

SOVEREGN
That nice mellow finish
Comfortable to wear —
Good to look at —Every
SOVEREIGN HAT
is guaranteed.
Your Hatter should have it.
Ask him.
DAVID STOREY & CO.
LIMITED,
SYDNEY.
(Wholesale and Shipping only.)
mm
HHHj
Sr'
-
i/
'l
m
m
m
i'i i ■ 111, ii, 1 1; i; 111 i IVI vviVr' i'm 111 ii i m ntrn rVvnTTfmnrfmi in! in 11 firm
The Bulletin
Vol. 48.—N0. 2476.
See page 36 .
Thursday, July 28, 1927.
Price 6d s
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.


W 1 THIN THE SHADOW,
By MAURICE 0. GROOM.
A book devoted to Australia’s problems.
6/- (Postage 3d.), ALL BOOKSELLERS.
YV7RITE for the 1927 New Library Cata-
logue, which is now ready and will he
sent post free with full terms and particulars
on application to • *
DYMOCK’S BOOK ARCADE, LTD.
428 George Street, Sydney.
Duradestos
BUILD WITH
Build an everlasting Home, by using Durabestos
(the Wunderlich asbestos-cement Sheeting) to
line- the Exterior and Interior Walls. This material
cannot burn nor rot. It is cheaper than
timber, and does not need painting.
Stocked by leading suppliers of build-
ing materials. Write us
for free booklet D. 4.
WUNDERLICH LTD.
Baptist Street, Red fern
Sydney
/<
K
sm
Sc? -
PURE IRISH LINEN
Direct from the Manufacturers!
dfgd
PURE IRISH LINEN 1
SHEETING
Hard wearing Pure Irish
Linen Sheeting, made from
pure flax yarns. Made
almos' laundry proof by a
special process of bleaching-
assuring extra long wear.
72 ins. wide 90 ins. wide
per yard per yard
4/3 5/6 J
BUY your Irish Linen direct from
Robinson & Cleaver, Belfast—
you save the middleman’s profits and
obtain at a moderate price the finest
products of Ireland’s looms.
HUCKABACK TOWELLING
Hard wearing Pure Irish Linen Huckaback
Towelling. Wonderfully strong. Suitable
for Roller, Lavatory or Face Towels
18 ins. wide -j / 24 ins. wide -f /Q
per yard ■*■ /" per yard */ &
HEAVY CREAM DAMASK
Heavy Cream Pure Irish Linen Damask
by the yard. Will become White after a
few washings. Very special value
54 ins. wide A/O 70 ins. wide C/D
per yard **/ “ per yard **i ** ’
Write for FREE Catalogue.
Our beautifully Lustrated Catalogue of fin* Irish Linens,
together with Samples, will be sent post fret • Ask for !\o.SSD,
ORDERS OF OVER £10 CARRIAGE PAID BY PARCELS POST
TO DESTINATION, OR BY STEAMER TO PORT OF LANDING.
ROBINSON &C LEAVER
NORTHERN IRELAND,
Irish Linen
Manufacturers
The Home of
Irish Linen
ElPLUM
K
s
PN
H
..The morning shave is never a trial if you use a PLUM,
the razor that shaves close, clean and sweetly smooth,
no matter how wiry your beard, however tender your
skin.
Black Vulcanite Handle - 12/6 each.
Xylonite Ivory Grain Handle 15/6 „
Real Ivory Handle . . . . 21/- „
Satin-lined Double Case free with pair of razors.
Seven Day PLUM Razor Sets:—
Black 85/-; Xylo, 100/-; Ivory 140/-
. per set of 7 Razors.
Each razor set ready for use and guaranteed and kept
in order for two years free of charge.
PLUM Razors are supplied in two widths; fin. and fin.
-Post-paid Prices-
PLUM Razor Strops, ready for use, 10/6, 12/6, 15/6
each. Post Free.
CRAIG AND AITKEN
654 GEORGE ST SYDNEY
HUDSON’S EUMENTHOL JUJUBES
Contain no cocaine or other poisonous drug. Suited for old and young. For Coughs,
Colds, Sore Throats, Bronchitis, Influenza.
\\WhS
mnm’iws
ro^
h u
SON
What the Medical World says:—The Lancet :
“Proved to be as effective baxrterieidallv as is
creosote.” THIS REPORT FROM THE' “LAN-
CET”-LABORATORY IS UNDOUBTED EVIDENCE
of the VALUE OF EUMENTHOL JUJUBES as aa
ANTISEPTIC.
I/O a Tin.
Sold at Chemists, Grocers, Storekeepers; or
Post Free from the Sole Manufacturers —
Hudson’s Eumcnfhof Co. ltd., Sydney,
«n receipt of 1/6 in stamps of any Province.
The Red Page
More Lions on Two Legs
I remember Oscar Wilde vividly. He was
just beginning to push himself into London
literary circles, but, judging by the refer-
ences to him which 1 heard, he was generally
considered a “bounder.” Henley loathed
him, yet the man aroused his—shall we say
curiosity? He was always interested in
the “coming-on” men. Wilde was even
then rather unwieldy, rather tall, flabby-
faced, pale, with prominent teeth, long
straight hair (Ellen Terry a few years
later said that, he had “curled his hair to
match his curly teeth”), flat-footed, walking
slowly and ponderously, and filling up the
narrow passage between Cassel’s offices, never
budging an inch as he strode along to let
anyone pass him, wearing a wide cape and
a flowing tie. His eyes were certainly
attractive, dark and luminous. He spoke
in a melodious drawl, a long-drawn mono-
logue, but evidently not brilliantly, for I
remember nothing of what I heard him say.
This was before the wonderful plays won
him the fame he longed and posed for, and
the wealth he squandered.
Another man who spoke very slowly in
short, jerky sentences and in a lengthy
monologue was Edward Whymper, the
wood-engraver, who had made his name as
the climber of Mont Blanc; a short, stubby
man with short, dean-shaved face, like a
pug dog’s. He had just been appointed art
director at Cassell’s, but reigned a very
short time. A very different person was his
brother Charles, a writer of ephemeral stuff,
who was slight, with straight features,
pointed beard, and suave manner.
About this time it was proposed to pub-
lish an illustrated edition of Topper’s awful
early-Victorian “poetical” work’, “Proverbial
Philosophy,” a true representation of the
sanctimonious twaddle that disgraced the
English literature of the period immediately
preceding this glowing time of the literary
and artistic revolt of the ’eighties. I was
told off to collect 'from the huge stock of
wood-engravings which Cassells had accumu-
lated those I thought suitable as illustra-
tions. Tupper called on me to learn the
firm’s plans, and he stood in the doorway
of my office and looked at me silently, his
card having been sent in. I rose politely
and, addressing him as “Mr. Tupper,” asked
him to sit down. He drew himself up with
an impatient gesture—ho was short, with
curly dark beard and curly long-hair and
wore the inevitable cape of the “poet” but
a silk “topper” hat—and said: “Mr. Tupper!
Would you say ‘Mr.’ Gladstone, ‘Mr.’
Tennyson? My name is Martin Farquhar
Tupper.” I meekly said, “I beg your
pardon.” He came in but did not sit down,
and when I showed him the group of the
old pictures he waved his hands in horror
and. departed. All I heard afterwards was
that, he had expected new illustrations and
that the publication was abandoned.
Another fussy little man was John Ruskin,
I was looking in the window, one midday,
of the photograph-selling establishment of
Spooner in the Strand, when a short, slight
man, with frock-coat buttoned tightly, a
small hooked nose, pouting mouth and re-
ceding chin, short side-whiskers low on his
jaw and long reddish hair, stood beside me
as I looked at some fine large photographs
of the Swiss Alps. He asked me what I
thought of them, and when I addressed him
as “Mr. Ruskin,” he said “You know me?”
and I replied that I had heard him the
previous evening lecture at the London
Institution. He was very chatty in Iris
ponderous way and told me about* the Alps
and many other things, most of which I have
forgotten. I did not tell him that I drad
thought his lecture very flowery, but inter-
esting.: However, I did say I had read many
of his Looks and remarked on their litterary
style, and when I told him I wished to be
a writer as well as a publisher, he was very
, genial and encouraging.
I met Robert Browning at a matinee
performance of a play founded on
“L’Arlesienne.” He was accompanied in
his box by two ladies, one of whom was
his friend Mrs. Sutherland Orr. On the
following Sunday morning I was in Hyde
Park, watching the fashionable “Church
Parade,” and saw him again, sitting
alone on one of the green chairs. I went
up to him and he invited me to sit beside
him. He said he liked to look at the
‘ pretty ladies’ promenading with their
beaux, and. we sat there “quizzing” the
swells, he making witty observations and
generally behaving in a rather skittish
manner, occasionally clapping his fat thigh
with his short hands in their violet kid
gloves. Surely there was never a less
“poetical” mannered poet.
Lovable and genial in a quiet .and serious
way was G. F. Watts, the great artist, whose
studio I often visited on Sunday afternoons.
Sometimes he would look down from the
gallery above, and if he saw me alone
would come through and chat, asking me how
I thought his new picture, “Ariadne at
Naxos, was coming on,” or the big eques-
tnan statue of “Energy” (a youtßi on horse-
back), which he was moulding in plaster in
an annexe, a sort of bush-house off the studio.
I asked him why he expected irrti to criti-
cise his work when Leighton, Filde s, Prinsep
and Alma Tadema lived so neaiand he
said they never discussed his rvork with
mm. Not that I ever ventured to do more
than ask lnm questions. He painted with
stubby, worn brushes with dry juaint from
which most of the oil had been squeezed
out. I did discover for him that the right
foot (which was curved) of the figure on
the horse was shorter than the left and he
remodelled it; at any rate, I saw the foot
one day sawn off and lying on the floor 1 .
He was a dear old man and was well nick-
named “Signor.” Very different was the
bluff Millais, whose handsome wife had been
the wife of Ruskin, but was divorced in a
friendly way; a shrewd businesslike woman.
Burne Jones was gentle, but full of quiet
fun, slight and sleek in appearance, with
long straight fair hair and beard. He had
a crazy little organ in a gallery above his
studio, on which lie would piav before work,
to “key himself up,” as he once told me.
Professor Richard Owen was another of
my lions, but he was also a friend, for my
grandfather in Sydney (Dr. George IJen-
nott) often corresponded with him about;
t lie Australian native fauna, then little
known in England. I would often A’isit,
him at his cottage, Sheen Lodge, in Rich-
mond Park, lent to him by the Queen. He
would talk, to me about natural history
and show me wonderful things, and some-
times would break off suddenly and say
with a laugh, “Now tell me about your
actresses,” for I was always a lover of the
theatre and knew several of the leading
lights.
EDWARD A. VIDLER.
The Bitey Book
To anyone who remembers the days when
a “bitey” was a real terror— : some of us
never get over the idea of the balefulness
of “bities”—R. J. Tillyard’s The Insects oj
Australia and New Zealand, (Angus and
Robertson) will be .a revelation of the'
‘numerousness of our little friends, their
family affairs and the things they do. What
Gould did for the birds of Australia Tillyard
has done for its insects and those of Maori-
land.
In his dedication (“Omnibus qui in mini-
mis mira natures perquirunt”) fire author
sums up, perhaps even better than in his
preface, what the object of the book is;
but the first paragraph of the latter gives
it in detail:—
The present volume is intended primarily
as a text-book for use by students of entomo-
logy in Australia and New Zealand, second-
arily for those who have a genuine interest
m the Insect Life of these countries. Of
many good arguments in favor of dealing
with the insects of Australia and New Zea-
land in a single volume, the chief seems to
me to be that the New Zealand fauna is in
itself so incomplete that a book on it alone
would not give the student a fair knowledge
of the extent and variety of insect life that
exists in most parts of the world. In Aus-
tralia, on the other hand, all the principal
groups are well represented. Thus the New
Zealand student can learn from this book,
•not only the large number of important types
of insects missing from his own fauna/but
also the relationship that exists between the
Australian and New Zealand species of fami-
lies common to both; while the Australian
student will have his interest stimulated in a
related fauna of which lie knows ait present
all too little, and at the SaMc time may
gather something of the effect of the intro-
duction of a considerable pumber of Aus-
tralian insects into New Zealand.
And he says that the limits of the work
are only “obviously those of space.” From
one _ who is so intimately acquainted with
“bities” it is more' than interesting also to
learn what an ‘insect really is*—-
, The insects form a class within the great
1 hylum Arthroppda. which contains all those
invertebrate animals Graving a segmented
body provided with paired segmented appeu-
dagos. The distinctive characters of the Class
Insect® are the division of the body into three
regions, the head, .thorax and abdomen, of
which the head carries the organs of masti-
cation and the principal sense organs, the.
thorax the organs of locomotion, viz., three
pairs of legs and generally also two pairs of
wings, and the abdomen the Organs of diges-
tion and reproduction. ’ ) .>y
The book is too vast in its scope to be
grasped by the hurried reader, but alb
through its pages even such a one "will be
continually dropping across intensely inter-
esting facts. In Chapter V, for instance,
which has to do with the order Tliysanura
(Bristle-tails, silver-fish), one meets -with
the Oldest Inhabitant of the insect world.
“This order contains those species which
are generally considered to be the most
primitive of living insects. Pa 1 a>outo 1 ogi ca 1
evidence of their great antiquity will prob-
ably never be obtained, as, owing to the
delicacy of their integument, they have
left almost no fossil record except in
1 ertiary Amber. The recognition of their
primitive condition rests entirely upon the
absence of metamorphosis coupled with the
close agreement of their structural details
with those that are considered most primi-
tive in the winged insects.” So the special-
lsts of this Page may realise where the
‘ny m the amber” comes from, and that
their own order—that of the hookworms-
is nothing of an upstart. And it is cheering
to know that “introduced silver-fish
(Continued on page 5,)


MTHOMY
Ui
«» Tl
i-"\
wst
««<sss;
2®;
Wi
IMi.
'ICT
Mf
v't&A
mm
immsLm*
A design Suitable for Every Room.
British Linoleum Squares
British Linoleum Squares
The beauty and elegance of expensive carpets is embodied
in these All-British Linoleum Squares. There are
designs and sizes of untold variety, offering examples for
every room in the home. Make a selection while the
range is unimpaired. They are extremely easy to keep
clean, for only a light mopping is needed to make them
spotless. These genuine Sale reductions create unrivalled
values.
No. 1 Quality—
Printed Linoleum Reduced
Anthony Horderns’ offer a most complete selection of
Printed Linoleum in every style of design, including
Parquet, Tile, Floral and Matting effects, in almost every
successful combination of colorings. 6ft. wide.
Usual Price. Reduced to
No. 1 Quality .... .7/3 6/11
No. 2 Quality .... 6/11 ' 6/6
No. 3 Quality .... 5/3 4/11
Prices are per running yard.
Inlaid Linoleum Savings
Inlaid Linoleum, 6ft. wide. For places subject to hard
wear nothing i£ so satisfactory as Inlaid Linoleum.
Anthony Horderns’ Stock includes a large variety of
designs in every style and color. Marble effects may be
had in super-quality. Parquetry designs in natural wood
grain effects, having the beauty of a rich Oak floor at a
fraction of the cost. Straight-cut tile effects offer a wide
choice of designs in three qualities. Colors go straight
through the Cloth, thereby ensuring a perfectly clean
wearing surface.
Usual Price. Reduced to
No. 1 Quality ' 1 7/3 16/6
No. 3 Quality .... 12/6 12/-
No. 4 Quality 9/3 8/11
(Floor coverings—Fourth Floor. We do not pay carriage on floor coverings.)
Anthony Horderns -
Postal Address: SYDNEY. Box No. 2712 C G.P.O.


V
&
JL
T!
The New Studebaker Standard
Six Duplex Phaeton . • NOW
£393
<5 htNtw
STUDEBAKER DUPLEX
Otudebaker alone offers this unique two
purpose car. On sunny days, an airy
open car. Yet in a few seconds, without
leaving the seat, side enclosures concealed in
the hood can be rolled down. Then this
New Studebaker Duplex is completely
enclosed—storm-proof!
When the storm passes, the roller sides slide
up just as quickly and easily.
This unique body is mounted on the ruggedly sturdy
Studebaker chassis, cradled on extra long springs and
balloon tyres, protected by powerful, positive four-wheel
brakes. Beneath the bonnet is the famous Studebaker
L-head engine, a triumph of vibrationless performance
because of its crankshaft fully machined on all surfaces
and assembly parts accurately matched to weights of
perfect balance.
Enjoy a trial run in the new Studebaker Duplex with us.
Learn from experience how thoroughly it meets the
most exacting demands.
To-day, more than ever before, knowing motor-
ists with discriminating tastes, «:/< o want a
really fine car and know how much they should
pay for it, are making their selection from, the
Studehaker-Erskine line of fine quality cars.
The Ershine Six — Siudebahe/s New Wonder
Car, is now on display. This little Aristocrat
of Motordom offers entirely new standards of
small-car stamina, comfort, performance and
economy. See it in our Showrooms.
New Reduced Prices of New Studebaker Quality Cars*
Open Cars from £373 to £675. Closed Cars from £453 to £Bl5.
New Reduced Prices of New Erskine Six Fine Small Cars:
Erskine Models: Tourer, £293. Sedan, £353.
West Australia and New Zealand excepted.
STUDEBAKER BUILDS ONLY FINE QUALITY CARS .
Australian and New Zealand Distributors:
Studebaker Corporation of Australasia, Limited, 165 Elizabeth Street, Sydney.
I urner Brothers, 396-400 Swanston Street, Melbourne.
Canada Cycle and Motor Agency (Q) Limited, Creek and Adelaide Streets, Brisbane
Duncan and Fraser, Limited, 42-48 franklin Street, Adelaide.
Sydney Atkinson Motors, Limited, 41-45 Pier Street, Perth.
Island Motors Proprietary Limited, 76 Murray Street, Hobart.
Adams, Limited, 152-154 High Street, Christchurch.
Local Dealers at all important towns
WMB4S


Easiest of all to Operate
ssm
m
cc
D.J. SUPER-SIX
With One-Dial Control
55
for
£4/10
deposit
One-Dial Control is simplicity itself—just turn the knob
to tune-in to your chosen programme from any Australian
or New Zealand station working on juort-wave length.
There is no tinkering round —no distortion throug in-
accurate tuning—you can switch straight through m a
fraction of a second.
The “D.T. Super-Six” is a King Quality Neutrodyne, encased in a hand-
some maple cabinet. It is supplied absolutely complete with the lg
p-rade -ccessories —valves, speaker, aerial equipment everything lea y
fotsld The price is ,£45 cash, <* 1°” ' ake de ‘‘ Very °" Fy
of £4/10/- deposit, the balance at 17/3 weekly.
We invite you to test the simplicity of the one -
dial control yourself in our Radio Department
22 York St., or write for further particulars.
DAVID JONES’
For Service —Sydney
( Lepismatidce) do considerable damage in
both countries to wallpapers and books,
but the native species are harmless, being
mostly bark-feeders.”
Our old friend the White Ant has a
fascinating chapter to himself, and so have
many other orders which we know best
by their colloquial names. In Chapter
XXIX, which deals with fossil insects in
Australia and Maoriland, we come across
the oldest Australian insects. “It was not
until the Upper Permian that conditions
in Australia first became favorable for the
reception of a land fauna. The first terres-
trial animals known to have existed in Aus-
tralia belong to this period and the earliest
known insects are those discovered by Mr.
John Mitchell (late principal of the New-
castle Technical College, N.S.W.) in the
Upper Permian coal measures of Belmont
and Newcastle.”
But to the general reader the last chap-
ter of the book will have a peculiar interest
of its own, since in it we are able to study
the bug-hunter himself in the same way
that he studies his little friends and vic-
tims. What the author does not know
about hunting down these unfortunate crea-
tures hardly seems to be worth knowing,
and he is most lavishly generous in bestow-
ing his information upon those for whom
the book is primarily intended. We get,
for example, little tips like this: “An ordin-
ary umbrella is preferred by many to the
sweeping- or beating-net. The umbrella is
inverted beneath a bush or branch of a
tree, which is then beaten vigorously with
a stick. Many insects feign death and
can be bottled at leisure, but others attempt
to get away quickly and may be very
difficult to capture in this manner. The
umbrella has the great advantage of its
wide diameter as compared with that of
the net, and the insects which fall into it
are easy to see.” And he leaves nothing
out concerning the best ways to prepare,
preserve and look after specimens.
Too much cannot be said for the way in
which the publishers have done their job.
We have had many instances of late years
of the sound Australian patriotism that
stimulates this firm in its publishing activi-
ties, and its imprint upon this kind of book
is a guarantee of the book’s worth. The
printing of the plates—and especially of
the eight beautiful colored plates by Mrs.
Tillyard—is very fine indeed. The author
acknowledges his wife’s good work in this
respect, and thanks her for it, which all
who see the book will consider to have been
the very least he could have done.
J. H. M. ARBOTT.
The American Renaissance
America is indulging in a renaissance. It
is not. of course, a renaissance of sounds.
The history of her art is not old enough
for that unless she takes her way back to
the incantations and croons of the wigwam.
At present in her poetry and in her music
she is turning more to the moderns than
to the redskins. It is a pity. Even though
the bar of race separates the American of
to-day from the Sioux of yesterday, the
bond'of the land is there, and in the return
to the spirit of the Indian lies America’s
chance of distinction in the field of letters.
Ireland has achieved an Anglo-Irish litera-
ture from the welding of two idioms. It
is true that in her case Gaelic was still the
spoken language of a large section of her
people, but this achievement of a distinc-
tive art goes past even language. One must
be able to say on reading a lyric or hear-
ing an air, “That is English!” or “That is
French!” for the art to be national. It is
a mysterious thing that makes such recogni-
tion possible. It defies definition. One might
call it the feel of the land.
America has many vivid and original
poets to-day. Their names fall like beads
from a string—Yachel Lindsay, Sara Teas-
dale, Margaret Widdemer, Carl Sandburg,
Robert Frost, Francis Carlin, Aline Kilmer,
Lisette Reese, Robinson, Bregy, Benet—
not to mention Irish and English poets
who have drifted there. Padraic Colum
has crossed the Atlantic. So have Joseph
Campbell and Theodore Maynard. And
their very presence illustrates more clearly
the absence of a definite “feel of the land.”
Maynard is triumphantly English. Camp-
bell is impenitently Irish. With the excep-
tion of Skinner, who sings Indianwise, and
Vachel Lindsay, who occasionally recalls the
Congo, there are few Americans who do
not follow European models. Free vorse
is a freak, and not considered seriously by
the true writers of America, even when it
becomes distinctive as in the hands of
Amy Lowell.
It is characteristic of a practical nation
that its first renaissance should be of things.
In every American journal one reads adver-
tisements of Americana. Hergesheimer is
commissioned by the Saturday Evening
Post to write a series of stories round the
subject of curio-hunting and “colonial” col-
lections; and interesting reading they make,
leading one back to the days of charters
and patents when the Crown claimed hope-
fully its fifth share of possible minerals
in new settlements and occasionally two
Indian arrows. The Maryland charter con-
tains some such curious provision.
It is a most fascinating renaissance. All
the riches of old America are sought for
in odd places—pewter, silver and glass. It
must be remembered that the Elizabethan
period is one of the most ornate in history.
England, from being a country cousin, an
ignorant little islander, was amassing capital
from her ventures in wool and other com-
modities at a rate that alarmed the Vene-
tians and the Genoese who came m their
long slinky galleys to take away some ot
that wealth in exchange for luxuries ot
glass and jewels and silk. English gallants
to travel abroad. Anyone who was
anyone had to see Italy. Houses were
built of glass mostly, window on window
as in that model of Sir Paul Pindar s, built
in 1600, and now in the South Kensington
Museum. There seems to be some connec-
tion between prosperity and glass. Modern
America outwindows the Elizabethans.
Actual colonisation did not take place till
the days of the Stuarts, but lavishness still
prevailed. Buckingham, the favorite of the
first two of the line, literally shone. His
doublets were encrusted with jewels. The
later Stuarts, to whom America owes a
greater debt, were influenced by the over-
blown splendors of Louis Quatorze.
Those to whom America seems a Puritan
refuge will wonder what this has to do
with an American renaissance. America
is not a Puritan outpost. Its wilder, sterner
north was Puritan. Its settlers had eaten
the bread of bitterness in Holland, and its
upright, pesky descendants still breathe the
bleak air of Cape Cod; but there was
another America of proprietary colonies
ruled by royal favorites as petty kings, and
the America of the richer Puritans like
Winthrop and Lyon Gardiner. Allyn
House, demolished in 1826, has not the
fretwork nor the shine of an Elizabethan
mansion, but it was solid and dignified.
The costliness of these flat American
spoons and these American Hepplewhite
chairs and Chippendale cabinets is due to
that long struggle between English mer-
cantilist, and colonial trader. .These
colonials venture to think that they ha\ e
as much right as Englishmen to set up
manufactures,” wrote one irate upholder ot
the Navigation Acts, those Navigation Acts
that the New Englanders so successfully
flouted. The Mercantile theory demanded
that the colonies export the raw product
and receive it manufactured. There were,
of course, two sides to the story. Colonial
goods received preferential treatment, but
this veto on manufacture galled a bold
people. In spite of the prohibition manu-
factures were attempted and New England
built its own clippers and artisans worked
on plainer models of English furniture and
English silverware.
These are the articles, age-englamored,
that are being sought to-day. Models ot
old clippers that sailed out of New Vork
in its knickerbocker days; spoons that were
in use not so many years after Anne Hutchin-
son met her death on Long Island; silver
plates that the Spaniards made in the days
of Pizarro and Cortes; old Dutch warming-
pans from their first farms along the Con-
necticut; chairs that were drawn round Vir-
ginian tables during these conferences on
the Civil War situation; snuff boxes pre-
sented by the Stuarts but unpaid for,
American Wedgwood; and American glass.
America empties her purse for such relics.
In the mere recounting of them, history
passes by. She gathers pellmell into her
apron what is left of Roundhead, of Cavalier,
of Spaniard, of Dutchman; the age of
Charles Stuart ; and looks round in panic
lest, she have left the gathering too long.
EILEEN DUGGAN.
“The Term of His Natural Life”
The sardonic Fate which almost sent de
Lisle to the guillotine to the strains of the
“Marseillaise,” dragged “Rule Britannia” out
of a masque and sent British troops marching
a long way to Tipperary when the objective
was Berlin lias given “For the Term of His
Natural Life” a place as an Australian
classic. It was written grudgingly, under
the promptings of a shortage of cash and
the desire for a holiday, by a man who was
not an Australian by either birth or sym-
pathy ; and its .characters are merely English-
men in exile. Kingsley’s “Geoffrey Ham-
lyn,” with the true pioneering of Australia
as its theme, measures much more closely
to the classical standard.
Marcus Clarke came to Australia at the
age of 17, after the death of his father, who
was a barrister; his uncle was a County
Count Judge in Victoria, and him the
youngster joined. His first job, as a clerk
with the Bank of Australasia, finished
abruptly when the manager, from whom he
had asked a holiday, remarked acidly that
the Bank would suffer very little if he made
the holiday permanent. He thereafter
gathered experience in the bush until Dr.
Lewins discovered him and found his graphic
pen a job on the Argus; but that finished
abruptly, too, after he had written a notice
attacking a singer he disliked over his
singing of a song usually in his programme.
As the song was omitted on this particular
night the fat was in the fire and Clarke
was out of a job. He was, however, still
welcomed as a contributor to the Argus
until the Age decided to chance him —with
little success.
A couple of ventures into paper manage-
ment on his own account were even less
successful. Humbug had a brief life; the
Colonial Magazine (Australians were
always “colonials” to Marcus Clarke) lasted
long enough for his “Long Odds” novel to
run through it. It was in this story that he
made a colt win the Oaks; when the book
was published in London, in 1870, the race
was altered to the Two Thousand Guineas.
Considerably associated with the stage—his
wife was the actress Marian Dunn —he
wrote several pantomimes also; “Twinkle,
Twinkle, Little Star,” staged at the Royal
in 1873, was the best of them. Tt was an
age when pantos, had local flavor, and the
job of furnishing the book .provided local
writers with a little cash- —sometimes as
much as a whole £25.
It was not altogether Marcus Clarke’s
fault that he wrote the book which has
given his name its place in Australian litera-
ture. After the Australian Journal had
provided the expenses for the Tasmanian
trip which got him out of a very tight
corner in Melbourne, its proprietors found
it hard to get the serial from him, even after
the first chapters had been published. He
had more than once to be locked in a
room with ink and paper and a threat that
the imprisonment would last until the job
was finished. The book was published in
1874; its author lived only seven years
more; he was but 35 when he died.
The author’s own dramatisation of his
book was a dismal failure; yet “For the
Term of His Natural Life” has been a regu-
lar feature of the Australian stage for the
50 years since the original was published.
Alfred Dampier had an actable version;
but probably the best for stage purposes
was that run by the Leitch and MacMahon
Company, with the Reverend Meekin made
a star part for Leitch. r l he book has been
the basis also of at least three film pictures.
Almost as many stage stories are attached
to “The Term” as to “East Lynne.” Every
“heavy” in the days of “heavies” was
ambitious to play the brutal Gabbett. It
was one of Edmund Holloway’s favorite
parts. Harry Douglas loved it too —he told
me how he' coated his lips with red paint
so that, when he bit the arm of Veitch, a
huge red blotch, like torn flesh, was left
behind. “Every night,” said Douglas,
“women were carried, fainting, from the
hall It was an artistic triumph—an artistic
triumph!” The Majeroni Company pro-
duced the play in Auckland Opera House
with staging which caused the critics to
declare that Bland Holt had been eclipsed.
E. Leader Williams was responsible. The
rescue of Dawes and Sylvia was the climax
of a magnificent scene lull of rolling seas,
over which the rescuing vessel came in full
sail, and went about. The old-fashioned
sailing ship was ablaze, from bow to stern,
with electric lights! J. B. Fitzgerald, long-
dead, provided one of the best stories.
Fitzgerald, as Captain Blunt, had to order
the preparations for rescue when the Hy-
daspes was seen to be on fire. It was a
season of nightly changes, and in the second
bill, “East Lynne,” Fitz. was a railway porter
in ’ a well-staged railway smash scene.
W hisky may have had something to do with
it; at, any rate, this night the train and
the ship got mixed. “Ha!” he exclaimed—
“ What’s that noise? Heavens, the em-
bankment has given way! Unless the turn
is stopped there will be a terrible accident!
Then he forgot all about the business of
waving red lanterns. “Burn a blue light
from the port bow!” he ordered. Lower
the boats! Now then, who volunteers to
man them?” _ , , , , r
The filming of Marcus Clarke s story by
a firm with selling agencies in America and
elsewhere will undoubtedly bring the book
a new public; it is unlikely that the oppoi-
tunity of making revenue out of an out-
of-copyright good-seller will be overlooked
by the keen business men of the book-
printing trade.
HAMER.
A Satchel of Books
4 foot in England, by W. H. Hudson
(Dent). Collected from the various papers
and periodicals to which they were co’i-
tributed by this tine lover of nature. One
of the volumes in “The Wayfarer's .Library.
Beethoven, by W. J. Turner (Bonn). The
author, a distinguished musical critic m
the old land, has brought to his work a
faculty of psychological analysis as well as
a technical knowledge of music that, ex-
plains the subtitle of “The Search for Real-
ity.”
Cavour, by Maurice Paleologue (Bonn).
A translation from the original French by
lan F. I). Morrow and Muriel M. Morrow.
Cavour, “the architect of United Italy, was
“a singular compound of daring with astute-
miss • of Machiavellian realism with liberal
idealism; of hot passions with an almost
inhuman coldness of intellect.” It will be
interesting for future generations t<> com-
pare him and Mussolini. “In truth, says
the author, “Cavour was a dictator. But
his dictatorship partook of a singular not
to say paradoxical—nature, in that it was
exercised through persuasion, and with the
most complete regard for constitutional
forms, and in strict accord with Liberal prin-
ciples ; he never either sought or used a
method other than that of public discussion
under the authority of Parliament.
The Convict of To-day, by Sydney A.
Moseley (Cecil Palmer). The author, who
in “The Truth About Borstal dealt with
juvenile offenders, now extends his inquiries
into the English prison system applied to
adults. lie was given special privileges by
the Prison Commissioners and found great
internal changes made and in process of
being made. The convict’s reformation rather
than his punishment was becoming the prin-
cipal object; but—‘“When I leave here,
a prisoner said to me, I shall be absolutely
at a loose end and Cod knows what is going
to happen to me.’” The Governor of Dart-
moor Prison wrote as follows: After-care
is the thing. Put all energy in keeping men
out of prison. When a man comes to prison
he is damned. The better Ins social position
the greater his handicap. He is an outcast
on release.”


Use Cutieura
To Heal Slight Rashes
Before they become serious
skin troubles. Bathe with Cuti-
cura Soap and hot water, dry gen-
tly and anoint with Cutieura Oint-
ment. Daily use of Cutieura Soap,
assisted by the Ointment when re-
quired, keeps the pores active and
the skin clear and healthy.
Soap Is., Talcum 1 5.3 d., Ointment Is.and
2s. For sample Soap and Ointment ad-
R.Towns & Co., Sydney, N.S.W.”
Cutieura Shaving Stick Is. 6d.
fg
Bb Brass Corner, solidly and accurately
constructed by Couesnon, of Paris. The ideal
instrument for the beginner— easy blowing,
remarkably full tone, and precise intonation
at a moderate price.
Complete with Bb and A Sha ks, card-
holder and mouthpiece, in
strong wooden case. Price
jna ks, cara-
-80/-
Postage extra—Victoria 21-. other States 3/8.
Descriptive Catalogue of Cornets, etc., on
request.
OBTAINABLE FROM ANY MUSIC.DEALER.
OR DIRECT FROM
KUVi [4 +5
ZIZ Lit. Collins St.
_ cMelbourne.
t Men ordering pleare mention the pa her. \
If any illustration in The Bulletin takes
your fancy, write to the Manager, who will
quote you price for the original.
RUPTURE
is Dangerous
This condition, no mat-
ter how slight, should
never be neglected.
m
OUR IMPROVED AIR CUSHION APPLIANCE
is the latest scientific discovery for
this complaint, and is guaranteed to
hold a rupture firmly and comfort-
ably under all conditions. We give
you a straight deal and offer A FREE
TRIAL WITH EVERY APPLIANCE
that we send out. Write at once for
FREE ILLUSTRATED CATALOG.
WINSLOW & CO., 104 Queen St., Melbourne, V.
Springy,
lightweight,
comfortable!
Surprising the flexibility and
ease of Abbey crepe-soled
Sports Shoes, made of rich-
colored tan willow, punched in
the latest smart pattern.
From the first time on they
are comfortable. The design
allows unhindered movement
of every muscle of the foot.
No tightness over the instep, no
slackness at the ankle. And the
rubber sole is sewn to a strong
leather foundation that holds
the shoe in shape.
Order by Post
Your fit can be supplied
easily. Abbey Sports Shoes are
made in half-sizes—each half-
size in three fittings, narrow,
medium and wide. Specify
width when ordering.
r/b per pair
ABBEY
Established over 80 years,
313 George St. and 224 Pitt St.,
SYDNEY.
L. 30
M A
NEWS
I
c (Dfie
‘Mexican’
Riding
Boot'x.
29/6 <~Pair
Made fo our own exclusive and
patented design (Reg. 559 8)
Has two-fold trapped Tops—
Buckles closely round ankle-
tits any grass
seeds and sand getting into the
Boot Black Calf-Black Wal-
laby-l an Calf. All sizes. Tost free
PIKE BROTHERS
LIMITED
In Queen Street, Brisbane
Ihe Cigar of generous size and weight
Supreme in flavor and aroma.
At all good hotels and
tobacconists.
6d.
ICi _ Box prices: —
10 Cigars, 5/6 (posted 6/-)
r n ” 12/ " i posted 12/6)
I(>n ” <P°sted 23/9)
JUU „ 40/- (posted 46/- )
Sampler Box, containing 2 Cigars,
I/- Post Frc’.
m
m
m
m
i
■
CRAIG and AITKEN
SYDNEY
DISTRIBUTORS FOR
CLUB REIL CIGAR FACTORY
VARIOUS VERSE
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Meadow Flat.
1 he roads are long and winding, and the dis
tant hills are blue,
It s the kind of sleepy hamlet where there's
nothing much to do ;
The inhabitants foregather and they talk of
this and that —
It is common knowledge there the world re-
volves round Meadow Flat.
It is mentioned in the guide-books, but the
chances are the name
ill elude you on the roadways when you’re
searching for the same;
lou may journey six full Sundays till you
think you smell a rat,
But God willing on the seventh you will
come to Meadow Flat.
When the long road twists and tumbles down
the steepest hill you’ve seen
lo a sleepy, shady valley where the grass is
smooth and green,
Where the tail trees whisper secrets and the
river croons—you’re at
The drowsy little hamlet that the world calls
Meadow Flat.
The cattle laze and ponder as they wander
round about,
And the nights are soft and mellow when the!
, twinkling stars come out;
It s a land of peaceful slumber—and you’re
mighty glad you’re at
I he drowsy little hamlet that the world call?
Meadow Flat.
N.S.W.
GILBERT MANT.
The Great Red Heart.
They erred or lied who glibly said
J he heart of this fair land was dead;
A hundred millions yet unborn,
From Darwin down to Capricorn,
I ro™ Capricorn to Derwent-tide,
Will know they either erred or lied.
I I or be they brown or be they white
The Singers of the South will write
Some day of garden and of field
Where now the lonely sheep-walks yield
f*ut meagre living in the years
Of struggling saltbush pioneers.
Brave Stuart of a time gone by
Beheld it with far-seeing eye:
lie kept his faith despite the stress
1 lie heartbreak and the weariness;
He guessed the future we behold ’
In purple promise slow unfold.
They erred, they lied, they could not se
And even yet small souls there be
\Vho dwell in fog, who wag the beard.
W ho mumble from their mouths, afeard
Ot “dreary waste” and “desert heart’—
rhank God, at last they ride apart
A spavined, mean and sorry steed,
A crock of cheap, imported breed!
I shall not sec the winning-post;
But this I know as well as most
-that, white or brown, this continent
I>y God or Nature was not meant
io be a theme for “desert” schools,
Much less a paradise for fools.
This, then, the burden of my song •
O Children of the South, he strong'
careless hands shall keep the prize;
O Children of the South, be wise!
Be earnest to the work in hand;
She calls, she calls, our native land!
Her heart is red. Believe, believe,
leave these meaner souls to grieve
Behold the Star of Hope afar,
And hitch your waggon to the star!
±o wm is fine; to lose no shame :
Be up, be up, and play the game!
W ith farm and field, with axe and plougl
Be up, be up, and doing now!
throw wide our gates to white men all
And by our standards rise or fall •
Ihe tongue w e speak, that hold we dea:
May stand to us ten thousand year!
Oh. could I but your souls inspire
W ith honest patriotic fire,
cou ld I but your minds impress
With good Australian earnestness,
Vi, 171 my work was fully done
And lay me down at set of sun;
Beneath the forest, near the sea,
1 d lay me down contentedly;
And. if perchance in death there comes
A distant echo of the drums,
It death be dreaming for us all
And fighters hear the trumpets call,
I’d know, despite the drums of Fate
ihis great red heart, with Life pulsate,
mV as I K,urjll S' out a racial blood
That ever yet the East withstood,
And ever yet since Marathon
Has carried on, and carried on.
Be done with fooling, done with lies!
Come up, ye sons of Austral skies
Take counsel now and forward face.
A\ ho thinks at all, he knows the case:
A thousand million aliens stand
Between us and the Motherland!
Beneath the forest, near the sea.
I'd lay me down contentedly
Tf I but thought, if I but knew
The words I’ve writ this day to you
Were not as chaff to mad winds thrown,
A crazy fancy of my own.
VICTORIA.
E. J. BRADY.
The Victor.
j When Francis died the seventh hell
Was opened for his soul;
•Ojd meek he was, for it was well
To taste of pain and dole.
The sin was in his burning mood
That might not know content,
So straitly bound about with good
Jlis heart could riot repent.
As slowly he went down the stair
Like some sad autumn day.
Bed. walking on the lawns of air.
Stooped low to hear him pray.
‘‘Ford grant,” he said, “that I may burn
My seven ages due;
And after to the earth return
To sin my sin anew.”
Then, with a sudden iron clang,
Hell’s door was heard to close;
And long the dulcet trumpets sang
As Francis softly rose.
The little earth in green and gold
Was seen in Heaven to shine;
And God’s voice through the brightness
rolled—
“ His law has vanquished mine.”
N.S.W.
DAVID MCKEE WRIGHT.
The Broken Lyric.
She had bright eyes that mocked the world;
But did you see her lean
Out of her window by the lake
To the bright water’s sheen?
(I swear old Merlin magicked her
When the young Spring was green.)
O lady of the lonely fire
With now dark-shadowed eyes
Beyond all loving or desire,
You walk your road of lies,
A. singer in a lonely choir
That death and Hell defies!
I was her gallant serving-lad
And she my kindly queen.
I swear old Merlin magicked her
When the young Spring was green.
MAORILAND.
BFTTIE RIDDELL.
Youth.
Oil we went up and we went down along the
windy ways,
Beneath the singing of the trees, through all
the summer days;
We heard the wild bird pipe his song, we
heard the wild wind call,
[ util the summer took the birds, and leaves
began to fall.
Oh we went up and we went down beneath
the leafless trees;
And though the wine had lost its joy we
sipped unto the lees,
And dreamed that summer lived again, that
life was young, and still
Lay just beyond the little path that wan-
dered o’er the hill.
Bleak winter came, with bitter jests upon
his noisy tongue,
And through each starless night we heard
his rousing paeans sung,
And woke to gaze with listless eyes upon his
work; and then
'Che spring came smiling up the hill to wake
the hearts of men.
And summer and the birds returned, and
through the green-robed trees,
With songs of love and warmth and life, the
w'hole day sang the breeze;
And we went up and we went down upon the
winding track.
But nevermore throughout the years did
Youth come laughing back !
VICTOEIA.
PHILO.
Song For a Modern Little Girl.
Husha, the sun’s adrown in the coral-colored
west.
< 'ome, cuddle close, cuddle down, with the
one who loves you best,
With a love no tide could ever stay, that
cannot e’er be known
Unless, perhaps, you have some day a tiny
girl of your own !
Sweet it is at story-time to watch the rising
moon ;
But days of play and nursery-rhyme pass,
pass too soon!
And you must be up and going when the
longed-for summons comes ;
Eyes bright and colors showing will answer
the distant drums—
For women are warriors, too ; and there is
this comfort, sweet,
Tf ever the willing heart of you should flag
with your weary feet,
Never need you march alone, for there will
be comrades to hail
With courage and creeds to match your own,
and aims that cannot fail!
For every ship that ever sank, for every
theory worn,
Men built others, plank for plank, and better
truths were horn ;
My dear, keep faith in your goal’s far gleam;
there will be brave, fine joys
When childhood spells but a golden gleam
and a heap of broken toys !
QUEENSLAND.
E. M. ENGLAND.


Mothers! Protect Your Home with
Rexona —The Rapid Healer.
1
m
mm
i§
m ■
mm
LITTLE MISS ALMA MATCHETT.
“I feel very grateful to Rexona for the
way it cured my daughter of a troublesome
rash, I had tried everything, but nothing
seemed to do her any good until I used
Rexona. The result was magical, and within
one week she was completely rid of the
rash.”
Mrs. E. MATCHETT,
I/18 Grafton Stfeet,
Woollahra, N.S.W.
|)limmfh
05
S? /
»v~
Cooling
.Soothing -
Healing
Antiseptic Ointment
n,trifles J) Absolutely
* ° Heals Reliable
>
THE RAPID HEALER
jT~A fcM* Healer for all
and Irritations of the Skin. Eczema. Sores, Culs ™
Burns Bruises, Sores. Sciatica. Piles. Stings of Insects
and all kinds of Inflammafion
REXONA DEP 7 SHELDON DRUG C° ITPl T P SYDNEY.
THE TRIANGULAR BOX'
A Medicine Chest
in Itself!
Mother is the home doctor; every day she is
confronted with some kind of little hospital work
-r— either a cut finger, a rash, bruise or burn. She
must be prepared by having something handy
that she knows she can rely on, and for that
reason she should always have Rexona, the
Rapid Healer. Rexona is a complete first-aid
cabinet in itself. It cleanses and heals, and
quickly gives relief from aches and pains. See
that you get the genuine Rexona, the Rapid
Healer, in the triangular box.
I <LUCS
LITTIjK MISS MARJORIE RYAN.
“For some considerable time
my little girl was sorely troubled
with a skin eruption, which I
found most difficult to eradicate.
After using many ointments with-
out avail, I used Rexona Ointment,
and after a short period she was
completely rid of the rash.”
Mrs. T. RYAN,
2 Francis Street,
Bondi, N.SAV.
MASTER JACK
CUNNINGHAM.
“My little boy, Jack, met
with a very bad accident
through a wall collapsing on
him, earning half of his foot
to be torn away. I used two
small tins of Rexona on his
foot, and it has completely
healed.”
Mrs. CUNNINGHAM,
Union Street,
Pyrmont, N.S.W.
mm
mm
. m
Rexona —The Rapid Healer
Small
Size
1,6
LITTLE MISS MAUD
ALDERSEA.
“I consider Rexona the best
ointment there is. My little
girl was so badly burnt about
the body, arms and legs, 1
thought she would not live.
For three months she was hope-
less, until I used Rexona, and
it is due to Rexona that she
is not a cripple. I will always
look on Rexona as a life-saving
ointment.’ 1
Mrs.
A. ALDERSEA,
Neerim East, Vic.
rA
J
Family
Size
31-
LITTLE GODFREY CLARK.
“My little boy suffered
terribly with sores on the head,
i while cutting his first teeth.
J used Rexona Ointment, and
after the first application the
sores began to get better, and
in a few days he was as right
as ever.”
Mrs. R, CLARK.
Taylor’s Arm Road.
Via Mac!;sville, N.SAV,
/
*


df
Mtu.
i mm. '!
41/ S -« 'i x X V
«* f ‘ 1 * , . ~c
M f'h'flr j * \ I
im %» <■»*& " •> .-I •. ; *
». SEPPEtr & SONS UMiTi®^
South Australia j|L
-3
gdf
g


The Bulletin
Vol. 48-—No. 247 G.
July 28, 1927.
THE NEW JUSTICE.
“The Industrial Commissioner (Mr. A B. Piddington) has declared a rural basic wage of £4 4s. per week for N. S. Wales without calling witnesses, He announced
that it was necessary to make a declaration before the end of August, so, time being limited, he would make the declaration frist and take evidence as to what was a
fair thing afterwards."
"I got to flog yer, though the Court says it won’t have time till next week to find out whether you’re guilty or not."


The Bulletin
THE NATIONAL AUSTRALIAN NEWSPAPER
“Australia for the White Man.”
Printed and published by William Macleod, of
Musgrave and McLeod .Streets, Mosman, for The
Bulletin Newspaper Co., Ltd., at the Office of. the
Co., 214 George Street, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia.
Melbourne Office: 114-120 Flinders Street.
London Office: No. 1 Wardour Street (near Picca-
dilly Circus), W.l.
PUBLISHED ONCE A WEEK.
TERMS TO SUBSCRIBERS
(In Advance only).
Posted to any address in Australasia, weekly:
12 months, £ 1 J,s.; 6 months, 12s. 6d.; S months, 7s.
To any address Overseas: 12 months, £1 10s.; 6
months, 15s. 6d.; S months, Bs.
Cheques, drafts, etc., which sh'ould be crossed, and
all Business Communications to be addressed to the
Manager.
Special Notice.
Alt correspondence to be addressed to Box 2521 8.8.,
0.P.0., Sydney.
Insufficiently stamped letters are liable to be
refused.
The contents of this paper are copyright by the
publishers. The right to reproduce i or translate any
part of the contents of this number is hereby expressly
reserved by the publishers.
The Editor will carefully read and, where practic-
able, acknowledge in the “Correspondence” column
all contributions submitted, whether in the form of
Political, Social or other Articles, Verse, Short Tales
or Sketches (those dealing with Australian subjects
and not exceeding two columns in length, or, say,
SOOO words, are specially acceptable), Paragraphs,
Letters or Newspaper Clippings. All communications
will be regarded as strictly confidential.
The Bulletin will return all unsuitable MS. when
the address is specified and stamps are enclosed. But
no MS. will be returned or preserved unless these
conditions are observed. When MS. is forwarded
without stamps for return it will be understood that
the copy is to be destroyed if not acceptable. Per-
sonal applications for return of MS. cannot receive
attention. Further, Tiie Bulletin desires those
sending MS. to distinctly understand that it is not
responsible for the preservation or transmission of MS.
To Amateurs in Black and White.
Anyone supplying to The Bulletin original
humorous or other topical drawings in line or wash,
of sufficient merit and interest and adapted for
direct reproduction, or any interesting photograph
illustrative of a current event will be paid for same
on acceptance. Any picture containing a good idea
but unfitted for direct reproduction —i.e., any picture
which has to be re-drawn—will be paid for as a
suggestion only. The conditions under which such
artistic contributions will be received are those
applying to M.S.
To Travellers Abroad.
“The Bulletin’s” representative in London is
h. St. C. Grondona, No. 1 Wardour Street
(near Piccadilly Circus), W.l. Copies .of
“The Bulletin” can be obtained from him or
tlie bookstall in the Main Hall at Australia
House. Also from Messrs. Gordon and Gotch, lo-
ll> Farringdon Street, London, E.C.4.; and IP. Daw-
son and Sons, Cannon House, Breams Buildings,
London, E.G.I/.; E. T. Hole, Bolerth Satire Ser-
vice, 46 Fleet Street, London E.C.; “The British
Australian and New Zealander,” 414-17 Australia
House, Strand, London, 1 V.C.2; F. Algar, 58 Grace-
church Street, London, E C. 3.
South Africa. —The Central News Agency, Cape-
town, Durban and Johannesburg; Dawson and Son,
Capetown and Johannesburg ; Havana House, Durban;
Rhodesia News Agency, Salisbury; Benoni News
Agency, Benoni; Handel House, Kimberley; and
others.
Canada. — G. S. Forsyth and Co., 441 Hastings
Street, Vancouver, B.C.
U.S.A.— Chicago: J. Boland Kay Co., 161 East
Erie Street, N. Michigan Boulevarde; Post Office
News Co., 33 West Monroe Street, Chicago. New
York: Brentano’s, sth Avenue 'and 27th Street, New
York City; Schultz News Agency. S.E. Corner 6th
Avenue and 42nd Street, New York City; Hotaling’s
Neivs Agency, 203 West 41st Street, New York City.
Washington: Liberty News Co., Seattle, Washington;
Wheatley News Co., 704 Market Street, San Francisco;
Wallace, The New Orleans News Man. 105 Iloyal
Street, New Orleans, La. ; The Wide World News Stand,
541 i South Main Street, Los Angeles, Cal.
Egypt. — Jacques. Horn and Co., the Colonial
Book and Neivs Stores, Port Said, Egypt.
Hong Kong. —Brewer and Co., 606 Redder Street
Hong Kong.
China. —Brewer and Co., 31 Nanking Road.
Shanghai, China.
Penang, F.M.S.— K. Abdul Rahman, Bookstall,
Eastern and Oriental Hotel.
Ceylon. — T. L. De Silva, SO Chatham Street,
Colombo; Plate, Ltd., Bristol Studios, Kandy.
Papua. — Whitten Bros., Samarai and Port Moresby.
Fiji. — A. Barker. Suva; Harry Gardiner, Metropole
Hairdressing Saloon, Suva.
Overseas Advertising: Representatives.
London. — L. St. C. Grondona, No. 1 Wardour
Street (near Piccadilly Circus), W. 1.; Gordon and
Gotch, 75-79 Farringdon Street. Tjondon. E.C.4.
U.S.A.— J. Roland Kay Co.. 161 East Erie Street,
N. Michigan Boulevarde, Chicago.
Postage Rates.
Single copies of The Bulletin (registered as a
newspaper): — Commonwealth, New Zealand and Fiji;
10oz., Id. United Kingdom: 4oz. to 10oz., lid.; each
additional 40z., Id. All Sea Route: 160 z.. lid.
British Possessions and U.S.A.: 4oz. or part thereof
Id. Elsewhere. 20z.. Id.
ffuT^izlletZoi.
THURSDAY, JULY 28, 1927.
A VERY SUDDEN COURT.
The Industrial Court which sits in Sydney,
giving other people’s money away with
very little regard for whether they have
it or not, lately embarked on a new
lightning-streak of usefulness. The Presi-
dent (“Good old Piddo”) delivered a judg-
ment fixing the basic wage for male rural
workers at £4 4s. per week, and announcing
that the female fixture would follow; and he
did this without hearing any evidence what-
ever as to the possibility or otherwise of
the amount being paid out of the proceeds
of the industry. The explanation given was
that the matter had to be decided by Sep-
tember 30, and the date being July 20
there were only 72 spare days ahead, in-
cluding Sundays, wherefore burning haste was
essential. Any suggestion that the Court
rnight at least allow legal representatives
of one of the parties to state their argu-
ments received short shrift; in fact, the
Court seemed almost in a bilious mood that
day. Inquiry is to come later with a view
to possible amendment of the award, and
presumably it is expected to be a monu-
mental inquiry to which 72 days, includ-
ing Sundays, will be only a drop in the
bucket. But any attempt to revise the wage
rate downward after it has become a sort
of vested interest will be difficult; in fact,
steps are already being taken to push it up
from that starting point.
* * $
Four guineas per week certainly don’t
constitute too high a wage if rural industry
can stand it under existing conditions, which
are stupid, clumsy and freakish and cry
aloud for alteration. Unfortunately, possi-
bilities, rural or otherwise, don’t trouble some
legal gentlemen who sit on city benches giv-
ing judgments in a hurry. The smaller rural
industries (farming of all sorts as distin-
guished from the raising of wool) are pre-
carious things in Australia’s precarious
climate, and values wobble a good deal
according to the vagaries of a distant
market. In 1923-24 the N.S.W. crops were
valued at £32,883,000, on the spot where
they were produced; and as it was the best
year save two in the State’s experience, it
looks like giving “Piddo” a favorable start
to use it as evidence. According to the
Statistician’s record of the number of
workers employed in the industry, and mak-
ing an allowance based on his figures for
casuals, the total was equivalent to 150,000
whole-timers aged 14 years and upwards.
The result would be about £219 per head
even if all the money for the year’s crops
was available for the wage fund, which it
certainly wasn’t. Against this the remark-
able Piddington has fixed a basic wage of
£2lB Bs. per annum, with 3 per cent, added
for child endowment in many cases. This
certainly seems like cutting matters fine.
* =i= * *
But the Statistician adds another calcu-
lation about the wheat-grower with 250
acres Of land, of which 20 are used to provide
horse feed. It allows in the first place for
seven items: Interest on the money in-
vested in the land or interest on the mort-
gage; interest on the money invested in
plant; repairs and depreciation; bags, cart-
age to rail and seed wheat. He reckons that
these items absorb more than half the value
of the average crop, and if £45 per annum
is added for “extra help,” they absorb a
great deal more than half. Making no allow-
ance whatsoever for interest on money in-
vested, but allowing £45 for “extra help,”
there are years.when the other items eat
up half the takings of the farm. There are
other years when they don’t, but there are
not enough of these other years to blow a
trumpet about. The cow trade is under-
stood to be on a much worse wicket than
the wheat industry, and when the 15,000
or so females employed about the milk
animal have their wages fixed, it must be
worse still.
**• * *
It is all a difficult business for which to
legislate in a paternal spirit, and very differ-
ent from manufacturing. Even if the Indus-
trial Court had developed a genius for regu-
lating factory industry, which is hardly the
case, that might not help it much with the
new problem. As one point of difference,
about 50 per cent, of agriculturists are work-
ing proprietors, pursuing an unsteady indus-
try in which the entire takings are sometimes
swallowed up by bags, fertilisers and sun-
dries, while about 95 per cent, of the factory
class are employees in pretty steady indus-
tries, and have no bags or fertilisers on
their minds. _ One anticipated result of the
new order of things will be the reduction
of rural employment. Another is that many
employers in the less favored districts, see-
ing no dead-sure prospect of half a basic
wage for themselves, will become soured
and sell out to the squatter, if there is one.
It is a thousand pities that the Industrial
Court couldn’t snatch time to get at the
main facts of the case so that it might have
delivered a closely reasoned judgment.
There is a great desire to know what a
closely reasoned judgment might look like.
A BOB IN AND THE WINNER
GOVERNS.
Since the N.S.W. National Federation be-
gan to choose candidates for the State elec-
tion many Nationalists have discovered
flaws in the system of pre-selection by
small bodies of more or less obscure persons
called electorate councils. When the thing
was challenged during the Federal by-
election for Warringah, the entire body of
official Nationalists sprang to its defence
and the half-Priministers hurried over from
Melbourne to take command. These days,
however, it has as many assailants as
defenders, and the language of some of the
assailants is distinctly impolite. Tom Hos-
kins, M.L.A. for Western Suburbs, alluding
to the fact that members of electorate coun-
cils are enrolled at a shilling a head and are
rarely numerous enough to fill a small bar,
says the system is merely an adaptation of
“a bob in and the winner shouts." Hos-
kins’s electorate, like all the others, has
been cut up into single constituencies;
though he has represented the Dulwich Hill
subdivision for many years, he has been
jostled out of the nomination in favor of a
comparative novice in politics, J. T. Ness.
The same thing has happened to H. V.
Jaques, one of the few Digger Assembly-
men, in Bondi. Jaques has been M.L.A.
for Eastern Suburbs, of which Bondi is
part, since 1920, and at the 1925 poll he was
the first Nationalist elected (there are five
members), with 12,468 votes, Miss Preston
Stanley being the third Nationalist elected
(she had been beaten in 1922), with 9995
votes. Yet an “electorate council” with a
membership of 12 has ordered the senior
Nationalist member for Eastern Suburbs—
a maimed returned soldier at that—to make
way in Bondi for the junior Nationalist
member; and the Nationalist executive has
endorsed the monstrous proceeding.
* * $
In other neighborhoods also, senseless
things have been done. For once in a way
a considerable number of candidates with
abilities above the Nationalist average
offered themselves, believing that the party
bosses were in earnest when they said that
“Nationalism” needed new blood—as it
tragically does—and that their variety of
pre-selection would give everyone a fair
spin. With very few exceptions—and those
only in cases where the incumbent volun-
tarily retired or sought a nomination
elsewhere—these aspirants have been
turned down for the Old Gang. In
a number of instances they have gone
away from the hole-and-corner meet-
ings at which these matters are decided
feeling bitterly that they have been “had”
—that the cards were stacked in such a way
that they hadn’t the slightest chance from
the beginning. Those who have warrant for
this conviction are fairly entitled to appeal
from the alleged electorate council to the
electors, as Jaques and Hoskins have
announced their intention of doing, and it
is to be hoped they will. The party bosses
will, of course, assert that the Nationalist
vote will, in that case, be seriously split, but
this is very unlikely to happen anywhere;
on the other hand, if electors who usually
vote Nationalist, the vast majority of whom
do not belong to the organisation, are re-
duced to a choice between a member of
the Old Gang, thrust on the constituency
by the machine, and a Labor man with
more ingratiating qualities, a large propor-
tion will most probably vote Labor or not
vote at all. (One or other of these courses
will assuredly be taken by hundreds of
Bondi Diggers should Jaques be forced out
in the end.) Although preferential voting
will be optional, and not compulsory, as at
Commonwealth elections, people have got
into the habit of casting contingent votes
and will continue to avail themselves of the
privilege for the most part. Queensland
experience shows this. In that State, where
optional preferentialism has obtained at the
last three general elections, not one seat
has been lost by the anti-Labor crowd
because of vote-splitting; and, strange as it
may seem to the machine bosses, the anti-
Labor crowd has done better when the elec-
tors had a comparatively wide choice than
when there was, in the jargon of the party,
“united action against the common enemy.”
In Cunningham, for example, at the last
election but one, an anti-Labor candidate
polled 2481 primary votes, the Labor man
2094 and a second anti-Labor candidate
1229. The latter’s ballot-papers were found
to contain 1084 preferences, of which the
other anti-Labor nominee got 1012. There
were parallel cases in Dalby, Nanango and
Lockyer, each of which seats was held with
ease.'
* * . *
There are Nationalists who say “We don’t
like pre-selection, but it is necessary to
fight Labor-Socialism with Labor-Socialist
methods.” It is unnecessary to imitate
either Labor-Socialist methods or Labor-
Socialist measures; and, really, the main
trouble with N.S.W. “Nationalism” is that
it is a feeble copyist of both. Men vote
for it with the feeling that it is the lesser
of two evils, Labor-Socialism having gone
off its head. This feeling will probably carry
the party safely over the coming election,
but if it is content to be merely a pallid
reflection of Labor it will be horribly licked
when that party returns to its senses, as
some day, no doubt, it will.
ON A PEACE FOOTING.
The Yankee politician as represented at
the Geneva conference has a passionate-
desire to reduce the navies of his most
active competitors, one to his own level
and the other below it. In this connection
it may be noticed that the sea is the only
line on which our Uncle is open to serious
attack, and that he hardly ranks as a first-
class man on the water, though good
enough to knock out an impecunious Dago.
There has been no debate at Geneva about
the reduction of armies, though Uncle
keeps a very respectable land force. I lean
to the idea that it is better to be over-armed
than under-armed, and over-trained than
under-trained, and over-policed than in-
sufficiently bobbied, and to take the risk of
being led into aggression rather than the
hazard, if it can be avoided, of tempting
some other fellow into it. And there is no
doubt that money is better spent at home on
defensive precautions than sent abroad for
the purchase of fluff, gewgaws and liquor
things that tend to sloth and circum-
ference and stomach measurement.
One notable reason why only a limited
amount of attention is given to the historical
records of nations and tribes which made
insufficient preparation for defence is that
so many of them have disappeared. Not
all, of course. An instance which changed
the history of Europe for the worse, and
possibly did it for all time, is that of
Russia. In the dawn of its history, this
land, or so much of it as wasn’t forest or
permanent frost, was thinly occupied by
peace-loving Slavs, with a very thin smatter-
ing of intensely harmless Finns in the north.
The Slavs were much given to building
towns along their big rivers and they hustled
for trade with almost the assiduity of
Carthaginians. They saved trouble by in-
viting Scandinavian princes to rule over
them in a constitutional way. The country
came to be very much cut up under very
many princes, and veiy much ruled by city
assemblies, called together any time by
ringing a bell, and it was a really pro-
gressive country as progress went in those
days. Then the Golden Horde came sud-
denly out of Asia—men on swift horses,
with long-range bows and some primitive
artillery. The best kind of army which
Russia could raise at short notice perished
in a day,' and the population of the great
city of Kief was extinguished with all the
ingenuity that a Tartar could think of.
Then commerce ended, and the
subject princes became taxgatherers for
their masters, and many Slavs went on the
land by hiding in the forests and cutting
down enough trees to make room for a
crop.
When the Horde began to lose its punch
the land was won back by centuries of in-
tense struggle in which it became a habit
to commandeer anything and anybody for
the needs of the State. Poles and Swedes
and Crim Tartars and, when they arrived
on the scene, Turks all thought themselves
desirable successors to the Horde’s posses-
sions, and the war went on till slavery be-
came habitual. It is habitual still.
There is no reason to suppose that any
measure of disarmament, forbearance, fair-
dealing or Christian charity would have
kept Huns, Tartars, Arabs, Turks and their
kind out of Europe, or Danes and Saxons
and Normans out of England, or Irishmen
out of Scotland—or Germans out of Bel-
gium. And all these virtues failed to pre-
vent the Pilgrim Fathers and others in-
vading America, though the inhabitants
were forbearing enough and never raided
Europe once. It has been reckoned that
the inhabitants of the two continents
numbered as many as 60 millions when the
white man came. During no one knows how
many thousands of years they had crossed,
presumably by Behring Strait as a rule,
and trekked southward till a vanguard of
the ugliest even reached Tierra del Fuego.
Whether they had to butcher previous in-
habitants is not quite clear. It was natural
that a great many should settle in the
United States, it being a habitable land and
not exceedingly remote. These pre-Colum-
bian peoples varied widely, some being not
far removed from savages, while others were
builders of cities and temples and pyramids,
and scribes with a picture-writing of their
own. But they lacked the first essential
of defence, being infinitely more divided
than the Russians when the Horde happened.
Now there remain in Canada and the United
States, which comprise not very much less
than half the New World, about 450,000
of the old races, so the clearance has been
fairly comprehensive. It is the irony of
events that the American nations which have
smitten the Indian hardest are the most
prosperous, while those which have pre-
served him most carefully are backward,
and are often alluded to with supreme con-
tempt as “Greasers.” Having made a good
clearance of its own brown men, the United
States entered on a course of missioning to
other people’s black, brown and yellow men
which established a record, and landed it
at the top of the spiritual tree.
It is possible that disarmament will one
day be arrived at by one nation becoming
so heavily armed that it will be able to
disarm all its ill-prepared contemporaries
with great slaughter. Then brotherhood or
something will set in—probably something.
SOLOMON MALAPROP.
PLAIN ENGLISH
Naval Requirements.
The trouble at Geneva arises out of the
usual American misconception of what con-
stitutes naval defence, what there is to
defend, and how to do it. Broadly speaking,
a country’s own coasts and coastal trade
are defended by its Battlefleet, and the most
effective way of doing this is to seek out
and destroy the enemy’s Battlefleet. With
that done only “tip-and-run” raids, which
are not serious operations of war, become
possible.
But apart from Battlefleet operations
there is in wartime a constant attack against
overseas, as distinct from coastal, trade to
beat off. The Battlefleets being inevitably
reserved for each other, this war is carried
on by cruisers, armed merchantmen, and
anything else that comes handy. To protect
this trade, cruisers must be built, and the
number required would naturally be in
direct proportion to the length of sea-route
to be patrolled.
America at Geneva, arguing for equal
cruiser strength w T ith the Empire, made a
great point of the size and extent of its
own coastal trade, which is admittedly very
large; but the British representatives didn’t
think much of the argument, because coastal
trade is primarily defended by the Battle-
fleet. At Washington we conceded readily
that America was entitled to a Battle-
fleet equal to anybody else’s, in view of
its long double coast line and because even
if its coast were only a mile long it would
require just the same number of big ships
for its defence, the standard being not
really coast-length, but enemy strength.
It can be seen, therefore, that any two
countries “entitled” to have a Fleet at all
are morally entitled to have a Battlefleet
of equal strength to that of any other pos-
sible enemy.
Where cruisers for trade protection are
concerned, the differences between England,


America and Japan are obvious. America’s
overseas trade is confined almost entirely
to the Pacific and Atlantic Oceans, and with
South America. It hardly touches the
Indian Ocean, Mediterranean or Southern
Pacific, and its only overseas possessions
are the Philippines and Sandwich Islands,
the latter coming almost within the orbit of
its coastal services. England, on the other
hand, has vitally important trade routes in
the Indian Ocean alone which will require
patrolling and which are far more difficult
to protect owing to the longer open-sea
passages than on any route vital to America.
The British representatives therefore natur-
ally ask why America wants an equality of
cruisers, the only justification for which
would be aggression.
Britain is also vitally concerned with an-
other American desire, namely, that cruisers
should be built up to 10,000 tons. The effec-
tive protection of trade routes depends on
numbers far more than on size of patrol
ships. Two 5000 ton cruisers can effectively
patrol more trade route than one of 10.000
tons; in other words, two ships can be in
two places at once, whereas one cannot. To
protect our trade routes, we require, say,
100 cruisers, and we naturally object to an
arbitrary fixing of their tonnage at 10,000
when the same number each of 5000 tons
would do, and would cost only about half
the amount.
Does Somebody Want to Starve?
One of the reasons why Australia doesn’t
owe a lot more is that so many of its public
works have been done under contract by
people who had to say in advance how’
much the work would cost and how long
it would take. It isn’t practicable now, in
every case, to get work done like that.
Dorman, Long & Co.„ who are building
Sydney’s harbor bridge, have stipulated that
they are not to take any risks of the sort
that might be wished on them by a Labor
Premier who was pledged to reduce hours
and raise wages and who didn’t care what
happened so long as he redeemed that
pledge. Also they don’t take any respon-
sibility for strikes on the part of work-
people who are supposed to be disciplined
by various Arbitration Courts and Indus-
trial Commissions. But other employers
in the same line of business are not able to
take quite such a nonchalant view of things.
They have to stick to their contracts, more
or less, and they find it a hard job.
One of them, a joint-stock corporation
that has done a lot of work in Vic-
toria and other States, the Civil En-
gineering Construction Co., will be
advised by its managing director, R. D.
Elliott, when shareholders next meet, to
pull out for good. Elliott hasn’t got any
grudge against the Australian as a worker.
He reckons his men are as good as any
in the world. But he never has been able
to understand what the union bosses want,
and he never knows what they are likely to
want. All he knows about it is that there’s
no end to their capacity for wanting, and
that their ability to discover grievances
quite outstrips the ability of the manage-
ment to conciliate the potentates. Even
when all the unions he has to cope with
are professedly satisfied they get up a sort
of tong war amongst themselves; fitters
refuse to work with bricklayers, plumbers
sajr “Scab!” to riveters, and carpenters suffer
under an imputation of un-class-conscious-
ness at the hands of day laborers. So
Elliott is fed up, and will tell the co. that
it had better wind itself up.
An example of that kind is apt to prove
contagious. It may spread from construc-
tional engineering to other branches of the
metal trades—which are having troubles of
their own just now—and the time may arrive
when the typical union official will perceive
that he has jockeyed himself out of a job.
To harry the employer is good—according
to union ethics—even if it means that union
members have to lose a lot of wages in
the process; but to harry him right out of
business is to cut the union business off at
the meter. The next step is socialised
control of industry, with only the Govern-
ment. to bait; and the Redder a Government
is, the less inclined it is to put up with
baiting. To engineer a strike in a Govern-
ment. factory in Leningrad, for instance,
isn’t healthy for any comrade, even if he
can recite “Das Kapital”. backwards.
The Bolshie in the North.
On May 1, 1927, the cane suppliers of
South Johnstone sugar mill decided almost
unanimously by ballot to buy the mill from
the Queensland Government. The ballot was
the result of representations to the growers,
who were told that if over 70 per cent, of
them so desired the Government would sell
to them at a certain price. Ever since
the erection of the mill in 1916 they had
had so bad a spin that it was a foregone
conclusion what the result of the ballot
would be.
The mill, a big and modern affair costing
well over half a million pounds, has seen
during its 11 years’ existence more indus-
trial strife than any other works in Queens-
land. The employees have always looked
upon it as a “workers’ paradise” and have
done just as they liked. The result
appeared in the balance-sheet each year—for
the year 1925 a loss of over £40,000 was made,
while neighboring mills showed a profit.
The management found it practically impos-
sible to dismiss an employee, and the last
few years rarely attempted to do so. The
last Government manager told the indus-
trial magistrate at Innisfail that he had no
power to dismiss a man and repeated his
statement when questioned by the solicitor
representing the Cane Growers’ Association.
Naturally under these conditions the Bol-
shies rushed the place as a sort of general
headquarters, took control and, it is said,
even chose the labor required from time
to time.
When the farmers took over on May i
all the staff and mill hands had been paid
off by the Government, and the directors
of the new co. called for applications. The
manager chosen was an ex-C.S.R. official
with a backbone. Over 1200 applications
were received for about 250 positions in
the mill, and ih the selection a good num-
ber of the old hands were omitted. These
resented losing their old home with the fine
opportunities it offered and demanded they
should be re-employed. They so influenced
the selected men that the latter went on
strike on their behalf. The manager re-
fused to be told whom he was to employ,
claiming that the co. had the right to select
its labor. The mill was due to start crush-
ing on May 25, but was unable to do so.
Subsequently, after various abortive con-
ferences, the industrial magistrate found
that the management was within its rights
and ordered the selected men to report for
work. This finding of the industrial magis-
trate was upheld by the President of the
Board of Trade on an appeal by the A.W.U.
After the decision had been given, Mar-
tens, a member of the executive of the
union, told the court that he would en-
deavor to get the men to abide by the
Court’s decision—it was, he added, his duty
to do so. Notwithstanding this, the men
have not returned to work and have pre-
vented other men from working there.
The worst calamity is that Martens has
not been supported. Even the A.W.U.,
the strongest industrial body in Australia,
has apparently not had the pluck to put
these Innisfail men in their place. Or, if
it has not lacked the pluck, it has lacked
the desire. It is now up to it to declare
itself. Does it stand for the peaceful settle-
ment of disputes or does it stand for the
flouting and defiance of Courts and Commis-
sions? Does it affirm or does it deny that
an employer has the right to do what this
co. did in getting a staff together? In a
few words, is it pro-Bolshie or not? That
is what, in plain English, the A.W.U. must
answer.
♦
The Little Rumpus in Samoa.
As the Germans and the Americans dis-
covered, the Samoans are an easy people
to govern so long as white folk refrain from
telling them that they have grievances.
But when that happens—and it has hap-
pened at least once in the Yankee baili-
wick and more times than can be counted in
the Maoriland Mandate—there is trouble
and unpleasantness. One of the white men
who have been telling the Samoans that
they are downtrodden is Joseph Car-
rutiiers, who ought to know better than to
poke his nose into the affairs of a neighbor-
ing Dominion. When Carruthers was at
Suva recently he said that trivial matters
had been magnified out of all proportion.
But when he arrived in Auckland he said
that Samoa was “being governed by some-
thing worse than martial law, rather resemb-
ling Moscow’s methods,” and the Maoriland
Laborites, who heckle Coates and his Min-
isters daily about the poor oppressed
natives, hailed Carruthers as a comrade.
The matters at issue between George
Richardson, the military person who admin-
isters the Mandate, and his political critics
in Samoa don’t look overwhelmingly por-
tentous from outside. A group of traders
wants the form of government altered so
as to clip Richardson’s claws. He governs
at present with the aid of a Legislative
Council of nine Europeans, six of whom are
his own nominees, and a Fono of Faipules,
consisting of 33 natives representing as
many districts. The anti-RiCHARDsoN party
wants the natives represented on the Leg.
Council. Richardson says the natives
themselves prefer the present arrangement.
More practical matters are a grievance
against the Government because it buys
copra and pays a bigger price than some
of the traders are prepared to offer, and a
resentment on the part of many adult male
whites of the ordinance that prohibits the
retailing of alcohol. Then the brown people
have been told by the anti-RiCHARDSON
party that it is a sin and a shame that
they should have to pay a poll-tax of £1
a year to provide medical attendance.
There are 222 Europeans on the electoral
roll of the Mandate, and 150 of these lately
memorialised Richardson and wished him
more power to his elbow. Thus encouraged
the Administrator has been deporting chiefs
and threatening to deport malcontent mem-
bers of the Legislative Council, provoking
remarks about Magna Charta and Habeas
Corpus from the threatened individuals,
the Maoriland Laborites, and such talkative
onlookers as Carruthers. Nothing much
is likely to happen. Richardson will be
backed to the limit by Coates, who sent
Minister Nosworthy to Suva a few
weeks ago to make personal investigation,
and his assertion that a big majority of
both Europeans and natives regard his
administration with confidence is backed
up with a lot of prima facie evidence.
Twenty-five Imputed Locomotives.
The Queensland Government has added
£200,000 worth of locomotives to this
country’s overgrown list of imports, and the
Commonwealth has borrowed £1,300,000 on
its behalf in London so that it may have
the means to pay this and other bills. It
wanted £3,000,000, but other States and
the Commonwealth itself wanted money
also, and all the demands had to be reduced
a bit to keep the total down to £7,000,000.
The reduction was fortunate in a sense, for
John Bull’s public decided that the amount
was too high or the interest too low, and
the startled underwriters had nearly nine-
tenths of the responsibility left on their
hands.
The Queensland locomotives were wanted
by a fixed date, probably because some old
rolling stock was approaching its last legs,
and Australia, it is said, was quite unable
to supply 25 machines in time. This country
has, or in 1924-25 it had, 33,071 men em-
ployed in “engineering works, ironworks and
foundries,” and as that was 19 more than
the previous year’s figure, they were in-
creasing at the rate of nearly 2000 per
century. That was apart from agricul-
tural implement makers (5535) and railway
and tramway workshops men (26,345). The
total value of the output of the 64,951
persons engaged in these three skilled indus-
tries was £42,313,914. The total value of
goods imported under the headings of
“machines, machinery, metals and metal
manufactures” during 1914-25 was
£45,594,102; so it may be inferred that
there should be room for another 65,000
or so of well-paid employees in the lines
mentioned.
But the insatiate demand for shorter hours
and slow day-labor beats the rising tariff
every time. ’ The wages earned are far
from high according to Yankee piecework
standards, but they are evidently higher
than the industries can progress under in
present circumstances; and as the iron trades
show signs of preparing for further stoppage
and upheaval, progress may be again post-
poned.
With oceans of work running to waste, and
oceans of loan money going out to pay
for the products of other people’s work,
it is considered necessary to send constant
warnings to British folk not to come here
and help to pay taxes, because there is no
employment. Probably many British folk
stay away in consequence. But the appeal
has little or no effect on Maltese and the
like, whose knowledge of Shakspeare’s
tongue is limited.
* -♦
The Babu Press.
“Ibn el Issar” : Polyglot India, with its
thousand tongues and dialects, has long
since translated the ancient spoken word
into modern print. The “vernacular press”
is a commonplace in the cables when there
is unrest stirring in the Raj. It is doubtful,
though, whether it has the widespread influ-
ence ascribed to it, since the reader in
Hindi is not necessarily learned in Urdu
and the Moslem who likes to get his “news”
in Persian or Arabic is not greatly intrigued
with Tamil. But English of a sort has
become the latter-day lingua Franca of
India; and it is to the large and well-turned-
out newspapers published by natives for
natives in the English tongue, and taking
on a European format and method of ex-
pression, that one must look for the real
revelation of the spirit in which a section
of India, and that the most blatantly asser-
tive, regards the Briton in its midst.
The most important of these papers are
published in Bengal—the Bengal of the
Babu, who is the wood and water joey
of the Indian administration, and has yet
to prove himself fit for higher tasks. Yet
British backing and training, coupled with
his own amazing facility for assimilating
European ideas, as opposed to European
ideals, have made him the individual most
to be regarded by the upholders of the
Sirkar.
A typical example of a Babu newspaper
is Forward, a well-printed, well-turned-out
and moderately well-written daily pub-
lished in Calcutta. It is about the size of
the S. M. Herald, and, like that journal,
specialises in “matrimonial” and “wanted”
advertisements. Its political tone is no
less determined. It is “agin th’ Govern-
ment,” though in Forward’s case there is
only one Government to be dealt with
sturdily, and there are no intervals for
approbatory comment. It has regular
foreign correspondents; but here we must
shift the standard of comparison to the
Labor press, for these dwell, for the most
part, on the woes of the insulted Russian,
the cheated Irishman or the oppressed China-
man. Special space is given to those under
sentence of temporary banishment by order
of the British. Banishment not from India,
but to another part of the country, for
in this strange land a trip of 30 miles may
drop a man among aliens, foreign m
thought, speech, religion and, what is even
wors§, food and drink. One thinks with
bitterness, for instance, of the persecution
of Kali Prosad Bannerjee, a Brahmin of
Faridphur, exiled at least 50 miles from his
native soil for a trifle of seditious propa-
ganda. He is unaccustomed to the local
food, and an inhuman Government will not
even supply him with purgative medi-
cines “which he urgently needs.”
“Specials,” too, have their interest. One
lately was on the dress of Hindu women.
The writer has lived in Singapore, “and
never, on one single occasion, has seen a
Chinese woman with her modesty ex-
posed.” He thinks the Hindoo woman
“should wear an underdress which should
not only cover the upper parts, but will
reach right up to the knee—a similar sort
of thing which her European sister wears”
—a dirty dig at the modern flapper, on the
face of it!
News items arrest, if they are some-
times cryptic. For example, Hikalal
Benia has been declared a Goonda and
ordered to leave Bengal for 15 years. And
Munalal Lohia was fined Its 25 for
gambling on silver figures on Cotton-
street. A similar regulation in Australia
regarding tin “figures” would see a lot of
Pitt- and Collins-street notables Rs 25
the poorer.
The paper is full of fat advertisements
from great British banking, insurance and
commercial institutions. Forward and its
brothers of the Babu press may not have
much time for British aspirations, but they
have plenty of space to sell for the oppres-
sor’s advertisements.
+
The Bolshie Missionary.
The Moscow missionaries, who find it as
impossible to keep still as a cat on a hot
argument, have ostentatiously announced the
resumption of Red propaganda at Hankow.
That city once seemed to be practically
Communist territory; but the Moscow mis-
sionaries’ habit of putting fingers of dubious
cleanliness into every pie—political, military
and commercial—and paying themselves
handsomely for their services led to the mar-
auders being to a great extent pushed out.
After that the obtrusive interferences of
the cult led the Pekin authorities to raid
certain Russian premises, variously described
as the Embassy and as the commercial and
spying premises of the übiquitous Arcos,
Limited, and it is understood that heaps of
discoveries resulted. The other day the
Nanking Government got so wild at the
pawing of domestic affairs by the Musco-
vites that it organised a search of the
Soviet’s Far Eastern Bank, and after the
usual ton of compromising and incriminat-
ing documents had been removed the
premises were closed. The seizure of the
Arcos premises in London and the; dis-
covery there of sufficient to justify the
chasing of. the Russian diplomatic corps
off J. Bull’s premises was another evidence
of the habit of putting too much on paper
and leaving too much of it lying about.
The Moscow Communist has cast himself
for the part of world-pervading apostle,
but his clumsiness and ferocious rapacity is
a hopeless drawback.
Moreover, the Seventh Day or Jesuit or
any other missionary, in addition to doing
good works on earth below, promises his
converts a future Heaven above, and gives
the impression of being a firm believer in
it. The Bolshevik teaching is that there is
no hereafter, and that the only Heaven
is a temporary one right here. His Para-
dise is on view, and it looks rather like a
brothel or a nasty slaughter-house—and a
poor, low-wage one to boot.
One thing very striking about the Bolshie
is that he has made little effort to suppress
monarchies, tyrannical or otherwise, but
has labored mightily to extinguish free
institutions before they have had time
to take root. He didn’t obliterate
the Czardom in his own country;
what he did obliterate was the Republican
Provisional Government. Chinese im-
perialism was extinct, and Ah Sin was
trying his hand at a commonwealth—and
then Moscow butted in. Its doings in
Poland, Latvia and Esthonia were all fierce
attempts to impose itself on little com-
munities which had just attained to self-
government after ages of tribulation, and
were doing pretty well at the work. The
Hungarian republic was less than half a
year old when Trotsky’s friend Bela Kuhn
and his mob did their coup d’etat, and, as
a historian puts it, “for five indescribable
months wrecked the country.”
♦
The Australian Author.
Hot upon the discussion in The Bulletin
-on the indigenous authors’ lack of organisa-
tion comes the proposal of the Victorian
Booksellers’ Committee for an Australian
and M.L. Authors’ Week. On September
12, and for a week thereafter, literary
societies, luncheon clubs, young people’s
associations, etc., are to be requested to turn
their attention from the problem of Edwin
Drood and the home life of Charlotte
Bronte to Rod Quinn’s taste in ties and
Louis Esson's attitude towards the split
infinitive. Parsons and Sunday school
teachers are to be asked to lay aside the
text of the Good Samaritan and take up
the equally sound theme of Henry Law-
son’s “Mateship.” School teachers gener-
ally are to be begged to use read-ws by
Australasian authors.
Broadcasters, entertainers, librarians and
writers to the press are to be induced to
sing the same chant of praise; and book-
sellers are to be required for the duration
of the Holy Week to give Zane Grey a
back seat and display Bernard Cronin
in a prominent position. Pilgrimages will
be made to points of literary interest and
tributes laid on the graves of, or statues
to, deceased writers. Houses made memor-
able by the fact that Australian authors
once fried their sausages over the gas jet
are to have memorial tablets recording the
fact placed upon them.
It is an excellent idea. True, the author,
when he has torn the laurels from his brow
and cooked a chop with the illuminated
addresses, may find that the problems which
have always beset him are still sitting on
the doorstep. But it will give him a chance.
While the limelight is thick upon him, he
should form an association of his own. No
help is so good as self-help.


“The Australia”—Centre of Sydney
The “Australia” vestibule is the heart of everything.
Daily it is crowded by a gay and happy throng; at mid-
day on Saturdays it presents a scene you would have to
travel the world to duplicate.
Vestibule facilities include Flower, Sweet, Pharmacy,
Tobacco and Book Stalls, Theatre Booking and Motor
Hire Offices, and Postal and Telegraphic facilities.
Other “Australia” features include Ladies’ and
Gentlemen’s Hairdressing and Manicure Rooms, Safe
Deposit and Turkish Baths —open to the public.
Telegraphic Address: Amtraotel, Sydney.”
7
T |,e /1ustralia
(Paid-tiv Capital, £^22,100.)
THE HOTEL OF THE
COMMON W EALTH,
SYDNEY. ’
HEWSO
THE WONDER CLEANSER,
Removes TAR, GREASE, PAINT, etc., from your hands instantlv
in COLD WATER.
Unexcelled for cleaning BATHS, SINKS, KITCHEN UTENSILS,
etc. Removes RUST AND BURNS from SAUCEPANS.
Can be used as a BODY SOAP.
NO SODA.
Leaves Your Hands Like Velvet.
lid. PER Boz. TIN.
ASK YOUR GROCER, OR DIRECT FROM
GENERAL DISTRIBUTING CO., LTD.,
Wembley House, Railway Square, Sydney.
COUNTRY AND INTERSTATE AGENTS WANTED.
POLITICAL
POINTS
The Reds had things all their own way
at “Labor’s Unity Conference” in Sydney
Trades Hall. In flat defiance of the inter-
state Labor Congress, they declared the
Seale executive real and the Conroy execu-
tive bogus and reaffirmed all the decisions
of their Easter Conference, notably the
Caucus dictatorship conferred on Premier
Lang and the expulsion of Goodin and Gillies,
M’s.L.A. Charlton, the Federal Labor
leader, meekly accepted the repudiation of
the inter-State Labor Congress; Mutch,
M. put up a fight but finally said he
would bow to the verdict, being “too old to
rat” ; Minaban, M.L.A., declares that he will
have nothing more to do with a party which
has been captured by Communists; and the
Conroy executive talks of carrying on. It is
anticipated that the “victory” will be fittingly
celebrated at Nankin and Moscow when the
glad news reaches those parts.
The A.W.U., Australia’s finest big union,
isn’t running true to form. Whatever else
it has been it has never been a humbug or
a hypocrite. Yet at the moment in N. S.
Wales it is professing to be utterly opposed
to the Bolshevisation of the Labor party,
while in North Queensland it is standing
by and allowing itself to be Bolshevised.
The very things it denounces in Willis and
Garden it accepts from the men at Innis-
fail. Naturally enough the non-Australian
element is responsible in both cases.
Among the work stoppages or proposed
stoppages of a few very mad days were
the big Mount Lyell mine (Tas.), the great
Sunshine Harvester works and Robison’s
engineering works (Vic.), and about half a
dozen engineering concerns in N.S.W. and
S. Australia. The large pervading strike in
N. Queensland has apparently become
chronic. Union officials have declared in
many places that the strikers are acting in
defiance of positive orders, but as no at-
tempt has been made to suspend or expel
anybody for treating positive orders with
scorn, some doubts are expressed about the
veracity of union officials.
The unemployed who are suffering actual
distress in Perth and Fremantle are put
down at over 2000, and Adelaide has had
what is called “almost a riot’’ by reason of
lack of work and consequent poverty. On
reading the accounts it certainly seems very
like a genuine riot, though it was stopped
early. During the past six or seven years
S. Australia and Westralia spent loan money
more furiously in proportion to their popu-
lation than the worst of their neighbors.
There is fierce clamor in Perth to check
the immigration of people, who are customers
and taxpayers, but it would be much better
to check the immigration of goods, which
take away money and prevent local employ-
ment. One way to do that is to put the lid
down hard on foreign loans.
The chase after the elusive N.S.W. voter
grows intense :—-
The Minister for Local Government (Mr. Keegan),
having visited Daceyville No. 2, considers that the
purchasers are entitled to some redress on account
of a number of the dwellings being badly cracked.
He intends to confer with the Government Savings
Bank valuator on the question of reducing the pur-
chase price of the dwellings, which the occupiers
are paying off by instalments.
Daceyville dates back as far as 1912, aud
it was a cheaply-built place, the smaller
shanties costing down to £27G. So it is natu-
ral that signs of wear and tear should ap-
pear in spots, especially with an election in
view. Some people might call the idea a
grossly impudent proposal for buying votes
with public money, but some people are too
particular.
BUBBLE AND SQUEAK.
“Vic. Opposition-leader William McPherson says that the policy of the Labor Ministry since assum-
ing office has been a persistent purloining of bills and proposals originated by former Liberal and
composite Governments.”
Willie McPherson (to Lanky Hogan ): “Here, you put that down — them’s my
bubbles!”
When S. Aus. Senator J. V. O’Loghlin
died ex-Premier Barwell was appointed to the
vacancy at the customary joint sitting of the
State Parliament, though O’Loghlin was a
sort of Laborite and Barwell a sort of Liberal.
Now that C. S. McHugh. O’Loghlin’s team-
mate in 1922, has gone, the Butler Govern-
ment ought to return to the old sportsman-
like precedent and nominate J. J. Daly,
who topped the Labor poll in 1925. There
is no getting away from the fact that the
Senate has become a party House, and to
give one party five Senatorships out of six
when the S. Aus. electors decided it should
have three only would be abominably unfair.
Vic. Police Commissioner Blarney placed
himself in an awkward position when he
gave three public cheers for an anonymous
individual who presented £lOOO to the police
provident fund. Immediately after his
laudation had been printed Chief Sec. Pren-
dergast was heard remarking that he would
give no direct orders but he hoped the lar-
gesse would be returned to its owner. When
constables touting for an indigent colleague
solicit a few shillings from hotelkeepers and
suchlike persons who find „it advisable to
keep on the sweet side of the Force, they
are promptly suppressed. The fact, as stated
by Blarney, that the unknown donor is a
member of a leading Melbourne club doesn’t
alter the principle involved.
Victoria’s Hogan Ministry is making a
great song about the deficit which its Allan-
cock predecessors bequeathed to it. It
could hardly be more sorry for itself if
Mount Buffalo had fallen on its cottage home.
As there were 17 State deficits in the five
years to 1926, an Australian Ministry should
face the situation more philosophically. Any-
how, has no totalisator tax and
the smallest income-tax rate among the
States, so the position is far from hopeless.
But the Hogans lean to the simple idea that
the Commonwealth should “take over” some
of the huge liabilities attached to the settle-
ment schemes; in other words, that the
State should cease to pay the Commonwealth
interest on a large wad which the common
parent borrowed and sub-lent.
_ The Methodist Church’s northern mis-
sioned straggle spiritually as best they can
over ].500.000 square miles of Australia.
One Rev. Rentoul, back from the vineyard
for a spell, told an audience at Ballarat:—
In one district fully a third of the men and
women living together were not legally married, be-
cause there was no minister available.... He met a
woman who had never seen a minister before....
When two missioners were going to Wyndham, they
met two men waiting for them ; they said they had
been waiting 10 days, as the blacks laid told them
there was a car on the road. These men had been
prospecting for years, and had almost forgotten then-
own tongue.
In the other half of Australia there is a
city which is growing faster than Greater
London, and which reckons it can beat every
city in the British Isles for population bar
one. And there is a second which is not far
behind.
A farce in nine acts: —
(1) Piddington’s court declares a basic wage for
city plugs.
(2) Pid., off on a holiday, discovers a flaw.
(3) On the strength of Pid.’s basic wage, Lang
proclaims that Family Endowment shall begin July 1.
(4) Pid., to remove the flaw, returns and declares
the city plug’s basic wage over again.
(5) It is announced that the Family Endowment
will be all right now.
(6) Discovered that a basic wage for the city
plug isn’t a basic wage within the meaning of the
Family Endowment Act, there being rural plugs also.
(7) Family Endowment held up accordingly.
(8) Pid. shuts his eyes and declares a rural basic
wage without taking evidence.
(9) A basic wage within the meaning of the Act
having now been declared, Lang proclaims the Family
Endowment measure over again.
There is no Leg. Council in administration
to save the Fids, and the Langs. And there
won’t be in legislation either after Lang
wins the election—if he is allowed to win it.
One Dovey, lecturing in Sydney on 10
years’ experience of China, ascribed much
of the trouble there to the multitude of
moving-pictures, quite uncensored and many
of them quite rotten. When the Yankee
sends his pictures to Australia, which ought
to be’ making its own, he knows they will be
censored, in consequence of which he exer-
cises what he thinks is caution, yet there
is a large proportion of rejects. Asia
gets the rejects in addition to those which
weren’t worth trying on a civilised market.
Further, the Yankee film has a way of hold-
ing up Europeans, especially the British, to
contempt for Uncle’s greater glorification.
Even when the pictures are merely foolish
is it doubtful policy for white men and
women to do monkey tricks on a film to
make a Chinese holiday.
Amid a welter of explanation from the
Naval Limitation Conference at Geneva these
points stand out: Britain desired to limit
the size and number of the heavily-
armed leviathans which do the aggressive
work of war, but it wanted plenty of medium
and small vessels to protect the long trade
routes by which its food supplies conn 1 .
An island community which never has more
than seven weeks’ victuals on hand natu-
rally would. On the other hand, the U'.S.,
which has practically no food route to pro-
tect and could stand centuries of blockade,
wanted to restrict the number of minor ves-
sels and (in its original proposition anyhow)
to have no limit to the construction of 10,000-
ton cruisers. Whom Uncle expected to shoot,
either in attack or defence, with all this pro-
posed ironmongery, is a mystery, though at
late advices he was knocking spots off the
small republic of Nicaragua at a great rate.
Optional vaccination has for some years
been the law in Vic.; parents who declare
themselves conscientious objectors are not
obliged to have their children inoculated.
Health Minister Beckett now proposes to
abolish the last vestige of compulsion. The
late A. R. Outtrim, M.L.A., who was always
willing to take half a loaf if he could not
get a whole one, was responsible for the
Optional Act.
An Australian State Government will re-
sume almost anything except the habit of
meeting its external interest bill out of its
own revenue. In proof of this, this item
drifts over from Westralia :
The Government will probably ask Parliament to
pass a bill enabling it to deal with large estates
that are not being put to their full productive use.
If these properties were resumed and subdivided, it is
believed they would support in comfort many
hundreds of farmers.
At last return Westralia had 877,000,000
acres unoccupied or “occupied only by the
Crown,’’ and 219,000,000 acres let out under
lease or license. These make 95| per cent,
of the area. It had already spent
£16,413,000 of loan money on account of
"land purchased for settlement,” and as the
figures are a year old the amount is larger
now. That was one cause why the State
debt was £l6O 6s. 9d. per inhabitant, and
that amount is also larger now.
Practically everything except the tem-
perature is going up in N.S.W. to pay the
cost of child endowment with the increased
basic wage added, and as the money reaches
the Treasury some time before it reaches the
child the rise of prices is a good way ahead
of the endowment—in other words, the result
beats the cause in a canter. Another 6d. per
ton has gone on to the price of coal, which
should just about cover the coal-owners’ share
of the endowment bill (estimated at £250,009
a year), and with increased freights added
this won’t help the export trade.
IN THE DARK AGES.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“In December, 1841, when a proposal was before
the N. S. Wales Leg. Council to raise a loan in
London, a public meeting of protest held in Sydney
passed a resolution that a national debt was a
national curse, associated with heavy taxes on the
people. It was further decided to petition the
Secretary of State against all borrowing. ... In 192(5
Australia owed £500,000,000 apart from war debt.”
—Commonwealth Bank pay envelope.
It almost leaves a fellow in the dumps
To think, when good Queen Vic. was
young and fair,
What positively monumental chumps
Our rude forefathers were.
What utter want of foresight did they show,
What crass stupidity!—it sets one sorrow-
r .
The citizens who rose in wrath and woe
And damned it, that initial scheme to go
A-borrowing.
To, think that ninety years ago or less
Men could arise in this enlightened clime
To gird at national indebtedness
As something like a crime.
They couldn’t picture what return awaits
The loan which the financial pinch relaxes,
They dreamed no dreams of growing towns
and States,
Benighted souls! They only thought of rates
And taxes.
They lived their lives and did their work
and passed
Failing to dimly vision the amount
Of lOU’s required to turn our vast
. Resources to account.
Not theirs to grasp the mighty truth, poor
jays,
That talk of public works is mere flap-
doodle
And progress but a very empty phrase
Except you first send overseas to raise
The boodle.
Pipes they would smoke of clay and rum
imbibe.
Habits which nowadays provoke disgust;
Worse, they regarded all the Uncle tribe
With vehement disgust.
Strange to reflect our grand-dads could be
so
Timid and harbor such ideas pygmean,
And only eighty little years ago!
To us it seems, considering what we owe,
An aeon.
N.S.W.
T. THE R.


MELLOW
COOL
AND
ALWAYS
ALIKE
ARDATH TOBACCO CO: LTD: LONDON
THE BEST
CIGARETTES
FOR
YEARS AT
20 for 1/6
SOCIETY
"and it's
printed with
WIMBLE'S INKS”
“Keg”: Chinamen are generally regarded
as an abstemious race; but I knew one, at
Middle Brighton (Vic.), who would regu-
larly buy a bottle of squareface for himself
and his mates on an adjacent garden. Visit-
ing the latter one Sunday morning in search
of some material for salad, I found a bunch
of Chinks apparently well sozzled in a shack
that reeked of gin. “Too much drink no
good,” I told Charlie Pong—the only one
who seemed capable of profiting by the
admonition. Charlie became quite in-
dignant at this insinuation. “No, dlin-
knm,” he explained, “me show you.”
Pouring a small quantity of gin into a
shallow dish, he placed it over an oil
lamp (the sort used for opium smok-
ing) and, holding his face to the
steaming contents, began to inhale the
vapor with evident relish. Presently
he looked up and said, “Now you. tly
him —velly goo’!” When I explained that I
usually took my tonic in liquid form, Pong
grunted disapprovingly and remarked: “Me
makem dlunk outside ; you dlinkem inside —
that way too dear!”
# $ * *
“Strict Veg.”: The ownership of a 120-
note was disputed in a Melbourne court the
other day. It was burning
in the pocket of a lonely
visitor from Tassie when a
lady gave him the glad-eye
on Bourke - street. After
learning that he had no
friends in Melbourne and
that he liked her company,
the lady politely invited him
to her flat for a little music.
The lonely one accepted and
on the way thither in a
cable-tram produced the £2O-
- and gallantly pressed
it on his prospective hostess,
insisting that money was no
object to him. Arrived at
the fiat, he repented of his
generosity and demanded the
money back, and when the
lady refused to regard it
otherwise than as a gift he
gave her in charge for theft.
In the subsequent proceed-
ings she was acquitted, liei
accuser having disappeared,
but the police Held the note.
On an application to decide
whether the State or the
musical female should have
the piece of paper the beak
chivalrously awarded the
prize to the lady.
“Kerys” : “Downanout’s” plaint about the
nuisances who go round defacing Nature’s
beauty spots (B. 21/7/’27) brings back
memories of the famous Maoriland White
and Pink Terraces in the days when they
ranked among the marvels of the world. The
defilement of these glorious formations by
those whom .T. A. Froudo on his visit called
"tourists ambitious of immortality” was an
abomination, and as the pencilled names on
the white surface were in a few days covered
with a coating of silica which preserved them
from erasure, the terraces were beginning to
look like the visitors’ book at the local hotel.
But Tarawera settled the matter with his
outburst in 1886, wherein the Terraces went
either up or down or sideways, taking the
record of their pilgrim-scribes with them.
* * =i= *
“Trepex”: A lot of fuss is being made
about Russia buying wool from Australia
direct and about a special representative who
SUCH A LOAD OFF HIS MIND.
PHYL ( after week-end party): “ Wasn’t Peg a wonderful chaperon?”
BILL: “Oh-h-h! Was she our chaperon?”
has come to make arrangements. Till very
recent days Russia always did buy our wool
when her own clip was short and she had
the money, but she did it mostly through
German brokers. In pre-war days she
always took fine scoured lines. The Musco-
vite had a flat import duty on all wool going
into his country, so the scoured was natu-
VANISHED.
“Tom, I’ve a vision of a new frock.”
“No, my dear, not a vision—a mirage.”
rally chosen. The last big purchase in Syd-
ney on Russian account before the war was
made on July 29, 1914, when a German
firm bought 330 bales of a Queensland
scoured clip. As the war was looming and
the wool was still German property, it was
rushed on the Nord-Deutscher Lloyd boat
then in Sydney Harbor, and she bolted. She
was afterwards made a prize by the British,
and the wool cargo was sold in London at a
great figure.
* # * #
“Trevdee”: How’s this for the pursuit of
varied callings? A hustler of my acquaint-
ance in a Vic. township is .the local hair-
dresser From 9 a.m. to 6 p.m. he
attends to men and boys and sells
tobacco, books, silverware, soap, etc., to
all and, sundry; he shingles and bobs
the district ladies every evening from 7 to
10; runs a book on all race meetings; audits
a good few of the cockies’ books when income-
tax is due; does a bit of dealing in live-
stock and wheat; owns cows and poultry
and sells milk and eggs; and, finally, keeps
in order all the district wireless-sets.
* * * *
“H. Horsecollar”: The restless Tank,
always . running after some new faith or
skyscraper or brand of chewing-gum, has
produced a Bible said to be written in a
“conversational” style. It is published by
the University of Chicago, and Chicago is
a mammoth centre of the wheat and tinned-
meat trades, if not of culture. The book
begins by stating the case for the Creation
in a sentence of 47 words:
When God began to create the heaven and earth,
the earth being a desolate waste with darkness
covering an abyss, and the spirit of God hovering
over the waters, then God said “Let there be light,”
and there was light, and God saw that light was
good.
It may be good Chicago conversation, but
the style seems anything but an improve-
ment on the old James-the-First version, or
the Douay version, either. It is further
cabled that the Song of Solomon has been
“vastly, changed and put into a modernised
poetical style.” The result should be in-
teresting, for the new Bible-makers couldn’t
do much with that extraordinary production
without deciding what it means. Previous
critics theorised over it without altering
it. They wrote about it without re-writing
it. Some said it was a collection of love-
songs which the Hebrew sang to his best
girl; others that it was an unstaged drama
with all the characters left out:: and others
that it was the story of a kidnapped girl
who successfully resisted all attempts to add
her to the Solomonic harem. The struggle to
give it a deeply-prophetic meaning has almost
• died out. after centuries of argument which
at times almost developed into civil war.
If the Yankee university, in pursuit of the
modernising process, has put Solomon, who
probably never saw or heard of the song,
into a tall hat and a frock-coat, the conse-
quences may include serious Hebrew riots.
“Paul”: Few people would associate any
damages with debating, viewed as. a form
of sport, but one of Sydney University’s
budding Ciceros who toured the United States
with the jaw-wagging team mentions that
on two occasions he and his co-orators had
to face hostility and even threats of violence
from an audience which persisted in regard-
ing them as propagandists instead of dis-
interested logic-choppers. Some of the ’Mur-
kan seats of learning, it appears, take their
debating contests almost as seriously as
baseball matches. At one of the universities
encountered, the opposing team had a card-
index, prepared by the debating coach, in
which was an answer to every pos-
sible argument that might be employed
against their case. The position of debating
coach at an American uni. is a precarious
as well as a highly responsible one; should
his team lose an important match, he is
liable to lose his job.
* * * *
“Flash Coot”: In France the other day a
stunting airman crashed on a beach crowded
with children, killing a couple aiid narrowly
escaping lynching himself. A similar sort of
aerial ass recently appeared over the Sydney
Sports Ground, during a women’s hockey
match, and flying low just cleared the top
of a packed grandstand, the wind from the
propeller blowing the powder off the noses
of the flappers there assembled. The air-
above and about the stand was thick with
electric-light cables, and a slight slip might
have caused a ghastly accident, with elec-
trocution trimmings to add to the fiery finish
of a crashed ’plqne in an old and tinder-dry
wooden grandstand. Why ’planes should be
allowed to fly over towns at all is a mystery
to many people. But probably they will go
on doing it until one falls on a town hall
full of aldermen or a Legislative Assembly
in full sitting.
* * J’£
“Naklioda”: The weird glamor that sur-
rounds seven figures has moved Melbourne
to acclaim herself a million city before her
time. According to the State Statist she
has just reached this eminence, the seventh
great wen of the Empire and the 23rd in
the world to do so. Also she lias managed
it in 92 years, thereby establishing yet
another record. Actually, however, the
figure has been attained by counting over
the heads within, a 15-mile radius, which is
five miles larger than that used for other
cities. And her rate of increase, both natu-
ral and imported, is steadily falling. The
average per annum over the whole period of
her adolescence is 31 p.c., but lately it has
fallen, below three.
BALLADE OF WARMTH AND A
WEAKNESS.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Now days there be when the fingers yearn
For tingling blood that comes not nigh ;
-Vnd days there be that warmly churn
The veins to fever glowing high.
I like not chilly days, not I,
Though few the sins they leave for rueing;
There’s beauty in a clean, cold sky—
But leave me not to a wintry wooing.
And maids there be of a chilly turn
Who may not blaze, howe’er they try;
And maids there be that briskly burn
To every kindling look and sigh.
1 like not chilly maids, not I,
Whatever crowns they be pursuing;
There’s merit in cold purity—
But doom me not to a wintry wooing.
Seasons there be will never learn ,
To smile on frail humanity;
Seasons there be when flower and fern
Are pagan lures to the' passer-by.
I like not righteous days, not I.
With icy stare for my weak undoing;
I icould be good. ... but soon 1 die.
Sentence me not to a wintry wooing.
Envoy.
O Sun, whose hot and glamorous eye
Our faults with tolerance would be view-
ing,
God of the seasons, heed my cry.
And leave me not to a wintry wooing!
VICTOKTA.
HASEN.


“Sierra”: Most of the 16
ancient windjammers that have
been racing round the Horn Avith
Australian Avheat this year are
British-built and one still flies
the red duster ; America, Sweden
and Norway oavii one each, nine
are Finnish and three German.
The youngest ship of the bunch
(Archibald Russell) is 22 years
old, and the oldest (E. R. Ster-
ling) 44. The Hougomont led
off from Port Lincoln on Janu-
ary 1; the other vessels left
various ports at intervals up till
April 16. Eight have alreadv
arrived in the Channel; such
reports as are available indi-
cate that life on a windjammer
has changed little in 50 years.
The Archibald Russell and the
Hougomont were in company
for eight days, the creAv of the
latter working overtime retrim-
ming cargo and scraping barn-
acles off the vessel’s bottom. They
even set a sail under the bow-
sprit, surely the first time a
“Jimmy Green” has been set
this century. The Greif (the old
Wiscombe Park) struck trouble
in the Atlantic and lost two men
overboard along with a length
of bulwarks and three lifeboats.
Probably the old-timers wouldn’t
stand much pressing; with the
exception of the Herzogin
Cecilie, Avhich covered the course
in 88 days, the ships’ passages
ranged from 124 to 155 days.
* :|:
“Cahors” : Count Von Lucktier
was not bluffed into abandoning
the See Adler near Fiji (B.
7/7/’27). He left her wrecked
on a coral reef some thousand
miles away and headed for Fiji
with a feAv of his men in a small
open launch. His objective was
the Fijian inter-island steamer
Amra. The lieutenant in charge
of the native police in Levuka
heard that a number of men
had landed on one of the outer
islands and went off in the Amra
to investigate. The steamer was
carrying cattle for Suva and had
a number of cattle-boxes on
deck. These gave her the ap-
pearance of being boarded up,
and Von Luckner naturally
thought that she was armed.
When the young police officer.
Avith his revolver (the whole of
the Amra’s armory), Avent off to
meet him in a boat he surren-
dered at once. Von Luckner’s
launch voyage has been com-
pared with Lieutenant Bligh’s
great boat journey. It cer-
tainly was a wonderful feat of
navigation.
* * * $
“Strict Veg.”: About the queerest article
of import the Australian .Customs has ever
run against has been passing through its
hands in small quantities lately. It is ordi-
nary or common housedust, and it is all going
to the Baker Medical Research Institute in
Melbourne. The theory is that the stuff the
maid or the missus sweeps under the piano
contains a something—probably a proteid—
which causes asthma. The institute is a year
old and has been working on the hypothesis
only a short time, but it has already found
m dust from New York carpets the same
mysterious substance which tickles the glands
of Victorian housewives.
* * * * *
“Opticus”: Sydney is the home of so
many “isms” that it is hardly surprising the
ancient art of astrology should maintain a
firm hold on the credulous. Many of its
devotees are educated men and women ; quite
a few business people regularly consult an
astrologer before committing themselves to
big deals. There are in Sydney at least a
dozen of these professional seers, one of
whom has been on the job for 53 years,
Avhile another is a lady with University
degrees. They cast horoscopes for anything
up to £3 35., and for a fee of ss. you can
obtain some sort of answer to any question
you may care to ask. The boom in theosophy
seems to have caused a corresponding boom
U 1 as these cults are soineAvliat
allied. A bookseller told me the other day
that, he had sold 300 Astrological Almanacs
within one month of receiving them from
London.
* * * *
Robin H.” : I think I may claim to have
introduced Australian raisins to Macedonia,
though not for trade purposes. During the
war I Avas corporal chef of the 42nd Ambu-
lance Train, where I found the waste of
foodstuffs deplorable. Although they were
rarely of use_ for invalid cookery, Australian
currants, raisins and sultanas of the best
quality Avere issued to us by the case. Pro-
tests that we had more than enough were
entirely disregarded, and finally there was
such a pressure on pantry-space that my
superior officer instructed me to throw out
most of the cases. On our nocturnal re-
turns from the Bulgarian frontier to Salo-
nika I tossed them out as Ave thundered
through quiet villages along the line, and I
suspect that the simple folk of the country,
who were having a particularly lean time of
it, took them as direct gifts from HeaA’en.
Father would merely do
a dougfairbanks if he
was late for the 8.20 a.m.
This would be a daily
incident iu the life of
Flossie from the
I pickle-factory.
No. more telephone
irritation—have you
noticed how quickly
they get their ’phone
numbers on the
pictures?
Gertie, the house-
maid, requires a
sleek sheik as a
wooer and the
butcher’s boy
v. obliges.
And the office boy after
defeating the designs of the
underworld on the petty-
cash
Would receive the hand of
the grateful boss’s daughter.
IF REEL LIFE WAS REAL LIFE.
“Jim Domino”: Mrs. Barley often pro-
vided amusement for the office staff on a
station near Nyngan, N.S.W. Her husband
was a boundary-rider and the hut was con-
nected by a “party line” (B. 7/7/’2T) with
the homestead. One morning the manager
Avas speaking to the overseer of an out-
station, when a decided weakening of the line
followed the distinct click of a receiver being
lifted from the hook. “I suppose that’s Mrs.
Barley again,” fished the manager, then con-
-1 tinued: “I’ll bet a quid her old man is loafing
about the house right noAV.” “Loafin’ yer-
self,” broke in a well-known voice: “Johnny’s
lightin’ th’ fire this minit, so he is loafin’
indade!” and the receiver was slapped back
into place. The time was 11.30 a.m.
*'* * *
“Naklioda”: Paul Montford, the sculptor,
has been playing a joke on the worthy souls
who run the Fitzroy Gardens, Melbourne.
The council commissioned the sculptor to re-
store its classic statuary, which is in such a
sad state of disrepair that babies frequently
have fits at sight of it and typistes go the
long way home after dark to aAoid coming
suddenly on a headless lady. Anvone familiar
with the originals or photos of them can get
a morning’s mild amusement by examining
Montford’s work. He has shown what he
thinks of the ancient masters or the Mel-
bourne authorities by following his own
fancy. One of his most arresting achieve-
ments was to convert the animal which ac-
companies Artemis of Versailles irom a leap-
mg hart into a sheep or goat, freshly shorn
and standing stockstill in astonishment at
tlie outrage.
* * * *
“Canar”: There is one returned soldier
in Sydney who carries on his body a lar°n-
size reminder of what mustard-gas could do.
Towards the end of the war he was badly
gassed, having walked right on to a patch of
ground which only a few minutes before had
been thoroughly drenched with the stuff It
penetrated his clothes and attacked every
souare inch of his skin except the parts Se?
pressing close KfabSdJ Whin he'emeTS
from hospital some six months later the K
was seen to have turned his skin fdull brown
color from the mask-protected head and neck
l th in skin Ct ’ s aild ®r his belt
tint and so when ho stringa 1 tS n . atu ] ral
outlined on his «kin thef ba ?
outlined on ms skin the exact replica of
these articles in life size. All efforts to re-
store, the skin’s natural coloring have failed
and it looks as if lie will have to carry the
strange pattern to his grave
* * *' *
Cooramin”: The 110-hat movement of
tlie cities gets no support from the average
wandering bushwhacker. He can look on the
coat as superfluous, and go to town in his shirt-
sleeves but he rarely moves anywhere with-
out a lid to ins cranium, regarding it almost
a s necessary as boots. Possibly this is be-
cause his old brown hat is the only roof
that many a bushman knows for months at
a stretch, particularly on the droving track.
turns into bunk with it on; if
not it will be the first thing be dons in the
morning. When he sits at anybody else’s
table he hangs it on the floor at his feet
very carefully and keeps an eye on it, but
at his. own camp table he just as often
liang-s it where he wears it. On moonlight
nights m the open he turns the light off by
tipping it over his face. For all that, it
is common in the grey dawn to hear a testy
voice asking, “Where’s in e hat?”
* * * *
Verri”; Although Auckland, where Clem-
ent Wragge spent his last days, derived a
certain amount of amusement from the
prophet’s eccentricities, his weather forecasts
were always received with the greatest
respect. Wragge would announce that "a
disturbance which I have named Sisyphus
is approaching,” and Sisyphus would duly
approach on the date specified anti behave
just as expected. In conjunction with this
Wragge ran a unique sideline in private
prophecy, and for the sum of one shilling
would post to any address a weather fore-
cast for any special day. His best eus-
tomers were anxious hostesses, and the
f ° reCastS WaS amply . de T’ l_
1 at ? d Whe “u ° ne waaaan ’ consulting him
a . » arden Party, was advised in
L arrange the festivity. for the
a A ia tbe ., foll °Y in l oc„tober-
and Btra S k tbe only bn , e Satur-
day ™ & Senes * of lo wet week-ends^
fr ‘‘ S f d Swagman”: New methods of getting
y tra n ' nde f are . beln S de f Y lsed m , Queens-
“i jn ° a ne «^ terprl^ g y^ uth ngged hlmse ‘
fraVlffid on Soever from TmeraldTo
Blackall. He would have won clear even
then if it wasn’t for the suspicions of a con-
stable. As it was his excursion cost him £3
i n addition to tlie fare
“Clievroford” : Ever since the
appalling figures of last year’s
traffic accidents in Melbourne
were released, the Herald has
conducted with its usual earnest-
ness a Safety First campaign.
Prizes for the best essay on the
subject have been offered, a
picture of a smash has been
printed for the children to color
and everything journalistically
possible has been done to
awaken the people to the perils
amidst which they live and
move. The net result of all this
auto-suggestion, as far as one
can judge from personal observa-
tion, is that the normally careful
driver is now almost snail-like
in approaching intersections, and
old ladies, never very confident
of themselves, are reduced to a
state of gibbering apprehension
which involves them in increased
peril whenever they leave the
pavement. The moron who is
impervious to teaching of any
sort, however, still flashes by at
his 60 m.p.h., the casual pedes-
trian still flings himself into the
vortex with the abandon of a
newspaper boy and the Monday-
morning list of fatalities looks
no shorter. As an amusing side-
light on the newspaper’s cam-
paign, I passed a cyclist pedal-
ling home along one of the busi-
est streets the other evening,
deep in perusal of the Herald’s
last edition. Probably he was
anxious to read the result of
the latest Safety First competi-
tion.
* # :!:
“W. J.T.” : The Chinaman who
escaped the fate of some hun-
dreds of his brethren at the
hands (or teeth) of the Rossel
Island cannibals didn’t become
a Jiermit (B. 14/7/’27). In
ISSB the ship St. Paul was
wrecked on a reef off the north
coast of Rossel. It carried a
cargo of 325 Chows bound for
the Australian goldfields. The
European sailors escaped in the
boats, and the passengers were
left to the mercy of the gourmets
of Rossel, who devoured 324 of
them. In his “Papua,” Lieut.-
Governor Murray states: “This
account receives corroboration
from a statement in the Annual
Report of 1886 that, in January,
1859, four months after the
wreck of the St. Paul, the
French steamer Styx picked up
the sole survivor, who said that
all his companions had been
eaten. The survivor was taken
to Melbourne, and later on
drifted to one of the Victorian
goldfields, where he was pre-
sently arrested and charged
with selling liquor without a
license; he was clearly guilty,
but when his identity was dis-
covered the magistrate dismissed
the charge, thinking, no doubt
rightly, that the Chinaman had
suffered enough.”
* * :J:
“Hasen”: Broadcasting has
its nr>r>nngcio ii s humors. A “by
permission of” J. C. Williamson
was being broadcast in a
talk before the show from his
dressing-room. He did it well
and like a good artist seemed as
interested in the telling as, pre-
sumably, the audience was in the
hearing. When the voice of the
call-boy was heard (per micro-
phone and 3LO) there was an
obvious sorry-to-go touch in the
speaker’s words of farewell. It was an
effective ending—or would have been if the
dressing-room microphone had been discon-
nected at once. But it wasn’t and the next
thing heard, after a pause, was a heartfelt
“Thank God, that’s oA'er!”
HE WOULDN'T LISTEN.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
I tried to tell ’im all I knew, but lumme,
you could see
That ’e was reck’nin’ ’e was wise to far
more things than me;
E ’ad no time to listen to a bloke that
■ knew the game,
So n ™, ’ e ’ s broke ’e’s only got just ’is own
seir to blame.
You meet a lot of men like ’im no matter
vvherL vm, 0,, k ’ matter
There’s little vou’ can tell ’em that thev
don’t alreadv know
Thev trv to "iia- von " the ideer thev’re
shrewdies born and bred d th y
But allthdr tii *L.-t seem to
It seems a pity in a way, and yet it’s ’ard
to tell,
For all that you and me can say it’s mebbe
just as well
For them to go out on their own and see
the way of it
Instead of listenin’ to a bloke who really
knows a bit y
At least it gives them an ideer
of _’ow the country lies,
But, still, I always do me best
to put me cobbers wise.
'Cos Avhen they come the usual
thud and tucker-bags are
bare,
It’s blokes like me and you what
’as to send along their
fare.
But all the same, and no mis-
take, I’m sorry for old Bill,
For ’e’s a decent kind of chap;
too right ’e is—but still
E needn’t come and cry to me
now ’is great scheme is
wrecked,
’E wouldn’t listen to a bloke —
so what could ’e expect?
AV.A.
OSCAR WALTERS.
WATTLE-BLOSSOM.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Wattle-blossom every year
Brings me trouble and expense,
Broken trees and missing fruit,
Gaping boles in every fence.
Nature-lovers, various kinds,
Come all day in twos and threes
(Wattle-blossom their excuse)
Pillaging my orange-trees.
Up the paddocks, through the creek.
Stroll these brigands bad and bold;
Well they know ’tis citrus time
When the wattles turn to gold.
Fencing bills and lightened crops
Make me doubt their soft excuse;
This year gleaming fruit to keep
I have turned my black bull loose!
N.S.W.
MAX.


Overland
Down
WHIPPET
in Price.
tk
35 miles on an Imperial gallon of
petrol.
55 miles and more per hour.
5 to 30 miles an hour in 13 seconds.
4 wheel brakes . . . stops in 51 feet
from a speed of 40 miles an hour.
Turns in 34 foot circle . . . easy to
steer.
5 feet 9 inches high . . . lower centre
of gravity . . . ample road clearance
. . . greater road safety.
Smart body lines . . . long-life satin-
finish of beautiful duotone duco.
> 1
V
m
55,070 Whippets in the first 4 months is a success-
record unequaled by any other new car. The
Whippet has already established a new, revolutionary
trend in light car design that all others must follow
or be swept into oblivion.
It has taken Overland engineers 3 years to design,
develop and perfect this new-type motor car. What
the Whippet offers you now cannot be obtained in
any other light car for years to come.
The W 7 hippet gives you more power—more speed—
more safety—more comfort—and more beauty than
the world has been accustomed to getting in ordi-
nary light cars.
In fairness to yourself you must see this remarkable
new-type car—drive it—feel the thrill of power-per-
formance that thousands now would not part with.
OVERLAND
S
l
Body styles — Touring, Roadster, 2-door Coach.
Overland Sydney, Ltd., 148-150 Castlereagh Street, SYDNEY.
Overiand Victoria Pty., Ltd., 117-121 Lomdaie Street, MELBOURNE.
Overland South Australia, Ltd., 236-238 Victoria Square, ADELAIDE.
E. G. Eager & Son, Ltd.. Breakfast Creek Road, Newstead, BRISBANE.
H. C. Heathorn & Co., Ltd., HOBART and LAUNCESTON.
Adams Motors, Ltd., 442-446 Murray Street, PERTH.
Dealers and Service Everywhere.
WILLYS • OV E R t A N P
MOTOR • CA R s
FINE


.
tf'r HW
O'
i? Sraffi
TfAsi. dr**4 that p/eases t/iePa/ate
o
0
0
a
AN ORANGE DRINK
MANUFACTURED
exclusively BY
gd
Shoe Cream
*
r POLISHES— PRESERVES—PREVENTS CRACKS
30ST0CK S Shoe Creams are made in all
principal shades, and especially noted for the
New Shade of Bois-de-Rose, Putty. Sunburn
and Oak.
Price 6<f. per tube* Obtainable Everywhere .
Matar” : Touching the utility or otherwise
oi these communication-cords in railway-car-
riages (B. 14/7/’27), a test was recently
made at the carriage-cleaning sheds of a
large country railway centre in New South
Wales. The result showed that in only about
10 per cent, of the carriages were the cords
in working order. In some carriages the
connections between one part of the train
and another were defective and in others the
cords were' so old that a strong pull would
almost certainly have snapped them.
* * * '*
‘“Tambo” : Touching these emergency but-
tons in Vic. trains which “Boco” assures us
(B. 30/6/’27). One evening
in 1916 a party of the extra reinforcements
always taken down to troopships was return-
ing to Seymour camp after celebrating the
IN DISGRACE.
FIRST DEAR: “Fancy! Your friend Mrs. Smythe has a baby. Did you know?”
SECOND DEAR: "Yes, I knew. But we’re not mentioning it.”
day in Melbourne. One hilarious Digger fell
train as it: w as toiling up the
hl “ to Glenroy: the com. cord was at once
pulled, but the engine chugged along to Glen-
roy, where the driver came back along the
train to see “which —— brake was stick-
ing. Meanwhile the n.c.o. in charge had
hopped out and returned the disc on the end
of the carriage to normal; no one ever knew,
bar himself, the cord had been pulled. A
Phone inquiry back to Pascoe Yale elicited
that a "full" Digger was enquiring the time
tor the next Seymour train; he turned up
next day uninjured.
* * * *
“Rob P.” : As a weapon of aggression or
defence the automatic is obviously inferior
to the revolver (P,. 21/7/’27) ; the time
lost in setting the catch precludes it from
being a quick-action weapon. On the other
hand, the pistol certainly lias the advantage
of lightness and the added advantage that it
is self-cocking. The most-favored weapon
among western U.S.A. gunmen was, and still
is, the Colt's .45 revolver. With thugs and
gangsters, though, whose ethics permit of
shooting a man when he isn’t looking, quick-
ness on the draw doesn’t count for so much.
4 lie popularity of the automatic is due to
its compactness and lightness, not to its
killing superiority. The favorite weapon of
Brisbane detectives is the .25 Webley auto-
matic. which can. be carried in the vest-
pocket. The service revolver is considered
detrimental to the hang of a nicely-cut, suit.
* * :!: ' *
“.1093 : The army revolver, is carried pri-
marily as a defensive weapon, for use only
at close quarters (B. 21/7/’27). Musketry
experts admit the greater velocity and pene-
tration of the steel-coated, pointed auto-
matic bullet, but maintain that these quali-
ties lessen its stopping power. Even if the
hit is not in a vital spot, the impact of the
bull-nosed .44 leaden bullet of the service
revolver is sufficient to drop an assailant on
the spot. The automatic, especially of the
smaller calibres, cannot be relied upon to
achieve this. Incidentally, in six months’
experience as an instructor I noticed that
tew attained any accuracy with a revolver
beyond a range of 30 feet, which suggested
there was little need to worry about range,
trajectory and velocity.
* * * *
“Mr. Another”: N. S. Wales has a more
cunously-named train than Queensland’s
‘Sweeper” and “Midnight Horror” (B.
21/7/’27). This is the “Fish Train” which
leaves Mt. Victoria (Blue Mountains)
bright and early every week-day. It lias
nothing to do with fish, having received its
sobriquet from the fact that for years it
was in charge of a guard named Pyke and
an engine-driver named Herring.
* * * ' *
“Syd Swagman”: The “Wild Scotchman”
(B. 14/7/27) followed the Claude Duval
tradition in one respect; when he had robbed
a mail it was not unusual for him to toss
largesse to any swagman whom lie might
meet on the road. In the end this disarming
trait proved his undoing; a traveller, after
being enriched by the bushranger with a
bank draft for flo and two half-sovereigns,
immediately went and informed the police.
It was mainly through this ingrate that Mac-
pherson was caught at Gin Gin station, 90
miles away.
* * * *
“ Knikk” '• A humorous incident still re-
called by some old members of the Vic.
Assembly was a mock presentation to E. L.
/ox, one. of the favorites of the House. Zox'
who habitually wore a white waistcoat, came
to his legislative duties one day minus his
pet habiliment. Thereupon 65 members,
affecting to believe that uncle had the vest
in bondage, contributed a penny apiece to-
wards a redemption fund. Zox was sum-
moned to the library, where Deakin gleefully
SO STUPID OF HIM.
“Darling!”
“Yes, pet?”
“Don’t be vulgar, Albert. You know
perfectly well I wasn’t talking to you.”
made the presentation. “How much did you
say was there?” queried the beneficiary, eye-
ing the copper coins poured out of a paper
bag. ‘‘Five and fivepence,” replied Doakin.
“Good,” said Zox; “I always thought that I
had the goodwill of my fellow-members, but
never till this moment did I know the exact
value of it!” The white vest reappeared
next sitting day.
% Sfc $
“Nalunya : It was when I was a young
pupil teacher in Victoria that I heard a new
synonym for a step-
father, and, inciden-
tally, a new duty for
one. Among m y
charges were two
Drothers of 11 and 13,
backward and neglec-
ted boys. One morn-
ing at roll-call I asked
the younger one why
he had been absent
the prev i o u s day.
“P lay e d the wag,
miss.’' he told me
truthfully, his eyes
filling with tears as if
he had already found
occasion to regret it.
"Billy brought li i m
this morning,” volun-
teered the older
brother. “Oh, is that
another brother?” I
asked. “No, miss,” ex-
plained the youngster,
with a jerk of his
thumb over his shoul-
der, “’im as married
me mother.” I subse-
r quently found that
Billy, the lady’s third matrimonial venture,
was a youth of about 20.
* * * *
“Malalo”: I know that abortion is. prac-
tised in certain parts of the mandated terri-
tory of New Guinea (B. 7/7/’27), but I
think the decline of population is less attri-
butable to this than to. the natives’
knowledge of contraception, a much
simpler and less dangerous thing. But they
are very reticent to Europeans about their
knowledge, vaguely indicating their specific
as “plant alonga bush.” Another reason for
the. decline is. that infanticide is common.
Twins are fairly frequent and sometimes
both children are destroyed—but more often
only one, and that one usually a girl. The
chewing of betel-nut probably also helps to
keep down the population, for it acts as a
drug and impairs the general health.
“C.Q.” : Flinders Naval Rase is collecting
tradition with all the speed it can. The
old wheel of the original Cerberus is there,
dated 1869. The letter-box at the officers'
mess is labelled “Post-briefkasteh” and an-
nounces that it was taken at Bagamoyo,
German East Africa, August 15, 1911. In
front of the building there is a picturesque
piece of ordnance looking like a bit of old
Ming, which was captured by the Vic. Naval
Contingent at Pao-tingfu in 1900. Then
there are sundry relics of the Emden and
the Australia. Incidentally, the R.A.N. is
seldom referred to by those letters out there.
It is more usually “The Andrew,” though
none who use the term can tell you its origin.
* % * *
“Sebrof”: For Australia’s champion mys-
tery man I nominate a cliff-dweller on the
Victorian coast about three-quarters of a
mile from the club-house at a popular sea-
side and golfing resort. His name and the
information that he is an architect prepared
to submit plans are painted on a battered
piece of tin which is nailed to the outside
of his one-roomed shack. He visits the small
township for his stores at irregular inter-
vals, takes no newspaper and neither sends
nor receives letters. His onlv recreation is to
waylay strangers as they pass by his hut and
invite them to tea; few can resist the charm
of his manner and his conversation is that
of a well-informed and cultured man. It is
only after taking his departure that the
guest realises that lie knows no more of his
host than what the battered sign tells him.
Sf* i|: Hi Hi
“Mako”: _ Altlio’ugli the much-tattooed
Maori was inordinately proud of his deco-
rations he found his life rather a burden
when the camera man "was around. Near
Gisborne, Poverty Bay, there lived a much-
chiselled old Rangitira, who occasionally ven-
tured into the town on business. News of
his arrival always flew round the photo-
graphic studios, and while one camera expert
was trying to bribe the old chief to enter
his premises a couple more were dogging
his steps, instruments in hand, to take his
facial adornments as occasion offered, the
results being always a paying proposition for
the studios. Harried on all sides the old
gentleman would generally leave for home,
and finally would only come into town if
shielded by a bodyguard of youthful vassals.
Tawhaio, the last Maori king, was another
finely tattooed old warrior; a picture of his
head for many years adorned, the calendars
of the N.Z. Insurance Company. It took the
Maori maiden but a very short time to decide
that her tattooed chin was rather a hin-
drance than an asset to beauty, and the art
nowadays has wilted for lack of subjects.
A CONSOLATION PRIZE.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“Elderly Gent like to meet middle-aged Lady who
has missed chances through devotion to parents.”
■ —riGK view mat. ad.
Witt she fall, do you think, to the ad.,
The lady he seeks to discover,
Affection who had
For Mum and for Dad
Too deep to allow her to lasso a lad
In the springtime of life for a lover,
And to whom, now she’s forty, the Fates
would present
As some compensation an elderly gent?
Was she filial all things above,
So filial never her fancy
Would give her a shove
Toward the maelstrom of love
1 Hat makes the betrothed one a duck and a
dove
l u ,the eyes of her favored fiance?
that s the sort of devotion presumably
meant,
-V sine qua non for the elderly gent.
Did solicitude grip her so tight
About her belongings parental
That the suitor who might
Have been Mr. Right
1 >ecame, with the old folk in hearing and
sight,
No more than a mere detrimental,
TiU Prince Charmings in posse waxed weary
and went
And left a clear run for an elderly gent?
He stipulates no other trait;
A curious viewpoint lie wooes from;
There’s no one to say >
How many are they
Who meet his requirements and nought to
convey
The size of the field he would choose
from.
Still we’ll wish him good hunting, in any
event,
And a bride cut-to-measure, the elderly gent.
N.S.W.
IFORD.


*v.
v-
-38
■
a|fcfe£f7 > -
SS > “iE‘J^«?'
■ i “L
LV Cij
iww
T
m
V? 0
Nprv^r^ti^
vk
Is
r4l
Sf\
zm
z_ A(Qi
&
r ~~h 3 ~
SI
iv
TK.
g s
xn <§r*
T-* v. <«r\ 2<mMjm
UJiP'
md ; '
3? -f X>
0'
f
L-
/7^^=
mss
J
%
jsS^-
's>
s^m
m&
x
3*
r/
s
V 35
S
as
: X
S 3
Xg
"? j u. ! !|lik ' . -^•- /
!! l< } j .'■ --’ I
I 1 v?V,,l l
ScSi
(L
I f-
X K ’». --
t
r
m,
ii^ljfl'
or
-II rr
i
8
/6i
©
*r
&
i <
4DE
feU:
p
D
m
m
- Uds
!8K
HAMPION RESERVE
PORT
> V
f BOTTLED by the MAKERS 5
SuqMAS HARDY &SONS LIMITED^
■JH“‘ |D E MELBOURNE a. Srt> NEv 5
A AUSTRALIAN Wl N E V .
&N
AT A
~ vviME -c
6 FLUID ~o2g |Jfjj!
i**
a
3
\ >
. J
-3^-<rr^A
Fortunate Tintara
GOLD-tinted by the rays of a happy sun,
the broad vinefields of Tintara smile
and gladden to a rich success. The repu-
tation of Hardy’s renowned Tintara wines
was, year after year, built here. The dominat-
ing factors of purity and excellence which have
placed Hardy’s Champion Reserve Wines
(Gold Label) on a plane of their own, were
created on the glowing fields of Tintara. When
you call for Hardy’s Gold Label wines you
know that 80 years ago age was given to this
fine vintage—age which gives every advantage
to an organisation that to-day can supply the
very finest wines at a price within the reach
of all. At this season of the year every home
should possess Hardy’s wines, and no present
would be more appreciated than a bottle or
case of Hardy’s Champion Reserve Gold Label
Wines.
Procurable in all Hotels and Licensed
Stores where the proprietors are
proud to specialise in high-grade
wines.


IT PAYS TO INVEST IN
If
PIONEER
LEATHER
BELTING
THE LEADER SINCE 1858.
This famous power transmitter has maintained the leading position for nearly 70 years.
Made and Guaranteed by
J. C. LUDOWICI SON, LIMITED
Pioneer House, 117 York Street, SYDNEY.
INTERSTATE and NEW ZEALAND AGENTS:
VICTORIA: Henson Bros., Ltd.. 107-109
Queen’s Bridge Street, Melbourne.
QUEENSLAND: Hoey, I'ry, Ltd.,
Edward Street, Brisbane;
Burns, Philp & Co., Ltd., Townsville
SOUTH AUSTRALIA: John McKell and
Sons, Timpson Street, Port Adelaide.
WEST AUSTRALIA: Horace Summers.
Howard Street, Perth.
TASMANIA: Charles Davis, Ltd.,
Elizabeth Street, Hobart.
NEW ZEALAND: Friar, Richards <&
Upton, Auckland. Blackburn, Smith
& Co., Christchurch.
NOBEL-GLASGOW EXPLOSIVES.
The Standard of Quality throughout the Empire.
Monobel
Samsonite
Gelatine Dynamite
Gelignite
Blasting Gelatine
Dynamite
Safety Fuse
Detonators
Cartridges
ADFIELDS
(AUSTRALIA) LIMITED
The largest and best-equipped Crushing Machinery AYorks in Australia.
JAW CRUSHERS —DISC CRUSHERS—GYRATORY CRUSHERS.
PORTABLE CRUSHING PLANTS COMPLETE QUARRY PLANTS.
Hadfields’ Mansanesp Steel Wearing: Parts for all makes of Crushers.
Works and ?
Foundries \
Alexandria, Sydney, N.S.W.
Bassendean, Perth, W.A.
Branch (
Office j
422 Collins Street, .Melbourne, Vic.
T. & G. Building, Brisbane, Q
The WILD CAT
COLUMN
The Queensland National Bank:—
Net To
June, Profits. Dividends. Reserves. Reserves.
1919.. £108,346 10 p.c. = £53,144 £55,202 £278,766
1920.. 104,073 10 „ „ 77,274 27,399 306,165
1921.. 115,541 10 „ „ 79,746 35,795 341,960
1922.. 126,819 124 „ „ 99,952 26,867 368,827
1923.. 159.350 12* „ „ 100,000 l 4fl - fio 41s IV7
Written off Premises ..£1.0,000 ) 4J,djo 418,1 n
Premiums on new shares .. 147,512 565,689
1924.. 186,388 124p.c.= 137,880 },a K no IQ7
Written off Premises .. £lO,OOO ) 38,508 G04,19 ‘
Premiums on new shares .. 12,488 616,685
1925.. 196,946 10 p.e. = 125,1811
Written off premises. £12,500 j ° 9 ’ 265 676>Jo °
1926.. 207,176 10 p.c. = 148,977 [ 45 690 721 649
Written off premises, £12,500 j ’ ’
1927.. 204,702 10 p.c. = 150,000 (. 42,202 763,851
Written off premnses, £12,500 )
Disclosed profits were a couple of thousand
less than for the previous year, apparently
a hint that business liasi lately been a shade
less profitable. Indeed, with drought still
gripping a big area of the Northern State,
it seems unlikely that the net result for the
year could have been so near to that of
1926; but that is more likely to be explained
by conservatism in June, 1926, than by
optimism in June, 1927. The Q.N. is under
the necessity of viewing things even more
cautiously than most of the other trading
banks, for its frisks are almost all in one
State, although it has branches in Sydney,
Melbourne and Northern N. S. Wales.
Disclosed profits have for many years been
well in excess of the div.; so, notwithstand-
ing the issue of another £250,000 of capital
at par, there will be no strain to pay the
10 p.c. The Q.N. paid 12'$ p.c. for three
terms but reverted to 10 p.c. when it decided
that new shares should be issued at par to
holders. As there since have been two issues,
shareholders are making no complaint.
Balance-sheet figures moved as follows: —
Liabilities.
1922. 1924. 1926. 1927.
£ £ £ £
Interminable
stock . 3,091,669 3,091,669 3,091,669 3,091,669
Bills, etc... 350,078 487,656 542,493 712,405
Deposits .. 6,898,730 7,729,732 8,566,481 8,574,176
Liquid assets 4,056,621 4,103,058 4,335,196 4,110,156
Advances .. 6,994,272 8,451,967 9,591,06510,138,662
Premises .. 500,411 565,640 533,531 537,948
The proportion of liquid assets to the amount
of outside liabilities was lighter, but 44.2
p.c. of deposits and other outside money was
within reach at June 90, and that is quite
a solid position. Counting the £3,091,669
of interminable inscribed deposit stock as
permanent capital, and including the new
share payments, the bank held only 345. of
outside money for each £1 of its own funds,
which means exceptional security for de-
positors. Generally speaking, it also repre-
sents a small earning power; but the low-
rate deposit stock assists materially, and in
addition to the visible reserves are the inner
reserves accumulated during the years of
regeneration. The bank is interested in Mil-
laquin Sugar and Q.N. Pastoral. Both
struck trouble last year. Millaquin was
covered against its heavy fire damage, but
Q.N.P.’s loss of £205,435 for the year is to be
met by a cut at the 600,000 £1 ordinaries.
Holdings in these cos. have been well written
down. Recent Q.N. sales were at £8 11s., at
which the 10 p.c. divs. yield 5J p.c.
The controversy over the claims of holders
of Q.N. interminable deposit stock for
better treatment has moved the directors to
issue a special statement. When late g.m.
Ralston, wdio directed the cleaning-up of the
mess, was questioned on the matter, he
pointed out that few of the original holders
were left. The present report states that only
one-sixth of the stock is in the names of the
1597 holders. It is shown that the average
interest return of the purchases throughout
the period of their holding has been 6.64
p.c., while the present average return is
about 8 p.e. Also, it is mentioned that there
are few of the holders who couldn’t now sell
out at a very good profit. Whatever con-
cessions might be made to the inscribed
stock holders w T ould have to be at the expense
of ordinary shares, and it is pointed out that
they have done poorly enough; they didn’t
get a bean by way of interest for 23 years.
Also, notwithstanding recent issues, a pur-
chaser of shares in 1892, the year before the
smash, at the then current price, would still
be on the wnmng side —his shares would have
averaged him now about £9 10s., and the
present price isn’t that by a good bit.
Bilt really, has this got anything to do
with the case? The Bulletin knows two
men who were little more than youths at
Broken Hill in the days of the great boom.
They had a business, and one not only robbed
the other but made things so uncomfortable
for him that he cleared out. He should have
had over £2000; what he got was less than
£2OO. With that he went to Westralia, and,
having been a friend of Zeb. Lane’s at Broken
Hill, got into some early good things. With
his hundred-odd pounds he thus made a tidy
fortune. Suppose the other fellow said:
“Yes, of course I robbed him ; but didn’t it
result in his making a fortune? Surely,
then, even though I have done very well my-
self, you don’t expect me to make repara-
tion?” What should we think of him? Of
course, the Q.N. didn’t rob anybody. But
it took people’s deposits and didn’t pay them
back: and the cases seem to run a good way
along parallel lines. The Bulletin doesn’t
particularly want to see these inscribed
stock holders get anything. Most of them
have done nothing to deserve it. The bank
owes most of them precious little. The
question is, what does it owe to itself?
*■* • * «
H. McKenzie, Ltd., timber merchants,
etc. (Sydney) :
To Re- Re-
Mar., Profit. Dividends. serves. serves.
1917. . £11,410 10 p.c. = £13,000 --- £109,125
1918.. 22,264 20 „ „ 26,000 103.389
1919.. 29,468 15 „ „ 19,500 £9,968 113,357
Reserves capitalised. £52,000 .. 61,357
Bonus shares to employees, £2,698.. 58,669
1920.. 43,409 15 p.c. = 27,570 15,839 74,498
1921.. 45,305 20 „ „ 36,940 8,365 82,863
Profit on sale of asset, £1,152 .. 84.015
1922.. 26,780 10 p.c. = 20,991 5,789 89.804
Profit on sale of assets, £12,416.. 102,220
1923.. 27,407 10 p.c. = 27,407 102,220
1924.. 11.809 4 „ „ 11,788 21 102,241
Loss
1925.. 34,560 Nil 67,681
Deficit.
Assets written down, £70,000 .. 2,319
Reserves.
Capital written down, £73,674 .. 71,355
Profit on sale of assets, £2,651.. 74,006
1926.. 11,527 -Nil 62,479
Loss on sale of assets, £15,703 . . 46,776
Deficit.
Reserves, disappear, £64,281 .. 17,505
1927.. 3,738 Nil 21,243
Last time the “Wild Cat” had a look at this
co.’s accounts it questioned some of the re-
serves included in the table, and recent
events justify the doubt. The co. has had a
poor run of late years, but its experience
has not been unique, mpst timber merchants
and millers having been in the same uncom-
fortable position. Certainly, the trading loss
was lighter than in the two preceding terms,
but last year’s result was darkened by a loss
on realisation of shares in H. McKenzie
(Queensland), Ltd., of £15,703. This ven-
ture proved a drag from the beginning. It
represented the purchase in 1920 of 10,000
acres of forest on Fraser Island, near Mary-
borough (Q.), but each year’s operations re-
sulted in a deficit, and the disposal is a
release. In the 1926 accounts “shares in
other cos.,” which covered this holding, ap-
peared at £35,020; the latest entry is £7O.
In view of the recent developments it looks
as though the later profits disclosed, by the
parent co. were not earned —that the heavy
fall in values was met by a too-lenient revi-
sion of stock figures. The writing down of
capital by £73,674 (ss. off each £1 share) in
1925 helped to right things, but it was not
sufficient. A further Is. 6d. per share is now
written off; this will provide £22,102, or
£859 in excess of the existing p. and 1. debit.
Also Is. 6d. per share is being returned to
shareholders “from the available cash which
is not required for business purposes”—and
capital has been further written down by
that amount. This will make a total of Bs.
written off or reduced since 1925. The co.
has deserted the old Glebe Island site for
Rhodes, on the Parramatta. It has taken
plant and machinery considered suitable, and
proposes to sell the balance. This move will
relieve it of heavy rental and other charges.
Freed of the “excessive costs” connected with
the business at the old site, the co., the
directors say, will make “wliat is practically
a new start with an up-to-date plant, operat-
ing in a locality which is more central to the
general demand.”
Financially the co. is very comfortable:—
1924. 1926. 1927.
Liabilities .. .. £38,409 £14,436 £3,243
Book debts 1 [ 33,493 33,829
Cash, etc. .. [ 49,801 \ 5,345 5,768
Deposits at short call j [ 20,000 30,000
Shares in other cos. .. 105,020 35,020 70
Freehold, plant, etc. .. 105,50-3 112,925 92,181
Stocks 175,023 91,155 59,036
Paid capital at March 31 was £221,023 in
294.69 S fully-paid 15s. ordinaries, which the
writing down and return reduces to £176,818.
Gross trading profit for the 12 months was
£52,913, compared with £46,012 for the pre-
vious term. Stocks are reasonable, but as
the timber trade still suffers from extra-
ordinarily keen competition, and conditions
still are dull, the most pessimistic view of
values is necessary. The change in site and
the reorganisation should give the manage-
ment a chance of breaking the three years’
famine, although until the whole industry is
put on a better basis this Column will not
be optimistic.
* * * *
Pacific Insurance Co., Ltd., head-
quarters in Fiji, branches in Commonwealth
capitals:— ,
To Re- Re-
Mar., Surplus. Dividends. serves, serves.
1921 .. £9,541 1 £0948 rQ 24S
Preliminary exes., £293, written off ) ~ ’
Premiums on new shares .. . . 1185 10,433
1922 .. 10,835 6 p.c. = £3532 7303 17,736
Premiums on new shares .. .. 741 18.477
1923 . . 4,035 Nil 4035 22,512
1924 .. 2,864 6 p.c. = 3023 22,353
1925 .. 4.001 Nil 4001 26,354
1926 .. 9,730 5 p.c. = 3023 6708 33,061
1927 .. 1,678 5 „ „ 3023 31,716
Premium income showed a decrease of £2117,
and heavy losses in two departments cut
the surplus to a shadow. Had the co. not
laid off most of its fire risks, matters would
have been much worse. The shrinkage in
revenue, the directors state, was due to the
cancellation of certain treaties entered iuto
at the end of 1925, which were bringing in
over £lO,OOO, but turned out to be unprofit-
able. The office last year was able to re-
place £SOOO of that business. Aggregate
losses were very heavy, amounting to 80
p.c. of net premium income ; had it not been
for a fortunate experience in the Marine
branch, results would have been all-black.
In the heavy losses was visible the influence
of the unprofitable treaty business referred
to. The co.’s own direct business in Fiji
and Australia showed a loss ratio of only
38 p.c. Island and “Eastern” business is
looked upon as calling for careful handling,
and the co.’s underwriting experience over
the past four years supports the opinion:—
1924. 1925. 1926. 1927.
£ & £ £
Fire .. Loss 4750 | P. 1821 P. 986 I L. 1723
Marine .. Profit 1714 j L. 4057 L. 192 P. 3395
Accident . . Profit 2479 | P. 2360 P. 4526 | L. 4812
Loss £657 L. £124 P.£5320 L.£3140
Shareholders have been informed that a use-
ful increase in “desirable business is confi-
dently anticipated” ; and, although optimism
isn’t encouraged by recent results, on its
connections and the experience of its con-
trollers the Pacific should do as well as
any in the field.
The co.’s progress (or otherwise) is here
shown -
Net Pre- Ex- Claims Expense
miums. Claims, penses. Ratio. Ratio.
1921 .. £11,503 £2,606 £2,358 22.7 p.c. 20.5 p.c.
1922 .. 27,394 11,731 8,072 42.8 „ 29.5 „
1923 . . 39.636 28.366 12,569 71.6 „ 31.7 „
1924 . . 37,975 25,810 12,723 67.9 „ 33.5 „
1925 . . 47,181 33,950 13,107 71.9 „ 27.8 „
1926 .. 59,867 88,118 16.428 63.7 „ 27.4 „
1927 .. 57,750 46,216 14,675 80.0 „ 25.4 „
The reduction in the expense rate, though
not great, is good, and the rate itself is
better than it looks because all development
is charged against revenue. The directors
explain why the div. was paid :
The matter of a dividend required some considera-
tion in view of the bad underwriting experience.
When the position is analysed and the causes closely
examined, and when it is realised that our own
direct business has become profitable, and that the
sources of revenue which handicapped the office are
now cancelled, there is little cause to fear a repeti-
tion of the bad year just passed through.
Although the div. was not earned, the
balance-sheet is clean ; field and office equip-
ment are absent from the accounts: reserves
are well in excess of the amount necessary
to cover un expired risks. These things more
or less palliate the management’s departure
from the safe rule. As total funds arc still
greater than the 150 p.c. of premium income
usually looked for, the management has a
solid basis on which to build. Subscribed
capital is £60,457 —302,285 £1 shares paid
to 4s. each. Last sale was at ss. Id., at
which price the return is a shade under
4 p.c. The market ranks the shares higher
than, for instance, the Queensland —-which
is very flattering and equally absurd.
* :S * *
Automobile and General Finance Co.,
Ltd. —The co. was incorporated on March
31, 1926, but did not start on its career of
t.-p. finance until the following July. Appa-
rently capital came in slowly at first.
Although the amount paid- up at the close
of the accounts (March 31) was £115,813,
with £22,313 calls paid in advance, average
capital employed during the term, according
to the directors, was “in the region of
£35,000.” Incidentally, capital reads this
way: Nominal. £600,000 in £1 shares; sub-
scribed, £441,845 less £303,799 uncalled, less
£22.233 outstanding allotment money and
calls, with £22.313 calls paid in advance.
The co. had £28,672 from the bank, and
sundry creditors were owed £lll5. All the
available money was at work at the balanc-
ing date, sundry debtors being £141.037.
“Establishment” appears at no less than
£42,709, of which £39.667 was share-selling
expenses. Thus, including advance calls with
capital, 30 p.c. was represented by the in-
tangible ; and, as the balance of tlie shares
are in the hands of the share-selling co.
responsible for the flotation, that item will
go up before it goes down. Interest and
commission earnings for the period were
£21,512, of which £10,681 was hold to belong
to the term: the balance was carried for-
ward. Of the £10,'681, £2864 went in exes.,
£lBB5 in interest; the balance, £5932, is
reserved for taxation and doubtful debts.
Accepting average capital at £35,000, and
assuming that the £5932 or even half of it
was actual profit, the earnings were not
at all bad for a first term. Plenty of busi-
ness “of a sound character” is said to be
offering, and with £441,845 of call-paying
capital—apart from shares that may be sold
during the current year—the co. should have
plenty of funds available. But the business
needs to be profitable if the intangible is
to be reduced to respectable proportions
within a reasonable time and shareholders
are to be given a decent return.
Administrative exes, were light; that is
expected in business of this description.
Provided a close grip can be maintained on
outgo, and the co. can find sound business
for its available funds, very good profits are
possible. Whether the growth of the t.-p.
habit is a good thing and whether the system
will continue to flourish are matters for
consideration. In this case the big sum
down for Establishment will be a brake, and
until it is substantially reduced the shares
are not likely to attract investors who put
safety first. The management states that
the stock is to be listed at an early date.
Marcijant’s Ltd., soft-drink manufac-
turers (Sydney ) -
Met To
May, Profits. Dividends. Reserves. Reserves.
1917. .£597!) 7 p.c. - £4193 £1,786 £3,554
1818.. 4254 7 „ „ 4193 61 3,615
1919.. 5999 7 ~ ~ 4193 1,806 6,421
1920.. 5220 7 „ „ 4193 1,027 6.448
1821.. 4378 7 „ „ 4193 185 6,633
1922.. 8096 7 „ „ 5066 3,030 9,663
1923.. 9198. 10 „ „ 7253 1,945 11,608
Profit on property sale . . 734 12,342
1924.. 8593 10 p.c. = 7253 1,340 13,682
3 925.. 8040 10 „ „ 7253 787 14,469
1926.. 8552 10 ~ „ 7253 1299 15,768
1927.. 7985 10 „ „ 7253 732 16,500
The weather at 'the two big holiday seasons,
particularly Easter, didn’t suit Marchant’s,
whose trade goes up with the thermometer.
However, net earnings were a trifle more
than sufficient for the 10 p.c. div., and.
although reserves are modest, shareholders
were not asked to accept less. Profit was
shown after providing for depreciation, and
as more than two-thirds of shareholders'
funds are in the fixed assets, it is highly
important that provision for renewals, etc.,
be adequate, especially as the 10 p.c. divs.
for the past five years have eaten up 85 p.c.
of the profit. Balance-sheet figures compare:
1924. 1925. 1926. 1927.
Liabilities .. £4,322 £1,951 £5,049 £1,652
Freeholds, buildings,
etc 42,825 41,868 39,224 40,274
Plant, etc. .. 23,027 22,657 22,875 26,526
Stocks . . .. 13,330 14,219 10,538 13,129
Book debts and cash 21,359 19,463 30,718 20,511
Liabilities at June 1 were light, and as
cash alone amounted to £7541, the position
was quite comfortable. Goodwill was written
out four years ago, but though the accounts
are free of intangibles, reserves can do with
attention, for competition in the trade is
keener to-day than it was in the past. Capi-
tal is £72,534 in £1 shares, and net tangibles
amount to £1 4s. 6d. The stock is listed in
Sydney, but sales on ’Change are rare.
Metropolitan Underwriters (Austra-
lasia), Ltd., has been formed to take over
the business of Metropolitan Underwriters.
Ltd., its organisation and its assets. Nominal
capital is £250,000 in £1 shares, of which
230,000 arc offered to the public payable Is.
each application; allotment and monthly
calls; 30,000 fully-paids to be issued to the
vendors. Metropolitan Underwriters, Ltd., as
payment for assets—ls,ooo upon registration
and 5000 when 100,000 shares have been
subscribed. The directors may proceed to
allotment when 25,000 shares have been
applied for. “Present and future business
of sufficient quality and quantity to ensure
the payment of substantial dividends on the
first year's trading” is mentioned, hut the
contracts taken over appear to consist only
of the selling rights over the unsubscribed
shares (107,000) in Automobile and General
Finance and 40,000 shares in Australian
Rubber Co., Ltd. The former has just issued
its accounts; the latter came on to the mar-
ket over a year ago. when it was seeking
£72,000 from the public. Apparently shares
in the latter co. have been moving slowly.
Although some general figures as to the in-
come of the vendor co. are given, there are
no detailed figures. The co.’s intention is
to use its capital for underwriting purposes
“only when the public does not apply for
sufficient shares [of issues handled] within
the stipulated time.”. The sophisticated in-
vestor will require more information than
is contained in the prospectus; but the ex-
perience of the past few years shows that
large sums can be got in by share-selling
organisations, and that large profits are to
he made out of the business. Whether the
concerns that are loaded with heavy flota-
tion and establishment charges can pull
through is another matter.


’YOURS, t think, Sir *
" UNDIES FIRST ! ”
*My LEARNED &ROTHER / OP COURSE, 'S RIGHT,"
" Far too much (" " Not half enouch 1"
” Back you <5O,
LITTLE C,IRI_ "
Tah,s ShEaT, Ol' Mua # BE Three* "
“AFTER 70\-lj M
REVIVING CHIVALRY.
“A society for reviving chivalry has been formed in England. The objects are to secure an observance of the old-time courtesies that lent a grace to life.”


Prices Are Unsteady.
Should I Sell ?
The
" Wild Cat’ Monthly"
WILL HELP YOU TO DECIDE
JULY NUMBER ON SALE.
SINGLE COPY, 2/-
PER ANNUM, 22/6.
Principal Newsagents,
or
“The Bulletin’’ Offices ;
Sydney or Melbourne.
We stock -f- GF Malleable Fittings to suit
every requirement, and as there are over 7500
varieties to choose from, we can accommodate any
trade. For water, steam or gas. Will not split or
crack, and are correct in every detail. Obtainable
from William Adams & Co., I.td., Sole Agents,
Sydney, Newcastle, Melbourne, Brisbane, Adelaide,
Perth.—Advt.
* * * *
Light weight and simplicity in handling and instal-
lation are big features in the success of Pioneer
Wood Pipe. They weigh only a third as much as
metal pipes and can be moved from one site to
another, as required, with little effort. Moreover,
they do not rust nor tuberculate, and are unaffected
by extremes of heat or cold or electrolysis. Those
interested in lasting conduit service should send for
a manual of complete information. Australian Wood
Pipe Co., Ltd., Burns Bay Road, Lane Cove, N.S.W.
(Ferry to Figtree) ; and at Footscray, Vic.— Advt.
Patents. —Have you an idea worth patenting?
Griffith & Hassel, Patent Attorney, 77 Castlereagh
Street, Sydney, obtain Commonwealth and foreign
patents.— Advt.
* * * *
IDEAS —Commonwealth and Foreign Patents
obtained. Codmson & Co., 483 Collins St’vet, Mel-
bourne. and Adelaide. Thirty veais’ practice. Write
us for Inventors’ Guide.— Advt.
* * * *
If you are a producer of ores, mattes, metals and
metalliferous residues of any kind, Burkard and
Co., Ltd., 26-30 Bridge Street, Sydney, are buyers
for U.K., Continent of Europe and U.S.A. smelters,
and will pay you the highest prices and give you
best terms. Advances made against ore —and market
information, prices, assays at your disposal. Send
samples and particulars.— Advt.
* * * *
Leflastriers’ Concrete Mixers —of all necessary
sizes—are designed and manufactured in Australia by
expert engineers. Apply Goldsbrough House, Sydney;
Collins House, Melbourne; 164 Edward Street, Bris-
bane : or 21 Morphett Street, Adelaide.— Advt.
A high-class line of Italian Microscopes, known as
the “Koristka,” pronounced by eminent authorities to
be equal to the best German instruments, are now
being offered by Messrs. Felton, Grimwade & Co.
Pty.. ltd.. Melbourne, who have been appointed
sole Australian agents. Inquiries will be promptly
responded to. — Advt.
* * * JR
Hydraulic Power Electric and Hydraulic Lifts
Limited (incorporated by Act of Parliament,
1888), hydraulic, electric and general engineers, lift
specialists. Maintenance and repairs of all classes of
lifts and other machinery. Mercantile Mutual Build-
ing. 14 Martin Place. Sydney.— Advt.
FULFIL THIS OBLIGATION.
In the interests of his dependents it is the bounden duty of every man to safeguard
his Estate by appointing a reliable Trustee.
The Permanent Trustee Company
of N.S.W., LTD.,
as a result of the experience based on 39 years’ control of all classes of Estates,
offers a service in capable and secure administration which is unequalled by the
individual. It ensures continuous control by men of expert knowledge. Unlike
an individual, the Company is permanent, whilst under a special Act of Parliament
the whole of the capital and assets, exceeding one million pounds, is available for
the protection of clients’ interests.
At all times the Company is available to clients for information.
Estates Under Control Exceed £11,000,000.
Arrange now for interview, or write for booklet, sent post free on request.
ALFRED G. MILSON.
LIEUT.-COL. T. F. RUTLEDGE.
E. V. T. WHITTLE, Assistant Manager.
DIRECTORS:
F. N. YARWOOD
(Chairman).
JAMES MOIR.
THOS. BUCKLAND.
J. W. BARNES, Manager.
25 O’CONNELL STREET, SYDNEY.
As Showing the Popularity of the
CURVILINEAR” in South Africa
smm
Our Bulawayo Agents assure us that, although all well-known concentrators are
represented there, the only Tables sold in Rhodesia for quite a long time are
“Curvilinears.”
Our Agents have just cabled us for another shipment to Durban.
GUTHRIDGE, LTD Patentees and Manufacturers,
CAMPERDOWN, SYDNEY.
In order that the co. may fulfil the terms
of its agreement with Russo-Asiatic Consoli-
dated, W. 11. Corbould, B. E. Posbery and
Frank Ilambridge go off the Mount Isa
board and three Londoners take their places.
William Mcßae (Sydney) continues as chair-
man. Corbould has been appointed advisory
director and for the time being remains in
London to consult with Russo-Asiatic’s tech-
nical staff. Work is to be pushed ahead;
five diamond drills are to arrive next month
and a vigorous boring campaign to test the
sulphides at depth is to be initiated. Mean-
time the branch line to the field is progress-
ing, and, as the Queensland Government has
everything to gain by a big industry in the
Far North, agreement as to railway rates
seems certain. Hambridge’s last important
work for the board was to produce a long
memorandum showing the effect of various
rates on mining possibilities.
* * * *
Some of the plant for the Palmer River
Dredging Co. (N.Q.) has been transported
from Cooktown to the Laura and the arrival
of the pontoon from Melbourne is the next
step. The most difficult part is to come: the
conveyance of the material from Laura to
the field, 60 miles from Palmerville. For
this purpose six- and 12-ton motor-trucks
will be used. Dredging operations will not
be commenced for at least a year; the co.
will be lucky to shift its plant to the field
before the next monsoon season. General-
manager Baker is inspecting the route.
* * * *
Tin scratching continues brisk in N.Q.
Returns for “minerals other than gold, coal
and precious stones” for the quarter ended
June 30 show a yield of £119,097 as against
£102,465 for the second quarter of 1926.
“Alluvial tin,” the report says, “is mostly
responsible for the increase,” values being
£29,332 as compared with £13,607 in the
second quarter of last year. Applications
for tin-dredging claims are also increasing,
chiefly on the old Herberton field. The week
ending July 16 saw four applications
for leases. Two, of 200 and 160 acres re-
spectively, are in the name of Anthony Line-
dale, and are on Smith’s Creek, and known as
the Temple and Mossvale. On Return Creek,
L. D. Lucy has applied for 60 and 165
acres, the Glen Lucy Extended and the Glen
Lucy. How are such small areas going to
carry the cost of modern dredge equipment?
% =i= *
Further prospecting and testing of the
Tinaroo (N.Q.'' dredging claims has been
carried out. An almost continuous line of
21b. gaound has been located running through
Nos. 1. 2 and 3 blocks, which comprise about
600 acres. Brisbane interests are said to
have agreed to float a co. to work the areas
by sluicing provided the report of J. W.
Moule, who inspected the ground recently,
is satisfactory.
* * * *
Almost half a century ago Dalmorton, near
Grafton (N.S.W.), was a busy gold-mining
centre. But values petered out, the diggers
chased richer discoveries and the town was
deserted. The Argosy, a local syndicate, has
been testing a property on Old Remarkable
mountain and reports that it has traced the
reef for 1100 ft. up the mountain and opened
it up on the other side. Four tunnels have
been driven in, the reef averaging from 2ft.
to 3ft. wide; high values are mentioned from
No. 2 tunnel, which is in 46ft., the mini-
mum assay from the four being given as 2oz.
Water and timber are on the spot. The find
is greeted locally as the beginning of a re-
vival in goldmining. But backers of gold
shows in N.S.W. of recent years have had
such a cold time that they will want some-
thing very solid to build enthusiasm on.
* * * *
Toonalook lode-tin mine, in the Riverina
(N.S.W.), reports that a trial crushing of
9 tons ore has given scwt. black tin, an
average of 2 % p.c. The stuff was put through
the Rutherglen (Vic.) Government battery.
The ore was divided into two lots, firsts and
seconds, and as the battery’s only saving
appliance was a concentrating table, there
may be a loss of 25 p.c. in the sands. The
preliminary estimate was that 5 tons of the
parcel would go 3£ p.c. ; as the balance was
from the lode cap it didn’t matter so much
what it went, but it was thought to be
much richer. The co. claims to have a
large body of gossan Sft. wide, with the lode
traced for 1000 ft. Further crushing may
throw a brighter light on possibilities.
* * * *
“Quidam”: Misima (Papua), formerly
worked by B. 11. Block 10, but now the
property of a syndicate, and managed by
G. O. Wilkinson, continues to make good.
Treatment, from the conventional point of
view, is barbarous, the ore going direct into
the vats Without crushing; yet the result is
highly payable, while scientific treatment by
the former co. was a financial failure. Curi-
ously enough, the manager’s brother, L. 0.,
years ago treated much ore at the Big Hill,
Stawell (Vic.), in a similar primitive man-
ner, carting ir out of the hill in drays and
dumping it direct into cyanide vats. The
stuff was low grade, but the results profit-
able. If the supply of soft, porous material
had kept up, the treatment would have gone
on indefinitely, but “L. 0.” ran into hard ore
necessitating crushing. Apparently in both
cases the ore treated is the capping of a
large mineralised lode. In the Stawell case
economical working of lode material was
then possible. At Misima. what lies below
-—the tremendous body of oxidised ore indi-
cates something infinitely larger than at
Stawell —may never be worked. It seems
certain that the fine gold that makes cyanida-
tion of uncrushed ore possible is derived from
decomposed pyrites, thereby indicating the
presence of a sulphide body below. Similarly,
while thousands of heaps of alluvial slime
in Victoria were unprofitable to cyanide,
there were certain leads, such as several
around Maryborough and Rutherglen, where
cyaniding was highly profitable.
* * * *
Mount Lyell (Tas.) closed down as from
midnight on July 20, as a result of the engi-
neers’ demand for a 44-hour week, despite
that the co. had been granted exemption from
the 44-liour rule pending the decision of the
Full Arbitration Court in the A.W.U. case.
Essential services and construction work,
where practicable, will be continued. The
cessation of work at Mount Morgan (Q.)
left Lyell as Australia’s sole copper producer
of note. As margins there have been narrow-
ing with the fall of copper, every impost in
the shape of increased wages and shortened
hours has brought the co. nearer to the point
where production became unprofitable. The
over-all copper recovery last year was 93.29
p.c. and not much more can be done there;
and though economies have been introduced
the way has been made hard by Court awards
and industrial, troubles. The co.’s big non-
mining interests—over half a million is in-
vested in chemical works in Vic. and W.A.
and it has a big holding in Metal Manu-
factures of Kembla (N.S.W.), which turns
out wires, cables, tubes, etc. —have helped it
through. More than half of Lyell’s output in
1926 was consumed within the Common-
wealth. The quarrel seems to be one between
the engineers and the Court, but as is not
unusual in inter-union and other industrial
quarrels in Australia, organised Labor
promptly proceeds to tie up industry rather
than utilise the legal machinery it has itself
created, to settle its troubles.
* * * *
Kimberley mineral field (W.A.) is again
in the limelight. This time assays of silver-
lead ore from outlandish country east of
Durack Ranges and n.-w. of llall’s Creek
are said to have given good results and, as
an encouragement to prospect over a wide
area, the finders have been given 12 months’
protection. This discovery recalls memories
of others in that part of the West. Some
months ago a piece of rock sent to the Mines
Dept, by a prospector near Hall’s Creek was
found to carry high percentages of gold,
silver and. lead, and ore received later from
the same source proved to be rich in silver
and lead. The sender, however, has since
informed the Mines Dept, that the area from
which the specimens came is inaccessible and
that he had abandoned it. Several other finds
of mineral wealth have been reported from
Kimberley during the last couple of decades,
but it was the rush of 1886 that first adver-
tised that little-known field. Kimberley may
yet become a producer of some magnitude.
Inaccessibility and prohibitive cost of trans-
port are keeping it back.
sfc H* H* *
London-controlled Star Emerald Co.
(W.A.) is again whooping about its wealth,
visible and invisible, and hints that fortunes
will be made by shareholders before long.
The market stands at a fairly high premium,
but disbelievers predict a crash.
* * * *
Kalgoorlie gold mines are declared to be
on the eve of amalgamation into three
groups: (1) Lake View and Star, Gt. Boul-
der and Golden Horseshoe: (2) Associated,
Boulder Perseverance and Oroya Links; (3).
North and South Kalgurli. There is not
the slightest doubt that, if the grouping could
be effected and central power and treatment
plants were established, costs could be re-
duced and shareholders would do better. Such
an arrangement would also prolong the lives
of the mines, because cheaper costs would
bring considerable additional ore reserves
■within the range of profitable extraction.
Amalgamations must come if the decline in
the field’s production is to be arrested, and
the sooner the better for all concerned.
* * * -jf
After a rough spin Gordon Lyon and other
Melbourne and Perth speculators who bought
the derelict Sand Queen-Gladsome gold mines
at Comet Vale (W.A.) last year are slowly
evolving order out of chaos. There is plenty
of good stufE in the bottom of the old work-
ings. but owing to flooding and debris the
trouble has been to get at it. Lyon and
party were confident at the start that they
were backing a winner and are more confi-
dent now than ever.
* * * *
Perth is still looking for someone to start
a live Stock Exchange or revive the present
one—hardly anyone is aware of its existence.
Meetings are held five days a week, but as a
rule not more than one sale a month is
recorded. Affiliation with Adelaide, Mel-
bourne and Sydney is its most cherished
right.
* :|c * *
Piling disappointment on disappointment,
Amalgamated Kawarau shareholders were
lately informed that the wing dam at claim
94 had been damaged by flood. A report
this week states that repairs have been
effected and mentions “good indications of
gold in the top deposits" which ai-e being
worked by a gravel pump. But a market fed
on “tons of gold” and “gold-carpeted river-
beds” isn’t thrilled by a mere “indication,”
and sellers are prepared to pass on their
shares along with their blessing for 8-Jd.
* * * *
The estimate of 1,0Q0,0000z. gold in the
Koranga and Ivaili sections of Guinea Gold’s
leases on the Bulolo is, as reported last
week, the outstanding point in W. P. Lap-
thorne’s report to Guinea Gold. Although
the document is general in terms it is stated
that a net return of even Is. to 2s. per yard
on the great loamy fiats would make them
“one of the finest and most extensive gold-
mining fields in the world.” Of Koranga
section Lapthorne states that he could go
anywhere along the creek “with one boy and
a dish and wash up an ounce of gold in about
half a day.” He left instructions that imme-
diately the testing of the lower leases is
completed labor must be concentrated on the
continuation of the water-race and erection
of sluicing plant on Kaili and opening up
fresh faces on Koranga Creek, where pro-
duction of IOOOoz. per month, as a start, is
expected, rising to 2-3000 oz. before Christ-
mas. Food and transport difficulties have
given way to cultivation and the aeroplane
service. A road is to be constructed to the
field from the coast by the Administration ;
the work has been started and a track with a
maximum rise of 1 in 12 has been marked
out. A fuller report is to be made to share-
holders. The question of costs is what in-
terests tlie market, and a fairly close esti-
mate should now be possible.
* * * *
“Caught Short": A lot of fuss has been
made in Sydney papers during the past
fortnight over a circular issued by the Stock
Exchange, pointing out that shares in tin-
dredging cos. which are registered in the
F.M.S. are not liable in respect of N.S.W.
income-tax. This has long been known by
everyone with the remotest interest in tin
speculation. Why the Stock Exchange
authorities should consider the belated an-
nouncement necessary is puzzling a lot of
people. Whatever the reason, the result has
been a mild bull influence on Asiatic tin
stocks.
$ ❖ :J:
Austral Asiatic, a Sydney holding and
prospecting concern headed by Joseph Tom-
linson, has taken up its option over the
Muang Tuat property, near Ban Nasau, in
Siam, and the flotation of a co. to work the
area is to be put in hand. Capitalisation
figures and other details will be announced
as soon as possible. The holding co. was
founded in Sydney in 192 G, and full boring
tests were taken of the 300 acres under the
option. A. C. S. McLeod, one of the best-
known mining engineers in Malaya, was in
charge of the testing. His estimate is an
average of 140 z., with an average depth of
21ft. The ground is easy working, with
no clay, and there was no trace of buried
timber —an obstacle which has upset more
than one Siamese chariot;
Takuapa means to lose no time in getting
its Sydney-built No. 2 dredge to work. In
addition to the June shipment of material,
300 tons were sent off early in July. Con-
struction sites and excavations are com-
pleted. The second dredge, like the first,
will be Diesel-electric, but with a slightly
larger digging capacity. No. l’s is 150,000
c.y.
* * * *
Ratrut Basin reports that the dismantling
of No. 1 dredge on the abandoned Renong
area is about finished, and it is expected that
much of the material will be shipped to the
new Sichon area for re-erection by the middle
of October. The new and modern No. 2
dredge, by Poole and Steele of Sydney, will
be working, it is hoped, by October, 1928.
Rails for the tramway connecting the mine
with Sichon port (15 miles) are being de-
livered, while the landing stage at Sichon
is finished and a crane is up. Malaya Tin’s
engineers have estimated the Sichon area as
averaging 18? oz. to the yard—2Boz. in
section A (150 acres). 16oz. in B 1 (200
acres), 12oz. in B 2 (165 acres). The total
area held under approved mining lease is
1146 acres. Ratrut Basin is paying a quar-
terly sixpence till No. 1 dredge starts. What
happens after that depends on the new pro-
perty, which certainly seems promising.
* * * :|:
“Wynbye” returns to the subject:—
If “Prospector” (B. 14/7/’27) will again pan off
my sample he should find the color that he has
missed. I said the gold in the Palmer (N.Q.) and
in the Nullagine came from the denudation of con-
glomerates, and that the gold in the Nullagine con-
glomerate was precipitated from solution.
There is some conglomerate in which the gold is
waterwom and rounded and in appearance is what
“Prospector” would doubtless call true alluvial. This
gold must have come from the denudation of earlier
deposits of conglomerate or from the denudation of
reefs or lodes. There is evidence that some of the
alluvial gold in the Klondike came from conglomerate,
the gold content of which had all the appearance
of true alluvial. On the mountains forming the
boundary of the valley of the Klondike, there are
still small patches of conglomerate carrying gold
of this class, which is evidently the broken fringe
of an extensive deposit that at one time existed
and from the denudation of which came a good deal
of the gold in the river gravel. “Prospector” agrees
that chemical precipitation does enrich alluvial leads,
but says that it is not an important factor; yet the
same action is very important in the case of bedded
deposits. Why? In the Cemetery alluvial lead at
Kanowna (W.A.), which is about a mile long and in
which the gold was undoubtedly precipitated from
solution, there was something of much importance.
From Minter’s claim, 100 ft. long, with wash dirt
about 20ft. wide and 4ft. thick, £17,000 worth of
gold was taken, 10 p.c. of the gold being coarse grain,
with some nuggets up to 2oz. and, as “Prospector”
says, a lot of paint gold.
If all prospectors had a knowledge of the chemical
precipitation of gold, much useless work would be
avoided. Where comparatively recent and complete
denudation of patches of conglomerate (in which the
gold was the result of this action) has taken place,
the liberated gold is still in the surface soil, and,
having all the characteristics of reef gold, prospectors
unacquainted with the chemical action naturally
think that there is a reef or lode in the vicinity,
and so do a lot of work looking for the formation
that does not exist.


A
h
\r
/t
m
Chrysler “50”
K
Tourer
Coupe • Two Seater
Coach * Saloon
Landau Sedan
To some people the apprecia-
tion of what is fine and good
is instinctive—they are the
true connoisseurs.
To them the appeal of a Chry-
sler is literally irresistible. Not
alone because of its flashing
performance; its sheer beauty;
its artistry of colour or its ob-
vious luxuriousness—but be-
cause it emanates that true
feeling of lasting quality.
AUSTRALIAN AND NEW ZEALAND DISTRIBUTORS.
N.S.W.: Larke Neave & Carter Ltd., Grenville House, William Street, Sydney .
Vic.: Collins Motors Pty., Ltd., Chrysler House, Collins Street, Melbourne.
Qld.: Ward Motors Limited, Wickham Street, Brisbane.
Sth. Aust.: O. T. Rodda Motors Ltd., Flinders Street, Adelaide.
West. Aust.: William Attwood, 299-301 Murray Street, Perth.
Tas.: Distributors Pty., Ltd., 162 Collins Street, Hobart.
N.Z.: Todd Motor Company, 97 Courtenay Place, Wellington.
BUILT AS
ONLY
CHRYSLER
Lea
BUILDS


Usher’s Hotel Ltd.
Castlereagh Street, Sydney.
A first-class new and up-to-date
modern hotel.
Running hot and cold water in all bid-
rooms and many have Bath de Luxe.
Automatic bedside telephones.
English and Trench Cuisine.
New Marble Bar, spacious and airy.
For perfection of service, comfort
and cleanliness, Usher’s Ltd. is un-
equalled.
Inclusive Terms, apply
MANAGER.
ILillL
***.
<o
Him
■?yr>
isl
s
fflsv
a
ni
$>
Oft
NOiV
3IIPB »Hl Tit
NI9 GNVITOH
ano x«3 Aj
ioa
Also Bols Silver
Cap Dry Gin in the
Square Bottle with
Green Label.
The straw col-
our is p- oof of
its maturity
£7/
Jr
m
SYDNEY.
The Finest Restaurant and Dance
Re: dezvous in Australasia.
PATRONAGE CONTINUALLY INCREASING.
Capacity: Dining and Supper Dances up to 1000.
For Wedding Receptions, Banquets, Dining and
Supper Dances, inquiries to Manager.
Mon., Tues., Wed., Fri., Special Dining, 7.30,
12/6. Suppers 10 p.m., 7/6. Value and satis-
faction without equal. No charge for three
hours’ dancing on satin-smooth spring floors —
a new thrill of real delight.
Thurs. and Sat. Late Gala Nights. Continental
Dinner from 7.30, 21/-. Suppers, 10 p.m., 12/6.
This evening in London costs £2/2/- upwards.
PEERLESS ORCHESTRA OF TEN.
Bewitching Cabaret, afternoons and evenings.
Delightful Afternoon Teas. 3.30 to 5.30, 5!-
Parties of 6 upwards, 4/6; 12 upwards, 4/-
Two hours’ entertainment of sheer delight.
Order Wines before 6 p.m. Ring M. 5666.
PERSONAL
ITEMS
CLOBE
MEAT EXTRACT
GLOBE BRAND
Some August birthdays:—
Adelaide’s medico-Knight Joseph Verco, 76, on
Ist; R. B. McComas (Acting Chairman of Common-
wealth Bank), 65, on 2nd; Adelaide Lord Mayor
Wallace Bruce, 49, Archdeacon Charlton (Syd.), 67,
and Knight Edward Miller (Melb.), 79, on 3rd;
Federal Senate President Newlands, 63, and John
Scaddan (W.A.’s former Premier), 51, on 4th;
Norman W. Jolly (N.S.W. Forests Commissioner), 45,
on sth; Justice Isaacs (High Court), 72, Dr. W.
Chisholm (Syd.), 74, Knight Robt. M. McC. Anderson
(Syd.), 60, and Colonel A. H. Marks, C.B.E. (Q.),
47, on 6th; Knight Lennon Raws (Melb.), 49, and
poet E. J. Brady, 58, on 7th; Dr. Earle Page, 47,
and Alex. Poynton (ex-Federal Minister), 74, on Bth;
N.S.W. Chief Justice Street, 64, on 9th; P. E.
Deane (Prime Minister’s Dept.), 37, and Archdeacon
Adams (Jamestown, S.A.), 63, on 10th; ex-Gov.-Gen.
Tennyson, 75, and E. A. Mann, M.H.R., 53, on
11th; E. M. Baker (Headmaster King’s School,
Parramatta), 53, and Keith Murdoch (Melb. Herald),
42, on 12th; Major-Gen. Nevill Smyth, V.C., K.C.B.
(Balmoral, Vic.), 59, Dr. E. Morris Miller (Speck’s
Uni.), 46, and E. W. Holden, 42, on 14th; Bishop
Baker (Bendigo), 45, and poetess Mary Gilmore,
on 15th; Dr. H. Herman (Vic. State Electricity Com-
JUSTLY RAWLINGS, managing director
of Anthony Hordern and Sons, Ltd.
mission), 52, on 16th; S.A. Gov. Tom Bridges, 56,
and R. W. Foster, M.H.R., 71, on 20th; Bishop
Dwyer (Maitland), 69, on 21st; Federal Attorney-
Gen. Latham, 60, and former Federal Attorney-Gen.
Glynn, 72, on 25th; Prof. Angus (Syd. Uni.), 46,
Chas. Gavan Duffy (former Clerk of House of Reps.),
72, and President Dwyer (W.A. Arbitration Court),
52, on 27th; J. Spencer Brunton (Syd.), 66, and
Brig.-Gen. Cannan, 45, on 29th; Gov. Admiral de
Chair, 63, and Principal Ronald Macintyre, 64,
on 30th.
Commonwealth Parliamentary life is rough
on Senators from South Aus. The State
has had 21 elected Senators since 1901, and
12 are dead, though, of course, they didn't
all die in harness; Charlie McHugh, who
went aloft suddenly in Launceston at the
week-end was the twelfth. Only 40 when
the end came, McHugh was much younger
than the 11 who predeceased him—Baker,
Downer, Playford, McGregor, Russell, Senior,
Shannon, Guthrie, Vardon, Story and
OJLoghlin. By contrast, Westralia has had
15 elected Senators and they are all above
ground. The 15 are Stanifortli Smith, Har-
ney (now in the House of Commons), Ewing,
Pearce, Matheson, de Largie, Henderson,
Croft, Needham, Lynch, Buzacott, Drake-
Brockmau, Kingsmill, Graham and Carroll.
The appointment
of Sammy Lasker
as the Ma State’s
Acting - Director of
Education during S.
LI. Smith’s absence
abroad has pleased
the dominies. Las-
ker was born with
the teaching gift,
and is equally at
home in Latin,
modern languages
and literature. His
enthusiasm carried
him through the dis-
couragements of the
old regime, and with
a dozen years of de-
partmental service
remaining to him he
has time to reach
the top of the tree.
KNIGHT JOHN
MacFARLAND,
M.A., LL.D.,
Chancellor of the
Melbourne
University .
Just-dead John Garvan was full of bright
ideas. Between them he and Henry Gullett,
at the time one of his directors, worked out
a scheme for shifting the head office of his
co. right outside Sydney. He saw that great
English offices like the Norwich Union have
their headquarters in little country towns,
and he wanted to put up offices in, say, some
outer suburb, surrounded by 50 acres or so
of playing-grounds, into which all hands
might tumble from their desks. All that it
would be necessary to maintain right in the
city was a receiving office with three or four
clerks. Garvan and his lifelong colleague
Arthur Eedy were enthusiastic over the
scheme. But the staff wasn’t, and the re-
ception it gave the proposal drove Garvan,
who was really a very shy man, right back
into his shell.
The skipper of the Waipahi, a small
s'teamer trading between Auckland and the
Cook Islands, is able to talk better than most
men about wireless surgery. He fell ill on
a recent voyage and a wireless call was sent
out, asking the nearest ship for medical aid.
The m.o. of the warship Veronica got the
call, and, having diagnosed the symptoms,
wirelessed back instructions for an imme-
diate operation. The Waipahi’s steward and
chief engineer did the cutting and sewing
up, taking instructions through the ether
all the time; and the patient’s life was
saved.
Ivan Champion, the Papuan patrol-officer
whose location by a search party on the Fly
River lately caused rejoicing at Port Moresby,
is no stranger in the land. His dad, LI. W.
Champion, now Government Secretary, joined
the B.N.G. service in 1902, and Ivan was
born at “Port” two years later. With C. H.
Karius, a veteran of 34, he set out some
months ago on the most important patrol ever
undertaken in Papua, the crossing of the great
island at its widest part, including the pene-
tration of the 19,000 feet high massif of the
Victor Emanuel Range. Lack of supplies in
a desolate land turned the little party back.
Dividing forces, they took different routes
down the Upper Fly waterways. Karius
reached the river-mouth some weeks ago, but
all hands were getting anxious about his
mate -when the good news came through.
The foot of Progress, striding over Sydney’s
’Loo. is bringing down the small dwelling in
Little Bourke-street which Victor Daley occu-
pied and wherein other poets of the period
foregathered. Little Bourke-street was a
dingy neighborhood even then, and its inhabi-
tants got the shock of their lives when a
smart Government House orderly came riding
into the street and pulled up at Daley’s door.
He brought Victor an invitation to a meal
with Lord Beauchamp, who liked to be
friendly with poets; but Little Bourke-street
was not to know that, and thenceforward it
regarded Daley with cold suspicion.
A chequered career tails behind Nicholas
de Krassinlikoff, who recently landed in Perth
with the idea of becoming an orchardist. Be-
ginning as a member of the corps of imperial
pages at the court of the Romanoffs, he rose
to be commander of the Czar’s bodyguard and
helped to protect the British Embassy in
Moscow when the revolution broke out. Later
he and his family escaped to Esthonia, and
later still they went to England and America.
Now, in his old age, Nicholas is making an-
other start in life, in another strange land.
Clayton Freeling, the baronet who died
absolutely destitute near Ballarat the other
day, was the eighth successor to a title
created in 1828. His wife, whom he married
in 1913, separated from him in 1914 after
accompanying him to Australia. The lady is
now living in London, aged 75, on the old-
age pension. Freeling was her third hus-
band ; he was born in 1857. The heir to the
title is given as Charles Edward Luard, a
solicitor, who is 69.
Frank Capricornia Forde, the Common-
wealth Parliament’s champion letter-writer,
has a formidable rival in Harry Griffiths,
Cocky M.L.A. for Avon, Westralia. Between
March 22, 1924 —the day after he was elected
—and June 30, 1927, Griffiths wrote 7931 let-
ters to constituents, Ministers, editors and
others, nearly all with his own hand. He
lost the sight of an eye before he became a
politician, and friends have warned him re-
peatedly that he will go blind altogether if
lie doesn’t cut down his note issue at least 90
per cent. But he just grins and keeps on
writing.
On at least one occasion a meeting of
Vic. Executive Council was held at Melb.
Club. Governor Stanley, a member of the
club, presided, and the two Ministers in
attendance were “strangers.” Once when
Irvine, Lieut.-Gov., was wielding the rub-
ber stamp, the Executive Council assembled
at Golf House, Healesville, a paying-guest
place. A stationmaster’s office or a saloon
car on a travelling or stationary train has
been used as a te” porary chamber for the
Executive Council when orders have been
urgent.
Peacock, Bowser, Downward, Toutcher,
Prendergast and Lawson, of the Assembly,
and Sternberg and Payne, Leg. Councillors,
are the only old members of Vic. Parliament
who have gone back to the Spring-street
legislative building. Death and retirements
have removed the other 135 who were M’s.P.
in December, 1900.
At least one ex-flying- officer has turned
his wartime experience to business use. Bar-
rister E. E. Davies, of Swan Hill (Vic.),
regularly flics to his work, which lies in
courthouses scattered about his district.
Landings don’t worry him. There are pad-
docks galore. When he flits to Melbourne
he leaves his machine at the Essendon
’drome and gets done in a day what took
him three in his.times of earthly travel.
t J. 11. Stanley, Queensland Treasury’s
Under-Secretary, came to Sydney to prompt
Forgan Smith at the Premiers’ Conference.
Stanley’s name is a familiar one in the
Queensland civil service, for three separate
families bearing it have been connected with
the. State administration almost since its
beginning. All three original Stanleys were
engineers. The present Under-Secretary suc-
ceeded George Beal when the latter was pro-
moted to Auditor-General a couple of years
ago ; he has served all his working life in the
department he now heads, beginning as the
most junior of clerks. He is not very far
over the half-century yet.
Dead in England. Dr. Bryden Glendining,
one of the Dunedin (M.L.) family that
made such a lot of money in softgoods. When
Princess Ena of Battenberg was going to
Spain to marry King Alfonso, Glendining,
who had just finished his course at Edin-
burgh, got the job of medical attendant to
the princess’s party. He was close to his
charge when a bomb was hurled at the
royal pair on their return from the wedding
ceremony; he and some officers formed a
cordon round the princess. Dr. Glendining
remained two or three years at the Spanish
court.
Jones, Vic. Minister for Works, who is
fond of pictures, has suggested that Vic.
National Gallery should lend canvases,
changeable every few weeks, to Parliament
House to be hung in the spacious Queen’s
Hall. Leeper, President of the Gallery
trustees, is and it looks as if the idea
will catch on.
Maoriland has been fortunate in its Arbi-
tration Court personnel, and especially so in
the matter of employers’ representatives. W.,
Scott, who has retired after 20 years’ ser-
vice, regarded himself as a judge, not a par-
tisan. and the unions held him in high
esteem. He is succeeded by G. T. Booth
of Christchurch, one of the Dominion’s pio-
neer ironfounders and manufacturers of farm
implements. Booth’s reputation is that of
being as white a boss as there is in Fern-
land, and though he wms a founder and first
president of the employers’ association of
his province, and first president of the fed-
eration of such associations, there has never
been a bitter word said against him in Labor
circles. He’ll be 70 next year, but is
straight, strong and vigorous.
One of the Rockefeller scholarships has
been captured by C. E. Eddy, a graduate
of Melbourne Uni. He will go to Cambridge
to study under Ernest Rutherford, the Maori-
land-born seer of the unseen, who can tell
you within a digit how many billions of
electrons there are on the head of a pin.
Eddy has shown himself worthy by detect-
ing with the spectroscope impurities in zinc
of one in a million parts. Two in a hundred
was the previous record.
An act of forgiveness at the N.S.W. Labor
“unity” conference was the readmission of
Arthur Rae, one of the pioneers of the
movement. Rae was one of the fiery-cross
bearers in the maritime strike of 1889, and
assisted at the birth of the political Labor
Party that followed the upheaval. He went
into the Senate as a N.S.W. Labor rep.
with Jupp Gardiner and the late Allan Mc-
Dougall in 1910, and suffered eclipse in
1914 because lie took the party platform too
seriously and wanted to hasten a Socialist
millennium.
The next election in N.S.W., whenever
it occurs, will have to do without “The
Only” Jones, who has corruscated on such
occasions for nearly 30 years. He has
solemnly announced his withdrawal from
the political fray. Christened James, he
got his title of “The Only” by announcing
himself as “the only Independent” in a Syd-
ney by-election. At one election he got three
votes, and reached high-water mark in a
memorable fight in which he scored 27. But
he has been a source of pure joy to thou-
sands of electors.
Brigadier - General George Macarthur-
Onslow, appointed to the command of the
First Cavalry Division of the C.M.F., lives
at Murrandah, Camden (N.S.W.), where his
family connections dug in somewhere about
the beginnings of Australian history. He
went overseas in 1914 as second in command
of the 7th L.H. Regiment under Colonel
“Biscuits” Arnott, whom he succeeded.
Severely wounded in loading a charge of his
JAMES HERBERT DISNEY, M.L.C ,
Honorary Minister in Hogan’s Victorian
Ministry, who wants a sea tax on
travellers to overseas and inter-State
ports—£1 first-class and 10s. for second-
class.
regiment on Wellington Ridge at Romani,
Macarthur-Onslow later showed fine qualities
of leadership at Beersheba and in the count-
less other actions of the Palestine campaign.
When the Imperial Camel Brigade was dis-
banded in May, 1918, the Australian units
were formed into the 14th and 15th L.H.
Regiments; to these was added a mixed regi-
ment of French Bpahis and Chasseurs
D’Afrique, the whole being called the sth
Australian L.H. Brigade. Macarthur-Onslow
did some splendid work with them until the
Turks’ final crash in the Barada gorge, be-
yond Damascus.
A Chicago newspaper—the Daily News —
looked recently for the city’s richest citizen
and rather naturally found a Jew, one Julius
Rosenwald. His wealth was assessed at HO
million dollars, or approximately £22,000,000.
THE GATE.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“Hundreds of women from every part of Great
Britain, whose sons, husbands, and sweethearts died
at the Ypies salient, left London to attend the
unveiling of the new Menin Gate, Britain’s memorial
to 48,000 of the Empire’s sons who are buried in
nameless graves around Ypres.”
In countless memories imprinted deep,
On rolls of honor scattered here and there
Their graven names survive. But none may
weep
Over the men who sleep their last long-
sleep
We know not where.
No chiselled epitaph their records tell,
No gleaming stones that yew and cypress
hem,
The goodly company that fought and fell
With roaring guns for dirge and screaming
shell
For requiem.
Only the grass grows greener overhead,
Only beneath the wheatfield’s shadow-
waves
The regal poppy glows a deeper red.
Paying its summer tribute to the dead
In nameless graves.
Prom Empire’s ends they answered to the
call,
Whom life allied nor death could separate.
No crosses mark where mourners’ tears might
fall
For one and each. Alike for one and all
The Menin Gate.
N.S.W.
T. THE R.


ABDULLA THE CRACK!
THE FOAL.
“That’s a wonderful foal, Bill!—the best I’ve ever
bred. What shall we call him?”
“Well, Sir, he’s by ‘The Superb’ out of ‘Quality.’ ”
“I’ve got it, then, he shall be named ‘Abdulla’ after
these exquisite cigarettes.”
superb CIGARETTES
TURKISH EGYPTIAN VIRGINIA


Transport of the Wool
may give trouble. But the way for its sale is
clear of all care for growers if this step is taken:
SEND THE CLIP TO
WINCHCOMBE, CARSON
LTD.
Selling Brokers, Sydney or Brisbane.
A capable firm, energetic, reliable and successful.
ENGAGEMENT RINGS
Diamonds. Plati-
num ancl 18ot. Gold,
£27/10/-
The choice of an engagement ring is
naturally considered a matter of para-
mount importance.
For over eighty years Fairfax & Roberts
have been supplying rings of lasting
beauty and value at keenest prices.
Diamonds, Plati-
num and 18ct. Gold,
Diamonds, Plati-
num and 18ct. Gold,
£22/10/-
Diamonds, Plati-
num and ISct. Gold,
Diamonds, Plati-
num and 18ct. Gold,
Diamonds, Plati-
num and 18ct. Gold,
£l5/15/-
FAIRFAX & ROBERTS, LTD.,
The Oldest Jewellery House in Sydney, 23 and 25 Hunter Street.
PLAIN FIGUBES-
-CASH ONLY.
he healthy
drink
the finest
tonic food
drink
In A sizes
of all Chemists
and Stores
ABORIGIALITIES
MADE IN AUSTRALIA
BARNES-LINSEED OIL
“Keystring” : A lot of men came and went
while I was horse-driving for Hogan, and
everyone who left had the same tale—he had
been paid short. As I was frequently told
what a fine bhoy I was I hoped to fare
better. But when a final settlement was
due I was dealt with like the rest —Hogan
caught me for 275. Gd., explaining “Av
coorse, I’ll pay ye the balance later.” That
night I pinched his bells. Next day he
sent a man to inquire whether I knew where
they were. My answer was that I didn’t,
but if Hogan would offer a reward of 275.
(id. I might be able to find them. The
money was forthcoming, and I found the
bells. I have never worked for Hogan since,
but T am told lie refers to me admiringly as
“that red-headed Scotchman —the only ruddy
malm that iver ‘had’ me.”
“Toheroa”: To the attractions which the
tourist and the sportsman find Maoriland
is adding something of interest to ornitho-
logists and bird-lovers. This is the excursion
made annually by enthusiasts to the top-
most end of the North Island to witness
the departure of the kuakas (or godwits)
on their long flight to Northern Siberia.
When the time draws near these birds collect
from all parts of the Dominion on one of
the northern beaches, where the leaders of
the expedition marshal them. For days
before they go the beaches arc dark with
NOT ALL THAT IT MIGHT BE.
“Ah, Mr. Treloar, you'll soon be joining the Heavenly choir.”
“ Iss, but ’e ll be tumble 'ard ’avin' to gove up me ole trombone fur wan av they
tinklin’ ’arps."
tin' little migrants, and all the time small
flocks keep arriving to swell the throng.
The birds sleep on tin' long beaches in black
patches, and the few travellers in that lonely
region go quietly through the night for fear
of disturbing them. On the morning of
departure the leader rises from the immense
flocks, and, after circling several times, gives
a cry and flies north from the cliffs whence
the Maoris said the spirits of the departed
leapt into space. The great flocks of birds
follow, their beating wings sounding loudly
in the air, and their combined flight group-
ing into the semblance of a dark cloud in
the skies. A few only are left, the old, the
maimed and the very young. They watch
uneasily the exodus* of their kindred; and
then turn dejectedly to the land, there to
await the return of the clan.
* =!: * *
“Lagaui-Namo” : Whilst prospecting above
the clouds on the slopes of Mt. Lawson,
Papua, the Murcutt-Haddock party shot a
small brown bear. The animal weighed 501 b.
of 601 b., stood 3ft., and had two fairly pro-
minent exterior tusk-teeth, feet with decidedly
papillary soles and a well-developed tail.
The French Fathers at Yule Island got a
skin of a similar animal from the mists at
the back of Mekeo 20 years ago. Anyone
desiring to secure another will have to set
out prepared to clamber through jungly
mountains and gorges and ravines into the
hoop pine country at an altitude of some-
thing over 9000 feet.
* * *
“Ad Cap Vulgus”: One of our Papuan
house-boys was told to fill a hurricane-lamp.
He did; but first he went round the con-
tainer with a tin-opener. Being sacked with
contumely he got another house job, and
was told to fill the table kerosene-lamp. On
this too he operated with his tin-opener and
was profanely bundled out. Next morning
he turned up smiling with five hurricane-
lamps. These he had won at cards during
the previous night, and he now offered them
in reparation. More profanity, several
crashes, and a bewildered house-boy faded
into the distance.
“J. 5.8.”: We were talking of over-sized
vegetables when Dungaree Dick chipped in.
“Call them big pumpkins?” he snorted.
“Why, down on the Murray, where I come
from, anything under five hundredweight
wasn’t reckoned worth cartin’ in. Th’ big
gest one I ever seen, though, was a corker
wot grew near our ’ouse, right on th’ steep
bank of th’ river. That pumpkin grew that
quick it made yer giddy watcliin’ it. Th’
ole man got th’ axe an’ tried ’is dam’dest
ter cut th’ vine an’ settle it; but ’e didn't
'mvc Buckley's. Tie tiling was growiii’ too
fast fer ’im t’ "it it in th’ saint 1 place twice.
Nex’ thing we knob was a fearful bump
against th’ .’ouse, when we was ’avin’ din-
ner. Ivnowin’ wot was up, we clucked out
like scalded cats an’ was jist in time ter
see th’ ’ut disappear under th’ pumpkin.
No, that ain't all. After a minute or two
th’ ground give ’way an’ th’ blasted thing
rolled inter th’ river. It caused th’ biggest
Hood ever seen on th’ Murray.”
“V.11.K.”: The largest piece of “native
bread” that has come under my notice was
discovered near Burnie (Tas.) recently; it
weighed nearly 701 b.. and was a perfect
specimen of the black man’s food. A Tassy
farmer has advanced the theory that native
bread is the hardened sap of gum-trees, giv-
ing as his reason that lie has discovered
many loaves of it at the bases of old trees.
If this is so it upsets the accepted explana-
tion that the bread is a fungus growth.
Personally, it would take a lot to convince
me that it is the sap of trees. Singularly,
Mylitta australis is generally found on new
ground and adjacent to the roots of stringy-
bark, though I have never heard of the
fungus being connected with the roots. I
believe that this growth draws its nourish-
ment from decaying wood, and its general
appearance, especially its pure whiteness, is
not consistent with being the sap of
eucalypts.
“Pick”: Searching for foxes along Oak
Range on the Mouaro tableland (N.S.W.),
my hunting mate and I investigated the hol-
low of a broken tree stump that stood 12
feet from the ground. The cavity contained
a miniature pond of clear rain-water, and
splashing wildly round therein was a small
fish of the mountain minnow variety. Since
minnows can neither fly nor climb trees, how
did the finny wanderer arrive there? My
mate’s notion was that the fish had dropped
from the beak of a kingfisher.
“Raja”: There is a resident on Seal
Island (N.S.W.) with some of the character-
istics of “Pelorus Jack,” of Maoriland fame.
The skipper pointed him out to me as we
passed early one morning. He must be the
largest sea-lion on this coast, measuring fully
Oft. and sporting a big yellow mane. He
always occupies the same high, flat rock,
and on the steamer’s approach stands up
almost straight, waggles his flippers, does
a spectacular dive and swims towards the
boat. The skipper says he has been doing
this for 10 years.
(Continued on page 27.)
THE VALKYRIES OF THE NEVER-
NEVER.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Mick Dargin the breaker was dying;
Dry grass and gum-leaves was his bed;
His stock-whip and saddle and bridle
Were hung from a branch at his head.
Ilis old mate sat smoking and thinking—-
They’d travelled together for years—
And shading his eyes that *were blinking
With the glare, or it might have been
tears.
They had broken in horses together
When the land wore a mantle of green,
And had battled in all kinds of weather
When the country was hungry and lean ;
They were lovers of all kinds of horses,
Wild outlaws and brumbies that bolt.
\'ow Dargin the breaker was dying
Through a kick in the chest from a colt.
vll day the old fellow was silent;
There was moisture of death on his brow.
Then he turned and low whispered; “The
horses,
I can hear their wild galloping now.
They’re coming! I hear their loud snorting—
There’s the stallion’s whinny and neigh;
’fne sky is all golden and crimson
As it is at the breaking of day.
' The thud of their hoofs is like thunder
As it rumbles from distance afar;
The night breeze is sighing and moaning
As it sweeps- through a clump of belar.
lust prop my head up a bit higher;
Is there tea in the billy? I’m dry!
The horses! The horses! They’re coming!
Good God! they are crossing the sky.
"The stallion is turning the leaders
And rounding them up in a ring;
Wide open and red are his nostrils
And he moves with the pride of a king.
He is rearing and pawing and mouthing,
1 can see the black glint in his eye;
He bares his white teeth at a gelding
That swerves as it's galloping by.
LOST COUNT.
TENANT (to rent collector ): “Struth, is it Monday?”
"They're olf again! Lord, how they gallop !
They are led by a mare with a foal.
Flat out, they are racing to sunset
With the west o’ the sun for their goal.
All—prop me a little bit higher—
There’s a colt, that I broke in at Hay,
A speckled-backed filly from Boulia,
And our bony old outlaw, the grey.
"They are changing their course to the
southward,
But there seem to be clouds in their track,
Their pace is beginning to slacken ;
Ah, now they are cantering back.
I can see the white foam on their quarters,
Like a mist is the steam of their breath.
Look! There’s the black devil that kicked
me,
We called him “The Herald of Death.’
“They are walking again, now they’ve
halted—
Don’t move me, I’m right as I am.
There’s the colt that we fancied might
gallop,
With liis head in the flank of his dam.
That white-stockinged chestnut that’s roll-
. , in §'»
He’ll lead off when he springs to his feet,
He was bred away out on the Cooper,
He’s as shy as a hare, and as fleet.
“Now they’re loping away at a canter;
The stallion springs off, and then wheels,
They are fading away in the distance,
There's a mist rising up from their heels.
They all have passed on, and I’m going
Lest my eyesight grows dim, or it fails.
Hold me up, hold me up. Ah ! that’s better,
I can just see the sheen of their tails.
“They’re away now. I can’t hear or see
them.
There’s a cloud that is darker than night,
But over the ridge in the mulga.
There’s a star that is wonderful bright.
Quick, hand me the billy, I’m choking....
Leave it there on that flat sheet of bark. .. .
Your hand, Bill, your hand, let me grasp it.
Bill, I’m going and, God, it is dark!”
N.S.W.
JIM GRAHAME.


w
A
IN
A
v,
I t
-
A
w
c.
********
m
;vAA>
,# s*
M
VN\\ vn^^\\\vv Nxv>^
#4V
iSWii
J «®smsiSSSsS' §§§;X
*ss
ISSSX
!
Sv 35SS^SSSSSSSSSSSSSS&
v m«j
&
•SNSSSSSS
SS***NSSS*X
1 !|
V l 1
'”*****X'
'tw
''V»
XV.
SScv^fc
, %xw .
XgAX
"Vvv**^
The New Brockway Junior
25cwt. Heavy Duty speed Truck
AT LAST a REAL 25cwt. Truck—a light, tough, speedy 25cwt.
machine—a Truck built for hard Truck work—and built as only
Brockv/ay know how to build.
Pep—Power—Performance at low operating cost—that is the
Brockway ‘ Junior.”
Brockway started building Commercial Waggons in 1875.
To-day Brockway still specialise in Commercial Haulage—not cars
and' Trucks—but Trucks alone.
Specialisation means a better job.
Therefore the 25cwt. “Junior” built by Truck specialists and
e mbodying a strong powerful. TRUCK Motor—NOT a 7-pascenger
Car Engine!—must serve you best.
Five cross members
prevent frame
trouble !
Cot^P
already
famous for its
unrivalled low to ad in j linei
The Brockway Junior is Real Truck Value—
UNSURPASSED!
r*
THE RIGHT WAY
n
Motor
T rucKs
AGENTS
SYDNEY: Brockway Motors, Ltd.
MELBOURNE: Ronaldson Bros. & Tippett Pty., Ltd.
ADELAIDE: Campbell & Worthington, Ltd.
BRISBANE: Brisbane Motor Co., Ltd.
PERTH: Associated Motors, Ltd.
AUCKLAND: Denton & Co-
NAPIER: Anderson & Hansen, Ltd.


I've tried
REX-PYE
r =»
as a
Hot Dish.
delicious.
Nc
a
I« •
K I
1»
5 >
2 c
£ 2
You like REX-PYE cold.
Now try it as a hot dish.
No bones, no waste —iust perfect wholesome meat
in jelly, every morsel eatable and delicious !
Punch a small hcle in the bottom of the hygienic can,
cut around the can just below the top edge and the
REX-PYE falls on the dish in a compact shape,
easily cut into slices. Note its delicate appetising
aroma.
A delicious lunch prepared in a moment —REX-PYE
served with salad! You’ll like it with mint sauce,
too. And it is equally as tasty, wholesome and
delicious WHEN EATEN HOT. Just place the
can in boiling water for about twenty minutes and
serve the steaming contents with the ordinary vege-
tables fo r dinner. Or turn the REX-PYE cold into
a dish and bake with a covering of paste or potatoes.
REX-PYE, in lib and }41b cans, is the finest meat in
the world.
Always say REX-PYE.
REX-PYE
Foggitt Jones Ltd.
Curers of the choice REX Hams and Bacon.
c^epc


Visitors to Brisbane! Book up at the
HOTEL CECIL
(FTRST CLASS)
Reasonable Tariff—Good Position.
gd
“CLYDE
BATTERIES”
For RADIO, MOTOR-CARS AND
COUNTRY HOME LIGHTING.
THE CLYDE ENGINEERING COMPANY, Ltd.,
Granville; and Goulburn Street, Sydney, N.S.W.
QN
BANK
THE QUEENSLAND NATIONAL BANK, LIMITED.
Incorporated under the Companies Act 1863. Established 1872.
Directors —A. C. Luya, Esq., Chairman; James Love, Esq.; W. H. Hart, Esq.;
M. j. Ryan, Esq.; D. W. Macdonald, Esq.
General Manager —M. G. HAYMEN.
HEAD OFFICE BRISBANE
With offices at London, Canberra (Federal Territory), Melbourne, Sydney, and
95 branches in Queensland and Northern Rivers, N. S. Wales, also representation
through the leading Banking Institutions covering Australasia and the. World, this
Bank offers the .fullest facilities for the transaction of all general banking business.
TUDOR
ACCUMULATORS
for Reliability and Long Life.
Australasian Office—
TUDOR ACCUMULATOR CO., LTD.,
Culwulla Chambers, Castlereagh Street, SYDNEY.
“Werrimee”: The man on the wallaby
almost invariably makes his night-camp
under a tree. On a plain, though he may
be following a road where there is driftwood
to boil the billy and a gilg'hi to fill it, he
will continue walking after dark to get to
a tree. Very rarely is he found dossing in
an open space where there are no trees, un-
less there is a fence or a stump or a log
there. The tree seems to be more homely,
even though it affords practically no night
shelter, and sometimes there are risks about
it: limbs might snap in a wind or a snake
might be roosting at the root. But that
doesn’t enter into the wanderer’s calcula-
tions. He regards it as a friend. But where
he has a choice, lie is particular about the
tree he camps under, and might pass a hun-
dred before lie finds one where the prospect
pleases. And that same tree is chosen by
hundreds of travellers, as though it held out
a sign or invitation to “doss here.”
COMING AND GOING.
YANKEE VISITOR: “’Way back home we’ve got to see a doctor
before we can have a drink.”
AUSSIE HOST: “And, I understand., generally after you’ve had,
it, too.”
“Diarmid” : Like “Te Hipi” (B. 30/6/’27),
I have seen a white cuckoo. My bird was
of the bronze variety, but the adjective did
not apply to him ; he was pure white. And
very lovely the little fellow looked as he
fluttered in the tea-tree with the lively and
rather restless manners of his kind. In
some birds albinism must be common; for
instance, our wdiite goshawk, while considered
a separate species, is really the albino form
of the grey goshawk.
* =!= * *
“Sue Shannon” : Looking for cattle in the
cold country of Tasmania, we passed Pine
Lake. It was frozen over with a foot of
loose snow covering the ice. Noticing the
dogs snuffling among the snow, we investi-
gated. The cause of their excitement was
the noise made by trout under the ice jump-
ing up and banging against the roof. Were
they wanting air? Further on we dug out
an eel which was encased in ice. It appeared
to be dead, but when the ice melted by the
fire the wriggler came to life.
* * * *
“Up Top”: The pig has an acute sense
of smell and a dog-like capacity for using it.
Overland telegraph linesmen at their camp
in the Mad ionnell Ranges reared a number of
piglets which became an encum-
brance on account of the
scarcity of tucker for them. The
men took them a few miles into
the bush and let them loose on
a patch of country containing
plenty of wild feed. Two days
later, while at dinner, they
heard a delighted squealing and
saw a line of pigs hurrying down
the bridle track. They took the
same pigs, trussed on pack-
saddles, still' further into the
bush and left them. In a few
days the unwanted guests were
back in camp, having smelt
their way home along the pack-
horse trail. Yet again they
were taken miles away, this
time into a thick scrub, through
which ran a broad creek. They
were carried a considerable dis-
tance down the bed of the
stream before being let go and
given a “hurry-up scatter” on
the opposite bank. A week later two reported
to camp. The water had beaten the others.
* * :|:
“Swallow Tale”: The swallows have not
migrated from our mid-Victorian district this
winter. Several usually roost on a rafter
immediately below the iron roof of our
dairy. One morning during the recent severe
frosts my father found two of them frozen
to the roof. lie liberated them, and while
doing so found feathers stuck to the iron be-
side them. Other swallows had evidently
roosted there and had been obliged to sacri-
fice their feathers to get away.
* *i* . * *
“Gouger”: Recently old Maino, the last
mamoose of War-
rior Island, picked
up a skull upon
the beach an d
buried it above
high-water mark,
denoting its rest-
ing place with a boo
shell. Maino knew
the skull; it was
that of Captain
Banner, black-
bearded giant of
the South Seas. In
the schooner Wood-
lark Banner
anchored off War-
rior Island at a
time when the
natives would eat
a man down to his
toenails. At a cere-
monial dance the
islanders wore
ornaments of
mother - o’ - pearl.
Banner asked casu-
ally where the shell
had come from.
Thus opened the
famous Warrior
and Wappa reefs,
and in the rush
which followed the
great shell beds of
Torres Strait were
discovered. Banner,
with many other
fine men, gave his
life to the islands;
a slash from the
knife of a Tanna
man was his finish.
Sydney friends
erected a stone to
his memory. When
the stone fell,
Maros, chief of
Ugar, carried it to
Ugar for his own
monument, and
there the remains of it now are.
; ! ; -I : '2'
“V.H.R.” : “Jimmy Possum” (B. 30/6/’27)
is off the track in his statement that bul-
lockies use young myrtle sticks for whip-
handles ; he is surely confusing myrtle with
sassafras, unless the Bananaland myrtle is
very different from the one that grows in
Tassy. Myrtles are not, as a general rule,
noted for their straightness, nor do the
branches grow with the regularity which
strikes “J.P.” On the other hand, sassafras
is as straight as a dart, and its branches
grow from the stem with the symmetry of
a Norfolk Island pine. I have known Tas.
bullock-drivers go to no end of trouble to
get the sassy, but have never seen myrtle
used, although the Speck has some of the
ALWAYS THINKING OF OTHERS.
“Get a dustcoat, old man. You’ll be surprised how it’ll save your clothes."
biggest forests of the species in the Com-
monwealth. A use to which myrtle is put
is the making of heels for women's foot-
wear. The Speck ships hundreds of thou-
sands of feet annually for that purpose ex-
pressly. And there is no better dancing-
floor than one made of the pink-colored wood.
* =l= * *
“Momokeni” : Pelicans provide more than
the downy skin “The Welkin” (B. 30/(i/’27 I
writes of. I have had many a savory meal
of pelican’s breast. Skinned, filleted and the
two sides tied together, with a thick layer of
sage and onion stuffing between, then baked
in a camp oven with taro and served up
with a mock-apple sauce of green pawpaw,
it provides a dish for a king. Finish up the
meal with a turtle-egg custard in a green
cocoanut shell, with a shred or two of nut
clinging to the sides, and you have a ban-
quet fit for Lucullus. But don’t ti\y to eat
the cold remains for breakfast, or the nau-
seating fishiness of the first mouthful may
cause you to forswear pelican for ever.
Pelican feathers make a down quilt almost
as good as eider-down, and pillows stuffed
with them are of fairy lightness.
* * * =!=
“C. Coral”: There has been an epidemic
of housebuilding in Torres Strait. The front
door of a just-completed leaf-and-iron resi-
dence was decorated with this notice:
“Now, please: (1) The rule for this
new house. (2) House must be kept cleau
inside. (3) And also the yard must be kept
clean and good. (4) And barander (ver-
andah) must not keep rabise (rubbish)
and things not fit for the barander. (5)
And inside mast not keep rabise, mast be
tied up good. (6) Also the kitishin masc
be clean in order every time. This six rule
mast be don on every six days as possable.
I speaking Jimmy Maka.” I asked Jimmy
to whom the notice applied. “Oh,” he re-
plied, “I tell my wife she got read that
notice every day so she no forget!”
He J'i 4 He
“The Trumper”: According to “Up Top”
(B. 23/6./’27) it is rather uncommon to see. a
snake well-lined with fat. Most of the big
"carpets” that I knocked out at the end of
the warm months had solid rolls of pig-like
fat, feet long, on both sides of the backbone.
When rendered down by the heat of the sun
snake fat resembles lard, and there is nothing
objectionable in its odor. As with a num-
ber of other bush unguents, carpet-snake oil is
believed by some to have virtue in the treat-
ment of rheumatism. Its most common use
is as a softener for sun-baked bluchers or as
a lubricant for rusty rifles.
He * ❖ *
“Eau-de”: Old German Harry, who lives
on Deliverance Island, one of the most
isolated spots in Torres Strait, was told by
the crew of a lugger in October, 1914, that
a great war was on and that the pearling
fleet would be “laying up” until it was over.
Harry used very little of the civilised world’s
goods but among that little were matches.
As he had not many left he determined to
conserve them for emergencies and kept his
fire going without a break until the begin-
ning of 1919, when a bird-of-paradise shooter
from Dutch New Guinea told him the war
was over. He was .in such a talkative mood
at this news from the outside world that
his untended fire went out, its long spell
of duty done.
* * * . *
“Sea Nomad”: The gardens of the sea
flaunt their nettles as well as their weirdly-
beautiful flowers. A pest detested by the
beche-de-mer skin-divers is the porcupine
nettle, found principally along the bottom
of Queensland’s n.-e. coast sea. It grows
in somewhat the shape of a porcupine and
with prickles similar to its quills. The
prickles are in color either black or black
with a grey tip. A touch from them means
a severe sting, followed by pain such as
that inflicted by the giant nettle of the
scrubs. Another pest is a greyish seaweed
much resembling maidenhair fern. Its dainty
leaves are armed with minute spikes which,
after stinging a man, can be seen through
a magnifying-glass adhering to his body.
Occasionally the cable connecting Thursday
Island with Cape York has to be lifted for
repairs, and experience has taught the cable-
men to be wary of all suspicious-looking
seaweed twining round the news-transmitter.
* * *! : *
“X2X”: A very interesting problem which
science has .not yet solved is the exact mech-
anism by which the coloring of a bird’s egg
is deposited on the outer shell. Roughly
speaking, the pigments fall into two classes,
the melanehromes, whose origin is in sub-
stances derived from the blood, and lipo-
chromcs, which have their origin in certain
fats. Examination has disclosed that the
pigments do not permeate the structure of
the shell, but are entirely superficial, as if put
on with a brush. In view of the fact that
they are often moist on a new-laid egg, this
would seem to indicate that they come from
glands and are applied just before the egg
leaves the bird’s body. Yet these glands have
never been definitely identified; although
bodies have been located which might pos-
sibly be them, positive evidence on the point
is lacking.
ij: ❖ ❖ 'Y
“Biliai”: In the Gulf Division, Papua,
when it is getting towards time for the
saruvera (sea-mullet) to ascend the rivers to
spawn, canoes and nets are furbished up by
the natives and smoke-houses are erected near
the river mouths along a 75-mile stretch of
coast. Natives who live on the coast, and
not at the river mouths, pay for the right to
join in the netting. A watch is set and when
the fish, in countless hordes, start to run, the
rivers are black with fishers: and for several
days and nights there is little time for cither
eating or sleeping. About midway in this
stretch of coast is a bay with three rivers
emptying into it, but the saravera never enter
here, nor do they enter the Popo River, fur-
ther east. It is strange that the fish always
come to the same part of the coast.
YISTERDEE.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
M hen your goal is won, and you dump your
swag at the end of the long hard tramp,
To share the scran and to hear the tales of
the boys of the out-back camp.
It’s safe to bet that someone will say, and
the rest of the chaps agree:
"But. blimey, I tell you, you missed some
fun not bein’ ’ere yisterdee.”
It was yesterday that old Mick went mad and
shouted for all the mob,
It was yesterday that Bill broke his leg and
Jonesy rung in the nob.
Oh ! there isn’t a doubt that a day of days
was that glorious “yisterdee.”
There was something happening all the while
—and a bloke wasn’t there to see.
To-day there is nothing that’s worth a damn
and to-morrow, well, who can tell?
But it’s clear that we can’t expect a lot
when yesterday served so well.
And by all the signs it is long we’ll wait
ere a day like that we’ll see—
Oh ! our luck is out when we miss the smile
on the face of “yisterdee.”
To-morrow the same old sun will rise, and
the flowers will bloom again.
To-morrow will bring us the same old tales
of horses and maids and men.
But there’ll be little,i 1 fear, to hear and
rather less to see
< 'ompared with the things that were said
and done on that wonderful “yisterdee.”
N.S.AV.
OSCAR WALTERS.


Queensland
Insurance Co.
Ltd.
Head Offices
Pitt & Bridge Streets,
Sydney.
The Largest
Australian Company
transacting
Fire, Marine, Personal
Accident and Sickness,
Burglary, Live Stock,
Public Risk, Boiler Ex-
plosion, Workers’ Com-
pensation, etc., etc.
im
T
u
w&vncst
CIO!
METAL GATES
ANDFENCES
The
Original
Make
fg
Depend-
able and
Durable
Cyclone Ornamental Fabric Fencing is practically everlasting. The
crimped wire pickets of No. 8 gauge are heavily galvanised, and
never require painting. Cyclone Metal Gates can be had to match
the fence. Cyclone Catalogues will be posted free on request.
CYCLONE FENCE AND GATE CO. PTY. LTD.
COMMERCE BUILDING. ASH STREET (off 350 George St.), SYDNI. < ;
189-191 William Street. Melbourne; Exchange Buildings. Pirie_Stm^_Anelaule :j _
HENDERSON’S
WHIPS
Famous Throughout Australia.
Cost a Few Shillings More but
Reckon the Ultimate Saving.
A Genuine “HENDERSON”
Bft. 12-Plait Double Whip,
Complete, 42/6.
7ft. . . . 40/- 9ft. . . . 467-
PERFECT FALLING.
SATISFACTION GUARANTEED.
Postage Paid Anywhere in Australia.
Add Exchange to Cheques.
T. Henderson § Sons,
Whipmakers,
313 GEORGE ST., SYDNEY, N.S.W.
THE MAN
ON THE LAND'S
PAGE
SOIL RENOVATION.
“L’Fou”: No country has yet succeeded
in building up a permanent agriculture. It
is the business of agriculture to deplete
the soil. It is the business (a difficult one)
of the good farmer to replenish it. The
Australian farmer cheerfully faces heavy
outlay on chemical fertilisers of the few
well-known and tried varieties. There is
probably the equivalent of a virgin country
in untried combinations* of materials already
to hand.
Meantime there goes on, on most small
farms, a great waste of natural manures.
The greatest waste, probably, is of farmyard
manure, which is quite commonly reduced to
one half its value by exposure to weather.
The European peasant would stand aghast
at such extravagance. The burning of
humus (leaves, etc.) is another agrarian
crime not always justified by mechanical
expediency. Old bones which accumulate
about the farm are a manorial asset. Yet
seldom is any systematic use made of them.
At the time of her agricultural renaissance,
more than a century ago, England was called
by the chemist Liebig “the vampire of the
world.” She was then actively engaged in
importing old bones from all Europe and
reducing them to agricultural fertiliser with
good results. On a Vic. farm whose soil
was so deficient that all cows thereon became
cripples or died, the owner adopted the
policy of buying or stealing bones wherever
lie could. These were ground in a small
mill and distributed over the fields. By this
means alone the character of the land was
changed in a few years. Its official valua-
tion is £lB an acre against £4 or £5 for
untreated land adjoining.
For garden use a pit may be dug about
12 or 18 inches deep in *open ground. Bury
bones and wood-ashes in equal layers. Usu-
ally they will be reduced to a crumbly mass
in 12 months.
PHOSPHATES AND LAMBINGS.
“N.M.L.”: “W.D.P.” (B. 9/6/’27) may
or may not be right in liis statement in
reference to restoring phosphates to poor
grazing land. But he is out when he says
that low lambings are the result of such
lack of phosphates. Certain areas are noted
for large percentages, and certain areas have
never been lambing country. Areas about
St. George (S.Q.) used to have big mark-
ings in the long ago. There has never been
any top-dressing of the land, and that coun-
try still lias big drops and, what is more
to the point, big weanings. The country
about the Barcaldine district, never top-
dressed or the sheep provided with licks,
except in isolated instances which do not
count, has for the past 20 years marked,
and still does mark and wean, over 80 per
cent. Those percentages are, of course, on
the supposition that the ewes and rams are
given decent conditions, and that the lambs
also get a square deal. Against that we can
take some of the Flinders country. There,
south of the railway and over to the Diaman-
tina, 40 per cent, is a shade above the average.
That country never has marked big drops.
It's a sound country, a bit shy of saline
herbs; but the stock on it do not look for
licks. It must be fair stuff, and dry sheep
fatten readily.
One of the first essentials for good lamb-
ings is a shade country, and more particu-
larly one in which there is a prospect of
winter rains. On the open downs country,
the Flinders above-mentioned, the lambs don’t
get a chance. Further, and this is the main
thing, the rams are not in condition to work
to advantage at the only decent joining time
of the year—September to November. By
joining then the lambs are dropped after the
wet season, when their mothers are strong
and in good heart. That gives the lamb a
start in life. More favored districts join
the rams for lambs to drop about the begin-
ning of winter. If there is a winter rain,
that gives the lamb, through his mother, a
flying start. And it also ensures the rams
the heart to work when put with the ewes.
Before any man starts playing monkey-
tricks with the natural pastures of the West
he should study the Mitchell grass. A few
years ago Isis Downs (C.Q.) top-dressed
a large area with super. The result hasn’t
been broadcast; but it is significant that
there hasn’t been any rush to follow the
example. The pastoral areas of Queensland
are good for a long time yet. Study the
sheep and give them proper conditions and
they’ll respond to the best of their ability.
Instead of blaming the country, it may be
more fitting to reflect that the constitution
of the sheep hasn't -been receiving the atten-
tion which is due to it. Wool, wool, wool
and more wool has been the only thing
which mattered. The result is, and I know,
that sheep aren’t within cooee of being the
hardy animals they were, say, 15 years back.
TO SPREAD FARMYARD MANURE.
"Kai te Kuri”: The best and least-used
man’ure can be spread evenly over any
ploughable paddock at a very moderate
cost. Compared with the price of distribu-
ting artificial manures, the outlay is insigni-
ficant and the first cost is the biggest, little
as it is. Artificial manure costs are heavy
and they recur every year. Farmyard
manure costs nothing but the labor of accu-
mulating it for use. The manure from the
bail, the sheepyard and shearing-shed or
the fowlliouse is easily accessible, but is
usually wasted.
Procure, if possible, a street watering-
cart of the revolving-disc type, and enlarge
the holes leading to the discs so that they
will pass a good flow of fairly thick liquid
manure. Fit suitable plugs to these holes.
Construct in the tank, if you can get at it,
a paddle-wheel like that found in the ordi-
nary hand churn, and link it, on the ratchet
principle, to the spokes of the wheel. Fill
up the tank with enough manure and water
to make a suitable mixture (a few experi-
ments will soon decide this), and drive
out to the paddock. Pull out: the plugs
and drive round; the churn inside will have'
stirred up the manure and water to a thin
porridge and the discs will do the rest.
If a suitable watering-cart is not. avail-
able a good substitute; can be made with
a strong, round iron tank, mounted on a
pair of cart-wheels. Run the axle through
the tank lengthways; bolt it to a frame on
which are fitted a pair of shafts. Fit the
churn as before. Make a couple of iron
discs with two upright iron plates rivetted
on to them. Screw a bolt into the centre
of each disc and fasten under the tank.
Drive two holes in the tank so that the
liquid will fall on the discs; fit the plugs.
Ratchet or gear the discs to the wheels so
that they will be made to revolve at a fair
speed, and your machine is ready.
THREE SILAGE ESSENTIALS.
“C.J.H.”: For success with silage three
main rules must be observed: —
(1) It must be of nutritious plants which in a
green state would be suitable, for the stock for
which it is intended.
(2) It must be placed in the pit immediately
after it has been cut, and must be young, with the
nutritive qualities evenly distributed throughout the
plant.
(3) The pit must be air-tight, and in most soils
nothing less than 6ft. of earth between the silage
and the air will ensure this.
After 30 years in the western country of N.
S. Wales I am convinced that by means of
silage-pits the theories of Professor Griffith
Taylor can be utterly confounded and Aus-
tralia made to carry 120,000,000 people living
under conditions better than those now pre-
vailing. Ewes fed continuously on any other
artificial fodder will not lamb and rear their
lambs as they do on good silage. With sum-
mer fallow and silage pits is there any large
area, except mountains, in Australia where
good stocks of fodder for sheep or cattle
could not be cheaply and profitably con-
served ?
THE BLAiCKBERRY FARM.
“RXB”: A word of warning before you
spend £4 per acre on applying arsenic and
caustic-soda to your blackberry, as suggested
by “J.M.R.” (B. 30,/6/’27). The percentage
of kill depends entirely on the age of the
growth; and the mixture does not kill the
deepest roots. A recent landslide on a cliff-
face gave me roots up to 30ft. in length. And
it will kill everything else; patches I treated
three years ago by this method are still as
bare as the road. I have also tried the 30
other methods referred to, and more, but they
are no good ; but I hope soon to be able to
offer a method of electrocution that will do
the trick if I can make it cheap enough to
apply.
Meantime, keeping the growth chipped
down is the only cheap and effective way.
Don’t dig with the mattock—that is only
cultivating it. Use a sharp hoe and chip
the growth off level with the ground as
often as you can, but especially when it is
flowering. It will give up the ghost eventu-
ally. Goats are no good unless the beny
has been brushed to the ground level and
the beasts are grazed on the new growth,
you must stock the paddock heavily ant
have very sound fences. But sheep will do
as well, and the butcher will buy the sheep.
If anyone knows of a cheaper and more
effective way of eradicating blackberry than
by persistent chipping, let him say so; and
don’t forget to tell Tillyard at the iaw-
thron Institute (MX.), who has £10,1)00 to
give it you can prove your claim. But
offer a cheap method and not one that will
poison the ground for keeps.
Now what about bracken?
HORSE-ITCH.
“The Amateur Gentleman" : The humid
conditions of the coast favor the growth of
the itch louse or parasite. Keep a horse
where he cannot rub himself, groom him
regularly and he will show no traces of the
complaint; turn him loose in the spring or
summer and in a week lie will be "lousy.
About 15 years ago circumstances com-
pelled me to shift from the N.S.W. North
Coast to the Tableland, and because I could
not bring myself to part with a well-bred
but very itchy mare I took her. _ Almost
immediately she began to lose the itch and
in a month’s time had a better coat than
ever, and during my sojourn in that district
there was no recurrence of the trouble.
You may take harness from an itchy horse
and use it on a clean one without infecting
him; but let a clean horse bite or mouth
an itchy horse —-quite a common thing on
a humid day on tin; coast —and in a little
time the clean horse begins to show signs
of the trouble. Some horses appear to be
immune, but this immunity is not trans-
mitted from sire or dam to progeny.
There is more than a competence awaiting
the man who can put a guaranteed-not-to-fail
itch specific on the market.
SIIEEP-BLOAT.
“R. Mort”: This is the season when
graziers find their sheep suffering from bloat.
Jumbucks should be introduced gradually
to succulent green feed. A quick remedy
for getting rid of the gas is a drench of
1 pint milk, I teaspoonful kerosene and 1
tablespoonful bi-carbonate of soda, well
mixed. A lick of two parts salt to one of
lime is advisable when bloat is prevalent.
In severe cases 2 teaspoonfuls of aromatic
spirits of ammonia and the same of turpen-
tine in raw linseed oil is an effective drench.
CANARY STAIN.
“R, E. Combing’’; Queensland wool this
season was comparatively free from “canary
stain,” and for that reason was appreciated
by the buyers. Westralian wool, on the
other hand, -was badly affected, and the
trouble was not well handled either. The
real canary stain is a pale yellow discolora-
tion whicli Will not wash out; and care
should always be taken to keep it separate.
There seems to be no means of avoiding the
growth of some of this bothersome stuff
in some districts, but it is chiefly character-
istic of the tropical or sub-tropical wool-
growing areas. No definite cause can be
assigned for it, but probably it is due to
excessive heat on top of heavy rain. As
it. has been shown that the stain goes right
through the substance of the fibre, it: is
probably caused by some chemical reaction
within the body of the wool itself. Some-
times the quality of the wool is affected, but
not often that I have seen.
WOOL-SELLING FIXTURES.
“Trepex”: The programme fixed for the
next Australian wool-selling season by the
conference of pastoral interests in Adelaide
caters for another big clip and another good
market. Both ideas are well grounded, but
it is more than doubtful if the N. S. Wales
clip will be anything like as big as the last.
Quite apart from the dry times experienced
in so many places, sheep will not grow two
record clips in successive seasons even under
the same conditions any more than land will
give two record crops. Still, the clip will
be a big one and the market, if anything,
should be a little better.
The continuity of Sydney selling has still
to be broken to allow of the periodic visit
of the buyers to the Brisbane market. The
northern centre is quite big enough to exist
by itself and to w r ork independently of Syd-
ney. Also there is a big enough profit in
wool-buying to allow of the establishment
of separate offices up there. As matters
stand, the one set of buyers have too much
work to do to value the wool in both places,
and a good deal of the staple does not receive
proper attention.
EVER POISONED THIS WAY?
“Waimea”; Yarning at the ram sales in
Sydney, the question of poisoning foxes
came up. One of the old stagers claimed
to have had splendid success with a method
that was new to the rest of us. He melts
down some fat and mixes strychnine with
it while it is still in its liquid form; then
he pours the mixture into an old bullock
horn, where he allows it to set hard. When
that is done he saws the horn into pieces
and distributes them as required. Brer
Pox falls quite easily.
EDIBLE SCRUBS.
“E.J.D.”: Recently a writer asked for
experiences of scrub feeding. Here’s mine.
After 12 months’ scrubbing in the Mudgee
district (N.S.W.) in the 1901-02 drought,
and seeing the last of the stock die, I went
to the Trangie district and helped to feed
what was left of 150,000 sheep on boiled
wheat and other costly fodders. About
100,000 sheep had thrown it in on scrub
feed. They had been on it too long. Scrub
cutting had been going on for I<S months.
Oak scrub, which was about all that was
left, contains very little nourishment, and
is woody. This causes stock to become
impacted ; death follows. If they are given
an occasional gorge on bran mash or the
like thev will live through almost any
drought. This food should be given in bag
feeders. Sheep will line up to these like
racehorses.
She-oak is good; stock thrive on it. White
box, though slightly tart, has a fair amount
of moisture, and sheep do well on it. On
wilga (bitter taste, little moisture) sheep
do well for a time; it should be flogged
from the tree with a whip having a wire
lash. “Apple”—cattle do well on some of it;
others they won’t eat. Sheep will rarely
eat pine on the first day of felling; they
prefer it on the second or third day after.
Oak, with its bitter taste, is dry and woody,
but useful for short periods. Some species
of wattle are good cattle feed. Kurrajong
is good all-round feed, though I’ve known
starving horses to refuse it. White cedar
has a bitter taste, -but is good all-round
feed. .
The best tree of all is the acacia, which
grows well on the dry sand ridges and better
soils, but loses its leaves in the autumn. It
tastes like lucerne, holds plenty of moisture,
but must be protected from stock whilst
growing.
There are districts, of course, with other
scrub, edible and inedible; I write only
of tin' central and west-central districts of
N. S. Wales, which I know.
TIPS FOR FENCERS.
“Allambec”: My method of fixing the
wires on droppers is with No. 8 wire—the
harder the better —bent double, cotter-pin
fashion. Bore the droppers with a half-
inch bit. Bend the wire double and cut it
so that the “cotter-pin” is from one to two
inches longer than the thickness of the
dropper. Put it round the fence wire, drive
it through the dropper and hammer the pro-
jecting ends in opposite directions. The
only tool necessary is a pair of heavy fencing
pliers; they are strong enough to do the ham-
mering. Wires fixed on this way .will stand
all the shoving that horses or dairy cows
will give it, and are quite free to strain
when the fence is slack. To keep the dropper
in place it is better to cut the pin for the
top wire longer, bring the ends round the
dropper and twitch them on to the fence
wire.
“A.C.W.” : For running fencing wire, cut
a heavy fork from a box-tree and bore three
holes for pegs to hold the coil of wire. Get
four springy sticks about 10ft. long (mallee
sticks are the best), and insert these in
other holes so that the wire will “concertina”
along them as it runs out. Stand the fork
up against a post and start pulling the wire
through. The mallee sticks check the wire
sufficiently to prevent it tangling, while their
springiness causes it to shake free as it is
pulled. I have found this one-man outfit
far superior to the “spinning-jinny.” Put
an eye-bolt in the end of the fork for
attaching a swingle-bar, and you can then
use the gadget to drag your wire on to the
job.
MAKING A TANK HOLD.
“J.McG.”: West of the River Darling,
in a very dry spot, by the side of a small,
steep. ridge, a 20,000ydv excavation was
made. It never had a drop of water, in
spite of the splendid watershed of the ridge.
I got it fenced-in with wire-netting, and
every night for a week I enclosed as many
sheep in it as it would conveniently hold.
On the seventh or eighth night it started to
rain. When I got there in the morning a
couple of sheep had slipped and were
drowned. There was about a foot of water
in the bottom of the excavation. I got the
sheep out by removing the whole of the net-
ting. The rain continued for a couple of
days and filled the tank, and it was never
empty again in my eight years’ further
experience there. -
WHY IS CAPONISING UNPOPULAR?
“Momokeni”: I can tell “Mrs. Lance
Rawson” (B. 7/7/”27) why caponising is
not practised in Australia. I settled in
a poultry-farming district with the inten-
(Continued on page 31.)


VITALITY
' - i- ¥ '-
STOCK UICI
#
1 1
In I
A?
§
: ■:
m
!^7oibß^
m
4
.
m
O
x *25
D
OJ
0
§#
mk ■- i
Wmm |
Mr. Sheepowner
After all !!
The .testimony of PRACTICAL and EXPERIENCED
men is the best guide. .. .. .
Junee,
August 9, 1926.
Dear Sirs, —In February, 1925, I took delivery of a line of Weaners which I purchased
on Monaro, and after I got them home they turned out to be very flukey and were dying
like flies. I purchased a ton of “LIX-ALL” through your .Agents at Junee, and began
giving it to these flukey sheep. Very soon I saw an improvement in them and they left
off dying, and in the coui’se of a few months they had left off coughing and they were
quite sound and healthy. It gives me much pleasure and satisfaction to recommend the
“LIX-ALL” to anyone who may have flukey sheep.
Kindly send me another half ton immediately. Yours faithfully,
“Eurolie,” Junee Reefs. JOS. lIEFFERNAN.
“Marian Vale,”
Bungonia Road,
Via Goulburn,
April 29, 1920.
Dear Sir, —I already have a supply of “LIX-ALL,”
a'd have used same in the dry time, and I find it
to be a good lick; sheep put on condition, whilst
other sheep on other licks lost condition. Would
like to tell you that I have recommended it to
others in this district, and will do by best for
you.
I remain, Yours truly,
(Signed) H. W. RIX.
df
Sole Agents for New South Wales: —
THE COMMONWEALTH WOOL & PRODUCE CO., LTD., 3 BENT STREET, SYDNEY
gd


€3
EiFp
-rpre
=firilfiß'V
nin
DJR
rm
HHn^rvJtLltl
w-.
EL' 1 l|3
PH:
llHs
Uiai
SUE
i
XI!
<^a
//
A
m
7'
■■■-
Y
m
m
m
r
wi
m
m
m
II
’///,
i i'Wij>
/Olk*.
x
=3O
tUiii
SPAN
THE
i
zfi.
’• OF
BATTERY JTF
c^x
Can best be proved by the experience of
the user. It is the testimony of hundreds
of thousands of users that justifies
the name.
THE LONG-LIFE BATTERY
THERE IS A TYPE FOR EVERY CAR.
Jlustralian Distributors
N. S. WALES: Gibson, Battle & Co., Ltd., Hunt
Street, off Wentworth Avenue, Sydney.
QUEENSLAND: “Exide” Battery Service (Q.)»
Ltd., 472-474 Queen Street, Brisbane.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA: Unbehaun & Johnstone,
Ltd., Rosina Street, Adelaide.
WEST AUSTRALIA: Unbehaun & Johnstone
(W.A.), Ltd., Radio House, 383-387 Murray
Street, Perth.
VICTORIA: A. P. Sutherland, Queen’s Bridge (2 Maffra Street), South Melbourne.
New Zealand Distributors:
Hope, Gibbons, Ltd., Wellington, Auckland and Christchurch.


CAUSTIC SODA
(ELECTROLYTIC)
LIQUID— 32 per cent. Na2o.
POWDERED-98 per cent. NaOH.
SULPHURIC ACID—I.B3 s.g.
SULPHURIC ACID, C.P.—
Guaranteed chemically pure
by analysis.
HYDROCHLORIC AClD—
(Muriatic) Commercial, 33%
HYDROCHLORIC ACID, C.P.
Guaranteed chemically pure
by analysis.
CARBON TETRA CHLORIDE.
REFINED CHILEAN SALT-
PETRE.
SULPHUR MONOCHLORIDE.
ZINC CHLORIDE.
SULPHATE OF IRON.
POWDERED SULPHUR.
PHOSPHORIC ACID, 70%
PHOSPHATIC COMPOUNDS.
CONCENTRATED SOLDER-
ING AND TINNING FLUXES.
LIQUID CHLORINE
100 per cent, pure Anhydrous
In. 100, 150 and 20001 b. Containers.
SODIUM HYPOCHLORITE.
MANUFACTURED BY
THE MOUNT LYELL CHEMICAL WORKS,
Collins House, 381 Little Collins Street, Melbourne.
WORKS: YARRAVTLLE. VICTORIA.
THE
The Standard All British Fountain Pen
SELF-FILLING. CANNOT LEAK.
You can regulate the flow of ink
to suit your handwriting.
When you have finished writing,
a twist with the finger and thumb
seals the reservoir so that the
ink CANNOT escape until you
yourself release it.
ONOTO INK— Best for all Pens. Obtainable everywh<
If any illustration in “7 HE BULLETIN takes your fancy, write
to the MANAGER, who will quote you price for the original.
r?->
%
r' rjy
't.
l rtt
COYc
Hisy
•/c:
(,</~
L',. ?
r .k-
-*IML
i
xMkfex!.
andWMM?
HI H» Ulll-llj, |
YOU need this Handy Book.
This is a book that will find a place in every home, farm,
or workshop where the price and efficiency of tools and
implements are considered. Detailed information is given
about countless articles. There are pages of valuable hints,
railway rates, postal rates, handy tables, &c., &c.
There need be no buying at hazard with such a wealth of
particulars to guide you.
Fill in and send NCW the coupon below.
M^Pfiersoifs)
Proprietary Limited
582 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE
Please send me Fanner’s Catalogue Post Free.
Name .
Address
B 1
r*
554 5*4 esßl‘S9t COLLINS ST.,Mf LOOuHNC . PHONC.C .BJt«
31*65 OATHOfIVT >T- SVOMCY. PMOttt. ClT* 3505 .Jnrf 9
QU€IN VKTOrtIA 6104-3.(447 C-fOMOC Sf. W
ll<i-l?o W*ypitHiTH yr. 40CLAIOE - PHONC.C.64I3<? .
tion of running a capon farm similar to
those I had seen in Surrey (Eng.). At
the start I was warned by other poultry-
farmers that capons would not be profit-
able, my informants citing the Department
of Agriculture’s book “Poultry Farming in
N.5.W.,” by James Hadlington, who says:
"It is a fallacy to suppose that large
weighty birds....are in unlimited demand,”
and they “cannot be produced at prices
which will attract customers.” However,
nothing daunted, I sent several batches of
fat year-old capons (Orpingtons) down to
Sydney markets. They fetched no more,
and in some cases less, than similar batches
of five-month-old Orpington cockerels, the
auctioneers informing me that large meaty
birds were not wanted, buyers preferring
young cockerels which would cut into small
joints. In England, Surrey capons find
a ready sale to chefs of Piccadilly clubs
frequented by elderly gourmands, and to
caterers for swagger banquets and aristo-
cratic dinner parties. Returned Diggers
cannot get in personal touch with these
potential buyers (if they exist), but have
to rely on the auctioneers of the produce
markets. It is too expensive to educate
public taste.
There is a way of making capons profit-
able, and that is by using them at this
time of the year to mother baby chicks.
This they will do far more devotedly than
the most experienced old broody hen. A
year-old capon will provide warmth and
protection for 50 or more young chickens,
and will prove far more reliable and give
less trouble than a mechanical brooder. It
would certainly pay poultry-farmers to
caponise a few of their surplus cockerels
in the spring to use the following year for
this purpose, even if they were condemned
to eat the capons themselves after the
period of usefulness was over. It is cer-
tainly no hardship to eat a slice of roast
capon, for in tin 1 words of the Jovial Monk
“A capon fine is a dish divine, and a merry
heart is a purse well lined”; but that is
all the lining you will get to your purse
if you start a capon farm.
STANDARDS FOR HONEY.
“Orn” : Beekeepers in N.S.W. seem to view
their honey from a rather curious angle.
In Maori land, where the export of honey is
an organised and very successful business,
honey is graded on the following scale:
Flavor 40 per cent, color 10, condition 15,
grain 12, aroma 8, freedom from scum and
froth 10, packing and finish 5. At their
recent meeting at Tamworth N.S.W. apiar-
ists adopted a scale: Flavor 25, density 25,
2olor 25, aroma 10, clearness 10, brightness
5. In cutting down flavor from 40 to 25 and
putting up color from 10 to 25 a proper
appreciation is shown for appearances,
worthy of the true artist. Unfortunately the
consumer is prone to judge more by taste
than eye, and it is doubtful whether the
brilliancy of the complexion will compensate
for deficiencies in flavor.
TOBACCO GROWING.
“Volta”: Tobacco growing is a pleasant
and interesting occupation. But planting on
a large scale has many responsibilities, both
irritating and interesting. Among the former
come frost and insect pests and adverse
weather conditions, but these can be com-
bated if proper care is taken of the plants.
The planting season in Australia is gener-
ally in August, but if the season happens to
be very late a spoilt crop may be the out-
come ; so if the grower plants one bed in
this month and another in September, he
has a double chance, and with luck both beds
will flourish. Beds 25ft. x 50ft, will cover,
when transplanted, five acres. Use two
heaped tablespoons of well selected tobacco
seed mixed thoroughly with about 21b. of
finely-sifted ashes, so > that the seed will be
evenly distributed over the beds. The beds
should be well dug and a little mild fertiliser
mixed in with the newly-turned earth. After
the seed has been scattered don’t rake —pat
down with the flat of the spade. Watering-
should be carried out with care and modera-
tion ; the soil should be damp, not sloppy, and
use a fine rose on the watering-can or hose.
Liquid manure will prove beneficial to the
sprouting plants. Insect pests will cause
havoc if precaution is not taken. A light
framework of wood erected over the plots
about 10 inches from the ground and cheap
cheesecloth stretched over it and around the
sides will keep the insects away and allow
sunlight and air a passage to the plants. If
the plants seem sluggish, a mixture of two
parts of nitrate of soda to 10 of water should
be applied in moderation. The plants should
be at least four inches high and sturdy be-
fore transplanting.
GO FOR EARLY CHICKENS.
“.Jack Point”: It is not too early to start
hatching chicks. True, they are a little
more trouble to rear through the winter
months, but they are worth it. Breeders,
having just resumed laying after their moult,
are in the pink of condition to produce good
hatchable eggs; and pullets from chicks
hatched within the next month or so, pro-
perly fed and reai’ed, will be ready to lay in
February next, just when the old birds
begin to moult and eggs begin to rise.
HINTS FOR THE FARM.
“Pick”: From the attacks of crows in
lambing time, and from wounds sustained in
shearing, Monaro (N.S.W.) settlers have
found that their sheep have of late years
been particularly liable to blood-poisoning.
lodoform seems the best remedy.
“Yufu”: Is fistula hereditary in horses? I
had a filly and a colt, by the same father,
and each developed one of the cursed things.
A vet. treated her, draining the fistula —but
ro no end. Next tried chloride of zinc. It
burnt out the pus and the sore healed up—
but broke out again a month later. In
desperation—as the filly was valuable —I
turned to kerosene. Three times a day I
soaked the fistula in the fluid, burning all
the hair off the beast’s shoulders and tortur-
ing her a little, but eventually curing her.
That is five years ago; and showing only
a small _ lump on her wither, she is still
being driven. The colt was shot.
“Yufu”: A huge death-rate among poddies
is caused by the scours, mainly due to the
careless feeding of separated milk. To pre-
vent it mix linseed meal or oilcake with the
milk; but not too much, especially at first.
If a calf begins to scour a few feeds of
unseparated milk should fix him; if not, give
him a dose of castor oil before the milk. In
the case of blood scours, the worst form, a
raw egg given before the oil and the milk
will give satisfactory results. Keep scoured
poddies isolated.
“Coola”: Perhaps the heavy frosts pre-
valent on the N.S.W. tablelands lately have
been the cause of so many lambs being
affected with sore mouths; or it may be the
dry feed, for green grass is scarce. _ Bathe
for two days with a lotion —loz. boric acid,
2oz. glycerine and 80oz. warm water. On
the third day use a drying solution made by
dissolving loz. alum in a quart of water. Two
teaspoons of fluid magnesia mixed with a
similar quantity of water may be given as
medicine. Borax and honey is a good homely
cure for the trouble, but it is necessary to
bathe the sores with the boric lotion also.
“Barmac”: Re “Kirk’s” Tamworth-Berk-
shire cross (B. 9/G/'27). The Denmark
(W.A.) pig-raisers crossed Tamworth-
Large Black cross sows with Berk, boars.
The offspring was the ideal baconer of splen-
did formation and speedy development. No
other breed of my acquaintance could touch
them.
“Leo Lear” : On outback farms a milking
cow often calves some days before she is
seen and brought to the homestead. If
mammitis has then set in, a cure can be
ejected even in advanced cases with kero-
sene. Heat it and massage the udder twice
a day. Don’t give up because no improve-
ment shows at once. I’ve known cases take
over two weeks.
“Peter P.”: The Condamine here sepa-
rates the black soil from very light sandy
soil. Take a mob of merino weaners and
divide them equally, putting half on each
side of the river. At two years old they
seem two distinct types. The sheep on the
sandy soil will carry a light-tipped, light-
conditioned fleece; the sheep on the black
soil will carry a black-tipped, heavy-condi-
tioned fleece. Incidentally a sheep on the
black soil will at two years be as large as
a three-year-old on the sandy side. The lat-
ter is true also of cattle and horses.
“Coola” : To get rid of borers, seek out the
holes in trunks and main stems by looking
for the fine wood-dust which they push out.
Take a small syringe and squirt kerosene
into each burrow. The borers will be de-
stroyed and their homes will soon be occu-
pied' by spiders which will capture other
pests.
* * * *
“J.D.”: A Latrobe (Tas.j dairyman, Mr.
.T. Campbell, has an Ayrshire cow which
recently threw twin calves. The sire was a
pure-bred Jersey and the male calf has all
the characteristics of a Jersey, while the
heifer calf is a full Ayrshire in appearance.
Each parent is apparently represented true
to type.
# * # *
“Silentio”: “Hatter” says (B. 23/6/’27)
that the significance of the yellow pigment
in a fowl’s appearance is a recent discovery.
I have been in the game 12 years, and it
was one of the things I knew when I started.
“Mallee Root”: “Dunnrat’s” writing (11.
9/6/’27) of the mare that broke her leg
and had to be destroyed, the foal being sur-
gically removed without any ill-effects. _ re-
calls that some years ago at Carrum (Vic.)
a draught mare close to her time was run
down by a goods-train at a level crossing.
She was killed outright, and frightfully
mutilated, but the foal was thrown clear
and quite uninjured. He was hand-reared, and
did well; when I last saw him he was a
hefty four-year-old doing his bit in a spud-
planting machine. __ ,
“Chemtecli” : Have those who think sisal
hemp cultivation is out of the question in
Queensland owing to high labor costs con-
sidered the possibilities of the waste leaf-
material from the power alcohol point of
view ? About 5 p.c. of fibre is obtainable
from the green leaf, but the fleshy residue
contains up to 15 p.c. of sugars, or about
20 gallons of alcohol per ton. Unfortunately,
some of the sugars are difficult to ferment;
nevertheless the French authorities think
well of the proposition in their African pos-
session.
* * * *
“Wandi”: If every farmer realised tin 1
value of the quail, lie would set. his clod-
hoppers down firmly on the shooting of the
bird. It is a ground forager that destroys
countless seeds of noxious weeds, besides
many pests, including the cotton-boll weevil.
That the bird can be easily domesticated was
proved on a Clarence River farm. A clutch
of eggs was hatched in an incubator, and
the young birds were reared with the com-
mon chickens. They were allowed to run
as they pleased, but always roamed near the
house, and came up regularly when the
fowls were called at feed time.
* * * *
“Bad Australian” : When a bull is roped by
the horns for the first time he sets upsomething
of a commotion ; but with this new-fangled
method of flank-roping him—well, any busli-
man will tell you what effect it has on a
horse that could not be induced to buck by
any other means. In the corner of the
bush where I consumed my early salt horse
and pumpkin, when a bull had outlived his
usefulness we roped him, hauled him up to
one of the corner-posts of the stockyard, and,
after leg-roping him to the fence like one
of his harem, we passed a couple of trace-
chains around his equatorial regions and
the top rail or cap of the yard, hauled all
taut and operated on him as he stood —or
hung. This was a rude but reasonably ex-
peditious and really convenient way of doing
all that the occasion required.
$ * * *
“Link”: A North Queensland fruit-grower
thinks he has solved the flying-fox problem.
When his mango crop began to turn, he
picked the ripest, loaded them with strych-
nine and tied the fruit firmly on the tree.
Next morning dead foxes littered the ground.
Three nights proved enough for the pests,
and since then his fruit has been taboo.


Mere words cannot express
their infinite superiority.
Army Club
lO for 9dL CIGARETTES 20 for 1/6
In pure ribbed watermarked paper .
CAVANDERS Ltd.. London (Est. 1775), Pioneers of Hygienic Cigarette Packing.
1
n
S»S
r
CORK
TIPPED
or PLAIN
SMOKE-OH!
A woman takes more care of a man’s out-
goings than she does of his income.
The last we heard of Miss Muffet she was
sitting in a beauty parlor fasting her curves
away.
"Every woman," says an advertiser,
“should learn to make her own dresses.” Bui
aren’t those things out of date?
With his pockets full of pork sausages the
police discovered a thief in a Bendigo but-
cher's shop hiding behind a carcase of beef.
But that didn’t save his bacon.
*
.V Sydney taxi-driver complains of being
followed about suburban streets by a ghost.
This should be a warning to all drivers never
to do a Scotchman out of sixpence change.
A medical writer says that a woman who
is oft. Gin. high should weigh 9st. It should
be added that if she weighs that in her street
clothes she should weigh about 9st. fill), m
bathers.
,"I would rather be a pauper than a pro-
fessional,” affirms Helen Wills, the champion
tennis player. As the versatile lady recently
published a volume of her verse, site plainly
prefers poetry to pros.
At a meeting of the North Sydney Council
an alderman complained that another aider-
man threw a water-jug at a member of the
council and smashed (he jug. But why worry,
so long as the water wasn't spilt?
“Slogger" Davis had the floor. “Th’ big-
gest Murray cod 1 ever 'ad anything t' do
with." he said, "was out on
th' Darlin’ River. I was
’endin' for Coobong station
with six ton o' fencin’-wire,
but got bogged t’ th’ axle
right on th’ bank o’ tli’ river.
Couldn't do anything till
mornin’, so turned th’ ’orses
out an’ pitched camp. Threw
out a. coup!a set lines an’
’itched 'em to th’ pole o' me
waggon, thinkin’ a bit o' fish
'd go well for broakfust. ’Ter-
rible sick foldin' come over
me next mornin’ when I sees
me waggon an’ 200 quids’
worth o’ fencin’-wire gone.
Where did I find ’em? Three
miles up th' river in tow o’
tlr biggest Murray cod I ever
sees. But I ain’t got nothin’
ter complain of. Th’ cow
pulled me outer tlr spongy
stuff enter good, ’ard coun-
try.”
A man charged at the
South Melbourne Court with
the theft of four loaves told
the magistrate that he stole
the bread to give it to the
poor. His philanthropy cost
him seven days' gaol. He’ll
find it cheaper to part with
his own dough in future.
“One member of the con-
gregation has taken me too
literally,” said the minister,
gazing solemnly into a col-
lection-plate. "I announced
that the offertory to-day is in aid of the
unclothed savages of tin- Pacific, and someone
has contributed a trouser button.
“That goes without saying”—
I hate the dull bore
With such phrases o’erflowing;
But I thirst for his gore
Who, twixt leaving and staying.
Still stands at the door
And says without going.
VICTORIA. M.F.
HIS LEGACY.
“’E left all we 'ad to the orphanage!”
"Wot did ’e leave?”
"Our six kids!”
A Melbourne weekly asks: “What will
flappers wear in 1940?” A smile, we hope.
"Mary, Mary, quite contrary,
What does your garden grow?”
"What with tennis and jazz
I've got no time for fla’s;
So now, old sticky, you know.”
A woman's journal, after reviewing the
history of the sex, claims that there's not
much change about modern girls. And there's
less on their male friends as a rule.
Speaking at Young (N.S.W.) the other
day Dame Nellie Melba said that Australians
were a little bit slow. Yes. some of us have
been known to linger a trifle over our fare-
wells.
THE RHYME OF A MISANTHROPE.
The scheme of Nature's great intent
Does ever man perplex;
But still I vow she never meant
Equality of sex.
The both of them (who can deny?)
She brands with letters three:
For man it's always “P.A.Y.” ;
For woman, "Y.A.P.”
A Sydney man asserted the other day that
he had got a fortune out of sausages. We
wish we were half so sure about what we
had got out of them.
The London Weekly Despatch, asks its
readers which order of monks buries its dead
without coffins. We give it up. but are
game to bet a little it’s a Scotch order.
A cable announces that the Prince of
Wales lias been filmed with three layers of
greasepaint on his face. Evidently deter-
mined that if he cannot stick on anything
something shall stick on him.
«!•
"The frock of the week,” says a fashion-
writer. “is not. strictly speaking, a frock at
all." No; and judging by the muscles ex-
posed, the frocks of some of the strong are
not strictly frocks either.
Recently it, was announced that a stop-
work meeting of gas-makers would be held
in Melbourne. The reports of Parliament
were printed as usual next day. so appa-
rently the meeting was postponed.
* s\:
“L. Ausell”: I was looking for the grave
of a departed friend in a W. Aus. cemetery
when I found the following inscription :
Nothing in this world can please us
Since little Willie went to Jesus!
Beneath it some Goth had pencilled :
Take comfort, stranger, who can tell —
P’raps little Willie wont to Hell 1
Bill met George in the street early one
morning. “Hullo, George,” he said. "Why,
I haven’t seen you for over a year. Where’ve
you been?” “Been working up at Newcastle,”
replied George. “Got a job as demolishing
electrician with a butcher.” "With a
builder?” asked Bill. “No,” said George.
"With a butcher—taking the lights out of
the sheep."
OLD JOKES.
They sit in a wheezy, asthmatieal row
With whiskers that trail on the earth ;
How they still cling to life it intrigues me
to know,
For the reign of Queen Anne gave them
birth.
I refer to the jokes that it peeves me to read.
When a decent interment they certainly need.
The mother-in-law is an evergreen hale,
Whom the humorists (so-called) invoke:
But, in spite of the quips and the quirks that
are stale,
She can hardly be reckoned a joke.
Visitation, calamity, washout or blob —
But jests on so solemn a theme make me sob.
The bibulous bird who discovers two moons,
Or who waits for his house to come round,
Should be banned like a guest who is caught
with the spoons,
Or buried ten feet underground.
But jokes about Jews who insure, or the
Scot
Reluctant to shout, should be blippeil on the
spot.
But were I Ko Ko I would place on my list
As a knave to be hamstrung or shot
The blot on the landscape miscalled humor-
ist
Who thinks that a nigger, a pot
And a reverend gent, who is destined to stew
Is, was or e'er shall be a joke worth a sou.
VICTORIA. WAWHERESH.
* *
The woman of 4.1 who can pass herself off
as a flapper knows a wrinkle or two.
Our first female parent was driven forth
from the Garden of Eden, but Adam was
Eved.
*
Treasurer Lang denies that lie is a Reddy
reckoner.
TIME IS MONEY.
“The Melbourne Hospital is appealing for an hour of every-
body’s wages.”
“.John, you’ve been drinking!”
“Yes, m’dear. But what with Smith borrowing a fort-
night, and the .income-tax running away with three
weeks, and your fur coat costing me a month, I
felt I simply had to spend four minutes on a
beer.”
Some people go on until they are ready
to drop; others are ready to have their
drop at the first pub.
Relations are almost always prepared to
prey by the bedside of a rich man.
* *
Most of us prefer the spot to be marked
with a star —or three stars.
When a woman uses cutting remarks to a
laggard suitor it is to bring him to the
point.
A petitioner in the Sydney Divorce Court
said that she first learnt of her husband’s
unfaithfulness from what lie said one night
when he was drunk. She caught him on
the hops.
When a man has been drinking cold
whisky all day, he shouldn’t complain if his
wife gives it to him hot when he gets home.
1927 VERSION.
Modern life is full of bubble,
Two things stand like stone—
Blindness to another’s trouble,
Cunning in your own.
N.s.w.
D. MCM.
TO THE ATLANTIC.
Atlantic, romantic!
The airmen above you
Whose stunting is antic
For danger just love you ;
For fame they are frantic,
Atlantic!
Atlantic ! Pedantic
Are we, and absurd-like,
Who dub eorybantic
Those flyers who, Byrd-like,
Have crossed you, gigantic
Atlantic!
VICTORIA.
EARDLEY TUBNER.
THE SERVICE STATION.
You cannot argue with a garage man.
When he says he knows what’s wrong, no-
thing short of a spanner will alter his
opinion.
1 found this out when I took my car to
a service man yesterday and struck him on his
Carburettor Day. Of course 1 knew it was
a faulty plug.
"(food morning,” he said, "what is the
trouble V”
"Faulty plug,” l answered confidently.
But the study in oil seemed in a sort of
trance. "Start her up.” lie commanded, re-
covering from his' reverie.
He listened to the engine for a few
moments and then murmured softly: “Ah!
Carburettor. She’s dirty.”
“It can’t be,” I said. “Why, only yester-
day 1 took it down and cleaned it myself.”
I thought he would be pleased to know
that I had had the good sense to have done
this. But lie wasn’t.
“Oswald,” lie yelled to the interior of the
garage, “come and clean this carburettor.”
I looked on in dumb silence while Oswald,
emerging from the garage wielding a couple
of spanners, set to work.
At length the job was completed and the
mechanic stepped forward.
“She’ll he all sigurno now.”
“All right,” 1 answered with my most
martyred air. But I added: “I’m sure it's
a faulty plug, though.”
That, afternoon I stopped outside the
garage with a triumphant smile.
“Just as 1 thought,” I said maliciously.
“It’s not the carburettor at all.”
“That’s the worst of trusting young
Oswald to do a job,” he grumbled. “I sup-
pose I’ll have to clean it again myself,” and
producing a spanner from his pocket, immedi-
ately set to work.
I offered no resistance, and soon he beamed
at me through a mist of petrol.
"She’s o.k.,” he said. “But I'll just run
her out for a few minutes and try her. You’d
better come, too.”
The car might never have been near the
garage for all the good that had been done.
To the mechanic —well, to put it in his own
words, “.She’s running sweet.”
For the rest the travelling was done in
silence, until it was suddenly broken by a
terrific explosion. Four horses bolted, and
PROOF.
STELLA: “Jack has such high thoughts."
BELLA: “Yes. I notice he always buys
gallery seats.”
a man in the act of lighting a cigarette put
his elbow through a shop window.
“Plug,” I ventured, after recovering from
the shock.
■‘That,” he replied, “is a backfire through
the carburettor.”
I-Ie was still faithful to his little carbu-
rettor.
“Rot,” I said, “it’s the plug.” I was really
angry by this time.
A pained look penetrated the oil and
passed over his face.
“Ex —cuse me,” he drawled significantly,
“but —that—was —a backfire —through—the
—carburettor.”
“What’s all this? 1 ” a burly policeman
interrupted. "You can’t sit there all day
arguing and holding up the traffic. I’ll give
you five minutes to change that blown-out
tyre and disappear.”
R. P. G.


Graham Brothers
trucks
Low Costs
Low costs are a feature of Graham Brothers Trucks
throughout their long, profitable lives.
Initial cost is extremely low for such high quality
because Graham Brothers build more trucks than any
other exclusive truck manufacturer in the world.
Operating costs are low because of the low fuel
consumption of the famous Dodge Brothers engine.
Maintenance costs are low because Graham Brothers
Trucks, sturdily built of fine materials, seldom need
repair-—and because genuine, fairly - priced repair
parts are always available when they are needed.
Parts and Service Here .
Canada Cycle & Motor Co. (Victoria) Pty., Ltd., Melbourne
Austral Motors, Limited, Brisbane—Townsville
The Standardised Motors, Ltd., Sydney
Waymouth Motor Co., Ltd., Adelaide
Winterbottom Motor Co., Ltd., Perth
1- CHASSIS £325
l a-TON CHASSIS £445
2- CHASSIS - £485
2-TON CHASSIS (Long Wheelbase) £515
BUILT BY TRUCK DIVISION OF DODGE
BROTHERS, INC. SOLD BY DODGE
BROTHERS DEALERS EVERYWHERE-
A
v-
A
4
r
vjy,
fa
Q
R
* —-*
v
1
*4
<A
i
25./7/’27


FIFTY-THREE
“HisMasferisVfoice”
BEETHOVEN
CENTENARY
RECORDS
Electrically Recorded in Complete Form.
•THE “CHORAL” SYMPHONY
No. 9 in D Minor, Op. 125. 8 double-
sided 12-in. Black Label Records,
Nos. D 1164 to D 1171. Played by
the Symphony Orchestra, Philhar-
monic Choir and Soloists (conducted
by Albert Coates).
•SYMPHONY No. 5 in C Minor, Ops
67. 4 double-sided 12-inch Black
Label Records, Nos. D 1150 to
D 1153. Played by the Royal Albert
Hall Orchestra (conducted by Sir
Landon Ronald).
*“ EROICA,” SYMPHONY No. 3 in
E Flat Major, Op. 55. 6 double-
sided 12-inch Black Label Records,
Nos. D 1158 to D 1163. Played by
the Symphony Orchestra (conducted
by Albert Coates).
* VIOLIN CONCERTO in D Major,
Op. 61. 6 double-sided 12-inch Red
Label Records, Nos. DB 990 to
DB 995. Played by Fritz Kreisler
and the State Opera Orchestra (con-
ducted by Dr. Leo Blech). Recorded
in the Singakademie, Berlin.
•THE “ EMPEROR ” CONCERTO,
Op. 73 (for Pianoforte and Orchestra).
4 double-sided 12-inch Black Label
Records, Nos. D 1198 to D 1201.
Played by Wilhelm Backhaus and
the Royal Albert Hall Orchestra
(conducted by Sir Landon Ronald).
•QUARTET No. 12 in E Flat Major,
Op. 127. 5 double-sided 12-inch
Black Label Records, Nos. D 1183
to D 1187. Played by the Virtuoso
String Quartet.
•QUARTET No. 9 in C Major, Op.
59, No. 3. 4 double-sided 12-inch
Black Label Records, Nos. D 1202
to D 1205. Played by the Virtuoso
String Quartet.
•An Album is presented with each
complete set of these Records.
Records may be purchased separately.
•QUARTET No. 6 in B Flat Major
Op. 18. No. 6. 4 double-sided 12'
inch Black Label Records, Nos.
D 1206 to D 1209. Played by the
Virtuoso String Quartet.
*“ KREUTZER,” SONATA in A
Major, Op. 47. 4 double-sided 12-
inch Black Label Records, Nos.
D 1066 to D 1069. Played by Isolde
Menges and Arthur De Greef.
LEONORA, Overture, No. 3, Parts 1
and 2 ; and LEONORA, Overture,
No. 3, Part 3. 2 double-sided 12-inch
Black Label Records, Nos. D 1051
and D 1052. Played by the Royal
Albert Hall Orchestra (conducted by
Sir Landon Ronald).
" MOONLIGHT,” SONATA in C
Sharp Minor, Op. 27, No. 2 Adagio
sostenuto —Allegretto—Presto Agita-
to, Part 1. Played by Frederic
Lamond (Pianforte).
“ MOONLIGHT,” SONATA in C
Sharp Minor, Op. 27, No. 2. Presto
Agitato, Part 2. 2 double-sided
12-inch Black Label Records, Nos.
D 1140 and D 1141. Played by
Frederic Lamond (Pianoforte).
“ PATHETIQUE,” SONATA in C
Minor, Op. 13. 2 double-sided 12-
inch Black Label Records, Nos.
D 1188 and D 1189. Played by
Frederic Lamond (Pianoforte).
ROMANCE in F, Op. 50, Parts 1 and 2.
1 double-sided 12-inch Red Label
Record, No. DB 904. Played by
Jacques Thibaud (Violin with Piano
Accompaniment).
EGMONT OVERTURE. 1 double-
sided Plum Label Record, No. EB 8.
Played by Victor Symphony Orches-'
tra (conducted by Josef Pasternock).
E.B. Series Records
D Series Records ..
D.B. Series Records
Album Sets
each 6/-
„ 8/-
„ 10/6
from 32/-
Ask your dealer to reserve you a copy of the
beautiful Beethoven Booklet.
The Gramophone Co. Ltd. ]
s Master fe Voice
163 Pitt St. f Sydney.
\ \
X
rr*
2LP^
P
\
O
r
£
« o- -~ >
SIaiujv
never had afire/
READ the daily newspaper reports of fires that were not
expected, and beware of your own security!
Even as children and mice play with, matches and start
fires, so are electric wires prone to short-circuit. Spontaneous
combustion constantly ignores “No Smoking” regulations.
Fireproof buildings may not burn, but their contents will!
And always, the God of Chance, with a sly wink at the Over-
Confident Man, seems waiting, eagerly, to take a whack at
any fellow who has had a little too long run of luck.
You can never tell how or when or where a fire will start.
Your* reputation for being careful won’t put out a fire. In
an emergency you might better be ready with enough first-
aid appliances, carefully selected for your kind of hazards
and properly installed.
Be prepared—your turn may come next!
Foamite Fire Protection
A Complete Engineering Service
Against Fire.
Send for Free Booklet, "Extinguishing Oil and Other Fires/'
BELDAM PACKING AGENCY (AUSTRALIA), LTD.,
37 Sussex Street, Sydney.
ATKINS (W.A.), LTD.,
894 Hay Street, Perth.
GEORGE DOWNER & CO.,
Henty House, 499 Little Collins Street, Melbourne.
MATTHEWS FIRE ALARM, LTD.,
City Buildings, Edward Street, Brisbane, Q.
CLAUDE H. SMITH & CO.,
189 Gawler Place, Adelaide, S.A.


EVER
READY
an
n
A Better Dry Battery
the EVER-READY
The best for wireless
purposes or general
utility bells, tele-
phones, burglar alar ms,
medical coils, etc.
fg
Agents everywhere
Write for Illustrated Catalogue
THEEVER-RRADY CO.
(Gt. Britain) Ltd.
163 Pitt Street, Sydney
Nation- Wide Popularity through
Fair Dealing.
The phenomenally rapid growth and nation-wide popularity of the
Producers and Citizens’ may be said to rest on the fact that it lives up
to the spirit as well as the letter of the ideal of Co-operation. For
example, its Policy-holders are protected against forfeiture of their
policies during seasonal emergencies: each year definite sums are
earmarked for loan purposes; while the Company’s intimate know-
ledge of the peculiar needs of the men on the land takes form in
sympathetic, understanding treatment.
The PRODUCERS & CITIZENS’
Co-operative Assurance Co. of Australia, Ltd.,
Gov. Dir.:
A. K. Trethowan.
114-120 Castlereagh Street, Sydney.
Gen. Man.:
H. FelL
THE
WOMAN’S MIRROR
Published Every Tuesday
Is the most popular 64-page
woman’s paper published in
the Commonwealth. It features
everything a woman ought to
know. Once you read it you
will never be without it.
Its up-to-date weekly pattern
is free for the asking.
Published by
The Bulletin Newspaper Co.,
214 Geor«e Street, Sydney.
Christine Helps.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
NOW, said Christine, what would you
expect of a fellow named Joe! Such
a sober name that; it makes one think
of a bronze god pushing a plough or shear-
ing horses. A Joe, in my mind, would be
shy enough to blush on beholding me. But
did Joe Parker —the Joe I’m telling you
about—blush? No, darling—it was I who
reddened. Because lie was the last thing in
sheiks, and wore his coat pinched in at the
waist—so ! The only solid thing about him
was his desire for Peggy Morris.
When you look at me, darling, you see an
image of Peggy. So pretty, so slim, so shy
and unassuming! Not a deep-waters type
by any means. And any man, excepting
Joe, could have been excused for crashing for
her. Joe —well, there was nothing about him
to suggest that he would get infatuated with
a girl like Peggy. I know —I had experi-
ence with Joe.
You know how these authors sneer at
the idle rich. Well, Joe was half-and-half
in that class : he was idle, but not rich. Ilis
relations were rich, but knew how to hold
on to their money. You know how such
things go: an aunt dressed him, an uncle
supplied him with pocket-money, a grand-
mother gave him advice. Oh yes, lie worked
—in liis grandfather’s estate business. But
on a pittance; he never could afford more
than a five-shilling box of chocolates. And
that is altogether too much of a handicap
for a boy to be a friend of mine.
Of course Peggy cared for him. He had
the moon in his eyes, and a wave crinkled
his brown hair. Sweet, innocent, Victorian
love it was on Peggy’s part; I’m not so
sure about Joe —or wasn’t, I mean. But
as things turned 0ut....
However, darling, it was not so strange
as it seems that the dears didn’t elope and
send a collect wire to Joe’s relatives that
they were honeymooning at Katoomba and
stood a fair chance of being gaoled if some-
body didn’t pay their hotel bills. Joe was
scared, because he didn’t want to ruffle the
feathers of his relatives too much. And
Peggy had old-fashioned ideas about mar-
riage. Besides, Peggy’s father had threat-
ened to kick Joe down the steps because
Joe, in the firm’s car, had run over Mrs.
Morris’s pet poodle.
Joe liked me, and if I had entertained
him Peggy would not have stood a chance.
And it was to me that the poor dear came
—only as a friend —when he was so wor-
ried about his love affair.
“Joe,” I said to him, meeting him in the
street one day and being curious about
the hang-dog expression on liis face, “you
are in trouble.”
“Huh!” he said, and scowled at me. Bui:
I knew the poor darling was upset, and so
I forgave him.
“Has Peggy turned you down?” I tempted.
“What’s it got to do with you?”
“I’m so interested.”
“You would be,” he snarled.
But I was not discouraged. “Why not,”
I suggested, striving to think up some scheme
out of gratitude for liis having come to
me for aid —“why not go to your uncle
and ask him to give you a good salary, as
you want to get married?”
He looked at me blankly. “There is,”
he said brutally, “some rumor that diamonds
are to be had for the collecting—in the
moon.” And he walked away, without even
raising his hat. But I was not discouraged ;
I had sown seeds that would be fruitful,
I was sure.
However, no seed will grow and bear fruit
if not properly cared for; so, with this in
mind, happening to be passing the offices of
Parker, Parker and Parker, I entered therein
and demanded to see Mr. Job Parker, Joe’s
grandfather and the head of the firm. Mr.
Job is a crotchety old man of seventy-nine,
but I knew I would have no difficulty in
seeing him, as we live in the same street
as lie does, and I have often seen him staring-
after me admiringly as I passed. And I
was not wrong.
“Well, well, if it’s not my pretty little
Miss Lane,” he exclamed delightedly, as a
perfectly frowsy secretary showed me into
his big office where he sits all day long-
playing patience in his determination to keep
in touch with the business. “Come here
and sit in this chair near me.”
“I have come,” said I, sitting demurely
on a chair very close to him, and crossing
my knees, “to see you on very intimate busi-
ness.”
“Yes, yes, my dear,” he gushed, facing me,
and almost wriggling in the pleasure of
having such a pretty girl visit him.
Really, darling, it was quite simple. I
had heard Mr. Job defamed as a dirty old
man, but as I talked to him I gathered
my own impression—and thought him very
nice. As I talked he watched my legs —a
thing all men like to do —and I knew I
had fascinated him. I told him that Joe
wanted to marry Peggy, but of course mar-
riage' was impossible while Joe wasn't re-
ceiving a proper salary. I was quite frank
with him. I told him that Peggy and Joe might
manage to get along as it was, but when
the babies came —never! The poor old darl-
ing was quite overcome.
“I understand, I understand,” he kept re-
peating, patting my knee to emphasise his
words. “You are so soft-hearted you can’t
stand to see that young—my grandson
suffer.”
“Exactly,” I told him.
“What is this —er —Peggy like?” he asked
me. And I told him that lie saw her replica
in me. At that lie blinked his eyes—with
pleasure, I am sure. He seemed quite taken
aback that Joe could be interested in such
a charming girl.
Yes, darling, it was so easy. After a
while, when I rose to go and patted his
cheek, lie said he would do all he could —
and asked me to call and see him again.
I was quite jubilant over my success, and
could hardly wait to hear what came of
my work.
Two days later I rang Joe up.
“You!” he snarled, as soon as 1 made my-
self known. “I guessed it would be you.”
From the sound of his voice I guessed
something had gone wrong. “lias your
grandfather said anything to you?” I asked.
“Anything! Hell! —he said too much.”
“That was too bad,” I told him. “Because
lie said he would aid you.”
At the other end of tlio wire Joe seemed
to explode. I gathered that his grandfather
had called him into the office, asked him if
lie wanted to marry Peggy, and then laughed
THE EFFECT SHE HAS.
THE GIRL: “I think she’s very good looking."
THE MAN : “Well, she’s riot so good looking as disturbing—she makes bachelors wish
they were married, and benedicts wish they weren't."
at the poor boy. “And I’ll thank you to mind
your own business,” Joe very ungratefully
ended, and cut off in my ear.
But I was not discouraged. Little set-
backs like that always tend to make me
determined, I said to myself, “You simply
have to marry Peggy and Joe—marry them
to each other, I meant. And so, towards
this end, I again rang Joe that afternoon.
“Joe Parker,” I told him crossly, because
I really was angry, “you have made a mess
of this affair.”
“Me made a mess of it!” he said ungram-
matically and indignantly, and I could almost
see his small body trembling with passion—
temper-passion, I mean, darling. “I like
that.”
“I explained everything to your grand-
father so carefully,” I went on calmly, “and
he said”
“If you want to know what he said,”
Joe interrupted savagely, “it was that if
l’eggy was a brainless little fool like you,
he’d see me damned before he’d help me."’
And he rang off in my ear again.
Darling, I was rankled. As you know, I
am not brainless. I am one of those freak
girls who have both brains and beauty. My
boy friends tell me so. So you can imagine
how deeply hurt I was. I was more than
hurt; I was determined to get even with
that dirty old man who had double-crossed
me. The affair was now a personal one
between him and me. I was resolved to
have revenge. But to do so I must first
of all find out what had taken place between
Joe and him.
It was easier than I expected. Joe took
his grandfather’s ridicule as the death-knoll
of his affair with Peggy, and that very night,
at Sarah Lee’s party, he tried the age-old
trick of buying forgetfulness. By midnight
he wanted to kiss every pretty girl and weep
on her shoulder. I did not mind that, but
I thought things would go phut if Peggy
got to hear of it; and that would not do
at all. So I had to martyr myself and let
him kiss me and weep as I took him home
in a taxi.
His grandfather, I learned, had ridiculed
his idea of marrying, but he relented as far
as to say that if Joe could earn or make
three hundred pounds, lie might consider the
matter. Which showed just how much the
dirty old man thought of his grandson’s
abilities. And so as to attract Joe away
from Peggy, that mean old man made him
a present of an order for a Hush-a-bye Six
roadster.
Even with such opposition, I was not dis-
couraged. I had been accused of being
brainless by a person who had foully gone
back on his word. So I made it my busi-
ness to see Mr. Job Parker again.
And, darling, that old traitor fawned on
me when I was shown into his office by the
same frowsy secretary. But I was calm,
and I had on my prettiest frock —which
happens to be also the shortest.
“Mr. Parker,” I said, without any hedging,
“you have played a low-down trick on me,
and I am very hurt. I did not think you had
it in you.”
He was most apologetic, and patted my
hand all the while. He had not played any
trick on me; he had put Joe on his mettle.
If the hoy could assemble three hundred
pounds, then he would show himself capable
of keeping a wife.
But instinct warned me the old man was
laughing at me; so I grew firm.
“You have namby-pambied Joe so long,”
I said scornfully, “that you know he cannot
earn so much money.”
“If he wants this—-this young lady who
is like you,” the brute answered, “lie’ll
assemble that three hundred.”
I suggested that Joe could outwit him by
selling the ear—as the car was a gift to
Joe. Mr. Job cackled. That was one way
Joe could not get the money, he said. He
had stipulated that Joe must not sell or
raise the money by loan on the car. And, to
be candid, he didn’t think Joe would ever
marry Peggy. .
That made me mad. I had set my mind
to the match.
“What will you bet that I cannot marry
them to each other ?” I tempted.
Darling, you should have seen the look of
fear in that old man’s eyes as he swung round
to face the door! His boast was that he
was a good Christian man, a non-drinker,
non-smoker, non-bettor and a maker of such
moth-eaten resolutions.
“I never bet,” he told me crossly; but
I saw a gleam in his eyes.
“Barker’s have such a wonderful green hat
in their window,” I hinted, “and it’s only
nine guineas.”
Darling, that old resoluter wagered my
visiting him two afternoons a week against
the green hat that I couldn’t marry Joe to
Peggy. I said I could; and I made him
sign a little note to that effect. Not that
1 did not trust him, darling, but these old
men!
I wanted that green hat. I made up my
mind that I would have it. I made myself
sick trying to scheme a way to bring Joe
and Peggy before the altar. But it seemed
hopeless. Joe did not have much backbone.
Whenever I passed him he saw attraction on
the other side of the street. I felt so sorry
for him —he looked so washed out. Peggy
had heard about Sarah’s party, but instead
of snubbing Joe she had lectured him on
the errors of his ways. Peggy was so Vic-
torian.
And then, darling, came the great vision
from Heaven. Well, if not from Heaven, out
of the daily paper. You know Ido not read
the papers much, but that morning I was
scanning through the list of names of those
who had been grabbed the night before at Con-
nie Searle’s night club —in hopes of seeing
my own name. It was not there, and I was
disgusted—as Dad had roared terribly when
lie had bailed me out at daylight, and I felt
that I should have some compensation. How-
ever, just as I was throwing the paper aside,
a heading caught my eye—and I became
interested.
Darling, I saw my green hat on my head!
* * * *
Peggy told me about it afterwards. It
was a Sunday, and Joe had taken her to
a picnic arranged by the Hush-a-bye Six
people. And while Joe was elsewhere, and
nobody was near, Peggy threaded a piece of
oil-soaked string from the carburettor to
the dashboard of Joe’s car. Of course, she
said nothing to Joe. And, on the way home
from the picnic, while sbe was lighting a
cigarette and Joe was intent on his driving,
she managed to light the end of the string
under the dash. Then she smoked furiously,
hoping to kill the stench of the burning
string with cigarette smoke. And Joe didn’t
notice anything—until a sheet of flame shot
out from under the bonnet of the car.
That happened as they were passing
through a small outlying suburb. Joe was
perfectly heroic, Peggy said. He lifted her
out of the car and fussed about her, seeing
that she was all right, not bothering about
the flames enveloping his new car. And
though a crowd gathered round and did their
best, the car was gutted.
And, darling, when Joe was saying good-
night to - her, Peggy confessed. And Peggy
such a Victorian ! She said that she loved
Joe so much that she had .burned the car
so that he could get his three hundred pounds
—from the insurance people.
Joe was astounded. “You set it alight!”
he exclaimed. (Darling, you should have
heard Peggy telling this part. Proud!)
“Why, what about the cotton-waste I put-
on top of the engine just before we left the
picnic grounds? That set it alight.”
Darling, they say that lovers think alike.
There was proof. They had both taken
steps to burn that lovely car so that Joe
could collect fhe insurance. And of course
they got the money. I forgot to say that
Peggy’s father was a director in the company
in which the car was insured. He couldn't
very well accuse his own daughter of de-
frauding, could he?
Mr. Job? He was delighted. The real-
estate business needed tricksters, he said.
He’d left that one opening for Joe to assemble
the money, but he had really thought that
the boy cared more for the new car than
he did for Peggy. He was very pleased
indeed, though he tried to back out of giving
me the green hat. It was only when I
threatened to show his signed note to his
sons that he paid up. But he was very
excited when I kissed him for his generosity.
It was years since he had a lovely girl like
me kiss him.
Darling, that green hat was a dream. But
I was sorry I hadn’t made it the beautiful
blue dress in Finch’s.
F. S. HIBBLE.


tC n
VELVET
SHAVING STICK
■M.i t to. J. KiTCHri! a sons pnr. ltd.
Footballers’-
Pass it oil that there is no
liner feeling o t exhilara-
tmg well be mg” than
ailer a clean, close shave
with
INVESTMENT.
When an Investor consults his Solicitor or other adviser, it is not to
learn the interest or dividend rate a given investment will earn—that is
usually known.
Security is an important factor—another is the period of investment.
Given ample security for a suit ble term, the wise investor is satisfied with a
reasonable interest rate.
A Savings Account offers these advantages, and, in addition, L .ie
principal may be added to at any time, in amounts of from 1/- upwards, with
a corresponding increase in interest-earning; the money remains practically
at call, for it may be withdrawn at will.
Investment in a Savings Account may be made at any Post Office in
Australia, or at any Branch of the
tfomwnwealtb lank of Hnstralia
(Guaranteed by the Commonwealth Government.)
Energy.
Strengthen your nerves, work
more and better, and enjoy
your leisure with
SANATOCEN
The True Tonic Food. 1
Our Service Department
This page is set apart for the service of Bulletin readers.
„ If you want anything, including information, you are invited to write to the
Service Department.
. . -,I^ e service is entirely free. All you have to do is to attach the coupon from the
inside back cover of last Bulletin to hand.
Readers obliging with replies need not attach coupons.
The right of selection and rejection is reserved.
To facilitate search it is desirable that questions be asked on only one subject at
a tune.
Wants.
Experienced Norwegian farmer anxious
get employment as farm hand on mixed
farm. (Replies direct to Arne Jucl, Box
2566 E. Sydney.)—949.
Ex-country storekeeeper, expert book-
keeper, generally handy, driver’s license,
wants employment, anything, anywhere.—-
954.
Station manager (sheep), lifelong experi-
ence. open for engagement. Managed large
properties Western N.S.W. and C.Q. ; highest
refs. —964.
Help me to obtain a position as caretaker
or any position of trust. Been dairying, but
have had the misfortune to lose all my stock,
and must get some sort of job. Plenty refer-
ences as to character, etc. At present in
Victoria.—96s.
Woolclasser would like to hear of an early
shed: experience in most districts of
N.S.W.; excellent credentials; recommended
by leading brokers and owners.—9sl.
Anybody got a job—anything at all —with
a couple of hours’ leisure per day? Con-
scientious service rest of time, in return for
board and lodging and pocket money. Used
hard manual labor. English Public School
education. Can do anything, but am sick
of job hunting. Genuine. Excellent personal
references. Age 25. Urgent.—lolo.
Laundress, strong, capable, Monday and
Friday vacant; cleaning if required. Rand-
wick or Coogee preferred. Ex. refs. —1014.
Lady, 24. high-speed stenographer and
typiste, 7 years’ office experience, wants
evening work (Sydney) ; will do it at home
if required.—lols.
A set of Gent.’s Felt Ilat Blocks; price
and particulars to No. 1012.
Book-keeper, 23, 3 years’ experience large
Vic. tailoring firm, wants position as book-
keeper, sheep or cattle station. Northern
N.S.W.; ordered to dry climate. Refs. —990.
Station-manager, 20 yrs.’ experience cattle-
sheep. 41 yrs. war service, wants to return
station life, C.Q. preferred. Since war man-
aging plantations Now Guinea, but family
is growing to school age. Can keep books
and expert pumps, windmills and boring;
motor driver. —989.
To sell exceptionally good mixed farm,
240 ac., Tas. North-west Coast, close rail and
port. Over £BOOO spent on improvements.
Owner leaving; will accept £5500 or offei*. —
1004.
Exchange modern novels for present-day
drama and works of literary criticism, bio-
graphy. travel and history.—loos.
To sell 148 ac. freehold; about 5 ac. ban-
anas, majority to bear this season; 4 ac.
beans, 90 ac. hill (volcanic), rest good swamp.
Six r. house, other buildings, well sub-divided.
Perfect situation, 3 m. from Tweed Heads.
Fishing, shooting. £2500. —1009.
Sell Brick Bungalow, Randwick. 7 r.,
garage, car entrance. 65 x 150 ft. Torrens.
£1700.-1013.
To sell dairy farm, Atherton tableland
(N.Q.). 144 ac., all grassed; 3 paddocks; 4-
r. house, milking shed, 37 x 17. concreted;
furniture. £3OOO freehold. Half cash, bal-
ance 2 years. Rainfall perfect.—974.
Will post kikuyu roots, strong, well grown
and well packed, ready for planting, 4s, per
300. (Replies direct to G. B. Evans, Box 81.
Atherton, N.Q.) —992.
To invest £l2OO to £l4OO in really reliable
business. Brisbane preferred; not young, but
full of energy, and with some horse sense.
Want occupation with prospect of good
return. —995.
Gentleman, well and fa\jprably known
through Queensland, would represent south-
ern firm ; any bond. —988.
Address of Mrs. Robert Hogarth, late of
Tasmania. —937.
To sell business in leading Australian city
before Christmas. Doing big turnover in
antiques, brasses, rugs, linen, Oriental goods,
cite.; stand any investigation; competent
staff. Owner teach incomer.—936.
Few old copies of Connoisseur. —947.
I have a good country motor-bus proposi-
tion. but haven’t the finance. I would like
to correspond with someone who, after being
thoroughly satisfied, would invest about
£lOOO. It looks quite safe,—96B.
Information Sought.
Can l lay poison baits in my garden } If
not, what steps can I tulcc to yet rid of a
neighbor’s destructive dog?—Ad o3.
The owner is the custodian of his dog. If
ho allows it to run at large then see. It) of
the Dog and Goat Act (1808) applies:
“The owner of every dog shall be liable in
damage for injury done to any person, pro-
perty, or animal by his dog, and it shall not
be necessary for the party seeeking such
damages to show a previous mischievous pro-
pensity in such dog, or the owner’s know-
ledge of such previous propensity, or that
the injury was attributable to neglect on the
part of such owner.” To lay baits is to take
unforeseen risks.
Have a few hundred'■ pounds in cash and
want advice re investing it so it will return
we something. Am quite unfamiliar with
shares, and a purchase without guidance
would be a move in the dark. —953.
The return depends mainly on the risk the
investor is prepared to take. If he puts
safety first, he will buy Government stocks;
they will return him from 5 to 5-£ p.c. From
that point he can get an increasing return by
taking an increasing risk. In the next group
will be some bank and trustee co. shares.
Generally, these will give certainly no more
than Government stock, and often less; but
they will carry chances of a rise, perhaps of
bonus shares. Next group includes pref.
shares (with a large backing of ordinary
shares), and such stocks as Colonial Sugars,
the older insurance cos. (but you have to be
careful there), and the like. Be sure of this:
you cannot, unless you have amazing luck,
have both safety and a high return —say
more than or 7 p.c. And beware of the
share-hawker. Incidentally, The Bulletin
publishes a monthly specially to help the
investor. Two shillings may seem a good
deal to pay for a copy; but even the small
investor can easily lose a thousand times
that much by not knowing things the
Monthly will tell him.
(1) An invalid pensioner and wife have
no property or income. How much can the
wife earn weekly with free house and with-
out reduction of husband’s pension, (a) for
herself alone, (b ) for herself and one child?
(2). The invalid pensioner’s life is insured
for £2OO. Will the commissioner claim any
part of the insurance at death or maturity of
policy? —9ll.
(1) In the case of husband and wife the
income and property of each are deemed
to be possessed by both in equal shares. The
Act further provides that no pension shall
be at such a rate as will make pensioner’s
deemed income, together with pension, exceed
£B4 10s. per annum. So the wife in this case
could earn 255. per week without affecting
the pension payable to the husband. The
question of any allowance in respect of chil-
dren is decided by the Commissioner, of Pen-
sions. Melbourne. (2) As regards property
the Act provides that where a pensioner has
property the pension shall be subject to a
deduction of £1 for every £lO by which the
value of the property exceeds £5O. Where
husband and wife are both pensioners, the
exemption is £25. The surrender value of
the policy in this case would he deemed to be
property; but as we don’t know the surren-
der value we can’t say whether it would be
sufficient to affect the pension.
In a mixed foursome, when the lady drives
from the tee and the ball is found to be
unplayable, if it is decided to pay the pen-
alty of stroke and distance, who should then
play 3 off the tee, the lady or the man? —
840.
The man.
In foursomes at golf if your partner misses
the ball, does he play until he hits it? —908.
No. it is his partner’s turn to hit.
Is there a rule in golf forbidding a player
■when addressing a ball to touch the ground
with his etub ? —B7O.
There is no rule forbidding a player
to touch the ground, hut he must not
press the ground down behind tin' ball
with his club. In putting a player is allowed
to ground his putter in front of the ball
before striking.
(1) What Australian publishers will buy
novels of Australian life? (2) Which firm
buys juvenile stories? (3) Must all MU. be
typed? —993.
(1) Bulletin’s sister, the Woman’s
Mirror, wants MS. between 70.000 and 80.000
words for serial publication; and book pnbli-
cation can always follow. (2) Ward, Lock
and Co., Little Lonsdale-street, Melbourne;
Angus and Robertson, 99 Castlereagli-street,
Sydney, (3) Editors prefer it typed, but as
a rule no objection is taken to legible band-
writing.
/.s- there any mechanism to attach to an
ordinary gramophone to take records for re-
production?—s)B3.
There has not yet been any satisfactory
recording apparatus for home use. Firstly,
because the recording disc, being soft wax.
will not bear reproduction more than two or
three times. Secondly, the results obtained
from the home recording device are but a
faint echo of the factory-made record. We
don't know of any recording mechanism in
Australia, but there is one sold in U.S.A. for
about 35 dollars.
(1) What is the correct angle of gramo-
phone needle to record , using Jewel tone-
reproducer and H.M.V. record? (2) Should
the needle touch record with any definite
pressure? (3) How can surface noises he
reduced? (4) What is the cause of over-
tones and how eliminatedt —076.
(.1) Correct angle of needle on record is at
7 o’clock position. (2) The needle pressure
on record should be Goz. (3) Surface noise
can be reduced only by using soft-toned steel
or fibre needles. (4) Overtones are some-
times caused by the diaphragm of the
speaker or by a looseness in the joints of the
tone-arm. The amplifier should not have any
cracks or loose parts, as these tend to set up
sympathetic vibration. Loose needle cups or
stray needles on the motor board are also
affected in this way. To make sure that
the fault is not in the speaker (reproducer)
have it overhauled by an expert.
Five years ago my wife deserted me. Could
I successfully sue for divorce, she Icing a
Catholic? What would the approximate cost
of a suit he? —910.
In law marriage is a civil contract and
independent of any religious ceremonial that
may accompany it. There is no reason why
you should not sue for a divorce. No esti-
mate of cost can be given, as it depends upon
the circumstances of the case. A solicitor
with the whole facts before him might be
able to give you an estimate.
I have almost completed purchase of a
block of ground. How can I go about the
transfer from the agent to myself without
legal assistance? Ilow many trips to Syd-
ney would it involve? —S77.
If, as probable, it is Torrens’ Title, write
to Lands Titles Office, Queen’s Square
(Sydney), and ask for a form, “Memoran-
dum of Transfer,” to be forwarded to you ;
enclose 6d. in stamps and stamped envelope
bearing your address. The marginal notes
on the form supply information as to filling
it in and requirements. The transferror is
of course the present owner, and he will hold
the certificate of title that will have to be
endorsed. See him about it. It should not
necessitate many trips to Sydney if you
comply strictly with instructions. It is
assumed there is no encumbrance on the pro-
perty.
May a homestead selection ( N.S.W .) be
mortgaged without first obtaining permission
from the Minister? —967.
Yes.
What value are carpet-snake skins . 10//.
or over? Are skins under 10ft. worth any-
thing? What Jinn will buy a small lot?
Should the outside scales be left on? Arc
black-snake skins any value? Or lizard?
—872.
The best market available for skins is up
to 10ft. or slightly over; if too large the
skins turn up. The biggest buyers in Sydney
are Tost and Roliu Fur Co., 20 Trafalgar-
street, Newtown. In preparing skins to
send away they should be very carefully
removed, leaving the scales on. and well
salted with common salt. If dried in the
sun they should not be exposed too long, as
they become parched and perish. Black-snake
and lizard skins are of value. Lizards
should be skinned by cutting down the back.
(1) What, idaces in Sydney teach cookery
and domestic science and at what rates? (2)
Shortest time to get a diploma (or its equi-
valent \? (3) Is it open daily, and what
vacations?- -939.
A “certificate” course for two years in
domestic science (cookery, household man-
agement. laundry work, home sanitation,
medical hygiene, and nursing practice, bread-
making, chemistry and physiology) can be
had at the East Sydney Technical College,
Darlinghurst. Fee, £3 3s. per annum. Daily
instruction. Vacations: Week at end of
May and end of August, and long vacation
between end of November and end of Feb-
ruary. Further particulars from Dept, of
Women’s Handicrafts at the College.
Names and addresses of universities and
tech, colleges, Melbourne and Sydney, which
enable one to pass the exam, for Assoc. Mem-
ber of the Inst, of Civil Engineers, London?
—941.
The course in civil engineering at Work-
ing Men's College, Melb.. and similar course
at Sydney Tech, is not designed specially
to prepare students for admission into the
institution mentioned, but to give them a
sound knowledge of the subject. Applicants
for admission to the London Inst, of Civil
Engineers should apply to the Sec. at Great
George-atreet, London, S.W,I, where his
credentials are examined. If they are satis-
fied he is qualified to sit; examination papers
arc sent to the Australian secretary, Mr. T.
Burroughs, Public Works Dept., Sydney,
who conducts the exam. A Uni. degree
exempts one from the exam.
(1) The meaning of the letters F.A.M.L.
behind a pianist's name? (2) Where can
/ get a' song sung by Amy Castles, “In
Flanders Field”? —978.
(1) The degree is not mentioned in the
“Musical Year Book” or known to Sydney
musicians. (2) Not stocked by Sydney
music-sellers.
Information Supplied.
795. —I tried that blue-wash for keeping
flies out of the kitchen. It’s no good. But
the marks they make show up even worse
than on white, I think.—“ Homo.”
G 36. —To render a kerosene-tin rustproof.
Tar, lgal.; dry oxide, 61b.; i-pint shellac var-
nish (made by dissolving Mb. shellac in lqt.
methylated spirits). Make the kerosene tin
warm, pour in the mixture, swirl it around
and turn upside down to drain. Do the same
for the outside. —“Bayles Street.”
255. —Galvanised-iron docs not really
sweat. It is just condensation of moisture
from within on the cold surface of the iron.
Put boards or hessian and paper below the
iron—anything to prevent the moisture in the
air reaching the cold iron.—“Bayles Street.”
Does Anybody Know?
Wliat is the best way to poison foxes with
strychnine? (In detail, please.) Is it neces-
sary to take off the claws when skinning? —
973.
Name and address of agents or firms carry-
ing the Nat. Marine engine, made by Tor-
bina Eng. Co., Eng.? —977.
I have an underground 6000 -gal. tank, built
of brick and cemented, lift. Gin. deep. About
4. ft. from the top there is a crack which
loses water, especially in dry weather. How
can I stop this leak? —9Bl.
Brief Answers.
S.E.A.: Unless you are fully experienced
and thoroughly satisfied about your intended partner
and the business, leave it alone. Small partnerships are
extremely dangerous for the unsophisticated man to
touch.. . .E.J.S.: Lock it up and forget all about it.
It may surprise you some day. But don’t expect to
be able to sell it at any time you please.... ILR.:
5. Howard, Balaclava and Waterloo roads, Eastwood,
N.S.W. ; Phoenix Fireworks Co., 223 Exhibition-street,
Melbourne. . . .G.11.F. (Dunedin) : Quite sound and very
well handled.... S.H.: Commonwealth Wool and Pro-
duce Co., 3 Bent-street, Sydney—Bs. fid. gallon in
5-gal. drums; 9s. fid. gallon in 1-gal. drums....
C.E.8.: Lyttelton Times (Christchurch) and Fiji
Times ; monthly reports by the Stock Exchanges of
Wellington, Dunedin, Auckland and Christchurch;
and The Bulletin’s own “Wild Cat” Monthly....
E.H.: The Flying Squadron under Admiral Hornby
arrived in Sydney December 12, 1869... .11.E.H.:
Presumably you refer to a maintenance order under
the Deserted Wives and Children Act of N. S. Wales.
Having consented to the order, you could not now annul
it by withdrawing consent; but if the circumstances
have undergone any material change since the order
was made, you can apply to the Court that made it
for a variation of its order, and the Court has
power to vary it down to ni1 .... L.F.8.: If it is a
State secondary school you want a. position in, write
Department of Education in either State. If a
private secondary school, write Teachers’ Guild.
Kembla Buildings, 58 Margaret-street, Sydney; and
Associated Teachers’ Agency, Little Collins-street,
Melbourne... .A.W.; (1) Not very keen on them.
You could get something safer. But there’s no
reason to rush in and sacrifice them. (2) Don’t
expect much of a premium at any time.... J.Y.:
Depends almost wholly upon education and aptitude.
Chances in newspaper work are more numerous; but
you’d probably have to make a start as a cadet....
E.M.M.: (1) As “lady members” are so called in
the book of ycur rules the presumption is that you
are lady members. But all privileges given to
women are fixed by the men’s committee. (2) There
is nothing to prevent women members of a golf
club joining the S.A. or N.S.W. Golf Union. Your
standing would not be affected in any way.... L.R.:
Recipe printed jn B. 14/-1 /’ 27 ; clipping posted.
. ...M.K.: “Book Auction Records” for the past 10
years does not mention the volumes; which suggests
that, like most old works of a theological nature,
they have very little money value... .G.A.C.W.: “The
Poultry Book for Australasia,” by 11. R. Harris,
25.; Dymock’s, 428 George-street, Sydney F.T.:
The visiting hockey team is not England’s best;
it contains only two or three internationals. It
was, however, the best team available for the tour.
. ...E.J.: Care Vaughan Marshall, Palace Theatre,
Bourke-street, Melbourne... .G.C.C.: For the Sydney
metropolitan area: Motor-cars, 68 killed, 2075
injured; other motor vehicles (including motor-
cycles, lorries and ’buses), 73 killed and 1393 in-
jured. .. .H.T.: All depends on the risks you are
prepared to take. It may give good returns, but
you could find a hundred safer things.... (Many
others mailed.)


BLACK & WHITE
§B*ay
il i HHi mss
V&4&-, ■ k Pi
■
*' • ' ! '
st s ' ; . ■ ■ ; .
k
m ~ * o*' ..■ I • vv* •
nZWwmi
: r ‘
’ •
:i , * SI Sw
■mmrn.
Wmmm
II
'
j
"
/7E4Z. SCOTCH.
SCOTCH WHISKY
JAMES BUCHANAN & CO., LTD., I to 5 GROSVENOR STREET, SYDNEY.


Macmillan’s
NEW BOOKS.
The prices advertised are those at which the
books are published in London. Prices outside
the British Isles must be fixed by the importing
bookseller.
The Statesman’s Year Book
for 1927.
Edited by M. EPSTEIN, M.A., Ph.D.
With Maps. 2<)s. net.
The Daily Mail : “Just as up-to-date, as
accurate, and as full of information about every
country as ever.”
MACMILLAN’S EMPIRE LIBRARY.*
NEW VOL.
The Absolute at Large.
A Fantastic Story.
By KAREL CAPEK, Author of
“R.U.R.,” “The Insect Play,” etc.
The Evening Standard: “Scientific men some-
times give us a glimpse of what may happen
when man can harness the atom. Karel
Capek has gone farther and envisioned a world
in which atomic energy, having been harnessed,
first provides mankind with a new religion
and then sets all the world at war. It is a
disturbing vision as well as a fine piece of
satire.”
Great English Churchmen Series.
Edited by SIDNEY DARK, 6s. net ca.
THOMAS ARNOLD.
By Rev. R. J. CAMPBELL. D.D.
ST. THOMAS OF CANTERBURY.
By SIDNEY DARK.
THOMAS CRANMER.
By Rev. ANTHONY C. DEANE,
M.A., Hon. Canon of Worcester
Cathedral.
ARCHBISHOP LAUD.
By S. A. DUNCAN-JONES.
JOHN WESLEY.
By the Very Rev. W. H. HUTTON,
D.D., Dean of Westminster.
Send for prospectus.
A Treatise on Viticulture.
By A. I. PEROLD, 8.A., Ph.D., Pro-
fessor of Viticulture and Oenology in
the University of Stellenbosch. Illus-
trated. 255. net.
The Farmer's Weekly, Sth. Africa: “The
clearness of exposition and the numerous illus-
trations in regard to propagation, grafting, prun-
ing, etc., go to make a ' very complete and
admirable guide to the whole subject, which
includes the manufacture of vinegar, syrups
and the production of raisins, currants, etc.”
To bo Obtained from all
Booksellers.
MACMILLAN & CO, LTD.
MELBOURNE & LONDON, W.C.2.
Facts
Petrols X, Y and Z each claim a merit
w—each has ONE special quality;
Shell Has Them All
Y \
EXTRA
POWER
X
GOOD \
starting!
m
—4 EVERY GOOD
z V QUALITY
keepsX. y
ENGINE
CLEAN
■m
i
I
H
+
ml
4
Most spirits will run a car —
Many spirits have some special qualities —
But only SHELL, with its
immense world-wide resources
—- the world’s best oil fields
and the world’s best brains
— can produce SHELL.
The most popular Spirit
in Australia, and the
standard of the world .
THE BRITISH IMPERIAL OIL COMPANY LTD. — THROUGHOUT AUSTRALIA U NEW ZEALAND
S 3 40
I
m
Motor Spirit
ensitecKnicdlilies
No 5
THE FRAGRANCE OF
KENSITAS CIGARETTES
M
s#a
s *>
.-'>N
c*S
~j c ©
9
<2?
S?
<S>
rNl^
Kensitas
cigarettes
FRAGRANCE
The aroma of
Ivensitas is most
pleasing.
They arp as good
as really good
cigarettes can be.
lO for 9 D
20 for l/e
In tins of
50’s and 100's.
nature's Svvee T£st
FLOWEf?S ARE INDUCED
To Y I6LO TH6II?
Divine pragpance
To every LEAF
DESTINED To BECOME
A KENSITaS.
Manufactured by J. WIX <fc SONS, LTD., London.
Australasian Representative: P. Saunders, 90 Pitt St., Sydney N 5.
■
Sportsmen
Requiring
BLACK POWDER
CARTRIDGES
Should Use
ELEY UNIVERSAL
Loaded with
U.T.S. No. 2 BLACK POWDER
This new powder is the outcome of
exhaustive tests by skilled chemists in the
leading laboratories in Great Britain and
gives results unsurpassed by any other
Black Powder Cartridge.
WADS AND SHOT OF HIGHEST GRADE.
CARTRIDGES LOADED UNDER
STRICTEST SUPERVISION.
BALLISTICS PERFECT.
A TRIAL WILL CONVINCE THE
MOST CRITICAL SPORTSMAN.
ALL-BRITISH
Cap to
Turnover
■
Up
m
■


V
99
>B5/- “Winner” fiCf
Tennis Racquet for ww( “
A Great Special at Murdoch’s. Super-
excellent hand-made frame of two
pieces, rent ash. Strung with finest
English gut.
Postage Free. Write to Desk R.
MURDOCH’S IN PARR ST. LTD., SYDNEY
ALL AUSTRALIANS visiting London
should read the British Australian
and New Zealander, 6d. weekly—an illus-
trated paper containing mail and cable news
from Australia and news of Australians in
Europe and at home. Australians are cordi-
ally invited to visit the British Australian
and New Zealander Reading-room at the
Offices, 414-17 Australia House, Strand,
London, WC.2, where they can see the home
papers, meet their friends, use the telephone
and obtain information without charge.
Copies of the paper and general information
can be obtained at the Australian Advertis-
ing Agency. Ltd.. 350 George Street, Sydney;
or 434 Collins Street, Melbourne.
Don't wish for the Best —get it.
RESCH’S
LAGER, DINNER ALE,
PILSENER & STOUT.
RESCH’S BITTER ALE.
AUSTRALIA’S BEST BITTER.
Western Australian Distributors:
BURNS, PHILP & CO., LTD., PERTH AND GERALPTON.
HARVEY’S “SPECIAL” Whisky
AN OLD “SPOT” MELLOWED BY AGE.
Sole Agents: RESCH’S. I/TD., Redfern, Sydney.
[4.
15he
W. W. GREENER
"EMPIRE”
Hammerless Gun
Obtainable from all Retailers.
Price £2l,
Wholesale Representatives:
W. P. THOMPSON 8 CO. PTY., LTD.
405-7 Lonsdale Street,
Melbourne.
SPORTING
NOTIONS
Man acre was sent out a 2-to-l favorite for
the last race, the Morang Handicap, but
he found 9st. 21b. far too much to carry in
the heavy going, the well-backed 1 atroleus
(4 to 1) winning in good style from Red
Sea (12 to 1) and Kay (12 to 1). It took
them lmin. 33sec. to run the seven furlongs.
* * * *
Drawbridge (Bridge of Earn II asty
Flight) can gallop when in the mood, but
the trouble is to get him in the mood. He
ran very badly in the July Handicap at
Warwick Farm on Saturday week, but in
the Canterbury Handicap on Saturday he
always had the measure of a held which
included Hinchinbrook, the Warwick Farm
winner. Perhaps Percival was responsible
for the sudden improvement; this Westralian
jockey can kick ’em along to some purpose.
Rawhetu, favorite for Drawbridge’s race,
never showed up, and the heavily-backed
Clialder, though second to Drawbridge (6 to
1) at the home turn, failed to come on;
Bonaventure (10 to 1) and Sir Honor (7 to
1) were nearest to Percival’s mount at the
end. Those who took the odds about Kil-
larney—2 to 1 in a held of 16 —for the
Flying Handicap would have sold out cheap
after they had gone a furlong, but. Mrs.
Otway Falkiner’s horse worked his way
through like a good one and deprived
Lady Thurza (12 to 1) of victory by
a head, Golden Grist (5 to 1) being a close
third and Zuleika a flying fourth, while
Greenie showed pace till her condition gave
out. If Killarney keeps on improving he
will have to be reckoned dangerous in the
Epsom with 7st. 51b. He was ridden by
Adams, who had previously been successful
on Windbag’s half-sister Ardennes (10 to 1)
in a race for two-year-olds. Kelso saddled
up a promising Magpie gelding in Spruiker
(9 to 2), who gave just on 2st. and a beat-
ing (though there wasn’t much in it) to a
smart two-year-old, Holbrook Belle, in the
Trial Stakes. The distance was one mile 75
(Jnder the Whip
Quite the feature of the day's racing at
Moonee Valley (Vic.) on Saturday was the
runaway victory of Arcadius in the Banya
Hurdle. This Honorius —Witch of the
Wind gelding had not started since his good
second to Deauville in the Trial Hurdle
at Flemington, and Bindweed, on her Caul-
field form —she was second to Sandhurst in
the Leamington Hurdle —was most in de-
mand at first; but so much money came for
Arcadius that he finished up a firm favorite
at 3 to 1, Bindweed being 7 to 2, Fred
Brown (making his first appearance since
his Sydney trip) 4 to 1 and Lough Ailbe
5 to 1. The favorite and Fred Brown were
always near the front, and over the last
half of the journey had the race to them-
selves. Jumping the last hurdle in great
style Arcadius donkey-licked Fred Brown
in the race to the judge’s box; Dale End,
a 33-to-l shot, was third. Arcadius, who
is owned by A. J. Simpson and trained by
R. W. Evans, was ridden by Don Wraight.
Anything Frank Leonard rides is sure
of big backing in Melbourne just now, and
despite Johnny Cake’s easy win at Caulfield
Frank’s mount, Ancient Mariner, was a
3-to-l favorite for the Brunswick Steeple,
Johnny Cake being next at 5 to 1; West
Wimmera and Welcome Stranger also had
good support at that figure. Ancient Mariner,
fencing beautifully, was always near the
front, and over the last six furlongs he and
Johnny Cake had an exciting tussle. They
jumped the last fence together, but Ancient
Mariner finished too strongly for the other
and beat him by 2$ lengths; Welcome Stran-
ger was a moderate third. The winner, a
distinctly promising ’chaser, is owned and
trained by J. Hickey. Trafalgar sired him.
The Warroona Welter, six furlongs, was
run in divisions; the Wolaroi mare Waranie
(5 to 1) scored easily in the first division
from Coolgardie (5 to 1) and Thononga
(20 to 1), and the Woorak filly Wedau
(3 to 1) downed the 5-to-2 favorite Switzer-
land and Valoden (9 to 2) in the second
division. Followers of Lou Robertson's
stable plunged on March (5 to 2) in the
Nonga Handicap, 9§ furlongs, but he took
no part in the finish; Royal Simon (4 to 1).
slipping through on the rails, won a good
race by three-quarters of a length from a
rank outsider, Woodend (20 to 1), and St.
Lazar (12 to 1). Phil Heywood trains the
winner, who is by Sydney’s old friend Wal-
lace Isinglass—Smart Simene, for Tas-
manian racing-man T. Lyons, and the time
was 2min. 61sec.
Bonnie Bob (6 to 1) was first past the
post in the Keera Welter, but interference
in the straight cost him the race, the stewards
upholding the protest in favor of Oobranveil
(8 to 1)/; Bonnie Bob was placed second.
FOOTBALL ITEM.
“Receiving no effective assistance from his supports, Spilker made a last desperate
effort to break away on his own.”
yards, and Spruiker covered it in the same
time —lmin. 46sec. —that Mak Siccar (5 to
11 registered in the Club Welter, wherein that
pretty good plater accounted for Woodville,
Bacagi and Beelgah among others. Spruiker’s
dam is Bronze Hook, one of whose sons,
Varnev, has won at 13 furlongs.
* * * *
For Rosehill on Saturday:—
Auburn Handicap: Aorangi, 1; Chateau
Tanunda. 2.
Club Handicap: Drawbridge, 1; Fondant,
2.
Rydalmere Mile: Star Rocket* 1; On-
w T ard, 2.
And for Canterbury Park on Monday:—
Tellers’ Handicap: Greenie, 1; Zuleika, 2.
Holiday Handicap : Bonaventure, 1; Chal-
der. 2.
Campsie Handicap: Boonala, 1 ; Avrom, 2.
* * * *
“Reformed Urger”: Th’ cove that wuz
slingin’ orf at th’ ’eavy s.-p. bettin’ (B.
21/7/’27) wuz crackin’ a bit more th'n
’e knoo. ’E seems t’ be mucked up over a
bloke landin’ a decent wad uv a coupler
bob. ’E c’n take it fr’m me that’s nothin’
ter make a song about. I’ve given up th’
game now, but I wuz with a bloke on Kenso
“outer” th’ other day, an’ I seen ’im land
a dollar in one bet. O’ course, th’ Tom
’ad ter arsk f’r time, but ’e paid out like
a reel gent, arfter th’ nex’. But I’ve ’ad
me disserpointments in th’ puntin’ game.
I wuz doin’ real bad at Breakfus’ Creek,
Brisbin, in th’ ole pony days; after th’ larst
I wuz two bob down on th’ five I come there
with. ‘"Dicky,” sez I, w’en up comes a dame
I knoo. “C’lect this,” she sez, ’urried like;
“me ’usband’s just come in with a john”;
an’ she breaks. I takes a squint at th’
brief an’ sees it marked “17”—th’ winner
started at sixteens —an’ knoo I wuz ’ome-
an’-dried. Two o’ th’ lads comes up, an’
before collectin’ I arsks ’em ter stop one.
Then I goes over ter th’ Tom an’ ’e ’ands
me one an’ fi’pence. Th’ girlie's bet wuz
a brown. It’s a fearful walk inter Brisbin
from Breakfus’ Creek, too.
;Js *!• ••• ;Jt
“Mick th’ Roller”: Staiwe tli’ crows,
things is terrible on tli’ South Johnst’n!
I ain’t got a charnce ter turn a bloke over
since th’ row started, f’r none o’ tli’ cows
is gettin’ any bronzo. So I’ve been readin’
th’ rags in th’ School of Arts, and first
thing I strikes is a Sydnee yap about a
punter w’at refused a ’undred ter one
from a bagman at one o’ th’ races. Th’
reporter cove makes a fuss about it, an’
asks w’at did tli’ cove want to go runnin’
away for. Speakin’ as an ole ’and in the
game, before I took on me present perfes-
sion, I’ll say ’e wuz a senserbil cove. It’s
a pretty good scheme w’en y’ arsk tli’ price
uv an ’orse an’ th’ lad on th’ soapbox says
“Hundred ter one” ter start runnin’ —an’
keep on runnin’ as long as y’r condition’ll
larst.
* * * *
“Ride Off”: The N.S.W. Polo Association
opened its annual tourney for the Dudley
Cup on Saturday at Kensington racecourse.
The meeting lacked a bit of the old sparkle;
not only were teams from other States
absent, but the N.S.W. entries were not as
numerous as usual. A new combination
in the Wanderers, gathered together by Tony
Hordern and including such fine players as
Major Fred White, of Glen Innes, and Nor-
man Allen, of Cooma, was watched with
interest in the opening match against Scone;
the Wanderers, by far the better mounted,
won easily by 11 goals 12 behinds to 2
goals 2 behinds. Stickwork on both sides
was far from accurate, but when the Wan-
derers settled to their work there was an
improvement. The same tendency was notice-
able when the Harden lads, winners of the
Cup for two seasons past, lathered Curran-
dooley by 16 goals 17 behinds to 1 goal 3
behinds. Harden’s opening play was rough,
hut the three Ross brothers and A. McLaurin
settled down as the game progressed and
came home on the bit. It was not a day of
great polo, but the Kenso turf is notoriously
awkward for teams just off the fast, hard
country pitches. In the second round the
finely-mounted Goilburn -club towelled up
Sydney by 12 goals 12 behinds to 6
behinds, showing high-class combination and
hitting with exceptional accuracy. Goulburn
made a distinct impression.
Footbrawl
The third intcr-State match of the season
between the N.S.W. and Queensland Rugby
Leagues was played at Brisbane Exhibition
Ground on Saturday, the home side winning
a hard game by 11 points to 7 —three tries
and a goal to a try and two goals. The
Welshmen opened the scoring with a penalty
goal by Hardy, but tries by Henderson and
Spencer gave the Northerners a lead of four
points at half-time. A try for which Hughes
was responsible—some of the critics ques-
tioned it —was converted by Craig, this com-
pleting Queensland’s score. The Welshmen
hung on grimly, and Kelly scored a fine try,
which was converted bv Hardy. Full-back
McMillan did wonders for the Light Blues.
Gorman and Aynsley were out of the north-
ern team, a fair set-off to the absence of
Wearing and O’Rourke from the N.S.W.
backs. The game was played cleanly, but
N.S.W. players and press correspondents
vigorously dissected the umpiring in post-
mortems. Queenslanders did the same thing
after the first match in Sydney; perhaps
the trouble is that there are too many rules.
Toowoomba, which has a great record against
visiting teams, beat the tourists in their
first match.
Sydney League footballers were consider-
ably astonished when University beat East-
ern Suburbs by 12 to 8 at Wentworth Park.
On Eaist’s recent form—it had! defeated
South Sydney and drawn with St. George—
no respectable bookmaker would have quoted
a price for Uni. as a winner. East was
hardly at full strength, but with O’Rourke
out the same can be said for Uni. Newtown
scored 16 to 15 in a stoushful encounter with
Western Suburbs; West was attacking when
the whistle stayed hostilities. North Sydney
took another step up by downing Balmain,
15-13, at Birchgrove, where ref. and line
umps. now leave the stricken field in a
body, “just in case.” South Sydney got
away with Glebe by 26 to 11, in a game that
was positively ladylike in comparison with
some of its recent forerunners.
“Solidarity”: There is a delicious touch
in an account of a League match at Molong
(N.S.W.). A player, ordered off, knocked
out the referee and a general melee ensued.
When the police had sorted out the comba-
tants, the side aggrieved at. the assault on
the referee held a “stop-play” meeting to
consider if it would continue the match.
“Only by a majority vote” did it consent
to carry" on. Somehow it suggests the sol-
diers’ committees in the Soviet army holding
meetings on the question of obeying the
order to advance or executing a strategic
movement to the rear. The majority-vote
decision should hearten those now busy form-
ing a professional footballers’ union, for it
shows that the true principle is there.
* * # $
The Rugby Union Waratahs, en route to
England, played a match against the Vic-
torian R.U. at the Melbourne Motordrome,
winning by 19-9. The tourists shook things up
in the second half, and showed some pretty
passing bouts to the gathering of 2000 ( !)
enthusiasts. In the Sydney premiership
games University clinched its hold on the
Shute Shield by outing Glebe-Balmain, 33
to 18. Both sides were depleted by Waratah
departures, but Uni. seems, able to dig up
high-grade juniors at a moment’s notice for
every place in the field. Manly departed
from precedent by winning a match, 20 to
3; Randwick, sorely depleted of its best
backs, was the victim. North Sydney drew
with Eastern Suburbs, 9-9, and with Pratt
again conspicuous Y.M.C.A. gained its second
win for the season by beating a re-built
Western Suburbs side, 19-9.
“Full-back” : As has always been the case
with Rugby Union teams, the backbone of
the Waratahs has been supplied by Sydney’s
Great Public Schools. Grammar is repre-
sented by Ross, Mann, Wallace, Blair, Fox,
Finlay and Storey; King’s School by Egan
and Sheehan; St. Joseph’s by Woods, E.
E. Ford and J. A. Ford; High by King and
Tarleton; and Newington by Judd. The
Manly Public School has four ex-scholars
among »the tourists —Duncan, Blackwood,
Bland and Greatorex. Lawton learnt his
game at Brisbane Grammar; J. L. Tancred
played in the Marist Brothers’ (M.L.) team,
and A. J. Tancred bogged in for St. Pat-
rick’s College, Wellington (M.L.).
***•••
“Past Grammar”: Old Rugby Unionists
will rejoice to hear that “Taffy” Parish is
getting over a bad spell of sickness; he is
now convalescing in Sydney. “Taff,” who is
manager of the N.S.W. Government Savings
Bank at Bowral (N.S.W.), was a stout
threequarter in the golden days of the Union
game. A member of the old Randwick Club,
he turned out for his State against Vic-
toria and Maoriland in 1894-95, and he fig-
ured in several official positions on the R.U.
Possibly his greatest feat was his ability to
dance a jig while standing on his head. The
man who could do that after a big football
dinner—and “Taff” did it quite often—
doesn’t roost in every tree.
# * * *
Gladesville-Ryde, by its handsome 5-to-2
defeat of Corrimal, now leads in the Metro-
politan Soccer competition. The Chinese
(Continued on page Jfl.)
THE TIN HARE.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Let the gilded few the fox pursue,
Or harry the lordly stag,
Or hustle and shoo the bounding ’roo
Atop of the straining nag.
We throb, possessed with as keen a zest
For the chase and the joys therein,
When the long dogs tear with an ardor rare
In the wake of the hare of tin.
God’s meanest thing with pain to wring
To many is sin profound,
And, though fast the fun, here pain grips
none,
Not even the distanced hound.
For how should he guess his is wasted stress
On a will-o’-the-wispy spin
And his sharp white teeth he ne’er may
sheath
In the ribs of the hare of tin?
There may be no ringing view-hallo,
No pack in stirring cry,
But the cheerful roar of the books galore
Goes up to the open sky.
“I’ll lay the field” is the slogan pealed,
And one thrills to the stirring din
As the lithe dogs shoot in their fierce pursuit
Of the game little hare of tin.
You may rave and skite of the turf’s delight
And the punter who grows elate
When the packed stand’s voice acclaims hia
choice
As leading into the straight.
But ours, be sure, is a sport more pure,
A game where the fastest win.
For no jock may spike thg gun of the tyke
Who chases the hare of tin.
N.B.W.
IFORD.


Simplified
7 o the Sophisticated Golfer —
Mick Simmons offer a service complete and
in its highest form.
Mr. ill Corry, Mick Simmons Golf Professional, is recognised as one
of Sydney’s leading exponents of the game. He is ever at the service
of the aspiring tyro in the selection of suitable Clubs, etc. With a
practical knowledge at his command Mr. Corry is naturally “au fait”
in every phase of Golf, and to the player who has perhaps developed
a fault, his advice is quite free of charge.
PROFESSIONAL TUITION
By Mr. Will Corry
at Very Moderate Fees.
The Neu>
“WILL CORRY
Graded Irons
Every iron is so perfectly alike
in feel and balance that your
swinging and timing can be
exactly the same for every shot. The
fact that these “graded” sets of
Clubs are now being used by the
foremost amateur and professional
Golfers throughout England,
. America and Australia is convincing
proof as,to their efficaciousness. The
“Will Corry” Graded Irons are
shafted in scientifically-treated hick-
ory, with heads of finely-tempered
steel, and represent the highest stand -
ard of craftsmanship in Golf Clubs
to-day.
Priced at ... . 25/ -
‘Popular with all
Qrades of Qolfers
The “Will Corry”
Autograph Clubs
Products of the finest craftsman-
ship, they have been acclaimed
by hundreds of experienced
Golfers as the acme of perfection
in high-grade clubs. Super-
quality shafts, specially prepared
grips and hand-forged irons.
Super Brassies, 25/-
Drivers & Spoons. .
Rustless Irons . . . . 25/-
Standard Model Irons
The Finest Racket at the Price
offering in the Tennis World to-day !
The “Lightning”
THE quality, the dependability, the craftsmanship
embodied in the remarkably low-priced “Light-
ning” have quickly made it perhaps the most
widely-sold Racket in Australia to-day. Constructed
from specially-selected materials, it is a Racket that
will stand up to the hardest usage. The Frame is of
English Ash, with concave throat and specially rein-
forced shoulders; strung with dependable English Gut
45/-
Priced at
Ahe “Lightning” Frame carries a full Six
(6) Months’ Guarantee.
Exclusively distributed by Mick Simmons.
Daily Tennis Tuition at Headquarters.
Connected with Mick Simmons’ Tennis Department is an “A” Grade Tennis Player
whose services as an Instructor may be availed of at any hour of the day. Whilst
|. i ro ls quic y taught the rudiments of Tennis, the player who perhaps has had a
e experience and now aspires to greater things is carefully coached in the finer
pons an scientific side of the Game. The full-size Tennis Court on the Roof
por s roun uplicates natural conditions of play, and seclusion from the curious
eyes or onlookers is ensured.
. PEES ARE MOST REASONABLE.
SPECIAL TENNIS AND GOLF CATALOGUES ARE POST FREE ON REQUEST.
(Carriage Paid on Golf and Tennis Material.)
fg
dfg
1C
iininons.
“The World*s Greatest Sports Store ,**
Headquarters: 720 HAYMARKET, SYDNEY.
Branches: City, Suburbs, Newcastle, Brisbane.


SS
c<s
i
ITadltury’s
<dairV JUILK"
CHOCOLATE
Wholesome nut bars, scrumptious plain bars or the new Neapoli-
tan dainty and convenient tablets packed in carton. Try G. D. M
Chocolate to-day made every day from Fresh Dairy Milk.
27-11.
SMOKE
EDGEWORTH
* TOBACCO
Australian Agents: R. TOWNS & CO., SYDNEY.
team drew, 1-1, with “Australia” (all N.S.W.
players) at Newcastle in what the promoters
were pleased to call “the third Test.”
❖ * =•: ❖
The Tie. League match that attracted
most attention on Saturday concerned Mel-
bourne and South Melbourne. Melbourne’s
team was, on paper, even weaker than the
side that crashed the previous Saturday be-
fore the Richmond Tigers, and the betting
favored South, but the Red Legs set off w T ith
a vim, playing breezy, open ’ball, and at
half-time owned 80 points to South’s 19.
Latter made a little better showing after-
wards, but the end was: Melb., 149 points ;
South, 71. That definitely ended South's
premiership hopes, and the only problem
now is whether Carlton or Melb. will squeeze
into “the four” alongside Geelong, Rich-
mond and Collingwood. Plus deadheads,
24,785 persons viewed the rout, parting
£639 19s. 3d. to do so. Carlton, after hold-
ing Fitzroy comfortably, tired visibly in the
last quarter and was lucky to get home with
76 points to ’Roy’s 70. Geelong also had to
shift itself in order to save the bacon, ulti-
mately doing so with 79 points to Foot-
scray’s 60. ’Wood downed Hawthorn with
121 points to 47; and Richmond despatched
St. Kilda with 110 to 71. Also Essendon
achieved its fourth victory by outing North
Melbourne in much the same way as a Scot
jokes, by 54 points to North’s 50.
“Hotham”: Sydney is in for a treat on
August 13, when Geelong and Carlton will
play an exhibition match on the Cricket
Ground. The visit of the two crack sides
will give Sydneyites a chance to see the fine
game at its best, a height which isn’t
reached in N.S.W., where the Rugby codes
and Soccer have gripned the popular fol-
lowing. Rugby Unionists will find a special
interest in the match because Cliff Rankin
will strip for Geelong. Though lip had never
seen a game of Rugby till he went to France,
Cliff was the full back of the A.I.F. XV,
probably the best side Australia ever put, in
the field, and was considered by British
critics an absolute topnotclier in the position.
M.Q. (and Rafferty) Rules
To the delight of the Sydney Stadium
people, wdto have been worried about the
tin-liare boom, Johnnie Squires (12st. Bflb.)
and Jim Williams (12st. 51b.) drew a very
large crowd on Saturday night. The tall
Afrikander is a fine specimen of young
manhood, but going on his form against
the coon it is hard to understand how
lie beat George Cook twice. Perhaps ho
fought too soon after his sea voyage; he
was certainly loose and flabby about the
waist and loins. Williams continually
fooled the young Boer; he would swing a
wicked one, and, hit or miss, dive under
and come up in the most unexpected local-
ity. He spoilt the spectacular side by
hanging on, but saved himself a lot of
punishment tlrereby; and as the rounds
went on Squires repeatedly offended in the
same way. As early as the fourth round
Squires’s left cheek and eye were swelling,
and before the end of the fifth, a bitter
round for him, lie bled at both nose and
mouth. Williams was hooted in the sixth,
and cautioned in the seventh, for “keeping
’em down.” In the eighth a short upper-
cut sent his teeth into his tongue and he
spat gouts of gore. By the end of the
tenth, which Williams won by a wide mar-
gin, Squires’s face was all out of shape,
but, judging by the head punches he sur-
vived during the last four rounds, he must
have as thick a skull as any negro. Referee
Wallis declared it a draw, and those who
had laid 5 to 4 on Squires went away
gratified.
* * * *
“Mitt”: Mr. Jack Dempsey, ex-champion
of the world, and Mr. Jack Sharkey, an over-
confident aspirant to the title, met in a New
York ring last week to translate their conver-
sational exchanges into terms of legalised
stoush. Dempsey knocked the other skiter out
iu the seventh round with a left hook to the
jaw. Sharkey’s admirers claim that their
boastful idol was repeatedly fouled and took
delivery of the deciding punch when he was
off his guard, appealing to the referee. One
of the judges supports • Sharkey’s version;
the camera, which “can’t lie,” leaves the
point obscure. In any case, the beaten blow-
hard should have known better than to “wait
for the whistle.” A few weeks’ experience
of Sydney Rugby League would have cured
him of that.
* * *
In his third contest at Los Angeles Billy
Grime knocked skin and hair off Stewart
McLean, a first-class American feather-
weight, winning each of the 10 rounds
fought. He had McLean down in the first
round and “out on his feet ’ in the eighth.
It is curious to read that “Grime_s style of
fighting, which is without a parallel m the
U S ring, drew continuous applause from
the large crowd,” for the lad’s style never
pleased many alleged authorities in Syd-
ney; it was because of this that he had
to go to Melbourne in search of dates.. He
is now recognised in the Dry Republic as
“a dangerous contender for the champion-
ship,” which “Red” Chapman and “Honey-
boy” Finnegan claim.
“Maunga”: A contributor suggests (B,
23/6/’27) that Billy Grime “must have been
having a little game” when he met Tommy
Fairhall and Charlie Purdy. Well, a betting
man put it to Grime at Wellington (M.L.),
prior to William’s fight with Purdy, that
he should “carry” the Maorilander, the bet-
tor having backed Purdy to stay the dis-
tance ; and met with a stern refusal. Purdy
can’t punch a cup out of a saucer, but he
is hard to land on. He has had over a
hundred fights and has never been knocked
out.
* :!: * *
“Tenakohe”: Few boxers are as wise as
Pat Bradley, the Irish-American who fought
many good battles in Sydney before the war.
Pat was one of those terrific swipers who
accept punishment as the penalty of their
determination to get within range for their
heavy artillery. He was, to all intents and
purposes, as dangerous as ever, with good
prospects of gathering a lot more money,
when he quietly subsided into private life.
“I knew when to knock off,” Pat says. “I’ve
seen too many of those tough fellows who
take everything to get home their wallop
knocking about the streets of ’Frisco, broke
to the wide and silly. I preferred to stop
while my old nut was still sound inside.’
Pat is nowadays a fireman on the Ventura.
Melbourne Sta-
dium was crammed
to such an extent
on Saturday night
that there was
scarcely room for
Tliye and Edwards
to make their way
into the ring. Thye
was favorite at 4
to 1 on. Edwards
began more deco-
rously than usual
and when he re-
sorted to rough
work he was met
with an elbow
under the chin or a
shoulder in the
face. Ted was even
more effective with
a figure-four scis-
sors on the head,
and combining with
this a painful arm-
bar half-way
through the second
round lie forced
Edwards to submit.
In the following
round Bill got
Edw a r d in the
“splits,” but the
latter wristlocked
his way out of this
and many oth e r
holds. Wrestling at
a terrific pace, he
was apparently out-
classing the Cau-
adian, when a
change came in the
fifth round; Wil-
liam connected with
his knuckle-grinding
headlock and Thye
was easily pinned.
Bill lost no time in
the sixth, and Ted
grabbed a toe for
temporary respite.
D e s p i t e repeated
warnings from the referee, Bill continued to
grind his knuckle over the eye, and after a
trip into the press seats he jumped into the
fray before the “wrestle on” signal was
given. Grabbing Ted’s head as soon as it
appeared, he knuckled it with great fervor,
the while Bridges ordered him to let go. When
that little fellow finally dragged the wild
Canadian off he awarded the bout to Thye on
a foul. Bill was indignant, but his disquali-
fication was long overdue. Thye, 32st. Sib.;
Edwards, 12st. 61b.
The Nineteenth Hole
The amateur golf championship of South
Aus. has been won at Seaton by T. S.
Clieadle; he defeated Legh Winser by 7 up
and 6 to play. A remarkable performance
for a veteran who was State title-holder in
1903. * *
* * * *
The £lOOO professional golf tourney at
Gleneagles was won by E. R. Whiteombe,
who accounted for Ray in the final by 1
and 8. Most of the American and British
professionals who had figured in the open
championship entered for the rich prize, in-
cluding Australia’s own .T. H. Kirkwood.
Joe, however, pulled out after he had quali-
fied for the match rounds with 147 —a tie
with the ultimate winner—owing to an
appointment to appear in an exhibition
game. This turned out to be a four-ball
match for charity; Joe and Bobby Jones
beat Tolley and Wethered by a hole.
* * * *
“Consule Planco”: A cable told us the
other day that Michael Scott, “once well
known in Australia,” had won the French
amateur championship. Scott, whose habitat
was in Victoria in those days, picked up the
Australian open championship in Sydney as
long ago as 1904. He was deposed by D. G.
Soutar the following year, but won it again
in 1907. This isn’t the old ’un’s first go at
the French title either, for he gathered it in
two years before the war.
* * * *
“Alwyn”: Re “N.H.’s” query concerning
the venue of Australia’s first golf club (B.
14/7/’27), the earliest recorded game in
Sydney was played in 1855 on links laid
out between Homebusli and Concord. John
Dunsmore, a lawyer of the period, is credited
with being the Ole Pioneer of the pastime;
some of the sticks and balls he imported
from Scotland have been preserved by the
Australian club, and are shown with due
reverence to Distinguished Visitors to Ken-
sington. There is a tradition that golf was
played in Victoria as far back as 3847, but
no details are extant.
* =;= * *
“Divot Digger”: An 18-hole and a 9-hole
course are provided for in the plans of the
Elanora country club, to be established on
the heights above Narrabeen Lakes, and it
has been decided to go ahead with the clear-
ing of 200 acres. This is good news for the
COMPENSATION.
O’BROWN: “I don’t think we’re going to land anything here.”
MCJONES: “Never mind ; we’ve thought out some wunnerful
excuses.”
hundreds on the waiting-lists of Sydney clubs
as well as for golfers generally. Sydney
needs more courses, and the country-club idea
is attractive, provided the thing is run on
the right lines and is within easy distance of
the city. The men behind the move are well-
known golfer's—-AV. A. XTeeman, JLric Gamp-
bell and T. A. J. Playfair (Rose Bay), and
j. Crockett (Killara, T.eura and other clubs).
The scheme admits of the club controlling
its own affairs, and D. G. Soutar has re-
ported upon the site as being ideal as regards
both soil and situation.
* * * *
“A Slicer” : I played a short approach on
to a green and saw the ball run and stop
near the pin. As we drew closer the pill
suddenly rolled seven or eight inches away
from the hole, for no apparent reason. We
discovered it had pulled up against a small
lizard having a siesta ; the tardy decision ot
the tiny beast to look for a better ole das-
lodged the ball and set it running again. My
partner was McMadder the art critic. W hat
he touches he adorns, and tliose i of you who
know him have no need to read the rest ol
this par. At the 19th hole he was telling
the boys “ —and there was the ball balanced
on tin; little brute's back as it crawled off.”
I have seen the story grow m splendor. lne
latest version to date is that a large goanna
rushed out from the bushes and swallowed
the ball under the impression that it was an
* ***
“Ploughman”: The marvel about “Bobby ,
Jones’s “distance” from the tee —he “shot
one of 400 yards the other day—is not only
the length he gets, but his avoidance of the
least tendency to pull or slice as do so many
very long hitters. In the British open cham-
pionship his drives, right through, are said
to have averaged 275 yards. Some years
ago an English journal gave a 100-guinea cup
annually for long driving, and kept it up tor
five years. There was always a big entry or
the best during that time, but the longest
individual drive was 290yds. lOin. That w y as
only last year, and the American marvels
feat gains all the more in comparison.
Racquet and Bawl
“Cash Amateur”: We are fairly familiar
in Australia with the pampered tennis per-
son who ignores umpires’ decisions, afld even
corrects them by deliberately losing a stroke
when the umpire has given a verdict of
which he does not approve. News from
Europe indicates that Tilden was permitted
to go the limit in his indulgence in these'
superiority antics while playing in Paris just
before the Wimbledon meeung. lie is quoted
as “repeatedly objecting to the decisions of
judges in the tournament.” That is nothing
new with Tilden or his imitators in this
country, who, while failing to rise to any-
uun.. luse his form as tennis libbers, sedu-
lously copy his idiosyncracies. There is a
golden rule, once observed in all games, that
Ihe umpire’s decision shall be final. In
cricket it still stands, subject to revision by
more or less well-informed press comment.
It has long vanished from professional toot-
hall, and in semi-professional tennis is
already a subject for derisive laughter.
* * =:■• *
“Cut Shot”: The N.SAV, liard-courts
championships, concluded last week at
Dubbo, served to emphasise the rapid im-
provement of young Ilarry Hopmaii who,
with his pal Crawford, promises to become a
Davis Cup star in the near future. Meeting
the best of Australia’s players in the Western
N.S.W. tournaments during the past few
week - ends, Ilopman scored wins against
Patterson, Crawford, Schlesinger and Cum-
mings, winding up by taking the State hard-
courts singles and the doubles, with Craw-
ford. The latter, who has been off his game
somewhat, succumbed rather easily to Cum-
mings in the singles at Dubbo. He has
played a tremendous amount of tennis the
last 12 months and is doubtless a bit stale.
* * * *
“Cut Shot”: France made short work cf
Denmark in the closing European tussle for
the Davis Cup, and thus qualifies to meet
America in the challenge round. Cocliet and
Borotra accounted for Ulrich and Petersen
respectively in the singles, the latter running
the Basque to four sets —0-8, 6-2, 6-1, 6-0.
In the doubles Borotra and Brugnon polished
off the Danish pair in straight sets: 6-0, 6-4,
6-o.
Car and Cycle
“Chevroford”: Motor-cyclists were out the
other day looking for the worst bit of road
in Vic. They wanted it for a trial of the
new six-wheeled truck which the British
Imperial Oil people are interested in for
getting their stuff in bulk about the country.
The awful example was found near King-
lake. First a variety of four-wheeled cars
were put at it and got hopelessly stuck m
the middle. Then the six-wlieeler glided
gracefully across it, to return and haul out.
the others. The promoters were well pleased
with the test. The double pair of driving
wheels at the rear are so arranged on separ-
ate axles that one of them is always on the
ground, even if the road resembles a devas-
tated area on the Somme.
•i, # * *
“Ausgang”: Australia’s old friend Fritz
is always improving on other people’s ideas.
Sandboxes of a type resembling those used
on railway engines to prevent slipping and
“skid” are nowadays fairly familiar features
of heavy traction and transport motor
vehicles. The trouble with the road, as with
the rail, vehicle is to get a satisfactory
“feed,” especially in wet weather, when the
damp sand often refuses to run. The new
German device, known as “adliastalor,” con-
sists of a branch from the exhaust pipe to
the sand-boxes on each side. If slipping is
feared, a touch on a lever causes the
exhaust gases to squirt sand in front of the
tyres. In the case of: skidding, the exhaust
diverting-valve can be connected with the
brake pedal or lever, and comes into action
as the brakes are jambed on.
(Continued on page Jf2.)


Q&arifo
lIQUEIIB
The Whisky for Connoisseurs.
GRANT’S
LIQUEUR
SCOTCH WHISKY.
Beautifully Clean, Soft and Mellow.
The Royal Agricultural Society of Victoria.
Grand Annual Exhibition
NINE DAYS:
Thursday 15th to Saturday 24th September, 1927.
COMPREHENSIVE DISPLAY OF STOCK, AGRICULTURAL PRODUCE
AND INDUSTRIAL EXHIBITS.
SIXTY ACRES OF INTENSE INTEREST.
Liberal Programme of Prizes Amounting to Over £BOOO.
(Including Champion Prizes of Australia.)
Competitive Entries (except Ring Events) close Saturday at Noon, August 13.
Entries for Arena Events close Saturday at Noon, August 27.
Members’ Subscription, covering Badge and Two Ladies Tickets and General
Privileges, £l/10/- per annum.
Life Members’ Subscription, £l5/15/-. Extra Ladies’ Tickets, 10/6 each.
PRIZE SCHEDULES, ENTRY FORMS, ETC., ON APPLICATION.
HENRY SCHWIEGER, Secretary.
Note Address:— TEMPLE COURT (9tli Floor), 422 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE.
Car and Cycle
“Der Jong" : The longest motor-cycle road
race in the world is run annually from
Durban to Johannesburg, 403 miles inland.
Jo’burg stands 6000 feet above the sea on
the great plateau of the High Veld, and the
8000ft. range of the Drakensburg cuts across
the track, so the spin is a fair test of a motor-
cycle from all points of view. This year’s
race was won on a Douglas in 34 hours
30sec. by one Percy Flook. Percy’s sug-
gestive name does not apply to the success
of his British machine, for Douglas riders
have been first on five occasions.
“Blue”: Motor-cycling has several vari-
eties of champions, including broad-track,
cement-track, grass-track and dirt-track
stars. Performances vary greatly, the only
resemblance noticeable being the frequency
with which riders and machines become casu-
alties. The dirt king rarely invades the
domain of the grass potentate, and both
seem to avoid the arena of the cement-and-
broad-tnack emperors. There must be some-
thing in the game, for quite a lot of young
gentlemen seem to follow it all over Aus-
tralia, and motor-cycle salesmen, however
philanthropic, can’t find all the money. Most
of this appears to come from a public which
is not so much interested in record times or
makes of cycle as in the possibility of a
thrilling smash.
:j: :[i :j: ❖
“Coorparoo” : That list of motor-cycle acci-
dents on a Brisbane speedway ( It. 21/7/'27)
did not include the most impressive details.
One journal, describing the incident in which
a cycle went through the fence and a row
of trees into a creek, adds some important
facts not given by your correspondent:
“The cycle, travelling at over 50 m.p.h.,
struck a mound. Shooting up in the air from
tin's take-o(T, it carried away a post and rail
of the fence immediately behind the mound
and went upwards and onwards. Brushing
the tops of the 20ft. mangrove trees which
lined the creek bank, the cycle cleared
the mud-banks on the near side of the creek
and landed in Sft. of water near the farther
bank. From the point at which it took off
from the track to where it entered the. creek,
it travelled 00ft.” Beat that if you can,
you Sydneyside coves!
* * * *
“Teamster”: Tell “Toddy” (B. 14/7/’27)
that the six-wheeler has arrived in Queens-
land. For some months a six-wheeled truck
having two separate propeller shafts and
differentials operated from the one gearbox
has been plying daily between Brisbane and
Toowoomba, about 80 miles. It carries big
loads, is practically bogproof and is a splen-
did puller when negotiating the steep toll-
bar road and other pinches.
Miscellaneous
Jack Lyons, one of the greatest hitting
batsmen Australia has produced, is dead in
Adelaide at 64. Whether the big South Aus-
tralian was as hard a driver as Percy Mc-
Donnell, who predeceased him long ago,
is debatable, but he was certainly high on
that list of hard-punching Australian bats-
men which began with Massie and ended
with Jack Worrall. Lyons’s best Test-
match score was 134, made on Sydney
Cricket Ground against Lord Slieffeld’s XI
in 1892. Ills average for 27 Test innings
was 27.07 ; in his time bowlers were better
and wickets less perfect than they are to-
day. Like Worrall, he matured late as a
batsman, going to England a couple of times
before he became a star hitter. Few think
of him as a bowler, but he was more than
a useful change. Ilis best year in England
with the ball was 1890, when he took 43
wickets at a cost of 23 runs each ; lie bowled
311 overs, 113 of which were maidens.
* * * *
“FY7”: The visit of Oldfield's eleven to
Malaya has drawn attention to the fact that
the wicket at Singapore is composed of Bulb
(N.S.W.) soil. It gives one to wonder how
far Bulli soil and Merri Creek (Vic.) “glue”
—for that’s just what it was in a wet and
drying wicket —have wandered. II. L. Col-
lins told us last year, when he returned via
Canada, that British Columbia was import-
ing Bulli soil for Vancouver wickets. In
the lS90’s, when Brisbane Cricket Ground
was formed, schooner-loads of stuff from
Bulli and Merri Creek were brought up and
laid down as sep: rate wickets —steam trans-
port, even in those days, was too expensive.
The result was that teams playing on the
ground might find themselves on an entirely
different type of pitch in alternate matches.
* * * *
“G-r-r-h”: The feud between the Aus-
tralian Board of Control and the N.S.W.
Cricket Association over the proposed visit
of an Indian eleven still bubbles hot. N.S.W.
spoke out of its turn by starting negotia-
tions with the Calcutta club, and asking the
Board’s permission afterwards. It made an
additional “bloomer” by remarking inferen-
tially that if the Board wasn’t game to face
the music N.S.W. would see it through. The
Board's reply was to the effect that N.S.W.
should mind its own business. Now the
Calcutta club has written to the Board, and
that body has intimated that it doesn’t meet
again till Sept. 27 and couldn’t possibly deal
witli the application till that date. This
attitude was described by the N.S.W. Asso-
ciation at its last meeting as discourteous,
and discourteous it is.
“Auld Scotch”: Xavier College has not
shared hcad-of-the-river honors in any year
(B. 14/7/’27). In 1919 it certainly dead-
heated with Scotch College, but when they
rowed it off Scotch won by a couple of feet.
“Swivel”: The forty-ninth annual report
of the N.S.W. Rowing Association tells of
a “marked increase” in the number of en-
tries and competitors as compared with the
previous season. .Tust 208 crews, compris-
ing 918 oarsmen, contested the various events
—an increase of 38 and 72 respectively on
the figures of last year. Although it isn’t
mentioned in the report, this activity was
confined to Sydney clubs alone. In spite
of its splendid river system, N.S.W. is un-
able to produce a single country club to take
part in any of the recognised rowing regattas.
It is the only Australian State which occu-
pies this bad eminence.
:i: * *
“Torn Quad”: There is some interest for
Australian oarsmen in the cabled announce-
ment that the race for the Wingfield Sculls,
which carries the amateur championship of
Britain, has been won by T. D. A. Collett,
of Leandcr. Collett was invited by the Ilen-
ley-on-Yarra committee to come across this
year and show his form against our best in
the single shells. His reply was that he
would wait and see till he had confirmed his
sculling form in England. The winning of
the Wingfield should settle this, and since
that great Australian rowing enthusiast
Steve Fairbairn solidly recommends the
young oarsman, it seems a certainty that we
shall see him in action next October.
“Shell”: When the Australian Rowing
Council decided to hold an inter-State scull-
ing race on the Yarra to enable the council’s
selector, Cecil McVilly, to choose a man for
the Olympic sculls at Amsterdam, N.S.W. re-
fused to agree. The stand' taken was that
Pearce, the N.S.W. representative, had
“proved himself the best amateur sculler in
Australia” and should be selected forthwith.
A unanimous agreement is not necessary,
and the council will proceed with the inter-
state test. If the Sydney people don’t like
that the inference is that they can lump it.
The best way out of the impasse' would be
for Pearce to compete in Melbourne oh his
KEN AUSTIN, secretary of the N.S.W.
Polo Association and an unsurpassed
judge of a polo pony.
own account. The N.S.W. body might re-
fuse him official endorsement, but the A.R.C.
is hardly likely to worry about that.
❖ ❖ ❖ :\z
“Pish”: An American journal has been
giving some details of child wonders and
their swimming feats which sickeningly re-
call the ravings of certain of our own publi-
cations on the same subject. The Yankee
list includes six infants, ranging from 14 to
11 years old, who have swum some distance
or other in a fashion calculated to amaze the
dreary chroniclers of such feats. The per-
TOMMY HOWARD, one of the greatest
professional golfers Australia has pro-
duced. He recently added the Queens-
land open championship to his long
list of triumphs.
formances of British and European prodigies
are also cited, all being in the flapper and
flapperette stage. We ourselves will hear the
same pitiful tale when spring comes round
with the warm water. Then Baby Binks
will break the 100 yds. record for mites
under six weeks old, and Barbara Blithers
will cover half a mile in only two hours
more than Arne Borg’s latest record of the
day before yesterday. Yah !
* * *
“Splash”: The craze for importing over-
seas athletes for exhibition tours is taking
hold of amateur institutions which are sup-
posed to harbor a soul above “gates.” The
Vic. Swimming Association has asked the
Australian S. Union to import two European
champions, Frelicli . and Rademacher, next
season; if the union doesn’t feel up to it
the Victorians undertake to tackle the job
themselves. Such visits are supposed to have
a stimulating effect on local talent, but this
is doubtful, though it may seem heresy to
say so. Certainly the influx of foreign cham-
pions during the last eight or nine years has
been followed by no improvement in the
Australian standard of swimming, if Charl-
ton be excepted—and Charlton had nothing
to learn from Harris or Borg. Profits from
the tours are supposed to be of assistance
in developing young swimmers, but the
truth is that the margin of profit on the
average imported swimming team’s tour is
slender. Not flying visits from Europeans,
Americans or Orientals but expert instruc-
tors such as they have in the U.S.A. are
what: our young swimmers need. Australian
swimming executives are leaving the young-
sters to learn the game the best way they
can.
The Champion Cup at Rooty Hill
(N.S.W.) last week went to Parnell’s Andy.
This greyhound has started in five stakes
this season and won four of them; in the
odd one (the N.S.W. Waterloo Cup) he was
outworked by a dog that almost certainly
would not have reached the hare if bustling
Andy hadn’t turned it. .T. E. Cook brought
a good one in Corinthia from Newcastle and
annexed the Ladies’ Bracelet.
M. ,T. Mackenzie, of Western Suburbs,
retained his title of cross-country champion
of N.S.W. at Randwick racecourse on
Saturday by winning the 10,000-metre event
in 34min. 58sec., after a rare finish; R.
Wright, of St. George, was only a second
away. A. Gainsford, also of St. George,
was third, in 35min. 7sec. The race used to
he a five-mile affair; this year it was run
over the Olympic distance in order to pro-
vide a preliminary test for- athletes who
aspire to go to Amsterdam. St. George was
the successful team.
Business, Robbery, etc.
“Prickly Jack”: I can mention one larger
windmill than the 29-footer at Warrion, Vic.
(B. 7/7/’27). The Trans-Australiai. rail-
way has a 30ft. Comet windmill at Raw-
linna; it can be seen from the window of
the train.
* * * *
“Machete” : The Queensland Railway De-
partment is building rail-motors according to
its own notions at Ipswich workshops. Re-
cently one of these, carrying 40 passengers,
ran 1043 miles from Brisbane to Cairns
without trouble of any kind. Hopes run
high for the success of the new departure.
v v -i* V
“Kai” : Regarding the Canadian lumberman
(B. 16/6/’27). During the European un-
pleasantness there was a contest in La Motte
Forest, near Hazebrouck, between six Maori
buslimen and six Canadians, 14in. blocks
being used, it was a walk-over. The last
Maori to finish had put on his tunic and lit
a cigarette before the first Canadian had
knocked his block down.
* * :!: *
“Titun” : The co-op. society in Wonthaggi
(Vic.) is doing fine. Our last three rebates
on purchases have been 3s. in the £. The
society deals in groceries, ironmongery,
drapery, bread, meat, milk, greengroceries,
boot-repairing, tailoring and taxis. Chooin
miners—we’ve got a lot of ’em —look on
“t’ co-op” as a kind of savings bank. They
leave their rebates in the business till there’s
a strike.
* * * *
“Specky”: Prohibition of imports is a
dodge dear to the heart of Uncle Sam. Latest
instance is a perfectly good shipment of
Ohanez grapes from South Aus. Sam’s Agri-
cultural Department inspectors couldn’t find
anything wrong with them- —fruit fly, rin-
derpest or smallpox—but said that the ship-
ment couldn’t get past the Statue of Liberty
except over their dead bodies. A .trial lot
of Tassie apples met the same fate a few
years ago. Two can play at that game —
what about stopping 20 million feet of Holly-
wood films?
* * *
“C.Q.”: A world without shadows would
be as uninteresting as one without beer, but
there is one place where shadowless light is a
boon—the surgical operating-theatre. Mel-
bourne Hospital is experimenting with the
only shadowless lamp in Victoria. It is 1700
candle-power and gives out neither heat nor
glare. A dioptic lens is centred in a big
mirrored cone and the light flows round
every angle of the person who is being
carved, saving medical students from eye-
strain and the surgeons from slips. The
scialytic is the name of the new lamp.
* * * *
“Bert”: Have just finished off a six-
roomed suburban bungalow which, instead
of being floored with the usual knotty Baltic
pine, had good, hard, well-seasoned jarrali.
In place of flimsy redwood fittings all the
doors, skirtings and architraves were of Tas.
blackwood. A French-polisher put a mirror-
like surface on the vertical wood, and after
the floors had been smoothed down with the
sanding-macliine and oiled and waxed the
interior of that house was beautiful, The
extra cost was £7O for timber. £lO for the
polisher, £lO for cleaning off the floors and
£l2 for two carpenters.
* * *
“Non ViCi”: “Gregor” (B. 30/6/’27)
hasn’t counted the cost of setting up an
Australian aniline-dye industry. Production
must be very large to offset the considerable
time spent in manufacture; incidentally,
many small dye firms which sprang up in
England during the war went phut. The
constant changes in fashionable shades have
made the dyer’s life anything but a bed of
roses. He insists on the dye manufacturer
giving him a considerable range of shades, so
an Australian co. would have to manufac-
ture scores of dyes for which there would
be little or no immediate sale. Again, no
firm here manufactures all the chemicals
needed, and many of these would have to
be imported. Before we can have a dye
industry we must have more woollen, cotton
and silk mills, and other industries consum-
ing dyes.
* * * *
“Simon” : The leather trade marches with
the times and manages to stave off sub-
stitutes. Whereas at one time all leather
was sold natural color, and about the only
embellishing done was the imitation of hog-
skin marking on saddle-flaps to match the
real hogskin seat, leather is now embossed
with all manner of grains and designs, imi-
tating every sort of skin known to science,
from seals to snakes. The machine that
splits a basil into four sheets has enabled a
little to go a long way, and the measuring
machine, which records the area of irregu-
lar shapes and enables leather to be sold
at per super foot instead of by the pound,
has removed some of the temptations of
the tanner. He doesn’t need to load the
stuff with barium to increase its weight,
for one thing.


REMARKABLE RECORD OF SUCCESSFUL FEEDING
AT THE RECENT N.S.W. SHEEP SHOW
Grand Champions All!!! —Fed on MEGGITT’S LINSEED SHEEP NUTS
§ l
« !
§ ;
§ !
§
&
Exhibited by the Estate of I'.
Bundemar, N.S.W.
E. Body,
<§'. s’*
mtomu
IPST
J.f+
s vS\> v
.V-' •■
v $N£;$*> i P
GRAND
CHAMPION
MERINO
RAM.
GRAND
CHAMPION
MERINO
EWE.
d
Kxliibited l».v < Mills (I’anlry), Lt<l.
Huy., N.B.AV.
GRAND CHAMPION CORRIEDALE
RAM.
* ‘^•is/ 'v '&&r* v **$$%'*^&?»h
Exhibited
y Mr, T. Bowline. Stone
uenge.
GRAND CHAMPION COR HIK DACE
EWE.
'•<•:; •:>■■•; •< >,
- ' „‘
•-• - id
'V
m
:
Exhibited by Senator J.
liulgamlra.
G RANI>
CHAMPION BOBBER
LEICESTER RAM.
WSmm
■ ■
■Hi
Exhibited h.v Air. W. Wheatley,
Goulburn.
OKAND CHAMPION UOBDEK
LEICESTER EWE.
y
Exhibited hj Mr. A. Iv. Butter, Xraiifsie
(J HAND CHAMPION ROMNEY MARSH
RAM.
fg
df
Exhibited by Mr. VV. It. Giasson,
Molong.
GRAND CHAMPION ROMNEY MARSH
EWE.
r
.
.exhibited .by Mr. A. If. Cary, tioulburn.
(JRAND CHAMPION LINCOLN RAM.
■
I I
| m
1 H
Exhibited by Mr. ». Phillips, Marnlan.
(. KAM) CHAMPION LINCOLN EWE.
i; %"■
■U ' H 1 ■
;
’ »*■ "i v Pf«*g#
r> &* ” " "'' 'm
m
Exhibited by Mr. ». TMiillips, Mar ill ail.
DAVID OF DALKEITH: RECORD-PRICED RAM.
This magnificent ram was
bred by Mr. F. D. McMaster,
of Dalkeith, and sold to F. S.
Falkiner and Sons, for the
record sum of 5000 guineas.
k
W'o ~^
:;# :■
# '
b K^/MMmt
W
x'vkk>
k
>NWXN\ > v X.
$
•■■■'w"' '^',\ s 'aV“•••';: \ v
I ::::Sx?^r;v:>? iBy.V. \ j
§§f
rill
> s \\^v-
w
;\§S2K
V-'vNSn
Ik «
- - v\\\\W\A
\
Qk C|kk^
X.'v' ; .
\
'>X
o'^S
■\
Ri
«?kk
$ «V\ *s*
SSV
kl f» k kv ** "
S
X x\\
f^'\
C# 1 L*»
kkl
1 k
s'" uxV\'}' N » > ;V >J ""' S
t |
r:;:::7 w I _ _
X x \ xxnwv ,x\wv^vn\\ Vx '''l
S\ s .... «~s>f v .>
c ."'' ••••...
/ -••'• : . : *"X #'^Tkkkkk
I fliXsVn v i
The ram David, bred by Mr.
McMaster, was sired by F. 2,
a Boonoke ram, purchased by
Dalkeith for 1600 guineas.
THE WORLD’S BEST FOOD FOR
THE WORLD’S BEST SHEEP
ORDERS ARE NOW BEING BOOKED
FOR SEPTEMBER DELIVERY.
MEGGITT LIMITED.
WORKS: PARRAMATTA, MELBOURNE, ADELAIDE.
HEAD OFFICE: 26 KING STREET, SYDNEY.
NSW.: Meggitt, Limited, 20 King Street, Sydney. VICTORIA: Meggitt, Limited, Box
4510 G.P.0., Spencer Street, Melbourne. SOUTH AUSTRALIA: Elder Smith and ~
Ltd Box 387 G.P.0., Adelaide. WEST-AUSTRALIA: Wm. Adams and Go., oa King
Street Perth. QUEENSLAND: Denham’s, Limited, Brisbane ; Denham Bros., Ltd.,
Rockhampton; Cummins and Campbell, Ltd., Cairns and Townsville.


Under
Royal
Warrant
Vintage 1917.
CHAMPAGNE
nni
Australasian Agents—
Swift & Company Limited
SYDNEY.
To H.M.
Kino
George V
champacns
'^arksllcidsiecfc
Reims
iXttjH, U I D ,ue>***
OJ$
PELLISSO N
Cognac Brandy.
lo YEARS OLD.
Australasian A averts —
SWIFT & COMPANY LIMITED, Sydney.
A
.A
V'V
THE WENTWORTH
CHURCH HILL.
Sydney’s Most Noteworthy Hotel.
IN the midst of the city, but sufficiently removed
from the racket to provide ideal accommoda-
tion for the traveller in search of the perfect
hospitality.
Steam-heated in Winter. Air-cooled in Summer.
Rooms with or without Baths, or with Sitting-
rooms en suitJ.
THE DELIGHTFUL WENTWORTH CAFE
is Sydney’s most magnificent Ballroom, and the
Social Rendezvous of Smart People.
All Reservations may be made by Ringing BWIS6I.
7hp centre of Queens /onc/s
' ct/sStn£u/sheet Soc/o/ l-ife*
ifcmumB
d
Wcftel
RDTCT
BRISBANE
Magnificent B a 11-
room. Palm Court
and Lounges at the disposal of
guests and their friends at all
times.
Suites de Luxe—double and single
Bedrooms, with Bathrooms
attached. Hot and cold running
water and Electric Fans in every
Bedroom, and every modern con-
venience for the comfort of guests.
Telegrams and Cables: Lennon’s, Brisbane,
Telephone, Central 5780 —10 Lines.
A WOMAN'S
LETTER
SAY-
Kayser
SILK OR
CHAMOISETTE
GLOVES
Lady de Chair wore her longest rope of
pearls and her high-powered diamonds to
greet the royalties from Siam the other
night, Government House, too, blazed with
lights and flowers and fire-glow for the party,
at which the visitors were served with music
in the company of cohorts of Sydney’s some-
bodies in society, music and art. The Prince
and Princess Piirachatra and the Princess
Maurachatra arrived under the guidance of
the Consul for Siam, Gordon Macleod. The
Princess Purachatra was royally magnificent
in pearls and a gold-and-orange-embossed
lame tunic above a skirt of autumn-leaf
brown pleated georgette. Equally shimmery
was Lady de Chair’s lame outfit, whose sil-
ver ground was brocaded in sapphire and
ruby tones. Princess Maurachatra was slim-
ness in blue and silver lame made with a
jumper effect. Crystal-splashed green georg-
ettes enfolded the daughter of the house and
an air of cheerfulness the Viking. Between
the bursts of music men stole from the re-
ception-rooms, and through doorways deep
behind curtains found the fag of refresh-
ment. Woman meantime viewed her neigh-
bors more or less consciously calculating the
value of her apparel.
When the programme was in swing there
was room for nothing but sheer enjoyment.
Bertie Kelly’s string quartette, made up of
Henry Staell. W. T. Grieves. Bryce Carter
and the leader, imbued the Dvorak number
with charm, and Bryce Carter’s ’cello solos
and Sverjensky’s piano numbers stirred rows
of white-gloved hands to polite applause.
Peggy Dunbar, whose contralto voice sounded
like the cooing of doves wrapped in mag-
nolias and Devonshire cream, made Brahms’s
Sapphic Ode a joy. A male songbird, Wil-
frid Thomas, deserves honorable mention. The
same can be accorded Mrs. Tommy Marks,
who came with her doctor. Flesh-pink georg-
ette and pearls were eye-arresting items in
the lady’s make-up—her skirt, by the way,
was long and wore its hem uneven. The
same tone’s gentle hues whispered around
Engineer-Commander Hogan’s ladv. Colonel
and Mrs. Macarthur Onslow, she sparkling
with diamente like a green lawn under rain
rubbed shoulders witli the Mayoral Mostyns.
the civic lady adorning geranium georgettes.
The knightly Tom Hughes couple and the
Kelso Kings were among the music-bibbers.
Mrs. Rix Nicholas, like one of her own color
schemes in sea-blue and silver, was among
l lie early arrivals. Consuls were everywhere,
and it was the open season for professors—
the whole staff seemed to be taking a night
off. The Chief-Justice Street couple were
among the mighty; mrs. Boyston Davey in
impressive oyster-greys; the Braddons and
George Fullers were just a few of those who
sat in the pews in the front of the house or
on the low dowager-figured chairs in the
background.
Surely every dancing shoe in Sydney had
one night’s hard wear last week. From Mon-
day till Saturday jazz raged with enthusiasm,
and Friday night saw the Wentworth, the
Ambassadors and the Moore Park Pally
packed, while the Town Hall took another
plunge into the gay life. The Sydney Row-
ing Club brought an unusual crowd to the
Wentworth, and there the Grand Old Man of
the club, Q. L. Deloitte, now in his eighty-
fourth year, with a quarter-century record as
the club’s president, was amongst the night’s
most intrepid and interesting figures. Mrs.
A. W. Shadforth, the president of the ball,
is another club loyalist—she was celebrating
her tenth year as a committee-woman. The
Mayoress was the guest of honor, and
brought blue and silver raiment to match her
pink presentation posy; and newly-engaged
Shakspearean actress Alathea Solomon and
her Alan Mackenzie were among the seven
hundred.
Not to be taking an eyeful of the Polo
at Kensington on Saturday branded the Syd-
ney man or woman as either an outcast or
on the outermost social rim. But the out-
cast probably had the better of it: frankly, if
this Letter hadn’t got stockings and things
to buy it wouldn’t have deserted even a cosy
dog-fight for a wind-bitten possy on the rails
of the arena where men and ponies walloped
up and down. Even when stimulated by the
massage of coats of the new calfskin—expen-
sive furs not of the home pasture or the
home-grown bunny—spines refused to be
really snug. Strangely enough, the Prince
of Siam and his Princess wife and daughter
were among the most indifferent to the cold,
the young princess sparkling above white
Arctic fox that purred to her ears.
j i ,i i rj , ~
Vice-regals invaded the beflagged pen, the
G.-G. bringing his lady she in a cosy
cocoon of tan top-coat and fox-furs topped
by a cherry sports hat—and a small daugii-
ter. The Victorian Excellency’s lady kept
herself warm beneath a coat of glowing color
with which tlie grey-blues in her velour hat
were in total accord. Among tlie mighty in
broadcloth and squirrel walked the wife of
Priminister .Bruce, her black hat bound with
a silver ribbon—the fashion of the moment.
To Mrs. McKay of Scone, the poddy calf
had given Ins uttermost hair, and the hand-
some Titian reds and white thereof were
admired by all. Sportsmanlike were Mrs.
Ken Austin s beige suit and velour hat. And
ot course, the AUen. clan were there m force
and best-quality clothes Mrs. Jimmy Ash-
ton, one ot the week s hostesses, was among
the fur-clad Moira Brady, the Bells from
Qucensland, Margaret Osborne. and Vivian
Mancliee were among the enthusiasts A lyian
so pretty that you didn’t notice her clothes
at all. Perhaps the parking rates as much
ss. the fact that fewer teams are competing
this year accounted for the absence ot many
motahs of distinguished jib. Even when one
is pleasuring one needn t be reckless.
Carloads of polo players, barrackers and
pretty girls poured out of the greying dusk
of Kensington into tlie topaz- and ruby-lit
Palais at Moore Park on Monday afternoon,
Fifty-five of Sydney’s leading hostesses were
standing the racket: and all that was ex-
pected of the remaining hundreds was to
look pleasant, drink tea, and take their
partners for the dance. The G.-G. and
Lady Stonehaven, she top-coated and hatted
in black, were wafted in with the Anthem
early in tlie proceedings, and took tlieir
places at a long table on which wattle and
daffodils and violets smiled amiably on the
colors of the competing teams, which were
woven into the scheme of decoration. The
Siamese royalties were also at the principal
table, where the young princess supplied
color in her flame crepe de Chine with its
orange embroideries. Mrs. Ken Austin was
smart in a beige ensemble, and Mrs.
McKay’s beautiful calfskin coat again raised
the purr of admiration. The Slieldon lady
was a hostess m a paid sand-colored outfit.
Pretty Betty Wilson, looking like a Cumbrae
Stewart girl, wore dull-blue silk beneath
a terracotta coat. A red hat covered Mrs.
Pat Levy’s blonde hair, and another happy
wearer of red was Cynthia Hawkes. Doreen
Higgins, in powder blue collared in sable,
was another of the afternoon s decorations.
Tliere were slieiks m grey .tweeds with a
distinct waistline and the victors and van-
quished of the chase, many of them alas
with badly-splashed togs, to partner all.
The PRINCESS PURACHATRA and her
daughter, PRINCESS MAURACHATRA,
the former the wife of the King of Siam’s
brother. They are visiting Australia, and
were photographed last week for The
Bulletin by the Swiss Studios.
Under the fierce Kleig lights the civic
chief and his lady stood for over an hour
receiving the guests at the Lord MayoFs
ball on Thursday night. The fierce blue-
white rays beat blindingly over the vesti-
bule, where, on an island of carpet, the two
dignitaries stood, her taffetas and accessories
flaunting their green savagery in contrast
to the brilliant blue and the blood-reds in the
cloaks of the gladiators who were roaming
in and out. In the arena, shuddering, he
said, lest the lights should bore through and
disclose his darkest secrets, stood Town ’Clerk
Layton, frilled find befrogged and wigged
according to Town Hall etiquette; Off Hay, 1
with his decoration; the Mark Goslings
and the A. C. Willises. Into the all-reveal-'
ing light stepped Mrs. and Miss Sydney ; and
cunningly applied liquid powder and rouge
suddenly looked like some grimacing mask.
Legs, too, that pass muster under the kindly
old candelabra were discovered to be knock-
kneed or unbelievably nobby. Presently into
the glare came the Prince and Princess of
Siam with their daughter, of an astonishing
slimness and delicacy. Gold and orange in
a Paisley design snuggled to the young prin-
cess, and as she danced she resembled no-
thing so much as an ivory statuette. How-
ever, between dances —she had the first with
the Mayor and the second with Town Clerk
Layton—she came to earth and smoked and
powdered her nose like the rest of us. The
Princess-mother, who neither smoked nor
danced, had a necklet of diamonds as high-
powered as the Ivleig lamps, and her ankle-
length frock was palely pink like the lining
of a pensive shell and was patterned and
traced in gold.
Green of the Lorelei enwrapped Mrs. Clif
Hay. and blue and silver was Mrs, George
Fitz Patrick’s choice. George himself glowed
as chubby and pink as the babes in St. Mar-
garet’s in whose benefit the pageant was
staged. ‘ For this was not merely a ball;
it was cabaret, vaudeville, concert and page-
ant as well. Consuls were present; and a
vision in crimson robes stiff with gold embroi-
deries, her dark bob surmounted by a head-
dress of gold and blue, in which pompoms
and flowers nodded gaily, walked stately in
the group of little girls and boys who repre-
sented China. Peace in her shining white
was due at the gathering, blit hadn’t arrived
when this Letter hit a yellotv taxi for home,
Mrs. .7. C. Williamson, in moires that looked
like jacaranda silvered with moonlight, made
one of her rare appearances. Mrs. Hrig-
lnim’s pink and white complexion shone above
handsome black velvets. Mrs. Arthur
McNiven. in ivory georgettes heavy with sil-
ver sequins, presented six wliite-and-pink-
sugar debs, to the Mayoral notice. Gold
lame at its richest glittered in the raiment
of Dr. Langton’s lady, and Mrs. Vincent
McAuley’s rose and green brocades might
have been worn by Cleo herself.
The Town Hall was comfortably full and
most enthusiastic for the last Zimbalist
matinee. The intelligentsia was well repre-
sented; but Elaine de Chair, with Miss
Curnow and a party, had a monopoly of a
carpet-square in the foreground. The new
heaters installed for the ball that night were
all in readiness, but alas! not turned on.
Those who put up with Sydney Town Hall
are a Spartan race.
The Kiddies’ Hospital benefits from the
combined forces of the British Imperial Oil
Co.', Gollin and Co. and Harrison, Ramsay.
Under the name of Rri-Gol-Har they em-
barked on a sea of jazz at the Palais at
Moore Park, with results that brought a
smile to the face of secretary Clarence Moss.
Sydney’s Four Hundred danced at the
Ambassadors that the Boys’ Brigade clubs
may flourish beyond Surry Hills and Pyr-
mont. That amazing gun-runner Paul Jones
was the feature of the evening, and with , a
dash of something in the fruit-cup helped to
break up the frigid conventions even of those
whose family tree is three storeys high.
Mrs. George Walker, who introduced the old
favorite under whatever name, can be con-
gratulated, for as the old man exclaimed at
the party: “Sure I don’t know whether it’s
a wake or a wedding, but it’s a divil of a
success!” The Fairfaxes (who rather father
the B.B.) entertained a party so large that
the list would be as long as the Herald’s “In
Memoriams” on Saturdays; among the glad
young things were Muriel Dangar in lacquer-
red georgettes and Kathleen Robinson, grace-
ful in crystallised georgettes. The chairman
of the ball, F. E. Bryant, and Mrs. Bryant
paid the piper for another outsize party.
Helen and Philippa Stephen were attrac-
tions in pink and green respectively; and
Muriel Oakes in shining silver and Mrs. Nor-
man Cashman were among the active mem-
bers in the night’s success.
The doctors and staff of a big North Shore
hospital summoned their friends to the War-
ringah Hall one night last week. Everything
looked lovely. The decorations were artistic,
the orchestra foot-compelling, the girls
pretty—but the supper didn’t turn up. Some-
body had got the date mixed, and as a rueful
surgeon said: “I can’t get even a patient to
carve till to-morrow morning.”
Late Alfred Conroy’s eldest chick, Adele
Beatrice, was married last w r eek in the
chapel of “Shore” Grammar to Osborne
Devonisir M“ares. of Leura. A tiered skirt
of white georgette and crystal embroideries
were features of the pretty wedding frock,
which drew a foam of old Brussels lace in
its train. A mist of tulle, the usual orange-
buds and an armful of pink carnations fin-
ished off the picture. Bride’s sister Muriel
and Betty Reid as ’maids were pictorial in
long, tight Puritan bodices of pink taffeta
above flounced skirts of silver lace. The
bride’s mother, Mrs. G. Hedley Sullivan,
summoned the guests to her home at Bay
Road for the subsequent rejoicing,
v Two more newly-beringed maidens are
Dlive Crisp, once of Cooma, now of Sydney,
and Jean Shaw, of Roseville. The first
links up with Val Piggott, of Roseville; the
second will be Mrs. Vernon Treloar.
Vivian Maneliee. of Moree. one of. the
prettiest and most graceful girls who float
about Sydney ballrooms, lias made Dr. Ron-
ald Hunter ’the happiest man in the nor’-
west. The engagement ring is beyond price,
and the wedding will happen about the end
of the year. Vivian can do something be-
sides frivol. She spent a year nursing in
the kiddies’ hospital.
Sydney musicians away from home con-
tinue to be heard above the roar of the
world’s jungle. In the Musicians’ Maga-
zine, of Chicago, Keith Kennedy has been
writing a series of articles on Island Music
and Folk-lore and in between doing good
concert work. In London Roy Agnew is
forging ahead as a composer. His latest
song for voice and string quartet roused Cyril
Scott to such enthusiasm that he told Roy
alter the concert that he thought it one of
the loveliest things he had ever heard. In
the Monthly Musical Record for May Dr.
Eaglefield Hull devotes an article to the new
composer.
I-lere is a Dayne picture of Mrs. Geoffrey
Hughes, who s > the secretary for the Flying
Ball to take
place at the
Moore Park
Palais o n
August 16.
Mrs. Hughes
takes an ab-
sorbing inter-
est in flying in
Australia; and
her husband,
Captain Geoff-
rey Hughes,
is the presi-
dent of the
newly - formed
Aero Club,
which already
lias 400 mem-
bers. T h e
Club House
is close to
the aerodrome,
and here as
the members
play their week-end golf or tennis they are
cheered by the whirr and buzz of joy-riding
’planes in which adventurous Sydney takes
five-shilling flights. Last week-end over
150 passengers flew over the city.
Miss Constance Leplastrier drops a note
from London telling of meetings with Aus-
tralians in exile. At a gathering in Aus-
tralia House she met Paling’s old concert-
manager, H. N. Southwell, Mrs. Sinclair
Boss, Mrs. Morphew (Essie Ackland) and
Rosa Alba. Rosa’s husband, Broomfield
White, is a hard-working clergyman in the
East End —New Kent-road to be exact. When
he received his appointment he decided that
his tabernacle badly needed cleaning out and
painting. There were no funds to do it,
so he up with his sleeves and got to the
pot and the brush. Then a few helpers
came in, and a firm of decorators who had
read of the goings on dropped in and reno-
vated the altar. Essie Ackland and Rosa
are in constant demand for at-homes and
concerts.
The nuns at St. Vincent’s private hospital
say that the next time they nurse royalties
an aide must be installed. When Jo O’Keefe,
the uncrowned queen of David Jones’s, was
recovering from a recent operation, over
2000 messages in letters, wires and telephone
calls were delivered to her—not to mention
the visitors and the flowers.
The way Sydney mixes her gaieties and
her charities continues to amaze overseas
visitors. “Don’t Sydney women ever give
a dance just for hospitality’s sake?” asked
a Californian visitor the other day. - And
fibt much wonder! Private balls seein a
thing of the past—the Allens, the Knoxes
and the Sam and Tony Horderns were the
last to strive to keep the flag flying in the
family ballroom. But for various reasons —
sickness and Europe among them —even these
families have done little this last year or
two in the way of adding to the gaiety of
the nation. Government House and Admir-
alty House scarcely ever run beyond a musi-
cal or a garden party, and the public dancing
floors of the city are nearly always booked
for some worthy cause or another.
Gerald Marr Thompson, for many decades
music and art critic of the S. M. Hebald, is
a lonely-looking man these days. His wife is
sick in Jenner Hospital, and the gentle
Gerald makes a pilgrimage down the length
of Macleay-street twice daily to visit his
greatest chum—the constant companion of
his innumerable first nights.
Not many Governors have a soldier-poet
for private secretary. But such is the luck
of Sir Dudley.de Chair. That extraordinarily
nice man, General Anderson, who has written
first-class poetry for The Bulletin and
other papers, and who, in addition, has an
intimate knowledge of art, takes up his pen
daily to replv to the vice-regal correspon-
dence. Mrs. Anderson has good literary quali-
ties, too, but she is most at home in Red
Pagey art discussions.
“A.G.M.’s” note from London: —
T. E. Donne, the Maovilandev who has lately made
his home in London, has completed two books,
“Among the Maori” and “Rod Fishing in New
Zealand Waters,” which Seeley, Service and Co.
will publish in September. A keen observer with
a real sense of humor and a gift for clear expres-
sion, his books should touch the popular spot.


Appropriate Gifts for Men
§#IP
4
S;
BA 816(5.
Flat 9-carat Gold Cigarette Case,
to hold single row of cigarettes.-
3-A' x 2.1 inches.
£lO/10/-
Size:
x.A 818 S.
Pail' 9-carat Gold and Mother-
of-Pear] Studs, Pearl Centre,
Black Enamel Border. f n
Case, 48/-
MlgOT##
BA 8185.
9-carat Cold Front and
Back Collar Studs, in Case.
19/-
Pair 9-carat Gold engine-
turned Links, with J’due
Enamel Greek Key Border.
In Case, £2/18/-
Five per cent, discount
allowed for Cash.
HA 8101.
9-carat Gold Barrel
Match Box, 1 inch
diameter ; with steel
strike, £4/4/-
BA 8X80.
Pail' 15-cai'at Gold Links,
54/-
Hardy’s illustrated cata-
logue will be sent to any
address post free on request.
298-300
COLLINS ST.,
MELBOURNE
hardy
BROTHERS LTD.
( zJ7ie c Kori&& of* ijjoohiSLVC tlewefl&y
13 HUNTER STREET, SYDNEY.
And at LONDON.
H - ItS
QUEEN ST.,
BRISBANE.
Buy only this
t sy*.
RED Ticket
And Be Eligible for Prizes
Totalling £2222
In the Limbless Soldiers’ Art Union
Trusted by the people and with a reputation gained by
the conduct of our last three Art Unions, which paid
full prize money and were drawn to time, the Limbless
Soldiers will again keep faith.
The proceeds are in aid of the Provident Fund of the
Limbless Soldiers’ Association, and are invested at
interest by Trustees to provide for the old age of limbless
returned men.
Ist PRIZE, HUDSON COACH £465
2nd PRIZE, „ £465
3rd PRIZE, „ „ £465
And 870 Valuable Prizes from £275 to £5,
including Player Piano and Linen Chest.
TICKETS: 1/- BY POST 1/IJ.
6 TICKETS 6/- POST FREE.
0. BEYERS, Hon. Sec.,
19 Bligh Street, Sydney.
This Space Gener-
ously Donated by
P. & O. ROYAL
MAIL LINE,
Macdonald, Hamilton
and Co., Agents,
2J/7 George Street,
Sydney.
Great Austral No. 4 Art Union
By Permission, Attorney-General, N.S.W.
TaKe it to
Harringtons
cj >
In by 10am
S.PM
It will be a far better print if you take the film to
Harringtons. It will be a deeper, sharper print; it will
be a permanent, unfading print. (Harringtons Exclu-
sive Duplex-Permanence Process ensures that.) Leave
your films before 10 and call for them at 5 o clock;
they will be ready. No excuses; no indifferent work;
no extra charges.
If we can help or advise you in any matters relating to
photography, please tell us. Our staff is composed
entirely of experts, and it is their duty and pleasure to
assist you.
Since 1889—
the House for
GOOD Cameras
L™
Harringtons
Sell Kodaks,
Brownies and
All Kodak
Photo Supplies
“Goodwill Built on Public Confidence.
380 George Street, Sydney.
206 Collins Street, Melbourne.
10 Rundle Street, Adelaide.
93 Queen Street, Brisbane.
Also at—
Katoomba, Newcastle, Wellington (N.Z.) and
Auckland (N.Z.).
MastertDUch
MUSIC ROLLS
LATEST LIST OF NEW RELEASES
in
Popular Hits and Standard Numbers.
Fox Trots.
D. 1747 —Ain’t She Sweet?
D. 1758 —I’ve Got the Girl.
D. 1759 —-Don’t Sing Aloha When T Go.
D. 1760 —Moonbeam, Kiss Her For Me.
D. 1762 —If You See Sally.
D. 1763 —My Blue Bird.
D.l764—Here I Am.
D. 1765 —It All Depends On You.
One Steps.
D.l763—Bridget O’Flynn (Wheve’vc Ya
Been?).
D. 176 Do You Work-a, John?
(Push-a, Push-a, Push).
Waltzes.
D.1752—-The Good Bad Girl.
D. 1754 —Because I Dove You.
D. 1767 —So Blue.
D. 1770 —Honolulu Moon.
Marches.
D. 175 Conqueror.
0.1761—T0p of the World.
Ballads.
D 1744 —Love, Here is lily Heart. Key
of E Flat.
D. 1745 —Irish Songs.
D. 1.750 —Serenade (from “The Student
Prince”).
D.l7sl—Drinking Song (from “The
Student Prince”).
D. 1769 —Deep in My Heart, Dear (from
“The Student Prince”).
Operatic Numbers.
D.l742—Elsa’s Dream (from “Lohen-
grin”).
D.l746—Celeste Aida.
0D.1748 —The Student Prince (Selection).
D.T749—Bridal Chorus (from “Lohen-
grin”).
OD. 1776—Ruddigore (Selection).
OD.l76B—Gilbert and Sullivan Medley.
OBTAINABLE EVERYWHERE.
: avastertouch .
Mand Played ■ =/\
. .nusic Rolls .
’ _ are the
LATEST amd BEST
G. H. Horton & Co., Ltd.
Wholesale Distributors Only, 66 CITY ROAD, SYDNEY.


m
.Ts
<>
B
%
*
m
0
m
mm
))Wr
iLtm
ELECTRICAL
HOUSEHOLD
HELPS
Though prices are competitive
with other lines, UNIVERSAL
Electric Appliances offer best
value obtainable—in quality of
material, attractiveness of de-
sign, workmanship, or service
rendered.
Such Universal Electrical Appliances as Irons,
Kettles, Stoves, Toasters, Carpet Sweepers,
Radiators, Heater Pads, Percolators, etc.,
deserve your attention now.
Ask your Electrical Dealer or your Hardware
Store about their many merits—and be sure to
—Do it electrically.
Free Literature Sent on Request.
Factory Representatives for Australia and
New Zealand:—
W. G. WATSON & CO., LTD.
279 Clarence Street, SYDNEY.
29 Hunter Street, NEWCASTLE.
933 Hay Street, PERTH.
200 Queen Street, MELBOURNE.
28 Coromandel Place, ADELAIDE.
55 Charlotte Street, BRISBANE.
A. SAUNDERS’
SPECIALLY SELECTED DIAMONDS
REAL PLATINUM
: SETTINGS : :
A. Saunders’ Single
Diamond, Octagon-
shaped, Platinum-
set, 18ct. Gold
Ring,
£5.
m
fara
A. Saunders’ Dia-
mond Cluster, Set
Platinum, 18et.
Gold Ring,
£6/10/-
A. Saunders’ Three
Diamonds, Octagon-
shaped, Platinum-
set, 18ct. Gold
Ring,
£7/10/-
A. Saunders’ Dia-
monds, Octagon-
shaped, Platinum-
set, 18ct. Gold
Ring,
£l5.
tm
mm
2
\
A. Saunders’ Dia-
monds, Fancy Plati-
num-set, 18ct. Gold
Ring,
£2O.
A. Saunders’ Three
Diamonds, Hexagon-
shaped, Platinum-
set, 18ct. Gold
Ring,
£lO.
A. Saunders’ All-
Diamonds and Plati-
num Wedding Ring,
£25, £3O, £35,
£4O.
A. Saunders’ Single
Diamond, set 18ct.
White Gold Ring,
£l5.
A. Saunders’ Dia-
mond Crossover,
Set Platinum, 18ct.
Gold Ring,
£2O.
A. Saunders’ Four
Diamonds, Octagon-
shaped, Platinum-
set, 18et. Gold
Ring,
£2O.
A. Saunders’ Five
Diamonds, Octagon-
shaped, Platinum-
set, 18ct. Gold
Ring-,
£l5.
A. Saunders’ Dia-
monds and Sap-
phire, Set Platinum.
18ct. Gold Ring,
£25.
A. Saunders’ Three
Diamonds, Set
Platinum, 18ct.
Gold Ring,
£35.
A. Saunuers’ Dia-
mond Button
Cluster, Set Plati-
num, 18ct. Gold
Ring,
£25.
A. Saunders’ Two
Diamonds, Octagon-
shaped, Platinum-
set 18ct. Gold
Ring,
£2O.
A. Saunders’ Two-
Diamonds, Octagon-
shaped, Platinum-
|set, 18ct. Gold
Ring,
£2O.
A. Saunders' Single
Diamond, Octagon-
shaped, Platinum
set, 18ct. Gold
Ring,
£65.
||
A. Saunders’ Dia-
monds and Emer-
alds, Set Plati-
num, 18ct. Gold
Ring,
£25.
ALL ORDERS BY MAIL Receive
Our Special and Prompt Attention.
WE PAY POSTAGE.
WRITE FOR CATALOG.
A. SAUNDERS,
Watchmaker —Jeweller —Optician,
805-813 GEORGE STREET (opposite Railway Station), SYDNEY.
Your Health!
m
Guinness’s Stout
4(y.S
■
The World Over
1759-1927
OBTAINABLE
everywhere


NATIONAL HOTEL,
BRISBANE.
Charges are for Room Only. European Plan.
Dining Service a la Carte
STRICTLY FIRST CLASS.
TARIFF:
Write for Descriptive Folder.
a
m
Address Manager—
ROWES, LTD.,
Cafe and Hotel Proprietors,
BRISBANE.
n
a
r
r
' m
y
*
//
Fruit 8 Walnut Cake
A cake daiuty of unrivalled delicious
ness.
Its choice ingredients include walnuts
and a rich assortment of fruits such as
cherries, sultanas, and best quality
citron peel.
The unique circular shape
permits of easy cutting with-
out waste.
In Attractively-
Ornamented Tins
of 31b., 41b., 51b.
All Grocers.
THE HOTEL RANELAGH,
ROBERTSON, N.S.W.
Australia’s Tourist Hotel De Luxe.
Accommodation for 130 guests.
Outdoor sports: Golf, Tennis, Riding, Croquet.
Indoor amusements: Dancing, Billiards, Bridge, etc.
WINTER TARIFF: Mon. to Fri., 17/6 per day,
Sat., Sun. and Holidays, 21/- per day.
Inclusive Weekly, £6.
Booking Office: 84 Pitt Street, Sydney. ’Phone: 80491.
Melbourne
Chatter
Buckley's
Elizabethan
Tea 'Rooms
R[?] C[?] [?] [?]
Buckley [?] Nunn [?]
[?]
The Victoria League put a good deal of
social frill on its annual meeting, which was
held at the Embassy. Lady Somers, who is
president, wore a striped kasha suit, and had
the Chief Justice’s lady at her right hand
and secretary Ellison Spowers at her left.
Rear-Admiral Napier spoke up and urged
the League to take an interest in the lower
ratings of his service. It was recorded that
in the year the League had added 191
members to its roll, and had done a lot of
work in connection with the Women’s In-
stitutes. The Hospitality branch and the
Bush Library workers had been as busy
as bees.
Dogs and cats had their day at Wirtli’s
Park on Saturday, under the protecting wing
of the Ladies’ Kennel Club. The pens and
dens were numerous and a multitude thronged
around them. The cats came in seraglio
seclusion, their beauty shrouded in baskets,
but the dogs rode proudly in motors, perk-
ing up beside their owners. In some cases
—-secretary Nellie Patterson’s Cairn terriers,
for instance —they sat in their seats like
statues until called to be judged. The
Cairns, of course, are favored by Edward
P., and behave accordingly. Mrs. S. Rebot-
taro’s big Russian borzois also comported
themselves as to the limousine manner born
—they come from a Royal Kennel strain.
One of Mrs. Fritz Hart’s miniature black
and tan terriers carried off the prize for the
best puppy. There were terriers galore—
eight different sorts of them, with a speci-
ally big clan of Scotch. Sealyhams, the
breed made popular by society novelists,
looked pityingly on the jejune Poms and
Pekingese. The bulldogs looked sorry for
themselves. They feel the cold dreadfully,
and were clad in coats of divers colors. Most
self-possessed of all were the cats —especi-
ally the big grey Persians. They knew their
own worth.
Ex-students of the Vaucluse Convent,
Richmond, last week held their first annual
jazz at old Admiralty House, now known as
Bibron’s. About 35 hostesses, who were dis-
tinguished by wristlet posies tied with
emerald green and white ribbon, engineered
the jollo. Gertrude Louglinan, in a powder
blue taffeta frock, was secretary, and Mrs.
Campbell, whose robe was of orange hue with
a sprinkle of crystal, was president. Many
pleasant parties gathered around the tables.
Mrs. Pohlman and her daughter Dorothy,
the latter fringed in tones of green, had many
nice boys and girls with them. Pianist
Raymond Lambert, painter G. C. Benson
and his wife, and Norman Lee were there.
Jean Clack, in a pretty rose-red frock, and
Aubrey Dye, garbed in amber, were sighted
beneath the soft golden light.
Presbyterian College Old Girls’ hop at St.
Kilda Town Hall on Thursday night brought
out 16 white-clothed maidens. They were
solemnly presented to the president, Miss E.
Mollison, who had a sparkle of gold sequins
on jade green georgette. Doris Moore,
daughter of the C. B. Moores, who seere-
taried, was in blue scattered with crystal.
Roses red, trailing over gilded arches and
upon trellised walls, cheered the ballroom
for the Essendon civic hop. The stage was
set as a bit of bush in which nestled a
settler’s hut with tennis-court and radio
aerial—-possibly a bit of immigration propa-
ganda. Mayor Thomas and his sister, Miss
Thomas, who plays the role of Mayoress,
smiled upon a bevy of white-clad debs. Miss
Thomas carried a posy of Duchess-of-York
pansies that blended beautifully with a robe
of old-gold chiffon velvet.
Officers of the 2nd Infantry Brigade held
a jazz at Ormond Hall on Thursday night.
Colonel D. A. Luxton’s wife took the floor
in a gown of chenille-embossed georgette of
varied hues. Rear-Admiral Napier’s life-
partner looked smart in emerald green with
a sparkle of crystal. General Chauvel’s lady
was in pink. Brigadier-General Grimwade’s
wife wore scintillation of black.
Sandringham’s first civic ball, held last
week, was quite an elaborate affair. About
TOO guests thronged the City Hall, which
had as a temporary annex a big marquee
with a fine dancing floor. Pink roses met
the eye everywhere, with trails of wistaria
for contrast. Twenty-four debs, made their
curtseys in soft pink-hued gowns fashioned on
early-Victorian lines in taffeta, with full
skirts, whose petalled hems melted into gold
lace. Ten pages in white satin suits her-
alded their first appearance. Mayor and
Mayoress Ramsay, she a study in gold lace
and lame with a touch of jade-green, listened
to many congratulations on the success of
their entertainment.
St. Patrick’s Old Collegians’ dance at St.
Kilda Town Hall was a rather bumpy affair,
but the crowded condition of the floor was a
tribute of affection for the old school. The
college colors, royal-blue and white, were
linked with pale gold in the decorative
scheme. Miss E. Cormick helped President
Curtain to welcome the guests in delphinium-
blue with a glitter of crystal. Dr. Maurice
Macgillicuddy’s wife, with a white rose
shoulder posy on a black gown, lent a hand
with the hostessing. Nan Browne, in white
and crystal with a crimson velvet bridge-coat,
and Miss J. Holder, in opalescent raiment,
assisted. Dorothea Hart in pale green ninon
trimmed at the hem with plumage to match,
Mrs. P. Kearney in foxglove-mauve with
embroidery of silver sequins, and Mrs. D. J.
McGrath in an opalescent robe with floral
adornment arrested the eye.
When Zimbalist, the fiddler, stepped on to
the Auditorium stage on Saturday night he
had as chief barracker Dame Melba, who was
in the front stalls with John Lemmone,
Stuart Robertson and Bindley Evans. She
paid for 20 Melba Con. students, too. Amy
Castles was prominently on view, accompanied
by her sister, Mrs. Finn. Melba’s protegees
sat behind her, white frocked, and rose to
their feet when, after the Hubay Concerto,
the Dame handed up a monstrous laurel
wreath, and the virtuoso gracefully bent
and kissed the hand of the diva. Melba, whose
enthusiasm was contagious, was radiant in
a glimmer of opalescent sequins, with a crim-
son bridge-coat. Metallic lace, that had a
glitter of jewels about the brow, swathed her
locks. Madame Alma Gluck, who beamed
on her husband’s triumph, was a vision in
biseuit-hued striped satin with dangling
ropes of pearls. Mrs. Barry Thomson,
Rita Hope, Katie Biddle and other music-
lovers helped with the applause.
Alma Gluck, the singer, who, with her
fiddler-husband Efrem Zimbalist, was given
a welcome at the Byceum the other night
by the Music Club, is slim and of medium
height, has beautiful eyes and wears her
black locks with a becoming crinkle. Her
simple frock of apple-green georgette was
topped with a silken shawl in blurred effects.
Secretary Muriel Campbell, in sparkling
white, extended a hand of friendship to the
visitors, and the Music Club’s vice-president,
Thomas Brentnall, recounted with pride that
he was one of the audience at Alma Gluck’s
first recital in Bondon in 1913. Madame
Gluck replied for herself and husband. She
won’t be heard on a Melbourne stage till 1929.
Old Italian and English songs were sung
by Muriel Cheek and the Fritz Hart ar-
rangement for violin of three Bach choral
preludes was played by Margot Macgibbon.
The reception - room was made gay with
bowls of wattle and pink heather. The
Charles Taits, Arthur Robinson’s lady, Mrs.
E. W. Outhwaite, Margaret Chalmers, of
Sydney, Mrs. Cass, handsome in black with
a gleam of jet. Mrs. Fritz Hart and the
W. B. Spencer lady were there.
This head, which has escaped the shingle,
is owned by Bulletin contributor Ethel
Martyr, who
is gaining re-
cognition in
the world of
fiction. The
B i g Strife
impelled the
Bendigo lass
to write
verses on be-
half of Bel-
gium’s desti-
tute children ;
then she
turned her at-
tention suc-
cessfully t o
prose. Finding
her job in a
bank cramped
a literary out-
put for which
there was a
market, Ethel
resigned her
post and took to ink in earnest. Lately
she has been making a name as a writer for
the very young, but she cherishes an ambi-
tion to write the big Australian novel.
Sweet young things from the Uni. Con.
bustled round in chic aprons with tea and
cakes at a greeting to fiddler Zimbalist and
his wife at Melba Hall on Friday afternoon.
Music was made by Evelyn Cadd, Lilian
George, Marjorie Prockter and Isobel Carter
after Bernard Heinze had said welcoming
words, A posy of pink and mauve blossoms
handed to Madame Alma Gluck brightened
her black fur-adorned raiment, topped by
black millinery. Archgaiters Lees, Mrs.
Arthur Hordern and daughter Mary and
Ur. Ethel Osborne gave tone to the doings.
The Austral Salon, with Mrs. E. Fyffe as
hostess, took Marie Burke and Warde Mor-
gan to its bosom the other afternoon, Miss
Burke attending in a pervenche-blue frock
and hat and fur wrapping. Her mother,
Mrs. Underwood, was there, too. Violin
solos of Margot Macgibbon headed the musi-
cal bill.
The “million shilling” appeal for the
establishment of a State orchestra was
launched rather discordantly. The fact
that the Lady Northcote Trust sponsored
the scheme engendered a fear that the Mel-
bourne Uni. Orchestra was nominated as
sole beneficiary, and that caused a lot of
heart-burning. But at the second meeting
harmony reigned. Fritz Hart, of Albert-
street Con., explained that there was to be
combination, co-ordination and co-operation
of all the orchestral groupings, and he pro-
duced 2000 shillings got together by a few
of his friends as a guarantee of good faith.
One of the best known of Victorian
Women Painters. Miss A. M. E. Bale, looks
out of this window, Ruth Ilollick’s studio
being respon-
sible for the
pict u r e. A
National Gal-
lery student at
the outset, Miss
Bale later fell
under the sway
of Max Mel-
drum, though
she shows no
trace of the
association in
her latter - day
work. A mem-
ber of th e
Women’s Art
Club and Vic-
torian Artists’
Society, she is
also the secre-
tary of the
“Twenty Pain-
ters,” whose
Septembe r
show is now in preparation. Miss Bale is
most successful in still life and genre
studies, but doesn't neglect landscape and
portraiture.
Members of the Women’s Art Club were
much perked up when Lady Somers wenr
on Wednesday to view their show at the
Athenaeum Gallery. Captain A. W. Mal-
colm attended her Ex., who regarded the
exhibits with an appreciative eye.
Mayoress Morell was in the front row of
a well-filled house at Margot Macgibbon’s
farewell concert at the Assembly Hall on
Friday night. Miss Macgibbon, fiddle in
hand, bowed her final thanks over baskets
of wattle, plun; blossom and wild heath,
and a black cat mascot. Her pink frock
had a garland of blossoms below the waist-
line. Marie Bremner, who warbled, had a
crimson rose perched on a frock of white
satin and tulle; and Jean Hambleton, who
also sang, was imposing in cream satin
striped in many colors. Fritz Hart’s wife,
the Tallis lady, Mrs. Herbert Brookes, Mrs.
Charles Tait, Mrs. H. E. Spry, secretary
Muriel Campbell, Marie Mackinnon, Beatrice
Touzeau and Mrs. Fleming Dunstan en-
gineered the show, with Ernest Bremner as
holder of the purse. Students of the Albert-
sfreet Con. vended sweets and programmes.
"Outward Bound” had a good reception
on Saturday night at the Athenaeum. It
was only an hour short of midnight when
the freight of the dead put into port and a
few mourning-coaches full of flowers were
handed up as a mark of sympathetic grief.
The only person unaffected by the prevalent
gloom was Frank Talbot, who had been in
the box-office. For once there was better
dressing in front than behind the footlights.
Mildred Cottell wore a smart fawn tailored
suit, and later donned draperies of black
georgette and jet, and pretty Zillah Bateman
sported a duck-egg-green coat frock with a
cape attachment, but that exhausts the
play’s fashion notes. Rear-Admiral Napier's
wife was in a box with Mrs. Peter Gaw-
thorne (her husband was in the cast),
whose leaf-green georgette frock had em-
broidery of lilies of the valley in white and
crystal. Harriet Bennet’s mother, in the
same party, wore a mauve evening coat. Elsa
Stralia was in the d.c. with her sister. Mrs.
P. White; and Louise Lovely and the Elmer
Pauly couple were in the stalls.
The Pirandello play, “Six Characters in
Search of an Author,” which was put on by
the Repertory Society, has aroused curiosity
concerning Italian dramatists in general—
and no wonder! The Playlovers’ Club is
supplying the just-felt want with a series of
lectures and readings, starting last week
with Marco Praga’s “The Closed Door.”
Councillor Angela Booth talked about Praga,
and members of the Little Art Co. read the
parts.
The revival of “Trilby” by Moscovitch at
the Theatre Royal has let loose a flood of
reminiscences of earlier stage presentations
of Du Maurier’s novel. It is recalled that
when Edith Crane was the artists’ model the
charming voice raised in “Ben Bolt” ema-
nated from the singer who is now R. W.
Best’s lady; her husband was knighted for
his long State and Federal services—he
wound up as a Senator. The lady possessed
a contralto voice of exceptional sweetness.
There is rejoicing in the Best home at
Kew, where news has been received from
daughter Nancy that her husband, Julian
Wheeler, who was lately promoted to the
rank of Lieutenant-Commander, has been ap-
pointed to the Admiral’s Staff in the China
Command. The pair will live at the em-
bassy, and when the mail left the new A.D.C.
and his Aussie wife were dismantling their
’Frisco home, and making ready for the new
possy. A holiday in Europe, mapped out
for this year, will have to be postponed.
Norman Lee is making his first appear-
ance in the movies, playing opposite to Beth
Darval in the initial production of the
Kaola Company. The scenario is by Gerald
Hayle, who is responsible for that of En-
vironment,” now showing at the Palace The-
atre. His new effort, which gives prominence
to our seaside resorts, is titled “The Rising
Tide.”
Merric Boyd, the art potter, is at present
seriously ill in the Alfred Hospital. _ A
nervous break down, the foundations of which
were laid by war service, is the cause. It
will be some time the clever craftsman
can again work at his wheel and kiln.
The newest of our “Art salons” is _ the
Cheyne, run by Rene Monteath, her sister
Hazel, who was for a time a student at the
National Gallery, and Wanda Parsloe. Elma
Roach has shown her faith in the venture-
some trio by sending along beautiful speci-
mens of articles in enamelled wood, and
some of her water-colors. Etchings by John
Shirlow, pictures by Dora Wilson, and pot-
tery bearing the signatures of Merric Boyd,
Philippa James and 11. Drew figure in the
stock.
Yet another woman doctor has been ap-
pointed by the City Council to administer
the Schick test to young people and stave
off impending epidemics. Dr. Hilda Essou,
better known by her maiden name of Dr.
Bull, holds the just-created position, her
specialty being the warding off of diphtheria.
She is the wife of Louis Esson, one of the
best known of Australian writers. Besides
holding a medical degree she is a Bachelor
of Science of Melb. Uni. During the war
she was medical officer at the chief drafting
depot in London, which paved the way to an
important medical job in the Big Smoke
later on. She has done much research work.
Her hobby is mumming, and the Uni. Dram.
Soc. and'the Pioneer Players valued her as
a clever and versatile member.
Professor Lyle’s lady, who makes her gar-
den a vade mecutn of good works all the
year round, sent the Busy Bees a cheque
for £lO last week, proceeds of recent horti-
cultural sales. The charity workers of
Swallow and Ariell found the unexpected
gift, very useful.
Mrs. W. G. Sharp is showing an inclina-
tion to make a long stay in London. Her
daughter, Mrs. Guy Watts, has acquired the
lease of a roomy Mayfair house, and with
such old friends as James Burston’s widow,
Mrs. L. Mcßean and the J. K. Merrits with-
in calling distance, the absent one is not
likely to suffer unduly from home sickness.
The marriage of Enid Atkins to Jim
Richardson, of Ararat, will be a small and
unpretentious affair, to the dismay of her
set, who expected a big splash. The bride-
to-be is the youngest daughter of Charles
Atkins, of Goodrest, South Yarra.
R. R. Slioll, the Rhodes scholar, lias ended
his brilliant career at Oxford, resigning a
Fellowship of Brasenose College which was
offered him for a period of five years. He
is returning to practise law in this city. .An
Australian fiancee supplies the explanation.
Mrs. Walter Travers, who died suddenly
during the week, was a sister of Prof. Har-
rison Moore’s lady. The fine spirits in which
the Moores set off for America will be con-
siderably damped by the sad happening.
John Grice and his lady, who went abroad
to see their daughter Hilda safely hitched-up
to her airman, are on the way home.
Artist Harold Herbert has taken his
sketchbook and paintbox to Noumea. On the
same steamer were the Jack McComas couple
and Mrs. Ivan Gutmann.
Bridge is being recognised as the very
serious thing it is. It’s being taught in the
schools —or at least in two of them, extremely
select seminaries where the principals know
what’s what. These schools are visited by
a learned theorist each week and there are
doubtless discourses on the downfall of the
Portland fallacies and the triumph of the
American conventions.
Though the clothes-shops announce the last
days of sales of the left-overs of the winter,
and the budding lilac heralds an early spring,
stray model coats for the cold weather are
still coming from abroad. Some of these,
shown last week, were made of what looked
like Indian blankets, a bright draught-board
border enlivening a dark self-colored back-
ground. The things are more gaudy than
neat. Silken mixtures, with bindings of kid
or stouter leather, are finding a ready sale
for wear a little later in the season.


Ws//.
I
Extra heavy top connectors in
Willards* Making them extra
heavy cuts down the resistance
between cells. You receive a
more powerful battery—quicker
response when you step on the
starter.
that's
Quality
STORAGE
BATTERY
';;; S£
•m I*
B
H


Best Sport Competition
(Man or Woman)
IN CONJUNCTION WITH MONSTER ART UNION
OBJECT: TO RAISE £25,000 FOR THE
KINDERGARTEN UNION OF N.S.W.
Will you help us to raise £25,000 so that we can erect more Free Kindergartens
and establish a Hospital Kindergarten where poor crippled children doomed to
a life of suffering can be brought each day, to derive the benefits oi the beautiful
Kindergarten teaching and to have a little more sunshine brought into then hves.
Mr. Boyd Edkins —well known to all motorists, and a good sportsman—has
agreed to stand as a candidate in the “Best Sport” Competition. Racing Clubs,
Sporting Bodies and several large Business Houses are nominating candidates.
We need your help.
COMPETITION PRIZES:
Ist Prize—
A Citroen De Luxe Motor-car (Imported Body), valued at £4lO
2nd Prize—
Full Sporting Outfit (for man or woman), valued at . . .
3rd Prize—
A Special Prize of an Order for Goods on any Shop to the
value of
(To be competed for by Business Girls.)
£lOO
£5O
ART UNION.
The first prize in the Art Union is a Three-year-old (imported) Racing
Thoroughbred—“Sunflare” by “Sunstar” (winner of the English Derby), valued
at 1500 guineas. “Sunflare” won the Newbury Twyford Nursery Handicap, 7
furlongs, beating 12 others, and was then bought by Mr. Rundle Brendon and
shipped to Australia, and is now at H. Chisholm and Co. s stable, Randwick.
Insured for £lOOO, policy will be. transferred to holder of winning ticket.
2nd Prize- A Vauxhall 14-40-h.p. Motor-car (Latest Model), valued at £BOO.
3rd Prize: An Oldsmobile Coach, valued at £3OO. 4th Prize: A Pianola (Gul-
bransen), valued at £220. sth Prize: A Piano (Beale’s Upright Grand), valued
at £165 6th Prize: Gramaphone (Brunswick), valued at £125. 7th Prize: Sonoia
Wireless Set (Elf Wilks), valued at £ll2. Bth Prize: Electric Kelvmator, valued
at £lOO. 9th Prize: Case of Stainless Cutlery, valued at £75. 10th Prize: Gold
Diamond Studded Wristlet Watch, valued at £37/10/-. And 14 other prizes,
making a total value of £3658/12/-.
Art Union will be Drawn in the Town Hall on November 23 at / p.m.
Butts and money must be in not later than November 21.
All Information and Art Union Tickets, 1/- each, in £1 Books,
Obtainable from —
THE ORGANISING SECRETARY,
MRS. MACDONALD,
12 SPRING STREET, SYDNEY.
Tel. 84970.
p
Registered Ti'aau-nuu'U.
BRITISH
SCISSORS of
HIGH QUALITY.
SOLID STEEL. A LIFETIME’S WEAI
Represen.t'fitives :
NORMAN BAKER A LONOHURST. LTD.,
Sydney, Melbourne, and Wellington, N.Z.
CHRISTOPHER JOHNSON & CO., Sheffield,
FLAG BRAND CUTLERY. England.
No. 1369
If any illustration in “The Bulletin” takes your
fancy, write to the Manager, who will quote you price
for the original.
tsW
“ISKO”
For Years has been the
HOME
COLD STORAGE
in N.S.W.—
Supplying
Ice Cubes,
Cool Drinks,
Saving Spoilage,
Preventing Disease.
Avoid another hot
Summer. Order early
ISKO Automatic
Refrigerator.
Particulars from
0. SINCLAIR,
415 Kent Street,
Sydney, N.S.W.
Agents Wanted in
All States.
The Little Sisters
Lennon's Hotel
BRISBANE
The Centre of Queensland's
Distinguished Social Life!
QUEENSLAND.
Brisbane.
Like good Queen Vic., Governor Good-
win seems to be able to command the
weather, for the rain decided not to fall
until after the two garden parties at Gov-
ernment House were over. Poinsettia and
some gaudy cinerarias did their bit in decor-
ating the grounds, but one missed Sir Mat-
thew’s pansies. They grew against the grey
old house-wall. Lady Goodwin, a flower-
lover, doubtless will see to all the blossomry
later. Tables spread on the lower lawn bore
afternoon tea for a large number on both
days. On the first day a stock-whip crack-
ing exhibition was given by Dan Haslett.
Her Ex., who wore platinum-grey marocain
and a black crin. capeline, consented to let
Dan twine a whip lash round her neck, and
remained unruffled even to her grey tulle
scarf. Mrs. N. A. H. Campbell wore pink
mariette with a hat of Indian hemp, trimmed
with pale pink; Mrs. Stanley Chapman’s
blue was bordered in grey fur; the Ilardie
lady wore brown; Mrs. Cumbrae Stewart
chose grey crfipe de Chine; Mrs. A. C. Haw-
thorne was in mist-grey; Mrs. T. ,T. Ryan in
silver grey; Mrs. F. K. Brodt'ibb in Nile
green with fox furs; Mrs. M. Forrest in
biscuit and pink mariette with black coney
coat and hat; and Mrs. Espie Dods in navy,
with brown fur coat. A band played, hidden
amidst the trees.
On the second day, Lady Goodwin wore
beige pink mariette and Margot lace. Mrs.
Campbell was in pervenche blue and black
hat; Mrs. J. B. Price, who came with her
brother, Archgaiters Sharp, was in mist-
grey ; Premier Forgan Smith’s wife wore
rose-du-Barry; the Comtesse de Tournouer
looked smart in a grey tailor-made, with rose
velvet cloche; Mrs. Gilbert Wilson chose
black satin; Mrs. M. L. Reading was in
navy satin ; Mrs. J. L. Woolcock, in ivory.
The next big event was the R.C. ball at
which Mrs. T. J. Ryan presented 26 debs, to
Archbishop Duhig. The buds rang the
changes on white and silver, ivory, and white
roses. Mrs. Ryan wore rich black velvet
with a cloak of black and silver. The
Exhibition Hall was decorated in peach-
blossom and asparagus plumosus. Justice
and Mrs. Webb were members of the com-
mittee and the proceeds were for the Sisters
of Nazareth and Sisters of Perpetual Adora-
tion.
This is a
little picture
of Mrs. Itay
Stanley, wife
of a well-
known military
officer who
was lately
fa rewelled on
his retirement.
Mrs. Stanley,
a vivaci ou s
hostess, wa s
one of those
wh o greatly
helped to make
tile visit of the
Duke an d
Duchess th e
great success
they both said
it was —even
if Some of the
demonstrations
were a trifle
turbulent.
Mayor Jolly gave a civic reception to the
English hockey players in the Town Hall.
Freda Bage, as president of the Queensland
women liockeyites, helped with the welcome,
arid in the afternoon gave a tea at the Kiosk
at One Tree Hill for the visitors. They left
North Quay in a fleet of motors and admired
the view from the crest of the hill. Miss
Bage received them in black and rose crepe
de Chine and panne velvet hat. Winter
blossoms decked the tea tables.
Vida Lahey’s show in Wilkinson's rooms,
daily draws a crowd. We are very proud
of our artist.
The Reaper has gathered in Mrs. Ernest
Baynes, wife of the president of the National
Show. She died in her sleep at Montpelier.
Mrs. P. J. Symes was the elocutionist at
the concert on the seventh anniversary of
the Anzac Hostel's opening. Wattle, Ice-
land poppies and flags decorated, and the
Red Cross Society provided supper.
“A.G.M,” sends this from London :
The architects of England are patting themselves
on the back because of the great success of the young
Queenslander, Robert Cummings, of Brisbane, in
bringing the Prix de Rome to their door. This is
the first time the distinction has been won by an
architect, and their societies, clubs and other associa-
tions are cock-a-whoop. Although the shy young
student had won two or three considerable prizes
since coming to England and an honorable mention
in the Victory Scholarship competition, neither he
nor his immediate friends thought he was going to
clutch the supreme honor, even when he was one of
tiie final 11 left in the Rome competition. Before
taking up his studies in the Eternal City, Robert
Cummings is to pay a visit to his parents.
TASMANIA.
Hobart.
Margaret O’Grady has been spending the
time while His Ex. was on holiday with the
Booths at Claremont. Private Secretary
Somers, being off the chain, went to his
people in Victoria. Miss O'Grady was at
the dance got up by several young girls at
the Continental in aid of St. Joseph’s. The
Governor went into residence again on Sun-
day.
Mrs. Turner (president) and Mrs. Colin
Kennedy (hon. sec.) of the Queen Alexandra
Hospital Ladies’ Aid Association, with Mrs.
Gerald Propsting and Mrs. Baxter as organi-
sers, held a social at the Lyceum Club with
competitions, tableaux and a good musical
programme. It had some novel features
that make it still talked about.
Spring flowers decorated the table at a
farewell dinner to General and Mrs. Jess at
the Orient. Mrs. Jess wore a blue-and-
radium shot frock with petal skirt and was
handed a pink posy. The hosts and hostesses
were Col. and Mrs. Humphries, Major and
Mrs Williams. Dr. and Mrs. Goddard, Cap-
tain and Mrs. Perkins, Mr. and Mrs. Russell
Young, Major Turner, Capt. and Mrs. Bod-
dam, Mrs. W. Hodgman. Col. and Mrs.
Crisp, and Mr. and Mrs. Douglas McLaren.
After dinner a move was made to the Con-
tinental, where the diners danced till mid-
night.
Madame Bresslern Roth’s show of wood-
cuts is delighting all artistic eyes at present.
Julian Ashton arranged the exhibition. The
artist, a native of Austria, though still only
in her thirties has a wide European repu-
tation. Her animal studies are extraordin-
arily good, the coloring being exquisite.
“A.G.M.’s” note from London: —
Lily Allport, who alter an interesting and success-
ful art career in London and Paris returned to her
native Hobart in 1922, is now back in London
with an exhibition of water-colors and sketches.
She had a quite successful opening day at the
Gieves Art Gallery in Old Bond-street; several of
the higher-priced pictures were sold in the early
afternoon. Among the English patrons there was a
decided preference for the pictured old houses of
the island State; one well-known collector declared
that there was more than drawing and fine bruslnvork
in the “House at Melton Yale,” “Flint House at
New Town,” “Rodder’s Hotel, the Ouse,” and “Golden
Mists of the Tamar” —there was “the soul of an
historic past, beautifully envisioned by an artist
of imagination.”
SOUTH AUSTRALIA.
Adelaide.
An undulating tableland, richly turfed and
dotted with a little big timber; a back-
ground of thickly wooded hills rising to
Mount Lofty; wide views to north and south
along the ranges, fading into blue and purple
distance, and at one’s feet the chequer-board
of the coastal plain—that is the outlook from
our new golf links at Mount Osmond. Cere-
mony was cut to a minimum on the opening
day; a brief speech from Club President
Holden, a briefer one from the Governor (the
one shower there was chose that moment
to descend), and a mighty vice-regal drive
that opened the links for play—and that was
that. There was a four-ball match for pro-
fessionals, after which the 800 guests, a
kaleidoscopic mass of blues-and pinks ana
reds and yellows, with the more sober habili-
ments of man for contrast, trooped to a
marquee where some day there will be a big
residential club house—and drank tea.
Joyce, second of the Robert Homburg
daughters, has exchanged a promise for a
ring with Trevor, only son of Mrs. L. M.
Heath, Heathpool.
Despite some uplifted eyebrows at the
bumper crop of charity balls they continue
to justify themselves as money-makers. The
Kindergarten frivol netted nearly idUt), and
there should be an equally useful cheque from
the one for St. Mary’s Mission of Hope.
For that, held in a Masonic Hall all hung
with fruit branches, there was a committee
of four matrons and, to help them, a com-
mittee of 50 girls, with a couple more matrons
as their leaders. There was bridge, too, and
a brisk booking of tables. Prince Alfred Old
Collegians had their dance the same night,
its setting a ribbon-bedecked Glenelg I alais.
Daryl Lindsay’s water-colors at the Dun-
ster Galleries drew an attendance on the
opening day that included her Ex. and her
daughter, Mayoress Bruce, and a good many
of our more consistent buyers. Ihe Gallery s
curator, Leslie AVilkie, said an appreciative
word or two at the launching. .
T H Jones, who has just retired from
the Con. staff, after being a member since
its inception, was married the other day
to Mrs. Johnson-James, a well-known teacher
of singing. , . ~
The Women’s Non-Party Association
struck a minor note at its annual meeting,
regretting the resignation of Elinor Walker,
who has been assistant secretary for the last
jo years. Her pen has been picked up by
Mrs. J. Allen.
WESTRALIA.
Perth.
The Animal Ball filled Government House
ball-room with a thousand dancers. It was
a costume affair, and there never was such
an outcrop of Pierrettes and Pierrots,
apaches, brigands and the like in the his-
tory of our city. The only thing lacking was
a vice-regal cachet —Lady Campion is in
England and his Ex. wasn’t available.
Lady Campion, the wife of the Governor of
Westralia —he came to us three years ago
and we haven t
once wanted
to change him
belongs t o
the Byron
family, which
numbers the
poet among
its famous
member s.
Curiously,
though the
poet was in
li i s straight-
laced day
thought to be
a very wicked
ners o n, the
family has
largely given
itself to the
(Ihurch; Lady
Campion’s
father was
among those
who were in Orders. Since she came to
Perth she has done all that a quiet com-
munity expects of its Governor’s lady and
has been a real help to many genuine causes.
Many well-known folk have been treated
hardly by fate recently. The Colebatch lady
fell and hurt her knee ; our most celebrated
wearer of the pink, Jack Durack, M.F.H.,
took a toss and dislocated his shoulder; and
Mrs. Mona Burgess, of West Perth, fell over
a suitcase and broke her thigh.


THE AUSTRALIAN MUSEUM MAGAZINE.
JULy-SEPTEMBER ISSUE NOW READY.
CONTENTS:
EARLY 'DAYS. Notes from the History of the Museum, by Dr. C. Anderson. M.A.
TIIE ISLES OF SANTA CRUZ. Described by E. Le G. Troughton and A. A. Livingstone.
HISTORY OF THE TROUT IN NEAA’ SOUTH WALES. Contributed bv H. K. Anderson.
AVATER BUGS. An Article by Thomas G. Campbell. ANGLER FISHES. Recounted bv Gilbert P. AVhitlev.
AUSTRALIA’S LARGEST FOSSIL. Described by Ileber A. Longman, F.L.S.
The Magazine is fully illustrated. Bright Articles and Nature Stories. From all Booksellers and the
Museum. Per copy, 1/-. ANNUAL SUBSCRIPTION, 4/4 posted.
AUSTRALIAN MUSEUM POSTCARDS. 30 Studies of Australian Birds, in color. Arranged in sets of
5 with informative Leaflet, 1/- per set; posted, 1/1. Pamphlet of N.S.AV. Aboriginal Place Names
and Their Meanings. Now Ready. Obtainable at Booksellers and the Museum, Sd. per copy.
Amusements.
EMPIRE THEATRE,
Railway Square, adjoining Saunders’ Corner,
in Quay Street, Sydney.
Rufe Naylor has the honor to present
2/6 THE STUDENT PRINCE 5/6
By arrangement with J. J. and Lee Shubert,
of New York.
NIGHTLY 7.45 SHARP.
Reserves at Theatre (M.A. 1000), Nicholson's
Paling’s, Hotel Australia, Usher’s, Carlton. Samuel’s.
Matinees Wednesday and Saturday at 2.
Theatre Box Office Hours: 9 to 3, 4 to 9.
¥D N E Y’S CHIEF THEATRES.
J. C. WILLIAMSON, LTD., present
HER MAJESTY’S:
MADAME POMPADOUR.
CRITERION: THE GHOST TRAIN.
ROYAL: YPRES.
PALACE: CRADLE SNATCHERS.
3 r r. JAMES THEATRE, SYDNEY.
Sir Benjamin and John Fuller Present
LADY, BE GOOD!
The Musical Comedy Supreme.
Matinees Wednesday and Saturday, 2.1 b.
Plan at Nicholson’s and Theatre.
CULLERS’ THEATRE, SYDNEY.
Twice Daily, 2.30 and 8.
STIFFY AND MO.
RICKARDS’ TIVOLI THEATRES.
I.essees: Harry Rickards’ Tivoli Theatres, Ltd.
MELBOURNE and SYDNEY.
TWICE EVERY DAY—2.3O and 8.
CELEBRITY VAUDEVILLE.
The World’s Best.
J C. W ILLIAMSO N, LTD.,
Vm MEL BO URN E A TTR A CTI ON S.
HIS MAJESTY’S: ROSE MARIE.
KING’S THEATRE:
TRILBY.
THEATRE ROYAL:
FRASQUITA.
piiIXCESS THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
EVERY EVENING AT 8.
Matinees Wed., Sat. and Holidays.
Sir Benjamin and Mr. John Fuller Present
SUNNY,
The Aristocrat of Musical Comedy.
Box Plan at Glen’s.
A
HENM IT M THEA T R E,
MELBOURNE.
Proprietor: Frank Talbot Pt.y., T.td.
Eessee: E. ,J. Carroll.
EVERY EVENING AT 8-15.
E. .1. CARROLL PRESENTS
O UTWARD B() UND,
One of the most remarkable plays of this generation.
Plans at Allan’s.
BIJOU THEATRE, MELBOURNE
Twice Daily, 2.50 and 8.
GEORGE WARD REVUE CO.
Popular Prices. Plan Cen. 3251.
P A LACE THEATRE, MELBOURNE^
Proprietors, Sir Benjamin and Mr. John Fuller.
Lessees: Advance Films l’ty., Ltd. (by arrangement
with Sir Benjamin and Mr. John Fuller).
Direction: Vaughan C. Marshall.
AUSTRALIANS—HeIp to Establish the Film Industry
in your own country by supporting the
ALL AUSTRALIAN FILM,
ENVIRONMENT.
Twice daily—2.3o and 8.
Pox Plan at Glen’s and Theatre.
IVI ESTIC THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
Second series of the pictures that talk,
DE FOREST’S WONDER PHONOFILM.
ALSO
IRENE RICH in
THE HONEYMOON EXPRESS.
Bo\ Plan at Allan’s & Theatre. ’Phone 7076 & 7790.
HOYT’S
DE LUXE THEATRE,
MELBOURNE.
LEWIS STONE in
THE NOTORIOUS LADY.
ALSO
CLAIRE WINDSOR and CONRAD NAGEL in
TIN HATS.
Prices as usual.
xH E A L LAN WIL K I E Sli AK-
SPEAREAN PRODUCTIONS
NOW TOURING NEW ZEALAND.
Sydney Manager: J. V. Do Batyn.
Head Office: Pulsford’s Chambers, 178 Castlereagh St.
Cable and Telegraphic Address: “Othello,” Svdnev
G.P.O. Box 2229 LL.
AUDITORIUM, M ELBOUR N E.
EFREM ZIMBALIST.
TO-NIGHT, THURSDAY, JULY 28.
Also Sat., July 30 ; Tues., August 2.
Plan Allan’s.
Direction: Concert Tours, Ltd.
If any illustration in The Bulletin takes
your fancy, write to the Manager, who will
quote you price for the original.
Seventeenth Children’s
Portraits Competition
£5
FOR
BOY
BEST
GIRL
£5
(Judgment of Management to be Final.)
I Ten Shillings for every other photo used.
| PHOTOS WANTED FROM EVERY STATE.
For United Commercial Travellers’ Association’s
National Annual, “Australia To-day.’’ Photos (baby-
I hood up (o 15 years last birthday) must have been
taken during last 12 months. BACK OF PHOTO
must show NAME AND ADDRESS AND AGE OF
CHILD with Name ANT) address of sender.
Unused photos will bo returned, post paid. Photos
must reach Editor, “Australia To-day,” Commerce
House, 328 Flinders Street, Melbourne, by October
1, 1927.
f
‘7O/- “Syd. Maurice" OC|
Tennis Racquet for OOf “
A .Tuly Special at Murdoch’s. Super-
excellent hand-made frame of two
pieces, rent ash. Strung with finest
English gut.
Postage Free. Write to Desk R.
MURDOCH’S IN PARR ST. LTD., SYDNEY
Vaseline
trade mark
PETROLEUM JELLY
TO SOOTHE BURNS
Cover burned area with
“Vaseline” Jelly spread
on clean linen or gauze.
Change dressing daily.
Soothing, healing, helps
prevent scars. Good for
all minor skin ailments.
Look for the Trade Mark “Vaseline'*
It is your protection
Chesebrough Mfg. Co. Cons’d
New York London Montreal
BROOKS RUPTURE
APPLIANCE
Can Now be
Purchased in
Australia at London
Prices.
m
If you are Ruptured write at once for full particular
? f this Modern Invention. Light, cool and com
fortable. Exoert attends to Mail Orders.
\gents: GUYATT & CO., Esx 1g63
DEPT. B,
Surgical Instrument and Truss Makers
257 a GEORGE STREET
(Opposite Bridge Street), SYDNEY.
Legal Notice.
WILLIAM ROBERT^WALLACE
JAMES.
DECEASED.
PURSUANT to an Order of the. Supreme
x Court of South Australia, dated the
Sth day of November, 1926, and made in
the matter of WILLIAM ROBERT WAL-
LACE JAMES, deceased (formerly of Banga-
lore, India, but late of North Adelaide in
the State of South Australia, Medical Prac-
titioner. who died on the 7th day of Octo-
ber, 1922). No. 216 of 1926, whereby the
following inquiry was directed:—
Who were the next of kin of the said
William Robert Wallace James living at
the time of his death and whether any of
them are since dead and, if so, who are their
legal personal representatives—
NOTICE IS HEREBY GIVEN that
Arthur John Senior James or his represen-
tatives or descendants and all other per-
sons claiming to be entitled under the said
inquiry are, on or before the 7th day of
November, 1927, to send by post prepaid to
the Public Trustee, Supreme Court, Adel-
aide, South Australia, their full Christian
and surnames, and descriptions, and full
particulars of their claims. Claimants are
to attend personally or by their solicitor
before the Master at his Chambers, Supreme
Court. Victoria Square, Adelaide, on the
2Sth day of November, 1927. at 10.30 o'clock
in the forenoon, being the time appointed for
hearing and adjudicating upon the claims,
or in default thereof they will be peremp-
torily excluded from the benefit of the said
Order.
DATED the ISth day of July. 1927
' E. B. Mcßryde,
DEPUTY MASTER OF THE SUPREME
COURT.
N.B. It is believed that Arthur John
Senior James left India for Australia in
1901,
W. J. Denny and Daly, Adelaide. South
Australia, Solicitors for the Public Trustee.
Answers to Correspondents.
.Vo notice (except of a hostile character) will be
taken of communications insufficiently stamped.
Name and address must appear on the MS. Ao
liability is undertaken re contributions volun-
tarily submitted; and no MS. will be returned
unless stamps accompany.
0.A.M.: Wants putting through the plan-
ing machine. Worth it... .P.C.C.: Long-drawn-out.
...'.Vera H.: Not up to previous efforts... .R.0.C.:
Sorry ; we have to spell it c-h-e-c-k... .R.C.: Are
you training your typewriter to jump fences?....
Angus Iff.: No story.... Mrs. R.T.: Alarks of manu-
facture too obvious... .W.N. (Liverpool): Eventide
faded out D.M.R.: “Riddle” remains unsolved....
Cato B,: The lines you use are too heavy for “Fish-
ing” ; the idea is decent bait... .Cam. D.: “If I could
tell thee of my love.” If you can’t do it better
than it’s done in those verses, your cake’s dough... .
P.L.M.: Attempt to rhyme “soul” with “reconcile”
starts dreadful suspicions.... Bert O.: Long-winded
yarn that “would interest the children of the goats
concerned” is infantile. This isn’t a kids’ paper.
....Af.G.: The heroic cat comes home:—
A snake crawled in through the cabin door,
And it coiled round the sleeper’s neck;
And it waggled its head near the sleeper’s face,
And his nose it did softly fleck.
But the sleeper’s breath was laden with rum,
That poisoned the Atmosphere
As he dreamed of a lass of the long ago
He said, “Don’t wake, me dear.”
But the black cat woke from his drowsy sleep,
As lie sat by the bright lire’s glow,
And a lightning spring on the tiger’s neck,
Just saved by his Tomcat, Joe.
... .F.T.M.: Unpleasant.... Raja: Don’t like that
lecturer’s method of telling a story.... Glamis
S.: The mass of words for a small point shows
your weakness.. . .E.E. (East Sydney) : The soul can’t
be “redeamed” in Tub Bulletin. .. .Pat: We like
the way you rhyme “Sodom and G’morrah” with
sorrow.... W.L.T.: “Drought” is rather too dry....
Rod. L.P. : Weak imitation of Quinn collapsed in
second stanza and fell downstairs... .0.A.G.: In-
teresting declaration “Her shoe-lace I not worthy
tie” would he better addressed direct to the lady.
. . . .W.W.G.: Far-fetched. .. .A.McG.: “Violently”
shall not rhyme with “silently” here... .Aspiration:
You pluck the flowers with too rough verses....
A. : “Misery” made us weep salt, bitter tears.
....Gil M.: We prefer the girl in: the bathing
costume to the damsel in Heaven... .E. 11. T.: Enter-
taining descriptive work handicapped by lack of story.
F.C.IT.P.: As you say, an amateur effort....
Gord. M.: “Feat of Strength” suffers from corns.
. ...D.R.L.: Razor humor needs a keener edge....
R.C,ML : They fell outward.... Ethel D.: Good idea;
but verse needs recasting.. V W.C.M.: Father’s red
nose has been a conspicuous feature too 10ng....
Arthur J.: The mail-bag is full of epitaphs; but,
thanks be, yours didn’t mention that the dead
horse was in Heaven.... ILL. V.: That’s three people
you slaughtered in 350 words. Good going. .. .
W.E.P.: Not quite W.G.L.: Aftile story has some
humor, but finishes tamely.... R.J.R. : Old form of
take-down given a poor finish.. -. .M.D.S.: Doesn’t
carry conviction.... F. A. L.: Not a story in it....
B. : Sent to Mirror. .. .Ida S.Y.: Turgid melo-
drama Tal J.: Wc got tired of scanning it
.... .G.8.R.: Of all the verses we have read, there’s
few as dull as “Sally” ... .ILF. II.: The baby’s mature
prattiings not in our line. . . .Dar. AI.: Only 10 —•
yet you bury a sweetheart “whose sweet sin I
shared” in each of two verses. Young devil!....
Kooka: Any particular reason for the verses being
“written in a hurry”? N.R.: Explanatory remarks
about your soul are disorderly... .P.G.AV.: Not yet;
hut keep on. .. . Rellerivo: One of the best: —
The stars above did wane like sparks;
The waves did twirl and leap
To the 'fury of a hurricane
Which lashed the frothy Deep.
Buffeted by the violent winds
Which did wildly howl and blow,
As reverberating thunder pealed,
A ship tossed to and fro.
Harrowing were the scene aboard ;
The pious knelt and prayed,
And other shrieked with terror
As the vivid lightning played.
A hatch of maddened coolie’s
Charged the officers and crew;
While reeled the fated vessel,
A fierce battle did ensue.
Midst the roaring of the hurricane
They grappled hand to hand.
“Know bloodshed e’re we perish,”
Was the captain’s last command.
At dawn upon the ocean.
The calamity was o’er;
Wreckage’ strewed the billows
A thousand miles from shore.
. . . .V.E.C.: S. M. Herald charges for “In Alemoriam”
verses ; we certainly don’t pay for them.... Soames:
The lady who “sank so low” is beneath Bulletin
standard. Verse fails.... Brian J.: Whistle back
your dogs; they don’t interest us*. ..Anna L.: Too
trivial... .L.AI.D.: Wattle verses are beginning to
pour in, but yours is a very poor spray....
Peter P.: Glad to meet you again....
H.AV.P. (Maui): Such matter unsuitable....
P.C.C.: “Smart talk and brilliant witticisms . . . my
natural method of conversation.” Seems an unnatural
method to us... ; AI.C.H.: If you sorted a hectic
sorrow into more composed verse, it would not lose
its poignancy—the seventh line, for instance, only
makes "awkwardness.... H.E.R.: Doesn’t convince.
... .W.J.D.: Had a chance ; keep 0n.... W.11.R.:
You have a good grip of verse form ; but get away
from artificial sorrows. .. .Ped. G.: If you want to
do anything with that idea, get it the old-age pension.
... .H.C.D.: What meaning they convey is too diluted.
... .W.E.S.: It may not. .. .M.R.C.: The mud pies of
“Progress” will not be made in The Bulletin.
. ...G.M.R.: Your ability to tell a story is spoiled
by your knowledge that you are telling it. Get
your idea, then let your characters tell it... .C.McE.:
Did you kill him just for the pleasure of creating
misery?. .. .E.R.AI.: Cheap. .. .D.G.: Rather liked it ;
if you wrote more naturally you should succeed.
....ILL.: A promising idea, but you smothered the
poor thing. .. .Esau: Not taking “copy” faintly pen-
cilled on blotting paper.... E.C.D.: But everybody
knows what that tree is going to d 0.... A.AI.M.:
Too hard to swallow... .Namoi: No grip in it....
R.D.J., Fred AI., P.A.: Reached the second-reading
stage, anyway.
TO ARTISTIC (AND INARTISTIC)
CORRESPONDENTS.
A.C.AI.: Suggests a cockroach crawling over a
patchwork quilt. .. .A.L.: Shivery lines, and the
arm is poorly done.... 8.A.R.: Wedding-anniversary
joke too vague, the bone hasn’t enough beef on it,
and the drawings are terrible.... H.W.: The future
may or may not see the costume worn; it Won’t
see you air artist. .. .A.AI.C.: Lodger with distorted
limbs reposing in a doll’s bed....D.1t.: A r ou needn't
have mentioned that the gag was second-hand
11. S.: No U5C....5.P.: Drawing suffered the same
fate as the steak —it was sent hack G.A.L.:
Couldn’t negotiate the up grades... .A.F.P.: Scribbles
are unwelcojne J.T.: Why did you amputate the
arm?. .. .A.AI.: Didn’t like the widow’s ways.
THE INKY WAY.
THE SCREAMING CONTENTS BILL
[Fob The Bulletin.]
The scoops so enthralling—the dangers
appalling—
The double-dyed mystery—the unwritten his-
tory—
The follies of fashion —the depths of hot
passion—
The underworld news—the clironique scan-
daleuse —
The smartly indecent— cause celebre recent—
'fhe night-life erotic —the day-life narcotic—
The startling disclosure —the ruthless ex-
posure—
The frankness unsparing—the language most
daring:
Thus the contents bill’s boomed with the
puffs of the tellers
Intent on converting bad sells to good sellers.
s.a. Bill O’C.
“S.G.”: The Sydney Daily Telegiupti
people read the sharemarket reports with
complacency these days. Just before they
heroically transformed their old-style politi-
cal journal into a picture-paper, D.T.
shares sold —not freely—at £l. Last week
there were sales at 245. 3d.
“Olla Podrida”: When the Illustrated
Tasmanian Mail celebrated its jubilee the
other day, the newsboys were not forgotten;
they got a free feed and an evening at the
“pictures.” To show their appreciation, the
youngsters undertook to dispose of the next
issue of the Mail within two hours of
publication—and they did it, tool
“Clerk” : All the etiquette of the profes-
sion has been observed by the Law Institute
of Victoria in its decision to publish a jour-
nal of its own. There; has been no indecor-
ous haste. The daring suggestion of expos-
ing the legal soul on a printed sheet was
first mooted by President Rigby in 1912.
Until 1917 the scheme was considered, in
1924 it was approved and last month the
first issue came to light. The Institute mem-
bership meanwhile lias grown from 204 to
074. The Law Institute Journal is to
appear monthly and will speak on all mat-
ters of interest to the legal profession.
“Almurta”: Enrol me among the long-
distance subscribers to The Bulletin (it.
7/7/’27). I started taking it in ’Bl or early
in ’B2 and never missed a copy from then
until I was out of Australia for six months
a couple of years ago. On my way back I
purchased my most expensive copy—a native
runner at Colombo charged me Is. 6d. for it.
I had my paper posted direct to me for nearly
40 years to various parts of S. Aus. Whilst
in Sydney 20 years ago had a look in at
the office and was assured even at that date
that I was one of the oldest subscribers.
“Cosmo”: Strolled into the office of a
country paper in the Speck and found the
proprietor (a grocer) and the foreman strug-
gling with the cables and a gazetteer —the
editor, I gathered, was doing the round
of the pubs. They greeted me with “Where
the dickens is Syn-cope? We can't find it
anywhere.” “Don’t know it,” I said; “what’s
the trouble?” “We got a cable here,” said
the grocer ; “ ‘obit.,’ that means ‘dead’: then
it says ‘Syn-cope.’ ” When I suggested it
was the cause of death they looked at mp
a little suspiciously and. I subsequently
learned, rang up a doctor to make sure.
“Con Drew” : Mention of Nat Gould (B.
14/7/’27) recalls that this prolific and
highly-successful sporting novelist wrote his
first story for the Sydney Referee. “With
the Tide” was the title used in the paper,
but the yarn was renamed when it appeared
in book form. Nat, who was being paid
so much a line, would probably have ex-
tended the story to a 350-pager had not
Evans, the yellow-shirted journal’s propri-
etor, put his foot on the brake. “How long
is this story going to run?” lie demanded,
swooping down upon Gould just as he was
commencing his 37th chapter, “Oh! I can
make, it any length you like,” was the
reply. “Right,” said Evans, “finish it oft
next chapter.” Nat did.
“Harold Hardupp”: At- the Canberra
opening, the Federal Capital Commission
commandeered all the hire cars in the area
for its guests, and allotted a portion of them
to tile army of pressmen who tore about
in quest of news. The arrangements were
marred by a lot of muddling, and there were
occasions when the pressmen themselves, hav-
ing mislaid their allotted cars, had either to
walk or to pay the exorbitant fares levied by
private pirates. Now the Commission is
seeking to recoup itself for some of its out-
lay by sending requests to some of the papers
represented for payment of a share of the
car expense. One or two of the pro-
prietaries have sarcastically asked for par-
ticularised statements; the resultant silence
has been deep.
“Coot”: Benjamin IToare, the G.O.M. of
Melbourne journalists, has just celebrated
his 85th birthday. Seventy years ago he
joined the Portland Chronicle (Vic.). A
few years later he was on the Hamilton
Spectator, where he made the acquaint-
ance of Adam Lindsay Gordon and Marcus
Clarke. His first editorship was in Gawler
(S.A.). In 1871 he helped to found the
Geelong Times, remaining there until
1,887, when Melbourne’s Daily Telegraph
took him. Two years before that paper be-
came defunct he joined the Age staff, and
remained with Syme’s paper for 32 years
until his retirement in 1922. He still does
a good deal of writing.
“Hamer” : One of the probable results of
the defeat of the Conroyite section of N.S.W.
Laborites at the “Unity” Conference is that
the long-delayed Labor paper The World
will make its appearance. It might have
come to light, in 1915, but some of the essen-
tial machinery, bought in America, went
astray at the outbreak of war in a German
ship and, by the time it was replaced, the
paper shortage threatened difficulty. _ The
machinery has not exactly rusted since:
small jobs have just about paid the interest
on its cost. Both the building and plant
are practically the property of the A.W.U..
which holds a majority of shares in Labor
Papers, Ltd.; and the A.W.U. will naturally
jump at the chance of backing the Conroyites
in a future bid for power. There is a tacit
admission in the proposal that the Willis-
controlled Labor Daily has had its effect
in winning a majority within the Labor
ranks for the Lang-Willis crowd.


Alemite-Zerk Ford Set
gdf
Ford owners should equip
their cars with the Alemite-
Zerk Lubrication System.
A complete set of fittings
and compressor gun costs
only a small amount of
money and saves costly
bearings. You can easily
install the fittings yourself
in place of the grease cups.
Makes Ford lubrication
easy and positive.
Alemite Transmission
Lubricant
gd
An entirely new type of lu-
bricant for gears and trans-
mission. Reduces friction
to a minimum. Means from
1 to 1% more miles per gal-
lon of petrol by actual test.
More pep and power, long-
er life for gears. Two-finger
gear shifting in cold weath-
er because it does not hard-
en or “channel.” Made
without fillers. Have it put
into your transmission gear
boxes every 2500 miles and
say good-bye to rear-end
troubles.
Alemite Chassis Lubricant
taJEMtH
Made especially for use
with the Alemite System.
Will stand up under 3000
pounds pressure. Ordinary
greases break down at 200
pounds. Resists heat up to
400 degrees Fahrenheit.
Will lubricate properly
at 30 degrees below zero.
Equally valuable for farm
implements, motor-boats,
etc. In convenient 5-pound
tins.
Alemite Gas-co-lator
~JI
A device for filtering the pe-
trol as you drive. Takes
out all the water and dirt
particles that clog the car-
buretor. Removes the
cause of practically all
trouble from excessive car-
bon, oil dilution, pitted
valves, hard starting, stall-
ing. Sold on a 30-days trial.
Satisfaction, or money
cheerfully refunded.
Alemite Spring Protectors
f
For good looks and easy-
riding. Made to fit every
model and size of motor
car springs. Snug fitting,
nickel trimmed. They keep
out mud and grit, stop
squeaks and give added
tyre mileage. Last for
years. The surest preven-
tive against broken
springs.
Alemite Penetrating Oil
.
A graphite lubricant de-
signed especially for use
where extreme penetrating
qualities are essential. Un-
excelled for lubricating mo-
tor car springs. Works in
between the spring leaves
without jacking up the car.
A perfect lubricant wherever
a light oil is needed. Dis-
solves rust, prevents cor-
rosion. Speeds up dismant-
ling work by loosening
tight bolts and nuts. Sold
in pint and gallon tins, and
1 arge drums. Can be sprayed
on with a special sprayer
equipment.
V
Whyi
you should ask about lubrication
when you buy your next car
Of course you are interested in economical
driving. You want high petrol mileage, low oil
consumption, long wear from tyres —but re-
member these facts.
First, that repair shop records show that three-
fourths of the operating costs of running a car
consist of depreciation and repairs.
Second, that 80% of these repairs could easily
be prevented by proper lubrication of chassis
bearings.
Proper lubrication means that the lubrication
system must be easy to use, for this means
that lubrication will not be neglected. It means
that the system must provide positive lubri-
cation, for this means that the lubricant will
get to the bearing, stay there and protect the
moving parts against friction and wear.
Alemite Lubrication System is
easy and positive
If the man who is selling you a motor car tells
you it is equipped with the Alemite High Pres-
sure Lubrication System you can feel abso-
lutely safe. It is easy to use and never fails to
lubricate thoroughly.
That’s why it is in use on more than 10,000,000
motor cars today. Why 93 out of every 100
American-made cars are equipped with it at
the factories.
Use it every five hundred miles and prevent
those big repair bills —cut the cost, of operating
your car from a half-penny to a penny half-
penny per mile.
Your present car can be Alemite
equipped at small cost
You’ll be surprised at the low cost of having
the Alemite System installed upon your car.
The work can be quickly done, too.
It merely means that the old-fashioned grease
or oil cups on your hard-working, dust-exposed
chassis bearings are replaced by dust-proof
Alemite fittings.
How the Alemite System works
It is simplicity itself. The handy Alemite com-
pressor gun containing the lubricant is placed
over each fitting. A twist of the wrist forces
clean, fresh lubricant entirely through the bear-
ing, forcing out the old, gritty grease at the same
time. You can do the work yourself in a few
minutes or any service man will do it for you.
If your regular service man cannot supply you
with Alemite fittings or any of the Alemite
Products shown at the left, write to any of the
distributors listed below and you will be taken
care of promptly.
THE BASSICK MANUFACTURING CO-
DIVISION OF STEWART-WARNER
CHICAGO, U. S. A.
Australian Distributors
Bennett & Wood. Ltd. . . ... . 284 Pitt St., Sydney
E. A. Machin & Co., corner Elizabeth and Beckett Streets, Melbourne
Cornell, Ltd Adelaide
C. Atkins & Co. ......... Perth
Motor Supplies, Ltd. . . . . . . . .' Brisbane
High Pressure Lubrication
PAINT YOUR
OWN CAR
MOTOR
PAINT
FORTY YEARS
of scientific develop-
ment in the factory—
-40 years of honest and
skilful merchandising,
have established the
fame of Ripolin
throughout the civilised
world. The extreme
durability of Ripolin
and its ability to stand
llmost continuous wash-
ing make it a wonder-
ful Enamel to use on
Motor-cars.
RIPOLIN WILL NOT RUB OFF. RIPOLIN DOES NOT
REQUIRE POLISHING.
For interior house painting Ripolin is prueticallv everlasting.
WHITE AND 65 ARTISTIC SHADES PROCURABLE FROM ALL
LEADING PAINT STORES.
Write or telephone for Color Card, Booklet, etc., to:
L. A. CORMACK
(off 35 Pitt Street), SYDNEY.
(Factory Rep.), 4 Underwood St.
Telephone, 83284.
BRISBANE: S. J. Squires l
Ltd., 379 Flinders Street;
McMinn & Co. Pty., Ltd.,
INTERSTATE AGENTS.-
Co., 171 Elizabeth Street; MELBOURNE:
ADELAIDE: Clarkson, Ltd., 124 Rundle
58 Collins Street; LAUNCESTON : French
Standard Agencies Pty.,
Street; HOBART: W. D.
Bros., 11 Patterson Street.
Having passed through the early stages of experi-
ment in shaving, men finally adopt the KROPP
as their lifelong friend, because inventive genius
has not yet devised a superior instrument.
™*KROPP
It never
requires
grinding ,
AXX -BRITISH 5
Supplied with Black, Xylonite or Ivory Handles.
Each Razor in a case.
Obtainable from all Hairdressers. Cutlers, Stores, etc.
Wholesale only —-
OSBORNE, GARRETT & CO. LTD., London, England.


Showing one of the twenty-two die-
cast metal units which house the
entire eighty-eight valves in the
Wurlitzer Metal Action.
The Importance of the Metal Action in
Uf)e
a
•co wi mi ore
PLAYER
PIANO
tVitn tne introduction of the Wurlitzer metal action —Player Piano performance tabes on an entirely
new meaning.
Wood, however carefully chosen and treated, cannot defy the influences of climatic changes—whilst the
special non-corrosive metal alloy from which the W 7 urlitzer metal action is made is positively uninfluenced
by the most extreme climatic conditions.
The importance of this lies in the fact that the player action is a highly sensitive piece of mechanism oa
which depends the whole worth of the instrument.
The precision of “Wurlitzer” mechanism, the beauty of “Wurlitzer” tone, is a PERMANENT factor-
built on a foundation that ensures the greatest possible satisfaction.
PRINCIPAL “WURLITZER” AGENTS:
NEW SOUTH WALES: Metropolitan Distributors—Coronola Sales, Ltd., Daking House, Rawson Place, Sydney.
NEWCASTLE: M. Light & Son, Ltd., Newcastle and Cessnock.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA: The Australian Implement and House Furnishing Co., Adelaide.
WEST AUSTRALIA: Musgroves’ Ltd., Murray Street, Perth.
TASMANIA: Findlay's Ptv., Ltd., 63-65 George Street, Launceston.
VICTORIA: Myer’s Emporium Ltd., Melbourne.
Where any difficulty is experienced in procuring a “Wurlitzer,'’ communicate direct with the factory representatives:
Parker, Blau & Co., Ltd.,
8 O’CONNELL STREET. SYDNEY.
308 FLINDERS LANE, MELBOURNE.
SUNDRY SHOWS.
SYDNEY SIIuWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Her Majesty’s “Madame Pompadour”
Criterion “The Ghost Train”
Royal “Ypres”
Palace "Cradle Snatchers”
St. James “Lady, Be Good”
Empire “The Student Prince”
Fullers' Vaudeville
Tivoli Vaudeville
MELBOURNE SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Ills Majesty's “Rose Marie”
King’s “Trilby”
Ro’f-it' “Frasquita”
Princess “Sunny”
Athenaeum “Outward Bound”
Palace “Environment”
Tivoli Vaudeville
K |J °0 Vaudeville
Majestic Moving Pictures
Hoyt's Moving Pictures
♦
Some of the audience of “Outward Bound”
at Melbourne Athenaeum on Saturday were
so excited by an unusual theme that they
could not hold their -comments for the inter-
vals. An ocean liner which turns out to be
Charon’s ferry, a steward who reveals him-
self as the gaunt ferryman himself and five
ordinary coastal passengers who learn that
they are dead are dramatic material that
makes for discussion. And when it is ascer-
tained that the destination of the liner is
Heaven as well as Hell, they being the same
place, there is more matter for whispered
theological debate. Then, when the examiner,
a sort of transcendental Tubby Clayton, in a
solar topee and a white serge suit, comes on
board to judge the dead souls, and confides
to his trembling victims that the after-
life is a glorified Toe H, where the hell of
faithless wives is a villa and servants and a
husband who has forgotten their delinquen-
cies, and wlibre clergymen are put in charge
of super-parishes for all eternity, there is
still further room for back-of-the-hand dis-
cussions.
* * ❖
In short, “Outward Bound” is as enter-
taining and intelligent and ingenious a play
as Melbourne has been to for many moons,
and Joseph Cunningham’s company handled
it excellently. Under the ministrations of J.
B. Rowe, Zillah Bateman, Campbell Copelin,
B. N. Lewin, Mildred Cottell, Henrietta
Cavendish, Lane-Bayliff, Frank Bradley and
Peter Gawthorne, it revealed itself as replete
with a tender, smiling melancholy, with over-
tones of sardonic humor and considerable
depths of human pathos, many parasangs in
advance of the machine-made comedy of the
day. Where, for instance, will you find in
contemporary playwriting anything so deli-
cately searching as the little old Cockney
charwoman’s request to be allowed to enter
Heaven as housekeeper to her drunken son?
Or, despite its fantasticality, anything so
dramatically convincing as the plight of the
young lovers who, being suicides, are con-
demned to travel to and fro on Charon’s
steamship without landing, but who, recover-
ing from partial asphyxiation, escape back
into life accompanied by the good wishes of
all spectators? Whether the show rouses the
hoped-for newspaper controversy doesn’t
matter. It is a thoroughly sound evening’s
amusement.
r v ; i* : ! :
Having two violinists thrust on it in
swift succession- after a long dearth of the
species struck musical Melbourne as a bad
joke until Zimbalist reached his third item
at the Auditorium on Saturday. Then it
sat up and took notice. By the middle of
the evening it began to realise that the
small Russian youth with the face of an
amiable faun resembled his predecessor as
closely as a pastoral symphony resembles
a cockie’s balance-sheet. The • algebraical
technique and strong intellectuality of the
aesthetic Heifetz matched the grey curtain
and the row of 10s. palms in pots behind
him. Zimbalist needed green grass and gum-
trees with voluptuous sunlight in between;
and if he had budded a pair of soft horns
and furry ears, and goats’ feet with small
polished hooves had emerged from his
trousers’ cuffs, few would have been sur-
prised. Heifetz fires his ammunition at
the head; Zimbalist aimed a few degrees
lower down. He played about spring flowers
(Haydn’s Vivace), about pretty little bal-
lerinas in the shortest of skirts (Rameau’s
Mansette) and gypsies dancing with bar-
baric disregard of the conventions (Sar-
asate), because he has a gay heart and
a fund of simple sentiment, and those things
interest him. A large audience decided it
was interested in them, too, and Zimbalist
obligingly stuck to his post alongside the
grand piano and drew up out of an unusual
repertoire encores of such fine easy charm
and immediate appeal that half his hearers
determined forthwith to go and hum them to
their gramophone dealers on Monday.
Dorothy Revier is yearning for beautiful
clothes and finding “The Better Way” to get
them in several thousand feet of luxurious-
ness at Melbourne Majestic, where the first
appearance of the speaking film is exciting
interested comment. Lewis Stone is pursu-
ing "The Notorious Lady” across the screen
at Hoyt’s, where, in addition, “The Collegi-
ans is described as a Universal Junior
Jewel. This gem turns out on inspection to
be a yarn about schoolboys who behave in
a grown-up but entertaining way.
“Rose Marie,” now in its 17th month, will
withdraw from Melbourne Majesty’s shortly,
but not before the mildly melodious but un-
assuming “Frasquita” has faded from the
Royal. Warde Morgan’s name on the pro-
gramme of the latter show is the only altera-
tion of importance on Melbourne’s theatrical
menu this week.
** & #
If anything even remotely resembling
Ramon Navarro or Tom Mix had wandered
into Melbourne Palace on Saturday the man-
agement would probably have scalped it. The
day was dedicated by Vaughan Marshall to
throwing his shock troops into the counter-
attack on Hollywood with the film “Environ-
ment.” The picture is Victoria’s first large
contribution and one wishes Advance Films
success, albeit the photography is hardly as
good as might be wished and the plot has a
few loose ends flying in the wind. Still
every new local production marks a step
forward and there is much to praise. The
generous programme of Australian music in
which the film is framed will go further to
explode the “songless songbird” libel on this
country’s melodious powers. It ranges from
jazz through all degrees of happy lyricism
and opera to national anthems. The rest of
the programme is thoroughly Australian.
* ■ * * *
Advanced students at the Melb. University
Con. put on a programme at the Auditorium
one night last week with instrumental and
vocal offering. The Conservatorium
orchestra, under Professor Bernard Heinze,
provided support for violin and pianoforte
concerto and a warbled effort or two. Mar-
jorie Schmitt’s fiddle was heard with con-
siderable enjoyment in two Ivreisler pieces,
and though Basil Farrell’s tone was small
his playing in the Max Bruch concerto was
pleasantly legato. Ethel Forshaw was a
singer with good production, but not good
enough for Weber’s taxing “Ocean, Thou
Mighty Monster.” Morfyn Jones collected
honors for her manipulation of the keyboard
in the Chopin concerto in E minor, and
Eileen Maley caught the right spirit in some
Debussy numbers.
The necessity for a permanent orchestra
in. Melbourne was demonstrated at the
recital of pianist May Broderick and
violinist Cecil Parkes last week, when
it was necessary to bring the Wil-
liamstown Orchestra Society to the city.
This hardly enabled either soloists or
instrumentalists to do themselves justice.
“SUNNY,” AT
MELBOURNE
PRINCESS’S.
Weenie Winters saying good-bye to her
Jim (Beatrice Kay and Fred Heider).
The orchestra started off commendably in
“The Merry Wives of Windsor” overture,
but the Beethoven violin concerto in D major
rather overburdened the players, who were
also worried with the accompaniment to the
Hungarian Fantasie of Liszt, with Miss
Broderick at the keyboard.
Violinist Margot Macgibbon made her fare-
well appearance in Melbourne last week
prior to leaving on August 3 to pick up a
scholarship at the Royal Academy. The
grace and poise about the lass augur well
for lier success overseas. Her chief offering
was a thoughtful and sympathetic presenta-
tion of the “Adagio and Finale” of the Max
Bruch concerto. “A Nocturne,” by Maurice
Besly, was another bit of artistry. Though
Margot prefers the violin to the piano, she
gained her scholarship upon her excellence
at the latter instrument, and might well have
included a number or two at the keyboard.
Vocal support was given by Jean Hambleton,
Marie Bremner and Norman Bennett, with
Ida Scott as accompanist.
¥
The six Gallenos are back again at Mel-
bourne Tivoli with a display of aerobatics
that justifies the adjective “amazing.” Syd
“NOT TO-NIGHT,
DEARIE,” AT THE
SYDNEY GRAND
OPERA HOUSE.
Jefferson Taite as the Rev. Trenton in odd
attire, and Marie Le Varre as Jolly
Dolly, the actress.
Beck is demonstrating that his country can
produce a first-class comedian when one
is called for. Mildren and Connie and
Bonnie and Gerald are passers-by.
** * *
Melbourne Art shows:—
Norman Mac George, who is on exhibition at the
New Gallery, is a master of the small canvas. Ilis
diminutive performances have the power of in-
stantly and vividly recalling personal experiences of
every Nature-lover. “A Low Horizon” and “Late
Afternoon” are minute gems, perfect in their way.
When he expends more paint over larger areas,
however, his fondness for rich pinks is apt to make
his landscapes rather like by-products of a major
operation. The water-colors aren’t remarkable.
Almost every Australian artist who can afford the
price of a return ticket, to Europe comes back with
an inflated notion of the value of his or her work.
Elma Roach, who is showing 68 small pictures at
the Fine Arts, is a modest exception, and her modesty
is seen to be well founded. Little in the roomful
is above the standard of the good amateur. The
lady’s drawing is inclined to be woolly, and she
employs the same texture for the surface of an
alabaster pillar as for a fisherman’s pants. Some
of her efforts look as if they had been hastily
blotted before they were quite dry; still, her sense
of design is breezy, and her color frequently har-
monious, and when she tightens up her draughts-
manship matters should improve.
John Rowell’s pictures at the New Gallery wallow
in sunshine like so many beach girls; his drawing
is keen and he sings delightfully in paint of Jersey
cows, red gums and the like. Vague misgivings,
however, are aroused by the artist’s fondness for
painting everything silhouetted against the light.
This viewpoint, which is really a stage viewpoint,
is always momentarily effective, but the eye doesn’t
care to linger on pictures so painted any more than
it cares to stare permanently at the orb of day.
Rowell’s own eyes appear to be a trifle blinded from
too much worship of the sun. His pictures lighted
from the opposite direction are just a little weak.
David Davies, the Australian involuntary exile
abroad, and Michele Federico, an Italian, share an
exhibition at the Fine Art Galleries, and the contrast
is ferocious. Davies moves in a world of melancholy
beauty, haunted by vague forms arranged in romantic
patterns. Mussolini’s man sees Nature with a photo-
graphic eye. The result is that the island
of Capri, his favorite stamping-ground, looks like
a series of posters by the Fascist Tourist Bureau.
They recall the island to the present critic’s memory
about as dismally as his own snapshots do. Signor
Federico hasn’t done the famous Blue Grotto.
Perhaps there was not enough light in it for his
camera-eye to work.
The Taronga Park Trust provided Sydney
with its newest show when it opened th°
new aquarium attached to the Zoo. Most
of the aquariums which the city has known
in the past were dark, damp places attached
to more or less ephemeral side-shows; the
present venture is a genuine fish exhibit.
The place is built round and over the lower
entrance-gates of the Zoo, its flat, spacious
roof providing a promenade with superb
views of the harbor. Below, there is a
maze of descending grottoes, lined with tanks
containing assorted sea creatures, the star
feature being a shark pool. Taronga Park
has already made itself one of Sydney’s most
popular resorts; it had an attendance last
year of 708,675 paying patrons.
* *
Most of the current plays in Sydney are
about to make room for others waiting
on the doorstep. “The Sheik” folds his
tents to-morrow and vacates the St.
James; on Saturday night “Lady, Be
Good” will bring back Elsie Prince, Harry
Godden and Charlton Morton. Maurice
Moscovitch will return to the Royal on the
following Saturday with “The Ringer,” dis-
placing the “Yprfes” film, and on the same
evening the Repertory Players will dis-
possess the successful “Cradle Snatchers” at
the Palace. The Repertory bill is Norman
MacOwan’s “Jacob’s Ladder” for one week
and “Mary Stuart” for a second one. “The
Ghost Train” has nearly come to its jour-
ney’s end at the Criterion; here Margaret
Lawrence and Louis Bennison will indicate
‘The Road to Rome” on August 13 or
thereabouts. In the meantime such deserved
success is coming to “Madame Pompadour”
that it is necessary to book at Her Majesty’s
days ahead, and “The Student Prince” is
putting the Empire management on excel-
lent terms with itself. At the Grand Opera
House “Not To-night, Dearie” continues.
*•' v
The Brahms Violin Concerto and Heifetz
proved an irresistible attraction to musical
Sydney on Saturday night, when the Town
Hall was both packed and palpitating. This
concerto ranks amongst the greatest of the
Brahms compositions, and under the bow of
Heifetz the solo work attained nobility and
splendor. The State orchestra, directed by
Arundel Orchard and led by Cyril Monk, pro-
vided a colorful tapestry of sound as a back-
ground for the sparkling cadenza, as well
as for the glacier-like beauty of the slow
movement. Again in the Ernest Chausson
poem, the orchestra played in conjunction
with the violinist, and here all the delicate
artistry of the composer was transmitted
to. a delighted audience. Accompanied by
Isidor Acliron, Heifetz also played “On Wings
°f Song” (Mendelssohn-Achron), Elgar’s
Capricieuse and Wieniawsky’s Scherzo
Tarantelle.
** * *
Weber’s “Euryanthe” is to warm the
seats of the Sydney Conservatorium for a
space, commencing from Saturday night.
Alfred Hill is conducting; the singing and
general stage arrangements will be directed
by Daphne Deane, with some aid from
Gregan McMahon on the dramatic side.
There are two casts of principals to take the
responsibilities of the ambitious effort.
This Showman has not been informed
whether it is Arthur Greenaway or some-
body else who will remark indignantly that
lie would rather be a dog and bay the moon
than such a Roman, but “Julius Cmsar” is to
be staged at the Sydney Conservatorium on
August 12, 13 and 16 with this capable actor
as director. The success of “A Midsummer
Nights Dream,” which was booked for only
two nights, doubtless accounts for the extra
date. The latter had its extra showing, too;
for the benefit of school-children, who have
what is to others a mere delight imposed
upon them as a study, Greenaway gave it
another spin at St. James’s Hall last week.
Fullers’ Sydney theatre has added to its
attractions a flowing stream of patter and
warble supplied by Thornton and O’Shea ; and
the voice of Sylvia Gardiner is now uplifted
in songs of a serious nature. In “Three Doors
in a Passage” Mo gets some good fun as an
extraordinary private detective whose actions
embarrass Alec Kelleway and Sadie Gale;
and Amy Rochelle, now a massive lady,
seems as popular as ever in her child imper-
sonations.
The antics of Max, Moritz and Akka are
keeping Sydney Tivoli audiences amused; a
noteworthy addition to the programme is a
whirling skating act. Another novel feature
is the operatic singing of Linda Bradford, who
went away on a tour of Asia with the
people who used to be the Sistine Choir
before they hitched a lady star to their
waggon, in partnership with Russo, a melodi-
ous soloist. The Big Four, back again, may
be thanked for a change of song numbers:
but the comedy of the present bill is on
the weak side.
C Continued on Page 51j.)


A*
IMP
um
” —■y.i
■ i
£
The Republic Driveshajt IJrake if the
moat highly perfected braling system
ever developed. Note the large ad-
justable shoes and the wide laminated
drum.
The Republic Sprint/ Hanger is ex-
tremely strong and sturdy. Its design
permits the use of special hardened:
stee.l shackle bolls with a separate tie
rod. This assures greater strength
and longer life for these important
varts.
iipr
23
a
?»«*##*
a miqhty
POWER: PLANT
Republic’s four husky cylinders (or six cylinders for
faster transport) form a power-plant with performance
second to none —a power-plant that exerts its maximum
effort with only routine attention—a power-plant that
means efficient, economical transport.
The Republic engine is designed and built to stand up
under the hard daily grind without faltering—with more
than ample power, speed and acceleration for every
haulage requirement. And the unusually heavy crank-
shaft and large main bearings practically eliminate
vibration —insure a continuous, smooth surge of power.
Republic full-pressure lubrication forces fresh, cool oil
to every moving part of the engine. All bearings, piston-
pins and timing gears are constantly bathed in a continu-
ous flow of oil. This direct supply of oil reduces friction
and results in greater power, smoother action, longer life.
A real truck axle, a bridge-strong chassis frame, a drive-
shaft brake, combine to make Republic the truck to work
at a profit under Australian conditions.
Your local dealer will be pleased to show this power-plant
—and other Republic features —at any time to suit you.
MODELS FROM 1 TO 5 TONS.
&
r? \\ \ fj
winrww.
v>
IS
I
I
t
NEW SOUTH WALES:
Larke, Hoskins & Co.. Ltd.. 177 to ISS
William Street, Sydney.
VICTORIA:
Preston Motors Pty., Ltd., Cor. Elizabeth and
Therry Streets. Melbourne.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA :
Rasch Motors, Ltd., 69 Waymouth Street,
Adelaide.
WESTERN AUSTRALIA:
Republic Truck Sales, Ltd., 905 Hay
Street, Sydney.
QUEENSLAND:
Canada Cycle & Motor Agency (Q’land), Ltd.,
Creek and Adelaide Streets, Brisbane.
NEW ZEALAND:
Inglis Bros. & Co.. Ltd.. Taranaki and Cable
Streets, Wellington.
Factory Distributors: W. A. GROWLS, LTD., Orowlc House, Castlereagh Street, SYDNEY.


HULL,
The Natural Port for importation of
Wool to Britain's
Great Manufacturing Towns.
Hocks specially equipped with
Electrical Machinery for the
handling of large quantities.
Warehouse 3{ Acres
Holds 140,000 Bales.
AUSTRALIAN SHIPPERS are in-
vited to inquire for further information
at the offices of Messrs BURNS,
PHILP & CO., LTD., 7 Bridge
Street, Sydney, and Branches.
London S North-Eastern Railway
Largest Dock-Owning Railway in the
World.
m
?*sa
SJ)
itiLL
uLLi
iiitrb]
**
ini
if*' l
iwuuUJII 211
7/
r * A^ ter a,,) hotel sat i sf action is the first essential when travelling. Ton
must have, as nearly as possible, the same comfort, convenience and service
as you would obtain in your own home.
Sj6e
Ifotei Mndaot
SPRING STREET, MELBOURNE,
will give you the utmost satisfaction in these respects.
It is among beautiful gardens, and possesses a quiet
old-world charm, yet it is but a minute from all the
good city shops and theatres. It is the acme of
“homey” comfort, and your every v— —■ is anticipated
and supplied.
REDUCED WINTER TARIFF
Single Rooms:
Minimum Tariff, from 17/6 per day,
£5/10/- per week.
Telegrams and Cables: “Telwinsor,”
Melbourne.
Missing Friends.
/^URPHEY —Will anyone knowing tlie
present whereabouts of WILLIAM.
THOMAS, JESSIE and MARY CURPHEY
(children of the late Captain William
Curphey) communicate with Queensland
Trustees Limited, Brisbane, Queensland,
Australia?
GELWYN. Delighted to hear from you.
Do write soon ; like to see you—little
Keith longing to see big Bruv.
Love from DAD.
GELWYN dear. Delighted to hear you
are well, would love to see you if ouly
for day. We would not try to make you
stay. Quite understand. Remember, Dink,
home is always home. Write more fully and
send address. Whatever happens, keep in
touch with Mother. Fondest 4ove ever.
Better than the usual war pictures is
‘“Tin Hats,” American, of course. The sol-
diers arrive at the front just in time for
the Armistice, and too late to collect any
medals. The Americans cycle unwittingly
into Germany and are enthusiastically
greeted by the Germans as the U.S. army
of occupation. A disdainful German girl
and some wild adventures in her castle com-
plete a good comedy. Sydneyites can
sec it at Hoyt’s and the Strand. “Risky
Business,” now at the Empress, Sydney,
tells the story of a humble country
medico and a rich maid. The infatuated
damsel is sent by her mother to stay with
her married sister so that she may get an
idea of all the discomforts incidental to a
country doctor’s life—and wife. But in
the end she recognises the sterling worth
of her fiance and gladly gives up a rich
suitor for him. A very human and subtly
humorous play.
** * *
Ancient and Modern :
Charles Conder did notable work in nursing an
infant art in Australia; the exhibition of 121
works gathered in England and shown at the Hordern
Gallery (Sydney) is striking evidence of how the
infant has advanced. A fine idea of color har-
monies was Conder’s strong point; his draughts-
manship is lamentable, and the faces of his characters
are mere caricatures. In “Aprils Le Bain,” rather
brilliantly conceived, one of the characters has to
blame her creator for forgetting to give her a com-
plete arm. “The Canopy” and “Summer Night” are
amongst the best, if the paintings on silk are
excepted ; but it is amongst the well executed litho-
graphs that the prizes of the show are to be found.
W. T. Furlong has some paintings of war incidents
hung in a room in Vickery’s Chambers (Sydney),
where, bad as the light is, there is enough of it
to show that it is better than the pictures. But as
illustrations of the war, painstakingly made exact,
the little collection has its interest —there are several
naval battles shown, and one of the pictures shows
the Gallipoli landing.
“Tip-Toes” at the Adelaide Theatre Royal
is mainly remarkable for acrobatic dancing,
American humor of the canned variety, and
Gus Bluett in a sentimental straight part.
Elizabeth Morgan plays the title part in
winsome fashion, the frocking is smart, and
several of the airs catchy. At the Prince
of Wales Kate Howarde’s New Australian
Co. is playing “Gum-Tree Gully” for 10
nights, until Muriel Starr opens her Adelaide
season with “Cornered.” The Majestic The-
atre this week features two ministers on the
bill, both members of the American Episco-
palian Church, the Rev. Frank Gorman and
F. Gayle Wyer, though the latter has dropped
the clerical title and it is time the other
thought about it. Gorman’s songs and bright
patter are popular in Adelaide. The Mc-
Kinnon Boys are versatile on bagpipes and
concertinas, with step-dancing as a side-line;
and Sadie McDonald fills the curious dual
role of violinist and contortionist. “How
About Hannah?” is the Bandbox Revue
Company’s latest effort. After showing it
for three days. West’s were ordered to re-
move “So This is Paris.” “Foot-Loose
Widows” has taken its place, with Jacqueline
Logan and Louise Fazenda as the flappers
masquerading as relicts. “Driven from
Home” is as poignant as it sounds, and the
Adelaide Competitive Choir of 60 voices
provides variety.
** * *
Art in Adelaide:—
A young South Australian artist, Horace Trennery,
a pupil of J. Ashton, is exhibiting at the Institute,
North Terrace, 70 pictures in oil and charcoal, for
the most part small canvases. “Against the Light”
is a charming evening scene, with gums and cattle
against a western sky, which won particular com-
mendation from Hans Heysen; and “Winter Land-
scape” is fully as effective in its way.
Gary! Lindsay, the youngest of the noted family
of artists, is represented at the Punster Galleries
by a show of 32 water-colors. “Bacchus Marsh”
is a harmonious study of Victorian scenery. The
painter’s cloud effects are admirable.
“A.G.M.” from London :
All sails were set to carry Harrison Owen to
success in his introduction to the London stage.
“The Happy Husband” is a good title, the Criterion
Theatre is one of the most popular and best situated
in the West End, there are few better producers than
Basil Dean and a cast that includes Madge Tither-
adge, A. E. Matthews, Stell Arbenina, Mabel Sealby
and Lawrence Grossmith gave his light comedy ideal
service. The papers are not all agreed as to the
quality of the play, but several of the leading
critics praise it for lively and humorous dialogue
and ingenious complications; on the whole the verdict
is that the author has provided a sparkling, clever,
well constructed and thoroughly amusing light
comedy. Madge Titheradge, although the play does
not make heavy demands on her resources, acts the
leading role to perfection, and another old Australian
favorite, A. E. Matthews, as the local Don Juan,
delights everybody in a Charles Hawtrey part.
Poverty
Point
ILLS THE PROFESSION IS HEIR TO.
“I can’t get into my shoes.”
“What! Feet swelled too?"
“C. Ockney": Margaret Bannerman, who
is coming to Australia to star in Somerset
Maugham s “Our Betters” and other pieces,
should prove a powerful attraction for gentle-
men—and others—who prefer blondes. But
her repertory, as at present announced, lacks
the lure of novelty. The long-promised “Our
Betters” will probably look a bit antiquated,
for it was first staged in America in 1917.
These hectic society comedies ajje quickly.
“L. de Rideau”: The noble spirit of co-
operation which exists between Melbourne’s
two variety theatres is remarkable. The
other afternoon I went to the Bijou, and
the last gag I heard as I departed half-
way was the one about the impossibility of
opening a beer-bottle with a banana. When
five minutes later I entered the Tivoli, the
first gag that assaulted me was the one
about the impossibility of opening a beer-
bottle with a banana.
“Hamfat” : Australian actor O. P. Heggie
took John Drew’s part as Sir William Gower
in “Trelawny of the Wells” (B. 14/7/'2T)
when the old man died. Heggie, born in South
Australia, came most into prominence when
he shared with Gregan McMahon the next
most important parts in Charles Hawtrey’s
productions, including “A Message from
Mars.” O.P.H. found his way to Yankee-
land, and has done well there; he was play-
ing Ablett when Drew’s illness gave him
the shove-up.
“Hamfat”; Billie Lockwood is to remain
in Australia. The Firm has discovered that
she is too useful a girl to lose. Judith
Anderson, making a slow recovery in the
Jenner hospital, will not reappear this side
of the Pacific. The trip has been an unlucky
one for her; “Tea for Three” was the only
real success.
“Erua”: The difficulty of the young Aus-
tralian with musical talent and the name
of Biggins (B. 14/7/’27) can be easily over-
come. Some years ago there was a promis-
ing English girl pianist named Liggins. After
a sojourn abroad she became Mile. Ligginski.
“Aussie” : Re the alleged failure of “The
Blue Mazurka” in London. Last week I
had a cable to the effect that the show was
still on and drawing packed houses.
“Cine Ma”: Melbourne Bijou is to be
the silent screen’s next meal. The home
of the slapstick comedian in Bourke-street,
together with the Gaiety picture-house next
door, is to be demolished and this country’s
vastest movie theatre erected on the ruins
by the Union people. It will accommodate
between 4000 and 5000 starers at the sheet,
and is to be designed on such a scale of
magnificence that no small boy will dare to
crack a peanut in its precincts.
“C.C.”: Harry Burcher of the striking
collars and ties has gone to England in
search of more frivolities for the Firm.
Burcher has produced over 60 musicomedie:*
in Australia, probably a record for one
man.
“Cine Ma”: To be logical, the Society for
the Prevention of Cruelty should extend its
eagle eye to the screen. People who watch
the supposedly spontaneous antics of ani-
mals in a film are accessories after the fact.
If they refused to look at a celluloid show
with maltreated dumb creatures in it, the
supply would cease. That cruelty is prac-
tised by producers is well known.' There is
the case of the team of horses that was
deliberately driven over a cliff to make a
satisfying smash.
“Yarra Ben” : Beth Mackey, daughter* of
the late Speaker of Vic. Assembly, an
amateur actress above the average, has
started a professional career. She will get
plenty of experience in Muriel Starr’s reper-
tory. It’s in the blood. Her mother was
a strong supporter of the Melbourne Reper-
tory in its early days, and made several fine
appearances.
“Hamfat”: At the last revival of “Mon-
sieur Beaucaire” at th e Sydney Royal, when
Frank Harvey as the hero showed his smart
sword-play, wounding man after man, one
galleryite was impressed. “Cripes!” he com-
mented loudly, “whv doesn’t one of ’em get
to him with a bottle?”
“Curtain Raiser”: “America’s leading
comedian” is a frequent feature of Aus-
tralia s vaudeville landscape. He arrives
about once a week. Yet in an article on
the American clown which runs through a
two-column list of the most distinguished
funnybones in U.S.A.. Nathan, usually re
garden as the best informed of N’York critics,
mentions only one who lias been here in
recent years. Herb Williams, now on th
iivoli circuit, is that one.
"T.P.O.’C.”: “Sunny” wasn’t a fortnight
old when Saturday and holiday night prices
at the Sydney Empire went up a shilling.
That increase was doubled when “The Stu-
dent Prince” happened along. At the house
that was built to give musical comedy to
the world and his wife at half city rates.
4s. 9d. _ for the cheapest seats on Saturday
nights isn’t bad going. The Firm is resum-
ing its old-time smile.
“Goldilocks”: Songster Alfred O’Shea is
also reaping that country harvest. For an
engagement at Brisbane he left Sydney a
fortnight ahead of time to give Cessnock a
treat, and later do the bigger towns on the
way North. Cessnock is a hamlet that is
never left off the theatrical map now; it
always provides good and appreciative at-
tendances.
“L. de Rideau”: It is refreshing to learn
that the Vanbrugh-Boucicaults, hitherto re-
markable for the revival of the somewhat
jaded Barrie and the completely out-moded
Pinero, are bringing an Australian play with
them on their forthcoming return to this
country. Harrison Owen, well-known to
Bulletin readers, is the author. Even the
title, "The Happy Husband,” is cheering.
There have been no happy husbands on the
stage since Euripides produced “The Bac-
chic.”
“Doghouse”: Anyone remember Frank
Weston, a notable showman in the ’sixties
and ’seventies? His entertainments were
devised for the selling of “Wizard Oil.”
Weston was a capital single-handed enter-
tainer, and played the banjo cleverly. He
is still hale and hearty in Adelaide, though
well over 90 years.
“Nero”: In their preliminary advertise-
ments of the production of “Outward Bound."
the Carrolls omitted to mention the authors
name. Perhaps they don’t know it. It is
by Sutton Vane, son of the Sutton Vane
who wrote many melodramas, including “The
Span of Life,” one of Bland Holt’s favorite
pieces.
“C. de M.”: Fiji has a better claim to
dramatist Captain Reginald 'Berkeley than
M.L. (B. 26/5/’27). He was born and
married there, also he practised as a solicitor
in Fiji until he took a hand in the war.
Then he went to England, became M.P., but
lost his seat at the last election. Berkeley
certainly passed his examinations for law
in M.L., but he at once returned to his
profession in Fiji. He is a son of the late
Humphrey Berkeley, barrister of the Inner
Temple, who practised for many years in
Fiji, where he died; and Humphrey’s brother
Henry was Chief Justice of Fiji.
“A.G.M.” (Lond.) : The presentation of
"Twelfth Night” by Forbes Robertson, his
wife and children, relations and friends has
been the event of the theatrical year. Fifteen
members of the clan took part. Forbes’s
wife, Gertrude Elliott, was Maria, his
daughter Maxine (the Hon. Mrs. Freeman
Thomas) was Olivia, his two younger chil-
dren Chloe arid Diana were attendants and
Jean was Viola. Forbes himself took the
small part of the priest, and admitted find-
ing it difficult to memorise the eight lines
thereof. Robert Akins was Toby Belch and
Baliol Holloway Malvolio. They were all
good, but Jean Forbes Robertson's oddly
serious Viola stood out.
“Caul Boy”: The Moscovitch company’s
declining days in Melbourne were further
darkened by a coolness, or hotness, between
two male members, which culminated in one
breaking the other’s nose, the day before
the assailant was to leave for England. An
assault charge was laid but withdrawn, the
passions of mummers usually being short-
lived. The trouble arose out of the damaged
ones habit on the stage of ostentatiously
regarding the other’s clothes instead of the
actor whom he addressed. Players have
many methods of getting even with fellow-
mummers during a performance. Staring
with an expression of fixed alarm at some
portion of the other fellow’s get-up is one
method. Panic grows upon the victim as
the fear steals upon him that something in
his attire is wrong. I have known an actor,
otherwise possessed of unshakeable aplomb,
reduced in this way to gibbering impotence.
“Irving Phelps” : Irby Marshall, the Aus-
tralian actress whose doings have not been
chronicled of late, is leading lady in America
to George Arliss, recognised everywhere as
a profound portrayer of historical characters.
Arliss is the original American impersonator
of the name part in Galsworthy’s “Old Eng-
lish,” done in Australia very adeptly by
Gregan McMahon; and Irby Marshall is
appearing with him.
“Flaming Youth”: Vaudeville funny-man
Dick Henderson regards this as the best
criticism ever passed on his work: “Laddie,”
said a British star, who takes himself with
immense seriousness, “you’re not too bad.
You’re the only comedian besides myself
that’s made me laugh.”
THE LIGHT THAT LURED.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Join me, laddie; I’ve a story
That will shake you to your shoes'.
Buckstone Binks has gone to glory!
Isn’t that depressing news?
Glow he never ceased pursuing,
Careless whence it came or how.
Thirst for it was his undoing;
Buckstone’s with the angels now.
Not to front stalls was he speaking.
Nor at circle did he pose,
Yet the limelight he was seeking
When his life came to a close.
On the South Cliff he was pacing,
Right upon the topmost lodge;
Suddenly he started racing
Hell-for-leather to the edge
That he might get into focus
Of the searchlight turned on shore
From our old guardship the Crocus. ..
That’s why Buckstone is no more.
In his haste he missed his footing;
Ere his hurry he could check
O'er the summit he went shooting.
Crashed, and broke his good old neck.
VICTORIA.
JOHN MEIGHAN.


Shipping.
WINTER TOURS
Escorted Tours to
MALAYA : : SIAM
JAPAN
Independent Inclusive Tours to
JAVA,
HONOLULU, CALIFORNIA,
BRITISH COLUMBIA,
SOUTH AFRICA, CEYLON,
NORTH QUEENSLAND.
WINTER SPORTS AT:
Mount Buffalo (Vic.), Mount Cook (N.Z.).
South Sea Island Cruises.
Special Programme Post Free from
THOS. COOK & SON,
MELBOURNE:
269 Collins Street.
SYDNEY:
Martin Place.
ADELAIDE:
49a Grenfell Street.
PERTH:
22 Forrest Street (Opp. G.P.0.).
BRISBANE, via BYRON BAY
Through Tickets to Brisbane issued,
i ?RARA —liver}’ Saturday evening; passengers
duo Brisbane Monday afternoon.
S.S. WOLLONGBAR—Every Tuesday evening;
passengers due Brisbane Thursday afternoon.
Both vessels fitted with Wireless Receiving Sets.
I'A RES. BRISBANE;
Steamer and Motor throughout, Single, £4
steamer and Motor throughout, Return, £7/5/-
Meamer and First-class Rail, Single, £3/15/-
steamer and Second-class Rail, Single, £3/8/-
NORTH COAST S. N. CO., LTD.,
Passengers’ Booking Office:
TOURIST BUREAU, CIIALLIS HOUSE,
MARTIN PLACE, SYDNEY.
Brisbane Booking Agents: Burns, Philp and Co., Ltd.
PAUSE AWHILE IN SUNNY
HAWAII
Enjoy eternally balmy weather—in novel setting
of tropical moonlight and melody, quaint tea-
rooms, Oriental bazaars. Exciting surfing and
outrigger canoeing at Waikiki. Enchanted
cruises to the lovely islands of Kauai, Maui
and Hawaii. Golf and motor on all principal
islands. A vacation that is different. Good
hotels from 12/- to £3 per day, with meals.
No extra cost for “stop-over” privilege en
route to America or Europe. Round-trip,
Sydney and return, 8 weeks or less (3 or 4
weeks in Hawaii), £lOO to £l5O, inclusive.
Ask nearest travel or steamship agent; or
write Hawaii Tourist Bureau, Dept. 26, Box
241 D, G.P.0., Sydney, N.S.W., for full infor-
mation in attractive booklet, attaching this
advertisement.
PLAN NOW TO ENJOY
HAWAII
Banking', Public Companies, etc.
THE AUSTRALIAN BANK
OF COMMERCE LTD.
Authorised Capital £5,000,000
Capital Paid Up and Reserves .. £2,685,303
Aggregate Assets at 30tli June, 1926 . . £16,789.590
Directors: Sir Mark Sheldon, Chairman;
Frank N. Yarwood ; H. R. Lysaght, 0.8. E .;
George J. Sly, LL.D.; Lieut. -Col. T. L. F. Rut-
ledge ; James Kell.
General Manager: C. M. C. Shannon.
Chief Inspector for N.S.W.: W. G. Hull.
HEAD OFFICF, SYDNEY (Corner George and King
Streets).
Branches and Receiving Offices at 158 places in
New South Wales.
BRISBANE (264 Queen Street).
Branches and Receiving Offices at 27 places in
Queensland.
MELBOURNE (325 Collins Street).
ADELAIDE (35 Rundle Street).
PERTH, W.A. (73 St. George’s Terrace).
LONDON (37 Threadneedle Street, E.C.2).
Manager: A. F. Jenkins.
London Directors;
A. Dodds Fairbairn, Alfred Shepherd, James Tuke.
Agents throughout Australia. Tasmania and New
Zealand, and at all the Chief Cities of the World
Every description of Banking Business Transacted.
Bank of New Zealand.
SYDNEY BRANCH:
Corner GEORGE and WYNYARD
STREETS.
Guaranteed Stock .. .. .. £529,988
Preference Shares . . . . .. 1,875,000
Long Term Mortgage Shares .. 374,197
Ordinary Shares .. .. .. 3,750,000
Reserve Fund and Undivided Profits 3,609,655
GRANTS DRAFTS
Great Britain anil Ireland,
on Australia, New
Zealand, Fiji. Samoa,
and other places.
RECEIVES DEPOSITS
periods and transacts all other usual
at interest
for fixed
Banking business.
Australian Mutual
ProvidentSociety
Established
1849.
Head Office:
87 Pitt St., Sydney
The Largest and Most Successful
Mutual Life Office in the British Empire,
Distributes a Cash Bonus Every Year.
Amount Distributed for single year 1926 £2,887 200
Yielding Reversionary Additions to
Policies of over £4,893,000
Accumulated Funds £63,600^000
Annual Income £9,600’000
The Society transacts Every Class of Ordinarv
and Industrial Assurance Business.
H, W. APPERLY, 1* .S.S., General Manager.
If any illustration in “The bulletin’
takes your fancy, write to the
Manager, who will quote you price
Shipping, etc.
CANADA, UNITED STATES,
UNITED KINGDOM
FORTNIGHTLY SAILINGS FROM SYDNEY.
CANADIAN-AUSTRALASIAN ROYAL MAIL LINE.
via Auckland, Suva (Fiji), Honolulu, Victoria and Vancouver.
UNION ROYAL MAIL LINE
via Wellington, Rarotonga, Tahiti and San Francisco.
NIAGARA .... .13,415 tons JULY 28, for Vancouver.
MAKURA .... 8,075 ,, AUG. 11, for San Francisco.
AORANGJ 17,490 ,, AUG. 25, for Vancouver.
TAHITI 7,900 ,, SEP. 8, for San Francisco.
Fast and splen-
didly equipped
steamers using
oil fuel.
Spacious Decks,
Unrivalled
Cuisine.
- -i
rr:.
' *.**
The Scenic
Routes to the
United Kingdom,
via South Sea
Islands, Canada,
United States.
TICKETS TO THE UNITED KINGDOM INTERCHANGEABLE FOR
RETURN BY OTHER LINES.
HONOLULU EXCURSIONS BY AORANGI AND NIAGARA.
UNION STEAM SHIP CO.
/ Union House, 24 7 George Street, Sydney.
\ William Street, Melbourne.
MACDONALD, HAMILTON & CO., Brisbane, Adelaide and Perth.
SOUTH SEA TOURS
Attractive Island Trips, occupying about J/h Weeks.
SIX-WEEKLY SAILINGS FROM SYDNEY TO
New Britain:
S.S. “MONTORO” (5000 tons).
Sails August 13 and September 24.
Solomon Islands:
S.S. “MATARAM” (3500 tons).
Sails August 31 and October 12.
A Delightful Holiday in Island Wonderlands.
For Particulars apply—.
BURNS, PHILP & CO., LTD.,
Sydney, Melbourne, Adelaide and Brisbane.
m
■ W\
m
BURNS, PHILP & CO., LTD.,
Passenger Booking Agents for All Steamship Lines
To
ENGLAND CANADA JAPAN
EUROPE AFRICA CHINA
AMERICA " INDIA JAVA, etc.
At regular passage rates. No extra charge.
Attractive Tour to
NOUMEA, JAVA, HONOLULU, COLOMBO, etc.
VISIT JAVA (The wonderland of the East).
Regular monthly sailings of the s.s. “Marella” ami
m.s. “Malabar” to Java and Singapore via Queensland
ports, Thursday Island, Darwin, etc. Smooth-water trip,
Deck Cabins, interesting ports of call.
APPLY
BURNS, PHILP & COMPANY, LIMITED,
WORLD TOUR and TRAVEL DEPARTMENT.
7 BRIDGE STREET, SYDNEY.
South Africa and England
ABERDEEN LINE
BLUE FUNNEL LINE
WHITE STAR LINE
Joint
Service
A combined service offering unequalled
facilities at moderate rates.
*Ascanius. . . 10,000 tons,
i Demosthenes 11,500 ~
. . . 15,000 ~
fThemistocles 11,500 ~
.. • 18,500 ~
*Ulysses . . . . 15,000
August 1
Sept. 7
Sept. 21
Oet. 10
Oct. 18
Nov. 14
* First class only. fFirst and Third class.
s“Cabin" class only. §Yia Suez Canal.
For full particulars apply to:
Dalgety 8 Co., Ltd. )
Gilchrist, Watt 8 Sanderson, Ltd.J
Joint
Agents
Interstate Telegraphic address: Cable address:
“NALDHAM.” “NALDHAM’ -
Macdonald, Hamilton 8 Co.
247 George Street, Sydney.
Shipping Agents, Merchants, Colliery
Proprietors, Tug and Tighter Owners.
MANAGING AGENTS FOR
Australasian United Steam Navigation Co., Utd.
Fitzroy Estates, Utd.
Blaekheath Collieries, Utd., and Caledonian
Collieries, Utd.
Eastern & Australian Steamship Co., Utd.
AGENTS FOR
British-India S. N. Co., Ltd. P. & O. S. N. Co.
Queensland Line of Steamers. Scottish Shire Line
(Turnbull, Martin & Co.). New Zealand Shipping Co.
Ltd. Canadian-Australasian Royal Mail Line, Sail
Francisco Service (Union S. S. Co.), Union S. S. Co.
of New Zealand, Ltd. Ha in Line. Huddart Parker
Ltd. London Assurance Corporation (Marine). Mel-
bourne Agents for Messageries Maritimes Co. Queens-
land Agents for Sea Insurance Co., Ltd.
BRANCHES at Perth, Fremantle, Adelaide, Port
Adelaide, Melbourne, Suva (Fiji), Brisbane, Mary-
borough, Bundaberg and Bowen.
BANK OF NEW SOUTH WALES.
Established 1817.
PAID-UP CAPITAL
RESERVE FUND
RESERVE LIABILITY
gdf
£6,875,000
4,750,000
6,875,000
£18,500,000
Directors
Thomas Buckland, Esq., President.
The Hon Reginald J. Black, M.1..C.
Charles Binnie, Esq.
James Burns, Esq.
Robert I- Faithful], Esq.,
Robert \Y. Gillespie, Esq.
Franc B. S. Falkiner, Esq.
M.D.
Auditors: W. H. Palmer, Esq.; 8, E. La id ley, Esq. General Manager: OSCAR LINES.
Head Office —George Street, Sydney. London Office—29 Threadneedle Street, E.C. 2.
477 Branches and Agencies in the Australian States, Federal Territory, New Zealand. Fiji, Papua,
Mandated Territory of New Guinea and London. Agents and Correspondents throughout the world.
Cable remittances made to, and drafts drawn on Foreign places DIRECT. Foreign Bills
recrotiated and collected, Letters of Credit Issued, negotiable throughout the world.
Shipping, etc,
Inter-State Steamship
Sailings.
(Passenger Sailings—Circumstances permitting.)
FOR MELBOURNE, ADELAIDE and FREMANTLE
(Transhipping at Melbourne for Geelong and other
Victorian ports; at Adelaide for S.A. Gulf ports;
and at Fremantle for Perth, Bunbury, Geraldton
and North-West Ports).
FOR QUEENSLAND PORTS
(Transhipping at Brisbane for Maryborough, Bunda-
borg and Gladstone, and at Townsville for outsorts).
'‘Brisbane. Mackay (no cargo for Mackay), Townsville
and Cairns.
Huddart Parker L
Magnificent
Fast Passenger
Steam shin 3
STEAMERS TO NEW ZEALAND—ReguIar sailings
from Sydney to New Zealand ports and vice versa.
Particulars to be obtained on application.
STEAMERS TO TASMANIA—From Sydney to Hobart
and vice, versa as per daily papers. Between Mel-
bourne and Launceston as per daily papers.
For full particulars apply HUDDART PARKER LIIVDT3B
to line Street, Melbourne; Bridge Street, Sydney,
P. & O. via THE CAPE
SERVICE.
ONE CI,ASS ONLY.
I'O LONDON', via Durban A: Capetown.
Tons.
BAI.BANAI.D . 13,100
IIABRABOOL . 13,100
BALRABAT .. 13,100
BA BA DIN 10 .. 13,100
BIONDIGO .. 13,100
BELTANA
BENALLA
HONDA
BEIiIUMA
Tons.
11,100
11,100
11,100
11,100
fares, from £37 to £45 to England, and
from £2l to £27 to South Africa.
AGENTS—GILCHRIST. WATT, SANDEItSON.
Tel. 86701-2-3. 5 O'Connell Street, Sydney.
Wills, Gilchrist & Sanderson, Ltd., Brisbane.
John Sanderson & Co., Melbourne.
Geo. Wills & Co., Ltd., Adelaide.
THE
UNITED
INSURANCE
COMPANY Ltd.
ESTABLISHED 1862.
HEAI) OFFICE:
GEORGE 8 HUNTER STREETS, SYDNEY.
CAPITAL - £1,000,000.
Fire insurances
i
Marine Risks
5 effected on ail classes ot
■ Buildings, Stocks, Furni-
ture, &c. Rents also assured.
on Wool, Merchandise,
Hulls of Vessels, Freights,
Passage Money, etc.
Accident and Other Insurances
of various classes.
The “I'liited” in tin Australian institution.
A. C. Dawson, Sec. H. E. Robinson, Gen. Manager.
HOTEL
METROPOLE,
SYDNEY.
Opposite Union Club and Two Minutes
from Entrance to Domain and Circular
Quay.
TARIFF from 18/6 per (lay, or apart-
ments may be secured separately by the
day from 6/0 and upwards. Cards of Tariff
and all particulars posted on application
to The Manager.
Keep hopping and hoping if you wish
to succeed — think of
SCHUTE,
BELL&Cuo.
If you have
Wool & Skins
to Sell.
Personal Attention.
Officer: 44 Bridge Street, Sydney.
V
“THE WOMAN’S MIRROR.”
TRICE 3d.
Contains everything a woman needs to know.


d> Icjin
The Watchword
for Elegance
and Efficiency
The Timepiece for all Time
It is curious to think that the one
thing in the world which is most
mechanical in its action, and
most practical in purpose, should
be also the most beautiful in design.
Wafer-like, durable, artistic, and,
above all, accurate, the Elgin is
indeed a Timepiece for all time.
OBTAINABLE AT ALL LEADING JEWELLERS
ELGIN
u
A.
to
THIS TRADE MARK
gd
IN THE WATCH CASE
m
Hi
l
Assist your
motor with
Weed Tyre Chains
WHAT good is a powerful motor in your car if
the wheels slip, skid or spin? It is helpless—
but give it a fair chance.
Put Weed Tyre Chains on your tyres. They grip on
wet, muddy, sandy or snow covered roads as rubber
tyres alone never could. By their use every turn of
your motor is transmitted into actual mileage and
your journey is made free from delays and possible
accident.
Weed Tyre Chains are easy to put on and remove—
and they are easy to identify. Look for their brass
plated hardened steel cross chains, galvanized side
chains and red lever locking connecting hooks with
the name “Weed” plainly stamped on them.
Made for all pleasure car, truck, or bus tyres in
Regular or De Luxe patterns; Order from your
dealer.
AMERICAN CHAIN COMPANY. Inc.
New York, N. Y., U. S. A.
Weed de Lux*
Pattern
Foremost in quality for more than 20 years 332
WEED TYRE CHAINS
It s So
Go
\
■
----- :
W/*m i
£4WUj cUuj/
‘T’HE deliciousness of Grape-Nuts is certain
* to win you to this healthful, nourishing
food. Its irresistible appeal to appetite—its
ideally balanced nourishment and its crisp
crunchiness—these are strong reasons why
you should always give Grape-Nuts a daily place on
your table. From wheat and malted barley come the
food elements you need for health and energy; you
have these elements—every one—in Grape-Nuts.
Other Post Products
your grocer sells are
Instant Postum and
Post Toasties. Ask
about them.
Wholesale Agents:
LEWIS & CULL,
316 Pitt Street.
Sydney.
fg
Obtainable
from every
radio dealer
in A u s-
tralia.
Saif P. Ml
ana ifou saij
FI M .
ure Xmusic
Your radio dealer won’t have a fit.
He’ll just aslc you, or, if you wish,
advise you what type to use and
bring you a Mullard P.M. Valve
with the wonderful P.M. Filament.
Every Mullard P.M. Filament is built on
the rock bottom foundation of mechanical
strength, low current consumption, gen-
erous emission surface. There is a P.M.
Valve to suit every holder in your set,
but there is only one filament —
THE
For 2-volt accumulator
P.M.-l H.F 0.1 amp. 18/0
P.M.-l L.F 0.1 amp. 18 6
P.M.-la (Resist Cap.) 0.1 amp. 13/6
P.M.-2 (Power) 0.15 amp. 13/6
For U-volt accumulator or 8 dry cells
P.M.-3 (General Purpose) 0.1 amp. 13/6
P.M.-3a (Resist Cap.) 0.1 amp. 13/6
P.M.-4 (Power) 0.1 amp. 13/6
For Ji-volt accumulator or 3 dry cells
p.M.-5 (General Purpose) 0.1 amp. 13/6
P.M.-5b (Res. Capacity) 0.1 amp. 13/6
P.M.-6 (Power) 0.1 amp. 13/6
Super power valves for last L.F. stage
P M -254 (4 volts) 0.24 amps. 15/-
p‘m!-256 (6 volts). 0.25 amps. 15/-
All Mullard Valves are made at the Mullard Works,
Balham, London, England.
Mullard
THE-MASTER,* VALVE
Mullard P.M. Valves are British Made. ARKS- 6.A.
BUY BRITISH.
Advt. The Milliard Wireless Service Co., Ltd.,
Milliard House. Denmark St., London, W.C., Eng.


all MEN AGREE that
Shaving Soap
7Jhe JVezo c
Q>licA
IS THE BEST
Here is a new idea in Shaving Soap—another Rexona triumph
one this time which will be appreciated by men wherever beards grow.
Rexona Shaving Soap contains the same oils and essences which
have made Rexona famous the world over, and is made on the Rexona
formula and thus makes a Shaving Stick which is a soap and lotion
combined. It makes* for comfort and hygiene in shaving and tempers
the skin against wind and bad weather.
REXONA SHAVING STICK (Medicated) is Rexona Soap specially
treated so as to produce a thick, creamy lather, which will soften the
beard and improve the skin at the same time. It is delicately perfumed
and medicated on the same principles as Rexona, and not only produces
a lasting lather, but purifies and leaves the skin in perfect condition.
Being an antiseptic Medicated Soap, it has a tendency to quickly heal
any cut you may have the misfortune to get, and if troubled with
pimples or blotches of any kind, will daily tend to remove them.
Rexona Shaving Soap, the New Triangular Stick, is sold in pure
aluminium containers at 1/6.
m
cw
A ? ure
riluminium
(^onfainer.
v
RE*
DU C ‘
pR°
Chocolates
m
m
f ' r
■
i
■ ...
V.:'y
' *
■
KKIBii
..
i ‘ "1
111* IIII11* ■ ■ fill! : HH
■Hi
- ;J|!
“/ do like my Daddy—see
what he's brought me home!"
The Famous Red Box of Chocolates.
Mailed to you the day they are made.
Prices:
3/-, 5/6, 6/-, 10/-, 12/6,
20/- and 30/-
Post free to a.nv address in Australia.
UillieA
162-66 PITT STREET.
BRANCHES :
CR. GEORGE AND KING
STREETSj
CASTLEREAGH STREET
(Next Theatre Royal).
SYDNEY.
Send for Catalogue illustrated
with reproductions of our con-
fectionery in colors.
Sea Castles.
[FOR HTE BULLETIN.]
ISAW the shining castles of the sea
Stand for one moment, pale against the
sky,
Where, surging in, the long, green billows
broke,
Trailing behind their gossamer clouds of
smoke,
And broken wreaths of foam were lifted
high.
Clear-cut each tower and roof stood glisten-
ing white,
With pink facades, and glassy, grottoed
walls —
A fair, frail thing built in a breath of space,
With cupolas and leads like frozen lace,
With glimpses of long stairs, and pearl-
hung halls.
1 fancied that 1 saw one moment there,
Looking from windows, greenish, sea-
drowmed eyes—
Mermaids with wet, gold hair and laughing
lips,
Weaving sea-ropes with slender finger-tips,
In patterns that no mortal could devise.
I saiv dead mariners stand at the doors,
With sea-grapes round their necks, and
gaudy weeds,
Drinking from coral cups of strange design
Long, bubbling draughts of green and blue
sea-wine,
Their matted beards all strung with rain-
bow beads.
I heard from out those rooms a music
sweep—
A sound of taut, struck strings and sweet-
toned bells—
Thin-drawn reverberations of the deep,
Like organs played along the edge of sleep,
Chiming behind the tap of twinkling-
shells !
I saw the shining castles of the sea
Stand for a while above the sea’s dark
plain;
Then every roof and little tower was gone,
The arching waves crashed down and hurried
on,
And the unbroken sea lay still again !
VICTORIA.
MYRA MORBIS.
Wessy’s Defection,
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
THE Water Bat paused in his task of
hiiing the lubricator cups of the motor-
boat's engine to tilt an expectant ear
in the direction of the dark heights surround-
ing the bay. Dickie, ever sensitive to her
sweetheart’s mental processes, automatically
cut short her low-voiced chatter. Appa-
rently convinced that he had been mistaken,
the Water Rat resumed the anointment of
the robust-looking power plant.
Dickie regarded him long and wistfully be-
fore she broke the silence: “Spudge, you
know I very seldom ask questions about what
you’re going to do, but give us the strong of
why we’re takin’ this old ssiff outside the
’Eads to-night. You say we’re goin’ to put
him on some passin’ ship, an’ that seems a
funny lurk! Who is it? Go on, Spudge
dear, tell me while we’re waitin’ for the old
prawn.”
The Water Rat grinned. “Well, if it’ll
ease yer mind it’s old Weston what owns
that flash motor-yacht lying up the bay.
Dermestic trouble’s at the root of the stunt.”
Dickie, conforming to the exigencies of
the present adventure, masqueraded as a
inan; but beneath the male garments lurked
the eternal feminine, a fact she betrayed by
an un-masculine wriggle and anticipatory
gasp at the suggestion of scandal. Drawing
inspiration from her expression of rapt
attention, Spudge continued:
“Well, old Weston was poor as a black-
feller’s dog when she got a grapple on ’im
and marriage followed, as the bloke says.
Mrs. Wessy ’ad the oscar—three thousand a
year', they tell me. While she was buyin’
’usbands she thought she’d get the jelly-fish
sort. You’ve seen ’im with that little dog, a
cross between a guinea-pig and a coir-rope
fender, in tow through the park, while the
old tart takes the afternoon doss.”
“Too right I’ve seen ’im.”
“Yes, well she always kept ’im on a ’low-
ance like she kep’ the dog on a silk lanyard.
Then she buys 'im this motor-yacht to play
Avith—an’ keep ’im out of mischief.
“Old ’Umplirey ’ates that dog like cyanide,
but ’e’s gettin’ ’is three scrans a day, a flash
’ome an’ no financial troubles. ’E ain’t ’appy,
though, because ’e dreams of travel; and the
further travel takes ’im from the old gar-
goyle ’e’s tied ’imself to, the better. But it’s
all a idle dream. Then, sudden an’ unex-
pected, some ol’ pot, a relation, pegs out and
leaves ’im a big slug of shares in ferry com-
panies and breweyies! A supple change
comes over Wessy. In ’is mind ’e begins to
surge on the painter and spread ’is wings
for flight, as the bloke says; but, on the
outside, ’e’s still civil, because ’e’s still windy
of the old Avoman, even if ’e is independent
financially. At last ’e decides ’e’ll pinch off;
on ’is own, of course. With the ’elp of a
friend ’e takes out a passport and then ’e
thuds—just as ’e thinks everything’s jake,
the passport mob at the Custom ’Ouse says
’is passport ’as to be backed by a letter
from ’is wife sayin’ that ’e’s ’er ’usband and
’e’s leavin’ the Commonwealth with ’er full
knowledge and consent!”
“Crash, crash!” Dickie interjected sym-
pathetically.
“Well, ’e was so sure she’d not only refuse
but be on the look-out for a scale on ’is
part that ’e don’t even ask ’er for the letter.
Then ’is friend says ’e knows the bloke
Avhat’s takin’ this neAV motor schooner to
the New ’Ebrides as master for the Mission
inob. The friend arranges that they’ll take
old Wessy away on the quiet and dump ’im
in New Caledonia or somewhere, where ’e
can ’op on the Messageries boat for Europe.
They won’t risk takin’ ’im out of the port
under the circs., and that’s where they got
in touch with me.”
“Say, Spudge, ’ow do you come to know
all this about Weston —about ’is family
affairs, I mean?”
“From ’is friend what I made the arrange-
ments with, and —well, from one an’ an-
other.”
“Yes,” Dickie flared. “From that skinny
ginger tart you took to the pitchers. She
worked at Weston’s and’
“Nit!” the Rat snapped. “Someone’s
cornin’ now.”
Accompanied by his friend Weston
appeared on the light jetty to which the
launch was moored. He was a-prance with
nervous excitement.
“I would come out a*ud see you aboard the
schooner,” the friend declared, "but I’m a
vile sailor and wouldn’t recover for a week.”
Having seen Weston aboard the launch he
claimed to have an engagement elsewhere;
so, wringing the tremulous hand of the refu-
gee, and wishing him improbable felicities,
lie took himself off up the jetty.
“All my luggage, except this small bag,
has been put aboard the schooner,” Weston
informed the Rat. “I suppose we can be
moving at onceV”
"Yes,” the Rat agreed. “It’s after eight
now. We better mizzle off.”
The Rat was priming the engine, prepara-
tory to cranking, when he was arrested by
the alarmed voice of Weston, projected down
the companion-slide.
“For Heaven’s sake, come up, Fickley!”
Spudge abandoned the engine in response
to the note of terror in his passenger's voice.
The sound of a woman’s voice thick with
anger, and obviously approaching along the
jetty, assailed his ears.
“Man alive, it’s my wife!” Weston whis-
pered in a voice laden with dread. “What
shall I do? Quick!”
“If you’d only lm’ let me get the engine
started we’d ha’ pushed off,” the Rat lam-
ented. “It's too late now. I’ll ’ave to
negotiate.”
Rushing Weston forward, he propelled the
terrified little man through a hatch into the
gloom of the small fore-peak, and threw his
bag after him. “Stay there quiet and trust
yourself to me,” the Rat whispered hoarsely
into the opaque void, wliere the bewildered
Weston groped confusedly amid cordage and
ground-tackle.
The lady, voluble and belligerent, had
gained the launch’s deck with the aid of a
male companion’s pocket-torch, almost simul-
taneously with the closing of the fore-peak.
“Is your name Fickley?” she demanded of
the watchful Rat.
“What’s that got to do with you, lady?
“This man with me is a detective; perhaps
you will tell him!”
The detective stepped forward.
"We believe that you are trying to evade
the law by helping to smuggle this lady’s
husband out of the country. Don’t try any
funny business, because we’ve got you where
we want you.”
The Rat turned to Mrs. Weston. There
was bitterness in his voice when he spoke.
“You ain't got the right oil, lady, exactly.
The dirty little squib, your ’usband, did
engage me to take ’im down to the ’Eads,
but ’e twisted; and that perishin’ Mularky
took ’im off in 'is launch 10 minutes ago, at
’arf the price I was to get. Me an’ my
mate ’ere ’as been chewin the string about
it, and makin’ up our minds to buzz off ome.”
Apparently inspired by a rare idea, he
struck an attitude depicting constructive
thought, under the spotlight of the detective's
torch. . ,
“Tell yer what I’ll do,” he burst out impul-
sively. “Me and my mate ’as been chiselled
out of this job. WTiy not make it worth
my while to run you down to the ’Eads —you
and this gent. It’s your only chance oi
catcliin’ ’im, because I know the ship e will
sail in. You could go and ring a police
launch, but the loss of time would beat you
out of it. It’ll give me a chance to make a
tenner —I’ll do it for that —and 111 be squaie
with ’im for scalin’ me. A cheque or lOU
will do if you ain't got the oscar on you.
If you are goin’, you better make up your
mind soon, before it’s too late.”
“It’s not a bad suggestion, Mrs. Weston,
the detective admitted. He held brief council
with the abandoned wife, and the Rat’s pro-
posal was adopted.
While Dickie ushered Mrs. W eston into
the comparative warmth of the small cabin
aft the Rat dropped below and started the
engine. As he regained the deck he called
to the detective: “Mind jumpin’ on to the
jetty. Mister, and castin’ off that line i W e 11
’ave to get a move on to catch 'em.”
With the detective groping his way to the
ietty end of the line, the Rat slipped his end
overside and let in the clutch. So quickly
was the other marooned that Mrs. Weston,
her hearing dimmed by the motor noises, was
unconscious of the diminishing shouts of nei
impotently cursing companion from police
headquarters.
As the launch cleared the bay, the Rat
handed the wheel to Dickie, and, making att,
thrust his head through the cabin slide.
“Just make yourself easy, Mrs. Weston,
he said. “We’re all stayin’ up ’ere so s you 1
be nice and private. You might as well
keep out of the cold air till there’s somethin
doin’; I’ll let you know when there is.
Rejoining Dickie at the wheel, he lit cigar-
ettes for both. The passengers below decks
would have been astonished to see the Rat
throw an arm about his mate’s shoulder
and implant a resounding kiss somewhere
beneath the peak of the mate’s cap.
“There’s fog cornin’, Dickie,” he observed,
after an interval.
“Oh, Spudge, what’ll we do?”
“As long as the schooner makes the ’Eads
by ten, without bein’ delayed _ by the fog,
easy, we’re jake. By the time that D.
reaches a ’phone, and gets a Water Police
launch after us. we’ll ’ave a good start,
and the fog cornin’ on will choke them off.
Though the Signalmaster, on the morrow,
would report the sea that night as being
“smooth,” two people, at least, would em-
phatically disagree with him. The joggle
resulting from the back-lash from the cliffs
was sufficient to keep the launch moving
with sponsons awash as she lay waiting for
the schooner. The man in the peak and his
wife in the cabin were growing momentarily
more unhappy. Each in turn had voiced
to the Rat a desire to return to an element
which they unanimously, though separately,
resolved never to leave again.
(Continued on next page.)'


The Breatheable Remedy for
COUGHS, COLDS,
& BRONCHITIS.
Hilton' 1 "" lllllr
/
//
Csf
\(%
z\
cb
PEPS fumes are breathed through (11
the nasal cavity (2) mouth, carried
over the tongue (3) into the throat (4)
whence they pass down the windpipe
(5) into the lungs, Liquid inixtu-res
simply go down the gullet (6) tnt«
the stomach.
r T'HE only safe and effective method
of treating Coughs, Colds, Sore
Throat and Bronchitis is to take Peps,
the breatheable medicine that goes
direct to the root of the trouble in the
bronchial tubes and lungs.
jpEPS owe their remarkable
potency to certain volatile
chest-strengthening medicines
which are concentrated in
handy tablet form.
When you remove the silver
wrapping and let a Peps tablet
slowly dissolve in the mouth,
powerful healing and germicidal
fumes are given off. These Peps
medicinal fumes are (as the
above diagram shows) carried
with the breath down the
throat and bronchials deep into
the lungs and not simply into
the stomach where liquid medi-
cine goes.
Peps clear, disinfect and
strengthen the entire respiratory
tract, and destroy mischievous
germs. They heal sore, inflamed
membrane, quickly dispel the
symptoms of coughs, colds and
bronchial trouble and help to
avert threatening complications.
Peps contain no laudanum,
chloral or other dangerous
drugs. Peps have solved the
problem of treating throat and
bronchial ailments in a safe,
direct and rational way.
Peps are as indispensable to
the traveller, theatre-goer and
schoolchild as they are to
patient and nurse in the sick
room.
Dr. GORDON STABLES,
M.D., CM., says: “Peps are ex-
ceptionally suited for the treat-
ment of Bronchial ailments,
owing to their direct influence
on the membranes of the
bronchi and their freedom from
laudanum, chloral and other
risky narcotics.”
df
THE HANDY TABLET MEDICINE
PEPS are recognised as the safest and best home
treatment for coughs, colds, catarrh, bronchitis ,
wheeziness, bronchial asthma, sore throat, laryngitis,
influenza and infectious throat troubles . Peps are
obtainable of chemists everywhere; family size, 3f-.
1/6
Box
“ ’Ave a bit o’ guts,” the Rat urged the
pallid Weston. “Soon as you’re on the
schooner’s deck you'll be jackerloo.”
The fog, slight up to now, was thickening.
Distant foghorns set up their apprehensive
brayings. Suddenly one close at hand sent
the Rat pelting below to start the engine,
while Dickie applied herself vigorously to
the bellows of their own raucous hooter.
A red eye appeared out of the murk, and
a 100-ton motor-schooner loomed out of the
vapor. An exchange of hails brought the
slowly-moving vessel to a standstill with a
maelstrom boiling under her counter from
the reversed propeller.
“Good work, I’d say,” the Rat told Dickie,
“if I didn't know ’e found me by accident.”
A line was passed from the schooner, and
made fast at a point on the launch’s bow
calculated to assist Dickie, at the wheel, to
keep the smaller craft sheering off, and
leaving a safety zone of water between the
two. From over the schooner's rail the long
arm of a cargo spar reached out, and from
the end thereof, like a huge, legless spider,
a coal-basket slid to the deck of the launch.
The Rat assisted Weston to the deck.
“Jump in ’ere with me,” he commanded
brusquely. Then, turning his face to the
schooner: “’Dave up, Mr. Mate.” The
basket, snatched as by ,1 strong, unseen
hand, shot up and in over the schooner’s
bulwarks.
Dickie, intent on her delicate task at the
wheel, was startled by the sudden appear-
ance of Mrs. Weston at her side. “What
is going on, my man?” she asked in a voice
which, though sapped of much of its pug-
nacity, was fraught with suspicion.
“Don’t talk to me now, missus. If I let
this launch bump that schooner she’ll start
leakin’, and me and you’ll ’ave to swim.
If you want to know anything, ask Spudge.”
“Spudge? Pickley, you mean, I suppose.
Has lie gone on board the ship here? And
Detective Nally—he has gone on board, too,
I”
“Stand by, Dickie —coinin’ down. Lower
—easy — lower!”
The coal-basket hit the deck with a caney
creak and spewed the Rat at the women's
feet.
“That you, Mrs. Weston? Good-o! I
told you I’d bring you and the old man
face to face. I just been aboard the schooner
and seen ’im. ’Op into this basket; it’s
the only safe way.”
Mrs. Weston hesitated at sight of the
means of transfer to the schooner. It was
probably the promise of the comparative
steadiness of the larger vessel’s deck against
the endless oscillations of the launch, as
much as the desire to confront her husband,
that decided her to enter the basket. Again
the basket rocketed up to the schooner’s
deck, leaving Dickie alone.
Twenty minutes elapsed before Spudge
again hailed her: “Cornin’ down, Dick!”
The descending basket, laden with Spudge
and Weston, disgorged the little man, the
Rat returning for the lady. Again, and yet
again, the basket made "the round trip for
Mr. Weston’s baggage. The engine-room
telegraph on the schooner clanged in strident
staccato as the Rat cast off the connecting
line. A few indifferent farewells were ex-
changed, and the schooner slipped off on
her voyage to seas where fogs are not, while
the launch swung about, to grope her way
back to the placid waters of the Harbor.
Dickie, handing the wheel and the respon-
sibility thereof over to the Rat, crept aft
to squint a curious glance at the occupants
of the cabin. Through the slide she could
see Weston on the side bench, sitting erect
and gazing into space. On his shoulder
rested the weary head of the wife of his
none-too-enthusiastic bosom.
Dawn was near at hand when the Rat,
whose instinct for direction amounted almost
to a sixth sense, brought the launch into
Watson’s Bay, where the errant ones were
able to hire a car to take them home.
Beyond directing the Rat regarding the dis-
posal of the baggage, they departed, thank-
fully and in silence, their arms linked.
“Might as well drop the pick about ’ere
somewhere, and make a cup of coffee on
the old primus,” the Rat Suggested. “Then
we can take a rest till the fog lifts.”
As they sat down to the hot brew and
some biscuits. Dickie dragged off the tweed
cap which had served to conceal her feminine
features throughout the night, and shook
out a shock of. red-brown hair, in the man-
ner of the charlady drying her mop. Her
unfatigued smile was a blend of admiration
for the prowess of her sweetheart and antici-
pation of the narrative he would unfold.
“I ’ad to smile,” the Rat began. “Soon
as she give ’im one look I see the towel
come hurtlin’ through the air. ’E looks
like a naughty kid and, in addition, ’e’s
not feelin’ too clever in the stomach. Then,
when ’e gets a eyeful of the schooner’s
accommodation, ’is mind, what there is of
it, is made up, and ’e decides to go back
to the poodle. ‘You can take me back,
* Pickley,’ ’e says.
“ ‘Yes,’ I says, ‘for a ten-pound note. I’ve
earned the twenty quid I contracted to bring
you out ’ere for. The missus ’ere ’as a
return ticket; but not you.’ ’E comes down
to the water's edge at once and agrees.”
“Good boy. Spudge,” Dickie commented.
‘Twenty quid for bringin’ old Wessy out;
ten for bringin’ ’is missus, and another ten
to bring im back. That’ll leave thirtv-five,
after payin’ old Jeuks for the use of the
launch.”
‘ There was one little ’itch in the pro-
ceedin’s,” the Rat continued casually. “I
says, ‘Before I take either of you off. do
yous understand.' I says, ‘there’s a Water
Police launch lookin’ for me at the present
moment?' Mrs. Wessy wakes up to the fact
that Detective Nally ain’t in our midst. I
tells ’er that pimp’s safe ashore; but never
mind 'im —it’s me I'm worried about. ‘Now’
I says, ‘l’ll be pinched for takin’ Mr. Weston
to sea with intent to smuggle ’im out of the
country, im not ’avin’ ’is passport indorsed
by is \vif<\
“Mrs. Wessy wants to know what about
“Must this,’ I says. ‘You sit down in
the main cabin and write a letter of consent
fo your 'usband’s departure from the coun-
try not for 'im, but for me to ’old. Then
if I’m pinched, I can say: ‘This gentle-
man’s passport was in order all the time ’
and I produce the letter to prove it. She
gets snaky and starts to argue the toss,
but I 'ad give the skipper the wink and
squared ’ini to say ’e wouldn’t turn back
to port ou no account. He’d been paid in
advance an’ didn’t want Wessy, anyhow.
Then I tells ’er she can write me that letter
or go on to the blanky New 'Ebrides; be-
cause / won't take ’er or Wessy back without
it.’’
The Ifat fumbled out a letter and de-
posited it proudly on the small folding-
table.
"You got it! Good boy, Spudge! They
can't pinch you now, can they?”
The ltat regarded her in amazement.
"You don’t believe that yarn, Dickie?”
“Why, what's the idea, then?”
“Don’t you tumble that one of two months
more with the poodle is as much as I give
old Wessy before ’e starts wanderlust! a’
again?
“A little bird is then goiu’ to whisper in
his pearly pink that a saloon passage on
a 20,000-ton Orient liner’s a different pro-
position to a trip in a dirty little Island
schooner. The little bird won’t forget to
point out that ’is passport is already fixed
and all in order, except for a certain docu-
ment marked ‘Exhibit A,’ as the prosecutin’
constable says, which I now produce.”
He frowned impressively across at Dickie
as he patted the letter on the table.
“This scrap of paper, little lady,” he
declared with emphasis, “is what we business
men would call a negocherable asset!”
R. S. ADAMS.
Little Chinatown.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
WHEN Ah Fat asked the Judge for a
divorce from his wife he explained
that life with her was “Row, row—
altogether Hell!” It is true enough that,
owing to row-row-altogether-Hell amongst
the different tongs and secret societies, their
separation and residence in different parts
of Sydney came about.
That branch of Chinatown which lies
around the Municipal Markets —Dixon-street,
Little Day-street, Harbor-street and others
—of necessity must have its people handy
to their jobs. Long before daylight they
are on to it, mostly dealing in vegetables
and fruit. It is impossible to say how many
of the sons of Han are connected directly
and indirectly with the vast business of these
markets, but their number is very great.
Some of the big Chinese lirms have a long
roll of employees. Amongst them are agents,
buyers and sellers, laborers, onion-peelers
(the squads of them engaged in this work
never seem to have tears running out of
their eyes ' either); lorry-drivers and what-
not. One jostles them in the markets, col-
lides with them around the numerous street
corners and wonders at what errand they
are on as they shuffle mysteriously up alley-
ways or slip into dilapidated, window-shut-
tered cribs.
In this area are cookshops, Chinese news-
paper offices, grocery and butchery establish-
ments, “allee same European.” The restau-
rants don’t look inviting to the white man,
whose education has been sadly neglected ill
the matter of long soup and chop suey
(which, by the way, isn’t a Chinese dish, but
American) ; but if you know the ropes yoii
can get real China tea, without milk or
sugar, and little white cakes lined with a
jam that looks moi‘e like tar than fruit
pulp, but is very pleasing to the taste.
Everything here is spotlessly clean.
The Chinaman is a good eater, and he can
put away his drop of liquor, too. After the
back of the business is broken in the morn-
ings at the markets there is a constant
stream into the adjacent hotels. White men
and yellow men drink together, some of the
white men being in the employ of the saffron
man who is doing the “shouting.” John
appears to have no particular fancy in the
way of tipple. He can, and does, swing his
lialf-tankard of beer with the best of ’em,
calls for wine (port, nearly always) and
takes his allotted measure of whisky—and
doesn’t “drown the miller.” Amongst these
drinking Chinamen I have seen some of the
newer, flasher young set taking “double-
headers” of whisky; but that is mere swank,
and was probably picked up from flash
Australians.
The new young Chinaman is alert and in-
telligent, fairly well schooled (mostly in
Australian schools), and his work in this
little Chinatown is generally in father’s
oflice. Not a few of them drive their own
motor-cars.
It is the rarest thing to see a Chinese
woman in this quarter. But they are there,
for one observes small children running mes-
sages, or walking sedately hand-in-hand on
their way to school. These children are
always scrupulously tidy and nicely dressed,
with their little black hair-plaits hanging
down their backs, generally one plait over
each shoulder.
One vision vouchsafed me in a narrow
street of this little Chinatown was a Chinese
flapper, jazz-garter and all. She was a most
attractive girl, one that any lad might leave
his home for. Perhaps that is why her
middle-aged Dad was with her. At times
he wasn’t exactly with her, but behind her,
for that single-file progress of the Chinese
takes a lot of forgetting.
By accident I found myself inside one
of the dingy cribs. It was night time, and a
guttering candle made weird mis-shapen shad-
ows leap fantastically upon the walls and low
ceiling. A huddled Chinaman sat on the floor,
rocking himself to and fro. But what im-
pressed me most were two cheap-colored
prints hanging precariously on one of the
walls. One represented the Saviour and
the other the Madonna and Child.
The John Chinaman of this locality takes
an interest in politics—at least, some of
him does, r made the acquaintance of one.
I asked him what he thought of Mr. Lang
the Premier.
“AVellee goo'," he said ; “icellce ni’! Alice
same" He hesitated for a simile.
“Yes?” I urged.
“Allee same Chinaman.”
JOHN BARRR.


\k ff m^fflstMm-M--v 1
L m m .’ -,,...
..“ft-, y-
....
£ s sa®»i ■ «■*
, W. --»wp -:*| _. : #.£
* J ' £- y
*
WESTINGHOUSE
Morse Silent Rocker- Joint
CHAIN DRIVES
Ensure minimum wear —
Maximum life and highest
efficiency.
Chains in stock —wheels manu-
factured to suit requirements.
Write for particulars
and Booklet BM 41 4.
THE WESTINCHOUSE BRAKE CO.
OF AOSTRALASIA LTD.,
Queensland Agents—HOLMES as CHURCH, Brisbane.
N.Z. Office—93-107 Eeatberston Street, Wellington.
Victorian Office—99 Queen Street, MeOwm' 11 ®: „ Adelaide S.A.
South Australian Agents: Messrs. ELDER, SMITH & CO., LID., Aaeuune, a.*.
urpcTf' M C Ufiltt
CONCORD Who 1 , IN. A. WALLA.
=<n>
=*?
==s3(
=*aF
P
2575 <&
i
'<&ZZ//'Z////'y
M+4U.
9^»W?6W*«
rw7r7*ri+Z&Ct&n&L
£S2k T&'**
w«> !*■** «*B *>£*£ >9!% -7« e
SKS&K
£
: i;
"RING LOCK,” THE LOCK THAT WILL NOT SHIFT.
This Fence is made from the finest open hearth galvanised steel, in our own Factory
by Australian Workmen, and is now available for the first time to the Australian F-armer.
The Fence throughout (both Laterals and Droppers) is heavy 10-gauge, thus producing
a stiff stay fence, requiring less posts than usual.
Made for the present in two styles only.
No. 1 An ideal sheep fence, five lines spaced, Sin., Bin., 7in., and Sin. apart, 261 rv.
high. Droppers spaced 12in. apart.
PRICE:—In 5-cliain Rolls, 6/9 per Chain, or £23/10/ per mile
No 2 A fine sheep or cattle fence, six lines spaced Sin., Bin., 7in., Sin., and 10in.
apart, 36in. high. Droppers spaced 12in. apart.
PRICE:—In 5-chain Rolls, 8/3 per chain, or £29/10/ per mil®.
SEND FOR FULLY ILLUSTRATED CATALOGUE. POST FREE.
• SOLE MANUFACTURERS,
D. & W. CHANDLER LTD.
276 to 294 Brunswick St. FITZROY. ’Phone J 4145.
And at
234 to 236 Flinders Lane, MELBOURNE. 'Phone F 4175.
ESTABLISHED 1876.
HARBOR TOURIST TRIPS
Weather and other circumstances permitting.
From Fort MacqnaMe at 10.15 a.m. and 2.15 p.m.
EVERY TUESDAY AND EVERY THURSDAY.
Fares: All-day, 2/6; Half-day. 1/6. Children, 1/- and 6d
Luncheon by reservation at Clifton Gardens Hotel. Afternoon Tea on Board.
SPECIAL TRIP EVERY SUNDAY „t3 P .m.f,„m No. 6 JETTY, CIRCULAR QUAY
Adults, 1/6. Children, 6d. . ,
Tels.: 86276 (4 lines). Sydney Ferries, Ltd.
If any illustration in “THE BULLETIN” takes your fancy, write
to the MANAGER, who will quote you price for the original.
16 H P 6 -Cy/.-
e SUNBEA\f
A WONDERFUL specification at a moderate price. A powerful
smooth-running engine. Four speed, right-hand, gate-change
gear-box. Smooth operating four wheel brakes.. A chassis
designed for strength without an ounce of superfluous weight. Long,
cantilever rear springs with shock absorbers for the maximum of
comfort. Coachwork roomy, comfortable.and exclusive in the refine-
ment of its line. Specially constructed for arduous conditions, having
a minimum ground clearance of 10 inches.
Radiator designed with sufficient capacity and a fan to ensure efficient
cooling in tropical heat. Write for full particulars to: —
AUTHORISED DEALERS.
THE ALL BRITISH MOTOR CO. PTY., LTD., 111-113 Russell Street, Melbourne.
WILLIAMS, HILL & CAMERON, LTD., 205-207 Castlereag'h Street, .Sydney.
AUSTRAL MOTORS, LTD., Corner Hay and Pier Streets, Perthand Queen Victoria
Street, Fremantle.
RASCH MOTORS, LTD., CO Waymouth Street, Adelaide.
MANUFACTURERS:
THE SUNBEAM MOTOR CAR CO., LTD.,
Wolverhampton, England.
SPECIAL EXPORT DEPARTMENT:
12 Princes Street, Hanover Square, London, W.l.
Cables: “SUBEAMOCO,” London.
OTHER MODELS.
20 and 25 h.p. 6-cylinder with open or closed coachwork.
ALL SUNBEAM OVERSEAS MODELS ARE BUILT WITH CORRECT TRACK AND
NECESSARY GROUND CLEARANCE.
Every woman
knovfs I
She cannot
Look her best
When out of sorts
Beauty is more
Than skin deep
It depends on
A healthy stomach
Good digestion
Pure blood
If these are wrong
Health suffers
So does beauty
BEECHAM’S PILLS
Will put you right
They bring back
The bloom of health*
V >;L
m
'
■ i
'
: N
af&'i " . felm I
nfl|
Worth a Guinea a Box.
Sold in Boxes, 1/- and 2/6* i
Get
the
best
value
for
your
money
Buy
\\
z
I
WOLSEY
PURE WOOL UNDERWEAR.
Made by WOLSEY LTD., LEICESTER, ENGLAND
WOLSEY LTD.,
316, Flinders Lane, Melbourne.
e 3
0
o
&
0°
6)
(V 9
f
. ■'
■ ••' »*» “ 6 Vl£»"
■;«■>’ W


f ST' n
/STILL GOGS
/ STILL COiH
STILL i#Oil#
/STILL CO!?!.
I STILL COIN’
s«'ii ru'^N
:Sl n' L> Sv'- L\-> L\' v > l
: G''N V L § $ L v OR $ L
: S L\- \v RsT Lt v L
• V\N' $ S N n vN\' .xx'X <;
/ fct tiLOGOth
.! <£'\x'-'$ * < v sS\\ A\S X;.
/ $ yyy wOm-
-4 srrii i co§
T >0 s :\\ \\v L.L w v x
.4850 v^
Riss4 §SR '"s OR G ''R N ' $ $ s n <v- -\v s^nv
*CTxL V & * L L WOI fH W Hy
ORN 1820
lORN 1820
lORN 1820
lORN 1820
lORN 1820
\\x s- > -XV N\x'- <NSX' X' J- X xxxx* xS^
ORN 1820 STILL GOING .$
ORN 1820 STILL 00INJ
ORN 1820 STILL GOT
ORN 1820 SSSLLiL
ORN 1820- STI>
ORN 1820
ORN 182^
ORN
ORN
lORN H
ORN li
ORN li
ORN 18!
ORN 18!
ORN IB2i
ORN 1820 v _
ORN 1820 STILL GOING STRONG
U'
GR
SIS?
.x'\' ,XV
MS
• V \* N v \
ORN 1820 STILL 00!HS STRONG
ORN 1820 STILL GOl NCI STRONG
ORN 1820 STILL GOING STRONG
ORN 1820 ILL CO IMG STRONG
ORN 1820 STILL GOING STRONG
ORN 1820 STILL GOING STRONG
ORN 1820 STILL GOING STRONG
ORN 1820 STILL GOING STRONG
ORN 1820 STILL GOING STRONG
ORN 1820 ST ILL STRONG
ORN 1820 STILL GOING STROMA
SSS5^5w*S2%
%sks&s@&&*
Tg *Tp M
ft
lORN lB2OpJT H ?
lORN 1820
lORN 1820
lORN 1820
lORN 1820
1820
10
“''-•CTRX.S -*•■
\ wml
tei
JOHNNIE
WAfcKER
Born 1820 " Still going Strong
It’s easy to see why
‘JOHNNIE WALKER’
has the largest sale of
any whisky in the world
