

e
.''V
,-rr
r
M
,y
X:
%
!K y
*2
J%, 3I!m
3K
\A,k
y>X
>.•3
%
A dream come true!
è
The Cin4-Kodalc, Model B,
with which you can ma hr
pour own personal mo ion
pictures as easily as ordinary
snapshots with a Brownie.
Make
your
own,
rmovies/
26~1
SHOW YOUR OWN “MOVIES.”
The Kodascope, Model C,
which shores in your own
home the moving pictures
you have made yourself, to-
gether with commercial sub-
jects from the Kodascope
Library.
é
Imagine making moving pictures as easily as ordinary snapshots—filming your boys and
girls and friends, and 1 hobbies and travels—showing those fascinating pictures in your own
living-room! Isn’t that a real thrill for everyone?
You can make these “movies” with the Cine-Kodak (priced from £l6/16/-) —show them
with the Kodascope (priced from £l7). In addition to showing pictures of your own
making, you can hire pictures from the Kodascope Library—dramas with your favorite
film artists, comics, travel and educational subjects.
Demonstrations given at my time, or write for printed matter.
Of all Kodak Dealers, and
KODAK
(Australasia) PTY. LTD.
379 George Street and
108 Market Street, Sydney.
250-52 Queen Street, Brisbane;
and The Valley.
45 Elizabeth Street, Hobart.
“The Block/* 284 Collins Street,
and 161 Swanston Street,
Melbourne.
37 Rundle Street, Adelaide.
672 Hay Street, Perth.
Ruthven Street, Toowoomba; Flinders Street, Townsville; East Street, Jr _.
“The Kodak Corner,” comer Lambton Quay and Willis Street, Wellington, N.Z.
The Bulletin
Vol. 48.-—No. 2452,
Thursday, February 10, 1927.
Price 6d.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.


THE New Library Catalogue is now
ready and will be forwarded post free, with full
particulars, on application to
DYMOCIv’S BOOK ARCADE, LTD.,
428 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
One pen- One /lifetime
2
*
*
* y
M
svoursnQW'bo
: -;> ' ’ '
What a story his pen could tell! Since
early manhood; joys, sorrows, home and
business life have all been served by this
faithful, efficient recorder—a “Swan.”
Through legal severity and the whim-
sical humour of personal letters it has
slipped easily, speedily, over smooth or
rough surfaces—its point has suited his
handwriting exactly. Its osmi-iridium
tip has never worn out. It has
been his constant companion
for 30 years—and to the
new generation
out in life it
indispensable.
ê
newest <e Swans ” are
ling, from 17/6 upwards
Swan
ë
of Stationers and Jewellers.
MABIEj TODD & CO., LIMITED,
Swan House, 133 & 135 Oxford Street, London, W.i.
Factory : Swan Works, London , N.W.
Accents and Repair Service Depot;
PHIPSON & COMPANY, LTD.,
Broughton House, 181 Clarence Street, SYDNEY.
ē
ĕ
cz>
IN mud, sand, clay —Weed Tyre Chains grip and
hold. They transmit every turn of the motor
into actual mileage. They minimize the danger of
skidding, of costly accidents and annoying delays.
Order from your dealer
AMERICAN CHAIN COMPANY, lac.
New York, N. Y., U. S. A.
Foremost in quality for more than 20 years
ė
ę
2- anc^
' POWDER Jr
5L
rv
S 3
Kills Flies and Insects
Instantly.
Sold everywhere, or forward
2/6 or 1/- in stamps to
Hudson’s Eumenthol
Chemical Co., Ltd.,
SYDNEY.
The Red Page
Norman Angell’s Battle-axe
The Russian Revolution seems fated to be
as universal a literary asset as England's
Industrial Revolution and the French Revolu-
tion. The strange perversity of Art may in
this boundless kingdom give a foreigner pre-
eminence as historian. Already there are
English-speaking men likely to be linked
with the Bolshevik upheaval as revealers and
critics of it. At random I cite Reed, Wil-
liams, Eastman, Ransome, Russell, Keynes,
Brailsford, Shaw, Wells and Angell. In
Must Britain Travel the Moscow Road?
(Noel Douglas) the last-named has made an
appeal to reason as distinguished as his “The
Great Illusion.” Though himself an inter-
nationalist, Angell lids written a work in
which Trotsky is mastered by being answered.
A Red Goliath is vanquished by a pacifist
David. Trotsky’s “Where Is Britain Going?”
has met its Waterloo.
In the arena of social'problems two episto-
lary debates of the post-war period stand
out like giant gums in the sands- of an out-
back creek. The one (1920) was between
Kautsky and Trotsky on Terrorism; the
other, on the methods and merits of Moscow
versus Britain, is contained in the two
books specified. Angell is probably the great-
est of living British pamphleteers, and glori-
ously maintains his prestige here. Trotsky’s
effort is slashingly journalistic rather than
true to his rich dialectic form. Of the two
books Angell’s is the subtler and profounder
in ratiocinative prowess. The issue that is
joined is of grave concern to Australia, since
Britain’s “Whither?” carries in its trail the
future of our Commonwealth.
Trotsky is keeping every country contro-
versially busy. He hux-ls his bolts —one here,
another there —and the rest is mainly rage or
redness. The polemical consequences are
usually a sort of broadcasted d.t.’s, inex-
haustibly ugly and empty. Luckily for
humanity questions in the long run have to
be settled on their merits, for there is no
safety or security in fear. Alarmist as is
“Where Is Bi'itain Going?” neither tumult
nor shouting could allay the alarm: an Angeil
clothed in the apparel of argument was
needed to scatter into flight the devils of dis-
quietude. But it is not alone by strength
of argument that Angell wins the forensic
battle —it is by strength of evidence, too. His
book is positively tremeixdous in its scientific
assembling of the facts, past and present.
You can, of eoui’se, prove all manner of
contradictory things by the facts associated
with the things—and one is bound to men-
tion that in another book. “Towards Social-
ism or Capitalism?” Trotsky from the facts
reaches the opposite conclusion; but in the.
spheres of agriculture, industry, finance,
trade, psychology (this last a lxew and sig-
nificant connective standpoint) Angell piles
up the evidence until it is overwhelming,
thoxxgh here he relies largely but not entirely
on Farbman’s books.
Trotsky had maintained not merely that
“England is heading rapidly toward an era
of great revolutionary upheavals,” but that
no fxxndanxental change in society lias been or
can be achieved save by the force of revolu-
tion, and therefore it is treachery to mislead
the workers along the lines of accepting
evolutionary and non-violent pi’inciples.
Angell answers that a Bolshevik revolution
in Britain would fail, but his chief .conten-
tion is that the Bolshevik Revolution has
not done for Russia what Trotsky claims can
equally be done for Britain by no other
method. Says he :
The policy of establishing Socialism at one stroke,
as opposed to its gradual introduction, has been
abandoned by Russia, although the forces chwMp of
opposing Socialism—that is, the capitalist, bourgeois,
professional, trading and middle-class element!?— were
very much weaker in Russia than thev are in any
Western country, and although met with a complete-
ness of dictatorship and ferocity of terrorism that
could not be duplicated in a Western country. The
political dictatorship and terror failed either to
abolish Capitalism, private - property, production for
profit, private trade, wagery. What is in fact private
property—and private property in land at that—
whatever the system may be called, is more firmlv
tiie basis of the greater part of Russia’s economic
system than ever. The general position now wi 1
reference to capital is not so much that Russia h
given up attempts to terrorise the capitalist, an
forbid interest and production for profit, as that sh
is trying hard to induce the capitalist to apply h
system to the New Russia, and is busy assuring hi
that his interest on his loans and his profits fro
his concession, employing workers to whom wag
may be paid, will be secure.
This is not simply a weighty statement:
is a quite revolutionary statement, beeaus
the crux of it is that Communism has no
been the outcome of the revolution, but tha;
what Russia has produced “is a revolutio
away from Communism,” the country being
compelled by experience to employ the grac-
ualness which Trotsky assails. Angell insist
that civil war, dictatorship, force and al
the rest of the Trotskyan equipment hav
completely failed as the means of getting ric
of Capitalism and introducing Socialism
' ital sections of Angell’s survey contaii
remarkable disclosures and discoveries of
new era in Russia distinguished by “th
emergence of a new peasant mentality.” Th
1R some thing of an omen akin to tha :
of the new rich,” and their challenge to the
English aristocracy. Ownership is being
applied to small holdings. Generally there
is a new fever of self-assertion and acquisi
tiveness Speculation is all the go—“not
simply the result of a rapacious instinct to
get rich, but the outcome of the instinct to
Jlie , eonclusi <>n of the matter is
that the merchant spirit and business men
have absolutely displaced the experimenters.
fnn i f fi 1 l ian t P a S es there is abundant
food for thought. The chapter headed “Why
Western Revolution Is Futile” teems witii
challenge and consolation. There is, paren-
ll!y > fial comfort for the reactionary
s< oker in Angell s presentation of “the pro-
m relation to “Britain’s difficulties.”
m reference to Trotsky’s tteories,
to . me , to make a Marxian reel
Iron rw a b 111 facc wlie n lle reviews
£i D r"!""?' Mmd vcrm « Belly, what
Ik! cdjed. “the social myth.” and flings
origin h,rt o ni sms p r vcr like this: “Not
oceu P atl °n determines the psj*cho-
J°gy of any given class” He makes an
effective debating hit by mentioning that no-
where in “Where Is Britain Going?” does
Trotsky refer to Russia’s New Economic
Policy; he gives a philosophical nut to crack
when he declares of America’s change in the
standard of the workers that in 5o years
“an economic revolution” has been effected
which “has not been the result of a political
revolution.” (A Trotskyan thesis is that
the last must precede the first. 1
You see why Angell’s book is uncommonly
important? Perhaps of no fundamental pur-
port to those outside the circles interested in
social reconstruction, it does matter to all to
know that a change in economic systems or
forms of government can be brought about
without a bloody and wasteful saturnalia.
The timeliness and the distinction of
Angell’s work is that against a dazzling anta-
gonist and scintillating polemic it re-estab-
lishes on its throne the Sanity of Reason and
proves that on the road to Freedom there is
no sure success other than by constructive
steps in logical sequence—that, indeed, there
is no beneficially sound and lasting way to
betterment but gradualness, or the slow and
basal adaptability of mind and morals ere-'
ative of environment as well as responsive
to it. To Angell the human element is not
static and unchangeable but malleable and
progressive, which is quintessentially why he
is Trotsky’s conqueror.
R. S. ROSS..
Fighting at Sea
If you scratch a writer on military sub-
jects the odds are that an army officer will
come to light; but among the critics of
the sister service, among the welter of
Pollens, Hurds and Filson Youngs, it is next
to impossible to find anyone with a practical
knowledge, or indeed with any knowledge at
all, of sea-wax’fare. Bacon, the admiral, is
an exception, but he was goaded into author-
ship by, Filson Young and the vice hasn’t
yet become a habit.
The reason probably is that military
actions and shore warfare in general are
fairly easily understood, because they are
more or less stationary performances, whose
subsequent narration can be followed with
comparative ease by the layman. Plain
mis-statements and deductions will be obvi-
ous even to the untrained reader after the
action is over. With the naval critic it is
different, because in addition to all the
strategic and tactical conditions with which
the soldier has to compete, the naval man and
the inevitable naval critic have to super-
impose the fact that the whole battlefield
is changing its geographical position at a
speed of anything from 20 to 30 knots. And
the opposing fleets may be altering their
relative positions at 40 to GO knots, i.e., 45£
to GBI land miles per hour. Add to this the
fact that an admiral is operating with ships
displacing up to 30,000 or more tons which
taae quite a long time to move on to a new
course, whereas the soldier only has to say
“Right turn” and the thing is done. The
direction of advance of an army can be
changed in a twinkling; that of a battlefleet
may take 20 minutes or more, and once a
battlefleet starts altering course it is com-
mitted to its new direction for longer than
an admiral likes to think about if the new
direction should afterwards prove to 'be
wrong. It will take perhaps half an hour
to undo a mistake which a general can cor-
rect in half a second. Hence the naval ex-
pert, who sees that the use of a certain
amount of nautical jargon mixed up with
general statements will impress editors and
publishers—which it evidently does—and
enhance his own reputation—which it also
does—because editor, publisher and public
accept such a one’s conclusions through sheer
inability to follow his arguments.
One would have thought that Bacon's
“Scandal of Jutland” would have silenced
these gentry, but that is not so, H. W.
Wilson having now perpetrated a book called
Battleships in_ Action (Sampson Low), the
object of which seems to be to label the
Battle of Jutland as a German victory “on
points”—whatever that may mean —rand to
castigate Jellicoe at the expense of Beatty.
This writer says that the British battle-
cruisers under Beatty “acted on the prin-
ciple that rapidity was of the utmost im-
portance,” and inferentially the writer seems
to applaud him for having so acted. What
“rapidity” means in this connection is not
quite plain—except that it is always a good
idea to get a battle over quickly so that one
ican get dressed for dinner. However that may
be, Wilson doesn’t seem to realise that the
most important duties of a battle-cruiser
squadron are to sight the enemy’s battle-
fleet, note its composition, course, formation,
eta, and report to the battle-fleet com-
mander. Battle-cruisers are built with
heavy guns, high speed and comparatively
light armor, so that they can penetrate the
enemy’s scouting lines by scaring light
cruisers out of the way, and avoid action
with the enemy’s battleships, whom their
armor doesn’t permit them to fight. But
sighting and reporting are not sufficient;
the battle-cruiser admiral must keep the
enemy battle-fleet actually in right. The
vagaries of navigation demand this. A
military aeroplane sighting something of
interest on land can signal back 'Enemy in
square PX7,” and he need not bother any
more because “PX7” doesn’t move. But
it sea all the battle-cruiser can do is to say
‘The enemy is 10 miles south-east of me.”
lecause there is- no fixed point like a tree
>r a church-spire from which to measure,
■’lleh a message would be all right if the
memy didn’t alter his course, and the battle-
leet knew (1) its own position absolutely
iccurately and (2) the battle-cruiser’s posi-
lon. It is exactly like the blind hole
n a golf course. One puts a caddy (or a
mttle-eruiser) on the rise where he can
ee the hole, and give the player, or the
attle-fleet, its direction.
Beatty made his first mistake by engaging
he German battleships at all, and he made
is second mistake by losing sight of them,
i that when he sighted Jellicoe he couldn’t
yv where the Germans were and Jellicoe
(Continued on page 5.)


e
è
Value and Service are assured
at ANTHONY HORDERNS’
Motorists’ Needs
L
W
ST
JT7T
Motor Fitted Cases.
Suit Case Style, for 4 or 6 persons, size
214 x 144 x 6 in., contains Stainless
Knives, Forks, Spoons, White Enamel
Cups and Plates, 2 quart-size Vacuum
Flasks, 2 N.P. Food Tins. Washable
lining—
Covered Black Enamel Duck —
4 persons, Price .... £9/10/-
6 persons, Price .... £lO/17/6
Covered Solid Cowhide—
-4 persons, Price .... £lO/17/6
6 persons, Price .... £ll/17/6
ASE |
Motor Case.
A suit case in appearance, this novelty
develops into an efficient outdoor dining
outfit. The T'able Case, folded (see small
inset), measures 24 xl6 x 4 inches. It
contains four camp-stools of wood and
steel, with Pegamoid leather seats, also
Sandwich Tin, 12 x 8 x 3 inches. The
case, when opened, forms a sturdy table
24 x 32 inches. It has nickel-plated angle
shields, and is covered with Pegamoid
leather. The four telescopic legs are of
stamped angular steel. The whole outfit
is finished in hard-wearing black. *7£/
Price ■ • • "
S!fe»
k n
J %ri ' i
»»
<0
V\
It-
-- -V. «
Jj —- - ».
The Elysian Settee Hammock.
Strongly made from Striped Canvas, with a
diamond mesh spring mattress and overlay
mattress with valance. There are two square
cushions, a pocket receptacle, and adjustable
canopy. Back can be lowered to any angle,
or level with bed. Tripods are of green
enamelled steel £ 1 Q/1 A/
Price, complete XIJ/ 1 v//“
Without Canopy and Tripod, Price £B/17/6
White Sewing Machines
: iO i
S.M. 67, White Sewing Machine, a four-
drawer Automatic Drophead of the straight
design, made of Polished American Oak.
The drawers are enclosed in casement.
Mounted on short, neat, ribbon-type stand,
with ball-bearing wheel and Pitman. (Note
—The roominess of stand makes it c* \
easily dusted.) Vibrator. Price. . oC I<3
Rotary. Price £l4
Distinctive Furniture
a
-e
The Tennyesse Bedroom Suite (as illus-
trated), made of selected Queensland
Maple. Suite comprises 5 ft. wardrobe, of
which two-thirds are devoted to hanging
space and hat shelf, one-third fitted with
sliding trays and shelves. Full-length oval
bevelled mirror centre, and two handsomely
quartered panelled outer doors. Dressing
table, 3ft. 9in., has four drawers and large
oval bevelled mirror. Bed-
side cupboard, 2Oin., en suite. eXTrOj 1 v|"
The Maryland Bedroom Suite
(Made of Selected Queensland Maple).
Comprises 5 ft. wardrobe, 2 1 deep, with
two-thirds hanging space and one-third slid-
ing trays; lined with Californian Redwood
shaped quartered panels, with fretted orna-
ments below, is shown on either side of a
large bevelled mirror. The 3ft. 6in. dressing-
table has a wide landscape mirror and four
drawers. Bedside cupboard AH\\ A|
is fitted with drawer. Price XT I j lUj"
Cutlery, Attractive and Inexpensive
James Dixon and Sons’ Spoons and Forks. Every spoon and
fork hand burnished, the design being the “Old English’’ pattern.
Stainless Table Cutlery, made by the
famous makers Wade and .Butcher,
specially ground by instructions for
Anthony Horderns’
(With Round Xylonite Handles.)
Table Knives, Price, half doz., 15/-
Dessert Knives, Price, half doz., 12/6
(With Square Xylonite Handles.)
Table Knives, Price, half doz., 14/-
Dessert Knives, Price, half doz., 12/-
Burn’s Patent Serrated Edge
Knives. —Box containing Bread
Knife, Slicing Knife and Grape Fruit
Knife in Stainless Steel with White
Xylonite Handles. Their utility will
prove their worth. An excellent
value. Set of three, Price . . 22/0
Bread Knife, with Cocobolo Handle,
made of reliable carbon steel.
Price
Smaller Size
2/11
2/6
Cool, Sparkling Drinks made in a minute. A Sparklet Syphon
will make a quart of Soda Water for a trifling cost compared
with the other kind you buy. Realise the great convenience and
economy of one in your home.
With a Sparklet Syphon and Bulbs you convert
ordinary cold water into delicious sparkling drinks
at any moment, at home or anywhere. Simply
unscrew the Syphon Head, till the bottle to the
line with cold water, replace the Head, screw down
a Sparklet Bulb—and shake. The process is com-
pleted in a few seconds —and you can fill and
charge the same Syphon over and over again as
often as needed. #
Sparklet Syphons, quart size, Price .... .10/6
Pint Size, Price ; • 8 / c
Sparklet Bulbs, quart size, box of 12, Price, 3/9
Pint size, box of 12, Price 2/6
Seltzogenes, French make —
5-pint size, Price 30/-
8-pint size, Price 35/9
(Complete with fittings and measure.)
Ingredients, Specially Imported for charging
Seltzogenes.
Tartaric Acid Crystals, per lib. box, Price, 1/3
Bi-Carbonate of Soda, per lib. Price. ... 4}£d.
mm
ANTHONY HORDERN Sons Limited,
G.P.O. Box 2712 C.
BRICKFIELD HILL. SYDNEY.
Telephone: City 9440.


&SSBS
ml
m
SSS*
WmM&zm
wmSmm*
wm
wmm
■
i%>s
mm
mm
m
xm
w&
mm
W&s.
ills
2?sg&
m
m
m
m
3S§S
m
■ i-m
-v’:
£3?Sft
i£S
SfeMi
FIRST COST IS ONE
THING-OLTIMATE
COST IS ANOTHER!
Exide first costs are
now as low as inferior
batteries.
Their ultimate cost, by
reason of long-life and
freedom from repair bills,
always was lower. Now
it is MUCH lower.
Extoe
THE
LONG-LIFE
BATTERY
eSSP
I
§s
■
■■Ml IBlt
SB SS
m
vv-h^* 1 !'
Hif
1 H 1
ilSl
Ippll
lltl
H
mm
&
m
Australian Distributors.
N. S. WALES: Gibson, Battle & Co., Ltd., Hunt
Street, off Wentworth Avenue, Sydney.
QUEENSLAND: Exide” Battery Service (Q.) t
Ltd., 472-474 Queen Street, Brisbane.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA: Unbehaun & Johnstone,
Ltd., Rosina Street, Adelaide.
WEST AUSTRALIA: Unbehaun & Johnstone
(W.A.), Ltd., Radio House, 308-387 Murray
Street, Perth,
VICTORIA: A. P. Sutherland, Queen’s Bridge (2
Maffra Street), South Melbourne,
New Zealand Distributors:
Hope, Gibbons, Ltd., Wellington, Auckland and
Christchurch,


fy/i 1 )/- & £lO/10/- Art Silk Lined
READY-TO-WBARS
Now £9 Less io °/ 0
Our Regular Ready-to-wear Sac Suits tailored
from high-grade Worsteds and Tweeds on
traditional English lines. Made by David
Jones’. All Art. Silk lined—the lining that
wears just as long as the suit does. Usually
£9/15/ - and £ lO/10/-. Sale Price, fy/-/~
Less 2/- in the £ for Cash
David Jones’ Sale
i lfU ] t 0 fill d them all over again. And there
was a discrepancy, which was no ones fault,
of 15 miles between Beatty’s and JeHicoe s
calculations of their own positions Wilson
blames Jellicoe for waiting for definite
information,” which is absolute*
both before deployment and for that last
minute alteration of course which may p
you between the enemy and the sun or vice
versa —an extremely important and possib y
Pa WiTs o on nt go f es C on’'to make the extraordinary
statement that “a system of tactics which
demands the enemy’s exact course and posi-
tion before taking up battle formation is
not fit for the conditions of a great fleet
action. It ignores realities of battle. -this
is one of those general statements that sound
terrifically wise and get books like this pub-
lished, but I venture to say that no naval
critic has ever written such nonsense, lhe
whole of naval strategy is devoted towards
one end and one only, and that is to learn the
exact position and course of the enemy as
long as possible before sighting lnm. Battle-
cruisers and light cruisers are thrown out
ahead of a battle-fleet for the sole purpose
of ascertaining that information regarding
the enemy battle-fleet and preventing the
latter’s scouts from getting the same informa-
ion about you. This is the only tactical
advantage that one battle-fleet can gam over
another as a result of naval strategy, yet
Jellicoe’s latest critic says it ignores the
realities of battle!”
Wilson has other facts all wrong, too; as,
for example, where lie says that the battle-
cruisers were “handicapped by bad light.
Tli'e battle-cruisers! enjoyed full visibility
during their part of the action. It was not till
just before the battle-fleets met that the mist
settled down.
Anyhow, the German fleet scuttled home a
disorganised and badly-damaged rabble and
they weren’t game to try conclusions again.
If that is a German victory “on points Mr.
Wilson is welcome to his verdict.
X. N. O.
Surgery and Medicine
In May, 1665, the Great Plague, incubated
in the crowded and insanitary quarter or
St. Giles, swept through the streets of
London, and in six months claimed 100,UOO
lives —nearly a fifth of the city’s population
—not sparing rank, sex or age. To English
readers the authoritative historical record
of the visitation is by Defoe. There is,
however, an extensive bibliography on the
subject, giving a connected account of its
spread from the East in the earlier part ot
the fourteenth century along the main com-
mercial arteries of India, Persia and Russia
into Europe. The gist of these records has
now been compiled by Johannes Mohl under
the title, The Black Death, a Chronicle of
the Plague (Allen and Unwin). Inciden-
tally, the work contains much interesting
information on the curative methods of the
allied professions of surgery and medicine m
those days.
“On the whole,” says the author, the
physicians were quite helpless in the face
of the plague. The most eminent among
them confessed it frankly.” For the most
part they restricted themselves to defensive
or prophylactic measures, and for the rest
fell back upon the spiritual resources of the
Church. It was agreed in the face of pro-
fessional ignorance that the most efficacious
preventive means was the fear of God, “for
by this the venomous astral arrows may be
averted.” To-day, thanks to the achieve-
ments of Yersin and Koch, the bacteriolo-
gical character of the plague has been estab-
lished. “In a little anonymous primer for
the doctors of the period,” says the author,
“we find that it was the first duty of the
physician on entering the house to ask the
relations of the patient if lie had confessed
and received the holy sacrament, as upon
this, in the first instance, his salvation
depended,” it being held that most frequently
the sickness was the consequence of sins.
If by any chance —and chance appeared to
have been the dominant factor—the physi-
cian attained a cure he was immediately
deprived of any personal merit in the case,
the recovery being attributed to the inter-
cession of the saints or the prayers of the
priests. If, on the other hand, the attempted
cure was a failure, he was regarded as
responsible for the death of the patient,
through lack of trust in the divine power.
Among the people physicians were not, on
the whole, popular. They thought more
healing virtue was to be found among
alchemists and magicians untrammelled by
the fCliurcli. Anatomy was in its infancy,
but some dissections had been made on the
Continent which led to the reported dis-
covery of a small boil in the vicinity of
the heart. This so-called “boil” was said
to be filled with poison, and the medical
science of the day attributed the miserable
death of young and old to its toxic effect
on the blood. It is related that in this year
of gloom one Henrico Sayer, throwing aside
all the fantastic tricks and trappings with
which the general practitioner of the day
invested himself when entering a plague-
house, fearlessly attended all patients, daily
administering their medicines, and with his
own hands binding up their boils, plague
glands and spots, thus saving the lives of
many. Indiscreetly he went to bed with a
noble lord suffering from the epidemic, and,
having saved many, was unable to save him-
self. In the course of this physician’s prac-
tice he took no other means of self-preser-
vation than a long draught of good strong
wine before entering the houses of the
infected.
It was about this time that a Jesuit Father
on the Continent announced that he had
solved the mystery of the plague. “The
plague,” he announced, “is nothing but a
multitude of small animals and diminutive
worms which fly about in the air, and when
drawn into the body by the action of breath-
ing, vitiate the blood, impair the spirits and
finally gnaw into the flesh and glands.” The
cure he proposed was that of lighting large
and flaming fires, by means of which the
wings, feet or probosces of the animalculse
would be burnt off so that they could no
longer fly and menace the health of the
people. An opinion very prevalent was that
the air became stiff in times of plague, and
that it was necessary to set it in motion
artificially, and thus break it up. To do
this bells were rung and cannons and fire-
arms discharged. Many people had little
birds flying about their rooms so that they
might absorb the poison and keep the air
in motion. As spiders were considered speci-
ally endowed with powers of poison absorp-
tion, they were encouraged to spin their webs
in the homes of the afflicted. Flocks of oxen
and cows were also driven through the
streets so that their breath might improve
the atmosphere. It was even thought that
the infected air might be beneficially changed
by stinks, and billygoats were kept for this
purpose in living apartments and bedrooms.
Some of the cures recommended by quacks
and even prescribed by physicians are too
filthy to mention. Amulets, heart-bags,
spells, dried toads and other weird means
of protection were not only sold by quacks
but prescribed by physicians. One of the
most successful cures was a surgical opera-
tion in which the boils were cut open and
burnt out with hot irons. On the medical
side the boils of the dead were cut out,
dried, powdered and given to the sick as a
preventive medicine. A feeble attempt to
isolate the infected was made by marking-
all houses containing plague cases by a red
cross. Essences and aromatic oils expressed
from various herbs were used as prevent-
ives, and homes were fumigated by the
smoke from various leaves, berries and
woods.
How slowly the physician and the surgeon
progressed is illustrated by an article writ-
ten by the late Sir Frederick Treves. Only
50 years ago quite mediaeval methods were
still in use in British hospitals. A dis-
located limb, for example, was reduced by
compound pulleys worked by man-haulage.
In the operating theatre a fire was kept
constantly burning to heat the searing irons
for arresting the flow of blood under the
surgeon’s knife. In the wards of the .hos-
pital sepsis was “the prevailing condition.”
It was considered finicking to be clean. “The
surgeon operated in a slaughter-house-sug-
gesting frock-coat of black cloth. It was
stiff with the blood and the filth of years.”
The wounds of the unfortunates who lay
in these institutions were dressed with a
kind of cotton waste —“It would probably
now be discarded by a motor mechanic as
being too dirty for a car.” A whole ward
would be decimated by hospital gangrene.
In terms of surgical and medical progress
the past 50 years represent an advance
far in excess of anything attained during
the preceding five centuries.
T. C.
On Certain Non-Existents
The inhabitants of Fairyland are afflicted
with a new craze that has fastened on them
like jazz. It is the cult of those mythical
non-existents known to them as Yewman
Beans. “There was, for example, the extra-
ordinary vogue of a pantomime piece, in-
vented by a certain Berry, about a fairy
who grew up and died —manifest absurdity.
There was a scene in which the fairy walks
down the street to business wearing a bowler
hat and carrying an umbrella.... quoted as
the crowning example of his gossamer fancy,
his tender and whimsical humor. ‘Berry
at his best’.... The hero, although visited
by a creature called the Doctor, and forced
to swallow a large dose of Scotch Emotion,
dies in great agony. This death scene was
considered to be a triumph of comic acting.”
The extract is from Gerald Bullett’s very
delightful “Mr. Godly Beside Himself,” a
fantasy in which fairies get back a few on
many a Yewman Bean who has sinned in
his conception of them.
No childhood is complete without fairies.
“Yes, of course,” is the natural receptive
response of infancy to stories of delicate
romance and enchantment. All about our
first four years
the elf-flutes are blowing,
The shining-eyed folk from the hillside are flowing,
In the moonshine the wild-apple blossoms are snow-
ing,
And louder and louder where white dews arg falling
The far-away Bugles of Dreamland are calling.
But criticism and questions soon arise. The
child has a merciless pounce on discrepan-
cies, demanding explanations and reconcile-
ments from the hapless narrator, who finds
himself ensnared in a tangled web indeed.
Considering there are absolutely no such
things as elves or fays, it is surprising what
a divergence of opinion exists as to what
they are like. Ever since the beginning of
tale-telling and song-making, there have been
hundreds of contradictory traits ascribed to
the diversity of creatures who share the
name of Fairies. Small and ethereal they
usually are, yet they range from one who
quenches his thirst with “a pure seed-pearl
of infant dew” to the lady who “came riding
down by the Eildon Tree” on a horse large
enough to carry True Thomas behind her.
Sliakspeare makes them any size or kind
to suit his purpose. Puck is a mischievous
goblin; Ariel a lovely spirit. The Fairy
Queen, when she is Mab, is
In shape no bigger than an agate stone
On the forefinger of an alderman.
When she is Titania she is large enough
to nurse Bottom’s ass-head on her lap. But
then Sliakspeare is Sliakspeare (unless he
is Bacon), and can do what he pleases.
Some are friendly and ministering, others
are spiteful, if not malevolent. Perhaps the
most charming fairy ever sketched is the
little gentlewoman in. Rose Fyleman’s “A
Fairy Went a-Marketing.” At the far end
of the scale are the imps who inspired the
naive old prayer:
From Choulies and Ghoosties,
Long-leggity beasties,
And Things that go Bump in the night,
Good Lord deliver us!
The egotism of mankind has not hesitated
to bind fairy fate with mortal, and to
ascribe to these non-human creatures a
human origin. When Noyes writes of a
dead fairy, he is sentimental enough :
She was born of the greeting
Of two lovers meeting;
They parted, and so she must die !
But Barrie is saccharine: “When the first
baby laughed for the first time, its laugh
broke into a thousand pieces, and they all
went skipping about, and that was the
beginning of fairies.” How would warrior
Oberon or Sir Huon or fearsome Morgan le
Fay retaliate on such a biographer? They
will probably, in his own words, mischief
him severely.
Modern so-called Fairy Literature includes
almost any fanciful invention from the
pretty little fays of nursery songs to the great
vague nature spirits, more or less hostile to
man, of Algernon Blackwood’s nebulous
studies. In between are mermaids, gnomes,
Fiona McLeod’s mournful little hybrid Moon-
child, the bargaining animals of Goblin Mar-
ket, Macbeth’s witches, banshees, kelpies,
sirens, even La Belle Dame sans Mercy.
Their kidnapping propensities are vari-
ously manifested. Young men were beguiled
through passion. Babies were changed in
their cradles. Yeats’s Stolen Child was ex-
quisitively persuaded. Bonnie Kilmeny gaed
up the gl'en only to hear the yorlin sing.
No one knows how Mary Rose was rapt
away. “They stole little Bridget” with child-
like candor. There is a misty creepiness
about Anna Grace and her girl-mates who
dance among the rowans and the old white-
tnorn, until, numb and blind with dread.
They hear the silky footsteps of the silent fairy
crowd
Like a river in the air gliding round.
Nor scream can any raise, nor prayer can any say,
But wild, wild the terror of the speechless three;
For they feel fair Anna Grace drawn silently away—
By whom, they dare not look to see.
Fairyland may be gently beautiful; as sweet
as Heaven. But it was no paradise where
the Queen of Fair Elfland bore Thomas the
Rhymer.
It was mirk, mirk night, there was nae star light
And they waded through red blude to the knee;
For all the blude that’s shed on earth
Runs through the springs of that eountrie.
It is a strange, uncertain realm where we
have doomed the Little Folk to wander, grey
with moonshine, or wavering in many-hued
reflected gleams. Here j;he Queen, deliciously
minute, holds court in a violet. Here, in the
likeness of a mortal woman, she captivates
a wandering poet. Here, the King, “now
so old and grey lie’s nigh lost his wits,” is
Going up with music
On cold starry nights
To sup with the Queen
Of the gay Northern Lights.
Here he leads a host to battle, mounted on
a mouse. Here watches the tender Elf of
Hans Andersen, broken-hearted over the
sorrow of humanity: and here also watches
Puck, who says: “Lord, what fools these
mortals be!”
The more modern writers take dreadful
liberties. Gerald Bullett turns his fairies
into politicians, with parties; and Gilbert
has given us a Fairy Queen, as only Gil-
bert’s impudence could dare, suffering from
embonpoint. Is it the growth of scepticism,
the security of unbelief, that kindles this
audacity in human irreverence? We had
better be careful. After all Borrowing
from old Charles Kingsley, we may word
the warning: “Never say that fairies do not
exist until you have seen them not existing;
which is a very different thing from not see-
ing them exist.”
ELSIE COLE.
A Satchel of Books
The Hand and Disease, by Noel Jaquin (Cecil
Palmer). “Nature,” the author says, “has supplied
us, in the markings found on the human hand, with a
sure guide to health. This knowledge may assist
in leading us to Nature’s methods for the treat-
ment of disease.” - If any reader is prepared to
swallow the assumption that mental conditions pro-
duce diseases and the diseases are <My r eg lE *ered
on the palm of his hand—whether crossed by silver
or not—he may as well bolt the rest of the meal
here provided for Him.
Bed and Breakfast , by Coralie Hobson (John Lane).
This is a book of red-haned sirens and young things
with amorous green eyes, moving in an atmosphe
of stale scents and staler morals. Worth nothing.
Caedmon’s Gift and Other Verses by Mrs. Cecil
Perry (E A. Vidler, Melb.). Simple, commonplace
verses, innocuous and naive. She attempts to rewrite
the Hinemoa legend, but the intention is better than
the performance.
The Bay and Padie Book , by Furnley Maurice
(Endacott, Melb.). The third edition of this humoi-
ous book of children—for fathers and mothers and
especially aunts —with 11 additional poems, st 1
remains as whimsical and as well liked.
The Abiding Splendor, by Poppie Tunstall (John
Lane). The story is carried through a conflict
between the attitude of the old aristocracy to its
dependants and that of the modern man of business,
and closes with some highly dramatic scenes, ending
in the husband’s death, leaving his widow tree to
abandon herself to the arms of her lover. An old
theme to a new tune.
Stories and Dramas, by Leon N. Tolstoy (Dent).
After the death of Tolstoy his daughter Alexandra
gave some of his unpublished MSS. to a close per-
sonal friend of the author and his family. The
stories and sketches and the comedy The Con-
taminated Family” contained in this collection were
selected out of a number. Conditions in Russia
making publication there impossible, the volume was
first issued in Paris, and-an English translation fol-
lowed. Tolstoy attached some importance to the
comedy, and in reading it one is surprised at the
author’s advanced views in the early sixties of last
century. “That, wedlock ought to confer full inde-
pendence and liberty upon both of the contracting
parties concerned, and not merely upon one or
them,” must have been rank heresy in the social
creed of the Russia of those days.
Memoirs of Simpson Newland (Preeee, Adelaide';.
In 1838 the Rev. Ridgway William Newland, with
his wife and family of eight children, and accom-
panied by a number of artisans and laborers,
embarked from England on a sailing ship of about
400 tons, and after a voyage of six months landed
in the following year .at Holdfast Bay (now Glenelg).
Ultimately they settled at Encounter Bay. With
much labor .a clearing was made in the timber that
fringed the coast, and tents were pitched. Bullocks
and stores travelled overland from the tiny capital
of Adelaide, rough huts were built and rudely fur-
nished. The parson, his men and his children set
about clearing some land and planting a crop. The
settlers had brought implements of culture adapted
to the conditions of the old land. Many of these
had to be discarded and sturdier substitutes took
their place. That was the starting point, and the
memoirs then carry the reader on through the
vicissitudes that were the lot of the earlier white
inhabitants of the new land. The writer tells Ins
story in simple language that the facts make graphic.
As the years passed and young Newland grew to
manhood he was possessed by the spirit of adventure
and made his wav under almost overwhelming
difficulties 700 miles into the Darling River
country. There he became one of the early and
successful pastoralists who have done so much to
develop Australia. Simpson Newland from his earliest
days on the land had been impressed by the great
potentialities of the river Murray as a water high-
way to the interior, and in his maturer life devdted
much time to advocating its development. He saw
in our one great river a tremendous asset in irri-
gating our waterless lands. This and the construc-
tion of a transcontinental railway from Port Augusta
to Darwin made up the vital interests of his latter
days. These memoirs, to which Langdon Bonython
appends a foreword, are a fine record of the siplendid
material in the men who laid the foundations of
our nation.


m
t
ft
rfL /
0*
t
i
\
M
\
&
fa.
Ta
%
a
\
V
ft
X
tfy[
In an airy open car •
Family discussions as to the advisability
of choosing between an open and an
enclosed car find a happy solution in the
Studebaker Duplex. It is the car which
suits all tastes, since it isTWcars in Owe.
On fine days it is an airy open car; on
stormy days it is a cosy, enclosed car.
All you have to do is pull down the
blinds—a matter of thirty seconds.
STUDEBAKER
DUPLEX
The Studebaker Duplex alone offers the
advantages of two cars at the price and cost
of up-keep of one. It is a car particularly
suited to Australian conditions, where
weather is so variable.
Should a storm arise suddenly, you can
lower the roller side enclosures instantly
without stirring from your seat.
These side enclosures, when not in use, are
concealed in the hood of the car, out of the
way but always there immediately they are
needed.
The Studebaker Duplex advances a body of
beautiful design—long, graceful, dignified—
under which lies the titanic strength of the
famous Studebaker chassis, built as a unit
by Studebaker in Studebaker plants.
When you buy the Studebaker Duplex you
not only provide against the disabilities of
an ordinary, open car, but against repair bills,
for into the Studebaker are built scores of
thousands of miles of excess transportation,
so that the quality which makes this possible
ensures care-free service, however long you
run the car.
Standard Six 5-passenger Duplex Tourer - -- -- -- - £420
120 in. Wheelbase Big Six 5-passenger Duplex Tourer - - - £6lO
127 in. Wheelbase Big Six 7-passenger Duplex Tourer - - - £685
Prices quoted are for delivery at Sydney or similar ports of entry.
For delivery at interior points add cost of transportation from
port of entry to delivery point.
Canada
Australian and Netv Zealand Distributors *
THE STUDEBaKER CORPORATION OF AUSTRALASIA, LTD..
177 Elizabeth Street, Sydney. Branch at Newcastle.
TURNER BROS., 396-400 Swanstou Street, Melbourne.
CYCLE and MOTOR AGENCY (Q.), LTD.. Creek and Adelaide Streets. Brisbane,
THE ARMSTRONG CYCLE & MOTOR AGENCY, Hay Street. Perth.
DUNCAN & FRASER, LTD., 42-48 Franklin Street, Adelaide.
ISLAND MOTORS PROPRIETARY, LTD.. Hobart. Tasmania.
ADAMS, LTD., 152-154 High Street, Christchurch, New Zealand.
WMBI


The
□
□
ES
Adding Machine
L
10
FOR TWELVE
MONTHS TERMS
DISCOUNT
FOR CASH
< JO
■£l
£2
22
22
<§2
22
<2l
532
S 3
■2l
2i
22
i£2
<2
■O.
’W
<2
-£2
<2
■22
Mt-a
£S
ffiwi
XT’.
The Adding Machine for Everybody
Here is the adding machine you have been waiting for—light in weight, dependable,
sturdy yet low in cost. It has all the regular features of the larger adding machines,
including total, sub-total, repeat, non-add, error and non-print keys. It weighs only
i 9 lbs and occupies very little desk space. The Burroughs Portable illustrated above
has an adding and listing capacity of £9,999-19-11%.
Another Portable with a higher capacity
For the office or department handling amounts of large denomination there is f °* er
having the greater adding and listing capacity of £999,999-19-11%. It is priced at £4O, for
or a liberal discount for cash. Mail the attached coupon to-day for further information.
□
ADDING BOOKKEEPING AND CALCULATING MACHINES
IRA
Sydney
Newcastle
Sole Distributors
L. & A. C. BERK
CHALLIS HOUSE, SYDNEY.
’Phone: 8W1517 (Five Lines).
Melbourne Adelaide Brisbane Hobart ■
Rockhampton - Auckland - Dunedin - Christchurch
LTD.
Perth
Wellington
IRA L. & A. C. BERK ITD.
SYDNEY.
Please send me full information on the
Burroughs Portable and its application
to my business.
N ame
Address
Business.
BP 6


■
mi
m
:v;
x : ;
mm
■
11
.
First impressions are lasting
In no business is attractiveness more necessary than
in an hotel or guest-house. The traveller arriving at
night feels welcome when he sees the well-lighted
establishment, for here he knows is a host who caters
well for his guests. His first impression is favorable,
and first impressions are lasting.
Bad lighting is depressing—your guests want comfort,
brightness and gaiety—let them have it, or your
competitors will.
Hundreds of the hotels and guest-houses throughout
Australia are Delco-Light equipped, for Delco-Light
provides an abundance of brilliant electric light,
pumps water, runs electric fans, and with “Frigidaire”
provides efficient and care-free refrigeration.
Delco-Light costs little to buy and to run, and the
satisfaction it gives is great and lasting. There is a
model to suit your needs.
WRITE TO YOUR DISTRIBUTOR FOR BOOKLET B e
Messrs. Warburton, Franki, Ltd 307-11 Kent Street, Sydney
Messrs. Warburton, Franki, Ltd. . . 380-82 Bourke Street, Melbourne
Messrs. Warburton, Franki, Ltd. . 233-35 Elizabeth Street, Brisbane
Messrs. Parsons & Robertson, Ltd Grenfell Street, Adelaide
Messrs. W. F. & E. A. Stewart ............. Launceston, Tasmania
.*' - ,
. -/l A
SMBM
i~.JL
wiwpp
. .. ,jp|s|
DELCO-lIGHT


\
iSP
i
mffi
i
n
i
li
m
u
om
OP
Good Looks,
LongWeap/
Three certainties if you wear Abbey Black
Velour Calf Oxford Shoes.
Close-fitting at ankle and instep, they have
roomy toes that promote comfort. The
uppers are made of supple leather —with
smartly-punched designs where sewn. The
lining is kid and canvas, doubled at the heel.
These shoes need no “breaking-in.” They’re
easy-fitting from the first time on.
Order by Post
Abbey Black Velour Calf Shoes are made
in full and half sizes—each size in three
widths, narrow, medium and wide. It is
easy to ensure a perfect fit. Price 39/6
per pair.
ABBEY
Established over 80 years,
313 George St, and 224 Pitt St,
SYDNEY.
1
Baby’
Chubby Fingers!
Baby’s chubby fingers clutch
eagerly at the feeding bottle
which contains Benger s Food.
Baby thrives upon Benger s,
because it is always prepared
with fresh new milk, and further
Food
enriches the cows’ milk and
adapts it to the delicate digestion
of a child. The prepared food
approximates in its food value
the breast milk of a healthy
mother.
> Send for Benner's Booklet.
BENGER’S FOOD, Ltd, 117, Pitt Street, SYDNEY.
Manufacturers:
BENGER’S FOOD, LTD., MANCHESTER, Eng,
“THE WOMAN’S MIRROR,”
PRICE 3d.
Contains everything a woman needs to know.
RUPTURE IS DANGEROUS.
if
Some things get better of themselves —rupture
gets worse unless properly supported by a proper-
fitting truss.
Denyer’s
Elastic Truss
gives true support with such comfort that after
a while you don’t know it’s on.
Prices: Single, 27/6; Double, 37/6
Postage Extra. If unable to call, full information
sent free in sealed envelope.
DENYER BROS.,
Truss Abdominal Belt and Surgical Instrument Makers,
DEPT. 1, 281 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
Holds More Ink
f v a ■ • i mm®
'//^bayr<<'""\ ;;;;;|
5/% - />JiJJ!'i ' /5 S '. i J (JJ j
-\'":::m - i_T *s?/ v l^
<
C\ /
j rr'A\vf>a , 3^2
? • \V\ |
O \ '/////A
! ' !,f !iK’i2l • l
Safety^
Make Onoto your Pen—lt is a great time-
saver and the best writing instrument it is
possible to obtain, and the fact that it
holds 50 per cent, more ink than any
other self-filling pen has gained for Onoto,
the Pen, the first place.
THOMAS DE LA RUE & CO. LTD.
110 Bunhill Row, London, E.G. 1.
I Representatives: Norman Baker & Longhurst
' 50 York Street, Sydney.
ONOTO INK—Best for all Pens.
Rtidge-Whitworth Moto*cycle
r
The Rudge- Whitworth Patent
Proportional Coupled Brakes are
another important feature. This
device gives maximum stopping
power while reducing the possi-
bility of skidding to an absolute
minimum.
The Interchangeable Wheels for
cutting out roadside troubles; the
system of mechanical lubrication,
the new steering damper and the
improved clutch are other impor-
tant factors, all of which make for
the comfort of the rider.
RUDGE Motor-
cycles are quite
superior and will
reflect your pride
of ownership
SSSSJ?
/
MV'
For full particulars write to the Agent In your territory:—
FLOWER, DAVIES and JOHNSON 404 Murray-street, Perth, W.A.
BEHRENS THIEM CO., 3 Devon House, Chesser-street, Adelaide, S.A.
ROGERS BROS. PTY. LTD., 305 Swanston-street, Melbourne, Vic.
BIDEN and ROBERTS, 150 Hay-street, Sydney, N.S.W.
CANADA CYCLE and MOTOR AGENCY (Queensland), Ltd., Creek-st.,
Brisbane, Queensland.
J BILYARD, 110 Elizabeth-street, Hobart, Tasmania.
CARL MANTACH, 110 Charles-st., Launceston, Tasmania.
Factory Representative: JAMES THORNELL,
Sheffield House, Pitt-street, Sydney, New South Wales.
Rudge-Whitworth Ltd., Rudge Works, Coventry, England.
“Buy ‘BRITISH* and be proud of it.”
If any illustration in “THE BULLETIN” takes your fancy, write
to the MANAGER, who will quote you price for the original.
PUrbfteil
The Cigar of generous size and weight,.
Supreme in flavor and aroma.
At all good hotels and
tobacconists.
6d.
Box prices
10 Cigars, 5/6 (posted 6/-)
25 „ 12/- (posted 12/6)
50 „ 23/- (posted 23/9)
100 „ 45/- (posted 46/- )
Sampler Box, containing 2 Cigars,
1/- Post Free. ,
i
II
a
i
i
a
i
CRAIG AND ASTKEN
SYDNEY
DISTRIBUTORS FOR
CLUB REIL CIGAR FACTORY
VARIOVS VERSE
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Give Me a Hill.
Give me a hill on a day like this
When grasses dance to the wind’s thin kiss;
Give me a tree beneath which to lie,
Dreamily watching the leaning sky.
Give me a field, deep-ploughed and brown
Beneath the hill, and a road to town
Cobbled and quiet as a Sabbath day;
Give me the solitude of a bay
Shining and blue as forget-me-not-
I could dream wisely in such a spot.
Dreams cannot blossom in house and street
When there is longing in gypsy feet >
For touch of grasses, wind-shaken, free,
And a green hilltop lit by a tree,
And a road leading to a small town,
With cobbled streets wand’ring up and down.
N.S.W.
IVY GIBBS.
Ballade of Pleasant Wishes.
Who loves to be thinking
Of cherry-trees snowing,
Of daylight just blinking
And morning winds blowing,
Of soft rivers flowing,
Be-ringed by the fishes,
Of sleek cattle lowing?
For these are my wishes.
When stars are a-winking,
Who would not be going
Where bright lasses prinking
By mirrors are showing
Gay faces and glowing,
And silken stuff swishes,
Its lustrous folds strowing?
For these are my wishes.
Where glasses are clinking
And fiddlers bowing,
With laughter and drinking
And heeling and toeing,
Where deft cooks and knowing,
(Compounding good dishes,
Contentment are sowing?
For these are my wishes.
Envoy.
Crabbed Puritan throwing
Me “tushes” and “pishes,”
I scorn your bestowing,
For these are my wishes.
VICTORIA.
SYD. C.
To-morrow and
Always the grey day’s end, and the fires of
sunset dying,
Ashes piled in the sky, and the last of the
winds crying.
We peddle our songs for pence, and the
sound is a vain sighing.
Always the bitter truth, that words go
swiftly over,
Pass in the dark and are gone, like the last
kiss of a lover,
And we are left alone with the hearts
that we uncover.
Always the broken dream, and the slow rain
falling
Over the grave we dig for the bond of a
lifetime’s thralling.
This is the end of it all—a voice in the night
calling.
M.L.
BEŢIE RIDDELL.
Sleep.
I tiptoed to her bedroom white,
And, shading carefully the light,
The bedclothes all in disarray,
I watched her as she sleeping lay.
In that dim light, in silence hushed,
With dreams her cheeks were faintly flushed,
One arm thrown out, a gesture stilled,
As if her world with joy was filled.
In tired abandon sweet she slept;
Her kisses still on lips she kept;
Her nightgown through its filmy mesh
Was tinted by her glowing flesh.
Deep drowsed in dreams, she lay a-hush,
Seeming all joy to her to crush,
Into her bosom holding tight
Voluptuous the joys of night.
I almost wished that I might break
Her dream and watch her slowly wake..,.
A picture pure without a spot—
My infant child in her white cot.
N.S.W.
ARTHUR H. ADAMS.
Adventure.
Sometime with gold of full ambition
crowned,
Or with achievement laurel-garlanded;
Sometime in deeps of disillusion drowned,
Or waiting for a blow with bended head
Ready; sometime with laughter in the soul,
Sometime the fret of tumult, fear of strife,
Go seeking, gathering, sometime, from the
whole, '
One great adventure, Life.
Clinging about the feet of old Romance,
Ask for a history and find a dream;
Ask for an hour, a heart, a happy chance,
Win to a star —or to a fireside gleam;
So that the height you gain be your delight,
Your candle hold, or set your star above;
But find somewhere, sometime, upon the
height
The heart’s adventure, Love.
A place of quietness to sit at ease
A little while, and that is decent age;
Or if no rest your restless spirit please,
Go softlier upon your pilgrimage,
Hearing more plainly what still wisdom
saitli;
Come softly to the crossroads, silence-
sliod ;
Find, travelling onward through the doors
of death,
The soul’s adventure, God.
W.A.
BTHEL DAVIES.


9
ammmii
U
mm
mm
i,
E
: b m
■■
H|
mm
1
■
.
■
JHiKmx
«p
*■**■
mI : maim
mmm
- ?
mm
■■■
a
■Hi
S;K
m
s
a.
■
m
"". v -
/ ' ' ' :
/z


The Bulletin
Vol. 48—No. 2452.
February 10, 1927.
THE NEW PIED PIPER.
“Although his Government is financially embarrassed, and unions like the A.W.U. complain of serious unemployment, N.S.W. Premier Lang is dragging in a clnld-
endowment scheme estimated to cost £8,000,000 per annum, based on a payment of 5s. per week per child.
ROBBO: ‘Gome on, Billo, foller the crowd!” BILLO: “Gawn! There’s a catch in it!"


The Bulletin
THE NATIONAL AUSTRALIAN NEWSPAPER
“Australia for the White Man.”
I'iinted and published by William Macleod, o
Musgrave and McLeod Streets, Mosman, for Ihe
Bulletin Newspaper Co., Ltd., at the Office of the
Co., *214 George Street, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia.
Meldournf. Office: 154-162 Flinders Street.
London Office: No. 1 Wardour Street (near Picca-
dilly Circus), W.l.
PUBLISHED ONCE A WEEK.
TERMS TO SUBSCRIBERS
(In Advance only).
Ousted to any address in Australasia, weekly:
12 months, £1 )s.; 6 months, 12s. 6d.; 3 months, 7s.
To any address Oveuseas: 12 months, Al 10s.; 6
months, 15s. 6d.; S months, Ss.
Cheques, drafts, etc., which should be crossed, and
all Business Communications to be addressed to the
Manager.
Special Notice.
.4// correspondence to be addressed to Box 2521 8.8.,
C.P.0., Sydney.
Insufficiently stamped letters are liable to be
The contents of this paper are copyright by the
publishers. The right to reproduce or translate any
part of the contents of this number is hereby expressly
reserved by the publishers.
The Editor will carefully read and, where practic-
able, acknowledge in the “Correspondence” column
all contributions submitted, whether in the form of
Political. Social or other Articles, Verse, Short Tales
or Sketches (those dealing with Australian subjects
and not exceeding two columns in length, or, say,
3000 words, are specially acceptable), Paragraphs,
Letters or Newspaper Clippings. All communications
will be regarded as strictly confidential.
Tiie Bulletin will return all unsuitable MS. when
the address is specified and stamps are enclosed. But
no MS. will be returned or preserved unless these
conditions are observed. When MS. is forwarded
without stamps for return it will be understood that
the copy is to be destroyed if not acceptable. Per-
sonal applications for return of MS. cannot receive
attention. Further. The Bulletin desires those
sending MS. to distinctly understand that it is not
responsible for the preservation or transmission of MS.
To Amateurs in Black and White.
Anyone supplying to The Bulletin original
humorous or other topical drawings in line or wash,
of sufficient merit and interest and, adapted for
direct reproduction, or any interesting photograph
illustrative of a current event will be paid for same
on acceptance. Any picture containing a good idea
but unfitted for direct reproduction — i .e., any picture
which has to be re-drawn —will be paid for as a
suggestion only. The conditions under which such
artistic contributions will be received are those
applying to M.B.
To Travellers Abroad.
“The Bulletin's” representative in London is
1,. St. C. Grondona. No. 1 Wardour Street
(near riecadiil.v Circus). W.l. Copies of
“The Bulletin” can he obtained from him or
the bookstall in the Main Hall at Australia
Also from Messrs. Gordon and Gotch, 75-
7<l Farringdon Street, London, E.C.h.; and W. Daw-
son and Sons, Cannon House, Breams Buildings,
London, E.C.h. ; E. T. Hole, Holerth Satire Ser-
vice, Fleet Street, London E.C.; “The British
Australian and New Zealander,” iH-ll Australia
House, Strand, London, W.C.2; F. Algar, 58 Grace-
church Street, London, E.C.3.
South Africa. — The Central News Agency, Cape-
town, Durban and Johannesburg; Dawson and Son,
Capetown and Johannesburg; Havana House, Durban;
Rhodesia News Agency, Salisbury; Benoni News
Agency, Benoni; Handel House, Kimberley: and
Canada. — G. S. Forsyth and Co., HI Hastings
Sheet, Vancouver, B.C.
U.S.A. — Chicago: J. Roland Kay Co., 161 Last
Erie Street, N. Michigan Boulevarde; Post Office
News Co., 33 West Monroe Street, Chicago. New
York: Brentano’s, sth Avenue and 2'ith Street, New
York City: Schultz News Agency. S.E. Corner 6th
Avenue and Jj2nd Street, New York City; Hotaling’s
News Agency, 203 West h Ist Street, New York City.
Washington: Liberty News Co., Seattle, Washington ;
Wheatley News Co., 70// Market Street, San Francisco;
Wallace, The New Orleans News Man. 105 Royal
Street. New Orleans. La.; The Wide World News Stand,
5f,H South Main Street, Los Angeles, Cal.
Egypt. — Jacques. Horn and Co., the Colonial
Book and News Stores. Port Said, Egypt.
Hong Kong. —Brewer and Co., 696 Pedder Street,
Hong Kong. .
China. —Brewer and Co., 31 Nanking Road.
Shanghai, China.
Ceylon. — T. L. De Silva, 39 Chatham Street,
Colombo.
Papua. —Whitten Bros., Samarai and Port Moresby.
Fi.il — A. Barker, Suva; Harry Gardiner, Metropole
Hairdressing Saloon. Suva.
Overseas Advertising Representatives.
London. — L. St. C. Grondona. No. 1 Wardour
Street (near Piccadilly Circus), W. 1.; Gordon and
Gotch, 75-79 Farringdon Street, London, E.C 4.
U.S.A.' — J. Roland Kay Co., 161 East Erie Street,
N. Michigan Boulevarde, Chicago.
Postage Rates.
Single copies of The Bulletin (registered as a
newspaper): — Commonwealth, New Zealand and Fiji:
lttoz., LI. United Kingdom: hoz. to 10oz., lid.; each
additional l/oz.. Id. All Sea Route: 160 z., lid.
British Possessions and U.S.A.: hoz. or part thereof,
Id. Elsewhere, 20z.. Id.
TTuTS&xilletioi.
THURSDAY, FEBRUARY 10, 1927.
PROPOSED NATIONAL STOCK-
TAKING.
“Extravagant borrowing abroad cuts right across
the policy of Protection, and only results in t.ha
importation of more goods. On the present figures
of exports and imports we are running heavily into
debt to the foreign bondholder. A proper economic
balance should be to pay out of exports for all we
import, plus the interest on our overseas borrowings.”
—Customs Minister Pratten.
It is satisfactory to know that the Minister
appreciates the situation, and presumably
his colleagues do likewise. That much being
achieved, there is space for something to be
done, or at least attempted. So far Australia
has dismally failed to become self-supporting
in the direction of what are described as
“secondary products.” Some primary pro-
ducts are very short also. Various reasons
may be assigned. One is that too many men
who should be employed making goods for
export, or to take the place of imports, are
busy on silly and profitless public works, and
too many of them hardly know how to do any
work except public works. Then there are
leaders of unionism who say that the output
of the artisan should be kept down to a mini-
mum, so that the community will be unable to
supply its own requirements, and will conse-
quently persist in the habit of buying abroad
more than it can pay for, and also in the
habit of paying the interest on old loans out
of the proceeds of new ones. To this mys-
terious and besotted end they bitterly oppose
piecework, bonuses, profit-sharing, and every
other device which combines increased earn-
ings with enlarged output. When to all else
are added the cultivation of strikes, stop-work
meetings, 44- and 40-hour movements, and
the slow-going method in general, it is not
surprising that a community with fairly
luxurious and sporting habits and much
given to holiday-making should live in chronic
embarrassment, with a prospect of insolvency
ahead.
* * * *
In addition, though this is a point of very
trivial importance, there survives in the land
a pernicious remnant of Foreign-trade per-
sons and papers, who preach the doctrine of
more imports, and publish bits like this with
amazing gusto: —
We would explain that as exports can only be paid,
for by imports, then to hamper or restrict imports
must likewise hamper and restrict exports.
This dismal hallucination has been walking
the earth for years, and will probably con-
tinue to perambulate for years to come. If
Australia can get nothing in exchange for
its exports save imports, it is obviously no
use trying to sell, say, twenty millions’
worth per annum of our products for gold
or its equivalent, and, instead of importing
the same, proceeding to use it in London
to liquidate the annual bill. This being
impossible, by the belated Foreign-trad a
doctrine, it seems that Australia must just go
on paying interest on old external loans out
of new external loans, so long as the latter
are obtainable, and when they cease to be
obtainable it must do a melancholy burst, and
pay nothing in the f. The Red element in
Labor-unionism, which may prove the com-
manding element one day, deliberately aims
at bankruptcy after the country has bor-
rowed as much as seems reasonably possible.
It craves to follow the example of Moscow,
where its friends repudiated all debts and
confiscated all assets. The hardshell Foreign*
trader doesn’t actually advocate the repudia-
tion of the external debt, but he is distinctly
against making any provision for paying it,
either interest or principal, out of our own
resources. A proposal to do anything with
any part of the goods we ship away except
buy foreign goods with them rouses him to
passion and scorn. Even in a year when
imports amount to £30.000,000 more than
exports will pay for, and when the difference,
together with all the millions due for interest,
is borrowed, the incurable Foreign-trader will
be found in the deadly breach, shouting
hoarsely that the tariff is “prohibitive” and
shuts out everything,
* * # *
The present position is that State revenues
and expenditure are 34 times what they were
at a date early in the century, and loan
expenditure is five or six times what it was.
Thus, the larger the income is the more it
needs, under the present methods, to be sup-
plemented with the proceeds of lOU’s, and
the more alleged “works" are perpetrated
the more are wanted. Wherefore it would
appear that a time is brewing when the
expenditure of lOU money will exceed
that of revenue money, provided the former
is procurable. Laborites as a whole appear
indifferent to the prospect of insolvency.
Even the more moderate of them certainly
suggest nothing either to retard or avert it.
Freetraders of an aggravated brand seem
almost anxious to hasten it, and complain
because more imports are not admitted to
make the disastrously adverse trade balance
more disastrous than it is. Protectionists
like Pratten, being hitched on neither to
Bolshevik nor importing interests, can afford
to recognise the situation, and though recog-
nition goes no great distance it is at least
something. The Minister for Customs went
so far as to mention “a national stock-
taking.” Stocktaking would have a great
deal to recommend it if the idea was to
appoint a commission of financial experts
(not Piddington nor Beeby, nor any of the
amateur gentlemen of the old-politician
species who reported on the grievances of
Westralia), and instruct that intelligent body
to summon as witnesses men of financial
standing, professional financial writers,
statisticians and their kind, but nobody who
wants to instruct the Court re the doctrines
of Henry George or Karl Marx. There,
would be no need to call an army of wit-
nesses and make a life job of the inquiry,
and finish up by the issue of an encyclo-
pedia, but sufficient testimony would be
wanted to supply the intelligent section of
the public with attractive reading and fix
its attention. The questions to be laid before
the Commission might be reduced to two,
though with some latitude for going into
side-issues if the investigators felt so in-
clined: (1) What is likely to happen in the
long run (or possibly in the short or medium
run) to a country (debtor country, of
course) which fails consistently to export
enough, or nearly enough, to pay for its
foreign imports and liquidate its foreign
interest bill? (2) What scheme, or schemes,
or alternative schemes, would the Commis-
sion propose so that exports will cover the
items mentioned, and do so regularly, with,
if possible, a trifle over for sinking fund?
“THE ROMAN PEACE.”
One of the visions ascribed to Mussolini,
the Italian soldier-editor who arrested the
westward march of the Communist spectre,
is that the Roman Empire may be rebuilt,
not in its entirety, for France and England
are probably beyond recovery, but still to
a considerable extent. In its great days, the
Roman power encircled the Mediterranean,
and made excursions along the Atlantic, the
Irish Sea. the Caspian Sea, the Black Sea
and the Red Sea. Being so, long and curly,
this dominion necessarily tended to emacia-
tion in places. Measured from the first
perceptible king to the last visible emperor,
the State had a longer authenticated exist-
ence than any other in history.
■* * * *
Probably it lived longest because it
deserved to live longest. After it lost its
hold, it was a long time before any_part
or corner of the Mediterranean or Black
Sea or the Red Sea was ruled by a Govern-
ment nearly as respectable, and along a con-
siderable stretch of what was once the
Roman coastline the Ministry isn t so
respectable or so progressive even now. Italy
itself sank into the depths _(the Eternal
City once dropped to a population of 500)
and was parcelled out by foreigners and bad
characters till it was a geographical expres-
sion, and not much of that. Barring the
habitable little kingdom of Piedmoqt, it had
all the features of a misconducted gao ,
even in the time of people still living. But
since 1840 the country has undergone a
marvellous re-birth, and if Mussolini or
any other patriot dreams that something may
be done towards the re-birth of the empire
there is no harm in dreaming. The reclama-
tion of the ex-Sultan’s domains in Asia
might be a good starting-point, Greece hav-
ing tried its hand and failed dismally.
* * * *
It is an easy explanation that old Rome
collapsed because its people degenerated, but
the theory may be overdone. When malarial
diseases began to bulk largely in Italy itself
there doubtless was degeneration of a local
sort, but that doesn’t account for everything.
The spread of luxury has roused a storm ot
reprobation, but it is questionable if, apart
from a small class in and around the capi-
tal, people had the means, in an age when
wealth-producing machinery was not yet
invented, wherewith to luxuriate much.
When Seneca went wild in denunciation ot
hot baths, house-warming apparatus and
locks and keys, and Pliny the Elder went
mad concerning the sin of fattening the
cliooky-hen for the table, it seems possible
that the case against the eating, drinking
and wallowing habits of the race was over-
stated. Slavery was a demoralising institu-
tion, but then it demoralised almost every-
body. . *
During the long Roman peace the popu-
lace had pretty well lost the military knack,
while the barbarians had their violence un-
impaired. There had been too much peace
and too little military training. Besides
being fresh and up to date, the barbarians
were too numerous. There is no sufficient
explanation why so many shock-headed and
other savages got into motion within such
short time —Ostrogoths, Visigoths, plain and
fancy Goths, Franks, Burgundians, Vandals.
Lombards and sundries, including the Sax-
ons, Jutes and Angles who poured into
Britain from the east to haggle over the
polite and educated carcase with the Piets
from the north and the Scots from the
west. One theory is that the Devil had
taken a new lease of life. Another is that
the earth tipped up more than usual in its
annual revolutions, and that the heathen
slid down.
* * *
The invaders were Germanic, and in the
main either pagan or Arian. The small
tribe of Franks gave its name to France, as
the small tribe of Angles gave its name to
England, and the career of the typical Frank
king, during the first three centuries which
his race spent in destroying Roman civilisa-
tion and putting back the clock 1000 years,
never lacked interest. As a rule, he was a
polygamist. It was his ambition to unite
the kingdom by disposing of brothers or
other relations, and then to divide it among
his sons at his death. Their ambition was to
dispose of each other, and promote unity
again. A Frank army on the war-path lived
on its own kingdom till it got a chance to
live on the next one, or till it dispersed. In
times of straitened finance it was capable
of plundering churches and selling even
priests as slaves.
* * * *
The air was full of episodes. Two Gothic
princesses married two adjacent Frank king-
lets. One was suffocated in bed by her
husband’s mistress, who was raised to the
throne* and made “an honest woman.”
She afterwards procured the murder of two
kings. The other sister, the famous Brune-
haut, whose husband was one of the mur-
dered kings, reigned long and brilliantly,
and was reputed to have killed off 11 of her
royal relations-by-marriage in the course of
a well-spent life. In the end she fell into
the hands of her relations-by-marriage, and
after three days of torture she was exhibited
to the army, still alive, and then fastened
by the hair to the heels of a horse. Amid
the comic nightmare there is a glimpse of
a Frankish princess who set out with 30
cartloads of dowry, and a noble escort which
lived on the country, for her marriage with
a Gothic king. A report of her father’s
death overtook the caravan, and, having
decided that she had lost her importance, the
noble escort divided her dowry, shunted the
lady into a convent with no reported assets
save what she stood up in. and went home.
One of the Germanic kings burned his son
alive on a charge of conspiracy, and was
considered as taking a reasonable precaution
when he burned his daughter-in-law and his
grandchildren at the same* time. *
It was against this murky background
that the invading Moors and Berbers
shone out as almost desirable folk, and
made a better impression than they
deserved. But beneath all the imported
barbarism, the Romans and Gallo-Romans
survived, and neither their spirit nor their
mental capacity was wholly extinguished.
When the original Frankish bubble burst,
through the dynasty of Clovis mislaying
both its brains and its fighting capacity,
better men began to rule, and France pos-
sibly made greater progress than either Italy
or Spain in gathering up some fragments of
the lost civilisation. Still it can be said
with certainty that the sinkage of the Roman
State was the greatest disaster which the
world experienced in historic times, and it
hasn’t been fully repaired to this day. There
are huge sections of the old Roman Empire
where a new one would be a great improve-
ment on existing conditions, and if Musso-
lini thinks he sees his way to building one
(strictly in the unimproved sections) he is
deserving of moral support.
THE AESTHETIC REVOLUTION.
Tiie outside world had experimented with
almost every form of revolution, including
the agrarian, communistic and Fascist vari-
eties. It remained for Australia to stage the
yEsthetic Revolution. Democracy had paved
the way for it. /Esthetes complained that
giving everyone a vote had not resulted in
making the world safe for beauty. Work-
men, they pointed out, lived in cottages that
by no flight of fancy could be described as
artistic, toiled in factories that were blots
on the landscape, and wore clothes that
were a shock to cultured sensibilities. The
statuary in the public gardens, they declared,
was deplorable.
The first gust of the approaching storm
came from the veteran master Julian
Ashton, who emerged from his retirement
to deliver a passionate harangue, tinged with
his biting humor, to a crowd of art-lovers
in Martin-place, Sydney. Pointing out that
the politicians had not even succeeded in pro-
viding decent and ordered government,
Ashton urged the electors to work for a
government of artists. In a series of whirl-
wind elections, the .Esthetic party swept
the Federal and State polls. By fre-
quent declarations of a fervent love of
art, Mr. Bruce retained the leadership,
but his position was precarious. His spats
were viewed by the extremists of the party
with deep suspicion. It was felt that no
person who persisted in wearing spats could
be genuinely aesthetic, and it was not Ion;'
before he was openly accused of flirting with
the counter-revolutionaries.
But soon more momentous issues thrust
themselves on the public notice. It was
early observed that, far from being agreed
on what constituted art and beauty, the
mstlieticians were as hopelessly divided as
ordinary politicians. Futurists, Vorticists,
Cubists, Expressionists and Dadaists began
to form separate parties, each of which
demanded that those in office should launch
a vigorous campaign to impose its art ideals
on the nation. The first shots were fired
over the policy of the National Gallery,
Melbourne. Under the leadership of the
venerable but adaptable Rupert Bunny,
the Cubists displayed the greatest initiative.
Having secretly acquired rifles and
machine-guns, they insisted that only the
works of Marchand and such primitive anti-
cipations as Uccello should be purchased
under the Felton Bequest; and when their
ultimatum was rejected, marched on the
gallery and seized it, despite the spirited
defence put up by L. Bernard Hall and
bus female students. Mr. Bruce, having
obstinately retained his spats, was flung into
prison, and, after the mockery of a trial,
beheaded.
This event was the signal for a Reign of
Terror. Forming committees of public safety
in every town and village, the Cubists
denounced curves as counter-revolutionary.
Houses with bow windows were destroyed,
and women blest with generous contours
were compelled to hide them. A few artists,
like Charles Wheeler and W. B. Mclnnes.
preferred to go to the guillotine rather than
see nature as a geometrical The
Vandyke beard and moustaches of George
Lambert bit the sawdust for. the same
reason. Canberra being designed with
curves, the building on Euclidean lines of
a new capital in the trigonometrical centre
of the continent was ordered. .
Nevertheless, the Cubist regime was never
firmly established. The attempt to straighten
the streets of Sydney was as melancholy
a fiasco as the attempt to force on the pro-
letariat a rectangular sausage. Cubist senti-
ment was confined to Melbourne. Sydney
remained steadily devoted to curves and
circles. In Queensland a barbarous Dadaist
rebellion flourished. The Dadaists believed
that art should have no meaning, and car-
ried this belief to its logical conclusion by
throwing to the lions in the Zoo those of
its own members who attempted to explain
Dadaism. Except for Adelaide and Perth,
which, owing to their isolation, went on
their way unmolested, the country had
relapsed into anarchy. The wildest rumors
were current. Norman Lindsay, it was
said, had left Springwood (N.S.W.) at the
head of a band of nymphs, fauns, satyrs and
centaurs, and had captured Ivatoomba, whose
inhabitants were being compelled, in the
bitterest winter in living memory, to divest
themselves of their clothes and rush through
the woods with vine leaves in their hair fin
an inordinate number of hours per day.
Morose complaints were heard that, although
the Lindsay aesthetes insisted on staid citi-
zens behaving like the people in their leaders
etchings, they constantly excused themselves
from doing likewise on the score of a cold
or a sick headache. The ,Cubist regime was
further thrown into confusion by a danger
from outside. Europe, America and Maori-
land had combined to suppress the Esthetic
Revolution, which was causing grave uures
in their own art-shows. Invasion threaten-
ing at several points, national safety
demanded the sinking of all artistic diner
ences of opinion in a united front.
The remainder of the history of tin
/Esthetic Revolution is commonplace, a
dictator without the slightest knovyledge 01
art arose. After sweeping the foreign inter-
lopers into the sea, Sullivan
(such was his name) turned his energies
the re-establisliment of normal condition-
While professing profound devotion to beaut
in suitably general terms, he busied bimsei
in rebuilding the drains, which had bee
forgotten by the aesthetes. Complete ar _
tic toleration became once more the law
Though the schools flourished none had pou
tical power. By 1950 affairs were much <_
they had been, and. although Australians
still regarded themselves proudly as sons 01
the Revolution of 1928, the only artist »
the Federal Ministry was an ex-signwriter.
M. G. S.
PLAIN ENGLISH.
Dear Forts.
George Buchanan, reporting on the adm
istrative side of the Australian harbors WjCB
the Federal Government f k 1 ,4 ‘ 1 nJ h spot-
look at. didn’t have much difficulty in sp°
ting mistakes. His report is based on®
principle that harbor charges should not
required to provide more revenuei than
defray working expenses, and inter
and sinking fund where i)ece.ssary-
is a principle that has been forgotten
this country, where ports under
City domination have been converted
taxing-machines. The case of J ar ter
Harbor Trust is typical. I ormed aqu


q ppiitnrv aso to co-ordinate foreshore
control it started with a heavy loan liability
for resumptions. Interest on that indebted-
ness and on subsequent loans for permanent
improvements has been paid each year prin-
cipally out of wharf rates, and these lia\<_.
been pitched'so high that each year nowa-
days there is a nice surplus for J. 1. Bang
t .'put into the State’s ever-greedy purse.
The result is that port charges constitute
a heavy tax on transport, and the handicap
on production is intensified by the fact, sup
ported by much specific evidence m Bucii-
vnan’s report, that Australian wharf laboi
has become less efficient than that m other
parts of the world, though much better paid
and overtime rates have just been increased.
They order these things more sensibly
in Maoriland. In that country the port
authorities manage their own affairs, rate
a harbor district to pay interest on capital ex-
penditure, adjust their harbor rates to defray
working costs only, and spend on improve-
ments or plant sucli surpluses as they happen
to earn. In practice the Australian system
defeats the principle of inter-btate I reetrade.
The Victorian manufacturer or farmer
sending produce to Sydney, or the JN. S.
Wales man exporting to I remantle, pays
in addition to transport charges a virtual
customs tax. It cuts both ways, of course,
since the shipper is mulcted ot taxation at
the port of issue as well as the port ot desti-
nation ; but that only intensifies the restraint-
of-trpde effect . and hampers well-balanced
economic development.
Out of such evils good may eventually
flow. The extremely high charges at the
extremely few ports that serve this continent
constitute a standing argument for - the
establishment of more ports and the decentral-
isation of industry. But to benefit by
blunders is a poor recipe for national pro-
gress, and it would be more sensible to admit
the principle that harbors are part of the
transport system and should be treated on
the same lines. To make them machines tor
the gathering of State revenue is bad for
the ports concerned, bad for the districts
they serve, and bad for the politicians, who
are thus encouraged in the belief that it
doesn’t matter how revenue is gained so long
as it falls into the Government’s coffers.
*
Ships and Sundries.
The register of the world’s deep-sea ship-
ping (steamers of 100 tons gross and sailers
of 100 net and upwards), as distinguished
from canal and river craft, for 1926-27 is
chiefly remarkable by reason of the U.S.
marine slump. Samuel, Australia’s new tliree-
ball uncle, is still easily the second biggest
of the world’s shipowners, though he comes
a long way behind Great Britain, yet he had
583,964 tons less of salt-water craft to his
credit in 1926-27 than he had a year pre-
viously. Seven other countries showed a
decline —Great Britain, the Netherlands, Bel-
gium, France, Spain, Portugal and Chile. Ihe
British decline was the greatest, amounting
to 40,914 tons, which shows that coal strikes
are unhealthy. Sixteen States, including
Greater Britain, which is lumped in as Ihe
Dominions,” showed increases, and some of
them were surprising. This was the list:
Tons of Shipping Acquired During Year.
Italy . . . . 211,969 Jugo-Slavia . . 28.244
Norway •• 161,263 Greece .. 27,066
B. Dominions. . 88,840 Imland .. 21,963
Japan .. 47,810 Denmark .. 21,300
Danzig .. 46.742 Brazil . . 17,666
Germany .. 37,203 Argentina .. 12,059
Sweden .. 36,963 Turkey . . 4,552
China . . 29,869 Russia . . 1,02 T
Norway, with 2,772,414 people and 2,841,905
tons of shipping on the register, makes the
biggest figure in proportion to population,
with over one ton to each person. China,
with 299,806 tons, comes at the other end
with from 141 b. to 21b. of ship per head.
The progressive movements of Italy and
Russia respectively are interesting and in-
structive. One is presumably to some extent
the result of Mussolini. The other is cer-
tainly to a great extent the consequence of
Benin, Trotsky and co. The small fry of
the shipowning world, including places ot
meagre account such as Persia, Cuba and
Oman, are lumped in as “Other Countries,
and own some 808,000 tons of shipping
among them. And there are craft to the
amount of 90.000 tons which have apparently
no home and no nationality, probably pirates,
Flying Dutchmen, Jonah’s whale and simi-
lar odds and ends of the briny deep.
—
Getting Down to Tacks.
Press notices of Bruce’s speeches in Britain
failed to do the returned wanderer full
justice. They prepared the Australian public
for a repetition of Imperialistic platitudes
that have been doing duty since the Diamond
Jubilee. But it- isn’t as bad as all that. Un
tlie subjects of migration and trade there
evidently has been some straight talking, and
the notion that townies on the dole have only
to be sent to Australia to develop into pros-
perous farmers no longer lias the field lo
itself. Baldwin and co. are going to send
over some of tlieir “best business and finan-
cial brains” to commune with tlie Migration
and Development Board, which has a good
man at the head of it, and our captains of
industry with a view to finding ways m
which “the absorption power of Australia
mav be increased.”
The only sensible way of absorbing immi-
grants, of course, is to provide them with
jobs that they are likely to stick at and that
they have some chance of liking. Lne back-
blocks are not providing such jobs in large
quantities, and the city-bred “migrant, after
discovering that one works in the country
longer hours than in the town for less pay,
ceases to be a rural worker. It might save
time and trouble to put him to work in a
factory at the outset. Bruce realises this,
and has said so in Britain, in his urbane
way. Even so. he has induced more British
manufacturers to consider the possibility o.
putting up branch works in Australia. Those
who have already done so have thus far
nothing to regret, although they naturally
don’t make a song about what they’ve found.
The best way for J. Bull to get rid of redun-
dant members of liis family is to cease paying
them idleness doles and put the money into
the development of manufacturing industry
in tlie Dominions. As the Balfour Commit-
tee pointed out, this needn’t mean the crab-
bing of Bull’s own pitch. Dominion manu-
facturing industry will develop, whether he
frowns or smiles, and if he smiles and be-
comes a partner he gets not only good interest
on his investment but many a nice fat con-
tract for machinery and plant that other-
wise might have gone to Uncle Sam. Indus-
tries can’t be established without machinery.
Bull makes machinery, and could make a
lot more.
Bruce’s real achievement is that he has
coupled Australian factory industries with
the cause of migration. If that coupling
holds a start will be made with the solution
of quite a lot of problems which are keeping
Bull awake at nights, and would be worry-
ing Australia if Australia were capable ot
worrying.
❖
The Australian Jumbuck.
“J.D.C.” : Regarding the recent outcry about
the deterioration of Australia's wool-clip,
there is a certain amount of truth in it as
far as the quality is concerned. The fact
is that high quality without quantity will
not give the equivalent return of quan-
tity with only fair quality. And although
the Australian flockmaster has little to
learn from outsiders, he has,, so far, been
unable to produce a '‘quantity” fleece of
“first-quality” wool. The whole thing boils
down to the straight-out question as to which
shows the highest return to the producer,
and the answer has been supplied at almost
any wool sale for several years. . Two y ea rs
ago, a man in the Southern district of IS. S.
Wales got 41d. for his wool, while another
from the Lachlan got 28d. during the same
series of sales, and the Lachlan man cleared
18d. per head more from his sheep than the
man with the three-and-fivepenny clip. In
rough figures, the Southern sheep, cut 81b.
and the Lachlan mob 121 b. In addition, the
broad-fibred heavy cutters have nearly twice
the weight of carcase, are more robust and
better suited to battle through a drought
than the small and delicate fine-wool grow-
ers. Of the latter, when skinned, there is
scarcely enough to make a decent stew. Only
the southern and hilly portions of N. S.
Wales are suited for the production of very
fine wool, and the Western pastoralist, realis-
ing this, balances accounts by producing
weight and carcase. It is a fact that if a
“drop” of, say, 5000 Laclilan-bred lambs
was evenly divided, and half sent to the
Monaro while the others went out west,
after a couple of years under the best con-
ditions in each district the two mobs would
not be recognisable as the one “drop.” On
condition of clip alone the Monaro mob
would beat the Westerners by pence per lb.,
while the Western mob would be far ahead
in size of frame and weight of clip. The
Monaro man can put in liis clip practically
free from dust and seed, and in a cool cli-
mate the natural dark tip will remain
throughout the year, while in the West both
dust and seed must be reckoned with, and
the dark tip will disappear, leaving the ends
more or less ragged and “wasty. ’ There-
fore the present broader-fibred heavy cut-
ters are being purposely , developed by the
Western sheepmen, and it is safe to say these
sheep will remain until market results show
there is more profit in reverting to the very
“fine” types. It has been stated in the press
that S.' Africa is now producing fine worn
of an even better quality than ours This
is only to be expected, as ; their chief studs
are recruited from Australia’s best; but will
the growers continue on those lines or will
they adopt the views of the more experi-
enced breeders here, avlio have found that the
fine-wool sheep doesn’t pay as well as the
stronger type? It is ridiculous to state
that Australian slieepbreeders are slipping.
The type of sheep now being produced has
been developed only after deep consideration
and experiment, is proved to be most suit-
able for climatic conditions, and, most im-
portant of all, shows a bigger return per
head.
♦- • »
Tli4 Right o’ the Line.
Ever since the man on foot first looked sourly
on the person on horseback, the worth of
cavalry in warfare has been questioned. The
Macedonian phalanx and the Roman legion
convinced their world that the foot-soldier
was supreme, until the conviction was shat-
tered by the mounted archers of Partlua.
The English bowmen restored the prestige of
infantry, but Cromwell’s cavalry proved to
the first Charles that the race was to the
swiftest. When the eighteenth century was
dying, Murat and Kellermann built up a
wonderful cavalry tradition, which was
broken on the squares of Waterloo. Again,
the Light Brigade showed in the Crimea that
it was possible to charge batteries in action
and capture them —if decent support had
been given the stroke would have been a
dazzling success instead of a splendid failure
—but the impregnability of the man on foot
became a fetich in modern warfare, sis
British authorities considered it, especially
after the second Boer War. The sword, they
said, was a foolish thing; even the bayonet
was to go. The aeroplane was to supplant
the cavalry’s last reason for existence: recon-
naissance and intelligence.
Then came the world-shaking success ot
Allenby's cavalry in Palestine and Syria.
There the mounted arm with sword and
lance disposed of the Turks in a few days
as far as the World YV ar was concerned,
did everything, in fact, that its critics had
said it could not do. And after the last
elaborate British manoeuvres, the consensus
of expert opinion was that, in spite of plane
and tank and tractor, cavalry had proved
itself indispensable. In Australia, with its
vast distances, its three railway gauges
(not reckoning in privately-owned lines),
and its generally inferior roads, the
mounted arm must be the nations clnet
reliance, supposing an invading enemy
gained a foothold on the mainland. \\ ar
machines, however marvellous, cannot tra-
verse all sorts and conditions of country on
terms with a man, and especially a man on
a horse. Australians who took part in the
fighting in the Moabitisli mountains will
smile at the idea of any tank or tractor
going where their horses went, or of any
infantry covering the ground at the pace and
in the time which marked the attack on and
retirement from Amman and Es Salt. Aus-
tralia, with plenty of open country, is strewn
with wooded and rocky fastnesses impene-
trable to machines, but offering to the good
horse and the accustomed rider every advan-
tage which a military terrain can ottei tor
defence or attack.
The mounted soldier will be the keystone
of Australia’s defence for many a year to
come. Those in authority should recognise
his importance and make their arrangements
accordingly, without being led astray by mil-
tary pundits who fail to realise that Aus-
tralian conditions and 1 landers conditions
are Poles apart.
♦
New Financial Ways and Fresh Devices.
“G. Moses” : One of the few ideas which
did not occur to the sub-committee of Caucus,
so far as I know, as a means of raising
money for the N.S.W. child endowment was
a tax on interest, the 7 per cent, mortgage
to become automatically 8 per cent, or some
other convenient figure, so that the person
who lent the money would act as honorary
collector. I don’t know whether it would
be constitutional or not, but the suggestion
is no madder than others which have been
made It would be a fairly comprehensive
tax, and the fact that it would strike the
indebted class, right down to those whose
clothing is in pawn, need not trouble the
Government so long as it got the money. It
isn’t a Government which troubles much.
Assuming that the people who collected had
to specify the number of separate clients
they collected from, the amount of principal
they collected on, and one or two other
details, the returns would shed a bright light
on the time-payment habits of the com-
munity. For the purposes of the hiw
“interest” would, of course, include
charges disguised as bonus, commission
for procuring loan, discount oil loan,
and swindles in general. It might be
a valuable check if such conspicuous and
frequently hypothecated objects as buildings
and motor-cars had to be painted a distinct-
ive color while they remained in debt, and
unoccupied land with a lien on it could be
similarly distinguished by the hue of the
fence, or of a post if there was no fence.
The tint would have to be strictly reserved,
and its employment on fully-paid-for pro-
perty should be regarded as an attempt on
the owner’s part to simulate poverty for
some dishonest purpose, and be penalised
accordingly. A side-line which might, yield
a trifle of revenue (and even a trifle is not
to be despised) would be the addition of a
new schedule to the income-tax paper. 11ns
would be for “receipts from bribes, embezzle-
ment, forgery, burglary, robbery with or
without violence, including the picking ot
pockets, and other crimes, specifying the
crimes and proceeds of each. Provided the
filling-in of a taxpaper was made universal
and compulsory in the same way as voting,
quite a large proportion of adult offenders
could be fined for making false returns, and
something recovered out of their belongings.
This would be especially so if the law was
made retrospective. The present Govern-
ment has a tendency towards original forms
of money-raising, hence these suggestions. It
their adoption caused all N.S.W. outside the
County of Cumberland to forcibly secede, and
leave the Lang Ministry marooned on a sort
of island, it would only be the luck ot the
game. Secession may come in any case.
+
Very Like a Picture Film.
The Sydney police struck something in the
nature of a picture film the other day, though
it pretended to be merely something that
happened casually. First there was sighted,
on Randwick racecourse, a person with a
number of convictions and a current sentence
which he should hav’e been serving but
wasn’t. He was out on light bail pending
an appeal, and was filling in the interval by
picking pockets. Having picked four, which
was at the rate of 48 a day, lie was arrested
by a racecourse constable, who put him in
charge of an attendant in the office while
he went off to inform a real constable. They
returned to discover that the arrestee had
biffed the attendant and left. News that he
had gone to Bondi brought out three officers,
and they found their prey parading the
beach in' bathing-trunks and -robe, and lead-
ing a child as evidence of good faith. Hav-
ing beguiled the force by friendly conversa-
tion he made a dash for the sea, intending
to swim to Lord Howe Island. Hie force
scored its one success when it headed lnm
In the course of a brilliant effort, the
offender reached the top of the bath-house
steps first, and there he confronted a breath-
less constable, the survivor of three, who
waved a revolver at the bottom. The crowd,
with its illimitable capacity for misinterpreta-
tion, decided at once that the constable was
the criminal and that the criminal was the con-
stable. As the result a deaf and dumb man
pinioned the officer from behind, and stopped
his upward progress. The deaf and dumb
man may have been assisted by a cripple, a
paralytic and a corpse, but the fact is not
recorded. In the middle of the confusion, the
criminal struck the officer hard on the jaw,
as he had previously done to the racecourse
attendant. Amid the whirl of events, the
policeman’s revolver went off, and wounded
the criminal in the arm. Nothing seems to
be known about the whereabouts of the other
two policemen while these doings were in
progress. The remainder of the story is that
the criminal vanished again, persuaded a
motorist to drive him to the hospital, leaped
from the car en route, taking the motorist’s
rug to disguise his partial nakedness, and
disappeared into the jungles of Rose Bay.
From all of which and much else this
paper concludes that there is too much easy
bail in N.S.W., and the police are too few
and too slow, and the crowd is too much
addicted to taking sides against the law.
♦—
The Queensland Government’s Irrigation
Schemes.
Irrigation works on the day-labor plan
were going to do wonders for Queensland, the
Labor Government used to say. The won-
ders have not arrived, but other things have.
The Inkerman irrigation area in North
Queensland has cost £305,000, so far, and
has earned nothing in the way of interest.
On the Daw T son Valley scheme the loan ex-
penditure has been £327.000, which includes
£26,648 interest, and further interest charges
are to be capitalised until settlement on the
area has taken place. Thus far 073 farms
are available for selection, ot which
264 are irrigated; the average area
is about 15 acres. The settler s share
of the interest bill will work out at
£6B per year or thereabouts. And the water
charge (taking Inkeripan as a guide) will be
£4 6s. 7d. an acre; also the Lands Depart-
ment will presumably want a bit of rent, bo
the holder of a 15-acre leas'e will be expected to
pay the Government about £l5O a year.
From Theodore, the railway centre of the
Dawson area, to Rockhampton is 104 miles,
and the distance to Brisbane, where most
of the produce grown will have to be sent, is
530 miles. Railway freight rates will there-
fore be a considerable item. Bananas and
pineapples grown on the Dawson area will
have no chance against those from Cairns
and the coastal districts between Mackay and
Tweed Heads. Maize and lucerne will pro-
bably do well, but the freight handicap comes
in again. The Government has an idea ot
buying up the surplus. of these crops and
storing it for use by graziers in time ot
drought. To buy at, say, £4 a ton, store
for four or five years, and then sell at zi
would be a risky business for private traders.
In the Government’s hands it would inevit-
ably mean tremendous losses. An alterna-
tive crop which might be grown is cotton.
Unfortunately cotton of fair quality can be
bought in Liverpool to-day at less than it
would cost to produce on the Dawson. Ihe
advent of the Australian spinner is encourag-
ing but heavily capitalised Government irri-
gation farms' offer the aspiring cotton-
grower a very distant prospect of making a
fortune. On the coast lands and the table-
lands lying behind the Crown has millions
of acres with a good rainfall, and available
railways to ports. Had this part ot the
country been taken in hand there would have
been no necessity for costly irrigation and
railway works, and the small settler would
have been freed from the greatest of the bur-
dens that the Dawson ;ukl Inkerman men
will have to carry. But, of course, there
would have been nothing in it for multitudes
of day-laborers.
«
Respect—and the Pictures.
“Eixae” : The American tourists who, not-
withstanding the fact that the American
tourist has been the world’s joke since tour-
ists were first invented, were astonished to
find themselves treated with “lack of
respect” in Australia have overlooked the
American film. The cinema is, perhaps, the
strongest influence in modern life, and>
according to Hollywood, there is very little
in modern life in America to deserve respect.
Probably America has, in reality, as good
a proportion of the strongest pillar ot civil-
isation, the Average Good Citizen, as any
other country. It may have boys and Sjrls
who can enjoy life without considering that
their “flaming youth” entitles them to
despise all ideas of chastity, sobriety and
decency. It may have wives who respect
the marriage vows enough not to leap at
another man the instant he offers their
“starved souls” luxury if the husband is
poor, or incessant hectic love-making it lie
is rich. It may have rich men who enjoy
a quiet evening at home, and shopwalkers
who would rather spend their spare time
working in the garden than in ruining the
newest shopgirl. It may have courts where
reasonable men endeavor to give the accused
a fair trial rather than strongholds where
roaring, ranting bullies work off personal
enmities for the man who pays them best.
Indeed, it must have all these things to hold
its place in the world at all; but so long
as its film companies flood the country with
evidence to the contrary, any party of Ameri-
cans that looks for respect from the general
public is likely to be as badly disappointed
as the aggrieved tourists who apparently
expected that their reputed millions would
buy it.
Tariff Board Tardiness.
A deputation that waited on Customs-Min-
isti r Pkatten at Sydney the other day asked
that applications to the Tariff Board should
be dealt with more promptly, and presented
an unanswerable case. The Tariff Board
does good work in its way—its report on
the agricultural-implement industry was a
very c mvincing statement of what Protec-
tion lias done for manufacturers, farmers
and the ration in this field —but takes too
long about it. How slowly its machinery
operates may be judged from the statement of
Octavius Bsaue, uncontradicted by the
Minister, that 37 Tariff Board reports had
not been submitted to Parliament and 32
applications for increased duties awaited
inquiry by the board Some of the speakers,
all manufacturers, very pointedly asked how
they were going to fare if State Govern-
ments like Lang’s made industry bear the
burden of work-reducing schemes, vast doles
to supporters and the like. Mr. Prat-
ten did not know. He tried to show that
the Tariff Board had to work very silently
and slowly lest some manufacturer or im-
porter should anticipate the results, but the
deputation did not seem to be convinced
The Minister aroused enthusiasm at only
one point. That was where he said that a
crying need of Australia to-day was for the
manufacture of motor-vehicles on a substan-
tial scale. Australia spends more money on
petrol-waggons than on any other single item
in the list of imports that are capable of local
production. Nobody knows better than Prat-
ten that some of our biggest engineering
firms have pooled their resources and are
prepared to produce an automobile that
will be Australian-made to the extent of 90
per cent, so far as the chassis is concerned
and 100 per cent. Australian in every other
respect. This is one of the many matters
that have been referred to the Tariff Board.
The Minister’s statement that his Govern-
ment has every sympathy with the proposal
is welcome, but more welcome still would be
a definite assurance that expedition will now
be shown in dealing with this and every other
honest application for Protection —that, in
fact, all arrears of tariff work will be reso-
lutely tackled in Parliament as soon as that
institution can get going again. Pratten’s
Government has done something towards
making Australia a really Protective coun-
try, but there is a great deal still to be done.


Showing one of the twenty-two die-cast metal
units tv hick house the entire eighty-eight
valves in the Wurlitzer metal action.
The player with the wonderful metal action.
The “WuRUIZESf Player Piano
The “Wurlitzer” metal action is an exclusive feature, not to be found in ordinary Players—and its
importance to purchasers of Player Pianos lies in the fact that the most delicately sensitive parts of
e actmn are made from a special non-corrosive metal alloy—which dispenses with the use of wood
“\Y/ f- metal action is not affected by the varying degrees of our climate, the glorious
Wurlitzer tone is retained throughout the lifetime of the instrument.
Full particulars and demonstrations from any of the following music stores: —
CW, T?s j< LoilS-m ? 0 fH al r^ yer Pia rnu C A °-’ J 33 5,? Street, Sydney; M. Light & Sons, Ltd., Newcastle and Cessnock;
Loneragan Ltd., Gulgong; The Australian Stores, Yass.
bouth Australia: \.\\e Australian Implement and House Furnishing Co. Adelaide.
1 ictona. Myers Emporium. Ltd., Melbourne. West Australia• Mus°Toves Ltd Mnrrav Street Perth
Queensland: Young & Whatnall, Campbell’s Buildings, Creek Street, Brisbane gro s, L * d-> Murray btrect > 1 ert “-
O r' dlflKu!tv IS ex P er] euced in procuring a Wurlitzer, please communicate direct with the factory representatives:
8 O Connell Street, Sydney. PARKER, BLAU & CO., LTD. 308 Flinders Lane, Melbourne.
The Vast Importance of McShortodds.
Those who invest money in industry get
nothing but hostile treatment from the pre-
sent misrulers of N. S. Wales, but the horse-
and pony-racing 'interest has powerful
friends. This was shown last week when
the Lang Government received Caucus in-
structions to give the Monangle Park club
hack its 12 meetings per annum, to autho-
rise a lot more pony-racing and trotting in
the Newcastle district and elsewhere, and to
amend the Act which places wagering con-
tracts outside the legal machinery by wrhich
ordinary indebtedness is controlled—to
enable the bookmaker to put a legal screw
mi punters when they fail to meet their
betting debts, in fact.
This pro-bookmaker proposal is a throw-
back to a condition of things that existed
over 80 years ago. At common law wagers
—except when indecent or contrary to public
policy—could in those days be enforced, like
any other contract. Judges exercised a free-
and-easy discretion as to transactions that
might or might not be actionable. For
-xample, it was held that one De Costa
- mid not recover a bet made with a certain
Jones on the subject of the sex of a person
with a romantic history who fluttered be-
wilderingly between trousers and petticoats;
it was held to be an indecent contract. So
also it was found to be improper to give or
take the odds on the ; event of an un-
married lady being in a certain condition
within a specified time. Also, a wager on
the result of a Parliamentary election was
not legally recoverable; it was against public
policy. But, with such exceptions, contracts
by way of gaming were quite lawful. In
1545, however, when Disraeli was writing
"Sybil” and Peel discoursing on Freetrade,
the British Parliament found time to enact
“that all contracts or agreements, whether
by parol or in writing, by way of gaming
or wagering, shall be null and void.” Thence-
forward, gentlemen gaming in their clubs or
betting at Ascot or Epsom were put upon
their honor for the payment of their losses,
and in the strict code of those days they met
them, even to the frequent impoverishment
of their estates. In N. S. Wales nowadays
bookmakers require a more tangible security
than honor, and Labor politicians are pre-
pared to give it to them.
The Act of 1845, the provisions of which
are embodied in the statute law of N. 8.
Wales, gave rise to much litigation and con-
sequent interpretation. It was held that
although wagers are “null’ and void” they
are not absolutely illegal, and ingenious
ways of driving a coach and four through
the Act have from time to time been devised.
In one case the plaintiff had handed over a
sum of money to the defendant to invest for
him on the racecourse. Apparently the
defendant was a man of discretion, or had
some , stable knowledge, for the horses lie
backed won. He gave the plaintiff a cheque
for the amount of the winnings. The cheque
was dishonored, and the plaintiff, bringing
action, was met by the defence that he was
attempting to enforce a contract prohibited
by statute. It was held -that betting on
horseraces was not illegal in the sense that
it necessarily tainted any transaction con-
nected with it, and the defence failed. More
cautious Judges la'ter on found reason to
distinguish this case from others that ran
it almost neck by neck. The process of dis-
tinguishing is often a neat way of avoiding
an undesirable precedent.
Through the mesh of law woven round this
grey-haired statute the one clear principle
has survived: If you don’t pay up your
debts of honor to the bookie lie can’t “have
the law on you.” All lie can* do is to say
unpleasant things, and post you up at
Tattersall’s. Now it is’ proposed to put a
bet due to a bookie on exactly the same plane
;is “the account rendered” of the milkman or
the greengrocer—though without the satisfac-
tion afforded in the latter cases of having
had something tangible for your money.
Also, there is to he a lot more racing, so the
bookie will benefit in two ways. It is a
great thing to be a bookie, in a land where
the new Laborism is in the ascendant.
4
The Missionary and His Flock.
“Griffith Moses” : Local pro-Cliinese, Bol-
sheviks and other nuisances keep harping
on the yarn of Inchcape, the great shipping
bloat, that our yellow brother has a special
and justifiable derry on British people
because they afflict him with missionaries.
iNCncAPE specially desired to know what
the feeling would be if China dotted Eng-
land with Buddhist missions. Buddhism is
itself a missionary product in China, though
I don’t suppose that has any bearing on the
case. It is just possible that the missionary
business is the subject of- a good deal of
slapdash ignorance. It is officially reckoned
that the number of Protestants who go forth
and mish in non-Christian fields was
19,105 in 1925. This included 8502 unmar-
ried women, and the total was nothing much
for a globe. Britain supplied 5598 of them,
and the United States, including a few from
Canada, furnished 10,469. The Yankees find
approximately two-thirds of the money to
mish with. As Protestant missionaries alone
ran, at recent advices, 833 hospitals aud
241 dispensaries in China, they do a lot of
gratis work for the guileless Chow besides
inussing with dogmas. Roman Catholic mis-
sioners, male and female, numbered, in 1925,
close on 42,000, and these weren’t British
to any great extent. Maliommedans have
mished in China for centuries, but they didn't
trouble much to furnish the population with
hospitals and dispensaries. Russians began
carrying their Greek creed to China in the
seventeenth century, and their church
acquired much property there. The Soviet
Government, by a process of pressure, got
itself recognised in 1924 as the owner of
this property, so bits of Soviet Russia arc
scattered here and there throughout the
yellow man’s republic. If the Chinese have
a special objection to the British, it may be
an artificial emotion implanted by the inter-
fering Russian, who has looted 1,300,000
square miles of what used to be Chinese terri-
tory in Mongolia, and in this and other
ways, which the Asiatic understands, has
shown that he is a man to be treated with
consideration. The Soviet person regards the
British Empire as a most desirable property,
if it could be broken up and assimilated by
instalments. In any case, when the partly-
Bolshevised Chinaman considers the vast
mass of J. Bull shipping in Chinese waters,
and the other evidences of wealth, lie natu-
rally views the local J. Bull as a person who
ought to be plundered. Hongkong is a mere
speck compared with Formosa, but it is
JUST HIS STRENGTH.
BABBLEB BILL: “’ Ear yer workin ’, Sam ? What yer doin'?”
SLEEPY SAM: “Aw, nothin'."
BABBLER BILL: “ Any chance of a job?"
worth much more. It is a commonplace of
history that missionary enterprise isn’t the
essential feature of a row. Neither Rome
nor Constantinople pious clerics, loaded
up with moral teaching, to the Avars and
Ostrogoths and Huns and Turks, but they
were regarded as the two cities which were
supremely worth looting, so half the known
world was their enemy. The same holds good
in private life, for the affluent individual
who is assaulted and robbed has very seldom
interfered with his assailant’s religion, or
his national or international status, or even
taken an island from him. It is quite pos-
sible, that Lord Inchcape’s obviously rich
aspect annoyed the Chinese more than any
of the mission men did, but none of their
river pirates had the luck to bag the marine
monstrosity of wealth and hold him to
ransom.
♦
From Maoriland comes the reply of a foreign
traveller who, after touring Australia, read
Dr. Iveitii Barry’s recent Bulletin article
urging the Commonwealth to spend jnore
money on luring the tourist this way:—
Why does no tourist ever want to tour Australia a
second time? Because nearly every country hotel
can be smelt a mile off. The sewerage (or lack of
it) is disgusting. You cannot get meals or hot
water after 6.30 in the evening. Your railways are
bad and dirty. Your. Government officials have never
heard the word courtesy. The meat you get in the
cities is poor stuff; and no wonder when you con-
sider the way the railways convey the stock. Your
roads are unspeakable, and motorists get no pleasure
in travelling them.
A pretty comprehensive curse; and the nasty
thing about it is that it isn’t wholly un-
deserved.
O
“Medox" : Spaiilinger, whose alleged con-
sumption cure was an issue at the last Com-
monwealth election, lias been made the sub-
ject of one more unsatisfying report. Dr.
Blackmore, a Christchurch (M.L.) man,
with a record of successful treatment in
India as well as Maoriland, investigated
Spaiilinger at first hand —spent hours in
liis laboratory, and pleaded for material with
which to make an independent investigation.
But he didn’t get it. Spaiilinger, accord-
ing to the Maorilander, never accepts an
opportunity of proving his “cure.” The
Blackmore verdict is: “Spaiilinger is
merely getting Koch’s results in a costlier
way”—the reference is to Koch’s tuber-
culin. Blackmore wanted to test the
Koch remedy against Spaiilinger’s remedy,
but he is still waiting for Spaiilinger’s
serums. He remarks sadly that, although
Spaiilinger has frequently expressed his
abhorrence of the notion of selling his “cure,”
he has twice nearly sold it —once to Maori-
land. whose High Commissioner, Allen,
thought it would be a good thing for cows,
and on another occasion to Australia.
4
Sydney Telegraph sticks to the weird
delusion, of which it appears to have a mon-
opoly, that the British Empire is in some part
responsible for Australia’s debts if Australia,
or any section of it, fails to pay. This
view was developed in an article on “The
American Mortgage” (27/l/’27) :
While the British Empire does not necessarily
guarantee every loan raised by a scapegrace member
of the Imperial family from its own capitalists, it
must be prepared to accept the ultimate responsi-
bility to a foreign creditor. This need not be a
matter of contract. It is an obligation practically
inseparable from the nature of the transaction.
Were the State borrower to default, is it likely that
the Empire would see a member oft; the family
bankrupt, and permit a foreign creditor to put in
the bailiff?
This quaint idea implies that the Yankee
capitalist who lends to McCormack or Lang
or Bruce-Page has a guarantee which the
Australian or British lender doesn’t pos-
sess. It is too thin. The U.S. itself laid
down the rules of the game at an early
stage of its career, for repudiation goes back
at least as far as 1841. They were: (1)
If a State or some minor authority
raised a loan abroad and failed or refused
to pay, the creditor had no remedy save
moral suasion. (2) If he tried to “'put in
the bailiff” it was not the duty of the Central
Authority to pay up on behalf of its offspring,
but it was its duty to shoot or otherwise dispose
of said bailiff. It is possible, of course, that an
attempt might be made to establish new
rules if TJncle was a loser instead of a
gainer, but that is no part of the argument.
It might be well, in order to avert possible
misunderstandings, if the Commonwealth
issued a notice that it is in no way respon-
sible for its sons’ debts, except in the case
(pretty numerous now) where its name k
actually on the back of the p.n. 18
♦
Listening-Insect”: “Murkaii” (g
27/1//27) obviously had no practical experi’
once of wireless or cable during the war
I served a British company which worked
both for all it was worth. It thous'n
so little of wireless (except as betwl,
slops, etc.) that it continued to trust 99't
p.c of its traffic to the cables. The German
rell back on Jsauen because they had n
cables to fall back on. The French mav
nave done wonders in the way of broadcast-
? r<^ agan<^a with tlieir “mountain-hiH v
Liftel Tower, but when it came to hard
tack like wiring to Annam for more
so.diers or to Australia for more sheen
skins they did what everybody else vL
doing—used the British cables. As f 0
raiders, such as the Wolf, wanderine
round tapping” cables—when, where and
how was this wonder performed? To tan
a cable one must cut through the gutta
perclia insulation to get at the copper con-
ductor, which would cause the siphons at
each end to fly off the recording tape and
automatically bring communication to an
end. “Murkaii” talks of Britain rushim;
ahead with radio development. I cannot
the rush under the finest microscope
Ihe cable companies could have erected
wireless stations —instead they laid more
cables. The beam wireless* had to get half
its funds from the Governments before it
rushed—a thing the British cables never
did. Until beam wireless improves, as
doubtless it will, the public may even haVe
to go on subsidising it. Yielding to popu-
lar pressure, the Marconi people lowered the
rates between Canada and England, and as
their service is sometimes interrupted for
a whole day, they will be compelled to either
return the messages or divert via the
cables and pay the higher rate. The Austra-
lian beam is in the same fix. Its rate is to
be 2s. a word. The cable rate is 2s 6d. If
it is interrupted for any length of time it
will have to hand its traffic to the cables
and pay the difference—and the taxpayer will
make up the loss. The Holland-Java wire-
less has been working like that for the
past three years.
0
“N.M.P. (1870 SO)”: “Der Jong” (B,
27/l/’27) doesn’t know much about the
military history of the S’African native
races. _ The Basutos certainly vanquished a
small impi of Zulus in one of many inva-
sions of their country, but it was not that
reverse which stayed Tciiaka’s hand; it
was rather the fear of a combination against
him of Britain, Boer and Basuto. Of all the
S’African Bantu tribes the Amaswazi alone
held the Zulu at bay. These highlanders
retreated before an invasion into their hills,
preceded by tlieir herds trained for such a
purpose and driven by the women and
children.; and, brave though the Zulu was,
he hesitated to follow. Yet it was only the
overawing of Cetewayo by the whites that
saved the Swazis eventually. “Der Josg”
enthuses about the chastity of Zulu women
and the honesty of the men. With regard to
the former, I suspect he has never Beard iof
a certain national Zulu custom that can be
barely mentioned. His impressions about
the honesty of the Zulu convince me that
he never did any trading or ran any cattle
out that way. I’d back a Zulu for sleight-
of-hand in shoplifting against any Sydney
expert. One word about the statement as to
wliat happened when Cetewayo’s warriors
crossed into Natal in ’79. About 4000 got
two miles across the border at Rorke's
Drift, but they had no time for lovemaking.
The boys at the biscuit-hoxes saw to that.
*
“Huffin-Guffin” : I never drew the baby
bonus instituted by Andrew Fisher—or.
rather, my wife never did —because we lived
a little too soon. For fully 20 years prior
to 1912 _we were helping to provide Aus-
tralia with the “best possible immigrant”;
and there were some very lean years among
them. If we had known there was £5 wait-
ing to defray the newcomer’s passage-money,
so to speak, it would have helped to ease
the mother’s anxiety at a time when anxiety
is likely to be particularly harmful. Instead,
we often had to scrape and pinch to provide
the doctor’s and nurse’s fees. That much
of this worry is now eliminated by the bonus
is my reason for differing from the writer
of “The Great God Bonus” article (B.
27/l/’27). If he had, as I have, experi-
enced the feeling that his dead infant might
have lived had its mother not been worried
for months about the expenses of its
arrival, he would not so glibly condemn
Fisher’s humane Act. If he had, as I have,
known what it is to be without the money
to bury the child when it died, he would
perhaps not have condemned it at all.
[For any Plain English paragraphs which require
a signature under the law, S. 11. Prior, J. E. Webb
and James of 214 George-strect,. Sydney,
are responsible.]


r
Itr
FbolbalLaf—
Pavss it oxi that there is no
finer feeling of exhilara-
ting well being” than
after a clean, close shave
with
tCnfA?
VELVET
SHAVING STICK
35.1 ISO. J. KITCHEN » SONS PTT. LTD.
m
VELVET
sn&vmc STICK
ê
“The Australia” — Centre of Sydney
The “Australia” vestibule is the heart of everything. Daily
it is crowded by a gay and happy throng; at mid-day on
Saturdays it presents a scene you would have to travel
the world to duplicate.
Vestibule facilities include Flower, Sweet, Pharmacy,
Tobacco and Book Stalls, Theatre Booking and Motor
Hire Offices, and Postal and Telegraphic facilities.
Other “Australia” features include Ladies’ and
Gentlemen’s Hairdressing and Manicure Rooms, Safe
Deposit and Turkish Baths —open to the public.
Telegraphic Address: “Austraotel, Sydney.’’
/A
/lustr
(Paid-up Capital, £422,100.)
THE HOTEL OF THE
COMMONWEALTH,
SYDNEY.
Queensland
Insurance Go.
Ltd.
Head Office:
Pitt & Bridge Streets.
Sydney.
The Largest
Australian Company
transacting
Fire, Marine, Personal
Accident and Sickness,
Burglary, Live Stock,
Public Risk, Boiler Ex-
plosion, Workers’ Com-
pensation, etc., etc.
POLITICAL
POINTS
The strike for a 40-hour week in the
Brisbane building trade was engineered in
a topsy-turvy fashion. The stoppage having
started or got moving, the Court mentioned
that it would be a good, but belated, proceed-
ing if a secret ballot of the unions was taken
to decide whether they would strike or not.
This scheme fell through, but instead a
meeting was called, and an open vote was
taken to resolve whether a secret ballot
would be taken to resolve whether the
strike which was already going should begin.
The open decision was that the unions would
not secretly ballot to decide anything; so
there you are.
Ex-Premier Lawson is to be campaign-
director for the State Nationalists now pre-
paring to face the Vic. electors. He was not
fee<‘ii on a two months’ leadership that cannot
end in a triumph, and the invitation had-to
be put in the form of a party resolution,
although Oman, who framed it, added a
qualification that Lawson should confer with
the Nationalists in the Composite Cabinet.
Lawson’s party has small chance of winning
more than 27 seats out of 05, and another
coalition will be necessary if the non-Labor
crowd is to go on ruling. An elective Minis-
try would be a far better arrangement for
Victoria, but nobody talks of that.
The N.S.W. Government secured Assembly
approval for its bill authorising the holders
of publicans’ licenses to serve liquor with
meals up to 9 p.m., after illogically accepting
an amendment denying the same concession
to holders of wine licenses. It is a silly
distinction. The wine industry is going to
mean big things for Australia. It is worth
encouraging, if only for the reason that it
deals exclusively in wares grown and made
in the country, and it is a poor way of en-
couraging it to deny decent wine vendors--
especially restaurants with wine licenses —
what is granted to sellers of Scotch whisky
and Irish stout. The Government itself runs
a wine bar as an adjunct to its restaurant at
the Central railway station, and handicaps
its own enterprise, as against the pubs, by
its latest bit of legislation.
The Westralian general election, like the
affair in South Aus., is to be held on Satur-
day, March 26. Labor prospects in Jarrali-
land are brightening, especially as there
has been a considerable transfer of votes
from metropolitan strongholds to doubtful
country electorates. Bands of sturdy fel-
lows called road workers were rushed up
to selected neighborhoods—so hurriedly in
some cases that there was no plant waiting
for them, the local authority, not having
been apprised of their coming. But they all
found their way to the district electoral office
before the rolls closed. The cream of the
joke is that the non-Labor Commonwealth
Ministry is furnishing the money, although
it may not be actually charged up to
“Federal-aid roads,” having already pro-
vided tlie wherewithal for a one-third reduc-
tion in the State Labor Government’s
income-tax. There are sonic precious simple-
tons in the Commonwealth Ministry.
A feeling grows in England that it is time
to give up wasting politeness on the desert
air of the Soviet, and to cease the attempt
to become reconciled with the irreconcilable.
The alligator having failed to respond to
gentlemanly treatment, many British poli-
ticians are of opinion that the trade agree-
ment with Russia should be ended, that the
Soviet mission in London should be shipped
home, and that there should be a general
cleairance of imported Communists, th,ey
being a nuisance and a danger and an un-
pleasant crowd to look at. It would be a
valuable precedent, and might lead to Aus-
tralia getting rid of some noisy nuisances.
Japan’s feverish quest for oil has resulted
in Government experts deciding that, from
immense deposits of shale at Fuslian. Man-
churia, sufficient oil can be extracted on a
Scottish system to make the island king-
dom independent of foreign supplies—Man-
churia is not considered foreign. So the South
Manchuria Railway Company, which is the
Mikado under another name, is installing a
distillation-plant costing six million yen, and
PUTTING HIM OUT ON GRASP.
“Although the Vic. Nationalists and Cookies will not go to the country as a coalition, ex-Premier
Lawson, who will direct the Nationalist campaign, says he is prepared to consult with the Farmers
after the election, if he does not get a majority.”
Peacock: “ We'll turn the old horse out for a bit of grass so’s we can get him xohen
we need him.”
ALLAN: “Yes; but what if the rope doesn't, hold?”
the navy has earmarked the entire prospect-
ive output. Which is one reason why the Japan-,
ese will stick to what they hold in the North
of China, whatever Britain may do in the
South.
Queensland expects to be turning out power
alcohol from the plant at Sarina (N.Q.)
next month. The quantity of molasses
wasted or sold for a song in the Sugar State
would yield about 6,000,000 gallons of power
alcohol p.a. if there were extraction outfits
enough—five at least. But Sarina will liave
the field to itself this year; a second plant is
to be erected at Gordon vale, outside of Cairns,
but it won’t be operating until 1928. The
Federal Government’s bounty is not available
for motor-spirit made from molasses, but the
farmers have not taken kindly to the cassava
project, and it is hoped that the Government
may be induced to change its mind.
Protection is bringing results. For example,
Iladfields, the steel people, have made some
of the big castings for Sydney’s North Shore
bridge at their Alexandria (Sydney) works ;
and the Coogee pier pillars will rest on Had-
lield steel. As for rock-crushing machinery,
the firm has recently turned out, to the order
of the N.S.W. Quarries, a 60in. by 48in.
crusher, which is the biggest thing of its kind
yet manufactured in the Empire, new pro-
blems of design having been solved.
The increased overtime rates granted by
Federal Arbitration Judge Beeby to wharf-
laborers will accentuate the chief trouble now
experienced by stevedores during the inter-
vals between strikes —the reluctance of
wliarfies to take ordinary day jobs. There
is a great deal of all-night work offering on
deep-sea vessels, the heavy port charges mak-
ing it advisable to get the cargo out and nut
to sea again as soon as possible. For eight
hours at day rates the wharfie now gets
£1 Os. 4d., but overtime, rising from 4s. 3d.
from 5 p.m. to 12 p.m. to ss. after midnight,
on Saturday afternoons and holidays, with
6s. 6d. for special holidays, is more enticing.
Steady jobs at regular wages would be better
for both workers and community than even
fancy overtime rates, and tougher problems
have been solved by Australians, though not
by Arbitration Judges.
Ever since the Irish Free State Parlia-
ment came into existence the Republican
members of the Lower House have liehi
aloof, refusing to swear allegiance to Geo. V.,
and as the Government has a direct follow-
ing of only 62 in a House of 153,, the absence
of these stalwarts has helped it materially.
But the other day the first of them drifted
in and took the oath, one of his objects,
he said, being to abolish it. If the rest
follow, then happenings may be anticipated.
The Upper House can hardly become Repub-
lican unless the Lower does, for when one-
fourth of the members go out every three
years (Free State Senators have a 12-years’
job) the two Houses prepare a list of
eligibles, and if Ghabliain ui Dhubhthaigh
isn’t on the list he can no more stand than if
he was a Zulu.
The Melbourne Tramways Board brought
F. B. Clapp, an electrical engineer, from
Sydney to allay the fears of the union bosses
anent the one-man trams, which are similar
to those long in use in other countries.
The union bosses boycotted the investiga-
tion as though they did not want their fears
auayed, and the suspicion grows that their
abhorrence for the innovation is not based
on the alleged inefficiency of the brakes but
on the notion that it is an offence against
Laborism not to employ two men where
one would suffice. Or perhaps the name
or the expert suggested collusion with the
Railways Commissioner, who has long been
under a cloud for promoting unionists merely
because they are efficient and for paying
bonuses to other unionists who earn them.
P. J. Minahau, of Sydney, Labor M.L.A.
and bootmaker, sandwiched this into a recent
letter in the S. M. Herald :
As an employer for a lifetime, and of a section
of workers that has never failed to fight and strike
for their rights, mv experience has shown that where
employees are treated justly there is little or no
trouble. As to seafaring workers, the less said
about them the better, for a knowledge of the
conditions under which they live and the wages paid
them should satisfy any impartial person of their
wretched existence.
It is pleasant, of course, to hear that Mr.
Minahan is so much better an employer than
many others. Still, some Federal statistics
made up to September put down the average
N.S.W. shipping wage as 9s. per week higher
than that in the “boots, clothing” line ; and
there is an Act of 425 clauses, orginally
drafted by a Labor Government, to ensure
that the seafaring man’s food, accommoda-
tion and treatment shall be really good. One
curse of the shipping industry is that 50
thousand Minahans talk about the seaman's
“wretched existence” without knowing a
thing about it.
The N.S.W. Premier doing his daily rage
in the papers is a grotesque and cantanker-
ous spectacle. On a recent day he assured
the community again that his United States
loan was a great success, and cost much less
than he would have had to pay in London,
but whether London asked him for 8 p.c.
or 10 p.c. he didn’t mention. He said that
the Ma State kept out of the joint-borrowing
arrangement because, as a consistent Nark,
he didn’t believe in N.S.W.’s. credit being
used to guarantee the other States, the real
result of N.S.W.’s soured attitude being that
it does guarantee the other States but they
don’t guarantee it. He gave a general
assurance that, having made a deficiency of
about lr millions in seven months, things
couldn’t be better and had never before been
so good. Also he alleged that lots of debt
in New York was “one of the finest measures
of national protection possible,” because if
we owed Uncle 50 or 60 millions he couldn’t
“afford to see us go under before the attack
of a foreign Power.” There is mirthfulness
in the idea of Uncle taking on an enemy too
big for the Empire to handle on the chance
of rescuing a trifle like that. Uncle's little
share in the last war cost £8,105.000,000.
and it made him cautious. Anyhow it would
be the simplest thing in the world for him
to enter into friendly negotiations with the
“foreign Power.” Lang should think up a
better explanation of his financial jumble.
In spite of N.S.W. Premier Lang’s assur-
ances that his Government is the only friend
the man on the land has, the country pro-
ducers continue to show peevishness. One
wrote to the Sydney papers the other day
complaining of the 44-hour-week Government
railways. A truck of sheep he sent to
Homebush from Bellata realised £46 7s. 3d.,
the Railway Department’s bill being
£l3 13s. 4d. When asked the usual question
the department said that “freight rates were
principally determined in relation to values
of goods carried,” and left it to be inferred
that it was astonished at its own modera-
tion. After that, the writer’s statement that
some makes of trucks hold a dozen to 20
sheep fewer than others, and that the shipper
never knows what size he will get till his
trucks arrive at his siding, falls a trifle flat.
As flat*, possibly, as the job of having to
drive 40 or 50 sheep back again to wait an-
other month or so for another indefinite
truck.
[For any Political paragraphs which require a
signature under the law, S. H. Prior, J. E. Webb
and James Edmond, of 214 Georgc-strect, Sydney,
are responsible.]
THE WEAKLINGS.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“During the debate in the N.S.W. Assembly on
(he Liquor Amendment Bill, Mr. Scott Fell scornfully
asked why a man should be penalised for moderate
consumption of a commodity which would be poison
to weaklings like Albert Lane.”
Froth me a tankard, brother, to the brim
And watch me lower it with hearty vim.
Should 1 not .slake my thirst in malt and hops
Because an eggeupful would stiffen him?
This porterhouse whereon our lunch we make
Would give G. Bernard Shaw a stomach-ache
Merely to sight or smell. Are you and I
On that account to be denied our steak?
This black Havana from my case I snatch
Would make a schoolboy sick, a tyro catch
After a dozen draws his breath in doubt.
Strong meat for babes, of course, but—give's a
match 1
Must we forego a snifter with a kick,
A pilot’s nip of grog to stir and stick,
Because a single sip of it might make
A never-touch-it individual shick?
“Fill up the cup, what boots it to repeat”
That one man’s poison is another’s meat,
Or Swiveller’s modest quencher might have left
St. Simeon Stylites tanked a treat ?
Our forthright Fell resents—-and who would not ?
Attempts to dock him of his foaming pot
Because a simple shandy-gaff might make
Abstemious Albert Lane severely shot.
N.S.W.
MIDFORD.


b
S 3
GOOD JUDGMENT
Good business judgment means choosing the most efficient equip-
ment for every purpose.
PIONEER LEATHER BELTING
and Pioneer Mechanical Leather Goods are the accepted standards
of quality equipment in their respective classes.
Sixty-eight years of experience in tanning, belting and leather goods manufacture are your
guarantee that quality is right.
Your inquiries or orders will be promptly attended to.
Manufactured only bv
J. C. LUDOWICI <a SON, LIMITED
Pioneer House, 117 York Street, SYDNEY,
Pioneer Leather Belting Manufacturers since 1858.
INTERSTATE and NEW ZEALAND AGENTS:
VICTORIA: Henson Hros., Ltd., 107-109
Queen’s Bridge Street, Melbourne.
QUEENSLAND: Hoey, Try, Ltd.,
Edward Street, Brisbane;
Burns, Phiip & Co., Ltd., Townsville.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA: John McKell and
Sons, Timpson Street, Port Adelaide.
\\ KsT AUSTKALIA: Horace Summers
Howard Street, Perth.
TASMANIA: Charles Davis, Ltd.
Elizabeth Street, Hobart.
NEW ZEALAND: Friar, Richards &
Upton, Auckland. Blackburn, Smith
& Co., Christchurch.
NOBEL-GLASGOW EXPLOSIVES.
The Standard of Quality throughout the Empire.
Monobel
Samsonite
Gelatine Dynamite
Gelignite
Blasting Gelatine
Dynamite
Safety Fuse
Detonators
Cartridges
ADFIELDS
(AUSTRALIA) LIMITED
The largest and best-equipped Crushing Machinery Works in Australia.
JAW CRUSHERS—DISC CRUSHERS—GYRATORY CRUSHERS.
PORTABLE CRUSHING PLANTS COMPLETE QUARRY PLANTS.
Hadftelds’ Manganese Steel Wearing Parts for all makes of Crushers.
Works and ) Alexandria, Sydney, N.S.W.
Foundries j Bassendean, Perth, W.A.
Branch | 422 Collins Street, Melbourne, Vic.
Office j T. & G. Building, Brisbane, Q.
The WILD CAT
COLUMN
Sydney Ferries. Ltd.: —
To Re- Re-
Dec., Profits. Dividends. serves. serves.
1916. . £28,018 6 p.c. = £28,000 £lB £4,053
1917.. 30,650 6 ~ „ 25,652 1,998 6,051
1918.. 45.590 74 „ „ 38,750 6,840 12,891
1919.. 44,548 74 „ „ 38,750 5,798 15,689
1920.. 52,981 94 ~ „ 50,502 2,479 21,168
1921.. 49,570 8 „ „ 47,141 2,429 23,597
1922.. 58,244 8 „„ 48,733 9,511 33,108
1923.. 50,964 8 „ „ 49,867 1,097 34,205
1924.. 56,184 8 „,; 49,867 6,317 40,522
1925.. 55.056 S „ „ 49.867 5,219 45,741
1926.. 54,242 8 „ „ 49,867 4,375 50,116
The directors go so far as to admit that
profit for the year was satisfactory. The
matter of depreciation was again reviewed,
and it was considered necessary “in view of
the progress being made with the construc-
tion of the Sydney Harbor bridge, to in-
crease somewhat the rate of depreciation on
the recent additions to the fleet.” “Special”
depreciation was allowed on the new North
Shore steamers in 1922-23-24—£4628 in ’22,
£7449 in ’23, amount unspecified in ’24. In
1925 nothing was said about “special” depre-
ciation, but the previous rate of depreciation
was increased by 1 p.c. Last year the two
vehicle-carriers, Kalang and Kara Kara, were
placed in commission, in August and Decem-
ber respectively. It is necessary to recog-
nise the difficulties of the present manage-
ment. The bridge is beginning to rise against
the sky, and an irate travelling public, which
is taking to motors in great numbers and
which confuses Sydney Ferries of these days
with the bonus-paying, water-sodden co. of
12 years and more ago, is demanding better
vehicular service. And the very services on
which the co. has had to spend large sums
in new ferries are the two which the bridge
will wipe out almost completely. Plainly,
there is need of “special” depreciation, for
all recent purchases have been for the Mil-
son’s Point services. The passenger boats
can be used later on on other runs, and the.
vehicle-carriers will not be valueless —there
is talk of a North Sydney-Balmain service
—but the rate of depreciation on the latter
must be sufficient to prevent loss if realisa-
tion is necessary. A little light is visible
from balance-sheet figures: the co. has 46
passenger-carriers and nine vehicle ferries,
some very old. They are in the books at
£379,936, an average of £6906. The latest
additions alone would make a big hole in
the total, and the figure suggests that the
interests of shareholders are being effectively
protected against the time when Dorman,
Long and Co. hand over the great arch bridge
in nineteen-thirty something.
Consideration of depreciation docs not
exhaust the subject. There is the matter of
the capacity of the co.’s fleet and its non-
ferry investments to earn sufficient to con-
tinue 8 p.c. divs. to shareholders. The two
most profitable services—the short run to
Milson’s Point passenger and vehicular-
will go out, perhaps entirely. Some of the
other North Sydney runs will be affected,
but settlement on the north side is grow-
ing. and better service and new runs will
probably win more travellers. There will,
of course', be a sharp check on increases in
fares on most routes, for electric trains and
trams and ’buses will be strong competitors
from most points. Whether the co.’s other
investments will prove more profitable as
the years pass is a matter to some extent of
guesswork. In the latest accounts they
appear at. £217 600 —£107,000 “investments
in other cos.,” and £110,607 “money on loan,
Commonwealth war and peace loans, etc.”
That is a huge sum for a co. which is a
public utility to have invested outside the
business. It is unlikely that the larger
amount is returning 6 p.c., yet fare charges
are fixed on the basis of a return to share-
holders of 8 p.c. p.a. on the entire capital of
the co. Investments in other cos. represent
the subsidiary Harbor Land and Transport
Co., Ltd. Its assets should he worth much
more than the value at which the shares
appear in the Sydney Ferries’ books. (In
the 1919 investigation they were foifnd to
be worth 50 p.c. more.) No whisper is
heard of what the pup hands over but its
profits were probably as “satisfactory” as
those of the parent. Landed property
appeared at £115,125 —£23,793 greater. The
co.’s claim for the property resumed at Mil-
son’s Point has not yet been settled. When
payment is finally made it can be used to
reduce liabilities, which, under the influence
of the new ship purchases, increased con-
siderably :
1923. 1924. 1925. 1926.
Liabilities . . £41,727 £40,933 £60,274 £106,352
Landed property.. 92,277 91,755 91,333 115,125
Ship property . . 403,230 398,624 373,867 379,936
Wharfs and waiting-
rooms . . . . 43,885 41,079 37,773 45,327
Plant & machinery 3,362 3,785 4,395 9,133
Fuel & stores, etc: 14,021 12,657 12,229 14,447
Shares in other
cos 107,000 107,000 107,000 107,000
Sundry debtors . . 8,900 5,568 14,373 20,328
Public securities,
etc 48,489 60,422 110,616 110,607
Cash . . . . 3,033 8,830 2,693 2,829
An old steamer was sold during the year,
and that may have helped profits a trifle.
The liquid position was affected of course,
by the purchases :
1923. 1924. 1925. 1926.
Liquid assets . . £73,729 £86,705 £138,912 £146,897
Liabilities . . 41,726 40,933 60,274 106,352
Surplus .. £32,003 £45,772 £78,638 £40,545
The management appears to be making
adequate preparations against the falling off
which will follow the opening of the bridge,
and current profits are seemingly robust
enough to stand the strain. If ultimately it
proves inadequate it will not have been from
lack of “consideration.” Heavier labor con-
ditions were borne last year without a word
of complaint and increased provisions made,
yet the disclosed profit was within hundreds
of the previous year. Altogether, while
there is no likelihood of the div. ever going
beyond 8 p.c., there seem to be reasonable
grounds for believing that it will be main-
tained when the bridge comes. The market
is quite satisfied with the immediate outlook
at ieast; there have been sales at 235. 44d.
* * * *
The Wellington Trust, Loan and In-
vestment Co. (Wellington, M.L.) :
To Re- Re-
Dec., Profits. Dividends. serves, serves.
1917 .. £9,375 74p.c.= £9,375 £70,886
1918 .. 9,434 7*„ „ 9,375 £59 70,945
1919 .. 10,382 74 „ „ 9,375 1007 71,952
1920 .. 11,360 74,. ~ 9,375 1985 73,937
1921 .. 8,071 64 „ „ 8,125 73,883
1922 .. 8,031 64 „ „ 8,125 73,789
1923 .. 11,027 64 „ „ 8,125 j 7 „,
Written off property, £2168 J
1924 .. 11,402 7 4 p.c.= 9,375 2027 76,550
1925 . . 12,006 74 „ „ 9,375 2631 79,181
1926 .. 14,505 8 ~ ~ 10,000 4505 83,686
For the four years 1913-16 9 p.c. p.a. was
paid; apart from that, and back to the begin-
ning of the present century, only once did
the div. get beyond 8 p.c. But the growing
reserve is helping nowadays. Shareholders
have not had a rich time: although the co.
operates on a fairly big scale there has not
been a great deal in the business —not enough
considering that the co. has to take the risk
of investing so much outside money. As to
that risk, this table shows the figures :
1914. 1923. 1925. 1926.
Capital and
reserves .. £199,578 £203,898 £209,181 £214,311
Liabilities . . 359,788 338,289 343,555 347,009
Mortgages, etc. 524,621 483,849 484,479 488.971
Freeholds .. 12,923 12,460 1.0,960 10,960
Interest owing 7,337 7,378 6,857 6.924
Liquid assets. . 14,483 41,567 52,998 57,216
Last year interest paid moved up, and the
tax man opened his hand wider, but the man-
agement clipped a trifle off exes.:—
1918. 1924. 1925. 1926.
Income .. .. £33,702 £32.632 £33,069 £36,053
Interest on deposits,
etc 16,333 16,423 15,894 16,316
Management, etc.. . 2,159 2,364 2,573 2,443
Taxes . . . . 5,616 2,343 2,596 2,788
“We have not passed scathless through the
abnormal times of the last few years,” the
directors say, and they draw attention to
£2500 placed to a special reserve to jneet
possible depreciation on certain securities.
But the lift in the div. rate indicates that
they are not afraid of what is ahead. The
co. has been in the business for more than
half a century and should be in a position to
gauge the risks and provide accordingly. At
December 31 there was £37,998 in Govern-
ment stock (face value, £40,000) and £19,218
in deposits and cash plus £6924 interest
accrued. Deducting amounts owing and the
final div. there was £288,493 of deposits
against which were mortgages of £488,971
and premises in at £10,960. The margin of
safety for depositors looks wide. Indeed,
nothing particularly gloomy is visible; and
the substantial improvement in profits in the
last three years and last year particularly,
coupled with the present wide margin of pro-
fit over dividend, makes the shares (£lO paid
to £5) worth £6 9s. buyers.
* * * *
Newcastle-Wallsend Coal Co. (N. S
Wales) :
n _ Toße-
/refits. ' Dividends. serves. Reserves.
1916. . £10,041 5 p.c. = £lO,OOO £4l £62,158
21 ’ 600 5 » .. 16,000 11,600 73,758
1918.. 29,242 8f „ „ 17,500 11,742 85,500
1919.. 32,463 10 ~ „ 20,000 12,463 97 963
J 92 9- 49,199 10 ~ „ 20,565 28,625 126’588
1921.. 39,575 10 ~ ~ 24,549 15,026 141 614
Reserves disappear, £8437.. 133177
1922.. 24.118 10 p.c. = 25,000 ill’Hl
1923.. 38,645 10 ~ ~ 25.000 13,645 145 940
1924.. 57,787 10 ~ ” 25.000 32,787 178 727
1925.. 48,290 124 „ „ 31,250 17,040 395 767
1926.. 58.995 12i „ ” 31,250 27,745 223.’612
J ro claimed by the accounts amounted
to £31,250, sufficient to pay the div. without
any untidy remainder. But it is struck
“after making provision for depreciation,
etc., etc.,” and that explains the profit given
in the introductory table. Additions to the
various reserves amounted to £27,745; an-
other wad of that size will make the total
accumulations equal paid capital. On this
occasion there has been a shuffling of
reserves, the insurance reserve disappearing,
and Reserve No. 2 and reserve for renewals,
depreciation, etc., taking its place. It is
admitted that wastage of mine property has
also been provided for. Considering the seri-
ous curtailment of production due to the
colliery engine-drivers’ strike, and, later, the
wharfies’ “no overtime” strike, the co. did
very well to show such a result; the strike
in England helped a bit by sending a few
orders to Newcastle. Wastage is a serious
consideration to the average mining co.,
but there is little doubt that this keen man-
agement has erred on the right side in the
matter of providing for it. For instance,
“mines, minerals, surface lands, buildings,
railways, rolling-stock pits, tunnels, etc.,”
are in at £360,033, which looks like shrink-
ing modesty considering that the co. owns
four pits. Wallsend, Jesmond and Elermore
Tunnel, on. the Newcastle field, are all work-
ing. Wallsend—the biggest—was electri-
cally equipped only three years ago. Felton,
a modern pit on the Maitland field, has been
producing only since 1919. In- addition are
other fixed assets of value. Last year new
plant and equipment added a net £15,542
to the chief item, • liabilities were decreased
and the liquid position still further improved:
1923. 1924. 1925. 1926.
Liabilities .. £22,540 £12,486 £13,931 £6,719
Fixed assets.. 367,196 358,036 345,007 360,498
Liquid assets. . 63,414 95,217 133,441 138,484
Thus in the last three years, besides hand-
ing out the dividend, the co. has paid for a
great deal of equipment, reduced liabilities
by £15,821, and put by no less than £75,070
towards the purchase of new mines to replace;
those that have been drawn upon. The
market is keen about the scrip, and prices
of the £lO shares have advanced steadily,
latest sale being at £l7. Incidentally, it
might be pointed out to the mine-workers
that shipments of coal from Newcastle for
1926 to places outside the State fell off
by a quarter-million tons.
* * * *
The New Zealand Refrigerating Co.,
Ltd., formerly the Christchurch Meat Co.,
one of the big freezing concerns of Maori-
land: —
To Re-
Oct., Profits. Dividends. serves. Reserves.
1916. . £44,851 12 p.c. = £20,307 £24,544 £195,163
Premiums on shares . . 31,400 226,568
1917.. 53,948 12 p.c. = 20,575 33,373 259,941
1918.. 66,479 14 „ „ 41,100 25,379 285,320
£50,000 of . internal reserves disclosed ]
£300,000 of reserves transferred to capital ) 60,320
1919.. 147,940 161 p.c. = 75,000 72,940 108,260
1920.. 80,802 124 „ „ 75,000 5,502 114,062
1921.. 48,727 8 „ ~ 48,000 727 114,789
1922.. 48,484 6j „ „ 37,500 10,984 125,773
1923.. 49,103 6j „ „ 37,500 11,603 137,376
1924.. 59,163 6} „ „ 37,500 21,663 159,039
1925.. 38,329 61 „ „ 37,500 829 159,868
Goodwill item, £36,310 . . . . . . 123,558
Written off goodwill, £12,103 .. .. 135,661
Loss.
1926.. 7,412 Nil 128,249
This is the first occasion on which this
Column has record that shareholders have
got nothing more satisfying than apologies.
Past years have been a succession of rich
returns, with some almost embarrassing war-
time opulence. The co. did well to show
such good profits in 1925, although it was
relatively its worst term. Maoriland Freez-
ing cos. had been having a rough time, but
N. Z. Refrigerating had been comparatively
fortunate. Then “keen competition for the
purchase of stock and unfavorable markets
for nearly all the co.’s products, due to the
decreased demand during the English coal
strike,” was the culmination of a long list of
troubles. With a paid capital of £636,310,
even the modest-looking 6| p.c. of the last
few years calls for a big sum, and the
cautious directorate decided that, as some of
the unsound features of the trade still remain,
conservation of the co.’s resources is the
better policy. Although the co. operates in
one of the best mutton-producing areas in
the world, that advantage is of little value
when economic conditions limit markets or
competition renders prices unprofitable. How-
ever, the co. is well placed to profit from
a:.y improvement overseas :
1915. 1920. 1925. 1926.
Liabilities . . £307,385 £635,346 £699,379 £730,799
Fixed assets.. 273,522 852,674 755,545 771,103
Other assets . . 542,587 534,233 726,201 724,256
Liabilities include “provision for depreciation
of investments and for contingencies”—
amount unspecified. There is £150.000 of
debenture debt. Assets include a debenture
on Pukeuri freezing works which the co. sold
in 1922 to the Waitaki Farmers’ Freezing
Co., Ltd,; at £132,500 it is down £lO,OOO.
During the year the co. bought the greater
part of the buildings and plant of the Wan-
ganui Meat Freezing Co., Ltd., for £40,000
and 36,310 fully-paid £1 shares. The build-
ings were sold to the Harbor Board for
£30,000, and the plant transferred to the
co.’s works. “As the shares [exchanged for
N. Z. F. Co.’s] and goodwill of the Wan-
ganui Co. have no saleable value,” the direc-
tors wisely decided to clear the item out of
the accounts as soon as possible; a third was
written off during the term.
* * * *
The Newcastle and Hunter River
Steamship Co., Ltd. (N.S.W.) :
To Re- Re-
Dec.. Profits. Dividends. serves. serves
1916.. £24,652 9 p.c. = £9,000 £15,652 £126 031
1917.. 9,948 9 „„ 9,000 948 12098'
191 S. . 14,530 10 ~,, 10,000 4,530 131 511
1919.. 10,012 10 „,, 10,000 12 ), ’
Written off, £17,495 J 714,028
Reserves capitalised, £50,000 .. 64 o°B
1920.. 29,210 10p.c.= 15,000 t 1QOr „
Written off contingencies, £248 ) 1i5 .96- 77,990
1921.. 23,937 10 p.c. = 15,000 ( Q o
Written off, £42 \ 8 > 895 80,885
1922.. 20,291 10 p.c. = 15,000 5,291 92,176
1923.. 19.281 10 „ ~ 15,000 4,281 96,457
1924.. 28,892 10 „ ~15,000 13,892 110,349
1925.. 29,420 10 „ „ 15,000 14,420 124,769
1920.. 29,744 10 ~ ~ 15,000 14,744 189,513
Trade was affected by drought in the Hunter
River district, but the effect on earnings
was not serious. ■ Not that the amount
shown in the table as the profit for the 12
months is the same as that claimed by the
accounts: “Net profit for the year, after
providing for depreciation, insurance, etc.,
amounted to £15,033,” says the report—
only £33 more than was necessary to pay the
10 p.c. But £14,711 was dropped without
comment into reserves, lifting those accumu-
lations (plus £255 undistributed P. and L.
balance) to £139,513. Given similar results
for the current term, reserves will exceed
paid capital when shareholders next receive
their balance-sheets. Indeed, the position
at December 31 may have been even better
than the table suggests : no hint is given of
the amount provided for depreciation. On
this occasion the ship property is in at the
same figure as it was a year ago; but in
the past the co. always did the providing
with a liberal hand, and that good habit
is not likely to have been suddenly broken.
The chances are, therefore, that during the
term considerable sums were spent on the
fleet and written off. Much of the richness
of recent years is the result of the abstinence
of old holders, who for a long time had
to be content with a very modest 6 p.c. p.a.
The, liquid position further improved:—
1094 1Q95 IQ9fi
Liabilities .. .. £17,177 £17,356 £19,650
Ship property . . . . 147,560 145,560 145,560
Freeholds and leaseholds 15,984 15,984 15,444
Plant, stores, etc. . . 8,280 9,150 9,053
Book debts . . . . 19,522 17,867 20,085
Cash, etc 93,884 111,064 126,521
Allowing for outside liabilities and the final
div., shareholders can see 15s. lid. per share
liquid, and the w T ritten-down value of the
ships and other fixed assets is equal to
another 225. Bd. per share. Goodwill, too,
certainly is worth something, as Newcastle
steadily grows in industrial importance.
However, apart from that, there is 38s. 7d.
per share visible. The strong position has
impressed the market, which patiently awaits
the plum that it considers is due. There are
buyers at 41s. fid. ex div.; Is. fid. more than
sales of a year ago.
* * * *
The N.S.W. Associated Blue Metal
Quarries, Ltd., which paid £15,800 in 10
p.c. prefs. and £54,055 in ordinaries for the
assets and business of the N.S.W. Blue
Metal Go., Ltd., and spent £3862 on flota-
tion :
Nomi-
r* Dividends x To Re nal Re-
Nov., Profits. Pref. Old. Total, serves, serves.
1922. . £14,777 10 p.c. 10 p.c. £10,299 £4478 £615
1923.. 16,349 10 „ 10 ~ 11,824 4525 5,140
1924.. 18,449 10 „ 10 „ 15,000 3449 8,589
1925.. 20,815 10 „ 10 „ 18,193 2622 11,211
1926.. 25,808 10 ~ 10 ~ 19,462 6346 17,*7
Everything depends on the valuation placed
on the fixed assets, and that is largely a
matter of guess-work. A quarry worth
£56,000 in an age of concrete might be dear
at 50s. under the influence of some new
development in building and construction.
Fortunately for this co., the concrete age
seems to have only just started in earnest.
Regarding depreciation of plant and
machinery, the equipment of the co.’s three
quarries—Prospect, Minnamurra and Bombo
—has mopped up a lot of capital, the last
of the plant at Prospect being installed only
a year ago. Supplies of basalt are described
as “inexhaustible,” so that that point does
net enter seriously into consideration.
“Quarry, freehold, leases and plant” were in
at £216,971 (£9226 increase) at November
30. Early in the term £16,150 of new
capital was got in. In addition to purchases
of equipment, the new money was used to
reduce liabilities:—
1923. 1924. 1925. 1926.
Owing on Minna-
murra .. £16,275 £11,625 £6,975 £2,325
Overdraft . . 1,614 20,352 27,104 20,662
Other creditors . . 6,518 14,726 16,114 15,783
Fixed assets . . 131,840 177,915 208,129 217,371
Stocks . . . . 3,651 3,806 5,179 3,099
Book debts . . 25,735 30,513 44,005 48.983
Cash and sundries 909 3,869 633 2,375
Now that the co has equipped its quarries
with labor-saving machinery, revenue figures
should expand: in view of the activity in
building and construction and the State's
general prosperity—real and artificial —
increasing demand for blue metal seems
assured. According to the report business for


THE CHOICE OF
INVESTMENTS
HOW TO PICK THEM.
See
"Wildcat' Monthly”
for February.
Available at all principal
Newsagents, or direct from
“The Bulletin” Offices,
Sydney and Melbourne,
Price 2/-
AVe stock + GF -f- Malleable Fittings to suit
every requirement, and as there are over 7500
varieties tb choose from, we can accommodate any
trade. For water, steam or gas. AVill not split or
crack, and are correct in every detail. Obtainable
fiom AVilliam Adams & Co., Ltd., Sole Agents,
Sydney, Newcastle, Melbourne, Brisbane, Adelaide,
Berth. — -Advt.
There is no waste of either water or materials in
;he utilisation of Pioneer AVood Pipe, for all water
schemes. It cannot rust nor corrode, is immune from
internal tubercular growths, and from rust and cor-
rosion. It consistently maintains full-flow delivery,
and is practically indestructible. Cheap to buy,
transport, instal and maintain, Pioneer Wood Pipe
is equally efficient for both permanent and temporary
systems. The Australian Wood Pipe Co., Ltd.,
Burns Bay Road, Lane Cove, N.S.W. — Advt.
Patents. —Have you an idea worth patenting?
Griffith & Hassel, Patent Attorney, 77 Castlereagh
Street, Sydney," obtain Commonwealth and foreign
patents.— Advt.
* * * *
IDU AS —Commonwealth and Foreign Patents
obtained. Colmson & Co., 483 Collins Street, Mel-
bourne. and Adelaide. Thirty yeais’ practice. Write
Us for Inventors’. Guide. — Advt.
* * * *
Are you interested in concrete mixing, etc.?
Arthur Leplastricr & Co. Pty., Ltd., Goldsbrough
House Sydney; Collins House, Collins Street, Mel-
bourne; 164' Edward Street, Brisbane; and 29
Morphett Street, Adelaide—manufacture in Australia,
the famous “Multimix” Drum-type Concrete Mixers
from small to very large sizes, and now cater for
the small user with their “Tiltamix” One-man
One-barrowload Tilting-type Mixer. AVrite, wire or
telephone for full particulars to the nearest branch
of this Concrete Mixing Specialty Firm.— Advt.
* * * *
A high class line of Italian Microscopes, known as
the “Koristka,” pronounced by eminent authorities to
be equal to the best German instruments, are now
beiim offered by Messrs. Felton, Grimwade & Co.
ptv ° Ltd,, Melbourne, who have been appointed
sole” Australian agents. Inquiries will he promptly
responded to.— Advt.
*'* * *
Hydraulic Power Electric and Hydraulic Lifts
Limited (incorporated by Act of Parliament,
1888), hydraulic, electric and general engineers, lift
specialists. Maintenanc e and repairs of .all classes of
lifts and other machinery. Mercantile Mutual Build-
ing, 14 Martin Place. Sydney.— Advt.
Agents Wanted.
WANTED, a Melbourne firm of share-
brokers (must be members of the Mel-
bourne Stock Exchange) to act as Agents
for a reliable firm in Eastern Asia. Apply
N Y./., c/o Tiie Bulletin.
FIRM FOUNDATIONS
Most desirable of all virtues in a trustee or executor are permanence and security
service associated with wide experience in trust matters.
The work demands both integrity and experience in the highest degree.
in
The Permanent Trustee Company
OF N.S.W., LTD.,
die, travel or disappear. .Security is afforded by a special Act of Pa • ilabl for
the wh.de of the Company’s capital and assets, exceeding one million pounds,
the protection of clients’ interests. nharsre Corpus
A most important feature of this Company’s service is its practice °
Commission until the trust becomes distributable.
Estates under control exceed £11.000,000.
Arrange an interview now, or write lor booklet vent post free on toque
ALFRED G. MILSON.
LIEUT.-COL. T. F. RUTLEDGE.
F,
DIRECTORS:
JJ. YARWOOD
(Chairman)*
JAMES MOIR.
THOS. BUCKLAND.
J. \V. BARNES. Manager.
E. V. T. WHITTLE, Assistant Manager.
25 O’CONNELL STREET, SYDNEY.
The Patent Indestructible
Garbage Destructor
Is the only Incinerator which is
everlasting and satisfactory,
odorless, smokeless.
OUR NEW CATALOGUE CONTAINS
INCONTESTABLE PROOFS.
a
EZjfMKH W
guthridge, limited
10 PARRAMATTA ROAD, CAMPERDOWN.
’Phone: L 2715.
last term improved; and improvement isnt
amiss. A 10 p.c. div. now calls for ±-0.000,
and until last year that figure was only once
just reached by the profit. Nor can we
reasonably expect the present boom in con-
struction to last; it is based chiefly on
loans, and there is a limit to them somewhere.
.Venntime, however, big road construction
campaigns are under way or proposed, and
the demolition of city blocks to make way
for concrete-steel skyscrapers continues un-
abated; and if the co. doesn t make hay
while the sun shines it never will. The mar-
ket considers 265. a fair price for the ±1
shares. * * »
Ajax gold co., Daylesford (Vic.), still pegs
away at the production of real gold, last
month’s return being 183 oz. from 810 tons,
or 4klwt. per ton. Tributors provided 650 z.
of this yield from 150 tons, or Bgdwt. per
ton The tributors are following a body ot
stone and mixed gangue 25ft. wide in new
country. The formation carries coarse gold.
These stopes are on No. 0 level, and on
No. 5 level stone on the new formation is
being broken. # *
Lon don-control led North White Feather
Co. (W.A.) announces its third reconstruc-
tion. This time shareholders are offered a
4s. share carrying a liability of Is. 6d. in the
new co. for every share held in the old. Lius
show was once a flourishing gold-producer,
but the best ore was soon extracted, feince
then its working has benefited the State, but
not shareholders. Some time ago a mining
man who inspected the property on behalf of
the board predicted a profitable future, but
events thus far have proved him an optimist.
* * * *
Mutooroo Copper Corporation, which lias
probably held and turned down more options
than any other Australian mining co., is now
trying its luck at Mount Vernon, 40 miles
south of Wiluna (W.A.). An option has been
taken on a goldmine in this locality which
is reported to look well so far as it has
been opened up—which isn’t much.
* * * *
Freney Kimberley Oil Co. (W.A.) whooped
the other day on receipt of the first instal-
ment of its £22.500 Federal boring subsidy.
A test hole was commenced some months
aeo at Poole Range in anticipation of getting
this subsidy, and the bore is already down
800 ft. in country where geologists reckon the
co. has the best chance of success. The co.
intends to continue boring to 4000 ft., and is
confident that it will strike oil in commercial
quantities. The market is positive that it
won’t.
* * * *
The Westralian public is being invited to
take an interest in Great Beacon —the first of
the Glenelg Hills new-find leases to be floated.
The show is said to contain an ore body
which the prospectus modestly states is pay-
able as far as developed. It is expected that
the Glenelg Queen, on which Jack McDer-
mott and some London friends hold an option,
will be marketed shortly. The first crushing,
though too small to determine the real value
of the property, was impressive enough to
cause holders of surrounding leases to demand
much higher considerations for options.
* * * *
Rich crushings are not frequent on the
Westralian goldfields nowadays, consequently
two in a week caused some excitement. One
of .31 \ tons from the Golden Age at Menzies
yielded 4180 z., and the other, from the Main-
land Consols near Cue, returned 408 oz. from
15i tons, which had previously yielded 431 oz.
by dollying. Both these shows were once
prolific producers, but went wrong at depth,
and for years were idle. The Mainland had
a wonderfullv rich pocket near the surface
from which about 20,0000 z. was obtained.
* * * *
Radio South Co. lias left Manxman (W.A.)
and gone to New Guinea, where two outland-
ish dredginv areas have been pegged on its
behalf. The co. was floated in Adelaide dur-
ing the height of the Radio boom to acquire
a block adjoining the Radio; it was alleged
to have the continuation of the Radio’s small
but rich shoot. Developmental work, how-
ever, showed that it hadn’t, and insiders got
out.
* * * *
Lately it has been rumored that an Eng-
lish co., the Paringa Mining and Explora-
tion, is likely to start at Morwell (Vic.)
to make briquettes and produce oils, dyes
and coke. Baragwanath, head of Vic. Mines
Department, has stated that the 10 to 12
gallons of oil in brown coal would not pay
to extract. Under existing labor conditions
it is most probably so. But improvements
in treatment are always possible.
The Duke. Ravenswood (N.Q.), is paying
its way and a bit over at present on about
four inches of stone averaging around 6±oz.
The best stone at present is in No. 6 south,
where there is a length of 60 feet averaging
six inches of high-grade ore. The co. has
£5OO in hand from the Government towards
prospecting for the main hanging wall shoot
which is cut off by the big fault at the end of
No. 6 south. The search for this has been
abandoned for the time being, but if the
present reef carries on good stone to the fault
there will be a double incentive to try this
area of maiden ground. About 10 tons a
fortnight is being hauled at present, includ-
ing a fair percentage of prill ore.
Great Northern Tin. at Herberton (N.Q.),
is still searching at the 380 ft. level for the
rich shoot that was worked there last year,
but so far nothing has turned up. This cut
out on a porphyry dyke and it is just possible
that the co. has had the lot already. Pros-
pects look poor at present, but leaders carry-
ing a little tin are being followed at l->ott.
and 200 ft. in the hope of further shoots
turning up. Take most of the Herberton
mines the G.N. is capricious.
* * * *
Pattani Consolidated Alluvial Tin, with a
capital of £160,000 in 640.000 shares of ss.
each, to work an area in Pattani (Siam) by
bucket dredging, as well as hydraulic sluic-
ing, has been successfully floated in London,
w. 11. Corbould. of Mount Isa. is a member
of the London board, and Alluvial Tin are
the consulting engineers.
* * * *
Thawbaleik is proving no exception to the
rule, and is getting its full issue of dredge
troubles. In its second month it managed to
handle only 42.000 yards. Certainly the
values were good, but one wonders what is
the reason for the low yardage; is it the
shallow depth? To justify a capitalisation of
more than half a million, the Thawbaleik
dredge must turn over more than 40,000yds.
a month.
* * * *
Malaya is not the only overseas area to
which the enterprising Australian has turned
in search of tin. The Tasmanian Niger Min-
ing Co. holds interests in Nigeria, and share-
holders last week considered a report from
field-manager Willoughby Smith. This states
that an old river lead has been located, and
that prospecting has so far “proved” 1100
tons of tin, though on what yardage is not
stated. The Niger Co. is to carry on with
prospecting over tlie 12 sq. miles it holds
under lease and license, and a new company
will be floated in Australia to work the de-
posits already located. Nigeria has been
turning out an increasing quantity of tin for
some years past—figures as far back as ' L)2o
were 6000 tons, nearly three times those
for Australia. Now that new ventures are
opening up the deposits, and modern plant
supersedes the old hand-working methods, the
world’s tin output should climb at an acceler-
ated rate.
* * * *
New Guinea Gold and Osmiridium, one of
the many concerns born of the Bulolo finds,
has been taking matters rather more eaunily
than some of its contemporaries. It lias
acquired some half-dozen dredging and sluic-
ing leases, three at least of which are below
the confluence of the rich Edie Creek and
the Bulolo River. It is reported that flying
experts have been dispatched to map out land-
ing grounds and erect an aerodrome. H. W.
Clark, an old Papuan hand, who is the co. s
engineer, goes to London next month to super-
vise arrangements for the co.’s formal flota-
tion. In the meantime, an experienced N.G.
prospector is to be sent into new ground
beyond Edie Creek, where good indications
have been noted. So far, matters seem very
much in the air, in spite of the implied con-
fidence of the promoters. The public is in
the dark as far as prospects, values, etc., are
concerned, but will, no doubt, be enlightened
when asked to take up shares. Osmiridium
was found in fairly large quantities, associ-
ated with free gold, in both tlie Yoclda. and
Gira fields in Papua, a hundred miles or so
south of the Bulolo. For years it was thrown
away, its value being unknown, save to one
or two who had found private buyers in
Sydney and kept the good thing to them-
selves. In later and wiser days, some fine
clean-ups were made, and the heavy stuff may
be found on the higher ground.
Phin Soon Tin. not so long ago scoflingly
referred to by its critics as a mere open-cut
show, has had a good run with its dredge
for January. In 208 hours, 18,764 yards
went through for 15 k tons of tin oxide or
close to I.Blb. per yard. All the same, Phin
Soon has been very thoroughly gone over m
the past by Chinese, and the quality. all
through wliat is now a dredging proposition
cannot be expected to measure up to that.
There are plenty of rich patches left, no
doubt, and the dredge is probably in one of
them now, but leaner intervals may be ex-
pected from time to time.
-X- * * *
The attempt to establish mule transport
between the coast and the Bulolo gold-
field in New Guinea lias failed, as
did a similar scheme in n.-e. Papua
years ago. The experimenters, all of whom
hailed from Cairns (N.Q.), where something
is known of pack-trains in mountain country,
have returned, having lost all tlieir mules in
the almost inaccessible country. Something
might be done by elaborate road-cutting along
the precipitous sidings, and by bridging the
cliasm-like ravines with something more prac-
ticable than a single log. This would need
a horde of native labor and a vast expendi-
ture. The one is not available, and the other
is impracticable, for tlie field, as known at
present, already shows signs of petering out.
It is an old story in the mouths of return-
ing and disillusioned diggers, but whatever
the future prospects of the field as a golu-
producer there can be no doubt at all as to
its inaccessibility. The only hope seems to
be the aeroplane.
* * * *
The Government of the F.M.B. is consider-
ing a proposition which should have a lot
of interest for Australian tin speculators
the utilisation of the Perak River for gener-
ating electricity. It is estimated that nearly
‘lO,OOO kilowatts of power could be obtained.
As far as the present dredges go, it is antici-
pated that the scheme would reduce work-
ing costs by 30 p.c., and some of the cos.
should welcome it on that ground alone. Ihe
open-cast and gravel-pump areas, mostly
worked by Chinese employing band labor, are
also expected to benefit, while the reduced
cost is expected to increase the number of
dredges. If all that comes to pass, we may
expect a still greater increase in the output
of tin. What effect that would have, on
present tin prices is worth taking into con-
sideration by the optimists who are giving
their present high value's to Malayan tin
shares. # ,
Malay returns for Januarv show in-and-
out performances, though dredge-stoppages,
as at Rawang, which only got going again
on January 24, were occasionally blamable.
Rawang dredge worked only 33 hours to
recover four tons of oxide from 10,000 c.y.
The sluicing plant, which was also held up
most of the month, cleaned up 30 tons from
55,000 vards. Total recovery, 34 tons, as
against 83 tons for December. Kampoug
Kamunting, 58 tons from 133,000 yards, out-
did its performance of 42 tons m December,
while Ulu Yam, working less than half time,
put through 114.000 yards for 32 tons. Malim
I\awar South had a good running average
with 152,000 yards in 576 hours, hut only
40 tons of tin was got. Tliabawleik aver-
aged high, 32 tons from 42.000 yards; it is
setting a rare example by living up to its
prospectus estimates. Kundang, with It
tons from 60,000 yards, didn't, maintain its
average for the first half of the _ month.
Only a couple of the above propositions are
showing lb. per yard, but, undeterred by this
fact, high valuing still goes gaily on, some
recent estimates ranging from 16oz. to 48oz.
* * * *
“Tidapa’s” word for it: —
A. Kirkwood, a tin expert back from Malay
States, says the Chinese own a large number of
the smaller mining plants and are generally doing
well. They always have been. T have been twice
through Malaya," once before the Australian com-
panies dug in, when coolies’ wages were very low
and always eaten up by a contra account for rice
and fish at the tuck-shop. Kirkwood speaks of the
Chinese as entering; the tinmining industry in
large numbers and as being serious competitor*.
For probably hundreds of years the Chinese have
been tinmining in the Malay States and the adja-
cent islands. I met a Chinese at the Singapore
Club who told me after our third whisky-stengali
that he drew £75,000 a year from a tinmihe on
the island of Billiton, where our boat had called.
The Chinese are working the low-grade tin deposits,
having sold most of the high-grade mines to London
and to Australian companies. Mining costs are
increasing in Malaya and Siam and profits are
sure to be affected. If rubber booms, the coolies
will desert the tinmines to go and work on the
rubber plantations for higher wages. Kirkwood
says the Americans are installing’ American plants
and crowding many of the smaller mines out of the
industry. I don’t think the Yanks can get control
of the tin industry of the F.M.S., because the British
High Commissioner, with the support of his Council
of State, composed of rajahs, chiefs and towkay
Chinese, exercises wide powers. Some years ago,
an American company built smelting woiks in
opposition to the Straits Trading Co., which owned
# the only customs smelting works and bought most
of the tin of the Straits Settlements and Fede-
rated Malay States. The British company com-
plained and an order-in-council prevented the
Americans opening their refinery or buying any
tin. So the Yanks dropped their bundle. It can
easily happen again if they try to hustle the
British tin cos.
* * *
Sumatra Tin Concessions bus ah option
over 75,000 acres in Sumatra— approximately
120 square miles. Sumatra is an entirely
new proposition as far as tin dredging is
concerned, and to date no boring or
other prospecting reports have been puD-
lislied; all that is known is that the co. s
engineers arc looking for payable dredging
land Nevertheless the ss. shares were last
week quoted at 225. The tin dredging pun-
ter is certainly in a class by himself as a
super-optimist. * ,
A note from London: —
A year ago osmiridium was selling for nearly £3O
an ounce on the Tas. fields. The price in London
is now £l3, and nominal at that, as sellers pre-
ponderate. The main causes of the flop in prices
are: (1) The platinum mines in Russia are again
in full working (the metal contains 2* p.c. of
osmiridium). Output is large, and the Soviet Gov-
ernment is accepting low prices for the metal. It
is rumored that large stocks are held in Russia await-
ing a market; (2) although the S’African output
has fallen slightly the market is sitting tight to
see which way the cat will jump, as many platinum-
inines are going t.O instal new Krupp ’ plant for
extracting osmiridium from complex platinum ores
that heretofore have defied treatment. *"> Afncan
platinum producers are talking of forming a combine
with a view to controlling output, but with Russia
a free seller the value of such a combine would be
nil; (3) one big London metallurgical firm is now
turning out synthetic osmiridium for pen-points. It
may be impossible to make a satisfactory substitute
for the metal, but even so the synthetic article
spoils the market for the time being.
* * * *
“Oil Shaler”
For some time past British and American oil cos.
have been buying and taking options over oil-shale
lands chiefly in North America. Recent news is that
progress is being made in the retorting of oil from
oil shale in the mid-continental .States of the U.S.A.
with greatly improved retorts. But the latest im-
provement of all has been made by a famous Gei map
firm, Julius Pintsch, of Berlin, so long known in
“the field of gas generation. The outstanding feature
of the Pintsch process appears to be the combination
of gas generator and retort in one piece of apparatus,
using the fixed carbon in the retorted shale as gene-
rator fuel. In this way a gaseous fuel is obtained
from the shale which serves to supply the heat for
all the purposes of the plant. Reports seem to point
to the Tasmanian shales as very suitable for treat-
ment by this process.


Dad *no Mum wont miss »t .
Neither \niu_ Sam The Swa^qie
AvNqther. Roy/u-fViR.
ik AcrreMOMNce.
A.&auu turns mm nonest psk^,
ML RSPISESEMT&.WE
There vnm_l &e no this crowd, however ,
TO MEET THE DUKE AND DUCHESS.
“It must not be forgotten that many more people than those who will travel by motor-car with snecial invitations in their nnekoto -mui ~
types of representative citizens’ than those who arc well dressed will hasten to the opening of the National Parliament to welcome thfffuke and b nneh£ anb A rr t M f Twhe
Royal pair will be glad to meet these representatives of actual Australia.” —Daily paper . “ Duchess. And, no doubt, the


ffyou consider Quality-
you must ask for
f?\r Q Three Threes
ARDATH TOBACCO COt LTD-. LONDON.
SOCIETY
"and it's
printed with
WIMBLE'S INKS”
“Carisbrook, Jun.”: A little nurse at one
of the Brisbane maternity hospitals was off
duty till midnight and spending the flying
hours with her “boy.” “Heavens! ’ she said,
glancing at her watch, “it’s five to twelve —
whatever shall I do?” The young man
promptly hailed a taxi. “To the Mater-
nity Hospital as quick as you can, he
directed, and started to bundle the lad*
inside. But the driver didn’t want that sort
of fare, and firmly kept a grip on the handle
of the door. “No, Missis, not in my car!
he objected gruffly.
“Ex-Dig.”: There died the other day a man
who enlisted in. the A.I.F. nine times, but
never went away and never intended to go.
NO EXTRAS.
FOND MOTHER: “Ronnie's not afraid of going into hospital to have his tonsils removed-
are you, Ronnie dear
RONNIE: “Ooh, no. But I won’t stand any tricks. I'm not going to let them palm a
baby on me like they did on you when you were theRe, Mum.!"
An objecting wife was always allowed to
“pull out” a husband who had enlisted; and
this one’s better-half was required to exer-
cise her privilege as often as hubby felt
his war ardor cooling. After which the hero
would complain bitterly of how his wife had
prevented him from dashing into the fray.
I recall another pot-valiant person who would
enlist when drunk, and, when sober, compel
his wife to extricate him. But the lady
proved to be not so accommodating as the
other wife. After her consort’s fifth enlist-
ment she bolted to her mother, telling him
that the war was the best place for him, and
that he could stay put. He was ravingr bit-
terly about wifely treachery whilst other
Diggers lugged him (lie had to be shang-
haied) to his transport. #
“Retired Lunatic” : It is thought possible
that the person who is burning Melbourne
down by instalments is the victim of ai
obsession, like the maniac who set fireto
50 hedges in St. Kilda last year. After
the hedge fires had proceeded for some time,
it dawned on the police that the miscreant
had a derry on only one type of hedge, an
the theory was advanced that he was a
crazed ex-gardener whose soul _ had been
poisoned by a lifetime spent m clipping
that particular kind of garden shelter. Ihe
city fire-bug sets fire to dustbins in the real
of ' city premises at the week-ends or on
holidays, which suggests that he is in a steady
job, even if he does take his pleasures madly.
He also shows a predilection for destroying
Australian manufactories. One theory is
that lie is a foreign-trader; maddened by
recent additions to the tariff.
* * *
“Spur”: The memory of some chaps! _ I
had to sprint to catch a tram out Randwick
way, and although I am getting up m years
I flatter myself that I put in a few strides
in the form of my youth. As I jumped on
board I caught the eye of a man who
seemed interested in my gallop. Ever "f el l
in Maoriland?” he asked. I admitted that
I had and waited for the nips to be put in.
“Did a bit of running?” said he. Yes,
I replied, relaxing my wariness a little-
“ Didn’t you win the Feilding Mile m J.i.
“I did.” “Thought I remembered that action
when you were running for the tram.” He
didn’t have to say another word.
* * * *
“Munga”: The par. about the Earl of
Stradbroke on tour (B. 20/l/’27) reminds
me that, travelling to Daly Waters m Octo-
ber, 1924. I met the Katherine mail at
Roderick’s bore, and was surprised to see
a lady on the box. Old Mac was unyoking
for lunch. “Who’s the lady passenger? I
asked. “That’s Miss Bridges, the Gover-
nor's sister,” Mac replied importantly.
“How do you get on with her?” I proceeded.
“All right,” Mac said; “she washes up after
every meal.”
* * * *
“S.W.H.”: “X.N.0.” asks (B. 27/1/27)
why the wireless operator is always singled
out for special interview and mention by
pressmen who are writing up stories of ship-
ping mishaps. As an old shipping reporter
I can give him the reason, a very simple one.
Ships’ officers are chary of opening their
mouths about any incident of a voyage,
sheltering themselves behind the old man s
orders. The radio man is in a different
position. He is supplied to the ship, as part
of the wireless installation, by the Marconi
company, and is not directly under the cap-
tain’s command, although, of course, the
skipper is really in charge, of every person
on board. Hence Sparks is generally found
ready to give all the details required. Dozens
of times I have been told by the officers.
“Sorry, old man. the skipper says we must
not say a word about it. See Marconi—he 11
probably tell you.” And nine times out ot
ten he did and does.
Governor George Bowen (Vic.),
the one who signed the Black Wednesday
sacking proclamations, was responsible tor
the yarn, still repeated by old politicians, as
to the manner in which Government House,
Melbourne, got its spacious ballroom. The
Minister for Public Works of the day, accord-
ing to Bowen, asked the architect what was
tne largest regal or vice-regal ballroom m
the British Empire. The architect replied
that Buckingham Palace held pride of place,
“Then make ours one-tliird larger, said the
Minister grandly. Labor was pretty cheap
in those days, and there was no “go slow.
“Rytt”: The R. O. Church at Mount
Somers, which is in the locally-optioned dry
district of Ashburton (MX.), got itself into
debt, and a parishioner who knew the district
better than the priest suggested that the best
wav of raising the debt was to raffle a case
oi whisky. So they raffled the accursed
stuff, under the name of home comforts,
and it was won. as bad luck would have it,
by a lady member of the congregation who
HAVE IT YOUR OWN WAY.
“About that nut omelette I thought I ordered—did I forget or
have you?”
had no more use for a gallon of whisky than
she had for a theodolite. The parishioner
who had suggested the rash scheme took the
stuff off her hands and paid her £b tor it.
The next act in the drama was played in
the police court, where the padre was lined
£l5 for dealing in a contraband article. Ihe
magistrate reserved sentence on the pansli-
ioner who bought the alcohol. It is rumored
that he is looking into Edward VI. and John
I. to see if torture is still legal. #
“C.Q.”: A gigantic Queenslander caused
a sensation in a Melbourne street the other
morning. The day was warm, and Ins way
was hard, so he lay
down by the tram-
track and had a doze.
Several policemen and
scores of small boys
and voluntary helpers
reasoned with him, but
without avail. A by-
stander tried forcible
persuasion, and the
Queenslander arose and
retaliated to such effect
that the ambulance had
to be called. Then he
subsided and went to
sleep again. A queue
of blocked tramcars
was now awaiting his
pleasure, so the police
decided on strong
measures. They sent
for a man with a re-
volver, who crept up
behind the sleeper and
despatched him. lie was a prime, bullock on
his way to the Richmond abattoirs.
* * * *
“Nikko” : There’s one place where a rescue
at sea is not attempted unless in extraordi-
narily calm weather, and that is the Manukau
Bar, on the west coast of Maoriland. The
Manukau earned a sinister reputation when
it became the grave of H.M.S. Orpheus some-
where in the ’sixties, with great loss ot life,
and since then no vessel of big tonnage has
tried to negotiate what is now acknowledged
as the heaviest bar in the world. The small
steamer Rimu, a special west-coast bar boat,
goes in and out the Manukau with the grey
seas mountains high, and lias been buried
in a following sea to within a few feet ot the
top of her masts. Pigs, sheep and general
cargo all disappear at such times Not long
ago the first mate in a lurch fell head-first
off the. bridge, and a Norwegian sailor, a
champion swimmer, was washed overboard.
No attempt was made to rescue them; the
small ship raced for her life in the big seas.
When men go overboard on the bar there is
no possibility of saving them. #
“Fitz” : At least two bullocks have been
roasted whole on the Hawkesbury since the
culinary effort recorded as having taken
place some 40 years ago at v^r pool (B.
27/l/’27). One was roasted at Pitt -Lown,
in honor of the election of the late William
Morgan, who represented the Hawkesbury
for two or three terms; the other met its
fate at Enfield, North Richmond, I believe
in honor of Brinsley Hall, who helped
Morgan into the State House and later
helped him out. The fat beasts were cooked
to a turn on both occasions, and great was
the gathering—and still greater the combined
appetite. * * *
“No-aboni”: I have seen the ceremony of
“piping the side” performed for a mere
lieutenant, dental
and newly-joined at
that. The quarter-
master saw what
he took for a flag
officer standing in
the sternslieets of
the picket boat as
it came alongside,
and so informed the
officer of the watch.
The quarter-
deck was warned
to attention and
the q.m. started to
trill his pipe, only
to let it die into an
absurd whistle as
the unadorned cap
of the boarding offi-
cer rose clear of
the ship’s side. The
orange cloth be-
tween the two
stripes on the sur-
geon-dentist’s sleeve
was of a yellowish
hue that almost
matched the gold
lace, giving it the
appearance of a
commodore’s broad
stripe. Seagoing-
dentists were a re-
cent addition to the
Navy at that time.
The q.m.’s face,
when he realised
his blunder, was a
fine study in conflicting emotions.
* * * *
“FY7”: Because jurors are intimidated
and juries won’t convict, the Queensland
Government is depriving Innisfail of Circuit
Court sittings. This is the North Queens-
land sugar town once known as Geraldton,
and of late years colloquially styled “Little
Italy.” Only once before has Queensland
had the experience which has befallen Innis-
fail. That was after a Roma jury had
acquitted a man charged with lifting a big
mob of cattle off Bowen Downs. These were
taken on a droving trip right across out-back
Australia to Adelaide, a wonderful feat of
bushcraft. The cattle were sold at Adelaide,
but an imported bull among them was identi-
fied, and was the principal evidence against
the accused at Roma. Adelaide witnesses
corroborated those at the Queensland end,
but a solid jury made it not guilty. It was
the culmination of a series of similar per-
formances by juries in the “cattle-duffing
metropolis,” as Roma was known then, and
for many a year after—the Ivenniff case had
its setting in the same district as late as
1902 —and the authorities lost patience.
Boldrcwood used the story in “Robbery
Under Arms,” altering the ending. Of the
chief actors, the central figure remained in
the district till his death a few years ago.
On the other side was Lumley Hill, then
manager and (I fancv) part-owner of Bowen
Downs, who also died in Queensland a year
or two since.
* * * *
“Dean”: Touching the wife who recog-
nised the husband who had deserted her in
the man hawking pot plants at the door (B.
3/2/’27). An itinerant vendor of pictures
recently rang the bell at my sister’s house,
and when she answered it in person began
the usual litany of his tribe. With a freez-
ing “Nothing to-day,” my sister closed the
door, but not before she had recognised m
the picture-pedlar our own father, who
deserted his family 25 years ago. The recog-
nition, however, was only one-sided.
* * * *
“Nakhoda”: The cabled report that a
Californian scientist has succeeded in ferti-
lising sea-urchins’ eggs by means of a sub-
stance discovered by Dr. T. B. Robertson, of
Adelaide University, recalls that similar
experiments several years ago caused con-
siderable excitement along the Pacific coast.
In fact, one spinster, on reading that biolo-
gists were pouring oocytin into sea water to
fertilise sea-urchins, wrote to a newspaper
inquiring if she incurred any risk in taking
her daily swim.
SKIRTS.
[FOR THE BULLETIN. ]
“ ‘l’m backing short skirts—and may their shadow
never grow longer,’ said the dress-department head
at Blank’s” —Melbourne Sun.
When Gladys goes in sweet undress
Of skirts, a little more or less
Than shows or hides a shapely knee,
’Tis not, O Lord, ’tis not for me
To cavil at the piquant show
Nor curse the teasing winds that blow;
For Gladys, whatsoe’er her whim,
Is most amazing neat of limb,
And treasure hid I do deplore
So may their shadow grow no more!
When Gladys goes in bathing-gown,
Alas, it is my lot to own
That wholly bare and blatant leg
No longer serves me as a peg
Whereon to hang romantic dreams;
A loaf unique is this, it seems,
Whose half is better than the whole,
But so it is, upon my soul!
And shortened skirts I hereby bless —
But may their shadow grow no les*!
VICTORIA,
HASEN.


“Billy S.ee": One incendiary
will attach the kerosene-lamp
to the cat's tail, while another
stands a lighted candle in a
saucerfnl of gunpowder; but
the element of luck must always
be allowed for. A storekeeper
in a YV.A. seaside resort reached
a point when a fire seemed the
only alternative to the Bank-
ruptcy Court, So one Christ-
mas morn, having lit the primus
and placed it in close proximity
to the methylated spirits, he
strolled down to the beach for
an early dip. Presently his
wife, in her night-dress, aroused
the village with shrill screams
of “Fire!” and dense clouds of
smoke began to pour out of the
village grocery. The only un-
foreseen obstacle to the success
of the undertaking was that the
best fire brigade in the State
had arrived in the hamlet only
the night before on a Christmas
picnic. As one man they rushed
to the rescue, and soon had the
fire under control with a chain
of buckets obtained from the
store itself. A week later the
luckless storekeeper filed his
schedule.
“A.G.L.”: Speaking of the
consignment of full coffins under
false descriptions (B. 13/1 /’27).
r»0 years ago 1 knew an ex-
captain of collier-brigs who
married an actress and took
over the lease of a Liverpool
theatre. The lady died very
soon, after expressing a wish to
be buried at Greenock, of which
town both were natives. The
body lay in state at the theatre
while the bereaved husband,
who was Scotch and canny,
went to the railway station,
where he learned to his disgust
that the rate for corpses was Is.
per mile. A fortnight later,
when I met the widower, he ex-
plained that he had just re-
turned from the interment at
Greenock. lie added that he
had not submitted to the rapa-
city of the railway company,
being convinced that Lizzie
would never have rested peace-
fully in the tomb had the co.’s
charge been paid. Nevertheless,
he had regarded her last wish
as sacred, and with the assist-
ance of his stage-carpenter the
casket had been enclosed in a
packing-case and consigned at
concession rates as “theatrical
properties”!
* * *
“Herodot” : Amongst the pas-
senger on a train which recently
met with an accident were two
hard-doers. Just before leaving
the city the pair had dropped
into a pub near the station for
a last drink, and had become
involved in a brawl. During
the disturbance one of them
knocked his knuckles on an iron
stanchion, cutting them open
and slightly injuring his hand :
but as they didn’t want to miss
the train, lie tied his . handker-
chief around the hand and post-
poned further treatment. In
the accident both men escaped
without a scratch, but the one
who had been in the fight took
the opportunity of exhibiting
his damaged hand, and when the
claims for compensatioji were
assessed he received £3OO for injuries and
shock.
* * * *
“Black Tracker”: A honeymoon couple
went to Port Lincoln (S.A.), where the big
oysters thrive, and the sea-birds have a habit,
when they can capture a mollusc, of carry-
ing it aloft and letting it fall on the rocks.
The lioneymooners fixed their umbrella in a
quiet nook, never thinking it would be mis-
taken for a rock. There was a bomb-like
clash which split the umbrella and caused
havoc beneath it. A disappointed bird flew
away without the oyster, which was taken
home as a memento.
*-* * *
"Uramao”: Whether or not the Law is an
ass. it can sometimes be stupidly vindictive.
Fifteen years ago a young Maorilander failed
in his duty to his mother. An order for her
support was made against him and he fell
into arrears to the tune of £5O. When a
warrant was issued for his arrest he had
disappeared, but the other day the police
managed to locate him and lodged him in
gaol. During the interval of 15 years he
had served at the Front, returned, been recon-
ciled with his mother and maintained her till
her death in 1917. A commonsense S.M.
promptly released the Digger.
* * * *
“Wang”: Our suburb boasts a lady bottle-
oh, a short, thick-set party of middle age who
uses a bicycle in place of a horse and cart.
When loaded up, her conveyance presents a
queer sight, with numerous small bundles
done up in hessian fastened all over it. With
a full cargo aboard there is no room for the
lady to ride, so she wheels her awkward
vehicle along. In a southern suburb of the
same , city (Melbourne) is a skirted “wile
rabbi” hawker. I have seen her several
times attending to customers, and she can
peel off bunny’s jacket as quickly and
neatly as any male.
* * * *
“Topee”: Some returned men repatriated
themselves into callings uncontemplated by
the most benevolent Governments. Seven
years ago I met an old naval friend who
had. during the war, risen from “tiffy” to
engineer-commander. He told me that he
was engaged to a publican’s daughter,
and that, when his time expired the following
year, they were going to lump their savings,
his deferred pay, etc., and take a pub. Last
SETTLED.
"Out of 11,050 soldiers settled on the land in Vietoria by optimistic paliticians, only 8350 remain, and
more are leaving weekly. Premier Allan told a deputation last week that many Diggers never should have
become farmers."
week I met him on the ferry and asked if the
original intention had been carried out. He
replied: “We’ve done better than that.
We re running the Monterpeete at C !”
“Wingella”: Speaking of carefully-pre-
served appendices and grim personal orna-
ments. 1 knew a young lady—a very good-
looking girl, too —who always wore a neck-
lace of human teeth. They had belonged to
her uncle, who had furnished the piece dc
resistance of a cannibal feast; his teeth had
been removed from the jaw, and strung on
twisted sinews from his arm. The punitive
expedition had recovered the teeth, still on
their string, and handed them over to the
murdered man’s relatives. The girl was
enormously proud of the grisly trophy,
though it was a very ugly one.
* * * *
“Ivea”: I know an adopted child who was
actually bought by her present possessor.
After a week of hard drinking the girl’s
only surviving parent was running amok,
and my friend, riding past the place, found
the terrified child racing to a neighbor for
protection. He picked her up and rode back
to interview Dad, whom he discovered smash-
ing up what remained of the household goods.
After some unpleasant argument, the visitor
remarked that his wife would look after the
seven-year-old girl until such time as her
home was fit for her to return to. The father
thereupon offered to sell her for a fiver, and
the other promptly passed over the money.
The guardians knew, of course, that such a
sale was illegal, and fully expected the
buyer to demand the child back, but instead
he signed adoption papers and let the girl
go with apparent goodwill, not even taking
any further interest in her when he married
again two years later.
* * * *
“Emel”: A young couple in Warrackna-
beal (Vic.) quarrelled, and the man sent his
sister to ask the girl for the return of his
presents. So indignant was the lady that
she bundled them up at once, and added
the sum of two pounds with a sarcastic
covering-note mentioning that it represented
disbursements for chocolates and seats at
picture-shows to which he had treated her
during the time they had been keeping com-
pany. Strephon has kept the money.
* * « #
“Schnorrer”: In more ways than one is
the Jewish Aid Society (B. 3/2/'27) a
model. Since the foundation in 1890 it has
advanced £33,038 to 1756 needy Jews; the
amount outstanding is £2288. which is only £OB
more than was lent during 1926. Advances
are limited to £4O (most of them are for
that amount) and repayment is required at
the rate of £1 a week, as a rule, with even
more lenient terms when necessity can be
shown. Clearly, the society has run its
interest-free beneficence with uncommonly
little loss.
* * * *
“Emel”: Why should it be considered ill-
bred to appear in shirt-sleeves before ladies?
(B. 27/l/’27). Isn't a man’s shirt quite
as respectable a covering as a woman's
blouse? Some years ago, on a very hot
day, a polite young bank clerk at my board-
ing-house in Nhill (Vic.) hung his coat and
waistcoat over the dining-room door before
he noticed that I was still at the table. He
apologised profusely, and it took a deal of
persuasion "to induce him to leave the gar-
ments on the door and eat his dinner in
coolness. In contrast I recall a young work-
man in the country who would pay me an
evening call still comfortably clad in his
work-a-day short-sleeved flannel and trousers.
The prejudice against eoatlessnoss is a class
prejudice, and nothing else.
“C.Q.”: The “Bellerive” of the wine trade
keeps a wine and spirit store in Flinders-
street, Melbourne. Each bottle of his wares
has a neat ticket attached, on which a verse of
the true vintage is inscribed. A specimen:
This wine is good and mellow with age,
Equal to any imported,
Drank by Messrs. Peacock and Page,
Reduced rates for a dozen assorted !
Another:
You’ll like this gin, I’m sure you will,
It's made at Preston’s local distil.
The very best in the Commonwealth—
Stick to this gin if you study your health.
The poet’s manipulation of figures amounts
to genius:
Cascade Ale and Cascade Stout
Are perfect lines without a doubt.
Price 1/6 and 1/7.
We deliver anywhere but Heaven.
More:
Week after week and year after year
1 always take my Bass's Beer.
What’s the price, let me see:
Can I believe my eyes? Only 2/3.
The dramatic touch in that last line would
make even “Ripponlea” tear his hair with
envy.
* * * «
“Oxmead”: An Irish Judge recently laid
it dow". that neither a barrister nor a doctor
is entitled to charge a well-to-do
client or patient more than a
poor one. Still, that invaluable
book of reference, “Whitaker,”
expressly states that medical
fees in Britain depend on the
supposed income of the patients,
“the income being indicated by
the rental of the houses in which
they reside,” and a scale of such
rentals and the corresponding
fees is actually appended. Some
such discrimination is undoubt-
edly practised by doctors every-
where, but in Australia it
doesn’t depend on rentals. I re-
call a contested action for
thumping medical fees on the
W.A. goldfields many years ago,
where the Galen contended that
lie had justification for opening
his mouth a lot wider than usual
because his patient owned a
diamond-drill. The. Court didn't
award him all he claimed, but
at the same time it didn’t cut
his bill to the bone. Yet if the
Irish Judge was right, the
ownership of a sheep-station
should have no more influence
on the bill than the ownership
of a shovel.
* * *
“Leamington”: Someone de-
scried a package floating off tin 1
beach at Coogee (N.S.W.), and
the rumor ran like wildfire
among the huge holiday throng
that it was a parcel of opium
thrown overboard from a passing
steamer. The presence of a
policeman on the foreshore lent
color to the story, and it was
obviously with his connivance
that half a dozen stalwarts of
the local surf club set out to
recover the mysterious flotsam.
When the successful salvagers re-
turned to the shore with the par-
cel, the Law had great difficulty
in keeping back the wildly surg-
ing mob as he sought to open the
bundle which was neatly sewn
into a hessian covering. This
was laboriously removed, to re-
veal a wooden box. When the
lid of this had been prised away
it was a very sheepish-looking
multitude that hurriedly distri-
buted itself along the sands
again. It left a perspiring police-
man glaring down at two bricks
and two very dead cats.
* * #
“Bouragi”: The Smithsonian
Institute expedition which lately
crossed Dutch New Guinea from
north to south, under Dutch
escort, is on its way back to
America via Europe. The leader,
interviewed at Cairo by a Times
representative, supplied an agree-
able novelty in the usual burden
of New Guinea exploratory sagas;
in addition to the inevitable
pygmies, a race of “giants,” aver-
aging over 6ft. in height, was en-
countered. As these were treach-
erous, the escort had to shoot
some. This should have given
the expedition a chance to bring
home some stuffed specimens, of
which one hopes it availed itself.
Otherwise carpers may point out
that the description of the
“giants” differs very little from
that which would apply to many
of the West of Papua tribes —the
Kiwais, for instance—even down
to the skewers through their
noses which were described as
adding to their ogre-like ferocity.
Merry Min.”: I know of a precious stone
that was recovered more unexpectedly than
lucre’s” sapphire (R. 6/l/’27). A friend
or mine over from W.A. sported a gold ring
with a ruby. One day after a jaunt round
our Pinaroo (S.A.) farm he noticed that the
stone was missing. A search through and
around the house proved useless. A few
days later mother decided to kill a rooster:
and the ruby was the first thing that came
to light in the gizzard.
A RING OF BELLES.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Until I met Chloe, I did not suppose
Anyone in the world could be fairer than Rose;
Her smile with the dimples was joy to behold,
Her speech was as silver, her song was like gold.
But wayward young Chloe, I’m sadly afraid,
Has put pretty Rose very much in the shade.
I once used to rave of Nesera’s dark hair
Till I met Amaryllis, and now I declare
That blondes are the better. Neiera’s all right, !
But her locks are too sombre, the color of night,
\\ hile her figure’s uncomely and barren of grace,
And there’s something decidedly sour in her face.
Priscilla’s demureness attracted me once;
But now I can see she’s a terrible dunce,
I hat she doesn’t take in half the words that she hears
And her silence arises from lack of ideas.
I I or since I’ve known Pyrrha, I’m bound to admit
These ladies from Greece are the devil for wit 1
Now pray don’t imagine I’m flighty or vain;
I assure you it gives me a great- deal of pain
That I can’t love the worst while I’m loving the best,
Or worship this one and adore all the rest;
For in this thihg at least I’m to principle true—
I am off with the old when I’m on with the new 1
N.S.W.
TOM BOWLING.
TO AN INCONSISTENT LOVER.
[FOR THE BULLETIN. ]
not give you up,” you said,
Tiiough all the world should stand between.
The \\ orld what is the world to me
W hen everything, and more, you mean ?”
Yo\i said I was your “will to live,”
I was your “only hope of Heaven,”
And rowed it all in varying phrase
Seven hundred times and seventy-seven.
n °t gi'e you up,” you said;
“The needed words 1 could not say!”
Hut that was all a month ago—
I wonder whose you are to-day?
TASMANIA.
VERA HOLTHAM.


f
X
f&S&sttds
2OT3ZZJ
Many men smoked their first
Kensitas to please me. But
their second and third and .
hundredth they smoke to tL/yf
please themselves. jj
Kensitas
r
ift
®nsft
s l*f
,T. WIX & SONS, LTD., LONDON.
KA5a.
20 for 1/6
50 for 3/9
“Oxmead”: It may be easy for persons up
against the law to get bail in Victoria (B.
3/2/’27), but I doubt if the Melbourne police
are more considerate towards bondsmen
whose bailees have mizzled than the force
used to be on the W.A. goldfields. It was
only necessary to convince the police that
the man awaiting trial had slipped up his
bailsman as well as everyone else, and wires
would be pulled to relieve the over-trustful
person of the liability he had made himself
HARDLY WHAT SHE MEANT.
“My hair needs cutting awfully, doesn’t it?”
“Oh, I don’t think so, pet — it’s cut that way now.”
good for —on paper. Nor did one need to
be a very solid citizen to be acceptable as a
surety. I remember a case where a bank
clerk was committed for trial for some
irregularities. No laymen were left in court
at the conclusion of the case except a brace
of pressmen. The accused asked them to act
as his bailsmen, and the pair good-naturedly
consented. A week or two later the bird
was found to have flown. It didn’t look as
if the Crown had much chance of recovering
£5OO from the Inky Way men, but one of the
pair began to worry considerably over his
obligation. It was a kindly sergeant who
took him aside and adjured him not to
bother. “I know you had nothing to do with
his get-away,” he said, “and I’ll guarantee
to make it right with the Crown Law
Department.” And I’ve no doubt he would
have done so if the bird hadn't been recap-
tured before there was any talk about bail
being estreated.
“Wang”: I have known some quaint
methods adopted by jilted swains to get even
with the girls who
turned them down.
One lady, for
months after her
marriage, received
letters from the re-
jected one threat-
ening to commit
suicide, and asking
her to send a bunch
of violets for his
coffin. She was be-
ginning to feel
sorry for the man
who had found life
a dreary blank,
when she met him
pushing a pram
containing a couple
of youngsters, and
with a severe-look-
ing dame in the
offing. Anothe r
gentleman, who
was tossed aside
in favor of a lead-
ing local prohibi-
tionist, seeks solace
in a different way.
He is a marine-
store collector, and
about twice a week
he stops his cart
in front of the
fickle one’s domicile
and goes round to
the back of the
house, bag in hand.
Presently emerg-
ing, lie fishes num-
erous empty beer-
bottles out of the
bag, and ostenta-
tiously places them
in a row alongside
his cart. The neighbors do not know that he
carries them in with them.
* * * *
“Gouger” : In the early Gallipoli days the
Navy captured a Greek barque loaded with
eatables and softgoods. The worth-while
things not being sufficient to go round among
the Diggers on Anzac Cove, lots were drawn,
and there was much grumbling when a
hungry man would find himself the possessor
of a pot of vaseline instead of the eggs or
cake he had been hoping for. A character
in the 9th Battalion, familiarly known as
“Cock,” was approached by Lieutenant
Arnold with “What did you draw, ‘Cock ?”
“I’ll bet me tot o’ rum against your water-
bottle that I beat yous,” was the reply.
“Right,” said Arnold, and he held out a tin of
tooth-powder. “ ’And over ya water-bottle,”
“Cock” rejoined. “See me’ead?” he demanded,
slinging off his old slouch hat. “Is there a
skerrick of ’air on it?” “No,” Arnold admit-
ted. “Well, ’ere’s wot I drawed!” And
“Cock” triumphantly held out —a fine-tooth
comb!
* * * *
“Herodot” : The Federal Government gives
a reward of £lOO for information that will
lead to the locating of an illicit still and the
conviction of the
operator. Also, it
consults the feel-
ings of the informer
by paying the
money in any way
asked. I know of
one instance where
a request was made
that the money in
£5 notes should be
placed in a cigar-
box and forwarded
by rail to a station
w'here it would be
Called for; in an-
other, the informer
asked that it be
sent to him inside
a newspaper. In
a third case it was
stipulated the re-
ward should be
wrapped in a par-
cel and placed in
a hollow log near a specified house. Each
of these suggestions was acceded to.
* * * *
“Black Tracker”: While carpenters were
replacing the bar floor in a country hotel in
South Aus. they found, along with a collec-
tion of coins of various values, a small gold
pin with a round bead as its head. Although
only worth a few shillings it was responsible
for' a family feud that cost the parties con-
cerned thousands of pounds. Some 30 years
ago two sons of adjoining farmers quarrelled
and fought in the bar. During the scrim-
mage the pin dropped arid fell through a
crack in the floor. The loser later accused
his opponent of stealing it and had him
arrested. A suit for damages followed, and
a bitter feud arose which has not died down
to this day.
* * * *
“Borom” : It is not hard to relight a candle
after it has been blown out (B. 27/l/’27) ;
the large and old-fashioned tallow variety
lent itself readily to the process. The pro-
ducts of the combustion of a candle are
AN END-OF-THE-MONTH VALUATION.
WIFEY: “What does my hew frock look like, darling?”
HUBBY: “Like about three weeks’ salary, dearest.”
chiefly carbon and hydrogen. The first goes
off in the form of the thick, black smoke,
while the second is an invisible and inflam-
mable gas, some of which remains around the
wick. Vigorous blowing will cause the small
spark which remains in the wick to glow;
this ignites the hydrogen and that in turn
rekindles the flame. The application of the
same principle in another form can be seen
when a lighted match is held about half an
inch away from the wick of an extinguished
candle, and in the curl of smoke from it.
The inflammable hydrogen ignites, and run-
ning back through the smoke-curl rekindles
the candle.
“Emel” : The conversation in our carriage
turned upon women’s use of paint and pow-
der. The A.W.U. organiser admitted that
lie had little to do with girls, but he liked
to see them make up, as it improved a girl’s
appearance. The young Englishman in
the corner disagreed altogether; make
up was, and looked, artificial, was seldom
artistically done, and eventually ruined a
girl’s looks. It was his mate, a small, dark
Aussie in the other corner, who finished
the argument. “I don’t care so much about
looks,” he said, “but girls oughtn’t to use
paint and powder. It’s the hardest thing
in the world to clean off a man’s coat,
especially here,” and he touched his left
shoulder.
“Billy See” : A bride, while on her honey-
moon trip from Ivalgoorlie to Perth, was
taken with a fit of coughing, and put her
head out of the carriage window. When she
withdrew it her brand-new false teeth were
somewhere on the permanent-way. The
mishap spoilt her appearance, and the teeth
were valuable, too. However, the station-
master some 25 miles further on promised
to pass the word to the length runners and
fettlcrs that there was a dual chance of
assisting beauty in distress and winning the
£5 reward which the bridegroom gallantly
offered. The teeth were picked up about a
week later, but not by a railway worker.
It was an old alluvial digger tramping the
length whose eye was caught by the glint
of gold amongst the ballast. The metal was
only a tiny bit of filling, but that was suffi-
cient to bring the old dryblower up short.
* * * *
“Retired Lunatic” : It is bad enough to be
supplanted in this world, but to have a per-
fect stranger occupying your berth in the
next is rather too much. The other day a
Melbourne man read of his own funeral,
attended and paid for by his wife. Hurrying
home —he had gone to another district look-
ing for a job—he learnt that his wife had
identified a man found floating in the Yarra
as the body of her lawful mate, the liken-ss
extending even to a crooked finger-joint. The
Coroner has a photograph and the clothes of
the dead man, and refuses to have him dis-
interred at the State’s expense. So he must
either stay where he is or be dug up by the
lady who had him buried. And he is occupy-
ing her husband’s plot in the family burial-
ground.
“C.Q.”: One explanation of the outbreak
of fires in Melbourne, mentioned by “X.D,”
(B. 27/l/’27), that it was caused by scav-
engers dropping their cigarette-ends in the
dustbins which they rake over for what they
can find, leaves me unimpressed. A col-
league of mine regularly drops his lighted
fag-ends into the office waste-basket, a thing
that makes me shiver. When I remonstrate
he says he has been doing it all his working
life. He is over 55.
“X2X”: Strange that none of the “fire-
bugs” whose activities keep insurance com-
pany officials awake o’ nights have borrowed
the idea which the I.W.W. lunatics utilised
during their crazy campaign of arson. Their
stuff was made for them by an uncommonly
clever chemist, now dead, and was a mix-
ture of three different chemicals. One of
them was so volatile that it evaporated at
ordinary temperatures. Another was capable
of combustion by contact with the air, and
the third was extremely inflammable. Pieces
of cotton-wool were saturated with this mix-
ture, and then thrown down in the buildings
which had been marked for destruction.
When the volatile substance evaporated, it
caused the second one to ignite, and this
then set fire to the inflammable compound.
The chief point about the stuff was that it
could be timed to go off practically when
required. The exact quantitative composi-
tion is a secret locked in the Federal Gov-
ernment’s laboratory, where the stuff was
analysed.
* * * *
“Topee”: I’m off this Humane Society
business since what happened last holidays,
the skipper of the 25-miler told me. “We’d
just hung up after our Sydney trip and I was
changing to go ashore when I saw one of our
passengers, who was lagging behind, chuck
off his coat and dive clean over the rail. I
didn’t want to be mixed up in any inquests,
and, as I’d only my singlet on, I sung out to
Sam the engineer and jumped after the fool.
There’s only 20ft. there, but I had to go to
the bottom to get him, and it took me all
my time to drag him up to where Sam and
liis fireman could pull us aboard. Sam is
a local preacher, and after he’d first-aided
the bloke and pumped some of the water out
of him. he told him how thankful he should
THE FAITHFUL STEWARD.
FIRST CAT: “Oh, Marge, I saw Hilda to-
day!”
SECOND CAT: Really! Has she kept her
girlish figure?"
FIRST CAT: “My dear, she’s doubled it!”
be to the Lord for preserving him from the
awful sin of self destruction. ‘Thankful, be
hanged !’ the chap I’d rescued says. ‘I was
looking up the river for the launch when I
yawned, and the teeth I had just paid 12
quid for in Sydney dropped out. I knew
my only hope of saving them was to get over
before they could reach the silt, when down
comes this blundering skipper of yours stir-
ring up the mud. And I don’t suppose I’ll
ever see them again now.’ He hasn’t, eith'er,”
finished the skipper gloomily, “and he says
I ought to shout him a new set.”
BLACK SUNDAY: FEB. 14, 1926.
[FOR THE BULLETIN. ]
Boreas the mad king has loosed his red horses—
Toll the bells and beat the bells, ye proud cities,
pray!
Straw to bind a wind of hate are all your pale forces,
Boreas the mad king a-hunting goes to-day.
Boreas the mad king has loosed a thousand stallions,
Maned like Nubian lions, as tigers terrible;
Through the moaning gully-beds gleam their bright
battalions,
And their flaming forelocks beacon hill to hill.
Shod with brass their flying feet, stick nor stone may
lame them ;
Vain the puny arm of flesh their savage might to
chain ;
Who shall halter heads of these to conquer or to
tame them ?
Who shall bit their molten mouths and bend them
to the rein f
Up the blind and broken spur, through the wooded
valley,
Leap the phalanxes of Doom on a field forlorn,
Break, divide and launch again in a wilder rally. . . .
Boreas the mad king has wound his demon horn !
Sawmill in the wooded deep, cottage in the clearing,
Man and beast and flying bird and all that live
by breath
Wither to the burning wind of those red ranks
careering,
Shudder to the brazen hoofs that beat them down
to death.
Toll the bells and beat the bells and pray for these
most stricken
Man and beast and flying bird in that red terror
tossed;
Shield them with thy brooding wings where death-
damps reel and thicken,
Strong mother Pain, thrice pitiful Dark Angel of
the Lost! .
I"’or Boreas the mad king shall hold his red horses,
And every hill shall lift its head and every vale
be gay,
And all the mountain runnels make sweet music in
their courses
Where Boreas the mad king a-huntirg gets U-dny.
VICTORIA.
MARIE E. J. PITT.


Usher's Hotel Ltd
Castlereaghi Street, Sydney.
A first-class new and up-to-date
modern hotel.
Running hot and cold water in all bid-
rooms and many have Bath de Luxe.
Automatic bedside telephones.
English and Trench Cuisine.
New Marble Bar, spacious and airy.
For perfection of service, comfort
and cleanliness, Usher’s Ltd. is un-
equalled.
Inclusive Terms, apply
MANAGER.
Nation-Wide Popularity through
Fair Dealing.
The phenomenally rapid growth and nation-wide popularity of the
Producers and Citizens’ may be said to rest on the fact that it. lives up
to the spirit as well as the letter of the ideal of Co-operation. For
example, its Policy-holders are protected against forfeiture of their
policies during seasonal emergencies; each year definite sums are
earmarked for loan purposes; while the Company’s intimate know-
ledge of the peculiar needs of the men on the land takes form in
sympathetic, understanding treatment.
The PRODUCERS & CITIZENS’
Co-operative Assurance Co. of Australia, Ltd.,
Gov. Dir.:
A. K. Trethowan.
114-120 Castlereagh Street, Sydney.
Gen. Man. :
H. Fell.
his sxcellsncVS
Y£stabUs(ied 1383
COMMONWIAIIHoTAUSTRAUA
W. Chorlcy
8 Co. Ltd.,
313 George St., Sydney
Tailors
and Breechssmakers
EXCLUSIVE LADIES’
. TAILOR-MADES.
PERSONAL
ITEMS
GLOBE
MEAT EXTRACT
GLOBE BRAND
Thomas Longworth, who died in Sydney
at the week-end, was a chief actor in one of
the romances of Australian industry. He
and his brother had a little coalmine near
Singleton (N.S.W.), and Albert Gould, then
a local solicitor, had another. There was
not enough trade for them, so they combined
in order to cut down expenses. Then, as
theirs was good coking coal, they tried to sell
some coke; but. as usual, the stinking fisher-
men w T ere quite sure that Australian coal
was no good for coke, and Longworth and
his partners couldn't sell any. “Well,”
Thomas Longworth said, “we shall have to
find a copper-mine and smelt our own ore.”
They had a look at Cobar, then just about
abandoned, and took hold of it on most
advantageous terms; and presently, helped
by George Blakemore as technical manager,
the partners (by this time there were six in
the syndicate) netted over a million.
The brilliant Nathan is to be succeeded at
Brisbane Government House by Sir Thomas
Goodwin- —Thomas Herbert John Chapman
Goodwin really. The Gov.-to-be had an
Australian mother, Marian Agnes Power that
was; she was a native of Melbourne, where
his father stayed a while after one of the
Maori wars, in which he took part as an
“I believe you ejected your mother-in-law?”
“ Oh , no, I didn’t eject her —I merely put
her out.”
army surgeon. Thomas Goodwin was born
in Ceylon, and is rising 56. He made his
name in the Great War. and was Director-
General of the Army Medical Service from
1918 to 1923, when he retired with a cart-
load of decorations.
•T. S. White. ex-M.L.A. for Albert Park
(Vic.), who died at 88. leaving an estate
worth close on £90,000, inserted a clause in
his will that any beneficiary disputing it should
be disinherited. But the will has been dis-
puted by a grand-daugliter who was left
only £lOO. Nobody suspected that White
was so wealthy. When he was in the Assem-
bly (1892 to .1902) he hugged the bawbees
and prized the couple of, hundred a year
extra that his Railway Committee seat
brought him.
Though born to be a scientist—-his father
was Professor of Physics in the Royal School
of Mines, London —the late F. B. Guthrie’s
tastes were artistic; and though lie served
N. S. Wales well for almost a lifetime as
Agricultural Chemist, he was happiest in the
company of artists—“ Hop” was a very old
friend —-with occasional excursions into
literature. He wrote for The Bulletin
a few pieces of excellent verse; and when,
five or six years ago, he retired from the
N.S.W. Agricultural Department, he had
notions about doing a lot of writing. For a
while he conducted an agricultural section
for a Brisbane paper; but his heart was not
in the job, and he retired to take his ease,
saddened by the death of his two sons through
war wounds. He was 66 when he died
this week.
General Higgin-
son, dead at the
age of 101 in Eng-
land, was an ex-
ample of what good
looks and pleasant
manners can do for
a man of middle-
class family and
small fortune. Born
in the north of Ire-
land, he entered
the Grenadier
Guards, and fought
i n th e Crimean
campaign. He was
badly wounded at
the Alma, and in-
valided home, but
lie later returned
to the line. Be-
coming a protege
of the house of
Abercorn, he went
from one pleasant
job to another; he
was A.D.C. and.
later. Silver Stick
i n Waiting t o
Queen Victoria,
who had him made
a K.C.B. One of
the old man’s last
billets was the
Lieut.-Governorship
of the Tower, a
pleasant sinecure
which lie held for
four years.
ARTHUR
BLAKELEY .
Labor M.H.R. for
Darling.
The International Federated Burns Club
has commanded Jimmie Craigie, of Timaru
(M.L.)j to repair to Edinburgh and there
unveil a memorial in old St. Giles’s to Fer-
guson, a forerunner of Burns. Craigie was
the man who put Timaru on the map. They,
made him mayor in the early days of this
century; then he went into politics and
represented his beloved seaport in Parlia-
ment as a Liberal, while Ilall-Jones took
a spell in the High Commissioner’s office.
For about 10 years Craigie to all intents and
purposes was Timaru. Then a chill wind
blew upon the party that Ballance founded,
and Craigie became an Independent. So,
in due course, he climbed to the Plush Cham-
ber, where he has remained ever since.
The new R.C. Vicar-General of the Apple
Isle is Monsignor James Murphy. He was
the first priest to be ordained in Tasmania,
having volunteered for service there in 1882
when Archbishop Murphy called for recruits
in Ireland. James was 22 at the time, being
a teacher in a Cork seminary, but with six
years of ecclesiastical study in the Vincen-
tian College of Mayuooth behind him. He
was ordained in 1883. and had just completed
37 years in charge of New Norfolk when the
new distinction found him.
When Harrie Tear left Sydney Daily
Telegraph. 20 years ago. to look after the
advertising for the great Hordern business he
took with him an ambition to put advertising
in Australia on a line with that of America
rather than to imitate American methods.
He was a leader in movements, such as the
Ad.-men’s Institute, to place advertising and
the men it concerns on a higher plane; but
the best he did in that direction was in his
own work. Tear invariably had his “copy”
in on time, and it was interesting “copy”
always. One of his hobbies was assisting
hospitals in drives for funds: he did a lot of
work of that sort for the Prince Alfred. The
good fellow died suddenly on Monday morn-
ing, after working in his garden at Strath-
field.
An infamous story that used to be whis-
pered in anti-Liberal clubs in the days when
the duel between Gladstone and Salisbury
was the political fare of England was revived
last year by Peter Wright, who once held a
commission in George V.’s army, and has
since turned author. Wright insinuated that
the G.O.M. used to beguile his leisure hours
by pursuing street-walkers with the worst
intentions, and added allegations regarding
Gladstone’s relations with Olga Novikoff
(described in some Australian journals as
“the famous Russian dancer”) and other
ladies of his time. Gladstone’s son having
passed appropriate comments, Wright had
the effrontery to sue him for libel, and was
routed last week, with costs. “The Man
with a Duster,” writing in 1921, dealt with
the old scandal, but not in the Wright vein.
He said that, beginning in his Oxford days,
Gladstone was nobly devoted to the rescue
of fallen women, and that Mrs. Gladstone
was his partner in the work throughout their
married life.
A rather joyless existence during the last
few years was that of William Brown,
“Baron” Brown’s brother, who died in Syd-
ney last week. The big coal interests that
made them both rich came down from old
James Brown, who accumulated them in
partnership with Ms brother, Alexander. Wil-
liam Brown had been threatened with heart
failure for 10 year's, and when, four years
ago, he went away on a trip to America
and Europe, it was a jaunt in which there
were more doctors than enjoyments. He was
04 when Death refused to be staved off any
longer.
Austin Graham Brown, who has captured
the job of Federal Inspector-General of
Bankruptcy, has had a stiff but steady climb.
He began it in Melbourne Public Library and
studied for his B.A. and LL.B. degrees while
there. Learning shorthand, he became depu-
tation clerk at the Lands Department, Mel-
bourne, 33 years ago, and then helped Bob
Best, who was Minister, to liberalise the land
legislation. Missing no opportunity, he next
went to the State Law Department and
helped the late Teddy Garble to draft bills.
Passing over to the Federal side, he acted
as secretary to the leader for the Govern-
ment in the Senate, and latterly has been on
the staff or the Federal Law Department.
He has a farm at Noojee, and is a graceful
writer on rural life.
Mick Connelly, who takes charge of the
Vocational Advice branch of the N.S.W.
Education Department, designed to assist
boys in deciding upon their careers, looked
after the N.S.W. end of Repat.’s vocational
training scheme, and then succeeded Jimmy
Nangle as Superintendent of Technical Edu-
cation when Nangle became director. Con-
nelly turned the old Darlinghurst gaol into
a place suitable for schooling. The branch
that Connelly is to administer is Nangle’s
idea.
Herbert Moore, a Melbourite artist who
worked with Sid Long, has found a livelihood
along interesting lines. He has dug out
of City Council ratebooks and suchlike un-
promising archives the honorable or murky
pasts of numerous old buildings hitherto not
suspected of owning a history, and his deli-
cate line-drawings of them find a ready sale.
Among other things he found that the house
of Henry Condell, Melbourne's first Mayor,
still stands, and his picture show's the
wounds ploughed in the gate by Cobb and
Co.’s coaches which subsequently passed
through it. Delicensed pubs also prove popu-
lar subjects. Pictures of them have a senti-
mental appeal to those who can remember
being flung out of them in the good old
days.
Bob Hunter, just dead at Quilpie (W.Q.),
was one of the pioneers. His wife was a
worthy mate. Though over 70 years of age,
it is less than 12 months since she took a
horse and dray and a month’s rations and
camped on the far end of the run w r hile she
built a yard. She cut and dragged posts, dug
holes and fastened rails with all the skill of
an expert yard-builder. A motor-car from
Quilpie conveyed Bob to the hospital, but
before they could reach town he had passed
away. The carman, a bush character, when
asked about it said, “Old Bob w'ent off
camp about six miles back and we couldn’t
yard him in again.”
The Witten ooms of Westralia, although
seldom listed among the “Six Families”
which are supposed to have dwarfed all
other clans in the State’s history—paren-
thetically, no tw'o people agree about the
names of the half-dozen—are as old as the
Swan River Settlement itself. The first of
them who is mentioned in Professor Shann’s
recent book. “Cattle Chosen,” arrived as
Colonial Chaplain with one of the early
consignments of pilgrim fathers. His flock
was scanty, but in his w r ay he was a sort
of forerunner of the present Archbishop of
Perth. The pioneer parson’s son Charles
died comparatively young, but he left two
others. Edward and Frank, to carry on the
line. Both took to squatting early in life
and helped to open up the Murchison in
the ’seventies. After that Edward took to
politics and became a colleague of Bigjohn
Forrest, later Agent-General (he was almost
the last man who went to Windsor to
receive knighthood at the 80-year-old Queen
Victoria’s hands), and. finally. President of
the Leg. Council. He resigned last year at
the age of 72, having taken a second wife
a little previously.
Henry Dunstan Vavasour, dead at Marl-
borough (M.L.), aged 77, traced his pedi-
gree back to the Stourtons. Saxon noblemen
of pre-Conquest days. The present head of
the house is Lord Mowbray, Segrave and
JUSTICE LOWE, who stepped from the
Victorian Bar to the Supreme Court
Bench last week.
Stourton —the last-mentioned title is the old-
est barony by letters patent now extant.
Henry Vavasour married a niece of Arch-
bishop Redwood and gave two of his 12
children to religion-—a daughter to the Sacred
Heart Convent, Sydney, and a son to the
Jesuit Order at Rochampton, England. His
family in Marlborough was associated with
other prominent R.C.’s, such as the Cliffords
and the Welds; one of the Welds, Frederick,
was Premier of M.L. in the long ago and
afterwards Governor of Westralia.
A.J.C. secretary Cropper, just off for a
holiday with a £lOOO cheque in his pocket,
used to be a surveyor’s assistant on the
Namoi (N.S.W.). Thence he gravitated to
the Lands Office, Sydney, becoming in his
spare time tennis champion of N. S. Wales,
and a protege of Lord Carrington. After
some years in the “Lands,” Cropper forsook
the mapping-pen and went to Westralia. He
was attorney for various mining companies at
Kalgoorlie before accepting the secretaryship
of the racing club in its palmy days. Cropper
is a member of the Chisholm clan of Goul-
burn, one of whom —James, now deceased —
used to relate that in boyhood he caught
eels in the Tank Stream, at the head of
which Sydney G.P.O. is built.
Speaker Bowser (Vic.) was banqueted by
his Wangaratta constituents the other night,
ostensibly to congratulate him on his sir-
ship, but really to help him along at next
election. McPherson, who had Bowser to
thank for his first lift into Ministerial office
in 1917, and Premier Allan, who helped Labor
to make Bowser Speaker as against Lawson,
were among the contingent of politicians who
helped to clear the tables of their contents.
Labor held aloof, if it was invited; but that
didn’t prevent Bowser saying it was tin;
ablest Opposition he had seen in .22 years'
service.
Some verses wandered into The Bulletin
office the other day from “Old Anzac." other-
wise James Bennett, whose main object was
to give greeting to his old cobbers of the
15th Battalion and the 4th Brigade. Bennetr,
who made some fame by his alligator adven-
tures not long back, is now high up in Aus-
tralia on the Endeavour River, near Cook-
town. He has been a great adventurer. His
fighting days go right back to the Zulu
rebellion ; he did some scrapping in India,
went through the South African War and
saw service on Gallipoli and in France. The
West Indies had a glare of Bennett between
whiles, and so did South America. He
travelled on Shanks’s pony from the Isthmus
right down to Patagonia. He’s spending his
declining years in northern Australia, suc-
cessfully testing the theory that white people
can’t live there.
THE ROBELESS ONES.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“la a minute to the finance committee the Sydney
Town Clerk explained that neither the Lord Mayor
nor the Town Clerk had robes of office to meet the
Duke and Duchess of York. He asked for instructions
whether such robes should be purchased at an esti-
mated total cost of AllO. The committee by five
votes to two declined to approve of the expenditure.”
O Sydney is the richest spot
From Australasian shore to shove.
A hundred million—is it not? —-
Our cits are rated on —or more?
Poor injured pair, ’twill nark you sore,
This parsimonious rebuke.
They grudge you proper clobber for
Affiliating with a Duke.
What’s five and fifty smackers—what ?
To garb a fellow aft and fore
Who for one crowded day has got
To ape the diplomatic corps?
Knee-breeches must his limbs explore,
His head be framed in a peruke
Who’d make his courtliest bow before
A right-down, reg’lar royal Duke.
Ah! won’t they think that we’ve a lot
To learn about sartorial lore
If Mostyn wears a chimney-pot
And flogger somewhat frayed and hoar?
If diamond buckles for the floor
Disgruntled Layton fails to fluke
When royalties are at the door,
Will he not wince in pain, the Duke?
Envoy.
Prince, of your grace let me implore,
Scan not their coverings while they spruik,
Far gladder rags the twain had wore
Did grasping Bumbles not ignore
Their obligations to a Duke.
N.s.w.
T. THE R.


When humid days
play havoc with
your energy . . . .
You know “ that tired feeling.” It’s a sweltering day—not a
breath of wind —close, muggy, stifling. Your energy is at its
lowest ebb. You’re utterly fagged out. You feel the need of
a stimulant. Wisdom prompts you to partake of Wolfe's
Schnapps with iced Spa water and a slice of lemon .
A delightful, cooling draught! But that is not all. In the
extract ot Italian Juniper with which Wolfe’s Schnapps is
compounded lie potent medicinal virtues. Wolfe’s has a direct
action on the kidneys. It helps them to function normally in
a system that is flagging and so brings about an improved
condition of mind and body.
Yes, Wolfe’s is a hot day reviver of the highest order.
Obtainable in quarter , half
and large sized bottles .
\ s
-VI
d
I
2!
/v
I
/«Cs
Pj
$
fta
k/
©
WOLFES
AROMA.TIC SCHIEDAM
SCHNAPPS
“A Blessing to Humanity ”


TRUE TO TIME
The name C Y M A is the
synonym of good timekeeping
*
"Right with
the Sun/'
SOLD BY
ALL JEWELLERS
[£22H
X
Y '■
Say WHEN Man!!
Z:
vjr
4S^>cf
The TOP-NOTCH "Scotch
SYDNEY.
The Finest Restaurant and Dance
Rendezvous in Australasia.
PATRONAGE CONTINUALLY INCREASING.
Capacity: Dining and Supper Dances up to 1100.
For Wedding Receptions, Banquets, Dining and
Supper Dances, inquiries to Manager.
Mon., Tues., Wed., Fri., Dining de Luxe, 7.80,
10/6; Suppers, 10.30, 6/6. Value and satis-
faction without equal. No charge for three
hours’ dancing on satin-smooth spring-floors—
a new thrill of real delight.
Thurs. and Sat. Late Gala Nights. Continental
Dinner from 7.30, 21/-. Suppers, 10.30. J2/6.
This evening in London costs £2/2/- upwards.
PEERLESS ORCHESTRA OF TEN.
Bewitching Cabaret, afternoons and evenings.
Delightful Afternoon Teas, 3.30 to 6.30, 5/-
Two hours’ entertainment of Sheer Delight.
Order Wines before 6 p.m. Ring M. 5666.
ABORIGINALITIES
MADE IN AUSTRALIA
BARNES-LINSEED OIL
“Scrub Wallaby”: I’ve not known snakes
that bark, but can vouch for the whistling-
variety (B. 30/12/’26). In the lake high-
lands of the Speck where I was reared,
Old Bill, our ancient stockman and one-
time hunter, used to tell us tales of a large
and ferocious breed of snakes inhabiting the
back scrubs that, never having tried con-
clusions with the human species, didn’t
realise the wisdom of side-stepping an
encounter, but just “whistle like a bird
and come straight at yer.” One day a
party of us were riding through the rough
bush tracks from the Dee to Lake Echo.
I heard a shrill whistling sound and my
horse began to plunge in a startled manner.
I was scanning the trees for the bird, when
an excited barking drew my attention to a
huge snake rearing a third of its length off
the ground, following the circling movements
of our old cattle-dog, and unmistakably
responsible for the bird-like noise. A handy
piece of sapling put an end to him.
* * * *
“ J.G.” : I don’t know how far tree-roots
will go into the ground (B. 20/l/’27), but
I do know that well-sinkers and others who
have had occasion to sink holes in the
Bacchus Marsh district (Vic.) have followed
lucerne roots to a depth of 60ft., and they
were below that.
“Momokeni”; I do not doubt that tree-
roots go down even farther than those men-
tioned by “Billy See” (B. 20/l/’27). Whilst
in the Northern Sahara we tried to dig out
a specimen of pincushion plant ( Echino
cactus) with root intact for museum pur-
poses. The chosen plant was only a small
one measuring about 18in. in diameter. The
sand, falling in, prevented us from getting
down more than 14ft., at which point the
root was very little smaller in girth than
at the surface. Sectional measurements were
taken both at the ground level and at the
deepest point, and from these it was estimated
that the root would go 200 feet.
* * * *
“Two Seas”: I haven’t tried “James’s”
cure for curly leaf in peach-trees by burying
washing-soda at the roots. But an old-
time orchardist named Bings once assured
me that he cleared his apple-trees of codlin-
moth by burying a quart of asafoetida at
their roots. Bings’s theory was that the
grub was discouraged in his boring opera-
tions by the unusual scent of the apples.
“Bill R.”: The horse has a surprisingly
retentive memory. Paleface was the con-
firmed nark of our station mob. Never
could he be bridled until jambed in the
crush or a narrow
corner of the stock-
yard, and the stock-
men’s vain efforts
to quieten him
occasioned nin e-
tenths of the dis-
trict’s profanity.
When, however,
the baldy displayed
his fractious pro-
clivities to Jack
Lloyd, he received
a hunk of granite
at the butt of the
ear from the break-
er’s unerring hand,
and was secured
before he recovered
from the stunning
effect. From that
day onward Pale-
face stood like a
post whenever Jack
sought to catch
him, though with
the rest of us he
still remained un-
approachable. When
Jack went away
on a two-years’
droving trip the
old trouble and blasphemy continued; but
the day he came back he walked out into
a 5000-acre paddock and bridled the terror
without the least trouble.
* * * *
“Kerys”: After a severe storm, the son
of a Maoriland naturalist, C. A. McCall,
walked out to view the damage round about
his home at Harakeke, on the Coromandel
Peninsula. In a channel cut through one
of the big sand-dunes he came on a
heap of bones and egg-shells, which on
examination proved to be the remains of a
moa and the remnants of bones and beaks
belonging to a family of young birds. The
find included a beak with the teeth still pre-
served, and the throat-rings of the huge bird
were picked up in dozens. S. C. McCall, the
finder's father, puts the find down as the
most valuable moa collection to date, and
dates it back 500 years. It is under offer
to the Auckland Museum.
* * * *
“M.M.M.”: During their trek across the
Specks hinterland to Great Lake to take
part iii the corroboree, the S’Australian
Boy Scouts “lived on the country,” and
snakes caught en route were cooked and
picked to the bare bones. Tiger, brown
and black snakes contributed to the larder.
When the troop finally encamped on the
shores of the lake, they were objects of
great interest to the other scouts. Their
slogan, “Use Yer Initiative,” was blazoned
on a banner above their tents. you
the chaps who eat snakes?” asked a Speck
scout. ‘‘Yes, we are,” came in chorus. “Then
here’s one for you,” said the Tassie, handing
over a wliippic entwined round a stick.
Five minutes later the snake was sizzling
amongst fat and cinders, while the snake-
eating S’Australians waited round the fire.
CUTTING DOWN OVERHEAD EXPENSES.
“Say, Blokey, ’are yer got any objections to th’ missus movin’ in ’ere — it’s a bit of a
strain keepin’ two ’omes goin’?”
“Rab” : The organised shooting campaigns
against flying-foxes on the coast, mentioned
by “X2X” (B. 20/l/’27), may result in
great trouble to struggling orchardists in
other parts of the State. Recently fruit-
growers on the Murrumbidgee Irrigation
Area have found flying-foxes among their
fruit-trees, and investigations have led to
the discovery of colonies in the swamps at
Tuekerbil and Willambong. The local theory
is that the wholesale destruction on the
coast has driven the unwelcome survivors
inland, and there is talk of the organisation
of an effective campaign against the menace.
The suggestion of “X2X” as to the use of
toxic gas might possibly be adopted with
jirofit bv the stragglers on the M.I.A.
* * * *
“Zoolo”: Has any Abo. reader known of
a cross between a domestic cat and a pos-
sum? We have something that is a cat at
some points and a ’possum at others. She
has a curly tail, part of her body is covered
with ordinary hair, and part
with very fine fur. She has
a narrower face and more
slender paws than are usual
amongst cats, and curiously-
shaped back legs. She is a
very silent animal, and when
she tries to mew the result
is a hoarse whisper, but
when angry or excited she
screams like an angry ’pos-
sum, and her tail curls until
it forms two circles, like a
pug-dog’s. Ordinarily puss
carries her appendage in one
loose ring on either the right
or left side. She can stretch
it out or curl it round her
paws, but prefers to carry
it in any position but cat-
wise. On both dark and
moonlight nights we have
seen her playing with a
couple of ’possums, touching
noses. The mother ’possum
and her youngster are quite
fearless, and come down
from the tall gum-trees to
take food from our hands,
the two sitting on one post
while puss sits on the next
one. The ’possums are wild
ones, made trustful by years
of kindness. Puss was a
stray, picked up one win-
ter’s night when she was a
tiny kitten. Her own kittens are ordinary,
but never very robust.
* * * *
“Chloe”: “A.G.C.” (B. 20/l/’27) asks
how to free dogs from ticks. Try this. Make
a strong solution of lysol, about one-third
to two-thirds water; soak an old blanket in
the solution, and sponge the dog till the skin
is well saturated; then fold the blanket
closely round the body and strap it in place;
as the blanket dries put on more of the
solution and keep it on for 48 hours. The
dog probably will not like this treatment,
and it is best to tie him down when apply-
ing it. If subsequently the skin seems sore
put on a tallow or sulphur ointment. Some
dogs have skins much more tender than
others. Modify the strength according to the
age and skin-texture of the animal. Another
and very simple remedy is useful for clogs
with little hair. Mix an ointment consisting
of strong soap with a dash of caustic-soda,
and add brown sugar and turpentine. Work
this mixture to a smooth ointment about
the consistency of linoleum-cream, and anoint
the afflicted parts till the pest falls out.
Frequent bathings in strong lysol water are
a preventive.
“Morob”: A strong tobacco solution will
free a dog from ticks. It is best applied by
filling a tub with the solution and then stand-
ing the animal in it long enough for the stuff
to penetrate the hair and reach the
skin underneath. The solution may be made
from ordinary black tobacco, or may be
obtained ready made for garden purposes.
It should be used in a rather greater strength
than is generally needed for plants.
“C.”: For ticks these two recipes have
proved effective. The first is to gather up
the loose skin about the part where the
tick is, and drop a little turps or kerosene
on the tick and then pierce it with a red-
hot needle. Dose the dog with castor-oil
and warm milk, and don’t let him touch
meat till he recovers, which will be in a
few days. The second is to apply plenty of
iodine and cut the tick off with a pair of
OH THESE 'USBANDS!
“Wot’s the matter?”
“Me ’usband’s just jumped orf a fifteen-storey building.”
“Gracious! ’As the silly coio ’urt ’isself?”
scissors as close to the skin as possible.
Then dose the dog with Epsom salts (half
a packet) mixed with a teaspoon of baking-
soda dissolved in milk. Repeat the soda and
milk, with only a little salts, two or three
times a day, and keep the dog from all solid
food for a few daj’s.
a SOLDIER-SETTLER’S CALENDAR.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
JANUARY, go without
Holidays you dreamed about;
Face another year of graft
Humping the old overdraft;
Scatter blessings fore and aft!
FEBRUARY, start by sowing
Rape to keep the aphis going;
Star and saffron thistles bloom;
Night-time brings blue ghosts of gloom,
P.N.’s trotting round the room!
MARCH, you keep your fallow stirred
While the rest gets Bathurst-burred;
Local store smiles sparingly,
So you write the R. 1.8. :
“Good old uncle, stick to me!”
APRIL, spend yourself complete
Putting in your early wheat;
Dream of harvesters a-drumming,
Fifteen bags an acre summing ;
Coogee girls and surftime coming!
MAY, the merry month for sowing.
Keep your jaded horses going,
For from dawn till dark there’s bare time;
Man and horse, it’s hardship’s sharetime ;
Scare your cockatoos in spare time.
JUNE is slack, so take your ease
Spraying lice on orchard trees,
Rooting rabbits from their lair,
Wiring fences worse for wear,
Mending trousers past repair!
In JULY the same old round—-
Getting ready next year’s ground,
Breaking up the last year’s stubble,
Ploughing fallow for new trouble;
Some day you will strike the double!
CROWDED.
“If-that bloke ever gets properly crook ’e won’t know if the pain’s in
his back or his stomach.”
AUGUST, when the blowfly cheers,
Chase the old ewes with the shears;
, See the first grasshopper hop;
Tray for rain to save the crop—
“ Lord, send down a little drop!”
Sweet SEPTEMBER bfiiigs a flood,
Twenty acres spoiled with mud;
Fence floats down the creek, and now
Neighbor comes to start a row.
Clover bursts the only cow!
Comes OCTOBER, all mischance
(Ah, the dear old days in France!).
Grubs are in your lucerne-patch,
Grass seeds on your lambs like thatch.
Be a settler, boy, and batch!
In NOVEMBER watch the bloke
With the store begin to joke,
Then the crop’s beyond all doubt!
Trot the good old header out! . x
Hit old Hard-times on the shout!
All DECEMBER, flies and heat,
One wild struggle for the wheat;
Fire, and flood, and wind, and hail
Slink back beaten from your trail;
•Just two thousand bags for sale!
N.S.W.
H. E. HORNE.


The Only Finance Company
Do not place Motor and Cash Orders Limited in the same class as other finance
companies. The following facts furnish abundant evidence that it stands
absolutely alone in its twin objects of motor finance and cash orders- in its double
source of income and profit in its amazing dividend-earning capabilities and
in its highly specialised management.
THE ONLY FINANCE COMPANY
THE ONLY FINANCE COMPANY
THE ONLY FINANCE COMPANY
THE ONLY FINANCE COMPANY
THE ONLY FINANCE COMPANY
THE ONLY FINANCE COMPANY
THE ONLY FINANCE COMPANY
to commence operations with £lOO,OOO worth of sound and profit-
able business contracted for and a further large amount of discount-
ing offered as soon as the capital is available. This means that the
business is ready and waiting for the company to handle. There
is no business to build up. The capital does not have to wait for
the business.
* # * *
whose Brokers [The British-Australian Underwriters (Amah),
Limited], although holding an option over 100,000 shares for a
period of years at par for their work and expenses in the formation
and flotation of the company, do not make any profit out of the
same, but are granting Option Rights to the holders of the first
100,000 shares, which, by the way, are rapidly being applied for
and will soon expire in consequence.
« # « *
about which financial writers have written that the company is in
a position to earn the largest profits of any finance company yet
launched in Australia. One financial expert stated that there would
be nothing astonishing in the shares rising to a value of from £5 to
£lO each.
* * * *
to commence the business of employing its capital within a few
weeks of its inception, so that your money invested to-day literally
begins to earn profits immediately. The company does not spend
—it only lends! And it takes ample security for every pound.
* * * *
combining two of the world’s greatest and most profitable under-
takings in one company—under one management—one department
being motor finance; the other cash-order finance—a double source
of income and profit.
* * * *
offering its capital for public subscription at the present time in
which there are no free shares issued to directors, promoters, brokers
or anyone else. Every share issued by the company has to be paid
for in solid cash.
* * * *
with highly qualified experts in charge of each of its two depart-
ments, and as everybody knows, management is one of the most
important features connected with a finance company.
Motor & Cash Orders, Ltd.
CAPITAL - - £500,000
Divided into
60,000 Ten Per Cent. Cumulative Preference Shares of £1 each, and
350,000 Ordinary Shares of £l each, offered for public subscription, payable 2/6 per Share on
application, 2/6 per Share on allotment, and the balance in calls of not more than
1/- per Share at intervals of not less than one month.
100,000 Ordinary Shares of £l each may be issued as stated in the prospectus.
ĕ
DIRECTORS:
SENATOR HON. W. MASSY GREENE, Company Manager, 4
Bridge Street, Sydney.
SIR EDWARD LUCAS, K.B. (late Agent-General for South Aus-
tralia), Menindie, South Australia.
H. C. MACFIE, Esq., Company Director, 14 Martin Place. Sydney.
PERCY FREEMAN, Esq., Investor, Shadfortli Street, Mosman.
SOLICITORS:
MINTER, SIMPSON & CO., Hunter Street, Sydney.
A EDITORS:
C. A. LE MAISTRE WALKER & CO., 115 Pitt Street, Sydney.
SECRETARIES:
RUSSELL & RUSSELL, Public Accountants and Auditors, 39 Bligh
Street, Sydney.
ORGANISING B ROKERS :
BRITISH-AUSTRALIAN UNDERWRITERS (AMAL.), LTD.,
Adyar House, Bligh Street, Sydney.
This advertisement was prepared
and inserted by British-Australian
Underwriters (Amal.), Ltd., Adyar
House, Bligh Street, Sydney.
Copies of the full Prospectus may be obtained
at the offices of British-Australian Underwriters
(Amal.), Ltd., Adyar House, Bligh St., Sydney.
To the Secretary,
MOTOR & CASH ORDERS, LIMITED,
C/o British-Australian Under writers ( Amal.), Ltd.,
Adyar House, Bligh Street, Sydney.
I ay ply herewith for and request you to allot me Preference and
Ordinary Shares in the above Company, in the terms of the
Prospectus issued' by you.
I agree to accept the same or any less number of shares that may be
allotted to me, and to he bound by the Memorandum and Articles of Association
of the Company, and I authorise you to enter my name in the Register as the
Proprietor of that number of shares.
I enclose my cheque for being 2/6 per share on application,
and, I agree to pay a further 2/6 per share on allotment and the balance as
provided for in the Prospectus of the Company.
Usual Signature
Full Name , . •
(Mr., Mrs, or Miss)
Address (in full) • •••
Occupation
Date
S.B. 10/2/’27.


Before They Leave
Give Them a
Travelling
Clock
No matter how rough the trip, this space-
saving clock will keep perfect time, and
at journey's end will look well on table
or mantelpiece.
The remarkable accuracy of our clocks is
the result of delicate adjustment and care-
ful selection from the world’s markets.
We stock only the best, and sell at bedrock
prices.
FAIRFAX &
The Oldest Jewellery House in Sydney.
30-hour movement Travelling Clock, fully jewelled,
luminous dial, 60/-
8-day movement Travelling Clock,' hilly jewelled,
luminous dial, 80/-
These clocks are contained in attractive, folding
leather cases which can be had in various colours.
ROBERTS, LTD.,
23 and 25 HUNTER STREET.
plain Finunrs—CAsn only.
\
4W
SHIRTS
COLLARS
PYJAMAS
"Good Pfellah
Christmas Gifts”
“Jimmy Possum”: 1 agree with “Talin-
dert” (B. 30/12/’2G) that there is nothing
in the theory that the number of bulls run-
ning with the herd determines the proportion
of female calves. A while back we had a
pure-bred Illawarra shorthorn calf-getter that
was continually straying, and though his
harem must have numbered close on a hun-
dred cows and heifers his progeny were nearly
all males. Advancing years made no percep-
tible difference in the sex of his offspring.
My experience among cattle has been that
some bulls have a tendency to produce a pre-
ponderance of one sex, despite the class of
cow mated with.
* * * *
“Borom”: Apropos the vitality of seeds.
About 10 years ago some tests were made
with a small quantity of mummy-wheat
found in a tomb near Luxor. Under care-
fully-prepared conditions some of the grains
THE PHILANTHROPIST.
THE SPIDER: “Do any good last night, Chiller?”
THE THUG : “Yes; give a poor drunk bloke an excuse for not talcin’ ’is pay ’ome to
’is missus.”
duly came to life, although the plants soon
died. Nor is the phenomenon confined to
wheat. Some seeds of the cinchona or
quinine-tree were taken in the sixteenth
century from South America to Spain by a
member of one of the Spanish Viceroys’
suites. After having been put away and
forgotten for just on 100 years, they were
planted by a descendant of the original
owner, and from them there grew trees which
nourished.
* * * *
“J.G.”: Evidently “Emel” (B. 20/l/’27)
has struck a brand-new species of woolly
aphis, if it can be kept in check by Bordeaux
mixture. My experience as a fruit-grower is
that the aphis will get fat on the lime-blue-
stone solution, which is useful for fungus dis-
eases only, such as black spot on apples and
leaf-curl on peaches. Tobacco and nicotine
solutions are also of no use. The only effec-
tive remedy is what is called a contact spray,
such as red oil, crude kerosene or plain kero-
sene. Arsenate of lead, though good to keep
codlin-motli in check, is valueless as a woolly
aphis destroyer. The most effective remedy
I have found has been to paint the patches of
aphis with kerosene, using an old paint-brush
and rubbing the oil well in. This, of course,
would be too slow if a large orchard were
badly affected by the aphis. There the only
remedy would be to spray with red oil or
kerosene emulsion.
* * * *
“Sanitos”: The wet weauier had held up
the shearing, so old McLeod set the two
“choom” jackeroos to work cutting wood
with a circular saw in which several holes
had been bored to make it “whistle.” Pre-
sently Hard-case Jim strolled up. “ ’Struth !”
says Jim, “you blokes ain’t goin’ ter cut
wood with a saw with holes in it like that!
Yer want yer life insured if yer do.” The
“cliooms” promptly complained to old Mac
about such a dangerous piece of ironmon-
gery. Old Mac caressed his whiskers per-
plexedly. “Damned if I know what to do
with you fellers,” he said. “If I send you
out to cut burr-rs a blanky meteorite might
fall on you!”
* * * *
“Jim Carcw”: Glass bottles certainly do
cause many, many bush fires (B. 20/l/’27).
There must have been something wrong with.
“Heredot’s” experiment. With any curved
piece of white bottle-glass a man who under-
stands what he is about can produce a flame
in less than half an hour. Dry grass, bark
or dead leaves burst into flame much sooner
than paper does.
* * * *
“Hinemoa”: How’s this tor a dog? Young
St. John had a collie named Beer; he was
just dog and had no family-tree, but being
a thorough gentleman he always wore a
collar. From the time he was a pup ho
followed St. John to the station, six days a
week, in time to catch the city-bound morn-
ing train. He was always on the platform
when the 5.12 p.m. puffed in from town.
Things would have gone on thus indefinitely
Inal not George Windsor invited St. John to
Samoa in 1914. Beer saw him off, as usual,
and was sitting on the station when the
5.12 came in. The boss didn’t step off, but
Beer reckoned that as he had seen St. John
go, St. John must come back some time; so
every evening for nine months he met the train.
By luck, when St. John returned from
Samoa, he came home in the 5.12, and great
was the rejoicing of Beer. His joy was short-
lived, for the boss was soon off again to
say “Hullo” to Fritz. This time Beer
couldn’t be fooled. The boss had turned up
once, he’d surely do it again, and every even-
ing, rain or shine, he was at the station in
time for the 5.12. The extraordinary thing
was that he never went to the station on
a Sunday. For close on three years Beer
met the 5.12. Then, one evening—this time
it was planned—a chap crawled out into
the platform on a couple of crutches. Beer
was on him with one bound, and nearly
knocked St. John down. He licked his face,
sniffed the wooden leg, then raising liis con-
tralto to its fullest extent, told the world
that the boss was home,
* * * *
“X2X” : “Carisbrook, Jun.,” is lucky if
the only after-effects of the death-adder bite
he received have been a few blisters on his
foot (B. 20/l/’27). Sometimes the effects
of the venom persist for years, and often
REMOVING A WRONG IMPRESSION.
KROSTACIOSs: “ Hey, you loafer, you keep outa da way! Da inspector come, he blame
da feesh for da smell!”
exhibit an extraordinary periodicity in recur-
rence. I know of one case in which a youth
who was bitten by a black-snake at Narran-
dera (N.S.W.) in the month of November
suffered from a recurrence of well-marked
symptoms each November, within a few
days of the date on which he had been bitten.
The bite was on his arm, and when the
periodical manifestations showed themselves
the limb would swell up, with extreme pain,
while small red pustules appeared with a
profuse serous watery discharge, accom-
panied by nausea and giddiness. In another
case, a woman bitten on the ankle at Gos-
ford (N.S.W.) suffered from similar but
milder symptoms exery six months. So
far medical science has not been able to
advance any reason for this periodicity, con-
cerning which there has been little research
work carried out.
* * * *
“M.L.F.”: Has “Toby C.” (B. 20/l/’27)
tried turpentine for fleas V I have found
it effective. Turpentine has the advantage
to recommend it that it does not injure bed-
clothes. Sheets sprinkled with it will come
out from the wash much whiter looking than
under ordinary wash conditions.
“G.F.M.”: I obtained peace from fleas by
using common salt dissolved in water poured
over the floors so that it dried out like a
hoar frost. After that they refused to call.
“Sucre”: If ordinary black pepper is
sprinkled on the floor of “Toby C.’s” hut, he
soon won’t find a flea on the premises.
* * * *
“Pick”: The virtues of Australian sassa-
fras take long in winning recognition, but
some day a savant may arise to discover
the vegetable’s commercial value. Two species
of the tree flourish in bushland, one sparsely
spread over the eastern slopes and jungles
of the N.S.W. southern tableland, the other
common in the heavily-timbered areas of
Victoria. The bark, steeped in boiling water,
has medicinal properties, and to the bush-
man with an empty caddy is a good substi-
tute for tea. With its help, too, a golden
colored beer may be brewed that possesses
an extremely pleasant tang, and has dis-
tinctly tonic effects. Sassafras wood planes
up well, and has a variegated straw-and-green
tinge and a spicy smell. It is an insect-
resister, and there is nothing better on the
market for the inside lining of wooden
dwellings or for furniture. Boards up to
2ft. wide may be cut from any well-grown
tree without knots or blemishes.
* * * *
“Dunbar”: “Yais,” said old Joe Meldon,
“them bullicks wot ‘Geoloin’ an’ ‘Wang’
an’ ‘Ole Dan’ gas erbout wus smooge bul-
licks, nothin’ else. Why, I’ve druv bullicks
orl me natiral, from Brisbane to the Downs,
throo Cunningham’s Gap, an’ Gorman’s Gap,
over the ole Tollbar-road to Toowoomba,
an’ up through ’Ell ’Ole in the days before the
railway ran from Ipswich over the Main
Range, an’ never knoo er bullick yet to show
’is gratitood. An’ why the ’ell should lie,
seein’ ’e’s bin flogged an’ cursed from steer
to bullick? But Bluey now, an’ Leopard,
them wus bullicks. Bluey was the intelli-
gentist. He was bred by Patrick Leslie, on
Canning Downs, and Leopard by Arthur
Hodgson, on Eton Vale, an’ they knoo wot
bullicks wus. In them days the blacks
erbout Ilelidon an’ below the Range wus
bloodthirsty savages, an’ once while camped
at the Lockyer I was attacked by a tribe led
by the notorious Ole Blear-eyed Bob, who
speared me through me right leg, an’ I couldn't
walk. Then Ole Leopard 'e ups an’ bellows
a charge, an’ the whole blarsted team, ’cept
Bluey, charged the blacks, an’ they scooted
’ell for leather into ther scrub. But ole
Bluey ’e ’ung back near the dray, an’, seein'
me ’elpless, mooed in bullick talk an’ sed to
liisself, thin kin’ of orl the hoggins I had
guv ’im in me day: ‘Now I’ve got ther
blighter where I want ’im,’ an’ ’e gored me
ter death. That was 70 year ago, but it
seems ter me, ter ’ear some cows tork, that
bullieks must ’avc grown more yuman since
then.”
* * * *
“J.G.”: It’s a curious fact that the three
primary colors, red, blue and yellow, are
seldom, if over, all seen in the. same family
of flowers. We have plenty of plants that pro-
duce red blooms, and some of the same family
will produce blue, but there will be no yellow.
Again, another family will produce reds and
yellows, but no blues. Still another family’s
offspring will be made up of yellows and
blues, but without reds. We have bright red
salvias, also vivid blue ones, but no yellows.
There are plenty of red roses and yellow
ones, but no blue ones. There are red
and yellow ranunculi, but no blue. Then in
that closely allied family, the anemone, there
are reds and blues, but no yellows. Has
any Abo. reader come across the three colors
in one plant family?
KNEW HE WAS SOME SORT OF
SERVICE MAN.
OFFICER : “Come on! Put some life into it.
You’re in the Navy now!”
RECRUIT : “Thanhs so much for reminding
me. I was beginning to think it was the
Domestic Service!”
“Venturino”: Does any Abo. Councillor
know anything of the effect of ammonia oh
snakes? Joe Murray (S.A.) used to walk
among his snakes barefooted, even when
they were in a bad mood. I noticed
they carefully avoided his feet. "Yes. he
said, “I always rub my feet with strong
ammonia before I go in. No snake will come
near it, let alone bite.”
JOHNSON.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
He said his name was Johnson and I quite believe
it true.
He breathed upon me gently—he was very, very
fou’;
His breath was pretty deadly, enough to kill a
eat,
And he said his name was Johnson and he came
from Ballarat.
He told me tales of India, of China and Peru;
He said he’d sailed with Shackleton —-I quite believe
it true.
He talked of climbing Everest and scaling Ararat,
And he mentioned lie was Johnson and he came
from Ballarat.
He spoke of David Livingstone and great men that
he knew;
As a boy he’d been with Stanley on a trek to
Timbuctoo.
From his modest observations I have quite decided
that
The war was won by Johnson who belongs to
Ballarat.
He assured me he was Johnson and I quite believe
it true;
I left him sleeping soundly—he was very, very fou’.
And if you meet a gentleman whose breath would
kill a cat
You’ll maybe find it’s Johnson and he hails from
Ballarat.
N.S.W.
VISCONTI.


Er
ft
e:
P
'W
l - Jim
:.. w*
WWWW
"W/A
w
ill
v,;:
■ I
il
' *>
BH
■
A
9
;wm
mm
m
W#
I
m
m
hHI
HHtaiiMi
i
m.M
\:j.
wmt
Wtj
mm
■iiliii
4ft
ipik m
Mm -■■•
Hr ii
Hi
s
11
Ww
W///.
m
\
Jk * W
mm
m
, J
mw,
WWW/
WHISICEY
B. SEPPELT & SONS, LTD.,
Melbourne, Victoria.
AUSTRALIAN AGENTS:
TOOTH & CO., LIMITED, Sydney, N.S.W.
PERKINS & CO., LTD., Brisbane, Q.
MILNE & CO., Perth, W.A.
MILNE & CO., Adelaide, S.A.


Under
Royal
Warrant
Vintage 1917.
To H.M.
GeorgeV
CHAMPAGNE <
Charles Heidsieck
aaiMS
Australasian Agents—
Swift & Company Limited
SYDNEY.
champagne
REIMS
PELLISSON
Cognac Brandy.
lo YEARS OLD.
Australasian Agents—
SWIFT & COMPANY LIMITED, Sydney.
It W 1361 for
Reservations.
Wentworth Hotel
Church Hill, Sydney.
SITUATED in a portion of old
Sydney, just a few minutes from
the Theatres, Shopping, G.P.0.,
Circular Quay and the Railway.
Attached to the hotel is the
famous Cafe, with its gorgeous
Palm Court, a splendid Dance
Orchestra and a sparkling Cabaret,
afternoon and evening.
Sydney’s Social Rendezvous.
The cen/rv of Queen s /on c/s
cJ/s/ingu/sfac/ Soc/o/ Life.
Wotel
BRISBANE
Magnificent B a 11-
room. Palm Court
and Lounges at the disposal of
guests and their friends at all
times.
Suites de Luxe—double and single
Bedrooms, with Bathrooms
attached. Hot and cold running
water and Electric Fans in every
Bedroom, and every modern con-
venience for the comfort of guests,
Telegrams and Cables: Lennon’s, Brisbane,
Telephone, Central 57 80 —10 Lines.
ė
A WOMAN'S
LETTER
SAY-
Kayser
SLIPPER HEEL
([?])
STOCKINGS
Stanley Melbourne Bruce, a little greyer,
impeccable as to tailorings, and with the
memory that he had cut something of a
figure at the Imperial Conference gilding
his smile, returned to his native shores last
week. With only a star to guide them,
three kings of old reached their journey's
end, but a whole fleet of wildly-buzzing aero-
planes led the Priminister through the Heads
and up the Harbor ways. Also a great
hatching of politicians and men of affairs
waited to seize him by the hand and inquire
anxiously how much of Europe’s golden
fleece, if any, he had managed to bring home.
After a whirl through the city that took in
a civic reception, the first Minister sustained
a citizens’ complimentary luncheon at the
Wentworth. This was spread in the ball-
room, and at a small table that pretended
to have no connection with the feast sat
the great man’s wife. Here, with a trio
of women friends, Mrs. W. Macleod, Mrs. Guy
and Miss Bonsor, gazing at a centre-piece
of droopy dahlias as the cool fruit-cup
circled, she murmured her impressions oi
the notabilities of England. Not much, one
felt, that the cool, grey eyes of the slim lady
had not photographed. Like her husband,
Mrs. Bruce is a dresser of renown. Her
coming-home frock was of sheerest black (she
is in mourning, you remember), its collar
and cuffs of pale amber net appliqued with
an ivy-leaf design. Her droopy black hat,
which was of crinoline with a rather wide
band of black velvet about its crown, had
an edging of this same amber lace. Her
bouquet was in fuchsia tones, satin-ribboned
and important-looking. Chits innumerable
were handed to her by discreet-looking atten-
dants, but they were only requests for inter-
views. A profile like hers deserves more.
Melba, seated in a box at the Theatre
Royal on Saturday night, lowered a bouquet
of roses to Strella Wilson, who had performed
some very fine vocal acrobatics during the
evening. The Dame timed her arrival so nicely
that the handclapping drowned the sounds
of an orchestra already battling hard against
feminine chattering; and she stayed to the
end. That is more than some visiting vocal
and musical stars do. Their habit seems to
be to arrive for the greeting the house gives
them, and then fade out when the lights are
dimmed. Nellie staged a supper-party on
Sunday at the Australia, and one wondered
if her desire to couch beneath a carillon were
as keen after the cheerio as it was when she
gave her interview to the Sunday papers.
True, she stipulated that she’d have to be
dead when bedded out beneath the campanile.
And just as well, for death is about the only
sleep a carillon cannot shatter.
The Archgaiters Wright couple leave next
month for a trip to England. The Arch-*
bishop brought the benign influence of the
Church to greet Stanley Bruce on the latter’s
return from Europe, and his calm was
in striking contrast to the restless
energy of William Morris Hughes. A
monster brew of tea was drunk in honor
of Mrs. Wright by members of the Council
of the Mothers’ Union last week. This was
done in one of the C. of E. fastnesses, the
tearooms in Baret House, run in the
interests of the Men’s Society. The Arch-
bishop’s lady’s attire had a dash of Vatican-
purple mixed with its black checks. Mrs.
Hey-Sharp and Mrs. H. C. Barff were the
speechmakers.
A young man who met his bride at the
altar of St. Clement’s, Mosman, last week,
had an ancestor who assisted in the deposi-
tion of Governor Bligh. He is Arthur
Dudley Johnston, and his great-grandfather
was Lieutenant-Colonel George Johnston,
one-time owner of the estate which is now
the suburb of Annandale. After Bligh’s
departure in 1808 the gallant colonel was
Acting-Governor of N. S. Wales. Mrs. Arthur
Johnston was Nancy O’Shanesy, and is
related to the old Dubbo family of O’Rourke.
February, with its heavy clouds like so
many steam foments, is wrapped about the
city. But for the southerly that almost
nightly like an ice spray follows the Turk-
ish bath of day, Sydney would be wilted
and gasping. As it is, Legs still gaily go the
cabaret way. Last week’s party for the
Big Brother movement could not lmve been
larger and more etaergetic if snow had
lain on the ground outside the Ambassadors.
Women in droves, fanning themselves furi-
ously, entered the pillared portico to that
underground cavern of delights. Once within,
they continued to fan as long as the music
was still. When it was in motion, they
danced with a persistence that speaks well
for the endurance of the species. Out of the
vortex of chiffons and lace, blown on the
wings of jazz, they emerged for a breather,
while Elsa Stralia sang and Girlie Pepper
danced, and again while Betty Armstrong
and Maxin Brodie performed for their enter-
tainment. Muriel Herbert and Mrs. West-
phail organised the success, which had for
presidents the Arthur Rickard and Henry
Braddon kuightesses. The door-money goes
to help the expenses of the Big Brother ball
in March.
The sirens on the committee of the Boy
Scouts’ ball, are concentrating on luring the
Royalties to their revel in the Town Hall
on April 1. Although the York couple are
not making a hobby of attending money-
raising functions, the Scout ball is expected
to prove the exception. They will go on to
this function from the gala performance at
Her Majesty’s. The State Viking and his
lady have this dance under their wing, and
daughter Elaine is president of the younger-
set committee.
Nature must have had her eye on wedding
pageantry when she designed the gladioli.
They strike just the right note of festivity
without abandon. Their beauty is of the
conventional order; it breaths the orthodox.
All of which was exemplified the other night
at the wedding of pretty Thelma Greer, of
Roseville. Thelma’s six attendants carried
an armful of the decorative blooms in tones to
harmonise with the pink, mauve and green
georgettes glowing beneath the gold lace of
their frocks. Hats of gold lace and tulle
surmounted each of the six heads, but the
tiny trainbearer bound her locks with pink
rosebuds, and was otherwise a froth of white
georgette and lace. The train she carried
was a cloud effect, in white and pink georg-
ette. This was an afterthought to the bride’s
cobwebby raiment of white Chantilly lace
and silver lame. An old point-lace veil
and a cascade of orchids and pink roses were
other addenda of the outfit eagerly noted as
her father steered Thelma up the aisle of
St. Philip’s. The young man waiting for her
was George Clark, of Dubbo, a son of the
merchant Marcus Clarks. The toasts were
drunk at the Ambassadors amid decorations
that suggested an old English rose-garden.
This is a Bernice Agar study of the wife
of W. T. Coyle, Sydney’s new District Court
Judge, who in
his Sydney Uni.
days was a
great oarsman
and footballer.
As Crown Pro-
secutor, the
successor t o
Judge Bevan
was noted for
tempering jus-
tice with
mercy, and
the strain of
mercy has
never become
diluted by his
ass o ci a tion
with the sub-
ject of this
picture. Much
of Mrs. Coyle’s
time and
thought have
been given lo
her. pet organisation, the Prisoners’ Aid
Society. Her family (three girls and three
boys), sewing guilds, gardening and hostess-
ing great parties of lasses and lads are Mrs.
Coyle’s other time-absorbers.
A silver platter heaped with gold (or,
rather, its cheque equivalent) was handed to
ex-Mayoress Cecilia Walsh the other after-
noon. The gift was from 700 faithful
admirers of the placid young lady’s adminis-
tration of Town Hall amenities, and the
Wentworth housed the melting enthusiasts.
Pictures and silverware and bouquets to her
glory made a little rampart over which
gleamed the smiling face of Cecilia, shadowed
by a wide felt hat. The new Mayoress, Mrs.
Mostyn, came to the gathering, and was
handed fair words and crimson roses by presi-
dent Mrs. A. Hain ; and as George Portus
was the unofficial M.C. the affair went off as
smoothly as strawberries and cream. The
temperature was in the nineties, but not
even the hectic mercury could restrain the
guests from violent exercise in the form of
applause for the really good music provided.
Manly was filled with important people on
Saturday. Sydney’s Mayor Mostyn, with
his lady, was among those present, and so
was John Beasley, president of the Trades
and Labor Council. Alma Creighton, in
ivory satin, georgette and tulle, made a
striking appearance. It was matrimony, not
arbitration, that interested Jack and Alma;
Father McDonald presented, a life settle-
ment of their case at the Mary Immaculate
Church, and the Lud Mayor stood by the
bridegroom, while three maids, suggestive of
a posy of sweet-peas in their mauve, blue
and pink georgettes, gave the bride courage.
Bride’s mother, Mrs. Moran, beckoned about
50 guests for refreshment into Dungowan,
at Manly.
John Flanagan’s show is attracting the
right sort of attention to the Fine Art Gal-
leries in King-street. Before the exhibition
was open to the public nearly £BOO worth of
the striking black-and-white work had been
sold. The Gallery trustees bought two,
and highly-paid listeners-in to a city’s heart,
kidneys, ears and lungs were conspicuous
among the buyers. But Macquarie was not
the only professional street to which pictures
were addressed; Phillip-street admitted a few
to dwell with its rustling parchments. Frank
Marion, of Truth, and John kicked off to-
gether as the brilliant students of Dattilo
Rubbo’s studio.
Judith Fletcher presents this latest picture
of Mrs. Jamieson Williams, a small lady with
a great heart and a strong Scots accent who
has hopes of
one day repre-
senting her
country in Par-
liament. At
the last State
elections Mrs.
Jamieson Wil-
liams stood as
an Independent
for North
Shore, and re-
ceived such a
vote as should
encourage her
to try again.
Woman is the
star whose rise
Mrs. Jamieson
Williams has
watched with
eagerness since
girlhood, a n d
she is con-
vinced that the
sex will make its way even to those fast-
nesses which proud man still holds, such .as
pulpits and positions in Cabinet. Politics is
only one of the lady’s interests; she is presi-
dent of the N.S.W. branch of the W.C.T.U.
Her husband is a Presbyterian clergyman,
and they live at Manly. Perhaps that is the
secret of her optimism.
Constance Docker, one of the junior trio
that was separated from the rest of Judge
Docker’s prolific family by quite a span of
years, is about to embark for America, and
for matrimony with Dr. Hugh Kingsley
Ward. There was a great family send-off the
other night at Burdekin House, when the
pink and gold Docker coloring was flown
by nearly every second guest. The two recep-
tion-rooms of the old home —one the Little
Theatre, the other the cafe run in the inter-
ests of Prince Alfred’s—were blazing with
roses for the occasion. The guest of the night
wore Egyptian red georgettes, and sister
Sylvia, one of the five hostesses (all sisters
or sisters-in-law) contrasted the family fair-
ness with sky-after-rain blue. The bride-
groom-to-be is a son of that scholarly old
Sydney journalist Dr. Ward. He was a
Rhodes scholar at Oxford when war broke
out. Then he became a soldier. Now he is
a lecturer at Harvard. Judging from the
reports of the ball games between Yale and
his own Uni., the young doctor’s soldiering
will be as valuable to him as his book know-
ledge.
Mrs. Mabel Frances Prosser was notable
among last week’s brides. She became Mrs.
R. A. Black, of Wallangra station, Inverel!,
at St. James’s Church, supported by georg-
ette frocking of mixed beige and cyclamen.
Her crinoline hat, reminiscent of Sargeant,
was decorated with a rose of the old-fashioned
full-blown variety. The Australia supplied
the wedding meats to an accompaniment of
pink roses and Mendelssohn.
The fox that gnawed the vitals of the
small Spartan boy will find another vest
to do his foul work under when the Duke
and Duchess arrive at the Town Hall. Mayor
Mostyn has been refused a set of robes and
a cable length of chain in which to welcome
the Royalties. Can’t you imagine the tumult
and the strife palpitating beneath the vest
of his dress-suit as he does the high hand-
shake? For no matter how snug the cut.
how satisfactory the knowledge that two
pairs of pants go with the ensemble, a dress-
suit cannot be as impressive as broadcloth
begirt with bunny. One alderman who has
been a gaud Mayor, and has everything to the
uttermost shoe-buckle, flatly refused to lend
his equipment to Mayor Mostyn. “I had to
buy it; let Mostyn do the same,” he said.
Town-Clerk Layton lacks a cloak of
office, too. And goodness knows what her
R.II. will say to that.
Another engagement of last week concerns
Turramurra and Mosman. The girl in the
case is Beatrice lolc, only daughter of the
Dr. Halliday couple of the North Shore line;
the young man is Dr. Eric D. Hull, of Mos-
man.
The biggest Jewish gathering for over a
year showed at the Maccabean Hall how
much local Jewry thinks of Mr. and Mrs.
A. M. Loewenthal, who are departing on a
year’s tour which will include a visit to
Palestine —every Jj»w who now goes abroad
has a look at Palestine. When Mr. Loewen-
thal became president of the Maccabean Hall,
two years ago, there was a mortgage on the
place of £24,000. He undertook a personal
canvass, with the result that only a little over
a thousand ot debt now remains. The A.M.P
staff also gave Mr. Loewenthal a send-off".
Affluence is not usually associated with
agency m insurance, but Mr. Loewenthal Ims
bought out of his efforts that big towered
home m Randwiek which the Grammar
behoof trustees recently purchased, intending
to turn it into a hostel for country scholars.
Quite half the big crowd of women who
attended the at-home at the Lyceum Club
on 1 hursday imagined they were going to
meet Leah .Russell Myers, the Sydney con-
tralto. But it was Mrs. Leo Myers a
member of the London Lyceum Club and a
much-traveHed woman, who introduced her-
self in a rattling good speech. Mrs Myers
had much to say in praise of the London
Lyceum Club. When it was first opened men
looked upon it askance, and declared women
were not clubbable. The sceptics have lived
to eat their words and the well-served weekly
dinners at the Lyceum, this being the
one weekly occasion when the sterner sex
is admitted to the club. Mrs. Myers looked
picturesque in a black frock with wide sleeves
and a close-fitting hat, from the sides of
which shone her lint-white locks.
There's another job waiting for the Duke
and Duchess. It’s to add Royal applause to
the centenary celebrations of the Australian
Museum. Although not known by this title
until 1836, and not incorporated till 17 years
later, it was as far back as 3827 that a col-
lection of birds and other objects of natural
history “was authorised and formed as the
Colonial Museum." The original collection
was housed in the Judge-Advocate’s office
on a corner of what is now the Lands Office
site; later it became a sort of adjunct of the
I'ublic Library in the Chief Justice’s resi-
dence. Then it was moved to the old Sur-
veyor-General's office in Macquarie-street,
and later to the then newly-built Woolloo-
mooloo Court House. So the early birds of
the Museum have had many a flitting before
coming to roost in their present unfinished
home. That Sydney dwellers do not regard
the Museum as a sort of morgue can be
guessed from the fact that over 280,000
people paid it a visit last year. And you
can’t blame wet weather for it all, either.
Miss Brisbane’s week: —
“Abie’s Irish Rose” ran a season of 13 nights,
which proved a lucky number. There is a new
singer at the Empire and a beautiful balloon ballet
in which Dorothy Manning solos, and the Charleston
Six jazz in Oriental costumes. Murial Starr, in
“Secrets,” reveals herself at His Majesty’s on the
12th. She has several plays that have not been
staged .in Brisbane before, notably “The Goldfish.”
For George Brooke and his wife and Eddie Cahill,
Mrs. M. Forrest gave a tea at the Mandarin lounge
in the Carlton, in a setting of red and yellow roses;
the guests included the Readings, St. Johns and
Alice Gore Jones (just back from a holiday at
Tambourine).
An enterprising weather prophet has offered
to give £l5O to the Children’s Hospital if we have
more than six fine days this month in Brisbane.
We have already had three, and are buying new
goloshes, but it is an emerald green world and is
likely to remain so till St. Patrick’s Day is past.
A new Governor will be one of the star events con-
nected with the Royal visit to Queensland.
Yida Hutton, who will soon be married, is drink-
ing many cups of tea with pals. Doris Heindorff
plied the teapot at Moreton-street, New Farm, in
surroundings bright with Oriental-hued zinnias;
“bride and bridegroom” dolls decked the tea tables.
The hostess wore ivory georgette with blue and red
’broideries. Vida Hutton wore t&bac crepe de
Chine and Mrs. Heindorff was in black marocain.
Margot and Ina McSwain took the prize for mah
jongg, and Mrs. G. G. Hutton was first in the
bridge competition.
Frank Cardow, son of the F. Cardows of Elms
Hall, Vacy, N.S.W., married Vivienne M. Robinson,
daughter of the late James Robinsons, of Fairview,
Milton, in Christ Church, Milton. The bride wore
ivory satin and Belgian lace, and her silver-tissue
train was lined with shell-pink. Mrs. R. Douglas
lent the ’broidered Brussels-net veil. White dahlias,
gerberas and lilies made the bridal bouquet, and
powder-blue taffetas dressed the ’maids, Gertrude
Robinson and Betty Cardow. The going-away gown
was of rose crepe de Chine.
A South Brisbane gentleman dug up his back
yard and discovered treasure trove in the shape of
old copper coins, one dated 1699 and others of 1799
and 1807 issue.
Edna Lomas is off by the Marella for Singapore,
where she will marry Edmund Dimmock; her father
and mother and her aunt, Mrs. Farrar, go along to
see the tying of the knot. The bride’s future home
is at Kelantan, Malay Straits.
W omen are to be allowed to invade the male
sanctity of the Constitutional Club. Crimson roses
dressed the tea tables, on the first appearance of
Eve, and Clarice Cox was amongst the singers in
the musical programme. Walter Devereux, the
retiring president, said he hoped the more deadly
sex would often be present.
Races, postponed from Saturday, took place at
Ascot in bright sunlight. Mrs. Isaac Moore had a tea
party on the committee-room verandah. Mrs. Stanley
Chapman wore brown, her brown hat having touches
of gold; Mrs. Cecil Palmer was in cornflower blue
with a grey stripe; Kathleen Hirschfeld wore
maize crepe de Chine; Phyllis Hunt (Sydney) was
in cinnamon ; and Mrs. William Bulcock chose lime
mariette and Nottingham lace.


BRQTHERSIXB
Diamond engagement Rings
£l5.
<£24.
£i9.
£3O. £3B.
o©®©© 3
£l6. £2B. £2O.
£55.
£42.
£35.
£2O.
£2B.
In addition to the attractive design, expert setting and high-
quality Gems, every ring from Hardy's will stand the keenest
comparison for price and value.
Years of specialisation in the manufacture of Diamond Engage-
ment Rings has evolved a standard of high quality and competi-
tive prices which is not excelled in Australia.
Five per cent, discount allowed for cash.
Hardy’s new illustrated Catalogue will be sent on request
H AR.DY
298-300
COLLINS ST.,
MELBOURNE.
BROTHERS LTD.
7/ouse oP Shrclasvcc VewcU&y
13 HUNTER STREET, SYDNEY.
And at LONDON.
JJ6-JIB
QUEEN ST.,
BRISBANE.
Rodge-Whitworth Motorcycle
RlDfcf-
FOUR O/H VALVE!
RUDCE—WHITWORTH PATENT
PROPORTIONAL COUPLED BRAKE!
FOUR SPEEDS
AUTOMATIC LUBRICATION
INTERCHANGEABLE WHEELS
The new Rudge Four
has got improvements
that no other motor cycle
has got. It is good for
a steady 60 m.p.h. The
new brakes are a great
advantage on bad roads.
■nrmitmiiu,,,,.
w
For full particulars write to the agent in your territory—
Flower, Davies and Johnson, 404 Murray street, Perth. Mes. Australia
Behrens Thiem Co., 3 Devon Hjase, Chesser-street, Adelaide, South
Rogers Bros. Pty. Ltd.. 305 Swanston-street, Melbourne. Victoria.
Biden and Roberts, 150 Hay-strset, Sydney, New South Wales
Canada Cycle and Motor Ageney(Q’land) Ltd., Creek-street, Brisbane,
Queensland.
J. Bilyard, 110 Elizabeth-street, Hobart, Tasmania.
Carl Mantach, 110 Charles-street, Launceston, Tasmania.
Factory Representative: James Thornell, Sheffield House, Pitt-street,
Sydney, N.S.W.
Rudge-Whitworth Ltd., Rudge Works, Coventry, England
“Buy ‘BRITISH’ and be proud,of it”
If any illustration in “THE BULLETIN” takes your fancy, write
to the MANAGER, who will quote you price for the original.
as
«>/
&
rs
m
*2r
K
f-r
Vu\
4?
Cjv
©
cc*
U , J ) *£ j
Radio for all
the family...
Write to Harringtons at
their Head Office or any
of these branches for full
FREE advice on Radio
Sets and details of how
easy Harringtons have
made radio buying.
IvATOOMBA:
Katoomba Street.
NEWCASTLE:
84-86 Hunter Street.
MELBOURNE:
266 Collins Street
BRISBANE:
93 Queen Street
ADELAIDE:
10 Rundle Street
WELLINGTON
(N.Z.) :
40-42 Willis Street
AUCKLAND
(N.Z.) :
140 Queen Street.
Now easily secured
As easy to operate as just turning a dial, as full of tone
as the voices of the artists at the broadcasting station;
rich in volume, delicate in selectivity and lov£ in cost —
that’s Harringtons “Popular” Radio —all you desire, even
from a set costing twice as much, or more.
Popular” Sets from
£2/101-
Deposit
“Popular” prices for cash are:
3-Valve set, £22; 4-Valve ser,
£27/10/-; 5-Valve set, £4O. Each
may be secured on easy terms;
deposit from £2/10/-
386 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY
(Head Office, Radio and Photo Warehouses).
TRADE MARK
\AS FINE AS FINE CHINA CAN BE
7/A
rtSo*
O KELLEY Chira has
a Charm which
makes it a treasured
possession in the home,
both to-day and in years
to come. Its perfection
is due to the experienced
craftsmen who make it.
commencing as boys and
acquiring their skill from
their fathers.
This pattern is Versailles No. 1U26.
Obtainable from all high-class stores and pottery dealers.
If any difficulty, write for name of nearest stockist to out
wholesale representatives,
T.W HEATH & CO..
limited
232. Clarence St Sydney ZCommerceHouse. (Melbourne,
CHINA


Swallow* Am ell’s
SEEDED RAISINS
Stemmed, Cleaned and Seeded
ready for use.
Your Grocer Sells
SWALLOW & A SHELL’S
*
I ID NtT WtIUIT
mn
After all, hotel satisfaction is the first essential when you are
day. You must have, as nearly as possible, the same comfort
“ nce and service as you would obtain in your own home.
on holi-
conveni-
Kofcf Mndaot
BESS
ItllllM
u
iriiiii*
WfwUUIIII
Spring Street, Melbourne,
will give you the utmost satisfaction in these respects.
It is among beautiful gardens, and possesses a quiet
old-world charm, yet it is but a minute from all the
good city shops and theatres. It is the acme of
“homey” comfort, and your every want is anticipated
and supplied.
Minimum Tariff from 22/6 (in-
clusive) ; Room and Breakfast
from 15/-
Telegrams and Cables: “Telwinsor,”
. Melbourne.
Melbourne
Chatter
Buckley's
Elizabethan
Tea 'Rooms
R[?] C[?] 800[?] [?]
Buckley [?] Nunn [?]
[?]
For the youngsters the school bell is ring-
ing this week, which isn’t pleasant. Parents
with social hankerings don’t share the un-
pleasantness. They have the thrill of pros-
pective invitations to meet the Yorks.
There’s going to be something like civil war
over those coroneted gilt pasteboards, and the
shadow, though at present no bigger than
a man’s hand, is spreading daily. Not even
the League of Nations could settle the social
scraps brewing between the folk who know
that they have a title clear to be at close
quarters with Royalty and those who intend
to get there somehow.
The Lawn Tennis Association held an
extra-special hop at the Kooyong clubhouse
as a grand finale to the championships.
There was a riot of flowers, and a huge racquet
done in gaily-colored blooms dangled aloft.
The cactus-like blossoms known as “red-hot
pokers” made a glow amid palms and blue
and* white agapantlms in the fire-place, and
supper was set in a bower of pink blossoms.
Vera de Bavay, whose gown was of ombre
tonings, and Gwen Bedggood were respons-
ible for the decorations. Mrs. Gerald Patter-
son, whose frock had a patterning of foliage
traced upon soft apricot hue, was with her
husband, who * bore championship honors
thick upon him. The Bananaland visitor.
Mrs. Macaulay Turner, had a feather attach-
ment to her primula mauve frock. The Lc
Messurier maiden from S.A. jazzed in pink
chenille embossed raiment, and Sydney’s
Daphne Akhurst lighted up blue draperies
with crystal and gold. Sparkle of crystal
and pearls upon a groundwork of pink was
the choice of Tassy’s representative, Miss
Richardson. Mrs. R. Hone (S.A.) was well
in the front line, her amber frock bearing con-
trast of powder blue ribbons. Grace Slioll
of Westralia, came to the tripping in black
with a glimmer of jet. And of course the
local tennis fiends were there in shoals.
At the Women’s Automobile Club on a
recent afternoon, the teacups once more
risked chipping after a sanctuary in vaca-
tion. Mrs. Pohlmau, with osprey feathers
shedding their rays below a sappliire-blue
hat, and wearing a blue gown with gold and
rose-lined embroideries, helped Mrs. C.
Clack, who was draped in fawn georgette
and lace topped by black picture millinery,
to say “Pleased to see you again” to fellow-
autoists and others. Dorothy Polilman, who
has lately taken out a license to sell law,
wore a dash of powder-blue upon a lemon-
toned frock, with a hat to match. Mrs.
Howard Jolley, in becoming apple-green
millinery, raised her soprano voice in song,
and Cora O’Farrell and the club’s president.
Mrs. H. .T. Robertson, also warbled. Mrs.
Reg. Long and Miss Bickford took turns
as accompanist. The Louis Nelken couple,
Reg. Long, the W. B. Adamson lady, Mrs.
Stein and Mrs. Jim Angus put on war-paint
for the first pow-wow of the season.
The L. O. Menck couple laid many covers
at Menzies’. amid blue and pink blossoms, to
honor the departing Sellheims. The hostess
wore gold and crystal encrustation upon a
soft green gown, and Mrs. Selllieim said good-
bye in flowing draperies of ivory georgette
and lace. Hazel Menck looked nice in a
frock of rose pink. The host, Senator Pearce,
Colonel McFarlane and knight William Glas-
gow joined in praises of the guests. The
Nicholas Lockyers, the Norman Clappertons,
the Glasgow lauy, Mrs. Pearce and Colonel
Hurley q.nd his life-partner were there.
So many members of the executive of the
Alliance Francaise of Victoria appear to be
inoculated with the wanderlust microbe that
it was found necessary, though their presi-
dent, Mrs. Jimmy Dyer, is not saying good-
bye until April, to give her a remembrance
of her excellent stewardship this week.
Cockerton’s Cafe was the rendezvous of the
farewell gathering when the honored guest,
whose golden brown covering was topped by
black picture millinery, accepted a travelling
clock in blue enamel. The Acting Consul
for France, M. Bourguin, and Belgium’s
Consul, Rene Vanderkelen, testified to their
indebtedness to the generous and energetic
lady’s interest in the Alliance.
The P.L.C.’s Old Collegians’ Association
announces that the Rupert Brooke prize has
been awarded to Ballarat’s Edith Bishop
for an essay on “Migration.” Entries were
received from all over Australia and Maori-
land; the judging was done by Prof. Strong,
of Adelaide Uni., Prof. Boyce Gibson, of our
local “shop,” and Colonel Hurley, of the
Immigration Department. The prize is of
the value of £25, and is awarded every three
years.
Oamperdown’s annual polo matches
attracted many, and the pasturages around
echoed the sound of many house-parties and
accompanying frivols. Governor Somers
was one of the players and enjoyed the
shelter of the John Manifolds’ domicile. The
Chester Manifold couple, of Dismore, the
A. J. Blacks, and the J. V. Fairbairns, of
Mount Elephant, were amongst those who
demonstrated how hospitable Camperdown
can be.
The billy is being boiled in a regretful
sort of way of late —-everybody’s going away.
At Scott’s Hotel on Thursday, the Ladies’
Aid Association of the Homoeopathic Hos-
pital made a brew to wash down wishes of
a pleasant journey and safe return to three
energetic workers —the Brunton lady, Mrs.
W. Pulteney Mein, who has served as lion,
sec. for eight years, and Mrs. Don Swanson.
Each one of them was handed something
useful for the voyage, and there was a posy
for Mrs. S. J. Morell, Melbourne’s new
Mayoress, who is following in the footsteps
of her predecessor in matters philanthrophic.
The Housewives’ Association commandeered
Freda Bage for an hour or so to talk League
of Nations to them. There was a hot wind
and a general listlessness, and the Gleneross
lady, who was a vision in mushroom pink, put
the kettle on to boil, and everybody knew it
was there and felt they had a real interest
in life. Grace Evans sang “Poor Wandering
One.” It was true that the guest of the
afternoon had been on quite a long tour,
but it didn’t seem to be a subject for pity.
The Lyceum Club, the National Council
of Women and the Women’s National
League welcomed the returned delegate. This
week finds the traveller putting in a few
days in Sydney cn route for Brisbane and
the reopening of the University there.
A regular billow of over-seas pedagogues
thundered on to these shores last week —29
men and 7 women, all under engagement to
the Victorian Department of Education. The
Victorian Teachers’ Union bade them welcome
over coffee and music. Teaching and nursing
are professions which the rising generation
of flappers doesn’t hanker after, possibly
because pay in those lines was fixed on the
hypothesis that any young woman who didn’t
get married as soon as someone asked her
deserved all that might be coming to her.
The Heyington postman's burden has in-
creased enormously since James Dyer, pic-
tured here by Lafayette, put his signature
to a cliequo
for £lO,OOO as
nucleus for a
permanent
municipal or-
chestra for
Melbourne. So
many music-
lovers are
writing to
thank him that
the erstwhile
president o f
the Melbourne
Scots finds his
new greatness
almost embar-
rassing. The
gift is not
dedicated t o
any society or
existing orches-
tral body. It
is up to the
civic fathers to
provide an orchestra up to Dyer's specifica-
tions —and he specifies a very fine one —and
if they fail to do so the £lO,OOO will wait in
the bank until the village wakes up. The
Dyers have done a lot for music in Victoria,
and lots of advanced students are going to
miss the engagements which used to come
their w T ay at the innumerable musical gather-
ings at Heyington, and at the Assembly Hall
concerts engineered by Mrs. Dyer as Vic-
torian representative of the British Music
Association.
Williamstown race meetings are becoming
fashionable. A well-tailored throng of both
sexes went along to the last one. The little
touch of chill that lingers in the seaside
air gave a wintry flavor to the dressing, and fur
necklets and wraps were shown with discrimi-
nation. The Norman Falkiners, Mrs. Ben
Chaffey, the T. M. Burke couple, Mrs. A. V.
Kewney and Mrs. T. A. Tabart, among others,
gave the outsider among race-meetings the
cachet of their presence.
The Daw doubtless means well when it
prohibits the sale of alcohol at dance rendez-
vous, but surely open sale is preferable to
the dancers bringing their own supplies in
flasks, which seems to be the fashion these
days. At a select jazz resort here the other
evening, a mere boy and a girl were so drunk
that they couldn’t stand without support
—and they brought their own supplies. They
wouldn’t have stood a chance of being served
by any competent bar-man or -lady.
The Naldera is booked to carry off a whole
contingent of Western District Russells, bent
on a pleasure-hunt. A daughter and Sheila
Mclntyre go with Mrs. George Russell; and
Mrs. Jim, from Barunah, will take daughter
Una to meet her fianc6, John Tyrwhitt
Drake, at Colombo, where there is to be a
wedding. To speed these parting ones Mrs.
Eric Russell brought out the best china and
invited a swarm of friends to tea at the
Golf House, Barwon Heads, between games.
This is Elma Roach, a Melbourne girl who
has made herself a place in the artistic world
with licr craftsmanship in stained wood. Her
ware is known by its beautiful glaze. Candle-
sticks, boxes and the like decorated with
floral designs and shining like glass are
among her fancies. Just a month or two
ago she re-
turned from a
three years'
tour, chiefly on
the Continent,
and she has
added to her
repertoire de
signs in bas-
relief and a
fine French
enamel finish.
Though no w
known chiefly
for her stained
wood brie-il-
brac, of which
she is the origi-
nator lier e,
she is also a
painter, and
some of her
water - color
sketches of
scenes in Italy
were hung at the last art show of the year
at the Athenaeum Gallery. While in France
Elma had lessons at a famous arts and crafts
school in Paris. She intends to hold an
exhibition soon.
Aaron Danks, as a director of the Lon-
don and Lancashire Insurance Company,
collected all the heads and their wives at
his home to say “Ta-ta” to one-time general-
manager Arthur E. Wall, for seven years past
assistant manager in London, who has been
here for six months on business, along with
his wife and daughter Joy. Daughter Annie
played hostess, dressing the part in floral
raiment, topped by a cherry-red hat. Mrs.
Walls was in ivory georgette and lace with
a black satin hat, and her lass had a pink
rosebud-sprinkled frock, shaded by drooping
millinery.
There was a high-brow tea-party at the
Oriental when Professor R. Berry’s wife,
who is soon to sail for London, said good-
bye to friends, mainly of the Uni. circle. The
Masson lady, on behalf of friends present and
absent, passed over to the guest of honor
a black opal pendant. The Berrys have
booked berths in the Niagara.
Wedding ceremonies in college chapels are
fashionable nowadays. In fact, it is the
last touch of smartness to prevail upon one’s
Alma Mater to accommodate one’s marriage.
Judge Cussen’s fifth son, Allan, chose Newman
College chapel tor the handing-over of his
name and worldly goods to Madge Kennedy,
daughter of Dr. Kennedy, of Cobram. The
bride’s cousin, Dean Rooney, read the ser-
vice. _ Tucked shell pink georgette with a
crinoline hat constituted the bridal array,
and the bridegroom’s sister Alice attended
in a frock of delf blue flowered in pink and
a hat of harmonising tulle. Relatives and
friends railed round a board at Menzies’
afterwards.
Melbourne Grammar School chapel was
the scene of a set that never got beyond
“deuce” between two tennis experts—
Victoria Sholl, of Westralia. and
Bob Schlesinger, son of the late Dr. Schle-
singer and Mrs. Arthur Sprague, of Mel-
bourne. The champion from the West
entered the doubles in pink overlaid with
cream georgette, embroidery in blue and
gold thread, a hat of white satin and a floral
burden of water-lilies and hydrangea. After
the ceremony there was a gathering at the
Arthur Spragues’.
St. Peter's Church, Eastern Hill, spread
out the carpet of ceremony for the marriage
ot Alice Victoria, daughter of the J. H
Robinsons, of Ivanlioe, and Robert Edward,
son of the A. J. Anderson couple, of Murrum-
beena. The. bride met the occasion in a
mist of delphinium blue crepe georgette with
bands of blue encircling her white hat. Sister
Sylvia walked behind, habited in rose-silk
crepe and a vagabond felt hat worn at a
cute angle.
Dr. H. Talbot Hamilton’s pretty daughter
Barbara entered on the matrimonial venture
m London on January 8. Lieut. R. Eames,
son of Surgeon-Captain and Mrs. Eames,
stationed in Australia for some years, was
the bridegroom. The pair will feather a
nest m Pans.
Mrs. Blomfield-Brown’s younger son, Regi-
nald, has entered into the Happy State. The
deed was done late in December of last
year, and Margaret Virginia Dunn was the
American bride. Before the war young Regi-
nald was a great social favorite, both here
and in Geelong. After his years of service
in the Balkans he settled in America.
Phyllis, the second daughter of the Rev
and Mrs. Ward-Thomas, Marshaltown, Vic-
toria, has assented to the proposal of Robert
Knowles, Namerva, Queensland. The newly-
engaged young man is the third son of the
late Vice-Admiral Sir Charles Knowles.
Vivienne, the pretty eldest daughter of
Colonel Ivnox-Kniglit, who was bowled
over in France in 1918, and of
Mrs. Knox-Ivnight, who stands to-day in
Melbourne’s array of women journalists, is
displaying a diamond circlet. The prospect-
ive bridegroom is Douglas S. M. Faulkner,
whose broad acres are at Mt. Cotterell. It e
is youngest son of the late Dr. W. Cooke
Faulkner, of Sunbury. Doug's choice is very
popular among Melbourne’s younger set. She
demonstrated and taught the tango and fox-
trot at the Embassy under Jennie Rrenan
last year.
Solicitor W. F. Weigall and his life
partner, with their son Wilfrid and daughter
Elizabeth, set out by the Moldavia last week
for a Continental jaunt. The good-looking
‘Lizabeth was somewhat wistful, for she left
behind an almost brand-new fiance, Dr.
Donaldson, superintendent of the Austin
Hospital at Heidelberg, whose mother lives
in Bananaland’s capital.
St. Vincent’s Hospital funds benefited con-
siderably during the last 18 months by a
series of dances held at regular intervals in
the institution’s Brenan Hall. James Whelan
and James O’Neill, who looked after the
business end, have again taken the helm, and
announce that the first of the second edition of
these hops will be staged at the same address
on March 1. Five shillings will purchase
a ticket for a good night’s enjoyment, and
help also to ease someone’s pain.
Repertory Theatre players are losing for
a year or so a performer of much talent,
Ruby May, who is off to England. She is
the wife of Mr. Gill, of Gollin and Co., anjl
will accompany her husband on a business
trip. She will make her last appearance
here, with her Repertory associates, in
Shaw’s “Androcles and the Lion,” anil
Anatole France’s play “The Man Who
Married a Dumb Wife,” which is the first
experiment under the Tait auspices.
Sister Adelaide’s jottings :
E. J. Carroll sent “The Best People” along to the
Theatre Royal last week. Adelaide liked them,
and they settled down to solid houses. Beatrice Day
(Mrs. Lenox), with the figure of youth and the
merit of long experience, stepped back to her niche
in public esteem.
Marianne Fisher, 100 (not out) on February 5,
last surviving relic of the Buffalo passenger list
that included most names intimately associated
with the making of South Australia, is 10 years
older than the State of which her late father
was a founder and leading panjandrum. At her
centenary celebration 71 roots and branches of the
family tree foregathered, including Fishers, Mor-
phetts, Ayers, Howard Lloyds, Mairs, Hargraves,
Wilkinsons and Irwins. The crowd filled the family
manor at Morphettville, built according to old-
English sample by John Morphett, and now in-
habited by grandson George. The old place is a
museum of Morphett and Fisher family relics, in-
cluding a perfect model of the good ship Buffalo,
made from wood of the original.
Clare has forsworn its usual Polo Week this
year, lest the more serious business of Australasian
Cup matches be interfered with; but an Adelaide
team used the holiday to sally northwards and try
conclusions with both Clare and Mid-North, thereby
getting some good polo (with an interlude of firf-
fighting), a cheerful week-end, a dinner and a tea
or two. Another team went southwards to Strath-
albyn, where Lancelot Stirling, most hospitable of
men, presided over the dinner, and Monday was
devoted to a gymkhana at which the Tucker family
annexed about 70 per cent, of the prizes.
At the races the Government House party included
Lady Stonehaven (here on a private visit), who
topped a cool pink frock with a wide-brimmed hat;
the Governor and Lady Bridges (she smart in figured
georgette of black and white) and their daughter,
with the Armstrongs and Mi-. Legh Winser. ’Twas
a warmish day, the thermometer mounting to poise
for a downward plunge that has set us shivering
since, and the lawns were giddy with vivid colors,
with a black coat here and there to make fof
contrast and relief. Such of society as wasn’t
racing or immured in the hills or at the sea, went
to the Oval, where an old scholars’ cricket match
between St. Peter’s and Prince Alfred’s left the
latter winners.
That is the sum of our distractions, save for a
vice-regal night at the theatre for “The Best
People,” the Stapleton-Limbert wedding at Glen
Osmond, and a private Palais party or two, includ-
ing one hostessed by Mrs. Warden. For the rest, we
ar e devoting ourselves to preparations for the Ducal
visit, and especially to protests at the non-appearance
of the Renown. She berthed here once, so why not
again ? Anyway, the citizens’ committee is speak-
ing its mind to the Admiralty; so we’ll see.
Ethel Hantke, once well known in musical Adel-
aide, has been singing in London, with Peter
Dawson and Daisy Kennedy on the same platform;
and Roy Mellish writes that his wife (Clara Serena)
has had excellent concerts in Berlin, Paris and
\ ienna. Indeed, Berlin found hers the best concert,
from a singer, it had had for three or four years.


m
10
6
m
A. Saunders’
Grandfather
“CHIME”
CLOCKS
MISSION OAK CASES.
Solid Brass Movements, Silvered
Dials, Bevelled Plateglass Doors,
Three - quarter “Westminster”
Chimes, “Litchfield” Strike at the
Hours—
£l7/10/-, £2O, £25, £3O.
Inlaid Mahogany Case, £37/10/-
Full “Westminster” Chimes—
£3s, £45, £5O.
With “Whittington” and “West-
minster” Combination Chimes,
Handsomely Designed Carved
Oak Cases, Massive Burnished
Brass Weights and Pendulum—
£ss, £65, £75.
MANTEL CHIMING CLOCKS.
Solid Oak Case, Three-quarter
“Westminster” Chimes, £B/10/-.
Full “Westminster,” £l2/10/-
Mahogany Case, Three-quarter
“Westminster” Chimes—
£B/10/-, £lO/10/-
Full “Westminster,” £l5.
call and see the largest
DISPLAY OF CLOCKS IN
AUSTRALASIA.
A. SAUNDERS
JEWELLER,
805-813 GEORGE STREET
(Opp. Railway Station),
SYDNEY.
Reduced Prices of
“Warrego” Shirts
Peapes* Special Productions
for all outdoor tuorkers.
L-j
{s VUBSSi;///,
Sf »
** Warrego ** Shirts arc
made of specially woven
English materials, which
wash easily and well,
although most of them
are in colours which do
not readily soil.
Liberal proportions, tu»o ca-
pacious pockets with button-
doum flaps, collars which
fasten down at peaks, and
cuffs with a single button,
are points which ensure com-
fort and convenience.
Having contracted for new
large supplies of materials,
Peapes have gained an ad-
vantage in price, which, ac-
cording to their usual policy
they pass on to clients in
these new reduced prices.
FB6l—"The Warrego.” Blue, Grey or Faum, close-set pinhead
squares .. .. .. .. 10/6 —now 9/6
FB62—The “Tropo Warrego.” Tropical weight, strong-wearing
Khafei Drill ... .. •• 10/6 —now 9/6
FB63—The “Khaki Warrego.” Khaki Gabidrille, very soft and
comfortable, medium heavy-weight, 12/6 — now 11/6
; FB64 —The “Oxford Warrego.” Made of Oxford Shirting in six
designs, plain shades of Blue or Fawn, White stripes
on Blue or Fawn, narrow close-set stripes in Blue or
Black on White ... ... ••• ••• ••• 12/6
Peapes* “Warrego” Shirts can be made to measure of Cambridge
Twill, in Blue or Fawn, incorporating any special individual
requirements, at 14/6 each.
PEAPES PAY POSTAGE
Please state size of collar usually worn.
PEAPES & CO., LTD.
Men’s and Boys* Outfitters
GEORGE ST. (opp. Hunter St.) SYDNEY
TO EUROPE IN 1927!
MAKE YOUR TRAVEL ARRANGEMENTS WITH
THOS. COOK & SON
Railway, Steamship and Tourist Agents,
ESTABLISHED 1841 165 BRANCHES.
PASSAGES
TRAVELLERS*
CHEQUES
INCLUSIVE
INDEPENDENT
TRAVEL
Booked by All Lines at Tariff Rates.
Monthly Sailing List Issued Post Free.
Issued in Sterling and Dollars, in Notes
of £5, £ 1 0, £2O and $ 1 0, $2O, $5O, $ 1 00.
Tours arranged, including Hotel, Sightsee-
ing and Excursions. Any Route. Class of
Hotel and Travel optional. Itineraries
Prepared.
INCLUSIVE TOUR IN EUROPE 50 Days for £BO
Pleasure Cruises to the Norwegian Fjords.
Motor-coach Tours in Great Britain.
ESCORTED TOURS IN EUROPE,
Visiting
ITALY - - SWITZERLAND - - FRANCE - - BATTLEFIELDS
BELGIUM - - HOLLAND - - and GREAT BRITAIN.
Fares include
Travel, Hotel, Meals while Travelling, Transfers between Stations
and Hotels, Sightseeing, Excursions, Gratuities, Fees, Guides and
Experienced Conductor.
Automobile Tour de Luxe from NAPLES .... 49 days, £396
Select First-class Tours from MARSEILLES .... 71 days, £302
Select First-class Tours from NAPLES 66 days, £283
Popular Escorted Tours from MARSEILLES ... 53 days, £179
Popular Escorted Tours from NAPLES 48 days, £166
Moderate Escorted Tours from LONDON 46 days, £124
DETAILED PROGRAMMES ON APPLICATION.
Monthly “TRAVELLER’S GAZETTE” Post Free.
THOS. COOK & SON
MELBOURNE:
269 Collins Street.
SYDNEY:
Martin Place,
(Opp. G.P.0.).
ADELAIDE:
49a Grenfell Street.
AUCKLAND:
N.Z. Insurance Building,
Queen Street.
WELLINGTON:
Government Life Building
(Next G.P.0.).
UNDERWOOD
Portable Typewriter
u More Work, Better Work,
j . r i hp* i **
That’s the unanimous verdict of Underwood Portable
users in every sphere of life. Writing with the
Underwood is a pleasure! No effort, no drudgery,
The light, springy keys set your thoughts on paper
smoothly, quickly, neatly. Pages of clean, attractive
typewriting fall from the machine with rapid ease,
leaving you with extra hours for leisure and recreation.
Mail the coupon to our nearest
branch for full particulars, in-
cluding price . No obligation.
Stott & Underwood Ltd.
9-11 O’Connell Street, Sydney.
The Underwood Typewriter Agency,
91-93 William Street, Melbourne.
Post to G.P.0. Box 1556E Sydney, or 91 William Street, Melbourne.
l\l like full details about the
Underwood Portable, without
obligation, of course.
NAME
ADDRESS
Hr i, lutin' 10/2/’27.


NOT MADE DOWN TO A PRICE
It is NOT POSSIBLE to produce a
more VALUABLE Tennis Ball.
Every BARNET, GLASS TENNIS BALL Stitchetj.
and Stitchless All Court is Manufactured in
accordance with the
Compression Standard
as well as every other standard
' of the International Lawn
Tennis Federation. ,
n
L
if
*
a
NEW REDUCED PRICES
folder Top Shaving Stick,
2/-
P.eloads . . .. 1/6
Shaving Cream .. 2/-
Also manufacturers of the
celebrated Williams. Shav-
ing Cream in the tube 1 with
the unlosable cap.
im
0
Two things you want —
This shaving stick has both
Williams Holder Top Shaving Stick has two distinct
features: First, it gives you the famous Williams
lather; and, second, a holder in which the soap itself
cannot work loose.
Williams lather absorbs an extraordinary amount of
moisture. It works up rich, fast and bulky—perme-
ates and softens the beard so that the razor just
glides through it.
The stick can’t slip in the Williams Holder Top. A
threaded metal ring surrounds the soap itself and
screws fast into the metal top. When it’s time for
a reload (and these save money) you take out the
old wafer of soap easily and cleanly and place it on
top of the fresh reload. Buy a stick to-day and
brighten to-morrow’s shave
Williams
Holder Top Shaving Stick
Distributors: FRAZER & REST, LIMITED,
Brisbane, Sydney, Melbourne , Adelaide, Perth.
a
f JL'
V
m
This
751- Suit
for
59's
Murdoch’s
RED SPOT SALE
Special!
TOCKS must be cleared to make room for the builders,
and this select group of distinguished Ready-for-
Service Suits must go at a sacrifice! Every Suit is
made from genuine pure Wool Lightweight Australian
Tweeds, featuring smart, fashionable shades of Grey.
Range of sizes is complete, so that perfect fitting for
every figure is assured. Coat, Vest and Trousers,
ready for immediate service—
Usually 75/-
Red Spot Price
59/9
Please state height, waist, chest and
inside leg measure, also weight.
Sale Ends 19th February
FINAL BARGAINS.
Usually.
6/6
7/6
4/6
21/-
Red Spot Price.
Men s White Twill Mercerised Tennis
Shirts. Turnover collar
Men’s Strong-wearing English Zephyr
Golf Shirts. No collar
Men s Flannelette Pyjamas, good wear-
ing quality, stripe designs
Men’s Artificial Silk Socks, in a variety
of shades
Men’s Nigger Brown Calf Officers’
Derby Boots, no toecap
4/9
4/8
4/11
2/6
15/11
Thousands of others. Order now for the months ahead
and save money!
POSTAGE PAID TO YOUR DOOR.
When writing kindly address your letter to Desk R.
MURDOCH’S
111 Park ST V£ Sydney
7Ae Worlds Largest Men’s t Boi's'


EVER-READY
A Better Dry Battery
the EVER-READY
The best for wireless
purposes or general
utility bells, tele-
phones, bur glar alarms,
medical coils, etc.
'Tf'/nt
Agents everywhere
Write for Illustrated Catalogue
THE EVER-READY CO.
(Gt. Britain) Ltd.
163 Pitt Street, Sydney
Don't wish for the Best—get it
RESCH’S
LAGER, DINNER ALE,
PILSENER & STOUT.
RESCH’S BITTER ALE.
AUSTRALIA’S BEST BITTER.
Western Australian Distributors:
BURNS, PHILP & CO., LTD., PERTH AND CERALDTON.
HARVEY’S “SPECIAL” Whisky
AN OLD “SPOT” MELLOWED BY AGE.
Sole Agents: RESCH’S, LTD., Redfern, Sydney. [c
15hQ
W. W. GREENER
“EMPIRE”
Hammerless Gun
Obtainable from all Retailers.
Price £2l.
Wholesale Representatives:
W. P. THOMPSON 8 CO. PTY., LTD.
405-7 Lonsdale Street,
Melbourne.
SPORTING
NOTIONS
Heroic and Naos lias been a favorite New-
market Handicap-Australian Cup double > ever since
the weights came out, and after the racing at
Williamstown on Saturday it was at a sinfully
rffitricted price. Heroic (7 to 1 on) had only
Metellus. Spearfelt and Bard of Avon to beat in
the C. F. Orr Stakes, one mile, and nore of the
three proved capable of making him get up a
sweat; Metellus (7 to 1 against) was a bad second,
and Bard of Avon (50 to 1) cut the fast-finishing
Spearfelt (20 to 1) out of third place. Spearfelt
had the same weight (9st. 111 b.) as Kellow’s
chestnut; Bard of Avon was in receipt of 111 b. and
Metellus of 131 b. The time was a mere lmin.
lljsec., but Cairns had no incentive to make it
aster. Heroic’s task in the Newmarket has been
lightened by the withdrawal of Persuasion, Grecian
Orator, Bairn and other speedy ones. All the same,
it would lie folly to take the present price about
a horse which has had to be withdrawn from several
big handicaps, even though he may seem to have a
mortgage on the event
Naos, who raced in the colors of F. H. Scarlett,
was not fancied for the Wyndham Handicap,
though he had Dempsey aboard; the distance, 11
furlongs, was thought to be too short for him, and
there was also an impression that he was not up
to the weight, Bst. 71h. So 12 to 1 was offered
vainly, while backers took 5 to 4 Smoke Bomb, 7
to '2 Itaith and 6 to 1 Cyanate. To the surprise
of the crowd, Dempsey took the little bay to the
front and kept him there ; Reputed King (8 to 1 ) had
a go at him in the straight, but, finishing very
gamely (both did, in fact), Naos won by a head;
the favorite was a length or so behind Reputed King.
The watch showed 2min. 24sec. It will be some time
before Naos figures at 12 to 1 again. He should
run a great race in the Australian Cup (Dempsey
is to have the mount again) with 7st. 111 b.
Adjong (Costello —Adjee) did a good Oakleigh
Plate trial in the Marine Handicap, for which there
were 20 starters. Favorite at 9 to 2, C. W.
ll’heeler’s mare won handily from Solus (7 to 1)
tnd Waranton (8 to 1), who finished sturdily under
his big weight, lOst. 91b. Adjong is in the Plate
with 7st. 101 b., 31b. less than on Saturday, and
she or Greenie (7st. 111 b.) seems more likely to
succeed than Calmest (Bst. 121 b.), who, though
well in the market, has done a fearful amount of
racing for a three-year-old filly. Except for a short
spell in November, she has been at it since the
winter. Fourth in Adjong’s race—a good fourth,
too—was Windbag’s three-year-old brother, Bicolor.
He is in the Newmarket and the Australian Cup
with 7st. 61b.
* # * *
A Sydney horse that may be worth follow-
ing is Octember (October —Elizabeth Bentley).
Rather unlucky in previous races, he outstayed a
typical February field in the Canterbury Handicap,
11 furlongs, at Canterbury Park on Saturday, and
his party collected some substantial wagers at 3 to 1
and 5 to 2. His sire was the U.S.-bred progenitor
of Bitalli, who could stay for a week. Father’s
Voice (5 to 4) cantered in with the Flying Handi-
cap—his first success since the V.A.T.C. Futurity
Stakes two years ago —and another race, the Campsie
Handicap, went to Woodville (3 to 1), with whom
T. C. Trautwein has done pretty well. It is getting
on for six years since Woodville placed the Hawkes-
Liry Guineas on the credit side of his account with
Trautwein. There was a smash in one of the
sprints, for which there were 20 starters, and two
jockeys—Adams and Brown —had to be taken to
hospital. People are getting uneasy about these
accidents on proprietary courses.
* * * *
“Centurion” : If the proposed N.S.W. legis-
lation to make betting and gambling contracts
valid goes on the statute book, some interesting
situations may crop up. Say a big “nod” punter
domiciled in Victoria “takes the knock” at Rand-
iviek. He can’t be sued in Victoria, even if his
creditor lias a Victorian branch, for there a gaming
contract is void, as it is at present throughout the
Empire and in most other parts of the earth. If
the creditor gets a verdict in N.S.W. he will have
a job recovering his debt, unless his debtor has
property in the Ma State, or unless he gets a judg-
ment summons and takes it out of the defaulter’s
Person, provided the latter is mug enough to re-enter
N.S.W. Outside the borders of that State, no
Process of recovery can issue, or be executed, for it
"ill be based on illegality as far as other States
are concerned.
* * * *
“S.W.H.” : In N. S. Wales, as in Belgium,
Pigeon-racing has reached the stage where there is
tnoney in the game. Every town of any size in the
Ma State now has its homing club—there are 35
in Sydney alone—and the N.S.W. Racing Pigeon
Club put up £437-odd for its Derby race from
Bourke. T. A. Booth, of Randwick, collected £3OO
of it for first, second, seventh and ninth places.
Next year it is hoped to have well over £5OO on
the prize-list for this event, which bids fair to rival
the Belgian Grand National.
* * * *
Sydney saw something new in the way of
boxing decisions at the Stadium on Saturday night
when Frenchman Laffineur (list. 21b.), having been
floored by “Tiger” Payne (list. 61b.) with a right
swing to the middle of the back, was declared
the winner on a foul. It is probably the first time
in ring history that a man has been knocked out
by a blow on the spine and the striker disqualified
for doing it. Payne began very tamely-—for him
—and Laffineur took the first round by what few
—very few —points were scored. The negro woke
up and won the second. In the third a rain of
blows ended in the Gaul taking eight seconds on
the mat; all the same, he won the round. Ivan
scored the fourth also, by means of a sustained
attack that upset the Tiger’s intentions as fast as
they were formed. Payne went mad in the fifth,
and out of a terrific rally Ivan sank to the canvas
for nine. To the general surprise he sprang up,
and was doing quite as well as the infuriated coon
at the gong. Laffineur’s double swings and a great
right drive to the mark troubled “Tiger” in the
sixth, but the negro had revenge; a short right to
the chin put Laffineur down again, and “out,” it
seemed. But the bell rang at five and he was
carried to his corner. Laffineur, a bulldog for
courage, came up for the seventh, and, after
taking a couple of stiff jabs to the face, swung
a hard left to the coon’s ear. He tried, with every
ounce of his weight and power, to repeat it.
“Tiger” side-stepped, and swung a fearful right,
which landed just below the shoulder blades. The
Frenchman’s arms went up and out, and he pitched
on his face with as much force as if he’d been
blown there by an explosion of t.n.t. As he lay
inert, referee Wallis placed a hand on his head;
and a cardboard placard was produced bearing the
words “Won on a foul.”
•X * * *
Pedro Campo (9st. proved himself
a very rugged Filipino in his bout with Bert Mc-
Carthy (9st. 1211 b.) at the Melbourne Stadium.
Weaving in at once, Pedro almost finished the busi-
ness in the first round; a double to the body snapped
NOT UR ED TO RIDING BAREBACK.
BACKBLOCKS: “Why didn't you tell me I oughter bring me saddle?”
the white boy’s wind, and he was rocky when
the gong intervened. In several succeeding rounds
Bert gave the brown a boxing lesson, hut though
he punched hard and often Campo kept coming in
for more. In the ninth round Bert took another
long count, and he gradually weakened, though
continuing to have the better of it on points. He
was twice dropped in the seventeenth, and, coming
up groggy for the next round, was battered to the
floor again, whereupon the referee exercised his
authority. Campo is one of the toughest of a
tough breed. » * *
The ghoulish element of sport at Maroubra
(N.S.W.) speedway was again in evidence on Satur-
day night, when F. W. Barlow crashed to his doom
in one of the heats of the only car race on the
programme. The final went to Hope Bartlett in
a* “Bug,” with O’Rourke’s sister car second. The
concrete track championship of the State, an event
for small motor-cycles, was won fairly easily by
Eddie Brinck, the American Harley rider. Brinck
was booed for crowding Carmodv, who ran second,
but the demonstration wasn’t justified; Brinck is a
good sportsman, and Carmody made it clear after-
wards that if there was any fault in the business
it was his. Cecil Brown, the other American visitor,
who had things pretty well his own way till he
induced Brinck to come here, won an all-powers two-
wheeler race on his big Indian.
Maroubra has a ghastly record ; five fatal accidents
in a little over 13 months, and there have been long
gaps between meetings at times. Poor Barlow, thougli
he had driven a “Bug” at Maroubra before, hadn’t
had much experience of night racing, and in addition
he was in an unfamiliar car—Don Harkness’s Over-
land. The tragedy was a long-drawn-out affair in
which the driver made frantic attempts to keep the
car on the track, but it tore off at last and was
stopped by the brake that usually officiates on such
occasions—an electric-light pole. A fractured thigh
and a snapped spine left Barlow, who was only 27,
no hope of recovery, and he died in hospital a few
hours later. Four of Maroubra’s five victims were car-
drivers —Salmon, Vaughan, Garlick and Barlow —
and only one- —Dutton —was a motor-cyclist. If
Chief-Sec. Lazzarini permits any more night car
racing on the present track he will deserve to be
in the next smash himself.
* * * *
The remaining Australian swimming
championships were decided at Hobart last week.
The consistent E. W. Jones scored again for Westralia
in the 440yds., registering the excellent time of
smin. 2o 2-ssec.; Grier (Queensland) was just on
ssee. slower and Moore (N.S.W.) third. F. Cross
(N.S.W.) won the junior 100yds. in lmin. 1 l-ssec.
In a great race for the 220yds. title, Grier beat
Moore by a touch, with Jones two yards away; the
times were 2inin. 26 2-5 sec., 2min. 26 3-5 sec. and
2min. 28 4-ssec. respectively. N. S. Wales (four
firsts) retained the Kieran Shield, with Westralia
(three firsts) next.
* * * *
“Ratty Robbo”: These controversies as to
the amateur status have driven more than the writer
to his present, address. The N.S.W. Swimming
Association has supplied the latest contribution to
the mad tangle. It voted Les Duff, its hon. sec., a
present of £lOO for his secretarial ardor and effi-
ciency. Duff well deserves it, and more, for his
great organising work —and he remains an amateur.
Vet a few weeks ago the same association solemnly
declared Dick Eve, the Olympic champion diver, a
professional because Dick took a job as manager of
a public swimming bath. The lad has never received
a penny in connection with swimming, not even in
the form of an honorarium. Save as boss of a big-
public bath, he probably never -will. I feel inclined
to ask the Swimming Association to join me in
residence. It seems the fittest place for it.
* * * *
At time of writing it looks as if Queens-
land, by walloping Victoria, will enable S. Aus. to
win the Sheffield Shield for the first time since
1912-13. Nobody will begrudge the Wheat Staters
their victory, for they have played the game'st up-
hill cricket against tremendous odds and never
slackened in their keenness for more than a dozen
years. None the less, the result is rather farcical,
however mathematically accurate. Few would give
the Croweaters’ present team much or any chance
against the full strength of N.S.W.—if such had
ever been available this year—and while the former
won the first match* against Vic. by a very
narrow margin, they were altogether outplayed in
the return at Melbourne. The trouble is that, with
no international games or trip to England in prospect,
prominent players are beginning to claim the
right to please themselves whether they turn out
for their States or not, and have enforced the right
more than ever before in the season that is just
ending, especially in Sydney and Melbourne, despite
some attempt to discipline lukewarm or cantanker-
ous Australian XI celebrities in the latter city. It
is a thousand pities, and the authorities are fools
to submit to it. Lord Hawke recently warned
the English countries against making a “fetich” of
Test matches. Such a warning is far more needed
in Australia, where the Sheffield Shield competition
is receding further and further into the background
in the matter of keen rivalry and public interest.
Queensland won the toss at Brisbane against
Victoria (minus Woodfull and Ryder) and dug in
the whole of Saturday, losing only 4 wickets for
201 runs. The foremost scorers were Ronnie Oxen-
liarn (104) and O’Connor (72). The total was
raised to 399 on Monday, Thompson (65), L. Oxen-
ham (42) and Knowles (40). Of the seven bowlers
tried, Morton took 4 wickets for 130, Blackie 8
for 84 and Mullett 3 for 68. The visitors, going
to the wickets, were all rattled out in a little over
two hours for a paltry 86, Millar being top scorer
with 36 and only two others reaching double
figures. Mayes (3 for 21), Hornibrook (2 for 28)
and Ron Oxenliam (4 for 18) did most of the
damage; they were backed by some excellent field-
ing, the last two bowlers earning additional kudos
for fine catches in the slips. With a first innings
lead of 313, skipper O’Connor decided to bat
again, and on Tuesday Queensland was in the
proud position of being nearly 500 ahead with
6 wickets in hand.
* * * *
“Tenth Slip”: The news that Australia’s
old cricket friend Patsy Hendren has been engaged as
coach to the South Aus. Association has roused
feeling among some of our amateur cricketers who
would have liked the job themselves. There is a
lot to be said for preference to Australians in these
matters, but one objection to the Hendren engage-
ment, given in an interview by an “ex-internationai,”
is funny without being to the point. He fears that
Patsy may introduce the safety-first methods of
English professionals, and so “stem the freedom of
stroke production” for which the present genera-
tion of Australian batsmen is renowned. Patsy has
earned the reputation of being a fast mover in
games which must be won or lost in three days. It
would be a pity if his teachings subverted the
hurricane style, evolved from five- and six-day
matches, which Charles Kelleway, Bert Collins, Edgar
Mayne, Woodfull and Schneider have made so deser-
vedly popular.
* * * *
After many lean years the N.S.W. Rugby
Union again finds itself with a decent bank balance.
This stands at £4106, and would have been bigger
but for the payment of indebtedness to the M.L.
Union. Last year’s income from club games was
over £2OOO, which, considering that the professional
League has control of the principal grounds in
Sydney, indicates that public support is coming
back to the amateur game.
* * * *
“Past Grammar” : Rugby League football
in Queensland is going the way of all professional
sport in which the money is easy and good. Two
of the three chief centres of the game, Toowoomba
and Brisbane, have withdrawn from the State
League and formed a combination of their own.
The rebel districts have contributed largely to
the success of recent Queensland League teams, and
think they should receive a few more quids for
their “pros.” The big Northern Coast towns,
Rockhampton, Townsville and Cairns, are also of
some importance in the scheme of things, and the
rival organisations are straining every nerve to gain
or retain their support. N.S.W. Leaguers are
anxiously watching the outcome, for the inter-State
games with Queensland are their only special
feature for ordinary seasons, and weakened teams
from the North will mean meagre gates, an agonis-
ing prospect.
* * * *
“The Tout”: The recent decision of the
English Northern Union to waive the two-vears’
residence qualification in favor of overseas Rugby
Union players only was probably influenced, to some
extent, by the approaching visit of a N.S.W. Union
team. At all events, it louses memories of the way
in which the last R.U. side to visit England was
nobbled on its return to Australia by the professional
Rugby League, and possibly the British professional
body anticipates reaping benefits of the sort in the
case' of the 1927 lot. The circumstances of the
almost wholesale purchase of the Wallabies by the
N.S.W. League is a curious chapter of sporting history.
The League was too hard up to do the business itself,
but the transaction was suggested, and the money
lent, by one of Sydney’s noblest citizens, whose bread
came back to him a hundredfold. The full list of
prices paid for the mob is in the possession of one
of the players who spurned the lure of gold, and his
account of the negotiations reads like the evidence
before a Royal Commission on a City Council comedy.
The story is not likely to be repeated, though. The
rise of the League in N.S.W. has practically con-
fined the Union game to a section of the community
to which professionalism in footer does not appeal.
■***•*
“Hamer”: Jackson had gone crazy about
golf, and when he visited an old friend in Mel-
bourne, whose hobbies are wireless and chess, he
was voted rather trying. Hoping to get the guest
away from his golf obsession, the host took him for
a motor spin into the Dandenongs. He was a
disgusted host when, instead of looking at the
scenery, the passenger talked nothing except his
favorite topic and, having exhausted it and himself,
fell asleep. But when a fine patch near Healesville
was reached, the Melbourne man decided to make a
last effort, and, waking Jackson up, implored him
to have a look at the view. The sleeper woke,
looked, and then stared, obviously impressed. “My
word, yes!” he said. “It’d make a grand golf
course, wouldn’t it?”
* » * *
“Centurion”: Suzanne Lenglen, idol of
millions, is realising that there is one in whose
sight even she is but as a crushed worm —the income-
tax collector. In an unguarded moment Suzanne
confided to an American reporter that her professional
tour of Ooolidge’s country had brought her in 100,000
dahlers. The U.S. Treasury chipped in with the
remark that the young woman would have to sever
herself from 10,000 dahlers before quitting Columbia.
Then it was intimated that the French Government
would be waiting at the other end to collect its
cut —estimated at 40,000 dahlers. What Suzanne
said is not certain, for the cabled account closed
with suspicious abruptness.
BAD INFORMASH.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
1 tell you straights, boss, da game’s no good ;
Da urger blokes dey driva me to drink.
Da moii I make from feesh and steaka pud
All go on backing horses —strika pink;
Da diamonds I vear are imitash —
I do my dough on dead crook informash.
Da urger blokes dey vink at me and say:
“Sylvest, you gooda bloke, you trusta me
I give you all da oil for every day,
Nex’ veek I tip some vinners—two or Free” ;
But, strika fat, I’m lost for conversash,
When 1 find out dey give crook informash.
I vorka hard to cook da steak an’ oyst,
And serve da customer vit’ mull and bream ;
But all da mon I make gets on da hoist —
By Gar, I tell you straight, vit’ rage I serream.
Da biz go hung. I vant da p’lissa stash
To pinch da blokes dat give crook informash.
x.s.w.
CURRIED LOBEST.


'Tf\r
m
miz-r£
,11-j* 1 **■—■•
w
\ v
' :\
if
m
&
v
m
•-kU
1
m
" •Hij-jii “ *«*n\
•• *" —•*
1 ,iu ‘ *** ■
i'..V > > •>
;, n
1
w
W
m' l«*
I sf Itili
'/!■
f ;j
#
liJ
&
m
r; •
vS
SA
m
ff.
mi
~z!a^
r
j,
&
S*i»
Pure
SHELL
Look for the Pure
Shell Disc. It is
our guarantee
and your protection.
The Call of the
Out of Doors
J__|OW quickly and comfortably the car takes
you to the open spaces. That easy, confident
rhythm which comes from power well founded and
perfectly directed is one of the greatest factors
in motoring pleasure. Be good to your engine
use Pure Shell Motor Spirit and Shell Motor Oils.
Go where you will ,
Shell service awaits you .
M
Motor Spirit
& Motor Oils
THE BRITISH IMPERIAL OIL CO. LTD,
THROUGHOUT AUSTRALIA AND NEW ZEALAND
S 194
THE CHEAPEST HOUSE
IN ENGLAND FOR
OFFICE FURNITURE
Specialising in Roll Top and
Pedestal Desks, Filing
Cabinets, Office Chairs and
everything for the perfectly-
equipped office, at prices
which are positively the
lowest in England.
SAVE TIME!
Send your indent direct to:—
The OXFORD CABINET Co.
146 Charing Cross Road,
London, W.C. 2, England.
Legal Notices.
SAORSTAT EIREANN.
PURSUANT to an Order of the High Court of
Justice made in the Matter of the Estate of JOSEPH
THOMAS SUTTON late of Marina House Wicklow
in the County of Wicklow Gentleman deceased and
in a Cause Hatpin v. Sutton (1926 No. 4466) all
persons claiming to be next of kin of the said Joseph
Thomas Sutton living at the date of his death on
the 30th October 1925 or to be the legal personal
representatives of such of the said next of kin as
have since died and especially his brother William
Henry Sutton his brother George Alfred Sutton and
his sister Ellen Jane Warren formerly Sutton or
their children if they be dead are by their Solicitors
on or before the 20tfi April 1927 to enter their
claims at the Central Office Law Courts Dublin and
they are to prove their claims by the same day or
they will be peremptorily excluded from the benefit
of the said Order. Friday the 22nd April 1927 at the
Examiner’s Office Law Courts Dublin is appointed
for hearing and adjudicating on the claims. Dated
the 16th day of December 1926. THOS. W.
ELLERKER, Examiner. P. J. O’Flaherty and Son,
Solicitors, 22 Nassau Street, Dublin.
[N THE SUPREME COURT OF TASMANIA.
Matrimonial Causes Jurisdiction.
TO ROBERT TAMA WATT formerly of Hobart in
Tasmania but now of Sydney in the State of New
South Wales.
WHEREAS a Citation has issued out of this Court
citing you to appear and answer the Petition of
Grace Edith Watt for dissolution of her marriage
with you on the grounds of desertion TAKE NOTICE
that unless within Twenty-one days from the publi-
cation hereof you cause an Appearance to be entered
in the said Court to answer the said Petition the
Court will proceed to hear the said charge proved
and pronounce judgment your absence notwith-
standing.
Dated this Thirty-first day of January One thousand
nine hundred and twenty-seven.
(S’g’d) 0. S. SIMMONS,
Clerk of the Court.
A. B. k C. Crisp, Gill & Harvey, 144 Collins
Street, Hobart, Tasmania, Proctors for the Petitioner.
Visitors to Brisbane!
HOTEL
Book up at the
CECIL
(FIRST CLASS)
Reasonable Tariff— Good Position.
is the hind of food
nvith which successful men
begin the day
Grape-Nuts can be
of greatest benefit
to you. Try it for
breakfast to-morrow!
Your grocer has it.
Grape-Nuts is one of
the Post Health
Products, which in-
clude also Instant
Postum, Postuni
Cereal, and Post
Toasties (Double-
thick Corn Flakes).
Make Your Own Breakfast
a Better, Health-giving Meal!
To make your own breakfast a better
breakfast try Grape-Nuts! These
crisp, delicious, golden kernels are so
high in food value that they make a
small breakfast entirely safe. Grape-
Nuts gives your body dextrins, maltose
and other carbohydrates for heat and
energy; iron for the blood; phos-
phorus for teeth and bones; protein for
muscle and body-building; and the
essential vitamin-B, a builder of the
appetite. Eaten with milk or cream,
it is an admirably balanced ration.
i
Wholesale Agents:
LEWIS & CULL, 316 Pitt Street, Sydney*
If any illustration in “THE BULLETIN” takes your fancy, write
to the MANAGER, who will quote you price for the original.
THE INKY WAY.
There is a large movement rumbling under-
ground whose object is to sweep into one net
half a dozen of the more important daily
newspapers of Australia, forming a circle
from Perth round to Brisbane. The rather
vague idea at present is to have a holding
co. and among other things institute a
brand-new world's news service. The matter
hasn’t gone far yet, but there arc people
who are prepared to spend money on carrying
it further.
“Ian C.”: H. G. Adam, associate editor of
Melbourne Herald, and Teddy Doyle, chief
of staff of the Argus, are accompanying the
Industrial Mission, such as it is. to the Yew-
iiited States to see how they marshal labor
there.
Lloyd Dumas, who is relinquishing the
editorship of Melbourne Sun-Pic. to take
on the London cable supervision job in which
big brother Herald is a factor, is no stranger
to the Cold Land. He was there with Hughes,
when Billy was Australia’s uncrowned king!
Not caring much for the job of publicity man,
he returned to the Argus and became chief of
staff, passing over to the Sun-Pic. before it
was transferred to the Herald co.
After 20-odd years a pen that used to writ:
much verse for The Bulletin came back to
the paper, and Kathleen Dalziel’s name has
been seen lately at the foot of various sets of
verse. Mrs. Dalziel, who used to be Kathleen
Walker, began to write for The Bulletin
in Archibald’s day, and he encouraged her
greatly. Then she married, and family cares
kept her occupied. Mrs. Dalziel was horn
in Natal, S’Africa, but came to Australia as
a child and grew up in the backblocks of Tas-
mania, so far removed from any school that
she never went to one, and was educated
entirely by her mother. Though the most
modest of writers, there is a rare singing
quality in her work, and she has a mind
unusually -well stored with pictures of coun-
try life and sienes.
“C.Q.”: An arrangement between Mel-
bourne Morning Post and a Sydney enter-
prise is a possibility which may result in the
Herald getting the competition anticipated in
its balance-sheet. If the Post transferred its
crusade to the afternoon the Argus and the
Age would kiss it on both cheeks, but it would
have to overcome some distribution difficul-
ties. The Herald, which occupied the same
dug-out before it, left largely because it hadn't
room to manoeuvre its fleet of motor-vans.
“Speculum”: Funny things, news values.
Some ten years ago a shooting accident
occurred at Maxwell’s farm in the valley
Inflow Wentworth Falls (N.S.W.), and the
then medical superintendent at Queen Vic-
toria Home for Consumptives, himself very
sick, went down into the valley at midnight
to aid the injured man. The “goat track
down the cliff face from King’s Tableland to
Maxwell’s is no joke at. any time; at night
and by the inadequate light of a couple of
hurricane lamps it must have been a nerve-
racking experience. But it was not boomed
in any newspaper. The doctor concerned
was just a conscientious little ex-A.I.F. man,
the patient an obscure bush worker. History
reneated itself last Boxing Day and we had
columns, illustrated at that, in most of the
city dailies ending with the report of the
young patient, son of well-known Blue Moun-
tain residents and nephew of other important
people, being safely borne home. The con-
trast is marked. Is it that our newspapers
are learning the Yankee bad habit of ex-
ploiting personalities?
“Privateer”: The par about the Sydney
Daily Post (B. 23/12/’26) reminds methaj
its Hobart namesake led an equally troubled
existence. On nay-days under the old regime
there was always a rush to get cheque 3
cashed, as we knew that even the most trust-
ing publican was liable to button up after
negotiating two or three. For all that the
Post lasted until Labor Papers, Ltd., decided
to take it over in 1918. There was no trouble
about wages after that. Macdonell House
brought in enough to pay the yearly l° ss
several times over. Labor Papers ran the
thing under the name of the World unftj
they got sick of it in 1923, when I helped
with the funeral. So did W. A. Woods, now
Speaker of the Speck Assembly. Ben Vat-
kins, M.H.A.. was manager at one time:
Dwyer Gray, now editor of the Voice of
Labor, Jim Mackay of the Perth DaiP
News, and Matt. O’Brien, now editing 11
Queensland country paper, were all editors
at various times. Howard Knapp, at present
representing the Sydney Evening News 111
London, was also a member of the staff.
“Old 'Unionist”: At the A.W.U. confer-
ence at Katooinba there were bitter railing 3
about unfair reporting in the Labor DaiU
although the argument always used to he
that fair reports of Labor affairs could n°t
be obtained until Labor owned papers of 1(3
own to correct the distortions of the “capital-
ist press.” It is not the first time the A.Wi-
ll as felt the boomerang effect of Labor argu-
ment. Its paper, the Worker, was t" 1 ;
first tackled in the journalists’ and artist 3
fight for better conditions. The VVoBKE#
granted better conditions, but finding. ‘ 1S
other employers frequently do. that so® 1 "
thing had to be done to balance the ledge 1 ’;
it sacked two men ; whereupon the staff wem
on strike. It was with tears in his voice
that “Dad” Spence, then chairman of
AVorker trustees, told the representatives ®
capitalistic journals that what he felt iu°-
was having a pistol presented at his bea®
“Bill Bowyang” : When the Leonta cyclone
partially wrecked Bowen (Q.) I was type-
snatching on the Port Denison Times, since
defunct. The night before the big blow tile
arrival of telegrams and cables was delayed,
so after waiting in vain for them until mid-
night we went home for a few hours’ sleep,
intending to return to the office at daylight.
When the alarm aroused me at 5 a.m. the
elements were throwing trees, tanks of water
and portions of ancient shacks over the land-
scape. Arriving in sight of the office I was jui
in time to see the roof of the building disappear-
ing over the courthouse, some distance away.
Inside the composiiig-room was chaos. We
adjourned to the nearest pub and listened ft)
the oldest inhabitants arguing about previous
cyclones. Later in the day we zig-zagged
back to the office and dried the cases by
burning paper over them. Three hours later
the paper was ready for circulation around
the badly-dinged township. Then we went
back to the pub.


When you select oils that carry the
Sinclair trade-mark, you are assured
of Sinclair quality—a quality that is
unsurpassed, at prices that are fair
always.
Sinclair.
Opaline
RE O. U.S. PAT. OE».
Motor. Oil
Sinclair Opaline Motor Oil increases the
efficiency and prolongs the life of the engine.
It helps the motorist maintain economical
transportation.
Ask your Garage-man for it!
SINCLAIR REFINING COMPANY,
New York and Chicago,
DALGETY S COMPANY LTD
Sole Agents for Australia.


ACCURATE SHOOTING
with a
COLT .22 CAL. AUTOMATIC
PISTOL.
Perfectly balanced; fires 10 ordinary .22 Cal.
long-rifle rim-fire cartridges as fast as you can
pull the trigger for each shot. This model has
proved most useful to sportsmen requiring a
handy weapon of highest quality firing a
standard cartridge which is both economical
and easy to procure. Length of barrel 64 inches;
length overall 10J inches ; weight 28 ounces.
IDEAL FOR TARGET SHOOTING AND
SMALL GAME, £8 10s
ACCIDENTAL DISCHARGE WITH A COLT
AUTOMATIC PISTOL IS ABSOLUTELY
IMPOSSIBLE.
CADET RIFLES, Cal. 297/230 Converted Mili-
tary Rifles, Alartini Action, 500 yards range
555.
.wSgasSKSmßams*"
Oriin and Cartridge Makers,
318 Little Collins St., Melbourne.
SMOKE
EDGEWORTH
TOBACCO
Australian Agents: R. TOWNS & CO., SYDNEY.
HULL,
The Natural Port for importation of
Wool to Britain’s
Great Manufacturing Towns.
Docks specially equipped with
Electrical Machinery for the
handling of large quantities.
Warehouse 3j Acres
Holds 140,000 Bales.
AUSTRALIAN SHIPPERS are in-
vited to inquire for further information
at the offices of Messrs BURNS,
PHILP & 00., LTD., 10 Bridge
Street, Sydney, and Branches.
London 8 North-Eastern Railway
Largest Dock-Owning Railway in the
World.
SUNDRY SHOWS.
SYDNEY SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
11 eh Majesty’s “Rose Marie”
Criterion “Cobra”
Royaii “The Pirates of Penzance”
Palace “Hullo, Healo!”
St. James “Jack and the Beanstalk”
Fullers’ Vaudeville
Tivoli Vaudeville
MELBOURNE SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
llis Majesty’s “Kissing Time”
King’s “The Last of Mrs. Cheyney”
Princess “Puss in Boots']
Athenjsum “The Ghost Train”
Tivoli Vaudeville
Bijou Vaudeville
Majestic Moving Pictures
Hoyt’s Moving Pictures
♦
The Gilbert and Sullivan company at the
Sydney Royal presented “The Pirates of
Penzance” on Saturday night, and the recep-
tion it is getting must almost have
shaken the faith of the management in its
own opinion that the public does not want
really good plays. In the warmth of its
heart, it proposes to let Australia have a
look at ‘Ttuddigore.” The improved judg-
ment of Sydney audiences, however, fails to
carry them to the decency of moderate silence
during the overture, the music of which
was chattered down on Saturday night as
blithely as ever.
* * * *
“'The Pirates” suffered from two handi-
caps at its introduction; Walenn, who
was to have been the Major-General with
a family of daughters resembling a ladies’
seminary, was unable to play; and at a
moment’s notice his understudy, Elved Jen-
kins, had to step into the part. This young
Australian, who is getting his first stage
chances, sang his music tunefully and his arti-
culation was laudably clear; what he lacked
was the unction which experience alonecan give.
The other handicap was that James Hay,
as the conscientious Frederic, was suffering
from a cold which reduced some of his
singing to the standard of confidences. Ber-
nard Manning made a robust Pirate King.
Strella Wilson revelled in the fine opportuni-
ties which the part of Mabel affords; for
the “Stay, Fredei’ic, Stay” number, she was
given a sequence of recalls ; and John Ralston,
who is no humorist usually, had a startling
red wig to help him in portraying a suffi-
ciently comic Sergeant of Police. The
choruses were excellent. Wirifred William-
son did moderately well as the pirates’ maid-
of-all-work, but the part requires more “make-
up” than she gave it. Lance Fairfax was
less in evidence as the pirate lieutenant than
lie should have been; and Mabel Gibson,
Effie Armstrong and Lillian Crisp made an
attractive trio in the Major-General’s large
and melodious family.
❖ Sic Sic sjc
It is largely a new cast, with a slight
declension in quality, which has come back
for the revival of “Fair and Warmer” at
Sydney Grand Opera House. Still, the play
is a hilarious offering, and Nellie
P>ramley is as good as ever as Blanny
Wheeler, the wife who finds that going gay
is only disillusion and a bad headache ; while
Brett Randall acquits himself favorably
as the sober banker who shares with her the
scared adventure amongst the cocktails.
George Flewlett has evidently failed to realise
that gay dogs are mostly jolly quiet fellows
—if they are even jolly—in their homes ; and
he made Jack Wheeler’s proclamation of his
hecticness unnecessarily boisterous. Mabel
Gower did fairly well as Laura, the sober
banker’s wife, and John Galway was color-
loss as Phillip Evans, the young man who
has built hopes on Laura’s frivolity. Rutland
Beckett and William McGowan extracted all
the humor possible out of the queerly-assorted
pair of furniture “removalists.”
The end of “Rose Marie” is in sight:
Monday week (February 21) the popular
musical comedy will finish its innings with
317 on the board. The ultimate performance
is being made a special function, and book-
ings for the seats are already pouring in.
“Tell Me More” will not take possession of
Her Majesty’s” until the Thursday following
the passing of the favorite; after such a long
run any theatre needs a clean-up. Kenneth
Duffield’s “Hullo. Healo” opens at the Palace,
from which “White Cargo” disappears to-
morrow or Saturday. It’s a queerly-mixed
company that presents it—Arthur Stigant
reappears as comedian ; G. Kay Souper is in
the cast; Oliver McLennan, the massive
Olive Grant (both were with Ward-Fullers),
Fred Carpenter (a dancer from the same co.)
and the two sisters of Elsie Prince (from
the Tivoli) are amongst the crowd. “Cobra”
continues its mesmeric influence at the
Criterion, and “Jack and the Beanstalk” will
run for three more weeks from next Satur-
day at the St. James.
Meanwhile several new shows are being
heralded. The new Empire Theatre opens
with “Sunny” on February 28; the success-
ful Australian Commonwealth Band, under
Conductor A. IT. Baile, will introduce the
blare of brass to the Haymarket Picture
Theatre on February 26 —part of a round
of Sydney engagements. Frank Neil, wlio,
when last here, had Maurice Tuohy (who
died last year) as a partner, will introduce
"The Nervous Wreck” to the Grand Opera
House on March 12; on the same date
Paderewski will commence to repeat his
magic on a piano at the Sydney Town Hall.
The long-haired genius (and ex-President)
is the first of a sequence of big notes in
music due to arrive during the year.
China scored a win at the Sydney Tivoli
on Monday—not Mr. Chen but Kwong Sing
Wall—with a company of fellow Orientals
ranging down to a youngster whose first
appearance is when he is produced from an
apparently empty shawl. The whole per-
formance, from the successful angling for
goldfish amongst the audience to the magical
change in identities between a man securely
locked in a box and another standing outside,
had been done before, with equally gorgeous
trappings; but it is very slick work, the
inwardness of which remains as bafflingly
attractive as ever. Sid Beck’s turn earned
applause almost as uproarious: he is a
comedian who has improved vastly in the
last couple of years, and is now able to get a
laugh with every line. The Haney dancers
continue a popular item; but the Big Four,
who have returned for the umpteenth time,
could do with new material.
** * *
Fullers’ Theatre has added Henri French
to its programme; disguising bis exploits
under a plausible representation of drunken-
ness, he performs feats on a wheel—and off
it—which few sober citizens would dare
attempt. The, /Ag-Zeig Revue* changes
its medium to “Mama’s Boy,” a pappy pro-
duction which enables Nat Hanley to be
as amusing as ever.
In “War Paint,” now showing at Hoyt’s
and the Strand, Sydney, Peter B. Kyne has
reconstructed frontier fights of the past;. Real
Indians—hundreds of them—are pictured in
this film of gallant action, and the scalping
scenes must have cheered the hearts of the
old braves, especially as they were paid for
the job.
A battle film :
Another story of the war! We’ve seen the actors
once before, and met the same old plot; but, after
all, “Three Faces East” has got a mystery at
least —is she a spy or not? As Fraulein Marks,
sweet .Tetta Gould is never by the Germans fooled ;
but frankly we confess she may be just a simple
maid, or else engaged in plots deep-laid—it’s diffi-
cult to guess. She loves the German plotter grim,
but has to make an end of him. The dreadful deed
is done; and Jetta of the furtive smile discloses all
the German’s guile, and so the war is won. The
Empress gives a feast of plots and counter-
plots at least.
Another wanderer comes home :
In the ancient days the victor returned to his
own country with the spoils: John It. Flanagan,
like many other Australians who in various branches
of art have been victors in other parts of the world,
returns to Australia (precisely to the Fine Arts
Gallery, 139 King-street, Sydney) to extract them
from his countrymen. And, doubtless, if he hadn’t
gone abroad to make good he would never have
AT THE SYDNEY TIVOLI,
Fred Bluett and “Mo” (Roy Rene).
secured the unanimously appreciative “press” which
has hailed his work on his return and enabled him
to ask the prices appearing in his catalogue. It
is good work up to a standard —the standard of the
American magazines which demand that their
picture heroes should be strong, impressive and
decorative. The work of Flanagan can be applauded
for its freedom, quality and sure craftsmanship.,
The most obvious fault is a lack of the sense of
action. In “Christ Driving the Money-changers
from the Temple,” the Saviour’s uplifted arm looks
as ineffectual as the fist with which Dazzarini,
M.L.A., nearly smote Lane, M.L.A., the other day.
There is the same lack of action in the bull in
“Blood and Sand,” one of three pictures
purchased by the trustees of the National
Gallery—it cost them 75 guineas. So did
“The Gift,” while “The Night Before Mara-
thou” ran them to 60 guineas. In the bullfighting
picture one’s eye lingers longer on the intensely
interested Spanish gentleman in the foreground than
on the bull or its assailants. “The Night Before
Marathon” represents a Greek soldier saying fare-
well in moonlight-flooded surroundings to a Greek
girl looking uncommonly like a modern flapper,
whose draperies, with the moonlight's effect upon
them, are exquisitely worked. It is almost possible to
hear her urging her lover to buy her a box of
chocolates before he goes. The best preference in
an interesting show goes to such imaginative pieces
as “An Arabian Night.”
Over three shows in Melbourne the blue
Peter is flying. At His Majesty’s “The
Cousin from Nowhere” will return whence
he came to-morrow night; on Saturday the
“THE GHOST
TRAIN” AT
MELBOURNE
ATHENEUM.
Miss Bourne (Laura Smithson ) changes the
name of her parrot from Joseph to Clara.
Teddy Deakin (Basil Radford), “the life and
death of the party,” cheers ’em up.”
curfew will ring for “Kissing Time,” when
a new English comedian, Leo Eranklyn, will
make his bow. “The Hottentot” is in its last
throes at the Palace, and but a fortnight
remains in which to say farewell to blithe-
some Ada Reeve at the Royal. “The Ghost
Train” is only in the first stages of its
eerie journey at the Athenaeum, but, there
being a shortage of Mum, Dad and the kids,
“Puss in Boots,” at the Princess, has con-
tracted to two matinees a week. “The Last
of Mrs. Cheyney”—and Miss Kelly—may be
inspected at the Royal until further notice,
though the notice is not expected to be with-
held over long, as Nellie Stewart is impend-
ing. Also a theatre must shortly be found
for the Melbourne Repertory Society’s first
adventure under the new Tait regime.
Melbourne Tivoli is relishing the quaint
version of chaos introduced by Olsen and
Johnston, two exponents of tiie American
jazz type of humor, that starts anywhere,
gets nowhere and deposits odds and ends of
uncompleted turns about the landscape.
Mostly their act is done in a darkened theatre
while the limelight man works overtime
picking up a gorilla chasing a woman down
an aisle, or ah escapologist writhing out of a
strait waistcoat in a corner. Other new-
comers are Gerrardo and Adair, one of whom
is a slim serpentine lady deserving of better
treatment than to be juggled in mid-air by
her gymnastic colleague. Moore and Shy
consist of a fat man with a thin voice and
a little man with a large manner, and both
make good fun out of their amazing difference.
Protea, a shapely Australian damsel, poses
gracefully before some rather garish scenery.
George Wallace, the Australian concoctor
producer and performer of revues that aren’t
conspicuously Australian, is this week “Off
Honolulu,” as well as being at the Bijou,
Melbourne. Assisting him in deeds of mirth
and music are Bertini and Byrne; also Story
and Brooks. The programme is rather con-
gested with humorists whose arsenal of gags
is somewhat obsolete, but nobody appears to
mind.
Uncle Sam’s steel industry forms a strik-
ing, also a whirling and blazing, background
to Milton Sills's pure passion for a modest
maid at Hoyt’s Melbourne centre this week.
“Men of Steel” is the title of this noteworthy
scenic and dramatic effort, and “War Paint,”
a wild-west story, follows. “The Wild Bull’s
Lair” is the chief faucet in the Majestic’s
flow of fancy. The leading role is taken
by a bull trained by Red Indians to such
a ferocious hatred of the white man that it
nearly drives the settlers into the Atlantic.
A wild bull of another kind is Grace Dar-
mond, who, in the supporting picture, “Her
Great Adventure,” gores the conventions of
society.
“Lud”: Two notable British poets appeared
as authors of Christmas entertainments in
London during the Christmas season—Alfred
Noyes and John Drinkwater. “Robin Hood,”
written by Noyes, partly in blank verse, was
produced by Lena Ashwell at the outlvhu
Century. Drmkwater’s “Puss in Boots'" l
IK pl ‘V'- W J£ receivef ] with enthusiasm at
the Apollo. The puss of the title—a fat nan
—was played by Norman Page, who was the
feline of Maeterlinck’s “Blue Bird” in Aik
tralia.
T ••Tamornie” : The camel is a perverse brute
In "Beau Geste,” at Melbourne Capitol i
notice that one the beasts, though it had
died from thirst, still persisted in chewh-
its cud. 8
* V? : Claudft Flemming, the com-
tortabie-looking musical-comedy favorite who
has already put in some time as a picture-
actor, is about to revisit Hollywood. After-
wards he means to return for the production
of all-Australian pictures.
“Hamfat”; Judith Anderson, now starr-
ing m Cobra,” at Sydney Criterion, will
not appear in either “The Dove” or “Tie
Green Plat.” “Tea for Three,” with Peon
Cordon (who was to have returned! to
London, but isn’t going) playing opposite
tlie vamp-actress, is the Firm’s proposal.
“C. Ockney”: “The Ghost Train,” like
many another big winner, was originally
put on in London as a stop-gap. That
was over a year ago and the piece is still
m the bills. And three companies are
touring the provinces. In one of them Aus-
tralia’s well-remembered visitor Ethel War-
wick is playing lead.
“Hamfat”: A shout of victory should come
from Bulletin contributors who have been
persistently demanding that the present (i
and S. co. should give “Ruddigore” aii
Australian presentation. The Firm has
decided to include it in the company’s reper-
toire. It was largely a matter of costumes
and staging upon which the verdict hung'
but the Firm is well served in this respect.
“Permanent Blot”: When Gilbert’s game-
keeper shot a pheasant which fell in the
adjoining estate of Blackwell, of Crosse
and Blackwell, the witty author apolo-
gised thus for his employee’s trespass:
“Awfully sorry that my keeper should have
done such a thing. I cannot think why he
should have poached on your preserves—
pardon the use of the word ‘preserves’!”
“Ell”: Mummers well known to Aus-
tralia in the London production of “The
Ghost Train” are Caleb Porter, George Mul-
caster and Connie Ediss; and the general
manager for the syndicate presenting the
play (now showing at five theatres in the
United Kingdom) is Harry Cohen, who
brought "Scandal” to this country, and
toured the bedroom thriller through the
“smalls” after the Firm had finished with
it. Another London player remembered
here is Frank Freeman—the original bri-
gand chief in “The Maid of the Mountains.”
He is in the cast of Galsworthy’s “Escape.”
“Tabra”: Our movie censors begin at the
wrong end: they censor pictures instead of
spectators. That they have some glimmer-
ing of what they should do is shown by the
occasional stipulation that certain films must
not be shown before children under 16. But
this defeats its own purpose: it acts merely
as an added lure to unsavory productions.
Pictures should be classified broadly thus:—
A: Historical dramas, educational films, gazettes,
travel pictures, etc.
B: “Westerns,” “comics,” sentimental love stories.
C : Sex dramas, problem plays, “crook” plays,
realistic dramas and spiced comedies.
D: Hot stuff.
Picturegoers should then be classified accord-
ing to the grade of their intelligence, and the
censors should issue permits (in passport
form, with photos) which would have to be
shown at the theatre. Children would natu-
rally be classed as A; flappers and hobble-
dehoys as B ; and adults of average intelli-
gence and previous good character as C.
Only newspaper men, bookmakers, cliofus-
girls, lounge-lizards and other hardened
worldlings should be permitted to see D pic-
tures. All the trouble arises from persons
of A mentality being turned loose on D plays.
“Bis” : I was the smallest company that
ever successfully toured Australia for three
months. I was the show, lock, stock and
barrel. Two years ago I was on a collect-
ing expedition in North Queensland, and
landed at Rockhampton after a rough spin
in the floods, having lost most of my equip-
ment and all my money. I interested the
manager of an old skating-rink in my ex-
periences ; and he arranged a lecture for
me during an interval in the skating carnival
The collection yielded £4 10s.; and with it
I invested in dodgers and colored handker-
chiefs, a pack of cards, certain chemicals
and a few odds and ends. Billing myself
as an explorer-entertainer, I started down
the line, and was so well received that I
was induced to return to many of the towns.
My two hours’ entertainment began with an
hour’s lecture on my travels, with comedy
relief. I then introduced myself as a con-
jurer with sleights I had learnt from Alf
Sylvester, and illusions. Then at the piano
I sang and started the audiences themselves
on choruses and popular ballads. At a silver-
coin admission, my takings were never less
than £lO a night; and the profit on the
tour allowed me to continue my lone expedi-
tion to the Gulf.


A
Am 'TC
A
- /
&
M
Ku^ryA^'
*
4 «*02
4>/4
r^fti
«£
! '„> ‘XT
7’^\
:=*/
V (
Is
fi*
m
(Ss=
SfT
3i
,>.2
k?
!i - -
qVX; «£> 3F
- W\«_ .A. A
:°^^ClyTr
x»> ?■* v. icr\ -.:<m,M
'V~;
■ifFA
1
4;,
Hi
■*l
flfo| 11 ■I” ■'•!"■■
WQ !:; Ijl I 1
, ,11 !..//'■
&
1 Z&L jf
J\<
m
Vi
=%
m
r:J
S»5
W
Cc/«
m
JU
r? 7
\N
N N
XX
ri
II
X
Ist
:J//w
SS
'il Vim ‘ „
’,i y). .■* -o —_
i 1 \m
. /
a ■:
XU
*t I feii.-,.
UKr
S >1
l!X
ini
r.
\^V
£«
r-
ii^i
eras
C£
jisrH
a
rj.
I^p
SX • !
X x-
p
-S3;;-
y£
Hxy>
U\
- 1
( a >
a
hA MPION RESERVE
- PORT
rT3
4*
rottlED by the makers
P v * / . .annv CAMC i ■ _
ss
faoMAS HARDY &SONS LIMITED
TH' _ iri r MELBOURNE & SYDMr.
>VX
A pEuA aU stralian wine
SOLITH
X
1 PINT 6 FLUID OZS.
1
»
!?£
p
’■!HV 7
XX
Fortunate Tintara
by the rays of a happy sun,
the broad vinefields of Tintara smile
and gladden to a rich success. The
reputation of Hardy’s renowned Tintara wines
Was, year after year, built here. The dominat-
ing factors of purity and excellence, which have
placed Hardy’s Champion Reserve Wines
(Gold Label) on a plane of their own, wers
created on the glowing fields of Tintara. When
you call for Hardy’s Gold Label wines you
Uow that 80 years ago age was given to this
fine vintage—age which gives every advantage
to an organisation that to-day can supply the
Very finest wines at a price within the reach
of all. At this season of the year every home
should possess Hardy’s wines, and no present
Would be more appreciated than a bottle or
case of Hardy’s Champion Reserve Gold Label
Vines.
Procurable in all Hotels and Licensed
Stores where the proprietors are
proud to specialise in high-grade
wines.


Mere words cannot express
their infinite superiority*
Army Club
lO for 9d* CIGARETTES 20 for 1/6
In pure ribbed watermarked paper .
CAVANDERS Ltd,, Loudon (Est. 1775), Pioneers of Hygienic Cigarette Packing.
>s;i
m
'2
CORK-
TIPPED
or PLAIN
Poverty
Point
“Curtain Raiser” : The coppers that started
Little Tich on his homeward way may have
come from an English pocket, as “Hamfat”
(B. 3/2/’27) says, but throwing pennies is
not the orthodox London method—at least,
not in the best family circles. This is the
Cockney way. The comedian has paused be-
fore a silent auditorium waiting for the
applause he doesn’t deserve. None comes,
but a loud, penetrating voice from the gods
cuts the air asking Liza the time; and Liza
supplies the information in the same tone
and with decorative trimmings. A discussioii
then ensues whether the quickest way to get
home is by ’bus, tram or toob, and is renewed
earnestly at every pause in the comedian’s
performance. That settles him.
“Caul Boy” : Little Tich only suffered the
usual fate of comedians who visit us in
the evening of their days. Harry Weldon
and Wilkie Bard both found when they came
to Australia that scores of imitators had
stolen their thunder. Crock, the eminent
french clown, who will be probably the most
expensive goods ever imported by the Tivoli
people, is likely to suffer in the same way.
Hundreds will say that they have seen it all
before. Eighteen months ago Noni and
Horace delighted Tivoli audiences with their
quaint and original feats with grand pianos
and mandolins. Noni had been Crock’s
assistant, and there is no copyright in comic
business. Charles Chaplin established his
rights in his peculiar make-up in an Ameri-
can court, but anybody can legally imitate
bis shuffle.
“C.”: I wonder if f lic producers of the
"His Natural Life” film provided a shark
to represent “Government Billy,” who is
described in the Australian Journal ver-
sion of the novel as having been officially
rationed, like any warder, with so many
pounds of pork a day. Billy’s job was to
swim about the bay at Port Arthur; there
was also a pack of bloodhounds kennelled
on a floating platform. Hollywood intro-
duced a faked whale in an atrocity called
“The Sea Beast,” so a faked shark should be
feasible.
“Ex-Camden-Townie”: “Topee” mixes
things up a bit in his T. W. Robertson par
(B. 27/l/’27). Mrs. Kendal (Madge Robert-
son) is not the daughter of the dramatist,
but his sister; and she was the 22nd child
of her parents. Still living, the child that
"Topee” played with in Camden Town is
now 78 years of age.
“R.K.D.N.”: If the Sydney Empire thea-
trical syndicate is not quickly absorbed by
older firms, the opposition is bound to
lower the present scale of admission charges.
And on its merits the entertainment provided
by the latest bunch of showmen should
attract the crowd of musicornedy patrons.
“Sunny,” written by Harback and Hammer-
stein, the concoctors of “Rose Marie,” and
musicked by the invariably acceptable Jerome
Kern, lias had a great vogue abroad. It
recently concluded a New York run of 514
performances, and has been in the bills of
Loudon Hippodrome since early, in October.
“Caul Boy”: Seymour Hicks, cabled as
having been sued by one of his company for
his roughness during rehearsals, was no
respecter of persons, not excluding his own
family. When his daughter was being pre-
pared in Australia for her first appearance
on any stage, her irascible father’s tongue
was often curled all round her. Incidentally,
the Laird of Loch Buie, the actor with the
grievance, was a few years ago on the vaude-
ville circuit in Australasia, and made a par-
ticularly flat impression.
“Hamfat” : Nat Hanley, who as principal
comedian of the Zig-Zag Revue Co. has been
showing Fuller audiences that revue comedy
need not be merely knock-about humor, is a
Londoner, but, having been in Australia for
12 years, reckons himself an Australian.
Nat has appeared in some of the smallest
"smalls” in Australasia; and it was only the
pantomime shuffle which called Phil Smith
elsewhere that gave him his present chance.
Though his methods are very different, he is
almost as popular as “Mo” used to be.
“Lud” : It is correct, as far as Australia
goes, for ‘ The Showman” (B. 27/l/’27) to
speak of Robert Brough playing the part in
Pinero’s “Iris” that “subsequently Oscar
Asche liked so much.” But Asche created
Maldonado in London long before Brough
appeared in it out here. And a wonderfully
striking performance it was in those days.
“Curtain Raiser”: James Dyer’s munifi-
cent offer to the City Council of £lO,OOO
puts Melbourne on the road towards having a
permanent orchestra. But an adequate band
is an expensive necessity or luxury. As
THE CUE.
“Billy boay, when we do come to the haaz run, gi ’ me a nudge,
will ’ec?”
even £3OOO a year would not be too much
to maintain 50 or 60 performers on the
elaborate symphonic scale, the Dyer gift
needs more subscriptions till at least £60,000
is provided. That there is a local thirst for
harmony is shown by the fact that impres-
arios are importing no fewer than eight first-
class giants of song and music for the winter.
If the Australian capitals had their own per-
manent orchestras there might be a falling-off
in these invasions and much money kept in
the country.
“Chiller”: I was making a weekly “gaz-
ette” for certain pillars of the “Australian”
film industry, and it occurred to me that
a series of travel pictures—Australian, of
course—would go well. The pillars were
favorable until the contract price came shyly
into the discussion. There was a different
atmosphere at once. I quoted the bedrock
price of 7d. a foot for the completed film,
titles and all, ready for projection. Loud
and prolonged laughter. “Why,” I was
pityingly told, “we can get as much American
travel stuff as we like to bring into the coun-
try at a penny a foot!” At the time nega-
tive film was costing me 3d. a foot and posi-
tive 2d.; and, allowing for laboratory and
travelling expenses, there would have been
little profit in the 7d. I mentioned. So
Australians are still bored with thousands of
feet of the Yellowstone Park, and the Grand
Canon of Arizona, and all the other Yankee
show-places that have been screened so many
times.
“Lever de Rideau”: Allan Wilkie will re-
commence his mediaeval forays at Melbourne
Palace on February 26 with his new Eng-
lish properties, including Herbert Tree’s
delegated duds; two English actors, Dennis
Barry and Frank Clewlow; and, for the rest,
practically the old Australian cast, including
Miss Hunter-Watts. It is quite a mis-
take to conclude that Wilkie confines him-
self exclusively to Shakspeare. Fletcher and
Massinger are believed to have had as much
to do with “Henry VIII.,” the opening pro-
duction, as had the Bard ; and even Beaumont
lias been suspected of having a finger in the
pie. One critic described the piece as a
chronicle history with three and a half catas-
trophes, varied by a marriage and a corona-
tion-pageant, and ending abruptly with a
baptism. Which just shows that too many
cooks could spoil the broth in those days,
just as they do in the modern American
inusicomedy.
“R. Rackstraw”: It is periodically alleged
that Arthur Sullivan was really Solomon, a
Houndsditch Jew. As a matter of fact, he
was the son of Thomas Sullivan, an Irish
violinist employed in the old Victoria
Theatre; his mother was also Irish, Coghlan
by name, with an Italian strain on her
mother’s side. Arthur was born in Lambeth.
His dad became bandmaster at the Royal
Military College, Sandhurst, and was after-
wards appointed first professor at the Royal
Military School of Music at Kellner Hall.
Unlike our great masters of jazz, Arthur under-
went a thorough musical training from child-
hood. For a time he was a chorister at the
Chapel Royal and in later years he studied
at Leipsic, where he composed his score for
“The Tempest.”
“Goldilocks”: The Queen of Roumania is
evidently not the only royalty who is traflick-
ing with the movie
people. The trail
of Hollywood is
over pictures of
the lovemaking of
Prince Charles of
Belgium and the
Swedish Princess
Astrid, and if the
young couple are
not set up in a new
castle for their
housekeeping they
ought to be. The
infatuated youth is
shown meeting the
Princess, sitting
with her in the
park, and “holding
hands.” And there
is a close-up of a
family circle, with
the lovers cuddling
up to one another,
which blatantly be-
trays the movie
director behind the
scenes. Perhaps the
film firm is paying
for the honeymoon.
“Qwerty” : You’re
all wrong about the
date of Melba's
final farewell. It
is at least 50 years
ahead. The British
Museum is storing
matrices of the
voices of our great
singers in hermeti-
cally-sealed brass
containers. They
will belong to the
British nation for
all time —and they
are not to be
opened until half a century after the singer’s
death.
“John’s Wood” (Loml.) : There has been
a great upheaval in the opera world of Nice.
Salaries have become niggardly ; it has been
revealed that the conductor’s fee is only
£6 a week. As in England, music in France
is staggering on feeble financial legs. In
Nice, by the way, are Lalla Miranda and
her younger sister Beatrice, of the British
National Opera. Beatrice, with Lalla’s help,
is working up a French repertoire for her
concert tours and to assist her husband,
Ilebden Foster, who has a big teaching con-
nection in Edinburgh.
“Hamfat” : Providence and the Melbourne
police gave Fullers’ “Puss in Boots” panto,
useful publicity in a prosecution of Frank
Apdale, whose monkeys are performing at
the show, for cruelty to a baboon. The
monk, appeared in court, and showed
affection for the man alleged to be
cruel, and the Fullers took care that the
whole company was paraded in the temple
of justice. Some annoyed humanitarians
were. responsible for the proceedings. Once
I paid a police-officer ten quid for a good
publicity-giving prosecution. Business had
been so had that I expressed a wish that
we might be blue-papered for obscenity
in the play—it had hot passages. The police
official promised, as a friend, to do what
he could for £lO, and I was proceeded against
for “allowing an obscene expression to be
used. During the season of the hearinz
both the play and the court had capacity
houses. 1
“Hamfat”: Some parts of Australia not
regarded as worth a visit by “the Firm's'
companies owe a debt of gratitude to Nellie
Bramley. Tasmania, for instance, would nut
have seen the Renee Kelly plays, “Brown
Sugar,” “Polly with a Past” and “The Last
of Mrs. Cheney,” if Nellie had not taken
them there ; she also introduced the Island t,,
the John D. O’Hara play “Lightnin’ ” and
“Aren’t We All?” When Billy Russell de-
cided to undertake the cares of management
with his wife as star it was a lone-hand
effort ; but after his co. had played nine
weeks at the Sydney Palace with “Fair and
Warmer” the Firm decided that his show was
worth working as an auxiliary. As lessee
of the Grand Opera House (he has it for 10
years, and it has turned out. a remarkably
good spec.), he is not in want of dates as
far as Sydney is concerned.
“Caesar’s Ghost”: Renee Kelly, staging
“The Last of Mrs. Cheyney” in Melbourne
found that she couldn’t do without Leslie
Victor, who was rushed across to the city
which is not half as well laid out as its
visitors sometimes are. The useful man to
fill his place was found in Frederick For-
rester, who in “White Cargo” is the palsied
cadet failure of the first act. He carried
both parts; and he will be a thankful man
when “White Cargo” finishes to-morrow
(Friday), seeing that he had to get into
a real fever in getting off one'make-up and
putting on another so as to appear in the
second act of “Cobra.” Hugh Steyne obliged
the management in a similar way in Mel-
bourne a couple of years ago, when he
divided his time between “Primrose” at His
Majesty’s and “Good Morning, Dearie!” at
the Royal. This sort of thing makes an
actor’s existence a strenuous one—especially
on matinee days.
“Goldilocks”: The long-delayed “Madame
Pompadour” is at last to arrive—the open-
ing will be at Adelaide, but Melbourne will
have the show for Easter. The play will
introduce a new imported leading lady, Beppy
de Vries, who played the part on “the Con-
tinong.” London is keeping Evelyn Laye,
who has the part there, too busy, although
the Firm approached her.
“C.Q.”: Vic. National Gallery has decided
to spend £50,000 on itself. It is going to
level all the galleries, a godsend to tired
mothers and toiling children; improve the tea
rooms, a convenience which the big Paris
and Berlin art shows have found extremely
profitable; and provide 8464 square feet of
additional space for pictures. This last should
enable the student to get far enough away
from the two immense Chavannes cartoons
to see them; and the third costly white
elephant of the series, now rusticating in the
basement, may even be led out and exhibited,
“Hamfat”: Harry Green has reached Lon-
don with “Give and Take,” and has fulfilled
at least half of his enthusiastic projects for
introducing Australians in the London repre-
sentation. Lorna Helms is understudying
the part she played here; another lady was
engaged to play it before Green knew Lorna
was available. The other lady is Dorothy
Seacombe, whose bright girl performances are
still remembered in Sydney and Melbourne.
Roy Rene, who was taken over by the Wil-
liamson management, was the other half of
Green’s intentions; the man who was “Mo"
when he had a “Stiffy” to partner him is
back again on the Tivoli circuit now that
“Aladdin” is finished.
“Mayne Stay” : In all the talk about varia-
tions from the Gilbert and Sullivan tradi-
tion I have seen no mention of Australian
departures from the rule that no woman
should represent a man, or the other way
about. This was laid down at the beginning
of the partnership and strictly adhered to in
my day in England. Even the midshipman
in “Pinafore” was a boy. I got quite a
shock, years ago in Sydney, when in
“lolanthe” I saw the Lord Chancellor’s train
carried round by a girl in black tights.
“Hamfat”: One Sliakspearean co. actually
did get a sort of subsidy (B. 3/2/’27) in
N.S.W. It had an arrangement with the
Education Department by virtue of which
the school-children at a place it was visit-
ing were given a half-holiday to see the
show; and sometimes the whole body of
pupils would be marched to the playhouse
by their teachers. Not only was it good
business in itself, but the youngsters helped
to bring parental money to the night-time
performances. The death of Ellen Pollock
put an end to the profitable venture. Ellen
was a Sliakspearean actress of a quality
that would have surprised Allan Wilkie.
“A.G.M.” (Lond.) : Bessie Rignold, who
toured the Commonwealth when the fame
of her uncle George was still fresh in Am 1 -
tralian memory, figures in a revival of “The
Private Secretary” at the Kingsway Theatre.
She plays the part of the landlady, and plays
it well, although there is little to suggest
the picturesque figure which she presented
in George Musgrove’s production of “A Mid-
summer Night’s Dream.”
ROUNDING POVERTY POINT.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The old wrecks that lie
On the lee of the Cri.,
With their timbers too dry—
As the longshoremen often inform me—
If they could but get round
That grim Point renowned,
A good berth they’re found,
Secure from wild weather and stormy.
Gallant seamen are they,
But they’ve all had their day,
And with hair turning grey
They look back to their wonderful glories.
They curse their hard fate
And they mutter “Too late!”
And in sadness they wait —
Old shellbacks with very old stories.
But the barnacles grow
As they swing to and fro,
And they’re eager to go.
Hound the Point there are plenty of places
Where these vessels of pride
At their anchors could ride,
Awaiting the tide
That will waft them to landladies’ graces.
Let a favoring breeze
Gome up, if you please,
And after rough seas
May they from their idleness sever;
May they strut on the poop
Of a liner or sloop—
They are back with the troupe,
And the ghost walks each Friday for ever!
N.S.W.
A. H. A.


ě
Every Requisite
For the Up-to-date
e
Hairdresser and Tobacconist
Attractively Priced at
1
o
This great firm’s stocks of Hairdressers’ Requisites, Toilet Articles, Saloon Fittings and
Equipment, Electric Apparatus, etc., are the largest and most comprehensive an the
Southern Hemisphere, and embrace the most modern ideas incorporated in the Hair-
é
dressing Saloon of to-day.
The “Peerless” Barber Chair
Made expressly for Mick Simmons; it is the finest
value offering in the trade.
The ' Peerless” is an iron chair of commanding
appearance, with the seat frame and pedestal
finished in white porcelain enamel.
The operating mechanism is power-
ful and strong. A nickel-plated ring
covers the pedestal base; metal
trimmings are also heavily nickel-
plated. Has patent adjust-
able drop-back head rest.
Chair is upholstered with
high-grade leather; arms
are also upholstered and
have wooden hand holds.
The “Peerless” is a re-
volving and reclining
chair, but is
™ce y “' £35110/-
The “Perla” Barber Chair
Also made exclusively for Mick
Simmons, this remarkably low
priced chair has many unique and
outstanding features.
The “Perla” is a handsome wooden
chair finished in oak, and strongly
constructed throughout. Fitted with
a patent adjustable head rest, and
also a patent lever which allows
chair to be adjusted to any
height. Upholstered in good
grade leather. Has revolv-
ing and reclining action, but
is non-hydraulic.
Price
£24/lO|-
SiSW'
Other makes of Chairs at prices ranging from £6/10/-
Self-filling Water Heater
Made of heavy copper, nickel-
plated on outside and heavily
tinned on inside. The flow is
controlled by the main tap
When the cold water enters the
heater the hot water is forced
from the outlet pipe, which can
be turned in any direction. The
utmost efficiency is obtained
from the gas, as two baffle
domes and corrugations trans-
fer the heat to the water.
Height, 20in.; . dia- orf| r /
meter, 7£in. Price. . XDIID/ -
Other styles of Electric and Gas Urns from
45/- to 70/- respectively.
Cabinet Sterilizer
Style No. 4. Made of oak, in a very
pleasing design, with marble top;
26in. wide, spring hinge, glass door.
Has two drawers, with one tray in
cabinet. Height, 23in.; or [**7lC
depth, 12in. Price .... .bDjli/v
Cabinet Sterilizer
Style No. 2. Made of oak
with marble top; 17in.
wide, spring-hinged glass
door, two drawers, with
locks, one tray in cabi-
net; height, 24in.;
depth, 12in. «rjr.
Price .. . . htllt) "
ê
Other Sterilizers in different styles at various
prices,
Framed Notices
For use inside and outside
saloons. Pleasing three-color
■wording. Dark oak and glass
frame. Size, 1 3in. x 1 1 in. Six
different wordings. _ .
Price Dj-
Special Notices made to order,
1/- extra.
Framed Mirror
Solid oak frame, polished.
Mirror, 39 4 in. x 1 7-|in.
all, 5 3 4-in. x 2 7in.
Price
Bevelled
Size over
£4/12/6
Saloon Fitment
The illustration on right repre-
sents a special design “one-
chair” fixture. Made in solid
oak, polished. Fitted with five
drawers for carrying the neces-
sary tools of trade, also two
enclosed towel compartments
and open recess in centre. A
white marble bench covers the
work cabinets. High-grade
bevelled mirror; size, 30in. x
30in.; height, 7ft. sin.; width,
4ft.; depth, Min. n«£/«AI
Price liO/lU|-
We will be pleased to quote you
for any special design of Saloon
Fitment.
Our Stocks *of Framed
Mirrors comprise a splendid
range in different styles and
sizes.
V
(Packing and Carriage Extra.)
HAIRDRESSERS !
Our Special Catalogue of Hairdressers’ Requisites, Toilet Articles, Saloon Fittings and Equipment, Electric Apparatus' etc., used in the trade, free on request.
SALOONS EQUIPPED AND FITTED OUT ON EXTENDED TERMS. IF SO DESIRED. OLD CHAIRS TAKEN BACK AS PART PAYMENT
O
IC
immons
Headquarters: 720 HAYMARKET, SYDNEY.


<23
W
o
o
&
*
V;
o
VN"
T
H
m
I
VJ*
c
&
je
%
m
//
When you open your next tin of REX-PYE, look well
at the can. Note the absence of seams —each tin is
stamped out. Note that no solder or soldering flux is
used-each tin is hermetically sealed. It is the perfect
hygienic container, the triumph of up-to-date canning.
The contents are safer food during hot weather than
fresh meat—in fact, 100 per cent. safe.
Add to this :
1. That the raw materials are perfectly wholesome and of
choicest quality. Visitors from abroad inspecting our works
have said that the meats are superior to those used at any
other factory in their experience.
2. That the spicing by a recipe in our sole possession, and the
excellent jelly, help to produce the delicious flavour
characteristic of REX-PYE.
3. That the cooking en casserole retains all the wholesome
juices and high food values.
and you know why REX-PYE is the finest meat in the
world. Try it for yourself. Note the delicate aroma
as you open the tin, and the delicious flavour as you
eat the dainty.
r a)
Lns
Other REX Pure Foods in these Perfect Cans.
lib and %lb TINS
Rex Baked Beans in Tomato Sauce
Rex Lorraine Smoked Sausages
Rex Pork Sausage
Rex Pork and Beans in Tomato
Sauce
Rex K-be-B (Kidneys, Beans, and
Bacon)
Rex Devilled Kidneys
Rex Ox Tongue
lib TINS ONLY
Rex Pork Brawn
Rex Pig Feet
Rex Fry and Bacon
Rex Beef Sausages
Rex Red-y-mele.choice beef end
vegetables— a ready meal
ALWAYS SAY REX
REX-PYE
Foggitt Jones Ltd.
Curers of the choice REX Hams and Bacotv


The “Wild Cat” Monthly
An Extension of the Famous “Wild
Cat” Pages of “The Bulletin.”
NO INVESTOR CAN AFFORD TO BE
WITHOUT IT.
PRINCIPAL CONTENTS OF FEBRUARY NUMBER.
Anthony Hordern & Sons
AuSt. Mercantile, Land & Finance
Australian Mont-de-Piete
Australasian Paper & Pulp
Australian Traders’ Insurance
Aust. Temperance & General Life
Ballarat Woollen & Worsted Co.
Bank of New South Wales
British Australian Cotton
Broomfields, Limited
Business Biographies:
Dalgety & Company
By-ways of Life Insurance
Carlton & United Breweries
Choice of Investments
Commonwealth Stocks
Cox Investments
Equitable Building & Investments, N.Z.
Federal Deposit Bank
Herald & Weekly Times, Limited
Hume Steel. Limited
Invincible Colliery, Limited
J. Fielding & Company
Kauri Timber Company
Lamson Paragon, Limited
Mining:—
Price of Lead and Zinc
N.S.W. Mining Handicaps
North Queensland Tin
Kalgoorlie Amalgamations
North Mount Farrell
Ratrut’s New Show
Rawang’s Activities
Malayan Tin
National Mutual Life
National Trustees, Executors & Agency Co.. Australia
Newcastle & Hunter River Steam
New Issues and Prospectuses:—
Commercial Banking Co. of Sydney
Gehrig’s Wines
George A. Bond & Co.
New Registrations
N.Z. Loan & Mercantile Agency
. Perdriau Rubber
Points for Investors
Red Funnel Fisheries
Robert Reid & Company
Rosella Preserving & Manufacturing
Rubber
S. Bennett
Share Market Review
Stockton Borehole Collieries
Swan Brewery Co. (Perth, W.A.)
Tasmanian Wool Growers’ Agency
Tooth & Company
W. E. Smith
Western Australian Bank
Westport Coal Co.
\V. AY. Campbell
Yellow Cabs of Australia
Price 2/-. From all Principal News-
agents, or direct from “The Bulletin”
Office, 214 George Street, Sydney; and
454 Flinders Street, Melbourne,
By Appointment to
11
H.M. King George V .
lIULIUM
111 l
M
NEW ROADS FOR
TASMANIA
The illustration shows the type of Leyland 4-ton
Tipping Lorry, fourteen of which have recently
been ordered by the Tasmanian Government for
road-construction purposes.
Large fleets of Leyland Lorries are used to a
remarkable extent by Government Departments,
principally for heavy work such as road-making,
where the utmost reliability and stamina are
necessary.
Leyland is proud of its association with the pro-
gressive building of National Roads throughout
the Commonwealth.
LEYLAND LORRIES FOR ROADS
PRICES OF STANDARD AUSTRALIAN CHASSIS
Ex Sydney and Melbourne Works:
2- £720
3- £B5O
4- £1075
5- £llB5
ev
HEAD OFFICE
24 CROSVENOR ST
- SYDNEY ••
ENGLAND
SERVICE STATION
AUSTRALIA ST.
CAMPERDOWN
TELEPHONES 8.7951-8.7952 —TELEGRAMS LEYMOTORS-SYDNEY
“Caveman”: Touching the risks of• dis- |
turbing old burial-grounds (B. 20/1/ -<)•
The persistence of germ-life is amazing: the
little beasts have been found in Egyptian
mummies. Just before the war several old
London city churches found it necessary to
remove bodies from their crypts. At St.
Martin’s, Ludgate Hill, a faint indefinable
smell which had for years puzzled the scanty
congregation became a decided pong, and was
traced to the shelves. Yet many generations
had passed since any burials hud taken
place there. In various parts of the city
of London certain fine playing-fields and
open courtyards were burial-pits at the time
of the Great Plague (1665), and it is an
accepted thing that no digging will ever be
permitted in those places not even to build
a garage.
“Hobnobster”: Ever do any work for
Assyrians? I managed an action for a firm
of them, softgoods merchants, recently. The
proceedings were humorous. After the first
interview they began to mention wonderful
gifts that they had in mind; and the gifts
grew T as time went on, and included every-
thing from pocket-handkerchiefs to rolls of
silk. On the day of the case, even on the
way to the court, my clients continued to
pour into my ear: “Oh,. Mister Lawyer, you
win da case and we give you the loveliest
silk pyjamas, four pair! Oh, so lovely! And
the silk shirts if you win da case,. Mister
Lawyer.” Of course, when a verdict was
returned in their favor, they. hated to part
up even the attorney and client costs, and
only did it after loud lamentations. But,
having been there before, I wasn’t dis-
appointed.
The Australian University attendance
records for 1924 have just made a late
appearance, and they show a further falling-
away in the aggregate. The number of
students was as follows: —
1922. 1924.
Sydney ~ .. 3005 2688
Melbourne .. .. 2660 2423
Adelaide .. •• 1998 2017
Brisbane .. .. 405 447
Perth .• .. 336 377
Hobart .. .. 166 176
For the Sta e which is a poor fourth in the
way of population, S.A.’s record is strikingly
high—in fact, there is nothing else like it.
A report which should have some interest
for Sydney ratepayers has been published in
London. It tells of the first year’s opera-
rions of the Commission of three appointed
by the Government to supersede the West
Ham Board of Guardians. These gentle-
men had made the pace so hot in distributing
poor relief, and struck such immense rates
to raise the money for their orgy of corrup-
tion, that abolition became imperative. The
Commission has ceased borrowing, has paid
off a big deficit and reduced rates, and the
neighborhood begins to smell less like a
bonemill.
“Frinigga”: Uncle Sam doesn’t allow his
children to learn a different sort of English
from the stage. A New York theatre has
lately put up Barrie’s famous one-act play,
but was careful to advertise it (without
being nastily particular as to the current
rate of exchange) as “The Twelve-pound
(60-dollar) Look.”


The Thorough Cleaning
of Artificial Teeth
is an Important Factor to Good Health
The “Bruy” Dental Plate
brush is constructed to
clean every part.
It is shaped to fit round
the inside of the plate
and under the suc-
tion. It cleans those
difficult crevices
on top of the
plate with ease.
No back to col-
lect impurities.
Hygienic and
serviceable.
e
PRICE
3/9
Post Free
Send either
postal note
or stamps.
Actual size,
64 inches long.
Guarantee satis-
faction or m*ney
refunded any time
within three months.
BRUV BRUSHES,
294 Little Collins St., Melb.
UNIQUE NOVELTY.
PENCIL-PENKNIFE COMBINATION, pro-
pelling and repelling pencil, with concealed
I enkmfe at rear. Xylonite finished in six colors,
each, or 16/- per dozen.
Will sell at sight at 2/6 each.
AUSTRALASIAN MERCANTILE
COMPANY, LTD.,
157 CLARENCE STREET, CITY.
Amusements.
S Y D N E Y’S CHIEF THEATRES^
J. C. WILLIAMSON, LTD., present
HER MAJESTY’S: ROSE MARIE.
CRITERION: COBRA.
ROYAL: PIRATES OF PENZANCE.
PALACE: HULLO, HEALO!
SYDNEY’S BEST SHOWS.
Direction Sir Benjamin Fuller & Mr. John Fuller.
ST. JAMES: JACK & THE BEANSTALK
FULLERS’ THEATRE:
FULLERS’ VAUDEVILLE.
RICKARDS’ TIVOLI THEATRES.
Lessees: Harry Rickards’ Tivoli Theatres, Ltd.
MELBOURNE and SYDNEY.
•’'VICE EVERY DAY—2.3O and 8.
CELEBRITY VAUDEVILLE.
The World's Best.
J.
C. W ILL
MELBOURNE
lA3IS O N, LTD.,
ATTRACTIONS.
HIS 3IA JESTY’S:
COMMENCING SATURDAY NEXT.
KISSING TIME.
KING’S THEATRE:
THE LAST OF 3IRS. CHEYNEY.
BIJOU THEATRE, MELBOURNE
Twice Daily, 2.30 and 8.
GEORGE WALLACE REVUE CO.
Popular Prices. Plan Cen. 3251.
PRINCESS THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
The Theatre Beautiful.
Sir BENJAMIN FULLER and JOHN FULLER
present
PUSS IN ROOTS,
London s Greatest Fairy Pantomime.
Every Evening. Matinees Dailv.
Plan at Glen’s.
Reserved Seats 7/- plus tax. Matinees 5/- plus tax.
Children half-price to all parts.
ATHENAEUM THEATRE,
3IELBOURNE.
Proprietor: Frank Talbot Pty. Ltd
Lessee: E. J. Carroll
EVERY EVENING AT 8.15.
E. J. CARROLL presents
THE GHOST TRAIN.
T,. LAUGHABLE COMEDY AVITH A THRILL.
layed by E. J. Carroll’s London Comedy Company.
MAJESTIC THEATRE, 3IELBOURNE.
Everyone will want to see the famous police do<r
RIN-TIN-TIN in
THE NIGHT CRY.
JOHN HARRON and JUNE MARLOAVE have
excellent parts.
Rin-tin-tin saves his master’s baby from the
claws of a gigantic condor.
Box Plan at Allan’s & Theatre. ’Phone 7076 & 7790.
H OY T ’ s D E LUXE THEATRE
3IELBOURNE. ’
MILTON SILLS in
MEN OF STEEL
ALSO
Peter B. Kyne’s
WAR PAINT,
with PAULINE STARKE and TIM McCOY.
Prices as usual.
For Sale.
LOR SALE—DRILLING PLANT, com-
i. P ,ete » Combination (Standard and liotarvl
Ri«' capable of drilling to 4500 feet Full
particulars obtainable from ’ n I
H. C. MACFIE & CO
Box 1787 K, G.P.0., Sydney.
b
-<7
The Purity of
amami
SHAMPOOS
is GUARANTEED by the
LONDON INSTITUTE of
HYGIENE.
Amami is the beauty shampoo in
almost universal use. Its purity
and efficacy are guaranteed by no
less an authority than the British
Institute of Hygiene. Blending 47
ingredients, and including the
special Lemon Juice Rinsing
Powder, Amami is the perfect
tonic- treatment for your hair.
lunom niffyff
You can buy Amami at any Chemist’s,
Hairdresser’s or big Store. No. 1 for Dark
Hair, No. 5 for Fair Hair. 9d. each, com-
plete with Lemon Rinsing Powder.
a
5
SI
Qs
H
The morning shave is never a trial if you use a PLUM,
the razor that shaves close, clean and sweetly smooth,
no matter how wiry your beard, however tender your
skin.
Black Vulcanite Handle . . 12/6 each.
Xylonite Ivory Grain Handle 15/6 „
Real Ivory Handle .. .. 21/- „
Satin-lined Double Case free with pair of razors.
Seven Hay PLUM Razor Sets:—
Black 85/-; Xylo, 100/-; Ivory 140/-
per set of 7 Razors.
Each razor set ready for use and guaranteed and keDt
m order for two years free of charge.
PLUM Razors are supplied in two widths ; fin. and Sin.
Post-paid Prices
PLUM Razor Strops, ready for use, 10/6, 12/6, 16/6
each. Post Free.
CRAIG AND AITKEN
If any illustration in THE BULLETIN takes your fancy, write
to the MANAGER, who will quote you price for the original.
ē
Models:
JJ f /JlOh.p., 20/60h.p.,
80/DQh.p. and 3-litre.
Fitted, with Four-wheel Brakes.
Authorised Dealers:
WILLIAMS BROS., Ltd.,
255-259 Elizabeth Street,
SYDNEY,
British Cars for |
British People •
The new Sunbeam three-litre sporting
car is the finest ever produced. It
embodies all the experience in engine
design and chassis construction which
has made Sunbeam cars supreme in the
racing world. Its body work is typical
of Sunbeam easy luxury and fine
appearance, and it comes as a worthy
addition to the fine range of touring
models whicft are already famous for
their inimitable performance and re-
liability.
THE SUPREME
Sunbeam
Further particulars are available from
THE SUNBEAM MOTOR CAR CO. LTD,
Export Department, 12 Princes Street,
Hanover Square, London, W.l.
Cable Address: “Supemoco, London
Vorka, Wolverhampton.
Answers to Correspondents.
No notice (except of a hostile character) will be
taken of communications insufficiently stamped.
Name and address must appear on the MS. No
liability is undertaken re contributions volun-
tarily submitted; and no MS. will be returned
unless stamps accompany.
fallacy: Sorry, but if it wasn’t printed,
space couldn’t be found for it. Impossible to refer
here to every offered contribution... .W.W.L.:
Interest too 10ca1... .W.L.T.: Not quite smooth
enough. .. .James A. L.: Very mixed. It’s a dreadful
descent, for instance, from the opening of the third
stanza to “The final tramcars nimble and are still”
of the third.., .Omega: Not much hope until you can
brighten them up R.W.T.: The tender tritie died
in our arms.... Fan: Sorry to hear that you “toss
away Love’s proffered lips.” Very careless of you.
. ...R.McA.: Just rough-hewn lengths of prose
rhymed.... G. 8.: Thanks for the information that
the sun sets in the west.... Val C.: Two lines will
be enough:—
And we may find the undiscovered goal
When this egg, Man, has hatched its inner soul.
. ...M.L.F.: Weak.... J.8.T.: Story gave us hope,
but petered out... .L.R.8.: “After Rain” is soggy
verse. .. .C.8.H.: No jingle for your jingle.. . .Reg
B.: They hesitated on the edge of the w.p.b.; then
they took the plunge... .H.H.: Unsuitable....
A. : Bendigo verses left us dazed... .Pat: Here’s
a touch of your poetic palsy:—
We grasp the real and get ephemeral
The cussedness of things in general.
We see round men squeezed in square holes,
Like trees that have abnormal boles;
And square men round holes occupy—
It makes a man to grieve and sigh.
....Rosa D.; Your seasonal verse lacks seasoning.
lvy G.: The little fancy is too frail to stand
the gustiness of some lines S.P.C.: Untidy stuff.
... .Dolly D.: The baby verse cries itself to sleepi....
M.Iv.P.: Work shows a marked improvement. The
yarn might do elsewhere; but there was no need
for the tragedy when pulling the communication
cord would have brought the train to a stop....
Ringaroi: The Lothario makes love to his friend’s
wife by talking of eunuchs, and the wife responds
with a reference to Tarquin. We don’t believe it.
... .W.E.L.: Yarn fades away to a shadow at the
end. .. .L.C.L.H.: One a cheerless ditty and the other
merely a newspaper article A.H.8.: Trite and
obviously manufactured... .M.T.: Such rhymes as
“morn-dawn” “blights-might” and “them-men” would
kill much bettor ideas A.D.A.8.: Fails to grip.
. ...Len G.: The postage cost fourpence, and w’e
didn't care tuppence for it. .. .G.J. (Wanganui) : Not
even all the Italian thrown in makes it a story....
D.G.H.: When you started to talk about your wasted
years we guessed you were 19... .Margery B.: “The
Secret Room,” as far as ideas are concerned, is
unfurnished. The other a mere confusion of jerky
phrases... .Preston: The sun has gone down on your
froth... .W.G.8.: Might be improved; in one line
it trips over its spare feet Cam D.: With wild
astonishment you tell us the old truth that the fall
of many a man is due to a slip of a girl. .. .Guy F.:
Too slight... .Preston: Rupert Brooke built himself
a monument, not a tomb. His ghost would haunt
you if we allowed you to say that about his verse.
. ...E.W.S.: To copy your inimitable style, your
verse was doomed to be ’turned from the ’ginning.
. ...A.A.T.: For 14, very promising; and it’s oidy
natural that, at that age, you should regret the pass-
ing of your youth... .E.M.: The refrain is intriguing.
....Geof M.: The story would have been helped by
a word or so about the hurt being intensified by Tom
having been made a laughing stock before the girl.
. ...G.L.M.: There’s a wide gulf between the risque
yarn that is excusable because of its wit and the
one that is plain dirt K.E.K.: “Rain” got us
wet... .G.P.S.: We’ve no time for Theadoration... .
Gwladvs C.: You wed your, unusual name to a trite
verse. ... Jas. W.: Might be made right; but some
of the syllables suggest a mob of women rushing a
bargain sale... .B.B.: He deserved to be “scaled,”
anyway... .J.D.: There is poignant tragedy in
“The Dying Race”:—
An old man of sixty long years,
With a gaunt black face lin’d by tears,
Deserted, alone, his race has gone.
Once he had ruled these lands,
Now he is almost liv’ng in bands
Surround’d by white foreigners, ’lone.
He watches these gay folks; distant
They are. No more hears he the chant.
All seems so unreal to him, he dreams.
He can’t believe his tribe’s no more.
Ah, too true! He now sees the bright beams
Of color’d gowns. Laying down, he is no more.
C.McE.: The story runs to heroics. .. .J.F.M.:
Terrible. .. .H.R.M.: Brevity is the soul ot wit.
Breathlessness isn't E.T. (Bowen): Splurge about
Syd Smith rejected Nell G.: Try a weekly with
a children’s corner. . . .J.S.D.: Your words breed like
rabbits; there’s matter for a much shorter story
over-run by them R.C.: The dog that delivered
the cattle and brought back the cheque in his mouth
is an amazing enough circumstance; but what about
the man who tried to deliver a cheque like that >....
A.R.: Still fails; climax insufficiently interesting...!
F. 8.: Not enough pabulum in “On Diet” M.H.:
Passed to Mirror Ashton M. : Promising....
Autolycus: It’s brightly done; but not Bulletin
matter C.A.T.: Room for the end of it:—
You crawling wretch, the squatter said,
In words that were not kind,
You’d pollute the ground, where she stood
And wreck her peace of mind.
Pack up your swag before I blow
Your head into damnation;
I do not want a crawling cur
Like you on the station.
I packed my swag up pretty quick
I seen I’d get no quarter.
That was the last I seen of him,
Or Liz, the Squatter’s daughter.
John McC.: Fearfully rough on Walsh and John
son.... Minnie M.: Not bad; but the bush fire that
burns up 22 stanzas has no chance... .Gil D.: Your
screed leaves it uncertain whether your shady friends
are horsebreakers or housebreakers. Wish you’d make
up your mind. .. .H.J.A.C.: You pile on'the agony
too much... .Ray L. G.: Is it really a story? We took
it for an auditor’s report.. . .A.F.0.: What’s all thD
about a meticulously shut gate at Westham Camp
and electric trains in Weymouth ? Enid H • Thev
fail; but try again. '' }
TO AUTISTIC (AND INARTISTIC)
CORRESPONDENTS.
B. : lour Binghi looks like a Basuto... .R.E.:
Crayon studies of York fired out H.N.C.: Is "the
object beside the lady her husband or a pillar-box?
. ...T.T.: The money you waste In stamps would
buy a capital book on black-and-white sketching
E.8.A.; Half-tone study too streaky; line drawing
merely shaky scratches... .W.D.: You must have
leained your ideas about perspective during an
earthquake K.F.S.: Bookie-and-punter wrangle
humorless... .W.D. (Clare) : Give us something alive
not artistic corpses... .J.P.T.. : The “Missing Sparrow”’
hadnt a feather to fly with... .G.H.N.; Send it to
Lazzarini or Lane.


■
; ■
% #
i i
m
■
■
m
mm
i
MB
m wmm
7T7777~
1 m
m
■ ■■ ■ ■ • > ■
■■ h ■■ ' "'
7: •
mm m i mmmm i g mmmmm
4
-
aMUt
JKftNN
[/
• -
si'
u
u
11
H
-vt}
>,
m
tkf
' > 'U
■■ •■..
■
£
m
J
The Preference /
of Good Judgment;
Citroen
Agents:
Marquette Motors, Ltd.,
121-131 Flinders St., Sydney.
Maugban-Thiem Motor Co.,
185-189 Pulteney Street,
Adelaide.
Preston Motors Pty., Ltd.,
114-122 Franklin St., Melb.
Gilberts, Ltd.,
896 Hay St., Perth.
Brisbane Equipment Co. t
45 3 Ann Street, Brisbane.
Gormack & Pettigrew,
Invercargill and Gore, N.Z.
Citroen Motors, Ltd.,
25 Stuart St., Dunedin, N.Z.
CONSIDER the advantages that Citroen offers: amazing
economy, welcome driving comfort, surprisingly low cost of
operation—qualities that every motorist desires. And such effici-
ency that the longest journeys can confidently be undertaken. No
wonder, then, that ‘‘you see them everywhere”—visible evidence
of the increasing preference for the world’s economy car. Your
local dealer will be pleased to give you an obligation-free
demonstration of Citroen.
€ II nr ii? @ ! INI
THE WORLD’S ECONOMY CAR
Factory Distributors:
W. A. CROWLE, LTD.,
Crowle House, Castlereagh Street,
Sydney.


Ideal -Huts for
Shearers
By building accommodation quarters for
your Rural Workers completely with
“FIBROLITE” Asbestos Cement Sheets, you
will ensure maximum durability and fire
safety at the minimum of cost.
•• FIBROLITE ” is a fire retardant, white ant
proof, vermin proof and permanently durable buil-
ding material for exterior and interior walls and
ceilings. Supplied in big sturdy building sheets
in 36 handy stock sizes, it is easily and quickly
erected. Waste is eliminated. Labour costs are
reduced to bedrock. No painting is required
And, “FIBROLITE” costs less than weather-
boards and lining boards.
IVrite for Free Catalogue “B ”
James Hardie & Coy c Ltd.
Cnr. York & Wynyard Streets, Sydney.
A.M.P. Bldgs. Queen Street, Brisbane.
581-83 Little Collins Street, Melbourne, f
FIBROLITE
ASBESTOS-CEMENT SHEETS
r
mam
Get the Skins
That is the first necessity. But the last essential is
not least. It is most important with your
RABBIT, FOX, KANGAROO and all other
skins. Get top values for them.
SEND YOUR CONSIGNMENTS TO
WINCHCOMBE, CARSON
LTD.
Salesmen,
SYDNEY OR BRISBANE.
They are live, reliable selling agents, and sell on
commission only. They make it their sole business
to secure top market prices for all clients.
[3
Death to
Fues AND
■#:
fty&AKT
AntsJ
ERHWiATtt
life- fly <& ant
.-/•
XTERMINATOR
ia
BBSS AGENTS:- H
DUERDIH & SAINSBURY LTD
Empty contents
of tin on a piece
of moistened flannel
and place on a dish
where flies, etc., are
numerous.
Kills
Flies, Fleas,
Cockroaches,
Borer, Ants,
Bedbugs, etc.
RUPTURE.
A FREE TRIAL.
If you are troubled with the complaint, write us and
senc * y°u our catalogue, fully describing our
?£ TEN J Alß i APPLIANCE.
1 his appliance does away with all cumbersome
springs, giving a feeling of ease and comfort from the
first day s use. *t is the most scientific appliance yet
invented for this complaint. It will hold a rupture
nrmly and comfortably under ail conditions.
To prove what we state
WE OFFER TO SEND IT TO YOU
ON A FREE TRIAL.
If it » not satisfactory we do not expect you to keep
it, and the trial costs you nothing. It is suitable for
r;caXran' d CU dren ’ and the P" ce is within
ILLUSTRATED CATALOGUE
posted free anywhere.
THE WINSLOW CO.
104 Queen Street, Melbourne, Vie.
TUDOR
ACCUMULATORS
for Reliability and Long Life.
Australasian Office—
TUDOR ACCUMULATOR CO., LTD.,
Culwulla Chambers, Castlereagh Street, SYDNEY.
ĕ
“CLYDE
BATTERIES”
For RADIO, MOTOR-CARS AND
COUNTRY HOME LIGHTING.
THE CLYDE ENGINEERING COMPANY, Ltd.,
Granville; and Goulburn Street, Sydney, N.S.W.
TIPPED
or PLAIN
m
&
ms
mm
m
V
etd De cßeszke
—of course ”
You can now smoke
De Reszkes every day
YouVe always wanted to smoke nothing but the
best. Now you can satisfy that healthy desire by
buying the new De Reszke Virginias at ten for
ninepence.
Every cigarette that bears the name DE RESZKE
must needs be the very best in its class; other-
wise the " goodwill ” value of the name —at
present beyond compute would be endangered.
That is your guarantee that the new De Reszke
Virginias will always preserve their present high
quality.
Ask your tobacconist for them early to-day—before
his stocks exhausted.
(popularly pronounced " DE RES-KEY”)
Virginias
TWENTY FOR ONE AND SIX
In 10‘s, 20’s, }o’s and 100’s
J. MILLHOFF 8C CO. LTD., 86, PICCADILLY, LONDON, W.l
Agents for N. Ss. Wales: DALGETY A (JUMi’ANY LTD.
Business, Robbery, etc.
“C.Q.” : Has any statistician counted the
cost to Australian industry of the common
house-fly? While flapping myself, I am
watching a dozen men engaged digging a
drain. They spend half their time flapping,
too. A recent visitor remarked in a book
that so bad were the flies in this country
that every man, woman and child wore veils.
He was a liar, but until the pest is sup-
pressed, as it could be, it is a pity his lie
isn’t true.
* * * *
“A.8.W.”: Commissioner Clapp has
declared war on the bush kids who trespass
on railway property and yell "Piper ! Piper !”
as passenger trains pass. Moreover he is
out to put the kibosh on the track gangs
who holler for free literature. Nevertheless
passengers will doubtless continue to heave
newspapers through the windows at suppli-
ants, be they ever so distant or mute. The
half-century-old habit (and not such a bad
one either) cannot be broken by a gazetted
railway order and a railway boundary fence.
* * * *
“Nikko” : The most expressive trade title
I ever noted was over a small bookshop in
Wanganui (M.L.), which bore the name
“A. -Worm.”
* * * *
“Moreton” : Members of Queensland’s Royal
National Association are on a good wicket.
For 30s. a year a member is entitled to
tickets for himself and lady friends, not only
for every day of the Royal Show, but for
all entertainments held at the Exhibition,
including all the big cricket- and football-
matches and the speedway meetings. The
speedway is now attracting attendances up
to 35,000 —mostly deadheads. A count in
the grandstands the other night revealed
only 4000 paying customers out of 9000. An
attempt made at the annual association
meeting to raise the membership fee was
turned down by members with great enthu-
siasm, but the committee decided to stop
the issue of duplicate tickets on the pre-
tence that the originals had been lost, and to
cut down the number of complimentaries.
* * * J * -v.
“Naklioda” : Professor Griffith Taylor said
the other day that whereas the agricul-
turist in China earns Is. a day, the Chinese
market-gardener in Australia frequently
makes £7OO a year. When Ah Pong reaches
that figure it is by getting long hours for
far less than the basic wage out of his
brethren, and the way is clearly explained—
in a large number of cases, at any rate.
Opium. Once he holds the golden key to
the terrestrial paradise he can make what
terms he likes, and no doubt £7OO is an
easy figure then.
* * * *
“G.M.”: “Sturt” (B. 20/l/’27) is in error
in his statement that the Paringa-Renmark
Bridge is the only one between Murray
Bridge and Swan Hill. The Tooleybuck
Bridge has been open for traffic for two
' years. Two more bridges under construc-
tion in the Mildura district will be finished
this year, and the Robinvale-Euston Bridge
next year. All three will take rail as well
as road traffic.
“I believe Donald came prutty near bein’
buried alive.”
“Aye, ’twas lucky he had a motor funeral.
He thocht he heard a taxi-meter ticking.”
“Mulyan” : There seems to be a big local
industry howling for a start in the vast
quantities of copi or gypsum—the substance
used for making plaster-of-paris, for break-
ing up clayey soils, and other purposes—
scattered about the north-western parts of
N.S.W. In places there are huge mounds
and ridges of it, some of them being 15ft.
high, several chains wide and miles long.
It was used by black brother on the Darling
as a pigment and for making widows’ caps.
The north-westerners use for clearing
muddy water, the stuff being picked up on the
surface about the runs.
* * * *
“Crojack”: There is pathos in the struggle
of the windjammers to keep their flags flying
in the Pacific. The Forest Dream was sold
recently under under an order of the Court.
A sister ship, the Forest Pride, is 'now on
her way to Australia with timber from the
Pacific Coast; another sister is the Forest
Friend. All are five-masters, built at Aber-
deen (U.S.A.). (Maybe that was the Aber-
deen referred to in Brady’s “McFie of Aber-
deen.” He seemed more Yankee than Scotch.)
The Pacific Coast is the last haven of the
windjammers. At Oakland and Seattle they
are allowed to lie idle for the most part,
being used only once a year for salmon pack
ing. But even these light duties are becom-
ing too arduous for some of the ex-clippers,
and one of them, the Star of Chile, has been
sold by the Alaska Packing Co. to become a
hulk at San Pedro. As the Coalinga she
used to run to Sydney. But she’ll never
sight South Head again.
* * * *
“C. Coral”: The 31 native-owned boats
(cutters and luggers) belonging to the Torres
Strait islands brought into Thursday
Island in 1925 marine produce to the value
of £19,842. This is a decrease of £649 on
the previous year’s working, but the fall
is due to lower price of shell, not to any
slacking-off in the boats’ work. The popu-
lation of the islands now stands at 3040;
during 1925 there were 39 deaths and 101
births, a pretty good indication that the
islander is not dying out.


J
■n?.
e
Sole World
Exporters
Devonshire
House,
Piccadilly,
London, W.l,
ENGLAND.
For
Particulars of new
models consult
Roomy bodies, Right-hand Gear
Change, a Four Speed Gear Box,
Four-Wheel Brakes, High Quality
in every detail, and unlimited
capacity for hard work are Hillman
features.
WEYMOUTH MOTORS,
Limited,
ADELAIDE.
ENGLISH MOTORS,
Limited,
MELBOURNE.
R. DICKSON & CO.,
Limited,
PERTH.
GARRATTS,
Limited,
SYDNEY.
ters Voice
HisMM;
m
4927
February
a
Selections from
February Supplement
NOW ON SALE.
In this latest supplement there is a wide range of musical
numbers that will fill the hours with gladness. They prove
conclusively the supremacy of “His Master’s Voice” Records.
Ask your dealer for a copy or write us direct.
Greatest Artists—New Electrical Recording—Silent Surface.
Wilhelm Backhaus.
In his third new process record the great pianist gives us tour
Etudes and one Prelude by Chopin. Backhaus’ all-Chopin Recitals
in Sydney and Melbourne amply demonstrated that he is a wonderful
interpreter of the emotional and dramatic music of the great com-
poser. The sweeping arpeggios of the C Major Study and the
mighty chords of the “Revolutionary” Study are reproduced with
amazing effect.
12in. Red, 10/6.
D 8928 —(a) Prelude in G Major, (b) Study in C Major .. Chopin
(c) Chromatic Study in A Minor Chopin
(a) Revolutionary Study Chopin
(b) Study in F Major Chopin
Chaliapin.
The superb re-recording of one of Chaliapin’s greatest records
makes a very memorable impression, for not only his singing but
also the orchestral and choral accompaniments are most realistically
reproduced.
12in. Red, 10/6.
D 8934 —Boris Godounov—Farewell of Boris.
Boris Godounov—Death of Boris.
Royal Opera Orchestra.
This is the first of a series of records made by the Royal
Opera Orchestra of Covent Garden, conducted by Eugene Goossens.
The two marches need no introduction to the public, whilst the
orchestral reproduction, which is as fine as could possibly be
achieved, offers for the first time an orchestral record of the
highest standard at a popular price.
12in. Plum, 6/«
C 1279 —Marche Hongroise Berlioz
Marche Militaire • Schubert
Granforte-Hislop.
The great Italian Baritone, who made such a splendid impression
in Australia during 1924 Grand Opera Season, sings two well-known
duets reproduced for the first time by electrical recording. He is
supported by Joseph Hislop, the eminent. English tenor, who will
visit Australia this year. One of the features of this great recording
is the wonderful volume of the orchestral accompaniment.
12in. Red, 10/6.
D 8939 —Boheme, O Mimi tu piu.
lorza del Destino, “Solenne in quest’ora.”
1
' v" :
m
WB ■
Marion Talley,
The vocal sensation of 1926, who at the
age of eighteen made her debut at the New
York Metropolitan in February, 1926.
Although in receipt of a very modest salary,
she created such a sensation within a short
time, that last January the Metropolitan
Opera voluntarily cancelled her old contract
and offered her a fee of £750 per perform-
ance.
Marion Talley’s Records:
DB936—“Barber of Seville”—Una
voce poco fa.
“R'igoletto-—Caro Nome . .. 10/6
DA783—“Home, Sweet Home (Bishop).
Cornin’ Thro’ the Rye (Old
Scotch Air) .... 7/6
His Masters voice
“Ilis Master’s Voice,” Registered
Trade-mark.
“Gramophone,” Registered Trade-mark.
Zimbalist.
This favorite violinist makes this month his debut in Electrical
recording. He plays very charmingly a Persian Song by Glinka
and one of Chopin’s most melodious waltzes. This record should
be of great interest to music lovers, because the artist will make
his first tour of Australia this year.
lOin. Red, 7/6,
DA7BB—Persian Song Glinka
Waltz in G Flat; Op. 70, No. 1 Chopin
Herbert Dawson (Organ).
Herbert Dawson’s organ records have made quite a sensation
during the last few months, and he adds another fine disc this
month, achieving a very magnificent effect in the “Hallelujah
Chorus” from the “Messiah” and the equally popular “Wedding
March” by Mendelssohn.
12in. Plum, 6/-
Cl27l—Hallelujah Chorus (the “Messiah”) Handel
Wedding March Mendelssohn
Symphony Orchestra.
Many Gramophone enthusiasts who have in their collection the
recently made wonderful Wagnerian Records of “Ride of the
Valkyries,” “The Funeral March,” “Prelude to Tristan” and others
will be delighted with the “Entrance of the Gods” from “Rhine-
gold,” which entirely eclipses these records.
12in. Black, 8/-
Dlll7 —“The Rhinegold”—Entrance of the Gods into
Valhalla—Parts 1 and 2 Wagner
The Gramophone Co., Ltd.
163 Pitt Street, Sydney.


Travellers Should
Carry Cuticura
Daily use of the Soap and Oint-
ment removes the dust and grime
of travel, allays irritation, redness
and roughness of the face and
hands and keeps the skin soft and
clear under all conditions of ex-
posure. Cuticura Talcum is fra-
grant, cooling and refreshing, an
ideal toilet powder,
Soap ls. t Talcum Is. 3d..Ointment Is. and
2s. For sample Soap and Ointment ad-
dress: “R.Towns & Co., Sydney, N.S. W.”
UMF** Cuticura Shaving Stick Is. 6d.
Built with strong
Seams, two Breast
Pockets with flaps.
Patterns Plain Blue,
Blue with White or
Black stripe. Washes
well. State size.
The
“Stronghold”
Work Shirt
Our Biggest
Work Shot
Value
10/6
Three for 30/-
Mail to Desk "SB”
P I K
BROTHERS LT
In St., Brisbane
Wo
ė
• *
7'o be healthu
drink
the finest
tonic food
!n 4 sizes drink
ofall Chemists
and Stores
mmniiinmit
ALL AUSTRALIANS visiting London
should read the British Australian
and New Zealander, 6d. weekly—an illus-
trated paper containing mail and cable news
from Australia and news of Australians in
Europe and at home. Australians are cordi-
ally invited to visit the British Australian
and New Zealander Reading-room at the
Offices, 414-17 Australia House, Strand,
London, WC.2, where they can see the home
papers, meet their friends, use the telephone
and obtain information without charge.
Copies of the paper and general information
can be obtained at the Australian Advertis-
ing Agency, Ltd.. 350 George Street, Sydney;
or 434 Collins Street, Melbourne.
THE
WOMAN’S MIRROR
Published Every Tuesday
Is the most popular 64-page j
woman’s paper published in
the Commonwealth. It features
everything a woman ought to
know. Once you read it you
will never be without it.
Its up-to-date weekly pattern
is free for the asking.
Published by
The Bulletin Newspaper Co.,
214 George Street, Sydney.
QN
BANK
THE QUEENSLAND NATIONAL BANK, LIMITED.
Incorporated under the Companies Act 1863. Established 1872.
Directors—A. C. Luya, Esq., Chairman; James Love, Esq.; W. H. Hart, Esa •
M. J. Ryan, Esq.; D. W. Macdonald, Esq.
General Manager—M. G. HAYMEN.
HEAD OFFICE . . . . . . BRISBANE
With offices at London, Canberra (Federal Territory), Melbourne, Sydney, and
94 branches in Queensland and Northern Rivers, N. S. Wales, also representation
through the leading Banking Institutions covering Australasia and the World, thi
Bank offers the fullest facilities for the transaction of all general banking business 1
r
CJ/ie
‘NATIONAL BANK
QjfMS/z&fasicr ZJ/ffifec/
CAPITAL PAID UP
Reserve Fund
//2 Me &us/hess-
7ofa/ (2sse?s isv 19/&
° * ~ J 926
£4000,000
£2410,000
£14.575,697
£40.706,017.
The Bank is widely represented directly and by
Agents throughout the country districts of Australia,
and has Offices in all the Capital Cities*
Its large capital and deposit resources place it in a
position to assist the development of the various
industries of the Commonwealth. In rural areas the
great bulk of its business is connected with the farming
and grazing interests*
Full facilities are provided. for the transaction of
local and overseas banking business.
e
e
POLIS HES—PRESERVES—PREVENTS CRACKS
BOSTOCK’S Shoe Creams are made in all
principal shades, and especially noted for the
New Shade of Bois-de-Rose, Putty, Sunburn
and Oak.
Price 6 d. per tithe. Obtainable Everywhere.
<®3i4
CAUSTIC SODA
(E LECTROLYTIC)
LIQUID— 32 per cent. Na2o.
POWDERED-98 per cent. NaOH.
SULPHURIC ACID—I.B3 s.g.
SULPHURIC ACID, C.P.—
Guaranteed chemically pure
by analysis.
HYDROCHLORIC AClD—
(Muriatic) Commercial, 33%
HYDROCHLORIC ACID, C.P.
Guaranteed chemically pure
by analysis.
CARBON TETRA CHLORIDE.
REFINED CHILEAN SALT-
PETRE.
SULPHUR MONOCHLORIDE.
ZINC CHLORIDE.
SULPHATE OF IRON.
POWDERED SULPHUR.
PHOSPHORIC ACID, 70ft
PHOSPHATIC COMPOUNDS.
CONCENTRATED SOLDER-
ING AND TINNING FLUXES.
LIQUID CHLORINE
100 per cent, pure Anhydrous
In 100, 150 and 20001 b. Containers.
SODIUM HYPOCHLORITE
MANUFACTURED EY
THE MOUNT LYELL CHEMICAL WORKS,
Collins House, 381 Little Collins Street, Melbourne.
WORKS: YARRAVITxLE. VICTORIA.
“Topee”: I can corroborate “Canar” (B.
13/l/’27) as to the queer appointments
made during the military occupation of Ger-
man New Guinea. Being a qualified dis-
penser, I was made a Government inter-
preter ; I know no German. On the other
hand, my cobber, a teacher of languages, who
was so astigmatic that he only got past the
doctor on a faked eye-test, received a job
as chainman in the Survey Department.
That well-known Wellington (M.L.) iden-
tity the Rev. Herman Van Staveren will
have a jubilee this year ; it is 50 years since
lie arrived, a young man of 28, to take
charge of the Wellington Hebrew congrega-
tion. In spite of his many and earnest
charitable activities, the only moderate salary
a small congregation could give him and a
large family—four sons and nine daughters
-—the minister, gifted with the financial
ability of his race, has prospered materially;
he is interested in, amongst other things,
the Fullers’ Maoriland activities.
“Old Hand” : When Vic. Parliament goes
back to its old home in Spring-street there
are a few of its departed members whose
memories it should keep green by setting
busts of them beside that of Deakin, which
will be transferred from the temporary build-
ing at the Exhibition. Higinbotliam, Berry,
Service, Gillies, Turner and Bent are a few.
Turner’s work in the six years before Federa-
tion —when several bridges from old conser-
vatism to modern progress were built —has
never been recognised, and there is now a
disposition to make up for the neglect.
W.A. has had 13 Premiers since it acquired
responsible government in 1890 and nine
of them are still on deck. The departed are
John Forrest (1891-1900) ; George Leake,
who succeeded the big man; Harry Daglish
(1904-05) and Frank Wilson. Of the others
A. E. Morgans dates back to 1901, though his
Premiership was only a matter of weeks, and
Walter James, K.C., to 1902. Rason and
Newton Moore stayed in England after
Agent-Generailing there.
“R.R.”: Mixed motor loads? There is
a daily service on the east coast of the
South Island (M.L.) between Parnassus
and Blenheim, a distance of about 150 miles.
I’ve just returned from a trip thereby, and
this is what our ordinary five-seater carried:
Three passengers, two bicycles, a racing-
sulky, a sugar-bag containing live ducks, a
collie pup in a crate, a sackful of rabbit-
skins, three huge milk-cans, a case of butter
fat, a tent, four suitcases and a box of
cartridges, the last too heavy for one man
to lift. Besides this mixed cargo we delivered
newspapers and loaves of bread along the
route, and at one farmer’s gate we dropped
the latest thing in ladies’ hats.
The appeal against the registration of the
new Permanent and Casual Wharf Laborers’
Union hadn’t gone far before the discovery
was made that it was non-political and had
something in its constitution against strikes-
Judge Beeby seemed to have his worst sus-
picions aroused at once. In particular, he
wondered if this was the kind of union whose
members “could be compelled in a coxirt of
law to carry out their obligations under the
Act.” It is hard to say. What kind of
union is ever compelled to carry out its
obligations under any Act?
“Muggins, Jun.”: Many Aussies who
visited the late Rupert Clarke in London met
Sir James Calder, who lived close enough to
the baronet to swap opinions concerning
snails and cabbages over the back fence.
Calder has just arrived in Australia to inves-
tigate the possibility of manufacturing motor
spirit from molasses. He is -well up in the
whisky-distillery business of the Cold Coun-
try, and during the war was Controller of
Timber Supplies.
Tom Gilchrist, the new clerk of the Vic.
House of Landlords, who succeeds 11. H.
Newton, began on the Argus and became
the political and departmental man. For a
few years he was an assistant sec. on the
Railway Standing Committee. A slump
came, and he returned to the Argus. The
Public Service, however, had got into his
blood, and he drifted back via Hansard in
1901. This time he soon got the secretary-
ship to the Railway Committee; thence came
promotion to the job of Clerk-Assistant to
the Assembly, and now the snug Council job.
He has earned every halfpenny the State has
ever given him, and has saved it thousands
by his shrewdness on the Railway Com-
mittee which has also been a sort of Public
Works Committee.
The Russian official attitude towards
motor-cars seems to be an improvement even
on the Sydney City Council’s. A factory
has started making cars, and the whole out-
put to date has been taken by the Soviet
Government. The rest of the country
stumbles about in pre-revolution ’buses tied
up with wire. Private cars—if anything is
really private in Russia —are compelled to
carry one white headlight and a green tail-
light to distinguish them from the commis-
sars’ machines, which display one white and
one red headlight. The object of this differ-
ence is not to keep a check on the joy-riding
of the commissars and their wives, but to
ensure that proper respect is being paid
to the people’s representatives. When a
white and a red light are seen approaching
the ordinary common or garden Communist
pulls into the ditch.
“Oxmead”: W.A. ex-Premier and Opposi-
tion-leader Jimmy Mitchell is one of the
very few men in Australia who graduated
for politics among the ledgers and over-
drafts of a country bank. Certainly Mitchell
was always a stock-raiser and farmer as a
side-line, but he had been 20 years in the
Western Australian Bank before Northam,
where he was manager, asked to be allowed
to send him to Parliament. That was in
1905 and the town has been constant to him
ever since. Jimmy, who, like Bigjohn For-
rest, claims Bunbury for his birthplace, has
always been personally liked by the noisiest
critics of his administrative cap.acity; he is
about the most affable and least vindictive
person who ever ran a Ministry or sought
to turn one out. His invincible good temper
may be largely attributed to his capacity for
being able to sleep calmly, at a moment’s
notice, in any position or hour of the day or
night, a gift which also belonged to the late
George Reid. Jimmy is no orator, and the
only thing vehement about him is his convic-
tion that his State is the finest part of the
Commonwealth and the one where immi-
grants will do best.


Shipping.
BRISBANE, via BYRON BAY
Through Tickets to Brisbane issued.
S.S. OHARA—Every Saturday evening; passengers
due Brisbane Monday afternoon.
S.S. WOLT.ONfiBAR—Every Tuesday evening;
passengers due Brisbane Thursday afternoon.
Both vessels fitted with Wireless Receiving Sets.
fares.
BRISBANE:
Steamer and Motor- throughout, Single,
Steamer and Motor throughout, Return,
•Steamer and First-class Rail, Single,
Steamer and Second-class Rail, Single,
£4
£7/5/-
£3/15/-
£3/8/-
>ORTH COAST S. N. CO., LTD.,
Passengers’ Booking Office:
tourist bureau, ciiallis house,
MARTIN PLACE, SYDNEY.
Brisbane Booking Agents: Burns, Philp and Co., Ltd.
En Route to America Tarry Awhile in
HAWAII
Or take a six to eight weeks’ Round Trip for
about £lOO to £l5O. No extra passage money
to stop oft in Hawaii. Quaint tea-rooms and
gardens; all modern conveniences, good hotels
with meals, 12/- to £3 per day; apartments,
furnished cottages. Entire cost Sydney to
Honolulu and return (2 or 3 weeks in Hawaii),
and a day at Suva or Pago Pago, about £lOO.
L nique vacation; complete change in land of
music, sunshine, tropical coloring, fruits and
flowers. Balmy climate, golfing, tramping, out-
rigger canoeing, surf-board riding, outdoor
sports. Inter-island cruises. Ask nearest travel
agency or write Hawaii Tourist Bureau. Dept.
26, Box 241 D G.P.0., Sydney, N.S.W., for
beautifully colored booklet, enclosing this
advertisement.
See Lovely Hawaii This Year.
Banking;, Public Companies, etc.
The Australian Bank of Commerce Limited
Authorised _ Capital £5,000,000
Capital Paid Up and Reserves .. .. £2,085,303
Aggregate Assets at 30th June, 1920 .. £16,789.590
Directors: Sir Mark Sheldon, K. 13.15., Chairman;
Frank N. Yauwood; Duncan Carson; H. R
Lysaght, 0.8. E .; George J. Sly, LL.D. ; Lieut.-
Col. T. L. F. Rutledge.
General Manager: C. M. C. Shannon.
Chief Inspector for N.S.W.: W. G. Hull.
HEAD OFFICE, SYDNEY (Corner George and King
Streets).
Branches and Receiving Offices at 151 places in
New South Wales.
BRISBANE (264 Queen Street).
Chief Inspector for Queensland: L. Aveyard.
Manager: G. H. Howell.
Branches and Receiving Offices at 27 places in
Queensland.
MELBOURNE (325 Collins Street).
Manager: M. B. Finney.
ADELAIDE (35 Rundle Street).
Manager: R. T. Moodie.
PERTH, W.A. (73 St. George’s Terrace).
Manager; A. C. Dibdin.
LONDON (37 Threadneedle Street, E.C.2).
Manager: A. F. Jenkins.
London Directors ;
A. Donns Fairhairn, Alfred Shepherd.
Agents throughout Australia. Tasmania and’ New
Zealand, and at all the Chief Cities of the World.
Every description of Banking Business Transacted.
Bank of Mew Zealand.
SYDNEY BRANCH:
Corner GEORGE and IVYNYARD
STREETS.
Guaranteed Stock £52itf,988
Preference Shares .. .. .. 1,875,000
Ordinary Shares 3|750]000
Reserve Fund and Undivided Profits 3,390,378
GRANTS DRAFTS
Great Britain and Ireland, and other places.
RECEIVES DEPOSITS
transacts all other usual Banking
at 1 nterest for
fixed periods, and
business.
THE
UNITED
INSURANCE
COMPANY , Ltd.
ESTABLISHED 1862.
HEAD OFFICE:
GEORGE 8 HUNTER STREETS, SYDNEY.
CAPITAL - 51,000,000.
Fire Insurances ou ail classes oi j
■ Buildings, Stocks, Furni-
ture, &c. Rents also assured.
Marine Risks ° a „ Wool, Merchandise,
- Hulls of V essels, Freights,
Passage Money, etc.
Accident and Other Insurances
of various classes.
the “United” is an Australian Institution.
A. C. Dawson, Sec. H. E. Robinson, Gen. Manager.
Australian Mutual
Established
1849.
Head Office:
87 Pitt St., Sydney
Provident Society
The Largest and Most Successful
Mutual Life Office in the British Empire,
distributes a Cash Bonus Every Year.
Amount Distributed for single year 1925 £2,428,000
Yielding Reversionary Additions to
Policies of over £4,150,000
Accumulated Funds £00,000,000
Annual Income nearly £9,000,000
The Society transacts Every Class of Ordinary
and Industrial Assurance Business.
H. W. APPERLY, F.S.S., General Manager.
Keep hopping and hoping if you wish
to succeed
e
è
THINK OF
SCHUTE,
BELL&Oud.
if you have
Wool & Skins
to Sell.
Personal Attention.
Office?: 44 Bridge Street. Sydney.
Shipping, etc.
CANADA, UNITED STATES,
UNITED KINGDOM
FORTNIGHTLY SAILINGS FROM SYDNEY.
CANADIAN-AUSTRALASIAN ROYAL MAIL LINE
via Auckland, Suva (Fiji), Honolulu, Victoria and Vancouver.
UNION ROYAL MAIL LINE
Ada Wellington, Rarotonga, Tahiti and San Francisco.
NIAGARA .... 18,600 tons disp. FEB. 10, for Vancouver.
MAKURA 13,300 •,, ~ FEB. 24, for San Francisco.
AORANGI .. . 22,000 ~ ~ MARCH 10, for Vancouver.
TAHITI 13,300 ~ „ APRIL 24, for San Francisco.
Past and splen-
didly equipped
steamers using
oil fuel.
Spacious Decks,
Unrivalled
Cuisine.
.
€wse
The Scenic
Routes to the
United King-
dom, via South
Sea Islands,
Canada, United
States.
TICKETS TO THE UNITED KINGDOM INTERCHANGEABLE FOR RETURN
BY OTHER LINES.
SPECIAL HONOLULU EXCURSION FARES.
UNION STEAM SHIP CO / Union House, 247 George Street, Sydney.
\ William Street, Melbourne.
MACDONALD, HAMILTON & CO., Brisbane, Adelaide and Perth.
SOUTH SEA TOURS
Attractive Island Trips, occupying about Weelcs.
SIX-WEEKLY SAILINGS FROM SYDNEY TO
Npw Britain »
ill £1(1111,
S.s. “MONTORQ” (5000 tons).
Sails February 15 and March 29.
Solomon Islands:
S.S. "MATARAM” (3500 tons),
Sails March 16 and April 27.
A Delightful Holiday in Island Wonderlands.
For Particulars apply—
BURNS, PHILP & CO., LTD.,
Sydney, Melbourne, Adelaide and Brisbane.
é
ê
t'n
mm
>s^*36
BURNS, PHILP & CO., LTD.,
Passenger Booking Agents for All Steamship Lines
To
ENGLAND
EUROPE
AMERICA
CANADA
AFRICA
INDIA
JAPAN
CHINA
JAVA, etc.
At regular passage rates. No extra charge.
Att i’fipfi vp tnnr tn
NOUMEA, JAVA, HONOLULU, COLOMBO, etc.
VISIT JAVA (The wonderland of the East).
Regular monthly sailings of the s.s. “Marella” and
in.s. “Malabar” to Java and Singapore via Queensland
ports, Thursday Island, Darwin, etc. Smooth water trip,
Deck Cabins, interesting ports of call.
APPLY
BURNS, PHILP & COMPANY, LIMITED,
WOULD TOUR and TRAVEL DEPARTMENT,
7 BRIDGE STREET, SYDNEY.
South Africa and England
ABERDEEN LINE
BLUE FUNNEL LINE
WHITE STAR LINE
Joint
Service
A combined service offering unequalled
facilities at moderate rates.
{Medic 12,000 tons Feb. 21
*Ascanius .. . 10,000 ~ Feb. 25
ißimic 12,500 „ March 1
{Euripides . . 12,000 „ March 14
Ceramic .... 18,500 ~ March 26
* Nestor 14,000 „ March 28
* First class only. fFirst and Third class.
{“Cabin” class only.
For full particulars apply to:
Dalgety 8 Co., Ltd.
Gilchrist, Watt 8 Sanderson, Ltd.
1 Joint
Agents
Interstate Telegraphic address:
“NALDHAM.”
Cable address
“NALDHAM.’
Macdonald, Hamilton 8 Co.
Collins Street, Melbourne,
Shipping Agents, Merchants, Colliery
Proprietors, Tug and Lighter Owners.
MANAGING AGENTS FOR
Australasian United Steam Navigation Co., Ltd.
Fitzroy Estates, Ltd.
Blackheath Collieries, Ltd., and Caledonian
Collieries, Ltd.
Eastern & Australian Steamship Co., Ltd.
AGENTS FOR
British-India S. N. Co., Ltd. P. & O. S. N. Co
Queensland line of Steamers. Scottish’ Shire " Line
(Turnbull, Martin & Co.). New Zealand Shipping Co
Ltd. Canadian-Australasian Royal Mail Line San
Francisco Service (Union S.S. Co.), Union Co
of New Zealand. Ltd. Hain Line. Huddart Parker,
Ltd. London Assurance Corporation (Marine) Mel-
bourne Agents for Messageries Maritimes Co. Queens
land Agents for Sea Insurance Co., Ltd.
borough, Bundaberg and Bowen.
BANK OF NEW SOUTH
Established 1817.
WALES.
Paid-up Capital
Reserve Fund
Reserve liability.
*vm
£6,000,000
4,750,000
6,000,000
£16,750,000
Directors:
Thomas Buckland, Esq., President.
The Hon Reginald J. Black, M.L.C.
Charles Binnie, Esq.
James Burns, Esq.
Robert L. Faithfull, Esq.,
Robert W. Gillespie, Esq.
Franc B. S. Falkiner, Esq.
M.D.
Auditors: W. H. Palmer, Esq.; S. E. Laidlev, Esq. General Manager: OSCAR LINES
Head Office—George Street, Sydney. London Office—29 Threadneedle Street F C o’
431 Branches and Agencies in the Australian ,States, New Zealand, Fiji Papua MandnVw
Territory of New Guinea and London. Agents and Correspondents throughout the world
Cable remittances made to, and drafts drawn on Foreign places DIRECT Foreisrn R'li
negotiated and collected, Letters of Credit Issued, negotiable throughout the world Is
Shipping, etc.
Inter-State Steamship
Sailings.
(Passenger Sailings—Circumstances permitting.)
FOR MELBOURNE, ADELAIDE and FREMANTLE
( Transhipping at Melbourne for Geelong and other
Victorian ports; at Adelaide for S.A. Gulf ports;
and at Fremantle for Perth, Bunbury, Geraldton
and North-West Ports).
ë
FOR QUEENSLAND PORTS
(Transhipping at Brisbane for Maryborough, Bunda-
berg and Gladstone, and at Townsville for outports).
Mackay (no cargo for Mackay), Townsville
and Cairns.
Huddart Parkerfe 1
Magnifloent
Fast Passenger
Steamships
STEAMERS TO NEW ZEALAND—ReguIar Failings
from Sydney to New Zealand ports and vice versa.
Particulars to be obtained on application.
STEAMERS TO TASMANIA—From Sydney to Hobart
and vice versa as per daily papers. Between Mel-
bourne and Launceston as per daily papers.
I or full particulars apply HUDDART PARKER LIMITED,
CoilinaTStreet, Melbourne; Bridge Street, Sydney.
P. & O. via THE CAPE
SERVICE.
ONE CLASS ONLY.
To LONDON, via Durban & Capetown.
AGENTS—GILCHRIST, WATT, SANDERSON.
Tel. 86701-2-3. 6 O’Connell Street, Sydney.
Wills, Gilchrist & Sanderson, Ltd., Brisbane.
John Sanderson & Co., Melbourne.
Geo. Wills & Co., Ltd., Adelaide.
HOTEL
METROPOLE,
. . . SYDNEY.
Opposite Union Club and Two Minutes
from Entrance to Domain and Circular
Quay.
TARIFF from 18/6 per day, or apart-
ments may be secured separately by the
day from 6/6 and upwards. Cards of Tariff
and all particulars posted on application
to The Managek.
“THE WOMAN’S MIRROR.”
PRICE .. 3d.
Contains everything a woman needs to know.
WANT TO MAKE
MONEY ?
“The ‘Wild Cat’
Monthly,”
published on the first Saturday of
every month, will help you in your
dealings with shares.
Hundreds of thousands of pounds
are lost annually in Wild Cat com-
panies. “The ‘Wild Cat’ Monthly”
will help you to identify them.
As valuable for the Smallest
Investor as for the Largest. In fact,
the small investor needs it most.
Published by “The Bulletin,” 2/-
per single copy; 22/6 per annum.


0 v
cn
/
*5
mm
Better Than Ever
Following their traditional policy of constant
improvement with no yearly models, Dodge
Brothers Inc. during the past year have again
vastly bettered their motor car. Never in a
similar period have so many fundamental
and popular improvements been made.
As a result, sales for 1926 were more than
30 °/ 0 above 1925.
Touring Car, £325; Sedan, £420; Coupe, £405.
Equipped 5 Disc Wheels and Balloon Tyres.
DODGE BROTHEHS, INC.
DETROIT. U. 5. A.
Way mouth Motor Co., Ltd.,
42-48 Waymouth Street,
Adelaide.
The Standardised Motors, Ltd.,
252 Castlereagh Street,
Sydney.
Winterbottom Motor Co., Ltd
199 St. George’s Terrace,
Perth.
•»
Austral Motors, Ltd
Brisbane and Townsville.
Canada Cycle & Motor Co. (Victoria) Pty., Ltd.,
352-58 JLatrobe Street,
Melbourne.
Df
111
rui
hQ!
□ <
Q>U
CQ£
□
ilia
10 2
P
□
□


Girls! Keep your Youth and
Charm —Use only
REXONA SOAP.
Nothing adds to a girl’s chaim and beauty more than an exquisite
and perfect complexion. To obtain this, and to retain it, there is nothing to
equal Rexona Soap. If your skin is sallow, tanned or blotchy, you will be both
surprised and delighted with the good results obtained from the daily use of
Rexona Soap for the toilet and bath. Eight out of every ten women in the
better walks of life have adopted Rexona Soap for their personal hygiene and
know there can be no real beauty without a clear skin and perfect complexion
and it is only by daily and continuous use of Rexona Soap that the bloom of
youth can be retained even until and past middle age.
Miss Dorothy Lena,
a beautiful Rexona
Girl, writes: “I have
found that Rexona Soap is
ideal as a Hair Shampoo, and
is also particularly good for
the complexion.”
■
Be
Pretty !
Be
Dainty !
Be
Attractive
Be a
Rexona Girl!
'Rexona
o %r Health
«”* seautj
yS^
wn
* b.
Ol*"
1 /■
m
\
ft.
t
t
B 3
DADDY 5
M /
HOME I
4 >
■
HILLIER'S
CHOCOLATES
“And he’s brought me
one of those lovely
Big Red Boxes!”
Made to-day and mailed
to you to-day.
Send for Catalogue Illustrated
with reproductions of our Con-
fectionery in color.
PRICES:
3/-, 5/6, 6/-, 10/-, 12/6,
20/- and 30/-
Post Free to any address in
Austraiia.
anemia
162-66 PITT STREET.
BRANCHES;
CR. GEORGE AND KING STREETS;
CASTLEREAGH STREET,
NEXT THEATRE ROYAL. SYDNEY.
Anchor Down.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
f MHB voyage o’er, drop anchor now,
I We’ve had enough of wind and sea
Who long ago with eyes aglow
Set sail for shining Arcady.
This ship it was a stately craft,
With gilded hull and sails of snow,
When lured by dreams, by golden gleams,
We sailed from port long, long ago.
put now, behold it, mariners!
Its hull and masts and spars, behold!
No more in pride it rides the tide —
And where is all its snow and gold !
When, eager for far voyaging,
Our mooring lines ashore we threw,
We did in truth what only youth—
Youth bold and venturesome —would do.
Through watch and watch, by mast and
wheel,
We sang together, bright with mirth,
Of how our quest, star-led, star-blest,
Would make a better land of Earth.
What ships we met glad greetings gave.
“And whither bound,” they cried, “are
ye?”
prom stern to stem we answered them:
“We’re outward-bound for Arcady.”
No cheers they gave, no flags they waved,
No glad encouragement they spoke,
But gazed at us, incredulous,
As though they thought us madcap folk.
A time there came when wind and tide,
As up and down the seas we moved,
Brought woe aboard, and hope that soared,
And Youth that cheered unstable proved.
For Youth went drifting down the tide,
And Hope went blowing down the wind,
And all ahead grew dull and dead,
And all grew dead and dull behind.
Now, mariners, good mariners,
Though port and port we know by heart.
This port of dreams, that luring gleams,
No man shall find on map or chart!
Wherefore, by wandering made wise,
No more shall we take ship to sea,
And sail afar, ’neatli sun and star,
In quest of shining Arcady.
n.s.w.
RODERIC QUINN.
The Eagle.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
100 KING up and out of my window in
1 a pause in my writing I saw it—a
dark blot on the clear sky over the
distant purple range. It seemed framed
exactly in the centre of the window, and
something in the unusual size of the flying
thing, monstrous even at a distance, held
my gaze. Although its flight appeared
leisurely, its speed must have been great,
for soon it was plain enough for me to see
the sweeping of its wings. By this time,
fascinated, I was standing by the window
to keep a clearer view as, in its approach,
it rose more directly overhead.
Some admiration for the superb strength
of the great bird’s flight held me. Combined
with it, however, was a feeling of fore-
boding. I have a habit of “thinking in” to
the possible feelings of other living things;
and something of the frenzied terror of
small animals and birds to which that
shadow overhead would be ominous occurred
to me. It was almost as though I were
one of those small creatures myself; yet
there was a fascinated thrill with it, too.
A spell was broken when the great bird,
leaving a trail of faint sound, the beating
of wings, passed out of sight overhead.
I returned to my table and the labor of
love with which I had been occupied. It
Was a letter to my brother, somewhere up
above the Persian Gulf, where the spirit of
adventure had taken him and he had found
worth-while w r ork to do. Strongly the
thought came into my mind that my brother
was like that eagle: strong, courageous,
predatory, and in a way pitiably lonely.
Different as were our natures, there had been
a remarkably strong attachment between us
from earliest infancy, and these letters be-
tween us, a continuous correspondence, were
its abiding sign. The reflection that the
interchange meant more to my strong,
adventuring brother than to myself gave me
a kind of pathetic amusement at times. All
his life my brother, at the back of his wild
defiances of dangers, had an almost passionate
desire for affection, especially my affection.
In our childhood, when never a day passed
without an exploit on his part that made
rue angry with a sense of shame, since I dared
Pot follow where he would lead, he would
leave his bed and clamber into mine, to
sleep with his arm lying over me. It was
a remembrance of such things that impelled
trie to keep up my letters to him ; a poignant
feeling for the loneliness of the eagle spirit,
a sense that my letters to him answered
much the same purpose as my company
beside him did in the days of our infancy.
His letters were more interesting than
mine, which could convey only such hum-
drum news as may be gathered by a man
working in an ordered city and living in
one of its outer suburbs. His teemed with
incident and adventure, references to places
the very mention of which conjured up visions
of romance. Work as an engineer had taken
him to Afghanistan, first of all; he had
found a hazardous usefulness in the war,
which continued, after peace was declared
elsewhere, in the constant conflict against
Bolshevist agencies steadily pushing their
way down amongst the peoples of Asia.
Being in the Secret Service now, his con-
fidences were full of reticences and his
descriptions of his own part in adventures
sketchy ; but my knowledge of his old daring
helped me to understand a lot. The letter
I had before me told how he had managed
to find a way into a secret meeting arranged
by Bolshevist agents, and, practically un-
armed. had held up the leaders and turned
them over to the native authorities. He held
that the greatest part of the success was
in the humiliation he had inflicted, and it
was his avid enjoyment of this phase ot
the adventure that made him tell of it with
more detail than usual.
A swish of passing wings had me on my
feet again. With a bound I was at the
window. The eagle was sailing majestically
around in circles at no great altitude, as if
surveying the surrounding district, its head
turning to left and right as it passed. To
follow it in its circling flight I leaned head
and shoulders out of the window. It came
round w r itli a swmep; and then it seemed to
me that it swooped in my direction.
Hurriedly I withdrew myself from the
window, half closing it as I left it. An
uncanny sensation that I was one of those
small creatures that might be the bird s
natural prey made me fool an actual fear, a
fear of which I was so ashamed that I sat
down again at the table, assuring myself
that there w r as something better to be done
than watching a bird, however magnificent.
The light in the room was suddenly blotted,
a flutter of wings falling on my ears even
as the shadow seemed to fall on my heart.
As I leaped to my feet my chair was upset
behind me. The bird, monstrous in size at
such proximity, was framed in the window,
its wings partly spread and fluttering to
maintain the scrambling hold of its talons on
the window-sill.
My heart pattered as I stared at my
strange visitor. The thing frightened me as
much by the strangeness of its arrival there
as by the terrifying strength it represented;
most of all by the murderous strength that
appeared in the cruel-looking beak. Yet
there was no fury in its aspect; it twisted its
head from side to side, as if inspecting me.
When I could recover sense enough to do
so, I yelled, to frighten it away. It remained
unmoved. For a moment I calculated what
harm that beak, suddenly thrust through
the window glass, could do to me; then,
deciding that I could dodge it if the bird
made an attack, I approached. The bird
gave no hostile signs. I shut the window
full down and retreated quickly.
Uncannily, the bird stayed where it was,
scrambling for its perch. Its presence awed
me. Apparently I could not drive it away.
I left the room, shutting the door after me,
It is hard to describe the feeling of terror
that had overcome me. I heard a swish or
wings, as if the bird had deserted its perch,
yet I felt a reluctance to go back and see
whether it had really gone, or to go into any
room where a window might expose me to
its sight again. I stood in the hall, listening.
There was a curious shuffling at the door,
against which something bnmped several
times; then a rustling of wings, and a flutter-
ing at one or other of the windows. I lie
encircling of the house by the bird, as if
seeking an entrance, was weird. I felt like
a man besieged by something supernatural.
A sharp report rang out just as the sound
of rustling wings came again from the direc-
tion of the window of my smoke-room, m
which I do my writing; with it was the
sound as of pebbles thrown sharply against
the walls, a sharp, hoarse scream and a
sudden heavy beat of wings. With a quick
forgetfulness of my fears, I rushed into the
room again. The bird had gone. I saw it
soaring rapidly upwards; but there were
little blots of blood on the window-sill.
Several neighbors were clustered in my
front garden as I went out. The eagle, high
up in the air now, circled around, unwilling
to leave, but when that mean little runt
Barnes again lifted his shotgun and fired
upwards, it made off with powerful sweeps.
Believed as I was at the bird s disappear-
ance, I felt a vague anger in the thought
that a man like Barnes, with the lust for
killing that is often associated with mean
little men, should have held the whip of
superior weapons over the noble bird. Rab-
bits seemed more Barnes’s height.
We discussed the singular conduct of the
eagle and its magnificent proportions for
some time, and then, feeling glad that my
wife and family, who would have been badly
scared, were away, I shuttered the windows,
locked the house, and went away at his invi-
tion to dine with a neighbor, Targett, glad
to shake off in company the eerie memories
of what had happened.
It was whilst we were dining that an
exclamation from one of the children, who
was facing the window, sent us pell-mell on to
the verandah. Targett’s house, although at
a good distance, overlooked my own ; and we
could plainly see the giant bird, fluttering
around the walls like a moth against the
flame of a candle, visiting each of the shut-
tered windows in turn.
“What a curious thing!” exclaimed Mrs.
Targett. “Why should it hover round your
house in particular, Mr. Matthews?”
“I don’t know. It gives one an uncanny
feeling,” I said. “Of course, the only ex-
planation is that the eagle is a tame one
—possibly a pet at some time. There are
people who have some queer pets; and see-
ing me looking out as it soared round, it
may have fancied some resemblance to a lost
master. Did anyone who previously
in my house go in for keeping eagles?’
The Targetts, who had lived in the district
longer than I, could remember no such keeper
of pets; but this explanation of the weird
visit remained in my mind as the only logi-
cal one. That sympathy for a lost pet, or
one driven away from its home, which, I
suppose, we are all inclined to feel, struck
me in regard to the eagle, which I remem-
bered had had for me the friendly aspect, in
spite of the natural ferocity of its appear-
ance, which a pet shows for the master he
knows. But I was glad to see it fly away as
the dusk fell quickly. Androcles’s lion may
have been all very well to Androcles, but it
would have scared the life out of any other
man it happened to mistake for its benefac-
tor ; and that was how I felt in regard to the
eagle.
Although I laughed at the Targetts’ invita-
tion to stay the night and at the revolver
Targett offered me, my state of mind is in-
dicated by the fact that, although I am a
lover of wide-open windows, the shutters
(Continued on next page.)


a
CONTAINS
HO LARD A NO OTHER
..... w. nil «r> PUT
Ta
NO LAKU* w v.m-
ANIMAL OIIOR FAT.
m
L
*2
A
%Ja
Ft
LC
11*
IT
U*
2
fob
CUTS
I
BRUISES- BURNS
r*
SPRAINS PIUS
** « i -c r. c«
W ,V7f7EMA- BAD LEGS
PIMPLES - ECZEMA hands-
• RINGWORM g ITES . CH AEINGSy
aMUIN^A"^^ 5 "' 010 ' 50^
* aS AN .a*-
£Hpkoc&}^4
£
K
The Best
HEALER
Money Can
V Buy/
1/6 or 3/6
per box, all
Chemists & stores.
A Novel & Safe Way
Of Dealing: With
GOUGHS & GOLDS.
m
A
m
A
Cm
7*
7/a
m
ffs
pA
**
mi
E foi»
COUGHS
LCOLDSs
Bronchitis
tit
/
X
ONE PASTIIu
%
REQUIRED.
I
SEC BOOK
FOB FULL
DIRECTIONS
K£B>UOnom
’’’THERE is no safer treatment
for Summer chills, coughs
and colds than to take a few Peps
tablets.
Peps soothe the tender throat
and air-tubes and remove mis-
chievous germs. They keep the
delicate respiratory organs healthy
and protect chest and lungs from
harm in this changeable and
trying weather.
Sealed up in every Peps tablet
are powerful medicinal fumes
which are carried with the breath
straight into chest and lungs.
That is the secret of their valu-
able “direct” action.
NO HARMFUL DRUGS
Free Jrom opium, chloral
and other harmful drugs.
Peps are splendid for old
and young. Dr Gordon
Stables, and other eminent
authorities acknowledge
PEPS the safest and
most effective throat
and chest •> emedy ever
discovered.
around my house remained closed that night.
I was glad of it when I woke in the morning
to the sound of rustlings and scrapings
against the shutters of my window and the
adjacent walls. With heart pounding curi-
ously, I lay still in bed as the noise passed from
my window, but was renewed at other parts
of the house. It was only when the sounds
had ceased for some time that I had courage
to leave my bed ; and when I left the house
I hurried away from the vicinity as quickly
as I could go.
The newspapers had got the story of the
strange visitor, and it was all over town.
One result was the arrival of my friend
Burns, with a business-like big-game rifle and
a definite plan of going home with me that
afternoon for the prospect of the sport he
saw in killing the big bird. It would have
been foolishness to refuse; yet I felt a strange
reluctance. It seemed to me that I was
betraying something that was placing confi-
dence in me —something that, however much
I feared it, was a friend.
All the same, Burns was there with his
rifle that afternoon, when, after waiting
tensely by my smoke-room window, we saw
the bird majestically approaching against the
blue sky. There had been a conflict of emo-
tion within me up to then, an inclination to
tell Burns to take himself and his gun away;
but a memory of the terror with which the
bird had filled me returned, and I was glad
he was there. Yet even as Burns lifted the
rifle to his shoulder an insane desire to grasp
it from his hands was in- me.
Burns has quite a reputation as a marks-
man at moving targets; it appeared to me
that, simultaneously with the sharp report
of the rifle, there was a splather of feathers
below the soaring bird, which seemed to
check in its flight and then, with wings flut-
tering, topple earthwards.
The sight made me sick, but I found my-
self beside Burns as we reached the gate. The
eagle had fallen some distance away in some
scrub, and he was keen to secure it. I let
him go, not caring to go with him; and I
remembered that I had not inspected my
letter-box. There was a letter in it.
My brother was dead. “The official papers
and medals you will find in the postal packet
which goes separately from this letter ex-
plains how much your brother, who gave his
life in the service of the Empire, was valued
by the authorities, as well as by those who
were liis brothers in the service,” the letter
ran. “Included also in the packet are your
letters to him, which he desired should be re-
turned to you in the event of his death. It
is fine to think of such affection between
brothers as that in which he held you
Did your brother tell you that he learnt to
believe the doctrine of the transmigration of
souls ? . If there is any truth in that, your
brother’s soul will inhabit an eagle; it was
as ‘the Eagle’ that we knew him.”
* * * *
Me had been talking about uncanny
things; that was Matthews’s contribution.
Dawson now weighed in:—
“Normal men like everything about them
to be normal,” lie said. “If there is such a
thing as a spiritual survival it is only a very
foolish spirit who will make mortal survivors
uncomfortable through any feeling that it is
necessary to continue a companionship after
death. I knew a man named Braund, between
whom and his wife there existed an unusu-
ally warm love. They agreed that if either
should, die, he or she would return to the
other in the spirit form, if it were possible.
Braund’s wife died; and Braund’s house be-
came known as being haunted. Braund swore
that he had spoken to his dead wife; ser-
vants declined to stay in the place, and
friends kept away. Braund moved to a new
house. The old one was burnt down —I be-
lieve Braund himself started the fire.”
HAMER.
Trees.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
BRADE was a city man bred to the lure
of lights and the companionship of
the crowd. To him the bush meant
little. In his mind’s eye he pictured it as
a place of kindly trees and green grasses,
where men coaxed the earth to fruitfulness
with little effort, and an all-provident Nature
watched over the wants of her children.
Long afterwards he remembered this when,
cast aside with other flotsam by the current
of war, he found his tired brain and scream-
ing nerves unable to cope with the hurry
and tumult of the city. Doctors shook
their heads when he spoke of sleepless nights
haunted by ceaseless clamorings, and urged
on him the necessity of a country life.
So Brade bought Anthony’s holding, a
ridgy selection of tall, restless timber and
ever-changing lattice-work of shadow. The
hard courage of men who work the soil was
Anthony’s; yet, seated in the little fussy
train with Brade’s cheque crackling in liis
pocket along with his ticket to the city, he
heaved a sigh of relief. Surely it was
only his fancy that far-off trees waved mock-
ingly after him. Perhaps he, too, was in
need of a quiet rest.
Brade, with liis wife and boy, started
afresh; and for the first few months the
peace of the life was balm to his tortured
nerves. It was a quiet place, for neighbors
were few and far between—quiet and rest-
ful, save when the long sighing wind started
in the trees, and then the forest was filled
with phantom voices: voices of laughing
children, of the reef and the booming ocean :
voices high and low, deep and shrill; voices
of ghosts and of eternity. Before she ’became
used to it the woman was frightened, but
Brade laughed happily. “It is better than
the roar of the town,” he said.
With the passing of the months, as he
gained in health he lost, one by one, his
illusions of fc a beneficent Nature. Crops did
not grow and flourish for the mere planting
Constant attention was required—long hours
of toil that went for nothing when the bitter
droughts came and robbed him not only of
his crops but of most of his herd. And
little by little the trees began to haunt his
dreams. Trees of liis imagination—kindly,
shade-giving things Ueneath which one sat
with cool brow watching the land overflow
with milk and honey—were in reality devour-
ing monsters that sucked the life from
grasses, and crowded along the fences, rob-
bing the struggling corn of its nourishment.
He fought them at first with a keen delight.
The work was new, and the smell of crushed
leaves was good in his nostrils. Later, as
the task became drudgery, he attacked them
with a sullen, over-growing hatred. And
they were as the Hydra. Faster than the
dead of his slaying went up in smoke fresh
legions grew. Insolent pushing suckers,
leaves blood-red with the vigor of growth, a
new army sprang up behind the trail of his
axe.
And slowly there grew on Brade a sense
of something uncanny in the place. He
could not say when first he felt this sense,
but every day the feeling grew stronger.
At times he would suddenly .stop, whirling
round in liis tracks as of one who hears
following footsteps. Something hostile
walked behind him and found the raw edge
of his nerves. The touch of a leaf tapping
softly on his shoulder jerked him into ner-
vous laughter.
In a small clearing there stood a great
gnarled tree that Brade had spared because
of its massive girth. Hoary and forbidding,
the grim embodiment of the forest’s defiant
spirit, it affected him with a peculiar sensa-
tion of fear and aversion. When he passed
beneath it his uneasy fears redoubled. lie
could have sworn that something chuckled at
his elbow! A dozen times he raised his
axe for the work of destruction, and as
often something stayed his hand.
And then his boy was stricken down with
some child malady that ebbed his life-tide
with the passing moments ; and the frenzied
father rode madly for help. Fierce lightning
warred with the galloping wind the night
that Brade rode through the shouting dark-
ness. From the tossing timber came the
cries of souls in torment. And all his
haste was useless, for the line was blocked
by trees. Along the streaming tracks fallen
trees thrust jagged branches in his path,
wasting the priceless moments between life
and death, and help came too late.
After that Brade knew. Oh, it was so
easy to see now whence came this menace,
this mockery of trees! See how they
whispered furtively together, whispered
and nodded in malevolent stealth. Why
had he not spied on them before? Whkt
a cunning move, to peer under his arm when
pretending to drink at the creek! How else
could he have noted them bending hurriedly
together? What was it they whispered?
As yet he caught only the faintest murmurs.
But his hearing was growing so keen—oh,
so wonderfully keen! Soon their secrets
would be known to him; but, in the mean-
time, work —yes, that was it. Work!
Swing an axe and feed the fire, hungry,
leaping red-tongued fire!
Brade became a demon of destruction.
Dawn heard his axe ringing through the
timber. Nightly he ran with cracking fire-
stick, a gaunt, frenzied figure, till long lines
of flame lit up the gloomy forest, and dead
trees waved contorted arms in the flicker-
ing shadows. Long and silently he laughed,
seeing the souls of trees shudder and writhe
in flame.
Yet always the forest whispered, furtive
and menacing, until he grew to dread its
meaning, and a nameless terror crawled in
his soul. What if Maggie should hear—and
who could avoid hearing in the silence of
the night? Still, she slept well. She did
not sit up in bed for hours with ears
strained. Her dreams were not horrors of
millions of trees crowding stealthily at the
windows, threatening in sibilant voices some-
thing she could not understand. Surely some
night she would awake, and then—God, how
she would scream! He anxiously watched
his wife’s face for the dreaded sign that
she at last had' heard the voices. At night
he stamped about the house with unneces-
sary vigor, filling the wood-box noisily,
whistling and singing harsh, tuneless songs.
When she commented on the wind in the
trees, he made a great clatter of plat,es and
turned the conversation.
Then one morning Brade went to work,
tense with expectancy. Never before had
his hearing been so been; even the tiniest
insect moved with a harsh, scratching sound.
Fearful, yet impelled by an irresistible force,
he hurried on. Hammers were beating in
his brain. His footsteps beat time with the
rhythm of their song, “The trees are talking,
the trees are talking!” Swinging round a
bend he paused on the fringe of the forest
and listened. And suddenly, with numbing
fear paralysing his soul, his hearing caught
and held the forest’s countless voices. A
thousand pointing fingers emphasised the
deadly menace of the whispering chanted
word that rose and fell—“ Death!” The
little beating hammers changed to a mad.
tumultuous surge that shouted “Death!”
Loud and fierce the great tree on the edge
of the clearing stooped above him and
screamed: “Death !”
Mouthing curses, he attacked the giant
tree with rapid, biting axe-strokes. Here
was something tangible to destroy. And
afterwards he would silence the others, wipe
out the whispering voices and pointing fingers
with steel and flame. The strength of ten
was in the strokes that bit deep into the
tree’s heart.
Minutes passed. Hatless, sweat-begrimed,
with a red mist that swam before his eyes,
he swung savagely at his work. The timber
was cracking now. A last blow and a
shiver ran through the mighty trunk. Slowly
it heeled with a protesting moan. In fierce
elation Brade cast his eyes aloft at the reel-
ing crest, glanced to mark where it would
fall; then the fury died from his look in
blanching horror.
“My God!” he shouted, bounding madly
forward. “Run, Maggie, run!” A woman
carrying a billy of tea had appeared round
a bend in the track. Bradc’s wild shout
appeared to confuse her. She hesitated, ran
this way and that, tripped forward and
screamed as he gathered her in his arms.
With a long whistling shriek of triumph
the great tree was upon them, thundering
down in a swirling crash of mighty limbs
and tossing greenery. A listening silence
hung for a space in the air; then the forest
rippled with a whisper of exulting mirth.
JAMES MCGRATH.


e
WESTING HOUSE
Morse Silent Rocker- Joint
CHAIN DRIVES
Ensure minimum wear —
Maximum life and highest
efficiency.
Chains in stock—wheels manu-
factured to suit requirements.
Write for particulars
and Booklet BM 414.
THE WESTIHCHOUSE BRAKE GO.
OF AUSTRALASIA LTD.,
Queensland Agents—HOLMES & CHE
N.Z. Office—93-107 I’eatherston Street,
Victorian Office—99 Queen Street,
South Australian Agents: Messrs.
Brisbane. „
gton. CONCORD WEST, N.
SMITH & CO., LTD., Adelaid
S. WALES.
3, S.A.
THE MOST EFFICIENT MOWER ON EARTH.
The.
MOTOR MOWER
AT SPECIAL CUT PRICES FOR THE
1926 SEASON.
The “ATCO” will make a very strong appeal to those faced with the neces-
sity of keeping in order large areas of turf, i.e., secretaries of cricket, golf, lawn
tennis, and bowling clubs, proprietors of estates of an acre or more, members of
park committees, hotelkeepers, &c. . .
It is fitted with a 2|-h.p. engine, which develops more than sufficient power
both to propel the machine and operate the cutter, thus requiring only one at-
tendant for guiding purposes. . . ..
The running cost of an “Atco,” thanks to the scientific precision of its con-
struction, is remarkably low. An operator can very easily and completely cut
1000 square yards of turf on a fuel consumption of a quarter-pint of petrol ana
oil mixture. ... . ~
A twin silencer and an extra exhaust pipe (turned sideways to avoid annoy-
ance to operator) ensure extra quiet running of engine.
With the object of making this ALL-BRITISH MOWER more popular on
the Australian market, we are offering them for season 1926 at specially reduced
Full stocks on hand.
PRICES :-—l4in. cutters, £47/10/-; 16in., £57/10/-; 18in.,
£67/10/-; 22in., £B2/10/-; 24in„ £9O; SOili., £llO each,
Printed matter supplied with pleasure on application.
REPRESENTATIVES:
D. AND W. CHANDLER LIMITED,
276-294 BRUNSWICK STREET, FITZROY,
And 234-236 FLINDERS LANE, MELBOURNE.
NEW SOUTH WALES REPRESENTATIVES:
WHYSALL AND BROWN,
BOX 16, KING STREET P. 0., SYDNEY.
If any illustration in “The Bulletin” takes your
fancy, write to the Manager, who will quote you price
for the original.
€3
I k
%
*3
V t
mm
Rem Oil
Long Life to Fine
Mechanisms!
SEWING MACHINES, bicycles, type-
writers, clocks, etc. must be treated,
regularly, with a good oil if they are
to give smooth, silent service.
REM OIL cleans, lubricates, prevents rust.
It cannot be equalled for general usefulness.
Remington guarantees its excellence.
Your dealer can supply or order for you.
Remington Arms Company, Inc.
D. D. BRYANT, Representative
G.P.O. Box 686 E, Melbourne, Viet.
Every
woman
knows
'lft I '‘ r ', I
mm
m
t :
mm
- * -
m?
- f
: -
She cannot
Look her best
When out of sorts
Beauty is more
Than skin deep
It depends on
A healthy stomach
Good digestion
Pure blood
If these are wrong
Health suffers
So does beauty
BEECHAM’S PfLLS
Will put you right
They bring back
The bloom of health.
Worth a Guinea a Box .
Sold in Boxes, II- and 2/6. /
ROBINSON & CLEAVER OFFER
THEIR STANDARD QUALITIES OF IRISH
LINENS AND DAMASKS AT EXCEPTION-
ALLY REASONABLE PRICES, A FEW OF
WHICH ARE QUOTED BELOW:—
Delivery of Goods
is Guaranteed.
Orders of over £lO
Carriage Paid by
Parcels Post to
destination, or by
Steamer to port of
landing.
mm.
iiggp
This beautifully
illustrated Cata-
logue of Fine Irish
Linens, together
with Samples will
be sent post free.
Ask for No. 53D.
IRISH TABLE LINEN.
From the least expensive to the finest in the
world. , ,
Table Cloths, 2 yards square, from 11/3 each,
with Napkins to match, 22 x 22 inches, 12/6
per dozen.
IRISH BED LINEN.
Linen Sheets for single beds, 2x3 yards, at
Lmen Pe pilFow r 'Cases, 20 x 30 inches, from 2/11
each.
IRISH HOUSEHOLD LINENS.
Extra Heavy Unbleached All Linen Huckaback
Towelling, strongly recommended for hard wear,
24 inches wide, from 1/8 per yard. ,
Cream Linen Tea or Glass Towelling, 22 inches
wide, from 1/1 per yard.
Heavy Twilled Typed All Linen Kitchen Cloths,
sizes 22 x 30 inches, from 11/- Pf r dozen.
Brown Linen Topped Bath Towels, very ab-
sorbent, good friction towel for bathers, x
inches, from 3/6 each.
IRISH LINEN HANDKFS.
Ladies’ Hemstitched Handkerchiefs from 4/9
(gentlemen’s Hemstitched Handkerchiefs, from
8/3 per dozen.
Irish Linen
ManufacturersJ
BELFAST
NORTHERN IRELAND
The Monte o J
Irish Linen
•H
&
\
s
1*
ROOKS
UCE
ffost JlofflrookSays ~
“Shake the bottle, remove,
the stopper —Ah! What a
\ delightful bouquet; what
T an appetising zest.”
HARBOR TOURIST TRIPS
Weather and other circumstances ‘permitting.
From Fort Macquarie at 10.15 a.m. and 2.15 p.m.
EVERY TUESDAY AND EVERY THURSDAY.
Fares: All-day, 2/6: Half-day, 1/6. Children, 1/- and 6d _ .
Luncheon by reservation at Clifton Gardens Hotel. Afternoon Tea on Boar .
SPECIAL TRIP EVERY SUNDAY *3p.m..™- No. 6 JETTY, CIRCULAR QUAY
Adults, 1/6. Children, Pod. .
Tels.: 86276 <4 lines). Sydney Femes, Ltd,


,'/r
r
rn
V 1 1' 1
' I
h 1
j I ,11
f I
, / / ' i
I 1 '!' 1 ,;
i i,, i
m
, %
4
\
> m
u)h
a
m
HAROLD *
Nw
THE SPIRIT OF POWER
Power is the very life’s blood of progress. For behind its sure shield happiness,
science and art can alone develop. Power gives mankind a chance to show its
best and so does ;
DEWAR’S
