

V*r' Ml. i
H- .
IMll
K
g*2|
QeS
'Fi
"W
;.i.
f?
1
D S
%
J_
N
I?
mi
me m
mjimm
99
t
Ask. for them by name —
“ FOR XjHEYARE JOLLY GOOD FELLOWS
m 'ig\
,*v
ss-2
22?
W,
m
*jstzr
r&£^
2?I
me
sm.k
sc
V.’s-w 1
*Cvs\'V
'B”W
M\
.Midnight onNewYears Eve!
-You stopped for a space and
wondered what the coining
year would bring.
For this year give a kindly
thought for your friends-
wishthem Health and
prosperity- and toast
them with
AUSTRALIA’S
BEST
\\U\l
!< wj
HIM
SBE-Sp
X92o>
RESCH’S
f/ie Genuine layer
Dinner Ale
The Bulletin
Vol. 48.- — No. 2447.
Thursday, January 6, 1027.
Price 6d.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.


The New Library Catalogue is now
ready and will be forwarded post free, with full
particulars, on application to
DYMOCK’S BOOK ARCADE, LTD.*
428 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
LYSAGHT 7
O
a
R
AUSTRALIA
Support Australian Industries,
All users of Galvaniz id Iron should specify
Lysaght’s Australian-made
Galvanized Cc r ruga ted Iron.
Manufactured wholly from Australian Raw
Materials, and equal :o the best imported.
Visitors to Brisbane! Boqk up at tbe
HOTEL CECIL
(FIRST CLASS)
Reasonable Tariff—Good Position.
mmm
c
Shoe
a
mm
can now give tneir
hair the benefits of
oos
k, Its
An outstanding success w herever
it is introduced, Amaini will
very soon be the most j popular
Shampoo in Australia.
* «
No. 5
for Fair Hair.
Let Amami reveal
hidden loveliness
in your hair.
Amami cleanses. Amami stimu-
lates. Amami leaves a delicate
fragrance. All the Chemists, Hair-
dressers and big Stores have
supplies, 9d. each, complete with
Lemon Juice Rinsing Powder. Make
your hair lovelier for this week-
end Shampoo with Amami.
9»
No. 2
for Dark Hair*
m mm
wn\
•* 4
£
7
Sold Everywhere.
PRICE 1/-
aiaxsfiw
•i
YjO
m
sWlp
P
'
v d|>
■*
The Red Page
The Theatre in America
Speaking of the#drama Somerset Maugham
said to me in'Nefcv York in 1924: "London
is no longer the*greatest' producing centre
in the world. It«msed to be, but now New
York has far*morn theatres than London.
On returning!to Australia one realises that
this passingvOftLondon’s primacy is generally
overlooked. To our British patriotism it
is of course* an unwelcome drift. But wc
are strong eaioughi to accept tacts as they
are. Far more pBays are put on in New
York every season tthan are put on in Ixm-
don. America,,with its pacific industrialism
and’ its spring-aider of wealth, possesses an
overpowering, advantage. New York con-
tains 60-odd first-class theatres as against
London’s 40-odd. The balance of approxi-
mately 50 per' cent, in favor of the New
World capital tells its own tale. Three
new theatres made*?their appearance in New
York last season ;% two others are being
bU In the capitals a on both sides of the
Atlantic .conditions I are parallel in one re-
spect: theatre\rents*are staggering, and to
all appearasncest there us no-limit to their up-
ward flight. 1 This has' a direct effect on the
Drama: masny plays that could be pro-
duced with a treasonable hope of success are,
through this condition, not-accepted and not
produced. Eugene O’Neilltlatcly put himself
on record to tliei effect tliattthe dominant fac-
tor in the drama to-day is the landlord.
But, despite ibis, the feature of the
theatre in Ameflica to-day is its surging
vitality. No one at all interested in the
theatre can live fin New York through a
season without Being astonished at the
energy displayed. Not only are plays of
native American authorship and of English
origin produced, but plaws also from Ger-
many, from France, fromUtaly, from Russia,
from Austria —even plaj$s about Australia.
Many companies from - abroad visit New
York, aiwl present their pieces in the original
language. The Art Theatre has
visited America twice in (the last four years,
and its peerless ensemble work created a new
standard. The tireless and commanding Con
stantin headed the remarkably
intelligent company,and one of tlie most
distinguished of • the- actresses was Madame
Knipper-Tcliekhowa, the widow of the famous
Tchekhov, whose'“The Cherry Orchard” the
company put on often and magnificently.
Last season the organisation’s greatest suc-
cess was achieved witfh “Carmeucifa and the
Soldier.” Two yearsiago the Grand Guignol
of Paris paid-a first visit, and thrilled the
inhabitants of Gotham with its renowned
blood-curdling horrors. It played in French,
and that was a drawback—for its plays are
essentially of popular vatlier than of intellec-
tual appeal, and the average Inhabitant of
Manhattan Island does not speak French.
Last .Tune, the loading company from Spain
came, to present plays by Echegaray and
Benavente. Individual stars. French, Italian
and German as well as English, contribute
their gifts to Broadway’s already glittering
roster. It is a truly cosmopolitan theatre,
the theatre of America.
What of prices? 'How much does one have
to pay for admission? On the whole, less
than in London. Many plays have a “top” of
(13s Ski.) ; a few run to $4.40
(18s. 4d.). Occasionally a manager, realis-
ing that a stroke of fortune W, befallen him
and that he has on his hands a piece which
the public insists on seeing, will jump up
prices beyond the five-dollar mark for the
best, seats. But for the most part, the first
price quoted of a little over three dollars
will obtain for one the best seats in the
house. And the prices range down to $1.10
(4s. 7d.) in the gallery, or “gods.”
There is a most interesting institution in
New York where one can buy a ticket at
less than its price. This institution is known
as the Public Service Ticket Office, and is
run by one Joe Leblang. As can be imagined,
it is exceedingly popular. In order to ob-
tain the benefit one must dedicate to the
benefit of the organisation the modest sum
of 50 cents. In return one is given a ticket
which entitles him to buy theatre tickets for
half price—all except the most expensive
seats. On it is printed: “The holder of this
card is entitled to purchase tickets for all
theatres on the list at our office at the follow-
ing rates." Then follows the list beginning
“$2.75 seats for $1.40,” “$2.20 seats for
$1.10." and so on down the scale. The card
is valid for a year, and is presentable only
at the Public Service Ticket Office and not at
the box-office of the theatre. On the back
is the following information: “Bring this
card with you. Without this card an
extra fee of ten cents will be added
for each ticket purchased. This will be
strictly enforced.” It is. One has to
sign the ticket on its purchase, and should
if be lost a further 50 cents will purchase
another. This discount card is good for all
performances except Saturday nights and
holidays.
IIow is it done? Quite simply. The
manager haS\a number of seats he knows
he will not he able to sell; these he sends
along to the Public Service Ticket Office.
Better to have his house full and to get a
shade less than half for those seats than
not sell them at all! Much better—ask ai y
manager. These seats so purchased are
naturally not the best, being either towards
he side or the back, but are in most cases
taken e<ly WOrth hauing ’ a,ul eagerly
nnnoGte th j re ticke, ‘ a ’S e «cies of the
the nrlL - rd j- r ’ Pays more than
traa« r^ * ce indicated. These numerous places
trade only m the choicest seats of the
most expensive parts of the house. They
are patronised largely by people who arrive
m town half an hour before the curtain
goes up and by the husband who. in the
absorption of making dollars, has forgotten
Ins morning promise and prefers to pav
more rather than have a scene with Lois.
1 here are other phases of the theatre
worth mentioning, but one must draw tlie
line somewhere. Let me conclude with a
practical point, and a suggestion.. In
America, all over America, one can purchase
a ticket for any part of the house, even the
cheapest, weeks in advance, and be assured 1
that that seat is one’s own and no one
else’s. One can wait until a single minute
before the curtain rises—and there remains
that seat, unoccupied, waiting. It is yours.
Gone is the nuisance of the queue; no
fighting for position at the ticket windows;
no scrambling anywhere.
It is disappointing to return to Australia
and find antiquated methods still in force.
It. is time our theatres were, run with a
little consideration for the public. On the
evening before the final matinee of the
Dion Boucicault season in Melbourne, I
tried to book seats at the theatre box-
office. I was refused. I would have to wait
until the morning and book at Allan’s —or
take what seats I could get just before, the
performance. Two methods —which eom-
mends itself?
ERIC MILLS.
Maligned Apollo
Something was said in a recent Bulletin
about the treatment of living characters in
fiction. The treatment may be, and often
is, offensive; but the living can protect them-
selves. There is always the libel law, and
it is a law with a long arm, as many dabblers
in fiction have found to their cost. For
dead men, with still living reputations, there
is no protection whatever. No matter what
they may have no matter what ser-
vice they have done the world, their after-
fame is at the mercy of any scribbler who
wants to build up a circulation. -During the
last year or two, the writer who calls her-
self E. Barrington has done extremely well
with her historical novels, “GloriousjApollo,”
“The Divine Lady” and “The Exquisite
Perdita.” With the last two, which
glorify and embellish the careers of two
famous courtesans, I am not concerned. If
E. Barrington wants to depict Lady Hamil-
ton and Mrs. Robinson as slightly damaged
angels, that is' her affair. Students of his-
tory may scoff, but no one is injured. It is
different when she takes a really great name
—and Byron’s was and is that—and sub-
jects it to a process of wholesale vilification.
This kind of novel, by its travesty of truth,
is a wrong to the dead, and it may easily
be a wrong to the public xvhich has a right
to expect, when real people are introduced,
that the introduction should be fair.
It would not matter, of course—at least,
it would not matter so much—if the readers
of those historical novels knew the life-
stories of the men written about. Unfortu-
nately, they do not. For one person who has
read the latest biography of Byron—Drink-
water’s “Pilgrim of Eternity”—there are
probably a dozen who huve read “Glorious
Apollo.” A pity, perhaps, but there it is.
What is actually known about Byron?
There have been more books written
about him than about any other Eng-
lishman of recent years, but there are
factors in his case that baffle everyone. No
one in his senses wants to hold him up as
a wliolly-admirablo character; but no one
with an ounce of understanding or a scintilla
of fairness would paint him as an unmiti-
gated blackguard. In his lifetime he was
pursued by many women, and calumniated
by many more. Since his death the
women calumniators, from Mrs. Stowe
onwards, have —with one or two notable
exceptions—had the field to themselves.
They can never forgive him for the follies
that other women committed because of him.
This, at least, we know—that Byron left
the world of letters richer than he found it.
lie gave posterity many things of real
beauty. There is no clearer clarion-call to
vLr -japirit than “The Isles of Greece.” The
lines’ on Waterloo are a deathless dirge, in
which the voices of pride and pity speak for
all time. The music of the Hebrew melodies
and a score of lyrics still falls on the ear
like the sound of invisible violins. There
is no more exquisite interpretation, no more
subtle insight anywhere, than in Julia’s
letter in “Don .Tuan” —that lyric masterpiece
in which the love of woman is for ever en-
shrined. Take away nine-tenths of what
Byron wrote, and there is enough left to
make all of us his debtor. We need not
write panegyrics about him, but we owe
it to ourselves, as much as to his memory,
that the beauty of what he made beautiful
should not be tarnished by false associations.
For human nature being what it is, the work
itself suffers—loses half its attraction for
most people—if it is put out as the product
of an inherently vicious mind.
That is where the harm of books like
“Glorious Apollo” comes in. If it were built
on ascertained facts, the admirer of the
poetry, though lie might feel grieved, would
have no right to complain. There are facts
here, of course, but they are distorted and
added to, with the result that what is put
forward as a picture becomes an ugly carica-
ture. Every scandal published or whispered
about the poet is accepted as gospel, and
every posthumous reviler becomes an inspired
prophet. Concerning the worst charge of
all —which Drinkwater, Murray, Edgecumbe
and others regard as at the worst “not
proven”-—no doubts are allowed.
In the Barrington pages Lady Caroline
Lamb is a divinely sensitive creature whose
ideals of love are trampled on by the brutal
Byron. It is kuown that she invaded his
rooms dressed in boy’s clothes; the novel
adds the gratuitous information that “he
poured insult upon her as she lay moaning
and sobbing on the ground.” The worst
scoundrels that Bland Holt used to deal in
seldom went as far as that. What would be
thought of the statement if made of a living
man? Because it is made of a dead one
there is no redress. That Lady Caroline was
a married woman of 28 forcing herself on
a young man of 24, that she forged his name
to get what she wanted and insisted on mak-
ing a show of herself and him before all
London, is not mentioned to the readers of
“Glorious Apollo.” It is a fact, again, that
Byron sent a proposal of marriage to Miss
(Continued on page S.)


r
vae
Men’s Clothing Offers Supreme Values
at Anthony Horderns’
SSs
m
€4
k
The man who cares is certain
to appreciate the Quality and
Distinction of Anthony Hor -
derns’ tailored suits. Our
Made-to-Measure Suits will
give you complete satisfaction
and prove a revelation in
Tailoring values, ever in keep-
ing with Anthony Horderns'
policy of the utmost value.
£7/10/-
Made to Measure. A
perfectly-tailored suit by
Anthony Horderns’ own
expert tailors, faultlessly made and finished
throughout. Suits are cut and tailored to your
own individual style and taste, from excellent
quality English and Australian Worsteds. You
have a choice of either Blue-Grey, Fawn or
Navy shades. An exceptional value of out-
standing excellence.
PRICE
£7jlOj-
£6/6/-
Made to Measure. Careful
tailoring, combining your
personal style preferences
with accepted decrees of Bond Street, is
assured if your order is placed with Anthony
Horderns’. Write to-day for self-measurement
form and patterns, posted free on request, and
select from New Worsteds in shades of Greys
and Brown, showing Herringbone, Plain and
Check designs; also Navy
Indigo-dye Serge, PRICE . .
£6161-
Excellent Shirt Values
Men’s Poplin de Luxe Golf Shirts —a splen-
did wearing and washing shirt. In a range of
exclusive check designs, on various
colored grounds. PRICE
14/6
Men’s Poplin de Luxe Golf Shirts, featuring
Satin stripes, in novel, contrasting
color effects. PRICE
15/6
lyien’s British Twill Golf Shirts, Horrockses
weave, in smart neat stripes, on
White ground.
PRICE
8/6
Men’s British Zephyr Golf Shirts —;
weave, in smart Jacquard stripes, on
super-
light and medium grounds —a shirt
popular with all men. PRICE .. .
12/6
The Sports Shirt, made with roll back collar,
which also buttons close up to neck.
White Mercerised Twill. PRICE .... 7/6
Cream Bradford Twill. PRICE 7/6
White Poplin de Luxe. PRICE 10/6
Natural Fuji Silk. PRICE 19/6
s
ur
vG
Men’s Fuji Silk Golf Shirts, a
firmly-woven All-Silk quality in
a wide range of varied
and smart striped de-
signs. PRICE
211-
In plain Fuji Silk,
cellent quality.
PRICE
19/6
Golfers’ Attire
Men’s Sports Coats, ready to wear, in this
season’s latest weaves, made from the
strongest English Tweeds. Designed with
patch pockets, Plain or with Vent at back.
In shades of Grey and Brown.
PRICE
35/-
Men’s Plus Four Knickers, correct style,
giving the necessary freedom in the
proper place. The latest designs
and colorings in Fancy Tweeds,
PRICE
25/-
Men’s Two-piece Sports Suits, made in
our own workrooms from All-Wool
Tweeds, bought direct from the mills for
our exclusive use. The Coat is designed
with four patch pockets and belted back.
The Trousers possess side and hip
pockets, loops for belt, side
straps, and cuff bottoms.
PRICE
59/6
Other Values: 65/-, 75/-, 84/-, 90/-
(Men's Clothing—Ground Floor, George Street.)
Smart Golfing Hose, made in England, all
the latest designs,
in shades of Fawn
and Grey. PRICE
9 16 to 1616
Golf Pullovers, with V neck; knitted all-
wool; ideal to wear with plus fours; in
all shades of mixtures and marie, with
multi-colored stripes; also in plain marie
shades, with or without pockets.
PRICES 18/6, 22/6, 25/-, 39/6
(Men’s Mercery—Ground Floor, George Street.)
Golfers’ Tweed Caps, in light, medium or
dark Greys, Fawn and Grey Checks.
PRICES 4/6 to 10/6
Similar style, Navy, Fawn, Gabardine.
PRICES 3/9, 6/6
(Men’s Caps—Ground Floor.)
Ls6l—Tan Calf Golf Shoes, with stout
Crepe Rubber soles and heels.
Ideal for golf. PRICE
35/-
(Men’s Shoes —Second Floor.)
Postage Paid on Men’s Clothing and Footwear in N.S.W. and to the* nearest Interstate Port.
ANTHONY HORDERN & Sons Limi+ed,
BRICKFIELD HILL. SYDNEY.
G.P.O. Box 2712 C.
Telephone: City 9440,


Now Australian Industigr
Helps Create These
Famous Values
HUDSON-ESSEX
70 Per Cent Australian Built
The acknowledgment of Hudson-Essex values as
expressed in years of outstanding sales success has
made possible this important combination of Austra-
lian and American industrial resources in the produc-
tion of the greatest Hudson-Essex values ever offered
in this market.
It has required years of study and development to
organise material, manufacturing and distributing
resources in America and Australia and merge the
contributions of each in Hudson-Essex cars now 7 0° A
Australian built. The result is not only a stimulation
of Australian motor manufacturing, the employment
of Australian management, capital, skill and labor,
the increase of prosperity in this industrial field, but
it creates a great series of exclusive economies which
are passed on to buyers in the lowest prices for the
finest Hudson and Essex cars ever built.
Hudson-Essex have long held a leadership in perform-
ance, smoothness, and long-lasting reliability that
is in no way limited by the price advantage they offer.
Now they are finer than ever in those respects. Per-
formance is bettered. Economy is greater. Reliability
is increased. To these advantages are added more
beautiful bodies, new lines, new colors and new dis-
tinction. And think of the advantages of the new
prices in these models, 70 % Australian built —the
Essex Touring at £239, the Essex Coach at £299, and
the Hudson Touring at £399. Is there any car that
ever offered so much within scores of pounds of
the price?
Priced the
Lowest in History
New Lines, New Colors, Richer
Upholstery and Appointment.
Essex Touring - £239
Essex Coach- - - £299
Hudson Touring £399
Any comparison will satisfy you
that such automobile values were
never before offered.
Also on Display—
Hudson Coach, £465.
Hudson Brougham, £525.
Hudson 7-Pass. Sedan, £560.
Prices some points slightly higher.
THE HUDSON MOTOR CAR COMPANY, Detroit, Michigan, U.S.A.
NEAL’S MOTORS PTY., LTD.,
Exhibition Street, Melbourne.
AUTOS, LTD.,
Hay Street, Perth.
LEADER MOTORS, LTD.,
415 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
H. C. HEATHORN & CO., LTD.,
Hobart and Launceston.
DALGETY & CO., LTD.,
Phillip Street, Sydney.
MOTORS, LIMITED,
Flinders Street. Adelaide,
1162-168


PARIS GARTERS
No metal can touch you
are made for you
Men of Australia
Imitations:
You know that imitation
is the sincerest flattery.
PARIS GARTERS are
crudely and widely imi-
tated—more so, perhaps,
than even our human
desire for praiseworthy
approval invites.
Km
At no time could a man better afford to insist upon
getting the genuine PARIS GARTER than to-day. A
substitute is too costly at any price.
Sold by Men’s Stores Everywhere.
PRESIDENT SUSPENDER CO. LTD.
MAKERS
50 York Street, Sydney 326 Flinders Lane, Melbourne.
This is the PARIS
trade mark
m
PARIS
G/IRTERS
No mefal
can touch you
It's your guarantee
oi garter quality
COPYRIGHT
Milbanke ; but this new “historian” adds that
when he received her answer "he broke into
a loud laugh of delight and triumph.” It is
what the bad man of an Adelplii melodrama
would do. What Byron really did and
thought is shown in his letter to Lady Mel-
bourne of September 14, 1814—the day Miss
Milbanke’s acceptance was received : “Miss
Milbanke has accepted me.... Seriously I
will endeavor to make your niece happy. Of
my deportment you may reasonably doubt;
of her merits you can have none.” That is
the real Byron, sensitive and self-deprecia-
tory through his flair of devil-may-caredom.
The woman who married him and left him
in 12 months—driving him through the re-
sulting scandal into exile, and indirectly
causing his death—is described grotesquely,
though in all seriousness, as “this woman
who had the divine instinct to save.” And
so on, through more than 300 pages. The
whole thing is a shocking travesty of facts
that were as open to E. Barrington as to
anyone else.
A. J. B.
Theodore Dreiser
It would take the late Anatole France —
or, to go to the other end of the scale, O.
Henry—to invent anything quite so delight-
fully ironical as the fate of Theodore Dreiser,
the American novelist, whose “An American
Tragedy” is being hailed by everyone as a
masterpiece.
Of obscure German origin, Dreiser began
his literary career—if you could call such
a career literary—as a reporter on Ameri-
can newspapers, and then settled down to
write fiction or starve in the attempt. For
a time it looked as if he would starve. He
wrote very slowly—lie has been engaged on
his latest novel for 10 years—he had no
graces of style, no appreciation of the sweet
uses of advertisement, none of the tricks of
the best seller, no gleam of humor to lighten
the gloom in which his characters are
shrouded.
He is, too, enormously (and, in this cap-
tion-loving age, terrifyingly) diffuse. He takes
well over a million words to tell I lie story
of Frank Cowperwood, the financier whose
rise and fall he traces in his trilogy, “The
Financier,” “The Titan” and “The Genius” ;
and “An American Tragedy” is proportion-
ately longer still, running to 600,000 words
—lOO,OOO words longer than H. G. Wells’s
three-volume “World of William Clissold”
and nearly 10 times as long as many a
popular novel.
Mr. Dreiser’s method is to describe every-
thing that he can think of at the greatest
possible length. Henry James’s people
would analyse for hours the impulse to pick
up a pin. Mr. Dreiser cannot cross a road
without describing, in minutest detail, the
composition of the road, the state of the
surface, the dimensions of the gutter and
the nature of its contents. His style is
so clumsy and rugged, not to say irritating,
and his detail so excessive, that for the first
two or three hundred pages you wonder
in a limp and befogged fashion what it is
all about. But stick at it grimly and you
have your reward. Gradually the appa-
rently disconnected incidents fall into place
like pieces of a jigsaw puzzle, the plot begins
to take on an unexpected power and coher-
ence.
So it is with “An American Tragedy.” Mr.
Dreiser sets out to relate the life-story of a
young man of moderate ability and charac-
ter—the sort of young man who might be-
come a respected haberdasher, a small-town
lawyer or estate-agent, a typical inhabitant
of the great Babbitt warren. But he is
weak, lazy, sensual, tie drifts from one sex
episode to another, becomes entangled with
a poor little drudge whom he finds a bar to
his social progress, and plans to kill her.
In the end she is drowned, and though he has
technically had nothing to do with her death,
he is charged with murder, found guilty and
sent to the chair.
Quite a third of the book is taken up with
the trial, and it is here that Mr. Dreiser
touches real genius. By sheer accumulation
of detail he builds up an atmosphere of sus-
pense and impending tragedy : and in the end
he succeeds in conveying to you—and this is
true art —something of the terror with which
the poor creature in the dock watches the
approach of death.
But the point I set out to make was the
amazing and ironical twist that fate has
lately given Mr. Dreiser’s fortunes. The
American public, having neglected him for
20 years, has suddenly discovered the shabby
genius in its midst- and—here the shades of
Gissing and Hawthorne must have smiled a
twisted smile —a film company is said to have
offered him a million dollars for the picture
rights of his novels.
Not that it will make much difference to
his manner of life, for no man could be
simpler in his tastes or more suspicious of
well-meant publicity. The man’s whole
character may be judged from the fact that
it has just been discovered that he visited
London a few weeks ago, saw his publishers
and slipped away again uninterviewed and
unsung.
G. C. DIXON.
Commissioned Genius
Nothing makes me more tired than the
theory or affectation that creative art, if it is
to give of its best, must be allowed the privi-
lege of “self-expression”—in short, must
choose its own subject and its own media.
It recalls the many occasions when the
creative poseurs, commissioned and salaried
to write, to draw or to versify, at the
appointed moment produced not an article,
a sketch or a verse, but an excuse that they
were “not in the mood,” not “attuned to give
of their best.” As though a paper could go
forth with blank spaces in it because the
afflatus of sl&me moody divinity had refused
to afflate to schedule! I once caused one
of them almost to faint because, having a
little hole in a page that required filling, I
asked for so many stanzas of so many lines
of so many feet with which to fill it—l
didn’t care on what theme as long as it Vas
humorous or satirical. “Oooooh” he mur-
mured, “I couldn’t do that. You can’t
write poetry as though it were cutting up
cheese!” (I did it myself then —but then X
have no soul, only a Iloget, a Rhymer’s
Lexicon, a Concise Oxford, and a reputa-
tion for spiking copy to time!)
My experience has been that most of this
claim to be self-expressive comes from the
least individual of writers and creators —
the people with so small a style or flair of
their own that they could commission them-
selves to write almost anything. They might
even write Wodehouseisms.
Australian artists who have established a
style or an ism attachable to their names are
singularly few. Those who have done so are
also commissionable along other lines. They
are versatile. Discovering a vein of profit
they have explored and exploited it.
There come to mind Lindsay with his
apotheosised barmaid, Souter with his cat
and bold line, Reason and his Wiregrass-
seeds, Betty Paterson’s child-aunts, May
Gibbs’s gum nut babies —they are distinctive.
Others for the most part could turn their
angle of skill along any commissioned line.
One I know, after hacking along in attempted
straight illustrating, is developing a lode
“after Coles Phillips” and is “getting away
with it.” Another, after wasting his sweet-
ness on the desert air and the gum-tipped
landscape, discovered he could etlierialise
the architect’s plan and the motor-car photo-
graph. He, too, is doing well.
The writers with claims to self-expres-
siveness are as infrequent. J. 11. M. Abbott
has made the early days of Sydney his own ;
Bartlett Adamson can dress into a story of
wonder and vividness the dry bones of an
ancient police record; Hilda Bridges has in-
vented what may be termed the Australian
costume-story woven round the putis and
crinoline days of early Tasmania. Bernard
Cronin has discovered (or is it invented?) a
Wild West of gunmen, lie-men and slanguage
on the Tasmanian west coast; Arthur Adams
is in a class by himself with the Double-
bed Dialogues. Randolph Bedford’s Terri-
tory-station stories, and Lawson and Arthur
lloey Davis (until the latter under stress of
over-production burlesqued his types) told
the true tale of the Ou,tback as it has not been
told since; but where are the others whose
“best work” is rememberable? Of those who
can write a pretty, or a pretty-pretty, story
acceptably and saleably there is legion ; just as
there are hundreds who can produce a good
article on almost any subject on earth at
almost a minute’s notice; but these are. all
journalists, not authors of distinction. 'No
one would for a moment accuse them of being
odd.
As the worm who introduced the phrase
“the Australian Wodehouse” I protest that
Nettie Palmer in her haste to prove that the
editor should take what is offered, and not
what he and his readers want, is knocking
the stuffing out of a bogey she, not I, created.
I particularly said “the Australian Wodc-
house,” to make the creature different from
the English johnny; a chronicler of the small
beer of Australian knuthood, done with that
airy persiflage that characterises the dinkum
Wodehouse. It is merely a convenient term,
but I am prepared to abandon it for any that
expresses what I mean in a better way. This
sniffy ultra-Australianism is nothing but a
Bunthorne pose. What is needed is less talk
about it. That which we who buy want to
see is the goods itself. Given that, there
would be no need to commission anything.
Reverting to Wodehouse, Australian brand.
I know at least three who can burble in
approved Wodehouse style-—excellent, almost
inexhaustible stuff. I tried the three at
writing it—without success. I tried them
with one talking it and the other writing it
down —again a failure. They were not jour-
nalists, though one was an author of sorts. I
am confident the native combination that
will be (oh forgive me, but what other word
is there to express it?) Wodehouse is dis-
coverable. Evidently, however, Nettie Palmer
will not assist in the search.
OBFUSCUS.
The Secret of the Novel
Australian novelists make the scene and
the circumstance predominate, and their
characters act their parts instead of living
their lives. The great Australian novel
which is being looked for will not be written
around the scenery and the stock types. They
will have a place in it, but it will be a sub-
ordinate one. That novel will have as its
centre-piece characters with personality. We
lose our perspective in our patriotism at
present, forgetting that the first essential of
any great novel is its universality. The
author shows us how the elements of exist-
ence such as hunger, sex and ambition affect
(in order) individuals, families, groups,
cities, States and nations.
The individual is responsible for the com-
plications which are ever being added to the
human scheme of things. Don’t forget him.
that indefinable thing which is you and I
and all of us, so varied and yet so uniform.
It is the you and I and all of us that appeals
in the great fiction of all lands. We have a
fellow-feeling for the folk who live in the
great novels. Of the scenes and circum-
stances we may have had no experience,
and we are interested in them only as far
as our brothers of the novel are. The
Masters like their scenic effects, and some-
times spread them over pages, but one can
never lose sight of the people in their novels.
They create individuals rather than types.
Such creation is infinitely more difficult but
much more enduring, for it shows at work
those vital urges upon which everything else
is built, and is understandable in all ages.
Pope’s badgered line that “the proper study
of mankind is Man” might well be taken by
Australian (and all authors who create pup-
pets) as their guiding-star. Man and his
hopes, fears, virtues, vices, whims and
foibles: there is the basis of,all great novels,
whether romantic or realistic, from the
seventeenth century to the present day.
Australia has produced but one novel of
power, “For the Term of His Natural Life,”
now about to be offered upon the sacrificial
altar of Hollywood. The characterisation
makes it great. When the even greater Aus-
tralian novel comes, the author will have no
need to worry about the neglect of the pub-
lishers. They are nought but business people,
to be sure, as our authors complain, but
part of their business is to find and pub-
lish great novels. We do not give them
credit for saving us from the horrors which
would be foisted upon the world if every
man was his own publisher and murder
remained a capital crime.
C. R. J. LAVERY.
A Satchel of Books
Daily Mail Year Book, 1927, looks exactly like its
26 predecessors, but it’s much more up-to-date. It’s
better worth its price than any other annuary.
The Life of Benvenuto Cellini (Dent., London). A
cheap, well-illustrated translation by Anne Mac-
donald of the roystering Florentine artist’s famous
autobiography.
Methods of Mendoza, by William Caine (Angus
and Robertson). The popularity enjoyed by “Men-
doza and a Little Lady” will be repeated by this new
Mendoza novel. A bright little book, satirical and
humorous and printed and published in Australia.
How to Conquer Consumption, by David Masters
(John Lane). The title of this book over-reaches
itself. But it is useful propaganda as to how best
to avoid contracting consumption, or, if contracted,
how best to treat it in the earlier stages. The work
includes an interesting account of Spahlinger and
his doings.
The Queen of Roumania’s Fairy Book (Fisher
Unwin). Although fairy stories are supposed to
be mental food for the young, adults will find in this
collection of what is really folk-lore the fascination
associated with the superstitions and the enchant-
ments of primitive minds. “A Christmas Tale” is
one of the most delightful in the collection and is
handled with quite exquisite craftsmanship.
Events and Embroideries, by E. V. Lucas
(Methuen). No other writer of essays and social
commentaries in our time has the same adroit
personal touch as Lucas. In these essays his diver-
gencies are as entertaining as their themes, which
range from bats to volcanoes. The general impres-
sion left by their perusal is one of wonder that so
much interest can be sustained by such a slender
thread of solid matter.
The Love of Mademoiselle, by George Gibbs
(Appleton). Through a tangle of incidents involv-
ing the political affairs of England, France and
Spain, the reader follows the fortunes of Sydney
Killigrew and the Huguenot, Diane de la Notte, the
[harming Mademoiselle who is the heroine of a
dishing -story that comes as a relief from the
“gentle prickings” of the modern knight on the
battle ground of the jazz palace.
The West Wind, by Crosbie Garstin (Heinemann).
With this volume the author concludes his trilogy
of life and adventure in the Cornwall of the eighteenth
and early nineteenth century. The greater part of
the novel is devoted to the period of the Napoleonic
wars and black days in England, with press-gangs
combing the seaports and recruiters scraping the
country towns to keep alive Britain’s mastery of the
sea. A strong, rugged book with life throbbing in
its pulses.
The Handbook and Directory of Adult Education
(Deane). Compiled under the auspices of the
British Institute of Adult Education, it gives the
salient facts as to the purpose, constitution and
activities of the chief statutory and voluntary
bodies dealing with adult education, and is a
witness to the enormous growth of the movement.
But it doesn’t discuss whether we are teaching the
right things. And, after all, that is the great
problem.
Kindling and Ashes, by George Barr McCutc-heon
(Dodd, Mead; Dymocks). This novelist is content
to be a good-seller; and in his native land that is
probably ranked as the highest achievement, in
literature as in pork-packing. The plot on whicn
the present novel is built lays no claim to originality.
It was old when Shakspeare used it; it turns on a
feud between two families and the love of a daughter
of the one for the son of the other. Of course it is
skilfully put together; Met utelieon is a thorough
tradesman.
Dorothy Dix, Her Book (Funk and Wagnalls). This
is the work of an American lady journalist whose
life has been devoted to the task of telling other
people what they ought to do. She has escaped
lynching or murder at the hands of her clientele
and in this volume collects her “understanding and
interpretation of the plain facts of everyday life and
also its enigmas.” The advice is racy; and that
the lady is not without a sex philosophy is testified
to by the quaint comment that .“The man who is
a poor husband is often a good provider.’
♦
“T. 0.1.”: Apropos Marcus Clarke’s “His Natural
life” (B. 11/11/’26). The version published in
the Australian Journal was altered in the opening
and closing chapters at the suggestion of Charles
tiavan Duffy, the father of the present High Court
Judge. This is made clear in Duffy’s “My Life in
Two Hemispheres,” and Clarke himself acknowledged
his obligation.
“Ah Gee”: How do deaf-mutes think ? It must be
by visual images, instead of the mental speech mod
of us use. Are these visual images made from their
finger-alphabet or from print? The latter would
be the faster process, since a whole word could be
grasped at once. 1 have been told that lighthouse-
keepers, who get little speech and do much tele-
graphy, get to think in Morse.
“C.”: Can “The Oldest Inhabitant,” or any other,
throw any light on the history in N.S.W. of one
Thomas Ashe, whom Moore mentions in his “Life of
Byron” ? Ashe, who was the author of a notorious
publication called “The Book,” appealed to Byron
on Dec. 14, 1813, for £l5O to free him from his
difficulties and enable him to make a fresh start in
N.S.W. Hitherto, he said, he had used his pen for
vile purposes. Partly in an expansive moment,
partly because neither Murray the publisher nor any
of his friends would contribute a penny, Byron
provided Ashe with the full amount, and he is
supposed to have come here.
“Stellsby” : Long absence from Australia convinces
an Australian that his compatriots have got an accent.
For very many years the business of life kept me out-
side this country, but wherever I happened to be
I identified the touring Australian, educated or
otherwise, before he had spoken a dozen words. To
satisfy certain University-trained Bulletin contri-
butors who aver that the Australian accent is moon-
shine, I nominate as a shining example to the contrary
a ’Varsity man who is very much and very often in
the public eye—Bruce’s offsider. Incline an ear to
Earle Page when he’s got a full head of steam up,
and, grammar excluded, there is nothing to choose
between his delivery and that of McShortodds when
he is laying the field at the ponies. Anyhow, why
should Australians be ashamed of their accent? The
Yanks aren’t. Neither are Scots, Irish, Welsh or
any other race that speaks the English language.
Seven years’ continual residence in my native land
has very nearly restored my accent to the Earle
Page standard. And I’m not so snobbish as to be
ashamed of it.


mmm
r€j
■if
fc.w r®
H i
m. 4
&
«■;
a .
JM
ipsgl
■
1 . ■ 4* *
mms-
1M
g|? HH
PARK ROAD, SOUTH MELBOURNE, VICTORIA .
CONSTRUCTED FOR The South Melbourne
City Council .
ENGINEER—A. E. Aughtie, Esq., MJnst.C.E .
Complete Concrete Road reinforced with
No. 655 B.R.C, Fabric.
The practical desire for improved roads through Australia”-as in other countries
throughout the world—is repeatedly and definitely evidenced by the application
of B.R.C. Fabric in their construction.
m
m
Road ReinForcemenfs
provide, in a simple and effective way, the ideal reinforcement for cement concrete
or bituminous concrete roads. It can be easily placed in the correct position, cannot
be displaced during construction, and thus reduces labor on the job Being manu-
factured in rolls up to 240 feet in length,laps and consequent waste are minimised.
Every important road
must eventually have a
reinforced foundation.
Australian Reinforced Concrete Engineering Co. Pty., ltd.
Consulting and Designing Engineers,
Normanby Chambers, 430 Little Collins Street, Melbourne.
Phone: Cent. 8861. Works: Ballarat Road, Sunshine, Victoria.
rrrrrrmrr
rrrrrrrrrr
SOLE DISTRIBUTING AGENTS:
VICTORIA Gollin & Co. Pty., Ltd., Melbourne.
NEW SOUTH WALES .. J. Wildridge & Sinclair, Ltd., Sydney.
QUEENSLAND J. Wildridge & Sinclair, Ltd., Brisbane.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA . . Elder, Smith & Co., Ltd., Adelaide.
WEST AUSTRALIA ... Elder, Smith & Co., Ltd., Perth.
TASMANIA Hume Pipe Company (Aust.), Ltd., Hobart
NEW ZEALAND A. C. Gillies & Laird, Wellington.
m


1927 Models
EVERY motor-cyclist and prospective motor-cyclist
should send for a copy of the new B.S.A. Motor
Bicycle catalogue.
It illustrates and describes the full range of B.S.A.
machines for 1927 —a range that offers even greater
value than before.
Every model includes front and rear internal expand-
ing hub brakes; new lubrication system, with special
oil feed to front chain; lower riding position; improved
silencer; screw adjustment to gear-box to facilitate
tightening front chain, etc. B.S.A. steering damper
and shock absorbers to front forks are fitted to
4.93-h.p. de Luxe, 5.57-h.p., 7.70-h.p. and 9.86-h.p.
models.
There are 13 models to choose from, in six engine
capacities, from 2.49-h.p. to 9.86-h.p., including two
new sporting models, the 3.49-h.p. O.H.V. Super-Sports
and the 4.93-h.p. O.H.V. machines.
Inspect these improved B.S.A. 1927 Models before
deciding on your new machine. They will be on view
at the Sydney Motor Exhibition this month.
B.S.A. 2.49-h.p. de Luxe Motor Bicycle.
B.S.A. 3-speed gear-box, clutch, kick-starter,
grease-gun and mechanical lubrication, front
and rear internal expanding brakes, 5 Jin.
diameter, 25in. x 2.75 in. tyres, etc.
B.S.A. 3.49-h.p. O.H.V. Motor Bicycle.
Highly efficient O.H.V. engine with valve gear
totally enclosed, B.S.A. 3-speed gear-box,
clutch, kick-starter, grease-gun and mechanical
lubrication, front and rear internal expanding
brakes, 5 Jin. and 7in. diameter respectively,
Motor Bicycles
PRICES FROM £57/101-
Send for the 1927 catalogue and particulars of Easy Payment Terms
AUSTRALIAN DISTRIBUTING AGENTS:
N.S.W. 1
Q’LANDJ
BENNETT & WOOD, LTD.,
284 Pitt Street, Sydney .
VICTORIA- FIN LA Y BROS. MOTOR CYCLES
PTY., LTD.,
322 Elizabeth Street, Melbourne.
SOUTH AUS.-t/. N. TA YLOR & CO., LTD.,
121 Grenfell Street, Adelaide„
WEST A US.-mortlock bros.,
Hay Street, Perth.
TASMANIA -s/tw king pty., ltd.,
Brisbane Street, Launceston .
B.S.A. Sub-Agents Throughout Australia.
D. Y. RENNIE ( Factory Representative), 49 ELIZABETH STREET, MELBOURNE.
Lead the way on a BSA


%
«
G
and World-Wide Demand
Continues to Grow
Satisfactory performance has built
a profound public respect for
Graham Brothers Trucks and
Buses the world over.
Quality is the highest, prices are
lowest and demand greatest in
Graham Brothers history.
Sales during the first eight months of
1926 aggregated 25,383 trucks
compared with 14,207 for the first
eight months of 1925.
Exports during the same eight
months were 60 per cent, higher
than during the first eight months
of 1925.
Graham Brothers Trucks , with Dodge Brothers \-Ton
Commercial Cars , meet 91°i 0 of all hauling requirements.
Way mouth Motor Co., Ltd.,
42-48 Waymouth Street,
Adelaide.
The Standardised Motors, Ltd.,
256 Castlereagh Street,
Sydney.
Austral Motors, Ltd.,
Brisbane and lownsville.
Canada Cycle & Motor Co. (Victoria) Pty., Ltd.
352-58 Latrobe Street,
Melbourne.
Winterbottom Motor Co., Ltd.,
199 St. George’s Terrace,
Perth.
Graham Brothers
Trucks
Built by Truck Division of Dodge Brothers, Inc.
SOLD BY DODGE BROTHERS
DEALERS EVERYWHERE
6/l/’27i


i
s>;-.
THE STURDY RIDING BOOT
One that’s both close-
fitting and comfortable—
built for hard, everyday
use despite its remarkably
trim appearance.
The Abbey Riding Boot is
made of supple leather,
with stout elastic insets.
Inside it’s lined completely
with a softer leather—giv-
ing a double thickness to
the whole boot, except
where the elastic is. The
toe is strongly reinforced
between outer leather and
lining. No risk of painful
gripping there. The sole,
hard-wearing but suffici-
ently flexible, is welted
neatly.
Order by Post
Abbey Riding Boots are
made in rich-toned tan
willow at 42/- per pair,
or in black at 37/6. They
are designed in three
widths—narrow, medium
and wide.
ABBEY
313 George St, and 224 Pitt St.,
SYDNEY.
Three
Ounces
of Pre-,
ventioa
m
' Extend the life and usefulness of your _
guns by using an oil that dissolves the residue
of all powders and stops the corrosive action of
the acids before they penetrate the steel.
MARBUS Nitre-Solvent Oil
is a combined cleaner and lubricant. No other oil is neces-
sary. Gun barrel and mechanism, if moistened with Nitro-
Solvent, are protected from pitting and rusting. Spout cans;
3 oz. size. At your dealer. Write for catalog of Marble a
Outing Equipment, free.
MARBLE ARMS & MFG. CO. 909 X
611 Delta Ave. Gladstone, Mich.
David Molden, Box 1349, Sydney, Representative
■for a good
/ nights rest
kJ take
mm
it will ensure
a good day 's
work
In 4 sizes
ofall Chemists
and Stores
Keep hopping and hoping if you wish
to succeed —
mmm
THINK OF
SCHUTE
BELL &C u<t
if you have
Woo! & Skins
to Sell.
Personal Attention.
Officer 44 Bridge Street, Sydney.
r: )
a
m
SHEARING SHEDS
STABLES
FLOORS FORWOOLSHEDS
FENCING DROPPERS
PLANS AND PP/CES FREE
GLOBE TIMBER
MILLS
COY.
FLINDERS ST ADELAIDE, S. A.
AURORA” CIGARETTE CASES
Latest from Stewart Dawson's
PRICES OF “AURORA” CIGARETTE
CASES: 37/6, 52/6, 63/-
FLAT MATCHBOXES TO MATCH.
To hold tear-off matches, similar designs
to “Aurora” Cigarette Cases. Price, 16/6
CALL AND INSPECT, OR ORDER
BY MAIL.
Write for New Catalogue.
“Aurora” is a substitute for 18-ct. Gold, to which
it is equal in beauty and finish.
“Aurora” is the same color throughout, and will
retain its finish and lustre with the attention
usually given to Gold.
“Aurora” is a very hard alloy, and will wear ever,
better than Gold.
No article is genuine unless stamped with the name
“AURORA.”
STEWART DAWSON & CO.
54 YEARS’ WORLD-WIDE REFUTATION. (NS W), LTD.
185-187 Pitt Street, near King Street.
412 George Street Strand Corner.
Two Sydney
Establishments
Registered Trade-mark.
BRITISH
SCISSORS of
HIGH QUALITY.
SOLID STEEL. A LIFETIME’S WEAR.
Representatives :
NORMAN BAKER & LONGHURST, LTD.,
Sydney, Melbourne, and Wellington, N.Z.
CHRISTOPHER JOHNSON & CO.,
FLAG BRAND CUTLERY.
Sheffield,
England.
mmm
No. 1369.
FAIRBANKS WHEELBARROWS
mmm
Fairbanks Wheelbarrows are speci-
ally designed for every class of
work and include Tubular Steel
Wheelbarrows, Concrete and Mortar
Wheelbarrows, Contractors’ Wheel-
barrows (all wood), Wood and Steel
and Wood Canal and Railroad
Wheelbarrows, Garden Wheelbarrows—in fact, Wheelbarrows for every purpose.
They are made of sturdy, best grade materials to withstand hard and rough use
and give long service.
All parts are standardised, facilitating replacement when
necessary. Descriptive literature, prices and discounts
sent either direct or through your U. S. A. buying agent.
Representative for Australia:
R. W, WINNING, 380 Sussex Street, Sydney; 235 Queen Street, Melbourne.
The FAIRBANKS Company
FAIRBANKS SCALES, VALVES AND TRUCKS—ALSO DART UNIONS,
Valves of Every
Description.
Fairbanks Building,
New York City, U.S.A.
Hand Trucks for all
Purposes.
Scales for all Weighing
Needs.
PLUM
The morning shave is never a
trial if you use a PLUM.
Guaranteed and kept in order for
two years Free.
CRAIG & AITKEN,
654 George Street, Sydney.
12a
IMPOST FREE j
m
VARIOUS VERSE
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Like Jack and Jill.
Now is the time when golden light
Across the land is flung,
And all is laughter, all is bright
With eager hearts and young;
For as the good old world spins round
Bright picnic days drawn nigh,
When Jack and Jill shall pack their traps
And holidaying hie.
The moment nears when they shall put
All thought of toil away,
And light of heart and light of foot
By hill and stream and bay,
With hampers packed right lavishly,
Through shine and shadow fare;
Sweet Jill shall wear a summer frock,
And Jack his flannels wear.
As side by side they eat and quaff,
Stretched on the ferny earth,
They’ll hear the kookaburra laugh,
And join him in his mirth;
And maybe then, as there they lie,
Bird-music shall resound,
Till Jack and Jill be stirred to song,
And song be all around.
Now, when the holidays draw on,
And under skies of blue
The youngsters all have roving gone,
What shall we oldsters do?
We shall not waste the golden hours
In tiresome toil, I trow,
But like to Jack and like to Jill
We’ll all a-roving go.
n.s.w.
RODERIC QUINN.
At Last.
At last, the long day ended,
May I come
Quietly, hastelessly home —
Home, where all cares are mended.
May Love, my only lover,
Meet me there—
Lips that will bend to my hair,
Hands my own hands to cover.
Let there be no word spoken,
No prayer said:
Only the night overhead,
And peace for aye unbroken.
VICTORIA.
ENID C.
Vagabond Song.
The russet miles were ours to win
In lilting days of song and shine,
Of darting wing and flashing fin
On river-roads of gum and pine.
The portly trees were ours to seek
When summer noon’s hushed hour oppressed.
Through forest aisles, as far we sped,
The morning leaves danced overhead,
The healing wind of night caressed.
We won the miles, we lost the miles;
We heeded not such trifling loss.
The West was rich with welcome smiles,
And golden streams were ours to cross
Beyond horizons magical,
Ablaze with hope, aglow with chance.
The broken quartz and jasper shone
From ridges that impelled us on
And echoed back our bold advance.
Our swift blades carved the golden fleece:
Agog to squander its return,
We left for aye the lap of peace,
Where comfort reigns and home-fires burn.
Too long we held where scarlet hues
F'lame high and amber nectar flows.
We proffered gold and suffered scorn
And grasped the lances of the thorn
To quaff the rapture of a rose.
Fate holds us to the miles we trod
’Neath glamor gone with other days,
When hearts were bold and feet were shod
To win the hills beyond the haze.
Our step wag firm —but ah! bright blooms!
Sweet lips, and ruby flowing free!
Ah, fondly false and falsely fond!
Since you have made us vagabond
We fare by star and spire and tree.
N.S.W.
GERARDY.
Night in a Sanatorium.
The long, slow hours with leaden feet creep
by
Where weary sleepers moan and toss and
turn;
And coughs, crescendo, trailing to a sigh,
Show where Life’s candle scarcely seems
to burn.
The dying moon casts pale and slanting
beams
That weave strange shadows on the
crumpled sheet,
And mingle with my fitful, fevered dreams
In borderlands where sleep and waking
meet.
Soft-footed nurses flit by in the gloom,
Or tensely pause to catch the faintest
breath,
Or wait, nun-like, within a screen-made room
Where some worn barque drifts slowly
into death.
The bearers with their swinging, shaded
light;
The strange, dark cart beside the silent
bed;
Hoarse voices whisper through the tragic
night
As concrete paths resound with heavy
tread.
The moans, the coughs, the strange, sad
gasping sounds.
“What is the time?” The minutes snail-
like creep.
The nurse flits by once more upon her
rounds,
And then, worn out, thank God, I fall
asleep!
W.A.
BILLY C.


9
a.
G
c.
■BlMili****
r
*§
l|ff b ' 1 - HE*
liif ■' : : ■■ V : iS- : : : :
'
’• : ®i®
HHINB
MNBBfIBh
f fIU
B
i
iiiii
H
r ,
./V
WHii
■■li
I ■
S*jß ’ >’ , ls£jf A '
% • J
mm
jKHNii Mi
iiiiii
H
,? v ■ ■'■; ,;.' -
* • : ' v
PH
9HI
,x
r^v
Wd
Z/J ZZ


The Bulletin
Vol. 48—No. 2447.
January 6, 1927.
HOUSES OF CARDS.


The Bulletin
THE NATIONAL AUSTRALIAN NEWSPAPER
“Australia for the White Man.”
Printed and published by William Macleod, of
Musgrave and McLeod Streets, Mosman, for IHb
Bulletin Newspaper Co., Ltd., at the Office of the
Co., 214 George Street, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia.
Melbourne Office : 154-162 Flinders Street.
London Office : No. 1 Wardour Street (near Picca-
dilly Circus), W.l.
PUBLISHED ONCE A WEEK
TERMS TO SUBSCRIBERS
(In Advance only).
Posted to any address in Australasia, weekly:
12 months, £1 is.; 6 months, 12s. 6d.; 3 months, 7s.
To any address Overseas : 12 months, £ 1 10s.; o
months, 15s. 6d.; 3 months, Bs.
Cheques, drafts, etc., which should be crossed, and
all Business Communications to be addressed to the
Manager.
Special Notice.
All correspondence to be addressed to Box 2521 8.8.,
G.P.0., Sydney.
Insufficiently stamped letters are liable to oe
The contents of this paper are copyright by the
publishers. The right to reproduce or translate any
part of the contents of this number is hereby expressly
reserved by the publishers.
The Editor will carefully read and, where practic-
able, acknowledge in the “Correspondence” column
all contributions submitted, whether in the form of
Political, Social or other Articles, Verse, Short Tales
or Sketches (those dealing with Australian subjects
and not exceeding two columns in length, or, say,
3000 words, are specially acceptable), Paragraphs,
Letters or Newspaper Clippings. All communications
will be regarded as strictly confidential.
The Bulletin will return all unsuitable MS. when
the address is specified and stamps are enclosed. But
no MS. will be returned or preserved unless these
conditions are observed. When MS. is forwarded
without stamps for return it will be understood that
the copy is to be destroyed if not acceptable. Per-
sonal applications for return of MS. cannot receive
attention. Further, The Bulletin desires those
sending MS. to distinctly understand that it is not
responsible for the preservation or transmission of MS.
To Amateurs in Black and White.
Anyone supplying to The Bulletin original
humorous or other topical drawings in line or wash,
of sufficient merit and interest and, adapted for
direct reproduction, or any interesting photograph
illustrative of a current event will be paid for same
on acceptance. Any picture containing a good idea
but unfitted for direct reproduction —i.e., any picture
which has to be re-drawn —will be paid for as a
suggestion only. The conditions under which such
artistic contributions will be received are those
applying to M.S.
To Travellers Abroad.
“The Bulletin's” representative in London is
1,. St. C- Grondona. No. 1 Wardour Street
(near Piccadilly Circus). W.l. Copies of
“The Bulletin” can he obtained from him or
th^bookstailii^theMain^^Hal^^^^ustraiia
Also from Messrs. Gordon and Gotch, 15-
T9“l?arringdon Street, London, E.C.i.; and W. Daw-
son and Sons, Cannon House, Breams Buildings,
London, E.C.i.; E - T - Mole, Holerth Satire Ser-
vice, 16 Fleet Street, London E.C.; “The British
Australian and New Zealander,” ili-11 Australia
House, Strand, London, W.C.2; F. Algar, 58 Grace-
church Street, London, E.C.S.
South Africa. — The Central News Agency, Cape-
town, Durban and Johannesburg; Dawson and Son,
Capetown and Johannesburg; Havana House, Durban;
Rhodesia News Agency, Salisbury; Benoni News
Agency. Benoni; Handel House, Kimberley; and
others.
Canada. — G. S. Forsyth and Co., HI Hastings
Street, Vancouver, B.C.
U.S.A.— Chicago: J. Roland Kay Co., 161 East
Erie Street, N. Michigan Boulevarde; Post Office
News Co., S 3 West Monroe Street, Chicago. New
York: Brentano’s, sth Avenue and 21th Street, New
York City: Schultz News Agency, S.E. Corner 6th
Avenue and i2nd Street, New York City; Hotaling’s
News Agency, 203 West ilst Street, New York City.
Washington: Liberty News Co., Seattle, Washington;
Wheatley News Co., 10!, Market Street, San Francisco;
Wallace, The New Orleans News Man, 105 Royal
Street, New Orleans, La. ; The Wide World News Stand,
5iH South Main Street, Los Angeles, Cal.
Egypt. — Jacques. Horn and Co., the Colonial
Book and News Stores. Port Said, Egypt.
Hong Kong. —Brewer and Co., 6!)6 Pedder Street,
Hong Kong.
China. —Brewer and Co., 31. Nanking Road,
Shanghai, China.
Ceylon. — T. L. Do Silva, 39 Chatham Street,
Colombo.
Papua. —Whitten Bros., Samarai and Port Moresby.
Fiji. — A. Barker, Suva; Harry Gardiner, Metropole
Hairdressing Saloon. Suva.
Overseas Advertising Representatives.
London. — L. St. C. Grondona, No. 1 Wardour
Street (near Piccadilly Circus), W. 1.; Gordon and
Gotch, 75-19 Farringdon Street, London, E.C.i.
U.S.A.— J. Roland Kay Co., 161 East Erie Street,
N. Michigan Boulevarde, Chicago.
Postage Rates.
Single copies of The Bulletin (registered as a
newspaper): — Commonwealth, New Zealand and Fiji:
10oz., Id. United Kingdom: ioz. to 10oz., lid.; each
additional hoz.. Id. All Sea Route: 160 z., lid.
British Possessions and U.S.A.: ioz. or part thereof,
Id. Elsewhere, 20z., Id.
*7 7
/L - | /JL / /
y///? y J IIL / 7/fJ.
■ • • mS %/t
THURSDAY, JANUARY 6, 1927.
EDUCATION AND OTHER THINGS.
The Australian Association of Accountants
recently completed the periodical examina-
tion of applicants for admission to its learned
profession, and then it opened its heart and
mouth, and spoke. What it said principally
was that the writing, spelling and English
of a large proportion of the examinees was
deplorable. According to precedent, appli-
cants who had passed the State’s inter-
mediate examination were not tested on these
subjects, but it was recommended that in
future they should be put through with the
rest, in order to ascertain whether passing
the “intermediate” signifies that the pas-
senger is better than the average, or worse.
A further proposition was that the candi-
date who could neither write, spell nor
compose creditably in his mother tongue
should be sent back for educational repairs,
even though his accountancy was satisfac-
tory. As the association never blew up
with this energy before, it is inferred that
the position is growing worse.
* * * *
The demand for the higher education is
small in Australia, and so naturally is the
supply. In no other English-speaking com-
munity large enough to be worth calling a
community are universities so far apart,
and in hardly any European-speaking com-
munity bar Russia. The proportion of
students to population varies from a decent
maximum in S. Australia to a poor minimum
in Queensland: to have 447 students (in
1924) for 835,000 inhabitants is not a matter
to be proud of when compared, to take an
example at random, with the Transvaal,
which had 1310 students and a white census
of 600,000. Yet Australian universities are
not the ornamental “capitalistic” haunts of
dead languages that Domain orators and
students of communistic literature profess
to consider them. That of Sydney is ready
to instruct, for very moderate fees, in
engineering, medicine, surgery, accountancy,
architecture, law, chemistry, dentistry,
history, several modern languages and sun-
dries. Melbourne and Adelaide do an especi-
ally large trade in music, and the holding of
night classes is intended to bring knowledge
within the reach of the “worker.” With
more patronage and less ignorant scoff, the
collegiate institutions might do much to
improve the popular mind. The Australian
compulsory schools are respectable, but not
so respectable as a self-complacent community
imagines. As regards the Australian Press,
the recently-issued “Chambers’s Encyclo-
paedia,” viewing the subject from outside,
passed its verdict thus: “Australian journal-
ism, though markedly clean and sober in
its tendencies, has rarely been of a high
order.”
No other English-speaking country is
dominated by Communists and Socialists,
largely of foreign extraction, and their im-
ported freak ideals, as Australia is. The
old English Nonconformist conscience has
developed here, with Bolshevik trimmings.
The Nonconformist standpoint, during a
good part of the Victorian period, was that
in any difference between white and colored
men the whites were always wrong, and
that in any disagreement between white
races the British were invariably wrong.
The other fellow was always putting up a
noble scrap for freedom. A large, or at
least a loud, section of Australia goes
better than this, and is prepared to lend its
best moral support to Chinese, Zulus or can-
nibals provided they are hostile: to Turks
especially, if they have massacred sufficient
Greeks and Armenians; to British seamen
when they start their British strike in Aus-
tralian ports, and do all possible damage
to Australian industry and battery to Aus-
tralian citizens; and even to the local “push”
when, “rightly struggling to be free,” it
throws bricks and bottles at the local police-
man. Yet no one can say that the Austra-
lian artisan, dragooned by innumerable
bosses, rules and regulations, has any per-
ceptible amount of freedom —in fact, he
appears as short of it as any other white
man outside Soviet Russia. At the same
time Young Australia, living and educated
in an atmosphere of political freedom and
horse-racing, may naturally fall short in
writing, spelling and English.
* * * *
“Development” is commonly assumed to
mean making the country accessible to people
and getting people into it when it is acces-
sible. The Federal Statistician, in his “Offi-
cial Year Book,” supplies a map showing the
density of population in districts. For many
years now the population centre has stayed
at or near the same old spot, “practically
in the longitude of Melbourne and the lati-
tude of Sydney.” Possibly it moves a little
closer in. Railway construction has become
more and more a matter of building cock-
spur lines where there are many of the sort
already, and if there is a perceptible change
the centre of railway mileage also crawls
closer in. The passenger traffic by coastal
ships has to a great extent died out, by
reason of the Navigation Act and of strikes
fomented by mostly-imported and revolu-
tionary non-producers, with whom self-
governing Australia hardly attempts to deal.
Amid all these failures, outbreaks like the
following (taken from the Christmas issue
of the daily which has “the biggest circula-
tion in the Commonwealth”) are a local
specialty:—
Australia is the best and happiest country in the
w0r1d.... Australia’s splendid climate, her great
open spaces, her mineral and agricultural and pastoral
wealth not yet half exploited, her freedom from
privilege, from the extremes of wealth and
poverty....
Much has been done to develop our resources, to
build a group of penal settlements into free colonies,
and colonies into sovereign States, and States into
a nation. For that work the material has always
been overwhelmingly abundant.
Reading that and a thousand similar self-con-
gratulations, a stranger would hardly imagine
that Australia has created no new State,
and has laid the foundations of no place
which has grown into anything worth call-
ing a city, since Britain left it (or most
of it) to work out its own destiny nearly
70 years ago. He wouldn’t suspect the
forlorn aspect of Statistician Wickens’s
population map. In fact, he wouldn’t sus-
pect a heap of things.
* * * *
When a country is run so badly and yet
suffers from such illusions about itself
there is room for some natural doubt regard-
ing the standard of education in various
directions besides writing, spelling and Eng-
lish. The explanation is that very rich
men’s sons have a tendency to be inflated,
self-indulgent and short of enterprise.
Australia as a whole has played the
game of the rich man’s son for a long
time and on a growing scale, with borrowed
money, and has demoralised, most of all
in the overgrown metropolitan cities which
are close up to the loan funds. The country
has almost become oblivious to the fact
that its unprecedented loans are loans, and
not earnings. The “great natural resources,”
which in proportion to the size of the Com-
monwealth are by no means extraordinary
resources, are seen through a haze of loans.
The common impression that the Australian,
merely because he is himself, should have a
particularly high standard of living and yet
do a minimum of work is built on loans. The
increasing corruption of politics is largely due
to loans. When free Australians went to the
Great War, away from their politicians,
strike-leaders, Bolsheviks and loans they
proved themselves not only the bravest of
the brave but men of amazing industry and
resource. Unfortunately the enslaved Aus-
tralian at home might be thrown out of
his union if he showed industry and
resource. Even knowledge is sometimes
objected to. Some little tyrants are anxious
to limit school history to a garbled tale.
PIDDINGTON’S PANACEA.
It was a very simple and childlike train
of reasoning, after all, which led A. B. Pid-
dington to put forward his famous “per-
sonal memorandum” as chairman of the
Basic Wage Commission of 1920. The Com-
mission had to take evidence and discover
the minimum amount of money that would
keep a man and his wife and three children
in a reasonable degree of comfort. The
answer to the sum, whatever it was, was
to be a guide to the Federal Arbitration
Court in fixing the minimum wage. The
Commission found that the basic wage ought
to be from £5 6s. 2d. to £5 17s. a week,
according to locality. Piddington had a
strong suspicion that few industries, if any,
could stand such a minimum. What was
to be done? Manifestly, the easiest thing
to do was to find out actually how many
wives and children had to be supported by
adult male workers, fix a basic rate for the
single man, and pool sufficient to give each wife
and child a fair bonus. But at that stage the
Piddingtonian subtlety came into play.
Apparently the mental image that occupies
the mind of Piddington when he broods
over the subject of wages is that of an
empty cradle. He wants to see all the
cradles in the land overflowing with infants.
But before there are infants there must be
parents. Parents involve marriages—in
respectable Piddingtonian circles —and mar-
riages cost money. Cut the bachelor worker
down too hard, and you give him a good
reason for not marrying. Something had to
be scrapped, so Piddington scrapped the
wives, and went on with his computations
as if they didn’t exist, or as if it were true
that two can live as cheaply as one.
The scheme was sent to WitxiAM
Morris Hughes, who preferred it to the
proposal that industry should stagger under
an addition to its wages bill of about
£100,000,000 per annum; and the idea was
adopted in a mild form in the Federal ser-
vice, the basic rate being fixed at £4 a week,
with ss. a week extra for every child under
14. The fact that the principle was un-
sound was not the sort of fact that ever
did worry Australia’s champion opportunist
Prime Minister.
* * *i •»
As a practical solution of the wages
problem, Piddington’s contribution to indus-
trial lore fails utterly. It ignores the exist-
ence of female workers and of workers
under the age of 21. Their places in the
scheme, apparently, were to be left to the
Arbitration Court to allot, with due atten-
tion to the nature of the services rendered
and the ability of the industry to reward
those services. Similarly, it was to be
left to the Court to deal with the cases of
skilled workers, who as a matter of equity
would probably consider themselves entitled
to more than the minimum prescribed for
an unskilled worker. So that, in essence,
the scheme Was an attempt to encourage the
lowest type of manual worker to reproduce
his kind. Eugenically such a proposal will
not stand examination. All the ascertain-
able facts on the subject lead to the con-
clusion that the unskilled manual worker
breeds more prolifically than any other class
—indeed, that human breeding is conducted
by most present-day communities on the
exact reverse of eugenic principles. The
smallest families are found. at the top of
the intellectual scale, the biggest families
at the bottom, and Piddington proposes
not only to applaud the tendency but to
subsidise it.
* * * •
The acceptance, or non-acceptance, of a
new idea by established schools of thought
is no criterion of its value, but it is worthy
of note that Piddington’s panacea is not
acceptable to any school of political thought.
The Socialists will have none of it because
it involves an acceptance of the Capitalist
regime, and because it deals only partially
and imperfectly with a subject that Social-
ists would deal with in a most sweepingly
universal manner—exactly what they would
do about it is not very clear, but it is
clear that nobody would be left out.
There is no room among the tenets of either
Liberalism or Conservatism for a proposal to
place upon certain sections of private indus-
try—the steady farm-workers have no place
in Piddington’s scheme, and they are not
the only omissions—the burden of providing
for all the children the male workers in
those industries may beget. Even the Labor
party in New South Wales, whose only ascer-
tainable principle seems to be that the
employer is a Derson whose shins must be
kicked, is divided in its opinions on the
subject. The Labor Daily had one of its
spasms of commonsense when it remarked, in
reference to the latest re-vamping of Pid-
dington’s great scheme: —
If a man be childless and wifeless, it, is his labor
power which creates wealth for his employer, and
so secures him his job, and whether a portion of his
earnings is squandered in dissipation or goes to
support other men’s wives and children is quite
beside the point. Child endowment should stand or
fall on its own merits and should not be mixed up
with the question of wages.
The subject certainly ought nat to be mixed
up with wages. That it has been so mixed up
is merely one more of the long string of
errors arising out of the attempt to prescribe
the amount of wages without considering
the value of the work done in return for the
wages. There is no royal road to higher
wages. Wages have to be earned, and the
legitimate job of Labor organisations is to
see that working-men and -women get what
should rightfully go to them. Instead, Labor
leaders in this country have been steadily
preaching the doctrine that the best way to
get higher wages is to get control of Parlia-
ment and make a law saying that higher
wages must be paid.
* * * *
One more consideration. If it is the State’s
business to pay for child maintenance, then
it must also be the State’s business to see
that the children are properly maintained —
a nice, delicate job for an army of Labor-
nominated inspectors! Belloc was right.
Labor is treading the road towards the Ser-
vile State, and the Piddingtons are paint-
ing the signposts.
THE YEAR AND “THE BULLETIN.”
The developments of The Bulletin last
year were very interesting to the people in
the office and maybe of some significance and
value to its friends outside. The war
demoralised half of the world. After several
years of repressions and high nervous strain
the swing of the pendulum was inevitably
towards extravagances and excesses. This
post-war hysteria was manifested in a
thousand ways and directions —in woman s
dress, in public amusements, in the news-
papers, in church sermons, in the amazing
development of time-payment purchases. In a
period when nothing mattered but. victory,
politicians got into the habit of talking airily
in millions and tens of millions. Those
economists who had foretold years of hard-
living to follow the appalling waste of the
war were entirely wrong. They had reckoned
without the enormous growth of the credit
system. Politicians, taking advantage of the
swing of the pendulum towards popular ex-
travagance and excess, borrowed as poli-
ticians had never borrowed before in peace-
time, thus feeding the spirit which they
should have checked. There was in Aus-
tralia at any rate an almost universal rush
to join in the orgy. An artificial pros-
perity was produced which stimulated extra-
vagance and caused a widespread slack-
ness among workers in every grade, with
reduced outputs and high costs accompanied
by graft and other forms of corruption un-
equalled in our history. It was the easy
and profitable thing to go with the crowd,
and The Bulletin found itself a voice
crying in the wilderness. There could be
only one end to it all, and The Bulletin
knew that its duty was to insist and insist
upon the unpleasant fact. It was not an
agreeable duty; it was not a popular one.
Throughout 1924 and 1925 it seemed some-
times as if nobody was listening. But 1926
witnessed a steady change. One 1 after an-
other, politicians, timidly at first, began to
say that the time had come to get back to
sanity. The Queensland, Tasmanian and S.
Australian Labor Governments turned and
faced those who were pushing them and
their States to ruin. The Victorian Labor
Opposition declared that this fury of borrow-
ing must cease. And in the last months of
the year the Federal Treasurer gave warm
approval to a scheme for a sinking fund to
repay those State debts which have been so
lightly incurred.
# * *» *
Meantime, outside the politicians, equally
significant changes have been taking place.
During the war the public got into the habit
of leaving things to a handful of leaders.
Right or wrong, what they said was cheered.
The people were told and believed that that
was patriotism. The habit was carried on
after the Great War. The “class war” was
to be won in the same way. The union boss
was supreme in his own sphere. His mem-
bers were merely pawns in his game. The
politicians, instead of checking him, were
his humble servants. They obeyed him, and
set up laws and tribunals which were to
give the worker high wages and good condi-
tions whether he earned them or not.
Throughout this period The Bulletin was
still a voice in the Avilderness crying that
the thing was impossible. The past year
has seen a steady swing towards that view.
The Australian worker is no loafer; as a
rule, he is happier working reasonably hard
than idling. But he wants to be paid for his
work, and in increasing numbers he sees
that no emplbyer can for long pay for work
that is not done. Piecework and payment
by results have been anathema to the igno-
rant union boss. But the union boss knows
on which side his own bread is buttered,
and he will not set himself up against the
determination of his members. Thus no
officer of the A.W.U. would be suicidal
enough to tell the shearers that they must
abolish piecework. There are industries to
which the system cannot be applied; but
there, are very many to which it can be
applied, and its gradual adoption has been
one of the most hopeful features of 1926.
* * *■ *
Outside industry, too, the pendulum is
swinging back. For some years after the
Armistice very little of any consequence
was written in Australia and not much any-
where else. Even in England the flash and
the insincere were the most talked of literary
productions ; in art, the bizarre and the
false. Newspapers, scenting what the hys-
terical public wanted, supplied it. not with
neivs or solid opinion or good writing, but
with “stunts.” Two or three years ago The
Bulletin was frankly dissatisfied with much
that it printed. Early last year it was a
very healthy sign that Red Page contributors
began to inquire and discuss whether Aus-
tralians could any longer write. Almost
inevitably the writing improved; and when
its Christmas annual was printed The Bul-
letin felt satisfied enough to throw it down
as a challenge to those who had wondered
whether Australians had lost the art of
writing. It is perhaps the most gratifying
circumstance of the year that not scores but
hundreds of letters poured in to say that
the old standard had been not merely reached
but passed. The Bulletin can say this
because, after all, the credit belongs not to
itself, but to its contributors; and the most
cheerful part of the business is that almost
one-half of the prose writers were new men,
unknown or almost unknown. The return
of the country man to his pen and his ink-
pot is particularly significant. In that con-
nection it has been interesting to watch the
change that has occurred in that section of
the paper devoted specially to the bushman’s
prose and verse. Three years ago bush verse
of the old pattern had almost ceased to flow.
So rapid has been the change that there
never has been a better supply of it than
there is to-day. This means more than that
men and women are stringing rhymes. It
means that Australia is getting over its
temporary upset and is returning to its old
ways. Naturally The Bulletin is joyful
about it. Those old sane ways suit it best.


HAS THE BRITISH NAVY SLIPPED?
Navy officers coming fresh to Australia are
struck with the commonness of the belief
that in some way or other the British Navy
has slipped, and that, as a writer in The
Bulletin itself said the other day, “Britain
is not the outstanding naval Power she was.”
Fortunately for us, the only methods by
which the relative strengths of navies can
be regulated by international agreement are:
(1) Limitation of number of ships; (2)
limitation of size of guns; (3) limitation of
size of ships. With these as the mutable
factors, the Washington Conference arrived
at certain agreements which, while impos-
ing equal limits for all the participating
nations as to size of guns and ships, left
England equal to America and 66 p.c. ahead
of Japan as to number of ships. But every
nation represented must have known that
only about 5 p.c. of the factors which con-
tribute to the efficiency of a naval service
had been dealt with ; and to argue that be-
cause Britain has perhaps fallen behind
where that 5 p.c. are concerned she is there-
fore “not the outstanding naval Power she
was,” is almost tantamount to arguing that
because a man has a wooden leg he can’t
be a good rifleshot.
Having regulated 5 p.c. of the essential
factors, there are still 95 p.c. of other fac-
tors on which to work. Since Kempenfelt
revolutionised naval warfare with his Signal
Book, the R.N. has always had the other
95 p.c. well in hand, and there is no reason
to suppose that, even if Britain is behind
on the 5 p.c., she is not still immeasurably
ahead on the balance. Let us have a look
for a few moments at some of those other
factors. In the main they are :
(1) Method of recruiting personnel and
age of entry.
(2) Method of training officers and men.
(3) Efficiency of gun-service _ (breech
mechanism, shell and cordite hoisting and
loading appliances), training, elevating,
sighting and firing arrangements.
(4) Efficiency of gunfire control (a) of
a fleet, (b) of two, three or four ships
against one target, (c) of a single ship at
a single target. This involves inter alia the
calibration of the individual guns of one
ship against each other, the guns of one
ship collectively against those of her divi-
sional or sub-divisional consorts, and the
guns of all ships against those of each other
ship in the fleet or squadron.
(5) Torpedo efficiency. In this depart-
ment alone the post-war R.N. is reliably
stated to be so far ahead of all other nations
that in a Fleet action the R.N. could thus
probably settle the matter out of hand.
(6) Engine reliability and efficiency of
engine-room and stokehold staff. I have
included this particularly because of
America’s adoption of the electric drive,
which is not reliable, and in which the
Americans’ own absence of faith was amply
demonstrated when their Fleet crawled at
half-mile intervals into Sydney harbor in
1925. That was the most pitiable perform-
ance ever staged by any Navy since King
Alfred’s.
Item (1) is almost wholly a matter of
age, but wrapped up in it are the question of
long service (12 years) or short service (one
to five years) and pensions. Early age of
entry in the British service (R.N.) holds
out to many parents a solution of the pro-
blem of feeding, housing and clothing a boy
from the age of 12 onwards, an important
factor in these days of H.C.L. The result is
that many more boys offer than are required,
and the service can pick and choose. Much the.
same applies to the entry of young officers,
and both on the quarter-deck and the lower-
deck something like the cream is available.
The long-service conditions of entry in the
R.N. ensure that those who enter are pre-
pared to make the service their profession in
life instead of merely an episode, as in the
U.S. Navy; and 12 years in the case of a
boy of, say, 13 really means 17 years, be-
cause the 12 years don’t start till he is 18.
Having, then, started these boys off either
in the officer or lower-deck class, it remains
to keep them. That is mainly done in the
lower-deck case by means of pensions. They
are well and willingly tied to the service till
the age of 30, and, being largely unfitted by
then for shore employment, the almost inevit-
able result is that they sign on to “complete
time for pension.” And the privilege of doing
this can be withheld. With such conditions
as these operating in the first place, and
partly psychological conditions operating at
sea later on, it is not surprising that the
R.N. personnel stands so high.
Books could be written about item (2),
but it will suffice here to state that, broadly
speaking, training in the R.N. is based on
a system of understudies, leavened with
a judicious amount, but not too much, of
specialisation. In a stokehold, at a gun
(hand or power worked), in a submerged
torpedo flat, or at an above-water tube, in
the transmitting-station, on the bridge and
in the control position, almost every one
of the normal staff is trained to perform
the duties of almost every other member
of that staff, and most of those doing certain
duties normally are fully qualified by exam-
ination and probably also by experience to
perform the duties of the next higher num-
ber. The result is a high degree of flexi-
bility. The Americans, for their part, tried
to introduce complete interchangeability in
all branches of the service, i.e., executive
(or upper deck), engineering, navigation,
accountancy. It is a wonder they didn’t
throw the medical service and the parson’s
job in as well. The Germans, going to
the other extreme, carried specialisation so
far that if a gunlayer got killed his gun
was practically out of action.
Regarding item (3), efficiency of gun-
serving and firing appliances, it is unneces-
sary to point out that it is no good having
a gun of any given calibre, up to the maxi-
mum allowed, unless it can be efficiently
loaded, laid and fired. If one nation caii
load and fire a 15-inch gun every 20 seconds
and another .every 30 seconds, in, three
minutes the former in an 8-gun ship will
have fired 72 rounds, while the latter will
have fired only 48. One is 50 per cent,
more efficient than the other. If the former
ship is also more efficient in the matters
already referred to under item (4) —and
of which the Official Secrets Act prevents
a more detailed exposition—that 50 per
cent, soon becomes 100 per cent, or more,
for it must be remembered that one per
cent, of hits to rounds fired is a quite
satisfactory result, while leaving ample room
superiorities to double or treble
' g ut w j j mo st want to urge is that if it
becomes a habit to make disparaging re-
marks about the R.N., whether the argu-
ments are sound or not, other nations may
come to believe them and take advantage
thereof to do things that they wouldn t do
otherwise. In spite of alarmists of the
Navy-going-to-the-dogs type other nations
still have a healthy and wholesome respect
the Iv.N. Let us help them to keep it.
X. N. O.
PLAIN ENGLISH.
The Two Paths.
There are two principal theories about
wages. One holds that payment by results
is the only lasting method; the other, that
the standard of living is of first importance.
The U.S.A. is the outstanding advocate of
the former theory, Australia of the latter.
Both have achieved a standard of living
superior to that of any other country on
earth. At first sight this might seem a
vindication of both theories. But the case
is not complete until it is added that, while
the world is mostly in pawn to America, Aus-
tralia is drifting to the dogs financially. In
America the toiler has achieved the highest
standard of living on earth through his own
efforts and through pursuing the payment-
by-results policy ; in Australia the standard
of living is bolstered up by Acts of Parlia-
ment at posterity’s cost. Little count is
taken in this country of the essential rela-
tionship between value of labor and pay-
ment for labor, as may be seen by the fact
that unskilled exertions receive very little
less in most cases, and sometimes rather
more, than skilled exertions. Furthermore,
since the tendency is to depend on day labor
rather than on payment by results, and to
discourage the system of bonuses for extra
exertions, it is obvious that we favor the
slow or reluctant toiler. All this tends to
encourage parasitism, and, what is worse,
to discourage ambition. We imagine that
we can effect permanent improvement in the
toiler’s standard of living simply by passing
Acts of Parliament. Anything more crazy
could not be imagined. Any expenses added
to industry without a corresponding in-
crease in production simply means that the
cost of living must rise. Most Australian
politicians are ardent advocates of what is
termed humanitarian legislation. It sounds
well. It gives the politician a warm feeling
of benevolence, and, what is better, a poli-
tically valuable reputation for benevolence.
But, apart from whether we can afford, it—-
which we certainly cannot —does it not all
tend to debase the people ? Does it not
really smack of soup kitchens and the like?
On the other hand, payment by results is an
excellent spiritual as well as economical
policy. Some humanitarian legislation we
must have, for the sake of the sick and the
aged and thp unfortunate; but we are not
content with that. We carry* the business
much further, and declare that it is the duty
of the State to see that the able-bodied loafer,
no matter how hard he loafs, shall receive
the standard wage. It is all so infernally
illogical. If the toiler working at half or
quarter pace is entitled to the same wages
as the man who is giving of liis best, why
is not the indolent and incapable market-
gardener, whose vegetables are small and
worm-eaten, entitled to the same prices for
his rubbish as his able and energetic com-
petitor is for high-quality produce? At the
basis of our humanitarian legislation is the
theory that, given a general high standard
of living, economic progress will result. You
just secure a high standard of living by
Acts of Parliament, and there you are. This
is merely turning things upside down. A
high standard of living can be produced and
maintained by economic progress. Economic
progress can no more be produced and main-
tained by a high standard of living than a
farmer can get a good wheat harvest by
supplying himself with a big stock of corn-
sacks.
«
Sheltering behind the Dead Soldier.
The orthodox daily paper now and then
gets near to telling its readers the bald and
undressed truth, that Australia is heading
towards national insolvency—though there is
time to stop —but it never quite arrives.
When nearly at the point it shies off, like
an amazed horse, and declares hurriedly that,
while holding a strong opinion against ex-
cessive borrowing, it recognises that the
security of the Australian States is the best
in the world, and that, no matter what they
do, anybody may lend them another billion
with absolute confidence. Whereupon as
much of the billion as happens to be acces-
sible is borrowed. Some recent criticisms in
London drew an impassioned defence of
State finance from Prime Minister Bruce,
when a non-committal smile of derision would
have been better. Other people are still
pursuing the topic, as instanced by this
from the S. M. Herald :
Mr. Andrew Williamson, chairman of the E., S.
and A. Bank, at the annual meeting, declared that
not only did Australia, from 1914 onward, give- the
flower of her young manhood in defence of the
world’s right, but the financial cost to a young
community was terrible. No less than £600,000,000
of war expenditure was incurred, and it is a testi-
mony to the courage of the country that £250,000.000
was paid out of revenue. That meant that something
like £350.000,000 was added to the national debt,
and the fact that it was war . expenditure which
added so greatly to the debt of the country made
more regrettable the assertion contained in the
attack, that in the whole British Empire there was
no more voracious borrower than Australia.
It was added, very truthfully, that the Com-
monwealth is paying 5 per cent, interest
and 1 per cent, sinking fund on its war
loan (£92.090.000) from the British Gov-
ernment, which is very different from the
way some of the Old Man’s late allies
are behaving. Russia, France, Portugal,
Italy, Greece and Roumania are all in
default, though as the other Dominions are
paying scrupulously, Australia isn’t the only
bright spot in the financial sky. But though
the Australians put up a gallant record
at the war (“Bravest of all where half the
world is brave,” as the London Punch war-
poet wrote of them in an inspired moment),
that has nothing to do with the present
case. The existing situation is that the
States paid their way pretty well while the
war was on, whereas now they are a dissi-
pated crowd of spendthrifts, overmuch influ-
enced by scummy imported Communists, and
meet their foreign interest charges out of
foreign loans. Australia’s debt is seven-
tenths peace debt; it has grown by between
two and three hundred millions in the brief
period since the war ; and the men who have
been most active in preparing a national
disaster didn’t go to the war. Most of them
wanted Australia to back out and leave its
Allies in the lurch. Some of them were con-
nected with pro-Hun propaganda. They
mixed with preachers of revolution and repu-
diation. And even if Lang had been in the
wonderful charge at Beersheba, or if McTiek-
nan had fought at Messines, that would
make the Government’s finance no more
honest, its Parliamentary manners no less
bad, and its promises no less like dicers’
oaths.
4
Politics.
“ J.E.” : One of W. W. Jacobs’ stories
contained a character who tippled every
evening with the rest at the Cauliflower
Inn' and disturbed the harmony by con-
stant lamentations over his own drinking
habits, as if they were someone else’s habits,
or an undeserved misfortune. “Blum,”
writing about Politics (B. 23/12/’26),
seems to me to view them also as an un-
merited disaster which has been wished upon
us by somebody else. I take a different
view. The world can no more get on with-
out politics than it can without weather.
A world without any weather, good or bad,
wet or damp or dry, hot or cold, would
probably be found uninhabitable, and so
might one without days or nights. I don’t
regard the game of politics as the invention
of a gorilla. I look on it as a very
ancient and divine institution, the same
as timber. The number of bad uses to
which timber has been put, the burning
of saints among the rest, is legion; but, all
the same, the idea of living on a treeless
planet would be horrible. Politics have been
an occupation of many great and good men,
and of great men who did good without
being good. In this connection “men” in-
cludes women. To suggest a few, I would
mention Moses, Pericles, Louis XI., the
two Pitts, Cavour, Gladstone, Lincoln
and William Charles Wentworth; but
the names of those who played the political
game as a clean game should be played
is legion. If a gorilla with a crooked spine
has been at our politics (and they certainly
look bad enough for anything), that animal
has done us a great wrong and should be
expelled from decent society; but a com-
munity which has the right and the power
to govern itself is generally its own gorilla.
In like manner I fancy it is its own devil,
though it is handy to have a separate and
extraneous devil to carry the blame. If our
politics were made to suit a people who
wanted that sort, tliere isn’t much to com-
plain about. If they were allowed to grow
up through supineness and ignorance, I
would suggest that even N.S.W. hasn’t so
very much to complain of either. Some-
times a community gets a worse Govern-
ment than it deserves and sometimes it
deserves a worse one than it has.
-4
Tropical Industries in North Queensland.
Dear Bulletin,— lll-informed enthusiasts
have been responsible for more failures on
the land in Queensland than is generally
recognised. Various faddists and theorists
have butted in to advocate coffee, copra,
cotton (in the wet belt), sisal hemp, vanilla,
etc., as the only salvation of the tropic
lands, and their culture has been entered
upon by men of more than ordinary intelli-
gence, attracted by financial possibilities that
were non-existent. The remnants of early
attempts at tropical industries other than
sugar, initiated by Messrs. Swallow and
others in the Cairns district, including Bab-
inda, are already barely a recollection. Now
the cacao advocate sees potential wealth
attending fields of this crop garnered by
Italians. Yet the dominating influences point
unmistakably to the conclusion that the
profitable production of cacao in North
Queensland anywhere in the vicinity of the
latitude generally given is not possible. The
plants at Kamerunga, to which a reference
was made by “W.P.D.” (B. 9/12/’26), were
of most indifferent growth, failed to average
more than a couple of pods a year,
and were persistently attacked by the die-
back fungus (Diplodia). The specimens re-
ported at Babinda must have been isolated, for
a comprehensive association with that area
and its farms did not include their acquain-
tance other than occasional specimens on a
sugar farm. A temperature of below 60
degrees is injurious to the plant, and in the
area given it is very frequentlv much lower.
South of the Bloomfield River, cacao culti-
vation is certainly not worth considering.
The financial aspect is quite another feature,
and into this the Northern award for field
(sugar) workers enters. That white men
could do the work is not disputed, but that
it can be performed profitably unless aided
by a high tariff or a most generous bounty
is flatly contradicted. “W.P.D..” who men-
tioned Ceylon as a source for obtaining the
services of an overseer, is urgently recom-
mended to procure a copy of the Ceylon pub-
lication. “A Handbook of Tropical Garden-
ing and Planting,” by Macmillan, Supt.
Royal Botanic Gardens, Peradeniya, and
digest what lie says of cacao: “The first crop
is obtained in the fourth or fifth year from
planting, but the trees will not be in full
bearing until 10 to 12 years old. The yield
should not be less than 6 to 7 cwt. of
cured beans per acre, though up to 9cwt.
is sometimes obtained.” This information
may be augmented by that provided by
Dr. Van Hall (Java), wherein the
number of trees per acre shows a great
reduction on those quoted by “W.P.D.” These
authorities reduce that writer’s gross esti-
mate by two-thirds, and this from 10-year-
old trees, not five- or six-year-olds. The
reference to banana shades amounts to little
more than parading ignorance. The dwarf
variety (Cavendish) suited to Northern areas
is unfitted for shade, and the tall growers
which would provide it are on the whole
unprofitable. Again, whence is the indispens-
able shade to be derived when the bananas
are removed? Erythrina almost invariably
provides it in other countries. There is
room for much expansion in Northern areas,
from which in the days of Chinese produc-
tion and no protective tariff upwards of
50,000 bunches of bananas per week were
shipped. Pineapples for canning can also be
produced in profusion and with a much
higher sugar content than the semi-tropical
fruit. Mill white sugar is available on the
spot, and the “pine”-canning season would
ordinarily immediately follow that of cane
crushing. The possibilities of banana flour
are quite unexploited. If tropical products
are worth considering, why, then, turn to
cacao with its slow growth and its most
problematical result? —Yours, etc., Myall.
N. S. Wales Ports.
Dear Bulletin, —The secretary of the Illa-
warra Chamber of Commerce gave the
Sydney press some data with regard to Port
Kembla. The heading under which one
paper printed the story, “Port Kembla r a
Safe Anchorage,” will occasion the loud and
derisive haw-haw from many masters of
medium to large deep-water vessels who have
spent anxious nights anchored outside the
precious port, which has really only room
for one large vessel to lie at tjie _ so-
called anchorage inside—and dashed little
room to swing at that. There is one deep-
water jetty at which one vessel can load
coal at a time, provided the time is ripe
and the sea amenable to reason; another
jetty for vessels oflesser draught for coal and
coke, rather less affected by the vagaries
of the ocean than the first; and, third and
last, the low wharf, devoted for the most
part to the business of the Electrolytic Refin-
ing and Smelting Co., at which a vessel
of about 5000 tons, when arriving deep-
loaded, cannot hope to work more than two
hatches, as the depth of water will allow
only about half the vessel to connect with
the wharf. Could the people who find the
money only know what it has cost, and is
costing, them to give the Southern (N.S.W.)
coalmines a port outside their back yards
that can accommodate a large vessel, some-
thing might be said loud enough and strong
enough to stop the waste. As a commercial
proposition Port Kembla is probably the
worst advertisement the Public Works De-
partment has supplied N. S. Wales with up
to date; Coff’s Harbor runs it a close second.
Port Kembla is not infrequently congested
through lack of berthing accommodation, and
vessels have been known to depart without
coal for lack of a berth to load. The only
available space for the erection of another
coal-wharf is to be used (it is said) for
the construction of a wharf for Hoskins’
steelworks. This must only increase the
congestion at the coal-wliarf, for these ves-
sels will want bunker coal also. More ports
are wanted in N. S. Wales; but not of the
Port Kembla variety. Wasting energy,
money and time on what will never be more
than a glorified duckpond is simply ridicu-
lous when we have Twofold Bay, Jervis
Bay and Port Stephens ripe, ready harbors
that can be made into safe and efficient deep-
water seaports. It may be argued that Two-
fold Bay will add heavily to the State’s
financial burden during construction; never-
theless, the , end should fully justify the
expense, as the port will relieve the rail-
ways of a large share of their most unprofit-
able freighting. As for Jervis Bay and Port
Stephens, they are practically ready for the
construction of wharves and docks. —Yours,
etc., Bows.
4
Concerning Columbus.
“0.E.J.” writes from Rio Tinto, Spain :
In The Bulletin (14/l/’26) I came across the
following: “Columbus, a Genoese, found America
for Spain.” Curiously, the question of the great
navigator’s nationality is exercising Spaniards quite
a lot at the present time. The country is going
strong on nationalism, and attempts are being made
to establish definitely that Columbus was a Spaniard,
for which belief there seem to be some pretty sound
reasons. Since I am living about 50 miles from
the precise spot where old Chris set sail on his
historic voyage, I hear a lot of this argument, hot
off the wire, so to speak. To begin with, it is
pointed out that the ancient mariner’s name was
not Columbus at all, but Colon (with the accent
on the final syllable), a Spanish and not an Italian
name. The name “Colombo” is an Italian coinage,
and the crazy, meat-eating English people adopted
“Columbus,” for some unfathomable reason. The
old sailorman always called himself Colon ; was
known on all documents of the times (both genuine
and spurious) as Colon ; never mentioned Italy;
never spoke or wrote Italian; in fact, there are
reasons galore that he was a dinlium Spaniard. In
order to settle the argument for all time, a Madrid
illustrated daily is starting a prize-essay contest,
open to the world at catch weights. Here is a trans-
lation of what their issue of October 26 says: “If
it could be proved that Colon was born in the
Province of Galicia, the fame of Spain would be
tremendously increased, since the glory of the dis-
covery, of the conquest and of the civilisation of
the greater part of the American continent would
then belong entirely to us.” To help this good
work along, said daily is offering a prize of 50,000
pesetas (about £1562) to the writer of the best
essay proving that Colon was a Spaniard, the judg-
ing to be in the hands of a committee of eminent
men of Spanish and other • nationalities. If any-
body in Australia would like to give Spain a
hand in settling this vexed question, the archeo-
logists of Croajingalong and the budding historians
of Birregurra should get to work at once, for the
contest closes on April 1. The conditions are quite
simple. Typewritten copies of your essay must be
submitted in Spanish, English and Italian. If any-
one feels like it, he can submit proofs that the
discoverer of America was Cristofporus Colombo,
of Genoa; but in the event of his essay being awarded
first place, he does not get the pesetas. All he
will get in Spain are black looks and loud curses.
4
The River Murray Schemes.
The big job of locking the Murray proves to
be the usual long-drawn-out disappointment.
The original estimate of cost, made in 1914,
was £4,663,000, and the estimate of the time
required was sanguine. The money calcula-
tion was raised to £8,000,000, and it re-
mained glued down at that figure till the
other day, when it moved to £14,000,000. The


The Federal Mutual
Insurance Company of Australia, Limited.
FIRE, MARINE AND ACCIDENT.
Licensed to accept liability under Workmen’s Compensation Act 1926
AGENTS WANTED.
Head Office: 129 Pitt Street, Sydney.
It. RAWNSLEY MOSS, Managing Director.
Victorian Branch: 360-66 Collins Street, Melbourne.
H. L. CARROLL, Manager.
Queensland Branch: Federal Mutual Chambers, Queen Street, Brisbane.
NORMAN M. MAIR, Manager.
South Australian Branch: 36 Grenfell Street, Adelaide.
E. M. MINOGUE, Manager.
SUPPORT THIS PURELY AUSTRALIAN COMPANY.
B. A. MANZIE, General Manager.
AUSTRALIA
Offers yon endless opportunities, for there is health, wealth and content to be
won m this great land.
ttriftr e pra^ee! ISeWhere ’ SU< *' !SS “ d f ° rt ” ne matalj Mlow w!se »°<i
Let Australia’s own Bank help you with both. Its officers are ready at all
imes to extend to you any assistance within their power, and the bank’s efficient
ervice will be available to you in whatever district you make your home.
t r inhere is a Commonwealth Savings Bank Agency in every Post Office and full
branches m the principal towns. *
Commonwealth M of Hustralia
(Guaranteed by the Commonwealth Government.)
time required is now guessed at 25 years,
and the cost has all that time in which to
keep rising. Even if a pyramid was put on
top of it that might not suffice to keep it
still. If one or more of the contributing
States (N.S.W., Victoria and S.A.) run
short of loan money it will be a further com-
plication. And when the work is finished,
one of these days or centuries, the question
remains what possible “primary” industries
can be planted along the Big Trickle to cover
a fraction of the interest on cost. Fruit-
growing is precarious, and shipping dues look
the same. Hereabouts a simple problem pre-
sents itself. Instead of constructing a huge
work out of loans, which will probably be
costing the public revenue £800,(XX) a year
in interest by the time the work is finished,
with promise of the bill going on for ever,
would it not be better to pay £BOO,OOO a
year out of revenue for the actual construc-
tion, and cut out the loans, and the interest
which goes on for ever? When the job is
long and rates are high, the interest which
the country pays on accumulated loans before
it gets the use of the finished undertaking
be just about the price of the under-
taking. Then the interest bill remains as
an absolutely gratuitous curse for ever—the
price of something that the nation didn’t
need, and which profited it nothing, and
helped materially to demoralise its soul, Aus-
tralia is strewn with works for which it has
paid the whole price out of revenue, or paid
it twice or oftener, always in the name of
interest. It expects to pay in full an indefi-
nite number of times over again. Yet it
doesn’t really own a stone or splinter of its
alleged property. The theory is that the
country gets its public works more quickly
by owing for them than by paying for them;
but when the revenue from the work doesn’t
cover expenses, this only means that the loss
begins earlier. The time appears in sight
when some States will cease to get new
works at all by reason of exhausted credit,
and will spend all their time paying interest
on works they have paid for lavishly already,
but still don’t own. If some State Treasurer
should suggest adopting the cash system,
even at this late hour, he would probably be
stoned by the infuriated populace, but he
would die in a good cause.
♦
Why Is the Cost of Living so High?
Deak Bulletin, — There may be a method
of adjusting wages and cost of living if these
two factors are not affected in their relation
to each other by any other factor; but if
a third factor which is quite irresponsible
is permitted to enter into the matter, then
the adjustment of No. 1 and No. 2 is impos-
sible unless No. 3 is eliminated or made to
conform to certain standards. Let me take
a case in point. A consignment of lambs
averaging 341 b. (carcase weight) was re-
cently sold at Homcbush (N.S.W.) for 15s.
6d. These carcases are being retailed at an
average price of lid. per lb., realising £1
11s. 2d. In addition, the skin is sold for
ss. 6d., and the offal (fat, brains, tongue,
head, heart, liver, kidneys and entrails) for,
say, 55., making a total of £2 Is. Bd. There
is here a difference of £1 6s. 2d. A commis-
sioner who will find out who is getting that £1
Gs. 2d. will do a. service to both the pro-
ducer and the consumer, and will go a long way
towards solving the problem of adjustment
between wages and cost of living. In the
case quoted the rate of wages paid by the
grower should be based on the meat at 2d.
per lb. (15s. 6d. pays for skin and offal
as well as meat), but in both State and
Federal awards the rate is based on the city-
selling price of lid. and not on the price
paid to the grower, 2d. In this case the
grower received 37 per cent, of the price paid by
the consumer, and 63 per cent., representing
the third factor, remains unaccounted for.
This 63 per cent, is by no means stan-
dard ; the proportion varies from, say, 30
per cent, to 75 per cent. Any attempt
to adjust wages and cost of living with-
out analysing and fixing this percentage
is obviously absurd; yet we find that,
although every necessary commodity is being
disgracefully _ exploited by middlemen, no
attempt is being made to fix a fair standard
of_ profit or to regulate the activities of the
middleman. Why? Most producers are
very emphatic in their answer to that ques-
tion : 63 per cent, leaves a much wider mar-
gin for pickings than does 37 per cent. About
half of the population of Sydney to-day are
not engaged in productive or reproductive
work, but are engaged in destructive work,
jf the term “work” can be applied to their
activities. The man who neither produces
nor improves the condition of an article, but
who adds to the cost of the article by put-
ting himself in the way of its progress, is
destructive of the people’s capital, and is a
parasite of whom the country would be well
rid. It would be interesting to know the
number of such parasites that exist in the
city of Sydney, and the extent to which they
affect the cost of living. In the opinion
of the writer, 20 per cent, of the population
and 40 per cent, increase in cost would not
be overstating the case.—Yours etc D
McAlary.
A good-looking case can be made out that
the Casual Vacancies Act, by which vacant
seats in the N.S.W. Assembly are filled by
nominees instead of by elected persons, has
at least partly expired. The law says that,
when a member passes out, he shall be re-
placed by a man of the same party, and in
deciding what party that may be “the Clerk
of the Assembly shall have regard to the vote
or votes (if any) of the late member on any
motion or motions of censure during the
present Parliament .” The “present Parlia-
ment” was the one which expired in Febru-
ary, 1922.' Again, it is considered in some
learned quarters that whatever was done
in the brief pre-Christmas session was null
and void, because Parliament had been pro-
rogued till January 11, and the date couldn’t
be anticipated without sufficient notice. If
this isn’t so it will be possible at any time
to whisper to Government members to keep
within reach, and when sufficient Opposition
members are out of reach to have a brief
session and upend things. Finally, there is
great debate whether Lang’s newspaper tax
is lawful, for if the Constitution forbids him
NOW, WHAT DID THE FELLOW MEAN?
BROWN (at fence) : “I say, old chap, I haven't heard your wife playing or singing the
last week or so.”
BLACK: “No, she hasn't the time now the ohildren are home.”
BROWN : “Oh no, of course not; children are a blessing, aren’t they?”
to levy an excise on locally-made beer how
can he do it on locally-made papers? Sup-
pose the excise proviso can be circumvented,
it may be possible to get round the one
against the State issue of legal-tender notes.
If the N.S.W. Opposition was more enter-
prising, or more ready to spend a little
money for the benefit of some deserving
lawyers, it might test these three cases at
law. On present appearances, only one will
be tested—the last by four of the Sydney
dailies.
4
“J.D.C.” : “Retsam” stresses (B. 16/12/’26)
the difficulty of shifting the well-estab-
lished Homebush (N.S. vV.) abattoirs to
the country, and reminds us that attempts
at country killing have been mostly failures
to date because “stock routes get eaten out
and the railways run to Sydney.” It’s the
same old centralisation trouble; but more
cross lines connecting the existing systems
would go a long way towards correcting the
position, as it is very rarely that all parts
of the State are drought-stricken at the
same time. As for the fear that there would
be no competition at country sales, the pro-
ducer gets a pretty rough spin as things are.
He often has to wait weeks for trucks, and
chances striking a glutted market when his
wasted stock finally get there. Argentine
beef has ours beaten, not only because it
is better bred and reared, but also because
fat stock rarely have to travel even a hundred
miles to a “frigorifico” and are slaughtered
with the “bloom” still fresh. "Regarding the
disposal of waste matter —well, a pretty
large inland centre like Broken Hill man-
ages somehow to dispose of all its waste
matter and still enjoy a very fine health
experience.
*
The Returned Soldiers’ League in Victoria
is doing something practical in the cause of
afforestation. The League has a Scholarship
Fund of £25,000, contributed by Diggers
from their gratuities paid in 1919-20, which
is to be used for the benefit of orphans of
soldiers who fell in the Great War. The
trustees have already instituted a scholar-
ship in Forestry, worth £250 per annum.
The course is to extend over three years,
and part will be spent overseas. The initial
qualifications are Honor degrees in Science,
Chemistry or Engineering, and, as the object
is to produce a well-equipped expert, the
trustees are prepared to undertake the pre-
liminary training of a suitable student. The
successful candidate must contract to let
Australia have his services for at least five
years on the completion of his course. In
addition to this there is a travelling scholar-
ship at the Uni. worth £3OO per year. A
student is now doing a post-graduate course
at Oxford. Two other scholarships, worth
£250 a year each, have been offered to the
Education Department, for research in Edu-
cation. These are open to teachers, in or
out of the State service, who are soldiers’
orphans. One is filled; the other is still
open. The R.S.L. is to be congratulated on
this eminently practical form of patriotism.
Griffith Moses” : It is ludicrous for
Feng-Shui” to declare (B. 23/12/’26) that
the Christian missionary has always been the
steward or handmaiden of Western imperial-
ism, and then to say that most of “the
members of great missionary organisations”
who have been allegedly converted to the
Chinese equivalent of Bolshevism belong to
the republican United States, which, it
seems, keeps its hands off its neighbor's
property. Uncle Sam started 150 years ago with
a modest farming property, comprising 13
paddocks, and now owns 3,738,371 square
miles, so he seems to show traces of earth-
hunger. “Feng-Shot” concentrates on
Hong Kong (32 square miles) as the
supreme anti-British grievance. Including
that isle, Britain holds, mostly on lease,
391 square miles of what was once Chinese
soil. The Chinese hold, or claim, or attempt
to hold (at least they held) about 2,700,000
square miles of land in Asia outside China
proper, which might be worth a mention,
but “Feng” doesn’t allude to it. And
if “Feng” wasn’t so exclusively anti-
European, he might have spared a glance at
Japanese acquisitions in these parts, such
as Korea (85,223 sq. miles), Formosa
(13,888 sq. miles) and Kwang Tung (538
sq. miles). Hong Kong, by the way, was a
naked and almost, if not quite, uninhabited
rock when the British occupied it in 1841,
so no wrong was done to the Chinese inhabi-
tants, save possibly, in a prospective way,
to the 449,800 Chows who
went over subsequently, to
feel safer under British
protection. The demand
that it should be surren-
dered to the yellow people
from the mainland, with,
I suppose, the fine British-
built city and the white
population (they would be
handed over to the Chinese
courts), raises a question
as to what “Feng” would
do with later British
acquisitions, including
Natal, Transvaal, Orange
Free State, Rhodesia, Fiji,
Papua, Maoriland and pos-
sibly Westralia, which was
taken a little, but not
much, earlier than Hong
Kong.
4
“A von”: The average
Maoriland Cabinet Min-
ister would rather buy a
thing made in England
than one made in his own
country. This little foible
has been noted by the
astute gentlemen who
deluge the wowsery Domin-
ion with American films
which, even after censor-
ship, frequently succeed in
shocking the guardians of
the public morals. There-
fore, the other day, Free-
man, of the Metro-Gold-
wyn-Mayer combine, got
the Censor and the two
Ministers with the least
sense of humor along to a
more-or-less public lun-
cheon, and proceeded to
throw sops. According to
Freeman’s exordium there
aingoinabe no more pro-
blem or triangle plays made
in Hollywood. After this
everything in the film line
is to be so devoid of sex
that the best seats will be
wolfed by the folk who run
reformatory schools for
girls. But that is not
all. Pictures of Maori-
land scenery are to
be shown in “all the lead-
ing theatres of the United
States.” Freeman said
solemnly that he thought
this would be a fine adver-
tisement for the Shivery
Isles. So it will. But
every Maorilander who has
seen the official films—
they’ve had a good run in
Australia—wonders why on
earth they were done so badly. The photo-
graphy is poor, the selection of scenery is
poorer still, and the general effect is depres-
sing. But the Publicity Department in
Maoriland has always suffered from Minis-
terial niggardliness.
4
The N.S.W. citizen who begins to be doubt-
ful about the robustness of his digestion will
take small comfort from the report of his
Director-General of Public Health. Of 1200
samples of foods and drugs—milk not in-
cluded —more than 30 per cent, “contravened
the standards” of the Pure Foods Act. Of a
great number of fresh-meat samples taken
90 per cent, carried illegal preservative!
Most Sydney householders are familiar with
the flavor of sulphur dioxide, which lends
a tang to the Monday morning steak that
has been kept in “cold storage” since Satur-
day; but the percentage of doctored stuff is
enough to stagger the most sophisticated,
lhere seems a splendid chance here for Min-
ister for Health Cann to do something. A
measure protecting the public would have
an agreeable flavor of novelty, too.


Quality O&at&d tAe demand
Quality 'tnaitdaieui tAe Sale
Army Club
lO for 9d. CIGARETTES 20 for 1/6
In pure ribbed watermarked rice paper .
CAVANDERS Ltd., London (Est. 1775), Pioneers of Hygienic Cigarette Packing.
a
CORK-TIPPED
or PLAIN
POLITICAL
POINTS
Governor de Chair signed the N.S.W.
Government’s bill imposing a ha’-penny tax
on newspapers on receiving the certificate of
Attorney-General McTiernan that he (Mc-
Tiernan) hadn’t made a mess of things in
declaring the tax constitutional. It suggests
a handy form of testimonial: —
I, John Smith, testify that I have known myself
for as long as I remember, and can assure all and
sundry that I am honest, industrious and intelligent
above the average, and eminently fitted for any light
position where large sums of money are involved.
John Smith.
The N.S.W. Government, which some-
times sees things when they are pointed out,
has decided that its endowment of 6s. per
week per child will only apply when the
parental wage doesn’t exceed £5OO a year
(say £9 12s. per week). If the man on
that wage has two children, his income
will be made up to £lO 4s. The Premier s
confused attention was drawn to the fact
that some provision should be made for the
man who gets no wages, but makes 30s. or
£3 a week by working for himself, and who
has perhaps eight children. When he got
over his astonishment, he said he would see
Minister Badly about it. Intense concentra-
tion on the “wage slave” evidently blinded
the Ministry to the fact that when Uncle
Tom can’t find a solvent Legree to enslave
him at the legal remuneration, he has to
enslave himself at any terms he can get.
One of the first fruits of the Gooditi-
Gillies thumbscrews which N.S.W. Premier
Lang is now wearing is the hasty prepara-
tion of a bill to readjust the single elector-
ate boundaries. These, as fixed by the Com-
mission, took six seats from the country,
one going to Newcastle, and five being tacked
on to the metropolitan quota. The new
bill is to give the country back its seats.
Lang’s Child Endowment Bill, thrown as
a sop to the Labor Cerberus, has bitterly
offended at least one of that beast’s heads.
This is the A.W.U., which has perhaps the
nastiest bark and bite of them all. The big
union damns the whole idea as a feeble
crib from the Opposition party’s policy. It
can see where the shoe will pinch—the
A.W.U. has a larger proportion of single
men in its ranks than any other union in
Australia. It can, therefore, detect no reason
why a married man should get more than
a single man for shearing 100 sheep.
In his New Year message, N.S.W. Pre-
mier Lang said that the Government —which
WHERE IGNORANCE IS BLISS.
“One hundred and fifty-six women died in childbirth in Vic. last year. Many cases occurred in
lodging-houses Masquerading as private-hospitals, which the law seems at present powerless to suppress.,
MATRON GAMP: “Well, now, don’t I look lovely? Why, even Mr. Dickens wouldn't
know me!”
means himself, of course —“is proud of its
achievements.” It is just the sort of Gov-
ernment that would be.
British coal-miners’ secretary Cook finished
his visit to Moscow, where he had gone for
Bolshevik instructions, with a characteristic
outburst. He said that all he had seen, in
Russia had been a wonderful, beautiful
dream, and that he wanted to start the
gory British revolution right off. Doubtless
Cook was quite sincere. In Russia he
associated with the rich and the great (the
rich thieves and the great thieves), and
found himself quite at home. He mixed
with the kings of the land and was not
abashed, for they were as common as himself.
He clumped in marble and confiscated halls
as an honored guest. And when he reflected
that a Bolshevik revolution in England
might raise him and Jack Jones, M.P., to
the same glory, he naturally said it was a
beautiful dream and that he didn’t mind
how soon he rose.
Radical reforms in the administration of
Vic. State Departments are recommended
by Wallace Ross, the Melbourne accountant
appointed seven months ago, at a fee of
£525, to inquire whether waste, extrava-
gance, overlapping or over-staffing existed.
Abolition of the Closer Settlement Board
and Health Commission, complete reorgan-
isation of the Lands Department, and a
searchlight on the Works Department are
the chief recommendations. Then come pro-
posals for definite training of officers tor
responsible jobs, appointment of an efficiency
expert to assist Service-Commissioner Mc-
Pherson, delegation of promotions to perma-
nent heads (subject to appeal to the Ser-
vice Commissioner), stoppage of promotions
to chief positions after a fixed age-limit,
grade tests for promotion, monetary rewards
for valuable suggestions from officers, and c os-
sification on relative values of work, Service-
Commissioner McPherson applauds the report
as helpful. It will, at any rate, be a good
thing for the Ministry to talk at large about
in the election campaign. But concerning
those appointments to the chief jobs why
not make them for three years only? As
things are, a man just hangs on and wastes
money and opportunity; pretty often, being
safe, he doesn’t really try to justify himself.
The less upset he makes, he argues, the
better.
The daily press is making much of the
“red-tape revelations” in the just-published
report of the accountant appointed by the
Victorian Government to investigate Public
Service methods. It may seem amazing to
the public that it takes 24 separate opera-
tions,” handled by 18 different officials, to
buy a new filing cabinet. Yet it is sate to
say that every other public service m Aus-
tralia has been bitten by the same bug, and
the Commonwealth’s Defence Department
would be the probable winner of the cham-
pionship belt. The most serious effects are
felt in the pay departments. It is a com-
mon thing for a tenderer to add 10 p.c. to his
price to reimburse him for delaj in getting
his bill paid.
Maoriland’s Acting Prime Minister
Downie Stewart blinked rapidly the other
day when handed a long envelope addressed
“The Finance Ministry, New Zealand,
America,” and bearing the postmark, of
Teheran, Persia. The contents were entirely
complimentary. It appears that the Per-
sians feel strong enough to stand a land
policy, and the fame of John McKenzie s land
laws having percolated to the tents of Omar,
particulars were desired. But the land legis-
lation of the Shivery Isles is not what it
used to be. It has been remoulded beyond
recognition in the hands of a governmental
party financed and inspired by large land-
owners.
The sun of 1926 set over Sydney in a
stormy financial sky. It was announced
that the. negotiation for a loan of iIo.OUO.UUU
in New York had closed abruptly. So young
Mr. McKell will hurry to London to try ms
hand at a negotiation which might make
a veteran financier feel anxious. The State
had £6,000,000 fallingdue for repayment in
1926-27 and £5,000,000 m 1927-28. One
or both of these sums have yet to be re-
newed, and there is an overdraft which
wants attention. N.S.W. raised £8,000,000
of J. Bull money during 1926, and tin.
second half of this floated with difficulty.
In fact, so much was left on the under-
writers’ hands that it could hardly be said
to float at all. If the new loans don tgo oil
thousands of men who have been withdrawn
from legitimate industry to either work or
loaf on loan jobs will be thrown idle, and tne
roads and tracks of the State are already
swarming with unemployed whom the cockles
won't hire because of Lang s insurance
scheme.
The unimproved capital value of the city
of Sydney (3327 acres) is now set down at
£55,000,000, which is over twice the figure
for 1914. The figure expanded by only 7 J
millions in the seven years 1914 to 19-L,
but rose by over 19 millions between the
latter date and the beginning of 1927. These
were the great loan years, and the land
boom naturally came with them. While it
exists it is good for the real-estate trader.
It is also good for the mercantile person
Mho sells his warehouse site and, resisting
all temptations to buy again, flees with his
money as Lot fled from the allotments of
Sodom. The man who stays does no more
business merely because the ground under
his business feet is valued at £lOO,OOO
instead of £50,000, but he pays more taxes,
which he must take out of somebody. And
if he hangs on another 10 years he may
die no richer for the boom. Enhanced land
values may come to stay in a place like
London, but London doesn’t flourish on
foreign loans.
Premier Lang, in urging the Assembly to
accept his Newspaper Tax, said: “I do not
propose to delay the committee many minutes
in connection with this simple little matter. ’
Over 70 years ago the Times wrote of _the
British Newspaper Tax (abolished 1855) :
“It is a tax on news, a tax on knowledge, a
tax on light, a tax on education, a tax on
truth, a tax on public opinion, a tax on
good order and good government, a tax on
society, a tax on the progress of human
affairs and on the working of human in-
stitutions.” It has taken 70 years to evolve
a Lang who treats all this as a “simple
little matter.”
That N.S.W. Premier Lang still antici-
pates an early election is suggested by the
hurried window-dressing in hand. Promi-
nent is child endowment, which is down to
be rushed through as soon as possible. Two
appeals for the Labor woman’s vote stand
out by themselves in the draft bill. One
provides that a son who is the sole support
of his mother or invalid sister may draw
6s. a week for each or either —a real sob
appeal that —and the other enjoins that the
endowment money for the children shall be
paid to mothers only—no husbands need
apply. It recalls somehow the popular
Amurrican ballad:—
Momma gets ham ; Momma gets jam ; Momma gets
turkey an’ all.
But poor Poppa, po-or Poppa, he gets nothin’ at all.
Promotion by seniority is notoriously a
Tory institution, and its abolition in the
A.I.F. was regarded as the overthrowing of
an ancient and barnacled idol. Yet, curi-
ously enough, it has of late years been
reconstituted as a fetich by the Labor move-
ment. The other day the engine-drivers and
firemen at Pyrmont (N.S.W.) power-house
learned with a gasp of horror that the man-
agement had promoted a deserving junior.
A frantic summons brought the union organ-
iser hot-foot, and a strike was threatened.
As the outraged official put it, “the union
has spent thousands of pounds to secure the
principle of seniority, and will spend thousands
more.” This craze for the encouragement
of individual ability must be sternly sup-
pressed.
Another instalment of the silence and gloom
so dear to the latter-day Labor politician
is promised. Hitherto Sydney Labor aider-
men were allowed to speak their minds and
argue points at Town Hall committee meet-
ings, though they voted as a solid block in
the Council when the committee proposals
came up for decision. But in future the
debate is to be done in caucus, and both in
committee and in Council the Labor aider-
man will arrive with his decision in his
pocket, and refuse to give reasons or to
listen to reason unless he is riled to the
point of declaring that he is looking after
the interests of his “friend” who is in the
motor trade. Yet there used to be great
bitterness about “secret diplomacy.”
Singapore is probably the first colony in
the British Empire, if not the first spot on
the globe, to give political representation to
half-castes as a class. Its Leg. Council now
lias a Eurasian member who speaks for the
mixed bloods of European and Asiatic
descent.
AS IN THE DAYS OF OLD.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“He was greatly impressed by the enormous possi-
bilities of Australia, and urged on his hearers the
lecessity of capturing the overseas market for its
riinarv products.” —Any visiting politician.
One summer-time in Eden
(The date is in dispute)
Saw Adam busy weedin’
And Eve preserving fruit.
For they, too, viewed with rapture
The possibilities;
They, too, were out to capture
The market overseas.
The pumpkin patch they tended.
They trained the sportive vine;
Its wild career they ended
And brought it into line.
They turned the sour crab-apple
From its mistaken ways;
They saw the melon dapple
Beneath the summer rays.
Since each and every daytime
Was filled with thoughts of gain,
They took the hours of playtime
From Abel and from Cain.
For childhood there’s no rapture,
For childhood there’s no ease,
With parents out to capture
The market overseas.
With glad anticipation
They sped the parting boat;
But only desolation
Came with the agent’s note;
In language brief and stark it
Told (Eve sat white and still)
That glutted was the market
And their returns were nil.
Then was it Cain slew 7 Abel
With an imported axe;
The serpent told his fable,
And “morals became lax”
(That’s how the papers put it) ;
And then, as you’ve supposed,
They “got the oil” to foot it—
The mortgagee foreclosed.
The higher criticism —
And possibly the low—
Views otherwise the schism
In Eden long ago.
But while the points they treasure
Seem nowhere to agree,
This has at least a measure
Of probability.
For men still view with rapture
The possibilities:
Men still set out to capture
The market overseas;
And in that vain endeavor
Still childhood is betrayed,
And ever and for ever
The tragedy is played.
The moral (canines bark it) :
There’s nothing in “the land”
Until you’ve got your market,
And got it close at hand.
W.A.
OSCAR WALTERS.


METROVICK.
HIGH TORQUE
HIGH EFFICIENCY
m
SQUIRREL CAGE
INDUCTION MOTORS
ff
•*•>l J
The leading features of our C.K.B. Motors
may be briefly summarised as follows:
1. Low initial cost.
2. Robustness.
3. High starting torque.
4. High efficiency.
5. Quick starting.
6. Lower starting current.
7. Reduced slip.
EUCtIUOU> -—-''coTlto
Melbourne. Sydney, Adelaide,
Brisbane and Wellington (N.Z.).
NOBEL-GLASGOW EXPLOSIVES.
The Standard of Quality throughout the Empire.
Monobet
Bamsonite
Gelatine Dynamite
Gelignite
Blasting Gelatine
Dynamite
Safety Fuse
Detonators
Cartridges
A..
ssa*r
£2*
m
Write
to
Challis House, Martin Place, Sydney.
The Martin Ditcher
Gives the best crop because it ditches,
cleans arid sweetens the land. Does the
work of 100 men. Costs little and does
a lot.
Campbell’s Buildings, Creek Street,
Brisbane.
519 Little Collins Street, Melbourne.
T. T. Buildings, Light Square,
Adelaide.
S.B.
The WILD CAT
COLUMN
The English, Scottish and Australian
Bank, from the time it absorbed the London
Bank of Australia and purchased the Com-
mercial Bank of Tasmania :
Profits on
Net Repur-
Busi- chase of
ness Old De- Written Re-
Profits. posits. Dividends. Off. serves.
June, £ £ £ £ £
1921 262,976 4519 10 p.c.= 128,807 22,500 1,445,541
1922 330,474 7064 10 „ „ 131,989 50,000 1,601,090
Premiums on shares, £18,150 . . 1,619,240
1923 395.348 6004 12-1 p.c.=178,494 50,000 1,792,09 S
1924 467,502 8002 12+,, „ 187,500 67,500 2.012,602
Premiums on shares, £302,331 . . 2,314,933
Transferred to capital, £300,000 . . 2,014,933
1925 505,981 2500 121p.e.=243,750 65,000 2,214,664
1926 522,308 750 12+ „ „ 281,250 82,000 2,374,472
There was a time when this bank seemed
more likely to grow into an archbishop than
a go-getter. It leaned to the ecclesiastical
in its architecture, and in the dim religious
light of its banking chambers you never felt
sure when you dipped into a rack whether
you were going to draw out a deposit-slip or
an “order of service.” But it really doesn’t
take many men to make a great change in
a bank —one man can do it if he is the right
size and gets near enough to the top. There
may be some luck in it, too. In this case
general-manager Wren seemed a few j „ars
ago to be taking chances—to be backing a
run of prosperous years to follow the war;
but lie came out all right, adding not only
to his bank’s profits but to his own prestige,
and greatly. strengthening not only the
bank’s position but his own. This paved
the way for the large extensions which he
subsequently carried through; and condi-
tions have stood by the bank ever since.
The profits last year were equal to more
than 23 p.c. of share capital. But so far
as that is concerned things may not be quite
as good as they look. Under an arrangement
with some old creditors, the bank has to
pay them 20 p.c. of its profits; and that
amount is passed to internal reserves, being
written off premises. Every other bank
makes provision of this sort; but not many
banks show it. That has to be remembered
in making comparisons.
When the hank reconstructed after the
troubles of the ’nineties it, as it seemed then,
loaded itself with a heavy burden of deben-
ture and inscribed stock; and to soften the
blow to stock-holders the bank undertook
to use 20 p.c. of the profits in buying up
deferred inscribed stock. The interest was
so low that later on and for many years
large profits were made on these repurchases.
Instead of the stock being a burden it has
provided the bank with a large amount (at
present £2,125,000) of fixed capital (fixed,
at any rate, except for the repurchase pro-
vision just mentioned) at a cheap rate. The
war, which has been the main factor in the
great change in the value of money, worked
thus into the bank’s hands. Between one
thing and another, the E., S. and A., while
paying its shareholders 12+ p.c., was thus
able last year to put £159,808 to visible re-
serves and write £82,000 off premises, to-
gether equal to 48 p.c. of the year’s profits.
The share capital is now £2,250,000, and
the visible reserves have passed that
amount. In other words, the bank’s own
funds have to earn only a shade over 6 p.c.
to pay the dividend of 12+ p.c., and visible
profits could shrink approximately £175,000
and still be equal to the requirements of a
12+ p.c. dividend.
Gross profits have not been moving much
during the last couple of years (exchange
earnings have probably shrunk), but the
position has been helped a trifle by the
reduction of English taxation:—
1923. 1924. 1925. 1926.
Gross
profits £1,251,197 £1,304,455 £1,355,328 £1,365,860
Expenses 557.039 616,279 663,387 662,163
Taxes 223,311 185,674 175,960 161,389
Net Profit £470,848 £502,502 £515,981 £542,308
The £20,000 difference between the net profit
there shown and the entry in the first table
is accounted for by a vote of that amount
to the officers’ provident fund. General exes.,
chiefly salaries, moved along pretty briskly
until last year. That had to be so; for even
bank managers find that 20s. won’t buy what
it used to.
Recent balance-sheet movements have been
as follows:
Liabilitiks.
1924. 1925. 1926.
Notes .. .. £1,185 £1,148 £1,128
Bills, etc. . . 2,013,871 1,967,092 2,393,680
Deposits at in-
terest . . 14,251,220 14,065,484 15,538,685
Free deposits.. 11,445,535 11,663,827 12,379,946
Total . . £27,711,811 £27,697,551 £30,313,439
Assets.
Liquids . . £12,119.058 £13,130,776 £14,947,252
Advances .. 20,720,840 20,635,697 21,542,691
Premises .. 804,980 782,457 762,684
Total . . £33,644,878 £34,548,930 £37,252,627
There is thus 49 p.c. of all liabilities (apart
from the debenture and inscribed stock) in
liquid shapes; this suggests that the bank
has not been able to find satisfactory employ-
ment for a good deal of the money which
has come into its hands in the past 12
months. And that means, of course, that
the hank has the means to earn more money
when the opportunities present themselves.
Having got into its very comfortable posi-
tion, it is very wise not to force matters.
The E., S. and A. can do itself more good
by maintaining a very strong liquid position
than in any other way. It gained the repu-
tation of being a little speculative. No
doubt, as things turned out, the policy paid
handsomely. Now it can well afford to build
up a name for holding exceptional reserves.
There is plenty of room for effort. Though
such large amounts of profit have been publicly
written off premises, this item stands in the
books at £762,684. Its properties (includ-
ing those taken over from the London and
the Commercial of Tasmania) are certainly
worth a great deal more; the Commercial of
Sydney, though it has been building out of
profits for years, lias £942,000 in premises.
There are others, however, which own more
and show far less.
The £5 shares paid to £3 are worth £8 ss.
The return at that figure is £4 11s. p.c.-
which suggests that something i s expected.
The visible net assets are £6 Is. per share.
* * # *
The Swan Brewery Co., Perth (West-
ralia) :
Dividends and
, Dividend Tax—,, Writ-
Pref. ten Re-
Profits. 6 p.c. Ordinary. Off. serves.
£ £* £/£*£,
Sept.,’l9.. 23,650 1500 20 p.c. = 20,290 51 248.823
Mar., ’20.. 35,824 1500 20 „ „ 20,290 309 262,548
Sept.,’2o.. 28,515 1500 20 ~ „ 20,290 50 269 223
Mar., ’21.. 29,074 1500 20 „ ~ 20,290 2,737 273,770
Sept.,’2l.. 20,855 1500 20 ~ ~ 20,290 4,172 268,693
Mar.,’22.. 29,073 1500 20 „ ~ 20,290 3,061 272,914
Sept.,’22.. 19,400 1500 16 ~ „ 16,232 4,630 269,952
Mar., ’23.. 33,618 1500 20 „ ~ 20,290 6,159 275,621
Sept.,’23.. 22,608 1500 16 ~ ~ 16,232 166 280,331
Premiums on new shares, £21,035.. 301,366
Mar.,’24.. 43,252 1500 16 p.c.= 20.527 10,161 312,430
Sept.,’24.. 27,115 1500 16 „ ~24,055 5,223 308,167
Mar.,’25.. 44,736 1500 16 ~,.24,655 326,748
Sept.,’2s.. 23,360 1500 16 ~,,24,655 425 323,528
Mar., ’26.. 46,391 1500 16 „ „ 24,655 10,182 333,582
Sept.,’26.. 28,112 1500 16 „ „ 24,655 10,076 325,463
The solid reserves, added to the handsome
div., makes the scrip highly attractive. The
255. shares were recently quoted b., 655.;
s., 675.; but sales are few and far between.
The co.’s last gift-giving was a long
time ago, but it was on a generous
scale—one for one. But such things
as bonus issues are not a matter of urgency
when shareholders are given a regular 16
p.c. Even the new shares are yielding a
fine return, for the premium collected was
only ss. Possibilities of trouble for the
trade are always present from the Cold Tea
Brigade and from Governments hungry for
revenue. Hitherto the brewing cos. and
Bung have experienced little difficulty in
passing on much of the taxation, but the
necessity of providing against contingencies
is greater to-day than it was a dozen years
ago. It is unlikely, however, that the
keen board —Harold and Montague Cohen
and Alfred Hart —under-estimate anything.
Swan’s headquarters are in Melbourne, and
Monty Cohen’s connection with the Carltou
and United must be valuable in many ways.
Of recent years the co. has made extensive
purchases of hotel properties in order to
insure its market as far as possible ; and it has
modernised its plant and many of its hotels.
The capital raised in 1924 was for these
purposes.
Liabilities at September 80 were as usual
mo_derate. Mortgages were £6500-odd less at
£45,144 ; £24,343 was owing on open accounts
and “accounts in credit, including goodwills
accruing £61,271,” was a trifle greater. Assets
more or less liquid totalled £185,321, chief
being the hook debts, loans on mortgage, etc.,,
aggregating £118,736. Fixed assets have been
written down strongly: plant and machinery
are in at £297,855 less £159,716 written off;
the rolling plant and casks at £44,157 less
£36,471: hotel properties and furniture at
£429,377 less £74,449. The hotel properties
are worth much more than their book value,
and the co. appears to be attending to the
matters of depreciation and modernisation.
But a good deal of the property values lies in
the licenses. The co. lias, however, consoli-
dated its position beyond any ordinary risk,
and the 16 p.c. seems assured: a shade over
7i p.c. on total visible funds suffices. The
absorption of its small competitor—Castle-
maine Brewery—should further simplify
things. It is understood that the
basis of the amalgamation was that share-
holders of the absorbed co. received three
Swan shares in return for every seven
Castlemaine, which seems to be very decent
treatment. Such amalgamations are prudent
wherever they can produce any reduction
of overhead charges. We are passing through
a period of inflation and extravagant living,
and when the pendulum swings the other
way a serious assault may be made on the
Trade. A sick devil is always a great
saint. And in this matter, as the U.S.
experience shows, the Dry party is always
ready to take advantage of its chances, and
ring in changes which are afterwards very
hard to get rid of.
* * * *
The Rosella Preserving and Manufac-
turing Co., Ltd., of Richmond (Vic.), which
took over a proprietary in 1910:
To Re- Nominal
Oct., Profits. Dividends. serves. Reserves.
1916. . £10,040 71 p.c. = £7,500 £2540 £22,615
1917.. 10,021 7+ „ „ 7,500 2521 25,136
Sept.,
1918.. 8,607 8 „ „ 7,500 1107 26,243
1919.. 14.724 10 „ „ 11,510 3214 29,457
1920.. 15,721 10 „ ~12,500 3221 32,678
1921.. 13,089 8 „ „ 10,000 3089 35,767
1922.. 18,183 12 „ ~16,983 1200 36,967
1923.. 24.155 121 „ „ 18,750 5405 42.372
1924.. 26,228 15 „ ~23,853 2375 44,747
1925.. 36,620 171 „ ~33,162 3458 48,205
Reserves capitalised, £25,000 . . 23,205
1926.. 44,813 171 p.c. = 39,404 5409 28,614
This co. started in 1911 with a capital of
£lOO,OOO and the backing of Moran and
Cato, an energetic firm of inter-State retail-
ers. Progress was sluggish till the war
ended, but since then the business has been
pushed with remarkable vigor, and scrip-
holders have shared in the prosperity. In May
last £25,000 was subscribed at par. Then
toward the close of the accounts, September
30, £25,000 was handed out in one fully-
paid share for every nine held. That brought
paid capital to £250,000. The gift-issue
made the 17+ p.c. div. sweeter even than
that; 5 p.c. of it, however, carries the label
of a bonus, probably because the distribu-
tions eat up nearly 9-10tlis of net earnings,
and there is not very substantial support
for capital in the £28,614 of reserves—in
the table described as nominal, because an
unspecified amount of goodwill is lumped
with the fixed assets. Still, as the co.’s
export trade is growing, and as new lines
have been added to the list of commodities
manufactured, which now total-73, the out-
look for earnings is bright, and the main-
tenance of the present dividend, plus bonus,
may not be impossible.
Here is a picture of the co.’s trade in
retrospect:—-
Manufacturing Written off
Profit, etc. Expenses. Plant, etc.
1911 .. £27,997 £16,123 £1,842
1913 . . 36,848 21,832 2,293
1915 . . 44,164 28,601 2,246
1920 - . . 65,811 44,256 ,5,833
1921 . . 62,524 44,357 5,078
1922 . . 80,226 54,764 7,278
1923 . - 96,883 63,758 8,971
1924 . . 107,235 72,691 8,316
1925 . . 123,648 75,728 11,643
1926 .. 147,391 90,437 12,311
Last year’s jump in outgoings arrests atten-
tion, but isn’t quite as unfavorable as it
looks. Trading exes., salaries, etc., ate up
only 61.3 p.c. of gross profits for the 12
months to September 30, compared with 61.3
p.c. and 67.7 p.c. for the two preceding terms.
Balance-sheet movements have been as fol-
low :
1921. 1924. 1925. 1926.
Capital . . £125,000 £174,258 £200,000 £250,000
Creditors,
deposits, etc. 64,105 58,366 65,046 53,905
Property, plant
and goodwill 79,958 120,270 143,733 153,067
Stock.. .. 92,839 108,613 113,795 87,987
Debtors and
bills . . 55,813 68,931 85,434 100,783
Cash, invest-
ments, etc.. . 0,263 3,409 3,452 30,086
In the last five years £73,109 has been added
to the omnibus item, property, plant and
goodwill, against which £48,519 has been
struck off over the same period. Nearly 50
p.c. of shareholders funds is in the £153,067
represented by fixed assets and goodwill. The
growth in book debts suggests increasing
business, and the erection of new offices and
storerooms, which shareholders are to be
asked to finance, is listed for the new year.
After allowing for payment of the div. and
subject to goodwill, there were net assets of
225. 3d. for each £1 of capital at September
30. But the market obviously has its eye on
earning capacity and a new issue; sellers,
when they are to be found, are asking 505.,
and buyers offering 48s. 6d.
* * * *
Carlton Hotel. Ltd. (Sydney) :
, Dividends———Towards Nomi-
Net Pref. Re- nal Re-
Oct., Profit. 8 p.c. Ordinary. serves, serves.
1921. . £3139 £l6OO 24 p.c. = £l5OO £39 £39
1922.. 2992 1600 Nil 1392 1431
1923.. 5111 1600 7 p.c. = 4200 742
1924.. 3118 1600 Nil 1518 2260
1925.. 7631 1600 9 p.c. = 5400 631 2891
1926.. 9706 1600 10 ~ ~ 6000 2106 4997
The hand of the new management is every-
where visible in the latest accounts; and
the last line in that table is a fine Christ-
mas box for somebody. Earlier figures re-
vealed a danger that the co. might ham-
string itself by handing out more than it
could afford. Of the £9706 netted for the
12 months to October 31 only a little more
than three-quarters was distributed. Never-
theless the ords. were generously treated
when the div. was lifted a point to 10 p.c.
The present free spending habits of the
public are not likely to last for ever, and that
makes the 21 p.c. margin between last year’s
earnings and distribution too narrow for the
10 p.c. to be safe. However, the board says
the full effect of the re-organisation lias not
been felt yet, and anticipates bigger revenue
in the current term. To begin with, the new
management looked inside the business for
economies—a healthy sign. Amongst other
things a “bed-and-breakfast” tariff and an a la
carte service were introduced. Gross takings
(£40,404) fell away £874, but a cut in every
item'of expenditure except wages enabled net
profit to be written £2075 greater. The
biggest saving was £1167 in interest, as a
result of discharging the old mortgage and
working on a daily overdraft. These figures
show the change :
1923. 1924. 1925. 1926.
Mortgages.. .. £47,000 £46,000 £45,000
Sundry creditors.. 3,781 4,337 5,154 £4,887
Overdraft . . . . 6,295 3,253 35,718
Leasehold, furnish-
ings, plant, license,
goodwill . . 135,790 133,572 129,803 125,902
Stocks . . . . 2,630 2,286 2,659 2,341
Book debts, etc... 1,466 1,366 1,270 2,676
Cash . . . . 4,016 794 5,455 74S
Every £ that can earn appears to be put
to its full use. Liquids are weaker, but
more than sufficient to meet trade creditors.
Excess liabilities are £34,840 compared with
£40,770 at the close of the 1925 accounts.
The position of the most vital item in the
balance-sheet is clearer. Leasehold, license
and goodwill is shown at cost, £119,667,
against which £13,796 has been set aside for
depreciation. The £2»87 struck off last year
was £705 above the average for the preced-
ing five years. What is more important,
shareholders can get comfort in the know-
ledge that if last year’s . lay-by (£2887) is
continued, it will about wipe out the whole
£119,667 when the lease expires a little over
36 years hence. The market’s opinion of the
change is expressed in buyers at 235., ex-
div., giving a return a little over 8+ p.c. p.a.
A year ago no better than 17s. was offered.
The Federal Building Society (Mel-
bourne) :
To Re- Re-
Sept., Profits. Dividends. serves, serves.
1916.. £13,430 71 p.c.= £9,600 £3830 £51,895
1917.. 13,549 7l „ „ 9,600 3949 55,844
1918.. 13,231 8 „ „ 10,240 2991 58,835
1919.. 13,635 8 „ ~ 10,240 3395 62,230
1920.. 13,552 8 ~ ~ 10,240 3312 65,542
1921.. 14,304 9 „ ~ 31,520 2784 68,326
1922.. 14,063 10 ~ „ 12,800 1863 70,189
1923.. 15,422 10 „ ~ 12,800 2622 72,811
Reserves capitalised, £64,000 . . 8,811
Share premiums, £lO.OOO .. 24,811
1924.. 16,891 7+p.c.= 14,400 2491 27,302
1925.. 17,764 71 „ ~14,400 3364 30,666
1920.. 15,251 8 „ „ 15,360 2891 33,557
The year’s profits were just a little better,
and as the margin was comfortable the div.
was moved up half a point. Deposits were
a shade lighter, and so were the advances:—
1910. 1914. 1920. 1924. 1926.
Deposits,
etc. .. £43,830 £84,862 £41,874 £72,746 £70,157
Advances 152,156 251,633 231,018 300,884 289,882
Fore-
closures 16,729 5,547 Nil Nil Nil
Cash, etc. 8,006 3,523 10,163 58 14,473
It is not likely that much of the cash (£9384)
and deposits (£5038) was idle after Septem-
ber 30. Interest earnings on the average
amount of advances was equal to 8+ p.c.,
an improved return. There was a decrease
in several items of expenditure, notably in
management and commission, and that
helped in the final result. Considering the
comparatively small amount of outside money
at risk (for every £1 of the public’s it had
more than £3 of its own) the co. is doing
very well. It is not likely to do much
better for shareholders unless it can attract
more deposits; and that is difficult nowadays
—more difficult, in fact, than it ought to be.
The A.P.A. —A well known business man
comments on the “Wild Cat” par (B.
23/12/’26) re the A.P.A. and on other mat-
ters not therein alluded to: —
(1) “Wild Cat” is wrong in one respect. The
board is not “riven by intrigue.” Northam, King
and Humphreys are working in unison and elected
Northam as chairman in place of P. R. Higgins.
Senator Millen has now joined the directorate at
the invitation of Northam, King and Humphreys.
(2) The advance of £7450 is being reduced, and
now stands at £6404. In addition the co. secured
a life policy from the borrower for £5OOO.
(3) It was only when Northam opposed the
merger scheme introduced by P. R. Higgins that
matters on the board became lively. The fact of
the borrower having interviewed directors individually
cannot be justified.
(4) The defence committees formed by share-
holders in various States sent representatives to the
extraordinary meeting referred to. The main ques-
tion, viz., the L.C.A. purchase, those members of
the defence committees did not wish to have dis-
cussed. Why? Because it would obviously strengthen


Want Some Advice?
GET
“THE ‘WILD CAT’ MONTHLY”
for January.
ENLARGED AND IMPROVED,
An invaluable guide—Companies
positions analysed—Share market
prospects examined.
“The ‘Wild Cat’ Monthly” has
“The Bulletin’s” “Wild Cat”
experience and data of 40 years
behind it.
“The Bulletin” Office,
2/- per copy; 22/6 per year.
We stock + GF -f- Malleable Fittings to suit
every requirement, and as there are over 7500
varieties to choose from, we can accommodate any
trade. For water, steam or gas. Will not split or
crack, and are correct in every detail. Obtainable
from William Adams & Co., Ltd., Sole Agents,
Sydney, Newcastle, Melbourne, Brisbane, Adelaide,
Perth. — Advt.
* * * *
Maintenance of water-purity in towrif supply
systems presents no problem where Pioneer Wood
Pipe is the conduit. Free from rust, and giving no
foothold for fungus, and immune from frosts and
electrolysis, its -smooth bore actually increases in
capacity when in use continually, and remains clean
and unobstructed throughout its entire long life.
For further particulars of this inexpensive, highly-
efficient wood pipe, send direct to the Australian
Wood Pipe Co., Ltd., Burns Bay Road, Lane Cove,
N.S.W. : or Footscrpv, Victoria.— Advt.
• * * *
WIRE ROPES—AUSTRALIAN MADE—Prices and
particulars from Bullivants’ Australian Co., Ltd.,
331-333 Kent Street, Sydney; B. K. Morton Pro-
prietary, Ltd., 85 Clarence Street, Sydney; J. R.
Reid and Sons, 401-403 Kent Street, Sydney, Success-
fully used all over the Commonwealth for all pur-
poses.— Advt.
# * * *
Inventors.—Have you an idea worth patenting?
Griffith & Hassel, Patent Attorney, 77 Castlereagh
Street, Sydney, obtain Commonwealth and foreign
patents.— Advt.
* * * •
IDEAS—Commonwealth and Foreign Patents
obtained. Colmson & Co., 483 Collins Street, Mel-
bourne, and Adelaide. Thirty yeais' practice. Write
us for Inventors’ Guide.— Advt.
• * » •
Are you interested in concrete mixing, etc.?
Arthur Leplastrier & Co. Pty., Ltd., Goldsbrough
House, Sydney; Collins House, Collins Street, Mel-
bourne ; 164 Edward Street, Brisbane; and 29
Morpliett Street, Adelaide—manufacture in Australia,
the famous “Multimix” Drum-type Concrete Mixers
from small to very large sizes, and now cater for
the small user with their “Tiltamix” One-man
One-barrowload Tilting-type Mixer. Write, wire or
telephone for full particulars to the nearest branch
of this Concrete Mixing Specialty Firm.— Advt.
The Mutual Life and Citizens’
Assurance Co. Ltd.
The
Probate Contract.
THE investment to meet the
INEVITABLE DEATH DUTIES.
As a man’s wealth accumulates he
should assist his executors by taking out
one of these contracts. They are issued
on a basis highly profitable to his estate,
besides providing the necessary cash to
meet the very substantial Death Duties
(State or Federal) on deceased estates,
without disturbing existing investments,
or necessitating heavy borrowing for
the purpose, a course which is bound
to involve a lengthy delay in the distri-
bution of the estate to the Legatees.
JOHN J. GAB VAN,
Managing Director.
&
YG
B O ON
FINEST DRY GIN
&. OLD TOM
DT
A
Swift & Company Ltd.. Australasian Agents. 26 30 Clarence St.. Sydney
Insure with the
Australian Mutual Fire Insurance Society, Limited.
ESTABLISHED 1872.
Head Office: Dalton House, 115 Pitt Street Sydney.
The Oldest Mutual Fire Office iri Australia.
Support the Australian Company which invests all its Funds in Australia.
losses from Tire. Marine, Personal Accident, Workmen’s Compensation,
Motor Car. Plate-Glass Breakage. Burglary, Guarantee, Live Stock,
Crops, Stacks, Hailstone, etc., Covered at Lowest Rates.
VICTORIAN BRANCH. 50 Queen Street, Melbourne.
QUEENSLAND BRANCH, 113 Eagle Street, Brisbane.
CLAIMS PROMPTLY AND EQUITABLY SETTLED.
CLAIMS AGENTS IN ALL PRINCIPAL COUNTRY TOWNS.
SYDNEY H. CARY, J.P., Chairman. G- HOWARD POPE, General Manager.
Queensland
Insurance Go.
Ltd.
Head Office:
Pitt & Bridge Streets,
Sydney.
The Largest
Australian Company
transacting
Fire, Marine. Personal
Accident and Sickness,
Burglary, Live Stock,
Public Risk, Boiler Ex-
plosion, Workers’ Com-
pensation, etc., etc.
N6rtham’s position as the only man on the old
board who put his foot down on this —to my mind
—unwise purchase. The facts are these. When
negotiations were opened for the purchase of the
L.C.A. in 1924, that co.’s shares stood at 12s.
Selby Wood, then managing director of the A.P.A.,
agreed to purchase these shares, paid up to 10s.,
at 355. each. Notwithstanding this arrangement, the
L.C.A. subsequently reduced the price to 305., owing,
as reported at the extraordinary meeting of November,
1924, to the good offices of the “then manager” of
the L.C.A. The L.C.A. had only paid some two
dividends during 13 years, and the establishment
account stood at £32,891, so that the shares had not
actual assets even for the face value of 10s., let
alone 30s. After the purchase, the agreement of
the manager of the L.C.A. was commuted on an
arrangement to pay him £30,000, but there is no
board minute whatsoever showing how or why the
£30,000 was to be paid. There is a nasty smell
about it. Higgins was in Maoriland when the
purchase agreement was entered into, but approved
it on his return. Northam was in England. After
his return he objected to any further payments to
the aforesaid manager, and carried his point. But
£22,000 had already gone west. He also opposed
Selby Wood’s attempted grab of £5OOO for con-
cluding the purchase. P. R. Higgins says he did
not approve it, but there is no note in the minutes
of any objection on his part to the extraordinary
meeting called in 1924 “by order of the board”
for this purpose. On the contrary, the circular
issued by him on October 21, 1924, implies a tacit
if not direct approval.
On the L.C.A. purchase the A.P.A. has actually
lost in hard cash £22,000 paid to the manager and
has paid some £127,600 not represented by any
assets whatsoever other than goodwill. Surely every
support should be given to those directors who were
instrumental in stopping the continuance of a
policy whereby shareholders and policy-holders’ assets
were being wasted! Can any sane shareholder
support those who do not wish to probe into the
L.C.A. purchase to the very fullest?
* * *. *
Garratt’S, Ltd.—Big changes that will
affect the current term’s profits have taken
place in this N.S.W. co.’s business: a
balance is struck at January 31, and the
sheet presented in May. The Fiat agency
for N. S. Wales, handled by Garratt’s since
pre-war days, has passed to Consolidated
Motors, Ltd., a new concern recently regis-
tered with a half-million capital, and which
lias taken over Garratt’s stock of Fiat cars.
Some profits, of course, will go with the old
business. As an offset, Garratt’s have
secured agencies from January 1 for Stand-
ard, Clyno and Hillman cars, all British
makes, and purchased a controlling interest
in Rover Cars, Ltd., the N. S. Wales dis-
tributors of Rover cars. A subsidiary, Cars
of England, Ltd., with a nominal capital of
£250,000 —the amount paid up is not stated
—was registered on December 1 to handle
the new agencies. The change will to some
extent upset the old organisation, and the
new lines will call for a good deal of spade-
work before all the £186,182 of Garratt’s
capital—£lol,ooo is in 10 p.c. cum. prefs.,
and the balance in ords., fully paid to 16s.
each —will be as profitably employed as a
12£ p.c. div. demands.
The new agencies are said to be for a
longer period than any previously held by
the co., but their value depends upon the
trade that can be won with them. The co.
still handles Overland, Whippet and Willys-
Knight cars and OverlandiCrossley and
Federal-Knight trucks, and there should be
very fair profits in them. The co. has had
an erratic career. Prior to 1917 nearly all
the profits were kept in the business. In
that year shareholders were rewarded with
25 p.c. bonus scrip. A good run of divs. fol-
lowed, but wlien values slumped in 1921 the
co. was flooded with stocks, prices had to
be cut and £21,296 was struck off capital
to square the 1922 accounts. Times have
since been prosperous, and so helped a good
recovery. The ords. received 12£ p.c. for
the 12 months to January 31, 1926, and 10
p.c. in the two preceding years. Since
1922 Fred Marks and his fellow-directors
have given regular attention to reserves, and
the £51,178 accumulated at the close
of last accounts (January 31, 1926) will
come in very handy now. In August last
the ords. changed hands at 20s. 6d.; last
month they had business at par, and 21s.
was given for the prefs.
* * * «
The coalition of Australian engineering
concerns which proposes to make automobiles
in this country has got the length of regis-
tering its name and deciding on the name of
the car it will build. It has taken the style
of National Motor Car Manufacturing Co.,
Ltd., and it will make the National car. Pre-
sent plans provide for concentration on only
one chassis, carrying a standardised engine,
with possibly three or four body styles. New
plant to the value of about £500,000 is being
installed to supplement the resources of the
six member companies, and it is hoped
shortly to have about 3000 men at work on
the new industry.
* * * *
The Wild Cat Monthly has been further
enlarged and improved. Several new sections
have been added —one devoted to mining,
another to the share market, a third to busi-
ness biographies. The last-named section
will provide an opportunity to follow the
history of the big businesses of Australia;
this will certainly be found interesting, and
ought to be helpful and inspiring to strag-
glers. A start will be made with Australia’s
largest bank, the N. S. Wales. The mining
section for the current month, to be pub-
lished on Saturday (January 8), will give
a bird’s-eye view of Malayan tin cos. No
effort is being spared to make the Monthly
an indispensable help to Australian inves-
tors. It can be had from most newsagents
or direct from The Bulletin offices, Sydney
and Melbourne; price 2s.
* * * *
Adelong Gold Estates (N.S.W.) made a
record with one dredge during its last half-
year, when 43980 z. were recovered; but the
feast has been followed by famine. The
“Wild Cat” issued a warning (23/12/’26)
that “yields may be irregular owing to
twists in the lead.” From an average of
just on 14d. per yd. for the last term values
have shrunk below 3id., while working costs
continue above 6d. The office guesses that
the ground ahead of the dredge lies outside
the real creek run, and, being merely a back-
wash, has filled up with much lighter
material. The operating face has been nar-
rowed, and an attempt made to follow
closely the old bed of Adelong Creek, where
the boring chart speaks on payable lines.
Meantime the co., in readiness for a flit, is
hustling round for alternate gold proposi-
tions. The trouble is that gold lias not made
boom prices, and costs have been on the
wing all the time. The co. s chief asset,
an art from an antiquated
plant, is hard cash. In these circumstances
the wonder is that the board has not looked
about for a suitable tin proposition. Its
management is so good that it shou c (o
well in the white metal unless a bi„ crack
shows in the market. #
The*last of the* rails of the Sydney-Broken
Hill railway have been laid, the final lengt
of metal bringing the line up to the easter
hnnk of the Darling at Menmdie the olu
settlement which Burke and Wills used as a
depot, and through whose cunostty the first
waggon-load of ore was broken on the Barrier
silver-field. The line on the western bank
runs to Broken Hill, where it more or less
connects with the Silverton “tram : theres is
a break of gauge at the Hill. It is not likely
that any direct benefits will accrue to the
Broken Hill mines from the new connection ,
the much shorter route to the coast at Port
Pirie will hold the vast bulk of the trade.
But the new line will mean keener com-
petition between Sydney and Adelaide m
chants, and there may be a small reduction
in cost of living. And cost of living matters
so much to the cos. nowadays—the pay ot
the workman follows it up «
some of the mines have been offering tlieir
employees necessaries of life at cost price.
Mount Morgan’s board has given share-
holders some idea of what the New \e
may hold for them. Boiled down, the
future will depend on the success or other-
wise of the open-cut. Contractors are already
taking out ore from this quarry, and much
experimental work has been _ done m
concentration of this ore. It gives hope that
the staff will improve on present methods ot
gold and copper recovery, while considerably
reducing costs. A big reverb, furnace of the
latest American design is m course ot erec-
tion, and an American expert has been
secured to operate this and train local men
to work it. It is estimated that the ore
available by open-cut mining amounts to
eight million tons. Here, again, an American
expert has been engaged, a mining engmeei
with special knowledge of open-cut mining.
Everything possible is being done to make
the new scheme a success. If that cannot
be managed, the directors make no secret
of their fear that the famous mine must
close down. „ _
Queensland has about struck bottom so far
as gold yield is concerned: the December out-
put is an estimate only for the present, but
for November only 4670 z. fine was reported,
and the year will close with a total of about
81600 z., compared with 42 9950 z m 19-5.
In the 20 years between 1891 and 1910 the
total gold output of the State was
£47,401,754, an average of £2,370,000 a year,
or say, 590,0000 z. The awful slump this
year has been due to non-production at
Mount Morgan; but there is at least a hope
of better things there. At present the btate
is averaging about half a mining dividend a
month.
* * * *
That stocks of tin should be drawn upon
notwithstanding the great rise in prices has
inflamed the imaginations of Australian pro-
moters of some Malayan tin propositions.
As they see things, Malaya and Siam have
practically a monopoly of the tin-market,
and the lyrists who compose the prospec-
tuses envision a dazzling range of prices
rising far beyond present figures But you
never can tell. High prices will inevitably
lead to increased endeavors to open new
or re-open old tin-bearing districts; and
they are far more numerous than some people
seem to think. Even the old Cornish mines
are being opened up again, to. be worked
by modern methods, and the higher prices
go the further afield will the prospectors
venture. Added to that is. the possibility
of the discovery of substitutes for tin.
Indeed, in industry substitutes are being
applied even now. But such considerations
will not perhaps carry much weight with
the increasingly numerous . speculators in
“Eastern” tin shares. Their chief concern
is a profit on the deal; what happens to
the mining industry once that has been
taken out is of precious little consequence.
* * # *
Tin-dredging yields for December include
42 tons for the two Kampong Kamunting
dredges, valued at £7440, and representing
a turnover of 126,000 c.y. in 1016 working
hours. One of the dredges lost 192 hours
while repairs were being done. Ulu Yam,
with 37 tons realising £6750, from 98,000
yards, made a better showing, as did the
irresolute Thuliawleik. The latter’s output
was hampered by stoppages for adjustments,
yet 36 tons, valued at £7OOO, came from the
42,000 yards treated. Asam Kumbang was
another show to suffer from machinery
troubles, 392 hours being wasted on boiler
repairs. Still, even allowing for that, a 12-
ton return from 41,000 yards is not glitter-
ing. Dredge trouble seems to have become a
regular feature of many of these tin shows
and seems to suggest that the highly devel-
oped plants are not as fool-proof as their
admirers make them out to be.
* * » *
The merger of Larut, Tupai and Kota and
Settlements Dredge, under the style of Larut
Tin Fields, early particulars of which were
printed here a couple of months ago, will
be finalised this month. Meetings of share-
holders in the three cos. (Settlements is
owned by Tupai and Kota) have been called
at Taiping (F.M.S.) for January 6 and 21
to confirm the merger and the consequent
voluntary liquidations. The new co. is carry-
ing on as from January 1.
* * * *
Nawng Pet (F.M.S.) continues its
struggle with the elements. A wet Decem-
ber found the co. a producer of but one ton
of tin oxide. The co. found 1926 a hungry
year; production was nominal, most of the
effort being to repair the havoc caused by
the inundations of November, 1925. Earlier
in its career the Pet was almost outed by
water shortage.
* * * *
Bell’s Plains Sluicing Do., liiugarooma
(Tas.), in 24,000 10s. shares, appears to
have sold out to a London crowd on a basis
of share for share at 20s. and £B5OO in cash
—the new co. to be in 120,000 20s. shares,
and to provide £20,000 actual cash as work-
ing capital. An area of 400 acres will be
operated.
* * * *
New Guinea Gold, a Bulolo flotation,
just added to the official list of Sydney Stock
Exchange, has reported by wire that the co.
has been granted three more leases, totalling
360 acres, on the lower Bulolo. In view of
local protests against the granting of
large leased areas on this field, the news is
interesting. The gound acquired is below the
confluence of Edie Creek and its sister tri-
butaries, and, it is hoped, will yield good
returns to a sluicing plant. There is need
for the utmost caution in dealing with Bulolo
claims and interests. The Wild Cat’s advice
is that the length of gold-bearing creeks is
very limited.
* * * *
Wiluna Co. (W.A.) is slowly building up
for the day when it is reckoned immense
tonnages will be treated and large profits
earned. Tests on ore witli the flotation
process are said to have proved satisfactory,
and, as a preliminary, a small pilot plant
is expected to be in operation at the end
of the year. The Wiluna lodes are found in
an ore channel miles long by 2 miles
wide, and the gold deposits occur in forma-
tions which in many respects resemble those
at Ivalgoorlie.
* * * *
Ivalgoorlie is wondering what is going to
happen to the Golden Horseshoe. Chairman
Prothero Jones, having tried and failed to
raise capital in Australia, has returned to
London, hoping that some form of financial
assistance will be recommended by the Fede-
ral Technical Committee, which is now con-
sidering the best ways and means of helping
the field. Horseshoe lias certainly been a
great mine, and deserves some consideration,
though it is a disgrace to the management
tnat any should be needed. From the incep-
tion of operations till June 30 last this 24-
acre block produced nearly £13,000,000
worth of gold and paid £3,652.500 in divs.,
£4,024,083 in wages, £379,212 in taxation
and £3,066,727 on plant, stores, etc. London
exes., of which the directors had a fair slice
in the shape of fees and pickings, absorbed
£226,159. Over 33 miles of development has
been done in the property. For 27 years up
to the end of 1924 divs. were declared annu-
ally, except for 1911, 1912 and 1914. During
the past two years losses have replaced
profits.
* * * *
If a good gold find is not soon made
in Westralia it will not be due to lack of
faith on the part of Perth investors. Fail-
ing to find new fields as often as formerly,
they are giving any old show a trial. Marie’s
Find, eight miles north of Bullfinch, is the
latest to receive attention. Fifteen years
ago a narrow, high-grade quartz reef was
located at Marie’s, but heavy water at
shallow depth beat the co. Gold values up
to 3oz. are in the mine all right, but it is
wasting money to attempt to get them with-
out suitable pumping equipment, and it is
doubtful if the cash put up by the crowd now
in possession is sufficient to do this.
* * * *
The story of many an old-time alluvial
goldfield is being repeated in the case of the
Bulolo River country in New Guinea. A
prospecting expedition has gone to look for
the “mother reef.” It is an old story, and one
that has failed to come true as often as
not. A lot of money was spent and many
high hopes dashed hunting for the “mother
reefs” of the gold that carpeted the wonder-
ful Palmer Valley in North Queensland.
They were sought for in many another
instance, including the Yodda, Gira and Lake-
kamu fields in Papua, and without success.
The “mother reef” theory is now accepted
by most alluvial hunters as an exploded one.
The gold in the river and creek claims
above cited, as well as that in the New
Guinea ground, was and is so “free” as to
point to the certainty that the whole forma-
tion that once held it has disintegrated
entirely. The greater the quantity of
gold-bearing alluvium and the thicker the
gold in it, the more convincing this explana-
tion seems to be. It is, at any rate, much
more feasible than the old one which visual-
ised a reef perennially shedding portions of
itself under the urge of water and weather,
but still retaining infinitely greater riches
in its untouched mass.


HIS HOUR!


<7he man
smoke them -
haSt tried
20 for F6
Ardath Tobacco Company Ltd: London
swe Express
CIGARETTES
SOCIETY
"and it's
printed with
WIMBLE'S INKS”
THE PRELIMINARY CANTER.
DORA: “I’ve been Worrying my husband every day for a month to buy me a new fur
coat.”
CLARA: “But you can’t wear a fur coat out this weather!"
DORA: “No, I know but, you see, I’ve got to wear my husband out first.
“Oxmead”: The story of the gold watch '
hidden in the pannikin of rum recalls an
incident told me 20 years ago by Peter ]
Kavanagh, perhaps the smartest detective ,
who ever operated in W.A. Peter was the
predecessor of the ill-fated Jack "W alsh at
Ivalgoorlie and tha terror of dealers in
illicitly-gotten gold. But even he had occasional
reverses. On one occasion he had satisfied
himself that a nice little cake of newly-
smelted gold with dubious antecedents had
gone into a two-roomed shack on the Golden
Mile. Armed with a search warrant he ran-
sacked the little place from floor to ceiling,
while a burly miner watched him apprehen-
sively, and the miner’s missus, wearing an
expression of injured innocence, stolidly
went on cooking the dinner. Nothing re-
warded the sleuth and he left baffled. But
I found out afterwards where it had been
planted,” he admitted ruefully. There was
a saucepan of Irish stew bubbling on the
hob, and the resourceful lady had popped the
incriminating metal into its savory depths
the moment that the ’tec knocked at the
door. It was the only place where he didn t
think of looking for it.
* * * * ,
“Sucre”: Talk about luck! Recently a
man travelling from Cunnamulla to Bris-
bane lost a large, yellow sapphire from its
ring setting. He searched the carriage
thoroughly, even untwisting the communi-
cation cord, but without result. Two days
after reaching Brisbane a policeman called
at his address and handed oyer the stone.
A fettler at Gowrie had spied it on the
permanent way and handed it over to the
nearest s.m., who in turn sent it on to
Toowoomba, where the police had been
advised of the traveller’s loss.
* * * *
“Flagwagger”: The battalion was to go
into the line that night, ready for an attack
at dawn upon an enemy position which
had already repulsed three vigorous on-
slaughts. B Company expected to suffer
more heavily than the rest, for it was
to take a number of formidable machine-
gun positions at all costs.
it was eat, drink and be merry, and the
estaminets were crowded. Few Diggers
wanted to take money into the line or to
ignore what might be the last chance ot
getting some value for it. But there was
one who did not drink. Private Blank
had recently returned from a leave in
Blighty, where he had met his affinity m the
shape of a Yorkshire lassie. Interrupting
the officers, who were making merry in a
farmhouse, he asked his O.O. for four hours
leave to visit the town, eight miles distant.
“Leave on this day!” exclaimed the O.C.
“What do you want leave for?” “I’m to be
married after the war,” came the reply,
“and I want to open a savings-bank
account.”
* * * *
“Fitz”: Yes, relics run in queer shapes.
North Sydney used to possess one of Lady
Mary Fitzroy, the
wife of an early
N. S. Wales Gover-
nor, who died by a
tragical accident —
her spirited horses
bolted in Parra-
matta Park and
brought up against
a tree near the
gates of old Gov-
ernment House.
The carriage ulti-
mately became the
property of Mr
Draper, of Red-
bank, near Molong,
and was long an
object of curiosity
to visitors. Finally
it was broken up,
and parts of it
were appropriated
by neighbors and
friends. The sil-
ver handle was re-
tained by Miss
Annie Draper, of
North Sydney, who
had an umbrella
mounted with it.
* *
“Taiaha” : Once
the pride of the
Union iCo.’s fleet,
the Monowai ran
between Melbourne
and the Bluff
(M.L.) 37 years
ago. On her served
x, later, as second
mate and eventu-
ally master, one
Carson, now har-
bormaster at Gis-
borne ; he spent his
honeymoon on her
25 years ago. By
a queer coinci-
dence it was to him
that the duty lately
fell of navigating
his old ship into a
selected position
and scuttling her
where she will act
as a sea-break for
a little quarry-
harbor in Maori-
land’s east coast.
His job was a
tricky one. but he
claims that he
never did a better
since the day of which this was the 25th
anniversary.
“Conklin” : Discreet inquiries
among four young married male
friends have confirmed my sus-
picion that the fateful question
is no longer put in the old, con-
ventional, ceremonious way. A
told me he broached the sub-
ject and secured a. prompt affir-
mative answer while straphang-
ing in a crowded motor-’bus.. B
became an accepted suitor just
as the pair emerged from be-
neath a breaker in the surf at
Maroubra. C and the lady who
is now Mrs. G were one day
imprisoned between floors in an
automatic lift, and with plenty
of time on their hands they not
only agreed to get married, but
fixed the date and arranged
details concerning the house,
furniture and honeymoon. D
became affianced just after col-
lecting a roll of notes at the
paying-out window of the tote
at Randwick. As for me, I
drew a blank when I proposed
beneatlj the moon at Collaroy
beach, but was accepted when
I had a second shot over a
marble-topped table in a noisy
teashop.
“Mars”: Speaking of unexpected meet-
ings in Australia with feminine acquaint-
ances of the war years (B. 16/12/'2C>).
When on leave in Edinburgh in 11)17 I met
a charming Scotch lassie. After seven
crowded days of glorious life we parted, she
to meet her next soldier pal and I on my
way back to France. Some months later
I was placed on a hospital ship for Aus-
tralia. As we pulled into the wharf at
Tort Melbourne the first familiar face I
saw was Jean’s, and to make matters worse
she seemed to be waving directly and ex-
citedly at me. Cold shivers ran up _ and
down my spine until I heard the Digger
next to me shouting enraptured greetings
to the young lady, which were answered in
kind Before we disembarked I discovered
that he had married her in Scotland while on
leave. „ .
* * . .*
Jun.” i Now being demolished in
Kaniva (Vic.) is the only hotel that has
TWO MINDS WITH BUT A SINGLE THOUGHT.
“I simply adore George .”
“So does he.”
cruised as a pirate ship. It was originally
known as the Pig and Whistle at Dimboola,
50 miles away, and the transfer of the
license to Kaniva was opposed by a gentle-
man of color, who feared competition in the
boarding-house trade. When the transfer
was granted, the pub was cut up and the sec-
tions carted by bullock-waggons to Kaniva..
The first cart to arrive flaunted a great
black flag with the skull and crossbones
painted thereon to mark the victory. I hat
was in 1880. Them was the days!
“Micawber Minor”: The _ old _ order
changes, and, apparently, the inferior offi-
cials who help to administer the law of civil
process change with it. The other day
an individual who was charged with run-
ning down a group of pedestrians with his
motor-car described himself as a bailift. i
have heard, with some disbelief, of a curate
who possesses a car, but this seems even
more incredible. The bailiffs of the storied
past have always been self-propelling, save
perhaps when some indignant householder
threw one down his front steps, and the
motive power was invariably beer.
HORT-HIC!-CULTURE!
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“A new stimulant for plants has been unearthed
in Adelaide by an amateur gardener, who finds that
stale beer given to hydrangeas makes the flowers
more brilliant and the blooms more prolific.”
I walk within my garden fair,
And all the nodding blossoms there
That whispered once so soft to me
Earth’s secrets and its poesy,
Now meet me with a solemn bow
And thickly murmur, “Well, here’sh how!
And rubicund are all my roses
As the most hardened topers’ noses.
The winsome, shrinking violet
Now offers brazenly to bet
The erstwhile more-than-modest pink
That she can throw a saucy wink
Will catch the sunflower’s jaundiced eye,
And win him from his love on high ;
And giggling over maudlin fancies
Are all my gold-and-purple pansies.
Some ditty rude the dahlia hums
To darkly-flushed geraniums;
Inclining still an ear to that,
The climbing pea has fallen flat.
No more sweet inspiration wells
From golden daffodilly bells,
In place of poesy I glean a
Loud hiccup from a soused verbena.
While even that hard-working lot
That lives within the kitchen plot
Regards me with a hideous leer;
The cauliflower is on its ear,
The pumpkin has an awful head,
And beets are more than usual red
To see my beans on such a bender,
Sad sight for vegetables tender!
The seasons all refuse to own,
And winter blooms are summer-blown.
’Tis matter not .of days but hours
Ere thirsty seeds be bloated flowers.
I fear this horticultural bust
I can’t endure. Indeed, I must,
If but to straighten out my borders,
Enforce some prohibition orders !
VICTORIA.
HASEN.
DENIALS.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“Mr. E. J. Jenkins, of Lithgow, informs us that
he is not the Mr. Edwin Jenkins, of the same
address, who reported to the police on December
23 that his pocket had been picked in Sydney.
The L. S. Pawnticket who smashed
His ear upon the Mountain road
Is not myself. I’ve never crashed —
I’m proud of how I bear my load
On festive days. And, free of cost,
The word I’d like to spread around,
I’m not the Pawnticket that’s lost
In Monday Herald’s “Lost and Found.”
And all connection I disclaim
With that namesake of mine who struck
The other day a transient fame
By winning Tatt.’s—I’ve no such luck.
My front name’s Percy; and it’s rot
To mix me up with Bill or Ed.
And, incidentally, I’m not
The Gus Pawnticket who is dead.
N.S.W.
PERCY PAWNTICKET.


“P.X.”: “Oxmead’s”
story (B. 30/12/’26)
of the interesting and
occasionally alcoholic
municipal council
meetings of the early
Westralian goldfields
recalls the most cheer-
ful meetings that ever
were chaired by Mr.
Mayor or Mr. Shire
President. It was in
the old days before
phylloxera had raised
its ugly head and
swept out so many
vineyards of northern
Victoria. Outside Ben-
digo were the shires
of Marong and Strath-
fieldsaye, and it was
a poor shire councillor
who didn’t own either
a vineyard or a
friendly interest in
one. The meetings
were all-day affairs,
starting at about 11
o’clock. Councillors
were so glad to see
one another and the
gentlemen of the press
that they had a drink
or two to show it.
The minutes having
been read and the
dreary outward and
inward correspondence
duly droned (one of
the shire clerks was
the father of Frank—
and the other —Bren-
nans), some council-
lor would remember
that he had a nice
sample of something
or other which he
would ask his col-
leagues to do him the
honor of passing an
opinion upon. Opinion
passed accordingly.
The reports of the
engineer and the other
officers were then
dealt with and the
treasurer's statement
was followed by a
remark from Council-
lor Durant that he
thought they might
well show their appre-
ciation of Mr. Shire
Treasurer Smith’s
work. Disappearance
of Shire Councillor
Durant and subse-
quent re-appearance
with three or four
bottles; appreciation
shown in the usual
manner. At 1.30
there was an adjourn-
ment for the solidest
lunch that the gentle-
men of the press ever
faced; and by the
time it was through,
six or eight council-
lors had begged their
colleagues to do them
the honor of passing
a n opinion upon
six or eight samples
of no doubt excellent
wine. Then the pro-
ceedings were resumed
in great good-fellow-
ship, and, with occa-
sional interruptions,
went on until five
o’clock or thereabouts,
by which time the
gentlemen of the
press, at any rate,
found considerable
difficulty in distin-
guishing between a
shire president and a
dog-tax.
“Herodot”: There are artists in arson,
too. Some years ago a Sydney suburban
brigade which had received a call to an
untenanted furnished house succeeded in
extinguishing the flames before they had
secured a hold. What puzzled the firemen
was the presence in the house of a large
black cat, nearly mad with fear. Investiga-
tion disclosed that the room in which the cat
had been locked and the outbreak had started
contained a kerosene-lamp, to which was
tied a piece of string with a large lump of
meat on its end. The lamp had been set
on the edge of the table, so. that the meat
dangled down, and the cat, jumping up and
grabbing the bait, had pulled over the lamp
and done the rest. Unfortunately for the
deviser of the plan, the fireman reached the
evidence before it was consumed.
* * * *
“Blum”: A fine imagination, inflexible
devotion to purpose, and a sense of humor
that gets somewhere near the mathematician s
mind-picture of a large minus quantity, are
the distinguishing characteristics of Harry
Ell, who keeps the flat town of Christ-
church (M.L.) from brooding overmuch
about its flatness. A Liberal in the
days when Liberal in Maoriland was synony-
mous with Laborite —they used the hyphen
for years—'Ell reached his apex in 1912 when
for a few short weeks he was Postmaster-
General in Tammas Mackenzie’s stop-gap
Ministry. He used those weeks to dot the
Shivery Isles with coin-in-the-slot telephones.
When his departmental advisers told him
the things would interfere with ordinary
telephone rentals, he fixed them with a
glittering eye and reminded them that the
slot contraptions work one way only. Rele-
gated to obscurity by an electorate that had
become class-conscious. Ell turned his
thoughts to the hills that overlook Christ-
church, and conceived the idea of building
a road right along the summit from Akaroa
to Sumner. The road was built and inter-
spersed with tea-rooms and rest-houses, and
Ell and his wife took up quarters in the
loftiest tea-house, where they dispense a
snack to the foot-sore traveller to this very
day. An old English stagecoach, with four
horses and a long tally-ho horn, was the
next development, the idea being to take
sight-seers along the road in this contrivance,
and it actually ran for a while. Lately,
however, the City Council refused a license
to the vehicle, reckoning that horses on hills
are dangerous and ought to be abolished.
Attacks on that decision will occupy Ell’s
time for the rest of his years—and he’s
only 64.
* * *■ *
“G.8.L.”: Some people are growling be-
cause the “un-Australian” names Bland-
fordia and Ainslie have been given to
two Canberra suburbs. Actually Blandfordia
is the name of a genus of Australian plants-
containing four species, one of which, Bland-
fordia nobilis, is the beautiful Christmas bell.
The name Ainslie perpetuates the memory
of a trooper who served in the Scots Greys
at the Battle of Waterloo. About 1822 he
arrived in Sydney, and was employed by
Robert Campbell, who in 1823 sent him to
Bathurst to take delivery of 6000 ewes from
the Government flocks. He was to find
grazing country for these at Goulburn
Plains; but, as he was not satisfied with that
district, he pushed on until he reached the
Molonglo, at a spot called by the natives Pial-
ligo. Here he founded a sheep-station for
Robert Campbell, and for many years man-
aged it. Some of the other suburbs of the
F'ederal Capital that could do with better
names are West Ridge, Northbourne, West-
lake and Eastlake. Surely the names of
some of our gallant explorers could be util-
ised, or, failing that, abo. words should be
employed.
# * * *
“Billy See”: Back in the boom days of
the Golden Mile (W.A.) a local identity
named Cadwallader held the job of grave-
digger for the Boulder Cemetery Board.
“Cad” was a staunch unionist, and nothing
would induce him to shift a spadeful of dirt
after the big mine whistles had sounded
five o’clock. Consequently, if the funeral
was held late in the day, there was a good
chance of the grave being left unfilled until
the following morning unless the friends of
the deceased turned to and did the work
themselves. One afternoon an undertaker
came along with his freight at a quarter to
five. “Cad” stayed only long enough to drop
the handful of “ashes to ashes, dust to dust”
gravel before calling it a day. That night
the fountains of the heavens opened, and
Dustopolis awoke next morning to a clean,
rain-washed landscape. The undertaker was
just starting on his breakfast rasher when
an amazed citizen burst in with the news
that a coffin was floating about in the ceme-
tery. Investigations showed that the open
grave had filled with flood water and the
cheap deal shell had floated out and started
on a voyage of its own. The grave had to be
pumped dry before the ark could be restored
to its place. “Cad” reckoned that the under-
taker was at fault for making his coffins
watertight, but the Cemetery Board held a
hurriedly-convened meeting, and directed the
sexton to grease liis swag-straps.
* * * *
“Mde. Paris”: The report that the Soviet
has bought two guillotines in Paris con-
firms the announcement that the Russian
Government intends to embark on a cam-
paign of strict economy. The hundreds of
thousands of executions which have taken
place in Russia since the monarchy dis-
appeared have mostly been by shooting. Even
allowing one cartridge to one bourgeois or
highbrow—and the average must have been
much higher than that, since the Russian
is a notoriously poor shot, and his Chinese
mercenaries are worse—the cost of ammuni-
tion must have been staggering. But the Red
Widow is cheapness itself. An occasional
honing of the knives—the makers would, no
doubt, supply “spares” —plus a little grease
for the slide, and there you are. Besides,
guillotining is more impressive than shoot-
ing. The latter is a tame process, even
the neophyte; but the guillotine—why, th*
crunch of the falling knife alone is worth
half a column in the evening papers.
* * * *
“Erua”: The King of Tonga’s wedding-
cake was not the only outsize one produced
in Maoriland. When the monarch’s buxom
daughter Princess Saloti (Charlotte) was
married, her cake, too, was made in Auck-
land, and was on view at a well-known
baker’s for some days. To give the interested
crowds something whereby to gauge its size,
the. bridal shoes were placed in the window
beside it, and as the Princess was of the
splendid proportions by which the ruling
family of the island are distinguished, the
shoes attracted nearly as much attention as
the cake.
* * * *
“G.8.L.”: The meaning of the native
word Canberra isn’t at all certain. One
authority on the capi-
tal’s early history, the
late W. Davis Wright,
was told by his father,
who had Black
Brother as his neigh-
bor for many years,
that the word signi-
fied “meeting-place.”
J. J. Bayliss states in
his “Vocabulary” that
it means “a young
kookaburra.” The
name Duntroon was
given to his station
at Pialligo by Robert
Campbell, who was a
younger son of the
last Laird of Ashfield.
The Ashfield family
was a branch of the
Campbells of Dun-
troon Castle, in
Argyllshire; Robert
Campbell’s monument
in St. Philip’s
Church, Sydney, states
that he was a “cadet
of Duntroon.” “Tid-
binbilla” is a corrup-
tion of the native
“jedbinbilla,” mean-
ing “a snow-capped
mountain.” The young
bloods of the Canberra
tribe underwent the
solemn and secret rites
of initiation at this
mountain. Other sta-
tions in the Territory
bearing native names
are Tuggranoqg (“cold
plain”), Cuppacumba-
long (“meeting of the
waters”), and Boo-
room ba (“wallaby
jumping over a
rock”). Lanyon sta-
tion was named in
honor of J. H. M.
Lanyon, who, with
James and William
Wright, took up land
beside the Murrum-
bidgee in 1835, about
15 miles from where
Federal Parliament
House now stands.
The name of the Good-
radigbee River is said
to have signified
“water running over
rocks.” The Cotter
River is named after
its discoverer, Garrett
Cotter, an early set-
tler in the Michelago
district. Queanbeyan
is shown as “Quin
Bein’’ in several early
references, and,
according to Bayliss,
it is aboriginal for “a
beautiful lady.”
* *
“Harold Hardupp”:
Fortunes are still
being made out of the
jumping prices of Syd-
ney property. The
trustees of the Royal
Arch (Scottish)
Masons bought a block
of land in Eliza beth-
street for their new
Temple. This was sold
later, as being too
small, for £30,000;
the total purchase
price having been
£16,300, there was
a £13,700 profit on
the deal. The College-
street land, where the
Temple is now being
erected, was bought
for £26,000, but the
Masons need only half
of it, and have been
offered £20,000 for
the balance. More
may be got if they hold it; but, even as it
is, they have a site valued by the A.M.P. at
£60,000; and, after deducting from the pur-
chase price the money they made on the first
deal, it cost them only £12,300.
THE NUANCES OF KNEES.
[For The Bulletin.]
Short-soeked, bare-legged, with skimpy skirt,
Era daring flapperhood had claimed her.
Too young to be acclaimed a flirt,
A tricksy sprite, yet no one blamed her;
With bold legs, neither lean nor fatty,
We said that Nancy’s knees were natty.
With added years, though skirts grew long
And legs were covered more discreetly,
The tempting instincts growing strong,
She gave us saucily, yet sweetly,
A lawless glimpse; or did one’s fancy
Suggest the naughty knees of Nancy?
Fashion, alas, has done its worst,
And dissipates the fond delusion!
Skirts, briefer still, the bubble burst,
Romance is put to dire confusion;
Now every trifling, wayward breeze
Discloses Nancy’s knotty knees.
S.A.
BILL O’C.
THE BOTTLE-OH
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
THE bottle-oh is in the street,
And dirge-like is his cry —
The knell of pleasures all too fleet
And cups that soon run dry.
An undertaker, grim and hoarse,
He comes, in manner grey,
The banquet done, to bear the corse
Of holiday away.
N.s.W.
The flags hang ragged on the walls,
The once-gay drapings droop;
The trump of labor shrilly calls,
And back to work we troop.
The carnival has ceased its noise,
Hushed is the children’s glee —
Already broken are their toys,
Though not as broke as we.
The hotile-oh howls on his way,
And each one as he wends
To work knows that the holiday
With that shrill yelping ends.
As we return to mundane scenes —
And some are glad, at least —
He gathers up the dead marines
That linger from the feast.
HAMER.
HEART UP!
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“This Thursday, Elizabeth-street entrance Flinders-
street. Don’t be shy. About 7 p.m.”—Argus
Agony ad.
Maiden, for I guess you are one,
Fair unknown and passing far one,
You have found, ’tis obvious, favor
In his eye.
If you fain would know him better
Let not virgin coyness fetter,
Meet him without quake or quaver,
Don’t be shy.
Youth, if you’ve a heart that’s sinking
To your boots and courage shrinking
When you conjure up her image
You must try
Not to let such tremors beat you.
See, she comes half-way to meet you!
Shoulder boldly through the scrimmage.
Don’t be shy.
N.S.W.
IFORD.


m
m
The TOPNOTCH’Scotctt
SayWfißfi Man 11
I
MS'
n
<• -
''l'-*;'
■m
ALWAYS ORDER
Schweppes’
Dry Ginger Ale
the Only Original.
REFUSE SUBSTITUTES
AND IMITATIONS.
Manufactured only by
Schweppes, Limited.
“Trion”: White Australians have suc-
cumbed to the frontal attack of the Dagoes
SCANDAL.
“An ’ she said yon said my lip-salve gave my hoy painter’s colic
when you knew puff puffcekly well that lie was a plumber an
got lead-poisoned .”
in the fish business in Sydney, but a few of
them still drive a decent trade from baskets,
These remnants are now threatened with an
attack in the rear, so to speak, from the
S!W . ZTeftndi “ d betw“n
Australian hover and siller o'} fish at sea-
if vn nl Ant fho fish have iust been
hauled out of the water. and it is seldom that
the buyer’s confidence is misplaced. Taking
advantage of this confidence. Dagoes are
now entering the fish-basket business, with
the difference that they retail fish bought
a couple of days previously at the fish mar-
kets. One of these was lucky that he
escaped a ducking near the Spit Bridge on
a recent Sunday when a wrathful buyer
brought back a couple of flathead he had
purchased a quarter of an hour previously.
With a glint in his eye the wrathful one
explained to a sympathiser that he had
presented the flathead to his wife as his
FATHER ( from, above) : “ Ailsa , if your young man is waiting to see the sun rise, tell
him a better view can be obtained from the roof-garden."
day’s catch. He didn’t say what the wife
said, but it can hardly have sounded as bad
as the flatliead smelt. It needs but a few
experiences like this and an honest amateur
fisherman won’t know where to buy his
catch with safety.
“Bris”: A novel excuse was given in a
compulsory voting prosecution in the Bris-
bane Police Court. Asked why he had
declined to be dealt
with by the Com-
monwealth Elec-
toral Officer (as
the great majority
of these cases are),
a youthful non-
voter replied virtu-
ously: “I wouldn’t
have anything to
do with him; he’s
only scabbing on a
magistrate.” But
even that did not
save him from a
fine.
* *
“Mulgo” : I can
beat “Spring-
sure ’s” lucky
escape from a
motor smash (B.
16/12/’26). The
other night a car
hit a dog on Syden-
ham-road, Marrick-
ville (Sydney),
skidded, and then
turned a double
somersault, land-
ing on the hood,
which was squash-
ed. The driver was
thrown on to the
footpath, but
escaped unhurt: a
woman, who had a
baby on her lap,
was extricated after
m u c h difficulty
from under the
wreckage, and
neither had a
scratch. In fact,
the only things
that suffered
damage were the
car and the dog—
the latter one of the very few surviving
tykes on Sydenham-road, all the others, in-
cluding mine, having been run over and
killed.
* * * *
“Cartot” : The most interesting of all the
Christmas celebrations I have attended was
a banquet to the down-and-outs of Mel-
bourne, organised by a sporting journalist
and paid for by a gentleman who had
obtained some notoriety in connection with
the Fitzroy vendetta and a diamond robbery.
It was held in a city gymnasium, and was
largely attended. There were over a score
of assistants and helpers, almost every one
of wdiom was well known in the underworld
and the possessor of a police record, lne
doorkeeper had once been tried for murder,
and the vice-chairman had only recently fin-
ished five years in Pentridge. A car which
was busily engaged in bringing old and feeble
guests to the banquet had played its part in
an encounter where revolver shots were ex-
changed by its occupants with the police, the
bullet-holes being still visible in the hood.
Everything went swimmingly, and the pro-
ceedings ended with the singing of hymns, the
harmony being led by the doorkeeper and a
brawny person whom the police alleged to be
a professional garrotter. At the conchision
of the shivoo what remained of the food was
made up into parcels and presented to the
departing guests. Several detectives dropped
in towards the close, accepted cigars from
the helpers and exchanged the compliments of
the season of peace and goodwill with them.
* * * *
“C. Coral”: About 45 years ago a run-
away Yankee sailor settled in the Torres
Strait Islands (at that time not under the
Queensland Government), and allied him-
self with a dusky belle, who is still alive.
The resulting progeny were all fine, up-
standing children, who in turn linked tip
with Island and South Sea wives. One of
the old man’s grandsons is now married,
his wife being of mixed European and
Samoan stock, and the other day the Stork
called witl his customary gift. The infant
is quite pale in tint—“all-same white baby”
is the way in which the admiring natives
congratulate the happy pair—but the out-
standing feature is its crop of brilliant red
hair. The original progenitor of the family
figured an auburn thatch amongst his other
striking characteristics, and this has couie
out in the fourth generation. #
“Ex-Dig”: When the River Clyde was
driven ashore at Gallipoli to enable e
Hampshires, Munsters, Dublin Fusiliers, the
Naval Division and a spattering of Austra-
lian troops to effect a side attack on t e
peninsula, the vessel was regarded as a
cheap sacrifice to the exigencies ot war ,
but when the war was over and the shell-
scarred vessel was still lying on Beach
“V ” ideas of salvage were born. _Llie Rritisn
Admiralty had doubts about the job being
worth while and was glad to take ill,
from a Spanish firm for the vessel as she
stood. Now, as the Angela, she is carrying
cargoes of Spanish onions and such things
to places where they are most needed.. Dig-
gers who participated in the disappointing-
proceedings, or were thereabouts when they
were undertaken, may be glad to hear that
the old vessel still survives. Or again they
may not; there is something about her pre-
sent use - that jars on sentiment.
“Phil L.” : The agent had explained that
the vendor was agreeable to erect a bungalow
on the block for sale. The buyer need only
pay a deposit, sec the architect, sign a mort-
gage, and he would be in a home of Ins own
choosing. The block was sold to one bpen-
low, who ordered a bungalow. It was
one of the office-boys who discovered that
the dwelling had been erected upon the
wrong block.. All the bluffing of the
agent could not dispose of the terrible fact.
He was faced with two alternatives: pull
the place down and re-erect it, or buy the
block on which it stood. He decided upon
the latter. The value of the land was about
£4 per foot. He discovered that the owner
lived in Brisbane, whither he went by first
train. His man was living at a boarding-
house, where luckily he could also obtain
accommodation. Stealthily he led the con-
versation to Sydney, then to land-owning,
and finally to the area in which they were
both interested. At length his quarry re-
marked: “I’ve got a bit of land somewhere
there.” More stealthy suggestions led him
to say that he merely bought the block as a
spec., and doubted whether it was much
good. The agent decided upon a speedy
killing, and asked what the other’s price
might be, to be met with an evasive “Oh, I
didn’t want to sell for a year or so.’ Bed-
time found him no further forward. He con-
tained himself in patience until next night,
only to find that his quarry was spending the
evening at a theatre. It was the third night
before he broached the subject again by
offering £s—a handsome profit for the specu-
lator, who, however, refused it. Becoming
desperate, the agent decided that he must
buy the land and went up to £7, when
THE PERFECT GENTLEMAN.
“I don’t Clinic lie's (it all polite. He never
wags his tail in thanks for anything.
“ That’s his good manners. He knows how
small our flat is.”
the other remarked that it seemed “damn
queer,” and expressed the belief that oil or
gold had been discovered on his land. Hastily
the agent offered £lO with the proviso that
should oil or any mineral wealth be found
on or near the land, the sale would be void,
and on these terms the contract was made.
Three months afterwards, the Brisbane man
strolled into the agent's office. He had
come down for Christmas. “And to bewaij
his fate,” thought the agent —“come to tell
me that had he known about the house he
would have wanted double.” “Well, said
the Brisbane man, “you’re a beauty. Why
didn’t you tell me of the mistake? I would
have sold you the land for what it cost
me.”
TOUGH LUCK.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“The change from a seaport to an inland city
will be felt keenly for a while by those public
servants who are leaving to take up permanent resi-
dence at Canberra.” — Age.
The chaps who graft from 10 to, 4
Will miss old Ocean’s pleasant roar;
The common objects of the shore
Shall thrill their honest souls no more
At Canberra.
No more they’ll lie at close of day
To speculate, as was their way,
On what the wild white horses say,
At Canberra.
Golf there will be, of course, and bowls,
And picnics upon verdant knolls,
But no careering through the shoals,
No surfing where the breaker rolls,
At Canberra ;
No white-winged craft to rest the eyes
Of men from desks who jaded rise,
No ropes to pull for toil-worn guys
At Canberra.
More bracing far the mountain air,
And wives and sweethearts just as fair,
But never radiant surf-queens there
Or mermaids, generously bare,
At Canberra ;
No bathing costumes or machines,
Nought to recall old seaside scenes,
Except, perhaps, the dead marines
At Canberra.
The civil servant Melbourne way
Still takes his week-end holiday
Where fish are biting in the Bay,
But no such thrills can he essay
At Canberra,
Or pack the lunch, with beer and wine,
Or board the boat, with rod and line,
To haul the flathead through the brine,
At Canberra.
On Cotter’s pebbly bed, no doubt,
Are stacks of trusty, lusty trout,
But should he fail to yank them out
With quiet content or gleeful shout
At Canberra,
He’ll have to amble home distraught,
His jaunt may be with trouble fraught
When no exhibit can be bomjht
To show the missus what he caught
At Canberra.
N.S.W.
T. THE R.
INK.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Ink!
Just think
How through this world we slink,
Putting down on paper white
Things we know we shouldn’t write,
Making statements impolite
Of what we think
In ink !
In ink
A gink
Writes to a flapper pink
Letters that are quite unwise,
And he knows they’re mostly lies,
Till escape he vainly tries —
All through a wink
And ink !
The link
Of ink
Brings many to the brink
Of a callous court’s decree.
Here’s the proof—Exhibit B,
Shown in all its perfidy:
You cannot blink
That ink !
"N.S.W,
A. H. A.


Usher’s Hotel Ltd.
Castlereagh Street, Sydney.
A first-class new and up-to-date
modern hotel.
Running hot and cold water in all bed-
rooms and many have Bath de Luxe.
Automatic bedside telephones.
English and French Cuisine.
New Marble Bar, spacious and airy.
For perfection of service, comfort
and cleanliness, Usher’s Ltd. is un-
equalled.
Inclusive Terms, apply
MANAGER.
IS
IO
s
0
3
a
A
*
T
5
‘Px & R” Watch, 16-jewelled Lever, in Oxidised
Steel Case, open face, pocket type, 66/-
The “Fx&R” Watch
The Most Extraordinary
Value of the Age.
The movements are on the lever principle.
They have brequet over-coil balance springs.
They are f-plate Levers.
They are jewelled in 15 holes.
They have compensated and adjusted balances.
They have jewel ruby rollers.
They are specially made to stand rough riding
and knocking about.
They keep time to within seconds a months.
They are guaranteed for 15 years, and kept in
order (breakages excepted) for one year.
They are made in every style of case.
Fairfax & Roberts, Ltd.,
The Oldest Jewellery House in Sydney,
23 and 25 JHunter Street.
Plain Figures—Cash Only.
EVERREADY]
;i ■■•ytj /["///
35
w
FOR ALL
EMERGENCIES-
NEVER FAIL
m
Look lot tho Tradomatfc f Agfuu E\ iry lnn,
Write for Illustrated Catalogue.
The Ever-Ready Co. (Gt. Britain) Ltd.
163 Pin Stre«t, Sydney
PERSONAL
ITEMS
GLOBE
MEAT EXTRACT
GLOBE BRAND
Alex. Campbell, just dead, was a man of
many parts. He was the youngest of the
group of Scots that developed the Broken
Hill mines, others being George MacCul-
loch, Willie Jamieson, W. P. MacGregor
and William Knox. Like most of his co-
directors of the Barrier Ranges co., Campbell
was a pastoralist. For years he was one of
the best billiard-players in Melbourne, and
his pencil sketches made on blotting-pads at
directors’ meetings are remembered with joy.
Just-knighted John Bowser is the first
dyed-in-the-wool newspaperman to be Vic.
Speaker—he owns and edits the Wangaratta
Chronicle. Graham Berry, a predecessor,
had some sort of association with a Geelong
paper. Of the 94 other members returned
to the Assembly on the day that Bowser
was first elected in 1894, only three (Pea-
cock, Prendergast and Downward) remain
to keep him companv. Peacock and Prendy
alone were there before him.
The genius of J. F. Archibald gets a new
tribute with the success of the N.S.W. Cancer
Appeal, which has gathered in £119,000, and
more may yet be added. Expenses are a
little over £9OOO, so that the objective has
been substantially exceeded. Of the £70,000
or so he made out of TnE Bulletin and
saved Archibald willed £7OOO for cancer re-
rearch, and that started the ball rolling. To
utilise the money a committee of directors
was appointed, and the University set aside
a fine building for a bio-physical laboratory
and spent £12,500 on equipment.
The swankiest religious show these southern
parts have known will be staged in Sydney
in a little over 12 months. The Eucharistic
Congress, held in a different centre every
two years, will bring to the Harbor City
scarlet-clad cardinals from Rome, a whole
raft of bishops and minor dignitaries by
the ton. Arrangements have already been
under way for some months. About a quar-
ter of a million visitors are expected, and a
gigantic procession of the Host through the
streets will be an outstanding event. The
Papal delegates will bring with them,
amongst other things, the Pope’s blessing
and many an honor for prelate, priest and
layman. It is tipped that Dr. Kelly’s con-
tribution to Sydney architecture, the com-
pletion of St. Mary’s, will be rewarded by
a red robe and the wide-brimmed roof that
tops off a Prince of the Church.
The retirement of Belle Golding from her
job in the N.S.W. Labor Department draws
attention to a curious hereditary association
in politics. The father of the Golding sis-
ters —Belle, Kate and Annie—came to Aus-
tralia as secretary to Maoriland’s G.0.M.,
George Grey, most impetuous of aris-
tocratic democrats. Grey was the most
influential of those who, after the dis-
astrous maritime strike of 1890, told
the wage-earners that their only hope
of betterment lay in political organisation.
The paternal Golding remained a disciple of
his chief after the latter’s translation across
the Tasman Sea, but his daughters were
mainly devoted to womanhood suffrage,
which, strangely enough, was the pet cause
of John Hall, Grey’s bitterest opponent in
Fernland politics. The Australian Labor
party’s adoption of the principle of adult
suffrage, irrespective of sex, and its advocacy
of economic legislation in which women were
particularly interested, earned the allegiance
of the sisters. It was the John See Govern-
ment which gave Belle her first Government
appointment as inspector under the Early-
closing Act; and the strongly anti-Labor
Wade made her the first woman inspector
under the Industrial Disputes Act. The sis-
ters were all school-teachers to begin with.
The death in a motor accident of A. R.
McLaurin, of Holbrook (N.S.W.), on Christ-
mas Day, robbed N.S.W. polo of one of its
doughtiest stick-swingers. With the three
Ross brothers, he made up the Harden team,
holders of the Dudley Cup, which carries
with it the State championship. He was
driving alone when his car capsized and he
was picked up later with a broken back, to
die in Albury Hospital.
Melbourne is mourning ex-Mayor Davey,
who was in the City Council for close on
a quarter of a century. He passed out at
Sorrento, where he was spending the Christ-
mas holidays. As head of the accountancy
firm of Davey, Flack and Co. he was a
familiar figure in the city for 55 years.
Married three times, he is survived by No.
3 and three children. He was 82.
Charlie Skerrett, who succeeded benign
old Robert Stout as Maoriland’s Chief Jus-
tice, gave up a great many thousands a year
when he lengthened his wig. For years he
had been the champion verdict-winner of
the elongated islands, and no cause cel&bre
was complete without him. He was not a
witness-bullier unless the witness was a
most contumelious and defiant liar, and his
manner to a jury was compact of suavity
and camaraderie. Unlike Stout, who re-
garded the amusements of common men as
snares laid by the Devil—though as a con-
firmed agnostic he didn’t believe in the Devil
—Skerrett was a sport. No race meeting of
any importance was held in his absence if
he was in the country, and it is a legend
that he accepted many a brief which other-
wise wouldn’t have tempted him because it
would take him to Ellerslie or Riccarton at
a rnoe-time. On such occasions his silk
would partially cover a check suit that was
later envied by every bookie on the course.
Yet he is a better judge of law than he is
even of horses. They made him a knight at
the New Year.
“Hix”: Despite “Elsinore” (B. 9/12/’26),
John Ridley of Adelaide invented the Aus-
tralian stripper—in 1843. It was one of
those inventions that come out of a blue sky.
It had no forerunner. The inventor presented
his invention to his countrymen free, and it
proved a glorious gift. The late Hugh Victor
McKay always had a picture of Ridley on
the walls of his office. Some Aussie-German
oockies say reaper when they mean stripper,
and this has probably confused “Elsinore.”
The Rev. Patrick Bell, of Carmyllie, Scot-
land, invented a reaper in 1826, but this was
really a side-delivery mower having only a
mere ghost of relationship to Ridley’s great
machine.
Maoriland made a brave gesture the other
day and gazetted about 20 women as Jus-
tices of the Peace. The most notable was
Elizabeth Best Taylor, widow of Tommy
Taylor, who came nearest being a great
political leader of any man since Grey and
Seddon. Taylor called himself an Indepen-
dent Liberal, hated Seddon like poison, hated
strong drink worse than poison, and was
the most-cursed and best-loved politician in
the _ Shivery Isles. His best constructive
achievement was the road-construction pro-
gramme he gave to his native city, iChrist-
church, when he became Mayor, just a few
weeks before his death. He was the first
citizen to see the residential possibilities of
the Cashmere Hills, and his widow lives still
in the home he founded there. The suburb
is now the richest and most exclusive of all.
W. C. ANGWIN, Minister for Lands, and
at times Acting-Premier, in the W.A.
Labor Government. He is to be the
State’s next Agent-General.
“0.P.H.”: Baronet Rupert Clarke, who
died at Monte Carlo on Christmas Day, had
the pluck when he was a comparatively new
member of the Vic. Leg. Council —in Sep-
tember, 1899 —to vote for the Turner Gov-
ernment’s bill to confer the Assembly fran-
chise on women. Not only did he vote for
the measure, but in a full House (45 out of
the 48 landlords were present) he combated
well all the arguments against it. He was
particularly scornful in respect to the con-
tention employed by some of the opponents
that women could not defend the country like
men. He assumed the r6le of prophet, and
predicted (with wonderful accuracy, as his-
tory proved) how resourceful the so-called
weaker sex would be if a big conflict occurred.
He went the length of advocating the election
of women to Parliament so that they might
become envoys of peace. The bill was re-
jected by 27 votes to 17, and women had to
wait for nearly 10 years before the Bent Gov-
ernment carried the measure, proclaimed on
March 31, 1909.
“Seebee” : As 22 J years have elapsed since
Baronet Rupert Clarke sat in the Vic. Leg.
Council his presence there is hardly even a
memory. Sternberg, who is very old, and
Payne, who is not a very keen politician, are
the only two now in the House who sat with
him. Whatever were the faults of the
Chambah in Rupert’s day, it at any rate con-
tained a bunch of big men and some good
second-raters. Now it contains only medio-
crities and sub-mediocrities. Rupert wit-
nessed the achievement of Federation and the
“Yes, I’ll give you a meal if you will chop
me some wood.”
“H’m! I’d like to have a look at the menu
first, Mum!”
reform of the State Parliament and then he
dropped out. He was at least as good a
member as his late dad, the first baronet.
His half-brother Russell came into the House
in 1910 and his other half-brother Prank
(now president) in 1913.
R. S. Archer, who died at Rockhampton
(Q.) last week, was the last of the pioneer
members of a family which has bulked big
in Queensland pastoral and political life. He
was known as Robert, which was his front
name, and nobody ever dared to call him
Bob. He came of the Scottish-Scandinavian
stock that produced William Archer, who cut
up plays, and that other Archer who showed
shipwrights how to cut up wood so skilfully
that it could dodge the grip of Arctic ice-
floes, Nansen’s Pram being the result. Robert
Archer was sent to his uncles, Charles and
William, in Bananaland before he was out of
his ’teens. He inherited the lakeside station
of Gracemere, originally taken up by his
uncles, and he was the owner of other C.Q.
properties at the time of his death, as well
as local chairman of directors of Mount
Morgan. He was a notable breeder of
Herefords, and did much to improve the
quality of the “baldies” in the northern
State.
John Joseph Garvan, N.S.W.’s latest
knight, was born with a silver spoon in his
mouth. When only 26 he succeeded his
father, James Garvan, a high light in N.S.W.
politics, as managing director of the Citizens’
Life Assurance Co., which the elder man
founded; but the son made for himself a
great reputation as a currency and exchange
expert. At the outbreak of the war he be-
came one of the Federal Council on Finance,
and amongst the other expert jobs he has
held are the chairmanship of the Common-
wealth Bank and membership of a commis-
sion set up to inquire into the incidence of
Commonwealth Taxation. His health broke
down recently, but he has recovered suffi-
ciently to do a few holes at Rose Bay.
William McMillan’s death leaves Joe
Carruthers the sole survivor of the 10 reps,
of the Ma State at the Federal Convention
or 1897, which framed the Constitution. The
others were Barton, Reid, Brunker, Abbott,
Lyne, Walker, O’Connor and Wise.
An old Maori woman who had led an
adventurous life was Mrs. Ellen Gilroy,
widow of the famous Irish whaler Paddy
Gilroy, who died at Bluff (M.RQ lately at
the age of 96. She was well acquainted with
early Sydney, having made numerous voy-
ages in her husband’s schooner three-quarters
of a century ago. There is a pen-picture of
Paddy Gilroy in Frank T. Bullen’s “Cruise
of the Cachalot.” Mrs. Gilroy, who saw
Bluff grow from its first whare, was by many
years the little port’s oldest inhabitant.
The age-limit has pushed Major-General
McCay on to the retired list with the con-
solation prize of a step up to Lieut.-General.
The man who was in command of A.I.F.
Depbts in Blighty, and before that com-
manded the sth Infantry Division, was 62
on December 21. He was a member of the
first Federal Parliament, and was Minister
for Defence in the Reid Government. After
the Armistice, MoCay’s tactful handling of
the A.I.F. men in camp in Britain averted
most of the disorders that occurred else-
where. In one camp there was trouble
caused by too tight a rein, and McCay told
the C.O. why. “But, sir,” objected the dis-
ciplinarian, “if you saw groups of men play-
ing two-up” “I wouldn’t see groups
of men playing two-up, ’“ interrupted McCay.
GUMS!
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“A manufacturer was telling me to-day that at
least 90 per cent, of the returned soldiers who
took up toy-making after the war are now out ot
the business ; the Germans and the Australian public
have done it. They were practically turned out.
in the streets, not because they were not capable,
but because the Australian people said: ‘No, we will
let you starve and give our business to Germany.
I was told that 90 per cent, of the wooden-toy and
60 per cent, of the tin-toy trade has gone to Ger-
many during the past few years.” —Marcus Burke, of
the Develop Australia League.
Hark to the grumbling guns, Digger! There’s fight-
ing overseas.
And won’t you hate the Huns, Digger, and save
us, if you please?
Your country is a-calling. Would you have her lost,
betrayed ?
Your brothers fast are falling, and you see us sore
dismayed.
For lo! our precious chattels may in dreadful peril
stand
If to those bloody battles you don't rush to lend
a hand;
The German might is marching with red murder in
its train,
And fear our throats is parching, though each bright
and busy brain
Can still draw your attention to our most inspiring
need,
Nor hesitate to mention what we ask of you is speed.
There’s work for a proper man, Digger, with Hell
itself aglow;
Be careful as you can, Digger, but go! For God’s
sake, go!
So Digger Bill to the war has gone
{Way for a Digger!)
His jaw shut hard and his grey eye shone,
For he seldom, fails when lie’s called upon —
And the grunting guns came on and on.
{Pray for a Digger!)
And now they’re “dumping” guns, Digger, from fac-
t’ries overseas!
Come, won’t you bring your sons, Digger, to buy ’em,
if you please?
Your country' is a-selling, would you see her lose
her cash?
What tale is that you’re telling—that these German
toys are trash?
You make them, eh ? And better ? And your strength
for us you spent—
We can’t afford to fetter our trade with sentiment.
We’re most confounded sorry that you’re maimed,
and starving, too,
But the best of us know worry, so buzz off, old
fellow, do!
And if you feel like laughing, here’s a jest to make
you glad—
G. P. SKERRETT, K.C., Chief Justice
of M.L.
You bore the big guns’ strafing, but.... the toy
ones got you, lad!
There’s place for a crippled man, Digger, if not
on earth... .below !
Be happy if you can, Digger, but go! For God’s
sake, go!
So Digger Bill to the wall has gone.
(I VaH for a Digger!)
His cheek grew lean and his grey eyes shone
With the hunger-light in his face so wan—
But the German guns came on and on l
(Pray for a Digger !)
VICTORIA.
MACESS.


ifimnnniifh.
ilk ill
m
iiSIffiStSaSHSHSHH
■
Rg:
A
A
■
38:5
LL m
m
rijitH
[snmnmK
SHH:
3nHS&
0
nr
Biff
r*
a«j«n
11
1
rSTTisr
3m
SHT:
■
HSs?
inn
jail
■
■M
;3
ii
ijjlpn!;!
m
R|::::::uf::::ssss:sssss
iiiiililliii
HhIHUIHIU
liiii
iilillill
pmfp
’
UsttxHHHH&SSktxH
OVAL
H EAVY WEIGHTS
c fyft jfcnS o/ 23 &30.
TINS OF 25 I^s
TINS OF 50 —2/9
PURE VIRGINIAN.


Cbe equitable Cife
flssce.
OO
C t,
£oy.
Australasia Dd.
Head Office:
Parbury House, Eagle Street, Brisbane.
Branches:
N.S.W.: VICTORIA:
84 Pitt St., Sydney. 360 Collins St., Melb.
Transacts Probate, Life Endoxvment, Com-
bined Benefits (All Sickness ) Assurance.
(Vacancies for Producers with good records .)
FREDIv. LEVY, Mg-. Director.
SHIRTS
COLLARS
PYJAMAS
“ Good Pfellah
Ch.ri£lmas Gifts’ *
m
Change Your Name
if vou like, but you cannot change your
REPUTATION.
mm
m
I
FOR THE PAST 40
YEARS Jack Wieneke has
had the reputation for
making the FINEST
SADDLE in AUS-
TRALIA.
That’s saying some-
thing !
Write to-dav for a
copy of his new
colored book showing
how he did it.
Experience always tells.
Yours truly,
Jack Wieneke,
371 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
OR
432 Queen Street, Brisbane.
ABORIGINALITIES
MADE IN AUSTRALIA
BARNES-LINSEED OIL
SMALL BEGINNINGS.
“Oi, Oil Vot ish my dear little Becky so busy writink
for?”
“Well, I burnt some cakes las’ night, an’ I’m writing to
the fire-insura-nee people about it.”
“Oran”: A mako-sliark patrolling Manu-
kau Harbor (M.L.) came to a curious finish
the other day. He discovered a floating bag
containing a dead dog, and essayed to dine
on it. But his double row of inbent saw-
teetli became entangled in the meshes of the
bag, and so effectually gagged was the mon-
ster that he died of starvation or rage, his
body being found stranded at the harbor-
mouth. What about Australian surfing
beaches trying this method of capture or
incapacitation? A few disgruntled bathers
might object to the dead dogs, but they are
preferable to live sharks.
* * * *
“Two Seas”: The mystery of “hashma-
gandy” having been satisfactorily explained,
some inquiring mind may want to know the
meaning of another word signifying food
that was often heard on the old windjam-
mers but never seen in a dictionary. Sea
apprentices called it “menavellings.” It
comprised the remnants left over from the
cabin table. When the “doctor” brought
them for’ard in the “dog-basket” he was
hailed with delight. But there was always
a job to be done in exchange for the cher-
ished “menavellings,” and a strong light is
thrown upon the victualling of British ships
in the ’eighties when one remembers that
apprentices, whose parents had paid from
30 to 60 guineas premium, would work for
a nigger cook in their watch below grubbing
out coal on their hands and knees in the
tropics to obtain a handful of broken
victuals they wouldn't hand out to a beggar
on shore. But after a constant menu of
salt pork-—all chunks of green fat —and
salt beef that had been condemned as naval
stores —the meat as hard as wood and the
bones honeycombed with years of lying in
brine —it is not surprising that lusty young-
sters would do a lot to get something they
could eat without having to pinch their
noses and bolt it. They never got even a
sniff of the food now served out in fo’c’stles.
As for ’amaneggs, it wouldn’t have been safe
to have it aboard. The apprentices would
cheerfully have murdered the “doctor” to
get a dish of it.
* * * *
“Sucre” : “Dinkum’s” story of the bonita
that landed on the deck of the horse-ferry
Karakara on her way down from Thursday
Island with a flying-fish in its mouth,
reminds me of a python shot by the late
Archie Meston at Milla Milla (N.Q.). In-
side it was a wallaby, and inside the wal-
laby was a bird’s nest with a young one
still in it. The nestling had a .cane-grub
in its larder, and the grub was full of
molasses.
* * * *
“Murihiku”: “Nosey” says that “no seed
in the world retains its vitality longer than
the wattle” (B. 4/11/’26). But what tests
with 100-ycar-old wattle-seed have been
carried out? Many of us know something
of the mummy wheat that is palmed off on
tourists in Egypt. Some of us who were
touring there with the N.Z.E.F. in 1914
got samples—over 4000 years old, so the
blanky Gyppo said. And we knew he was a
liar. The same old reprobate told us, almost in
the same breath, that the Virgin’s Tree at
Helmieh was exactly 1914 years old. The
mummy pea-seeds—“4ooo years old, Captain”
• —are gathered fresh every year for the
benefit of tourists, who simply must have
them. But about those 100-year-old wattles.
Will “Nosey” please supply us with the
names, weights and colors of the investi-
gators?
“Pick”: Either bees have
adopted a new code of rules
or “The Rumpus” (B.
2/12/’26) has slipped in
making his observations. He
says that when a new tene-
ment is sought only the
young queen and bees' leave
the old home. Invariably it
is the old queen that treks
on moving day. Aware of
this, the owner of a valued
queen always cages her or
clips her wings at swarming
season. Moreover, if only
young bees forsook the hive,
the remainder of the colony
would dwindle to decay. The
life of a working bee extends
over a few days only, and
young bees are continuously
needed to take the place of
those whose wings have
frayed out. Again, “The
Rumpus” says that when
the youngest queen matures
the old mother is stung to
death. How, then does he
account for the well-known
fact that bee men frequently
keep prize queens for the
full term of their lifetime —
six or seven years. Anyhow,
a queen sentenced to death
is never stung. The execu-
tioners ball around her and
she goes out by suffocation.
“Virginia Lee”: This happened at a
cricket match in a Bananaland sugar centre.
One of the local men sat on a stump, around
which the grass grew fairly high. After
watching the game for some time he was
disturbed, and looking down saw the tail
of a brown snake disappearing up the leg
of his trousers. Thinking to cut its journey
short, he grasped his leg tightly above the
knee, thus making an effective barrier, and
then called to a boy to get a stick to kill
the reptile with when it came down. The
other kiddies soon collected their mates.
Every time the snake poked his head out
yells of “There he is!” sent him back again.
After a few minutes—-which seemed more
like years to the victim —some of the older
folk came to the man’s assistance. Silence
was enjoined, and when the snake came
down again it was promptly bashed.
* * * *
“A.R.r.” : Suspecting someone was taking
my eggs very early in the morning, I rose
at 4.30 and presently saw tw T o rats at the
nest. One took an egg in his paws, held it
and rolled on his back; the other hooked
his tail in his mate’s and started to pull.
When they had reached within 4ft. of the
house, I threw a stone and they scattered.
The egg was intact.
“Kooragai”: “Two Seas” makes a wrong
deduction when he says that he has disen-
tangled too many ’roo corpses from between
the two top wires of a 4ft. sheep-fence to
believe the high-jumping records they are
THE BUSY BEE.
CONTABLE A06 : “Wotcher call Mieko over there the Busy Bee for? He doesn’t work,
does he?”
’ORACE : “No, hut every bloke ’e meets gets stung.”
credited with. It is an easy thing for a
kangaroo to hop over a rail fence, but when
the obstacle is a wire one it often proves
a death-trap. Disaster occurs through jump-
ing at the second wire, and thus striking the
top one, sight of which has escaped the
animal. As the body topples over, the second
wire is caught up by the foot and drawn
to a loop over the top one, and holds the leg
tightly. When the wires are slack the strug-
gling of the animal sometimes releases it;
but frequently the jerk over the tight wires
bi’eaks the leg.
* * * #
“■Sisley”: Seasonable advice. If bitten
by a snake, keep cool. Half of the deaths
from snakebite are due to fright. When
a person gets scared the heart beats swiftly,
sending the blood rushing through the veins,
carrying the venom with it. Keep cool, make
the incision and rub in the permanganate
crystals, and it will be found that in most
cases no serious ill effects will be experi-
enced.
* * * *
“ Jacky Roo”: I can’t say that a prad
can telepath a fear felt by his rider, as
suggested by “Astern” (B. 11/11/’26) ; but
I know two places where horses have been
maddened by fear
at night. One was
a bridge near
Cooma (N.S.W.)
beside which a
woman was sup-
posed to have been
struck by light-
ning, and tradition
has it that her
ghost haunts the
spot. There have
been several in-
stances when a
horse has refused
to cross the bridge
after dark, but
whether the uncon-
scious dread of the
riders (who knew
the yarn) was
transmitted to their
neddies one cannot
say. The other
place is near Bung-
endore (N.S.W.),
and a man was
thrown violently
there because his
horse became so
terrified. I can’t remember the history of
that spot, but it was a gruesome one.
* * * *
“Pick”: Some bushies have an alidost
uncanny capacity for getting the utmost out
of working bullocks. After a withering dry
spell that had wiped off every horny of
the Coolumbooka sawmill teams, operations
were recommenced with an unbroken mob
of mountain scrubbers. George Walker, our
chief bullocky, had shifted with Matilda
during the idle spell, so the millhands were
forced into undertaking the log-hauling. We
tried it singly, then with an offsider, and
finally all hands were engaged frantically
flourishing bullock-whips and saplings and
filling the jungles with blasphemy, but not
one jinker-load could we induce our leader-
less ox-frames to move from the stump.
Then a prayerful petition was sent after
George, and he came back. By evening of
the next day the fractious string was work-
ing steadily and powerfully.
“Sunset”: As a cure for Barcoo itch
“Simover” (B. 9/12/’26) should try the fol-
lowing : Mix four drachms of sublimate of
sulphur with two ounces of lard and half a
drachm of diluted sulphuric acid. Use as an
ointment.
“P.Q.” : Re the Barcoo itch. Let the suf-
ferer apply the juice of the red onion to the
affected part for six consecutive nights. This
treatment is also a cure for a form of eczema
which attacks miners in wet workings, and
usually about the legs. “Simover’s” case,
being of such long standing, may require pro-
longed applications 1 , but the medicine is
cheap.
* * * *
“Wingella”: Are some people naturally
immune to malaria and kindred fevers? I
know one family in the N.T. who never use
mosquito-nets, who take few or no precau-
tions against illness and who never suffer
SHE HAD MADE READY.
“Aspasia, may I print a kiss on thy lips?”
“Yes, dearest Aristol. When do we go to press?”
from fever. Is there a natural immunity, or
do folk grow immune, on account of frequent
inoculations? Also, if there is a natural
immunity, could not these people be picked
for settlement in malaria-infected districts,
so helping to solve some of the problems of
settlement? If the blood of these people were
examined, and proved to have some disease-
resistant power, would not that help to
advance our knowledge of the prevention of
malaria? Also, could not a vaccine be pre-
pared that would help to cure such diseases?
THE WHEAT.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Day-long the harvesters a-whir,
Through tawny forests thrust,
Sweep down the heads that rustled high;
The grain is spilled,
The bags are filled,
The sewers’ fingers fly;
To railway sidings hazed with dust
And shimmering with heat,
While the quick sweat springs out in streams,
The toiling men and straining teams
Are carting in the wheat.
Night-long unending strings of trucks,
High-piled, tarpaulin-topped,
Go clack-a-clack-a-elacking by,
Each engine-light
Across the night
A watchful, steadfast eye;
Till shunted, switched or, fuming, stopped
Outside some ghostly town,
A whistle splits the silence deep
And someone thinks, ’twixt sleep and sleep,
“The wheat is coming down.”
The wheat is stacked along the docks,
The winches rattle fast;
Good food for hungry lands and cold
Sling after sling
Of bags a-swing
Drops down into the hold;
But, ere the mooring lines are cast,
A toast come let us drown:
“Here’s to the men who ploughed the field,
Who sowed the crop and bagged the yield
And sent the harvest down!”
VICTORIA.
SYD. C.


TO BE TAKEN OVER AS A GOING CONCERN AFTER 75 YEARS’ SUCCESSFUL TRADING.
ABRIDGED PROSPECTUS
of
GEHRIG’S WINES LIMITED
(To be incorporated under the Companies ’ Act of N.S.IV., 1899-1918.)
CAPITAL:
£150,000, divided into 150,000 Shares of £1 each.
58,000 10 per cent. Cumulative Preference Shares offered for Public Subscription as follows— . £58,000
5/- per share on application, 5/- per share on allotment, and the balance in calls of 2/6 per share at intervals of not less
than one month.
17,000 Ordinary Shares, to be allotted to the Vendors or their Nominees in part consideration for the sale to the Company in terms £17,000
of Contract mentioned hereinafter—the balance of the consideration to the Vendors is the payment of £36,000 (thirty-
six thousand pounds)
75,000 Ordinary Shares, to be held in reserve for future issue if required. £75,000
150,000
£150,000
The Holders of Preference Shares Shall Have the
Right—
(a) To a fixed cumulative preferential dividend of ten per cent. (10
per cent.) per annum.
(b) After provision for the payment of a dividend at the rate of not
less than £lO per cent. (£lO per cent.) per annum in the capital
for the time being paid up on the ordinary shares, to participate
equally with the holders of ordinary shares, and, in proportion to
the capital paid up thereon, in any further dividends which may be
declared.
(c) The right to priority in return of capital upon a winding-up or
otherwise.
The Provisional Directors reserve the right to allot a lesser number of
shares than may be applied for.
Provisional Directors:
CHARLES FREDERICK GEHRIG, Wine and Spirit Merchant, Sydney.
HENRY JACOB GEHRIG, Wine and Spirit Merchant, Sydney.
WILLIAM MATHIAS WESTPHAL, Licensed Victualler, Clovelly.
JOSEPH PATRICK KELLY, Licensed Victualler, Waverley.
LESLIE THOMAS DAVIS, Merchant, Sussex Street, Sydney.
(Two others to be appointed.)
Solicitors:
ALFRED ROFE AND SONS,
O’Connell Street, Sydney.
Auditors:
HOLT AND THOMPSON, Sydney.
Bankers:
Provisional Secretary:
P. D. WALKER, A.S.A.A. (Eng.),
A.1.C., 170 Phillip Street, Sydney.
ENGLISH, SCOTTISH AND AUS-
TRALIAN BANK. LIMITED,
Western Branch, Sydney.
Objects.
The objects of the Company, inter alia, are:—
To acquire as a going concern the very old-established business of the Vendors, known as
Gehrig and Co., Wine and Spirit Merchants, together with certain assets, detailed in the
printed prospectus, and to carry on this business on modern lines.
To acquire additional wine saloons, to finance hotels and wine-shops, and to establish
agencies in every State. The wine saloons thus acquired will be brought up to the modern
high-standard type so well patronised in Europe, thus meeting the demand of a very large
proportion of the public at present not catered for in Australasia.
To erect a modern winery in the Murrumbidgee Irrigation Area.
Gehrig and Company.
The business of the Vendors is a well-known one, having been first established in Albury
in 1850, and in Sydney in 1876, from which date it has continued in unbroken prosperity.
Gehrig’s Wines are recognised throughout Australia and by the trade as “second to none,
and they have been awarded the Champion Gold Medal for Sweet Sherries for the past eight
years in succession, this being an unequalled record in Australia.
Management of the Company.
The \endors, Charles Frederick Gehrig and Henry Jacob Gehrig, who have had a lifetime’s
experience in the Wine Trade, and who have for so many years been continuously associated
with the business to be acquired by the Company, will take an active and foremost part in the
management of the Company, in addition to which it will have the able direction of Mr.
William Westphal, who has been engaged in the Wine Trade in New South Wales for the
last twenty-five years, and who is well known as a Judge of Wines in the Royal Shows of
Sydney, Melbourne, Brisbane and Adelaide, having acted in that capacity during the last six
vc&rs.
As part of the proposed operations of the Company will be to create a demand for
“GEHRIG’S” Wines in the various hotels in the Commonwealth, the guidance of Mr. Joseph
Kelly the proprietor of the Oxford Hotel, Charing Cross, Waverley, N.S.W., and late
Director of ICellv and Fuller, Hotel Brokers, for fourteen years in Sydney, will be invaluable.
Mr. L. T. Davis, a well-known Merchant of Sussex-street, Sydney, will also be on the
Board of Management, and his financial experience as a merchant and a director of various
companies will be an assurance of economical and efficient management.
Estimates.
It is estimated that the first year’s sales of the Company’s products will be in the
ity of £54,000, from which, as is well known in the trade, a gross profit ot £J7,UUU
vicinity VVV} y _ .... . , _
should be earned. The expenses of management and other overhead incl
■stimated at £11,500, leaving an approximate net profit of £10,500,
including
or a
Income Taxes, are estimated ,
little over 20 per cent, on the proposed issued Capital.
The Company is taking over a going concern with an established turn-over and a good
reputation so that any estimate of the sales is thus made easier; but it might be pointed
out that the Company should do a much larger business than the Vendors, who never
employed a traveller or spent money in promoting sales. By the proposed extension of the
business the modernising the same, the employment of efficient travellers, the perfecting
of distribution and the installation of modern selling methods, the profits should be consider-
ably greater.
Assets to be Acquired.
In the printed prospectus appears a list of Assets to be acquired by the Company from
the Vendors The list, which has been estimated on a conservative basis, totals £53,000.
In connection with valuations of licenses, leases, etc., these have been made on an
independent basis by such companies and people as Murrell and Co., Ltd., James P. Hoban,
C. P. Ellsmore and Arthur L. Garvey, all of whom are well known In the trade.
The Wine Industry in Australia.
During the year 1919-20 Australia produced 7,649,404 gallons of wine. In the year 1923-
24 that figure had grown to 14,663,881 gallons, an increase of 7,014,477 gallons in four years.
In 1919-20 Australia imported from other countries 91,954 gallons of wine. In 1923-24
the import figures had dropped to 76,758 gallons, a decrease of 15,196 gallons iu four years.
Again, in 1919-20 Australia exported 801,161 gallons of wine. In 1925-26 the export
total was 1,722,622 gallons, an increase of 921,461 gallons in six years.
Great Britain imports 17,000,000 gallons annually. Last year Great Britain imported
the record total of 1,054,460 gallons of wine from Australia, leaving a balance of nearly
16,000,000 gallons imported from other countries —a huge market for Australia is still secure.
The consumption of wine by Australians, medicinally and otherwise, is rapidly increasing.
The home consumption in 1919-20 was 6,848,243 gallons. In 1923-24 it had grown to
13,672,577 gallons, an increase of 6,824,334 gallons in four years.
The 1923-24 figures are quoted by reason of being the latest published by the Common-
wealth Statistician —the figures for later years will be far better than those shown.
From this it can he seen that the market for
wine—Australian wine—is a very large one,
and one that is capable of consuming all the
wine that Australia con produce for many
years to come.
The Main Points for Investors.
1. The business is a going concern with an established trade
2. The business to be acquired has been in existence for over 75 years.
3. Net profits, free of Income Tax, are estimated to be £15,500, or approximately 20 per
cent, on the proposed issued Capital.
4. Gehrig’s Wines are recognised throughout Australia as being of the highest quality,
the Champion Gold Medal for Sherry having been awarded for the past eight years
in succession—an Australian record.
5. The demand for Australian wines is growing both in Australia and abroad.
6. The Provisional Directors intend to enter the Export Trade.
7 The Export Bounty is now fostering our Wine Trade, as shown by the Record Trade
Statistics, thus placing wine exporters in a stronger position than hitherto.
8 The Directorate is a very strong one, being composed of men expert in their calling
and including Messrs. C. F. and H. ,T. Gehrig, of the Vendor Firm, who have had a
lifetime’s experience in the Wine Trade.
9 Shares issued to Vendors in part consideration of sale are ordinary shares, thus
contributing shareholders must secure their dividends before the Vendors. This shows
the undoubted faith of the Vendors in the undertaking.
Contract or contracts herein referred to are in possession of Alfred Rofe and f>on,
Solicitors, O’Connell-street, Sydney.
The proposed Memorandum and Articles of Association may be
inspected at the offices of Alfred Rofe and Sons, Solicitors, Rofe
Chambers, O’Connell Street, Sydney, a,nd it is the intention of the
Provisional Directors to frame these in accordance with the requirements
of the Sydney Stock Exchange with a view to the listing of the Company
at an early date after the Company is in working order.
Brokerage at the rate of 5% will be payable by the Company on
any Shares applied for through recognised or approved brokers.
For further particulars, cut out and send this coupon. No obligation is incurred.
THE PROVISIONAL DIRECTORS,
GEHRIG’S WINES, LIMITED,
O/o P. D. Walker, Esq.,
170 Phillip Street, Sydney, N.S.W.
Please send me copy of Printed Prospectus of the above Company.
Name
Address
Occupation • ••
City and State
B. 6/l/’27


For the purpose of winding-up a partnership, Tenders are invited and will be
received at the Office of the undersigned until February 1, 1927, for the purchase ot
THE VALUABLE DEVELOPMENT PROPERTY KNOWN AS
THE LEADVILLE MINES,
including THE MOUNT STEWART MINE. THE GROSVENOR MINE,
THE EXTENDED MINE.
The property consists of 110 acres, comprised in two Amalgamated Mineral Leases under the
Mining Act of 1906 (not subject to Royalties).
Development work consists of Two thousand five hundred (2500) feet of Shafts, Nine thousand
three hundred (9300) feet Rises, Winzes, Drives and Crosscuts. In all twenty (20) prospecting
shafts have been sunk, each disclosing ore bodies., Nine Mineral Lodes opened up the chiet
metals being: Galena-Silver, Lead Carbonates-Silver, Copper, Zinc Sulphides, High-grade Sul-
’DIFFICULTIES—RAILWAY STATION ADJOINS THE PROPERTY—
distance from Sydney Two hundred and forty (240) Miles. The assets for sale include the plant
and machinery in and about the Mine, an inventory whereof may be inspected at the office of
the Qn speeial form of Tender and subject totheconditions set
out therein and must be accompanied by a deposit of Two and one-half pel centum (21) of the
amount tendered. Such forms and full particulars will be supplied to any bona-fide applicant
by the undersigned. ~ ,
Leases are available for inspection by arrangement.
The highest or any tender not necessarily accepted.
R. D. BOGAN, F.I.C.A. (Bogan and Collard),
Public Accountants, 88 Pitt Street, Sydney.
EDGEWORTH
EXTRA HIGH GRADE %
SMOKING
TOBACCO
Australian Agents: R. TOWNS & CO., SYDNEY*
“Spadger” : We milked a cow once who car-
ried about with her a perfectly adjusted
separator. She gave a lot of milk, and her
calves were the fattest and biggest in our
herd, but for household purposes her milk
was useless. It could be run through a
separator of the ordinary man-power variety
without a drop of cream appearing either
in the dish or in the interior of the machine.
By no method of milking could she be
enticed to give any cream. Has any Abo.
met another like her?
* * * *
“Waranbini”: While riding through the
bush near Dyraaba (N.S.W.) during a
thunderstorm I came upon a naked man sit-
ting on a log, holding a horse that had no
saddle on it. At first I thought there was
a screw loose somewhere, and pulled up a
few yards aw r ay. “Where are your clothes
and saddle?” I asked him. With a grin
he pointed to the hollow end of the log.
“Keepin’ dry,” he said. When the rain was
over he hauled them out, dressed himself,
saddled his horse, and presently rode away
as dry as a bone. I was drenched to the
skin.
* * * *
“Sucre” : “Saaedi’s” yarn that very many
bush fires are caused by lightning is quite
correct. Huge areas of western Queensland
have been devastated thus. One of the
most mysterious fires I’ve seen was caused
THE LADDER OF JUSTICE.
CORONER STUBBINS : “What steps did. you take to recover the body
of the deceased?”
P.-C. BUGGINS : “I borrowed a pair from the plumber’s.”
on a sugar-plantation at Isis by friction,
Two gum-tree saplings were growing so close
to each other that any heavy wind set them
“rubbing shoulders.” Sparks from the
ignited dry bark of the saps, lodged amongst
the dry trash of the cane that grew right
up to the trees. An observant cane-hacker
discovered the cause.
“Herodot”: The Australian goanna fre-
quently attains a length and size which easily
puts it in the same class as Cobham’s rep-
tiles. In country where food is poor and
scanty, the “go” is seldom more than a
couple of feet long, but in regions where the
PROOF POSITIVE.
SAL: “But ’ow do I know yer love me, Bill?”
BILL: Ow do yer know? Gorstruth! Ask me ter dry off the whole flamin' herd and
I’ll do it!”
pickings are ample it often grows to seven
or eight feet with a proportionate girth. It
seems to thrive best on rabbits. With
abnormal dimensions it also seems to develop
pugnacity. In the Pilliga district (N.S.W.)
an old man was burning off dead timber when
his dogs started a seven-footer. It first
clawed and bit one of the dogs to such an
extent that the animal later died, and then,
charging straight at the old man,- ran up
his back, being dislodged only by a joint
attack of the remaining dogs. The old man
spent four months in hospital.
* * * *
“Jim Carew” : Recent pars, on cattle and
their departed brethren remind me of one of
the crude jokes the Bush plays on newly-
married couples. I
remember when the
storekeeper manned
a young lady to
whom most of us
younger men had
been hanging up
our hats, and who
was young enough
to be his daughter.
The night the couple
returned from their
honeymoon some of
the boys secured a
bucket of blood and
emptied it secretly
over the store-
keeper’s garden
fence. Ten min-
utes later two cows
were bellowing lus-
tily at the gate, and
within half an hour
about 20 com-
panions gathered
near the house bel-
lowing almost con-
tinuously. The
bridegroom drove
the cattle away sev-
eral times, but they
returned and kept
him awake until
morning, when the
blood in tbe garden was found and dug in.
* * * *
“J.D.C.”: Cancer in live stock, says
“A.J.8.” (B. 9/J2/’26), is of rare occurrence,
and during the examination of thousands of
cattle he had met with only one case. This
does not apply to sheep, as cancer of the car
in old ewes is fairly common. It has been
attributed to mutilation of the ears with
blunt pliers, and to crushing and bruising in
the drafting gate. Wethers are subjected to
the same treatment, and as they usually
reach the butcher at about the “eight-tooth”
stage, while good ewes are frequently kept
for breeding purposes twice that period, old
age seems to be indicated as the main cause.
The ewe is generally nearing the "gummy”
stage when the trouble shows up, though it
may begin much earlier. The first indication
is a hard, warty growth on the ear, which if
not lopped off at this stage spreads gradually
to the head and invariably ends in death. I
have seen sheep still living with part of the
skull and jawbone showing bare, and the sur-
rounding tissue a mass of dark, nodular mat-
ter. Now that ear-cropping is prohibited,
sheep with cancerous ears are usually killed
on sight.
* * * *
“G.8.L.”: “Eunonyhareena” or “Eunonu-
liareenyha” means “Eunong lives here,”
according to “Merridong” (B. 25/11/'26).
I cannot find any confirmation of this.
Bayliss says the word means “fighting blacks
lying in ambush,” and Dr. Arthur Andrews
in his book on the early settlement of the Upper
Murray gives the same meaning. Eunony-
hareena and Oura (cockatoo) were stations
taken up near Wagga about 1832 by the
Thompson family. The abo. word Wahga,
or Wagra, corrupted by the white men into
Wagga, is said by Dr. Andrews to have been
adopted by the natives from the cry of the
crow, for which bird the word stands.
* * * *
“Backblocker” : “Pick’s” plover that shifted
its nest, scenting danger from coming storm-
waters, did nothing unusual. One day when
driving by a lagoon that had been dry for two
years, I was amazed to see flocks of water-
fowl scattered about it. That night the
weather broke, though I had seen no signs of
a break, and the lagoon was filled.
* * * *
“Coppertop”: Has any member of the
Council heard of “raining” trees? Out-
side Caboolture, north of Brisbane, a party
discovered several. There was not a cloud
in the sky, yet when they stood under a
briglitly-foliaged tree, situated about 60ft.
from a lagoon, a steady and continuous drip
fell on them. The shower came from
the foliage 30ft. above their heads. All
round the stem of the tree grew grass and
bracken which was wet and had a brighter
color than the grass away from the tree.
After visiting it several times, they decided
that at midday—the hottest period—the
“rain” was much heavier than during the
latter part of the afternoon. At sundown,
one of the party lit a fire under the tree, and
when the heat began to rise the “rain”
increased.
“Blood-brother” : An old Kanaka —despite
the law against it—secured a Bayard .22
rifle and set out one wet day to improve the
somewhat meagre bill of fare supplied by his
cocky employer. His total bag consisted of
a couple of poor old “jackies.” Jimmie
arrived home quite jubilant, and set about
preparing a blowout. He cleaned and washed
the game, and, putting them over the fire
in a camp-oven, filled his pipe and took up
a position near by, scorning the usual
bill of fare supplied at tea-time. Through-
out the night he kept prodding the game
with a fork, but failed to make any impres-
sion on it. He was still there at daylight,
and on being asked how things were moving
he replied with a look of disdain on his
smoky dial, “My word, them two fella him
number one. Him born first time; Maria
long time behind.” Maria, Queen of Chil-
ders, was reputed by pioneers to be some-
where in the vicinity of 90.
* * * *
“Leach Line”: Green furred ’possums
are occasionally found in the Atherton Table-
land and Herberton Range (N.Q.). Only
about a quarter of an inch of the hair tip is
green, but in close fur it is sufficient to give
a verdant look to the whole pelt. The color
is a genuine dark green, like the shade of
the upper side of a kauri-pine leaf.
* * * *
“Getoora”: What does the last syllable
“bri” in abo. place-names mean? Boggabri,
Narrabri, Collarenabri and Cuttabri are
some examples. At ohe place I was told that
it meant “small boy.” and at another “water.”
* * * *
“Merrigal”: More place-names for people
hunting for home-monikersßellawonga-
rah, mountain camp (Berry, N.S.W.) ;
Bobbin, good camp; Coorumbene, pretty
place; Dunmoogin, beautiful place (Welling-
ton, N.S.W. —the g is hard) ; Eleebaana,
beauty ; Earamilleen, sunrise; Earawoolleen,
sunset; Goonjeegang, white-man’s camp;
Tillabudgery, good view; Tulendeenali.
house on a hill (Illawarra blacks) ;
Warrawonga, side of a hill; Wayalongali
(Wayalongalee), good lookout. This last
is situated on Wave Hill station, North-
ern Territory, a property once owned by
W. F. Buchanan, of Killarney, Narrabri.
* * * *
“Black Tracker”: While after snipe in
swampy country, my mate came across a fat
black snake. Grabbing it by the tail he
gave it a flick, expecting to see its head fly
off. The head remained, but out of its
throat came two frogs. One appeared to be
uninjured, as it hopped away, but the other
looked sick and helpless.
* * * *
“Up Top”: “The Dook’s” sheep with the
gold ring embedded in its tongue (B.
21/10/’26)has a parallel amongst Queensland
cattle. A steer killed at the Biboora meat-
works owned a tongue which resembled a
football tightly belted in the middle. As a
calf, when feeding, it had poked its tongue
firmly through a loose hobble ring. In Syd
Rammage’s (Townsville) museum is, or was,
a beast’s leg bone which had grown completely
round a twist of fencing-wire. Apparently
when the animal was a youngster the leg
had been entangled in a wire fence, and in
the breakaway a portion of the wire had
remained twisted around the leg. The bone
PUTTING ’EM IN THEIR CLASS.
FIRST SWAGGIE : “Met anyone coinin’ along
the track, mate?”
SECOND SWAGGIE: “Yairs —a Hoke with a
swag, two blankers in a sulky, and four
crimson illegitimates in a motey-car.”
had grown inches high around the wire. A
week ago we shot a wild boar of gigantic
stature and violent temper. Embedded in his
hide were three abo. spear-prongs, besides a
spear blade of chipped quartz and a hideous
barb of chipped glass.
THE BUSH TREES.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
I love the old bush-trees, the clean trees, the green
trees,
That grow from the Cape to the rim of the Bight,
From seaboard to seaboard by the grim Never Never,
Where dust-storms make midday as dark as the
night;
The bloodwoods and beefwoOds and whitewoods and
blackwoods
That flourish and thrive from the east to the west;
And skirting the rivers, like fringe on a mantle,
Are red gums, the big gums that I love the best.
The leaves of the myalls are long trailing tresses
That sweep the tall grass as a swallow may sweep
By dry plains and wet plains and green plains, and
ridges
Where she-oaks sigh softly as children asleep.
There are young trees and old trees and short trees
and long trees;
There is low stunted scrub, where pine-trees are
tall,
And straight as an arrow are stringy-bark giants';
But old river gum-trees are best of them all.
There are boree and mulga and gidya and wilga,
Great cool aba hs strangled with supplejack vine;
The leaf of the quandong is brittle and scanty,
But their berries are redder and sweeter than wine.
Oh, grand is the old bush, the deep bush, the still
bush;
I sigh for each acre it’s foemen invade,
Where axemen and chainmen and armies of grainmen
Are spoiling its beauty the Great Artist made.
Oh, grand is the land of the great empty spaces
Where mulga and mallee and brigalow spread,
And scrub wattle blooms in magnificent splendor,
And derelict remnants of lost races tread.
The grey gums are straight and as high as a steeple;
The fleet-footed emu finds room for a nest;
Deep bends of the rivers are cool, shaded havens,
Where men who are weary many yet find a rest.
N.S.W.
JIM GRAHAME.


II
m
■
■ i
Ml
1
8
«
. # I
1
; !
msm
m
MB
I 8
:
fli
t . 'll
mm
: : I
m
i
■ ■■-S''
H
m
fm ■ 1
I: ■
«
■
i
mm
■ ’ >
1
i
H
I
■HU
■
s
s f:
::
: :
fli
HI Hi
■fli
'■ m
■HM
MHI
. .
H ■MR
£*
■hj^*
j I " MMNMNHIi
HHHHH
’
jNMHti ■ MilSHHi|
MQB
v'v,:. |" ■. ■H■ ■: |.
sifi
WL
*3>
s 3
4B
:
H
»
.
■ ■' .V' 1 •
DUNLOP
are specially
constructed to
withstand hard
driving on Aus-
tralian roads.
They are good
for thousands of
care-free miles
under whatever
conditions you
travel.
GARAGES CAN SUPPLY
* ★ -*
DUNLOP RUBBER CO. of Aust. Ltd.
All States and N.Z.
MJNI&P T!fBEB
*or Quality & Service


Under
Royal
Warrant
Vintage 1917.
ToH.ML
Kin<»
GeorgeV
CHAMPAGNE
Charles Heidsieck;
sums
Australasian Agents—
Swift & Company Limited
champaghc
OuriesHridsitfK
HEIMS
PELLISSON
Cognac Brandy.
lO YEARS OLD.
Australasian Agrents—
SWIFT & COMPANY LIMITED, Sydney.
s*'<9 + %,8 *
The Hotel
Be
Wentworth Hotel
The name stands for Perfection
SUMMER ENTERTAINING
Tariff, inclusive, from 26/'- per day, or Bed and Breakfast
from 15/- per day. Rooms with or without bath, or en
suite with private sitting-room. Air-cooled in summer,
steam-heated in winter.
The gorgeous and newly-decorated Ballroom in the
Cafe is available to guests for dancing: BW 1361.
The Cafe
ESS"
rra
Order all drinks before 6 p.m.
m
7hp cen/ne o/' Queens fenafe
' c/is/ingu/shec/ Soc/o/ Life,
m
Wote I
Magnificent Ball-
room. Palm Court
and Lounges at the disposal of
guests and their friends at all
times.
Suites de Luxe —double and single
Bedrooms, with Bathrooms
attached. Hot and cold running
water and Electric Fans in every
Bedroom, and every modern con-
venience for the comfort of guests.
Telegrams and Cables: Lennon’s, Brisbane,
Telephone, Central 5780—10 Lines,
A WOMAN'S
LETTER
SAY-
Kayser
SILK OR
CHAMOISETIE
GLOVES
Pittwater had its sails unfurled for its
New Year regatta, and Randwick, clad in
Nature greens, worked about lavishly with
red and purple salvia, got into the second lap
of its Tattersall’s meeting. The same old
army of smiling diehards turned out to watch
the numbers go up, and peddle notes and half-
notes in exchange for the magic pasteboard
that, luck willing, would result in a wad of
unearned increment. No vice-regals were at
this meeting, and the dressing was of the
summer variety, georgettes and printed silks
and cr§pe de Chines turning the stands into
a de luxe crazv quilt—though it did look as
though the quilt had been intended for baby’s
cot, being inadequate to cover full-grown
legs. Legs were clocked, and a few of them
had rosy garlands embroidered on them. The
MacCormick lady was chaperoned by her
two daughters—an attractive trio. Just this
minute returned from Europe, Mrs. A. J.
Cobcroft wore smart currant-red, fringed in
many colors, and topped by a rose-garlanded
black hat. Nan Garvan, in soft white, re-
mained modest in spite of the new title in the
family, and Allen Taylor brought his bride
wearing her wedding toque and otherwise
lilac clad. Black and mauve enswathed Mrs.
Harry Dransfield. Mrs. Pat Osborne was
sleek in navy and our old friend the jumper
suit turned up at its jauntiest on Mrs.
Hector Clayton.
The first day of 1927 produced the usual
crop of lOU’s to the New Year and the
Highland Gathering. Probably most of the
first will be dishonored, but more than honor-
able mention must be given to the Scots’ rally.
A fairer gathering of the clans has never
been known since Wallace bled and Robert
Bruce called up the tartans to stand by while
he tried still another throw of the dice. Sprigs
of heather were pinned by cairngorm to tartan
—just such another bit of heather as some
fond Jean or Maggie pressed on the wearer
for luck when he left Scotland to seek his
fortunes. Every now and then, amid the
glittering panoply of pipers and medals and
fluttering plaidies, groups of sonsy wee
McGregors and McTavishes flashed the bare
knee of Scotia in the sword-dance and other
sports to which Caledonia wild and free is
addicted even to the 77tli generation. And
yet there are some who say the sins of the
fathers are not visited on the children. The
Governor-General, himself a Scot, smiled be-
nignly on the gathering before lunch, and
when the time for the toasts came round his
speech would have stirred the very stones
of Culloden. (Culloden’s laird, by the way,
is chief clerk in the London branch of the
National Bank of Australasia, and his
mother lives in North Sydney.)
In the evening the G.-G. was among the
huge audience at the Town Hall that turned
a rapt ear to the Highland Society’s concert.
One of the great moments of the night came
with the presentation by Surgeon MacCor-
mick’s lady to the winners of the Pipe Band
Competition. There was a special medal for
the pipe-major from Mackenzie Forbes of
Maoriland, and a cheque for £5O for the
band. This was passed out with suitable
eulogy by the president of the Society.
Duncan Carson.
A record crop of pantomimes greeted the
New Year in Sydney. Aladdin at the Opera
House finds the magic lamp that leads to
fortune and love and happy-ever-afterness:
at St. James Jack runs up the beanstalk to
find pots of gold, and at the Hippodrome
the Babes get Lost in the Wood. There’s a
fan ballet that keeps things moving during
the ups and downs of Aladdin that is worth
au encore. The fans are huge things, and
are earned outspread like skirts before the
dancers. They are as multi-colored and gold-
splashed as a flight of New Guinea butter-
flies, and as they twirl and wheel just as
lightly and as swiftly in the dance, the on-
looker has the feeling that it is the fans
that are the directing force and the girls
mere bits of thistledown blown as they
will. There’s a wedding veil in this worn
by the Princess that must be nearly a mile
long. It can only be compared to the long-
trail of feathery foam that is whipped up
in the wake of a racing motor-launch. When
the wicked magician is finally foiled, and
the wedding-bells ring, the little Princess
in a white satin Chinese coat, sparkling like
hoar frost, descends the magnificent staircase
that stretches from high up at the back of the
stage. And as she steps down the lace veil
billows and cascades after her, till finally,
when she joins hands and notes with Aladdin
in the last duet, her train stretches back of
her up the staircase as far as the eye can
reach. It might almost be a strip of the
Milky Way on which she and Aladdin and
all happy children could climb up and up
till they reach the everlasting stars.
Mayor Stokes and his niece, ex-Mayoress
Cecilia Walsh, are not to go out of office
unhonored and unsung. An overflowing
meeting at the Wentworth last week resolved
to farewell Cecilia on a full tide of music
early this year. The meeting was made up
of men and women who are busied with
charities, and the general verdict was that
no Mayoress of Sydney has worked more
generously than Miss Walsh. Her amiable
methods are proved by the fact that she
goes out of otfice infinitely more popular than
she was when she became Mayoress. Attor-
ney-General McTiernan presided at the
initial get-together, and a cabaret at the
Wentworth was decided on as Sydney’s
public farewell to the lady. The ex-Mayor
will be dined. He proposes to go to Europe
and the TJ.S.A. later in the year.
Retiring Mayoress Cecilia Walsh gave a
pai’ty the other day to say her official fare-
wells to the presswomen of Sydney. Alfred
O’Shea had been beguiled into singing while
the tea-drinking preliminaries were under
way. And while through the high, dull and
sombre-curtained rooms the impassioned and
liquid notes poured, this Letter swears that
it saw a company of ghosts—dead and gone
Mayoresses, whose eyes smiled with the light
of romance rekindled. Presently every
guest departed with a crepe de Chine hanky
to wipe away the tears of farewell.
Those who go and come on the ferries had
something to take their minds off the talked-
off rise in boat fares one day last week.
11.M.A.5. Sydney had hung her masts with
garlands, and the romantic-minded who won-
dered what young man of the sea had gone off
the deep end into matrimony soon learned
that he was Lieut. S. T. Milton Gower,
and that his best girl was Christina Beryl
Muller. She is a daughter of the medical
O. R. Mullers, who until recently were
among the old brigade of Hunter’s Hill. Her
two sisters and a small Deloliery, almost
hidden in a poke bonnet, tended the thistle-
down finery to the altar of St. John’s. Dr.
Downward, R.A.N., and Lieut. Rands, of
H.M.A.S. Sydney, were the bridegroom’s
seconds, and cake for all was ordered at
Petty’s, where bride’s mother and father did
the honors, the lady bringing rich burgundy
georgettes to the toast-drinking.
The quaint name (for a Jewess) of Abbott
was owned by one of the parties at a recent
big wedding at the Great Synagogue. The
’groom was Julian Alexander, a doctor, who
has screwed up his plate at Walcha; the
bride’s family originally had an impossible
Russian or Polish name, which they simpli-
fied. Such changes are common. By the
way, the bridegroom may be able to claim that
his surname is one which makes those who
boast ear ly-Norman ancestry look cheap. When
Alexander, in the course of his world con-
quest, invaded Palestine, the elders of Israel,
not particularly charmed by their Persian
overlords, met him with words of praise
sweet to his ears, and won many concessions
from him. The High Priest then proclaimed
that all male children born in Jewry during
the next year must be named Alexander.
Ben (son of) Alexander became a common
surname thereafter ; it is probably the oldest
surname in the world to-day.
Jean Barlow is a musician from the North
who will make herself heard in Sydney
within the next
12 months.
To begin with
she will be a
pupil of Wini-
fred Burston
at the Conser-
v a torium,
where she
comes by
virtue of a
scholarship
granted by the
Brisbane local
committee of
Trinity Col-
lege. Mabel
Zillman has
been Jean’s
teacher in
Brisbane, and
under that
pilot the
youngster won
her associate
and licentiate diplomas of Trinity College, and
the licentiate diploma of the Royal Academy.
Among other scraps of paper she treasures
also a diploma of Trinity College for elocu-
tion —she is one of Brisbane’s cleverest
amateur actresses.
Dick O’Carroll, of Brisbane, who has been
a dominie at Toowoomba pretty well ever
since he was demobbed, was married the
other day. His bride was Dorothy Sigley, of
Crow’s Nest, but she went north for the
nuptials. Dick’s brother Will, of the Even-
ing News, was his best man, but an old
brother-in-arms, Tom Logan, came into the
picture as groomsman, and two other cobbers,
Toby Jardine and Lcs Sinclair, were among
those who hopped over with congratulations.
The quartet have been inseparables since
Brisbane schooldays. Nineteen-fourteen saw
them in the same company at the Landing,
the Armistice found them all with brighter
war-records than health, and four times since
then they have helped with a chaff barrage
while Hymen made one or other of them
life prisoner. And "’•eater love than this
hath no man for another.
Lucie Andree Hayward kept her appoint-
ment as scheduled with John Henry Snaden,
at St. Clement’s, in Mosman. Despite the
saint she had invoked for her nuptials, the
night proved the most inclement of a squally
week. However, the white moires and silver
lace, and the really beautiful lace veil which
her own hands had made, arrived at the
altar without as much as a rain-spot to
dim them. With father to give her away,
brother to best man, and Dorothy Webb, m
blue georgette, sprinkled with rosebuds and
silver lace, as ’maid, the pretty little bride
almost forgot she wasn’t in Perth, her home
town. The Wentworth rather spread itself
in the matter of the wedding feast, and low
bowls of pink roses crescendoed to one of
the most glistering cakes ever cut by bride.
The stabbing of the outer rampart brought
the only shadow of discomfiture to the
bride’s cheek. She even made a speech,
very neat and complete, just before she
whirled into her first dance as Mrs. Snaden.
Probably no young woman in Australia
has a clearer brain or more shining aca-
demic distinc-
tions than
Gladys Marks
—t he lady
along side.
Since 1916
she has been
Lecturer iu
French at
Sydney Uni.,
and is the only
woman lec-
turer in the
Arts Faculty.
And if that
isn’t proof
enough of her
mettle, con-
sider her work
in the National
Council of
Women and
the Women
Grad uates’
A s s o c i a-
tion. For many years she has done great
work for both, and in 1924 when inter-
national secretary for the National Council
she was its Australian representative at the
conference at Copenhagen. The same year,
as vice-president of the Women’s Graduates’
Association, she represented it at the Inter-
national Federation of Uni. Women at Chris-
tiania. The last-named society has a special
committee for intellectual co-operation, and
Miss Marks, by invitation, is its Australian
corresponding member. And the joke of it
is that if you met her at a party you’d think
she did nothing in the world but plan devas-
tating effects in georgettes and sequins.
Dayne made this picture.
Knight Allen Taylor glowered when he
saw the Press photographers waiting to
record the passing of himself and his bride
from St. Matthias’s Church to the high-
powered motor at the kerb of Oxford-street.
The ex-Mayor of the City, who has widespread-
ing timber interests, had planned to whisper
his vows so quietly that only his bride, Mrs.
Linda Turner Hawkes, the minister, and
one or two intimates would hear. But there
you are—the newspapers got hold of it, and,
failing details by post and ’phone, went to
the ceremony ! They saw that the ring was too
small, and that the padre had to hug the
bridesmaid’s bowpot while she struggled with
the principal lady’s gloves and pink gladioli.
The Knight’s new lady was in a souffle of
white georgette and silver lace, finished off
by a Russian turban of oxidised silver and
lilac.
Oliver Wallace, B.Ec., 8.A., of Sydney
Uni., a brilliant young scholar of the Educa-
tion Department, was married at the year’s
end to “Billie” (Blanche) Dingle, of Mar-
rickville. Her father was the late S. S.
Dingle of the Argyle Bond. The bride, a
pretty, slim girl, looked like a rose blooming-
in a mist of jacaranda as she whispered her
vows from ruffling blue georgettes. Billie,
until this Christmas, was the popular short-
hand mistress at the Hurstville Domestic
Science School, and one of the happiest
parties given to her before her marriage was
hostessed by the school’s headmistress and
staff. A hand-cut rose-bowl from the same
old friends ornaments the new Wallace home
at Bathurst.
Gladys Mary Curling, of Cremorne, chose
St. Philip’s for her marriage with Captain
Arthur Hughes, youngest son of the Mel-
bourne Major-General.
If someone had stood at the entrance to
the Wentworth Cafe and shouted “Mac” on
New Year’s Eve, there would have been a
stampede nearly a thousand strong; for
quite three-quarters of the revellers had the
bloom of the Hielands on their cheeks or
the burr of the Lowlands on their tongues.
The banquet was consumed to the most
plaintive of Scottish airs, but the skirl of
the pipes arrived with the coffee. The
pipers, in Black Watch costumes, soon had
a fantastically-capped platoon accompanying
them, and diners who were not of Scottish
blood began to think that, though pipes
might have made heavenly music at the
Relief of Lucknow, they were rather ear-
splitting in a dance-room. Some wonderful
frocks were lost in the crush, which was
responsible for many bruised shins and in-
steps from the hefty-footed ones who would
insist upon trying to Charleston. _ One lady
in black rather startled the vision; her
dress had a back V inset of flesh-pink chiffon
that ended at the termination of her back-
bone.
The sort of reciprocity between Gentile
and Jew which “Abie’s Irish Rose” has been
preaching was exhibited when Dr. Loewen-
thal played the part of Father Christmas for
the kiddies at the Prince Alfred Hospital.
The young medico is a last-year graduate
who was one of the most brilliant students
of his year; his father is a stalwart in Jewry
who recently reorganised the finances of the
Maccabean Hall. But, as most Jewish
children enjoy the benefits of Christmas,
there was nothing that the most orthodox
Jew could object to in the proceeding.
Muriel Pickup is a girl who’s doing some-
thing different. She’s been official scorer
for the cricket team of Lewis Berger and
Sons for eight years. During that time she
has missed only one match, and that was
through illness, and she travels inter-State
with the team, too.
Death last month took an old lady who in
her day fought him for hundreds of his vic-
tims. Miss Catherine Downs, who was 87
when her life closed at Miranda, learned how
to fix bandages and take a temperature at
Melbourne Hospital, and when the Prince
Alfred Hospital was opened in 1882 she was
one of the five sisters who formed the first
staff: it was not long before she became
matron, succeeding Miss Murray, who had
been brought from Scotland for the job, but
married. There was a romance about that;
the lady’s cousin, Captain Murray, found
life dull without her, and, following, induced
her to marry him. They settled in N. S.
Wales, and succeeded in getting the Govern-
ment to establish the Brush Farm as a train-
ing sehool for boys.
Miss Brisbane’s Christmas week:—
Two Robinson Crusoe pantomimes are running in
Brisbane. At the Empire the ’mime is elaborately
staged, an illuminated ship, reminiscent of Thor’s
boat of the sun, surging up through aquamarine tints.
Its deck supports the ample proportions of Dorothy
Manning, who looks at her best as a pantomime
boy. Mary Lawrence is Polly Perkins. Queenie
Paul is the principal boy at Cremorne, and the
kiddies of the ballet are little Brisbaneites.
Southport seems the social centre this week. Purple
and gold dressed up the Grande Hotel for the
House dance, and balloons bobbed to the strains of
the Sans Souci orchestra. The P. J. Symes, F.
Macnish and T. J. Ryan matrons were the organ-
isers. Judge Jimmy Blair and his spouse took
a picnic party out on their motor-launch Merry
Widow. Lunch was on the land, and afternoon
tea at sea. Alex. Jardine, the Youngs and Francis
Kenna were amongst the cargo. The Don Chauvels
had a jazz in the Pier Pavilion Theatre and ai
supper party at the Pacific.
George Brooke, of the Brooke-Cahill duet, is up
here with his bride.
The Queensland Country Women’s home for bush
kiddies, Linga Longa, at Sandgate, which at present
holds eight mothers and 28 children, had a party
and a gorgeous Christmas tree. High tea and reci-
tations lent their festive aid. The Toowong branch
gave a Christmas cake, and Mrs. J. P. Peterson saw
about the puddings.
Burleigh had a ball for the funds of the Catholic
Church there, amid foliage and colored streamers.
The Sans Souci band played, and the balloon dance
was won by the G. Wilsons.
Showers fell during the Boxing Day races at
Ascot, which the gay zinnias on the lawn appreciated
if the gay-frocked women didn’t. Mrs. J. E. Stewart
wore duck-egg blue and biscuit, with a cream hat.
Nancy Stewart was in apple-green striped silk. Mrs.
E. K. Tully wore an Oriental-patterned black gown,
Mrs. Harry Mort dappled green, Mrs. Alan Jeffray
lemon, Mrs. C. A. Bernays ivory and mauve, and
Beth Hardy blue.
St. Stephen’s, Coorparoo, saw the Christmas Eve
wedding of Basil Krook and Lynn Smith. The bride
was in ivory crepe de Chine and Honiton, with a
broidered tulle veil and orange blossoms, and she
carried cream roses. Amy Hockings, in lavender with
a bouquet of pink hydrangeas, ’maided.
An interesting Downs wedding was that of John
Moore, Grasmere, Mitchell, son of the J. C. Moores,
to Maidie Nicol, daughter of Dr. and Mrs. Nicol,
Willowburn. The bride wore bois-de-rose crf>pe
de Chine, and a droop hat of the same hue. Her
attendant was the Kilmarten maiden, in silver grey,
black hat and pink roses.


JiARJDT BROTHERS LXD
Inexpensive Wedding Presents
BAB6l3—The Three-piece Set illustrated above
consists of Jam Spoon, Butter Knife and Bread
Fork—all of Hardy’s superior quality Silver-
plate ; in case.
1(1/-
BAB6o9—Six Bean-end Coffee Spoons, of Hardy’s
Silverplate, in velvet-lined case, are an unusual
and happy choice for a Wedding Gift.
16/-
BAB6lo—Six “Albert” pattern Afternoon Tea
Spoons, in velvet-lined case, will be welcomed
as an indispensable addition to the household
Silver.
from Hardy's
' HARDY BROS.
BAB6O8 —Six Cake Fork? of
Hardy’s Silverplate, in velvet-lined
case, will make a welcome addi-
tion to anv Tea Table.
22/-
m
Five per cent . discount allowed for Cash,
298-300
COLLINS ST.,
MELBOURNE.
HARDY
BROTHERS LTD.
*£7/ie7/ouse aPSxduswcVewtU&y
13 HUNTER STREET, SYDNEY.
And at LONDON.
116-118
QUEEN ST.,
BRISBANE.
Start the New Year by Taking a Subscription to the
Castlereagh
Circulating Library
The Library de Luxe.
Country Clients pay freight both ways at specially reduced rates.
Books may be left at Central Railway or Ferry Bookstalls for
exchange.
New Books added immediately on arrival.
Books may be changed as often as desired.
Subscriptions may start at any time. Payable in advance.
Of Interest to All Readers.
SEVEN SHILLINGS AND SIXPENCE
will entitle you to read 1 44 Volumes, 72 Latest Books and 72 Latest
Magazines if you join the CASTLEREAGH LIBRARY, controlled
by the N.S.W. Bookstall Co., Ltd., and situated in Rowlandson
House, corner Castlereagh and Market Streets.
A subscription to this most up-to-date Library gives you the
cheapest reading possible. It gives you the best books—it gives
you the best service coupled with courteous attention. Every book
is perfectly clean and covered with distinctive blue-cloth jacket.
No torn books are ever offered to subscribers. Particular attention
is drawn to the advantages given to country clients.
Behind the Castlereagh Library you have the N.S.W. Bookstall
Co., Ltd., which is a guarantee of service.
Library Address—
ROWLANDSON HOUSE,
Comer CASTLEREAGH AND MARKET STREETS, SYDNEY.
RONISCH and LIPP
PLAYER PIANOS
■
and PIANOS
The Players are installed
with Hupfelds Claviola
Player Actions
mm
These exquisite Players are fitted with every desirable device, including detachable
units, transposing device of nine semi-tones and graduated tone control.
There are many reasons why you should buy either a
RONISCH OR LIPP PLAYER.
It enables you to play classics and other music artistically. You can accompany songs
perfectly.
For dancing it is unequalled for perfect time and rhythm. It will make musicians of
all your family.
SOLD ON
EASY TERMS.
338 GEORGE STREET,
SYDNEY.
m
FULLY
GUARANTEED.
206-210 PITT STREET,
Next Lyceum Theatre.


The Finest Restaurant and Dance
Rendezvous in Sydney.
PATRONAGE CONTINUALLY INCREASING.
Capacity: Dining 850, Suppr Dances 700,
Teas 900.
For Wedding Receptions, Banquets, Supper
Dances, inquiries to Manager.
Mon., Tues., Wed. and Fri., Dining De Luxe,
7.30, 10/6; Suppers 10.30, 5/6. No charge
for three hours’ dancing on satin-smooth spring
floors.
Thur. and Sat., Late Gala Nights, Continental
Dinner from 7.30, 21/-; Suppers 10.30, 12/6.
This evening in London costs £2/2/-
Two Peerless Orchestras. Bewitching Cabaret.
Not one Dull Moment.
Delightful Afternoon Teas 3.30 to 5.30, 5/-
Two hours’ Entertainment of Sheer Delight.
Book earlv. Order all Wines uefore 6 p.m.
Ring M 3666.
m
Stay at
“SCOTTS”
when you visit Melbourne
The appointments throughout this
modern residential hotel are com-
plete, the service and cuisine
faultless, and the central city lo-
cation of the hotel itself the acme
of convenience.
Inclusive Tariff by Day or
Bed and Breakfast Rate.
Suites on Application.
Tariff Cards Posted on Request
Telegrams: ‘‘SCOTTS’ Milaourne
m
Melbourne
S-14
8283
FILM POCKET
PICTURE SHOW
,‘7/ie
PATHLORAMA
1- Rested 7o Films la e«x.
Home Ebcreations p
388 George St,Sydney
[opp. Beard Watson's')
Melbourne
Chatter
Buckley's
Elizabethan
Tea 'Rooms
R[?] C[?] 800[?] [?]
Buckley [?] Nunn [?]
In the city streets the New Year slipped
in almost unnoticed —the days are gone when
folk used to serenade |he town clock, and
fireworks are not in favor in the metropoli-
tan area. ’At the cabarets and dance-halls
there were late nights, and some folk gave
parties. The Burroughs, of Brighton, enter-
tained a horde of guests, and went in for
pyrotechnics that made the whole neighbor-
hood say “Oh!” and “Ah !”• The hostess is
one of the “Old Gold” Macßobertsons.
Members of the Ranelagh Golf Club at.
Prankston celebrated the incoming year with
a fancy-dress dinner and hop at the club-
house, and the Edmund Collinses, of Brigh-
ton, got a lot of friends to rally round and
help then! greet 1927.
Felt hats of the “Vagabond” type rushed
into popular favour on New Year’s Day at
Flemington. Also many of the picturesque
parasols bought to grace the Cup and put
out of commission through the weather were
unfurled under a sun that was not tierce,
and a breeze that merely caressed. Roses,
mainly deep pink and red, scattered petals
and perfume upon a lawn that was further
enlivened with summer frocks chiefly in shades
of fawn and pink. Everybody who was any-
body among the Christmas-tide home-keepers
seemed drawn to the course, and there were
many meetings over the teacups between
races. Secretary A. V. Kewney’s good-look-
ing wife was one of those who poured the
brew.
Mrs. 11. A. Embling, whose attire was a
symphony in sand shades, had with her Mrs.
Alec Grey, of Geelong, who wore a mole
georgette gown and a grey tagel liat with
mauve embellishments. The Greys will
leave for the Big Smoke in March. The
T. A. Tabarts were there with daughter
Pixie, who lias just recovered from a seri-
ous illness. Mrs. Murray Morton, a study
in reseda-green taffeta and crinoline straw,
was accompanied by her chick Ula, whose
beige-lace frock with floral touches was about
the daintiest on parade. Mrs. T. Walker
Sinclair used an all-black outfit as a foil for
a red sunshade. The Mackey lady had a
dull-green felt hat above a sappliire-blue
taffeta gown, with a cloak of black georg-
ette. Some smart jumper suits were seen,
Mrs. de Berigny’s ruby-toned satin with
tracery of dull gold being well in the lead.
One of the Rotliwell maidens looked Parisian
with a dash of black upon a white-embroidered
net frock and millinery, the ensemble being
completed with a white satin sunshade edged
with swansdown. Eileen Starr, the singer,
arrested the eye with a cherry-red hat worn
with a black satin frock. The John Millses,
of Maffra. the James Purves couple and
daughter Valerie, the Barry Thomsons and
the T. M. Burkes, who carried off their
share of the prize-money, were among the
sports.
Though society was mostly out of town
for Christmas there were sufficient of the
really naice people at the Boxing Day meet-
ing of the V.A.T.C. to prevent the gathering
from being a purely proletarian affair. The
committee’s box held a smattering of the
wealthier classes, and the G.-G.’s car was
drawn up upon tile sward, his Ex., accom
panied by Captain A. R. W. Curtis, picking
a bit at the committee’s luncheon. Caul-
field’s lawns looked their freshest, and a cool
breeze tempered the heat of the sun, so
under the trees and around the birdcage, save
when the dust blew up in clouds, all was
very pleasant. Financially, for both club
and punter, the going was good, and Mr.
McShortodds looked glum. The frocking was
mostly of the just-got-up-froin-luncli variety,
diversified by some gowns worn with har-
monising fur-bordered coats which gave a
particularly attractive effect. Verna John-
son, lately back from one of her many
world’s tours —she is reputed to be a mil-
lionairess —wore a coat minutely patterned
in black and white, with a finishing of grey
fur and black millinery. Commander Mars-
den’s wife, also just back from abroad, was
in an orange-hued gown with a floral border-
ing of black, topped by a black tagel hat.
Mrs. O’Dell Crowther, who was with her,
brightened black attire with touches of
cherry, white and gold kid. V.A.T.C. secre-
tary Tabart’s wife affected a blend of fawn
in suit and hat, daughter Pixie being clad
in mushroom-pink with a crinoline hat of
paler "tone. Mrs. Norman Clapperton was
in a sports suit of black and white tweed.
Mrs. Rogers Thomson, in soft shades of
plum color, had with her Mrs. Downing,
wife of the Westralian K.C., who, with her
daughter Edna, is holidaying in this city.
Mrs. James Purves, her sister Florrie
Green, and her daughter Valerie were a well-
turned-out trio. The pretty daughter of the
Purves couple, by the way. leaves on a trip
to the Big Smoke in February.
Ada Reeves’s gaily and expensively-
dressed revue, “Pins and Needles,” is one of
the draws of the holiday period. In the
Spanish scene the clothes are fascinating,
the ladies’ brightly-colored taffeta gowns
being splashed with brilliant stencilled de-
signs, and huge millinery is a feature. The
versatile Ada makes entrance in white, with
crimson velvet tracery. Toreadors in helio-
trope, or with black and gold embossed
cloaks over flame-liued suits, add warmth to
a scene staged in an orange grove. In dainty
contrast to these bold contrasts are the
beautifully-fashioned flower frocks, repre-
senting pansies, roses, lilies and so forth
worn by the living blooms that step from
the bowl of a fountain in a song scena.
The light blue and gold of the Air Force
brightened the interior of Scots’ Kirk, Collins-
strcet, when Mrs. Helen Margaret Glutli
took her second plunge into matrimony, this
time with Flight-Lieut. John Hamilton Sum-
mers, of Randwick. The pretty young bride
wore an ivory-embroidered coat, bordered
with fringe and collared with ermine over a
pastel-tinted lace gown girdled with pink.
A rose of the same tint bloomed in her hat of
midnight-blue straw trimmed with a velvet
band, and she carried a shower of pink and
white roses. Her sister-in-law, Mrs. Norman
Robinson, as matron of honor, was in
apricot georgette embroidered with palest
blue and made with Vandyke scallops, the
straw hat being painted with a floral design
in blue and pink.
When Verna, only daughter of the P. A.
Cleelands, of Caulfield, walked 40 yards on
red carpet to join hands with Frederick B.
Greenall, third son of the S. Greenalls,
of Lancashire, she wore a sleeveless gown
of white georgette, with a deep flounce em-
broidered in silver. An antique Limerick
lace veil, confined with a coronet of pearls,
flowed lavishly down and formed the train,
and a shower of white roses and carnations
was carried. Cousins Nita Cleeland and
Ethel Williamson tripped behind in dainty
frocks of petunia and Egyptian-blue georg-
ette, made with cape effect. Each wore
a wide crin. hat of the same coloring,
banded with velvet of a deeper shade and
finished with posies.
Pianist Rene Morrissy, who has found a
sparsely-trodden field as Katie Liddle’s part-
ner in two-piano performances, entered into
a syndicate of a still more interesting kind
when Father Walsh told her to be a good
and dutiful wife to E. M. Blielley, twig of
a Newcastle tree and a nephew of Mrs.
Trefle of Sydney. The bride, who was all
white satin and tulle, with a sheaf of lilies,
was attended by Mrs. J. Kennedy of Shep-
parton, matron of honor, who dressed the role
in a rose-pink gown with a tulle cap and a
posy of roses. Only a few old friends
attended the after-rejoicings. Music-lovers
in Sydney’s North Shore garden suburbs will
rejoice to hear that the nest has 'been
feathered at Roseville.
Aboard the Oronsay bound for Europe on
a holiday trip are two brilliant represen-
tatives of the
medical pro-
fession in this
State, I) r.
T. A. Wright
and his wife,
best known as
Dr. Ellen
Balaam. Both
are graduates
of Melbourne
Uni. The
lady, who is
pictured here
by Dickinson-
Monteatli, be-
gan her pro-
f e ssioual
career as a
resident medi-
cal at Mel-
bourne Hos-
pital. Break-
ing away
from the path
taken by most women graduates, she special-
ised in surgery, and for eight or nine years
has been an honorary surgeon of the Queen
Victoria Hospital. She has been deputed to
learn all she can while abroad regarding
the running of women’s hospitals, for the
benefit of the big institution here. Her col-
leagues at the Q.V.H., when bidding her
good-bye, presented her with a camera.
Mrs. Ham, of the Wattle, who can be
counted on whenever there is a good cause
that needs propping up, was two legs of the
table, bridge was. a third and a strong com-
mittee was the fourth when the District
Nursing Society lately netted £452. The
money will furnish and equip a ward in the
After-Care Home. Sidney Myer, of the
emporium, remembered, and sent a gift of
£lOO.
The Royal Victorian Institute for the
Blind, having erected a hostel for blind
women workers at a cost of about £BOOO,
has now the ambition to open the place
clear of debt. The Government has pro-
vided an acre of ground, and over £2OOO is
available from certain trusts and bequests.
Mrs. .Tim Angus has hopes of wiping out
the rest of the debt by a big jubilee fete
in the grounds of the Institute in April.
The committee of the Q.V. Hospital has the
foundations laid for a market fair in the
grounds to be held on March 3, 4 and 5.
Mayoress Morell, the Tallis dame, the Cal-
edonian Society, and numbers of other folk
have said they’ll be right happy to give
president Mrs. Norman Brookes and her
fellow-workers a helping hand.
This is Margery Bray, ballet-mistress for
Fullers’ Christmas pantomime, “Puss in
Boot s,” a t
the Princess
Theatre.
Though she
has had a lot
of experience
in training
young dancers
to move in
unison, not
many folk
have been
aware of the
fact. Tliebevy
of society
maidens whose
shapely legs
twinkled in a
couple of
fa s h i onable
charity mati-
nees recently
learnt their
steps from
Miss Bray,
who also put those who capered in the
“Green Mill” through their paces. Sydney
is her birthplace, but as a very small child
she became a Westralian, and received her
first dancing lessons from a former actress,
Edith Liugard. Her earliest stage appear-
ance was with the Pollard Juvenile Opera
Cos., and before joining the staff of Jennie
Brenan’s dancing-school she had taken the
stage in many of the Firm’s productions.
But this is the first time she has had entire
control of the dances in a pantomime.
The committee of the Women’s Hospital,
headed by Mrs. Arthur V. Hiskens, said
good-bye the other day to Sister Edith Par-
kinson, who has for 10 years been matron
of the maternity ward. The popular nurs<\
who received all her training at the W.H.,
and who took away with her a handsome
memento of her service there, intends to
practise her profession outside.
Artist Madge Freeman, who became Mrs.
Landfear Thompson, and now lives at
Qubasi, West Africa, likes her new home.
The scenery reminds her of distant Aus-
tralia, and there are some outings to be had.
At Ashanti, where she • was the guest of
Justice and Mrs. McDowell, there are ver-
andah dances and tennis parties. An artist
can find inspiration even in the wilds, and
Mrs. Thompson finds canvas-fodder among
the natives, especially the children, who
make excellent subjects.
De Pinedo, the Italian aviator who visited
us last year, has written a book about his
flight, and his greatest discovery appears to
have been the Australian girl. The species,
according to Pinedo, is self-possessed and
intelligent, excessively healthy, independent
and devoted to sport; its members are treated
by the men, who are primarily interested in
their sports and only secondarily in Girl, as
brothers and comrades would be. Consequently
the gossip and slander which flourish in other
countries about young women do not bur-
geon in Australia, and the adolescent female
may go to the theatre with a man one night
and the next night come home from a dance
with him at three in the morning and nothing
said. This seems to be the impression most
European visitors get of the local young
person, and explains why, when she performs
the same free evolutions in Paris or Rome,
she causes a sensation and finds herself
obliged to administer the icy shoulder to over-
optimistic males.
Tribulation is the portion of a really very
sweet and beautiful young American actor
in whose lineaments someone cursed with
more imagination than sense has discovered
a resemblance to the features of Edward P.
He was introduced to an intensely loyal
elderly lady at a dance, and dutifully asked
her to foxtrot. But the dame, who had
been told about the remarkable likeness,
resented such coincidences in the case of
Americans, and she felt it to be her duty
to be rude to the inoffensive youth. In fact,
her indignation got the better of her loyalty,
and she wound up her outburst with the
remark: “The only resemblance I can see
is that you both look dissipated.”
Some nice sports apparel flickered around
the South Yarra tennis-courts last week.
Vera de Bavay partially covered a white silk
frock with a smart coat of jade-blue, and
Mrs. Lindley Baker, wife of the president,
wore a fawn and blue jumper over a harmo-
nising plaid kasha skirt.
There is a change in the administration
of the Toe IT. League of Women Helpers.
Dora Barnard taking the place of the wife
of Padre H. E. E. Hayes as lion, general
organising secretary. The new whip, who
is a graduate of Melbourne Uni., has been
associated with Fairleight, the O.E.G.G.S.,
and Morris Hall. Later she took a hand
with the annual school examinations work
at the Uni. She has been a keen supporter
of Toe II., and has helped in many of its
good deeds.
Ballarat Hospital is about to lose its resi-
dent junior, Dr. Mary Skewes. Instead of
doing her second year she has astonished
the authorities by announcing that she in-
tends to visit England to see how they get
on with the job over there. Dr. Mary is
a niece of Dr. Norman Wilson, and her
father, T. G. Skewes, is a dispenser of drugs
in Ballarat, so that the family is more or
less steeped in medicine.
To earn one’s own living is no longer a
come-down even in the affluentest circles of
fiapperdom. Mrs. Frank Osborne’s only
daughter, a tall, fair girl, who accompanied
her mother to London, has become a manne-
quin in a famous Bond-street shop. This
young miss is a cousin of the Willaroo and
Currandooley owners who married Madden
sisters.
Mrs. M. L. Shepherd, wife of the Com-
monwealth’s official secretary at Australia
House, has put back to Aussie after six
years’ absence. With small daughter Peggy
she will spend until March looking up old
friends in Melbourne and Sydney.
When Phyllis Lett, who was a concert
star in Britain when she married an Aus-
tralian named De Burgh Ker, starts on her
singing tour of Australasia —it commences m
Maorilaud—she will take Maurice Besly,
one of the examiners at the recent Tt.A.N.
exams., as accompanist. It is probable that
Norman Bennett, the tenor, and a promising
Melbourne miss who plays the fiddle will join
the party.
R. p. Franklin, headmaster of Melbourne
Grammar, is due back on the 20th, after
about 10 months spent in Britain and the
Continent. He is returning by way of
Singapore, to say “Hello!” to his brother
George, who lives there.
Fifteen people who have spent their entire
lives on a er—manure-heap have been gaping
happily at Melbourne. They are chiefs of
Nauru, the ex-German phosphate island
which the Commonwealth now partly owns,
and they are in Australia as guests of the
Federal Government. It won’t cost the tax-
payer much. The chocolate visitors find the
street traffic vastly more entertaining than
any theatre show. A tree also provides end-
less delight. Although their island home is
one vast mound of fertiliser it does not
grow trees with much facility. The stufr has
to be treated with sulphuric acid before
plant life will thrive on it.
Sister Adelaide’s end-of-the-year jottings:
The Douglas Tolleys and their daughter have
returned from their Melbourne jaunt and launched
preparations for the wedding which will be at the
end of the month. The Grant-Lewis knot-tying
he a son of the late Thorald Grant, and she a
giand-daughter of the late John Lewis —is to be in
February.
The Evan Kyffin Thomas home-coming is delayed
again, and they are not sailing till March. He
reports himself as quite fit once more, and is busy
cramming into a month or two all the sight-seeing
that a six-months’ illness robbed him of.
A noble Christmas gift has come to the Tuber-
cular Soldiers’ Aid Society—£1000 from an anony-
mous donor for the hostel at Angorichina. The
cheque was waiting for the committee on its return
from an inspection of the proposed site, and relieves
those concerned of financial anxiety.
The Governor is developing into as enthusiastic a
flier as the G.-G. His latest jaunt was a morning
flight to Victor Harbor with Frank Downer and
Harold Law Smith, returning in time for inter-
state cricket in the afternoon.
Included in the Prince’s staff will be Surgeon-
Commander White, who was here in the Itenowh.
His wife, before her marriage Adelaide Napier and
a grand-daughter of the late George Riddoeh, will
arrive in the Otranto with a small son.
Racing at Cheltenham woke us out of our social
torpor, took a record crowd to the course—10,000
more than last year —and ran £80,000 through the
totalisator, reinforced, according to the “heads,” by
another £50,000 “through other avenues.” Their
Exes, were there with the new A.D.C., Flight-
Lieut, Armstrong, and his wife, and were lunched
respectively and tea-ed collectively by Dr. and
Mrs. Benson. Black still holds its own, but taffetas
and flowered georgette and broad-striped silks re-
lieved the sombre ground-work with vivid color.
Everyone who wasn’t at Cheltenham was at
Glenelg, with the exception of Marianne Fisher.
She, the last of the Buffalo passengers, with a
hundredth birthday due in February, has cut out the
Commemoration lunch for the last couple of years,
but still holds court at the old Morphett home, is
officially called upon by Glenelg’s Mayor, and
signs the pioneers’ roll-book. She comes of a long-
lived race, and tells of a brother who lived till
he was 97, went hunting almost to the end, and
was, when he said his last “Adsum,” the oldc-t
Etonian extant.


m
SPECIAL VALUE
DIAMOND-CIRCLE-RINGS
FROM &15-15-0
■Mi
DIAMONDS
DIAMONDS
DIAMONDS
m
m
*4
Drummond’s Diamond and Gem Rings completely
fulfil the.most exacting demands rightly attaching
to the purchase of the finest rings procurable.
Speaking from an experience of over half a
century, the firm invite you to expect of their rings
a Quality, a Superiority of Workmanship, and an
Individuality that can be found in no other rings.
Drummond’s rings are the supreme combination
of all of these characteristics, and a true reflection
of more than fifty years of specialised effort to
evolve the most beautiful rings that can be made.
WM-DMUMMOND &. CO.
HOUSE FOR FINE QUALITY DIAMONDS-*
AND PEARLS
3n«doqi3w *±s mrnoo9m-i7p£
TO EUROPE IN 1927!
MAKE YOUR TRAVEL ARRANGEMENTS WITH
THOS. COOK & SON
Railway, Steamship and Tourist Agents,
ESTABLISHED 1841 - - 165 BRANCHES.
PASSAGES Booked by All Lines at Tariff Rates.
Monthly Sailing List Issued Post Free.
TRAVELLERS’ Issued in Sterling and Dollars, in Notes
CHEQUES of £5, £lO, £2O and $lO, $2O, $5O, $lOO.
INCLUSIVE Tours arranged, including Hotel, Sightsee-
INDEPENDENT ing and Excursions. Any Route. Class of
TRAVEL Hotel and Travel optional. Itineraries
Prepared.
Pleasure Cruises to the Norwegian Fjords.
Motor-coach Tours in Great Britain.
ESCORTED TOURS IN EUROPE,
Visiting
ITALY - - SWITZERLAND - - FRANCE - - BATTLEFIELDS
BELGIUM - - HOLLAND - - and GREAT BRITAIN.
Fares include
Travel, Hotel, Meals while Travelling, Transfers between Stations
and Hotels, Sightseeing, Excursions, Gratuities, Fees, Guides and
Experienced Conductor.
Automobile Tour de Luxe from NAPLES .... 49 days, £396
Select First-class Tours from MARSEILLES .... 71 days, £302
Select First-class Tours from NAPLES 66 days, £283
Popular Escorted Tours from MARSEILLES ... 53 days, £179
Popular Escorted Tours from NAPLES 48 days, £166
Moderate Escorted Tours from LONDON 46 days, £149
DETAILED PROGRAMMES ON APPLICATION.
Monthly “TRAVELLER'S GAZETTE ” Post Free.
THOS. COOK & SON
MELBOURNE:
269 Collins Street.
SYDNEY:
Martin Place,
(Opp. G.P.O.)*
ADELAIDE:
49a Grenfell Street.
AUCKLAND:
N.Z. Insurance Building,
Queen Street.
WELLINGTON:
Government Life Building
(Next G.P.0.).
A. Saunders’ Dia-
mond Cluster Set
Platinum, 18ct.
Gold Ring,
£6/10/-
A. Saunders’
Single Diamond
Octagon-shaped
Platinum, IBet.
Gold Ring,
£7/10/-
A. SAUNDERS’
JEWELLERY,
SPECIAL
VALUE.
a
A. Saunders’ Diamond Dow and Bar Brooch.
15ct. Gold, £5/10/-
A. Saunders’ Single Diamond Bar Brooch,
15ct. Gold, £3/10/-
A. Saunders’ Dia-
mond Bing, Set
Platinum, 18et.
Gold, £5/10/-
A. Saunders’
Gent's 9ct. Gold
Bloodstone Signet
Bing, 35/-
m
A. Saunders’
9ct. Gold
Nellie Stewart
Secret Snap
and Joint
Bracelet, £3.
Smaller,
£2/10/-
£2, 30/-
A. Saunders’ 9et.
Gold Links, Engraved,
20/-
15ct. Gold, £2.
A. Saunders’ 9ct. Gold
Links, Engraved
design, 15/-
A. Saunders’ 9ct. Solid Gold Albert, £5/10/-
Heavier, £6, £6/10/-, £7/10/-, £B/10/-, £lO,
£l2/10/-; Lighter, £3, £3/10/- to £5.
A. Saunders’ Gent.’s Solid Silver Rectangular Wrist
•Watch, £3, £3/10/-, £4/10/-
9ct. Gold, £5, £5/10/-, £6/10/-,£B/10/-, £lO.
All Guaranteed.
Write lor Catalogue, Sent Post Free.
m
A. Saunders’
Lady’s 9ct.
Gold, Jewelled
Lever Watch,
Silk Wrist-
band, £lO.
15ct. Gold,
£l2/10/-
A. SAUNDERS
Watchmaker —Jeweller—Optician,
805-813 GEORGE STREET (opposite Railway Station), SYDNEY.
9
m
This Fine “Hard-Milled” Soap keeps
your Skin Smooth, Fragrant, Youthful
Look closely at an exquisite complexion—
the kind you’d wish for if you had a fairy
god-mother. Notice its clean, fine texture,
delicate as the petals of a flower. Pores
are practically invisible.
Cleanliness is the surest way to enviable skin. But
cleanliness is not mere application of soap and
water. Care in the soap you use is most important.
Choose Cashmere Bouquet as the soap for your
face and hands. It is “hard-milled,” which means
the cake is hard and firm—not the least bit squdgy.
/(Cashmere)
/
Ti Toilet S<Z3^
'A
oe, pi}
7?
\
Colgate
A Co
2
With Cashmere Bouquet
only enough soap pene-
trates the pores to cleanse
them. Thus no soap
stays in the pores. It
all dissolves, bringing
dust and dirt out with
it, leaving the pores
clean and unstifled,
which is the way nature
meant them to be.


NOT MADE DOWN TO A PRICE
It is NOT POSSIBLE to produce a
more VALUABLE Tennis Ball.
Every BARNET.GLASS TENNIS BALL Stitched
and Stitchless All Court is Manufactured in
accordance with the
Compression Standard
as well as every other standard
of the International Lawn
Tennis Federation.
n
U
m
A PRIVATE SECRETARY
IN PORTABLE FORM.
To the business man, the professional man, the
writer and the traveller the Underwood Portable is
a veritable Private Secretary. Efficient, unobtrusive,
dependable, it is ready at any instant to furnish
every modern writing convenience no matter where
you may be. Its light, responsive keys transform
writing from a drudgery to a pleasure, typing pages
of clear, legible work in a fraction of the time taken
under old-fashioned methods. Send for a free copy
of out descriptive booklet “A-5,” containing
complete details.
UNDERWOOD
Portable Typewriter
mmmm
Specifications.
Made in two Models —3-bank
and 4-bank keyboards. Two-
color ribbon, back-spacer, stencil
switch, shift keys and, locks,
variable line spacer and margin
stops and release.
Stott & Underwood Ltd
9-11 O’Connell Street, Sydney.
The Underwood Typewriter Agency,
91 William Street, Melbourne.
Crossley Motors Ltd
m
Tty APPOINTMENT TO
HM THE JUNG
Let a British Car c L(eflect Tour Pride of Ownership
The Full-sized, Roomy, Comfortable
Crossley Motors Ltd
By APPOINTMENT TO
t.R.H THE PRINCE OF WALES
mmmm
15/30-h.p.
Top-Gear Car
£399
Full-sized, Roomy, Comfortable, there is
no other car sold in Australia at almost
English Factory Price.
First cost or running cost considered,
Crossley more than holds its own —£399.
Fully equipped —3o miles to the gallon of
petrol; depreciation and repairs negligible.
We can now guarantee IMMEDIATE DELIVERY of the remarkable Crossley—the
Top-Gear Family Car.
Arrange now for a demonstration, or write for full information and illustrated literature.
CROSSLEY MOTORS (AUST.) LTD.
87 WILLIAM STREET, SYDNEY.
State Agents :
N.S.W. : CROSSLEY MOTORS (AUST.) LTD., 87 William Street, Sydney.
VICTORIA : A. F. GREGERSON MOTORS PTY. LTD., 128-130 Russell Street, Melbourne*
QUEENSLAND : BRITISH DOMINION MOTORS LTD., Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA : ADELAIDE MOTORS LTD., 175 Pulteney Street, Adelaide,
WEST AUSTRALIA : SPALDING MOTORS, King Street, Perth.


>33*'
«*•
««**
vv
oa
m*.
S leasing in flavour and texture to people
ith natural appreciation of fine quality.
SOLD EVERYWHERE
Manufactured by -
CLIFFORD LOVE & CO. LTD.
SYDNi»
Welcome the Coming—Speed the Parting Guest with
RESCH’S
LAGER, DINNER ALE,
PILSENER & STOUT
AUSTRALIA’S BEST BITTER,
RESCH’S BITTE.R ALE,
Ask for Them by Name —Keep in a Cool Spot.
Western Australian Distributors:
BURNS, PHILP & CO., LTD., PERTH AND GERALDTON.
[s
SPORTING
NOTIONS
Coalopolis chiefly stayed at home last
Saturday and saw to it that the bookmaking fra-
ternity at Broadmeadow started the New Year well
at the local race meeting, but in spirit it was at
Randwick, where the Newcastle mare Tibbie carried
a lot of the money hewn from coal. Chairman
Cameron and secretary Grisdale of the N.J.C. were
responsible for the mare’s presence in Tatt.’s Cup,
and, while duty kept them some 100 miles away,
Tibbie did the needful. All the same, she was rather
lucky to win. Daniels took a risk in riding the mare
through the field from the seven-furlongs pole. At
that stage Tibbie and Strongbow, the favorite, were
together, and there was only one horse, Real Mackay,
behind them. Toohey took the chestnut round on
the outside of the field; thereby he gave away a lot
of ground to Tibbie and, incidentally, the race, for
the winning post was too close for Strongbow to
overhaul Tibbie arid Bacchus. Withal he put up
a gallant fight with his 9st. lib. It was claimed that
Dartmoor interfered with Firefly, who ran dis-
appointingly, but it looked as if the latter was
done with at the half-mile, where the boring was
said to have taken place. Trainer Kelso was unlucky
to miss with Bacchus, after running second in the
Carrington with Persuasion. His apprentice’s pen-
chant for looking about him cost him the Carrington,
while a photo of the finish of Tatt.’s Cup shows the
vouth gaping at Tibbie as she flashes past Bacchus on
the post. The 101 b. penalty for her Villiers win
effectively disposed of Queen Alwyne. She looked
to have a chance right up to the top of the straight,
but just where she began to overhaul Honan in the
mile race her 7st. 101 b. told its tale. Newcastle
Cup winner Donald was closest to the place-getters
at the finish, but it was a very poor fourth.
Saturday at Randwick saw five winners numbered
10 in the racebook. It is just as well that the
whole programme was not won by the same numerals,
or the books might insist on number 10 being erased
from the Racing Calendar. In France or Italy the
judge would have seen to it that once on the right
track every race was won by the horse carrying the
same numbered saddlecloth. Mr. “Dud” Smith was
found wanting when he insisted in awarding the
Nursery to No. 1 (Ascalon).
Jack Cameron’s old champion, The Hawk, came
to light again on Saturday! when he won the New-
market Handicap at Auckland. The Martian gelding’s
previous win was when he beat Manfred in the Hill
Stakes at Rosehill the Spring before last. Manfred
won two Derbys since then and other races including
a Caulfield Cup, and blossomed from an awkward
colt into perhaps the most perfectly-shaped animal
that has ever been seen on the Australian turf.
Manfred, who is being reserved for w.f.a., may not
win another race—if Heroic comes out of hiding—
but “Cam” will use all his well-known skill in
“placing” his meal-ticket, and he is bound to get
another" win or two out of The Hawk.
These Rossendales can’t stay. Look at Rampion,
who went for a mile and a half in the last Mel-
bourne Cup and then turned it up. Now Maple
follows suit in the Perth Cup. Lee Steere thought
he had got hold of a good ’un when he won the
W.A.T.C. Derby with the daughter of Rossendale
and Hone.vwood, but, like all the get of the imported
sire, they will go for a mile and a half with a
light weight up and then start to climb. They are
not built like stayers. It says something for Maple,
however, that the two horses who beat her into
third place were in receipt of weight from the filly,
in addition to age, Au Fait (Ayrville—My Country),
carrying 6st. 11 Jib. and Char 7st. 31b. to the Derby
winner’s weight for age. Au Fait is a four-year-old
horsa and his weight would imply he has been wait-
ing for a chance to make a name for himself.
By far the most interesting winner at Warwick
Farm on Monday was Golden Curio, a descendant of
Golden Slipper, for whom the White Bros., of Mus-
wellbrook, paid a very stiff price. Golden Slipper
failed in their colors, and being retired to the stud
her descendants have not met with a deal of
success. Golden Voice gave a lot of promise as
a youngster, which he has only partly fulfilled. As
a two-year-old Golden Curio was backed “off the
map” one day at Randwick, but, as the name of the
race she won at the Farm implies, the daughter
of Rossendale and Golden Shoe has been some time
breaking the ice. Only one really first-class horse
was seen out at the Farm on Monday. This was
Lausanne, in the Berala Handicap. He is one of
Kelso’s team which is a very strong one at present.
The Randwick trainer appears likely to have this
son of Valais very well in a week or two, judging
by the way he came home in the seven-furlongs’
race. It is unusual to see such a class horse racing
in the off-season. Cave Dweller .(5 to 1) won the
Berala Handicap from Manafix (8 to 1) and the
favorite, Gaelic Maid (3 to 1), and made it appear
that it was no fluke for him to beat Grecian Orator,
who afterwards won the Carrington.
* • # ®
McShortodds found liimself in clover on
Saturday at the V.R.C. New Year’s Day meeting, as
five favorites were beaten. Despite Quintus’s good
form at Caulfield 'in the Malvern Handicap, Joe
Killorn’s filly Oreenie was always first choice for the
Standish Handicap, 11 to 2 at the finish, with another
speedy lady in Adjong, whom Cracknell had come
specially from Sydney to ride, at 6 to 1, Robes-
pierre 8 to 1, Quintus and Tullius 10 to 1. Greenie
was in front early, but Quintus, also on the outside,
was never far away, and, taking charge inside the
distance, won in brilliant style by half a length
Bom Yea Princess (12 to 1), with Robespierre a
head away third. Greenie petered out and finished
nearly last. It was a fine performance for the
winner to carry 9st. 111 b. to victory, and in lmin.
124 sec. Frank Dempsey, just back from England,
rode him with good judgment. Comus, who had
won the Hopetoun Handicap so easily at Caulfield
on Boxing Day, and who was only up lib., started
at 7 to 4 for the Bagot, with Tookarby at 9 toi 2,
and Longworthy at 5 to 1. The favorite went to the
front immediately, and, galloping in great style, was
first into the straight, but from then on weakened,
and at the distance Longworthy headed him. In a
thrilling finish the Bendigo Cup winner came home
a neck in front of Eridanus (10 to 1) —-the latter
finished really well, after getting into all sorts of
trouble —with Tookarby, also unlucky, a long head
away third. The winner, who covered the 14 miles
in the fast time of 2min. 33sec., is a six-year-old
gelding by Roseworthy—Longueville, and is owned
and trained by T. Conway. “Bob” Lewis rode him
in his best style. Marsias (12 to 1), a Magpie—
Tadorna colt, in Dick Bradfield’s stable, was first
home in the Criterion Handicap for two-year-olds,
a neck in front of the consistent Symbolist (12 to 1),
with Querida (3 to 1) a head away third. Punters
went for a recovery on Saradeen (5 to 2) in the
last race, the mile January Handicap, but another
outsider in Reputed King (14 to 1) won by half
a length from Lady Yarrien, with Archeress three
lengths away.
* • • •
“Clerk” : Nat Gould at his best (or worst)
couldn’t have thought of a better racing story than
the one that comes from Castlemaine (Vic.). The
old mining town was having its annual race meeting
the other day when an absent-minded jockey, leading
the field by a couple of lengths in the principal
event, pulled up on reaching the winning post the
first time round. Then when the rest of the field
flashed past him he realised that he had only
completed half the distance and, plying his whip, he
gave chase. The blood-curdling oaths of his sup-
porters changed to delirious cheers as he slowly
overhauled the leaders and finally passed the post a
second time with the most substantial winning
margin of the day.
* * * *
Maroubra Speedway continues to provide
thrills that are not on the programme. On Monday
night Hope Bartlett’s big-bonneted little Sunbeam
tore round for three laps with flames streaming
out like a cometary tail. The least concerned
person was Bartlett, who did not know anything
about it till after the race; he took the frantic
signals of officials to him as an intimation that
perhaps he had lost a wheel or some trifling mishap
like that. This caused him to slow up a little
and lose the race. The blaze was extinguished
without much trouble. No records were broken at
the meeting, though Harry Peel got near it with
a 99-m.p.h. lap on his new mount—an 8-h.p. Imperial
(British) motor-cycle. Byron won the all-powers
two-wheeler handicap on a 34-h.p. Zenith (British).
Peel won the consolation handicap on his monster
Imperial, and Cecil Brown on his baby Indian had to
be content with first place in the five-miles scratch
event. Among the four-wheelers, a feature was
the reappearance of Peter White’s old Fronty-Ford,
which had been tuned up to do about 120' miles an
hour, but could only stand the racket for a lap and a
half. Garlick’s Alvis (British) won the big event,
a five-miles go from scratch, and the consolation
event went to O’Rourke’s Bugatti. Garlick put up
the fastest four-wheeler lap, at 96 m.p.h.
* * * *
Victoria’s huge score of 1107 took all the
ginger out of the N.S.W. side in Melbourne, which
started the last knock of the match faced with the
impossible task of topping a total of 886. The
tired team succumbed for 230, Hartkopf’s slow leg
breaks dismissing half a dozen batsmen for 98,
while the cast-iron A.I.F. bowler, Liddieut, captured
the other four wickets for 66. Phillips again came
along with a useful opening score of 36, but the
only other cheering items of the innings were a bright
59 n.o. by young Jackson, and a free 44 from ’keeper
Ratcliffe. Kippax got no further than 26, and
Tommy Andrews failed to get going at all. N.S.W.
packed its bag in the dressing-room under the
cloud of the biggest licking in its cricket history—
an innings and 656 runs.
Victoria’s bloated innings has been pro-
viding record addicts with a rare feast. It is the
highest ever notched in first-class cricket, super-
seding the N.S.W. total of 918 against South Australia
at Sydney in 1901. There were five century makers
in that game, Iredale (118), Noble (153), Syd
Gregory (168), R. A. Duff (119), and Poidevin
(140). Last week’s achievement includes only four,
but Ponsford got 352 and Ryder 295—more records —
while Woodfull (133) and Hendry (100) were
obscure by comparison. Whether the carefully-
covered wicket, or the inferior quality of the N.S.W.
bowling was responsible is a matter of argument,
but something ought to be done to force Victoria to
fall into line with the other Sheffield Shield States
and leave the wicket uncovered after the game begins,
or these run-getting orgies will inevitably repeat
themselves.
* * * •
Queensland struck her third defeat in the
Sheffield Shield series when South Australia came
home by 10 wickets. The Northerners made a good
recovery in their second attempt, with 379 (Thompson
77, Rowe 74, and Gough 73). This left South
Australia 54 runs to get to win, and A. J. Richardson
(28) and Schneider (22) put them on without
loss. Grimmett at last found his arm for South
Australia, taking 5 for 107. The Northerners, with
but one game won of four played, will be up against
another tough proposition when they meet Victoria
in Brisbane on Feb. 5.
South Aus. is sending its best team, barring
Rymill, who was unavailable, afield for the return
matches with Vic. and N. S. Wales. Schneider, the
lightweight from over the border, has firmly estab-
lished himself as an opening batsman ; Lee is a young
all-rounder. ATI things considered, the visitors did
well to get rid of their opponents at Melbourne for
304 on Saturday, in view of the holy show that the
home side had made of the N.S.W. bowlers a few
days sooner. Woodfull failed this time, being dis-
missed for 6, but Ponsford followed up his recent
successes with a superb 108, while Hendry and
Ryder came along with 68 and 34. Hartkopf, with
a patient 29 n. 0., was the only other to trouble
the bowlers. Grimmett claimed 4 wickets for 101,
Wanted by N.S.W. Eleven — Good, experienced horsemen for
boundary-riding.—Apply A. Kippax.
Lee 3 for 32 and Haleombe 2 for 60. But if Vic.’s
total was no more than moderate, the response was
utterly feeble, Morton (5 for 70) and Blackie (4 for
59) rattling out the Crow eaters for a mere 149. Both
the Richardsons failed for once —it is seldom indeed
one of these sound batsmen doesn’t get going—and
their example must have been disheartening, for
seven wickets were down for 60. After this Pritchard
(56) and Grimmett (19) mended things a little,
but except for their flashes of brightness and the
grim tenacity of Schneider, whose 17 took an hour
and three-quarters, it was a disappointing display.
Vic. had more than doubled their first innings lead
with the loss of three of their “Big Four” when
play ceased on Monday. Woodfull got 34 ; Ponsford,
who batted more restrainedly than usual in his
effort to achieve a brace of centuries, was l.b.w.
at 84. On Tuesday afternoon the total stood at 296
for four wickets, Hendry 85, Love 62 n.o. South
Aus. are going to have a big task set them.
* * m *
“Flagwagger”: A few days after a recent
Sheffield Shield match I found myself sharing a
railway compartment with two cricket enthusiasts.
One of them suggested that Dr. Hartkopf was an
excellent batsman. “Garn; call him a bat!” re-
sponded the other, in disgust. “Why, he only made
61 agin Noo South.”
*. * * *
“Boy” Charlton’s return to form is
gratifying in view of the coming State swimming
championships and the arrival of the Jap top-
notchers. On Saturday Charlton won the 220yds.
Northern Suburbs championship at Manly (Sydney)
in 2min. 26 4-ssec. ; and for Manly v. Melbourne
in the teams race put 110yds. behind in 66sec. It
is his best effort over the shorter distance, and he.
should soon be winning fresh laurels. Charlton,
by the way, is the only Australian credited with a
world’s record in the recent list issued by the
International Federation—lsoo metres in 20min.
6 3-ssec. at Paris on July 15, 1924. Of the other
free-style records, J. Weissmuller holds the 100yds.
(52sec.) and from 100 metres to 300yds.; and
Arne Borg (Sweden) has the figures from 300 metres
to a mile.
* * # #
The two latest opponents of the Austra-
lian feather and lightweight champion boxer, Billy
Grime, have been left-handers, and the slim, pale-
faced lad has disposed of them both with the
greatest ease and a right-hand wallop. Havilah
l ren lasted into the seventh round in Melbourne a
fortnight ago, at lightweight limit, while Eddie
Butcher, welterweight champion (lOst. 541 b.) went
down and out in the fourth at Sydney Stadium on
Saturday night. Grime was 9st. Jib., a mere Boz.
over the feather limit. It was a fine feat for the
pug., who can now claim a triple crown. All through
his victorious career Billy has fooled his opponents
by wagging his left hand aiound as if preparing to
hook, and so distracting the °fh er f attention
b ' om b i® devastating right lead. This last comes
bke a flash of lightning when it will be most
effective. Fooled, foiled and flustered by Grimes
amazing shiftiness and speed, Butcher was barely
a bit of exercise for the champion, till ajery neavy
rjght to the mark put him out of action m the
fourth round.
* * * *
The Belgian bruiser Ernest Tynske (list. 31b.)
has a certain toughness in his make-up, but opposed
to Alf Stewart (list. 511 b.) at Melbourne Stadium
on Saturday night he was receiver-general in every
round of the 16 fought. It was only Stewart’s
slowness in following up that allowed the contest to
go that distance. It was Alt’s first appearance
after a long spell, and a little generalship would
have made him a much easier winner. In the third
spasm, after he sent Ernest for three flops of
lengthy duration, he failed to connect with a finisher
°P the slow-moving target, and again in the seventh,
:lft er sending the blond visitor staggering helpless
against the ropes he grinned almost apologetically,
f'd held his hand. The Belgian never at any time
looked like landing an effective punch his few
lon K n S b ts being easily evaded. His case had become
s .°, hopeless by the 16th round that Val Quirk
intervened and stopped the one-sided slaughter,
* * * *
Sydney is to see night coursing, if present
plans mature, a syndicate having been formed to
run the game by electric light at Epping Trotting
course. The dogs -will be the genuine article, but
the hare will be a dummy driven by electricity, an
innovation to gladden the hearts of the S.P.C.A.
The new game has been well tried and received in
the north of England. Electric-light sport in the
past has left an unpleasant savor behind, and night
pc-ny racing and pedestrian booms have died abso-
hitely unregretted, while cycling, though revived
again of late, also fell into evil repute. The new
coursing scheme may meet with better luck, and
if: any case will give the community yet another
chance for presenting McShortodds and G’Rook with
easy money.
“Aigbarth”: Pons-
ford’s big score in Mel-
bourne has recalled atten-
tion to the offer made him
while in England, by the
Blackpool (Lancashire)
League club. There is
little doubt it has been
accepted. If he goes,
Ponsford will . probably
qualify for Lancashire, as
did his predecessor in
League cricket, McDonald.
Lancashire has emulated
Middlesex in the matter
of adopting Australians,
though the metropolitan
county has by far the
longer list. Ponsford will
be a big loss to Victoria,
but Australia, may be able
to spare him better than
it could McDonald. We
have fine batsmen in
plenty, but bowlers of real
merit are becoming harder
and harder to find.
* *
“Slide”: The con-
gested condition of the Par-
ramatta Riyer on regatta
days has determined the
University authorities to
change the venue of
the next race in N.S.W.
for the Oxford-Oambridge
Cup to the Nepean River. This will give a straight
course of three miles, finishing at Penrith bridge,
with no tidal currents and practically free from
wind interference. The races can be seen throughout,
and can be followed along the banks, while the
dangerous over-crowding of the Parramatta course
will have vanished. Six crews can row at. once, and
it is hoped that the G.P.S. and other big, rowing
events will, in time, transfer from the Parramatta
to the Nepean.
* * * *
With their French tour closed, the Union
Maoris returned to Britain to complete their Welsh
engagements. In the midweek match the side beat
the strong Cardiff club by 5 to 3, but had the
tables turned on it by Pontypool on Saturday, the
Taffies winning 6—5. In the League game, the
reconstructed Maori landers also had varying luck,
winning from Wakefield, 29—24, but losing to another
Yorkshire Club in Hull Kingston Rovers by 20 —15.
* * * *
“Colenso”: “The Australian Encyclo-
paedia” mentions other interesting early sporting
history besides boxing. (B. 16/'l2/’26). Golf was
played in Victoria as far back as 1847, but. the
earliest games of which records exist -were played
in 1855 not far from the present Concord (Sydney)
links. John Dunsmore, a Sydney solicitor, is said
to have introduced the game into N.S.W. and some
of the sticks and balls are preserved by the Aus-
tralian Golf Club at Kensington. The officers of
the Calcutta which arrived in Port Jackson at the
end of December, 1803, are credited with the intro-
duction of cricket. In 1821 Gov. Macquarie pre-
sented Rendall's School at Macquarie Fields with a
dozen bats and six dozen balls. In 1826 the
Military Cricket Club was formed. The Sydney
Gazette of Jan. 2, 1830, mentions a match played
on New Year’s Day for heavy stakes before a
crowd of 100 spectators. Football dates back to
1829, but the game was not organised until 1858,
when startling innovations to the Rugby code were
introduced by the pioneers who started the Mel-
bourne Football Club. The first steps to set Rugby
Union upon its feet were taken in 1870. Soccer
originated in 1880 and the Rugby League broke
away from the R.U. in 1907. The first boatrace
recorded took place on May 16, 1818. in four-oared
gigs over a course from Bradley’s Head to Sydney
Cove. F. Kitz was our first swimming champion;
in 1867, following a series of wins in Victoria, he
claimed the title. Lawn-tennis championships began
in Melbourne in 1880, and the first intercolonial
game was played in 1885.
THE BOGEY MEN.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
This is the song of the golfing gang
Who scorn wet ground and weather;
Who let the humdrum world go hang
And storm the greens together;
Who stalk poor Colonel Bogey’s wraith
And wonderful stories tell us,
At the nineteenth hole, until, i’ faith,
They make us madly jealous.
Did they halve three holes from the second green
To the tee on the bumpy seventh?
Then one, with strokes that are seldom seen,
Would be “three up” at the eleventh,
Till the other sliced round the dog-leg bend
And found the pin with his “second” —
But their object, right to the course’s end,
Was to conquer the ghost that beckoned.
Colonel Bogey, he died long since,
If ever he lived, but his ghost is
A silent challenge that makes men wince
Wherever a tee-box post is;
And there’s “bogey four,” or “bogey three,”
Or whatever it may be, painted—-
And none would wonder, it seems to me,
If a limit man screamed and fainted.
But bolder than brass are the bogey men,
Talking and walking together,
And the ghosts retire to their graves again
At the tramp of their stout shoe-leather.
“We’re two up,” chuckle the bogey men;
But they’re glummer than old, old fogeys
If the spectre raises its head again,
And the honor again is Bogey’s.
Brave as the British bowmen were,
The bogey men go marching,
And the frightened birds in their high nests stir,
As the screaming balls fly, arching.
Oh, Bogey holds the greens all night
And all their wide environs,
But through the day his spooks must fight
The bogey men’s hot irons.
Such wonderful tales, at the nineteenth hole,
The bogey players tell us.
We see each shot so truly roll,
And grow so madly jealous.
But I often wonder, if one should die
And Colonel Bogey met him,
Whether the bogey man would lie
Or let the Colonel get him.
N.S.W.
WILL LAWSON.


Dependable
GUNS
and
RIFLES
Attractively Priced
at
Mick Simmons’
No. 14.
No. 14—THE CERT CO.’S D.8J8.i..
GUN, 12-gauge, top-lever, 30in. steel
barrels, left choke, extension rib, re-
bounding locks, pistol grip, walnut
stock; weight about
71b
£3/3/-
(Carriage Paid.)
No. 17.
No. 17—THE CERT CO.’S D.8.8.L.
GUN, 12-gauge, steel barrels, left
choke, extension rib, bar locks, X bolt,
pistol grip, plain finish;
weight about 71b
(Car ,, iae r e Paid.)
£4/5/-
xa ?
No. 22.
22—RIVEBSIDE ARMS
8.8. L. GUN. 12-gauge, top lever,
bolt, steel barrels, both clioke,
matted rib, rebounding locks, pistol
grip ; tested for nitro powders ; weight
7 Jib. to ,81b.;
barrels
30in.
£4/17/6
(Carriage Paid.i
No. 2.
No. 2—STEVEN’S “LITTLE SCOUT"
SINGLE-SHOT RIFLE, 22-calibre,
18-in. round steel barrel, open rear
and knife-edged front sights;
weight about
23/6
(Postage, N.S.W. 1/3; other
States 2/2.)
No. 5.
No. 5 —STEVEN’S “FAVOURITE”
RIFLE, 22, 25 or 32 calibre R.F., ox-
-22 W.R.F.. round 24in. barrel, case-
hardened frame, solid breech block,
take-down action, open front and
sporting rear sights; weight,
4*lb
44/-
(Postage, N.S.W. 1/9; other
States 3/2.)
No. 12.
No. 12—WINCHESTER REPEAT
ING RIFLE, 1906 Model, 22-cal. 16-
shot, 20in. round barrel, plain trigger,
straight grip, ladder rear sights, slide
action ; magazine handles 15 short, 12
long or 11 long rifle
cartridges; weight
about sjlb
£4/17/6
(Carriage Paid.)
Mick Simmons, Ltd
“The World’s Greatest Sports
Store,”
Headquarters: 720 HAYMARKET,
SYDNEY.
Branches:
City, Suburbs, Newcastle, Brisbane.
iPOLm
ISN’T IT WORTH IT ?
Since RIPOLIN has been made there have been
more attempts to imitate this
ENAMEL PAINT
than any other —yet to-day it is as dis-
tinctive as ever in richness of tone and
brilliant finish. Its durability makes it most
economical. A few shillings per gallon more,
yes—but you get the beauty and durability.
That’s the difference.
ISN’T IT WORTH IT ?
WHITE AND A LARGE VARIETY OF SHADES PROCURABLE PRACTICALLY EVERYWHERE.
For inside and outside use on wood, metal, cement, stone, etc.
L. A. CORMACK (Factory Rep.), 4 Underwood St. (otf 35 Pitt St.), Sydney
Public Notice.
Notice.
RETURNS OF INSURANCE PREMIUMS REQUIRED
FROM PERSONS, ETC., INSURING WITH
ANY INSURANCE COMPANY NOT REGISTERED
IN NEW SOUTH WALES.
Pursuant to the Fire Brigades Act 1909 and the
Fire Brigades Amendment Act 1910.
All persons, firms, companies and associations
being owners, trustees or agents for any goods or
property within the Sydney Fire District and every
other Fire District in the State of New South Wales
to which the Fire* Brigades Act 1909 and the
Fire Brigades Amendment Act 1910 have been
applied, in respect of which premiums are paid to
an insurance company not registered in the State,
are hereby notified that they are required to send to
the Board of Fire Commissioners of New South
Wales returns showing the amount of such premiums
paid by them in respect of the said property to
such insurance companies during the year 1926.
The time appointed for receipt of the returns
is on or before the 31st January, 1927; subject to
a penalty not exceeding £1 per day for every
day of default.
NOTE: Returns are required only of the proportion
of the premiums properly chargeable in respect of
the Fire Risk during the time such property was
in any Fire District under the said Acts.
By order of the Board of Fire Commissioners of
New South Wales.
11. M. WEBB, Secretary.
213 Castlereagh Street, Sydney.
December 1, 1926.
Public Notice.
Notice.
RETURN OF INSURANCE PREMIUMS REQUIRED
FROM INSURANCE COMPANIES.
Pursuant to the Fire Brigades Act 1909 and the
Fire Brigades Amendment Act 1910.
All insurance companies, as defined by the above
Acts, are hereby notified that they are required to
send to the Board of Fire Commissioners of New
South AVales returns showing the total amount of
the premiums received by or due to such companies
in respect of risks against fire during the year
ending 31st December, 1926, within the Sydney
Fire District and every other Fire District in the
State of New South AVales to which the Fire Bri-
gades Act 1909 and the Fire Brigades' Amend-
ment Act 1910 apply; less any part of such pre-
miums actually paid by way of reinsurance to any
other insurance companies contributing under the
said Acts.
The time appointed for receipt of the returns
is on or before the 31st January, 1927; subject
to a penalty not exceeding Five Pounds for every
day of default.
Forms upon which to make the required returns
may be obtained from the undersigned.
By order of the Board of Fire Commissioners of
New South AVales.
H. M. WEBB, Secretary.
213 Castlereagh Street, Sydney.
December 1, 1926.
Have you tried the New
LODGE
•rapii
Q
O
PLUG
on your Morris ?
The feature of this new plug is that
you can maintain full power from your
engine as long as you like with no
fear of the plug overheating.
This new Lodge plug is also excep-
tionally good for easy starting and per-
fect slow running.
Lodge plugs are made in dif-
ferent models to suit all makes
of engines, and are obtainable
from leading accessory dealers,
garages, and stores.
Note long reach.
Ask for Lodge C. 8.3 for Morris,
Packed in Cream Metal Box (sealed).
LODGE PLUGS LTD.,
RUGBY—ENGLAND.
S/6
PLAIN BEARING
Lubrication Work Reduced from
100 Working Hours to 8.
One Industrial Organisation which installed SKF Bearings
found that the work of lubrication was reduced from 100 hours
to 8 hours per year —SKF Bearings can be lubricated in spare
moments.
The reason is found iu the construction of SKF Transmission
Bearings.
BEARING
STANDARD HANGER
STANDARD PLUMMER BLOCK
THE SKFBALL BEARING CO. LTD.
Melbourne: 595 Bourke Street.
Sydney: 45 King Street.
Adelaide: Wm. Adams & Co. MJ.
Brisbane: Wm-Adams &Co l.td.
Perth . Uhbehaun & Johnstone
(W.A.) Ltd.
I^aunceston: W. H. Knight &
Peter Bros. Ltd.
Hobart:'Charles Davis Ltd.
THE INKY WAY.
The Mail, of sleepy Nelson, in Maorilaml,
lias just been celebrating its 60th year. It
issued a 40-page paper to mark the event.
The Colonist, a rival daily, was gobbled
up by the Mail years ago.
Jimmy Lymer, who for 35 yeax-s or more
was head of the boys’ brigade in the Mel-
bourne Herald office, has retired owing to
continued ill health. He saw one general
manager (Winter) die, three other general
managers (Reay, Davidson and Wise) and
one editor who was not a general manager
(Innes) leave. Many and many a boy owed
a start in life and a lift up the lower rungs
of the ladder to Jimmy, who could size up
a lad better than most men.
“Knib” : Gilchrist, the new Clerk of Vic.
Uppah Chambah, was a junior on the Argus
when the Little River railway disaster
occurred in the late ’eighties, and he was sent
with Sam Whittaker, then a star descriptive
writer, to do the story. He found the engine-
driver just as he was dying, and, according
to Gilchrist, the man’s last words were,
“Thank God, I have done my duty.” The
country was thrilled, and Gilchrist was
marked down for promotion. “Gillie’s” hear-
ing was wonderfully keen in those days.
This Christmas was a jubilee for veteran
writer .T. A. Philp, who, as a youth of 16,
started to chase news for the Auckland Star
(M.L.) —and that was 50 years ago. He
found the Rickety Islands too slow, and
came to Sydney, where he was on the Bul-
letin staff for some time, and has been a
contributor ever since. At the beginning
of this century he commenced a long-distance
attachment to the Brisbane Courier. Fhilp
has written some very presentable verse.
“Some Bulletin Stories” and “Jingles that
Jangle” represent his contribution to Aus-
tralia’s output of books.
“Gent. One”: Those who can summon
memories from the vasty deep of the ’eighties
and ’nineties may recall E. P. Field. Re-
cently barristers and solicitors, to whom this
once familiar figure in Sydney streets and
law courts is unknown save by name,
found in the morning’s post a moving appeal
to righteousness from his pen—for many
years he has been associated with the work
of the London Missionary Society. He must
be a patriarch by this time, but in his day
-—his erratic day—he was a fine, handsome
chap. With his presence, his cultured style
and fine voice he had more than a sporting
chance at the Bar ; though he had no backing
of influential friends to give him a start, it
was only a question of waiting and working.
To bring in a few' guineas he took up jour-
nalism of a kind, and a remarkable kind for
his sex. In those days women journalists
were almost unknown, and women’s needs in
the way of gossip and modes w'ere not catered
for as they are to-day. The only prominent
woman worker on the Sydney newspapers
was old Mrs. Carl Fischer. Field, with the
suave smile and polite manner that sug-
gested “Gentle Annie,” took up this branch
of journalism with quite mai-ked success.
Then the poor fellow’s throat began to
trouble him and a period of frosty fortune
withdrew him from public notice. His next
appearance was in the character of one who
had been “converted.” His favorite pitch
at mid-day was at the corner of Castlereagh-
street and Martin-place. He claimed that his
voice had been restored to him by a miracle
and as an act of thanksgiving he devoted it
to the Church. Now 30 and more years after
his exodus from this land he again attacks
(lie seemingly impregnable citadel of the law.
“The Little Rascal”: “John Cow’s” allu-
sion (B. 9/12/’26) to Tom Batlio, Com-
munist arid printer, reminds me. In ’O4
Bill Holman, Jim Desmond, Billy Hughes,
W. Yewen, Tom Batho, A. S. (“Charlie”)
Filter and Tom Routley started a Labor
paper and christened it the New Order.
Harry Turnbull, a D.T. comp., joined later.
Not one of the syndicate had a bean to spare,
but a general election was imminent, and
a Micawber-like spirit of optimism prevailed.
We secured two large top-storey rooms at
the corner of George and Market streets;
Tom Batlio lent the type and printing neces|
saries. Filter, Batlio and Turnbull did the
mechanical work; Yewen was editor, W. A.
Holman sub-editor, Billy Hughes rounds-
man and general contributor, and Jim Des-
mond office poet; while Townsend, of Pitt-
street, did the machining. Each and all of
us would bring along trotters, onions, Ger-
man sausage, saveloys, biscuits, etc., which
were devoured in the editor’s sanctum.
Hughes was a candidate for West Sydney,
while Holman was running against Johnnie
Hawthorne for Leichhardt. We used to set
up handbills for Hughes, and the wharfies
would come along during their dinner hour
and work them off on a small Albion press.
Hughes was returned, but Holman was
defeated by 94 votes. After the election the
New Order died; had Holman been returned
it might have struggled on.
THE POET TO HIS LOVE.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“Ah, come, dear lass,’’ the poet cried,
“To where the sad, enchanted tide
Yearns dumbly to his mistress Moon,
And craves, as I, some lovers’ boon
Will lift him, though in truth he lie
On earth, its floor; yet dreams to fly
The highest peaks of ecstasy”....
The maiden sighed. “Come off!” said she.
“Ah, come,” the frenzied poet wailed,
“To some dim glade where sense assailed
By faery spell of sound and scent
Forgets the flesh wherein ’tis pent;
Till love, ethereal, sublime,
Has lost the last of beast and slime,
And blooms in awful purity”....
The maiden sniffed, but nought said she.
“Ah, come,” he begged, “no matter where,
By grove, by shore, for I dare swear
Some Ros’lind and Orlando stood
At gaze within our chosen wood,
Some staunch Leander dared to reach
His hero on our chosen beach;
With you the fateful option be”....
“The ‘pitchers’ ’ll do me,” said she.
(’Tis true, though some the truth denied,
He strangled her before he died.)
VICTORIA.
HASEN.


By Appointment to
mmm
H.M. King George V,
‘TOI.
V
m
ui«i
2*
J.i»,
cm
The Main Leyland Factory — Leyland, Lancashire, England.
CONSISTENCY
With a long record of undoubted leadership in its field,
and a product scientifically tested from the raw material
up, Leyland presents a twofold consistency.
The number of Leyland Lorries in Australia still continu-
ing to deliver satisfactory service after years of constant
gruelling work forms further tangible proof of Leyland
consistency.
Intrinsic worth and intrinsic quality, coupled with that
forward-looking policy with which Leyland has become
identified, have originated a chassis that cannot well be
improved.
Leyland consistently features all that is New and Labor
Saving in the Lorry world, based on the sturdy, depend-
able, consistent Leyland Chassis.
“LEYLANDS CONSISTENTLY
GIVE LASTING SATISFACTION”
PRICES OF STANDARD AUSTRALIAN CHASSIS
Ex Sydney or Melbourne Works:
2- £720
3- £B5O
4- £1075
5- £llB5
an
HEAD OFFICE
24 GROSVENOR ST
•• SYDNEY "
ENGLAND
SERVICE STATION
AUSTRALIA ST.
CAM PER DOWN
TELEPHONES a 7951-8.7952 -—TELEGRAMS LEYMOTORS-SYDNEY
George Spotswood, who passed his 87th
milestone the other day, has lived in Wil-
liamstown (Vic.) all his life. He was the
first white child born there. His sister mar-
ried Maoriland’s Dick Seddon, and the
suburbs of Seddon and Spotswood are named
after the two families.
“Brady’s Lookout” : “Pink Tape” is wrong
wlien he states that the Black Horse Hotel at
Richmond (N.S.W.), licensed in 1819, is
the oldest house of call in Australia. A
license Avas granted to Mistress Ann Bridget
for the Bush Inn at New Norfolk (Tas.) in
1810, and the old house is still carrying on
business.
A throwback to Viking days was the
funeral of Captain William Palmer Collins,
an old salt who for many years steered
Union boats on the run between Maoriland
and the Speck. His body was cremated, and
the ashes were scattered on the ocean 10
miles off Lyttelton Heads by members of the
Masonic Lodge to which he belonged.
“Prop”: The rattle of the motor-car has
cut out the shepherds’ pipes for calling the
flocks together in Queensland. Almost all
the Northern sheep are being fed from cars,
and the sound of the motor in a paddock is
the signal for the starving sheep to gather
and follow-my-leader after it. Where main
roads travel the paddocks the sheep get more
discriminating, and soon pick out their own
particular Ford.
“Longshore” : Running between Melbourne
and the Speck is a vessel which should
remember November 11, 1918. She is the
Union Co.’s Nairana, which, when the
"knock-off” sounded, was patrolling the
frozen shores of northern Russia. Just pre-
viously she had helped in the capture of
Archangel, and her seaplanes had sunk a
ship in which the Bolshevik Chancellor of
the Exchequer was escaping with the
treasury.
“Really” : Early residents on the deserted
mining-fields of Victoria, returning to their
home towns, find great changes in the once-
familiar gravel dumps. Old centres like Caris-
brook, Clunes, Allandale and Creswick have
changed little except that the shops and
tenements have become very dilapidated.
But the enormous dumps have either dis-
appeared or are fast being depleted. Old
mines that never paid a dividend have lately
proved money-makers. Railway sidings have
been laid dowm to many dumps, and roads
are being made and renewed all over Vic-
toria with the gravel.
“S.T.S.”: Stanley Unwin, of George
Allen and UnAvin, Ltd., gives some striking
probate figures in his new book, “The Truth
About Publishing,” John Lane and William
Heinemann, fairly at the head of the busi-
ness, left respectively £12,000 and £33,000,
Avhereas booksellers of Cheltenham and
Oxford were worth £35,000 and £54,000, and
mere “literary agents,” Pinker and A. P.
Watt, £40,000 and £60,000. Then came
popular authors —Rider Haggard, £61,000,
and the deplorable Garvice, £71,000. After
which there is a long jump to journalist
Heyry Lucy, with a quarter of a million,
and Ingram (Illustkated London News)
Avith a trifle more than that. “Do not go
into publishing if money-making is your
chief objective,” says Unwin firmly.
“Nikky” : Patriots who want a really Aus-
tralian smoke will soon have an opportunity
of trying one. Some ingenious person has
found that certain varieties of gum-leaves
can be cured and made into cigarettes and
fine-cut pipe tobaccos. The smell is that
of a bush fire, only more aromatic and less
stringent, and Avliile the stuff seems to have
much the same nerve-soothing effect as
tobacco, Government analysts have given it
a clean bill-of-health. I tried some cigar-
ettes of the preparation after years of
abstention from smoking, and experienced no
discomfort. Probably the stuff will find a
medicinal sale, if nothing more, since it is
a pleasant Avay of Inhaling eucalyptus, and,
as a reminder to Australians in exile of the
land they have left, nothing better could be
thought of.
“Pill”: Speaking of forgotten bank bal-
ances. A friend of mine, a ledger clerk in
the Old Country, was very curious about an
account that had never been operated on
since 1862. The account was headed "Ex'ors
of [say] Jane Morgan,” but no Ex’ors were
named, and the address of the deceased was
not given. As the balance was in the vicinity
of £BOOO, it looked as if some persons had
slipped on their job. Thinking he might
find investigation remunerative, the clerk
started haunting local graveyards and rum-
maging in registers, reasoning that Jane was
unlikely to have lived far from the town
Avhere she banked. His efforts were eventu-
ally rewarded by the discovery in a small
country church of a brass plate that gave
him all the information he required. The
rest was easy; with the assistance of a
solicitor he sold his information to the only
people it was of use to, and obtained 10
p.c. of the full amount on it, though the
beneficiaries’ lawyers made frenzied searches
in every direction before they yielded to his
terms. I Avonder how many more dormant
accounts there are lying about in old banks!
Back from a trip to Monte Carlo, the
Riviera and the Dalmatian coast, 80-year-old
Henry Parker, ex-Chief-Justice of Westralia.
When Groperland obtained responsible gov-
ernment in 1890, it was a toss-up whether
the late John Forrest or Henry Parker would
be the first Premier. The latter was a lead-
ing lawyer, with family influence to help
him, the Parker clan being one of Westra-
lia’s “Six Families,” but in those days he
was accounted rather more conservative than
his surveyor-explorer rival, and Bigjohn got
the preference. Parker served under For-
rest for a term as Minister, but found him
too autocratic and broke with him completely.
Both men were destined to rise high.
Forrest, after dominating W.A. politics for
10 years, became a Commonwealth Minister
and once Avas within an ace of being Prime
Minister. Parker returned to the law and
rose to be Chief Justice. When he retired,
something over 10 years ago, he left his home
State, where he had seen so much history
made and helped to make it—he was a real
political force in the old Legislative Council
of the ’eighties—and settled in Melbourne.
The ex-Judge was born in York, a Westra-
lian agricultural hamlet, and called t* the
Bar in 1868.


mmm
Spend Your Summer Holidays
at the new "Hotel Manly”
Right opposite the Manly Wharf is
this new luxurious Hotel. Expense
has been no object in making it one
of the finest resorts of its kind in
the Southern Hemisphere. From the
moment you step into the Reception
Hall you are surrounded with com-
fort and personal service. Large and lofty
bedrooms, with tasteful, new furniture and
spotless linen, give restful invitation, and
the constant supply of hot and cold water
to each room is a refreshing boon to every
guest. You can lie abed with reading-lamp
and telephone at your elbow....you can
enjoy the artistic atmosphere of the perfect
music-r00m.... or wield a racquet on the full-
sized roof Tennis Court.
Motoring guests have the convenience of
an ample basement garage—and the surf is
only four minutes distant.
Make early summer reservations at the
Hotel Manly and be certain of holiday con-
tentment.
Room and Breakfast only, from 13/6 per
day; Exclusive accommodation from £7/7/-
per week.
Full particulars and complete tariff will
be posted immediately in response to your
inquiry to
Hotel Manly,
Manly, N.S.W.
Manly 1961 (4 lines) and Manly 27.
SUNDRY SHOWS.
SYDNEY SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Her Majesty’s “Rose Marie’’
Criterion “Cobra”
Royal “The Yeomen of the Guard”
Grand Opera House “Aladdin”
Palace “Abie’s Irish Rose”
St. James “Jack and the Beanstalk”
Fuller’s Vaudeville
Tivoli Vaudeville
MELBOURNE SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
His Majesty’s “The Cousin from Nowhere”
King’s “The Naughty Wife”
Royal “Pins and Needles”
Princess “Puss in Boots”
Athenaeum “Meet the Wife”
Tivoli Vaudeville
Bijou Vaudeville
Majestic Moving Pictures
Hoyt’s Moving Pictures
4, i
Judith Anderson will commence to vamp
Sydney on Saturday, when “Cobra” raises
its hood at the Criterion. To clear the way
for it, “Is Zat So?” makes an end to-night
(Thursday). The Gilbert and Sullivan co.
will wind up the affairs of the “Gondoliers”
this week also to allow “The Yeomen of the
Guard” to march into the Royal on Satur-
day. Fortnightly changes are the rule of
the G. and S. people; the Yeomen are to
be followed by “The Pirates,” then come
“The Mikado,” “Pinafore” (with “Trial by
Jury”), “lolanthe” and “Princess Ida.” An
extra week may be given to the popular
“Mikado.” “Rose Marie” to-night (Thurs-
day) reaches its 260t1i performance, and the
bright show is still full of running. “Abie’s
Irish Rose,” now at the Palace, talks about
fading. The rest is pantomime; and,
although there are four of them in Sydney,
the managements say there was never a
Christmas like it. In “Aladdin,” at the
Grand Opera House, Dorothy Lena’s voice
suffered under the strain of wet weather and
two shows a day, and Dorothy Dewar (this
is Dorothy’s day all right!) stepped brightly
in the shoes of the principal boy for a few
days—she was previously Prince Pekoe.
“Jack and the Beanstalk” are gathering bags
of gold from a giant Public at the St.
James; and at the Hippodrome “The Babes
in the Wood” are doing as well as nurse can
expect. The “Babes’ ” cradle contains,
amongst other things, a harlequin show,
which old hands, remembering their youth,
rather wistfully miss in most modern pantos.
** * *
The New Empire Theatre, at Sydney’s
Railway-square, is so far advanced that the
management is able to declare with cer-
tainty that the show-house will open on the
last day of February. It was to have been
March 1; but the time has been advanced a
day for an opening benefit in aid of the hos-
“PINS AND NEEDLES,” AT MEL-
BOURNE ROYAL .
Saronova does the “Danse le Scimitar”;
Jack Morrison, the principal comedian,
as a waiter.
pitals. “Sunny,” a musical comedy from
the London IJipppdrome, introduces the ven-
ture, which begins a sort of tariff-war. The
new theatre will hold 3000 people, and,
reckoning on small prices and big houses,
the management is offering Egbert the oppor-
tunity of buying Eveline one of the most
exclusive seats for five bob.
* * * v
Sydney Tivoli is satisfied with what
Henry Santrey and his band and Anna Sey-
mour have been doing for it during the holi-
day—and ought to be. The Santreys are an
amazingly busy band of entertainers; their
two shows a day. which to most people
appear exacting, are not enough for them,
and they are continually being billed to
appear as a super-attraction at some special
dance or other function. Yet each per-
formance sees them at the Tivoli with the
appearance of having enjoyed the sort of
sleep that comes after a well-spent holiday.
# * * *
The Veterans of Variety are still farewell-
ing at Fullers’ (Sydney), where Jake Fried-
man, George Campbell, Florence Hinton and
Arthur Slater let floods of reminiscences
loose. The Zig-zag Revue Co., which owns
the tall Oliver McLennan, who, like Bertie
Wright, was not fitted into any of the
pantos., fills in time seasonably by being “At
the Party,” which has a couple of scenas in
which Nellie Dean shows brightly.
* * * *
The seax-ch for the week’s best picture
In “The Blackbird,” a grim picture of London
slums, Lon Chaney, with only the aid of the usual
facial makeup for the screen, appears in two sharply
contrasting parts. He is a typical Limehouse rough
and a pathetic, grotesquely-twisted cripple. The
scenes in Limehouse are artistically portrayed; but
it is the faces in the streets that evoke praise for
their character and realism. The story has an eerie
fascination, and it ends in an artistic and poignant
death scene. As a piece of screen art it is to be
commended for its inevitable unhappy ending. That
must have perturbed the movie director. The picture
is showing at Hoyt’s in Sydney this week.
Its epic background, the coal and steel industry
of Birmingham (U.S.A.), dwarfs the petty figures
who play their parts valiantly enough in the
finely dramatic picture, “Men of Steel.” Gargantuan
cranes, red cascades, of molten metal, enormous
machinery and the pygmies who feed these monsters
form a scene fitted for giants. The steel-workers
appear strangely elemental, crude figures without
souls, for many of the big scenes are enacted by the
toilers themselves; and the final scenes are thrill-
ingly dramatic. No movie actors could have handled
those episodes. The hero (Milton Sills) loses interest
when he puts on his top-hat. In his ignorance he
was a virile figure. Doris Kenyon is beautiful but
hardly necessary in the big scene when a maniac
controlling a cauldron of molten metal attempts to
murder two men fighting beneath. This picture
almost attains reality. It appeared at Hoyt’s and
the Strand on Saturday.
— d- —t— —i-
Unwooed by invitations from the usual
addresses, this Showman wandered on Old
Year’s night into a new kind of theatre. A
lamp inscribed with a figure and two cabal-
istic letters is the only “electric” that
hangs over the front door. A lift takes the
spectator to the auditorium. Nobody miixds
if you go behind the scenes. The scene-
shifter is a quite eliicient-looking mechanician
who turns switches in a wordless hush. On
another floor is the stage. It consists of
a polished dance-floor, draped with flags
and decorations and set about with comfort-
able settees. The stage manager sits at a
central table surrounded by more switches.
He is, significantly, an old actor with seven
years’ service at Drury-lane and 26 with
J.C.W. to his credit—a year ago he was
managing for Boucicault. There is a grand
piano in a corner and an orchestra in
another. Although the room is empty except
for the stage manager and an old negro, the
orchestra puts colored-paper caps on its head,
assumes an air of determined jollity and
prepares for strenuous business. The stage
manager turns a switch, and, smiling ingrati-
atingly at a small disc, remarks in the
beautifully dramatic accents of the legiti-
mate theatre, “3LO speaking. 3LO Melody
Masters will now play ‘My Girl Has Eye
Trouble and Can’t See Me.’ ” Whereupon
the conductor springs to attention, the jazz
tune begins and (this Showman has it on
official guarantee), in dance-halls at Sor-
rento and Mordialloc, bush schools of art in
Queensland, on ships’ decks 5000 miles away,
on bungalow verandahs in the Solomons and
even in European houses in Japan, couples
clasp each other and proceed to walk around.
The music thumps to an end. There is a
solitary encore. It arrives by ’phone from
Albert Park and is at once acceded to. Anon
an elderly negro gets up, smiling and bowing,
waddles towards anotlier disc mounted on
a single elegant Jacobean leg, and proceeds
to sing “Hawaiian Kisses” to it. There is
something pathetic about this old negro.
Time was when he cut his droll capers and
contorted his humorous black face in a hun-
dred music-halls, with the romantic glare
of the spotlight upon him and intoxicating
i - oars of laugliter in his ears. Now he rolls
his glistening eyes, flashes his white teeth,
agitates his legs, shoots jewelled cuffs, shakes
a finger at an imaginary crying baby and
raps out a i*etort to a fictitious interjector in
a perspiring effort to overcome the limita-
tions of electricity and place himself before
the biggest audience he has even known.
Only a solitary chuckle and the mournful
clapping of the stage manager accompanies
him back to his seat.
* * * *
But 3LO, which is progressive, realises
this deficiency in its equipment. It aims at
making the entertainment as like flesh and
blood as science will permit. The old-
fashioned studio like a padded cell has gone.
The modern studio has become gay,
bustling and even noisy. The room
begins to fill. Couples jazz in unison with
the couples scattered about the starry night
outside. A lady in sequins is spurred to fresh
ascents in song by applause which she can
hear and which the listeners-in can hear as
well. The stage manager does not object if
the scraping of a chair leg or an unre-
hearsed lover’s sigh gets mixed up in the
programme and wanders to Dog’s Flat.
Everytning must be done to make Dog’s Flat
think that it is not at home. For, murmur
the radio enthusiasts, this is the only theatre
of the future —the theatre of Shakspeare and
the Dolly Sisters is doomed. Between the
vocal items the stage manager sends out
communications from the police. “Will any
listener who knows the whereabouts of Jane
Smith ask her to come to the Dash Hospital
at once, matter very urgent?” The jazz
breaks out again, the couples clasp, but a
faint shadow of tragedy seems to hang about
the room.
** * *
If a plebiscite were taken of the most im-
portant aesthetic attraction in Melbourne at
present, the lady in “Pins and Needles” at
the Royal who emerges from a flower-bowl
clad mainly in green light would probably
win. Playgoers have not enjoyed the spec-
tacle of quasi-nudity in this particular form
for a long time, and they seem to like it,
although a thousand more artistic shapes
are to be seen on any seashore. “Puss in
Boots” is still the Princess’s handsomely-
dressed affair, although on the comedy side
it. is a rather tame cat; and “Sinbad” is at
the Playhouse. “The Hottentot” continues
to draw lovers of horse and horseplay to
the Palace, holiday crowds are flocking to
“The Cousin from .Nowhere” at His
Majesty’s, and to “Meet the Wife” the
“ROSE MARIE,” AT SYDNEY HER
MAJESTY’S.
Frederic Bentley an the imaginative, hard-
boiled Herman and his deadly, trusty
Genevieve.
Lizzies and the Rolls Royces draw up in
serried ranks outside the Athenaeum. The
insipid "Naughty Wife” is still at the King’s.
v V
At the Melbourne Tivoli, Leopoldi, a
quick-change specialist who carries a green-
room on his person and indulges in represen-
tations of the great composers, provides an
entertaining turn that verges on the intellec-
tual. J. Francis Haney and Co. are jazz
hoofers from America, whose feet are more
intelligible than their chatter. The Long-
fields, balancing people, are also from Amer-
ica ; but the organ-like Launceston City Baud
came from nearer home, and the Urens are
eight clever twisting children who belong
to Melbourne. Little Tich continues to excite
laughter out of all proportion to his height;
and this showman has a feeling that if the
imp of fame were full size, his attractiveness
would be nothing out of the common.
* * * *
At Melbourne Bijou there is little that
calls for mention besides revue-artist George
Wallace, who this week is “Dangerous Dan.”
At Hoyt’s Melbourne h.q. this week Milton
Sills is giving free rein to Italian emotions
in “Puppets,” an interesting film yarn which
begins in the Little Italy of down-town
N’Yoik, and gets entangled in the European
war. At the Majestic A. S. M. Hutchinson’s
circus story, “The Happy Warrior,” is being
screened.
* * *
Adelaide shows for Christmas were all
lightweights. The Theatre Royal has a
Maurice Dudley, of 3LO, Melbourne, wno
nightly talks from the sky to a million
or so children.
juvenile co., under Frances Scully; Baby
Kerr has a precocious charm, Jackie Clark
and Stella Lamond are often funny, and
Marie Crowther dances beautifully. The
Majestic lias pantomime, with Lily Vockler
as Mother Goose, Doreen May and Grace
Savieri principal boy and girl, and Joe
Morris the Goose. Children again are at
the Prince of Wales in a Carter panto.,
“Puss in Boots.” In the open-air is Billy
Maloney, greatly assisted by Colin Crane and
the Prince sisters. Jones whom things Hap-
pened to is on the screen at the York,
Reginald Denny being really comic; “East
Lynne” bobs up again at Wondergraph, but
Little Willie, greatly daring, does not die.
The most striking programme is at West’s,
where Barrie’s “Kiss for Cinderella,” with
Betty Bronson, pairs astonishingly with-a
fight between Rin Tin Tin and a condor. !.
“Mere Australian”: According to “E.T.”
(B. 16/12/’26), “Joseph of Canaan,” inter-
dicted by the British Lord Chamberlain,
would have been allowed to break out in
London if its name had been changed. “The
British censor never allows the name of
any Scriptural character to be introduced in
play titles,” sgys “E.T.” But he allowed
the British version of the Bible story to be
staged in England as “Joseph and His
Brethren.” Wliat’s the diff.?
“Caesar’s Ghost” : Much advice has been
passed across the footlights to mummers who
in some way offended the audiences ; but only
once in my recollection has it had reference
to laundry. As a thespian had the habit
of returning unwashed the shirts he continu-
ally borrowed, the male members of the co.
declined to lend him any further linen. That
night in the play he was a peer in dress
clothes; and he had to say: “What should a
man do in my position?” A ribald stallite
shouted, “Wear a clean shirt!”
“A.G.M.” (Lond.) : A new opera by
Arrigo Pedrollo, based on Dostoievsky’s
novel “Crime and Punishment,” was success
fully produced at La Scala on November 10
and warmly acclaimed by the music-lovers of
Milan. This production came at the very
moment when Gatti Casazza announced in
New York that worth-while operas were not
now being written. Pedrollo’s work is un-
usually interesting. The orchestral and
choral music is full of dramatic expression,
and its symphonic grace is admirably suited
to the theme. The ' librettist, Signor
Foranza, has done well in the translation
of the tragic story into three acts, ending
happily in the regeneration of Sonia and
her student lover. The staging of the
Siberian scenes was specially effective; and
the whole work was so excellent that the
production has been given a leading place
in the regular repertory.
“De Oriel” : All of the little halls in the
“smalls” of New South are not labelled
Schools of Arts. The village of Home Rule,
via Gulgong, has a public hall registered as
“The Wyaldra Theatorium.” While we
were at Turriff (Vic.) a cyclone blew the
tin hall over: then the wind changed and
blew the hall back on to its feet again—and
we showed that night.
“Wigs”: “Cobra,” the American play
which will bring Judith Anderson back to
her native footlights as a star, was written
by Martin Brown. That playwright first
appeared on an Australian programme l a
few years ago. He is the author of the
strange and none-too-pleasant piece, “The
Lady,” in which Pauline Frederick appeared.
“Cobra” is just now much in evidence in its
picture form, with Rudolph Valentino mov-
ing eerily across the screen.


Starts Thursday, 6th January
0
V i
■
I
a
iMca
a
• 1
<3
■
Order Your Suit -to - Measure Now
fin i
//A
9L
Remember! Every
Suit - to - Measure
is reduced at least 10 per cent.
Our Famous
27/6 46 Austral” Boots
Guaranteed 4 Months
\<
Black 24/9 or Tan
The longest-wearing and most-comfortable boot
made. Specially built to resist the hardest wear.
Wax-thread stitching and best-quality leather
throughout. Sizes, 5 to 10. In Black or Tan.
Usual Price, 27/6. Less 10 per cent., 24/9,
Despite these low prices, Gowings’ guarantee that you will get exactly the same hig
quality of tailoring and material as you would if you paid the usual price. 1 ° obt “"
these prices, however, orders must be placed or posted on or before Saturday, the Mh
February—the last day of the Sale. Those received before or after the Sale can only
be filled at usual prices. Send for patterns now.
£7/15/- All-wool Worsteds or Navy Serg
Here’s an exceptional value and a chance for you to save 35/6.
For your choice there is an All-Wool guaranteed Indigo Dye
Navy Serge in the new fancy Diamond and Basket weaves, also
a fine Herringbone design. In AX/orsteds of there aie
new Blue and Slate Grey tones woven into small Diamond designs.
£7/15/-, Reduced to £6/13/6. Less 10 per cent
To measure
£5/19/6
£5/5/- All-Wool Tweed
Suits-to-Measure Now.
There is a wide range of
colourings and designs for
choice in these All-Wool Eng-
lish and Australian Tweeds.
Carefully tailored to measure.
Usual Price, £5/5/-.
Less 10 per cent
£4/14/6
£B/15/- All-Wool Worsted
Suits-to-Measure Now
Super-quality All-Wool Wor-
steds in Mid and Dark Grey
shades with Pinheads, small
Herringbones and fine Dia-
gonal designs. A reduction
of 42/9.
£B/15/-, Reduced to £7/7/-.
Less 10 per cent.
£6/12/3
Hundreds ot Savings in Every Department
115/- Worsted Suits, 89/6
Ready-to-wear in all sizes and available in the new
art shades and designs. These suits are well
tailored and exceptionally smart.
115/-, Reduced to 99/6. Less 10 per cent,., 80/6.
15/6 Working Trousers, 11/3
Grey Cotton Tweed Working Trousers, with side
or cross and hip pockets and plain bottoms.
15/6, Reduced to 12/6. Less 10 per cent., 11/3-
21/- Gabardine Trousers at
Fawn Speckled Gabardine Trousers with
straight-cut tops. Made with belt loops, |LJ /
buttons inside, side straps, and cuff XO/“
bottoms. 21/-, Reduced to 20/- /
Less 10 per cent
Summer Underwear
White India Gauze Vests, with half-sleeves.—
Sizes 34,36 38,40
Usual Prices 4/6 5 /*
Less 10 per cent... 4/1 4/6
Knicker Drawers to Match. —
Usual Prices 5/- 5/6
Less 10 per cent 4/6 4/11
42, 44
5/6
4/11
SEND FOR SPECIAL SALE CIRCULAR
POSTED FREE ON REQUEST.
We Pay Carriage.
GOWING BROS., LTD.
486 George-Street, Sydney.
Branches at 304 and 454 George-Street.
6/9 Zephyr Shirts, 4/11
Made from woven striped English Zephyr in Golf
style. Black, Blue, or Helio stripes on White
grounds. Guaranteed fast colour.
6/9. Reduced to 5/6. Less 10 per cent., 4/11
6/9 Khaki Drill Shirts, 5/10
Strongly made, with two military pockets and flaps
to button. Will give lasting service.
6/9, Reduced to 6/6. Less 10 per cent. ..... 5/10
11/6 Summer Pyjamas, 8/11
Made from a light-weight Winceyette of splendid
wearing quality. All sizes. Full, roomy cut.
11/6, Reduced to 9/11. Less 10 per cent., 8/11.
2/9 Black Cashmere r\ /
SOCKS for
Three Pairs for 5/9.
An exceptional saving opportunity. All-Wool Black
Cashmere Socks of strong-wearing quality. Buy
now for months ahead.
2/9, Reduced to 2/3. Less 10 per cent 3/-
21 / -Wide Brimmed
“Grazier” Hats,
18/11
A fine all-weather hat for the country man.
Made with a full crown, firmly blocked and a
wide 3% -inch brim with a plaited leather
band. It is pure fur felt and available in Fawn
shade. Sizes. 6V2 to 7|.
Usual Price. 21/-. Less 10 per cent., 18/11.


300-YARD BEAM.
mmm
THE IDEAL TORCH FOR
ALL USES.
THE NEW WINCHESTER FOCUSSING
TORCH throws a narrow beam of light for a
distance of 300 yards. Ideal for all outdoor
purposes. In the car, on the land, boating or
fishing. Nickel Case, 3-J-inch lens. Length of
torch 10 inches. Price .... 21/-
WINCHESTER 100-YARD FOCUSSING TORCH.
Fibre case, well finished. 6£in. long. Neat
and compact. Price 157-
WINCHESTER PLAIN TORCH, 6£in. long.
Fibre case. Strong and serviceable. Price, 8/6
All Winchester Torches are fitted with patent
Safety Switch, and are remarkably strong.
Spare Batteries for the large torch, 3-cell, 2/6
Spare Batteries for the smaller torch, 2-cell, 1/y
Postage on Torches, 9d. Spare Batteries, 6d.
SPORTS CENTRE.
318 Little Collins St.. Melbourne.
MART ELL'S
For- Every 3
Occasion
Martell’s for Age and Quality.
From the Cosnac District
of France only .
h
41
(lIIHW
;
TRUE TO TIME
The name C Y M A is the
synonym of good timekeeping
*
-5
"Right with
the Sun *
SOLD BY
ALL JEWELLERS
CYMA
Poverty
Point
“Goldilocks”: Probably the threat of a
theatre-tariff war in Sydney, to arrive with
the opening of the Empire (prices from ss.
downwards), is in part responsible for the
Fuller change of plans as regards the St.
James building. The roof-garden theatre
is not to be gone on with; the plans are
being altered to provide for offices instead.
It looks a sounder spec.
TWO OF A KIND.
“Ho, an actor, are you? Well, I’m a bank
manager, and let me tell you I don't
frequent theatres.”
“ Don’t mention it, old boy. I don’t frequent
banks.”
“Caesar’s Ghost”: A real skyscraper in
Sydney, a building of 45 storeys on the lines
of the New York Woolworth building, is
the ambition of the Fullers. But they will
have to get the building regulations stretched
first. At present the maximum height is
150 ft. The site on which their fancy builds
a tower is at the corner of King and Eliza-
beth streets.
“Ancient Galleryite”: The late Rupert
Clarke—with partner Clyde Meynell—had
a good run for his money as a theatrical
entrepreneur. Incidentally, he supplied the
competition in the business which, unfortu-
nately for both mummers and public, it lacks
to-day. Before it was swallowed up by the
Williamson directorate, the Clarke-Meynell
management gave us many a sound drama
played by local actors, and was responsible
for bringing hither Oscar Asche and Lily
Bray ton, and the best of modern musical
pieces, “The Arcadians.”
“0. Ockney”: Acting for the J.C.W.’s,
Frank Tait has been buying up the rights of
the most recent London hits. These include
the Herbert Clayton and Jack AValler suc-
cessor to “No, No, Nanette,” at the Palace —
“a romance with music” called “Princess
Charming,” the score of which is by a Hun-
garian composer, Albert Szirmai. Another
musical piece is “Queen High,” which is an
old farcical friend, “A Pair of Sixes,” with
songs and dances added, and in which Joe
Coyne is the mainstay at the Queen’s. A
“straight” comedy, “The Whole Town’s
Talking,” by the authoress of the over-
boomed “Gentlemen Prefer Blondes,” is an-
other Tait purchase for the Firm.
“Hamfat”: Nellie Stewart, who is going
to repeat in Melbourne her Sydney experi-
ment of reviving “Sweet Nell of Old Drury,”
lias proved that there is good metal in some old
goldmines. She is said to have got almost
£2OOO as her dividend for the fortnight. And
she got something she valued even more—
further proof of the public’s affection.
“Sweet Nell” loves that.
“Cornstalk”: For the third time in succes-
sion Charles Walenn returns as principal
comedian of a G. and S. opera co. His brother
Gerald is on the Con. staff. After appear-
ances as a boy soprano, while still a youth
Charlie added some years to his age in order
to squeeze into the Savoy chorus —then a
great privilege. Very soon after, with a
company of 70 people, he took part in the
command performance of “The Gondoliers”
at Windsor Castle before the late Queen
Victoria and an invited audience of 200.
This was the first command performance
after the Prince Consort’s death, and is still
talked of.
“Alwyn” : Re “The Gondoliers’ ” familiar
stage settings (B. 30/12/’26). Phil Goat-
cher painted the drop cloth for the first pro
duction in Australia over 30 years ago. De-
spite its age and use it looks fresh, and has
not even been “revived” for the present sea
son, the original pigments having retained
their brilliance. The cloth is an admirable
example of the scene-painter’s art. I fancy
the late John Brunton painted the original
second act. Yet on referring to the current
programme I notice “Scenery by W. R. and
W. Coleman, junior.”
“Middle Blue”: I agree with “L.F.8.”
(B. 30/12/’2(3) that Gladys Moncrieff
deserves some credit for herself; but what’s
the matter with giving a little to the pic-
ture-show proprietor who first engaged her
to warble to the public? Hugh Ward heard
her there.
“Black Out” : “Bobette” (B. 30/12/’26) may
be right in saying that Dorothy Cummings
was never in the chorus, but she did a tall
amount of supering before she took a part
at all. Walter Bentley thought she would
never make an actress, and wailed constantly
about “Those hands! Oh, those hands!” in
Dorothy’s distant amateur days. There is
a story to the effect that her very first
lines were to be “Good morning, Burgo-
master !” but she could not say them.
Dorothy’s success was never due to her acting-
abilities. She was always a lovely lady,
gracious in manner and speech. Nothing
could ever spoil her, because she possesses
what only one actress in ten thousand has
—character plus personality.
“Flaming Youth”: Eve Gray, who won a
beauty competition run by the Evening
News when the habit was young, has at
length secured a lead in London. She has the
chief woman’s role in “The Top Drawer.”
Just after she had won the beauty competi-
tion the Fullers captured her for a Hippo-
drome panto., but gave her no startling part
—she was short of training, and her voice
was weak. But she showed intelligence—
and modesty. Since going to London, where
she early struck parts that required little
more than good looks, she has expanded
dramatically.
“Flaming Youth”: Anona Wilkins, now
Anona Winn, is another successful Austra-
lian abroad. Lee White gave her a chance;
later she had to be content with a place in
a show which did a season at Manly. But
in England she has struck a place as second
woman lead to Josd Collins in “A Greek
Slave.”
“A.G.M.” (Lond.) : Evelyn Scotney’s
engagement to sing at Covent Garden next
season brought her within sight of her great-
est ambition. At the moment, however, there is
much tribulation, as a domestic event of
unusual importance is timed to conflict with
the dates fixed for her operatic triumph. So
it is unlikely that she will be heard at Covent
Garden during the next season.
“Curtain Raiser” : “Q.Q.” (B. 30/12/ 26)
infers that the arrangement between the
Melbourne Repertory Society and the com-
mercialising Taits will smirch the pure
ideals of the old organisation. My impres-
sion is that the said ideals were well on
their way to being smirched before the I aits
arrived. I quote from a programme issued
by the society before the amalgamation:
“The Repertory movement received its
primary impulse from the people; it will
develop in the direction that the people s
will indicates, and it will continue as a
living force in the lives of the people so
long as it has their sympathy and approval.
If this sentimental balderdash means any-
thing, it indicates that the Melbourne “little-
theatre” people are going to compete in their
own line of hocus-pocus with the movies
(“the people” showed the direction of their
will by paying 100,000,000 visits to the
movies' last year), and with the flapper
theatre presided over by the Fullers, the
Williamsons and the Taits (no protests have
yet been heard from “the people” about the
direction they are taking).
“A.G.M.” (Bond.) : Before leaving Eng-
land for her winter tour in Germany, Pav-
lova gave a brilliant party at Ivy House,
her lovely home in Hampstead. Already
TURNED ’EM AWAY.
AUGUSTUS ROARER: “Been appearing before any full houses
lately?”
SEBASTIAN BARNSTOPMER: “Yes, laddie; yesterday I met my
creditahs!”
noted for swans and other feathered pets,
Ivy House now has a new aviary of 60 birds
collected by her on her Australian and
S’African tours. Pavlova confesses that
many of her ideas of color and grace of
movement have been suggested by the plu-
mage and flight of her pets.
“John’s Wood” (Lond.) : The abrupt end
of “Love Adrift” at the Gaiety was a great
disappointment to genuine lovers of music,
for it was a highly-artistic production.
Maybe it was not discreet to produce at
that house a musical play without any
spoken dialogue. The changes have freed
Lute Drummond from her engagement; and
she is now at Covent Garden busy with
preparations for the next season. Her sister
Jean has gone to Milan to run through
“Turandot” with a maestro for the forth-
coming production of Puccini’s work in
London.
“Alleena”: Sullivan, of the immortal part-
nership, wished to direct a musical friend
to a house, of which he’d forgotten the num-
ber. But he indicated the block. “It faces
the river,” he went on. “It is on the right-
hand side. The door-knocker resembles a
crotchet, and the gate-hinge squeaks E flat.”
The searcher picked it in one.
“Darned Mounseer” : Why is “Ruddigore”
again missing from a Gilbert and Sullivan
revival? This production, which came be-
tween “The Mikado” and “The Yeomen of
the Guard,” was a considerable success at the
Savoy, and had good provincial and Ameri-
can runs. It was a conspicuous success, too,
in the recent revival of the G. and S. cycle
in London, and it is about time this country
had a chance to judge it. It has been
objected that the spirit of the old melodramas
and of the Family Herald novels, which
Gilbert satirised in “Ruddigore,” would not
be understood by Australians. Tosh! It
flourishes evergreen in such popular plays
as “On Our Selection,” while 9d per cent,
of the fillums out of Hollywood are sticky
with it, and will be as long as virtue is
applauded and villainy vanishes ’mid the
roars of a righteous gallery. Music and
lyrics are beyond reproach ; and the libretto
is in Gilbert’s best vein. It’s up to the Firm.
If England can stand “Ruddigore” so can
this country.
“Digger Stror ’At” : It is well known that
in the Gilbert and Sullivan operas the intro-
duction of any bit of business not originally
invented by Gilbert at the Savoy, or one note
of music not scored by Sullivan, was strictly
forbidden. Yet at the opening performance of
“The Gondoliers” in Sydney the other night
Slapoffski’s baton allowed Effie Armstrong
(Tessa’s understudy) to sing a complete
cadenza of notes not in the score of “When
a Merry Maiden Marries.” Patti Russell also
took a liberty with “Kind Sir, You Cannot
Have the Heart.” I was beginning to like
Tessa very much, but after this incident I
had no interest in her performance.
“Caesar’s Ghost” : The Steinach films for
the popular advertisement of new-surgery
methods and results is only the start; the
idea now is to film all intricate operations
by skilled surgeons so that they can be
shown for the education of medical men the
whole world over. It seems a useful pro-
posal if the nerves of the skilled surgeons
can stand the whir of the camera in the
background whilst they are engaged on work
in which there is only a hairbreadth between
success and the death of their patient; and
it is only the beginning of the usefulness
the film may reach when it has ceased to be
regarded as an amusing toy.
“Old ’Un”: Could
there be a greater
contrast in comedy
methods than those
of the Bluetts,
father and son 1
Both established
t'un-makers, Dad
Fred relies on the
old-fashioned, full-
bodied, broad style
to get his laughs.
The youthful Gus
affects a light
voice, and, at
times, an effemi-
nate manner,
which, though it
gains many a guf-
faw, might with
advantage be
dropped. Both
sing humorous dit-
ties with point,
and Gus possesses
another valuable
asset he is a
really excellent
eccentric (lane e r.
Sons and daughters
of theatrical
parents usually,
and naturally, copy
the style of their
parents, but Bluett
junior is develop-
ing on his own
lines.
“Sphinx”: In Oscar Asclie’s rendering of
“The Merchant of Venice,” two of the artists
who played minor parts were unforgettable.
One was Grimwood, the Moor, in the casket
scene ; the other, Caleb Porter, a Tubal
whose features registered the varying for-
tune of Shylock as the trial progressed. The
nervous anxiety, the unspoken sympathy arid
the anguish made Porter’s little job a master-
piece.
“A.G.M.” (Lond.) : Pauline Bindley made
her first appearance in Ireland at the open-
ing performance of the Carl Rosa opera in
Dublin when she sang the rble of Mar-
guerite to the delight of a crowded audi-
ence. One cultured critic said: “Pauline
Bindley is quite an exceptional Marguerite.
In the Jewel Song she had ideas of her own.
It was not a matter simply of brilliancy of
execution ; she had joy in her voice, and she
displayed excellent technique.” Very high
praise was given to her Doll in “The Tales
of Hoffmann,” and another role in which
she has made a hit is Rosina in “The Barber
of Seville.” As Norina in the newly-revived
“Don Pasquale,” her acting has received
more praise than her singing.
“De Oriel”: I hate to contradict “Butt
Innitt” (B. 23/12/’26), but before Allan
Wilkie left for London he assisted most of
his performers to secure positions in other
shows (non-Shakspearean). His actors are
now widely scattered, and it became neces-
sary to import a few leading people. Be
procuring wardrobe in Australia, Wilkie has
secured a lot locally; but there were no
“Henry VIII.” properties or costumes in
this country.
“W.E.F.”: The youth of our country
doesn’t take Rudolph Valentino as seriously
as recent paragraphists would have us be-
lieve. The other night I viewed “The Sainted
Devil,” with the idol of the flappers in the
star rble. From start to finish an audience
of youths and maids in their late ’teens
barracked the departed Rudolph. The flap-
pers, instead of gazing with reverent eyes
and hearts fluttering, greeted the fondling
and lip-smacking with derisive cackles and
sarcastic comment. The younger generation
is getting tired of tin; sloppy sheik stuff.
GOOD-BYE, TWENTY-SIX!
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
I said “Good-bye, old Twenty-six,”
And drank his health, and lo!
The past and future seemed to mix
In panoramic flow ;
’Twas mostly panto, politics
That made my picture-show.
I saw a man of mighty mug
And Mussolini mien,
Who crushed opponents like a bug
Is crushed by paws unclean;
Three rebels took him by the lug
And swung him round the scene 1
Then came election clouds to loom
And wake a woeful cry,
But soon the echo filled my room
Of heavy feet afly,
I heard the union’s chant of doom—
“ Our darling must not die!”
I saw the City Council shift
The Town Hall out to where
A scented suburb lives to lift
Aromas past compare;
“We’ll run less risk of being sniffed,’
They said; “it’s homelike there!”
Soft Communists came preaching hate
To help the common good,
And bring about the perfect state
Of love and brotherhood ;
They called each other Comrade, Mate,
And fought like tiger-brood!
And then a wild and childless band
Chased Good Old Piddo far;
They shouted, “Where’s my children?” and
Their grammar seemed to jar
And drive him to his own dream-land
Beneath the morning star.
Big union bosses ran to claw
And kick a small Boy Scout
For laughing at a Labor law
That did away with drought
All these and other things I saw
Who watched the Old Year out.
N.S.W.
ZECH.


/
No Equal Value
in Safety Razors
THE razor that sharpens its own blade. The blade that
stands up to its task. The strop that keeps the edge on
the blade.
These are the components of the “Valet” Auto Strop set illus-
trated below. No other safety-razor embodies the self-stropping
principle in its own frame. With the “Valet” there is nothing
to take to pieces for either stropping or cleaning, and forty or
fifty shaves from one blade is the modest claim of this—the
world’s finest “shaver.”
BRITISH
MADE.
#<
VALET
99
.Awto
Safety Razor
O/ a// dealers
Managing Agents for Australia:
PHIPSON & COMPANY, LTD.,
181 Clarence Street, Sydney.
a
No. 99 SET—Contains the essentials for
perfect Valet” shave—the razor, strop
and blade in leatherette-covered case. . 3/6
iiiflii
jnjIUiLJ
CiS.'.iW
fesss
»«€»
• •
MAM
M'tfM
NEW EDISON
Delight in
its marvellous realism
all through the year
New Edison music is truly satisfying
to your inmost self; you feel that the
voice of life breathes in every record
you play. It is true music at last 1
Put on ail Organ record —the majestic gamut of tones leaves
you gasping. Piano —Soprano—Chorus—Bands—Orchestras
there is a beauty in reproduction that others are still seeking
but Edison has achieved.
To show our belief in the New Edison we will willingly let
you hear it in your own home, for side-by-side comparison
with any other instrument on the market. Choose your
New Year phonograph at borne —write i/.<? i to-day!
NEW EDISON
Demonstrations
and
Catalogues from
SYDNEY The Edison Shop, 51 Castlereagh Street.
BRISBANE—W. H. Paling & Co., Ltd.,
86-88 Queen Street.
ADELAIDE—S. A. Phonograph Co., Ltd.,
Gilbert Buildings, Gilbert Place.
MELBOLRNE—The Edison Shop, 238 Collins Street.
PERTH—Phonographs, Ltd., 653 Hay Street.
LAUNCESTON- Wills & Co. Pty., Ltd., 7 Quadrant.
Or your nearest Edison Dealer.
Wholesale only:
THOMAS A. EDISON, LTD.,
364-372 Kent Street, Sydney.


* T^-*-**„
7 7
1 / :
V
a
A
£
s®
r
in
o
V
77
■
m
m
i
-V
a as
C
1
*»e
<» 4i
*
FI
(S
a
£\
'C
BALLOON TYRES
107—26
TN the development of such
A a tyre as the modern low
pressure balloon, the
experience and the
experimental resources of
a company like Goodyear
do tell and tell greatly.
Next Time Fit
Goodyear SUPERTWIST Balloont!


Drink ENO
and revel in the Sunshine
Of course, we all love sunshine. Sunny days are the
making of a holiday. But there’s the heat! Some of us do feel
it rather badly.
When the heat becomes oppressive, when you have hardly
energy enough to enjoy the sunshine —then ENO’s “Fruit Salt
nuts fresh life into you.
Just a ‘dash’ of this famous saline in a glass of water and you
have a delicious, sparkling health-drink that cools, refreshes and
relieves that parched, dry feeling. The invigorating effects of
ENO are real and lasting —because it does more than ordinary
cooling drinks can do. ENO tones up the whole system, purifies
the blood and thus enables you to withstand the unaccustomed
conditions of strong air and high temperatures.
ENO'S-FRUrr SALT
(THE WORLD-FAMED EFFERVESCENT SALINE]
TfiH'jrpr
6\
H ei
..
[?V~~
/AT:
K\-,
JX\JU2
ft
3^
A
The Handy Size
ENO—
just right for
holiday makers,
is a shapely, flask-like
bottle with an air-tight
screw cap. The screw cap
makes a useful measure,
and the compact size of
the bottle is convenient for
handbag or pocket.
Prepared only by
J. C. ENO, LTD., London,
England.
Sales Agents:
The British Harold F.
Ritchie & Co., Ltd.,
333-337 George Street,
SYDNEY, Australia.
SOLD • EVERYWHERE IN
TWO SIZES
**o*N AM* USffi FOA MAC* A CttMnJWT
rv. aca*/. jk mac
m.
SEtf}
j# wifi
IV *—' !
TMt WOm-O FAHtO
!%«£_ PLEAS AN T,COOLING
»» INVICORATINC,
'|T\'l llr- * I TUT lUIMI
MTHEALTH-CIVINC
Wj* EFFERVESCENT SAUNE
!fe<®>
Cqr> flcasant.coOunc ,
INVIGORATING !
ffIr.HEALTH-CIV.INC_. ;)
OMLY •’
,^S V|
tNO
EnGc*
Limited


FOR
ARCH4TECTS, ARTISTS, DESIGNERS,
DRAUGHTSMEN & OFFICE USE.
BRITISH
AOE
Perfection
PirSK RUBBER
fienffd fiend/*
/xxrper/act i t'onO.
mmm
mmm
The favourite of
everyone who has
once used it.
L & C HARDTMUTH, LONDON, Eng.
Agent:
J. MACDOPQATjTi, G.P.O. 166 SYDNBT
KOH-INOOB
Public Notice.
The Producers’ Distributing Society,
Limited.
NOTICE.
Sydney.
NOTICE is hereby given that the FIRST
ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING of
Shareholders in THE PRODUCERS’ DIS-
TRIBUTING SOCIETY, LIMITED, will be
held in the SARATON THEATRE,
PRINCE STREET, GRAFTON, on Thurs-
day, 20th January, at 11 o’clock sharp.
BUSINESS:
To receive Directors’ Report and Balance
Sheet to 30th September, 1926.
To elect Auditors for the ensuing year.
The retiring Auditors, Messrs. Francke],
Spencer and Co., and Halberg, Parsons
and Anderson, are eligible for re-election.
To transact any other business that may
be brought forward in accordance with
the Articles of Association.
Dated the 3rd day of December. 1926.
By Order of the Board.
R. BLACKET, F.C.I.S., Secretary.
Legal Notice.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF
1 QUEENSLAND.
Matrimonial Jurisdiction.
To NINA EVELYN CRANK wife of
Daniel Crank formerly of Rockhampton in
the State of Queensland but subsequently
of Sydney in the State of New South Wales
but whose present address is unknown.
TAKE NOTICE that an Action was on
the eighteenth day of December 1926 com-
menced against you in the Supreme Court
of Queensland at Brisbane numbered 591 of
1926 by your husband Daniel Crank that
the Plaintiff by his Writ of Summons claims
a Dissolution of his marriage with you and
by the Petition filed in this Action alleges
that on or about the eighth day of January
One thousand nine hundred and twenty at
Sydney in the State of New South Wales
you deserted the Plaintiff without cause and
since then have deserted him without cause
continuously for a period of more than five
years AND, TAKE NOTICE that the Court
has by an Order dated the twenty-second day
of December 1926 directed that Service of
the said Writ of Summons and Petition on
you by posting up in the Registry of this
Honorable Court at Brisbane a Copy of the
Writ of Summons and an Office Copy of
the Petition and the insertion of this Notice
ence in the Brisbane Courier, a Newspaper
published in Brisbane aforesaid and once
in the Sydney Morning Herald and once
m The Bulletin both of which are new-
spapers published in Sydney in the State of
New South Wales shall be deemed good and
sufficient service of the said Writ of Sum-
“ons and Petition on you AND TAKE
rriTT,Ar.„t you are required within
YH1RTY DAYS from the last act done in
pursuance of the said Order to cause an
Appearance to be entered for you in the
Registry of the Supreme Court of Queens-
land at Brisbane and that in default of your
so doing the Plaintiff may by leave of the
L '°V r J, or a Judge proceed in the Action
and that Judgment may be given against you
in your absence.
ber^Uth/ ) t^*'S twenty-fourth day of Decem-
F. S. KENNEDY,
t „ Acting Registrar.
James Crawford and Williamson,
Solicitors for the Plaintiff,
Justice Chambers,
Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
Missing Friends.
JOHN GEORGE HOLROYD.
ANY persons having knowledge of the
HT,V. < ; ]lll(]ren or grandchildren of
JOHN GEORGE HOLROYD, who died in
Clermont Hospital 19tli March, 1876, are
requested to communicate with the under-
signed.
CHAMBERS, McNAB & McNAB,
Solicitors,
loy Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
If any illustration in The Bulletin takes
your fancy, write to the Manager, who will
quote you price for the original.
<
■ ■■■ ■
if
m
The Texas Ranger Cowboy Saddle
£l3/13/-
FREIGHT PAID FOR CASH WITH ORDER
TO ANY N.S.W. RAILWAY STATION.
Write for our Catalogue of Texas and
Australian Saddlery, showing other
styles of Cowboy Saddles.
BS4.—COWBOY BRIDLE, fancy
studded, with standback throat and
gunmetal bit, with nickel horse head
on cheek, 76/-
BS3.—COWBOY BREASTPLATE, studded
to match bridle, 75/-
B7O.—COWBOY CHAPS, with fringe, 85/-
850. —COWBOY BELT, ornamented with
brass studs, 27/6 each.
BISI3.—COWBOY SPURS, gunmetal with
nickel spots on side, 25/- pair.
81274.—C0W80Y SPURS, nickel plated,
16/6 pair.
B4I.—FANCY SPUR LEATHERS, 5/6 pr
B6I.—COWBOY FANCY CUFFS, 12/6 pr
BBO.—BRAIDED COTTON LASSO, 15/-.’
Post 1/-
BBI.—BRAIDED LINEN LASSO, 22/6-
Post 1/-
WALTHERg STEVENSON, LTD.
395 George Street,
Sydney.
UCE
1
J/ost ffolirooASays —
“l brew my sauce in the
good old fashioned way.
Aye, and then I mature it
like an old wine.*’
Amusements.
YD N E Y’S CHIEF THEATRES.
J. C. WILLIAMSON, LTD., present
HER MAJESTY’S: ROSE MARIE.
CRITERION: COBRA.
THEATRE ROYAL:
THE YEOMEN OF THE GUARD.
GRAND OPERA HOUSE: ALADDIN.
3YD N E Y’S BEST SHOWS.
Direction Sir Benjamin Fuller & Mr. John Fuller.
PALACE: ABIE’S IRISH ROSE.
ST. JAMES: JACK & THE BEANSTALK
FULLERS’ THEATRE:
FULLERS’ VAUDEVILLE.
RICKARDS’ TIVOLI THEATRES.
Lessees: Harry Rickards’ Tivoli Theatres, Ltd.
MELBOURNE and SYDNEY.
TWICE EVERY DAY—2.3O and 8.
CELEBRITY VAUDEVILLE.
The World’s Best.
J.
C. WILLIAMSON, LTD.,
MELBOURNE ATTRACTIONS.
HIS MAJESTY’S:
THE COUSIN FROM NOWHERE,
KING’S THEATRE:
THE NAUGHTY WIFE.
“fHEATRE ROYAL, MELBOURNE.
Proprietors .... J. 0. Williamson, Ltd.
Direction Ada Reeve.
EVERY EVENING AT 8.
ADA REEVE, with JACK MORRISON, in
PINS AND NEEDLES.
“A Revue with points.”
DRINCESS THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
The Theatre Beautiful.
Sir BENJAMIN FULLER and JOHN FULLER
present
PUSS IN BOOTS,
London’s Greatest Fairy Pantomime.
Every Evening. Matinees Daily.
Plan at Glen’s.
Reserved Seats 7/- plus tax. Matinees 5/- plus' tax.
Children half-price to all parts.
ATHENAEUM THE A T h
MELBOURNE.
EVERY EVENING AT 8.
Return of the Nice Americans,
“The Best People” Co.
In the Delightfully Funny Comedy,
MEET THE WIFE.
Direction E. J. Carroll.
|y|AJESTIC THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
KENNETH HARLAN and PATSY RUTH MILLER in
THE FIGHTING EDGE.
A MASTER PICTURE.
Box Plan at Allan’s and Theatre. ’Phone 7076 & 7790.
|V|EW BIJOU THEATRE, MELBOURNE
* • Twice Daily, 2.30 and 8.
GEORGE WALLACE REVUE CO.
Popular Prices. Plan Cen. 5251.
Amusements.
HOYT’S DE LUXE THEATRE.
31ERBOURNE.
MARGARET LIVINGSTON in
WOMAN POWER.
WILLIAM HAINES and MARY BRIAN in
BROWN OF HARVARD.
Prices as usual.
s
r-i
itIYE
AIVERS
Jor a name
A NEW CIGARETTE
—* Made in Australia
from Australia’s own
Native Eucalypt
Can You Suggest
a Name?
and win
£25
NO ENTRY FEE
iSO
IN
PRIZES
And a Consolation Prize for EVERT
Competitor! Send in your entry on the
Coupon or on plain paper.
COUPON.
“Competition,” Box 212 D, G.P.0., Sydney.
Dear Sir,
My suggestion for the wanted name is
Name
Address
J.
Competition closes 31st January, 1927.
Results will be advertised 28th Eeb., 1927.
Prize money deposited with Manager,
Bank of N.S.W., Haymarket, Sydney.
“The Woman’s Mirror”
Published every Tuesday
PRICE 3d.
It deals with every subject of
interest to women.
Answers to Correspondents.
No notice (except of a hostile character) will be
taken of communications insufficiently stamped.
Name and address must appear on the MSS. No
liability is undertaken re contributions .volun-
tarily submitted; and no MS. will be returned
unless stamps accompany.
G.B.: Can’t you give us something better
than that to go on ?.... Timotheus: Come down oft
your stilts and talk plain English W.E.B.: You
confuse the telling a bit; try to improve it
G.L.A.: We’ve not only stuffed our Christmas goose,
we’ve eaten it; your sage offering would be stale
by next Christmas.... Pat: When you rhymed “Mac-
artney with “player of parts l(e” you were caught
in the slips... .T.O.M.; “And Christmas brings me
back the tears That I wept long ago.” Well, don’t
make the sauce so strong S.T.B.: Whistle’ “The
Dog.” We don’t want him John P.: Put us to
sleep. .. .Maurice G.: When you enter your Pegasus
for a trot, see that he doesn’t gallop Sally (Mil-
dura) : The clear, joyous sounds from Misery’s watch-
tower ring through them W.W.: Why this haste
to go west ?... . E.F.O.: In poetry and prose over
50,000 despised yobs have died gloriously in effecting
rescues from burning buildings Cam G.: In these
days of vegetable shortage try us with some onions.
We can do without the tripe Geo. R.: Every dull
temperance tract fortifies our conviction that there
is need for beer.... Quince: Friend Quince, your
little comedy hath no Bottom.... Della: When the
Religious Editor was found weeping on the doorstep
at midnight he blamed your pathetic verses. His
wife still insists it was whisky T.P.A.: Useless to
sing about N.S.W. cricket now unless you have a
break in your voice Annie R.: You, too, have
the idea that a real, nice Christmas yarn must have
heaitbreak in it....R,L.: Old-age verse is spoih
by a touch of rheumatism. Might be cured
L.H.C.: Ancient moralising; the Psalmist put it in
a couple of lines. .. .H.B.W.: The “sombre-wonder”
attempt is another entry for the courageous-rhyme
competition J.S.F.W.: Too long an insult to
fling at the lady B.W.: The spook will hot haunt
our pages... .J.K.: Commonplace... .G.P.R.: It
takes a long road, and it’s returning Joko:
Sorry to hear that “Luck only treats you with
despise.” Surely it sometimes treats you with beer?
. ...J.A.K.; Close up. . . .H.Y.: No hot pie and
saveloy for your diplomat G.C.L.: Not bad, but
purge your style of stilted phraseology. .. .T.W.: Your
heroine needs a nerve tonic G.S.C.: No order for
your whisky with a body in it. .. .K.G.M.: The
“wonderful, enchanting, swan-like princess” is
dreaming in the basket L.H.C.: Most of it is
poor rhyme, but “learning” and “morning” isn’t
rhyme at all... .P.J.M.: Sheep verses have foot-rot.
Poitrel: “Bad Company” went bung. .. .R.M.L.:
Because Ah Pong gave five bob to the local hospital
we ought to admit all Asia! Tell Bruce about it.
J.B.L.: In all its beauty unadorned by stops
and caps, “Go to billy-oh” goes here:—
hard work i did not care about
My farther showed me the door;
called me a low-down, loafing lought
dont come hear no moor
all right said i’ll leve you now
i’ll rolle up bluey and go
before we have another row
i’ll go to billy oh
of i went with head bent down
on a dry and hungery track
left my home and native town
with my swage upon my back
hard work to me it dose not pay
its to do the grand you know
befor i work hard for one day
i’ll tramp to billy oh.
....Jean B.: IVe found “Convicting the Prisoner”
a dreadful trial Bert W.: Better ; but the marks
of the factory are too evident R.C.H.: Get a better
end D.B.O’C. : Quite good, but, if used, last line
will need altering. In verse you can toy with your
facts, but never with your metre.... G.P.: The thing
is jumpy with marks of exclamation Phil L.:
Two have a chance; the financial giant who didn’t
know when he had to renew a lease is too far-
fetched. .. .H.Y.H.: Good matter in whirlpool story,
but you ill-use it Gladys M.: It gives a new touch
to S.M.H. “In Memoriam” verse:—
For weeks you battled with your illness;
We scarcely then knew how you' did it;
Then fell black Doom, the awful stillness,
And Death had won. Oh, how we chid it!
... .Me: All too slight. ... J.G.F.: A most unexciting
bit of excitement l’.R.G.: You made a sob story
out of a man coming out of gaol. Isn’t it more
tragical to stay in... .M.K.P.: Improving; this one is
too unreal for The B., but may do elsewhere
P.L.T.: We don’t take things written with a
steal pen M.N.L. : It trips as lightly as a sozzled
elephant. .. .G.M.B.: You’re “a builder, not a story-
writer.” Well, you have some idea of telling a
story; but what would you think of a bricklayer
who built a good wall and lumbered it round with
useless bricks? Regard words in the same way as
bricks, and you’re on your way... .R.A.B.: The
material of one iss good; there is no thrill in the
story as told. Glad to read more L.H.C.: “Have
a Wet?” is an appealing title; the verse proved only
water M.B.J.: Doesn’t suit Maid Marion: Be
good, sweet -Maid, and let who will be clever—if
that’s your idea of being clever.... Doormat: Not
well enough done.... .E.C.T.: Nothing in it S.T.S.
(Vic.): Says nothing Jumbuck: The essential
part of it could be put into 15 lines S.N.R.:
“Bibliophile” is best, but is mechanical in parts.
Worth working on. . . .Tablelander: The prospectus
has been withdrawn. .. .D.A.B. : Verse pale and
eeho-y. “Since” is a respectable word —why drag
“sith” out of its grave? A.M.H.: Amron, James
G., Carmel, Q.P., Scholar, S.R.M., James W (Towns-
ville), N.B. (Gipps Street), Pauline: All good enough
to be sent on for a second reading, but then crushed
out... . J.J.B.: Your metier is historical fact:—
After many years of calm sleep,
Pompeii, Herculaneum, both are
Slowly freed from tons of hard deep
Ash, revealing every pillar.
C.S.P.: It’s too pretty-pretty to criticise....
R.L.: Had a narrow escape from the basket.
TO ARTISTIC (AND INARTISTIC)
CORRESPONDENTS.
F.J.: Your art is bogged as badly as your car
Wallace: One jest is too obvious and the other-
unintelligible. The art is probably not original.
C.A.R.C.: “Tenders” was not thankfully received;
neither was the Scot outside the garage. ...NS *
Can’t print your rainbow-hues. Also wouldn’t....
C.T.W.: Countless bores have whispered that long-
winded joke irtto our ears.... A.L.: Is it because you
live in a flat that you draw on such a microscopic
scale ?.... J.H.: If Paris had been confronted with
that pair of beauties he would have used the Golden
Apple to pelt them with E.R.A.: Poor idea in
clumsy scratches O.A. J.: Look us up when you
have practised a bit more N.W.: Effort to depict
clubman struggling to don an overcoat is a pathetic
little spasm M.W.F.: Took 15 minutes to unpack
and five seconds to reject.


Y..
w>
%
T
n
C
rfect
■ft
?/
When you open your next tin of REX _ PYE, look well
at the can. Note the absence of seams —each tin is
stamped out. Note that no solder or soldering flux is
used - each tin is hermetically sealed. It is the perfect
hygienic container, the triumph of up-to-date canning.
The contents are safer food during hot weather than
fresh meat —in fact, 100 per cent. safe.
Add to this :
1. That the raw materials are perfectly wholesome and of
choicest quality. Visitors from abroad inspecting our works
have said that the meats are superior to those used at any
other factory in their experience.
2. That the spicing by a recipe in our sole possession, and the
excellent jelly, help to produce the delicious flavour
characteristic of REX-PYE.
3. That the cooking en casserole retains all the wholesome
juices and high food values.
and you know why REX-PYE is the finest meat in the
world. Try it for yourself. Note the delicate aroma
as you open the tin, and the delicious flavour as you
eat the dainty.
mmm
Other REX Pure Foods in these Perfect Cans.
lib and Klb TINS
Rex Baked Beans in Tomato Sauce
Rex Lorraine Smoked Sausages
Rex Pork Sausage
Rex Pork and Beans in Tomato
Sauce
Rex K-be-B (Kidneys, Beans, and
Bacon)
Rex Devilled Kidneys
Rex Ox Tongue
lib TINS ONLY
Rex Pork Brawn
Rex Pig Feet
Rex Fry and Bacon
Rex Beef Sausages
Rex Red-y-mele,choice beef and
vegetables—a ready meal
ALWAYS SAY REX
PYE
Foggitt Jones Ltd.
Curers of the choice REX Hams and Bacon.


The
Bids
for
Him
<4
h
J
may not start on the right level, but they will finish
on the right basis if he is offered at Winchcombe,
Carson’s sale.
The firm’s determination as stork salesmen never
swerves from that goal. And Winchcombe, Carson
have the energy, skill and experience to constantly
reach it. For highest prices—
CONSIGN SHEEP, LAMBS AND CATTLE TO
WINCHCOMBE,CARSON
LTD.
Homebush Yards, or Enoggera Yards,
Sydney. Brisbane.
[l
BIRKIYRE'S CLOTH
Regd. Trade-mark.
The best waterproof for motor-car
hoods, tarpaulins, horse and cow
rugs, etc. Canvas of all kinds, cot-
ton ducks and hessians, seaming,
bagging and shop twine.
Fishing nets and yarn. Samples
and prices on application.
GOUROCK
ROPE WORK
EXPORT CO.
LTD.
379 Kent Street, Sydney.
Charlotte Street, Brisbane, Q.
460 Flinders Street, Melbourne, Vic.
A ROYAL
SMOKE
All Good
Hotels and
Tobacconists,
6(1
each.
mmm
25 Cifcais,
12/6
50,23/9
100, 46/-
Post paid to
any address.
Sampler Box
containing two
cigars, Is. Post
free.
Craigs Aitken
6548 George Street,
Sydney,
Distributors for Club
Reil Cigar Factory.
WANT TO MAKE
MONEY ?
“The ‘Wild Cat’
Monthly,”
published on the first Saturday of
every month, will help you in your
dealings with shares.
Hundreds of thousands of pounds
are lost annually in Wild Cat com-
panies. "The ‘Wild Cat’ idonthly"’
will help you to identify them.
As valuable for the Smallest
Investor as for the Largest. In fact,
the small investoi needs it most
Published by “The Bulletin/’ 2/-
per single copy; 22/6 per annum.
VV&W26.
Australia^
mm
I/ondon Office:
“Gresham House,”
Old Broad Street, EC.2.
ELECTROLYTIC ZINC
QNV2JS
mmm
brand
Containing about 99.95% Metallic Zino
(99.9% guaranteed).
ZINC CONCENTRATES
Various Grades.
Zinc Producers’ Association
PTY.
LTD.,
Contractors with the Board of Trade.
;OLLINS HOUSE, 360 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE.
Ericsson Telephone Mfg. Co.
(Formerly James Paton & Co.)
Sole Importers of the Famous Ericsson Telephone and Switchboard
Apparatus, for Magneto, Common Battery and Automatic Working.
WIRELESS APPARATUS,
19 YORK STREET, SYDNEY; 509 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE.
iVlotherhood
Wkile Students of LavJ,
Medicine, and Science are
spending years in study,
Mothers are learning {heir
business in the grim unsym-
pathetic school of experience.
After experience is {he
best teacher, and that’s why
thousands of Mothers who
hav’e reared large families so
strongly recommend
m
//>
Kruse
<This faultless Family Medicine, so safe and simple, fs
ideal both for Nursing Mothers and their little ones. It
gives instant relief in severe Indigestion, and is a reliable
remedy for Biliousness, Acidity, Constipation, etc.
Kruse’S Fluid Magnesia is particularly valuable
during dae trj)h.g period of pending motherhood. It
presents vomiting and nausea, and keeps the stomach
in a healthy condition.
For Family use the large bottles at 2/9 each are more
economical. KRUSE’S benefits people of all ages.
MADE BY FELTON, GRIMWADE & CO. Pty. Ltd., Melbourne
CAUSTIC SODA
(ELECTROLYTIC)
LIQUID— 32 per cent. Na2o.
POWDERED 98 per cent. NaOH.
SULPHURIC ACID—I.B3 s.g.
SULPHURIC ACID, C.P.—
Guaranteed chemically pure
by analysis.
HYDROCHLORIC AClD—
(Muriatic) Commercial, 33%
HYDROCHLORIC ACID, C.P.
Guaranteed chemically pure
by analysis.
CARBON TETRA CHLORIDE.
REFINED CHILEAN SALT-
PETRE.
SULPHUR MONOCHLORIDE.
ZINC CHLORIDE.
SULPHATE OF IRON.
POWDERED SULPHUR.
PHOSPHORIC ACID, 70%
PHOSPHATIC COMPOUNDS.
CONCENTRATED SOLDER-
ING AND TINNING FLUXES.
LIQUID CHLORINE
100 per cent, pure Anhydrous
In 100, 150 and 20001 b. Containers.
SODIUM HYPOCHLORITE.
MANUFACTURED BY
THE MOUNT LYELL CHEMICAL WORKS,
Collins House, 381 Little Collins Street, Melbourne.
WORKS: YARRAVILLE. VICTORIA.
Business, Robbery, etc.
N.S.W. employers must not get the idea
that they have nothing to do with the old
Workmen’s Compensation Act any more.
Under that law they are now required to
send in returns of accidents occurring in the
12 months ended June 30, 1926, and to do it
by February 13.
* * * *
“Hornabrook” : I know an old S.A. cocky
who many years ago went to a firm of
stripper manufacturers and asked them to
build him a 7ft. stripper. The largest known
machine in those days was sft.; and he was
told that it would be impossible to work such
a huge stripper as he asked for and that it
would only be a waste of money to build it.
He went the other day to a machinery trial
and watched a 16ft. harvester at work.
* * * *
“Clerk”: Rural councillors in Victoria
have a new attraction coming their way.
Chief Commissioner Clapp has instructed his
district superintendents at centres like Bal-
larat, Geelong, Bendigo and Maryborough to
rope in civic figureheads, business men and
other available dead-heads, shout for them
in the railway refreshment-rooms and then
show them around the kitchen and other
parts of the premises. Railway refreshment-
room appointments in Victoria will always
bear close scrutiny now, and Clapp con-
siders that the few quid which he forks out
to feed the visitors will be more than repaid
by the good impression they will carry away
and talk about.
“Clerk”: A place that has made a vast
difference to the Vic. railways is the reclama-
tion depot at Spotswood. Hundreds of tons
of discarded material are dumped at this scrap-
heap weekly, sorted, classified and converted
into something useable or saleable. Whether it
is an obsolete engine or an empty gum-bottle,
a rusty fishplate or a rotten sleeper, it is
turned into money. Condemned dogspikes,
for instance, can be renovated by the depot’s
plant for a total cost of £ll a ton, while
brand-new dogspikes run to £2l 10s. a ton.
Five tons of ancient spikes alone are rejuven-
ated every six days. Nothing is reclaimed
if it will cost more than 60 per cent, of its
original value to treat, and all junk that
cannot be utilised is auctioned. One of these
days Clapp will hit on a scheme for scrap-
ing up revenue from the dead matches left
on the floors of smoking-carriages.
* * * *
“FY7”: Australia’s once famous horse-
trade with India is not yet dead; over 500
gunner and cavalry types ai’e scheduled to
leave Australia for Calcutta in the 8.1. boat
Sordhana early in January. Some 50 of
the nags were on board when the ship arrived
THE ECONOMIST.
“Is your wife economical?”
"Oh, wonderfully! She shows me how I
can do without practically everything
I’d like.”
in Sydney from Melbourne last week, and
the balance will be picked up at Newcastle
and Brisbane. All the horses are for the
Indian Government, and the shippers include
one of the most experienced hands in the
game, Jim Love, once of Townsville, where
he was for long a mining broker and secre-
tary of Townsville Turf Club.
“Wang”: A new use for Oxford bags has
been discovered in Melbourne. A young man,
whose raiment included a pair of these volu-
minous “creations,” was observed by a
lynx-eyed shopman in a big drapery em-
porium alongside a table covered with silk
socks and ties, in the act of apparently tying
up his shoe laces. Keeping an eye on the
bag wearer the watcher saw him approach
another table and again bend down to tie
his shoe laces. A policeman was called, and,
protesting vigorously, the young man was
escorted to the manager’s office and searched.
Nothing was found in his pockets; but on
turning up the bottoms of his extensive
“strides” a choice assortment of expensive
wearing apparel came to light. Silk ties,
scarves, socks, etc., were hanging from a
number of fish-hooks ingeniously sewed on
the inside of his bags. The Bench made it
six months.
* * * *
“Garry”: Talking about oatmeal to deaden
the clash of gears in ancient automobiles
and to silence a worn-out differential, that’s
a well-known and fairly polite dodge. The
dirtiest thing that ever was done to me was
so daring that it still makes me warm to
think about it. Two things the novice is
told to do when buying a second-hand car
are to wiggle the front wheels to find if
there’s any play in the steering, and to
crank up the engine by hand to see how the
compression is holding up. There are nine
and ninety ways of tightening up the worst-
worn steering worm and knuckles, but a
poor compression is hard to camouflage. At
least I thought so until I paid £4O for a
’bus that had a most beautiful compression
and no other ascertainable virtues. And
when I took down that venerable engine I
found under each cylinder-cap a nice, bright,
shiny bed-spring. The cylinders were
markedly oval in shape, and it took me all
my time to sell the equipage for £6O.


mmm
mmm
Only a rubber gasket—but it
makes an air-tight and acid-tight
seal when the cover is pressed on
your Willard Battery, A detail—
but one of the reasons why a
Willard is a better battery.
that's
Quality
pi
STORAGE
BATTERY
CLEVELAND, OHIO, U. S. A.


AS>S.
' —
u;
Cuticura Talcum
Is The Ideal Powder
Its purity, smoothness and fra-
grance, combined with antiseptic
and prophylactic properties which
help to overcome disagreeable
odors, make it an essential toilet
requisite.
Soap Is., Talcum ls.3d„ Ointment Is. and
2s. For sample Soap and Ointment ad-
dress: “R.Towns & Co., Sydney, N.S.W.”
§)&¥!' Cuticura Shaving Stick Is. 6d.
A GOOD GUN IS A GOOD FRIEND.
Earn the cost of a gun shooting rabbits for the
fur trade.
Agents for the following famous makes: —
HOLLOWAYS.—The Rolls Royce of Guns. Built
by prize experts, who know how to make a Gun that
kills at a longer distance than any other make.
That’s why Prize-winners use them.
From £l3/10/- to £lOO.
FOX’S D.B. WONDERFUL HAMMERLESS GUNS.
They hit harder and shoot further than any American
Gun ever built — £l3, with a lifetime guarantee.
BULLDOG D.B. HAMMERLESS.—A great field
(iun. Throws a remarkable pattern and kills cleanly,
beautifully balanced; fits the shoulder; perfect
workmanship, £B/10/-
Others D.B. from £4/10/- upwards. A week’s
fiee trial given. Obtainable everywhere, or write the
Agents for a catalog.
S. COHEN, SONS & CO. PTY., LTD.,
Hardware Merchants, 262 Queen Street, Melbourne.
Agents wanted where not represented.
mmm
mmm
When it goes through the wash or
Other channels, all garments
should be easily identified—so
MARK LINEN WITH
mmm
mmm
IkbUIXX
Unrivalled for Distinction and Service.
Any name woven in fast color.
“A few stitches and they’re on”
| |
Actual Size. Style No. 6
SOLD BY ALL BEST DRAPERS
Prices: IZdoz. 7/6, 6 doz. 5/-, 3 doz. 3/6
Write for Pattern Sheet to
.T. & J. GASH Pty. Ltd.,
85 Cubitt Street, Richmond, Melbourne
RUPTURE.
A FREE TRIAL.
yo “,, are * r . ou bled with the complaint, write us and
yoU our ca > al °Bue. fully describing our
PATENT AIR CUSHION APPLIANCE.
Ihu appliance does away with all cumbersome
springs, giving a feeling of ease and comfort from the
nrst day s use. It is the most scientific appliance yet
invented for this complaint. It will hold a rupture
firmly and comfortably under all conditions.
To prove what we state
WE OFFER TO SEND IT TO YOU
ON A FREE TRIAL.
If it is not satisfactory we do not expect you to keep
It, and the trial costs you nothing. It is suitable for
men, women and children, and the price is within
the reach of ail.
ILLUSTRATED CATALOGUE
posted free anywhere.
THE WINSLOW CO.
104 Queen Street, Melbourne, Vic.
GOLFERS—IT PAYS TO PLAY
THE SUPER
CHALLENGER
The Ball that makes good golf a certainty.
Sole Wholesale Distributors:
NORMAN L. BURNELL & CO. (N.S.W.), Ltd.
Sydne^Melbounie^AdelaideJßrisbaneJPerth^2
QN
BANK
THE QUEENSLAND NATIONAL BANK, LIMITED.
Incorporated under the Companies Act 1863. Established 1872.
Directors —A. C. Luya, Esq., Chairman; James Love, Esq.; W. H. Hart, Esq.;
M. J. Ryan, Esq. ; D. W. Macdonald, Esq.
General Manager— M. G. HAYMEN.
HEAD OFFICE BRISBANE
With offices at London, Melbourne, Sydney and 94 branches in Queensland and
Northern Rivers, N. S. Wales, also representation through the leading Banking
Institutions covering Australasia and the World, this Bank offers the fullest facili-
ties for the transaction of all general banking business.
IVORY-
TIPPED
m
m
■M,
►
* ■
m
mm
Wxv,
of course
How can De Reszkes be
sold at 10 for ninepence?
Thousands have been asking that question. For
years they have known De Reszkes as rather expen-
sive cigarettes of a very high grade. Are the new
De Reszke Virginias, they wonder, really and truly
De Reszkes, possessing the distinctive qualities im-
plied in that honoured name ?
That doubt is quickly dispelled. As soon as you
have tried your first packet, you know for certain
that De Reszkes Virginia*, at ten for ninepence,
fulfil the essential De Reszke requirement—which
is that every cigarette bearing the name must be the
very best in its class. And that is your guarantee
that the new cigarettes will always keep their present
high quality.
De Reszke
(popularly pronounced " DE RES-KEY ”)
Vi rginias
TWENTY FOR ONE AND SIX
In 10\ 20's, 50’s and 100’s
J. MILLHOFF & CO. LTD., 86, PICCADILLY, LONDON, W.l
Agents for N. S. Wales: DALGETY & COMPANY LTD.
The New Method of Shaving
NO BRUSH. NO SOAP.
\?s.;
Is it not strange that for hundreds of years mail has been
scrubbing his face with soaps full of soda, and has never reasoned
that under such treatment the skin must suffer? Nothing is more
ugly than a face that looks raw. Shaving soaps are always
the same old method of shaving. They are made with soda.
But now we have discovered the natural method, where no
brush and soaps .full of soda are needed. Shavex is a skin food.
One can shave in half the time, and you will get a smoother and
closer shave than you have ever had, and shaving will become a
pleasure instead of a torture. Your skin will look and feel like
satin, and your face under this treatment will look twice as young.
No after lotions are required when using
SHAVEX
Large tube, 1/9; larger tube (double quantity), 2/6.
MR. LESLIE HENSON. the famous
actor, writes: —-“I use ‘Shavex’ every time I
shave, and think it is the quickest, cleanest
and most delightful preparation ever invented
for shaving.”
At all chemists, or from sole Australian
Agents: SALMOND & SPRAGGON (AUS-
TRALIA), LTD., (Dept. 4), Eagle & Globe
Buildings, 379 Kent Street, Sydney.
Zeekol Manufacturing Go.. London, England.
FREE SAMPLE on receipt of 3d. stamp.
From the “Cruise of the Galatea,” an
account of the Duke of Edinburgh’s visit to
Australia in 1868 :
All classes have vied with each other to make
the Duke’s stay agreeable to him. And in all this
fervor of loyalty none were more earnest than the
inmates of the Yarra Bend Lunatic Asylum, who
erected at the entrance to their grounds an arch with
the inscription “Welcome, Alfred.”
E. O. Bisdee, who passed out the other day,
belonged to one of the Speck’s first families.
The Bisdees arrived in 1821, and E. O.
Bisdee’s father was a member of the first
Leg. Council of Van Diemen’s Land. The
Bisdees brought the first fallow deer and
also the first pack of hounds to Tasmania,
and E.O. was long the master of the Hutton
Park beagles.
Fred Johns, compiler of Australia’s “Who’s
Who?” does not let his hobby of collecting
facts about all the notables of the Common-
wealth interfere with his steady job as
leader of the Hansard staff in South Aus.
He has just completed his thirteenth session,
and claims not to have missed a single
sitting of Parliament from the start. He had
25 years on the Register literary staff before
that.
“Shed Hand”: Fate with a firestick in
his grip must have smiled at a radio mes-
sage air-waved to Colonel Pope, Commis-
sioner of Railways, returning after a health
voyage to S’Africa to his job in W.A. After
the greetings he was assured that during his
absence everything had moved clock-like.
Then the firebell rang and half the railway
stores at Midland Junction were ashes. The
department carries its own insurance risks,
and the damage is in the vicinity of
£20,000.
At 89 Tom Cawker has gone to a place
where he won’t feel at all at home if horses
are barred. He was one of the best-known
coaehdrivers in' Victoria in his day, plying
for years between Mount Gambier and Gee-
long and afterwards in the Hamilton and
Casterton districts. George Windsor was
twice driven by Cawker —as a middy from
the Bacchante, and later when he came
to open the Federal Parliament and see
what gauds were needed in these parts.
“A.8.C.”: Girls have managed to work
themselves into most of the bank jobs pre-
viously reserved for men; but I have come
across only one lady teller. And that was
a case of sheer necessity. In a Northern
N.S.W. town during the dengue epidemic
the whole staff of one of the banks, except-
ing the lady ledger-keeper, went down to the
scourge, and, acting under orders issued from
the manager’s bedroom, the lady opened the
office and carried on as best she could. The
counter occupied most of her time, and she
had nearly two days of it before assistance
from head office arrived.
A testimonial to the efficacy of the Spah-
linger consumption cure was given in a
recent N.S.W. divorce case. The petitioner
was Harold Walter Lowe, an Australian
who was sent to Switzerland to test the
treatment. His wife, in spite of the certi-
ficate of Spahlinger that a cure had been
effected, declined to live with him on his
return, the fear of having children with a
T.B. taint being the apparent reason. The
Court decided that the certificate would have
to be accepted, and granted a restitution
decree; but of course that is only a preli-
minary to a divorce if the respondent doesn’t
agree with the Judge.
Scotch College, Melbourne, waxing reminis-
cent in age, has embalmed its memories in a
sumptuous red-covqred volume. To old boys
it will recall happy days in the early and
very modest school-home. Here is a picture
of two familiar personalities as they were in
February, 1880:
The senior boys occupied the back row.
About the centre stood a short boy with fair brist-
ling hair, destined to be the dux for that year,
whose name rang round the world 36 years after-
wards, when, with the cry “Come on, Australia!”
he led the charge of the Australians at Krithia. His
name was James Whiteside McCay. Another was
John Monash, destined to be dux in the following
year and to lead the Australians in the push that
broke the Hindenburg line.
At least one jockey has something solid to
show for his racing victories. Perouse-road,
Randwick, is a collection of monuments to
the achievements of W. H. McLachlan. The
bungalows in the street bear the names of
Britain —McLachlan won the Summer Cup
on a horse of that name, Maranui (Caulfield
Cup winner), Chere Ami (Doncaster), Soult-
line (Newmarket), Celerity (Oakleigh
Plate), Kerlie (Williamstown Cup), Medag-
lia( Adelaide Cup) and Vavasour (Sydney
Cup. Even before he ventured abroad
McLachlan was reckoned to have investments
in house property about Sydney which
brought him £5OOO per annum. His income
probably is much higher now.
“Narara” : For many years past an Upper
Hawkesbury River (N.S.W.) man has suc-
cessfully shown that decent cricket-bats can
be made from Australian-grown willow. This
man never learnt the art of bat-making, but
was an enthusiastic cricketer. He first
started making block-handled bats for the
local school kiddies; finding that they
were a success, he next made a couple with
spring handles and gave them to one of the
local clubs. They were first used as prac-
tice bats, but the men liked them so much
that he soon had orders for several more,
and as he charged only half the price of the
imported he has never lost his customers.
I learnt the game on the river with his bats,
and later when playing on the South Coast
and in the Bathurst and Orange competi-
tions I invariably used them.
“Strict Veg.”: Medical specialism goes to
great lengths these days. There are Collins-
street magnificoes who only deign to operate
on three features of the human face, and
there are others who do nothing else but
make little scratches on your arm and infect
them with extracts of capeweed, dahlia
roses, horse dander, etc., in order that other
specialists may Tinow what it is that makes
you sneeze when the wind is from the north
Then there is the radiologist who photo-
graphs your teeth. If you want your nose
rayed, you must go next door. As for the
family doctor, he has become merely a
stretcher-bearer for the great ones. The
other day my daughter fell off a horse and
cracked her collar-bone, the commonest frac-
ture childish bone is heir to. The local
medico told me to take her to a famous
surgeon in the city. There was a day when
mother would have been the bone-setter.


Shipping.
Suva, Pago Pago,
Honolulu,
San Francisco,
New York, London
Sailings Every Three Weeks.
Sonoma—Sierra— V entura
The Oceanic Steamship Company,
Matson Navigation Company, Managing Agents.
1*7831. i‘j Bridge Street, Sydney.
BRISBANE, via BYRON BAY
Through Tickets to Brisbane issued.
S.S. ORARA —Every Saturday evening; passengers
due Brisbane Monday afternoon.
S.S. WOLLONGBAR —Every Tuesday evening;
passengers due Brisbane Thursday afternoon.
Both vessels fitted with Wireless Receiving Sets.
BRISBANE:
FARES.—
Steamer and Motor throughout, Single, £3/15/-
Steamer and Motor throughout, Return, £7
Steamer and First-class Rail, Single, £3/10/-
Steamer and Second-class Rail, Single, £3/3/o
NORTH COAST S. N. CO., LTD.,
Passengers’ Booking Office:
TOURIST BUREAU, CHALLIS HOUSE,
MARTIN PLACE, SYDNEY.
Brisbane Booking Agents: Burns, Philp and Co., Ltd.
HAWAI I
LOVELY HOLIDAY LAND.
All expenses of round-trip to this Island
Paradise—land of melody—£loo to £l5O in
8 weeks or less, including 3-4 weeks in
Hawaii and a day at Suva or Pago Pago.
Balmy weather, tropical fruits and flowers,
golf, tramping, outrigger canoeing, surfboard
riding, excellent motor roads. Inter-island
cruises ; volcanic marvels. Quaint tea gardens ;
good hotels with meals, 12/- to £3 per day.
Ask steamship or travel agencies or write
Hawaii Tourist Bureau, Dept. 26, Box 241 D,
G.P.0., Sydney, N.S.W., for beautifully-colored
booklet, enclosing this advertisement.
EN ROUTE TO AMERICA OR EUROPE
STOP-OVER PRIVILEGE FREE.
HAWAII
Banking, Public Companies, etc.
1 he Australian Bank of Commerce Limited
Authorised Capital .. .. .. £5,000,000
Capital Paid Up and Reserves .. .. £2,685,303
Aggregate Assets at 30th June, 1926 ..£16,789.590
Directors: Sir Mark Sheldon, K.8.E., Chairman;
Frank N. Yarwood ; Duncan Carson ; H. R.
Lysaght, 0.8. E.; George J. Sly, LL.D. ; Lieut.-
Col. T. L. F. Rutledge.
General Manager: C. M. C. Shannon.
Clriel Inspector for N.S.W.: XV. G. Hull.
HEAD OFFICE, SYDNEY (Corner George and King
Streets).
Branches and Receiving Offices at 151 places in
New South Wales.
BRISBANE (264 Queen Street).
Chief Inspector for Queensland: L. Aveyard.
Manager: G. H. Howell.
Branches and Receiving Offices at 27 places in
Queensland.
MELBOURNE (325 Collins Street).
Manager: M. B. Finney.
ADELAIDE (35 Rundle Street).
Manager: R. T. Moodie.
PERTH, W.A. (73 St. George’s Terrace).
Manager: A. C. Dibdin.
LONDON (37 Tbreadneedle Street, E.C.2).
Manager: A. F. Jenkins.
London Directors :
A. Dodds Fairrairn, Alfred Shepherd.
Agents throughout Australia. Tasmania and New
Zealand, and at all the Chief Cities of the World.
Every description of Banking Business Transacted.
Bank of New Zealand.
SYDNEY BRANCH:
Corner GEORGE and WYNYARD
STREETS.
Guaranteed Stock.. .. .. £s2w,ygB
Preference Shares .. .. .. 1,875^000
Ordinary Shares 3,750*000
Reserve Fund and Undivided Profits 3,390,378
GRANTS DRAFTS SJrSfc
Great Britain and Ireland, and other places.
RECEIVES DEPOSITS
transacts all other usual Banking business.
The Bank of Adelaide
(Incorporated 1865.)
Perth Office: St. George’s Terrace.
Also, Fremantle, W.A.
Melbourne Office: 267 Collins Street.
Sydney Office: 279 George Street.
Authorised Capital .. £2,000,000
Subscribed Capital .. 875,000
Paid Up Capital £875,000
Reserve Fund 800 000
Reserve liability of shareholders
£1,675,000
876,000
£2,550,000
Head Office: ADELAIDE, SOUTH AUSTRALIA.
Also 114 Branches and Agencies in South Australia
London Office: 11 LEADENHALL STREET, EC
Agencies in all Australian States and throughout
the world.
Drafts and Letters of Credit issued on London
America and elsewhere. Bills from abroad collected
and proceeds remitted. All usual banking business
transacted.
Australian Mutual
Established
1849.
87 H pittSt.,Sydney
PfOVldSlUSociety
The Largest and Most Successful
Mutual Life Office in the British Empire,
Distributes a Cash Bonus Every Year.
Amount Distributed for single year 1925 £2,428,000
Yielding Reversionary Additions to
Policies of over £4,150,000
Accumulated Funds £60,000,000
Annual Income nearly £9,000,000
The Society transacts Every Class of Ordinary
and Industrial Assurance Business.
H. W. APPERLY, F.S.S., General Manager.
Shipping, etc.
CANADA, UNITED STATES,
UNITED KINGDOM
FORTNIGHTLY SAILINGS FROM SYDNEY.
CANADIAN-AUSTRALASIAN ROYAL MAIL LINE
via Auckland, Suva (Fiji), Honolulu, Victoria and Vancouver.
UNION ROYAL MAIL LINE
via Wellington, Rarotonga, Tahiti and San Francisco.
MARAMA, JAN. 14, connects with Tahiti at Auckland for Vancouver.
MAUNGANUI. 11,340 tons disp. JAN. 27, for San Francisco.
NIAGARA .... 18,600 ~ ~ FEB. 10, for Vancouver.
MAKURA .. • 13,000 ~ ~ FER. 24, for San Francisco.
Past and splen-
didly equipped
steamers using
oil fuel.
Spacious Decks,
Unrivalled
Cuisine.
mmm
The Scenic
lioutes to the
United King-
dom, via South
Sea Islands,
Canada, United
States.
TICKETS TO THE UNITED KINGDOM INTERCHANGEABLE FOB RETURN
BY OTHER LINES.
SPECIAL HONOLULU EXCURSION F ARES.
UNION STEAM SHIP CO.
/Union House, 247 George Street, Sydney.
\ William Street, Melbourne.
MACDONALD, HAMILTON & CO., Brisbane, Adelaide and Perth.
SOUTH SEA TOURS
Attractive Island Trips, occupying about 4$ Weeks.
SIX-WEEKLY SAILINGS FROM SYDNEY TO
w Britain * S.S. ‘‘MONTORO’’ (5000 tons).
" v " 111 11*1111 ■ Sails February 15 and March 29.
Solomon Islands:
S.S. "MATARAM" (3500 tons),
Sails February 2 and March 16.
A Delightful Holiday in Island Wonderlands.
For Particulars apply—
BURNS, PHILP & CO., LTD.,
Sydney, Melbourne, Adelaide and Brisbane.
9
mmm
mm
mmm
mmm
BURNS, PHILP & CO., LTD.,
Passenger Booking Agents for All Steamship Lines
ENGLAND
EUROPE
AMERICA
CANADA
AFRICA
INDIA
JAPAN
CHINA
JAVA, etc.
At regular passage rates. No extra charge.
Attractive tour to
NOUMEA, JAVA, HONOLULU, COLOMBO, etc.
VISIT JAVA (The wonderland of the East).
Regular monthly sailings of the s.s. “Marella” and
m.s. “Malabar” to Java and Singapore via Queensland
ports, Thursday Island, Darwin, etc. Smooth water trip,
Deck Cabins, interesting ports of call.
APPLY
BURNS, PHILP & COMPANY, LIMITED,
WORLD TOUR and TRAVKL DEPARTMENT,
7 BRIDGE STREET, SYDNEY.
BAN 11
OF NiLW SOUTH WALES.
Established 1817.
Paid-up Capital
Reserve Fund
Reserve Inability.
mmm
£6,000,000
4,750,000
6,000,000
£16,750,000
Directors:
Thomas Buekland,@.Esq., President.
The Hon Reginald J. Black, M.L.C.
Charles Binnie, Esq.
James Burns, Esq.
Robert L. Faithfull, Esq., M.D.
Robert W. Gillespie, Esq.
Franc B. S. Falkiner, Esq.
Auditors: W. H. Palmer, Esq.; S. E. Laidley, Esq. General Manager: OSCAR LINES.
Head Office —George Street, Sydney. London Office—29 Threadneedle Street, E.C. 2.
431 Branches and Agencies in the Australian States, New Zealand, Fiji, Papua, Mandated
Territory of New Guinea and Losndon. Agents and Correspondents throughout the world.
Cable remittances made to, and drafts drawn on Foreign places DIRECT. Foreign Bills
negotiated and collected, Letters of Credit Issued, negotiable throughout the world.
The Commercial Banking Company
of Sydney Limited
ESTABLISHED 1834.
CAPITAL PAID UP £3,500,000 0 0
RESERVE FUND 3,000,000 0 0
RESERVE CAPITAL 3,500,000 0 0
£10,000,000 0 0
Directors .*
GEORGE J. COHEN,‘-Chairman; Hon. SIR THOMAS HUGHES, M.L.C., Deputy
Chairman: Hon. .TAMES ASHTON, M.L.C.; Major-General the Hon. J. W.
MACARTHUR ONSLOW, V.D., M.L.C.; Sir WILLIAM VICARS, K. 8., C.B.E.
General Manager: J. R. DRYIIURST.
HEAD OFFICE: Sydney, 343 George Street.
London Office.—lB Birchin Lane, Lombard Street, E.C.3.
Branches throughout New South Wales and Queensland Agencies
throughout Australia and New Zealand, and all other parts of the World
All Classes of General Banking and Exchange Business Transacted.
SAFE DEPOSIT VAULTS.—lnspection invited. Particulars of
Safe Rentals on application.
Shipping, etc,
Inter-State Steamship
Sailings,
(Passenger Sailings—Circumstances permitting.)
FOR MELBOURNE, ADELAIDE and FREMANTLE
(Transhipping at Melbourne tor Geelong and other
Victorian ports; at Adelaide for S.A. Gulf ports;
and at Fremantle for Perth, Bunbury, Geraldton
and North-West Ports).
*Brisbane, Townsville and Cairns.
Huddart ParkerLlM
Magnificent
Fast Passenger
Steamships
STEAMERS TO NEW ZEALAND—ReguIar sailings
from Sydney to New Zealand ports and vice versa.
Particulars to be obtained on application.
STEAMERS TO TASMANIA—From Sydney to Hobart
and vice versa as per daily papers. Between Mel-
bourne and Launceston as per daily papers.
For full particulars apply HUDDAIIT PARKER LIMITED,
Collins Street, Melbourne; Bridge Street, Sydney.
Interstate Telegraphic address:
“NALDHAM.”
Cable address:
“NALDHAM.”
Macdonald, Hamilton 8 Co.
Collins Street, Melbourne,
Shipping Agents, Merchants, Colliery
Proprietors, Tug ami Lighter Owners,
MANAGING AGENTS IOR
Australasian United Steam Navigation Co., Ltd.
Fitzroy Estates, Ltd.
lilackheath Collieries, Ltd., and Caledonian
Collieries, Ltd.
Eastern & Australian Steamship Co., Ltd.
AGENTS FOR
British-India S. N. Co., Ltd. P. & O. S. N. Co.
Queensland line of Steamers. Scottish Shire Line
(Turnbull, Martin & Co.). New Zealand Shipping Co.,
Ltd. Canadian-Australasian Royal Mail Line, San
Francisco Service (Union S.S. Co.), Union S.S. Co.
of New Zealand, Ltd. Hain Line. Huddart Parker,
Ltd. London Assurance Corporation (Marine). Mel-
bourne Agents for Messageries Maritimes Co. Queens-
land Agents for Sea Insurance Co., Ltd.
BRANCHES at Perth, Fremantle, Adelaide, Port
Adelaide, Sydney, Suva (Fiji), Brisbane, Mary-
borough, Bundaberg and Bowen.
ALL AUSTRALIANS visiting London
cY should read the British Australian
and New Zealander, 6d. weekly—an illus-
trated paper containing mail and cable news
from Australia and news of Australians in
Europe and at home. Australians are cordi-
ally invited to visit the British Australian
and New Zealander Reading-room at the
Offices, 414-17 Australia House, Strand,
London, WC.2, where they can see the home
papers, meet their friends, use the telephone
and obtain information without charge.
Copies of the paper and general information
can be obtained at the Australian Advertis-
ing Agency. Ltd.. 350 George Street, Sydney:
or 434 Collins Street. Melbourne.
For your
Summer Vacation
HOTEL
KOSCIUSKO
(Altitude 5000 ft.)
Golf, Tennis and Croquet.
Snow Sports, Ski-ing and
Tobogganing on the
higher ranges.
Motoring on excellent roads.
Special arrangements for parties.
Bookings and further particulars
at
N.S.W. Government
TOURIST BUREAU
Challis House, 8 Martin Place,
Sydney.


CATALOGUE ’ B"
PLUMBERS’
AND ENGINEERS •
SUPPLIES
John Danks & Son
Pry. jltd.
. MEIIIOI RNI, aill l SVDNEY
o ' I WORKS FOUNDED I«S9
mmm
DASPYL PLUMBERS’
SUPPLIES
Daspyl Plumbers’ Brass Work is extensively used throughout
the Commonwealth, and every Plumber should have our
Catalogue. It is comprehensive and deals with all kinds of
Plumbers Brass Work and Lead Goods, Water and Gas Taps
and Valves, etc., and all Plumbers’ Supplies.
m
£ng ineers'\Brasswork
Hrust and Iran (badt
ana SpnicJittes fitr STEAM.
GAS, WA TER. AlB. and Oft,
John Danks & Son
FftOPkUITARY UWJTKD
m-m Bcurh Si., Melbonn, U<-S3O Pm Si., Syd*,n
DASPYL ENGINEERS
BRASSWORR
FOR STEAM, WATER, AIR AND OIL.
Our Engineers’ Brass Work Catalogue Deals with
Valves, Taps, Injectors, Lubricators, Lubricants, Tubes and
Fittings, Metals and Packings, Belting, Shafting and all
Transmission Goods.
It is Post Free on Request.
UNI
Universal
Grinding
Wheels.
These splendid wheels,
made in England, are
used extensively in the
workshops of the Vic-
torian Railways, and by
most of the large Engi-
neering Firms throughout
Australia.
We have a good range in
Stock and shall be pleased
to quote for large or
small quantities.
‘fffi
-oi
Plumbers
and
Engineers’
TOOLS
Plumbers and Engineers
will find all the tools they
need in our Tool Depart-
ment—first-quality tools
from the best British and
American makers. A
splendid range to choose
from. Prices are reason-
able, and it will repay the
craftsman to get in touch
with this busy department
when needing tools.
JOHN DANKS &SON PTY. LTD.
K
S9I-403 BOURKE ST. MELBOURNE
324-330 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
To-morrow Morning
mmm
mmmm
mmmm
mmm
—TRY THIS NEW
SHAVING METHOD,
See how it softens your
beard at the base, where
the razor does its work.
Properly softened at the base,
any beard cuts easily. The
problem has been to get an
abundant supply of water deep
down to the bottom of every
hair. For v/ater, not shaving
cream, is the real softener of
your beard.
To meet this need for a scientific
beard softener, Colgate’s Rapid-
Shave Cream was developed. It
is really shaving cream in con,
centrated form super water
absorbent —different in action
and result from anything you
have ever known before.
In this lather the bubbles are
smaller. This makes possible
two important and distinct ad-
vantages: (1) Small bubbles hold
more water and much less air;
they give more points of moisture
contact. (2) They permit greater
penetration into the base of the
beard.
So that this moisture may soak
right into the beard, Colgate’s
first emulsifies and removes the
oil film that covers every hair.
Then quickly thousands of cling-
ing, moisture - laden bubbles
penetrate deep down to the base
of the beard—bring and hold an
abundant supply of water in
direct contact with the bottom
of every hair.
Thus the entire beard becomes
wringing wet —moist and pliable
—softened down to the base,
where the razor does its work*
&
C*
or*
HP
if
Once you try Colgate*s
you’ll never be satisfied
with any other shaving
method.
Softens the Beard at the Base
‘WARRICJAL 5
Silk and Wool Undertuear
The ideal Summer undertuear for men
cool, soft, comfortable and yet protective
y T
V" as \
IT tuould be hard to imagine
any undergarments more de-
lightful for men’s Summer
wear than these high quality
productions which bear Peapes’
own “Warrigal” trademark as
a guarantee of excellence.
They are tuoven in Australia of
the purest Australian u>ool,
mixed tuith soft, fine silh to
increase their coolness and
smoothness. They are durable
and unshrinkable.
“ Warrigal ” Summer-tueight Cream
Silk and Wool Undershirts, J-sleeves.
36in. 38in. 40in. 42in. 44in.
18/6 19/6 20/6 21/6 22/6
“ Warrigal ** Summer-weight Cream
Silk and Wool Underpants, full length.
34in. 36in. 38in. 40in. 42in. 44in.
18/6 19/6 20/6 21/6 22/6 23/6
“ Warrigal ** Summer-weight Cream Silh and Wool Trunk
Drawers. 34in. 36in. 38in. 40in. 42in. 44in.
18/- 19/- 20/- 21/- 22/- 23/-
PEAPES PAY POSTAGE
Please state chest and waist measurements
PEAPES & CO. LTD.
Men’s and Boys* Outfitters
GEORGE STREET (opposite Hun'er Street), SYDNEY
Calixto Lopez Cigars at Peapes’. ' Half a Calixto," 24/6 per box of 25.
Manufactured in Havana from selected Havana Leaf.


A Famous Actor Mr.
Maurice Moscovitch—Praises
a Famous Shaving Soap—
CM
L*
mmm
01
mo
ip
a
mtsm
(A
\
'>v
O
Men! Here’s a Shaving Soap
that Satisfies —
REXONA
New Triangular Stick
Here is a new idea in Shaving Soap —another Rexona triumph
—one this time which will be appreciated by men wherever
beards grow.
Rexona Shaving Soap contains the same oils and essences
which have made Rexona famous the world over, and is
made on the Rexona formula and thus makes a Shaving
Stick which is a soap and a lotion combined. It makes
for comfort and hygiene in shaving, and tempers the skin
against wind and bad weather.
Rexona Shaving Soap, the new Triangular Stick, is sold in
pure aluminium containers at 1/6.
Rexona Shaving Stick —
The New Triangular Stick.
Rexona,
the New
Triangular
Stick
Mr. Maurice Mosco-
vitch, wlw appeared
ivith such marked suc-
cess at the Criterion
Theatre, Sydney ,
writes; “Wherever I go
I always take a supply
of Rexona Shaving Soap
with me. I wouldn’t
be without it for
worlds. It is par
excellence for the skin.”
y-s"
c^>
wv>
:r s'.
■ ■
i?
*
1/6
Chocolates
‘7 do like my Daddy—see
what he's brought me home /”
The Famous Red Box of Chocolates.
Mailed to you the day they are made.
Prices:
3/-, 5/6, 6/-, 10/-, 12/6,
20/- and 30/-
Post free to any address in Australia.
162-186 Pitt
Street,
and Cr. George
& King Streets,
Sydney.
Send for Catalogue illustratea
with reproductions of our Con-
fectionery in colors.
.. m
mm
■
m
mwm
L
The Poet.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
A PEDLAR came by singing
One golden afternoon.
All tattered were liis garments
And down-at-heel his shoon ;
But his blue eyes were brighter
Than spring’s first maiden moon.
I longed to follow after
To where hills far and high
All tnrough a scented summer
Lay up against the sky.
“I’d fain be walking with you,
O pedlar-man !” cried I.
Then queerly smiled the pedlar,
And spread liis kerchief’s square
Upon the dusty roadside
And showed his every ware —
A silver verse and golden
Lay scintillating there!
Words with the sheen of rainbows,
And phrases smooth as jet—
Such color and such glamor
My eyes with tears were wet;
For here was such lorn beauty
As one could not forget!
“I love this line,” he told me,
“And this one” —tenderly—
“And here a perfect stanza
Shows wondrous artistry;
But nowadays there’s simply
No call for Poesy!
“But here and there a dreamer
Will buy himself a song,
And sing it o’er when summer
Brings pleasant nights and long,
And Lady Moon’s white fingers
Dark branches move among.
“Or one will call a welcome
And hasten out to meet
Me coming to his doorway,
And say that it is sweet
To hear my wild-bird lilting
In some hot, narrow street.”
Then gathered he his treasures
Into his pack again,
And his long, purple shadow
That darkened my small pane
Athwart the unpaved roadway
Fell slantwise once again.
And though I becked and called him,
Unnoticed in the throng,
He sang his foolish verses,
Striding his way along.
A crazy, sweet-voiced pedlar
Hawking his idle song!
QUEENSLAND.
E. M. ENGLAND.
The Profitable Pats.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Water-rat ceased rowing and rested
1 on his oars in order to give liis highly-
interested attention to the activities of
the sole occupant of a dinghy crossing the
bay. Dickie, his best beloved and devoted
slave, emerged from her dolce far nientc
in the stern sheets and followed the direction
of his gaze. Though her eyes held eager
inquiry she remained silent.
In that quiet inlet the click-clock of the
dinghy’s rowlocks, and the liquid plink of the
drips from the Rat’s oar-blades, spreading
a chain of circles on the glazed water, were
the only sounds the afternoon held. The man
in the dinghy was making for a small motor-
yacht which lay at her moorings. The
covers of duck, which swathed the craft for
the greater part of her length, indicated that
the yacht had not yet emerged from her
winter hibernation. The Rat resumed his
rowing. Taking an apparently random
course, he converged on the yacht simul-
taneously with the dinghy. “Good day, Mr.
Weston,” the Rat opened. “Giving the
packet a look over?”
“Yes, yes,” the yachtsman assented affably,
“just having a look round.”
Mr. Weston had married a wealthy widow
of masculine manner and appearance. Small,
nervous and near-sighted, he was of the
type which sells itself into feminine bond-
age to escape the responsibilities of life,
the type that, under compulsion, takes the
Pekinese for a walk during the afternoons.
Always painfully anxious to placate every-
one with whom he came in contact, he was
polite, even to those he disliked.
Gaining the yacht’s deck, he commenced
an unequal struggle with an obstinate cover-
lashing in order to gain access to the cabin
companion.
The Rat, seeing his difficulty, placed his
skiff alongside and projected himself across
the deck to the side of the yaclit-owner.
“Give us a look at it,” he volunteered
amiably, taking charge of the situation.
“You’ll on’y break yer finger-nails.”
“Thanks, thanks very much. Those knots
do become hard with the weather.”
His soft hands, unequal to the task of
unbending the cover, Weston was ready
enough to hand it over to the affable
larrikin, whom he now recognised as one
who occasionally worked and often loafed
round this and adjoining bays.
“Blime!” the Rat ejaculated, as the back-
thrown cover revealed the hasp of the com-
panion-lock torn from its place by means of
a chisel or screwdriver backed by a strong
ha “Blime,” he repeated. “Somebody’s gone
an’ ratted yer.”
“Somebody’s what?
“Ratted the cabin—broke it open.”
“Are you sure? By Jove, the—they’ve
broken it open !”
“Too right!”
“I suppose we had better investigate.”
Mr. Weston, opening the slide of the
yacht's cabin, in a manner suggestive of
Pandora opening her. little box of tricks,
was about to descend into the comparative
"loom when he paused like a timid ox,
whose nostrils are assailed by the first panic-
stirring whiff of the abattoirs. Backing on
to the deck, he bent his head forward and
peered into the cabin, dimmed by the pro-
tective coverings. As his myopic eyes be-
came accustomed to the light, he exhaled a
horrified gasp. The Rat, peering over his
shoulder, provided a robust echo. “Heavens
alive!” the yacht-owner said, “there are men
there —Chinamen!” ,
“Pats all right; three—no, four ot em !
the Rat concurred. “Yes, they re 1 ats tor
a bird.” .. , „
Weston turned to his companion as it be
would seek aid to dispel these hallucina-
tions. Four silent, stolid Chinese on Ins
motor-cruiser at her lawful moorings m
sight of his own —or his wife’s own—home
on the foreshores of this quiet bay m fcyd-
nev Harbor? Impossible!
The Rat was eyeing him queerly.
“Sure you don’t know ’ow they come to
be on your yacht?” the self-invited guest
asked, in a voice dripping incredulity.
“I? Why, whatever?”
“Oh, nothin’. Sure / don’t want to
intrude in yer affairs. I on'y come aboard
because I seen yer in trouble with tliein
lashin’s. I’ve ’eard it said there was goon
money in smuggling yeller bellies inter
Aussie, but I never expected to find the cabin
of your yacht lookin’ like a joss-house at
the Pat’s' Noo Year.”
“What do you mean? AYhat are you in-
sinuating? I’m going ashore to ring the
police; that’s what I am going to do.
Throwing out this challenge to the Rat and
the world at large, Weston made another
survey of the cabin to assure himself that
his uninvited guests from far Cathay were
not some figment of an indigestion-warped
mind “Yes, I’ll ring the police at once. _
“Righto, please yerself. I s’pose you re
your own boss—more or less,” the Rat
agreed, “but just a second —I got an idea
just struck me.”
The puzzled expression he had worn from
the first astounding discovery was, obviously,
dissipating before some new light which was
dawning in his mind. ,
“That reminds me of something I eard
recent. I never took much notice at the
time.” . , , ...
Weston’s expression indicated that nothing,
the Rat might say could be too grotesque to
chime with the present bizarre situation.
“Something you heard?” he urged.
“Yes, workin’ round the ship- an yacht-
yards the way I do, I ’ear most of the back-
wash and gossip, like.”
“Yes, yes?”
“Tell me, Mr. Weston, ’ave you any
special enemies?”
“Enemies? Good Heavens! None that 1
can think —hardly enemies—several people I
dislike and who, perhaps, disapprove of me,
but hardly” .
“I overheard your name mentioned m the
private bar of the Admiral, in Blue-street.
“My name? Why, who could possibly?”
The Rat raised an arrested hand. The
gesture indicated, clearly, that one had one s
et hics- TTT ,
“I can’t diverge no names, Mr. Weston,
he declared piously; “but you've got two
enemies what’d like to see you come a
gutser.”
“Like to see me” ; „
“Like to see you donged—come to arm.
“/ have enemies? Good Heavens!”
“Too right you ’ave,” the Rat asserted in
a voice loaded with growing conviction.
“When a couple of blokes with a snout on
yer put their ’cads together with a officer
in the water police what’s the brother-in-
law of one of ’em, and very anxious to git
permotion, well”— —-
“Good Heavens alive, man! You have seen
for yourself that the cabin has been forcibly
ent6r6d.”
“Yes, it looks better to ’ave it broke into.
They’d reckon it was a shrewdie move on
your part —a beak would. Still,” the Rat
added magnanimously, “personally, mind
you, I’m inclined to think you ain’t guilty—
’earin that bar-room conversation and
imowin’ what I know. Course the beak’ll
look at it different. Still I’m beginnin’
to put two an’ two together, to see their
lurk. • They’ve kidded some of the Pong
crew that they can smuggle ’em into Aussie.
They collects as much oscar as they can from
the yeller smells ; the water-police bird dis-
covers ’em on your boat, gits ’is case gom
an’ ends up with permotion; then, most im-
portant of all, they git you where they want
yer, when you’re pinched for plantin’ pro-
’ibited immigrants on yer yacht with intent
to smuggle same into the Orstralian Com-
monwealth. It’s clever. There’s brains be-
’ind it.”
Weston’s voice was palpably panicky
when he spoke. “I’ll forestall them by
porting the matter to the police at once!”
The Rat fell into an attitude portraying
deep thought. “It’s nothing to me, Mister;
but it seems to me you’re too late ; That
water-police bloke ’as dropped the ’int that
’e’s followin’ a Pong smuggler; an’ if you
prat in now they’ll reckon you got windy,
and tried to scale the blame by sayin’ some
body else planted the Pats on yer boat.”
Weston, gripped by a sudden resolve,
stepped to the companionway and addressed
the stolid inmates of the cabin.
“Who bringee you here?” he demanded
in a voice which would have been peremptory
bad it not been marred by a slight tremolo.
The uncomprehending Chinese, taking the
question for an order to emerge, advanced
to the companion. Weston, jabbering inco-
herencies which he fondly imagined to be
pidgin English, waved them frantically back.
“What am I to do?” he wailed, turning
to the Rat in a frenzy of apprehension.
“Keep yer voice down, for a start. Every-
body in the bay’ll ’ear yer on a quiet after-
noon like this.”
Mr. Weston, with mental pictures of police
courts and the wrath of his wife rioting
through his brain, had reached the stage
whereat he was ready to appeal to anyone
for advice. Even if his innocence were
proved there would remain the stigma of the
court on his name.
“What do you suggest?” he begged of the
it’s none of my business. I could
whip ’em off after dark, perhaps; but it’s
risky. I might be met by a cop on the
beach ; and four yeller-bellies with not a
single word of English in their kick takes
a lot of explainin’ to a John. Still —as a
favor if you was to make it worth a man’s
while’ I might clear ’em out. Once they’re
clear of your boat you’re clear of blame.”
The financial side of the arrangement was
quickly settled to the satisfaction of the Rat.
The sum exacted by him as a reward for
scavenging the yacht of her Oriental infesta-
tion staggered Mr. Weston, who, to save
(Continued on next page.)


*'€very picture
M
&
'
Kidney Troubles Age You!
Use Doan’s Pills to Prevent Them.
AT MIDDLE AGE and after, do not be sur-
** prised if you experience backache, dizziness
and bladder irregularities. Regard them as early
signs of kidney strain —as calls for help that is long
overdue. Unceasingly, all your life, your kidneys
have been filtering the poisons from your blood
—protecting you from rheumatism, dropsy, stone
formation, sciatica, gravel and lumbago. Avoid
these threatened developments, NOW, by
strengthening the kidneys with Doan’s Backache
Kidney Pills.
SYDNEY TESTIMONY.
Mr. A. B. Cowell, who lives at the corner of Park Road
and Hardy Street, Mascot, Sydney, says:—“Some months ago I
was suddenly seized with a terrible pain across my back, just
above the kidneys. It did not go away, as I thought at first it
would, but, on the contrary, it got worse, and I was soon so bad
that I was bent almost double. I was completely crippled and
even at night I got very little rest from the constant pain. I
could not turn over without suffering acutely, in fact, no
position was comfortable for long. My secretions were affected,
being thick and cloudy, with a red sediment. I tried different
remedies, but they gave me no relief whatever. One day a
friend suggested I should take Doan’s Backache Kidney Pills,
and it proved to be good advice, too, for three bottles cured me
completely. I feel splendid now, and my recovery is due solely
to Doan’s Backache Kidney Pills.”
Pour years later Mrs. Cowell says:—“My son is still well,
Doan’s Backache Kidney Pills having completely banished all
signs of kidney trouble.”
DOAN’S BACKACHE KIDNEY PIELS are sold by all chemists and stores
at 2/9 per bottle, or from Foster-McClellan Co.,
15 Hamilton Street, Sydney.
D OAN’S
Backache Kidney Pills.
FOR PILES, ECZEMA AND ANY
IRRITATION OF THE SKIN USE
DOAN’S OINTMENT.
SYDNEY PEOPLE TESTIFY.
A WOMAN’S WORD.
Mrs. W. Membrey, Como, 79 Sim-
mons Street, Enmore, says :—“For
three years I was a martyr to Piles,
and I don’t think any ailment causes
more suffering and loss of sle/y>. I
used Pile remedies, and was treated
by a doctor, but nothing gave me any
relief. After so many failures I
thought there was no cure for this dis-
tressing complaint, but I was mis-
taken. as a treatment with Doan’s
Ointment proved. A short course of
this wonderful preparation cured me,
and I advise sufferers to give it a
trial.”
Eleven years later Mrs. Membrey
says :—“Doan’s Ointment cured me of
Piles over eleven years ago, and I
have been free of the complaint ever
since.”
A MAN’S WORD.
Mr. A. H. Francis, 192 Union Street,
Erskineville, Sydney, says :—“I used
Doan’s Ointment for Itching and Pro-
truding Piles, and I am pleased to tell
you it completely cured me. Previously
I had tried all kinds of Ointments, but
they gave me little or no relief. I was
suffering terribly when I first applied
Doan’s Ointment, and had little hope
of it doing me any good, but its sooth-
ing and healing effect was noticeable
almost at once, and by the time I had
used one pot I was completely cured,
all signs of Piles having disappeared
entirely. I am a great believer in
Doan’s Ointment, and consider it the
best Pile remedy known.”
Twelve months later, Mr. Francis
says:—“l have not been troubled with
Piles since Doan’s Ointment cured me.”
SOLD BY ALL CHEMISTS AND STORES AT 2/9 PER TIN.
complications with the wife, would have to
meet the demand from his limited allowance.
Better that than explanations.
Dickie, from her seat in the skiff, had been
an interested spectator of the incident on the
yacht. Though often an active participant
in her lover’s enterprises, she was content to
take her orders without question, not know-
ing, as a rule, till the adventure was con-
cluded the full details of the plot she had
assisted to carry through.
Accompanying Spudge, as darkness
wrapped itself about the bay, she assisted
in the transfer of the amber-hued cargo
to the beach. Leaving Dickie in charge of
the skiff, the Rat, accompanied by his docile
charges, disappeared into the purple shadows
of the foreshores. In less than five minutes
he returned alone.
“Gee! Spudge, boy. What ’ave yer done
with the yeller perils?” Dickie questioned
anxiously.
“They’re right, girlie,” he reassured her.
“No need to worry about them. We’ll moor
the skiff and run over to town. I got busi-
ness in the city.”
Mr. Charles Wing, though of pure Chinese
origin, had been born in Australia. Justifiably
proud of his facile use of the English tongue,
his standard of speech was certainly above
the average in the land of his birth. The
young couple who sat facing him in the
comfortable dwelling over the business pre-
mises of the firm of C. Wing and Cos. could
certainly never aspire to the same high level
of linguistic attainment.
“What become of Jimmy Poy last night?”
the young man demanded. “I didn’t like to
ask yer too much on the public ’phone.”
Deep concern spread over the face of Mr.
Wing. “I'm more than sorry, Mr. Pickley.
That stupid boy misunderstood my directions
and waited all night for you in the wrong
bay. However, I have had a telephone mes-
sage to say that you found him this evening
and handed your charges over to him. But,
tell me, how did you manage yesterday when
daylight found you with the stowaways still
on your hands?”
“ ’Ow did I manage? You well might
arst!”
Mr. Wing was sympathetic.
“I quite understand. The risk was great
enough at night; but to be left with these
people in broad daylight—that was too bad.
But you have not satisfied my curiosity as
to how and where you disposed of them.”
“I ’ad ’em aboard a boat belongin’ to a
certain old party.”
“Ah! That’s good. I knew you would
find a way, Mr. Pickley. It was good of
your friend to allow you to use his boat to
hide them?”
“Good? I dunno about good,” the Rat
replied gloomily. “Business is business, yer
know. A matter of that sort ain’t settled
without money changin’ ’ands, as it certainly
did in this case. Nobody likes to ’ave their
boat used as a doss-’ouse for pro’ibited immi-
grants ; it’s too risky to be done for love.”
Mr. Wing nodded compreliendingly and
moved to a small safe in the corner of the
room, whence he extracted a wad of notes.
Suppose I add ten—or, say, fifteen—pounds
to the amount we agreed on for landing
these people; that should cover you for the
responsibility of the extra time they were
on your hands and your out-of-pocket ex-
penses.”
“That’ll do, me boy.”
As the Chinese flicked through his count
of the notes the Rat shot a glance at Dickie.
Ihe growing comprehension of the situation
and the adoration for himself in her eyes
counted more to him than the crisp roll of
notes which he presently stuffed into his
pocket. These denouements and their effect
on Dickie were the real prizes in his adven-
turous enterprises.
Returning northward across the harbor on
the ferry Dickie sighed rapturously and
P r f ( s ®ed close to the side of the Rat.
What yer thinkin’ about, Kid?” he asked
tenderly.
Gee, Spudge, I was just thinkin’—about
you.”
What Dickie’s tongue, semi-articulate and
vocabulary-bound, was unable to express her
more eloquent eyes did instead. Had she
ever heard of the Greek myths her eyes
would have intimated, to all who could
understand, that her Spudge—the Water-rat
to the harbor-side community—was in reality
one Apollo of Parnassus.
R. S. ADAMS.
The Frustration.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
are women who should never
£ marry. Not many, perhaps, but one
sees them now and then. They have
about them a suggestion of extreme virginity.
One can quite easily imagine them, their eyes
sWn w 1 “ lotl ? er ' lo . ve > crooning a baby to
mero’ tv, 4 boggles at the
Si! fJ '?? th ? m submitting to the,
tacts and intimacies of marriage. Such
she^wmddT 8 AU , drey Marston - I doubt if
wuv, 1 have be cn even passably happy
Tim ai *y , man - and of all men she chose
Brod/e, the most dissolute,
handsomest rake-hell in Australia.
I f] link ’ , was such ethereal beauty
welw W n th ; s ; uch , good looks as at that
” One heard on every side “Perfect
Made fo / each other,” and so forth ;
nti • d a °, dou bt others who knew them
both intimately, regarded the match as a
tragedy.
I called on her shortly after their return
trom the honeymoon, and noticed an appalling
change in her. She had been like a flower
before marriage. A daffodil, or some such
S f/}, v ’ delicate bloom. She was like that
stlil, but it was as though a scorching,
devastating westerly had blasted her. To my
mind her eyes, those beautiful violet eyes,
bad the look of death. They were fey and
inexpressibly haunting. Brodie, who came
in as I was on the point of leaving, was
the same as usual. A suavely-charming,
magnificent animal. He went back to the
tiougli immediately after their return. In
tact, I doubt if lie ever left it for a moment.
It takes a lot to put a look like that in'
a woman’s eyes.
Besides the fine Potts Point house, he had
timof H on blc Bav. and he divided his
“ m * ™y equally between Audrey and the-
successive women he kept there. There was
nothing secret or furtive about it. As I have
saia, he was an animal —promiscuous, and
lacking all inhibitions. After eighteen
months of this sort of thing—wallowing
debauch on Brodie’s part and God alone
knows what for his wife, for she never
complained—Audrey died.
There was no trial. No blistering con-
demnation from a judge ere he donned the
black cap. No trap-door swung downwards
to speed a murderer to hell. But it was
murder, for all that. Worse. It was double
murder, for he killed her body and soul.
She had been what is known as a “good”
Catholic, yet she refused to the very last
to see a priest. I can offer no reason for
this refusal other than that in her pitifully
weak state she lost her sense of values.
Possibly she felt so degraded, so contamin-
ated, that Heaven seemed quite unattainable.
I saw little of Brodie during the next two
years. A few of us, Audrey’s closest friends,
avoided him as we would a pestilence.
Society, on the whole, still welcomed him,
for vast wealth, combined with much surface
glitter and almost incredibly good looks, is
very strong. Then came the announcement
of his approaching marriage to Molly,
Audrey’s younger sister.
What a mixed reception that announcement
met with! Some people who merely thought
they knew the real Brodie welcomed it
as a vindication of his character. If he had
been rather rough on poor Audrey, just a
wee bit inconsiderate, wasn’t lie doing his
best to atone by marrying her little sister?
By lifting her from comparative poverty to
great wealth? And so on. Others declared
that he must bear a grudge against the
family—there had been only the two girls—
and would treat the one as he had treated
the other.
Almost on the heels of the announcement
lie walked into my office and, without wait-
ing for the invitation he must have known
would not be forthcoming, sat down and
faced me across the desk.
“Matthews,” he said abruptly, “I want
your advice.”
“There are other lawyers, Brodie”
“It’s not as a lawyer I’ve come to you, but
as a friend of—of Audrey’s. Listen,” he
went on hurriedly as my hand reached for
the bell—“she’s come back!”
“You’re drunk, or mad, or both,” I said
coldly.
“Wrong, my estimable friend. At least,”
he amended flippantly, “I’m not mad, and I
don’t think I’m more than three parts—er—
elevated. Harsh word that, drunk, Mat-
thews. I dislike it. She appeared,” he
resumed as I regarded him in stony silence,
“when I first made up my mind to marry
Molly. I was at home at the time dining a
few pals, and suddenly, like a flash, she was
standing beside me. Didn’t appear to come
from anywhere in particular, y’know. Just
—er —materialised, as it were.”
“You were probably drunk,” I said shortly.
“That and a guilty conscience—though I
never suspected you of having one.”
“That was visitation number one,” he re-
sumed, quite ignoring my remark; “and
what impressed me most was the utter
change in her. Instead of the timid, yielding
creature I had known, she seemed to be
power incarnate. There was a sort of de-
tached, impersonal aloofness about her that
was —er —very impressive. Didn’t open her
lips, y’know; just stood there and looked
at me. She had a small cross in her hand —
one of those little metal things they wear
on the end of a string of beads—which she
held in front of my face. As I say, she
didn’t speak and was only there a moment,
but I knew positively what she was after.
Forbidding me to marry Molly! Imagine it,
Matthews! Audrey, dead or alive, forbid-
ding me!”
The fellow was serious enough, and what
convinced me that he was speaking what he
believed to be the truth was that behind his
impassive manner I detected fear. Give the
devil his due. Brodie was very far from
being a coward.
“Hallucinations,” I began.
“That be damned!” he broke in impa-
tiently. “I tell you I saw her then, and have
seen her scores of times since. Immediately
I think of Molly—as my wife, y’know— she
jumps up in front of me like a cursed jack-
in-the-box. Pokes that cross at me, and
warns me off. Threatens me, in fact! Ah,
well,” lie went on. rising and picking up his
hat and stick, “I’ve changed my mind. I
don’t want your infernal advice, after all.
As a matter of fact, I don’t know what
possessed me to tell you all this. Impulse
and chancing to be near your office, I sup-
pose. Or perhaps because you were pretty
thick with Audrey. Rather trod on your
corns in marrying her, didn’t I?”
The fellow wouldn’t have resisted a gibe,
particularly one he guessed would go straight
to the mark, to save his life.
I refused the invitation to the wedding,
ibut for some inexplicable reason joined the
ithrong of sightseers outside the church. I
had rather been anywhere else. To have
iseen one such damnable sacrifice was enough
—yet there I was.
It was night. From a car I saw Molly
»alight, followed by Timothy Marston. her
uncle and guardian—a mercenary old skin-
flint who was to give her away, having
already sold her, as some declared. As they
walked into the church another car purred
up, and Brodie stepped out. I doubt if
there existed a more perfect specimen of
manhood than he that night. He paused
momentarily, and from his great height arro-
gantly eyed the spectators; then, preceded
by Monty Irving, his best man, walked to-
wards the church door.
Monty entered, but Brodie, with one foot
,on the step, paused. I was within a few
feet of him and, in the subdued light of the
open doorway, I saw his face distinctly. Its
expression was one of great frustration which
quickly changed to blazing anger. His arm
reached out as though to brush some obstacle
from his path. One foot crossed the thres-
hold. and then he fell as a pole-axed bullock
falls.
I was right on the spot, and saw what
no one else saw. He lay full-length on his
back, his head at my feet, and for one brief
instant there was on his forehead a red,
•angry weal. It was in the shape of a cross.
•Quickly it faded, merged with the surround-
ing pallor of the dead, and was gone.
BUTTENDERRY.


mmmm
WESTINGHOUSE
Morse Silent Rocker-Joint
CHAIN DRIVES
Ensure minimum wear—
Maximum life and highest
efficiency.
Chains in stock—wheels manu-
factured to suit requirements.
Write for particulars
and Booklet BM 414.
THE WESTINGHOUSE BRAKE CO.
OF AUSTRALASIA LTD.,
Queensland Agents—HOLMES & CHURCH, Brisbane.
N.Z. Office—93-107 JTeatherston Street, ’Wellington.
Victorian Office—99 Queen Street, Mewonrn . rn T T))
South Australian Agents: Messrs. ELDER, SMII.H & CO., LTD., ,
CONCORD WEST, N. S. WALES.
NON-PLUS-ULTRA
CORKBOARD
for ,
Cold Storage Insulation.
Compressed Cork Sheets, Standard Size 3ft. x ift.,
in various thicknesses.
Large stocks available for immediate delivery.
J. WILDRIDGE 8 SINCLAIR, LTD.,
97 PITT STREET, SYDNEY,
And at Melbourne, Brisbane, Perth and Auckland (N.Z.).
3
\
Neatly brushed
HAIR
adds much to a man’s personal
appearance. Anzora will keep your
hair tidy all day. It is clean, easy
to use and delicately perfumed.
Anzora Cream for greasy scalps,
Anzora Viola for dry scalps.
Sold by chemists, hairdressers,
and stores, or from our agents.
REFUSE ALL SUBSTITUTES
MASTERS THE HAIR
Agents for Australia: LYALL, WILMS & CO., LTD.
Melbourne. .Baldwin & Slattery Pty., Adelaide .Arthur Glover
Ltd. Brisbane.... Gregory & Collms.
Sydney Jones & Joseph, Ltd. Perth . L. M. Cullen & Co.
Manufactured by
ANZOR A PERFUMERY CO., LTD., Willesden Lane, London, ENGLAND.
mmmm
Model 17
mmm
20 bore
Repeating
Shotgun
mmm
5 shots
ALIGHT GUN makes wild fowl shooting doubly enjoyable.
This modern Remington Weighs less than 6 pounds and its
smooth working action and hard hitting qualities ace unequalled.
With 5 repeating shots it is fast and effective for duck, snipe and
all small game, particularly so when you shoot our 2-3/4 inch
case loaded with one ounce of shot.
\ J
*
you prefer a 12 hore repeater —
fof the Iteming
ARMS COMPANY, Inc.
D. D. BRYANT, Representative
G.P.O. Box 686 E Melbourne, Viet.
A Pill is the best
form of medicine
Handy to use - easy to take
If taken regularly
The best form of medicine
Provided it’s a good pill
BERCHAM’S PILLS are
The tried and trusted remedy
Of countless thousands
Contain finest ingredients
Requisite for the
Toning and strengthening of
Stomach, liver and bowels
Beecham’s Pills
Remove poisons from system
Prevent biliousness
Indigestion, sick headache
And evils which follow
Constipation.
a PcCCb the thtna
Safari
O
BO
Secure Effective Ignition
on your American Car by Fitting
LODGE
PLUGS
The sparking plug requirements of
American engines have been exhaus-
tively studied by the manufacturers of
Lodge plugs, with the result that the
special American model Lodge plugs
give the same unparalleled efficiency
in American engines as do the metric
thread Lodge plugs in European en-
gines.
Illustrated is Model CT. (7-Sin.
regular).
5/6
SUITABLE For—
Apperson, Cadillac, Chrysler, Dur-
ant-Rugby, Flint, Lincoln, Moon,
Paige-Jewett, Packard, Studebaker,
Willys-Knight.
w m
HU
111 H
Lodge Plugs are made in
models to suit all makes of engines,
are obtainable from leading accessorv
dealers, garages, and stores.
LODGE PLUGS LTD.
Rugby, ENGLAND
s®*fe»as«S
Musi
Em
ine
SATISFIED users are proofs
of quality. Over 70% of
the leading pf
the world regardKerma;thMai
Engines as standard equipment.^
All Parts Standard and Inter-
changeable. American Bosch
Magnetos —impulse coupling.
3 to 100 H. P.
I to 6
Cylinders
4 Cycle
Engines
HALL BROS.,
Foot of Willoughby' St.
North Sydney, Australia
Kermath Manufacturing Co;
Detroit) Mich., U. S. A,
Gable Addreeit-^KERMATH
HARBOR TOURIST TRIPS
Weather and other circumstances permitting.
From Fort Macquarie at 10.15 a.m. and 2.15 p.m.
EVERY TUESDAY AND EVERY THURSDAY.
Fares: All-day, 2/6: Half-day, 1/6. Children, 1/- and 6d.
l,uncheon by reservation at Clifton Gardens Hotel. Afternoon Tea on Board.
SPECIAL TRIP EVERY SUNDAY .up m, from No. 6 JETTY, CIRCULAR QUAY
Adults. 1/6. Children, 6d.
Tels.: 86276 (4 linen). Sydney Ferries, Ltd.


:\ i' * y'C^Vja
" ..V
3
’•>«' I'
■'■"••i-ilhS•>»*?*■
li •■, 'y-'••■..:<•
r%-. •- ,/ .-i
*
I \
« v j5 •« >-• ,'r. «•
fi : f
3&>
**v
.xrr
,A-£
Cl'
/i'
r.Afii
r *<*:
%*£•*
■***!*: -
u
v
m\*
V^-XvVv.
O'",
?) r 'a5;
r /
-
\
jT
//
* fry***** 1
Pt r gL*« 9^
ftw * JKf
j
?
&
it
*
‘Scotch” and you’ll get a whisky
—of some sort. Ask for “Johnnie
Walker” and you’ll get the whisky
—the right-sort. Its quality and age
are guaranteed the world over.
o
m
»r —#c
LS\-i
ji m+mmmJil
o
HI
Bottled only by ourselves in Bond, under
Government supervision, and guaranteed
the same quality throughout the world.
'i e,
-V
I
. '
XX' ■.(- j
John Walker & Sons, Ltd., Scotch Whisky Distillers, Kilmarnock, Scotian
D
