

r-£ TzdJj,
mm
-C*J\'
SSS
wM-
(' li’r;
d*-/
WiW
s-M*;
WL
■ss.
os
rxx
V'P'k
£SSs
W&0&.
tn
MillSlllS
m
r- •
riS
tvS;‘i\--.-::i
f
UJ
~J
S 7
2
NONE GENUINE
WITHOUT The BRAND
opt HATS
MADE IN
AUSTRALIA
The Bulletin
Vol. 48.—N0. 2478.
See page 36.
Thursday, August 11, 1927.
Price 6d.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.


for the 3927 New Library Cata-
logue, which is now ready and will ho
sent post free with full terms particulars
on application to L dr s
DYMOCK’S BOOK ARCADE, LTD
428 George Street, Sydney.
■ 1
7 M''
m
-j
j
v
Carry an inkwell
in your pockets
Forget steel pens and inkpots
they are things of the past.
Carry a fountain pen and have
ink wherever you go. Own a
pen that seems part of your
hand, that will always write the
same, that makes writing easy.
Choose a cc Swan.”
cc Swan ” nibs, which are
tipped with osmi-iridium—an
indestructible and wonderfully
smooth point will last a
life-time. Remember there’s a
cc Swan ” nib to suit every hand.
Oblique, Broad, Med. Broad,
Turned-up, Medium and Fine.
a Swan ” Self-filling Fountpens
from 17/6 upwards
“ Swan ” Pens, tf Swan ” Ink, c( Blackbird ” Pens
Of Stationers and Jewellers
MABIE, TODD & CO., LTD ,
Swan House, 133 & 135 Oxford Street, London, W. I
Factory: Swan Works, London, N.W.
Swam
1
Agents and Repair Service Depot
PHIPSON & COMPANY, LTD.,
Broughton House, 181 Clarence Street, SYDNEY.
r
THE MARK OF
A GOOD RAZO
nxan vou know who use* • PLUM—
wk bun tf he doet&'t think it the best
Raxor be has ever used. Hear him
answer, "Why, rather!"
3?
12
6
Post Free.
SUPPLIED SET READY FOR USE
GUARANTEED AND KEPT IN
ORDER FOR TWO YEARS FREE
CRAIG &
654 George Sti
If any illustration in THE BULLETIN” takes your fancy, write
to the MANAGER, who will quote you price for the original.
THE VOICE! THROAT! LUNGS!
HUDSON’S Eumenthol Jujubes
AN IDEAL
\Jn>
s»™
•omriHs
*o-35
SON
.
For Coughs, Colds, Sore Throats,
Bronchitis, Influenza.
Containing no Cocaine or Other
Poisonous Drug.
Suited for Old and Young.
The Lancet says:—“Proved to be effective bac-
tericidally as is creosote.”
Unlike cough medicines, EUMENTHOL JUJUBES
do not interfere with the Digestion; on the contrary,
they have a beneficial effect, as their antiseptic
properties prevent abnormal fermentation of the food
when taken after meals.
The Red Page
Visiting Pianists
Since the war Australia has been singu-
larly blessed with visits from the first-flight
of pianists. The culminating point was
reached this year, perhaps, in the arrival
of Paderewski and Friedman. I cannot
dogmatise concerning the relative merits, of
such men; nevertheless, it is interesting
and perhaps not unprofitable to analyse
the various appeals that these master
musicians make to us. For instance, even
the lay musician would have an inkling
that Backhaus and Grainger are distinct
in type.
Above all others two men have appealed
to me because of their sense of perfect
understanding, Ignaz Friedman and Moisei-
witsch. Friedman was superb in everything
he did; it mattered not whether he was
tone-painting the delicate miniatures of the
Chopin nocturnes, the mighty canvases of
Beethoven or the old masters of Bach, he
was Friedman the supreme. The recollec-
tions of Moiseiwitsch, perhaps heightened by
hearing him .in Europe a .couple of years
ago, are almost, but not quite, equally
satisfying. If one remembers rightly, he
was advertised here as “the poet of the
piano” That was as unjust as it was un-
fortunate, for the brilliant Pole was much
more than that. (By the way, the new
“Encyclopaedia of Music,” an American
publication edited by Pratt, in a list of
7500 musicians active during the past two
hundred years doesn't deem Moiseiwitsch
worthy of a mention. On the other hand
we are compensated by a few lines on
Edmund J. Mycr, of York Springs, Pa.,
who, it is stated, writes manuals on “vocal-
ics.” Hail Columbia!)
Of Paderewski, for years classed as the
greatest of them all, dare we mention his
present inconsistency? At times, more
especially in his Chopin work and his own
compositions, he was unique and glorious.
The mystery of that rich crimson tone
seems to be his own possession. But there
were other occasions on which his age
seemed to render him not so triumphant
as of yore. It, seemed to the listener that
his physical strength was not fully equal
to the stupendous exertion that some of
his long programme pieces entailed. Yet
I do not remember ever being so deeply
stirred by Chopin as the night Paderewski
gave his Chopin recital here in Sydney.
Of course the old master musician looks
the part so typically—that wonderful head
of his with the picturesque hair, that per-
fect poise at the instrument! How different
from the business-like impeccability of
Heifetz, of the friendliness of Friedman!
Backhaus appealed to me as the apostle
of efficiency and perfect control. He bul-
lied his instrument, whilst Paderewski
coaxed it and playfully scolded it. He
ordered the notes to produce a certain tone
and they obeyed him to the letter. But
one felt the fraction of a second’s hiatus
between the two events. One felt that he
would never play a wrong note, but one
rather wished he would, although one had
the thought that such an event woidd be
the piano’s fault and not his. Our own
Percy Grainger was the very antithesis of
Backhaus. He and the piano were one
complete whole. One felt, though, that
the same could not quite be said of him
and the composer. Grainger, although a
master of the lighter class of piano and
orchestral work, is a man of great intellect,
a thinker, a dreamer. Which is, when you
come to think of it, paradoxical enough to
be Chestertonian. Grainger sees the visions
of things that will be, while Backhaus
glories in the things that were. Grainger
is independent and open to receive any
new idea in music on which he can chew
the mental cud and ruminate till he takes
it or rejects it. Backhaus might have been
one. of the Old Testament prophets. Grain-
ger might have written Revelation.
Levitzki was somewhat of a puzzle. There
was no question about his extraordinary
ability, there was no question of his breadth
of vision and musical understanding. But
one had the indefinable feeling that he
was not a Friedman, a Backhaus nor a
Paderewski. If anything, he reminded one
of Moiseiwitsch. Perhaps his youth was a
too T cvident factor in his work. He is only
twenty-eight. Another visit from him
would perhaps place him in a more secure
position amongst the mighty ones of piano-
forte playing.
There are some eminent pianists who
ha\ e left Australia out of their visiting
lists hitherto. Chief amongst them is Pach-
mann, the reputed greatest interpreter of
Chopin the world has ever seen. He was
born in 1848, however, so we can exclude
him from the list of possible visitors. One
who is stilt in the prime of life is Rach-
maninoff, of Prelude fame, who is now a
resident of New York. His fees are said
to be enormous, but there is no reason
to suppose that, it, would not pay him to
include Australia in’ his-visiting list. Cor-
tot, d Albert; Hoffmann and a few other
masters of their art have never bathed
themselves in Australian sunshine. It, is
to be hoped that they will not defer their
almost inevitable visit till they are chasing
the sunset of their careers.
Recently I had occasion to deplore on
this I age the urgent need of a first-class
teacher of voice-production at the Sydney
Oonservatorium. It is therefore ail the
more a pleasure to state that our Mac-
quane-street institution is particularly rich
in accomplished piano recitalists and
teachers The trio consisting of Godfrev
bmith, h rank Hutchens and Lindley Evans
are of considerable excellence. All three
ha\ e leceivecl London (and, in one case,
Luiope&n) commendation of very great
worth. The two-piano work of Hutchens
and Evans is something of which Australia
should be very proud. One wishes that the
teaching claims of both artists were not so
great and pressing, for then we might see
the pair touring the world on an equal
footing with those two brilliant Americans
who visited us not so long ago.
KEITH BARRY.
Materia Medica
W ere I to tell as much of the truth as
1 know about sex, society would frown, at
me, the postal authorities would forbid its
printed circulation, some self-constituted
censor would hale me before a tribunal,
and were I dependent upon patients foi
livelihood, want would soon stare me in t
face.” These words may read somewh
unpromisingly as an answer to the pi
hsher’s frequent appeals to Dr. Jose
Collins to write the truth about, sex. Ho
ever, with the doctor’s assurance that
one knows the whole truth about the matt
we must be content with so much of it
this distinguished neurologist cares to revea
in /he Doctor Looks at Love and Li
(Brentnno’s; Angus and Robertson).
Religion has attempted to direct anc
control the sexual urges of mankind, bu
has not been successful. This task mig
have been an easier one if every living bei
was patterned in the same sexua l in on
Procreative capacity comes, however,
different people in different ways. "To son
it comes like a hurricane; to others li
a warm wind in spring.. It steals upon son
like a thief in the night; it. affronts othe
like an armed highwayman in the full da
To some it does not come at all; to othe
it comes but does not stay. To the ma
it seems to come far more tin
to the female.”
That protracted continence, unless som
other wish can be substituted for the pr
creative desire, is not contributory to eith
health or sanity is the doctor’s opinion upc
a matter that must have disturbed tl
minds of a'great many theologians. Unlik
the theologians, however, the doctor doe
not find it an easy matter about which i
be dogmatic. He believes that the dete
initiation to save one’s soul is not the on
substitute, and that the conditions unde
which continence may best contribute t
health and happiness are those in whic
the individual is proud, rather than ashamec
of his creative possessions. “That th
reward for keeping his jewels in their case
should bo not the promise of happiness i
the dead, but in the quick—the knowledg
that he can offer them whole to one wh
is worthy of them.” Marriage, however, i
for the majority, mostly a matter of econo
mics, and if it is too long delayed th
individual takes the chance of developin
some sexual anomaly which will impede hi
uset illness and stultify his happiness
Whether the individual is. therefore just,
fied m renouncing the pleasure and prof!
of carrying love to its full blooming, if h
is unable to solve the economic problen
of matrimony, is a question which the
doctor would have everyone permitted to
answer for himself. “Priest, moralist
pedagogue, physician, economist, statesman
are all entitled to express an opinion, to
exhortation even, but to nothing more.’
On this matter they have no right to
threaten or intimidate the individual.
Some children get sex instruction from
teachers, a few get it from parents. The
majority get, it “from gutters and latrines
tiom vicious schoolfellows and more vicious
elders, and, later, from pernicious pamph-
lets. Invariably this, 'including the in-
struction of parents and teachers, is mis-
information. The doctor is of the opinion
that there is only one thing to tell children
about these matters, and that is truth. There
is only one time, and that is when the child
asks. The truth should be told, but not
necessarily the whole truth at one time.
hA ery child is ahva.ys interested in his
own body. He can be informed about it
and its functions by being taught the life
histories of familiar plants and of the lower
01 ms of animal life. When the time comes
to put before him facts of sex and repro-
duction, the child will be purged of prurient
prudery and ready to accept a natural
attitude towards sex and its display.” If
the parent has not the requisite tact,
patience and intelligence for this task, it
should be entrusted to teachers; but “to
have sex taught by a celibate woman stored
Wl .™ or by a pious man
spiritually warped by vicarious sex appease-
ment m his youth, or by one whose sex
endowment is feeble and errant, as is the
case in so many private schools and colleges
to-Ray, is to stage a tragedy.”
The doctor’s look at Love and Life is
as comprehensive as the understanding and
sympathy which he displays. His business
is mostly with the psychoneurotic, but there
come to him also well-balanced people whose
sexua! endowment has got misplaced. The
woild classes such people as degenerate,
(Continued on page 5.)


Pianos and PHonog'raphs
obtainable only at
Anthony Horderns -
TOURIST BUREAU
AND
TRAVEL SERVICE.
A Branch of the
Thos. Cook
& Son
Tourist Bureau is now open at
Anthony Horderns’ in the
Tudor Room, Mezzanine Floor.
It o#£rs facility for
arranging Local and Oversea
Tours. Information, Reserva-
tions and Tickets for Travel
to all parts of the world.
Travellers’ cheques are issued.
The Palmer & Son Piano
The "Palmer 6c Son” Piano is noted for its
exquisite beauty of tone and its responsive
delicacy. Height, 4ft. 4in.; depth, 2ft. 2in.;
width, 4ft. 7in. Compass of seven and one-
third octaves, overstrung action, gilded iron
frame, brass pedal feet, ivory-grained keys.
Finest quality of hammer felt used throughout.
In high-grade finish, transparent polish showing
the figure and grain in the Walnut
Can also be had in Mahogany
case.
ANTHONY HORDERNS’
now stock all
KODAK
SUPPLIES
Yet another unique service is
offered to the public. By
special arrangement all Kodak
Supplies are now obtainable
at Anthony Horderns’, on the
Second Floor, George Street.
An up-to-date range includes
the latest novelties introduced
by Messrs. Kodak (Austral
asia) Pty., Ltd.
“Pooley” Phono. Louis Period
Upright Cabinet, Walnut or
Mahogany finish. Has a beauti-
ful silk gauze front and spacious
record cupboard. The motor i 3
of the large Saal Double-Spring
type. “Mutual Saxophonic” tone
arm and sound box. Size, o
19x21 x 45 in. high. .
Pooley Phonograph
"Pooley” Phonograph is of Walnut or
Mahogany, size 34 x 33 x 2 1 in. Fitted with
Nickel-plated sound box, Pooley tone arm,
speed regulator and tone intensifier. The
sound box is adapted for any make of
needle. Both in appearance and quality
this model will prove an r 00/1 A/
artistic delight 1 0/*
'Musical Instruments—Second Floor.)
(We do not pay carriage on above goods.)
“Uniphone” No. 5 can be
obtained in either light or dark
finish Oak. The measurements
are 45 x 21 £ x 1 8 in. Has two-
shelved record compartment. The
motor is double worm drive, Swiss
make, playing three records with
£10(1916
Anthony Horderns -
Postal Address: S"Y!D!NEY> Box No. 2712 C G.P.O.


7HE DIRECTOR —a "New Studebilker
Custom Sedan for 5 passengers.
New Low Price: iS3O
CUSTOM SEDANS
f cAlluring Beauty \
‘Dignified Elegance
Superb Comfort
Superlative Performance i
Enduring Stamina j
'T'he beautiful New
Studebaker Cus-
tom Sedans-recently
added to the regular
Studebaker line— are
the Studebaker con-
ception of the kind
of car people of in-
fluence and standing
should ride in.
Resting on a long wheel-
base, they reveal the long
level lines of cars built to
individual order—settling
low over disc wheels -
richly lacquered in two-
tone finish—full vision
afforded by wide plate-
glass windows and sturdy
but narrow pillars.
The NewStudebakerTwo-beam Acorn
Headlights accentuate the graceful
lines of the car, while obviating dim-
ming and affording a full measure of
safety in night driving. The UPPER
beam is for country driving, and the
DEFLECTED beam, of full intensity,
for city driving or when other cars
are approaching. These lights are
conveniently controlled from the
steering wheel.
The New Studebaker
Custom Sedans are replete
with every detail of cus-
tom luxury. A built-to-
order price is the only
built -to - order feature
missing.
The interior is embellish-
ed with deep, durable
mohair upholstery, broad-
lace trim and enamel-in-
lay silvered fittings.
New no-draught, ventilat-
ing weatherproof wind-
shield, found only on the
Studebaker; new positive,
powerful, four - wheel
brakes, new oil purolator;
new waterproof ignition
system; disc wheels; full-
size balloon tyre; combin-
ation stop-and-tail light.
The Erskine Six Studebaker s New VConder Colt —is now on
display , This little Aristocrat of Motordom offers entirely new
standards of small car stamina, comfort, performance and
economy. See it in our Showrooms.
To-duy more than ever before, knowing motorists with discriminat-
ing tastes, who want a realty fine car and know how much they
should pay for it, are making their selection from the Studebaker -
Erskine line of Fine Quality Cars.
New Reduced Prices:
The Director —Australian Bodied Sedan for five passengers ... £453
The Director —a Custom Sedan for five passengers ... ... £530
The Commander —a Custom Sedan for five passengers ... ... £625
The President —a Custom Sedan for seven passengers ... ... £795
F.O.R. SYDNEY.
Complete equipment including five balloon tyres, steel disc wheels,
positive four-wheel brakes, bum er bars front and rear, no-draught
ventilating windshield —exclusively Studebaker.
Australian and New Zealand Distributors
NEW SOUTH WALES:
The Studebaker Corporation of Australasia Limited , Sydney .
VICTORIA:
Turner Brcs., 39&-400 Swanston St.,
Melbourne.
WEST AUSTRALIA:
Sydney Atkinson Motor-’ Ltd.,
41 45 Bier Street, Perthv
WMB49
QUEENSLAND:
Canad > Cyc e & Motor Agency Q)
Ltd., Creek & Adelaide Sts., Brisbane.
TASMANIA:
Island Motors Proprietary, Ltd.
76 Murray Street, Hobart.
Local Dealers at all important towns.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA :
Duncan & Frazer, Ltd.
42-48 Franklin direct Adelaide.
NEW ZEALAND:
Adams Ltd., 152-154 High Street,
Christchurch.
V*
“ STUDEBAKER SERVICE TO STUDEBAKER AND ERSKINE OWNERS IS UNEQUALED IN AUSTRALIA.”


“Lloyd Last ” Quality Shoes only at David Jones'
: ■
/;?
■
~A
m
*
1
“ Lloyd Last Quality
All that you demand of good shoes,
you will find in our “Lloyd Last 55 Quality.
There are half sizes, too, in several com-
fortable fittings—you can get your exact
size. Prices from - 39/6 to 72/6
Accessible Men's Shops—George Street
DAVID JONES’
For Service —Sydney
although their deviation from the normal
is one that is often associated with genius.
Parmenides and Zeno, Phidias and Pan-
tarkes, Euripides and, Agathon, Socrates and
Alcibiades, Demosthenes and Eschines, were
all members of this brotherhood; as also
were Michel Angelo, Shakspeare and Walt
Whitman. They are, almost invariably,
people of refinement, taste and sensibility,
and the tragedy of their existence lies in
the circumstance that they are unwilling
to accept the stigma of abnormality, and
if they attempt to deliver themselves of
their burden in the way that nature has
suggested to them, the State puts them
into prison. Out of every hundred human
beings God makes three homosexuals and
97 heterosexuals; and the reason is no more
apparent than that He should make 106
men for every 100 women. Many people
(most of whom were endowed with homo-
sexuality) have tried to establish the claim
that this deviation from normal sexuality
was nature’s effort to create a race of
supermen—superior in the sense that they
belonged to an intermediate sex in whom
there was such union or balance of feminine
and masculine qualities that they became
the interpreters of men and women to each
other. The doctor supports no such claim.
“Recent experiments would seem to indicate
that what has been a suspicion in the mind
of scientists for some time will soon be
proved fact, viz., that there is small differ-
ence between the two sexes.” The essential
difference is that one produces spermatozoa
and the Other ova. The rest is negli-
gible. The day may come when science
shall be able to supply male and female
hormones. The vast majority of human
being have a preponderance of male or
female elements. The minority have not.
They are the homosexuals,' in other respects
essentially masculine or feminine. When
the deficiency from which they suffer can
be made up by transplantation, the riddle
of the sex sphinx shall be advanced towards
solution.
GERALD DILLON.
Australian Worthies
America and Australia have been settled
under similar conditions, and Australia wdli
’probably repeat the American history of
development. America and Australia alike
owe much to Dutch discovery; within half
a century of each other Hendrick Hudson
sailed up his river between Manhattan and
the New Jersey shore and Abel Tasman
sailed from Batavia to find the Great South
Land, and found the most southern island
ol the present Commonwealth. North of
the Molen Vliet and of the new, healthy
capital of Weltevreden (or “well-satisfied”)
is the Kali Besar and the mouldering old
oi Batavia. The modern Dutch of
the East Indies have translated the memo-
ries of Abel Tasman into ships and ships’
decorations, but nothing remains of the
house ot Anthony Van Diemen, Governor
of Batavia in 1642, and the best the
Batavian can do is to show you the prob-
able site. The nearest I could get to the
man and his time is the journal of Tasman
himself. The Dutch have made fine repro-
ductions and translations of it, and I en-
joyed the reading:
"'This is the journal drawn by me, Abel
Jans Tasman, of a voyage \made from the
town of Batavia in East India for the dis-
covery of the unknown South Land in the
year of our Lord, 1642, the 14 th of
August. May Cod Almighty vouchsafe His
blessing on this work. Amen.”
Away sailed Abel with his small ships,
more crowded with men than even the
modern warship; 500 men in a ship of 200
tons or so, to be given to battle and scurvy
■ —many to go, and few to come back
again. Abel itemises his days. Not many
are interesting enough to quote:—
“Item. Thursday, August 14. a.d. 1642,
we set sail from the roads of Batavia with
two ships, to wit the yacht Heems Kercq and
the flute Zeehaen, the wind being north-
east. with good weather.”
“Item. August 17: Resolved that from
Sunda Strait we shall sail 200 miles to s.-w.
by w r . as far as 14 degrees south ; from then
to w.s.w. as far as 20 degrees south and
from there due west to the island of Mauri-
tius.”
On that course they could not have missed
Australia better if they had tried.
The good sense of Tasman comes out in
almost every entry. He won through be-
cause of the good comradeship of his expe-
dition. When there was doubt as to
procedure Tasman called his round-table:
“We summoned on board of us all our
skippers and first and second mates, and, if
desired, all and each to give his opinion
in writing as to where rendezvous should
bo made.” Wherever there was doubt as
to movement affecting all, the representa-
tives of all were consulted. Comradeship
was partly the reason why John Forrest
came through in his not-well-equipped ex-
plorations, while the arrogant and theatrical
Burke (of Burke affd Wills) failed.
"Item. November 1: This day our master-
gunner Eldert Luytiens departed this life
in the Lord.”
The winds were still westerly with hail
and snow. They were now in south latitude
47 degrees 56 minutes; longitude 119 de-
grees 6 minutes. They resolved to shape
a course n.e., running to 44, and then east
to 150 longitude. (It was not chance;
there were good brains behind that par-
quetting of the ocean.)
“Item. On November 24 we saw land very
high and three high mountains; and after
three glasses had run out the wind turned
soutli-east. This land being the first we have
met in the South Seas, and not known to any
European nation, we have conferred on it
the name of Anthony Van Diemen in honor
of the Governor-General, our illustrious
master who sent us to make this discovery.”
This was at Maria Island. Maria Van
Diemen was the daughter of Van Diemen
but not the lover of Abel. I am sorry
for this. Years ago I wrote some verses
about Abel; I made Abel stay away longer
than he did, and I made Maria die early
and beautifully of a broken heart because
Abel lingered in the South. All the excuse I
can offer is that long before I wrote of her
Maria had died of something—probably
of the scents and interesting diseases and
calentures of Old Batavia; and that nothing
I said of her and of Tasman could have
affected her reputation. Abel Tasman, at
the time of his Australian discovery, any-
how, was unlikely to have fretted much
for any lady. Born in the village of Sint-
gast in 1603, he was a widower in 1631;
remarried in 1632, and soon afterward left
his Jannetze and sailed for India, and made
in Batavia the reputation which gave him
the Southern command.
The Dutch quality which had proved
them a big and steadfast people in their
revolt against Spain came out in Tasman
and the other Dutchmen who mapped half
of Australia. In Tasman’s map of 1644
earlier Dutch ' discoveries show Australia
truly figured, with Tasmania part of Aus-
tralia but otherwise correct, to North-West,
New Guinea.
To go back to November 25. 1642: “We
dropped anchor in a good harbor in 22
fathoms and white and grey fine sand, a
naturally-drying bottom; for all which it
behoved us to thank God Almighty with
grateful hearts.” They went ashore, Fran-
coys Jaoobszoon and Gerritt Ganszoon;
Isack Filseman, the super-cargo; Abraham
Coomans, the sub-cargo; and the master
carpenter, Pieter Jaoobszoon; and the surf
running strongly “the master carpenter
swam ashore with the flag and planted it
strongly.” ‘
They sailed out of Storm Bay to discover
the West, Coast of New Zealand, and lost
four of their company to Maori murderers;
whereat Abel naively says: “There was
nothing there we were in want of, and so
sailed away.” They increased their dis-
coveries north to the Solomons, frugally
bartering one nail for four coco-nuts; but
not so frugal as Sir William McGregor,
who when Governor of Papua made a cur-
rency of gunwads, and once bought a six-
dozen bunch of bananas for two matches.
So home by way of the northern shore of
New Guinea; and Abel Tasman writes
thus:—
“Item. June 15. 1643: In the morning, at
daybreak, I went to Batavia in the pinnace.
God be praised and thanked for this happy
voyage. Amen. Done in the ship Heems
Kercq.—Your worship’s obedient and ever-
obliged servant, Abel Jams Tasman.”
There is probably no people more un-
grateful to the sailors who found their
country and the landsmen who explored
it interiorly than the Australian. You see
in Australian cities pictures and statues of
Governors who do‘not matter; but rarely
in Australia a word or a stone or a por-
trait of gallant adventurers whose adven-
tures had as part of the impelling force
the pure love of discovery. All round our
coasts are their names known to some
sailormen and to a few scholars, but never
brought to the people of the cities in some
way that they can understand. One day
some grateful Australian, or some Austra-
lian Government with imagination and a
love of duty, will .give form to these world-
adventurers who put Australia on the map
—Luiz Paz de Torres, Mendana, Tasman.
Van Edel, Houtman, Dirk Hartog, De Witt,
Van Arnheim, Van Edel, Pieter Nuyts, de
Freycinet, Dampier, Bougainville, James
Cook, Banks, Solander and great Matthew
Flinders; and while w-e are at it, that Street
of the Nation with its bronze avenue of
the dead adventurers should be extended
to carry Blaxland, Wentworth, Evans,
Hume, fiovell, Kennedy, Cunningham, Pat-
rick Leslie, Mitchell, Sturt, Batman, Mc-
Douall Stuart, Phillip, King and Macquarie,
George Higinbotham, Peter Lalor, Marcus
Clarke, Victor Daley, John Moffatt and
James Tyson. They were all adventurers
of the better sort—the sort that, give to
the country immeasurably more than they
take from it.
RANDOLPH BEDFORD.
Status for Writers
Rejecting a proposition of patrons and
prizes, Arthur Adams and Louis Esson
make a demand for an ambiguous and
abstract thing called “status,” which turns
a humble effort to draft a true bill into
a thing more vague even than an election
promise. It is of little use to lament the
writers’ lack of status in the community
without proposing something practical to
create status. Status must depend on credit-
able performance and on the attention or
appreciation the performance attracts. The
patron and prize scheme which I sug-
gested, bad though it be, is the only one
that will draw public attention.
At present the public is as hard as iron,
and status will mean nothing till the public
is educated to admit that status; and how
is this to be brought about? ‘•hough there
is very little money to be made out of the
business, I suggest “patrons” for the reason
that no organisation can exist without
money, and “prizes” mainly on account of
the public attention the adjudication and
awards would attract. To say that the
only available judges would be poets them-
selves is against the facts. Fears of jealousy
and mismanagement are childish bogies
Dora Wilcox got more attention by win-
ning the Canberra Ode Competition than
all her previous work attracted, and who
grudges her that? And who would dare
speak slightingly of “mismanagement”?
All the Empire’s wars have been won with
it 1 A.
Both the critics I have mentioned seem
to have a leaning toward those spasmodic
and depressing dinners we have all attended
from time to time, but these have no prac-
tical or permanent effect upon the situa-
tion, however the individual diners may-
fare. There is nothing gained by singing
“He’s a jolly good fellow” and drinking
toasts to a writer whose work the majority
of the diners are unacquainted with and
who will himself be forgotten and ignored
as soon as the conviviality evaporates.
Writers’ clubs do not thrive in Australia
like they do in older countries because
we have less literary activity here and
less public, general and particular. There
is certainly a lot of subsidising in those
countries that the public learns nothing
about, and there are a number of wealthy
people who know that in helping writers
toward status they do not injure their
own. The wealthy people in Australia
should be shown that it is not discreditable
for them to be associated with disinterested
literary movements that are rarely paying
propositions in any part of the world. If
there is free money about, surely the cul-
tural movements have some claim on it!
Though universities are just as much charit-
able institutions as hospitals, the profes-
sions do not seem to be blushingly con-
scious of that; and why should poets and
dramatists be afraid to ask that some of
the community’s surplus wealth be used
to encourage the things they believe in?
Literature does not pay; England’s great-
ness in this domain depends largely upon
private incomes.
So far as Australia is concerned it is re-
grettable that the means proposed are the
only ones likely to be effective; if that
is not the case, what are the practical
suggestions?
FIRNLEY MAURICE.
A Satchel of Books
Seventy Years a Shoivman, by “Lord”
George Sanger (Dent). A reprint with an
introduction by Kenneth Grahame.
Kong, by Harold Kingsley (Fisher
Unwin). A tale of love and piracy in the
China seas, dedicated to Oscar Asche —in
the possible hope that the creator of a
“Chu Chin Chow” will turn that way.
The Chinese Parrot, by Earl Derr Diggers
(Harrap). The novel, the stage and the
film have each contributed to the popularity
of the author of “Seven Keys to Baldpate.”
Fun, mystery and a weird bird make up this
dish.
The Ragged Garment, by E. P. P. Samuels
(Fisher Unwin). The rags and tatters of
a worn-out friendship furnish the author
with sufficient material for clever and interest-
ing studies of human nature in a novel which
has in it elements of originality.
Call of the Trail, by D. S. MacGregor
(Macaulay; Dymocks). Demon Danvers,
the book’s outlaw hero, makes the swash-
buckler of melodrama a merely “penny plain"
beside bis “tuppenny colored.” Guaranteed
to warm the blood in the coldest climate.
Jeremy Takes a Hand, by Cornelia Kane
Rathbone (Appleton). Two mysterious
deaths in the one household make a solid
foundation for a detective story refreshingly
removed from the atmosphere of the pro-
fessional sleuth. Skilfully handled, with
some clever sketches of character and a
vein of romance.
Passion Island, by Juanita Savage
(Geoffrey P»les). There is much sin and
sorrow in the South Sea Islands and not
the least of the sorrow is that they furnish
a local habitation and a name for the pro-
ducts of a bunch of fiction-mongers with
little real knowledge concerning them. This
is a story composed of savages, human
derelicts, passionate love and sentimental
maunderings with a little “tropical verdure”
thrown in.
War Birds (Doran). Toward the close
of the war a young American aviator was
shot down by a German ’plane 20 miles
beyond the Hun lines. To the credit of
our then enemies the dead man was given a
decent burial and later on, after peace had
been declared, his grave was found by the
Red Cross. Ilis name remains unknown,
but this book is his diary reproduced in the
scrappy and familiar form of such personal
records. Here we find the primitive pas-
sions of lust and sensuality side by side
with dauntless courage and loyalty to friend
and country—instinct with life, stark and
vivid.
Australia (British Empire Educational
Press). Under Lord Apsley’s editorship is
being published a series of sixpenny pam-
phlets with the object of placing before the
youth of the Empire a body of generalised
knowledge with regard to the units that con-
stitute it and the men who assisted in their
development. The first dealt with notable
persons in the making of Canada, the second
is appropriated to our Commonwealth. Bio-
graphical sketches are given of Captain Cook.
Banks, Macarthur, Wentworth. Burke, E. 11.
Hargreaves, Gordon, John Forrest. George
Reid and Samuel Griffith —a pretty fair
list, but one wonders how one or two got
into it to the exclusion of. say, Parkes and
Barton. The Marquess of Salisbury, in an
appeal to youthful readers, asks them to
take to heart what has been done by these
pioneers of Empire. Scattered through tin'
book are many statistical and other notes on
our productive capacity.


Travellers Should
Carry Cuticura
Daily use of the Soap and Oint-
ment removes the dust and grime
of travel, allays irritation, redness
and roughness of the face and
hands and keeps the skin soft and
clear under all conditions of ex-
posure. Cuticura Talcum is fra-
grant, cooling and refreshing, an
ideal toilet powder.
Soap Is.,Talcum 18.3(1., Ointment Is. and
2s. For sample Soap and Ointment ad-
dress: “R.Towns & Co., Sydney, N.S. W.”
Cuticura Shaving Stick Is. 6d.
RUPTURE
is Dangerous-
I This condition, no mat-
l ter how slight, should
& never be neglected.
%
*****
i OUR IMPROVED AIR CUSHION APPLIANCE
I is the latest scientific discovery for
this complaint, and is guaranteed to
hold a rupture firmly and comfort-
ably under all conditions. We give
you a straight deal and offer A FREE
TRIAL WITH EVERY APPLIANCE
that we send out. Write at once for
I FREE ILLUSTRATED CATALOG.
WINSLOW & CO., 104 Queen St., Melbourne, V.
HOTEL
METROPOLE,
. . . SYDNEY.
Opposite Union Club anti Two Minutes
from Entrance to Domain and Circular
Quay.
TAlilPi* 1 from 18/6 per tlay, or apart-
ments may be secured separately by the
day from 6/6 and upwards. Cards of Tariff
and all particulars posted on application
The Manager.
A DOUBLE SOLE
Long wear, and comfort
under the roughest condi-
tions, are guaranteed by the
half-inch, double sole of the
Abbey Cossack. The upper,
too, is double thickness, be-
ing lined with strong, soft
leather.
There’s no risk of tightness
over the instep—the boot is
arched to fit easily where it
laces. The tongue has pli-
able flaps that keep out grass
seeds or dust and comfort-
ably pad the instep.
Order by Post
The Abbey Cossack is made in
black or tan the tan at two
prices. In all cases the soles are
of the same grade, the higher-
priced tan boot having an
upper of special quality.
TAN
WILLOW
(39/6 and
145/- per pair
BLACK .... 37/6 P er P a * r
ABBEY
Established over 80 years,
313 George St. & 224 Pitt St.,
132. SYDNEY.
8 : m
fui N
f POLISHES— PRESERVES—PREVENTS CRACKS
BOS I CCK’S Shoe Creams are made in all
principal shades, and especially noted for the
New Shade of Bois-de-Rose, Putty, Sunburn
and Oak.
Price 6d, per tube* Obtainable Everywhere .
ei
m
Smoke and enjoy the exquisite
navor of this Cigar.
Made of superb Havana Tobacco,
with a smooth, satiny wrapper.
At all good hotels
and tobacconists,
BOX PRICES:
12/fi BU In 8/ %J P °? ed 6/ ,' ); 25 ’ 12/m (PosM
12/6); 50, 23/- (posted 23/9); 100 45/-
(posted 46/-).
Sampler box, containing 2 Cigars, !/■ pos t rree>
CRAIG 8 AITKEN, 654 George Street, Sydney
Distributors for Club Reil Cigar Factory,
D.
EACH.
VARIOUS VERSE
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Winged Thoughts.
The sunset lit the bridges
By Mascot's level lands;
Now o’er lagoons and ridges
The shadows stretch their hands.
breeze the stream lias fretted
_ Though blue smoke’s drifting slow
T rom chimneys silhouetted
Against the afterglow;
And from celestial roaming
By endless azure lanes,
To earth, like eagles homing,
Swing down the aeroplanes.
hen dawn was boldly flinging
Bed radiance everywhere.
Above the skylark's singing
' file loud ’planes took the air-
The skyline far that called them’,
The silver dome on high.
Were all the bonds that thralled them
Who had the will to fly,
To win beyond the prison
Of weary, earthly ways.
Ah! when the bright wings glisten
llow dull is he who stays!
One sped off like an arrow.
When dawn had scarcely come
Across the waters narrow
To make the night-tongues dumb.
Who was it, young and peerless,
Swung off towards the skies
In spirals steep and fearless
lo see the sun arise?
To see the far blue beckon
Towards infinity,
Whose distance none may reckon
By star or sky or sea?
So wondrous are the mornings
When deep things stir the soul,
So idle are all warnings
When neath wide wings unroll
A vision which no treasures
Could buy; yet dusk will come.
And dusk brings back the measures
Of earth and night and home.
And so, like tired birds dropping
1° rest by rushes brown.
' m! 1 h° arse > deep engines stopping
J lie aeroplanes sweep down.
Like aeroplanes enamelled
In silver, white and blue.
Our thoughts and dreams untrammelled
Oo out at morning too ;
Out past the last, long surges,
And past the mountain’s crest,
The morning’s glory urges
Our true thoughts and our best.
Despite the tasks and labors
W hieh crowd the busy day,
L nnoticed by our neighbors,
Afar our true thoughts stray.
But when the kind dusks hover
W ith warm, brown eyes that dream,
Our thoughts race, homing, over
lar sea and peak and stream
lo seek the home-lights kindly
W here, heart to heart, we plan
huch dreams as, clear or blindly.
Must come to every man. . . . ‘
lark! In the gathered gloaming
E rom blue, celestial lanes,
lo earth, like eagles homing,
Swing down the aeroplanes.
N.S.W.
WILL LAWSON.
Conflict.
Iho martial note is sounding with
Its .sudden, loud alarms,
■^ s . }} inter with its cohorts comes
\\ ith strident clash of arms
I o battle with the ranges, where
the crackling stems, frost-rimed,
1 roclaim the icy legions that
Are marching on behind.
And now the files of stalwart ash
, A,l d ranks of sassafras
1 orm up with tall compatriots •
In deep, columnar mass;
And in a solid phalanx stand
The silver-armored gums.
Repelling the invading Wind
As, warrior-like, he comes
lo fill the air with writhing limbs
And tortured, anguished sighs.
And shake the earth with crashing groans
As some proud monarch dies:
And awful and tumultuous
And stirring grows the fray,
lor mighty is the conflict when
The ranges are at bay.
And when the battle-chant is done,
And death has had its toll,
1 here s sighing in the ranges, and
There’s terror in the scroll
That tells of earth with hawthorn strewn
And gold and silver spears
I rom dreary poplars, dripping down
With Winter’s icy tears.
Rat dauntless ■ are the ranges, for
From out the stress and strife
The rowans and the ash will spring
With new and radiant life;
And Spring, like, peace beneficent,
Will clothe anew with gold
The Sighing gums, and heal the scars
With blessings manifold.
VICTORIA.
LUCY HILL.
Speech of Flowers.
On this evening, sweet and mild,
k-mdiy memory leads me back
io a garden-place gone wild
By a rough and bouldered track.
Fighting scrub and bracken dense,
►Still its rose-vines clambered high;
Bound it strayed a ruined fence —
Panels down and posts awry.
Red geraniums, stout of stem,
By a grass-grown pathway grew;
*\ : ho it was that planted them
Planted better than lie knew.
(lone to ruin, gone to wrack,
By the fence with rusted wires,
Stood a chimney, gaunt and black
M ith the smoke of many tires.
Tittle else there was to show
Of the home where sighed and smiled
One who, years and years ago,
Made that garden in the wild.
This 1 thought, with mating birds
Bound about me, thrush and dove:
“Pity ’t-is. no flower lias words
Wherewith to reveal its love.
“Then .yon blooms he loved to tend,
Swaying each and nodding each,
Would recall their vanished friend,
Praising him in perfumed speech.
“How he set them they would say,
.Nursed them, gave them drink and food;
Dow at dawn and twilight grey
Over them he came to brood.
“This and more yon flowers would tell,
Nodding, swaying in the wind,
Of the friend who loved them well,
If they could but speak their mind.”
Thus I thought, as there I stood
By the hour and scene beguiled—■
All enchanted by the mood
Of that garden place gone wild.
Set it was upon a hill
Worn by wind and washed by rain •
Undiscovered, blooming still.
There, I hope, its flowers remain.
N.s.w.
RODERIC QUINN.
The Plight.
Hny after day I saw them gathering
From all along the desolated tide,
Fleet-winged old kuakas on pinions tried
And strong young birds on still unproven
wing.
Day after day—and then no more of any-
thing
But empty air and ..ocean vast and wide,
I knowing only how my heart had cried
At their so seeming treason to the Spring.
Mere had they nested : on this tawny shore
They raced between the foam-lines on the
sand ;
Then flew to Arctic summer from the
South.
I heard them pass; heard, too, the waves
deplore
The disavowed and solitary land,
The sea-rime raw and' bitter in my
mouth.
MAOBIL AND.
DARIUS.
When I Have Passed.
When I have passed, if there should be
Some afterstate awaiting me,
I hope it will be near the sea.
I would be glad—and this I know—-
If I might come and I might go
Along the ways the seabirds blow.
Even as far as Behring’s Straits,
Or by Francisco’s Golden Gates
To where the wide-winged condor mates.
And southward still, to hear the roll
Of stately seas that know no goal,
Roaring and romping from the Pole;
|To drift through realms of air and scan
i The teeming underworlds of man
In China or in far Japan;
The moose upon the Arctic moss;
The glory of the Southern Cross;
The far-winged wand’ring albatross;
Freer than earth or air or sea,
Free of the stern necessity
Of every law that there might be,
j I would see ships of long ago
Come round the Horn in ice and snow,
Bearing away for Callao ;
And high of stern and slim of spar,
The laden galleons from afar
j With loot from all the seas that are;
Or waifs of ships, oldtime and lone,
Up from the far horizons blown.
Feeling a way through the Unknown.
All the romance and mystery
Of those old days made plain to me,
All that has been or that will be;
Watching the tides of time go past
Since man first ventured on the vast,
Down through the years unto this last.
Strangest of all things that are strange;
Ranging with all things as they range;
Changing with all things as they change l
QUEENSLAND.
FRANCIS KENNA.


■TV
F iFE
TL G>'* C
Ttprfc
tTtFKY
ft
mu
liyilir
n
ri
mi]
f 'iiJill
l)S
ftis
i
=v/
i.
XU
I
I
I
d
m
w
K(t,
m
i
m.
|L
I
'///
■{.
a
itit
m
mt 5 PJUN
j-e==i%ao
! OF BATTERY^IF
/I
/P
Can best be proved by the experience of
the user. It is the testimony of hundreds
of thousands of users that justifies
the name.
f
THE LONG-LIFE BATTERY
THERE IS A TYPE FOR EVERY CAR
Jlustralian Distributors:
N. S. WALES: Gibson, Battle & Co., Ltd., Hunt
Street, off Wentworth Avenue, Sydney.
QUEENSLAND: “Exide” Battery Service (Q.),
Ltd., 472-474 Queen Street, Brisbane.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA: Unbehaun & Johnstone,
Ltd., Rosina Street, Adelaide.
WEST AUSTRALIA: Unbehaun & Johnstone
(W.A.), Ltd., Radio House, 383-387 Murray
Street, Perth.
VICTORIA: A. P. Sutherland, Queen’s Bridge (2 Maffra Street), South Melbourne.
New Zealand Distributors:
Hope, Gibbons, Ltd., Wellington, Auckland and Christchurch.


■
mm.


The Bulletin
Vol. 48—No. 2478.
August 11, 1927.
THE VULTURES.
“A section of the Sydney City Council is still showing great anxiety to buy private coal lands at large prices although extensive Crown coal lands are available.”


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper.
“Australia for the White Man.”
Printed and published by William Macleod oi
Musgrave and McLeod Streets, Mosman, for The
Bulletin Newspaper Co., Ltd., at alia
Co., 214 George Street, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia.
Melbourne Office: 114-120 Flinders Street.
London Office: No. 1 Wardour Street (neai Picca-
dilly Circus), W.l.
PUBLISHED ONCE A WEEK.
TERMS TO SUBSCRIBERS
(In Advance only).
Punted to any address in Australasia, weekly.
n months, £1 -is.; 6 months, 12s. 6d.; 3 months, 7s.
To ANY ADDRESS Overseas: 12 months, £1 10s., 0
months, 15s. 6d.; 3 months, Bs.
Cheques, drafts, etc., which should be crossed, and
all Business Communications to be addressed to the
Manager.
Special Notice.
All correspondence to be addressed to Box 2521 8.8.,
G.P.0., Sydney. ,
Insufficiently stamped letters are liable to oe
refused. . , . , ~
The contents of this paper are copyright by the
publishers. The right to reproduce or translate any
part of the contents of this number is hereby expressly
reserved by the publishers.
The Editor will carefully read and, where practic-
able, acknowledge in the “Correspondence’ column
all contributions submitted, whether in the form of
Political, Social or other Articles, Verse, Short Tales
or Sketches (those dealing with Australian subjects
and not exceeding two columns in length, or, say,
3000 words, are specially acceptable). Paragraphs,
Letters or Newspaper Clippings. All communications
will, be regarded as strictly confidential.
The Bulletin will return all unsuitable M> S. when
the address is specified and stamps are enclosed. But
no MS. will be returned or preserved unless these
conditions are observed. When MS. is forwarded,
without stamps for return it will be understood that
the copy is to be destroyed ?/ not acceptable . 1 ei-
sonal applications for return of MS. cannot receive
attention. Further, The Bulletin desires those
sending MS. to distinctly understand that it is not
responsible for the preservation or transmission of MS.
To Amateurs in Black and White.
Anyone supplying to The Bulletin original
humorous or other topical drawings in line or wash,
of sufficient merit and interest and adapted for
direct reproduction, or any interesting photograph
illustrative of a current event will be paid for same
on acceptance. Any picture containing a good idea
but unfitted for direct reproduction —i.e., any picture
which has to be re-drawn—ivill be paid for as a
suggestion only. The conditions undev which such
artistic contributions will be received are those
applying to M.S.
To Travellers Abroad.
“The Bulletin’s” representative in London is
Li. St. C. Grondona, No. 1 Wardour Street
(near Piccadilly Circus), W.l. Copies of
‘•The Bulletin” can be obtained from him or
the bookstall in the Main Hall at Australia
House. Also from Messrs. Gordon and Gotch. 7-j-
-79 Farringdon Street, London, E.C.Jand H. Daw-
son and Sons, Cannon House, Breams Buildings,
London E.C.J,. : E. T. Hole, Ilolerth Satire Ser-
vice, J,6 Fleet ' Street, London, E.C.; “The British
Australian and New Zealander,” ’,11,-17 Australia
ID use, Strand, London, W.C.2 ; F. Algor, 58 Grace-
church Street, London, E.C.3.
South Africa.- —The Central News Agency, Cape-
town, Durban and Johannesburg; Dawson and Son,
Capetown and Johannesburg ; Havana House, Durban;
Rhodesia News Agency, Salisbury: Benoni News
Agency, Benoni; Handel House, Kimberley; and
others.
Canada. — G. S. Forsylli and Co., 'i’,l Hastings
Street, Vancouver, B.C.
U.S.A. — Chicago: J. Roland Kay Co., lot East
Erie Street, N. Michigan Boulevarde: Post Office
News Co., 33 West Monroe Street. Chicago. New
York: Brentano’s, sth Avenue and 27th Street, New
York City: Schultz News Agency. S.E. Corner C>th
Avenue and I,2nd Street, New York City; Hota ling’s
News Agency, 203 West J, Ist Street. New York City.
Washington: Liberty News Co.. Seattle. Washington :
Wheatley News Co., 701, Market Street, San Francisco ;
Wallace, The New Orleans News Man. 105 Royal
Street, New Orleans. La. : The Wide World News
Stand, sJ,lh South Main Street. Los Angeles , Cal.
Egypt. — Jacques, Horn and Co., the Colonial
Book and News Stores, Port Said, Egypt.
Hong Kong. —Brewer and Co., 096 Pedder Street,
Hong Kong.
China. —Brewer and Co., 31 Nanking Road,
Shanghai, China.
Penang, F.M.S. — K. Abdul Rahman , Bookstall.
Eastern and Oriental Hotel.
Ceylon.— T. L. De Silva, 39 Chatham Street,
Colombo; Plate, Ltd., Bristol Studios, Kandy.
Papua. —Whitten Bros.. Samarai and Port Moresby.
Fiji.' — A. Barker, Suva; Harry Gardiner, Metropole
Hairdressing Saloon. Suva.
Overseas Advertising Representatives.
London. — L. St. C. Grondona. No. 1 Wardour
Street (near Piccadilly Circus), ll'./.; Gordon and
Gotch. 75-79 Farringdon Street. London, E.C.J,.
U.S.A. — J. Roland Kay Co.. 161 East Erie Street,
X. Michigan Boulevarde. Chicago.
Postage Rates.
Single copies of The Bulletin (registered as a
newspaper): — Commonwealth, New Zealand and Fiji;
IDoz., Id. United Kingdom: .{os. to lOnz. . I&d.j each
additional !,oz.. Id. All Sea Route: 160 z., lid.
British Possessions and U.S.A.: l,oz. or part thereof,
Ul. Elsewhere, 20z.. Id.
ffie'Sfe'alleivTi.
THURSDAY, AUGUST 11, 1927.
THE TRIUMPHANT IMMIGRANT.
Tub latest, A.L.P. hullabaloo has made it
painfully evident that ‘‘moderate” Labor
politicians, with rare exceptions, think more
of their careers than of their convictions.
The Red section discovered this very early
in its campaign to capture the Australian
Labor movement for Moscow. Though
vastly outnumbered at congresses and con-
ferences, it found “moderate” Labor politi-
cians ready to yield point after point of the
old Labor policy for the sake of “solidarity”
—o.‘ solid salaries. Hence the abandon-
ment, of the pre-war objective, with its
inspiring reference to “the cultivation ot
an enlightened and self-reliant community,”
for the Muscovite “socialisation of industry,
production, distribution and exchange,” and
the inclusion in the Labor platform of “a
supreme economic council to control
nationalised industries,” which is not only
the policy but actually the phraseology of
Moscow. These and other easy victories
implanted a bitter contempt of “moderates”
in the Red breast, a feeling which has
greatly influenced the course of events in
N. S. Wales. When Premier Lang, in-
spired by A. C. Willis and Emil Voigt,
threw the “moderates” out of his Ministry,
the Reds confidently predicted that moder-
atism wouldn’t fight. And the Reds were
right. A show of fighting was made when
24 members of the Parliamentary Labor
party announced that Lang had been de-
posed in favor of Mutch, . having been
guilty of “treachery” and other offences,
that McKell, one of the travelling Mini-
sters, had refused to join the reconstructed
Cabinet, and that their proceedings, being
“constitutional,” had the warm support of
Federal Labor-leader Charlton. But within
two months McKell and 19 of the 24
members had returned to their allegiance to
the “traitor” and “dictator” and were
scrambling for party nominations, while
Charlton was understood to be hiding in
a hollow log. Of the five who didn’t
scramble, two retired from politics, a third
withdrew from a ballot in which he had no
chance and said he would stand as an
Independent, and the others may also stand
as Independents but are not sure.
In effect, the control of the N.S.W. Labor
party has been captured by a combination
of immigrants and Australians of the kind
that sat at the feet of Tom Mann. The
immigrants have naturally no feeling for
Australia (those with the greatest influence
among them are comparatively recent
arrivals); the others are so saturated with
internationalism that they have even gone
cold on the White Australia policy. With
unimportant exceptions the whole crew are
trade-union officials —secretaries, presidents,
treasurers, organisers and ordinary mem-
bers of councils or executives—and if they
have their way the members of Parliament
will be neariy all trade-union officials,
while their “election dope,” as they call it,
is compounded on the theory that only the
trade-union section matters. Their “leader”
is a useful figurehead, being a large man
with a loud voice and some aptitude for the
ignoble art of flattering the mob. His
idea of leadership, as he has repeatedly de-
clared, is to go to the trade-union bosses
and say, “You tell me what you want me to
do and I’ll do it.” When he ceases to do
as he is told his masters will sacrifice him
as coldly as he sacrificed his friend
McTiernan; but for the time being they
tolerate him even when he protests that
he loathes Communists, though the party
he “leads” is thick with them. For vote-
catching purposes likewise a few nomina-
tions have been distributed among tame
lawyers and civil servants, though, as
Minahan. M.L.A., bitterly remarks, wage-
payers. journalists, school-teachers and
other representatives of the middle class
have been pushed out.
One result of this “palace revolution” is
that the coal-mining organisation becomes
the leading political union. The A.W.U.,
for many years the predominant partner, has
had to make way for the Miners’ Federa-
tion; and thus the sceptre has passed from
the most Australian of unions, in composi-
f; 'in and soirit, to the least Australian.
With only six members in the Leg. Assem-
bly. which consists of 90 members, the
coalminers have a third of the representa-
tion in Lang’s Cabinet, and three of their
four Ministers are immigrants. Whether
the A.W.U. should accept defeat, and work
to make it permanent by voting for the
conquerors, or withdraw its support and let
“the Pommy party” smash itself, is a ques-
tion that is worrying thousands of good
Australians in Donald Macdoneli/s old
union.
THE WORST SMELL IN SYDNEY.
Plain speech is steadily becoming plainer
at meetings of Sydney City Council, where
a Labor majority runs the show. The
shindies are all of one type; that is to say.
they are about queer financial transactions,
or proposed transactions. One 'concerned
the purchase of a flock of Italian motor-
cars in preference to British goods. On that
occasion an excited alderman declared that
he “had a perfect right to look after the
interests of his friend” (he didn’t say
“accomplice”) who was in the business —
Italian car business apparently. 111-feeling
arose over the proposal to spend £2200 of
municipal money for an electric sub-station
site when the council’s own expert urgently
recommended one available at £450. Various
things have been said about land trans-
actions. There was also confusion over
the matter of a municipally-owned pub
which was to let, and for which only a
single very modest tender was received,
one explanation offered being that other
possible tenderers had been unfortunately
deceived as to the date when the competi-
tion closed. Of pending or contemporary
rackets a minor one has reference to a pro-
posal to pay £lOOO or so more than the
lowest price available for certain bricks,
without any attempt being made to prove
that dear bricks are better than cheap ones,
or even that they may not be worse.
* :1c * *
But the really herculean effort, and the
longest-continued effort, is over the pro-
posed purchase of a municipal coalmine;
lately two municipal coalmines have been
urged. It isn’t always the same mine; in
fact, almost any one seems acceptable. It
has never up to now been a concern con-
taining coal of any special quality. It has
really never been a mine at all—only a
show or a deposit. Nobody has demon-
strated that the municipality, placing its
dependence on one or two pits of its own.
would be any less liable to have its sup-
plies stopped by industrial troubles than
if it was.free to.browse around for.supplies
among the 140-odd mines of the State. It
is understood in a fairly definite way that
municipal coal will cost more than the fuel
which is bought from private sources does
now. The example of the Railway Depart-
ment’s mine at Lithgow is hardly a case in
point, for the department has its own trains
with which to shift the product about at a
minimum of cost. And the departmental
mine is no overwhelming success, any-
how. Originated by a Labor Government
in 1912 to serve Government purposes in
general, it got to work in 1916. stopped in
1.917, and resumed as a purely railway ven-
ture in 1921. In 192-1-25, where the avail-
able figures leave off, it produced 263,538
tons of fuel, and as the railways and tram-
ways used 1,263,176 tons in the same year
for loco purposes alone, the result doesn’t
amount to much. Judging by the railways
record, a good many years will pass and a
good many aldermen will be dead before
the Sydney municipal colliery exercises any
influence on the situation, but if they die
in comfortable circumstances it will miti-
gate the world-’"’de sornr
s* * 4 *>
Though the coal propositions which have
been mooted vary materially, they have
one feature in common. They are all dashed
expensive. One of the pair of shows (not
developed and ('quipped mines) now under
consideration is to cost £65,000, and even
if the Corporation buys it, the Corporation
apparently won’t own it, but will be liable
for rent and royalties, just as if it had
never parted with an immense sum of
money. As a big side-issue, it is alleged,
but not by Labor aldermen, that the coal
on the council’s or the State’s own land
at Bunnerong, close at hand, is probably as
good as that on the £65,000 show at Douglas
Park, 45 miles distant. Also there was pro-
duced a letter from the Mines Department
stating that it had coal land of its own to
offer at Douglas Park (12,800 acres were men-
tioned), that the Government’s terms were
the usual moderate rent of 2s. per acre per
annum (£1280) and 6d. per ton royalty and
that when the royalty reached £l2BO (equal
to an annual output of 51,300 tons) the rent
would cease. This prospect of saving
£65,000 evoked so little enthusiasm that a
non-Labor alderman spoke to the point, and
a very sharp one: —
“Why arc you opposing Bunnerong?. Is
it because it is not owned by a private
syndicate and because there will be no com-
mission to be received from it V There are
thousands of acres of coal-bearing property
to be had from the State Government. Why
will you not consider this property instead
of privately-owned property? I again ask,
is it because there will be no commission
on beh "lf land leased from the State
Government?”
The Labor majority didn’t answer; as usual,
it adjourned the meeting without offering
either defence or explanation.
PLAIN ENGLISH.
A Traveller Returned.
Ted Grayndler, secretary of the A.W.U.,
came back recently from America. He
visited the place with the industrial mission
sent thither by the Federal Government to
inquire into American industrial methods
and their applicability to Australian con-
ditions; and he has got in early with his
personal views. Chief of these is that piece-
work is not general in America, or popular
with the American Federation of Labor,
which is indeed against it, save in cases
where it is specially applicable or adapt-
able to an industry; and even in these cases
it is only consented to when employees
have a voice with the management in fixing
the piece rates.
The point of supreme importance, passed
over by the secretary of the A.W.U. a
union, by the way. greatly given to piece-
work—is that, in America, industry sharply
distinguishes between the skilled worker,
who is often a combination of artist and
professional man, and the unskilled toiler.
The American Labor leaders will have none
of the “class-consciousness” which comes
out of the dark places of Europe; the
class-consciousness they keep in mind is
that the shovel-wielder or the hod-carrier
isn’t the same as a highly skilled craftsman,
and they are on the watch all the time
to prevent them being lumped in a “class”
worthy of the same dead-level wage. That
is why they admit piece-work in the case of
the work that requires skill, and consent, in
the same breath, to the daily or weekly
wage-plug system alongside it.
There is another point which Mr.
Grayxdler has touched on more happily:
he says that Australians should strive to
emulate the Americans in supporting their
home markets. In spite of high tariffs and
keen propaganda, there is still a large pro-'
portion of Australia’s inhabitants who are
willing to purchase any rubbish, and to dis-
card any high-class goods, so long as the
first is undoubtedly imported and the latter
offered as Australian-made. If the last
remnant of that pitiful snobbery were
wiped out, as it has been in America long
since, there would be, as Mr. Grayndler
says, far less unemployment.
Constructive Unionism.
N even were the danger signals more cle.nl>
set than in the case ol Mt. Morgan. iR
suspicion and bluster and sheer don t-gn e-
a-damnness marked the conduct ot the
union bosses right, up to the end. s i
further demands were in even as the in-
evitable arrived. Rarely, on the othei ham .
has a'big co.. tried so hard to preserve an
industry. The price of copper slid steadily
down and loss followed loss, yet the share-
holders stood by the directors year alter
year as they sought for a way out.
What the unions refused to see was t hat
there is a limit to the demands an industry
will bear. Arbitration Courts and tribunals
may make orders for something beyond
that; but not all the Arbitration Courts and
tribunals in the world can enable tin
employer to pay 12s. when he has got onl>
10s. In his own case, the miner knows this
perfectly well. He knows that, it Ins wife
hires a girl to help with the house and
the children, the mere fact that a Court
puts her wages up doesn't make it possible
for him to pay those wages.
They have been through all this in the
United States, and have learned their les-
sons. One of the greatest of Sams
unions—the Amalgamated Clothing-work ei
Union—has come to earth and instead ot
wasting its breath, fighting for things that
don’t matter, goes after the essentials:—
“Economics are its strong point.. It lias
a research department under Dr. Leo Wol-
man, an economist, who served as dimf ot
the Section of Production Statistics on the
FS. War Industrial Board. He is assisted
by a staff of experts. According to its
president, Sidnky Hillman, the Amalga-
mated is out to obtain the best conditions
it. can for its members —piece-work is a
basis —but it considers that the tune, lias
passed when demands can be made irrespec-
tive of the capacity of the industry to meet
them. Demands made by a branch or sec-
tion are handed over to the research depart-
ment. and if they are found to -be greater
than the industry can bear they arc modified
or dropped. Even wage reductions would be
accepted if conditions in the industry made
this necessary."
It is too much to believe that the Amal-
gamated. always acts up to its principles,
but. the basis is right. Some of the same
“realism.” as Hillman calls it. would have
prolonged the life of Westralia’s goldmining
industry; it would have saved Mt. Morgan:
and nothing else will save Mt. Lvell and
Broken Hill presently.
As for the “secondary” or manufacturing
industries, we can carry on gaily just as
long as we can and do borrow to pay for
imports. Any household can pay high
wages for its help and its provisions so long
as it can push half or quarter of its bills
into next year. It is the- wage-earner, with
nothing to fall back upon, who is going to
have the very devil of a time when that
next year comes.
o
An Experiment in Shipping.
Dear Bulletin, —The main argument of
the advocates of the Australian Common-
wealth Shipping Line, that it is a necessary
weapon to compel privately-owned cos. to
restrain their ardor in raising fares and
freights, is so good that it might be used
to great advantage in another direction.
Let one of the “Bay” boats be declared
“open shop,” a scale of wages for every man
employed on her being fixed by the manage-
ment. Let the number of men carried be
strictly limited to the requirements. Con-
ditions of labor, working hours, scale of
provisions, etc., to be also fixed by the
management and a rule to be inserted in
the articles that “Any person committing
any wilful act to the detriment of the earn-
ing power of this vessel may be fined by
the manager a part or the whole of his
earnings.” After 12 months’ trial, a com-
parison could be made with the other
vessels of the Line and adjustments effected
accordingly.
If the Line is required to ensure fair and
reasonable treatment by the Shipping Com-
bine, surely the “open shop” ship is also
required to ensure the public of Australia,
who are losing money every day over the
Australian Commonwealth Line, a fair deal
from the Maritime Unions—Yours, etc.,
Bows.
Small Sister Perks Up.
With a considerable streak of something
that looks like luck, and by shutting down
on borrowing during the year and paring
expenditure to the bone, Treasurer Lyons.
of Tasmania, has managed to produce a
surplus of £185,000. This is a record for the
State; there has never before been such a
thing since the establishment of respon-
sible government. And there was never
more urgent need of it. In fact, any
materially smaller balance of receipts over
expenditure would have just about settled
Small Sister’s prospects of continuing as a
separate State.
FA-en as matters stand, Lyons hastens to
warn Parliament that they are by no means
out of the wood, for the rigid economy im-
posed by the State’s precarious position,
pending the arrival of the Commonwealth s
special grant of £368,999. has produced such
an exodus of taxpayers that there is
possibility of next year’s revenue failing to
meet, the expenditure by more. than the
amount of this year’s surplus. Certainly
the Treasury cannot expect to receive any;
thing like this year’s 100 p.c. increased
revenue from death duties—£lsl,ooo m
1927; £74,000 in 1926—and there is unlikely
to be another £43,000 jump in stamp (mostly
Tattersall) duties. So the , islanders • will


have to exercise extreme care and rigid
economy for a good while yet.
Asked by Nationalist ex-Premier Lei
and others whether it would not have been
sounder business to continue borrowing in
order to make work and so prevent the
exodus of population, Lyons replied that
so much of this unsound business had been
indulged in by past Governments that the
utmost limit of safety had been reached,
the interest bill having grown out of all
reasonable proportion to the revenue-pro-
ducing capacity of the community. The
State was consequently accumulating deficits
every year. Nationalist Treasurers had
temporarily got rid of these deficits by the
simple and dishonest plan of adding them
to the Public Debt, which of course meant,
in effect, that the unfortunate country was
being set the impossible task of winning
to prosperity by borrowing money to meet
the interest bill plus current expenses. It
was the sanest outburst on the subject that
has proceeded from any State Premier for
years past.
The Secret Woman.
I’he other day an unhappy hag was con-
victed in Sydney, and fined £lO. for carry-
ing on a “private hospital” without a license
from the Board of Health. Police evidence
showed that the beldame’s unauthorised
establishment was equipped with an operat-
ing table and a set of surgical instruments,
mostly gynecological. The only visible
patients were a couple of young women
"convalescents.” The discovery was made
as the result of a police visit “in connection
with another case.” The lady was liable to
some months’ gaol, of course, if the fine
hadn’t been paid. -But a tenner is a trifle
to those of her profession. It represents the
minimum fee for one operation—a fee ex-
tracted from some scared girl and the boy
behind her who show no signs of being
able to rake up more at the last extremity.
Australia, which makes so much fuss in
public about its shortage of population, has
of late years practically committed itself
into septic hands of such “private
hospitals.” The great population centres
are honeycombed with places of the kind
which, under the guise of “nursing homes”
and the like, exist only for the profit to be
made in the practice of abortion. The
uninitiated may be puzzled as to how these
unregistered establishments carry on with-
out interference. Apart from the question
of bought immunity, it may be explained
by the fact that most of them have an
understanding of some sort with a qualified
medical practitioner. Sometimes the opera-
tion is performed by the doctor. More
often the “matron” does it. Later the
doctor is called in to attend a young woman
who has come in for a rest cure, and
developed surprising and quite unexpected
symptoms. If she dies, his certificate is
never questioned unless someone “squeaks”
or the circumstances are too much over the
lence.
Fines of £lO, with the alternative of a
month or two in gaol, seem an utterly in-
adequate method of dealing with a dreadful
evil.
*
Should Millions of Sheep Die?
"Plain Bill": The only practicable insur-
ance against loss is the provision of trans-
port facilities for either stock or fodder.
Conservation of fodder is impracticable in
ihe vast sheep areas of Australia.
I have been over 35 years in Southern
and Central-Western Queensland and know
lrom experience that when drought is
affecting one area there is always relief to
be obtained in some other portion of the
State. How to shift the stock is the pro-
blem. Roads are useless. Motor transport
is useful for short distances, but expensive.
Fast railway transport is the only method;
but under the present conditions the dis-
tances to be travelled are about twice what
they should be.
A line built from Bourkc to Cunnamulla
(150 miles), Cunnamulla to Charleville (120
miles, already built) and Charleville to
Tarnbo and Blackall (180 miles) would
give an almost direct north and south line
of 450 miles, passing through the centre
of some of the finest sheep land in Aus-
tralia. It is mostly downs country, favor-
able to cheap railway construction and light
for haulage. This route is the main artery
I'rom north to south—all stock and motor
traffic use these roads. It is also the route
of aerial traffic from Cloncurry to the
•South.
At a conservative estimate the loss of
stock and wool during the present drought
would be about £10,000,000. The Federal
Government should do something to pre-
vent this waste of national wealth. An
agreement might be fixed up with the State
Governments for the Federal authorities to
finance the building of the lines I suggest,
the States to pay, say, 10 to 25 per cent!
of the rents collected on properties bene-
fited by the railway as a sinking fund to
pay off the cost of construction.
The Queensland Government has for
some years (at election times, anyhow)
been building the section between Long-
reach and Winton North. These sections
completed, there would be a fairly straight
stretch of line through the best sheep-
grazing country in Q., which would obviate
the necessity of taking stock in to the
coastal areas and out again when trucking
from north to south. It would also link
up at Blackall. Winton and Charleville or
Westgate with western sections already built.
Also it w'ould serve as an outlet for fat
stock to southern markets.
Taxation and Industry.
George Rutherford Brown, a W.A. tailor,
asked the Westralian Supreme Court to
declare that a large profit made upon a land
deal was an increase of canital rather than
income, and therefore not subject to taxa-
tion. The Court obliged him,. and the
result is calculated to give much heart-
burning to some of Australia’s most useful
taxpayers.
Brown bought land in Murray-street for
£7830, thinking that certain proposed re-
sumptions would give him the best position
in the city for his business. Finding the
land was likely to be resumed, he resold in
a year’s time for £25,500; and it is upon the
substantial profit of that deal that he is not
to be taxed. Seeing that, on account of the
enhanced value of land in the vicinity, he
would probably have to pay away all his
profits to secure a similar site, there is some
sort of justification for the exemption. But
the treatment of the Australian manufac-
turer who re-invests his largely-proble-
matical profits in business of much more
profit to the Commonwealth stands in start-
ling contrast to this. In scores of developing
industries in Australia the profits or pro-
blematical profits of the chief shareholders
are going back into the business to provide
for extensions which have an immediate
result in new employment, yet the share-
holders concerned are not let off a penny-
piece in taxation upon the money they have
not actually drawn.
One instance can be taken as an example
of many— Hadfield’s, the engineering people.
The managing director, whose capital was
the co.’s capital to begin with, has year after
year sunk his profits in the enterprise, draw-
ing nothing but his working salary, yet he
has had to pay income-tax on .all the profits
he has never seen and which indeed he may
never see.
Apparently it is possible for taxation on
the profits made by the land speculators to
be avoided; but the people who really
increase the community assets have.to pay.
There should be an overhaul of the regu-
lations.
4
The Waste of Workmen’s Time.
Representatives of the Health Depart-
ments of the various States met in con-
ference at Melbourne in May at the invi-
tation of the Prime Minister to discuss the
problems of industrial hygiene. Among the
subjects considered were the occurrence of
accidents in industrial undertakings and the
determination of hygienic standards in fac-
tories.
As illustrating the enormous waste from
industrial accidents, it was reported that in
each of the six years 1919 to 1924 no less
than 14 per cent, of the 50,000 employees
of the N. S. Wales Railways and Tramways
sustained injuries which threw them off
duty for an average of 14 days. The con-
ference recommended that the Governments
should require the notification of every acci-
dent causing loss of life or incapacity for
more than 24 hours. Study will reveal
which are due to faulty apparatus and
which to negligence.
Under existing acts regulations are laid
down'for the protection of machinery and
so forth. Negligence, however, it is de-
clared, is a much more potent cause of
trouble than defective plant, But the fact
that an employee is negligent does not
absolve the employer. His duty is to pro-
tect the employee against his own trans-
gressions. The man who can be at the
highest point of watchfulness every moment
of his eight hours has not yet been bora.
The mind will wander. A story is told of a
very devout man who w T as challenged by
another devout but less confident man to
keep his mind on the rails even during his
prayers. He was to make a frank con-
fession—and he was astonished at what he
had to confess. The man who invented the
expression “fool-proof” did a bad turn for
the worker. He who has to be protected is
not by any means always a fool; or if he is
a fool he is not a bad fool. He is very often
a servant so keen that his mind runs on to
the next job—or wonders whether the last
one couldn’t have been done better.
The determination of hygienic standards
is of great importance, too. Measures to
safeguard the health of the worker must
be taken in the dark, or probably will not.
be taken at all, unless all possible infor-
mation is collected in regard to the hazards
to which he is exposed. The resolution of
the conference, affirming the need of such a
determination, is really an attempt to secure
collaboration between isolated workers in
this field of national service.
4
Hands Across the Sea.
Dear Bulletin,— The United States may
be our very good friend; but it has a
mighty queer way of showing its friendship.
And in this respect it is a sticker. It
objects in the first place to the presence of
any European Power in North, Central or
South America, and it began to object and
to strike a proprietary attitude very early.
It was in 1823. when the republic possessed
only about 8£ million white inhabitants,
that President Monroe issued his famous
declaration against any more European
colonisation, even if it was in the remotest
part of South America, and even if South
America was agreeable.
Old tales of the Revolutionary War
largely dealing with the alleged atrocities
of German soldiers hired by George 111
and Co., furnished it with its most popular
pabulum during many years. When Dickens
crossed the Atlantic over 80 years ago he
found the anti-British feeling in full blast,
and there is no particular cause to believe
that it has changed much since. Certainly
in time of trouble there is always in the
republic someone with a “chain of news-
papers,” or several persons with various
chains, to blow the fire. During the Great
War the blowing was assiduous, and it
is difficult to say what might have happened
if the bedevilled Hun had avoided his
policy of unlimited destruction at sea.
The naval “disarmament” scheme which
President Coolidge endeavored to force on
J. Bull and others has been described as a
proof of friendship. But once more it is
a queer way of showing friendship. The
position is that Great Britain must have
ships to protect the thousands of miles of
sea routes on which it depends for almost
everything it eats, and even in the course
of the bitterest naval struggle a great pro-
portion of its warships must be scattered
on these errands and be out of the fighting
zone. The U.S., being self-supporting and
having no sea routes- which must be pro-
tected, can reckon all its ships a lighting
force, which makes some difference. Its
demand was for equality with Britain
in sea force, but it aimed at a fair abun-
dance of huge vessels of the formidable
fighting type, and a limitation of the
smaller craft which are chiefly used in war
time for escort work—for British escort
work, that is—in the campaign against
famine. When Britain refused to rush at
this curious bargain the expressions used by
some of the IJ.S. “chains of newspapers”
almost sounded like an ultimatum.
I earnestly desire U.S. friendship; and I
should like to be much surer than I am
that we really have it.—Yours, etc., Henry
Horsecollar.
4
The Recital.
“Blum”: All around, as far as the eye can
reach, are faces wearing a rapt and pained
expression. They are attached to the
bodies of young men and maidens who are
being taught how to fiddle or play the piano
or agitate the vocal cords. Interspersed
with these, like punctuation marks in an
array of solemn sentences, are the faces of
oldsters, dragged there by art-bitten off-
spring or the knowledge that Lady Squimp-
eagle has bought tickets. One waits. The
five-to-eighters slink in apprehensively, but
sink into their seats with self-possession
unimpaired. The eight-o’dockers, rigid
souls, glare round with an air of superiority
at the collection of idiots that came too
early. All gaze with interest at certain re-
served seats, not j r et occupied, and picture
the awful fate of those who may seek to
occupy them. Feverish whispers are bandied
about concerning a male performer who just
simply stopped and glared at the late-
comers all the way up the aisle. And then
went away to his dressing-room and didn’t
come out for ten minutes!
It is five past eight, and the tension
has increased. The talk now is in staccato
whispers. Once there was a lady who was
in the middle of her most magnificent
cadenza when the door opened and a man
came in. She stayed in a swoon for 15
minutes.
Ten minutes past eight. The place is a
bit chillier than it was. Bulstrode leans
over to Jones and tells him a little story he
heard in the Carlton bar that midday.
Jones, a quick thinker and good adaptor,
bowdlerises the episode and retails it to
Mrs. J., who is glad of anything to laugh
at. Mrs. J. passes it along to daughter Joan,
a little flatter than it left Jones, and Joan,
who takes after dad, makes a swift guess at
the original and is troubled all the rest of
the evening with giggles. All over the place
folk are unbending a little. Twenty past
eignt comes with everybody looking quite
happy, and—: —
Blankyblonkyvitch slowly paces forward,
preluded by a man who does not know how
to open a grand piano and thinks that
people who make a living out of the darned
things love to sit on a little stool uphol-
stered in blue satin, with no back, and little
towel-rails at the sides, and when somebody
else has got the lid up and folded back the
flap and replaced the stool with a good
plain chair—well, when all these things have
been accomplished and this Blankyblonky-
vitch man shoves his mop of blue-black
hair into the auditorium, he gets exactly
the same reception as would be given to
George Robey or Charlie Chaplin or any
of those gay boys who get hundreds of
pounds a week for flourishing a baggy um-
brella or wearing very badly-fitting trousers.
Naturally, this annoys Blankyblonk,
and he looks mildly indignant. The spec-
tacle of 3000 amiable idiots beaming at
him when he is just about to tear the entrails
out of a little thing by Pillicoddy is enough
to cause any virtuoso a pang. But he shrugs
his shoulders. Virtuosos must have their vita-
mines the same as any one else, and this
is the day’s work. He bows his shaggy
mane and does the deed.
And when he has wallowed in gruesome-
ness and made sounds that move even him-
self to tears, the people start clapping as
if C. Chaplin had just thrown a pie at
someone. It is disgusting! What can one
do with such pigs? Nothing! At one stage,
when the gifted one plays something that
50 per cent, of the audience have
heard before, and when therefore they
beam as delightedly as if Chaplin
had thrown two pies, though the
thing was intended by both composer
and executant to plunge the world into
profound gloom, he gives way to utter
despair and in a frenzy dashes to his
piano and emits something that he
remembers vaguely as having once been
a popular tune. After that his doom is
sealed. He totters and begins unconsciously
to reflect .3000 beaming smiles. In this
condition, if a pianist, he is apt to dash off
the Tausig arrangement of Schubert's
notion of a military march. If a violinist
or 'cellist, he plays the ‘‘Dying Swan.” And
if he sings he is as like as not to break into
“The Bandolero.”
Remorse, of course, supervenes and that’s
why they all look so sad.
♦
A Glass of Wine!
Adelaide is getting ready to open the
annual "Wine Week” organised by the
Federal Viticultural Council, and held in
rotation in the three great wine-producing
States. The festival opens on August 29.
and the Council itself starts the next day
to discuss many matters of importance to
the trade, including those connected with
the expansion of export.
One Vital matter in this regard is the
adoption of a series of standard names. The
Australian use of such descriptions as
“Port” and “Sherry” is now taboo in
Europe. Within the Commonwealth the
old names are being clung to for the most
part, and a chance to educate the public
along a line that must be taken some day
is being wasted.
True, one South Australian firm has taken
to labelling its wines with new names. But,
these are not locational names —a matter of
much importance in wine identification,
with its subsequent creation of a demand for
that particular district’s products; they arc
coined words, denoting nothing more than
a general type. The great reputation of
French and Spanish wines is very largely
built on the fact that their names indicate,
not only the country of their origin, but
the small area whose special soil and
methods of treatment give them their in-
dividual quality. Here in Australia we
have nothing like that to individualise our
products. The job will be a big one. The
wine-making States produce varieties of all
the standard types, and these varieties differ
in each State, as they do in each vineyard.
The day is coming when they will all have
to be localised and tabbed, instead of be-
ing sold indiscriminately as claret, chablis,
port, and so on.
♦ — :
Calvin Coolidge, President of the U.S.A.,
says he “doesn’t choose” to be a candidate
for office in 1928. The Press is wondering
why. Disappointment at the failure of the
Naval Limitation Conference and Unc.
Sam’s prejudice against third terms are tin-
favored explanations. As the Yanks would
say in other circumstances, it is all bunk.
Coolidge may not be a hundred per cent,
dud, but he gets nearer it than any other
American President of recent times. The
Big Interests behind the Republican machine
which supplies the “slush” know it and they
know that large masses of the electors know
it. The politically wise in the U.S. have
known , for many months past that “Silent
Cal.” was to be dropped. Coolidge’s pre-
judice against a third term isn’t nearly so
strong as the prejudice against Coolidge as
a candidate.
❖ -
Next school year, Ouyen, in the Victorian
mallee, will watch an interesting experi-
ment. Eight schools within a 20-mile
radius are to be closed and their pupils
carried by State ’buses to a higher ele-
mentary school in the town. The scheme
will add £2OOO p.a. to the cost of the central
school, but the saving on the others is
expected to be more than that. Also the
’buses—seven of them—will do ordinary
traffic jobs between their cargoes of kid. The
department hopes to thus give better edu-
cation to country children and strike a blow
for our old friend Decentralisation.
<►
“Si Anu”: At last the Singapore authorities
have come down hard on the Bolshies of
the film who represent white civilisation as
an endless procession of crooks, asses and
adulterers. Only people who have lived
surrounded by the colored races can appre-
ciate the effect on the native mind of this
idiotic vilifying of the tuan and the sahib.
The Londoner can take the lurid film ver-
sion of the manners of his own society with
a pinch of salt. The Malay, Kling or
Chinaman bolts it whole. He begins to
belieA'e that Western life is a perpetual
succession of train derailments, mail hold-
ups, kidnapping of girls and shooting of
business rivals. Which helps to explain
why the attitude of the native to the white
man and the white man’s rule is not what it
was.
*
The craze for reconstructing Sydney grows
by what it feeds on. It is proposed to
demolish the Queen Victoria Markets and
the biggest bank premises in George-street
and raze all the buildings on one side of
York-street. When that’s done, and St.
Andrew’s Cathedral is shifted to the Mint
site in Macquarie-street, there’s going to be
a circular underground railway that will
wander through the back parts of about 19
suburbs, all of which have a Government
tram service at present. Presently some-
thing will have to be done about St. Mary’s
Cathedral, which is nearly finished and
ought to be shifted somewhere.


vm Vl U/
01
m
mmm
L
$
E
L
U
I//
w mnrutri
I
E
3C
r
Paid-up Capital, £^22,100.
The Hotel oj the Commonwealth, Sydney.
Time
of Comioot
NOT accidentally has “The Australia’
gained a name that is world-famous.
It remains but for you yourself 10 enjoy
the proffered luxury and comfort, the
cuisine, the service, the atmosphere.
Cable, wireless and telegraphic address:
“Austraotel, Sydney.”
POLITICAL
POINTS
The Sydney Labor selection ballots did not
quite fulfil the anticipations of the new
imported bosses; there was a noticeable
lack of enthusiasm for candidates like Donald
Grant. But the anti-Langites were routed,
ns was predicted and to some extent pro-
vided for. McKell, sometime Minister of
Justice, saved himself in Redfern by a
whining surrender to Langism at the eleventh
hour, and ex-Col. Sec. Lazzarini. whose be-
havior was almost as abject, scraped in at
Marrickville by seven votes. But Mutch,
lately Minister of Education, was beaten in
Botany, Fitzgerald (Local Government) in
Leichhardt, O’Halloran in Randwick, Holds-
worth in King and Alldis (who fell between
two stools) in Woollahra, while at the time
of writing Gann (Health) was apparently
doomed in Lakemba and Dr. Evatt in Bal-
main. Evatt two years ago polled 14.733
first-preference votes for Balmain and carried
another Labor man in with him, thereby, in
a sense, giving Lang his Parliamentary
majority. In Saturday’s ballot or swindle
there were not 700 votes.
By more or less ingenious devices many
A.W.U. supporters of the Mutchites were
debarred from voting in the Sydney selection
ballots. Mutch scrutineers were violently
assaulted, and an attempt was made to prig
a ballot-box. There are also circumstantial
stories of faked voting-lists, bribery and
impersonation, just as there used to be be-
fore “the ‘movement’ was cleaned up.” In
the result, as in 1917, those who profess
to speak for N.S.W. Labor have blown out
its brains.
It used to be one of the inexorable rules
of the Labor party that no money might
be spent on selection ballots. But in Sydney
during the past month the Labor Daily has
had as much as a page of selection candi-
dates’ advts. So the man with the run of a
bank account or a union’s funds gets a fine
start.
A deputation introduced by Dr. Nott,
M.H.R., beset Prime Minister Bruce at
Townsville, and asked that the .Common-
wealth should construct and work 950 miles
of railway from Bourke (N.S.W.) to Camoo-
weal (North-West Queensland), assuring
him that it would be “a profitable invest-
ment.” A sterner man might have said that
he had enough railway troubles of his own,
but Bruce mildly undertook to give the
matter consideration and to receive a “repre-
sentative deputation” about it at Brisbane.
If his visitors had asked for a general mas-
sacre the ineffably-bland gentleman would
have said the same.
Greedy State employees are becoming dis-
appointed with Vic. Labojr Government be-
cause it shows a disposition to be more just
than generous. Tunnecliffe turned down a
THE SUICIDE CLUB.
“The Vie. Hogan Government is coquetting with the ex-police strikers who are demanding rein-
statement. Chief Secretary Prendergast states that there is a public opinion on the question which
cannot be ignored.”
EX-POLICE STRIKER: “I did my job in—come inside and do in yours!”
request by Wonthaggi coalminers for free
railway passes for holiday trips; as he
bluntly told them, he could not see why
they should get privileges denied to coalies in
private employment. At the other end of the
city Treasurer Hogan regards many things
as more urgent than the claims of men who
work 38 hours a week for fairly good pay.
That persistent Federal Minister George
Pearce is abroad for the third time since
the war, and has stated that he is sur-
prised that the advantages of Australia
don’t attract more immigrants. If George
is surprised The Bulletin is more sur-
prised at him for being surprised. It isn’t
much of an evidence that the country has
plenty of land for settlers when every State
lias been raising money that it may buy
back land for settlers, and at the same time
the imports list is a sign that Australia would
rather employ outside workers than inside
ones. By the blessing of Providence the
Commonwealth gains about 40,000 immi-
grants per annum, and it is much to the
credit of Providence that it does.
M. F. Troy, the Westralian Minister of
Lands, announces that £4,080,000 of good
loan money has been spent on Mitchell’s
group settlements; also that “approximately
500 locations” are to be abandoned owing
to “disappointing results.” Which means
that at least three-quarters of a million will
have to be written off as a dead loss, though
Troy’s Government is not to blame, and
that is only a beginning. It is refreshing
to turn from this dreary fiasco to the pas-
toral settlement of abandoned goldfields,
which started about the same time. That
impressive conquest of the waste lands will
result in the production of a great deal
more wealth than can ever be extracted from
the group settlements, and it hasn’t cost the
Government a penny.
The sanguine Prime Minister, who is on
a talking expedition in Queensland, has been
telling his audiences how “it is gradually
permeating the minds' of working men
that as a result of favorable conditions and
high wages, secured by all manner of means,
the cost of living is forced up, but there is
no expansion of industry, and unemployment
is becoming more rife, and the worker is
worse off than before.” In less stilted
phrase, if the toiler gets 10s. instead of
ss. for making so much sausage, the sausage
costs ss. more, and if this affluence leads him
to do less work, it may easily cost 6s. or
7s. 6d. more, in addition to which there is
less sausage.
P. J. Minahan’s break with N-.S.W.
Labor means much more than the loss of a
party unit. He was a liberal contributor
to election funds, and Lang owes the exist-
ence of his daily mouthpiece in no small
measure to Minahan’s efforts. Little Paddy
was the force behind the short-lived Daily
Mail, which subsequently became the
Labou Dally.
N.S.W. rural industry, for which Com-
missioner "Piddo” ordered a basic wage
lately, saying that he would inquire some
other time whether it was practicable or not,
employed 2200 fewer people in 1026 than the
year before, if the local statistician s calcu-
lations are correct. “Piddo” selected the
wrong time for his adventure.
Maurice Blackburn's quixotry in standing
down for Prendergast when Vic. Labor Mini-
sters were being elected helped neither party
nor State. Prendergast is too old for his 30b ;
it would be better for Hogan’s Government
if he had a sinecure instead of the heavy
administrative work of the Chief bee. s
Department. He might have been allotted
Forests, and Beckett could have been
Chief Sec. as well as Health Minister, or
Beckett could have taken Electricity and
Tunnecliffe the Chief Sec.’s as well as Kail-
ways. Slater would have been well placed
as Minister for Agriculture and Markets if
Blackburn had been in the team as Law
Minister. As it is. Slater has Law as well
as Agriculture, and Hogan has Markets as
well as being, Premier and Treasurer.
An exciting loan competition prevails in
N.S.W., where the Commonwealth has been
offering s:f per cent. The State is taking
all it can get at 51. and Sydney City Council
has raised its bid to 5:{ —it also keeps an
open shop. When all the works to which the
Council lias already committed itself are
finished it will owe at least £25,000,000, if
it is able to raise that much. The latest
official estimate is that the population of
Sydney and suburbs increased by 31,120
during 1026. and that of the rest of the
State by 18,200. For 20 years or so the popu-
lation of the city proper continuously de-
clined through people moving into the
suburbs and houses giving place to ware-
houses and offices. In 1026, however, when
inhabitants crowded in so as to be eligible
for municipal jobs, there was an estimated
increase of 1530, and slumminess flourished.
Australia’s public estate is understood to
be a great national asset, and it ought to
be, as 91 per cent, of the soil is wholly the
property of “the Crown,” and it has a lien
on another three per cent, for unpaid instal-
ments. Six per cent, is really private pro-
perty. So it is interesting to note that in
the eight years to June, 1926, the States
borrowed and spent on the re-purchase of
bits of private property and the planting
of people thereon rather over 69 million
pounds, while the land revenue (sales and
rentals) of the six Lands Departments is
given as only 37 millions for-the same period.
The interest payable on settlement loans is
now just about equal to the entire revenue
of the six Lands Departments.
Country members are opposing Vic. Gov-
ernment’s proposal to increase the cut Mel-
bourne gets out of motor registration fees,
but for once the bloated city has a case.
All that it receives from the £BOO,OOO col-
lected is £40,000. Yet probably half the
traffic in the State pours in and out of the
metropolis.
Cleary, one of the Country Progs., told the
Hogan Government pointedly in Vic. Assem-
bly the other night that the Cabbage Garden
needed a redistribution of population and
not another redistribution of seats. As
Cleary and his three friends, Dunstan, Glow-
rey and Allnutt, constitute the tail that wags
the Labor dog, Ilogan cannot very well dis-
regard his warning to keep off electoral re-
division ; neither can he turn a deaf ear to
Caucus clamor for one-vote-one-value. But
he can temporise, and temporise he will.
In its new setting in the Spring-street
House Vic. Assembly’s mace is the observed
of all observers. It is a replica of the
bauble which disappeared mysteriously from
the precincts of this Parliamentary building
on October 9, 1891, while Matt. Davies was
Speaker, and was never traced. For nearly
10 years after this vanishing trick the House
did with a wooden mace. Then Speaker
Mason (now under the sod) induced the first
Peacock Ministry in 1901 to buy a new one
at a cost of about £250, and the wooden one
was left for the Reps.
Some remarkable misinformation about
Australian politics has been published by
a Washington Labor paper which claims
to have had “a composite interview” with
the unionist members of Brago’s Mission: —
Labor has .been in power in the national capital
for 12 years, as against 14 years for the Opposition,
which is now in control, with Stanley M. Bruce, a
thorough-going reactionary, as Prime Minister. The
next general election is scheduled for March, 1929,
and Mr. Grayndler and his colleagues believe it will
result in a Labor victory. At present Labor has
32 of the 74 members of the House ; a gain of six-
seats would, therefore, place the workers in power.
In that event, Edward G. Theodore may become the
head of the Government.
The truth is that Federal Labor had 71
years of office prior to February 17, 1917.
and has had none since; that it holds 23
seats out of 75 in the House of Representa-
tives and 8 out of 36 in the Senate; and
that, so far from Theodore planning to be-
come Priminister in 1929, he is wondering
how he can remain member for Balmain.
REHABILITATED.
[FOR THE BULLETIN. ]
“Ex-Minister McKell, who was in London when
the N.S.W. Labor split took place and who declined
a portfolio in the reconstructed Lang Cabinet be-
cause he was ‘unable to follow Lang and Willis into
the political wilderness’ (S. M. Herald, 27/5/’27),
has been re-admitted to the fold, having convinced
his chief that he was misled by a cable from the
other faction. Mr. Lang, after an affecting interview,
expressed gratification that his confidence in Mr.
McKell had been renewed.”
“When I was fast in London, far, far away
in London,
Tilings looked a little black for you, my
Jack, you must confess.
I reckoned you were busted and I recoiled
disgusted
At thought of tagging after you into the
wilderness.
I made a cursbd blunder, I thought they’d
got you under,
The time had come to sunder, it seemed,
from yours my lot.
Returning I awaken to find myself mistaken.
I deemed your cake was dough, Jack, and
now I know it’s not.”
“When you were stuck in London, across
the seas in London —
In London where 1 sent you a-jaunting,
don’t forget—
You weakened on your chief, Mac; ’twas
clearly your belief, Mac,
His enemies had triumphed, his star was
soon to set.
Through good report and lying you should,
there’s no denying,
Have kept my flag a-flying and to your
salt been true;
Yet now you’ve made submission and prof-
fered in addition
Some obvious contrition I'll not be hard on
you.”
“When I was there in London, upon my lone
in London,
It seemed almost quixotic your side the
fence to drop.
I sparred—l cannot hide it —for time, but
you denied it.
Ah, Jack, could I have visioned that you
would stay atop,
No neutral role I’d played for, no fuller
cables stayed for
Ere hearth and home I made for and
London left behind.
But I was misdirected, as you may have sus-
pected,
By several gents, with axes (meant for
your neck) to grind.”
“You made a break in London, a darned bad
break in London.
’Tis well you’ve cried pcccavi with empha-
sis profuse.
Slim schemers had deceived you, you tell,
when out I heaved vou
With such extreme abruptness—and ’tis
a fair excuse.
Oft cheek-by-jowd we’ve striven. To ranks a
trifle riven
Returned assoiled, forgiven, and fight the
righteous fight.
You showed a somewhat yellow streak for a
time, McKello,
But now, ’tis purged, old fellow. You’re
white once more, all white!”
X.B.W.
IFORD.


MELLOW
COOL
AND
ALWAYS
ALIKE
ARDATH TOBACCO CO: LTD: LONDON
THE BEST
CIGARETTES
FOR
YEARS AT
20 for 1/6
SOCIETY
"and it's
printed with
WIMBLE'S INKS”
“X.S.”: A plausible gent, dropped in on a
Melbourne firm that sells vacuum-cleaners
and told them that his sister wanted one. He
then trotted a salesman out to a house in
the suburbs, and having failed to get anyone
to answer the front-door bell ambled round
to the back, leaving the salesman and his
instrument on the verandah. After a suit-
able interval he returned and announced that
his sister was too ill to sign the contract,
but if the salesman would leave the thing that
coughs up the dust he Avould hand over £,’>
deposit and post the document. It looked
a reasonable proposition enough and the
salesman agreed to it, but when he returned
next day he found a woman who indignantly
denied she owned a brother or a passion
for vacuum-cleaners. Evidently the thief
had satisfied himself that the lady Avould
be out when he called the previous day.
;j: • :Jt sjt *
“Emel”: The destruction 'of a waxwork
criminal in a N. S. Wales township
(B. 21/7/’27) reminds me of the exploit
of a Victorian digger in 1916. He was en-
joying- his leave (from Seymour camp) in
Melbourne, and included in his recreations
a visit to the Waxworks, where a represen-
tation of the death of Edith Cavill formed
the latest exhibit. He looked hard at it, then
Avalked up to the counterfeit German officer
with an angry, “So you’re the that shot
Nurse Cavill? Take that!” The blow
knocked the figure flat.
•fi ❖ ❖ *
“Imbaga”: It has often been alleged, but
never established, that Papuan women are
experts in the use of contraceptives (B.
4/8/’27). Abortion by mechanical means is
common enough and possibly comes easier
because of the native lady’s old-time acquaint-
ance with cannibalism. She usually did the
cutting up and cooking—and doubtless
obtained thereby a better knowledge of a
human being’s internal anatomy than her
white sisters ever had the chance to acquire.
At the Government’s request, one of the
Papuan missions lately held an exhaustive
inquiry into the causes of birth limitation
in its large district. Food shortage and
the worry of childbearing were among the
reasons advanced; there was also mention of
a potent social convention that a woman
bearing many children was “allee same”
snake, pig or dog. Thus we see that, say,
Bolts Point and East Cape are closer akin,
in some matters than one would suppose.
FINE FIGURES MAKE FINE BIRDS.
"Great Scott, you ought to be ashamed of yourself, going about
with so few clothes on!”
“When Em ashamed of myself, pet, you won’t be able to see me
for clothes.”
“C. Coral”: At a northern port of Queens-
land the other day, where the Eastern ships
call in, a China-bound steamer
dropped a case of apples too many.
For a few days they lay in the shed
unclaimed, until one of the wharf
officials decided to see how the fruit
was keeping. The top layer of apples
looked really appetising; but, digging
down a bit, he suddenly struck color
in the shape of several boxes of cart-
ridges. This is one way of getting
ammunition to China! A possible
explanation is that the promoters of
the scheme had fallen out amongst
themselves, and that one of them had
adopted this method of giving the
authorities the wfink and getting home
on the others; of course the ship
would be combed over on arriving at
the China port.
* * * *
“Oyez”: The only public crier I
ever saw in Australia had his being
in my old home town, Singleton
(N.S.W.) ; local rumor had it that he
Avas an ex-schoolmaster reduced by in-
judicious elboAV-bending. All announce-
ments of coming local events he pro-
claimed at the street corners, clad in a
long frock coat, a broad brimmed
“hard hitter” and a tremendous beard
stained with the juices of past liba-
tions. He always carried a bell, but
in place of the “Oyez! Oyez! Oyez!”
of English tradition lie used to poui-
out a tangled stream of bad Latin and
good English, mixed up with ballads
like “The Charge of the Light Bri-
gade” and nonsense rhymes composed
extempore for the kiddies who fol-
lowed him up the street. As a side-
line he ran the “Bushman’s Home,”
just across the river, Avhere any poor
swaggie could get a bed for sixpence,
or if he were very fussy, a clean one
for .a bob. Does any Bulletin reader
know of other specimens of the genus
town-crier? Tlrs one, I fancy, finished
his days in a Sydney charitable insti-
tution.
“Medicus”: The casualty department at
Sydney Hospital sees plenty of the razor
gangs and their work (B. 21/7/’27). One
man admitted lately, slightly injured and
more than a little drunk, proved to have had
all his pockets deftly slit with a razor. The
tinal slash was made in the side of his
boot: he had evidently kept his “wad” in the
sole. And the victim of assault and robbery
himself carried a razor, which the constable
who brought him in decided to leave with him.
the same being hardly a lethal weapon in
the eyes of the law. When the patient was
allowed to go he looked as if he were com-
puting the cost of a headstone for his assail-
ant.
# $ &
“Bouragi”: In Adelaide the other day
one R. G. Nicholson, who is connected with
a mission society, told an official luncheon
party that a wife
could be purchased
in some parts of
the Pacific for a
pig, at which there
were the usual
gasps of li orro r.
Actually, to com-
mand such a price
in some regions
where the writer
has been, the lady
would have to be of
dazzling beauty, or
the pig right back
in the also - ran
class. In some of
t h e S a n t a Cruz
group tlie natives
used to keep a
special breed of
large, blue, hairless
pigs, carefully tied
i" trees, with their
alm o s t circular-
tgrowing tusks
neatly “served”
with sinnet to pre-
vent injury to what
would be priceless
“jewellery” some
day. King Solo-
mon’s entire serag-
lio would hardly
have purchased one
of these, and it was
the proud owner’s
custom to lead them
on leashes to pig
con noiss eurs in
neighboring villages
for inspection and
comparison. The
writer once met a
party of this sort
climbing a high
wooded ridge. Every
50 yards or so the
two pig - fanciers
with the leash
would halt, while
half a dozen attendant females sprinkled
water on the waddling pets from long and
heavy bamboo carriers.
* >!■ * Ml
“Inlay” : The stunting airman (B. 4/8/’27)
was a grave menace in England during the
last years of the war. Brand-new pilots,
revelling in their new element on their first
few solo flights, used to cheerfully dive at
anything moving on the country below and
see how near they could go without touching
it. The practice was frowned on by
authority, especially after one youngster
had miscalculated when diving on a horse
and trap crossing Salisbury Plain, leaving
the driver minus his head. I saw a Shortt
seaplane dive at the crowded pier at
Brighton one day, causing a mild panic;
the foolishness might easily have had worse
results than the involuntary dip into the
water that one holiday-maker took. Some
of the young army pilots, waiting to go to
France, used to practise diving on the
lumbering Shortts of the coastal patrols,
“sitting on their tails,” and then treating
them to a burst of blank cartridges as if
they were an enemy ’plane. This rather
peeved the naval fliers, and protests from
commanding officers having failed to abate
the nuisance they decided to put the lid
on it themselves. A couple of budding aces
were greatly surprised, when “harassing” a
Shortt, to note the sudden appearance of
numerous holes in the fabric of their wings,
and hurriedly sheered off when it was borne
in on them that the seaplanes’ passengers
were also indulging in a little mimic war-
fare, and not with blank cartridges either.
M: Ms Ms Ms
“R.G. J.”: “Some of ’em talk about naggin’
women,” lie told me, his face emerging from
the pot I had just paid for, “but, b’lieve me,
the worst is the kind that is alwus lookin’ on
the bright side of things. Peggy and me lived
at Redfern for two years and there was
times when I almost wished she’d burst out
and fly off the ’andle a bit. If the rain came
through the ceilin’ in the kitchen she’d say
we ought ter be thankful it never came inter
the bedroom ; and when I’d come ’ome a bit
squiffy she’d say it was a blessin’ I wasn’t
one of them terrible drug fiends what she
read so much about lately. Well, I come
’ome one night a bit squiffier than usual but
not so sozzled that I didn’t drop to it she
’ad ’er ’at on and ’er bag was on the table.
It dawns on me that she’s all set fer leavin’
me, and I’m a blanky liar if I didn’t feel a
bit sorry. ‘Yes, Jim,’ she ses, ‘l’m leavin’
you for a better man, but every cloud ’as a
silv’rv linin’ and it’s a blessin’ we never got
married.’ Yes, mister, I could do another.”
A SOLDIER-SETTLER’S YARN.
[FOR THE BULLETIN. ]
"1 mind the time,” said Morrison, "when
Johnson ’ere went west.
An' Johnson was a proper cove, as always did
his best,
But ’l4-T8 started him—an’ Repat. did the
rest.
"He'd gone through Hell in Flanders an’ at
times 'is mind Avent queer—
But them there things must happen avlicu
you ’olds your country dear —
An’ a grateful ‘King an’ Country’ ’ad gone
an' planked him ’ere.
“You’ve ’eard of Gippsland weather? Well,
you can understand
No man can be an invalid an’ work upon
the land.
You’ve gotten- ’ave a strong right arm, an’
heaps an’ heaps of sand.
"The lfheumatism gripped 'iin; an’ the
bracken—well, you know,
It’s like a Treasurer's deficit, it simply ’as
to grow,
An' once it gets a hold on yer it’s best
to up an’ go.
“8o Johnson watched the bracken climb
slowly up the hill,
An’ his face went white as marble, an’ his
hands were never still,
An’ he shook above his fire, like a man that’s
caught a chill.
“When his dairy herd was starvin’ an in-
spector comes along
To give the place once over—an’ Johnson gets
it strong.
‘You’ll be out of 'ere to-morrow,’ was the
burden of ’is song.
DEPRECIATION.
“What’s the matter with Clause to-night? Have she and her husband been quarrelling
so soon?”
“Oh, such a scene! Before they were married he told her she was a girl in a thousand,
and to-night he said she was one in a hundred!”
“An’ Johnson takes it easy—an’ then lie
has his say
While his fingers closed and opened, an’ the
lips of him went grey.
‘They spared me out in Flanders to kill me
• here to-day.’
"I mind as ’ow,” said Morrison, “that when
the inquest sat
They brought a verdict ‘Suicide.’ I don’t
agree with that.
I call it ‘Killed in action—or murdered by
Repat.’ ”
Victoria.
P. T. FINDLAY.


“Alwyn”: Operating on a young woman
at Sydney Hospital for appendicitis recently
the surgeon located a couple of pins in the
patient’s anatomy. The record in this line
is held by a patient who arrived at the
institution with a whole stomachful of indi-
gestible articles. He was a window-dresser,
who had fallen from the top of a ladder
whilst holding a quantity of pins in his
mouth. He was rushed off to the hospital
and an X-ray record was taken of his
interior. You can sec the plate to-day, with
scores of little black lines criss-crossed all
oyer. Thanks to a speedy and skilful opera-
tion, the pins were all recovered, and the
patient suffered nd further trouble. But
to this day he hates putting even a cigarette
in his mouth.
* :!: % *
“Webley Barker”: They used to teach
in the revolver schools on the other side that
the Webley was a sure defence at close
quarters or against the bayonet, if handled
according to instructions. Said instructions
were: “Carry the weapon at full arm’s
length, muzzle downwards. When attacked
raise to horizontal position by wrist move-
ment, at the same time cocking with the
thumb. Point at the lowest button of your
man’s tunic and loose off—if she lacks
upward you’ll get him through the chest or
the head.” I saw two onrushers who had
been stopped by the big leaden bullets, and
both were very unpleasantly circumstanced,
the first haying caught it in the shoulder,
the second in tip- head. In the latter case
Jerry’s steel helmet saved him from a fatal
wound.
* * v *
“Clerk”: Melbourne and Sydney boast a
green-cap messenger service which under-
takes for a very reasonable fee to relieve
the restless citizen of such irritating tasks
as standing in queues to buy theatre and
railway tickets, returning hotel keys, sending-
last-minute telegrams from trains, and carry-
ing parcels. The other day this Sydney tele-
gram was received at the service’s Mel-
bourne headquarters:—
Purchase and deliver a five-shilling- bunch of
violets to Miss Flossie Frivols, Princess Theatre, by
one o’clock on Saturday. Attach card from Percy
Plantagenet.
The management confidently anticipates the
day when marriage proposals will be rele-
gated to its staff, and when the suburbanite
will placidly mow his lawn on Sunday morn-
ings and send a devout messenger to fill his
pew in church.
* * *
“Crojack” : If the dreams of the medical
officer at Makogai Island leper station are
realised many of those deemed worse than
dead will enjoy life again. According
to Rev. J. 11. Cain, of Wesley Church,
Melbourne, who returned by the Sonoma
from a visit to Makogai, treatment with
chaulmoogra oil has worked wonders, several
lepers having been discharged as cured.
There are 370 of these unfortunates on the
island, and a little band of self-denying men
and women are helping to make life bearable
for them.
•i- '!• ijt
“G.8.L.”: It does not appear to be defin-
itely known who named Thursday Island.
Robert Logan Jack wrote in his “Northmost
Australia” that “the probability is that
Captain P. P. King named Tuesday, Thurs-
day and Friday Islands in 1818, although
the names do not appear on his charts.”
Bligh’s journals show that he named Wed-
nesday and Sunday Islands while he and his
17 companions, set adrift from the Bounty,
were making their famous long-distance boat
record of 2400 miles to Timor.
* * * *
“Aberdovey”: Welshmen the world over
will thrill with indignation over one of last
week’s cables. The outrage occurred at the
national eisteddfod. The show is an annual
competitive carnival of poets, singers, recit-
ers, instrumentalists and similar persons, and
is supposed to be a continuation of an ancient
Druidic festival, the modern audiences re-
placing the old-time sacrifices. Successful
competitors are invested with the Druidic
robe, built on the model of the mid-Victorian
nightgown, before being crowned with a
wreath, by elders similarly attired and wear-
ing, in addition, long white artificial ziffs.
The shock referred to came from the win-
ning bard, who blasphemously refused to
assume the official nightie. Further, he sug-
gested that the high priests should cease to
incur the ridicule of Englishmen by making
such silly asses of themselves. In a stunned
silence the ceremony proceeded mid the night-
gownless one was awarded the prize, but some
of the operators must have thought regret-
fully of the good old days when Druid priest
and priestess had summarv power of lif e and
death over the profaner of their sacred
mysteries.
* * * *
“Larrapinta”: A friend of mine gave me a
lift into town, and on the way pulled up at
a service-station for petrol. When he was
re-entering the car I leant over and
turned the switch-key. and for a second I
thought that a horse had kicked me in the
face. When I had partially recovered I heard
my friend telling how his car had recently
been borrowed by unscrupulous persons who
had damaged it to the extent of £5O or so.
The key I had turned, it appeared, was only
a booby trap for joy-riders, connected to a
powerful shocking-coil; the real switch was
an inconspicuous button. The owner went on
to show me several other surprise packets
expressly rigged up for car thieves. I would
give something to see the face of the next
man who lays lawless hands on that car.
THE PIED PIPER FROM HOLLYWOOD.
“Three thousand Melbourne children were shown a sex-problem picture with all the sub-titles
cut out. Prizes were offered for the best story of the film. Ninety-eight per cent, of the children
picked out the worst features of the film, seizing upon the salac’ous scenes in every instance and
elaborating them beyond the scenes actually shown.” —Evidence given at Federal Film Commission.
“Lao-dah”: Is there any traveller so light-
hearted as the Australian? A char-it-banc
was standing in front of the Melbourne
G.P.O. the other morning. Three women
and nine men climbed into it, the driver
tooted his horn, and they started—for
Port Darwin. As a humorist on the spot
remarked, they had a fine day for it. They
will bump over 6000 miles of landscape at
the rate, in places, of 300 miles a day. The
fare is £lOO. and among the advertised attrac-
tions are the opal fields at Cooberpedie, the
mission-station on the Roper River, D.ar-
win’s Chinatown, Camooweal and Bourke,
hundreds of miles apart.
* * * *
“C.Q.”: Pedestrians were startled to see
the surface of a Moonee Ponds (Melb.l
bridge rise a foot in height and for a length of
six feet in the wake of a motor-’bus crammed
with innocent people. Then a gaping fissure
opened in the middle of the hump and Avood
blocks like lumps of lava were projected
40 feet along the road. Everything pointed
to another dastardly bomb outrage, and the
Russell-street police came hurtling to the
scene. A careful search underneath the
bridge disclosed nothing unusual, and the
conjoint intelligence of tAvo large constables
failed to elucidate the mystery. Fin all v an
engineer was summoned and it took him about
two seconds to place the blame. A day of
heavy rain and the natural expansion of new
wood, plus the weight of the omnibus on each
side of the fault, had caused the sudden
rising of the hump. Then the back of the
motor chassis, by scattering the wood blocks,
made the perfect semblance of a violent
eruption.
“Ledraw”: How's this for parochialism?
The N. S. Wales Fire-Brigade Commissioners
have ukased that the Tweed Heads fire-
brigade will henceforth not be permitted to
operate in Coolangatta, just over the border,
even although the Coolangatta council offers
to indemnify them against any loss. Yet
during the last few years the brigade has
helped to save thousands of pounds’ worth
of property in Queensland, and the only
division between the towns is the border
fence.
* * * *
“Raja”: Speaking of mystery men (B.
28/7/’27), let me introduce the hermit ot
Hat Hill, who lives alone in a home-made
stone-and-mud shack near the foot of the
hill of that name some miles from Black-
heath (N.S.W.). He is an interesting con-
versationalist with a fund of information
on doings in the Indian Army 50 years ago.
Like “Sebrof’s” solitary, he often invites
strangers to come inside, his favorite guests
being youngsters, who listen open-mouthed
to his tales of Indian rajahs. He further
delights the children By hiding them and
whistling to bush-birds that he. has fed
through the winter; these come and perch
on his shoulder and take crumbs from his
As a slight return for his hospi-
tality I once brought him a jar of good
tobacco, but he gracefully returned it, tell-
ing me that he prefers the fluff from the
honeysuckle-tree cones to any tobacco. Out
of curiosity I subsequently tried the stuff,
but am unable to recommend it, though it
might make a substitute for any busliie who
happens to run short.
He ❖ *
“Sidweelan”: I suspect that plenty of
moonshine is brewed nearer to Sydney than
the hills of Broken Bay (B. 21/7/’27).
Not long ago I Avas one of a party of holiday-
makers camped beside one of the three beauti-
ful creeks debouching into Narrabeen
Lagoon (N.S.W.). An old _ inhabitant of
this Arcadian locality got into the habit
of dropping in at our camp, mostly at dinner-
time • on one of his calls he found one of ns
about to row over to the Narrabeen pub to
obtain some brandy for a man who was down
with acute abdominal pains. “Lend us yer
boat, mister.” suggested the old fellow with
a meaning wink, “and I’ll get yer er.drop of
the real stuff in about ’arf tlier time it would
take yer ter get th’ other.” His offer was
availed of and half an hour saw him back
with a bottle full of Chain Lightning. Tie
didn’t enlighten us as to \vhere it came from
and Ave respected his reticence. After the
first nip our patient was so busily employed
recovering his breath that he quite forgot all
about his colic.
$ * * N=
“N.F.”: “X.N.0.” tells us that the signal
“Well done” alleged to have been made to
South Australia’s Protector could not pos-
sibly have found its way into a naval signal-
book. Still, the late Joseph Conrad was a
stickler for correct nautical expressions, and
the following passage is from his pen: “In
the Navy, where human values are thoroughly
understood, the highest signal of commenda-
tion complimenting a ship’s company on some
achievement consists exactly of those two
simple words ‘Well done,’ followed by. the
name of the ship. Not marvellously done,
astonishingly done, wonderfully done—only
just ‘Well done,’ so-and-so.” The article
which is entitled “Well Done, 1918,’’originally
appeared in the London Daily Chronicle in
commendation of the part played by the sea-
men of Great Britain in the Great War, and
it was republished in Conrad’s “Notes on
Life and Letters” in 1925.
* ❖ ❖ *
“Kwinana”: The Goldie Reef is not the
only charted one to disappear off the Papuan
coastline (B. 14/7/’27) ; what is worse,
uncharted ones are always cropping up. The
Pruth ran ashore on an uncharted ledge out-
side Port Moresby and became a total wreck.
One of the Australian naval vessels, going
to her assistance, ran on to an uncharted
reef within sight of the Pruth. The Min-
dini went ashore in alleged deep water near
the Mellish reefs. Auxiliary schooners anil
ketches which trade along the Papuan and
New Guinea coast are poor risks for insur-
ance companies; word is constantly coining
into Samarai and Moresby of the total loss
of one of these craft. About the only class of
vessel which escapes is the pearling lugger
handled by the Japs.
“Black Tracker”: A
sheep-drover, after being
paid off in a S. \us.
toAvnship, embarked on a
mild jag, during Avhxcii
his dog disappeared. Be-
lieving the animal, a
valuable one, to have
been stolen, he notified the
police and offered a hand-
some reward for its re-
turn. Some days later lie
Avas notified that a dog
answering the description
of the lost one had been
found in the possession of
a man arrested in a neigh-
boring town for stealing.
The drover was rather re-
luctant to make another
trip, having already been
twice lured aAvay on false
scents ; Avhile he Avas dis-
cussing the matter at the
police-station his eye fell
on the “His Master's
Voice” advertisement fea-
tured on a magazine on
the table. This gave him
an idea and he asked if
the receiver at the other
police - station could be
placed near the dog’s ear.
This was done and the
drover called “Hi, speak
up, Laddie!” and was
answered by a storm of
glad barks. Shortly after
another ring came asking
the drover to quieten the
dog, as he was barking
the police - station down.
The next injunction that
went through was “Sit.
Laddie, sit!” The dog
stiffened to immobility
and silently waited, Avitli
eyes fixed on the machine,
until his master came to
claim him.
H» JjC
“The Listening-Insect” :
Adelaide’s broadcasting-
station is making a fight
for the country folk avlio
demand the amenities of
the city brought to their
doors. It was refused per-
mission to disseminate a
description of a football
match the other day. All
the same, listeners —and
the football bosses —were
astounded to hear a vivid
account of the progress of
the game come floating
through the air. Hurried
investigation disclosed no
hidden microphone in the
stand or concealed about
the ground. Then it was
discovered that the un-
daunted radio people had
rented a house overlook-
ing the field. What is
more, they propose to go
on peeping any way they can. If the football
managements erect screens all round their
grounds they will probably look on from
aeroplanes.
“Pa Kiri Kiri”: Touching “Sullivan, last
of the Morioris,” who once numbered 2000
on the Chatham Islands (B. 12/5/'27).
“Mako” hasn’t got the lone survivor’s name
quite right: he is Tom Solomon to the pakeha
and “Tamahina Horomina Heta to Maoris.
Incidentally, he is 40-odd years of age and
weighs over 20 stone. Tom is the last pure
Moriori, and there can be no more in the
absence of any Moriori women. He is mar-
ried to a Maori wife.
THE SCEPTIC.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“Bondi, it is generally agreed by Sydney philo-
logists, is the native word for ‘the noise of the waves
breaking on the beach.’ About Coogee there is a
slight divergence of opinion, some translating it
‘bad smell’ and others ‘rotten kelp.’ ”
Bondi. Thoroughly expressive! Who’d
have thought an unprogressive
Multitude of grey barbarians roaming
over range and flat
With a language near as scanty as their
clothing, post and ante,
Could have packed such wealth of mean-
ing in a tiny word like that.
And that haunt of lovers smoodgy, boys in
flannel, girls in fuji,
Murmuring mellifluous Coogee! Not for
me, if I can help,
This egregious derivation from the noxious
emanation,
The abominable odor rising from decaying
kelp.
Bondi! Coogee! ITid in mystery your
nomenclatural history.
It might ante-date Damascus. Who can
say? Not you nor I.
Aions old. mayhap, your durance. Yet with
ponderous assurance
Scares of near-omniscient linguists tell us
what you signify.
Massive intellects they’ve brought to bear
on wliat yefu mean, or ought to,
Delving in traditions oral, poring over
dusty shelves,
Till some worn and garbled label, relic of
a vanished babel,
Gets an import reckoned likely, deemed
appropriate by themselves.
Cootamundra, Wantabadgery—hidden clues
they’ll dig ex aggere
From the dust-tip of the ages, tearing
down oblivion’s screens.
Ah! how different England’s case is! Where
the cradle of our race is,
And antiquaries are thickest, no one lenotvs
n-hat London means.
N.S.AV.
T. THE R.
YOUTH.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The flapper powders her dainty nose,
And dabs at her soft young lips:
How bravely twinkle her silken hose:
As gaily along she trips!
She looks so dainty and free from care.
In the swirl of the crowded street,
A glowing damsel with shingled hair,
And jazz in her heedless feet.
Her eyes are blue as the August sky.
I wish I were twenty-three.
As T watch the flapper go gaily by
With never a glance for me!
N.s.w.
CHAS. S. GILMOUB.


ss;
*
■
u
V
m
l:
* ,r
y
n
;; •www& i
",niw “; pm
‘mim
W:&i0
?i : Pf i
I'j'tiityj'A ’-I
i /'./ ‘i-'Piy.. , .''iy. I 1 ,'
;■■/■, . - ;|i!;;; W*\m \i
yt
lT>
-
•3? -
%
y
i*,// ; i ,
if,
■i i i-;' !','/
sv‘!||
'i'i.Mfife
PM
I
a
fe;
K
:-i
I ■
*■. ,w?y. v
il
Y/.
#
fjra
yy
■y
s' **
y </ '*%
AROMATIC SCHIEDAM
ISLJIMI
jrccu
s y.
«ni
y y
y y
*‘A Blessing to Humanity
y'y g
A Man’s Drink
and
A Wise Man’s Habit
Because of its gently stimulating
action, its undoubted purity and
its satisfying refreshment, yet
withal its beneficial action in
cleansing the system of many
impurities, Wolfe’s Schnapps has
become the choice of men who
seek to combine occasional stimu-
lation with the benefits of Wolfe’s
Schnapps’ medicinal virtues.
There’s a wealth of wisdom in
observing the golden rule of
“One Wolfe’s Schnapps a day
for your Health’s Sake,”
Start to-day and acquire tho
habit of the Wise Men . For your
convenience, Wolfe’s Schnapps
Is obtainable in large, halt 0
and quarter-size bottles,


The Australian Provincial Assurance Association Limited
HEAD OFFICE: 77 KING STREET, SYDNEY.
Directors: Messrs. EDMUND S. W. PAUL (Chairman), ALEX. KING, Dr. E. MORRIS lIUMPHERY, Senator J. D. MILLEN, and WM. NORTHAM.
Total Assets exceed. . .. .. £1,724,000
BRANCHES: Melbourne, Brisbane, Adelaide, Perth, Hobart. NEW ZEALAND: Wellington, Auckland, Christchurch, Dunedin.
SOME REASONS WHY YOU SHOULD INSURE WITH THE A.P.A.:
(1) Because in the event of total disablement for life all future premiums
will be paid by the Association and no deduction made from policy or
bonuses.
(2) Hospital Benefits are given with every Life Policy applicable to public
and private hospitals, varying in amount according to the sum assured
and no deduction made from policy or bonuses.
(3) In the event of loss of eye or limb through accident, a quarter of the
sum assured will be paid forthwith, and the premium reduced propor-
tionately.
(4) PERSONAL ACCIDENT and Combined Benefit Policies provide for
almost every contingency.
GEO. PEACOCK, P.C.1.5., Secretary.
NO EXTRA PREMIUM IS CHARGED FOR THESE BENEFITS
Probate, Children’s Education and Finance Policies specialised.
Applications for Agencies invited from men of integrity.
T. W. RAPLEY, General Manager.
“Tamornie”: The “plant longa bush” used
by the Papuan women as a contraceptive (B.
2S/7/'27) has been the object of search by
medical men, and some others less disinter-
ested. for many years. There is no doubt
about its efficacy, and it is remarkably
quick in its action. Abortion is also induced
by violent methods such as leaping from a
height, lifting heavy weights and an excep-
THE DIPLOMAT.
“How old would you say Peg is?”
“To her face, or behind her back?”
tionally strenuous form of massage. The
killing of unwanted children was openly
praetised in the Munombo district not
so many years ago. The mites were some-
times tied to small rafts and allowed to
drift out to sea. Others were taken
into the bush and tied in the branches
of trees, or more mercifully disposed of
by a thrust of a bone needle through the
top of the head. For some reason which it
is difficult to explain satisfactorily, where
the natives come under mission influence the
birth-rate declines rapidly. This can be veri-
fied by any person having access to the census
or head-tax books, as I had for a number
of years.
“ J.C.McT.” : I saw two quaintly assorted
yoke-mates one day in Egypt—a camel and
a buffalo—supplying the motive power for a
very ancient wooden plough. But I remem-
ber an even queerer team in France. In a
small village my mate and I watched a cart
being heavily loaded. Presently the owner
appeared, leading a diminutive donkey. Know-
ing that the donk., which was scarcely 3ft.
high, could never shift such a load, we
waited curiously. The owner fastened the
tiny ass to trace-chains attached to the
extreme ends of the shafts. Then he stepped
between the shafts, installed himself as
wheeler, and off the procession went. The
human supported the weight of the shafts
and did his bit and the donkey did the rest.
If the leader slacked his trace-chains for a
second the wheeler applied the order of the
boot.
* * * *
“C.Q.” : Mention of the armless and head-
less statuary in the Fitzroy Gardens, Mel-
bourne, reminds me that one night a year or so
ago some gay lads removed one of the dilapi-
dated ladies entire, put her in a motor-car
and drove to a near-by foundling home. Plant-
ing her on the doormat they rang the bell,
said, “Here’s another one for you,” and fled.
When the owners arrived to retrieve their
work of art they found some merry nurses
had tucked it up in bed.
* * * *
“The Rumpus”: Whales are often seen
off Cape Leeuwiu (W.A.), but recently one
spouted its way right into sunlit Flinders
Bay and lay resting like a miniature black
island. After a few hours it moved lazily to
the old abandoned timber-jetty and vigor-
ously rubbed its sides on the ancient piles.
The jetty being on its last legs nobody was
game to go to its end to have a personal
interview with the visitor, and after the
cetacean was satisfied that all the barnacles
were off its back and the sea-fleas crushed,
it moved off in leisurely fashion. Close to
the jetty is the big iron ring, firmly embedded
in rock, where early-day whalers tethered
their dead captures before cutting them up.
* * * *
“Cleo”: The Hindoo hawker is a perti-
nacious soul, especially in country districts,
but I found the limit in a Chinese tea-
dealer who dropned in on us at Flint Hill
(Vic.) during the Christmas vacation and
induced the wife to buy half a pound <>f
his wares. Finding it of good quality, she
told the Chink to leave a similar quantity
every week during our stay. We left at.
the end of January, locked up the house, and
did not revisit it until Easter, when the
wife was annoyed to find 11 half-pound
packets of tea neatly stacked on the pantry-
shelf : an unlocked window disclosed the
method of its delivery. A few days later a
smiling Chow appeared, and requested pay-
ment. When my wife objected that she had
not ordered the tea, John remained suave
but firm. “You no say me no leave tea,”
lie pointed out. There seemed some force in
this, and finally the missus decided to pay
up, at the same time telling John, a trifle
tartly, not to call again. He didn’t, but
before leaving he wrote some hieroglyphics
on my front gatepost, which out of curiosity
I copied on to tracing paper and submitted
to a Chinese merchant of my acquaintance
in Melbourne. His translation ran: “A
bloated she-eamel lives within!”
THE INWARD STRUGGLE.
'“Ah, well, hut your wife’s death must be a happy release?”
“Yes, but I try not to look at it from a selfish point of view.”
“Carisbrook, Jun.”: The other morning
when 2BL, Sydney, was re-broadcasting 2LO,
London, listeners-in with a humble crystal
receiver in Sydney heard the famous Big Ben
strike six. Five minutes earlier the Sydney
G.P.O. clock had struck four. The differ-
ence was that it was 6 p.m. in London and
4 a.m. in Sydney!
* * * *
“Trevdee”: I remember one party of travel-
lers who had no fault to find with the com-
munication cords on Victorian trains. It
was in 1920 when Johnny Douglas and his
cricketers were travelling to Bendigo that
one of them pulled the cord and stopped the
train. The railway officials were very wrath-
ful when they were informed that E. R.
Wilson’s hat had blown out of the window
and he was reluctant to proceed without it.
* * * *
“Kai te Kuri”; A married man with a
somewhat heavy millstone round his neck was
sued for maintenance in Auckland the other
day. It was elicited during the case that he
had no children by his lawful wife, and had
indeed ceased to live with her, but that he
was endeavoring to support seven illegiti-
mate children scattered round the Dominion.
At the same time he was trying to save
enough money to meet the expenses that
were about to attend the arrival of an
eighth.
* * * *
“Strict Veg.”: Stout and jimjams fre-
quently go with oysters, but jimjams don’t
usually go with oysters alone. A Melbourne
citizen got a Stewart Island (M.L.) bivalve
the other day which was almost completely
occupied by two sea creatures that repeatedly
put their tongues out at him. They were
two enormous barnacles, each nearly an inch
square.
%. * * *
“ Wart”: The first flag with a Southern
Cross on it was flown by the Australasian
League four years before Peter Lalor
raised his standard at the Eureka stockade
(B. 21/7/’27). The league was founded by
the Rev. James West, of Launceston, to bind
together the scattered anti-transportation
organisations of the then colonies; it further
aimed “to secure the Federation of the
Colonies under the Crown.” Its first con-
ference was held in Hobart and the first
intercolonial conference held under its
auspices took place at Melbourne in January,
1851. Here it was that the league’s flag
first appeared, and a solemn covenant was
signed by the delegates. The banner was
bordered with white, and bore the name of
the league and the date in gold letters: in
the centre was exactly the same cross which
appears on the Australian flag to-day.
There was, however, no six-pointed star.
The five specks in the cross stood for
N.S.W., Victoria, South Australia. Tasmania
and Maoriland. Queensland hadn't come
into being, and Westralia having just con-
verted itself into a convict settlement was
obviously outside the pale of the league.
The Tasmanian delegates took the banner
back home with them, and it afterwards
came into the possession of Henry Dow-
ling, a Launceston bookseller. His son,
William Dowling, presented it to the Vic-
toria Museum, Launceston. Peter Lalor bor-
rowed most of his ideas as well as his bit
of bunting from the Australasian League.
* * :■! $
“Arthur It.": Wireless has gripped the
feminine mind like any other fashion. In a
large block of flats recently built at St. Kilda
(Vic.) there is a wireless set in every
woman's boudoir. Wireless sets are also being
constructed with all sorts of frills to delight
the sex; it is possible to purchase receivers
in the form of kewpies, with ribbons to
match the color-scheme of the room.
“Kwinana": When PCJJ, the inter-
national broadcasting-station at Eindhoven,
throws over his h.t. switch the world becomes
a very small place. The Sydney radio fan
can sit back in his armchair and float on
a magic carpet around the world. “2LU.
London, calling! Good-night, everyone. Our
market session now commences!” and a cul-
tured voice reels out the ruling price of
vegetables in Covent Garden. The Savoy
orchestra plays some delightful dance-tunes;
suddenly 2LO breaks off abruptly and Syd-
ney bends over to catch an excitable voice,
“Ullo. Radio Paris speakin'! Bon unit, les
nouvelles,” and from the Eiffel Tower comes
the French weather report and news ser-
vice. But France is so voluble and excit-
able that it is almost a relief when a gut-
tural voice announces “Langenburg, Ger-
many. Hullo. Australia, New Zealand, South
Africa.” Follows a bit of Beethoven delight-
fully rendered by a dinner orchestra and a
tiresome speech by Herr von Somebody.
Then we are back in London for the even-
ing performance. And as the dawn gradually
creeps towards Australia, the Old World
slowly fades out; at sunrise England is
again 10,000 miles away.
PSYCHOANALAPHOBIA.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
For years my liver failed to live up to its
highest function;
My tummy was a civil war. At last I was
advised
To cut out all the drugs I’d tried, alone and
in conjunction.
And go and see a doctor chap who psycho-
analysed.
He delved into my ancestry, environment,
profession ;
Glared at my eyes and teeth, and tapped
me hard upon the knee.
Then joyously lie -murmured “Ah, a case of
Sox Suppression!”
And looked profound and solemn as he
pocketed his fee.
Oft-times I sup off prawns, a cray or festive
stout and oysters.
Dreams follow as the night the day these
gastronomic sins.
One night I dreamt that I and Brown (next
door) paced monkish cloisters.
The Psychoanalyst construed this dream
as meaning twins!
Haply Ambition stirs my breast. Its urgent
flames inspire
To sublimate what’s left of life, a king and
not a pawn.
Ali me, but when I learn that this is all
“suppressed desire,”
I fall from heights Olympian and sadly
mow the lawn !
And if perchance I cast an eye upon a
bunched banana,
An edible of which I am inordinately fond.
All. does the fruit intrigue with thoughts of
Fiji or Havana?
Nay! (I’ve been psycho-analysed) I’m
thinking of a blonde!
And so I plod along through life chock-full
of strange complexes;
And shudder when I think what my sub-
conscious mind instils.
I cannot pass a flapper now —she stirs up
my reflexes.
So, ev’rytliing considered, I’ll return again
to pills!
N.s.w.
THE IMMATURE MALE.


* V.
' l//
#
■■■•
/
I
v.
MW,
v/,
*!ir
<s= ■;.
W.
%
ffiii
/
€
M
m
%
/ / -
14U
-'- 2
H
m
Ziu.
S 3
m
m
&
< r
A
n, i
~r
V
r*
WJSjfWWW’
1«.A..„.„... . ...n^
BUY AUSTRALIAN MADE AND BUILD AUSTRALIAN TRADE
To Your Credit—
preference for Bond’s Half Hose
T3ECAUSE they fit well, look well, wear well
because every pattern is distinctive and
tasteful because there’s a colour combin-
ation that suits you right down to the ground,
preference for Bond’s Half Hose reflects the
greatest credit on your good ta£te and good
judgment.
And because Bond’s Half Hose are made in Australia,
you have the added satisfaction of knowing that your
purchase helps to improve Australia’s financial position
and balance her industrial budget.
From
2/11
per pair
Ask your mercer to show
Half Hose in the texture
The Style illustrated is P
the texture is artificial
price is 4/6 per pair.
you Bond’s
you prefer.
L.K. 221
silk the
5/11
Made in
wands
HALF - HOSE
In Mercerised Cotton, Silk and Cotton, Silk and
Wool, and All Pure Wool
Australia by the EMPLOYEES of GEO. A. BOND & CO. LTD
All States, New Zealand and South Africa


IT PAYS TO INVEST IN
PIONEER
LEATHER
BELTING
THE LEADER SINCE 1858.
This famous power transmitter has maintained the leading position for nearly 70 years
Made and Guaranteed hy
J. C. LUDOWICI <a SON, LIMITED
Pioneer House, 117 York Street, SYDNEY,
INTERSTATE and NEW ZEALAND AGENTS:
il
I
w
VICTORIA: Benson Bros., Ltd., 107-109
Queen’s Bridge Street, Melbourne.
QL KKXSLAN I): Hoey, Try, Ltd.,
Edward Street, Brisbane:
Burns, Philp ft Co., Ltd., Townsville
SOUTH AUSTRALIA: John McEell and
Sons. Timpson Street. Port Adelaide
WEST AUSTRALIA: Horace Summers.
Howard Street, Perth.
TASMANIA: Charles Davis, Ltd.,
Elizabeth Street, Ilohart.
NEW ZEALAND: Friar, Richards A
Upton, Auckland. Blackburn, Smith
A Co.. Christchurch.
NOBEL-CLASGOW EXPLOSIVES.
The Standard of Quality throughout the Empire.
Monobel
Samsonite
Gelatine Dynamite
Gelignite
Blasting Gelatine
Dynamite
Safety Fuse
Detonators
Cartridges
Hadfields
(AUSTRALIA) LIMITED
The largest and best-equipped Crushing Machinery Works in Australia.
JAW CRUSHERS —DISC CRUSHERS —GYRATORY CRUSHERS.
PORTABLE CRUSHING PLANTS COMPLETE QUARRY PLANTS.
Hadfields’ Manganese Steel Wearing Parts for all makes of Crushers.
Works and ) Alexandria, Sydney, N.S.W.
Foundries i Rassendean, Perth, W.A.
Branch ( 422 Collins Street, Melbourne, Vic.
Office j T. & G. Building, Brisbane, Q
The WILD CAT
COLUMN
The New Zealand Insurance Cos. :
Net To Re-
Profits. Dividends. serves. Reserves.
Nov., £ £ £ £
1918.. 202,211 121 p.c. = 75,000 127,211 916,946
Transferred to capital, £150,000 .. 765,946
1919.. 186,171 113 p.c. = 87,500 98,671 864,617
May,
1920.. 112,590 13J „ „ 50,000 62,590 927,207
1921.. 271,803 134 „ ~100,000 171,803 1,099,010
1922.. 52,592 134 „ ~100,000 1,051,602
1923.. 181,960 14.2 „ ~106,250 75,710 1,127,312
Taxation reserve not required 30,000 1,157,312
Transferred to capital, £150,000 .. 1,007,312
1924.. 186,257 124 p.c. =112,500 73,757 1,081,069
1925.. 243,331 13.2 „ ~118,750 124,581 1,205,650
Transferred to capital, £150,000 .. 1,055,650
1926.. 208,617 11.9 p.c. =125,000 83,617 1,139,267
1927.. 244,172 12* „ ~ 131,250 112,922 1,252,189
Transferred to capital, £150,000 .. 1,102,189
The tightening of the financial belt in Maorl-
land hasn’t done any harm to this old-estab-
lished and well-managed co., and the fifth
transfer of capital from reserves inside 11
years is announced, bringing the paid-up
proportion of the 20s. shares to 16s. Paid
capital has thus been quadrupled since 1912,
and the increment all came out of profits.
The year has been a good one. Premiums
and losses are both up compared with 1926,
but premiums win the race by close on
£25,000. The increase in the value of money
in M.L. is reflected in a fall in expenses
and in a reduction in the market value of
the shares —they were quoted in Fernland at
41s. a year ago and 395. 9d. just after the
issue _of last balance-sheet, notwithstanding
that it announced a gift distribution.
The feature of the latest disclosure that
will warm the cockles of every shareholder’s
heart is an actual drop in working expenses
and a comparative diminution of the expense
rate by over 3 per cent. Actual expenses are
the lowest since 1919, and the ratio to pre-
miums is the lowest recorded since 1921.
Details of the underwriting since ’95 are: —
Loss Expense
Rate. Rate.
Premiums. Losses. Expenses, p.c. p.c.
1895. . £267,917 £172,137 £79,203 64.2 29.6
1900.. 342,336 195,864 95,651 57.2 27.9
1905.. 425,991 273,698 111,677 64.2 26.2
1906.. 565,149 | 695 } 129,361 111.9 22.9
1910.. 605,509 391,321 172,593 64.5 28.5
1915.. 740,646 423,844 208,879 57.2 28.2
1918. . 1,215,087 644,232 387,798 53.2 31.9
1921 .. 1,275,230 768,469 344,253 60.3 27.0
1924. . 1,026,045 608,214 348,973 59.2 34.0
1925. . 1,072.761 603,650 342,334 56.2 31.9
1926. . 1,066,012 633,973 355,380 59.5 33.3
1927. . 1,121,425 664,684 338,588 59.3 30.2
♦General. tSan Francisco disaster.
Evidently the management has continued its
efforts to set its house in order—it never got
very much out of hand—and the business is
now on a demonstrably sounder basis than
it was a year ago, owing to the curtailment
of outgoings.
Assets continue to look impressive. Out
of the total of £2,744,277 no less than
£2,038,667 is represented by cash and public
securities. Earnings from investments were
better than in the previous year, and though
the dividend was higher—ls. 9d. a share
in place of Is. 8d. —the income from this
source paid all but £6OOO of the dividend to
shareholders. The tightening-up of interest
rates occasioned by the desire of the banks
to curtail over-importations is reflected in
the earnings to some extent, but the financial
institutions can’t take all the credit. The
Coates Government deserves some for saying
that an adverse trade balance was a good
reason for not leaning heavily on the pawn-
shop counter. Tlie healthier trend of affairs
due to the Spartan view the Fernlanders
take about such things gets an illustration
in the co.’s balance-sheet figures:—-
1914. 1926. 1927.
Paid capital . . £450,000 £1,050,000 £1,050,000
Liabilities . . . . 252,929 425,716 353,339
Public securities .. 521,979 1,758,594 1,845,803
Mortgages . . . . 195,409 34,717 33,967
Shares, etc 395 670 9,955
Freeholds . . .. 349,457 412,522 409,529
Agency balances and
cash . . .. 240,249 490,980 445,023
As was the case last year, reserves against
unexpired risks are £107,000 in excess of
the 40 per cent, allowance on premium in-
come usually considered adequate, and the
total funds (£2,302,000) are again more
than double the net premium income for the
period. Even after the next transfer of
reserves to capital there will still be avail-
able a call on shareholders to the tune of
£300,000, so that policy-holders are not
likely to spend sleepless nights. Share-
holders can see 38s. 6d. worth of assets be-
hind every share after making fair allow-
ance for.risks, and they are not likely to
worry either.
The trustee business of the co. shows con-
tinued steady expansion. The total of
trusts in hand has risen £400,000 since last
year—to £4,941,519. The statement doesn’t
indicate what the department earns—only
what it holds and owes —but doubtless it
helps to pay the rent.
* * *
The Australia Hotel Go., Ltd. (Syd-
ney)
r~ Dividends. ■, Nominal
Pref. Written Re-
Profits. 6 p.c. Ordinary. Off. serves.
June, £ £ £ £ £
1916.. 12,140 1980 6s p.c. = 10,000 48,098
1917.. 13,934 1980 6jf „ „ 10,000 13,354 36,698
1918.. 21,426 1980 8£ „ ~ 12,500 1,712 41,932
1919.. 20.290 1980 10 „ „ 15,000 45,242
1920.. 35,014 1980 124 „ „ 22,500 55,776
Transferred to capital, £25,000.. 30,776
1921.. 32,990 1980 10 p.c. = 25,000 36,786
1922.. 28,954 19S0 10 „ „ 25,173 38,587
1923.. 36,825 1980 10 „ „ 25.373 48,059
1924.. 37,486 1980 10 „ „ 25.373 58,192
1925.. 43.678 1980 10 „ „ 25,373 74,517
Asset written up, £108,352 .. 182,869
Transferred to capital, £79,292 .. 103,577
1926.. 54,253 1980 10 p.c. = 38,488 117,362
1927.. 55,138 1980 10 „ „ 38,917 131,603
Before the books were ruled off at June 30
£15,000 of the year’s earnings had been
added to general reserves and £2OOO to
machinery renewal account, which with
£38,138 from P. and L. makes the £55,138
of profits shown in the table. So the 10
p.c. to shareholders was easy enough. The
ratio of net earnings to paid capital was
13.1 p.c. last year; 10 p.c., 1922; 8 p.c.
1.917. Management played the leading part
in that improvement, though good seasons
and free spending were also fine performers.
The Federal. State and civic taxgatherers
were the villains of the piece, contributing
largely to the difficulties. Incidentally, the
reserves shown in the tabic are labelled
nominal because they are subject to £25,000
of goodwill.
The liquid position greatly improved :
1921. 1925. 1926. 1927.
Stock .. . . £23,544 £11,421 £12,121 £10,744
Book debts, etc. 5,358 5,949 6,611 31,126*
Cash, etc. .. 4,070 2,370 3,409 1,400
Liquid assets. . £32,972 £19,740 £22,141 £43,270
Liabilities .. 36,782 113,987 46,114 47,859
Excess liabilities £3,810 £94,247 £23,973 £4,589
Property and equip-
ment . . . . 287,904 444,173 552,524 552,524
*lncludes investments.
The £5142 of new capital that came in, to-
gether with the year’s surplus earnings,
apparently went into investments, which
together with book debts increased £23,345,
thus reducing excess liabilities to £4589.
The nature of the investments is not stated,
but they may be taken as well worth their
book values. Fixed assets were unchanged,
and that raises the question of depreciation.
The amount written off, if any, does not
appear in the sheet. However, it should be
noted that profits do not appear to have been
overstated in the past; that in the last three
years plant and equipment have been
added to and their earning capacity im-
proved while their book value has remained
steady at £67,524. Freehold, written up
£108,352 two years ago and now £485,000,
or equal to 81 p.c. of the tangible assets,
still appears to be in at a conservative
figure. The market judges the co. on its
past, with its numerous issues of capital on
very favorable terms, and for the ords. with
a net tangible and visible backing of 255. sd.
it pays 355. 6d. That figure yields the in-
vestor 5.6 p.c. p.a. on a 10 p.c. div.
❖ ❖ * $
The Port Jackson and Manly Steam-
ship Cos., Ltd. (Sydney) :
To Re-
June, Profits. Dividends. serves. Reserves.
1918.. £30,168 13J p.e.= £28,162 £2,006 £58,160
1919.. 27,752 131 „ „ 28,162 57,750
1920.. ? 13£ „ ~ 28,162 ? ?
Cos. reconstructed and split in two. Assets written up.
Two £1 shares paid to 15s. in new ferry co.
issued for every one similarly paid up in old co.,
ana aiso one fully-paid £1 6 p.c. participating
pref. share in subsidiary insurance co. for every
two in old co.
1921.. 25,870 6 p.c. = 25,345 525 2,891
1922.. 26,411 6 „ ~ 25,345 1,066 3,957
1923.. 32,186 6 „ ~ 25,345 6,841 10,798
1924.. 25,406 6 „ ~ 25,345 61 10,859
1925. ; 30,203 7 ~ „ 29,570 633 11,492
1926.. 25,003 7 „ 29,570 6,925
1927.. 2,727 Nil 2,727 9,652
For the first time in the past 20 years share-
holders have had to go hungry. Increased
running costs are responsible, the board says.
Compared with three years ago exes, are
£30,000 p.a. higher, while revenue from serr
vices has increased only £7OOO, most of the
increase in outgoings being due to the 44-
hour week, workers’ compensation, and
heavier coal and wages bills. Of course
the co. wants to get some or all of it back
from the public, wherefore at once the fig-
ures fall under suspicion. For over seven
months the Manly Council, from which the
co. holds a lease of the Manly wharf, has
stolidly refused to grant a request rur tlie
right to charge an increased fare. Only last:
week, after the co. had found a way to cir-
cumvent the fares clause in its lease, did the
Council agree to an increase of Is. in the
weekly ticket rate, raising it to 4s. 6d.
The co.’s real position largely depends
upon what provision it makes out of its
earnings for depreciation. If it overprovides,
then profits are better than stated. Look-
ing back over the last 20 years the board’s
policy in the matter of writing oft' has been
unquestionably a very liberal one. The
writing up of assets and the numerous
bonus issues illustrate that. In the last re-
construction, seven years ago, the book value
of steamers was multiplied by three, and
bonus scrip handed out for the difference.
But look at balance-sheet figures now:—
1922. 1926. 1927.
Liquid assets .. £45,961 £82,089 £79,947
Liabilities .. . . 47,432 3,290 15,815
Excess liabilities £1,471 -
Surplus assets . . £78,799 £64,132
Fixed assets . . £440,525 £365,336 £367,945
The improvement in the liquid position and
the decrease in value of fixed assets since
1922 suggests that substantial provision for
depreciation has been made since that date.
On the other hand, indications are that over
the past four years the co.’s position has
improved little, and not at all in the past
year. The growth in the liquid surplus was
£38,747, £26,447 and £10,406 respectively
for the three years to June 30, 1926, fol-
lowed by a shrinkage of £14,667 last year.
Movements in the book value of the fleet,
which has not been added to, were in sym-
pathy. There the contractions were £38,097,
£24,205 and £18,340 for the three years to
1926, followed by an expansion of £6760
last year. These figures mean that, whereas
in the earlier years money was put by for
the replacement of vessels, last year more
money was spent on repairs, etc., than was
charged against revenue to cover deprecia-
tion. But the increased fare should greatly
improve the position by next balance, not-
withstanding the added cost of child endow-
ment.
Since 1920 four 6 p.c. and two 7 p.c.
divs. have been paid, but with costs steadily
mounting and difficulties in the way of in-
creasing the fare, things are not what they
used to be by any means, and the investor
cannot expect a repetition of the rich times
of the past. The £1 shares paid to 15s.
are soiling at 14s. 6d.
* * * *
Assurance and Thrift Association,
Ltd. (Sydney) :
Added Assur-
,, _ to ance
Mar., Revenue. Claims. Expenses.* Funds. Fun is.
1917. £13,021 £lO3l £5756 £6,234 £25,593
1918.. 14,321 2258 5868 6.195 31,788
Transferred to contingencies reserve, £395 31.393
1919.. 16,587 3041 5943 7,603 38,996
1920.. 18,703 3031 7041 8,631 47,627
1921.. 24,022 2718 8131 13,173 60,800
1922.. 21,473 2299 8382 } Q ~ 0 „ ro .
Transferred to reserve fund, £IOOO ) /0.u9.
1923.. 26.045 5002 9173 11,870 82,462
1924.. 31.704 3736 8070 19,898 102,360
1925.. 27,495 6511 9892 ) „ noo
Transferred to reserve fund, £2OOO ) J
1926.. 33,101 5783 11.581 15,737 127.189
1927.. 34,078 8420 11,889 13,769 140,953
including divs.: 1912-18, 4 p.e. ; 1919, 5 p.e.;
1920, 6 p.e. ; 1921-23, 7 p.e. : 1924-27, 8 p.c.
This unique little office continues to plug
along slowly, safely and profitably. It can-
not now, nor could it ever, claim the big
figures written by some of the “1920’’ shows.
But it can point to steady returns; to busi-
ness won at a fairly low cost in the life
department; to surpluses sufficient to pay
bonuses to policy-holders, with a little over
for shareholders. Paid capital is a modest
£23,333, representing 70,000 £1 shares called
to 6_s. Bd. For the 12 months, 485 new
, policies were written, assuring £105,378, and
yielding an annual income of £4262 —some-
what better than the previous year, although
the number of policies taken out was smaller.
Interest, divs. and rents brought in £9521,
with £2269 profit on investments. The A.
and T. assumes interest earnings of 31 p.c.
in its calculations of policy liabilities. Actu-
ally the return on average funds was £8 16s.
p.c.—a remarkably high rate; in 1926 it was
£lO 2s. p.e. And that calls attention to the
other side of the A. and T.’s character. With
its ultra-conservatism it mixes speculative
enterprise. It dabbles in land purchases for
sale by subdivision. Everything, therefore,
depends on control; and the fact that
managing-director Dovey (he is also actuary
to the co.) was trained in the old school, is
largely responsible for the eo.’s position.
Of assets totalling £182.505, £38,068 was in
freehold property and £24,354 in shares in pub-
lic cos., much of the latter being in a land and
building investment subsidiary. Other prin-
cipal assets were: “Property loans being
repaid, including profit in course of realisa-
tion,” £24,653; loans on mortgages, £61,547.
Those items represent more than 80 p.c. of
the total. Of the balance, loans on policies
accounted for £10,018; Govt, securities,
£7962 ; deposits and cash, £5123 ; bank shares,
£5238. Liabilities were lighter at £4843.
The assurance fund was £140,958, and there
were, in addition, general reserves of £7136.
The triennial valuation at March 31 showed
a surplus of £14,961, and policy-holders got
the benefit of £11,183. The tendency to place
the funds in better quality securities is worth
noting.
The co. does a little fire and accident busi-
ness ; although the former improved, the
latter fell away, because the board refused
to accept risks under the N.S.W. Workmen’s
Compensation Act. As the administration
of that law has been quite sane, and as risks
under it can in consequence be measured with
a reasonable degree of accuracy, the direc-
tors were at latest report thinking of going
into the business. Claims were higher at
33 p.c., and exes, (including taxes) absorbed
no less than 64 p.c. of premium income.
Something certainly needs to be done to im-
prove the latter figure. Reserves were solid
enough, amounting to £5924, or almost four
times tlie amount necessary to cover unex-
pired risks.
Equity Trustees, Executors and
Agency Cos. (Melbourne) :
To Re-
June, Profit. Dividends. serves. Reserves.
1918.. £8,780 14 p.c. = £7,000 £1730 £25,247
1919.. 9,260 14 ~ „ 7,000 2260 27,507
1920.. 11,898 16 „ „ 8,000 3898 31,405
1921.. 9,117 14 „ „ 7,000 2117 33,522
1922.. 13,640 10* ~ „ 8,250 5390 38,912
1923.. 13,769 19 ~ „ 9,500 4269 43,181
1924.. 15,289 19 ~ „ 9,500 5789 48,970
Transferred to capital, £25,000.. 23,970
1925.. 14,145 14 p.c. = 10,500 3645 27,615
1926.. 13,355 16 „ „ 12,000 1355 28,970
1927.. 19,123 18 ~ ~ 18,500 5623 34,593
Testators and others piled this co.’s plate
high last year. The record net earnings
were equal to 254 p.c. of paid capital ami
after handing shareholders an extra 2 p.c.
enough remained to pay another 74 p.c.
Old holders have had a royal time. In
1916 paid capital was only £25,000; it has
advanced to its present £75,000 by two gift-
issues of £25,000 each. That is to say, last
year’s 18 p.c. div. was equal to 54 p.c.
on the 1016 capital. And the reserves arc
piling up nicely again.
The amount of trusts in hand is not
disclosed, but; the following figures give a
clue to the expansion :
Earnings. Expenses.
1910 .. .. £17,131 £8,673
1920 .. .. 26,673 14,580
1923 . . . . 34,506 20,669
1924 . . . . 36,105 20,740
1925 . . . . 37,467 22.344
1926 . . . . 39,086 24,813
1927 . . . . 47,091 27,030 •
Again the year’s rich harvest shows up.
Exes, ate up only 57.5 p.c. of the year’s
earnings compared with 63.4 p.c. in 1926, and
an average of 59.5 p.c. for the last five
years. The financial position, as usual, is
excellent. The co. did not owe a penny at
June 30. On the other hand it had
£59.477 in public securities; cash £4050:
book debts £37,571 and premises, etc..
£16,933. No doubt when the board can
see its way to do so with safety, reserves
will be again dipped into. The scrip is
well held; buyers at 345. 6d. fail to find
sellers. On last year’s div. that figure would
show the investor a shade over 5 p.c.
Hetton Bellbird Collieries, Ltd.
(N.S.W.)
, Dividends
r Prefs. To Re- Re-
June, Profit. 7 p.c. Ordinaries. serves, serves.
1921. .£58.970 £283 121 p.c. =£49.494 £9193 £9.193
1922*.. 52,169 193 121 „ ~ 49,656 2320 11,513
1923.. 39,633 169 9 „ „ 35,780 3684 15.197
Premiums on new shares. £1521 .. 16.718
1924.. 4,903 Nil Nil 4903 21.621
Loss.
1925.. 4.038 339 21 p.c. = 11.189 6,055
Profit.
1926.. 35.951 168 8 „ „ 35,805 0,033
1927.. 48,319 81 10 „ „ 44,847' 3391 9,424
Clear of the troubles which followed the ex-
plosion and fire in No. 1 mine on Sept. 1,
1923, the co. is quickly regaining its place
as a big profit-maker. Net earnings im-
proved £12,368 last year, and were equal to
10 p.c. of paid capital compared with 8 p.c.
in the previous year. A creditable perform-
ance, since much time was lost through
stoppages during the last half of the period.
The dit., lifted from 8 to 10 p.c., ate up
93 p.c. of net visible earnings, and reserves
at £9424 look small. Everything, however,
is not on view. Last year anew main haul-
age, which is expected to help costs, was
installed in No. 1 mine, and No. 2 is being
steadily developed; but the property and
plant account were not affected —the things
were paid for out of earnings. Of course it
doesn’t follow that true profits were that
much larger. Against the purchases, etc..
made out of revenue must be set the wear
and tear on both mine and plant to produce
the revenue.
Balance-sheet figures reflect the year’s
activity:—
1922. 1925. 1926. 1927.
Debentures . . £30,625 £21,437 £18,375 £15,313
Overdraft.. .. 6,345 24,563 9,176 47.977
Sundry creditors.. 36,552 21,919 13,887 19,765
Property and plant 383,594 425,587 431,502 431.576
Stores . . . . 18,997 7,899 6,946 10,655
Stocks .. . . 2,107 3,200 4,085 4,08)
Book debts . . 59,177 44,734 15,285 56,094
Public securities,
deposits and cash 41,117 48,731 52,289 60,534
Shares in other cos. 9,933 9,933 9,933 9,933
Excluding shares in other cos., the liquid


THEY ARE NOT FORGOTTEN.
"The Cenotaph, in Martin-place, Sydney, was dedicated on Monday.”


OVERTRADING.
Some Stocks in Danger.
See the
“ Wild Cat’ Monthly”
AUGUST NUMBER ON SALE.
SINGLE COPY, 2/-
PER ANNUM, 22/6.
Principal Newsagents,
or
‘The Bulletin” Offices,
Sydney or Melbourne.
We stock -)- GF -|- Malleable Fittings to suit
every requirement, and as there are over 7500
varieties to choose from, we can accommodate any
trade. For water, steam or gas. Will not split or
crack, and are correct in every detail. Obtainable
fiom William Adams & Co., Ltd., Sole Agents.
Sydney, Newcastle, Melbourne, Brisbane, Adelaide,
Berth.—Advt.
Pioneer Wood Pipe is unrivalled as a modern
economical highly efficient conduit. It can be trans-
ported and installed in a fraction of the time and
at a fraction of the cost required by metal pipes. It
costs less to maintain and carries more water because
it cannot rust nor corrode. Its interior bore remains
permanently free of all deposits or growths, ensuring
full pressure flow at all times. It also lasts longer,
and costs less to buy. The Australian Wood Pipe Co.,
Ltd., Burns Bay Itoad, Lane Cove, N.S.W. (Ferry
to Figtree) ; and at Footscray, Vic. —Anvr.
❖ ❖ :•! *
Gecko]; Walk (Established 100 years), Land and
Income Tax Adjuster, Wall House, 18 Loftus-street,
Sydney, will prepare and lodge all Income Tax
returns.— Advt.
Patents.—Have you an idea worth patenting?
Griffith & Hassel, Patent Attorney, 77 Castlereagh
Street, Sydney, obtain Commonwealth and foreign
patents.— Advt.
* * * *
llJliAS —Commonwealth and Foreign Patents
obtained. Coi.mmon & Co., 183 Collins St-oet, Mel-
bourne, and Adelaide. Thirty veins' practice. Write
us for Inventors' Guide. —Advt.
* * * *
If you are a producer of ores, mattes, metals and
metalliferous residues of any kind, Burkard and
Co., Ltd., 26-30 Bridge Street, Sydney, are buyers
for U.K., Continent of Europe and U.S.A. smelters,
and will pay you the highest prices and give you
best terms. Advances made against ore —and market
information, prices, assays at your disposal. Send
samples and particulars.— Advt.
H? ❖ H* #
Leplastiuers’ Concrete Mixers —of all necessary
sizes—are designed and manufactured in Australia by
expert engineers. Apply Goldsbrough House, Sydney;
Collins House, Melbourne; 164 Edward Street, Bris-
bane : or 21 Morphett Street, Adelaide. — Advt.
* * * *
a high-class line of Italian Microscopes, known as
the “Koristka,” pronounced by eminent authorities to
be equal to tlie best German instruments, are now
being offered by Messrs. Felton, Grimwade k Co.
Ptv.r Ltd.. Melbourne, who have been appointed
sole Australian agents. Inquiries will be promptly
responded to. — Advt.
■ * * * *
Hydraulic Power Electric and Hydraulic Lifts
Limited (incorporated by Act of Parliament,
1888), hydraulic, electric and general engineers, lift
specialists. Maintenance and repairs of all classes of
lifts and other machinery. Mercantile Mutual Build-
ing. 14 Martin Place, Sydney.— Advt.
All Right!
I’ll meet you at
YOUNG $ JACKSON'S
The place of meeting of all men on
business and pleasure.
Standing on MELBOURNE’S most
historic corner, everybody who knows
MELBOURNE knows—
Young & Jackson’s,
on the corner of
Flinders and Swanston Streets..
Everybody who visits MELBOURNE wants to
see the FAMOUS PICTURE GALLERY, in
which is i ncluded the world-renowned “Chloe."
First-class accommodation for visitors.
Nothing but the best in all liquors.
J. A. SAFE, Prop.
As Showing the Popularity of the
“CURVILINEAR” in South Africa
Our Bulawayo Agents assure us that, although all well-known concentrators are
represented there, the only Tables sold in Rhodesia for quite a long time are
"Curvilinears.”
Our Agents have just cabled us for ano ther shipment to Durban.
GUTHRIDGE, LTD • 9 Patentees and Manufacturers,
CAMPERDOWN, SYDNEY.
Queensland
Insurance Co.
Ltd.
Head Office:
Pitt & Bridge Streets,
Sydney.
The Largest
Australian Company
transacting
Fire, Marine, Personal
Accident and Sickness,
Burglary, Live Stock,
Public Risk, Boiler Ex-
plosion, Workers’ Com-
pensation, etc., etc.
surplus was £37,654. which was
stronger. The overdraft increased £38.801.
but on the other side book deln.s were
£40,809 heavier. This looks as if develop-
ment has been pushed ahead vigorously, and
that no difficulty was experienced in finding
a market for the increased output. 1 he
quality of Bellbird coal has long attracted
buyers and its standard shows no signs of
decline. The co.'s prospects for the current
year are good, subject of course to indus-
trial troubles. The market thinks not only
of stoppages and their effect upon profits,
but also of the big number of shares in this
c 0.—447,664 ordinaries and 2300 prefs.. all
paid—and pays no more than 245. 9d. for
the scrip. That figure shows the investor a
shade over 8 p.c. p.a., on a 10 p.c. div. basis.
* * * *
The Kurrajong AND Blue Mountains
Hotels, Ltd. (Sydney).—This is an attrac-
tive proposition. The idea is to acquire the
Imperial and Mt. Victoria hotels at Mt.
Victoria and the Black Horse at Richmond,
transferring the license of the _ last-named
to new premises at Kurrajong Heights. Golf
courses will be made at both Kurrajong
and Mt. Victoria; and if they are attractive
the success of well-conducted hotels along-
side is certain. The public is offered 90,000
£1 shares; 10,000 go for options and other
services; and after paying for the existing
hotels, acquiring land for the courses and
making them, building and furnishing the
Kurrajong Hotel and taking a mortgage of
£lB 000, it is reckoned that £18,400 will De
available for working capital and contingen-
cies. The outlay looks modest, but is sup-
ported by the estimates of trustworthy
people; the loading for promotion, etc., is
not excessive; the hotels acquired should
return an immediate profit; and the board
commands respect.
! 'erktns and 00., Ltd. —Shareholders in
(Ids Queensland brewing concern have re-
ceived an interesting note from the co.’s
auditors —Thompson and Sharland and IV.
(Ilorstmann and Son—disowning the last
balance-sheet as issued by the board because
(1) it does not disclose the true position of
the co., and (2) it was not signed by them.
The position, they say, is that the board
issued the balance-sheet as duly certified
before the audit was completed. The accounts
as published agreed with the books, but two
items, affecting income and expenditure, had
been omitted from the latter. If taken into
account they would have increased the year’s
profit £3673, making it £27,531, and affected
debtor and creditor items. In addition the
hoard had guaranteed no less than £108,436
to banks and others' on account of customers,
and made no mention of the fact in the
published sheet. Such contingent liabilities
would, of course, be offset by contra, but
the co. would have to foot the bill if cus-
tomers failed to do so. What makes the
amount of contingent debt important in this
ease is that the liquid surplus has slipped
back. It was £175,292 in 1922 and only
£6736 last year.
Edio Creek Consolidated is the latest New
Guinea flotation on the market in Sydney.
It is to work seven alluvial river leases,
ranging from 18 to 100 acres and averaging
five chains wide on either bank; hydraulic
sluicing is suggested. The ground is on the
junction of the Edie Creek and the Bulolo.
Above them are the well-proved Royal leases,
which have been the subject of so much con-
tention. Below them, on the Bulolo, are
the Guinea Gold holdings, also fairly well
p’-o'-ed as rich ground. And apparently that’s
all. that can be said; the usual preliminary
testing does not seem to have been done on
the ground itself. There is no mention of
values, at any rate, and no figures of esti-
mated yardage. Which is asking the public
to judge, a sausage by its neighbors, on the
string. As to the flotation, nominal capital
is £150,000 in £1 shares; 85,000 shares are
for sale. The other 65,000 go to the vendor
—a syndicate with which W. G. Royal is
connected. In addition the vendor is to
receive £14,000 from the £42,500 to be sub-
scribed by the public. For that money it
should have given the public a first-rate
man’s report on the property itself.
H* ❖ * *
Petroleum has been struck in Maoriland
by the Murchison Oil Cos., about 100 miles
south of Nelson. Samples of oil from 2305 ft.
were taken on July 5. and the analysis gave
64.5 p.c. of motor-spirit, which is extremely
high ; 32 p.c. kerosene and 3.5 p.c. of black
oil made up the balance. This was a light,
filtered oil. which usually precedes heavier
and unfiltered oil. The latter is generally
found lower down in a bed of porous sand-
stone. Two samples of gas were taken and
analysed by the' Dominion analyst, who
reported that the proportion of ethane and
methane proved the gas to be natural
or petroliferous gas. The borehole at
latest report had reached 2612 ft. in sand-
stone. The nresence of natural gas is a
most encouraging feature.
* * * *
New Red, White and Blue, Bendigo, may
have anew life. In the south shaft sinking
has just finished, and they are preparing for
crosscutting to a reef with a big cap going
as high as 100 ft. above the saddle. From
the old shaft to the north the spurs to the
west of the cap were very profitable. Levels
will be extended at 1687 ft. and 1747 ft. At
the levels above these, the reefs were always
enriched when intersected by a cross-course.
A winze tested these spurs below the 1600 ft.
level and proved them payable. There is
about 700 ft. of the cap of the reef to be
worked. The co. has bought the leases of
Lansell’s Prop, and the South Red, White
and Blue, and it looks as though the famous
old mine has another good chance.
Bowonga tin field, in the difficult Mitta
Mitta (Vic.) country, is being very slowly pros-
pected. The (in lodes lie on a plateau 8000 ft.
above sea level, and transport is costly. An
aerial ropeway is essential, yet its installa-
tion is not likely until more <stuff has been
proved. Bowonga Tin Cos. has done the
right thing in shipping 10 tons of ore from
three lodes. Nos. 4, 11 and 20. to Bischoff.
No. 11 lode is Oft. wide at 25ft. down and
is said to bulk p.c. tin. No. 20 lode
formation is 40ft. wide, and runs from
nothing to 11 p.c. There are several small
prospecting parties at work under distressing
conditions. An amalgamation might make
things easier. It would simplify the raising
of capital, and if that were available roads
might be made, for a start.
He He He He
The Queensland Cabinet has made no
announcement of future policy regarding
Chillagoe, and northern mining still remains
dead except for tin-getting. During June
a combined survey of local data was under-
taken by a geologist and a metallurgist,
the latter formerly attached to the staff
there. Their report lias probably been con-
sidered. Dr. Jensen, who has just returned
from North Queensland, has castigated the
inaction of the Government. His own
panacea for Chillagoe evils is mainly con-
centration, including a zinc-flotation plant.
But he has advocated this for the past five
years without making an impression, and
Clayton’s rejection of Mt. Garnet, which
was looked at on behalf of Broken Hill
interests, has not helped official opinion to-
wards zinc-flotation schemes.
* * * *
Professor Woolnongh, on behalf of the
Commonwealth Government, has just con-
ferred with the Queensland Advisory Oil
Committee, and has now gone for a general
survey of the Roma-Longreach belt with
L. C. Ball, of the State Department. Wool-
nougli urged the committee to set the Geo-
logical Survey on the job with detailed
surveys accompanied by scout-boring. For
this work the Commonwealth will subsidise
Queensland £1 for £l. It is the only thing
to and and seeing that the staff is
specially equipped for the work. Woolnough’s
slogan is no boring before survey, with the
exception of shallow scout-boring designed
to get dip slopes; this is necessary owing to
the paucity of natural outcrops and the pos-
sible presence of unconformities. It is use-
ful to recall that the present Longreach
boring is totally founded on the Queensland
geologists’ reports of the Longreach Shire
bore, where the water brought up con-
siderable deposits of mineral wax- —in
fact. much the greatest petroliferous
display obtained in Queensland if not
in Australia. Ball reckoned that if the
water had been cemented off there was a
possibility of it developing as a flowing oil
bore.
* * *
Sardine North’s tunnel, Kangaroo Hill
(N.Q.), reported by the “Wild Cat” some
weeks ago as having cut a promising forma-
tion on the line of the old Sardine, has failed
to locate the continuation of the rich shoots
of that mine. The position looks pretty
dismal at present, for they have driven 70ft.
since they first struck promising indications
on the hanging-wall side.
He ❖
Although Sons of Gwalia (W.A.) banked
£155,229 worth of gold last year and cut
costs to the bone, it showed a loss of £3054
after ear-marking £2988 for depreciation.
The ore treated was simply too poor to make
ends meet under present working conditions.
The co. is inclined to sell up and get out, and
probably will.
* * * *
White Hope (W.A.). once described by
Herbert Daly as one of nature’s greatest
goldmines, closed down the other day. At
the time Daly ventured an opinion it looked
promising, but values decreased in depth.
A local syndicate took possession after the
White Hope Cos. had. had enough and for
some years mined in a small way with vary-
ing success.
* * * *
South Kalgurli (W.A.) dug £191,004 out
of its mine last year, and after providing for
everything and paying everybody, it had
£31,941 left plus £897 brought forward.
Divs. aggregated 2s. 6d. per share, leaving
£1587 to be carried forward. Ore reserves
still represent over three years’ supplies at
the present rate of treatment.
* * * *
A good many July returns from Malay-
Siam are larger than usual, due more to a
run of luck than better yardage values.
There was a lot of wasted time in various
plants during May and .Tune. Rawang’s
figures are apt to vary. The June return
was 30 tons from the dredge and 35 tons
from the sluicing plant, the turnover being
123,000 c.y. for the dredge and 95.000 c.y. for
the sluicing. The July return was 25 tons
from 04,000 yards dredged and 50 tons from
95,000 yards sluiced. A solid increase in
output and value, and better than the co.
has shown for some time. Malim Nawar,
19 tons from 109,000 yards, slipped—appa-
rently it is again in more difficult country.
Nawar South, 40 tons from 140,000 yards,
kept up to its .Tune performance of 45 tons
from 161000 yards, working 98 hours less,
and promises now to prove a big steady pro-
ducer. Ivundang the Uncertain had a fairly
full run of 558 hours as against 221 in
June: output 30 tons from 160,000
yards. So for once it reached its estimate
of 30 tons per month. Kuala Kampar’s 22
tons from 141,000 c.y. is much the same as
the June 30 tons from a larger turnover.
This Kinta Valley show is not nlaying up
to boring estimates. Ronpibon, for a wonder,
got in a full month, but its 24 tons from
96,000 yards shows a heavy drop on its
June averages, when 11 tons were cleaned
up from 21,000 yards in 182 hours. The
big Larut combine’s 102 tons was 5 tons
below the June figures, and Tin Ben tong
maintained its record with a 34.2 tons out-
put from 105,000 yards.
* •!' * *
A sharp rise in tin is difficult to account
for, though the failure of some of the
Malayan cos. to deliver may be the cause.
The jump (to £298 2s. 6d.) last week
amounted to £6; but_ the market eased
later. It may be that big buyers are looking
ahead, and getting in supplies in anticipation
of a bump-up about September, when the
annual American extra-keen demaud is due.
One of Australia’s very few big buyers
has certainly been picking up all the tin
plugs lie could lay his hands on.
* * ❖ *
Sydney Siam, a Sydney holding co., with
a large ’ area under license near Renong
(Siam), known as Bangkok, proposes to
increase authorised capital to £50,000 —it
stands at present at £30.000 in £1 shares.
It will issue 20,000 new shares at 20s. each
at the discretion of the directors. A sub-
sidiary co. will doubtless follow. The Bang-
kok area under license runs to thousands
of acres. Close boring of 290 acres by G. W .
Reid and H. Bethune, the co.’s engineers,
has shown 13oz. and an average depth of
35 feet.
* ❖ ❖ *
The Commonwealth Malaya has turned
down its Bang Phre option, in Siam, and is
now on the West Renong. The first 10
million yards scout-bored were worth 14oz„
and further testings have resulted in another
35 million yards of believed-payable dirt
being disclosed. Check boring is now in.pro-
gress on this area.
❖ * Ms *
“Eagle”: “Wild Cat” (21/7/’27) says
of Phin Soon that, though open-casting is
notoriously expensive, this show is "too far
advanced in the open-cast stage for dredge-
working. Modern and improved methods
seem to be the co.’s only hope.” Open-casting
is not necessarily expensive and Sungei
Besi open-casts (100 ft. deep) at 6.72 and. per
c.y.: Gopeng Consolidated (120 ft. deep). 3d;
Kinta, 5.14 and. (and it paid 235. per share
in divs. for 1922-26). There is. tin-bearing
clay in Phin Soon, but the co.’s fechnicsil
advisers and others have reported that it
presents no difficulty. The previous Chinese
owner paid Government tax on over 51b. per
c.y. recovered. High tin returns from bores
don’t always mean much; but in this case
there is enrichment where the granite and
limestone make contact; similar enrichment
occurs in the mine next door (Chinese Tin,
Ltd.), at 150 ft., and for months past this
property has yielded form 100 to 120 tons
per month from about 30,000 c.y.
* *, * *
Malay Siamese, an F.M.S. co. with
Sydney affiliations, is already the proud
parent of Nawng Pet, Phin Soon, Hand
Yai and Huey Yot; the first a sluicing
show, the second an open-cut. the others
dredging propositions. A. J. King is chair-
man, and 11. V. Seale, late of B. H. Junction
North, supervising engineer. Now it has
taken over the Nai Hoot, a West Siam
bucket-dredging show, lately owned by a co.
formed in Melbourne in 1923; it was then
a sluicing concern, the Nai Hoot Juita.
Various vicissitudes followed, with a partial
reconstruction, until it has come under the
banner of Malay Siamese. A man who
knows it tells the “Wild Cat” that it was
a pretty good show, badly managed.
* * * *
H. C. Millard on aerial surveys :
A recent Bulletin commented upon proposed
aerial surveys in New Guinea. As I am the first
geologist to use an aerial survey for oil geological
work in Australasia, and, so far as I am aware, the
first to use the method in any part of the world, I can
speak definitely of the value of the results to be
expected.
I made an aerial survey of the Belford and
LochinVar domes in the Hunter River district
(N.S.W.) about two years ago, with Captain Percival
as pilot. This is a region readily accessible anti which
had already been geologically surveyed iii considerable
detail; yet important information was obtained from
a ;.Tidy of the photographs as well as from personal
observation In aerial traverse.
Every topographical feature has a possible meaning
to a geologist interpreting tile structure of a region,
and geological structure is always an important if
not the first consideration to a prospector for oil.
Nothing can reveal the surface features of an area
better than photography. The great value of this
was proved during the war, and since then considerable
progress has been made in adapting the method to
topographic mapping. By combining vertical and
oblique photographs taken simultaneously, under navi-
gational control, together with methods of re-section,
large areas may be mapped with reasonable accuracy
and at comparatively small cost.
It may be confidently expected that in a vast
tropical region like Papua and New Guinea, extremely
difficult to traverse, an aerial survey will reveal facts
of great importance to an oil geologist. The Minister
for Horne and Territories is to be complimented upon
his decision to use the method as well as upon his
determination to find oil supplies for Australia.


is
Mm
■m
THE very breath of the
Scottish moors has
been distilled into this
superb old whisky the
quality of which can
be confidently said to be
unequalled in any market.
Connoisseurs the wor Id
over choose it always as
the best of all stimulants
and the highest expression
of hospitality. Look for
the Gold Label.
The accompanying illustration will show the
get'up of the new brand, which is now obtain'
able from our agents everywhere at the same
price as ruled for “Top Notch.”
THE DISTILLERS AGENCY, LIMITED
EDINBURGH ' ' ' SCOTLAND
GOLD
label
Mqjf^soryslV
B2}
Wlltfe OF SCOTCH WHISKY,
Gdimbutrgfv.
m m
matured in
PRODUCED IN SCOTLAND


HENDERSON’S
WHIPS
Famous Throughout Australia.
Cost a Few Shillings More but
Reckon the Ultimate Saving.
A Genuine “HENDERSON”
Bft. 12-Plait Double Whip,
Complete, 42/6.
7ft. . . . 40/- 9ft. . . . 467-
PERFECT FALLING.
SATISFACTION GUARANTEED.
Postage Paid Anywhere in Australia.
Add Exchange to Cheques.
T. Henderson 8 Sons,
Whipmakers,
313 GEORGE ST., SYDNEY, N.S.W.
•im.
)
\ 'jtl ..
\ In
HOLLANDCJN
Jr,
A SK for BolsVeTy Old Holland
A Gin in the STONE Bottle,
or Bols Silver Cap Dry Gin in
the Square Glass Bottle with
the Green Label.
Usher’s Hotel Ltd
Castlereagh Street, Sydney.
A first-class new and up-to-date
modern hotel.
Running hot and cold water in all bid-
rooms and many have Bath de Luie.
Automatic bedside telephones.
English and Trench Cuisine.
New Marble Bar, spacious and airy.
For perfection of service, comfort
and cleanliness, Usher’s Ltd. is un-
equalled.
Inclusive Terms, apply
MANAGER
PERSONAL
ITEMS
Bernard Olde, who defeated J. J. Fitz-
gerald, sometime N.S.W. Minister for Local
Government, in the Leichhardt .Labor pre-
selection ballot, has been pegging away at
plebiscites for two decades. He was one
of the 27 original members of the Clerks’
Union. Olde is well known in Leichhardt,
and local popularity had a lot to do with
his victory.
Tom Mutch’s popularity in Botany might
win him the seat against Heffron, who
beat him in the Labor ballot, but
a job with the A.W.U. to organise the
publication of the World, by way of fight-
ing the Lang crowd within the movement, is
a possible alternative. Mutch held liis
A.W.U. ticket when a mere boy, and is a pet
of the organisation. From the hush he came
to the Worker as a clerk, later graduating
in journalism on that paper.
E. H. WREFORD, general manager of
the National Bank of Australasia.
Major Jimmy Loynes, D. 5.0.. who has
just been re-oloetcd president of Queensland
African Veterans’ Association, was an
Ipswich builder before he chased the bubble
reputation in Boerland as a sergeant-major
in the Ist Q.M.I. Later came a commission
with the sth Q. 1.8. and a return to the sliel-
tered life. Tlie Great War saw Loynes a
major in the sth and, later, the 11th A.L.H.
On his return he was Deputy-Commissioner
for War Service Homes in Queensland.
A. It. Gardiner, the schoolmaster-politician
who represented Newcastle as a Labor mem-
ber and later, following the split over con-
scription, as an Independent, will be the
Nationalist candidate for Bankstown at the
N.S.W. election. He had to stand the
racket of a selection ballot, but he is used to
that. He can recall an A.L.P. meeting
where the candidates for a party nomination
( Gardiner was one) had to answer the ques-
tion : “Do you believe that the worker should
get the full product of his labor?” “Yes,”
said one aspirant, “and 10 per cent, more.”
C o ngratulations
willbeseutori Satur-
day, August 13,
to Frank Tate, Vic.
Director of Educa-
tion. who is in the
Cold Land, on the
attainment of his
golden jubilee as
an officer of the
Education Depart-
ment. Coming in
as a pupil teacher,
Tate was in turn
senior teacher, in-
spector, head of the
training college
and permanent
head; he was ap-
pointed director
25 i years ago,
when lie was 38.
He has 10 months
to run before he is
due for retirement
on a pension of
£lOOO a year.
FRANK TATE,
Vic. Director of
Education.
J. It. McGregor, who follows Walter Gale
as clerk of the Reps., has come up with a
rush in an institution where promotion is
not rapid. Not so long ago he was sergeant-
at-arms ; there stood between him and his
latest post Hubert and Clapin as well as
Gale. Hubert died suddenly, and Clapin re-
tired only a few weeks before Gale was
struck down.
Gaol has its compensations for the unduly
adipose. Horatio Bottomley is reported to
have left two or three stone of highly-super-
fluous flesh behind the bars. Much the same
thing was said about Arthur Orton, the Tich-
borne Claimant, when he returned to free-
dom in 1884. The Wagga butcher who dis-
appeared from public view was a huge Fal-
stafli of a man whose weight had once sent
him clean through the floor of a London
“growler”; he emerged quite a reasonable
size and took up his old recreation of
pigeon-shooting with increased proficiency.
Orton, however, served 10 years—twice as
much as Bottomley.
George Tucker, of Adelaide,_ who died in
London recently, won fame in a field as
foreign to the average worshipper of pugilists
and jockeys as archeology. A mighty
breeder of bloodstock dahlias and chrysan-
themums, he won hatfuls of championships
in Australian and English shows. His great-
est triumph, the red dahlia which he named
after himself, won probably more prizes
than any herb of its kind. Tucker was a
builder in Adelaide (S.A.), but he retired
in 1925 to go to England. In lus younger
days he was a pole-vaulter and walker of
note.
Tetley Grant, who has just resigned his
seat in the Speck’s Legislative Council be-
cause of ill-health, held two records: he
represented Buckingham for more than a
quarter of a century without a break and
had been President of the Council since
1907. A Melbourne visitor pointed Grant
out to a Sydney friend with the remark:
“That’s Grant, the politician.” YY hat!
came the astonished reply, “Donald Grant .
I thought he was a much younger man.
Philip Charley, of Belmont Park (N.S.W.),
has been elected president of the Hawkes-
bury Agricultural Society for the 25th con-
secutive year. Charley got his start in life
from Broken Hill; he was a boy on Mt.
Gipps station when Charley Rasp, the
German boundary rider, found the hill of
something—they weren’t sure whether it was
tin or copper; they didn’t guess silver-lead
till later. George McCulloch, the boss, saw
that young Charley got a share, and saw, too,
that he kept it. There can’t be many of that
first svndicate left; certainly very few who
made a pot out of it. McCulloch and Rasp
are both dead. And there are not many lett
of McCulloch's squatter friends who took the
syndicate over: Bowes Kelly must feel a
lonely man sometimes.
It is told of the Marquis of Lincolnshire,
who as Lord Carrington was Governor ot
N. S. Wales from 'B5 to '9O, that when
showing some Canadian visitors over tlie
House of Commons not long ago he remarked,
pointing to a certain seat: “That is where
I used to sit when Palmerston was Prime
Minister.” Palmerston is a figure belonging
to such a remote past that the Canadians
thought their cicerone was joking, but he
wasn't. The Marquis, who was born in
’43, became M.P. for High Wycombe in bo.
Palmerston died, still in harness, three 01
four months later.
Hal Colebatch, Groperland’s ex-Agent-
General, whom Bruce has appointed to
the Royal Commission that is to investi-
gate the Commonwealth Constitution, took
to politics comparatively late —he was 40
when he gained a seat, after one or two
reverses, in the Legislative Council. But
lie rose rapidly when he did arrive;
years of journalism had made him a force, ul
and trenchant writer, and he. was not long
in showing himself an always easy and often
eloquent speaker. In 1019, seven years after
entering Parliament and with the handicap
of a seat in the Upper House, he found
himself Premier. Unfortunately for lam
this was during a period of serious indus-
trial trouble, and after three turbulent
weeks, during which there was a spell of
mob rule at Fremantle, Colebatch was' glad
enough to hand over the reins to his friend
.Timmy Mitchell and retire to a minor posi-
tion iii the Cabinet. Before going to London
as A.-G. in 1922, Colebatch announced las
intention of returning and re-entering politics
at the close of his term. With his varied
exporence lie might make & useful Senator.
A. E. Harte, just retired from the presi-
dency of Brisbane Stock Exchange, was
born at Taunton, in Zummerzett, but came
to Queensland as a youngster. Jackerooing
in N.-W. Queensland was followed by a spell
in a Charters Towers sharebroker’s office,
until he started out for himself on the
Towers Exchange—then in its heyday.
Later he went to Brisbane, and established
himself there, founding a leading Brisbane
sharebroking firm. A keen C.M.F. officer,
Harte joined the big overseas procession in
1914, and served in France, returning with
a major’s crown.
Neville Mayman, whose daughter has
married a baronet’s son. used to be an
engineer; then he became a publican. He
interested himself in N.S.W. Labor, but
made a quick change of party label, and
stood for King. The Labo rites, asserting
that his secretary, W. B. Melville, wrote
his speeches, dubbed him “Melville” Mayman.
A question at one of his meetings flabber-
gasted him. “Why don’t you pay the man
who writes your speeches?” demanded a
voice from the crowd. “I do pay him,”
said Mayman, in his confusion.
Dr. Crayton Mcrrillees. who is acting as
professional head of Vic. Health Dept, while
Dr. E. Robertson is abroad, is one of three
brothers who took to medicine. The eldest,
Jack, has been practising in Hawthorn for
35 years or more. Jim, who is something
of a rover, has had his plate up in several
Australian towns. While he was at Kerang
(Vic.) he urged Tommy Bent, then Premier,
to make provision for maternity wards or to
subsidise hospitals that made provision for
maternity cases, so that the wives of strug-
gling settlers would not pass through the
Valley of the Shadow whenever a new Aus-
tralian was born. Bent and his successors
gave compassionate allowances occasionally
till the Federal bonus system was estab-
lished.
The late Dick Croft was one of the first
men to set up as an industrial advocate
under the N.S.W. Arbitration laws. He had
an established practice in Arbitration before
solicitors like G. S. Beeby (now a Judge),
Cecil Coghlan (now dead) and the Sullivans
thought it worth while, and long before
Mick Connington turned from union secre-
tary to professional advocate. Croft was
born 56 years ago in Melbourne. He did a
lot of patriotic work during the war, and in
the Kuring-gai Shire he was a leading light
in most things.
To mark his 1 completion of 50 years’ ser-
vice, the Melbourne gas co. has handed
A. E. Bradshaw, its sec., a bundle of notes.
It was a stiff climb for him from junior clerk
to the top job, which he got four years ago,
and he richly earned the recognition.
A. E. Moore, leader of the Queensland
Opposition, takes his job seriously. When
T. J. Ryan was Premier, Moore was ques-
tioning a clause in a bill before the House.
Ryan replied in h'is urbane manner. “But
is that your legal opinion?” Moore per-
sisted. “No. that is my honest opinion,”
Ryan answered with a smile.
Vic. Parliament has one more soldier mem-
ber than it knew. Provoked by a taunt from
Digger Arthur Hughes, Mackrell, Cocky
member for Upper Goulburn and assistant
Minister for Railways under John Allan,
told the House that he was in S’Africa when
William Hohenzollern ran amok 13 years
ago, and enlisted. He served under Botha.
Hughes apologised and welcomed Mackrell
to the fold.
Walter Marks, M.H.R., shared with Billy
Hughes the distinction of having an electrical
installation put into the Federal House in
Melbourne for his special oenetit. It con-
sisted of wires strung across the chamber,
the notion being to assist the two legislators
to overcome their deafness by means of wire-
less amplifiers. The scheme was a failure
and they had to return to their little black
acousticons. As chairman of the Film Com-
mission, Marks has to inquire into a form of
the drama that should appeal to him. The
screen seems to have been designed fo»- the
hard of hearing.
Sam Manger ( Vie.). who has suggested the
establishment of a University Chair of Indus-
try, has some claim to attention when he
talks of industrial development or regulation.
He was for years one of the apostles of Pro-
tection in Melbourne and the most doughty
antagonist of sweating. As secretary of the
Anti-Sweating and Wages Boards Promotion
League he worked unweariedly and provided
a meeting-room gratis , and risked boycotting
because of his zeal. Just before Federation
he was member for Footscray in Vic. Assem-
bly; then ho went to the Reps., and was
P.M.G. under Deakin 17 years ago. On the
Indeterminate Sentences and Fire Brigade
Boards he still does some solid work, although
lie is nearer 80 than 70. If a Chair of Indus-
try is set up it will not be an undue com-
pliment it' it is named after Manger.
James Mason, the last survivor of the
wreck of 11.M.5. Orpheus, which struck the
Manukau Bar on the west coast of Maoriland
in 1863, has crossed the other bar at Auck-
land. aged 84. Though 69 were rescued from
the surf, 256 went down with the Orpheus.
T. U. Groube, dead at Glenferrie (Vic.),
was a member of the 1880 Australian XL
and took part in the first Test match played
in the Cold Country, scoring 11 and 0.
Some of the old-time cricketers were hard
doers, but Groube conducted a church choir
for over 30 years. For almost as long he
contributed cricket notes to the Hebalu and
the Weekly Times.
Robert Greig-Sinith, I).Sc., joint-secretary
of the Royal Society, who came to Sydney as
Macleay bacteriologist to the Linnean
SENATOR GRANT, of N. S. Wales.
Society in IS9S and held the job to the end.
passed out as unobtrusively as he had lived
and worked during his 30 years in N.S.''-
His researches in general, economic and
pathological bacteriology won him a high
place in his particular field.
Christ Church, St. Kilda (Vic.), which is
going to celebrate his seventieth birthday this
year, had as organist in its swaddling days
’Hugh Childers, who afterwards entered the
House of Commons and became Chancellor
of the Exchequer.
THE CENOTAPH.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“The granite memorial erected in Martin-place,
Sydney, ‘To Our Glorious Dead' was unveiled on
Monday.”
Here there was tramp of feet in the searing
war-years,
Low-voiced words that would ring to the
grey earth’s ends
In the ears of sons and husbands, brothers
and sweethearts. _ •
Loving and well-loved friends.
Here there will linger, linger o' nights or day-
time,
Through the hush of the city or over its
roar, , , , , ,
Memories of those who marched, clear-ejeu,
breast-forward,
Went to return no more;
Memories of choked farewells, of lusty cheer-
ing, .. .
Of lips that smiled on lips that could only
pray;
Memories of good-bye kiss and wordless hand-
grip , _ 11
Saying more than words could say.
Hence they went—to die in the fulness of
living ~ ,
On a thousand far-flung fields, to die and
to live
With all who ever gave for honor and duty
The most that a man may give.
Here there will linger, more enduring than
granite
That the chisel cuts or the sculptor s art
embowers,
Pride to temper the grief and outlast the
heart-pangs,
Pride that the dead were ours.
N.S.W.
T. THE R.


o_p>
QjJ
Oj)
\
•>_lJ
•u
■s>
ojJ
ej)
2>
y
Save your Energy/
EVERY day you have in your business a certain amount
of calculating work that must be done—extending and
checking invoices, computing interest and discount, checking
trial balances and a hundred other figuring jobs. You know
just how tedious this very necessary work can become and no
doubt you would be interested in an easy and inexpensive
method of handling your figure work.
The Burroughs Calculator, illustrated above, will enable you
to save your mental energy for a more productive purpose
than mere adding, subtracting, multiplying and dividing.
A practical demonstration of the Burroughs Calculator will
cost you nothing and will help you considerably. Just write
or telephone us.
More than 1,150,000
Bu roughs Machines
are in u e throughout
the world to-day —
eloquent evidence of
the value of Burroughs
Machines to the n 01 Id
of business..
Adding
IRA L. & A. C. BERK LTD.
Berk House, 72-76 William St., Sydney. Phones: FL26/1 (3 lines)
Sydney Melbourne Adelaide Bri bane Hobart
Newcastle Rockhampton Auckland Dunedin Chnstcnurch
Burroughs Machines are made in 'various styles and sizes to suit
all kinds of business and at prices ranging from £32 10s. up.
Perth
IVeilington
800 kkeeping
4
Calculating
Machines


05
SYDNEY.
The Finest Restaurant and Dance
Re dezvous in Australasia.
PATRONAGE CONTINUALLY INCREASING.
Capacity: Dining and Supper Dances up to 1000.
For Wedding Receptions, Banquets, Dining and
Supper Dances, inquiries to Manager.
Mon., Tues., Wed., Fri., Special Dining, 7.30,
12/6. Suppers 10 p.m., 7/6. Value and satis-
faction without equal. No charge iur three
hours’ dancing on satin-smooth spring floors—
a new thrill of real delight.
Thurs. and Sat. Late Gala Nights. Continental
Dinner from 7.30, 21/-. Suppers, 10 p.m., 12/6.
This evening in London costs £2/2/- upwards.
PEERLESS ORCHESTRA OF TEN.
Bewitching Cabaret, afternoons and evenings.
Delightful Afternoon Teas. 3.30 to 5.30, 5/-
'’arties of 6 upwards, 4/6; 12 upwards, 4/-
wo hours’ entertainment of sheer delight.
Order Wines before 6 p.m. Ring M. 3666.
nsm
£3l/10/-
£65.
£27/10/-
A Typical Selection
of our
DIAMOND RINGS
Every ring is hand-made in our own
workrooms, the settings being of
platinum and 18ct. gold. The gems
are imported direct from the cutters.
Every intermediate profit is thus cut
out and we are able to sell high-
grade rings at bedrock prices.
FAIRFAX & ROBERTS, LTD.,
The Oldest Jewellery House in Sydney,
23 & 25 HUNTER STREET.
Plain Figures. Cash Only.
£4O.
£25.
£6O.
-for a good
/ night's rest
kJ take
it will ensure
a good days
In A sizes
of all Chemists
and Stores
ABORIGINALITIES
MADE IN AUSTRALIA
“Murrungurry”: “This is a wunnerful
age, all right,” said Brummy, standing in
a group in front of Halfpenny’s pub as an
aeroplane soared overhead. “I remember
the first push-bike on the Warri Warri. I
was goin’ towards Tibooburra from the bor-
der-gate to rouse up the tick inspector, w’en
I came on to old Jack Brunt, the bullick-
driver on Whittabranah. He was ridin'
along slowly, studyin’ the track of a w’eel
in the dust. ‘Well, that beats me holler,’
he' says. ‘There's the track o’ the w’eel-
barrer as plain as your ’and, but w’ere’s
the track o’ the bloke w’at w’eeled it?’ I
reckon if Jack had seen an aireoplane buz-
zin’ through the clouds he’d ’ave died before
he did.”
* * * *
“Biliai”: Hangings in the presence of
natives have had a very different effect in
Papua from that described by “R.J.T.T.”
(B. 21/7/’27) in his North Westralian remi-
niscence. When Ariki murdered Weaver,
his boss, on the Laloki River, near Port
Moresby,. it was decided to impress the
natives by having him publicly hanged. Men,
women and children from all the available
villages had to be present, even some of the
Koiaris, who for a time had sheltered Ariki
in the hills, were roped in and attended
the ceremony. Although it was over 25
years ago it is still spoken of with bated
breath. Natives travelling alone will not
pass through the Ivonedobu swamp at night,
alleging that Ariki’s ghost still haunts the
scene of the scragging. Public hanging was
also tried on the tribes on the Mamba River,
a ferocious crowd in the early days. In
this case also Brown Brother decided that
killing white folk was not sufficiently good
fun to pay for this “new fashion pay back.’’
What most impressed the natives was the
breaking of the neck by the “drop,” though
death by strangulation was already a well-
established custom and is still a favorite
method of suicide.
* * * *
“lon Top”: The Darnley Islanders draw
the leaves of the banana around the back-
ward bunches and bandage them tightly with
withes of cocoanut fibre. The job is well
done and is, apparently, air- as well as light-
proof. This treatment is called “sop-sop,”
and the brown bundles in the banana gar-
dens look like huge hornets’ nests. The cus-
tom was peculiar to Murray Island till
it spread over the eastern group. Swaying
in the wind around the sop-sop bunch is a
queer double circular design, like the handle
of a shears, and made of cocoanut-leaf. This
token propitiates the particular deity that
grants good seasons. The bandaging is ap-
plied to those bunches only which are back-
ward in growth. The fruit lasts in the sop-
sop for as long as five months, and grows
exceedingly fat and juicy with a very pleas-
ing flavor; also it acquires a distinctively
reddish tint. White growers may take a
hint if the time required to treat the bunches
in this fashion should be a minor considera-
tion.
DIDN’T WANT NO LITTLE CORPUSES ON HER HANDS.
“Where’re you off to?”
"Down the creek for a swim.”
“Well, mind, if you get drownded, don’t you go cornin’ ’ome to me.”
“Wandi”: The mistletoe plant, which is
infesting and killing large numbers of mulga-
trees in the north-western corner of N.S.W..
has an edible fruit that is specially adapted
by nature to a parasitic life. The seed
has a viscous coating that sticks to the
TEMPERING THE WIND TO THE LAMB.
GLOOMY PROPHET: “And next year for our sins we shall be visited by plague and
pestilence and fire.”
MOSENSTEIN : “Ah, fire too? Dere’s a silver lining mit every cloud, is it not?”
legs and feathers of birds —which eat only
the juicy exterior part of the fruit —and is
deposited on limtjs where they rest or roost.
After feeding on the berries they fly to
a tree to cleanse themselves, often having to
wipe the seeds from their beaks. In dry
times, when the Mitchell grass has dis-
appeared and saltbush has been reduced to
dry stubble, stock depend largely for sub-
sistence on mulga. Where there is much
infestation the mistletoe is, therefore, a seri-
ous pest, as every year there is an increased
quantity of seed for propagation. Most of
the seeds are dropped on the ground and
perish, but wherever one touches a limb it
clings and grows. The only way of getting
rid of it, without destroying the tree, is to
chip the plant off with a tomahawk. The
berry is a good palliative in cases of thirst,
but cannot easily be ejected from the mouth.
It can be moved about in the same way as
a pebble, but can’t be spat out until the
seed has been sucked quite bare. I have
seen drovers, while riding along with cattle,
have competitions with these berries, the
first to spit out the stone being the winner.
It gave great fun to Binghi, especially at
a camp-fire where youngsters were the com-
petitors.
* * *
“J.G.”: Bush workers when splitting
tough timber are often at a loss for some-
thing with which to make a maul that won’t
crumple up or fly to pieces after the wedges
are hit a few times. Often the maul wdl
not last half as long as it took to make it
The right piece of grey or yellow box, red-
gum or iron bark will last a good while, but
the job is to get that right piece. The best
mauls I ever had were made from mallee
saplings dead about 18 months. Good ones
were also made out of grey box saplings,
ring-barked, where the ring of bark taken
off had been about a foot wide. If the
sapling—a dry one, of course—-is cut down
and this part minus the bark sawn off, it
will, in most cases, make a good, tough maul.
So will a piece of pepper-tree cut from a
tree that has been dead about a year. An
Italian woodcutter I knew had no time for
wooden mauls; Jie used instead a 51b. or
61b. iron hammer that had been made softer
than the wedges. Instead of knocking lumps
off the wedges, the hammer would itself be
knocked into all sorts of shapes. The Italian,
however, got a lot of work out of it, and
wasn’t troubled with the rings flying off,
as were men with wooden mauls.
“G.8.L.” : Spencer and Gillen studied the
habits of the Central Australian ants,., and
their description differs in several respects
from that of “Coola" (B. 14/7/'2T). The
ants do not build their curious sand-tubes
about the stems of the grass only, but often
continue them to the tips, sometimes the
whole tussock being covered. These tunnels
seem to be constructed for the purpose of
protecting the ants from the fierce heat of
the sun. The grains of sand are, according
to the late J. H. Maiden, glued together,
not by the stuff exuded from the scale in-
sects which inhabit the tunnels with the
ants, but by a resinous substance obtained
from the leaf sheaths of the grass. The
substance derived from the scale insects is
utilised by the ants as food. It is apparently
a co-operative arrangement by which the
scale insect receives protection in the tunnel
in return for its supply of food. The honey-
ants referred to possibly also feed on the
exudation of the scale, but it is probable
that the honey-like substance they store in
their abdominal bags is obtained from the
mulga-apple—a ■ gall formed on a tree.
* * *
“Dimon”: When I was first told by a
Paroo squatter that I “could look for thun-
derstorms to-day,” I thought there was a
bust-up coming, and wondered what I’d been
doing. But it was a common job there-
abouts. When weather conditions had been
favorable in summer months, stockmen were
sent out to follow the track of any thunder-
storm they saw. Where a hole or claypan
had received a few days’ supply of water
sheep were shifted on to It, to be removed
to another track, perhaps miles away, a
week later. There was good feed in that
dry zone, being too far away from the regu-
lar watering-places for sheep to pasture at
other times. Often the storm tracks were
only half a mile wide, and it was tantalising
to see them cross parched runs, missing
every big hole and tank, and filling the
elaypans in other parts. Some of these pans
next day looked like miniature lakes, but in
a very short time the water disappeared.
“Akran”: After reading the pars, about
the cork-decked hats of sundowners I was
glad to meet the owner of one on the Gundu-
rimba-Lismore road (N.S.W.). He was grey-
bearded and carried an enormous matilda,
from which was suspended a black billy. A
frying-pan was shoved under the straps of his
load, and lie had a weary-looking pup with
a much-too-heavy collar. The old chap was
smoking a stunted clay pipe, and as he hob-
bled along the corks on his hat danced to
every step.
(Continued on page 27.)
THE CAMPS OF YESTERYEAR.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
I s'pose it’s rather foolish, in the place they
still call bush,
To wish the wheels of progress you could
stay;
But I’d like to give this rolling world a
little backward push,
And live among the camps of Yesterday.
Now you never see a ringer in a strike-your-
fancy shirt,
A flaming cummerbund and cabbage hat,
Or a pair of wide-legged moleskins, snowy
white and free of dirt—
A dude, but still a craftsman, spite of that.
Oh, I miss the happy sing-songs when the
fire was burning bright,
And the banter, and the games upon the flat,
And the coffee and the brownie round the
spitting carbide light,
When a bushman’s home was where he
hung his hat.
I'd like to see the mustered mob draw
steadily along,
And watch the wing men work them to
the yard.
But there seems a fashion nowadays for
too much spur and thong,
And every rider’s prone to push them hard.
The camp-horse never did a tap beyond his
special work,
And they led him back and washed him
when ’twas done.
The horses used to wheel them once, and
riders didn’t shirk,
For yarding scrubbers then was classed
as fun.
It is years since I have seen a stockman with
a greenhide whip
Who on a cabbage-gum could chop his
name;
Or a youngster squarely loin-roped with a
knot that wouldn’t slip,
Or branding done without a patent frame.
Though the four-in-hand has vanished, I
would love again to hear
The creaking of the harness and the bars;
But the ruthless hand of progress made the
mail-coach disappear,
And the horse has knuckled under to the
cars.
QUEENSLAND.
E. E. BAKER.


Into the centre of Australia
to ascertain if
the heart of the
Continent is des-
tined to remain
a desert or become
?
*
/j
V.
Vj
■
1
1
m
■ *V'
mm
mm
i .v*
L*' ' :
mam B|i |
. . s ’.V i
*;J
11
■
: m
■
■
iSSS
H
X?
» * '
■
■
IHB
H 1
t&4£s£ss&-*. /. i
■
■ ,-*
1H
r.
jg pgagSte^
IHHH
■
rg^Sw*
Ipf ' , me m&.
■r rf f
IPIIII
||P
■
I3M
ns
■
;*
a
.
ill!
i .
One of the most interesting, instructive
and educational transportion feats ever
attempted in Australia is the Reso
Motor Tour organised by the Victorian
Railway authorities. A party of 60
influential business and professional
men is being conducted per medium of
18 DODGE cars and 1 Graham truck
the largest fleet of cars that has yet
travelled into the heart of Australia.
All States
are fitted to the whole fleet
and their quality and dependability will materially help in the
success of this unique undertaking.
Fit “Dunlop” and you will be satisfied!
* * *
DUNLOP RUBBER CO. OF AUST. LTD.
onrl XI 7


"CTTT
by General
Is accompanied by this warranty.
Should any defect in material
or workmanship develop with-
in one year from the date men-
tioned below, a part to replace
that which is defective will be
delivered at our dealer’s estab-
lishment without cost to you.
This warranty does not c
much as they are guara
respective makers.
b further ensure the i
your purchas
c Warranty
<Marmnty issued to
Covering. Model
Cngine Mb. Chassis Mb.
materials, scientific research and design and pains-
(talcing workmanship go into every General Motors
product to ensure the maximum satisfaction in the
user's hands. Conscious of this inherent quality in
its products, and confident of the service that they render, and as
tangible evidence thereof, each vehicle manufactured by General
Motors is accompanied by this warranty.
Should any defect in material or workmanship develop within on
yrar from the date mentioned below, a part to replace that which is
defethu will be delivered at our dealer's establishment without coll to you.
This warranty does not cover tires inasmuch as they ate
guaranteed by their respective makers. -
To further ensure the utmost satisfaction from your purchase,
we earnestly recommend that wherever possible you utilize the
services of our authorized dealers for repairs and adjustments. A
list of these authorized dealers will be sent on application to the
Company
GENERAL MOTORS ( Austral*) F
GENERAL MOTORS’
Warranty Covers Generail Motors Cars
One Year’s
Warranty.
it
One Years
Warranty,
One Year's
Warranty.
m
One Year's
Warranty.
One Year's
Warranty.
Tiro Years'
Warranty.
GENERAL MOTORS’ respon-
sibility for the value and ser-
vice of every part of every General
Motors car (except tyres) is com-
plete. It covers not only the
main units of motor frame, axle
and transmission, but also ever}'
accessory and every nut, bolt and
screw.
General Motors, by using the best
materials, the most careful
methods of manufacture and most
skilled craftsmen, has assured you
of such service. It is not the
warranty that gives you the ser-
vice. It is the warranty that
expresses the confidence of
General Motors that such service
is in-built in the car. The warranty
is to show you that General Motors
expects you to get all the value
you are entitled to.
Continuance of the present large
volume of sales of General Motors
cars and the future growth of sales
are so dependent on the perform-
ance of General Motors cars in
owners’ hands that nothing less
than complete efficiency of all
parts of General Motors cars will
suffice.
The watchfulness and willingness
of General Motors to stand back
of the quality and service it builds
into motor-cars reaches its highest
effectiveness because more than
any others General Motors cars
are built by and within the fac-
tories of General Motors.
The one year warranty (two years
for Cadillac and La Salle) is a
continual reminder to the owner
and to General Motors that
General Motors cars are built to
a standard that should and must
result in better service and higher
value at their cost.
'I
One Year’s
Warranty.
**
One Years
Warranty.
wv
Two Years’
Warranty.
GENERAL MOTORS Oust.) PTY., LTD.
Melbourne - - Sydney - - Brisbane - - Adelaide - - Perth.


HULL
Britain’s Third and
Cheapest Port.
The Natural Gateway
to a large Industrial Area of
12 MILLION PEOPLE.
11 DOCKS
Owned and Served by the
London 8 North-Eastern Railway
MODERN EQUIPMENT,
RAPID HANDLING,
LOW CHARGES.
EXPRESS GOODS TRAINS
to all parts of the country.
Regular Fast Steamship Services to the
Continent of Europe for Re-Export Trade.
AUSTRALIAN SHIPPERS are invited to
inquire for further information at the offices
of Messrs. BURNS, PHILP & CO., LTD.,
7 Bi’idge Street, Sydney; and Branches.
L.N.E.R.
Largest Dock-owning Railway
in the World.
SMOKINC
TOBACCO
Australian Agents: R. TOWNS & CO., SYDNEY.
4
Prices at Winchcombe-Carson’s sales
are an encouragement for skin-getters to make war
on the rabbit.
The firm's work is reliable and capable. As a
result buyers operate with confidence at Wincli-
eombe-Carson auctions, and owners consistently secure
full market values.
CONSIGN SKINS:
WINCHCOMBE, CARSON
SYDNEY OR BRISBANE.
LTD.
“lip North”: On Utu, a small, uninhabited
island in Torres Strait, there grows a huge
wongai-tree visible some distance out to sea.
To the surrounding islanders this old giant
is known as the “tree of snakes.” A “snake-
man” recently thrust his arm within the
hollow trunk and pulled out 36 wrigglers,
killing each within sight of the awed on-
lookers by a lackadaisical pinch of the neck
between thumb and forefinger. In the day-
time the snakes festoon from the branches,
and have been known to bite the cheeks
of unwary native women walking under-
neath in search of pigeons’ eggs. Enclos-
ing the butt of the tree is a mound four
feet high of these birds’ bones—there must
be thousands of them, relics of the meals
of countless snakes throughout many years.
In the season the island is a favorite breed-
ing-ground for the Torres Strait pigeons, and
the tree branches are snow-laden with their
numbers. Upon the birds and countless eggs
the snakes thrive. Grey in color, they are
plentiful in the grass, and coil round the
legs of visiting natives who seek their share
of the egg harvest.
:j: * *
“Whaler”: “Yarragundry” (B. 9/6/’27)
blames the motor-car for the scarcity of
fish in the Murray. My idea is that the
pumping plants are largely responsible. Let
a shoal or fish get anywhere near the inlets
to the great pumps which now line the
river, and it is doomed. Nor is the danger
confined to small fry. I have known No. .1
pump in Renmark to be choked with a fish
that would have turned the scale at 101 b.
The pump had to be stopped, and then they
were obliged to cut the obstruction into pieces
in order to remove it from the inlet
pipe. It is not unusual to see a dozen or
more fish from 4 to 6 lb. swimming in the
outlet basin at the head of the channel. I
think it high time the authorities woke up
to the necessity for safeguarding fish at all
pumping stations.
* * * *
‘Tfella” : “Barmac” (B. 7/7/'27) can gain
a more realistic sight of a mythical city's
nightliglits than by watching the eyes of a
mob of sheep in the bush. Riding at dark
in the hilly country of Victoria’s north-
cast, I have often reined-in at the top of
a rise to gaze spellbound at the beautiful
effect of a certain phosphorescent fungus,
growing among the rotting logs in the valley.
Its scattered growths blaze and twinkle, vary
in color and size, and show in perfect lines like
street lights. I have found half-plates of the
fungus nearly three inches thick and over
eighteen inches in length.
“F.S.H.” : “Werrimee” (B. 14/7/’27) is
wrong in saving that you can’t get the full
f orce into b i ow tl axe-handle is short
axe handle is short.
-^ oa McNa ly, of Eastern Donigo (N.S.W.),
could slice through an 18m.- turpentine log
in 47 seconds, and he used a short handle,
whether chopping in contests or falling the
great pines and hardwoods of the plateau,
AND MANY MORE LIKE IT!
“When yer go in, constable, would yer mind wishing me 'usband many ’appy returns'
of the day? ’E’s in number 13.”
“Momokeni” : Many savage races practise
head hunting and some also hand hunt-
ing. Tucked away in the part of the Main
Range of Papua drained by the upper waters
of the Purari and Kiko rivers, the tribes
inhabiting the Samberigi and adjacent val-
leys follow this custom. For some reason
not known only left-hands are souvenired.
When a hand has been obtained it is mum-
mified and then worn round the neck by a
string passing through a hole bored in the
centre of the palm. These people were first
visited in 1911 by ex-Senator Staniforth
Smith.
* * * $
“Moe”: Just outside Rabaul, on the road
to Malaguna, there is an avenue of rain-
trees. During the night, and to a lesser
degree during the day, the leaves of the
trees extract moisture from the atmosphere
and when loaded deposit it on the ground.
This has been going on for about 30 years,
since the avenue was first planted. The
consequence is seen in a tangled and luxu-
riant mass of vegetation in their vicinity
far exceeding anything in the mountains of
the island or on the mainland of New
Guinea. Almost every species of local plant
is to be found there, and the trees themselves
are heavily laden with parasitic vegetation.
From the botanical viewpoint the curious
thing about the place is that practically
all the species seem to flourish in complete
harmony with each other.
* * * *
“D.M.E.”: A delectable fish that abounds
in Maoriland waters is the butterfish or
“kelpie.” From November to February he
forsakes the blue and takes up his abode in
the deep pools along the 'rockbound coast.
At this season the kelp, well outside the
reef, is infested by small shellfish; after a
blow much of this sea vegetation is washed-
up on the beaches. A bunch of it well pep-
pered with the shellfish and tied to a line
of about six fathoms, also a spear of a goodly
length, equip you for the sport. Throw
in the kelp, having your spear already in
the water, and keep your eyes peeled. A
dark-blue flash denotes the presence of a
butterfish. As the kelp is on the top of
the water he comes up perpendicularly, a
good position for the strike. But it needs
an expert to be sure of a bag, for nothing
is so deceptive as an object in the water.
* * * *
“Larrapinta”: Leaving places like the
summit of Mt. Kosciusko out of the argu-
ment. where is the worst spot in Australia
for doing a perish in when camping out
at night? I nominate the mouth of Glen
Annie, in the Maedonnell Ranges (Cen-
tralia), in midwinter. I camped there with
a prospecting party in 18S7, and the frosts
were intense. I heated water in a prospect-
ing dish for a wash before sunrise, and 10
minutes later that dish had a quarter of
an inch of ice on it. Billies of tea and canvas
bags of water were frozen solid by morning;
in fact, I’ve seen ice floating on the pools
in the bed of the Hale River at midday.
The thermometer has recorded an air tem-
perature of 22 deg. F. and on the grass 0
deg. F. (26 deg. of frost) just before sun-
rise. I’ve had some pretty cold camps in
my time, but that was easily the worst.
* ❖ ❖ *
“Gouger”: Moira is a Darnley Island
woman who. during the Cape Melville cyclone,
earned and richly deserved a life-saving
medal. As Moira describes it: “The ship he
go down an’ th’ wind tear our dress off. But
little dress underneath he cling close alia
time ’cause the big waves wash him verra
tight. My sister she no swim. She heavy
woman; me on’y girl. She holdem hands on
my shoulders, an’ I swim an’ swim an’ swim.
Seo an’ Geba swim one side an’ ’nother, an’
try be strong an’ brave. An’ time pass verra
hard, an’ we fight an’ fight an’ fight. Then
salt hurt my sister eyes an’ she cry, ‘Oh,
Moira, me no can see! Eyes belong me go
blind!’ An’ I make my knuckles hard an’
rubbem right along eyes; an’ she blink at
sky an’ laugh ’cause she see again. Then
Seo very tired an’ she rest one hand on me,
a little time. An’ I try float, an’ swim an’
swim an’ swim. Then Geba cry, like baby
cry, ’cause her hair verra long an’ wind
blow it wet ’cross her nose an’ dow r n her
throat, an’ she too tired an’ weak. I fight
more an’ stand up in water an’ catch Geba
hair in big bunch an’ pull it tight till eyes
b’long her stand out; an’ I tie it in big knob,
an’ she all right an’ smile just a little. An’
all night we fight an’ fight an’ swim an’
swim an’ swim. An’ sun he rise an’ we
verra glad, but we see no ship; on’y water.
An’ sun he go down, an’ wind blow us near
the shore, an’ sound he tell me waves he
break upon rocks an’ rocks he all sharp with
oyster-shell. An’ I wait till one big wave
roll an’ break on rocks, an’ then I push my
sister quick an’ scream, ‘Swim ! Swim !’ An’
she climb up in slack water jus’ before nex’
wave break. Then I push Geba, an’ she
climb up. Then I push Seo, an’ she climb
up. Then I wait, an’ nex’ slack water
climb up myself, but never think I do it, I
so near go down. An’ all night we lie on
rocks ’cause we so weak we no can move.
An’ nex’ day we crawl over rocks an’ find
a beach an’ pumpkin; an’ we beat pumpkin
on rocks an’ eat an’ laugh. An’ we find plour,
plenty plour—all come longa wreck light-
house ship. Then we find dead mans. All
along beach, plenty dead mans—plenty.
Plenty Island boy, plenty mainland, plenty
harp-caste, plenty New Guinea boy, plenty
Jap man. An’ white man he lie there, too,
alia same, alia same dead. An’ altogether
they lie longa plenty shark an’ plenty king-
pish, an’ barr’couta; plenty dead pish alto-
gether lie ’longside dead mans. My word, he
verra terrible storm that one!”
THE GREEN LADY.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Three ladies came to my land, to our land,
a-visiting,
And two wrought pain and havoc, but
they’re gone on their way.
The other one is graceful and smiling and
beautiful,
Her mission peace and plenty—long may
she with us stay !
The first one was a red hag, a drought hag,
a sorceress,
A daughter of the West Wind, her cloak
was red as blood;
Then came a guileful grey witch, a sly witch,
philandering,
Dull-grey and drenched her garments, she
rode astride the flood.
Then Heaven sent a lady, a lady kind and
bountiful,
Her green gown long and trailing, her
smiling face was fair;
She was adorned with wattle and wilga and
waratah,
And Sturt peas red as rubies were studded
in her hair.
She rode beside the mountains, the rivers,
the billabongs,
Where’er her steed has trodden, there is
a tinge of green.
And scrub and shrub are budding and bloom-
ing and blossoming,
A sward of grass is waving where not a
blade had been.
Each day she wanders this way and that
way, a-journeying,
The bush-birds meet her carolling, whose
tongues have long been still;
And flocks and herds come baa-ing and bleat-
ing and bellowing,
For she has brought a harvest and they
can eat their fill.
Lean stockmen ride contented and singing
and worshipping,
Though weather-worn and weary and
stained with dust of miles,
And gaunt bush women, rested from thinking,
from worrying,
Are greeting the Green Lady and basking
in her smiles.
And there are talks of picnics and races and
holidays,
Of journeys to the cities and camps beside
the sea;
And prophecies of courtships and weddings
and honeymoons,
So quick romance may follow on the steps
of tragedy.
THE WOOER.
SNOOPS, M.P. (with an election coming ): “What a dear little dog! May I kiss it?”
"While hill and plain grow greener, aye, greener
than emerald
W here long bush-tracks are leading to
homes set far apart,
And people dream of shearing and reaping
and marketing
Wliere Drought and Flood have ravished
and left them sore at heart.
n.s.w.
JIM GRAHAME.


Freedom for
the Ruptured
Don’t let Rup-
ture handicap
you. Enjoy
every comfort
and freedom a t
work and sport
and have de-
pendable sup-
port as well, by
0
MBAMIO
•wearing Denyer’s Elastic Truss. Its patent
water pad affords the ideal Rupture treatment.
Single, 30/-; Double, 40/-
Write to Dept. 1 for illustrated Rupture
Pamphlet.
The only Proprietors of the
genuine Denyer’s Truss are
DENYER BROS.,
Makers of Trusses. Abdominal Belts and
Artificial Limbs.
Dept. 1,2 SI GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY
QN
BANK
THE QUEENSLAND NATIONAL BANK, LIMITED.
Incorporated under the Companies Act 1863. Established 1872.
Directors —A. C. Luya, Esq., Chairman; James Love, Esq.; W. 11. Hart, Esq.;
M. J. Rvan, Esq.; D. W. Macdonald, Esq.
Cexeu'ai, Manager —M. G. HAYMEN.
HEAD OFFICE BRISBANE
With offices at London, Canberra (Federal Territory), Melbourne, Sydney, and
95 branches in Queensland and Northern Rivers, N. S. Wales, also representation
through the leading Banking Institutions covering Australasia and the World, this
Bank offers the fullest facilities for the transaction of all general banking business.
TUDOR
ACCUMULATORS
for Reliability and Long Life.
Australasian Office—
TUDOR ACCUMULATOR CO., LTD.,
Culwulla Chambers, Castlereagh Street, SYDNEY.
EVER-READY
TORCHES S
The Worlds Best S
nm\
l—fc fm tin TwUifH AgMM E«wr*h#t
Write fee llhutreted Cetelofm*.
The Ever-Ready Co. (Gt. Britain) Ltd.
163 Pitt Street, Sydney
THE MAN
ON THE LAND'S
PAGE
DROUGHT FODDER FOR SHEEP.
“R.E.” : “C.J.H.’s” idea is that we should
grow enough oats in good seasons to make
silage to feed our sheep for at least a year
of drought; but we are well into our third
consecutive year of drought and it might
last three more. What about that?
Oats don’t thrive in this climate (Central
W.Q.), even if watered. In my garden oats
are going prematurely to seed at about eight
iuches high, and too thin for a crop. Even
if we got a crop once in two years of .‘lOO
acres, it would all have grown from the same
rain and would mature at the same time, and
it would not remain for more than a few
days in the soft, green stage that is suitable
for making silage. Crops dry off very quickly
in this climate. It would take 100 men
(counting cooks, offsiders, a butcher, wood
and water joeys, plough and scoop hands for
the pits and the harvesters themselves), at 44
hours a week, to get that crop in before it
got too dry. In my case the coach fares alone
would cost me £575. To comply with the
Workers’ Accommodation Act would cost
about £5OOO in buildings, etc. Add interest
on £5OOO for two years (£700) and depre-
ciation (£750) and you get £2025 before
work is commenced, and 3000 sheep—the
mob “C..T.H.” had in view—can’t earn more
than £2OOO a year in a good season. Seed
would be a big item, as I would probably
have to replant several times before I got a
crop. Say that I exaggerate, and cut my
figures in four, and still it isn’t practical
business.
Apart from the cost, if N.S.W, and Queens-
land took “C.J.H.’s" advice and grew oats
successfully it would take a million men
to harvest it.
One station up here has a farm near the
coast and employs, I think, two or three
men, costing little more than their wages
and rations, steadily conserving fodder to
send to the station in drought time. That
is a more economical idea than the one
under discussion, but it is not a solution
of the drought problem.
OPERATIONS ON ANIMALS.
“Larrapinta”.: Let me add a word to
“G.S.M.V cbmmonsense remarks (B.
21/7/'27‘) about sterilising the instruments
used in lamb-marking. The knives used
should always he clean and bright, as well
as keen, arid should not only be sterilised be-
fore starting, but kept sterile all through.
To do this, put a sterilising solution (a table-
spoonful of lysol, solyptol or other anti-
septic to a quart of water) into a clean
enamelled billycan, and tie two strips of
wood across the top with a small space be-
tween, so that the blades of the knives can
hang in the solution without dropping right
in, handle and all. Hang this billy on a rail
or post close to the operator’s right hand.
Each knife is used once only, and then
dropped into the slit and a fresh one picked
up, given a flip to shake off adhering drops
of liquid, and used for the next cut.
The cost of providing a scalpel, forceps,
curved needle, reel of sewing silk, and —for
humane reasons—a hypodermic syringe and
bottle of local anaesthetic should not exceed
305., and is a first-class investment. Before
performing any veterinary operation, such as
opening up an abscess, put your instruments
into a clean dish of water to which has been
added a small quantity of an antiseptic, and
boil for 30 minutes. Then wash your hands
with hot water and plenty of common yellow
soap; and give an injection of local anaesthe-
tic on the side of the wound farthest from the
heart, pushing in the needle with a quick
thrust along under the skin in a sloping direc-
tion. Press in the plunger as soon as the
needle enters the skin : then wait a couple
of minutes, or until the animal ceases to
flinch when the wound is touched ; then shave
the hair from around it with a razor. Pick
up the knife from the dish, cut out the stake
or open up the abscess.
An abscess should be syringed out with
boracie solution and left open to drain, but
a wound should be cleaned out thoroughly,
painted with iodine, and sewn up. To do
this thread the curved needle with silk, pass
through each edge of the wound, draw to-
gether and tie, cut off close to the knot and
repeat every half-inch until the wound is
completely closed up. It will then heal
with little or no scar, and is very un-
likely to turn septic. When a local anaesthetic
is used, not only does the animal feel little
if any pain, but you have the advantage of
working on something that stands still.
instead of prancing about on tlie end of a
halter or straining and heaving with pam
and terror in a crush-pen.
THE USES OF TAR-BRANDING.
“B. Temple”: None of the advocates of
tar-branding have stressed a most essential
point—the necessity for doing the job
thoroughly.
My own practice is to brand ordinary
flock sheep on the near loin, and culls on
the off shoulder just below the wither. In
the case of mobs that cannot be separated
before shearing—ewes with unweanable
lambs, for example—l raddle the culls, nose
or ear, just before they go into the shed, ami
brand accordingly when they come out. It
is then a simple matter when weaning to
run the culls off at the same time.
The same thing applies to mobs which at
the moment of culling it may not be con-
venient to separate owing to paddock
arrangements. If an odd cull does, find its
way into a loin-branded mob it is easily
picked out. Run the mob round, the yard
clockwise and the shoulder brand simply hits
you in the eye. Recently I was compelled
to box temporarily some cull ewes of mixed
ages with a mob of odds-and-ends of all
ages and both sexes. The job of drafting off
the culls could have been done by a first-year
jackeroo by the tar-brand, but it would have
taken a pretty good man to make a clean
draft if he had ignored the brand and stuck
to the ear.
SEEDING THEORIES.
“Prop”: No one system can be applied to
the cultivation of all lands being prepared
for seeding; different soils want different
treatment. About 1911 Peacock, then head
of Bathurst (N.S.W.) Experimental Farm,
evolved arid preached the "clod theory,” by
which the ground was seeded when in the
rough and the use of harrows to bring the
top soil to a fine tilth was not allowed.
The Dept, of Agriculture was so impressed
by the Bathurst results that the same sys-
tem was tried at the other experimental
farms, with disappointing results.
The experiments, however, showed that on
granite and loamy soils Peacock's theory was
correct. Both these soils, if worked fine, have
a tendency to cement together and thereby
smother the seed, also forming ideal condi-
tions for capillary tubes to evaporate the
moisture from the soil. But where the pad-
dock lias been sown under the rough or clod
system, during the whole of the growing
period the clods continue to disintegrate and
trickle fresh loose soil over the. ground sur-
face, thus mulching and softening the sur-
face and blocking the action of the capillary
tubes.
With most black soils it has been found
that the finer the seed bed is worked up the
better the results.
EASIER PLOUGHING.
“Kai te Kuri”: A novel method of reduc-
ing the resistance of the soil to the plough-
share has proved experimentally successful
in England, and may be worth trying where
ploughing is done with tractors. Soil col-
loids are electro-negative; when a negatively
charged plate is placed in the ground, water
passes from the soil and is deposited on the
plate. A wet ploughshare cuts better than
a dry; so a negatively charged ploughshare,
being kept wet, is easier to plough with. The
experimenter found that less power was
needed to draw his plough when he had the
current switched on. A dynamo driven by
the tractor provided the current.
KIKUYU GRASS.
“Bitsow”: Let me praise the virtues of
kikuyu grass. It is considered here (Ather-
ton. N.Q.) the queen of grasses, and cattle
and horses will leave Rhodes, paspalum.
pannicum and all native grasses any time if
there is a patch of kikuyu handy. As for
carrying capacity, I know one farmer with
four acres of it, and 16 head of stock, after
three years on those four acres, are still
knee-deep in tucker.
Kikuyu is a creeper sending out roots and
herbage at every joint, and if not fed or
mown off will attain a height of 2 to 3 feet
on even ordinary soil.
One word of’ warning. Don’t plant the
grass where you may want to cultivate later.
The smallest cutting grows, and it’s a hope-
less task to try to eradicate it.
VARYING QUALITY IN FLEECES.
“R. E. Combing” : I was pleased to see
“675” take up my remarks about varying
quality in a fleece. As he said, the fault has
grown worse with the cutting up of big
stations, and it is particularly noticeable
where Romney Marsh blood is present. But
I was thinking mainly of merino wool. I
have seen the fault in some of our big
standard clips, and clips from stud flocks at
that.
I don’t think our big-gun sheep-classers
pay enough attention to it. As a wool man
I don’t pretend to be a judge of sheep, but
I think some of our sheep-classers must be
rather duds at wool. I know there arc a
good many other points than the fleece to
consider in judging sheep, but, after all,
growing wool is the main thing sheep have
to do, so it ought to receive the.'first con-
sideration. In dealing with varying quality
in one fleece, I should not think a wool-
elasser would get very good results by trust-
ing a wool-roller to pick it out for him on
the table. The wool-roller sees only the top
of the wool; but. when it is rolled up with
the fresh side uppermost and put into a saus-
age shape instead of a ball, the classer can
see most of what there is to be seen in regard
to quality.
I have seen the fault that “675” com-
plained of —a differing quality in the indivi-
dual wool fibre ; but that is a seasonal matter
and only the season can rectify it. Perhaps
some breeds are more liable to it than others.
CROP RECORDS.
“Ikey Ironbark”; I don't know if “Wood-
side’s” potato crop (B. 7/7/’27) is a record
or not; to me it reads like a miracle. The
best ever grown in this district (South Bur-
nett, Q.) was seven tons, and 30in. rain
fell while it was growing—another miracle.
Ours -is deep scrub soil of volcanic origin,
and is capable of growing SO bushels maize
per acre, and nearly every other farm crop
to perfection. Why not more spudsV
BUSH GATES.
“Two Seas”: “J.G.’s” gate hinges (B.
21/7/'27) are all right; I’ve made 'em that
way. But I would advise a larger hole than
2in. for a medium-weight gate. The top
"hinge” should be a cross-grained piece of
hardwood; straight-grained softwood soon
splits. Mark a 3in. circle on it and nibble
it out with a gin. or fin. bit.
For a light gate, instead of using a. block
of wood for the bottom hinge, get a beer-
bottle with a hollow bottom. Fill it with
earth or sand and set it firmly in the ground,
bottom up. The backpiece of tins gate will
work easily in the cavity, and the bottle can’t
rot.
. OLD EWES.
“Anthony Cluster” : Don’t lose money on
old ewes. You may have 15 or 20 or more
that have, pulled through the winter some-
how. Examine their mouths in late spring,
and if teeth are very defective pull them
out; then run for a while on a grassy culti-
vation paddock. Dummies thrive wonderfully
when the feed is long, and they will fatten
in no time for home; use or the local butcher.
If left in the paddock with the others, with
their defective teeth they would only go on
living till they die next winter.
SHEEP AND HILLS.
“Leo Lear”: As “C.J.” says (B. 7/7/’27),
sheep require shade for day-time camping,
but for a place to sleep their first need seems
to be altitude and clearness of outlook. This
is evidently a survival from their ancient
forebears to guard against sudden attack
from enemies. Given a sheltered corner and
an exposed hill, I know where you’ll find
the jumbucks at night. This habit must influ-
ence the growth of wool, which is best
in places where it is necessary for the ani-
mals’ protection against the weather.
CHOOSING THE SOW.
“Bar K.”: Sows intended for breeding
purposes should not be kept in show con-
dition during their growing period, and
•should not be sty-reared. They should have
to root around for themselves to some extent,
to induce hardihood, and should always have
green feed available.
Select roomy sows of contented disposition,
with a free swinging gait, and not less than
10 sound teats. Avoid short-stepping, tight
sorts.
It is inadvisable to put a sow to the
boar before she is nine months old, if the
best results over a long period are to be
obtained. Don’t waste time rearing the
runts of a litter. Always get rid of pigs that
show signs of weak lungs or unhealthy eyes.
A backward or sickly pig is almost always
a passenger, and seldom repays the time
and cost of rearing.
TWIN CALVES.
“Max”: “Jacques” (B. 1.4/7/’27) may rest
assured that his twin heifer calves can be as
good as any other heifers on reaching
maturity provided they get a fair deal in
food and care—most calves don’t, i lia\v
raised at least two sets of heifer twins, all
of which duly calved and became good milkers.
"Jacques” seems to have heard of the old
belief in the sterility of a “free-martin,”
the name given a heifer twin-born with a
bull. There is nothing in this, as a well-
bred free-martin in the U.S.A. recently com-
pleted a milk test that proved her to be a
heavy producer, like her mother before her.
BACKWARD CHICKS.
“Practical”: Every poultry breeder has
his share of slow-growing backward chicks
in almost every hatch, and to most the
cause is obscure. To sort out these is the
second step in culling, the first having taken
place at the incubator drawer at hatching
time, when all deformed and crooked feet
and beaks wen* disposed of. The need for
ample pen accommodation to allow of classi-
fication is thus apparent. There are many
cases which the expert breeder never hesi-
tates over, but others make the mistake of
coddling weaklings as if everything depended
on saving their lives. Then, if they reach
maturity, they reproduce a generation of
stock which very often shows greater faults
than the parents did. A few cases may
crop up through such causes as a poorly-
fertilised egg, uneven distribution of heat
in the incubator drawer or through too many
being set under a lien —wffiich means that
some get cold. An over-mated male may
cause weak germination, or an over-fat hen
likewise. But no matter what the cause,
such stock shouldn’t be given a chance to
hand on its faults. Neither males nor
females should be used for breeding purposes.
Cull them out early. If cockerels, get them
to the butcher or poulterer as soon as they
are big enough to kill. If pullets, a further
culling may be made when they get close
to laying age, as it may be that the best
of them may be quite profitable as layers.
LAYERS AND SHOW STANDARDS.
“J.A.S.” : It is a strange thing, but a fact
nevertheless, that generally the birds which
take the prizes in the standard classes at
poultry shows can’t lay. The reason is that
the English standards on which our poultry
are judged take no notice whatever of the
points that are looked for by the practical
poultry-farmer. The Orpingtons are always
a mass of useless feathers, huge, coarse-
boned creatures vrith dull, languid-looking
eyes. To look at they are everything the
poultry-farmer doesn’t want. The Leghorns
are nearly as bad —rakish-looking brutes
with huge combs that weigh their heads
down.
The really good layers are only to be
found in the “utility” classes, which are
stuck at the end of the catalogue, as though
these birds were poor relations. Here you
will see Orpingtons that are tight-feathered
birds with small combs, stoutly framed but
not coarse, with eyes that shine like lire —
the unmistakable signs of the heavy layer.
And the Leghorns will be found much
smaller and neater looking, with smaller
combs, scratching round their pens, certain
egg machines.
Gradually the utility man is demonstrat-
ing that he is right. The Australian Black
Orpington, known abroad as the Australorp
and admitted to be the world’s best layer
even in the U.S.A., is not, according to
the standard men, an Orpington at all. Very
well, let it be an Australorp. It is signifi-
cant that in a present-day poultry show a
good 60 per cent, of the exhibits are
game and bantams, . whilst the remaining
40 per cent, consist mostly of such rare breeds
as Buttercups, Spanish, Campines, etc. But
the poultry-farmer is entitled to have his
birds judged by the profits they are capable
of producing. Why shouldn’t we follow the
American idea of having only one standard
—5O per cent, of points being allotted for
egg-laying characteristics and the remaining
50 for plumage, comb, etc.? We have hung on
to the English standards long enough.
LOSSES IN CAPONISING.
“Spike” : As a student at a N.S.W. Gov-
ernment experiment farm I once assisted the
poultry chief to caponise some two score
fine young birds. Although he was backed with
sound knowledge and experience, plus a set
of instruments that would have turned a
Macquarie-street surgeon envious, within 4<S
hours there were 26 casualties.
No doubt the capon is a highly relished
dish from the epicure’s point of view; but
the Australian poultry-breeder has long real-
ised the fact that to place this type of bird
on the market, at the expense of 50 p.c. of
his valuable stock, is merely an invitation to
the insolvency court.
IS THE HORSE-COW CROSS
POSSIBLE?
“W.M.S.”: Since reading the par. in the
Land page on this subject I came across
an article written by Professor E. W. Lind-
strom, of the lowa State College, U.S.A.
This authority affirms that crossing between
distinctive families is “We can-
(Continued on page 31.)


m
m
'"V [ y
r. :V
■
:
m
VITALITY
STOCK. LICK
■ m
Wj
11
H
■
■
I
I
■
11
n I
m
:
m
u
'■ ■ ■
W
m
a
11
>
■
.
ik.
i
■■ •■ .
® : :
/
1.
■ :
m
M
¥
§
mm
\
ALI
m
m
iHi
j^OVTOIbB,
Hft
«
v
OCN^
■
a
■
| tillll
1 Si!
HHMns
■
■
& ,
m.
L
m
m
B
i mm
d
0
Q
fl
0
a
m
tm
99
§«
□
ir^y
8111111
hHB
t§SB«
t H
MMhhuasustp
Mr. Sheepowner
After all !!
The testimony of PRACTICAL and EXPERIENCED
men is the best guide. . . f . .
Junee,
August 9, 1926.
Deal- Sirs, —In February, 1925, I took delivery of a line of Weaners which I purchased
on Monaro,.and after I got them home they turned out to be very flukey and were dying
like flies. I purchased a ton of “LIX-ALL” through your Agents, at . junee, and began
giving it to these flukey sheep. Very soon I saw an improvement in them and they left
off dying, and .in the course of a few months they had left off coughing and they were
quite : sound and healthy. It gives me much pleasure and satisfaction to'recommend the
“LIX-ALL” to anyone who may have flukey sheep.
Kindly send me.another half ton immediately. Yours faithfully,
“Eurolie,” Junee Reefs. JOS. HEFFERNAN.
“Marian Yale,”
Bungonia Road,
‘ Via Goulburn,
April 29, 192 C.
Dear Sir, —I already have a supply of “LIX-ALL,”
and have used same in the dry time, and I find it
to be a good lick; sheep put on condition, whilst
other sheep on other licks lost condition. Would
like to tell you that I have recommended it to
others in this district, and will do by best for
you.
I remain, Yours truly,
(Signed) H. W. RIX.
r
Sole Agents for New South Wales:—
THE COMMONWEALTH WOOL & PRODUCE CO., LTD., 3 BENT STREET, SYDNEY
r


dpvw Ad(ld ADdfipOOp)
dx£) dip
/WuipUDJSJTlQ
*sS.
<33
33
3U33-
C—3,
c—7 r~z*,
-3 £5?
C5
■u.
w
Goodyear .is the largest
Tyre Company in the
world; has manufactured
and sold 100,000,000 pneu-
matic tyres; maintains the
largest research department
of the tyre industry; uses
approximately one-seventh
of the world’s supply of
crude rubber; and, amongst
many other improvements,
introduced the first prac-
tical cord tyre, the pneu-
matic truck tyre and the
new balloon tyre—the Aus-
tralian Goodyear Company,
whose plant is now in
course of operation, will re-
ceive the full benefit of the
patents, designs and trade
secrets of the parent com-
pany, enabling it to produce
a tyre in this country the
equal in all respects of the
Goodyear Tyre now being
sold in Australia.
Coming from a company the size and character
of Goodyear, the statement which heads this
advertisement is doubly significant.
It is issued only after testing its complete truth
and weighing its full meaning in terms of the
highest public interest.
This is the greatest tyre Goodyear has ever
made!
By the resources and skill devoted to its
manufacture, by the experience, research and
authority represented in its advanced design,
we believe we may properly say it is Good-
year’s greatest tyre.
This is the new Goodyear balloon tyre with
the new-type All-Weather Tread!
The first big advantage of this great tyre is
traction. Safe, surefooted, skidless, the sharp-
edged diamond-shaped blocks in the tread s
centre seize, grip and hang on.
The second big advantage is long, slow, even
tread wear, as opposed to the “cupping’ and
“pot holes’’ until now characteristic of wear
in balloons.
The third big advantage is freedom from
structural failure and similar troubles, such as
casing rupture and shoulder breaks.
These major benefits proceed from the new-
type semi-flat tread with its heavily-ribbed
All-Weather pattern, and from the amazingly
durable and elastic SUPERTWIST cords of
which the casing is made.
Not only is the tread on this new tyre the sur-
vivor from eighty separate and individual
designs tested under harshest service, but the
tyre as a whole is heir to all the lessons learned
in operating the Goodyear tyre-testing fleet
last year, a total of 5,400,000 tyre-miles.
In every particular, therefore, this new-type
All-Weather Tread Goodyear is the true
exemplar of the most progressive tyre com-
pany in the world—
—the company which has never halted in
its onward sweep to leadership and which
in recent years has steadily increased its pace.
—which has made and placed into service
more than 100,000,000 tyres, millions more
than any other maker.
—which alone uses nearly one-seventh of all
the crude rubber produced annually on the
earth, almost 50 per cent, more than any other
manufacturer.
—which every year for the last ten years has
made and sold more tyres than any other
company in the world.
—which since the post-war deflation period
has stepped up the productivity of its man-
power something more than 100 per cent.
—which focuses on development, chemical
research and service work the largest engineer-
ing body of its kind.
—which operates its own cotton plantation,
textile mills, rubber plantation, coalmines, fac-
tories and branches, to the end of delivering
the tyre-user the greatest possible value for his
money.
These facts and others like them explain why
it is supremely meaningful to say the new All-
Weather Tread Goodyear Balloon is the great-
est tyre Goodyear has ever made.
It is outstandingly the newest, tested reason
why more people, the world over, ride on
Goodyear Tyres than on any other kind.
£


clou
METAE GATES* FENtt
Attractive Design and
Durable Construction
Cyclone Metal Gates and Fences are ideal for the home
frontage! The Cyclone Fence illustrated is Orna-
mental Fabric, Style “F.** Heavily galvanised wire is
used in this fence, which always looks attractive and
does not need painting. Cyclone Metal Gates CBn he
selected to match any style of Cyclone Fencing.
Cyclone Illustrated Catalogue
Posted on Request
•V
&
.
Shut the Gate Quick, ttlummie
i t*
»vrtvm
CYCLONE FENCES.GATE CO.P T - L™
COMMERCE BUILDING, ASH ST. (off 350 Georfce St.), SYDNEY
189-191 William Street, Melbourne
Exchange Buildings, Pirie Street, Adelaide
HARBOR TOURIST TRIPS
W eather and other circumstances permitting.
From Fort Macquarie at 10.15 a.nt. and 2.15 p.m.
EVERY TUESDAY AND EVERY THURSDAY.
lures: All-clay, 2/G; Half-day. 1/6. Children, 1/- and Gd.
Luncheon by reservation at Clifton Gardens Hotel Artemoon Tea on Hoard.
SPECIAL TRIP EVERY SUNDAY , tl No. 6 JETTY, CIRCULAR QUAY
Adults, 1/6. Children, 6d.
Tels.: 86276 (4 lines).
Sydney Ferries, Ltd.
V/
'pit
MB
>'r:~r<-u
OUGHNESi
IN A
m&mr
mi
Obtainable from every ARKS Ba.
Radio dealer in Australia.
Milliard P.M. Valves are British Made.
BUY BRITISH.
r RADIO VALVE
Every man who uses a Muilarc
P.M. Valve in his radio receiver
has found it.
Found it to his intense satisfaction
and delight.
The P.M. Filament can be tied in knot*
after 1000 hours life. It is the < nl>
Filament which carries the publishec
report of the British Government Labora-
tory Test.
It holds the key to perfect and economi-
cal radio reception.
There is a Mullard P.M. Valve with the
Wonderful P.M. Filament for every
holder in your set.
FIT VALVES
For 2-volt accumulator
P.M.-l lI.F 0.1 iinip. 13/6
P.M.-l L.F ....0.1 amp. 13/6
P.M.-la (Resist Cap.) 0.1 amp. 13/6
P.M.-2 (Power) 0.15 amp. 13/6
For .’/-volt accumulator or 3 dry cells
P.M.-3 (General Purpose) 0.1 amp. 13/6
P.M.-3a (Resist Cap.) 0.1 amp. 18/6
P.M.-4 (Power) 0.1 amp. 13/6
For 6-volt accumulator or J f dry cells
P.M.-5 (General Purpose) .... 0.1 amp. 13/6
P.M.-ST) (Res. Capacity) .... 0.1 amp. 13/6
P.M.-6 (Power) 0.1 amp. 13/6
Super power valves for lasi L.F. stage
P.M.-254 (4 volts) 0.25 amps. 15/-
P.M.-256 (6 volts) 0.25 amps. 15/-
All Mullard Valves are made at the Milliard
Works, Balham., London-, England.
Mullard
THE * MASTER, • VALVE
Advl. The Milliard Wireless Service Co., Ltd., Milliard House, Denmark St., London, 11.0. Eng.
not cross the bovine and the equine (horse)
families, nor can we hybridise the rose and
the pea families. There are no exceptions
ro this statement." Among animals generic
crosses authentically reported are cow-
buffalo, hen-guinea fowl, hen-pheasant,
guinea fowl-turkey, mallard duck-Muscovj
duck. In those cases the mating creatures
have in no instance been so separated as are
ihe bovine and the equine families. The
progeny of these crossings have been few
and of uncertain occurrence and in any case
have proved to be sterile, so that the mating
was futile. From the mating of the cow
and the bison offspring of both sexes occur,
but in these cases it was found that the
males usually died at birth. If they did
survive they were infertile. The females,
on the other hand, were fertile. There have
been successful crosses between dog-wolf,
horse-ass, horse-zebra, lion-tiger, cow-zebu
and cow-yak. But in these cases mating
took place between animals belonging to the
same genus (or family) but of different
species. It is a very different proposition
when we come to the mating of members of
two equally-distinctive and highly-specialised
families, such as horse and ox.
FIGHTING BUKII FIRES.
“Liss": “Nota Bene" (B. 30/G/’27) has
been singularly lucky in his bush fires if
men on horseback have been able to beat
them out. Fires on the open downs in this
country (N.Q.) sometimes travel at the rate
of 20 miles per hour and usually at from
four to eight miles.
The beater found most serviceable up
here, and one which requires no attention
when in disuse, save to be hung on the wall,
is made this way. Take a piece of thick
rubber and canvas machinery belting 18
inches long by 10 inches wide; cut through
one layer of canvas, across the width, four
inches from one end and two inches from the
other end; peel the layer off between these
cuts, thus leaving a strip at each end thicker
than the middle. If the belting is heavy enough
this may be done on each side. The two-
inch strip is the business end of the beater
and is intended to make it fall better. Now
take a piece of 3 x 2 inch pine, 6 inches
long, and make a slot along the centre of
the two-inch face about ljin. deep and wide
enough to take the piece of belting. This is
slipped in and bolted in three places. A
Bole is bored in the centre of the 2in. face
on the opposite side to accommodate the
handle, which may be of a length and a
thickness to suit individual tastes. Worn
belting suitable for this can usually be pur-
chased cheap from factories.
BLOWFLY SUPERSTITIONS.
“B. Temple" : Now it is “T.J.” who implies
(B. 14/7/'27) that rabbit destruction is
largely responsible for the blowfly pest. Ex-
periments have established the travelling
range of the fly to be 12 or 14 miles. Yet it
does its gruesome work, and does it thoroughly,
in localities a hundred miles from where rab-
bits have ever been seen, let alone poisoned.
Thirty years ago there were just as many
rotting stock carcases and just as many blow-
flies as there are to-day. Yet a fly-blown
sheep was a curiosity; and lambs, tails un-
dressed, went unscathed by the million.
Now. for some reason best known to itself,
the fly has developed a taste for the sheep
as an egg-depository. It is not due to any
alteration in the wool, constitution or general
health of the sheep. Flocks differing little
in any way from those of 30 years ago are
not immune. There are certain seasons when
nothing will save a sheep from attack. But,
in ordinary ones, crutching done to suit the
sheep and not the shearer, and before the
first sign of the blowfly appears, will reduce
the trouble to a minimum. The cost of
crutching—the fly apart—isn’t dead loss. The
absence of stained wool from pieces and dags
froin locks goes a long way towards paying
for it. As to burning carcases, it is an
excellent practice from every point of view,
but not always possible. There are places
where the carcases would have to be dragged
miles to timber and bare ground.
MURRAY IRRIGATION PRODUCTS.
“Titun": A commentary on the argument
of “K.K.” and “Croesus” is the resolution of
a conference of Mildura fruit-growers con-
demning the “group system," under which a
small party, usually Greeks or Italians, agree
to keep a grower’s vines in order for nothing,
their reward being the use of the space
between the vines for intensive cultivation.
Evidently they make a do of the sidelines,
and the blockholder shouldn’t be above fol-
lowing their lead. As for sidelines, how
about asparagus? It practically grows wild
throughout the Mildura settlement. Then
there’s the Melbourne market waiting for
early peas and beans. The Red Cliffs Diggers
have started with peas, and their cheques for
the early crops are helping to put them on
their feet.
TWISTED FEET.
“Stump Jump”: A common complaint
amongst farm horses is twisted feet. This
is caused by neglect. Young unbroken horses
usually are not attended to until brought
in to be broken. Joints should be looked at
to see that they are not injured. When the
foot is level the column of bones should be
at right angles to the ground. If the hoof
is low on one side, the other side should
be trimmed down, if possible to the same
level. If the toe of the horse is long, shorten
with a rasp. If the hoof is soaked in water
the toe will come off more easily. The frog
of a horse should always touch the ground.
HINTS FOR THE FARM.
“Pick" : When renewing decayed posts in
a worn-out fence the worst job is getting
out the knobby butts of old wood. It may
be done with a roller, trace chain and lever,
without any need for digging. Hitch the
doubled chain as low as possible around the
post, bringing its double over a stout wooden
roller; then beneath. Leave the end loop
.'f the chain to protrude just far enough to
admit the end of the lever, standing perpen-
dicularly. Then haul backwards on the lever,
and either the post or the continent will
come up.
A ufu" : It is easy to cure split hoof. Sear
the crack with a red-hot iron, burning the
hoof right up under the quick, there making
a round hole. Next, make a shoe that is
joined from heel to heel, with clips on either
side as well as the front. This shoe will not
give and acts as a clamp. The burning out
encourages the new hoof to grow. If the
burning is done properly, and plenty of
grease or Stockholm tar is applied to the
hoof, the worst of cracks will heal up in two
to four months. While he is under treat-
ment never gallop a horse over a hard sur-
face.
“Yufu" : Here's a top-notch harness dress-
ing. (let a fresh shin bone, break it open
and extract the marrow. Melt the marrow
down and add an equal quantity of castor oil.
Rub tin' mixture warm into the leather, first
washing the sweat and grease off with warm
water and softsoap. Never use castor oil
alone; it will perish any leather.
“Boronia”: To mend a leaking tank which
cannot be emptied and properly soldered,
cover the leaks with soap and dust over
several times with dry cement. After an
hour or two repeat the cement-dusting pro-
cess. Opening seams or bad leaks treated
this day will often last for years.
“Barinac”: Farmers who find that bunny
is fastidious in the matter of baits should
try oil of rhodium. Made by all manufac-
turing chemists, it is cheap, and tempts
bunny when he's too familiar with poisons
to take them neat.
“Manners Street”: Before placing eggs
under a broody hen or in an incubator, dip
them in methylated spirits for a second. This
helps to ward off early disease in the chicks.
Another precaution well worth while is'
spraying the incubator, broody coop and all
utensils in the hatching-shed with a good
disinfectant both before and after the hatch.
“Mirwa” : To hasten the growth of
rhubarb, take an empty petrol tin, remove
the top and bottom, and secure it well over
the rhubarb crown. Inside the tin and
around the rhubarb crown pack well-rotted
stable manure to a depth of two inches.
This method helps in three ways:—(l) The
young leaves are' protected when they un-
fold; (21 the manure ensures waymtii and
food (rhubarb is a gross feeder) ; (3) the
leaves shoot upwards, seeking light and sun-
shine.
“Bar K.”: When a pig shows signs of
exhaustion from heat, or from being run
about, throw a little water on the ground
and he will lie down and wallow in it.
More water can then be splashed on his
belly as he rolls. But on no account should
it be applied to his back or head until lie
is quite normal. Even hosing down very
fat pigs in the sty in very hot weather is
risky, unless they have been cooled in the
manner described. Concrete or brick sties
should have a depression into which a tin
of water may be thrown in hot weather to
provide a bath; mud wallows in the “store”
yards will conserve many pounds of fat, and
consequently feed, if only through the con-
tentment it gives the grunters.
“Mathari”: To keep fowls healthy use
trays to catch droppings. They shoiild be
at least 3ft. from the lowest perch, and
every morning should be removed and
washed or scraped. Roup, canker and kin-
dred ills are spread by carelessness in this
regard. While the work is being done a dab
of paraffin or wood-preserving oil on the
edges of the tray and the ends of perches
will repay by killing lice that shelter there.
“M.ff.”: Here is a way to compel ducks
to work profitably in the orchard. Make a
movable pen in 10ft. sections out of wire-
netting and 6ft. supports, and every week
shift it, always keeping a fruit-tree for
them to rest around. Also keep the water-
trough at the base of the tree. The result
will be a fertilising system which can be
dug over after the pen moves along. Besides,
the ducks 'will clean up vermin, snails, etc.
“Hop Scrub”: Yellow sulphur, long used
in Australia as an eradicant of plant pests
and diseases, has been superseded in America
by grey sulphur, a by-product of gas manu-
facture. It is of fine colloidal texture, and
has better covering power and is more
efficient than the yellow form. It could be
manufactured here, and would keep in the
country the money spent on sulphur imports.
“Saaedi”: Isn’t it about time graziers
gave some attention to breeding hornless
merino rams? The horns are ornamental,
perhaps, but they are a source of danger and
discomfort to the ram. Blowflies get in
their most deadly work behind the horns,
and are most difficult to rout from that
position—more especially if the horns lie
close to the head —and shearers waste time
trying to remove the wool from round the
horns—frequently it means using hand
shears, as the machine clippers are unsuit-
able. Rams are caught by their horns in
the forks of trees and stumps, and damage
each other in battle to an extent impossible
if they were hornless.
“Leo Lear” : How about our page starting
a campaign for something out of the ordi-
nary in naming dairy cows? We see bundles
of Daisies. Fairies, Mauds, etc.; or else
“Pride of Creation the Sixty-fifth,” and so
on. A little originality is needed. I recently
struck on a West Vic. farm one milker bail-
ing up to the title of Trinity. You see, she
had only three teats.
* * . * *
“Prop”: Rc sheep-stealing by motor truck.
A man on the Flinders River (Q.) in 1924
was offered 70 long-tailed lambs by a motor-
man : an inducement to buy was the clean
ear. allowing the buyer to put in his own
registered mark. As to a revival of old-time
penalties the police of N.W. Queensland now
only charge with “wrongfully branding” or
“illegally using,” as a jury has not been
empanelled for some years that will convict
of anything more serious.
* * *
The Maoriland-invented Corriedale sheep
has been getting a lot of bouquets lately.
About the best: was the purchase of 10 rams
and 20 ewes by a famous Scottish sheep-
master, James Piper of Burntisland, lie
first spotted the breed at Wembley Exhibi-
tion and bought a small trial lot. These after
“partial clipping” in October were housed at
night for 10 days and then let run on a
hillside. In spite of a. bitter winter, in which
the sheep were several times buried in snow-
drifts, they stood the climate splendidly, and
Oie additional shipment was ordered from
M.L.


T
he first puff convinces you
of the superior quality of
*i 6
JLOj
01
Army Club
CIGARETTES
20
for
1/6
In pure ribbed watermarked rice paper,
CAVANDERS Ltd., London (Est. 1775), Pioneers of Hygienic Cigarette Packing.
rr
w
&
CORK-TIPPED
or PLAIN
SMOKE-OH!
It’s the wife of the gay dog that leads
llie dog’s life.
Putting two and two together is a quick
way to the Divorce Court.
Some motorists’ lives seem to be all
skittles and bier.
* 51=
Say what you like about pawnbrokers, the
tribe sets this good example—they take a
great interest in their business.
Young Doris has a certain grace,
Which charms her simplest feat;
E’en when of liquid she partakes,
She always has it neat.
QUEENSLAND. OMEGA.
* *
Bending the elbow is a big strain on a
man’s pocket.
A mouse has been known to run up a
girl’s dress. But not lately. He would have
to risk too much in the open.
A POINT TO CONSIDER.
“Do you think it’s unlucky to be married
on a Friday?”
“Well, you know, you can’t get a divorce
until Monday.”
Too many of our modern plays suffer from
indecent sox-posure.
More middle-aged people would take on
dieting if it wasn't for the rules governing
it.
Dempsey lias made over £600,000 in a
few years. As the Frenchman would say,
that's something out of the box.
“Yairs,” said Dave, “old Casey was burnt
out last night. He lost two paddocks of
cane.” “Cripes!” said Dad. “you musta
been able to see a fire like that miles off.”
“Yairs,” said Dave; “fact, I cud see it
cornin’ months off.”
A sk
“There’s no big fish in the sea,”
The stranger remarked to me,
As I came on the pier
With my angling gear,
Intent on a “catch” for tea.
Said I, “Is that really so?”
Said he, “Yes, I ought to know.
I’ve been one of the triers,
But all the big liars
Have caught them long ago.”
victokta. E. T.
NURSERY RHYME FOR BASIC-
WAGERS.
Twinkle, twinkle, little star,
Oft I wonder just how fai-
ls the region where you dwell
Up above our li.C.L.
N.s.w. 11. M.
A woman can put on dog and still be
catty.
*
The best insurance for a pedestrian is to
buy a car.
At dances these nights there’s many a
sip ’twixt the cuff and the hip.
❖ *
Cupid is no sport. He doesn’t care whether
his victims are bagged sitting or flying.
Most affable lie seemed to me.
A quid I lent—my caution dim.
But now my friend l never sec:—■
It seems ’twas touch and go with him.
N.S.W. 11 Alton) Hardupp.
The Twentieth Century ..pirate goes about
seeking whom he may devoir.
From the way some missionaries live, it
seems that they convert the niggers—to their
own use.
When a woman is addicted to scandal-
mongering with a neighbor, she goes down
and talks by the yard.
The desire for cremation is growing, it
is said. It is an independent age and people
like to urn their eternal rest.
“Her feet beneath her petticoat
Like little mice peeped in and out”—
The phrase pleased flappers of a day
That like the petti’s passed away.
To-day the man who wrote like that
The maid would say had got a rat.
N.S.W. P. I*.
Many of the shadows that fall across a
man’s path are caused by him standing in
his own light.
* =:-■
During a brawl in Fitzroy, a seaman found
that the man he had knocked insensible was
liis long-lost brother. Spiff located him.
A thief at the Footscray (Vie.)
course tried to rob a plainclothes
constable in mistake for a punter.
He picked the wrong pocket.
s!= *
The woman with a past generally
knows how to get the best present.
“ J.11.T.” : The ’phone rang. The
district superintendent (four miles
off) wanted Finnegan tile: lengths-;
man. I called Finnegan in. He
approached the 'phone cautiously,
lifted the receiver, listened and re-
plied, but with his face some dis-
tance off. “Speak right into it,” I
urged. He turned. “It’s more’n my
job is worth.” lie whispered thickly.
“I’ve just had three rums.”
Man proposes, and—with some alacrity-
woman accepts.
It is often the quietest man who does the
most shouting in a bar.
❖ *
Owners of pony racecourses round about
Sydney would like the hare and the dog that
bit ’em.
When a man has received a watch as a
gift he begins to realise that there is no
time like the present.
The Scotch are the shortest race in tlm
world. (P.S. —If you doubt this, ask half
a dozen of them for a loan.)
Either Adam or the avenging angel was
an Australian. Otherwise, why the refer-
ence to the “flaming sword”?
Charged at a police-court the other day
with jumping on a man’s head, . trying to
gouge out his eyes, kicking him in the peck,
pulling his hair and smashing five of his
teeth, a Sydney youth pleaded that he was
a footballer and thought it Avas Saturday
afternoon.
Countess O’Byrne, aged 27, who believes
in lucky seven, was seven minutes late for
her marriage with Lieut. Glen, aged 37,
on 27/7/’27. Seventy guests ate the seven
tiers of wedding-cake and drank wine No.
77 under 17 dozen bunches of lilies. The
couple left on a seven months’ honeymoon.
And when the seventh baby arrives they
will both be in the seventh heaven —perhaps.
THE REWARD.
With slippers-frequently and free
He trained his kids to please;
And now in his calm old-age he
Enjoys his slippered ease.
N.s.w. 11. H.
This winter weather we look for the warm
spots.
A guilty conscience makes the whole world
kin.
Every woman’s reputation hangs on the
tongue of her friends.
Because we don't get all we expect, we
blame the weighs of the world.
Hundreds of barmaids acquire golden
crowns before they get to Heaven.
HIS MARRIAGE LINES.
The N.S.W. Labor party denies that its
slogan for the next election will be Reddy,
aye, Reddy.
When a man goes gay he cuts the knot of
the marriage tie, and the nots of the Com-
mandments.
He drove the car with extra care; obeyed
the silent cop;
Pedestrians turned round to stare, and
looked as if they’d drop.
And said: “Who’s that?”
At corners he would use the brake, near
schools he barely crawled.
At intersections lie would take so long that
others bawled
And gave back chat.
lie didn’t'seem to want to speed, and kept
her up in “high.”
Of every warning he’d take heed. And then
I found the why—
His tyre was flat!
QUEENSLAND. N. STOCKTON.
A society journal says that the monocle
will shortly be the vogue with society flap-
pers. It certainly fits in with fashion's
general scheme —it hides so little.
“In his blackest hour, what is it brings
the greatest comfort to a criminal?” a Syd-
ney preacher asked in his most impassioned
tones. It was more than a whisper that
swept forward from a back seat: “An
acquittal.”
* *
zl country hotel which used to show the
sign: “A Home Away From Home” has
taken it down. The proprietor found that
the men used to pass on to the boarding-
house.
The blows I’ve had—the horse that did not
win ;
The resurrection of forgotten debts ;
The love that cooled; the plans that tumbled
in.
And all the setbacks that a sinner gets —
All pale before those others that begin
(Oh, hated phrase!), “The Editor re-
grets” ....
victoria. Bock.
THE TLEECEMAN’S CRIME.
Pleeceman XY257 walked unhapily along
the street, his burly form looking burlyer
than usual. For to-night he was to do that
Deed without a Name which was to sackri-
fice his honor.
Bitterly he recalled the night when, walk-
ing merily along his Beat, whistling “A
Pleeceman’s Life is Not a Hapy One,” a
dark shadder confronted him.
“Aha, I have you in my power!” said the
shadder. “You are Bill Cummings; I am
Tom Dashliouud, and I know your secret.
Do what I want, and I will not betray you :
don’t what I want, and I will Expose you.”
Pleeccman XY257 turned pail. He harl
tried to go strate ever since he joined the
Force, but he had had a wild past. Well
he knew that to which the hated Tom Dash-
hound referd. It was the time when he
was caught in a two-up school using a
dubble-headed Penny.
He knew that his honor was at steak,
and his carear. Only last week he had been
made a senior constable, and three years
ago the Guvment had promisd that police
wages would be increasd. It was hard that
the Cup should be dashed from his lips.
And so he became an unwilling but help-
less victom to the hated blackmaler. lie
gave him two shillings every time he asked
for it. Hut at last the demands of his Tyrant
became more exacting.
“Histen !’’ he told him one night. "I know
where the Deeds are to be found. Once 1
have them in my cinches I will leave this
spot, and you will be trubbled with me No
More. I have chosen you to help me crack
the Safe.”
It was vain for Pleeceman XY257 to pro-
test ; he knew his Honor was in the mercy-
less hands of Tom. So hear he was to-
night, wearing, as well as his own, the
extra uniform which the blackmaler had
demanded.
A figure luined through the fog. Pleece-
man XY257 thought it must be Dashhound
from the way he lingerd; but Know! it
was not He.
Why should this man linger in the Spot
where h(! was to meat the hated blackmaler ?
Full of misgiving, our Hero quickly slipped
into the shadder of a deep doorway whilst
the Unknown was engaged in picking up a
cigarette-but.
Ha ! At last a step. As the hated form
of Tom Dashhound lumed through the fog.
the Unknown turned to meat him with a
Savage Snarl. “Aha! At last I have tracked
you down, Tom Dashhound!” exclamed he.
“Now I shall have my revenge!”
Pleeceman XY257, looking from his Re-
treat, saw the blackmaler Tremble.
“When I was a boy of ate,” said the
Unknown, “you were a big bully to me;
and at long last you stole, my agate taw.
All my life I have plottered to be revenged,
and now my hour is come, and I will kill
you!”
No sooner said than done. The bottle
paused a minute in the air and desendod
on the head of the hated blackmaler. It
was a feeble blow, and the bottle did
not break; but Torn Dashhound staggered.
“Better hit him again,” said our Hero,
stepping from his Concealment. The Un-
known looked round quickly, but saw from
the pleeceman’s pleasant smile that he was
Safe. This time the bottle broke. The mis-
creant was no more; and his assaleent
faded into the future.
Pleeceman XY257 felt that a grate load
was lifted from his mind: the danger of
Exposure was now a thing of'the past. With
thankful heart he knelt by the body and
gave thanks to God. He was always a
religious man, even in his youth, wild though
it had been. Then lie rose and gave the
THE DIRTY TRICKS THEY PLAY.
“’Ow’s things, Bill? ’Ave th’ police still got
yer set?”
“My oath they ’ave! They’re lettin’ th’
wife out of gaol next week!”
exercise to his legs which has been a tradi-
tion of the pleece since Peal invented them.
“I had better let somebody else tiud the
dead corpse,” he said.
He felt he might posserbly have done l’ong
in letting the Murderer escape: but he con-
sidered he was justerfied. By zeal to his
duty he would atone. In the next street
he arested a Lady for illegerly loitering with
no visible means of support.
Hamer, Junior.
DID HE?
They sat within a moonlit glade,
A. stalwart man and winsome maid,
And all was ecstasy.
The maiden —how she thrilled to hear
Her lover say, “You are, fond dear,
The breath of life to me!”
So shy she looked, and so demure,
It made him feel so very sure
He loved his little Beth ;
He blessed the moon which hid its head
Just when the maiden coyly said,
“Try could you hold your breath!”
VICTORIA.
LUCY HILI.


Real Old Scotch!
> '> •) ■) •) •)') ■) j ■) • > •) ■) ■> •) ■) •) ■) ■) ■j ■) •)') •
'j
'j
•j
•j
')
\)
')
')
'j
■j
■j
' j
‘j
«
J
• ' *
j
•;
' j
')
V
\ j
‘j
')
'J
')
'J
-j
V
* j
')
•j
•j
•j
')
')
•j
■)
"j
j
■J
’)
•j
•)
■
•)
'
■)
■j
■)
•)
'j
■j
1
1
J
J
V
J
i
')
V
J*JV•;'j') ') ') '.) *J .j ') ') V ') -J •; V-j 'j
MILLIONS AND MILLIONS OF GALLONS MATURING!
See the “White Horse” on the bottle when you
order Scotch Whisky. It is the guarantee of real old
Scotch, of unvarying quality and great age, carefully
matured to ensure smoothness and delicate flavour.
WHITE HORSE DISTILLERS LTD.,
Glasgow,
DALGETY
& COMPANY LTD.,
Agents.


iSg
Cars that Meet the
Sternest Road Tests
Wherever unusually hard transportation service is required
Dodge Brothers Motor Cars predominate.
In Australia, in North China, the Philippines, India, Peru
—where roads through vast agricultural areas, desert wastes
and over rugged mountains are a severe challenge to motor
transport—they comprise a high percentage of the total
cars in use.
One reason for the superiority of Dodge Brothers Motor
Cars is---they contain, in proportion to weight, a larger
percentage of costly Chrome Vanadium steel than any
other car at any price.
Standard Touring, £299; Standard Roadster, £299;
Sedan, £4lO.
Five disc wheels and Balloon Tyres.
Canada Cycle & Motor Co. (Victoria) Pty., Ltd., Melbourne
Austral Motors, Limited, Brisbane—Townsville
The Standardised Motors, Ltd., Sydney
Waymouth Motor Co., Ltd., Adelaide
Winterbottom Motor Co., Ltd., Perth
□□dee- Brothers
MOTOR CARS
m
p>
is
/
'■is
C 3
11/S/’27.


‘THE WOMAN'S MIRROR”
Contains everything that women should know, from kitchen to
drawing-room, from the cradle to old age.
FREE PATTERN EVERY WEEK.
It is the most remarkable Threepennyworth ever printed.
“THE WOMAN’S MIRROR.”
PUBLISHED EVERY TUESDAY,
Price
3d
CHOCOLATE
Wholesome nut bars, scrumptious plain bars or the new Neapoli-
tan dainty and convenient tablets packed in carton. Try C. D. M
Chocolate to-day made every day from Fresh Dairy Milk-
SeJ.
The Grafter and the Goose.
[FOR THE BULLETIN. ]
NEGOTIATING the racecourse gate suc-
cessfully, the Grafter landed in the
saddling paddock with two cigars and
a penny, which represented his worldly
possessions. The eternal struggle between
bookmakers and punters had begun. Some
two hundred “Tommies” with betting-bags
slung across their shoulders w r ere working
for dear life to find a favorite in the Maiden
Handicap, the toughest event in the Racing
Calendar to bet on and one of the hardest
races to win. Runners were flitting hither and
thither like wasps, conveying the latest mar-
ket quotations to their clients, the book-
makers. “Double” merchants were legion.
The stage was set for the day’s first gamble.
Wending his way to the outskirts of the
betting-ring, the Grafter viewed the crowd
with keen and practised eye. Into this
stream must be cast his net if he was to
show a profit on the day. But the prospects
were none too bright. Looking for "geese”
these days is like hunting for sunbeams in
charcoal.
For long he gazed at the crowd, scanning
each passer closely; then, plunging into the
throng, he drifted casually across the ring.
Presently he came abreast of the totalisator
and halted, his attention arrested by the
actions of two men some little distance away.
They stood in a queue at the totalisator
window immediately behind a stout alder-
manic-looking man, who, wedged in the
crowd, was perspiring profusely. Across his
chest he wore a heavy gold chain. From
the actions of the men behind him it was
evident that they had marked it as their
own.
The unwritten law of the game forbade
interference, and the Grafter looked on in-
terestedly. With infinite care the two men
manceuvered themselves into the desired posi-
tion. There was much hustling and jockey-
ing for positions in progress, and the crowd
was swaying backwards and forwards danger-
ously. The Grafter knew what the next
move would be. and it was not long in
coming. Suddenly, as though forced by
extra pressure from the rear, the taller of
the two men pushed heavily against their
victim, who raised his elbows to fend him-
self off from those in front of him. The
tall man’s hand shot out, and in a twinkling
he had the coveted chain and was slipping
like a weasel through the crowd. He drooped
his eyelid gravely as he passed the Grafter.
“Long Alec!” said that worthy to himself.
“The finest dip in Sydney. He’s drawing
his dividends early to-day. I’ll have to
see after mine.”
Turning, he plunged into the heart of the
betting-ring, his eyes sweeping the crowd
as he w'alked. There was not much time
to be lost if a goose was to be flashed before
barrier-rise, for the saddling bell had gone,
and soon the horses would be going out on
to the track.
Strolling along through the crowd he
combed it carefully for a likely-looking cus-
tomer, but not a goose was to be seen.
He was about to leave the betting-ring
and continue his search elsewhere, when his
eye lit on a quaint-looking individual who
was engaged in making a bet with a near-by
bookmaker. The man on whom his gaze
rested was a rural-looking chap in a brown
felt wide-brimmed hat. His beard was red
and long, his eyes light blue and a suit
of ready-made clothes encased his wiry frame.
Around his neck w r as a crumpled collar which
appeared to be causing him uneasiness.
“Saved!” muttered the Grafter. “A goose
at last. Now we shan’t be long.”
Having completed his business with the
bookmaker the Goose steered a course to-
wards the grandstand. The Grafter fol-
lowed, keeping at a safe distance behind.
Emerging from the ring, the leader passed
close by the members’ stand, turned abruptly
to the right, and drifted over to the then
almost deserted lawn in front of the grand-
stand. Here he halted and. taking his race-
book from his pocket, studied it thought-
fully.
The Grafter was wondering how best to
approach him, when a Heaven-sent runner
dashing towards the leger fence sent the
book spinning out of the Goose’s hand. It
landed face downwards at the Grafter’s feet.
Fortune stood at his elbow.
Picking up the book, the Grafter closed
it carefully and returned it to its owner.
“They're a flamin’ nuisance, those run-
ners,” he remarked.
The Goose nodded his thanks. “Yes, they
are a bit on the rough side, mister,” he
replied. “We don't have pests like them
up our way. What do they call them run-
ners for?”
“Because they’re always on the run, I
suppose,” laughed the Grafter. “Do you
mind if I have a look at your book? I
want to see what colors the horse I backed
is runnin’ in.”
He reached over, and, taking the book,
opened it at the first race. They were a
poor lot of sprinters, and the Grafter picked
on a horse that looked to have less chance
of winning than its fellows.
“Here’s my horse,” he said, making a
mark against a horse’s name with his thumb-
nail —‘Sand Storm, cerise and blue, gold
cap.’ ”
The Goose displayed some interest. “Oh,
you’re on Sand Storm, are you?” he ex-
claimed. “I had a fancy for him myself,
but I followed the newspaper tips and put
my money on Mildred.”
“It’s between the two of them, anyhow,”
said the Grafter, returning the book to its
owner. “What beats them will win. I
banged a tenner on Sand Storm at lives,”
he added casually. “What price did you
get about Mildred?”
“Fours,” answered the other.
“Fours!” exclaimed the Grafter. “Crikey!
You must have struck a short-odds bookie.
I heard plenty of lives on offer. Who did
you bet with?”
“I don’t remember the name of the book-
maker,” returned the Goose, “but I’ll soon
find out.” He withdrew from Iris pocket a
battered-looking wallet which opened out like
a small concertina. It was apparently empty,
but cunningly concealed from view was a
pocket arrangement which he drew out from
the side of the wallet, exposing to view a
betting-ticket.
“FI Harden,” read the Grafter aloud.
“He don’t bet extra-long odds, but he’ll pay
you if you win. That’s a tricky wallet
you’ve got." he added.
THE NORBERT NEW CHUMS GO A-RABBITING.
“Yes.” nodded the Goose. “It belonged
to my dad’s old man. I carry it
when I come to Sydney. It’s as well to be
careful down here.” He slid the pocket
back into place and, closing the wallet,
returned it to his pocket.
There was silence for a while which the
Grafter presently broke. “You ought to have
a bit on Sand Storm.” he remarked, watch-
ing the Goose out of the corner of his eye.
“He done a wonderful gallop yesterday
morning.”
“Did he?" returned the Goose. “He’s not
a bad-lookin’ horse. I had a good look at
him.”
“And he’s as good as he looks,” said the
Grafter. “The only horse I’m frightened
of is the neddy you backed —Mildred.”
“If you think lie’s that good,” the Goose
rejoined, “I’d better put a saver on him.”
"Yes,” said the Grafter musingly. “It
wouldn’t be a bad line, unless you feel like
saving a tenner with me.”
The Goose assented without a moment’s
hesitation. “I'm only too pleased,” lie re-
plied. “We’ve both got a fancy for each
other’s horse. If Mildred wins I give you
a tenner, and if Sand Storm wins you give
me a tenner. Is that it?”
"It’s a bet,” said the Grafter. “Let’s go
over and look at the race.”
They crossed to the fence and watched
the horses, which were lining up for the
start. The field was not a large one, but
the starter had his work cut out to get
the horses up to the barrier. A flighty little
bay was the cause of most of the trouble.
When everything was going nicely he’d
wheel and face the opposite way. Occasion-
ally lie varied the performance by lashing
out with his hind feet, which caused a
scatter among his nearest competitors.
“They ought to send that: bay horse to
the outside,” observed the Goose. “lie'll be
kickin’ one of their heads off directly."
“So long as he don’t kick one of our
horses, it don’t matter much," the Grafter
returned, “lie’s a bad-tempered little cow,
anyway. He belongs to Ken Chambers.”
There followed some more manoeuvering;
then suddenly the starter got the horses into
line, and they sailed away with a beautiful
start. The bay colt found his legs sooner
than the others and ripped across to the
rails at the head of the field. I.ohind him
came a jockey in blue, and almost at his
girth raced two horses abreast.
“See them two horses racin' together,
third?” asked the Grafter of his companion.
The Goose nodded.
“Well, the outside horse is my bloke. Sand
Storm,” volunteered the Grafter. “I’ll see
where your horse is.” He ran his eye back
along the field in search of Mildred. “There
she is,” he exclaimed presently. “The brown
horse lyin’ eighth on the rails.”
The field swept around the Jirst turn
and dashed along the back of the course.
The brown horse still had charge of affairs,
but Sand Storm had improved his. position
slightly.
“Your horse Seems to be goin’ well.” re-
marked the Goose. “Look, he’s nearly level
with that second horse now.”
“Too true he is,” the Grafter rejoined,
Vv'ith an assumption of heartiness he did not
feel. “It’s a good thing one of our horses
is in the running, anyhow.”
He turned again to Mildred, who was
boxed in between three other steeds and
appeared to be drifting back. “You ain’t
got much hope, old girl,” he muttered re-
gretfully. “By eripes, you ain’t!”
The horses negotiated the back of the
course, rattled past the six-furlong post and
tornadded towards the neck of the course
in a cloud of dust. Sand Storm improved
his position once more and was now only
a stride or two behind the leader. Conjuring
an extra burst of speed from somewhere,
the brown horse tried to shake him off, but
Sand Storm hung on as a woman hangs on
to her youth. Presently he began to eat
up the track between himself and the leader,
and as they rounded the bend and swooped
into the straight he ran up level with him.
The Grafter swore softly. “By eripes, it
will be the dead finish if the cow happens
to win.” he muttered. “This bloke'll take
a bit of sliakin’ off.”
“Eh?" said the Goose.
“I didn't speak,” returned the Grafter.
“I was just wonderin’ if that horse of mine
can hold out long enough to won.”
Almost as lie ’spoke Sand Storm crowded
on a full head of steam and shot past the
brown horse like an arrow-.
“I'm gone,” the Grafter said under his
breath. “I’m gone to the flamin’ pack. I
think I'll slip the painter.”
lie was about to edge aw-ay. when from
the peaks of the grandstand there came a
deafening yell.
“Mildred!” roared the crowd. “Mildred!”
The Grafter's eyes swept the field, and he
added liis voice to the general roar.
Mildred was coming like a southerly
breeze. Wliew! What hacks she made of
ilie opposition! Abreast of the leger she
had cut down the brown horse and w-as
tornadoing on the leader at terrific speed.
At Ihe distance she reached Sand Storm’s
shoulder, and the boy on Sand Storm brought
his whip into play. It w-as so much wasted
effort. Mildred swept past him as if he
were anchored and won with two or three
lengths to spare.
The Goose whooped joyfully. “My word,
i lial wasn't bad tipping,” lie cried. "We
picked the first and second horses.”
“That’s right,” the Grafter agreed, “It
looked any odds on my horse for a bit.
It’s lucky I saved a tenner with you.”
Catching the Goose by the arm lie piloted
him over to the outskirts of the betting-ring.
“You go over and collect your money,” he
said. “I'll wait for you under this tree.”
Wh en the Goose had departed, the Grafter
laughed softly. “Fancy harpooning a tenner
first crack out of the box," he chuckled.
“A streak of luck all right!”
From where he stood he could just make,
out the Goose’s bookmaker, his head and
shoulders discernible above the crowd. In
another few- minutes the Goose would be
cashing his ticket, and the thought made
the Grafter chuckle once more.
It had not been a desire to separate him-
self from, the Goose that had influenced the
Grafter in his decision to wait for him
under the tree, but rather a respect fox-
tlie racecourse detectives, who are ever on
the watch for “workers” who pick up with
chance acquaintances. At a spot not twenty
paces from where the Goose’s bookmaker
carried on his business, detectives employed
by the race club congregated after each race.
It was much too risky to anchor in their
vicinity.
Five, eight, ten minutes went past while
the Grafter waited patiently for the Goose’s
return. Another five minutes slid by, and
the Grafter became a little uneasy. Not
that he doubted the Goose’s veracity—he
w-as too good a judge of human nature not
to know- that the Goose was square. Evidently
something w-as detaining him.
“I xvas a goat to let him go on his own.”
the Grafter said to himself. Ho craned his
neck to see into the betting-ring. It xvas
beginning to thin out now and the people
were making towards the lawn.
“No, . I can’t see any sign of him. I
think I’ll look him up.”
The Grafter w-as on the point of moving
aw-ay when a tall man appeared from no-
w-here and came to a stop beside him. It
w-as the fellow the Grafter had detected
absconding with the stout man's watch-
chain earlier in the day. He groped in his
pocket searchingly and, producing a cigar-
ette end, lit it.
“Was the old bloke I saw you cartin’
around a friend of yours?” he asked of the
Grafter presently.
“Oh. no,” the Grafter returned. “He was
just a chap I picked up on the course. Why ?”
"I was only wonderin’,” said the tall
man. “Alp and my mate saw him standin’
near a bookmaker awhile back and w-e ran
the rule over him. All he had on him w-as
an old leather purse. It was empty, so we
threw- it away.... Why, what’s the matter,
Grafter?”
CON DREW.


MAN
r
NEWS
ŕ
“Gra twist”
Work Shirt
12/6«. ci T te'36A
A good Strong
wearing shirt,
made of Grey
XwiSt Shirt-
ing thatrevels
in hard wear.
Shirts are
made with
two Breast Pockets to button.
Cut loosely all over for work
comfort. All Sizes, ‘Post tyrecs.
PIKE BROTHERS
LIMITED
In Queen Street, (Brisbane
HEWSO
THE WONDER CLEANSER,
Removes TAR, GREASE, PAINT, etc., from your hands instantly
in COLD WATER.
Unexcelled for cleaning BATHS, SINKS, KITCHEN UTENSILS,
etc. Removes RUST AND BURNS from SAUCEPANS.
Can be used as a BODY SOAP.
NO SODA.
Leaves Your Hands Like Velvet.
lid. PER Boz. TIN.
ASK TOUR GROCER, OR DIRECT FROM
GENERAL DISTRIBUTING CO., LTD.,
Wembley House, Railway Square, Sydney.
COUNTRY AND INTERSTATE AGENTS WANTED.
Enjoy Life.
Feel fit in the evening in spite
of strenuous work all-day.
T aW
sanatocen
The True Tonic Food.
Our Service Department
This page is set apart for the service of Bulletin readers.
If you want anything, including information, you are invited to write to the
Service Department.
. . r Flie service is entirely free. All you have to do is to attach the coupon from the
inside back cover of last Bulletin to hand.
Readers obliging with replies need not attach coupons.
The right of selection and rejection is reserved. .
To facilitate search it is desirable that questions be asked on only one subject at
a tune.
Wants.
Position on N.S.W. or Queensland station
as engineer, first-class motor mechanic, shear-
ing-machine expert, pump-windmills, engines;
slight knowledge of sheep.—lo 97.
Young man, 22, requires work motor
driving in Sydney or suburbs. Six years
last job. Hard worker. —1113.
Elderly gentleman would take another as
permanent paying-guest, quiet home, good
fishing and golf, N.-W. Coast, Tasmania.
£3 3s. week. —1114.
Position as station book- or store-keeper
in N.S.W., 12 years’ experience, 9 years
present position. Available end September.
—1153.
Young lady, high-speed stenographer anil
typist, commercial, legal, insurance and real-
estate experience, open for evening engage-
ment in Sydney ; terms moderate. —1150.
Sawmillers, engine-driver and.bench. All-
round men for small plant. N.-E. Victoria.
Conditions good, top wages and bonus. —1115.
A job, anything at all, urgently; reliable
conscientious young man, a real goer, go any-
where. Last position six years—general
hand in stores in N.Z. First-class refs. —-
1154.
To sell Queensland mineral specimens, all
varieties; also representative samples Char-
ters Towers mines, suitable for collectors or
school museums. (Replies to Box No. 1,
Mareeba, Queensland.)
Exchange mixed farm (dairy, banana, pas-
sion-fruit), 211 acres, best in N.S.W. North
Coast, splendid Guernsey herd and plant, for
city or suburban rent-producing property.
Existing loans can bo taken over. Value
about £12.000.-115:1.
copies of (1) “An Idle Woman in Cor-
sica,” (2) “Night Lights,” (3) “The County
Road”; any condition. (Replies direct to
C. M. Nesbitt, Portarlingtqn, Vic.)
To rent shop, country centre, where I can
build up a business repairing motor vehicles,
tractors and pumping machinery, and doing
general smith work. Queensland preferred.
—1125.
Copies of Australian Journal, early
this year, containing stories “Glamor” and
“One Night in Summer.” —1100.
Name and address of a young man living
on a ranch in Australia who would corre-
spond with a young girl now of the U.S.A.
but anxious to make a home in Australia. —
1099.
To correspond with person, either sex,
literary and musical tastes, back-country
W.A.—1096.
Hull’s “Stamps of N.S.W.” and Hull’s
“Stamps of Tasmania.” New or second-
hand. —1134.
Whereabouts of relatives of the late Jere-
miah Shea Campbell, born Grassy Gully
(Vic.), 1863. Died 1915. Had three
brothers, Archie, Jack and Bill (believed
to be dead), and one sister. Janet (Mrs.
Simpson). (Replies direct to Mrs. E. O’Con-
nor, Hotel Cecil, Casino, N.S.W.)
Like to get into touch with anyone in-
terested in autographs. I have a number
of letters and documents, including auto-
graph letters of Ouida, Pius X., George IV.,
Victoria, . Irving, Queen Anne, Newman,
Manning. Gladstone, Palmerston, Labouchere.
Would sell.—lll7.
Sell “Phil May in Australia” (1904).*
De luxe edition. —1087.
To sell artistic bungalow, Lane Cove
(Sydney), 5r., near train, tram and ’bus,
25 miu. from city; sewered, electric light,
gas.—loBB.
Any speculator like to look into three
inventions? (Replies to D. Bonaba, The
Studio, Cooma, N.S.W.)
Whereabouts of old A.I.F. mate, Corporal
Russen ; enlisted from the Islands and may
have returned there. (Replies direct to Jack
Holmes, Young-street, Sea Cliff, S.A.)
Information Sought.
A friend in Sydney is in receipt of an
invalid pension, 40s. per fortnight. Lately
he got a motor-driver’s license. Does this
imperil his pension? —llo9.
The Invalid and Old Age Pensions Act
provides for the grant of invalid pensions
only to persons who are permanently and
totally incapacitated for any work. Should
the person take up the occupation of a taxi-
driver or chauffeur his pension would in-
stantly be cancelled; but no action would bo
taken until he did so, irrespective of the fact
that he held a license.
I would like to take an orphan girl from
an institution into my home (N.S.W.). llow
do I go about it? —lioB.
Forward application (form posted) to the
Secretary, Child Welfare Department, Box
18a, G.F.0., Sydney. An inspector will then
visit your homo to report upon its suitability,
etc. Such children must be provided with
proper accommodation, food and clothing,
and in. the case of girls paid the following
schedule rate of wages: 14-15 years, 15s. 2d.
per month (Is. 6d. per week pocket-money) ;
15-16, 19s. 6d. (25.) ; 16-17, £1 6s. (35.) ;
17-18, £1 10s. 4d. (3s. 6d.).
(1) Has the Duke of York an impedi-
ment in his speech? (2) lloio many times
icas the Duke of Edinburgh in Australia? —
1068.
(1) Yes; the impediment is decided, but
is overcome by very careful diction, which
makes his broadcast speech clearer than that
of many another person without the handi-
cap. (2) Only once.
With the advent of the new record which
wilt play for 20 minutes or more, will it
be possible to convert the ordinary gramo-
phone to its use? —1030.
It is possible to convert your phonograph
by installing a triple spring motor and using
a specially-made diamond-point speaker; but
ns the result would not be equal to that
obtained by the Edison phonograph we
would not advise the alteration. Estimated
cost of alteration, £lO.
My White Leghorns have diarrhoea and
do not eat. / gave castor-oil to one; she
died nearly at once. They are very weak.
I notice something in crop which 1 cannot
account for. There are throat noises, too.
—1022.
It may be (1) Obstruction in the crop,
in which oasd the crop would be distended.
(2) Salt poisoning, which could be caused
by the birds eating some grains of coarse
salt, or lumps of salt in the mash (salt is
necessary in the food, but must be dissolved).
Or (3) fowl-tick. In the first two cases
the main thing is to remove the cause and
then treat with castor-oil and chlorodyne,
giving only soft food. The throat noises
may be due to canker in the windpipe. This
should be removed. (Pamphlets containing
instructions, etc., posted.)
(a) If a youth is married under age, but
has obtained'■ his parents’ consent and is un-
able to support the wife for some time, can
the wife hare the marriage annulled? (b)
If so, at what cost? (c) If the wife is sup-
porting herself temporarily, can the husband
still have claim, on her? —loB9.
(a and b) No; but any husband who leaves
his wife without means of support may be
summoned to a Court of Petty Sessions to
show cause why he should not support her,
and the Court may make an order requiring
him to pay what it deems sufficient for her
maintenance, having regard to all the circum-
stances. (c) The husband can claim the
rights given to him by marriage.
What arc the rights of the prof, shares in
Zinc Corporation, in respect to dividend and
capital? —lo26.
(1) To a cumulative pref. div. of 20 p.c.
per annum. (2) To share in surplus profits
remaining rateably in proportion to capital
paid up on all shares. (Ordinary shares to be
deemed to be £1 shares.) (3) On a winding-
up assets available (a) to pay holders arrears
(if any) of the cum. pref. dividend; (b)
to repay holders the amount paid on such
shares; (c) to repay ordinaries the amount
paid up on such shares (such shares to
be deemed to be £1 shares) ; (d) the residue
(if any) of the assets to be divided among
pref. and ord. shares, rateably in proportion
to the nominal amount of capital. (Ordinary
shares to be deemed to be £1 shares.)
A farmhand (N.S.W.), whilst ploughing,
gets a, paralytic stroke. He does not fall
from his seat and receive injuries, but has
to be taken to a hospital for medical treat-
ment. Is he entitled, under the Workmen’s
Compensation Act, to any benefit? —1076.
The farmhand is only entitled to com-
pensation if he has medical and other evi-
dence to show that the paralytic stroke is
“attributable to his work” or his work “w r as
a contributing factor.” It seems very doubt-
ful whether an application of this nature
would he successful.
Some of my sheep have died recently.
Symptoms: They become very stiff in all
legs and cannot eat, but linger on for days
and apparently die of starvation. The stiff-
ness generally follows cuts, but I hare known
them to develop it when all cuts should be
healed. What treatment should 1 give? —
1036.
Undoubtedly suffering from tetanus. Pre-
vention should be aimed at by disinfecting
knives before use; and the tailing and mark-
ing of sheep should be carried out in tem-
porarily-erected pens on new ground. Tetanus
can be prevented but not cured.
Is it best to leave lambs without dressing
when tailed, or what? —1002.
Stock and Brands Branch, N.S.W. Dept,
of Agriculture, advises Stockholm tar and
kero, or a mixture of Milestone, 6oz. to a
gallon of water.
(1) The top-dressing needed for lucerne-
growing and the quantity? (2) How can
I rid newly-rung country of bla-dy-grass?
(3) What quantity of soil would be needed
for an analysis and where could I yet it
done? —S7B.
(1) N.S.W. Dept, of Agriculture experts
recommend superphosphate, 2cwt. per acre,
applied during .Tilly or early August. (See
pamphlet posted.) (2) If the area can be
ploughed, the sowing of grasses and clovers
may check tlic grass. (3) It is not now the
practice of the Department to make analyses
to determine the suitability of soil for crops.
It lias been found that the only satisfactory
plan is expert examination coupled with
information derived from field tests. (The
1 (epartment in this case has asked the Agri-
cultural Instructor at Grafton to get into
touch with the correspondent, investigate
and advise.)
Is there a cure for scours in young calves
about nine months old? —1001.
Probably dietetic, in which case the calves
should receive a drench of 6oz. castor oil
and be provided with a good lick such as
sulphate of iron 1 part, bone meal 5 parts,
Liverpool salt 30 parts.
Where can I obtain a treatment for
asthma made by a Dr. Tucker? —llo2.
Modern science has found that asthma is
caused by the presence of proteins. Things
as different as eggs, the fur of animals and
the pollen of wheat will cause asthma in
the individual subject. The duty of the
specialist is to find out the particular pro-
tein that is the cause of the particular
patient's asthma. That being done, the
patient has only to keep away from that pro-
toil), and the complaint disappears. Any
doctor can give you a prescription to deal
with the individual attacks, but no one has
yet discovered a drug to cure the disease.
Go to a chest specialist and ask him if he
can discover the cause of your asthma. If
that doesn’t succeed we’ll hunt lip Dr.
Tucker for you.
When a life policy was taken out the age
was given as 32; it should have turn 33.
Will the office adjust payments? —ll4l.
—ll4l.
Yes; because the premiums would have
been slightly larger had the correct age been
given. If the claim has not actually arisen
the office will no doubt allow you to make
up the amount thus far short paid.
An employer sells goods to an employee.
Can the employer sue for the value? —1140.
The N.S.W. Truck Act (1900) provides for
the payment of all wages in money and makes
it an offence to pay them partly in money and
partly in goods; but there is nothing to pre-
vent an employee of his own free-will and in
the ordinary course ol: business purchasing
goods from his employer, who may recover
payment from him as in the case of an ordi-
nary customer. But he must not set off the
debt against future wages.
llow do I take out a trade-mark and
name? Cost? —1107.
Apply Registrar of Trade-Marks, Dept, of
Patents —in your case at the G.P.O. Build-
ings, Perth. Fee on application, £1; fee on
registration, £2.
Information Supplied.
636. —To stop a kero, tin from rusting,
paint it with boiled linseed oil (before any
rust specks have started) and bake in a
slow oven or hang before a fair fire until
the coating of oil becomes a good light-
brown color. The oil must be put on lightly,
otherwise. when the heat is applied it will
run and accumulate on the bottom, where it
will flake. By the way, a coating of linseed
oil applied to the exhaust pipe of a new
Liz will keep it from rusting; the heat
oxidises the oil. —Sturg.
780. —The male papaw (not paw-paw)
tree is not barren; the panicles hear a small
but luscious fruit. In the Queensland
Government Bureau in Kembla Building,
Sydney, there are samples >f preserves made
from tliese and other Queensland tropical
fruits. —P..J.N.
973. —In poisoning foxes I have had un-
limited success with the following method.
Take a lamb, cut it open and roast sufficiently
to cause a good trail smell. Tie a rope about
its middle and drag it round the lambing
camp or site necessary to be protected.
At every quarter-mile drop a piece ot liver
doctored with strychnine, taking care not
to have handled liver or poison, and coier
the baits with bark to prevent the crows
getting them. —E.J.C. ,
475.—1. too, have taken a confectionery
course with a co. which held out the bait
of unlimited orders. The orders are still
being awaited. —A.P.
973—1 have got as many as nine foxes
at one poisoning this way. With a long knife
and stick, but without handling, cut a sheep s
liver into inch squares and dose with strych-
nine. Attached to a rope drag a bag filled
with sheep’s pluck and entrails oyer the fox
haunts, dropping the baits at intervals.
W.R.
981. —To stop the leak in an underground
tank. Pump the remaining water out of the
tank, or, at any rate, well below the crack.
With a brick chisel or drill, open and deepen
the crack to about an inch wide and two or
three inches deep. Give the crevice a good
wash out and refill with two of clean fine
sand to one of cement. —W.R.
981.—T0 stop a crack in a cemented brick
tank, use Elaterite waterproofing paint; it
is good for iron tanks, too. The material
is applied straight from the can, without
heating; 17s. 6d. per gal. f.0.b.. Sydney.
Let the Elaterite thoroughly dry before water
covers the painted portion.—L.A.C.
641. —The inquirer who wished to know
how to get rid of wood slaters should buy
some sheep-dip. dilute it, then spray into tile
ventilator openings. As wood slaters thrive
in damp places, under wood, bark, etc., give
such places round the house a good spraying
also. —M.L.F.
973. —To poison foxes. (1) Into one jam-
tin of blood shake the top of a wax-match
box of strychnine crystals. The blood must
be caught when killing. Do not stir; the
acid in the blood will dissolve the crystals.
Draw a trail: a sheep’s paunch is good. (Keep
off the trail.) Make a small hole with the
point of an old spoon and drop the bait in
(a small piece on the point of the spoon
will do) about 10 or 12 yards apart. Blood
must be caught hot and poison put in
quickly. The best _ way is to have boiling
water in the jam-tin, and throAV it out as
the beast’s throat is cut. (2) Secure a
bullock or ram’s horn, mix strychnine with
fat and fill horn. Bore hole in end of horn,
and put piece of wire through and fasten.
Draw trail. Handle as little as possible
J.M.B.
Does Anybody Know?
The meaning of the abo. icord woorageef
—879.
Are there any universal signs by which a
person lost in virgin bush on a cloudy day,
no stars or sun being visible, may determine
any given direction, say, due north? —Gl2.
The meaning of the abo. word “nangeela” *
—1079.
Brief Answers.
L.G.S.: For a pure gamble, yes. You'll
probably lose, but you may make a punch. . ..J.E.8.:
Burley Griffin, 35 Bligh-street, Sydney B.B.:
“Banjo" Paterson, care of the Sportsmax, 112 King-
street, Sydney.. ..R.8.: Safest to sue him for the
debt; if payment is not then made, the car could be
taken in execution... .G.A.R.: Probably too late to
draw out, anyway. As it’s a limited liability co„
you’re liable for the face value of the share
Anxious: Sorry, don’t know. It’s a pure gamble
N.C.: “Heart’s Desire,” obtainable (2s. 7d.) ar
Paling’s, Sydney. .. .A.M.M.: On the case stated, each
is liable to the other: A for commission and B for
material. If A claims against B, then B should set
off the amount due to him for commission and pay
the balance, if any, into court. Or, if B took action,
A could set off B’s indebtedness to him... .E.E.8.:
Australian Mercantile, Land and Finance Co., Callo
Cangallo 315, Buenos Ayi-es, Argentine; Jolly and Co.,
Capetown, S’Africa; Findlay, Hayes and Co., Durban,
S’ Africa... .J.V.S.: Motor Tractors, Ltd., Winehcombe
House, Bridge-street, Sydney; Lynas Motors, Perth,
\V. A L.P.: Jonathan Cape, 30 Bedford-square,
London, W.C.I; Alfred A. Knopf, 730 Fifth Avenue,
New Yoi k.... W.P.T.: (1) Bega foundered April 5,
1908. (2) Navigation Department records don’t dis-
close such a ship A.11.J.: Don’t recommend it;
they have made too many mistakes.... Francis F.:
(1) Haven’t sufficient data at present. (2) Not if you
are not prepared to wait without a div. for years.
And you might have a difficulty in realising if you
wanted money.... E. 5.1.: Lindsay Gordon visited
W.A. for a few months in 1866 in connection with
some land he owned there; whether he wrote any
verse whilst there is not recorded.... V.H.L.; Par-
ticulars and forms from Secretary, Air Board.
Victoria Barracks, Melbourne... .F.S.: “How to Play
Five Hundred” (9d.), Bear’s, 67 Market-street,
Sydney; or “Hoyle’s Book of Games” (2s. 6d.),
Angus and Robertson, Castlereagh-street, Sydney:
.Regular R. : Longman’s Junior School Arithmetic,
Angus and Robertson’s, Castlereagh-street, Sydney;
3g. 6d John F.: “Complete Jam Cupboard,” by
Mrs. C. F. Loyell (25.), Angus and Robertson, Sydney.
.... (Many others mailed.)


f
\
i
V
/9
Impurities in lead and lead oxides
shorten the life of any storage
battery. Willard standards for
lead and lead oxides are by far
the most rigid in the industry.
that’s
Quality
STORAGE
BATTERY
AUSTRALIAN GENERAL ELECTRIC CO., LTD.
68 Wentworth Avenue, Sydney.
AUSTRALIAN GENERAL ELECTRIC CO., LTD.,
482 Elizabeth Street, Melbourne.
MOTOR SUPPLIES, LTD., Brisbane


For the Big Wheat Grower
1
'WliPi
BTJ:; *Tai
ISIS
•■ *r>
1
Sfl&W
is
■>'; iTA/
, .
a
,
&f)e
SUNSHINE
AUTO-
HEADER
Four to five acres per hour.
One bag or more per minute.
One man to drive, another to
move the hags.
No Team.
No Tractor.
H. V. McKAY PTY., LTD.,
SUNSHINE HARVESTER WORKS, SUNSHINE
FOR PARTICULARS, WRITE TO:
Stanley Street, SOUTH BRISBANE. 664 Bourke Street West, MELBOURNE.
27-39 George Street West, SYDNEY. 102-105 North Terrace, ADELAIDE.
Cor. King & Murray Streets, PERTH.
r
READ the daily newspaper reports of fires that were not
expected, and beware of your own security!
Even as children and mice play with matches and start
fires, so are electric wires prone to short-circuit. Spontaneous
combustion constantly ignores “Eo Smoking” regulations.
Fireproof buildings may not burn, but their contents will!
And always, the God of Chance, with a sly wink at the Over-
Confident Man, seems waiting, eagerly, to take a whack at
any fellow who has had a little too long run of luck.
You can never tell how or when or where a fire will start.
Your reputation for being careful won’t put out a fire. In
an emergency you might better be ready with enough first-
aid appliances, carefully selected for your kind of hazards
and properly installed.
Be prepared—your turn may come next!
Foamite Fire Protection
A Complete Engineering Service
Against Fire.
Send for Free Booklet, “Extinguishing Oil and Other Fires ”
BELDAM PACKING AGENCY (AUSTRALIA), LTD.,
37 Sussex Street, Sydney.
ATKINS (W.A.), LTD.,
894 Hay Street, Perth.
GEORGL DOWNER & CO.,
Henty House, 499 Little Collins Street, Melbourne.
MATTHEWS FIRE ALARM, LTD.,
City Buildings, Edward Street, Brisbane, Q.
CLAUDE H. SMITH 6c CO.,
189 Gawler Place, Adelaide, S.A.


Firearms Sent C.O.D ,
THE 1927
22-CAL.
WONDER
RIFLE.
The Walther. It is a single-shot, a
repeater and an automatic all in one;
bolt action, magazine holds 5 long-rifle
cartridges (10-shot magazines, 7/6
extra), 25in. barrel, weight 6slb. Price
£6/12/6 Post Free. The same rifle
fitted with Zeiss Telescopic Sight, £l4.
2Hn. groups at 100 yards.
Write for Illustrated Catalogue.
SIL ROHU (Late A.1.F.),
Gunsmith and Importer of High-grade
Firearms,
110 b Bathurst Street, Sydney.
’Phone: City 2590.
AUSTRALIA'S BEST.
RESCH’S
LAGER, DINNER ALE,
PILSENER & STOUT.
RESCH’S BITTER ALE,
AUSTRALIA'S BEST BITTER.
Western Australian Distributors:
BURNS, PHILP & CO., LTD., PERTH AND GERALDTON.
HARVEY’S “SPECIAL” Whisky
MELLOWED BY AGE ALONE.
Sole Agents: RESCH’S, LTD., Redfern, Sydney. If
V>hQ
W. W. GREENER
"EMPIRE”
Hammerless Gun
Obtainable from all Retailers.
Price £2l.
Wholesale Representatives:
W. P. THOMPSON g CO. PTY., LTD.
405-7 Lonsdale Street,
Melbourne.
SPORTING
NOTIONS
Under the Whip
The forty-sixth Australian Hurdle race,
run at Camfield last Saturday, provided the
most dramatic conclusion in the history of
the event. When Arcadius turned for home,
five lengths clear of the next horse, it looked
a million to one on him, and gloom w 7 as
written on the McShortodds countenance.
But exultant shouts of “The fa.vorite! The
favorite wins!” changed to a dismayed roar
of “He’s down!” Taking off too far from
the last hurdle, Arcadius struck it heavily
and dislodged the jockey. Wraight made a
great attempt to stick to the saddle, but it
was no good; and he had the mortification
of seeing his riderless steed continue on its
journey, to finish second to an animal that
was well beaten till Arcadius made that one
disastrous blunder.
There were 18 starters, and Arcadius was
always favorite on the course; his closing
price Avas 9 to 2. Roisel, Pildin and Lady
Hooka (backed from tens) were 7 to 1,
Rearguard 8 to 1, Seafit and Mowamba 12
to 1, Telarno 14 to 1 and the others from 20
to 100 to 1. Mnew 7 eed (33 to 1) was in front
at the first hurdle from Seafit, Perchance,
Rearguard, Blarwyn and Arcadius. Another
outsider in Solalight (100 to 1) joined
Mneweed, and they raced at the head of the
procession till the field entered the railway
stretch, wffiere Arcadius jumped to the
lead. As they passed the stand the second
time the favorite was two lengths clear of
the field, with Wesloein, Rearguard, Per-
chance, Lady Rooka, Seafit and Blarwyn
most prominent of the others. Lady Rooka,
who had made several bad jumps, ran up to
Arcadius at the half-mile, where the only
others with chances were Perchance, Rear-
guard, Seafit and Perpetual. A little further
on Wraight gave the favorite his head, and
lie was making the field look cheap when
he came to that ill-starred jump—it was the
only time lie touched timber during the long
journey. With Arcadius out of it, Per-
chance (20 to 1) was left in the lead, but
Seafit outstayed the tiring Perambulator
gelding and beat him home by two lengths
and a half. Pildin, plugging on, Avas
six lengths away third. Rearguard was
fourth and old Roisel, who never looked to
have a hope, came home very weary in sixth
place.
The lucky winner, who carried 9st.
101 b., is an aged gelding by Sea Prince-
Competence. He is owned by G. H. Alford
and trained by L. Duff, having changed
hands since his last start. Previous to Satur-
day his Melbourne record was in no way
brilliant; a couple of minor successes “down
the line,” when he first came from Mt.
Gambier, were his best achievements. E.
Webster rode him. Thanks chiefly to Arca-
dius, the for the Si miles and 20 yards,
Omin. 12|sec., was the fastest yet recorded.
For steeplechasers there was a race over
the jumps and one on the flat. In the latter
there was big money for Formible and Repar-
ation, and they finished up at 4 to 1,
Epergne and Ancient Mariner being a point,
and Derision two points, longer. Taking
charge three furlongs from home, Formible
was not afterwards headed, though Ancient
Mariner made a game attempt to cut. him
down ; Derision was third. Nyangay (7 to
4) put up a slashing performance in the
steeplechase; going to the front soon after
the start, the Grand National winner jumped
perfectly and won in a canter from Mt.
Cooper (20 to 1) and Glentronie (5 to 1).
Frank Leonard rode him. Mt. Cooper is the
S. Aus. horse that divided first place with
Fnohoo in the Onkaparinga Steeple.
A plunge on Sol Green’s imported mare
Gallantry in the Crimea Trial, nine furlongs,
brought her to 3 to 1. She ran pretty well,
but nothing had a chance with Bonnie Bob
(8 to 1), who led all the way; Spearlight
(33 to 1) and Kimball (16 to 1) were his
nearest pursuers. Daniels rode the winner,
who was unlucky to lose a race on protest at
Moonee Valley a few 7 weeks ago. The Mala-
kott Stakes, another nine-furlong affair, gave
the crowd an opportunity for further lung
exercise. Affirm (10 to 1), who had finished
unplaced in a poor field at Moonee Valley the
previous Saturday, after having been backed
down to 7 to 4, on this occasion trailed the
pace-making Llanthony (15 to 1) and, get-
ting the better of him inside the distance,
won comfortably by about a length, the
A TINNED-MEAT TIP.
LOLLOPER: “I’m going to race at Epping to-morrow night.”
WALLOPER: “Take a tin-opener with you, then — it’s one of those canned affairs.”
improved Patroclus (7 to 1) being 3|
lengths behind the old Land of Song gelding.
Then there was lusty hooting. An inquiry
was held by the stewards, but everything
was declared to be in order. The Banker,
Comus, Piastoon, Don Moon and Spear
Maiden started in this event, but were not
seriously inquired for in the betting.
“Tich” Wilson’s mount, Cocklaw (4 to
1), was favorite for the Mornington Welter,
but A. G. Barlow’s imported horse Phonic
(5 to 1) had a very easy task, as it proved;
unlucky Diamond Plume (8 to 1) and Cock-
law were in the minor places. Phonic, who
won a similar event at the last meeting at
Caulfield, is in great heart, and it is doubt-
ful whether the handicappers have yet got
his measure.
* * * *
Clan Robert has 12st. 11 lb. in next Satur-
day’s Australian Steeple. So far it hasn’t
been a top-weights’ year; in any case Nor-
man Falkiner’s big horse is set a formidable
task in being asked to give Nyangay 251 b.
Epergne (lOst. 131 b.) and Mt. Cooper
(lOst. 71b.) ought tt> see the distance out, and
Derision (lOst. 41b.) is to be respected.
Nyangay, however, should win ; Mt. Cooper
is here placed second and Derision third.
Lady Thurza, a four-year-old daughter of
imported Eudorus —Thurza, is clearly a
smart sprinter. Greenie (9 to 4) was pre-
ferred to her in the Denham Court Handicap
at Warwick Farm on Saturday, Lady
Thurza being at 4 to 1; and at three fur-
longs the Greenstead mare looked like com-
ing home alone. But she stopped, as she
has done in Melbourne when heavily
backed, and Lady Thurza accounted for her
comfortably, Cadenza (7 to 1) breaking even
with Greenie in the last few strides. Rion-
scup, a French horse, finished strongly in
fourth place; Titanic, the very expensive
Sea Prince —Crosslike gelding, whipped in
the field. Ardennes (9 to 4) gave an in-
glorious exhibition in the Guildford Handi-
cap for a half-sister to Windbag. It was
thought that she would stay a mile; but
the squibby little grey (she is a daughter
of Chrysolaus, who has sired nothing in his
own class) blew out at six furlongs and
finished a bad last; Holbrook Belle (10 to
9 on) beat the other two, Flinders and The
Stork, in hollow fashion.
Valais was represented by two winners—
Valparaiso (7 to 1) in the August Handicap,
10 furlongs, and King Val (14 to 1) in the
F,denser Park Handicap, seven furlongs,
Valparaiso was an unknown quantity at the
distance, but it was in the last furlong that
he showed superiority to Prince Colugo and
Mak Siccar (7 to 1 also) and the rest. He
is far from being the clinker his brother Fuji
San is, but he is a useful sort. Though
the good-looking King Val had been success-
ful at the previous Warwick Farm meeting,
eight horses were at shorter odds. Bunting
Wallace (7 to 1) made a good race of it
with him, and many thought “Baron’s” cast-
off unfortunate to be beaten by a head, but
King Val likewise had a pretty rough pas-
sage. After a rousing finish in the Farm
Stakes, 10 furlongs, the judge put up the
numbers of Laird o’ Cockpen (7 to 2) and
Mytilini (12 to 1) together. A run-off was
demanded by the Laird o’ Cockpen people,
and punters laid 5 to 2 on the unlucky little
chestnut, only to see the country mare—she
is a daughter of Eye Glass and has inherited
all that good little horse’s gqmeness —defeat
him by a length. For this the Mytilini
crowd had largely to thank the Westralian
jockey Percival, who set a slow pace that
suited the mare, and didn’t suit the gelding
—a plug—and stole a decisive lead (quite
outwitting McCarten) coming into . the
straight. The Perth horseman was also on
Lady Thurza and Prince Colugo. He will
get any amount of riding if he stays in
Sydney.
❖ # ❖ :js
For Moorefield on Saturday:—
Flying Handicap: Reference, 1; Lady
Thurza, 2.
Moorefield Handicap: Prince Colugo, 1,
Kalloni, 2 ; Auction, 8.
Kogarah Stakes: Air Lady, 1; Little Coon,
2.
Carlton Mile: Stoneykirk, 1; Zuleika, 2 ;
Onward, 3.
M.Q. (and Rafferty) Rules
“Tiger” Cline, the latest Snowy Baker
selection in America, made his Australian
debut at Rushcutter Bay on Saturday night:
judged on his performance, “Tabby” would
have been a more apposite prefix. Said to
be of Greek extraction, he hails from San
Francisco, and scaled list. 91b. against the
12st. 71b. of "Sunny” Jim Williams.
The latter had Cline’s measure from first
to last, and received the verdict at the end
of the fifteenth round. He might have got it
earlier had he been a few pounds lighter.
C'iine opened tamely and Williams won the
first round entirely untouched; at the end of
the second Cline’s face was cut and bleeding.
The white essayed flurries of short swings
at the body, but merely belted Jim’s elbows
and occasionally his biceps, whereat a wan
smile played over the coon’s face. Cline
looked a beaten man by the sixth round, but
he was at least showing capacity to assimi-
late punishment. His left eye was all but
closed by the eleventh, and Williams had
landed some tremendous rights on the side
of his head. But the Greek came up for
more, and was liberally accommodated. A
section of the crowd, hostile throughout to
the negro, hooted the decision, but there
was really no arguing against it.
* ❖
“Caleb Conk”: Jack Munro is giving up
his job as manager of the Rushcutter Bay
Stadium, with its useful emolument of
£1000 a year. He is a shareholder in Tin
Hares, Ltd., and that probably had a lot to
do with the wrench, especially as the tiri-
liare people are extending their operations.
Pat McHugh, who has made a success of
his Leichhardt Stadium, is to succeed J ack:
the Balmain-road hall will be absorbed by
the parent institution, and McHugh will con-
trol both. His Stadium engagement is for
10 years at £1500 a year, but it is doubtful
whether he will be as comfortable in the
immediate future as lie was when running
his prosperous little show at Leichhardt,
unless greyhound-racing slumps.
*> *
The latest wrestling “champion” to strike
Melbourne is John Kilonis, a Greek; his
main claims to distinction, as far as could
be judged from his exhibition against Ted
Thye on Saturday night, are a perfectly-timed
right cross, a total disregard of the referee,
and eloquent cauliflower ears. When John
gets annoyed he simply swings with both
fists. Early in tin; first spasm he connected
with a solid uppercut outside the ropes and
followed it up with some hefty jabs to the
face inside the ring, but in a melee on the
ropes Ted had the better of the exchanges.
In the second round the Yank slipped on
a body scissors and face bar, and was bashed
on the nose. In the third the exuberant
Hellene was cautioned repeatedly. In the
sixth Bridges completely lost control; lie
signalled “time off” and retired to a neutral
cornei-. The Greek blazed into another fury
on discovering that Thye had been awarded
a penalty fall. Within 21 seconds of the
resumption he had secured the Boston crab
hold (of which he is reputed to be the origi-
nator) and forced the Oregon man to submit
The latter, already spent from the severe
buffeting, was receiver-general in the last
round. The decision was in favor of the
Greek (he greeted it by punching Thye in
the mouth) : but the fellow should have been
disqualified long before the final bell for his
barbarous display. Kilonis. at 12st. 71b.,
was lib. lighter than the Yank.
Footbrawl
The only League match that counted in
Melbourne on Saturday was between Gee-
long and Carlton on the latter’s oval. There
27,000 spectators saw a great game, the high
marking and kicking being exceptionally fine.
The seasiders had the better system; the
spasmodic dashes of the Old Blues took so
much out of them that their tiredness to-
wards the end was obvious. Geelong won
by 98 points to Carlton’s 66. Melbourne,
which has acquired the habit of winning at
home and getting donkey-licked away, stepped
up into fourth place by trouncing Essendon,
140 to 50. Collrngwood galloped over South
Melbourne, 122 to 48; the Richmond Tigers
outed Footscray, 81 to 50; Fitzroy found
St. Kilda too good on the day—St. K. 89.
’Roy 82; and Hawthorn, after toiling in the
rear through three quarters and starting tint
last 8 goals to the bad. put up a fierce do-or-
die dash and ran out winners over North
Melbourne, 99 to 76. It was Hawthorn's
first victory this season. During the week
the Metrop. Amateur Ass. reached for its
well-worn axe and brought it down on the
head of Hampton’s centre, who was also the
club’s secretary. Already under suspension
till the end of ’28, this hasty youth handed
a few dirty lefts to an opposing official, so
the Ass. rulers disqualified him for life.
* * « *
The Japanese footballers will be in Mel-
bourne for the “carnival,” but they arc not
going to play Australian rules. They are to
meet a Vic. Rugby Union side on Saturday.
They will open at Sydney Showground on
Saturday week, and will play three more
games, including one against Sydney Uni-
versity, before moving on to appear at New-
castle (N.S.W.) on Aug. 27. One of the
Sydney dates is still blank; and there is
talk of pitting the visitors against St.
Joseph’s College. It would be an exception-
ally interesting match.
1 Con limit'd on page J/1.)
HOW MULLIGAN HOLED IN ONE.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
If you happen to be at the I’ymble links
At the nour when the setting sun
In a blaze of dazzling glory sinks
Till the “second” and "fifth” men shun.
You may hear, as each score at the nine-
teenth shrinks.
Hoav Mulligan holed in one.
Pat Mulligan didn’t belong to the place.
He played when the rest had gone,
With a crazy spoon that had lost its face
And an iron that scarcely shone
Ilis mashie, ’tis said, was a fair disgrace
For players to look upon.
It Avas there at the old first tee he stood.
As sure as I’m standing here ;
lie took his stance and lie took his wood
The same as he’d take a beer;
And he shouted "Fore!” as a golfer should
Though never a soul Avas near.
The ball shot off in. a whirling arc,
For he hadn’t just struck it true.
It knocked a lump off a stringy-hnrk
And off at a tangent flew.
It hit a fence and Aviuged a lark
And soared towards the blue.
And then it: rushed at a lofty pole
Which loomed against the sky.
Cannoned and circled towards the hole
As blithe as the birds that fly.
And came to earth with a little roll
On the side where the green was high.
Pat Mulligan hadn't had time to mark
The way that the ball had gone.
From the moment it met with the striagy-
bark
And ri ochetted on,
And he s arched for it till the skies grew
dark.
For it was his only one.
At last he looked •in the sunken tin
On the green he Avas playing for.
And there avus the ball; it had. trickled in
To heln Pat Mulligan’s score.
And Mulligan said, “'Tis a marvel, thin,
I nicer done that before.”
N.S.W.
WILL LANWSON.


N
\
If You Have
Any Injury
or Sore -
Heal It With
Acch*"!*
HAPPEN/
A, CCIDENTS will happen!—and mostly when least
expected. The hot oven door—the slip of a knife
or the tin-opener—children’s falls. All these are
proper occasions for using Zam-Buk to grow new skin!
Wash away any dirt or grit from
tiie wound and cover with a piece
of lint or clean rag which has been
smeared liberally with Zam-Buk.
Burns and scalds need covering up
quickly to exclude the air. Then
leave Nature and Zam-Buk to do
the rest. In the. case of bruises
and sprains, rub gently with
Zam-Buk.
Zam-Buk quickly soothes pain;
allays swelling and inflammation
and prevents the germs, present in
all wounds, from setting up fester-
mg or blood-poisoning. The
growth of new healthy skin pro-
ceeds apace, and the injury is
effectively and completely healed.
Zam-Buk is the ideal home first-
aid and skin remedy because
Zam-Buk means “safety first.”
Unlike ordinary ointments,
Zam-Buk is a highly refined balm
of herbal origin. It contains no
coarse mineral drug or rancid
animal fat to clog the pores or
corrode the skin.
BURNS & SCALDS.
“Whilst fixing- a red-hot shoe
to a horse’s hoof 1 severely
burnt my thigh. Applications
of Zam-Buk soon took out all
the heat and pain and purified
the burnt flesh. Within a week
Zam-Buk had healed the bad
place.” Mr. J. Hoad, Prospect
Terrace, Kelvin Grove, Q’land.
ULCERATED LEG.
“Through neglecting a knock,
a terrible ulcer formed on my
husband’s leg. He suffered fear-
fully night and day from burn-
ing irritation, but Zam-Buk
took out the pain and ’fire' im-
mediately it was applied. By
persistent use Zam-Buk healed
the leg perfectly.” Mrs. H.
Hunt, 626 Harris St., Sydney.
FREE TRIAL!
Have you had your Free Samples of
Xam-Buhßalm and Xam-Buk- iledi-
cinal Soap? Ij not, send name and address to Messrs. C. 1..
Fuljord (.*lms.), Ltd,, Sydney. Mention Bui.i.ktix 11/8/’27.
anvßuk
Obtainable of all chemists, 1/0 and 3/0.
Zam-Bilk Medicinal Soap, 1/- a tablet.
RECORD BREAK
100 CLAY BIRDS Consecutively
By Donald Mackintosh
in public af* Rockbank,Victoria,
CONDITIONS WIRE Birds thrown from aspringTrap.
mkmm Mgks,i}andar<f(forges efS3x //* shot Ziind> Cartridges.
SCORE
ELEY & KYNOCH
CARTRIDGES
All British
from Cap to Turnover
G
K
9
By Royal Warrant
HisMaitsty King George
s s
Injunction Granted!
On July 1 5 an order was made by Mr. Justice James restraining
a garage proprietor from infringing the trade-mark “CASTROL,”
and from passing off lubricating oil not of Wakefield’s manufacture as
lubricating oil of their manufacture. The order also was made restrain-
ing the defendant and his servants or agents from selling or offering
for sale as Wakefield’s manufacture any other description of motor
lubricating oil not of Wakefield’s manufacture. Costs also were
awarded against the defendant.
It is our policy always to protect our clients against the substitu-
tion of inferior lubricating oils for genuine “CASIROL.”
With this end in view we shall take it as a favor if motorists will
inform us of any persons whom they suspect of making such a substitu-
tion. By this means we shall be able to institute a thorough investigation
and make it impossible for the continuance of this means of exploiting
the "CASTROL” reputation to the detriment of the public.
It is well known to every motorist that "CASTROL” protects the
whole mechanical system of the motor and insures full engine capacity
and a long life of usefulness. On the contrary, inferior lubricating oils
reduce engine efficiency and bring about speedy destruction of all
moving parts.
m
MOTOR OIL
WAKEFIELD
The Premier Motor Oil
is the product of THE ONLY 100 PER CENT. BRITISH FIRM of
Lubrication Specialists, with branches throughout Australia, New
Zealand and the World.
OBTAINABLE FROM LEADING GARAGES.
C. C. WAKEFIELD & CO., Ltd.
The All-British Firm ,
Head Office for Australasia:
ATLAS BUILDINGS, 8 SPRING STREET, SYDNEY.
Branches in Ail Australian States and New Zealand.


TWO BANKS IN ONE
The General Banking Department opens current (cheque) accounts and
transacts every kind of Banking business associated with cheque accounts,
such as the accepting of fixed deposits at interest, the issue of drafts and
letters of credit; and the transaction of international business.
The Savings Bank Department provides a most efficient service for the
thrifty and for the people of smaller means, a service that includes interest-
bearing Savings accounts, the money-box and many banking facilities.
Both Departments will be found in every one of the Bank’s 87 Branches,
and in addition practically every Post Office in Australia is an agency of
the Savings Bank.
You can do business with either department, or both.
Open an account now with the . (
Comißonwealtb lank of Australia
(Guaranteed by the Commonwealth Government.)
lIQUEUR
The Whisky for Connoisseurs.
GRANTS
LIQUEUR
SCOTCH WHISKY.
Beautifully Clean, Soft and Mellow.
Footbrawl
(Continued from page 39.)
Competition football closed down in Adel-
aide for the inter-State “carnival” in Mel-
bourne with West Adelaide well ahead of
the other seven teams. West beat Port
Adelaide on Saturday by 11—7 to 9 —10.
Port, which was on top in the early part of
the season, now shares third place with
West Torrens; North Adelaide is second,
four points behind West Adelaide. North
whipped Glenelg on Saturday, whereas the
West Torrens boys were licked by South
Adelaide, which had previously played 14
matches and lost 13.
* * * *
“Hotham”: Next Saturday Sydney will be
able to get an idea of what high-class Aus-
tralian football really is, for Geelong and
Carlton are to meet on the Cricket Ground.
According to Victorian custom, a big crowd
of followers will accompany each club, so
local enthusiasts will not lack for a lead
in the correct style of barracking. Geelong
goes home to Melbourne after the match, but
Carlton remains to play a N.S.W. 18 the
following Saturday.
❖ * * *
South Sydney continues to cut its con-
quering swathe through the Sydney Rugby
League competition. At the Cricket Ground
on Saturday the premiers downed Western
Suburbs by 19 to 2, after finishing the first
half with two tries to a penalty goal. They
might have done even better had they given
the fagged inter-State travellers a spell and
stuck to their mostly reserve team of the
previous two Saturdays. Kadwell, South's
new full-back, again did excellently, especially
in getting his backs moving in attack. The
game was unwontedly friendly; only two
players were spoken to by the “ref.”
St. George again showed signs of pre-
mature decay; it scratched home by 9
points to 7 from Balmain, which is struggling
with University for the wooden spoon.
Balmain led most of the way, and should
have won. Glebe attained merit of a sort
by leading University home, 16 to 13; Uni.
scored 3 tries to 2 by the Reds, but 5 goals
by Ilickey saved the day for his side. Very
close, also, was the tussle between Eastern
Suburbs and North Sydney; East won by a
point—17 to 16. Here again the goal-kicker
came to the rescue. North scored 4 tries to
3. but Oxford came along with 4 goals and
North could only dig up two.
“Gate”: The Athletic News, the only
journal of standing in England which de-
votes much space to Rugby League football,
has given the N.S.W. League a delightfully
unconscious jar. Protesting against the
English body’s repudiation of that residential
agreement, the News remarks indignantly
that it is no wonder N.S.W. is considering
the cancellation of the English tour. That
body’s action is “a firm, dignified protest.”
The News lias slipped ; it was Maoriland
which cancelled its invitation to the English
League. N.S.W. and Queensland meekly
turned the other cheek and implored the re-
pudiators to be sure and not forget to come
out, as promised, and bring a good, strong
team which would draw a nice big gate—
a regular bedtime story finale, in fact.
it * * *
The Rugby Union premiership was nailed
beyond all doubt when University, on its
own oval, decisively beat Manly, 21 to 11.
Manly had previously given the students their
only licking of the season, and when the
scores were 11 —5 in its favor had dreams
of doing it again. In the second half, how-
ever, ’Varsity got the machine going, and
left the Villagers standing. Hingst was in
great form in the Uni. back division, as
was Rosenblum in the vanguard. Telford
was the best of a good Manly pack. Sling-
ing the ball about, and showing fine con-
dition, Y.M.C.A. lost Glebe-Balmain by
21 to 9. the G.-B.’s sadly missing their big
Waratab contingent. Randwick made a grate-
ful return to last year’s form by beating
North Sydney 14 to 9, the giant Westfield
playing cleverly on the wing. Eastern
Suburbs, with nearly all its original first-
graders out, had no chance with West, the
Blacks winning on their heads by 30 to 11.
The meeting of St. Joseph’s and Newington,
the unbeaten teams in the G. P. Schools’
competition, drew 9000 spectators to Hun-
ter’s Hill. “Joey’s,” exhibiting great dash
and tackling hard, put up a cricket score —
40 to 3.
* * * *
Soccer foundations rocked when Eastern
Suburbs knocked Balgownie out of the
Gardiner Cup tie by 3 goals to l l. Glades-
ville-Ryde maintained its lead in the Metro-
politan premiership by beating Pyrmont-
S. Sydney, 5 to 1.
' “Feng Shoot” : The innovation, for Sydney,
of electric-light Soccer failed to take tlm
populace by the wool last week. Only about
1500 yawning individuals attended the
Sports Ground to see China play a combined
Sydney side; the Chinese, who had pre-
viously had a gallop under the lamps in
Brisbane, won by 6 goals to 1. The Soccer
people consider the experiment worth con-
tinuing, but it is to be hoped they’ll repent
ere it is too late. Sydney already has all
the “bright lights” sport it can stand.
“Shrewsbury”: Any hope the Australian
Soccer authorities may have had of send-
ing a team to the Olympiad has been dashed
by the refusal of the Olympic Federation to
permit affiliation. The provision for pay-
ment of players is the stumbling block. Many
Australian Soccerites get cash rewards for
playing, especially in “big” matches, and
are thus outside the pale of amateurism as
defined by the Olympic Federation. Under
the weird laws of amateurism genuine ama-
teurs who play Soccer against and in com-
pany with professionals remain amateurs,
though in a Rugby League game they may
not. But, amateur or not, there are few, if
any, Australian Soccer players who could
make such a trip on the 55.-a-day allowance
permitted by the Olympic Federation. The
matter might have been got over by public
and private assistance, as in the case of the
Czecho-Slavs —all amateurs. The ill-advised
decision to adopt petty-scale professionalism
has blocked that.
Racquet and Bawl
“Lone Lancelot”: The old spirit of
chivalry toward the alleged weaker sex
seems to be one with the snows of yester-
day of, the skirts of the early 1900’s. This
is particularly noticeable in sport, and a
shocking example comes from Goulburn
(N.S.W.). Application was made to the
A LOST ART IN PHOTOGRAPHY.
When Dad played, the district club could always be relied upon to form itself into an
effective group.
Now it lines up like this.
local lawn-tennis association to wipe mixed
doubles off its programmes, on the ground
that they had resulted in marked deteriora-
tion of the standard of play in men’s
doubles and that the continual intrusion of
women on the courts made it difficult for
men to get proper practice. The association,
which is probably married, agreed that there
w r as some truth in the allegations, but hastily
declined to interfere. It meanly compro-
mised by requesting its court captain to see
that the girls were kept more in the back-
ground. So now that’s settled —I don’t
think.
* # * *
“Cut Shot”: Sydney tenhis players got a
mild surprise on Saturday wiien Jim Wil-
lard and Harry Hopman were beaten in the
preliminary games for the Sydney club cap-
taincy. Willard, who has been off his game
for some time, succumbed to M. J. Plomley
in a five-set go. Hopman has been playing
such splendid tennis of late that even a
rising youngster like C. Donohoe was not
expected to trouble him, but Donohoe won
in three straight sets. In an exhibition game
in Brisbane E. F. Moon also created a stir
by downing J. O. Anderson, 8-6, 2-6, 6-2.
Moon, who can fairly be called a David
among the, tennis Goliaths, since he has also
defeated Gerald Patterson on Gerald's native
heath, is said to have shown a remarkable
service and backhand.
The Nineteenth Hole
“Silas B. Jones”: The U.S. open golf
championship has been won by T. D. Armour,
an ex-amateur from Scotland, from Harry
Cooper, also British born—he hailed origin-
ally from London. The pair- tied with 301
for the four 18-hole rounds, and a play-off
was necessary. Those who finished down
the course included Bobby Jones, Sarazen.
Hagen, Havers and Ted Ray. The result
is another illustration of the fact that
the best of American professional golfers,
with one or two exceptions like Hagen and
Sarazen, are imported from despised Britain.
“Machete”: Brisbane’s best woman golfer
—she proved it in competition recently—
is a sister of Arthur Baynes, former Aus-
tralian sculling champion. Arthur gives
promise of becoming a first-class golfer
himself, but, has lately developed lameness
on the links, due to sculling strain on the
heel sinews, and will have to let up for
a bit. Arthur and Leila inherit their beat
for sport; Papa “Frankie” Baynes was a
fine sculler, a boxer of renown and an
inter-State Rugby Union rep.—he played for
Queensland against N.S.W. from 1882 to
1888 and against Stoddart’s Englishmen in
the latter year.
* ** He
“Hotham” : Bendigo had its crowded hour
of glorious golf when the Northern District
championship was fought out between Ivo
Whitton and N. E. Lockhart, Whitton
finishing 3-up on his opponent. Though he
did nothing out of the way in Sydney
recently, Whitton is now at his top; he will
be a strong candidate for this year’s open
championship, in which Len Nettleford is
expected to appear. The young Tasmanian
beat Ivo for the amateur title last year.
if. if :*« *
“Old Hickory”: There is sad news abroad
for the makers of Wooden golf clubs and
shafts. St. Andrews has raised its ban on
steel, and what the Royal and Ancient club
says goes throughout the English-speaking
world. Time was when professionals made
most of their money in the manufacture of
clubs and the replacing of broken wooden
shafts. Cunning artificers like old Tom
Morris drew customers from China to Peru ;
to be the proprietor of a Morris driver
was to be akin to him who owned a pair of
guns by Stephen Grant, who, like Tom,
is said to have inquired carefully into the
morals and antecedents of his clients before
consenting to “make” for them. The big
sporting-goods stores cut heavily into the
small maker; the unbreakable steel shaft
will about finish him. Still, there is at least
one private club-maker who hangs out his
sign in Sydney, and seems to do well, in
spite of the universal providers.
!i! * S' S'
“Divot” : Lon Nettlefold got on the cables
again last week; lie figured in the final of
the Swiss amateur championship, played at
St. Moritz, where skating, ski-ing and sleigh
ing are the winter sports, with golf and
tennis for the summer. Len was beaten over
36 holes, 5 up and 4, by E. Halley, of
New Jersey (U.S.A.). This event always
draws a big entry of high-class players from
Europe and America, so the Tasmanian's
performance must be rated as good.
“Baron v. M.”: I find it difficult to be-
lieve that story (B. 4/8/’27) about the frog
and the golf ball. What does a frog know
about golf anyway? It leaves him cold. Now
a dog! Take my late fox-terrier, Toodles.
It was her habit to accompany me to tlie
links, and if my ball was lost in the rough
to hunt it out by scent and sit by it till I
came. She would never find an opponent's
ball, probably because his scent was un-
known to her, and it was quite common for
them to be lost with, of course, a corres-
ponding advantage to me. Playing one day
with Crosscut Sawe, the eminent surgeon,
I thought Toodles seemed a bit distrait at
the fifteenth. We were both in the rough
and Toodles was sitting by my ball as we
came up. There was no sign of Crosscut
Sawe’s. After a. search and a few appro-
priate remarks, he dropped one, but lost tlie
hole, and as I was four up we adjourned to
the 19tli. To my dismay, Toodles suddenly
fell down in a fit and expired. Everyone
said “Poison,” and Sawe, then the best of fel-
lows, volunteered a post-mortem forthwith.
The opening of Toodles revealed 17 golf
balls in various stages of digestion. Nearest
the oesophagus, and evidently the latest arri-
val, was Sawe’s new six-spot Emperor Flier.
Sawe and the committee made a painful
scene about it, and after my resignation a
notice was posted banning the introduction
of dogs to the course on any pretext-even
blindness.
“Bunkered”: Ball-pinching is developing
into a regular profession among youngsters
of the type that ends up in the Children’s
Court. On courses where the “rough” is
thick enough to afford cover these urchins
hide in likely spots where a long-hit ball may
pitch, pounce on it and vanish. The other
day my dog smelt out two youthful pirates
who. armed with long hooked sticks, lay flat
on their stomachs under thick ti-tree bushes
at the edge of our fourteenth green. They
explained that they were picking wildflowers.
The cost of a ball is a consideration to most
present-day golfers; apart from that, there
is the penalty of a stroke which may lose the
victim the hole, and even the match. The
thing has ceased to be a joke.
Car and Cycle
“Chevroford": America has now gone to
the length of providing the motor hotel.
It has seven storeys and space for 250 guests.
A Rolls-Ford on arrival is respectfully
greeted by uniformed attendants and directed
to the lift. Accommodation may be rented
by the day, week or month, and no extra
charge is made for rooms with the best view.
Patrons are assured of politeness and prompt
attention, as well as a bath on Saturday
evening, for a small additional fee, and no
car is refused, provided it doesn’t come With
an unaccountable female companion and is
decently dressed.
* * *
“Porc-du-Chemin”: Something suitable for
scorchers is promised in the new main road
to be constructed from Wiseman’s Ferry to
Spencer, connecting, via the north bank of
the Ilawkesbury River, with the Newcastle-
Sydney road. There is already a track of
sorts, but the Main Roads Board plans a
highway 28 feet wide, with a 20-foot middle
strip of bitumen facing. The cost is reck-
oned at £100,000, and the making will take
two years. Running, as it will, through
some of the most beautiful scenery in Aus-
tralia, the road should be a big attraction
to week-enders. But probably the bitumen
facing will tempt a lot of them to speeds
that will leave no time to look at scenery.
(Continued on page J/2.)


The Royal Agricultural Society of Victoria.
Grand Annual Exhibition
NINE DAYS:
Thursday 15th to Saturday 24th September, 1927.
COMPREHENSIVE DISPLAY OF STOCK, AGRICULTURAL PRODUCE
AND INDUSTRIAL EXHIBITS.
SIXTY ACRES OF INTENSE INTEREST.
Liberal Programme of Prizes Amounting to Over £BOOO.
(Including Champion Prizes of Australia.)
Competitive Entries (except Ring Events) close Saturday at Noon, August 13,
Entries for Arena Events close Saturday at Noon, August 27.
Members’ Subscription, covering Badge and Two Ladies’ Tickets and General
Privileges, £l/10/- per annum.
Life Members’ Subscription, £ 15/15/-. Extra Ladies’ Tickets, 10/6 each.
PRIZE SCHEDULES, ENTRY FORMS, ETC., ON APPLICATION.
HENRY SCHVHEGER, Secretary.
.Vo te Address:— TEMPLE COURT (9th Floor), 422 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE.
Visitors to Brisbane!
HOTEL
Book up at the
CECIL
(FIRST CLASS)
Reasonable Tariff—Good Position.
ŗ
“CLYDE
BATTERIES”
For RADIO, MOTOR-CARS AND
COUNTRY HOME LIGHTING.
THE CLYDE ENGINEERING COMPANY, Ltd.,
Granville; and Goulburn Street, Sydney, N.S.W.
Car and Cycle
(Continued from page 41)
“Ball liiice”: Already N.S.W. amateur
and professional cyclists are getting in trim
for the two big annual handicap races, one
for each class, from Goulburn to Sydney.
The Dunlop people are providing cash and
trophies for the professionals to the extent
of £1S0, while amateur trophies and medals
will come to about the same sum. Both
races will be run on the same day, September
17. and this year, the main road being open
again, the distance will be reduced from the
Bio miles of last year to about 128. The
races will start at Goulburn post office, and
finish at the Broadway, Enfield. The winner
of the professional race will be the N.S.W.
representative in Australia's biggest road
event, the Warrnambool (Vic.) to Melbourne
race.
* * =:• *
“The Dodger" : I notice that a lot of cars
reported stolen in Sydney have been re-
covered by the police in good condition
shortly afterwards. I am wondering if Mc-
llaggison’s case applies. Mac. was a bit
absontminded about parking hours, and had
been filled a couple of times for leaving
Ids car over the appointed period. The other
day he rushed out of the pub, overdue as
usual, and saw two constables standing by
bis 'bus with notebooks at the “ready.”
He hopped on a tram to Oxford-street.,
and from there reported to the nearest
police-station that his ear had been
stolen from a. local parking place earlier
that morning. In due course the police re-
ported the recovery of the stolen car from
where McIIaggison had left it, and returned
it to him free of charge.
* * * *
“Tinliz” : In a few more weeks Lizzie will
go out of production. Site had her virtues,
poor lass, and many will think of her with
kindness. An attempt made a couple of
years ago to shorten her skirts and put a
little more silk in her stockings served its
turn, but her lines couldn't be successfully
camouflaged, and that arrangement of belts
under the floor-board suggested museums
to a generation born in the odor of petrol.
Now the whole design has been scrapped and
the new Ford will have a real three-speed
gear; will be as comely as can be, and will
have low running cost as its principal
economy selling point. At one time Henry
turned out more than half the cars in
T'.S. At latest census of manufactures he
was making only a third of the supply.
Miscellaneous
The Australasian cross-country champion-
ship, held at Adelaide for the first time, was
won by George Hyde, the Victorian ; .1. \V.
Savidon, of Maoriland. was second, 150 yards
away, and a local man, Iv. Henschke, third.
Team honors also went to Victoria, who had
four men in the first seven. The race was
run over the Olympic distance of 10,000
metres, and Hyde’s time, 34min. 51sec., is
good, for the course was heavy with recent
rains. This is Victoria’s second win in the
individual race and the State’s first team
victory; N.S.W. has won three of the other
individual events and Maoriland one. With
only one representative M.L. could not
compile on this occasion for team points.
# si: * =!=
“The Gaffer”: Watching the tin-hare
business a man could easily fancy himself
back in the old Botany and Carrington days
or at the big professional pod. meetings in
Queensland. But there's a monotony about
this show that you didn't find in (lie ped.
game—on the inside, at least. A man could
never be sure whether his ped. would go
for the pot or sell his gaffer for the benefit
of himself or someone else. And if there
was a someone else the ped. never knew
whether the chap would act square or work
the double on him. As for the public, we
took dashed good care not to let ’em know
anything, so everyone was on tiptoes and
happy. It is different with the dogs. You
can rely on the poor ignorant brutes doing
the best that's in them —even such as have
scoffed a bullock’s liver before coming on
the course. Fit or “stuffed,” they'll go
their hardest, and you can't “word” ’em.
What could be more monotonous than watch-
ing a mob of triers?
* * * *
“Billy tli’ Goose”: I see th’ parsons an'
th’ pony papers are kickin' up a shindy
about th’ tin ’are an’ deplorin’ its infloonce
on tli’ young mind. That means. I s’pose.
that th’ young mind ’as bin takin’ its trays
out ter Eppin’. ’stead o’ ter Sundee-sehool.
an’ that th' ’obbledc’oys ’as bin cartin’
their ’arf-dollars there, ’stead o’ ter Bobbo
an' Ivenso. Puts me in mind of an ole
wowser in North Queensland ’oo did me
a good turn wunst. It was a matter uv
identifieashun, an’ ’e was too blind ter
reckernise me. ’E tells me later ’e’s stuck
’<>w ter drag th’ money away from cus-
tomers—’e called ’em parish’llers—at 'ees
bazaar w’at was jist cornin’ orf. I offers
there an’ then tor run me spinnin'-jinny for
’im. “Ain’t that gamblin’?” says ’c. “Bli'mc,
no.” I says; “as I play it. it's a game o’
skill.” Too right it was, f'r tli' eows'that was
too mean ter back their eharnee o’ dodgin'
th’ Ole Cove with th’ pitchfork was ’ot an’
willin’ ter back their eharnee on th’ jin.
In three days we ’ad all th’ cash in tli’
districk. I rigged me buttoner up iu an 'at
’n’ coat I borrer’d from th’ old bloke, “so
’e'd look respectable,” I tol' th’ ole bloke.
“ ’im bein’ a pore cove outer work.” W’cn
it was over W’iskers comes in with a canvas
bag o' th" takin’s as big as a show pumpkin.
“I’d like ter see w’ere th’ skill comes in in
this int’restin’ sport,” ’e says. So I sets th’
needle goin’ and shows ’im ’ow I c'n stop
’cr on any number 1 likes —one that isn't
backed, f’r choice. “I see.” ’e says, walk-
in' away thoughtful. “Well, goo’-bye an'
Gor’ bless y\” But 'e 'angs outer tli’ bag
o' gonCe, ’n I knoo ’e was movin’ with th'
times.
“Shrewsbury”: Nothing more clearly
illustrates the differing standards of cricket
form in England and Australia than the
news that Maurice Tate lias completed the
double of 100 wickets and 1000 runs for
the season. Tate has done the trick on
several occasions, and is a frequent century-
scorer in county cricket. When in Aus-
tralia with Gilligan he was recognised as
one of the greatest fast-medium bowlers
England has sent us. Asa batsman he
proved almost as great a failure as his
captain, also a top-notch all-rounder before
coming here, and one that failed with the
ball in Australia as well as the bat. Tate's
batting average for the 1924-25 Tests was
17.22. with a "highest” of 34. For all
matches his figures were 18.83 and 44 respec-
tively.
“Green Cheequer”: There are many
stories connected with pigeon homing, inehni
ing the classic instance of the bird which,
with a wing broken by a hawk, walked back
to its loft, arriving footsore and dishevelled
but dauntless in its devotion to duty. The
latest comes from Eastern Canada, where
a bird bearing a ring inscribed “Lille.
Franco,” was discovered in a deadbeat
state. Canuck fanciers are hotly debating
whether the fowl (lew all the, way from
France or stowed away on some steamer. As
homers fly only one way when released,
and that is back to the home Jolt, one <u.
these theories is untenable. If the pigeon
isn’t an escaped stock bird, originally bought
in France, it most, probably took a passage
iu an American-bound ship while flying back
from Britain to the Continent in one of the
many big races held in the summer.
“Thormanby": Archery has been revived
in some of Sydney’s private schools for girls.
The interesting survival of Crecy and
l’oictiers had a great boom in Britain during
early- and mid-Victorian days ; it then filled
the place now shared by golf and tennis
and was employed just as freely as a medium
for flirtations. The heads took themselves
seriously, too —at least some of them did.
The writer cherishes the legend of a grand-
father who won the North of England
championship. Called to defend his title
at York next year he ordered his wife —they
did such things in those days—-to put his
championship medal in his portmanteau
JACK MONRO, jar years manager in
Sydney for Stadiums, Ltd., who is now
retiring from the -position.
when packing it. Whether the lady did it on
purpose has never been revealed, but when
the champion got to York lie found, instead
of the archery medal, a gold one, the size of
a saucer, for the best sow and pigs in the
West Riding. Nothing daunted, grandpa
mounted this and again emerged triumphant.
“Hide Off”: It is now fairly certain that
an Australian polo team will visit India
after next year’s Dudley Cup tournament.
Already several leading N.S.W. players have
agreed to make the trip, among them W. F.
Boss, captain of Harden, and I. Maple Brown,
who has done so well for Goulburu. J. Skene,
Currandooley’s skipper, has the matter in
hand, and inquiries are being made as to
the possibility of men from other States
being available. A six-man party is sug-
gested. with a corresponding string
of ponies. The ponies should prove equal
to anything in India, where, indeed, most of
STAN DAVIDSON, the remarkably suc-
cessful Newcastle horseman. He rode
more winners in 10 JO-27 than any other
lad in Australia, and has begun the new
season brilliantly.
tin' best ponies are Australian-bred. The
chances of the players against the crack
regimental and native teams are more prob-
lematical. Australian polo has suffered
from the inability of teams to gain ex-
perience abroad except for such brief oppor-
tunities as were afforded during the Great
War —an experience which has done so much
for players of cricket, football and tennis.
* *
“C. Bumpkin” : A silly attempt to cross the
English Channel in a ramshackle canOe made
of aeroplane fabric, sticks and string is (or
was» to be made by one Glenn, a solicitor,
.and Miss Gwen Mountain. It could only be
successful if the Channel happened to be
suffering from a flat calm, in which case
you could row over it in a tub; if any
weather occurs one can be quite sure a
tender of some sort will be shepherding the
lady and gent. For genuinely adventurous
small-boat sailing it is only needful to go
to Rottnest Island. The old convict settle-
ment and ex-German internment camp is
only 14 miles from Fremantle, but it can
provide as nasty and complicated a crossing
as the Channel at its worst.- Yet any sum-
mer holiday you will find there a small
fleet of the 10- or 14-foot racing class—mere
saucers burdened with four times their
legitimate allowance of spars and canvas.
No tender worries about them.
•-S =i= *
“Tuesday” (U.S.A.) : Barring accidents,
the Canadians will have an exceptionally
good sculler at Amsterdam in Joe Wright,
son of Joe Wright of the Argonaut Club,
the Canadian Olympic coach. Young Wright
—he is 19 —is 6ft. 2in., weighs 13st. 51b.,
was 6 in tip- Penn. A.C. national champion
eight in 1926 and is a good boxer. The
elder Wright sprang liis stripling on the
Philadelphia rowing world unannounced last
year, and the lad's victories were frequent
and decisive; one performance of 7min
7 sec. for a mile and a quarter on a lOsec.
stream speaks for itself. At the American
Henley on May 31, Hoover not competing,
the Canuck walked off with the sculling
championship in 7miu. 39sec.. lowering
Olympic champion Kelly’s record by 13sec.
The Toronto boy, who posed for the Ned
Hanlan memorial statue in Toronto Bay,
rows with the typical Yank crouch and, like
Hoover, Gilmore and Myers, keeps his knees
together, using a straight leg-drive—in
marked contrast to Sydney’s own Pearce, by
the way. Indeed, a famous Yank amateur,
commenting on a picture of Pearce, suggests
that , the Sydney lad sits too erectly to use his
arms and shoulders in a sprint, and that his
elbows might be better outside his knees at
the catch than inside, thus enabling him to
get a faster and straighter drive. Be that
as it may, Pearce is going to have no easy
task meeting Wright, Collett, Hoover or
Myers; and the Australian public should
spare no expense to give the boy as good
conditions as the Yanks and Canucks will
ask for and get. Here’s hoping that he will
forget the long-distance stuff and train in-
tensively on quarter-mile dashes- —a standard
Yank event- —and the regulation 2000 metres.
Business. Robbery, etc.
“Kriz": The Australian-made Fordsdale
has a better achievement than the Port Fre-
mantle (1!. 21/7/’27). The Fordsdale ran
from Fremantle to Swansea in 27 days and
from Alexandria to the same port in S days
8 hours.
9 * * *
“C.Q.": Melbourne City Council laid a
water-pipe under a concrete road and tram
track recently without tearing up the street.
The mole-like thing that did it was the
Mangnall-Irving tlmist-borer, an English
notion.
* * *
"Great Scott" : I wanted a cheap whisky
decanter—cut glass was too good for a
casual card party. I paid 15s. 6d. for one:
tliis in Brisbane. A month later, in a
Sydney cash-and-carry store, I bought a
brother to it for Is. lid.
"Percy Pawnticket” : One man in Sydney
has learnt how to lead a gentleman’s life
by haunting good hotels. Being affable is
his occupation. Fifteen years ago, when 1
first knew him, he was a poorly paid clerk;
to-day ho draws so much in commission from
doctors, lawyers, sharebrokers, money-
lenders, agents for flats and motor-cars and
a host of others that he is able to run a
nice car and maintain a big house in one of
the “best” suburbs. And few people who
take his card and introduction realise that it
represents a good bit of business rather than
a friendly act.
*
"Pc Kiri Kiri": Last year 5000 cases of
blue cod were shipped from the Owenga fish-
ing station, Chatham Islands (M.L.), and
about the same from the Kaingaroa station.
The fishermen use 28ft. to 35ft. launches,
two or three being a crew. A ton of blue
cod has been caught b.v one man in one day.
with two 40-fathom lines ; but the usual catch
in fair weather is 15cwt. to 30cwt. per three-
man boat. The price paid to fishermen is
14d. per lb., and to cleaners Id. per lb., dead
weight as caught. The Australian housewife
is lucky if she gets it at Is. (id. per lb.
“Lapin”: Prices of rabbit skins in the
fur markets are still rising. Managing-
director Trethowan lately told the N.S.W.
Farmers and Graziers’ Co-op. shareholders
that, in the near future, rabbit-trapping
would have to oe organised on a large scale,
lik- other primary industries. The pursuit
of bunny would be intensified and conducted
on definite lines, and country too poor to
carry stock would be put under rabbits.
As evidence of the demand, the F. and G.
alone last financial year sold 724 tons of
pelts—l 73 tons more than in the previous
year.
“Harold Hardupp”: Portion of the old
Civil Service stores in Pitt-street, Sydney—
the society moves into its new home shortly
—has been leased. The owner of this valu-
able block is Frank Albert, who made his
start selling popular music and has piled
up money by city land deals. C. J. Coles
Prop., of Melbourne, are the lessees; they
will pay £20,000 p.a., and all rates and taxes,
with an obligation to spend £35,000 on re-
modelling the building and upon fixtures.
They intend to operate a chain of stores on
the same basis as their shops in Melbourne.
The Coles —there are several brothers in
the business—introduced the "one-price"
system to Australia.
“Centurion”.: The tremendous hold of the
Argentine interests on the British beef
trade is shown in cabled figures which give
the South Americans 811 p.c. of the
market, as against Australia’s -| p.c. and
Maoriland’s \ p.c. The balance, pre-
sumably, is made up from home-grown heel
and that imported on the hoof from Canada
and the TT.S. Nevertheless, the Australian
promoters of the new chilling process, whose
experimental shipment by the Port Hardy
was successful, arc. carrying on: the new
motor-ship Port llnon will take a big ship-
ment from Queensland next month. Her
trip is timed for 48 days as against the
Port Hardy’s 02 days.
if si: sjs *
‘Avon”: Maoriland bank averages for the
June quarter show an improvement on the
figures that alarmed bankers three months
ago. Interest rates on both overdrafts and
fixed deposits were raised, and as a result
of this and of the usual seasonal inflow
of produce receipts the gap between deposits
and advances, nearly £5,000.000 three months
ago, has been reduced to £4,260,000. Avail-
able cash, represented by free deposits and
note circulation, has shrunk by £6,000.000
in the last two years, but the importing
boom has been checked and April-May trade
figures show an excess of exports over im-
ports of nearly £4.000.000. There’s still a
good deal of unemployment, and land values
are depressed, especially in the North Island,
but the corner has been turned.


If Whisku were
Unlabelled
' --V-.
r $
7/
5.%-w
7%
m
I H : ;
28
V.
V.
M
\
%
*
%
KJ
m
v.
1
«r
%
1
/
1/
'A
PRICE
8-eaw
V'
m
'a.
prejudice would die
o\
mnk
m
r .{<* >»*•'
: C
,/sM'
nOißun
DI0!
OIST.UtO «• 80 q
olr’m o'sm'- 1 '
EVBOUBNt-^7^
SonttniS
IF you are an average citizen, who likes a taste occasionally, will you
not admit that your eye—rather than your palate—often is the judge
of whisky quality?
Pour a nobbier from an unlabelled bottle or from a friend’s decanter,
and can you tell what brand of whisky you are drinking?
If you cannot, you’ll agree that prejudice has been replacing judgment.
Prejudice has for long been the enemy of OLD COURT—the Aus-
tralian whisky, and has kept many a man from sampling it.
Nevertheless, it has been proved to be the World’s purest. The £lOOO
challenge issued six months ago on behalf of OLD COURT WHISKY
has never been accepted.
Let the test of taste replace the prejudiced oieu) —
Try OLD COURT WHISKY just once,
♦
he Voi idP


Under
Royal
Warrant
r
A^ioao
9UI»
TOOL
1
Vintage 1917.
CHAMPAGNE
REIMS)
Australasian Agents—
Swift & Company Limited
SYDNEY.
%
CHAMPAGNE
Carles I IcidsiecK
Reims
«*e» ffi
PELLISSON
Cognac Brandy.
lo YEARS OLD.
Australasian Averts— *
SWIFT & COMPANY LIMITED, Sydney.
\
A
\M
p
VIT?
v\
11 -IW*
THE WENTWORTH
CHURCH HILL.
Sydney's Most Noteworthy Hotel.
IN the midst of the city, but sufficiently removed
from the racket to provide ideal accommoda-
tic.i for the traveller in search of the perfect
hospitality.
Steam-heated in Winter. Air-cooled in Summer.
Rooms with or without Baths, or with Sitting-
rooms en suit--.
THE DELIGHTFUL WENTWORTH CAFE
is Sydney’s most magnificent Ballroom, and the
Social Rendezvous of Smart People.
All Reservations may oe made by Ringing 8W1361.
The cen/rv of Qu<x>ns/onc/$
//npu/sfac/ Soc/o/ Life-
€eme>m
BRISBANE
Magnificent B a 11-
rooxn. Palm Court
and Lounges at the disposal of
guests and their friends at all
times.
Suites de Luxe —double and single
Bedrooms, with Bathrooms
attached. Hot and cold running
water and Electric Fans in every
Bedroom, and every modern con-
venience for the comfort of guests.
Telegrams and Cables: Lennon’s, Brisbane,
Telephone, Central 5780—10 Lines.
A WOMAN'S
LETER
SAY-
LAYSES
SILK OR
CHAMOISETTE
GLOVES
Martin-place is no longer a city highway.
It is the High Altar of Sacrifice. In its
midst stands the Cenotaph to Australia’s
dead. And not of granite only is the monu-
ment, but of the immortal fires of courage
and self-sacrifice. It is the soul of the lads
who are buried in Flanders, in Palestine, and
by Aegean Seas that we might walk free
citizens under the starry flag for which they
died. It is at once our grief and our inspira-
tion.
Thirty thousand of those who will never
forget came to Martin-place on Monday to
take part in tins dedication. The Premier,
Mr. Lang, in the name of the Government
and the people of New South Wales, dedi-
cated the Cenotaph to the memory of "Our
Glorious Dead,” and gave it into the keeping
of the City of Sydney. Sir Dudley de Chair
placed the first wreath on the memorial, and
as he walked forward the emotions of the
crowd were stirred beyond restraint by the
bugle notes of the Last Post and the Reveille. _
Then in tumultuous waves of sound the voice
of the people was raised in the Recessional.
“Lest We Forget!” they sang; and wreath
after wreath was hung about the Cenotaph.
Laurel was there and golden wattle. V.C.’s
stood at the salute, and the Consuls of great
nations paid their tributes. Then came the
garlands of the Soldier and Victory associa-
tions.
Rut later, when the tumult had died away,
came the little shilling bunches of violets and
lilies of the valley and brown boronia, still
in their tissue wrappings. They sang more
clearly the triumph over time than the
splendid rising sun in wattle that glowed
above the Cenotaph.
Perhaps it is because Mother World finds
herself positively bogged in debt that all
tones of gold are fashion's decree for this
summer. On a kind of principle of showing
the color of your money, at any rate, you
wear it, and hang it in your windows, and
carry it as a handbag. Red, too, is a favorite
over much more of the world than is Musco-
vite. One of the most attractive spring dis-
plays last week was a window behind which
slim ladies, in slim red jumper-suits, looked
pensively at gifts of red shoes and hand-
bags, outspread shawls and a red lacquer
cane which some generous hand had strewn
in their path. Another window where small
boys sailed boats on a tiny pond against a
background of bluoy-greens and faultlessly-
attired ladies reminded at least one mother of
something. “Ah,” she said cryptically,
“sarsaparilla and magnesia!”
Cretonne sunshades will again be worn in
many colors. On one beauty, extended to
capacity, a Pierrot and Columbine coquetted
in full daylight. Sleeves are creeping up
again, and skirts have a tendency to lengthen.
Evening frocks are frilled or draped, and have
shoulder or hip entanglements, such as the
rather dovvn-in-the-moutli chiffon flowers, or
the outstanding bow. The mannish jacket is
nowhere visible at the best shows, and tucks,
frills and fichus are once more decidedly “in."
Simple little hand-embroidered and eyeletted
linens and voiles from 10 to 20 guineas will
be worn.
The Royal Art Society has set its seal
on spring. Its show and the crying of “Sweet-
scented boronia!” always coincide. There
are maidens who hesitate even to look at
spring hats till they receive their R.A.S.
invitation. But on Saturday, when Mr.
Mutch declared the season open to buyers and
critics alike, spring hats had become the
crown of many. Vice-president Charley
Bryant’s sister sported one as blue as the
summer sky; and pretty Elizabeth Mahony
blushed under the newest of wide brims
while being congratulated on her engagement
to John Banks. The artist, who was listening
with equal gratification to praises of his
Elizabeth and his pictures, got utterly
bogged and replied heartily “I quite agree
with you” to one who murmured what a
splendid picture his Fantasy was. Charles
Bryant’s Harbor pieces drew the women, and
.Ten-old Nathan’s study of a nurse drew the
men.
Frances Alda, the opera star, who came
hack to Sydney last Sunday after an
absence of 20-odd years, is dug in at the
Australia, in the rooms that are ear-marked
for Priminister Bruce when lie's in town.
Frances, whose speaking voice has the quick,
decisive note of the business woman rather
than the artist, is short and rather plump,
and has shingled red-gold hair greying at
the sides and very blue eyes.
Alda has brought with her about 30 con-
cert frocks, designed for her by great Ameri-
can, French and Viennese dress architects.
One, a magnificent affair of crimson velvet,
opens on a narrow front panel, stiff with
rhinestones,, pearls and rubies. This is
cut into a low square in the front, is high
at the back and sweeps into a Watteau-
like train about two yards long, outlined
with crystal and rubies. It has a suggestion
of Lady Macbeth doing her sleep-walking-
act, and might appropriately be the dress
accompaniment to the “Sleep, Why Dost
Thou Leave Me” number. Layers of black
ostrich fronds billowing away from a cloth
of silver slip, a deep-slashed V of diamonds
back and front and diamond shoulder-straps
are the component parts of what might be
a black peacock. Red-gold brocades furnish
a modernised edition of the fashion of Ver-
sailles when hosted by the fifteenth Louis.
The front panel is gold lace, its design picked
out in pearls and topaz and diamonds. Then
there's a pale-gold dress that is rising out
of a palely-gold cloud of tulle, and another
that looks like the silver lining slipping from
a sable cloud. Others notable are the white
velvet dress in which Alda sang for the
Queen of Roumania, and a white dress like
a sarong embroidered in green and red,
with long dripping fringes of red rice beads
from the shoulders. There are black velvets
flowered in gold, and jade velvets heavy
with pearls and diamonds. There are chin-
chilla. ermine and sable coats to cover this
magnificence, and diamond necklets and
ropes ot pearls as accessories.
It; makes you sad that Fate didn’t order
you to be a prima donna —till you remember
the tired eyelids of their owner as she tells
of giving concerts in 70 towns before the
New York opera season, and concerts in
70 towns after the season.
Out at the Moore Park Palais the other
night the real gold of the banks and braes
got into circulation, and there was such a
chinking and clinking of charms that the \ i-
king developed quite a middy's twinkle ir
his eye. The dollar princesses at this year';
Bankers’ Ball were prettier and if possible
better dressed than ever, and the young met
had the hundred-per-cent, efficient look tlia.
impels employers to slip the extra doubled
into the pay envelope. Lady de Chair wor
her best pearl and diamond ornaments, and
was otherwise black chiffon over silver
lame. President Oscar Lines, with his sis-
ter and Mr. and Mrs. Kearns, were among
those who murmured welcome to their Exes.
Dr. Cecil Purser, high priest of Prince
Alfred’s, brought Mrs. Purser in chiffons of
the shade worn by the heroine in Robert
Ilicliens’s new novel, “The Bacchante,” and
described by the master of color as Roses
of Ispahan ; and Wm. Epps, Prince Alfred’s
secretary, was also among the mighty. The
yearly flutter helps that hospital to the ex-
tent of about £lOOO
The girl in this picture enjoys that rare
combination, brains and popularity. She is
Wilga Moore, president of the Women
Undergrads.’ Association. Her modesty is
such that
speaking in
public hold s
untold horrors
for her; but
it’s deeds more
th a n words
that count
with under-
gr a d s., and
Wilga has a
genius for or-
ganisation. She
is a member
of the execu-
tive committee
of the Anni-
versary Appeal
for the Univer-
sity, and was
on the girls’
committee that
helped the men
u n d e r grads,
work up last
Sunday’s monster treasure-hunt in the
interest of the appeal fund.
A triumph of the confectioner’s art was
the miniature polo held that adorned the
buffet in the supper-room of the Rose Bay
Golf Club at one of the balls during Polo
Week. It was carried out in white and
green sugar and depicted a match in full
swing. Delicious m arrow* glaccs strewn
around the white-sugar fence were meant for
the delectation of the dancers, but the polo
held remained intact. It measured about 25
inches long by 15 broad and was perfect in
every detail, even to the flags on the goal
posts.
This State promises to produce the bril-
liant lawyers of the future. Champion shuf-
flers and side-steppers the law apprentices
proved themselves the other night when the
University Law Society met at the Ambas-
sadors. Such out Ward expression of inward
grace brought a speculative look to the eye
of Chief Justice Street and a twinkle of
complacency to Professor Peden. (Of course,
when examination time comes round . they
must call him Impedem.) Mrs. street
tucked her lilac and ermine into a place at
the official table, which was administered by
A. G. Elvington. Also on the bench sat the
Bavin family—T. R., Mrs. and daughter
Shirley, who mixed black taffeta and faintly
blushing laces into a heady dress-cocktail.
Zoe Camphiu brought herself wrapped in a
white fur coat. Organdie has again billowed
into social circles; to three of the big dances
last week its fragile, guileful simplicity
added charm. In apple-green and ot W at-
teau-likc design it swirled at the Law dance
about Hilda Wright, who was one ot the hos-
tesses.
Even the tiresome business of banking up
the last trickle of money can’t take the chir-
rup out of the voices of the committee ot the
Extra Chukker Ball. About 700 turned up
to the Wentworth on the appointed night,
and the Country Women’s Association, tor
which the dance was held, expects to benefat
by about £3OO. The dance was the last
flutter of Polo Week and drew two sets ot
vice-regals; but most of the real, country
people had gone back home. Still, there
were polo songs and the polo teams’ colors
to give sporting atmosphere. Three little
country girls were led up to. the vice-regal
hand-clasp by Dame Alice Chisholm.
This patriarch was very familiar to every
reader of The Bulletin 30 years ago—lie
was its “Pumpkin” Smith, so called Decause
1) e was the
first Minister
for Agricul-
tu r e old
Henry Parkes
ever had —and
that was back
in the ’eighties.
Y ears and
ypars ago
Sydney
“P u m p kin”
forsook poli-
tics, or they
mutually for-
sook one an-
other; at any
rate, he was
free through-
out the war to
look after the
soldier boys,
and since then,
a s president
of the Fathers’
Association and chairman of the Cenotaph
Committee, lie has labored that their sacri-
fices may not be forgotten. The photo is
from the Swiss studios.
Flowers from every station on the North
Shore line and from a score or more of school
gardens spent their life in languishing sweet-
ness amid the gilded splendors of the Ambas-
sadors on Friday. For the cabaret for the
Royal Life-Saving Society was a cabaret
with a difference; and the palm-court had
been turned into a garden for the afternoon.
Here, clinking their silver bells and cockle-
shells, half a dozen Contrary Marys belied
their name. Every woman in the room car-
ried a posy or a bouquet. Elaine de Chair
was patroness of the success.
Th«' golden face of spring peeped in at a
party in the Royal Colonial Institute s rooms
last ‘ week. And perhaps because of the
quickening of the old earth’s pulses, the
entrance looked a little time-worn in the
bright afternoon. Even the millinery of the
guests lacked that triumphant paean which the
sunshine seemed to demand ; and the daffodils
and the Iceland poppies lost something of
their jocund mirth when they saw on every
woman the coat of fur and broadcloth, not
to speak of the felt hat and the tailored
suit. It was not until a programme led by
Neville Smith and Virginia Bassetti sparkled
through the atmosphere that the daffys lost
the look that seemed to cry: “Are we living
before our time?” Mrs. D. J. Brownhill
hostessed in a manner that won commenda-
tion from all in the crowded rooms, a red
rose striking a fervid note in the lapel of
her dark tailorings.
The youthful-looking Donald Esplin couple
of North Sydney, surprised their friends by
sending out invitations for a silver wedding
party. The dinner was spread at Farmer’s
under a great silver bell, and 25 narrow
silver ribbons tracked the course of the salts
and peppers before 100 guests. Four nice
sons helped father and mother, who looked
more like brother and sister in the enter-
taining of old family friends.
A blaze of the season’s most advanced
models in spring flowers made the veins of old
St. Mark’s run riot when Ena Mac Neil mar-
ried George Osborne early last week. At the
altar the guiding hand of Canon Howard
Lea helped the graceful bride across, the
stepping-stones in a filmy lace veil and ivory
georgettes. She being the daughter of the
Walter Mac Neils. of Bowral and Burrowa,
and the ’groom George Osborne, eldest son
of Mrs. Robert. Osborne, of Tarcutta and
Sydney, the church was packed tight enough
to satisfv a concert manager. The four
maids, Judith. Osborne, Tlielma McM aster,
Aline Edwards and Lorraine Macphersou, m
vellum-lace frocks over coral-pink georgette
made with the new side drape which falls
from shoulder to knee, drew a buzz
admiration. They favored pink tulle hats,
and carried cascading pink camellias and
hyacinths. A ball of pink tulle that resolved
into trainbearer Bettina Manning added to
the picture.
A group of Bellevue Hill youngsters had
a night-out last week when they hasted to
the wedding of Patricia Wilkinson, a popu
lar member of the Hill’s younger set. Girl
triends had massed and twined the garden
whites and pinks of early spring about the
altar and the aisles of St. Mary’s, and
surrounded by their fragrance Patricia gave
the right answers that made her the wife
of Ivan Eric Abbott, whose father is an
M.L.C. of Bendigo (Vic.). Two golden
girls. Linda Maguey and Gladys Meacle,
matched the gold tissue of their frocks and
hats with armfuls of trailing wallflower,
daffodils and golden pansies.
A pretty little Mosman bride of the week,
Muriel Lamb, had for her principal maid
of honor Marcia Mutton. Muriel, who is
now Mrs. John Nelson, used to own the
northern suburb’s most attractive fluffy-top.
and that head, though of course shingled
nowadays, is still attractive. Its owner has
taken it to Lismore.
Marrying seems to be a confirmed habit
of the Strickland family. The one-time Gov-
ernor of this State got himself married to
an heiress the other day. Mary, the eldest
daughter, who so often had to take the
place of her invalid mother at public func-
tions in Svdney, has been a matron for some
few years.' Now Cecilia, the second daughter,
is engaged to Captain Hubert E. F. de Traf-
ford. late of the Royals, and son of C. E. de
Trafford, of Rugby.
Kate Agnes Campbell, one of the clan that
inherited the earth around Canberra, was
married on Saturday in St. Philip’s to Cap-
tain Charles Newman, of the Rajputana
Rifles, in the Indian Army. _ The bride
chose white satin, its lustre misted over by
flounces of old lace and by an enveloping
tulle veil. Ruth Dunlop ’maided in pink
georgette. The toasts were drunk at Petty's,
and then the principals set off for Narran-
dera to visit Mr. Campbell, who was too jII
to be at his daughter’s wedding. The bride
is taking her English husband on a real
Australian honeymoon; they are motoring
through the Riverina to see the shearing.
The Royal Art Society students’ annual
revel will lie held in the Education Galleries,
on Saturday, August 27. George Duncan is
treasurer and Alice Cooper, secretary. Sur-
prises are in store for revellers, and there are
prizes for the best costumes. A sparkling
burlesque, “Always as Advertised,” by Alice
Cooper, is being produced by students.
There is nothing of the flippancy popu-
larly attached to theatrical marriages about
the union of Herbert and Bertha Belmore,
of “The Student Prince” co., who celebrated
their silver wedding in Sydney. They have
spent the whole 25 years in engagements
together, and they were in the same, company
when they became engaged. One of another
matrimonial pair in the same co. is Nellie
Strong, who plays the Princess Margaret:
her husband is musical conductor Fred Quin-
trell. Both are Australians, but went to
America years ago.
May Dexter of the clever pen and attrac-
tive personality gaily left Sydney on Satur-
day in charge of a proud and brand-new
husband. He is Robert Blau, a son of the
Julius Blaus of Hurstville, and the twain
met last year while May was listening to
“the East a-calling.” They sailed by the
Tango Maru for China, where they intend to
pitch camp.
The little Princess Maurachatra of Siam
always wears around her neck an unusual
little pendant on a fine chain of platinum.
The ornament is made of the King’s initials
in emeralds, and was given her on her 21st
birthday.
You greet Garlings all over Australia
nowadays; Mudgee is one of the strongholds,
and they are in all sorts of businesses. Last
week 120 of the clan met at Longueville to
celebrate the 112th anniversary of the land-
ing in Australia of Frederick Garling, who
became first Crown Prosecutor in N.S.W.,
and his wife. The gathering was at the
home of Percival T. Garling. He is not
exactly the head of the family; W. M. N.
Garling, 86 years of age, is the only living
grandson of the old pioneers. Some of the
children present included the sixth genera-
tion of the well-established tribe. The
original Garling had a conflict with the re-
markable Judge Bent, but as Bent was re-
called the Crown Prosecutor was the appa-
rent victor. IV. F. Dunn, ex-M.L.A. and
Labor Senate candidate at last election, was
amongst the assembled descendants.
The Empire Service Club, which does such
excellent w r ork for the boy settler, is calling
a meeting for 11 to-day at the Australia to
work up interest in the All Star Tennis
Exhibition on April 26, for the club’s
benefit.


HARDY BROTHERS TO
ŕ
BA 8218.
Dainty faceted Wristlet Watch, in !)-earat.
Hold ; with high-grade Swiss lever movement
and new fancy dial. On Moire ribbon band
with Gold sjiap.
£9/10/-
BA 8219.
New shape, 9-carat Gold Wrist Watch, with
reliable Swiss lever movement. On .VfoiYe
ribbon band with Gold snap.
£ll/10/-
BA 8217.
Wristlet Watch, with highest grade Swiss lever
movement. On Moire ribbon band with Gold
or Silver snap.
Silver. 9-carat Gold.
£4/15/-
£8
Wristlet
Watches
Hardy bros. offer
an unrivalled selec-
tion o f Ladies*
Dainty Wristlet Watches
on Moire ribbon bands.
Many charming designs
are available in Gold
and Silver. All move-
ments are fully jewelled,
and carry Hardy Bros.’
guarantee.
The values will be found
to be exceptionally fine,
as Hardy Bros.’ prices
challenge comparison
with any other watches
of equally high standard.
A selection of watches
will be sent on approval
to any address in the
Commonwealth at the
Company’s risk and
expense.
Five per cent, discount allowed for Cash.
Hardy’s New Catalogue will be sent, post free, to any address.
298-300
COLLINS ST.,
MELBOURNE.
HARDY
BROTHERS LTD.
S&T/ouse op
13 HUNTER STREET, SYDNEY.
And at LONDON.
JJ6-118
QUEEN ST.,
BRISBANE.
dteat Austral No. 4 Art Intun
(By permission Attorney-General . N.S.W.)
FOR TIIE
LIMBI
BIERS
PROVIDENT
FUND
3
FIRST PRIZES
I HUDSON COACH J 6465
2 99 99 j£4‘fe§
3 99 99
and 870 other Valuable Articles from £ZTS to £5
including Player Piano and Linen Chest
BUY ONLY THE RED TICKET—ACCEPT NO OTHER
Trusted by the people and with a reputation gained by the conduct of
our last three Art Unions, which paid full prize money and were drawn to
time, the Limbless Soldiers will again keep faith.
The proceeds are in aid of the Provident Fund of the Limbless Soldiers’
Association, and are invested at interest by Trustees to provide for the old
age of limbless returned men.
TICKETS I/-
6 TICKETS 6/- POST FREE
O. BEYERS, Hon. Secretary, 19 Bligh Street, Sydney
Jlj
Greatest
camera
value
XXT’ITH every advantage you
could desire—even in the
most expensive camera—the
No. 4 Ensign Carbine is the
finest camera investment you
can make. Its sound construc-
tion and practicability will win
your enthusiastic endorsement.
THE BRITISH
4
ENSIGN
CARBINE
Constructional details reveal
unusually handsome finish,
staunch build and shutter and
lens equipment—all of which
have earned for this camera
its foremost position in the
photographic world.
Prices
from £2/10
with F/1 1 Single
Achromatic Lens.
Rapid Aplanat, F/8,
£3/2/6.
Aldis Uno Anastigmat,
F/7.7, £3/17/6.
Aldis Uno, F/6 3,
£4/7/6.
13
"Goodwill 3uilt on Public Confidence.'
386 George Street, Sydney.
266 Collins Street, Melbourne.
93 Queen Street, Brisbane.
10 Rundle Street, Adelaide.
Also at—
Katoomba, Newcastle, Wellington (N.Z.) and
Auckland (N.Z.).
Since 1889
the House for
GOOD Cameras.
Harringtons sell
Kodak Brownies
and all Kodak
Photo Supplies.
(£>lq in
The Watchword
for Elegance
and Efficiency
The Timepiece for all Time
It is curious to think that the one
thing in the world which is most
mechanical in its action, and
most practical in purpose, should
. be also the most beautiful in design.
Wafer-like, durable, artistic, and,
above all, accurate, the Elgin is
indeed a Timepiece for all' time.
OBTAINABLE AT ALL LEADING JEWELLERS
&
Vs:
THIS TRADE MARK
ELGIN
U.S.A.
IN THE WATCH CASE


Best Sport Competition
(Man or Woman)
IN CONJUNCTION WITH MONSTER ART UNION
OBJECT: TO RAISE £25,000 FOR THE
KINDERGARTEN UNION OF N.S.W.
\\ ill 3 0U help us to raise £25,000 so that we can erect more Free Kindergartens
and establish a Hospital Kindergarten where poor crippled children doomed to
a life of suffering can be brought each day, to derive the benefits of the beautiful,
Kindergarten teaching and to have a little more sunshine brought into their lives?
Mr. Boyd Edkins—well known to all motorists, and a good sportsman—has
agreed to stand as a candidate in the “Best Sport” Competition. Racing Clubs,
Sporting Bodies and several large Business Houses are nominating candidates.
We need your help.
COMPETITION PRIZES:
Ist Prize—
A Citroen De Luxe Motor-car (Imported Body), valued at £4lO
2nd Prize—
Full Sporting Outfit (for man or woman), valued at . . . £lOO
3rd Prize—
A Special Prize of an Order for Goods on any Shop to the
value of
(To be competed for by Business Girls.)
ART UNION.
£5O
m
The first prize in the Art Union is a
Three-year-old (imported) Racing Thorough-
bred—“Sunflare,” by “Sunstar” (winner of the
English Derby), valued at 1500 guineas. “Sun-
flare” won the Newbury Twiford Nursery
Handicap, 7 furlongs, beating 12 others, and
was then bought by Mr. Rundle Brendon and
shipped to Australia, and is now at H.
Chisholm and Co.’s stable, Randwick. Insured
for £lOOO, policy will be transferred to holder
of winning ticket.
2nd Prize: A Vauxliall 14-40-h.p. Motor-car (Latest Model), valued at £BOO.
3rd Prize: An Oldsmobile Coach, valued at £3OO. 4th Prize: A Pianola (Gui-
bransen), valued at £220. sth Prize: A Piano (Beale’s Upright Grand), valued
at£l6s. 6th Prize: Gramophone (Brunswick), valued at £125. 7th Prize: Sonora
Wireless Set (E. F. Wilks), valued at £ll2. Bth Prize: Electric Kelvinator, valued
at £lOO. 9th Prize: Case of Stainless Cutlery, valued at £75. 10th Prize: Gold
Diamond Studded Wristlet Watch, valued at £37/10/-. And 14 other prizes,
making a total value of £3658/12/-.
Art Union will be Drawn in the Town Hall on November 23 at / p.m.
Butts and money must be in not later than November 21.
All Information and Art Union Tickets, 1/- each, in £1 Books,
Obtainable from—
THE ORGANISING SECRETARY,
MRS. MACDONALD,
12 SPRING STREET, SYDNEY.
Tel. 84970.
o
10
5s
8
0
A. Saunders’
Grandfather
“CHIME”
CLOCKS
MISSION OAK CASES.
Solid Brass Movements, Silvered
Dials, Bevelled Plateglass Doors,
Three - quarter “Westminster”
Chimes, “Litchfield” Strike at the
Hours—
£l7/10/-, £2O, £25, £3O.
Inlaid Mahogany Case, £37/10/-
Full “Westminster” Chimes—
£3s, £45, £5O.
With “Whittington” and “West-
minster” Combination Chimes,
Handsomely Designed Carved
Oak Cases, Massive Burnished
Brass Weights and Pendulum—
£ss, £65, £75.
MANTEL CHIMING CLOCKS.
Solid Oak Case, Three-quarter
“Westminster” Chimes, £B/10/-.
Full “Westminster,” £l2/10/-
Mahogany Case, Three-quarter
“Westminster” Chimes—
£B/10/-, £lO/10/-
Full “Westminster,” £l5.
CALL AND SEE THE LARGEST
DISPLAY OF CLOCKS IN
AUSTRALASIA.
A. SAUNDERS
JEWELLER,
805-813 GEORGE STREET
(Opp. Railway Station),
SYDNEY.
ines
ensiteennica
No 5
THE FRAGRANCE OF
KENSITAS CIGARETTES
e n
%
S".
si^^o
1/ u*
> jfM
T ■*?
<S?
C
■
FRAGRANCE
The aroma of
Kensitas is most
pleasing.
They are as good
as really good
"igarettes can be.
10 for 9 D
20 for I/O
In tins of
50's and. 100’s.
natures iweeTfsj
FLOWERS AR£ INDUCED
To Viet-D Tweii?
Olv/Ng F(?AGI?ANC£
To Every LEAF
DESTINED To BECOME
A kensitas,
Kensitcis
I cigarettes
If dft Manufactured by J. WIX & SONS, LTD., London.
Australasian Representative: P. Saunders, 90 Pitt St., Sydney No.
WestclcoC
Big Ben
Luminous
25 '/.
Baby Ben
,7 /6
gio
R
Glo-Ben
12 /6
Pocket Ben
%
A timely tip
LIGHTER, brighter mornings bring thoughts of
early rising.
Many people wind and set Westclox, well aware
that a punctual Westclox call helps matters along.
All Westclox are trustworthy time tellers. Pocket
Ben and Glo-Ben solve the every day watch
problem. Like the clocks, they are thoroughly
dependable.
The name Westclox on the dial makes it easy for
you to select one. There’s a range of prices and
models from Pocket Ben at 8/6 to Big Ben
Luminous at 25/-.
WESTERN CLOCK COMPANY, LA SALLE, ILL., U.S.A.
12


NATIONAL HOTEL,
BRISBANE.
Charges are for Room Only. European Plan.
Dining Service a la Carte
STRICTLY FIRST CLASS.
TARIFF:
Write for Descriptive Folder.
Address Manager—
ROWES, LTD.,
Cafe and Hotel Proprietors,
BRISBANE.
r
After all, hotel satisfaction is the first essential when travelling. You
must have, as nearly as possible, the same comfort, convenience and service
as you would obtain in your own home.
&f>e
jfotel! Mttdaot
SPRING STREET, MELBOURNE,
will give you the utmost satisfaction in these respects.
It is among beautiful gardens, and possesses a quiet
old-world charm, yet it is but a minute from all the
good city shops and theatres. It. is the acme of
“homey” comfort, and your every want is anticipated
and supplied.
Illliw
Itlll
MHHUIUIISIE
REDUCED WINTER TARIFF
Single Rooms:
Minimum Tariff, from 17/6 per day,
£5/10/- per week.
Telegrams and Cables: “Telwinsbr, ’
Melbourne.
THE HOTEL RANELAGH,
KOBKRTSOX, X.S.W.
Australia’s Tourist Hotel He Luxe.
Accommodation for 130 guests.
Outdoor sports: Golf, Tennis, Riding, Croquet,
indoor amusements: Dancing, Billiards, Bridge, etc.
WINTER TARIFF: Mon. to Fri., .17/6 per day;
Sat., Sun. and Holidays, 21/- per day.
Inclusive Weekly, Xti.
Booking Office: 84 Pitt Street, Sydney. ’Phone: 86491.
Melbourne
Chatter
Buckley's
Elizabethan
Tea 'Rooms
R[?] C[?] 800[?] [?]
Buckley [?] Nunn [?]
[?]
Tlu' tailored costume was in favor at
Caulfield on Saturday, the first day of the
Australian Steeplechase meeting; in such
warm sunshine fur coats were hardly the
tiling. The vice-regal pen was unoccupied,
and many of our swankiest race-goers gave
the meeting a miss, but there was a good
crowd and the committee had nothing to
worry about. Bright-hued hats and highly-
colored coat-posies relieved feminine attire
that ran to greys and fawns and darker
shades. Steel-grey or black hose was worn by
many—the skin-tint effects aren’t so popu-
lar now. In the committee box was Mrs. J.
Alston-Wallace, just back from Europe, all
in black, with gold buckles in her felt hat.
Mrs. T. A. Tabart was there with her
daughter Edna, whose navy suit was edged
with black braid. Margery Van Cootli, like
many others of the younger set, chose grey-
tailored tweed. Airs. Percy Blackbourn
strolled the lawn with Commander Graham
Browne’s wife, the latter in a mole coat With
a black hat. Mrs. Rogers Thomson bright-
ened a black ensemble with a dash of sealing-
wax red in her millinery of velvet; tennis-
champion Patterson’s wife favored a navy
coat and skirt with a beige felt hat; Airs.
Weston Pett topped a black gown with
some attractive furs; Airs. Elmer Pauly,
the Robert Bruces, Richard Lintons, Airs.
E. AI. Pearce, Mrs. Edgar Dye. Airs. Ruther-
ford, with her sister Chic Dickinson, and
Captain Dawson’s wife enjoyed the sun-
shine and the racing. The younger genera-
tion was represented by Betty Shaw, Nancy
Scarlett, Kathleen Rogers Thomson and
others.
There was almost a full muster of fol-
lowers of the hounds at Alelbourne Hunt
Club’s race meeting at Aloonee Valley. Re-
garding it as the opening of a new racing
season the ordinary punters went out in
hundreds, though the weather was bitterly
cold. Furs were worn, of course, but there
was a breath of spring in the lilies of the
valley and posies of primroses that were
worn by many feminine patrons. Alany of
the younger Dianas of the hunt wore tailored
suits of checks or speckled tweeds. Barofl
Somers went out and handed a huge silver
trophy to politician Cuthbertson and D. G.
Landale, joint owners of the winner of the
Hunt Cup event. Alelba, who was accom-
panied by Airs. Herbert Power, was sable-
clad. with a sapphire-blue velvet hat. Airs.
Gordon Lyon, wrapped in musquash, Airs.
E. T. Embling and her daughter, Lorna
Alarie Alackinnon and her mother. Airs.
Donald Alackinnon, Airs. Norman Bayles,
the Esmond Shiels couple, the Pennefather
girls. Gwen Johnston and Joan Chirnside,
the last-named in a fawn and brown tweed
and beige felt hat, were representatives of
the fox-chasing classes. Airs. Richard
Linton’s beautiful Kolinsky cape was topped
by a hat of wine-red velvet.
Tickets for the dance to finance our new
Overseas Club sold like hot peanuts, and
the Embassy’s ballet-room had to be thrown
open for an overflow of jazzers one night
last week. Women’s Automobile Club and
Austral Salon members gave strong support.
Alayoress Alorell was president, in glory
of gold land; and lace. Daughter Sheila’s
black frock had a gleam of silver; Airs. H.
11. Smith was there in coral pink georgette
with bead tracery. Airs. Russell Gabb,
sheathed in silver sequins; Airs. W. AI.
Robins, who topped a silver lace and tissue
robe with a black velvet bridge coat, and
Airs. Felix Lloyd did a thriving trade
in carnival caps and doll mascots. Alar-
garet Chalmers, of Sydney, wore a black
Italian shawl with chic wool embroidery
over an amber-hued gown that was worth
looking at. Airs. Jim Angus gathered some
young people around her table, near by be-
ing Airs. H. 1. Cohen, garbed in gold lace
and tissue. The Edgar Dye couple; Robert
Best’s lady, in black enlivened with crystal;
the Austral Salon’s president, Airs. Thomas
Baker, and the H. G. Alcßoberts couple
were in the throng A. L. S. Russell and
F. N. Hughes were the capable maidens
who secretaried the hop.
The South Yarra Tennis Club put on a
jolly hop at headquarters one night last
week. Mrs. Lindley Baker was a study in
black and w'hite with a white shawl topping
a black crepe-de-Chine frock. Esna Boyd
wore a bridge coat of grey and blue over a
gown of black lace. Airs. Aitcheson was
robed in delphinium blue with a glint of
silver, and Dorothea Hart emulated the sun-
flower in a yellow gown with a fringe of
bronze sequins.
The Old Rosbercons led off last week’s
collection &f school hops Avith a re-union at
the Ormond Hall. Scarlet blue and gold
ribbon wristlets, the school’s colors, distin-
guished the committee maidens, avlio Avere
headed by their president, Belle Bingeman,
in green georgette and beads to match. Miss
Tisdall, head-mistress of this grammar-
school, clad in black with a glint of gold,
joined the gathering and received a posy.
The annual hop of the Old Grammarians
of Merton Hall, at St. Kilda Toavii Hall,
produced such a croAvd of dancers that Mrs.
Heaton Clark, president, and Mrs. J. W.
Barr, lion. sec. and treas., had every right
to look pleased. Sheila Morell, in attire of
black Avith a chirp of green upon its softness,
headed a bevy of assistant maidens that in-
cluded Roma Smith, in sombre raiment with
a single pink rose: Helen Green, clad in
mauve with sparkling adornment; Bessie
Williams, in blue with a silver lining; and
Rachel Ilallenstein, in pale pink. The
school’s colors, dark and light blue amt
gold, figured in the ballroom decorations.
Miss Gilman Jones, the headmistress, and
Misses Pritchard and Zye, members of the
English hockey team, were guests of honor.
The Kooyong Club House blossomed Avith
wattle and pink flowers on Saturday night
when a jolly dance, sponsored by the Tennis
Association, drew a big crowd. Mrs. Harold
Gardiner, in jade green with a sprinkling of
dewdrops; Mrs. Noel Brodribb, in black
trimmed with cut jet; Irene Peppard, pretty
and fair, in a dainty white frock; Gwen
Gillespie, lately back from a trip abroad, in
delphinium blue that featured floral tracery
in beads; Marie Bremner, in flaine-hued
velvet; and willoAvy Norme Collins, in geor-
gette of the same hue with softening of
crystal embroidery, were among the dancers.
Brunswick’s mayor, A. R. Holbrook, is
making a regular carnival of the opening of
the new ToAvn Hall So that everyone may
have a glimpse of the improvements, Avhich
include a war-memorial foyer—-war has
some quaint victories—he has issued tickets
for a long series of concerts with movie
trimmings. The Brunswick civic ball was
held one night last Aveek, when autumn
foliage beautified the hall and the stage was
got up as a cottage garden. Mayoress Hol-
brook’s gown of filmy lace and tissue of
gold blended nicely with the decorations.
Kew’s civic ball at the Recreation Hall on
Thursday night kept Mayor Cole and his
wife busy Avelcoming guests who came from
all points of the compass. There Avere decora-
tions of pink and crimson roses, and magpies
and kookaburras were perched amid greenery.
The hostess Avore black georgette with a
hint of silver embroidery.
This is Mrs. Richard Linton, wife of the
founder of the Lig Brother movement. She
is as keen on the welfare of immigrant
youngsters as her husband is, and welcomes
a great many
of them to
these shores.
Other interests
of hers are the
New Settlers’
League and the
Women’s Hos-
pital. She is
president of
the South
Yarra branch
of the hospi-
tal’s auxiliary,
and now that
her husband is
an M.L.A. she
has added
politics to her
collection o f
hobbies. She
is a Maori-
lander by
birth. Falk
made the pic-
ture.
When Melba sang at Zimbalist’s concert
she wore the simplest of white georgette
frocks hitched over the shoulders with dia-
monds, and twinklers encircled her throat
and swung down to the waistline over the
colored ribbons of her various orders. More
diamonds sparkled on her brow, and even her
shoes glimmered with brilliants. After her
first number, a Mozart aria to which Zim-
balist fiddled an accompaniment, there was
a deluge of bouquets and set floral pieces.
One, a monument of gilded palms, had
“Melba” written across it, and a small
kangaroo peeped out of a bower of wattle.
The violinist got a laurel wreath and a fiddle
of golden-brown .pansies. His Ex. and Lady
Somers, she in black lace and a black velvet
coat with collar of satin roses in shades of
red, led the applause. For Melba’s group of
French songs Zimbalist played the piano-
forte accompaniments, encouraging a belief
among the credulous that extra items would
he a song by the fiddler and a nautcli dance
by pianist Greenwald. It didn’t get quite
as rococo as that, though Dame Nellie’s
singing of “Way Down on the Suh-wanee
River.” while Zimbalist played Dvorak’s
“Humoreske,” justified the wildest hopes. It
wound up conventionally enough with
“Home, Sweet Home,” sung as only the diva
can sing it. The Frank Clarke lady, Mrs.
Russell Clarke, Mrs. Herbert Power, Dr.
Maudsley’s lady and her daughter Cecil,
Major Cedric Henty, the Clarence Marriotts,
Mrs. R. Fitclier and John Long,staff were
in the forefront.
Ignaz Friedman, the stocky, business-
like little pianist who can make a Steinway
roar like a lion, shriek like a banshee and coo
like a dove, captured the hearts of an Audi-
torium audience on Saturday night without
any trouble. The music-lovers wild kept the
virtuoso busy with encores included
Mitchell, K.C.'s lady and daughter Mary,
Mrs. Herbert Brookes, Mrs. Albert Miller,
the Arthur Horderns and daughter Mary,
the 11. E. Sprys, Vere, Clare and Amy
Baillieu, Mrs. R. Fitclier, and Mrs. Douglas
Stewart.
This is Melbourne-born Herbert Rose, the
results of whose three-years’ painting trip in
E n g 1 a n d,
France, Italy
and Tunis are
now being
shown at the
Sedon Galler-
ies. He spent
much of his
time in the
Mediterranean
with a party
of French and
English paint-
ers. Fred Mc-
Cubbin. Ber-
nard Hall and
Bill Mel tines
taught him how
to h a n d 1 e
palette - knife
and brush and
fostered a love
for the etcher’s
needle. Ex-
amples of the artist’s work are to be found
among the etching collections-in the galler-
ies of Sydney, Adelaide and Melbourne.
Though his later work in oils is on the im-
pressionistic side there’s never any doubt
about the effect: he intended to produce.
Pianist Friedman was given greeting by
the Music Club at the Lyceum on Thursday
night, Thomas Brentnall being chosen as
spokesman for the members in the absence
of Fritz Hart. The reception-room was
decorated with groupings of pussy willow
and wild heath. Gertrude Healy played
Fritz Hart’s second sonata for violin, ac-
companied by Mrs. Spry. Mrs. Albert Mil-
ler, Mrs. Corrie Gardner, Mrs. Richard
Fitchcr, Rita Hope, Louise Gargurevich,
Katie fiddle and Dr. Ellery’s wife were
there.
Albert-street Con. was all athrill on Friday
morning. Melba brought Alma Gluck with
her to listen to some young singers. The
student who got most of the diva’s attention
chose “Caro Nome” from “Rigoletto,” to-
wards which Dame Nellie has a proprietorial
affection. This songbird had a free lesson,
Melba playing the accompaniment herself —
she didn’t need the music. Elgar’s part
songs, “The Snow” and “Fly, Singing Bird.”
conducted by Fritz Hart, were the prelude,
after which there were lyrics and arias by
Jean Hambleton, Greta Callow, Ida Walker,
Maisie Ramsay, Eileen Thompson and some
others. Solos from Fritz Hart’s “The Gilly
of Christ” by Lilian Stott greatly interested
the visitors. Nellie Harrison, who hasn’t
yet had her ninth birthday-party, sang the
“Jewel Song” from Gounod’s “Faust.” Melba
admired the prodigy’s performance, but ad-
vised that the child’s training should be held
over for a while.
The British Music Society’s tallying-up
for the year was an affair of tea and song.
President Brentnall talked about the debt
due to Mrs. Jimmy Dyer, who mothered the
B.M.S. in Victoria. The endowment fund
Mrs. Dyer started now amounts to £l5OO.
Five concerts during the last 12 months
yielded £l34 —but that isn’t quite net, since
there’s an account for pmsic to come in.
Ella Riddell sang folk songs of the Hebrides
and Rita Hope and 11. Spry were added to
the committee.
Margot Macgibbon has set out for Fogtown
with her fiddle under her arm. She was
given a friendly farewell and heaps of good
wishes, and she takes in her peggy-bag a
cheque for £l4O, produced by her farewell
recital, and another for £l6O, the result of a
subscription-list circulated by Mary Camp-
bell and cousin Muriel Campbell of the
Albert-street Con.
“The Cradle Snatchers” failed to shock a
big audience in King's Theatre on Satur-
day night—Melbourne isn’t easily shocked —
but it was interesting in other respects. The
scene depicting a room in a New York apart-
ment house causes housewives to calculate
how many yards of draped shot taffeta went
to the wall-coverings, and how much it
would cost. The delicate hue, with its
gleam of pink, framed by white doorways,
looks charming. A boudoir glimpsed he-
yond is liberally hung with old gold brocade.
About the most intriguing frock is the black
and geranium-red attire of Kitty Ladd.
Later she trails miles of reseda-green georg-
ette from clinging gold tissue in an alluring
neglige. Olive Sloan, of the shiny locks,
wears biscuit-liued georgette with dangling
pieces that suggest remnants, but her white
and sparkling evening gown and huge white
feather fan are admired by all. Bertha
Belmore’s powder-blue.chiffon velvet frock is
noteworthy also. The Tallis lady, wearing
a smart gold tissue coat, was a first-nighter.
Byrl Walkley, in the front row of the circle,
was spotted by the gods, and a posy was
lowered to her. The John Fiskens, Mr. and
Mrs. O'Dell Crowther. the C. J. Aherns. Mrs.
Talbot (of the Speck), Mrs. Fred Eggleston.
Mrs. Russell Laudale, smart in black, and
Mrs. llarry Whiting were glimpsed in the
audience.
George Fairbairn. who is returning with
a knighthood from Victoria’s A.-G.-ship. has
bought another pastoral property at Denili-
quin. Between this and his fine seaside
home at Mount Martha, near Mornington,
he intends to take things easy away from the
political hurly-burly.
Professor Wallace's wife goes to England
next month, and Sydney Uni's new Vice-
Ghancellor will he quite used to his new
surroundings before she rejoins him.
The swanky Alexandra Club, at the corner
of Collins and Russell streets, is being
structurally transformed and enlarged. The
old-fashioned corner entrance, fashioned when
Dr. Beaney and Dr. O'Hara in turn occu-
pied the premises, has been replaced by a
window. The main door will be on Collins-
street, and the concomitants will be much
more becoming and impressive. There are
shops close by—too close —but they are
natty, and just a little exclusive, as becomes
the neighborhood. In Russell-street, near
by, are the Y.W.C.A. quarters, erected by the
generosity of the Oonniberes, but it is a
dignified structure and utterly proper.
More than £30.000 has been paid in rent
for Stonington, Malvern, by the Government
for a home for the State Governor. Now
the house and the 14 acres attached to it
have been offered to the Government at a
rate said to be close up to £5OOO an acre.
Premier Hogan, who will give the Cabinet a
lead on the subject, is not keen on buying,
particularly as the present occupants are not
fond of the shack. An alternative suggestion
is that a sort of dower house should be put
up in Government House grounds. St. Kilda-
road. The Stonehavens want the big towered
house during their term, and Priminister
Bruce has arranged for them to hold it. Even
after they go, however, it will be too big for
a State Governor whose salary is a mere
£5OOO. It might be possible to convert the
place, which, with grounds, cost £171,720,
into a museum on the understanding that
the ballroom, which is bigger than that at
Buckingham Palace, should be available for
vice-regal dances on special occasions and
for levees. Perhaps Hogan’s Greater Mel-
bourne Council, if he ever gets one, would
like to meet there.
Robert Garran and his lady, who have to
trek to Canberra, are facing a fusillade of
farewells. Mrs. Robert McDonald gave a
tea-party at her Toorak home on Thursday
afternoon amid perfume of pink carnations
and sweet-peas. Meg McDonald, in blue
taffeta and crepe de Chine, played her vio-
lin. The hostess was in black with a touch
of Oriental embroidery, and her guest’s frock
was of Wedgwood blue, with coat and hat to
match. The throng included the Barrett
and Robinson ladies. Mrs. George Kelly and
Mrs. Hume Turnbull.
The Friendly Union of Sailors’ Wives and
Mothers had the company of Lady Somers
at its meeting on Thursday afternoon.
Rear-Admiral Napier's wife, the president,
said words of welcome and Mrs. Graham
Browne’s small daughter Diana handed up
a basket of sweets with some violets attached.
Mrs. Mansley Greer, Ivy Easton and some
others made music while tea-cups clinked.
The beaded evening frock has a further
lease of life. Models just arrived here are
exquisitely traced and worked in beads of
every hue. Even the frilled frocks carry a
weight of crystal in dazzling designs.
Straighter than ever are the lines of these
dresses, in some of which the wide hip band,
fastened in front with a brilliant buckle, is
revived. One is of blush rose, the hip
adornment being of deep wine tone, and
narrow lines of silver and gold beads thread
their way from corsage to skirt hem. For
the jcun'c fille there is an entrancing gown
with a bodice of pink taffeta and a full skirt
of pink tulle, beneath which shimmers a
flat frill or two of radium lace of the same
shade.
The Ernest Brooks had a big wedding
parade for second daughter Enid Mary, who
met Geoffery Lynn Bristowe at the altar
of St. George’s, Hanover-square, the
swankiest church in Fogtown. early in July.
Mrs. Brooks, once a social light in this city,
entertained a company, liberally sprinkled
'•••)'th Australians, at Claridge’s.


r
lIS
X
fi| v ’ *' •' * r?? ' * 1
“‘V* ’**•' ‘ ■ :
S
mmmm
J:
/
'v I
• I
a
ANOTHER REASON WHY REPUBLIC
HAS MORE TRUCKS IN USE
THAN ANY OTHER
\ EXCLUSIVE TRUCK /
MANUFACTURER.
=sar..
\ 1 '
* (f-X sV-
7^X
f /t * ■ A. H'
‘ ' H
‘W
X
r-
The most effective braking system
ever devised for motor trucks.
The Republic driveshaft brake is the most highly
efficient braking system ever developed for motor
trucks —and an exclusive Republic feature.
The brake is mounted on the drive shaft, and is
self-aligning. It consists of two large adjustable
shoes, contracting on a wide steel drum, laminated
for additional strength and perfect balance. This
brake can be completely relined in thirty minutes,
and can be adjusted by the driver, on the road, in
half that time.
This exclusive braking system means absolute
driving confidence on any grade, and positive load
protection under any circumstances. It is one of
the many exclusive Republic features which com-
bine to make Republic the one truck which will
work at a profit under all Australian conditions.
There's a model for every haulage need from
I—s1 —5 tons. Ask the nearest Republic dealer.
\
/'\l !
KX
y
r $
0
D
W
ŕ
ŗ
ř
NEW SOUTH WALES:
Larke, Hoskins & Co., Ltd., 177 to 185
William Street, Sydney.
VICTORIA:
Preston Motors Pty., Ltd., cor. Elizabeth
and Therry Streets, Melbourne.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA:
Rasch Motors, Ltd., 69 Waymouth Street,
Adelaide.
WESTERN AUSTRALIA:
Republic Truck Sales, Ltd., 905 Hay
Street, Perth.
QUEENSLAND:
Canada Cycle & Motor Agency (Qland),
Ltd., Creek & Adelaide Streets, Brisbane.
NEW ZEALAND:
Inglis Bros. & Co., Ltd., Taranaki &
Cable Streets, Wellington.
Factory Distributors: W. A. CROWLE, LTD, Crovvle House, Castlereagh Street, SYDNEY.


Legal Notices.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF SOUTH
1 AFRICA.
(Transvaal Provincial Division.)
In re :—
FLORENCE MAY HUGHES (born
Middleton) Plaintiff
versus WALTER EDMUND HUGHES
Defendant.
Citation.
TO WALTER EDMUND HUGHES
last heard of in Sydney Australia.
TAKE NOTICE that by Edictal Citation
issued out of this Honorable Court and now
filed in this Office you have been cited to
cause an appearance to be entered at this
office either personally or by pi’oxy on or
before the 23rd day of September 1927 in
an action to be heard in the Supreme Court
of South Africa (Transvaal Provincial
Division) at Pretoria in which your wife
FLORENCE MAY HUGHES (born Middle-
ton) of Johannesburg claims: —
(a) An Order for restitution of conjugal
rights, or failing this:
(b) A decree of Divorce;
(c) Forfeiture of benefits;
(d) Custody of the minor child;
(e) Costs of Suit;
(f) Alternative relief.
AND that in default of your appearance the
action may be proceeded with and judgment
granted against you without further notice
to you.
Pretoria, this 12th day of July, 1927.
(son.) E. H. HICKMAN,
Assistant Registrar of the Supreme Court
(Transvaal Provincial Division),
Pretoria, Transvaal,
Union of South Africa,
(son.) C. A. LEPPAN, Plaintiff’s Attorney,
C/o Adams & Adams, 36 Bureau Street,
Pretoria, Transvaal, Union of South
Africa.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF SOUTH
1 AFRICA.
(Transvaal Provincial Division.)
BETWEEN FLORENCE MAY HUGHES
Plaintiff
AND AY ALTER EDMUND HUGHES
Defendant.
Plaintiff’s Intendit.
1.
The Plaintiff is FLORENCE MAY
HUGHES (born Middleton) of Johannes-
burg in the Transvaal Province.
2
The Defendant is *WALTER EDMUND
HUGHES domiciled in the Transvaal Pro-
vince.
On or about the 24th day of December
1918 and at Folkestone in the County of
Kent England the Plaintiff was married to
the Defendant in community of property
which marriage still subsists.
4.
There is one child born of the said mar-
riage namely a boy aged seven years.
• 5.
In or about the month of May 1925 and
at Johannesburg the Defendant wrongfully
unlawfully maliciously and without good
cause deserted the Plaintiff and has neglected
and refused and still neglects, and refuses
to return to the Plaintiff and to restore con-
jugal rights to her.
WHEREFORE the Plaintiff claims:—
(a) An Order on the Defendant that lie
restore conjugal rights to the Plaintiff with-
in such time as shall be fixed by this Honor-
able Court and in default of compliance
therewith:
(b) A decree of divorce dissolving the
said marriage between the Plaintiff and the
Defendant;
(c) Forfeiture by the Defendant of all
benefits accruing to him by reason of the
said marriage in community of property;
(d) Custody of the said minor child born
of the said marriage;
(e’* Costs of Suit.
(f) Alternative relief.
Dated at Pretoria this 11th day of Julv,
1927
( sgd. ) C. A. LEPPAN,
Plaintiff’s Attorney,
C/o Adams & Adams,
36 Bureau Street,
Pretoria, Transvaal,
Union of South Africa.
(sgd.) D. AYESSELS, Plaintiff’s Counsel.
Legal Notices.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW ZEALAND.
NORTHERN DISTRICT.
Ix Divorck.
No. 3227.
BETWEEN ELSIE MARION LIN TERN of Auckland
Married Woman Petitioner.
And EDWARD WILLIAM PERCIVAL LINTERX
of Sydney New South Wales Debt Collector
Respondent.
To EDWARD WILLIAM PERCIVAL LINTERN
the husband of ELSIE MARION LINTERN of the
Citv of Sydney New South Wales Debt Collector.
TAKE NOTICE that a Citation has been issued
out of the Supreme Court of New Zealand at Auck-
land citing you to appear and answer the Petition
of Elsie Marion Lintern of Auckland wherein she
prays for a dissolution of her marriage with you on
the ground of desertion and such citation intimates
that in default of your so doing the Court will
proceed to hear the said Petition and to pronounce
sentence therein notwithstanding your absence.
NOW THEREFORE take notice that for the pur-
pose aforesaid you are within forty days after the
date of this publication to attend in person or ■by
your Solicitor at the Supreme Court Office at Auck-
land and there to enter an appearance without which
you will not be allowed to address the Court at any
stage of the proceedings.
A copy of the said Citation and Petition will be
supplied to you on your applying for the same at
the Supreme Court Office at Auckland.
Dated at Auckland this 22nd dav of June 1927.
S. A. CLEAL,
Deputy Registrar.
Friends of the Respondent are particularly re-
quested to forward to him the foregoing advertise-
ment.
Mr. J. Hogben is the Solicitor for the Petitioner
whose address for service is at the offices of Messrs.
Neumegen and Neumegen, Solicitors, drey Buildings,
Courthouse Lane, Auckland, N.Z.
DB JOHN FRANCIS MAJOR, late of
H Laura, near Cooktown, in the State of
Queensland, Saddler, Deceased.
NOTICE IS HEREBY GIVEN to MAX
OERTEL MAJOR, a brother of the above-
named, and to his children (if any) that lie
or they are required to send in particulars of
his or their claim or claims against the
Estate of the said deceased to THE LOCAL
DEPUTY PUBLIC CURATOR, TOWNS-
VILLE, on or before the Thirty-first day of
October, One thousand nine hundred and
twenty-seven, otherwise the Estate of the
said deceased will be distributed amongst the
parties entitled thereto disregarding the
claims of the said MAX OERTEL MAJOR
and his children (if any) and all persons
claiming by, through or under them or any
of them by derivative title or otherwise how-
soever.
Dated at Townsville, in the said State,
this Twentieth day of July, 1927.
ALAN FORD,
Local Deputy Public Curator.
Townsville.
THE next of kin of CHARLES HAY-
WARD, born in Somerset. England, but
late of Reefton, Cambridge, Tauranga and
Auckland, New Zealand, or anyone knowing
their whereabouts, are requested to com-
municate with the
DISTRICT PUBLIC TRUSTEE.
Auckl and, New Zealand.
Missing Friends.
TO AUGUSTA MARGARET MAGUIRE,
A formerly of 87 Great Buekingham-street,
Sydney, in the State of New South Wales,
but now of parts unknown, married woman,
and to FRANK STEVENSON, formerly of
87 Great Buekingham-street, aforesaid, but
now of parts unknown. —TAKE NOTICE
that JAMES PATRICK MAGUIRE lias
instituted proceedings for divorce against
you, the said Augusta Margaret Maguire, on
the ground of adultery with you, the said
Frank Stevenson. Unless you enter an
appearance in the Prothonotary’s office in
Melbourne on or before the Fifth day. of
September, 1927. the case may proceed in
your absence and you, the said Frank Steven-
son, may be ordered to pay costs.
H. IT. IIOARE, 440 Chancery-lane, Mel-
bourne, Solicitor for the Petitioner.
‘‘U' l UTTLEFISH,” from N.Z. Cicely de-
sires communicate, but L. Davis (New
York) has lost address.
If any illustration in The Bulletin takes
your fancy, write to the Manager, who will
quote you price for the original.
ROYAL AGRICULTURAL SOCIETY OF NEW SOOTH WALES
ROYAL SPRING FAIR
SHOWGROUND, MOORE PARK, SYDNEY
27th SEPTEMBER TO
Ist OCTOBER, 1927.
5 DAYS 4 NIGHTS
£4OOO PRIZES £4OOO
RING EVENTS (including classes for Saddle and Harness Horses and
Ponies, Hunting, Jumping, Trotting and Equestrienne Events) —WOOD-
CHOPPING CONTESTS—WOMEN’S INDUSTRIES EXHIBITION-
CITRUS FRUIT SHOW—GRAND INTERSTATE BAND CONTEST—
HORTICULTURAL EXHIBITION—AND OTHER NEW ATTRACTIONS.
Entries Close.
INTERSTATE BAND CONTEST 15th August
HORSES (including Trotting Events) 3rd September
WOMEN’S INDUSTRIES sth September
HORTICULTURE 7th September
CITRUS FRUITS 10th September
RICE CLASSES 10th September
JUNIOR FARMERS’ COMPETITIONS 10th September
DOGS AND CATS 7th September
WOODCHOPPING CONTESTS 17th September
SCHEDULES AND ENTRY FORMS ON APPLICATION.
Endeavour House, G. C. SOMERVILLE,
33 Macquarie Place, Sydney. Secretary.
The Little Sisters
Lennon's Hotel
BRISBANE
The Centre of Queensland's
Distinguished Social Life!
QUEENSLAND.
Brisbane.
nis Ex. has been laid up with a bad cold,
but Lady Goodwin and a Government House
party that included Colonel and Mrs. Camp-
bell went to Pat Hanna’s Diggers in the
Theatre Royal. The 1 Jiggers gave a merry
programme with all mothers of soldiers on
the free list, and there was a big house.
Her Ex. occupied a box with a vice-regal
party on “Ruddigore’s ’ first night at His
Majesty’s, and the latest item in the Gilbert
and Sullivan series has been a huge success.
The company is giving a benefit matinee for
La Gruta, the ’cellist, who fell from a tram
and lost his foot.
The Stonehavens are staying at Govern-
ment House, and this week the Press Institute
will give Priminister Bruce a party in the
Criterion. For tin- rest, Brisbane is given
over to enjoyment of the annual Show.
Blue and gold dressed the South Brisbane
City llall for the A.N.A. crush ; there were
palm fronds and flags and a lounge gay with
lightsome wattle; and for the vice-regal table
brilliant gumtips and Iceland poppies in
silver vases. With Lady Goodwin came
General Chauvel and his wife, Colonel and
Mrs. Campbell and Major Wolff. They were
received by Major Jolly and the W. V. Ilef-
ferans. Violets, daffodils and sweet-peas were
presented to her Ex. and the Chauvel lady
by little Jean Robinson and Jean Downey.
Lady Goodwin wore rose-color, with silver
and white fur; General Chauvel’s wife was
in apricot: Mrs. Campbell chose black and
gold, and Mrs. Hefferan black mariette.
Lena Hammond and Gladys Frost gave a
recital in the Albert ITa 11, Fred Homer
assisting with the programme. Flowers and
fruit were handed up to the performers till
the stage looked like a serpentless Garden
of Eden. Lena Hammond wore a gold, bur-
gundy and black sequined frock. Gladys
Frost was in foxglove, veiled in platinum
lace.
The Queensland branch of the B.M.A. had
a dance at the National Roof Garden. Dr.
Foxton and Dr. and Mrs. Russell welcoming
the guests against a decorative background of
shell-pink and ivory. Mrs. Eustace Russell
wore black taffetas, Jean Darvell was in
silver and rose, and Miss Tewkesbury
(Sydney) chose cyclamen velvet.
At Nell Douglas Graham’s dramatic recital
in All Saints’ Hall, Noyes, Kilner and
Katherine Tynan were drawn upon. The
costumes were delightful, and Patricia Mc-
Gregor was amongst those who took part in
‘‘Miniatures of Beloved Women.” Marjorie
Hollinshed and Phyllis Dana arranged a
fancy dance. There were also scenes from
“Cymbeline” and “Twelfth Night,” in which
Noel Chandler had a part, and at the finish
heaps of flowers were handed up to the per-
formers.
WESTRALIA.
Perth.
The opening of Parliament by his Ex.
was the principal event of the week. Presi-
dent Kirwan, of the Plush Chamber, and
Speaker Walker, found their rooms invaded
by a regular horde of women. One woman
was present by right and not by courtesy,
May Holman, who was the centre of attrac-
tion as she lined up with her fellow members
to hear the Speech from the Throne. She
was in black, with a few bright touches of
color and a black and white ostrich-feather
necktie.
Mrs. James Brennan and her three chicks
returned by the Maloja after 1.5 months’
wandering in the Old Dart and on the Con-
tinent. The daughters made their bow at
Buckingham Palace.
Gordon Colebatch, second son of our ex-
Agent-General, is winning fame as a tenor.
His next engagement is at the Buenos Ayres
Opera House.
This is a
picture of our
Wheat - meal
Princess, Mrs.
Mary Farrelly,
J.P., who has
earned her title
by a campaign
for food reform.
She has been
engaged in
p r o p a ganda
for 19 years,
has lectured
and threatened
and advised;
and now re-
ceives sheaves
of letters of
grateful
thanks.
An enjoyable
affair was the
St. John Hos-
pital hop, held in Government House ball-
room. Mrs. Wilford Mitchell was again the
organiser, and her daughters were valuable
aides-de-camp. The Free Ward benefited
considerably.
Mrs. Arthur Jacoby and Mrs. Marillien
engineered a bridge party, part of a cam-
paign to provide funds for the Children’s
Protection Society. The Green Room club-
rooms were filled, and about £4O resulted.
Mrs. A. Randolph Nott, who has hidden
her light under a bushel for some years, gave
an elocutionary recital on Saturday evening
which delighted old friends and new. Her
mother, Mrs. Fairfax Conigrave—she’s over
80 —took part in the affair, reciting “I Ain’t
Dead Yet.”
Mrs. A. E. Joyner. State president of the
Women’s Service Guilds, returned from Syd-
ney last week. With Mrs. Rischbieth she
represented the guilds at the conference of
tile Australian Federation for Equal Citizen-
ship. Mrs. Joyner has been associated with
every movement and organisation for social
welfare in the State, and her home-coming
was made a joyous event.
The golf championships at South Perth
drew big crowds of onlookers. A daughter of
Judge McMillan and liis lady won the
women’s championship with the best score
on record for the event.
TASMANIA.
Hobart.
The O’Grady opened the annual show of
the Hobart Poultry Club, and had to fight
for a hearing against the cock-a-doodler
dooing of the roosters, who behaved in a
most ribald way.
This is
Mabel Hookey,
whose name is
familiar to
those inter-
ested in Aus-
tralian art.
She has ex-
hibited several
times at the
Sydney women
painters’ show.
Her picture of
Bream Creek
was chosen to
represent Tas-
manian art at
Wembley.
Mrs. Robert
llall, repre-
senting tli e
Hobart Child
Welfare Asso-
ciation at the
I n t ernational
Council of Women at Geneva, writes that
the proceedings are interesting, but that
delegates are rather crammed with lectures
and given no time to discuss them. The
br.bel of tongues among so many nation-
alities is also somewhat confusing.
Winter is still with us, and week-end
sports at National Park and Lake Fenton,
among the ice and snow, are attracting many.
Never has the snow on Mt. Wellington been
so thick or remained so long unmelted.
Early risers are rewarded by the sight of
a rose-colored mountain.
The annual Uni. ball was full of vim
from start to finish. A few grave and
reverend folk put in an appearance early in
the evening, but taken on the whole it was
a young people’s affair, as a students’ ball
should be. The decorations were in the Uni.
colors, blue, red and gold, in an effective
arrangement of streamers and balloons, and
the main staircase was redolent of eucalyptus
from the greenery decorating it. The frock-
ing was exceptionally pretty.
The Wattle League’s tree-planting at the
Consumptive Sanatorium was blessed by
brilliant sunshine, which drew a large
crowd out of doors. Five dozen trees, all
Australian varieties, were planted by the
different schools represented.
Chief-Justice Nicholls’s lady and Mrs. M.
C. Shoobridge engineered a dance at the
Continental in aid of the Child Welfare
Association. About 200 dancers enjoyed
themselves, and several side-sliow r s proved
themselves money-makers.
Millie, only daughter of the Horace
Watsons and one of our sweetest sopranos,
said her vows to H. W. Wilson at the
Cathedral. The music was a special feature
of the ceremony. The bride wore a gown of
navy erdpe de Chine and tucked georgette,
small floral hat and skunk furs, the bride-
groom’s gift. The only ’maid was his sister
Amy, in dark blue with bands of mole fur.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA.
Adelaide.
The Bridges were at the Rotary Club Ball
in the Town Hall—an item of a Charity
Carnival programme that included a button-
selling campaign a couple of days later.
Black and orange were the decorations, with
bunting a-flutter aloft. On the supper tables
there were Iceland poppies and altnond
blossom and soft pink and mauve sweet-
peas. Mrs. A. E. Clarkson, in silver-beaded
black, and Mrs. It. N. Phillips, with beige
lace over her powder-blue georgette, did the
honors. Lady Bridges was in black, heavily
jetted, with a white fur coat a-top.
American women who dwell within our
gates were guests of honor at an E.S.U.
tea the other afternoon, and mustered two
or three dozen strong at the Wentworth.
Mrs. Glover, president of the reception com-
mittee, said welcoming words, and the Ameri-
can Consul’s wife, Mrs. H. Balch, stood by
her to share the how-de-does.
Her Ex. and daughter were at the Chamber
Music recital at the Con., a Brahms evening
at which the Con. quartette covered itself
with glory. The A major pianoforte quar-
tette was done by Maude Puddy at the
piano and Schlisky, Sylvia Whitington and
Harold Parsons wielding bows. Clive Carey
sang.
White satin, slim and tight-fitting as to
bodice, long and bouffant as to skirt, girdled
with pearls, and with a long tulle veil mak-
ing a cloud of softness about it, was the
wedding garment of Ellen, second of the
Patrick MacMahon Glynn daughters, when
she made her vows to Capt. Emmett Mac-
gillicuddy at St. Lawrence’s Church. Her
bridesmaid was sister Dymphna, all pale
green taffeta and gold.
The Masonic Hall has been in extra gay
dress for a couple of nights, first for the
masked ball of students of the School of Arts
and Crafts, and then for the Naval and
Military hop. At the former frocks were
everything from the splendor of peacocks
to the simplicity of straight grey tubes like
those that ho’d painters’ oils. There were
houris and pierrettes, golliwogs and cooks,
pirates and hooped Victorians, Dutch girls
and Indians, and a white rabbit who, un-
masked, revealed herself as the dance’s hon.
sec.. Gladys Feale.
The Naval and Military Ball was all a-
glitter with uniforms and orders. The
Bridges were there, she in silvered black,
and Mrs. Armstrong, with a flame-colored
velvet cloak over her pink georgette. Mrs.
Wallace Bruce was all flame-colored sequins.
Mrs. Louden Shand, one of the hostesses,
wore a girdle of gold around her black lace
frock.


AmsisoiiM'ms,
EMPIRE THEATRE,
Railway Square, adjoining Saunders’ Corner,
in Quay Street, Sydney.
Uufe Naylor has the honor to present
2/6 the student prince 5/6
By arrangement with J. J. and Lee Shubert,
of New York.
NIGHTLY, 7.45 SHARP.
Reserves at Theatre (ALA. 1000), Nicholson's
Paling’s, Hotel Australia, Usher’s, Carlton, Samuel’s.
Matinees Wednesday and Saturday at 2.
Theatre Box Office Hours: 9 to 3, 4 to 9.
S YDNEY’S CHIEF THEATRES.
J. C. WILLIAMSON, LTD., present
HER MAJESTY’S:
MADAME POMPADOUR.
CRITERION: THE ROAD TO ROME.
ROYAL: THE RINGER.
PALACE: MARY STUART.
3T. JAMES THEATRE, SYDNEY.
Sir Benjamin and John Fuller Present
LADY, BE GOOD!
The Musical Comedy Supreme.
Mutinies Wednesday and Saturday, 2.15.
Plan at Nicholson’s and Theatre.
RICKARDS’ TIVOLI THEATRES
Lessees: Harry Rickards’ Tivoli Theatres, Ltd.
MELBOURNE and SYDNEY.
TWICE EVERY DAY—2.3O and 8.
( KLKBBITV VAUDEVILLE.
The World's Best.
.1 C. \Y ILLIA M S O N, LTD.,
MELBOURNE ATTRACTIONS.
HIS MAJESTY’S: ROSE MARIE.
KING’S THEATRE:
CRADLE SNATCHERS.
THEATRE ROYAL: TIP TOES.
A I H EN Ji U M TH E AT R
** MELBOURNE.
Proprietor: Frank Talbot Ptv., Ltd.
■ Lessee: E. J. Carroll.
EVERY EVENING AT 5.15.
E. J. CARROLL PRESENTS
OUTWARD BOUND,
One of the most remarkable plays of this generation.
Plans at Allan’s.
p A LACE THEATRE,. MELBOURNE.
* Proprietors: Sir Benjamin and John Fuller.
PHILIP LYTTON Presents
THE SHEIK
THE--PLAY, NOT THE PICTURE.
Nightly at 8.
Matinees- Wednesday and Saturday, 2.16.
Plans at Glen’s and Theatre.
jyi \.l ESTIC THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
NEW SERIES OF
THE PICTURES THAT TALK.
The Phonofilm is the wonder of the age.
WARNER BROS. Present
SILKEN SHACKLES.
Featuring
IRENE RICH and lIUNTLY GORDON.
Box Plan at Allan’s and Theatre. ’Phone 7076 & 7790.
HOY T’S D E LU X E THEATRE,
n MELBOURNE.
RAMON NOVARRO and ALICE TERRY in
LOVERS.
ALSO
CONSTANCE TALMADGE in
VENUS OF VENICE.
Prices as usual.
Til E ALL A N V ILK I E SHAK-
-1 SPEAREAN PRODUCTIONS.
NEW ZEALAND TOUR:
DUNEDIN: 11. M. Theatre, July 30 to August 19.
Sydney Manager: J. V. De Batyn.
Head Office: Pulsford’s Chambers, 178 Castlereagh St.
Cable and Telegraphic Address: “Othello,” Sydney.
G.P.O. Box 2229 LL.
<0
Full
and
(one
easy
play
you require n
musical know
Ideal for home
dances it not only adds to the value of the
harmony but quickly gives you a musical
“sense'' —so that you will easily remember all
the latest song hits.
Made in two sizes—No. 5, 13" long, 12/6
post f'ce, and No. 2, 11 i n long.
Price, post free
Complete Instructions with every Instrument.
Write for descriptive List.
long, • z./u
7/6
OBTAINABLE FROM ANY MUSIC.DEALER
OR DIRECT FROM
A.P. SYKES
171 Lit. Collins St.
■■(Melbourne .
When orderinq plcarc mention thtr poher.
It any illustration in The Bulletin tabes
your fancy, write to the Manager, who will
quote you price for the original.
XI
7//
jy
d?
$
A pleasure to wear . . a satis-
faction to own . . . undeni-
ably smart. . always correct.
§ltae6
FOR MEN
Priced Moderately
32/6 to 50/-
the pair.
j Ask your nearest
Retailer or
Storekeeper.
MS 06
r
'25/- Pure Wool
Rug for—
An August Stock-taking Special
at Murdoch’s. A warm, protec-
tive All-Wool lln". Servu-'nble
check designs. Size, GO x 72 in.
Postage Free. Write to Desk 11.
MURDOCH’S IN PARR ST. LTD., SYDNEY
18/11
tm
a-v
Vaseline
TRADE MARK
PETROLEUM JELLY
FOR WOUNDS
If at all serious, use an
approved antiseptic and
dress with “Vaseline”
Jelly. Brings comfort,
eases pain, helps nature
heal quickly.
Look for the Trade Mark “Vaseline?*
It is your protection
Chesebrough Mfg. Go., Cons’d
New York London Montreal
RUPTURE
BOOK
FREE.
No man or woman who is
Ruptured can afford to be
without this valuable book.
“The Modern Treatment and
Cure of Rupture.” It will explain exactly
what Rupture is, its causes, its dangers,
how in every instance complete Comfort
and Security can unfailingly be obtained,
and how in many cases even a radical
Cure is effected.
Don’t be misled and think this impossible
because you have been told so, or because
you have been discouraged and tortured
by old-fashioned and primitive Trusses,
which have proved useless.
This Book tells you of a Modern —a Newer
and Better way.
IT IS WORTH ITS WEIGHT IN GOLD,
AND IT IS FREE; COSTS NOTHING.
Simply fill in and post to-day this
FREE COUPON—
THE NEW ROUSSEL HOLD-
FAST RUPTURE CO..
Fay's Chambers, 61 Market Street,
Sydney, N.S.W. (one door from
Pitt Street).
Please send me, Post Free and
■without obligation on my part,
your Free Book on Rupture.
NAME
FULL ADDRESS
STATE
(Please write plainly.) B.
Answers to Correspondents.
So notice (except of a hostile character) will he
taken of communications insufficiently stamped.
Same ■ and address must appear on the MS. No
liability is undertaken re contributions volun-
tarily submitted; an d no MS. will be returned
unless stamps accompany.
Kaja : Good idea. Simplify both the story
and the telling... .F.H.T.: Oh cheer up, we’re tired
oi short stories in which everybody loves being
miserable... .Nance W.: One may do S.W.H.:
The gold of your wattle is dross... .Jean C.: Fails.
... .G.N.: Hook not well baited with the fish anecdote.
.... 8.R.N.: Not worth the postage. .. .11.NTS.: Does
red wine foam?... .G.L.R.: Sorry to hear of the
lapse of Edward, the son of the widow. The drink
had evidently gone to her Ed....Philo: All slipped
on the edge; but why the “thy” when “you’ would
do? Nosey 13.: If the second thoughts are better
than the first, we’re glad those didn’t arrive....
Jack T: Why drown a good yarn in words ?....
Bis M.: The refrain appeals:—
But she’s a good pure-hearted girl;
For aristocrats she don’t care a can.
The bank-clerk fails; he gets the pearl
Who is an Honest Working Man.
S.I’.C.: Spring song sprang a leak in the third
stanza. .. .Mary W.: You get your Irish and your
Maori badly mixed... .Anna L.: Not quite... .C.E.T.:
A series of unrhymed statements is not the sort of
verse we want....H.B. (Seacliff, S.A.) : The idea
that your beloved is calling may be all right, but
there’s no demand for verse about it..,.Ger. M.:
People half a mile away thought it was an explosion;
it was only your verses falling into the w.p.b
Bear: Doesn’t pan out a pennyweight to the ton
Coreen N.: Some of it good; it fails on the whole.
....Felix: “When he came near I smelt the beer”
is its only pleasing feature... .G.P.S.: “The Ship”
went down with all its “ands”... .C.K.T.: A lot of
mystery but very little story.... Marian W.: Neat;
but the slight idea is overused.... J.G.L.: “Solitary”-
“harmony”! You can’t make a slick verse out of
such a poor ear.... Keith S.: Terrible!... .J.F.: One
pathetic verse: —
If they want me only,
They can’t us divide.
I won't go to Heaven
If my dog is outside.
E.5.11.: Well told; but it would need to be
written with a comedy touch to be effective....
Clio: Still not quite G.M.C.: The lady’s excuse is
too obvious A.L.W.: The song about the empties
is a dead marine E. 8.: “Arbitration” fails
G.L.M.: “Flower” faded 8.’8.R.: You say that
“ev’ry tear that’s shed’s a pearl” ; but your verse is
no gem... .L.M.A.: Your hero is accidentally shot.
Most of them get “shot” deliberately.... Mary C.:
Very near. Would read better if the thought were
broken into more concise sentences.... Ed. D.:
Whereabouts in the Australian hills do you place
that gunning feud?... .G.B.R. (Armidale) : You,
too. You live in the Captain Moonlight country
—-and you travel to Pennsylvania for a story !....
M.C.: Not enough mustard on the meat.... Armorel:
It’s good in parts, but has crudities. Try it again,
smoothing them out—but don’t lose the humor....
Sibyl P.: Likeable, . but it lacks the necessary
finish. Keep on Thos. S.: Heavy essay on humor.
Boof: Poor Osman E. W.: Good. But pause
awhile before you plunge H.C. (Footscray) : The
barber has a chance for his cut. ...Renee K.: Mere
statement of environment... .E.F. (Melb.) : Apos-
trophe to the “dome of loveliness” has gone to its
rest John Falstaff: Why, what a slave art thou
to hack thy sword —anyway, you hacked the verses.
G.E.W.: Too long; and the humor is of the
hothouse variety Louburke: Painlessly destroyed.
....Alice M. L.: The inflection bangs on the rhyme
words like the beating of a drum. A sonnet should
run smoothly.... P.J.C.: Not since, in infancy, we
read “Froggy’s Little Brother” did we weep such
bitter . tears—especially over the part where the
waifs were “hungery”..... Alice J.: “Patterns” don’t
fit. .. .A.T.: The episode in the snow gave us cold
feet.. . .8.L.M.: When a story needs an appendix,
the only thing to do is to cut it out. .. .Cam D.: We
like this:—
Oh, sands of Fate! Oh, sands of time!
How oft I wisht with Thou to sleep,
Feeling so' oftentimes that I’m
A maggot on the hide of sheep.
. ... E.M.E.: Too much made of the detail; not enough
of the humor Daisy C.: “Oh, my ideal I do want
to meet.” Well, we’re not keeping him at this
office... .D.C.M.: Some of your lines are centipedes.
... .Geo. R. D.: Three thousand words are too many
to tell how someone lost his pants... .C.D.: A
solemn sort of joke 8.L.G.: If that’s humor, we
prefer a nice cheerful talk with an undertaker about
funerals... .Bill M.: If the cover is redder this week
than usual, it’s because of the blushes caused by
your story R.C. (Leichhardt) : The girl in the
moon will not shine in these pages. .. .M.L.L.: Mere
trifles... .O’Scot: Neither the interest nor the humor
there should be in it P. J.M.: You call your verse
“The Aching Void.” Quite right J.E.C.: The
dental monstrosity is not a good verse subject....
8.J.M.: The story of ’Arry is too ’ot H.W.H.:
What’s this longing to hear, in Australia, “the roar
of the old bull moose”?... .H.A.W.: Too faked....
8.5. M.: “But l gave in to her; I am full of the
milk of human kindness.” Fresh or condensed?....
Gerald H.: Pedantic style F.K.M.: Take, oh take,
those slips away ILL.: Your confiding mystery
story blabs on itself in the first ten lines. . . .Higher-
combe: No thanks! Not enough people want to be
made miserable for their sixpence.... Ricksha: Has
had a rough passage... .F.M.N.: We’ve got no affec-
tion at all for verse which we have to dig our way
through.... Old Fort Bourke: Don’t worry. For that
page we’d rather have the most mis-spelled experi-
ences of the practical man than the most beautifully-
typed screed of the armchair authority who has
just finished reading his 974th book on the subject.
R.G.H.: Too late Ross M.: Only an excep-
tional crush has pushed it aside. ..-W.G.D.: Quite
suitable ; but the space isn’t here.... Burrum: Ditto.
... .Malaita J.: Can’t get the hang of it. .. .Arbon:
Doesn’t ring true. And sincerity is the first of all
the literary virtues... .Norman C.: Nothing in it.
TO ARTISTIC (AND INARTISTIC)
CORRESPONDENTS.
J.L.W.: One glance at the beheaded knight was
enough... .E.F.: Dwarfs, and deformed at that....
M.F.P.: You’re sadly out of form... .O.B.: When you
fire squire and yokel gags at us you miss by 12,000
miles L.L.: Heaved out F.E.H.: Try again in
1932 5.8.: A sluggish policeman drawn by a
siothful artist .. . .H.W.T.: Your fowls are uninterest-
ing, if improper... .E.W.P.: Too complicated.
THE INKY WAY.
“Mudurup”: Even a couple of dropped
letters may make all the difference.. The
West Australian wound up a recent
account of a shivoo of the Royal Perth
Yacht Club with the information that “owing
to an unfortunate disposition the Governor
was unable to be present!”
“Eao-dah”: If alliterative headlines be-
came a disease (B. 4/8/’27), the man who
spread the infection was at least thorough.
On one occasion, when lie had been looking
on the wine when it was plentiful, Norton
picked up his chief reporter’s account of
the hanging of a rather pious murderer, and
found tlie story dull. Savagely dabbing his
pen into the inkwell. John proceeded to
write the titles beginning with “Jerked to
Jesus —24pt.”
“Ledraw”: I saw my first copy of The
Bulletin in an Indian Frontier outpost in
4881. Several copies ambled my way during
the Soudan racket, and jeoming to Australia in
1885 I have not missed half a dozen copies
since. The biggest pile that ever accumu-
lated for me I found waiting at Bourke when
I returned from a nine months’ droving
trip. The cartoon that impressed me most
during all those years, was the one repre-
senting the return of a Judge to N. S. Wales,
the welcome accorded him by the hangman
and the shadow of the gallows on the Quay.
“Murkah”: Most people know that Mar-
cus Clarke’s “Term of His Natural Life"
first appeared as a serial in the Australian
Journal, but probably few are aware that
it was dragged through the columns of that
periodical three times. Its reception was not
markedly favorable. Then a revulsion set
in and the Journal serialled the yarn again.
Soon afterwards the book appeared, consider-
ably shortened. Later, to oblige those who
knew only the book version, the original
screed was given another airing in the
Journal. Charles Gavan Duffy was respon-
sible for the revision that cut “The Term"
down to its present size.
“S.G.”: The Smith undertakings’ cam-
paign against greyhound racing is one of the
joys of Sydney journalism these days. Its
objections are many and various—-the crowds
get no comfort, the programmes are monoton-
ous, the prizes are poor, dogs are incorrectly
described, some of the decisions are question-
able, and there was a heartrending collision
between an unsuspecting hound and the tin
hare. The new craze is a deadly threat to
the noble sport of pony-racing, in which
Smith’s boss is interested; but that, of
course, has nothing to do with Smith’s zeal
for reform.
“P.X.” : “Hop” had an 81st birthday-party
a ween or two ago, and the friends who
crowded around him reminded him of this,
that and the other famous cartoon. As one
listened one formed the opinion, without
asking a direct question, that the three draw-
ings which “Hop” best likes to recall are
“I Thought I Had a Stamp,” “The Roll-
Call” and the one in which he said good-bye
to I’arkes —you remember the sad Little Boy
turning over the last page and shutting the
book. “Hop” had actually finished his prin-
cipal drawing for the week, when the death
of his and the paper’s old political opponent
was reported to him. He asked Archibald if
he would like something on the subject—
undertook to have it in. notwithstanding the
few hours available. What became of the
original nobody knows. Jack Want, the old
Q.C., begged for it; and while in his pos-
session it disappeared. The “I Thought 1
Had a Stamp” drawing was the first of the
three: in fact, though it was not printed till
“Hop” came to Australia, it was drawn just
before Traill discovered him and brought him
this way.
“Arawa”: While joining in the chorus <J
congratulations evoked by the diamond jubilee
of the Sydney Evening News. I should like
to correct the mis-statement that the News
was “Australia’s first afternoon paper.” A
little more than eight years before Sam
Bennett launched his first edition in 18G7.
the Sydney Evening Mail had blossmwd
forth * True, it wilted and died in three
months but at all events it represented the
first attempt to establish an evening daily
on this continent. A four-page sheet, the
Mail began its career in February, 1 B:>'J.
and went to press for the last time in the
following May on the re-appearance, as a
daily, of Henry Parkes’s old paper, the
Empire. Ceasing publication in August
ISSB the Empire resumed on May 20. looJ.
and battled along until 1875. when it became
incorporated with this Evening News.
NEWS.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
A little cap of cobweb lace,
A nigntie, just a wisp of silk,
Soft tumbled hair, a rosy face,
A bare round shoulder white as milk—
Miranda breakfasting in bed
Would turn St. Antony his head.
And as she sips her China tea,
She scans the headlines, greedy-eyed,
Murder and loud catastrophe
The things that leave her gratified;
As dainty as a fairy song,
She loves Sensation hot and strong.
All that is sad and mad and bad
She hails in glaring print displayed.
Two aeroplanes have crashed —they add
A relish to her marmalade.
A fire where human beings roast
Makes crisper every strip of toast.
Finest of all, a fought divorce,
Tl u: veil withdrawn from sordid sin,
A keen K.C.. sharp-tongued and coarse,
Who makes the hardened ushers grin—
Such reading is a sheer delight
To young Miranda, lily white.
But when lhe pages tell of thought,
Of commerce, great discoveries,
Of statesmanship, of battles fought
By scientists against disease,
Miranda pettishly will say:
“There’s nothing in the news to-day.”
VICTORIA.
RIKKI T.


’»■* ■
SHELL
X
%rSP
A,,,,
cwi m
* !
*>trm
'• N
m
m
r«'
■ r
HP"
nC
TUB BRITISH IMPERIAL OIL COMPANY LIMITED - THROUGHOUT AUSTRALIA AND NEW ZEALAND
*337
'T'HE exacting, up -to - schedule
running of Australian Aerial
Services Ltd. is faithfully carried
out on Shell Motor Spirit the
same as you get from the kerb-
side pump. Thousand after thou-
sand, the miles are covered with
mail-train regularity, and all the
time Shell is on the job supplying
the never - failing power for this
dependable Service.
The Record of
Australian Aerial Services
Limited
Miles Flown « • 428,783.
Averaging 66 miles per hour,
including stops.
Passenger Journey* • • 6,396.
Freight & Mails carried 71,292 lb*.
Shell Spirit and Oil are used
exclusively.
Australia's most popula » Spirit —
The Standard of the World.
Macmillan’s
NEW BOOKS.
The prices advertised are those at which the
books are published in London. Prices outside
the British Isles must be fixed by the importing
bookseller.
The Statesman’s Year Book
for 1927.
Edited by M. EPSTEIN, M.A., Ph.D.
With Maps. 20s. net.
The Daily Mail : “Just as up-to-date, as
accurate, and as full of information about every
country as ever.”
MACMILLAN’S EMPIRE LIBRARY.
NEW VOL.
The Absolute at Large.
A Fantastic Story.
By KAREL CAPEK, Author of
“R.U.R.,” “The Insect Play,” etc.
The Evening Standard: “Scientific men some-
times give us a glimpse of what may happen
when man can harness the atom. Karel
Capek has gone farther and envisioned a world
in which atomic energy, having been harnessed,
first provides mankind with a new religion
and then sets all the world at war. it is a
disturbing vision as well as a fine piece of
satire.”
Great English Churchmen Series.
Edited by SIDNEY DARK, 6s. net ea.
THOMAS ARNOLD.
By Rev. R. J. CAMPBELL, D.D.
ST. THOMAS OF CANTERBURY.
By SIDNEY DARK.
THOMAS CRANMER.
By Rev. ANTHONY C. DEANE,
M.A., Hon. Canon of Worcester
Cathedral.
ARCHBISHOP LAUD.
By S. A. DUNCAN-JONES.
JOHN WESLEY.
By the Very Rev. W. H. HUTTON,
D.D., Dean of Westminster.
Send for prospectus.
A Treatise on Viticulture.
By A. I. PEROLD, 8.A., Ph.D., Pro-
fessor of Viticulture and Oenology in
the University of Stellenbosch, illus-
trated. 255. net.
The Farmer's Weekly, Sth. Africa: “The
clearness of exposition and the numerous illus-
trations in regard to propagation, grafting, prun-
ing, etc., go to make a very complete and
admirable guide to the whole subject, which
includes the manufacture of vinegar, syrups
and the production of raisins, currants, etc.”
To be Obtained from all
Booksellers.
M ACM iLLAN & CO. L I D.
Melbourne & London, w.c.s.
Our New Covered Bed Machines-
Alfred Herbert Hexagon
Turret Lathes
If you have to produce articles from the bar, castings
or forgings, it will pay you to consult us on the best
methods of production.
Having specialised for many years in Turret Lathe
Work, we can advise you on the selection of equip-
ment to combine efficiency with economy.
On receipt of particulars of work to be done we
will quote for Machines, Tools and Fixtures and give
guarantees of production.
Alfred Herbert
(Australasia), Limited,
503-505 Kent Street, Sydney
Telephones: nr i i atuf?
City 10109. 10110. Te, ' grams: LATHE -
Branch Office, Melbourne.
MICK SIMMONS’
Dependable
Shooting
Equipment
Famous Guns and Rifles
Known to all Good
Sportsmen!
No. 16.
THE CEIiT. CO.’S D.B.B.L. GUN,
12 gauge, steel barrels, left choke, ex-
tension rib, bar locks, pistol grip, plain
finish; weight about £3/17/6
71b.
(Carriage Paid.)
No. 17.—THE “CERT.” GUN. as
above, but with X-bolt .. £4/5/-
( Carriage Paid.)
25
No
B.S.A. D.B. HAMMERLESS SHOT
GUN, 12 gauge, 30in. barrels, both
choke, nitro proof, fluid-compressed
steel barrels, automatic safety j£1 C
pistol grip; weight about 6|lb.
(Carriage Paid.)
No. 12.
WINCHESTER R E P E A T I N O
RIFLE, 1906 MODEL, 22cal., 10
shot. 20in. round barrel, plain trigger,
straight grip, ladder rear sights,
slide action; magazine holds l->
short, 12 long, or 11 long rifle cart-
ridges ; weight about £4/10/-
511b.
(Carriage Paid.)
No. 25.
REMINGTON HAMMERLESS RE-
PEATING RIFLE, MODEL 12a,
92 calibre, solid breech, side ejector,
straight grip, 22in. round barrel :
handles 15 short, 12 long, or 11 long
rifle cartridges: adjustable rear and
open front sights; £4/17/6
weight 4Jib.
(Carriage Paid.)
V
No. 10
TNCI1ESTER SINGLE - SHOl
RIFLE. 1904 MODEL, for 22 short,
long or long rifle rim-fire cartridges;
21 in. heavy round steel barrel, plain
trigger, bolt action, ladder rear sight
and plain front sight; length of rifle
over all 37-lin., weight about AO/Q
41b
(Postage: 1/9: Other States. .5/2.)
No. 5
STEVENS’ “FAVORITE- RIFLE. 22,
25 or 32 calibres. R.F.. round 24m.
barrel, case-hardened frame, solid
breech block, take-down action, open
front and sporting rear AAI-
sights ; weight 411b
(Postage 1/9; Other States, 3/2).
GUN AND RIFLE REPAIRS.
A fully qualified armourer handles
your damaged Gun or Rifie.
Charges are the lowest 'prevailing in
Sydney.
THE SHOOTING CATALOGUE.
A complete price list of Mick Simmons'
extensive stocks.
COPY POST, FREE.
Mick Simmons, Ltd.
Headquarters: 720 HAYMARKET,
SYDNEY.
“Australia’s Largest Distributors
of Firearms.”


Showing one of the twenty-two die-
east metal units which house the
entire eighty-eigh t calves in the
Wurlitscr Metal Action.
The Importance of the Metal Action in
&/> e «
WURUIZE*
PLAYEF
PIANO
With the introduction of the Wurlitzer metal action —Player Piano performance takes on an e
new meaning. , > n t t u r .
Wood, however carefully chosen and treated, cannot defy the influences of climatic changes V ' ,
special non-corrosive metal alloy from which the Wurlitzer metal action is made is positively u
by the most extreme climatic conditions. . . ■ f ,>n
The importance of this lies in the fact that the player action is a highly sensitive piece ot i - -
which depends the whole worth of the instrument.
The precision of “Wurlitzer” mechanism, the beauty of “Wurlitzer” tone, is
built on a foundation that ensures the greatest possible satisfaction.
PERM AN ENT fa cto r
PRINCIPAL “WURLITZER” ACL XT'S:
NEW SOUTH WALES: Metropolitan Distributors—Coronola Sales, Ltd., Daking House, Rawson Place, Sydney.
NEWCASTLE: M. Light & Son, Ltd., Newcastle and Cessnock.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA: The Australian Implement and House Furnishing Co., Adelaide.
WEST AUSTRALIA: Musgroves’ Ltd., Murray Street, Perth.
TASMANIA: Findlay’s Pty., Ltd., 63-65 George Street, Launceston.
VICTORIA: Myer’s Emporium Ltd., Melbourne. ~. .
Where any difficulty is experienced in procuring a “Wurlitzer,” communicate direct with the factory represen an e.
Parker, Blau & Co., Ltd.,
8 O’CONNELL STREET. SYDNEY.
308 FLINDERS LANE, MELBOURNE.
SUNDRY SHOWS.
SYDNEY sip.tVS full CUMING WEEK.
Her Majesty’s “M.nlame Pompadour”
Criterion “The Road to Rome”
Royal “The Ringer”
Palace “Mary Stuart”
St. James “Lady, Be Good”
Empire “The Student Prince”
Tivoli Vaudeville
MELBOURNE SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Ills Majesty's “Rose Marie”
King’s “Cradle Snatchers”
Royal “Tip Toes”
Athenaeum “Outward Bound’
Palace “The Sheik”
Tivoli Vaudeville
Majestic Moving Pictures
Hoyt’s Moving Pictures
Mysterious signal lights, hands that
appear through wall panellings and
shadowy figures peering through windows
are keeping audiences in a thrilled and ex-
clamatory condition at the Sydney Royal
where Maurice Moseovitch introduced “The
Linger” last Saturday night. If Edgar Wal-
lace, the playwright, had made his hero com-
mit his intended murder with more prompti-
tude an interesting night’s entertainment
would have been missed ; but it is only good
acting that saves some of the piled-up myster-
ies from being ridiculous. The Ringer, albeit
a thoroughly well-meaning murderer, is un-
popular with the police. His return, after
his supposed death by drowning in Sydney
Harbor, perturbs them intensely and has
the same effect on sundry backsliders from
the path of strict criminal virtue. One
of them, a crook lawyer and fence named
Meister, has wronged The Ringer’s sister,
and been the indirect cause of her suicide,
which clearly points to him as the reason
for the master-murderer’s return. The
audience is kept guessing about which one of
several characters is the mysterious Ringer,
even after Meister has been killed on a
darkened stage, until the melodramatic end
is reached. It seems a fair thing to allow
audiences to discover the solution of the
tangle of mysteries for themselves; there
is certainly dramatic skill in the swift
working of the denouement in a way that
renders no dragging explanation necessary.
2* =1: 2= 2=
Maurice Moseovitch presents a satisfying
repulsive Meister. Nat Madison, as the
cockney crook, Sam Ilackett, provides
good comedy with a really neat bit of
character work. Patric Curwen, a Scotch
police surgeon with an accent frae Aber-
deen, and Ashton Jarry (he went away to
S. Africa with Bates Post and is hereby
welcomed back), as the unpleasaut Central-
Detective-Inspector Bliss, are two of the
others most concerned in the development of
mystery. Reginald Newson, as Detective-
Inspector Wcmbury, provides, with the some-
what over-chirrupy Mary Macgregor, the
minor love interest—it is subordinate to the
passion of Cora Ann Milton, wife of the
mysterious Ringer. Eileen Sparkes plays
this part with considerable spirit. George
Blunt makes the most of the character-
comedy in the part of Station-Sergeant
Carter, and Raymond Lawrence is reason-
able as the duped John Linley. The Mel-
bourne repertory girl, Kiore King, helps the
comedy side with a lively, if slightly exag-
gerated, picture of the drunken Mrs. Hackett.
Harold Watch, consistently good in Syd-
ney Repertory productions, reached high-
water mark in his representation of Tommy
Whistler, Cockney ex-soldier and racing
tout, in “Jacob’s Ladder” at the Palace
Theatre on Saturday night. Tommy con-
veys to David Maxton an adjuration from
the dead ex-soldier Jimmy Merritt to put
his money on an outsider for a forthcoming
race. Maxton, who has been given by the
doctors only three months to live and
is set on finishing an epic poem and pro-
viding for his family before he passes, is
convinced that the supernatural message is
the right oil, and wins £22,000 from a
bookie who has genially suggested that lie
must be a certified lunatic to back such a
horse. Thereat the resolute and lucky
genius (capably played by R. E. Dickinson)
chucks his newspaper job and completes Ills
life’s work. All this is easier to swallow
than the caddishness of the apparently
decent Captain Blazeby, who shakes
hands with his war-time comrade daily while
carrying on a liaison with the latter’s wife.
It takes Blazeby (Hawdon Wilson) two years
to decide that it is the right thing to clear
out. Alethea Maxton is the type of petu-
lant female with whom men of talent,
both real and reputed, arc sometimes plagued :
Mrs. Holroyde displayed the wife’s cold-
ness and estrangement well and was very
effective in the role of penitent when she
confesses her fault to David, not knowing
that liq has died in his chair. The high-
spirited daughter is well-played by Miss
Beryl Lyuex; the garrulous worshipper of
genius. Mrs. Dorrincourt. is rather over-acted
by J. E. Campbell; Ralph Sliiress presents
Lord Nevcrn, the newspaper proprietor who
throws about spectacular offers of salary;
and Mrs. Betty Grigson makes the sort of
maid who is indispensable in every well-
conducted household. The Repertory Society
changes its bill to Drinkwater’s “Mary
Stuart” on Saturday.
At the Conservatorium to-morrow night,
Arthur Greenaway will ask a group of
Sydney Grammar School students, disguised
as Roman citizens, to lend him their ears.
Also on Saturday and Monday.
This afternoon (Thursday) Madame
Frances Alda starts her Australian season
at the Sydney Town Hall.
Sydney will be introduced next Saturday
to a new leading lady, Margaret Lawrence,
who is to bring “The Road to Rome” to the
boards of the Criterion, from which “The
Ghost Train” will be shunted after to-
morrow (Friday) night’s performance. The
play is a semi-satirical effort in which the
Carthaginian soldiers who sit down with
Hannibal before the walls of Rome are made
to talk like combatants in 1914-IS. The
splendors of “Madame Pompadour” are to be
removed in another fortnight from Her
Majesty’s to make room for “Ruddigore”
—staged for the first time in Sydney. “The
Student Prince” is running harmoniously at
the Empire, and “Lady, Be Good” is making
lots of friends at the St. .Tames. At the
Grand Opera House “Not To-night, Dearie”
will apparently last out the rest of Frank
Neil’s season. Nellie Brantley is to re-
appear here before August ends.
2= 2= 2s 2=
At the Tivoli this week arrived Edith
Clifford with a bunch of songs from the
London ’alls which she has been singing on
American circuits. The transplanted humor
went over as well in Sydney as it did in
N’Yark, and the audience liked the lady. A
quartette of light-tan Americans did orches-
tral things with their voices, preserving
harmony, apparently, by instinct, whereas
the Nordic strain has to be trained that
way. Musically their show was a delight.
The performing apes, Akka, Max and Moritz,
chased by a couple of American efficiency
experts, vindicated Darwin, and Cornalla and
Eddie took a tip from Arnold Bennett’s
novel “The Card” and drew laughs by break-
ing crockery.
* 2s 2= 2s
Last Saturday Stiffy and Mo slipped into
good society at Fullers’ Theatre, Sydney;
they are remaining there all this week with-
out any marked improvement being percept-
ible in their own manners. Amy Rochelle
continues to awaken enthusiasm, and to pro-
duce some notes reminiscent of a siren; the
Charleston Band remains popular.
Hoyt’s have struck a good picture in
“Lovers?” a film presentation of the stage
play “The World and His Wife.” The pro-
ducer has curbed the usual tendency to
cumber the story with superfluities for pic-
ture effect, and it is to he hoped that he
will have imitators. “For the Term of His
Natural Life,” at the Crystal Palace, is
providing the best sort of proof that there
is profit in local production : and “Ben Hur”
“MADAME POMPADOUR;’ AT
HER MAJESTY’S, SYDNEY.
Calicot (Arthur Stigant) discusses life
under a pension with Mariette (Vera
Spaull).
wins his spectacular chariot race twice a
day at the Prince Edward. The work of
the orchestra at this house is the best in
town.
2= 2- 2=
The Royalists have their show:—
This year’s exhibition of the Royal Art Society
at the Education Department’s Gallery (Sydney)
shows an increasing general strength, the number of
pictures which should have been omitted (once a
formidable feature) having been reduced to a few
which leave one wondering how the devil they got
there. Lister Lister’s “The Road by the Sea” (No.
15) is a thoroughfare one would like to travel,
warmed by the glowing sunshine that lies upon it.
This picture stands out; “The Passing Shower” and
some other contributions by (he same artist merely
please. There is clever work in Charles Bryant s
“A French Breeze” (No. 120), the silvery aspect of
water and background being ingeniously produced.
“Tranquillity” (No. 17), by John Banks, has a
charm of its own; and there should be no cavil at
the 300 guineas paid by the National Gallery trustees
for Charles- Wheeler’s effective nude “Noon Dreams”
(No. 18). There is an increase in the nudes; better
than several by G. Lyall Trindall is his “Daughter
of Ra,” wherein the lady, rudely turning her back,
shows off an exquisitely treated decorative shawl, her
half-averted face being reflected in a hand-mirror.
What Sid Long shows is good and stimulating, par-
ticularly “The Lake.”
There are several resurrections of the last Archi-
bald exhibition, the well-charactered, alert
MELBOURNE
AUDITORIUM.
Ignaz Friedman, the Polish -pianist.
George Finey of J. 8. Watkins being- the best. With
a slight departure from actual portraiture, Fred
Leist scores with a compelling picture of Miss
Althea Glasby in “The Witch Ball’’ (No. 12) and
a more colorful portrait of the same lady (No. 20),
“The Ormolu Table” (No. 99) is an elaborate
bit of still, spoilt by a slight error in perspective,
by A. K. Maiden. Apparently a lot of artists have
horticultural tastes; Alesse G. Kane has sent along
some nicely paintedhydrangea; Hedley Parsons’s
“Autumn Roses” (No. 94) and 0. Gertrude Wil-
liams’s “Roses and Plumbago” are agreeable offerings.
W. A. Bowring’s effective wet-day view of
“Old Chelsea Church, London” (No. 8), Buckmaster’s
dainty “Glass and China” (No. 31), Erik Langker’s
“Sailing Boats—Sydney Harbor” (No. 43), and Louis
McCubbin’s “In a Mountain Gully” are all items
that merit mention. In “The 16th Hole,” W. A.
Bowi-ing has caught a party of golf amateurs on
whom the mildew of evening has fallen; and in
Theo Grimanes’s “In Blackwattle Bay” furled sails
look as if they might be snow miraculously fallen on
spars and booms. Dattilo Rubbo has several con-
scientiously drawn but uninspired pictures, and Sal-
vana overworks his method of stark, red light.
The “Bush Road” of M. J. McNally and several
exhibits by C. E. S. Tindall enrich the water-color
section; a studio corner by Pearl Sheldon —one of
several studies marred by formality—leaves an un-
certainty about what the smudgy things on the
open door are meant to be. A Long etching, “Land-
scape, Buckinghamshire,” is one of the most likeable
things in a very limited black-and-white section:
John Flanagan has two drawings, one of them look-
ing very like an illustration for the sort of American
magazine which requires its hero to be square-
chinned and spectacularly built. There are contri-
butions by T. Freidensen, A. M. Parsons, M. M.
McConaghy, A. H. Fullwood, D. G. Reid, W. M.
Whitney, Lloyd Rees and a couple of others which
are worth more than a quick glance.
Two other Sydney shows: —
At the studios of the Misses Oldfield, 76 Pitt-
street, W. T. Furlong is exhibiting a group of war
pictures. They have been painstakingly prepared
from the records of the Battle of Jutland and other
affrays in which battleships and shells hit up the
water, and include a view of the Landing at Galli-
poli. Such historic interest as they may possess
obviously outweighs their artistic merits.
Although Howard Ashton dearly loves to dip the
blue bag in his seas and rub it over his distances, he
has all the craft and artistic outlook which enables
him to use the color effectively. His show at the
Macquarie Galleries contains only 23 oils and seven
pastels, but every one is worth looking at. There
is refreshing boldness in the big canvas, “Blue Moun-
tain Steeps” (No. 1) ; the mighty bluff in the fore-
ground rising from the admirable distances of big
hills suggests the immensity of the sweep into the
unseen valley. An “Adelaide Landscape” with a
bright effect of the pall of sunlight upon the oppos-
ing hillside has been bought by the Commonwealth Art
Advisory Board -for Canberra. “Kangaroo Talley,
from Belmore Falls,” is a finely wrought composition
of spreading valley and distance; and two particu-
larly likeable pictures are a vivid “Hillside, Robert-
son,” and; “Towards Lake Illawarra.” Amongst the
pastels the “Nightpiece in Green” is a gem.
As forecasted by The Bulletin’s weather
bureau in Melbourne, siroccos commenced
to blow at the Palace on Saturday. At the
matinee one of the persons in charge of the
duststorm was drawn into the machinery
and lost portion of his pants, but there
was enough synthetic sand poured on to the
stage to convince anyone that the scoun-
drelly Mustapha Ali (Walter Dyer), his
band of desperadoes in striped pyjamas and
the two real camels, had been satisfactorily
buried; also that there was just the right
amount of desert flying through the air for the
pretty yellow-haired heroine with the county
accent and the unaccountable philosophy
(Kathleen Pickard) to be invisible to her
friends but easily discoverable by a lynx-eyed
local chieftain. As a fact, the dust-storm
was a very well-conceived illusion, even if it
did suggest a giant maid-of-all-work sweep-
ing Little Bourke-street into the theatre;
and the tent scene was an intelligent study
of a book sheik’s week-end desert resi-
dence. Ahmed ben Robert Ginns, who dares
anything in a low-necked blouse, dazzle-
painted riding-boots, jewel-encrusted breeches,
what looks like a red tea-caddy on his head,
and a bright bedspread flowing from his
shoulders, also came up to the same exacting
standards. Rutland Beckett, as the dis-
tasteful Ornair, picked his teeth with Ids
nails and committed his saturnine assault
on the sadly man-handled heroine in a
mixture of plus-fours and Arab finery, much
spitting and other refinements of Oriental
amour. The scene which he disgraced was
the most thrilling of the lot. Leslie Laurier
as Peter Arbuthnot lost his fiancee to the
Sheik at the top of his voice and with
much inexplicable hilarity. All the rest
were as lifelike as anything in Mrs. E. M.
Hull’s world-famous story. As far as it
goes, and it never goes too far, the Sheik
is a satisfactory night’s entertainment.
2= Jji 2=
Ignaz Friedman, a stoutish man in a
tonsure and round spectacles, with a round
gentle face behind them, sat down on a heavy
antique chair at Melbourne Auditorium on
Saturday and drew strains from a piano
which were unique as far as the present
writer’s experience goes. The piano was
Friedman’s own, but that isn’t supposed to
have much to do with it. The uniqueness
lay in the consistent singing quality of
almost every note. The Pole’s plump fingers
seem to have the power of turning the
sternest chord into a pleasant song. At any
rate, his first programme was adapted for
displaying that side of his temperament and
technique.' It began with Mozart’s Rondo in
A Minor, a piece not deep but full of cool,
calculated happiness. The next number was
Beethoven’s Andante Furori, which was
taken at great speed but without a sign of
perspiration. Then came the Rondo in E
Flat Major by Hummel, who sat at Mozart’s
feet. A tray of Chopin’s sweetmeats and
the Campanile bells of Paganini-Liszt filled
out the evening; the only indiscretion was
25 variations and a fugue on a theme of
Handel, by the monumental Brahms. This
kind of composition is like seeing how many
ways one can write “The ploughman home-
ward plods his weary way.”
Dame Melba’s voice has definitely de-
parted. Time the wrecker is here —or rather
has been here and moved on to fresh depre-
dations elsewhere, leaving a once commodious
and splendid edifice with hardly one brick
standing on another. That was the fact,
despite the guarded panegyrics of the dailies,
that stuck out of the diva’s plucky and good-
natured intrusion into the hesitating Zim-
balist season at Melbourne Auditorium last
week. All the same, the merry lady’s plat-
form manner remains unimpaired, and a
house packed with vice-regal potentates as
well as some ordinary people seemed to get
more than their money’s worth from that.
So the Russian’s stay ended in a blaze of
reflected glory when it should have flourished
on his own high merits. Unfortunately he
was .sandwiched in between another fiddler
and a pianist, by one of the little ironies of
Tail.
“Cradle Snatchers,” at Melbourne King's,
is a funny—sometimes desperately funny—
American version of the Parisian bedroom
farce without the bedroom. That good old
stock prop, is, however, present by innuendo.
In the first act it is reported just over
the horizon, while in the second it is expected
at any moment. In the third it is heard
descending the grand central staircase, so
to speak; but at the final curtain it is seen
to be a figment of the audience’s naughty
imagination. The story is conventional
enough. Three middle-aged women restore
their flapper-chasing husbands to their sides
by the faded expedient of inviting three young
men to pretend to compromise them. The
humor lies in the American idiom and the
wealth of innuendo aforesaid. It isn’t the
shining rapier of wit that stings the hearer
into laughter, but the double meanings land-
ing on his solar plexus. Olive Sloan is a
tower of strength to the eradle-snatdhers.
She has the full equipment of an all-round
(Continued on Page 5-J.)


CH
IMPORTANT
ANNOUNCEMENT
Reports have been circulated throughout Australia that the
Chrysler Sales Corporation of Detroit, U.S. A,, is to be amah
gamated with another large American motor car corporation.
This statement is absolutely without foundation and emphati-
cally denied by Mr. W. P. Chrysler in the following cable
sent by him to the Chrysler Manager for Australia:
ABSOLUTELY NOTHING
CHRYSLER IS
?LEASE
GIVE
TO
BE I NG
OR
TH I S
RUMOR
ABSORBED
ANYONE
WIDEST
THAT
BY
ELSE
publicity
* P CHRYSLER
5 30ACKN
CH
IN THREE YEARS CHRYSLER SALES HAVE RISEN FROM 27th TO 4th PLACE
AUSTRALIAN AND NEW ZEALAND DISTRIBUTORS.
N.S.W.: Larke Neave & Carter Ltd., Grenville House, William Street, Sydney.
Vic.: Collins Motors Pty., Ltd., Chrysler House, Collins Street, Melbourne.
Qld.: Ward Motors Limited, Wickham Street, Brisbane.
Sth. Aust.i O. T. Rodda Motors Ltd., Flinders Street, Adelaide.
West. Aust.: William Attwood, 299-301 Murray Street, Perth.
Tas.: Distributors Pty., Ltd., 162 Collins Street, Hobart.
N.Z.: Todd Motor Company, 97 Courtenay Place, Wellington •


The “WILD CAT” MONTHLY for August
NOW ON SALE, PRICE 2/-
CONTAINS REVIEWS OF—
ALLEN TAYLOR & CO.
ASSURANCE & THRIFT ASSOCI-
ATION.
AUST. BANK OF COMMERCE.
ATJST. GLASS MANUFACTURERS
CO.
ATJST. METROPOLITAN LIFE
ASSURANCE GO-
AUST. PROVINCIAL ASSURANCE.
AUTOMOBILE & GENERAL
FINANCE.
C.A.S.E.
CASTLE SALT CO-OP. CO.
EDWARDS, DUNLOP & CO.
FAIRYMEAD SUGAR CO.
GOODLET & SMITH, LTD.
h. mckenzie, ltd.
MALLEY’S, LTD.
MARCHANT’S, LTD.
MARK FOY’S, LTD.
MT. MORGAN GOLD MINING 00.
NORTH COAST STEAM NAVIGA-
TION CO.
PACIFIC INSURANCE CO.
QUEENSLAND NATIONAL
BANK.
QUEENSLAND TRUSTEES.
ROBERT HARPER & CO.
-SWALLOW & ARIELL, LTD.
SWAN BREWERY CO., LTD.
(PERTH. W.A.).
TYLDESLEY COLLIERY.
WALTER REID & COl
A Market Guide for Investors. Tin Mining Reports.
NO INVESTOR, BIG OR LITTLE, CAN AFFORD TO MISS THIS ISSUE
comic lady, including a slow, wide smile and
a variety of temperaments, with reminiscen-
ces of Ada Reeve. Bertha Belmore, as a
prude, strangely virginal in manner for a
long-married woman, is almost as funny.
None of the others fall below a remarkably
high average.
After six more nights at Melbourne
Majesty's "Rose Marie” will be off the
bill of fare. The only persons who haven’t
seen it are nightwatchmeu and curates un-
able to raise the price of a civilian suit.
"Frasquita” died melodiously but unregar-
ded at the Royal on Saturday. After giving
the Vic. Opera Company five nights in which
to revive "Florodora,” this theatre will
try “Tip Toes,” a musicomedy garnished
with Gershwin music. Thurza Rogers,
hitherto accepted as merely a very charming
little dancer, will show if she can sing and
act the title-role as well. The noises made
by Joe Aronson’s synco-symphonists continue
to attract appreciative audiences to the
Tivoli, where Sid Beck laughs like a ripe fig
and the Old-Time Minstrels are still head-
liners.
Melbourne lias at last discovered that
"Outward Bound,” at the Athenaeum, is in
accordance with the advt., “the most enthral-
ling and fascinating play,”’ if not of this
generation, at any rate of the present season.
“The Argus at Work” provides the Aus-
tralian quota at Melbourne Majestic this
week, and ihe pictures that talk are in a
third series. The happiness of a married
couple is being threatened —but not seriously
—by the demon Jealousy in "Stolen Plea-
sures,” and that popular animal, .Tack Lon-
don's “Sea Wolf,” is raging in between.
" Venus of Venice,” at Hoyt’s, gives Con-
stance Talmadge, encrusted with diamonds
and voluptuousness, the opportunity to show
that she is still one of the cleverest ghosts
on the screen.
* * s!= *
A five nights' revival of “Florodora” was
begun at the Melbourne Royal on Monday
night by the Victorian Opera Company. The
honors of the urst night went, to the chorus
and Mason Wood as Tweedlepunch. Allea
Fleming Dunstan was a dainty and tuneful
Lady IJolyrood, and Frances Lea as Dolores,
John D. Sullivan as Abercocd, Adeline
Nicola as Angela, and Albert Turner all
did good work. The famous “Tell Me, Pretty
Maiden” number displayed the lasses in
modern frocks of hive taffeta and crinoline-
millinery.
* :J:
Melbourne Art: —
Doubts arise sometimes ns to whether women are
the best exponents of the Universal Kid. The art
of Ethel Spowers at the New Gallery is graceful but
sexless, and sometimes even boneless, and one feels,
in looking at it, that a couple of Norman Lindsay
children would be a welcome if vulgar intrusion.
Still, Miss Spowers has a nice clean nervous line
arid her faces are frequently threatened with char*-
acter; her woodcuts are distinctly clever and her
colored ’scapes fashioned out of the humble lino are
really beautiful.
«# * *
Tlie Theatre Royal, Adelaide, is feeding
its patrons with pictures pending the arrival
of “Rose Marie” on August 20. “The Waltz
Dream,” the film adaptation of Oscar
Strauss’s famous operetta, is the best dish
on the menu. At the Prince of Wales
Theatre Muriel Starr is making a hit with
“Cornered.” At West’s, “For the Term of
His Natural Life” is in its second week:
some people reckon it ought to be screened
at the Stockade to make the prisoners more
appreciative of the new penology. At the
Wonder graph Richard Dix provides enter-
taining comedy in “Paradise for Two” as
tlie debonair Steve, who persuades Sally,
played by pretty P.etty Bronson, to pretend
to be his wife in order to satisfy bis uncle
Howard. The Majestic is presenting a capi-
tal vaudeville bill. Stud Foley’s Follies are
proving a trump card in higli-class revue,
Lulla Fanning is an all-round favorite,
Emmie Ensor is a clever dancer and the
Eleven Rascals contribute a unique turn.
At tlie York “Fashions for Women” includes
a mannequin parade in Paris. Esther Ral-
ston is in the leading role. “An Affair of
the Follies” deals with New York life. At
King’s Trixie Wilson’s vaudeville company
is putting on performances in aid of charity
carnival funds.
“Cine Ma” : When If. G. Wells wrote his
“Outline of History” he didn't know that ho
was writing the longest movie scenario in
existence. A British film company is now
engaged on the picturisation of the story of
the world, much on the lines of the Wellsian
work. Scenes will be shot in London,
Egypt and the Mediterranean, and the de-
velopment of the tremendous theme, which
will take a year and cost £120,000, will be
in the hands of a,competent historian, Prof.
A. M. Lowe.
Poverty
Point
ST. ANTHONY IN A PAINT-SHOP.
“So Christie it the first model you've ever kissed, eh?”
“Yes.”
“Cm, and how many had you before she came?”
“Four—a tomato, tWo pineapples, and a pot of flowers.”
“Hamfat.” : Emelie Polini, dead in U.S.,
came of a theatrical family. Her father,
<;. M. Polini, was well known as a stage-
manager; he died 11 years ago. Her sister
Marie, who made her first appearance in
Wilson Barrett's “The Sign of the Cross/’
at London Lyric, is the wife of Owen Nares.
Emelie started her career at 16. The Taits
booked her for Australia when she was play-
ing lead in “Yes, or No?” in New York.
Her opening in Sydney in 1918 was in “Do
Luxe Annie.” She came for six months and
stayed for years, and when she returned
to the stage after a brief experience of matri-
mony her welcome from the Firm was as
enthusiastic as that from the public. Emel-
ie’s legal fight to secure the custody of
the child —the Court held that the baby was
better off with its paternal grandparents than
in the care of a lady involved in theatrical
engagements —added some legal and political
history to the fame of an actress who always
contrived to impress her audiences with the
belief that she really felt the anguish she
portrayed.
“Curtain Raiser”: There is no need to lie
downhearted about Australian pictures, lake
the case of “The Blue Mountain Mystery
plot by Harrison Owen. After a good run in
this country it emigrated to U.S.A., and that
land embraced it like a Little Brother. Then
its promoters, the Carrolls, almost forgot
about it until they got a cheque for a
thousand-odd from London. John Bull says
he likes it fine.
“Goldilocks”: The splendor of Frances
Alda’s return with mountains of luggage
recalled a meeting with Madame Simonsen,
her grandmother and first teacher. My in-
terview concerned a concert-touring party
which the old lady had in view; we met in
the parlor at the back of a tobacconist s
saloon over which she had taken lodgings
in dingy Devonsliire-street, Sydney. Those
were days of small salaries and actual
poverty, but an amiable, unashamed Bohem-
ianism, which had some pleasant points,
and they belong to little more than 20 years
ago.
“Caul Boy”: If anybody with a wireless
ear had been watching “Rose Marie’’ at His
Majesty’s, Melbourne, one recent night, he
would have heard other voices besides Har-
riet Bennet’s and Reginald Dandy’s singing
the familiar airs and in a different tongue.
Holland was broadcasting the play.
“Lath”: “Doghouse” asks (B. 28/7/’27)
whether anyone remembers Frank Weston.
I spent a week-erj with him at a little
township in Yorke Peninsula (S.A.) some
thirty years ago: his name was plastered
all over the big
ca s e which con-
tained his banjo. I
found him a plea-
sa n t companion
with a fund of
witty stories. He
had great faith in
the virtues of his
oil. but business
had been bad and
he was making a
reappearance in
liis old line.
“Cine Ma' ! : The
Vic. Film Quota
Act being a month
o 1 d, I went the
ro u n d s of Mel-
bourne filmansions
to note the effect.
In one large house
they were running
off the requisite
1000 feet of Aus-
tralian film in the
form of scenery be-
fore the real per-
formance began.
In none of the
others was local
drama being
show n ; one was
resting on its lau-
rels on the strength
of having exceeded
its ration three
weeks before. The
Act badly needs
tightening up. It
did not stipulate
the nature of the
stuff to be shown;
consequently firms
treated it with con-
tempt and fished
out of their store-
rooms old and spot-
ted “scenics” whose
leading characters,
bein g gum-trees,
were certain not. to
offend the lovers of
foreign film stars.
Also, it did not pro-
vide, like the Bri-
tish Act, for a
steadily increasing
quota as Australian
picture-makers ex-
pand their output.
In fact, if the com-
panics which have sprung up recently are
depending ori the law as it stands, they are
leaning on a broken reed.
“Black Out” : Eileen Sparkes, playing with
Moscoviteh in “The Ringers,” had her first
chance in melodrama. Jefferson Tait dis-
covered her as a stage-struck kid in New-
castle. He urged Phil Lytton to take her
up, and. later, won her her first long city
engagement—in Brisbane under C. E. King.
When King sent for her she asked for a
salary that amazed him. “Why,” he said,
showing her wire to Tait, she wants the
world.” “Give it to her,” was Tait’s reply.
“She’s worth it.”
“M.G.S.”: Professor Wallace, the man
who is endeavoring to civilise the movies,
has been criticised for curbing the anxiety
of a recent Melbourne film to portray the
nude. He was probably quite right. Why
do the movie people imagine that nudity is
peculiarly a subject for the screen? The
camera lens is congenitally a wowser. Its
hard stare exposes nature in all her insuf-
ficiency. Painters have used their wives as
models without causing offence. A photo-
grapher who did likewise 'tvould land himself
in the police-court. Australian picture-pro-
ducers would be well advised to leave the
altogether female to the only people compe-
tent to deal with her.
“G.A.P.” (Loud.) : A story is going tin
rounds concerning a diva, known in Australia
and a Scotch tenor. The lady had been get-
ting all the “fat” at an operatic p;rfurmance
and the tenor, who was singing liodolfe to
her Mimi, grew marked. So when Mimi lay
dead in her little bed and Rodolfo, in despair,
threw himself over her body, while the
orchestra played touching strains and the
curtain fell slowly, slowly, McParritch wltis
pered triumphantly, “Ye winna sing nar
mair! Ye winna sing nae mair!” Mimi,
being dead, had to lay stark and still. But
when the curtain was down she did full jus-
tice to the situation.
“Shoot, Darn Yuh !” : Satirical-artist Will
Dyson has had more experience of cinema
production than probably any other man now
in Australia. He has helped in the manu-
facture of many English pictures. With Dyson
to write the scenarios, Norman l.indsay
to arrange the ensembles and .Tames Edmond
to decompose the sub-titles, this country
would be the breeding-ground of movies that
would surprise the world.
“F.S.”: Even Scotland has heard of the
Australian’s desire to see his own country
first on the screen. Alexander MacDonald,
who led several prospecting and geological
expeditions in the mid-regions of this con-
tinent, has returned as director of Seven Seas
Screen Productions, Ltd., Glasgow, with two
film actors and the intention of recruiting
more in Sydney. Western Queensland is to
have its portrait taken as the backcloth to
an exciting tale. And in “The Unsleeping
Eye,” to be produced in New Guinea, them
will be “shooting of natives” on a vast scale.
MacDonald was a member of the gold-fos-
sicking expedition to the Ely River in 1905.
which kept its discoveries —whatever they
were —to itself.
“Ilamfat”: There is to be an increased
liveliness in theatrical production in Aus-
tralia. When Hugh Ward parted from the
Fullers it looked as if the field was to he left
to J.C.W.. Ltd., but the Fullers had other
plans. They have booked “Rio Rita” to
follow “Lady, Be Good” at the Sydney St.
Tames, are keeping “Abie’s Irish Rose"
handy for further use and have one of the
brotherhood abroad looking for new things,
while new theatres are building for them in
Maoriland. The Empire people, who have
sold the Fullers the “Sunny” rights outside
Sydney, mean to hurry on their Melbourne
theatre and are discreetly inquiring about
land in Brisbane and Adelaide; that will
mean a series of plays shuffled from town to
town. And Frank Neil is extending his
operations.
“Caesar’s Ghost”: Arthur Greenaway’s
production of “Tulius Caesar” will bring to
Sydney Con. one specially interested on-
looker. Old actor W. ,T. Montgomery now
lives in retirement at Petersham; but ho
can look hack upon the days of 1888 when lie
alternated in the parts of Antony and Brutus
with George Miln, who was playing under
Rignold’s management. “Monty” is old, but
he was not too old to do a bit of home
soldiering during the war.
“Flaming Youth”: The ancient idea of
giving the actor any old part to play and ex-
pecting him to play it, as long as it was in
his “line,” has long passed; to-day mummers
are dragged hither and thither as they are
wanted. John Fernside was rushed over from
“Six Cylinder Love” in Melbourne to play
a part in the Sydney production of “Rain.”
which was dropped owing to Judith Ander-
son’s illness—she is convalescing only now.
He is to be in the “Road to Rome.” Barry
Livesay, another in that piece, was taken
from “Is Zat So?” to support Judith Ander-
son. Wallis Clark is a remaining member
of the “White Cargo” co. George Baxter
was with “Rose Marie” and, more recently,
“The Ghost Train.” Nellie Mortyne, who is
to play the 70-year-old Fahia in the Cri-
terion production, was, when I saw her last,
with Nellie Bramley. Nellie was a very good
Poppcea in Julius Knight’s “Sign of the
Cross.” Billie Lockwood’s jump into “creat-
ing” an important part is one of the points
of interest in the “Road to Rome” produc-
tion. Only a couple of months ago she was
singing child ballads at the Tivoli.
“Matar”: The world has no better natural
actors than the natives of New Guinea. I
once saw a policeboy describing to bis cob-
bers a murder in an inland village. Although
I and two others knew no word of the dialect,
we were able to follow in every detail what
had taken place. The way ip which the
narrator conveyed the collapse of the man
attacked would have made his fortune with
any dramatic co. The stories of the nightly
“sing-sings” portray details that the most
experienced actor would find hard to convey.
THE VILLAIN.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Where is the villain of yester-year,
The scheming rogue with the hitter sneer
Under the spotlight who posed and shone? _
Where has that truculent gentleman gone?
Would-be betrayer of heroines,
Gleefully counting his crimes and sins,
Where has he gone in these decorous days,
This sine qua non of the old-time plays?
Villainous, yes, but he never was coarse,
Nor ever gnawed by the least remorse.
Where is the galleries’ special pet,
Smoking so calmly his cigarette,
Devil incarnate with gestures grim,
What in the drama has happened to him?
What has he done with the missing will?
Has he those mortgages with him still?
Where is the villain we used to know
Pushing the heroine out in the snow?
Where will you find him, that ancient “pro.”?
Spruiking outside of the picture-show!
N.H.W.
A. H. A.


Shipping.
thoTcoor & SON,
Railway and Steamship Agents.
Tlie Only Firm in the World with Permanent Offices
in All Countries to give Service and Assistance to
Travellers.
PASSAGES BY ALL LINES.
Lowest Rates; All Classes.
TRAVELLERS’ CHEQUES
In Sterling and Dollars, Safe, Convenient.
BAGGAGE INSURANCE.
ESCORTED TOURS:
JAPAN.—Leaving Melbourne August 20 ; 87 days’
tour; 23 days in Japan. Hotels, sightseeing, in-
terpreter. Inclusive return fare, £202.
CEYLON AND INDIA. —Leaving Melbourne December
6, 53 days in Ceylon and India, escorted by
European conductor. This tour can be taken en
route to Europe or returning direct to Australia.
EUROPE.—Select, ideal and popular tours, leaving
January to April. Inclusive fare, £llO to £330.
ALGERIA, TUNISIA, SPAIN. —Special Tours leaving
Australia February and March, 1928.
AMERICA.—Special tour en route to Europe, leaving
Melbourne April 18.
THOS. COOK & SON,
MELBOURNE: SYDNEY:
269 Collins Street. Martin Place.
ADELAIDE: PERTH:
49a Grenfell Stieet. 22 Forrest Street (Opp. G.P.0.).
BRISBANE, via BYRON BAY
Through Tickets to Brisbane issued.
S.S. ORARA—livery Saturday evening; passengers
duo Brisbane Monday afternoon.
S.S. WOI.I.ONGBAR —Every Tuesday evening;
passengers due Brisbane Thursday afternoon.
Both vessels fitted with Wireless Receiving Sets.
BRISBANE;
FARES.—
Steamer and Motor throughout, Single, £4
Steamer and Motor throughout, Return, £7/5/-
Steamer and First-class Rail, Single, £3/15/-
Steamer and -class Rail, Single, £3/8/-
NORTH COAST S. N. CO., LTD.,
Passengers’ Booking Office:
TOURIST BUREAU, CHALETS HOUSE,
MARTIN PLACE, SYDNEY.
Brisbane Booking Agents: Burns, Philp and Co., Ltd.
Biinkiii”’, Public Companies, etc.
THE AUSTRALIAN BANK
OF COMMERCE LTD.
Authorised Capital .. .. .. £5,000,000
Capital Paid Up and Reserves .. .. £3,305,130
Aggregate Assets at 30th Jane, 1927 .. £18,366,297
directors: Sir Mark Sheldon, K.8.E., Chairman;
Frank N. Yarwood ; 11. R. Lysaght, 0.8. E. ;
George J. Sly, LL.D.; Lieut.-Col. T. L. F. Rut-
ledge ; James Kell.
General Manager: C. M. C. Shannon.
Chief Inspector for N.S.W.: XV. G. Hull.
lIMAD OEI'fCE, SYDNEY (Corner George and King
Streets).
Branches and Receiving Offices at 158 places in
New Soutli Wales.
BRISBANE (264 Queen Street).
Branches and Receiving Offices at 27 places in
Queensland.
MICT.BOURNE (325 Collins Street).
ADEf.AIDE (35 Rundle Street).
PKRTII, W.A. (73 St. George’s Terrace).
LONDON (37 Threadneedle Street, E.C.2).
Manager: A. F. Jenkins.
London Directors :
A. Dodds Fairuairn, Alfred Shepherd, Jamf.s Tuke.
Agents throughout Australia. Tasmania and New
Zealand, ami at all the Chief Cities of the World.
I'very description of Banking Business Transacted.
Bank of New Zealand.
SYDNEY BRANCH:
Corner GEORGE ami WYNYARD
STREETS.
Guaranteed Stock
Preference Shares
Long Term Mortgage Shares
Ordinary Shares
Reserve Fund and Undivided
.. £529,988
. , 1,875,000
374,197
. . 3,750,000
Profits 3,609,655
GRANTS DRAFTS
on Australia, New
Zealand, Fiji, Samoa.
Great Britain and Ireland, and other places.
RECEIVES DEPOSITS
periods and transacts all other usual Banking business.
Australian Mutual
ProvidsntSociety
Established
1819.
Head Office:
8 7 Pitt St., Sydney
The Largest and Most Successful
Mutual Life Office in the British Empire,
Distributes a Cash Bonus Every Year.
Amount Distributed for single year 1926 £2,887,200
Yielding Reversionary Additions to
Policies of over £4,893,000
Accumulated Funds £63,600,000
Annual Income £9,600.000
The Society transacts Every Class of Ordinary
and Industrial Assurance Business.
H. IV. APPEIILY, F.S.S., General Manager.
Keep hopping and hoping if you wish
to succeed think of
SCHUTE,
BELL&Cua
if you have
Wool & Skins
to Sell.
Personal Attention.
Offices: 44 Bridge Street, Sydney.
-^■MlgfHF
y
“The Woman’s Mirror”
Published every Tuesday
PRICE 3d.
It deals with every subject of
interest to women.
Shipping, etc.
CANADA, UNITED STATES,
UNITED KINGDOM
FORTNIGHTLY SAILINGS FROM SYDNEY.
CANADIAN-AUSTRALASIAN ROYAL MAIL LINE.
via Auckland, Suva (Fiji), Honolulu, Victoria and Vancouver.
UNION ROYAL MAIL LINE
via Wellington, Rarotonga, Tahiti and San Francisco.
MAKURA .... 8,075 tons AUG. 11, for San Francisco.
AORANGI 17,400 ~ AUG. 25, for Vancouver.
TAHITI 7.000 SEPT. 8, for San Francisco.
NIAGARA .... 13,415 „ SEPT. 22, for Vancouver.
Fast and splen-
didly equipped
steamers using
oil fuel.
Spacious Decks,
Unrivalled
Cuisine.
ŕ
The Scenic
Routes to the
United Kingdom,
via South Sea
Islands, Canada,
United Stales.
TICKETS TO THE UNITED KINGDOM INTERCHANGEABLE FOR
RETURN BY OTHER LINES.
HONOLULU EXCURSIONS BY AORANGI AND NIAGARA.
UNION STEAM SHIP CO. { H?|f n H ° use ’ 24 7 George Strect > Sydney.
William street, Melbourne.
MACDONALD, HAMILTON & CO., Brisbane, Adelaide and Perth.
SOUTH SEA TOURS
Attractive Island Trips, occupying about '/I Weeks.
SIX-WEEKLY SAILINGS FROM SYDNEY TO
Naur Britain • S.S. “MONTORO” (5000 tons)
ii£vv Ulllulll. Sails August 13 and September 24.
frl A e • S.S. “MATARAM” (3500 tons)
OVHOIIIOU 1(11105. Sails August 31 and October 12.
A Delightful Holiday in Island Wonderlands.
For Particulars apply—
BURNS, PHILP & CO., LTD.,
Sydney, Melbourne, Adelaide and Brisbane.
m i
vr'i
m
BURNS, PHILP & CO., LTD.,
Passenger Booking Agents for All Steamship Lines
To
ENGLAND
EUROPE
AMERICA
CANADA
AFRICA
INDIA
JAPAN
CHINA
JAVA, etc.
At regular passage rates. No extra charge.
Attractive Tour to
NOUMEA, JAVA, HONOLULU, COLOMBO, etc.
VISIT JAVA (The wonderland of the East).
Regular monthly sailings of the s.s. “Marella” and
m.s. “Malabar” to Java and Singapore via Queensland
ports, Thursday Island, Darwin, etc. Smooth-water trip,
Deck Cabins, interesting ports of call.
APPLY
BURNS, PHILP & COMPANY, LIMITED,
WORLD TOUR and TRAVEL DEPARTMENT.
7 BRIDGE STREET, SYDNEY.
South Africa and England
by
ABERDEEN LINE
BLUE FUNNEL LINE
WHITE STAR LINE
Joint
Service
A combined service offering unequalled
facilities at moderate rates.
f Demosthenes'll,soo tons, Sept. 7
§*Nestor. .. . 15,000 „ Sept. 21
tThemistocles 11,500 ~ Oct. 10
iCeramic .. . 18,500 ~ Oct. 18
*Ulysses .. . . 15,000 „ Nov. 14
jEuripides . . 15,000 ~ Nov. 28
*First class only. tFirst and Third class.
+“Cabin” class only. §Via Suez Canal.
For full particulars apply to:
Dalgety 8 Co., Ltd.
Gilchrist, Watt 8 Sanderson, Ltd.
Joint
Agents
Interstate Telegraphic address:
“NALDHAM.”
Cable address:
“NALDHAM”
Macdonald, Hamilton 8 Co.
247 George Street, Sydney.
Shipping Agents, Merchants, Colliery
Proprietors, Tug and Lighter Owners.
MANAGING AGENTS FOR
Australasian United Steam Navigation Co., Etd.
Fitzroy Estates, Ltd.
lilackheath Collieries, Etc!., and Caledonian
Collieries, Etd.
Eastern & Australian Steamship Co., Ltd.
AGENTS FOR
British-India S. N. Co., Ltd. P. & O. S. N. Co.
Queensland Line of Steamers. Scottish Shire Line
(Turnbull, Martin & Co.). New Zealand Shipping Co.,
Ltd. Canadian-Australasian Royal Mail Line, San
Francisco Service (Union S. S. Co.), Union S. S. Co.
of New Zealand, Ltd. Hain Line. Huddart Parker,
Ltd.- London Assurance Corporation (Marine). Mel-
bourne Agents for MessagerieS Maritimes Co. Queens-
land Agents for Sea Insurance Co., Ltd.
BRANCHES at Perth, Fremantle, Adelaide, Port
Adelaide, Melbourne, Suva (Fiji), Brisbane, Marv"
borough, Bundaberg and Bowen.
BANK OF NEW SOUTH WALES.
Established 1817.
PAID-UP CAPITAL
RESERVE FUND ..
RESERVE LIABILITY
-:--A
£6.875,000
4,750,00(3
6,875,000
£18,500,000
Directors:
Thomas Buckland, Esq., President.
The Hon lteginald J. Black, M.L.C
Charles Binnie, Esq.
James Burns, Esq. -
Robert L. Faithfull, Esq., M.D.
Robert W. Gillespie. Esq.
Franc B. S. Falkiner, Esq.
Auditors: W. H. Palmer, Esq.; S. E. Laidley, Esq. General Manager: OSCAR LINES.
Head Office —George Street, Sydney. London Office—29 Threadneedle Street, E.C. Z.
477 Branches and Agencies in the Australian States, Federal Territory, New Zealand, Fiji, Papua,
Mandated Territory of New Guinea and London. Agents and Correspondents throughout the world.
(.'ahle remittances made to, and drafts drawn on Foreign places DIRFCT. Foreign Bills
negotiated and collected. Letters of Credit Issued, negotiable throughout the world.
Shipping, etc.
Inter-State Steamship
Sailings.
(Passenger Sailings—Circumstances permitting.)
For MELBOURNE. ADELAIDE and FREMANTLE
(Transhipping at Melbourne for Geelong and other
Victorian ports; at Adelaide for S.A. Gulf ports;
and at Fremantle for Perth, Bunbury, Geraldton
and North-West Ports).
FOR QUEENSLAND PORTS
(Transhipping at Brisbane for Maryborough, Bunda-
bcrg and Gladstone, and at Townsville for oulpc.
* Brisbane. Mackay (no cargo for Mackay), Townsville
and Cairns.
Huddart ParkerUl^
Magnificent
Fast Passenger
Steamships
STEAMERS TO NEW ZEALAND—ReguIar sailings
from Sydney to New Zealand ports and vice versa.
Particulars to be obtained on application.
STEAMERS TO TASMANIA—From Sydney to Hobart
and vice versa as per daily papers. Between Mel-
bourne and Launceston as per daily papers.
For full particulars apply HUDDAIIT PARKER LIMITED
Co.liii3 Street, Melbourne; Bridge Street, Sydney.
P. & O. via THE CAPE
SERVICE.
ONE CLASS ONLY.
To LONDON, via Durban & Capetown.
Tons.
BALRANALD . 13,100
BARRABOOL . 13,100
BARBARA'!’ .. 13.100
BAR A DIN li .. 13,100
BICNDIGO .. 13,100
ŗ
Fares, from £37 to £45 to England, and
from £2l to £27 to South Africa.
AGENTS—GILCHRIST, WATT. SANDERSON.
Tel. 86701-2-3. 5 O'Connell Street, Sydney.
Wills, Gilchrist & Sanderson, Ltd., Brisbane.
John Sanderson & Co., Melbourne.
Geo. Wills & Co., Ltd., Adelaide.
BROOKS RUPTURE
APPLIANCE
Can Now be
Purchased in
Australia at London
Prices.
m
If you are Ruptured write at once for full particuiari
of tin’s Modern Invention. Light, cool and coni'
loitable. Expert attends to Mail Orders.
AGENTS; GUYATT & CO,, Est 1853
DEPT. B,
Surgical Instrument and Truss Makers.
257 a GEORGE STREET
(Opposite Bridge Street), SYENEY.
ALL AUSTRALIANS visiting London
should read the British Australian
and New Zealander, 6d. weekly—an illus-
trated paper containing mail and cable news
from Australia and news of Australians in
Europe and at home. Australians are cordi-
ally invited to visit the British Australian
ani) New Zealander Reading-room at the
Offices, 414-17 Australia House, Strand,
London, WC.2, where they can see the home
papers, meet their friends, use the telephone
and obtain information without charge.
Copies of the paper and general information
can be obtained at the Australian Advertis-
ing Agency, Ltd., 850 George Street, Sydney:
nr 484 Collins Street. Melbourne.
WANT TO MAKE
MONEY ?
“The ‘Wild Cat’
Monthly,”
published on the first Saturday of
every month, will help you in your
dealings with shares.
Hundreds of thousands of pounds
are lost annually in Wild Cat com-
panies. “The ‘Wild Cat’ Monthly”
will help you to identify them.
As valuable for the Smallest
Investor as for the Largest. In fact,
the small investoi needs it most,
Published by “The Bulletin,” 2/-
oer single copy; 22/6 per annum.


ar
///
£3
>\s
To mothers of weakly
or thriving Infants .
Benger’s Food is for Infants whenever breast feeding
is impossible or when the strain of nursing calls for partial
relief of the mother; also at weaning time, and after.
Infants thrive on Benger’s because it is always prepared with
fresh new milk. As the addition and action of Benger’s Food
on the milk makes it a close approximation to mother’s milk;
it does not overwork the awakening digestion of the child.
As with the natural food, Benger’s Food leaves sufficient
digestive work to give healthful exercise and growing strength
to infant digestion, while giving the complete nourishment that
is lacking when baby is not properly digesting the food given.
$
13XS3K0HVW T*7 QOOd 5.J130N30
A copy of this tasteful and beautifully illustrated
booklet post free on receipt of Coupon from Benger’s
Food, Ltd., 350 George Street, Sydney.
Cut along this line.
Coupon for Free Copy.
Fill in and post to BENGER’S FOOD, Ltd.
353, George Street, SYDNEY.
I "
Name
Address
or
Food
Infants,
Invalids w/^Aged.
Sole Proprietors and Manufacturers:
BENGER’S FOOD, Lid., Otter Works, MANCHESTER Ensr.
M
*^-/r
m
N\\
m
Savage Sporter
bolt action repeating
rifle round blued
barrel, American
walnut stock,
pistol grip, In- /
terchangeable Au
magazine—six /£k
shots, .22 cal., /Mwh.
.25-20 cal., 07m.
.32-20 cal. j/Afa
When You Want
Results!
The expert craftsmanship built
into every Savage Hi-Power Rifle
has secured unstinted approval,
everywhere.EachHi-PowerSavage
Model is made to give highest
safety, easy handling, and years of
service. The Savage Sporter illus-
trates the unusual popularity of
Savage Rifles, the world over.
Savage Arms Corporation has developed most
of the cartridges adapted to its rifles and es-
tablished their internal and external ballistic
standards. The experienced shooter naturally
prefers to use this ammunition exclusively.
Exclusive Representative for Australia and New Zealand
ASHER SMITH, LTD., P. O. Box 966, Sydney, N. S. W.
SAVAGE ARMS CORPORATION
Export Offices ; 100 East 42nd Street, New York, U. S. A.
Owners and Operators ofj. Stevens Arms Co. and Page-Lewis Arms Co.
If any illustration in “THE BULLETIN” takes your fancy, write
to the MANAGER, who will quote you price for the original.
BUI LD WITH
aOestds
s
SAVE time and money by using
Durabestos (the Wunderlich asbestos-
cement) to line the Exterior and
Interior Walls of your Home. Avail-
able in big, rigid Sheets cheaper
than wood linings easily fixed
cannot burn nor rot. You can obtain
Durabestos Sheets from your
local supplier of building
materials. Send to us for
samples, and free booklet D. 4
WUNDERLICH LTD.
Baptist Street, Redfern, Sydney
The Equity Trustees, Executors and Agency
COMPANY, LIMITED,
85 Queen Street, Melbourne.
BOARD OF DIRECTORS:
HON. DONALD MACKINNON, Chairman. IVOR EVANS, Esq.
SIR EDWARD F. MITCHELL, K.C.M.G., K.C., Vice-Chairman. ,T. J. FALCONER, Esq.
ALBERT S. AUSTIN, Esq., M.B.E. HON. J. G. LATHAM, C.M.G.,
REPORT OF THE DIRECTORS:
K.C., M.P.
For presentation to the 'Seventy-second Ordinary General Meeting of Shareholders, to be held on
Thursday, the 4th day of August, 1927.
The" Directors have pleasure in submitting their Seventy-second Report.
The accompanying Balance-sheet shows a net Profit for the Year ended 30th June last of £..0,060
18s. 7d., from which the interim dividend of 8 per cent., paid in February last, amounting to £OOOO,
has to he deducted, leaving a balance of £14,060 18s. 7d., which it is proposed to apply as follows:
To further Dividend of 8 per cent.
To Bonus of 2 per cent.
To Writing off half cost of alterations to Premises
To Writing 10 per cent, off Office Furniture Account
To Balance
Balance as above
Forward from last year
Transfer to Reserve Fund (making it £30,000)
£6,000 0 0
Balance to be carried forward .. .. .. .. .. •• •• £4,592 16 10
As appears bv the accounts, the Directors have paid the members of the staff the usual 10 p.e. bonus.
By order of the Board,
JOEL FOX, Manager.
Melbourne, 21st July, 1927.
Companies Act 1915.
THE EQUITY TRUSTEES, EXECUTORS AND AGENCY COMPANY, DTD.,
BALANCE-SHEET AT 30th JUNE, 1927.
LIABILITIES.
Authorised Capital,
200,000 Shares of
£2 10s. each .. £500,000 0 0
Less unissued . . 125,000 0 0
£375,000 0 0
Less uncalled .. 300,000 0 0
Capital paid up in
money .. ..
Reserve Fund
Profit and Loss Account
Overdrawn Trust Accounts with
Bankers, secured by the assets of
the respective Trusts —see contra
£75,000 0 0
25,000 0 0
18,031 1 7
£118,031 1 71
£84,052 8 0
ASSETS.
Guarantee Fund held by the Trea-
surer of Victoria
Commonwealth Gov-
ernment Stock
£18,200, at cost.. £18,034 2 6
Victorian Govern-
ment 4 p.e. Stock,
Board of Works
54 p.c. Stock,
£lOOO, at cost .. 1,000 0 0
Real Estate (Company’s Premises),
at cost
Cash in hand and at Bankers
Sundry Debtors for Commissions, etc.
(after providing for bad and
doubtful debts)
Fixtures, Fittings, and Office Furni-
ture (after providing for depreci-
ation)
£lO,OOO 0 0
£49*476 12 6
15,962 9 4
4,050 7 7
37,570 19 3
970 12 11
£118,031 1 7
Moneys advanced to Trust Estates, for
which assets of the Trusts are held
i bv the Company —see contra ■ ■ £84,052 8 0
PROFIT A\l> LOSS ACCOUNT for the Year Ended 30th June, 1927.
To directors and auditors’ fees,
' salaries, advertising, stationery,
office and other expenses .. £23,348 0 9
~ Federal and State income taxes
for year .. .. .. .. 1,970 6 4
..Bonus to staff .. .. .. 1,712 0 0
„ Balance, net profit for year,
carried down .. .. .. 20,060 19 7
1927.—15 t February.
To interim dividend
cent.
1927.—30th June.
To Balance ..
£47,091 5 8
8 per ■
.. £6,000 0 0
18,031 1 7
By commissions, rents, interest on
investments, etc., after providing
for contingencies .. .. .. £47,091 o 8
1926. —30th June.
Bv Balance . .
Less further divi-
dend of 7 per cent. £5,250 0
Bonus of 2 per cent. 1,500 0
Writing off balance
cost of additional
strong-room . . 837 3
Writing 10 per
cent, off office fur-
niture account .. 82 0
Transfer to reserve
fund . y • • 3,000 0
1927. —30th June.
By net profit for year, as above
£47,091 5 8
. £14,639 6 6
0
0
6
0
0
ffrti ficate by directors.
u CERTI*lwn » Faieoner being Directors of The Equity Trustees,
We, Edward Fancourt Mitchell and John J<- • that jn ouv opinion the above Balance-sheet is
Executors and Agency Company, Limited, do her y - J* f the st ate of the Company’s affairs,
correct, and is drawn up so as to exhibit a oo E. F. MITCHELL ( Director ,
Dated at Melbourne, this 21st day of July, 1927. j. j. FALCONER j '
AUDITORS’ REPORT.
. r T?.l l nnpp.sheet is properly drawn up, and exhibits a
We report that in our opinion the accompanying B according to the best of our information and
true Ind correct view of the state of the^Companyof the Company. We have obtained all the
the explanations given to us, and as shown by tne
information and explanations we have leqm . F. L. SMYTH, F.C.P.A. J Auditors.
W. F. SOLES, A.C.P.A. j
Melbourne, 21st July, 1927.


r
Miss ANITA SUTHERLAND,
a beautiful Rexona Girl, who
teas proclaimed “Miss Auck-
land” in the “Miss New
Zealand” 1926 Contest,
writes: “I use only Rexona
Soap, for I find it par
excellence, the very best for
the skin and hair.”
ŕ
Girls! Multiply Your
Beauty—Use Only
Nothing adds to a girl’s charm and beauty more than an exquisite skin and perfect com-
plexion. To obtain this and to retain it, there is nothing to equal Rexona Soap. If your
skin is sallow, tanned or blotchy, you will be both surprised and ' delighted with the good
results obtained front the daily use of Rexona Soap for the toilet"'and bath. Right out of
every ten women in the better walks of life have adopted Rexona Soap for their personal
hygiene and know there can
be no real beauty without a
clear skin and perfect com-
plexion, and it is oidy by the
daily and continuous use of
Rexona Soap that this bloom
of youth can be retained even
until and past middle age.
IfJ]V9/4 JOQ
dVOS
woxaa
ŗ
S
s '1 t >ji|
■ ■
| i •■••
~-
HK
:?v:t
OiJiS
w _ ,
HOME. '
••
HILLIER'S
CHOCOLATES
“And he’s brought me
one of those lovely
Big Red Boxes!”
Made to-day and mailed
to you to-day.
Send for Catalogue Illustrated
with reproductions of our Con-
fectionery in color.
PRICES:
3/-, 5/6, 6/-, 10/-, 12/8,
20/- and 30/-
Post Free to any address in
Australia.
162-66 PITT STREET.
BRANCHES;
CR. GEORGE AND KING ‘STREETS;
CAS TE ERE AOH STREET,
NEXT THEATRE ROY AT.. SYDNEY.
The Triumph.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
WITH rage of trumpets at the dawn
And clang of brass and beat of drum,
High in his gilded chariot drawn,
The townsfolk see their conqueror come.
The horses clatter on the stones,
The sloping spears have points of fire;
Dull shame across the city urones,
But dare not speak its hate’s desire.
Fair girls at open casements stand
Bewildered the colored show ;
Chin cupped upon a slender hand.
They watch the loud procession go.
A woman wild of dress and hair
Screams on a sudden in the street;
Her maddened talons long to tear
The chariot driver from his seat.
Room for the victor! Ply the thong!
The purple banner staggers b.v.
Pale faces in the doorways throng,
Dreading to stay, yet loth to fly.
Bandaged above his great black beard,
With blood yet clotted in his hair.
Goes by the traitor, loathed and feared,
Whose treason wrought this hour's despair.
The drums are throbbing louder still,
Feet thqnder with an even tread;
The trumpeters with wind and will
Tell the long brass of freedom dead.
Halt! Crowding spears give slowly back,
The horses rear, the banners stand;
The music snarls and dies for lack
Of purpose at a lifted hand.
Room for the victor! Ply the thong!
Order from terror’s path is spurned.
Their crackling whips amid the throng
Make passage for the chariot turned.
And clattering, roaring down the street
Go foot and horse in wild dismay,
Pale women fainting at their feet,
Spur, whip and sword in maddened play.
The tumult passes. In a space
Come white-robed priests with solemn
tread,
Who bear across the market-place
A bier close-blanketed with red.
And one, in dreadful monotone,
Cries “Plague!” between liis curving hands.
Room for the victor! Death alone
The conqueror of the conqueror stands.
With heads bent low the priests move on,
Bearing to rest their awful dead,
Nor reck of brazen triumph gone,
Nor ask where horse and chariot fled.
But under yew-trees black with fear
They come with that red weight of woe;
No watcher dares to linger near
The plague-vault mysteries to know.
One draws the fatal cloth aside
With fingers reverent, calm and fine
And shows upon the bier in pride
A cracking skin of hoarded wine!
“Plague!” cries a priest through fat, curved
hands.
“Plague!” cry the priests in order due.
Room for the victor where he stands !
Nine times they fill their cups anew.
“Plague!” moans a priest in misty tones.
“Plague!” croak the priests in voices grey.
They sit on ancient burial stones
And tell their beads till droop of day.
n.s.w.
DAVID MCKEE WRIGHT.
The Shade and the Shape.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
MIND you, I’m only giving you the facts.
The explanation—well, you can figure
that out according to your way of
looking at it. I’m not one for fancy notions
myself, and yet sometimes it has seemed to
me But, anyway, you figure it out for
yourself.
Tornado Tim they called him when he first
came into the game. His name was Malone.
You don’t remember him? He was before
your time, I think, and he didn’t stay long
enough in the business for many to remember
him..
He came from some up-country town, and
brought a big reputation with him. In the
game we don’t take too much account of
bush reputations. I’ve seen a few men wlio’d
punched up a bit of a name in their own
home town look sick enough when they got
among the men who live by their hands.
But Malone was in a different class. He
came like a tornado —and he went out like
one.
I was a youngster in the business then.
Malone took a fancy to me, and I got to
sparring with him and then to rubbing him
down. He reckoned I had a better touch than
most men he’d lain on a table for.
You can guess Malone was a bit of a hero
to me. I can see him now as lie looked the
night he handed Battler Burns the sleeping
draught. He didn’t stand more than five foot
eight, but he stripped lovely. Every part of
him was useful. ..
But it was his crouch that set ’em all
talking—and his smother. He’d come at his
man bunched up like a Chinaman carrying a
bag of spuds. And when he got into trouble
he’d bunch up a bit more, with the prettiest
smother you ever saw. There’d be nothing of
him left to hit but his legs; but you’d reckon
he couldn't come out of it this side of a
knock-out.
His first big fight most folk reckoned he
was done when he smothered. Later they
knew that he was just getting dangerous then.
He could fight his way out of it with both
hands, and still not leave a square inch open
for a glove to find a home on.
That win over Battler Burns brought him
up amongst the big men with a rush. They
matched him with Peter Smith. The fight
drew a big house and big betting. Smith had
learned his first straight lefts when most of
us are learning pothooks. And he'd been
fighting and learning ever since. He was
reckoned the greatest artist of his day. You’ve
no doubt heard of him. Malone was a novice,
as you might say. But those who had seen
liis crouch and his smother, and the way he
bunched his shoulder behind his punch, reck-
oned him a sound investment. The money
was pretty even.
They went to eight rounds, and they fought
from gong to gong. At the end of the eighth
Smith forced him hard. Malone smothered.
Some reckoned Smith too old a hand to fall
to it. But most of the bets had been settled
before Smith came round enough to ask how it
happened.
Malone was made —it was then they named
him Tornado Tim. But it was a gruelling
fight. He was on the table five minutes be-
fore he seemed inclined to speak. Then he
turned over as I was running down his
biceps flexors.
“Well. Berry,”. he said, “that accounts
for number one. Now, let 'em iTll come. ’
I remember well what he said. I had
reason to.
At eight o'clock next morning I got a
message from liis wife that his legs were
bad with cramp, and asking me to come
out and massage him. By the time I got there
they had the doctor in.' It was paralysis.
For three months they had him propped
up in a chair and fed him like a baby. Then
he took the count. The last words he
ever spoke to me were, “Well, Berry, that
accounts for number one. Now, let ’em all
come.”
And that finishes the story of Tim Malone
—or it doesn't, according to how you look
at it.
It was maybe fifteen years later, when
I'd got well into the game myself, and well
out of it again, and was down to teach-
ing young gents the ABC of stoush, when
1 chanced on young Ron. Fairless, lie had
a fancy for wrestling. He had the physique,
and he had the other thing that’s inside a
man and comes out when he’s pushed ; and
he was in earnest. But, though I didn't
like to quench his young enthusiasm, l
didn't see him making anything but an
ordinary man on the mat.
I tried him out once or twice with the
gloves. But it was just the same. He was
ordinary. He couldn’t get the knack of
thinking with his hands. It took too long
for the idea of a punch to get from his brain
to his gloves. But he was an earnest lad,
and a trier, and could take the cane. 1
liked him, and I stuck to him.
He had a fancy for an early morning
swim and a spar before breakfast. We
were coming home along the beach one
morning, heel and toe, and feeling well,
when we ran foul of half a dozen toughs.
They wanted trouble.
“What about it?” said Fairless. “Shall
we try ourselves?”
I wasn’t very willing, having a jarred
hand at the time, but once we got into
action I forgot the hand —until it collided
with a chin that was stuck on to a pretty
stiff neck. After that I was only fit for
holding the coats. I suggested a sprint but
Fairless shook his head. He had more confi-
dence in his hands than in his feet.
But it was cruel to see the punishment
he took. They pasted that lad till he was
limp. He got that exhausted I reckoned
to sed him drop any minute. I was wonder-
ing if they’d put in the boots when they
had .him down when a funny thing hap-
pened. He collected a star-producer square
on the point. I reckoned he was finished. The
toughs made a rush to close the chapter.
Then Fairless crouched. It was a funny
mpve. Next second he drove straight into
them like a tug boat driving into a heavy se a.
It didn’t last long after that. The gruel-
ling had snapped the short-circuit that
always stood between his brain and his-
hands. He was another man. It was lovely
to watch him. He swept those toughs up
like a charwoman sweeping up cigar-ends
at a gents.’ club.
But when it was over I was sorry for
him. He seemed to be sort of dazed and
stupid. He didn’t even knoiv which was
the way home. There was a staring, won-
dering look about his eyes, like an empty
house with the blinds up. And when he
spoke you couldn’t quite make out whether
lie was talking or someone else. I tell you
I didn’t like it. It was unnatural.
But he was right next day, barring a scar
or two, and an eyelid that kept on thinking
it was bedtime.
‘‘Sonny,” I said, “you're a fighter. I’ve
never taught you anything. You drew the
idea of it in with your mother’s milk. You
knew how to do it before you started to
think. It’s an instinct. But why—why have
you been lying dark? And why did you
take so long to wake up yesterday? You
took that gruelling for the love of it. There
can’t be any other reason. You could have
cleaned up a whole gang like that at the
start if you wanted to. Why. sonny, Why?'
“Berry,” he said, “I’d tell you why if I
could. But it’s got me beat. To tell you
the truth, I’ve only got your word for what
happened. I can remember that hit that
closed my eye. The next thing I remember
is that the egg they gave, me for breakfast
was too hard-boiled.”
“Well, anyway,” I said, “God made you
a fighter and I’m not going agen His inten-
tions. You’re going into the game.”
And he did. I started to work him in
earnest.' And he nearly broke my heart.
That short-circuit had come back again. He
just couldn’t get past it.
“Berry,” he said at last, “I’m game to
stick to it while you’re game to coach me;
but do you think it’s worth it? I can see
you’re disappointed. You made a mistake.
I’m not meant for a fighter.”
“Damned if I know,” I said. “I’ll admit
that sometimes you seem more like a dele-
gate to a peace conference. But why? 1
ask you. You can fight. You did fight.
What’s happened in the meantime?”
We talked it over, but we couldn’t come
to any conclusion.
“Look.” I said at last, “are you game
for a ding-dong try-out? I’ll get a man
in who should beat you up like a liotel-cook
beating eggs. Will you go the distance with
him, and take what you get, and see what
you can do when. you’ve got it?”
“Bight,” he said. “And your verdict goes.
(Continued on next page.)


®the new
His
Masters
Voice"
Instruments
irHT GRAND.
S£» «'•
TVfoct.ftt
UPRIGHT
Mode
M° de , s voice”
“His M^ s^el . tone
Latest type otn H baUd:>ea»ng Best
internal 4 sound ca \>inet,
arm » n J Ju’ mahogany bowls
satm jn ke y. !Ne Record
lid lOCt and used ua
tor new “ mbe , Anton Double
«'V£;'S“sf«s-S5
ss a-sjsf— '" ai -
SIS* ... £53 1« »
ř
Critics agree that these "His Master’s
Voice Orthophonic Instruments are the
outstanding triumphs in the field of musi-
cal reproduction. All the rich tone-color,
warmth and magic of living music itself. A
remarkable instrument that gives “His
Master s Voice world-famous tone full
range of the entire musical register.
Exquisite in design and finish.
Portable Model £l2
Table Models from £l4
Cabinet Grands from £33
Complete catalogues of “His Master's Voice'’ Instruments and
Records unth name of nearest dealer forwarded free on request.
The Gramophone Co., Ltd.,
163 Pitt Street, Sydney.
<<xi; s Master’s ’Vorc
Lat est, Wg orn H ball-beanng *»*
internal 0 _ 4 cabinet-
aAsu js
Slr^^S
lator and
catov. _ £52 10 O
}ak •••■■'... • £00
Mahogany • • ■
UPRIGHT GRAND,
Model 171.
>ice” £
tone <
Latest type “His Master^; Voicej’
Best -
satin finish »« edle cab b S
s5f^’-# J sra
s?rSrsP3ss
Mahogany v
* u uht CD a - —
Mo<W 'S!
sound h„ beat 'ing * „ er s Voi ce >, -
5- l, S. W &„»«:* S3,*~L»?';
4 «oa el
si™
-—net r ■ Best a «Ji am, W J ern *
ms:
km' jSswh Sh» 2«°«
Bid
scoring
_ *>*£&**>
speed i- tui ’ nt >ibie f Ui> . <lru Ple s,!!:' Beeord
Oa , re^tov,\ ut^matic P li n f Kotor
i2in
•cord
Ouk
Mahogany
£65
£73 ig
“His Masters Voice,' Reg’d Trademark.
“GramophoneReg’d Trade-mark.
I 11 stick to the business or drop it, accord-
ing to what you think.”
“A wager,” I said.
So I got in Sandy Tate, who was just
beginning to get in amongst the big men.
Look, Sandy," I said, "he’s a game lad
and he can lick up punches like a kitten
licking up milk. Don’t spare him. Treat
him as if you thought lie might hurt you
at any minute.”
, Hut, said Sandy, "he's only a novice.
It s cruelty.”
not a member of the S.P.C.A.
I orget he's a novice, and bore in.”
And Sandy did. I began to think it was
cruelty myself. Once or twice I nearly
threw in the towel. He beat young Fairless
to the stage when he hadn’t enough thinking
power left to know whether he was beat or
not.
And then it happened again. I don’t
know where it came from. He suddenly
found out what he was in the ring for.
He toed uj) to Sandy and fought him all
round the ring. I let. them go the round,
and then I stopped them. I'd seen all I
needed, and I didn’t want, him to knock him-
self about.
“What do you think of my novice?” I
said to Sandy.
“Novice—Hell!” he said, as he put back
lus teeth. “But why does he hang fire so
long?”
I didn’t tell him, but I knew just, the
same. It ivas the short-circuit. The gruel-
ling acted as a sort of switch. It let the
current through.
"Boy." I said, “as long as you can stand
«P to the punishment you'll make your name.
What do you say? Will you go into the
game?”
"I’m going by your verdict.” he said. “My
opinion doesn't count. I seem to start for-
getting as soon as I start fighting. If it
wasn’t that you have Tate’s backing I’d
think you’d made a mistake again.”
So lie went into the game.
At the end of three weeks’ training I
went round and asked Sandy Tate if he
thought the lad could fight. I began to
doubt myself. That short-circuit got me
puzzled at times.
"light!" said Sandy. “Hell! Didn’t you
see him ?”
Sandy was never too good at laying his
ideas out in words, but I could see what
he thought. I forgot the short-circuit and
plugged away.
I staged him once or twice against small
men, just to get him used to an audience.
Then I booked him for a gallop in good
company.
I backed him to my limit. I reckoned
I knew my man. And I was right—though,
in a manner of speaking, I was wrong too.
But that’s according to how you look at it.
I tell you. with the crowd around me
laughing at him, the way he just let himself
get punished, I thought once or twice I
should have given my money to charity. I
began to wonder if the short-circuit theory
was sound enough to be classed as a business
investment.
It took three rounds to get him to the
feeble stage. He’d been down a few times.
and sometimes didn't look like coming up
again But he had that something inside
turn I spoke of. It always got him on his
pins in time.
At the start of the fourth round he stop-
ped a hook to the point. lie was too weak
to cover himself. He went down where he
stood, rhe crowd cheered. They were be-
ginning to like him for his guts.
, .The count went to eight. I found myself
mting the corner of the towel. My life's
sayings had two seconds to decide whom they
belonged, to. It was a strain. The theory
looked sick. I began to feel sick too. And
I felt sorry for him. All that punishment
tor nothing!
My heart missed two . beats when he rose
on lus knee at nine.
Did you ever watch a baby waking out of
a sound sleepV One minute lie’s dead out.
'hen he gives a bit of a wriggle. Next
second he's wide awake.
That s how it happened. The current got
through before the count came. He didn't
stand up. lie half-rose. His knees were
still bent, and lie was hunched up like a
kid that had been eating green apples.
The crowd thought he was finished. I
thought—well, I don't know what I thought.
And then the light began.
Most men have a great moment in their
lives. That was one of mine. And the
house—well, it took ’em half a round to
realise it was the same fight they were
slill watching. I forgot about my life's
savings. I watched Fairless sort of dazed.
The lad was a marvel. And where had it
come from?
In the eighth round his man made a big
bid to outpace him. It was whirlwind from
the sound of the gong. The house was on
its feet. I told you about having my great
moment. I was wrong. It was still to
come. They fought, it too to toe. Every
ounce was working. Then Fairless smoth-
ered. Pretty! Lord, lie was like Gibraltar.
There wasn't an inch to hit. I’ll never
forget that smother. And I'll never forget
the -way he came out of it.
I don’t know what happened. Did you
ever try to watch a bullet coming out of a
rifle? That’s what it was like—and the
fight was over.
The house wanted to embrace Fairless, but
I slipped him away to liis room. The lad
was done. I had him half-dressed before
he spoke.
He turned to me and that funny, staring
look was in his eyes again. I don’t know
if it was his voice that spoke. As I said,
yon can figure out your own explanation.
“Well, Berry.” lie said, “that accounts for
number one. Now. let ’em all come.”
J.T. P. McKINNEY.
The Rights of Property,
[FOR THE BULLETIN. ]
WHAT is it they say about speeding
the parting guest V”
The gaolbird made no answer,
but gazed out of the window at a patch of
grass on which the Gaol Governor’s children
were playing—the only touch of color he
had seen for nearly two years. “I suppose
we’ll see you again directly, Slinker,” con-
tinued the clerk.
“Not me,’’ was the reply. “The old bird
with the big wig said ’e would declare me
a nabitual if I come before ’im again.”
"But I thought you liked this place!”
“Oh, it's all right fer a few months iiow
and again. But the beaks is makin' things
too ’ot fer us.”
The gaol clerk counted out two pounds
in silver, and the recipient, carefully tying
the money in a tattered handkerchief, dropped
it into a breast pocket.
Again Arthur Smith, alias the Slinker,
heard l lie familiar clang of the iron gates
behind him. He was back in the world
of affairs after a sixth visit to the peni-
tentiary. But he displayed no elation. This
sojourn had been tedious. “Two years,”
lie muttered, “fer snatchin’ a woman's hand-
bag. Why, they'll be bangin’ us yet!”
He wondered what he could do. The
Judge’s threat to send him tip as an
“habitual,” releasable only at his Majesty’s
pleasure, had disturbed his Usual philoso-
phic acceptance of the Law’s demands. As
lie strolled towards the city, he mused pit
the affairs of this ill-bahlnced world. , lie
never regarded himself as.il efihtindl. What-
ever came his way had always been shared
with a wife and two children, and he was
genuinely fond of children. lie did not drink
to excess, and had never carried a gun, nor
had lie been guilty of an unnecessary act
of violence. He wanted to live .at peace
with the world, but those who ran the world
insisted that lie could not live at all without
working. And lie hated working, doing
things over and over again, day after day,
just to get enough food and clothing; leaving
home at half-past-six in the morning, crawl-
ing back at night too tired for anything but
sleep; and the hunting for jobs. If he only
had a trade and knew exactly where to go
every morning, it might be different.
He had been well fed before leaving the
gaol, and, having decided to begin his free-
dom with a long bask in the sun. he drifted
back to his old seat in Hyde Park, there
to watch the masons add stone to stone
of the new cathedral. For hours lie tried
to think it all out. Early in life he had
discovered that his small, deft hands eodid
find their way into pockets and handbags
without tlie owners of the pockets and bags
being conscious of tile ihttusion. A faceti-
ous constable had once told the police magis-
trate that “tiie accused could steal a man’s
SOcks without the man taking his boots- off.”
Swift, and silent on his feet, when in a
crowd lie was the champion of his craft.
This was the only use he had been able
to find for the two distinctive gifts bestowed
by nature.
But that last heavy sentence, for what he
regarded as a trivial offence, had frightened
him, and now he was “well known to the
Johns” —perhaps one was at that moment
watching him. With envy lie watched the
crowd of people emerging from the cathedral
in which a requiem mass for the repose of
tb e ®°M, ‘l Jbst-deceased notability had
*%”**£'& XS
m want, he thused.. A few minutes over
there and lie might pick up enough to meet
his simple wants for a month or more. But
those words of wanting of the Judge, the
tlm„ght 0 f Derpetiml residence in that grey
cold hell of stone and iron bars, made hint
kecp his seat . No man coul(1 sta nd more
than a stretch of it year at a time. And out
here was life, a warm penetrating sun, great
expanses of grass. The warm color of a
J™,' ° f S® l[( \™ l K ,T] ,ies waa 80 ' Hf '
terent from the whitewash of his cell. Why,
] ie asked himself, was there such love of
property and so much machinery to protect
the rights of property V There they were,
hundreds of people .passing and ropassing,
some displaying their wealth, others conceal-
ing it. all able to spare enough to relieve
him of his constant want of simple necessi-
ties. He had often listened to street orators
sneering at the laws passed for the protec-
tioii of property, and he agreed with therm
too mUcli.wevenT those
" T , A*.*? bttie justified in helping. ilieni-
selves' Ht; had offer! giizod uIH. shop windows
and reflected on the injustice bf iieopfe being
aliqwod to keep th<*c gredt stocks of food
aiK \ ( * 0 n ! 1 ? 1( , e? others were Jiungr>
«>r'brwri at heel. Justice they called it! lie
*J ad to so many homilies on Justice
\ r " m «“»* detached administrators of the
law wll ° “ved in a different world,
Yet what was he to do? “Two years for
a woman’s ’aiidbag!” lie muttered again,
“and only two and tuppence and a packet of
’airpins in it!” There seemed nothing left
but another attempt to work as soon as his
two pounds was spent.
His reflections finished in slumber, from
which he awoke in great alarm. He luul
dreamed that a constable’s arm was on his
shoulder! He got up, shook himself like a
dog. and reluctantly proceeded to look for
work.
The first thing was to find a cheap doss-
house and then to spend a shilling or two
0 n those luxuries which for two years had
been denied him by a niggardly Government,
He felt for his money. The breast-pocket
was empty r
Not far away a shabby individual was
hurrying across the park as the Slinker him-
self had often hurried, looking neither to
the right nor the left. With a scream of
i 1 (, w i,„„ o u.,,1 w,,, v ;„
xz* ,
With incredible speed lie overtook the fugi-
five, and with hands and teeth sought to
MT.<¥ >»"' Mmv*
' ' , /
, ” hen a constable had sorted out the com-
batants lie laughed at the Slmker’s insistent
demand for justice.
“Anyone who can pick your pocket,” ho
sa 'd, deserves to get away with it. Got
a ' on '’ noW- t_ e t wo y°u !”
S° the Slinker, as a final protest against
the .world’s injustice, went back to his pro-
fession,
G.S. BEEBY.


m
I
* ■
•@S==s
m
mmk
WESTINCHOUSE
Morse Silent Rocker-Joint
CHAIN DRIVES
Ensure minimum wear—
Maximum life and highest
efficiency.
Chains in stock—wheels manu-
factured to suit requirements
Write for particulars
and Booklet BM 414.
THE WESTINCHOUSE BRAKE CO.
OF AUSTRALASIA LTD.,
Queensland Agents—HOLMES X CHURCH, Brisbane.
>.Z Offlce-93-lO: Featherston Street Wellington. CONCORD WEST, N. S. WALES.
Victorian Office—99 Queen Strefetj Melbourne.
South Australian Agents: Messrs. ELDER, SMITH & CO., LTD., Adelaide, S.A.
f
THIS IS A
HILL FOR
(zeniths
POWER ON HILLS" —that i*
only one advantage of the one
and only ZENITH ! Other advan-
tages are quicker acceleration, greater
economy on petrol consumption,
smoother running at all openings of
the throttle, surer slow running, more
power at Spe-e-d.
Special models obtainable for all
popular cars, such as Chevrolet,
Dodge, etc., which can be fitted
quickly by any mechanic.
Fit
7ENITH.
CARBURETTER
Write for ZENITH Booklei to-day to
BEX-NETT & WOOD, LTD Sydney
ALEXANDER MATE & CO. PTY., LTD. .. Melbourne
MARTIN WILSON BROS., Ltd Brisbane
A. O. HEALING & CO. PTY., LTD Adelaide
HARRIS SCARFS & HANDOVER, Ltd Perth
ZENITH CARBURETTER CO. LTD.,
40, Newman Street, LONDON. W. 1. Eng,
FIT IT —SET IT—THEN FORGET IT-
- -- - - » . ■ ■ - ■■ - - »■ *■—
PURE IRISH LINEN
Direct from the Manufacturers!
PURE IRISH LINEN
SHEETING
Hard wearing Pure Irish
Linen Sheeting made from
pure flax yarns. Made
almos' laundry proof by a
special process or b'eacbing-
assuring ex'; a long wear.
72 ins. w'ide 90 ins. wide
per >ard per yard
4/3 5/6/
BUY your Irish Linen direct from
Robinson & Cleaver, Belfast —
you save the middleman’s profits and
obtain at a moderate price the finest
products of Ireland’s looms.
HUCKABACK TOWELLING
Hard wearing Pure Irish Linen Huckaback
Towelling. Wonderfully strong. Suiiable
for Roller, Lavatory or Face Towels
18 ins. wide 1 / 24 ins. wide 1/O
per yard */" per yard 1 / **
HEAVY CREAM DAMASK
Heavy Creanr. Pure Irish Linen Damask
by the yard. Will become White after a
few washings. Very special value
54 ins. wide Ain 70 ins. wide C/Q
per yard “/ per yard •*/ u
Write for FREE Catalogue.
Our beautifully illustrated Catalogue of fine Irish Linens,
together with Samples, will be sent post free • Ask for No.SSD,
ORDERS OF OVER £lO CARRIAGE PAID BY PARCELS POST
TO DESTINATION, OR BY STEAMER TO PORT OF LANDING.
ROBIN SON &CLEAVER
Irish Linen
Manufacturers
BELFAST
The Home of
Irish Linen
NORTHERN IRELAND.
If any illustration in “The Bulletin” takes your
fancy, write to the Manager, who will quote you price
for the original.
y<
Holds More Ink
LrbfH
mi.
Zwym//m//w///A
SSfJi&sy.
Make Onoto your Pen—lt Is a great time*
saver and the best writing instrument it is
possible to obtain, and the fact that it
holds 50 per cent, more ink than any
other self-filling pen has gained for Onoto,
the Pen, the first place.
THOMAS HE LA RUE & CO. LTD.
110 Bunhill Row, London, E.C. 1.
Representatives: Norman Baker & Longhurrt
50 York Street. Sydney.
ONOTO for all Pens.
Diiiousj
When you suffer
From biliousness take
BEECHIAM’S PILLS
Biliousness arises
From disordered
Stomach and bowels
BEEGHAM’S PILLS
Tone and cleanse
Stomach, liver, bowels
And the entire system.
Banish biliousness
Relieve constipation
Dispel dyspepsia
Jake
PM)
A dose at night
will keep you right
Sold in
Boxes
/- & 2/6.
T~
\r~
=<?
y_:~
s=(S,
i
3S
- a*
%
l£&2%Zy, v
Z££t%i S3S!*??
asas
3KIS
Mnaannuwai
“RING LOCK,” THE LOCK THAT WILL NOT SHIFT.
This Fence is made from the finest open hearth galvanised steel, in our own Factory
by Australian Workmen, and is now available for the first time to the Australian Farmer.
The Fence throughout (both Laterals and Droppers) Is heavy 10-gauge, thus producing
a stiff stay fence, requiring less posts than usual.
Made for the present in two styles only.
No. 1 An ideal sheep fence, five lines spaced, sin., Bin., 7in., and Bin. apart, 26in.
high. Droppers spaced 12in. apart.
PRICE:—In 5-chain Rolls, 6/9 per Chain, or £23/10/ per mile.
No 2 A fine sheep or cattle fence, six lines spaced sin., 6in,, Tin., Bin., and 10in.
apart, 36in. high. Droppers spaced 12in. apart.
PRICE:—In 5-chain Rolls, 8/3 per chain, or £29/10/ per mile.
SEND FOR FULLY ILLUSTRATED CATALOGUE. POST FREE.
SOLE MANUFACTURERS,
D. & W. CHANDLER LTD.
276 to 294 Brunswick St., FITZROY. Phone J 4145.
And at
234 to 236 Flinders Lane, MELBOURNE. ’Phone F 4175.
ESTABLISHED 1876.
0°
AO e S 6>
S< **■'.
4$
&&
\K
Ws^
*r
• • o* ““«&*’•*<>


The whisky with the small
label and the big reputation
-that's Johnnie Walker
Born 1820 " Still going Strong
It’s easy to see why
JOHNNIE WALKER’
has the largest sale of
any whisky in the world
■ . n*
X
m
/
B***==
& - V.
J&P
Vj
A
Sk
»*»
a
$
M
• *»
s
/
*«l'^-BS. b ! t !2n Awards
"■«,«'« SSSXtVr-ZS&g
c^arant,c *y_ f . WfHRBu" ?*
.™®oucmoSt Qualty
•*«!*
-4
