

A NEW DEVELOPMENT
IN
AUSTRALIAN INDUSTRIES
V
* > :
M
I
tM bJ
I
»
■
> tfAftmUM fev
i'^.l
1
Bl 4 '** i
\ , ” ” f , ’!
"mm: A ',,
' “*i“ * *
.
mm
; ; : . '
Fig. 220 —Hadfields 6o x 48 in. All-steel Jazu Crusher (hack vieiv).
*k & -
ff
Fig. 158—Hadfields 6A Gyratory Crusher, supplied
to the N.S.W. State Quarries at Kiama.
SIZE 6 STYLE A HADFIELDS
GYRATORY SECONDARY CRUSHER
Crushing Capacity: Approx. 600 tons of 2Jin. Metal
per 8-hour Day.
This is the FIRST Size 6 Style A Gyratory Crusher
Yet Built in Australia.
MAMMOTH CRUSHERS
DESIGNED and WHOLLY MANUFACTURED FROM
AUSTRALIAN MATERIALS in the SYDNEY WORKS OF
HADFIELDS (AUSTRALIA) LIMITED,
*6oin. x 48in. HADFIELDS ALL-
STEEL CRUSHER
Crushing Capacity: Over 5000 tons of 5-ton Spalls
Down to lOin. Metal per 8-hour Day.
WEIGHT OF CRUSHER—APPROX. 100 TONS.
This Crusher is being Installed in the N.S.W . State
Quarries at Kiama.
This is the Largest Jaw Crusher Yet Built in the
British Empire .
42in. x 36in. HADFIELDS ALL-
STEEL CRUSHER
Crushing Capacity: Over 1200 tons of 3-ton Spalls
Down to 6in. Metal per 8-hour Day.
This Crusher is Working Successfully in the Federal
Blue Metal Quarries at Minnamurra, South Coast,
N.S.W.
Fig. i6q — Hctdfields 42 x 36 in. All-steel Jaw Crusher.
UADFIELDS
(AUSTRALIA)
LIMITED
ĥ
HEAD OFFICES & WORKS: Alexandria, Sydney, N.S.W. Branch Works: Bassendean, Perth, W.A.
BRANCH OFFICES
(422 Collins Street, MELBOURNE, VIC.
i 56 King William Street, ADELAIDE, S.A.
IT, and G. Building, Queen Street, BRISBANE, Q.
The Bulletin
Vol. 48.—N0. 2473.
See page 36.
Thursday, July 7, 1927.
Price 6cL
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.


FOREIGN LITERATURE.
P REECE’S New Catalogue of French, Italian and
Spanish Books is post free on application.
F. W. PREECE & SONS,
34 King William Street, Adelaide.
WITHIN THE SHADOW,
VV By MAURICE C. GROOM.
A book devoted to Australia’s problems.
6/- (Postage 3d.), ALU BOOKSELLERS.
WRITE for the 1927 New Library Cata-
logue, which is now ready and will be
sent post free with full terms and particulars
on application to
DYMOCK’S BOOK ARCADE, LTD.,
428 George Street, Sydney.
, LYSAGHT
O
3
R
AUSTRALIA
Support Australian Industries.
All users of Galvanized Iron should specify
Lysaght’s Australian-made
Galvanized Corrugated Iron.
Manufactured wholly from Australian Raw
Materials, and equal to the best imported.
METAL CEILINGS
Enrich and beautify your home by installing Wunderlich
Art Metal Ceilings in every room. Choose tasteful designs
from the hundreds available—prices are reasonable and the
fixing is both simple and inexpensive. Moreover, the
finished work remains permanently free from blemish—
proof against fire and vermin
WUNDERLICH LTD.,
Baptist Street, Redfern, Sydney.
Write to-day for free I
Catalogue, M. 27 }
Inspect the popular Wunderlich
designs stocked by your local
supplier of building materials.
S
J
h
A perfectly-blended Cod Liver
Oil Emulsion with the nourish-
ing and healing qualities that
sick people need.
Possessing a building-up power
that is enduring, Hypol has
restored many thousands to
ruddy, robust health.
ĥ
There are more vitamins in one
dose of Hypol than in an aver-
age three-course dinner.
No one can take this pleasant
nutritious emulsion without
feeling better, looking better,
being better.
Take HYPOL for Coughs, Colds, Bronchitis,
Lung Complaints, Weakness, Anaemia, or
where a powerful tonic and restorative is
required.
You’ll find HY POL the shortest route to health ♦
At chemists and stores. 2/6 per large bottle.
From the laboratories of FELTON, GRIMWADE & CO. PTY. LTD., Melbourne.
If any illustration in “THE BULLETIN” takes your fancy, write
to the MANAGER, who will quote you price for the original.
AFRAID OF FOOD.
Sufferers from indigestion very often become faddists as regards their food, and find
themselves in time reduced to a very meagre and unsatisfying diet. Hudson’s Eumen-
thol Jujubes correct acidity of the stomach, and their antiseptic properties prevent
abnormal fermentation of the food, thus allowing the natural digestive ferments to act
and if taken regularly after meals they so
improve the digestion, that a strict diet be-
comes unnecessary. Hudson’s Eumenthol
Jujubes are most useful to those who suffer
from Heartburn, Flatulence and Dyspepsia.
SOLD EVERYWHERE—Tins 1/6.
Recommended by the Medical World, viz.
The Lancet, The Practitioner, etc.
C 7
wm
AMJ
D S ON
HU
matm
The Red Page
The Movies and Art
In endeavoring, so very evidently, to be
impartial and just to the moving pictures,
D. P. McGuire in “Art and the Movies”
(R.P. 26/5/’27) has succeeded merely in be-
ing rather superficial. Let it be granted that
the movies can be regarded from two dis-
tinct standpoints—as providing simple
“entertainment” and as an “art.” So, too,
can literature, using the term in its widest
sense (there’s a pretty effective chasm
between, say, “Sexton Blake” and Charles
Garvico on the one hand, and Wilde’s “In-
tentions” and Landor’s “Imaginary Conver-
sations” on the other). So, too, can music
(even my uncritical ear distinguishes a
difference in genus. between “Horsey, Keep
Your Tail Up” and a Bach fugue). This
double character of “popular” and “cul-
tured” is patent in every art.
Now this is where I begin to grind my
axe. I can understand and sympathise
with the man who honestly says: “Look
here, I like jazz, but I don’t care a button
for Beethoven.” I can meet on a level with
the plebeian reader who declares, “I love
Bertha Ruck’s books, but I wouldn’t wade
through ‘Tess’ if you gave me a pound
a chapter.” You may not cherish similar
standards and ideals, but at least you are
tolerant enough to let the other fellow revel
contentedly in his likes and dislikes. But
what I am not prepared for one moment to
sympathise with is the position of the self-
sufficient individual who roundly avers that,
because he can’t see any “art” in Pater or
Dvorak or Rodin, ergo there can’t be any
there. And it is precisely this attitude
that Mr. McGuire adopts. He says: “I
have not the slightest doubt that there is
an art of picture-making and an art of
picture-acting; but they' are not high arts,
and hardly arts at all in the sense in which
we can speak of the art of literature or
the art of etching or the art of acting in
the theatre proper.”
Let us examine the propositions offered
in support of his unkindly view: “It did
not need Luigi Pirandello to make it, but
he has admirably stressed the point that the
intervention of the machine in the film-
making process is a fatal rupture. The
contact between high art and the. individual
who comes to it must be immediate.” Waft
Whitman, no doubt, would have expansively
■welcomed the congenial doctrine; but will
it hold water? I am sure it will not. Mr.
McGuire instances etching as a high art.
This is what an irreproachable authority,
Noah Webster, has to say on the process:
“The plate is first, covered with varnish, or
some other ground capable of resisting the
acid, and this is then scored or scratched
with a needle, or similar instrument, so as
to form the drawing; the plate is then
covered with acid, which corrodes the metal
in the lines thus laid bare”; if the etching-
is to be transferred to paper, as in the
most common case in which the term applies
nowadays, recourse is made, of course, to a
printing-machine. Is this immediate con-
tact between high art (the writer seems to
mean the artist as a creative individual)
and the person who comes to it? No;
therefore etching is not. a high art—the
deduction is absurdly simple. Could not. a
good case be made out to establish the
theorem that, since Paderewski employs a
machine called a piano, his playing, too,
cannot be a high art?
Now for supporting proposition number
two. “Good as an actor may be, he cannot
-convey by gesture or expression on the
screen what a painter can convey with a
stroke of his brush on the canvas, or a
writer with a sentence on his pad” (note,
in passing, the “pad”; it would never do, of
course, aiming at high art, to employ a
machine, such, for instance, as a typewriter).
In the first place, why not,? If he cannot
convey an emotion by gesture or expres-
sion, then I confess my complete inability
to see how an actor in the “theatre proper”
can hope to do so. In the second place, it
simply isn’t true.
The sentence immediately preceding the
one quoted in the last paragraph declares:
“The film, in short, lacks the' ability to
portray spiritual values.” If a film has no
power to portray the spiritual values of
courage, self-sacrifice, or filial devotion or
ingratitude by telling a story (and that
the movies, at least, “can give us a story” is
expressly conceded), why, then, no more has
a novel, let alone the redoubtable etching.
One more turn on the grindstone, and I
am done. Mr. McGuire, in conclusion, in-
quires: “How, for example, could the ‘Pick-
wick Papers’ be done on the films? How
‘The Brothel's Karamazov,’ ‘Don Quixote/
‘Hamlet/ ‘The Importance of Being
Earnest’?” The answer, as he sees it, is
“the inadequacy of the mediiim.” It might
with equal justice be asked how an etching
would “do” the books mentioned, or how
the stage would produce the Mona Lisa,
or how a sonata would interpret Darwin’s
“Origin of Species.” The simple explana-
tion is that it is quite unfair to expect any
art to compete directly with another in the
latter’s most peculiar sphere and along its
most characteristic lines of technique—-a
truth taught by Lessing some 200 years ago.
The foregoing comments, by the nature
of the case, have touched scarcely at all
upon. points of creative criticism. For
those, however, who are able and willing to
see. there are already many auspicious signs
and heartening omeris, sufficient to create
in the hearts of us, her true admirers,
abundant confidence that, when the
magic hour arrives, this Cinderella of
the arts, gracious with all the sweet pride
of her revealed beauty, will meet and wed
her Prince Charming of true nobility and
(pardon the Cockney pun!) high heart.
RICHARD MEREDITH.
The Bunyip’s Cousin
Harry Burrell, in The Platypus (Angus
and Robertson), has been at extraordinary
pains to rob us of some more of the pictur-
esque articles of faith that lent such an
interest to the days when we robbed birds’
nests, poked ’possums out of hollow trees,
knew that the death-adder stung with his
tail and had strong beliefs in the Bunyip.
For 20 years he has been engaged in this
disruptive work, and the result is such a
fascinating book about Ornithorhynchus
Analinus —he has not left us even the good
old name—that it is certain he will earn
the forgiveness of everybody. It is to be
hoped, however, that he will permit us to
keep the Bunyip.
There was never such a subject for imagi-
nation and conjecture as the quaint little
creature that this volume explains so well.
From almost the vety first days of white
settlement in the continent, Ornithorhynchus
became a topic of marvelling discussion
and that vague ’wonderment at the inexplic-
able which lends such a zest to the specula-
tions of unscientific investigators. “The
Kangaroo,” says David Collins, writing in
1797, “the Dog, the Opossum, the Flying
Squirrel, the Kangaroo Rat, a spotted Rat,
the common Rat, and the large Fox-bat (if
entitled to a place in this society) made up
the whole catalogue of animals' that was
known at this time, with the exception
which must now be made of an amphibious
animal, of the mole species, one of which
had been lately found on the banks of a
lake near the Hawkesbury.” Next year a
specimen was sent to England, and the
scientific people could hardly credit the fact
that it was not an early example of the
subsequently so thoroughly developed Aus-
tralian idiosyncrasy of “leg-pulling.” An
eminent naturalist, George Shaw; who made
the earliest scientific examination of the
queer little beast, frankly admits that his
first impression of it was that it was a fake
—something akin to the “eastern mermaid,”
still to be found occasionally in English
curiosity shops, which is made up of the
skin of the forepart of a monkey cunningly
sewn to the tgil part of a fish. “Of all the
Mammalia yet known,” he says, “it seems
the most extraordinary in its conformation,
exhibiting the perfect resemblance of the
beak of a Duck engrafted on the head of a
quadruped.” Many years went by before
the naturalists began to be in any sort of
agreement about this’ disturbing speoies.
Whether it was oviparous or viviparous
kept them in argument for nearly a century.
It was not until 1884 that W. H. Caldwell,
a Cambridge zoologist investigating in
Queensland, found incontrovertible evidence
that Ornithorhynchus laid eggs.
Burrell has studied in the minutest fashion
every peculiarity and characteristic of his
little friend—but always with an extremely
open mind. A passage in which he explains
the limitations of the human observer in
studying Ornithorhynchus, and all other
animals, is very well worth quoting, not
only as illustrating the spirit in which the
author investigated his subject and arrived
at his exclusions, but also as an example
of the style of the book. Not every writer
of scientific treatises can invest them with
so much charm:—
“The psychology and sensory perceptions
of animals other than ourselves present a
very difficult field for investigation. Phil-
osophers have never tired of telling us that
the world about us is, though not exactly a
figment of our imagination, yet an illusion
due to the limitations of our sensory percep-
tions. The physicist further confuses our
simple minds by supporting the philosopher
with a statement that the trees and grass and
bricks and mortar which We imagine we see
are mere buzzings of electrons. We have,
it is true, a proper scorn for these attempts
to befog us; yet, when we come to inquire
into the mental attributes or sense-reactions
of any animal other than ourselves, we are
brought up sharply by an uneasy suspicion
that the philosopher may be right. Fabre,
describing the behavior of a wasp, may record
all its visible actions with scrupulous accu-
racy ; when he comes to interpretation of
them, he can interpret only in terms of
Henri Fabre. We cannot project our minds
into the minds of any other animal; nor
can we be sure that any other animal sees,
smells, tastes, hears or feels just what we see,
smell, taste, hear and feel. In fact, we
know that there are differences, that our
eyesight is much inferior to that of the vul-
tures, our sense of smell to that of predatory
carnivorous mammals in general, and so on.
There is also plenty of evidence that other
animals possess sensory perceptions denied to
(Continued on page 5.)


Anthony Horderns'
Ready-to-wear Suits
i.
)
s^-
The "Palace” Hat
They are of high-grade soft Fur Felt. Made in six
new shapes, including the "Nail Curl,” "Snap Down,”
and the "Prince,” bound or plain edge brims, 2\ or
2| inches wide; greaseproof head leathers. In newest
shades of Slate, Zinc, Steel, Light Grey,
and Beaver Fawn
21/-
The "Tree”
Men’s "Tree” Brand Shoes are obtain-
able in the following smart leather:
Box Calf, Nigger Calf, Tan Calf,
Glace Kid and Patent. In three smart
shapes. Each of the several styles
has genuine welted soles.
In all sizes
19/11
Ready-to-wear at - - 59/6
Men’s Superior Quality Sac Suits of All Wool Tweed. Coat
has two button front, double breasted lapels; no vent. Vests
have medium opening; trousers have cuff bottoms, hip and side
pockets. The latest style features are embodied and the
material is of excellent quality. In dark shades of
Grey and Brown
C O /
-/-✓/ vJ
Also in Navy Serge. Guaranteed dye .. , 957-
Better qualities 105/-, 110/-, 115/-, 120/-
Worsted Sac Suits
105/-
Men’s Worsted Sac Suits. Made in Anthony Horderns’ work-
rooms and smartly cut by experts. The coat has a two button
front, outside breast pocket; no vent. Vest has a fashionable
medium opening and four pockets. Trousers possess side or
cross and hip pockets; cuff bottoms. Select from English and
Australian Worsteds. In medium or dark shades of
Grey. Plain striped or check effects
-| riq* /
WJ J I m
Better qualities • 95/- to 126/-
Boys’
Durham Suits
The "Durham” Suit for boys is well cut from All Wool fancy
Tweeds, in good serviceable shades. Made by Anthony
Horderns’ from materials selected for their hard wearing
qualities. The coat has plain or belted back, patch pockets
and double breasted lapel. It is a suit that will give good
service and stand severe hard usage of the school
boy. With plain knickers
/
/ m
Other Values 32/6, 37/6, 42/- to 60/-
With band and button knickers 28/6
Other Values 35/-, 40/-, 45/- to 62/6
**•
&
\\
from
26/.
Anthony
Horderns'
We pay carriage on all
these goods in N.S.W ♦
SYDNEY
Postal Address :
Box No . 271 1 C, G.P.O.


ħ
IMITTfI |N
mj
9 K*SI
JEPEHIND the wheel of
any Chrysler you will
discover all the verve
and youthful dash of
flashing performance;
the glowing pride of
its trim smartness and
sparkling beauty; a
sense of sheer luxuri*
ousness and the persis*
tent consciousness of
lasting quality.
CHRYSLER
“70”
Sport Phaeton
Two Seater
Brougham
Coupe
Royal Sedan
Cabriolet
Crown Sedan
AUSTRALIAN AND NEW ZEALAND DISTRIBUTORS.
N.S.W.: Larke Neave & Carter Ltd., Grenville House, William Street, Sydney.
Vic.: Collins Motors Pty., Ltd., Chrysler House, Collins Street, Melbourne.
Qld.: Ward Motors Limited, Wickham Street, Brisbane.
Sth. Aust.: O. T. Rodda Motors Ltd., Flinders Street, Adelaide.
West. Aust.: William Attwood, 299-301 Murray Street, Berth.
Tas.: Distributors Pty., Ltd., 162 Collins Street, Hobart.
N.Z.: Todd Motor Company, 97 Courtenay Place, Wellington.
BUILT AS ONLY CHRYSLER BUILDS


The spacious decks of the
Orient Line steamers afford
the fullest opportunities for
sport and amusement.
ORIENT LINE
2, hi 6 Spring Street, Sydney.
Branches and Agencies throughout Australia and New Zealand.
ns. This being a matter which seriously
affects human prestige, we hasten to reassure
ourselves by means of a dogmatic statement
that we reason, while the rest of the animal
kingdom, unable to indulge in this majestic
process, is at the mercy of tropisms and
instincts.”
With tireless experiment and observation
the author has investigated the functions
of the spurs on the hind legs of the male,
with the venomous secretion of the crural
gland connected with them—a question
that has been as prolific of argument, among
both bushmen and scientists, as the breed-
ing habits of marsupials—and has concluded
that they have two principal uses, first as
military equipment, and secondly for holding
the female during the initial act of repro-
duction. His patient reasoning is more
than convincing, as it is in his intensely
interesting observations upon the nesting
and burrowing activities of this ingenious
little engineer and home-builder. How Mrs.
Ornithorhynchus bores her long breeding
burrow—which is quite distinct from the
hole she ordinarily lives in—and then forti-
fies it against invasion by a series of plugs,
or walls of tamped earth (as many as nine,
9in. thick, have been noted in a burrow), is a
most remarkable bit of natural history,
delightfully detailed and explained. How
she suckles her babies without teats, feeds
them during adolescence, and how they look
after themselves in later life, conduct their
love affairs, and amuse themselves in idle
moments—all about them is clearly and con-
clusively told. And wherever Burrell has
to guess, he tells you so. But so patiently
and minutely has he studied every aspect
of his subject that it is very rarely he has
to make such an admission.
It is a fascinating book, not only for Aus-
tralians, but for all the world outside, where
Ornithorhynchus is as famous as an Anzac,
and is so well written as to escape the
slightest suspicion of dryness. It is a work
that was as necessary as it has been well
done, and its publication puts Australia
still more in debt to the firm which has
given us the “Australian Encyclopaedia.”
But, as has been said above, it is to be
hoped that Harry Burrell will leave us our
Bunyip, now that he has abolished all our
pleasant delusions concerning the platypus.
J. H. M. ABBOTT.
Status for the Author
It is an undoubted fact, as Arthur
Adams points out, that, unlike the painter
or sculptor, the Australian writer has no
status in the life of the community. He is
worse off in Melbourne or Sydney than in
almost any other city with cultural preten-
sions. It comes as a surprise to an Aus-
tralian writer in London or New York to
discover that, however unimportant indi-
vidually he may be, he belongs to an honor-
able and respected craft. For the first time
in his life he finds himself at least on the
level of a lawyer’s clerk or a grocer’s assist-
ant. He may live shabbily enough, in
Bloomsbury or Washington-square; but he
has his own clubs, haunts and associates
that, despite fluctuations of fortune, uphold
the dignity of letters.
In Australia the literary man has no status
at all. If Sydney is bad, Melbourne is
much worse. We do nothing for ourselves
or anybody else. Consider our treatment of
Leonard Merrick, an English writer of dis-
tinction who spent many months amongst
us. As far as the writers were concerned
he was absolutely ignored. It was not dis-
courtesy, it was simply bashfulness, for we
appear to be a modest lot suffering from an
inferiority complex. None of us thought
that a writer of Merrick’s reputation could
conceivably want to see us. But we were
wrong. He would much rather have met,
quietly and casually, even the poorest mem-
bers of his own craft than the society people
who with the best of intentions probably
succeeded in boring him stiff. Merrick was
not only keenly interested in what was
being done in Australia, but ready to help
with sympathetic advice even on such prac-
tical matters as literary agencies and current
magazine rates. No one knew better the
perils of the Inky Way in London and New
York or could-relate with more humor the
adventures of many famous literary way-
farers. Yet, we were unable to manage even
a little dinner of welcome such as he re-
ceived in less important towns in the United
States.
1 here are many reasons for our inepti-
tude. The daily-paper journalist has im-
proved his position to such an extent that
he is easily the aristocrat of the world of
letters. The A.J.A. must have put in some
good spade-work to achieve this result, for
journalism nowadays is quite as good a pro-
fession as law or medicine. But it has done
nothing for the writer, as distinct from the
journalist—the short-story writer, for ex-
ample, or the writer of verse. He is still
an outsider, who has to accept any condi-
tions, as his work is not regarded as neces-
sary. His- position is inferior to that of a
junior reporter, whose interests have been
carefully safeguarded. But anything is good
enough for the writer, who is more or less
distrusted as a conceited highbrow. Many
journals, which pay only on publication,
think nothing of delaying payment for
accepted contributions ” for three or six
months. It shows that the writer, journalisti-
cally speaking, is a person of no importance.
" ut worse than the economic position is
probably our own lack of esprit de corps.
We seem so busy abusing one another that
we have no time to present a solid front to
tne common enemy. But our squabbles
are more technical than personal. The
Symbolist may abuse the Realist for the
error of his literary ways, or the other way
round, and yet like and respect his fellow-
craftsman. Painters and musicians and,
pre-eminently, actors know better. What-
ever they think of the other fellow person-
ally, they make it a rule always to praise
his work. This isn’t honest; but the writers
have carried honesty to a point that simply
misleads the public. Australian painting is
appreciated and bought, as it should be, but
the general opinion is that Australian litera-
ture is on a much lower plane and unworthy
of serious consideration.
For this state of affairs we are partly to
blame ourselves. We need some organisa-
tion, as Arthur Adams suggests, some
Authors’ Association that, apart from per-
sonalities, woidd uphold the dignity of the
literary craft. We don’t want patrons or
stunts or prizes that would be more likely
to create jealousy than harmony, but we do
want a body of real professional writers,
dilettanti barred, who would officially, and
pugnaciously where necessary, represent
Australian literature.
LOUIS ESSON.
The Australian Composer
Some recent Red Page contributors were
unfair to Australian music-publishers, and
“Loc” (R.P. 3/2,/’27) put the case for them
quite justly. Dr. Keith Barry was kind
enough to mention my own work; but he
was quite wrong with regard to my rela-
tions with Australian publishers. Would
it interest Red Page readers to hear why
I left Australia?
I was born and brought up in Melbourne,
so that, naturally, my work was submitted to
Allan and Co., of that city. I have never
shown work to any publisher in Sydney, so
the statement of the Sydney publisher that
he, “in common with other local firms, re-
fused to touch my compositions” is incorrect.
I had written songs since I was eight years
old, but naturally for a good many years
never thought much about them. Mv
sister, however, had more belief in them than
I had, and, unknown to me, took a song
to Allan and Co. They were most encourag-
ing and said they would like to have more
work from me. I published some songs
and song-albums with Allan’s, and then one
day Charles Tait said that he wondered I
did not try my luck in London, as there
would be so much more scope there. And
that was how my thoughts turned to
England. I owe everything to the belief
Mv. George Sutherland, of Allan’s, had in
my work, and without his encouragement
at the beginning I should never have done
anything. So far from Allan’s not encourag-
ing me, they did quite the reverse. They
gave a little recital of my works in their
own building, and helped me in many ways.
My experience of publishers in Australia
is that they are kind and helpful people.
When I went to England Allan and Co.
gave me three letters to publishers— to
Enoch’s, Chappell’s and Boosey’s, and the
purport, as far as I can remember, was the
same in each case —that any courtesy shown
me would be appreciated by Messrs. Allan,
and that I had published some songs with
them. I went to Enoch’s first; when they
saw the work I had with me, they asked
me to stay with them as one of their com-
posers, and I was with them till this year,
when, owing to the failure of the firm, I
made a contract with Boosey and Co., and
there I hope to remain. I still feel that
there is more scope here, as London is a
clearing house for the world.
Population must affect the sales of a song
in Australia (I speak of songs because I
know most about that side of the music
trade), though there is no reason why Aus-
tralia should not develop an export business
in songs. I don’t know if that is what it
should be called, but I was thinking of all
the queer places that I know my songs are
sent to.
It is not hard to get in touch with pub-
lishers here—my knowledge is that, apart
from the trade depression, which has affected
music badly, the publishers consider any-
thing that has a glimmer of possibility, as
they are always hoping to discover talent.
But, naturally, they are out to drive as
advantageous a bargain for themselves as
they can, and that is where it is as well to
ask someone who knows the ropes before
signing too much.
LONDON.
MAY H. BAHR.
Is It Morals We Need?
Perhaps I can offer something towards a
solution of the problem that disturbs
“W.K.H.” (R.P. 2/6/’27).
Promiscuity is something more than “a
matter of fastidiousness.” Nature, 'which
must be a party to all these agreements,
requires a longer union for the protection
of the resultant offspring. “W.K.H.” thinks
“the querulous voice of conscience will
only reproach and recriminate. It can
offer no solution.” Even if it cannot, it
provides no. grounds for assuming that there
is, therefore, no solution. And there is a
solution. Startling as it may sound to
modern ears, it is the ages-old solution—
continence.
An honorable man, a moral man, has
choice of these alternatives—continence, or
indulgence with its natural responsibilities.
Nature has merely fixed her inexorable laws.
The race, perforce, has started where she
has stopped. Urged by religion, reason and
self-interest, it has legislated for the mar-
riage bond. This is wisdom, for there is
no better way. The race has a moral
right to order, and disobedience is morally
wrong.
J.J. M.
Novels Worth Reading
This list has been compiled by a commit-
tee nominated by the Associated Book-
sellers of Australia and Maoriland. It is
issued to serve as a reliable guide to fiction
of merit:—
Books of Literary Merit : The Old
Countess, by Anne D. Sedgwick; Tampico,
by Joseph Hergesheimer; Elmer Gantry, by
Sinclair Lewis; The Sun in Splendor, by
Thomas Burke.
Books for Popular Reading : Cherry
Square, by Grace Richmond ; Gates of Brass,
by Joan Sutherland; The Saving Clause,
by “Sapper”; The Old Countess, by Anne
D. Sedgwick; Goblin Market, by 11. de Vere
Stacpoole; Revelry, by Samuel Adams;
Elmer Gantry, by Sinclair Lewis; Pulling
the Strings, by F. E. Penny; The Man
They Couldn’t Arrest, by “Seamark” ; Bold
Bendigo, by Paul Herring; Five Winds, by
Marjorie Bowen ; Blind Corner, by D. Yates;
Tampico, by Joseph Hergesheimer.
A Satchel of Books
The King’s Enemies, by Reginald Camp-
bell (Chapman and Hall). In this novel
the author carries his reader through the
war into the days of peace and the troublous
after-time of unrest and unemployment. A
vigorous book with an interesting plot.
Impetuous Betty, by C. E. Rose (Duck-
worth). A difficult young lady, Betty, and
bound to weave about her a net of troubles.
How she became entangled in its meshes and
was rescued by Jimmy Lansdale is told in
a chippy way that holds the interest.
Essays of To-day and Yesterday (liar-
rap). Recent additions to this series include
the essays of Robert Blatchford and Dion
Clayton Cal thorp, dramatist and story-teller.
Calthorp is a critic of costume and has some
hard things to say about the dress of the
modern man. “We look,” lie says, “like so
many clerks hesitating between mourning and
vulgarity.”
Baron Friedrich von Hiigcl (Dent). A
collection of selected letters from the corres-
pondence of one of the most prominent figures
in the Modernist movement in the Roman
Catholic Church during the late nineteenth
and early twentieth century. The letters are
prefaced with a memoir by the late Bernard
Holland, who does justice to an earnest and
a spiritually-minded man.
Backhloclc Ballads, by .Tack Mathien
(Watson, Ferguson, Brisbane). These are
virile and humorous out-back rhymes re-
printed chiefly from The Bulletin
He sang about this land of ours,
And that is why this land of ours,
With every breath and hand of ours,
Is out to toot and twang.
He’s long said his “so-longs” to us,
And left the bi 11a bongs to us;
But first he sang some songs to us:
We’ll play you what he sang.
He has been blind for many years.
The Kangaroo Islanders, by W. A. Gaw-
thorne (Rigby). This story was written in
3 854 and presented a picture of life in
South Aus. before the colonisation of that
State. It is now reprinted. Kangaroo Island
lies off the entrance to the Gulf of St. Vin-
cent and was used as a sealing-station by
Americans as early as 1803. By 1827 the
place contained the community written of
in this book. At that date Lockyer described
its inhabitants as “a complete set of pirates
going from island to island along the southern
coast, from Rottnest to Bass Straits, having
their chief resort or den at Kangaroo Island,
making occasional descents on the mainland
and carrying off by force females.” Although
cast in the form of a story of adventure,
the book has historic value.
The Revolt, of Asia, the End of the White
Man’s World-Dominance, by Upton Close
(Cornstalk Publishing Co., Sydney). An
American view of the Chinese flurry, by
a professor whose real name is Josef Wash-
ington Ilall. He indicates that the China-
man is not looking so much for “friendship
and regard” as for a knock-out, and he is
quite certain the yellow man will give it.
lie can’t quite hide his exultation that it
is the British Empire which will receive
the buffet, though he is also a frank critic
of his own country’s hypocritical pretence
of being non-imperialistic.
International Law, by the Earl of Birken-
head (Dent). The sixth edition of this stan-
dard work has been brought up to date by
Mr. Moelwyn-Hughes. New chapters on the
League of Nations and the Permanent Court
of International Justice are included, and in
view of the experience furnished by the
Great War the chapters on blockade and
contraband have been rewritten. Also an
attempt has been made to consider the result
of the Imperial conference of 3926, by which
the principles of equality were fully recog-
nised for the first time in relation to the
status of Great Britain and the Dominions.
It is pointed out that at present those prin-
ciples do not universally extend to function.
“In the conduct of foreign affairs generally,
as in matters of military and naval responsi-
bility, the greater burden remains, and must
continue to remain, on the shoulders of the
Government of Great Britain.”
Byways of Romance, by Francis Jackson
(Vidler). Australia is not rich in essayists.
We should therefore be grateful to the pio-
neers in the work of building uii for us a
finer taste in letters than marks the passing
fiction of our day. As Mr. Holman in a
preface to this well produced volume re-
marks : “Much travel-literature is written in
a language not understood of Australians.
The time spirit and the associations which the
old-world author takes for granted are lack-
ing in his new-world readers. No such chasm
separates this essayist from us. He is one
of us. He shares and understands our per-
haps too brisk mentality, and knows exactly
how and where it needs a broader outlook.”
The 39 essays in the book, several of them
reprinted from The Bulletin, range from
“The Moulin Rouge” to “Rubens at Ant-
werp” ; from “Autumn Tints Round London”
to “The Paganism of Shakspeare”; from “The
Testament of a Dominie” to “Dawn on the
Kurrajong.” With this wide range every
reader should find sufficient food for his
mental interests. The writer’s style is lucid
and cultured and leaves no impression of
artificiality. The book should be widely read
not only as an Australian work of letters,
but for its intrinsic literary value.


The Wonderful "Lock-Grip" Wire Strainer
m
IW6 ffCPoiCflw V
Simple, Pfrfrerful, Kapid.
TIME. MONEY/f.WD ENERGY SAVED.
Here is a tool thaJt absolutely v-siWipses anything
invented toijiythe straining or fencing wires
on a io\& Joins,
vith the ease Itn /enormous
__ iTirated puwih/tnakes light oCirfiy fencing
UTisile cannot slap
4lb., xtmp&iyCis' l 4 inches. It can
be earned in your yet it will pull you-
motor-cai out of
Get one and testvA—there's no risk Failure
or breakuge impossible. Thousands sold —
everyone delighted.
Price 30/* each. Victorian postage, 1/6
Interstate, 2/8 (plus exchange)
Obtainable everywhere, or write the Agents
S. COHEN, SONS & (JO PTY., LTD,
Hardware Merchants.
262 Oueen Street. MELBOURNE
»
'LI
mT-
Cuticura Talcum
Is The Ideal Powder
Its purity, smoothness and fra-
grance, combined with antiseptic
and prophylactic properties which
help to overcome disagreeable
odors, make it an essential toilet
requisite.
Soap ls„Talcum 15.3 d., Ointment Is. and
2s. For sample Soap and Ointment ad-
dress: “R.Towns& Co., Sydney, N.S.W.”
mr- Cuticura Shaving Stick Is. 6d.
Keep hopping and hoping if you wish
to succeed
w
THINK OF
SCHUTE,
BELL&CIm.
If you have
Wool & Skins
to Sell.
Personal Attention.
Office!: 44 Bridge Street, Sydney.
lo v a'
CASH SI
WASHABLE \
RIBBONS'
For the ‘Dainty Finishing
Touches to Your Lingerie
jyjADE in Plain or Bro-
caded Styles in Pretty
Pastel Shades up to 1-in.
widths no need to re-
move CASH’S RIBBONS
from garment before
washing as they retain
Colour and Freshness in-
definitely.
oAsk Your Draper
IF UNOBTAINABLE WRITE TO
J. & J. CASH PTY. LTD.
Cubitt St., Richmond
MELBOURNE
1
CASH'S*
.RIBBONS,
YOUR FIT in
Width and Length
39/6
per pair.
For exact, comfortable fit, this Abbey
Black Velour Calf Shoe offers the
advantages of one made-to-order.
That is because you are afforded
choice of three widths in each half-
size. It would be hard to get closer to
the measure of any normal foot.
No risk of cramping. The shoe is
built on a special last, carefully
moulded to natural shape. Neatly
arched at instep and close-fitting at
ankle, it is both strong and flexible.
ORDER BY POST
The photo demonstrates the smart-
ness of the shoe. State whether narrow,
medium or wide fitting is needed.
ABBEY
Established over 80 years,
313 George St, and 224 Pitt St„
L 27. SYDNEY.
i
m
ss
«a.
2V
Easiest and
handiest for
everyday
sweeping
Cl/HEN the meal is over, the
sewing- done or the children
through playing, then is when
the wonderful handiness of the
always ready Bissell Carpet
Sweeper is appreciated.
It sweeps up dirt and dust, lint and
litter quickly, quietly and thoroughly,
does it at a saving of time, money,
work and brooms, and lasts for many
years. Only sheer merit plus superior
mechanical construction could have
given it the world-wide reputation it
enjoys.
Bissell “Cyco” ball bearing con-
struction, an exclusive Bissell feature,
puts the bearings in each wheel where
they do the most good and ensures
better sweeping, easier running, long-
er wear.
Little Bissells for little girls at trifling cost
make useful gifts and happy children. Sold
by leading merchants everywhere. Write for
booklet.
Bissell
CARPET SWEEPER CO.. GRAND RAPIDS. MICH. U. S. A.
Carpet Sweepers
VAMOUS VERSE
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Suburbs.
Dreary miles of pave and kerb
Where no city sounds disturb,
Yet beneath the sagging wires
Hearts beat with their mute desires.
Mathematical and neat,
Grimly desolate each street —
Villas with their patch of green
And their little backyards mean.
Sound of slowly passing hoofs ;
Sunlight flung on red-tiled roofs ;
And on dim and drizzling nights
Necklaces of lamp-post lights.
Then at every painted gate
Children for their father wait,
hook, the cheery lights that show
In each little bungalow !
Yet how late that lamp alight!
Doctor's car and wailing mite;
Here upon the same hushed breath
Birth and honeymoon and death.
Like the toilers of the hive
For mere sustenance they strive;
Yet amid that myriad swarm
Love comes laughinglow and warm!
And behind the butcher's cart
Lovers whisper, heart to heart;
Dull routine and labor long
Leave on lips a little song.
Would an angel looking down
On the suburbs of the town
Wonder at this incomplete
Drama of their lives’ deceit?
Yet from these unlikely things
Come our poets and our kings;
From the mirk there shoots a flame—
Jesus from a suburb came.
N.S.W.
ARTHUR H. ADAMS.
Value Adjusted.
My lover vexed me lately in some fashion
Which had not hurt me had I loved him less;
Something my face had shown of bitterness,
Breaking upon the blindness of his passion,
ilis careless-confident “Forgive me!” smiling,
Nothing regretted. “Always you forgive!”
I waked to sudden knowledge. “So I live,
Easily purchased with such light beguiling.”
And always I forgive, always, always!
I count a merit to my heart in this,
My heart that knows a disillusion proved,
And nought of its awakening betrays.
Never do I forgive, beneath his kiss;
Never have I forgiven—only loved.
W.A.
ETHEL DAVIES.
Having All Things.
I builded me a palace
With pearls set in the door,
I made me great pillars
Set slantwise in the floor.
I bought me a maiden
And took her for my wife;
But where is the young lad
Who played at life?
Peacocks on the terrace
And pages by my chair;
But where is Melisande who sat
Combing down her hair?
On couches made of amethyst
Great ladies lie ;
But where is the young lad
That once was I?
A rose in my two hands,
A rose upon my mouth,
Answers and answers
And cannot quench my drouth.
For lips that would not linger,
For sweet hands that passed
Like birds in the sunlight
I long at the last.
Purple and amber
And ivory and gold
Are all the same color
When the night grows old.
I stretch my hand and take you
As the last stars depart;
But a memory of kisses
Lies hid beneath my heart
Where you can never find them,
Hid beneath my heart.
MAORILAND.
BETTIE RIDDELL.
Gold of the Gorse.
“While the gold is on the gorse,”
Still his vow rings clear,
Though long years have run their course
“I'll be true, my dear,
Till the stream flows to its source.”
He wed within the year.
Never fails the gold of gorse.
Though bright summer’s fled •
Now, by hill and watercourse,
See its spring-tide spread.
Stirs his heart in swift remorse
For our brief love dead?
Ebbs the glowing flow’ry tide,
Scattered pools remain;
Fairy gold our love that died,
Newer loves we feign ;
Yet the gorse in golden pride
Brings a stab of pain.
VICTORIA.
EMEL.
The Hilltop.
Morning ’tis, a winter morning,
Early morning, keen and chill;
Yet the sun shines down adorning
Beach and hollow, sea and hill.
From this hilltop, health inbreathing,
Far from town and toil and care,
Lowland mists I see upwreathing,
Mounting, melting in the air.
While around me doves are cooing,
And the notes of thrushes swell,
Privileged am I in viewing
Morn’s amazing miracle.
Privileged and all delighted
Am I hither to have strayed,
Like a chosen guest invited
To a feast by Beauty laid.
Soothed by zephyrs, soft and tender,
Bathed in sunshine, golden, rare,
Poured for me is wine of splendor,
Bread of glory is. my fare.
Never, never rarest vintage,
Ne ver bread of flour and yeast,
Never gold of mortal mintage
Made a richer, fairer feast.
By no cares assailed, assaulted,
Birds about me warbling clear—
Should I not feel all exalted,
Breakfasting with Beauty here?
On this hilltop in the morning
Privileged I am to be,
While the sun climbs up, adorning
Beach and hollow, hill and sea.
N.S.W.
RODERIC QUINN.
The Gleam.
This morning seems, so fair and pale,
A princess in some fairy tale;
No dancer, sinuous and sweet,
Away on golden sandalled feet,
Holding, in Dawn’s uplifted glass,
The death-wine of Herodias;
But one who fares by quiet ways
Beyond the desert of the days.
The distance grows—not Fairyland,
For that is banal now, and banned
By those sad children, all too wise,
Who never saw with Childhood’s eyes.
Not Fairyland—but some strange clime,
Undreamed of since the dawn of Time,
Come, with dim hills and haunted wood,
To stand where Fairyland once stood.
I cannot sing of love to-day.
The quiet morning whispers: “Stay!
The pipers of the grasses blow
A sweeter tune than you may know;
Across the waters of unrest
The fleet-sails flame on many a quest;
But life sounds ne’er a challenge here
Upon the trumpet of a fear!”
This morning seems a memory,
A dream of years that used to be—
Too dim for joy, too dear for pain,
That for a brief while lives again.
And, as one last resurgent ray
Crowns dusk and proves the death of day,
So golden seems its youth to be
I know Youth’s self is gone from me!
QUEENSLAND.
J. HOLLOWAY.
South Creek, Narrabeen Lake.
I love a glade where beauty dwells
And agfed trees give restful shade,
That calls to mind the fairy dells
Wherein the elves and pixies played.
There shadows on the waters lie
Like paintings on a canvas old;
And as the sun’s hot glances die,
The tinting fades from blue to gold.
There calm upon the spirit steals,
As softly as the peace that creeps
To some tired infant as it feels
Its mother’s kiss ere yet it sleeps.
N.S.W.
RAJA.
Trouble.
Even in sleep I remember;
Even in sleep it seems
I struggle in pain’s possessing
In the tangled web of dreams.
Something that smothers under
Darkling tides below
The meshes of sleep draw upward
Where the dream flotillas go.
Something that goes in shadow
Shunning the light of day, .
Drifts through the empty dwelling
When the weary mind’s away.
Even in sleep I remember
llow joy went by the Foard,
When faith w r as a fallen banner
And hope flung down the sword.
With pride for an only ally
I have set my lips to a smile ;
But my heart, deep under and under,
Drip-drops with blood the while.
From these vulture talons of trouble
My heart would hide; and yet
Even in sleep I remember
And cannot forget, forget.
VICTORIA.
KATHLEEN DALZIEL.


Efficiency pays
Dividends!
The five famous Chartres lines featured on this page are essential for
office efficiency—each of them saving much time, labor and worry. They
quickly pay for their installation in increased dividends. Ask for
demonstration or free trial.
mm
This Sundstrand Junior
Adding-Listing machine
is universally popular,
because it is the sim-
plest, fastest and most
dependable. It has
only 10 keys, and can
’be operated rapidly by
anyone after a few
minutes’ practice. Prices
from £33. Ten years’
guarantee. Free trial..
-/S*
Nw 4 **”
Here you see the Remington Rapid Rotary Duplicator, the finest duplicating
machine on the market. Produces 6000 copies per hour of any typewritten
or handwritten matter at a fraction the cost of ordinary printing. An
absolute necessity for every class of business. Terms arranged.
J ! ?'
did t*
lit i |!t;t »
it I*l m
Hi#
St.SS
SI
*SS
r is
4.M
Mi
At left is pictured a set
of Kardex Visible In-
dexing Cabinets in-
stalled in a department
of Dalgety & Co., Ltd.,
Sydney a system
which is proving a boon
to hundreds of pro-
gressive firms. Kardex
gives you all the vital
facts at a glance. Its
introduction has ren-
dered the old recording
systems obsolete. A
revelation in efficiency!
UPPER RAM.
PORTION OF LOWER RAIL CUT AWAY
TOTALIZER POSITION INDICATOR
TOTALIZER LATCH
Ov
By simply attaching the little totalising device, you turn a Remington
Typewriter into a wonderful accounting machine, which automatically
adds and subtracts. The Remington Accounting Machine is really
four machines in one. It writes your letters, tabulates your figures,
types and adds your invoices, copies your statements, and adds and
proves the accuracy of the work. Ask for a demonstration.
FULL PARTICULARS OF ABOVE MACHINES FROM -
Chartres Ltd.
Chartres Ltd., Sydney
(Late Stott & Hoare & Chartres, Ltd.),
Chartres Pty., Ltd.
Melbourne.
f %
/
The Spool-O-Wire Fastener is a handy littl
device for stapling paper, cardboard, fabric,
etc. It will bind from 2 to 50 sheets of
paper neatly and quickly. Makes 15,000
staples from one Spool-O-Wire before
reloading is necessary. In view of
its great utility and modest price,
the Spool-O-Wire stapler should
be in every office.
Chartres, Ltd.,
Adelaide.
SEND
ME
PARTICULARS
OF
NAME
ADDRESS.
B. 7/’27^


9
&
m
J
ii'
rf!
£
\S&.'
IHHi
■
: ■
i
US
Our registered Great Western
Sparkling Wine label has been
shamefully copied. We warn the
public against spurious imitations.
/


The Bulletin
Vol. 48—No. 2473.
July 7, 1927.
THE BIDDING IS BRISK.
“As the N.S.W. General Election approaches, the leaders of all three political parties increase their promises to the electors. Mr. Lang, being in the happy
position of controlling the Treasury, has ordered his Ministers to give wages to every unemployed who asks for them, and the first payment under the Family Main-
tenance Law will be rushed through just before election day.”


The Bulletin
THE NATIONAL AUSTRALIAN NEWSPAPER
“Australia for the White Man.”
Printed and published by William Macleod, o
Musgrave ana McLeod Streets, Mosman, foi
Bulletin Newspaper Co., Ltd., at the Othce of tn
Co., 214 George Street, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia.
Meldourne Office: 154-162 Flinders Street.
London Office: No. 1 Wardour Street (near Picca-
dilly Circus), W.l.
PUBLISHED ONCE A WEEK.
TERMS TO SUBSCRIBERS
(In Advance only).
Posted to any address in Australasia, weekly.
12 months, £1 J/s.; 6 months, 12s. 6d.; 3 won ins, is.
To any address Overseas: 12 months, £1 10s.; o
months, 15s. 6d.; S months, Bs.
Cheques, drafts, etc., which should be crossed, and
all /Justness Communications to be addressed to the
Manager.
Special Notice.
Alt correspondence to be addressed to Box 2521 8.8.,
G.P.U., Sydney. . .
Insufficiently stamped letters are liable to oe
refused. . ~
The contents of this paper are copyright by the
publishers. The right to reproduce or translate any
part of the contents of this number is hereby expressly
reserved by the publishers.
The Editor will carefully read and, where practic-
able, acknowledge in the “Correspondence’ column
all contributions submitted, whether in the form of
Political, Social or other Articles, Verse, Short dales
or Sketches (those dealing with Australian subjects
and not exceeding two columns in length, or, say,
5000 words, are specially acceptable), Paragraphs,
Letters or Newspaper Clippings. All communications
will be regarded as strictly confidential.
The Bulletin will return all unsuitable MS. when
the address is specified and stamps are enclosed. But
no MS. will be returned or preserved unless these
conditions are observed. When MS. is forwarded
without stamps for returit it will be understood that
the copy is to be destroyed if not acceptable. Per-
sonal applications for return of MS. cannot receive
attention. Further, The Bulletin desires those
sending MS. to distinctly understand that .it is not
responsible for the preservation or transmission of MS.
To Amateurs in Black and White.
Anyone supplying to Tiie Bulletin original
humorous or other topical drawings in line or wash,
of sufficient merit and interest and, adapted for
direct reproduction, or any interesting photograph
illustrative of a current event will be paid for same
on acceptance. Any picture containing a good idea
but unfitted for direct reproduction —i.e., any picture
which has to be re-drawn —will be paid for as a
suggestion only. The conditions under which such
artistic contributions will be received are those
applying to M.S.
To Travellers Abroad.
“The Bulletin’s” representative in London is
L. St. C. Grondona. No. 1 Wardour Street
(near Piccadilly Circus), W.l. Copies of
“The Bulletin” can he obtained from him or
tiie bookstall in the Main Hall at Australia
House. Also from Messrs. Gordon and Gotch. 75-
7V Farringdon Street, London, E.G.).; and IF. Daw-
son and Sons, Camion House, Breams Buildings,
London, E.C.lj.; E. T. Hole, Holerth Satire Ser-
vice, Ifi Fleet Street, London E.C.; “The British
Australian and New Zealander,” Jjl.'i-17 Australia
House, Strand, London, 1 V.C.2; F. Algar, 58 Grace-
church Street, London, EC.3.
South Africa. —The Central News Agency, Cape-
town, Durban and Johannesburg; Dawson and Son,
Capetown and Johannesburg; Havana House, Durban;
lihodesia News Agency, Salisbury; Benoni News
Agency, Benoni; Handel House, Kimberley; and
others.
Canada. — G. S. Forsyth and Co., Hastings
Street, Vancouver, B.C.
U.S.A. — Chicago: J. Roland Kay Co., 161 East
Erie Street, N. Michigan Boulevarde; Post Office
News Co., S 3 1 Vest Monroe Street, Chicago. New
York: Brentano’s, sth Avenue and 27th Street, New
York City; Schultz News Agency, S.E. Corner 6th
Avenue and Iftnd Street, New York City; Hotaling’s
News Agency, 203 I Vest ) Ist Street, New York City.
Washington: Liberty News Co., Seattle, Washington;
Wheatley News Co., 701/ Market Street, San Francisco;
Wallace, The New Orleans News Man, 105 Royal
Street. New Orleans, La. : The Wide World News Stand,
51,11 South Main Street, Los Angeles, Cal.
Kgypt. — Jacques. Horn and Co., the Colonial
Hook and News Stores. Port Said, Egypt.
Hong Kong. —Brewer and Co., 696 Pedder Street,
Hong Kong.
China. —Brewer and Co., 31 Nanking Road,
Shanghai, China.
Penang, F.M.S. — K. Abdul Rahman, Bookstall,
Eastern and Oriental Hotel.
Ceylon. — T. L. De Silva, 39 Chatham Street,
Colombo.
Papua. —Whitten Bros., Samarai and Port Moresby
Fiji.— A. Barker, Suva: Harry Gardiner, Metropole
Hairdressing Saloon, Suva.
Overseas Advertising Representatives.
London. — L. St. C, Grondona, No. 1 II ardour
Street (near Piccadilly Circus), W. 1.; Gordon and
Gotch, 75-79 Farringdon Street. London, E.C./j.
U.S.A. — J. Roland Kay Co., 161 East Erie Street,
N. Michigan Boulevarde, Chicago.
Postage Rates.
Single copies of The Bulletin (registered as a
newspaper): — Commonwealth, New Zealand and Fiji;
lOoz.. Id. United Kingdom: ,)oz. to 10oz., lid.; each
additional 1,0 z.. Id. All Sea Route: 160 z.. Hd,
British Possessions and U.S.A.: J,oz. or part thereof.
Id. Elsewhere. 20z., Id.
xHeivn.
THURSDAY, JULY 7, 1927.
THE NEW LOAN COUNCIL.
The Loan Council scheme has been develop-
ing by degrees, and may develop more be-
fore it comes before Parliament at Canberra,
and the State Legislatures have a look at
it, and the terms of the referendum are
decided upon. So far as it has gone, the
situation is full of difficulties. When the
of the Public W orks loan of the year
is decided upon, the Commonwealth is to
get one-fifth of the lump, the other four-
filths being divided among the States in
proportion to their last five years’ borrow-
ings. Fhus the States which borrowed most
will get most, and vice, versa. The result
thus attained will, however, cause no very
striking discrepancy, and, if it did, the State
which got least would probably be most
blessed in the long run. At the worst, it
is always possible for any State to ask for
a subsidy and plead that it can’t meet its
obligations without one. But the proposed
division of the plunder raises a problem
of another sort. If the Commonwealth wants
a very large amount, it appears that it must
induce the States to accept four times as
much, and that is more like enlargement
than curtailment of the promissory-note
trouble. On the basis of the Federal Public
Works loan expenditure, the figures would
have worked out for the past five years in
this fashion:—
Loan Expenditure Under Scheme.
Commonwealth’s The States’
Fifth. Four-fifths. Total.
1921- .. £5,246,503 £20,986,012 £26,232,515
1922- .. 5,383,949 21,535,796 26,919,745
1923- . . 6,068,898 24,275,592 30,344,490
1924- .. 6,341,758 25,367,032 31,708,790
1925- . . 7,678,858 30,715,432 38,394,290
£30,719,966 £122,879,864 £153,599,830
The States added £184,435,861 to their
gross liabilities between June, 1921, and
June, 1926. whereas if the Bruce-Page
scheme had been working, and working to
complete satisfaction, during the period they
would have added some 62 millions less. It
would have been a distinct improvement,
but not nearly distinct enough in such a
bad case. It is hardly even an effort to get
back to the very mitigated economy of
last decade.
# H< * *
And the situation isn’t stationary; in
fact, it is as full of motion as a menagerie.
The Federal Public Works loan bill shows a
constant tendency to increase. If the annual
amount during the next five years stands
still at the figure of 1925-26 (to say nothing
of the possibly larger figure for 1926-27),
the Commonwealth will apparently have to
press £153,577,160 of fresh loans on the
States so that its one-fifth of the lump sum
will meet requirements. And if the Com-
monwealth’s borrowing habits grow worse
at the pace of the last year or two, and at
the pace which most bad habits develop,
logic suggests that the Federal Govern-
ment may yet be seen urging the State
Governments to spend, or at least to accept,
more loans than they spent before the
reform, and getting the money for them on
the strength of the Federal credit. As State
liabilities expand, so will the Federal re-
demption-fund liabilities; but an item like
that is only a bud on the financial forest.
❖ ❖ ❖ *
On the other hand, should the Loan
Council be constituted on the basis proposed,
and assuming that it isn’t wrecked by
violent secession or other unlooked-for
events, the Commonwealth could limit State
borrowings simply by limiting its own. It
did very strictly limit its own when George
Turner was financial king; at that time a
Federal Public Works loan was hardly
thought of. But the later type of Federal
politician has forgotten how. He wants to
do things in a lordly way. Though he has
his own sinking-fund commitments to pro-
vide for, he proposes to furnish over
£BOO,OOO per annum for the redemption of
old State promises to pay, and to contribute
to a redemption fund against new ones.
How much this latter item will amount to
depends on the size of the new ones. He
has taken on a liability also as wholesale
guarantor for the States, which may mean
nothing or a good deal. He is making
allowances to two States, and has expressed
willingness to consider the troubles of a
third. His annual revenue increased roughly
5j- millions per annum in the four years to
June, 1926; in other words, customs receipts,
the result of an importing boom which is too
bloated to last, grew by 104 millions, so
other sources in the aggregate showed
5j- millions decline. The present Ministry is
thus likely to want more loans instead of
less ; and that appears to point the way to
complications. Any plan for large financial
improvement should embody ways and
devices for finding more funds, and plenty
of them when required, by strict economy
or even, if very strict economy is insuffi-
cient, by the re-imposition of taxes. The
plan that omits these trifles is a mistake
which is likely to bring disaster.
ALL FOR THE WORKER.
While the family-endowment legislation
was being shoved through the N.S.W. Par-
liament, the Government thoughtfully
arranged that beneficiaries should have addi-
tional ways and means of spending the
money. It introduced a Gaming and
Betting Amendment Bill which conferred
four more racing days p.a. on the Heddon
Greta club, a proprietary body, distributed
25 new trotting dates p.a. among clubs in
Newcastle, Cessnock and Maitland, and
authorised the owners of Menangle Park,
which had been out of action for two or
three years owing to a railway deviation
having brought it within 40 miles of Sydney,
to race on 16 days p.a. There was also
provision for 20 more trotting days in
Sydney, making the number of new meet-
ings in the metropolitan and Newcastle
districts 65 p.a. It seems to have been
taken for granted in Parliament that the
20 extra days would be divided between the
existing Sydney trotting clubs; and although
some members jibbed at a clause empower-
ing the Government to license another
metropolitan racecourse, Lazzarini, the then
Chief Secretary, assured the House that
there was nothing to be alarmed about and
that he thought there were enough race-
courses already.' Presently, however, the
director of a speedway constructed on
ground leased from the Government at
Maroubra joyfully announced that his
concern had been licensed by the said
Lazzarini to hold 20 night trotting meetings
p.a., and that a track would be laid down
forthwith. All in the interests of the
workers rightly struggling to be free!
* * * *
The measure also sought to legalise
betting on the pursuit of mechanical hares
on licensed coursing grounds, a pastime
which was about to be introduced. This
clause was knocked out by the Leg. Council,
in spite of Lazzarini’s assurance that “it
provides no greater opportunities for betting
than now exist,” and the Government
accepted the amendment —as it seemed. But
bookmakers are betting on the new variety
of greyhound racing nevertheless. The
syndicate responsible for its introduction
tried it without bookmakers and struck a
succession of chilling frosts. In desperation
it rushed to Lysaght, the new Attorney-
General, with legal opinion to the effect that
it was entitled to the presence of McShort-
odds by virtue of the Gaming and Betting
Act, 1906; and Lysaght conceded the claim.
The very next meeting witnessed a magical
change in the fortunes of the tin-hare syndi-
cate. Instead of being abandoned to a
few hundred shivering and dispirited on-
lookers, the ground at Epping was thronged
with excited “sports” of both sexes, all bent
on improving the breed of mechanical hares.
Last Saturday night—they are Saturday-
night affairs—there were 25,000 spectators,
it is estimated, and over a hundred book-
makers. There is no totalisator, nor is the
syndicate likely to apply for one. The
Government lias so “reformed” the basis
on which tote prizes are distributed that a
winner priced at 5 or 6 to 1 against in the
ring is apt to be 3 or 4 to 1 on when the
machine pays out ; in one case, tote backers
of a winner had their money returned.
“Such regulations,” says the Sydney Worker
bitterly, “must render tote betting un-
popular, and the bookmakers will handle
most, if not all, of the money speculated
on a racecourse. Perhaps the late Chief
Secretary will enlighten a puzzled racing
world as to whether that is a desirable
achievement to be credited to a democratic
Government. An inquiry into this and a
couple of other peculiarities in racing control
might prove illuminative.” Maybe the
Bavin-Buttenshaw Government will under-
take it.
Before long, thanks to the Lang Govern-
ment’s forethought, Sydney Labor sup-
porters will probably be able to bet every
day in the week, Sunday perhaps excepted.
There will be “trots” on Monday, Menangle
Park on Tuesday, “the ponies” (Ascot,
Kensington, Rosebery or Victoria Park) on
Wednesday, Gosford or Wyong on Thursday,
more “trots” on Friday, Randwick, Rosehill,
Moorefield, Canterbury Park or Warwick
Farm on Saturday and the tin hare on
Saturday night. Apparently, the Maroubra
people will have to take Friday, for it won’t
pay them to clash with the tin-hare crowd
or any of the others, although Rosebery
sometimes clashes on Saturday with Rose-
hill and “Kenso” with Canterbury Park.
When the worker is in a position to lose his
wages every day in the week, and at least
two nights, the emancipation of the masses
will be almost complete. Incidentally, the
tin-hare craze has had results unforeseen by
Labor politicians and unpalatable to certain
of their friends. Being much cheaper, and
just as thrilling, if not more so, it has
enticed thousands of “sports” away from the
Saturday-night fights at the Stadium, which
is notoriously run by Friends of the Workers.
Judging by the squeals of the pony-racing
press, it is also affecting attendances at the
pony courses, where other Friends of the
Workers have grown, rich. Still, you can’t
please everybody, even when you aim at
promoting the good of the greatest number
—or, at least, getting the greatest number
of votes.
THE LORDS BUY A NEW BROOM.
Who are these Lords who, according to
recent cablegrams, propose to put their
House in order?
Their House is unlike any other chamber
in the world. Its joints are creaky with
age, its make-up wholly out of harmony
with the democratic institutions of the 20th
century; yet it remains a potent and, in
some respects, a genuinely effective part
of the English Parliamentary machine. It
has been buffeted again and again, but has
survived it all. Oliver Cromwell bundled it
out of his Protectorate neck and crop; but it
came back cheerfully and unabashed with
the Restoration. It has been a plucky old
House, tenacious of its privileges and im-
mensely proud of its antiquity.
Yet its very existence as a second cham-
ber was by accident and not of design.
Early English Parliaments did not make
laws; they were mere assemblages of clergy,
barons and representatives to talk matters
of State over with the king, who listened
to their advice but rarely followed it. The
knights of the shire and the burgesses,
having little in common with the great
barons, took to deliberating apart,
gradually a cleavage came into Lords and
Commons. The clergy, however, probably
knowing where the best pickings were to
be had, stuck fast to the big men, and
so in course of time the House of Lords
became a chamber of two estates with equal
rights: lords spiritual and lords temporal.
And so it remains to-day, the lawn-sleeved
bishops sitting to the right of the woolsack
and the lay lords to the left.
Until the 15th century the peers were
very safe, for they and they alone were
entitled to receive the king’s writ summon-
ing them to Parliament. It was in that
century they received their worst blow; and
it came from the Crown, their ancient lord,
when he appointed new peers by his rova!
patent. That is the skeleton in the cup-
board of the lords. Whenever a complaisant
monarch sits on the throne it is not diffi-
cult to squeeze a few new peers out of
him and thus lessen the arrogance of the
old bunch. When the younger Pitt was
Prime Minister he put George 111. in such
labor that he gave birth to no fewer than
388 peers. Pitt's idea was to curb the
tendency towards exclusiveness by pitch-
forking in men of such red corpuscles as
manufacturers and merchants. Since then
the levelling down has gone on extensively,
the potency of beer being notably present.
The creation of new peers gives the
Commons a whip hand. Peel held this
threat oyer them to force through
the Reform Act of 1832, and even
in our own century (1911) the mere sug-
gestion of swamping their House made the
lords consent in haste to the Parliament
Act which clipped their wings closer.
Ever since the knights of the shire and
the burgesses cut away from the barons
and played by themselves they have
strengthened their own position and weak-
ened that of the lords, till the latter have
become an almost subordinate chamber. In
taxation the barons have hardly any say.
When a money bill is sent up they may
shake their heads, but not a line of it
dare they amend. Theoretically, they could
throw it out—if they dared. In 1917 and
1918, when the god of war held the for-
tunes of England on a blood-stained lap,
they talked fearfully of reform. A con-
ference of members drawn from the two
Houses was held under the chairmanship
of the late Lord Bryce, but so divergent
and opposed were the views that no unani-
mous-report could be brought up.
One good object it served was to bring
before the public the essentially useful pur-
poses of a second chamber. It was agreed
generally that the chief proper functions
of a chamber such as the House of
Lords were the examination and re-
vision of the bills brought up from the
Commons; the saving of'the time of the
popular chamber by the initiation and dis-
cussion of non-controversial measures and
by putting them in good shape, thus render-
ing their passage in the Commons easier;
the holding up of a bill for a sufficient time
to enable the opinion of the electors to be
expressed on it where some very radical
change was contemplated; and finally the
full discussion of important questions of
foreign policy at times when the Commons
had their hands full of domestic legislation.
Again the ferment of reform is working
in their lordships’ thoughts. The recent
debate was initiated by Lord Fitzalan, an
inconspicuous unit among the 720 peers who
constitute the House, of whom only about
a third attend its sittings, and most of them
only when some question vital to them-
selves arises. The Lord Chancellor, who
expressed the opinion of the Ministry, con-
templated the possibility of the Lords being
swept out of existence and suggested as
a safeguard against this disaster that no
bill altering the constitution and powers
of the ancient House should be passed
without its own consent. But instead of
strangulation the Ministry suggested a re-
formed House of not more than 350 mem-
bers and a system of election. Peers of
the Royal blood, lords spiritual, hereditary
peers and law lords (having only a life
tenure) should elect members of their own
order and nominees of the Crown fill in
the balance of the membership roll. Thus
as a nominee of the king, Bill Jones, or
Septimus Smith, of the Labor party, could
sit opposite the bishops and vote with Ihe
bold, bad barons who have spindled down
their ancestry from the days when William
was conqueror.
T.C.
PLAIN ENGLISH.
Lang’s Phantom Riches.
The N.S.W. Government closed its financial
year at the end of June with some records.
It had the biggest revenue in the State’s
history, and the biggest expenditure. It
had the biggest surplus, save one. And it
did the biggest foreign borrowing that any
Australian State ever accomplished inside
a single year. The interest bill was natu-
rally a record too. On the other hand the
amount of Public Works expenditure paid
out of revenue and the contributions to
sinking fund were hardly worth mention-
ing; but the number of odd jobs and job-
lets charged against loans was astonishing.
The income-tax was collected with such
a stern resolve to leave no arrears for the
next Government to collect that the re-
ceipts under this head exceeded those of
1925-26 by £2,385,197. The surplus of
£1,458.932 was thus more than explained.
The net revenue from business under-
takings of all sorts was £6,217,606. and as
the interest on loans was £9,891,196 it is
to be inferred that the annual burden of
the dead horse is now over £3,600.000. It
is a heavy price to pay for past loafing
and shirking. Assistant-Treasurer McKeli.
lately assured British financiers that the
unprofitable burden was only a million per
annum, but it is probable that British fin-
anciers didn’t take him seriously.
The new external loans which the Min-
istry floated during the year were in excess
of £14,000,000. It is a quaint and little-


understood circumstance that if Lang's sur-
plus had been 14 millions, or 140 millions,
or even 1400 millions instead of what it
was, the fact would have made no difference
in the necessity for borrowing 14 millions
abroad. The only thing which will meet
liabilities abroad is a sufficient surplus of
exports over imports, and that can be at-
tained only by a great deal more production
than Australia at present shows a desire to
attempt, or much more frugal living than
enters into its scheme of life.
*
“Good Old Piddo” Outpids Pid.
Industrial Commissioner Piddington, of
N.S.W., probably looked for more gratitude
than he received on account of his new
basic-wage verdict. As the employers’ and
employees’ representatives stood aloof from
the Commissioner and still more widely
aloof from each other, it was a one-man
decision, “good old Piddo” acting on his own.
He raised the artisan’s bottom rate from
£4 4s. per week for a man, and wife (if
any), and children (if any), to £4 ss. for
a man and wife (if any), the children being
separately provided for by the endowment
of ss. per week up to the age of 14. Then
the child of the moderate wage-earner will
cease to be an asset even in a small way, so
there will be a tendency to hustle him or
her into the labor market while still a good
deal too young. The employees’ represen-
tative on the Industrial bench wanted an
increase of 13s. per week instead of Is., and
what the employers’ representative wanted
he didn’t say, but he looked a lot.
The reason assigned for the increase is
that the cost of living has gone up again,
and that the industrial dog is still in hot
pursuit of his own economic tail. The Rail-
way Department has already issued an esti-
mate that under the new order of things its
expenses will increase by £500,000 per
annum, and presumably those of other
undertakings will expand in the same ratio.
So the railways will either put up charges
or put up their demands for aid from the
general taxpayer, and while the general em-
ployer is trying to fall back on his cus-
tomers for his share of the fresh burdens he
will find the various big Government enter-
prises simultaneously falling back on him.
In delivering judgment, the zealous Com-
missioner stated that the scientific new
method would work quite differently from
the crude old one. “Instead of the vicious
circle of wages following prices and prices
following wages, we shall have the bene-
ficial circle of consumption following pro-
duction and production following consump-
tion.” The railway position already casts
a shadow on this optimistic prognostica-
tion, and even if the Piddington prophecy
was partly right, it might prove a case of
consumption following importation and im-
portation following consumption.
Child endowment is a fine and logical
idea, and in the interests of better educa-
tion for the children of the poor and com-
paratively poor it should be carried some-
what beyond the 14-years mark. But it
must needs totter under difficulties when it
is accompanied by (1) increased wages;
(2) a constant tendency towards the short-
ening of hours; (3) a persistent day-labor
policy to restrict output, and systematic
persecution of any person who is suspected
of showing signs of misguided enthusiasm;
(4) rotary and other devices to ensure that
the conscientious worker will get no more
even of the day labor than the loafer; (5)
a persistent though spasmodic enlargement
of imports to block the demand for local
products (imports first passed the hundred-
million-pounds mark in 1918-19 and defi-
nitely passed it in 1920-21, since when there
have been astounding records of 163 and
157 millions); and (6) a corresponding ten-
dency towards increased borrowing and
astonishing interest bills—at least, an in-
crease from £15,432,189 to £31,372,304 in
eight years, for the States alone, looks
astonishing enough. The spectacle of
“Piddo” pursuing his unruffled way as if
this was an ordinary community and these
disturbing conditions were non-existent is
impressive.
The Super-Parliament Notion.
The paradoxes that delight the political soul
of the English had a grand parade the
other evening when the House of Commons
pondered awhile upon the spectacle of an
Empire which is never tired of reminding
itself that it consists of separate and self-
governing nations. Speakers referred to the
affair as autonomous in parts but united
as a whole; played with the idea of some
central council, Parliament or secretariat
that should reconcile the various inde-
pendences, and admitted an inward qualm
or two concerning the result of trying to
put any more harness on the team.
The fact is that neither Mother nor
Daughters like the idea of a suzerainty.
Nobody could possibly understand and
sympathise with them so much as they do
themselves, and they would feel safer carry-
ing on without any more definite articles
of association than at present exist. But,
as Dominions Secretary Amery inferred,
the habit of holding periodical conferences
has involved the group in a series of mutual
obligations reaching into many spheres,
and the need for some central organisation
that represents all and has some measure
of control over all in respect to those
matters which it has been agreed are of
common interest becomes every year more
pressing. The Dominions Office, which is
one of Mother’s departments, cannot do
much more than act as a bureau of infor-
mation. The time has gone past when any
such department can impose a policy on
any unit of Empire, and a “colonial” Gov-
ernor who is up against a wild and un-
reasonable Premier and wants power added
to his elbow does not get much help.
It doesn’t seem to have occurred to any
of the Empire statesmen yet that the same
problem, on a much bigger scale and brist-
ling with many more difficulties, has already
been solved in a sort of a fashion. -The
League of Nations is a body that might
very well be made the pattern for an
Imperial central organisation. It has de-
fined powers, but it uses them gingerly and
only after the fullest consultation. It pro-
vides machinery for research and investi-
gation into almost any phase of national
or world welfare, and its secretariat, under
joint control, is an efficient and impartial
clearing-house for the exchange of news and
views. There isn’t any difference in poli-
tical significance between a League of
Nations and a “Commonwealth of Nations,”
and the latter term, accredited to George
Rex, has been accepted as a much better
description of the British Union than
“Empire” by most peoyfie who have
thought about the subject. A Secretariat
that acts permanently, a Council that sits
frequently and an Assembly that sits at
stated intervals ought to fill all the needs
perceived by Amery and the other theorists
about Imperial unity.
♦
Why Should Sheep Die in Millions?
“C.J.H.”: Seven million sheep have recently
died in Queensland and ten millions are
on the verge of starvation in N. S. Wales.
Lambs are dying over half the State. Can’t
the S.P.C.A. force some law through to
compel owners to make provision for the
inevitable droughts? Ten million dead
sheep! Twenty million hideous empty red
eyesockets. And what a hell of lingering
agony!
The Department of Agriculture tells us
that green oats make fine silage suitable
for all kinds of stock, including ewes and
lambs, and I have seen tons and tons of
silage preserved for years in simple earthen
excavations. The rules for success are few,
chiefly to the effect that the crop must
be pitted when soft and green, that the
pit must be dry and that at least six feet
of earth must intervene between the silage
and the air when the pit has been closed.
Excepting in the stony land —and there
is very little of that out back—there is not
a sheep-run in N.S.W. where oats could
not be grown at least one year out of every
two by adopting the simple fallowing me-
thods now extensively in vogue in the
n.-w. of Victoria and in Riverina. A hun-
dred acres of oaten silage will provide a
full ration for 1000 sheep for a year; and
3000 sheep will yield a good living in any
part of N. S. Wales. Why not forbid a
man in the Western division to carry over
1000 sheep more than the number for which
he has provided a year’s feed in silage pits
(the only practicable safe storage) and a
man in the Central division to carry over
500 sheep more than he has similarly pro-
vided for? In practice out west it would
not be necessary to open the silage pits
more than once in five years on average,
so by persistent cultivation large reserves
would soon be built up; then N.S.W. could
carry 100,000,000 sheep.
But the cost of all this simple provision?
In most instances it would be recouped
before the pits were opened, because buyers
must pay the owners’ price when reserves
of fodder have been established. In any
case it will be far less than the value of
ten million sheep, and that is what this
State will lose during the next two months,
rain or no rain.
♦
This Southern Rubbish Tip.
Badly as Australia needs immigrants, if
the quality of these is no better than that
of a batch of 500 which reached Sydney
on the French liner Cephee, it will pay
the country better to depend on natural
increase for peopling its empty spaces.
According to the report of the Federal
Health officer who inspected the ship on
her arrival, her human freight consisted of
mixed Asiatic and Southern Europeans, in-
cluding Levantines, these last admittedly
the limit as “Europeans.” The new arrivals
spoke in all the tongues of the Pentecost,
and so many of them were unable to under-
stand the language of the ship’s officials, or
to read the notices posted up, that it was
impossible to maintain discipline, while
conditions on board became as bad as the
national reputation of the immigrants
would lead one to expect. A number of
Indo-Asian deck passengers were also pre-
sent to add to the prevailing unpleasantness.
For Some years past this country has
been acquiring numbers of such citizens,
and no amount of protest seems to be suc-
cessful in stemming the invasion. For the
greater part manual laborers or low-class
hucksters, they represent types with which
Australia is already too well supplied. With
the exception of a percentage of Italians
for the Northern canefields, they are of no
use for the purpose for which our immigra-
tion policy was initiated, the development
of the country as opposed to the over-
crowding of the already swollen cities. With-
out the Italian land-worker’s virtues, they
exaggerate his chief fault—the tendency to
herd together and maintain national com-
munities which stand aloof from assimila-
tion with the local stocks, and from the
building up of a universal national type,
the basic ideal of an immigration policy,
With the deplorable results of unre-
stricted immigration in the United States
before its eyes, the Federal Government
lias astonished its most assiduous detractors
by its supine acceptance of an insanitary
situation. A couple of years ago, some
promise of restricting the flow of this type
of immigration was languidly made. Nothing
seems to have been done in effect, for the
immigration statistics show a steady in-
crease, year by year, in the class of immi-
grant of which the latest arrivals are
typical.
Passport restrictions, the possession by
the newcojner of a fixed sum in cash, the
support of relatives or friends—these 'are
put forward as safeguards against the influx
of undesirables. But there are wide-open gaps
somewhere. Federal authority might well
get busy to see these are stopped. More
rigid restriction and sharper supervision of
immigrants at the port of departure from
Europe are solutions which suggest them-
selves.
4.
Fierce Demand for Coal Mines.
The Sydney Labor alderman’s passionate
desire lor a coal mine, though a knitting
mill might serve the purpose just as well,
had another flicker last week. The party
having split as usual and being torn be-
tween conflicting coal deposits, an alderman
moved on behalf of the caucus that the city
should go the whole animal and buy them
both. A lot of conversation ensued. It
was stated that the price to be paid for a
property at Douglas Park was £65,000, which
seems about the usual thing. Apparently
it isn’t a mine but only a “property.” The
area is 11,000 acres, but the £65,000 isn’t for
the freehold. At least the Council’s solicitor
furnished a report which reads like a rental
of £1375 per annum (£llOO of it going to
vendors who might be described as middle-
men) in addition to the lump sum of
£65,000. The disturbing solicitor added that
“of the 11,000 acres on offer to the Council
by the syndicate there was an area of
3500 acres not covered by lease. He
had been informed, but could not verify
the information, that these lands can be
secured by the Council.” He enumerated
four different ways under which the leases
could be lost by forfeiture after being paid
for.
The manager of the Council’s electri-
city department submitted a report on the
quality of the coal in both the proposed
mines which could hardly be called favor-
able. The Labor alderman who had the
business in hand chipped in with the state-
ment that he would still barrack for the
purchase of both mines “even if it was
shown that the coal from them, under City
Council labor conditions, would cost more
than contract price,” which is the sort of
language expected from a real stalwart.
“The party,” he said, “considers it neces-
sary for protection that it should have
command of at least two coal mines.” For-
merly the demand was for one municipal
mine, then for two, next for “at least two.”
It was a cryptic utterance, for it didn’t
explain how the Council would be better
off with two mines, both occasionally on
strike, than if it was at liberty to browse
round for supplies among the 143 coal
mines in N.S.W., to say nothing of some
outside. The matter then waddled untidily
off the stage, to reappear in a week’s time
when the City solicitor’s disquieting re-
marks about the land titles have been
looked into.
All this frivolity doesn’t mean that the
Council has money to spare, for it lately
raised its rate of interest so that it might
compete against the State (which has put
up its rate to compete against the Common-
wealth) in the loan market. It simply has
a hunger to do business in coal mines, or
egg farms, or something in connection with
which large sums of money are passed
around.
- - O
“Back to the Land.”
Dear Bulletin, —Samuel William Copley,
a banking, insurance and squatting magnate
of London, South Africa and Australia,
especially of Westralia, has revisited this
country, and travelled over it, and pro-
nounced judgment. It is a courageous judg-
ment, very interesting, and in sundry
respects very Freetrade and very stupid.
Samuel advocates the abolition of Man-
hood Suffrage, Payment of Members, Early
Closing and the Eight-hour System, which
last is pretty well abolished already, for
a full 48-hour week has come to be regarded
as an outrage. He holds that there is a
great slump coming after much loan mad-
ness. But he thinks that Westralia, his own
particular State, and the loan-maddest in
the world, may escape because it is the one
State where the “clearing of new areas of
land” for agriculture is in steady progress.
The Commonwealth has 129 acres out of
each 10,000 under forest, which is a smaller
proportion than the United Kingdom or
Japan; and Westralia has only 48 acres of
forest out of each 10,000 acres of area. Yet
it takes great credit to itself because it is
rooting out the scarce hardwoods of its
south-west to make room for cows, which
can be grown almost anywhere.
Still Samuel William told great truths,
mingled with considerable fudge, when he
held forth thus: —
The boom period in Australia is at an end.
The time is coming when the Common-
wealth will have to face another slump, will
have to take stock of its resources, stop
living on borrowed capital and forsake the
cities for the land.... .The boom is ended in
the cities of Australia, and the Govern-
ments, now that the borrowing period is
over, will have to pay some attention to the
country, from which tlieir revenue will have
to come in the future.
I agree absolutely with the proposition
set forth by Samuel Copley, of Copley s
Bank and the Westralian Insurance Co. and
many other institutions, that Australia’s
prosperity has been, for years past, a loan
bubble, and that the bubble has run its
course and now totters on the edge of a
precipice. Otherwise I regard the gentleman
as worthy of notice because he is a finished
Freetrade product of the worst description,
with some Australian trimmings. It would
be a fool’s game to “forsake” the Austra-
lian cities, as Nineveh was forsaken, even
though they are a bloated crowd, and to
scrap their manufactures, even though these
are insufficient, for the sake of going on the
land more than ever, and growing more
raw materials for export at half wages. Ihe
big cities should be checked in growth, not
“forsaken,” and most of the people thus
rendered available should devote themselves
to dotting the country with small but pros-
perous manufacturing towns.
If Australia concentrated on making itseli.
so far as humanly possible, independent ol
foreign manufactures, it would only need
to worry a little about extracting surplus
products from the unwilling earth. There
being less money to pay it would be more
easily paid. Then Australia could blow the
land in moderation, and dash it within fairly
wide limits.—Yours, etc., Henry Horse-
collar.
4
Room for a Centre Party?
Dear Bulletin, —“Fitzwilliam” says (B.
16/6/’27) the N.S.W. Country party has
“committed suicide.” The party recognises
that its first duty is to out both clean and
dirty shades of redness. Hence its tem-
porary arrangement with the Nationalists
to exchange preferences and mutually to
abstain from contesting certain seats. Where
is the suicide in that?
“Fitzwilliam” sees a great chance for
Mutch. But what policy is the “con-
ference” behind Mutch likely to give him ’
Further, he has to live down and explain
away his and his party’s share in the legis-
lative and administrative scandals and
swindles of the Lang Government, which he
didn’t quit till he was forced to.
No, the “Centres” would be well advised
to lose sight temporarily of everything but
the necessity for booting both Pink and
Red sections of the present Labor party into
the oblivion it has earned. If it ever
emerges, cleansed and chastened, its claims
for support can be considered afresh.
—Yours, Ballantine Temple.
4
The Sydney University’s attempt to re-
trieve its financial balance by pinning an
appeal for funds to the celebration of its
75th anniversary draws attention again to the
neglect of their highest educational institu-
tions by wealthy Australians. When the
University is remembered it is usually by
someone who leaves his money earmarked
for a particular cause, which is very much
like offering to a hungry man a nice dish
of strawberries which he can enjoy immedi-
ately he gets somebody else to provide the
cream. The ordinary requirements of an
institution which has seen rapid expansion
and feels the H.C.L. heavily are generally
ignored; so to-morrow (Friday) the State
Governor and leading citizens will start to
rattle the collecting-box on its behalf at
a noon meeting at the Town Hall.
4
The experimental attempt to shift, 19,000
Queensland sheep from Bedourie to Win-
ton by motor-truck (B. 9/6/’27) failed. The
contractors were to be paid 7s. per head
for the 300 miles trip through the drought-
stricken area. Only 1600 sheep had been
shifted when the truck-owners decided that
even 10s. a head would not pay. The
strain on the sheep was so great that they
had to be unloaded half-way and fed with
lucerne hay. Fourteen per cent, died from
the knocking about received. The remain-
der of the flock, 17,400 in number, will
now have to stay on their agistment coun-
try till rain comes to make the country
between them and their original home prac-
ticable. It had been hoped that the motor-
truck would relieve and avoid enormous
suffering among stock. The experiment
suggests that we must turn in some other
direction to look for relief.
4
“Crojack” : Long reckoned a burden on the
State, the Canadian National Railways are
now regarded as a blessing; last year they
showed a surplus of £1,400,000. Much of
the C.N.R.’s mileage (22,681, the longest in
the world) is unreproductive; but in other
directions it serves new pulp and paper
districts which will provide good loading for
many years. Seventeen new pulp and paper
mills were opened near the tracks last year.
Hydro-electric power developments are
bringing many industries to the empty lands,
and new copper and other mines will furnish
heavy haulage demands before long. But
there had to be a brain to bring about
the change from loss to profit; it belonged
to Henry Thornton, who was called in
when the C.N.R. looked like a first-rate job
for the undertaker. The Liberals appointed
Thornton president of the line at a salary
of £lO,OOO a year —it has been raised to
£ls,ooo—and told him to run the thing free
of political influence. In six years he worked
the miracle, in the face of bitter press and
public opposition. Australia could do the
same if it, could get its lines away from
political control, and if a first-class railway
from north to south was part of them.


BEAM WIRELESS
Ike QreatesCftnmph cfScience QOerDistance.
britAKel^
w^ 1 ? 3 J° ALL PARTS OF THE UNITED KINGDOM:—
n a d :f < f n me ~ sages .... sd. per word (minimum 20 words).
De irri I t Telegrams. . 6d. per word (minimum 20 words).
Ordinary Te VS W °l
_ j *cicgrdms 1/8 per wor d ( no minimum).
Addresses* and "iTpriVate canVuled" TelegramS ' AU Registered
D° n * h w/ i Ac , COUn L s will be opened for regular users of the Beam Service.
UDon tplpr.Kr. es n,^ e , sse^ rs or telegrams anywhere in the city
Tn at inv P p " n fT ° sl ' JHegrams marked "via Beam” can also be handed
out Australia ** Telegraph Office in the cities, suburbs, or country through-
Accepting office is open always to the public at
THE BEAM WIRELESS OFFICE,
47 YORK STREET, SYDNEY (top Wynyard St.), one minute G.P.O.
Wi rele s s
“ (-Au "
SendVom-MessoggyrA BEAM’Snd SaveMontPj/
I
Mf
< '
Si
x
JfZ
For
Pumping, Sawing,
Chaff-cutting or Threshing.
“MANGROVITE” Leather or Raw-hide Belting
is ideal for every class of drive. It is unaffected by extremes of climate, drives well in all
weathers, and lasts for years with ordinary care. The leather grain is carefully preserved
throughout the tanning process to ensure permanent flexibility and sure grip. Mangrovite belts
are guaranteed for strength and durability. Send for one the next time you refit, and note the
improvement in transmission.
MANGROVITE BELTING LTD.,
Charles Lutlowici, Managing Director,
49 York Street (Wynyard Square), Sydney.
POLITICAL
POINTS
A late cablegram re the international
squabble about warships :
To-day, for the first time, Mr. Gibson, leader of
the U.S. delegation, expatiated on Washington’s
claim for equality with Britain in every category
of ships.
It reads like a rather peremptory demand
that J. Bull shall reduce his supply of ships
to meet U.S. ideas of economy, whether his
scattered empire needs more defence or not.
Previous disputes have mostly been settled
by Britain yielding the point, and no one
knows liow Uncle might look if met for
once in his life by a flat refusal. His first
expression would naturally be one of blank
amazement, but after that?
The first hurdle that Child Endowment
will have to clear in N. S. Wales was men-
tioned in the Commonwealth Arbitration
Court last week, when the timber industry
applied for an order calling upon the union
to show cause why wages should not be
reduced in proportion to what the applicants
■would have to pay under Lang’s Family
Endowment Taxation Act. Lukin, J., sent
the application along to the Full Arbitration
Court, and said that the question as to
whether State child-endowment allowances
resulting from a tax on industry could be
tacked on to Federal awards would have to be
determined by the High Court. The foul-
workers’ representatives on Piddington’s
Industrial Commission pointed out last
December that 50 p.c. of N.S.W. employees
were working under Federal awards and that
a State child-endowment levy on the em-
ployers might be “declared illegal.” But
Good Old Piddo and Lang took no notice.
An interesting little sum in arithmetic
will offer itself to a few thousand workers
in N. S. Wales presently. The skilled man’s
earnings are too high to allow him to benefit
by the Child Endowment measure if he
works full time; so some thousands of men
with families will find that it will pay them
just as well not to work full time —they
will be as well off if they take a holiday
for a day or two every week and collect in
“endowment” what they lose in wages. That
such a thing should be possible only shows
once more the rottenness of the whole basis
of the thing.
The latest disturbance in North Queensland
arose, in great measure, because unionists on
the spot conceived the idea of depriving
equally good unionists who chanced to arrive
on the spot of the right to vote on union
affairs. The fear was that otherwise changes
might be made in “the executive.” Just as
there are people who would wade in blood
to a J.P.-ship so there are some who would
wreck the commerce of a port or a dozen
ports for a place on “the executive.”
A grotesque situation arose at Cairns
(N.Q.) when the police prohibited work
on the wharf, fearing lest the rival waterside
unions might eat and digest one another
alive. The demand of Brophy’s faction was
that men should be employed in rotation
whether they worked hard or loafed hard.
Dillon’s faction disagreed. Though the work
is done under a State award, a Federal com-
mittee professed to expel the Dillon faction
from the union at a moment’s notice and
turn its members into non-unionists on the
spot. An Arbitration judse backed Dillon,
and then an Arbitration Full Court said the
law was on the side of Brophy. It is diffi-
cult to enthuse over preference to a unionism
which is always getting into tangles like that
and going to law about them.
The Port Adelaide by-election resulted in
T. T. Thompson, the unseated “Protestant
Labor’’ member, increasing his majority over
Frank Condon, Labor M.D.A. in the last
Parliament, from IST to 5000. It is a pity
to see successful sectarianism added to the
worries of the decent S. Aus. Labor Party,
but in asking Liberal electors not to vote,
as the seat belonged to Labor, the A.L.P.
committed a bad tactical blunder. It was
on record also that the local Waterside
Workers’ Federation, of which Thompson
is a past president, had “disciplined” him for
coming out against Condon. This helped
the man considerably, for Port Adelaide
shares a widespread feeling that the Water-
side Workers’ Federation, as run nowadays,
is an insufferable nuisance.
SISYPHUS.
Vic. Labor Government nroposes to sell
by auction the building in Russell-street,
Melbourne, which it bought from the Herald
co. for an immigration bureau, and to use
the money for extending the public offices
at the eastern end of the city. Empire
Theatres, Ltd.,' wants to buy the place to
give it a little more elbow room for the
theatre it is to put up on the site of the
old Herald office, but the Law forbids any
private sale. It looks as if a big profit wiil
he made on the £20,000 paid for the pro-
perty and £4OOO for improvements. Part
of the Exhibition annexe can be used for an
immigration bureau, Bailey, Minister for
Lands, suggests. Indeed, a hollow log may
suffice for all the immigration business that
will be done while Hogan and Co. are in
office.
The net result of Premier Hogan’s crusade
against unemployment in Vic. is that, while
there were 3347 out-of-works registered on
May 23, the figure stood at 5472 a month
later.
It was a Tory Government, egged on by
a Tory M.L.A., that started the first travel-
ling schoolmaster on his backblock perambu-
lations in Queensland. Then came tlic free
weekly eye clinic in western schools which
has done so much to banish ophthalmia and
kindred troubles that plagued bush children.
Later still (Labor-in-officc worthily carrying
on the tradition) a dental outfit was sent at
stated intervals along the railway-lines which
pierce the heart of Queensland from the
coast. Now the Education Department is
running a travelling dental clinic, based on
a motor-van, to places that have never seen
a dentist. Within five weeks 344 children
have been treated out of 178- This is one
of the matters which are free from party
politics, and Queensland is all the better for
it.
By the usual majority (Dethridge and
Beeby, Lukin dissenting) the Federal Arbi-
tration Court refused to exempt the rail-
ways of the Commonwealth and of S. Aus.,
Vic. and Tas. from the 44-hour award in the
metal trades, but the Chief Judge “empha-
sised the need for increased co-operation to
offset the augmented cost due to the shorter
week.” The case is not so much one of
increased cost as of diminished output. If
Australia produced enough in value to pay
for its imports and meet its other outside
liabilities, high wages—even very high
wages—would be a benefit, but it has been
known to fall short by as much as £56,000.000
in a single year. A nation can accumulate
and leave to posterity a ruinous debt made
up of workless Saturdays, if it doesn’t toil
extra hard or long from Monday to Friday.
The N.S.W. metal workers went to the
Commonwealth Arbitration Court for a 44-
hours award and the employers countered
with a demand for piecework. Judge Beeby
granted the 44 hours, to begin immediately,
and added that piecework would come into
force six _ months hence to the extent that
any definite prohibition of it would consti-
tute a breach of the award. He also pro-
vided for the wage question in what looked
a fairly liberal way. What the metal
workers think of the award is unknown at
the moment, but the union-secretary view is
that it is a “disgusting document” and that
piecework is “iniquitous.” The Common-
wealth sends away £45,000.000 a year to
pay for metal goods made mostly by piece-
workers abroad, so it is a great patron of
the “iniquitous” thing.
If piece-work is the bad thing for the
workers that some union spruikers allege,
following on Judge Beeby’s introduction of
it in the metal-trades award, the shearers
and the coal-miners ought to be told about
it. And when the spruikers have converted
the shearers and coal-miners they might try
their hands on the cane-cutters and the
timber-getters. The spruikers may not get
much satisfaction, but they will certainly get
some fine additions to their vocabulary.
During the Warringah (N.S.W.) by-
election a horde of Nationalist spouters said
it was infamous to challenge the York-street
method of pre-selection, as Scott Fell was
doing, it being one of the fairest works of
man. Since then it has been the cause
of fierce rows in the State electorates of
Bondi and Dulwich Hill; Stanley Jaques,
was sacrificed (as far as the machine
can do it) in the one case, and Tom Hoskins,
M.L.A., in the other. In other electorates
many promising young fellows who nominated
in the belief that the Nationalists were
looking for new blood, as they have many
times declared, have found themselves re-
jected in favor of tedious old hacks. If the
Nat. Fed. doesn’t go in for compulsory pre-
ferential voting and drop pre-selection
altogether, it will die of senile decay.
Maoriland cow-farmers are making a strong
drive for the abolition of the Arbitration
Court. The Court doesn't affect them directly
—agricultural and pastoral workers have
never been able to get an award—but the
butter factories, which depend on the export
trade, have to toe the line in the matter of
hours and w-ages. The Coatesites are 80
per cent, farmers, so the voice of the owner
of Strawberry isn't by any means a cry in
the wilderness.
The difficulty about a Commonwealth
child-endowment scheme may not be so great
as it looks. There is an obscure paragraph in
the Constitution Act (No. xxxvii of Clause
51) which says that the Parliament shall
have power to make laws with respect to
“matters referred to the Parliament of the
Commonwealth by the Parliament or Parlia-
ments of any State or States, but so that
the luav shall extend only to States by whose
Parliaments the matter is referred or which
afterwards adopt the law.” Of course the
High Court may put on its most learned and
pettifogging countenance, and decide that the
paragraph means nothing. Or it may hold
that after a State has “referred” a matter
some subsequent Government may become a
nark and take back the reference, and leave
the Commonwealth law like a bridge from
which someone has prigged the supports.
But on the face of things it looks as if para-
graph xxxvii of Clause 51 might cover a lot
of amendment.
Minister Badly, tooting an uninteresting
little trumpet in London, told that N.S.W.
absorbs 45 per cent, of the net immigra-
tion that comes to the Commonwealth. It
certainly once got up to 441 per cent, but
the average for the last six years has been
25 per cent. The worst year was 1921,
when Labor was in power, and the State's
imports reached the record high figure of 724
millions, and loans (partly because money
was wanted to pay for the imports) reached
the then-record figure of 14f millions, and
the unemployed, according to the unions
which sent in reports, reached the dizzy
pinnacle of 137 per 1000, and out of a net
immigration of 15,654 for the Common-
wealth N.S.W. secured only 1564. A com-
munity can’t import its goods and earn wages •
by making them at the same time.
At one time the trouble was because the
unionist was asked to work with the non-
unionist, but preference to unionists helped
to wipe out that bone of contention. Now
rows multiply and business is hung up at
great loss because one unionist won’t work
with another, nor will he let the other work
without him if he can possibly help it. A
fierce and sudden upheaval at Kurri Kurri
(N.S.W.) was lately based on the fact that
the Miners’ Federation desires to absorb
the Colliery Mechanics’ Association. Be-
cause four men would not change from the
Tweedledee to the Tweedledum concern, the
Tweedledum man in charge of a trainload
of miners refused to start, and in conse-
quence a big mine didn’t start either.
Some years ago the imported Tom Walsh
published liis programme for turning the
Australian seafaring man into a nark, who
would be nasty for nastiness’s sake. Every
time a ship was ready to sail the mariners
were to meet and “formulate their demands,”
if they could think of some, and the vessel
was to stay till these were granted. He
mentioned some small annoyances which
might be practised at sea with disadvantage.
A ship was recently held up for 24 hours in
the port of Newcastle over a sudden and per-
emptory demand that the jam should be
served in lib. instead of 51b. tins. If in the
circumstances the owners think that the
smaller tins are wanted because they are
easier to pinch and sneak ashore, who is to
blame except the men’s stupid misleaders?
Edward Grayndler, who represented the
A.W.U. on the industrial delegation which
Bruce-Page sent abroad, spent much of his '
time in asserting the unqualified success of the
Australian arbitration policy. No party, he
declared, could touch this ark of the coven-
ant and live. Still some people have doubts.
Comparative figures for Britain and Aus-
tralia are available up to the end of 1925.
In that year Australia, with one-seventh of
Britain’s population, had close on five-sixths
the number of industrial disputes, more than
one-fourth the number of people involved,
and in proportion a larger number of work-
ing days lost. When a country has more
rows than before it acquired arbitration, and
more rows than another country which hasn’t
arbitration, suspicion arises that the alleged
blessing chiefly exists now for the benefit of
chaps like Grayndler.
A CORRECTION.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“ ‘The Labor party will win—no doubt of that,’
said Mr. Lang. Asked which section he meant, the
Premier replied that Lang and Labor were synony-
mous.”
Lang and Labor—here’s a slogan,
Rhythmic as allit’rative!
Here’s a phrase to catch both rogue an’
Honest man with, as I live.
Lang and Labor —crisp and sparkling,
How the words triumphant swell
With a confidence no darkling
Storms dispel.
Lang and Labor —that’s the ticket.
What a cry to fire the blood!
Seale, you’re on a shirt-front wicket,
Mutch, it seems your name is mud!
Lang and Labor—truly, shares in
That concern look good to us
When he blandly tells us they're syn-
onymous !
Lang and Labor- —lift your voices,
Sound the timbrel, biff the drum!
Shout it as you frame your choices
For the polling-day to come.
Let it roll along like thunder
Till the very heavens blink;
Shout, lest ye may pause to wonder,
Lest ye think—
Think of chaos and disjointment,
Lawless tax and lame excuse,
Stillborn bill, and snide appointment,
Sorry offspring to produce;
Think, and feel of doubt a pang, and
Then to certain knowledge gain
That the synonyms are Lang and
Labor —in vain !
VICTORIA.
HASEN.


The best cigarettes
for years
at
20/^6
Stqte (xpi^ess
ARDATH TOBACCO CO: LTD: LONDON
SOCIETY
"and it's
printed with
WIMBLE'S INKS"
“Runa”: At an up-country garage next-
door to the village pub an ancient Ford
drew up the other day, and the driver ordered
a gallon of petrol while he negotiated a
glass of beer. He was meditatively absorb-
ing it while watching the petrol being run
when a Rolls-Royce arrived and demanded
six gallons. The owner then produced a
gold cigarette-holder and proceeded to rill
in time: unfortunately he flicked his lighted
match in the direction of the Ford. In
the considerable explosion that followed
things became a bit mixed, and after calm
had been restored a voice was heard asking
plaintively, “Anybody seen a gold cigarette-
holder about?” There was no reply for a
second; then a voice came from somewhere
under the remains of the Ford: “I ain t,
but I’ve lost a ’and ’oldin’ a glass o’ beer.’
* * * *
“Bad Australian”: I knew “Jack” Jorgen-
sen, the man-woman (B. 23/6/’27), over
”»() years ago, when she was belting out a
hard-earned crust on the Broken River, Vic.
At that time she was a member of the old
E Company, Mounted Rifles, where she was
regarded as a decent bloke and as good a
man as the next. Although she was rather
partial to flash neckerchiefs and leary bell-
bottomed pants, she was a good all-round
“bushman” and a bit above the average at
slashing out red-gum fencing-posts and
stringy-bark rails. She was very plain-
featured, with a dark, sallow complexion,
and some old injury had quite spoiled the
symmetry of her nose. Shortly after her
arrival in the district she was busy billeting
up a log for posts when one of the local
smart Alecks came up and remarked : “Hello,
John! Altogedder too hard work splittem
post, eh?” “Jack” dropped her maul and
by the time she was done with him he was
the sorest and most astonished Aleck in
the north-east. .
* * * *
“Troy”: Something of a shock was ex-
perienced in Maoriland the other day when
a Boer War veteran ambled into print with
the statement that the name “Anzac had
been in use 15 years before Gallipoli. When
Major Anderson took charge of the Aus-
tralian and M.L. forces near Ottoshoop,
there was a search for an abbreviation of
the official “Australian and - New Zealand
Army Contingents,” and, as in the famous
case of Gallipoli, “Anzac” presented itself
HIS EXPIRING KICK.
MOTHER (helping daughter to dress for wedding) : “It seems to me, my dear, that
Harry is most exacting."
DAUGHTER: “Never mind, mother —we must respect his last wishes.”
as the handiest solution. The iirst kit-bag
was so branded 20 miles from Mafeking,
and the writer claims to have done the
branding. As Boer War veterans are fairly
plentiful there should be no difficulty in
getting the statement verified.
* * * *
“Hinemoa”: Re railway-travelling on the
never (B. 2/6/’27). A friend of mine, with
three mates, journeyed from Lon-
don to Monte Carlo when on fur-
lough for the equivalent of one
shilling and tenpence. They had
railway passes from London to
Dover; here they met a battalion
boarding for France and, forming
fours, tagged on to it. In France
they got on the train and when the
ticket-collector showed up discov-
ered they were on the wrong one
and hopped off, hopping on again
when the coast was clear. In Paris
they reported at headquarters when
they knew that the boss would be
out, and while one chap talked to
a friend in the office, another one
smothered their passports with
office stamps. During the last lap,
between Paris and Monte Carlo,
they were held up: but one of the
quartette, a fluent linguist, burst
into voluble explanations in Maori
to the consternation of the French
officials, who Anally gave it up and
let the travellers proceed. The re-
turn trip cost them very little more.
“Stellsby’’: In vindication of the military
blunder at Gallipoli “Croesus (B. 2d/(J/-7)
asserts that Kitchener always regarded the
Dardanelles business as a mere “sideshow.
That wise soldier is not alive to refute the
charge, but he knew like everyone else that
Russia had to be succored at all costs, and,
the Baltic being closed, the Black Sea was
the only means of access. How far he was
from regarding the propping up of Russia
as a sideshow is indicated by the fact that
he later lost his life in the Hampshire when
lie embarked on what was indisputably a
mission to reorganise the Russian army.
I repeat, as the result of my first-hand
observation, the view I formed on the spot,
viz., that had the Army landed before the
Peninsula was fortified, as it was invited
to do, the Navy would have done the rest
in forcing the Narrows. I cannot force
myself to take much interest in the excuses
of Grey or any other discredited politician
in defence of army maladministration.
* * * *
“4 x 2”: It is difficult to avoid the belief
that, the Dardanelles would have been forced
without any request for military co-
operation had the Navy only known a little
more than it did about the plight of the de-
fenders. Morgantkau, U.S. ambassador to
Turkey, tells us in his book, “Secrets of the
Bosphorus,” that the Turkish forts had only
27 rounds of ammunition left "when the
British fleet sailed away that March evening
in 1915. Special trains with steam up were
in waiting in Constantinople to remove the
Sultan and the German staff the next morn-
ing. Morning came, and the Turks found
that the British Navy had demonstrated and
departed. Admiral “Jacky” Fisher, then
First Sea Ford, was of opinion that the
Navy could force the Dardanelles with a
loss of 12 ships. The German admiral at
Constantinople told Morganthau that the
Straits could, and in his opinion would, be
forced by the British with a loss of 10
ships.
“Centurion”: The argument as to who
got the better of the Battle of Jutland, not
to mention the subsidiary controversy about
the respective merits of .Tellicoe and Beatty,
is quite likely to go on for centuries, seeing
that it has never yet been satisfactorily
settled what nation or commander had most
to do with winning Waterloo, 301 years
earlier. The British claim the credit for
the victory because they bloodily checked
the French advance at Quatre Bras on the
Friday, fell back to position at Waterloo
on Saturday, and all day Sunday withstood
the French artillery punishment and cav-
alry charges, ending up with an infantr;-
counter-attack which . shattered the final
French infantry assault. The Prussians, who
evading Grouchy, attacked the French flank
late in the afternoon, undoubtedly set up
a very important diversion of Napoleon’s
dispositions, and have ever since declared
themselves the real winners on that account.
The small Belgian army early in the battle
executed a masterly strategic retreat on
Brussels, but patriotic Belgians have always
maintained that the knowledge they were
waiting for him there finally induced Nap.
to throw in the towel. To prove it, they
put up a monument on the field in honor
of their victory which was the proudest
thing in the landscape, and may be still, if
the Hun didn’t abolish it in 1914. I am
omitting any reference to Bill Adams.
* * * *
“X.N.0.”: “Light Horse” (B. 23/6/’27)
complains that the A.I.F. is to be repre-
sented by an infantryman, to the exclusion
of other arms of the service, on the Martin-
place War Memorial. Rut the army has
always been so represented in statuary,
doubtless for the reason that there were
infantrymen before cavalry and artillery.
The stoker branch of the R.A.N. might
object with as much reason to that service
being always represented by a seaman, but
there were seamen before there were stokers.
YO-HO-HO!
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“The crew of the inter-State steamer Echunga held
up the vessel for 24 hours at Newcastle (N.S.W.)
until they were supplied with pickles in bottle,
instead of in bulk, and jam in lib. tins instead of
51b. ones.”
Seventeen men and their straight request—
Yo-ho-ho and a tin of jam!
Pulp right juicy from fruit of the best.
Yo-ho-ho and a tin of jam!
None of the tack that made Diggers glum,
Squashy apple and tasteless plum,
Growing a burden wearisome.
Strawberry, raspberry, sweet and new,
Something to suit each one of the crew,
And a change after every meal or two.
Yo-ho-ho and a tin of jam!
See, ’tis the bo’s’n throws out his chest.
Yo-ho-ho and a bottle of mixed!
Solid behind him observe the rest.
Yo-ho-ho and a bottle of mixed !
Seventeen men on a coasting hulk,
Haven’t they reason to growl and sulk
Fed on the pickles one buys in bulk?
Pungent onion and gherkin sour
Freshly opened they must devour,
Appetite-sharpening cauliflower.
Yo-ho-ho and a bottle of mixed!
Seventeen sailors sore oppressed.
Yo-ho-ho and a tin of jam!
How can they munch their scran with zest:
Yo-ho-ho and a tin of jam!
Does anyone wonder they find it rough
To work their jaws and to champ and puff
Through five full pounds of the same darned
stuff , .
With never a change, till they’ve lowered the
lot,
From the quince or peach that has tiresome
got
IN THE REIGN OF KING JAZZ.
“And here comes that insufferable fellow Fletcher again, with Billy Button and his
wife.”
“H’m, yes —the nocturnal triangle.”
To lemon-and-melon or apricot?
Yo-ho-ho and a tin of jam!
Seventeen men at their lot protest
(Yo-ho-ho and a bottle of mixed!),
Swear they will see the Old Man blest
(Yo-ho-ho and a bottle of mixed!)
If they raise the anchor or cross the bar
Before they’ve onions to prong from the jar
Straight out of their native vinegar.
Seventeen men, determined, tense,
Shoulder-to-shoulder in grim defence
Of their hard-won rights—and their condi-
ments.
Yo-ho-ho and a bottle of mixed!
N.S.W.
T. THE R.


"X D.”; Melbourne’s most unlucky thief
uined up the other day. He was breaking
into a shop and had just excavated a hole
i the wall large enough to admit his body
when the last brick fell on tli e burglar-
alarm.
* * * *
X.S.”: Melbourne rag shops are in a
great state of perturbation on account of the
operations of a firm of private detectives
which specialises in traps for counter-
jumpers. The method is for the spy to enter
the shop and buy a hat or something, plank
down the money and then bolt before the
assistant can make out liis docket. At the
end of the day he slips round to the office
to inquire whether a docket for that par-
ticular purchase lias been passed in. Two
leading firms which have availed themselves
of this friendly service have got the sur-
prise of their lives. One discovered an old
and tried employee defrauding it of several
pounds on the first day and the other wonders
whether it hasn’t been losing hundreds. One
of the biggest firms, however, showed the
new enterprise the door. It doesn’t care
for American decoy-duck methods or else it
lias more faith in its staff or its methods
of accountancy than other establishments.
“Biochem” : Modern motor improve-
ments, notably low-pressure balloon
tyres, may serve other purposes besides
the comfort of motorists. The other
day I saw a man knocked down and
run over by a swiftly-moving and well-
laden car. The wheels passed right
over his pelvis, but beyond some con-
tusions from the first impact he was
uninjured. Instead of his body get-
ting the full weight and lifting the
wheels as they passed over him, the
car hardly seemed to be raised; the
“give” of the lightly-inflated tyres and
the excellence of the springs proved his
salvation. But I suspect his best luck
lay in the fact that the driver was a
woman. A man on feeling the first
bump would have been much more apt
to jamb on the brakes, in which case
the victim, dragged and ground be-
tween the locked wheels and the road,
could hardly have escaped severe or
fatal injuries.
* * *
“Bosso”: Is this coincidence, or
what would you call it? When a lad
I paid a brief visit to Sydney in a
wool clipper. A friend advised me to
take advantage of an auctioneering
firm’s offer to provide a free train ride
and lunch to intending land buyers,
and as it appeared to be my only
chance of seeing anything of the in-
terior, I readily fell in with the sug-
gestion. We travelled some 150 miles
to a large inland town, whence we were
conveyed by buggy and ’bus to pad-
docks three miles away, which the auc-
tioneer assured us would in a few
years be a popular suburb. He des-
canted on his theme with a deal of
eloquence, but as I never expected to
see Australia again I wasn’t much in-
terested. That was nearly 50 years
ago and cattle still roam over the
“desirable building sites,” but I have
since built a home and raised a family
on the very spot where I stood, a city-
bred youth, listening to the auctioneer,
and thinking what an impossible place
it was for a man to live in.
* * *
“Stellsby”: Built in Scotland in
1549, the wooden tug Hercules, after
30 years’ service in Port Phillip in its
original capacity and a rather longer
period of utility as a watertank at
V\ illiamstown (Vic.), has begun life
afresh as a lighter. An early feat of
the old girl is worth relating. Before
coming to Australia she did towage
work at South Shields, and her last
job there was to tow to sea a Mel-
bourne-bound windbag. Immediately
afterwards the Hercules herself was
converted into a full-rigged schooner and
despatched to Australia. She made an
exceptionally fast voyage (under sail)
to Melbourne, was reconditioned as a
tug, and her first job was to tow from
Port Phillip Heads the sailer which
site had towed to sea at South Shields.
To convince himself that he wasn't
dreaming the windjammer’s old man
got dead drunk on the passage up the
Bay.
* * *
“Pulex” : The public servant at Can-
berra Inis about as much chance of
keeping his private affairs secret as
a goldfish in a bowl. The Public
Service List and the Gazette already
make available full details of his sal-
ary, status, seniority, age and service.
Now, under the caption “Canberra
Officers Invest Early Interest in
Local Companies,” a recent press
notice broadcasts further information
culled from the shareholders’ lists of
the companies that are commencing
enterprises in the Federal Capital. If
publicity can short-circuit scandal,
tlieie won t be much left to talk about over
the teacups at Eastlake and Blandfordia.
* * * *
“M.G.S.” : Artist Lambert’s bronze war
memorial for the Geelong Grammar School,
unveiled the other afternoon, shows two war-
weary Australian soldiers, one a Light Horse-
man and the other in the heavy trappings of
the trenches, in France, beaten to their knees
by the Prussian eagle, turned vulture. This
part of the group is realistically portrayed.
Above it rises the naked figure—or as naked
as the academic mind would permit—of cou-
rageous youth intent on the destruction of
the bird of prey. The conception was a fine
one, but the static element in Lambert’s
muse, which stultifies so many of his pic-
tures intervened and the total effect is
singularly poor. Courageous youth is beauti-
fully modelled, but liis pose is not that of a
fighter. He might be engaged at liis devo-
tions or boring in a leisurely fashion for oil.
However, he is perched so high on H.
Desbrowe-Annear’s Gothic pedestal that,
unless the observer climbs to one of the
classroom windows, neither his defects nor
his merits can be clearly seen. Ross. Tas-
mania, and the Geelong- quarries supplied the
freestone for the fine cloisters that form a
background for the group, which fronts the
lovely foreshore of Corio Bay.
Harry Stottle”: It made its appearance
in our local bookseller’s window the other
day: “For the Term of His Natural Life,”
“novelised by Marcus Clarke from the great
Australian film success of the same name.”
* * * *
“Bad Australian”: This isn’t the only
country with some queer place-names. Con-
sider a few of these from Argentina:
Las Chinchas (The Bugs), Fraile Muerto
(Dead Priest), Cabezade Buey (Bullock’s
Head), Pan y Azucar (Bread and Sugar),
Espinazo del Diablo (Devil’s Backbone),
Caracoles (Snails), Negro Quemada (Burnt
Nigger), Calaveras (Place of Skulls), Gringo
Borraclio (Drunken Gringo), and the Callan
Park of the Republic, with its natty little
railway-station and adjoining village, bears,
suggestively if not altogether appropriately,
the Spanish equivalent for Open Door.
* * *
“Florentine”: When I was on the h.o.
staff of a Queensland bank a new branch
was opened in a far-west town and a rather
serious youngster appointed manager. Some
months later his weekly report to h.o. dis-
closed that he had made an unsecured
advance to the local undertaker. In due
course the branch was visited by an inspec-
tor, who found everything in apple-pie order
MOSES HOGAN STRIKES THE ROCK.
“On May 23, when the new Vic. Labor Government tackled unemployment, there were
3347 registered out-of-works. On June 24, after the Government had spent the best part
el £100,000 and had advertised its intention of spending more, the figure had risen to 5472.”
THE MAN BEHIND THE ROCK: “Phew! Where’s this going to stop? Don’t forget
it’s me that’s working the miracle."
except the undertaker's little overdraft, which
seemed to have developed into something of a
fixture. Said the inspector, kindly but
firmly: “Look here, young X, you’ll have
to get this account in order. Have it paid
off, or insist on security being lodged. I
don’t wish to mar a good report by unfavor-
able comments on this one advance.” Next
morning the inspector, letting himself in at
the bank’s private entrance after breakfast,
was staggered to see a hearse in the back-
yard. “I interviewed Coffins yesterday after-
noon, sir,” explained the manager, “and this
was the only collateral lie could put up. It
gives us something tangible, anyhow. There's
not another hearse within miles, and I told
the undertaker that next time he wants to
use the hearse he’ll have to pay us off first.”
Before the end of the month the overdraft
was liquidated, and in the inspector’s confi-
dential report the manager was tersely
credited with “a very strong sense of duty.”
Hi H? * *
“John Cow”: The fact that Count Von
Luckner was bluffed into abandoning the
little See Adler near Fiji by an enterprising
young man without a weapon in his posses-
sion (B. 23/6/’27) recalls that the Germans
themselves first acquired the ship by methods
very similar. The See Adler was originally
the American schooner Pass of Balmaha, and
was on a voyage to Norway when it was
stopped by a British cruiser which put a
prize crew of six men on board. While they
were sailing their prize to port, along came
a German sub. and the prize crew ducked
below. The sub. put two youngsters on
board as a second prize crew, and then
left. Whether the Yankee skipper repre-
sented to the original prize crew that the
deck was crowded with German marines is
not known, but they wei*e still below till
the schooner reached Cuxhaven. There it
was seized by the Prize Court and later re-
fitted as the See Adler.
$ $ $ $
“Foreclose” : The bailiff retains his habit
of appearing at most annoying moments.
The other day, when the cables were burn-
ing with their fame, and Berlin was “hoch”-
ing itself hoarse in admiration of the Trans-
atlantic flight of Chamberlin and Levine,
an interfering and quite unimpressed person
with a piece of blue paper stepped in and
took possession of the airmen’s ’plane. It
appeared Levine had incurred a medical bill
of £2OOO to a Hun practitioner two years
before—the explanation of the stiffness of
the fee, may perhaps be found in the patient
being a reputed millionaire—and the creditor
grabbed his chance to administer the neces-
sary plaster. Levine is said to have only
decided to board the ’plane a few minutes
before the start, so that he possibly hadn't
time to look up the list of his creditors.
It is noticeable that, though the American
Embassy, the German Foreign Office and
the Prussian Ministry of Justice combined
to cancel the seizure, and the Judge who
issued the writ was reprimanded, “the settle-
ment, with mutual apologies, was made on
a cash basis.” So, after all. the bailiff
triumphed over the hero. He generally does.
* * * *
“Wang” : In a Melbourne suburban police
court the other day a small shopkeeper
invoked the law against a lady customer for
assault and damage to his stock. The latter
consists largely of crockery, and according
to complainant’s evidence the lady appeared
on the premises one evening and without
a word of explanation began bombarding
him with his own cups and saucers and pie-
dishes. At this stage the defendant shrilly
took up the running. “Y’ Washups,” she
assured them, “he deserved all he got, an’
more, th’ schemin’ blighter. It’s this way.
y' Washups. Me hushing has been cornin’
home of nights lately well tanked up, an’
when I starts ter ask him civil questings
he goes crook, an’ starts chuckin’ th’ tea
things about. Ev’ry blessed day lately I’ve
had ter send up to this bloke’s place fer
two or three new cups an’ sorcers. Th’ other
night I goes up ter th’ pub, an’ finds this
bloke fillin’ me ole man up with beer, knowin’
he’ll come home an’ break up more of me
crock’ry, an’ I’ll have ter buy more from
him. See!” The Bench said it did, and
fined the lady ten bob and a couple of quid
damages.
* * * *
“Anthony Gloster”: These N. S. Wales
railways! To transport a diminutive
pony to Sydney from a town near
the Q. border, I have just ordered a truck
capable of carrying 16 bullocks. The price
is £9 and the poor little chap will rattle round
in it like a pea in a dipper, but a horse-
truck would cost nearly double. In Queens-
land one can at least get a half-size cattle-
truck, which means greater comfort to a
single occupant. In that State I once had two
goats sent to me in a dog-box, which suited
them well enough, except that it was a
squeeze for their horns. 1 have seen a young
bull placed in a dog-box that was high
enough; there being insufficient room for
him to turn round, he was safer than
in a cattle-truck, as he could not be knocked
over.
dr ...
“Bouragi”: Two evangelists at a
mission conference in Adelaide last
week almost came to ungodly blows
because one said the other had been
known to shoot at aboriginals in Arn-
heim Land, and that his “revolver-
muzzle methods” had been responsible
for the recent spearing of a missionary
somewhere at the top end of the conti-
nent. The accused gospeller, while
hotly denying the impeachment that
he had ever shot up his flock, frankly
admitted that he had occasionally
found it necessary to wallop some of
the lambs with “a doubled stockwhip,”
presumably for their souls’ sake. The
good man’s candor deserves commen-
dation. The missionary is only human,
and is as apt as anyone else to back
a word with a blow if occasion calls
for it. But he usually prefers to draw
a veil over these wholesome methods of
correction, for fear that the debased
and unbridled trader, the avaricious
miner and the arbitrary Government
official should think themselves en-
titled to do likewise. And, if any of
these do take action of the kind, the
shepherd may be relied upon to present
it in bright colors in his mission re-
ports and press interviews when he
returns to civilisation.
* * *
“Cramped Up”: The high gabled
roof is surely an anomaly atop of the
smaller and less pretentious Australian
homes. No doubt it is the ideal roof
to decrease snow-lodgment, but there
are not many places in this part of the
world where that consideration comes
in. No doubt, also, it is picturesque.
But to folk living on the very bread-
line of architecture, who have to make
four rooms do the work of eight, it is
annoying to have about a third of the
total house-space poked up between
the ceiling and the roof. If the gabled
roof is such an essential, couldn’t it be
gabled enough to let even the jerry-
builder put an attic or two therein V
Of course, these would become little
ovens in summer, but with sufficient
ventilation (shuttered lights to open
out a whole side are usually possible)
they cool off quickly and catch what
air there is. Even if they could be
only partially utilised, they would be
preferable to the verandah makeshifts
employed to eke out insufficient house-
room.
* jH
“Bill o’ Costs”: I wonder how often
these “estates in Chancery” exploited
by next-of-kin agencies materialise. I
once sent, on behalf of an optimistic
client, the specified small fee for in-
formation relating to the estate of
(say) John Smithers, tabulated in the
agency’s list. A reply came with a
meagre statement that the estate was
that of John Smithers, of Cheapside or
Hammersmith, merchant, and an inti-
mation that for another fee of one
guinea a full copy would be sent of the
official advertisement for claims. We
coughed up accordingly, and in due
time came a copy of a moth-eaten
advertisement for the claims of credi-
tors upon a London bankrupt estate!
And here is another instance that
throws some b'ght on the methods
employed. Fully 40 years ago my
brother-in-law came into a share of his
father’s estate which would have gone
to his brother Alfred had not Alfred
mislaid himself, been advertised for
fruitlessly and finally been presumed
dead. Only quite recently I came
across a dodger of one of the agencies
quoting the trustee’s advertisement for
tins same Alfred (without dates) as
evidence that there were unclaimed
funds waiting for anyone who could
prove relationship. Doubtless for years the
agency lias been answering inquiries and
drawing fees from hopeful people who once
had a divorced uncle named Alfred.
* * * *
“A.C.W.”: “Spare Sub.” in some remarks
about the weapons carried by Melbourne and
Sydney “gunmen” criticises the revolver un-
favorably in comparison with the modern
automatic pistol (B. 30/6/’27). His
opinion is not in accord with military
experience. American and German officers
were invariably equipped with the automatic
during the war, while our officers carried
revolvers. There was no question about
the stopping power of the latter; the nickel-
coated automatic bullet, on the other hand,
was found to inflict such a small wound
that it lacked stopping quality. The extreme
range of the Army Webley is given as 1550
yards in musketry Regs.; so that it is not
easy to imagine the flight of the bullet
being seriously interfered with by the thick-
ness of a suit of clothes at close range. At
a conference held near Charleroi just after
the Armistice for the purpose of discussing
possible improvements to the British service
kit. I still remember the unanimity with
which it was decided that the reliable old
Webley should be retained in preference to
the automatic.


they must be
OVAL H EAVY WEIGHT
CIGARETTES


ħ
‘JAjI cLrinh that p/eases tA& Pa/ate*
o
D
a
a
AN ORANGE DRINK
MANUFACTURED
EXCLUSIVELY BY
THE
PORT OF HULL
for reception of
Frozen Meat exported to
Great Britain.
Cold Storage, 890,000 Cubic Feet.
Prompt Despatch in Refrigerator
Waggons to All Parts of the
Country by Express Trains of the
London and North-Eastern Railway
AUSTRALIAN SHIPPERS are invited to
inquire for further information at the offices
of Messrs. BURNS, PHILP & CO., LTD.,
10 Bridge Street, Sydney, and Branches.
L.N.E.R.
Largest Dock-owning Railway in
the World.
Usher’s Hotel Ltd
Castlereagh Street, Sydney.
A first-class new and up-to-date
modern hotel.
Running hot and cold water in all bed-
rooms and many have Bath de Luxe.
Automatic bedside telephones.
English and Trench Cuisine.
New Marble Bar, spacious and airy.
For perfection of service, comfort
and cleanliness, Usher’s Ltd. is un-
equalled.
Inclusive Terms, apply
MANAGER.
“Muggins, Junior": A funeral was on in
our little bush township and the visiting
parson, an earnest eon vert-hunter, prepared
to be driven to the cemetery on the hearse,
there being no mourners. Settling himself
comfortably he turned to the undertaker with
•he query, “What religion might you be, Mr.
McJones?" Came the surly response, “I
might be a Oalathumpian." But the
parson refused to be discouraged and went
on to deliver a masterly discourse on the
merits of his particular denomination. As
he was climbing down from the hearse at
the cemetery, he remarked, “We’ve had a
very pleasant chat, Mr. McJones, and we
must continue it on the wmy home.” “Well,
yer don’t ride on my ’earse, that’s all!”
returned the undertaker. It w\as no idle
threat either; nearly an hour after the
hearse a very weary and dusty parson arrived
in town.
THINGS MIGHT BE WORSE.
MISTRESS: “The master is always complaining of your cooking.”
COOK: “Thank ’eavens I ain’t married to ’im, Mum.”
“H.H.” : The razor fiend who takes slices
off his enemy or his casual acquaintance or a
complete stranger with a large shaving im-
plement has developed suddenly in Sydney,
where lie was rather a novelty till the other
day. The theory is that a wandering tribe
has come across from Melbourne in search
of peace and bloodshed, and having recruited
its forces in the Ma State capital is hitting
up the pace. In a sense Melbourne is the
thug s paradise, and in a sense it isn’t. Minor
justice is still administered by flabby
amateurish “justices,” who overrule the pro-
fessional magistrates, and discharge almost
everybody without a stain on his character,
or else make it a microscopic fine. They
can all grant bail, and some are so philan-
thropic that they will travel miles at all
hours to accept the bond of a petty criminal
who probably gives a false name, so that
he may collect his pal and’ take him away
rejoicing. Jury-squaring is rampant, and
the inefficient police are said to be often
rampant too. But life has its drawbacks,
for the Arabian pushite is always being
mauled with impunity by his rival, the
Amalekite pushite, and even when he goes
to a strange city for a spell he is apt to
find that the other hoodlum is doing the
same. Whereupon there is annoyance over
the death of some third party who chanced to
be passing. There are Melbourne pushes
which have reputedly been trying to extir-
pate each other for 20 years. They haven't,
succeeded yet but they live in hope.
* * * *
“Coot”: The ever-eourtly Clapp, who as
foster-parent of Vic. Railways spends a lot
of time trying to put a human touch into
the business, has issued the following in-
struction to station staffs :—“lnstances some-
times occur of lady passengers being accom-
panied to the station by a male friend to
place their luggage on trains at stations
where luggage-porters or other employees
are not available to render such assistance.
In any such case the gentleman may be
permitted access to the platform free of
charge, on the understanding that he will
afterwards promptly return through the bar-
rier. The officer in charge, however, should
satisfy himself of the bona fides of such
cases.” It’s a fair bet that the attitude
of the officer in charge will depend largely
upon the physique of the escorting swain.
* * $ $
“Ming”: The telephone “party line” (B.
30/6/’27) used to brighten up life in Maori-
land, too. I was staying in a country dis-
trict where practically every farm is con-
nected in this way, and one night the eldest
son called up a neighboring farmer for a
little business talk. “I saw those pigs of
old Mrs. Brown’s,” he said, “and I think we
had better buy them. She wants two pounds
ten, but I think we can get them for 855.”
Before the neighbor could comment a shrill
voice cut in, “No, you don’t, young man!
Them pigs is two pounds ten and I don’t
let ’em go for a penny less!” On another
occasion the society light of the district, an
attractive widow, who was suspect of designs
on the local storekeeper, gauged from the
state of the wire that all the other subscribers
had their cars cocked. Very sweetly and
deliberately she began: “Now, I know you
are all listening, so I’ll tell you right away
what it is all about and you can hang up
your receivers. Mr. Blank and I are going
to have a chat about blood-and-bone manure!”
❖ ❖ *
“Selma”: Bill, a casual Australian, on his
way to his second matrimonial adventure —
the first knot had been untied by Judge Owen
—met his ex-missus doing a bit of shop-
ping. Not wishing to appear unfriendly he
stopped and spoke, and presently found him-
self inviting the lady to his second wedding.
She, having the morning off and nothing
better to do. accepted, and they went along
together. ‘T’m marrying Maudie Jones,
from Paddington,” explained Bill; “she’s a
bonzer girl.” Neither Maudie nor her rela-
tives expressed the slightest objection to the
presence of the first Mrs. Bill, who was the
life and soul of the wedding breakfast. It
was only when the newly-weds drove off that
SAVING HER REPUTATION.
“Here, don’t frown like that, Harry, or people will think I’m your wife.”
slie presumed on her previous acquaintance.
Above the roar of parting good wishes and
the noise of the taxi floated a shrill voice.
“Maudie,” it said, “if you have any trouble
with him just come along to me, an’ I’ll
tell you the things wot will send him dippy
in a week!”
* ij: # Hi
“Exdig”: The query in a Sydney paper as
to what exactly is the definition of an Aus-
tralian reminds me of a similar argument
around the brazier in a military liut in
France. Price had come to Australia as a
boy of seven, and had at least learnt the
language, but Casey insisted that nobody but
one born in the country could call himself
Australian. “What sort of a blankard is an
Australian anyway?” demanded Price to get
a more exact definition. Casey gave it fiercely.
“An Australian is a blankard who won’t let
any blankard call him a blankard,” he said.
The argument stopped at that. Casey was
physically a big blankard.
* * * *
“Aasvogel”: Imperial Airways, a British
aviation concern which carries a lot of pre-
cious freight across the English Channel by
night and day, has resolved to arm its crews
with pistols for the discouragement of aerial
buccaneers. Personally, the writer has been
expecting the arrival of the “airwayman” in
the press headlines for some time. ’Planes
are nowadays so easily come by that a hold-
up by evilly-disposed persons is well within
the range of probabilities. The opportuni-
ties for a clean getaway after disabling the
robbed ’plane seem excellent, while the neces-
sary Lewis gun for the attack could easily
be concealed at the outset, and dropped into
the sea after the job was done. And sub-
sequent identification would be very difficult,
especially if, after landing the swag, the
robber ’bus caught fire or was otherwise
accidentally obliterated.
* * * #
“M.G.S.”: Napier Waller, the one-armed
artist, has achieved a success in his mural
decoration of Menzies’ bar in Melbourne
although his painting isn’t strictly mural.
He paints on canvas, instead of direct on to
the wall as the ancient Egyptians did, and
his method is more sensible. It is difficult
to remove a wall to a place of safety in case
of fire, and strong neck-muscles are needed
to paint acres of ceiling as M. Angelo did.
I wonder why more artists don’t follow
Waller’s example. I attend approximately
100 art shows in Melbourne every year, and
of the 10,000 canvases (approximately) I
gaze upon I doubt if 10 per cent, are sold.
The rest go where the flies go in winter,
and the economic waste must be frightful.
Apparently the market represented by flat-
ites and suburban home-dwellers is over-
supplied with pictures, and it is time the
artists looked elsewhere. It isn’t only hotels
that offer possibilities. Our public buildings
are as drab inside as they are outside. Banks,
big shops, boardrooms, town halls and the-
atres would be none the worse for a little
mural decoration ; and it should not be im-
possible to educate their owners up to the
point where they will commence competing
for our Powers, Ashtons and Buckmasters
as popes and once princes competed for Ben
Cellini and Michael A. Buonarotti.
“Robert Bruce”: Among those who could
give a little pertinent evidence about the
effectiveness of the emergency buttons in
N.S.W. railway carriages (B. 16/6/’27) are
some youngsters who were travelling to
Forbes (N.S.W.) High School when one
of their number used this method of stop-
ping the train to retrieve a hat which had
gone overboard. The roar of the guard,
the subsequent roars of other officials and
the ultimate bellow of their own headmaster
about the enormity of the crime are ringing
in their ears yet. By the way, several of
these youngsters come from Manildra, 57
miles .each way daily. Is this a record?
* * * *
“Bulantum”: The native population of
the mandated territory of New Guinea is
certainly declining in various islands, such
as New Ireland, where the natives are ex-
pert abortionists ; but on the mainland, par-
ticularly in the Morobe District, it is in-
creasing rapidly (B. 28/4/’27). The average-
native marries at about 16 years of ago
and is in the habit of begetting five or six
children. The natives of Kyabit in the Mark-
ham Yalley live largely on bananas. Twelve
years ago the crop failed, and 50 young
children from Kyabit were exchanged to
the natives of Gatsup on the other side of
the valley in return for a supply of the
staple article of food.
* * * *
“Eureka”: Down in the Bega (N.S.W.)
district a young man with a craze for experi-
menting has established telephone communi-
cation between his own and his father’s
home, which are three miles apart. The
wire used was the top wire of a three-wire
fence and the receivers were constructed
from baking-powder tins. The pair could
ring each other up any time during the
day or night and the whole outfit cost less
than five shillings.
THE OPTIMIST.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Hie Jack lie sits on a broken limb and laughs
at the break of day,
ith a laugh chockfull of the joy of life and
a carefree note and gay.
He laughs with glee at the bright new dawn
_ and the promise fair it brings,
W hile the cloudy earth is tipped with flame
he laughs and the whole world sings.
And lie laughs again when the shadows fall
and the night winds start to sigh
And the homing birds sweep softly past
through the saffron-tinted sky,
With a grateful note in his merry peal for a
sun-kissed day well spent
lie laughs his thanks to the first shy stars
from a heart that is well content!
Hut he laughs his best when skies are grey
and the world seems all awry
In the rain’s grey wrack and the restless wind
and the storm clouds weltering by,
When the cowering cattle bow their heads
and the wind-tossed treetops reel
See him shake his head with a scornful air
and laugh while the thunders peal.
AVe can all of us laugh when the skies are
blue and the world lies at our feet.
With the road of life like a flower-strewn
path stretched smooth to its dim retreat;
AVe can smile in pride on the summit gained
when the long hard climb is past.
Rut few of us smile wliile the way is rough
and the skies are overcast.
AVhen the night is black with the storms of
care and the trailing clouds of grief
Have blotted out the stars of hope and the
dawn brings no relief,
AVhen the cup is drained to the deepest dregs,
the worst that the world can bring.
Remember the bird who laughs in the storm,
laughs loud till the echoes ring!
VICTORIA.
ste
A. G. B.


Superfine
»*«!*»****
vm*.
m
.
J
>
5^
mm
O
s ;
CTT) >
oae ?
• -V" *
'V
'if ‘ *
M
7
v-y
Old Age
Respeds Old Age.


Metrovick” Products Include
The Mark of
Efficiency
TURBO-ALTERNATORS
ROTARY CONVERTERS
AUTOMATIC SUB-STATIONS
SUPERVISORY CONTROL
TRACTION APPARATUS
GENERATORS, A.C. AND D.C.
INDUSTRIAL MOTORS
CONTROL GEAR
TRANSFORMERS
SWITCHGEAR, A.C. AND D.C.
INSTRUMENTS
PERMIT US TO QUOTE FOR YOUR REQUIREMENTS.
MELBOURNE,
SYDNEY,
ADELAIDE.
wpraN
BRISBANE
AND
WELLINGTON, N.Z.
NOBEL-GLASGOW EXPLOSIVES.
The Standard of Quality throughout the Empire.
Monobel
Samsonite
Gelatine Dynamite
Gelignite
Blasting Gelatine
Dynamite
Safety Fuse
Detonators
Cartridges
SECURE A RELIABLE EXECUTOR
by appointing
The Trustees, Executors and Agency Co., Limited,
412 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE.
(The Pioneer Trustee Company of Australasia.)
Its experience of over 48 years in controlling all classes of Estates ensures a service that will
protect the interests of your dependants.
If you have already appointed a private Executor, the Company can be substituted by a short
codicil.
SECURITY: Capital (Paid and Uncalled) and Reserves exceed £886,000
Arrange an interview or write for booklet.
DIRECTORS: Sir John Grice (Chairman), Sir J. H. MacFarland, M.A., T.T..D. (Vice-Chairman),
Harry Emmerton, R. 0. Blackwood, D. Stuart Murray, Alexander Stewart, .T. Fordyce.
CHAS. R. SMIBERT, General Manager. V. G. WATSON. Manager.
The WILD CAT
COLUMN
Australian Glass Manufacturers Co.,
Ltd.:—
March, Paid Capital. Net Profit.
1917*. . £276,005 £27,367
1918 .. 276,005 23,023
1919 .. 276,005 20,309
1920 . . 276,005 51,106
1921 . . 442,489 65,524
*l5 months.
Reconstructed and amalgamated with Zetland Glass
Bottle Works, Ltd.
, Dividends. N Nominal
Net Pref. To Re- Re-
Profit. 9 p.c. Ordinaries. serves, serves.
March, £ £ £ £ £
1923* 139,370 18,675 10 p.c. = 90,850 30,145 30,145
Reserve adjustment .. 456 30,601
1924.. 147,207 15,750 10 p.c. = 77.570 53,887 84,488
1925.. 151,210 15,750 10 „ ~80,780 54,680 139,168
1926.. 163,799 15,750 10 „ „ 91,094 56,955 196,123
1927.. 179,365 15,750 10 „ „ 93,044 70,571 266,694
*l4 months.
Although practically only the same amount
of capital was at work as during 1925-26 pro-
fits were £15,566 greater. After allowing
9 p.c. for the 175,000 prefs., arid the 10
p.c. to ordinaries, the balance lifted re-
serves to £266,694. Reserves need to be sub-
stantial. Not only is capital well in excess
of the million, but goodwill is in at £114,500
(hence the “nominal” of the introductory
table). Moreover, the co. is entering a field
in which it is the Australian pioneer, and
it yet has to map the obstacles and pitfalls.
Still the visible position is good, and this
Column has a very definite suspicion that
there is more than a little profit hidden in
odd corners.
Expansion of activities continues. Glass-
bottle making is still the co.’s mainstay, but
glass containers of all kinds and bottles for
milk are being turned out in increasing quan-
tities. Efforts are being made to encourage
food packers to put up their goods in glass,
and the co. has plant in reserve “in anti-
cipation of the very desirable reform of
distributing milk in glass bottles.” It con-
trols a patent vacuum seal for containers;
and plant is said to be “the last word”: —-
The outstanding acquisition is the new scientific
lehr, which thermostatically controls the annealing
of bottles and jars. Their installation in all our
factories, which is now being rapidly completed, has
demonstrated that the patent and installation costs
have been well justified. A mechanical device,
designed to work in conjunction with the lehr, will
make production completely automatic. Substantial
permanent manufacturing advantages should accrue
from its use. The co. has also acquired the sole
Australian rights for an improved glass feeder and
bottle-forming machine. The feeder, though a dis-
tinct and important feature, enables a more uniform
quality to be maintained, and its use in the Sydney
factory has already proved its advantage over other
single feeders. The first model of the bottle-forming
machine, which is about to be shipped from the
United States, is designed to produce (within certain
limits) 75 per cent, more ware.
A new bottle-making unit in course of erec-
tion at Spotswood (Vic.) will be in operation
by October. During the year the co. took
over and remodelled the W.A. Glass Works.
Crown Crystal Glass is the subsidiary
which handles the making of flintware. Keen
foreign competition and inadequate Protec-
tion have made progress almost impossible,
and the co. has stated its case before the
Tariff Board for higher duties. The next
big step will be to supply the Common-
wealth's requirements of sheet glass. In-
creased duties were granted 12 months ago,
but the management is moving with the
utmost care. No start has yet been made
with the factory; first the pressed-glass
branch is to be properly established. Mean-
time the co.’s technical experts are on the
job in London and on the Continent, and
they are to consult with those directors who
are at present overseas.
Here is a comparison of balance-sheet
figures:—
1924. 1926. 1927.
Liabilities .. .. £8.7,507 £46,919 £161,194*
Land and buildings .. 206,067 186,836 191,608
Machinery and plant. . 451,364 365,625 300,222
Stocks.. .. .. 316,225 340,374 387,253
Book debts . . .. 127,901 160,743 144,322
Gosh, investments, etc. 18,816 324,430 449.859
*lncludes “provision for taxation.”
On this occasion the movements are not
quite so easily followed because there has
been an amalgamation of items. The leap
in liabilities would call for comment were
it not that in the previous balance-sheet
“provision for taxation” appeared at £89,711
and this entry lias now been included with
creditors. As “provision for taxation” had
expanded by solid amounts each year—it
was only £65,649 in 1925—it is likely that
the process was repeated last year. The
“Wild Cat” would almost wager one of its
kittens that only a modest portion of the
increase was in liabilities; it, strongly sus-
pects that something for contingencies is
hidden there. Indeed, the movements suggest
that the co. is intent on hiding strength, not
weakness. Consider the last item in the
above table: the entry now appears as “loans
at short call and investments”:—
1925. 1920. 1927.
Cash £3,343 £6,264 ]
Deposits .. . . 57,902 127,647 I
Commonwealth stock . . 30,293 50,834 ]- £449,859
Shares and interest in
other cos 7,105 139,685 ]
The total is £125,429 greater. Most of that
may be represented by an increase in the
shareholdings—Crown Crystal’s registered
capital was £200,000. It is by no means
unlikely, however, that much of it repre-
sented a growth in the liquids; a glance at
the movements in 1926 encourages the idea.
Moreover, although nothing is said as to the
amount put aside for depreciation, etc., land
and buildings are only a few thousand more
than at March 31, 1926; and machinery
and plant are actually £65,403 less, and
almost £127,000 less than at March 31, 1925.
Obviously, the writing-o# is on a liberal
scale; the co. will have to amalgamate more
balance-sheet items before it will succeed in
hiding that fact. The co., with three tech-
nical Smiths and another who is an expert
at accountancy and business organisation to
help it, is building up at a great rate; and,
if it succeeds in obtaining the Protection it
seeks and the plate-glass proposition is up to
expectations, earnings should increase far
beyond their present level. The 10 p.c. is
a simple matter, and something considerably
better should come to shareholders later on.
Profs, are in the happy position of seeing
tangible assets to the amount of £7 3s. 9d.
for each share, and average profits over the
past four years have been 10 times greater
than the amount necessary to pay their
divs. The shares are keenly sought for,
buyers offering 41s. for the ords.
•-'= * :|: *
Porkrt Harper and Co. (Melb.), whole-
sale drygoods merchants:—
Reserves
(Assets
Dividends. include
/■ — A s £BO,OOO
“A” “B” of
Pref. Ord. Ord. To Re- Good-
Mar., Profits. 7 p.c. 7 p.c. 54 p.c. serves, will).
£ £ £ £ £ £
1917.. 29,838 8,400 16,800 434 4,204 20,672
8 p.c. 6 p.c.
1918.. 39,517 9,450 19,200 496 10,371 31,043
1919.. 39,105 10,500 19,200 496 8,909 39.952
1920.. 45,808 10,500 19,200 496 15,612 55.564
1921.. 38,125 10,500 19,200 600 7,825 63,389
1922.. 41,020 10,500 19,200 600 10,720 74,109
Inner reserves disclosed . . 80,000 154,109
1923.. 46,016 10,500 19,200 600 15,716 169,825
1924.. 50,469 10,500 19,200 1050 19.719 189,544
1925. . 51,488 10,500 19,200 1425 20,363 209,907
1926.. 50,453 10.509 19,200 1500 19,253 229,160
1927.. 49,443 10,500 19,200 1800 17,943 247,103
This well-managed concern came through
the year with its usual success. Drygoods
have proved a trap for many cos., large and
small, and last year was leaner than usual
to _ many. . Harper’s, however, occupies a
unique position in the specialty field; large-
scale buying and general efficiency have com-
bined to set it there. During the year an
extra £5OOO was got in by the issue of fur-
ther “B” (employees’) shares, but in a
capital of £420,000 the direct influence of
that small sum would be slight. The 150,000
prefs. receive 7 p.c.; the 30,000 “B” shares
6 p.c. Ordinaries were given 8 p.c.; that
rate has ruled for a whole decade.
Deserves were lifted to £247,103, which,
allowing for the presence of £BO,OOO of good-
will, is a comforting accumulation.
A year ago chairman Robert Gibson justi-
fied the management’s very conservative
policy on the grounds that “if an opportunity
of expansion offered, whether in the develop-
ment of the business in any direction, or in
expenditure in fixed assets, the co. would
have available the capital necessary for such
operations.” Thus far there is no hint of,
expansion, but the co. is splendidly posi-
tioned to take prompt advantage of any offer
or opening, as these figures show:—
1919. 1924. 1926. 1927.
Mortgages. . . . £35,733
Deposits . . .. 31,318
Overdraft .. . . 72,103 .
Sundry creditors.. 94,014 £49,034 £57,636 £44,214
Freeholds .. ..135,682 146,624 145,413 145 202
Plant, etc. . . 81,769 72,456 65,291 59,858
Leaseholds .. 400
st oek .. . . 234,710 143,481 175,092 127,286
Sundry debtors . . 145,856 135,546 139,378 144,742
Government securi-
ties, cash, etc. . . 22,367 85,921 112,221 169,980
With £70.000 in cash and £lOO,OOO in Gov-
ernment securities, the position was singu-
larly strong. The co. does not let its
conservatism stop at divs. The freeholds,
which represent the co.’s premises and
stores in four States, are in at low figures,
and the plant and fixtures, despite extensive
additions, appear at less than two-thirds the
figure of 1914; last year the item was £5434
lower than at March 31, 1920. Stocks, as
usual, appear at cost or under: and book
debts, although fairly solid, may be taken
as being worth every penny of the entry.
Here is a view from another angle:—
1917. 1927.
Liquid assets . . £350,985 £442,007 Inc. £91,022
Fixed assets . . 210,830 205,060 Dec. 5,770
Total assets . . £561,815 £647,067 Inc. £85,252
Liabilities .. . . 231,418 44,214 Dec. 187,204
Over that period new capital amounting to
£51,732 has been raised, so that the visible
improvement over the period amounts to
£220,724, and, as already indicated, there
are signs that contingency reserves have
been carefully attended to. If more is wanted,
there is the evidence of confidence contained
in the disclosure of £BO,OOO of inner reserves
five years ago. Prefs. occupy a strong
position. Net tangible assets amount to
£587,103, equal to £3 18s. 3d. per share,
and average earnings over the past 10 years
have been more than four times the total
of their requirements. In a case of this
kind the question of a bonus distribution
is not likely to be decided in a hurry. The
market is not discouraged by the delay, and
high prices are paid for the shares whenever
they appear in the market, although the
fact that only a small number are loose to
meet the keen demand is an undoubted in-
fluence. Last sale which this Column can
trace was at 325., back in February.
* * =l= *
Makic Foy’s, Ltd., drapers, furnishers,
etc., of Sydney:—
, Dividends
Pref. To Re- Re-
Mar., Profit. 6 p.c. Ordinary. serves. serves.
£ £ £ £ £
1917.. 71,076 16,374 10 p.c. = 40,000 14,702 12,124
1918.. 87,804 16,374 13 „ „ 52,000 19,430 31,554
Taxation reserve taken in . . 41,000 72,554
1919.. 117.359 16,374 13 p.c. = 52,000 48.985 121,539
£50,000 ot Reserves capitalised . . 71,639
1920.. 117.912 16,374 13 p.c. = 58,500 43,038 114,577
1921.. 311 16,374 13 „ „ 58,500 51,437 166,014
1922.. 90,818 16,374 13 ~ „ 58,500 15,944 181,958
Profit from sale of assets . . 29,338 211,296
1923.. 497 16,374 15 p.c. = 67,500 35,623 246,919
1924.. 16,374 15 „ „ 67,500 32,447 279.366
1925.. 122.395 16,374 15 „ „ 67,500 38,521 317,887
1926.. 107.690 16,374 15 „ „ 67,500 23,816 341,703
1927-133,021 16,374 15 „ „ 71,250 45,397 387,100
Despite disorganisation caused by rebuilding,
profit disclosed was much better than that of
the previous year. Additional capital was
raised —£50,000 outstanding on the new
shares was called up—but the amount unpro-
ductive in the new premises during the term
doubtless offset that. A larger amount went
out in divs., but there was a splendid balance
to add to reserves. The additions to the
co.’s premises are being erected in sections;
the first portion is well on the way. The
increased profit indicates that the co. has
satisfactorily solved its problem of rebuild-
ing without upsetting its trading, and if last
year’s success can be maintained over the
next two terms shareholders should have
reason to cheer the management. The fact
that the store is opposite the Museum Station
of the new Underground—one entrance passes
a special corridor of show windows in Mark
Foy’s basement —should be worth something,
perhaps a great deal. In any case, earn-
ings could suffer a severe jolt before share-
holders would need to worry. Apart from
a very severe setback —quite possible but
not at present visible —there seems little
likelihood of the 15 p.c. suffering alteration.
Balance-sheet figures were, of course,
affected by the building programme, but
nevertheless show general improvement
1920. 1925. 1926. 1927.
Liabilities . . £27,181 £21,860 £35,572 £30,881
Property .. . . 306,000 368,208 371,641 452,534
Plant, etc. . . 20,805 74,980 76,420 88.650
Stocks .. .. 494,611 624,972 630,482 625,271
Book debts . . 17,114 61,025 62,195 58,967
Cash, etc. . i 92,818 9,151 35,126 44,898
The property item was more than £BO,OOO
greater; furniture and plant went up by
£12,230; and, although stocks and book debts
were a few thousands less, the cash position
was £8225 better than at the previous bal-
ance : and liabilities also were lighter. The
position is remarkably strong. Gross profit
was £16,395 greater at £410,814. How much
of income comes from the shops and how
much from the factories is not stated. As
the co. has for a long time been manufactur-
ing, it seems certain that its experience last
year must have been happier than usual
owing to the operation over the whole 12
months of the increased duties. Expenses
increased by only £4065. The diminutive
amount owing to trade creditors and the
small total of book debts indicate two sources
of Mark Foy’s success —cash payments and
cash sales.
Continued proof of keen management has
made the shares popular. The properties are
undervalued, and the co. has always been
suspected of viewing its stock-sheets with
a cold eye and a sharp pencil; and the fact
that favorable figures were disclosed in the
post-war slump still further impresses the
market. Reserves are more than 77 p.c. of
ordinary capital, and that encourages share-
holders to think that something even better
than 15 p.c. might some day arrive. A bonus
issue of £50,000 was made in 1920 and one
of £lOO,OOO in 1917. The balance-sheet is
clean; goodwill of £lOO,OOO was written off
early in the co.’s career. The 272,902 prefs.
are well secured; at March 15 they could
sec net tangible assets amounting to 85s. for
each share. In the circumstances, it is not
surprising that, despite their low interest rate
—6 p.c.—they stand at par on the market.
Ordinaries are -well held: there are buyers at
575.
* * * *
The Argus Permanent Building
Investment Society (Melbourne) :
To He- Re-
April, Profits. Dividends. serves, serves.
1917.. £l7OO 7 p.c. =£1646 £6O £6,800
1918.. 1934 7 „ „ 1640 288 7,088
1919.. 2070 7 „ ~ 1646 424 7,512
1920.. 2139 7 „ „ 1646 493 8,005
Written off, £3OO . . 7,705
1921.. 2973 9 p.c. = 2161 812 8,517
1922.. 2728 9 „ „ 2208 520 9,037
1923.. 2870 9 „ ~ 2250 620 9,657
1924.. 3186 9 „ „ 2250 936 10,593
1925.. 2831 9 „ ~ 2250 . 581 11,174
1926.. 2861 9 „ „ 2250 611 11,785
1927.. 3359 10 „ „ 2500 859 12,644
Now that gilt-edged stocks are. falling back
towards 5-| p.c., the building societies have
less difficulty in attracting deposits; but the
amount available is still not large. The
directors have apparently considered the out-
look bright enough to warrant a visit to its
bankers, overdraft moving from £235 to
£15,619. This greater volume of outside
money explains the hefty increase in
advances:—
1914. 1922. 1925. 1927.
Capital .. £22,462 £25,000 £25,000 £25,000
Deposits . . 23,649 19,067 17,432 20,507
Other-liabilities 7,133 6,067 13,549 19,655
Advances .. 56,065 60,573 68,480 79,610
Other assets.. 4,033 807 1,053 934
Land values in and around Melbourne are
high, and extreme caution is necessary. Still,
the margin of safety insisted on by building
societies is generally wide enough, and each
instalment of the repayment reduces the
risk. Outside money was -well secured, there
being at April 30 for every £1 held assets
with a book value of 40s. The increased
div. does not starve reserves, which are being-
built up nicely, and now equal 50 p.c. of
paid capital.
* * *
Nicholson and Co., Ltd. (Sydney), who
sell musical instruments, etc.:—
To Re- Re-
Profits. Dividends. serves, serves.
Mar., ’17.. £B,OBl 10 p.c. = £6,998 £lOB3 £45,968
Sept., ’17.. 7,968 10 „ „ 6,998 970 46,938
Mar., ’lB.. 7,741 10 ~ ~ 6,998 743 47,681
Sept., ’lB.. 8,037 10 „ ~ 6,998 1039 48,720
Mar., ’19.. 7,970 10 „ „ 6,998 972 49,692
Sept., ’19.. 8,212 10 ~ ~ 6,998 1214 50,906
Mar., ’20.. 9,821 10 ~ „ 6,998 2823 53,729
Sept., ’20.. 10,093 10 „ 6,998 3095 56,824
Reserves capitalised, e 52,587 . . 4,237
Mar., ’21.. 11,184 10 p.c. = 9,641 1543 5,780
Sept., ’21.. 10,413 10 „ ~ 9,622 791 6,571
Mar., ’22.. 10.748 10 „ ~ 9,603 1145 7,716
Sept., ’22.. 10,654 10 „ ~ 9,622 1032 8,748
Mar., ’23.. 10,’703 10 „ „ 9,622 1081 9,829
Sept., ’23.. 11,714 10 „ 9,641 2073 11.902
Mar., ’24.. 12,097 10 „ ~ 9.641 2456 14,358
Sept., ’24.. 12,493 10 „ „ 9,641 2852 17,210
Mar., ’25.. 1.2,569 10 „ ~ 9,641 2928 20,138
Sept., ’25.. 13,138 10 „ ~ 10,167 2971 23,109
Mar., ’26.. 13,003 10 „ ~ 10,956 2047 25,156
Sept., ’26.. 12,134 10 ~ „ 10,956 1178 26,334
Mar., ’27.. 12,983 10 ~ „ 10,956 2027 28,361
Gross profits were £3045 greater than at
the previous March, but growing expenditure
more than wiped out the gain. The 10 p.c.
was, however, comfortably earned and the
co. strengthened its reserves over the 12
months by the usual modest few thousands.
Visible reserves are not much of a support
to capital and the process of building up,
although steady, is slow. The bonus issue
in 1921 was rather hearty, and the co. has
been fortunate that Prosperity has acted as
handmaiden to Australian traders for such
a long run of years. Nicholson’s business
is chiefly in luxury lines, and as the greater
portion is t.-p. and liabilities are heavy the
co. is faced with the necessity of securing
itself against the inevitable lean times. It
is impossible to see from the accounts what,
if anything, has been done apart from the
amount visibly accumulated. There are
places where much might be hidden. No
indication is given as to the provisions made
for contingencies, although regularly a sum
is put aside for depreciation and taxation.
The respective amounts are unspecified ; but*
for the six months ended March 31 the
total allocation under this heading was
£5770, as against £3613 at the previous
March.
Balance-sheet movements were unimpor-
tant :
Mar.,’24. Mar.,’2s. Mar.,’26. Mar.,’27.
Paid capital. . £192,820 £192,820 £219,114 £219,114
Mortgage .. 28,500 28,500 105,000 105,000
Overdraft . . 14,629 43,499 604 1.477
Other liabilities 130,436 152,548 171,998 169,627
Stocks, hire
a g reements,
book debts 279,504 325,518 318,439 315,853
Plant, etc. .. 5,054 5,056 5,129 3,339
Freeholds .. 94,199 94,199 192,911 200;751
Sundry assets 12,128 22,873 16,849 15,092
Thus far the co. has not taken up head-
quarters in the property in the heart of
Sydney’s shopping centre purchased from
Hordern Bros, more than a year ago. The
co. sold, at the time, two blocks which it


HOME AGAIN!
“The Duke and Duchess of York have been, enthusiastically welcomed home and have resumed housekeeping.”— Cable.


Prices Are Unsteady.
Should I Sell ?
The
“ Wild Cat’ Monthly”
WILL HELP YOU TO DECIDE.
JULY NUMBER ON SALE.
SINGLE COPY, 2/-
PER ANNUM, 22/6.
Principal Newsagents,
or
“The Bulletin” Offices,
Sydney or Melbourne.
We stock 4- GF -|- Malleable Fittings to suit
every requirement, and as there are over 7500
varieties to choose from, we can accommodate any
trade. For water, steam or gas. Will not split or
crack, and are correct in every detail. Obtainable
f lOlll William Adams & Co., Ltd., Sole Agents,
Sydney, Newcastle, Melbourne, Brisbane, Adelaide,
Perth.—A DVT.
* * * *
Apart from its long-life qualities, Pioneer Wood
Pipe stands supreme as the most practical and
economical conduit for almost every class of water
system. It costs little to maintain, as it does not
rust, corrode nor tuberculate. Its smooth inner bore
actually increases in efficiency the more it is in use.
Ligh:, easily handled, and' quickly and cheaply
transported and installed, Pioneer Wood Pipe is
unequalled where permanency and efficiency are most
required. Write for particulars. The Australian
Wood Pipe Co., Ltd., Burns Bay Road, Lane Cove
N.S.W. (Ferry to Figtree) ; and at Footscray, Vie!
—-Advt.
WIRE ROPES—AUSTRALIAN MADE—Prices and
particulars from Bullivants’ Australian Co. Ltd
331-333 Kent Street, Sydney; B. K. Morton Pro-
prietary, Ltd., 85 Clarence Street, Svdney ■ J R
Reid and Sons, 401-403 Kent Street, Sydney, Success-
fully used all over the Commonwealth for all pur-
poses. —Advt. 1
* * * *
Inventors.— Have you an idea worth patenting?
Griffith & Hassel, Patent Attorney, 77 Castlereagh
Street, Sydney, obtain Commonwealth and foreign
patents.— Advt.
IDEAS—Commonwealth and Foreign Patents
obtained. Codmson & Co., JB3 Collins St’vet Mel-
bourne. and Adelaide. Thirtv veins’ practice Write
us for Inventors’ Guide.— Advt'
* * * *
» y° u are a producer of ores, mattes, metals and
metalliferous residues of any kind, Burkard and
Co., Ltd., 26-30 Bridge Street, Sydney, are buvers
for U.K., Continent of Europe and U.S.A. smelters
and will pay you the highest prices and give you
best terms. Advances made against ore—and market
information, prices, assays at your disposal. Send
samples and particulars.— Advt.
Leplastriers’ Concrete Mixers—of all necessary
sizes—are designed and manufactured in Australia bv
expert engineers. Apply Goldsbrough House, Sydney
Col.ms House, Melbourne; IG4 Edward Street Brisl
bane; or 21 Morphett Street, Adelaide.—Advt
ThePatific Cable Board
REST ROUTE TO -GREAT BRITAIN,
CANADA. NEW ZEALAND, etc.
TARIFF PER WORD “VIA PACIFIC.”
Ordi- Daily Daily Letter
nary. Deferred. Telegram.
GREAT ) 2/- 1/- 9d. (minimum
BRITAIN { 15/-, 20 words)
Week-end7id.(minimumchargel2/6, 20 words)
FRANCE 2/7 l/3j Nil
HOLLAND A
l 2/6
BELGIUM
GERMANY
SWITZERLAND
CANADA ..
1/3
1/2 9Jd.
Nil
7d. (minimum
_ , , . 11/3. 20 words)
Week-end sjd. (minimum charge 9/7,2owords)
U.S.A.
2/4 to
2/8
Nil
NEW
ZEALAND.
4jd.
1/2 to
2/4
\ N.Z. Night Letter
I Rate minimum charge
1 3/- for 20 words and
I 2d. per word thereafter
THE PACIFIC CABLE BOARD,
261 Ceorge Street, and 55 Liverpool Street.
Sydney.
Tel. City 1346 and 87784.
Collins House, Collins Street. Melbourne.
Jei. Centra) 2084.
Queensland
Insurance Co.
Ltd.
Head Office:
Pitt & Bridge Streets,
Sydney.
The Largest
Australian Company
transacting
Fire, Marine, Personal
Accident and Sickness,
Burglary, Live Stock,
Public Risk, Boiler Ex-
plosion, Workers’ Com-
pensation, etc., etc.
YG
pOORD &,S on
FINEST DRY GIN
8l OLD TOM
ĥ
Swift & Company Ltd.. Australasian Airents. 26 30 Clarence St.,
Sydney „
WHO IS THE EXECUTOR OF YOUR WILL?
TF you have appointed a friend, have you considered that he may die soon after you, and your
Estate may pass into the control of sor”''o T io wlv vo'u would never have trusted? That he
may maladminister the Funds? Or your Estate may suffer losses through his neglect or inexperience?
THESE risks can be guarded against bv appointing as your executor
PERPETUAL TRUSTEE COMPANY (LIMITED)
OF 33-39 HUNTER STREET, SYDNEY,
■which offers undoubted security, combined with Expert Administration.
„ , CAPITAL AND RESERVES.
Subscribed Capital .. .. . . .. .. £1.000,000
Uncalled Capital .. .. .. .. .. 825,000
Perpetual Deposit with Government .. .. . 2o!000
RESERVE FUND . 105,000
Trust Funds Now Under the Company’s Control Exceed £28,000,000
Write or Call for Booklet. Managing Director: R. Copland Lethbridge.
Manager: H. V. Douglass.
owned in Property, which
includes the co.’s big store at Camperdown,
was in at a few thousands more than at
the previous March. The chief item is in
the books as “stock, goods afloat, and hire
agreements under contract, less unearned
interest and insurance, £303,479” —an un-
tidy heap which, if it conveys nothing to
trade rivals, incidentally obscures the posi-
tion for shareholders. The 10 p.c. has been
uninterrupted since 1917. The co. passed
through the post-war depression without a
discernible tremor. Because it emerged sat-
isfactorily through that brief period of
slump, it is given credit for being solidly
bas d. Sales have been infrequent of late,
the last being at 265. 3d.
•k 5 k 5k $
Land, Properties and Investments,
Ltd., has been formed to carry on the busi-
ness of buyers and sellers of land and pro-
perty and as an investment trust and finance
co. Nominal capital is £500,000 in £1
shares; 100,000 are being offered. The.
immediate proposal is the handling of a pro-
perty for which the co. is to pay £70,000 and
a three-years’ option of 30,000 shares at par.
This land is near Narrabeen, within an hour
of Sydney, and subdivision, probably helped
by a country club, is proposed. The dub
proposition sounds good; Sydney is big
enough to carry one. Success without seems
doubtful. The co.—it has already gone to allot-
ment on a minimum subscription of 25,000
shares—has a good board and influential con-
nections, and the value of these in such a
venture is undoubted. As to the ultimate
objective of an underwriting, investment
trust and finance co.. this appears to depend
on the co.’s success with its land deal.
* * * *
Under the agreement which W. H. Cor-
bould negotiated in London Russo-Asiatic
Consolidated, Ltd., has already paid Mt. Isa
for 100,000 shares at par. A further 100,000
are to be paid for within 12 months and
350,000 within 18 months. When Isa has
received the full £550,000 for a correspond-
ing number of £1 shares Russo-Asiatic is to
receive 50,000 £1 shares by way of under-
writing commission. Russo-Asiatic is reli-
ably credited with having also purchased
100,000 shares in the open market. This m
a measure confirms the statement made by
The Bulletin some time ago that Isa’s
potentialities were generally better known
overseas than in Australia.
Although Russo-Asiatic had a sad experi-
ence with its varied Russian interests at the
hands of the Soviet Government, its name
is so good in London and New York and
its technical record so bright that it would
experience little difficulty in financing two
or three Mt. Isas if they were available.
It is known that in the present deal very
powerful Continental houses are participat-
ing. Corbould’s trouble in London was not
“Who can I persuade to interest themselves
in this proposal?” but “Who are the people
possessing first of all the necessary technical
skill to operate Mt. Isa successfully and
who command sufficient cash to bring it to
the producing stage?” There were quite a
number of aspirants with the necessary
cash ; tnere were others possessing both
cash and technical skill. Russo-Asiatic was
included in the latter category. That it
should decide boldly to go in and in effect
carry out the terms of an option in many
respects similar to the one which Anglo-
American Corporation of South Africa
turned down was at the outset a bit sur-
prising. Carl Davis, who was the man that
had the real say, after the examination
staff under Titcomb and Geppert had com-
pleted its work, made no secret of the fact
that in his opinion Isa is a great property;
but its engineers could not see enough in it
under existing conditions. The “Wild Cat”
understands, however, that some of the con-
ditions existing when Davis gave his deci-
sion are likely to be modified as a result of
discussions in London with William McCor-
mack, Premier of Queensland. The Govern-
ment is building the railway to Isa and the
Isa traffic is of importance to one of Queens-
land's non-paying railway sections. Under
the existing railway classification, which
is unscientific, no mine could operate suc-
cessfully for long in the Northern State.
Almost every mine negotiates its own special
rates. Apparently Mt. Isa came to no under-
standing with the Government when the
Railway Rill was put through, and Premier
McCormack in London has apparently given
satisfactory assurances that sensible rates
will be charged. Russo-Asiatic is therefore
to this extent viewing Mt. Isa under im-
proved economic conditions.
* * * *
One or two items of interest in the report
on Mt. Morgan made recently by American
copper experts did not appear in the pre-
liminary digest issued to the public. The first
is that Queensland’s lavish holiday system
reduces the year to 265 working days, and
that, of course, means a shocking waste of
capital sunk in plant and development. In-
stability of the labor situation is quoted as
another drawback ; and in that respect things
are getting no better. One union is. in fact,
claiming—but this is in N. S. Wales —that
an award or an agreement, though made for
a fixed period, may be varied at any time
on the application of one of the parties.
* *k * *
Newnes (N.S.W.) to-day is a deserted
town. Saloons and shops are shuttered. The
small population consists chiefly of women
and children, the men working elsewhere,
and finding it cheaper to keep their families
down in the Wolgan Valley than to send
them to the city. For one thing rent is no-
thing or thereabouts in Wolgan. Regularly
the Department allows Newnes to keep quiet
for another year; but with new sliale-treat-
ment processes pressing on, a change will
come presently.
s{* *k SJ» V
The New Chines Co. has spent £3500 open-
ing up three lodes, five miles from Clunes
(Vic.). No. 1 shaft, 142 ft., has got “pay-
able gold” from a reef averaging 4ft. No. 2
shaft, 52ft., has 15 inches of stone carry-
ing gold. No. 3 has been opened on the sur-
face for 186 ft. in length, and a shaft has
reached 80ft. with from 6 to 20 inches of
stone on the bottom carrying payable gold.
A five-head battery just started is to turn
the “payable” gold into the stuff the banks
buy. Retween 1857 and ISBIII Clunes (Vic.)
quartz mines produced 1,204,0000 z. of gold
worth nearly £5,000,000 from six reefs
worked more or less for a length of two
miles, and no quartz worth less than half
an ounce was ever crushed, because it was
too poor. Clunes Quartz Co. paid £500,000
in dividends, and New North Clunes £750,000.
There were only four lOin. pumps on the
field, and the water won in the end.
sk ❖ sfc
London controllers of North White
Feather (W.A.) are reported to have sold
130,000 reserve shares to a “strong finan-
cial group” and to have in hand “a scheme
of amalgamation and capital reorganisation.”
The co. has been twice reconstructed already,
but neither operation brought in much cash.
Statements that the mine had possibilities
and that a Government official’s report was
favorable were circulated in London recently,
and probably induced the financial group
mentioned to come in. A Bulletin man
who knows the show advises that the pro-
blem ahead of these people is how to get out
without loss.
**•■!:*
Great Boulder’s abandoned Norseman side-
show, the 0.K., is being worked with success
by a party of miners. During the five
years Boulder had the show a small tonnage
was extracted monthly and railed for treat-
ment, but profits were poor when there were
any at all. Finally the reef pinched and
became unprofitable. The shoot now worked
is said to be a new one and more than a
flash in the pan.
•!" •!> -i* -I”
Tabba Tabba Tin Mines, Ltd., floated in
London by Corbould to acquire a tin deposit
near Port Hedland (W.A.) from Jock Thom-
son and others, has been registered in Perth.
The co. has a nominal capital of £30,000 in
£1 shares and Corbould and friends have sub-
scribed £6OOO working capital to make a
start.
5k sk sk sj:
Boulder Perseverance’s profit for the first
quarter of this year was more than offset by
expenditure on new equipment and develop-
ment. As general manager Williams states
there is still much to do .and considerable
expenditure to be incurred under this head-
ing, it will probably be some time before
another div. is paid. Formerly about 60 p.c.
of the ore was mined by the co. and 40 p.c.
by the tributors. but present proportions are
about 70 and 30. The yield is steadily fall-
ing on account of the rich blocks of ore on
which the tributors worked in the past
having been exhausted.
* * !*: *
Allegedly in disgust at the “unsympathetic”
attitude of the Federal Government towards
the Westralian gold industry, Oroya Links
has shut down its Ivalgoorlie mines. Other
cos. operating on that field threaten to follow
suit. If they do and applications are called
for tributes, there will be, as in the case of
Perseverance and Boulder, a rush for blocks.
Old stories are being re-told of covered-up
pockets and veins, and miners in the know
are said to be praying to be allowed in.
* * * %
“Peter”: Not being able to make ends
meet otherwise, Sons of Gwalia will be
worked as a salvage proposition in future,
which means that operations are to be con-
fined to stoping payable ore. Since its
discovery the Gwalia has been a mine in
every sense of the term, but in present
conditions its values cannot be made to
pay, although the best possible has been
done by the management. Even Kingsley
Thomas said it was worked as a mine should
be. Very few will be pleased over the
depressing news. Even prospective tribu-
tors have nothing to be joyful over, as the
bunches of high-grade stuff, not to mention
telluride, so dear to the fossieker’s heart,
will not reward the Gwalia tributor as it
does on the Ivalgoorlie Golden Mile.
5k :k ik #
While in the West recently Glastonbury,
chairman of Monte Carlo, “straightened up
things” and arranged for a loan of 10 p.c. to
pay something off the purchase price of the
Glenelg Queen, on which the co. holds an
option. Glastonbury told the papers over
there that the Queen was the most promising
show that had come under the notice of the
gold-mining world in recent years. This
opinion, however, is difficult to reconcile with
the action of Jack McDermott, who held an
option on the property and abandoned it.
*!• *!• $
“Old Warden” : C. J. Levien, who controls
Guinea Gold on the Bulolo, has issued an
interesting statement as to the work done
by the co.’s aeroplane. He reckons that its
carrying power is equal to a corps of 250
natives. That number of “boys,” costing the
employer £lO each, at a conservative esti-
mate, would be paid and would eat at the
rate of £1 a head per week. They would
carry a load of 401 b. and take a week to
do it—the estimates are ‘my own. The ’plane,
therefore, is doing work which would other-
wise have demanded an initial outlay of
£2500 and a maintenance cost of £250 per
week, to say nothing of time values. Evidently
Guinea Gold’s gadget is earning its oats and
the co. itself deserves a cheer for its enter-
prise.
❖ He i|« He
Sydney-run Twyford Malayan has issued
particulars of yet another option—in Perak.
The area is 200 acres, five miles from Kam-
pnr. Field-engineer G. J. Rowe reports that
00 bores have given an average of lOfoz.
per c.y., the average depth being 60 feet,
and total ground 20 million c.y. Check-
boring should now be in progress. There
has been no excitement over the co.’s shares
of late, and the announcement of the new;
option didn’t set the market afire.
S[! Si! S|! S(C
Sumatra Tin Concessions, an Adelaide pro-
specting show with F.M.S. registration, has
been heard from again. Its first venture in
Sumatra lapsed, owing to trouble over the
concessions and what was styled an unsatis-
factory report from T. Willan, of Alluvial
Tin’s field staff. Now the co. announces an
option over 25,000 acres near Pamengbang,
Sumatra, for payments of £l5O and £350
cash, plus 20,000 f.-p. shares in the co. on
proof being given that payable tin exists on
the property. It seems very little cash to put
down for an option on such a big acreage,
and the balance of the report is somewhat
nebulous. The co., with its former experi-
ence in mind, will no doubt walk warily in
regard to its title, recalling the Dutch Gov-
ernment’s notorious unwillingness to grant
titles except to Hollanders.
* * * *
A note from London :
Prof. KovalofT has thrown gloom among share-
holders in S’African platinum mines by his state-
ment that the platinum output of Russia has jumped
to IOO.OOOoz. p.a. He declares that dredges lately
installed can produce at a figure no other country
can touch, and points to the recent fall in the price
as the writing on the wall. The white metal is now
only £l4 10s to £l5 per oz., and even those quota-
tions are nominal. Several platinum shows have
closed down in Africa, but osmiridium production
there is keeping well up to the 500 oz. mark per
month. The diggers in Tasmania seem to be in
for a roug'h spin; there is very little demand for
their metal in London and N. York.
* * * *
Various diggers having asked this paper’s
Service Department for information about
the New Guinea goldfields, the New Guinea
Government office in Sydney lias been good
enough to prepare for The Bulletin the fol-
lowing summary:—
Salamoa, the nearest coastal point, is 50 miles from
Edie Creek and the journey necessitates travel for
seven days. An aeroplane sendee between Lae (on
the coast near Salamoa) and the goldfields has been
established by the Guinea Gold Company. One
aeroplane is doing two trips daily carrying 6001 b.
of freight or three passengers. Each journey occupies
approximately one hour. A similar service will
shortly be established by the Bulolo Goldfield Aero-
plane Services, Ltd. No particulars as to charges
for fares and freight are available.
The nearest port of entry for Customs and Quaran-
tine purposes is Rabaul, about 500 miles from Sala-
moa ; fares between the two places are: Europeans,
£4; natives, £l.
Persons desirous of proceeding to the goldfields
must obtain a permit to enable them to leave Aus-
tralia. Such permits are issued to Rabaul only and
are subject to such conditions as the Administrator
may impose for proceeding thence to the goldfield
area, which may be entered only by persons in
possession of a permit from the Administrator.
Before the Administrator will issue a permit he
requires to be satisfied that the applicant has made
the necessary arrangements for transport from
Salamoa to the field and that he has sufficient financial
backing to enable him to operate there. Applicants
for permits are required to pass a medical examina-
tion and undergo anti-typhoid inoculation. They
may also be required to deposit with the Admini-
strator £5O, which is forfeitable for any breach of
the conditions imposed by the Administrator.
Native foods are not purchasable on the field.
The fees required to be paid to obtain native laborers
average from £l5 to £2O a native. Natives are
difficult to obtain unless personally recruited by the
miners themselves, and are not available at Rabaul
or Salamoa. The best recruiting areas are the Mark-
ham and Sepik Rivers. The Markham River is about
30 miles from the goldfield and the Sepik about 400
miles. Prospectors should be prepared for a delay
of at least six weeks to enable them to obtain the
necessary laborers.
The following particulars of average costs, etc., on
Edie Creek have been furnished by the Warden:
Load of cargo costs, £1 10s.; pound of rice, 9d.;
boy’s daily rations only, Is. lid.; boy’s wages,
inclusive of education tax, weekly issues and rations,
per week, £1; European’s rations per week, £4;
cost to ship gold from Salamoa to Sydney, per oz.,
Is. Bd. ; royalty on gold per oz., 21d. ; average nett
return of gold, per oz., £2 ; average gross return of
gold, per oz., £2 4s. 6d. ; average working time per
month, 23 days; average number of boys required
for one team, 8; number of boys required to keep
above supplied with stores, etc., 16; average trip to
Salamoa and back, three weeks.
A Miner’s Right may be issued for any period not
exceeding ten years, on payment of £1 for each
year it is in force. A claim under a Miner’s Right
must not be more than 200 ft. long and not more than
100 ft. wide. A .goldmining lease not exceeding 50
acres may be granted for 21 years on, payment of
yearly rental of £1 per acre. It is renewable for
a further 21 years on such conditions as may be
in force at the time of renewal. A Dredging or
Sluicing Lease not exceeding 240 acres may be
granted for 21 years. The rent for the first year
is 2s. 6d. per acre, and for each subsequent year
ss. per acre. A royalty of 1 p.c. is payable on all
gold won.
It would be most inadvisable for a person to pro-
ceed to New Guinea for the purpose of mining
unless in possession of between £5OO and £lOOO.
The locality of the present find is very difficult of
access and the conditions generally are altogether
adverse to miners with small means.
The authorities of the Territory advise that the
present find is not sufficient to supply suitable ground
for a large number of men, and that it would be
necessary for newcomers on the field to prospect
new country.


SHARING me BIG PROFITS
“I should have liked to be in that,’’ people say when they hear oi the profits resulting
from some big deal.
A net profit of £130,000 (less taxation) is estimated from the disposal of the Elanora
Heights Estate, and other profitable operations will follow.
The opportunity to share in these profits is offered by LAND, PROPERTIES
& INVESTMENTS, LTD., in an issue to the public of 100,000 £1 shares.
HERE IS THE SECURITY
1 The Board of Directors.
W. A. FREEMAN, . Challis House, Martin Place, Sydney.
JAMES CROCKETT, 379 Kent Street, Sydney. Chairman of James Crockett
and Co., Ltd.
COL. ERIC CAMPBELL, D. 5.0., Sydney Morning Herald Buildings, Sydney.
of Messrs. Campbell & Campbell .Solicitors.
COL. T. A. J. PLAYFAIR, D. 5.0., 0.8. E., V.D., Argyle Street, Sydney.
Chairman of Directors Thomas Playfair, Ltd.
2. THE VALUE OF THE PROPERTY.
On the most conservative valuation—that of Messrs. Stanton & Sons—the value of the property for disposal at public auction
is an average of £2/7/6 per foot, and the estimated selling frontage is 100,000 feet.
Mr. H. W. Jackson, another property expert, of 92b Pitt Street, and also of Newport and Mona Vale, values the property for
disposal on terms at an average of £3/2/6 per foot.
Views of Elanora Estate and interesting letter-
press are contained in the valuable brochure
issued by the Company. Send this, with your
address, for a copy and a prospectus.
The Secretary,
Land, Properties & Investments, Ltd.
350 George Street, Sydney.
Please forward to the address below copy of your
brochure and prospectus.
With the establishment of A COUNTRY CLUB,
as is intended, but in the finances of which the money put into Land, Properties & Investments, Ltd., by shareholders will be
IN NO WAY COMMITTED, the profits must be substantially greater in view of the immense effect it must have upon the value ot
CStdtC
The Directors therefore consider that they may conservatively estimate the profit, after due allowance for cost of roads, cost
of property, cost of disposal through a selling agency and preliminary and other expenses at
£130,000
■ - -
On this basis, each *
~£so~
Invested will be worth
~irnr
and will still share in the profits resulting from subsequent operationa
ABRIDGED PROSPECTUS
LAND, PROPERTIES AND INVESTMENTS, LTD.
Capital: £500,000, Divided into 500,000 shares of £1 each
Issue at par of 100,000 shares of £l each payable as follows:
2/6 per share on application.
5/- per share on allotment.
2/6 per share one month after allotment.
The balance in calls of 2/6 per share at intervals of not less than one month as required.
I , _ ••••'. ' ' ' *
LAND, PROPERTIES & INVESTMENTS, LTD., has been formed for the purpose of carrying on the business of buyers and
sellers of land and property, and as an Investment, Trust and Finance company. The Company is in a position to secure remunerative
business, and the present time is considered favorable for the commencement of operations. A substantial revenue is anticipated
from the business immediately to hand.
Shareholders in the Company will have the opportunity of participating in the advantages usually only available to the
professional operator.
It will be the policy of the board to conduct the business on economical lines, so that the management and administrate e
expenses may be kept at the lowest level consistent with efficiency.


Round Casserole, capacity 1J pints, 54/'
Entree Dish, both halves of which can be
used as separate dishes, lOin. size, 75/-
From the
FAIRFAX”
Table Service
Gracious simplicity of line endows this
service with a rich dignity. Each
piece is of excellent quality, having a
hard, white metal base plated with an
extra heavy deposit of silver. Jam,
butter and muffin dishes, cruets, vege-
table dishes, sauce boats, salvers,
bread platters, egg cruets, etc., may
be had to match.
Fairfax & Roberts, Ltd.,
The Oldest Jewellery House in Sydney,
23 and 25 HUNTER STREET.
PLAIN FIGURES. CASH ONLY.
€mnons motel
©RISBANE
h
ce>nfr>e> of
Queens!ands
( Di<sfn Puished
Social Life.
n -
Magnificent Ballroom, Palm
Court, and Lounges at the
disposal of guests and their
friends at all times.
Suites de Luxe—double and single Bedrooms, with Bath-
rooms attached. Hot and cold running water and Electric
Fans in every Bedroom, together with every modern con-
venience for the comfort of guests.
TELEGRAMS A CABLES— LENNONS, BRISBANE.
TELEPHONE CENT. 5780 (lO LINES).
PERSONAL
ITEMS
PROFESSOR R. S. WALLACE, President
of the Melbourne University Profes-
sorial Board and Commonwealth Film
Censor, who has been appointed Vice-
Chancellor of the Sydney University.
The appointment of Justice Leo Cussen
as a Royal Commissioner to preside at the
ceremonies preliminary to the opening of
Vic. Parliament in the Spring-street build-
ing was received with gratification by mem-
bers of both Houses. His Honor was called
to the Bar of both Houses several years
ago to receive their thanks for consolidating
the statutes, and it looks as if lie will soon
be entitled to a similar honor for work he
did last year of the same kind. A native
of the State, he was a civil engineer before
he took to law.
Australia’s oldest clergyman, the Rev. S.
Hungerford, closed his long chapter early
this week; had lie lived until August 12 he
would have been a well-certified 102. It is 73
years since he was givfen charge of the Armi-
dale (N.S.W.) parish, the boundaries of
which then embraced Tenterfield, Inverell.
Bendemeer and the Dorrigo, and 30 since he
retired from regular parochial work and
settled at Cremorne. Right to the end of his
days the venerable old man took a keen,
intelligent interest in church and public
affairs. As his memories went back to Sam
Marsdon they embraced practically the whole
stretch of Ch'urch of England history in
Australia.
Henry Corser, who died in Brisbane last
weea at 74. was a member of a family deep-
rooted in Queensland law and trade. lie
came from England with his father 60 years
ago, and when he grew up joined his dad, a
Maryborough solicitor; he practised in the
northern town for more than 50 years. The
family was interested in sugar-growing and
sheep; and Henry’s brother Edward suc-
ceeded Andrew Fisher as M.H.R. for Wide
Bay. Henry lost liis wife and eldest son
when the Quetta struck a rock on the N.Q.
coast in 1890. He was on the ship, but was
rescued after several hours in the water.
The number of practising K.C.’s in South
Aus. has been increased to five by the
appointment of Rupert Ingleby and R. W.
Bennett. Forty years ago Ingleby’s dad was
one of the leading silks of Adelaide; his
daughter lias been admitted to the Bar and
a son is associated with his father’s legal
business. Dick Bennett, the other new
leader, is legal adviser to the Stockowners’,
Graziers’ and other associations. He was
part-owner of King Ingoda when that steed
won the Melbourne Cup.
D. H. Harvey, general manager for Tatt.’s
at Hobart, will smile at a baffled bureaucracy
no more. Starting as a railway clerk in
England Harvey worked his passage to
Maoriland, where he mixed ironmongery with
the publishing of an inconspicuous daily
journal. Meeting George Adams, wdio then
ran Tattersall’s Hotel in Sydeny, he helped
that philanthropist with clandestine sweeps.
The law descended on the pair and they went
to Brisbane. Harvey faded out, but was soon
needed again by Adams, who had retired to
the Speck and was in difficulties owing to the
post-office having outlawed his business.
Harvey’s talent for pulling the leg of con-
stituted authority triumphed over all
obstacles, and the enterprise became one of
the islet’s most important industries. Though
Harvey had a great interest in the turf he
was seldom seen on a racecourse.
James Trace, of Upper Yarraman, who
celebrated his 90th birthday recently, smiles
when people say hard things about the Ban-
analand climate. Tiring of driving growlers
about London streets, Trace migrated in
1874 in the Gauntlet, and set out from
Dalby alongside a bullock team which took
him to the Warrego. There he grew wool,
shifting afterwards to the more civilised
Logan. Nowadays he takes his ease in per-
fect health, more or less surrounded by nine
children, 70 grandchildren and 29 great-
grandchildren.
Captain Hart, after 46 years of life on
the ocean wave, will step off the bridge ot
the Corinthic at the end of next voyage. The
cap’n has had 38 years with the White
Star line, 18 of which were spent in com-
mand of the Corinthic, mostly on the London-
Wellington run, and in his 44 voyages he
has covered over a million miles.
Following local precedent, ex-Mayor A. A.
Simpson, of Adelaide, has given a throne to
the Royal Geographical Society, of which lie
is president. It is an all-Australian affair,
the cunningly-carved woodwork being made
of the rare golden variety of Tasmanian
blackwood, upholstered with garter-blue Aus-
tralian leather.
Everybody who owns a bungalow on
Sydney’s North Shore line owes something
to James George Edwards. He was an estate-
agent, but his enthusiasm was not only a
matter of £ s. d. Edwards was a leader of
the agitation for the construction of the
North Shore line, and built the first suburban
habitation at Killara. He was a founder of
hospitals, golf clubs and other amenities, and
had the satisfaction of knowing, before lie
died last week at the age of 84, that the hills
lie had found as bushland are settled from the
harbor-side to Hornsby.
Francis Graham’s death at Malvern (Yic.)
has snapped a link with. early Melbourne
and removed a great cricket and racing
enthusiast. His dad. James Graham, who
was in Vic. Dreary House from ‘66 to ’B6.
came to the Cabbage Garden in ’39, when it
was known as the Port Phillip district and
a dependency of N.S.W.; he and La Trobe
arrived about the same time. Francis Gra-
Chief-Secretary TASSIE, of South Aus.,
who greatly assisted his State at the
recent Financial Conference in Mel-
bourne.
ham saw the light in ’5l, the year Vic.
separated from N.S.W. The Grahams then
lived in a cottage in Russell-street, where
the King’s Theatre now stands. A lump
of city property in the locality is still held
by the family 'as well as broad acres near
Coleraine in the Western District.
Andy Lysaght, the Ma State’s latest
Attorney-General, believes in paying liis way,
even though he is a Minister. Andy doesn’t
use the car allotted to him, preferring to
take a taxi and dip his hand in his own
pocket. But unless he’s in a hurry trains
and trams serve his purpose. The tall
lawyer refused to accept the last increase in
members’ salaries. He sticks to his Labor
principles, too; his home at Campbelltown
was built by day labor.
A wave of regret passed over Melb. when
it became known that Peter Lalor, senior
medical officer at Sunbury Mental Hospital,
and grandson of tne chieftain of the Eureka
revolt of ’54, was no more. The Lalors
had a gift for making friends; little Captain
Lalor, who died on the first day at Gallipoli
when leading his men, is affectionately re-
membered in Westralia. After going through
Xavier Col., Ivew, Melb. Uni. and St. Vin-
cent’s Hospital, Peter was in private prac-
tice for a while; then, ten years ago, he
joined the mental hospital staff. Occasionally
he was in command at Sunbury. His grand-
dad and namesake was a Minister twice
under Berry between ’75 and ’BO and Assem-
bly Speaker from ’BO to ’B7.
W. F. Taylor, one of Queensland’s best-
beloved medicoes, died in Brisbane last week
at 87. Not two years ago the enthusiastic
old man went to America to take a “re-
fresher course” in modern surgery. English
born, Taylor graduated at Queen’s Univer-
sity in Canada, and took medical and sur-
gical degrees in Britain and Paris. His
Australian experience commenced at Hay
(N.S.W.), and he was in charge of Eagle-
hawk (Vic.) Hospital for a time, going to
Queensland in 1870. Thenceforth, with occa-
sional absences in Europe and America to
observe the latest advances in medicine and
surgery, he remained as one of the most
prominent medical men of the State. An
expert in sanitation, he was for many years
Medical Officer of Health for Brisbane, and
he sat in the Leg. Council destroyed by
Theodore.
Vic. may never have overworked H. G. W.
Neale, sec. to its Agency-General in London,
who died last week, but it certainly never
overpaid him during the 42 years he served
it. Latterly he received £650 a year. Neale
knew everybody worth knowing and the Vic.
tripper, whether official or unofficial, found
him a warm-liearted friend. Six years ago
the Lawson Government woke up to the fact
that Neale had never seen the State and
brought him in to have a look at it.
Wright, the accountant, who will succeed
him. also had a peep at Vic. just before the
war. He was an exchange officer, doing
some work in the Treasury, Melb., while
1 itt, now Under-Treasurer, relieved him in
London.
Dead in Bananaland, Arthur O’Connor,
whose grandfather carried a pike in 179 S and
finished up as a general in the French army.
Born at Cork, O’Connor left there in 1862 in
the ship Waiutu, being one of a bunch of
immigrants brought out by Bishop Quinn of
Brisbane. His first experience was as a
carrier as far out as the Condamine, but
after eight years he took up land on Buaraba
Creek. There lie stayed till the end came at
86.
A family vault in Melbourne general
cemetery was opened last week to receive
Stuart Rrunton, flour-miller and racing man,
who was a victim of pneumonia. The mills
which he managed were established by his
late dad 60 years ago, a little before Stuart’s
hirth. Politics did not attract the son as
they did his sire, who was in the House of
Landlords in Melbourne from 1890 to 1904.
Stuart married a daughter of Strong, a
former Mayor of Melbourne, and sister of
a Collins-street surgeon.
Bob Solly, who has got Labor’s nomina-
tion for the chairmanship of committees of
Vic. Assembly, lias had an uninterrupted
run of 23 years in the House. First lie
was one of the two representatives of rail-
waymen under Irvine’s separate representa-
tion system ; then lie captured and held the
Carlton electorate. . The only plums that
have fallen his way so far have been a seat
on the Railway Committee and a trustee-
ship of the Exhibition building. By decid-
ing to run Solly for the minor chair Labor
sidestepped the Speakership and kept the
two Railway Committee jobs dangling.
The birdmen are bulking big in the
world’s eye. Carl Lindbergh, the American,
flew from New York to Paris, 3350 miles,
in 33i hours. Two fellow . countrymen,
Chamberlin and Levine, were hard on his
heels with a hop of 4000 miles from America
to near Berlin in 46 hours 25 minutes.
They were followed by Byrd, of the U.S.
army, whose flight of 43 hours 23 minutes
(it is estimated that 4300 miles were covered)
ended in a forced landing on the French
coast, due to fog. Lieutenants Maitland
and Ilogenberger, of the U.S. navy, capped
this with a. 2500-mile flip from San Fran-
cisco to Honolulu in 25 hours 43 minutes.
Australia has contributed its quota : Kings-
ford Smith and Ulm flew 760(3 miles round
R. A. WRIGHT, Maoriland Minister of
Education.
the continent, starting and finishing at Mas-
cot (Sydney), in a trifle over 10 days, with
12 stops en route. Following them on the
same course, Anderson and Hitchcock have
completed a more leisurely journey..
DAD.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
When busy folk rush to and fro,
Contriving for the common weal;
When patriots their bugles blow
And loyalists affirm their zeal;
A pang of pain I can’t resist,
It leaves me just a little blue
To think of Dad and all he missed
Because of things lie never knew.
A kindly soul, no doubt, was Dad;
Yet, in the light new knowledge brings,
I cannot help but see lie had
A slipshod way of doing things.
Upon his neighbor’s sins and woes
No right of judgment did he claim.
I’ve heard him say, “Ah, well! who knows?
A lot of us might do the same.”
He didn’t do much figuring ere
The offer of liis help was made;
And many he assisted were
Quite undeserving of his aid.
Nor did he realise, I fear,
The sins of which lie should repent:
He’d go to church, say, once a year,
A lamentably rare event.
He was not loyal, I’m afraid,
As loyalty to-day is known;
I can’t recall he ever made
A fuss about the Flag and Throne;
And all the patriotism he
Exhibited for nought would count
Whore strivers for an 0.8. E.
The decorated platform mount.
He made no loud disturbing noise,
He framed no speech, he penned no screed,
When one by one he saw his boys
Go off to serve their country’s need.
He may have thought a lot, old Dad,
But when the time to part had come
He’d only say, “Well, so long, lad,
And don’t forget to write to Mum.”
He had no great respect for law,
Nor said how this and that should be,
And all his life he never saw
The virtues of publicity.
He did not shout for joy, and grief
liis stubborn head could never bend;
lie had a foolish firm belief
All things would straighten in the end.
Dad quaffs no more his favorite brew,
He’s finished now with toil and strife;
And I am glad he never knew
How sadly he mis-spent his life.
Although I think of him with pride,
There isn’t any room for doubt.
It’s just as well the old man died
Ere the reformers found him out.
WESTRALIA.
OSCAR WALTERS.


■
m
■mu
This bearing is now largely
used in Railway Rolling Stock
all over the world.
SHOCK LOADS
are best taken up by
Spherical Roller Bearings
The rolling members in these bearings are so shaped
that the contact areas on the inner as well as the outer
races are larger than those in a ball bearing. This roller
bearing has, therefore, an extraordinarily high carrying
capacity within a relatively small outside diameter.
The guidance of the rollers is absolutely exact, thus no
injurious friction can occur. The co-efficient of friction of
SKP Roller Bearings is, therefore, almost as small as
that of ball bearings.
The Self-alignment is just as complete as in the SKF
Spherical Ball Bearing.
JFjICF* carries a complete stock of Ball and Roller
Roller Bearings of all International Standard Sizes.
SELF ALIGNING
BALL BEARING
FOR NORMAL LOADS
t
SELF ALIGNING ROLLER
BEARING FOR HEAVY
LOADS AND SEVERE DUTY
'THE SKF BALL BEARING CO. LTD.
Melbourne: 595 Bourke Street.
Sydney: 45 King Street.
Adelaide: Wm. Adams & Cp. Ltd.
Brisbane : Wm. Adams & Co. Ltd.
Perth : Unbchaun & Johnstone
(W.A.) Ltd.
Launceston : W. H. Knight &
Peter Bros. Ltd.
Hobart : Charles Davis Ltd.


The Federal Mutual
Insurance Company of Australia, Limited.
FIRE, MARINE AND ACCIDENT.
Licensed to accept liability under Workmen’s Compensation Act 1926.
AGENTS WANTED.
Head Office: 129 Pitt Street, Sydney.
. R- RAWNSLEY MOSS, Managing Director.
Victorian Branch: 360*66 Collins Street, Melbourne.
H. L. CARROLL, Manager.
Queensland Branch: Federal Mutual Chambers, Queen Street, Brisbane.
NORMAN M. MAIR, Manager.
South Australian Branch: 36 Grenfell Street, Adelaide.
__ _ _ E- M. MINOGUE, Manager.
SUPPORT THIS PURELY AUSTRALIAN COMPANY.
R. A. MANZIE, General Manager.
ITjM
BOSTOCKS
Cream
f POLISHES— PRESERVES—PREVENTS CRACKS
BOSTOCK S Shoe Creams are made in all
principal shades, and especially noted for the
New Shade of Bois-de-Rose, Putty, Sunburn
and Oak.
Price 6 d, per tube. Obtainable Everywhere,
ABORIGINALITIES
MADE IN AUSTRALIA
BARNES-LINSEED OIL
“Gougcr”: A “ringer” among Northern
Territory buffalo-hunters is Harry Hardy.
He has shot his thousands. A half-caste
shooter assists him, and a tough old identity
manages the horses and camping-gear; nig-
gers do the skinning and hide-salting. Over
a road Harry himself constructed a Ford
“SOME FELLOW GOT DESIGNS ON THAT GIRL
I THINK.”
is kept busy carting the skins to the nearest
railway siding-—73 miles away. The shoot-
ing last season was in the Alligator River
country, where splendid plains spread out
for 50 miles. Over these in a good season
roam herds of buffaloes, so numerous that
a man could well imagine he was visualising
a picture of America’s earlier days, instead
of an actual scene on Australian soil. The
shooting lasts about four months only in the
year; in the wet season the greater portion of
the plains becomes a series of shallow lakes.
Young buffaloes are never shot, and there
appears n 0 present prospect of the big. herds
being wiped out. The hunters shoot the
beasts from horseback. Naturally most of
them carry the scars of close calls, and
some have collected rough wooden crosses.
Hardy wears a strap which strengthens his
broken ribs. A wounded beast charged him,
and its horns and weight smashed the horse.
As the rider fell he threw himself flat, for in
those treeless spaces the only chance i 3
lying down. The infuriated beast tried to
pin him down with its great horns, and
Hardy was nearly gone when his half-caste
pal galloped up with his trusty gun.
* * ❖ $
“Mundowie”: Most travellers on bush
tracks have trouble with their horses wan-
dering away at night. For that reason
scores of men won't be bothered with horses;
they prefer Matilda, who is always where
she’s put. But I have known many travel-
lers up and down the long trails who never
had to do any horse-hunting in the morning.
They accustomed their nags to a bit of dam-
per at regular hours, and the mokes were
always waiting for the dole when they were
wanted. The bit of damper didn’t cost much,
and saved a lot of tramping and worry. It
also pulled the quadrupeds comfortably over
bad tracks.
* * * *
“Up Top”: When Lord Apsley was on
his tour through wild Australia, he pulled
into Berundie (N.Q.) for a breather. Lar-
rikin. a young gin, was given the job of
cleaning his tan boots and leggings. She
had never seen tan boots before, but was
civilised enough to know that boots were
cleaned with blacking. The startled owner
complained next morning that his boots had
changed color. “What did you do him boots
that feller color for, Larrikin?” asked her
distressed mistress. “Yes’day him feller
boots altogether same harp-caste,” explained
Larrikon. “Him proper feller bkekfeller
boot now!”
# ;|c
“Bihai”: Regarding seabirds (B. 2/6/’27),
I am of opinion that though they rest on
water they sleep on land. I have watched
Hocks of frigate-
birds, sooty-terns
and black-cap gulls
return night after
night to the
same rocks in an
island lagoon. Can-
nae, out towards
the Lachlan Islands,
Papua, stands like
a giant, rocky tooth,
isolated in the seal
Towards evening I
have seen countless
thousands of sea-
birds of every vari-
ety winging their
way there and settl-
ing for the night on
its crown and
ledges.
“Sierra” : There
is no doubt that
albatrosses, cape
hens and molly-
hawks occasionally
sleep on the water.
During the infre-
quent calms in high
southern latitudes,
when little food is
visible in the
smooth sea and
soaring is difficult,
the birds cradle
themselves on the
ocean. In light
winds sleeping alba-
trosses may be ap-
proached quite
closely by sailing-
ships. In stormy-
weather they re-
main on the wing
for days, snapping
up the food ex-
posed by the rough
seas. Frigate-
birds are said bv
seamen to sleep in
tlie air, and any-
one who has seen
them floating in a
calm, tropic sky on
outspread, motion-
less wings can
readily believe it.
Bihai : The statement that the northern
abos.. Torres Straiters and Papuans are dif-
ferent peoples (B. 16/6/’27) is, I believe
wrong as far as the two latter are concerned!
Two English anthropologists, Dr. If addon
and Dr. Seligman, who visited the Torres
Straits and Papua, found the cranial indices
THEY COULDN’T PULL HIS LEG.
THE NEIGHBOR: “Has yer boss got any cattle-pups he wants to get rid of?”
THE NEW CHUM: “Ah, you can’t catch me — y’ mean calves!”
of both peoples to be the same, and the roots
of their languages also. The Western Papuans,
too, are liead-liunters, and in some parts treat
the heads as the Torres Straiters do, according
to “Up North’s” description. In other parts
they leave the neck-skin on, smoke the head
and stuff it with grass. Others again take
the skulls and paint them gaily, fit long
clay noses and wicker handles to them, with
cowrie-shell eyes; then, with a few pebbles
inside, they use the gruesome trophies as
rattles accompany the rhythm of the dance.
“Bad Australian” : There is nothing mythi-
cal about the man with corks on his cady
(B. 9/6/’27). In the ’eighties, and for a
long time after, when sandy blight and small,
black flies were the twin-curses of the coun-
try, every man, woman and child who could
afford it wore a fly-net or veil; those who
couldn’t tied bits of cork to short lengths
of twine or strong thread and suspended
them from the brims of their hats, spaced
about an inch apart. Perforated wattle-
seeds were sometimes used instead of corks.
“T.H.H.”: The summer before last I saw
an old battler in George-street West, Syd-
ney, with the remnants of a cork fringe
dangling from the brim of his old “lid.” This
habit of wearing corks has been ridiculed
by those who have never had to pad the
hoof under a burning s-un, accompanied all
day by a swarm of flies. Fly-nets are not
to be had at every small store outback, and
even were they many a swaggie hasn’t the
price of one. Also the cork device is cooler
and does the job as effectively as the net.
“Jimmy Possum”: At. one time it was
not unusual to see a batch of cork-dangling
dust-shovellers raising a cloud together on
an outback track. But the last cork-swinger
I remember was a mate of mine. The flies
became terribly bad and Plarry came to
work behind a dancing veil of bottle-stoppers
hanging from his dilapidated black felt.
“H.G.8.”: I met a fine old bushman
wearing corks last year at Coober Pedy
opal field (S.A.), where the bush-flies are
very bad. The corks were cut about the
size of peas and hung on threads.
* * * ie
“C. Coral”: There is a popular idea, often
quoted by travellers, that sharks will not
attack colored boys. The Torres Strait
islanders are under no such delusion. They
always maintain a careful watch when out
swimming for fisli or shell. Some time ago
a boy who was fishing for beche-de-mer had
his arm seized by one of the sea-tigers; he
lost the limb but got £5OO compensation.
Another lad coming from below with a good
find of beche-de-mer was suddenly rushed by
a shark, but had the presence of mind to fling
liis catch full in the brute’s-face; it swerved
aside and the boy escaped. When out cray-
fishing the islanders guard against surprise,
for, they say, the cray when caught “makes
signal” and the shark comes to his assist-
ance. It was the risk of attack by sharks
as well as the avoidance of cold that made
the respirator with which no dress is worn
lack popularity amongst Jap divers in the
Strait.
* * * *
“Barmac”: Two years ago, returning to
Perth from what some people thought was
a mine, we stopped one night" at a large
sheep-station. The homestead was situated
in a valley, and on the slope of one hill
were the drafting yards. On the evening of
our visit they contained about 6000 sheep.
As our car swung over the opposite hill,
the reflection of our powerful lights from
a multitude of eyes was one of the most
arresting sights of my experience. The
driver almost had us out of the car with the
suddenness of his halt. We gazed in aston-
ishment at what seemed to be a distant city,
brilliantly lit and set in the wilderness.
* * *
“Two Seas”: I have killed hundreds of
snakes, mostly the red-bellied black fellows,
that never stray far from a creek or river.
If I met one quietly sunning himself on a
rock I fixed him with a hard stare of dis-
approval. If a stick was out of my reach
I still kept my eyes on him as I moved to
grasp it. He invariably remained still so
long as his unwinking eyes stared into mine ;
but let me turn my eyes away and he
vanished instantly. I can’t understand any-
one being afraid to tackle a snake. There
is. practically no risk when a man is armed
with a straight, tough stick and sees his job
before him. The only dangerous snake is the
one that is unseen. If the reptile always
heard or saw a man coming there would be
few cases of snakebite. lie is as anxious
to avoid trouble as we are. In all my experi-
ence of snake-killing I can remember only
one that showed fight, and in that case I
happened to be between him and his resi-
dence.
(Continued on page 27.)
THE HATTER.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Ive got to go down to the town again,
W’ere a cove can git a shave;
Not with a stump-jumpin’ safety fake
That the German Jews in Brummagem make,
But a “Bengali” razor, an* no mistake,
AVith two “L’s” over the wave.
I’ve got to go down to the two-pub town;
I ain’t bin there fer a year.
1 ain’t bin away fer a year er more
AiL me throat’s all dry, an’ me eyes is sore,
An’ me ’air’s too long, an’ me pants is tore;
An’ I wants a pint o’ beer.
An’ w'en I git down ter the two-pub town
I’ll ’unt up Dan Column ;
An’ ’e’ll tell me w’ere ter find Carroty Kate,
An’ we’ll go ter the pieshurs an’ stop up
late —
Ale an’ ’er, an’ ’im an’ a mate—
An’ we’ll dance in Smith’s saloon.
Oh ! it ain’t because I’m sick o’ ther Bush
As I wants ter go ter town ;
The jumbucks is good ernough company
Fer a worn-out hatter ther likes er me,
But ther boss ’as just give me a cheque,
yer see,
An’ I've got ter knock it down.
S.A.
C. H. SOUTER.


xiy
mm
V
mm,
m
mm
m
' mz
mm
rnmmrnm
mm
m
mm
m
mmm
6>/X-y;'y,
m
I i
« I -
m
mtm
mmmmm
20,000 Miles World’s Tour
on "8.5. A." Machines shod with.
U
D
D
D
tm
Two English motor cyclists Messrs. B. H.
Cathrick and J. P. Castley who have under-
taken to Girdle the Earth—on B.S.A. 9.86 h.p.
Dunlop-shod side-car outfits have arrived
in Australia after having completed the
greater portion of their itinerary. The map
herewith depicts their route through Europe,
Asia, India, Malay States, Australia and New
Zealand. These intrepid adventurers have
passed through over 20 countries. This
“Round the World” tour on British-built
machines demonstrates the great reliability and
fitness of the modern motor-cycle for travelling
under the worst of road conditions* Tyre
dependability was essential to the success of
this big undertaking and Dunlop Tyres were
selected for the gruelling task. Their strength
and ability to withstand the roughest of road
and track conditions has materially helped
towards the success of this 20,000 miles tour*
G
CONDON
PAWS
V.EHNA
BUDAPK
SAN SEBASTIAN jr
TK KT
I&£S
ADE
t-Vi (4^LC»A
RCtLONA
OPORTO
NTINOPLE
ACRID
LISBON
*RWAi
c s!-^
Li'PPO
AMASCUS/j
OKRUSAEIN
hi DAO
duzm*!
90MDAY
TA
PENANCi
&INGAPOK
THE ROUTE.
® ATAVIA ?ES!^*OUnABAYA
FREEMANTLE
HENDOZA
VALPARAISO
ADELAIDE
{C°£r
AIRES
UENOS
AUCKLAN^gS^ 0
V \
INVERCARGILL
tLLINGTDN
CHRISTCHURCH
DUNEDIN
You can always depend on “ Dunlop” for mileage,
satisfaction and economy. Fit them —it pays!
* * *
DUNLOP RUBBER CO. OF AUST. LTD.
All States
and N.Z.


r
&
*
SI
f 32
1
v;vx^\\V\v'Av\\\
»
li!i wm
\
a
m
//?
-
uz
l ss
1
':::
jmm.
t
ft
w
m
W? C.wENTWORTH
a
Campion RESERVE
PORT
OWN BOTTLING
1
m
MAS HARDY £ SONS LTE
AIDE.MELBOURNE tSYONtfi
SOUTH AUSTRALIAN WINE ;
«K
saras;
M7l
(7? vis toevatic Pzoneevs'.'
HAFLDY’S WINES OP TINTARA


The Australian Provincial Assurance Association Limited
HEAD OFFICE: 77 KING STREET, SYDNEY.
Directors: Messrs. EDMUND S. W. PAUL (Chairman), ALEX. KING, Dr. E. MORRIS HUMPHERY, Senator J. D. MILLEN, and WM. NORTHAM.
Total Assets exceed. . .. .. £1,724,000
BRANCHES: Melbourne, Brisbane, Adelaide, Perth, Hobart. NEW ZEALAND: Wellington, Auckland, Christchurch, Dunedin.
SOME REASONS WHY YOU SHOULD INSURE WITH THE A.P.A.:
(1) Because in tbe event of total disablement for life all future premiums
will be paid by tbe Association and no deduction made from policy or
bonuses.
(2) Hospital Benefits are given with every Life Policy applicable to public
and private hospitals, varying in amount according to tbe sum assured
and no deduction made from policy or bonuses.
(3) In the event of loss of eye or limb through accident, a quarter of the
sum assured will be paid forthwith, and the premium reduced propor-
tionately.
(4) PERSONAL ACCIDENT and Combined Benefit Policies provide for
almost every contingency.
NO EXTRA PREMIUM IS CHARGED FOR THESE BENEFITS:
Probate, Children’s Education and Finance Policies specialised.
Applications for Agencies invited from men of integrity.
GEO. PEACOCK, F.C.1.5., Secretary.
T. W. RAPLEY, General Manager.
“Moe”: The practice of earth-eating by
dogs in New Guinea is faiidy common; it
is attributable to the cause that produces
the craving amongst natives, the presence
of the hookworm parasite. I have seen a
dog paw at an earth embankment until it
had brought down a little pile of earth;
from this it made a selection of suitable
lumps and devoured them, apparently with
relish. It is possible to cure human beings
of the disease, but dogs seem to be beyond
curative reach.
A' * ♦ . *
“Up North”: Owing mainly to the dying
out of the abos., alligators have multiplied
a hundredfold in the Gulf country. In the
old days Binghi ate thousands of eggs yearly.
HE WAS BLAMELESS.
“They tell me you’re drinking whisky like water, Jock.”
“Aye. But it’s nae faitt o’ mine; Ah canna get it ony stronger.”
Such bucks as are still left in the cattle
country arc now “civilised” and turn dis-
dainful noses at “nigger tucker.” With
multiplied numbers giving them increased
courage, and out of necessity due to the
reduced supply of fish, the 'gators are satis-
fying their hunger upon thirsty stock. Along
many stretches of the rivers the banks are
such that only waterlioles here and there
are available for watering cattle. At these
spots the ’gators play the waiting game,
generally lying just below the water in the
tree-flung shadows. As a beast drinks, iron
jaws close upon him and he is suddenly
jerked into the water. Sometimes a wary
animal secures a foothold before drinking,
and the shock does not at once draw him
in. Then follows a tug-o’-war. If the
’gator’s wrenching jerks cannot drag the
victim down, he lashes round with his tail:
if the blow lands square, the beast’s legs or
iiis back are broken. Horses and cattle,
after seeing one of their number thus drag-
ged to death, become very wary when thirst
compels them to drink. With sniffing nos-
trils, faltering steps and staring eyes they
scout the waterhole before reaching down
to drink, ready at any moment for an instant
wheel in flight. Should a ’gator spring at
such a time his claws generally strike the
bounding beast's rump and bring down steaks
like crimson ribbons,
* * * *
“AdeL”: The great treeless plains of
Central and Nor’-West Queensland are to
be shaded by the plantation of Leichhardt-
trees along the numerous bore drains that
criss-cross them. The Leichhardt or canary
wood ( Surcocephalus cordatus) grows on
the banks of coastal rivers throughout the
North. It is one of the most shady trees
that grow easily inland and thrive well if
planted near water. The fosterer of this
tardy planting movement is a veteran natu-
ralist, journalist and squatter. He might
also encourage the plantation of another tree,
a species of native cork ( Erythrina vcsper-
tilio), a member of a genus widely distri-
buted over the tropics and sub-tropics of the
world. Solitary in habits, it grows to im-
mense size near shallow pans and gullies
on rich or desert countries; it sheds its
leaves in winter, and in spring dresses itself
with thick, dark-green, coral-like leaves so
densely that the sun’s rays cannot penetrate
the foliage. Its readiness to grow anywhere
and its habit of sending numerous limbs
almost horizontally so as to furnish a wider
spread of shade than any other tree found
in the North make it a most valuable addi-
tion to the sun-parched but well-grassed
plains of Queensland.
* * * *
“J. McG.”: On Oct. 10, 1873, a grey
mare on Killanoola station (S.A.) had a
foal on the due date to a blood horse. On
the first day of the following month she had
another foal to some unknown sire. The
mare—a grey—suckled and raised both foals,
which were daily under my eyes till weaning-
time. They were both males. The first-
born was a bright bay; the other a rusty
black, which eventually became grey. It
was impossible to determine whether the
second foal was a half-draught or was .by a
very hairy-legged pony; it grew only to
pony size, but the first foal was normal.
“Saaedi”: I saw
a peewit perched
on a fence opposite
two small windows
in the side of a
house. The blinds
were drawn, -and
the peewit could
see his reflection in
the window closest
to him. Into this
window lie stared
intently, and as I
watched made a
sudden dart at his
reflection. He flut-
tered against the
pane for a while
and then returned
to his perch. After
a few minutes’
spell he attacked
his reflection again,
and during the
three hours I kept
him under observa-
tion he never wear-
ied of this futile
warfare. The only
variation in li i s
method of attack
was that sometimes
he would fly to-
wards one window,
and then suddenly
alter his direction
and make a dash
for the other. But
the manner i n
which his enemy
apparently antici-
pated this ruse obvi-
ously disconcerted
him.
“Peter P.” : Among our wedding presents
were two carved emu eggs which had not
been blown. Some months later a disagree-
able smell spread through the house and
these eggs were found guilty. As meat-ants
were a curse in our new home two holes
were drilled in each egg and the odorous
couple were then placed on a near-by meat-
ants’ nest. It was thought the ants would
clean the eggs out, but on going to the ants’
nest some time later I found them untouched
and the nest untenanted. In the intervening
16 years the ants have never returned. What
is the explanation?
* * * *
“Molokihi” : The custom of using the hand
as a water scoop for drinking purposes is not
confined to the Sepik River, as “Morob” (B.
3/3/’27) seems to imagine, and has sound
reason, as most native customs have. In a
country where it pays a man to keep his
eyes on his neighbor, it would be as unwise
to lie down beside a running stream as it
would be to cover the face with the large
water pots in common use. A New Guinea
native, especially when outside the confines
of his own tribe, invariably stands almost
upright in water or over a drinking-pot, and
scoops up the liquid in rapid palmfuls to his
capacious mouth, while his keen eyes observe
the surrounding country. Where pottery is
unknown, short lengths of green bamboo are
used for water carrying, and these are invari-
ably raised to the lips in drinking, for they do
not obstruct the vision.
* * * *
“Paul C.”: In open country where there
are white-ants a bushman is never beaten
ANOTHER PRODIGAL.
“The style of the woman! Gettin’ er pound er week pension, an’
livin’ up to every penny of it,”
at finding the points of the compass on
cloudy days, or even cloudy nights. The
mounds of white-ants’ nests on tree-trunks
form his compass. These will invariably be
found on the southern side of the trees. The
termites do not like to work in the light or
sunshine, and therefore, in the earlier hours
of the day, they carry-on upon the western
side of the nest, gradually working round to
the east. Thus the mound grows on the
south. In thick scrubby country this rule
does not always apply, but out in the open
it is an unerring guide.
;J- # *
“Mulga Mick”: “AdeL” (B. 26/5/’27)
may be correct as to the uselessness of the
Queensland vermin-proof fence, but there’s
nothing wrong with
th e N.S.W. and
S.A. barrier. While
riding along the
section .between
Yandama station
a n d Cockburn
(S.A.), in October.
’25, I saw an exten-
sive bunny ceme-
tery. The rabbits
were piled behind
each fence-post on
the S.A. side, in
some instances
four feet high.
Feed had been very
scarce in South
Aus. that year,
and bunny and fam-
ily were making for
N.S.W., but they
came to grief at
the fence. I tried
to get a rough tally
of the dead, but
after I had reached
tens of thousands
the wind changed
and I had to shift.
From what I saw
on that occasion
the squatters in
N.S.W. have good
cause to be thank-
ful for the way this
fence has been kept
in repair.
“K.D.S.” : In all ages, primary colors have
been of interest to the inquiring mind of
man. They have been classed as lucky and
unlucky. They figure in scientific research ;
colored rays are a feature of to-day. But
does anybody know why it is _ that when
violet is fashionable for women’s wear we
experience dry seasons? Once the womenfolk
go in completely for all shades of purple,
their menfolk can bet on a drought. I have
noticed this queer double during past visita-
tions of the royal color. Do people instinc-
tively turn to the violet ray in arid seasons/
He * * *
“E.R.R.”: Twenty camels haul a waggon
piled with bales of wool, ypare camels feed
along the way, and two dusty cattle-dogs
see that they do not lag too far behind. The
owner rides alongside his team. He is Gft.
2in., and liis face
is tanned like a
Bondi surf-bather’s,
in spite of his
broad-brimmed hat
with its plaited
girdle. The chest-
nut he bestrides
looks (and is) as
wiry and tough
as its rider. On
they travel till
night falls; then
the dour man sees
to his beasts, pre-
pares and eats his
dinner, and sleeps
beside the waggon.
Daylight finds him
in the saddle, hav-
ing the usual tussle
with Ginger; and
he and the dogs
then round up the
team. Blanket-roll,
tucker-box, billy
and camp-oven are
crammed into the
big green-liide ham-
mock slung under
the waggon. The
fire is kicked out,
an d the waggon
lurches off once
more. From the
time he leaves
home for so m e
wayback station till
he * returns wdtli
wool, he does every-
thing for himself,
and he is 75 though
he looks but 50 —
Bill Jenkins, the
oldest teamster in Bourke.
* * * *
“Mulgo”: The starting of a bush-fire is
often shrouded in mystery. Lightning will
do the trick in dry grass, and a quickly-
moving horse, striking a spark from a flinty
stone with its shoe, has been the culprit
more than once. For that reason a S. Aus.
wheatgrower would not allow his farm-hands
to wear protectors on or to have hobnails in
their boots, and a Queensland cane-planter
always objected strongly to anyone throwing
stones near a dry canefield. “The stone
might hit another stone and strike sparks,’’
he said. Some years ago a farmer planted
a newly-cleared paddock with wheat, and
when the crop was ripe for harvesting a fire
POOR-FELLA JACKY, ANYWAY.
“So you’re starving, eh, Jacky?”
“Yes, my word! An’ plurry pain longa bingy besides —too much
eatem tucker, mine tinkit it.”
broke out and partly destroyed it. Investi-
gation showed that a root had been smoul-
dering underground while the crop was
growing, and the fire had reached the surface
20ft. from where the stump had been burnt
out.
PHYLLIS AND THE LAZY MAN.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
When Phyllis goes to call the kine,
She leaves the rows of scented pine
To follow paths that pause and twist
Through bracken wet with silver mist,
Across the waking hills, and far
Where ringed and spotted orchids are.
The morning air is beaded wine
When Phyllis goes to call the kine!
When Phyllis trails the lagging herd
She woos them with a cunning word;
She lures the lazy brindle up,
Then, tiptoe, tilts a fairy cup
To drain the mead the little folk
Left brewing there when morning broke.
O swift and sweet, by fancy stirred,
Fares Phyllis forth to find the herd !
By little ways that web the hills
The cattle wind; and splendor fills
A waiting world when Phyllis sings,
ller slim hands plaiting fairy rings.
And all the pungent blue-gum tips
Bend down to touch her parted lips.
Highfoot, and singing if she wills.
Wends Phyllis home across the hills!
When lissom Phyl to call the kine
Goes laughing-eyed, what luck is mine!
I hate that poking under boughs
To fetch a lot of silly cows!
And when she’s brought them in I know
She’ll be a sport, and milk them. So
I turn again and sleep till nine
When dainty Phyllis calls the kine!
S.A.
M. R. C.


■ t, «i>
Transport of the Wool
may give trouble. But the way for its sale is
clear of all care for growers if this step is taken:
SEND THE CLIP TO
WINCHCOMBE, CARSON
LTD.
Selling Brokers, Sydney or Brisbane.
A capable firm, energetic, reliable and successful:
EDGEWORTH
HIGH GRADE
SMOKING TOBACCO
Australian Agents: R. TOWNS & CO., SYDNEY.
Specialising in the
Selling of Poultry,
Roberts, Reid & Co.
We offer you a selling service of INTEGRITY
and EFFICIENCY for the disposal of your
poultry. Every consignment is given the closest
personal attention of the principals, who are
supported by a staff both courteous and efficient
and most highly skilled in the grading and
auctioning of poultry.
Main Sale Pays: Tuesdays and
Thursdays.
Write for coop labels and latest market
information.
DOING ONE THING WELL.
Roberts, Reid & Company,
7-8-9 Municipal Poultry Markets,
Ultimo Road, Sydney.
THE MAN
ON THE LAND'S
PAGE
TANK SILOS.
"Mapee”: The practice of storing maize
and other grain in galvanised-iron tanks has
been successfully carried out in North
Queensland for many years. The method
used there is to have tanks of 1200-gallon
capacity, with a grain shoot in the place of
the water tap, and a closely fitting cap for
the opening at the top. They must be riveted
and soldered at all seams and be made per-
fectly air- and water-tight. Each tank will
hold four tons of dry maize.
In filling the tank it is tramped as full as
it will hold, and care is taken to stuff the
grain well in around the rim at the top, so as
to leave as little air-space as possible. When
the tank is full a depression is made in the
grain at the opening, about (Jin. deep. A
shallow tin is placed in this, and half an
ordinary candle is stuck to the bottom 'of it.
The candle is lighted and the lid put on. The
whole is made airtight by plastering common
soap around the edges. The cap of the grain
shoot must, of course, be made similarly air-
tight. The candle will burn until all air is
exhausted —which means that no weevil or
other insect can live inside until it has been
opened again. The tanks should have a
roof of some sort over them, as, if left in the
open air, moisture will condense on the inner
side of the iron on cold, dewy or frosty
nights, and eventually send the grain mouldy.
It has been found in practice to be more
economical to have a number of these smaller
tanks than one large one. I have kept maize
in perfect condition by this method for over
four years.
RECORD CROPS.
“Stan Barton” : In 190 S my father, in the
Barrington district (Tas.), grew a crop of
White Oiant oats in an eight-acre paddock,
and he harvested an average of 90 bushels
per acre—sound oats; “seconds” are never
counted there. The following year his wife’s
brother, living five miles away, had an aver-
age of 95 bushels per acre off a 10-acre
patch. Neighboring farmers estimated that
quite 10 bushels per ac. were lost in har-
vesting, as the crop went down and could not
all be caught by the binder. A couple of years
afterwards the same man in an adjoining
paddock harvested an average of 80 bushels
off 15 acres. And, by the way, although con-
tinually under crop ever since, this 15-acre
paddock lias tins year yielded an average of
almost 10 tons of potatoes per acre—not a
record, but something very high for the size
of the piece.
“Woodside": “Bad Australian’s” Broken
River (Vic.) spud-fancier (B. 16/6/’27)
did well with his White Elephant crop—
-31 tons from 1$ acres—but it was not a
record. It has been exceeded twice at least
by one grower at Woodside (S.A.). ,T. R.
Pfeiffer, who also breeds pedigree Dorsets,
measured the best acre of a nine-acre crop
last year and the yield was 21 tons scwt.
Even that may not be a record ; but at least
it must have been a comfort. What I do
think to be an Australian record has just
been achieved by W. Howard, a neighbor
of Pfeiffer’s. Twenty-six monsters from his
crop weighed a few pounds over a hundred-
weight: exhibited at the East End market,
Adelaide, they made the eyes of the fish-and-
chip merchants glisten. Up-to-date was the
variety seeded by both growers and, nor-
mally, it would not be expected to dig so
heavily as the massive White Elephant breed.
(Did that originate at Canberra, by the
way?) Both crops were heavily fertilised,
for in addition to bird-guano and high-grade
super., muriate of potash at the rate of
21cwt. per acre was applied. The potatoes
were ordinarily regular in shape, and were
of excellent cooking quality. Even the out-
size ones were free from hollow centre.
“Leo Lear”: Ex-Digger Sam Millard, of
Condah (Vic.), thinking that individual
potatoes of his annual crop were of larger
dimension than usual, emptied a bag. The
tally was 32. Is that a record?
POISONING 17.I 7 . RINGBARKING.
“0.J.H.”: “Taharangi’s” warning (B.
16/6/’27) should make tree-killers careful.
I have often seen root-suckers springing
from poisoned trees, but never after the
following recipe has been used:—2lb.
arsenic, 61b. washing-soda or caustic, 4 gal-
lons water; boil for 20 minutes at a gallop,
then replace water which has boiled away
with cold ; apply to fresh frill-ringing with
a syringe; the smallest quantity will suffice,
provided the tree is encircled by the mixture.
After a few days a black stain on the ring-
barked surface should result; if there is
any white precipitate it indicates that the
mixture was not boiled enough.
Great care should be taken to use the
exact quantities specified ; any deficiency in
soda leads to trouble. Keep well away from
the fumes while boiling is in progress, and
always remember that the mixture is a
deadly poison. 1 have seen seedlings about
3in. in diameter of tremendous vitality killed
by this mixture ; they were cut down about
one foot from the ground and the mixture
was applied to the top of the stump with
a swab. The seedlings were felled by under-
hand blows from, the axe so that the tops
of the stumps were shaped thus: /\ ;
and the poison from the swab ran down to
the junction of the bark with the sapwood.
Where there is plenty of small wood on
the ground I always consider that fire-
sapping is preferable to poisoning if the land
is to be cleared for agriculture. To fire-sap
effectively dig the earth away from the
trees to be killed to a depth of about six
inches, or to fully expose the junction of the
root-bark with the trunk-bark. Then pile
round a heap of dry sticks about one foot
high. Make these preparations in winter
when the ground is soft; and when suitable
weather occurs —dry, with light wind —fire
the heaps.
HORSE-ITCH.
“Mirwa”: In some animals the disorder
occurs regularly in spring and autumn, and
occasionally also during the summer. It
is of importance to prevent the rubbing. Tie
up the animals short with two head-ropes in
a wide stall, taking care the head cannot
be got down to rub the mane under the lower
edge of the manger, and if the stall is suffi-
ciently wide the animal will not be able to
rub the tail. Give a cooling diet—a bran
mash at night two or three times a week;
grass cut up freely in the chaff; corn, one,
two or three feeds according to the work.
Wash the mane and tail well with warm
water and carbolic soft-soap. When dry
apply freely the following lotion : Bicarb, of
soda, 2 oz ; bicarb, of potash, 1 oz.; methy-
lated spirits, 4 oz.; water, 1 quart. Wash
mane and tail about three times a week,
but apply the lotion every night. Give
one of these powders every night in damped
feed: Bicarb, soda, 40z.; common salt, loz.;
flower sulphur -|oz.; powdered liquorice-root,
loz. Continue this treatment for two, some-
times three weeks; the horse should by, then
be cured.
CURRANT-GROWING IN AUSTRALIA.
“H.S.T.”: “Goodnight” (B. 2/6/’27) is
right in giving credit to W. C. Grasby
for introducing to Australia the prac-
tice of cincturing currant vines. Grasby,
however, wasn’t a Renmark grower,
but a school-teacher turned journalist. Kim-
ber, one of the old currant-growers at Clare
(S.A.), used to claim that he and others
had practised cincturing before Grasby wrote
anything about it, but to Grasby certainly
belongs the credit of making the value of the
practice widely known. Next in value to
Grasby’s work, and even ahead of it as far
as the River Murray settlements are con-
cerned, was that of the late H. Harrison, M.A.,
one of Renmark’s early settlers and one of
the first, if not the first, of science-masters
who ever taught in an English public
school. Currants have been grown in South
Aus. for the last 70 years, but good crops
were rare indeed until the vines were cinc-
tured. In rarely favoured situations the
vines bore well, but the general experihnce
was that the bulk of the flowers aborted.
Also the berries that matured were of small
size, though possibly of better quality than
those produced by cinctured vines.' The
rough theory of the cincture is that the
currant, a very vigorous vine, normally
circulates its sap too rapidly in the spring.
The removal of a narrow strip of bark so
as to completely girdle the stem, or even the
making of a single clean incision, provided
the stem is completely girdled, does not
prevent the passage of the raw sap from the
roots to the foliage, but holds up the elab-
orated sap in its descent from the top bark
to the roots, thus allowing it to make its
way leisurely into the fruit bunches. The
cut should not be made into the wood, and
the operation is performed shortly after the
berries have set, generally about the first
week of November. Best results are obtained
by leaving it as late as possible, but there
is a risk in leaving it too late and losing the
crop through a sudden burst of hot wind
catching the vines before they are cinctured.
Some 201) acres of currant vines were
planted in Mildura in the earliest days, but
owing to the shy bearing habits of most of
them, no more were planted for many years,
and the industry was at a standstill when
I made a thorough investigation of the posi-
tion some 25 years ago on behalf of the Mil-
dura Cultivator (founded by W. B. McKay
and continued by his nephew, H. C. Lap-
thorne, now of the Temora Independent).
The result was to set a standard for the
training and pruning of the currant in the
district, and, the cincture coming into favor
at the same time as the result of Grasby's and
Harrison’s work, planting was resumed. Mil-
dura is now the chief currant-producing dis-
trict in Australia, the 1924 crop, the largest
to date, amounting to over 7000 tons dried
weight, or over 20,000 tons of grapes.
The cincture is also used at times on the
sultana vine, either on the main stem or on
the annual canes ; but the practice is not a
necessity as it is in the case of the currant,
and is not generally approved, although Harry
Showell, of Renmark, who has nearly 200
acres under sultanas and is commonly known
as the “Sultana King,” has pursued the prac-
tice of cincturing the canes for over 20 years.
He uses a tool of his own devising, and is
satisfied, as a result of control tests, that the
practice pays him. Experiments conducted
for a limited term by A. V. Lyon, M.Ag.Sc.,
of the Merbein Viticultural Station, show a
big increase in the sultana yield in the first
year of cincturing on the stem, and a big
drop thereafter. And it is generally recog-
nised that it is not wise to practise the stem
cincture on weak vines. Something of the
same effect as that of the cincture on the cur-
rant may be obtained by repeated topping of
the vines in the spring, but the results are
uncertain, and impose a bigger drain on the
vitality of the vine.
The Grecian and Australian currant of
commerce is the Zante. The Corinth or Cape
currant, occasionally met with, is a sport
from the Red Frontignac. It is a richer fruit
than the Zante, but no one in Australia seems
to have discovered yet how to make it bear
prolific crops. My own experience has been
that neither cincturing nor variations in
pruning have induced the development of more
than one or two straggling bunches on a
vine.
THE HIDE.
“Two Seas”: With a very hard winter
before us and a great scarcity of cattle feed,
our thoughts turn to hides and sheepskins.
The improvident person will not be inter-
ested ; but there are others who want to
save as much as possible from the wreck.
Flay your dead beast carefully, as an
average-weight hide free from knife scores
will average 3s. more than those badly cut
and scored. Lay the hides flat, flesh side
up, under a shed with an earthen floor. Scat-
ter about 81b. of salt on each hide as you
put them down, a slightly sloping bed for
tlie stack is best, as it allows the brine to
drain away. In about ten days the hides
will be cured. When taken up shake the
surplus salt off and fold up butt to head;
turn the sides in and roll up tightly and lash
with strong binder-twine or marlin. Keep
the flesh side as clean as possible. If suf-
ficient salt is not available to cure as de-
scribed, peg them out in the shade till quite
dry. Don’t fold them then, but roll up in
bundles.
Sheepskins should be stripped carefully
and all fat and meat taken off. Dry by
hanging on wires in a shed where neither
sun nor rain can affect them. Hang from neck
to tail, and see that the points are thoroughly
dry. In summer months the pelts must be
painted with a solution of arsenic and soda
to prevent weevils from reducing their value.
Fold the skins for market, head to tail, with
wool outside, and press into firm bundles.
FLUKE.
“Leo Lear”: No sheep disease has caused
greater casualties among flocks in' wet coun-
try than fluke; the very mention of its
existence near by will cause a buyer to step
on his self-starter and get. In wet seasons
the trouble breaks out in formerly clean dis-
tricts, carried by sheep before they show
signs of trouble. Mortality in Tasmania and
Southern Victoria in the early days was tre-
mendous, necessitating the abandonment of
sheep in many parts. But now that the
life-history of fluke has been studied, the
disease is being attacked successfully. Fluke
is a flat worm which blocks the bile duct of
the liver. A sheep can carry dozens of these
worms, each capable of producing hundreds
of eggs. The eggs pass out with the drop-
pings, and when conditions are suitable hatch
an embryo capable of swimming; thus it is
aDle to seek its host, the fresh water snail,
into which it bores. In the snail rise the
second generation, which in their turn pro-
duce a swimming embryo. This form attaches
itself to blades of grass. Then the jumbuck
completes the circle by eating the grass and
transferring the mite to the liver.
When sheep are infected their appetite in-
creases and they fatten rapidly, often dying
just as they are fit for market. If they
hang on through the fat stage a cough often
develops, or scours, and the ominous lump
under the jaw; after which- —toes up ! Pre-
ventive measures have up to the present been
directed chiefly towards eliminating the snail,
by draining swamps, erecting mills instead
of allowing stock to drink open water, and
also poisoning dams with a solution of blue-
stone, loz. to 6000 gals. (or 35 cub. yards)
of water. But now science is coming to our
aid, and, judging by my own experience, I
say emphatically that fluke is a gone coon.
A well-known Melbourne vet. has a capsule
drench which has been most successful even
in advanced cases. A few weeks after use
I've killed formerly infected sheep and not
found a sign of the pest. Again in N.S.W.
the disease seems to have been conquered,
this time by the use of tetrachloride at the
Glenfiedd veterinary research station ; but I
can give no personal experience of this
method.
One last tip to slieep-owners—spare, pro-
tect and encourage that black-and-white bird
called the mudlark, whose chief item of diet
is tlie fresli-water snail, without which there
can be no fluke.
LAMB-MARKING.
“Borer”: The pace at which lambs are
marked depends a good deal on the man who
has to hold them. Put the two front legs
on the outside of the back legs, which are
held just below the hocks and drawn slightly
outwards. This grip forms a sort of lock
on the front legs, which cannot be then
pulled out, thus saving a lot of kicking and
waste of time.
If the wether part of the drop is to be
sold off shears and a count is wanted to give
the selling agent, it can be automatically
made by throwing the wether tails in one
heap and the ewe tails in another. Do not
continue marking after about half past four;
it does not give the ewes and lambs a fair
chance, mismothering being a common result
of it.
WOOL GLASSES.
“675”: “Bourrie” (B. 23/6/'27) seems
surprised that the certificates issued .by
Brisbane and other technical colleges for
wool-classing are valueless for practical
purposes. Yet tbe reason is plain. Classing
in a shed is only part of a classer’s duties.
What concerns him at least as much is the
control of the shed hands. And since odd-
ments (wool other than fleece wool) com-
prise about 60 p.c. of a clip, effective control
and oversight of shed hands is essential.
Of course the three-year term commpn
to these colleges is far too long. A year
should be ample for any boy with the neces-
sary liking for the subject, provided that
it is honestly worked and is followed by
practical experience. But the profession
or trade is overrun, and I am prepared to
say that not more than one boy in four
turned out of the colleges is earning his
living as a wool-man five years later. And
I have been an instructor in one of them.
CORNER YARDS FOR MARKING
LAMBS.
“Waimea”: It pays to erect temporary
lamb-marking yards in the corner of the
paddocks to avoid driving the ewes and
lambs into the permanent yards—a proceed-
ing trying to men because lambs are so
inclined _to “break” when they are driven,
and trying to the sheep because it knocks
them about so much.
Choose a corner, if you can, with at least
one netting fence. Some fencing-wire, sheep-
hurdles, 20 or 30 iron posts and some three-
foot-wide hessian will be all the plant
wanted. A line of the iron posts is driven
across from fence to fence, with an outward
bow if desired. A wire is run along the top
of these posts and the hessian laid flat on
the ground alongside them and fastened to
the bottom of the posts on the nearest edge.
The sheep are driven quietly towards the
corner across the hessian without crowding
them through a gate. As soon as they
have passed over the hessian, a couple of
men hop in and lift the unfixed edge, pin
it quickly to the top wire with two-inch nails
and so impound the mob without trouble.
Any subdivisions of the yard may be done
with the same materials, but most of the
interior arrangements (such as catching-
pens, etc.) should be made with the sheep
hurdles. 1
The yards may be erected in a couple of
hours by two men, and the whole plant
is easily moved from one paddock to another.
“TAR” RRANDS.
“Solo”; “Trepex” (B. 9/6/’27), in his
original article, stated that brands apart
from tar-brands are “readily soluble in any
liquid stronger than cold water.” lam fully
aware that all the branding fluids used in
Australia are not made of tar; but if the
fluids used to-day are not readily soluble
(Continued on page 33.)


m
v'»
L-J
i]
Plant No. 1286, 82 volts, 1250
watts, engine 21 h.p., suitable
for driving pumps, chaffcutters
and other machinery.
‘Built to
DELCO-LIGHT
• Standards ■
you are an expert,
with confidence in your ability
to select the Light and Power
Plant you need, or a layman,
making your first venture in elec-
trical equipment, you cannot
afford to trust your own single
judgment. You must take into
account the years of trouble-free
service enjoyed by over 300,000
satisfied Delco-Light users.
Delco-Light is a subsidiary of
General Motors, sharing the effici-
ency and dependability common to
all General Motors products. It
comes to you from the largest fac-
tory in the world devoted exclu-
sively to the manufacture of Farm
Electric Light and Power Plants.
“Built to Delco-Light Standards ’
means year-round service, econo-
mical running, and a simplification
of working parts which eliminates
many of the causes of plant failure.
And when Summer comes, how
easy it will be to install Frigidaire
—automatic electric refrigeration
—the companion unit to Delco-
Light !
Let us send you full particulars of
the 25 Delco-Light Models —in-
cluding just the size you require.
Write for Booklet B.
WARBURTON, FRANKI, LTD.,
307-11 Kent Street, Sydney.
WARBURTON, FRANKI, LTD.,
380-82 Bourke Street, Melbourne.
WARBURTON, FRANKI, LTD.,
233-35 Elizabeth Street, Brisbane.
PARSONS & ROBERTSON, LTD.,
Pulteney Street, Adelaide.
W. F. STEWART,
29 Cameron Street, Launceston, Tasmania.
DELCO-LIGHT
Product of Genera / Motors
i
1
e
P*
\
Ride on
Weed Tyre Chains
A LL roads are good roads when Weed
JL"\ Tyre Chains are on your Tyres.
In mud, clay, sand and snow, or on wet
slippery roads, Weed Tyre Chains
grip and hold. They furnish the
positive traction necessary for unin-
terrupted and safe progress of your
car with them danger of skidding
or delay is reduced to an absolute
minimum.
Weed Tyre Chains are known through-
out the world as a quality product.
They are made for all tyres—fabrics,
cords and balloons—for pleasure cars,
busses and trucks, in Regular and
De Luxe Patterns. Order from yo ur
dealer.
AMERICAN CHAIN COMPANY, Inc.
New York, N. Y„ U.S. A,
Weed de Luxe
Pattern
h
Foremost in quality for more than 20 years 331
WEED TYRE CHAINS
CASIAIK BOUQUET
TALC
After the bath a fragrant
shower of Cashmere Bou-
quet Talc Powder will keep
you fresh and dainty
throughout the day. You
will like the delicate scent
of this powder. It reminds
you of a garden of fresh
and beautiful flowers.
fdtS,


*Tn ifrtalftf ''Li\
A WIDE. CHOICE Of SANDWICHES FOK EVEFCy OCCASION
i
a> us
L i ,
/\
O. _
IWI
js \m\
lrrrr«>»
[w %
'. ».>
o
u»
tSm A
X*
*
-aL,
*
Vfjl
X
3>
CO
c 3
ySMiilllliiiiiiillllill!
*VR-EX>f
FOOD PRobUtrSC
20ZS
©
©
PURE
FOODS
Sandwich,
Delicacies
' Something different and tasty —that is what
everyone sighs for, who carries the daily
lunch to school or work.
Something wholesome—that is what the
housewife likes to know she is providing.
REX-PYE, lib and }4lb cans, makes tasty,
satisfying meat sandwiches.
REX HAM PATE, 3j4qz. cans, is all
choice, mild sugar-cured REX Ham in
spreadable form.
REX LUNCHEON CHEESE, 4oz. and
2oz. cans, and porcelain jars, is creamy,
fully-matured che- se in spreadable form.
REX SALMONELLE, in glass jars, is
pure salmon paste.
REX Anchovy Paste, Bloater Paste, Ham
and Tongue, Veal and B con, Veal and
7 ongue. Devilled Ham, are choice and
distinctive in flavour, because pure.
Try these pastes spread on strips of toast —
delicious for morning or afternoon tea or
supper.
ALWAYS SAY REX.
FOGGITT JONES LTD.
Curers of the Choice REX Hams and Bacon.


%
?.S
GLOBE
r
'.2- r.
V->-
TIMBER MILLS C?
gj FLINDERS ST ADELAIDE S
TIMBER. , JOINERY,
GALVANIZED IRON
Lowes I - Prices, Highesh Quality, Promph Service
v\^ A >
it* ■> ./.^
SS®
ss*
»#im«
i®iip“
B?
s §
&m
SfiSsSS!
SsVV&
<*«
\\\\>iS
Milliard
THE'MASTER. - VALVE
IfWITH THr%
WONDERFUL
P.H i
FILAMENT/
&
/
A
as
tvs?-
*1
/A
s*
tm
Ivory Tipped
or Plain
*• De Reszke
—of course
Sand
and Moonshine
“ What's this they're saying about
sand in tobacco ? ”
“Moonshine, my child, where good
cigarettes are concerned. Some cigar-
ettes are made of the coarser, cheaper
leaves that grow on the lower part of
the tobacco plant and therefore get
sand-blown; so the sand has to be
extracted from the tobacco.
“But these De ReszkeVirginias are made
only of the choice middle leaves,
which escape the ravages of wind and
sand. There’s no sand to be extracted
from them, and it’s the expensive
quality of the leaf that produces the
fine flavour and freedom from 4 bite ’
you like so much.”
DE RESZKE
Virginias
TEN FOR NINEPENCE
Also in 20’s, jo's and ioo’s.
J. MILLHOFF & CO., LTD., 86 PICCADILLY, LONDON, W.l.
Agents for N.S.W.: DALGETY & COMPANY. LTD., Sydney.
and will not scour out, it is only splitting
hairs to reiterate that actual tar is not
used. The makers of certain branding fluids
used in Australia state that the brand will
not wash out of the wool from the time of
applying until the next shearing; “Trepex”
will no doubt admit that these fluids must
contain some highly-resistant qualities to
withstand the rain and weather for 12
months, which they do.
If “Trepex” wishes to be helpful to the
wool-grower, he should endeavor to perfect
some other method of branding sheep; any-
thing to improve the get-up of the clip is a
duty which men in the position of “Trepex”
should always be striving to do. A gentleman
in Melbourne, who is a wool expert for a sell-
ing firm, has recently patented a fluid which
will stand the weather and which he claims
will scour out; if the present branding fluids
and oils were satisfactory, would it be neces-
sary for this gentleman to experiment to get
a better branding medium? Would it have
been necessary for the M.L. chemist who
recently invented a chemical to remove
brands from wool to so experiment if the
branding fluids were readily soluble? To
come nearer home, on the 14th instant my
firm offered for sale in Melbourne 12 bales
of greasy brands sorted out of merino fleece;
the loss on this lot will be very considerable.
On the same day at another store there was
a lot of 24 bales of greasy, described as “Mer.
Tar Brands,” although they were not tar.
This lot was put up for sale by the Yarra
Falls, Ltd. Would this mill or ourselves
sell these brands if we could remove them?
Hardly likely, considering that they cost as
much as the rest of the fleece.
As a selling broker, “Trepex” is not
risking liis own or his principal’s money;
it is quite a different story for the buyer who
puts up the cash. It is no argument to state
that wool with brands in realised 40 pence
and another lot without brands realised less
money. I have paid 48 pence per pound for
greasy wool for America with brands in on
one day, and with orders out of the market
the next day have bought better wool at
pence per pound less, and this occurs right
through the season ; it is purely a question
of demand.
PEANUTS.
“Carisbrook .Tun.”: The Commonwealth
Government having practically prohibited
the landing of foreign peanuts, the Queens-
land Government is tackling the problem of
marketing and pooling this commodity. Silos
are being erected near Kingaroy, and growers
in the Cooktown district also want a like
arrangement. The total cost of the Kinga-
roy silos will be somewhere near £50,000.
They will have a storage capacity of 4000
tons, and to pay for the erection it is pro-
posed to levy the farmers a farthing per lb.
Ambitious plans are being made in Cook-
town to settle a large Italian community for
peanut cultivation, and a few weeks ago a
large tract in the Mclvor district was bought
up on behalf of an Italian syndicate in
Innisfail. As soon as the industry gets going
it is proposed to approach the Government
for help to build up-to-date oil-extracting
refineries. The Italian, who sees the grow-
ing enmity of the Britishers in the South
Johnstone, Tully and Cairns district, is turn-
ing his eyes north, and the rich lands behind
Cooktown are a wonderful bait.
TWO BLADES OF GRASS.
“H. 8.”: Cattle-breeders in Australia,
whether breeding for butter or for beef, are
finding that countries such as Argentine
(beef) and Denmark (butter) not only are
underselling them but are producing a far
superior article. We know that these coun-
tries enjoy certain advantages, proximity to
market being the chief. Still, seeing that
apparently for many years we will have to
sell our surplus overseas, the problem has to
be tackled. It will not be solved by appeal-
ing to our Governments, asking for export
bounties, etc.; these methods have already
been tried and the position is no better. The
real problem for Australian cattle-raisers is
to turn off more beef or more butter to the
acre than they have been doing.
The problem is double-headed ; it calls for
improvement in the men themselves and for
improvement in the equipment with which
they work. In other words, they must
increase their efficiency and the efficiency of
their equipment, which equipment includes
their cattle. The problem *is to make two
blades of grass grow where there was but
one, and this improvement must be effected
in every branch of the business. Much has
already been accomplished by the use of fer-
tilisers and modern machinery; but ample
feed, though helping to solve the difficulty,
is not enough. It is but one of the secrets.
Generally speaking, the most profitable way
to market our crops, whether of grass or of
oaten hay, is through the bellies of our cows
and steers, but the success of this depends
largely on the quality of the cows and steers
that own the bellies. There is no sense in
growing increased crops of forage to feed to
beasts that don’t know how to use them —
that are not bred to use them —to the best
advantage.
The successful man of the future is the
one who will make two blades of grass grow
where one grew before; who will require of
every dairy cow that she produce at least
4001 b. of butter-fat per year; who will graze
steers that dress well at two or three years
of age.
CAPONISING.
“Mrs. Lance Rawson”: One branch of
poultry-keeping is neglected in this country.
So far as I know, there is not a capon-farm
in Australia. A few of the big breeders
some years ago made a half-hearted effort
to caponise, but with very poor results,
mainly through a lack of * knowledge. In
some parts of France and Northern Italy
the' industry is almost universal.
Some years ago when I wrote the Poultry
Bulletin for the Queensland Agricultural
Society I gave full directions and illustra-
tions for caponising, and I am pleased to see
that in one of the Society’s later pamphlets
there is a chapter on the subject. It is a
branch of the industry that should be practised
on every big poultry-farm. The operation is
not difficult and the deaths under a skilful
operator are very few. When I was run-
ning a poultry-farm at Galston (N.S.W.)
I had one of my men taught by the liawkes-
bury College teacher, and I would advise
anyone meaning to take it up to get lessons
from such a teacher, as being quicker and
better than learning from the book. The
man I mention became an expert operator,
often treating 13 or 14 birds in an hour.
But you must breed specially for capons.
None of the Mediterranean varieties, such as
Leghorns, Minorcas, etc., will make capons
of value. Wyandottes, Rhode Island reds,
Orpingtons and Langshans do well, and I
was successful with cross-bred Malay game
and Brahma hens.
People here have not been educated to the
use of capons, and because any fowl can
be called chicken few know the superior
quality of the capon. Once it was known
it would be on every epicure’s table, and it
only wants some small poultry-breeder to
start the industry. I would* suggest that
some returned soldier who has a small run
and 50 or 60 fowls should make the experi-
ment. My own experience may be of value
to those wishing to try it.
HINTS FOII THE FARM.
“The Amateur Gentleman”: “Hack” (B.
16/6/’27) suggests blistering as a palliative
for ringbone in horses if applied in the early
stages. Crude castor oil has becen found
efficacious in cases of ringbone and splint if
applied daily for a few weeks. Blistering
may reduce ringbone or splint, but the oil
will effectively remove these unsightly
blemishes.
“J.McG.”: To exterminate tick go over
every part of the fowl-house with a blow-
lamp as painters do to remove paint. The
flame will penetrate every crack and crevice,
destroying both tick and eggs. I recommend
that it be applied to the floor, too, be it earth
or other material.
“Tongio West”: I know one orchardist,
within 40 miles of Melbourne, who has been
making over £1 per week for weeks now by
sending his autumn-tinted strawberry-leaves
to the city; and the demand is greater than
the supply.
“T. J.”: Yard sheep as little as possible.
Apart from the knocking about involved —
which is particularly detrimental in the case
of ewes in lamb —it is mainly in yards that
the jumbucks collect the dust that is so
damaging to the value of the wool. It is
when sheep are huddled in pens that the
blowfly gets in his most deadly work, too.
Unfortunately it is when the flies are bad
that sheep require most attention, as a gen-
eral thing, but it is better to crutch all the
sheep two or three times during the fly
season than to continue yarding them two
or three times a week to dress the affected
animals. Some graziers have a theory that
to get a good lambing it is necessary to yard
sheep frequently while the rams are running
with the ewes. " This may be true in the case
of long-wool rams, but merino males rarely
shirk their duty.
“T. J.”: Sheep require plenty of shade in
hot weather. Clumps of box and belah make
first-class camping-grounds. Wilgas are good,
but blowflies favor them. It is particularly
necessary to have a good clump of shade trees
close to watering-places. If a good camping-
ground exists besides a plentiful water-supply
sheep will travel very little, and eat very
little, during the hot months. Early in the
morning they will draw into camp, where
they will rest contentedly, with an occasional
excursion to the water’s edge, throughout the
day. Towards sundown they will draw out
again in search of a meal.
“Larrapinta”: When laying down water-
piping on the farm, one never knows how
soon it will have to be taken up again.
When screwing the pipes together coat the
threads with ordinary coal tar. It makes
a water-tight joint, and the pipes can be
readily unscrewed again. This applies also
to bore casing.
“Bendee” : Blood and bone does not burn
seeds after the manner of super., sulphate of
ammonia, etc., but under certain conditions of
temperature and moisture combined, it gener-
ates a strong mould, or fungus, which
attacks the seeds and rots them. This fun-
gus will travel through quarter of an inch
of soil, or more, to attack the seed. For this
reason users of blood and bone are well
advised to keep a liberal coating of soil
between seeds and fertiliser.
“Glenfield”: The wheat cocky for years
past has been depending on sales to obtain
replacements for the team. But how much
more satisfying it is to be able to go to
the paddock and bring in a young horse one
knows all about, instead of dipping into
the pocket for £4O or so to buy a horse of
which one knows very little; and the young
one, being bred on the place, is not liable
to wander all over the country should it
get outside the boundary fences. The cocky
should intelligently mate hisi best mare
every year; there is a pleasure and satis-
faction in breeding something which is on
the lines of what he considers a horse
should be. Besides having a young team
with plenty of go, he can sell the older
horses at a profit as they reach an age
from which they will start to decline in
value.
* * * *
“Two Seas”: To force a shy bearer like
the Northern Spy into profit, I have found
that cincturing the main limbs a few inches
from the trunk is the most satisfactory
method. The operator should take off about
half an inch of the outer bark right round
the limb, being careful not to cut into the
sap wood. In the spring when the sap is
rising is the time to do it.
* * * *
“Fez” : On the N.S.W. North Coast a fine
crop of early beans was coming on and I
had visions of affluence; then they com-
menced to wither and die off. Investigation
showed that they were attacked from the
bottom, and on opening a stem I found it
housing white ants. The ground was in-
fested with them where there had been none
durifig the time of planting a few weeks
before. However, I’m in hopes. The other
day while grubbing out some lantana I
found that the termites had made a start
on that. It must have been day labor,
though, for the patch is still flourishing.


Mere words cannot express
their infinite superiority*
Army Club
lO for 9d. CIGARETTES 20 for 1/6
In pure ribbed watermarked paper.
CAVANDERS Ltd.. London (Est. 1775), Pioneers of Hygienic Cigarette Packing.
&
m
CORK
TIPPED
or PLAIN
SMOKE-OH!
A miss is as good as she wants to be.
Politicians never find the going easy.
Many marry in haste and divorce with
pleasure.
There are times when the game’s not
worth the scandal.
ANOTHER BLACK MARK FOR THE HUSSIES.
FIRST LADY IN THE BACKGROUND: “You never get no
bargains these days, Mrs. ’lggins.”
SECOND D ITTO: “No, Mrs. ’Arris. The way them young
’ussies is wearin’ their dresses shorter 'n' shorter
they don’t ’ave no remnant sales now.”
The least a fellow can do in a lift is to
take his hat off to a lady when she has taken
off so much for him.
A man walked into the office of a divorce
lawyer the other day and asked how he
would set about getting “restoration of his
convivial nights.”
An architect describes tin; cantilever sys-
tem as “something with nothing to support
it supporting something else.” Lots of men
support their wives on the cantilever system.
Two Aussies in a French cafe were more
than dubious of their serving of ham and
eggs. “Garcon” was politely shrugging that
he did not understand. Another Aussie
strolled over to the table and took up the
argument. “I’ll fix ’im,” said Bill. “I talk
the lingo.” He beamed at the gesticulating
garcon and said Me suis.” No effect. “.Ter
swees! Jer swees ! Jer swees !” he shouted.
The garcon shrugged despairingly. “Blime,”
said Bill, “the bloke don’t know his own lan-
guage. Me suis’ means ‘I am’; and the
flamin’ ’am is ’igh, ain’t it?”
Although the modern girl does not blush
so much she colors more.
It seems as if the fashionably dressed
woman will stop at nothing.
“Bar bar, Bar Von, have you any splosh?”
“Yes sir, yes sir, yes, by gosh!
Some for my busy clerks, and some for me,
But none for Peter Punter —
No ! By gee !”
* *
The flapper likes the man with plenty of
go—if lie takes her with him.
It was declared the other day that with-
out time-payment many women would not
be able to buy clothes at all. Thousands
more men seem to be now opposed to the
time-payment system.
The Sun says that motor-
cars are sometimes an en-
cumbrance. Th e fellow
underneath is sure of it.
“Is 35 years the best age
for women?” asks a weekly.
Absolutely. But they rarely
reach it this side of 60.
A man wrote to The Bul-
letin Service Department
the other day asking how to
make yeast. He said he was
a dairy-farmer. And ever
since then the man in charge
has been wondering what
poor bed-loving pommy it
will be given to.
Melba is alleged, whilst in
Queensland, to have ex-
pressed the desire to see a
goat-race. She could easily
have got on the scent of one.
Men are not sports. They
will send shooting glances at
a girl if they catch her sit-
ting.
“Often it seems,” said a
Sydney clergyman, as re-
ported by the Herald, “that
the man who is oblivious to
all sense of duty has the best
time. He seems to spend his
time in a continual round of
•enjoyment passing from plea-
sure to pleasure.” Yes,
there’s no rust for the
wicked!
It’s a long time since the golden calf was
worshipped, but judging by the price of
butter its descendants are still being milked.
* *
“W.H.R.”: I had a good holding in the
semi-far-west of N. S. Wales, but water
was failing. I called on a bank in Sydney,
and made an offer of my 10,000 sheep, not
hiding the fact that a possible water-famine
prompted the offer. Said the bank: “We’ll
send our Mr. Jhones along at once to report.”
I travelled with him, and soon found that
neither the heavens above nor the earth
beneath nor the waters under the earth held
any secrets from him. “I’ll see your dams,”
said he, after having glanced over the
assembled sheep. There were five dams. I
gave him an honest estimate of the period
each would hold out—No. 1 four weeks and
the others three, two, two and one week,
lie noted the numbers carefully, and wired,
as I afterwards learned: “Accept offer:
sheep good; grass plentiful; water, twelve
weeks.”
A pessimist is a man who takes his own
drink to America.
Woman will never overtake man in the
race of life. She will always be after him.
The most attractive thing about women
these days is that there isn’t much about
them.
* *
The modern girl knows more airs than
her grandma did when she was a girl. Some
of this is due to the music-teachers, but
more to the dressmakers.
FIRST LESSONS IN FINANCE.
LITTLE ISAAC: “But vot do I haf to save
der pennies for, fader?”
FATHER: “Vy, my poy, you save der pennies
an’ den you pay dem in der pound.”
The courtship is the appetiser—
Cupid’s cocktail none may question.
The honeymoon provides the feast;
And after that comes indigestion.
n.s.w. Ckipps Clark.
* *
At spiritualistic stances tables are rapped
in gloom.
* *
The oftener some girls give cheek to the
boss, the surer they are of their job.
The modern fashion of the racecourse is
to have only a little on both ways.
The chap who’s most disgusted at a leg-
show is usually in one of the back seats.
A flapper who leads a fast life may be
only trying to keep her mother in view.
A clergyman recently labelled Bathurst as
wicked. And we thought that it was the
new western road that was the cause of the
increased traffic. •
In a football match at Sydney one player
threw mud at another. Isn’t it nearly time
something was done to cleanse our sport of
politics?
Alexander Watson, the elocutionist, says
he can pick an Australian anywhere in the
world by his speech. lie’s not the first to
notice how often we use that word.
UNOONSOLRD.
“By a recent investigation in London, it was
found that the complete outfit of a woman, including
shoes and outdoor coat, weighs 81b. 40z., and that
of a man, I‘2 lb. lloz.” —Anuus.
“And so you see,” Milady said,
“How sadly we have been maligned;
We skimp ourselves from toe to head—
’Tis little, love, you have to find.”
Yet still no whit of gloom he shed
But murmured, as a cheque he signed,
“Uncomforting to me it sounds
Who deals, my dear, in £’s, not lbs.”
VICTORIA. MACERS.
* *
A stretch of time saves a fine,
S: *
Familiarity breeds consent.
* •-!=
There are some men who spend half their
lives borrowing money and "the other half
in not paying it back.
* *
It is said that the spirit of the clans is
not dead in the Highlands of Scotland. It's
weak enough in Australia.
* *
The reason why so many women marry
worms is because they know that without
them there’d be no silk dresses.
* *
EPITAPH.
My little dear lies buried here
Who might my life have brighten'd,
And been my stay when death is near. . . .
And then again she mightn’t.
s.a. A. L. T.
* ❖
Even Miss Australia could be excused for
wearing clothes this weather.
'!»
Three Sydney musicians were thrown from
a car recently. They got the wrong pitch.
A golf bag which stands up is being
marketed. It will be welcomed. No decent
golfer likes kicking a thing when it is down.
The meanest man has been discovered in
Toowoomba. He has been married 15 years
and has not given his wife a single thing to
argue about.
Though the parsons thump their pulpits
And the dress-reformers rage,.
Only two crimes count with women:
One is Fat, the other Age!
n.s.w. Two Seas.
PHYSICAL JERKS.
“Do you really and truly love me, Egbert?”
“No, silly — I’m only doing this for exer-
cise.”
A friend in need is a friend indeed to be
avoided.
* *
A Sydney thief is alleged to have made a
liabit of attending evening services at church
to pick out and follow prosperous-looking
worshippers who were alone. lie went to
watch and prey.
TRAFFIC’ CONSTABLE TIME.
Time is a sort of traffic cot) —
T’he very sternest kind of Hop
Who. as we linger here or there
For golden joys we hope to crop,
Caught in some fascination’s snare.
With gruff voice orders : “Move on there !”
We take the wine in passion’s cup
And, dreaming it eternal, sup
On gold-dreams with the only one
Who really matters. Both wake up
To find love’s glory past and gone ;
For Time, the cop, has moved us on.
()ases in Life’s journey come
Where we would make awhile a home.
“Move on !” cries Time; and we are sited
With heartbeats like a mournful drum
Playing a funeral march-for dead,
Half-tasted joys still coveted.
We reach the Tavern of Calm Age.
Here cosily our thoughts engage
The memories of lights that shone
In past scenes. Ere we turn a page
New traffic comes; says Time, “Move on !”
And in a twinkling we arc gone.
N.S.W.
HAMER.
NOT THEIR JOB.
We drove on Sunday afternoon
Through leafy ways of Camden Vale.
Within a fence a notice-board
Informed the world, “fresh Eggs for Sale.”
The farmer turned a baleful eye
On some old hens beside the, creek.
“Aw, eggs is off.” he said ; “the cows
Ain't laid an egg for near a week!”
N.S.W.
TROY.
BOYS AND MEN.
When we were boys and talked of fun,
The greatest Life could give—why, then
We spoke about what would be done
When we grew up to be big men.
And now we sit here bald and stout;
And when we talk of Life’s best joys,
You’ll always find we speak about
The things we did when we were boys.
N.S.W.
A. D. M.
A MYSTERY.
[Note: ULVA, meaning United Liquor Vendors’
Association, is blown into the bottom of all beer
mugs in N.S.W.j
Once on a very dreary day,
When rain had soaked the world with
water,
I turned into a tavern gay,
Because I somehow felt I oughter.
I had the wherewithal to pay
(A thing unusual in this quarter) ;
My breath my wife could not dismay,
For I a bag of prawns had bought her.
Brimmed full with beer (Heed well my lay!)
By one who did as Ilebe’d taught her,
A good stout Mug was pushed my way—-
The lady was a perfect snorter.
But not on her, that shapely fay,
My resolute gaze was fixed, nor sought her
Bright eyes, for ULVA held its sway
. And memories of Lord Ullin’s daughter.
Why that is writ I cannot say.
But oft since then my gaze has caught a
Glimpse of the magic symbol they
Drown deep with floods of beer or porter.
Why ULVA’S Isle should be alway
The goal of enemies of water
1 do not know: I cannot say. ...
The thing’s mysterious, ain’t it. sorter?
N.S.W.
HYRAM.


B.S.A. offers everything
you want in a motor-cycle
Power, reliability, ease of control, comfortable riding
position, economical upkeep, the choice from the most
comprehensive range ever offered by one firm (14 models
in 6 engine capacities) and
the greatest value for money
B.S.A. Motor Bicycles embody
every modern feature of
motor cycle design, including
front and rear internal ex-
panding hub brakes, shock
absorbers, screw adjustment
on gear box for accurately
setting chain tension, mechan-
ical lubrication to engine and
front chain, grease gun lubri-
cation to hubs, fork links, etc.
Follow the lead of thousands
of satisfied B.S.A. riders and
choose a B.S.A. Motor Bicycle.
The latest B.S.A. model
o
\
B.S.A. 4.93-h.p. Side-Valve Special Sports
specially designed to meet the demand for a speedy side-
valve machine built on sporting lines, and capable of
road speeds in excess of 65 miles per hour. Specification
includes high efficiency engine with light aluminium
sports-type piston, exhaust valves of special steel,
polished valve ports, rubber knee grips, shock absorbers
to front forks, B.S.A. steering damper, sports handle-
bars with rubber grips, front and rear 7in. diameter
internal expanding hub brakes, etc.
Send for catalogue and particulars of ILasy Payment Terms
PRICES FROM £57/10/-
AUSTRALIAN DISTRIBUTING AGENTS:
N.S.W. \
Q’LAND)
BENNETT & WOOD, LTD.,
284 Pitt Street, Sydney.
VICTORIA- fin LA Y BROS . MOTOR CYCLES
PTY.j LTD.,
322 Elizabeth Street, Melbourne.
SOUTH AUS.— «/• N. TAYLOR & CO., LTD.,
121 Grenfell Street, Adelaide.
WEST AUS .-MORTLOCK BROS., LTD.,
890 Hay Street, Perth.
TASMANIA —sim king pty., ltd.,
63 Brisbane Street, Launceston.
B.S.A. Sub-Agents Throughout Australia.
D. Y. RENNIE ( Factory Representative), 49 ELIZABETH STREET, MELBOURNE.
Lead the way on a BSA


WestclcoC
America
%
Baby Ben
Big Ben
Luminous
25/.
1
0
<2
17 /6
0
rockx.u3ei)
I
Pocket Ben
8/6
To brighten dark mornings
BED’S so comfortable before sun-up. To drift
away into forty extra winks and be late for
work might be easy —without Westclox on the job.
All Westclox are faithful servants. Accurate
timekeepers, they never interrupt sleep until the
moment set; then “ cheerio, up you get.” Westclox
are good-natured reminders that work is best started
early.
Westclox are more than reliable alarms. Their
cheery faces help brighten dark mornings. Prices
range from America at 8/6 to Big Ben Luminous
at 25/-.
WESTERN CLOCK COMPANY, LA SALLE, ILL., U.S.A
English Flannel
Sports Trousers
35/- at Peapes 5
English pure wool
Flannel of the most
reliable quality, in light
or medium Grey, cut
for sports wear with
straight tops, belt loops
and hip straps.
The legs are of medium
fullnc S 3 and are finished
with cuff bottoms.
Smartness and service,
most reasonably priced.
When ordering by post please
state umist and inside leg
measurements.
Peapes
for Men and Boys
GEORGE STREET
(opp. Hunter Street)
SYDNEY
At Peapes’—Craven De Luxe Virginian
Cigarettes, 50’s, 5/-; 100’s, JO/-
s***<+.
m 4.
.r;./
gr.’L
vVv'ili
-#
-r
;'.K.
&V>
»i
&
feriv
&
liii
■tyfxi,
*»e
(?)
/iAp
1 _ V
m
■S'"
s
<#
ItaW.
JTu
c
(f^
W.
<VI «?■
C.,
?*?>
>■-
F?fa
~M
—*
£g&2S
r
House-cleaning
may now be done
in half the time
It is an easy matter now to keep floors, carpets,
furniture, walls, picture rails, etc., spick and span,
with the minimum amount of work. The Magnet
Vacuum Cleaner and accessories make a house-
cleaning outfit that does all the cleaning in the home,
efficiently, while the running cost is less than a id.
an hour.
Containing many improvements in Vacuum Cleaner
construction, the “Magnet” is entirely British made,
and is backed by a twelve-months’ guarantee.
A special feature is the inclined nozzle. It makes
it easy to clean under furniture, and the full width
is operative, the suction being exactly the same at
the extreme ends as at the, centre. Floors can be
thoroughly cleaned right up to the wall edge.
“A Daily Spring-Clean
for id. an Hour.”
Write for Folder L. 4180.
The Magnet Iron
The drudgery associated with iron-
ing in the past is entirely removed by
the use of the “Magnet” Electric
Iron. A turn of the switch and the
heat is applied— no waiting, no
smoke, no soot on the face of the
iron to spoil the clothes.
Np
„ PRICE - - - 35/-
Obtainable from all Leading Electrical Dealers
BRITISH MADE.
s
TRADE MARK,
REGISTERED
British General Electric Co. Ltd.
SYDNEY: Magnet House, 154-6 Clarence Street; NEWCASTLE:
Scott and Bolton Streets; MELBOURNE: Magnet House, 500 Bourke
Street West; ADELAIDE: Magnet House, 21 Pulteney street; PERTH:
Magnet House, 370-2 Murray Street.


Babies
thrive on
ĥ
it is so
nourishinq and
easy to digest
In 4 sizes
of all Chemists a, Stores
“THE WOMAN’S MIRROR”
Contains everything that women should know, from kitchen to
drawing-room, from the cradle to old age.
FREE PATTERN EVERY WEEK.
It is the most remarkable Threepennyworth ever printed.
THE WOMAN’S MIRROR.”
PUBLISHED EVERY TUESDAY,
Price
3d
osw©ro
©
Write for Illustrated Catalogue.
The Ever-Ready Co. (Gt. Britain) Ltd.
163 Pitt Street, Sydney
The Melbourne Cup Mystery
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
THE sensational ending of the Melbourne
Cup of 1931 is likely to remain
amongst the Great Baffling Mysteries
with the personality of the Man in the Iron
Mask and the unsolved problem of the
deserted ship Marie Celeste, found floating
in a crewlcss condition, but with nothing to
explain why its company had abandoned
their vessel or where they had gone.
The morning of the eventful race found
Ted Tracey, the crack jockey who hud the
mount on Valais Prince, in a state of nerves
such as he had never known before in his
long racing career. It was not a question
of his own financial interest in the race;
confident as he was of his good horsemanship
and the ability of his thoroughbred to cap-
ture the great prize, Tracey had not backed
liis mount to the extent of a single pound.
His riding fee and percentages and the large
sum the owner had laid him to nothing on
the horse’s chance would amount to a con-
siderable sum; but a lot more than money
depended upon the winning of the Cup.
Tracey had a keen longing to close his racing
career with the winning of this race —a long-
ing that had become an obsession.
The champion jockey disliked and almost
despised the business from which, a man of
careful and well-ordered life, he had amassed
a comfortable fortune. When, a mere lad, he
had made his way from the country to Mel-
bourne, his clear-cut ambition was to find some
work which would enable him to make his way
through the University and into one of the
professions. He found that circumstances
baffled him ; it was sheer necessity that led
him to seek employment in a racing stable,
where the horse-knowledge of a lad who was
almost born in the saddle found him ready
employment. It opened up to him an easy
way of making money in large sums when lxis
capabilities as a jockey were discovered. Ilis
ambition remoulded itself. He would take the
fortune the gods had sent; later on, when he
had made enough, he would leave the game and
pursue, untrammelled by monetary cares, the
professional course he had mapped for him-
self.
Perhaps it was because he regarded the
work as a term of servitude that he cordially
hated the whole racing business and his share
in it. Pie loved horses, but the atmosphere
of the racing stable, with its undercurrents
of viciousness and trickery, revolted him.
He imagined people referring to him, in
spite of his success and his affluence, as “only
a jockey,” and attributing to him the blunted
morals which were all too much in evidence
amongst a large number of the people who
make a business of horse-racing. There was
consolation in the promise to himself that he
would show them his quality; he had no
doubts about his mental abilities, and his
brilliant course at the University would show
them how far he was above the game he had
used merely to reach his ultimate ends. But
he had tangled the clear-cut issues of his
life by marriage with a childhood sweetheart,
the death of whose parents had left her un-
protected and destitute. With the arrival
of children the necessity for making his finan-
cial position still more solid before pursuing
his ambitions had come to him, providing a
reason for still lingering in the business where
his skill earned him big retainers. Moreover,
he had a feeling that it was only by putting
himself at the very top of his occupation,
by pulling off its greatest prize, that he
could justify to himself his existence as a
jockey. lie wanted, with a desperate desire,
to ride the winner in the Melbourne Cup.
Now that ambition seemed within his
grasp. Three weeks before the race he was
full of confidence of winning; but, day by
day, a nervousness had grown upon him. Sup-
pose he failed? He might then defer his
ambition for another year in a dogged deter-
mination to make yet another effort to cap
his racing career with the big prize. The
possibility of that further year was a torture.
Yet the public, directly he was announced
as the rider of Valais'Prince, had pinned its
faith to that great thoroughbred. At the
start Tracey had few doubts himself; but
there was always the chance of accidents.
Valais Prince, scion of a race of artists,
had all the temperamental qualities that go
with an artist. Tracey was one of the
jockeys who could manage the sensitive
horse; there seemed to be a sympathy
between them without which the nervy ani-
mal, a vicious brute to those it did not like,
the very spirit of gentleness to those who
were its friends, would not give its best.
But even with Tracey the temperament of
the horse would display itself on occasion.
The Cranbie stable, with which horse-
racing was a business,, had three horses
entered, and he knew that its investments
on Speedsure were much heavier than was
known to the public, whose faith in A alais
Prince kept that horse well at the head of
the market quotations. A dozen times a day
Tracey made nervous guesses at the mission
of the other two Cranbie horses, Moody and
White Stocking, in the race—both speedy
sprinters, hardly to be considered in the
long distance, but capable of causing trouble
in the race in the score of ways the tricky
Cranbie people might devise.
Tracey was all nerves on the morning of
Cup day. He told himself previously that
it was the result of the wasting he had had
to undergo to get down to weight; but that
did not remove the apprehension that took
possession of him. Ilis condition was not
improved by the infection which seemed to
have reached his wife; she told him that she
could not bear to go to the racecourse —she
knew how much depended upon the winning
of the race, and the tension of looking on
would be too much for her.
lie himself felt an aversion to going to
the racecourse; he wanted to put off his
arrival there to the last possible moment.
And yet all the time there was a nervous
urge to go— to go and get the whole thing
over. A round of golf failed to bring him any
tranquillity. Irritably he swore at himself;
if there was anything that would spoil Valais
Prince’s chances in the race it was this ner-
vousness of his own.
At last he set off in his two-seater to
traverse the distance from his countryside
bungalow to the course. The mad urge for
speed, that lie might run away from his
thoughts, came to him; and subconsciously
he put on pace.
ARTISTS ALL.
lie saw the break in the roadway, as he
came round a sharp bend, too late to avoid
the accident. The road here was sharply
banked on the hill side, and a fall of earth
had bitten off half the roadway. Into the
opening the car pitched suddenly and somer-
saulted down the rock-strewn slope.
Tracey recovered consciousness to find
himself, an aching mass, staring through a
tracery of amber and green sapling leaves
with a vacuity of mind that left him lying
motionless for minutes. Then memory came
back with a rush. lie might have been
lying there for hours! The fact that the
sun was out of sight above the hill indicated
that some time had passed ; if he was to get
to the racecourse in time to ride in the big
race he must hurry.
As he moved, struggling desperately and
painfully to his feet, he felt blood upon his
clothes. No matter, he must —must —get to
the course! Frenziedly. he dragged the bag
with his racing clothes from the wreckage of
the car and then, tottering and scrambling,
climbed back to the roadway above. Having
gained it, he sthggered dizzily and fell, and
his mind for a moment swam into uncon-
sciousness. But grimly he took control of
himself again and gained his feet.
Whatever happened, he must get to Flem-
ington ! If the effort killed him lie must put
that finishing touch on his career by win-
ning the Cup. If he was only a jockey, at
all events' it would be remembered that he
had at least won the biggest prize a jockey
could win.
There was considerable traffic as a usual
thing along the road. Scores of cars had
probably passed since his accident while
avoiding that gap in the road; it was quite
easy to understand how they had missed
seeing his predicament. Tracey was worried
by the idea that any car-owner from whom
he begged a lift might be more anxious to
take him to hospital than to the racecourse.
When the roar of the racecourse surged
upon him he could not remember how lie had
got there. The effort, to keep himself con-
scious had absorbed all his powers of con-
centration and left everything a blank. “I
must win the Cup ; I must win the Cup!”
lie was conscious of saying oyer and over
again—a suggestion to keep his mind from
swooning into unconsciousness.
Similarly, ho remembered nothing of what
had happened on the racecourse until he,
as if waking suddenly from a sleep, found
himself mounted on the nervy Valais Prince
trying to get him in the line facing the
starting-tape. He knew he had somehow
washed off the stains of his accident and
clambered into his racing-clothes; he knew
also that his face was deathly white —knew
it even before one of the other jockeys had
remarked to him that he looked ghostly.
His head was swimming, but with grim
determination he mastered the inclination to
allow himself to flop from the saddle. _ “I
must win; I must win!” he kept repeating.
Then it was all a blur again—a blur of
movement and mixed colors until, with a
start, lie came to a vivid realisation of what
was happening. Perhaps it was something
in the shouting of the crowd which woke
him up. Valais Prince was running on the
rails, blocked ahead by White Stocking,
whilst on his girth ran Moody. They were
in the dust of the pack of horses racing
ahead of them, and apparently increasing
their distance, with the colors of Speedsure
showing prominently. Valais Prince, full of
running, was growing restless at his cramped
position ; Tracey could almost feel the tem-
per of the horse rising. He had allowed
himself to fall into the trap the Craubie
stable had set for him.
Tracey took a new grip upon himself,
lie saw his one chance and waited for it.
It came at the bend; and like a shot he took
it. White Stocking gave no opportunity,
hugging the rails closely; but there was an
opening between White Stocking and Moody
through which Tracey went like an arrow
A feeling of exultation came as he felt the
joy with which the horse shot forward, and
heard the approving roar of the multitude
as the Valais colt closed the gap on the
leading bunch.
Taking no further chances, Tracey guided
the thoroughbred to the outside and saw
horse after horse sliding backward past him.
Valais Prince seemed to be exulting in his
free running; and Tracey let. him go. It
was a big effort that took the game colt
away with a three-lengths’ lead; but through
Tracey’s lialf-swooning mind came the won-
der whether the effort had left the horse
enough to shake off the final challenge that
\vas sure to come. It seemed that even with
the thought came the challenge. The win-
ning-post was in sight, but Tracey saw sud-
denly at his girth the distended nostrils
Which he knew to belong to Speedsure. Half-
inch by half-inch it crept more into hi •
consciousness as, gripping his swooning
mind, he set down to ride his horse right
out.
And still, with yards to go, Speedsure
seemed to be gaining irresistibly. Tracey
turned his head for a moment and glared at
the head by his knee; and suddenly the
danger faded out. Something like a snort
of terror came from the distended nostrils,
and the head faded abruptly out of sight.
With the great roar that came from the
racecourse multitude, Tracey knew that he
had brought home his winner.
His head was whirling faintly. “Must
weigh in, weigh in, weigh in!’’ he muttered
grimly; but his mind grappled feebly for
consciousness, and blackness rushed in upon
him.
* * * . *
The jubilation of the Flemington crowd
at the popular victory was changed almost
immediately to consternation which culmin-
ated in one of the most remarkable demon-
strations of frenzy ever seen on a racecourse.
The sensation of the finish when the strongly-
coming Speedsure had baulked suddenly
with a start of terror, fading out of the
race, so that it was Gorton, Slumber and
Lilac Time that followed the winner past
the post, was succeeded by a new one when,
after the numbers had been hoisted, Valais
Prince was seen to be galloping back rider-
less to the enclosure. Nobody had seen the
jockey fall; he could not be found on the
course; apparently he had vanished in air!
It was then that the crowd, baulked of
their win on a popular favorite, commenced
to break things; but Howard Jones, collect-
ing his winnings on the 33-to-l shot, Gorton,
hurried into a taxi, and burst into hysterical
sobbing.
“My God, my God! What a day!” he
said. “It’s the last bet I’ll ever have on
a race; but, thank God, the long shot came
off! I’m clear! The wife and kiddies are
safe.”
He went straight home, full of neAv. clean
resolve; and the voice of a newsboy shouting
“Tracey mystery: Remarkable develop-
ments,” caused him to buy a paper.
“The incident which will make this year’s
Melbourne Cup the most extraordinary in
history,” said the report, “has had the addi-
tion of almost unbelievable developments.
Those who attended Flemington this after-
noon will be prepared to swear that the
rider of Valais Prince was Tracey, a jockey
Avhose. face is too well known to be mistaken.
Yet Tracey, found this afternoon lying be-
side his wrecked car, which had crashed
over a broken edge in the Homefield-road,
was hurried to Melbourne Hospital suffering
from concussion and internal injuries. He
never recovered consciousness, and died,
curiously enough, at the very moment of
the finish of the Cup race. The V.R.C.
stewards, who have the task of unravelling
the mystery of the disappearance of a jockey
whom Mr. Thrower, the owner of Valais
Prince, is prepared to swear was Tracey
himself, have a very curious problem co
unravel.”
HAMER.
Neighbors.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
I passed my neighbor walking out.
My mood was one of dark despair.
“Now there's,” I said, “without a doubt,
A man who knows no single care.”
I met a friend, and lie began:
“Your neighbor said to me to-day
His neighbor is a lucky man—
Not many cares can come his way.”
And so you see just how we stand,
Such blind fools all we mortals be—
I envy my poor neighbor and,
Why, my poor neighbor envies me.
VICTORIA.
ADAM.


Nation - Wide Popularity through
Fair Dealing.
The phenomenally rapid growth and nation-wide popularity of the
Producers and Citizens’ may be said to rest on the fact that it lives up
to the spirit as well as the letter of the ideal of Co-operation. For
example, its Policy-holders are protected against forfeiture of their
policies during seasonal emergencies; each year definite sums arc
earmarked for loan purposes; while the Company's intirpate know-
ledge of the peculiar needs of the men on the land takes form in
sympathetic, understanding treatment.
The PRODUCERS & CITIZENS’
Co-operative Assurance Co. of Australia, Ltd.,
Gov. Dir.:
\. K. Trethowan,
114-120 Castlereagh Street, Sydney.
Gen. Man.:
H. Fell.
A GUN BUILT FOR AUSTRALIAN CONDITIONS
ħ
£2l
Post
Free
by WEBLEY & SCOTT, the makers of the world-famous British Service Revolver; of the same
excellent materials and high standard of workmanship ; and balance and finish superior to many
guns of double the price.
30in. barrels of Special Steel; bored full choke in both or full and modified : Anson & Deelev
action, Greener cross-bolt, automatic safety, and the high engine-turned rib so desirable for
close sighting. The half-pistol grip stock is composed of straight-grained English walnut, finely
chequered, and the modest hand engraving on the action parts is in keeping with the
symmetrical appearance of the gun.
COWLES & DUNN, Gunmakers, 453 Kent Street, Sydney.
'Phone: M 3388. Write for Catalogue “B.”
Id-cchanyc must he added to country cheques.
Our Service Department
This page is set apart for the service of Bulletin readers.
If you want anything, including information, you are invited to write to the
berviee Department.
. The service is entirely free. All you have to do is to attach the coupon from the
inside back cover of .last Bulletin to hand.
Readers obliging with replies need not attach coupons.
The right of selection and rejection is reserved.
To facilitate search it is desirable that questions be asked on onlv one subject at
a time.
Wants.
(.Replies should be sent to the number
set against the “Want,” c/o Service
I lepartment, RULIETIN.)
Posit ion by qualified auctioneer, 25 years’
exp. (5 in Aus., 20 N.Z.) ; good judge stock
and proved salesman. Qualified all depart-
ments mercantile and stock and station busi-
ness. Excellent credentials.- —757.
Well-educated Englishman, 21, farm and
station experience, wants position jackeroo,
good sheep station. Excellent refs. -758.
Position on sheep or cattle station, by new
arrival from England, 25, inexperienced but
willing.—74s.
Bank clerk, 19, wants position jackeroo or
book-keeper, farm or station. 744.
To let, main street of N.S.W. country
town, large iron shed, suit garage; good
opening for service station; cheap.—Bo(l.
To sell 400 acres close Yeppoon (C.Q.
coast) ; good roads, handy railway, well-
timbered ridges, well-grassed flats, excellent
water, (i-li.p. engine, sawbonch, saws, dray,
plant, etc. Fine, healthy locality. Make
ideal poultry-farm, £550. —707.
Hotel manager seeks opening; world-wide
exp. ; unmarried ; abstainer; lots of energy.
Printer, all-round practical man. wants
purchase working partnership. Fast, ener-
getic. Thoroughly competent.—7 Bl.
Young man, 23. exp. station store-keeping,
time-keeping, tally clerk, etc., wants place
store-keeper or something similar on planta-
tion. New Guinea or Islands. Highest refs.
—7S3.
Returned soldier, 30, married, good know-
ledge stock, qualified wool expert and classer
(Bradford course), had clerical exp. large
wool firm, now classing, wants position wool
or stock firm, owing to family reasons.—7oS.
By ex-naval petty-officer, 25, single, posi-
tion as book-keeper or correspondence-clerk;
well qualified ; refs.; anywhere.—79o.
•Camera by Adams, second-hand ; state size
and price.—755.
Address of Charles Victor Iloulston (28),
working “somewhere in Sydney.” His mother
asks. —786.
Art in Australia, 10-18, all or some. —
774.
Sell silver coursing trophy; first event
Gisborne Club, 1870; 75 guineas.- 741.
To sell two flutes —open hole, by Meyer,
Germany, £5 55.; closed hole, by Parfait,
France, £6 65.—746.
To correspond with a respectable lady with
view to marriage. Returned soldier, 30, Pro-
testant and has small grazing property in
N.S.W.— 1 743.
P.O. directories (1926) for Vic., Q., S.A.,
W.A., Tas. and N.Z.; also telephone books
for all Australasian cities except Sydney.—
767.
Recitation, “How We Made Dad a Free-
mason.” (Replies direct to W. C. Hodd,
Warwick House, St. George’s Tee., Perth.)
—789.
Second-hand books on old pottery and por-
celain, china, silver, furniture-collecting, an-
tiques ; ■ also old copies Connoisseur. —755.
Monarch Visible typewriter, £ll 11s. or
offer, excellent order.—7s6.
Volumes 1 and 12 of the “Australian Stud
Book (Thoroughbred Horse).” —540.
Agencies for Queensland, softgoods pre-
ferred. A 1 connection, good salesman.—7BB.
Buy “Australian Furs and Feathers,”
Anthony Trollope, early editions. —808.
To buy enlarging lantern, horizontal or
vertical, take half-plate and smaller nega-
tives ; any condition.—Bos.
Second-hand catalogue of stamps, British
Empire, ’25, ’26 or ’27 edition. —-719.
Information Sought.
Under Mouth Australian laic, alien can
the death he presumed of a beneficiary under
a trill, whose whereabouts are not known
hut is probably still alirc f —727.
Presumption of death is a rule of law
applicable in all the States. If it is proved
that for a period of seven years no news
of a person has been received by those who
would naturally hear of him if he were
alive, and that such inquiries and searches
as the circumstances naturally suggest have
been made, there arises a legal presumption
that he is dead. If, as you say. he “is
probably still alive,” you will have your
work out out to get auy court to presume
him dead.
May 1 erect embankments to tarn water
from its course and keep it out of lucerne
country? What, authority in N.S.W. can
yirc permission? Is there any authority to
stop me?- — 655.
■Control in N.S.W. is vested in the. Crown
by the Water Act, 1912, administered by
the Water Conservation and Irrigation Com-
mission. The Commission may prevent the
unauthorised use of levees which affect the
flow of water in these streams, or prevent
Hooding of land by the water in a stream.
The same Commission can issue a license to
construct.
I am an inexperienced, Australian working
on, a green block (N.S.W.) for less than
award, wages, under agreement. Lately
inspectors hare been busy in the district, and
I am asked to sign for award wages or leave.
What can 1 d0? —729.
You are entitled to, but are not receiving,
award rate of pay. To “sign up” as if you
were doing so would be to make a false
declaration punishable as such. Assuming
that you are clearing the “green block” could
you not enter into a contract at so much
per acre?
What are the limits of my power to bring
back or deal, with a defaulting husbandf
Does the law extend to (say) Malaya? —742.
If your husband has deserted you or left
you without means of support you can sum-
mon him to show cause before a Court of
Petty Sessions in tbe State where you
reside. If lie has left that State and is
residing in another, any Justice, on being
satisfied, may endorse the summons for ser-
vice in that State. A summons so endorsed
may be served in N.S.W. or any other State.
Similarly provision is made for the enforce-
ment of an Order by the Court where the
husband has failed to comply. As to Malaya,
such of it as may be subject to British law
would be covered by the Imperial Act, Main-
tenance Orders (Facilities for Enforce-
ment), if the particular State in which he
lives has been proclaimed a “reciprocating
State.”
What can be produced from grape-seeds?
Are cream of tartar and tartaric acid so pro-
duced? Is it done in Australia? —644.
Do not know of any definite preparation
made from grape-seeds. Cream of tartar is
produced from a deposit (argol) on the sides
of the wine-vats; this is chipped off and
purified. A pretty large plant is necessary.
Tartaric acid is made from cream of tartar,
chiefly in France and Italy; it is not made
in Australia. The crude argol is used as a
fertiliser; it is rich in potash.
Am a visitor to Sydney, 50, and wish to
acauire a knowledge of motor mechanics. Is
there a good technical school where adults
are taught? —7sl.
The course at the Sydney Technical Col-
lege is a long one and for apprentices only,
but there is also a short course for car-
owners and chauffeurs on car-maintenance
and repairs. There are many private schools,
such as Sydney Engineering School, 66 Wil-
liam-street, and the Efficiency Motor Schools,
44 Reservoir-street*
How would I go about getting clerical
work in the Pacific Islands, Java, etc.. —74B.
Follow closely the “Positions Vacant”
columns in the daily papers ; and communi-
cate with Burns, Pliilp, Bridge-street, Syd-
ney ; W. R. Carpenter and Co., O’Connell-
street, Sydney; Island Traders Pty. Ltd.,
Dixon-street, Sydney; New Guinea Trade
Agency, 114 a Ptit-street, Sydney.
What tobacco plant is most suitable for the
Australian market? Is any encouragement
given to Queensland growers (I am at Chil-
lagoe) to cultivate? —632A.
Prices have been agreed upon, according to
grade, by growers in N. S. Wales and Vic.
and the B.A.T. Co. If 632 A can produce
flue-cured pipe-tobacco leaf equal in quality
to those grades, there will be no difficulty
about a market. Write direct to the B.A.T.
Co., Sydney. But the advisability or other-
wise of attempting to grow tobacco at Chilla-
goe should be the subject of inquiry from
Mr. A. R. Pollock. Northern Instructor in
Agriculture, Townsville.
(1) 7?c rabbit-trapping. What is wanted?
(2) How do you break into the business? —
709.
Required: three dozen traps as a mini-
mum. Say 25/- a doz. A “setter” costs
3s. 6d. Add tent, blankets and cooking gear.
Unless there is a buyer calling, a turn-out
would be needed. Trapping country lias to be
secured. Mostly this is free—some charge
a fee. In that case the country is sacred
to the purchaser. “Free’’ country is any-
body's. The best plan is to join up with an
experienced trapper for a month. (P.S. To
somewhat relieve the pessimism, three young
friends of the man who answers this query
are making £1 each a night near Albion Park,
N.5.W..)
Recipe for taking out tattoo marks. —686.
Tattoo marks are best removed by the appli-
cation of a 3 per cent, solution of silver
nitrate. The solution should be put on the
mark for a few minutes and then washed off.
When the skin peels off (In' mark will be
dimmer, and repeated applications will finally
remove. Silver nitrate is a poison and care
should be taken with it.
I’ve got a .siriimg I leant to drain. The
tied of a creek about four chains away is on
lower lend, but inter veiling banks are high.
If 1 cut through, the bank, when a fresh occurs
water might back up and make matters icorsc.
—636.
If the crest height of the bank does not
exceed 20ft. above the water in the swamp,
the syphon may be made to operate provided
the water-level in the creek is lower than
the water-level in the swamp. Provision
should be made for priming the syphon. But
it is quite likely that the syphoning may
prove a delicate operation, and it may be
necessary to refer details to an engineer.
Was oil discovered in payable quantities
along the (Jlcnclg River (Vic.)? Are there
any tests for petroleum oil that I could
apply? Is it possible for oil to be there? —
673.
Home years ago oil was said to have been
found on the surface of the Glenelg River,
live miles north of Nelson (Vic.). An officer
of the Mines Department reported adversely,
stating he thought the oil might have come
from a sunken launch. Hydroxide films float-
ing on dams, pools and creeks are often
mistaken for petroleum. A simple test is to
plunge a stick through any bright, iridescent
floating scum. If the scum separates and
floats away it is hydroxide film and wortln
less. If the scum separates for a moment
or two and again comes together in one body
it is petroleum. In the latter case it may
be a seepage from the banks or from the
bottom of the river, and further search is
advisable.
'Fell me about the “ lightning" process of
tanning skins in which bran is used. —692.
All furred skins can be cured by the
“bran-mash” process. They should be fresh
and unsalted. Soak in clean water for a
few hours ; then over a convex surface, such
as a log, scrape off all flesh and fat. Get
a wooden tub or cask for a “tan pit,” spread
dry bran about lin. deep on the bottom and
lay the skin on it. If the skin is too large
to lay flat, fold the flesh side outwards.
Cover with another layer of bran an inch
deep. Do this for every skin, but don’t
more than half fill the tub. Add water
and borax, loz. to one gallon. Pour the
water in slowly, allowing time for the bran
to absorb it, until there is about a half-
inch of water free of the bran. Small, thin
rabbit-skins require about two days: fox-
skins, four days ; heavy kangaroo-skins, seven
to ten days. When the skins are taken out
another careful scraping is necessary. Then
wash and dry, but not in the sunlight. The
tub should be kept covered and left in a
dark shed if possible.
(1) What, use are comets? (2) Hus any
definite conclusion been arrived at by astro-
nomers as to the origin of the asteroids? —
667.
(1) We don’t know. (2) The conclusion
that matter which otherwise might have
coalesced into a single body formed into a
large number of separate small units is gene-
rally accepted.
I have been losing one every day out of a
flock of 150 ewes. First the sheep stands
away in a sort of stupor; ivhen approached
it, does not move; it will stand like this for
four or five days, sometimes having to be
lifted up in the mornings. When opened up
they are healthy and fat, and all have twin
lambs unborn. What, can I do? —717.
It would appear that the ewes are suffer-
ing from a disease of dietetic origin, common
during drought; ewes approaching lambing
are particularly liable to be affected. Remedy
consists in hand-feeding and to be success-
ful it should be commenced early. Supply
a laxative lick: Common salt, 4 parts;
Epsom salts, 2 parts : sufficient molasses to
make into a stiff paste. Under such con-
ditions ewes in lambing require a little grain
feed, 4 to 8 ounces daily, together with a
pound of hay or chaff (lucerne for pre-
ference) and any available scrub feed.
I want to build a gramophone. (1) Tell
me what parts I need. (2) Who mould sup-
ply them? —74o.
(1) A motor (the Palliard double-
spring, model G.G.R., is good). A tone-
arm (the Saxophonic). A reproducer (the
Vibratone). Also 12in. lid-hinge, door-
hinges. lid-prop, needle-cups and door-knobs.
(2) George Wollaston, 117 George-street,
Sydney.
Correct metronome time for (1) Minuet in
D (Mozart), (2) Boccherini's Minuet, (3)
Paderewski's Minuet, (4) Chopin's Butterfly
Etude.
(1) Not possible to identify the Minuet m
D by Mozart, as he wrote more than one
minuet in that key. (2) Quaver equals 60,
(31 Crochet equals 112, (4) Quaver equals
80-100. It should be understood that the
metronome speeds indicated are approximate
only, as a considerable amount of latitude
is allowed in these matters.
Information Supplied.
475.—Tw0 ladies of my acquaintance took
up this sweet-making course and were after-
wards unable to get orders, the excuse being
“not up to standard.” My wife learnt else-
where, and declares that you will have to
put in much more than spare time to earn
£3 a week —M.M.
285. —To prevent a galvanised-iron roof
from sweating, give it an outside coat of
Galvo red or slate and an under-dressing of
paint or varnish. —W.R.
350. —This correspondent wanted to know
the difference in cost between gas and elec-
tricity in Sydney for kitchen use. I went
thoroughly into the matter some time ago,
and found that here in Brisbane, with cur-
rent at 3d., it was too expensive. So, for that
matter, was gas. I finally purchased a self-
contained stove generating its own gas from
petrol. Neither the cook nor 1 have since
regretted it. A couple of years ago an in-
structive paper on “Domestic Electric Heat-
ing Apparatus” was read by a Melbourne
engineer before the Institution of Engineers,
and it appears in the transactions of that
body. The Sydney Division of the Institu-
tion, Macleay House, College-street, might
let 350 have a copy of that paper for a
nominal fee. The conclusion reached, work-
ing on Melbourne figures, was that current
had to cost not more than 14(1. per unit to
compete successfully with gas.—Jack Point.
636. —To render the inside of a kerosene-
tin rustproof for a short time, fill with cold
water and bring to the boil. Let boil for
an hour; pour out the water and either dry
thoroughly with a soft rag or turn it upside
down while still very hot. Dry thus every
time the tin is used. If not required for
heating, the tin should be. cleaned and dried
and given a couple of coats of white paint.
—‘Homo.
586. —It’s hard to coax crows to take
poison. Try trapping. Build a netting-room
like a large cage—say, 6ft. x 6ft. x 6ft. At
the top place a funnel of netting leading to a
stick for the birds to rest on as they enter
the trap. Inside have some offal or a dead
sheep. If possible catch a crow and put him
in as a decoy. Don’t destroy straight away
any that are caught. They will entice others.
Visit regularly to liberate magpies or jack-
asses.—Biro.
Does Anybody Know ?
It has been suggested that a blue wash for
bush kitchens and dining-rooms is effective
in driving flies outside. Anyone had experi-
ence? —795.
Brief Answers.
J. 8.5.: Are you a gambler or an investor?
If you are prepared to gamble, yes. If you don’t
want to take considerable risks in return for a
possibly good prize, n 0... .F.R.H.: Varies almost
from day to day ; at the moment the monetary unit,
the rupee, nominally worth 25., is quoted at Is. Sjd.
R.H. (Rathdowney) : Follow The Bulletin’s
“Land” pages; and a Dept, of Agriculture leaflet
has been posted... .R.H.: Chronicle, sth-street, or
Examiner, Market-street; cost about 9s. or 10s
D.G.O’F.: Best plan would be to arrange with a
wholesale manufacturing chemist, who would put the
line up and introduce it —and that is the costly p;lrt
of the business. A provisional patent could be pro-
cured for the formula at the cost of £l. But lots
of people prefer to protect their formula by divulging
it to nobody.... W. 1.: If the sum is a considerable
one, a p.n. would be advisable. It would require
to be stamped, if payable on demand 2d., otherwise
6d. for every £25. .. .L.A.T.: No. You are thinking
of F. S. Cody,. who crossed from Dover to Calais in
his collapsible kite boat on November 6, 1903....
I. : A German product, now off the market....
V.D.: Sorry, but you don’t say which city... . T.EiW.:
Elliott Bros., O’Connell-street, Sydney... .F.R.M.:
Of course we don’t know, but the best opinion seems
to be that the lead market will weaken rather than
strengthen. .. .A. 8.: The insurance co. is well-handled
and has good prospects; the other is doubtful....
11. C.: Write Dr. Blashki, 215 Macquarie-street,
Sydney... .T.L.C.: Just depends on u'hat amount of
risk you are prepared to take. There’s a good
deal of risk about both of them.... El Arish: Power
Farming, the tractor journal, tells us the Saunderson
is no longer on the market... .W.1.M.: Yes, should
be all right... .P.F.: No, quite unsuitable because of
the atmospheric humidity and the high annual rain-
fall (55in.). Go inland... .R.J.S.: No, sorry; it is
a German trade imitation M.P.: Good prospects
and well handled... .A.P.: Sneddon and Blunt,
Huntley-street, Alexandria, or R. Foreman and Son,
Chapel-street, Marrickville; both N. S. Wales. .. .
(Many other replies mailed.)


' Consider
Your Face
Isn’t it worth the best razor you could buy—the razor that will
provide a smooth, keen-edged blade for every shave?
The cutting edge on all razor blades is dulled after each shave.
The infinitesimal teeth which make up the blade edge should be
stropped back into alignment—or your skin will be scraped and
roughened with a dull, rough-edged blade.
Save your face! Valet Auto Strop Razor is
the only razor that sharpens its own blades
—while the blade remains in the razor. A
smooth, keen-edged blade for every shave.
Each outfit is complete with case, razor, strop
and extra blades. For sale at all stores
carrying shaving supplies.
The Auto Strop Safety Razor Co., Ltd.,
197-207 City Road, London, England.
Managing Agents for Australia :
PHIPSON & COMPANY, LTD.,
181 Clarence Street, Sydney.
'1,,,
7
IKji
The illustration shows the new No. 56 Set.
With genuine “Valet” self-stropping razor,
strop and three blades in beautifully-finished
nickel case, lined purple velvet, with nickelled
strop container, complete as illustrated 4 ~
for 10S.
BRITISH MADE.
Your Health!
1759
1
m
Guinness’s Stout
y*
4 US
■ !927
The World Over
OBTAINABLE
EVERYWHERE


(fll Engineered to lowest
maintenance and
% operation costs
m
$
'JTi I
A'W 4 f/*
i
art.vcV^
IWSS'
The Super-Six Principle
also revealed in the
E SSEX SuperSlX.
Freed to the limit in Hudson, the Super-Six principle is also
amazingly revealed in the Essex Super-Six.
50 miles an hour all day long, and ability to travel
even faster if you want.
t
A smooth, fast pick-up free from jerking or violence.
Long life to all wearing parts—accessibility, and the
most advanced engineering for low maintenance and
operating costs.
Riding and driving ease equalling anything you have
ever experienced—surpassing anything ever achieved
in a car of its cost.
No car of our experience has ever met with such enthusiastic
reception. It has been the outstanding attraction at all auto-
mobile shows. The beauty, comfort and detail of each body
type are commanding highest praise. And dealers everywhere
are reporting sales that indicate the greatest Essex popularity
of all time.
Practically
70 %
Australian Built
Under this combination of resources,
American and Australian industry has
achieved manufacturing economies that
no other builder for the Australian
market shares.
ESSEX.
Also
Hudson 5-pass. Coach.
Hudson Roadster.
Prices at some points slightly higher.
THE HUDSON MOTOR CAR COMPANY, Detroit, Michigan, U.S.A.
DALGETY & CO., LTD.,
Phillip Street, Sydney.
MOTORS, LIMITED,
Flinders Street, Adelaide.
NEAL’S MOTORS PTY., LTD.,
Exhibition Street, Melbourne.
AUTOS, LTD.,
Hay Street, Perth.
WHATMORE, McINTOSH MOTORS, LTD.,
Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
H. C. HEATHORN & CO., LTD.,
Hobart and Launceston.
DEALERS EVERYWHERE—BUY FROM YOUR LOCAL DEALER.
(183)


JENKIN SHOE STORES
for men u)ko care'.
Mens Plum or 3
Tan Willou) GalP
two vamp Oxford
shoe, welted sole-.
33'6
Black Polishing Calf
29'6.
249 PITT ST. Opp.Tattersall’s Club
Post Free -
For They are Jolly Good Fellows.
RESCH’S
LAGER, DINNER ALE,
PILSENER & STOUT.
RESCH’S
BITTER ALE,
AUSTRALIA’S BEST BITTER.
A nd so say all of us.
Western Australian Distributors:
BURNS, PHILP & CO., LTD., PERTH AND GERALDTON.
[l
SPORTING
NOTIONS
Under the Whip
When Bombard, having hurt himself at
Caulfield, had to be taken out of the V.R.O.
Grand National Hurdle Race, T. M. Burke
was considered a very unfortunate man, for
the Spearhead gelding had shown him great
trials and was nicely handicapped. But the
expressions of regret were premature, for
Burke’s other horse, Coybeau, proved an un-
commonly good understudy. In point of
fact, he beat a strong field of 21 decisively.
The weather was dismal in the extreme:
rain set in about noon and continued for
the rest of the day, the big race being run
in a regular downpour. Betting took a very
wide turn ; at the close of the call, Telarno
and Nobility were at 7 to 1, Grosvenor,
Woolpack and Seafit (heavily backed on the
course) at 8 to 1, Pildin at 10 to 1, Roisel
at 32 to 1 and Coybeau at 20 to 1; the
others were 25 to 1 and better, according to
the bookmaker approached. Lady Rooka
was in front soon after the start, but as the
field turned out of the straight the South
Aus. gelding Golden Fox (33 to 1) went to
the front and raced along the side two
lengths clear of Blarwyn, with Lady Rooka,
Roisel, Nobility, Jollity, Telarno, Grosvenor
and Pildin in that order. _ Golden Fox was
still in the van with 1| miles to go but was
not far ahead of Mneweed, Coybeau and
Jollity. About seven furlongs from home Coy-
beau ran to the front, and there he remained.
Pildin, Telarno and Roisel were close to
him at the last hurdle, but he drew away
again and won really well by two lengths
from Pildin, who was very unlucky to strike
such a snag on such a day, with gallant old
Roisel (second five years ago) 3i lengths
further back. Nobility, who had dropped
out but came again, was fourth and Telarno,
who faded over the last bit, next.
There was a little trouble at the last
jump, and Pildin’s rider protested against
the winner for interference, _ but the objec-
tion was dismissed. Roisel’s rider, to be
in the fashion, lodged a complaint against
Pildin, but withdrew it, on second thoughts.
Coybeau, who is a five-year-old gelding by
Bowman —So Shy, is trained for T. M.
Burke by Bill Burke. It was his third
victory over the battens, and he has been
a wonderful bargain at the £26 ss. T.M. gave
for him. He carried 9st., and covered the
three miles in the good time, under the
conditions, of smin.. 40isec. Ex-Digger George
Leonard, sometime of Westralia, was to have
ridden him, but had a fall in the Maiden
Hurdle, and Tagell got the mount. Good
luck for Tagell but very bad luck for
Leonard.
T. M. Burke’s good fortune began earlier
in the day, as his Roseworthy gelding l.ong-
worthy, equal favorite with Migrant (7 to 2)
for the Maiden Hurdle, won impressively
from the disappointing Deauville (9 to 2)
and Migrant. Longworthy, who has a Bagot
Handicap to his credit, is likely to turn out
a top-hole hurdler. Despite his steadier of
12st. 121 b., backers went solidly for Clan
Robert (5 to 2) in the Kensington Steeple,
and the former Sydneysider gave them a
great run for the cash, but the weight and the
weather beat him over the last half-furlong;
Nyangay (4 to 1) won a great race by a
neck from old Batouch (20 to 3), with the
favorite another two and a half lengths away
and Namera a good fourth. Frank Leonard
rode the winner, who carried lOst. 51b.. or
81b. more than his National Steeple weight.
The flat races added to the bookmakers’
profits on the National Hurdle. In the
Myross Handicap for two-year-olds, a 33-to-3.
shot, Chariot (he is a brother to Irish
Rhythm), deprived Erie Connolly of a small
fortune by narrowly beating that owner's
Dark Man (8 to 3), Laity (30 to 1 ) being
third. Sea Money (5 to 1), who is by Sea
Prince—Hush Money,, had Duncan’s ser-
vices in the Iramoo Welter, and with that
horseman riding a line finish, his hackers
collected, though Sea Money had only a
neck to spare from March (3 to 3), who
defeated Eulogise (8 to 1) by the same
narrow margin, while Honorium was a close
fourth. Duncan scored again in the Winter
Handicap, 3.0 furlongs, on Valorem (8 to 1),
one of C. B. Kellow’s, and again his jockey-
ship had a lot to do with the victory. It
was by only half a head that the Valais
gelding disposed of Nawallah (7 to 3), who
looked a good thing beaten; Cairncross
(8 to 3) was a fair third, but Textile,
though backed like a certainty, was one of
DROPPED ONE.
EFFIE: “You’re a rotten tipster, Harry. I thought you said he was a jumper.”
HARRY: “I did, and so he is a jumper.”
EFFIE: “Him! Well, all I got to say is, he must have come unknit.”
the last lot. No doubt the going contri-
buted to the defeat of some fancied horses,
Grosvenor .in particular, and there will be
some apparent reversals of form before the
meeting is over.
* * * *
• If the elements are not unkind, Clan
Robert, on his good showing in the Ken-
sington Steeple, should be very hard to beat
in the Grand National on Saturday, not-
withstanding his 12st. 61b. Epergne (lOst.
121 b.) is a seasoned horse; Namera (lOst.
21b.) knows every inch of the journey, and
Nyangay (9st. 111 b.) has run consistently
well in his recent races, which have been
over all sorts of obstacles. This Page likes
Nyangay, with Clan Robert and Epergne
for places.
* * * *
Four of the races at Rosehill (N.S.W.)
on Saturday were very exciting. There was
only a “short” head between Magdaff (3
to 1) and Killarney (4 to 1) in the Flying
Handicap; “short” heads likewise divided
Bollinger (4 to 1), Holbrook Belle (3 to
11 and Green Tissue (5 to 1) in the
Nursery Handicap; and the judge could not
separate Exceller (6 to 4) and Bonaventure
(7 to 2) in the Maiden Handicap. More-
over, 60 or 70 yards from the finish of the
Carlingford Mile Le Choucas (5 to 2), Tree-
fern (20 to 1) and Mak Siccar (7 to 1)
were so close together that a triple dead-
heat seemed probable. Then Bartle gave
Mak Siccar, the horse in the middle, a couple
of strokes with the whip-—he had been ham-
pered previously by Le Choucas coming in
on him—and the Eudorus gelding managed
to get his head in front of the other two,
whose owners divided second and third
money. It was a thrilling tussle. There
were protests against Bollinger and Exeeller,
who are trained by Kelso, but they were
speedily dismissed. Reference and Chateau
Tanunda (backed from 36 to 1 to half those
odds and lessl beat one another by fighting
for the lead in Magdaft’s race; tiiis smart
Magpie gelding was ridden by Davidson, now
no longer an apprentice, as also was Ex-
celler. Magdaff, being touched in the wind, is
not engaged in the Epsom, hut Killarney is,
and has had sotne support in doubles.
St. Eaton, who had had a run in the Fly-
ing Handicap, was brought out again for
the Rosehill Handicap, 10 furlongs, and
backed (at 7 to 1 and better), though there
were only 65 minutes between. Bagpipes
was favorite at 7 to 4, but lie again showed
that a mile is as far as he cares to go,
and Drawbridge (32 to 3). another importa-
tion, momentarily looked like doing it; then
McCarten brought The Thorn (6 to 1) along
and the race was over. 1 >rawbridge finished
two lengths behind the M.L. horse, St. Eaton
being another three-quarters of a length
away and Laird o’ Cockpen, who did not
look so well as at Canterbury Bark, a close
fourth. Although The Thorn had been placed
in his two previous starts (and they don’t
run like that when they are “dead”), hors n
and rider were hooted by a one-eyed section
of the crowd. At Randwick and Moorefield
lie made all his own running and had to
cope with challenge after challenge; at Rose-
hill, he was pulled in behind the pacemakers
and kept for a last run. It made all the
difference in the world.
Sydney trainers like the Moorefield course,
and there are so many nominations for
Saturday’s meeting that three or four races
will have to be run in divisions. Selec-
tions :
Flying Handicap: Reference, 1; Air Lady.
2.
Three- and Four-year-old Handicap: Re-
lease, 1; Kelso’s elect, 2.
Maiden Two-year-old Handicap: Sir Leu-
cops, 1.
Moorefield Handicap: Hinchinbrook, 1;
Chalder, 2.
Carlton Welter Mile: Onward, 1; Noble
Syce, 2.
* * * *
“C.D.”: There was yet another to pay.
and Basher’s bag was as empty as the skull
of an alderman. Grabbing the ticket from
the punter, he winked at his clerk. “Five-
nine-four, with a ring; how much?” he asked
meaningly. The clei'k, a new hand, and un-
versed in the battler’s language, crossed off
the number. “A fiver,” he answered. Basher
spat savagely and gave it to him again.
“Five-nine-four, with a ring-a-ting; how
much?” he hissed. “Five pounds,” answered
the clerk. Shrugging his shoulders. Basher
commenced once more. “Five-nine-four, with
a ring-a-the-ring-a-ting,” he bellowed. “How
much?” “Five pounds,” returned the clerk
doggedly. Basher glared at the offender with
homicide in his eye. “Are you sure?” he
fumed. “Certainly,” said the clerk. “Right!”
said Basher, whipping off his bag and throw-
ing the strap over the clerk’s head. “If
you’re so flamin’ certain about it you’d bet-
ter pay him, for I can’t.”
* * sj* *
“Oilskin”: Quadrupedal Davids and Jona-
thans? About six months ago the Victorian
hurdler Hysteria returned to his trainer's
stables at Mentone —In* had been out for
walking exercise—with a billy-goat at his
heels. Billy was shooed off the premises,
but he was hack next day, and the thorough-'
bred gave him a whinnying welcome. Trainer
Geo. Murrell and the owner of the goat tried
their hardest for a few weeks to keep the
four-footed cobbers apart, but all to no pur-
pose. Now Billy has a roving commission
with the gelding and dosses with him. When
Hysteria goes to a race meeting Billy accom-
panies him to the train, and is the first to
greet the jumper on his return to the old
home.
F ootbrawl
The second representative match between
the Queensland and N.S.W. Rugby League
sides drew another huge crowd to Sydney
Cricket Ground on Saturday, and N.S.W.
again scored a narrow victory, 13 points
(3 tries and 2 goals) to 11 (3 tries and a
goal). McMillan (Western Suburbs) re-
placed Righton as the N.S.W. full-back, and
llardy (East), went in for the veteran Law-
rence at outside centre. The Queenslanders
wore without Craig and King in the backs,
but Laws, at centre, made good in his first
iuter-State game, while Christensen, a big
fellow from Townsville, was the best for-
ward on the ground.! Queensland must
bo rated unlucky to have lost, for it had
distinctly the better of the play, especially
in the second half, when its persistent at-
tacks tried the N.S.W. defence to the
limit. As in the first game, the Banana-
landers opened the scoring with a
try, by Laws, after a good bout of
passing. A brilliant bit of work
!>y Wearing, with Blair converting,
put N.S.W. two points ahead. Arm-
bruster and Blair crossed the line
for Queensland and N.S.W. respec-
tively, and at half-time it was S
to 6 against the visitors. A try
by Parsons, to which O’Rourke
added a goal with a great kick, put
N.S.W. further in the lead, but the
Queenslanders, getting much more
i>f the ball than in the first half,
launched repeated attacks, which
generally broke on the stiff defence
<>r were marred by bad handling at
the critical moment. A deter-
mined try by winger Spencer w T as
finely converted by Aynsley, and
was the final score of a hard-fought
match.
Caplcs. at full-back, was again
a weak spot in the visiting team,
being very uncertain with his hand-
ling. Gorman gave some of his best
at centre, and was well helped by
Laws. Spencer’s strong running on
the right wing might have been re-
warded with a bit more luck.
Hughes showed marked improve-
ment at five-eighth, while the for-
wards did Avell to a man, though the
lighter Blue pack had the legs of the
big fellow's in the open. Among the
victorious Blues, McMillan was an
improvement on Righton; Hardy
(promoted after his showing in the
N.S.W. second XIII which drew
with the visitors in the mid-week
match) was a rock in defence,
though, like his partner, O’Rourke,
assiduously “waited on” by the
opposing inside backs; and Wearing was at
his best on the right wing, while Blair gave
a clever exhibition at five-eighth. To the
Blue forwards, however, most of the credit
for the N.S.W. wins must go. With two
victories and a draw, the side is well on its
way to winning the rubber, which will be
decided in Brisbane early in August.
Hi * * *
“Amateur Pro.”: The jingle of the guinea
was the tune to which the Board of Control
of the Queensland and N.S.W. Rugby Leagues
was content to dance last week, when it
meekly acquiesced in the visit of an English
League team to Australia. It went further
than that, for it sent its humble duty to the
English body and begged it to be so good
as to invite an Australian side to England.
One would have thought that the gross
breach of faith in the matter of purchasing
Australian players recently offered by the
English League would have resulted in an
indignant withdrawal of the invitation to
the English team, if not the severing of
relations. That the hardheaded North of
England gang correctly sized up the huckster-
ing proclivities of the crowd with whom it
had to reckon is evident in the Australian
body’s humble acceptance of the kick to its
coat-tails and its offer to give its insuiter
every opportunity to administer some more
of the same sort. It is refreshing to turn
to the example of the Maoriland League.
Small and struggling though it is, the M.L.
body has cancelled its part of the invitation
to the English players and proposes to treat
their controllers as the U.S.A. has treated
the Soviet Republic. That is sportsmanship
of the self-respecting, as opposed to the pony-
racing, type.
(Continued on paqe Jfl.)
ONE—OR THE OTHER.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
A pinch of ivet sand in the fingers,
The white pill perched on the tee.
And challenging far down the fairway
The first flag waving free;
A swing that is all that’s right,
A swish, and a crisp, clean bite,
And a screamer’s glorious flight—
What more can life hold for me?
A satisfied trudge that paces
Two hundred yards between,
Then a straight, low, raking second
Takes the ball to the lip of the green;
When it’s chipped just over the top
And trickles along to drop
With a soul-rejoicing plop,
I wouldn’t say Aunt to the Queen.
But a bean that insists on bobbing,
Pulled shots that the hazards find,
A lie in a sandy heel-mark.
And a shouting pair behind ;
A ball that is dead on the pin
But will simply not go in—
Golf isn’t a game, it is Sin,
Or a morbid State of Mind.
Then the next ball sliced and bunkered,
Or gripped in a twiggy jaw,
While penalty strokes inflicted
By Royal and Ancient law
Mount up to the other chap’s joy—
Oh, I should have been drowned as a boy,
And I’ll change my clubs for a toy,
For a doll, or a hopscotch taw!
VICTORIA.
RIKKI T.


•J
•J
•j
')
•J
■)
•J
')
•)
■J
•J
•)
■)
•)
"J
•)
■)
■J
■)
•)
V
■J
V
'J
')
V
V
• > % ) •) ■) •) •) *) ■) ) •> •) •) ■) ■) •) •) ') ')"■') ') •> •) *>
Real Old Scotch!
)
i
i
ps!
J
j
1
% J 'J V ') •) ') v-j .j v •j■. j •; v
J
'J
’J
v
•J
•J
v
'j
■j
■j
' j
«
>»
•j
•j
V
' /
'J
')
V
v
v
‘j
'j
'j ')
The AGE, MELLOWNESS and DIGNITY
of this Senior Whisky will
sustain the tone of any house.
WHITE HORSE DISTILLERS LTD.,
Glasgow,
DALGETY & COMPANY LTD.,
Agents.


QN
BANK
THE QUEENSLAND NATIONAL BANK, LIMITED.
Incorporated under the Companies Act 1863. Established 1872.
Directors —A. C. I.uya, Esq., Chairman; James Love, Esq.; W. H. Hart, Esq.;
M. J. Ryan, Esq.; D. W. Macdonald, Esq.
General Manager— M. G. HAYMEN.
HEAD OFFICE BRISBANE
With offices at London. Canberra (Federal Territory), Melbourne, Sydney, and
95 branches in Queensland and Northern Rivers, N. S. Wales, also representation
through the leading Banking Institutions covering Australasia and the World, this
Bank offers the fullest facilities for the transaction of all general banking business.
Ericsson Telephone Mfg. Co.
(Formerly James Paton & Co.)
Sole Importers of the Famous Ericsson Telephone and Switchboard
Apparatus, for Magneto, Common Battery and Automatic Working.
WIRELESS APPARATUS,
19 YORK STREET, SYDNEY; 509 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE.
HEWSO
THE WONDER CLEANSER,
Removes TAR, GREASE, PAINT, etc., from your hands instantly
in COLD WATER.
Unexcelled for cleaning BATHS, SINKS, KITCHEN UTENSILS,
etc. Removes RUST AND BURNS from SAUCEPANS.
Can be used as a BODY SOAP.
NO SODA.
Leaves Your Hands Like Velvet.
lid. PER Boz. TIN.
ASK YOUR GROCER. OR DIRECT FROM
GENERAL DISTRIBUTING CO., LTD.,
Wembley House, Railway Square, Sydney.
COUNTRY AND INTERSTATE AGENTS WANTED.
In the Itugby Union competition, Univer-
sity administered a sound drubbing to
Y.M.C.A., the young men crashing by 41
to 16. W. Mann, promoted recently from the
second grade, scored four tries for Uni.; he
was the most astonished youth in Australia
(he is only 19) when told later that he had
been selected to fill the vacant wing-three-
quarter position in the Waratahs, the Rugby
Union side which leaves for Britain in
mid-July. Apart from the selectors, no one
had thought of him as haviiig Buckley’s
chance. Manly went close to defeat by
North at the Village, but managed to scrape
home by 17 to 14. Western Suburbs, without
Lawton, beat Randwick comfortably by 13
to 3, and a hard go between East and
Glebe-Balmain was won by the former, 17—
11. Wallace, the Waratah captain, left the
ranks of the losers in the second half with
a knee injury.
* * * *
Gladesville-Ryde, playing on its new
ground, administered a severe defeat to Bal-
gownie, 5 goals to 2; 4000 spectators wit-
nessed the downfall of the South Coast
cracks. Granville also walloped Thirroul,
6 to 2, so the colliery lads had a fairly bad
day of it, though they got something back
when Corrimal defeated Annandale-Leieh-
hardt, 3 to 2.
“Shrewsbury” : Though the Czeclio-Slovaks
did not rival the undefeated record of the
Englishmen, their tour of Australia, with
12 wins, 4 losses and 2 draws, was a very
good showing. The fact is, the form of Aus-
tralian players has greatly improved; they
learned a lot from the Englishmen. As a
combination on the field, the Czechs were
as clever as their forerunners, but they
lacked the deadly “shooting” capacity of the
Britons near goal. Their four losses in-
cluded one against N.S.W. at Sydney, one
each at Maitland and Newcastle and one
against Queensland in Brisbane.
* * * *
Followers of the Australian game saw
a great 'go between Eastern Suburbs and
Sydney at Hampden Oval, East winning
by 73 (10-13) to 63 (9-9).
* * * *
Melbourne’s League games on Saturday
promised some gaudy shows, but the rain
that the man-on-the-land was so glad to
see turned them into mere displays of mud-
larking. The Richmond Tigers kept their
place in the procession and pushed Geelong
down a step by collecting 69 points to Gee-
long’s 53. Melbourne, temporarily at least,
outed Carlton from the big four by raking
in 70 points to the Old Blues’ 55 : and Col-
lingwood improved its percentage by annex-
ing 59 points to North Melbourne’s 29. Also
St. Kilda floundered through the Footscray
mud and over the locals, finishing with 43
points to ’Scray’s 30. South Melbourne
pounded Hawthorn with 97 points to 41;
and Essendon, though it didn’t win, man-
aged to stave off another defeat by rushing
a point just as the bell rang and so making
a draw with Fitzroy—4B points all. During
the week the League’s tribunal suspended
two players for eight weeks, one for 10 and
another for four weeks for using the fist
and the elbow; also it announced that the
■Wednesday League would have to provide
adequate protection for its umpires, one of
whom had had a bucket of water emptied over
him by a barracker. On Saturday the
same umpire, a really competent fellow, was
busy ducking clods and stones at the end
of the match on the Carlton ground. But
the Law was there in force, and not only
protected him from the lion-hearted push
but made an arrest.
* * * *
There was plenty of excitement in the Holy
City when Port Adelaide went down before
West Torrens on the latter’s ground by a
solitary point—9 goals 11 beliinds to West's
9 goals 12 beliinds. Two Port men were
laid out, and feeling ran hot and high in
the closing stages, players, spectators and
police mixing it briskly, while the umpire, of
course, came in for his issue. This is Port’s
second defeat this season, the other having
come from the boots of Glenelg. West Adel-
aide, by beating Norwood, now shares top
place with Port, West Torrens moving from
third to second.
“Light” : Frank Golding played his 200th
competition game last Saturday, when he led
Sturt to victory against Glenelg. He has
been 22 seasons in first-grade football, hav-
ing begun in Perth (W.A.) in 1906; lie
moved to Adelaide and the Sturt club in
1909, and since then has played continu-
ously with Sturt. This is to be his last
season, for at 38—he began playing first-
grade football at 16—he feels the pace is
telling.
M.Q. (and Rafferty) Rules
A month or two since, “Tiger” Payne was
a great “draw” at Sydney Stadium, but so
many former Stadium regulars are going to
the dogs these Saturday nights that there
wasn’t a fortune in the house when the
coon had his return match with Westralian
George Thompson. Far from it. Yet the
mill was exciting enough, and the white
man’s showing surprised the three-bobbers.
Splendidly timed and whole-hearted punches
burst Payne’s lips as early as the first round.
The darkie resorted to his “tomahawk” blow
at the ducking head, but was made to look-
silly in the second by Thompson’s left jabs
to the face and eel-like evasion of tremen-
dous drives and swings. In the third Payne
was penned on the ropes and battered like an
old punching-bag, and when Thompson let
him out he missed repeatedly. Both fought
like enraged bull-terriers all through the
fourth, but the paleface had all the better
of the scoring, while the fifth was a very
bad round for the dusky smasher, who once
reeled back to the rope's from a heavy left
swing to the chin. In the sixth and seventh
Thompson swapped punches and had much
the better of the deal, Payne’s face being
smothered in blood as he reeled out of a
rally at the sound of the. bell.
The eighth opened badly for Payne, who
wap soon jammed against the ropes. By a
desperate side rush he escaped, and, turning,
slung terrific swings. Thompson leaped back,
but was just within range of a speculative
right. It took him on the jaw and George
went to the canvas, where, quite cool and
collected, lie took eight seconds. On rising he
was rushed down, to resume at “five” and
be pushed to the canvas again. His corner
made frantic signs to him to get up, and he
rose in response, when he should have taken
nine seconds. Before he could get set Payne
FOOTBALL NOTE.
“Smith, in the centre, was doing the work of two men.”
was on him with left and right to the jaw,
and lie fell flat on his back, his head rapping
hard on the floor. This time he was counted
out just two seconds from the bell that
would have ended the round. Nobody ever
saw Thompson fight so brilliantly before, and
even in defeat he was cheered to the echo.
The negro’s victory was due to an absolute
fluke; he was a beaten black man when he
landed that wild “speculator.” Weights:
Payne. 13 st. 121 b.; Thompson, 32st. 71b.
* * * *
“Mitt”: Tommy Milligan, who boxed
American Micky Walker for the world’s
middleweight championship in London last
week, was billed as “Britain’s Hope.” Like
Mother Hubbard’s dog, he had none, for
Michael gave him the father of a hiding and
knocked him out in the 3.oth round. Milligan
was clever and dead game, but the Yankee's
punching was too much for him. According
to one newspaper account “an exceptionable
number of ladies” attended the gory spec-
tacle.
» * * *
Louis Pergantas. a hairy-cliested Greek
who has been in Melbourne for some time
clamoring for a share in the big money dis-
tributed among foreign wrestlers, was given
his chance on Saturday night, when he ex-
changed grapples with Mike Yokel, the fat
little American, who tells the bear stories so
prettily from 3LO at children's hour. Louis
possesses a nice collection of holds, but
wrestles with scrupulous fairness, a draw-
back in the “modern” grappling game. In
the first round he exploited the scissors at
Mike’s expense; in the second, after securing
the splits, he turned it to a cradle-hold and
pinned the blond Michael in 3min. 17scc.
After this achievement Louis brought the
populace to its toes by bridging from a body-
scissors with such strength that the repeated
application of Mike’s weight on his chest
failed to break it. Michael, in his turn,
punished the Greek with a hammerlock, but
the classically-moulded Louis broke free. In
the fifth bout Pergantas clapped on a series
of headloeks that seemed to have Mike in
Queer-street, but Mike was only shamming.
Suddenly whirling the Greek aloft in his
aeroplane spin, lie dumped the unhappy man
with such force that Louis thought no more
of wrestling that night. Yokel the winner.
Mike, at 12st. 121 b., was 41b. the heavier.
* * * *
“A.8.W.” : Fate has played a derisive trick
at the expense of A 1 Ivarasick, the Russian
wrestler. He collapsed after training, and
was rushed to a Melbourne hospital with a
“heart,” which was diagnosed later as acute
indigestion. Only two nights previously lie
had broadcast a lecture from 3LO on “Diet,
and how to keep fit.”
Racquet and Bawl
Wimbledon this year drew the most cos-
mopolitan crowd of competitors in its his-
tory. Australia was conspicuous by its
absence, but pretty well the rest of the world
was represented. The Empire had a bad
spin, though Raymond and Condon, of South
Africa, won to the semi-finals of the men’s
doubles, to be knocked out by Brugnon and
Cochet, of France; while Tilden and Hunter,
the Americans, disposed of the English pair,
Lycett and Austin. In the final, the Ameri-
cans overcame Brugnon and Cochet after
five hard sets: 1-0, 4-6, S-6. G-3, 0-4. Tilden
was very keen on capturing the men’s singles
before embarking on a professional career.
He won the first two sets of his semi-final
with Cochet, 2-6, 4-6, but the young Pro-
vencal wore him down and took the last
three: 7-5, 0-4, 6-3. In the final, Cochet
disposed of Jean Borotra, being too steady
for the bounding Basque: 4-6, 4-6, 6-3, 6-4,
7-5. Joan Fry having eliminated Betty Nut-
hall in the women’s singles, and having been
outed herself by Helen Wills, the final was
fought between Helen and the beauteous
Spaniard, D’Alvarez. The phlegmatic Yankee
girl won in straight sets..
“Linesman” : Before he left the U.S. on the
present adventure in Europe, Tilden declared
that of the three outstanding Frenchmen
he feared Cocliet most. Laeoste, he said, was
extraordinarily sound ; Borotra was frequently
brilliant; but it was to Cocliet one had to
look for the really inspired game. On his
day, which admittedly is not frequent, Cocliet
is all that Brookes was, and more, surpass-
ing the Australian in the pace of his driving
and equalling him in the adroitness of his
strategy and in *the beauty of his volleys.
It takes a great man to face Tilden with
a volleying attack, and it was by his clever-
ness in catching many of the other’s returns
before they could reach the ground that
Cochet was great last week. Even with
the possible loss of Borotra, France’s chances
for the Davis Cup look rosier than ever.
❖ ❖ % Sfc
“Cut Shot”: Suzanne Lenglen’s first
appearance as a professional in England had
all tin l hallmarks of a frost. The French star
opened at a club near Henley in a match
against Dora Kering. which she won in the
hollowest fashion. Only about 400 specta-
tors were willing to pay the prices asked by
the promoter—reserved seats were 70s. and
80s. —while the amateur finals at Wimbledon
were rushed. Though attendances may liven
up with the Wimbledon and Henley counter-
attractions over, the outlook is not promising
from the promoter's point of view.
❖ :jc jjc
“Suzanne Wills”: It has been practically
decided to send a women’s tennis team to
Europe next year, with, perhaps, a return
through America, as in 1925. Nearly all
the leading Australian playerettes are avail-
able for selection, including Esna Boyd and
Daphne Akhurst. The last tour was an
unqualified success. This one might be varied
by a call on South Africa on the way back
if the American route is not taken. Afri-
kander form must be pretty good, for the
Union’s representatives at Wimbledon, Miss
Heine and Mrs. Peacock, did well.
* * * *
“8.A.”: Touching Badminton (B.
26/5/'27), Perth can boast of an association
with a dozen afliliated clubs and two or
three hundred members. Pennant matches,
on the same lines as the Law r n Tennis
Association's, are held, and the annual cham-
pionship meeting in September is attracting
more spectators each year. The Perth associ-
ation lias aliiliated with the English Bad-
minton Association, and aspires to run inter-
national matches some day.
The Nineteenth Hole
“Mere Male”: The onward march of the
woman golfer is heard in every land. The
Vic. Women’s Golf Union has held its first
conference in Melbourne, delegates from 15
clubs attending the tee-off. Cups are to be
offered for competition among members of
country club groups, and only women will
be allowed to take part, so there! The move-
ment may be extended to a club for women
only. A year or so ago a club of this kind
was mooted in England. Not only was mem-
bership to be confined to women, but every-
one connected with the show, from the green-
keeper to the club-house cat, was to be en
suite, so to speak. Nothing has been heard
of the revolutionary departure from that day
to this, and the presumption is that the club
could not fill its membership-book. Man has
his attractions, even as a golfer, though
many ladies will be inclined to argue the point.
* * * *
“Claypan”: Some weeks ago (B.
14/4/'27) I referred to an old grievance of
Western Queensland golfers against the nefa-
rious crow. Now Denman (N.S.W.) reports
that the local crows have acquired the ball-
pinching habit to such an extent that the
Denman club is inviting suggestions for
abating the nuisance. One proposal is that
the caddies should be armed with shotguns.
I recommend the purchase of a small aero-
plane as an auxiliary.
* * * *
“N.H.” : In the lower north of South Aus.
most of the links are “turfed” with coarse
grass, gravel and small boulders ; the “greens”
are fenced-in patches of finely crushed slag
from the Pt. Pirie smelters. The players
are nearly self-taught, and their styles are
unorthodox, to say the least, rising on the
toes on the upward swing being a marked
feature. Yet a lad of 18 from those parts,
who had never played on mown fairways or
turf greens, went around Adelaide’s Mt.
Lofty course recently in five over par. Using
his driver as if he were slashing down mallee
shoots, lie consistently outdrove an Adelaide
crack, and on fast fescue greens holed out
15yd. putts, tapping the ball with his putter
as if it were a croquet mallet. To cap it
all he told the local man that his course
was too easy, because there were no loose
stones on the fairways and the grass greens
made the ball run into the hole of its own
accord. On his home course, he explained,
a loose stone on the fairway was a hazard
which mustn’t be moved, the district rules
stating that a ball must be played without
shifting the rocks; and on slag greens you
had to give the ball a good, satisfying crack
to make it run more than a few feet.
“S. Plug” : “Buffing Spoon” is somewhat in
error in surmising (B. 2/6/’27) that the
scarlet jacket is no longer to be seen. Cross-
ing over the links at Esher, Surrey, in 1924,
I saw, not one or two plus men, but appar-
ently the full strength of the club decked
out in the robin redbreast outfit.
* * * *
“Colonel Damurize”: Isn’t it about time
something was done to curb the activities
of the people who exploit semi-nude young
females in alleged beauty competitions. Por-
traits of these flappers have been shown at
pony racecourses, and they themselves have
been obtruded at professional football matches
and other publicity-catching events. That is
their own funeral, of course, but when it
comes to invading golf courses, the time has
arrived for protest. The other day I was
aghast to see a press photograph of a bevy
of these voung persons on a putting green
at one of the Sydney clubs. They were
actually pirouetting about the sacred turf in
high-heeled shoes! What the unhappy green-
keeper thought the recording angel only
knows, but as I didn’t see him in the photo-
graph, I conclude he was having it out with
his soul in some deep and remote bunker.
Old Tom Morris once resigned his job as cus-
todian of St. Andrews because a member with
a wooden leg was elected to the club. He
was a most distinguished soldier, but that
did not prevent the committee cancelling his
election and raising Old Tom’s salary-—an un-
precedented happening, then, in a Scottish
club of any description.
(Continued on page •££.)


The New Reinforced Breech
34-in. Barrel.
Cartridges
AUSTRALIA, more than any other country in the world, requires a gun strong- in the breech,
because our varying temperatures generate such high pressures in Explosives. Having
a long experience of sporting conditions here, we*have all our Guns made to suit those requirements,
and the latest addition to S Special 1 1/ Made. Mod fix is the long- distance Reinforced ttreeeh Single
Barrelled Gun. It has full choke, finely-bored 34i:i. steel barrel, snap fore-end top lever, automatic
ejector, half-pistol grip. Weight 711). Goz.
Price 75/-. Also 36in., 80/-
Postage 4/- all over Australia.
318 LITTLE COLLINS STREET,
MELBOURNE.
Va
PTV. LTD,
Visitors to Brisbane! Book up at the
HOTEL CECIL
(FIRST CLASS)
Reasonable Tariff—Good Position.
The Martin Ditcher
Makes new ditches and' cleans
out old ones; cuts firebreaks,
grades roads, etc.
Challis House, Martin Place, Sy'ney.
499 Little Collins Street, Melbourne.
Exton House, Queen Street, Brisbane.
T. T. Buildings, Light Square, Adelaide.
Queen Street, Perth.
miss
The Martin Ditcher
Cuts a Mile a Day of
Three-foot Ditch
cs.b.-)
J rein bier”: Tasmania, which regards the
mainland tourist as one of its assets, has
made noticeable alterations in its method of
licensing the cars of visitors. Hitherto any-
one taking a car to the Speck—and hundreds
do so every season—has had to go through
the wearisome ritual of the local police-
stations. Now licenses can be obtained at
tile 1 asmanian Government’s Melbourne and
Sydney tourist bureaux. No special number
plates will be required, and no cash deposits,
provided the car is registered in an Aus-
tralian State. For unregistered cars, a
gummed disc showing the initials of the
State_ from which the car comes and an
identification number will be issued. Where
cars are registered in Sydney or Melbourne,
application forms and duplicates of certifi-
cates will be forwarded to Tassy for identifi-
cation purposes.
"Geebung” : Long-distance tours by motor-
cycle are no longer a novelty. One world
trip has already been accomplished, and two
others are in progress: one of the parties,
( athrick and Casley, who use B.S.A. out-
fits, are now in Australia. The lightness of
the two-wheeler and the fact that it may be
dismantled and carried over difficult crossings
are points in its favor for long-distance work,
as ‘'Bound Australia” Grady showed in his
memorable Douglas tour.
. “Toe-clip” : Maori laud’s northern segment
is such a complicated mass of mountains and
rivers that road-racing cyclists, even in the
palmiest days of the sport, didn’t attempt to
do many John Gilpin stunts over its fast-
nesses. Hence there was amazement in the
capital the other morning when a young man
named A. 0. Sutherland—no relation 10
George, who gave up riding 20 years ago-
arrived all wet and muddy and said he’d
ridden from Auckland in 72 hours, 5” of
which he spent pushing pedals round. The
distance is about 600 miles by the route
Sutherland took, and as it was raining hard
most of tin' time it wasn’t a pleasant voyage.
The record, such as it is, is likely to stand.
“Henare : Maoriland motorists are dis-
cussing the Government’s proposal for a
petrol tax of cld. a gallon to pay for the
maintenance of country roads. The tax M ill
produce about half a million a year, and
will be added to about. £200,000 of motor-
tyre duties (earmarked for road purposes)
and £400,000 derived from license fees, the
total amounting to about a third of the
annual expenditure on country roads. In
HARRY SUNDERLAND, a Queensland
journalist, who is hon. sec. of the
Queensland Rugby League and its dele-
gate to the League Board of Control.
He is a notable sports organiser withal.
addition motorists pay over a million a year
in customs duties on their chariots, and they
feel that, they are victims to the tlieoi-y that
if there weren’t any motorists there wouldn’t
have to he any roads. As against.that they
have the satisfaction of knowing that the
roads arc good, and that the man on the,
land, especially in the remote spots, is being
helped quite a lot.
* * * *
“Relax”: “(lurry*’ (11. 30/6/’2T): has
things rather mixed. The car Malcolm Ellis
and Birtles are driving from London to Mel-
bourne is not a Bean but an Imperial Six;
it was designed by 11. Kerr Thomas, who
was responsible for the tie.sign of the Fierce-
Arrow truck that rendered such signal ser-
vice in France. Kerr* Thomas is in his
second year of presidency of the Institute
of Automobile Engineers—-no mean honor.
The Imperial Six was built by arrangement
with Sir Robert Had Held. Incidentally, it
is no secret in commercial circles that Hail-
fields, Ltd. (England), have parted brass
rags with Hadfields (Aust.), Ltd., of Alex-
andria, N.S.W.
“Trans" : A. J. Dunkerley and a mate,
li. Minion, have motored 3380 miles from
Darwin to Melbourne, via N.-W. Queensland,
in 7 days 16 hours and 34 minutes, beating
Birtles’s achievement by 20 hours 23 min-
utes. The endurance of the pair was a
feature of the trip, for they stopped only
once a day for a meal, and one drove while
the other slept. A spill over a 20ft. embank-
ment was one of the results of night driving,
but neither car nor men suffered serious
injury.
Miscellaneous
“Wilga”: Playing in a match on Bund“-
mar station near Trangie (N.S.W.), Jack
Gregory dismissed an abo. for a duck with
one that travelled like lightning. "Fast ball
that, Jacky,” said a spectator, as the victim
reached the shade of a mulga shed. “That
wasn’t a ball,” Jacky replied. "Blurry bomb
that was.”
“Hotham”: A Melbourne junior cricket
team has awakened to find itself famous.
Last season, with nine wickets down, it
needed one run to win its competition. When
a dreaded fast bowler was about to begin his
long run the two rabbits decided that the
time was ripe for theirs, and crossed safely.
A small thing, but one that set rule experts
by the ears. Ernie Bean, who is holidaying
in London, has told an interviewer that the
secretary of the Marylebonc 0.0. showed him
a pile of hundreds of letters asking for a
definite ruling on the case ; they came from
Australia, Canada, India, Malaya, South
Africa, North and South Amerikee and
pretty well everywhere in between. Bean
has had to write to the secretary of the
Junior Association in Melbourne for a full
statement of the facts before the M. 0.0.
can pronounce judgment.
“Slide”: The success of the Perth Uni-
versity in its first race for the Oxford and
Cambridge Cup has met with a warm
response from Wcstralian sportsmen. On
the ’Varsity crew’s return to Perth, the men
who had subscribed the money to send them
across Australia gave them a dinner. At
this two new eights were promised (the
boys had to borrow their boat), and a com-
mittee was formed to raise capital to equip
boatsheds for the Uni. club. A fine piece of
work, but why not go a step further and
collect the wherewithal to send the victorious
State eight to the 192 S Olympiad? The
Australian Rowing Council lias jibbed at
despatching a crew to Amsterdam on its own
account, but it could not refuse its endorse-
ment to a Westralian crew if Westralia sup-
plied the funds, as South Aus. did in 1924.
: i' : I : ♦
“Slide”: The highbrows of English rowing-
stopped a nasty one when Thames beat Lean-
dcr in the Graud Challenge Cup at Henley.
Leander club, composed of University rowing
Blues, is strong on the traditional straight
back and rigid arms at the catch, with body-
swing and log-drive to follow. Thames,
coached by Steve Fairbairn, of Victoria, him-
self a Cambridge oar of renown, favors the
Victorian’s heresy of a crouching catch with
bent arms, a shorter reach forward and a
quicker stroke, with arm power reinforcing
the body-swing. Another of Fairbairn’s crews
won the Stewards’ Challenge Fours. The
manner in which the new rowing cult is
spreading has cast a deep gloom over Univer-
sity and other exclusive rowing circles, a
gloom which has been intensified by the fact
that the originator of it was warmed, so to
speak, in their own bosoms,
“Shrewsbury”: English rowing traditions
received another shock when two women
eight-oar crews, in heavy outriggers, raced
over the famous course from Putney to Mort-
lake, the most punishing of its kind in the
world. Though the water was choppy, the
Weybridge girls, who won, did the 4| miles
in 26min. 57sec. —not much behind the
Oxford and Cambridge “worst” in 1877.
when the Dark and Light Blues dead-lieated
in 24min. Bsec. The silk-stockinged crews
finished “comparatively fresh,” Weybridge
beating the Ace flappers by five lengths.
“Altcar” : The crowd at Epping (N.S.W.)
racecourse on Saturday night to watch the
greyhounds racing after the mechanical hare
ami, if possible, pick up some spending sil-
ver is reckoned at 25,000. Many of them
got in without paying, for the pressure of
“sports” was such that the gates gave way.
Some of the “long dogs” have already grown
cunning, and are cutting the curves in pur-
suit of puss, to the detriment of those con-
scientious hounds that stick to the track
proper. However, it will take more than
that to chill enthusiasm for the new gamble,
and the proprietors of motor-tracks and
boxing-halls are gloomily wondering what
they are going to do about it.
“Billy th’ Goose”; I see th' kids wot was
runnin’ th’ goats at th’ last Bocky show in
th’ city o’ sin, sweat an’ sorrer which is
bunged down on th’ Fltzroy River in Central
Queensland ’as gone sour on th’ management.
Th’ trouble started w’en a retirin' dame ’oo,
I unnerstan’, does a bit in th’ song-an’-dance
line (Melba she calls ’erself) gives three
guineas for a Goat Derby. Tli’ stooards,
o’ course, couldn’t come up t’ that, an’ I'm
not serprised t’ ’ear, w’en th’ winner o’ th'
Bogantungan ’Andicap was orfered a knife
an’ a bag o’ marbles f’r ’ees win. ’e turned
it down an’ pulled all ’ees goats outer th’
programme. Wunnerful w’at a swelled ’cad
a good win’ll start. I’m thinkin' o’ Charley
J. P. GALBRAITH, Secretary of the N.S.W.
Greyhound Coursing Association, which
introduced the mechanical hare.
tli’ Snort. ’E ’ad a good prad wot ’ad won
a lot o’ races on th' Maranoa, an’ took it
down t’ Brisbin. ’E won a useful ’andicap
down there—Charley was very careless
about fillin’ in ’ces performance papers—an’
’e come back to Th’ Bridge rampin'. First
thing we knoo ’e ’ad a bush-shed built an’
fenced orf for th’ stooards’ enclosure. Then,
w’cn th’ annual meetin’ come on, ’e fixed it
for th’ barmaid at th’ Swagman’s Arms t’
’ang a blue ribbon rovin’ th' neck o’ th’
winner o’ tlr Bridge Derby. ’E brought that
orf 0.k., an’ then 'e takes the goat down
t’ Brisbin agin to rook th’ town mugs. “Good-
bye,’' ’e says; “I’ll come back in me car.”
Ten days or so later, l gets a wire at Roma
w’ere I was runnin’ th’ shells. “Billy,” it
says, “f’r Gorsakc send me th' price o’ me
board, a suit o’ close, me fare back an’ boots.
These coves ’ave on’y left me me ’at an’
socks.” No; I’ve bin in tli’ game a long
time ; it don’t do t’ get too ’igh-stummicked.
“Centurion”; The English amateur ath-
letic championships at Stamford Bridge were
remarkable for the success of German com-
petitors. Kornig won the 100 in 10 l-10sec.,
with Ilouben (a one-time opponent of our
own “Slip” Carr) second and Hodge, an
Englishman, third. The placings suggest that
England has not found a sprinting successor
to H. M. Abrahams. Ilouben took the 220
in 21 4-ssec.. and Dobermann annexed the
long jump with 23ft. llfin., beating Svenson,
a Swede, by an inch and Peters, a Hollander,
by an inch and a quarter—a close go! Dr.
Homier, sometime of Sydney Uni., was one
of the unplaced lot. D. G. A. Lowe, of Eng-
land, won the quarter- and half-mile events,
the first in 48 4-ssec. and the second in lmin.
54 3-ssec. Dr. Peltzer, who beat him last
year, did not compete. Ellis won a good mile
for England in 4miu. 17sec., and F. It. Gaby's
120yds. hurdles in 14 9-10 sec. was also first-
class. The 440 (3ft.) hurdles provided the
day’s sensation, for Lord Burghley, the Cam-
bridge flyer, was first home in 54 l-ssec.,
equalling the world’s record for the event
put up in 1920 by .1. iv. Norton, of the U.S.A.
.“Briiloon”: The South Aus. Polo Associa-
tion intends to move for the establishment
of a Federal governing body when the inter-
state polo meeting is held in Adelaide.
Among the reasons prompting the move is a
suggestion from the Hurlingham club, which
controls English polo, that an Australian
team should visit England to compete for
the Empire Cup, given by the Prince of
Wales. The absence of a central govern-
ing body has made it difficult to come to
any decision on the question. South Austra-
lia has consequently circularised the State
associations. The Queensland body is the
first to approve of the formation of a Federal
executive and is prepared to appoint a dele-
gate.
Business, Robbery, etc.
“Coot”: Ballarat Water Trust Commis-
sion has a forestry nest-egg. When the pines
round its water reserve have matured there
will be enough timber to pay off the Com-
mission’s debt of £30,000.
“0.P.H.”: Chief Sec. Prendergast won’t
allow any open season this year for ’possums
in Vic. Last year royalties on pelts and
license fees for an open season of two
months yielded £30,000. There must have
been some ruthless trapping and poisoning.
“F.S.”: According to a cable, Germany
has placed orders for two 46,000-ton passen-
ger steamers, with which it intends to re-
capture the blue ribbon of the Atlantic. It
may succeed. Its submarines did their best
to put all rivals off the route.
“T.W.”: I nominate the old windmill near
Warrion (Vic.) as the biggest in Australia.
It was erected by a squatter named Robert-
son over 50 years ago. The wheel is 29
feet in diameter, and the mill pumps water
for irrigation.
“Hi Makai": "Ring Bolt” (B. 9/G/’27)
credits Und.y and Jager with the discovery
of a method of welding copper, a process
which he describes as a lost art. Essig and
Koenig (1909 edition) mention quite casu-
ally that copper can be welded, so I suppose
the gentlemen with names suggestive of whi-
ter woollens have only discovered a new
method.
“Ci-git”: Scotland stands where she did,
but Aberdeen granite is slipping A flood
of cheap German tombstones has hit the
industry hard, and the Aberdonians are de-
manding that tombstones shall be placed
under the Safeguarding of Essential Indus-
tries Act, which is Britain’s method of
imposing high Protection duties while affably
professing Free trade principles.
“Clerk”: Vic. Railway Commissioner
Clapp likes the lay-by holiday notion of the
State Savings Bank. The bank pays 4 p.c.
interest on deposits which are swollen every
pay day and withdrawn when the holiday
season arrives. Five shillings a week for
a year buys a week’s holiday at Mallacoota;
4s. 6d., a week at Mt. Buffalo National Park;
35., a week at the Gippsland Lakes, Peter-
borough or Port Campbell; 2s. 6d., a week
at Lome or Cowes; and 25.,' a week at
Daylesford, Warburton or Marysville.
“Hermes”: Sydney's G.P.O. will have a
traffic problem to cope with when most of the
departments at Central-square p.o. are trans-
ferred to the new quarters in the big office
in Martin-place. Huge tunnels connect the
vaiuous railway platforms at Central Station
with Central-square p. 0., but unless a branch
of the underground railway can be run from
the Town Hall station to the G.P.O. the stuff
will have to go by road. And there are only
two very narrow lanes leading into the
G.P.O. to take the traffic.
“Austra” : The “Made - in - Australia”
Council of Melbourne, which has been four
years in existence, reports cheerily about its
latest year. It has a good selection of films
illustrating Australian industries, and has
given these a good run in Vic. towns and
the Melb, suburbs, and it has been able to
get a lot of free publicity for its aims by
circulating booklets and showcards. The Post
Office has been induced to use a “Buy Aus-
tralian-made” slogan on its cancelling
machines at intervals. Shopping weeks have
been arranged in various towns and the
result has been good.
“Roma St.”; Queensland Railway Dept,
is chuckling over Lie folly of a Stanthorpe
resident who consigned a case of what he
described as “mixed fruit,” thereby getting
a special cheap freight rate. Not being
called for, the “fruit” was auctioned; _it
turned out to he clothing and crockery with
a layer of apples at top and bottom. Fines,
costs and extra freight charges ran into
well over £2O. The consignment wouldn’t
have realised more than 405.. and the saving
in freight, had the scheme gone through, was
a matter of 10s.
“Werrimec”: The vogue for snake and
goannarskin shoes, belts and bags, iif it
lasts, should greatly improve the reptile
industry in Australia. Many in Queensland,
including two women experts, describe their
occupation as snake-catchers, and with
skins at ss. each there is a good living for
the energetic. Long ago Professor Fox
established a snake farm at Botany, and
did pretty well out of it selling venom and
pets. Fox had to feed his swarm, and pro-
vide pens and ponds for those that he . re-
gularly milked. His 700 snakes required
45 dozen frogs a day, so he had to run a
frog farm as well to supply them. But
the venom was worth up to £270 an ounce,
and live snakes from ss. to £5 apiece.


\U\\
J,
li/llnli
-W
Uj
%
79
ft
‘ 1
2tH
«
r
\
s
\
55
• \
\*\«
\
$
w
Hi [A
P«2\€
wmmm/s/m
u/
/&=S=£i=4/\
Tfpa
HILLS
mi
WUJ
=£
s i
IU
i//*4
Sydney’s
Room Must be Made for the Huge Extension.
Stocks are Being Ruthlessly Cut in Price to Clear!
Foremost Money-Saving Event!
t#*r
'JZ.
tuffs
Wmm
mm
m
&«3
-v'
HI
mm
EXTRAORDINARY OFFER OF
Men’s Soft Felt
Hats
Men’s Pure Fur Felt Hats of excellent quality.
Every popular shape featured—“ Snap Brim,”
also “Nail Curl” or “Prince” styles. Smart
shades of Light, Mid or Dark Grey, Black.
Brown, Myrtle or new Fawn. All regular sizes.
Usually 19/6.
SALE PRICE
13/6
Another Bargain!
JpTNF, quality English-made Fur Felt Hats, smart
‘•'Prince" and “Snap Brim” styles. Shades, Fawn,
Light Grey, Beaver and the new Wine shade. All sizes.
Usually 307-
SALE PRICE
21/-
Men’s Tweed Overcoats
“Prince” style Overcoats, warm, comfortable and
distinctive. Fashionable Pure-wool, Dark Grey
Tweeds. Half-belt at back, etc. All sizes. Beady for
instant use.
Usually 84 / -
SALE PRICE
67/6
Men’s Trousers
Napp Trousers. A material selected for hard
wear. Murdoch-made to highest standard with
Side or Cross and Hip Pockets. Plain bottoms. Ser-
viceable shades.
Usually 16/6.
SALE PRICE
139
Men’s Coat Sweaters
J7XTRA fine quality Pure Wool Coat Sweaters for men.
Perfectly knitted by knitted-wear specialists in
smartest fancy colored designs. V front style, two
pockets. Sizes, S. Men’s, Men’s and O.S.
Usually 27/6 to 32/6.
SALE PRICE
19/11
Bargains More Remarkable
Than Ever.
Be
Measured
Now!
and Secure
a
NT's
a
#)
i
f
t
A £7/7/- Pure Wool
Worsted or Serge Suit
fo "“C
TO MEASURE
NO Tailoring offer ever stirred public interest to a greater extent
than this. PURE WOOL WORSTED SUITINGS—aII the most
fashionable Greys, Browns, Fawns, Navy, new Powder Blues
and Dove Greys are featured. Also ALL-WOOL FINE TWILL
SERGES, Herringbone or Dice Check weaves, guaranteed pure indigo
dye. A stylish and faultlessly-tailored S.B. Sac Suit.
SALE-PRICE £5/14 9 To Measure
Double-breasted Style 5/- extra.
All Tailoring Reduced In Price!
Send
This
Coupon
For
FREE
PATTERNS
Desk R,
Murdoch’s in Park Street, Ltd., Sydney.
Dear Sirs, —Without any obligation to me, please
send, free of all cost, a complete range of Suiting
Patterns at Sale Prices. Also free measurement outfit.
NAME '
ADDRESS
July 7, 1927.
,v»
m
A Supreme Shirt
250 Doz. marked for quick clearance! Stock
comprises exceptional wearing English Mercer-
ised and Repp Poplin Golf Shirts in new
colored stripe effects on light Cream ground.
Collar to match. Sizes, 134 to 16 only.
Usually 7/6 and 8/6.
SALE PRICE
4/9
Men’s Pyjamas
I OOK at this —a surplus stock of Hen’s Winterweight
1 Flannelette Pyjamas of cosy-warm finish. Excep-
tional wearing quality. Colored stripings. All sizes.
Usually 7/11.
SALE PRICE
h
Boy’s Overcoats
DOYS’ and Youths’ Single-breasted “Raglan” Over-
coats, All-wool Blanket Tweeds, unlined, with
vertical pockets and full belt. Dark Grey shades only.
Sizes 9 to 12, Usually 42/6; Sizes 13 to 2, Usually 50/-
Usually 42/6 to 507-
SALE PRICE
35/6
Boys’ Pullovers
\V 70NDERFUL bargain in High-grade Pure Wool Fancy
” Knitted Pullovers for boys. Very latest colored
designs. Flawless workmanship. Sizes 22in to 32in.
Chest, fit boys 3 to 16 years.
Usually 16/6 to 19/6.
SALE PRICE
11(11
POSTAGE PAID TO YOUR DOOR.
Orders at these
prices must be
received not
later than first
post July 18.
IN PARK ST., LTD., SYDNEY,
‘The World’s Largest Men’s and Boys’ Wear Store.”
When Writing
kindly address
your letter to
DESK R.


Under
Royal
Warrant-
Vintage 1917.
To H.M.
KinsS
George V
CHAMPAGNE
ChariesHeidsieck
wras .
Australasian Agents—
Swift & Company Limited
SYDNEY.
Champagne
'^ariesllcidsie<>
Reims
(yj
PELLISSON
Cognac Brandy.
lO YEARS OLD.
Australasian Agrerts—
SWIFT & COMPANY LIMITED, Sydney.
A
■n
THE WENTWORTH
CHURCH HILL.
Sydney’s Most Noteworthy Hotel.
JN the midst of the city, but sufficiently removed
from the racket to provide ideal accommoda-
tim for the traveller in search of the perfect
hospitality.
Steam-heated in Winter. Air-cooled in Summer.
Rooms with or without Baths, or with Sitting-
rooms en suit.:.
THE DELIGHTFUL WENTWORTH CAFE
is Sydney’s most magnificent Ballroom, and the
Social Rendezvous of Smart People.
All Reservations may be made by Ringing 8W1361.
ms
in
SYDNEY.
The Finest Restaurant and Dance
Re: dezvous in Australasia.
PATRONAGE CONTINUALLY INCREASING.
Capacity: Dining and Supper Dances up to 1000.
l-'or Wedding Receptions, Banquets, Dining and
Supper Dances, inquiries to Manager.
Mon., Tues., Wed., Fri., Special Dining, 7.30,
12/6. Suppers 10 p.m., 7/6. Value and satis-
faction without equal. No charge for three
hours’ dancing on satin-smooth spring floors —
a new thrill of real delight.
Thurs. and Sat. Late Gala Nights. Continental
Dinner from 7.30, 21/-. Suppers, 10 p.m., 12/6.
This evening in London costs £2/2/- upwards.
PEERLESS ORCHESTRA OP TEN.
Bewitching Cabaret, afternoons and evenings.
Delightful Afternoon Teas. 3.30 to 5.30, 51-
Parties of 6 upwards, 4/6; 12 upwards, 4/-
Two hours’ entertainment of sheer delight.
Order Wines before 6 p.m. Ring M. 3666.
A WOMAN'S
LETTER
SAY
Kayser
SLIPPER HEEL
[?]
STOCKINGS
Zimbalist and Alma Gluck got tlie glad hand
ot the Musical Association at Farmer’s one
night last week, with president Frank Hut-
chens to lead the welcome. There is some-
thing very boyish about the violinist, despite
lus heavy shoulders and plenitude of jaw.
His English was halting and labored when
he voiced his thanks and, like Kreisler,
spoke of the service of music in cementing
the brotherhood of man. But Madame
] troved no groper for English words, and if
her singing voice excels the beauty of her
speaking organ it is nothing short of a.
crime to allow her to depart without hear-
ing her sing.
The amiability of the pair made them easy
prey for autograph-hunters. They scrib-
bled—with smiles—until all the ever-sharps
wanted refills. The soprano’s bright, dark
eyes lighted on tall May Moore’s thick
golden plaits. “Oh, your lovely hair! "You
have had the courage to keep it! But how
ever do you marfage to get hats to fit you?”.
“I just wear my old ones,” said the photo-
grapher, who wore a wonderful shawl that
recalled Sydney Harbor at night. Mrs. Frank
Garrick, draping a jacaranda-blue shawl over
her black crystalled gown, and Mrs. Victor
Oonrick, sparkling with silver bugles on
ivory satin, were notably handsome rhatrons.
Before the coffee and speeches Bessie Cole-
man and Dorothy Gibbes played the Bach-
Burmeister Fantafsio and Fugue on two pianos,
and it was just as formidable a bit of work
as it looks written; Myrtle Meggy joined
Gerald Walenn, violinist, and Gladstone Bell,
’cellist, in Arensky’s trio.
After meeting Zimbalist socially it was
a bit of a shock to see him on the platform.
One’s first impression had been his boyish-
ness, but on the stage he looked nervous
and careworn. As he played, though, and
especially as the audience warmed to his
work, the lines seemed to get ironed away
from his face and the years dropped off.
It seemed on Saturday night as if he was
feeling the pulse of his audience—an audi-
ence big enough to wreathe the faces of the
management with smiles. And the audience
sensed that it was being weighed, until the
magic of his melody established the sym-
pathy the violinist was seeking. His wife
was at the Town Hall during the perform-
ance, but stayed in the dressing-room during
t he whole of the concert.
, The usual crowd of well-known musi-
cians had a liberal sprinkling of folk not
usually prominent at concert opening nights.
The sumptuous fur coats of some of the
audience warmed the atmosphere for those
who could only afford wool. Ernest Watt,
who has a financial stake in Concert Tours,
brought a slim, golden-haired daughter in
a dream of a silver coat. Mrs. Herbert Marks
kept the chill out with soft chinchilla furs.
Mrs. Sep. Levy matched her wonderful hair
with a wdiite Arctic lox shoulder wrap over
her black velvet upholstery. Mr. and Mrs.
Frank Garrick were with Mrs. Jack Ryan
and her daughter Sheila, who has grown the
image of her aunt, singer Marie Narelle.
Mrs. Rabbi Cohen, Mrs. Pat Baulman—she
was pianist Alicia Nolan —Mrs. Herrick
Knowles, Mrs. Ernest Woodgate, artist Thea
Proctor, Mme. do Meuralt, pianist Hugh
McMenamin and his two sisters were among
the many who enjoyed the melodious feast. '
The Movie Ball brought along such a
crowd that the roomy Palais actually looked
overcrowded; and lads and lasses who had
agreed to meet at certain spots never caught
a glimpse of each other all night. It wasn’t
much of a night for dancing. Would-be
movie stars and devoted admirers of silver-
sheet heroes and heroines paraded the floor
hoping to be taaen for embryo stars and be
snatched up by the movie magnates who
watched the cavorting crowd of mimickers,
and a number of children pranced about re-
presenting screen child-celebrities and might
much better have been in bed. Occasionally
by getting a leg-up on a loge fence one caught
a glimpse of the spectacular sets and the cos-
tume parades which occupied much more time
than dancing. The grim reminder of our
worst old days, “For the Term of His Natu-
ral Life,” carried off the award for the best
representation of a movie picture, but Eva
Novak was not in it. She danced, when she
got a chance, in a beaded powder-blue frock
tied demurely round the waist with silver
ribbons. The wife of the Wembley knight,
\ ictor Wilson, who now has a job in the
picture world, was robed in gold lame cov-
ered with green lace; she brought along her
pretty girls, Audrey, gleaming in ivory and
silver, and Joy, youthful in pink. Mrs.
Stuart Doyle made a lovely toilet-table orna-
ment by wearing a pompadour dress and
covering her blonde hair with a white wig.
After the wearying midnight hour some of
the party got rather out of hand, and it is
even said that the morning cleaners found a
sleeping beauty and sent for the police to
revive her. However, a fat cheque for charity
will come out of the frivol—or whatever it
was—and, incidentally, the police have an-
nounced that it is. an offence to carry a hip-
flask into any licensed dance-hall.
The Governor and Lady de Chair were at
Lewisham Hospital Ball on Friday night
and brought Elaine with them. Nearly
a thousand danced in the Palais, doctors
being so plentiful that one wondered who
was looking after the sick. Lovely Radiance
roses and poppies decorating the vice-regal
loge made a bright setting for Lady de
Chair’s handsome silver lamd gown draped
with black mignon ; her gems were pearls.
Elaine looked winsome in plumbago-blue
crystal-beaded georgette; president Mrs. Her-
bert Marks relieved the all-black of her gown
with ropes of pearls; Mark Sheldon’s lady
lifted hers from darkness with silver em-
broideries ; Austin Chapman's widow wore
black marocain unadorned ; Mayoress Mostyn
just scintillated with crystals, and her pres-
ence was rewarded with a posy of pansies;
treasurer Mrs. McPliee flew tender pink
dressings; Miss Kate Egan was moonlit with
sequins; secretary Mrs. Daly was mauve
frocked, while sister-secretary Claire Porter
chose pale green; Mrs. Witton Flynn, an-
other treasurer, had black velvet bandings
and a gleam of diamente on her white
taffetas frock.
The University has celebrated its seventy-
fifth anniversary and, as universities go, one
might say it has passed its childhood, and
so it is out for a man-sized patrimony. It
wants a quarter of a million to begin with,
and Chancellor Cullen will launch an appeal
Sicard’s design for a fountain to be erected in the Sydney Botanic Gardens.
The design having been approved of by the consulting artists, the Perpetual
Trustees Co., Sydney, the executor of. the late J. F. Archibald’s will, has
authorised the sculptor to proceed with it as a memorial to one of the
Founders and former Editor of The Bulletin.
with that modest sum in view from the Town
Hall to-morrow at noon. The Governor and
Lady de Chair will support him with their
presence. The Fairfaxes have given £lO,OOO
for a start, and the University Dramatic
Society will present “As You Like It” —in
modern costume, if you please—at the Con-
servatorium to-morrow night to put a few
more pence in the hat.
Lady Poynter, quite recovered from her
recent illness, and looking much better for
her rest, attended the Lyceum Club and
talked about “the five Macdonald sisters.”
As it was mentioned lately in this Letter,
her husband is the son of one of them. Rud-
yard Kipling being the son of another, Lady
Poynter read some poems of his, written
when he was a schoolboy of 14, from a
privately-printed volume, a copy of which
brought £l5OO in America recently.
“Come along and meet 'each other” —
the invitation card did not exactly say that,
but it is what the members of the Women’s
Country Club meant when it asked all the
Consuls of Sydney and a few others to the
club-rooms on Friday night. Most of the
Consuls turned up and seemed to enjoy
dancing beneath lights so swathed in thick
gold and blue crinkled paper that the pretty
frocking of the ladies was lost in the dance-
room. President Mrs. Herring and her tall
Brigadier welcomed the guests, and brought
along daughter Diana, a modest little sub-
deb. in a pretty rose-pink frock with a big
velvet flower nestling on her shoulder. Bel-
gium’s Consul-General Segaert danced assi-
duously ; men were a minority and many of
the ladies jazzed together. Mrs. Segaert
wore a handsome black frock with the Scotch
thistle beautifully embroidered around the
skirt in gold beads. Dr. Anderson, of the
Museum, was with his tall wife, who was
one of the hostesses; she girdled a black
gown with diamente. Japanese Vice-Consul
ivishi wore Harold Lloyd glasses, and was
accompanied by a slim wife who towered
over him. The vice-president of the Chinese
Chamber of Commerce, Mr. Liu, was accom-
panied by his wife, demurely dressed in
black with a beautifully-embroidered shawl;
they looked more like a pair of Spanish
grandees than Orientals. Mrs. George
Aurrousseau was the smartest gowner in a
New York creation of orchid-pink chiffon,
silver sequined. Supper was a gay inter-
lude, with gay jazz-caps for the dignified
Consuls to don.
One evening last week the Master Build-
ers had the Town Hall merry with old-time
dance music—waltzes, lancers, schottisches,
polkas and the jolly miller kept 700 pairs
of feet from getting cold. There were only
two jazzes—tame things after some of the
other strenuous sets. Very few of the flapper
age were present; but it made the eyes of
them nearly pop out of their heads to see
what a gay time their elders were having.
American citizens celebrated the Glorious
Fourth at the Wentworth on Monday night
with a menu that included Baltimore oysters,
Manhattan shrimps, Duchqss potatoes, Pil-
grim Father tarts and —iced water, though
it didn’t look or taste or smell a bit like it.
One visitor from the States who entertained
a party apologised for not having any
flowers. Food he supposed there had to be,
but apart from that it seemed a pity to him
to spend anything on anything else except
the aforesaid water. Everyone that wasn’t
in the know got a shock at midnight, when
a nerve-screwing moaning arose and ghostly
forms with skeleton, heads began to caper
around the suddenly darkened ball-room. An
engine puffed, a ghost-train dashed across
the stage, then up went the lights and
the ghostly forms changed into a pret-
tily trucked ballet. The American Society’s
president' Don Swain, with his wife, smiling
over silver sequins on a black background,
had in their big company Consul-General
Lawton and Mrs. Lawton, she in white crys-
tal-encrusted georgette. The A. C. Berks,
the Frank Coffees, the Standard Oil Ser-
vices, Automatic Telephones A. A. Burch
and his Titian wife, American Meat Board
Gillies and the ice-cream Peterses were among
the celebrators. For supper in stepped the
“Pompadour,” “Cradle Snatchers” and
“Ghost Train” people.
The death of Mrs. John Blaxland removes
a link with two great pioneer settlers of the
Hunter Valley. Her father was Tremayne
Rodd, and both she and her sister, famous
beauties in their day, married sons of Arthur
Blaxland, who had taken over Fordwych from
his father, Gregory Blaxland. Fordwych was
built in the early years of last century and
there John . Blaxland succeeded his fatlier,
he and his wife making it their home for
more than half a century.
Nancie Hyndes and Strath Dibbs, both of
Mosman, were married at St. Augustine’s,
Neutral Bay, on Saturday night. Silver
lame, pink tulle, and Venetian point lace
built the wedding gown. Mrs. John Hyndes
and Mrs. Cyril Gates, gowned in peach
pink, were in attendance.
It was like a scene from a fairy story
when Nell Leary, a daughter of Henry
Leary, of Willoughby, mounted the stone
stairs of St. John’s to be married in the
beautiful chapel to Dr. Harold Power, of
Brisbane. She, in panniered vellum velvet
gown and voluminous tulle veil, and her
bridesmaids —Eileen Leary in pale blue and
Hilda Power in pale pink made in the same
old-world style—seemed suitably frocked for
the picturesque setting. Dr. Alan Oxenham
and Dr. Cook squired the ’maids. Bride’s
mother received the guests at Lynton, Wool-
lalira, the home of the bride's aunt, Mrs. W.
Merewether.
A I'ranco-Australian alliance was signed
at St. Philip’s when Marie Buckley, of
Stanmore, in a silver lace gown poised on
silver lame, became Mrs. Louis Pirenne.
Nellie Russell, in powder-blue sequinned
trappings, held the bride’s hyacinths and
roses while Gregory Quinn handed the ’groom
the ring. The bride’s parents showed their
approval with a dinner at the Ambassadors.
Pretty little Billie Bloom, of Bellevue Hill,
and Arthur Michael, of the same elevated
suburb, had a date with Rabbi Cohen at the
Synagogue last week. The pink-and-white
bridal frocking was matched with pink-and-
white temple decorations, and the pink-and-
white scheme was carried out at the Bondi
Hotel, too, where the bride’s mamma enter-
tained the wedding host. Enid Abrahams
was bridesmaid, and there were two dear
little train-bearers, Edith Abrahams and
Helena Whitmont. Dick Diamond was next-
best man.
There was a new feature in entertaining
at tin' Musicians’ welcome to Zimbalist —
the reading of the prize essay of a com-
petition instituted this year by the society.
Lawrence Campbell read it. Miss Marjorie
Crane was the winner, with Lesley Reynolds
second and Fred Rogers third.
When the Uni. Hockey Club had its
annual ball in the Union Hall, mammoth
hockey sticks and Chinese lanterns were the
rather quaintly mixed decorations. Most of
the metropolitan hockey clubs were repre-
sented and a graceful compliment was paid
them by decorating their tables in their
clubs’ colors.
A Night of the Garter is the fanciful
title chosen for the next Artists’ Ball —it
has put a paint spot on August 26. The
most important need at present seems to
be to get the artists interested. The Town
Hall will house it.
“Shore” Girls’ Grammar School Old
Girls filled the Wentworth with youth and
beauty on Friday night for their eighth an-
nual ball. Miss Slack, principal; Miss Wil-
kinson, principal of Forbes-street branch, and
Councillor Mrs, R. B. Trindall were tin;
guests of honor.
The glories of electricity were brilliantly
displayed at the Wentworth when the Chief
Electrical Engineer’s staff of the N.S.W..
Government Railways and Tramways gave
a dinner-dance. Golden globes gleamed every-
where among the greenery and a great shield
blazoned with “C.E.E.” made a handsome
central balcony decoration. There were shoul-
der posies at the official table for the lady
guests. Chief Engineer Myers was assisted
in entertaining a large company by his wife,
clad in black and silver.
The Old Boys of Sydney High School had
a happy time at their reunion dance at
the Wentworth. President R. T. McKay,
■with Mrs. McKay in black and gold bro-
caded wrappings, was host, to reps, of other
schools and colleges. The organisers w T ere
out for profit as well as pleasure; the pro-
ceeds are to go towards providing a new
eight for the school champions of the river
and to start a fund for a sports oval handy
to the new school in Moore Park.
Sydney chemists dispensed pleasure, to
themselves and friends at the Ambassadors
when the Pharmaceutical Society held its
annual dance for the building fund. Presi-
dent of the board J. F. McKimm brought
Mrs. McKimm in a black georgette chenille-
embossed gown and dance-president .T. L.
Townley was accompanied by Mrs. Townley
in blue silver-beaded georgette.
Every girl loves a dance on a ship, and
there was a gay gathering on the Malabar,
which Burns Philp lent for their staff’s
annual dance. Trophies won during the
sports season were presented by general man-
ager Noswortliy. Managing-director Burns
just missed this. lie is off by the Aorangi
for another mixed business and pleasure trip
to Europe.
A cot in the Crown-street Women’s Hos-
pital stands to the credit of the Vacuum Oil
Co.’s staff, and to keep it safe for another
year they had a dance at the Wentworth.
The fun was as good as the purpose of it.
For St. Anthony’s Babies’ Home there
was a gay frivol at the Ambassadors on
Monday night. Mayor Mostyn and his
Mayoress were the guests of Dr. and Mrs. .T.
A. Kennedy, the latter being president of the
efficient committee.
Mrs. Osbourne England has been selected
by the Royal Life-Saving Society to be the
agent in augmenting its funds. She already
has a younger-set committee working and a
garden cabaret in the making—with Elaine
de Chair as patroness.
Artist Dattilo-Rubbo is in Molong Private
Hospital, doing well after an operation.
John Sands’s lads and lasses ■will revel at
the Sydney Town Hall on July 22 to cele-
brate the ninetieth anniversary of the birth
of the oldest piinting firm in Australia. The
profits of this ball will go to the Hospital
for Kiddies.


iJARgY BR£)THER^LXD.
HMstiniaettnv® Gifts nia Hardy's
Eiaglislk Craft Crystal
BA. 8419.
Cut Crystal Flower Bowl,
with holder. Height, 4{-
inches; diameter, 8 inches.
£2/18/.
BA. 8447.
Cut Crystal Bowl. For
salads or fruit. Diameter,
i) inches.
£2/10/-
i
. V
Jf r/*
ĥ
T.
BA. 8441.
Out Crystal Vase. Height,
7 inches.
38/-
m
is
mm
BA. 8448.
Set of Six Out Crystal Goblets.
Height, 45 inches. Set of six,
£3/12/-
Extra Goblets can always be
obtained as required.
Five per cent, discount alloived
for cash.
Hardy’s illustrated catalogue
will be sent to any address
post free on request.
BA. 8444.
Cut Crystal Vase. Height,
0 inches.
9/6
298-300
COLLINS ST.,
MELBOURNE
H A R.DY
BROTHERS LTD.
< zJJi£ C J{o)a&c oP&xciusivcZJeweUay
13 HUNTER STREET, SYDNEY.
And at LONDON.
JJ6-H8
QUEEN ST.,
BRISBANE.
HANDY BOOR
of Practical Electricity
DELS
ND¥
OOK
cri
me
’M A
K?y
To A
Practical
Understanding
of ELECTRICITY
INFORMATION in a Handy Form
for quick reference under the headings as shown below. The complete index in the back of the
book tells you quickly on what page to find complete information on the electrical subject in
which you are interested.
PRICE
20/-
Postage
1/-
Extra.
Electro-Therapeutics
Electric Shocks
X-Rays
Welding
Brazing-
Soldering
Heating-
Motion Pictures
RADIO
Radio Hook-ups
Telephone
Telegraph
Electric Bells
Cranes
Elevators
Pumps
Electric Ship Drive
Electric Railways
Electric Vehicles
Automobile Start i lig-
and Lighting Systems
ignition
Generation and Trans-
mission
Electric Tools
Plant Management
Power Station Plans
ARMATDEE WINDING
Armature Repairing-
A. C. Motors
Alternator Construction
Alternators
D. C. Motors
Dynamos
Magnetic Induction
Wiring
Wiring Diagrams
Electric Lighting
Sign Flashers
Cable Splicing
Power Wiring
Underground Wiring
Outside Wiring
Wiring Finished Buildings
Tests
A. C. Apparatus
(Switch Devices)
(Current Limiting)
(.Lightning Protection)
Rectifiers
Converters
Transformers
l'ower Factor
Alternating Currents
D. C. Apparatus
(Switches)
(Fuses)
(Circuit Breakers)
(Rheostats)
(Watt Hour Rules)
Electro Plating
Electrolysis
Storage Batteries
Magnetism
Electrical Energy
Conductors
Insulators
Static Electricity
Dynamic Electricity
Magnetic Electricity
Radio Electricity
Ready Reference
Recent Applications
Index on all subjects
Diagrams, Charts, Illustrations and Easily Read Text make hard jobs easy.
N.S.W. BOOKSTALL CO. LTD
CASTLEREAGH AND MARKET STREETS, SYDNEY.
Sleeplessness
"My mind and strength are much
improved since I took Sanatogen
and my sleep is 50% better,”
writes Mr. John Burroughs, the famous
naturalist and author.
Conquer your sleeplessness by strength'
ening your nerves with Sanatogen.
Sanatogen provides your nerve-cells with
exactly that element—phosphorus—which
is wanted to build up New Strength.
Invest 3/9 in good health and sound
sleep. It’s worth while.
sanatogen
The True Tonic-Food
GENATOSAN LIMITED. LOUGHBOROUGH. ENGLAND.
r
‘NATIONAL BANK
Z/mifec/
CAPITAL PAID UP £a, 687 885
Reserve Fund J° ?_. 775,154
;A fAe u3us/bess
Total Ctssets in, 19/2 =7?15, 017, 282
' ' '192? Jt 42,909,726
The Bank is widely represented directly and by
Agents throughout the country districts of Australia,
and has Offices in all the Capital Cities*
Its large capital and deposit resources place it in a
position to assist the development of the various
industries of the Commonwealth. In rural areas the
great bulk of its business is connected with the farming
and grazing interests*
Full facilities are provided, for the transaction of
a! local and overseas banking business. ip
Registered Truou-iuai
BRITISH
SCISSORS of
HIGH QUALITY.
SOLID STEEL. A LIFETIME’S WEAR.
Representatives :
NORMAN BAKER & LONGHURST, LTD.,
Sydney, Melbourne, and Wellington, N.Z.
No. 1369.
CHRISTOPHER JOHNSON & CO., Sheffield,
FLAG BRAND CUTLERY. England.


A. SAUNDERS’
English
m
A. Saunders’ English Out Glass Water Set, with Jug
and Six Tumblers, 75/-
Larger Size, 84/-
* SHlj.j,
Va
A. Saunders’ English Cut Glass Fruit
Bowl. Three Sizes, 25/-, iiO/-,
40/-
|E»a eg
A. Saunders’ English Cut Glass
Rose Bowl, Two Sizes, 60/-,
70/-
A. Saunders’
English Cut Glass
Flower Vase, Two
Sizes, 15/6,
20/-
Cut Glass
A. Saunders’ English Cut
Glass Decanter, £2.
u3sccxss&
A. Saunders’ English Cut Glass Float Bowl,
Two Sizes, 30/-, 35/-
WRITE FOR ILLUSTRATED PRICE LIST.
A, SAUNDERS,
W atcli maker—J e well er—O pt i c ian,
805-813 GEORGE STREET (opposite Railway Station), SYDNEY.
Golf, Tennis, Polo
and Racing
Trophies
.
HEIGHT, NOT INCLUDING PLINTHS AND HANDLES.
4ijin. s£in. 6£in. 7|in. B£in. 9^ln.
£2/10/- £3 £5
£7 £9 £l2
Special Value Sterling Silver Cups
Drummonds have the finest selection of Sterling Silver Cups
in the Commonwealth, at prices ranging from 20/-. The stocks
are constantly augmented with new designs from London s
foremost silversmiths. Customers ordering by mail are
guaranteed the same satisfaction as personal selection in the
showrooms. PRICES STRICTLY NET.
Wm. Drummond & Co.
344-346 COLLINS STREET - - - MELBOURNE.
ħ
in
for Accuracy
and beauty
BY reason of their accuracy
and unfailing reliability,
ELGIN Watches are se-
lected whenever exactitude is a
first necessity.
By reason of their slender grace
and beauty of design ELGIN
Watches are chosen whenever
a perfect and enduring gift is
desired to express sentiments
of friendship and love.
Thus an ELGIN awakens a
sense of certainty equally with
a true pride of possession.
OBTAINABLE FROM ALL LEADING JEWELLERS
THIS TRADE MARK
IN THE WATCH CASE
WJNO.BAKER
SHUHTEftST
S.VS&I
m
% , m
a^^apji
W. Jno. Baker,
3 Hunter St.,
Sydney.
184 BAKER’S SI X.
Specially designed for
use among stock. Six
Blades, Finest Quality
and' Finish, Stag Haft.
Size 31in. (as illustra-
tion), 19/0; larger size,
4in. Haft, 22/6 each.
POST FREE for Cash
With Order.
Name engraved, 1/-
If any illustration in "THE BULLETIN” takes your fancy, write
to the MANAGER, who will quote you price for the original.
titY* ' 6 H P 6 -Cy/,-
'CC'® SUNBEAM
A WONDERFUL specification at a moderate price. A powerful
smooth-running engine. Four speed, right-hand, gate-change
gear-box. Smooth operating four wheel brakes. A chassis
designed for strength without an ounce of superfluous weight. Long,
cantilever rear springs with shock absorbers for the maximum of
comfort. Coachwork roomy, comfortable and exclusive in the refine-
ment of its line. Specially constructed for arduous conditions, having
a minimum ground clearance of 10 inches.
Radiator designed with sufficient capacity and a fan to ensure efficient
cooling in tropical heat. Write for full part.culars to: —
AUTHORISED DEALERS.
THE ALL BRITISH MOTOR CO. PTY., LTD., 111-113 Russell Street, Melbourne.
WILLIAMS, HILL & CAMERON, LTD., 205-207 Castlereagh Street, Sydney.
AUSTRAL MOTORS, LTD., Corner Hay and Pier Streets, Perth; and Queen Victoria
Street, Fremantle.
RASCH MOTORS, LTD., 69 Waymouth Street, Adelaide.
MANUFACTURERS:
THE SUNBEAM MOTOR CAR CO., LTD.,
Wolverhampton, England.
SPECIAL EXPORT DEPARTMENT:
12 Princes Street, Hanover Square, London, W.l.
Cables: “SUBEAMOCO,” London.
OTHER MODELS.
20 and 25 h.p. 6-cylinder with open or closed coachwork.
ALL SUNBEAM OVERSEAS MODELS ARE BUILT WITH CORRECT TRACK AND
NECESSARY GROUND CLEARANCE.


INVESTMENT.
When an Investor consults his Solicitor or other adviser, it is not to
learn the interest or dividend rate a given investment will earn that is
usually known.
Security is an important factor another is the period of investment.
Given ample security for a suitable term, the wise investor is satisfied with a
reasonable interest rate.
A Savings Account offers these advantages, and, in addition, tne
principal may be added to at any time, in amounts of from 1/- upwards, with
a corresponding increase in interest-earning; the money remains practically
at call, for it may be withdrawn at will.
Investment in a Savings Account may be made at any Post Office in
Australia, or at any Branch of the
Comnonwealtb lank of Hustralia
(Guaranteed by the Commonwealth Government.)
Melbourne
Its location is ideal —at the heart
of Melbourne’s business zone and a
few steps from railway stations,
steamship wharves and houses of
entertainment. It is complete in
every essential that should charac-
terise the City’s best hotel—perfect
cuisine, sumptuous appointments,
quietness and instant, yet unobtru-
sive attention. Direct and inter-
communicating telephones and hot-
and cold-water service in all bed-
rooms.
Inclusive Tariff by Day, or Bed and
Breakfast Rate.
WRITE FOR TARIFF CARD.
Telegrams: “Scott’s,” Melbourne.
’Phone: Cent. 9012 (4 lines).
mm
isw
mn
Melbourne
Chatter
The first day of the Grand National meet-
ing at Flemington was more than a little
damp. At ten o’clock everyone was saying
“What a heavenly morning,” but an hour
later it was bitterly cold and raining, a con-
dition which was chronic until the last race.
Jockeys who had done any previous riding
over the battens went to the barrier looking
as if they had been in a football scrum.
Riders in the big race were drenched to the
skin and mud-spattered from cap to boots—
a perfect nightmare of a meeting. Women
rolled up in great numbers, but it was no
dress parade. There’s nothing more woe-begone
than wet furs. Their Exes, and staff were
present in full force, Lady Somers covering a
grey tweed suit with a black mackintosh,
topped by a blue. felt hat. Colonel David-
son’s wife was a study in burgundy tones,
with mole fur. Mrs. Ronald McDonald,
whose husband is an extra aide, wore a
light brown coat and millinery of ashes of
roses hue. Vice-Admiral Napier and his
life-partner, Colonel St. Ledger Robertson
and his wife, Mrs. Alan Currie, whose
dahlia-liued hat cheered brown apparel, and
Mrs. R. A. D. Hood were visitors at
intervals to the V.-R. reserve.
The throng in the committee-box was large.
Chairman L. K. S. Mackiunon’s wife lent
an air of opulence with a sable coat and
Mrs. John Winter Irving wore a smart coat
with attached cape in chanel-red tone, with
biscuit felt hat. With her was her daughter,
Mrs. Bruce Mead. Mrs. Edward Manifold,
Mrs. Philip Russell and secretary A. V.
Kewney’s wife, who was accompanied by
Mrs. Gilchrist, were part of the V.R.C. con-
tingent. Joan Chirnside, with a cherry-red
hat above a beaver coat, was accompanied by
Mrs. Dermot Casey, lately returned from
England with her husband. Jascha Heifetz
saw some of the racing as a prelude to a
recital in the evening. Airs. Hamilton Baird,
the Charles Taits, the Richard Lintons, the
Robert Knox couple, she in ensemble rai-
ment of natural wool hue with a Wedgwood-
blue toque, and James Purves and his wife
were others who took their pleasures damply.
The experience has shown women the desir-
ability of establishing the totalisator at
Flemington. Getting bets on was a forlorn-
hope business in such weather, and there
was many a sigh ror the cosily covered
totes of Randwick.
The multitude shivered in unison at the
Oaklands Hunt Club races at Moonee Val-
ley, and the only consolation wearers of
bunny could lay to their souls was that folk
who wore real sables were no warmer. The
wintriest June Melbourne has ever known
has brought with it a plague of chilblains
that afflicts the just and the unjust, and the
gathering wasn’t the happiest of the season.
President Alister Clark’s wife, whose hus-
band loves roses and horses, was there in
coat of bottle-green with fur collar and
cuffs, topped by a small harmonising hat
with feather trimming. With her was Sen-
ator Guthrie’s sister Ella wearing a petunia
velvet hat with her black cloth coat. Pat
Clarke was a pretty maiden in black suit
and floppy felt millinery. Mollie Finlay,
her companion, was in fawn and brown pat-
terned tweed topped by a beige hat. Mrs.
Harold Newbigin had daughter Joan with
her. Mary Skirving, Fairlie Lyon, Barbara
and Alison Madden, the Alec McCrackens,
Nan Cook and the J. B. McArthur couple
were wearers of the pink who put in an
appearance.
Since October of last year a few enthusi-
asts have been working to reconstruct the
Victorian branch of the Overseas League.
The Victorian quota is already 110 local,
with 300 who are on the membership roll of
headquarters in London. A hop will be held
at the Embassy on August 2 to gather in
funds for rooms. A meeting presided over
by Mayoress Morell was held at the Town
Hall last week to make arrangements. The
State Governor will be president of the
branch. The Best lady, Mrs. James Purves.
Mrs. Jim Angus, Mrs. Thomas Baker, and
the Austral Salon’s secretary, Mrs. Quinnell,
are among the committee, with Misses
Hughes and Russell as joint secretaries. The
O.L. in London has sent £5O for the fur-
nishing account.
Men in evening dress, each wearing on
the lapel of his coat a white disc bearing his
name, occupation and address, wandered
around Camberwell Town Hall on a recent
evening and conversed, danced or played
cards with fashionably-clad women who also
wore identification badges. It was a get-
together party of Rotarians staged by the
president, H. G. Mcßoberts, and his wife,
she a slim figure in mauve raiment that
blended to pink about the hem line and had
bead embellishment. The blue and gold of
the Rotarians’ Club made the ballroom gay,
and there was jazz and bridge. Madame
Lena Kingston, Lorna Reid, Howard King,
Stanley Elliott and Leslie Jephcott made
music. Mayor Rookes, of Camberwell, and
his wife looked in at the jollo after attend-
ing the mayoral ball at Northcote. Mrs.
Latham, in draperies of orange hue, Mrs.
Richard Linton, whose black-and-gold bro-
cade wrap covered a black gown, Mrs. Philip
Nunn with ermine wrap shrouding a spark-
ling gown of rose hue, the F. Challings-
worths, the Danks, Latham and Monash
knights and Mrs. A. E. Boyes were amid the
labelled throng.
The opening concert of violinist Heifetz
at the Auditorium on Saturday night intro-
duced Melbourne to the £9OOO Guarnerius
fiddle and to Isidor Achron, an accompanist
of outstanding merit. Heifetz starts off with
the Anthem, and therefore hasn’t got it in
reserve as a polite intimation to the encore
fiend that the end has come. The young man
hasn’t yet learned to smile and he accepted
a laurel wreath as if it were a tribute to
the honored dead. The audience was more
musical than dressy. Though the Audito-
rium is well warmed there was no radiance
of evening gowns, and only a glistening
bridge-coat here and there brightened the
sombre aspect of the crowd. Mrs. Albert
Miller, Dr. Price, the city organist, and his
wife, Fritz Hart and his son Basil, the Rob-
inson lady, Dr. Georgina Sweet, many Taits,
the Wimpoles and Muriel Campbell were
there.
The date chosen by barrister Flos Greig
for her travel talk on South-Eastern Asia
to help the International Federation of
Women Graduates happened to be that on
which Queen Mary opened Crosby Hall in
the Big Smoke, the headquarters of the
Federation. Lady Somers showed her in-
terest in the local movement by joining
the large audience at the Emily McPherson
School of Domestic Economy. Introduced
by Dr. Constance Ellis, president of the
Women Graduates’ Association, the Gover-
nor’s wife, who looked charming in a white
georgette frock with jade-blue embroidery on
the shoulders and at the waistline, told of
the Queen’s interest in the higher education
of women. Miss Greig, who is a bright
sneaker, took her audience for a ramble over
the countries she lately toured with Dr.
Georgina Sweet.
This is a Lafayette impression of Gladys
MacDowell, who has lately come into the
limelight through the success of her eon-
certs-in-schools
scheme. She is
a graduate of
Albert - street
C o n., where
she gained a
scholarship un-
der the late
Madame Alice
Rees - Vogrich.
She is known
to Austral-
asian concert-
goers as a con-
tralto singer of
much charm,
having accom-
panied Ellen
Terry on the
famous a e t-
ress’s lecturing
tour. Later,
she was a
singer with
the Verbrug-
glien orchestra in Sydney.
Melba Hall, the sanctum sanctorum of
music at the Uni. Con., has succumbed to
jazz; students held a hop there on Friday.
With the building of the Tallis wing a sup-
per:room was added to the hall, and with such
incitement to frivolity the budding musicians
can’t be blamed. Claire Brennan, presi-
dent of the committee, wore clouds of amber
georgette enriched with gold lace, secretary
Marie Magan’s frock combined taffeta and
foliage of autumn shades, and soprano Ethel
Forshaw, who guarded the finances, intro-
duced a dash of summer with a gown of gold
lame and paler-hued georgette. Bernard
Heinze gave the affair the benediction of his
presence, and Dr. and Mrs. Lodewyckx and
the Sutton Crow couple were others who
took part.
A. A. Milne’s comedy “Belinda,” with
Dr. Frank Apperly’s wife as leading lady
and producer, was put on at Christ Church
Hall. South Yarra, last week as part of
the Animal Week effort. A good house
gladdened the hearts of convener Mrs. Frank
Andrew and the hon. secretary. Mrs. Corrio
Gardner. About £l6 was added to the tak-
ings by sales of sweets and flowers. One
petrified male suggested that a lot more
money would have been made by hiring out
footwarmers and hot-water bags, and it cer-
tainly was cold. Big Brother Richard Liti-
ton’s wife had charge of the blooms, while
Mrs. Campbell and Mrs. Jack Clendinnin
controlled the lollipop sales. Lucy Stogdale,
whose frock was concealed beneath a. gold-
embroidered Chinese coat, was one of a
host of girls who vended articles’ for sale.
Most of these fair hawkers wore white fur
jackets over pretty evening apparel, the bevy
including Esme Frankenberg, Phyllis Robb,
Lynette Dickenson, Elsa Andrew and Cora
Spowers. The play, well put on, was accept-
ably acted and prettily dressed. Bessie
Williams and Roma Smith were quite in
the picture. The Footwarmers’ Amateur
Orchestra cheered the intervals. Mayor
fylorell, his lady, wearing a gold tissue coat,
and daughter Sheila were in the front row.
This is Gerald Hayle, a Tasmanian whose
faith in the future of Australian films is
about to be rewarded. He worked at indus-
trial and pro-
paganda stuff
to acquire an
inside know-
ledge of the
game, then
turned his at-
tention to
writing and
producing. His
first effort,
“Environ-
ment.” is book-
ed for the
Palace Theatre
next month,
and another
picture,“Rush-
ing Waters,”
is being made
under his di-
re cti on. A
navigator an
cestor, Captain
Kelly, sailed
round the Speck in a whale-boat.
Ex-students of various colleges are having
an annual jazz just now. The Old Girls of
Catholic Ladies’ College put on a special
affair at St. Ivilda Town Hall one night last
week in honor of their Alma Mater’s silver
jubilee. There were 30 hostesses, but
supreme control rested with a small com-
mittee headed by the president, Annie Rose,
whose blue frock twinkled with crystal beads.
Mona Redmond, in an opalescent sequinned
robe, and Roa O’Farrell, wearing a gown
that was a scintillation of blue and onyx
tracery, shared the secretarial job. The
white interior of the ballroom was shorn
of its chill by decorations in gold and green.
Many members and their friends were
drawn from their firesides to join in the
monthly dance at the Austral Salon. Sec-
retary Quinnell, familiarly known as
“Auntie May,” was there in glimmer of pail-
ettes and mauve georgette; Mrs. F. Beavis
attended in a blue frock brightened with
diamente; and Annette Lynch blended black
satin and lace.
National Gallery students showed origin-
ality in the setting of their annual fancy-
dress frolic at St. Ivilda Town Hall on
Friday night. The ballroom was converted
into a circus tent, and at 10 o’clock there
was a parade of weird animals with Nancy
Turner as ringmaster. President Pascoe
Redwood was a lion, Marjorie North, secre-
tary of the hop, was a donkey-woman, and
Jean Pearson, the treasurer, was a gay
meadow lark. The affair was a cheery one.
Bernard Hall, director of the gallery, and
his wife were there.
The Malvern and Armadale branch of the
Women’s Hospital, which has Mrs. T. A.
Tabart, wife of the secretary of the V.A.T.C.,
as president, took a hand the other day in
making the dining-room for doctors and stu-
dents at the hospital more comfortable and
homelike. When they had finished there
was nothing in the room that recalled the
past but the walls. Mayoress Morel! was
commandeered on Thursday afternoon to
officially hand over the refurbished apart-
ment.
The holiday home at Blackburn for the
kiddies of Melbourne’s Free Kindergarten
requires £7OO. Friends of the F.K.IJ. are
putting their shoulders to the wheel, and at
Malvern Town Hall on a recent afternoon
Mrs. A. L. Ogilvy was organiser of a bridge
party. Mrs. J. Reardon was secretary, and
Mrs. Ai Randall treasurer. Adele Ogilvy
and Patricia Strickland conducted a com-
mercial enterprise in the confectionery line,
and about £lOO is expected to ensue when
accounts are made up.
Pink pearls came into favor last week.
At two fashionable weddings the bridesmaids
sported these baubles, St. John’s, Toorak, was
the scene of one of these, the linking of Wil-
liam Mitchell Wanliss, eldest son of Irvine,
C.J., and his good-looking lady, with Dora,
eldest daughter of A. Ellis Wood and Mrs.
Wood, of the fashionable locality. There
was a sheen of pink over the bride’s gown
of vellum-toned satin, which had embroidery
of pearls and a me'rmaid-like train of the same
material likewise adorned. Her Limerick-
lace veil had been worn by the bridegroom’s
grandmother. A sheaf of pink camellias was
carried. Brenda Wood, Nancy Irvine, and
Madge Taylor of the Overnewton clan
maided in _ frocks of leaf-green georgette
with bordering* of velvet petals of the same
hue mounted on pale pink, green velvet toque-
like millinery, pink pearls and hose, with
shoes of verdant hue.
Dr. A. E. Frost, of Bendigo, and Mrs.
E. M. Dunlop, of Toorak, unobtrusively walked
up tlie aisle of Christ Church, South Yarra,
and listened to words that made them one.
The newly-weds will wander abroad towards
the end of this month, by way of America.
Nancy and Betty Frost will be included in .
father’s party and hurry has no place on
the programme. Two years may elapse be-
fore returns are booked.
The ceremony of uniting Maisie, eldest
daughter of the William Parbury couple, of
Toorak. and Dennis, son of Dr. and Mrs.
Herman Lawrence, also Toorakians, was
accomplished at St. John’s the other after-
noon with full choral and floral accompani-
ment. The three bridesmaids, Betty and
Rosalind Parbury and Rosalind Spowers,
made a delicate shell-pink background for
the white-clad leading lady. Soft covering
of white georgette, the folds fastened with
big pearl tassels and the train showing a
glimmer of silver, was the bride’s choice.
The veil was of rare Brussels-point lace, a
gift from Alex Watt, of the Harbor City.
The romantic circlet has already found a
few fingers at Canberra. Its latest recruit is
Mabel, younger daughter of the Y. M. Forces,
who is pledged to John Percy Savage, only
son of the Langton Reids, of Kynuna, North
Queensland. Their wedding will be a social
event at the capital.
The Fred Bennetts, of Toorak, announce
that their second son, William Edgar, has
put the question in England to Ellen Redd-
iough, a Yorkshire lass, who lives with her
parents at Farnhill Hall, Childwick. She
has said yes.
Members of the Women’s Art Club fare-
welled their honorary secretary, Louie Har-
vie, the other day. On the 19th she sails
by the Cathay with her sister Maud (known
for her work with the S.P.A., especially the
Purple Cross) for a couple of years’ tour
abroad. The gathering was at the home of
Mrs. Lewis Lakeland at Vermont, where
good-byes were said over the teacups, and
the guest of honor was given a travelling
clock, handed to her by artist Annie Gates.
The Peter Gawthorns heard in England
rumors of our shortage of domestics, and
with their four children brought a stall’ to
run the seaside home they have started at
Brighton. The head of the house, who came
here for a holiday, has been persuaded by his
old friefJd Joseph Cunningham to make an
appearance in “Outward Bound.” An actor-
author, and a traveller of renown, with a
breezy manner, fine presence and London re-
putation, Gawthorn should prove very useful
to the combination.
Marie Bjelke Petersen, who left her Tassy
home and came on a holiday jaunt, has had
all her pleasant schemes swept away by a
grim happening. Her friend, Sylvia Mills
- —a companion of years—was gathered in by
the Reaper. Double-pneumonia was the
cause. When ill-healtli compelled Miss
Mills to abandon a promising musical career,
the authoress took her home and nursed her
back to health, and they have been insepar-
able ever since.
The H. R. Gordons have decided to settle
at their home, Resborough Park, for a span
of quiet living. For 30 years they have lived
in Asia, and a backwater at Mickleham
will seem tame by comparison. They were
aboard the Tasman when she ran foul of a
reef off Clarke’s Island. The other passen-
gers were taken on to Sydney, but the Gor-
dons remained behind and enjoyed a holiday
in primitive surroundings.
Mrs. Byron Moore has gone to Honolulu
for a few months to seek warmth and sun-
shine. Her daughters Linda and Mrs. Ron-
ald Gordon accompanied her, and Beatrice
Henty was also of the party.
There is rejoicing in the Albert Miller
household, for grand-daughter Mrs. Yencken.
who was Joyce Russell, is to revisit the
State. With her small son she will travel
with her mother, the handsome Mrs. Black-
wood, once George Russell’s widow. The
young Yencken matron has an interest iu
pasturages here.
Big Brother Richard Linton is faced with
a difficulty in connection with the delegation
of 500 Scots that will go next year to tell
brithers in the Land o’ Haggis about Aus-
tralia. He is deluged with applications and
inquiries, and scents trouble in cutting down
his contingent to the required half-thousand.
Bridge being no longer a game, but a
ritual, and the individual unlearned therein
a social outcast, a number of women and
a man or two are earning a nice little com-
petence by initiating neophytes. Last week
L. J. Fox, one of the most erudite of Bridge
pundits, began Tuesday and Thursday after-
noon lectures on the cult at a city cafe.
Women of all ages and some elderly men
attended, and all showed absorbed interest
in the revelations.


Macmillan’s
NEW BOOKS.
The prices advertised are those at which the
books are published in London. Prices outside
the British Isles must be fixed by the importing
bookseller.
Volume One of
the New Edition of
GROVE’S
DICTIONARY
OF
MUSIC
Will Be Published
in October.
A TREATISE ON VITICULTURE.
By A. I. PEROLT), E.A., PL.T)., Pro-
fessor of Viticulture and Oeuology in
the University of Stellenbosch. Illus-
trated. 255. net.
Oambiudge University' Agiiicultijliai,
Society' Magazine : “This is a most compre-
hensive work consisting of nearly 700 pages—
and it contains information much of which now
becomes available in English for the first time.
....This book is well illustrated, and is
altogether a work which should prove of con-
siderable value to the student of Viticulture.”
MACMILLAN’S EMPIRE LIBRARY.
NEW VOL.
THE ABSOLUTE AT LARGE.
A Fantastic Story.
By KAIIEL CAPEK, Author of
“R.U.R.,” “The Insect Play,” etc.
The Evening Standard: “Scientific men some-
times give ns a glimpse of what may happen
when man can harness the atom. Karel Capek
has gone farther, and envisioned a world in
which atomic energy, having been harnessed,
first provides mankind with a new religion
and then sets all the world at war. It is a
disturbing vision, as well as a fine piece of
satire.”
To he obtained from All Booksellers.
MACMILLAN & CO.LTD.
Melbourne & lonoon, w.c.2
\LL AUSTRALIANS visiting London
Jr\ should read the British Australian
and New Zealander, 6d. weekly—an illus-
trated paper containing mail and cable news
from Australia and news of Australians in
Europe and at home. Australians are cordi-
ally invited to visit the British Australian
and New Zealander Reading-room at the
Offices, 414-17 Australia House, Strand,
London, WC.2, where they can see the home
papers, meet their friends, use the telephone
and obtain information without charge.
Copies of the paper and general information
can be obtained at the Australian Advertis-
ing Agency. Ltd.. 250 George Street, Sydney;
or 424 Collins Street, Melbourne.
Monarch
a
ROYAL
SMOKE
h
The cigar foi
particular
smokers.
AH Hotels and
Tobacconists.
6d. each
10 cigars, 6/-
25, 12/6
50, 23/9
100, 46/-
Post paid to auj
address.
Sampler Box,
containing two
cigars, 1/- post
free.
CRAIG 8 AITKEN,
5548 George Street
Sydney,
Distributors fo.
Club Reil
Cigar
Factory.
By Appointment to
H.M. King George V,
Vavu
.. 'i
%
1
uK r fl
%
if)
B 6 P B
;7o«M B ise|_ B
iM
«m
iimiiiimiiii J
u m
L*
L Ai-
So
ger
ili Vnh"mii
LEYLAND LORRIES
stand the strain
you find an industry or a public service
exacting in its demands of unusually heavy trans-
port, there you will find Leyland Lorries doing yeoman
service. By their exceptional strength and power, low
operating costs and unfailing dependability Leylands
have become the choice of a long list of Government
Departments, Shire and Municipal Councils and import-
ant industrial concerns generally.
The Best British Lorry Built
Leyland’s inbuilt British quality from the basic design to
the final detail has provided surplus strength and power
far above the most unusual demands. Almost as import-
ant as the calibre of the lorry itself is Leyland s after-
purchase service, which is quickly available to every
owner throughout Australia.
Leyland SERVICE keeps
Leyland Lorries on the Road
PRICES OF STANDARD
AUSTRALIAN CHASSIS:
Ex Sydney or Melbourne Works:
2- . . £720 4-ton . . £1075
3- . . £850 5-ton . . £1185
Jgvla^MolOTS
rt?d-
ENGLAND
HEAD OFFICE
24 CROSVENOR S 7
•* SYDNEY ••
SERVICE STATION
AUSTRALIA ST.
CAMPERDOWN
TELEPHONES a7951-&7952 TELEGRAMS LEYMOTORS-SYDNEY


Two HIGH-GRADE STOCK SADDLES
The “BOULIA” The “LONGREACH”
ĥ
ħ
COMFORT
for
HORSE
and
RIDER.
Tlie “BOULIA” is an extra
dippy-seated saddle with the
orthodox stock pads set well
up the rider’s thighs. Fitted
with folded girth, leathers and
solid nickel stirrups.
£l5/17/6
Tlie “LONCREACH’' Is an ex-
ceptionally comfortable saddle
with pads differing in shape
from the regular stock pad,
and running up the thighs
almost level with the head of
saddle. The flaps are sewn
direct on to the seat, giving a
narrow non-chafing grip.
Fitted as above.
£l6/10/-
Freight Paid for Cash With
Order to N.S.W. Railway
Stations.
m
bA
Write for Our
Catalogue of
Texas and A us.
Saddlery.
WALTHER S STEVENSON, Ltd.
395 George Street,
SYDNEY.
dV
$
o
S
es* 5
yte
Food
For
backward
children,,
There is nothing better
than Benger’s Food for
backward children, and
a cupful between meals,
and at bedtime, provides
just what is wanted.
Parents who have a child
growing too rapidly, or weakly,
or not thriving, can be sure
that extra nutrition of this par-
ticular kind is required.
Benger's Food is always
made with fresh new milk. It
enriches and converts the milk
into a delicious food ci earn,
very easy to digest.
Bender's Food is sold by Chemists and Stores
everywhere.
Benger’s booklet for Mothers,
post free from Benger’S Food, Ltd., 350, George St., SYDNEY.
Sole Manufacturers: —Benger’s Food, Ltd., Otter Works, Manchester, England.
A. 271 •
'•'""HAVE DRY MATCHF*
IH WET WEATHER
’ It’s possible if you have 1
a Marble’s Water-Proof Matchbox.
Holds enough matches for several
days. Thousands used by men
who say “it’s worth its weight in
gold.” Made of seamless brass with
water-tight cover, just the rightsize
for the pocket. Get one today and
have a light when you need it most.
Ask for our complete catalog.
MARBLE ARMS & MFC. COMPANY,
611 Delta Avenue, Gladstone, Mich., U.S.A.
Representatives : Molden, Weber & Co., Ltd,,
Box 1349 J, Sydney, N.S.W.
h
‘THE WOMAN’S
PRICE ...
MIRROR,”
. . . 3d.
Contains everything a woman needs tv know
Missing Friends.
\Y7ILL HARRY BACKHURST write to
w his mother. MRS. T. WRIGHT Gran-
tham Road, Plumpton, via Rooty Hill. N.S.W.?
treate Q
to bot?V° s Ut g£ ea s e ro v^n
cond^° nS ’lt%o\cis the tgives
P a S ce , f r uptur e 'f s ° e ei a nd
bol'i V°. ur giving e| s b W®
cond^ onS ’ lt g et gives
comtoJVmW together-
• n fre. e
ireedom u a * sat) s-
V/e t off tf you trial
TK^ L 'Aitback and
fied seT \,' n otVuug- y is
C ° StS V scient' ftc d { ' S a tf au d «
This sc'®" ch of au atld
within lllMS '
suitable 1 WtU e f° T
--
Winslows IMPROVED
Air-Cushion Appliance
WINSLOW & CO.
104 QUEEN STREET, MELBOURNE, VIC.
o
o
1
SELF-FILLING
SAFETY
Holds 50% More Ink
Onoto, the Pen, has for years been the busy
man’s pen. The ease with which it fills and
cleans itself, its readiness to write whenever
wanted, its absolute security from leakage,
and the fact that it holds 50 per cent, more
ink than any other self-filling pen has gained
for Onoto, the Pen, the first place
THOMAS HE LA RUE & CO. LTD.
110 Bunhill Row. London. E.C. 1.
ONOTO INK—Best for all Pens.
HARBOR TOURIST TRIPS
Weather and other circumstances permitting.
From Fort Macquarie at 10.15 a.rn. and 2.15 p.m.
EVERY TUESDAY AND EVERY THURSDAY.
Fares: All-day, 2/6; Half-day, 1/6. Children, 1/- and 6d.
Luncheon by reservation at Clifton Gardens Hotel. Afternoon Tea on Board.
SPECIAL TRIP EVERY SUNDAY No. 6 JETTY, CIRCULAR QUAY
Adults, 1/6. Children, 6tl.
Tels.: 86276 (4 lines).
Sydney Ferries, Ltd.
The Little Sisters
Lennon's hotel
BRISBANE
The Centre of Queenslands
Distinguished Social Liƒe!
QUEENSLAND.
Brisbane.
Twenty-four debs, were presented to the
G'oocfwikw at tbe ball for the funds of the
Mater Misericordiae Hospital, given in the
Crystal Palace on the last day of June.
Trails of venusta, bunches of wattle and
colored lights, blue and orange pennants and
wistaria in rustic baskets, with a jazz band
hidden in an isle of palms, were the decora-
tions, and in the supper-room pale gold
streamers and baskets and branches of wattle
did the adorning. Float-bowls of Toowoomba
violets, yellow Iceland poppies and La
France roses were on the Governor’s table.
Their Exes, were met by Dr. Duhig, Mrs.
T. J. Ryan, and others. Mrs. Windsor pre-
sented Lady Goodwin with jonquils and
violets in a gold-lace holder. Her Ex. wore
midnight-blue. Mayoress Jolly got a bouquet
of white camellias and pink sweet peas. Mrs.
Ryan, who presented the debs., wore ivory
ninon with silver and lilies of the valley;
The Bulletin’s Nora Kelly came with her
in cherry taffetas. Mrs. F. Iv. Brodribb
wore silver sequins with a three-tier skirl
of silver fringe, and Mrs. Campbell was in
blue mariette and silver.
During the week the Returned Soldiers
and Sailors’ League had a smoke-concert
for the new Governor, and various luncheons
and dinners have been eaten in public by
their Exes.
Neville Howse has been here with a good
deal to say about cancer research work, and
Mayor Jolly is calling a meeting to consider
the establishment of a clinic.
Mrs. T. J. Ryan staged a tea with a
background of wattle, at the Women’s Club,
for Nora Kelly and presented the guest of
honor with a posy. Mrs. Ryan wore a
black-and-grey tailormade with black velour
hat and Nora was in sedge-green crSpe de
Chine and repp with a fitch stole and bro-
caded amber toque. Amongst the throng
were Mayoress Jolly, Chief Justice Blair’s
wife, Mrs. Morgan Lane, Mrs. Spencer
Browne, Mrs. Stanley Chapman, Mrs. M.
Forrest, Mrs. AY. Young, Mrs. A. J. Jones,
Miss E. O’Shea, Freda Bage, Miss Prior
and Miss Marsh (Sydney), Thelma Smith,
Mollie Shellshear, Alice Gore-Jones, Miss
F. Clayton, Winifred Moore and Margaret
Cookson. Nora Kelly and Misses Marsh and
Prior return to Sydney by the Northern
Rivers motor route this week.
The Goodwins paid their first visit to the
Downs this week in frosty, bright weather.
In Warwick there was a civic reception and
the Mayor spoke feelingly of the wilting
wheat crop. The Vice-liegals were motored
through Canning Downs and had afternoon
tea with the Sternes. Toowoomba greeted
his Ex. as the train passed through.
The Films Commission has moved on.
In giving evidence before it J. S. Kerr,
secretary of Australian Film Productions,
Ltd., said “The Moth of Moonbi” made
a profit of £1300; “Greenhide” not so much.
Charles E. Chauvel, one of the witnesses,
who is the producer for the company, has
lately taken to himself a pretty little blonde-
haired wife, Elsie Sylvaney, late of Cremorne
Follies and leading lady in “Greenhide.”
The fifteenth is our wattle day and the
fluffy gold is already assembling. Against
the cobalt blue of our foothills on one of
our typical bright, cold July mornings its
beauty is something to remember.
Jeanette Ethelston, the Queensland lyric
soprano, has, through P. J. Nally, Director
of the Queensland Intelligence Bureau in
Sydney, issued
invitations to
a musical re-
cital to be held
in the Royal
.Colonial Insti-
tute, Sydney,
on the 12th in-
stant. The re-
cital will be
under the pat-
ronage. of Gov-
ern o r and
Lady de Chair.
The invitations
are limited to
prominent
Queenslanders
resid in g in
Sydney, and
the recital is
for the pur-
pose of giving
them an op-
portunity o f
hearing the voice which Dame Nellie Melba
pronounced in May as “very rich, and full
of great promise.” Miss Ethelston intends
to act on Dame Nellie’s advice, and leave
for Paris and London as soon as she can.
TASMANIA.
Hobart.
A perfect winter day, a big crowd, and
some thrilling finishes made Melton Mow-
bray’s annual hunt club meeting enjoyable.
Ilis Ex. and Margaret O’Grady were guests,
and there was a big muster of motorists.
L. Field, on Scotch Thorn, won the Steeple-
chase for the second year in succession. A
win next time will give him a Challenge
Cup. The Russell Ibbotts gave a jolly dance
at their house to wind up the day.
The visit of the English women’s hockey
team has been a great success in its way,
tlurngh our girls were beaten handsomely.
h ltli the team is Miss Thompson, president
of the All-England Hockey Association and
a woman of many parts, a good speaker and
a writer of distinction. Another member of
the team is Winifred Brown, who holds an
air-pilot’s certificate.
The visiting hoekeyites, with Mrs. Ogilvie,
president of the Southern Hockey Associa-
tion, Mrs. F. W. Darling, vice-president, and
Miss Wilson, secretary, were bidden to tea
with the O’Gradys at Government House.
The same evening Mayor and Mayoress Wig-
nail assisted the Hobart hockey girls to give
the guests a shivoo at the Town Hall.
The Old Hobartians’ dance for the team
was a cheery affair at the Imperial. About
100 guests footed it until midnight. A trip
by motor to the Springs, after which most of
the team climbed fo the summit of Mt. Wel-
lington and returned bemired but rapturous,
was not the least enjoyable of the outings.
At the private winter exhibition of the
Art Society the outstanding features were
Mrs. Paterson’s clever portrait of Mrs. A. C.
Kennedy and a charming pastel nude by Miss
Marsh.
WESTRALIA.
Perth.
Our new Greenroom Club is gaining favor,
and Tuesday of each week sees a smart
gathering at the tea-tables. The latest guest-
of-honor was Heifetz, 'who brought his ac-
companist, Isidor Achron. Madame Gilbee-
Buck was hostess —she represented the
Westralian Society of Concert Artists —and
president Ilope-Robertson helped her to wel-
come the guests. There was singing by
Madame Gilbee-Buck and George Haywood,
Gladys Orchard played and Dorothy Mark
spoke some pieces.
This is a
Bardwell
Clarke picture
o f Dorothy,
youn g e r
daughter of the
J. G. Mi 1-
ners, of Perth,
who has gradu-
ated in science
with honors in
zoology. She
has been lec-
turing on her
pet subject,
but after
August will
enter a sphere
where lectures
of another sort
may be in or-
der. She is to
become t h e
wife of Reg
Forsaith.
The Lawn Tennis annual hop was held in
Government House ballroom, a privilege
earned by the fact that a gale had unroofed
tire hall originally chosen. President Sin-
clair J. McGibbon’s youthful consort was in
black georgette and silver. About a thousand
battled for costume prizes, the chief award
falling to the “Naughty Pierrettes,” most
of the material of whose costumes was
taken up in neck ruffles.
Marie Barry, since married to John New-
man, of Brighton (Vic.), was entertained
at many a tea-drinking before her departure.
The vows were said in St. Xavier’s.
The Minnewarra Ladies’ Choir gave a
musical afternoon at the W. 11. Vincents’
home, Cottesloe. The house boasts a very
fine music-room, which was an ideal setting
for the concert.
Shaw’s “Devil’s Disciple” has disported
himself at the Repertory Club’s hall for four
nights. Bessie Durlacher’s garments were
of the pannier order, with frilled fichu and
mittens; and a demure little parson’s wife
she made. Blossoms and chocolates were
handed up after the final act.
•To Compton, a much-liked flapper, is show-
ing an engagement badge to her circle. Wil-
liam Henry, elder son of the J. W. Brouns,
of Beverley, put it on her finger.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA.
Adelaide.
Heifetz has given us the thrill of the week
—two, indeed. The original programme of
two concerts was cut to one concert, with
the result that the “house full” sign con-
fronted the earliest would-be buyer of tickets
at the door, and the audience overflowed
from organ galleries to stage, leaving not
much more than enough room for Heifetz
and the piano. He cut encores to a mini-
mum (one during the programme and no
more till the end), and local musicians had
only a word or two with him. and that at
the back of the stage. Illness kept Lady
Bridges away.
The eloquent Henry Howard, now in
charge of a New York pulpit, but revisiting
Adelaide, brings word of his daughter Wini-
fred. who is running a children’s page in
the Brooklyn Weekly Times. She has writ-
ten a set of children’s songs, too, and the
words for a “Faery Cantata.”
James Ashton’s pupils showed their love
bv going in force to the opening day of his
show in the Society of Arts rooms, and even
before W. J. Sowden had made his opening
speech there was a liberal sprinkling of red
seals. This year is Ashton’s last as a
teacher.
Scotch Old Boys had their dance in the
college ball-room, the scene of many festivi-
ties when the place was the home of the
Barr Smiths. The Grattons, J. T. Ashtons
and A. B. Pinchbecks did the honors.
The Conservatorium has been farcwelling
T. H. Jones, who has resigned from the staff
after being associated with the Con. from
the start. He was with Herr Reimann at
the College of Music before that. But he has
been a church organist even longer than he
has been teaching—for 50 years, to be exact
—and it is a tradition that he helped with
the concert at which Melba made her first
public appearance.
Walford House and the Wilderness had a
hard fight for first place at- the girls’ school
sports on the Oval. Wilderness winning with
a point and a half to spare.
The Lillecrapp-Murray wedding w T as at
Chalmers-street Church —she Inez, eldest
daughter of the Walter Murrays, of Cappedee,
and he Ross, son of the H. G. Lillecrapps,
of Eden Valley. There were three brides-
maids —her sister, Biddy Fotheringliam and
Dorothy Grundy—one pink, one mauve, one
blue and all tight of bodice and flared of
skirt. The Eric Murrays’ two small daugh-
ters were train-bearers. August will see the
Magillicuddy-Glynn wedding, foreshadowed by
a handkerchief tea for her at Mrs. Alwyn
Barker’s the other afternoon.


Am usciuents.
EMPIRE THEATRE,
Railway Square, adjoining Saunders’ Corner,
in Quay Street, Sydney.
Rufe Naylor has the honor to present
2/6 “SUNNY” 5/6
(By arrangement with Clias. Dillingham, X.Y.)
PLAYING TO CAPACITY NIGHTLY.
“SUNNY” commences at 7.-15 sharp. Orchestral
items from 7.30.
Reserves at Theatre (M.A. 1000), Nicholson-
Paling’s, Hotel Australia, Usher’s, Carlton, Samuel’'.
Matinees Wednesday and Saturday at 2.
Theatre lln-; un ,Homs: !) to 3, 4 to 9.
JSJ YI) N E Y’S CHIEF THEATRE
J. C. WILLIAMSON, LTD., present
HER MAJESTY’S:
MADAME POMPADOUR.
CRITERION: THE GHOST TRAIN.
ROYAL: THE GREEN HAT.
PALACE: CRADLE SNATCHERS
3T. JAMES THEATRE, SYDNEY.
(By arrangement with Sir Benjamin and
John Fuller.)
THE SHEIK.
Tlie Play, not the Picture.
NIGHTLY at 8.
Matinees Wednesday and Saturday, 2.15.
Plan at Nicholson’s and Theatre.
p ULLERS’ THEATRE, SYI >XE Y.
Twice Daily, 2.30 and 8.
STIFFY AND MO.
RICKARDS’ TIVOLI THEATRES
Lessees: Harry Rickards’ Tivoli Theatres, Ltd.
MELBOURNE and SYDNEY.
TWICE EVERY DAY—2.3O and 8.
CELEKR.itV V UIDEVIIiIiE.
The World’s Best.
TOYV N II AL L, S VD N E V.
EFREM ZIMBALIST,
“The Divine Genius of the Violin.”
To-night (Thursday), 7tli, and Saturday, 9th.
Box Plans at Paling’s.
Direction: Concert Tours, Ltd.
J C. U 1 L LIAM S O N, LTD.,
MHLIIOI/RNE ATTRACTIONS.
HIS MAJESTY’S: ROSE MARIE.
KING’S THEATRE:
COMMENCING SATURDAY NEXT.
TRILBY.
THEATRE ROYAL:
COMMENCING SATURDAY NEXT.
FRASQUITA.
pRIXCESS THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
EVERY EVENING AT 8.
the Eminent Actress, MURIEL STARR, in a new
version of the world-famed play,
EAST LYNNE.
Box Plan at, Glen’s.
A THEN iE U M THE ATR E,
MELBOURNE.
Proprietor: Frank Talbot Pty., Ltd.
Lessee: E. .T. Carroll.
EVERY EVENING AT 8.
The Uproariously Funny Comedy,
ELIZA COMES TO STAY.
Direction E. .1. Carroll, by arrangement with
Richard White and Eric Edgley.
Plan at Allan’s.
|UL\\ BIJOU THEATRE, MELBOURNE
Twice Daily, 2.30 and 8.
GEORGE WALD REVUE CO.
Popular Prices Plan Cen. 3251.
pALACE THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
EVERY EVENING AT 8.
CARTER THE GREAT.
The Monarch of Magic, Mystery and Mirth.
Box Plan at Glen’s.
IVI AJESTTC THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
PATSY RUTH MILLER in
Ihe W arncr Brothers Picture,
BROKEN’ HEARTS OF HOLLYWOOD.
Engrossing picture of the studios.
One in a thousand may earn fame.
But thousands are disappointed.
Triumphs and tragedies.
Box Plan at Allan’s & Theatre. ’Phone 7076 & 7790.
HOY T’S I) E LU X E THEATRE,
MELBOURNE.
MARIE LORRAINE in
THOSE WHO LOVE,
An Australian Picture that is Diffierent.
Prices as usual.
AUDITORIUM, M E LBOURN E.
J. and N. TAIT Present
World Famous Violinist,
HEIFETZ.
Next Concerts, JULY 9 and 12.
1" H E ALL A N WILIC I E S
SPEAREAN PRODUCTIONS
NEW' ZEALAND TOUR: Wellington—Grand
House Season, Commencing July 6.
Sydney Manager: J. y. d p Batvn
CaWe °* r d e: T ,, } ,lsfor r? Chambcrs * 178 Castlere
Cable and Iclegrapluc Address: “Othello”
G.P.O. Box 2229 LL.
If any illustration in “The bulletin”
takes your fancy, write to the
Manager, who will quote you price
for the original.
FOR'
ARCHITECTS, ARTISTS, DESIGNERS,
DRAUGHTSMEN & OFFICE USE.
X
BRITISH
MADE
Perfection
pitsh: rubber.
RUPTURE
No man or woman who is
Ruptured cun afford to lie
without this valuable book,
“The Modern Treatment and
Cure of Rupture.” It will explain exactly
what Rupture is, its causes, its dangers,
how in every , instance complete Comfort
and Security can unfailingly be obtained,
and how' in many cases even a radical
Cure is effected.
Don’t be misled and think this impossible
because you have been told so, or because
you have been discouraged and tortured
by old-fashioned and primitive Trusses,
which have proved useless.
This Book tells you of a Modern—a Newer
and Better way.
IT IS WORTH ITS WEIGHT IN GOLD,
AND IT IS FREE: COSTS NOTHING.
Simply fill in and post to-dav this
BOOK
FREE.
FREE COUPON
THE NEW ROUSSEL HOLD-
FAST RUPTURE CO.,
Fay’s Chambers, (!1 Market Street,
Sydney, N.S.VV. (one door from
Pitt Street).
Please send me, Post Free, 1 and
without obligation on my part,
your Free Book on Rupture.
NAME
FULL ADDRESS
STATE
(Please write plainly.) B.
80/- Kent "Ashok”
Tennis Racquet for
A July Special at Murdoch’s
The World’s strongest Racquet strung
with high-grade tension-keeping gut.
Write to Desl: R.
MURDOCH’S IN PARR ST. LTD., SYDNEY
Vaseline
Vaseline
TRADE MARK
PETROLEUM JELLY
PROTECTS BRUISES
Cover bumps, bruises and other
broken skin with “Vaseline” Jelly.
Quickly soothes and heals. Takes
away the hurt.
Look for the Trade Mark “Vaseline "
It is your protection\
Chesebrough Mfg. Co., Cons’d
New York London Montreal
UKULELES
HAWAI (AN/MODEL
Easvlo
%
m
5S
I
ov
The Kilauea, in dark
imitation koawood fin-
ish. White Ivorite
binding on front and
back edges.
Complete with case. Price
( Freight Free)
Other models from 20/- to 60/-
Descriptive Catalogue on application.
25/-
OBTAINABLE FROM ANY MUSIC.DEALER-
OR DIRECT FROM
h
When order in q pic are mention lfur pa her.
Answers to Correspondents.
.Vo notice (except of a hostile character) will be
taken of communications insufficiently stamped.
Same and address must appear on the MS. No
liability is undertaken re contributions volun-
tarily submitted; and no MS. will be returned
unless stamps accompany.
P.G.S.: “The Worm” got the early bird.
....(tipsy L.: Did you look at the thermometer
while you were singing of “Warm summer days of
June”?. .. .Syd. M.: “I admit I’m a bit of a liar,
but this story is true.” As far as that story is
concerned, you’re a dashed liar... .E.E.: Interested
to learn that life is doomed “to perform like a God-
purposed spider”... .M.N.G.: Melodious, but too
slight. And, besides, those varied third-line endings
are wrong... .Nev: Cremated accordingly... .Harry
B.: We don’t take syndicated stories... .E.D.Y.C.:
Crude... .T.McC.: “Ah, do they think of this lone
spot?” No, they mostly think of other “spots”....
N.C.M.: Not bad at all; but tlie whole thing is left
in the air... .C.W.R.P.: It was a very heavy run
you gave Munro before he slipped... .11.8. L.: The
“Moods” don’t suit us... .S.R.L.: The finest patriotic
sentiment in English? It’s a matter of taste. Per-
haps Cowper’s:—
England, with all thy faults I love thee still,
My country! And while yet a nook is left
Where English ways and manners may be found
Shall-be constrained to love thee.
.. . .Jerry G.: The poached-teal item is overdone....
M.L. (Ibis.) : You won’t win any prize in a rhyming
competition... .Lilian E.: Advice given with returned
MSS E.M.: Without humor or human feeling. .. .
M.J.N.: Tale of how the constable ran the man in
is run 0ut.... N. V.: The verse is merely a curiosity.
.... Ti.E. (Port Pirie): The historical snapshot does
not make a story. In any case, why go to ancient
Rome for a yarn ? Don't people live nowadays, and
isn’t Australia inhabited?....Bos. J.: In it goes:—
Who are they who once were rich but since have
struck a failure?
Who are they who drank champagne in honor of
Australia ?
Some of them are sleeping ’neath the papers in
Domain,
Some are sleeping in their graves—they died of the
ptomaine.
....C.D.: “Weep, weep!” We had to P.G.R.:
“ ‘Assail mo not,’ she cried.” Good heavens, do modern
girls talk that way ?.... Soames: Congratulations on
improvement. Both passed the first reading....
W. 8.5.: “God’s Lamp of Eve” is not lit with inspira-
tion J.E.P.: (Tas.) : Too slight J.H.P.: It has
all the rhythm of a shunting train... .A.M.S.:
Nothing in it.... Belle B.: The murder is certainly
a juicy item —-too juicy... .C.P.R.: “Yards —marred”
is no rhyme, for one thing. There are about 50
others.... Barry C.: We’ve l’ead some bad stories,
but “The Killing” is simply murder... .L.T.D.:
Better whistle “The Stray Dog” ; we don’t want it.
. ...M.G.: A full account of the accident: —
Riddle me, riddle me, riddle me, ree;
An elephant got kicked by a flea ;
It bruised his ankle and broke his knee.
Why does the sailor love tlie sea?
Riddle me, riddle me, riddle fine, ree.
....0.L.R.: We had to ask the office-boy to post
it back quickly before it broke our hearts....
St.G.DeL.M.: Your boast that you have “the gift of
language” is borne out by your use of words the
language didn’t want. .. .L.L. (Leichhardt): We
suspected from the start that the story was a funeral.
The craftsmanship is poor. .. .R.W.K.: “Blue Eyes”
blown out... .Pesco: Most, of them lack finish....
D. : You may feel “Liberty’s restraints”; but
why howl like a dog on a chain?... .8.G.A.: The
soul cry is futile.... Jack S.: Shadowy old idea behind
your mists.... Cam D.: Ten heavy stanzas commenc-
ing “Oh Lord.” We said it a good many times,
too. ...H.M. ' (Sandgate) : Doesn’t your ladylove’s
singing strike you as monotonous?... .H.W.L.: Your
“contrite thought” is a trite thought as we 11.... Adsum:
Nearly... .R.C.H.: More sermonic than harmonic....
E. Their appeal is spoilt by stilts; “doth” and
the inflicted “did” are dangers... .J.E.R.: Sorry;
all hopeless.... Gwynplane: Overdone to the point of
obscurity.... Pat: Your versified desire to be run
down by a motor-car so as to get £3OO is noted.
Letters from sporting motorists will be posted on.
.... J.S.G.: Not a good paraphrase... .Pal E.: Not a
hope in life—this or the next R.A.A.: Sonnet is
to poetry what the tailor’s fashion-plate is to the
real suit... .L.R.W.: The “world —old” rhyme stunned
U5....D.8. (Franklin, Tas.): Move-on verse moves
us not... .11.N.5.: All good in parts, but fail through
inability to sustain their goodness'... .F.A.8.: Can’t
work up any excitement over the fact that 56 years
ago you lost, and next day found, £5O in notes....
Bellerive: A gleaning from your nature study:—
Domesticated from kittens,
Sharp creatures arc cats
For wreaking destruction
Upon mice and Rats.
They watcheth and pounce
In a formidable way,
And grimly toy with *
Their helpless prey.
A fascination for puss
Has the smell of fish:
And she’ll quickly steal —
A repast from a Dish.
For their destructive raids
Upon mice and rats,
In homesteads and stores,
Widely popular are cats.
... .N.G.H.: Not quite; inclined to pretentiousness.
.... Pat: Hooray! You’ve found a new rhyme for
“wowsers.” We were getting sick of the “wild
women who want to wear trousers”. .. .Clare H.: Shot
out... .W.K.K.: Conventional ghost story... .C.F.T.:
Tame affair Madge P.: What made you think we
should like to hear all about the missing documents
and other old props, in Sir Godfrey’s castle? Keep
your quite-well-expressed thoughts in Australia....
P.C.T.: Your “Milk” fails. You're a cheerful cow,
anyway !. .. . F-.E.R.: Anthem commencing “Rise
Australians, break the fetters,” so inspired the office
poet that he went home and destroyed his wife’s
marriage certificate F.T.M.: Passed out with great
regret.. . .Ben G.: “Lascar Liz” is plain slops. Publi-
cation in even the 400-circulation paper disqualifies
the other.... J.A.K.: Why versify a prosaic fact of
municipal mismanagement ?.... J.P.: The uplift
crashed M.E.K.: If you could get photo illu-
strations, the Sydney Mail might P.L.8.W.: Good.
But how are we to get ’em to do it? Esto: Too
much of a catalogue F.J.C.: Doesn’t get anywhere,
and contrast is not well done... .Pesco: Says nothing
rather nicely D.E.C.: Neat, but very thin
Selma A.: Lacks polish, but gets very near.
TO ARTISTTO (AND INARTISTIC)
CORRESPONDENTS.
C.0.M.: Couldn’t see eye to eye with the pencilled
suggestion Rob: Labor in vain C.P.: An un-
inspiring lot of straggling lines F.G.A.: Did you
realiy try to make a picture out of it? G.A.M.K.:
Duds... .F.H.: Dull and wretchedly drawn... .D.L.C.:
A parson with a face like that would turn his church
into a sideshow G.T.: Unevenly balanced, and
there’s indecision in your penmanship. . . .G.H.: Turned
down.... S.M.K.: Splintery drawing, and the joke
hasn’t a kick in it W.A.11.: Care little for your
curate and less for your chorus girls.
THE INKY WAY.
“C. 8.” : I have taken The Bulletin for
over 41 years from only two newsagents, the
second of whom acquired from the first the
right to serve the street in which I have
always lived. I first became a subscriber in
my apprenticeship days, when the paper was
threepence, long before the Chowder libel
case.
"Cosmo”: I wish that clever writer and
rhymer, Cripps Clark, would publish a selec-
tion of the nautical chanties lie has been, pro-
ducing for so many years; there must be
hundreds like myself who would care to have
these salt-sea sing-songs in permanent form.
“Two Seas” is a master of this form of
verse, and no wonder, for he began on it
when he was a boy at sea, taking the day’s
happenings for his theme. If the cook
dropped the duff on the galley floor he would
be certain to hear of it when the sailors
next broke into song.
“Harold Hardupp”: Last week £115,000
was refused for a 44ft. fronted strip of
Sydney running from King-street to Rowe-
street. It is a portion of the Norton estate
and includes the Truth offices. A historic
siege took place here some 30 years ago. It
was John Norton’s predecessor on the paper
who found the premises beset by bailiffs, and
being unable to satisfy their claims even-
tually barricaded himself in the building.
Beds were lifted in through the paper hoist
for the use of the beleaguered garrison and
even the skylight was barb-wired; a staff on
the outside gathered news, and the papers,
when they were printed, were lowered to
people who saw about their distribution.
The siege provided Sydney with a lot of
amusement in the middle ’nineties.
“P.X.”: Edward Lincoln, who died at
Manly (N.S.W.) at the week-end, aged 63.
helped to make some Australian newspaper
history. After running various country news-
papers on his own account he got a job as
sub-editor of the Barrier Miner, Broken
Hill. Losing that, he returned to Sydney,
where Edwards Dunlops offered to back him
for a few pounds in a scheme for producing
a free daily at Manly. A. S. Knight, who
had been a partner in the very successful
Barrier Miner, and had settled at Manly,
gave Lincoln further encouragement; and
the thing was soon set on its feet. For a
few months Lincoln did the whole job him-
self —he was a printer by trade —but the time
was just ripe, and the business increased
amazingly. Lincoln’s success set a whole
flock of free suburban dailies on the wing.
Horace Stirling, who died while on a
visit to Adelaide last week, always claimed
to be West Australia’s oldest journalist,
although for the latter half of his life he
had ceased to be a regular pressman. His
father owned the Perth Daily News in the
’seventies and ’eighties, and Horace, who
was born in ’54, started his inky career as
a reporter. In later years he specialised
in reminiscences on all matters connected
with the early history of the State; he had
the pedigree of nearly every prominent citi-
zen at his fingers’ ends and nobody knew
half as much as he about the “Six Families,”
the convict daysi and the political rows
that brightened up life in Groperland before
Responsible Government arrived. He filled
the role, in short, of the Oldest Inhabitant.
He was making the final arrangements for
the publication of a book “Early Days in
Western Australia” when the end came.
“Clerk”: Tiie Bulletin has a small
namesake in these parts in “The Astronomi-
cal Society of Victoria Bulletin,” issued
monthly by and for the select little coterie
of enthusiasts who have been banded together
for the study of astronomy. The paper sum-
marises recent developments in the starry
science, gives early notice of the discovery of
comets, and features short studies and in-
structional notes. John Michie is editor.
Marion Miller Knowles has called it a day
after 30 years’ service with the Victorian
official R.C. organ, the Advocate. Born in
Gippsland of Irish parents, she entered the
Vic. Education Department. Soon she
attracted attention on the Inky Way with her
verse and sliort-story writings, and the
Advocate gave her a more congenial billet.
A big send-off is promised and £l4O was col-
lected at the initial meeting.
“Chlora Form”: The Daily Herald and
Evening Penny Post, of Goulburn
(N.S.W.), have amalgamated. The Herald,
the older of the two, ceases publication, all
the plant and equipment having been carted
across the street to assist in the production
of a daily Post. The Post practically dates
from the regime of Daniel and Gray, who
became the proprietors in 1870, when the
founder of a few months before went down
in a libel action. The Herald was
started in 1848 by W. R. Riley and used
to publish thrice weekly until a company
took it over eight years ago and made it
a daily. W. T. Daniel, the surviving son
of the original Daniel, and /u's two sons.
Tom and Jack, retain a controlling interest
in the reorganised show.
THE SPOT MARKED X.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Let others celebrate the spots
Their infancy or boyhood knew,
A keener sense of values blots
Those rural vistas from my view.
More stirring sights than these I crave,
I simply will not don my specs
To feast my eyes on any save
Those decorated w T ith an X.
For it was there the milkman found
The corpse that weltered in its gore ;
’Twas there the steamer ran aground;
’Twas there the princeling stepped ashore.
Though life elsewhere be stale and flat,
Here it runs on and knows no checks;
There’s always something- doing at
The thrilling spot that wears the X.
I feel I have not loved in vain,
Although I may have loved and lost,
When ’fore my eyes there rises plain
The spot whereon the strokes are crossed.
At haunts of youth or infancy
Let lesser mortals crane their necks;
But it is “Out, damned spot!” with me
For all save those that sport the X.
W.A.
OSCAR WALTERS.


■■■ :! ;■
II!
11l
r i
□
roue
□
□
Bookkeeping Machine
• -r
The Burroughs Bookkeeping Machine gives you information that
will enable you to tell at all times just how each one of your
accounts stands.
This machine also overcomes all trial balance difficulties and since
each account is in continual balance, the task is reduced to merely
listing and adding debit and credit balances on the machine.
It will make it possible for you to send out your monthly statements
promptly on the first of the month, thus speeding up your
collections.
Economy is an outstanding feature of the machine—more than
75 per cent, of the work done by the machine being automatic.
This means speed, accuracy and ease of operation, thus eliminating
the heavy expense of overtime.
If you are interested in efficient bookkeeping you will be interested
in this machine. Let us give you a demonstration. You will not
be obligated in any way. Write for illustrated literature.
Burroughs
Machines
are priced
as low as
£32/10/-
Sole Distributors: IRA L. 8C A. C. BERK
Challis House, Sydney.
’ Phones: FL2611 (Five Lines).
Sydney Melbourne Adelaide Brisbane Hobart
Newcastle Rockhampton Auckland Dunedin Christchurch
LTD
Perth
IVellington
ADDING, BOOKKEEPING AND CALCULATING MACHINES
39t


Cbe Equitable Cite
flssce.
C a
Si's mi
Coy.
of
Australasia Etd.
Head Office:
Parbury House, Eagle Street, Brisbane
Brandies:
N.S.W.: VICTORIA: .
81 Pitt St., Sydney. 8«0 Collin* St., Melb.
Transacts Probate, Life Endoument, Com-
bined Benefits (All Sickness) Assurance,
(Vacancies for Producers with good records.)
FREDK. LEVY, Mg. Director.
ĥ
A TIRING RAILWAY
JOURNEY—
THEN—
what a pleasure to feel the quiet, homely seclusion of
Melbourne’s most select hotel—without equal for refine-
ment, luxury, comfort, efficient service and every modern
convenience. The Hotel Windsor has a brilliant record
as the centre of innumerable official functions and of
being for many years the resort of the most dis-
tinguished visitors from all parts of the world.
REDUCED WINTER TARIFF,
WRITE FOR TARIFF CARD.
Telegrams & Cables: “TeTwinsor,” Melbourne.
Manager: R. C. Jones. ’Phone: Cent. 9260
Address: Spring Street, Melbourne.
RESTFUL COMFORT AT
.Jtotei Maddox
ħ
Motorists' —
Are delighted with the
speed and smooth run-
ning qualities of their
razors when they lather
with
VELVET
SHAVING STICK
Sf. 11«« i. KITCHEN a SONS PTY. LTD.
V
cnc*
VELVET
SHAVING STICK
■HR
SUNDRY SHOWS.
SYDNEY SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Her Majesty’s “Madame Pompadour”
Criterion “The Ghost Train”
Royal. “Rain”
Pai.ach “Cradle Snatchers”
St. James “The Sheik”
Empire “Sunny”
Eli.l,eiis’ , Vaudeville
Tivoi.i Vaudeville
Town Hall Efrem Zimbalist
MKI.HOUR.NE SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Ills Majesty’s “Rose Marie”
King’s “Trilby”
Royal “Frasquita”
Princess “East Lynne”
Athen.eum “Eliza Conies to Stay”
Palace Carter the Great
Tivoli Vaudeville
ituoo Vaudeville
Majestic Moving Pictures
Hoyt’s Moving Pictures
The Russian violinist Efrem Zimbalist,
opening liis Sydney season on Saturday
night, made a good impression at the outset,
and deepened it as he went along. His
playing is strongly emotional, as becomes
one who takes his art seriously, but lie can
deal in humor as well as in pathos. Ilis
tone is not large. His accompanist, Louis
Grecnwald, never played above a whisper,
and the difference between muted and free
strings was so slight that it might have been
overlooked by those who did not see the mute
applied and removed. But Sydney has never
heard a more perfect legato, nor such limpid
liquid sweetness as Zimbalist draws from his
Strad. Technically, his equipment is ade-
quate to his needs. He has not the diamond-
hard brilliance of a Heifetz nor the fierce
vigor of a Kreisier. but lie sings from the
heart and touches responsive chords in the
hearts of his audience. The big piece of
the evening was Hubay’s Concerto in G
minor, rich in melody, copiously ornamented
and laden with sweet melancholy, rising to
climax in a finale of the sort, that gipsy
fiddlers excel in—wave upon wave of fury
and rushing excitement. There was a beauti-
ful example of harmonics in Rameau’s
“Musette,” the more effective because
of the comparatively small volume of
sound from the completely-stopped strings.
Sarasate’s “Zigeunerweisen,” taken very
slowly at the beginning and rather too
rapidly in the final prestissimo—if a prestis-
simo can be too fast —Elgar’s “Kiss of Love,”
Schubert’s sad little dance from the “Mo-
ments Musical” for pianoforte, nnd Drigo’s
“Serenade Arlequin,” modern and melodious,
were acceptable extra numbers. The only
MELBOURNE KING’S—MELBOURNE
REPERTORIANS IN BARRIE’S
“LITTLE MARY.”
Joy Gwyn as Moira Loney, “The Stormy
Petrel,” and Charles Tobin as Cecil, a
young man in the pangs of calf-love.
Russian composers represented were Tschai-
kowsky and Cesar Cui, the former’s Andante
Cantabile movement from the Quartette in
D being a notable example of Zimbalist’s
musicianship. The season promises to be
very successful.
** * *
The packed state of the King’s Hall. Syd-
ney, nightly attests the popularity of Alexander
Watson as an elocutionist. The selections
are varied and generally good; Clark Rus-
sell’s “An Ocean VVaif” was an exception;
....
it is a sentimental puerility. Shakspeare,
Dickens, Kipling and Barrie have all been
generously levied on. with a host of lesser
writers, from W. S. Gilbert to Masefield, and
at least a couple of Australian poets in Quinn
and Souter have been honored. The nightly-
varying programme is to go on at least until
Saturday ; the way Watson’s voice stands the
strain is a tribute to his mastery of easy
delivery.
** * *
Owing to Judith Anderson’s regrettable ill-
ness “Bain,” originally announced for last
Saturday, had to be postponed. In the mean-
lime “The Green Ilat” goes on at the Sydney
Theatre Royal, with Billie Lockwood, the
substituted wearer of the verdant headgear,
imitating Judith with marvellous proficiency.
SYDNEY TIVOLI.
Alexander Carr as the old Jew in his “Tob-
blitzky” sketch, and Achilles, the
comedy juggler of Achilles and New-
man.
Her Majesty’s is unlikely to let “Madame
Pompadour” go for many a week : “The Ghost
Train” maintains its thrills at the Criterion;
and “Cradle Snatchers” fills all requirements
(and seats) at the Palace. But elsewhere
changes are coming. “Sunny” is to sparkle
for the last time at the Empire Theatre on
Saturday night—the 152nd performance. As
the money of 417,000 playgoers had chinked
into the box-office up to the end of last week,
Rufe Naylor /vid his confreres should be on
good terms with themselves. “The Student
Prince” will make his bow on the following
Saturday, and at the Grand Opera House the
hilarious process of “Getting Gertie’s Garter”
will be abandoned in favor of “Not To-night,
Dearie,” wherein Marie La Varre is to assist
the other members of Frank Neil’s company.
“The Sheik” also has another couple of weeks
to run at the St. James; oh Saturday fort-
night the desert landscape will be pushed
aside to make way for the more conventional
surroundings appropriate to “Lady, Be
Good !”
s[: * $ *
The Sydney Fniversity Dramatic Society
proposes to do its bit towards Alma Mater’s
diamond jubilee appeal for funds at the Con-
servatorium on Friday and Saturday nights.
“As You Like It” will be put into modern
habiliments for this occasion.
$ *
Tinder the patronage of the Shakspeare
Society (Syd), Arthur Greenaway will stage
“Julius Caesar” at the Conservatorium Hall
for three nights next mouth. The play will be
produced in the Elizabethan fashion—with
symbolical properties and furniture designed
by Friedensen, the Sydney, artist. The dresses
will be in the correct period.
* K-' * *
The Tivoli programme shows no material
(change. That lively lady, Lee White, is show-
ing herself every bit as bright as when she
first captivated Sydney. Alexander Carr is
entertaining enough to make one wish to see
him in some new stuff, though “Tobblitsky’
does not grow as monotonous as the ordinary
vaudeville repetition. Achilles and Newman
do some thrilling acts which they term
“Grecian Pastimes”; and the Briants con-
tinue as screamingly funny as they were
voted on first acquaintance.
5;: s|s
t, moderate comedy act is supplied by
jKenny and Lear as this week’s addition to the
Fullers’ Sydney programme; the main asset
of one is a high degree of complacency, while
the other has a black face and a good w,us tie
io help him through. As usual the hulk or
the bill is Stiffy and Mo, and the raw m-
decency of a good portion of the alleged
humor begins to demand managerial inter-
ference. In the funniest episode of the
entertainment, “House To net,” there is an
absence of objectionable stuff; here the main
work is done by Stiffy and Daisy Merrett.
Sydney has three genuine attractions for
screen patrons this week. First in popular
favor is the Australian production, “For the
Term of His Natural Life,” that is filling
the Crystal Palace with appreciative and
patriotic fervor, necessitating five screenings
a day. Next in importance is “Ben Hur,”
the hist word in gorgeous pageantry, crowded
with stirring incident and enacted by thou-
sands of players. Breathless thrills are pro-
vided by the chariot race, the sea-battle
between Roman triremes and a huge force
of pirate craft, the agony of the slaves at
the oars, the feud of Roman and .lew. and
the Bible story of Christ. The film shows
the story of the Nativity, with the Virgin,
played by Betty Bronson, a beautiful and
appealing portrait, but with commendable
artistic restraint. No picture of Christ is
presented. In the procession to Calvary
a distant glimpse is caught in the crowd of
a white cross uplifted and a white arm with
its burden. Francis X. Bushman, the Roman,
and Ramon Novarro. the Jew, are arresting
figures. “Ben Hur” should have a record
run at the Prince Edward Theatre. The Ufa
production, “Variety,” at the Piccadilly is
also out of the common.
# * *
Some joys of winter:—
Presumably Percy Lindsay has sold most of the
pictures he painted during the summer; the exhibi-
tion on view at the Australian Fine Art Gallery,
Boomerang House, Sydney, is permeated by wintry
mists, but the joyousness of crisp air and lushly-greeu
grasses is in them, too. The biggest canvas is “The
Bridge Builders,” into which the artist has conveyed
a sense of activity and growth. “St. Augustine’s,
Balmain,” stands magnificent in a veil of mist from
a foreground of green paddock; but it is in some
of the smaller pictures that Percy Lindsay is most
delightful—“ The Mountain Road,” for instance, with
its break of sunlight through ominous clouds which
set the slight landscape below in deep tones, or
“The Bayview Garden,” showing glimpses of cold
blue water through massed trees. “The Market
Garden (Harrowing)” and “The Grey Cottage (Bay-
view)” are small but highly desirable canvases.
The whole gives the impression that the artist has
gone abroad with his soul chanting, and the rhythm
of the song has conveyed itself into his brush.
sj« sj:
Two very sedate young men, who didn’t
appear to have a smile between them, started
to entertain musical Melbourne at the Audi-
torium on Saturday. Heifetz played the
fidddle while Isidor Acbron accompanied him
very carefully on the piano. The fiddler re-
ceived a greater ovation than that accorded
the ageing Paderewski recently. His expres-
sion of an austere but good-looking monk,
gnawed by a secret sorrow, may have con-
tributed to his appeal. A good half of his
programme was given over to startling exer-
cises in pure technique, whose emotional con-
tent was nearly nil. One such exercise was
the “Perpetual Motion” of the almost for-
gotten Ferdinand Reis, which gives the per
former—and his audience—no rest from sta? ‘
to finish. The more subtle aspects of Hei-
fetz’s muse, when his remarkable facility
was married to delicacy of expression, were
stowed away just under the surface of such
pieces as Schubert’s lovely dancing Rondo
from Op. 138 and Debussy’s spooky “Girl
.with the Flaxen Hair.” Full vent was given
to the solemn, passion contained in the Air on
G String, written by Bach when he was
bringing up 60 children on £7 a year, or
something of the sort. The big item of the
evening was Mendelssohn’s one and only
violin concerto. Heifetz poured fire, tender-
ness and rippling mirth into it without chang-
ing his facial expression once.
“Trilby” will be Maurice Moscovitch’s new
mark at Melbourne King’s on Saturday;
“Frasquita,” Marie Burke and Franz Lehar’s
music will be the business at the. Royal, and
“Rose Marie” will continue to he a fair
gatherer of smiles at His Majesty’s for yet
a little. Carter, at the Palace, announces that
when he dies the secrets of his great miracles
will die with him, though this Page knows of
a booklet, readily obtainable at the book-
shops, which reveals the secret of some of
the lesser marvels. “Eliza” still invites you
to sit in an Athenaeum that is warmer than
your drawing-room, and the battle for
“Ypres” is being fought silently at the Play-
house. afternoon and evening. “East Lynne”
ends Muriel Starr’s season, and three nights
remain in which to see the Lady Isobel die
of too much old-fashioned elocution at the
Princess.
** * *
The presence in Melbourne of the Tivoli
Pastelle ballet is raising once again the burn-
ing question as to whether bare legs, when
their knee-blushes are powdered, are a greater
box-office boon than stems encased in the
hosiery manufacturer’s notion of the hues and
texture of human flesh. The verdict in this
ease appears to be that the bare stems have
it; for the ballet’s dancing is distinctly
amateurish. The rest of the programme
is heavy with comedians, and on Monday
Bower and Kutlierford, English musicomedy
stars, were added to Herb Williams and
Dick Henderson.
* * *
Echoes and second-raters pervade Mel-
bourne Bijou for the most part, though
Tubby Stevens, a small English comic, with
a smile like an over-populated cemetery at
sundown, frequently rises well above the
average. George Ward continues to confect
one revue per week. His latest is “The
Suffragettes.” George’s revues are like
going for a ride on the electric horse. There
is plenty of motion but the scenery is
monotonous.
* He * *
Jane Novak is losing one husband and
helping herself to a second serving daily at
Melbourne Majestic in “Lost at Sea.” Later
her first returns from his watery grave. The
frequency with which this happens on the
screen suggests that American wives are
easily convinced. “The Little Brown Jug,”
the supporting picture, is something new in
song and film. Hoyt’s home is well in
advance of its Australian quota with ’ Those
Who Love,” by Marie Lorraine and com-
pany, alias the three talented McDonagh
sisters, of Sydney. The young producers
have certainly only manipulated the conven-
tional film stereotypes, but they have mani-
pulated them very well in spots. The photo-
graphy and the photographed are good and
sentiment is laid on with 4in. mains. In
their next picture the ladies need not be
afraid of using the English language in their
sub-titles. Quite a number of theatre-goers
still understand it.
* >',■ * *
The latest attempt to make Australian
timber vocal is the Manbyphone, which had
a recital all to itself at the Assembly Hall,
Melbourne, one day last week. The new
phonograph is the invention of a Melbourne
man and propagates its noises by means of
the natural resonance of various woods. The
tone is remarkably pure and scratching is
conspicuous by its absence. Beethoven’s
Fifth Symphony, by the Royal Albert Hall
Orchestra, was rendered well, although the
softer parts failed quite to fill the hall.
# ![: $
Bernard Heinze’s University Symphonists
gave their 140th concert at Melbourne Audi-
torium to a large crowd one night last week.
Glazounov’s C minor Symphony (No. 6),
as long and chaotic yet as full of brilliant
character-drawing as a Russian novel, was
the main business of the evening. The young
men and women produced more depth and
volume out of their instruments than on
some previous occasions. At one point in
the first movement the big drum sounded
the end of the world and then committed
“THE CLASSICS,” AT MELBOURNE
TIVOLI.
Dick Henderson sings the Scraping Song
from “Gillette.”
suicide, or appeared to, but it reappeared
in further deeds of valor later on. Mendels-
sohn's “Midsummer Night’s Dream” over-
ture was rendered with delightful grace,
humor and airy fantasy, not a bit resembling
the stage presentations of the redoubtable
Allan Wilkie.
❖ ❖ ❖
A Melbourne shew:
Blamire Young continues to stray in his country
ot peculiar dreams, situated mi.dway between Cloud
(Continued on Page 5-J.)


SOCIAL PROBLEMS
• i
m
t
vin
v
2
ii 1 1,
x<:
9i
\
A, having opened a telephone conversation with the
words, 4 ‘ls that you, darling? This is little Egbert
speaking,” discovers that he is addressing the
darling’s mother.
What should A do?
Most decidedly—LlGHT AN ABDULLA.
Fougasse.
AbdullA SUPERB CIGARETTES
TURKISH
EGYPTIAN
VIRGINIA


The “WILD CAT” MONTHLY for July
NOW ON SALE, PRICE 2/-
CONTAINS REVIEWS
OF
AUTOMOBILE INSURANCE.
BANK OF NEW ZEALAND.
BUSHELLS, LTD.
CHECKER CAB CO. (AUS-
TRALIA).
COLONIAL MUTUAL LIFE AS-
SURANCE SOCIETY.
COMMONWEALTH TRADERS’
INSURANCE CO.
COMMONWEALTH WOOL & TRO-
DUCE CO.
COUNTRY PRODUCERS’ SELL-
ING CO.
ELECTRIC LIGHT & POWER
SUPPLY CORPORATION.
FARMER & CO., LTD.
GOLDSRROUGH, MORT & CO.
GORDON & GOTCH (AUSTRAL-
ASIA). LTD.
KATOOMBA & LEURA GAS CO.
MOREIIEADS. LTD.
MORRIS. HEDSTROM, LTD.
NATION AJ. BANK OF AUS-
TRALASIA.
NICHOLSON & CO.
NORTHERN STEAMSHIP CO.
PERPET. TRUSTEES. ESTATE &
AGENCY CO. OF N.Z.
PRESTIGE, LTD.
PRIMARY PRODUCERS’ BANK
OF AUST.
SINGAPORE HUME PIPE.
SUN NEWSPAPERS, LTD.
VICTORIAN CO-OP. BUTTER
FACTORIES.
A New Market Guide for Investors. Tin Mining Reports.
NO INVESTOR, BIG OR LITTLE, CAN AFFORD TO MISS THIS ISSUE - - 2/-
Cuckoo land and James Branch Cabell’s province of
Poictesme. Judging by his latest show at the
Athenaeum, the climate there is becoming more than
ever beset by fogs and mists of the imagination,
though the occasional emergence of something dimly
resembling an Australian gum helps to restore a
sense of actuality. Theatricality steals upon the
artist along with his advancing years, and in his
large “Tasmanian Pastoral,” depicting Giles and the
squoire’s lady before a typical musical comedy set,
it has him completely in its grip. But he still has
unchallenged jurisdiction over his fluid wash, and
if an effect here and there looks like an accident, it is
a happy one and not, like those of his imitators, an
untidy smash. Few could make water-color jars and
dishes look so solid and none could turn the paper-
bags, banana skins and half-eaten sandwiches of
a suburban picnic into a glimpse of fairyland like
“Eaglemont Carnival.”
** * *
A ten-nights’ season of “Frasquita” lias
just concluded at Adelaide Theatre Royal.
Marie Burke looked all the better for having
gained a few pounds in weight and Warde
Morgan received the inevitable ovation. In
“My Old Dutch,” at the Prince of Wales,
George Cross, as Joe Brown, makes a hit in
the title-song, and Hilda Dorrington scores
as the Widow Malone. The Majestic
Theatre has newcomers in Perryn and Mc-
Leod, purveyors of song and patter, and the
Gayle Wyer Revue Co. exploits another
bright comedy in “Old Japan.” West’s
Pictures feature “Just Another Blonde,”
with an aeroplane smash and a bit of
Coney Island for thrillers. At the York,
“Michael Strogoff” gives patrons their
money’s worth with lurid scenes of debauch-
ery in the camp of the Tartar Khan, a
river of flame sweeping through Irkutsk, and
a ball at the Czar’s palace at Moscow.
“Johnny, Get Your Hair Cut,” at the Won-
dergraph, shows Jackie Coogan in a new
role as the ragged waif who becomes a
jockey. At the Town Hall, Jascha Heifetz
appeared for One Night Only, with the
result that all who had booked for the two
advertised nights were crushed into one.
They decorated the stage like pot-plants,
and the virtuoso had to push through them
to reach the breathing space left by the
piano. It was 5.20 before the crowd, arriv-
ing in massed formation, had shaken itself
down, but there was compensation in the
performance. Wirth’s Circus has just con-
cluded an all-too-brief Adelaide season.
* * jjj
No theatrical show has scored such advt.
in the City of Culture for many a long
day as Adelaide’s SCL when it broadcasted
“An Imaginary Invasion.” Shortly after
eight o’clock an announcer stated that
sensational news had been received but was
not yet officially confirmed; then a scream
rent the air and the announcer broke the
news abruptly that there was an air raid along
the coast, and bombs were being dropped
with serious results. Explosions followed,
along with a realistic imitation of a bombard-
ment,"and it was mentioned that the Port
Adelaide Town Hall was in ruins. Many
women went into hysterics, police-stations,
newspaper offices and fire-brigades were rung
up, and nearly all listeners-in who had
failed to read the night programme in
advance were scared out of their wits. Eng-
lish experience with a similar fake ought to
have warned the fools off such an “enter-
tainment.”
“Caul Boy”: “D.C.T.” (B. 23/6/.*27)
inadvertently pays the stage a high compli-
ment in pointing out how much franker is
the spoken word of drama than the written
word of the press. Nobody,’ except a few
Puritans, is sorry to-day that Shakspoare,
in his great series of historical dramas and
plays like “Measure for Measure,” was miles
more courageous than the ink-slingers of his
time. Or that the Restoration playwrights
painted a truer picture of their society than
the gloomy Cromwellian pamphleteers gave.
It is unfortunate that the coarse lubricities,
of “The Cradle Snatchers” and Stilly and
Mo should shock “D.0.T..” but, the clapping
on of an unintelligent censorship (the reirfedy
usually proposed) would do more harm than
good.
“Hamfat”: Thespians always laugh over
the line in “The Gondoliers” “How like a
band!” it being a theatrical tradition that
the band is always first to strike if disaster
comes. But the band has its causes for com-
plaint. and the public shares its grievances.
One'show in Sydney recently started with' a
big orchestra; although good business was
being done this was reduced to three per-
formers after the first week. The same thing
happens on a smaller scale in ton many
theatres. Worse was what occurred after
the last pantomimes had been given a good
start. Not only were orchestras reduced, but
some of the players, being wanted for other
productions, were taken out and understudies
or substitutes thrown into their parts.
Poverty
Point
WITNESSES BY THE DOZEN.
BEERROHM IRVING: “Ha, sir, I. miss her badly—the stage owes a lot to women!”
JULIUS TREE: “Yes, old chap, landladies can certainly testify to that.”
“liamfat”: The Williamson-Tait firm has
a No. 2 co. with “Katja” and “Kissing
Time.” Stanley Odgers is the lead, with
Adcle Crane, Leo Frarfklyn, Ray Galloway,
Beryl Hayden, Victor Gouriet, Nellie Den-
nis, Roland Roberts and Don Nicol support-
ing. The No. 2 co. was once an institu-
tion. Besides reaping the outside harvest
from metropolitan advertising, it gave oppor-
tunities to understudies and recruits.
“Santander”: The revival of “East Lynne”
in Melbourne recalls the troupe at Sowfat,
where for its one consecutive performance
a local Little Willie was requisitioned. He
turned up at 7 p.m., well soaped and shiny.
Just before the rag went up the stage door
opened and.in came his father, who promptly
booted his offspring, and sent him off home
with the roar: “Dodgin’ th’ milkin’ agen.
Alf!” Alf fil'd ; and that night the manager
had again to ventriloquise Willie from under
the bed of the dying eheild.
“8.0'C.”: In the Brough and Boucicault
days the company was playing “In Honor
Bound” at Adelaide. The action requires
a young girl to sit at the piano and play
soft music while another lady goes to sleep.
As Katharine Hardy, who played the girl,
had a beautiful singing voice, the manager
substituted in the script "Please sing some-
thing soothing” for “Won’t you play some-
thing?” Katharine complied—and Mrs.
Brough slept soundly through a vociferous
encore.
"Caesar's Ghost”: It is only a few years
since Billie Lockwood made a hit as a child
giving child imitations with the Lee White
combination at the Sydney Palace; Judith
Anderson’s misfortune in having an attack
of pleurisy gave her the good fortune of
stepping into the star’s shoes. laterally she
did step in Judith's shoes, for every step
and motion was an imitation of her prin-
cipal. Her imitative work made her appear-
ance almost a sensational success; but the
Firm is not likely to trust her with the
job of originating any star part on the
strength of it. Still, it must feel that a
young lady who can step at a moment’s
notice into a star’s part without the show
suffering any damage is worthy of every
encouragement.
“First Old Man”: It is 20 years since
Barrie’s cleverly-expanded joke, “Little
Mary,” now being done at the King’s. Mel-
bourne, was seen in Australia. Robert
Brough, Herbert Flemming and Beatrice
Day were in the Australian cast on its
first production. The actress was looking
on at the first night of the revival at the
King’s. She will be Mrs. Bagot in “Trilby.”
“Hamfat”: Frank Curzon was a doomed
man long before Call Boy won the English
Derby, and the end came a month after his
colt’s success. Australia has seen a multi-
tudc of plays that Curzon produced. lie
inherited an oil business but took to the
stage, one of his early appearances being
in “Our Boys,” after which ho had a good
training with P. It. Benson. With Charles
Hawtrey hi l produced “A Message from
Mars” and “Lord and Lady Algy,” following
up those two successes with the money-
making “Chinese Honeymoon.” He closed
his stage career four years ago.
“Goldilocks”: “I’ve made Sydney my home,”
the imported actor said. “Wife going to
get a divorce?” a pal inquired. It passed
as a jest, made pardonable by intimacy. But
Sydney is becoming a Reno with theatrical
people; to local cases are added those of
English and American performers who bring
their matrimonial disputes to Sydney for
final adjustment. The frequency of these
affairs distresses my old friend J. Hamilton
Howler. “It shows what is coming
to, begad!” lie complains. “In my days, when
actors were actors, nobody ever worried
about divorce.”
“Lond”: Gerald Du Maurier has just
figured in a lawsuit involving a pretty point.
Old Squire Bancroft’s will left him “Diplo-
macy,” that fine 50-year-old success trans-
lated from Sardou. Evidently the play still
has value, for Bancroft sold the cinema rights
of it, just 10 days before lie died, for £l5OO.
Having sold them, were they his to bequeath
at the time when lie died? The Court de-
cided that Du Maurier takes the lot.
“Santander”: It can be said of Piran-
dello’s “Six Characters in Search of an
Author,” turned on for four nights by the
Melbourne Repertory Theatre, that it causes
enthusiasm and dejection in equal parts.
In New York, where it was first tried in
English, the management, evidently fearing
an invasion of ribald morons, put up a
placard at the stalls entrance reading: “No
tools admitted here.” Few called, and one
who did was coarse enough to add: “Try
stage door.”
“Caul Boy”: The Tivoli Follies (B.
30/6/’27) are by no means the last word in
Yankee notions for keeping the legitimate
stage abreast of the cinema. In N’York to-
day the atmosphere of a piece is maintained
even in the intervals. One management run-
ning a crook drama keeps the sensation
going with gazettes of the latest hold-ups and
criminal assaults occurring in the real world
outside. Another broadcasts radio descrip-
tions of the newest and most fashionable
murders while the corpse is growing cold.
In another the lights suddenly disappear, a
revolver shot rings out and one of the per-
formers falls. Hordes of police rush in,
the doors are locked and nobody is allowed
to leave until the miscreant is located.
Women faint and strong men are batoned
by the cops. Meanwhile the play has been
converted into a wild inquiry into the motive
for the crime.
“Hud”: James White, the managing-
director of Daly’s Theatre, London, who
committed suicide the other day, took over
the musical-comedy house when there was
no serious opposition to the George Edwardes
type of song-and-dance play. White carried
on the Edwardes tradition till Drury Lane
reverted to musical productions and staged
that remarkable draw, “Rose Marie.” From
that time, two and a half years ago, Daly’s
has been on the down grade; the failure of
the last production, “The Blue Mazurka,”
in which Gladys Moncrieff appeared, seems
to have been the last straw ; and when the
announcement went forth that it wrns to be
withdrawn everyone in the theatre knew
that the management was in difficulties.
White was a gambler; and in the greatest
of all gambles, theatrical management, luck
went against him.
“Adam Ant”: Eileen Sparks, now playing
lead with Moscovitcli in Melbourne, was
starring with one of Phillip • Lytton’s com-
panies in a war drama when she had to appeal
distractedly to a German officer to save her
lover’s life. Kneeling and frantically clutch-
ing the legs of the Boche she pleaded: “But
think, think! You are a mother, it’s true,
but you had a man once!” That put the
lid on it.
“Flaming Youth”: Alexander Watson’s
remarkably successful season at the King’s
Hall draws attention to Sydney’s lack of
any intermediate hall for entertainment pur-
poses. Years ago, when Sydney was, com-
paratively speaking, a village, the Centenary,
in York-street, filled the gap ; now that the
Adyar has been leased for regular entertain-
ments. there is nothing between the 3000-
capacity Town Hall and the King’s, which
holds 600. Apart from any other considera-
tions, the Town Hall acoustics are murder
to an elocutionist, especially if the hall is
not full. I have elocuted there, so I know-
“ Shoot, Darn Yuh”: Hollywood’s predi-
lection for garbage and its hold on the local
theatres have got Victorian producers in a
funny hole. Under the new State law when
a film has been passed as not suitable for
the digestion of infants from 6 to 16 years
of age, the youngsters may not see it. As
theatre-owners are compelled to buy their
evening’s entertainment in one block, the
first part of a programme may be 0.k., while
the second part may be under the ban—or
rice versa. The entrepreneur is therefore
faced with the dilemma of having to drag
infants from their dams and of looking after
them while their parents stay on to witness
“The Adulteries of Angeline.” If they don’t
stay on they should be entitled to half their
money—and so should the children. The
Federal Censor says that at least 40 p.c.
of films are unfit for juveniles, and, if I
know the Australian kid and his guardians,
there should be some bloody battles fought
amongst the seats.
“Emel” : Some of the American film pro-
ducers remember that their country is strictly
Prohibition only in spasms. In “The Wan-
derer,” based on the story of the Prodigal
Son, when the repentant youth is pardoned
the father orders the death of the fatted
calf, saying, “Let us eat and be merry.”
Even scripture must be altered in the films
so as not to mention “drink.”
THE MELODRAMA CONVENTION.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
It’s very well to do
The heavy last-act stuff —
A pistol and your brains about the stage
When you have had enough !
It’s very well to shed
The. fine heroic tear:
To let your worthless rival take the call
And simply disappear!
When you have learnt the gags,
And have your business pat,
You can play pretty much the part you
please—
Nothing so hard in that!
But when the grease-paint’s off,
And you’re a naked thing:
No limelight, and no pads and no receipts,
And no lead left to swing,
How will it; fare you then —
You little sneaking mime
Convention, with your ranting and your
rouge—
With the areh-Critie. Time?
QUEENSLAND.
LLYWELYN LUCAS.


Shipping.
WINTER TOURS
Escorted Tours to
JAVA : : MALAYA
SIAM : : JAPAN
Independent Inclusive Tours to
HONOLULU, CALIFORNIA,
BRITISH COLUMBIA,
SOUTH AFRICA, CEYLON,
NORTH QUEENSI.AND.
WINTER SPORTS AT:
Mount Buffalo ( Vic.), Mount Cook (N.Z.),
South Sea Island Cruises.
Special Programme Post Free from
THOS. COOK & SON,
MELBOURNE:
269 Collins Street.
SYDNEY:
Martin Place.
ADELAIDE:
49a Grenfell Street.
PERTH:
22 Forrest Street (Opp. G.P.0.).
BRISBANE, via BYRON BAY
Through Tickets to Brisbane issued.
S.S OHARA—Every Saturday evening; passengers
Brisbane Monday afternoon.
S.S. WOLLONC BAR—Every Tuesday evening;
passengers due Brisbane Thursday afternoon.
Both vessels fitted with Wireless Receiving Sets.
FAKES BRISBANE;
Steamer and Motor throughout, Single, £4
Steamer and Motor throughout, Return, £7/5/-
St earner and First-class Rail, Single, £3/15/-
Steamer and Second-class Rail, Single, £3/8/-
NOrtTH COAST S. N. CO., LTD.,
Passengers’ Booking Office:
TOURIST BUREAU, OiI.ALL IS HOUSE,
MARTIN PLACE, SYDNEY.
Brisbane Booking Agents; Burns, Philp and Co., Ltd.
PAUSE AWHILE IN SUNNY
HAWAII
Enjoy eternally balmy weather —in novel setting
of tropical moonlight and melody, quaint tea-
rooms, Oriental bazaars. Exciting surfing and
outrigger canoeing at Waikiki. Enchanted
cruises to the lovely islands of Kauai, Maui
and Hawaii. Golf and motor on all principal
islands. A vacation that is different. Good
hotels from 12/- to £3 per day, with meals.
No extra cost for “stop-over” privilege en
route to America or Europe. Round-trip,
Sydney and return, 8 weeks or less (3 or 4
weeks in Hawaii), £lOO to £l5O, inclusive.
Ask nearest travel or steamship agent; or
write Hawaii Tourist Bureau, Dept. 26, Box
241 D, G.P.0., Sydney, N.S.W., for full infor-
mation in attractive booklet, attaching this
advertisement.
PLAN NOW TO ENJOY
HAWAII
Banking', Public Companies, etc.
The Australian Bank of Commerce Limited
Authorised Capital £5,000,000
Capital Paid Up and Reserves .. .. £2,685,303
Aggregate Assets at 30tli June, 1926 ..£16,789,590
Directors: Sir Mark Sheldon, K.8.E., Chairman;
Frank N. Yarwood ; H. R. Lysaght, 0.8. E. ;
George J. Spy, LL.D.; Lieut.-Col. T. L. F. Rut-
ledge ; James Kell.
General Manager: C. M. C. Shannon.
Chief Inspector for N.S.W.: W. G. Hull.
HEAD OFFICE, SYDNEY (Corner George and King
Streets).
Branches and Receiving Offices at 158 places in
New South Wales.
BRISBANE (264 Queen Street).
Chief Inspector for Queensland: L. Avetard.
Manager: G. H. Howell.
Branches and Receiving Offices at 27 places in
Queensland.
MELBOURNE (325 Collins Street).
Manager: M. B. Finney.
ADELAIDE (35 Bundle Street).
Manager: It. T. Moodie.
PERTH, W.A. (73 St. George’s Terrace).
Manager: A. C. Dirdin.
LONDON (37 Threadneedle Street, E.C.2),
Manager: A. F. Jenkins.
London Directors ;
A. Dodds Fairbairn, Alfred Shepherd, James Tuke.
Agents throughout Australia. Tasmania and New
Zealand, and at all the Chief Cities of the World.
Every description of Banking Business Transacted.
Bank of New Zealand.
SYDNEY BRANCH:
Corner GEORGE anti WYNYARD
STREETS.
Guaranteed Stock .. .. .. £529.988
Preference Shares .. .. .. 1,875,000
Ordinary Shares . . . . . . 3,750,000
Reserve Fund and Undivided Profits 3,390,378
GRANTS DRAFTS on Australia > New
VJiV.an 1 O Rival X O Zealand, Fiji, Samoa,
Great Britain and Ireland, and other places.
RECEIVES DEPOSITS f O r2K
periods and transacts all other usual Banking business.
The Bank of Adelaide
(Incorporated 1865.)
BRISBANE OFFICE: 303-307 QUEEN STREET
PERTH OFFICE: ST. GEORGE’S TERRACE ‘
Also FREMANTLE, W.A
MELBOURNE OFFICE: 267 COLLINS STREET
SYDNEY OFFICE: 279 GEORGE STREET. *
Authorised Capital £2,000,000
Subscribed Capital, increased to .. 1,000 000
Paid Up Capital, „ „ .. £1,000,000
Reserve Fund, , 850,000
„ £1,850,000
Reserve liability of shareholders,
increased to 1,000,000
£2,850,000
Head Office: ADELAIDE, SOUTH AUSTRALIA.
Also 114 Branches and Agencies in South Australia.
London Office: 11 LEADENHALL STREET, E.C.
Agencies in all Australian States and throughout
the world.
Drafts and Letters of Credit issued on London, America
and elsewhere. Bills from abroad collected and pro-
ceeds remitted. All usual banking business transacted.
If any illustration in The Bulletin takes
your fancy, write to the Manager, who will
quote you price for the original.
Shipping, etc.
CANADA, UNITED STATES,
UNITED KINGDOM
FORTNIGHTLY SAILINGS FROM SYDNEY.
CANADIAN-AUSTRALASIAN ROYAL MAIL LINE.
via Auckland, Suva (Fiji), Honolulu, Victoria and Vancouver.
UNION ROYAL MAIL LINE
via Wellington, Rarotonga, Tahiti and San Francisco.
TAHITI 7,900
NIAGARA .... 13,415
MAKURA 8,075
AORANGI 17,490
JULY 14, for San Francisco.
JULY 28, for Vancouver.
AU(«. 11, for San Francisco.
August 25, for Vancouver.
Fast and splen-
didly equipped
steamers using
oil fuel.
Spacious Decks,
Unrivalled
Cuisine.
wfe i I V 1
rnpniii "Pf
V 1
The Scenic
Routes to the
United Kingdom,
via South Sea
Islands, Canada,
United States.
TICKETS TO THE UNITED KINGDOM INTERCHANGEABLE FOR
RETURN BY OTHER LINES.
HONOLULU EXCURSIONS BY AORANGI AND NIAGARA.
UNION STEAM SHIP CO.
f Union House, 24 7 George Street, Sydney.
\ William Street, Melbourne.
MACDONALD, HAMILTON & CO., Brisbane, Adelaide and Perth.
SOUTH SEA TOURS
Attractive Island Trips, occupying about Weeks.
SiX-WEEKLY SAILINGS FROM SYDNEY TO
Now Britain ■ S.s. "MONTORO” (5000 tons)
ICIf £I (I 111 ■ Sails August 9 and September 20.
Ulan/ls- ss “MATARAM” (3500 tons)
•301OfltOil UldlWlS. Sails July 20 and August 31.
A Delightful Holiday in Island Wonderlands.
For Particulars apply—
BURNS, PHILP & CO., LTD.,
Sydney, Melbourne, Adelaide and Brisbane.
h
ĥ
f<o2*
BURNS, PHILP & CO., LTD.,
Passenger Booking Agents for All Steamship Lines
To
ENGLAND
EUROPE
AMERICA
CANADA
AFRICA
INDIA
JAPAN
CHINA
JAVA, etc.
At regular passage rates. No extra charge.
Attractive Tour to
NOUMEA, JAVA, HONOLULU, COLOMBO, etc.
VISIT JAVA (The wonderland of the East).
Regular monthly sailings of the s.s. “Marella” and
m.s. “Malabar” to Java and Singapore via Queensland
ports, Thursday Island, Darwin, etc. Smooth-water trip,
Deck Cabins, interesting ports of call.
APPLY
BURNS, PHILP & COMPANY, LIMITED,
WORLD TOUR and TRAVEL DEPARTMENT.
7 BRIDGE STREET, SYDNEY.
BANK OF
PAID-UP CAPITAL
RESERVE FUND .. ..
RESERVE LIABILITY ..
NEW SOUTH
Established 1817.
A
WALES.
.. .. £6,875,000
.. .. 1,750,000
.. .. 6,875,000
£18,500,000
Directors:
Thomas Buckland, Esq., President.
The Hon Reginald J. Black, M.L.C.
Charles Binnie, Esq.
James Burns, Esq.
Robert L. Faithfull, Esq.,
Robert W. Gillespie, Esq.
Franc B. S. Falkiner, Esq.
M.D.
Auditors: W. H. Palmer, Esq.; S. E. Laidley, Esq. General Manager: OSCAR LINES.
Head Office—George Street, Sydney. London Office—29 Threadneedle Street, E.C. 2.
477 Branches and Agencies in the Australian States, Federal Territory, New Zealand, Fiji, Papua,
Mandated Territory of New Guinea and London. Agents and Correspondents throughout the world*
Cable remittances made to. and drafts drawn on Foreign places DIRECT. Foreign Bills
negotiated and collected, Letters of Credit Issued, negotiable throughout the world.
The Commercial Banking Company
of Sydney Limited
ESTABLISHED 1834.
CAPITAL PAID UP £4,6 71,712 10 0
RESERVE FUND 3,850,000 0 0
RESERVE CAPITAL 4,723,187 10 0
£13,244,900 0 0
Directors *
GEORGE J. COHEN, Chairman; Hon. SIR THOMAS HUGHES, M.L.C., Deputy
Chairman: Hon. JAMES ASHTON, M.L.C.: Major-General the Hon. J. W.
MACARTHUR ONSLOW, V.D., M.L.C.; Sir WILLIAM VICARS, C.B.E.
General Manager: J. R. DRYHURST.
HEAD OFFICE: Sydney, 343 George Street.
London Offices —18 Birchin Lane, Lombard St., E.C.3, and 69 King William St., E.O.
Branches throughout Queensland, New South Wales and Victoria and Branch at Adelaide South
Australia. Agencies throughout Australia and New Zealand, and all other parts of the ’World.
All Classes of General Banking and Exchange Business Transacted.
SAFE DEPOSIT VAULTS.—lnspection invited. Particulars of
Safe Rentals on application.
Shipping, etc.
Inter-State Steamship
Sailings.
(Passenger Sailings—Circumstances permitting.)
FOR MELBOURNE, ADELAIDE and FREMANTLE
(Transhipping at Melbourne for Geelong and other
Victorian ports; at Adelaide for S.A. Gulf ports;
and at Fremantle for Perth, Bunbury, Geraldton
and North-West Ports).
FOR QUEENSLAND PORTS
(Transhipping at Brisbane for Maryborough, Bunda-
berg. and Gladstone, and at Townsville for out port«).
"Brisbane. Mackay (no cargo for Mackay), Townsville
and Cairns.
Huddart Parker L|si'
Magnificent
Fast Passenger
Steamship}
STEAMERS TO NEW ZEALAND —Regular sailings
from Sydney to New Zealand ports and vice versa.
Particulars to be obtained on application.
STEAMERS TO TASMANIA—From Sydney to Hobart
and vice versa as per daily papers. Between Mel-
bourne and Launceston as per 1 ” papers.
For full particulars apply HUDDAIiT PAKKEII LIMITED
Collins Street, Melbourne; Bridge Street, Sydney.
Interstate Telegraphic address:
“NALDHAM.”
Cable address
“NALDHAM’
Macdonald, Hamilton 8 Co.
247 George Street, Sydney.
Shipping Agents, Merchants, Colliery
Proprietors, Tug and Tighter Owners.
MANAGING AGENTS FOR
Australasian United Steam Navigation Co., Ltd.
Fitzroy Estates, Etd.
Blackheath Collieries, Etd., and Caledonian
Collieries, Etd.
Eastern & Australian Steamship Co., Etd.
AGENTS FOR
British-India S. N. Co., Ltd. P. & O. S. N. Co.
Queensland Line of Steamers. Scottish Shire Line
(Turnbull, Martin & Co.). New Zealand Shipping Co.,
Ltd. Canadian-Australasian Royal Mail Line, San
Francisco Service (Union S. S. Co.), Union S. S. Co.
of New Zealand, Ltd. Hain Line. Huddart Parker,
Ltd. London Assurance Corporation (Marine). Mel-
bourne Agents for Messageries Maritimes Co. Queens-
land Agents for Sea Insurance Co., Ltd.
BRANCHES at Perth, Fremantle, Adelaide, Port
Adelaide, Melbourne, Suva (Fiji), Brisbane, Mary-
borough, Bundaberg and Bowen.
Australian Mutual
Established
1849.
Head Office:
87 Pitt St., Sydney
Provident Society
The Largest and Most Successful
Mutual Life Office in the British Empire,
Distributes a Cash Bonus Every Year.
Amount Distributed for single year 1926 £2,887,200
Yielding Reversionary Additions to
Policies of over £4,893,000
Accumulated Funds £63,600,000
Annual Income .. .. .. .. £9,600,000
The Society transacts Every Class of Ordinary
and Industrial Assurance Business.
H. W. APPERLY, F.S.S., General Manager.
Hotel
Kosciusko
Early Winter
Tourist Concession
Ticket.
First-Class Return]
Rail, Motor, [
3J Days Hotel. J
£8146
July and August excepted.
Bookings and Further Particulars at —•
N.S.W. Government
TOURIST BUREAU
Challis House, 8 Martin Place,
Sydney.


Graham Brothers
trucks
High Quality
The reason for the consistently profitable
operation of Graham Brothers Trucks is
found at the great Graham Brothers factories,
where high quality is the requisite that rules.
High quality is insisted upon in selection of
materials, the grade of steels used and in the
treatment of the metals.
High quality of workmanship is demanded
of the thousands of workers---from skilled
engineer to lowliest laborer.
High quality of performance is a natural
result-—familiar to owners in all lines of
business all over the world.
Canada Cycle & Motor Co. (Victoria) Pty., Ltd., Melbourne.
Austral Motors, Limited, Brisbane, Townsville.
The Standardised Motors, Ltd., Sydney.
Waymouth Motor Co., Ltd., Adelaide.
Winterbottom Motor Co., Ltd., Perth.
Built by Truck Division of DODGE
BROTHERS, INC., sold by Dodge
Brothers Dealers everywhere.
1- Chassis £325
Chassis £445
2- Chassis £485
2-ton Chassis (Long Wheel-base) £515
I L
o
N
l
❖>> '*■ TS'v • V> >o<V\|.X///.x^x^X^VX><^>?WxV^
fci 1
JL_
r
a
*
o
\
Vw
0
1111 'lllllll I 111.
'■film ii
iU
7/7/'27.


ħ
h
Miss LILY BRAITLING,
a beautiful Rexona Girl,
writes: “I have always
used Rexona Soap and
I find that for shampoo-
ing the hair it is abso-
lutely par excellence, and
/ would use no other.”
Girls! Beauty is all Supreme
Rexona Girls are world-famous for their beautiful skin and hair. To
be a Rexona Girl is to use only Rexona Soap and enjoy that natural beauty
of the skin and hair which cannot be imitated, but can be obtained by its
regular use.
Ordinary toilet soaps do not assert this influence. Many of them
contain free alkali, which tends to dry the skin and destroy its delicate
texture. Even the best of such soaps can only cleanse, they cannot heal
and protect the skin.
Rexona Soap contains the same soothing, healing, antiseptic balms as
Rexona, the Rapid Healer, the value of which in the treatment of skin affec-
tions is known throughout the world.
Simply use Rexona Skin and Facial Soap regu-
larly once or twice a day and see if it does
not quickly soothe and
cleanse the pores, lessen
the tendency to pimples
and leave the complexion
clear, fresh and velvety.
REXONA
SOAP.
Sor Wealth
<vdJseaiUy
mi
1/-
' ' -r-
• ~ J.. A.............. • ~• -. ... til
WM:
J
;
■ W:
: :.
m
i«jig
a
' 4 # -v^ai
Mfe
Y,l
Km: f|
li-r.
:
11
- m- *
o
o
©
Chocolates
u l do like my Daddy—see
what he's brought me home!"
The Famous Red Box of Chocolates.
Mailed to you the day they are made.
Prices:
3/-, 5/6, 6/-, 10/-, 12/6,
20/- and 30/-
Post free to tinv address in Australia.
dfieStHiiiicl
162-66 PITT STREET.
BRANCHES:
OR. GEORGE AND KING
STREETS;
CASTLEREAGH STREET
(Next Theatre Royal),
SYDNEY.
Send for Catalogue illustrated
with reproductions of our con-
fectionery in colors.
Marching Song.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
EARLY morning—childhood—spring—
Unspoiled dew on everything:
Rosy cloud-wings in the skies,
Kittens scampering, larks that rise;
Cherry-blossoms raining pearl
On a happy little girl—
Such a little girl, and so
Trustful of that transient g10w!...
Were the words within her ken
For the faith that she held then,
This the wonder she’d be saying:
Every day's a new adventure,
Every hour's a game worth playing.
Wise and simple little elf!
That small girl was I myself
Many moons and suns ago
When I had not heard of woe.
Rut I saw Life’s claws unsheath,
Rut I felt Life’s greedy teeth
Crip and shake me like a rat.
Toss me bleeding; spite of that,
Spite of fear, and loss, and care,
I must hear a vagrant air
Like a fairy fiddler straying:
Every day's a new adventure,
Every hour's a game worth playing.
Up the veiled and stony road
Each one takes his secret load.
Up the dark road till it ends
Let me march with you, my friends,
Learning, saints and fellow-sinners,
That the losers are the winners
When they lose with lifted head;
Learning that when tears are shed
Each for others’ they are more
Sweet than joy’s own treasure-store.
Praise is truthfuller than praying:
Every day's a new adventure,
Every hour’s a game worth playing.
Let me march, my friends, with you
Who have tried and found it true.
When I falter mine the blame,
Not the rulings of the game
Which for every stinging smart
Grants in hope another start.
Comrades, lovers, growing old,
Re our record writ in gold—
We have proved in glorious sooth
Faithful to the creed of youth,
Clear-eyed when our hair is greying:
Every day’s a new adventure,
Every hour's a game worth playing.
VICTORIA.
ELSIE COLE.
The Second Matchet Operation.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
LIFE, Death and the Universe had met
rough treatment at our young hands.
Midnight coffee had long cooled in our
cups and our cigarette ash lay around us
like the remains of the philosophies we had
pulverised with all the gusto of young
scientific men, and medicoes to boot.
“The smashed vertebrae case in my ward
died last night.” Felloe’s voice broke the
pause that had fallen upon us. “He lasted
longer than I expected. But only a Matchet
could have saved him.”
"No one game to try'.' 1 ” asked Mellon, in
his fourth year and bitten by the lust for
cutlery that seems to fall on fourth-year
men.
“No. James might, have tried, but he was
away. Anyhow, the Matchet has been done
only once and will never be done again.”
He paused to let this sink into our minds.
As he did so, old Dobson, our ancient and
revered neurologist, who had sat listening
the whole night to our mental gambolling,
saying little, smiling faintly now and again
at the more audacious of our tilts at the
Universe, sat up, removed his pipe, and said:
“You’re wrong. It has been done twice.”
We sat staring at him a moment.
"But everyone knows ” began Felloe,
with the emphasis of one who finds a matter
of common knowledge denied.
“Nevertheless, it has been done a second
time. I know, because I saw it myself,
that second Matchet operation.”
We all turned and observed him distrust-
fully.
To grasp the full significance of his words
you must understand that the Matchet opera-
tion is one of those brilliant thrusts into
the darkness of applied science that occur
now and again to startle the medical world,
and that may be repeated at odd and rare
intervals by the more brilliant specialists in
exceptional cases. The Matchet was recent
enough for us to remember the details —the
entry of the workman crushed by a falling
derrick load, the hasty preparation for a
hopeless operation, the sudden appearance
of Matchet, big, solemn and untidy, with his
amazing hands and his queer habit, in excite-
ment, of brushing imaginary flies from his
head, even during operations; his theory of
pressure on the vertebral ganglia, that he
so brilliantly put forward in his subsequent
report of the operation; the slow recovery
of the workman, with only a slightly stiff
neck to show where the knife of a genius had
raised the crushed bone from the medulla
and freed the great pneumonic ganglia. ...
And Matchet’s death, a month later, in a
carelessly driven car.
“You mean to say you saw the Matchet
done a second time? By whom and when?
Purely it would have been known!”
Old Dobson cleared his throat and picked
up his pipe again.
“I have listened to much this evening that
I have disagreed with. You will understand
liow it is that the second Matchet operation
was never recorded or spoken of.”
, He refilled his pipe and swallowed the cold
dregs of his coffee.
“You remember Matchet, of course? His
size and his fly-complex—the fly-catching
fiabit in excitement that the Freudians of you
tried to explain by disgraceful episodes in
us childhood—and his way with the nurses
(turing an op.? Blows caricatured him, I
believe, performing a pendectomy with phan-
his’head 10 bluebottles as bi 2 as birds about
"You did not know he was engaged’ Of
course not. He would tell few people a thing
like that. It doesn t matter now. I knew
t e girl well She was not beautiful; but
with M f C T’ blg A S< ? lemn and impatient
th the stupidity of the world-—she gave
that Si h° ,V? dVCUtUrin? s, ml : something
that never hurt him, never failed him, always
took him into peace and calmness and an
atmosphere of perfect love. He bored her
terribly, I believe, with his scientific lectures
on their walks together. But I remember
them always coming home together arm in
arm, Matchet inclined to be boyish and
certainly sentimental, and she, worshipping
him, assuming- a firm proprietorial air about
his food and laundry and tobacco bills. He
was to have married her in June.
“Then came the famous Matchet operation,
and Matchet’s death.
“I was afraid for Marjorie—that was her
name—for months. It takes people many
ways, things like that. She was stonelike.
Very little mourning, and no great change in
her habits. But there were times —at
parties; when entertaining friends at the
house; during a piece of music played care-
lessly—when I felt that Marjorie was not
there; naught but an automaton of flesh and
bone, talking—talking- well and interestingly
—on impersonal, intellectual subjects to a
friend. It was uncanny sometimes. I con-
fess that so strongly did this feeling come
iilxm .me that. I even tried several queer
experiments with her whose resultsl are
amongst the reasons why I disagree with you
materialists to-night. One day, when my
book is written, you will learn about them,
and perhaps lose a little of your cocksure-
ness.
. And there were little signs—unconscious
tics and reflex jerks—that made me keep
near, watching in case of accidents. Repres-
sions are dangerous things. She had loved
t y O ( much for one human being.
Carruthers, that youngish surgeon in
T Hospital, began to take a good deal of
interest in her after a while. He had a
car and took Medecine lightly. She acqui-
esced, impersonally, in his attentions. I
used to watch them drive out together in the
spring mornings, he chatting amusingly and
flirtatiously, she answering and responding
well to Ins mood; and they’d come back for
lunch, he puzzled and serious and very tender
towards her, she detached and cool and with
j a £automatism upon her; and the mysterv
of life redoubled for me.
;;Up° n one of these drives it happened.
• ■ , ? fl hone ra »8 at my place, and I rose
irritably from lunch to answer it.
Oarruthers’s voice spoke, trembling
with fear and agitation.
. “ ‘Accident. Our car ran into a rut avoid-
ia S a cart, and overturned. Marjorie is in
the local hospital. I don't know what to
do with her. Spine badly injured. She's
conscious, hut sinking rapidly. Can you
come out?’
“I dropped the receiver and ran to the
cai with my old student case of instruments.
It was a ten-mile rush, over the worst of
loads, and I was wet with perspiration when
I arrived. The hospital was small but neat
enough, put up by the local farmers, with a
matron and a nurse in charge and a quite
modern installation. I found Carruthers
beside Marjorie, still dazedly examining her
back and feeling the spinal vertebrae. He
looked up as I entered and rose to his feet.
I cut his explanations short and made a
quick diagnosis. She was conscious and
i ecognised me, and after a few personal
words I began testing her reflexes.
Everything pointed to the worst. Total
paralysis of the motor centres of the lower
«“L and ra Pid!y failing pulse and lungs,
bhe came down on her back on the
rocks, with one wheel on her,’ Carruthers ex-
plained ‘There are vertebrae fractured and
crushed
“I stood upright and shrugged. There
was nothing to be done. The spine is a
cunous thing. One inch up or down, and
the injury may miss a vital place. But the
plexi must not be injured, for they control
10 viscera and vital organs. In her spine
there were two places where the bone had
entered and badly wounded certain of these
piexi. Death was a matter of a few hours.
Carruthers had gone out of the room at
my shrug. He said afterwards that he went
into the dispensary for morphia in case of
pain.
“Suddenly he came striding back into the
room. To my amazement, he pushed me
a ! 1( " and began a systematic re-examination
of Marjories spine with the tips of liis
fingers. His manner was utterly different
trom usual; abrupt, harsh and commanding.
1 was too surprised to make a protest. I
could only watch him repeating what he
had been doing when I first found him, but
with a new decision and firmness. At
iength he stood up and said: ‘lt’s a case for
a Matchet. We 11 operate at once before the
heart gets any weaker.’ Then he went to
the door and called to the matron, who had
lert the room.
words® Came hurryins back at his sharp
“‘Know the Matchet operation?’ he de-
manded.
“ ‘No,’ she said, puzzled.
Well, we’re going to perform it at once,
cet me and he enumerated the instru-
nej^ and outlined the procedure.
As she left the room to execute his
shocked burned on him, astounded and
Good God, man ! W hat’s come over you ?’
I exclaimed. ‘You can’t do the Matchet.
It s death for the girl. How do you know
the Matchet is needed?’
“He answered me not a word. He walked
up and down for a few moments and then
seemed to reassure himself by feeling again
the two torn and livid places on the spine
where he was going to operate.
“I tried to attract his attention by pullin®-
at his arm, but he took no notice. I expos”
tulated, threatened, pleaded, but he still did
not reply. He was not the same man • not
the rather weak, flippant individual who had
had intentions towards Marjorie, hut a dis-
similar, frightening person, with eyes for no
on f;J?, ut the pe °P le carrying out his orders
The nurse came in with hot water and
antiseptic, and set about preparing Mariorie
for the operation. I found myself being
abruptly onlered to act as anesthetist, follow-
ing Carruthers meekly to the theatre where
we donned overalls and masks and cleaned
our hands.
“Carruthers ordered us to our places I
put Marjorie under the chloroform. And the
operation commenced.
“And by the time the thing was finished I
was sweating with fear. .. .
“Marjorie was carried out to a special
(Continued on next page,)


Billabong Windmills
Pumps and Troughing
Are the Products of our Melbourne and Sydney Factories. Our many
years’ experience in the making of Pumping and Irrigation Machinery
has produced Windmills, Pumps, etc., most suitable for the conditions of
this country, and Billabong Machinery has great advantage over the
imported. Being
Made in Australia
Repair Parts are more easily obtained*
' 'M3
m
r
v
This Photograph
shows, clearly, the superior strength of our Windmill. All the gearing
is double and works in an Oil Bath. Thus in the Billabong you have a
Powerful, Easy-running and Long-life Mill. With the Perfect Lubrication
of the
“Billabong” Encased-gear Windmill
Wear and tear is practically nil. Another Billabong feature: a strong
Cast-iron Casement completely encloses the Head and forms the Oil
Bath. This is RAINPROOF, DUSTPROOF, LEAKPROOF.
The Billabong Casement is far away the best.
Full Particulars and Prices ( F. 0.8. Melbourne) Post Free on lequest.
JOHN DANKS & SON PTY. LTD.
U
391-403 BOURKE ST. MELBOURNE
324-330 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
ward. I went to the linen-basket to put off
my overalls and mask, and heard a curious
gasping sound behind me and a noise as of
somebody stumbling against the operating-
table. I whipped round.
“Carruthers was standing with a dazed,
weak expression on his face, looking at his
bloodstained fingers and overalls as if he
had never seen such objects before.
“‘What’s the matter, man?’ I asked, mov-
ing towards him.
“He gaped at me.
“‘Where am I and what’s happened?’ he
asked me.
“I stopped and regarded him amazedly.
“ ‘What the deuce is the matter?’ 1 re-
plied. ‘Don’t you Know where you are?
Are you feeling all right?’
“ ‘I—I How did I get here?’ he de-
manded. ‘I went into the dispensary for
some morphia, and now —I’m here.’
“I almost staggered. The thing came as a
terrific shock to me.
“I shook him and tried to arouse him to
some awareness of what he had just done.
He couldn’t understand me, and kept asking
me apparently senseless questions.
“At last I was forced to the conclusion
that what he said was true, that he had
absolutely no idea of what he had done; the
last thing he remembered was going into the
dispensary, where he felt a little faint. ...
And came to, apparently, in the theatre.
“Now, how do you account for it?”
We were all silent for a minute. To doubt
that every word Dobson had said Avas true
was impossible. Then Felloe spoke.
“Automatism,” lie said succinctly. “Was
Carruthers an epileptoid?”
“Not a trace of it,” said old Dobson. “At
least, no one ever suspected it of him.”
“Somnambulism,” suggested Mellon half-
heartedly.
“Must have been automatism,” said Felloe
firmly. “All the circs, point to it. Sudden
shock, anxiety, his interest in the girl”-
Old Dobson sat regarding us with a smile,
looking from one to the other. Finally,
when no one had more to say, he spoke.
“There’s just one thing,” lie observed
very slowdy and deliberately, “that sticks in
my mind so that I cannot get rid of it.”
He paused. “Go on,” said someone.
“Just one thing,” he repeated. “I
put it to you as a matter of fact, without
suggesting in the least what it might mean.
But it's a curious fact, a puzzling fact, that
I’ve Avondered over, pondered over, and almost
convinced myself over.” He pulled at his
pipe, watching us keenly. “It’s this.... I
only put it to you, remember, make what
you like of it.... But the whole time that
Carruthers was performing that operation,
he seemed to be bothered with flies. Kept
apparently brushing them away from his
head, all the while. .. . Yes. It is curious.”
PHILIP BENN.
Frayed Cuffs.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
¥N the year 1890, when I was rising twenty-
| five, I left Sydney, where I was born, to
see the world, and I didn’t care if it cost
me all my money to see it. As a fact, it
did cost me all the money my father had left
me, and I saw a very small part of the world
—mostly Monte Carlo. When my wad was
reduced to something under two hundred
pounds I booked a passage to New York. I
had to get work. On the voyage to the
States I met John Jenks, and we became
friends. Through the good offices of John’s
uncle, who was a retired inspector of police,
I got a job, almost right away after landing,
in the police secret-service department, de-
tecting smugglers of precious stones and
other contraband from the Atlantic liners. I
forget how many trips I made between Eng-
land and the States during the five years I
was in the game, but it was, I remember,
the day before I started on my first voyage
that I lent John ten dollars. I didn’t see
him again for more than five years.
I achieved a good deal of success in the
service, although not more than a dozen per-
sons in the world knew that I was a detec-
tive, because my duty consisted wholly in
reporting to headquarters what I knew; I
never arrested anyone. Towards the end of
the year 1895 the chief of detectives sent for
me. He had a difficult case on hand that
couldn’t be handled by any of his experi-
enced men, as they were all too well known,
so he was going to give me a chance to “get
into the game big”—a chance to rise quickly
to fame and fortune. Looking me square
between the eyes he said: “I want you to
remove Ephraim K. Tucker from Alexandria
to Malta, where we can extradite him to
America. No use arresting him in Alex-
andria ; there’s no extradition treaty between
the States and Egypt.”
To say I was flattered does not express by
a jugful what I felt. At that moment the
New York police wanted no one so much as
Mr. Tucker, who had been vice-president and
manager of one of the largest private banks
operating in New York. Some three months
previously, without any advance shadows to
give warning of the coming event, Tucker
i ii van * s hed, and more than half a million
dollars had vanished with him. You can
well imagine he was a fish worth landing;
and as I was the angler I began to feel that
I amounted to something in the world of
sleuths.
The chief dismissed me this way: “You
find some means of enticing him out of
Egypt. Make your own arrangements; get
next to him, cost doesn’t count. I want him
here in health and handcuffs; you get him
to Malta—British territory—and we shall
extradite him from that island to his old
home. With a handshake he smiled his
parting sentence: “It’s on you, Bob Lee.
Your tide is at the flood. Don’t miss. I
wish yon luck.”
In less than three weeks from the day that
I Jeff my chief’s office I had booked up at
the Jaffa Hotel in Alexandria. My nom de
(jucrre was Kenneth McFaill, of Sydney,
commercial broker.
1\ hen I had taken the seat allotted to me
in the. dining-room T knew that the little
man with the pointed beard, greying hair and
eyes ambushed behind colored glasses, sitting
alone at a small table on my right, partly
concealed by a palm, was' Ephraim K.
Tucker, known in the hotel as Benjamin
Harrison. When I had been at the hotel a
week I had spoken once with Tucker, alias
Harrison. It was at coffee in the lounge
after dinner—nothing more than a few jerky
sentences on the topics of the day. At the
end of a month we had emerged from the
formal stage of acquaintanceship to the plane
where we could, without embarrasment, be
silent in each other’s company. Almost
nightly we drank the after-dinner coffee to-
gether, and sometimes a liqueur.
During all those days and nights I could
not rid myself of the notion that I was up
against an impossibility. Not even the glim-
mering of an idea came to me. The more I
cultivated the man the more was I impressed
by his character. He sounded, as he looked,
a calculator, who was always several moves
ahead of the other fellow, llis interests in
life were many. He knew much more about
Australia than I did. The evening I in-
formed him I was an Australian he pelted
me with questions on the politics of the six
States, and when he was through with poli-
tics he began on literature, commenting on
the works of Lawson, Paterson and Kendall,
and on one occasion, when he had invited
me to his private sitting-room, he recited Gor-
don’s “Sick Stockrider” from beginning to
end, in a hard, toneless voice, and with his
eyes riveted on a corner of the ceiling.
At the end of the eighth week I was an
abysmal failure, and I felt it. My bed was
no good to me. I used it as a place to
welter in, racking my impotent brain to find
the beginning of a way to remove Ephraim
Iv. Tucker, his pointed beard, greying hair
and colored spectacles from Egypt to Malta.
Each day I walked miles through the ancient
stinks of Alexandria, in a vain endeavor
to cull from the foetid atmosphere the germ
of an idea, and each day I drew a blank.
On the day that I completed my eleventh
week in the smellful city I packed my bags
preparatory to vacating the position. ‘ I was
right down to it. I would chuck everything
and return to Australia. When the last bag
was strapped I straightened up and gazed
flaccidly from my bedroom window, which
overlooked at some distance the shipping in
the stream and at the wharves. I began a
bitter valedictory to the landscape, when,
presto! I saw a flag at a masthead—the
Stars and Stripes. At that moment I had
a clear vision of friend Tucker in handcuffs.
Ten minutes later I was on my way to the
wharves, determined to take a chance.
The vessel was the Redskin, a Yankee
tramp of 4000 tons. Captain Reece, when I
presented myself, invited me to his quarters.
Reece was about forty-five, a typical Yank
and a downrigliter. His yes or no cam c from
him decisively and permanently. His tall,
tough frame and square-cut jib bespoke him
as a highly dependable man.
I spread my cards on the table, gave him
every fact concerning my mission, and finally
requested him to lend me the aid of himself
and his ship to inveigle Mr. Tucker out of
Egypt. The captain responded handsomely,
said he was glad I had come along, that lie
and his brother owned the Redskin between
them, and that one cargo was as good as
another to them. “But,” lie concluded, “liow
do you plan to lift this robber from the
sands of Egypt?”
Well, we put our heads together, the cap
tain and I, and we arranged a simple ruse
this way. On Thursday evening, the day fol-
lowing my visit to the Redskin, Captain
Reece would stroll into the lounge of the
Jaffa Hotel to drink coffee. The hour would
be eight-thirty. I would contrive to be in
conversation with Tucker. The captain, on
spotting me, would greet me as an old
acquaintance whom he hadn’t seen for some
time. .An introduction to Tucker would fol
low, and before he would leave us I would
invite him, and he would gladly accept my
invitation, to dinner on Friday evening, and
Tucker would be asked to join us. Now
Tucker was something of an epicure. He
liked to discourse on the various ways that
this meat or that fish could be served, and
on the subject he was never less than inter
esting. We planned to draw him along that
line during dinner, to give the captain an
opportunity to expatiate on the skill of his
ship’s cook, and as a proof of it to invite us
both to be his guests at dinner on board his
vessel on Saturday evening. Should the luck
hold, Tucker accept the invitation, and
accompany me aboard the Redskin—well, the
moment he touched the deck the gyves would
circle his wrists. The Redskin would cast
off, headed for Malta. Every detail as to
the release of the vessel could be arranged ;
and as to the expense, I had carte llanchc.
Of all men the most difficult to dupe is the
“Wanted” man. He is waiting for it, his
head over his shoulder. It behoved us to
be mighty circumspect. One false move and
the scheme would be shot to tatters. I began
to harbor doubts the moment I left the
captain. I couldn’t just see that slick
embezzler making the grade on that gangway.
But Tucker fell for it. Reece “discovered”
me in the lounge at eight-thirty on Thursday
evening, and he did his stuff just so. The
result was a delightful evening. Most cer-
tainly Reece, and Tucker, too, would be
charmed to dine with me next evening. After
the captain’s departure Tucker confided to
me his partiality for the company of an
intelligent sailor. “Through him,” he said,
“the ends of the earth meet.” That night I
slept as the innocent are supposed to sleep.
At last I could see Ephraim mounting the
gangwmy, his first step towards the presence
of the blind lady.
Vhe dinner was fine. We were all at our
best. Three merry men well met. Yes.
Tucker fell for us good and hard. He sprang
to the captain’s offer to treat us to an old-
fashioned New England dinner aboard the
Redskin —and so did I. That was just the
kind of dinner that Mr. Tucker had for many
weeks been dreaming of—when his dreams
were good.
As for me—well. I was secretly marvelling
at the kindness of the gods, when a hand
proffering a ten-dollar note was thrust under
my chin, and a once-familiar voice shouted:
“Bob Lee, or I’m not John Jenfes ! Ten
dollars, sir, you loaned me years ago. I’ve
called a lot o’ times at the detective office in
old New York, but you were always out
trailing the crooks.”
When I so far recovered as to be able to
stagger to the cable-office I wired the Chief:
“Failed. I resign.” A few days later I
caught a boat for Sidney. A little man with
a pointed beard, greying hair, colored spec-
tacles and a smile saw me off.
JOHN CRISP.


m
' * i
.
mud \ j^k2
WESTINGHOUSE
Morse Silent Rocker-Joint
CHAIN DRIVES
Ensure minimum wear—
Maximum life and highest
efficiency.
Chains in stock—wheels manu-
factured to suit requirements.
Write for particulars
and Booklet BM 414.
THE WESTINGHOUSE BRAKE CO.
OF AUSTRALASIA LTD.,
(Queensland Agents—HOLMES X CHURCH, Brisbane.
N.Z. Office—93-107 JTeatherston Street, Wellington.
CONCORD WEST, N. S. WALES.
Victorian Office—9» Queeh Street, Melbourne. .. , a .
South Australian Agents: Messrs. ELDEB, SMITH Si CO., liTD., Adelaide, S.A.
CORKBOARD
We are Sole • Agents for High-grade Com-
pressed Corkboard, “Non-Plus-Ultra” and
‘‘Record” Brands, the finest insulation for Cold
Storage Rooms.
Supplied in standard sizes, 3ft. x 1 ft., thick-
nesses of lin., 2in. and 3in., and easily fixed.
Large Stocks always available.
J. WILDRIME 8 SINCLAIR, LTD.,
97 PITT STREET, SYDNEY,
And at Melbourne, Brisbane, Perth and Auckland (N.Z.).
WHAT ARE YOU WAITING FOR?
HERE I AM POINTING THE WAY TO FORTUNE!
Your hesitation would almost make a Black Cat turn White.
Have a Try for the S<OLID GOLD HELMET worth £lOOO.
It’s the Dinkiedy. Stands every Acid Test. The same stuff
our fathers used to dig out of holes round about the Ophir
and Sofala, Bendigo and Ballarat.
IT’S YOURS FOR A SHILLING !
3475
Chances
for £1 !
and there
are £6666
worth of
Prizes
to dip for
N.S.W. FIRE BRIGADES’ ART UNION
FOR HOSPITALS & AMBULANCES
(Sanctioned bv the Attorney-General)
£6666 IN PRIZES
W,BJ
FIRST PRIZE.—A Solid Gold Fireman’s Helmet, Valued at £lOOO.
(This is a veritable Pot of Luck.)
Other Prizes: 2nd, Studebaker Six, £845; 3rd, Thornycroft Motor Lorry, £641; 4th,
Six-Cylinder Nash, £595; sth, Austin Five-Seater, £395; 6th, Buick Touring Car,
£395; 7th, Essex Coach, £299; Bth, Shulz Player Piano, £225; 9th, Victor Player
Piano, £212; and 130 other prizes valued at from £275 to £4/10/-.
Write to the Secretary of the Fire Brigades’ Art Union, Circular Quay Station,
Sydney, N.S.W.
THERE IS ONLY ONE SECRETARY,
AND THIS IS THE ONLY ADDRESS.
Write plainly, state whether Mr., Mrs., or Miss.
Drawing takes place at Fire Brigade Headquarters on August 10. Positively no
postponement. Closing date, July 27.
Send Stamped and Addressed Envelopes for Ticket and Result Slip.
J. J. NEVILLE, Hon. Sec.
(No other secretary.)
TICKETS
iA.
Books of
25 for £l.
Twelve for
10/-.
Six for 5/-.
©
On
8
Q
Are of vegetable origin
Best suited to purposes
Of purification
A Wonderful Pill
Simple to take - easy to use
Contain nothing harmful
Contain no gas - not oily
A Safe Pill
You can rely upon
BEECHAM’S PILLS
To give natural assistance
To stomach, liver and bowels
And promote sound health
A Sure Pill
teEECHAM’S PILLS
Afford positive relief
When you suffer from
Biliousness, sick headache
Indigestion, constipation*
(JLJXm tte tAuuf-
4u£ it fjuut6&
MARINE ENGINES
T/'' ERMATH Marine Engines are made
with the precision of a watch, all parts
evenly balanced, eliminating vibration and
friction. More power with less fuel.
All Parts Standard and Inter-
changeable. American Bosch
Magnetos—impulse eounling.
HALL BROS., LTD.,
Careening Cove (foot of Willoughby St.),
Milson’s. Point, North Sydney, N.S.W.
iCcrtnath Manufacturing Co.
Detroit, Mich., U. S. A.
CtbleAddres*:—KEKMATH
Cylinders
4 Cycle
Engines
A
If any illustration in “THE BULLETIN” takes your fancy, write
to the MANAGER, who will quote you price for
'Ar
C y
to
V
SATISFYING SHAVES RAZOR j
RAZOR and share with thousands of others the
that shave after shave
Guaranteed &
in order for two years free.
CRAIG & AITKEN.6S4 GEORGE ST.SYDNEY,
o°
,y<. 3
#
.*•:


Ilf pf II 1
■■
m
rAVS
FOR AUSTRALIAN I
a/ce jirtookccect j&cf&uz/uz/ cl 6
THE NEWCASTLE STEELWORKS
THE BROKEN HILL PROPRIETARY C?L T - D
Head Office: 422 Little Collins St, Melbourne
LAST YEAR THE PRODUCTION of RAILS, SHAPES etc.
TOTALLED OVER 300,000 TONS.
