

T*
m
m
m
ss
i IS
Jt?
-•v*
1
m
tm _
!? Trowf
m
g«g
>./i
m
27
&
s :
i'-i
M
fz'M.
its
v_
£ ■ ;
wK»*
A
* 4 x
m
wj
IP
**•*
m
M
Mm
'A'rS-i&X*,
m
m ’
V
■
n-%
CM
■ at.
<swz
m
'mm;'
w
;t*X
«i§ii§®isll
US
;
mM
-?■
y*:
&h£2ss'...Vi'.
8
■.-.>•
m$M
mm
•>• • •:
»
Is
r,,.
*/V,
; •!,'
CE-.r
Lp*
M%ix
**
‘*s
.V.
*• rV ?;
t £ -brJf
; t~-
&fc
LI
£»
Me ML
:-ss
*SS*
W
n?
:
y/?
MJ
ii
NONE GENUINE
WITHOUT The BRAND
HATS
IN
AUSTRALIA
The Bulletin
VoL 48* —No* 2470*
See page 36.
Thursday, June 16, 1927*
Price 6d.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.


WITHIN THE SHADOW,
By MAURICE C. GROOM.
A book devoted to Australia’s problems.
6 1- (Postage 3d.), ALL BOOKSELLERS.
YV7RITE for the 1927 New Library Cata-
vv logue. which. is now ready and will be
sent post free with full terms and particulars
on application to
DYMOCK’S BOOK ARCADE, LTD.,
428 George Street, Sydney.
Buy " Wear
WOLSEY
PURE WOOL UNDERWEAR
It is more durable
and gives better all-
round service than
any other make .
MADE IN ENGLAND BY
WOLSEY LTD., LEICESTER.
Makers of
SPORTSMAN RAMESES
Knitted Sportswear. Underwear and Hosiery .
WOLSEY LTD.,
316, Flinders Lane, Melbourne.
A change to Benger’s
has been the turning
point in the life of many
a backward baby,
Unsolicited, testimony .
"Baby weighed only 3% lbs. when a
fortnight old. We tried several foods
then we discovered ‘Benger's.’ Baby took
.Benger's without trouble. She gained 12
ozs. the first week. She is now 8 months old,,
and weighs 16 lb 3. —a happy, plump, and
healthy little girL"
Food
is always prepared for
use with fresh new milk.
Bender's Food is sold by
Chemists and Stores every-
where.
Benger’s Booklet for Mothers,
post free from BENGER’S FOOD, Ltd., 350, George St., SYDNEY.
Sole Manufacturers: Benger’s Food, Ltd., Otter Works, Manchester, England
THE MARK OF .
A GOOD RAZOR
THE
Azk any mao vou know who use* a PLUM—
ask him if he doesn't think it the best
Razor he ha* ever used. Hear him
answer, “Why, rather!"
e
è
SUPPLIED SET READY FOR USE
CUARANTEED AND KEPT IN
ORDER FOR TWO YEARS FREE
é
Post hree.
CRAIG &AITKEN,
654 6eorge Street. Sydney.
If any illustration in “THE BULLETIN” takes your fan.
-
to the MANAGER, who will quote you price for the
zy, write
original.
ê
CAUTION. —The large sale of Eumenthol
Jujubes has led to a number of imitations
being manufactured under the name of
menthol and other jujubes. It is important,
therefore, when buying to be sure to get
HUDSON’S Eumenthol Jujubes. You may
be asked to buy other jujubes, and be told
they are “just as good” as Hudson’s Eumen-
thol Jujubes. This proves that these imita-
tions and substitutes have no reputation of
their own, and can only be sold on the good
repute and high character of Hudson’s
Eumenthol Jujubes.
Sold everywhere, tins 1/6; or forward 1/6
in stamps to the Manufacturers, Hudson’s
Eumenthol Chemical Co., Ltd., Sydney.
For Coughs, Colds and Sore Throats.
m
m
A. The Larynx or
Organ of Voice.
B. The Tjachea or
Windpipe.
c.
The Bronchial
Tube* of a dis-
sected lung.
D, A Lobe of one
of the Lung*.
The Red Page
Who is Melba’s Australian Successor?
Now that Dame Nellie has' apparently
definitely retired from her profession, who
is to uphold Australia’s musical prestige?
Melba stood head and shoulders above any
musician we have sent across the waters.
With her appearing at Covent Garden or
the Metropolitan, Australia received a con-
stant and emphatic advertisement the value
of which one has to leave Australia to
fully appreciate. We have much to rejoice
over in the fact that we have many other
musicians left us through whose genius we
may still retain a place on the world’s
musical map.
Two stand out above all others, Percy
Grainger and Florence Austral. Grainger,
despite his American naturalisation, is
known everywhere as the Australian pianist.
He will never be a Paderewski, nor yet a
Backhaus, but his work as composer and
performer is sufficiently world-renowned to
place him in the first flight. More especi-
ally as a composer is he known to every
orchestra of any standing in the world. His
delightful delicacy and sense of rhythm
have made his scoring of folk-tunes a divert-
ing interlude in any orchestral concert. His
rich crimson pianoforte setting of what has
been described as the most perfect air of
all time, the Londonderry, would entitle
him to a place in any pianist’s library. His
orchestral romps, “Shepherds Hey!” and
“Molly on the Shore,” endear him to the
hearts of orchestral audiences the world
over.
Austral is a singer who is becoming more
important each year. London and American
critics have hailed her as the great Wag-
nerian soprano of the day. Her voice is
tremendous, her dramatic ability is superb
and her musical intelligence more than
adequate.. It is interesting, if un-
profitable, to speculate whether the Firm
made the slightest effort to obtain her
services for the approaching opera season.
Incidentally, John Amadio, on whose
shoulders appears to have fallen the .mantle
°Lt h° world’s favorite flautist, John Lem-
nrone, is another to whom we can look to
uphold our national musical prestige.
There is another singer whose Australian
origin has unfortunately never been very
well known in other lands. His gramo-
phone records not so long ago had a bigger
sale than those of any other recording
artist; Peter Dawson’s rollicking baritone
ballads have had a phenomenal success.
But he has lived so long in England that
his Australian birth arid tuition ate of little
advertising value. Of more use to us from
that, point of view are operatic soprano
Evelyn Scotney and violinist Daisy
Kennedy.
Even more interesting is the selection of
the youngsters who arc going to bring honor
to their native land in the next decade.
First and foremost, Essie Ackland, the
Sydney contralto, comes to mind. She
has a remarkable organ, and is the fortunate
possessor of two even more precious gifts,
a magnetic platform personality and a high
degree of musical intelligence. London’s
most prominent concert director told me
18 months ago that Miss Ackland was far
and away the most promising musician
that, Australia had sent abroad since the
war. Only a fopl dares to prophesy the
next, favorite of a fickle public, but the
temptation to join the ranks of those fools
is very great when one discusses Essie Ack-
land.
Others who have already placed their
feet on the ladder are Horace Stephens, the
best “Elijah” in England; John Brownlee,
who has just signed a two years’ contract
at the Paris Opera House; Dorothy Helm-
rich, a gloriously intelligent singer who never
fails to gather bouquets from papers of
standing like the London Times and the
Morning Post; arid Malcolm McEaehern,
an artist bearing a strong resemblance in
his work to Peter Dawson. Another whose
iuture is one of the brightest promise is
Browning Mummery, who did so well with
the British National Opera Company.
A host of names come to one’s mind when
one attempts-to enumerate Australian musi-
cians in London and on the Continent.
First, there is Cecil Sherwood, the tenor who
left here many years ago and has since be-
come almost an Italian. His voice has been
heard in practically every opera house of
note in Italy. Recently he. was offered a
Covent Garden season, but refused it in
favor of a more lucrative contract in the
land of his adoption. Then come Clifford
Lathlean, the South Australian, who spent
some years in Sydney and is studying
successfully under the great Clay of London ;
Reginald Morphew, who sang here as a
tenor and is now blossoming as a baritone;
Batti Bernhardi, Melba’s protege in Paris',
who promises well and may yet prove to
be the great Australian tenor. Of the
shriekier sex there are Wilma Berkley,
Gladys Cole, Ethel Osborne, Helen Esser-
man and Rosa Alba, all capable of doing
this country credit.
Unfortunately there is one very disturb-
ing feature about this monotonous exporta-
tion of golden voices from Australia. They
all appear to find it necessary to spend at
least a couple of years, generally more, in
further tuition as soon as they arrive in
London. There is not a single instance of
any one of them setting the Thames- on
fire without having previously undergone a
very extensive course of training from
London or Parisian teachers. Onlv one
conclusion can be drawn from the fact—
that Australia is deplorably barren of first-
class teachers of voice production. In
Sydney one seeks' in vain for more than
three or four capable teachers. We have
hundreds who can teach interpretation of
songs and operatic excerpts, but the infi-
nitely more important branch of the sub-
ject, that of teaching the singer how to use
the voice, shows a heart-breaking dearth of
efficient instructors. It is time the Sydney
Conservatoriiim. considered the advisability
of scouring Europe for the finest singing
teacher it can give us. Americans don’t
have to rush over to London to complete
their vocal education. Australians have to.
Little Adelaide has given the other cities
a lead by bringing out an excellent teacher
of singing on a three years’ contract. It
is a national musical disaster if professional
jealousy or even smug self conceit is pre-
venting the Sydney Conservatorium doing
the same thing.
KEITH BARRY.
English as We Speak It
Our latest critic, and one writing with
authority, is Alexander Watson, who has
had many opportunities on his professional
visits to Australia of hearing English as it
is spoken in our country. He is probably
the most, distinguished elocutionist in the
Empire, and few men cherish a kindlier regard
than he does for Australia and Australians.
What he has to say, if critical, is also
generous. His generosity is extended to our
so-called dialect. “Nothing thrills me and
warms my heart so much at home as when
I unexpectedly hear someone speaking in
the Australian dialect,” he says. “Why
should Australians be ashamed of their dia-
lect, as they occasionally appear to be?....
The person born within the hearing of , the,
bellbird has as much right to his dialect as
one who is born within the sound of Bow
Bells.” He has, therefore, no fault to lint!
against us on the score of dialect. The
direction in which he points the shaft of
criticism covers not only us but the Empire:
“A slipshod mode of utterance and a ten-
dency to the use of slang threaten to seri-
ously undermine the beauty of our English'
tongue, not only in the Dominions, but in
the homeland as well.” What he deems to
be the first essential in the teaching of
spoken English is “not the abolition of dia-
lect, but, the entire elimination of slovenli-
ness of speech, sloppiness of utterance and
the careless elision of final and other
syllables.”
That is fair criticism. And it is true.
How few of us make the effort to open our
lips sufficiently to enable clear enunciation!
We are not an inert people in other respects,
neither are we untidy in dress nor indif-
ferent to personal appearance; but we are
emphatically slovenly in speech. We tumble
out our words without regard to order, we
dribble them through a mere slit ju our
faces. Not one in twenty pays as much respect
to his manner of speech as to the trim ness
of his attire. Yet speech and the manner
of it is a far more reliable test, of a man
than, is the best-made tailor suit. “The
effect aroused, particularly that of a first
impression, by the sound of a voice or a
mode of speech,” says Mr. Watson, “may
be just as potent as that conveyed by
outward appearance. Tidiness of speech is
certainly quite as important to an individual
as tidiness in dress.” There is a curious
kink in the Australian character, especially
among its younger generation, that any-
thing like precision is an affectation. It
is condemned by the slang word “swank.”
The consequence too often is that, the Aus-
tralian being one of the shyest people in
the world, the well-educated youth conceals
the evidence of his education under a loose,
slangy colloquialism that avoids the con-
demnation of “side” or “swank.”
A strong point made by Mr. Watson is
that a standard pronunciation of English
enunciated clearly is a most useful, if not,
indispensable, instrument in bringing us into
■touch with our fellow English-speaking
citizens in the Empire. Our English should,
be such as will enable a man “to speak
in a manner easily understood by all his
listeners from whatever count rv or
Dominion they may come Slovenliness
of utterance should be something that would
fill us with shame. Teach the children to
respect their speech in its sounds as well
as in its grammar. Train them to realise
that self-respect and, indeed, self-interest
should be sufficient to urge tliem to be care-
ful in enunciation.” It is good advice from
a good friend.
T. C.
Munro’s Mountain
C. K. Munro’s The Mountain (Collins) is
metaphysically a somewhat malevolent
“symbolic drama” full of life without laugh-
ter. It is Captain Yevan’s fight with him-
self and his fight, with others worked out
with almost Tolstoyan penetration intro-
spectively, and yet with Shakspearean storms
of realism that place it near the throne of
(Continued on page 5.)


Anthony Horderns'
for Value and Service.
The Master Racket
The finest product of the Tennis World, beautiful finish,
perfect balance. This Racket represents the latest scientific
development in frame construction, being made of four
laminations of English Ash, which reduces breakages and
warping to a minimum; six gut bindings on frame, and
strung with best English Gut.
PRICE
(QX150.)
75/-
Spalding’s Tennis Balls
m
We have made a special purchase of Spald-
ing’s 192 7 Cemented Seam Tennis Balls
all guaranteed and are offering them,
while they last, at a price considerably be-
low the usual. This unique opportunity to
purchase a well-known, dependable Tennis
Ball at such a sensational reduction should
not be missed. Usually 23/
PRICE, per doz
15/-
The Readers’ Library
Anthony Horderns’ are the sole selling agents for The
Readers’ Library. Well-known novels by famous authors
can now be bought for ninepence a volume. Each book
contains from 250 to 380 pages, and is printed in a good
clear type which facilitates reading. Bound in good cloth
over stiff boards, having a chaste design blocked out on
front and back in imitation gold. A set of the whole series
•would be a worthy and decorative addition
to any book case.
Price, per volume
Postage per volume 2d. extra.
9
Tourist Bureau
and
Travel Service
Anthony Horderns' have completed
arrangements with Thos. Cook and
Son to open a Tourist Bureau, with
everv facility for arranging Local
and Overseas Tours, etc.
This is still further evidence of
Anthony Horderns’ intentions to
make their Store the most complete
Shopping Centre in New South
Wales, providing every possible ser-
vice and convenience for their cus-
tomers' use.
Travelling Rugs
Australian-made All-Wool Travel-
ling Rugs of excellent quality.
The most attractive designs and
colors are featured in these warm
and serviceable rugs. The “Hood”
Rug is of heavy weight, with
fringed ends. In an assortment
of good serviceable designs.
of good serviceable de-
signs. PRICE, each .. .
21A
Anthony Horderns’
12 Days of
Household Economy
Anthony Horderns’ 1 2 Days of
Household Economy is now proceed-
ing. As an object-lesson in the
genuine economies that great manu-
facturing resources, tremendous buy-
ing power and value-giving policy
can make possible it offers a
thousand and one opportunities to
spend wisely.
Every necessity and every comfort
for the household is offered by
Anthony Horderns’ huge organisa-
tion at prices that always represent
sound value.
ë
Crosley
Radio
Set
Single Dial Control, 5-Valve Set.
The “Crosley Receiver” offers offers amazing value. Cabinet
is of a beautiful, distinguished design and two-tone finish.
Simplicity of operation is the outstanding feature, having
single-dial control, which possesses a graphic station selector.
Turn the dial slowly and hear the Australian and New
Zealand stations on short wave-lengths.
All accessories, batteries and Loud Speaker.
£27/15/-
Valet
Auto Strop
Safety Razors
Valet Auto Strop Safety Razor,
complete in nickel-plated or
leather case with twelve blades
and Velvet Hide Strop.
(CX494.) As illus-
trated. PRICE .. . .
25/-
Valet Auto Strop Safety Razor,
complete in Nickel-plated case
with three Valet blades and
Strop.
PRICE
10/-
%
Valet Auto Strop Safety Razo/-,
complete in Steel case, with
two Valet blades and
Strop. PRICE ....
6/6
Valet Auto Strop Safety Razor,
complete in Box, with one
Blade and Strop.
PRICE
3/6
We pay carriage on Tennis Requisites , Travelling Rugs and Razors in N.S.W ,
Anthony Horderns'
Postal Address:
SYDNEY
Box No. 2712 C, G.PX).


n
I
r
Improvements Produce
Still Finer Results
A new five-bearing crankshaft of finest
alloy steel, together with other improve-
ments announced at the same time, has
literally revolutionised the performance of
Dodge Brothers Motor Car.
You must go far higher in price to find
its equal in zest, flexibility and smoothness
of power. The best proof of this statement
is personal experience in the car. We will
be glad to provide you an opportunity at
your convenience.
Standard Touring - - - £299
Standard Roadster - - - £299
Sedan £4lO
Coupe £395
Five Disc Wheels and Balloon Tyres.
Canada Cycle & Motor Co. (Victoria) Pty., Ltd., Melbourne.
Austral Motors, Limited, Brisbane—Townsville.
The Standardised Motors, Ltd., Sydney.
Waymouth Motor Co., Ltd., Adelaide.
Winterbottom Motor Co., Ltd., Perth.
Dodee Brothers
MOTOR CARS
16-6-’27.


Easiest of all to operate
“D.J. SUPER-SIX”
—with One Dial control
For £4/ 10/" deposit
The first two shipments of this set sold out immedi-
ately, but supplies are available again. With single
dial control it is simplicity itself—just turn the dial
and listen to your favorite programme from any
Australian station working on short wave length ! It
comes through clearly, in a fraction of a second. There
is no tinkering round with several dials and coils, nor
distortion through inaccurate tuning.
The “ D.J. Super-Six” with one dial control is a King
quality Neutrodyne, equipped with the finest accesso-
ries, including speaker, valves, aerial equipment —
everything ready to instal. Price, £45 cash or
£4/10/- deposit and 17/3 weekly for one year.
Test the simplicity of the one dial control yourself
in our Radio Depart., 22 York Street. Our Mr. Basil
Cooke, F.R.A.S., will be pleased to advise you con-
cerning your radio problems personally or by letter.
DAVID JONES’
For Service — Sydney.
great Tragedy. It stretches from the slums
to the stars.
“The Mountain” shows strength in the por-
trayal of every character. Each one is
sketched with elemental simplicity, with
almost blinding naturalness. In that fierce
light they are never melodramatic but always
themselves, ever doing in the circumstances
what they had to do and never doing what
the playwright thinks they should do. Six
of the characterisations are Colossus-like.
Captain Yevan, a Wandering Elder of the
Church, Secretary Denkin (of the real Revo-
lutionaries), Demos Bolckow (leader of the
Revolutionaries, a posturer and a windbag),
the Grand Duke and the Chancellor Stein
are all giants. In no play of this century
can I recall argument on supreme issues so
fundamental and majestic. But the play is
not the less a play of action, for in it the
argument is made action.
This story of Captain Yevan begins with
the hero as an officer in the army in middle
Eastern Europe. Yevan affronts discipline
and defies authority. He accepts, rather
than exile or fine, degradation to the rank ot
private soldier, attaches himself to a revo-
lutionary organisation, promotes a successful
revolution in the army, makes himself the
ruler, abdicates, and finally disappears with
the Wandering Elder “to teach the people
not to need a tyrant.” In the evolution the
trees of epigram well-nigh keep the forest
out of sight. Thus: “The weak must always
be cruel, for they are afraid.” It is forgotten
that there is no fear like that of the “un-
afraid” in the seats of the mighty.
Munro constantly paints on a vast canvas.
One wonders how long he can so keep it up
in the grand manner. As with his pessi-
mistic “Progress,” so with “The Mountain” —
the action covers years. The two plays are
alike in that at the end things remain the
same that were never to be the same again.
There is no phase of life at the foundations
of society that is not presented—-the delinea-
tion as powerful as the interpretation. All
that fundamentally touches the struggle for
existence is here. What it means to be
on the top and at the bottom of the army
(duty in fortress and duty in desert both
vividly portrayed); what it means to be
overseer and drainage laborer among
workers, and to be bossed, sacked and
starved; what it means to be with the
Duke’s Court in the Palace; what it means
to govern and be governed; what it means
to be a member of the revolutionary or-
ganisation; what it means to be hereditary
ruler or Prime Minister, clergyman, orator,
astronomer, any sort of official, this uproot-
ing drama tells powerfully, unfolding all as
dispassionately and as ruthlessly as do the
spokesmen of Science their discoveries.
Titanic strippings of superficialities re-
veal starkly the fixity of Human Nature.
Munro’s pages make one feel the hopeless-
ness of anybody ever doing anything, even
altruistically, except for Self. Most of what
we thought we had settled of the motives
of Human Nature is seen to be still un-
settled.
Definitions of Loyalty, Freewill, Free-
dom, Law, Order, impinge upon the chief
controversies around Government and
Revolution. The powers and possessions of
the Governmental idea form as magnetic
a study as do the manipulators and vic-
tims of Revolution. In the arena of the
first., “The Prince” and its author are not
without rivals any longer; in the domain
of the second, Bernard Shaw’s “Maxims for
Revolutionists” look small and silly by
comparison. The sardonic searchlight upon
revolutionism (real versus spectacular) _is
matched only by the analysis of motivity
and personnel, if you are as I am, you will
be left as breathlessly hard hit.
The metaphorical mountain is Authority.
“I’ll break it,” shouted Yevan. “Escape?
Wot d’you mean? You can die. But short
of that, there’s no other way out,” cries
Ephim the orderly. Said Zasha the fanatic:
“You rely on jmurself to bring about
order. The only order you can bring about
is what we did all this to get away from.”
So it seems. “I knew, my son, that having
set out to move a mountain you would
end by climbing it and sitting on the top,”
said the Elder. A man fights for his
own freedom against his own enslavement.
“The strongest come to the top and domi-
nate the rest, always justifying what they
do by the plea of knowing best.” Inferen-
tially, Munro concedes the Elder’s position
to be paramount as the practice and phi-
losophy alone possible for humanity. “God
is like other authorities,” says the Elder,
“in that He says Trust Me,’ but He is
unlike them in that trust in Him means
freedom, but trust in other authorities
means slavery.”
But in upholding the Elder “The Moun-
tain” has to fall back upon a Something
not subject to its own laws and therefore
with no place in its dialectics. In truth, the
one weakness of the play lies in its moun-
tainous moral, for an intangibility is
offered as a solution in defiance of the
well-developed principle throughout, in that
here, too, arise many arguments answerable
only by resort to the Reason the play
finally brings to naught. For being man-
made the Elder’s view of God might be
entirely erroneous—and what then?
R. S. Ross.
Dodging a Dog License
I know where anyone who wants him
can buy Carlyle in seven volumes at
eighteenpence a volume. In the same place
you can get Swinburne in two volumes for
a total of half a crown—if you want him.
And, if you’re still hungry for bargains, you
can have Macaulay’s essays, literary and
historical, between one set of boards for
one shilling. I do not want any of these
gifts myself, nor nine-tenths of the other
matter on sale in bookshops, because I do
not want to pay for a dog license, not yet
awhile. I am fond of my eyes, and as fond
of a number of things I see with them
every day as I am of books. No; if you
want any of those abominably-printed
volumes —I suspect that is why most of
them are there—l shall be painfully willing
to tell you where they may be had, and
happy to give you the address of an eye-
doctor into the deal. For my part, 1 shall
stick to Harrap, who, out of consideration
for all who abhor nonpareil and minion, is
issuing a splendid assortment of fine writing
at a reasonable price and in print that
plenty of hurdlers I have punted on couldn’t
jump over.
The Harrap Library volumes are mod-
estly bound, of the exact shape that, a
book should be—7|in. x sin. Each has a
portrait frontispiece, and there is no attempt
at stuffing; the volumes hold exactly what
they can hold and no more. The price is
about 4s. 6d. and the range is wide: Bret
Harte and Lamb (in two volumes, as he
should be), D’Arcy Thompson and Lafcadio
Hearn, Carlyle and Readings from the
Bible, Hazlitt and Milton, Emerson and
Whitman, besides much other classical mat-
ter, selected plays and anthologies of verse
and prose. My lot so far consists mainly
of the last two, and without exception I
find them what they purport to be. The
volume of short stories has nothing in it
but short stories. It does not include frag-
ments from the Bible or from papyri found
in the tombs of extinguished Egyptians,
and it is flagrantly deficient in riddle-me-
rees. Its editor apparently understood that
the short story is a definite, recognisable
and purely modern child of literature. A
sketch needs no plot, and may leave the
impression that the writer could have con-
tinued it had he wished; the short story
must have a plot and must be an entity.
Though the short story and the sketch may
be equally delightful in their different ways,
the sketch is easier to accomplish.
The “Essays of To-day” stands the test
equally with these others, and next in my
order of purchase is “The Lure of the Sea”
—as fine a collection of miscellaneous writ-
ings on a single theme as I have ever had
the good fortune to light upon. It is an
assortment of verse, stories, essays, sketches
and fragments, of salty refrains, impersonal
description and lively narrative. Its authors
include Masefield, Conrad, Kipling, Becke
and Basil Lubbock, and its title is an in-
spiration—a voyage upon many seas, in
many ships and in most conditions. And
at the present time a philanthropic book-
seller in Sydney is forcing this volume on
to an uninterested public at “2s. 6d., was
4s. 6d.” From the same shelf I bought my
other volume of the series for eighteen-
pence. It is “Day-dreams of a School-
master,” by D’Arcy W. Thompson. Those
whom the title scares should keep away
from it, for it, too, is what it purports to
be—the day-dreams of a teacher of a hap-
pily almost dead era of teaching, dreaming
over his own absurd education and beyond
his day to to-day, and perhaps even beyond
to-day. He was taught Latin by the gentle
process of having to repeat and memorise
a passage a day, without ever having the
meaning of a word of it given to him.
“Yes,” he says, “we may reasonably be
proud of the capability of speaking, maybe
of thinking, in a foreign tongue. But it is
either superlatively sublime, or superlatively
ridiculous, to speak for years a language
unintelligible to one’s-self.” It takes a
gentleman to voice a protest like that, a
Quiller-Couch or a Saintsbury—Thompson
is a little of both.
And now to this business of dodging a
dog license. I do not hanker to have a
dog leading me about, and I will never
have one if leaving badly- and minutely-
printed volumes on their shelves will avoid
it. I shall stick to publishers who are not
in league with eye-doctors and who do not
hold some such ambition as getting Gals-
worthy into one volume. Meanwhile, I
shall go on saving up as hard as I can to
buy another of the Harrap books which
a generous bookseller has upon his shelf
marked “Was 4s. 6d.—now 2s. 6d.”
CECIL MANN.
The Billabong School
Arthur Adams, in his tilt at “the Billa-
bong school” (R.P. 5/5/’27) , makes a
number of easy points, but misses a very
obvious one—the invariable linking together
of doubtful color and dud characters in so
many Australian novels. Writers, obsessed
with the superstition that “bush atmosphere”
is the first essential of a prospective best-
seller, rush continually to the billabong for
color, though not one per cent, of them can
ever hope to absorb, let alone depict, it.
But they are all in evident agreement with
Arthur Adams’s statement that “if a billa-
bong is necessary for an Australian story,
any working novelist can manufacture one
for the purpose of his plot and setting.”
So the working novelist gets busy. He takes
streaky snapshots of the billabong’s sur-
roundings—the flood, fire, drought, good
season, picnic races and kangaroo hunt of
everyday bush life—shuffles them up with
prints of deplorably dull and often impos-
sible human beings—his characters being
just as much “manufactured” as his color—
and calls the result “a novel of the Great
Outback,” of the open spaces, or of “Real
Australia.” For Heaven’s sake (and the
billabong’s) let him stick to the precincts
of the Millions Club. If he does create
dud people in Pitt, Collins or Queen street,
he can’t go very far wrong with his back-
ground. The chances are that he can paint
the color of skyscrapers and slums, screech-
ing trams and surfing beaches and the people
who frequent them, equally well—very
well. So let the billabong dry up for a
while; at any rate till the lawful successors
of Boldrewood and Lawson appear, and
give those who live beside it the chance of
a ripe old age. Lots of us are liable to
apoplexy when we learn that the coolabah
and lawyer-vine grow side by side; when
we hear the term “sun-up” coming from the
mouth of a bush urchin; especially when
we read about a yardful of lambs being
deprived of their tails and their mothers
on the same day—three howlers selected at
random from separate and recent Australian
stories by Australian writers.
BALLANTINE TEMPL.E.
A Satchel of Books
The Stranger from Cheyenne, by Joseph
B. Ames (Century (Jo.; Qy mock’s). Home
day the U.S.A. may be moved to prohibit
the Wild West—it is over-due for extinc-
tion.
The Crow’s Tun Tragedy, by Annie Haynes
(John Lane). Luke Beachcombe, solicitor,
is found strangled in his office after the
theft of valuable emeralds from his clergy-
man brother-in-law; and thereupon Miss
Haynes builds another detective story. She
is an adept at it.
The White Locust, by F. E. Mills Young
(Bles). A dramatic story east in the South
African environment which surrounds so
much of this author's work. A message tied
under the wing of a white locust was the
means of averting a tragedy—which explains
the title of the novel.
The lirat, by E. ,T. Raith (Howard Watt;
Dymock’s). This American humorist’s latest
production rattles along like a buckboard
on a rough road, and if movement can excite
merriment then the author attains his end.’
There is nothing subtle about Mr. Raith’s
humor; it is as patent as a candy advertise-
ment and makes no demands on the weary
after-office brain.
The Natural History of a Savant, by
Charles Richet, translated from the French
by Sir Oliver Lodge (Dent). The writer
was for many years Professor of Physiology
in the University of Paris. There is no
exact equivalent in the English language for
the word savant. Probably the chief char-
acteristic ot' true savants is that they do not
endeavor to apply their work in practice.
They are not concerned with the applica-
tions of theory, but arc seekers of unknown
truth. Here are depicted with humor and
liveliness the difficulties and uncertainties,
the attempts and failures through which
a discoverer of new facts has to go. Many
personal examples are given. The author
pleads that something, presumably out of
the public purse, should be done for the body
of savants “because of the inherent uncer-
tainty of all research, and the inability of
this research to enrich its devotees.’’ They
should be given the means of providing food
and housing and sufficient, working instru-
ments become, in short, the precious chil-
dren of the State.
77/c Road to Prosperity, by Sir George
I‘iiish (Benn). The author, a well-known
economist, believes the treaties of Locarno
and the entry of Germany into the League of
Nations make feasible the. task of restoring
prosperity to Britain and the world in gene
ral. To bring about this condition whole-
hearted and loyal co-operation is called for.
Each nation must bring its special contribu-
tion to tin; task of restoring and increasing
the well-being of all nations, to meet the
present extraordinary disorganisation. “The
nations are face to face with a situation in
which the whole world is over-borrowed.
Referring to our Commonwealth, the author,
whose work is an examination and expla-
nation, of the international manifesto known
as “The Banker’s Elea,” writes: “Australia
in recent years has enjoyed considerable pro-
sperity by reason of her ability to sell her
products, and more especially her wool, to
Europe at high prices, and to borrow fron
Great. Britain great sums of capital for
development. The amount of capital obtained
from Great Britain is, however, very large
and it is obvious that if Australia were to
experience any difficulty in selling her wool,
wheat, butter, meat and other products to
Great Britain and to Europe, not only in fivl
quantity but at profitable prices, if. would
become exceedingly difficult for her to mei t
her obligations. Altogether Australia has
borrowed and obtained no less than 700
millions of capital from Great Britain, and
inasmuch as the population of Australia is
only 7 about six millions, the burden of interest
will be realised. Australia needs a rapid
and large expansion of income in common
with other debtor countries haying large
obligations. Nevertheless Australia is shar-
ing in the work of creating impediments to
trade, thereby reducing her own selling power
and curtailing her own income. Probably at
no time was Europe in greater need of woo!
and wheat from Australia, and never did
Australia create so many difficulties to their
purchase.” He concludes that in order to
maintain Australia’s solvency and prosperity
she must remove the obstacles she has created
to the rapid expansion of her own and the
world’s income. In other words, apparently 7,
she must be content to be a wood-and-water
joey to the superior peoples of Europe.
Kay ton’s Selection, by Steele Rudd
(N.S.W. Bookstall). “Dear me!” mother
said, when father lit up the home with a
match and startled a pair of lizards, “is
this the place you have brought us to 7“
A tale told in the author’s familiar style—
of how the Kayton family built; up a fortune
from the foundations of a pioneer selection.
The story is full of quaint sketches of bush-
bred folk more or less true to the soil, and
will be welcomed by lovers of Mr. Davis’s
“selection” yarns.


<*\l)
c
4S
K-
Disfiguring Rashes
Prevented by Cuticura
Cuticura Soap and Ointment not
only soothe and heal pimples and
rashes but their mission is to pre-
vent such skin troubles. The Soap,
used daily, assisted by the Oint-
ment when required, keeps the pores
active and the skin clear and healthy.
Soap ls.,Talcum ls.3d„ Ointment Is. and
2s. For sample Soap and Ointment ad-
dress: “R.Towns & Co., Sydney, N.S.W.”
' Cuticura Shaving Stick Is. fid.
OS
i&A
AM
V
TV* “ Popular *'
Speria }y adapted for
the Model n Dance
Orchestra.
Nickel-plated double spun hoop with 20
brackets, mahogany neck with non-slippmg pegs.
Complete in Case. Price
( Freight Free)
Other styles from £lO
£7/10/-
nptivo {"’ataloc'nf*
’'li'-atv
OBTAINABLE FROM ANY MUSIC.DEAt Elt
OR DIRECT FROM
A.P. SYKES
V[X Lit. Collins St.
cMelbourne.
When orderma frleare mention Ibis' pohe.y_
s'
SPORTS SHOES
Rubber-soled, Flexible,
47/6
per pair,
Rich tan in color, with uppers
neatly punched in a suitable design,
these Abbey Sports Shoes offer com-
fort over the roughest going.
Soles of tough crepe rubber literally
cushion the feet against all uneven
ness and give a pleasant springiness.
The rubber is built up on a stout
leather foundation that preserves the
shape of the shoes.
Abbey Sports Shoes are made o'
willow calf on specially prepared
lasts. Their design allows unhindered
movement of the muscles of the feet.
No discomfort even when worn for
the first time.
Order by Post
Half-sizes can be supplied—each in
three fittings, narrow, medium and
wide. Specify width when ordering.
ABBEY
Established over 80 years,
313 George St., and 224 Pitt St M
SYDNEY.
1.24
e
m
> POLISHES—PRESERVES—PREVENTS CRACKS
BOSTOCK’S Shoe Creams are made in all
principal shades, and especially noted for the
New Shade of Bois-de-Rose, Putty, Sunburn
and Oak.
Price 6<f. per tube. Obtainable Everywhere .
® 3i4
Q
r*
&
Smoke and enjoy the exquisite
flavor of this Cigar.
Made of superb Havana Tobacco*
with a smooth, satiny wrapper.
At all good hotels
and tobacconists.
6b.
EACH.
BOX PRICES:
10 Cigars 5/6. (posted 6/-); 25, 12/- (posted
12/6); 50, 23/- (posted 23/9); 100, 45/-
(posted 46/-).
Sampler box, containing 2 Cigars, 1/- post rree.
CRAIG 8 AITKEN, 654 George Street, Sydney,
Distributors for Club Reil Cigar Factory,
VARIOUS VERSE
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Sate the Eyes with Beauty.
Sate the eyes with beauty
And the ears with laughter
For the nights of yearning
And the dull days after.
Heap up blue and purple,
Amethyst and amber
When the sun comes striding
From his cloudy chamber.
Store up notes ecstatic,
Mirth and wonder flinging.
When the sweet lark startles
Heaven with his singing.
So with light encompassed,
For a joyous mortal
Life is all enchantment,
Death a magic portal!
VICTORIA.
HELEN E. WALLACE.
Sonnet.
When I, as some calm judge, who justly
deals,
Probe right into the merits of this case,
Then all the evidence at once reveals
„ i An all too rapid ending to the chase.
The cat grows weary when the poor mouse
dies;
The sportsman seeks not game that’s
tamely shot;
Man wants whatever out of his reach lies,
And when lie’s reached to it he wants it
not.
All that is nature. Just natural you
Saw something strange, unusual, timid,
wild ;
Here for your sporting self was something
new
(You found the chase of much-chased men
too mild!)
Did I, the slave of you, the time, the place,
I’oo quick surrendering, quite spoiled tin-
chase.
N.s.w.
ALAN D. MICKIE.
The Bush Concert.
U dawn a green bird whistled clear,
At dusk a shrill-voiced cricket sang •
At id all the blue day, far and near,
\\ Ith woodland speech the thickets rang.
The little peoples of the earth,
Because the hours were sweet and long,
Knew that, the shade and sun were worth
The simple tribute of a song.
And down the road with rasp and snore-
Its chattering engines heard afar—
Went human progress past my door
Throned on a snuffling motor-car.
The cricket did not cease to shrill
Its joy amid the. dust blown after,
But kookaburras on the hill
Broke into peals of driest laughter.
N.S.W.
D. M. W.
Before.
Before you came —ah I was glad and free,
Light-hearted, joyous as a bird might be.
1 roamed across vast fields of shaken grass,
And watched the white feet of the morning
pass
Across the larkspur hills ; and in the rain
I’d watch the transient flight of birds again.
At primrose evening 1 would see them fly
Back to the reeded pool that held the sky.
Through the blue noon, like a bright broken
gem,
I’d watch a flower shaking on its stem,
With elfin mirth at what the wind might say
As he philandered gaily on his way.
Sometimes I’d seek an orchard lit. by spring,
A sliim’ring place of trees all blossoming;
I’d hear a flame of amber bees day-long
Over and over thrumming their small song.
That was before you came. Now, fettered. I
Must walk abroad beneath the arching sky,
Strange that an eager vagrant heart should
be
Susceptible to love's dear sophistry.
MX.
IVY GIBBS.
Dogma.
By rule ,°f thumb we subtle fools discover
1 las life's relationship to man, but miss
I he ancient thought that folds the youthful
lover,
The thought when lips of laughter meet
and kiss.
We can discern dogmatic truths; reveal
A few brief, new philosophies, that prove
Old shallow axioms when two lovers steal
In yellow moonight the old sweets of love.
Ah! what are laws and rules, when one soft
bosom
Has pressed its love, and lips have moved
and met
And clung; and love has shed its scented
blossom
Over some whispered, passionate regret?...
Stale jests of ugly Fate that cannot sever
1 wo hearts that leap Earth’s eartliiness for
ever!
TASMANIA.
H. HEIL SMITH.
After Storm.
The rain has ceased, the storm has passed.
And from my balcony
Blue skies, no longer overcast,
And golden sands I see.
Beneath the sun’s brave light, far-flung,
From houses round about
A happy folk—folk, old and young—
With joy at heart step out.
Released at last from roof and room,
With merry shout and smile,
Out, out they troop, grown tired of gloom,
To sun themselves awhile.
Right well the good sun welcomes them
With bright and cheery glance,
While merrily on twig and stem
The leaves and blossoms dance.
All dressed in summer garb are they,
In garments gay and brave,
As to the golden coast they stray
To tryst with wind and wave.
To warm their souls, to sun their lives—
Right well they do, I wis;
Birds quit their nests, bees leave their hives,
In weather such as this.
Like bees, like birds, from hives and nests,
With hearts and eyes aglow,
To Beauty’s board invited guests
They go, and rightly go.
Like bees, like birds, that tire of gloom
And love free-winged to roam,
Out, out they troop from roof and room,
Forth, forth from house and home.
So blithe they seem, so bright and fr, e,
Since I to them belong,
I. too. shall quit my balcony
And join their joyous throng.
N.S.W.
RODERIC QUINN.
Stars.
Dusk falls and smothers sound and sense;
Night’s in a gentle mood
And a blue veil of sweet pretence
Swathes the star multitude.
What’s to accept and what’s to praise
When, day’s frail urge o’erthrown,
Strides the impenetrable maze
Night in his wizard gown?
Can suns that rend the ether flood
With terror of their fires
Look quietly down on men who brood
On man’s mundane desires?
O Alpha of the showering tress
To whom the faithful pray.
What can you know of steadfastness
Who have yourself no stay?
The stars in roaring gales of light
Whirl on their blazing cores.
Cold bubbles of torrential might
Blowing to timeless shores.
All Heaven’s wild with clots of flame
Hurled by Time’s grenadiers;
Through aeons of misguided aim
Rove the mad, homeless spheres.
Their routes consigned or unconsigned,
Flame-birds in Heaven's simoom
They fret their myriad years to find
Inexorable doom.
Dead sources of eternal day
Ground to malignant dust
Stain the undying solar ray
With their undying must.
When shall these orbs their course complete?
What law in frenzy lies?
The staggered mind accepts defeat
Which the still heart denies.
For there’s a miracle of sound
The faithful watcher hears:
Like leaves that patter to the ground,
The falling of the years.
While lovers wandering near the lake
Where Heaven, reflected, glows,
Pause on their loitering path to take
From its quiet bush a rose.
VICTORIA.
FURNKEY MAUBICE.
Treasures.
These tilings I love:
A mountain etched against a sunset sky :
Waves tied with silver ribbons of moonlight;
Cloud galleons, on fleecy wings above,
Slow sailing over;
A wild bird’s vespers when the drowsy land
Is carpeted with dusk; red blooms and white
Of tangled clover;
Star-haunted streams; the feathered phalanx
high
With night at hand.
My treasures these,
And, knowing them, comes no beatitude
Of spirit in the ordered works that make
A city, with its graven artisti'ies
Of man’s endeavor;
For I have walked by wave-wet rocks; have
seen
The rising sun his jewelled arrows shake
On sea and river; t ,
Have known the glory of the waking wood
Where night has been.
MAORILAND.
RIVERINA.


Real Truck Axle
a
w
&
I
G 3
ss
"a
D
L_
-SL
h-
It'
The Republic rear axle turns more engine power into
profitable work, gets more power to the rear wheels
—enables greater loads to be carried under rough
road conditions —than any other type of axle.
The driving axle is entirely separate from the weight-
carrying axle, and all gears, operating in a bath of
oil, are protected by a dustproof housing. The driving
shafts, operating independently and freed from the
strain of load-carrying, are thus permitted to function
exclusively in the transmission of power to the rear
wheels.
The husky, drop-forged steel “I” beam member that
carries the load is free from all driving strain, and is
constructed to give maximum strength with minimum
weight.
This exclusive combination, ideal for both strength
and efficiency, provides unusually high road clearance.
Models 50 and 60, the two high-speed 6-cylinder
models, are fitted with bevel-gear-drive axles which
are more suitable for speed work.
A powerful engine with full pressure lubrication,
sturdy frame, drive-shaft brake, all combine to make
Republic the truck to work at a profit under Australian
conditions.
Ask your local dealer to show you the Republic rear
axle, together with other exclusive Republic features.
Models from I to 5 tons.
NEW SOUTH WALES:
Larke, Hoskins & Co., Ltd.,
177 to 185 William Street, Sydney.
VICTORIA:
Preston Motors Pty., Ltd.,
Cor. Elizabeth and Therry Sts., Melbourne.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA:
Rasch Motors, Ltd.,
69 Waymouth Street, Adelaide.
WESTERN AUSTRALIA:
Republic Truck Sales Co., Ltd.,
905 Hay Street, Perth.
QUEENSLAND:
Canada Cycle & Motor Agency (Q’l’d), LtcL,
Creek and Adelaide Streets, Brisbane.
NEW ZEALAND:
Inglis Bros. & Co., Ltd.,
Taranaki and Cable Streets, Wellington.
è
Factory Distributors: W. A. CROWLE, LTD., Crowle House, Castlereagh Street, SYDNEY, N.S.W.


é
ê
a p
SW/.-dar/*V ' J i
""' , vfi
ji,%-*.
•> aSMI W 0
B - SEPPEIT & SONS U«i‘
SOOTH AUSTHA.HA
ë
ē


The Bulletin
Vol. 48—No. 2470.
June 16, 1927.
REAL SOAP WANTED.
“There has not been a Royal Commission that was not a whitewashing affair since the Lands Commission, which shattered a number of reputations. Yet allegations
of corruption are heard on all sides.” —Sydney daily.
THE POLITICAL DEADBEAT 1 (writing testimonial): “Many years ago I used your soap, since when I have used no other.”


The Bulletin
THE NATIONAL AUSTRALIAN NEWSPAPER
“Australia for the White Man.”
Printed and published by William Macleod, of
Musgrave and McLeod Streets, Mosman, for IHE
Bulletin Newspaper Co., Ltd., at the Office of the
Co., 214 George Street, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia.
Melbourne Office : 154-162 Flinders Street.
London Office: No. 1 Wardour Street (near Picca-
dilly Circus), W.l. •
PUBLISHED ONCE A WEEK.
TERMS TO SUBSCRIBERS
(In Advance only).
I’Ostcd to ANY ADDRESS IN AUSTRALASIA, Weekly.
12 months, £1 J/s.; 6‘ months, 12s. lid.; 3 months, is.
To any address Overseas: 12 months, £1 Ids.; b
months, 15s. Gd.; 3 months, Bs.
Cheques, drafts, etc., which should he crossed, ana
all Business Communications to be addressed to the
Manager.
Special Notice.
All correspondence to be addressed to Box 2521 8.8.,
G.P.0., Sydney.
Insufficiently stamped letters are liable to be
The ‘contents of this paper are copyright by the
publishers. The right to reproduce or translate any
part of the contents of this number is hereby expressly
reserved by the publishers.
The Editor will carefully read and, where practic-
able, acknowledge in the “Correspondence’ column
all contributions submitted, whether in the form of
Political, Social or other Articles, Verse, Short dales
or Sketches (those dealing with Australian subjects
and not exceeding two columns in length, or, say,
3000 ivords, are specially acceptable), Paragraphs,
Letters or Newspaper Clippings. All communications
will he regarded as strictly confidential.
The Bulletin will return all unsuitable 3IS. when
the address is specified and stamps are enclosed. But
no MS. will be returned or preserved unless these
conditions are observed. When MS. is fonvaided
without stamps for return it will be understood that
the copy is to be destroyed if not acceptable. I ei-
sonal applications for return of MS. cannot receive
attention. Further. The Bulletin desires those
sending MS. to distinctly understand that it is not
responsible for the preservation or transmission of MS.
To Amateurs in Black and White.
Anyone supplying to The Bulletin original
humorous or other topical drawings in line or wash,
of sufficient merit and interest and, adapted for
direct reproduction, or any interesting photograph
illustrative of a current event will be paid for same
on acceptance. Any picture containing a good idea
but unfitted for direct reproduction —i.e., any picture
which has to be re-drawn —will be paid for as a
suggestion only. The conditions under which such
artistic contributions will be received are those
applying to M.S.
To Travellers Abroad.
“The Bulletin’s” representative in London is
L St. C. Grondona. No. 1 Wardour Street
(near Piccadilly Circus), W.l. Copies of
“The Bulletin” can be obtained from him or
the bookstall in the Main Hall at Australia
House. Also from Messrs. Gordon and Gotch, 75-
711 Farringdon Street, London, E.C.i.; and IF. Daw-
son and Sons, Cajinon House, Breams Buildings,
London, E.C.I/.; E. T. Hole, Holertli Satire Ser-
vice, J/G Fleet Street, London E.C.; “The British
Australian and New Zealander,” l/l'i-ll Australia
House, Strand, London, W.C.2; F. Algar, 58 Grace-
church Street, London, F.C.3.
South Africa. —The Central Kens Agency, Cape-
town, Durban and Johannesburg; Dawson and Son.
Capetown and Johannesburg; Havana House, Durban;
lchodesia News Agency, Salisbury; Benoni News
Agency, Benoni; Handel House, Kimberley, and
others.
Canada. — G. S. Forsyth and Co., Hastings
Street, Vancouver, II.C.
U.S.A.— Chicago: J. Roland Kay Co., 161 Fast
Erie Street, N. Michigan Boulevards; Rost Office
News Co., 33 West Monroe Street, Chicago. New
York: Brentano’s, sth Avenue and 27th Street, New
York City; Schultz News Agency. S.F. Corner 6th
Avenue and li2nd Street, New York City; Ilotaling’s
News Agency, 203 West h Ist Street, New York City.
Washington: Liberty News Co., Seattle, Washington;
Wheatley Neius Co., 701/ Market Street. San Francisco;
Wallace, The New Orleans News Man, 105 Royal
Street, New Orleans, La.; The Wide World News Stand,
51/11 South Main Street, Los Angeles, Cal.
Egypt. — Jacques, Horn and Co., the Colonial
Book and News Stores. Port Said, Egypt.
llono Kono. —Brewer and Co., 696 Pedder Street,
Hong Kong.
China. —Brener and Co., 31 Nanking Road.
Shanghai, China.
Penang, F.M.S. — K. Abdul Rahman, Bookstall,
Eastern and Oriental Hotel.
Ceylon.— T. L. De Silva, 3!) Chatham. Street,
Colombo.
Papua. —Whitten Bros.. Samurai and Port Moresby
FIJI. — A. Barker, Suva : Harry Gardiner. Metropole
Hairdressing Saloon, Suva.
Overseas Advertising: Representatives.
London.-— L. St. C. Grondona, No. 1 Wardour
Street (near Piccadilly Circus), W. 1.; Gordon and
Gotch, 75-79 Farringdon Street, London, E.C.I/.
U.S.A. — J. Roland Kay Co., 161 Fast Erie Street,
N. Michigan Roulevarde, Chicago.
Postage Rates.
Single copies of The Bulletin (registered as a
newspaper): — Commonwealth, New Zealand and Fiji;
lOoz., Id. United Kingdom: 1/oz. to lOoz., lid.; each
additional 1/oz., Id. All Sea Route: 160 z.. lid.
British Possessions and U.S.A,: 1/oz. or part thereof,
Id. Elsewhere. 20z.. Id.
THURSDAY, JUNE 16, 1927.
WHY AUSTRALIANS LEAVE HOME.
Seven or eight months ago it was recorded
that the N.S.W. Metropolitan Water, Sewer-
age and Drainage Board, whose revenue is
in the neighborhood of £2,000,000 p.a., had
bestowed £lOO on one of its employees for
suggesting improvements to three imported
machines, improvements which, it was esti-
mated, would effect a saving to the board
of £2760 p.a. Since then another employee
lias invented an attachment to drilling-
machines enabling water-main cocks to be
withdrawn, and a screw plug inserted in the
lapped hole, without shutting off supplies
to the householder. This was reported to
the board, with a recommendation that the
inventor “be paid a bonus of £5O, plus the
cost, estimated at £3O, of taking out Aus-
tralian patent rights, the board retaining
the right to use the device without any
further payment.” It was mentioned that
the invention would save the board £2OOO
p.a. An alderman from Wollongong, speak-
ing with honest emotion, described the pro-
posed reward as “niggardly.” A Sydney
Labor alderman, while more restrained in
his language, suggested that £lOO would be
“a fair thing.” A Nationalist from the
North Shore said that- the man had been
at work on his invention for eight years,
and moved that, the bonus should be 10 p.c.
on the first year’s saving, or £2OO. He was
understood to be willing to continue the
10 p.c. proposal for three years. But the
general feeling seems to have been that
the custom of giving a few pounds for an
invention calculated to save the Government
thousands should not be recklessly departed
from; and consideration of the matter was
postponed.
The custom referred to is by no means
peculiar to the N.S.W. Metropolitan Water,
Sewerage and Drainage Board. It has be-
come a regular feature of public ownership,
which was going to do so much for Aus-
tralia. The notion underlying it seems to
be that employees whose inventions and
discoveries are accepted ought to consider
themselves recompensed, for the most part,
by the honor and glory—that and the favor
of being kept in their jobs. The N.S.W.
Railway Department has a Suggestions, In-
ventions and Economies Board which,
according to the gentleman who was lately
Minister, has been the means of distributing
rewards amounting to just on £28,000 in
the course of six years. This looks fairly
liberal until the departmental reports are
examined; then one learns that the sug-
gestions for which the £28,000 was paid
ran into thousands and have resulted in
“cumulative savings” estimated at “over
£600,000.” Also that they were not merely
chance ideas that occurred to railwaymen
in idle moments; in hundreds of cases they
were carefully-thought-out inventions, in-
volving some expense as well as prolonged
calculations under the lamp and patient toil
in home workshops. The Westralian Rail-
way Department also has a Suggestions and
Economies Board, but gives no estimate of
the savings effected, while suggesting that
they have been considerable. However, it
proudly announces that a noble £373 was
scattered among 41 innovators in 1925-26
and a magnificent £269 among 48 in 1924-25.
The South Aus. enterprise, still less explicit,
mentions that “206 suggestions from the
staff were received and dealt with during
the year, and a number of bonuses were
granted and commendations placed on the
records of employees.”
Of a piece with this recognition of talent
in the field of mechanical invention is the
remuneration of officers engaged in research
work and the like. There are men who
wage ceaseless war on the prickly-pear, the
sheep blowfly, the cattle tick and the fruit-
fly; men whose job it is to handle stock
dead of anthrax, pleuro-pneumonia, tubercu-
losis and actinomycosis and keep the diseases
in check; men who analyse soils and plants
suspected of being poisonous, who conduct
experiments for the control of black spot
and blue mould, who introduce fodder plants
and determine which are suited to Australian
conditions and requirements, who test seed
and breed disease- and drought-resistant
varieties of wheat, barley and oats. Their
work is highly skilled and immensely im-
portant to Australia, while that of the in-
spectors who have to deal with stock dis-
eases communicable to man is sometimes
dangerous. But the pay is in no case high
(£lOOO a year is almost unheard of) and in
many instances it is less than that of an
unskilled laborer. Two experimentalists on
the scientific staff of the N.S.W. Depart-
ment of Agriculture receive £306 p.a. Two
assistants draw £244 p.a., five others £220
p.a. and another £177 p.a. In these cases
there are deductions, too, for board and
lodging. And rates of pay in the N.SAV.
public service are above the Australian
average.
Australia is probably the best place on
earth for the unskilled laborer, and for mob-
flattering politicians and their private secre-
taries, so many of whom are shoved into
lucrative and un laborious positions. But
it is far from being the best place on earth
for men with a talent for mechanical in-
vention, for engineering (incidentally, the
builder of Sydney’s harbor bridge and city
railway is drawing less than Joe Cook’s
secretary) and for the scientific side of
agriculture and stockbreeding, especially
such as have to look to public bodies for
employment. It has abolished one form of
sweating, and rightly so, but another and
more destructive form remains. Manual
workers are no longer sweated as a matter
of policy, but brain workers are. As a result,
there is a persistent exodus of clever young
Australians to foreign parts, and, except as
holiday-makers,' they rarely return. It is
a kind of migration which no nation can
afford. There is one way of stopping it,
and one only, and that is to offer ability
its fair world’s-market price—to pay as
liberally for brains as other countries do.
THE GUM-TREE PARTY.
The Australian Gum-tree Party Associa-
tion, of which Federal Treasurer Earle
Page is the head, lately met in Sydney, and
conferred in its annual fashion. It resolved
on many things, but supplied plans and
specifications about none. An outstanding
drawback of the organisation is that it has
plenty of “objectives,” but they lack fixity,
and a big, soul-stirring objective isn’t there.
A really convincing crowd with a name like
that would aim at the further subdivision
of the continent, with more subdivisions to
follow if necessary. The simplest idea
would be to separate city and country
where the big town has become overwhelm-
ing, so that disproportionate masses such
as Sydney, Melbourne and Adelaide could
become States of the Commonwealth, after
the style of Hamburg, Bremen, Lubeek and
Buenos Aires. There has long been a move-
ment for the establishment of Greater Mel-
bourne and Greater Sydney, and Greater
Brisbane has actually arrived. It would be
a logical plan to make such a place Greater
still in order to allow for eventualities and
call the big Council a medium-sized Par-
liament. As Greater Brisbane is nearly
three times the size of the ancient republic
of Hamburg, and is larger than the three
republics of Hamburg, Bremen and Lubeek
put together, it might stand being a State,
especially if its area was multiplied by two
or three. After the subdivision was made
the Country Party could manage local
affairs according to Country wisdom, and
send its own bloc, Low Tariff or otherwise,
to the Representatives and the Senate.
Being no longer hampered to anything like
the present extent by Nationalists and
Laborites in the rural areas, it might turn
into realities many of what are now only
vague aspirations, and the outer parts and
outer ports might come into their own at
last. Some such subdivision should not
only be in the front of the programme; it
should almost be the programme.
However, the association stuck to its
familiar line and passed familiar resolutions
such as this:—
“That the policy of indiscriminate high
Protection tends to increase the cost of
living and production and destroy efficiency
and service. The Australian Country Party
therefore urges the fullest inquiry, by a truly
representative body, to determine what con-
stitutes the natural and essential industries
of the Commonwealth, the order in which
such industries should be developed, the
conditions necessary to their efficient estab-
lishment. and the extent of the tariff pro-
tection or bounties which such industries
require for their maintenance from time to
time.”
And also:—
“That the Australian primary industries be
safeguarded by legislation placing them on
a more equal footing with secondary indus-
tries, and ensuring them ’against competition
detrimental to the White Australia policy.”
That sort of thing shows the confused sense
of injury which has been instilled into the
bucolic mind by importers’ agents. The
Australian agriculturist is realty a very
much-protected individual and very much
dependent on Protection. But for the tariff
he would quite commonly witness the spec-
tacle of foreign wheat, butter and cheese
pouring in at a dozen ports to damage his
local market, while similar goods were pour-
ing out at other ports to supply foreign
markets. Parts of a continent depend on
other parts for many common articles of
food, and the other parts only keep the
trade, so far as they do keep it, by putting
up a tariff wall against foreign produce
brought hither on deep-sea ships. The out-
back farmer would in some years lose his
grip on the Sydney wheat market itself, and
possibly be forced out of business, but for
huge railway rebates and a considerable
duty. A tax of 4d. per lb. is considered
essential to keep out the American hog.
Even now there is a demand for greatly in-
creased duties on butter and hops.
❖ ❖ :J: sji
The year 1926-27 promises to be Aus-
tralia’s record for importations and its
worst for the failure of exports to cover
them and foreign liabilities. It also pro-
mises to be a record for loans, apart from
war loans. It is putting up a very
fine record, too, for unemployment, which
is natural. The more foreign goods are im-
ported, and largely paid for with loans, the
less w 7 ork there is available at making local
goods. Loans, importing and unemployment
go together. The last trades-union return
for N.S.W. alleged that 7 per cent, of the
members were jobless, not counting men on
strike or locked out. It was the worst
record among the States; but, then, N.S.W.
is the biggest borrower and has the 44-
hour disease badly. Queensland has the
same complaint and makes the next worst
showing for lack of work. In addition, far
too many courts are far too busy cutting
down hours and production and raising the
cost of living, and making the country more
dependent on imports and loans. With all
these materials available to make a fighting
policy out of, and with the Federal Treasurer
and half-Prime Minister to assist, the
annual conference of the Gum-tree Party
might have laid better and bigger plans
for the future than it did. It has often
been urged by The Bulletin that the way
to right the balance of trade and reduce
or destroy the necessity for external loans
is to prepare a formidable list of Goods
That Australia Can Do Without, and pro-
hibit their importation. Australian poli-
ticians having a dread of being unusual
except in doing rotten things, the idea shows
no sign of catching on. The French Gov-
ernment is less somnolent. It has decided
that France can’t: stand the bill for im-
ported coal, for instance; so it has ukased
that no more coal shall enter the country
except by permit, and has issued a formid-
able list, of purposes for which permits will
not be granted. Yet. in proportion to popu-
lation, France imports less than half as
much as Australia does.
PLAIN ENGLISH.
Room for a Centre Party.
“Fitzwilliam”: Now that the N. S. Wales
Progressives have politely committed sui-
cide, at the request of the Nationalists, a
wonderful opportunity has opened up for
Mutch, if he has the sense to seize it by the
fetlock, or the short hairs, or something. It
has never been true, in spite of the poet,
that Every little boy and gal Who’s born
into the world alive Is either a little Liberal
Or else a little Conservative. There is
always the Centre party, who look upon
the Extreme Right and the Immoderate
Left as equally damnable in their own ways.
The Centres of N.S.W. have always been
unhappy. They don’t fit into the two-party
system, and the political history of N.S.W.
ever since Federation has been the history
of the Centres’ attempt to find a place for
themselves. In the great days of Watson
and Fisher, when the Labor party seemed
to have vision, the Centres went over to
them in thousands, and put Labor on top.
An opportunity came in 1915 for the forma-
tion of a strong Centre party, when Labor
is said to have blown out its brains. Pos-
sibly it was not its brains that were blown
out; anyhow, the “brains,” instead of seiz-
ing their chance, coalesced or pacted with
the Extreme Right and called themselves
Nationalists.
The true Centres have never been happy
with the Nat. crowd. Politically,’ they arc
nearly as alien to it as the extremists at
the other end of the spectrum. Hence the
formation of the Progressive party. Unfor-
tunately, the Progs, made the political mis-
take of allying themselves with the Agra-
rians. The Agrarians are by nature nearly
as reactionary as the Extreme Right, but
they retained a certain amount of Centro
support, for the one reason,, I believe, that
they refused to partake in the pre-selection
swindle. Accordingly, the Progressives, for
a time, had the chance, in spite of their
Agrarian associates, of building up a strong
Centre party, which in time might have
been stronger than either of the old parties.
Unfortunately, they were never well led.
Weaicxe and the breakaways -wouldn’t wait,
but went after the loaves and fishes; and
though the remnant hung on for a time.
Buttenshaw has now sold the pass, and
the Progressives will merge in the Nation-
alists.
Normally, the Centre party would be
homeless again, and would either do as thou-
sands have done in the past—stay away
from the polls altogether, or else, as a few
have done, ally themselves with one or other
of the extremists. This is going to be
Mutch’s opportunity. He has definitely
broken away from the Red end of the spec-
trum, and as the Progressives have been
fools enough to move over to the extreme
Right, or violet end, he has an excellent
chance of gathering in the light blues, not
to speak of the yellows.
To drop physical metaphors, it comes
down to this, that there are a lot of us who
never have j oined and never will j oin up with
any extreme party. We are moderate when we
are allowed to be, and when we are not
allowed to be moderate we simply don’t
vote. If Mutch has the intelligence to see
it, Buttenshaw has given him the best
chance he is ever likely to have of building
up the old Labor party. He is luckier than
Watson ever was, for he has got rid of his
extremists, which Watson never did; and.
if he can find time, in the intervals of slang-
ing Lang, to come out with some sort of
constructive policy, he has a remarkably
good chance of coming home at the head of
the strongest party of the three.
*
Is Russia Asking for Trouble?
Thirteen years ago an Austrian subject
murdered an Austrian prince on Austrian
soil, whereupon Austria declared Serbia
responsible, and rushed into the world war
which was its finish. It has been said that
the prince was mixed up in a conspiracy
against the old man (elaborate details ol
alleged conspiracy have been given), and
was sent into a danger spot in the hope that
he might be removed and at the same time
furnish an excuse for something which was
practically annexation. The new situation
is that a Russian subject has murdered a
Russian ambassador on Polish soil (the soil
question prevents the cases being exactly
parallel), and the Soviet Government has
promptly made a show of holding Poland
responsible, and has struck a lofty note ol
damaged dignity. Also, it has murdered 20
political prisoners in cold blood, alleging
that some of its victims “illegally entered
Soviet territory” and that others supplied
information to the British Mission. Red
Russia and the- Prussian concern have
a joint craving for the recovery of
lost territory, Poland, Lithuania, Estonia.
Latvia, Finland and Danzig being among
the losses. Four of these States are much
too small for defensive purposes, and.
though Finland has an outlet on the Arctic
Ocean, they lead a bottled-up existence
and are not to be easily helped by sea-
faring allies. The defunct ambassador was
largely and directly responsible for the slay-
ing of the Czar and his family, so ho wa-
a very good person to leave lying about in
exposed places if an excuse for quarrel way
wanted. As Poland swarms with ant i-
Bolshevik refugees, it took serious risks m
accepting such a combustible envoy, but
possibly the Soviet Government would haw
got its back up like a camel if he had been
rejected.


How the Romanoffs Died.
The assassination of Voikoff, the Soviet
Charge d’Affaires at Warsaw, by a young
Russian monarchist has aroused new interest
in the circumstances attending the murder
in 1918 of the ex-Czar Nicholas, his wife,
children and retainers at Ekaterinburg, the
headquarters of the Communists in the
Urals. The name of Voikoff has been
associated with the crime, though it is
doubtful whether he, as alleged, personally
signed the death warrant of the Imperial
family. The Ural Council was divided on
the question of what should be done with
Nicholas. One section was in favor of
killing lnm, and endeavored to bring the
dissenters round to their view r . Repeated
applications w T ere made to Moscow to order
or sanction the execution, but the Central
Executive Committee, like the local execu-
tive, was itself divided. The President,
Sverdlof, advocated killing forthwith; on
the other hand Lenin and Trotsky, with
a majority of the executive supporting
them, advised a public trial. But the
extremists in Ekaterinburg had their way.
According to F. A. Mackenzie’s “W orld-
famous Crimes of the Twentieth Century,”
the regicide in chief was Jacob Yurovsky,
who was high up in the councils ot the
Ekaterinburg Reds, a commissar of Justice
and member of the local executive. Yur-
ovsky was the son of a dealer in second-
hand metal, had lived for some time in
the U.S.A., and on his return to Russia kept
a watch and photographic-material shop.
The details of the execution were delegated
to a workman, Petr Zakharovitch, who,
having sworn that he would exterminate the
Romanoff brood, obtained three iron
cylinders of sulphuric acid and a number
of cans of kerosene. With the latter he
proposed to burn the bodies, and the acid
would then eat up the remains.
On the last day of the captivity of the
Czar’s family
“Someone shouted to them to stand against
the farther wall, whereupon they stepped
back and Nicholas put the sick boy on a
chair standing there. Four men, with
Yurovsky at their head, entered the cellar.
They were all armed with heavy Russian
army revolvers, and behind them were sol-
diers from the Che-ka armed with rifles, who
kept mostly in the passage. Yurovsky car-
ried in his left hand the order of the Praese-
dium of the Ural Council decreeing the death
of Nicholas. ‘You, Romanoff, have been
sentenced,’ he shouted. ‘There is no hope for
you. You all have to die.’ The Czarina and
one of her daughters fell on their knees and
crossed themselves, their 1 lips moving in
prayer. Nicholas seemed as though he could
not understand. ‘Are we not going some-
where else?’ he said in a half-dazed voice.
Before the last word was finished the four-
revolvers were fired simultaneously at him,
and then the Czarevitch and the others were
shot down.... Anastasia, the youngest
daughter, fell to the ground and feigned
death. They beat her head in with the
metal-shod ends of their rifles. The room
was a shambles. Behind was another cellar
firmly locked.”
:< I have seen,” Mackenzie writes, “the
big, deep stain where the blood ran under
its doorway.”
The murderers piled the bodies up, threw
kerosene upon them and watched them
burn; the fragments they tried to destroy
with the acid Petr had provided; the ashes
remaining were buried in a pit.
A few days later the Czecho-Slovakian
troops who had been pressing forward to
effect a rescue entered Ekaterinburg and
the Reds retreated before them.
4
Stern Instructions to Earle Page.
The Country party, which is both State
and Federal, lately sat in conference and,
with the N.S.W. elections in view, compiled
‘planks” in a rapid way. In the main they
were respectable and even blameless planks,
but the curse of indefiniteness was thickly
spread over all. For instance, there could
be no serious objection to the proposal that
the Ma State’s Upper House should be
put “on an elective basis ; with limitation of
numbers and tenure of office.” An in-
numerable Upper House elected for eternity
might develop into a nuisance. Still it
would have been illuminating if the con-
ference had said something about, the size
of its new Leg. Council, mode of election,
qualification of electors and members, re-
muneration of members and tenure of
office.
But the conference surpassed itself when
it put in a four-word item, and did it with
(he profound calm of an ant proposing to
carry away a mountain:—J
REDUCTION OF NATIONAL DEBT.
It would have been better if “complete
repayment,” had been substituted for “re-
duction,” but that would have made an
extra word and the conference was afraid of
being garrulous. Anyhow, reduction, if per-
sisted in long enough, will end in extinction,
and despite the regrettable brevity the
aspiration is a noble one. How is it going
to be done?
It is assumed that the movement is to be
an All-Australian one, and the first proceed-
ing is for the seven Governments to get into
the habit of having a surplus over their
everyday expenditure instead of a chronic
deficit. In other words, they must learn
to do all the public works policy which is
necessary out of revenue, and cease from
raising new loans as a preliminary to the
repayment of old ones. Considering that
the aggregate State expenditure has more
than doubled inside ten years, there should
be room for a lot of economy despite the
huge growth of interest bills; and Treasurers
might even unearth some small devices for
producing more income.
Having got into a position to dispense
with loans for public works, the six States
and the Commonwealth would all go bank-
rupt in one heroic act for want of new loans
in England or the United States or some-
where abroad unless the country contrived
to make exports exceed imports by some-
thing like £30,000,000 per annum, instead of
being, as they sometimes are, as much as
£21,000,000 short. No visible or conceiv-
able method exists for making people abroad
buy 30 to 50 millions’ worth more Australian
goods which don’t exist, or making them
pay that much more even for goods which
do exist; so the matter which the Country
party has lightly taken on is one of reduc-
ing imports. Protection has proved insuffi-
cient, an increase in the tariff being too
often countered by increased wages and
decreased output; so something else is
wanted. One expedient would be for the
Federal Government to acquire control of
the situation and turn merchant and ex-
porter. In other words it might purchase
vast and sufficient quantities of exportable
produce, pay for them with paper money out
of the surplus, sell them for gold abroad,
and meet interest bills and etceteras with
the proceeds. Assuming external borrowing
to stop, as the Country party’s four-word
plank says it must do, and repayment set
in as a substitute, this process would cut
down imports to the amount required to
balance the ledger. It would also either
make Australians lead the simple life or
else furnish a remarkable amount of employ-
ment, or do both. Another device would
be to put a number of imports on the pro-
hibited list. Possibly the simplest course
would be to mix the two methods.
Anyhow, the Country party has given its
leader, who in Federal affairs is Treasurer
Earle Page, definite instructions to reduce
the debt; so he had better stop raising loans
for the States or anybody else, and get
busy in other directions. It was rather
like an anomaly that the plank next to
“Reduction of National Debt” should be
“One Borrowing Authority for Australia,”
but it may have been only renewal loans
that the conference had in view. Otherwise
it was an ass of a plank.
4
The Tax on Ether.
When this century has grown a little older
and has become accustomed to its sur-
roundings, the proceedings of the Royal
Commission on Wireless, if they are ever
recalled to memory, will probably serve to
point a very good joke for some lecturer on
archaeology. The fact that one could trans-
mit electrical impulses of a sufficiently high
voltage through quite surprising distances
was established by Helmholtz and other
thoughtful students in the years when
our fathers were watching for a faint
growth on the upper lip, and wireless has
now been a plaything for electrical amateurs
and a money-maker for such astute thinkers
as Marconi for a great many years.
But it was only when the microphone had
been adapted to the scientific toy
with nicety that the entrepreneurs began
to think that there might be here a rival
to the gramophone. They got hold of the
idea at a time when the communication
systems of the world were under espionage,
the nations being at war, and with their
parrot-like proclivity for copying an idea
they reached for the ears of various Govern-
ments and said “We are going to organise
some concerts and send them through the
ether, and we think you ought to make it
a penal offence for anybody to own an im-
plement capable of hearing those concerts
unless we get a rake-off. If you will oblige us
you will get a rake-off too, thereby making
a tax grow where none grew before.” So
it comes about that in Australia a gentle-
man named Tait gets £1650 a year and
numerous other more or less wealthy gentle-
men £BOO a year because they had the fore-
sight to see that this new-fangled competitor
of the piano-player and the phonograph
would intrigue the imagination of the
twentieth century.
That they get this tribute from the com-
munity doesn’t matter much. They are
bound to get it somehow, and if they didn’t
get it that way they would get it some other
way. But it does matter that the tax that
they inspired presses most hardly on the
people—chiefly youngsters—who are taking
this new power seriously. Young persons
with a capacity to wonder at the new inven-
tion and an avid desire to verse themselves
in its mysteries find that what Tait, Tallis
and Co. call the ether has been cut up into
subdivisions and leased from the Govern-
ment so that they may farm it out. It is
a case of taking the commercial genius of
one century too far into the next. If some
influential gentleman devised a method of
tinging the air with a faint perfume and
insisted that because he had done so every-
body should pay him for being allowed to
breathe it, his claim would be laughed out
of court. But this ether is a new-fangled
thing and there are possibly folk who think
that 3LO or XY6 created it. They didn’t.
They are people who bought some dynamos
and hired people to talk, sing and play.
The fact that all the most expensive receiv-
ing sets were bought so that what was
talked, sung or played might be listened to
gives the claim to tribute a colorable sub-
stance; but the youngster with a crystal
set who is striving hard to master a new
science and perhaps to climb a humble rung
or two in the ladder of knowledge, and who
finds he has to pay about 100 per cent, per
annum on his capital investment, knows
that the claim is a bogus one.
If radio sets were rented by the purveyors
of wireless concerts and so adjusted that
they could take only what they were in-
tended to hear, the position would be differ-
ent. But Sydney already listens to Amster-
dam and London and New York, and Mel-
bourne enjoys the fare provided by broad-
casting stations in Dunedin, Paris and
Buenos Ayres. Next year, perchance, the
sonatas of Saturn and the military marches
of Mars will be available to the nicely-
tuned cat’s whisker, and the kid who built
a set out of stuff he found in dad’s workshop
will wonder still more bitterly why he has
to pay 275. 6d. a year towards the main-
tenance of gentlemen who wouldn’t know
a condenser from a grid if the two things
walked up and bit them in the leg.
4
The Pedant on the Bench.
In 1920 a man then residing in Brisbane
deserted his wife and four children. With-
out, making any provision for them he
to Sydney and got work under the
Sydney Water Board. Whilst so employed
he was killed. After deserting his wife he
had taken a mistress, by whom he had a
child, and he had assumed the duties of
parent towards a second child whom the
mistress had brought into the establishment.
The wife, having endeavored but failed to
locate her erring husband and bring him
to book, was forced in the absence of his
assistance to rely upon her own efforts for
the support of herself and children.
After the husband’s death both women
applied to the then newly established
Workers’ Compensation Commission of N.
S. Wales. The mistress was able to show
that at the time of Hali/s death she and
the two children were in actual receipt of
maintenance from him. The wife, on the
other hand, could only show that in despair
of following up her unfaithful husband she
had been forced to rely on her own efforts
for maintenance. The Commission took the
view that the mistress and her children were
in law actual dependants, whereas the wife
and her children who had been forced to
find food and shelter for themselves were
thereby no longer actual dependants.
To this outrage on the public conscience
The Bulletin called attention at the time:
the application of a pedantic interpreta-
tion of the law in a Court whose whole
spirit was widely advertised as benevolent
and philanthropic was an anomaly that
shrieked for criticism. Apparently the
Court has seen the error of its ways, for,
under the camouflage of “additional evi-
dence,” it has now revised its decision and,
with unwitting satire, placed the legitimate
wife and legitimate children on the same
plane as the mistress and her brood. It is
true additional evidence was produced at
the reconsideration of the case, but all of
it could have been elicited by the Com-
mission at the original hearing.
The more this Commission applies to its
business the broad principles of equity and
the less it has to do with pedantic points
of law the greater respect it will win from
the communitv.
—4
Mental Defect and Sterilisation.
“Sike”: “Sol Malaprop” rejoices that the
U.S. Supreme Court has upheld the law of
the State of Virginia which provides for
the sterilisation of the feeble-minded (B.
2/6/’27). His satisfaction is ill-founded.
One of his arguments is specious; “Modern
surgery has made the operation a painless
one, and the bringing forth of feeble-minded
children isn’t painless.” A surgeon could
remove “Sol’s” head quite painlessly; but
the painlessness would scarcely compensate
for the after-effects. As a matter of fact,
while the sterilising operation is, in the
case of a male, simple and safe, the opera-
tion necessary in a female is of a far
more serious nature, involving the risks
attendant upon any abdominal operation.
As a method of attacking the problem of
mental defect, sterilisation is always certain
of support, simply because it is cheap. But
here, as elsewhere, the cheapest method is
not the best.
The Medical Committee of the Central
Association for Mental Welfare, London,
has submitted a report on the subject. It
will suffice to mention one or two of the
findings. These competent authorities point
out that, although mental defect is un-
doubtedly inherited, only a comparatively
small proportion of defective people are
the offspring of obviously defective parents.
Most of them are the children either of
apparently normal people, or of those suffer-
ing from insanity, psychoneurosis or a mild
degree of mental or physical abnormality
which is not certifiable. It follows that even
if all certifiable defectives were sterilised—
and this is unimaginable—mental defect
would be by no means eradicated, and its
prevention would be affected only to a
partial extent.
Not only would sterilisation produce only
limited preventive effects, but it would also
entail serious disadvantages in other direc-
tions. It would lead to a false sense of
security, the setting at liberty of many
defectives who should be segregated, and
a consequent increase in the incidence of
venereal diseases and their sequelae.
If we add to this considered opinion the
fact that in America the sterilisation laws
have proved unworkable and an utter fail-
ure, it becomes ' clear that sterilisation is
not a practice which should “spread ex-
ceedingly.”
Australia and Colored Brother.
There is satisfaction in the fact that the
International Labor Conference at Geneva
has registered high approval of, the treatment
of natives in the Australian mandates in the
Western Pacific. Special praise is bestowed
on the regulations governing native labor,
with their provisions for written contracts,
ration scales, housing, pay and medical
attendance. A testimonial of such a nature
in the headquarters of the League of
Nations will be of value to this country,
since it cannot be ignored by that body
when the question of the mandates recurs.
This has seldom happened in the past with-
out objections to, and charges against, the
Australian mandatories from one source or
another. The unsolicited evidence from
the Labor Conference must weigh heavily
against future complainings.
If further evidence of this country’s desire
to play the game with its Pacific proteges
is needed, it may be found in a bill intro-
duced to the Papuan Legislature. Papua
has been nearly half a century under British
control, and for the last half of that time
has been administered, by Australia. The
result, as far as the well-being of the
native is concerned, is surprising. The new
bill proposes to still further advance his
condition. In the past he has been a party
to a voluntary contract to work for a
stated period. Under the new bill “signing
on” will be abolished, and he can go to
work, cease work or tell his protesting em-
ployer to go and get work. If he likes he
can go further and form a union. He prob-
ably will.
The change is revolutionary and has pro-
duced some grumbling among the old regime
of white employers. But, however that may
be, the Administration’s gesture of confidence
and equality will do no harm to the cause
of its neighbors in the Mandated Terri-
tories, always under the sometimes queru-
lous eye of the Geneva bureaucrats.
4
A Plea for the Nurse.
It has been pretty generally recognised that
the nursing profession is overworked and
underpaid and that the conditions under
which its members serve ought to be im-
proved, or at least not made any worse.
Certainly one would not have believed that
a hospital committee could be found willing
to make trainees’ conditions harder than
they are at present. Yet that is what the
committee of one of Sydney’s leading public
institutions decided to do at a recent meet-
ing.
This hospital’s nurses rise at 5 a.m. six
days a week and frequently work till 9
p.m. for a weekly wage that varies from
ss. 4d. the first year to 20s. the fourth year;
but until now they had at least the conso-
lation of knowing that if they fell ill (and
nurses’ illnesses are mostly due to infections,
from mumps and scarlet fever to septic
conditions of fingers or arms, or to sheer
overwork), the hospital’s services were at
their disposal. But, things are to change:
“In future nurses will be expected to defray
part of the cost of any medical or nursing
treatment they may receive while in hospi-
tal. No salary will be paid to nurses while
on sick leave, and at the end of their four
years’ training nurses must serve the hospi-
tal without pay for a period of time equal
to the full amount of sick leave taken during
the four years.”
No wonder it is becoming increasingly
difficult to secure the right type of trainees !
Even ministering angels must jib when the
conditions of their employment are worse
than those of kitchen-maids or navvies. The
fact that a small percentage of the girls
come from wealthy homes does not affect
the question at all.
In Maoriland they are better appreciators
of the supply of cheerful, alert women. From
her entry into Dunedin Hospital, a pro-
bationer receives regular physical-culture
tuition from an expert in a properly-
equipped gymnasium; her posture and car-
riage are corrected if faulty; and the arches
of her feet—a nurse is mostly standing when
she isn’t running—are examined not only
on entry, but from time to time, and treated
if necessary. The result is less fatigue
during the day and less sick-leave during
the year. No Sydney hospital has dreamt
of a gym. for nurses; yet the benefit would
be tremendous.
If the Sydney board’s idea is to save
money, it should follow other employers of
labor who have found that it is cheaper in
the long run to have a decent human regard
for the welfare of those in their employ.
O
While Queensland has been asking how she
is going to get store sheep to replace the
recent drought losses, N.S.W. has been
wondering how to get rid of her surplus
jumbucks. Under the present policy of
splendid isolation, neither State is able to
help the other when one is stricken by a
drought and its neighbor is wallowing in a
good season. N. S. Wales is due for a
general dry spell before long, and carries far
too many sheep. Queensland will buy
“stores” when the drought has diminished
enough to permit the primitive method of
on-the-hoof transport, which is still the only
practicable one between the two States.
That prospect being tinged with vagueness.
N.S.W. graziers have been considering the
position: the Federal and State Govern-
ments are to be “approached” and requested
to help in “improving the mutton export
trade.” But why? In view of the experience
of the past few years there seems to be no
earthly warrant for calling in the State.


i
a
-ar
1:1
0 nm
//■I
m
il
71
a#
dll
0
st
ap
nr>
A /TiY/Th
I I'l lUffiLlXlil
jts=
-by express
-by liner
TMustralia
Capital Paid-up £l/22,100.
The Hotel of the Commonwealth, Sydney.
BY express and liner from every corner of the globe
come the guests of “The Australia.” That these
travellers from the five continents and the seven
seas should express this decided preference is some-
thing of which we are proud. May we commend their
choice as a guide when you, too, come to Sydney?
Telegraphic, Wireless and Cable Address:
“Austraotel, Sydney.”
Magnificently illustrated folder free on request.
POLITICAL
POINTS
Tom Mutch, who was thrown out of the
Ministry of Education by N.S.W. Premier
Slang and is now leader of the State Labor
party that doesn’t believe in a dictatorship of
the proletariat, has scored heavily in his con-
test with his late chief over the treatment
of Bethel of the Child Welfare Department,
whose cause lie espoused. A Supreme Court
Judge finds that Bethel “very ably admini-
stered an exceptionally difficult department” ;
that Mutch was justified in resenting the
Premier’s “prosecuting a secret inquiry into
Mr. Mutch’s department behind his back” and
in stigmatising the Auditor-General’s report
on the matter as “unfair” ; and that in under-
taking to provide the said report the Auditor-
General exceeded his powers, in addition to
which “he adopted the role of an advocate
rather than that of a Judge, and ignored all
evidence but such as was in favor of his argu-
ment.” Evidently, N. S. Wales needs a
new Auditor-General as well as a new
Premier.
N.S.W. Premier Slang is claiming great
credit for his child-endowment scheme, but
the Prime Minister seems in a fair way to
spike his gun by making it a Federal matter.
There certainly are merits in a well-
considered endowment scheme, and it should
apply all round, but at present Lang wants
all the merits and credit he can lay hands
on for his own separate use. A weird report
has been circulated that the man from
Auburn may make a resounding bid for
popular favor by promising, if returned to
power, to put women’s wages up to the male
level —to raise them, in fact, from 50s. sd.
to 98s. 7d. per week all round. It would
be a lift xvorthy of Hercules.
During the Warringah by-election most
of the N. S. Wales Nationalist M’s.L.A.
went on the platform and explained how
horrified they were to think that anyone
calling himself a Nationalist could come out
against the noble institution of pre-selection.
Nearly all these worthies are now reduced
to contesting pre-selection ballots on their
own account, there being a record rush of
candidates for the party nomination; and
apparently some of them feel they are going
to be licked, for squeals can be heard already.
Still, they ought to be ready to sacrifice
themselves for pre-selection, if it is so beauti-
ful a thing.
The Victorian State Electricity Depart-
ment recently required four lots of goods,
and, as is the nature of the official animal, it
went abroad for them. In the end it went to
four German firms for the lot at a cost of
£43,000-odd. The State will doubtless bor-
row £43,000 abroad at 5 per cent, to make
up for the consequent lack of employment,
and at the end of 50 years it will have paid
away about £450,000. reckoning interest hnd
compound interest, for the use of it, and
will still owe the entire £43.000. How much
the four German firms will be worth by that
time is too dreadful to think of.
When the accounts for 1926-27 are made
up it is reckoned that the States’ “permanent
TEACHING THEM TO RESPECT THE LAW.
“Vic. police are agitating against having to execute distress warrants on behalf of money-lenders and
cash-order firms, which they describe as ‘the most degrading job in the world.’”
MONEY -“Ven you're distraining on No. 23, my poy, don’t lei ’em give you
any cheek—learn ’em to love an’ respec’ der law.”
and reproductive works,” including the won-
derful variety of railway gauges, will fall
£11,000,000 short of being reproductive,
enough to pay their way, and perhaps a
good deal more than that. As for their per-
manence, it isn’t increasing. A few things,
death for example, become more permanent
with years, but assets that are worth having
only wear out.
It was recently announced that Australia
is, in proportion to population, the world’s
greatest picture-film market, which is much
the same as being the Yankee’s best film cus-
tomer. _ The super-abufidance of cowboy
•‘movies” is part of the high Australian stan-
dard of living which requires so much loan
money to keep it up.
The Cheka, which is the Russian tribunal
of Terror and Sudden Death, got busy at
executing persons who were supposed to dis-
like the present Government (Oppositionists,
in fact) because a Russian shot the Russian
ambassador at Warsaw, and 20 were dis-
posed of so promptly that the trials must
have been quite perfunctory. Local Commu-
nists regard this sort of thing as legitimate
when the Soviet push does it, but if Aus-
tralia created a Cheka, and it hanged even a
pair of revolutionists, the row would be deaf-
ening.
The atmosphere is fairly thick with cable-
grams like this:—
It is understood that a Commonwealth loan is
impending of which the larger part will be for
Queensland and some of the other States, thereby
securing the most favorable terms on behalf of all
interested.
Apparently it is to be a big transaction,
various States taking a share and the Com-
monwealth getting a bit for itself just to
help out the interest bill. When the Federal
authority began to put a fatherly autograph
on the back of State bills it was thought
there would be a reduction in borrowing, but
the heavy parent raised 144 millions for six
prodigals in 1924-25 and 15| millions for
only five prodigals in 1925-26, the sixth one
having gone off on his own.
The insufficient and insufficiently paid
N.S.W. policeman is asking for a minimum
wage of £1 per day, and it looks moderate
enough. Being a capable policeman
is much more of a skilled occupation than
being a qualified bread-baker, and the latter’s
pay is quoted as varying from £6 7s. 6d. to
£6 17s. 6d. per week. Moreover, the bread
man isn't nearly so much exposed to weather,
Sunday work, assaults by the push, night
duty (where day-baking is the rule) and
sudden calls for extra work, and he can
strike when he pleases.
Various N.S.W. anti-Labor candidates
include in their programmes the abolition of
that brawling slum landlord, the Sydney
City Council, and its replacement by a
Board of Commissioners. It is expected that
the number of advocates of this plan of
reform will increase till something like
unanimity is reached. For whole-souled un-
popularity among decent-minded people the
ruling crowd at Sydney Town Hall occupies
a position which would be all its own but
for the other ruling crowd in Macquarie-
street.
When a tree 130 ft. long falls across a
road and the part lying across the road is
37ft. in circumference, as happened recently
at Healesville (Vic.), it is naturally bad for
traffic. At the same time it is a reminder
that Australia, though very ill-off for forests,
has traces of timber here and there. Om
of these is in the south-western part of
Westralia, but some of this is being per-
manently wiped out to make room for group
settlers. Considering that only 48 acres out
of every 10,000 of the big State’s area is
officially described as forest it almost seems
as if the settlers might have grouped some-
where else.
Argyle, Vic.’s ex-Chief Sec. and Health
Minister, spoke more like a politician than
a medical man when he told the dailies
after his return from his hospital-inspection
and medical-research tour in Yankeeland
that he would submit a report to the Vic.
Labor Government “if I am asked.” He
was tartly reminded that, having gone
abroad at the expense of the State, it was
up to him to report without being begged to
do so. When it was put like that Argyle
saw the light.
Hogan’s Labor team (Vic.) proposes to
fight ’bus and lorry competition with the rail-
ways by putting on a stiff license-fee, making
the owners of the motor vehicles contribute
more towards road upkeep, and insisting on
the taking out of insurance policies. These
are the sensible things they do in Maoriland,
but it doesn’t seem to help the railways
much.
An internal convulsion in Seamen’s Union
circles supplied the latest casus belli at New-
castle. The local mariners
drafted a rule that mariners ar-
riving by ship from other ports
must not be re-employed until
14 days had elapsed, wherefore
if a vessel was booked to leave
within that period it was to hire
a new local crew, and the
owners were to dispose of the
old one as best they could. Pre-
parations were promptly made
to victimise the public by an-
other hold-up. It would show a
more sporting spirit if the sea-
men or wharfies or others, when
they can’t agree among them-
selves, would leave the public
out of the shindy and settle the
matter peaceably, by violence,
It might be made a spectacular
open-air engagement like that of
the 60 Highlanders, 30 a side,
wdio hacked one another with
claymores on the North Inch of
Perth in the presence of King
Robert 111. and a distinguished
company. Popular sentiment,
however, would probably de-
mand less bloodshed than on
that stirring occasion. The loss
of 80 per cent, of the combat-
ants might be regarded as ex-
cessive.
The cow-farmers of N.S.W.
want the duty on butter raised
from 3d. to 6d. per lb., and the
Tasmanians allege that the
duties on hops (preference 6d.
per lb., intermediate Del. and
ordinary Is.) are hopelessly in-
adequate. The N.S.W. dairying
industry, it is declared, only
survives through the use of gen-
erally unpaid woman and child
labor; but for that and the
tariff the export trade would die
and the local market get its
supplies from Maoriland. The
people employed by the Corn-
stalk cow number 45,111, and
of these 14,707 are females and
a great number boys. All other
N.S.W. rural industries employ
only 1548 women and girls.
Almost everything that Aus-
tralia grows is protected, but
in view r of the cost of living some
varieties of produce appear to
be insufficiently protected.
The expulsion of N.S.W.
Premier Lang and his new
Ministers by Conroy’s A.L.P.
executive completes the circle.
Neither faction lias been left with anyone or
anything to expel, except hot-air, until the
general election. The people will then do
some expelling on their own account.
When the first session of Vic. Parliament
is fairly started the Labor Government will
propose an increase of £2OO a year for
Assembly members—£7oo instead of £o00 ;
As Ministers, the Speaker and the Chairman
of Committees will share m the nse, «■
aggregate amount required will be £lo, •
and patriots in the Uppah Chambah may
consider themselves slighted if they are no.
also lifted £lOO apiece. Another salaried
Minister at £l4OO or thereabouts is also
suggested. The probabilities are that another
£17.800 p.a. will be added to the cost of
the legislative machine.
THE LABOR BELDAME.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“The Labor aldermen in the Sydney City Council
who have to go up for re-election were anxious not
to take sides in the faction fight, but the Seale execu-
tive issued an ultimatum giving them a limited
period in which to submit their names. Thereupon
all except Alderman Holdsworth, M.L.A., signed the
Easter Conference pledge. Meanwhile the Municipal
Employees’ Union, which financed the campaign of
Labor aldermen at the last election, has officially
declared in favor of the Conroy executive.”
The Poet Asks :
“O what can ail thee, alderman,
Alone and sourly mutteringV
You hold our city hard and fast
On a Labor string.
“O what can ail thee, alderman,
So haggard and so woe-begone?
It rains free briefs; your costly car
Will be round anon.
“I see grim creases on your brow.
Yet you have rates ad lib. to blew
On pomp and splendor, rustling robes
And a coal-mine, too.”
The Alderman Answers :
“My seat and job seemed soft and safe,
Like goat in garden Fortune smiled;
My perks were fat; my heart was light;
But this makes me wild.
“They put a pistol at our head,
They shooed us from our neutral zone;
They gave us just a week to make
Their cause our own.
“Garden and Lang came chasing. Seale
We had and Mostyn all day long,
For sideways they would lean and sing
A snary song.
“They found us reasons far from sweet
Why we their bidding prompt should do.
They put the acid on us. Yes,
They did, too true.
“They made us twine with theirs our lot
By sheer duress and menace sore.
They would not heed our wild, sad sighs,
Those Bosses Four.
“In horrid dreams that mull my sleep
I see the chaps—Ah ! woe betide !
Who paid our ’lection bills last trip
On Mutch’s side.
“They call us ‘thugs,’ ‘dubs,’ ‘quinces,’ too.
Pale workers, rage-pale are they all,
Taunt us: ‘Jock Garden and his crowd
Have you in thrall!’
“I see their snarled lips in the gloom
With sneers and warnings gaping wide
At mark and brand that’s on my ear
And on my hide!
“And that is why I’m off my beer,
Alone and sourly muttering.
Two sets of bosses! Strike me pink!
It ain’t the thing.”
N.S.W.
T. THE R.


?
one
thl*
heard
Have yon
V,
m
y\
y<
if
The play was very bad—
very bad indeed, but the audience had suffered
it more or less patiently. In the third act a
terrific struggle took place between the
forlorn heroine and the heavy villain. A
lamp was overturned and the stage plunged
into darkness. An unearthly scream, a
moment of tense, dramatic silence, then,
from the villain, a cry “Good Heavens!
What have I done? ” A thick voice floated
from the ‘Gods’: “Strike a light, guv’nor,
and we’ll have a look ! ”
A good story and a
good cigarette are
worth repeating!
5t^TE
(XPRESS
20for
ARDATH TOBACCO CO: LTD: LONDON
SOCIETY
“and it's
printed with
WIMBLE'S INKS”
THE APPOINTMENT.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
From Hornsby down to Warrawee the rattle
of the train
Seemed to chuckle: “Now be patient, you
will see her soon again.
Past Turramurra slipping, the wheels made
quick protest:
“I)o not blame us, do not blame us, we are
travelling our best.”
By Pymble and Killara, in the moonlight’s
soft caress,
The whistle gaily shrieked aloud : “So many
stations less.”
And as we ran through Wollstonecraft the
chorus rang out clearer:
"So many, many stations less, so many miles
the nearer.”
Al: Milson’s Point the gangway told the
boat: “He cannot wait”;
I saw the waves scrum round to push for
fear I should be late;
And Cupid took the traffic of the Quay in
special charge,
For I sprinted safely through it like a
lunatic at large.
There a kindly tram was standing and
whizzed off as quick as fate
"Because,” the wire flicked out in Morse,
"we knew you couldn’t wait,”
While the taxis jazzed through Railway-
square and tooted through the press:
"So many stops the nearer and so many
miles the less.”
THE THING LACKING.
“What you want, Dot, is a nice sports car.”
“Yes—but I don’t, know any nice sport.”
In George-street West the headlights of the
giant ’buses twinkled
Like the eyes of old sundowners, sympa-
thetic, gay and wrinkled.
And one slowed down and signalled me:
“She’s brushing out her hair,
She’s only done it twice before and hopes
you’ll soon be there.”
And a double-decker, passing at the corner
of a block.
Rumbled gruffly but yet kindly: “She is look-
ing at the clock.”
But the cheeky motor-cycles roared: “We
wish you all success,
So many streets the nearer, so many miles
the less.”
We turned a corner to the right and slith-
ered half a mile,
Leaving frantic dogs and horses in the
brightest movie style,
Then round another corner—only one more
street to go—
And my electric chariot never seemed to
move so slow.
Then—then we were together, lip to lip and
heart to heart,
The joy for which train, boat and tram had
bravely done their part.
And through my brain went the refrain, and
heart-beats made the stress:
“So many days the nearer and so many
nights the less.”
n.s.w. R. G. Henderson.
"Pulex”: Just outside a clump of ti-tree
to the north of the kiosk at Point Ormond
(Vic.) is a solitary iron post that often
puzzles visitors. This is its history. On
April 17, 1840, the ship Glen Huntley arrived
in Port Phillip from Greenock with 50 sick
of typhus fever among her 157
immigrant passengers. A quar-
antine station was hurriedly
formed at Point Ormond (then
called Little Red Bluff). Tin-
crew and passengers were
landed; three of the latter died
and were buried on the spot.
The bodies were later transferred
to the St. Kilda Cemetery. The solitary iron
post, last of the four that originally stood
around the grave, and the suburb-name of
Glenhuntley are all that is left to recall this
bit of early history.
“Chancery-lane”: A Melbourne firm of
solicitors recently sued a company for a bill
of costs. The writ was issued and had to be
served at the registered office of the company.
A search disclosed that this was actually tin-
set of rooms occupied by the solicitors them-
selves, tin- registration having been effected
many years ago. To put everything in order
a clerk affixed the company’s nameplate to
the exterior of the office, went for a walk
round the block, and returned to serve tin-
writ by leaving it at the office of the firm
which had issued it.
“Geoloin”: Donald Mac, the railway guard,
was a bit of a dog-fancier, and when he
took over his train and found
in the dog-box a pedigreed
Scotch terrier consigned to
Central Queensland he eyed
his charge with genuine ap-
preciation. Several times, at
various stops, he brought
stationmasters and other
railwaymen into the van to
admire the “wee doggie.” Fi-
nally, at an isolated station,
where Donald’s train was
side-tracked for another to
pass, lie undid the dog’s col-
lar and took the animal out
on the platform to receive
its meed of admiration. Un-
fortunately, just as he was
glowingly expatiating on its
show points, the ungrateful
tyke twisted out of his arms
and scurried away into the
bush with the speed of a
rabbit. All idea of pursuit
was hopeless, for the train
was on the point of starting,
and it was a very subdued
Donald, with visions of the
loss of his job or a stiff fine,
that continued the journey.
However, luck was with him
—or Scotch sagacity. At the
very next station a friendly
mongrel sidled up to the
guard. Coaxing it to the
dog-box, he fastened the col-
lar on his new acquisition
and when handing the train
over to another guard at the
end of his section, begged his
successor: “Give an eye. to
yon dawg, he’s a prize yin.”
When I heard the story from
Donald, months afterwards,
I expressed my sympathy for
the dog-fancier at the other
end. “Oh, I dinnaw,” re-
plied Donald, “it might have
been waur; there was a wee
bit of Scotch aboot the dog-
gie anyhoo.”
‘.‘Gregor” : A Melbourne church paper has
been deploring the fact that, although a num-
ber of Armenian girls have been rescued
from Turkish harems with funds raised for
that purpose in Australia, the ladies mostly
refuse to stay rescued and take the first
opportunity of drifting back to the establish-
ment of some wicked Bey or dissolute Pasha.
One sophisticated Armenian damsel, it
appears, has been “rescued” from no less
than seven different harems, largely through
the efforts of a gentleman described as a
Christian Turk and equipped with funds
from Australia for that sort of work. The
co-operation suggests that the pair cut up
the money between them.
s * * *
“Selma” : I was waiting for the tram at a
Randwick intersection ; on the other end of
the seat was a somnolent old gentleman
whose whole appearance disturbingly sug-
gested that he was struggling back to
sobriety after an overdose of strong waters.
Suddenly he sat upright, stared wildly up
the street, clutched his stick and pointed
tremblingly. “Lady,” he addressed me piti-
fully, “can you see it, too?” A woman had
taken up her stand at the edge of the kerb,
over her shoulder hung the head and front
paws of an imitation leopard, and it was the
glinting glass eyes of the creature that had
NO FURTHER USE.
JUDGE: “And I sentence you to ten years’ imprisonment."
PRISONER: “Ten years? H’m! Do you know of anyone who wants to buy a pram, yer
Honor?”
thrown my neighbor into a panic. When
assured by me that the leopard was really
there he rose and hobbled off. “Strutb. ' he
grumbled as he went, “they didn’t older let
them things be worn.”
“Gooseflesh” : The N.S.W. Surfers Associa-
tion the other day declined with scorn a
proposal to adopt a universal “skirted
costume for surfers. This periodical con-
troversy about what is or isn’t decent attire
for bathers recalls that there are many
civilised peoples, to say nothing of those
who think they are, who dispense with all
covering when bathing in public. Before
the war, at any rate, mixed
bathing in the altogether was
common enough at German
watering-places on the Bal-
tic. Claire Sheridan, the
English sculptress who spent
some time in Russia doing
busts of Lenin, Trotsky and
other celebrities, tells in her
book of the mixed bathing
there in summer. Staying in
the country with a party of
intelligentsia, she was invited
to an afternoon bathing party
of this sort of all ages and
sexes, and “after the first em-
barrassment’' speedily be-
came accustomed to the prac-
tice. In Sweden and Norway-
mixed bathing in the buff has
been practised for ages, not
only in the open, but in the
batli-houses —and there are
other instances.
* * *
"R.F.K.F.”: Sea-bathing
is a comparatively modern
hobby. Before Dr. Russel
published his famous eulogy
of the habit in the mid-
eighteenth century, a splash
in the briny was regarded by
most Europeans as a risky
fad or a possible cure for
hydrophobia. Margate pio-
neered the hygienic practice,
and in 1770 was described
as a most polite and genteel
resort where “ladies of the
most refined delicacy” could
take a plunge. The process
of disrobing and climbing
into the awful costume of
the period was conducted in
a big, four-wheeled waggon
driven out into shallow water; over the
end of the vehicle was a wide awning. There
were no opportunities for sand-lizards, and
few bathers could or would swim. A pro-
fessional was in attendance to grip venture-
some ladies firmly by the arms and duck
them at a shilling a head. As late as 1825
a Paris journal had to teach its readers
these sea mysteries: “In sea-bathing you sit
or stand on the shore, taking care that some-
one holds you from behind by the hands, lest
a wave in receding carry you with it.” Tin-
connection between that nineteenth-century
tutelage and Sydney’s present beach problem
is the precaution with which the Parisian
homily closed. It solemnly enjoined the
wearing of a woollen shift guaranteed to
hide the form, and to make decent “a sea-
batli in presence of seamen and other curious
observers.”
* * * *
“Jane”: There are more ways than one
of making a living. She was a well-dressed,
middle-aged woman and she asked me to
show her the best furs. “I took a job like
yours, my dear, when the old man died,”
she said, “but I like to be independent. So
I took a little house at St. Kilda and got
a dozen or so of the boys to come round—
oh, quite proper, you know, and no liquor--
and they made a little card club of it.
“So you enjoyed the party?”
“It was ripping. The lighting dejects were wonderful.”
They’re nice boys and they never forget to
have a jack-pot for the house. What about
the children? Oh, they’re young, and sound
sieepers. How do I get the boys? Oh. that’s
easy. They soon hear about it. Yes, I think
I'll take that 40-guinea skunk.”


PANACEANIC.
[Foil The Bulletin.]
“In a recent divorce case the petitioner stated
that when she complained of the loneliness and in-
convenience of country life, her husband referred
her to the wonderful scenery.”
“And-1,” she said, “am bored to sobs,
Stuck here miles distant from the city;
All sorts of uncongenial jobs
Make me an object of self-pity ;
The only certain things are bills
Which come with regular persistence.’’
“How blue,” he said “those circling hills,
Enfolded in the haze of distance !”
“There’s not a wind,” she said, “that blows
That doesn’t round this place come howling.
How I endure it goodness knows—
It’s like some anguished spirit prowling.
This wretched house gets me enraged,
Its draughty bareness makes me shiver.”
He merely said, “I am engaged
In contemplation of the river.”
“And then,” she said, “the endless work,
And no one but myself to do it,
And though I’m sure I never shirk
I marvel how I struggle through it;
I’m up and down and round about,
I’m always carrying and fetching.”
“Mark how,” he said, “those trees stand out
With the stark beauty of an etching!”
N.S.W. TliOY.
“J. 8.”: There were half a
dozen of us in the club bar when
Snoopkins toddled in and
pranced up to one of the poker
machines. He put his hand in
his pocket and drew out two
pennies; then he dived his list
into several pockets almost sim-
ultaneously, it seemed, without
any further result, and re-
marked “Struth!” in an awed
voice to the world in general.
“What’s up?” asked someone.
“I’ve got only tuppence ; lend’s
the extra penny to have a go
at the machine.” Half a dozen
browns were forthcoming from
the group and Snoopkins had
them changed into two traybits.
With the first one he drew a
blank; with the second he got
away with four bobs’ worth of
chips, which he promptly con-
verted at the bar into choco-
lates and cigars. “So-long,” he
called to us, and ambled out as
cheerily as he had ambled in,
still with his decoy pennies to
the good.
* * *
“Opticus”: Improving sight
in the aged (B. 26/5/’27) is a
condition met with by most op-
tometrists ; too often it is
merely a danger-signal. In the
last few years I have been con-
sulted by no less than eight
elderly people who have experi-
enced a sudden and delightful
return of the “sight of youth.”
The pleasant condition, however,
seldom lasts more than 18
months; then cataracts growing
over the lens of the eye render
vision impossible. Strange
though it may seem, the inci-
pient cataract is responsible for
the temporary improvement in
near vision. The cataract forms
<sn the crystalline lens of the
eye, which lies directly behind
the iris. When an extremely
aged person finds a gradual im-
provement in near vision the
first stages of cataract may be
suspected; the duration of the
period of improved near-sight
depends on the length of time
taken by the growth to mature.
The improvement occurs only
when the cataract is peripheral.
i.e.. growing from the edge and
leaving the centre of the lens
clear. The effect of this form
of growth in sharpening the
image is much the same as a
diaphragm over a camera lens.
* * si:
“Mulgo”: That mysterious
“fishing” boat that has been
causing a bit of a stir in our
waters sets me think-
ing. When I was wandering
about the eastern part of
Queensland it was not unusual
to meet fresh-looking Chinamen
and Japs who could not speak
English, and it was common
tails that they had been landed
from supposed fishing - boats,
gradually to be passed south
after being tutored by resident
aliens. Opium was landed in
the same way, and distributed
over the State by Chow travel-
lers. The drug was always in
evidence in Chow quarters, and
in scalping-camps where blacks
were employed, even in far west-
ern parts. It is on those roads
that the Chow swaggy is met.
He carries his bundles dangling
from the ends of a flat bamboo,
and is ostensibly looking for a
job. Rut there was always a strong suspicion
that the ambler was carrying opium. Some-
times there were two together. Of most of
the pairs I met, one never spoke except to
his cobber. When I spoke to him the other
answered. According to local report, the
untalkative bloke would be dropped at some
garden, where he would work for little or
nothing more than his keep and tutelage. The
old warrior of the road got paid for taking
him out and “placing” him.
* * * *
“Lingua Franca”: Neither Esperanto nor
any other “artificial” language has yet suc-
ceed'd in attaining universal recognition;
but a Briton, one Morgan Finlay, has come
along with a radio-transmission scheme which
solves the language difficulty as far as public
addresses are concerned. It was recently
tried with success at the Geneva Inter-
national Labor Conference, which spoke half
the languages on earth. The translators of
a speech construe in a whisper into a special
microphone. There can bn any number of
interpreters, and the amplified words of each
can be heard in special sound-proof ear-
pieces, by listeners of all nationalities in
their own. languages, as fast as they are
spoken. It is a big improvement on the old,
long-drawn-out translation methods of previ-
ous Eeague of Nations meetings. Still, one
wonders how it would work in the case of
such speakers as, say, Jimmy West, M.H.K.
It would be worth while travelling all the
way to Geneva to watch a host of whispering
interpreters translating Jimmy’s periods into
Yugo-Slavonic, Mandarin Chinese and the
lingo of the Hejaz Arabs.
* * * *
“Lao-dah”: A North Melbourne green-
grocer went to the markets at two o’clock the
other morning and when he returned at day-
light he found his house had been distributed
over his neighbors’ fences. The police found
evidence that gelignite had been thoroughly
planted all over the premises, as well as
rags soaked in kerosene. Dynamite outrages
are usually associated with politics of a
Central European nature, but the green-
grocer's only political associations were in
the long ago, when he was a clerk in the
Prime Minister’s department and decoded con-
fidential messages.
* * * *
“Ma Tante”: A quaint bit of modern his-
tory was revealed in London recently at a
Itoyal Academy exhibition. Some wonderful
Flemish tapestries were on view which no
one could identify, and since these things
BETWEEN TWO DEVILS.
“N.S.W. Labor politicians in both the Parliamentary and the Municipal arenas are being
forced to decide whether they adhere to the Lang or the Mutch faction.”
BOTH BOATMEN: “Come on, you; you’ve got to get in one boat or the other.”
POLITICIAN (to another): “I don’t half like it, Bill. And the weather’s threatening.”
are literally worth their weight in gold and
weigh heavily at that, there was much
speculation whence they came The explana
tion was a somewhat sordid one. They had
belonged to the Austrian Government which
sought to sell them in the dead-broke, post-
war days. There was such a fuss, however
that Britain, with France and Italy agreed
to take them in pawn, and advance the
money asked. Britain’s share of the loan
was two million pounds, and if she charges
th ® English pawnbroker’s rate of 4d. in the
quid per month should be drawing a good
interest cheque. Still, there must liave been
times when Austria wondered whether any
of her three uncles were as sound as her
security held by them,
* * * *
“Troy”: Maoriland is to have a unique
garden town far from any of her cities
and peopled by a class of migrants who will
be in no danger of bankruptcy or privation,
Retired British civil servants will form the
community which a syndicate proposes to
establish on the Iverikeri River, in the north
of Auckland province. An area of 10,000
acres has been acquired and will be divided
into small holdings, the easy payments on
which each settler will have his pension of
not less than £250 per year to meet. The
Dominion director of town-planning will
supervise the layout of the new town, where
the newcomers will raise early vegetables,
citrus fruits and outdoor grapes. Some of
the lots are already being planted with fruit
and shelter trees, though the owners have
not yet arrived.
❖
“Chloe” on a memorable pioneer:—
The month of June marks an epoch for the Darling
Downs, Queensland. A century ago Allan Cunning-
ham passed for the first time through the Gap which
bears his name, and established a route bewteen the
Downs and the penal settlement at Moreton Bay.
Cunningham had seen the Gap in the Mountains two
years earlier, but on that occasion had journeyed
from Teiiterfield blazing a trail through virgin
country. This was the trail followed by Patrick
Leslie, the first settler of the Downs when he took
up the valley of the Condamine in 1811, acting on
information supplied by his friend Cunningham.
Only those who have seen the frowning precipices of
Mt. Mitchell and Mt. Cordeaux, between which the
Gap is cut, can realise the stupendous difficulties
which Cunningham faced. A cairn is to be erected
at the top of the Gap by the Geographical Society;
last year the residents of Glengallan Shire made a
road through the Government reserve and the (Jap,
following the original trail blazed by Cunningham.
The way had to be cut through dense forest, magni-
ficent cedar, pine, sycamore and euealypt of giant
growth, hoary with age and overhung with liana, tree
fern and other parasitic growths. The roadmakers
worked with such energy that after the third day
they were able to drive the three miles through the
reserve to the top of the Gap, and there toast the
memory of its discoverer. The road is the best
tribute to his memory, for he planned a great
highway to link up Melbourne, Sydney and Brisbane,
each of which he featured as a great city of the
future. May his shade be glad, for he had little
enough recompense in his lifetime!
* * * *
“Junius”: The mail-car in which we had
crossed the Victorian Alps slowed down and
dropped a bag of tucker into a rough mail-
box. Somebody expressed surprise that there
should be any settlers in such an out-of-the-
way spot and the driver grinned. “That’s
for the bank clerk from .” Seeing our
puzzled look, he went cii: “He always spends
his holidays up here rabbiting. Last annual
leave he cleared 40 quid, and lie says he’s
doing better this year. Saving up to get
married.”
“T.J.N.”: “Nayara” (B. 26/5/’27) may
rest assured that the emergency buttons in
N.S.W. trains are of use. They are invari-
ably tested before the train leaves its start-
ing-point. The case cited by him may have
occurred on a train where there were
“Yankee” cars, which are not provided with
emergency communication between the car-
riage and the brake-van. Otherwise the
guard would most certainly have stopped
the train.
“Clerk”: Winter is no time for business
men to study Victoria’s great natural re-
sources, so the indefatigable Clapp is send-
ing his Reso train, with space for 60
passengers at £BO a head, into the centre of
Australia in August, when the weather there
is delicious. The trip will take 18 days and
the same number of motor-cars will carry the
party from Oodnadatta in pursuit of the
desert. If the thing isn’t found by the time
the tourists reach Central Mount Stuart,
450 miles north of the railhead, they will
regretfully return, feeling they have been
cheated.
* * * *
“Chancery Lane”: Interviewing a client
regarding the death of an old maiden aunt of
his, I inquired what she died of. “Sterile
decay,” was the reply.
“Pick” : An unexplained sense
apparently makes stone-deaf per-
sons aware of certain sounds. I
once knew a lady who from in-
fancy had been deaf and dumb.
Ordinary sounds held nothing for
her, but if a baby started cry-
ing she would quickly become
cognisant of it. Also she would
dance correctly to any music,
and immediately alter her step
if the musician, to test her,
changed his tune. My deaf bush-
mate Harry, too, knew no sound
except that of singing bellbirds.
Immediately their tinkling com-
menced in the trees overhead he
would display a lively interest
in looking for them. And deaf
Clarry at Jugiong (N.S.W.)
seemed to be attracted only by
the distant reverberations caused
by the knocking of cart-wheels.
By the sound lie could find a
carter anywhere in the bush,
although lie could never discover
by the bells the whereabouts of
our horses.
* * *
“Dr. Nil” : I have my doubts
whether “Cronulla” (N.S.W.)
is a corruption either of the
name of “John Connell, who
owned land there,” or of “Kur-
ranulla” (B. 2/6/’27). In the
year 1579 my uncle owned a
good bit of the land and fore-
shore at Kogarah, and I did a
lot of boating and shooting on
Botany Bay. At that time the
strip of land near the Heads of
the bay was called Cullanulla,
and the beach facing the ocean,
considered dangerous for all but
first-class swimmers, was well
known as Cullanulla Beach. The
land to the southward of it we
knew as Holt’s Bush; round the
various shores of the bay were
also “Carrol’s Bush,” “Souter's
Bush” and so on. I have no
recollection of “Connell’s Bush,”
and my own opinion has always
been that “Cronulla” is merely
a white-pfeller coruption of the
native Cullanulla, just as “Coo-
nabarabran” is of the Coolapa-
rapean.
* *
“Owing to the death of an
uncle in South Africa, Mr.
David White, of Stanmore, has
inherited £256,000 in cash and
about £2,000,000 in property,”
says the daily press. The Bul-
letin’s opinion is that David
should be ashamed of himself
and his chronicle of small beer.
No orthodox Australian falls
heir to less than £20,000,000,
and much larger sums are com-
mon.
DELIRIUM.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
In my bare room I lie
And on each painted wall
A host of leering imps
Hold wicked carnival.
Damocles deftly swings
His sword above my head
While sinuous serpents trace
The patterns of the spread.
The brass rail at my feet
Has faces all a-grin—
A martyr on the rack.
A Chinese mandarin,
A giant negro’s head,
An evil sight to see;
And there’s a bony hand
That’s clutching out for me.
I’ve fallen hv the way
Out in the desert west,
Wings beat about my head.
Grim claws are at my breast.
Then quick the scene is changed,
There comes an eager throng
That stand with mouths a-gape
To listen to my song.
They all too quickly pass,
Like faces in a dream;
An engine rushes on,
I’m scalded by the steam:
Wheels crush me, bone by bone,
Great lights above me soar,
My scream of pain and fear
Is smothered by the roar.
Within four walls I lie;
No leering faces grin.
Gone are the negro’s head,
The Chinese mandarin:
Damocles’ sword is sheathed,
And on my garden wall
A flock of sparrows chirp
In joyous festival.
.n.s.w.
JIM GRAHAME.


lrom the
smallest
(Q
?/SS jJ
Os.
ft*
_
jfiii
Every type of Exide Battery is designed expressly to suit
the particular car for which it is made.
An Exide Battery on your car will dispel the discomforts
of winter motoring.
Easy starting and sustained, brilliant lighting are essential
to your comfort and safety.
Give your starter the best chance of doing its job by
fitting an Exide Battery.
THE TftNft-T.IFE BATTERY
-'to the
1 arge s "t
é
ê
ylustralian Distributors:
NEW SOUTH WALES: Gibson, Battle & Co., Ltd., Hunt
Street, off Wentworth Avenue, Sydne>.
QUEENSLAND:’ “Exide” Battery Service (Q.), Ltd.,
472-474 Queen Street, Brisbane.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA: Unbehaun & Johnstone, Ltd., Rosina
Street, Adelaide.
WEST AUSTRALIA: Unbehaun & Johnstone (W.A.), Ltd.,
Radio House, 383-387 Murray Street, Perth.
VICTORIA: A. P* Sutherland, Queen’s Bridge (2 Maffra Street), South Melbourne.
New Zealand Distributors:
Hope, Gibbons, Ltd., Wellington, Auckland and Christchurch.


The Australian Provincial Assurance Association Limited
HEAD OFFICE: 77 KING STREET, SYDNEY.
Directors: Messrs. EDMUND S. W. PAUL (Chairman), ALEX. KING, Dr. E. MORRIS HUMPHERY, Senator J. D. MILLEN, and WM. NORTHAM.
Total Assets exceed. . . . . . £1,724,000
BRANCHES: Melbourne, Brisbane, Adelaide, Perth, Hobart. NEW ZEALAND: Wellington, Auckland, Christchurch, Dunedin.
SOME REASONS WHY YOU SHOULD INSURE WITH THE A.P.A.:
(1) Because in the event of total disablement for life all future premiums
will be paid by the Association and no deduction made from policy or
bonuses.
(2) Hospital Benefits are given with every Life Policy applicable to public
and private hospitals, varying in amount according to the sum assured
and no deduction made from policy or bonuses.
(3) In the event of loss of eye or limb through accident, a quarter of the
sum assured will be paid forthwith, and the premium reduced propor-
tionately.
(4) PERSONAL ACCIDENT and Combined Benefit Policies provide for
almost every contingency.
NO EXTRA PREMIUM IS CHARGED FOR THESE BENEFITS:
Probate, Children’s Education and Finance Policies specialised.
Applications for Agencies invited from men of integrity.
GKO. PEACOCK, F.C.1.5., Secretary.
T. W. RAPT.EY, General Manager.
"Bad Australian” : A young friend of mine
recently took his new-made bride home to
his little nest in one of the outer suburbs,
where he occupies his spare time in raising
ehooks. The other day, just after he had
departed for the city, a deadbeat called and
asked for some tucker; there being no meat
in the place the kind-hearted little house-
wife collected three or four eggs, wrapped
them’ up with a liberal helping of bread
and butter and handed the lot to Weary.
It wasn’t till that r.ight she learned that
hubby had collected all the new-laids and
that the deadbeat had departed with a small
setting of porcelain imitations used to encou-
LOVE CAN GO NO FARTHER.
MABEI: “Don’t they look sweet! They’re still very much in love with each other,
ain’t they?”
MYRTLE : “Rather! When she’s away she writes to him daily whether she needs money
or not.”
rage the hens at tlicir work. A sketch of the
beneficiary boiling the billy for his next meal
is required to round off the story properly,
but unfortunately this isn’t available.
“It. Red R.”: Bush mailmen are notori-
ously easy-going, but the one who keeps us
in touch with the outside world is in a class
of his own. Some months ago he developed
an _ amazing habit of “carrying over” our
mail, which meant that delivery was delayed
for a week at least. We told the delinquent
that several important letters had been thus
held up and threatened to report him. A
week later, some hours after the mailman’s
departure, we were surprised to see him
returning in our direction. He handed us
two opened letters, and explained that they
had been discovered on the floor of his buck
board when sorting out the mail of a neigh-
bor. With the threat of being reported hang-
ing over liis head on the one hand, and the
certainty of being behind schedule time on
the other, he was in a dilemma, so he hit
on the bright notion of opening the letters
and deciding for himself whether they were
important. Reckoning that they were he had
returned with them.
"Toongooroo”: The question of whether
and when women should be carried on British
warships has been exercising the Admiralty
for over a century. Mat Flinders proposed
to bring his wife with him to Australia on
his second voyage; but his project was viewed
with intense disfavor in Whitehall —the
Nelson-Hamilton liaison was blossoming
ominously at the time —and he was peremp-
torily ordered to desist from his uxorious
plans. He had the good sense to do so.
though it meant severance from his faithful
Ann for a longer period than either of them
guessed. Flinders contented himself with a
protest, in the course of which he wrote:
“I should have thought that their Lordships
would have shown the same indulgence to
me as to Lieutenant Kent, of the Buffalo,
and many others.”
“Ken McG.” : Touching this street nomen-
clature. Manduramah. a prosperous village
near . Carcoar (N.S.W.), has 13 surveyed
streets. The eight running parallel to the
railway line are named Guava, Apple, Medlar.
Olive, Loquat, Peach, Cherry. Pomegranate.
Those running at right angles arc Iron.
Copper, Silver, Gold, Steel. When additional
streets are surveyed and the suburbs pro-
vided for, the animal world will no doubt
come into its own.
“P.R.” : Re street nomenclature. Canter-
bury (N.S.W.), after fastening some dozens
of girls’ names, from Ada to Yiolet, on its
thoroughfares, took a literary turn and con-
ferred similar honors on Browning, Burns,
Byron, Campbell, Cowper, Dryden, Homer,
Milton, Moore, Sliakspeare, Shelley and Ten-
nyson. Nor has it left ex-Governors of the
State and Commonwealth out in the cold;
Phillip, King, Macquarie, Fitzroy, Belmore,
Robinson, Loftus, Carrington, Hampden,
Beauchamp, liawson, Denman, Dudley,
Hopctoun, Ferguson and Northcote have all
been utilised for municipal christening pur-
poses.
“A.8.W.”: This is the time of year in
Melbourne when unemployed deputations are
wont to assert that numerous workless per-
sons may be found sleeping out in the city
parks and on the Yarra's frosty banks. To
test the statement Salvation Army Commis-
sioner Whatmore organised a search, and a
party of Salvo officers spent three entire
nights in an assiduous quest for the dossers-
out. They found two. One was an incor-
rigible open-air fanatic and the other was an
honest shellback sleeping off a bender, who
scorned charitable assistance. Not a bad
record this for a city with the population of
Melbourne.
THE {MORE OR LESS) INSEPARABLES.
“You and your husband still devoted to each other?”
“Oh, sure! Why, we never go out for an evening together but roe kiss each other
good-night before we start.”
“Anthony Gloster” : The Bung who adver-
tised his hotel by humorously disparaging
his wares (B. 2/6/’27) had a mate in a
fruit-hawker, once a well-known feature seen
on the Warwick (Q.) platform. Ilis raucous
cry of “Oranges—all skin and no juice”
greeted every train.
“Harry J.”: The most grimly humorous
remark I heard during the war came from
a. stretcher-bearer. I was wounded and
sheltering in a hole in a
railway embankment near
Warlencourt when, in the
flash of a German flare.
I saw two bearers pause
quite close to me. They
halted for a moment as
the cry of “Stretcher-
bearers!” came from a
spot about a hundred
yards away. “That’s the
poor devil with a broken
leg,” one of them said
meditatively. “Well, he’ll
have to wait,” he added
after a short silence. “We
fixed him up pretty com-
fortable last trip and he’s
in a fairly safe possie.
Come on, we’ll go and get
that big bloke who has
both his legs broken.”
“Yes,” his mate assented
drily, “the big bloke wins
by the fracture of a second.” And off they
started across the muddy Jiat.
‘“Bihai” : No doubt there are persons im-
mune to malaria (B. 2/6/’27), but in 20
years’ sojourning in various malarial parts I
have met only one. He was an old German
and had a pet theory that quinine was
neither a cure nor a prophylactic but actually
brought malaria on, in support of which
rank heresy he would recount how in his
youth his ship lay in a West African river
where he and his shipmates took no quinine
and had no malaria, whilst the crews of
British ships, who were regularly dosed, were
rotten with it. Working in Panama, when
De Lesseps was making his abortive effort
to put a canal through, he never took quin-
ine, whilst those who did died like flies. I
have seen him sitting with his pants rolled
up to the knees, and mosquitoes clustered
thick on his legs, blissfully unconscious that
he was being bitten, though amongst the
feeders were a good percentage of anopheles.
His case was certainly phenomenal; but one
may often see people having frequent attacks
of malaria while others living next door
are apparently unaffected. It is a fact well
known to medical science that malarial para-
sites will often lie dormant in the blood until
some cause, such as removal to another dis-
trict, great physical or mental stress, excites
them to activity.
“Swiss”: I submit myself as a case of
proved practical immunity to malaria (B.
2/6/’27) or any other kind of fever. In '7O
I was, as a young public officer, sent to
Townsville (Q.). The malarial visitation
of the following year was particularly malig-
nant. affecting about 00 per cent, of the
population. I was down for one week, but
I have never had a touch of it since, although
I put in about 40 years in such places as
lluglienden, Normanton, .Croydon, Thursday
Island, the Etheridge and the like. I am
over 70 now.
* * *
“Black Tracker”: On a property that re-
cently changed hands in South Australia is a
neatly-fenced, well-cared-for grave. Unlike
most tombs it is a reproductive asset, return-
ing £5 a year for its upkeep. In the
'seventies, when the estate was a large holding
owned by a family in England, the only son
was killed by being thrown from his horse
and was laid to rest here. When the property
was subdivided the grave was left on one
corner of the block, with the proviso that
five pounds a year would be paid to the pur-
chaser agreeing to act as caretaker. It has
provided pin-money for several members of
one family in turn.
* * *
“The Mailman” : The paragraph by “Ada-
mascus” about an early-day Queensland
bushranger, “The Wild Scotchman” (B
2G/5/’27), calls for some correction. I
didn’t capture him single-handed, but I am
the only survivor of a party of five which go!
him. The Brisbane clergyman whose influence
secured the prisoner’s release was the Rev.
B. R. Wilson, not Mr, Patterson. A daugh-
ter of Mr. Wilson married Mr. Patterson, a
bank manager; one of her sons married a
daughter of the mailman: their son is now
the possessor of the desk carved by the bush-
ranger. Thus the gift made by “The Wild
Scotchman” in token of his gratitude to the
man who got him out of prison has passed,
by the irony of fate, into the possession of
the grandson of the man who got him into
prison.
“Phil P.”: For candor tempered with
restraint it would be hard to beat this
epitaph on a tombstone in the C. of E. ceme-
tery at Buckland (Tas.) :
Here lies the grief of a fond mother
And the blasted expectation of an indulgent father.
I have always wondered what the departed
did to merit this summing-up.
THE FELLOW WITH A SMILE.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The world is not so bloomy as the pessimists
declare;
It isn't sad and sodden, nor lias seaweed in
its hair.
The grave is not the goal, by gosh, not on
your misspent life,
And man has kinder thoughts in him than
bickering and strife.
I speak the living truth, I know, I speak it
without guile—
I get it every day I meet the fellow with a
smile.
When westerlies cut like a blade and sun-
shine’s locked away ;
When petty troubles seem to mount, and near
a ton to weigh;
When dragging fretfulness around becomes a
sort of task.
I know that I am seeing things as darkly
through a mask.
’Tis then I slip my anchor line and steam a
half a mile,
Until I meet a cheerful soul, a fellow with a
smile.
The pessimist's afflicted with a film across his
eyes.
Each day he spends lamenting and each night
in tearful sighs.
Whene'er his birthday comes around he
groans like billy-oh :
“Another year I’m nearer death and where
the sinners go!”
But even he would brighten up and empty
out his bile
If he would lift his brow and greet the fel-
low with a smile.
Beyond the towering hills and crags are
plains and valleys green,
And summer winds breathe ever there, in
mankind’s true demesne.
Uplift your heart, my brother, then, and
stride the road with me,
With courage pulsing through our veins to
all eternity.
Courageously we’ll climb the hill, we’ll do
the job in style.
Just like the fellow who went by—the fellow
with a smile.
N.S.W.
JOHN BARR.


a
K:;-'
m
m
m
m
A
1
m
H AR_D‘Y'S
SPA HIC LI AT G


IT PAYS TO INVEST IN
PIONEER
m.
'""4
LEATHER
BELTING
THE LEADER SINCE 1858.
This famous power transmitter has maintained the'leading position for nearly 70 years.
Alade and Guaranteed by
. C. LUDOWICI (El SON, LIMITED
Pioneer House, 117 York Street, SYDNEY,
INTERSTATE and NEW ZEALAND AGENTS:
VICTOKIA: Benson Bros., ILdd., 107-109
Queen’s Bridge Street, Melbourne.
qOEKXSLANI): Hoey, Fry, Etd.,
Edward Street. Brisbane;
Burns, Pfaiip & Co., L,td„ Townsville
SOUTH AUSTIIAEIA: John Mclveil and
Sons, Timpson Street, Port Adelaide
\\ EST AUSTRALIA: Horace SuiiimerH,
Howard Street. Perth.
TASMANIA: Charles Davis. Ltd.,
Elizabeth Street, Hobart.
NEW ZEALAND: Friar, Richards <&
Upton, Auckland. Blackburn, Smith
& Co., Christchurctt.
NOBEL-GLASGOW EXPLOSIVES.
The Standard of Quality throughout the Empire.
Monobel
Samsonite
Gelatine Dynamite
Gelignite
Blasting Gelatine
Dynamite
Safety Fuse
Detonators
Cartridges
Hadfields
(AUSTRALIA) LIMITED
The largest and best-equipped Crushing Machinery Works in Australia-
JAW CRUSHERS—DISC CRUSHERS—GYRATORY CRUSHERS.
PORTABLE CRUSHING PLANTS COMPLETE QUARRY PLANTS.
Hadfields’ Manganese Steel Wearing Parts for all makes of Crushers.
Works and 1 Alexandria, Sydney, N.S.W.
Foundries J Bassendean, Perth, W.A.
Branch ( 422 Collins Street, Melbourne, Vic.
Office S T. & G. Building, Brisbane, Q.
The WILDCAT
COLUMN
National Bank op Australasia, from
the time it amalgamated with the Colonial
Bank :
Dividends Writ- To
Mar., Profits. (8 p.c.), ten Off. Reserves. Reserves.
1919* £145,099 £78,789 £lO,OOO £56,310 £1,130,234
1920.. 299,781 160,000 20,000 119,781 1,250,015
(9i p.c.)
1921.. 336,610 190,000 20,000 126,610 1.376.625
Bank of Queensland purchased.
Premiums on new shares.. 163,164 1,539,789
(10 p.c.)
1922.. 350,168 203,050 25,000 122,118 1,661,907
Premiums on new shares.. 14,739 1,676,646
1923.. 442,178 272,500 40,000 129,678 1,806,324
Premiums on new shares.. 191,823 1,998,147
1924.. 498,168 307,973 40,000 150,195 2,148,342
Premiums on new shares. . 167,529 2,315,871
1925.. 538,833 400,000 40,000 98,833 2,414,704
1926.. 568,254 400,000 50,000 118,251 2,532,958
1927.. 581,645 400,000 70,000 111,645 2,644,603
*Six months.
Interest lately has centred in the new share-
issue which, although it carries a solid pre-
mium, is nevertheless a nice sweetener. When
nil the new money is in it will bring capital
to £5,000,000, and £400.000 will be a fine
addition to reserves, which by next balance
should be comfortably in excess of £3,000,000.
Judged by the recent margins of profit, there
is no doubting the bank’s capacity to earn
sufficient to maintain the 10 p.c. div. More
than enough has been earned during the past
three years to pay it on the increased capital,
and the £1,400,000 should earn another
£BO,OOO at least. Increased duties now
guarantee to capital that, in the initiation
of new industries, it will be given reason-
able protection. No break is apparent in
the firm market for wool, and prosperity
is general, the meat-export trade and copper
and gold mining still being the notable ex-
ceptions. There is, of course, the artificial
prosperity that is based on the unbridled
expenditure of loan money by practically
every State Government, and what danger
there is on the horizon lurks there.
That the chief banks of the Commonw T ealth
have found it advisable or necessary to obtain
more capital is, in the main, a healthy sign.
There has been an insistent demand for
accommodation as a result of the growth in
manufacture and trading. As a result
advances show increases, the movement in
the case of the energetic National being very
substantial. To the growth of “secondary”
industries must be added another influence
behind the appeals for additional capital—
the delay in repayment of advances in the
wheat-growing areas of the Commonwealth.
Many farmers are still holding for a rise.
Also heavier demands have come from pas-
toralists in the drought belt in Queensland
who were forced into heavy expense, in some
cases to save their stock, in others to stock
up anew. This general expansion, more
particularly of the secondary industries, is
increasing noticeably the tempo of our
national growth. The National, despite
recent amalgamations, still remains amongst
the leading banks of Australasia; when the
new capital is in only the Wales and the
New Zealand will rank ahead of it. Indeed,
it was the National which gave a lead to
the recent amalgamations : in 1918 it absorbed
the Colonial of Victoria; a few years later
it took over the Bank of Queensland, itself
an amalgamation of the Bank of North
Queensland and the Royal of Queensland.
Progress of later years has been very sturdy :
Gross
Capital. Reserves. Profits. Expenses.
1921.. £2,000,000 £1,376,625 £862,102 £525,491
1922.. 2,661,125 1,661,907 953,758 603,590
1923.. 2,725,000 1,806,324 1,114,392 672,214
1924.. 3,225,000 2,148,342 1,199,282 701,113
1925.. 4,000,000 2,414,704 1,321.419 782,587
1926.. 4,000,000 2,532,958 1,370,195 801.940
1927.. 4,000,000 2,644,603 1,444,329 862,684
At March 31 capital consisted of 150,000
fully-paid £lO shares and 500,000 £8 shares
paid to £5. The new issue will add 50,000
to the former and 100,000 to the latter.
In the Riverina there has been a steady
turning from wool-growing to wheat-farming,
and the National decided that its representa-
tion in that territory should be increased,
partly because of the gradual movement north
of Victorian farmer-clients. That movement
was a factor in the expansion of lendings,
which is one of the outstanding features of
the next comparison :
1920. 1926. 1927.
Notes . . . . £49,809 £48,033 £48,013
Bills, etc. . . 962,908 1,640,773 1,764,392
Free deposits . . 11,926,167 13,897,590 13,709,560
Fixed deposits . . 11,472,035 18,386,662 20,543,157
Liquid assets .. 13,194,160 14,619,502 11,573,470
Advances . . 13,903,139 25,001,394 30,158,054
Premises, etc. . . 643,636 1,085,122 1,178,202
The net gain in deposits was £1,965,465, and
—a favorable feature—the whole of the in-
crease—and more—was in fixed deposits.
Advances moved up £5,156,660. Liquids
were lighter and well below the proportion
usually maintained. The new money will
right that position. The National has
usually erred the other way: the pro-
'portion in the previous year, for instance,
was 43 p.c. and in 1925 47.2 p.c. The bank
is in an excellent position to attract addi-
tional deposits, for at March 31 it held only
£5 Bs. 6d. of outside money for each £1 of
its own, and the amount which will come
in from the present issue will, of course,
make that position even stronger.
It may be taken as certain that, in addi-
tion to the strong visible position, every
spot which was considered to hold possibili-
ties of weakness has been strengthened and
every advantage taken of the remarkable
prosperity of recent years. Indeed, Aus-
tralian banks have a reputation, even in
English banking circles, with their reputation
for conservatism, for playing ultra-safely.
It is obvious that there must be a break
in Australia’s long run of golden years;
it would not need anything remarkable to
bring about conditions which would make
tlie loan-mongering Governments of Aus-
tralia slow down. When the testing time
comes we shall see how wise the great banks
were to build up their own capital resources
instead of scouring the cheap-money markets
of the world for deposits. That indeed is
the great difference between this period and
the hectic boom-years of the late ’eighties
and early ’nineties.
Morris, Hedstrom, Ltd., plantation-
owners and merchants, of Fiji:—
r~ Dividends
Prefs. To Re- Re-
Mar., Profit. (6 p.e.) Ordinaries. serves, serves.
£ £ £ £ £
1921.. 79.177 7,015 10 p.c. = 48,°542 23,620 155,923
Loss.
1922.. 90,074 12,231 Nil - 53,623
Loss on realisation of asset, £32,400 21,223
Profit.
1923.. 26,856 12,231 Nil 14,625 35,848
1924.. 50,092 12,373 4 p.c. = 20,201 17,518 53,366
1925.. 59,233 12,514 5 „ „ 25,252 21,467 74,833
1926.. 66,670 12,598 6 ~ „ 30,302 23,770 98,603
Reserve taken in, £15,000.. .. .. 113,603
1927.. 70,328 12,898 7 p.c. = 35,442 21,988 135,591
Although capital increased, the new shares
were not issued until just before the close of
the accounts; 15,370 ordinaries and 4630
prefs. were handed out as part payment for
the business of Smyth and Carruthers, of
Apia (Samoa). But the nice increase in net
earnings did not move the board to do any-
thing rash; the div. was again lifted by only
1 p.e., so that reserves benefited substan-
tially. In this the directors were wise; the
experiences of 1922 showed how quickly a
seemingly fat accumulation can waste away.
Gross profit was a shade less at £153,621.
and it was considered necessary to write off
for depreciation, on this occasion, only £9196,
as against £15,753 in the previous year ; and
£3642 “sundry losses,” as against £10,383.
Balance-sheet movements were in the right
direction :
1922. 1926. 1927.
Overdrafts .. ..£145,763 £86,113 £86,664
Mortgages . . . . 21,675 5,600 5,600
Deposits.. .. .. 35,985 27,221 25,597
Other liabilities .. 66,088 57,065 47,404
Plantations . . . . 73,269 75,223 75,394
Land, buildings, plant, etc. 233,823 229,280 224,942
Stocks, etc 225,397 306,50.3 288.475
Investments and cash.. 248,212 191,831 202,883
Capital .va 1 u e of
branches, etc. . . 212,461 130,466 191,132
Book debts, etc. .. 144,518 91,063 84,395
Deposits were lighter, and almost £20.000
was clipped off sundry creditors. But liabili-
ties still are heavy. Following the slump in
1921-22 the board announced its intention of
putting that part of its house in order before
adopting a liberal attitude towards share-
holders. In 1922 total outside debt was
£269,511; last year the total was £165,265.
so that the position is being changed at a
satisfactory rate. To meet the floating debt
there was, at March 31, more than half a
million more or less liquid—-chiefly stocks—
so from that angle there is nothing to trouble
about.
The almost uninterrupted fall in the price
of copra seriously affected last year’s profits.
But this and other unfavorable factors were
offset, as the figures sliow\ The brightness
in the outlook is indicated by the intimation
that additional accommodation is necessary
and that a new concrete building adjoining
the present premises is to be erected. At
the previous balance a special reserve
(£15,000) against doubtful debts appeared.
This has been transferred to general reserves,
“adequate provision having been made for
this contingency,” and is now included in the
introductory table. The management is well
qualified to handle the problems which present
themselves, and although capital is nearing
three-quarters of a million, the board lias
shown its capacity in the past to make its
funds earn their living with something to
spare. Shares have improved and latest
quotes are b. 20s. 3d., s. 21s.
The Commonwealth Wool and Produce
Co., Ltd. (Sydney), for 27 years known as
the Co-operative, which had to change its
name because of the N.S.W. Co-operation,
Community Settlement and Credit Act,
1924: —
Bonus Added
to to Re- Re-
Mar., Profits. Dividends. Clients, serves, serves.
1917.. £9,631 7 p.c. = £2BOO £5,902 £929 £38,492
1918.. 12,381 7 „ „ 2800 8,167 1414 39,906
1919.. 12,106 7 ~ ~ 2800 7,264 2042 41,948
Provident Fund, £5OOO .. .. 36,948
1920.. 8,868 7 p.c. = 2800 6,252 36,764
Provident Fund, £lOOO .. .. 35,764
1921.. 3,559 Nil 3,336 223 35,987
Reserves capitalised, £9210 . . . . 26,777
Pref. Ord.
8 p.c. 8 p.c.
1922.. 12,003 1509 3679 5,470 } o-oo«
Provident Fund, £914 .. ) i6l
1923.. 25,442 2624 3707 9,978 i „„
Provident Fund, £3047 .. j t>UB ° "> iJ4
1924.. 21,275 3004 3756 10,149 ) 999(! „ r
Provident Fund, £2140 . . j
1925.. 22,828 3425 5085 8,610).,,,, „„ ORA
Provident Fund, £1262 . . ( 4446 39 ’ 966
1926.. 26,986 3425 7665 6,798 ) -- Qr ,» rrl
Provident Fund, £1513 .. j 1 °°° ’' ,u
All Shares.
1927.. 28,186 8 p.c. = 14,000 7874 ),..,. - 9 999
Provident Fund, £1641 j
It was easily a record year. Certainly the
new capital raised in the preceding term was
at work for the full 12 months; but even so
the co. did particularly well in its chief
department: 101,377 bales of wool were sold
compared with 83,877 for the previous year.
The amount of carry-over wool awaiting sale
at the end of the series was small in practi-
cally every case (Commonwealth Wool’s lot
amounts to 6667 bales), the most satisfac-
tory position in this respect since sales were
resumed after the war. The fact that values
remained firm assisted to brighten the figures,
and only a patch of the gilt was removed by
the slump in mutton values. The co. last
year sold 408,024 sheep and 20,643 cattle, an
increase to 83,718 and 1499 respectively. Good
progress was reported in station-supply busi-
ness, and other departments maintained their
positions. The drought in Queensland cut
off one source of demand for the Ma State’s
surplus jumbucks, but that will probably
improve now that the drought in the northern
State has partially broken and a good deal
of stocking up will have to be done. Rebates
to clients, mostly shareholders, were on the
same basis as in the previous year: 20 p.c.
of the commission on wool and 10 p.c. on
produce and livestock.
This comparison of balance-sheet figures
shows the co.’s expansion:—
1921. 1924. 1926. 1927.
Capital .. .. £45,000 £93,871 £175,000 £175,000
Liabilities . . 150,968 169,790 263,941 296,399
Buildings, etc... 76,867 211,635 237,389 260,266
Stocks .. .. 2,788 2,170 5,207 3,076
Book debts . . 110,865 90,553 1
Cash and public [• 273,012 294,591
securities .. 48,694 -15,753 J
Over the period covered by that table there
have been purchases of country depots and a
big woolstore has been built at Pyrmont; so
the management deserves credit for its suc-
cess in maintaining 8 p.c. divs. to share-
holders and bonuses to clients, while scratch-
ing up reserves to the nice amount visible at
March 31. Now that the principal expendi-
ture on outposts has ceased and the big store
is a profit-earner, the return should show
marked improvement. The position is quite
satisfactory and prospects bright for 8 p.c.,
with possibilities of something better by-and-
bye. At the beginning of the term the prefs.
were converted to ordinaries. The scrip is
now listed, but its appearance is infrequent;
there is a buyer at 235., with last sales at
that figure. The net assets are worth a shade
under 265. per share;.but the bulk of it is in
stores, which are not always the most liquid
asset in the world, as the P.F.A. and others
have discovered.
* * *
Busiiell’s, Ltd., importers and blenders
of teas, coffees, etc. (Sydney). The present
co. began with £50,139 of capital represented
by goodwill (£45,000) and preliminary exes:
f — Dividends ~
Pref. To-Re-
Mar., Profits. 8 p.c. Ordinaries. serves. Deficit.
£50,139
1921. .£14,456 £4326 4 p.c. = £4.509 £5,621 44.518
1922.. 31,674 5600 10 ~,,11,273 14,801 29,717
1923.. 30,092 5600 10.6 „„ 11,899 12,593 17,124
1924.. 36,836 5600 16.6 „ „ 18,759 12.447 4,677
Reserve taken in, £1989 .. .. 2,688
Reserves.
1925.. 41,315 5600 11.1 p.e.=12,526 23,189 20,501
1926.. 43,120 5600 11.1 ~ ~ 12,526 24,994 45,495
Reserves taken in, £63,093 . . . . 108,588
1927.. 49,899 5600 16.6 p.c.=18,790 25,509 134,097
Part of the reserve for “insurance, replace-
ment, taxation and contingencies” has been
amalgamated with general reserves, confirm-
ing suspicions previously expressed by this
Column that the specific titles cloaked a true
accumulation; the taxation reserve in the
latest accounts is included with sundry credi-
tors. Last year’s splendid result was pro-
bably even more glittering than is shown in
the introductory figures. Net profit dis-
closed by the accounts “after providing for
working and managerial expenses, interest,
bad debts, depreciation, income-taxes, reserve
for fluctuation of investments, allocation
[£2ooo] to Staff Provident Fund, etc ”
£33,139. Additions taken direct to the tax-
free income reserve amounted in 1926 to
£11,658 —which incidentally indicates the
wad of tax-free Government stocks held
Latest accounts show a net increase in the
amalgamated reserves of £16,760, but their
consolidation renders it impossible to deter-
mine its composition. And that doesn’t
matter much, anyhow. Tax-free stocks are
included in “Investments—Federal and Stat»
loans, shares in other cos., fixed deposits”
advances etc., less provision against fluctua-
tion ' —£4o4s greater than the previous year.
The large sum held in investments looks very
impressive, but the solid proportion of out-
side liabilities has to be remembered:—
1924. 1925. 1926. 1927
Liabilities .. £250,810 £353,328 £363,242 £365,240
IET?*. :: t!;lM »■« «,».
Stocks.. .. 95,021 137,485 124,119 139,726
Hook debts . . 64,53 8 74,218 82,764 90 824
Investments, etc. 222,778 306,733 357,103 364,059
Liabilities consist largely of “Eastern"
drafts, due to the necessity of financing the
co.’s huge purchases, for its turnover is tre-
mendous.
The public is interested in the 8 p.c. prefs.,
of which there are 70,000. At March 26
holders were in the happy position of-seeing
net tangibles amounting to £4 10s. 6d. for
each share and every chance of the backing
being added to. Their div., of course, is
secured beyond ordinary hazard: last year
profits were more than eight times as much as
was necessary to pay the 8 p.c. Ordinaries
are doing well, yet the increased div., plus the
£5600 for prefs., did not take out half of the
year's earnings. Reserves have been built
up to £134,097 in excess of the goodwill item,
which still figures at £45,000. The liquid
position needs to be strong with such heavy
liabilities, but investments and cash alone
covered outside liabilities, leaving stocks and
book debts amounting to £230,000-odd, and
the fixed assets. The prefs. arc seldom quoted ;
last sale was at 245. 6d.
* * * *
Moeeheads, Ltd., wool and produce sales-
men, stock and station agents, etc., Brisbane
(in the following table goodwill of £50,000
is not regarded as an asset) :
Towards
April, Profit. Dividend & Tax. Reserves. Deficit.
1917.. £16,014 15 p.c. = £13,947 £2067 £18,8(1!)
191 S. . 19,802 15 „ „ 14,174 5628 13,271
1919.. 18,642 15 „ „ 14,225 4417 8,854
1920.. 13,867 15 ~ „ 14,175 9,162
1921.. 10,040 10 „ ~ 9,562 484 B,6iS
1922.. 10,381 10 ~ „ 9,562 6819 1,859
Reserves.
1923.. 19,842 15 „ „ 14,343 5499 3,W0
1924.. 19,388 15 ~ ~ 13,781 5007 9,247
r~ —Dividend
1925.. 19,455 15 p.c. = 13,500 5955 15,202
1926.. 17,708 124 „ ~ 11,250 6458 21,660
1927.. 14,768 124 „ „ 11,250 3518 25,178
Moreheads did very well considering that
the pastoral industry in Queensland was so
severely thumped by the drought, and that
for most of the year a substantial wad of
capital was tied up in the construction of
a new wool store. The effect of the bad
season will be felt during the current year.
Not only have there been heavy losses of
stock, but the setback has made it impossible
for many pastoralists to re-stock, so that
the clip for this current year is expected to
be less than half that of last year. Cattle
prices were largely governed during the term
by the condition of the stock routes; where
it was impossible to travel the cattle lower
prices had to be accepted. Rates are about
the same as in 1926, which means that they
still arc unprofitable to many breeders. Im-
proved wool values assisted earnings. • The
average price per bale was £1 6s. lOd. higher
at £24 16s. 9;1.
Last year the co. lost the agency for the
Orient Line, which had materially assisted
past profits; that agency must have repre-
sented some of the goodwill (£50,000), which,
nevertheless, appears unaltered in the latest
accounts. The construction of the new store
altered the liquid position and sent the co.
to its bankers:—
1915. 1925. 1926. 1927.
Liabilities. . . . £45,705 £17,235 £18,166 £61,282
Properties.. .. 26,192 27,382 32,081 91,719
Book debts . . 44,052 41,609 4 9,450 47.044
Shares in cos. .. 26,269 35,736 38,246 40,816
Cash, etc. . . 22,030 21,349 12,265 2,289
Plant, etc. . .ft 5,570 5,361 4,533 1,341
Government bonds disappeared and all the
cash but the till-money. Shares in other
cos. increased by £2500-odd. No details are
given regarding the shareholdings; their
earning quality, however, is pleasantly indi-
cated by the amount received in divs.; last
year £6635 came in from this source —a
shade more than in the previous term —equal
to 16 p.c. Reserves £25,178 in excess of
goodwill have been visibly accumulated, so
that the co. is in a fairly solid position,
though the big intangible would be better out
of the accounts. Shareholders have done
nicely; divs. since 1915 have averaged almost
14 p.c. It might have been better had they
been less, for there was no very great lay-by
even in the best years. Visible net assets
(apart from goodwill) are equal to 255. 6d.
per share.


THE MILLIONAIRES’ CLUB.
Feelings engendered by the Financial Conference between the Federal and State Governments which will talk in millions in Melbourne this week.


DON’T LOSE MONEY-
MAKE IT!
The
“ ‘Wild Cat’ Monthly”
Enlarged and Improved.
JUNE NUMBER NOW ON SALE.
Invaluable to Every Share-dealer.
SINGLE COPY, 2/-
PER ANNUM, 22/6.
Principal Newsagents,
or
“The Bulletin’’ Offices,
Sydney or Melbourne.
We stock -f- GF -f- Malleable Fittings to suit
every requirement, and as there are over 7500
varieties to choose from, we can accommodate any
trade. For water, steam or gas. Will not split or
crack, and are correct in every detail. Obtainable
from William Adams & Co., Ltd., Sole Agents,
Sydney, Newcastle, Melbourne, Brisbane, Adelaide,
Perth.— Advt.
* * * *
Before making any recommendations for conduit,
progressive engineers find it necessary these days to
seriously consider the suitability of Pioneer Wood
Pipe. The service rendered by this adaptable con-
duit is unique, whilst its lightness stands for sim-
plicity of handling, easy' transport and an economy
of installation that cuts down expenses enormously
and permits of a big extension of the scheme.
Pioneer Wood Pipe stands for hygienic cleanliness,
as it never fouls nor corrodes. The Australian Wood
Pipe Co., Ltd., Burns .Bay Road, Lane Cove, N.S.W.
—Advt.
* * * *
Patents. —Have you an idea worth patenting?
Griffith & Hassel, Patent Attorney, 77 Castlereagli
Street, Sydney, obtain Commonwealth and foreign
patents.— Advt.
* * * *
IDEAS —Commonwealth and Foreign Patents
obtained. Com.ison & Co., 483 Collins St "ret, Mel-
bourne, and Adelaide. Thirty yeais’ practice. Write
us for inventors’ Guide. — Advt.
* * * *
If you are a producer of ores, mattes, metals and
metalliferous residues of any kind, Burkard and
Co., Ltd., 26-30 Bridge Street, Sydney, are buyers
for U.K., Continent of Europe and U.S.A. smelters,
and Will pay you the highest prices and give you
best terms. Advances made against ore—and market
information, prices, assays at your disposal. Send
samples and particulars.-— Advt.
* * * *
Leplastrieus' Concrete Mixers —of all necessary
sizes—are designed and manufactured in Australia by
expert engineers. Apply Goldsbrough House, Sydney ;
Collins House, Melbourne; 164 Edward Street, Bris-
bane : or 21 Morphett Street, Adelaide.— Advt.
sf: * * *
A hie:h-class line of Italian Microscopes, known as
the “Koristka,” pronounced by eminent authorities to
be equal to the best German instruments, are now
being offered by Messrs. Felton, Grimwade & Co.
Pt.v., Ltd.. Melbourne, who have been appointed
sole Australian agents. Inquiries will be promptly
responded to. — Advt.
<» * * *
Hydraulic Power Electric and Hydraulic Lifts
Limited (incorporated by Act of Parliament,
1888), hydraulic, electric and general engineers, lift
specialists. Maintenance and repairs of all classes of
lifts and other machinery. Mercantile Mutual Build-
ing, 14 Martin Place. Sydney.— Advt.
All Right!
I’ll meet you at
YOUNG S JACKSON’S
The place of meeting of all men on
business and pleasure.
Standing on MELBOURNE’S most
historic corner, everybody who knows
MELBOURNE knows—
Young & Jackson’s,
on the corner of
Flinders and Swanston Streets.
r'vervbodv who visits MELBOURNE wants to
see the FAMOUS PICTURE GALLERY, in
which is included the world-renowned “Chloe.'"
First-class accommodation for visitors.
Nothing but the best in all liquors.
J. A. SAFE, Prop.
Tilling-Stevens Motors Ltd.,
Maidstone, England.
24-, 3-, 5/6-TON GEAR-DRIVEN 30-PASSENGER “EXPRESS”
MOTOR CHASSIS.
SOLE CONCESSIONAIRES:—
GUTHRIDGE, LTD., 10-12 Parramatta Road, Camperdown, Sydney
Queensland
Insurance Co.
Ltd.
Head Office:
Pitt & Bridge Streets,
Sydney.
The Largest
Australian Company
transacting
Fire, Marine, Personal
Accident and Sickness,
Burglary, Live Stock,
Public Risk, Boiler Ex-
plosion, Workers’ Com-
pensation, etc., etc.
The Commonwealth Traders’ Insurance
Co., Ltd., states that the “Wild Cat” was in
error in referring to a holding of Common-
wealth General Assurance Corporation
shares. The item “shares in other cos.” is
“represented by full value dividend-producing
scrip.”
»!•
Queensland Mines Department sent an-
other diamond drill early last month to
Mt. Isa, making three on the job. It is
very suggestive of speeding up the supply
of information on sulphides for Corbould’s
use on the other side. He has been some
little time in London now, and the cables
have not talked about any new financial
arrangements, making it look more than ever
as if the Anglo-American ,Corp. of S. Africa
has not finally quitted. The delay in cabled
news plus the directors’ recommendation to
shareholders to hold tight strengthens this
view, which was expressed by the “Wild
Cat” at the time. The Anglo-Asiatic was
mentioned by an American journal some time
back as being anxious to have a look at
the Isa enterprise. Meanwhile the railway
is steadily progressing towards the field.
:J: * % ❖
Mount Morgan shares have hardened
appreciably since the possibility of the co.
realising its assets has cropped up, and
buyers have not been hard to find. Funds
have been carefully nursed since the question
of new methods first obtruded itself, and
apart from mine and plant values, the invest-
ments standing to the co.’s credit show well.
These include £144,145 in Electrolytic Ilefin-
ing and Smelting, £125,000 in Australian
Fertilizers Prop., and £134,072 in Metal
Manufactures, all at cost. The 1926 accounts
showed also debenture holdings totalling
£187,195, while debtors, including temporary
loans, amounted to £130,973. Outside lia-
bilities are estimated at a trifle more than
£40,000. There are a million shares in
the co.
Copper gougers told a mournful tale lately
to the Federal Tariff Board in Brisbane in
support of a bounty of £lO on copper. It
was a voice crying in the wilderness, for
the gougers are few. They got a really
serious wallop from the notification of Mt.
Morgan that no more ore would be bought.
That closed the only avenue in Queensland
for disposing of their stuff to Australian
buyers. On the representation of the Min-
ister for Mines the co. agreed to accept par-
cels for a couple of weeks further, merely to
obviate hardship on those who had ore at
grass. As the Mackay experimental plant
is closed at present pending the boring of
the porphyries there, things are going to
be pretty bad in Cloncurry mining before
they get better.
* * =i=
Old miners (and there are precious few of
them left nowadays) were mildly excited
-when the Melbourne papers reported that
rich reefs had been found at Gisborne and
Donnybrook, not far from W. J. T. Clarke’s
old station, Bupertswood. An old prospector
who knows both places says that the Bullen-
garooll district is full of faults, which makes
prospecting and mining expensive and very
uncertain. Tom Kilroy, son of the original
prospector for W. .J. T. Clarke at Bolinda
Vale, has just crushed 16 tons for 930 z., and
there is no doubt that long ago the ground
was worked by the Clarkes for rich yields of
gold from short shoots of quartz which did
not live down. Donnybrook is only 23 miles
from Melbourne.
* * * *
“O.B.” : Development and Migration Com-
mission’s report on Kalgoorlie’s goldmines
falls far short of mine-owners’ expectations.
Neither a gold bonus nor lavish financial
assistance by State or Commonwealth is
recommended as a means of reviving the
almost down-and-out industry, nor is any-
thing said in favor of reduced Custom-duties
and cheaper freights in order to cheapen
operating costs. Something is mentioned
about giving financial assistance, but only
on condition that the mine-owners can’t raise
the wind themselves. In other words, say the
mine-owners’ spokesman, the Commission is
averse to helping those who help themselves,
but may help those who don’t or won’t. In
the face of existing economic conditions and
the belief in London that the field is about
done, the Kalgoorlie mineowners have no
earthly hope of getting capital there or else-
where* to. buttress up their operations unless
they receive solid State or Commonwealth
financial backing. If that is not forthcoming,
and forthcoming soon, continued “selective
mining,” followed by the early liquidation of
most of the cos. operating on the field, is
certain.
* * * *
“Peter’s” revivalist plans :
The report of the Gepp Commission on Westralian
mining turned out much as expected. A committee
of well-selected W.A. mining men, consisting of
manager, driller, prospector, miner, investor and an
officer of the Mines Department, could prepare within
a month a report mere appropriate to the case with-
out calling any evidence at all. If a revival of the
industry is to be brought about, it is not likely to
be through developments at the Boulder or Sons of
Gwalia leases, but through the location of new ore
deposits in other areas. No doubt most of the
obvious deposits have been found, but it is to the
discovery of concealed deposits that attention should
be directed.
Amalgamation proposals may be classed under
three heads: (1) Amalgamation of two or more payable
areas; (2) amalgamation of payable with unpay-
able areas; (S) amalgamation of unpayable areas.
No. 1 looks easy, but has almost invariably proved
to be impracticable through the antagonism of the
various staffs concerned, these not being anxious to
vote their jobs away ; the unsuccessful efforts to amal-
gamate the Westonia group is a case in point. No.
2 is more likely. No. 3 generally results in the
position being no better than before; in this connec-
tion, the case of the Ivanhoe and Lake View and Star
comes to mind. As for sinking huge hauling shafts
on mines whose high-grade or payable-grade reserves
have been depleted to exhaustion —well, the scheme
does not appeal to the practical.
While admitting that reviving a declining gold
industry is an extremely difficult problem, it should be
borne in mind that W.A.’s auriferous belts are long
and wide and no doubt contain probabilities. The
industry might be stimulated by further assisting
prospectors and investors. Prospectors could be
helped with cash and by providing a number of
them with portable plants capable of drilling to a
depth of from 50 to 100 feet and by rendering geologi-
cal advice more readily available. Investors would
be assisted and encouraged by a £1 to £1 sub-
sidy on capital actually subscribed for developmental
operations ; that is, when investors put up their cash
the Government to put up the subsidy. At present,
investors must rely for assistance on an allocation
from a Government grant which is sometimes made
available only by way of a loan advanced on the
security of their assets, and this only when investors
are stone broke. Even then they have to spend 50
p.c. of such advances in expenses incurred in inter-
viewing members of Parliament and hanging for
two or three months round Government offices cap
in hand. The value of the remaining 50 p.c. is gener-
ally lost by way of damaged credit brought about
through mortgaged assets.
•I* •!*
Jiruble Bar gold find, on tile road from
Meekatharra to Marble Bar (W.A.), lias
duffered out. Strenuous efforts were made
last year to induce Adelaide to become in-
terested in this field, but it showed good
sense in saying no. Prospects were fair on
the surface, but, as The Bulletin pointed
out when flotations were talked of, indica-
tions were against values going down.
* * * *
Brief reference was made at Mutooroo's
recent Adelaide meeting to the Mount Vernon
(W.A.) show on which the co. holds an
option. It was stated that heavy rains had
delayed the transit of plant, which, however,
was now in course of erection. Meanwhile
developmental work was being pushed ahead
and good results were predicted. There are
some grounds for this bright hope.
:|s s*: %
Monte Carlo Co. (W.A.) is whooping
about the good crushing recently obtained
from Glenelg Queen at Hollow’s Find, but
the task of getting the public in is proving
very hard. The ore treated is part of a
small enrichment which a former option
holder exposed. He gave up because values
petered out at depth.
* * * *
From Perth comes word of a tin-bearing
lode on Crawford’s Tabba Tabba station,
near Port Hedland. A fair amount of the
metal has been got in various places in this
section of the Kimberley division, the last
available return showing 131 tons for 1924.
The station owners have taken up a lease,
and shafts have been sunk on the line. In
the deepest, at 80ft., the lode is said to be
Bft. wide and worth £l6 per ton —presumably
at ruling London prices. "Working capital
has been raised and local peggers are already
out. The man who takes rhuch notice of a
tin assay is liable to wake up some day
sadder but wiser.
❖ ❖ ❖ ❖
One of the S.A. investors who have been
keeping the Brilliant at Yalgoo (W.A.)
going for years has just visited the show,
lie thinks operations should continue until
No. 5 level is opened up; and, in the cir-
cumstances, this is the best course to follow.
if: H* >jc Hi
Marai’oa Co. (W.A.) is again talking
about pi’ospects and ore reserves, but still
remains on the call list, and the market for
its shares could not be weaker. Something
is said in the latest directors’ report about
selecting sites for State-aided bores, but it
looks as if it would be moi'e in shareholders’
interests if a site for interment was selected.
Hs * ❖
Not long ago Guinea Gold, the Adelaide flo-
tation which acquired leases on the Bulolo
River and Ivoranga Creek, announced that it
was offering options over a block of leased
areas which the co. held. As a result .1. V.
R. Miles, of Sydney, has despatched a party
to New Guinea. This is to give the areas a
look over. The fact that Tom Horton, of the
Austral Malay, is in charge of the expedition,
and has with him Harry Betlnme, who has
recently returned from Siam, where he has
been conducting boring tests for Sydney
Siam, is significant. Miles is chairman of
Sydney Siam, and the little expedition looks
like a really serious attempt on the part of
Sydney mining promoters of calibre to take
an interest in the much-questioned New
Guinea Eldorado.
He ❖ * *
The news that McLean, the Queensland
mining warden who was borrowed by the
New Guinea Administration to help it out of
the mess it made of the Bulolo rush, had re-
signed, was no surprise to those acquainted
with conditions up there. McLean was an
experienced mining warden, and gives as the
cause of his resignation his utter inability to
get the Administration to carry out the min-
ing ordinance amendments he was specially
imported to suggest. Added to that, the
Administration at Rabaul continually vetoed
and reversed his decisions without any know-
ledge of the facts. Government Anthropolo-
gist Chinnery, who has been appointed in
McLean’s place, had a little experience of
alluvial mining in Papua in the declining
days of the Yodda goldfield, when he was an
assistant resident magistrate.
❖ ❖ ❖ ❖
Guinea Gold has announced that official
permission has been granted for each of its
three new flotations, South, Central and
North, to hold more than one mining lease.
The areas are on the Bulolo River itself —
alluvial flats of the lower Bulolo Valley.
Intensive testing is now in hand, and the
parent co.’s whole staff has been diverted to
these areas, with the result that work on
the co.’s original holding has been hung up.
The reason for this sudden activity may be
found in the expected advent on the Bulolo
of the representatives of well-known Sydney
mining interests.
* * * *
The first shipment of Takuapa’s new
dredge by Poole and Steele, of Sydney, was
made last week. Like the No. 1 dredge, it
is electrically operated, Diesel engines on the
dredge supplying the power for the dynamos.'
Capacity will be larger than No. 1, which
is rated at 150,000 c.y. per month. Ratrut
Basin is also busy with dredge transport.
The old dredge is being dismantled for shift-
ing to the co.’s new property at Sichon, in
Southern Siam. The first shipment of the
new dredge, a 150,000-c.y. per month plant,
also by Poole and Steele, will be made in
August.
* * * *
Austral Malay, the oldest of the Australian
prospecting and promoting cos. in Malaysia,
has released the annual reports of its five
pups, including Puchong, the latest of the
litter. The parent co. itself has had a good
year in spite of heavy prospecting outlay on
the investigation of the new Pungah area,
which will be worked by yet another subsi-
diary co. as a bucket-dredging proposition.
Options have also been taken over another
Siamese area at Klong Rah. Income from
investments was £15,735, as compared with
£10,653 in 1925. Balance brought forward
increased the amount available to £25,566.
Of this, £15,000 went in divs. amounting to
3s. a share, and after deducting £1654 for
general expenses and depreciation, £8912 was
carried forward.
Puchong’s staff spent most of the year
since the co.’s formation in December, 1925,
in testing tin-saving appliances, the tin oxide
being very fine and evenly distributed through
the wash. J. S. Henry, of Austral Malay,
has been investigating plans for a modern
dredge in London, and hopes to let the con-
tract early in July.. . .
Kampong Kamunting. though less ground
was treated by the two dredges than in 1925,
made a net profit of £53,444, after writing
off £14,653 for amortisation and depreciation.
With the amount brought forward from 1925,
there was £56,327 for distribution. Four
divs. of 2s. were paid, leaving £327 to go for-
ward. The ground worked proved slightly
richer than last year and working profit was
higher, in spite of a cost increase of .66d. per
c.y. Directors are cheery about prospects.
Asam Kumbang’s report for 1926 calls
attention to the fact that recoveries were only
84 p.c. of the values indicated in the boring
tests. This is probably due to much of the
ground work having been “picked” in the
past by Chinese open cuts, which had refilled.
Areas ahead should be more regular in -con-
tent. After the usual writing-off for depre-
ciation, etc., net profit was £39,316. With
£876 from 1925, the total was £40.192. Divs.
totalling Bs. per share absorbed £40.000. The
ground now being dug averages 32ft. deep
and is estimated to go .851 b. of tin oxide to
the yard.
Ulu Yam had the pleasant experience of
getting into ground that grew richer as the
months rolled by. Net profit was £20,740
after writing off £15,303. to which £3167
from last year was added. Divs. equalling 3s.
per share took £15,000. This year’s ground
is expected to average .711 b., and a bigger
div. is regarded as a certainty—possibly up
to Bs. per share.
Thabawleik’s dredge did not set in till
last November, and some trouble with the
manufacturers, which has been adjusted, hin-
dered progress. The dredge is, however,
highly efficient, though the ground, mostly
sand and stones with clay binding, is not of
the easiest type. Values are high, and the
returns, so far, have borne out boring esti-
mates, going well over lib. per yard. The
co. started with capital insufficient to finance
the unexpectedly heavy dredge and mine
equipment costs. The future seems promis-
ing, however, and divs. are not likely to be
long delayed.
* * * *
“Oil Shaler” :
The comment by “Kerogen” from Berlin (B.
12/5/’27) that “as applied to Australian shales
and torbanites the Pintsch process would be value-
less” calls for answer. In 1921 the Pintsch eo.
supplied its first retorting plant to the State oil-
shale industry of the Republic of Esthonia. Nearly
a year ago I received from the superintendent of
the Esthonian State mine at Kohtla a description
of the successful working of the plant, with complete
data, photos and prints. Australia is getting nearer
the point when its large deposits of oil shale and
brown coal will be used commercially to give this
country the domestic oil supply it so badly needs,
and the Pintsch is a practical and simple retort for
the purpose.
* # sK *
A new process by which 85 to 90 per
cent, of tin left in residue is claimed to be
recoverable as metal—not as a concentrate
—is being tried in Cornwall. If as good
as stated, the process should be of consider-
able benefit to lode-tin mine-owners, who now
have to leave a percentage of the tin con-
tents of the ore in the tailings. Extrac-
tion processes, however, rarely come up to
laboratory results.


30
m.
f
r~-
L
\
y
k
yiii
"//A
m
1
s
%
NSS
i
iC
W/ |
22
ELS
SSSSSSSSSft^^SBSSjSWSjij^W^^K^
25559
DEWAR’S
THE SPIRIT OF SPORT
Sport goes hand in hand with manliness. In the keenness of its friendly rivalry
lies the willingness to acknowledge the victor. Love of fairplay is the mark of
sportsmen and hence their readiness to acclaim the supremacy of
DEWAR’S


Usher’s Hotel Ltd.
Castlereagh Street, Sydney.
A first-class new and up-to-date
modern hotel.
Running hot and cold water in all bid-
rooms and many have Bath de Luxe.
Automatic bedside telephones.
English and Trench Cuisine.
New Marble Bar, spacious and airy.
For perfection of service, comfort
and cleanliness, Usher’s Ltd. is un-
equalled.
Inclusive Terms, apply
MANAGER.
Consistent- in ExceHenceSincels7s
Very Did
LLANDGIN
*ajj4 jJu M
HO
m
Trf^r;
i'iiwpTTi i r
II
V/fflji
hit
mm
US3
m
A SK for BolsVery Old Holland
Gin in the STONE Bottle,
or Bols Silver Cap Dry Gin in
the Square Glass Bottle with
the Green Label.
EVERREADY
r TORCHESi
The Worlds Best
è
Wriu ft nuairtud Outer*.
The Ever-Ready Co. (Gt. Britain) Ltd-
16} Pitt Street, Sydney
PERSONAL
ITEMS
Vic. Senator Guthrie, whose fight for Aus-
tralian films is engaging the respectful atten-
tion of a Royal Commission, is lucky to be
moving about, even on one leg. Twenty or
more years ago he was left on the operating-
W. L. HAM, the newest “silk” at the Mel-
bourne Bar.
table for dead. A nurse detected signs of
vitality and brought Guthrie back. Since
then he has been under the knife more than
20 times, but at 55 has the torso and biceps
of a star wrestler.
Harry Chisholm, who died in Sydney last
week, was a great friend of the soldiers dur-
ing and after the war, in which his
two sons served. As an A.J.C committee-
man lie took a profound interest in the
racing club’s convalescent homes for Dig-
gers ; and his wife’s work for the Comforts
Fund in Egypt, where daughter Sheila mar-
ried Lord Loughborough, was famous. Chis-
holm was an identity at the Tirranna picnic
races for 55 of his 69 years. His stock-
dealing firm, with which Ken Austin has
been associated for 15 years, dates back to
1895. He wasn’t particularly lucky in his
own choice of horses, but picked many a
good one for clients.
S.A.’s new Judge, Arthur William Piper,
is a son of the manse; his father brought
him to Australia in early childhood. He was
admitted to the Bar shortly after he had
attained his 21st year, and’ before he was
30 he had made his mark. He is a promi-
nent Mason, and literature is among the
busy man’s interests. One of his sons served
in the A.I.F. for three and a half years, and
another joined the 48th Battalion in 1916
at 18.
London reports the death of Dr. Simon,
the little Frenchman who bought mines freely
in Westralia when Coolgardie was booming
and w r ho married one of the Tasmanian
Fyslies. Simon acquired several shows with
“bagfuls of gold” in sight for a wealthy
Parisian crowd and also some with gold
brought from elsewhere. One “bagful” sent
to Paris so delighted Simon’s principals that
they cabled to hire the nearest battery and
start crushing. Simon laconically replied:
“Send the reef back.”
The übiquitous Australian again! Just
returned to Melbourne, Captain H. J. T.
Russell, R.A.F., who has been up in the
air almost continuously, except for sleep and
meals, since 1914. During the war he flew
in Mespot and Egypt as a member of the
original Royal Flying Corps. On the out-
break of peace he joined up as a pilot on
the Royal Mail Service between Cairo and
the city of Ilarun A 1 Raschid. Ho found
flying conditions in Iraq much as they are
in Australia —that is to say, perfect, though
this country has the advantage of not har-
boring Arabs with a fondness for taking pot-
shots at passing airmen.
Lawson won’t take the Vic. Speakership or
the Opposition leadership or any prominent
Parliamentary job just now. He feels that
he has done enough scapegoating for the
Nationalists. Labor would have been glad
to see him removed from the Opposition de-
bating ranks. Argyle would make a more
aggressive Opposition leader than McPherson,
but the Nats, may not like to turn on Mac.
Walter Gale has discovered another comet
—the seventh notch in his telescope. One
he discovered in 1894 was named after him;
so was the 1912 comet—Gale 11. It’s dogged
as does it—he gives the heavens a once-over
every clear night. Banking was Gale’s busi-
ness—he was manager of the N.S.W. Govern-
ment Savings Bank —but astronomy has been
his hobby since boyhood, which, as he is
62, is a long time ago. Besides his cometary
exploits he has mapped out a number of
“canals” on Mars, and discovered the “oases”
on the same planet in the early ’nineties.
Perhaps Vic. Premier Hogan’s best politi-
cal friends, if he had known it, were the
Labor-selection balloters of Kalgoorlie who
turned him down, some 13 years ago, for
a safe State seat by expressing their decided
preference for “Texas” Green, now M.H.R.
Hogan might have forced his way to the
front in the W.A. Parliamentary Labor
party, but he wouldn’t have done it so
quickly as he managed it in Victoria. There
was less room at the top.
Nearly 40 years ago one of the clickers in
Sargood’s boot factory at Dunedin (M.L.),a
lad named Joe Mellor, joined the chemistry-
class at the Technical School. He immedi-
ately discovered that he had found the thing
he could do best. After Otago Uni. had given
him its D.Sc. he went to England and be-
came consulting chemist to several big pot-
tery firms. He recently got his F.R.S., pro-
bably in recognition of his treatise on applied
chemistry, an encyclopaedic work in 12 vol-
umes, of which six have been published.
Nicolai Evert, an Adelaide Communist, had
a Red funeral lately. His pall and coffin
were scarlet, and so were the flowers: the
mourners wore red posies, and sang “The Red
Flag.” Evert, a Russian by birth, served
with the A.I.F. and was badly gassed.
William Francis McGee Darragh, equally
well known on the south and north coasts
of N. S. Wales, has gone to swap reminis-
cences with another experienced pasto-
ralist, Father Abraham. He was born 80
years ago at Candelo, his father,a first cousin
of the Irish patriot Thomas Darragh, immor-
talised in “The Wearin’ of the Green,”
having just arrived in Australia. The Dar-
raghs specialised in show cattle and horses;
one prize-winner, King Bully, drew Car-
dinal Moran round Sydney for many years.
H. A. Pitt, Vic. Under-Treasurer, who is
to act as Agent-General for a month, is no
stranger to the Cabbage Garden’s London
office. He spent six months in it as an
exchange officer before the war, when he
was Treasury sub-accountant. He happened
to be in London on a trip, mainly on public
business, when it occurred to Hogan that
he could carry on for a few weeks, thus
giving the Ministry time to look around for
a figurehead for three years. A Nationalist
with a seat that Labor could win would
have big qualifications for the job.
Charles Percy Barlee Clubbe, the medico
whose name was made a syllable longer b.v
George Rex on the monarch’s last birthday,
had his cognomen enlarged for his work on
behalf of the health of children in Sydney
during the last 43 years. It was in 18S4
that he became hon. surgeon to the Royal
Alexandra Hospital for Children, and he pio-
neered the anti-toxin treatment of diphtheria
in Australia.
The death of Judge Edwards, of M.L., re-
calls the row over his appointment in 1890.
The Court of Appeal held that Harry Atkin-
son had no right to make the appointment,
but the Privy Council held that he had, and
Parliament stumped up £5500 to pay
Edwards’s expenses. He was worth adding
to the Bench, if only for his knowledge of
native affairs.
An old political warhorse who sniffs the
battle once more is Pat McGarry, who wants
to run. as a Nationalist for Albury. Pat’s
political history started when he W T as selected
as Labor candidate for Goulburn. He was
SIR JOHN
GOODWIN,
Queensland’s new
Governor, sworn
in last week.
a very rough dia-
mond, but that
didn’t matter until
the Labor executive
got the idea into
its head that Goul-
burn would be a
sweet thing for a
party boss. So Hec-
tor Lamond (then
of the Worker)
was pushed forward
in place of Mc-
Garry, who was
given the apparently
hopeless task of
winning Murrum-
bidgee. The bosses
were poor pickers:
Lamond was de-
feated, and Mc-
Garry won hand-
somely. Pat was un-
shakable in the seat,
even after the con-
scription split, and
held it till single
electorates disap-
peared.
A. C. Dreverman, who has been appointed
principal of Dookie (Vic.) Agricultural Col-
lege, comes from a similar job at Lon-
gerenong, but he is no stranger to the
Dookie seminary. He began there as a stu-
dent and was its science master for many
years.
Died at Brisbane, in melancholy circum-
stances, Oscar Meston, Archie Meston’s second
son. He was employed in the Justice Depart-
ment, and was looked upon as a good officer:
but nerves got him, and his friends couldn’t
brighten him up. Oscar had many of his
father’s characteristics —facial appearance,
gait and passion for Greek mythology, among
others. He had, too, something of Archie’s
gift for scribbling, with a lighter touch.
Russell Clarke, the only Digger in Vic.’s
Dreary House and a brother of the Presi-
dent, who calls him to order when necessary,
is one of the aspirants to the Agency-General.
He was more than 40 when he ’listed, and
before he was knocked out he earned a
couple of pips. He once shocked a swell
London club, to which he had the right of
entry, by appearing there in the regalia of
a full private.
A well-known character in the Heathcote
(Vic.) district, Charlie Ethridge, has served
his last drink. He was always trembling,
and habitues of his bar ordered their beer
by saying, “Shiver us out a pint, Charlie.”
“Hamer”; I remember the first speech
delivered by J. A. Stanton, who was put up
by the Sydney School of Arts debating club
to argue the point with Hughes and Holman
the other day. It was made before the mem-
bers of a small organisation on a motion
of my own that compulsory military service
was desirable in Australia. Stanton, an
enthusiastic supporter, rose to his feet with
a big rr?.i of written-out arguments clenched
in his hands, and stepped towards the table.
Paralysis caught him half-way, and he re-
mained poised on his toes, trembling and
stuttering, unable to get beyond “I am in
favor of compulsory military training.” He
tore at his shaking manuscript for a while,
and then gave it best. “And so’s every sen-
sible Australian,” he gasped at last, and
sat down abruptly. But Stanton since then
has become an orator and is now one of the
leading Labor lights on the north side of
the Harbor.
“R.H.W.”; Mr. and Mrs. Henry Easton,
of Leura (N.S.W.), had a “diamond wed-
ding a few weeks ago. Before his retirement
Mr. Easton was railway stationmaster at
Sydney—he retired soon after the Central
Station was opened. An event in his career
happened during the visit of a foreign man-
o’-war on which the late Archduke Franz
Joseph served. (Franz was the archduke
whose assassination is supposed to have led
to the Great War.) The Government of
the day wished to entertain him. so it sent
him, by special train, on a fortnight’s tour
of the colony, as it then was. At the end
of the trip the usual buckshee was handed
out to the train crew, but the serang hesi-
tated about offering hard cash to Mr. Easton
who was in charge of the train. So he took
a gold pin, with his monogram headed by
a crown, from his tie and handed it over;
and the old railway-man still keeps the trin-
ket, and the memory, after 34 years.
Professor J. Le Gay Brereton, of Sydney
Uni., who judged the S.M.H.’s “Canberra
Ode” competition and interlarded his report
with persiflage, has also done his best to
enliven the pages of “Who’s Who”: “Educated
at various schools, where he learned to hate
constraint and the rule of thumb; and at
the University of Sydney, where he learned
the importance of wasting time. Continued
his education as schoolmaster, tea merchant,
and civil servant, with fruitful intervals of
idleness, and learned to work hard in the
spirit of indolence.”
“R. Mort” : Havelock Ellis has allowed him-
self to be studied biographically by Isaac
Goldberg. The volume should have a pecu-
liar interest for Australians, as it was
during the four years he spent in this coun-
try (1875-79) that the now world-famous
scientist discovered “that vast dark continent
which is oneself.” He earned his living at
various jobs of teaching in N.S.W., and
incidentally wrote some early poems at such
places as Sparkes Creek and Junction
Creek. Finally he threw up teaching and
went to Sydney, where he began the study
of medicine. This was his first step to his
great achievement, the six volumes on the
“Psychology of Sex.” Ellis left Sydney to
continue his work in biology at St. Thomas’s,
London. There must be old men in N.S.W.
to-day who got their first introduction to the
three R’s from one of the most distinguished
of modern savants.
J. Lemmon, M.L.A., Vic.’s new Minister
for Education and Labor, sucked in Labor
politics with his first breath. His parents
were the caretakers at the Trades Hall, Mel-
bourne.
George Emery, general manager of Vic.
State Savings Bank, has had his screw lifted
from £3OOO to £3500. So he now draws
£5OO a year more than Irvine, C.J., but he
won’t be entitled to so comfortable a pension
when he retires; the C.J. is sure of £l5OO
a year.
l’rendergast, Lemmon and Jones are the
only three of Hogan’s Labor team (Vic.)
who were in the short-lived Elmslie Govern-
ment in December, 1913. Of the other nine,
five (Elmslie, Evans, Outtrim, Billson and
Fielding) are under the sod, and Plain (now
a Nat. senator), McLellan, Smith and Han-
nah are not now connected with Labor.
Prendergast and Lemmon hold the same jobs
as they did under Elmslie, and Jones is a
salaried, instead of an honorary, Minister.
GEORGE WRIGHT, one of the managing
directors of Farmers’, Ltd., Sydney.
“Ring Bolt”: John Graves, a Hobart
lawyer, who died somewhere in the late
’sixties or early ’seventies, named three of
his girls Trucanini, Mimi and . Mathinna.
Where could anyone find names more eupho-
nious? I remember the young ladies quite
well. I also remember their grandfather,
John Woodcock Graves, the author of the
well-known hunting song, “John Peel.’’ And
a hard old case he was!
HENRY LAWSON, FOSSICKER.
BORN JUNE, 1867.
[FOR T HE BULLETIN.]
Deep in the tangled undergrowth
Of virgin bush, by hidden stream
He knelt and rocked his pan of dirt,
And dreamed his Midas-dream.
High where the beetling ranges flung
Their mist-wreathe 1 battlements in air,
He crushed the age-old, crumbling stone,
And breathed the age-old prayer.
On mirage-haunted saltbush plain
The parching sand swirled in his dish.
As livid, bleeding, sun-cracked lips
Voiced dumbly his heart’s wish.
Gold was his Grail —the gleaming lure
That drew him from a hearth and home
To climb where mountain eagles nest,
And camp where dingoes roam.
A faery gold it must have been,
This lodestone of his thought;
Some magic metal Merlin-mined,
The “color” that he sought;
For ever, as upon his tracks
Came fast his fellow-men.
He’d leave the lode his labor found
And shift his camp again.
They sank the shaft and windlass reared,
They won the wealth he showed,
While goaded by an endjess quest
He tramped a lonely road.
So. too, by tin-strewn mining camp,
In squalid city street,
O’er shimm’ring, sunbaked Western plains,
I trace the way-worn feet
Of one who sought in bush, in town,
A something past his ken,
The gold that lurked in smile and tear
Among liis fellow-men.
N.S.W.
C. E. H.


Another Big Reduction in
PACKARD Prices!
As a result of lower landing costs brought about by reduced freights
and other causes, we are pleased to announce substantial price
reductions on Packard Single-Six models—-effective as from June 1.
New Price. Old Price.
4- Roadster .. £795 £795
(Recently Reduced from £900.)
5- Phaeton £795 £795
(Recently Reduced from £875.)
5-passenger Sedan £BlO £B5O
7-passenger Touring Car .... £925 £945
7-passenger Sedan £940 £995
7-passenger Sedan Limousine £985 £lO5O
If you would know the finest in motor cars, ride in and drive one
of these Packard models yourself whether you intend to buy a new
car or not.
Ring FL2671 for Demonstration
IRA L & A. C. BERK (PACKARD) LTD.
Showrooms: BERK HOUSE, 72-76 WILLIAM STREET, SYDNEY.
KELLOW, FALKINER PTY. LTD.,
2(Xi Russell Street, Melbourne.
THE UNIVERSAL MOTORS LTD.,
Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
S. A. MOTORS (PACKARD) LTD.,
141 Flinders Street, Adelaide.
11. C. H EAT I [<)lL\ & CO. LTD.,
Hobart, Tasmania.
PACKARD
((
ASK THE MAN WHO OWNS ONE
>9


CYMA
KNOWN ALLOVERTHE WORLD
/IS THE BEST TIME KEEPER
G
* *
SOLD BY ALL JEWELLERS
Diamonds, plati-
num and gold,
£15/ 157-
Diamonds, plati-
num and gold,
£10/10/-
Diamonds, plati-
num and gold,
£25.
ENGAGEMENT RINGS
of Finest Quality
at Low Prices
Large cash buying powers and long trading
experience enable us to buy diamonds of finest
quality, direct, at low prices. These are mounted
at our own premises, which ensures another big
saving. The latest designs come to us by every
mail and are reproduced with exquisite finish by
expert craftsmen.
Engagement Rings priced from £5 to £250.
Diamonds, plati-
num and gold,
£30.
Diamonds, plati-
num and gold,
£35.
Diamonds, plati-
num and gold,
£25.
FAIRFAX & ROBERTS, LTD,,
The Oldest Jewellery House in Sydney, 23 and 25 Hunter Street.
PLAIN FIGURES CASH ONLY.
Any Truss
will NOT Do!
If you mean
to ensure the
ni ok t effective
treatment for
Rupture, wear
Denyer’s Elastic
Truss.
It affords sure
and safe sup-
©
•a AN 3 0
port, permits ,
freedom in wear, and its patent water-pad
ensures the fullest degree of comfort. All
parts replaceable. All sizes.
Single, 27/6; Double, 37/6.
(Postage Extra.)
Write {or Free Rupture Pamphlet.
DENYER BROS.,
Makers of Trusses, Abdominal Belts and
Artificial Limbs.
Dept. 1, 281 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
ABORIGINAUTIES
MADE IN AUSTRALIA
BARNES LINSEED OIL
“Colub”: The ammonia remedy for the
bites of stingrays given by “Amity Point”
(B. 19/5/’27) will probably be more effica-
cious than oil of turpentine, the therapeutic
value of which is difficult to understand.
When the stingray stabs with its sharp-
pointed barb it injects a small quantity of
a secretion from a gland near the base of its
tail. This secretion, like that of practically
all other venomous creatures, is acid in its
chemical reaction, owing to the presence of
the chief toxic constituents. Ammonia, there-
fore, if applied quickly and so that it pene-
trates the wound, will neutralise the poison
and destroy both its painful effects and its
toxic properties. But it must be applied
within a few minutes of the infliction of the
sting, otherwise the poison will be absorbed
and carried beyond the reach of local reme-
dies.
“Pick”; The cicada hosts commence skirl-
ing simultaneously, and also cease together.
The signals for starting and stopping the
community-singing are changes of light or
atmosphere. When the sun or a strong light
breaks through a clouded sky the locusts
herald the visitation with a full chorus;
when the next cloud-shadow spreads they
return to silence,. They are never heard
when the winds are swinging their perches
in the trees, but every lull on a breezy day
is welcomed by them with shrill song. A
sudden accession of warmth on a cool day
also marks the all-together commencement
of their screeching.
HEAVEN.
LATE AVLATOR (to St. Peter ) : “If I’d had those yesterday I wouldn’t be here now!”
“C. Coral”: Close t 6 the little island of
Pooloo, alongside Mabuiag, Torres Strait,
lie the remains of a big ship’s rudder. Accord-
ing to old hands, who had the story from
their fathers, a ship drifted in one day and
got tangled in the reefs. The canoes went
out, and the natives fraternised with the
ship’s crew; and for a few days all went
well. Then some little breach of etiquette
occurred, and the visitors were knocked on
the head and decapitated with bamboo-knives,
their heads being brought to Pooloo, where
stood the zogo-ground. One white man alone
escaped; and when a king-tide lifted the ves-
sel off the reef she floated out minus her
rudder and with this one survivor. In the
vicinity of Naghir Island she went ashore
again and did the job properly. Naghir
natives accounted for the surviving member
of the ship’s company. The name of the
ship no one knows, but the rudder is still
there.
* * * *
“Murrungurry”: Some abo. legends are
almost identical with Biblical stories. One is
to the effect that the Murray Valley was once
a beautiful and bountiful coun-
try, where neither want nor mis-
fortune entered and life was
everlasting. It was a garden of
Eden, where the Adam and Eve
of the tribe were placed by the
Great Spirit; and there was a
tree, different from all other
trees, which they were com-
manded not to touch. It did
not bear anything they could de-
sire, but was the abode of a
great black bat, which would
cause death if the command was
disobeyed. For a long time the
forbidden tree was avoided as
the home of the debil-debil. but
a woman’s curiosity impelled her
to poke about it, and one day,
‘while picking up sticks for the
camp-fire, she accidentally
brushed against it. The contact
was the magic touch that in-
stantly blighted Eden : the tree
withered like a sensitive plant,
the great black bat flew out,
and death and all manner of ills
came to the world. In that
legend of thousands of years ago
the remnant of to-day seem to
see the reason of their efface-
ment. Death has come into their
world with a pitiless scythe that is mowing
on to the end of the race.
* * * *
“Bungle”: Bill smoothed out liis paper
thoughtfully. “My opinion is all bullicks is
intelligent.” he said. “I saw the bonniest
team o’ blacks clean wiped out ’cause their
fool-owner trusted to his own intelligence
’stead o’ theirs. Slazenger Bill we called ’im.
’lm an’ me—’im a bit shick- —was ’aulin’ a
few sticks t’ the mill, an’ racin’ tv beat the
dark. We ’ad ’arf a tree on between u!;
we’d never ha’ managed it. on’y. as I tell yuh,
those blacks were the pick o’ the country.
Crossin’ the Beelzebub Pass we struck a
great big stick on the track. ‘That’s mine,’
says Slaz., an’ in ’arf a jiff ’e ’as ’is team
un’ooked. ‘Look at th’ bullicks,’ I says.
Them bullicks is tellin’ ’im all they know
’ow not to ’ook ’em on t’ that log. Their big
dark eyes was brimful o’ teal’s. But, as I
tell yuli, Slaz. ’as a few in. ‘l’m boss o’
this crimson show,’ ’e yells. Them bullicks
just give ’im one sorrowful ‘you’ll-be-sorry-
fer-this’ sorter glance, an’ then, with a proud
swing o’ their pore heads, they got down t’
the job. It was murder, I tell yuh, sheer
murder. That ‘log’ give one awful ’eave, an'
made tracks fer the nearest tree, pullin’
those 16 blacks after ’im as if they’d been
a string o’ sossidges. It was the biggest
goanner I ever seen. But we was ’elpless.
noor oP Slaz. an’ me. We just stood there
an’ watched it —16 o’ the best bullicks on
th’ river ’ung before our eyes. ’Ung before
our ruddy eyes. I tell yuh.”
* * *
“Coot”: When were pannikins first used
in Australia (B. 26/5/’27) ? Dawson’s
“Present State of Australia,” published in
1830, refers to a man going to a spring and
bringing “a pannican full”; and has another
mention of “several tin pannicans.” The
word is not Australian ; both Thackeray and
Marryat used it.
i'fi ❖ ❖ *
“Phil. P.”: Evidently the distribution of
Tassie’s native tiger (B. 28/4/’27) is not
quite familiar to “W.W.” He says it seldom
comes below the winter snow-line. If it had
confined itself to that area it would have
been extinct long ago through scarcity of
food. The marsupial •wolf —to give its cor-
rect title —is certainly at home in the high-
lands, but is equally so along the coastline.
I have seen them taken at Port Davey and
further north along the Henty beaches.
Their footprints when chasing wallaby could
be seen on the sands at any time. On the
East Coast, too, at Swansea or Spring Bay,
it was not necessary to climb to the snow-
line to find them. There are still plenty of
tigers in the unexplored parts of the island
State. They are shy but curious, and I
have had one walk under the “fire-fly” of my
camp on the Navarre, west of Lake St.
Clair. The Government does not now pay
a bonus for their destruction, though sheep-
men generally reward the hunter who makes
a catch. One caught near Buckland mea-
sured 6ft. llin. tip to tip.
* * * *
“Pick”: If the preparation of kerosene and
creosote recommended for the eradication of
white ants -is thoroughly soaked into the
ground-plates, bearers and flooring-joists of
a new building the termites will not pass
into the upper structure. When they are
already established there, however, unless the
solution is directly poured upon the colony,
it lias no other effect than that of driving
them from one place to another. The surest
way of effectively dealing with the pest is
to poison them with a mixture containing 60
p.c. of arsenic, 20 p.c. of flour and 20 p.c.
of sugar. A teaspoonful of this powder,
placed in any part of the ants’ track to and
from the earth will destroy the whole colony.
(Continued on page 27.)
THE NAMOI TOWNS.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Every bush-bred man and boy
Who’s wandered down the slow Namoi
Must somehow get the call to sing
(The towns themselves like jewels string),
Although his song may be like this,
To pedant ears somewhat amiss,
Devoid of measured beat or time;
Sometimes of sense; sometimes of rhyme.
They trip along like Cuttabri, Carbeen and
Cubbaroo.
They bubble up like Boggabri, Gulligal and
Barren,
Or blow like Breeza, Milliwindi, Bugilbone
and Cryon.
They sigh like Wee Wag, Beanbri, Eurie,
Ukolan.
Here for a sheepy rhyme, though late,
We’ll add Baan Baa and Burburgate.
And now that you see how the rules one may
scatter,
We’ll pick up our swags as if time didn’t
matter,
And free from civilised turmoil and clatter
Let genius loose —with a touch of the “hat-
ter.”
With self-conferred liberty knowing no limit
We’ll leisurely tramp it, or boat it, or swim it,
From mountainous Bendemeer down to Wal-
gett ;
By homesteads and woolsheds where busli-
poets get
Their ffeedom of manner and free inspi-
rations
(Not to mention free tucker at river-side
stations !),
With freedom to fish under shadowy trees,
To bathe and to ramble about at our ease,
Back and forth, up and down, in fact just as
we please ;
Freedom to hunt in the neighboring scrub,
And freedom in all things but one —there’s the
rub! —
The freedom of every old river-town pub.
SPECIFICATIONS SUPPLIED.
STOREKERPER: “Wot size boots you want, Jacky?”
JACKY: “Same size this pfeller’s feet, Boss.”
Now here we are at Gunnedah,
Whose citizens most moneyed are,
In business they are “It.”
Its girls with smiles most sunnied are
And voices that most honeyed are,
You really must admit.
But we can’t allow compliments sweet as all
that.
Lower down they will say that we rhyme
through our hat;
Besides, if we say all the nice things we wish,
The butter won’t last, howe’er lordly the dish.
There’ll be howls, as from one with his shins
newly barked,
From Boggabri bunkered and Narrabri
narked,
And the wail of Walgett and Cryon’s cry
Will split the arch of the north-west sky;
So before any town can be heard to complain
Let’s jumble them up together again.
Drildool, Goangra, Quia, Gorian,
Tibberena, Yarraldool, Merali, Narrabri,
Carroll (and Boolcarrol, too), Mullaley,
Edgeroi,
Therribri and Tourable, Tulcumbah, Turra-
wan,
Manilla and Menedebri, Pilliga and Keepit,
Gunnedah, Galatliera, Boggabri, Baan Baa.
A brave lot they are, but a rhyme and a
scan
Are due, so we add the wee town of We-an.
Turn them round, mix them up, as your whim
may suggest,
They’ll make their own music and sing with
the best. t
Like Namoi’s stream the list is long,
But one we’ve saved to end the song.
Though lacking abo. liquid tone,
Exhales a music of its own.
It smiles a welcome to all rovers,
Wandering wastrels, swagmen, drovers.
Upon the skyline let your eyes
Rest on this idler’s paradise ;
The place you’ve often read about,
The place you dream in bed about,
Where brolgas in the sunset dance,
The town of blacksoil-plain romance,
The one and only Come-by-Cliance.
s.A.
BILL O’C.


Starts Thursday, June 16th.
GOWINGS SALE
e
<* v
&
oROE R NOty
At least 10% off
all Suits-to-measure
POST THIS FOR PATTERNS.
GOWING BROS., LTD., SYDNEY.
Please send me immediately full range of patterns
of your suits to-measure at the Sale prices.
NAME
ADDRESS
B. 16/6/’27.
£7|ls|- Navy Serge
Suits-to-measure,
XWl. —Special Winter-weight Navy Serge in a Fine
Twill weave of guaranteed Indigo dye. It is all pure
wool and of such quality that it always keeps in shape.
Tailored to measure in high-grade style and remarkably
priced.
£7/15/-, Reduced to £6/12/6. Less 10% ... £5/19/3
£5/19/3
£B/15/- Worsted
Suits-to-measure,
XW2. An excellent suit for the business man. All-
Wool Worsted in Pinhead, Herringbone, Fine Diagonal
and Self Stripe designs. Mid and Dark Grey shades are
for choice, and quality is exceptionally high. A reduc-
tion of 42/9.
£B/15/-, Reduced to £7/7/-. Less 10% ... £6/12/3
£6/12/3
£9/15/-
Suits-to-measure,
Worsted
£8(101-
XW3.—Super-grade English Worsteds in a
fine range of the newest shades and designs.
These Worsteds are all Wool, a beautiful soft
quality, closely woven and exceptionally
good wearing. Order now and save.
£9/15/-, Reduced to £9/9/-
Less 10% £B/10/-
£lO/15/- Dinner
Suits, £9,9/-
XW4. —Correctly tailored from all-Wool
Barathea Coating, with fine quality linings
and silk facings that always lie even and flat.
£lO/15/-, Reduced to £lO/10/-
Less 10% £9/9/-
SEND FOR PATTERNS .
Full list of
BARGAINS
in our SALE
CIRCULAR ,
Post Free.
V
m
! Ism
liM
< A\
%
\
l ™
if*
K
%
SWWS
■V
If
&£
r'X’
ft-at
be
«•«
n
5e
. .
,,
V/is -
:± _f
jfiaSs&HSi
[j
aste
d/fl
y
* f m*i
► ■ yjr£ r iti
.,
/7/5
We Pay Carriag
throughout
Australia.
SPECIAL BARGAINS like these in every Department.
63/- OVERCOATS 54/-
XBI2. —Plain or Belted Style. Made
from warm fleecy Tweed. In plain
Grey or fancy weaves. All sizes.
63/-, Reduced to 60/-
Less 10%
64/-
25/- SHOES 17/11
XAl.—Black or Tan Calf Lace Shoes.
Square and broad toes. Genuine
welted soles. All sizes—s to 10.
25/-, Reduced to 19/11.
Less 10% 17/11
18/6 TROUSERS 14/10
Xol.—All-Wool Tweed Trousers in
Mid and Dark Greys. Side and hi])
pockets. Cuff bottoms. All sizes.
18/6, Reduced to 16/6.
Less 10% 14/10
1 3/- UNDERWEAR 7/8
XH2.—Our famous “Austral” brand
in medium weight Wool and Cotton.
Vests or Pants. Sizes 34 to 44 inches.
11/-, to 13/-, Reduced to 8/6.
Less 10% 7/8
8/6 Khaki SHIRTS 7/2
XJ6.—lvhaki Drill Work Shirts.
Extra heavy weight. Collar and
two pockets attached. All sizes.
8/6, Reduced to 7/11.
Less 10%
25A Felt HATS 18/11
XK2.—Silk-lined Pure Fur Felt Hats.
Semi-curled, bound brims. Grey, Steel
or Fawn. All Sizes.
25/-, Reduced to 21/-
Lese 10%
18/11
21/- TROUSERS 18/-
XC9. —Khaki Cotton Cord Trousers in
Riding or Ordinary cut. Side or
cross and hip pockets. All sizes.
21/-, Reduced to 20/-
Less 10% 18/-
30/- RUGS 27/-
XC2.—The famous “Bosker Junior”—
All-pure Australian Wool, closely
woven and extra soft. Sizes 70 x
90 inches. Various check patterns.
Usually SO/-, Less 10% 27/-
GOWING BROS., LTD., 486 GEORGE ST., SYDNEY. BRANCHES AT 304 & 454 GEORGE ST.


-
\.
A
O
1
I
1
1
£
IS
%
ji*
:
I
/
_
4*
P>
Wmmmm
H
pevgpppii i i i
wore foondsJlalF-Jlosc
T UCRATIVE, congenial employment would be found
for thousands of Australian workers now in dead-end
and casual jobs if all Good Australians supported Australian
industries up to the hilt. The full development of secondary
industries would be followed naturally by the prosperity of
primary industries. Wealth would be created in Australia
for circulation amongst Australians inStead of going to
workers overseas.
Every Good Australian can take a step in the ridht direction by wearind
" Bord’s” Half-Hose. y . *
c 'And Why Not ? *
There are no finer Half-Hose made anywhere, class- for class, than those
bearing the name "Bond's:’ There is NO BETTER VALUE, price for
price, offering anywhere. " Bond’s” Half-Hose offers choice of 4 tex-
tures, 15 designs and over 60 color-combinations. Your mercer has a
good range from which you can make your selection.
Sonets
HAT F-HHSF
nJAL<F iiwOC
Made in Australia by the EMPLOYEES of GEO. A. BOND & CO. LTD.
All States, New Zealand and South Africa ■ Manufacturers of Bond’s
Malf-JHose, Underwear, Towels, Sheeting - Pioneer Australian Cotton Spinners
y
from
2/11
to
5/6
per pair


HULL,
The Natural Port for importation of
Wool to Britain’s
Great Manufacturing Towns.
, Docks specially equipped with
Electrical Machinery for the
handling of large quantities.
Warehouse 3| Acres
Holds 140,000 Bales.
AUSTRALIAN SHIPPERS are in-
vited to inquire for further information
at the offices of Messrs BURNS.
PHILP & CO., LTD., 10 Bridge
Street, Sydney, and Branches.
London & North-Eastern Railway
Largest Dock-Owning Railway in the
World.
SMOKINC
TOBACCO
Australian Agents: R. TOWNS & CO., SYDNEY.
■* ; . ' «< 5
Transport of the Wool
niiiv give trouble. But the way for its sale is
clear of all care for growers if this step is taken:
SEND THE CLIP TO
WINCHCOMBE, CARSON
LTD.
Selling Brokers, Sydney or Brisbane.
A capable firm, energetic, reliable and successful.
“Mapee” : “What is the knob on the end
of the axe-handle for?” asks “Werrimee”
(B. 19/5/’27). It is evident he has never
used the implement for a living on big stuff.
In timber-cutting or scrub-felling in heavy
bush the axeman needs all the reach the
length of handle gives him, and the knob
on its end for a grip. Men do saw the
knob off, shortening the handle by a few
inches, but they are not, as a rule, axemen
by occupation. They use the tool for odd
jobs about the place, for which the short
handle is more convenient. For underhand
work, such as cutting logs lying on the
ground, the shortened handle is preferable,
and men doing much of that class of work
usually make one to suit their height, or
else buy what are known as three-quarter
bandies—about three inches shorter than the
FIRST ONE: “They say ’e treats ’is wife well.”
SECONS ONE : “ ’E must; she’s come back to ’im four times already this year.”
standard. The Canadian lumbermen gener-
ally use a double-bitted axe with a perfectly
straight handle; but to judge by the few
I have seen, they run a poor second to our
Australian and M.L. choppers.
“R.K.”: If “Werrimee” were up on a
hoard 15 feet from the ground chopping
down a scrub giant, he would soon find out
the use of an axe-handle’s butt. Chopping
a wide scarf means that he has to let his
arms and axe-handle out full length to reach
the far side without falling off the board
If he had no butt on the end, the axe would
slip out of his hand. At the same time, no
axeman keeps the full butt on, because its
point may dig into his groin or tummy.
He saws or chops it off at an angle of 45
degrees, leaving the front half of the buH
for grip and guidance. Only amateurs leave
the full heel on. The only time a handle
should be shortened is when the axe is too
heavy.
* * * *
“Atherton”: The shell-fishers of Torres
Strait experienced a gusty beginning this
season, half the fleets having been forced
back to T.I. and other safe anchorages for
shelter. From New Guinea, throughout the
Strait, across to the Barrier and down the
east coast as far south as Cooktown the sea
was “dirty.” The water was impregnated
with extremely fine silt. This prevented the
divers from seeing shell and beche-de-mer on
the ocean floor. During eight months of the
year the sea is clear as crystal, except fox
occasional heavy storms. The treacherous
nor'-west season of about three months is
always laying-up time for the fleets, the
water being "dirty” for practically the whole
period. The flooded rivers of the mainland
and New Guinea then wash their detritus
into the ocean, the torrential rains eat a little
more out of each of the thousands of islands,
the sand- and mud-banks of the sea are stirred
up by storms, and the whole is scattered as
sediment over a thousand miles of ocean by
the tide. Shelters blame the recent pro-
longed vagary of the sea to some submarine
upheaval. Divers operating around New
Guinea describe the water on the sea-floor
as being like a liquid mass of rust.
* * * *
“Sea Bream”: While fishing on the reef
at Woody Pt. (Q.) I landed a shark about
flft. Gin. long. He was beautifully colored,
the skin being a pretty grey mottled with
jet black spots the size of a florin on the
back and of a threepenny-bit on the belly.
I have been informed that it was a leopard;
shark, and that such sharks are rare and
their skins valuable. Is this so?
❖ $ $ :J:
“Up North”: The Northern abos., the
Torres Straiters and the Papuans, although
living within a day’s sail of one another, are
totally different peoples. One custom not
practised by the mainlanders, but until civi-
lisation came a pastime among their island
neighbors, was the souveniring of skulls.
When an island youth collected his first head
lie was frantic with joy. Almost all the
collecting was done by ambush, backed up
by the heavy clubs and the bamboo “head-
knives” keen as razors. The heads were
titivated on the various islands, according to
local recipe. Some were mummified, the
brains, flesh and eyeballs being taken away
and only the actual skull with the carefully
peeled skin and the hair left intact. The
cavities in some instances were filled with
preservative clays and seaweed. When the
trophy was thoroughly seasoned the eye
STABLE INFORMATION.
"Speaking as a shareholder, my friend, I should like to acquire some information about
the position underground. Is it being worked — er — honestly?”
“lt don’t pay me, maister, to craik too much ’bout un; but I’ll tell ’ee this much—
’most all the stopes ’ere cz ‘under’and.’ ”
sockets were filled with eyes of cowrie or of
glaring pearl-shell discs. The majority of
tribes were, however, less scientific, merely
boiling the heads and basing their prestige
on tally of skulls.
“G. 11.7”: Our dogs are infested with huge
ticks. We have tried kerosene and dips of
all strength and descriptions, but without
effect. What will rid the dogs of this pest"?
“AdeL.”: The red-tailed black cockatoos
(Galyptorhynchus bnnl;si ), thought by orni-
thologists to be rare, are certainly not so in
the Gulf country. They generally forage in
small companies of a dozen to 50, but some-
times congregate in thousands upon the
clusters of trees or the lofty gums along the
rivers, denuding them of leaves and twigs in
their quest for the larva; of wood-eating
worms. In .1920 I came upon an immense
flight in possession of all the available spaces
upon the limbs of the trees fringing the
Barkly River, for a distance of three miles.
The trees were bare of leaves and smaller
branches, which lay scattered on the ground
feet deep; and the continuous and rasping
screeching almost deafened you. These hand-
some birds live to a great age, and, except
for the large' monitors which sometimes steal
an egg or two, laid in the bare hollows of
lofty tree-limbs, have no serious enemy.
“Tiffy” : Snapper smelling of iodoform (B.
31/3/’27) have their counterpart among the
China fish on which the crews of the
Nor’-West pearling luggers largely exist. I
have on numerous occasions noticed the
odor, and my Japanese cook always smells
the mouth of a fish when he takes it off
the hook. An iodoformed China fish does
not make good eating, the smell being re-
pulsive, apart from the taste. I have
inquired the reason for this peculiarity, but
the only one given has been that it comes
from seaweed food and is prevalent in the
female fish during the spawning seasons.
It can have nothing to do with hospital
drainage; there is no hospital for 200 miles
along this coast.
* * * *
“Birre Gurra” : Before the motor-car made
the way of jackeroos easy I witnessed the
arrival of one of them at a Westraliau
station. The boss had sent a couple of black
boys into Carnarvon to meet the boat and to
bring home the mail, some stores and the
jackeroo. Besides their own mounts the
boys had a spare saddle-horse, considered
quiet enough for any city blanker, and half
a dozen pack-mules. When the time came
to start for the station, the abos. were
unable to kid the newcomer to approach,
let alone mount, the quiet horse that was
indulging in a little harmless Charlestoning.
Many earnest ‘‘by cripes” and “plurries”
failed to convince the ’roo of the steed's
amiable nature. Then the nigs, got a brain-
wave. The result was that the cavalcade
arrived at the homestead with the quiet hack
protesting at the indignity of a pack. Trot-
ting briskly in response to the urgings of
two grinning natives came the pack-animals,
bunched round a mule that, without bridle
and saddle, carried a self-conscious and sore
jackaroo.
“Gundy” : Many farmers are firm believers
in alleged weather signs. The indications
of drought include whirlwinds, nimbus
clouds, red sunsets, ibises soaring and smoke
rising straight. Rain signs are springs
rising, corns aching, black cockatoos descend-
ing from the mountains, snakes making for
high ground, the new moon coming in on
its back, dry timber falling, the car washing
its face, and smoke hanging low. With so
many portents to choose from it is not sur-
prising if a forecast is occasionally correct.
‘‘Hill R.": The river trout is the most
fastidious of fish. When lying in wait for
any particular insect or.moth that-in num-
bers has been flicking the stream, he will
take no fly counterfeiting any other insect.
There is, however, one lure his appetite
can never resist. It is a worm barbed on
three hooks that hang attached to the line
by shortening snouds. That wriggling bait
coming down stream will induce a rise
from the most determined recluse. Fly-
fishers Avill thank me for the hint, I know.
* * *
“Tokainabul”: I can’t agree with “Som-
malo’s” assertion (B. 31/3/’27) that the
Solomon Island nigger suffers as much from
malaria as the average white man. Cer-
tainly lie harbors the malaria parasite in
his blood, but he has a certain degree of
racial immunity from its effects, and a
well-marked immunity acquired through his
subjection to periodic malarial attacks from
infancy. As a consequence the very occa-
sional dose of malaria suffered by the grown
native is mild and usually subsides spon-
taneously without the need of quinine. The
only niggers who are apt to be severely
affected are bush boys working on planta-
tions in malarious localities. This is because
the mosquito-carrier of malaria in Melanesia
doesn’t live in the highlands, and so Black
Brother of the mountains —unless he visits
the coast —has no opportunity of acquiring
immunity.
THE .CARTERS' DANCE.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
At five o’clock, when the sun is low.
The carters gather from near and far;
The pulled-up lorries are ranged a-row,
The drivers mingle in Casey’s bar.
There are rowdy greetings, jest for jest,
And rough goodwill (as rough as scrub!) :
"Will y’ have one, Bill?” they bawl with zest
When the place of meeting is Casey’s pub.
The call for ale and toasts go round:
“The skin off your nose,” and this and
that;
And the voice of the shrill bar-girl is drowned
As she draws the sap of the brewer’s vat.
Pat Casey bares his broadest smile,
Ten-by-two as the inches go,
And winks a welcome, Irish style,
While the windows blaze in the sunset’s
glow.
Then someone starts a clog-foot jig;
They whistle the tune and thump the
time.
And soon they’re all in the whirligig,
Stamping their feet to the carters’ rhyme.
They halt for breath and they gulp their ale,
For it’s early yet for home and grub.
So they shake a leg as the day-hours pale,
They tread a measure in Casey’s pub.
Now the clock strikes six, and they shout
good-bye,
And the lorries creak on the parting ways.
As the eager horses homeward hie,
The browns and the roans and the dapple-
greys.
To-morrow at morn they will harness up,
Horse and man for the day’s long drub;
But at eventide before they sup
You’ll find them dancing at Casey's pub.
n.s.w.
JOHN BARR.


* r- •
QN
BANK
THE QUEENSLAND NATIONAL BANK, LIMITED.
intorporalacL .under the Companies Act 1863. Established. 1872.
Directors —A. C. Luya, Esq., Chairman; James Love, Esq.; W. H. Hart, Esq.;
M. J, Ryan, Esq.; D. W. Macdonald, Esq.
General Manager — M. G. HAYMEN.
HEAD OFFICE . . ... . . BRISBANE
With offices at London, Canberra (Federal Territory), Melbourne, Sydney, and
95 branches in Queensland and Northern Rivers, N. S. Wales, als °
through the leading Banking Institutions covering Australasia and the World,_ this
Bank “offers the fullest facilities for the transaction of all general banking business.
TUDOR
ACCUMULATORS
for Reliability and Long Life.
Australasian Office —
TUDOR ACCUMULATOR CO., LTD.,
Culwulla Chambers, Castlereagh. Street, SYDNEY.
Visitors to Brisbane!
HOTEL
Book up at the
CECIL
(FIRST CRASS)
Reasonable Tariff —Good Position.
e
“CLYDE
BATTERIES”
For RADIO, MOTOR-CARS AND
COUNTRY HOME LIGHTING.
CLYDE ENGINEERING COMPANY, Ltd.,
Granville; and Goulbum Street, Sydney, N.S.W.
THE MAN
ON THE LANS'D
PAGE
MANURING FOR WHEAT.
"A.E.B ” : Not many years ago, as some
of our textbooks show, the belief was prac-
tically universal in scientific circles that the
question of soil fertility was wholly a chemi-
cal one. When a chemist had completed an
analysis, whether of a sample of soil or of
a fertiliser, he believed the last word had
been said on the subject. Sir A. I). Hall,
F R.S. in the latest edition of his standard
textbook, “The Soil,” says: “Fertility proper
is by no means wholly a chemical question,
dependent upon the amount of plant foods
the soil contains. In many cases the physical
conditions which regulate the supply of air
and water to the soil, and as a corollary to
the bacterial life, are far more potent in
producing fertility than the mere amount of
nutritive matter.” This scientist experimented
upon a sample of ordinary soil by forcing
bisulphide of carbon gas through it. Subse-
quent bacterial examination showed that tins
gas had an antiseptic action in cleansing
the soil from protozoa and fungoid germs,
hut it did not injure the azobacteria, whose
function it is to secrete nitrogen in the soil,
exactly in the form needed for plant work.
The result of this antiseptic cleansing of
the soil was to give the nitrifying bacteria
a free field for multiplication. During a
subsequent period of two months the number
of those beneficent organisms increased
sixty-fold, with a marked growth in available
nitrogenous plant food.
Sir A. D. Hall says: “The extraordinary
increase in the fertility of the soil which
can be brought about in laboratory experi-
ments cannot but give rise to visions of a
vastly greater production to be obtained
from land under cultivation.” For the treat-
ment of soil on a field scale what is needed
is something volatile enough to be effective
against the protozoa, yet retentive enough
to attain its full effect in the soil. A water-
soluble combination 9f sulphur and carbon
comes very near the ideal soil antiseptic.
The success or failure of any synthetic
fertiliser must in the long run depend on
the effect produced by its use on the bac-
terial life of the soil, and a soil wherein
the natural beneficent bacteria have become
devitalised can only produce weak plants
which fall an easy prey to every form of
disease. Ordinary commercial fertilisers play
a small part in restoring nitrogen to the
soil in comparison with the work done by
the nitrifying bacteria, which replenish in-
stead of exhaust the nitrogen of the soil.
The presence of vigorous azobacteria in
the soil is absolutely essential to healthy
plant life. By the methods generally adopted
in the past we have systematically starved
our invisible helpers, the azobacteria, or
nitrifying bacteria, and we must turn from
the chemical to the bacteriological viewpoint.
Some advanced agriculturists are inoculat-
ing their soils with a scientifically-prepared
culture of nitrifying bacteria in a state of
suspended animation. This preparation when
placed in the soil, and provided with warmth,
moisture and food, immediately commences
its work. Results exceeding expectations
have been obtained, and the whole business
is well worth watching.
LIVER FLUKE.
“Azac”: An undignified scramble has
commenced in connection with the new cure
(carbon tetrachloride) for liver fluke in
sheep. Dr. Burton Bradley claims to have
overcome what he considers the greatest diffi-
culty, viz., “the dangers associated with the
administration of carbon tetrachloride,
which drug is a powerful poison if inhaled
into the lungs. He is now able, he says, “to
offer a preparation of the drug which can
be used with safety.” The other party in
the scramble is Dr. Seddon, of the Depart-
ment of Agriculture’s Veterinary Research
Station at Glenfield; a detailed account of
bis work there with the cure was handed to
the Sydney press within 48 hours ot the
publication of Dr. Bradley’s claims.
The true position is that experiments with
this cure had reached such a stage, in Eng-
land 12 months ago that veterinarian Mont-
gomerie was able to recommend the use ot
carbon tetrachloride as efficacious and cheap,
and for convenience of administration he
claimed that it far excelled male-fern extract
and other cures.
Dr. Seddon’s work at Glenfield rather
confirmed the work done in England, Ireland
and America than contributed anything
original. Montgomerie showed that a dose
of one cubic centimetre was most effective, and
this Dr. Seddon confirmed. Montgomerie
administered the drug in a gelatine capsule,
and the only thing against such form is
that it is a little dearer than the paraffin-
drench method, and more difficult to give.
In this country, at least, the most econo-
mical way of giving the drug is to mix one
part of carbon tetrachloride with four parts
of paraffin, given by the month with an
ordinary hypodermic syringe without the
needle. Don’t use kerosene instead of par-
affin. No doubt the mixing of the drug with
paraffin was suggested by the fact that that
is the best way to give male-fern extract—
the previous best fluke cure.
What will please sheepowners most is that,
instead of treating “fluky” sheep at about
7d. per head, they can do the job better with
the carbon tetrachloride capsules for Id., or
one-tliird of a penny if the paraffin method
is employed. . ,
The treatment gives no immunity from
further attacks, but will remove all the flukes
from the sheep within a few days. It will
be found necessary, therefore, to treat
“fluky” sheep from time to time to keep
them free, and this should not be such a
hardship now that the new cure is so much
cheaper.
wool-sa£b~lot¥plitting.
“Jumbuck” : Lot-splitting by operators on
the wool market has rankled in the minds ot
sheepmen for years. It is never pleasant to
reflect that one's wool might have brought
even penny per lb. more had the buyers
been opposed to each other in bidding tor it.
But as with most of our ills its effects
have been much exaggerated. Statements
have been made that up to 6d. per lb. is
lost to owners through the practice; but it
is pretty certain that the speculators who
attend the auctions in numbers could never
resist the temptation to purchase lots that
changed hands at even 3d. under value.
Selling brokers have done all they con-
sider is in their power. They will invoice
a lot to only one buyer and will accept pay-
ment and make of a lot to only that
buyer. It is questionable if an Act ot Far-
liament could do more, for splitting is a
most difficult matter to prove. The law might
be charged with interference with the liberty
of the subject if it attempted to tell a pur-
chaser what he could and could not do witn
wool once he had paid for it.
Exaggeration also creeps in regarding the
number of lots split. Seventy per cent, lias
been quoted. Under 15 p.c., perhaps under
10 p.c., is nearer the mark. Is any auction
conducted without ' understandings among
bidders to that degree? Certainly sheep-
owners are offenders themselves when they
bid at country stock sales. Can any person
find means to ent.rely stop it?
BEAN AND POLLARD AS FODDER.
“Coola”: Pollard is a suitable. food for
stock only when it is well mixed with water.
Given dry it is far too absorbent and may
easily cause impaction. Last year, a farmer
on the southern tableland of N.S.W. lost
two draught-horses, and blamed bot-flies.
Local vets., however, seeking for the cause,
definitely found pollard caked in folds of the
stomach in such a way that a large quantity
of moisture was required to remove it. Even
bran is too absorbent to be fed to animals
dry, unless mixed with good chaff. The
supply of saliva is not sufficient for the
thorough moistening of the dry flakes. There
is not the danger of clogging that goes with
pollard, but too much bran has a laxative
effect that prevents animals making good
progress. Their condition should be carefully
watched when bran is fed.
CONCRETE TOSTS.
“.Bad Australian” : There can be no ques-
tion as to the strength and durability of
concrete fencing-posts if they are properly
made. They offer an effective resistance to
bush-fires and dry rot as well as mineral
salts in the soil which cause more or less
rapid destruction of iron posts. They put
the white ant and kindred borers out of
business at the first call, and nothing less
than a runaway steam-roller or a herd of
wild elephants in full career could damage
them.
Away back in 1909 I saw a section of rail-
road constructed in white-ant country in
South America where everything, including
bridge piers and abutments, culverts, re-
taining-walls, buildings, sleepers and fence.
telegraph and other posts, was made of con-
crete. Even the tombstones and occasional
memorial crosses erected over the men who
had been knifed, shot, blown up or died were
—and had to be —constructed of the same
material. The telegraph-posts were re-
inforced with rodding, but this was omitted
in the case of the fencing-posts; nevertheless
during ten years’ observation of the section,
the only deterioration I noticed in any of the
concrete work was caused through the failure
of sleepers under occasional derailments of
heavy freight waggons.
MATING UP YOUR POULTRY.
“Practical”: The mating up of the breed-
ing-pens each vear is a most important item
in the poultry-yard if one is progressive and
wants next year’s returns to outstrip the
present record. In fact, success in the
poultry business depends on vour knowledge
of the various characteristics of your stock
and the way you mate your flock birds in
order to fulfil your mission—egg-production,
table meat, or both. In this direction nothing
is more helpful than a few single testing-
pens into which you can place your most
promising millets, keeping a record of the
number and size of all eggs laid. Size is
becoming a very important factor, and our
very existence as exporters will, I think,
eventually hinge on this.
When any one of these selected pullets has
excelled in' both numbers and size of eggs
laid, use the cockerels hatched from her
eggs in your matings, thus helping to develop
her character in the young pullets sired by
these cockerels. It is not altogether neces-
sary to use record-scoring birds for mating;
other considerations are vitality and stamina.
For instance, a solid, steady layer with the
latter points firmly established is, as a rule,
a much better stud hen than a brilliant,
highly strung, nervy record layer; her stock
usually develons better, and her eggs hatch
a much better percentage of strong, robust
chicks. It is a sound rule to use only liens
of good body growth and development for
stud birds, the nearer to your ideal of the
breed they represent the better; pass over
all flat-sided, narrow, shallow birds—they
are usually failures, no matter what their
laying record is; and see that they have good
feathering for their breed, with bold, fiery eyes.
Finally, see that they have good color
throughout their headpiece. This usually
denotes good health, and, no matter how you
test your stock, unless it has health all your
work will be in vain.
WHY DOES A HEN CACKLE?
“Momokeni”: “E.S.” (B. 26/5/’2T) is
wrong in thinking that the cackling of a hen
after egg-laying is an acquired habit. It
is a relic of jungle days, when the hen,
after separating from the others to lay
her egg in her secluded nest,. cackled to
ascertain their whereabouts, being answered
by her lord and master the cock.
'ln the secluded valleys of the . Hydro-
graphers Range, north-eastern division ol
Papua, the nearest approach to the primitive
in hens may still be found in the native
villages. It‘is a breed totally free from the
taint of the “white man’s hen” —usually
i-i Papua the White Leghorn. These primi-
tive fowls are supposed to be of Malay ori-
gin and are bantam-like in size. The hen
is a uniform dark-brown, whilst. the cock
boasts of all the colors of the rainbow, to- 1
getlier with a sweeping tail not unlike the
Yokohama. These village hens are cannier
than their more civilised relations, for they
wait until they are some distance from the
nest before they cackle their “Where are
you?” and so give small brown boys little
opportunity to rifle it.
SHEEP’S TEETH.
“R Mort”: Judging by what goes on in
the saleyards, there are still a few people
left who believe that a jumbuck is as old as
its teeth. As a matter of hard fact, no reli-
ance can be placed on this method of esti-
mating a sheep’s age, such things as climate,
constitution and feed making a tremendous
difference in dentition. Frequently in a
flock of the same lambing there will be such
a marked variation in the development ot
the teeth that, going by those alone, one
would say there was six months between
some of the animals.
Sheep reared in a moist, warm climate,
where there is abundance of lush pasture,
develop much more rapidly than those bred
under less favorable conditions. A 22-montli-
old animal, nominally a rising 4-tooth, from
the Western district of Victoria, will often
be so forward as to have a second. pair of
lateral incisors showing, thus crediting it-
self with an extra eight months of life.
Again, sheep depastured on bare, gritty soil
soon show premature signs of worn teeth,
and a tliree-year-old, judged by teeth only,
might very well be suspected of being at
least twice that age. On the other hand,
aged sheep running on rich grass land fre-
quently have a perfect set of molars up to
eight or nine years. It is when such animals
appear in the saleyard that the man who
puts his trust in ivories gets badly stung.
CINCTURING VINES.
“Bendoc” : I disagree with those who say
that the beneficial result of the cincturing
of currant-vines is due to the cut preventing
the too rapid rush of sap up the plant. The
result, I believe, is to prevent the sap being
driven back from the young laterals by hoi
winds or extremely hot weather, the laterals
being very susceptible to heat. When sap
is thus driven back the young berries drop
off for want of moisture. The cincturing
holds the sap in the laterals because in vines
the sap travels up in the centre of the main
stem, and returns to earth between the bark
and the wood, exactly the opposite to most
forms of vegetation. This also accounts for
the failure of the cincturing to kill the vine,
the young bark again growing over the
cinctured part in a month or two. In the
Goulburn Valley (Vic.) irrigation areas,
where the practice lias been followed for
over 30 years, the grower of currants who
neglected it —and there are a few prejudiced
vignerons—was always a loser in any season
in which hot winds or long spells of heat
were prevalent.
POISONING V. RINGBARKING.
“Taliarangi”: I should like to issue a
warning to anyone who is tempted by
“Waimea’s” par. (B. 19/5/'27) rc poisoning
trees when rinfebarking, as it is liable to
get people into trouble, especially where the
country is really hard to kill. I watched
the progress of experiments on stnngybark
peppermint, red-gum and box. About hall
a dozen pear-killers and other poisons were
used. In every case the tops of the trees
died very quickly, and suckering was de-
layed ; but when the suckers did come, they
were ominously low down. In one case,
where a patent weed-killer was used, there
was no appearance of suckers for 12 months;
so the owner of the property, satisfied that
he had solved the problem, treated a large
paddock at a cost of about 10s. per acre.
It is fortunate that lie is a rich man, for
every tree in the experimental plot eventually
suckered from the root, and the cost ot kill-
ing out the paddock will be more than tin.
land is worth. Experiments are still being
carried out on this property, as the owner
is an enterprising and determined man, bur
I have not heard that any of the acids or
corrosives employed has a success;
and I strongly advise anyone who is thinking
of taking “Waimea’s” tip to make very care-
ful trials before adopting the treatment on
a large scale. Accessible suckers on the
bole of the tree are a nuisance and an ex-
pense, but underground suckers are pure
sheol.
THE DRIED-FRUITS INDUSTRY.
“Croesus” : The burden of my remarks (B.
14/4/’27) on the dried-fruits industry was
(1) that it was partly unsound and required
bolstering up; (2) that overproduction
being the main trouble, a decrease in pro-
duction by the substitution of other crops
and attention to side-lines was called tor,
and (3) that further Government assistance
should be given only on the condition that
the industry does more for itself.
“K.K.” (B. 19/5/’27) seems to disagre,
with me, but really strengthens the case I
made out. He gives no single reason why
the unpayable raisins and currants should
not have payable crops substituted tor them.
Admitting that the varieties are unpayable,
he still objects that “they are not so urn
payable that we should root them out.
Well, they bring less than the cost of pro-
duction, and any crop that gets into the
habit of returning 19s. lid. for every 11
put into it should, in my judgment receive
a large ■ slice of discontinuance —unless its
future prospects are more rosy, and Tv.lv
supplies no reason to make us think that.
He traverses my contention that payable
crops should be substituted by the bald state-
ment that the substitute crops would cause a
bigger loss. As if there is no conceivable
crop that can be grown profitably on those
‘ircas
On' my remark that growr-. might even
produce a little of the districts fodder
“K.K.” comments that it would cost twic
as much as chaff grown outside. But lodder
may consist of maize or lucerne, both excel-
lent crops under irrigation. „
“One libel on the industry, says K.K..
“is the statement that the Australian con-
sumer pays the grower excessive prices for
dried fruits.” If it is a libel Iv.K. does not
disprove it by his delightful non seqmtur
that, if the Australian price were reduced,
the consumption would not increase. As .
knows, the Australian consumer pays a very
much higher price for dried fruit than t n
English consumer does for the same, tiui
after it has been more expensively freighted
and handled. That being so, where is the
hb The majority of the older growers disdain
to keep a pig, or even a cow, or to
pick the olives from their existing trees or
to grow a little fodder or a few vegetable-
or often to bother marketing their pears m
peaches. The idea that became prevalent
in the short boom period of the war vas


'//&&
CHAFFCUTTERS
Patent Self-feeder.
Improved Non-choking Mouth. Cannot be Excelled for
Sample in Hay.
SPECIALLY ADAPTED FOR LUCERNE, CLOVER
AND RYE GRASS.
Adjustable mouthplates. Automatic Pressure.
Installed on Government Farms in N.S.W., Vic. and S.A.
TRAVELLING, STATIONARY BLOWERS,
8, 10-, 12 inch mouth.
SAW BENCHES, IRON FRAME.
MANURE SPREADERS.
Sole Representatives of Bamford’s “English’’ Spreaders—Makers to the King.
MAYNE & WHITE PTY., LTD., Emerald Street, Colling wood, Melbourne.
è
HOLDS sof o MORE INK
Onoto, the Pen, has for years been the busy man’s pen. The
ease with which it fi!h> and cleans itself, its readiness to write when-
ever wanted, its absolute security from leakage, and the fact that it
holds 50 per cent, more ink than any other self-filling pen, has
gained for Onoto, the Pen, the first place.
THOMAS HE LA RUE & CO. LTD.
110 Bunhill Row, London, E.C. 1.
Representatives: Norman Baker* Lonsjtmrst
50 York Street. Sydney.
ONOTO INK—Best for all Pens.
é
BUILD WITH
udestos
SAVE time and money by using
Durabestos (the Wunderlich asbestos-
cement) to line the Exterior and
Interior Walls of your Home. Avail-
able in big, rigid Sheets cheaper
than wood linings easily fixed
cannot burn nor rot. You can obtain
Durabestos Sheets from your
local supplier of building
materials. Send to us for
samples, and free booklet D. 4
WUNDERLICH LTD.
Baptist Street, Redfern, Sydney
Offset the hazards of
the road ahead
POOR roads hold no terrors for the driver
of the motor car or truck equipped
with Weed Tyre Chains.
He knows that no delays, inconveniences
or accidents will be experienced as a
result of slipping, spinning or skid-
ding wheels— because Weed Tyre
Chains Grip and Hold.
In mud, sand, clay or snow and on
wet slippery roads, they assure pos-
itive traction and maximum safety.
Weed Tyre Chains are made for all
tyres. They are easily identified by
their brass plated hardened steel
cross chains—galvanized side chains
and red lever locking connecting
hooks with the name Weed”plainly
stamped on them. Order from
your dealer.
AMERICAN CHAIN COMPANY, Inc.
New York, N. Y., U. S. A.
Weed de Luxa
Pattern
Foremost in quality for more than 20 years »
WEED TYRE CHAINS
The Man on the Land
that all a man had to do to enjoy life was
to buy 15 acres of vines (and always a
car as a necessary complement), let some-
body else do the work, and live luxuriously
on the proceeds. The districts have never
thoroughly discarded that idea.
TANK-SILOS.
“Peter P.”: “Y. Worry” advises us to use
galvanised-iron tank-silos costing £5O and
capable of storing 500 to 600 bags of fodder-
oats. Speaking generally, tank-silos are the
best; but they must be shedded. If wholly
exposed to the sun when full of grain they
expand, the grain inside taking up the dis-
placement. When the temperature recedes
at night time the tank-silo contracts. Expan-
sion and contraction repeating itself, the
grain in the silo becomes a solid. Further,
the silo, becoming affected by this expansion
and contraction, soon allows the air in. Put
a shed over and around it and save all this.
TAR-BRANDING.
“.T.D.C.”: In this tar-br anding discussion
we have got things to a pretty fine point.
The evidence seems to be that, as practised
in Australia, it doesn’t do much, if any,
serious damage; and if it’s any real use
to us we might as well practise it. I say
that it is no real use.
On a cattle-camp the stockman works from
behind the beast; therefore a conspicuous
brand on or about the rump is necessary.
The man on the sheep-drafting gate works
from in front, and needs the earmark only;
by the time the brand comes in view it is
too late to swing the gate without striking
or blocking the sheep. Certainly when the
earmark is at the back of the ear, or too
near the butt, there is difficulty in drafting
full-woolled sheep, but there is greater diffi-
culty in designating age and sex by a partly-
obliterated tar-brand. The tar-brand isn’t
necessary,. and is not a reliable method of
identification. Why not do without it?
“PINK-EYE.”
“Anthony Gloster”; “Saaedi” says “pink-
eye ’ is chiefly to be seen in a good season
(B. 2/,6/’27). I think this must be due to
grass-seed irritation, for I believe that pink-
eye is due to a germ which, like that of
human tuberculosis, is always present, and
will take, hold if there is any weakness or
predisposition. We had a bad outbreak of
it last spring, after a mob of infected sheep
(travellers) had been through the paddocks,
and checked it by isolating all cases at the
earlie.st momfent possible and giving treatment.
In mild cases a single administration of eye-
drops would clear up the affection. Some
cases were more stubborn, but eventually
yielded to treatment. We had a small pro-
portion of cases which did not recover, but
these kept their condition when held in a
small cultivation paddock where they could
not lose each other. This was towards the
end of last year’s drought and the season
was very bad. *
GRAIN SILOS FOR THE FARM.
. I Y. Worry”: In the erection of a galvan-
lsed-iron silo for grain there’s no need to
employ an expert. Buy the iron curved
and the necessary bolts, and any handy-man
can do the job. If it is for oats, have an
emptying shoot on each side, because oats
run badly. Build the silo high enough
from the ground that, bags or trucks can be
filled at the shoot; it will save time and
temper.
But how to keep weevils and other insect
pests out of stored maize or wheat I do
not know.. The N.S.W. Agricultural Depart-
ment advises keeping the ' silos airtight—
which is easier said than done. Has anyone
tried the experiment of running perforated
pipes through the silos and pumping in occa-
sionally a charge of poison gas?
?:v-.
HINTS FOR THE FARM.
“Prop”: I bought a young mare that had
apparently been broken with a whip, as the
sound of one or even suggestion of one was
enough to start her going backwards. My
Plan was to carry a pocketful of oats,
which, being an unaccustomed ration, always
surprised her into a walk, soon coaxed into
a run. One day I ran out of oats and in
desperation opened the mare’s mouth and
threw in a handful of dirt off the road. The
result was just the same. In fact. I think
she stepped a bit higher.
“Clarenza”: Most fruit-trees, and especi-
ally stone fruits in moist, warm areas, ar*
inclined to develop wood and suckers at the
expense of fruit. This is particularly the
case if pruning is neglected; but even the
most vigorous pruning will not ensure a
good fruit crop. In such cases cincturing
is advisable. Bind a strong ligature round
mi e - tru T!v' , or °, nR roiln( I each main branch.
This will, by checking the flow 7 of sap, stop
the tendency to rank wood-growth, and re-
sult m larger and better crops of fruit.
Paul C. : J. McG.’s” method of throw-
ing and tying up a bull for operation needs
corroboration. From experience and obser-
vation I reckon that when the half-hitch was
placed round the animal’s loins and pulled
on, it would have the effect of making the
beast go bounding across the yard w r ith
J. McG.” dangling powerless at the end of
the rope.
W.P.D.” : Subterranean clover needs a tem-
perate climate with a rainfall of between
25 and 40 inches a year, and a long winter
between the. autumn rains and the hot. dry
season; it is benefited by plenty of phos-
phatic fertiliser. In South Queensland it
ought to have a chance on the high lands
from Boonah to Gympie and on the lower
levels of the Macpherson Range. The coun-
try around Beaudesert and Canungra should
be suitable. The plant is certainly worth
trying m Queensland.
“R.M.K.” : Have vou tried a mixture of
sulphur and new milk for a pig with swine-
fever? If he is too sick to take it. just pour
it down his throat. I have never seen it
fail.
“Momokeni”: “J.8.C.” (B. 26/5/’27)
reed not have waited 20 years until his
cherry-tree blew over .to make it bear fruit.
Root-pruning, by diggihg a deep trench close
round the tree and cutting through the
spreading "roots with a sharp spade, would
have effected the same purpose and pro-
duced a sightlier tree. English plum-trees
are frequent offenders in this respect, grow-
ing for years without setting fruit.
“Hack”: From a long experience of ring-
bone I am convinced that in the early stages
a blister will do good by preventing the for-
mation of a bony deposit; when, however,
a bony growth has formed, the chances are
10 to 1 against a blister having any effect.
“Bar K.”: Lucerne-chaff is valuable feed
for brood-sows off litter, and before being
put to the boar. Sows should be lean at
this time if big litters are desired, and pol-
lard should be used sparingly until the lady
is a few weeks off farrowing, when the ration
can be increased gradually. A sow should
never be heavily fed for a day or so before
and after parturition, but should have plenty
of clean water available, and all food should
be of an opening nature.
IS THIS THE CHAMPION ?
“Bad Australian”: I was called on pro-
fessionally to measure an irregular-shaped
plot of land in a bend of a mountain creek
which flowed into the Broken River (Vic.).
The area proved to be If acres, from which
the owner had just harvested a fraction over
•‘>l tons of white-elephant potatoes and
about four tons of pumpkins. The majority
of the tubers, although exceptionally large,
were sound, but irregular in shape and very
knobby, while a small percentage showed
a small, Hat, clean hollow in the centre,
After the potatoes were taken off, the land
was ploughed and sown with sparrow-bill
oats. The crop was intended for hay, and
about double the ordinary quantity of seed
was used, as it was considered that with
the regular seeding the hay would be too
rank and reedy. The result was a dense
crop about 4ft. high, which headed out in
such a surprising manner that it was
allowed to ripen instead of being cut. for
hay as originally intended. The clean-up
gave 46 bags of exceptionally heavy first-
class oats and a small percentage of seconds.
Both crops were grown in one year under
ordinary rainfall and natural conditions of
soil.
If any propagator of Australian parritch
and potatoes has seen a better yield of
either or both I would like him to put his
figures on record.
TREE-PLANTING IN WESTERN VIC.
“Leo Lear” : The big landholders of West-
ern Vic. have been kicked and cuffed for sins
of omission and commission, but in one direc-
tion at least they deserve nothing but praise.
While the greater part of the. population
have. been chopping, ringing, grubbing and
burning any timber within reach, the West-
erners have planted and planted. Originally
their undulating wind-swept volcanic plain
was devoid of timber, except along the
watercourses. Now it is dotted and lined
with plantations, many of them miles long
and covering acres. The favorites are
sugar-gums and mahogany-gums, though
many other eucalypts as well as wattles
are in use. In the southern portions
pines and other imported trees —elms,
poplars, willows—grow luxuriantly. The
country round Lismore has been made as
beautitul as any pastoral scene in Australia.
Nearly all the timber-belts have been sown
broadcast, and the rapidity of growth in the
eucalypts is .amazing. Many of the planta-
tions are being cut for firewood, but this
is not the end of them, for the stumps
sprout into fresh growth as readily as
prickly-pear round Chinchilla.
DEMAND PEDIGREE TREES!
“Penfield”: As “Poncirus” very truly said
(B. 26/5/’27), there are pedigree fruit-trees
just as there are pedigree bulls. But it’s
astonishing with how little care trees are
chosen. And more astonishing with how-
little care young trees are propagated. Many
a settler on the Murrumbidgee irrigation area
lias, for instance, had cause to curse the
stock supplied him —years of some men’s
lives have been wasted. And even now 7 the
Commission will guarantee nothing. A fruit-
grower in Goulburn Valley (Vic.) some time
ago told .T. M. Ward, the State’s Superin-
tendent of Horticulture, that for several
years he had growrn his own trees worked
from carefully-selected buds; and the result
was that his orchard was averaging him
nearly 30 tons of peaches per acre p.a.,
whereas the district average is under four
tons.
“Bendee”: Teeth troubles in horses not
only lead to kicking (B. 26/5/'27), but are
often the cause of a horse acquiring the
bad habit of biting or snapping in harness,
especially when the vice appears only as
the horse ages. After watching so many
horses which, though otherwise quiet, are
cranky “on the bit,” I suspect that a prad
may receive a galvanic current through some
metal bits, in the same way that we can
get a shock with certain acid juices on metal
fillings in teeth.
* * * *
“Trepex”: The British Wool Federation
has recently growled about pieces of skin
attached to the wool. From comment and
inquiry, I understand that quite as much
wool is sorted out for this objectionable
feature as because of tar-brands. Westralia
seems to be the worst offender.
* * * *
“Patiti”: Spadger’s concrete posts (B.
39/5/’27) must be made at a cheese factory
if the rubbing of a sheep against them cause's
them to snap off at the base. On H. I.
Gidney’s Lima station (N.-E. Vic.), thou-
sands of them are to be seen, and they do
their job. Of course they are reinforced.
* * * *
“Canar”: A friend of mine on the North
Coast of N. S. Wales had three fine milkers
which acquired the practice of drinking their
own milk and could not be broken of it.
Examination of their udders showed that
near the tip of each teat was a number of
small, black patches; these, when examined
microscopically, proved to consist of a vari-
ety of fungus which had attached itself to the
skin of the teat. Evidence pointed to the
infection having been acquired in a paddock
used by the animals. After the udders had
been treated with an antiseptic solution
the self-sucking ceased.


SPEED
#
<r- -»
Now Saltbush Bill was a drover tough as ever the country knew.
He had fought his way on the Great Stock Routes from the sea to the big
Barcoo; •
He could tell when he came to a friendly riin that gave him 1 a change to.
spread,
And he knew where the hungry owners were that hurried his sheep. ahead;
He was drifting down in the Eighty drought with a mob that could scarcely
creep, /' • ' _ ••;••• .V
(When the kangaroos by the thousands starve, it is rough on die travelling
sheep) ....
BANJO’'. . PATERSON.
\W
Si
v Ax
pv
•v- \.ft v-'A x . v
CV x i x
;V • ■'• Hv >•:■•• v v ftxv
pr x
*S>" X
ip
&KSSS®
PI
ip s.y ..^vx^
IM . : f ■ •■*
:s Si g gfftl * < g«| ft ' ""
•M
\
ftl
ftp.
''P>',
Pv.X
;p.
.V
X &
>;•
ft 1
* X'
"V
lift
l v v.
V" v . • 'vy? \ x 1 P ;s\::.~
flt \ \V; §|\ V ft s , >;*
Xp v' x x i x
\\ x \lV '
v 'V J W
;'ft' \T
Xx
X-, v,.gc-:->'"' W"'"X : «
V. % '■'vlx \ >
X XX X X -
1' If JSrX ;
xXpiSX
- ' \X c?
xXxXx' .. , •••
NP\\>"‘"nV ‘ V.Pn s
V,
vrr
/
AGENTS:
REO MOTORS, LTD.,
171-175 William Street, Sydney.
CANADA MOTOR & CYCLE CO., LTD.,
Creek and Adelaide Streets, Brisbane.
QUEENSBRIDGE MOTORS PTY., LTD.,
Queensbridge Square, Melbourne.
REO MOTOR SALES, LTD.,
Franklin Street, Adelaide.


OLS
<<y
I /
/
/
m
m
USCi
rcacj,
pr
L'.Lwmm
Ij i i
V'Zi
s
i
>#.l- X/ ;fi
: ! i?n
Sv ''> '' \ ' < •>> f
II
I
iW,,
' V - '
'V < , ' ' .
, *
N*. • if'
mm
i ///.
U<
,y f \> '
: ~ >» ' ' i
sas
mm
m&m
$p
m
r m
i
./ A,A
>:-:->:*:*y
M
il
ppiij
I®
WAGON
/ V /
/ //. /< y ./
//.
//
out.
Tlibse old heroic days .are, dead and their memones fast fa
/
' But a new romance appears as still fight the yearsrof droug
/For an engine throbs apd thp sheepman grins to wish us t
best of luck
yAnd we race
lck.
upgty brought, in
Z'y// ■> B. A.


Mere words cannot express
their Infinite superiority*
Army Club
lO for 9d. CIGARETTES 20 for 1/6
In pure ribbed watermarked paper.
CAVANDERS Ltd.. London (Est. 1775), Pioneers of Hygienic Cigarette Packing.
V.
m
i
CORK
TIPPED
or PLAIN
SMOKE-OH!
With most women the matter of diet is
one of weight.
Dentists are often dowoi in the mouth,
but they come up smiling.
If w T e don’t believe in women doing men’s
work why do we marry them?
Fashionable firms are now preparing
destriptive lists for the spring.
Some women are bold enough to wear
dresses to the knee; others are above it.
In the new ideas that blind us
E’renzied haste is deemed sublime:
Nowadays we leave behind us
Car-tracks on the sands of time.
Besides being a supreme artist Melba is
a wonderful business woman ; but it is not
true that iier new G.B.E. means Gold Bag-
ging Expert.
STICKING TO THE SCRIPTURES.
“My dear , you should put away your
riches where moth cannot destroy nor
thieves break in and steal.”
“But I do. I’ve had these furs in cold
storage all the summer.”
MYSTERY!
Butcher Brown’s shop is shut and his blinds
are down.
Is he sleeping the sleep that knows no
waking?
No ! Those are the signs that Mr. Brown
Is putting in time at sausage-making!
victoria. E. T.
Red-hot favorites give bookmakers cold '
sweats.
Girls wear but little here below, nor wear
that little long.
* *
Many a man has finished up stony through
being a brick to his cobbers. ;
v *
Most men believe in love at first sight—
until they have a second look.
* *
Marriage begins with a promise and usu-
ally ends with a compromise.
After all, this generation is very farsee-
ing in the matter of flappers’ dresses.
*
Dr. Mazaryk has been elected President
of the Czecho-Slavs. On recent form in
Sydney, what they want is a goal-kicker.
* *
The politician asked his wife,
“My dear, when I depart this life,
What stone d’you think they’ll give me?”
Ilis shrewish partner said, said she:
“I don’t know what they’ll do, my own,
But lots say you deserve brimstone.”
* *
Woman drove man out of Eden, but she
is gradually letting him get an idea of what
the fashions of the place were like.
*
There is all the difference in the world
between those who give according to their
means and those who giye according to their
meanness.
* *
American prohibitionists deplore the fact
that the'country has consumed 250,000,000
gallons of liquor since prohibition began. A
case of “I want to be good, but the galls,
won’t let me.”
* *
Very many telephone girls leave the ser-
vice to get married, and the numbers that
are engaged whenever you inquire about
them make the average business man as mad
as a mullah.
*
America’s new Trade Commissioner to
Australia says his country’s attitude to ours
is one of cordial interest. Spirits, wines and
beer also come into the question, of course.
“Dux”: The new publican had early
earned a reputation for meanness, and when
trade was slack he did nothing but groan
about hard times. To make things worse
he candidly admitted that he “felt crook.”
“I know r what’s the matter with you,” re-
marked Bummer Bill; “you’ve got yaws.”
“What the li—l is yaws?” snarled Bung.
“A pint,” replied Bill, briskly, pushing his
empty handle across the bar.
“G.N.” : “I never told yer about me goin’
campin’ once, did IV" asked old Dan. “It was
pretty rotten takin’ it all round, but it wus
that time I made me record catcb. It wus
like this. They kidded me inter goin', tellin’
me it ’d be a change frum the tishin’ down
’ere, and’ yer could catch Murray cod that
it ’d take two men to lift, besides plenty o'
wild-duck shootin’ an’ all that. So I takes
it; on. But after a coupler nights tryin’ lo
sleep with stones pokin’ holes in yer ribs
an’ ants crawlin’ over yer, I begins ter reckon
the game wus gettin’ up ter putty an' I
made up me mind to turn it in. Nex'
day I leaves them to the tishin’ and
sets off down the river with the only
gun in the camp, an ole muzzle-loader,
ter see if I couldn’t do a bit better
in the shootin’ line, though I’d never fired a
gun in me life. I plants meself in a good
possie on the bank, loads ’er up with powder
an’ shot, an’ waits. I’d bin there a fair
while when I sights six or seven ducks pad-
dlin’ down ; an’ when they gets close enough
I ups with the gun, shuts both eyes, an’ lets
bang. She kicks like blazes, an’ when I
gets sight o’ things again, all I can see is
one duck flounderin’ over an’ over, goin’
down an’ cornin’ up. I slides down the
bank an’ grabs ’im, an’ finds ’e’s pretty
’eavy. An’ then I’m struck speechless. When
I fired I’d forgot ter take the ramrod outer
the gun, an’ it ’ad gone clean through the
only duck I’d ’it, an’ skewered through the
other end of it wus the finest Murray cod
ever bin caught in that districk. It took
me all me time to lift ’im outer the water,
an’ yer should ’ave seen the dials o’ the
others when I lands back with a cod, a duck,
an’ a ’are. Where’d I get the ’are? Oh, I
sat on ’im when the gun knocked me ’ead
over tip.”
BACK BEYOND HIS RECOLLECTION.
“When did you say yon were born?”
“I dun no. I think I was too young to
remember.”
THE BRIDGE-BABY’S ALPHABET.
A is the Ass who will never lead trumps,
B is the Booster who’s begging for bumps.
C is tlic Carper who curses his pard.
1) is tlic Dummy who finds silence hard.
E is tlic Ease with which some people play,
F’s the Finesse that will not go our way.
G is the Grouser —the mis’rable sinner !
H is the Highbrow who scorns the beginner.
I is the Instinct we all wish we had,
,7 is our Joy when opponents go mad.
K is the “King twice” —the thinnest of guards.
I, is the Lady who launders her cards.
M is the Mess we can make of a hand,
N’s the No-trump that will not. go as planned.
() is the Over-trick, doublers’ despair;
I* is for Polcerbridge—players, take care!
Q is the Queen bare, who oftentimes makes;
R is the Rubber one gleefully takes.
S is the Slam that we mark down with pride ;
T is the Temper that won’t be denied.
U is the Uuderc-all —oh, what a fool!
V is the Virtue of Robertson’s Rule.
W’s the Woman who won’t play in silence.
X are the Xcellent Xcuses for vi’lence.
Y are the Yarboroughs, hopeless to play,
Z is this Zany, who bids you good-day.
VICTORIA.
MOLLY M.
THE NEW ROAD.
They reeled along the new-made, road
With skid and swerve and spasm,
They heard another tyre explode,
Then capsized down a chasm.
Once more they essayed to propel
The ’bus through bush and gully.
A passenger exclaimed, “It’s Hell!”
The driver answered dully:
“It’s worse than Hell" —lie swayed and
rolled
With further apprehensions—
“At least Hell’s blanky roads, I'm told,
• Are paved—with good intentions.”
victoria.
GANESHA.
THE ABSENT-MINDED TRAVELLER.
“Talking of jewellers,” said Billy Tru-
feld, “did I ever tell you about Alby Traves-
ton when he was travelling for Sparkles,
the Brisbane jewellers?”
With all eyes on him, Billy tapped out his
pipe, filled it, lit it and exhaled huge clouds.
“Alby was the most absent-minded chap
I’ve ever known —one day he rang up his
house to keep an appointment with him-
self. At the time I’m speaking of he was
travelling Central with some pretty valu-
able trinkets. It was the largest lot he’d
ever taken, and he’d made up his mind not
to let his absent-mindedness beat him.
“By the time he’d arrived at Rockhamp-
ton on his way home he’d sold most of his
stock, although lie still had a couple of dozen
rings left, a few loose stones picked up
Anakie way, and a necklet worth probably
150.
“As soon as Alby reached his pub he locked
his satchel in the wardrobe and went down-
stairs. They made a rather jovial night of
it. and he forgot all about his valuables,
whose safety depended on a frail wardrobe-
lock and the honesty of the world.
“Their existence was recalled to him when
lie went up to bed and found the wardrobe
unlocked and as empty as the Synagogue
on Cup Day. Of course he kicked, and the
hotel people sent for the police. They turned
the place upside down—and then found the
bag in the wardrobe of the room next to
Alby’s. Alby had merely gone into the
wrong room, that was all. Still, the hotel-
keeper was rather nasty about it and the
police weren’t in the best of humors —and
then the commotion started all over again.
Alby opened his bag and found it as inno-
cent of jewellery as a babe is of vice. The
proprietor tore liis hair and the police were
called again, but not a trace of the missing
articles could be found.
“The next day Alby wrote to his principals
explaining' the position and saying that In 1
liad no chance of making good the value
and did not feel he could face them. Then
lie caught the Longreacli mail and set out to
lose himself in the West.
“He was a good chap, Alby,” said Billy
CONFIDENCES.
GLUME: “What’s th’ best thing to do when
you get nipped for a quid by a con-
fidence man?”
BLUME: “Go back to mother before an-
other one spots you.”
with a reminiscent sigh. “We had some good
times together. I remember one night at
Cumbarara. He and I”
“But I say,” someone interrupted Billy in
his changed line of reminiscence, “weren’t
those things .ever found’?”
“Oh, those?” said Billy, with an air of
injury at the breaking of his train of thought.
“Alby found them in his pocket when the
train pulled into Emerald. He also remem-
bered afterwards that the jewellery was
insured.”
AdAM'ASCUS.
Whene’er I take my walks abroad
I thank what gods I can afford
That they man’s life with interest cram
Whene'er the girls get on a tram.
N.s.w. Bad Bill.
*
“Work is the salt of life.” Now we can
understand why we get so thirsty.
We all get a share of luck. Some get it in
the pocket; others get it in the neck.
The only thing that can always be
depended upon to speak well of a man when
he’s down is his tombstone.
* Ss
Undertakers are going in largely for motor-
hearses. After all, it is up to them to sup-
port an industry that keeps them so busy.
“Gold and silver arc the vogue.” the
Woman’s Mirror says. But husbands find
that there is still a very fair demand for
cheques.
According to an English Judge “the only
safe way to cross a road is to go with a
perambulator, for even the most reckless
motorist will hesitate before killing a baby.”
With eyes on future records he
Will spare the infant, if he can,
In hope it will grow up to be
A juicy, fat pedestrian.
❖ *
An observer says that the most docile
workmen come from the dairying districts.
Most natural; they are cowed almost from
infancy.
Relations between the British and Egyp-
tian Governments are said to be strained.
Where the Gyppo is concerned they ought
to be filtered.
Be smart, sweet maid, and let who will be
highbrow;
Dance through the hours in jazz-abandoned
bliss,
With lacquered lip and tweezer-arched eye-
brow —
You'll do me, Sis.
* *
Bast week’s cold snap suggests the neces-
sity for a clothes season for flappers.
The most important thing about the
opportunity of a lifetime is that it has to be
seized in the lifetime of the opportunity.
* *
Winter forlorn has gripped our hand,
A time by all men cursed;
For drink to all intents is banned—
We cannot get a thirst.
* *
No man would miss his miss; and yet,
In all too short a while,
lie finds his missis not the miss
Who's good as any smile.
N.S.W.
H. H.
SHOW ME MORE.
Marcella, you’ve an Eton crop,
Your speech is short and crisp,
Your dress runs southward at the top,
Your skirt is but a wisp.
Your arms —well, kid, they’re worth a line,
Your legs are shapely, too;
There’s nothing that I don’t wish mine
Of all you have on view.
We’ve kissed —of course I shouldn’t tell—
We’ve had a lot of fun ;
But you reckon you know men too well
To go and marry one.
Marcell, old sport, I know you’ve legs
And arms, and every part
Scores points; but this poor suppliant begs
You’ll some day show a heart.
N.S.W.
HYRAM.


S?3
-
■, . .
.
."vs
& m
V
.
I B
K3
9
i
- 1
■
1 a
m,
il
IS
!.£•: i
*3
ffl
i M
ra
i«
H !
w*S*l*
■ '
a. b, 17*
>• v
' 1
If TOlfl
fl
1
IUr^
qAt the Sign of the “ White Horses
White Horse Whisky doesn’t change— wherever
you buy it, wherever you try it, you will find
it’s just the same grand old Whisky, made
according to the original recipe of 1746.
Every drop of water used in I White Horse is
Scottish, and it’s just that little “ tang ” of the
heather which gives White Horse its individuality
and character. When you hear that old
familiar substitution cry, “ Oh, Sir, this is just
as good,” don’t believe it or listen to it.
Insist on White Horse Whisky. It’s the best
in the world and is made by the largest
INDEPENDENT Whisky Firm in Scotland
from the original recipe of 1746*
White house
"scotchWHISKY
WHITE HORSE DISTILLERS LTD.
Glasgow,
DALGETY & COMPANY LTD.,
Agents.


There is nothing more beautiful than a perfect skin, clear, soft and healthy—that is the
kind of skin that compels admiration. If you have become discouraged of ever attaining
a perfect complexion and have used various creams and treatments and your skin is still
sallow, oily, coarse or blotchy, try Rexona Soap.
You will be both amazed and delighted to find what a difference this pure, super-
excellent facial soap will make to your complexion. Doubtless it seems incredible to you
that anything so simple as daily bathing the face with Rexona Soap and fresh water could
make such an improvement in the skin, when so many other complexion treatments have
failed to do so, yet you will find that such is the case, because Rexona Soap contains in
addition to its unusual cleansing qualities all the soothing, healing, corrective properties
contained in Rexona, the Rapid Healer, so that its use quickly overcomes any facial imper-
fections.
After using Rexona Soap you will feel that your skin has been refreshed and invigorated
to the very depths of its tiny pores, and you will inhale the delightful outdoor freshness of
the Rexona fragrance that is typical of Rexona itself.
Use Rexona Soap with hot or
cold water, soft or hard water; it is
always good and gives abundant
foamy lather in every case. Use
Rexona Soap for Health and
Beauty and be a Rexona Girl.
Rexona Soap—the best soap
that it is possible to produce.
Hmena
©up
c?or Health
and(§eaiily
'k
V*
=4 2
BK Sfc
■1
I i
. : :
■ I
■
llalßill
I
a
:
8
Hi
■
I
X
“Rexona
Soap—
My
Favorite”
MISS NOLA NEVILLE ,
a beautiful Rexona Girl,
writes:—“l have been
u sin a Rexona Soap for
some time and am really
more than deUyhtcd with
the wonderful results


u
THE WOMAN’S MIRROR
tT
Contains everything that women should know, from kitchen to
drawing-room, from the cradle to old age.
FREE PATTERN EVERY WEEK.
It is the most remarkable Threepennyworth ever printed.
• ‘THE WOMAN’S MIRROR.”
PUBLISHED EVERY TUESDAY,
Price
3d
ê
ë
ē
ĕ
ė
ę
ě
e
è
radbury’s
CDAIIIVMILhy"
CHOCOLATE
Wholesome nur bars, scrumptious plain bars or the new Neapolr
tan dainty and convenient tablets packed in carton. Try C. D. M
Chocolate to-day made every day f r uin Fresh Dairy Milk .
Sfrj.
Six Rounds.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
SLAP, rub; slap, rub; slap, rub; slap,
rub; the motion went on tirelessly,
eternally, and under it Hoane felt him-
self drowsing, hypnotised. It was always
like this during the rub-down that preceded
his fights. When they were doing his thighs
it wasn’t so good, because they pinched and
jolted his flesh. For his arms and shoulders,
of course, he had to sit up, and for his
stomach the pressure and friction of a rough,
hard forearm was almost painful and cer-
tainly not soothing.
But his back, just beneath the armpits,
above the 10in5.... Slap, rub; slap, rub;
lingers and palms smooth with olive oil, and
the great pad of muscle, just like a lump
of soft rubber, saving the skeleton from
jarring. ... Glorious, heavenly !
Mison looked up as the door opened and
a peering, curious head thrust through.
“Nearly ready V (Jlarke’ll get him in this
round.”
The informative head glanced quickly
round the small, glaringly-lit cubicle, with its
piles of soiled clothing, boxing trunks and
seconds’ gear; let its eyes rest on Hoane’s
flat, wide, nude figure under Misou’s hands.
“Is ’e all rightV I got ’arf a note on ’im.”
“Yairs, lie’s all right. Ain’t yer, Hoanie V”
Hoane grunted.
Slap, rub; slap, rub; slap, rub; Mison’s
fingers never ceased their caressing. Long-
practice, years of it, had made his fingers
prehensile to flesh, even with oil on them,
lie could pick out a muscle at will, soothe
it, stroke it, soften it, send his sensitive
lingers questing down it for knots and hard-
ness and strained swellings. He knew flesh
with his fingers as other men know it with
their eyes.
The rubbing ceased.
“That’ll do. Sit up while I put yer
bandages on.”
Hoane came to with a start. He groaned
and heaved himself upright. Under the
yellow light his hands were dark and sav-
agely bony as he held them out for the
bandages. In the right hand two knuckles
were broken; knocked back in the early
days when he had first entered the ring after
a career of grass fighting.
The door opened again and Paddy Mon-
achie came in with a couple of grimy towels.
Spud Keen, in what had once been a gaudy
pullover, followed him and spat neatly into
a corner. Behind him, another fighter, half
dressed, leaned against the door-post and
addressed himself to everyone’s back.
“You got Stinker Machen t’-night, ain’t
yer, ’Oanie?”
“Yairs, the cow. Ef Joe Braggidge don’t
caution ’im fer breakin’ dirty”—-Mison spoke
without ceasing to bandage—“l’ll get into
th’ ring an’ raise a shine before tli’ mob.”
“Y’ wanter watch as yer step back. Keep
yer guard up. Don’t do none of th’ honor-
able stuff, spreadin’ out yer arms, or nothin’.”
Hoane clenched and unclenched his hands.
The bandages were just right, neither too
tight nor too loose, lie picked up his shorts
and slipped them over his nakedness, pull-
ing the string well up above the navel. As
be did so, through the thickness of tin and
board above their heads, where the three-
shilling crowd smoked and chewed peanuts
and got their second-hand thrills, there came
a faint roar and a din of stamping feet.
“K. 0.,” said someone.
Hoane pulled his boots on and laced them
carefully.. At one side of the room Spud ,
Keen was collecting vaseline, sponge and
a bottle of cold water. Monachie, whistling,
dropped the towels over his arm and pulled
down a greatcoat from behind the door.
“If y’ win t’-night, tli’ mob’ll want yer
t’ fight Sparky Belway,” he told Hoane.
“There’s a good bit o’ money on yer, anyway.”
Hoane sat waiting in the greatcoat.
He thought vaguely of what he would do
with the money he would get after the
fight. Five pounds for the six rounds, if he
won. A quid for a new pair of boots ; the
ones he had on were almost through. A
little more olive oil. A drink or two to Spud
and Monachie. The rest into the bank,
along with the sum that had accumulated
during the last three months on the wharves.
It was a toss-up which he would do; marry
Bessie or go through with the fight game.
He couldn’t do both. Bessie wouldn’t
stand for it; didn’t like his cruelly-splayed
nose as it was, and the hint of thickness in
the left ear, where the, right-hand gloves of
his opponents always savaged him in the
clinches. The fight game meant money.
There were no good heavyweights nowadays,
and a man had a chance for the champion-
ship if he could fight at all. Dim and ideal-
istic visions of managers, of a crowd of
trainers and seconds, of fierce, hard inter-
views with broad-bellied Jewish men who
somehow controlled things and never seemed
washed, of percentages and winners’ and
losers’ ends, and of vague, glorious times
between fights when there was no need to
train, and time for women and cars and
hotels in the country. 0r.... Bessie in
a home of her own ; a kid ; her cooking; her
funny, dear kisses and moments of passionate
love, and her utter changeless loyalty that
no poverty nor cudgelling of circumstance
could break
Came a dull, vibrant roar from the ceil-
ing, the walls. A roar different from any
other because it was made by human beings ;
a faint, dusty trembling of everything.
“One —two —three” Spud counted ;
"four —five —six He’s out, I’ll betcher !”
The roar crescendoed.
“Out!” from Monachie.
The boxer leaning against the doors
shifted suddenly to .let a boy, clad in the
white coat and red trousers of a peanut-
seller, thrust hastily through.
“Stinker’s ready,” announced the boy.
They filed out, Mison leading. Out in the
cold, stone passage, men were standing, talk-
ing and smoking. At the far end a man
was visible, sluicing himself with the chill
water, and as they walked towards the
entrance of the stadium, they were met by
the winner, triumphant, laughing, surrounded
by seconds and congratulators, still panting
and bleeding a little. They exchanged shouts.
At the end of the; gangway the ring was
gleaming white under the electrics. The
cards for the coming fight were being drawn
up at the corner posts. Peanut-sellers went
yelling along the rows, and everywhere men
were lighting up tobacco in pipes and un-
tidily-rolled cigarettes.
Stinker Maclien and his seconds followed
close behind them. As they climbed into
the ring, someone in the back rows began
clapping, and the movement spread irregu-
larly like little jets, of fire all over the
packed auditorium. There was some booing
as Stinker climbed between the ropes and
walked over to the resin-box.
From the centre of the ring, Monachie
and the second from Stinker’s corner selected
gloves. Monachie came back grumbling.
“Crook gloves. Ougliter be scrapped,” he
DIDN’T WANT NO ARGYMENT.
“’Ow dedden my leghorns taake a prize?”
“I suppose the ajudicator didn’t think they were the best.”
“I doan’t care nawthin’ ’bout ’e. I do want to know what the judge got to say ’bout it.”
said, feeling the slightly-hardened leather and
the lumpiness of the padding.
He pulled them over Hoane’s hands, push-
ing the lumps of padding well back from the
knuckles. He bent down and pulled away
the resin-box from Hoane’s feet; then knelt
and began kneading the thigh muscles while
Spud and Mison arranged the water-bottle
and towels and smeared vaseline on the
broken nose.
Joe Braggidge pushed himself away from
the ropes, over which he had been talking
to someone in the ringside seats, and beckoned
to the two men from the centre of the ring.
Hoane stood up. While two seconds held
the overcoat, lie pulled his gloves through
the sleeves and then went forward.
Stinker seemed enormous under the ring
lights. Like cables the pectoral muscles
writhed heavily across his breasts and dis-
appeared in the shoulders, to be continued in
the stringy pads of triceps and biceps. Down
his stomach two long ridges of muscle van-
ished beneath his shorts, and his neck swelled
out from under his ears. He stared cun-
ningly at Hoane as he advanced and touched
gloves, and grinned faintly at the referee’s
admonishment.
“You know th’ rules, boys. No rabbitin’,
an’ break clean when I sing out. Machen,
you break clean or I’ll crown Hoanie
here.... Orright.”
Back to his corner; a moment with his
face to the great crowd of chewing, smok-
ing, spitting faces and the wisps and mists
of blue-grey tobacco-smoke. Stinker, he
knew, was flexing and straightening his legs
as he held to the ropes—a bit of gallery play
that he himself never troubled about.
> Clang!
: He whipped round, as the light thud of
! swift feet told him that the other was rush-
ing in, on the chance of flustering him by a
• sudden burst into action instead of the
usual preliminary flipping and glove-play of
the . first round.
He crouched, ducked away, and sprang
back against the ropes. Stinker brought
up with a jerk, grinned at his failure and
settled down to the usual routine.
They circled cautiously about each other.
Maclien held himself as he always did ; one
leg bent low, right hand deceptively idling
about his stomach and the other held out
stiff and tense, a cat-like poise that he
somehow managed to hold to the last round
of a fight. Iloane stood stiff and taller,
his guard more orthodox and his chin behind
his left shoulder.
They approached the centre of the ring.
Abruptly Stinker’s hand whipped out,
touched Hoane’s glove and went back. Iloane
followed that hand, stepped in smartly and
hit, shortly, snappily, at the other’s face.
They clinched, clung, stabbed futilely, under
and up, at each other’s vitals, and slowly
separated. The crowd rustled and sighed
ponderously.
Again the cautious circling, the tense
poses, naught but the slither of their feet
and the heavy breathing of Joe Braggidge
audible in the ring. Again they clinched,
hit, and wrestled apart.
“Keep per guard up. Keep per guard
up. Tli' cow's dangerous!" Iloane kept
telling himself as lie clinched and smothered;
and as Joe Braggidge tapped them apart he
kept his chin behind his shoulder and his
right glove well up.
At the end of the round, he found his lip
slinging, from what blow he knew not, and
tasted blood in his mouth, lie walked back
to his corner and sat down, breathing easily
and lightly.
“Keep yer guard up, boy, an’ you’ll get
liim all right. ’E ain’t only got one punch—
that right cross of ’is,” Mison told him as he
dashed a handful of cold water into his
charge’s face and wiped the damp sponge
over his chest and shoulders. He picked a
moment at the broken lip and dismissed it,
spending the rest of the time rubbing his
man’s tlii°’hs
The gong went again. Hoane was out and
in the centre of the ring in three quick
strides, and as Stinker came for him he
lashed out viciously with las left and brought
H le across to the ribs. He felt both
blows land heavily and heard the delighted
roar of the crowd. Stinker grunted and
clinched. His face was hard and savage as he
pushed it over Hoane s shoulder. Hoane broke
' ei «rfu UtlollS rH i ii vi
Slither, slither; hit, duck clinch; a
moments, wrestling, a careful breakaway.
Iho round plodded slowly on. Half a minute
before time Stinker broke into a fury of hard
sudden hitting and following up. Hoane
knew he had lost that round.
Mison rubbed his legs and said nothing as
he sat down. Hoane wondered what he
ought to do in the next round and wished
Mison would tell him. He was not a quick-
brained fighter. He had never learnt to “box.”
for that matter. He had learned to fight
eannily. through months of grass battles, by
simple empirical methods. He had learnt to
duck or guard a straight-left, because
straight-lefts had hurt him so often, and by
the same automatic reaction he smothered
rights and protected his stomach. Of ring-
craft lie knew little. When he had a man
groggy, by a lucky punch, he went after
him, tore into him, swinging and jabbing,
hooking and upper-cutting, until the man
staggered dizzily back against the ropes and
left open all his vital points for the K.O.
Of drawing, a man on, of feinting and tacking
for position, even of timing his blows and
beating his man to the punch, he knew
nothing. Now he wondered vaguely what he
should do when the gong went again.
“Keep yer guard up,” was all Mison said.
Then came the clang of the gong, and he
was back in the centre, aware of a new
menacing look in Stinker’s eyes and an ani-
mal alertness about Stinker’s torso and legs.
Stinker came after him berserk. He met
the rush with a straight-left that slid over
the other’s vaselined shoulder, and staggered
as their bodies met. There was a flurry of
vicious, savagely thrusting arms and the
sickening jar of gloves on his face. Stinker
seemed to be hitting with everything he pos-
sessed. Hoane tried vainly to clinch, to cling
on, get his chin on the other’s shoulder, and
was hit and pushed savagely back and fol-
lowed up.
Suddenly flames shot about his head and
the ring lights swung upwards. He found
himself on his knees, his tongue sickly sweet
and his head whirling, while a steadily-
counting Joe Braggidge beat the seconds above
his head. He got to his feet at “eight’’ and
smothered feebly before Stinker’s rush. Some-
how, sense returned to him. He found
Stinker’s plexus with a wicked right, pushed
back his slightly surprised head with his
left and sank into a clinch.
As they separated slowly he forgot about
his right hand. He saw Stinker’s teeth bare
before the nerve impulse travelled to liis
glove, and then something smacked across his
face, half stunning him.
“800-00-oo! 800-00-00-oo!”
The crowd roared and hooted like a pri-
meval monster. Joe Braggidge was between
them, his face dark and angry.
“Stinker, you do that dirt again, an’
Iloanc’s the winner. ’Jer hear?”
“Sorry,” said Stinker, and proffered his
gloves for an instant to Hoane’s, while the
crowd booed and yelled about them.
Would the round never end? For aeons
Stinker circled about him, lashing out Avick-
edly and accurately and stepping back swiftly
out of range. Hoane staggered to his corner
a beaten man.
“Wanter go another round?” asked Mison,
as he sank on the seat.
He nodded and resigned himself to the
towel-waA'ing and cold-sponging.
The gong went again—almost immediately,
it seemed. He saw Stinker leap from his
corner and patter swiftly across to him. .
Slither, hit, duck, stamp and wrestle ; then
more feeble slithering.... He decided sud-
denly to make a fight of it, and lammed his
left into the other’s face. He followed up.
hitting, slamming, boring in. swinging wildly,
and striding after the astonished Stinker, lie
felt his gloves land heavily, twice, thrice, and
then Stinker was against the ropes.
Stinker sprang back off the ropes, his left
out straight. It caught Hoane between the
eyes and flung him back, sick and dizzy and
paAving at the air.
For a moment he stood, Avaving his arms
uncertainly at Stinker, who crouched before
him.
Something thudded against his plexus. All
the entrails seemed to go from him and were
replaced by a vast aching agony. His legs
sagged like string, and he dropped to the
canvas.
In a dream he saw Joe Braggidge count
above him. Saw his hand descend upon
Stinker’s head. Felt himself lifted and car-
ried by a sullen Mison and a gloomy Mona-
chie.
In the dressing-room he came slowly to and
presently sat up.
“Feeling a bit crook?” inquired Mison.
“Yairs.”
“ 'E gotcher a ’elluva knock in th’ guts. Y’
wanter take it easy for a bit.... Th’ coav !
There Averen’t no need fer it, neither. ’E
coulda k.0.-ed yer on the jaw easy enough.
Cruel.”
Hoane Avas thinking deeply. He pursed
out his lower lip and raised one eyebroAv at
Mison.
“That’s me last fight,” he said, abruptly.
Mison stared at him. “Garn, yer dpn't
wanter take it like that”
“That’s me last. Me a champ.?” Hoane
snorted derisively. “I’m goodoh for prelims.
But a champ., no. C’mon. Let’s go an’ git
th’ cash.”
As he pulled on liis clothes and collected his
gear, he thought brightly, vividly, of Bessie
and her queer lovable smile. That kid! God,
he might have been fool enough to give up
that girl, let her go. drop her for some
sane man to pick up, just because of a vision
he’d had of himself in smart clothes and in
a flash Poll’s arms. A vision that now seemed
like a puff of smoke, a mere idle thought that
counted for nothing.
He was whistling and more cheerful than
Stinker as he collected the loser’s end outside
the box-oflice and strode away down the
street.
PHILIP BENN.


MAN
NEWS
e
THE
“Gratwist”
Work Skirt
12/6 &c ,, T fc'36/-
A good strong
wearing shirt,
made of Grey
Twist Shirt-
ing thatrevels
in hard wear.
S h i r 18 are
made with
two Breast Pockets to button.
Cut loosely all over for work
comfort. All Sizes. “Post < tfree->.
PIKE BROTHERS
LIMITED
In Queen Street, Brisbane
£10,000,000 IN INTEREST.
Since the Commonwealth Bank of Australia commenced business in 1913,
it has paid no less than £10,000,000 to its Savings Bank Depositors, as Interest
on their Savings.
In this respect alone, therefore, the advent of the Commonwealth Bank
has meant a great deal to Australia—and it should be remembered that the
Savings Department is only one section of this Bank’s Service to the Public.
Are you, as an individual Australian, getting your share of these big
Interest Payments?
We want to help you become financially independent and for .this purpose
place our entire service at your disposal.
Every branch of the Bank has a Savings Department, and every Post
Office is a Savings Bank Agency.
Open an Account now.
Comiaonwealtb Sank of Buslralia
(Guaranteed by the Commonwealth Government.)
r
then you will look young. Feed
your body with Sanatogen. You
will soon notice a new glow of
health. You will feel rejuvenated.
SAIUTOGEh
The True Tonic-Food .
Our Service Department
This page is set apart for the service of Bulletin readers.
If you want anything, including information, you are invited to write to the
Service Department.
The service is entirely free. All you have to do is to attach the coupon from the
inside back cover of last Bulletin to hand.
Readers obliging with replies need not attach coupons.
The right of selection and rejection is reserved.
To facilitate search it is desirable that questions be asked on only one subject at
a time.
Wants.
(Replies should be sent to the number
set against the “Want,” c/o Service
Department, BULLETIN.)
House-painter, married, three y. children,
urgently wants work. Will undertake paint-
ing (labor only) and guarantee satisfaction.
Gardening or any laboring work not despised.
—524.
Young couple, Australians, require pos.
early July; station pref. ; wife, cook-laun-
dress or nursery-housemaid ; husband, general
station-hand or groom, milk and kill. Excel-
lent refs. —526.
Have sheep property, improved brigalow
scrub country, permanent water, splendid
grass (500 acres Rhoades grass). I want
about 1000 sheep on some share system.—
527.
Whereabouts of A. C. Smith, late of Albert
(N.S.W.) ; brother asks. —531.
Retired banker, 40 years’ exp., wants
three days’ occupation per week ; confidential
duties preferred.—s3o.
To sell 2080 ac. (N.S.W. settlement lease
under old Act), splendid sheep and cattle
country, perm, watered by Severn R. (1 mile
frontage), creek and two lakes; 4r. cottage,
shed (30 x 20 ft.) ; cypress-pine, ironbark,
box and apple-tree; 15s. per ac. —569.
By young nurse, three years’ exp. in good
mental hospitals, position as assistant or re-
lieving stewardess. —574.
Management or care of stud or general
breeding property ; cattle or horses ; practical
life exp.; good refs.; moderate.—sl9.
Retired civil servant, good knowledge sheep
and cattle station work, some private means,
wants home in bush; in return will keep
books and store. Pay nominal.—4ol.
Young Australian, just finishing appren-
ticeship on small country paper, wants a
place in country, newspaper office, with
chance to learn the lino. Good hand-comp.,
with some Tech. Coll, passes; intelligent
reporter; keen on his job. Present employer
confidently recommends.—sB3.
Stewardess, year’s experience, also holding
lift-attendant’s certificate, wants any posi-
tion. T.B. husband to support.—s9o.
First-class salesman, 5 years’ exp. doing
whole Queensland, first-class connection,
softgoods, wants work. Handle any line.
Reliable. —582.
Words of a song, “Nuit d’Etoiles,” music
by Debussy? (Replies may be sent to E.L.R.,
12 Pacific-street, Roslyn, N.Z.). —520.
Book, “Australia Revenged,” published
some years ag0.—534.
To sell, Underwood portable typewriter,
very little used, excellent order; £l2 12s.—-
494.
To buy a good cattle d0g.—540.
Lad 18, wants job cowboy, sheep or cattle
station, gain exp. Well educated. Ex. refs.
—550.
Mother and daughter want board, Upper
Murray or Riverina, farm preferred: month
July.—s 49.
Copies of “Art in Australia.”—soo.
Sell Jersey bull, pure-bred, reg’d, great
milk and show pedigree, 4, v. quiet. Near
Sydney.—4s3.
Book “Eastern Fruit on Western Dishes,”
by P. Y. Nasby.—37B.
Words of verses “In the Riverina After
Rain.”-—417. (Replies can be sent direct
to Humphrey and Copplestone, Mildura,
Vic.)
Sell upright grand Foster piano; cost £l3O
eight years ago ; very little used; £80; inc.
double rosewood seat. —364.
Copy of portion of a translation of Dante’s
“Inferno,” by Francis Philip O’Reilly, that
appeared in an Australian paper about 1894.
—426. (Replies can be sent direct to H.
O’Reilly, Ilona Bay, Wellington, N.Z.).
Copy of “Here’s How.” —395.
Pair tame or young brolgas and kangaroo-
rats for private z 00.—411.. —411.
Second-hand copy of Lover’s “Lyrics of
Ireland.”—4l3.
“Masks and Minstrels of New Germany”
and “Tragedies in Sex,” by F'rank Wedekind,
translated by Sam A. Elliot. Will give pub-
lished price.—480.
Sell “Electrical Equipment of the Car,” 3
vols., £5.—580.
Exchange Aus. Com. stamp collection,
value £75, for motor launch. Cash adjust-
ment if necessary. Or sell same, with a col-
lection of 200 silver coins, for cash. —455.
Words of “Recompense,” by Tom Skeyliill.
—585. (Replies direct to L. Marrisli, 261
Elizabeth-street, Hobart.)
Information Sought.
Eighteen years ago a Sobraon boy was
apprenticed in N. M. Wales, llis wages were
paid into a banking account, lie ran away
after two years’ service. Can he claim that
money, and, if so, through what department?
—517.
Yes, he may claim it, and if the claim is
substantiated payment will be made. Appli-
cation should be made to the Secretary, Child
Welfare Department, Sydney; a form for
that purpose has been posted to you.
What is the charge per head or 100 for
grazing sheep in time of drought and in a
normal season? Also the ivages of men feed-
ing the sheep? —s72.
Agistment for sheep is usually so much
per thousand per month. The price varies
greatly, but for normal times is £l2'los. per
1000 sheep per month upwards—mostly up-
wards. In times of drought from £6O down-
wards. The present rate is nearer £5O than
£l2 10s. Men looking after the sheep are
paid by the week according to the award
governing rural workers.
A night-school in Sydney where I may
study advanced English and any other sub-
jects of my choice — languages, economics,
perhaps a science. —s7B.
Sydney Coaching College, Daking House,
Pitt-street; University Coaching College,
Atlas Buildings, 8 Spring-street.
A year ago I was injured in a bus acci-
dent. I immediately claimed compensation
and ascertained that the bus-owning co. was
insured for £2OOO. About ■July several settle-
ments ivere made. The co. then went bank-
rupt. After returning to work I took the
matter up and was referred to the insur-
ance co., and by the latter to its solicitor.
I interviewed a solicitor and was subse-
quently advised that it was no use suing the
bus co. and that I could not sue the insur-
ance co. What further steps should I take?
I am still actually under treatment. —563.
The Official Assignee in this case “ex-
pressed the opinion that the insurance co.
was still liable.” But that co.’s liability was
to the bus co., not to you personally. You
did not prosecute your claim against the
co. whilst it was in existence. Had you
done so and obtained a verdict the bus co.
could then have claimed on the insurance
co. The bus co. is now non-existent. The
advice of your solicitor that you cannot claim
against the insurance co. appears to be
sound. That co. does not recognise you in
the matter. Yours appears to be a case of
fatal delay. You might, however, consult
the Legal Aid Department, Queeu’s-square,
Sydney.
What poison can be used for killing green
timber as described by “Waimea” (B.
19/5/’27) ? Price? Where obtainable?— 516.
“Waimea” replies: I believe there are
other suitable mixtures, but the one I know
is the S. O. S. prickly-pear poison, sold by
Commonwealth Wool Co., Bent-street, Syd-
ney ; 3s. per gal. in cases of two 4-gallon tins.
Cut the usual ringbarking fringe as close to
the ground as possible; pour into it a couple
of tablespoonfuls of the raw poison; a brush
may be used to make it completely circle the
tree. Make the groove with an inward tilt
so that the liquid wall not run out.
A married woman obtained a maintenance
order from the Court on her husband, who
has never left his home. How would he
proceed to have that order annulled or ivith-
drawnf —518.
The Stipendiary or P.M. who made the
order has power to vary the amount under
it. He may even reduce it to nil. The
Chamber Magistrate or C.P.S. at the court
where the order was made will advise on
procedure and supply forms. The respondent
has a right to be heard and will be served
with notice of the application.
Where can I get art training? Fees, etc.?
—536.
There are several good schools in the
larger cities. Time required depends upon
the pupil’s capabilities and industry; a full
course takes from three to five years. As
to fees, Sydney Art School charges from
£3 3s. per term (10 weeks) for one day
per week to £6 6s. per term for five days
per week. Royal Art Society charges £1 Is.
per term for four nights (antique classes),
£1 Is. per term for four nights per week
(life classes), £1 11s. 6d. per term for two
afternoons per week (painting and draw-
ing). Most of the pupils earn their living
as they go.
I want about six Boobialla-trees, often
spoken of in The Bulletin. Gan you put
me in communication with someone who
would supply them at a reasonable price?
Would they grow in Maorilund? —528.
Boobialla-trees are hardy, and when trans-
planted might die right down to the roots,
but if cared for and kept in moist ground
will spring again and grow healthily. James
Stephens, Corunna, N.S.W., or William
Phillips, c/o E. F. Hare, Central Tilba,
N.S.W., might undertake to supply a con-
signment if applied to.
What chances of advancement arc open to
a person who passes the Vic. examination for
dairy inspectors ? —532.
The examinations which the Department
of Agriculture conducts for those desiring
to qualify as dairy supervisors are not
competitive. Certificates are issued, but a
number who have qualified in the last 20
years have not been appointed, nor is appoint-
ment at any time guaranteed.
(1) If I buy in London fishing tackle which
is •unprocurable in Australia (rod, lines,
flies, etc.), for my own use, will duty be
payable? How much? (2) Same re clothing?—
550.
(1) Yes. Rod, flies, 30 p.c. United King-
dom ; 45 p.c. general. Lines, 30 p.c. U.lv. ;
40 p.c. general. (2) Impossible to say, with-
out further particulars.
Can a man serve his time as a marine
engineer in Australia by paying a premium?
—538. . , t
Marine Engineers’ Institute reports that
the practice hardly exists in Australia to-
day, and that if a premium is paid it does
not modify the conditions of the indenture
in any way. Mort’s Dock, Woolwich, Syd-
ney, will give further information.
Abo. names for (1) secluded place, (2)
plains, (3) good water, (4) camping-ground,
(5) good land, (6) happiness? —s33.
(1) Moonya (safe home) _or kolongabra
(out-of-the-way place), (2) birkalla (plain),
(3) banoon or kiewa (sweet water), (4)
kooroora (native camp), (5) tour-ur-rong
(good grass), (6) yackatoon (joyful).
What practical qualifications are necessary
to obtain a shire engineer’s certificate in
N.S. W. ? —565.
The person must either pass a special
exam, in engineering or prove that lie is
a corporate member of the Inst. Civil
Engineers or has a Uni. engineering degree,
or produce evidence to show he lias the
requisite technical knowledge. Sample papers
of the exam, can be obtained from the Govt.
Printer. The Technical College, Sydney,
has a five-year course to enable candidates
to pass the exam. A person who satisfies
the Govt. Examining Committee that he
has sufficient theoretical knowledge may
obtain an interim certificate as engineer
granted for a period only, and at the end
of that period, if the holder has proved by
work done that he is a competent engineer,
he obtains a full certificate. A person who
has the necessary theoretical knowledge can
obtain a full certificate right away if lie
can show that for not less than two years
he has had responsible control of the design
and construction of works such as are usu-
ally carried out by municipal engineers.
The exam, covers design and construction
of roads, drawing and preparation of plans,
calculations of quantities and costs, survey-
ing, hydraulic and sanitary engineering, and
the candidate must first of all have passed
the Leaving Certificate or some exam, equi-
valent thereto.
I leave Fiji shortly for a holiday and
want a small flat (one or two bedrooms,
living-room; bath , and kitchenette ) in Dar-
Knghurst, Byd. (a) Rent, furnished? ( l))
Ditto, unfurnished? (c) How do I get it?
—567.
(a) £3 3s. to £4 10s. p.w. (b) £2 2s. to
£3 10s. p.w. (c) Take your pick from the
advts. in the S. M. Herald.
What works deal with the psychoanalysis
of literary and artistic creation, particularly
the former? Foreign, unless translated, are
useless. —soB.
“Psychoanalysis and Esthetics,” by
Charles Baudouin (Allen and Unwin), 165.;
F. C. Prescott’s “The Poetic Mind”; Jel-
lilfe and Smith, “Psychoanalysis and the
Drama”; “Essay on the Creative Imagina-
tion.” by Rihot, translated by Baron, pub-
lished by Ivegan Paul.
The address of a reliable dealer in tortoise-
shell and a quote per 1b.?— 589.
Morey and Co., See Yick and Co. and
Kum Him Cheong and Co., all of Thursday
Island. Price at T.I. ranges from 12s. to
355. per lb. weight. But only tortoise-
shell turtle is valuable, and oiily the 13 main
plates on his back, though occasionally the
Chinese will give 3s. Od. per lb. for the
hook and belly pieces. Exceptional-quality
shell has brought over £5 per turtle; average
value per turtle would be about £2. Con-
tinental prices, of course, are much higher,
and lately exceptional figures have been
realised. Price varies in T.I. according to
quality, thickness of plates, mottle, and other
considerations.
Information Supplied.
184.—Common washing-soda is used as a
supposed cure for "sooty mould” or “fuma-
gine” on citrus trees. It is applied to the
soil around, 141 b. to 21b. per tree. It is
doubtful if this treatment is in any way
beneficial. Sooty mould is caused by aphis
and certain scale insects —particularly brown
olive and white wax scale. These. throw off
a sweet sticky secretion, which in turn is
attacked by a fungus, resulting in the black
sooty mould over leaves and fruit. The
remedy is to rid the trees of the scale insects
by cyanide fumigation or spraying with one
of the oil sprays on the market, when the
soot will disappear 1 . If it is wished to remove
the soot from ripe fruit, a spraying of boiled
starch, half-pound to 4 gallons of hot water,
applied hot, will do the job.—-Poncirus.
199.—1 f that dog’s eyes are not better yet
bathe them with a boracic-acid solution.—
Coola.
322.—A “rabbit squeaker” is made with a
2iu. square strip of tin, bent double, but not
squeezed tightly. A small hole a little for-
ward of midway to the lips of the contrivance
is punched cleanly through. Practice is re-
quired for manipulation, but with it the
expert hunter can so faithfully imitate the
squeal of a hare or rabbit that any tox
within hearing will rush out to investigate.
—Bill R.
Does Anybody Know ?
Will someone please send me . a sketch and
particulars for making a dry-blower for re-
covering gold in, dry country. Maine as was
used in Westralia. (Replies to E. M. ]} ( ' rc ‘>
Douglas-street, Nar render a, N.M. W. ) •
Will someone with practical experience tell
me what is the difference in cost between
heating and cooking in a small house (byd-
ney) with gas and electricity? —3so.
How can I clear a dam; down three years,
and still very muddy, though no stock is
watering at it, and it is as tight as a> bottles
Have treated small quantities with lime, salts,
Milestone and super-phosphate with little or
no success. —496.
I have an old writing-table, once Mir John
Franklin’s chart-table, later his writing-table
at Government House, Hobart. How can 1
dispose of it to the best advantage? —499.
Brief Answers.
E.L.M.: Write to the office concerned, ask
what paid-up policy it will issue to you, and then
resubmit your question along with that information.
T.C.B.: The President of the Authors and
Artists’ Association of Queensland is Professor J.
J. Stable, Queensland University; the hon. sec., E.
Colclough, Lands Office, Brisbane. Mrs. M. Forrest
does not read other authors’ MS B.McG.: For your
purpose, a Dodge S.J.J.: We can’t trace any of the
Tyson estate in Chancery. The Queensland Registrar-
General, Brisbane, has particulars of the distribu-
tion ... .H.F.: (1) Write Commonwealth Home and
Territories Department, Spring-street, Melbourne.
(•2) Burns, Pliilp, Bridge-street, Sydney, are most
likely to have news of vacancies in the Islands
W. 11.8.: if you were delayed in sitting for the
Matriculation or the Leaving Examination by your
enlistment and departure on active service, the Uni-
versity may exempt you from examination in some
or all subjects, provided you can produce proof of
your educational attainments... .W.J.W.: Not at
present Enquirer: Advertise it in the ‘‘For Sale”
columns of the daily papers.... Hastings: Write to
Whitcombe and Tombs, Ltd., Wellington. .. .C.D.: Get
in touch with Sydney Marine Underwriters and Sal-
vage Association, Royal Exchange, Sydney; or Vine
Hall, Howell and Gibson, 24 Bond-street, Sydney
K. : Melbourne —Chartres Correspondence College,
575 Collins-street; Sydney—Harry J. Weston, Union
House, George-street... .C.H.: Freethinker is not
listed in any of the press directories; Literary
Guide, Johnson’s Court, London, E.C.4 ; Rationalist,
Rationalist Association of Australia, Naples-road,
Mentone (Vic.) R.E.T.: 1925 and 1926; eighth
in both. . . .W.E.: (1) Nothing in Sydney; but the
Leader, of Melbourne, might suit. (2) N.S.W. Book-
stall Co., Castlereagh-street, Sydney H.C.T.: (1)
Sound, with good backing and good prospects. (2)
Poor backing, but large possibilities. (3) Showing
good recovery... .A.B. (1) Commonwealth Line, 447
Collins-street, Melbourne. (2) Poor at present
J.N.: Pulo is a prospecting co. with a large holding
in Satupulo; prospects of the latter are very good.
The co. has a board of experienced men and other
flotations in view... .F.F.A.U.; Hard to advise in
the circs. ; almost any mining share is too uncertain
for such an investor... .N.D.R.: If the tin market
holds, Thabawleik should be a very big profit-earner;
others more doubtful. .. .A.M.: Read a par. on the
subject in this week’s “Land” section. .. .WAV.:
Communicate first with Mr. Justice Long-Innes,
Supreme Court, Sydney.


Overland
Down
WHIPPET
in Price.
**•
•i-
35 miles on an Imperial gallon of
petrol.
55 miles and more per hour.
5 to 30 miles an hour in 13 seconds.
4 wheel brakes . . . stops in 51 feet
from a speed of 40 miles an hour.
Turns in 34 foot circle . . . easy to
steer.
5 feet 9 inches high . . . lower centre
of gravity . . . ample road clearance
. . . greater road safety.
Smart body lines ... long-life satin-
finish of beautiful duotone duco.
■V ‘V
1
!
1 V
55,070 Whippets in the first 4 months is a success-
record unequaled by any other new car. The
Whippet has already established a new, revolutionary
trend in light car design that all others must follow
or be swept into oblivion.
It has taken Overland engineers 3 years to design,
develop and perfect this new-type motor car. What
the Whippet offers you now cannot be obtained in
any other light car for years to come.
The Whippet gives you more power—more speed—
more safety—more comfort—and more beauty than
the world has been accustomed to getting in ordi-
nary light cars.
In fairness to yourself you must see this remarkable
new-type car—drive it—feel the thrill of power-per-
formance that thousands now would not part with.
■r A Y* OVERLAND
y \Jhippet
Body styles—Touring, Roadster, 2-door Coach.
/
Overland Sydney, Ltd., 148-150 Castlereagh Street, SYDNEY.
Overland Victoria Pty., Ltd., 117-121 Lonsdale Street, MELBOURNE.
Overland South Australia, Ltd., 236-238 Victoria Square, ADELAIDE,
E. G. Eager & Son, Ltd.- Breakfast Creek Road, Newstead, BRISBANE.
H. C. Heathorn & Co., Ltd., HOBART and LAUNCESTON.
Adams Motors, Ltd., 442-446 Murray Street, PERTH.
Dealers and Service Everywhere.
WILLYS • OV E R L A N P
FINE
MOTOR
CARS


Whatever Your
Skin Trouble
£)OES your skin get rough, chapped and
irritable? Are you distressed by out-
breaks of pimples and blotches? If so, dress-
ings of Zam-Buk will soon put you right.
This rich herbal balm is at once soothing
healing and antiseptic. It is so highly refined
that it soaks naturally through the pores into
the tissues and heals from below. Thus
Zam-Buk purifies and invigorates your skin
and protects it against disease.
Jieal it with
r amßuk
Zam-Buk 1/6 box, 3j6 family size. Medicinal Soap 1\- a tablet.
/k
X
y.
/
rC
\V
\\
&
l
0
\
7 \
FREE SAMPLES
of Zam-Buk Balm and
Zam-Buk Medicinal Soap
will be sent Post Paid on
request. Forward name
and address to Messrs.
C. E. Fulford (Aws.), Ltd.,
Sydney. Mention Tiie
Bulletin 16/6/’27.
ensitechniccuites
No 2
THE MILDNESS OP
KENSITAS CIGARETTES
è
MILDNESS.
The mildness oi
Kensitas makes
thorn the pre-
ferred cigarette.
They <ire as good
as really good
cigarettes can be.
lO for 9 D
20 for iyfe
In tins of
50's and 100's.
e n
* v r
«a
S ?t A
Is
c-) 57
IS
m- a
'T?/
•zJ-
t
jT
/<
H
(
fff#
"•V >»
Sj
c
*V
A' J
A SPECIALLY Trained
tame menagepie
'S MAINTAINgO ON
the plantations
AMO use® TO o-
INCULCATS IN THeV;
Tobacco plants <
The famous
MILO QUALITY
ot: KENS IT AS
KensVtcis
cigarettes
(Bi lamifaetured by J. WIX & SONS, LTD., London.
Vustralasian Representative: F Saunders. 90 Pitt St., Sydney. N 2.
Look for the Blue Machines —
You see them everywhere—
There must be a reason—
Ask any user.
%
1r *'■%s
FIG. 79.—THE FAMOUS ••CHAMPION” 3P Mixer—with Patent
Recoil Spring Loader. CAPACITY 30yds. Mixed Concrete on
Petrol per day.
The Mixer that has rendered hand-mixing obsolete, and
brought all the advantages of Machine-Mixing to small jobs.
\
ARMSTRONG-HOLLAND, LIMITED,
4 Bridge Street, Sydney. 360 Collins Street, Melbourne.
DISTRIBUTORS—
ADELAIDE: Mechanical Supplies, Ltd., 79 Grenfell Street.
PERTH: Saunders & Stuart Pty., Ltd., James Street.
BRISBANE: Australian Machinery Co., Adelaide Street.
NEWCASTLE: W. Savage & Co., Ltd., Parry Street.


I /
U V
VELVET
HAVING STICK
iizsi
Bowlers' —
Are biased in favour of
this long-lasting creamy
lather. It makes their
shave a daily pleasure.
VELVET
SHAVING STICK
*8.117#. J. KITCHEN t SONS PTY. LTD.
AUSTRALIA’S BEST.
RESCH’S
LAGER, DINNER ALE
PILSENER & STOUT.
RESCH’S BITTER ALE,
AUSTRALIA'S BEST BITTER.
Western Australian Distributors:
BURNS, PHILP & CO., LTD., PERTH AND GERALDTON.
HARVEY’S “SPECIAL” Whisky
MELLOWED BY AGE ALONE.
Sole Agents: RESCH’S, LTD., Redfern, Sydney.
[2
XShQ
W. W. GREENER
“EMPIRE”
Hammerless Gun
Obtainable from all Retailers.
Price £2l.
Wholesale Representatives:
W. P. THOMPSON 8 CO. PTY., LTD.
405-7 Lonsdale Street,
Melbourne.
SPORTING
NOTIONS
Under the Whip
After the Randwick races on Saturday
B. R. Payten, who trains for A.J.C. com-
anitteeman P. 11. Osborne, now in Britain,
svas able to let the boss know by cable that
his horses Grosvenor and Triplex had won
a double on the second day, as well as the
lirst day, of the A.J.C. winter meeting.
Glrosvenor was the only favorite to succeed
on either occasion. On the belated with-
drawal of Castles, whose pedigree had been
svrongly given, the bookmakers shifted Gros-
venor’s price for the Second Hurdle
from evens to 7 to 4 on, but it took the
big chestnut all his time to settle old Piratic
(6 to 1), whose fine showing suggested that
be would have been a lot more troublesome
in the 19-furlongs affair on the Monday had
lie been given a race or two over the sticks
beforehand. However, Piratic is a very
good hurdler on his day, and there will be
a ton of Sydney money for his conqueror
in the Grand National, all going well. The
little the bookmakers lost through “laying
a false price,” as they called it, about Gros-
venor was returned with huge interest in
the A.J.C. Steeplechase, wherein Epergne,
the 5-to-2 favorite, failed badly and Nyangay
(5 to 1), though well up all the way, was
outjumped and outpaced by Mendit (12 to
1). This Sydney horse looked a certain win-
ner as he_ led into the straight, but he ran
out wide and Gulyarri (20 to 1), who had
fallen in the First Steeple and was neglected
cn that account, beat him by a length, with
Pompene (14 to 1) a good third. S. Aus.-
bred (he is by Ritualist —Hazelene), Gul-
yarri is owned and trained by T. J. Hayes,
who had Sing for lieutenant while the horse
was at Randwick; and Sydney jockey A.
Pearce had the mount.
The Flying Handicap proved a soft thing
for White Fang (5 to 1), who won by five
lengths from two outsiders, Magdaff and
Ariedon (the judge could not separate
them), in lmin. 112-sec. The gallop was
at least 2see. (say, 2st.) better than the
Maorilander’s effort on the first day, but the
stewards saw nothing to be inquisitive about.
Statesman (7 to 4) was a good thing beaten
in the Second Nursery owing to a bad start,
but his effort to catch Rozener (11 to 2)
set good judges thinking that Kelso has a
Derby possibility in this stout-hearted son
of Demosthenes. Octember (3 to 1) dis-
appointed a multitude of backers in the
Winter Stakes, but he was so far behind
tue leaders at the end of a couple of fur-
longs that he would have needed to be better
than his half-brother Bitalli to win. Lady
Brightlights (8 to 1), who was actually
behind him at this stage, did well to run
fourth to Johnnie Jones (8 to 1), Freddie
C. (12 to 1) and unlucky Coolgong. The
judge made it a dead-heat between Freddie
C. and Johnnie Jones, and a dead-heat it
doubtless was, but Johnnie Jones might have
got the decision had his owner protested;
the other horse came out in the last half-
furlong and apparently interfered with the
leggy Beragoon gelding. Triplex was at
the remarkable price of 14 to 1 for the
Exeter Handicap, Fool’s Paradise being fav-
orite. The Thorn (S to 1), another Maori-
land horse —and a pretty good sort—worried
the favorite out of the lead and out of the
race, but was no match for Osborne's chest-
nut over the last bit. Second place was
filled by Lovebox (12 to 1). whose strong,
though belated, run between the seventh and
eighth furlongs—she had previously been
restricted to six-furlong races—was noted
by good judges for future action.
* * * *
Selections for Canterbury Park (N.S.W.)
on Saturday :
Flying Handicap, six furlongs: Reference,
1; Bavacre, 2.
Canterbury Handicap, 11 furlongs: Ilinch-
inbrook, 1; Lady Brightlights, 2.
Highweight Handicap, six furlongs: Sug-
grapho, 1 ; Mak Siccar, 2.
Ashbury Handicap, one mile and 75 yards:
Automatical, 1; Adam Wallace, 2.
* * * *
“Down-the-line” performers were very
much in the money at Williamstown (Vic.)
on Saturday. To the disappointment of
most backers, the three jumping events were
taken by steeds well known in jumpcrs’-flat
and brush-steeple company in the subbubs,
and despised on that account. A. T. Cres-
wick’s untrustworthy beast Graball was fav-
orite for the Maiden Hurdle but, dwelling
at the start, was never prominent, Tommy
Butler’s mount, Glen Costa (4 to 1), winning
comfortably from Longworthy (8 to 1), now
one of T. M. Burke’s string, and Palais Royal
NOT DASHING ENOUGH.
BOOKIE (taking two-shilling bet in small change): “W’y didn’cher fetch yer empty
bottles an’ ’ave a REEL gamble?”
(7 to 2). Glen Costa is in the National
with 9st. 111 b. The Godby stable came at
Jollity (7 to 2) again for the Port Phillip
Hurdle, and the Comedy King gelding ran
very much better than at Flemington; but
in a great struggle from the last hurdle
Mt. Elsa (25 to 1) downed him by a head,
the topweight, Pildin (20 to 1), being a
meritorious third. The winner, a five-year-
old mare by Mountain King—Lais, had 71b.
less than her National weight, 9st. 71b.; she
completed the two miles in 3min. 41fsec.
Then Ridara (10 to 1) proved the best of
an ordinary lot in the Steeple, being fol-
lowed home by Strath Blith (9 to 2) and
the ancient Tarquil (20 to 1), and the book-
makers, particularly the specialists in
doubles, rejoiced. Ridara, who is by Ritu-
alist, sire of Gulyarri, carried lOst. 41b., and
will have 111 b. off his back at Flemington,
should he go. to the post.
The country performer Dukedom was
saddled up for the Pt. Cook Handicap, 10
furlongs, which he won two years ago, and
his party collected some nice wagers at
6 to 1 and better, for the old chap had too
much toe for Eric Connolly’s importation
Faireraft (20 to 1), Disraeli (10 to 1) and
five others, the time being 2min. Dun-
can completed a double—-he had previously
scored on Laity, an even-money favorite, in
the Juvenile Handicap—when he bustled
Norman Falkiner’s little imported mare
Archeress (4 to 1) home in the Esplanade
Welter; she had a neck to spare from T. M.
Burke's Panoply (3 to 1), Coogee Bay (4
to 1) being third. Archeress is by Happy
Warrior out of an Ardmark mare.
* * * *
R. C. Allen, owner of Wedding Eve, was
wise when he withdrew her from the Bris-
bane Cup and reserved her for the Aloreton
Handicap, 10 furlongs, in which the hand-
some little Linacre mare was nicely handi-
capped with Bst. 41b. (Incidentally, the
Q.T.C. handicapper is not too hard on Syd-
ney horses, a fact worth bearing in mind
by Randwick and Rosehill trainers.) Ber-
nesk (5 to 1) and King’s Dighton (7 to 1)
were preferred in the betting, but Wedding
Eve (8 to 1), excellently ridden by Adams,
got up in time to defeat Chryso (10 to 1)
by a head and Lucy Thrice (14 to 1) by
another length in 2min. 4|sec.—-creditable
figures. Donald and Rawhetu were among
the unplaced lot. Coin Nut (7 to 4) estab-
lished his claim to be reckoned the best horse
at the meeting by winning the Royal Stakes,
nine furlongs, from Admetus (5 to 1), The
Black Joke (3 to 1), Valamita, Kitty Pad-
dington and La Field in lmin. 52sec. It
was his second success at w.f.a. and he was
second to Kentle in the Brisbane Cup. Kentle,
by the way, has been sold to a Sydney
man for 1500 guineas; and Piastre’s son
may also come south. He has been nom-
inated for the Metropolitan.
*
“.Tackeroo” : With a six-furlong sand track
•at Albion Park and a 10-furlong grass course
at Ascot, it’s hard to follow the ’orses in
Brisbane. Prior to the Leger at Ascot, Kitty
Paddington ran third in a Plate at Albion
Park; Lyondown won. In the Leger a
week later Kitty beat Lyondown by a street.
Kentle, a bush neddy, couldn’t get a place
in a Purse on the sand track the day Kitty
failed ; he won a Novice Handicap at Ascot
in the mud the following Saturday, and two
days later romped away with the Brisbane
Cup. While they race at Albion Park it
will be ever thus. Prior to the formation
of the Brisbane Amateur Turf Club a start
was made on a spacious course at Deagon,
just beyond Ascot. The suburban cow now
peacefully pastures on the lawn, and the
new club seems to have dug itself in at the
old address. In fact, the tramway folk are
laying a loopline at Albion Park, so it looks
as if the B.A.T.C. has no intention of hiring
a furniture-van and removing the tote to
Deagon. *
Racing-club committeemen are generally
good fellows, and two of the best were Harry
Chisholm, of the A.J.C., and Dr. Ned Officer,
of the W.A.T.C., who died at the week-end.
Neither had a great deal of luck on the turf,
though Chisholm owned a Newcastle Cup
winner in Silent Way and Officer paid ex-
penses with Osseo and Char (second in Lily-
pond’s Perth Cup) and led in a W.A. Derby
winner, lluette. Before he went to Perth in
the ’nineties the smiling medico played full-
back for Essendon in the great days of that
club, when Thurgood was on the forward line
and “Tracker” Forbes in the nick; and he
was as game and resourceful a full-back as
ever saved a goal. He did not long survive his
two famous team-mates.
■f- * *
“Amateur Urger” : A bookmaker’s runner
who pleaded guilty to having taken small
silver bets in a Sydney street explained to
the magistrate that he received 2s. in the
£ of money handled, his employer being a
registered man. The latter’s name was not
published; in such cases it never is. The
pony press gives endless space to the sayings
and doings of “leviathans” who deal—mostly
with their mouths, it must be said —in hun-
dreds of thousands, but the probabilities are that
the be-paragraphed bagmen profit more by
their secret operations through agents in
streets, bars, factories, warehouses and dubi-
ous “shops” than by their dealings in the
open ring. Many a fine car has been made
possible by poor Mrs. Jinx’s misapplied
money for the vegetable John or the thrip-
penny-bit from little Ermyntrude’s money-
box.
* * Sl! Si!
“Ike McBagg”: The other day, when a
well-backed prad won a good betting handi-
cap at Manchester, all the papers were
cock-a-doodle-dooing over the wonderful per-
formance. The moke was a dopy, no-good
sort until some sticky-beaking vet.—one
Angus McIntosh, from Groperland—per-
suaded his owner to put him under thyroid-
gland treatment. This was done, and the
animal, which had hitherto been recognised
as a bookmaker’s friend, brought home the
bacon. I want to know if that’s the sort
of honest and fair dealing that should obtain
among gentlemen that is gentlemen.
If I was to get one of the boys to
put a “shot” into something I wanted
livened up or steadied, according as
the cash came, what would happen if
the stewards took a rumble? Why, saliva
swabbings, and analysts, and, perhaps, the
outer for me. with the kids and the missuses
crying in vain for their champagne with the
porridge and their diamond necklaces. Yet
here’s an owner allowed to get his prad
doped under the lap, and tear down the
hard-earned profits of as unsuspecting and
law-avoiding a set of men as ever opened up
with the text “Six to four the field.” A tough
world? Too right! Even the pony nobility’ll
be hard put to it to earn a living if this
sort of thing goes on.
M.Q. (and Rafferty) Rules
A tornado of hoots and howls greeted the
referee’s decision at the end of the 15 rounds
fought by Jim Williams (12st.) and “Tiger"
Payne (list. 121b.) at Sydney Stadium.
Payne, a 9-to-4-on favorite, got the verdict,
but did not deserve it. He attacked from
the start, and Williams, falling in side-
stepping a mad-bull rush half-way through
the first round, elected to take his nine
seconds. Yet “Sunny” won the round on
real boxing points, jabbing the face and rip-
ping the left to the body, while Payne did
not land one serviceable punch. Payne’s
furious attempts to nail Jim’s neck to the
floor of the new ring in the second (and
throughout, for that matter) were ludicrous.
Every one of these misses through the clever
evasion of the target should have gone to
Williams’s credit, but apparently boxing skill
counts for nothing nowadays. Knowing from
experience the damaging properties of
Payne’s rights, Williams boxed warily. _ On
scores of occasions he dived into a clinch
when he saw one coming, and on quite half
those occasions “Tiger” _ smashed the blow
down at the back of the incoming head. This
is supposed to be illegal, but Payne could
do no wrong on Saturday night. Certainly
Williams overdid the clinching, but his claim-
ing was clever and saved him a lot of hits
in close work.
And all the while the older coon was
scoring with straight, hooked or swung lefts
to the face, head and body. Sometimes he
smashed home effective rights; one that
caught the corner of the mouth sent some-
thing white, like a tooth, flying over the
ropes at Payne’s own corner. Payne won
the 5th and the 8th, and the 10th was
equal; the rest all went to the grimly-serious
“Sunny,” who was unmarked at the con-
clusion of the 15tli, which was one mad
flurry of in-fighting, whereas Payne’s jaw
displayed ample evidence of the weight of
Williams's blows. There was £1150 in the
(Continued on page Jfl.)
THE AVENGERS.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“Our cricketers lost the Ashes; our hockey girls
vill win them back.” —Advertisement in Adelaide
taper before the .first hockey Test.
They couldn’t keep the Ashes,
Our flannel-panted nobs;
They seldom cooked the hashes
Of Sutcliffe or of Hobbs.
We girls with ardor glowing
Another line a-toeing
Will make a better showing.
We’ll warrant, at our jobs.
Stuck up by Rhodes’s twisters.
They failed to stay or smite.
(Roll up and see their sisters
Put up a sterner fight!)
They left the Oval greyly,
From Woodfull down to Mailey,
While England chortled gaily,
As very well it might.
The Lion’s triumph rankled
At cricket, aye, it hurt.
Litlie-limbed and sturdy-ankled
Our leaping bits o’ skirt
Will give him days more rocky,
Will make him feel less cocky
When fair and square at hockey
We’ve rolled him in the dirt.
Herbie and Co., get ready
Your caps to us to doff.
No more shall Cockneys, heady
With Hobbs’s centuries, scoff.
Ours to avenge the whacking
That sent you home in sacking
When hockey sticks are cracking
After the “Bully off.”
The laurels from you wrested
O’erseas shall not remain.
With bat and ball they bested
You. We’ll remove the stain
With heftier smites and slashes.
You only shone in flashes,
That’s why you lost the Ashes.
We’ll win them back again.
N.S.W.
T. THE R.


P 4
XtWcfilcb
ê
Siiot!
MR. ALEX. CAMPBELL,
of Tamworth, N.S.W., who, in Odtober, 1926, at the
Melbourne Gun Club, won the above Championship
with Nobel-Balli&ite, killing 29-30,
USES ONLY
All-British Cartridg es
ELEY-KYNOCH
OBTAINABLE AT ALL
GUNSMITHS AND
DEALERS
275
'■rA
m
El
GOOD CUN
DESERVES A
GOOD CARTRIDGE.
$
SST*
‘V:/
04 O
Jhey are British
that’s why they're best.
NOBEL
By Royal Warrant to
HisMaieity King George V.
WAKEFIELD
m
FARM TRACTOR OIL
Specially Prepared for Paraffin-driven Vehicles.
The Tractor Likes It.
It shows its preference by covering more ground and by giving
more consistent performance.
“AGRICASTROL” seals the pistons and prevents the fuel entering
the sump. It thus retains its consistency and continues to lubricate
efficiently, when the unspecialised oil would be so diluted by the fuel that
it must be drained off as worthless.
“AGRICASTROL” protects the bearings. The “Big Ends, so
often a source of delay when an ordinary oil is used, cease to give
trouble when they are surrounded with the even-spreading film of
“AGRICASTROL.”
“Agricastrol" cuts down the
Cost of Lubrication.
It costs a trifle more per gallon but much less per square mile.
“Agricastrol” is the product of THE ONLY 100 p.c.
BRITISH FIRM of Lubrication Specialists, with
branches throughout Australia, New Zealand and
the World.
It you cannot get it locally, order it direct, mentioning your usual
supplier, from Head Office for Australasia:—•
C. C. WAKEFIELD & CO., Ltd.
The All-British Firm,
ATLAS BUILDING, 8 SPRING STREET, SYDNEY.
BRANCHES IN ALL AUSTRALIAN
STATES AND NEW ZEALAND.
6The new
His
Masters
Voice
Instruments
tm
m
«r
4 !
//
vr7 i,i
VL^
%
mw>
ms
The Gramophone Co., Ltd.
103 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
Due to scientifically evolved structural improvements, far in
advance of current Phonograph design, “His Master’s Voice
Instruments interpret the utmost tone delicacy of the artist s
original rendering.
If you are a music-lover you already know that the greatest
artists record exclusively for “His Master’s Voice.”
‘His Master’s Voice” Instruments are the only instruments capable
■>f reproducing the New Electrical Recordings to the complete
tatisfaction of recognised musical experts.
These instruments extend the range of musical reproduction by
l\ octaves, giving to highest treble and lowest bass a brilliance
yvhich has hitherto been unattainable. They give fifty per cent,
more volume than any previous instrument, and the tone is
absolutely natural.
Horizontal Grand Model 261
(Shown at right below.)
Height 34in. Length 33Jin
Depth 21|in.
Internal Fittings—Gold-plated
and Enamelled.
External Fittings-—Oxidised.
Latest Type “His Master's
Voice,” Internal Horn, Ball-
bearing Tone-arm and No. 4
Sound-box. Lid lock. Record
Storing Chamber and Record
Index Book. Automatic Lid
Stay. Double Spring Motor,
12in, Turntable, Self-setting
Automatic Brake, Speed Regu-
lator and Automatic Speed
Indicator.
In Walnut
£72/10/-
Portable Model .. .. £l2
Table Models from . . £l4
Cabinet Models from. . £33
Complete catalogues of “His Master’s
Voice” Records and Instruments, with name
of nearest dealer, forwarded free on request.
Upright Grand Model 156.
Height Width 19in., Depth 193 in.
Interior Fittings—Nickel-plated and
Enamelled
External Fittings—Oxidised.
Latest Type “His Master’s Voice” Inter-
nal Horn, Ball-bearing Tone-arm and No.
4 Sound-box Record Storing Chamber,
Automatic Lid Stay. Double-spring Motor,
12in. Turntable, Self-setting Automatic
Brake, Speed Regulator and Automatic
Speed Indicator.
Mahogany, £42. Oak, £37.
w
J
IS MASTERS VOICE


Comjbrt
Vt6itan!» Desire
with luxurious appointments in excellent
taste and every modern convenience, may
be obtained, along with quiet seclusion
and all within two minutes from the city’s
best shops and houses of entertainment —
at the Hotel Windsor, which enjoys a most
distinguished mtronage.
REDUCED WINTER TARIFF.
WRITE FOR TARIFF CARD.
™'jKote£ WuidAOt
Spring St,
Melbourne.
ë
Teleg rams and Cables:
“Telwinsor,” Melb.
Manager: B. C. Jones
Phone: Cent. 9260
'l"'.**'
Mr?,
lI.IHMJ'*"
UIW
HilU!
![2
257^
Ber f
W.T
ē
jfAji ctraiA that pleases tAe. Pa/ate
o
D
0
0
AN ORANGE ORINK
MANUFACTURED
EXCLUSIVELY BY
M.Q. (and Rafferty) Rules
(Continued from page 39.)
“house,” the management taking £575 and
Payne £400; Williams, who had yielded to
the other negro’s demand for a £400 guaran-
tee, had to be content with the rest.
* * * *
Nelson McKnight, a promising young-
welterweight from Maoriland, came to" light
at Brisbane Stadium recently. Pitted against
Frank Austin, and assessed by the heads
as a 4-to-l chance, he gave and took so
cheerfully, though not in the best condition,
that the verdict was a draw. He was then
matched with Les Robson, whom he knocked
cold in the third round with a smashing
right to the jaw. There are the makings of
a good man in this Maorilander if the
Stadium people don’t match him against
heavier and more experienced foreigners, as
they have done too often with likely young-
sters.
* * $ *
“B.M.”: Bob Fitzsimmons came to Sydney
from Timaru (M.L.) in 1887. But for his
ability as a farrier he would have had a
bitter time. He arrived without a reputation,
and ignorance could not recognise quality in
an ungainly guise. For this inability a larri-
kin of the period paid dearly. Fitzsimmons,
very religious in those days, was going to
church one Sunday morning, habited in a
long frock-coat and nursing a Bible and
prayer-book under his astonishing left arm.
Arrived in Harris-street, Ultimo, he was
stopped by a notorious bully, who insulted
him in shocking language and announced his
intention of knocking his roof off for a cant-
ing cow, or w r ords to that effect. “You want to
fight me?” inquired Bob quietly. “Well, step
into the lane ’ere and I’ll take you on.”
Into the lane they stepped, with a few of
the pushite’s friends, and Fitz., having meth-
odically prepared for battle, proceeded to
half-kill his man. So terribly did he cut
the fellow up that none of the “mob” dared
to attack him, even in force—their usual
procedure with inoffensive wayfarers. His
job well done, Robert resumed his coat and
hat, parked his books again under his
astounding arm, and walked on his unruffled
way to church.
* * * *
“Snow”: Many incidents similar to that
mentioned by “J.B.” (B. 26/5/’27) occurred
at the old Gaiety and Golden Gate halls.
When Jim Barr fought Bob Turner at the
Gaiety for the lightweight championship
Turner, though declared the winner, rushed
at Barr after they had shed their gloves and
started another twenty-rounder. Seconds
joined in, and spectators rushed the ring.
But the police had rushed it before them, and
tossed them over the ropes as fast as they
climbed in. By this time the melee was
genera], so I left. Another joyous occasion
was when Alf Reader fought Joe Grimm,
and was disqualified for trying to chuck
him out of the ring. Alfred walked across
to Grimm while the latter was still seated
and, holding one glove by the wrist, hit him
a wallop over the face with it, at the same
time questioning Grimm’s birth certificate.
The rest was riot.
* * * *
Every seat in the Melbourne Stadium had
an occupant when Ted Thye (12st. 71b.)
clashed with Billy Edwards (12st. 51b.), and,
to the grief of management and wrestlers,
thousands of cash customers had to be turned
away. It was the fastest and fiercest con-
test of the season. As early as the first
round the tempestuous Canadian was warned
by the referee and hooted by the crowd.
Thus encouraged, he strove persistently to
clamp on his headlock, but did not connect
until the third, and then Ted broke free
before any damage had been done. Thye
applied wristlocks in offence and de-
fence from every position. In the
fifth a heavy jab in the stumrnick made
Edward gasp. He sought revenge in the
manner of his tribe, but with tw r o minutes
of the round to go Edwards applied a per-
fect “splits.” Though he worked enthusias-
tically to force a surrender, the grappler from
Oregon was still resisting at the bell. In
the seventh Thye scored the only fall of
the match with a Clapham crutch hold. He
slipped it on while Edwards had him by the
head, and hurled Bill to the mat, head first,
a body press finishing the business. Strug-
gling up, Edwards charged everyone in the
ring, his seconds included, until he was
grabbed and dragged to his corner; he refused
to take his conqueror’s hand at the finish.
When his wrestling career is over —which
won’t be for a long time to come if he can
go on earning at the rate of £540 a match,
as he has done in Melbourne —he ought to be
sure of a good living on the stage.
Footbrawl
In spite of misty sliowmrs and sloppy
grounds, over 25,000 enthusiasts viewed the
collision of Richmond’s Tigers and South
Melbourne, the latter being at home for the
occasion. Play was solid and strenuous, but
Richmond's better pace and high-marking
gave it the call over the southerners through-
out and an easy win in the end —Richmond,
107 points; South, 71. Carlton was lucky
to beat Footscray with 66 points to 48; the
Tricolors had the better of the play and lost
solely through ill-directed goal-shooting.
Essendon, on its own ground, sustained its
sixth successive defeat and is doing some
hard thinking in consequence; Geelong up-
ended it with 77 points to 64. Melbourne
met North, and scored a tale which the latter
would like buried and forgotten—Melb., 11l
points; North, 27. Fitzroy scored over Haw-
thorn —its second victory this season —chiefly
by decent, systematic play ; ’Roy, 103 points ;
Hawthorn, 77. Collingwood, playing superb
football, made mincemeat of St. Kilda, and
piled up 169 points to St. Kilda’s 57 ; Gor-
don Coventry kicked 11 goals, for the second
time this season.
* * * *
The Sydney Rugby League resumed its
premiership competition on Saturday, when
the match between St. George, hitherto un-
beaten, and Western Suburbs drew a crowd
of over 20,000 to the Cricket Ground. A
lively, if not brilliant, game saw the Saints
beaten at last, by 11 to 10; a dropped goal
from full-back McMillan’s boot gave West
its lead in the last few minutes. The losers
won the ball consistently, but their inside
backs allowed themselves to be bustled off
their game, and many good openings were
messed up. If Frank Burge had been play-
ing, this fault would have been remedied.
With the wind’s assistance at the Show-
ground Eastern Suburbs clapped on all sail
and led Balmain, 12-0, at half-time. The
Tigers responded doggedly in the second
spell, and though East added five more points
their opponents collected 17, the game thus
ending in a draw. South Sydney had an
easy spin with University at Wentworth
Park, 31-14; and in a dull affair at Marrick-
ville Glebe again ate the bitter bread of
affliction, Newtown defeating the Reds by
19 to 5.
“Centurion”: No strictures of its oppo-
nents could better show up the ethics of
professional sport than the action of the
English Rugby League in repudiating, with-
out notice, its solemn undertaking not to
permit Australasian pros, to play in England
THE CHARMS OF SECLUSION.
NON-SPORTING PARSON (taking stroll across links): “How do you do, Mr. Brown?
You have chosen a delaightfully secluded spot for your game, what?”
until after two years’ residence. Before
that agreement with Australia and Maori-
land was made, as a result of strong repre-
sentations from the Australasian Leagues,
the English body had bought “Colonial”
players freely. It had, and has, no means
of replenishing its ranks save by purchase
of British Rugby Union players and “Col-
onials.” The great revival of the Union
game in Britain has cramped the League’s
market. Nearly every member of the last
All Black R.U. side in England was pursued
With offers, and the Maori team had the
same experience last year. Then came the
League team from Maoriland. and several
of these were signed up. The Maoriland
League refused to permit their transfer. Tins
precipitated the tearing-up of the “scrap of
paper,” which act of repudiation was imme-
diately followed by efforts to engage promin-
ent players in N. S. Wales and Queensland.
There will be little sympathy with the double-
crossed Australasian Leagues, and least of
all with the N.S.W. body, which founded
its fortunes on the purchase of most of the
Union Wallabies on their return from
Europe, the money being supplied from pony-
racing sources. The whole sordid happening
clinches the old-fashioned contention that
when cash pours in at the gate sportsman-
ship hops out over the fence.
The Rugby Union games provided a sur-
prise when Manly beat Glebe-Balmain by
26 to 11. Certainly Glebe was without half
a dozen injured stars, but the club had
dipped its flag to University alone this sea-
son, whereas Manly’s showing had been
modest, to put it mildly. Hard and dashing-
forward play did the trick, and the Manly
vanguard fairly ran Glebe to earth, the for-
wards scoring all of the nine tries; Louden
got four. Y.M.C.A. beat its old rival, Rand-
wick, by 16 to 14 in a showy game; North
Sydney and West drew, 8-8; University,
with a weakened team, had a hard fight with
Eastern Suburbs, but won 24-11.
The third Rugby Union side to leave Aus-
tralia for furrin parts was finally selected
on Monday. Its predecessors, the Wallabies
(1908-09) and the Waratahs (1912), in-
cluded players from Queensland, whereas the
latest combination is drawn from N.S.W.
teams only; in Tom Lawton, however, the
northern State can fairly claim a repre-
sentative, and Blair is Queensland-born. In
England, Wales and France —no games were
played in Scotland or Ireland —the Walla-
bies made a great showing, winning 25 of
31 matches played and drawing one. The
trip of the Waratahs to America was largely
of a picnic nature. The present side, though
powerful enough in the forwards, is open
to criticism behind the pack. The centres,
in particular, are weak in defence, and the
failure to provide Ross with an offsider in
the full-back position is a serious error,
especially as that great international full-
back and wing-tliree-quarter Otto Nothling
was available, though living in the country.
Neither he nor that powerful defensive
centre Morrissey, another country dweller,
was asked to play in the trials. The in-
clusion of Meagher as a utility half or five-
eighth, with two halves and two five-eighths
already in the team, is questionable, as also
is the omission of two such sterling forwards
as Windeyer (University) and Howell (New-
castle) ; Windeyer is in a class by himself
as a rucker. Among the chosen men are
one or two “dazzlers” who couldn’t push a
dint in a setting of dough, On heavy British
grounds, and against the hard and solid Old-
C'ountry forwards, these will be passengers.
The side as selected is:—Back: A. W. Ross
(Uni.), Three-quarters: B. Maimer (Glebe-
Balmain), A. O. Wallace (G.-B.), B. Egan
(E. Suburbs), E. Fol-d (G.-B.), C. Towers
(RandWiek), S. C. Ring (W. Suburbs),
A. J. A. Bowers (Rand,), G. C. Gordon
(Y.M.IC.A.). Five-eighths: T. S. Law r ton
(W.S.J, W. B. J. Sheehan (Uni.), W.
Meagher (Rand.). Half-backs: J. L. Dun-
can (Rand.), S. Malcolm (Newcastle). For-
wards: K. Tarleton (Y.M.), J. G. Black-
wood (E.S.), M. Blair (W.S.), J. Tancred
(G.-B.), H. Woods (Y.M.). C. L. Fox (N.
Sydney), A. N. Finlay (Uni.), B. Judd
(Rand.), G. P. Storey (W,S.), J. Ford
(G.-B.), E. J. Thorn (Manly), ,T. W. Breck-
enridge (G.-B.), A. Tancred (G.-B.), E.
N. Greatorex (Y.M.) and G. Bland (Manly).
* * * Ht
Though many thousands play the different
codes of football throughout Australia every
week fatal accidents are rare. The death
of 17-year-old Richard Wiseman, a Sydney
Grammar School forward, at Hunter's Hill
on Saturday is the more regrettable since
the accident which caused it took place in
the cleanest and fairest type of football
played, the G.P.S. competitions. Running
by himself out in the open, Wiseman was
seen to slip and fall backward. The poor
lad was picked up with a broken neck. Not
since the death of Reggie Schute at Manly
some years ago has the R.U. game in Sydney
had such an unhappy experience.
Queensland followed the example of N. S.
Wales by downing the Czecho-Slav Soccer
team by 3 goals to 2. It vims a fast and
lively game, and the Brisbane crowd—un-
usually large for a Soccer match —went away
well satisfied. The second Tost will take
place in Brisbane on Saturday.
In the Sydney competition, Balgownie and
Woonona played a scoreless draw. As Glades-
ville-Ryde won its game against Eastern
Suburbs it now shares leading honors with
Balgownie.
Racquet and Bawl
After a duel with Lacoste which lasted
24 hours, Tilden, invincible for so many
years, had to own defeat. The match was
the final of the French hard-courts champion-
ship, and was played at a sprinting pace all
through, Lacoste’s volleying and Tilden’s
services being features. A double-fault by
Tilden in the twentieth game of the last set
gave the Frenchman his victory: 6 —4, 4—6,
5 — 7, 6 —3, 11—0. And Lacoste and Borotra
beat Tilden and Hunter in the doubles: 4—6,
6 — 2, 6 —2, 3—6, 6 —2. So the Gallic cock
is crowing for all it is worth.
$ •!•
The qualifying rounds for the Davis Cup
in the European zone are nearing the finish.
Denmark, which outed England, squelched
India in singles and doubles at the week-end,
though South Africa held the Empire’s end
up by eliminating Germany. Landemann,
rated a championship possibility by Tilden,
went down to Raymond, 7 —5, 8—6, 6—2,
and Spence defeated the elderly Frotzlieim,
2—6, 6—4, 6—3, 4—6, 7—5. In the doubles
S’Africa won three matches to nil. The big
surprise of the round was Italy’s defeat of
France in the doubles, De Morpugo and
Destefano knocking out Cochet and Brugnon
in three straight sets. De Morpugo also
accounted for Cochet and made Lacoste go
to five sets. Had his partner been equal to
him, France would be out of the competition.
“Rest”: The women’s end of the Wimble-
don tourney this year looks like an Italian
opera co. with everyone cast for the role of
prima donna. In addition to the homegrown
product, which includes Mrs. Godfree (Miss
McKane that was) and Joan Fry, there will
be Senorita D’Alvarez of old Castile, Frau-
lein Aussem from the Rhineland, and little
Heine, a beauteous Boer. Now comes news
that Helen Wills has forsaken her literary
triumphs and is in England again; there
she has beaten Elizabeth Ryan. Helen is
the popular fancy for the women’s singles,
and most of the tennis world would like
to see her win if only for the imperturbable
way she used to take the fiery Suzanne’s
gallery play.
* :ji }{c
“Cut Shot”: Australia has just missed
harboring for a season or two a rising Maori-
land tennis star. This is E. D. (“Buster”)
Andrews, acclaimed by the Shivery Isles as
their best racquet manipulator since Tony
Wilding. Having passed his final law exam.
Andrews had an idea of coming to Sydney
for a couple of years, but, having failed to
find a satisfactory foothold here, he is going
to Cambridge instead. He has designs on
a tennis blue at the Uni., and hopes to figure
at Wimbledon next year.
* * * ❖
“Naklioda”; “Linesman” (B. 26/5/’27)
is right when he says that Badminton calls
for greater speed than tennis, and it also
calls for- harder hitting. During., the w T et
monsoon in Singapore, the game is sometimes
played to while away the time until the
tennis-courts are dry enough. The most
terrific swipe at the shuttlecock only makes
it give a little jump and then float to the
ground. To watch a foursome begin a game
of tennis after half an hour of Badminton
is highly amusing—-except for the native
ball-boys.
“Jenny”; If “Linesman” wishes to meet
Badminton enthusiasts let him visit the
Speck. Launceston has over a dozen clubs,
some with a membership approaching three
figures.
The Nineteenth Hole
“Dormy”: The Kooyonga ( S.A.) club
stages an annual golf competition of an un-
usual nature. Tins is the contest for the
“Playfair putter,” a venerable wooden relic
dating back to the days when iron clubs were
few and far between. It belonged to the
grandfather of the donor, Colonel ,T. W. Play-
fair, and is competed for in two rounds stroke
play. The winner does not take possession
of the precious relic, which abides in the
clubhouse, but a ball on which his name is
engraved is hung to the handle.
(Continued on page J)2.)


RfiM
tIQUEUB
§£
The Whisky for Connoisseurs.
GRANT’S
LIQUEUR
SCOTCH WHISKY.
Beautifully Clean, Soft and Mellow.
Public Notice.
Statutory Notice to Next of Kin.
D E PETER ROWAN, late of Doondi
* Station, St. George, in the State of
Queensland, station-hand, deceased.
Notice is hereby given that all persons
claiming to be next of kin of the abovenamed
Peter Rowan, late of Doondi Station, St.
George, in the State of Queensland, deceased,
who died on or about the eighteenth day of
March, 1927, a.d., at St. George, in the said
State, are hereby required to forward proof
of their relationship to The Public Curator.
Brisbane, on or before the seventh day of
1 lecember, 1927. After the expiration of
the last-mentioned date the Public Curator
will proceed to distribute the assets of the
said deceased amongst the parties entitled
thereto, having regard only to the claims of
which he shall then have had'notice.
Dated this seventh da^ r of June, 1927.
R. ,T. S. BARNETT,
Official Solicitor to the-Public Curator,
Treasury Buildings, Brisbane.
Legal Notice.
nro LESLIE GEORGE TAZEWELL late
of Forestville in the State of South Aus-
tralia warehouseman.
TAKE NOTICE that a Citation bearing
date the 11th day of October 1926 has been
issued out of the Supreme Court of South
Australia citing you to appear and answer
the Petition of Mary Ellen Tazewell of
Rowland Road Hilton in the said State,
married woman praying for a dissolution of
her marriage with you AND IN DEFAULT
of your so appearing you will not he allowed
to address the Court and the Court will pro-
ceed to hear the said Petition proved in due
course of law and to pronounce sentence
therein vour absence notwithstanding AND
TAKE FURTHER NOTICE that for the
purpose aforesaid you are within thirty days
from the date of the publication of this
advertisement to attend in person or by your
solicitor at the Master’s Office Supreme Court
House Victoria Square Adelaide in the said
State and there to enter an appearance m
accordance with the Rules in that behalf.
BEASLEY JAMES WILLIAM KEARNEY,
of National Chambers.
22 King William Street, Adelaide,
Petitioner’s Solicitor.
(1.5.) E. L. STEVENS,
Acting-Deputy Master.
The Nineteenth Hole
(Continued from page J/l.)
The Kirk-Windeyer Cup will not take up
its abode with Australian golfers this season,
as seemed likely to be the case when the
Maorilanders failed to score in the State
foursomes at Rose Bay, Sydney. In the
Pjay t0 decide which State should meet
Maonland for possession of the trophy, the
\ ictorians disposed of Queensland by 4
matches 112 holes to nil, and followed up
their good start with a win over N.S.W.,
2 rubbers 12 lioles to 2 rubbers 2 holes. The
final against Maori!and consisted of two
foursomes and four singles. Veteran A. I).
S. Duncan, with T. H. Horton, beat Ivo
Whitton and Alick Russell, the Victorian
cracks, by 4 up, while the All Black second
string, K. Ross and L. Quin, finished 2 up
on F, E. Headland and E. C. Sclilapp. Vic-
toria recovered in the singles, when Russell
had a tight go with Horton, winning 1 up
after his opponent had missed an easy putt
on the lStli to square the match. Headlam
also won for Victoria, with 1 up on Ross at
the 20tli hole. It remained for Duncan and
L. Quin to save the day for M.L.; in each
case the Maorilanders finished 1 up. Whit-
ton dropped back badly with missed putts
in the earlier stages; lie recovered finely, but
to no avail. Duncan was steadiness personi-
fied, and lie sank the long putts on the tricky
Rose Bay greens in edifying fashion. All-
round consistency gave the visitors their win
by 4 rubbers 9 holes: to 2 rubbers 2 holes.
* * * *
• “Iconoclast”: I was trudging wearily
round tli e Rose Bay (N.S.W.) links in the
wake of some friendly fanatics who insisted
on my following with them the something-
or-other championship. Just when the dreary
revel was at its gloomiest, a player smote
a ball to a green hill far away. Immedi-
ately it stopped a grateful urchin nipped
out from nowhere and, seizing the ball, dis-
appeared with incredible swiftness whence
he came. The smiter’s assistant pursued him,
throwing his case of implements aside. I
should have liked to see the outcome, but,
having heedlessly burst into loud applause,
was hastily removed from the arena by my
indignant friends, through a crowd of by-
standers whose lowering gaze spelt homicide.
In one of our esteemed journals I read next
morning that the miscreant had been cap-
tured after a long chase and handed over
to the police. In another I was told that
the ruffian had got clean away, but that the
eminent detectives assigned to the task were
confident of making an arrest. Anyway, I
got a laugh out of golf, and not many can
say that.
A. D. S. DUNCAN, captain of the Maori-
land golf, team which lifted the Kirk-
Windeyer Cup. He helped materially
in the victory by winning his matches,
both in foursomes and singles.
“Minus-Plus” : One touch of nature makes
the whole world kin. Reading a long appre-
ciation of golf in Germany I ascertained that
nearly all the important tournaments are
won by foreign golfers, a fact that should
help to reconcile the ex-enemy with his com-
panion in golfing misfortune, John Bull.
Even more appealing is the statement that
of 1000 German and foreign members of the
Berlin county club, less than 200 can play
golf. Hands across the sea, Fritz! There’s
not a golf club in Australia which isn’t
exactly in the same fix —and doesn't know it.
Car and Cycle
“Tip-i-addy” : Of the making of champions
1 there is no end, and in a proclaimed series
running from egg-layers to gum-chewers it
1 is difficult to draw the line. The latest addi-
tion to the roll is Franck Pearce, a Queens-
land motor-cyclist, who is credited with win-
ning a five-mile Australasian championship
; in 3min. 55 3-ssee., averaging 79.4 m.p.h.
The feat was performed on grass at the
Deagon (Brisbane) racecourse, and the time
was taken with stop-watches. Timing a
: pace of a mile and a quarter a minute with
a manhandled watch is open to error. A
creditable achievement, certainly, but re-
garded as a world’s record, which it is
claimed to be, there are objections to taking
it seriously.
"Clievroford” : Melbourne police have nab-
bed two of the young nuisances who think it
a good joke to borrow motor-cars, run them
oyer the countryside and leave them in a
ditch. The usual appeal was made for
leniency because of their youth, though, in
view of the fact that licenses aren’t granted
to drivers under 18, that is the main objec-
tion to their operations. One of the juvenile
marauders was found with 22 motor keys
on his person.
“Garry”: British motor makers are wise
in making a big effort to increase their hold
on their export markets at the present junc-
ture. Uncle Sam has had a jolt in his home
market, conditions having tightened up to
such an extent that 496 makers have gone
out of business in the last two years. In
January, 1925, 569 motor manufacturers
were competing in America. Now there are
only 77, of whom four started this year. The
concentration of the trade into fewer hands
means, under American conditions, more
economical production, and already prices
are being cut, though not very drastically.
When the full effect of the readjustment is
apparent J. Bull will have a more danger-
ous competitor than ever to meet in both
home and export fields. But the Old Man
can make the stuff all right, and he’s learn-
ing how to sell it.
* * * *
“Bowser” : Has the motor-car got to the
fully-developed stage? There hasn’t been
much progress in the last 13 years; really
worth-while innovations in the period can be
counted on the fingers of one hand. The self-
starter, four-wheel brakes, balloon tyres—
well, what else is there? And those are only
refinements. All that can be looked forward
to, apparently, is a less clumsy gearing—
the Constantinesco torque-converter points the
way—-and the perfection of the small, high-
speed, multi-cylinder engine. The trend of
design favors the English makers' ideas.
Huge, heavy cars with massive engines are
passing, and no intelligent being wants to
drive on the roads at more than 40 m.p.h. Jo
the car of the future probably will mote with
an eight-, ten- or twelve-cylinder engine, with
cylinders the size of small teacups, and will
be as much under the control of the driver
as are his own legs. It will be able to take
steep hills at any pace from a crawl to a
gallop and live on the smell of a petrol-can.
And even then old Gottfried Daimler would
be able to recognise it as his child.
Miscellaneous
“Tuan”: The Australian cricket world got
a mild shock when it heard that Oldfield’s
touring team, which is good enough to have
a chance against any State, had lost to a
Malaya XI at Singapore. Malaya made
108 and 158 and the tourists 85 and 142.
The figures have all the signs and portents
of a sticky wicket, or it may have been the
local hospitality. The Malayan “stengeh”
or “half-whisky” is as harmless in appear-
ance as it is world-famous in its effects.
“Shrewsbury”: William Attewell, who
helped to make' later Victorian cricket his*,
tory. bowled his last over in England last,
week. A medium-pace right-hander with a
faultless action, he was the most tirelessly
accurate length bowler of his time. He was
for years a member of that famous Notts
side which included Shrewsbury, Gunn,
Flowers. Scotton. Slierwin, Barnes and
others of the ’eighties and ’nineties who now
live only in Wisden. Attewell played a
considerable part in the Tests against Aus-
tralia, both in England and in this country.
He was in Australia in 1884-85, 1887-88
and in 1891-92, on this last occasion with
Lord Sheffield’s side, headed by W. G. Grace.
❖ ❖ ❖
“Town Moor”: Cocking (B. 9/6/’27) was
not the only outlet for the energies and
sporting proclivities of our ancestors while
waiting for the races to begin at Chester
and Doncaster. I have an authentic record
of a Regency buck who wagered 100 guineas
that he could produce a man who would
eat a pound of salt, a large, raw cabbage
and a cabbage-net at one sitting. He duly
collected. His stung opponent was the lame
member of the three Barrymore brothers
who were known as “Cripplegate,” “New-
gate” and “Hellgate.” These bet the winner
that at Doncaster they would present a
gentleman of talent who would eat a live
cat. Without mentioning the size of the
animal or the degree of liveliness, the record
says that the cat-eating artist landed his
hackers home-and-dried, and got five guineas
as the reward of genius.
“The Gaffer”: There has been a bit of
a controversy among peds. and their fol-
lowers over Tim Banner’s time for 81 yards
at Sydney Cricket Ground recently. The
extra-special timing appliance used made it
TIM BANNER, who has strong claims to
rank with. Postle. and Donaldson as one
of the slickest professional sprinters on
record. His rebent performances in
Sydney include 100yds. in 9 9-10 Rlsec.,
110yds. in 11 sec., and 120 in 11 4-5sec.
7 4-ssec. Banner is very quick off the mark,
but the race was run on a grass track of
anything but superlative quality, and the
same runner failed to break evens in another
race over 110 yards, Usee, being returned.
R. E. Walker, the South African, once ran
1.10 yards in 10 2-ssec.; Paddock, the
Yankee, is credited with 10 ,l-ssec. Jack
Donaldson’s fastest 80 yards on the grass
was 7 4-ssec., at Melbourne, in 1911. We
are asked to believe that Banner covered a
yard farther in the same time. If the track
was full length and the timing accurate, and
if Tim didn’t beat the pistol by a bee's wing-
beat, then lie has every right to call himself
a world’s champion. But a little faster time
in the 110 yards event would have removed
doubts.
V 'A' ❖ V
“Wingfields”: Australians may see Eng-
land’s finest amateur,sculler in action at the
next Ilenley-on-Yarra regatta. This is T. D.
A. Collett, of the Beamier club, who rowed
1922-24 in the, Cambridge eight. Winner of
the Colquhoun* Sculls at Cambridge, lie last
year beat the great Beresford in the Wingfield
Sculls, which carries the English amateur
title, but was disqualified on a technical foul.
Later lie beat Beresford in a private match,
doing the 4J miles from Putney to Mortlake
in 21min. 32sec., or only 20sec. worse than
Ernest Barry’s professional record. Later
still Collett won the European champion
sculls on the Seine at Paris. Australians
G. and S. Fairbairn, great oarsmen them-
selves, are sponsoring the young sculler and
arranging for his visit to Australia.
❖ ❖ ❖ ❖
“A.T.11.”: Wallace Bruce, the newly-
handled Lud Mayor of Adelaide, is an
athlete of some distinction. As a boy of
14 he played for Prince Alfred College in
the historic cricket match between St.
Peter’s and Prince Alfred’s in 189.3. That
was the game in which Clem Hill made 360
not out. Later on Bruce 'played for North
Adelaide, of which club lie was also secre-
tary. He has given up cricket, but very few
of his ratepayers can beat him at lawn
tennis, although he. is rising 48 and is now
in the heavyweight division.
Business, Robbery,, etc.
“S. Swag” : The jumbuck has his joy-rides
these days. Recently in Central Q. 25c
sheep were transported 220 miles in a motor-
lorry without a single casualty, and a Winton
station-holder is bringing 19,000 woollies 30C
miles by motor from the 1-ake Machattie
country. It costs 7s. a head, but the owner
reckons it’s worth it.
"Up North”: What about sponge-growing
as a side-line to the shell and beche-de-mer
industries? Saville Kent says the sponges
are already there, anti any variety can be
propagated. In the West Indies, where
sponges grow readily, a valuable trade was
built up by using imported cuttings. Our
Harrier Reef is a vast marine mine full of
riches. As yet we have barely begun to
scratch the surface.
“Pliallanger” : The Speck has given main-
land promoters a lead by floating a co. to
breed ’possums for fur. A 100 years’ lease of
30,000 acres lias been given by the Govern-
ment, and £lO,OOO has been laid out on a
factory and other buildings. Farms of this
sort are common enough in the U.S.A. and
Canada, on a small scale, for the breeding of
such easily enclosed animals as black and
silver foxes and other rare ground-dwellers,
but the Speck’s co. has to cope with a
creature that can climb anything. The pos-
sum is a mighty traveller, too.
Sandalwood-cutting, which once supplied
the South Sea Islands, especially the Solo-
mons, with more gin-drinking and underhand
bloodshed than even they had a taste for,
is a prosaic trade nowadays. Queensland and
Westralia license the cutter as they do a
milk-vendor,, and demand from him behaviol-
as circumspect. Now South Aus. is calling
for tenders to cut the stuff on its Crown
lands from July, 1927, to Jan., 1928. It is
also intended to call a conference of
States interested in sandalwood to allocate
the output of each State. It’s enough to
make any self-respecting cutter of 50 years
ago turn in his grave.
“H.1I.”: N.S.W. Millions Club advertises
the alleged fact that the Sydney Harbor
bridge will be the widest in the world—
120ft. across, with four railway tracks. 57
ft. of road and two footways, each of 10ft.
In length, however, it will rank low in
the world's list, being 3770 ft., including
approaches. The Tay bridge (Scotland)
measures 10,780 ft. over the water alone, and
approaches are extra. The height above the
water is to be 180 ft. The world’s record
structure in that respect crosses the Sioulc
River, Puy-de-Dome, France. It isn’t much
of a stream, but the bridge is 435 ft. above
the fluid.
* :|! * *
“Ivriz”: The old clippers engaged in the
early trade to Australia are now all hulks,
and even in that state are fast disappearing.
Fremantle harbor sheltered many of them,
but only a few are lert. The old Tamerlane
was shot to bits off Rottnest Island by the
Encounter some years back. The Loch Ness
shared the same fate before the guns of the
Melbourne. The old Samuel Plimsoll was
lowed out of the harbor lately and blown up.
The ship’s figurehead, which is a bust of the
man whose memorial is written on the sides
of ships, is in Perth Museum. The latest to
leave the harbor was the County of Merio-
neth, which was towed to Port Adelaide.
* * *
“Clerk”: Australia manufactures a little
bit more of the motor-car every year. Aus-
tralian Spark Plugs Pty.. at its factories
at Caulfield and Malvern, Melbourne, makes
a small but important contribution. The co.'s
struggles were long and arduous, especially
as it: set out to produce an article that should
lie all-Australian, and the porcelain required
was hard to procure. It has had to fall back
temporarily on French porcelain, but the
companion industry is well on its way. Plugs
are made for every kind of petrol chariot,
and they have fired the gas in several fine
achievements. A Schneider car, with their
assistance, covered the distance between
Broken Hill and Adelaide at an average speed
of 42 m.p.h.
* * * *
“K. 0.”: A Sydney indentor was mildly
surprised recently to receive a letter, couched
in flamboyant pigeon-Englisli, conferring upon
him the sole agency in Australia for bottle-
labels printed by a firm in Budapest. He
did nothing about the matter till one of his
travellers picked up the catalogue that came
with the letter and said he might do some-
thing with the labels as a side-line if he got
a very big commission. Five days later the
traveller strolled in with a huge sheaf of
orders and a claim for commission so large
that the indentor tore his hair. The orders
represented the fruits of calls only on
chemists. In every case Pills exclaimed that
he could not get the labels done in Australia
at double the price.


The Savings of
Leaders! -
*
a
©
WA
/
MOTOR
15
rrr
► ►
%
S3*
Iff
iiiick has
these features'.
Every Buick feature belongs to
every Buick chassis, regardless
of wheel-base or selling price.
Automatic Heat Control.
Vacuum-cleaned Crankcase.
Real Leather Upholstery.
Controllable Beam Headlamps.
One-Piece I-Beam Front Axle.
Mechanical Four Wheel Brakes.
Five-Bearing Surface Steering
Gear.
An Engine Vibrationless Be-
yond Belief.
Automatic Lubrication.
Balanced Wheels.
Three Wheel-base Lengths.
High-Speed Starting Motor.
Triple-Sealed Engine.
Cantilever Rear Springs.
Torque Tube Drive.
Duo-tone Duco Finish (with
additional option of two-
color combination).
One-piece Ventilating Wind-
shield.
Zerk High Pressure Chassis
Lubrication.
Rear Vision Mirror.
Automatic Windshield Wiper.
Thermostatic Circulation Con-
trol.
Sealed Chassis.
Framed Clear-Vision Side Cur-
tains.
Additional Options of New
Color-schemes and
1 InKnletnrioc
m
K®
What a Two Million Ownership
means to the Quick buqer
fcodaij
There are many advantages which accrue to Buick owners from Buick leadership,
and the greatest of these is value. To-day over two million motorists drive the
Buick. In its field no car can claim a comparable popularity. For the very
fact of the huge volume provides savings in production impossible in a car built
on a lesser scale. And all these savings have been devoted to the enrichment of
Buick value until to-day Buick presents in performance, in quality, in advanced
motoring refinements and conveniences far more than is available in any other
car in the same price field.
D
E
n
□
□
LJ
D
D
■A
m
m
The Standard Touring Model.
SB
The Master Touring Model.
BUY FROM YOUR
LOCAL DEALER
METROPOLITAN DISTRIBUTORS:
SYDNEY:
Mclntosh & Sons, Ltd.,
Phillip Street.
BRISBANE:
Metropolitan Motors, Ltd.
Adelaide Street.
PERTH:
Dalgety & Co., Ltd.,
William Street.
MELBOURNE:
Lane’s Motors Pty., Ltd.
Exhibition Street.
ADELAIDE:
Vivian Lewis, Ltd.,
Franklin Street.
TASMANIA:
Motors Pty., Ltd.,
Launceston and Hobart.
Jhe
which Buick
Volume Makes Possible.
Standard Models.
Model 25 Touring .. . £370
Model 24 Sport Road-
ster £405
Model 20 2-door Sedan £445
Model 27 4-door Sedan £5lO
Model 28 Coupe £505
Master Models.
Model 457 7 -pass. Tour-
ing £440
Model 54 Sport Road-
ster £5lO
Model 55 Sport Touring £545
Model 40 2-door Sedan £530
Model 47 4-door Sedan £5BO
Model 50 7-pass. Sedan £760
Model 50 Limousine
Sedan £Bl5
(At Company’s Works, all States.)
ALL EQUIPPED WITH FIVE
BALLOON TYRES
AND TUBES.
Dealers in all
Countrq Centre!.
Itpte
pD
GENERAL MOTORS (AUST.) PTY. LTD. Melbourne Sqdnei) Brisbane Adelaide—Perth


Under
Royal
Warrant
e
To H.M.
Kin -
George V
Vintage 1917.
CHAMPAGNE
Charles Heidsieck
ww&m
Australasian Agents
Swift & Company Limited
SYDNEY.
CMAMPACHC
Oiarle.sHeidsito^
TmwmmWjP
PELLISSON
Cognac Brandy.
lo YEARS OLD.
Australasian Averts—
SWIFT & COMPANY LIMITED, Sydney.
Xtt
4
•m
a:
THE WENTWORTH
CHURCH HILL.
Sydney’s Most Noteworthy Hotel.
JN the midst of the city, but sufficiently removed
from the racket to provide ideal accommoda-
ticn for the traveller in search of the perfect
hospitality.
Steam-heated in Winter. Air-cooled in Summer.
Rooms with or without Baths, or with Sitting-
rooms en suit;:.
THE DELIGHTFUL WENTWORTH CAFE
is Sydney’s most magnificent Ballroom, and the
Social Rendezvous of Smart People.
All Reservations may be made by Ringing 8W1361.
The cenfr'e of Queen s /opc/s
Soc/o/ L/fe.
BRISBANE
è
Magnificent B a 11-
room. Palm Court
and Lounges at the disposal of
guests and their friends at all
times.
Suites de Luxe —double and single
Bedrooms, with Bathrooms
attached. Hot and cold running
water and Electric Fans in every
Bedroom, and every modern con-
venience for the comfort of guests.
Teltyrains and Cables: Lennon’s, Brisbane,
Telephone, Central 5180 —10 Lines.
WOMAN'S
LETTER
SAY
Kayser
SILK OR
CHAMOISETTE
GLOVES
Goncert-goers—the punctual ones at any
rate —felt their hearts warm towards Ignaz
Friedman at the Town Hall on Saturday
night before lie played ,a note. The stocky
little bull-necked man with the incredibly
broad face trotted nimbly to the waiting
Steinway the second Lady de Chair was
seated —and that was at five past eight. He
was well into his first number while those
who crept in after the Anthem were tip-
toeing to their seats, and throughout the
evening he strove by cheerfulness, punctual-
ity and prompt attention to business to war-
rant further kind patronage.
Friedman plays not like a Grand Lama or
a dying duck, but like a hale, hearty gentle-
man, getting on in years, but still capable
of thoroughly enjoying himself. He is not
nervous. People moving about don’t disturb
him. A door banged loudly while lie was in
the 13th convolution of an interminable
Fugue and Variations by Brahms, and he
didn’t even hear it. Ilis style is always
vigorous, robust and manly, and lie can un-
leash an /// that makes the welkin sit up.
Yet he plays Chopin with tenderness. His
presto scale passages are a mere splash of
sound —in fact, he plays like a painter, lay-
ing bright color here, purple shadows there,
always with a fairly big wet brush, and
always with an eye to the effect—not to
the details that make it up.
Friedman was given a cheery welcome by
the Musical Association last week. Next to
the roll-up for Melba, the lunch-party at
Farmer’s was the biggest midday gathering
the society has perpetrated. Four long tables
full of guests took their eyeful of the great
man as lie sat by the side of president Frank
Hutchens. Frank looked so amiable that
one giddy young tiling observed that if the
timepiece above him were a cuckoo clock he
would certainly sound the woodland notes
to save the bird the trouble. Arundel
Orchard sat to starboard of the visiting
Pole, while lower down were Mrs. George
Earp (the Polish Consul’s lady) and Lau-
rence Godfrey Smith (a fellow-student of
Friedman). De Cairos Rego and Dan Car-
roll (very exouisite as to shingle and mani-
cure) were others who sipped Chablis while
the humble had fruit cup. The pianist, who
is modestly tucked away on the second floor
of the Australia, returned his thanks in
English; but the three little inclinations of
the body accompanying his speech were cer-
tainly not made in England.
Sparkling sunshine tantalised women at
Randwick on Saturday, because it had not
a hope of shedding its warmth in the stands,
through which a keen wind whipped color
into feminine noses. Still a few hardy
young things wliisked between stands And
tote‘in scanty silken raiment, while the per-
ennial blooms snuggled down into furs.
There is nothing so cosmopolitan as a race
meeting where furs are concerned; bunny
almost in the raw jostles the aristocratic
sable with a “I’m just as good at my warm-
ing job as you, anyhow,” kind of expression.
The G.-G. and Lady Stonehaven were there,
she glowing like a lovely geranium in velvet
coat and toque. The AValter Bruntons (the
feminine half in a scrumptious sable coat),
the Bayley Macartlmrs, the Dundas Allens
and the Matthew Robinsons were among
those who basked in the vice-regal presence.
Mrs. Allan Potter, better remembered as
Barbara Rowker, paraded the newest coat
from Paris —black dull cloth collared with
beige fur. There were several smart black
turnouts, and distinguished they looked
among the gay colors and bright hats.
Lady de Chair and Elaine had a whirling
week of openings and attendances. But her
Ex. got off the mark again on Sunday even-
ing when she attended the mixed programme
of devotional and entertaining music. Mrs.
A. 11. Austin delivered a sermonette, “Play
the Game,” causing more than one maiden to
irreverently remark: “That’s what we hope
Girls’ AA r eek will enable us to do, on our
own grounds.” Smilingly, Elaine started off
her week at the Lyceum Club on Monday,
when Miss Elizabeth Plummer introduced
her as president to the “Younger Set” mem-
bers of the Barnardo Homes. Lyceum presi-
dent Mrs. A. G. Thomas, in orchid draperies,
presented a Kate Greenaway posy to the
very youthful president. Both Lady de
Chair and Elaine atended Vice-Chancellor
Mungo .MacCallum’s address on Shakspeare’s
Matrons at the Y.W.C.A. Hall on Monday
night—and next morning read that the
knight’s successor as Vice-Chancellor is to be
Professor Wallace, at present of Melbourne
’Varsity.
Lady de Chair declared the new Karitane
Mothercraft Training Centre officially open
on Friday. The ceremony w 7 as the fulfilment
of what seemed a dream about four years
ago when Matron McMillan opened a little
office in Elizabeth-street; later, she was doing
her good work for babies at Karitane, Coogee ;
then a big committee got together, w 7 itli Mrs.
Arthur Allen at the helm, and an ideal home
on Woollahra Heights is the happy outcome.
There is only one fly in the syrup—a debt of
£4500, But w 7 hat is that to a committee
which raised £3500 (the deposit on the
£BOOO purchase money) in little more than
a year! Matron McMillan is director of the
training centre, and Matron Walsh is in
charge.
Dame Nellie Melba, in a crimson sleeveless
cardigan and a tiara of great size and powei*,
made a striking entrance to the Girls’ Week
Exhibition at the Town Hall. The Diva had
promised to open the evening session, and a
guard of High School girls, like little gilded
chocolates in their brown-and-gold uniforms,
were to line her path. But Dame Nellie,
unaware of the honor awaiting her, decided
to come early, and at 20 past seven, in white
brocades, rakishly topped off by the cardi-
gan, she buzzed down on a startled commit-
tee, cruised around the exhibits, bubbled into
speech, and departed. But the expectant
kiddies were lined up in good time, and
Melba departed down an avenue of spring
dressed in autumn colors. In the afternoon
her State Ex., helped by Elaine, had opened
the exhibition with suitable decorum, which
turned to enthusiasm when the wealth of it
was unfolded to her eyes.
No sultan ever had greater riches in his
stores. For thrift and industry, beauty of
color and design, dreaming and doing are
wedded in this great display of girls’ work.
From the little calico marble-bag and hanky
—“price of production 2d.” —to the thistle-
down beauty of a wedding-dress, stitchery
is represented. The age of the seamstress is
sometimes five, but of course bigger sisters
are responsible for the embroideries, the sten-
cilled curtains and the trousseaus. One
accomplished tailoress of 13 had made a grey
tweed suit for little brother. There are
models of cottage and castle, hand-painted
china and painted and polished woodcraft;
there are baby dolls in cradles, with their
layettes beside them; there are sophisticated
dolls, magnificent in fur and satin.
Here’s a newcomer to Sydney, Irene
Mulvany Gray, who brings a remnant of the
glory that w 7 as
Greece w 7 it li
her. She is a
graduate of the
f inner -Mawer
school of danc-
ing, whose
presiding geni-
us i s Ruby
Ginner, th e
London autho-
rity on the re-
vived Greek
dance. Miss
Gray has been
running a very
successful
school of danc-
ing in Maori-
land, and in-
tends to settle
in Sydney,
where she has
been engaged
by the Educa-
tion Department to teach the teachers her
methods. These are built on sound physical-
culture principles, and aim at beauty of move-
ment allied to self-expression. Miss Gray has
been rehearsing the Pageant of Great Women
of the Ages for Girls’ Week. May Moore
made the pretty picture of her for us.
There were as many turned away as won
entrance to the Conservatorium on Saturday
afternoon, when the Girls' Week committee
staged the Pageant of the Ages. Perhaps
the prehistoric lady did not wear quite so
much as the lass of the pageant depicted;
but the miss had the skins, so what was
she to do? An Oriental Princess gazing
into a crystal unfolded the history of
woman’s progress, from the Stone Age, grind-
ing grain between rocks, through the grace-
ful Grecian, the luxurious Roman, the medi-
eval, the picturesque sixteenth, seventeenth
and eighteenth, to the present day, and there
was not a woman present, young, middle-
aged and old, nor a man for that matter,
who did not agree that this is absolutely
the best time of all to be a girl. In the
glorious past we always seemed to be busy
doing something for someone else; to-day
we may still do our bit for the other fellow 7 ,
but we manage to accomplish a great deal
for our ow T n joy and comfort.
St. Paul’s College seemed the warmest
spot in Sydney on Friday night, when the
warden and students w 7 ere hosts at the
annual ball. There was a marquee on the
lawn for dancing; but the fires that burned
cheerily in the study-rooms and in the dining-
hall lured most guests to sit put. The war-
den was supported by Mrs. Garnsey in receiv-
ing the guests, the hostess wearing a remark-
able gown of gold chiffon hand-painted with
gum-nuts and leaves, finished w T itli a blue
fringe, and a gold coronet studded with
rubies. The organisers, I. B. Bell, T. G.
Vincent and P. R. Brown, presented her
with a bouquet of deep red and gold roses.
Most of the other college principals were
present.
One supposed that the prettiest girls of
Sydney had foregathered at St. Paul’s until,
peeping into the Ambassadors on the same
night, one found the C. of E. Grammar Old
Girls. But the only sign of maturity was
shown in the kindly thought behind the
dance —it was for the upkeep of the Girls’
cot at the Children’s Hospital. Beulah Bol-
ton, president of the Old Girls’ Union, enter-
tained the members of the council and the
school principal,. Miss Wilkinson. Prof.
MacCapum’s lady was among them in a dig-
nified robe of silver and amethyst brocade.
Dayne here
pictures Mrs.
David Ogilvy,
one of the
active social
workers who
have done so
much to make
Girls’ Week a
success. The
bright - faced
lady is a ten-
nis enthusiast,
and one of the
successful side-
lines of the
week was the
tennis party
at Craiglea, her
Mosman home.
She is also
one of the most
energetic o £
the Girls’Week
Ball commit-
tee.
In cohorts gleaming in purple and gold,
with blue and silver and a hundred other
glories thrown in for good measure, the
brethren of the Scottish Royal Arch Free-
masons descended on the Palais at Moore
Park last week. The mosaic of topaz, emer-
ald and ruby lights that transformed the ceil-
ing into something that might be King Solo-
mon’s mines was pallid compared with the
waves that flashed from some of the personal
decorations. Over 2000 dancers took the
floor after the pipers had skirled the State
Exes, to their pen. Lady de Chair’s brocades
were a rhythm in rose and gold, the flowing
effect being continued bv wing sleeves of
georgette caught at the wrist. A picturesque
cape in black and gold kept the draughts off
while she and Sir Dudley smiled on the pro-
cession of white and silver debs, who, led by
Mrs. Louis Packer in handsome blue-and-
black bindings, fluttered up a long avenue
arched with steel and banked by roses. Frock-
ing was gorgeous, for mother and the girls
couldn’t let dad take all the glitter from
them, and many a Mason may have to wear
his little apron sadly patched to make up
for the money spent in chiffon hose.
St. Clement’s, at Mosman, heard another
pretty bride whisper the usual formula the
other night when Doris Samuels, shimmering
with sequins and silver, and veiled in Brus-
sels lace over which billowed a mist of tulle,
married William Edward Cheesbrough. Doris
is of Mosman, and the young man from
Tenterfield. Three petal-pink maids com-
pleted the bridal procession, and the con-
gratulations were teed off at the Mosman
Golf Club under the direction of the bride’s
mother.
St. Stephen’s staged an ivory-and-gold
wedding when Marie, eldest girl of the
Arthur Utzes, of Mosman, became Mrs. Ram-
say Beavis, the bridegroom being the well-
known Macquarie-street medico. Over a
coronet of gold tissue and orange-blossoms a
golden veil of tulle, with the pleated points
finished with golden roses and butterflies
in flight, fell over a frock of gleaming ivory
satin, simulating length with a tulle border
embroidered in gold flowers. She carried a
shower of ivory hyacinths and golden roses,
and had a trio of deep goldeiwlad maids,
Patricia Hayes, Eileen and Joan Utz. Les-
lie Pollock and Dr. Allan North were
groomsmen. The Ambassadors feasted the
guests.
The parish priest of Wollongong came up
from the south to St. Mary’s Cathedral to
marry pretty Nancie Osborne, eldest daugh-
ter of the late Charles Osborne, to William
McGovern, of Guyra. Friends journeyed
by motor and train, and were rewarded by a
bridal visiod like a dawn-flushed cloud in a
shower of d’ewdrops, clasping an armful of
Radiance rosbs. Mollie Man ton (Wollon-
gong) and Nofgen McGovern completed a
charming evening picture in apple-green
georgette frocks bordered with green sequins.
The bride's mother gave dinner afterwards at
Dungowan.
Nicholas Lockyer’s son, young Nick, left
Melbourne some time ago to grow T cotton and
things in Queensland. Now he has found
something fairer than a blossom in Gwen
Hines, of Brisbane, who has promised to
share future crops with him.
The girl that a very eligible young Sydney
man never seemed to be looking for has been
found in S’Afrioa. A tew months ago Mel.
Sheffer went to the other continent to do
some reorganising of the family business
there (father is head of the co. which pro-
duces the Rexona and Plaza products), and
this week brought the news of his engage-
ment to Veronique Gale, of Durban. They
haven’t exactly grown up together, but the
two dads have long known one another in
business.
Lady Poynter, who was to have been the
guest of the Society of Women Writers at
lunch last week, was instead sent off to the
Terraces under sentence of complete rest.
Nervous indigestion is the charge.
Males predominated at the opening of the
Pans and Fantasies exhibition of Mel-
bourne artist George Neville at the Fine Art
Gallery, Boomerang House. Olive Sloan
opened the show. The lovely blonde backed
her thoughts and her words by purchasing
the highest-priced picture in the Exhibition.
“The Phantom Ship,” a grey galleon riding
ghpst-like before a brave wooden ship upon
an emerald, wind-swept sea. Olive is a bit
of a dabbler in art and is a collector of
fans. She confessed that she had intended
to buy a fan but simply could not resist the
allure of “The Phantom Ship.” The trus-
tees of the National Gallery purchased one
of the exquisite fans.
The H. E. Mclntoshes, of Gordon, gave a
few of sou Noel’s friends an early oppor-
tunity of welcoming him by arranging a party
at the Wentworth Cafe dinner dance on the
evening of his arrival from out-talking
American and English University debaters.
The youthful-looking mother welcomed the
guests in regal gold upholsteries: his aunt.
Mrs. Lance Deitrich, of Wakaya, Fiji, draped
her many inches in gold and silver lace, and
her girleen Doreen was the tallest and
youngest of the young fry, in a French con-
fection of bouffanting pink taffetas and cas-
cading silver lace.
Lady de Chair opened the Hilda Rix
Nicholas exhibition in the Hordern Gal-
leries with a smile as warm as her words
of appreciation of the artist’s prowess. The
Governor’s lady was smartly costumed in
petrol-blue and furs. The artist herself
made an uncommonly pleasant picture in a
jumper suit of ivory balbriggan with peasant
embroidery in happily-shaded red tones.
Mellow-voiced W. A. Holman announced
some of the tall Australian artist’s triumphs
abroad, mostly Paris, and marine-artist
Charles Bryant passed appreciative glances
at a sister-artist’s work.
Lady Stonehaven visited the Boomerang
House Gallery soon after her arrival in
Sydney and purchased one of John Banks s
landscapes. The same week bountiful Dame
Nellie Melba bought one of the same lucky
artist’s pictures for £l5O.
“How do women live on the basic wage?”
Women who do not have to, and cannot
understand how it is done, met at the Fem-
inist Club on Friday to exchange notes on
their findings after issuing an “elaborate
questionnaire” to the various sections of
business girls who support themselves upon
it. The census was not satisfactory, and
there was only sorrow in the plaint that
the girls had not divulged their secret.
See the dentist at a dance and you’d never
believe he could inflict such tortures, and
there was ample opportunity to study him
at the Dental Association’s dinner-dance at
the Ambassadors last week. The place was
crowded with members and friends enjoying
the 28th annual shivoo. President Falkner
Matthews brought his smiling wife, who
graced a frock of ivory crepe meteor embel-
lished with gold and silver embroideries
which toned with the wattle-gold table and
pillar decorations. An interlude in dancing
brought a happy surprise to George Fellows
when his associates presented him with a
gift for his new benedict establishment. Lena
Atkinson is the bride-elect.
Ravenswood College Old Girls’ Union also
had its dance last week. The re-union was
a happy affair of delighted exclamations and
happy handclasps. The college colors of
blue and gold decorated the supper-tables at
the Wentworth. Dr. Grace Peck, in a frock
of black satin finished with fur and French
posies, and Isobel Malloeh, flaunting per-
venche blue, were the organisers.
The Blue Ball was a joyful jazz arranged
by past students of the Marist Bros.’ College
at Darlingliurst to help the Old Boys Bur-
sary Fund. Tones of sapphire and sky-blue
decorated the Ambassadors, where Mayoress
Mostyn was the guest of the president, Dr.
Richard Flynn. Matrons and maids alike
favored sequined and beaded gowns, the large
company being all a-glitter.
Chatswood C. of E. Girls’ Grammar held
a similar gathering at the Wentworth—Miss
Elkington, the college principal, in a pretty
gown of platinum beaded periwinkle-blue
georgette.


iJARgT BROTHERS TXD
Disttiiadtiwe Gi
EiasMslk G«nft
In Hardy’
Grysttal
am
iV»»U
EStß3E£tosat@&B&
SSb9 v®\w«
BA. 8449.
Out Crystal Flower Bowl,
with holder. Height, 4:1
inches; diameter, 8 inches.
£2/18/-
5& *£lJUL^j£
■trw"
BA. 8447.
Cut Crystal Bowl. For
salads or fruit. Diameter,
9 inches.
£2/10/-
mi'
m
m
BA. 8441.
Cut Crystal Vase. Height,
7 inches.
28/-
i/i'r-jf
BA. 8448.
Set of Six Cut Crystal Goblets.
Height, 4| inches. Set of six,
£3/12/-
Extra Goblets can always be
obtained as required.
Five per cent, discount allowed
for cash.
Hardy's illustrated catalogue
will be sent to any address
post free on request.
BA. 8444.
Cut Crystal Y'ase. Height,
6 inches.
9/6
298-300
COLLINS ST.,
MELBOURNE
HARDY
BROTHERS LTD.
ZJfieV-fouse Exclusive VewelUnj
13 HUNTER STREET, SYDNEY.
And at LONDON.
116-118
QUEEN ST.,
BRISBANE.
é
ê
ë
coicrin
The Watchword
for Elegance
and Efficiency
A. Thing of Reality
“A thing of beauty is a joy
for ever” —especially when it
is an Elgin, because there we
find also usefulness, dura-
bility, and accuracy, all in
perfect harmony with beauty.
An Elgin is indeed a joy for ever
OBTAINABLE AT ALL LEADING JEWELLERS
THIS TRADE MARK
ē
IN THE WATCH CASE
ĕ
Y
ou
need
“ Reflex
Those subjects in swift movement that
elude an ordinary camera can be
“taken” with this reflex—its shutter
operates at from l-15th to 1-1000th
sec.! And what an advantage to see
the picture the instant before you
British Model 4L Ensign
“POPULAR”
IS OUTSTANDING VALUE
This Ensign model can be
adapted to use plates, film-
packs or cut films, and
takes pictures x 3\ in.
The lens is an F 4 /5 Cooke-
Luxor Anastigmat.
The Ensign “Popular” 13
supplied, with 3 single metal
slides and is of superior fin-
ish and substantial build; at
Harringtons’ price is an ex-
traordinarily good proposi-
tion.
Price from £l5
Call and inspect or write for details to
Since 1889—
the House for
GOOD Cameras
ė
Harringtons
Sell Kodaks,
Brownies and
All Kodak
Photo Supplies
Goodwill Built on Public Confidence
386 George Street, Sydney.
266 Collins Street, Melbourne.
10 Rundle Street, Adelaide.
93 Queen Street, Brisbane.
Also at—
Katoomba, Newcastle, Wellington (N.Z.) and
Auckland (N.Z.).
a aa
r
e a
tHW
Uflt=
Honolulu. Hawaii.
THE CROSSROADS OF THE PACIFIC
With its lure of love and laughter in the enchanted Isles
of perpetual Spring.
Why does Hawaii make such an appeal to the
senses? Come as others have and see for yourself.
Spend those happy 13 days on shipboard from Sydney
to Honolulu.
Relax on a gay floating city with deck sports,
music, moving pictures, unique and novel forms of enter"
tainment, American Jazx Orchestra, recline in comfort-
able cabins or lounge in steamer chairs with the
pleasantly informal acquaintances and shipboard diver-
sions.
Arise at dawn of the last day of your voyage to be
greeted by the amazing beauty which is Honolulu.
Rest a while amid a feast of color and beauty amid
a Semi-Oriental setting, yet with every comfort and
convenience of the most modern American Hotels.
Sailings every three weeks by the S.S. “SIERRA, 11
“SONOMA, 11 and “VENTURA. 11
W rite for illustrated leaflets and excursion rates.
MATSON NAVIGATION CO ■ Owners & Operators
12 Bridge Street. Sydney.
Local Agents: McIIu.ra.th McEacharn Ltd.. 94-96 William St Melbourne; 117-119 K«
William St., Adelaide; Fremantle, Perth and Albany Howard Smith Limited. Brisbane.


WestclcoC
Jack o' Lantern
16/.
swwf
10
TbcketiSeo
4
0
Glo-Ben
12 /e
Pocket Ben
%
Every minute counts
TIME plays an important part in life. We rise
by the clock ; start work by the clock ; have
regular hours for sleep, work and play. Each day
is timed. The more wisely we use the hours the
more we get out of life.
With a Westclox alarm clock in your home, and
a Westclox watch in your pocket* you can time your
day perfectly from the moment you rise till you
retire.
The trade mark Westclox on the dial is your means of identi-
fication. That’s assurance of a trustworthy timepiece. There
are a number of designs with plain and luminous dials to choose
from. Prices from 8/6 to 25/-.
WESTERN CLOCK COMPANY, LA SALLE, ILL., U.S.A.
A. Saunders’ DIAMONDS
SPECIALLY-SELECTED, PURE PLATINUM SETTINGS—
EXCLUSIVE DESIGNS.
A. Saunders’ 2 Dia-
monds, Octagon -
shaped Platinum
18ct. Gold Ring,
£2O.
11
A. Saunders’ Single
Diamond-set ISct.
White Gold Ring,
£l5.
msssk
mm
A. Saunders’ Dia-
monds, Fancy Plati-
num-set 18ct. Gold
Ring, £2O.
A. Saunders’ Dia-
monds, set all Plati-
num Wedding Ring,
£25, £BO.
A. Saunders’ Pleon-
ist Ring, set Dia-
monds, 18ct. Gold,
£4/10/-
A. Saunders’ 3 Dia-
monds, Octagon-
shaped Platinum
ISct. Gold Ring,
£l5.
A. Saunders’ Single
Diamond, Hexagon-
shaped Platinum
ISct. Gold Ring,
£l5.
A. Saunders' Diamond
Cluster-set Platinum
18ct. Gold Ring,
£4O.
A. Saunders’ all-
Platinum Wedding
Ring, £7/10/-
£B/10/-, £lO.
ISct. White Gold,
30/-
A. Saunders' Diamond
Crossover, set Plati-
num 18ct. Gold Ring,
£7/10/-
A. Saunders’ i Dia-
monds, Octagon-
shaped Platinum
18et. Gold Ring,
£l5.
A. Saunders’ Single
Diamond, Octagon -
shaped Platinum
18ct. Gold Ring.
£2O.
A. Saunders’ Diamond
Button Cluster, set
Platinum, 18ct. Gold
Ring, £2O.
A. Saunders’ 15ct.
Gold Wedding Ring,
25/-
18ct. Gold, 30/-
A. Saunders’ Lady’s
9ct. Gold Signet Ring,
12/6.
A. Saunders’ 6 Dia-
monds, Octagon-
shaped Platinum
ISct. Gold Ring,
£2O.
A. Saunders' Dia-
monds, set Platinum
18ot. Gold Ring,
£B5.
A. Saunders’ Dia-
monds, fancy Plati-
num-set, 18ct. Gold
Ring, £2O.
A. Saunders’ 9ct.
Gold Wedding Ring,
20/-
15ct. Gold, £2.
18ct. Gold,
£2/10/-
A. Saunders’ Gent.’s
9ct. Gold Signet Ring,
20/-
15ct Gold, 40/-
18ct. Gold, 50/-
Send for Free Gift Book. We Pay Postage on All Orders.
A. SAUNDERS
Watchmaker —Jeweller —Optician,
805-813 GEORGE STREET (opposite Railway Station), SYDNEY.
4
\ \
\ n
p
O
XI
c*
©<£>- /’
never had a fire /
READ the daily newspaper reports of fires that were not
expected, and beware of yonr own;security!
Even as children and mice play with matches and start
fires, so are electric wires prone to short-circuit. Spontaneous
combustion constantly ignores “No Smoking"’ regulations.
Fireproof buildings may not burn, but their contents will!
And always, the God of Chance, with a sly wink at the Over-
Confident Man, seems waiting, eagerly, to take a whack at
any fellow s who lias had a little too long run of luck.
You can never tell how or when or where a fire will start.
Your reputation for being careful won't put out a fire. In
an emergency you might better be ready with enough first-
aid appliances, carefully selected for your kind of hazards
and properly installed. -
Be prepared —your turn may come next!
Foamite Fire Protection
A Complete Engineering Service
Against Fire.
Send for Free Booklet,f : Extinguishing Oil and Other Fires.”
BELDAM PACKING AGENCY (AUSTRALIA), LTD.,
37 Sussex Street, Sydney.
ATKINS (W.A.), LTD.,
894 Hay Street, Perth.
GEORGE DOWNER & CO.,
Henty House, 499 Little Collins Street, Melbourne.
MATTHEWS FIRE ALARM, LTD.,
City Buildings, Edward Street, Brisbane, Q.
CLAUDE H. SMITH & CO.,
189 Gawler Place, Adelaide, S.A.


jo be healthy-
/ drink -
e
the finest
tonic food
drink
In 4 sizes
oFali Chemists
and Stores
n
* :
ST*
Fruit & Walnut Cake
A cake dainty of unrivalled delicious-
ness. '
Its choice ingredients include walnuts
and a rich assortment of fruits such as
cherries, sultanas, and best quality
citron peel.
The unique circular shape
permits of easy cutting with-
out waste.
In Attractively-
Ornamented Tins
of 31b., 41b., 51b.
All Grocers.
SYDNEY.
The Finest Restaurant and Dance
Rendezvous in Australasia.
PATRONAGE CONTINUALLY INCREASING.
Capacity: Dining and Supper Dances up to 1000.
For Wedding Receptions, Banquets, Dining and
Supper Dances, inquiries to Manager.
Mon., Tues., Wed., 'Fri., Special Dining, 7.30.
12/6. Suppers 10 p.m., 7/6. Value and satis-
faction without equal. No charge foi three
hours’ dancing on satin-smooth spring floors—
a new thrill of real delight.
Thurs. and Sat. T.ate Gala Nights. Continental
Dinner from 7.30, 21/-. Suppers, 10 p.m., 12/6.
This evening in London costs £2/2/- upwards.
PEERLESS ORCHESTRA OF TEN.
Bewitching Cabaret, afternoons and evenings.
Delightful Afternoon Teas. 3.30 to 5.50,' s'-
Parties of 6 upwards, 4/6; 12 upwards, if-
Two hours’ entertainment of sheer delight.
Order Wines before 6 p.m. Ring M. 3666.
Melbourne
Chatter
_ The attempt to bring the atmosphere of
Bohemia to the Artists’ Ball wasn’t very
successful, but it was determined. The
decorations were amusing. Burlesques of
well-known gallery pictures and' other comic
drawings, with some huge effigies, were
contributed by Reynolds, Pat Harford,
Edward Rowell, J. Bancks, Eileen Dent,
Carlyle Jackson and L. Sutton Jones.
A frieze of panels of subjects ancient and
modern separated by huge palettes ran round
the walls, but the lighting was poor and the
ceiling bare of adornment. Scenic-artist YV.
Coleman was responsible for the picturesque
stage-setting of a studio in Paris. There
was but little fancy dress. Secretary Dora
Andrews was in pretty early-Victorian attire,
a pink taffeta bodice over billows of white
tulle. Mrs. Elsie Barlow brought a well-
turned-out group of dancers representing “A
Night in Montmartre.” She wore powder-
blue and floral georgette as a French flower-
girl, and her sister, Mrs. Serle, figured as
a member of the Cercle des Beaux Arts. Hugh
Stewart was a French pantaloon in white
and black traversed by figures in silhouette.
George Sheridan was a chef, Dr. Bourne also
affected Gallic garb, and Charity Wynne and
Sealy Sandford were Apaches. Other dancers
were Sheila McCubbin, a bonnie lass in a
wide hooped skirt; Mrs. Monty Grover, in
rose-pink tulle; Mrs. Meredith, in a silver
and crystal robe, and Helen Rennie. The
Ivan Gutmanns, who celebrated that day
the fourteenth anniversary of their wedding,
were there, she in sparkling green. Mrs. YV.
Mortill’s frock was ruby-toned, flecked with
gold, and Mrs. Lane-Poole wore a very pale
pink gown. Eileen Dent was a gay pierrette.
International and inter-State women
hockeyites commenced a tournament on
Friday afternoon at the South Melbourne
Cricket Ground, when Baimnaland and the
Cabbage Garden shook sticks at each other,
the southerners prevailing. On the same
afternoon the Cornstalk contingent defeated
the Croweaters. Next day, though the
weather was gloomy, cold and showery, there
was a big crowd of onlookers, mostly school-
girls, at the Albert Cricket Ground, where
the English girls, captained by Miss F. E.
Bryan, made havoc of the Victorians. Half-
time the score was six goals to nil; and
at the whistle the visitors had piled up 14
goals and the Victorians had done nothing.
Their mascot was a duck, too.
Teacups rattled in the Town Hall, for the
third time last week, on Saturday morning,
when Mayoress Morell collected all the home
and visiting women hockey players and bade
them fraternise. The English maidens, who
so far have swept all before them, were
special guests of honor. Smart tailored suits
and felt hats were the rule, for the weather
was cold and damp. But the array of
bright, healthy, bonny faces made the
mom shine. Team colors were dis-
played in wee woollen posies. There were
speeches by the Mayoress, Mrs. Britomarte
James, and Dr. Gwyneth Buchanan, president
of Victorian Women’s Hockey Association;
and Miss E. Thompson, president of the 'All-
England Women’s Hockey Association, who
was one of the brass-hats of the Waacs in
war-time, gave thanks.
Mrs. H. S. Crocker, who for five years has
been president ot the Women’s National
League, was given a diamond ring by mem-
bers the other day, on her retirement, and
many glowing words were said about her
able and fearless leadership. Mrs. Crocker’s
interest in the league has endured for 23
years, and she has during that time filled all
offices of the executive. She remains a life-
member of the council. Nationalists, headed
by S. M. Bruce, attended the party in her
honor at the Independent Hall, the gathering
including Granville Ryrie, Dr. Argyle, Harry
Gullett, J. G. Latham, the new president of
the A.W.N.L., Mrs. Claude Couchman, and
Mrs. Bolitho, organising secretary of the
league, were some of the speakers.
The other afternoon Melba spent an hour
listening to some of the budding songsters at
the Albert-street Con. The diva was kindly
and helpful in criticism; and a couple of
pupils whose offerings pleased her particu-
larly were bidden to repeat them, so that
certain blemishes might be ironed out. She
played the accompaniment to an aria she has
made famous, in order to give a student the.
Melba touch. Eileen Thompson, whose sing-
ing of “Charmant Oiseau” was pronounced
“very good,” was singled out for a word of
praise for her memory-singing at a recent
concert. Jean Hambleton, of the fine physique
and niezzo-contralto notes, came in for special
approval, and Alice Mallon’s soprano was
found acceptable. Contralto Ida Walker’s
offering received the cachet of “beautifully
sung.” Greta Callow, of Adelaide, winner
of one of Madame’s scholarships, and Maisie
Ramsay were heard and complimented. The
recital ended with some sensible words from
the great one on the subject of the care of
the teeth.
The Arts and Crafts’ Society has staged
a show in the form of a living-room and nur-
sery furnished according to art-crafty
notions. There is a frieze of elephants and
camels and other delectable mammals in, the
nursery, a collapsible dolls’ house brigjhtly
colored and decorated kindergarten furniture,
rag dolls, a dresser with pretty pottery, and
cot quilts and pillows adorned with nursery
rhymes in cross-stitch. A crouching teddy-
bear by potter Merric Boyd forms the door-
step. Furniture of Italian design is the
equipment of the lmng-room, the cosy fire-
place of which is embellished with tapestry
bricks. Writing-desk, book-cases, card-table,
trifles in tooled leather and a wrouglit-metal
lamp are among the articles that give the
room distinction. Melba opened the Show,
wearing a tan-colored cloth coat trimmed
with fox fur, a black gown and a black hat.
Tranthim Fryer and Evelyn Syme spoke for
the A. and C. and congratulated the Diva
upon her G.B.E.
Priminister Bruce’s wife, who was until
recently president of the Melbourne Hos-
pital Red Cross Auxiliary, put on the kettle
at her South Yarra home last week to pre-
pare for a talk with feminine friends of the
institution concerning the best way of raking
in £50,000. A ball at the Embassy on July
29 was planned. Office-bearers elected were
the Russell Clarke lady, president, with Mrs.
Fred Krerouse and Betty Shackell as hono-
rary ticket-secretaries, and Dorothy Mollison
as hon. sec.
A gathering at Robert Knox’s home,
Greenknowe, in honor of Dr. Stanley Argyle’s
wife, just home from America, had to
take place in the absence of Mrs. Knox, who
was down with ’flu. The guests were drawn
chiefly from branches of the Alfred Hospital
Auxiliary, Mrs. Argyle being president of
the Toorak and South Yarra section. The
auxiliary’s concert-party did the entertain-
ing and Matron Mann spoke feelingly of the
auxiliary’s noble work in keeping the linen
cupboard and pantry stocked.
A Lalique dessert service of crystal was
spread upon a Louis Quinze table in the
reception-room of the Mayoress at the Town
Hall one afternoon last week. It was a Con-
gratulatory gift from the aldermen, council-
lors and principal civic officers, the occasion,
of course, being the handle applied to Mayor
Morell after the royal visit. Alderman
Elliott’s wife made the little speech, and
the pleasure of the recipient was unfeigned.
The popular conception of a blue-stocking
vanishes at sight of the comely face pictured
here by Lafayette. It belongs to Dr. Vera
Robinson, a June bride and a graduate of
Queen’s. She
i s associated
with the Alfred
and Quc e n
Victoria hospi-
tals and spe-
cialises in the
ailments o f
women and
children. Her
lithe, trim
figure is often
seen on the
tennis - courts,
where she has
picked up
more than one
trophy. She
changed h<>r
n a m e from
Cook to Rob-
nsou in ivory
satin garnished
with Chantilly
lace, a mist of
tulle and clusters of orange-blossom. Edina
and Rita Robinson and a sister attended her
in taffeta frocks that made a rainbow of
color. The bridegroom is the only son of
the A. H. Robinsons, of Croydon, and his
bride is the elder daughter of the C. S.
Cooks, of Vincent-place. ,
Donors of linen to Queen Victoria Hospital
met at Scott’s one afternoon last week, and
the big dining-hall was crowded with tea-
drinkers who had paid their footing with a
sheet or a towel or two. Jean Hamilton,
violinist Gertrude Healy, tenor Norman Brad-
shaw, Phyllis Thomas and some others pro-
vided a musical menu. Mayoress Morell and
daughter Sheila, the Irvine lady, Mrs. Harry
Emmerton, Judge Brockman’s wife, the
Mcßeath lady and Mrs. Clarence Marriott
were there. !
Mollie Locke, as Eliza Doolittle in Shaw’s
“Pygmalion,” a Little Art Theatre produc-
tion of last week, showed good clothes sense
as well as acting ability. She contrasted her
unshingled Titian locks with a wrap-coat of
emerald green velvet with light fur and a
dark brown velvet hat, and her evening-gown
was an effective affair of crystal and mid-
niglit-blue sparkles and jingling black
sequins. Her frock of the last act had a
sleeveless black taffeta pointed bodice that
blended into black and white striped georg-
ette. Hettie Feuerman and Daisy Bradley,
who appeared alternately as Mrs. Higgins,
also chose their dresses intelligently.
Muriel Starr supplied the best thrill of the
night when, after the performance of her new
Yankee crook piece at the Princess on Satur-
day, she announced that “East Lynne” comes
next. She promised that there should be
plenty of weeping, too, and the drapers are
expecting a boom in swanky hankies. The
“House of Glass” is well staged and gives Miss
Starr the opportunity of wearing a couple of
frocks in the early spring' mode^—black,
blended with a light patterned material. The
most striking is of bldck crepe de Chine with
a cape drapery, lialf-sleeyes, and apron effect
in coral-pink hue, splashed with a darker
design. The house was well filled. Mrs. A.
V. Kewney’s pink-and-gold hair-decoration
blended with her velvet cape. Mrs. Plunkett
and her two sons, the Stuart Brunton couple,
the Percy Blackbourns,?.Dr. Barry Thomson
and his wife, and Mrs. Douglas Stevtart were
there.
The pretty lass in floating tulle pictured
here by Ruskin is Marie Bremner, whose
brief appearance at His Majesty’s last week
in the title-role of “Rose Marie,” in which
she - under-
studies Har-
riet Bennet,
was an en-
tirely success-
ful e xper i-
men t. Th e
in a n a gement
advertised the
tchangc quite
frankly, au d
the box-office
didn’t feel any
pinch at all.
Though it ap-
peared fr o m
the ease with
which she sang
th e score
she’s a mezzo-
soprano-—that
it had been
transpos ed
down half a
note or so, the
result was charming. Miss Bremner, who is
Melbourne-born, is a product of Albert-street
Con., where sue won a Melba scholarship.
She just looked down on the footlights in
the chorus of the last grand opera company
and then did some touring as one of the
Grand Opera Quartette. Then she gradu-
ated to the role of one of the three sisters in
“Lilac Time,” and was billed to take the
leading rOle for the Maoriland tour, when
she was called to understudy Miss Bennet
in “Rose Marie.”
Iceland poppies and the fire’s cheery glow
brightened the club house at Ivooyong Tennis
Courts on Saturday night, when one of the
club’s 'hops was held. Several pretty frocks
were noted, taffeta being the favorite mat-
erial, and there was a decided leaning towards
the early l Victorian mode. Mrs. Dick Bal-
lard was in a flowered taffeta gown, and
Peggy Hiskens chose taffeta of old rose hue.
A deep wine-toned georgette gown suited
Mrs. Noel Brodribb’s brunette coloring.
Doris Swanney’s glittering gown was worn
with a sleeveless bridge coat of white satin, em-
broidered at intervals with wee posies.
Muriel and Lilian Carr, just back from a
round-the-world jaunt, displayed what were
evidently some purchases made abroad.
Muriel’s black robe had a plastron of gold
and was allied to a short Happi coat —that’s
what they call ’em in Honolulu—of black,
with embellishment in pink. Her sister’s
gown, also of black, was appliqued with
blossoms in pink and blue shades. Marie
Bremner, enjoying a night off. wore pale
blue with relief in moonlight blue sequins;
and Vera de Bavay was a’study in shades of
pink in pailettes and tulle.
At the annual meeting of the Melbourne
Music Club at the Lyceum rooms last week,
the business was pushed through quickly,
and the rest of the evening was devoted?to
listening to Mrs. Ernest Scott, who talked
about the music she had heard during her
travels. Her blue gown had tracery of floral
design in crystal and pink beads, and she
spoke scathingly of modern musical tenden-
cies. She had brought her gramophone,
and illustrated her remarks with records.
Mrs. Max Pirani (Leila Doubleday), who
wore a white satin frock embroidered in
crystal and silver beads, with a white fur
wrap, was given a welcome home; Hon. sec.
Muriel Campbell had a sparkle of diamente
upon a black robe beneath a cape of flame
velvet.
The late W. F. Manifold was a strong be-
liever in the housewifely virtues, and when
he left some thousands of pounds to add a
new wing to the Janet Clarke Hall of our
Uni. he made it a condition that every resi-
dent student must take a course in Domestic
Arts. The addition to the hostel is now
nearing completion and will be fitted with
every sort of cooking appliance a woman is
likely to encounter, even to an old wood stove.
There’s to be a variously-equipped laundry,
too. The finding of £3OOO required for this
equipment was discussed by a meeting of
women convened by Mayoress Morell one
afternoon last wefek. Lady Somers, who is
official visitor to the college, Archgaiters
Lees, Miss Margery Herring, principal of the
Janet Clarke Hall, Miss Gilman Jones, Rus-
sell Clarke, son of the founder of the hall,
and his wife, the Clarke and Maudsley ladies,
Mrs George Landale, Dr. Stawell and his
life . partner and Canon Snodgrass were
there. A committee was formed with the
Mayoress as president, Betty Fairbairn hon.
sec., and Baynes Dickson, an old Trinity
College student, hon. treas. Teacups were
handed round after it had been decided to
make a straight-out appeal for subscriptions.
Miss M. M. Guthrie, who doesn’t like lime-
light, had to stand in it last week while her
portrait, painted by Rupert Bunny, was un-
veiled in the Fishbourne Hall of the Talbot
Colony for Epileptics. For 25 years she has
been honorary secretary of the institution,
and president Donald Mackinnon commis-
sioned the portrait by way of showing appre-
ciation. Mayor Morell handed over the gift,
the ceremony being attended with the usual
tea-drinking.
Lindsay Biggins, a Melbourne Uni. gradu-
ate in music, is packing his trunks for a
sojourn abroad. His promise is such that
the Uni. pays liis passage, and arrangements
have been made for him to study under Max
Pauer at Leipsiz Con. Last week a meeting
was held to give a helping shove to a fare-
well concert on July 15.
Friends are filling a purse to help fiddler
Margot Macgibbon, who is going to pursue
her studies in England and on the Continent.
The young player shows great promise, and
musically she is versatile. She gained a
pianoforte scholarship that will take her to
tile Royal Academy, and she lias a well-
trained, tuneful voice. Melba is a strong
supporter, and has earmarked for Miss Mac-
gibbon the £5O Greville Scholarship, which
is awarded at Madame’s discretion. A fare-
well concert is being arranged.
May Brookes, who broke last year’s record
at the Belgrave motor hill-climb, is now look-
ing ahead of her wheel in Europe. After
sampling the roads in Germany and Holland
she was to have toured Switzerland, but a
frost-bite cured her of the ambition. After
tooting through France she intends to see
the banks and braes of Scotland. She plays
golf, too, and will take her clubs to the home
of the royal and ancient pastime.
Melbourne Hospital nurses are doing their
bit towards raking in the £50,000 needed for
extending the institution. The other evening
they put on a jolly dance in the out-patients’
hall, which drew plenty of outside patronage.
President Danks brought his daughter, whose
black robe was traced in leaf design in
autumn shadings; and Surgeon Syme and.his
lady were there, she a-glimmer in silver and
gold tissue. Secretary Teece’s wife; medico
Victor Hurley’s life partner, and a host of
doctors’ wives and daughters took the floor.
The lady superintendent. Miss Bell, was of
the party gowned in black satin.
Olive Porter, of Wangaratta, has said “I
will” in Africa to Dr. Carl Tekima. He is
a Hollander practising in the Transvaal.
A trim edition of Mrs. Bruce Smith
has been delighting her friends after four
years in Kenya, where lions roam the high-
way—sometimes. But Mrs. Bruce likes it.
for since marriage she has made her home
there. Very soon she will have a sister settled
within reach of an occasional call, for Dorothy
lately said “I will” to Captain M. C. Hoole,
whose job is in Ivaronga, Nyassaland, where
he is Assistant Resident Commissioner. The
Bruce Smiths, who will be holidaying in Aus-
tralia till the end of the year, have made
a dash across the Tasman to see his family.
Melba has been so overwhelmed with let-
ters of congratulation upon her G.B.E. that
she cannot reply individually and has asked
the newspapers to explain her position. By
the way, a kiddie who was asked “What
has Australia produced?” in an examination
• aper the other day, pondered long and then
v : jte : “Wool and Melba.”
Since her return from Sydney Eileen Dent
has been kept busy with portrait commis-
sions, but has found time to do a water-
color sketch of a bit of Victorian bush as a
gift to Duchess Betty. One of the young
painter’s most recent sitters was Federal
Speaker Littleton Groom, who was done in
charcoal.
A beginning will soon be made with the
building of Xavier College (Kew) memorial
chapel. The jubilee is to be celebrated next
year, and plans are being made to snare
some of the hatted and mitred ones coming
to Sydney to take part in the Eucharistic
Congress so that they may join in a com-
memoration ceremony. Digger Schrader,
sec. of the Old Xavefians, is making a drive
to get a thousand members into his organi-
sation for jubilee year.


Only those who drive
ANew STUDEBAKER
Custom Sedan
enjoy these exclusive »
è
T he New Studebaker One-piece
Windscreen is of a new no-draught,
ventilating, weatherproof type, exclu-
sively Studebaker. It deflects air
currents over heads of passengers, or
into the driver’s compartment as
desired Position controlled by con-
venient lever above instrument board.
For discriminating motorists
whose choice proclaims
good taste and sound judgment
Studebaker has built these
beautiful New Custom Sedans.
They are cars which evoke both admira-
tion for themselves and respect for those
who own them. Settling low over disc
wheels, these master custom creations
represent a perfect combination of
aristocratic beauty, pronounced distinc-
tion and luxurious comfort.
Yet their graceful elegance is only symbolic of an
unexcelled performance. The wealth of flexible,
vibrationless power which flows from their quiet,
improved L-head engines, gives Studebaker owners
that smooth, rapid mastery of distance which
alone brings truly restful transportation and
abiding satisfaction.
New full-vision body; new 26-inch door openings; new
four-wheel brakes, disc wheels, balloon tyres : new oil
purolator ; new waterproof ignition system ; new two-beam
acorn headlights.
New Reduced Prices ol Studebaker Quality Cars:
Open Cars from i3BO to £blS. Closed Cars from i4bS to £BIS
New Reduced Prices ot New Erskine Six Fine Small Cars:
Custom Models : 4-door Tourer, 4310; 4*door Sedan, .£370
West Australia and New Zealand Excepted
STUDEBAKER BUILDS ONLY FINE QUALITY CARS
Australian and New Zealand Distributors:
é
The New Studebaker One-piece
Windscreen is so construdted that,
when tilted for cowl ventilation,
water cannot enter driver’s compart-
ment. Hidden troughs are provided
beneath the cowl to carry it off.
The advantage of this feature in
rainstorms is quite obvious.
Studebaker Corporation of Australa ia, Limited, 165 Elizabeth Street, Sydney.
Turner Brothers, 396-400 Swanston Street, Melbourne.
Canada Cycle and Motor Agency (Q.) Limited, Creek and Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
Duncan and Fraser, Limited, 42-48 Franklin Street, Adelaide.
Sydney Atkinson Motors, Limited, 41-45 Pier Street, Perth.
Island Motors Proprietary Limited, 76 Murray Street, Hobart.
Adams Limited, 152*154 High Street, Christchurch.
Local D alers at all Important Towns
V
<5 $
IS
WMBS


HARBOR TOURIST TRIPS
t
Weather and other circumstances permitting.
Prom Fort Macquarie at 10.15 a.m. and 2.15 p.m.
EVERY TUESDAY AND EVERY THURSDAY.
Tares: All-day, 3/6; Half-day, 1/6, Children, 1/- and 6d
Luncheon by reservation at Clifton Gardens Hotel Afternoon Tea on Hoard
SPECIAL TRIP EVERY SUNDAY .tap No. 6 JETTY, CIRCULAR QUAY
Adults, 1/6. Children, 6d.
Tels.: 86276 (4 lines). Bydney Ferries, Ltd,
Legal Notice.
Statutory Notice to Next of Kin.
D E ROBERT PRICE formerly of Barclay
•*N Downs and late of Urandangie Cut
Brisbane in the State of Queensland deceased.
NOTICE is hereby given that all persons
claiming to be next of kin of the abovenamed
Robert Price formerly of Barclay Downs and
lute of Urandangie Cut Brisbane in the State
of Queensland deceased who died on or about
the twenty-eighth day of June 1920 A.n.
at Brisbane in the said State are hereby
required to forward proof of their relation-
ship to the Public Curator Brisbane on or
before the tenth day of December 1927.
And that after the expiration of the last-
mentioned date the Public Curator will pro-
ceed to distribute the assets of the said
deceased amongst the parties entitled thereto,
having regard only to the claims of which
he shall then have had notice.
Dated this tenth day of June, 1927.
R. J. S. BARNETT,
Official Solicitor to the Public Curator,
Treasury Buildings, Brisbane.
Missing Friends.
TAMES FRY, late of Hurstville, N.S.W.,
J brother to William John, Leah, Amelia,
communicate to advantage with Hollis,
Werona, Lintliorpe Street, Newtown.
Legal Notice.
MOTICE is hereby given that ANNIE
WINTER of Kandy Ceylon has in-
stituted an action No. 34950 in the District
court of Kandy Ceylon for a dissolution of
her marriage with WILLIAM EDWARD
DALY WINTER presently of Townsville
Wowan Queensland Australia and for the
custody of children and for the recovery of
costs of suit on the ground of malicious deser-
tion since the year 1924 AND it is further
notified that unless the said William Edward
Daly Winter do appear before this Court
within sixty (60) days from the date of
publication of this notice and take necessary
steps to defend the said action the same
will be heard and determined in his absence.
By order of Court.
(S’d) P. MORTIMER,
Secretary.
District Court, Kandy, Ceylon,
20th March, 1927.
,5*
V"
21/- Men’s
Pullovers for
13/6
at Murdoch’s Rebuilding Sale.
Don’t miss this! Exclusive |Pullovers,
Pure Wool, Smartest of Colored
designs.
Postage paid to Your Door.
Call or write to Desk R. Ask for Catalogue
MURDOCH’S IN PARK ST. LTD., SYDNEY
IfoartfoitoZ- 5 f
THIS IS A
HILL FOR
ZENITHS
POWER ON HILLS” —that is
only one advantage of the one
and only ZENITH ! Other advan-
tages are quicker acceleration, greater
economy on petrol consumption,
smoother running at all openings of
the throttle, surer slow running, more
power at Spe-e-d.
Special models obtainable for all
popular cars, such as Chevrolet,
Dodge, etc., which can be fitted
quickly by any mechanic.
Fit
7EWITIh
CARBURETTER
Write for ZENITH booklet to-day to —
BENNETT & WOOD, LTD Sydney
ALEXANDER MAIR & CO. PTY., LTD. .. Melbourne
MARTIN WILSON BROS., Ltd. .:...... Brisbane
A. CL HEALING & CO. PTY., LTD Adelaide
HARRIS SCARFE & SANDOVER, Ltd Peitb
ZENITH CARBURETTER CO.. LTD..
40, Newman Street, LONDON, W. 1. Eng.
FIT IT SET IT—THEN FORGET IT.
WHERE THE RUDGE-SPORTS
GETS ITS SUPREMACY
80 MILES AN HOUR
■
W
RUDGE-WHITWORTH PATENT PROPORTIONAL
COUPLED BRAKES
Reduce the bogey of skidding to a minimum.
MECHANICAL LUBRICATION
Ensures the engine being always
properly “fed.”
FOUR OVERHEAD
VALVES
INTERCHANGEABLE
WHEELS
Save roadside troubles —you have
the advantage of a spare wheel
like a car.
FOUR SPEEDS
Give amazing power and valve Give you the exact gear for every
reliability. variation of road, load and speed.
There are two other 4.99 h.p. models, the “Standard” and the
« Special.” All models fully maintain the world-wide reputation of
Rudge-Whitworth for high-grade workmanship, and every detail has
been designed for the utmost comfort and convenience of the rider.
FACTORY REPRESENTATIVE: JAMES THORNELL, 312 PITT ST., SYDNEY, N.S.W.
Full particulars of all models maybe obtained from— Sydney: Biden and Roberts*
150 Hay St. Melbourne : Rogers Bros. Ptv. Ltd., 305 Swanston St. Brisbane :
Canada Cycle and Motor Agency (Q’lani) Ltd., Creek St. Adelaide : Behrens
Thicm Co., 3 Devon House, Chesser St. Perth : Flower, Davies and Johnson,
404 Murray St. Tasmania, Hobart :J. Bilyard, 110 Elizabeth St. Launceston:
Carl Mantach, no Charles St.
ê
Rudge- Whitworth Ltd Coventry, England
The Little Sisters
Lennon's Hotel
BRISDANE
The Centre of Queenslands
Distinguished Sociel Life!
QUEENSLAND.
Brisbane.
Heifetz had a night of wild rain and cold
winds for his opening concert. But the book-
ing was warm, and each succeeding concert it
grew warmer—the last night was a triumph.
Or. the first night Chief Justice Jimmy Blair
and his wife had a box; their guests included
Mr. and Mrs. Daly (she is the composer of
a number of songs) and Mrs. Iluybers.
Now we are welcoming Warde Morgan,
an earlier intended visit having been vetoed
by the Aberdeen railway disaster. With
Marie Burke he will play in “Frasquita” and
a revival of “Katja.”
Dr. Jean White-llaney has retired from
the presidency of the Lyceum Club, and wise
choice has fallen upon Mrs. Firmin McKin-
non, who is also active in the interests of
the Bush Book Club, in connection with
which she shortly will go north.
On the site of the new cathedral Arch-
gaiters Duhig turned the first sod. Set high
above the city and overlooking the river, the
fane will add to the beauties of Brisbane.
The cathedral is to be Australian-made, only
local materials being used. Mayor Jolly was
present at the function, and he turned the
second sod, T. C. Beirne the third*.
St. Agatha’s, Clayfield, saw the wedding
of George Hammond, of Hammond Downs.
West Queensland, to Lilian Anderson, of
New Farm. The bride was in silver lame
with an overdress of sequins and beads. Her
train was of silver lace over satin, and her
veil of silver-embroidered tulle. She carried
pink and white roses. Her sister, Mrs. J.
Barr, was matron-of-honor in gold silk lace
over satin, with an autumn-tinted posy. Miss
A. Colbourne, in silver lame with red roses,
and Miss S. Cartwright, in ivory mariette
beaded in silver with a bouquet of pink roses,
were the maids.
Federal Speaker Littleton Groom’s mother
was 89 on the Bth. As Grace Littleton she
came to Toowoomba more than 70 years ago.
She remembers the time when soldiers were
stationed in blockhouses at the foot of the
Toll Bar-road.
For May Moxon, who is marrying O. Sven-
sen soon, there was a tea-drinking in Rowe’s
amidst pink and blue bon-bons and flowers
to match. Mrs. Lucas and daughter Sybil
were amongst the throng.
Cup day drew a crowd to Ascot and the
gay winter blossomry did its best to vie with
the gowning. The committee entertained Mrs.
R. C. Allen (Sydney) at luncheon in the
private verandah. Other guests were Mrs.
Isaifc Moore, Mrs. D’Arcy Win ten and Mrs.
Crothers, Alice Hawthorn and E. O’Shea.
Mrs. Allen was in black crepe de Chine with
touches of jade, Mrs. Oadell-Garrick chose
tan with coral facings, Mrs. Austin Lennon
ourgundy with fox furs, Mrs. R. Sinelair-
Smith bois-de-rose, Mrs. Towran Barton
mauve with fox furs, and Mrs. F. K. Brod-
ribb a striking ensemble of cream and ver-
milion.
This is a little picture of Luis Amadeo
Pares, and you’ve seen his name dozens of
times in this letter. He is a professional
musician who
lives for his
art and won't
be happy till
lie sees Bris-
bane with a
good perma-
nent orchestra.
For a begin-
ning, seeing a
rather impos-
ing lot of vio-
linists her e,
he is organis-
ing them, inci-
dentally giving
instruction to
such as need it
for his violin
orchestra. He
is busy also
with a scheme
for the estab-
lishment * o f
a sort of per-
manent gallery where artists, local and visit-
ing, may invite the red seal of purchase.
The of Enid Tardent, the
pianist, to Mark Fogarty is announced and
the wedding is to be in a few weeks’ time,
though the winsome bride is still in her
’teens.
The Country Press Cafe was filled with
members of the Returned Limbless Sailors
and Soldiers’ Association to farewell Mrs.
Ted Theodore, a good friend, who goes south.
Sunflowers and poinsettia decorated. M.
Phelps and Mrs. Warne received. A re-
turned-soldier patient at Rosemount made the
trinket-box of Queensland woods that was
presented to Mrs. Theodore.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA.
Adelaide.
The Hunt Club settled down to its winter
programme in earnest on a recent fine morn-
ing, the scene Buckland Park and the quarry
real live foxes instead of an aniseed rag.
In the interval between putting up a couple
of foxes there was lunch with the E. A.
Brookses; the riders included the Governor
and Mr. Brooks and his two daughters. There
were road-followers in plenty, put somewhat
out of their stride by the vagaries of an
animal which led the hunt all over the place
instead of following the well-planned route
of a drag.
The Repertory Theatre’s performance of
Somerset Maugham’s “Circle” added another
to the list of Ethelwyn Robin’s successes in
character parts. As the one-time Lady
Catherine Champion-Cheney she was her
best; and Ray Walsh, as her jettisoned hus-
band, gave her good backing. A South
Australian Orchestra concert on the same
night drew Lady Bridges. The “Valse Triste”
of Sibelius was the most popular item of
a “popular” programme. The orchestra, by
the way, is hunting for funds, and unless it
gets them will have to close down. Three
thousand isn’t much to ask from a village
as musical as this is alleged to be, especially
when as quid pro quo each year brings a
series of excellent concerts.
Mrs. Sidney Ayers, Estelle Edwards and
Mrs. Duncan-Hughes, with whom is Wilma
Clarke, are voyaging overseas.
There was a mayoral reception for the
Ryries as they passed through, and a family
re-union with the Nat Campbells. Feminine
English hockey players were made civically
welcome, too, prior to trouncing us. A
hint from their captain to local players was
against over-caution and a too-constant de-
fensive.
II e re’s a
beautiful maid,
Barbara Ham-
ilton, a leader
among those of
her years, and,
like so many
other Adelaide
girls, already
turning her
thoughts t o
good works.
The much-
needing and
needed Lady
Victoria Bux-
ton Girls’ Club
gets the pro-
ceeds from a
jumble sale
organised b y
Mr s. Arthur
Lewis and Mrs.
Guy Makin in
the Exhibition
Building. An SOS brought in everything
from odd saucepan lids and ancient kitchen
forks to the last word in discarded millinery.
The engagement is announced of Joan,
elder of the William Glasgows’ daughters,
to lan, son of the H. P. McLachlans and
a nephew of the Senator.
Junior Red Crossites have undertaken to
raise funds for a home where weakly and
ailing children may be coaxed back to fitness.
Twelve circles are already on the war-
path, and by the end of the year it’s hoped
there’ll be a hundred.
Bananaland’s new Excellencies spent the
day at Government House as they passed
through—the two Governors picking up the
threads of an acquaintance dating from the
days they were at Newton College together.
WESTRALIA.
Perth.
Lilian Crisp was submerged in flowers and
greenery the night she played Patti Rus-
sell’s part of Phyllis in ‘Tolanthe.” Baskets
of ferns, posies, big bouquets, boxes of choco-
lates, a Pom. pup and a theatre full of
streamers helped Lilian to smile happily on
the audience of her home town. During
the season the Firm gave Westralian-bor.i
Effie Armstrong, Beatrice Kendrick, Eileen
Pollard and Mabel Gibson places in the
casts. After a good season in Perth tli *
company took its suitcases to Broken Hill
for five nights before visiting Adelaide and
Brisbane.
One of Claremont’s musical girls, the
W. B. Shaws’ pretty daughter Flora, has
decided that she would like to be Mrs. Hugh
Whittaker. He hails from Lancashire and
has been only a few months in Australia.
For the first time the Westralian Lawn-
Tennis Association has decided to exchange
crgpe soles for dancing-pumps and has booked
the Y.A.L. Hall for the 21st. The clubs
all think it’s a good idea, so the affair should
be a success. On the same date the Victoria
League hopes to gather a little windfall for
Fairbridge Farm School from a bridge party
in Princess Hall, Claremont. The League
guarantees an annual £5O.
Mrs. Sinclair McGibbon and Mrs. L. O.
Cockram spread 18 tables in King’s Park
pavilion with cards and mah-jongg tiles,
teacups and pretty things to eat. A nice
little egg was thus collected for the babies
"at Pier-street free kindergarten.
TASMANIA.
Hobart.
The O’Grady has arisen from his bed of
sickness, and found a large, heavy stone
waiting for him to lay it. It’s part of an
addition to the City Mission Hall. When
he'd done that he had to start a gift clock
off on its mission.
The Royal Autocar Club held its once-a-
year dance at the Continental. President
Weller and his wife welcomed 150 guests
and .Tack Frost gave one of his celebrated
silent lectures on the wisdom of shaking a
nimble toe. In between dances those who
didn’t sit out in very remote spots heard the
singing of Mrs. Douglas Nettlefold and
Muriel Beattie. Margaret O’Grady and
private-secretary Somers were among the
throng.
Mrs. Peacock gave a dance at the Con-
tinental to say a reproachful good-bye to
the W. L. Clarkes, who have weakened and
decided to settle on the mainland. The ball-
room lights had amber shades, and tawny
chrysanthemums and autumn foliage dressed
the supper-tables. The hostess wore black
lace, the feminine guest of honor green and
silver, and her little deb. daughter Margaret
moth-grey, with very full skirt.
Several brave folk motored or went by
rail to the Campbell Town Show, the great
annual event of the Midlands, where, in
Arctic weather, sheep showed how they keep
themselves warm and gee-gees went over
fences with high determination. On the
preceding Saturday the Midland Hunt Club
had a splendid day out. the Malcolm Gibsons
and the E. Gibsons being hosts at a big
spread at Powell’s Hotel after the meet.


Amusements.
EMPIRE THEATRE,
Railway Square, adjoining Saunders’ Corner,
in Quay Street, Sydney.
Rufe Naylor has the honor to present
2/6 “SUNNY” 5/6
(By arrangement with Chas. Dillingham, N.Y.)
PLAYING TO CAPACITY NIGHTLY.
“SUNNY” commences at 7.45 sharp. Orchestral
items from 7.30.
Reserves at Theatre (M.A. 1000), Nicholson’s.
Paling’s, Hotel Australia, Usher’s, Carlton. Samuel’s.
Matinees Wednesday and Saturday at 2.
Theatre Box Office Hours: 9 to 3, 4 to 9.
«£ YD N E Y’S CHIEF THEATRES.
J. C. WILLIAMSON, LTD., present
HER MAJESTY’S: TIP TOES.
CRITERION: THE GHOST TRAIN.
ROYAL: MADAME POMPADOUR.
PALACE: CRADLE SNATCHERS.
CULLERS’ THEATRE, SYDNEY.
r Twice Daily, 2.30 and 8.
STIFFY AND MO.
RICKARDS’ TIVOLI THEATRES.
** l.essees: Harry Rickards' Tivoli Theatres, Ltd.
MELBOURNE and SYDNEY.
TWICE EVERY DAY—2.3O and 8,
CELEIIIIITY VAITDEVILLE.
The World’s Best.
TO W N HALL, SYDNEY.
IGNAZ FRIEDMAN,
“The Colossus of the Pianoforte.”
SERIES OF MEMORABLE CONCERTS,
TO-NIGHT (Thursday), JUNE 16, and Next Saturday
and the following Tuesday, Thursday and Saturday.
Box Plan at Nicholson’s
Direction E. J. Carroll.
RING’S HALL, SYDNEY.
Direction E. J. Gravestock.
COMMENCING SATURDAY, JUNE 26.
For a brief season.
“The man is one of the wonders of the Century”
—Melbourne Age.
ALEXANDER WATSON,
ALEXANDER WATSON,
England’s foremost platform celebrity, in a series of
Dramatic Interpretations and Recitals of the works
of Poets, Dramatists, Novelists and Humorists.
THE MOST POPULAR ENTERTAINER
THAT HAS EVER VISITED
AUSTRALIA.
Works by BARRIE, KIPLING, SIIAKSPEARE,
MARK TWAIN, DICKENS and others.
Full programmes at Nicholson’s.
Reserved seats, 4/- ; Unreserved, 3/- and 2/-
JC. W ILLIAMSO N, LTD.,
■ MELBOURNE ATTRACTIONS.
HIS MAJESTY’S: ROSE MARIE.
KING’S THEATRE:
SIX-CYLINDER LOVE.
THEATRE ROYAL: THE RINGER.
pRINCESS THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
EVERY EVENING AT 8.
The Eminent Actresi MURIEL STARR
in Max Mercin and George M. Cohan’s Supremely
Thrilling and Gripping Play,
THE HOUSE OF GLASS.
Box Plan at Glen’s.
A THEN M U M TIIEA T R E,
H MELBOURNE.
Proprietor: Frank Talbot Pty., Ltd.
Lessee: E. J. Carroll.
EVERY EVENING AT 8.
The Uproariouslv Funnv Comedy,
ELIZA COMES TO STAY.
Direction E. J. Carroll, by arrangement with
Richard AVhite and Eric Edgley.
Plan at Allan’s.
EV|EW BIJOU THEATRE, MELBOURNE
Twice Daily, 2.30 and 8.
GEORGE WARD REVUE CO.
Popular Prices Plan Cen. 3251.
pALACE THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
STARTING JUNE 18.
CARTER THE GREAT.
The Monarch of Magic, Mystery and Mirth.
Box Plan at Glen’s.
IVI AJESTIC THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
' Another Warner Attraction.
KENNETH HARLAN in
THE SAP.
How a young fellow considered a coward at home
I ecomes in spite of himself an accidental hero and
finally astonishes everyone when he gains his man-
hood.
Box Plan at Allan’s & Theatre. ’Phone 7076 & 7790
HOYT’S DE LUXE THEATRE,
MELBOURNE.
THREE BAD MEN.
With GEORGE O’BRIEN and OLIVE BORDEN.
AT,SO
CORINNE GRIFFITH as
THE LADY IN ERMINE,
With FRANCIS ’X. BUSHMAN.
Prices .is usual.
t HE ALLAN WILKIE SH AK-
* SPEAREAN PRODUCTIONS
QUEENSLAND TOUR: Ipswich, June 20,21 ; Too-
woomba, June 22; Warwick, June 23.
N.S.W.—Arrnidnle, June 25 to 27.
Sydney Manager: J. V. De Batyn.
Head Office: Pulsford’s Chambers, 178 Castlereagh St.
Cable and Telegraphic Address: “Othello,” Sydney.
G.P.O. Box 2229 LL.
Personal.
QLARKE. —Everything arranged, no need
worry. Write or see me, urgent, your
interest. McG.
If any illustration in The Bulletin takes
your fancy, write to the Manager, who .will
quote you price for the original.
MAGAZINE
V; IXs. '
/
&
Writers and Artists.
Bill Bowyang’s Magazine, to be pub-
lished in July, invites short, humorous
bush storiettes (not exceeding 1000
words), paragraphs, verse and black-and-
white sketches from Australian writers
and artists.
Only humorous bush material required.
Highest payments made for everything
accepted.
Published quarterly. Annual sub-
scription, 4/6 post paid.
Address all communications to :
“Bill Bowyang’s Magazine,”
PO. Box 164,
Bowen, North Queensland.
YYTTTEREVER you are, I bring all the book
stores of Sydney to your finger-tips.
In regard to your wants concerning new or
second-hand books write to FRANK BOND,
Box 4, Kensington P. 0.. Sydney.
§B?®^
Vaseline
TRADE MARK
PETROLEUM JELLY
FOR WOUNDS
If at all serious, use an
approved antiseptic and
dress with “Vaseline”
Jelly. Brings comfort,
eases pain, helps nature
heal quickly.
Look for the Trade Mark “Vaseline?’
It is your protection
Chesebrough Mfg. Go., Cons’d
New York London Montreal
BROOKS RUPTURE
APPLIANCE
Can Now be
Purchased in
Australia at London
Prices.
m
If you are Ruptured write at once for full particular,
of this Modern invention. Light, cool and coin
fortable. Expert attends to Mail Orders.
AGENTS: GUYATT & CO., est. 1863
DEPT. B,
Surgical Instrument and Truss Makers.
257 a GEORGE STREET
.(Opposite Bridge Street), SYENEY.
To Let.
MUNICIPALITY OF YOUNG.
TD LET to approved tenant, one Lock-up
1 Shop in Town Hall building. Modern,
single front, good position, size 14ft. x 37ft.,
Electricity, both light and power, laid on.
Rent 45/- per week. Lease will be granted
for long terra. Eminently suited for lady
hairdresser and beauty parlor.
Apply to —
TOWN CLERK.
Town Hall, Young.
Young. (1/6/27.
Missing Friends.
pALLING, ALEXANDER.—WiII any per-
A sou knowing the present address of Alex-
ander Palling, formerly of Eildon Weir, Vic-
toria. please communicate with A. C.
McLEAN, Solicitor, 150 Queen Street, Mel-
bourne.
RE EDWIN CLARKE. Deceased.—Will
D any person knowing the whereabouts of
HARRIETT CLARKE, formerly of Oat-
lands. in Tasmania, half-sister of Edwin
Clarke (also known as Edwin Thomas Scallan
and Edwiii Scallan Powell), please communi-
cate with the Public Trustee, Hobart, Tas-
mania? - ' ;
THE INKY WAY.
July will see a new quarterly bursting into
bloom at Bowen (N.Q.), Bill Bowyang's
Magazine, which will specialise, as its name
suggests, in humorous bush stories and
sketches, and tbe attention-of freelance con-
tributors is called to its laudable enterprise.
The sponsor and conductor of the new ven-
ture is Frank Reid, an old Bulletin contri-
butor under the ‘‘Bill Bowyang” pen-name.
“R.F.K.F.”: A handy style-card recently
issued by Brisbane Daily Mail for the
guidance of its literary staff whimsically
lays it down that bad language should not
appear “unless used by a bishop.” Which
suggests that the press has moved a long
distance from the ponderous hypocrisy of
our grandfathers’ days. In 1860 a noon
prayer-meeting was held daily in the edi-
torial rooms of the New York Sun. A year
or two later the paper actually urged that
the Federal generals in the Civil War should
be forbidden to attack the enemy on Sun-
days. None tbe less the Sun scribes had to
toil on Sundays to provide the public with
Monday newspapers.
“Harold Hardupp” : There is at least one
Australian daily where smoking on the pre-
mises is one of the deadly sins. A bright
writer who secured a job on the ponderous
publication left rather suddenly, and a friend
expressed his surprise to one of the staff.
“Yes, he’s a first-class journalist” acquiesced
tlie other. “He can write up anything lie’s
asked, but lie’s a careless devil. The chief
came in one day to see him and found some
cigarette ash on the floor by his table.”
James Buckland recently completed his
BOth year of service with the Ballarat
COURIER.
“Rob P.”: The Brisbane manager of
Smith’s Weekly has been fined £5O for con-
tempt of court in the form of a gaol inter-
view with a since-sentenced murderer, who
was then awaiting trial. Proceedings were
instituted by the accused man’s solicitor and
not by the Grown, although it was admitted
that the man knew that the interview was
for publication, and only found fault with
the accuracy of one sentence. Judge Macros-
san imposed the penalty.
Twenty-five years ago a youngster named
Frank White, who had begun to earn a living
by teaching school, wrote a few boating and
yachting pars for The Bulletin from his
birthplace—Milang, at the mouth of the
Murray, South Aus. These getting past the
sub., he sent across to Edmund Fisher some
more ambitious things; and Fisher opened up
the Inky Way for him. Soon he heard the
big world calling, and with his yachting
experience behind him he got a job before the
mast and landed in New York, where he
found a berth on the papers. Next he had a
few years on the London press, and was
back again in New York during the war.
That disturbance over, ex-President Wilson’s
son-in-law, the American adviser of the Gov-
ernment of Siam, sent for him, told him he
had been recommended as editor of a paper
which his Majestv Prajad Ilipok of Suklio
Daya, King of Muang-Tliai—known to Euro-
peans as Siam —had established, in proper
European fashion. The professor mentioned
a figure that sounded like Henry Ford, and
White left to take hold of the king's paper.
He found it had a circulation of 300, and
proceeded to suggest to his Majesty’s coun-
sellors that 30,000 would be better. He found
a craftsman who could make blocks for illus-
trations, and when White left the other day
it was a very presentable paper that fluttered
good-bye. He is on a holiday now in Aus-
tralia. There is a daughter in Melbourne
whom he hasn’t seen for 20 years.
This is the visiting-card of Frank J.
White, the Australian who has lately been
editing the Daily Mail, of Bangkok, for
the King of Siam :—-
uvtau'ScT id. l hn
“Hamer” : A big Sydney advertising amal-
gamation in prospect is that between the
Catts-Patterson firm, which is purely on the
advertising side, and Smith and Julius, in
business as commercial artists. The latter
established the Home and Art in Aus-
tralia, productions which challenge any-
thing of their kind in the world. These two
journals, being run by an independent com-
pany, are unaffected; the Triad, recently
taken over by the firm, has been bought by
Ernest Watt, and is starting on a new career
with poet Hugh McCrac as editor. Pro-
bably McCrae is nearest to Frank Morton,
the Triad’s most successful editor, in tem-
perament. Woolacott, who has guided the
paper for some years past, has struck a safe
niche with one of Sydney’s dailies. .
Melbourne Age is trying to make up lee-
way by a plunge into the new journalism. A
specimen from an interview with the Dew an
Bahadur T. Rangacliariar, the Indian repre-
sentative at Canberra: —
“You are not tired?” an Aok representative asked
him. One felt diffident about seeking an interview
at that hour of the night. With the grace that
characterises the people of the East, the Dewan
replied that it gave him the greatest pleasure in
the world to grant an interview, and he motioned
to a chair.
| So unlike the uncouth Australian statesman
who remains squatting in his loincloth on the
| naked floor, taking potshots with betel juice
at the pressmen’s boots.-
“Spare Sub” : Sydney Evening News com-
plained the other day of the' .publicity given
to the American trans-Atlantic fliers, while
English airmen just returned from a longer
non-stop journey uvere unwined, ungreeted
and unadvertised. Perhaps it was just sheer
forgetfulness—as when the News, a few days
earlier, hurled slabs of praise at the Ameri-
cans as the only people, so far, to fly the
North Atlantic, the journal adding admiringly
that they had done it three times, counting
the “round the world” flight a couple of
years ago. No thought of the two Britons,
Alcock and Brown, who blazed the aerial
track from Newfoundland to Ireland, when
’planes were far from their present perfec-
tion, seems to have occurred to the News
, writer.
Answers to Correspondents.
No notice ( except of a hostile character) will bi
taken of communications insufficiently stamped.
Name and address must appear on the MS. No
liability is undertaken re contributions volun-
tarily submitted: and no MS. will be returned
unless stamps accompany. .
11. J.: But is that going to help anybody?
N.W.L.: Creaks like a rheumatic knee
A.W.G-W.: Anguished scream in verse about young
girla of Kent who have lost their virtue noted. If
they should find it again, please wire R.G.W.:
“Mists” holds no music T.G.M.: That plate has
been licked till there’s holes in it R.L.M.: Enclose
cuttings with claim for payment Annie Josephine:
The disgrace may bo terrible; but so is the verse.
A.W.M.: “The Dodderer” dodders H.W.H.:
The crude affair has points, but it’s far too long.
A.L.G.: Why such heavy verse about a light
jest? IT.W.D.: You hamper yourself with an awk-
ward form and a difficult objective. Terse shows no
promise... .M.P.M.: Possibilities ; but “pants don t
rhyme with “strands” D.W.G.: P00r... .D.W.D.:
The piled-up agony of it would not be pleasant,
even if it made a story.... Coreen N.: Runs a long
way to its improbable conclusion... .Chas. C.: Full
of unsuitable phrases... .E.E.M.: The red ink
tried our eyesight for nothing... .J.F.P.: Too
long D.A.M.: Putrid G.R.0.: Story with two
dead ’uns in it is as dull as two funerals....
J.W.L.: In spite of your birth-control argument, you
allow your “ands” to propagate themselves ad lib.
... . E.'w. (Bawley Point): Some sort of a buffer
verse is required between the rather weary preamble
and the rather tame conclusion. .. .Ridinghood: Had
just a chance; but it has many weaknesses Frank
A.: “Oil why, oh why doth sorrow thus Engulf the
human heart?” Bl.bst if we know... .R.L.P.:
Smoothly written description of the straightening-
out of a derelict’s life fails as a story... .G.8.L.:
Evidently the lady isn’t bobbed: —
Her Titian hair streams ’cross my skies
Outblown by every wind ’tis hurled;
Engrossing to my ardent eyes,
Her tresses twist around my world.
. ...8.R.0.: The genius who, seizing a violin for
the first tifte, played in such a way as to cause a
sensation, doesn’t convince. In our hoarding-house
the sensation would have been his murder W.W.Y .:
Racing argument is over the odds. .. .D.L.C.: “Those
Whom the Gods Love” died young.... Ajax: In your
own style:—
Hey diddle diddle, with your little fiddle,
You cannot use forty lines up for a riddle.
. ...T.W.D.: Heavily manufactured.... Pixie G.: Ye
don’t want your “Forgiveness”... .W.S.C.: African
sketches too long. One or two might make pars.
Gwen B. 0.: Only a string of poor anecdotes....
Bellerive: Welcome to your crayfish-supper effect:—
I sat me down to dip the pen,
But to write I weren’t able.
Drowsily I sank to sleep
\\ ith my head upon the table.
When I awakened from my nap
My pen lay on the floor ;
Visions filled my slumber
Of a pantomime of yore.
Softly skipped the harlequin ;
Forth pranced the active clown
Who grappled with the pantaloon
And turned him upside down.
Boldly from a coffee stall.
To 'the glee of paper boys,
The mirthful clown did exit
With a string of saveloys.
Suddenly the scene did change;
The lights turned blue and yellow;
Up shot a grim and ugly imp
From underneath the cellar,
.... Kongroo: “Unbobbed Tresses” wild and woolly.
.... Gwen A. B.: A lopg way off... . C.F.W.: The
soul-filled eyes filled us with anguish J.M.11.:
There were so many stirring events that the scare
caused by the turtle hardly causes a ripple
Billy D.: Not bad; try to clarify your style
A.C.M.: Limps Jack W. (Woonona) : Quite un-
convincing- M.11.H.: It’s hard to vision a man
discussing his intimate affairs like that before a
strange estate-agent on the block of land he intends
buying. .. .W.P.A.: “ ’Twas ail a dream,” was it?
Well, wake up G.H.G.: We read all about the
Duke and “Dutchess,” passing such delightful attempts
at rhyme as “harbor-harder, Highness-brightness” :
but what does it mean? Cam D.: The tradesman
who fluttered the old maid’s heart when he announced
that he was prepared to dye for her died a century
ag0.... Raja: Goes to a second reading ; but, although
well told, it’s rather more an incident than a story.
M.C.D.: Why their bones? A bone isn’t a par-
ticularly lively thing, anyway... .M.G.: The exciting
episode gets its space:—
In a lonely old cabin one night I did dwell;
To the hum of the city I’d bidden farewell;
The fire had burned low in that lonely old house
When there came to my ears the death-shriek of a
mouse.
Then I fell in a doze, and started to dream;
Then opened my eyes and let out a scream.
The sight that I saw sent me all in a shake ;
From a hole in the top came a yard of black snake.
Just a foot from my head, and ready to strike,
As I sprang to the floor, yours luckily, Mike.
. ...R.C.C.: “Life” is unreal, although it’s earnest
enough. .. .P.W.M.: Well constructed, but the idea is
grotesque J.P.C. (Vic) : Considering the cold
weather and the poor verse we must decline to
wander in the bush.... Warren D.: A mere reflection
.... Veronica: The song- shall not cross our threshold.
.. . .G.A.8.: Can’t believe that darkness. . . .D.W.8.:
Boxing yarn took the k.o J.E.C.: “Up> above him
was a sheer precipice down which if anything
happened meant sudden death” is a sample of an
impossible sentence... .W.F.H.: All fail... .Peter
H.: Not enough bite in the turtle story....
A.S.M.: After two pages, “Now, let me come to
gripes with my story.” It gave us a stomachache,
too.. . . W.R.T.: It rambles too much... .John C.:
May do elsewhere. Story is too conventional in
type for us J.R.L.: Some day a patriot will brain
you with a bottle for rhyming “Australia” with
“failure” J.A.H.: Weak Syd S.: Retreating.
. . . .E.M.D: Dad’s foolishness is overdone. . . .A.M.L.:
All spasms and jerks. —L.A.R.: No more story
value than the average private detective’s evidence.
. . . .R.J.K.T. : Something new in the love-declaration
line is needed. .. .A.C.M.: You nearly wrote a good
verse. . . .G.W.C.: Mournfully consigned. . . .11.8. L.:
Yes; the mosquito has been done to death in verse
rather often... .Neil H.: But we couldn’t tell its
literary merit from a synopsis.... Booligal: Sorry,
but can’t be done. We shall have to make the
best use we can of the Red Page for the purpose.
....Tea-4-3: Can’t divulge the addresses of con-
tributors ; letters care of the office are sent on.
TO ARTISTIC (AND INARTISTIC)
CORRESPONDENTS.
0.A.W.: Too many cartoonists have gnawed at
that bone. .. . W.R.D.: No encore, please L. 1.: Ye
don’t think much of the judgment of the friends
who persuaded you to send them along... .F. 11.5.:
Bust of Lang puffing at a cornet too wretched for
words... .E.S.: “Guaranteed likenesses” of your 20
leading citizens declined... .C.R.L.: If the aetoi
did forget his lines you forgot to give him a right
arm.. ..B.B.: If you must , work in oil, wait till the
thing is dry before wrapping it up.


Macmillan’s
NEW BOOKS.
The prices advertised are those at which the
boohs are ‘published in London. Prices outside
the British Isles must be fixed by the importing
bookseller.
The Life and Letters of Lord
Bryce.
By the Rt. Hon. H. A. L. FISHER.
With Portraits and Illustrations. 2
vols. 325. net.
The Morning Post : “A notable memorial
to a scholar and a statesman who was also a
man of the world in the best sense of the
term....this finely-thought and finely-wrought
biography.”
Early Life and Letters of John
Morley.
By F. W. HIRST. With Portraits
and other Illustrations. 2 vols. 28s.
net.
Industrial Fluctuations.
By A. C. PIGOU, M.A. With
numerous Charts. 255. net.
The Economist: “An important contribu-
tion to economic literature, in which the Pro-
fessor of Political Economy in the University
of Cambridge explores one of the most vital
fields of modern economic problems.” k
A Treatise on Viticulture,
By A. I. PEROLD, 8.A., Ph.D.,
Professor of Viticulture and Oenology
in the University of Stellenbosch.
Illustrated. 255. net.
The Farmers’ Weekly, South Africa: “The
clearness of exposition and the numerous
illustrations in regard to propagation, graft-
ing, pruning, etc., go to make a very complete
and admirable guide to the whole subject, which
includes the manufacture of vinegar, syrups,
and the production of raisins, currants, etc.”
To be Obtained from all
Booksellers.
MACMILLAN & CO. LTD.
MELBOURNE & LONDON, W.C.2
' ; .
' '
: i
■
m
■
■ ■
' i
IMI
4%
: ■ '■
mm.
WStfflS
> V^->,
IpyipnP
llllfS
.
msm
wm
ill
MS
.
gaft£j!«S
mm
BS&
- > .
% . j
X aKt r x?v
|§§|!t
fflMMpMMii
.. . >•
IllliMlli
■—
"V
.
g
m
wUUMtxatue
V-
■;■■ -M
m
3 a.m. and
No Petrol
*’ TT was early—very early in the morning,
and the motor car had run out of
petrol No garage was open near at
hand, but a taxicab was drawn up at the
city kerb.
The taxi driver would supply petrol, but
there was no means of transferring it from
one tank to another. When a man and
his wife leave a dance at 3 a.m. it is not
fair for him to ignore the petrol gauge.
As usual, it was the woman who solved
the problem. Removing her gold-braided
dancing shoes, she offered them as panni-
kins. The taxi driver filled and refilled
them with petrol till about a quart had
been transferred. And they all lived
happily ever afterwards.”
DAILY PRESS.
Why take the risk? It’s so easy to carry the
SHELL RED CAN
NEW REDUCED PRICES
Holder Top Shaving Stick,
2/-
Reloads .. .. 1/6
Shaving Cream .. 2/-
Also manufacturers of the
celebrated Williams Shav-
ing Cream in the tube with
the unlosable cap.
#?
sS*\
¥
Two things you want —
This shaving stick has both
Williams Holder Top Shaving Stick has two distinct
features: First, it gives you the famous Williams
lather; and, second, a holder in which the soap itself
cannot work loose.
Williams lather absorbs an extraordinary amount of
moisture. It works up rich, fast and bulky—perme-
ates and softens the beard so that the razor just
glides through it.
The stick can’t slip in the Williams Holder Top. A
threaded metal ring surrounds the soap itself and
screws fast into the metal top. When it s time for
a reload (and these save money) you take out the
old wafer of soap easily and cleanly and place it on
top of the fresh reload. Buy a stick to-day and
brighten to-morrow’s shave.
Williams
Holder Top Shaving Stick
Distributors: FRAZER & BEST, LIMIJ.ED,
Brisbane, Sydney, Melbourne, Adelaide, Perth.
W4
1 h i^Br*
'i.
9
m
m
m
Wm
m
i
Machining JHston Valve Liners.
Alfred Herbert Combination
Turret Lathes
If you have to produce articles from the bar, castings
or forgings, it will pay you to consult us on the best
methods of production.
Having specialised for many years in Turret Lathe
Work, we can advise you on the selection of equip-
ment to combine efficiency with economy.
On receipt of particulars of work to be done we
will quote for Machines, Tools and Fixtures and
give guarantees of production.
Alfred Herbert
(Australasia), Limited,
503-505 Kent Street, Sydney.
Telegrams: LATHE.
Telephones:
City 10109, 10110.
Branch Office, Melbourne.


Mm [M
iiis 1
.
WmSti&sifr v '\i i
p * «
' -- -n
■■mi,,
'•- - • •« «
Quality that ensures permanent satisfaction—
V/uruJzer” S5S*
Because Wurlitzer instruments are designed and built to the very highest
ideals of quality, they continue to give that beautiful tone and that perfection
of performance that first influenced your choice in their favor.
Inspect the various Wurlitzer models before you decide—demonstrations will
be gladly given and easy terms arranged by—
, PRINCIPAL “WURLITZER” AGENTS:
NEW SOUTH WALES: Walter King & Sons, Burwood Road, Burwood; A. Cohen’s Music Depfit, 97 George
„-, lmT r ITTC Sydney ; M. Light & Sons, Ltd., Newcastle and Cessnock.
: The Australasian Implement and House Furnishing Co.. Adelaide.
WEST AUSTRALIA: Musgrove’s, Ltd., Murray Street, Perth.
TASMANIA; Findlay’s Pty., Ltd., 63-65 George Street, Launceston
VICTORIA: Myer’s Emporium, Ltd., Melbourne.
Where any difficulty is experienced in procuring a “Wurlitzer” communicate direct with the factory representative*:
8 O’CONNELL STREET. SYDNEY.
Parker, Blau & Co., Ltd.,
308 FLINDERS LANE, MELBOURNE.
SUNDRY SHOWS.
SYDNEY SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Her Majesty’s “Tip Toes’’
Criterion “The Ghost Train”
Royal “Madame Pompadour”
Palace “Cradle Snatchers”
Empire “Sunny”
Rollers’ Vaudeville
Tivoli Vaudeville
Town Hall Ignaz Friedman
MELBOURNE SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
His Majesty’s “Rose Marie”
King’s “Six-Cylinder Love”
Royal “The Ringer”
Princess “The House of Glass”
“Eliza Comes to Stay”
Palace Carter the Great
Tivoli ... Vaudeville
Bijou Vaudeville
Majestic Moving Pictures
Hoyt’s Moving Pictures
« _
Few in the audience, that heard Ignaz
Friedman at the Sydney Town Hall on Satur-
day night knew more about the pianist than
that lie was chosen to play some of the
mightiest works of Beethoven at the Cen-
tenary concerts in Vienna a month or two ago.
He had evidently made up his mind that
Australia, if it loved him, should do it with
its mental eyes open, for he began with
three numbers that took a good deal of digest-
ing. The A Minor Rondo of Mozart was
the first offering, and Friedman showed what
could be done with this ingenuous harpsi-
chord piece in the hands of a master of the
modern pianoforte. The faint, graceful, pen-
cil sketch, yellow with age, became a glowing
painting, rich in color, intriguing in its light
and shade. Then a shallow, flashy rondo by
the industrious and facile Hummel was used
to demonstrate that Mozart’s pupil did add
something to his master’s structure. The
Variations and Fugue of Brahms was the big
virtuoso stunt of the evening. Friedman’s
polyphonic playing is masterly—a deft
blending of voices in which the senses admire
the effect while the intellect applauds the
cleverness of the structure. The rest of the
evening was devoted to lollipops—a generous
representation of the feminine Frederic,
translated into terms of masculinity, the best-
known “Liebestraum” of Liszt, the Liszt
transcription of “Hark, Hark th e Lark,”
from Schubert’s Shakspearean lyrics, and
“THE GREEN HAT,” AT HER
MAJESTY'S, SYDNEY.
Judith Anderson wearing the thing.
the Abbe’s brilliantly clever adaptation of
Paganini’s “La Campanella.” Wagner,
Mendelssohn and Gluck figured among the
encores, and the pianist played two little
things of his own. Billed as the “Colossus
of the Pianoforte,” Friedman’s most out-
standing asset as a showman is a fortissimo
as loud as Hambourg’s, although he uses it
with more discretion than the ebullient Mark.
He mixes his tone-colors with a lot of
hrains, and impresses his cheerful, vigorous
personality on everything he touches. He
hates the obvious, and in evading it misses
that tremendous sincere simplicity which
sometimes —not always—marks the readings
of Paderewski. Carreno had it in a greater
degree than any player heard in Australia
—but of course she was a woman.
If there be any moral in “The Sheik,”
which opened at Sydney St. James Theatre
on Saturday night, it is that it is
inadvisable for a girl to go wandering about
the desert. E. M. Hull’s story used up
probably the only sheik who is British-born
and cleanly; sheiks generally, if Omair is
any sort of a sample, combine a pronounced
aversion from washing with a deplorable moral
outlook towards women. If Diana Mayo
had been slippered by a judicious parent
during her girlhood, she would not, of course,
have hit the desert trail —in any case she
is not the type for that sort of exploit—
but the book was written for a large femin-
ine public which likes its heroines womanly
as well as masculine ; hence Diana goes out
into the wilds, and is caught in an excel-
lently-arranged sandstorm, which helps her
betrayal by her Arab servants to the Sheik
Ahmed Ben Hassan, whose attentions she
had scorned in more civilised surroundings'.
In a remarkably luxurious pavilion Ahmed
proceeds to live up to his boast that he
takes what he wants, and the lady puts
up a frenzied struggle ; but the curtain falls
on Act I in time to save the audience from
embarrassment. Stung by the reproaches of
his lifelong friend, the Vicomte Raoul St.
Hubert, who happens opportunely to drop
in, Ahmed consents to let Diana decide
whether she will go or stay; but the lady
turns out to have fallen into the clutches
of the Sheik Omair during Ahmed’s absence,
and her rescue provides material for some
brisk action. Ahmed is shot by a lurking
Arab after the fight in Omair’s camp; but
the Avound brings him the satisfaction of
knowing that Diana, in spite of herself, has
grown to care for her well-laundered Arab
chief. After Ahmed has recovered and wiped
out the followers of Omair, the pleasant dis-
covery follows that Ahmed is of white parent-
age, having been adopted by an Arab sheik
in his infancy, and the way is left clear
for the marriage of Diana to Ahmed. And the
lady is left to spend the rest of her life
in the desert tents, an ending satisfactory
only to a public which enjoys a very curious
brand of sentimentality.
❖ :J: * *
The sorry stuff is nevertheless actable, and
Phil Lytton has surrounded a capable cast
with good staging helped out by livestock.
Robert Ginns makes a robust Sheik with his
English blood and French education conflict-
ing with Arab ethics, while Kathleen Pickard
produces as convincing a Diana as can be
expected and looks charming enough to make
any sheik prick up his ears. The usually
stagey Rutland Beckett is transformed by
some capital make-up into an Omair ruffianly
enough to be real. Among minor characters
a kind word is deserved by ancient George
Dean, who becomes an Arab merchant, Tok
Habib, for the occasion. Years ago George
used to thrill vaudeville audiences by singing
sentimental songs illustrated by lantern
slides.
* * * *
Judith Anderson and her accomplices waste
some excellent acting upon a grotesquely in-
artistic play in “The Green Hat,” which
opened a season of eight matinees at Her
Majesty’s, Sydney, last Thursday. Michael
Arlen’s play shows the same tawdry
cleverness and cheap thought which marked
his novel. The stage situations are ingeni-
ously arranged, but it is difficult to regard the
theme as anything but an attempt at the
commercial exploitation of unpleasantness. In
the play business opens with discussions in
Mrs. Fenwick’s rooms at the hotel at Deau-
ville, to which she and her husband, “Boy”
Fenwick, had come on the first night of their
honeymoon, about the death of the ’groom,
who had fallen from one of the windows and
been killed. To save the reason of his
brother, Gerald March, who entertains an
idolatrous worship of “Boy” as a paragon of
virtuous manhood, Iris Fenwick allows all
sorts of things about herself to be assumed
by saying that “Boy” died “for Purity,” and
then proceeds to show all Europe that she is as
bad as her friends think her, whilst Gerald
settles down to the hereditary job of drinking
himself to death. Iris pauses for one night
in her chain of mercenary love adventures to
seduce the man she has loved all her life on
the eve of his wedding. A child' is born and
dies; Iris, disconsolate, has no desire to live
until the lover, now married, comes to see
her at the French hospital-convent where she
is lying ill. The last act sees her about to
elope with Napier Harpenden, the lover, with
the entire acquiescence of the wife, Venice;
but she thinks better of it and gets Napier
to return by a tale that his wife is to have a
child, and, to burn his bridges, kills herself
by running her car pell-mell into a tree.
* * * *
Judith Anderson improves the play by a
judicious restraint in the use of emotion ; she
turned on the tap to the full at times, but
her Iris was at least less ridiculous than
the author’s. Barrie Livesay, as the hysteri
cal Gerald, helps to work up Iris to her sacri-
fice in the first act, and Gerald K. Souper is
workmanlike and aloof as Sir Maurice Har-
penden. Wallis Clark makes a fine character
of the doctor, Conrad Masters, who knows all
along that it is “Boy” Fenwick’s shame at
having married in a diseased condition that
led to his death, and George Baxter does the
best possible with the sickly part of Napier
Harpeuden. The show continues this after-
noon, and for Friday, Monday and Tuesday
matinees.
* * * *
The Shakspearean Society’s production of “A
Midsummer Night's Dream” at Sydney Con-
servatorium was so satisfactory on the mati-
nee and two nights of its run that the society
intends to repeat the dose, and also is pro-
ceeding to get “Julius Caesar” into shape. The
schools which filled the back seats were in
strong vocal evidence, and applauded such
items as the quarrel between Hermia and
“ELIZA COMES TO STAY,” AT
MELBOURNE ATHENAEUM.
Frank Bradley as Montague Jordan and
Henrietta Cavendish as Lady Elizabeth
Pennybroke.
Helena, when finger-nails are suggested as
weapons, as heartily as schoolboys naturally
would applaud the fight between Skinny
Burke and Snowy Macpherson in a back lane.
Their vociferousness rather spoiled the music,
which was in the capable hands of the Con-
servatorium Ladies’ String Quartette. As
far as the comedy went, the performance,
with producer Arthur Greenaway as Bottom,
was excellent; Reginald Henniker was a very
good Quince. James A. Reid was much too
uneasy on his feet to make Theseus kingly,
and some of the fairies, especially one who
carried a wand as if it was a stink-bomb, were
more embarrassed than lively. Ivy Wilkinson
made a fair success as Puck; and Vera
Keogh, treating her best lines as recitations,
was fortunate in having to handle some of
the finest things that Shakspeare wrote. E.
Gilbert Howell was a good Egeus ; and Maiva
Drummond (Hermia) and Doris Williams
(Helena) carried out the feminine quarrel
scene well; but their lovers were rather pain-
fully self-conscious. The deadly correctness
of Adela Quinn’s fairy queen. Titania, failed
to spoil a production roundly approved by
the audience.
'l' v •!»
Floie Allan, about to leave for America and
England, cancelled her berth at the Firm’s
request to take Elizabeth Morgan’s place in
“Tip Toes” at Sydney Her Majesty’s, the lead-
ing lady being indisposed; and Floie, who
started on the job on Saturday, and will re-
main in it for the rest of the season, man-
aged well enough to earn whole bouquets of
applause. The bright Australian’s luck is
hailed with approval by a Showman who has
w r atched her rapid progress, and always
found her an entertainment. It is only a
few years since she was entrusted, rather
doubtfully, with parts of a few lines.
❖ ❖ ❖
“Madame Pompadour’s” charm and wit keep
the allegiance of her King and Sydney Theatre
Royal audiences; and “Cradle Snatchers”
and “The Ghost Train” continue to fill the
Palace and Criterion nightly. “Sunny” will
set on Saturday fortnight, and on present
arrangements “The Student Prince” will
step into the Empire on its heels. Just by
way of showing that they are not out of the
business, “Lady, Be Good!” will be brought
by the Fullers to the St. James Theatre
about July 22 —“The Sheik” is only allowed
occupancy of the attractive showhouse until
then. Jimmy Godden, Elsie Prince and
Charlton Morton will be the leading inter-
preters of the story hung upon the sound
advice. Zimbalist is on his way to keep the
Town Hall melodious after Friedman has
done with it.
* * *
Alexander Carr is back again as the big
noise at the Sydney Tivoli; there is not
much in the scena “Tobblitzky.” but bv an
excellent representation of Abraham Levy
he makes it entertaining. He has the assist-
ance of Sidney Burcliall, who came here in
"Mercenary Mary,” and Sadie Pepper, but
they are mere pegs for Carr's humors. The
Jovers, very amusing clowns and acrobats,
and the male representative of the Rich and
Adair partnership are lights with a glow of
their own.
An old friend returns:—
Years ago, when Art in Sydney was Sid Long and
a group of others who had to battle hard for a
crust, Fred Leist was one of the most promising
of the struggling coterie; he has returned, now that
the artist’s bread is well buttered, with an attrac-
tive exhibition of oils hung at the Macquarie Gal-
leries, Bligh-street. It is work that shows a
maturity of knowledge which has to some extent
subdued an old defiance; a gathering of studies
made in all parts of the world including Mexico and
the West indies. For that, as well as their artistic
merits', the pictures are worth a view.
At Melbourne Princess, Muriel Starr is
tackling the problem of making "The House
of Glass” a little less transparent than Max
Marcin and Geo. M. Cohan, its playwrights,
left it. The residence is the moral stronghold
wherein dwells an American railroad manager
who believes in handing criminals over to the
law and who marries Miss Starr only to
find that at an earlier stage of her career
she had been flung into prison. Actresses are
always flung into prison—never tossed or
rolled or carried kicking in a Black Maria.
The proceedings are satisfactorily concluded
when it is found that the Governor of N’York
State can be easily persuaded to let Miss
Starr go if the railway man abandons the
prosecution of one of his clerks for theft.
The trouble about the play is the mediocrity
of its situations. It flows too smoothly and
the dialogue resembles a series of tonic talks
by I)r. Crane. It is no Bisley for Miss Starr
to exercise her celebrated emotional sharp
shooting. Desmond McMinn is wonderfully
stiff as the crook lover of the initial act-
sometimes he achieves thp immobility of a
marble statue. Frederick Francis is a detec-
tive with% flair for remembering finger-prints
but (on Saturday) finding no difficulty in
forgetting his lines. Carl Lawson is plausible
enough as the railroad manager, and Fred
Coape appears as a Japanese servant and
anon as the Governor. Harvey Adams as a
lawyer tries to infuse some gaiety into the
affair by making a fuss about a cocktail, but
most of the laughter comes from the stage.
Miss Starr's management has been looking in
at the movie salons and believes it detects
a great thirst for genuine old-time melodrama
amongst the theatre-going proletariat; so
“East Lynne” is to be presented in a fort-
night.
$ $ $ *
Melbourne Tivoli is at present in the grip
of Dick Henderson, a comedian who releases
his gags so rapidly that several of them
appear to be floating in the air simul-
taneously. It also has the services of Colin
“MADAME POMPADOUR,” AT
SYDNEY ROYAL.
Pompadour’s keystone cops — Maurepas ,
Minister of Police (Leslie Holland), and
his tiny assistant (George Lane).
Crane’s ornate and robustious baritone, and
Marie Lawton is playing, like some sort of
terrestrial angel, on her harp. The Urens
are eight extremely clever twisting Melbourne
juveniles.
# $ * *
The sliprails will go down for the last time
on “Gum-tree Gully” at Melbourne Palace
to-morrow night and Carter the Great will
commence making magic at the matinee on
Saturday, with Evelyn Maxwell to prove,
despite the recent failure of 3LO, that tele-
pathy is real. “Eliza,” at the Athenaeum,
“Pose Marie,” at His Majesty’s, and “The
Ringer,” at the Royal, will carry on as usual.
(Continued on Page 54-)


eifs Oometj
M
i
■te
HI
jfe Oidslmhg Spectacle of 1910
IN the early morning hours of
several days during the year
1910 thousands rose from their
beds to view the wonderful
spectacle of Halley’s Comet
thrown across the sky.
Very many readers of adult age
will remember it and will realise
that seventeen years have since
passed. We recall it here with
the objed of emphasising the
long establishment of those
distilleries which have since
amalgamated as Federal Distilleries
Proprietary Limited..
In the year of Halley’s Comet—
and many years, before
Distillery at Dunnstown, Joshua’s
Distillery at Port Melbourne and
the Australian Distillery (then
Preston’s) at South Melbourne,
were producing and selling fine
whisky, and whilst the name
“Old Court” only came with the
amalgamation, it should be borne
in mind that “Old Court” is
not the name ot a new whisky,
but the new name of an old
whisky a name devised to
simplify the business policy of
the amalgamated houses.
Thus, when Prejudice whispers
that '‘Old Court” is too “new”
to be mellow and fine, remembei
these facts.
The first “Old Court” whisky
sold was bottled from very old
mellow stocks, barrelled and
stored away many years before
AND every drop of “Old Court”
whisky sold to - day is eyiictlly
fully aged Money cannot buy
a purer spirit. Its purity stands
unchallenged.
Steadily increasing sales demon-
strate that Australia is realising
that “Old Court” whisky is, in
purity, age and flavor, the equal
of any. The man who doubts it
is the man who has not tried it.
We want him to try it and be
convinced-
njfBEZJWSTfO!
WEI3G*)
a
iu\w
oisr. a £ d 4 BorT LTLQrsj^zr.
DiSTI LLEB!fcs,eS;«g •
>*aißOußN f . AUCTCKnA. \
, PirtT S, ru-^^
s'
V
♦
{Jhc VorW
Purest


The “WILD CAT” MONTHLY for June
NOW ON SALE, PRICE 2/-
CONTAINS REVIEWS
OF
AERATED BREAD CO., LTD.
ANTHONY HORDERN & SONS
ARTHUR RICKARD & CO.
EXTENDED, LTD.
BAGOT’S EXECUTOR AND
TRUSTEE CO., LTD.
THE BANK OF ADELAIDE
THE BANK OF AUSTRALASIA.
BANKERS & TRADERS INSUR-
ANCE CO., LTD.
BON MARCHE, LTD.
BURNS, PHILP & CO., LTD.
CHARLES BIRKS & CO., LTD.
THE COLONIAL SUGAR REFIN-
ING CO., LTD.
DENTAL & MEDICAL SUPPLY
CO., LTD.
DOMARA RIVER PLANTATIONS
DUDLEY & DWYER, LTD.
THE ENGLISH ELECTRIC CO.
OF AUSTRALIA, LTD.
EQUITABLE BUILDING SOCIETY
FINNEY, ISLES & CO., LTD.
GIBSON & HOWES, LTD.
LUKE MURAS, LTD.
MOTOR FINANCE, LTD.
THE NEW ZEALAND FARMERS’
FERTILIZER CO., LTD.
THE NORTHCOTE BRICK CO.
PROVIDENT LIFE ASSURANCE
CO., LTD.
TOWNSVILLE GAS AND COKE
CO., LTD.
WASHINGTON H. SOUL, PATTIN-
SON & CO., LTD.
WEST S, LTD.
THE WICKHAM & BULLOCK
ISLAND COAL CO., LTD.
YOUNGHUSRAND, LTD.
Latest Share Market Prices and Returns to Investors.
Tin Mining Reports.
NO INVESTOR, BIG OR LITTLE, CAN AFFORD TO MISS THIS ISSUE
“Six-Cylinder Love,” the cheerfullest show
in town, is talking of departing, mainly
because the rlepertorians are clamoring for
the King’s. nevue-manufacturer George
Ward has this week brought the Ku-Klux
Klan to Melbourne Bijou,
•*» '!» ‘l* ?!>
“The Sea Beast,” adapted from Herman
Melville’s “Moby Dick,” is Melbourne Majes
tic’s star attraction for the week. The way
John Barrymore conceals the half of his
leg supposed to have been devoured by the
demented whale is a remarkable feature. It
is a grim tale, powerfully told, and the pic-
tures of waterspouts and storms at sea sur-
pass Bass Straits for realism. The film is
only a second cousin to the book, but it is
by no means a poor relation. Hoyt’s current
fiction includes “Three Bad Men” in a lot
of prairie, and a romantic story of fabulous
European princedoms called “The Lady in
Ermine.” Corinne Griffith is the creature
thus fortunately garbed.
Melbourne Art:—
Murray Griffin, who -is showing oils at the New
Gallery, Melbourne, is one of the younger school, but
some of his work is remarkably mature. He has a
sense of the reality that is behind the bald shows of
Nature, and he mixes it with pleasant color and a
decorative style. “The Silent Pool” is a very fetching
harmony, and the green dazzle of the new leaf is in
the burnt bush in No. 15, “Resurgam.” The clouds
in No. 4 are a bit too conscious of their own import-
ance, and the sea refuses to lie comfortably in its
bed ; but these are minor faults in a display that is
full of variety and merit.
Australia at the R.A.:—
This year’s Royal Academy exhibition is less Aus-
tralian than any other for years past; and the
artists who are not represented include most of those
best known to fame. James Quinn has, however,
done his reputation ample justice in an attractive por-
trait of Mrs. A. E. K. Cull, a handsome young matron
with golden-brown bobbed hair in a black evening
gown. Lady Lettice Lygon, daughter of Lord Beau-
champ, is a half-length portrait by Simon Elwes. The
sitter is in shadowy white, and there is a mystic
charm about the whole conception. A striking por-
trait is that of Eileen Robey, daughter of the com-
edian and herself an artist of great promise. There
is nothing in the picture to suggest her handsome
mother, Ethel Haydon, of Melbourne. Miss Robey is
of the Burne Jones order of beauty with brilliant
red hair. Harold Parker has been given a fine posi-
tion for his massive and striking sculpture, a bronze
statue of Prometheus in chains. His study, a bronze
relief profile head, is also well placed. Daniel
Altson’s small full-length portrait of Mrs. Nevin
Tait has many fine qualities, but is devoid of charm.
Mrs. Tait herself, under her art-name of Bess Nomas,
has an exhibit in the gallery devoted to miniatures—
a small study, “Maternity,” in white and gold, not
revealing the artist at her best. Jean P. Sutherland
has a still-life study. Norman Lloyd has done fine
work in his picture of Middle Harbor, Sydney, and
in another of Barrington Tops, Australia. Rodney 11.
Alsop’s “House in Toorak, Melbourne,” is well placed
in the architectural room, and Brook Hitch’s model
of Ross Smith’s statue for Adelaide has attracted
much favorable comment in the Central Hall. The
coin exhibits include the Canberra florin. A second
Ross Smith exhibit is the statuette by Adrian Jones.
The portrait of Queen Mary by Richard Jack, R.A.,
has pride of place in the show. It represents Her
Majesty as about seven feet high and without a line
on her face. If it were not for the silver hair she
might be an elegant mannequin of 25. But Her
Majesty has purchased the picture at the listed
price.
The Adelaide Repertory Theatre has just
staged Somerset Maugham’s comedy “The
Circle” for three nights. The three elderly
birds were Ray Walsh as Clive Champion-
Clieney, Ethelwyn Robin as his erring wife,
and Hubert Sando as the co-respondent Lord
Porteous. The younger triangle consisted of
Wallace Johnson, who delivered the goods as
Arnold Champion-Cheney, Beryl Kook, who
played Arnold’s wife with feeling and charm,
and Jack Ham. who presented an im-
petuous and infatuated Edward Luton. At the
Royal the Gallenoes. the Jarrows and Les
Athenas are keeping the tambourine a-rolling,
and the canary choir is acquitting itself
with distinction. At the Prince of Wales
the William Anderson co. has “The Little
Grey Home in the West” on the boards with
Hilda Dorrington at her best as Mary Rail-
del] in pursuit of the wicked. At the
Majestic Theatre is Lawrence Johnson, a
smart American ventriloquist, and the English
comedy pair, Jones and Raines. Also Arthur
Buckley and his wife continue to mystify and
Bert Chadwick does amazing dislocations.
The latest revue of the Gayle Wyer crowd
is “Mixed Doubles,” with some hilarious con-
fusion over dogs and babies. At West’s Pic-
tures “The Better Way” demonstrates the
advantages of being the typewriter lady in
a sharebroker’s office, when lucrative tips
are being dispensed. “Beau Geste” is still
drawing big business to the York, and Alex-
Watson. interpreter of the beautiful in
the English language, is having crowded
houses at the Town Hall.
Poverty
Point
“R.K.D.N.”: Gladys Moncrieff is having
a rough spin in London. As “The Blue
Mazurka” did not mazurk for long. Gladys
finds herself “resting” once more. She has
made a personal success with the Londoners,
but hasn’t had the luck to be in a “boom”
show.
“Lever de Rideau”: The unfortunate movie
man who had the job of making the official
film of the Duke and Duchess in Australia —-
it was privately screened last week at Mel-
bourne Capitol—did his best, but the result
isn’t heroic. The elderly legs of half the
politicians in the country kept getting be-
tween him and Australia. Before the film is
shown in England a hundred feet or so of
Parliamentarians should be eliminated to
make room for pictures of our scenic won-
ders and industrial achievements.
“Caul Boy”: The frequency with which
English playwrights accord this country the
compliment of fleeting mention rouses faint
suspicions. The nefarious Mrs. Cheney, for
instance, begins her career as an Australian
widow before she becomes the accomplice
of London crooks, and the Ringer, Mosco-
vitch’s murderer at Melbourne Royal, selects
this fair land to spend a brief vacation from
a life of crime. Mr. Pirn is '(another
example. One wonders whether Australia
becomes S’Africa or British Columbia when
the plays are showing in those places.
Harold Bowden: I am wondering where
“Caul Boy” (B. 2/6/’27) got his informa-
tion regarding the number of legitimate
houses in New York City. Prior to my de-
parture, early in April, there were about SO
—certainly under the 100. “Caul Boy”
says that perhaps the Firm’s representative
was not looking for plays by such authors
as Eugene O'Neill and George Kelly. As a
matter of fact, the Firm’s representative made
arrangements for Repertory production here
of O’Neill’s “Anna Christie” and purchased
Kelly’s great success. “The Show Off” : it will
be seen in Australia later this year. O’Neill’s
“Desire Under the Elms” has been men-
tioned. In it a young man seduces his step-
mother. When a baby arrives the step-
son has qualms of conscience and threatens
to leave on account of the child, so the
stepmother murders it. Is that the sort of
play “Caul Boy” would like Australian audi-
ences to witness?
“Lever de Rideau”: The Gonsalez Opera
Co. might have been an inexpensive pound of
butter (“Caul Boy,” B. 9/6/’27), but its
quality was high. Cappelli, its tenor, was
such a draw that, after the tour under the
Fuller management, he was engaged for a
series of concerts by a Maoriland syndicate.
Cappelli sang like an angel, and earned a lot
of money for the syndicate. Later, Fullers
took him back into vaudeville, but that
wasn’t his last Australian appearance. He
returned in 1924 as one of the stars of
Melba’s company under J.C.W.’s direction.
“Adsum” : During the latter part of the
Gilbert-Sullivan season in Perth the co. gave
“Ruddigore” a full rehearsal. Adelaide is to
see kon June 23. The co. stayed a month in
Perth and received enough appreciation to
establish the Groperland capital’s taste for
something more than jazz.
“Mako”: I, too, have seen “Hamlet” on
the screen (B. 9/6/’27). It was in
the days when there was not so much
combine, and stray pictures used to get to
Maoriland from odd sources. The players
were Danes, and Hamlet, a tall, handsome
boy with flowing fair hair, walked among
the actual scenes of the old Danish tragedy.
The real Elsinore was the background; and
the procession of the Court across the draw-
bridge of the ancient castle was a sight that
no Hollywood fake could approach.
“A.8.D.”: You cpn’t keep a good diva
down. Melba will have the privilege of pay-
ing the first fee for the use of the new Mel-
bourne Town Hall. The date is uncertain;
but the programme will include “Home Sweet
Home” and Tosti’s “Good-bye.”
“Santander”: I admire the endeavors of
the Firm’s publicity expert to present
Heifetz as a much-travelled man. Lately the
lad was stated to have toured through Borneo
and the Celebes, playing to enraptured head-
eaters on priceless Strads that were preserved
against coming unstuck in the tropical heat
by being put to bed in “special metal cases.”
Next he was sent to Jerusalem; but, pos-
sibly ' having some doubt as to whether
Heifetz’s co-religionists would pay large sums
to hear his music in the city, the publicity
hound had the boy scraping his fiddle before
a concourse of Bedouins in the desert.
Accounts of Jake’s adventures in Nova Zeui-
bla, Sierra Leone and Terra del Fucgo may
be expected at any moment.
“Middle Blue”: Clarice Hardwieke, the
Prahran girl now having her London chance
at Drury-lane, was a pupil of Jennie Brenan,
and made her first appearance as a dancing
kid in Melbourne. She crossed to Sydney to
dance in the Genee ballets. When she became
a talking actress with Ethel Dane in the
“Glad Eye” co. she shuddered to think of
ballet-dancing again. Yet her dancing has
more to do with her success now than her
gifts for comedy.
“East Side”: “Abie’s Irish Rose” has at
last reached London, where it is being played
at the Apollo by “a cast specially selected in
New York by the authoress.” The Australian
cast was also specially selected by the author-
ess. This shows that there must be scores of
Hebraic and Irish comedians in A.merica who
have appeared in the piece during its five
years’ run. A story current on Broadway
tells of a Jewish peddler of jewellery who
announced that he was selling out his stock
at less than half-price, as lie was retiring
from business. He had accepted an offer at
a big salary to play in “Abie’s Irish Rose”
for the rest of his life.
“Lud”: Edgar Wallace, author of “The
Ringer,” now at Melbourne Royal, has two
new plays running in London: “Double
Dan” and “The Terror.” Two more are be-
ing got ready for West End production, “The
Squeaker” and “Captain of Souls.” And
managers are rushing Edgar with commis-
sions for more. When in the army Wallace
was reputed to be a bit of a pugilist. He
has certainly got a punch as a playwright.
“C.H.S.”: The Adelaide gods didn't
care for “The Green Hat.” They did not
complain of the morbidity or the sordidity;
they did not object to it being a “bad”
play; they disliked it because it was a bad
play. They found the dialogue none the
less dull because of the obvious efforts
of the playwright to put smart speeches
into the mouths of the wrong characters;
and were convinced that the play should
have stopped in the nursing-home at the end
of the third act —it would have given them
more time to catch trams. But they “called”
ihe players at the drop of each “curtain.
They bad no doubts as to the fine acting.
“Lao-dali” : Has anyone run across Travel-
ling Hendry? I met him on the Templestowe
(Vic.) road, making for the sunrise. He
carried, as well as a matilda, a hoop and
other accessories of his craft. Three bright,
intelligent dogs trotted at his heels, carrying
frying-pan, billies, etc., neatly packed on their
backs. They are trained animals and never
fail to earn their and their master’s tucker
by performing at wayside pubs. According
to their ringmaster the troupe has done its
stuff from one end of Australia to another,
from Perth to Darwin, and in six years of a
continuous season has covered 40,000 miles.
This beats “Rose Marie.”
“Hamfat”: A small-part member of a
travelling theatrical co., dignified with the
title of treasurer, fled with but a note of
farewell. The town was sympathetic: and a
committee of townsmen organised a benefit
which got a bumper house, while the credi-
tors sympathetically cut down their bills to
a mere half. The co. went out of the town
prosperous; and naturally when difficulties
were again experienced another defaulting
treasurer was manufactured. It became a
splendid stand-by in bad times.
THE SPOT-LIGHT.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Far from the theatre’s fuss and strife
I lead a solitary life ;
Remote, unseen, from my high cage
I turn my spot-light on the stage.
The villain in his hectic scene
I viler make with blue and green,
And beautiful in amber glow
The heroine I proudly show.
For he-men used to God’s fresh air
A ruddy tan’s the only wear;
But errors I must never make
And spot a super by mistake.
PUSS, PUSS, PUSS!
FLOSSIE: “D’you hear —all my jewellery was stolen last night!”
GERTIE: “Yes, darling. Shame, isn’t it! I don’t know why the police don’t stop these
petty thefts!”
Without my narrow little ray
There’d be no climax to the play ;
Both stalls and circle, it is clear,
Would bo uncertain whom to cheer.
What sets the gallery a-throb?
I am the man who does the job.
Where would the gallant hero be
Without my clever artistry?
Invisible, I am the cause
Of that spontaneous applause.
Once I an actor, too, had been :
Now I’m the god of the machine.
N.S.W.
A. H. A.


Shipping.
WINTER TOURS
Escorted Tours to
JAVA : : MALAYA
SIAM : : JAPAN
Independent Inclusive Tours to
HO NO LULU, CALIFORNIA,
BRITISH COLUMBIA,
SOUTH AFRICA, CEYLON,
NORTH QUEENSLAND.
WINTER SPORTS AT:
Mount Buffalo (Vic.), Mount Cook (N.Z.),
South Sea Island Cruises.
Special Programme Post Free from
THOS. COOK & SON,
MELBOURNE: SYDNEY:
269 Collins Street. Martin Place.
ADELAIDE: PERTH:
49a Grenfell Street. 22 Forrest Street (Opp. G.P.0.).
Huddart Parkei
* a Steamship?
STEAMERS TO NEW ZEALAND —Regular sailings
from Sydney to New Zealand ports and vice versa.
Particulars to be obtained on application.
STEAMERS TO TASMANIA—From Sydney to Hobart
and vice versa as per daily papers. Between Mel-
bourne and Launceston as per daily papers.
For full particulars apply HUDDAItT PARKER LIMITED
Collins Street, Melbourne; Bridge Street, Sydney,
BRISBANE, via BYRON BAY
Through Tickets to Brisbane issued.
S.S ORARA—Every Saturday evening; passengers
due Brisbane Monday afternoon.
S.S. WOLLONGBAR—Every Tuesday evening;
passengers due Brisbane Thursday afternoon.
Both vessels fitted with Wireless Receiving Sets.
„ BRISBANE:
FARES—
Steamer and Motor throughout, Single, £4
.<teamer and Motor throughout, Return, £7/5/-
•Steamer and First-class Rail, Single, £3/15/-
Steamer and Second-class Rail, Single, £3/8/-
NORTH COAST S. N. CO., LTD.,
Passengers’ Booking Office:
TOURIST BUREAU, CHALLIS HOUSE,
MARTIN PLACE, SYDNEY.
Brisbane Booking Agents: Burns, Philp and Co., Ltd.
PAUSE AWHILE IN SUNNY
HAWAII
Enjoy eternally balmy weather—in novel setting
of tropical moonlight and melody, quaint tea-
rooms, Oriental bazaars. Exciting surfing and
outrigger canoeing at Waikiki. Enchanted
cruises to the lovely islands of Kauai, Maui
and Hawaii. Golf and motor on all principal
islands. A vacation that is different. Good
hotels from 12/- to £3 per day, with meals.
No extra cost for “stop-over” privilege en
route to America or Europe. Round-trip,
Sydney and return, 8 .weeks or less (3 or 4
weeks in Hawaii), £lOO to £l5O, inclusive.
Ask nearest travel or steamship agent; or
write Hawaii Tourist Bureau, Dept. 26, Box
241 D, G.P.0., Sydney, N.S.W., for full infor-
mation in attractive booklet, attaching this
advertisement,
PLAN NOW TO ENJOY
HAWAII
Banking, Public Companies, etc.
The Australian Bank of Commerce Limited
Authorised Capital .. .. .. £5,000,000
Capital Paid Up and Reserves .. .. £2,685,303
Aggregate Assets at 30th. June, 1926 . . £16,789,590
Directors: Sir Mark Sheldon, K.B.E., Chairman ;
Frank N. Yarwood ; Duncan Carson; H. R.
Lysaght, O.B.E. ; George J. Sly, LL.D. ; Lieut. -
Col. T. L. F. Rutledge.
General Manager: O. M. C. Shannon.
Chief Inspector for N.S.W.: W. G. Hull.
HEAD OFFICE, SYDNEY (Corner George and King
Streets).
Branches and Receiving Offices at 151 places in
New South Wales.
BRISBANE (264 Queen Street).
Chief Inspector for Queensland: L. Aveyabd.
Manager: G. H. Howell.
Branches and Receiving Offices at 27 places in
Queensland.
MELBOURNE (325 Collins Street).
Manager: M. B. Finney.
ADELAIDE (35 Rundle Street).
Manager: R. T. Moodie.
PERTH, W.A. (73 St. George's Terrace).
Manager: A. C. Dibdin.
LONDON (37 Threadneedle Street, E.C.2),
Manager: A. F. Jenkins.
London Directors :
A. Donns Fairrairn, Alfred Shepherd.
Agdits throughout Australia. Tasmania and New
Zetland, and at all the Chief Cities of the World.
Every description of Banking Business Transacted.
Bank of New Zealand.
SYDNEY BRANCH:
Corner GEORGE and WYNYARD
STREETS.
Guaranteed Stock .. .. .. £529,988
Preference Shares .. .. .. 1,875,000
Ordinary Shares .. .. .. 3.750,000
Reserve Fund and Undivided Profits 3,390,378
GRANTS DRAFTS
on Australia, New
Zealand, Fiji, Samoa,
Great Britain and Ireland, and other places.
RECEIVES DEPOSITS
at interest
for fixed
periods and transacts all other usual Banking business.
Australian Mutual
»7?m$"sjciiw Provident Society
The .Largest and Most Successful
Mutual Life Office in the British Empire,
Distributes a Cash Bonus Every Year.
Amount Distributed for single year 1920 £2,887,200
Yielding Reversionary Additions to
Policies of over £4,893,000
Accumulated Funds .. .. .. £63,600,000
Annual Income £9,600,000
The Society transacts Every Class of Ordinary
and Industrial Assurance Business.
H. W. APPERLY, F.S.S., General Manager.
Shipping, etc.
CANADA, UNITED STATES,
UNITED KINGDOM
FORTNIGHTLY SAILINGS FROM SYDNEY.
CANADIAN-AUSTRALASIAN ROYAL MAIL LINE.
via Auckland, Suva (Fiji), Honolulu, Victoria and Vancouver,
UNION ROYAL MAIL LINE
via Wellington, Rarotonga, Tahiti and San Francisco.
MAKURA 8,072 tons, JUNE 16, for San Francisco.
AORANGI 17,400 „ JUNE 30, for Vancouver.
TAHITI 7,900 „ JULY 14, for San Francisco.
NIAGARA 13,415 „ JULY 28, for Vancouver.
Fast and splen-
didly equipped
steamers using
oil fuel.
Spacious Decks,
Unrivalled
Cuisine.
wmm***, »
*****
The Scenic
Routes to the
United Kingdom,
via South Sea
Islands, Canada,
United States.
TICKETS TO THE UNITED KINGDOM INTERCHANGEABLE FOR
RETURN BY OTHER LINES.
HONOLULU EXCURSIONS BY AORANGI AND NIAGARA.
UNION STEAM SHIP CO.
( Union House, 247 George Street, Sydney.
\ William Street, Melbourne.
MACDONALD, HAMILTON & CO., Brisbane, Adelaide and Perth.
SOUTH SEA TOURS
Attractive Island Trips, occupying about Weeks.
SIX-WEEKLY SAILINGS FROM SYDNEY TO
S.S. ‘‘MONTORO*’ (5000 tons)
Sails June 28 and August 9.
New Britain:
Solomon Islands: s s
"MATARAM" (3500 tons)
Sails July 20 and August 81.
A Delightful Holiday in Island Wonderlands.
For Particulars apply—
BURNS, PHILP & CO., LTD.,
Sydney, Melbourne, Adelaide and Brisbane.
ë
ē
ĕ
ė
BURNS, PHILP & CO., LTD.,
Passenger Booking Agents for Ail Steamship Lines
To
ENGLAND CANADA JAPAN
EUROPE AFRICA CHINA
AMERICA INDIA JAVA, etc.
At regular passage rates. No extra charge.
Attractive Tour to
NOUMEA, JAVA, HONOLULU, COLOMBO, etc.
VISIT JAVA (The wonderland of the East).
Regular monthly sailings of the s.s. “Marella” and
m.s. “Malabar” to Java and Singapore via Queensland
ports, Thursday Island, Darwin, etc. Smooth-water trip,
Deck Cabins, interesting ports of call.
APPLY
BURNS, PHILP & COMPANY, LIMITED,
WORLD TOUR arid TRAVEL DEPARTMENT.
7 BRIDGE STREET, SYDNEY.
South Africa and England
by
ABERDEEN LINE
BLUE FUNNEL LINE
WHITE STAR LINE
Joint
Service
A combined service offering unequalled
facilities at moderate rates.
♦Ascanius. . . 10,000 tons,
•(•Demosthenes 11,500 ~
§*Nestor.... 15,000 „
fThemistocles 11,500 ~
.. . 18,500 ~
August 1
Sept. 8
Sept. 21
Oct. 10
Oct. 18
♦First class only. fFirst and Third class.
s“Cnbin” class only. §Via Suez Canal.
For full particulars apply to:
Dalgety 8 Co., Ltd.
Gilchrist, Watt 8 Sanderson, Ltd.
Joint
Agents
Interstate Telegraphic address:
“NALDHAM.”
Cable address
“NALDHAM’
Macdonald, Hamilton 8 Co.
247 George Street, Sydney.
Shipping Agents, Merchants, Colliery
Proprietors, Tug and Lighter Owners.
MANAGING AGENTS FOR
Australasian United Steam Navigation Co., Ltd.
Fitzroy Estates, Ltd.
Blaeklieatli Collieries, Ltd., and Caledonian
Collieries, Ltd.
Eastern & Australian Steamship Co., Ltd.
AGENTS FOR
British-India S. N. Co., Ltd. P. & 0. S. N. Co.
Queensland Line of Steamers. Scottish Sliire' Line
(Turnbull, Martin & Co.). New Zealand Shipping Co.
Ltd. Canadian-Australasian Royal Mail Line, San
Francisco Service (Union S. S. Co.), Union S. S. Co
of New Zealand, Ltd. Ilain Line. Huddart Parker"
Ltd. London Assurance Corporation (Marine). Mel-
bourne Agents for Messageries Maritimes Co! Queens-
land Agents for Sea Insurance Co., Ltd.
BRANCHES at Perth, Fremantle, Adelaide Port
Adelaide, Melbourne, Suva (Fiji), Brisbane, ’Mary-
borough, Bundaberg and Bowen.
BANK. OF NEW SOUTH WALES.
Established 1817.
PAID-UP CAPITAL
RESERVE FUND
RESERVE LIABILITY
.a,
£6,875,000
4,750,000
6,875,000
£18.500,000
Directors:
Thomas Buckland, Esq., President.
The Hon Reginald J. Black, M.L.C.
Charles Binnie, Esq.
James Rums, Esq,
Robert L. Faithfull,
Robert W. Gillespie,
Franc B. S. Falkiner,
Esq., M.D.
Esq.
Esq.
Auditors: W. H. Palmer, Esq.; S. E. Laidlev, Esq. General Manager: OSCAR LINES.
Head Office —George Street, Sydney. London Office—29 Threadneedle Street. E.C. 2.
477 Branches and Agencies in the Australian States, Federal Territory, New Zealand. Fiji Papua
Mandated Territory of New Guinea and London. Agents and Correspondents throughout the world’
Cable remittances made to, and drafts drawn on Foreign places DIRECT. Foreign Bills
negotiated ar.d collected, Letters of Credit Issued, negotiable throughout the world. °
, Shipping, etc.
Inter-State Steamship
Sailings,
(Passenger Sailings—Circumstances permitting.)
FOR MELBOURNE, ADELAIDE and FREMANTLE
(Transhipping at Melbourne for Geelong and other
Victorian ports; at Adelaide for S.A. Gulf ports;
and at Fremantle for Perth, Bunbury, Geraldton
and North-West Ports).
* Brisbane, Maclcay (no cargo for Mackay), Townsville
and Cairns.
P. & O. via THE CAPE
SERVICE.
ONE CLASS ONLY.
I’o LONDON, via Durban & Capetown.
ę
BELTANA
BENAT.LA
BO EDA
BEUIMMA
Tons.
. 11,100
. 11,100
. 11,100
. 11,100
Fares, from £37 to £45 to England, and
from £2l to £27 to South Africa.
AGENTS—GILCHRIST, WATT. SANDERSON.
Tel. 86701-2-3. 5 O’Connell Street, Sydney.
Wills, Gilchrist & Sanderson, Ltd., Brisbane.
John Sanderson & Co., Melbourne.
Geo. Wills & Co., Ltd., Adelaide.
HOTEL
iETROPOLE,
. . . SYDNEY.
Opposite Union Club and Two Minutes
from Entrance to Domain and Circular
Quay.
TARIFF from 18/6 per day, or apart-
ments may be secured separately by the
day from 6/6 and upwards. Cards of Tariff
and all particulars posted on application
to The Manager.
Keep hopping and hoping if you wish
to succeed
ě
THINK OF
SCHUTE,
BELL&Cuo.
if you have
Wool & Skins
to Sell.
Personal Attention.
Offices: 44 Bridge Street. Sydney.
A ijlj AUSTRALIANS visiting London
•rv should read the British Australian
and New Zealander, 6d. weekly—an illus-
trated paper containing mail and cable news
from Australia and news of Australians in
Europe and at home. Australians are cordi-
ally invited to visit the British Australian
and New Zealander Reading-room at the
Offices, 414-17 Australia House, Strand.
London, WC.2, where they can see the home
papers, meet their friends, use the telephone
and obtain information without charge.
Copies of the paper and general information
can he obtained at the Australian Advertis-
ing Agency. Ltd.. 350 George Street, Sydney;
or- 424 Pollute Street. Melbourne.
RUPTURE,
A FREE TR9AL.
If yo»* «re troubled with the complaint, write us and
we will send you our catalogue, fully describing our
PATENT AIR CUSHION APPLIANCE.
This appliance does away with all cumbersome
springs, giving a feeling of ease and comfort from the
first day’s use. It is the most scientific appliance yet
invented for this complaint. It will hold a rupture
firmly and comfortably under all conditions.
To prove what we state
WE OFFER TO SEND IT TO YOU
ON A FREE TRIAL.
.If it it not satisfactory we do not expect you to keep
it, and the trial costs you nothing. It is suitable for
men, women and children, and the price is within
the reach of all.
ILLUSTRATED CATALOGUE
posted free anywhere.
THE WINSLOW CO.
104 Queet Street, Melbourne, Vic.


fevV^v
* f; m
fS*
1 i
V
M
yl
nA,^
I,?
0
h
-ol
V"
K
(O
V
•i
Uji
i\
rwi®
f
r M
& 2
4* L-«»»
V
1
~N
Harmonious mk?
No. 501 Receiver, Treasure Chest, !
coils shielded; operates from AC
lighting; circuit or batteries.
Price less accessories
-tube;
house
£65/17/6
e
No. 5-A Cone
Speaker. Violin
wood sound-
board. Incensed
under L e k t o-
phone patents
1271527 and 127-
1529. O t li e r
patents pending.
Price . . £ll/11/-
Complete power supply equipment for
Stromberg-Carlson Receivers. Left to
right:
Xo. 2908 “A” Socket-Power Unit,
£l6/10/-
Jio. 301 Power-Switching Relay, £4/10/-
?fo. 403 “B” Socket-Power Unit with
U.X.-213 tube £lB/18/-
to Eye and Ear
W WHY, Edith, it’s beautiful! When I heard
that John had given you a Radio, I couldn’t
quite see it in this perfect room of yours. But,
it makes it all the prettier.”
“Yes, isn’t it good-looking. But wait till you
hear it. It’s a Stromberg-Carlson, you know,
and the tone is the clearest, purest thing I’ve
ever heard.”
Stromberg-Carlson receivers do combine beauty of
tone with beauty of appearance. Throughout the whole
receiver every precaution is taken to preserve the natural-
ness and beauty which a program possesses when it leaves
the broadcasting station. Total shielding protects it as it
enters the receiver and is amplified. A truly remarkable
audio system insures that the program leaving it is a
natural reproduction of the original.
Combined with these features is a beauty that is stately,
yet simple, elegant, yet conservative. The lines of the
Stromberg-Carlson blend harmoniously with the furnish-
ings of any home. It is a pleasure to see a Stromberg-
Carlson. It is also a pleasure to hear one.
Stromberg-Carlson (Australasia) Ltd.
Berk House, 76 William Street, Sydney, N.S.W.
’Phone: F 4184
Let your dealer arrange a Stromberg-Carlson demonstration tag
you and try it yourself.
tromber^Carlson
SMakers of voice transmission and voice reception apparatus for more than 30 years
kMI


A Message to
Kidney Sufferers!
DR. SHELDON’S GIN PILLS are the remedy you require for Backache,
Kidney, Bladder and Urinary Trouble. If they don’t benefit you we will
refund the purchase price. SHELDON DRUG CO., LTD.
That’s a plain, straightforward statement, and the words mean exactly what
they say.
Dr. Sheldon’s Gin Pills are the remedy you need if yo» suffer from Back-
ache, Kidney, Bladder or Urinary Trouble.
They must benefit you, or your money will be cheerfully refunded.
You are to be the judge and jury.
Your word will be accepted as final.
Your money will be returned without quibble or argument of any kind if
Gin Pills do not benefit you.
Consider what this method of doing business means.
It means that Gin Pills will benefit 99 cases of Backache, Kidney, Bladder
or Urinary Troubles out of every 100.
We have substantial proof of these from practically every centre in Australia.
It also means that we have a large faith in the honesty of men and women.
We do not believe that a single man or woman out of 100 who have suffered
the torments of Backache, Kidney, Bladder or Urinary troubles would deny the
they would receive from treatment with Gin Pills.
W e are sure 99 out of 100 would joyously admit it.
GIN
PILLS
WILL
HELP YOU
This extraordinary offer is made because of these facts:—
The known medicinal properties of Gin Pills and the honesty of human nature.
Each Gin Pill contains all the constituents, with the exception of alcohol,
of a pint of the finest gin, combined with other known diuretics, and forms a
remedy which benefits almost every case. Gin Pills are put up in glass bottles,
hermetically sealed, and we sell them to you with the absolute assurance that
if thej do not benefit you we will refund your money.
They are sold in two size bottles —at 1/9, or in large bottles, holding more
than double the quantity, at 2/9.
Buy a large bottle at 2/9 and give them a fair test, use two-thirds of the
bottle, and if you feel they are not benefiting you, return your bottle to the
chemist or storekeeper from whom you purchased it, and lie will refund the
money; or communicate direct with the Sh’eldon Drug Co., Limited, 131-35
Clarence Street, Sydney.
Under these conditions is it not worth while for any sufferer from Backache,
Kidney, Bladder or Urinary Trouble to at once test this wonderful remedy?
Dr. Sheldon’s Gin Pills
For Backache and Kidney Troubles.
y.
i 3WOW
CAaayo
1
'
v
ill
sHK
I ■
m
IlSf p
J
■f, a
L 5
aS^iUa
I\i
n
ss
J
t*
S
■
a i
f:
ill
V ■
r
\
HILLIER'S
CHOCOLATES
“And he’s brought me
one of those lovely
Big Red Boxes!’’
Made to-day and mailed
to you to-day.
Send for Catalogue Illustrated
with reproductions of our Con-
fectionery in color.
PRICES:
3/-, 5/6, 6/-, 10/-, 12/6,
20/- and 30/-
Post Free to any address in
Austraiia.
tkiiuA
162-166 PITT STREET
BRAN CUES:
CR. GEORGE cf KING STREETS
CASTLE REACH S TREET,
NEXT THEATRE ROYAL ,
S YD NE Y.
Autumn Discontent.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
I.
NOW autumn, mellow with the year’s
content,
Pipes in calm days a music faint and
sweet
On yellow stems that spring beneath the
feet
Of small seed-questing birds. The grass is
bent
This way and that to make a curving tent
For the shrill cricket in the noonday heat;
And flying thistle-down, as frail as fleet,
Wealth of the dying weed, is lightly spent.
The happy skies arc washed a deeper blue.
The happy trees are whispering of full
heart
The love of that brown mother, the good
earth,
Who nourishes her children with sweet dew
To green forgetfulness of summer’s dearth;
And I alone dream, wistful and apart.
11.
So many wizard autumns have I seen
Making soft magic of the woods and ways,
Filling the gracious nights and tender days
With pageantry of gold and silver sheen,
Holding a staff of youth whereon might lean
The age-bent year, till through some morn’s
wet haze
The dying chill of winter with amaze
Shook to a palsy all the leafy green.
Not death was in that trembling, but so near
Came the great ending that the harsh spent
air
Was full of whispers of despairing things;
And I, remembering to the brink of fear,
Feel all the joyous heart of all the springs
Mocked by these skies that are so still and
fair.
111.
0 spring, remembered best when past recall,
I have forgiven all your teasing play,
Your ruffling winds, too indolently gay,
That broke the trellised roses from the wall.
Only your laughter holds me still in thrall.
You were so young; and all the living day
Your voice was calling me from far away
To find the fairest hidden thing of all.
Dear cheating girlhood of this restless world,
When that tall woman, summer, took your
place,
With glittering days and long luxurious eves,
I still had visions of your winsome face;
And now, from autumn’s solemn scarf un-
furled,
I see you glance as one who loves and
grieves.
IV.
Here is all comfort where discomfort went
In motley, with the little bells that made
Thin discord, when the world was half
afraid
To see its shadow in the water bent.
Gone are the passing moods when anger lent
Wings to a scorn by its own speech dis-
mayed ;
Gone are the tragedies sincerely played,
Lost in one drama—autumn discontent.
Boyhood in spring, youth in the summer glow,
Sad manhood in the autumn, growing sere
With weight of needless wisdom and distrust.
So runs the circle of the foolish year.
The calm days veil in reverie some fierce lust
To break the young faiths broken long ago.
V.
A yellow light streams out behind the hill;
The dark stems rise like pillars to the
height
Of the great roof, where fingers of soft
light
Trace arabesques that ever move and thrill
In flickering change, though every leaf is
still.
It is but sunset and the day’s swift flight
Writing a message to the coming night—
Nay, writing some strange message to my
will.
Spring, summer, autumn—l am more than
these,
More than the sunset and the evening star.
There is a boy within me strong to fling
The winter from my hair and make a breeze
( Of tired airs that having come too far
Can never know my heart is still in spring.
n.s.w.
DAVID McKEE WRIGHT.
A Cow with a Young Calf.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
BRINGING home a cow with a young
calf is different to bringing home a
friend to dinner. It’s one of the things
the Government doesn’t tell you about when
informing you about the richness of the
soil, the salubrity of the climate, the heavy
rainfall and the other happy conditions that
surround your little grey homestead.
But you get to know all about it in good
time. One day when in the middle of the
ploughing and going for dear life to finish
before the ground gets too hard, and when
there’s a paddock of lucerne waiting to be
cut before the leaf falls off, and a couple
of chains of broken fence to be mended, and
the roof of the barn to be pitched a couple
ot feet higher and the building made bigger,
and (according to the agricultural experts)
a hundred acres of bush-hay to be cut as
a stand-by for a rainy day, the kids come
tearing home from school after losing the
newspaper and a letter you’ve been waiting
tor for months with a cheque in it for the
sale of pigs. to tell you that Mr. .Terry M'ori-
arty told his boys to tell them to tell you
that when he was out on the commonage he
saw a red cow of yours with a white back,
and it had a young calf sucking her; and
if you don’t go out soon and get her some-
one 11 steal her and brand the calf.
“A red cow with a white back?” you re-
peat, shaking your head doubtingl.v. No,
you re sure lie’s made a mistake. But the
kids are certain that Mr. Moriarty said it
was a red cow with a white back, and that
she had your brand on, and had a young
calf, and was yours. Then you think a lot,
recalling the color and image of every beast
that ever you owned, and letting them pass
in procession through your mind as if it
' was a dip, till at last you feel like being
offered a live cow and calf for nothing, and
[ don’t dare to take them. Somehow you get
a better opinion of Jerry Moriarty’s know-
! ledge of cattle than you had before, and you
reckon it would be hard for him, who’s
, always riding about the bush and knows
everyone’s brand, and is more interested in
other people’s stock than he is in his own,
to make an error about it.
Yet, in your heart you feel she can’t be-
long to you, no matter what her brand is.
Still, you don’t want to convince yourself
quite that she’s not your property,
for if she’s not yours, whose is she?
And so you ponder and reason with yourself
until you’ve finished the milking and the
kids have retrieved the paper and the letter
with a cheque in it. But after you’ve fed
the poddies and kicked a couple of them in
the ribs for bunting into you as if you were
their mother and had teats hanging all round
you, you get a brain-wave.
You rem,ember that when you put your
starving little herd out on the commonage
after buying feed for them all through the
last big drought, and went to muster them
after the rain came, there were some missing
that you reckoned were dead—you were
surprised they weren’t all dead- —and one
was a little red heifer with a white back,
not much bigger than a dog, that you reared
on the bucket. “Cripes, that must be her!”
you chuckle, slapping yourself on the leg.
“Grown into a cow, and got a calf!” Then
you’re off, liot-foot, to the house, calling
out for the wife, and describing yourself as
a goat.
The wife, with an apron on and sleeves
rolled up and a knife in her hand, turns
away from the frying-pan with some of the
yellow of an egg on her nose, and listens to
you. “Of course,” she’ll say, “that’ll be the
calf of the big red cow that burst on the
lucerne. It’ll be more than two years old
now, and there were two others that you
thought were dead —what about them ?” Then
an epidemic of brain-waves comes over you.
“P’raps,” you say, “ they’ll be alive, too, and
have got calves.” But the wife, who has a
better memory than you have for births and
sexes, shakes her head, and says, “No. They
were both bulls.”
But that doesn’t matter, and you get
more and more uplifted till you feel you’ve
found gold in a worked-out quarry, and you
flop on a chair or something, and sit gaping
and trying to remember what the other two
were like, and if they were doctored or only
branded when you put them out. And so you
meditate till supper-time.
There’s no ploughing for you next day.
You’re on to Newchum after breakfast and
out to the commonage. The plough horses
stand at the fence watching you going with
approving eyes. They’d rather see you in
the saddle than between the handles of the
plough. Before you’re out of sight of the
homestead you meet Wilkins on his way to
the factory and you stop and tell him what
you’re off after. He says “Yairs” and “Y’
don’t tell me” while filling his pipe from
your tobacco and squinting at you through a
fly-veil. And when he’s lit his pipe and is
just going to drive on again he says: “Nearly
all o’ mine died out on that blarsted place,
but now, on what you’ve been tellin’ me,
p’raps some o’ them’s alive yet, too.” And at
the factory he spreads the news that some
heifers of yours that died on the commonage
in the big drought have come to life again,
and all have got calves, and you’ve gone out
to bring them in to milk. Before noon it’s
known all round the country, and talked of
round dinner tables ; and there’s some who’ll
feel pleased to hear that someone’s having a
bit of luck, even if they ain’t.
The commonage, you find, ain’t laid out
like an experimental farm. It’s a large area
of waste range country hurdled over with
rocks and fallen timber and precipices, and
with a big hell-liole and a little hell-hole
occupying most of the area—-country that
early squatters despised, and so was dedi-
cated by Government to the shire council for
the use of small settlers, township people,
horse planters and cattle stealers. The
township people use it when they want fire-
wood, or when they have an old horse or a
cow that’s likely to die on their hands and
run up a bill for being dragged out of the
town and burnt; and horse planters use it
all the year round. There isn’t a gate or
sliprails to the commonage, and the only
boundary lines it has are surveyors’ marks
cut into trees, and most of the trees have
been cut down for bees’ nests and slabs and
fencing posts. You know when you’re on il
by the abundance of bleached bones and scat-
tered horns lying about; and the knee-caps
and knuckle-bones shining on the ridge-sides
and in the hollows look like crops of mush-
rooms.
It’s been a good season, too, following the
drought, and though there’s little real grass
there’s plenty of vegetation and herbage and
green bushes, and the tree-clad ridges are
heavily decked with blossoms and drugged
with the drowsy humming of locusts. And
of course there’s birds of bright plumage
chortling and fluttering in the trees, but as
you aren’t looking for material to split rails
of poetry out of and don’t belong to a Sketch
Club or a Nature Study Society, you haven’t
much of an eye or an ear for parrots and
pee-wees and the like, except maybe wonga
pigeons or scrub turkeys, which you could
eat, if you had a gun. And you’re not there
to collect beetles and bones for the Museum,
either; or to see if the kangaroo brings its
joey into the world same, as cats and cows
do, or if it brings it to light in the pouch :
so you ride ahead over ridges and in and
out" of hollows with nothing in your head
but a red cow with a white back; and you’re
starving and straining for sight of her in
places where there’s no cows of any color,
or bulls or steers either, till you feel like
a ship floundering on rough seas with no
land in sight.
Your great hope is to come across her on
the tableland, such as it is. for you have no
wish to go down into big hell-hole or litt!
hell-liole in search of her. You’ve been down
(Continued on next page.)


jn
m
m
m
«*a
m.
Obtainable from every
dealer in Australia. Arks, 8a
RADIO VALVE
Every man who uses a Mullard
P.M. Valve in his radio receive*
has found it.
Found it to his intense satisfaction
and delight.
The P.M. Filament can be tied in knot,
after 1000 hours life. It is the only
Filament which carries the published
report of the British Government Labora-
tory Test.
It holds the key to perfect and economi-
cal radio reception.
There is a Mullard P.M. Valve with the
Wonderful P.M. Filament for every
holder in your set.
FIT P.M. VALVES
For 2-volt accumulator
P.M-1 H.F
P.M.I L.F
P.M.2 (Power)
For 4-volt accumulator or 3 dry cells
P.M.3 'General Purpose)
P.M.4 (Power)
For 6-volt accumulator or 4 dry cells
P.M.5 (General Purpose)
P.M.58 (Res. Capacity)
P.M.6 (Power)
Super power valves for last L.F. stage
P.M.254 ••• ... (4 volts
P.M.256 ... 6 volts)
AU Mullard Valves are made at the
Balbam, London, F.ng.
o'l amp 13/6
O'l amp. 13/6
o'ls amp. 13/6
O'l amp. 13'6
O'l amp. 13/6
O't amp. 13/6
0.1 amp. 13/6
O'l amp. 13/6
0.25 amps. 15/.
0'25 amps. 15/-
Mullard Works,
Mullard
THE » MASTER. « VALVE
The Mullard Wireless Service Co., Ltd, Mullard House , Denmark St., London, W.C,, Eng ,
Advt.
Take ENO with you
NY change of climate is apt to throw the inner
xY system out of humour and out of tune. Safe'
guard yourself against these troubles when travelling
—always take ENO’s “Fruit Salt” with you. It is
the simplest and most efficacious corrective you can
take. The morning “dash” of ENO in a glass of
water, will keep your whole system in perfect tune
when travelling and at all times.
Ask for the “Handy” size bottle. It was intro*
duced specially for the convenience of travellers.
The Household size (double quantity) is more suit'
able for family use.
Prepared only by
J. C. ENO, Limited,
London. England.
Sales Agents: The British
Harold F.Ritchie & Co .
Ltd.. Sydney. N.S.W
t
♦ *
**
IN
TWO SIZES
AT CHEMISTS
AND STORES.
THE WORDS “FRUIT SALT" AND ENO ARE REGISTERED TRADE MARKS.
in those holes more than once, and prayed
to the Almighty for guidance all the time you
were trying to get out of them again. And
as the search goes on what an imaginative
mind you have! Every animal that reveals
itself to you. camped in the undergrowth
or meditating under a tree or scratching
itself against a stump, seems like a red
cow with a white back, and starts your
heart jumping till you get right on to them.
Any of them that, are lying down and have
got anything like a red skin you, of course,
stir up to have a look at the brand. And
some of them, lying down chewing th’ cud,
and dreaming of grass and seasons long gone
by, are hollow-eyed, scaly, wliip-marked, old
working bullocks that lake a lot of stirring
up. Most of them would want boiling down
to be any good.
Working your way round a big mountain
to a flat above the springs, where once there
was an old station-yard and a slab hut with
augur-lioles bored in it big enough to hold
a gun barrel and that was handy, when the
squatters were done with it and no more
blacks were about, for liorse-planters to camp
in when it rained, you catch sight, of a mob
of cattle through the tree-tops. A track
little wider than a plank takes you round
the mountain, and the short cuts it takes
and the easy work it makes of the broken
sides and stiff climbs fill you with pride for
the bovine as a path-finder. You’re about
to descend the last pinch and your eyes
are bursting and your heart thumping at
sight of the mob of all colors, grazing peace-
fully over the flat, when suddenly with a
start Newchum stops, his ears pointing,
and stares hard. You get a start, too, and
next instant a horseman is scratching and
grunting his way up to meet you.
'He’s a grizzly-faced old chap with a
bumper crop of white whiskers, seemingly
born about the fourth year of Solomon’s
reign over Israel. And the animal he’s on
is an old brown cob that was once a great
horse, and still as game as a jumper ant.
And when the old chap, riding loose as
Oxford-bags and wearing a spur on one of
his heels and the remains of a cabbage-tree
hat on his head, struggles to the top of
tin pinch where you’re standing he wants
to know things: “Phwat th’ (levil are y’
blockin’ the track for? Can’t y’ get out of
tli’ way of a man’s horse? Isn’t th’ moun-
tain wide enough f’r ye?”
Then you grin, and ask him did he see
a red cow with a white back anywhere that’s
got a young calf? “Did I see phwat?” he
yells, waving a waddy at you that he’s
carrying in place of a whip. You’ll ask him
again and liq grunts: “Huh.... Don’t I
want all the eyes I have to see me own
baists without seein’ other people’s? But
phwat’s that back there lookin’ up at ye
but a red cow with a white back? Are
ye anew chum? Gahn wid you!” And
on he shuffles, scrambling up and up and
around that wind-haunted lonesome old
mountain, while you look after him and
wonder if Jim Marsden’s Old Dad in “Rob-
bery Under Arms,” the transgressor of laws
and breaker of covenants, could have been
in any way related to him? Then, thinking
lie ought to be making a dying statement
instead of riding about the ranges by him-
self, you take the track again and corkscrew
off that pinch.
There, looking at you, as the old chap
said, is a red cow with a white back ! How
your heart jumps then and your blood
tingles! And what a glorious feeling you
get. Gosh ! You ride round and round her
while she's turning and turning to keep an
eye on you and wondering what your game
is, for cows, like women, are pretty curious
when men come about. Slie's a youngish
cow, in full milk, and not long been sucked.
That must be her, right, enough, but you
want to see the brand, and until you do you
feel like a cove with a quid on a horse
that’s half a length in front but has live
or six more lengths to go to the winning-
post. As if to oblige you she turns the other
way round before making off, and there on
her milking side and plain as print is your
brand —“T2D.” You feel yourself rise right
out of the saddle, and for a while you’re
floating in air. Then you remember all
about her. and wonder how you ever forgot
her. And touching Newchum with your
heels you shoot out and head her.
While she stands again, staring indig-
nantly at you, and holding her head a lot
higher, you address words of greeting to
her, and like a big kid ask her where her
calf is? By inches her tail goes up on the
rising tide of her excitement; then off she
goes again, but this time with a bit of a
snort. But you don’t try to head her
again—not just then —you’re thinking of
the calf. You know, of course, not being a
punk from the city, that a cow with a calf
a few days old always puts it to sleep some-
where or other after giving it a suck, same
as your own mother used to do with your-
self ; that for a cradle she makes use of the
heads of fallen trees or undergrowth, or the
grass, if it's long and thick enough; and
that when she sees the offspring curled up
snug and comfortable she strolls off to for-
age a mouthful for herself, and doesn’t
return to the spot until it’s time for refresh-
ments again, or she gets word that the
youngster has got out of bed himself, or is
in danger in some way.
So leaving her to herself you start hunt-
ing round for the calf, riding steadily about
here, there and everywhere, examining fal-
len timber, bushes and the rim of the under-
growth. You shout into places and make
all sorts of noises, and sometimes you get
off and heave sticks to frighten the little
devil out of his sleep and make him jump
up and give himself away. All the time
the cow’s feeding, pretending she’s not a
bit interested except when you’re quite cold
and getting further and further off the scent.
Then she lifts her head and stares at you
as if she was getting afraid you’d find it.
But that’s only her bovine bluff. When
you’re getting hot she doesn’t lift her head
at all, but watches you out of the corner
of her eye, and stops wagging her ears so
as to catch every sound and holds her
breath.
While you're hunting round you come
across a white cow that’s been dead a couple
of days. You stand looking at her. Poor
devil! Her legs are stiff and pointing to
the sun. She’s had a calf. too. you can see,
and the wild dogs have been at her. But
a gentle breeze blowing from her makes
even Newchum snort and swing round, and
you let him go off his own way.
Thinking of the calf again you remember
old Stopes telling you how he once induced
a cow to find her calf by bellowing like
one himself. So you hang Newclium up
somewhere and putting your hands to your
mouth you become a lost lonely calf wanting
its mother, until you get hoarse and thirsty,
And every lime you glance round expecting
to see, the cow making in haste for the spot
where her infant is, she's feeding away in
the same old spot, perhaps just going to lie
down for a camp. That tries your temper,
and feeling you’d like to have Old Balaam
to swear for you, you mount Newchum again
and start driving the cow about, anywhere
she likes to go, in hopes she'll take it in
her head to go where the calf is. But she
goes everywhere that the calf isn’t, and after
a while you feel nothing hut a darned fool
for letting yourself be made an ass of by a
mule of a cow. The sun’s getting over a bit
now, too, and it sinks pretty early in the
Great Divide.
You’re sitting in the saddle, pulling at
Newclium’s mane, thinking and looking
worried, when suddenly from off the wind
away on the rim of the undergrowth come
a couple of bellows with a lot of SOS feel-
lug in them. Then a hell of a moo from
the cow, and when you look in her direction
she’s galloping her hardest for the under-
growth, roaring blue murder. Then up from
the gullies and down off the ridges come
other cattle, bellowing their hardest too,
and kicking up a dust as if they were mobil-
ising for a revolution. And while you're
staring and wondering wlmt all the bulla-
baloo is about, a red calf comes bounding
blindly out of tile undergrowth, bellowing
as if tlie devil had bold of it, and behind it
a white calf hustled by a couple of dingoes,
Lord! You don’t want to know any more.
For a furlong or so, vou work overtime in
the saddle, yelling to let the dogs know
you’re coming; but even before Newclium
can cover the distance there’s a cordon of
wild-eyed cattle formed round these calves,
some of ’em with their heads down snorting
and charging at the slinking dingoes. The
yellow curs tuck their bushy tails between
their legs and side-bound them ; and all you
see of them when you arrive on the scene
is the whites of their eyes, leering back
over their shoulders at you as they dis-
appear into the undergrowth.
The commotion doesn’t last long, and
the mob breaks rank and scatters about.
Then you make friends with the red cow
witli the white back, who’s standing looking
grateful and embracing the red calf, which
has also a white back, and is sucking at her
eagerly and wagging his tail. You’re not
sure of its gender at the first glance or two,
for at that age, with the woolly hair cover-
ing them, it’s hard to tell without handling
whether calves are bulls or heifers. But
while you re admiring the pair, and figuring
what the increase will be from them iu five
years or so, the white calf, who’s beeu
wasting time with a couple of old bullocks
that he’s mistaken for cows, waddles over
to your cow, and claiming her for his mother,
starts sucking her on the off side and wagging
his tail like one o’clock.
At first you’re amused, expecting him to
get a kick on the jaw that’ll knock him
silly, but to your surprise, the cow turns
her head to him and starts licking and car
essing him. “Gripes!” you gasp—“it's hers,
too! She's got twins!” Yet there's
something about that calf that makes it
hard for you to believe it’s true —the color
for one thing. Still, there he is, sucking away
and your cow mothering him. You look
through the other cattle for a cow in milk
and a likely mother, but nearly all of them
arc old and dry and shrivelled, and no more
likely to have calves than a lot of Chinamen.
Your doubts about that calf’s parentage
start to grow, and while you want to get
rich as quick as anyone, knowing that lots
got rich and became J.’sP. by their cows
having two calves, you don’t want to risk
going to gaol.
So you sit there in the saddle looking
him over and over, and pondering, when all
in a second you get another brain wave.
Why you didn’t get it sooner is your only
wonder. That calf belongs to the dead cow
lying in the gully! You see nothing in him
now except a sure key to quod! So you slip
between the little beggar and your cow and
“hoosh” him away, and crack the whip at
him and race after him for a hundred yards
or so. till the poor little brute, the life liaif
scared out of him, disappears over the head
of the gully where his dead mother is. Then
you race back and hustle your cow and her
legitimate calf off that flat and up the track
leading round the lonesome mountain, at
intervals looking back in fear the wretched
orphan might be following.
Safe on the top of the first climb you
spell for a moment to let them get their
wind, so as not to knock the calf up too
soon. You know, of course, that he'll knock
up sooner or later somewhere before you
get home, and then you’ll have to carry him
in front of you on the saddle; but .you wan f
him to walk as far as bo can. Then from
out of the stillness and the solitude of the
gully, away below, comes a plaintive cry
from the abandoned motherless thing that
touches you in a soft spot. And when the
cow, more humane than you. and less selfish,
bears it, and lifting her head answers back
and answers back again and again and
objects to going without liim—God! What
a criminal you feel all the rest of the way
home !
And next morning when the family is up
and gathering proudly round the new cow
and calf, the cries of that helpless little
quadruped the Law made you lerjve to
starve out there on the Great Divide still
sound iu your ears, and you wash he had
perished with his mother or you had never
seen him!
STEELE RUDD


v s@
m
’—jL;J
r-
. /
?
.
i
m ■ ■
>■
■>r
s*- & :2*m
:
WESTING HOUSE
Morse Silent Rocker-Joint
CHAIN DRIVES
Ensure minimum wear—
Maximum life and highest
efficiency.
Chains in stock—wheels manu-
factured. to suit requirements.
Write for particulars
and Booklet BM 414.
THE WESTINGHOUSE BRAKE CO.
OF AUSTRALASIA LTD.,
Queensland Agents—HOLMES X CHURCH, Brisbane.
N.Z. Office—93-107 Featherston Street, Wellington.
Victorian Office—99 Queen Street, Melbourne.
Sonth Australian Agents: Messrs. ELDER, S MITH & CO.
, LTD., Adelaide, S.A.
CONCORD WEST, N. S. WALES.
THE MOST EFFICIENT MOWER ON EARTH.
ftTCO
n MOTOR MOWER
AT SPECIAL CUT, PRICES FOR THE
1926 SEASON.
The “ATCO” will make a very strong appeal to those faced with the neces-
sity of keeping in order large areas of turf, i.e., secretaries of cricket, golf, lawn
tennis, and bowling clubs, proprietors of estates of an acre or more, members of
park committees, hotelkeepers, &c.
It is fitted with a 2|-h.p. engine, which develops more than sufficient power
both to propel the machine and operate the cutter, thus requiring only one at-
tendant for guiding purposes. .
The running cost of an “Atco,” thanks to the scientific precision of its con-
struction, is remarkably low. An operator can very easily and completely cut
1000 square yards of turf on a fuel consumption of a quarter-pint of petrol and
oil mixture.
A twin silencer and an extra exhaust pipe (turned sideways to avoid annoy-
ance to operator) ensure extra quiet running of engine.
With the object of making this ALL BRITISH MOWER more popular ou
the Australian market, we are offering them for season 1926 at specially reduced
prices.. EuU storks on baud.
• PRlCES:—i4iii. ' : cutters, .€47/10/-; 16in., £57/10/-; 18in.,
£67/10/-; 22iH., £B2/10/-; 24in., £9B/10/-; 80in.. £llO each.
Printed matter supplied with pleasure on application.
REPRESENTATIVES:
D. AND W. CHANDLER LIMITED,
• 276-204 BRUNSWICK STREET, FITZROY,
And 284-286 FLINDERS LANE, MELBOURNE.
NEW SOUTH WALES REPRESENTATIVES:
WHYSALL AND BROWN,
BOX 16, KING O., SYDNEY.
If any illustration in “THE BULLETIN” takes your fancy, write
to the MANAGER, who will quote you price for the original.
PURE IRISH LINEN
Direct from the Manufacturers!
m
PURE IRISH LINEN
SHEETING
Hard wearing Pure Ir'sh
Linen Sheeting, made from
pure flax yarns. Made
almos'- laundry proof by a
special process of bleaching-
assuring exha long wear.
72 ins. wide 90 ins. wide
per yard per yard
4/3 5/6 ,
BUY your Irish Linen direct from
Robinson & Cleaver, Belfast—
you save the middleman’s profits and
obtain at a moderate price the finest
products of Ireland’s looms.
HUCKABACK TOWELLING
Hard wearing Pure Irish Linen Huckaback
Towelling, Wonderfully strong. Suitable
for Roller, Lavatory or Face Towels
18 ins. wide
per yard
1/-
24 ins. wide
per yard
1/3
HEAVY CREAM DAMASK
Heavy Cream Pure Irish Linen Damask
by the yard. Will become White after a
few washings. Very special value
54 ins. wide
per yard
-
70 ins. wide
per yard
5/!
Write for FREE Catalogue.
Our beautifully llustrated Catalogue of fine Irish Linens,
together xcith Samples. u>ill be sent post free. Ask for No.SSD.
ORDERS OF OVER £lO CARRIAGE PAID BY PARCELS POST
TO DESTINATION, OR BY STEAMER TO PORT OF LANDING.
ROBIN SON &CLEAVER
Irish Linen
Manufacturers
BELFAST
The Home of
Irish Linen
NORTHERN IRELAND.
woman
Hr
I&;
Hi
IS?
■m
knows
She cannot
Look her best
When out of sorts
Beauty is more
Than skin deep
It depends on
A healthy stomach
Good digestion
Pure blood
If these are wrong
Health suffers
So does beauty
BEECHAM’S PILLS
Will put you right
They bring back
The bloom of health.
Worth a Guinea a Box .
Sold in Boxes, l/« and 2/6.
Peter the Black Cat comes back for the New South Wales Fire Brigades.
£6666 ART UNION
For the Hospitals and Ambulances of the State.
(Sanctioned by the Attorney-General.)
3475
Chances
for £1
S!
ViWJ
Fellow Art Unionists! I’ve come back! Three months ago I started off scratch to search
for gold to buy the Prizes in the Firemen’s Art Union for the Hospitals and Ambulances. After
days of travelling I neared the Bay of Dogs, and with one hound I landed in New Guinea, where 1
rocked the cradle for two months. I’m here again, loaded up with prizes for the Lucky Dog that
looks me in the Green Eye. My Slogan is: “A Ticket in the Art Union is worth Six in the Tram.”
Every Pocket has a silver lining. Try your luok, and. turn the lining into gold. Remember me!
Uni Peter the-Luck Eringer! I have spoken.
£0666 IN PRIZES. FIRST PRIZE A SOLID GOLD HELMET VALUED
AT £lOOO.
Five Motoi» Prizes Valued at £2871, and 133 other Prizes Valued at £2795.
TICKETS 1/-, SIN TICKETS FOR 5/-, TWELVE TICKETS FOR 10/-,
T WEN TV-FIVE TICKETS FOR £l.
In addition, every ticket purchased entitles the holder to affswer the following Shakspoarean
Cryptogram, and to participate in a further distribution of £5O in Prizes.
THlS.Helmet that shines OUT like burnished gold in tidies of danger, we FIND was
in use in ’'THE heroic ages, AND it still REMAINS ihe symbol'of .deeds of renown. No
matter what the CAUSE may be, when fires break out, when danger threatens life arid
limb, WE look to the men in the golden helmets to EFFECT a save. Arid so it lias come to
pass THAT all OF us NOW look to the Fire Brigades to help the Hospitals. Send ' your
Shillings along, for they help,you and they help the- community you live in.
Assemble the 12 words printed in Capital Letters and make them read as a quotation from
“Hamlet,” Act 11. - Enclose the answer in an envelope with a shilling for a ticket in the Art Union.
The answers will be placed in a separate barrel, and the drawing, will take place immediately after
the Art Union.
FIRST PRIZE FOR. THE ANSWER TO THE CRYPTOGRAM, £2O ; Second Prize, £5; Five
Consolation Prizes of £1 each; Twenty Consolation Prizes of 10/- each; and Forty Consolation
Prizes of 5/- each.
The Prizes will be awarded according to the way in which the correct answers are drawn out
of the barrel. Every Ticket purchased through the post will carry aft answer. Send on separate
slips as many answers as you take tickets, arid remember —25 tickets for £l, 12 Tickets for 10/-,
6 Tickets for 5/-
For tickets write to the Secretary of the Fire Brigades Art Union, Circular Quay Station, Sydney,
N.S.VV. Write plainly; state whether Mr., Mrs. or Miss.
Drawing takes place at Fire Brigade Headquarters on August 10. Positively no postponement.
Closing date, July 27.
Send Stamped and Addressed Envelopes for Ticket and Result Slip.
' J. J. NEVILLE, Hon Sec.
0°
6)
0
0
e
&
f
s 6
o<
‘ K ' .#*•
#•’ ..•■
#VS


MALTESE
WAX VESTAS
Modebtt BRYANT&MAY
Or
r
%
§
V
I
?®e
jgm
%
IN
dm
>£?
- in* the home
- in. the wind
)
fy
O
&
»„
-5 <?
OH
b
e
'i'S
k. Y
2
Ji
<
r
Dependably!
No matter where you are,
no matter what the weather,
depend on a “Maltese Cross”
Waxie.
It will not fail to strike, and
will hold its adequate flame
for as long as you need it.
You’re bound to approve of
this most dependable of
matches, just as you will
approve of the handy little
box
Made in Australia by Bryant
and May—of course!
u
The best xiou ever
