

a
mr
%
V \
a
RCA Receivers are the product of the
research laboratories that developed
the basic principles of Radio trans-
mission and reception. RCA has intro-
duced practically every important basic
improvement in Radio, including those
in their recent sets that work from
lighting sockets without batteries or
antennas, and the world-famous Radio-
tron Valve. The RCA trade-mark is
the symbol of Radio equipment that
has been tried, tested and perfected.
DO you know the advances in Radio reception
RCA has accomplished in the new five»
valve Model 20 RCA Receiver? “Nothing
can touch it,” everyone who hears this set
enthusiastically declares.
Its reception range is amazing; it brings in stations
hundreds of miles distant with hitherto unknown
clarity and volume. It is wonderfully selective,
cutting out near-by stations sharply when required.
And no other set can equal it for utter fidelity of
reproduction and purity of tone.
Only RCA, with its huge research and manufac-
turing resources, could build such a set. In its
windings are wires finer than a hair. In its work-
ings are adjustments closer than one-thousandth
of an inch. Its parts are matched to the ten-
thousandth of an inch. The circuit it employs is
the most successful ever devised. And yet its
whole amazing range of performance is regulated
by one simple dial control.
Write to our nearest office for further details and
a copy of the booklet entitled “Bigger Value in
Radio,” which describes RCA products.
RCA Radio
tried ... tested ... perfected
MADE BY THE MAKERS OF RADIOTRON
SYDNEY: 93-95 Clarence Street.
MELBOURNE: Cor. Queen and
Little Collins Streets.
ADELAIDE : 25-27 Grenfell Street.
BRISBANE :■ Atcherley 'House,
Queen and Adelaide Streets.
GENERAL
Jluslralicm General
ALIAN
a ELECTRIC
Electric Company, Ltd
NEWCASTLE: 53 King Street.
PERTH: Atkins (W.A.), Ltd.,
894 Hay Street.
TASMANIA: Oliver & Oliver Pty.,
Ltd., Hobart and Launceston.
The Bulletin
Vol. 48.—N0. 2455,
Thursday, March 3, 1927.
Price 6d.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.


New Library Catalogue is now
ready and will be forwarded post free, with full
particulars, on application to
-
■/
DYMOCK’S BOOK ARCADE, LTD
428 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
ILYSAGHT
3
K
AUSTRALIA
Support Australian Industries.
All users of Galvanized Iron should specify
Lysaght’s Australian-made
Galvanized Corrugated Iron.
Manufactured wholly from Australian Raw
Materials, and equal to the best imported.
Visitors to Brisbane! Book up at the
HOTEL CECIL
(FIRST CLASS)
Reasonable Tariff—-Good Position.
_ t)
c Hnchovette <s ggs
Shell and cut in halves as many hard boiled eggs
as required. Remove the yolks and beat them
up with Anchovette, butter, pepper and salt Fill the eggs
and serve. You will find this a delightful dish for light
suppers.
PECKS
M delicious *7 ish c Jdaste
ImTuiidiam Traced
To Neglected Teeth
AutlioriUe* Say Thai Huy Are
BeiWddeir Because o t
Denial Decay
Protect yourself—Use Colgate’s
The radiant, glorious smile may be only a
fleeting possession... or it may be yours for
life. It’s largely up to you.
Colgate’s safeguards your smile ... your good
looks ... your appearance. And even more
important —your health, too. It removes causes
of tooth decay, for its mild, tasteless soap
reaches all the hard-to-get-at places, washing
away the germs and poisons that may shatter
beauty and ruin health.
Colgate’s is the safe, modern dental. cream.
Your dentist and your chemist recommend it.
And theirs is more than mere casual endorse-
ment ; it is unbiased and professional.
Another point in favor of Colgate’s—its taste
is delightful. Even children love to use it
regularly.
removes
ay
t o
rm\
Sh
** ' *
» <*»
:
7
-f
MUSTDIE
1C
Sold Everywhere.
PRICE 1/-
KILLS FLIES
V V
&
•&*
$
The Red Page
Dulce et Decorum Est
One evening back in 1915 I was standing
on the pavement in Aldershot while some
troops passed by on their way to embark
for overseas. Women here and there along
the street had arranged themselves in small,
strangely silent groups. The gathering dusk
of a winter’s evening seemed to suggest itself
as an appropriate setting from which those
men should go out, each to carry with him
some remembrance of home in antithesis to
winter and to dusk. The strains of “Tip- ,
perary” in the far reaches of the
town, and then the group of women nearest
to me separated in the usual hesitating
manner of such dispersals. One woman,
however, still lingered, looking searchingly
into the darkness of the oncoming night,
straining to hear in their last echo the foot-
falls of those men. She was obviously not
the sort who spoke to strangers without pro-
vocation, but she had a confidence to share
with someone that night. “The band may
play them out,” she said in a broken-hearted
voice, “but it cannot play them back again.”
As a purely stage-managed show the war
was an extraordinarily successful one, for
the reason that it offered satisfaction to the
deep-rooted instinct for adventure which lay
quiescent, and without hope of fulfilment, in
the souls of thousands and thousands of
men. To the industrial worker drawn from
an inferno of mechanised routine; to the
clerk, soul-bound in a time-clock world; to
the countless individuals whose individuality
had no chance of being expressed^—to these
the war must have come as a most merciful,
unexpected and glorious deliverance. Those
men, at any rate, went to the war far more
willingly than any war-writer has felt dis-
posed to admit. The band had a good deal
to do with it. It played them out, but I
doubt if many of them really cared whether
it played them back again or not.
For the schoolboy the red tent of the mili-
tary circus had an appeal; but a different
sort of appeal. The schoolboys, too, fol-
lowed the music of the band. It called them
to life—real life, camping out, shooting and
maybe death. But I have always felt that
the schoolboys wanted the bands to play
them back again when it was all over. They
were cheated, horribly cheated. They had
nothing to live down, to escape from, to
expiate. Life itself was for them, in per-
spective, a glorious vision. But now the
brass tablet on the wall of the school chapel
no longer calls for comment: —
Qui ante diem periit
Sed miles, sed pro Patria....
A school generation has since grown up
accustomed to worship beneath the shadow
of hundreds of those memorials; but the
war writer has not yet done justice to the
story of the schoolboys who fought and died
for their country.
There has come to me a book. One of
those private memorial volumes which many
of the public schools of England have com-
piled as a tribute to their alumni who served
in the war. This one is entitled Downside
and the War . Downside is one of the great
Roman Catholic schools of England, and it
was from the Benedictine Monastery at
Downside, to which the school is attached,
that Roger Bede Vaughan came to rule over
the archdiocese of Sydney. In fact, it was
a number of the English Benedictines from
Downside, including Archbishop Folding and
Bishop Ullathorne, who were the Catholic
pioneers in Australia.
Over 500 Downside boys served in the
forces during the war, which is remarkable
for a school whose numbers never exceed
200. Of them 109 were killed, and of these
the average age was 25. Many of their
number died fighting at the age of 19. Of
the 500 more than a fifth gained some honor
or distinction. There was an inequality of
sacrifice about the war which democracy is
slow in recognising. It is, I suppose, com-
mon to all wars; but it seemed, somehow,
more aggravated in the last. The best
material in the country was appallingly
wasted; which leaves one with the uneasy
feeling, that some lives may be more valu-
able than others. A boy from Harrow or
from Winchester may not be any better
than one from the board school at Hounslow
or at Bermondsey, but if one were appointed
arbiter of their fates there is a probability
that one might favor an extension of exist-
ence to the Harrow or Winchester boy at
the expense of the other, if only for the
reason that a finer promise of life is anti-
cipated from those who are brought up in
more fortunate circumstances.
If I take these Downside boys to be typi-
cal of the English public-school system it
may be that I am setting the standard a
little too high. Here is an extract from a
letter about one of these hoys who died of
wounds at the age of 23:
His development at Oxford was a thing to watch
and only those who followed him there from Down-
\side could fully value it. He was rapidly widening
his civele of friends, which he could always do
without forgetting the old ones; and the charm and
power of his character, .always latent in him were
becoming very well known AVe have lost the
perfect Downside boy, for there are few who had
more of the, spirit of -pietas in all its meanings
than he had.... b
It is Balliol’s tribute; it epitomises the high-
est conception of the public-school type •
and though the system which strives to attain
tht)t standard may leave very many far
below it, there is at least assurance that
the weaker links in such a strong chain
are not badly forged. Another extract
from this remarkable record concerns the
death in action of a young man who at the
age of 27 went down fighting—colonel of a
legular battalion, four times mentioned in
despatches, and holder of the D.S.O. and
M.C.
A young man with a very old head upon a Pair
of somewhat slender shoulders.... And so it was
that whilst holding his place as Colonel of one
the old regular battalions he mixed with each
and every one of his officers as a brother in arms
To many of them he was indeed a kind of elder
° , f °f , he had taught them their trade; and
as they had learned from him, so they crew un to
t?^ ow * lim * n the manv places where the
2n(l fia ttalion of the Leinsters f6und fteelf in tijht
corners. And as it was with his officers, so it
was with his men; they believed in him. “He’ll
never ask you to go anywhere he won’t go himself,”
they told me during my time with them at Affringues.
One searches in vain amongst the output
of war-writers for adequate treatment of
the epic story of the sacrifice of the school-
boys. It is, however, only, in such records
as "Downside and the War” that the truth
—far stranger than fiction—is to be found,
I am sorry that a book of this sort, which
is intended only for private circulation,
cannot reach the outer circle who are un-
knowing of, and maybe indifferent to, the
real tragedy that lies behind and beyond
tk'e horror and cruelty of the greatest drama
of our civilisation. The real tragedy of the
war lay in the slaughter of the nation’s best
youth, a youth that would have nobly dis-
charged its duty as trustees of the future
generation', And now it is only left for those
who mourn them, for whom these dead walk
in the haunted garden of the heart, to hope
and to pray that in the paradise of brave
men the knoAvledge may be mercifully with-
held from them that they died in vain.
GERALD DILLON.
The Archibald Prize
Many years ago I went with the late
J. F. Archibald one afternoon into the
Reform Club, where a number of promi-
nent men, long since dead, were chatting over
more or less cheering beverages. It was
the time when Henry Partes, in one of his
liamboyant fits, was emphasising a projected
Pantheon in which should rest the ashes
of Australia’s mighty dead, its walls adorned
with their counterfeit presentments, its
aisles and colonnades made majestic with
their colossal statues, executed in marble
and in bronze. Archibald inveighed causti-
cally against “Parkes’s dead-house” as a
wasteful and ridiculous excess. Barrister
“Jack” Want laughed with a sarcastic guffaw,
and said, “Archibald, you’re jealous of
Parkes. You’d like to endow a dead-house
yourself.” Archibald laughed in his turn,
but liis laugh sounded unreal—a little like
an audible ghost of a thought that he was
striving to hide.
But so it was thenceforth until he died.
He was always brooding over the Pantheon
that he proposed to leave behind him —
something outrivalling Parkes’s national
mortuary, something artistic and enduring.
So when he passed away it was found that
his will for an anmlal sum to be
placed at the disposal of the Trustees of the
N.S.W. National Gallery to furnish a
yearly “Archibald Prize” for the best por-
trait, “preferentially of some man or woman
distinguished in art, letters, science or poli-
tics, painted by any artist resident in Aus-
tralasia, the Trustees to have the right to
exhibit such winning picture in the Gallery
for a space of not more than two months
from the date so fixed.” This proviso made
the Archibald Pantheon fall with a crash,
unless the following curious clause provides,
some time in the remote future, for its glori-
ous reconstruction, to wit: “If it be estab-
lished to the satisfaction of the Trustees
that his bequest is a good charitable bequest,
the testator directed that the period may be
made perpetual.” Now the whole value of
this clause is to be measured by the- adequate
interpretation of the first half of it, and
particularly as to the precise meaning of
the phrase “a good charitable bequest.”
Like an Act of Parliament, the last will
and testament of a person no longer
approachable in the flesh should be trans-
lated into terms of “intention.” And there
was at the back of Archibald’s mind the
“intention” of promoting Australian nation-
hood, of perpetuity in the purpose of his
bequest, of encouragement to Australian
art, and of incentive to untried but talented
Australian artists to ambitious endeavor —
however, he missed the fulfilment of any
single “intention” by the besetting journal-
istic misdemeanor of facile phrasing.
How, to the present date, has his “inten-
tion” reaped a smallest measure of fruition?
One artist has won no fewer than five
prizes in six competitions! This gentleman
treats the terms of Mr. Archibald’s bequest
so cavalierly that he hardly troubles to give
some of his works a title, beyond “A Por-
trait” or “The Portrait of a Lady” or “Silk
and Lace.” Among his five successes there
is, one which might fall under the category
of the “preferential” subjects, inasmuch as
it was the portrait of a Melbourne citizen
who was distinguished as an architect.
Other artist competitors have endeavored to
paint portraits of Australian men and
women possessing some claim to distinction
in art, letters, science or politics. John
Longstaff was actually successful in carry-
ing off the prize (for one year only) with
a portrait of a distinguished visiting actor,
whose distinction was, however, entirely un-
Australian. Mclnnes is an extremely for-
tunate man, who has, within six years, won
£2500, in round figures, from the bequest;
albeit not a single example of his admirable
artistic qualities remains with the nation for
the instruction of students or the delight of
the people. But it must be borne in mind
that neither Mclnnes nor the Trustees of
the National Gallery are to be blamed for
this. The fault is to be found in the slip-
shod phrasing of Archibald’s will.
Bearing in mind the objects which the
testator desired to promote, the results of
Ins bequest are irritatingly disappointing.
There should, undoubtedly, have been a
clause making it impossible for a successful
competitor of one year becoming a prize-
winner, though he might be privileged to be
an exhibitor, for, say, four years succeed-
ing. The proviso anent the subject of the
portrait should have been compulsory, and
not “preferential”: and the successful work
should have remained the property of the
nation. In this manner, a portrait gaflery,
a pictorial Pantheon of men and women, dis-
tinguished in Australian art, letters, science
or politics, would have gradually formed a
Hall of Heroes and Heroines whom Australia
might, in years to come, delight to contem-
plate. and be proud of honoring.
Whilst granting to Mclnnes incompar-
able skill in the art of portraiture,
(Continued on page 3.)


uae
Supreme Value in Shooters’ Requisites
at Anthony Horderns’
YTI7O.
YTI7O. — Remington Slide-action Repeating Rifle, Model 25a, Calibre
.32 W.C.F., is particularly adapted for shooting game of medium size, such
as kangaroo, deer, fox, wolf, wild pig, etc. For larger game, the New Remington
Hi-Speed Smokeless Powder Cartridge, which gives increased velocity, flatter
trajectory, greater mushrooming and killing power, and better accuracy at
ranges up to 200yds. Weight about 5Mb. £7/17/6
Price
mm
YTI67.
YTI67. — Remington Hammerless Repeating Rifle, Model 12a.
Chambered to take, without adjustment, .22 Short, .22 Long and .22 Long
Rifle Cartridges. Magazine holds 15 .22 Short, 12 .22 Long, or 11 .22 Long
Rifle Cartridges. 22in. Round Barrel, Straight Grip, Walnut Stock, fitted
with Vulcanite Butt Plate; weight 4-Jlb. £4/17/6
Price
SBSssaaas^i
YTI79.
YTl79.— Bayard Bolt Action Rifle, Model 1921, .22 Calibre. Short,
or Long Rifle Cartridges, 20-Jin. Barrel, Plain Pistol Grip Stock.
Price
The craftsmanship
of Shooters’ Requi-
sites is correct in
every minute detail
to ensure absolute
accuracy of aim ,
Select your needs
fro m the vast
stocks at Anthony
Horderns’, where
satisfaction is as-
sured ,
Single and D.B.
Guns for Field and
Trap Shooting,
Low and High Power
Rifles for every kind
of Game, Service
and Miniature Target
Rifles—all at the
Lowest Prices.
§
Write for a Copy of
the Illustrated
Shooters’ Guide.
It will be Post Free.
Calico Tents.
Strongly made from reliable materials, all
measurements are less hem and seams.
Calico Flys to Match.
American Duck Tents.
Manufactured from extra heavy duck.
Sizes: 6x 8 ft. 8x 10 ft. 10x12 ft. 12x11 ft.
Quality Walls Walls Walls \\ alls
EX 3flin. 39in. 42in. 48in.
Price . . 48/" 66/- 87/6 112/6
Duck Flys to Match.
Sizes: 11x9 ft. 12x12 ft. 15x15 ft. 18xlSft.
Priced LX 23/9 33/6 52/- 72/6
Dust Covers for Cars.
Dust Covers for Motor-cars, made from
strong unbleached calico. Could also be
used as a fly for tent.
Size: 9x 20 ft. 12 xlB ft. 15 x2O ft.
Quality
JX
AX
DX
28/6
27/-
31/6
42/-
35/-
42/6
57/6
Auto Tents.
Japara Auto-Tents, size 9x9 (walls
3ft. 6in.), with curtain between tent and
car, including four poles, 12 galvanised
tent pegs and ropes attached ready tor
pitching. f.R/S/-
Price, complete
YT6I. —I. Hollis & Sons’ 12 G. Top Lever
D.8.8.L. Gun, Treble Bolted Action on the
Cross Bolt principle, Steel Barrels, Left
Choke Bore, good Steel Rebounding Bar
Locks, well grown Walnut Heart Stock,
Half-Pistol Grip, Snap Pore-end Fastener,
Engine-turned Rib, proved for
Nitro Powders. Price
£ll
YT6I.
i
1
iW s
Handy Oil C®
{nONE®*
■^lftf
“‘anos .jrf
Uiftuio^Eoa^ o *^
YT495
The Ideal Oil for Shooters
YT494. —3 in 1 Oil. Lubricates, Gleans and
Polishes, prevents Rust and Tarnish, nin
Boz. Price ”
YT495. —3 in 1 Oil, 3oz. Handy
Cans. Price
1/3
REPAIRS.
We undertake Repairs of
All Kinds to any make of
Gun, Rifle or Revolver —
and guarantee satisfaction.
YT44I. — The “Teddy” Stainless
Hunting Knife, with its 4Jin. hard-
tempered blade, makes quick work of
underbrush or the toughest job of
ST g : 10/6
YT436. — Hunting Knives, of finest
Sheffield Steel; heavy blade adapted
to Sticking and Skinning. In leather
sheath.
Sizes: sin. 6in. Tin.
Prices: 7/6 8/- 9/-
YT3B6. — Leather Gun Cases,
Grained Cowhide, Lined with Cloth,
Nut Color Sprijng, Heavy Brass
Corners, 32in.
Price .. •
YTI73.
YTI73 —Savage “Sporter” .22 Calibre Repeating
Bolt Action Rifle, Model 1923 a. A Sporting Rifle
with the accuracy of the finest Target Rifle. 231 .
Round Barrel. Full Curve Pistol Grip. Sights are
Rocky Mountain Knife Blade Front and Flat Pop
Elevator Adjustment rear of sturdy construction.
Action obtains half-cock on opening stroke full-
cock on closing stroke. Five-shot detachable box type
magazine. Chambered for .22 Bong Rifle
Cartridge. Weight 61b. £4/12/6
Price
Yt 180
YTIBO. — Bayard .22 Calibre Self-cocking Auto-
matic Ejecting Rifle, chambered for Short or Long
Cartridges, 19in. Barrel, Adjustable Rear Sight,
Sporting Front Sight. 30/-
Price
N & Sons Limi-fed.
G.P.O. Box 2712 C.
BRICKFIELD HILL. SYDNEY.
Telephone: City 9440.


HUDSON
ESSEJ
Are Now 10%
Australian Built
This Adds a Further Great Price Advantage
to These Already Outstanding Values
While Insuring the Same High Quality
in Materials and Manufacture
Now 70 % Australian-built, Hudson and Essex
more than ever represent that leadership of value
which gave their long leadership of sales.
The collaboration of Australian and American
efficiency in building these products changes the
relative values of all automobiles in this market.
The low price you now pay for Hudson or for
Essex by no means expresses the high degree of
performance, reliability and distinction these cars
afford.
F or under this combination of resources, American
and Australian industry has achieved manufac-
turing economies that no other builder for the
Australian market shares. It assures a value
position above all comparison through this pro-
gramme which has required years to organise,
bringing together the material resources, executive
ability and industrial skill of the two continents.
Consider the outstanding position Hudson and
Essex values held under the former regime, before
these exclusive economies multiplied their advan-
tage. And now compare these 7 0° /o Australian-
built cars —the Essex Touring at £239, the Essex
Coach at £299, and the Hudson Touring at £399
—with any car on the market within £5O of their
prices*
To-day you get the finest Hudson-Essex cars in
material, quality and workmanship. In both you
get the advantages in performance, smoothness
and long car life of the famous Super-Six principle
on which more than 900,000 motors have been
built.
Priced the
Lowest in History
Essex Touring - £239
Essex Coach £299
Hudson Touring £399
Any comparison will satisfy you
that such automobile values were
never before offered.
Also on Display—
Essex Sedan, £345.
Hudson Coach, £465.
Hudson Brougham, £525.
Hudson 7-Pass. Sedan, £560.
Prices some points slightly higher.
THE HUDSON MOTOR CAR COMPANY, Detroit, Michigan, U.S.A.
LEADER MOTORS, LTD.,
415 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
H. C. HEATHORN & CO., LTD.,
Hobart and Launceston.
DA LGETY & CO., LTD.,
Phillip Street, Sydney.
MOTORS, LIMITED,
Flinders Street, Adelaide.
NEAL’S MOTORS PTY., LTD.,
Exhibition Street, Melbourne,
AUTOS, LTD.,
Hay Street, Perth-
1166-17?


THIRD CLASS
BY
ORIENT LINE
Attention is drawn to the excellent and well-
ventilated cabin accommodation, the large and
comfortably furnished public rooms and the
spacious decks in the new 20,000-ton steamers.
Through the Line no longer carrying second-
class passengers similar improvements have
been made in the third class of the other
steamers of the fleet.
A further attraction to the route is the CAIRO
EXCURSION, which at a moderate fare
enables third-class passengers to visit the
Pyramids and Cairo, leaving the ship by
special train at Suez and rejoining at Port Said.
2,4, 6 SPRING STREET, SYDNEY.
Branches and Agencies throughout Australia and New Zealand,
and to the Trustees of the Gallery an un-
challengeable measure ofdmne
ir matter for regret that the nve-times
successful competitor did not show some
small courtesy to the “preferential wishes
of a departed benefactor by the selection foi
his yearly portrait of, say, some distil
guished brother of the brush. as
subiects for beautiful portrait-painting, make
a subtle appeal to the public, but in
the realm of art, letters, science or politics
it matters not how fair she be, if she
not also (in the terms of the bequest) Aus-
tralianly “distinguished.” Mclnnes, has, how-
ever, taken the line of least resistance and
alack! nobody can blame him. There is the
bond, and the bond glides “preferentially
over its pound of flesh. Archibald has been
styled an idealist. Had he been more of an
idealist, and less of a romanticist, lie might
have made a will which would have secured
to its execution after his death some meed
of the “intention” that lay at the back ot
his mind. '
There is, however, an aspect (and a conse-
quent tendency) of this annual prize which
cannot be ignored. This is the positive
injury that its winning for successive years
by one person inflicts upon Australian art,
paradoxical though the statement may seem.
Monopoly dulls the edge of industry, and dis-
courages competitive effort. When year
treads on the heel of preceding year only to
mark time to the tune of one individual s
triumphal progress, men of excellent artistry
and ambitious enthusiasm, though perchance
of more circumscribed opportunities and
inferior attainments, fall out of the ranks
of competitors, and the bequest becomes a
stationary sinecure with a predestined bene-
ficiary. Moreover, the reversion of the
ownership of the successful portraits
the winning artist makes of no value the
cumulative tally of his works, either to
the advancement of art and the stimulative
education'of students or to the delight and
edification of ttie people.
FRED. J. BROOMFIELD.
Ellen the Dauntless
Ellen Key died last year and left a blank
in the list of the world’s eminent women.
She differed materially from the women who
some 30 years ago led and dominated the
suffrage movement, for while they fought
for the right to step into any position in the
social, business or professional world, Miss
Key saw that indiscriminate driving into
“men’s occupations” was. not calculated to
exalt the maternal function, which, in her
eyes, was incomparably the greatest thing
wherewith woman could be associated. She
said so in the plainest language, and had the
satisfaction of being regarded as a kind of
renegade. Yet she had always made it clear
that it had been her desire to see woinen
come into their full educational and politi-
cal freedom. The need for perfect freedom
of speech, however, had not dawned upon her
critics of the suffragette cult, and Miss Key
had to pay the penalty.
Of uncommon courage, it was no wonder
she soon found the guns turned against her.
A woman who could boldly lay down the
axiom that marriage is immoral without love
and follow this up with “Love is moral
without marriage” must have had a natural
genius for forging thunderbolts. The mar-
riage ceremony she did not at all deprecate,
but she held strenuously that society to-day
is taking the husk for the kernel; that love
is the most important factor in evolution;
that not legitimacy but the quality of child-
ren must be the standard by which the
morality of a union is measured ; that from
unions of love must come the future race of
supermen, and that any talk to the contrary
is mere sounding brass and tinkling cymbal.
She would give woman all rights—political,
social, economic—simply as an aid to a finer
womanhood. She strenuously refused to
brand the child of the unwed girl, and avowed
herself the champion of the unmarried
mother. The respectable world rose in
uproar. Here was a woman who was not
only trying to shake the pillars of the
temple, but actually trying to uproot the
very pillars of society. She was out against
the home, the Church, Christianity—down
with her! The statement that love could
be moral without marriage lifted the very
gates of Gaza and battered down the walls
of respectability’s Jericho.
Yet she was never a mother herself, and
the wdiole of her passion poured itself out
into the cause that she was advocating.
Nearly all her books are occupied with this
topic—“ The Morality of Women,” “Renais-
sance of Motherhood,” “Love and Marriage,”
“Love and Ethics,” all written after she
was 50. She scorned to palter or dissemble
to please either respectability or society, or
the new and flaming luminaries of the
suffrage movement. She saw clearly that
orthodox marriage law and custom was often
directly opposed to the deeper law of nature,
and she dared to say so. To-day it is being
said a thousand times, with impunity; but
when this Swedish woman of Scottish ances-
try wrote, it rang in the ears of the vast
majority as unmitigated blasphemy. Yet
she lived to see Sweden amend its laws with
regard to marriage, divorce, guardianship
and illegitimacy in such a way that thou-
sands cried, “This is the result of Ellen
Key’s books and her teaching!” Fight was
in the family’s blood. Her great-great grand-
mother was an advocate of women’s rights,
and her ancestry was rich in men who had
distinguished themselves in the history of
Sweden.
It is pleasing to be able to say that in
Ellen Key’s case the martyrdom was not
prolonged to the bitter end, but that in her
declining years her teaching won genuine
appreciation, and that many of her old-time
foes came round to do her honor. “I shall
soon be a shadow,” she said some time before
the. end, “but I see my dream moving with
white feet in the light of dawn.” Her books
found readers the wide world over; the Gov-
ernment of Sweden gave her special recogni-
tion and a handsome endowment in the shape
of a gift of land, and the thinking world at
|arge sent her many a tribute that touched
her deeply. But the radical amendment in
Swedish law with regard to the legal status
of women—unmarried mothers in particular
• —must stand for ever as her real memorial,
while her dauntless courage in opposing not
only the smug morality of her younger days,
but also the bigoted and mistaken views of
the new sect of clamorous emancipated
women, must compel the admiration of
friends and foes alike. The pity of it w r as
that so noble a woman left no children.
P. A.
Australian Composers
“Loc’s”(R.P. 3/2/’27) attempted vindica-
tion of Australian publishers is singularly
unimpressive. Firstly, lie states that local
composers leave home so that “they can be
where the flies are thickest”: in other words,
they ignore the place where success is easy
and go where they have to fight it out with
thousands of the world’s best! It is unfor-
tunate, too, that he refers to our painters
as a parallel case. Any Australian artist
will tell him that prices for local pictures
are infinitely better here than they are in
London or Paris.
“Loc” is beside the point when he speaks
of the necessity for every artist, whatever
the method of expression, to go abroad to
enlarge his vision: our discussion is con-
cerned with the reward offered him on
returning home.
If “Loc” is correct in saying that May Brahe
received recognition before going abroad, I
offer apologies. My information came from
a Sydney publisher, who cheerfully admitted
that lie, in common with other local firms,
refused to touch her compositions. The fact
that the lady carried to London a bundle
of introductions to publishers is more _in
favor of my end of the stick than “Loc’s.”
These gifts constitute a pleasant little way
our publishers have of shifting their respon-
sibilities. If a personal reference can be
forgiven, the writer carried 19 such letters
from our publishers to the principal firms
in London. Most of them were charmingly
enthusiastic in tone, but it made one wonder
whether the enthusiasm couldn’t have found
a more practical outlet for its energy in
the printing presses of Sydney and Mel-
bourne.
Roy Agnew is a somewhat unhappy illus-
tration for “Loc” to choose. Agnew, a bril-
liant musician, languished in unpublished
obscurity till a visiting pianist of standing
recognised his merit and signified his inten-
tion of boosting his compositions both here
and abroad. Then came the stirring in the
camp of the locals to which “Loc” refers.
Naturally there have been a few things
printed here; but my original contention
that Australian publishers have no time for
their country’s composers holds good. Jun-
ker’s “I Was Dreaming” (issued umpteen
years ago) and Murray Gibbs’s “Red Rose-
bud” are two striking examples of what we
can do aided by the necessary advertisement
and wholesale singing of a suitable number.
As to “pops,” if “Loc” wants to see how
easy it is to get one accepted here, let him
try it on the nearest publisher. It’s a
hundred to one he’ll be told that “our
hands are so full with American successes
and musical-comedy numbers that we
couldn’t consider any local stuff yet awhile.”
Film producers are working hard just
now with the object of making a certain pro-
portion of any picture programme consist
of Australian films. Is it very much to
ask that the same sort of thing be made at
least a moral obligation on every musical
programme? Is it such a dreadful thing
that we should he forced to listen to 19
minutes of our own compositions in any
two-hour concert? Criticisms on such a
scheme would probably contain pious plati-
tudes about art knowing no national boun-
daries. But one is not hesitant in announc-
ing that we have some standing as a musi-
cal people, and the possibility is that a
world-artist would not shudder at being
asked to include an Australian number in
each of his programmes. Publication with-
out “boost” is bread without butter. An
earnest attempt by the music publishers and
concert-tour organisers could do a tremen-
dous lot towards helping that unhappy un-
wanted—the Australian composer.
KEITH BARRY.
Post!
A book that lias not the circulation it
deserves is the “Post Office Guide.” Why
it is puzzling to understand; for, apart from
the highly-instructive intelligence on the
workings of this Government department, it
is full of interesting information that “gives
one furiously to think.” For instance, what
genius first inspired the Government of the
Bahamas to prohibit the importation of
loaded dice? Or the Government of British
Guiana to say “No” to ganja, charas or
bhang? It is easy to understand Afghani-
stan’s prohibition against Russian roubles;
it would take a postman all day to hump ten-
pence in that coinage from one end of a
street to the other; but why should Algeria
absolutely bar feeding-bottles? Did the local
Association of Wet Nurses succeed in get-
ting the Algerian Government to grant them
a monopoly?
Czecho-Slovakia’s “dead set” on Franz
Josef Stollen seems hard—“ Under no circum-
stances whatever are any articles made by
Franz Josef Stollen admitted into Czecho-
slovakia”- —but not nearly so hard as the
postal officials of Guadeloupe are on those
that do not obey their regulations. For the
law is, “All articles liable to customs duty
not bearing a green label will be absolutely
confiscated.” Which means that you can
put any color under the sun on your parcel,
but, if it does not happen to be green, that
is the last you will hear of it.
The Reunion is generous in allowing each
citizen to import 221 b. of cigars and 111 b.
of tobacco a year, but Hungary shows
another disposition—“ Under no circum-
stances will letters in the Hebrew or Hebraic
characters he admitted into Hungary.” Korea
will always find that writers have a warm
spot in their hearts for it; its chief offen-
sive is against literature that infringes some
copyright or other author’s right. Someone
must have worked a dead cat off on the
Cuban post officials, for they won’t take dead
animals, unless they are stuffed; and you
can’t dump your rubbish in India, for they
refuse to handle any wastepaper or old news-
papers. Norway won’t admit the humble
spud; and the Leeward Islands turn up their
noses at second-hand clothing that hasn’t
been washed.
The foregoing is all dealt with under the
section headed, “Prohibitions and Special Con-
ditions Relating to Mail (other than par-
cels) for Places Beyond the Commonwealth.”
There are other very intereatia*? sections, not
the least so those dealing with “Prohibited
Imports and Exports and List of Works For-
bidden to be Sent by Post.” Here you are
told, amongst other things, that you must
not export Binghi’s bones, neither may you
import Dipsova, Dipsoeure, Doliclios, Cow-
hage, Cowhitch or Juckpluver, which seems
most aggravating. Books like “Venus dans
le Cloitre” and “Maria Monk” are not
allowed. La Vie Parisienne, that warmed
the hearts of wayward Aussies in France
during the war, is banned, along with 46
other journals. The song, “The Sinn Fein
Volunteers,” and “The Irish Republic,
Why?” are strictly taboo, and “Poland’s
Hangmen and Provokers” is also barred from
Australia.
But by far the most interesting section
is the Index of Forbidden Addresses; for
here are listed no fewer than 540 names, com-
prising Beggars and Bankers, Revolution-
aries and Fakirs. Charlatans and Business
Agents, Lottery Promoters and their touts,
from all the world over. If a writer could
only discover all the events leading up to
the placing of each name on the Index —
yes, and down through the many years after-
wards, when each person was put to all
manner of shifts to get letters —what a
wealth of material he would have for his
stories here! Brisbane and Perth, among
Australian cities, share the doubtful honors
of this section, having the smallest number of
citizens within their boundaries who are not
entitled to receive correspondence; they have
only five each. The Holy City follows next
with six; then a big jump to Melbourne’s
43. Sydney’s respectability is marred by
having 59 addresses to which no letter will
be delivered, but little Tattsmania has easily
the worst record of the family with 210,
holding, too, the record for having the first
name placed on the Index, “Tattersall,” on
31-3-’O2.
C. Y. R.
Novels Worth Reading
This list has been compiled by a committee
of competent judges nominated by the Asso-
ciated Booksellers of Australia and Maori-
land. It is issued to serve as a reliable guide
to new fiction of outstanding merit.
Books of Literary Merit.— Crewe Train, by Rose
Macaulay; Good-bye, Stranger, by Stella Benson; An
American Tragedy, by Theodore Dreiser; King Gos-
hawk and the Birds, by Eimar O’Duffy.
Books for Popular Reading.- —A Woman in Exile,
by H. A. Vachell; The Red Ledger, by Frank L.
Packard; Bar 20 Rides Again, by Clarence E. Mul-
ford; Crewe Train, by Rose Macaulay; Three Farms,
by Cynthia Stoekley; The Flame of Courage, by
George Gibbs; The Smugglers’ Cave, by G. A.
Birmingham ; Daffodil Alley, by Sophie Cole; Work-
ing Bullocks, by Katherine Prichard; The Man They
Hanged, by R. W. Chambers; Marazan, by Nevil
Shute.
A Satchel of Books
Palmerston, by Philip Guedalla (Ernest Benn).
When Mr. Guedalla deserted the Bar for the pursuit
of letters what the law may have lost literature
undoubtedly gained. While still in the thirties he
has established himself as a historian and essayist
of exceptional ability. He has a charming style, a
clear outlook on life, a keen sense for the humorous
side of it, and an incisive wit, qualities which are
manifest in this last political and historical volume.
It is less a formal biography than a genuine, and
very successful, attempt to present a life-like por-
trait of its subject in a setting of contemporary
time.
Mauresqnes, by C. P. Hawkes (¥ e £ku®'G •
Pictures*-., cameos of Moorish, Basque IJ ,
life and scenery, with notes and references that make
the book more than an entertainment.
Tunnel Trench, by Hubert Griffith (Alien and
Unwin). A play in three acts full of the tragedj
of war. Obviously intended for closet reading, ‘
not for the stage, it presents in naked realism th~
agony and horror of trench warfare in graplnc and
moving literary form. A good earnest bit ot worn.
The Almighty Risk, by Robert Stuart Christie
(Cecil Palmer). The reader is introduced to Mr.
Ridley, who deserted art for business and to his
wife Blanche and the affairs of a host of dul ]
uninteresting folk—all to enforce some obscure lesson
on the unwisdom of treating the Devil too affably.
Within the Shadow, by Maurice C. Groom (Brown,
Prior) The author, who is Australian born, has
ventured on the task of criticising his countrymen
and their institutions. Some of his observations will
provoke thought; but he is inclined to be merely
wordy.
King Goshawk and the Birds, by Eimar O’Duffy
(Macmillan). A satire woven into a phantasy.
Goshawk, the wheat king, ruling in his I alaee ot
Manhattan, to please the whim of his wife UuzzeUnda
corners the world’s supply ot songbirds. To secure
the deliverance of the birds from their bondage a
philosopher consults Socrates, and under his guidance
an ancient hero of Hibernia is induced to reassume
mortal shape and return to earth. What happened to
Cuchulain on his great mission makes up the sub-
stance of a tale that for all its rollicking fun and
wild Celtic extravagance has a vein of pungent
satire on the conditions of modern civilisation.
Our Doctors, by Maurice Dupay (Harpers). A love
story translated from the French by Dr. Joseph
Collins, a distinguished neurologist. People, ne
remarks in a preface, “like to hear about doctors
and their doings; they like to read about others
diseases and talk about their own. This novel should
appeal to them.” It certainly should, for it deals
very largely with cancer. A very unusual and strik-
ing, if sometimes repulsive, book.
The Blind Ship, by Jean Barreyre (Fisher Unwin).
A story lifted right out of the plane of ordinary
fiction. It is remarkable not only in the incidents
it relates but in its psychological interest. On
the voyage ot the Sea-slime first one, then others, ot
the crew are seized by a mysterious malady which
leaves them sightless. In the end everyone aboard—
officers as well as crew—becomes totally blind. The
men mutiny, but the captain regains the command
wrested from him. The blind crew grope their
way about the ship. A storm wrecks the masts and
makes tatters of the sails, yet they carry on into the
black unknown. A gripping story.
+
“R.S.E.”: A translation of Dr. Wilhelm Stekel’s
“Frigidity in Woman” has just been published in
America by Boni and Liveright, bearing on its out-
side cover the notice “The sale of this work,
because of its scientific character, is positively
restricted to physicians, lawyers, ministers and edu-
cators.” The work in question is an applica-
tion of psycho-analysis to certain of the female
neuroses by one of Freud’s most prolific pupils.
And science has no need of a publisher s inter-
dict. Stekel’s book has the status of a text-
book, and must be regarded as such. No squeamish
publisher thinks to brand Eden’s “Manual of Mid-
wifery” or Bland-Sutton’s “Diseases of Women’ with
a label “For Doctors Only.” The text-book must be
immune to indecency; and by drawing attention to
the erotic nature of any such text-book—even under
the hypocritical plea of a warning to youth the
publisher is not only unfair to the author, but
places himself among the furtive purveyors of pornog-
raphy by making the Paul Prys more prurient.


h
“REPUBLIC” AGENTS:
NEW SOUTH WALES.
Larkc, Hoskins & Co., Ltd,,
177 to 185 William Street,
Sydney.
VICTORIA.
Preston Motors Pty., Ltd.,
114-122 Franklin Street,
Melbourne.
QUEENSLAND.
Canada Cycle & Motor
Agency (Q’land), Ltd.,
Creek and Adelaide Streets,
Brisbane.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA.
Rasch Motors, Ltd.,
69 Wayinouth Street,
Adelaide.
WESTERN AUSTRALIA.
Republic Truck Sales Co.,
Ltd.,
905 Hay Street, Perth.
NEW ZEALAND.
Inglis Bros. & Co., Ltd.,
Taranaki and Cable Streets,
Wellington.
WT- REPUBLICS DOMINATE
Motor Transportation in Australia
Wonderful chassis endurance and sound
mechanical construction are reasons why
critical buyers place their trust in Republics.
GREATER engine power in all models gives
assurance of GREATER performance. Right
in your own business Republic will prove a
winner— for Republic’s capacity ranges from
1? tons to 5 tons—a type for every haulage
purpose.
Republic is Entirely Trustworthy
/^ervlceX
J&.SPARE 1
L PARTS J
/SERVICE.!
&.SPARE '
/PARTS J
23
i
(i*
V
m
m
SERVICE
SPARE
PARTS
ERVICE
4 SPARE
PARTS
SERVICE
4 SPARE
PARTS
n
Factory Distributors: W. A. CROYVLE, LTD., Crowle House, Castlereagh Street, SYDNEY, N.S.W.


MM
—dlr\£ J tM 4
Today, more than at any
previous time, “more
people ride on Goodyear
Tyres than on any other
make”.
The economic and
manufacturing benefits
of this are daily
transmuted into better
quality for the Goodyear
user.
Thus extra values are
added to a product already
superlatively fine.


MAR
B ale SC Co’s Written
Guarantee for 25 Years.
mm?*,
SMCH
The Beale Factory at
Annandale, N.S.W.
sl- m
Paris.
mu
N.S.W. Conservatotium
of Music.
?A'<J
n
; ■ R
Jmsm
J/rvi’
m,L
Sn
Presbyterian Ladies*
College, Croydon.
Broadcasting.
THE NEW BEALE
1 Every New Beale that goes into use helps to sell its.successors. The more it is played
the greater proof does it give of the superlative quality of the Beale. It lasts far longer
than the 25-years written guarantee. It withstands the extremes of the variable Aus-
tralian climate that play such havoc with most instruments. It is good because it is
built "good.” It stays good because every item in it is the best.
2 In 30 years over 60,000 Beale Pianos have been sold. Here are sixty thousand reasons
reasons, not inducements why you should augment the list of satisfied owners.
3 In 1908, Beale Pianos gained every award at the Franco-British Exhibition. And they’re
even better to-day.
What do experts think of the Beale ? They praise it; they honour it by awards. But
they do more. They buy these instruments ! Consider this list:
4 The N.S.W. State Conservatorium —the" University of Music”— purchased 19 New
Beales. These were bought after close scrutiny and keen comparison by the highest
authorities in the land.
5 Thirty Beales are in use at the Presbyterian Ladies’ Colleges at Pymble, Croydon and
Goulburn—bought on the cold, unemotional advice of experts.
6 The Studios of Farmer’s Broadcasting Station, 2 FC, have been equipped for the past
eighteen months with Beale Pianos, in horizontals, uprights and players.
7 Leading musicians of the State Lindley Evans, Andre Skalski, E. Bennett North,
Frank Hutchens, Henry Penn, G.Vern Barnett—perform on or own New Beales. And—
-8 Her Majesty Queen Mary purchased at Wembley Exhibition a Beale piano for
Buckingham Palace. In a letter to the London representative of Beale 8C Company,
the Queen’s Treasurer stated : "Her Majesty is much pleased with the tone of the in-
strument, and greatly admires the workmanship of the beautiful case.”
What is it gives leadership to the New Beale ? Why has it sold itself to this long line of
critical buyers—unhampered by money considerations and unlimited in extent of choice ?
It is the amazing "singing” tone of the New Beale the rich, liquid, satisfying tone.
Come in and play one of these instruments yourself in complete privacy.
"Let the New Beale sing to you.”
h
Encasements in oak, rosewood, mahogany,
walnut. Special rare timbers, such as syca-
more and satinwood, to order.
Sold on a liberal extended payment plan.
Used pianos taken in part payment.
‘Descriptive literature post free on request.
ĥ
BEALE
Showrooms:
340 George Street, Sydney
COMPANY
I *4 I T E X>
Head Office and Factories:
41-47 Trafalgar St., Annandale
BRANCHES: New South Wales: Bathurst, Lismore, Newcastle, Goulburn. Victoria: Maples in all Melbourne Suburbs. Tasmania: Williams Brosa
Hobart; Maples, Launceston. South Australia: Savery’s Pianos Ltd., Adelaide. Western Australia: Thomson s Ltd. Perth, and Fremantle.
BEALE & COMPANY (Queensland) LTD.
00-92 Queen Street;, Brisbane; Toowoomba, Maryborough, Rockhampton, Mackay, Townsville and Cairns.


4-6 .> •
/<
«s
The Boots
for Horsemen
Sensibly built, for comfort and bard,
everyday wear, Abbey’s Riding Boots
are good-fitting and smart-looking as
well.
The neatly-welted soles are tough
but flexible—the supple uppers are
lined with a softer leather, which gives
a double thickness to the whole boot.
The lining has no seams that drag
when pulling on. The boots are roomy,
with strongly-reinforced toes. Stout
elastic insets at the sides preserve a
close fit.
Order by Post
Abbey Riding Boots are made in tan
willow at 42/- per pair, or in black at
37/6. Because each size is made in
three widths —narrow, medium and
wide —it is easy to ensure a good fit.
ABBEY
Established over 80 years,
313 George Street, and
224 Pitt Street, Sydney.
L9.
8U9
JOHNSTONE*
TUTOR
EASIEST AND BEST.
Price 3/-; posted 3/3.
All Music Sellers, or
VVUriS"
MELBOURNE — SYDNEY — ADELAIDE.
SAXOPHONES
SI
S'
at
Eb alto '
by Kohlert.
Artists’ Model.
Heavily nickel-
plated throughout.
Pearl finger tips.
This instrument is unequalled for richness of tone
and is very easy to play. Fitted with all the
latest improvements, it can be relied upon to give
entire satisfaction.
Complete in Fitted Case
(Freight Free)
Descriptive Catalogue on app! cation.
% Simple
r“
| You can
T la s
£32/10/-
OBTAINABLE FROM ANV MUSIC.DEALER
OR DIRECT FROM
XIX Lit. Collins St.
CMelbourne .
m en orde rirxq pleare mention llvr pa^er.
I
Cl
SHEARING SHEDS
STABLES
FLOORS FORWOOLSHEDS
FENCING DROPPERS
PLANS AND PRICES FREE
GLOBE TIMBER W
FLINDERS ST ADELAIDE, S.A.
Take ENO with you
ANY change of climate is apt to throw the inner
. system out of humour and out of tune. Safe'
guard yourself against these troubles when travelling
always take ENO’s “Fruit Salt" with you. It is
the simplest and most efficacious corrective you can
take. The morning “dash” of ENO in a glass of
water, will keep your whole system in perfect tune
when travelling and at all times.
Ask for the “Handy” size bottle. It was intro'
duced specially for the convenience of travellers.
The Household size (double quantity) is more suit'
able for family use.
Prepared only by
J. C. ENO, Limited.
London, England.
Sales Agents: The British
Harold F. Ritchie & Co.,
Ltd., Sydney, N.S.W.
m
$a\£
Wmm
■ ' '
:
IN
TWO SIZES
AT CHEMISTS
AND STORES.
THE WORDS “FRUIT SALT” AND ENO ARE REGISTERED TRADE MARKS.
CD
Wf
IN mud, sand, clay—Weed Tyre Chains grip and
hold. They transmit every turn of the motor
into actual mileage. They minimize the danger of
skidding, of costly accidents and annoying delays.
Order from your dealer
AMERICAN CHAIN COMPANY, Inc.
New York, N. Y., U. S. A.
Foremost in quality for more than 20 years
821
CHAINS
LĿ
The morning shave is never a
trial if you use a PLUM.
Guaranteed and kept in order for
two years Free.
CRAIG & AITKEN,
654 George Street, Sydney.
i?6
THE P.
Wa
FREE
POST
VARIOVS VERSE
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Noondrowse
Grass and bracken round about me
Soft of blade and cool of frond,
I am gazing on brown she-oaks
And a blue lagoon beyond.
Silent are the woodland singers,
They that should be singing all;
Muted is the shrill cicada;
Muted, too, the thrushes’ call.
Put to sleep is land and water
By the magic hand of noon;
For no ripple stirs the surface
Of the wide and blue lagoon.
From the limbs thrust forth above me
By a bloodwood old and tall,
Stirless, lifeless hang the bright leaves —■
They that should be dancing all.
In the distance, bill up-pointed,-
Head unmoving, still of wing,
Stands a blue crane on a sandspit,
Like a quaintly carven thing.
I, too, feel the noontide’s magic,
Drowse beneath its waving wand,
Feel my hearing and my seeing
To its magic touch respond.
Dim and distant grow the she-oaks,
Distant grows the blue lagoon,
Distant frond and blade and blossom
To my senses all a-swoon.
N.S.W.
RODERIC QUINN.
A Woman’s Comment.
We women are no longer slaves, he says:
We go free-footed on our chosen road,
And fear of undesire no more can goad
Our meek acceptance of his mastering ways.
No jingling servitude of harem-life
Compels our yielding to his shared caress;
We have our claim upon his faithfulness:
L ove — aiK j the Law—allow one mate, one
wife.
But hearkening to the songs he loves to sing,
Telling his prism-heart to those who heed,
I could protest my woman’s point of
view:
Bach port its Moll or Sue or Kate must
bring
To be the gathered rose whose heart may
bleed.
I know, for I have loved a *rover, too.
W.A.
ETHEL DAVIES.
Forgiveness.
“Vengeance is mine!” Ah, yes, could I
believe
That you would suffer as I suffer now,
That in the future life you would receive
What you have earned, most willing would
I bow *
To “Vengeance is thine, O Lord,’ and 1
would live, j;
Secure of vengeance, mouthing “I forgive!”
But I do not believe. My only faith
Was faith in you. You had my sacred
trust;
All my young womanhood, withouten scathe,
My body, heart and mind; and now as
dust
They crumble, crumble, moulder, wither, rot,
Because in you I found that faith was not.
Maybe you loved me for a little while;
And, had I understood the hearts of men,
Loved you the less, or mixed my love with
guile,
I might have held you; but beyond my ken
Is love that plots and schemes; I only gave,
And, giving, fettered for your use —a slave.
And now another woman wears the crown
I could not reach with all the love I bore.
Down life’s mill-race I tumble, down, down,
down,
Nor find, to clutch at, any floating straw
Of future hope. Yet, amidst all my tears,
I’ll keep my love untarnished through the
years.
“If you do not forgive,” the bigots cry,
“You do not love.” So little bigots know
Of love and life! If it should be that I
Should e’er forgive you —truly then so low
Would love have sunk in the essential me
That even of you I should unworthy be.
N.S.W.
R. E.
A Lost Twilight.
We saw tlie tents of the fairies,
You and I,
Over the hill at twilight.
Do you remember that twilight
With its pale, pale sky?
Do you remember the bracken,
The whispering fern,
And the wattles that dreamed of sunset,
Where the phantom flame of the sunset
Seemed yet to burn?
Over the westward ranges
The day was gone;
And down in the hollow of darkness,
Like the eyes of the watching darkness
Far elf-lights shone.
Hand in hand in the shadows
We watched them glow
With never a doubt ’twas the fairies—■
The starlit tents of the fairies
Long ago!
Lost in the long years’ tumult—
Wraiths of a dream —
Do they shine there still in the darkness,
Like the eyes of the watching darkness,
Gleam on gleam?
If we trod that track through the bracken
’Neath the pale, pale sky,
Should we find them now at twilight—
Over the hill at twilight—■
You and I?
QUEENSLAND.
J. HOLLOWAY.


9
mm
m
mm
mm
Warn
mm
v:
■
■
m
m
A
igip
■■■
x
11
ft
m
:
m
I
1 ■
mmmmmsmm
jHHI
s ssn
■ S
i
mm
■ I
M B
awAftw Aarite


The Bulletin
Vol. 48—No. 2455.
March 3, 1927.
EXTENDING THE SAFETY ZONE.
MARS: “What’s the game, Coolidge?”
COOLIDGE: “I had an idea of making more room for the lady, but these chaps object.”


The Bulletin
CHE NATIONAL AUSTRALIAN NEWSPAPER
"Australia for the White Man.”
linted and published by William Macleod, of
M usgrave and McLeod Streets, Mosman, for Ihe
Bulletin Newspaper Co., Ltd., at the Office of the
Co., 214 George Street, Sydney, N.S.W 7 ., Australia.
elbourne Office: 154-162 Flinders Street.
.< indon Office : No. 1 Wardour Street (near Picca-
dilly Circus), W’.l.
PUBLISHED ONCE A WEEK.
TERMS TO SUBSCRIBERS
. (In Advance only).
Posted to any address in Australasia, weekly.
It months, £1 45.; 6 months, 12s. tid.; 3 months, 7s.
To any address Oveuseas: 12 months, £1 10s.; o
months, 15s. 6d.; 3 months, Bs.
Cheques, drafts, etc., which should he crossed, ana
all Business Communications to he addressed to the
Manager.
Special Notice.
All correspondence to he addressed to Box 2521 8.8.,
G.P.0., Sydney.
Insufficiently stamped letters are liable to oe
vcjtiscd *
The contents of this paper are copyright by the
publishers. The right to reproduce or translate any
part of the contents of this number is hereby expressly
reserved by the publishers.
The Editor will carefully read and, where practic-
able, acknowledge in the “Correspondence” column
all contributions submitted, whether in the form of
Political, Social or other Articles, Verse, Short Tales
or Sketches (those dealing with Australian subjects
and not exceeding tiro columns in length, or, say,
3000 words, are specially acceptable), Paragraphs,
Letters or Newspaper Clippings. All communications
will be regarded as strictly confidential.
The Bulletin will return all unsuitable MS. when
the address is specified and stamps are enclosed. But
no MS. will be returned or preserved unless these
conditions are observed. When MS. is forwarded
without stamps for return it will be understood that
the copy is to be destroyed if not acceptable. Per-
sonal applications for return of MS. cannot receive
attention. Further. The Bulletin desires those
sending MS. to distinctly understand that it is not
responsible for the preservation or transmission of MS.
To Amateurs in Black and White.
Anyone supplying to The Bulletin original
humorous or other topical drawings in line or wash,
of sufficient merit and interest and. adapted for
direct reproduction, or any interesting photograph
illustrative of a current event will be paid for same
on acceptance. Any picture containing a good . idea
but unfitted for direct reproduction —i.e., any picture
which has to be re-drawn- —will be paid for as a
suggestion only. The conditions under which such
artistic contributions will be received are those
applying to M.S.
To Travellers Abroad.
“The Bulletin’s” representative in London is
1,. St. C. Grondona, No. 1 Wardour Street
(near Piccadilly Circus). W.l. Copies of
"The Bulletin” can lie obtained from him or
(Jie__l)ookstallintlieNlain_Hall__at_^ustraUa
Also from Messrs. Gordon and Gotch, 75-
79 Farringdon Street, London, E.C.4.; and W. Daw-
son and Sons, Cannon House, Breams Buildings,
London, E.C.1,.; E. T. Hole, Holerth Satire Ser-
vice, J t 6 Fleet Street, London E.C.; “The British
Australian and New Zealander,” 414-1 1 Australia
House, Strand, London, W.C.2; F. Algar, 58 Grace-
church Street, London, E.C.3.
South Africa. —The Central News Agency, Cape-
town, Durban and Johannesburg; Dawson and. Son,
Capetown and Johannesburg ; Havana House, Durban;
Hhodesia News Agency, Salisbury; Benoni News
Agency, Benoni; Handel House, Kimberley; and
others.
Canada. — G. S. Forsyth and Co., 441 Hastings
Street, Vancouver, B.C.
U.S.A. — Chicago: J. Roland Kay Co., 161. East
Erie Street, N. Michigan Boulevarde; Post Office
News Co., S 3 West Monroe Street, Chicago. New
York: Brentano’s, sth Avenue and 27th Street, New
York City; Schultz News Agency, S.E. Corner 6th
Avenue and 42nd Street, New York City; Hotaling’s
News Agency, 203 West 41st Street, New York City.
Washington: Liberty News Co., Seattle, Washington;
Wheatley News Co., 7 04 Market Street, San Francisco;
Wallace, The New Orleans News Man, 105 Royal
Street, New Orleans, La.; The Wide World News Stand,
.7) th South Main Street, Los Angeles, Cal.
Egypt. — Jacques, Horn and Co., the Colonial
Hook and News Stores, Port Said, Egypt.
Hong Kong. —Brewer and Co., 696 Pedder Street,
llong Kong.
China. —Brewer and Co., 31 Nanking Road,
Shanghai, China.
Ceylon.— T. L. De Silva, 89 Chatham Street,
Colombo.
Papua.- —Whitten Bros., Samarai and Port Moresby.
Fiji.— A. Barker, Suva; Harry Gardiner, Metropole
Hairdressing Saloon. Suva.
Overseas Advertising Representatives.
London. — L. St. C. Grondona, No. 1 Wardour
Street (near Piccadilly Circus), W. 1.; Gordon and
Gotch, 75-7 9 Farringdon Street, London, E.C.4.
U.S.A.—J. Roland Kay Co., 161 East Erie Street,
.V. Michigan Boulevarde, Chicago.
Postage Rates.
Single copies of The Bulletin (registered as a
newspaper) :—Commonwealth, New Zealand and Fiji :
lOoz.. Id. United Kingdom: 4oz. to 10oz., lid.; each
additional 40z., Id. All Sea Route: 160 z.. lid.
British Possessions and U.S.A.: 4oz. or part thereof,
Id. Elsewhere, 20z., Id.
THURSDAY, MARCH 3, 1927.
REDUCTION-OF-OUTPUT POLICY
EXTENDED.
By two Judges to one, the two being Deth-
ridge and the inevitable Beeby, the Com-
monwealth Arbitration Court granted a 44-
liour week to the Amalgamated Engineers,
and this is regarded as another step on the
road to a great deal more. Judge Deth-
ridge spoke at length (95 minutes, to be
exact) on many subjects, including the
alleged superior progress of N. S. Wales
industries in 1925-26, the latter half of that
year being under the 44-hour law, as com-
pared with those of Victoria. It is just pos-
sible that his Honor had been looking at the
figures for 1924-25, when the Ma State
certainly showed remarkable progress, but
that wasn’t a 44-hour period. Judge Beeby
also delivered an impassioned address on the
industrial progress of Queensland during
late years, by reason of its Labor-socialist
politics. The figures show, at all events, that
Queensland, in 1919, had 82 less of its
people employed in factories out of each
10,000 than the Commonwealth average
(586 against 672), and 163 less in 1925
(586 factory workers per 10,000 inhabitants
as compared with a Commonwealth average
of 749). Both judgments were singularly
lacking in wide vision and a whole-continent
outlook; but, then, many Arbitration Court
judgments are built that way. The persis-
tent assertion is that Jones, the aggregate
employer, can afford to pay Smith, the aggre-
gate employee, the same wages for less work.
Generally, he can, provided he is able to
put up the price of the commodity he sells,
as the Railway Commissioners do, or if he
can extract a subsidy from the taxpayers,
also as the Railway Commissioners do.
When this raises the cost of living it is
always possible to give Smith more wages
for the same work, and raise the cost of
living a little more, and so on. The drain
on industry is at least partly met by improve-
ments in machinery, and the duty of the
employer in this direction is preached ad
nauseam by advocates, and occasionally by
Judges who hardly know a rock-drill from
a sewing-machine. But the Court says
curtly that the increased cost begins to-
morrow, and the factory-owner can neither
invent nor buy a complete outfit of new
machinery during the night.
* * * *
Meanwhile, evidence accumulates under
the eyes of the Detiiridges and the Beebys
that even if the aggregate employer, 'Jones,
can stand the reduced production, or the
increased cost of the stationary production,
the country as a whole can’t. In fact, the
aggregate Jones isn’t standing the strain
out of his own resources. However much
or little Jones’s factory sends out, the
amount that the country sends out is now so
ludicrously inadequate to meet its external
liabilities that a crisis of some sort impends.
Between July, 1920, and June, 1926. the
Commonwealth’s imports exceeded the ex-
ports, which were supposed to pay for them,
by almost exactly £40,000,000, and in addi-
tion there was the fast-increasifig annual
bill, which the Federal Statistician describes
as the approximate
Obligations Abroad for Interest and Services.
1920- .. £24,300,000
1921- 26,700,000
1922- 26,800,000
1923- 27,000,000
1924- 28,000,000
1925- (about) .. .. 30,000,000
£162,800,000
That unprovided-for bill, added to the unpro-
vided-for item of surplus exports, made
£202,800,000 as the approximate amount
which the Commonwealth should have pro-
duced, but didn’t, either as goods for sale
abroad or as goods to be used locally, so
that there would be less need to buy abroad
—or less excuse, for a great deal of
the importing represents useless and
stupid luxury. To meet this tremendous
shortage, Australia had first a windfall in
the shape of £28,800,000 received per the
British Australian Wool Realisation Asso-
ciation (8.A.W.R.A.) for wool produced and
exported in previous years, but unsold by
reason of the war. A certain amount of
money was brought here by new settlers, but
the total is pure guesswork. There was, it
is officially estimated, some £37,000,000 at
Australia’s credit in London, being money
left over from the days of comparative
sanity, when exports exceeded imports and
the foreign-interest bill wasn’t much more
than half what it is now. Then Australia
borrowed abroad about £140.000,000, to
which must be. added some State loans not
yet published in full, and an overdraft or
two. All these crazy doings had little or
nothing to do with public works, and this
outside money would have been wanted even
if public works didn’t exist. As the
B.A.W.R.A. windfall will not be repeated,
the future looks a trifle worse than the past.
In addition, there were local borrowings
galore.
* * * *
Australia has an ambition for many things,
some of them highly desirable and few of
them objectionable, provided they are paid
for. The list includes;—
Old Age Pensions.
Invalid Pensions.
Widows’ Pensions.
Baby Bonus.
Government homes for “the workers.”
Short working hours.
No piecework lest production be accelerated.
A liberal basic wage for married and unmarried
alike, calculated for man, wife and three children,
aged under 14. Yet the census showed 1,725,004
children under 14, while the number of males over
21 (representing the “man” in the family calcula-
tion) was 1,599,424, making an average of less than
two children per theoretical family.
Child endowment as an alternative.
A steady flow of public works to provide employ-
ment. Yet the present stock of works, built on no
coherent system, falls short by £10,000,000 per
annum (State works alone) of paying the interest
bill. The drawback of Australia is that there are
so few things in it which don’t carry an Old Man
of the Sea in the shape of a debt covering their
full value, and too often he is a foreign or absentee
Old Man who wants to collect his interest in gold,
and spend it in a far country.
Yet, despite all the vaunting of its great
natural resources, Australia, by all the evi-
dence, is a rather poor country, as well as
being more than a trifle mad. It is sup-
posed, for instance, to be a land of gold
and it has certainly had two gold booms
a good distance apart. But its record in
recent years compares with that of some lead-
ing competitors in this fashion:—
Gold Output.
„ ~ ... 1903. 1924.
South Africa .. .. £12,628,000 £44,534,000
United States .. .. 15,122,000 11,378,000
nada 3,877,000 7,095,000
2,197,000 3,157,000
Australia .. .. 16,294,000 3,143!000
„ ass , la . Hard to find 3,038,502
Rhodesia . . . . 828,000 2,920,000
The Commonwealth’s gold yield is now down
to an annual £2,000,000. The entire mineral
production in a year is less than one-eleventh
that of (Treat Britain, when measured by
value; wherefore Great Britain produces
nearly twice as much per inhabitant and not
far short of 400 times as much per square
mile. Australia’s droughts, its vast stretches
of poor soil, its scarcity in the matter of
navigable rivers and the apparent absence
of oil deposits are matters that can’t be con-
cealed. The country has respectable manu-
facturing prospects, as plenty others have,
but on the whole it calls for much hard
work, and it has an immensity of leeway
to make up. So when excited legal counsel
describe it to learned or moderately erudite
gentlemen on tlie Bench as a land where
everybody is obviously entitled to tlie maxi-
mum of wages, leisure and good living with
possibly something over, it is a pity that the
Bench should wear such a credulous aspect,
and start talking tripe through its hat.
ANOTHER PROPOSAL FROM
WASHINGTON.
In November, 1921, with the shadow of four
years of human martyrdom darkening half
the world, several important gentlemen met
at Washington in response to an invitation
from the executive head of the United States,
who wanted them to sit down and talk about
ways of building the dove of peace a nest, so
that the bird would love mankind and make
its home with them. The Americans at that
time, excited by the belief that they had
turned the scales in a tremendous conflict,
were a nation divided. There were those who
thought with Woodrow Wilson that the
guerdon of the young men who had perished
ought to be a well-cemented agreement of the
nations to make war no more, and there
were others who had visions of the eagle
posing as a symbol of world-empire. America
was committed to a naval programme that
would make its fleet the most powerful in
the world, and financier's approved that pro-
gramme on the ground that it would be use-
ful for debt-collecting purposes, if for nothing-
more. But Wilson, though politically
defeated, because he was more of a prophet
than a politician, had appealed to the brain
as well as to the heart of his nation. For
his dream of a Parliament of Nations, swayed
only by sweet reason and oblivious to the
cross-currents of domestic politics, there was
not much enthusiasm. But the idea of a
round-table talk at which arrangements could
be made to limit the expenditure on warlike
preparations—at a time when all the rest of
the world was impoverished and America
richer than ever —struck the business sense
of every intelligent American as sound. So
President Harding, after his advisers had
ascertained the feeling abroad, made his
gesture. The result was not all that he had
designed, but it was immeasurably better
than pessimists had expected.
* * * *
Charles Evans Hughes, who handled
the conference, was in the happy position of
knowing that no matter how far he went he
couldn’t seriously endanger the safety of his
native land, while every step would help its
material prosperity by making it possible
to reduce taxation. He opened by voicing
the doubt in the League of Nations that was
felt by every man who listened to him. “We
can no longer content ourselves,” he said,
“with investigations, with reports, with the
circumlocution of inquiry. The world wants
a practical programme which shall at
once be put into execution.” Everyone
agreed. Everyone wanted to find some way
in which the Treasury at home could be
spared some of the burden of armaments. The
conference got to an agreement on the most
expensive item—battleships, and half-way into
the second most expensive—cruisers, but there
it stuck. Balfour, on behalf of Britain, was
willing to go to almost any length in the
matter of naval reductions so long as sub-
marines were barred. But this couldn’t be
done, so Balfour moodily remarked that it
was no use discussing the limitation of anti-
submarine craft. In regard to land and air
forces nobody save Hughes had any latitude,
and those subjects were dropped. But a
huge chunk was taken off the expenditure
of the five nations concerned by an agree-
ment to limit capital-ship expenditure to
replacements for 10 years, Britain and
America were to be allowed to build 525,000
tons each; Japan, 315,000 tons; France and
Italy, 175,000 tons each. Britain was
authorised to retain the apple of its naval
eye, the Hood, and Japan’s plea for the
Mutsu, its post-Jutland masterpiece, was also
sustained. And it was agreed that no ship
of more than 35,000 tons—the Hood dis-
places 41,200 tons —should be built, and that
no gun of a wider calibre than 16 inches
should be installed. As to cruisers, any
nation might build as many as it thought it
needed, but they must not displace more than
10.000 tons nor carry guns bigger than Bin.
calibre. In addition, the Pacific was par-
celled out into areas of dominance, and there
was an undertaking about fortifications, to-
gether with some benevolent generalities
relative to China.
* * » *
Now Calvin Coolidge, who has his way
to make as a President and who believes in
the safety of well-trodden paths, is seeking
to embroider the record of his predecessor by
taking up the Washington Conference at the
place where Hughes dropped it. He invites
the Four Powers to send delegates to
the coming Disarmament Conference at
Geneva instructed concerning an American
proposal that the building of cruisers, sub-
marines and destroyers ought to be regulated.
But the atmosphere has altered since 1921,
and the problems the Washington Conference
failed to agree about are as knotty to-day as
they were then, if not more so. Britain puts
up the plea that British cruisers and the like
are for defence, not defiance, and that no other-
nation has such long sea-lanes to defend.
France, always logical, insists that if there
is to be further disarmament the whole sub-
ject ought to be considered, not one end of it.
Italy and Japan call Heaven to witness that
their preparations menace no nation, and ask
more or less plaintively why they should be
picked on as fit subjects for sumptuary laws
in the matter of the smaller naval craft. And
all four Powers feel, though they are too
polite to mention it, that America stands to
gain, whatever it proposes. The less the erst-
while Allies snend on armaments the more
speedy will be their repayments of debt to the
Yankees. America need not worry about
defence. It was invaded by the armies of
the most powerful nation in the world when
it had a tenth of its present population arid
no navy worth the name, and it proved itself
impregnable. There is no other nation on
earth so fortunately situated. The U.S.A.
has had two opportunist victories in world-
politics ; but, however pure its intentions, it
is unlikely to gain another in 1927. Perhaps
it will never gain another until it joins the
League which was fathered by Woodrow
Wilson and rejected by the Senate, and for-
mally subscribes to the principle, already
accepted by Britain, France. Italy and Japan,
that “the maintenance of peace requires the
reduction of national armaments to the lowest
point consistent with national safety and the
enforcement by common action of inter-
national obligations.”
TRAVELLING IN A TIME MACHINE.
“Hangchow, the gateway to Shanghai, has fallen
to the Cantonese.”— News . item.
It is quite possible for the dweller in
Shanghai to own a house one half of which
is in the twentieth century and the other half
in the fourteenth. Hence he may have his
dinner cooked about a.d. 1350 and served
hot in 1927. The builder of one such house
was unable to negotiate the removal of all
the family grave-mounds resident on the sec-
tion, so he had to erect his front fence with
a nick in it, and in the alcove repose the
bones of the ancestor of one of the original
owners of his land. A short walk from his
back gate is a wilderness of broken coffins
and bits of human skeletons which the dogs,
sometimes almost as hungry as their masters,
have disinterred. They are the skeletons of
pauper children buried shallowly by public
subscription.
The fourteenth century laps the twentieth
all around European Shanghai, and in many
places overflows, so that the boundary be-
tween the two is indistinguishable except
when the possibility of the older epoch over-
whelming the younger necessitates the set-
ting up of barbed-wire entanglements and
machine-gun nests. It is quite a simple
matter for a European resident to take a
week-end excursion to the fourteenth cen-
tury. All he has to do is to pack a suit-
case and hail an electric tram. The tram
takes him through the International Settle-
ment and the French Concession, and lands
him without perceptible shock in the Chinese
city. But the Chinese city is only quasi-
fourteenth century. He may meet a motor-
lorry or an asthmatic Ford, which will spoil
the picture. So he must take a rickshaw
to the Shanghai-Hangchow railway. The
Shangliai-Hangcliow railway, says a curious
mixture of the fourteenth and twentieth cen-
turies, reading Huxley’s essays through
liorn-rimmed spectacles filled with plain
glass, is Cliinese-built and Chinese-owned.
The statement does more credit to the
curious mixture’s patriotism, than to the
accuracy of his information, since a
German engine is pulling the train,
and the first engineer of the line was
a Scotch M.I.C.E. Still, it is. the first
railway in China into which the indigenous
capitalist ventured to put his money, and in
some ways its native owners handle their
own people better than the foreigner does. For
instance, one of the line’s first achievements
was to run over a Chinese girl, removing one
of her crumpled feet. A foreign railway
management would have got legal advice and
paid the proper compensation to the parents,
for them to squander. The Chinese manage-
ment sent a representative incog, and bought
the remaining portion of the girl. A child
with only one crumpled foot, and a female
at that, is of small value in the desperate
Chinese struggle for existence, so they got
her for a few string of cash and gave her
a humble position on their, staff for life.
The Chinese-owned train seems to have
been borrowed by the local tupan. Coolie
soldiers swarm all over it, even in the sec-
tions sacred to the white man and. the not-
so-sacred native capitalist. The train rushes
without immoderate haste through the usual
interminable cemetery. Like Hamlet, the
present armies in China are fighting in a
graveyard, and adding with their military
buriais to the problem of civilian existence.
An endless succession of those pale-blue clad
civilians is scratching the soil around the
grave-mounds, and ploughmen, standing
behind bullock-drawn pieces of pointed
wood, are dodging the tombs of their
mothers-in-law, their great-aunts and their
great-great-grandfathers in a fraiitic endea-
vor to cultivate their fields. Like fantastic
Oriental reminiscences of northern Italy,
walled cities, containing anything up to a
quarter of a million people, pass across the
skyline, their pagodas jazzing solemnly with
modern factory chimneys. Almost under the
carriage-wheels peasants are planting gram,
and in one spot a skinny beldame,. like a
heap of discarded tailor’s rubbish, is har-
vesting the blades of rice that have found
foothold on the top of a concrete pillar.
There are the usual camUs, crowded with
replicas of Drake’s Golden Hind. The
canals are barred by the fourteenth-century
equivalent of locks, barriers of mud, to the
tops of which barges and houseboats are
being windlassed, and there left to their
own devices ; they toboggan down in a shower
of mud and finish in the water with a mighty
splash. Before it reaches Hangchow the tram
has passed more towns than it would home-
steads in Australia, for the province has
almost recovered from the Taiping crusaders
who, in 18G2, reduced the capital to .ashes
and massacred so many of the inhabitants
that those preferring suicide could not find
sufficient water in the canals to drown them-
selves, so lay down in the shallow waters of
the lake within the city. To-day the pro-
vince supports, mainly in chronic want, oot
persons to the square mile, and the figure
is believed to be increasing. . ,
Night has fallen before the excursionist
into the past reaches the famous city ft
Hangchow. Marco Polo visited it about 1-m
and reported that it contained 10,000 bridges
and 3000 public baths, and that along the
principal thoroughfare nine carts could drne
abreast. To-day the highway of Mabco
Polo dribbles like the floor of a six-foot
sewer between the high blank walls which
are the chief feature of every Chinese city,
and if the 3000 baths exist the coolies who
carry the excursionist in a fourteenth-cen-
tury sedan-chair have not heard of them.
But if medievalism stands for squalor
and physical discomfort it also stands tor
beauty, charm and philosophic ease. 1 1
beauty of Hangchow is to be found on tie
West Lake, with its gem-like islands, whose
temples are blackened annually with the
reverence of 150,000 pilgrims from all pan'
of the Republic; in its well-tended tom y
of ancient heroes and its 11-mile city wm
which 540,000 stonemasons and .41 millm' 1
coolies are alleged to have built in 90 days
Still, even in Hangchow the twentieth cen-
tury is not to be denied.. On. the v; i'
parade-ground troops are being drilled on w
latest Prussian model by a Japanese, low-
graph wires are festooned about the ram-
bling streets, aggressive red-brick building s


house native schools of medicine hospitals
and the like, and bits of England ami
America are deposited about the city in the
shape of missions. Here delicately-nurtured
girls, bred in some sanitary garden suburb,
are striving with an equipment ot theo-
logical dogmas to instil law and order
into the Chinese chaos, with its war lords
trampling to and fro, its Russian advisers
and its German poison-gas suppliers, its over-
population, its modern factory problems and
its ancient lack of drains, its thirst for the
new and its clinging to the old, and its
voutk turning with impatience from the
translated Bible to Dakwin and Ruther-
ford in the original. The courage of the
devoted ladies, in attempting to bring the
fourteenth and the twentieth centuries to-
gether without a shock, is matched only by
their optimism.
FENG-SHUI.
PLAIN ENGLISH.
The Commonwealth Shipping Freak.
An early crisis is expected in the affairs of
that monstrous bungle the Commonwealth
Shipping Line, and it is hoped that it will
be fatal. The line once numbered 53, hut it is
now described as “a compact fleet of seven
vessels.” There is no more merit in a com-
pact fleet of seven vessels than in a compact
town of seven houses or a compact salary
of 7s. a week, or even in a compact
house of one apartment. An attempt has
been made to improve the look of things by
writing off about ten million pounds from
the cost of the show, and charging interest
in the balance-sheet on a little over four
millions instead of on 14; but putting the
rest of the interest into some other account
iloesn’t alter the fact that the community is
paying it just the same. A belated balance-
sheet in the “Official Year Book” gives
figures to March 31, 1925, and says that
the loss for the year (one year only)
was £588,782 19s. 2d. The real loss
was probably over £1,000,000, but the
writing-down device disguised the other
part of it. The Commonwealth “Quarterly
Statistics” should give another year’s figures,
but they avoid the subject as they would
avoid giving details of the place where the
mangled remains were concealed. The loss
on the freak ships is about the only matter
which can’t be traced in the 31 closely-printed
pages of “Disbursements” in the quarterly
pamphlet for September last, but “Miscel-
laneous” occurs 15 times, and that probably
explains. But the fleet appears in the
Federal revenue accounts after this extra-
ordinary fashion :
Commonwealth Government
Steamers. Surplus Earnings.
1921-22 1922-23 1923-24. 1924-25. 1925-26
The 'wretched undertaking has been on the
revenue list for nine years, and during six
of these, including the last five, it lias earned
nothing but two dots per annum. “Detained
Enemy Vessels,” which cost nothing, have
a line to themselves, and were a big source
of income in 1917-18 and 1918-19. They
yielded a small profit in two subsequent
years. After that their returns consisted
likewise of dots. But the Commonwealth
Slipping Line proper never had a gleam of
hick except in 1917-18 and 1918-19, when
it was doing war service at war rates. There
is no visible hope that the “compact” little
fleet, which isn’t big enough to keep up a
really perceptible service to one overseas
port (London), will ever grow any bigger.
To get new ships for, say, £1,000,000 each,
and w T rite off £600,000 as lost in order to
make the garbled balance-sheet look better,
and then to lose a fortune per annum per
ship, would be almost beyond even a Theo-
dore Cabinet. The influence of a petty
squadron, with no visible prospect of expan-
sion, in keeping down freight rates can’t
amount to much; yet a board of three expen-
sive gentlemen, including a rear-admiral, is
employed in the management. Altogether
the prospect is gloomy, and the five million
pounds-odd of debentures, which the board
has issued to its employer, the Common-
wealth, on the security of the Common-
wealth’s own property, would prove a depre-
ciated security if put on the market.
The craze to own shins, when the Federal
Government might have had a South-to-
North railway for the money, passes compre-
hension. And with all its bumptious marine'
enterprise the Bruce-Page Government fails
to keep its one tub on the N. Territory coast
running sufficiently to prevent settlers being
starved out. When the tub attempts to start
some petty mutineer does a hold-up and tells
the despised Ministry to go to perdition, and
it expects to have to go at any moment.
#
What Protection Can Do.
Australia suffers from natural defects
which are stressed from time to time in
Foreign-trade arguments; but almost all of
them can be cured by an adequate tariff.
Further evidence of this is contained in the
report that a combination of Scotch whisky
distillers intends to open distilleries in
Victoria. It seems that “an analysis of the
water to be used has shown that it is pai’-
ticularly suitable for distilling purposes.”
This is remarkable, for one of the old argu-
ments against Australian whisky was that
only from the streams of Scotland and
Ireland could you get the exact quality of
fluid necessary for making the ideal intoxi-
cant. Australia has had a distilling indus-
try for half a century. For many years the
prejudice against Australian whisky was
such that there was more profit in selling
it to “the trade,” by which it was blended
with imported whiskies, than in putting it
before the public as an Australian product.
Large quantities were actually bought for
Mending purposes by British buyers, who
doubtless sent portion of their purchases
back to Australia as “Scotch.” When it was
reasonably certain that the industry would
be given a lair measure of Protection,
Australian distillers set out to establish a
local trade in their own name. They have
succeeded so well, in spite of the irrational
prejudice with which every Australian-made
article has to contend, that British distillers
are now rushing in to compete with them on
the snot. Instead of its being “impossible
to make whisky in Australia” all the whisky
Australia wants may be made within its own
boundaries; and imports are worth £1,500,000
p.a. There should be a good lesson here-
abouts for people who still listen gullibly to
tales about Australia’s incapacity to make
this or that. The incapacity is generally
removable by Protective duties.
How Bush-fires Originate.
“Bill O’C.” : Controversy as to the cause of
bush-fires only serves to show liow great is
the area of inflammable country in Australia
and how common the tendency to assume
erroneously that the conditions and respon-
sible agents are the same everywhere. For
instance, one maintains that lightning
accounts for 50 p.c. of the blazes. He evi-
dently had in his purview Queensland or
northern N. S. Wales, where aerial pyro-
technics are all too frequent; whereas in
South Aus. and Westralia for long periods
they don’t get enough lightning to charge an
electric torch. On the western plains of
N. S. Wales and the northern ones of South
Aus., where tinder-dry grass and ripe wheat
crops flank the long stretches of railway
lines, it is safe to attribute 60 p.c. of the
fires to engine sparks and clinkers, to say
nothing of the cigar and cigarette stumps
of passengers. On the other hand, in hilly
districts where roads are plentiful and rail-
ways few, the careless camper and smoker
can be given the same debit. As for the
exhausts of tractors, there are districts fre-
quently swept by fire which one would have
to comb carefully to find a tractor of any
description. One fact observed, which is
worth columns of speculation, is that the
majority of fires start at roadsides or rail-
way lines. Here is an attempt to inquest tin-
causes, drawn from pretty wide experience
and applicable generally, as an average:—
p.c.
Railway sparks and clinkers, etc. ..•• '25
Careless campers and picnickers .. .. 20
Do. smokers ....•• ••. . 20
Do. householders burning refuse ... .10
Children playing with matches or fire .. 5
Motors, tractors and sawmills ..• • 5
Settlers burning timber or stubble ... . 5
Spontaneous combustion of phosphorus baits 2
Stock treading on and mice gnawing matches 1
Mice and mortgages gnawing crop-insurance
policies, and plain incendiarism .. 5
Lightning ....■ ••• • • 1.999
Sun’s rays on broken glass 5
Bullockies addressing teams
Politicians expressing opinions of one { 00l
another f
Angry prophets calling down fire from
Heaven J
Note that the glass-bottle theory is negligible.
I liaye seen it tested without result oil a
blazing day with very inflammable stuff and
glass in all positions. Of course, it can be
done by converging the rays through a lens,
but one might go on. smashing bottles like
an enraged prohibitionist without making the
chance natural lens required, which chance
would also have to set in the right position.
♦
Uncle and His Greaser Neighbors.
United States imperialism or jingoism is
getting a move on. Uncle owns the Panama
Canal and 527 square miles of what used
to be Panama alongside. He is reported to
be fixing up a treaty for Panama to sign,
by which it will automatically come into
any war in which he may be engaged (come
in on his side, of course), and providing
that if the little republic gets into war, either
that way or any other way, Uncle will have
full command of its forces. It doesn’t appear
that the speck of a State, if called on, can
do other than sign and become an appanage
of the U.S., though it will have to quit the
League of Nations to do it. Remarkable
activity is also reported from Nicaragua,
the largest State of Central America, with
a frontage to both oceans. In 1855-57,
William Walker, a U.S. filibuster, con-
trived to hold Nicaragua, with a miscel-
laneous Yankee troop, described himself as
President, and re-established slavery, but he
was thrown out before lie had a chance to
hand the place over to his mother country.
He made a later attempt on Honduras, where
his ghost still walks. Uncle has secured
some islands off the Nicaraguan coast (99
years’ lease, in the Chinese style), and a
naval base on the mainland, and for 11
years he has had a concession to build a
canal across from the Atlantic to the Pacific.
There is an idea that work is going to be
started; anyhow, troops have been landed.
A Nicaraguan presidential election is
approaching, and the U.S. is taking
a warm interest in the prospects of
one Diaz, who reckons himself the
existing President because of a revolu-
tion which he manipulated last year. It
is significant of the trend of opinion that
Diaz is reported to have offered the U.S. his
whole republic as a gift, disguised at first
under the name of a protectorate. _ One
way and another the end of the five pictur-
esque little Central American republics seem-
ingly approaches. And the half of old Mex-
ico which hasn’t already been “taken over - ’
by the people at Washington may go the
way of the rest. President Calles is
intensely disliked by his big neighbor. lor
a time he was represented in cablegrams
which came via America, as distinct from
those via London, as a man of sin who
sought to abolish the Church and to knock
the skull of the hierarchy against a stump.
That view of the case gradually died out
for lack of the fuel of corroboration. But
the fact remains that Calles, a . formally-
elected President, is calling in question the
oil concessions obtained by foreigners from
some of liis predecessors who were not
elected but merely lumped the claim. That
sort of thing is calculated to bring him ill-
luck.
O
Power Alcohol.
Henry Ford was once asked if he was not
afraid of what might happen to the motor
industry when petrol supplies are exhausted.
“No. not at all,” he said ; “there will never be
any lack of motor fuel so long as alcohol can be
distilled from vegetables.” The manufacture
of power alcohol, is not likely to make, very
great headway, as an industry in itself, until
petrol becomes dearer. As a side-line to
other industries,, however, it is making head-
way. Particularly is this the case in connec-
tion with sugar-refining, for the alcohol con-
tent of molasses is very high. The other day
the first distillery of tin- kind in Australia
was opened at Sarina IQ.). The Sarina
plant has a capacity, working at full blast, of
about a million gallons of power alcohol a
year. This is approximately one-seventh of
the total amount of the spirit that could be
extracted were all the sugar by-products ot
Australian mills thus treated. It represents
approxiately one per cent, of. Australia s
annual consumption of motor spirit, supplies
of which are costing the Commonwealth close
on £10,000,000 a year. The Queensland
experiment has the backing of the British
Distilleries Co. and the International Sugar
and Alcohol Co. It is on the advice of one
of the experts of the last-named concern, A.
V. Board, who recently visited Queensland
and investigated conditions, that the plant
has been established. The enterprise may mark
the beginning of an important industry ; on the
other hand it may be found that spirit can
be more cheaply distilled from brown or
black coals, a matter that has been the sub-
ject of a great deal of research in recent
years. Should either branch of distillation
develop as is hoped, Australia will be able to
materially reduce its bill for imports, especially
if future orders for the comparatively simple
distilling machinery are given to Australian
firms. The Sarina plant came in part from
France, in part from America, and in part
from Dorman, Long and Co.’s Sydney works.
There is at least one engineering firm in
Australia, Walkers, Ltd., of Maryborough
(Q.). already specialising in that class of
machinery.
A Compulsory Agriculture and Sheep-
killing' Bill.
It was once recorded in the diary of a hypo-
thetical king, whose ways were like those
of the present N. S. Wales Government, that
life was a hurried business. On a typical
day he confiscated a few titles and estates
before breakfast, and subsequent to that
meal he made a redistribution of them. After-
wards he repealed all the laws, banished a
few people whose names were selected from
the directory, and executed a heretic who
was out on bail. The Lang Ministry, with
its relentless activity in muddled deeds, also
lets no day pass without doing something,
or, at least, making a fuss with somebody.
Its latest venture aims partly at the cutting
up of large estates, or, at least, of pastoral
properties worth £IO.OOI or over, . but more
at the obliteration of sheep and their replace-
ment by wheat and cows. The first idea is
to appoint the inevitable board, after which
there is to be a census of country freeholds
said to be worth £IO,OOO and upwards, and
the excess above £IO,OOO is to be earmarked.
The Western Division is excepted, but then
less than 3 per cent, of that vast area is
freehold, and the whole place sometimes pro-
duces less than 1000 bushels of wheat. Other
exceptions include areas held for a number
of charitable and public purposes, very poor
land, also land which is for sale on reason-
able terms without finding a purchaser, and
soil belonging to anybody who can negotiate
a certificate from.the board saying that it is
undesirable to disturb him. In addition to
these and other exceptions, it is set forth
that the property may be and may remain
any size it likes, provided it is used for the
production of milk, butter and cheese, or for
the raising of vegetation, which in N. S.
Wales is practically synonymous with wheat
instead of wool and mutton. If the land-
holder doesn’t slay his jumbucks and pro-
ceed to raise butter and wheat for a foreign
market, it is assumed that the small men
who partly take liis place will go in for
wheat or mixed farming, as small men mostly
do. It doesn’t appear that anything is in-
tended in the way of releasing the allegedly
“landlocked” towns and giving them a chance
to grow into prosperous industrial centres,
but then the policy of all N. S. Wales Gov-
ernments is dead against the cultivation of
prosperous industrial centres outside _ the
county of Cumberland to give the agricul-
turist something in the way of a local
market.
If the measure becomes law it will possibly
lead, unless it misses fire in some way, to
an increase in the number of small men on
the land, especially those small enough to
avoid the use of hired labor —a thing which
everybody tries to avoid under existing con-
ditions —and often too small to afford up-to-
date appliances. Under the insane policy of
One State One Port, wheat for export lias a
long way to go before it fairly starts for its
destination. The average haul by rail is
230 miles, and freights have a tendency to
rise, though as grain is still carried at a loss
they may have to rise more. The average
sea freight to Europe is higher than that
from other big supplying countries, and the
average yield isn’t. Just now the cow men
say that they are working at a loss, and the
wheat men say that many of them are
making very small profits. Still, if sufficient
big landholders fail to negotiate the exemp-
tion certificate, and the tax on their surplus
land is on the scale suggested, the little agri-
culturists may grow more numerous for a
time. Of late years they have been diminish-
ing considerably, as machinery took the place
of human toil, and the partial vanishment ot
the old stvle of peasant plodder “on our
selection” has been a subject of lamentation
in various quarters. Judging by its rigid
adherence to the One Big Port policy there
is room to doubt whether the Lang Govern-
ment isn’t more anxious to annoy the rich, or
suspectedly rich, man than to help the poor
man, and it certainly has much more luck
at damaging somebody than at helping any-
body. It is especially to be hoped that its
advisory board will be a pure, noble-minded
and intelligent institution, and qualified for a
heavenly crown later on. A great deal will
depend on that board.
♦
A Brighter Oulook for the Beef
Exporter.
An encouraging measure of success has
attended the initial attempt of an Australian
company to export beef, chilled after the
Argentine fashion, to Europe. It used to
lie supposed that the long distance meat has
to be carried made chilling out of the ques-
tion for this country, and freezing was the
process employed. The frozen meat arrived
in a condition inferior to that of the Argen-
tine stuff, while prices were in the same
ratio. As Australian liners were, fitted for
freezing only, experiments in chilling had
to be made on a small scale. These war-
ranted the experimenters in having a ship,
the Port Hardy, fitted with a special chilling
chamber, into which was placed a large con-
signment of prime Queensland beef killed on
December 8 and 9. Delayed by bad weather,
the consignment went some 70 days from
shipment to sale in Smithfield market. The
500 hindquarters arrived in perfect sale con-
dition, and showed well beside Argentine
goods. London experts were so impressed
that they volunteered the opinion that the
chilling problem has been solved as far as
the Australian trade is concerned. The
weather delays which held up the Port Hardy
held back Argentine shipping, and the meat-
market was glutted, with a resultant drop
in prices. Nevertheless, the Port Hardy
beef sold at 4d. per pound, which, at the
worst, is Id. a pound better than frozen-
meat prices. The Argentine, with its mag-
nificent organisation at home and abroad, its
relatively low production and freight costs,
and the advantage it has in being able to
ship all the year round, instead of season-
ally, as in Australia, will probably always
hold the balance of the beef trade. But the
greatest handicap the Australian exporter
has had in the past seems now likely to be
removed. What is necessary is concentra-
tion on chilling, and the proper equipment
of meat-carrying vessels. In mutton and
lamb Australia does better than the Argen-
tine. It must now get close on the Argen-
tino’s heels with beef.
♦
The Increase of Crime.
The N.S.W. police report is to the effect
that the crime record is looking up, there
having been 14,298 more offences of all sorts
brought under official notice in 1926 than
in the year before. These included breaches
of the motor-traffic laws, and probably only
about 1 per cent, of these come within the
bobby’s ken. In a single thoroughfare there
are often six motor-law breakers in progress
at once, and a cop in evidence only twice
a week at most. The number of serious
offences increased by 1269, including seven
extra murders, and 29 additional under
the headings of assault on women, bank rob-
bery and robbery with violence. One cause
which may be ascribed is the reduction of
working-hours, for an unintellectual bloke
with time on his hands must fill time in
somehow, and many blokes have no intellect
worth mentioning. (This superabundant
leisure also hinders production, and that
in turn leads the Slanuwiiang Ministry into
more loans.) Then the insufficiency of
the police force is an item. It is less than
half as numerous as that of Scotland, where-
fore the N.S.W. man has rather more people
to look after than his Caledonian brother,
and 10 times the area to supervise, and has,
it is estimated, 10 times as many miscel-
laneous jobs to take him away from his
proper duties. In addition to everything
else, there is the difficulty of securing con-
victions. As the “Official Year Book” puts
it:—
In view of the fact that trials of accused persons
in higher criminal courts take place on indictment
by the Attorney-General, and usually after magisterial
inquiry into the sufficiency of evidence for such
trials, and that the question of guilt is decided by a
jury of laymen, it is interesting to note that less
than two-thirds of the persons charged are convicted,
and in the case of offences against the person the
proportion is usually about one-half.
It suggests various things and then a few
more. One is the absurdity of requiring a
dozen jurymen to be unanimous instead of
having an odd number and accepting a
majority verdict, as in France and Scotland.
Crimes of violence, with or without robbery,
are characteristic of the push, and the push
is an unpleasant organisation to irritate.
If a pusliite is convicted, his accomplices
know that the whole 12 men have been-
hostile, and any or all of them may be used
as targets for bottles with the assurance
that no mistake is being made. Under the
Scottish system, a conviction is only proof
positive that eight were hostile, and it may
be hard to say which eight it was. Then
the odd number of jurors and the majority
verdict end the possibility of a disagree-
ment, which is otherwise so easy to secure,
by bribing or terrorising one individual, and
two or three disagreements generally amount
to an acquittal. The jury system may be
the palladium of British liberty, and all
that sort of thing, but there is a strong sus-
picion that the palladium sets a great deal
too many people at liberty, to the serious
danger of the public; and, in any case, it
isn’t suggested that the jury should be
abolished —only improved.
There is really nothing more sacrosanct
about an exact 12 men in a box than about
"Three Men in a Boat.” Any other number
qt men would do as well, provided the boat
wasn’t overloaded.
#
Baldwin Setting an Example.
“Peedoocer’s ‘Yes’ Man” : The British Gov-
ernment has given notice of its intention
to introduce legislation to prevent block book
ing, and to compel British showmen to
exhibit British-made films up to a percent-
age not yet announced. Largely because it
had a monopoly of film-making during three
war years, the U.S.A. controls the worlds
market. In Britain, as in Australia, Holly-
wood exchanges will only sell film to
the exhibitor under a system whereby lie is
compelled to sign a contract for a 12 months’
supply in advance. Failing this, lie will ger
no pictures at all. For an Australian or a
British picture all that remains is a few
nights during the year on which the show-
man can push it into a programme. Should
it displace an American film, the latter lias
to be paid for. In short, before Australian
or British films can be screened in Australian
or British theatres, American permission has
to be obtained, and even then the privilege
has to be purchased. It may be said that
American exchanges will handle British ana
Australian films. Yes, throughout Austral-
asia alone, and in special circumstances.
Firstly, as a sop to public sentiment, when
there has been a faint outcry for British
or Australian films; secondly, where a pic-
ture has the showman’s angle, as it is called---
“Tlie Kelly Gang,” for example; thirdly, m
the case of pictures made in Britain, by
Americans to a large extent, for the Ameri-
can market. Even in these circumstances
British and Australian films are at the mercy
of American exchanges. They can be given
inadequate publicity and an initial showing
at a second-rate city theatre, which robs
them of “pull” beyond the city, or they can
be shelved.
It is against this monstrous system that
the British Government is taking tardy


Mere words cannot express
their infinite superiority.
Army Club
lO for 9d. CIGARETTES 20 for 1/6
In pure ribbed watermarked paper.
CAVANDERS Ltd.. London (Est. I 775), Pioneers of Hygienic Cigarette Packing.
If*,
c
IP*
m
CORK
TIPPED
or PLAIN
action. If the Australian Prime Minister is
faithful to the resolutions passed at the
Imperial Conference similar legislation will
be put through the Australian Parliament,
but he does not seem very enthusiastic about
it, or didn’t when he last referred to the sub-
ject. Customs Minister Pratten professes
enthusiasm for the cause of Australian pic-
tures, but he has done nothing since he joined
the Government, though he has talked vol-
umes. Lazzarini, the N.S.W. Chief Secre-
tary, was prolific of promises early last year,
out, as American pictures control more votes
than the struggling Australian industry, he
turned the latter down. The only help the
Australian industry lias received has come
from the much-abused Vic. Allan-Peacock
Government, which has made it compulsory
for 1000 ft. of Australian film to be screened
at every Victorian show on and after July 1.
Yet no country has greater natural advan-
tages for picture-production, and if block
booking were abolished, if the benefits of
the tariff were extended to films, and if
reciprocal arrangements were made with
Britain, Canada, Maoriland, S’Africa and
India, the now despised industry would be-
come a splendid asset to the Commonwealth.
It would foster Australian sentiment while
giving the people honest entertainment, and
it would save young Australians of both
sexes from being vulgarised and brutalised
and denationalised by foreign rubbish with
an appearance of smartness. To guard
against mushroom companies springing up
under the shelter of Protective legislation,
the powers of the Commonwealth censor
might be increased.
Sinking Ships ami : Sundries.
Another ship came unstitched off the coast
of N. S. Wales on a recent night, and seven
seamen were drowned. A published theory
is that a plate became “detached,” and it
goes without saying that “no blame is attach-
able to anyone.” Meanwhile Customs Minister
Pratten, whose department has the responsi-
bility for making inquiries when a theoreti-
cally uusinkable ship has sunk, has furnished
Poude, .M.11.R. fon Capricornia (Q.), with
further particulars regarding the doings of
the Dorrigo. The Dorrigo sank quietly one
fine day in April last, and the waters closed
over 22 men. She was only a few hours
out of Brisbane, so few that it would have
taken the whole crew to shift the cargo in
such a way as to change the Dorrigo from
the condition of stability she was in on
leaving to the condition which caused her
to heel over and go down. And there is no
evidence that the crew tried to perform that
operation or miracle at all. so the 22 dead
men can scarcely be regarded as agents in
their own destruction.
The further information supplied by the
Minister takes the form of a report from a
naval architect in the Defence Department.
He opens his remarks by pointing out that
lie was not supplied with weights of struc-
tural additions and of sundry stores —singu-
lar omissions, truly. The weight of ship’s
and stewards’ stores would be mostly below
the main deck. It has an important bear-
ing on the question of loading, just as the
weight, height above the main deck and wind
surface of structural additions vitally affect
the matter of seaworthiness. A superstruc-
ture weighing a few cwts. might conceivably
exert a capsizing pull of tons, by reason of
the surface it offers to the wind. Mr. Prat-
ten supplied the naval architect with data
obtained from the builders of the Dorrigo.
Those persons may have known all about
added superstructures, but they did not mention
them in their communication to the archi-
tect. Some pertinent information might be
got from the previous owners. Mr. Pratten
might ask them what permanent deck erec-
tions the Dorrigo had when she left their
hands; whether her boats were lifted to
make room for any such erections; whether
canvas dodgers had been supplanted by wood,
and to what extent; what amount of ballast
was carried, and why they carried any. As.
all the ballast had been thrown overboard
prior to the last voyage, there is scope for
intelligent inquiry in that direction also.
It is Mr. Pratten’s business to be inquisi-
tive in these matters. Considering the number
of Australian ships that have gone down of
late years, and the valuable lives that have
been lost, he can hardly be too inquisitive.
—
Idiosyncrasies of a Water Board.
Melbourne’s Board of Works, an indirectly-
elected and, consequently, immovable body
that toys with the city’s water-supply, has a
fixed idea that you can get a quart of water
out of a pintpot. Also that the said pot,
though emptied through a half-inch pipe,
can be kept filled through a straw. Most
of the board’s mains are older than itself,
and as rusted, and where they are supposed
to carry 3in. of water —as at the Caulfield
racecourse, where a grandstand went up in
smoke on February 12—they carry lin. or
thereabouts. Some years back the board
learned that the far southern suburbs wanted
more water, so it built a reservoir to hold
a summer supply at Netting Ilill. This was
to be filled from the Surrey Hills reservoir
by a roundabout pipe-line through Burwood
anil Oakleigh. It didn't fill, mainly owing
to the population’s annoying habit of increas-
ing ; in fact, the Surrey Hills reservoir got
empty faster than it tilled. So the plank
built another reservoir and laid a pipe-line
thence to the O’Shanassy dam, beyond
Ilealesville. Still more people kept on using
more water. The board then duplicated the
line, constructed another big reservoir at
Mitcham, and ran a 2ft. line of pipe across
country to Notting Hill. This pipe-line was
an experiment; jiart of it was cast-iron,
part wrought-iron and part wood. Some of it
leaked and made the country needlessly
sloppy ; some of it still leaks. At first nobody
was allowed to tap the thing except the few
through whose property it ran • but the side-
tracked majority protested so savagely that
the board gave in. Now Croydon, Ringwood,
Mitcham, Blackburn and the country between
Mitcham and Mordialloc are all tapping the
original stream from the O’Shanassy, but
not one of them is getting as much water
as it wants. A choice recent feat of the
plank was to lay a 6in. branch, off the
Mitcham-Nottiug Hill main, to the new golf
links at Burwood. The golf club was allowed
to put in a 3iri. pipe, as were several near-by
market-gardeners; other landholders on the
hill above were allowed 2in. and liin. pipes.
These latter are now wondering what the
joke was, as they can’t get enough fluid in
a day to dilute a nobbier of whisky. At
latest the board had stopped the use of
garden sprinklers and the like. It explains
that it has plenty of fluid, but wants to con-
serve it in case of necessity. It even told
Werribee Council that it would be pleased
to reticulate that —er —suburb, which is 60
miles from the source of supply. It will
probably give the bayside township a 2in.
main and expect it to be satisfied with a
cupful a day.
• ~ *
“X.N.0.” : As the recent New Guinea murders
are only the forerunners of more inevitable
trouble when we decide to penetrate more
than 30 miles from the coast, it would be well
HIS FIXED OPINION.
“Do you believe in fortunes, Mr. Woodhouse?”
“No. I married one.”
for General Wisdom to be given carte blanche
in the handling of any situation that may
arise. As a protection against the equally
inevitable “humanitarian” critic, who usually
seems to hold the white man’s safety cheap, ic
might be well to obtain the prior sanction of
the League of Nations. It is not a bit of
use, after a white party has been attacked,
to send a punitive expedition about a mouth
later, because by that time the light-hearted
nigger will probably have forgotten all about
the original attack, and the “cause and effect"
lesson will be completely lost. Neither is a
machine-gun or a rifle at all a suitable weapon
for the purpose. They are too subtle for the
primitive mind to understand, and it is very
much open to doubt if the nigger connects the
“ping” of a rifle with the hole in his anatomy.
This lesson was learnt many years ago in
West Africa, and, until the native had a
thorough acquaintance with modern firearms
and their potentialities, the main weapon in
the white man’s armory was a rocket. The
native can understand this, because he can
follow its flight through the air, and so
regards it as a sort of supernatural arrow or
spear, which are his own weapons. In addi-
tion, a rocket, especially the out-size “war-
rocket,” makes much more fuss than either a
rifle or machine-gun, and has a correspond-
ingly more terrifying effect. It looks fear-
seme enough when it sizzles and spits through
the air, and the final burst at the end, while
doing comparatively little physical damage,
has a devastating effect which is of incalcu-
lable psychological value.
♦
“The Listening-Insect”: “Mubkaii” (B.
24/2/'27) has sidestepped my query. Hav-
ing officiated at u couple of dozen such cere-
monies, I don’t need to be told that cables
can be fished up from the vasty deep. What
I asked was, how, having hooked and raised
our cables, the uncanny German succeeded
in cutting through the g.p. insulation and
getting at the copper core without both ends
immediately being apprised of his nefarious
operations. It can’t be done; whereas a
million listeners can cut into a wireless
transmission without the sender knowing
anything about it. The Emden was enabled
to dodge her pursuers for several weeks by
picking up the instructions issued to them
by the obliging authorities in India. Cer-
tainly, a wireless message caused her down-
fall, which shows that the system has its
military virtues as well as its disadvantages.
The British Government recognised those
disadvantages when the German rush of 1918
threatened to reach the Channel ports. The
Eastern Cable Co. received a ’phone ring
asking it to lay a cable from Porthcurnow
in Cornwall to Bordeaux. It completed the
job within 48 hours. I saw the Cornish
end in 1920. Owing to Focir, the A.I.F and
other factors, it was still a virgin. As
for the statement that military business
between Washington and France was con-
ducted exclusively by wireless, I know from
personal experience that it simply isn’t true.
And despite the real growth of wireless,
which nobody wants to retard, the cable
companies had a bumper year in 1926.
Much of their traffic was fed to them by
wireless stations, which have opened up areas
not previously within the orbit of the cables.
• ; 4
“Sling”: A Bulletin writer suggests
(10/2/’27) that a system of steady jobs at
regular wages might solve the wharf-
labor problem. The Shipping Labor Bureau,
formed during the 1917 strike and later
abolished “in the interests of waterside
peace,” which has been a furious Donny-
brook ever since, introduced a wages system,
the idea being borrowed from Liverpool. Men
enrolling could take on either permanent cr
casual work. Permanent hands were paid
£4 2s. 6d.—-more than the then basic wage—
for a 44-hour week, with the usual public
holidays and annual leave on full pay. If
there was no work for them they drew their
screws just the same; if they toiled overtime
they received the Ai-bitration Court rates
fixed for casuals. The companies utilising
their services paid the expenses of the bureau
by contributing a percentage on wages-sheets.
Upon this system, which resulted in peace
and marked efficiency, the deregistered Water-
side Workers’ Federation trained every gun.
The chief item of its propaganda was the
assertion that the permanents had to work
all round the clock, wet or fine, for their
weekly wage. Another charge, equally false,
was that their pay was docked to meet the
bureau’s fees. These representations pre-
vailed, and the bureau disappeared. I my-
self heard an Arbitration Judge comment
bitterly on what he called “the fact” that
permanent hands had apparently to work
any hours demanded of them for their weekly
wage only, though the evidence as to hours
and overtime had been placed before the
Court. No wonder a W.W.F. official
later referred to this Judge as “a good sort
of old cove.” The main objection to the
permanent system as far as the Wharfies’
Federation is concerned is that the lumper
on wages must work as regular a routine as
the civil servant or the clerk, and has to
account for absence as they have to do. The
casual hand can knock off when he please;
and have Wednesdays to himself if lie feels
like it, which a large proportion of him
usually does. The casual business suits that
sort of laborer, and it emphatically suits the
union boss ; but to women, children and the
community in general it is a curse.
4
“G.M.”: An article on Westralia in the
S. M. Herald (18/2/’27) put some of the
happenings of that much-subsidised State in
a rather unfamiliar light. This was one of
the gleams :
The closing down of the Horseshoe mine last April
did not mean that there was no more gold to be
taken from it, but that, owing to the immense
amount of gold stolen from it annually, the owners
were unable to make any profit on the capital they
had invested. Kalgoorlie has been remarkably free
from industrial troubles, and has always been exceed-
ingly prosperous; the municipality has an annual
revenue of £40,000 and no debts. ... Yet the mines
are not paving’, though untold wealth is still there
for the taking.
On the basis of that explanation it sounds
not unreasonable that Kalgoorlie should be
‘'remarkably free from industrial troubles."
The financial pioneers, a breathless and
speculative crowd, rushed madly off to
Europe to sell their properties for great
wads of absentees’ money, and did the thing
so effectively that the “Joint Stock Com-
panies’ Year Book” stated the case thus a
few years ago :
Goldmining
Goldmining Stock Stock Held
Held Abroad, in Australasia,
Westralian , .. £11,405,000 £1,876,000
Other five States 2,033,000 10,426,000
The bit of Westralian gold scrip held in
Australasia was mostly owned in the Eastern
States, but if Westralia got mighty little
of the dividends it got the wages, which
were high, and the steals, which are said
to have been large. Still, when Perth poli-
ticians put in a claim for vast alleged losses
through the artificial fixing of the price, of
gold during part of the war period, they
posed as if it was wholly their own loss, and
not, to a very imposing extent, the loss of
outside shareholders; and the Commission
which the Bruce-Page Government sent
across to investigate was too obtuse to notice
the point. And when the demani
was made for a handsome bonus
per ounce to put new life into the
decaying industry no mention was
made of gold robbery as one pos-
sible cause of the decay. Seeing
that the proposed .bonus would
have been mostly paid by the East-
ern . States, where the local share-
holders who lost .both by the com-
mandeering and the looting of the
precious metal mostly lived, this
concealment might possibly be
classed as lack of frankness and
akin to leading the double life.
4
It may not be long before the
Australian business man will be
able to take his ’phone off the hook
and ask the London Exchange to
put him on to a number. One of
the marvels of the system will
be the use of automatic connecting
switches which will be operated
by the user’s voice. There is nothing really
incredible in this, since the vocal sounds are
only vibrations in the ether, and can be
converted into electrical impulses which the
thermionic valve can boost up to the power
required to work quite relatively cumbrous
machinery. The writer of the Thousand and
One Tales anticipated the discovery in the
story of At.t Baba, but he didn’t work it out
far enough to be able to patent it.
4
Within two years an immigrant will
wander down a steamer’s gangway, or an
infant will raise its first bawl in a three-
roomed tenement in Collingwood, and Mel-
bourne’s millionth citizen will have arrived.
At the end of last year, according to the
official statists, the population rose —it never
spreads—to 944,400, an increase over the
previous year of 32,270. During the same
period the approximate excess of arrivals
over departures in the whole State was
26.000. And so ingrained is the belief that
prosperity consists in more ice-cream parlors,
more movie-theatres and more dance-palays
that nobody seems to mind.
[For any Plain English paragraphs which reepk
a signature under the law, S. 11. Prior, J. E. "fit
and James Edmond, of 214 George-strect, Sydney
are responsible.]


AUSTRALIA
Offers you endless opportunities, for there is health, wealtn and content to be
won in this great land.
But here, as elsewhere, success and fortune mainly follow wise planning and
thrifty practice.
Let Australia’s own Bank help you with both. Its officers are ready at all
times to extend to you any assistance within their power, and the bank s efficient
service will be available to you in whatever district you make your home.
There is a Commonwealth Savings Bank Agency in every Post Office and full
branches in the principal towns.
Commonwealth lank of Australia
(Guaranteed by the Commonwealth Government.)
[f
BETTER
TRANSMISSION
touches and quickens
every department of
manufacture. It re-
duces replacement
costs of belts, bearings and shafting, conserves power,
increases output and expedites repairs.
“MANGROVITE” LEATHER OR RAW-HIDE BELTING
is unsurpassed by any in the world, and is ideal for our Australian
conditions. Tough, strong and durable, it gives many years of hard,
consistent, and trouble-free service.
MANGROVITE BELTING LTD.,
Charles Ludowici, Managing Director,
49 York Street ( Wynyard Square), Sydney.
POLITICAL
POINTS
March 1 marked the beginning of a new
era in the Northern Territory—a regenera-
tion. so to speak. The 523,620 square miles
were divided into two sections, described with
brilliant origin alit’ l ’ as North Australia and
Central Australia. When to these are added
West Australia, South Australia and Austra-
lia itself it can be seen that the name isn’t
wholly off the map. The Government Resi-
dent of is on his way to Alice Springs.
The Government Resident of N.A. and the
whole North Australian Commission have
arrived at Darwin, and begun to “function,”
as the official report has it. The next things
wanted are a complete railway and some
branches, as well as a few more handy vessels
on the coast besides the hired tub or tublet
which was lately 18 months behind at a way-
side port because of “industrial trouble.”
Theodore, late of Queensland, won the
Dailey (N.S.W.) election (by 2200 less than
Bill Maliony’s majority in 1925, Federal
Labor’s black year), without giving any
details of his wonderful scheme for getting
rid of all the Australian public debts “when
Labor accedes to office” :
When Labor accedes to office.... it must attempt a
national control of credit. It must free the country
from the domination of the private vendors of money,
those who rise the people’s savings and the credit
resources of the nation for private gain, and wield
enormous political power because they are able to
dictate the monetary policy of the Commonwealth.
If Theo. knows how to “free the country,”
etc., by any means save plain repudiation,
which Australia isn’t strong enough to
attempt even if it wanted to, lie could sell
the secret for a few millions easily. But
it is 100 to 1 that it will die with him.
Nowadays the N.S.W. Lang crowd doesn’t
even pretend to regard the people’s House
as a deliberative assembly. One day last
week, by persistent abuse of the formula
“I move that the question be now put,” it
secured the House's "approval” for a bill
taxing employers £65 per £lOOO of wages
to finance its child-endowment tomfoolery,
and for another raising the income-tax on
companies (it loathes companies) from 2s.
6d. to Bs. in the £, and increasing the rates
on private individuals with more than £1250
p.a. of taxable income. The proceedings
lasted ten minutes short of three hours. The
Leg. Council has held up the idiotic child-
endowment scheme by referring it to a select
committee, but it can’t help acquiescing in
the income-tax slug. Even a fatheaded
and faithless Government must be assisted
to make a show of wrestling with its huge
deficit.
Disregarding precedent, Vic. Labor-leader
Hogan is getting in ahead of Premier Allan
with his policy speech, which is to be
delivered to-night (March 3). Allan tried
to get a hall at Kyabram for Saturday
night, the date on which the Assembly is to
be guillotined, but it had been let for some-
thing else, and he had to fix Monday. Of
course, it isn’t really Hogan’s policy. He
is just the filter through which it is supplied.
Tlie A.L.P. controls the reservoir and the
reticulation mains.
A hint of what may lie in wait for the
White Australia policy, especially as
“advanced” Laborites now rail at it and
cheer on their yellow brother, is seen in
the S’African Government’s abandonment of
its anti-Asiatic legislation, which included
segregation and trade restrictions. The deci-
sion was the result of a conference with a
delegation from India; voluntary repatria-
tion, with free passage from S’Africa to the
Indian’s home district, plus a bonus of £2O
per adult and £lO per child, has been agreed
on as a compromise. Whether Hindus who
have found S’Africa a Tom Tiddler's ground
will accept “voluntary repatriation” is
another question. Most probably they won’t.
HIS MASTER’S VICE.
“Mr. Spouter thought that a loan policy was justified by the present circumstances of Australia, which
needed rapid development. (A voice: ‘That’s becaus e the A.N.A. is bossed by politicians.’)”
Tlie Westralian Labor Government has its
faults, but it is free from that sullen hatred of
the pastoralist which marks the Labor crowd
in N. S. Wales. A leading item of the policy
announced by Premier Collier at Boulder is
financial assistance to North-West cattlemen
to convert their stations into sheep-runs.
For this purpose the State Agricultural Bank
is to be enlarged.
The two Judges who decided that the
engineers’ working-week should be reduced
to 44 hours did a lot of abstruse argument
about the effect, if any, on the cost of pro-
duction. But the men in charge of big
tilings mostly have the figures worked out.
The addition to the Victorian railway ex-
penses is set down at £636,256 per annum,
which is something for Clapp to think
about. It is wonderful how much money a
pair of lawyers, put on the Bench to struggle
with business problems of which they know
little, if anything, can splash about in an
hour or two.
It was mentioned last week that N.S.W.
had owed the Commonwealth £9,826,202 in
the shape of a loan for soldier-settlement,
but that the State had paid a trifle of
£20,219. Of the remaining £9,805,983 inter-
est, to October last, accounted for £1,340,000.
and the Federal Government has agreed,
presumably by request, to write this off. At
last June the States owed their parent Gov-
ernment £102,728,770, and they are evidently
willing to owe it a lot more. Probably the
habit of writing off bits of liability will
grow with the debt.
A little mill, calculated to produce a mil-
lion gallons of motor-spirit annually from
spare molasses, has been erected near Mac-
kay (Q.) and officially opened by a Senator.
Half of the capital is British. This enterprise
is at least a drop in the bucket, and the drop
has been a dashed long time coming. Suc-
cess should help the sugar industry a trifle,
but it wouldn’t pay to grow more sugar
and enlarge the money-losing export busi-
ness merely to get more molasses. Another
concern, which hopes to make enough motor-
spirit to supply all Australia by dragging
it out of brown coal, has announced that
it will by-and-bye get a move on in Vic-
toria. Its capital is British also; still, the
absentee capitalist who manufactures here
is an improvement on the one who sends
ready-made fuel here in ships.
The Federal Capital Commission has
asked the Australian Art Association, whose
headquarters are in Melbourne, to lend 150
pictures with which it might hide the un-
finished condition of the walls of the Gover-
nor-General’s residence and the Prime Min-
ister's encampment at Canberra. The Gov.-
Genera-l’s residence, it was explained, will
house the Duke and Duchess during the
opening celebrations, and it would be bad
for the country if the visitors went away
without being apprised of the fact that the
Commonwealth Government is a patron of
the arts. The cheap suggestion merits scorn,
both from the country at large and the
artists called upon to strain their charitable
instincts. If the Bruce-Pages had wished
to encourage Australian art by giving 'it a
home at Canberra they should have thought
of the notion earlier and commissioned tlm
best brush-wielders to put forth tlieir noblest
efforts. Asking them now to lend the rejects
in their studios is a shabby device.
In reply to the charge that 2000 road
workers liad'been mustered in Labor centres
and distributed among doubtful country elec-
torates in time to get their names on the
State rolls, Westralian Works Minister
McCallum said there was nothing in it. The
2000 road workers —all Labor-unionists of
course —had been “sent out quietly and
quickly so as not to interfere with the har-
vesting and the transporting of our liar-
vest.” The other side came back with
the statement that it was unusual for road
works to be started in midsummer, when
Westralian conditions are unfavorable, and
strange that not one of the 2000 had found
his way to a safe Opposition electorate like
Williams-Narrogin, whereas 400 had been
sent to (4reenough, 500 to Nelson, 350 to
Avon, 250 to Nortliam, 150 to Pilbara and
130 to Bunbury, the number in nearly every
case being greater than the sitting member’s
majority in 1024. McCallum testily rejoined
that the accusers were “garbage-gatherers,”
and went on directing the Labor campaign.
The strike which was lately resolved upon
at Yallourn, where the Victorian Govern-
ment cooks electricity for a number of towns,
had the usual basis. The employer said
that two men were unsatisfactory, and dis-
charged them, thus making room for two
more. The others said the origin al pair must
be retained and paid whether they were un-
satisfactory or not, and that it must thus
be made clear that the whole crowd could
be as unsatisfactory as it pleased with impu-
nity. There are probably a hundred strikes
or strikelets in progress every week on the
plea that the man who pays the wages has
no right to sack Smith, and a few more on
the plea that he refuses to sack Smith when
ordered. If it isn't definitely resolved that
the wagepayer has some little authority the
logical result will be a raising of the ques-
tion whether a constituency has the right
to sack its member, provided, of course, he is
a Labor member and belongs to a union. It
is a marvel that the matter hasn’t turned
up already.
Theodore's methods in the Dailey election
consisted. rather much in tearing passion to
tatters and throwing the fragments all over
the place. At one of his meetings he was
on the verge of a blue fit because of “the
gutter policies of the Nationalists,” also their
"campaign of public abuse and calumny.”
When he got down to details it transpired
that the blackest whopper of them all was
an alleged statement that he, the foaming
orator, wasn't Australian-born. It isn’t
likely that anyone took much trouble to cir-
culate such a harmless little yarn. If Theo-
dore hadn't been born here he would only be.
in the same category as Hughes, Holman,
artist Lambert, Neville Ilowse, Minister
Badly and stacks of other great men, includ-
ing Marshal Focli and the Pope, to say no-
thing of almost the entire human race. But
if it will do any good The Bulletin is pre-
pared to state that Theodore is an Austra-
lian product.
The N.S.W. Liquor (Amendment) Bill,
which permits publicans to slake thirst up
to 9 p.m., provided hunger is being appeased
at the same time—in other words, to serve
strong drink with genuine meals —was re-
introduced in the Leg. Council last week and
fared better on this occasion, the second
reading (previously defeated by 25 to 22)
being approved by 85 to 17. An amend-
ment extending to restaurant proprietois
who sell Australian wines the same privileges
as those accorded to hotelkeepers was agreed
to. It only remains for the Assembly to
consent to the removal of the unfair discrimi-
nation which Minister Mclvell was prepared
to see exercised against an Australian indus-
try, and the Government will be able to ban-
quet persons like the Duke of York without
breaking its own laws.
At long last the British Government was
moved to tell the Itussian Soviet push to
keep its paws out of British affairs, and
not to subscribe to the support of British
strikes, or arouse Chinese mobs to attack
British persons and property. Whereupon tin 1
Soviet bosses replied in a tone of anguish
that British politicians had spoken disrespect-
fully of the Soviet, and that one thing bal-
anced the other. Still, when one country has
been robbed by the usurping Government of
another of something like a thousand millions,
some remarks about the robbers are strictly
in order. In the early days of the Revolu-
tion and the Terror, when hopes ran high
and it was an offence punishable by death
for one Russian to sell an egg to anotlmr
except through a Government department,
the Lenin-Trotskies looted Petrograd and
Moscow and other cities to the limit, their
soldiers and police making a house-to-house
search for gold and jewels to be “national-
ised.” The profits were exhausted after a
while, and the “Commissaries” fell on lean
times, and now the dream of plundering Lon -
don and Calcutta and Shanghai keeps then
awake at night, so that they can’t abstain
from silly meddling.
Vic. Labor has selected W. J. McGrath,
manager of a Collius-street wholesale pro-
duce firm, to run against Alec Peacock.
Treasurer of the Allancocks, for the remod-
elled Allandale constituency. Apart from
his claims as a Laborite, whatever they may
be worth, McGrath’s only association with
the district is that he was born at Spring-
bank, a spot where Peacock usually bags
every vote. A good country Laborite would
have been harder to beat than a produce
merchant from Melbourne.
McMurtrie’s, of Sydney, who are large
people in the boot line, informed tlieir
employees that per cent, added to the
wage-bill for child endowment, to say no-
thing of increased income-tax and sundries,
would put them on a losing basis, and if tin l
imposts came along they must suspend work
or move. They offered to let any well-
known accountants that the employees
selected go through the accounts and verify
the statement. Premier Lang was off the
mark at once. He said that he and his
friends “could refute the statement,” and
that it was “utterly untrue.” A responsible
sort of man might want to look at the figures
first, but Lang, the suburban estate-agent,
just bangs and slangs and asserts things.
[For any Political paragraphs which require a
signature under the law, S. H. Prior, J. K. Webb
and Janies Edmond, of 214 George-street, Sydney
are responsible.]
GUINEA-PIGS.
[FOR THE BULLETIN. ]
“The N.S.W. Parliamentary Labor caucus approved
a proposal that members of the Leg. Council should
receive a guinea per sitting, on application at the
Treasury. An amendment that the money should be
furnished by a levy on the salaries ot Ministers
and Labor members of the Assembly was l ejected
as impracticable.”
Guinea a sitting, no less and ho more,
Guinea for ev’ry attendance you score.
Hundred a year you may snavel, perhaps,
If you are brisk and assiduous chaps.
Little enough, you may grumbling aver,
Where it’s contrasted with seventeen per,
Such as we reps, of the people demand,.
Aye and secure, from a suffering land.
•Still, it is pay in our pockets we slip,
l ours is a kind of a sort of a tip.
All lucre’s grime.
:ut a guinea a time!
Comrades, you ought to regard it as piime.
Guinea a sitting! The diff’rence denotes
You’re there by favor and we’re here by votes.
You are the amateurs, ev’ryone knows,
We’re the hard-working and hard-bitten pros.
Time was when kudos contented your souls,
When you’d have jibbed at appealing for doles.
Passes o’er railways exhausted your claims,
That and the handles in front of your names.
Now, since you’re yielding to merc’nariness
Some sort of sop we must fling you, I guess.
Here’s just the right
Sum to requite
Chaps for a part of a day (or a night).
Jurymen —special, at least —might condemn
Such an amount as too paltry for them ;
Chaps who excel with the ball or the bat
Turn up their snouts at an offer like that,
still, they’re essential, it can’t be forgot:
You, as you hardly need telling, are not.
Why should we fee an obstructionist gang
Merely for thwarting our good Mr. Lang,
Just for continuing to cumber the earth?
Sure, ’tis as much as, or more than, it’s worth,
Pound and a bit
Whenever you sit!
Dash it, it’s handsome, you ought to admit.
Guinea a sitting ! To offer you more
Wouldn’t be fair to the Laborite corps.
All of you sent there, yourselves must agree,
Pledged to political fclo de se.
More we assigned you, per sitting per nob.
More you’d be loath to relinquish your job,
And there’s a few of you, one must allow,
Showing no striking alacrity now.
Fatter the pickings are, devil a doubt,
Harder you’ll find it to wipe yourselves out,
Easier—eh ?
From the paddock to stray.
Take it or leave it, a guinea a day!
N.S.W.
MIDFORD.


METROVICK.
HIGH TORQUE
HIGH EFFICIENCY
SQUIRREL CAGE
INDUCTION MOTORS
7
M
mm
The leading features of our C.K.B. Motors
may be briefly summarised as follows:
1. Low initial cost.
2. Robustness.
3. High starting torque.
4. High efficiency.
5. Quick starting.
6. Lower starting current.
7. Reduced slip.
Melbourne, Sydney, Adelaide,
Brisbane and Wellington (N.Z.).
NOBEL-GLASGOW EXPLOSIVES.
The Standard of Quality throughout the Empire.
Monobel
Samsonite
Gelatine Dynamite
Gelignite
Blasting Gelatine
Dynamite
Safety Fuse
Detonators
Cartridges
Road-Maker
and Crop-Raiser
The Martin Ditcher
Builds, Repairs and Maintains
Roads; Ditches, Terraces, Grades,
Levels, Fills In, Reclaims, Irrigates.
Exton House, Queen Street, Brisbane.
519 Little Collins Street, Melbourne.
T.T. B’l’gs, Light Square, Adelaide.
Queen Street, Perth.
J
Write
to
Desk B.
Challis House, Martin Place, Sydne}'.
The WILD CAT
COLUMN
The Squatting Investment Ca (Mel-
bourne) :
Added to Re-
Dec., Profits. Dividends. Reserves, serves.
1916 .. £1,839 3i p.c. = £9,733 £34
1917 .. 19,798 6jj „ „ 19,466 £332 366
1918 .. 24,157 8J „ „ 24,334 IS9
1919 .. 14,861 5 „ „ 14,600 261 450
1920 . . 4,506 1§ ~ „ 4,866 - 90
1921 . . 9,842 3J „ „ 9,733 109 199
1922 .. 41,700 10 „ „ 29,200 12,500 12,699
1923 . . 29,050 10 „ „ 29,201 12,548
Assets written down .. £146,002
1924 .. 59,976 30 p.c. = 43,801 16,175 28,723
1925 .. 32,991 20 „ „ 29,201 3,790 32,513
1926 . . 28,617 20 ~ ~ 29,201 31,929
Smaller sales of sheep accounted for the
lessened profit. Otherwise the year was
favorable in almost every respect. The
season was an exceptionally good one, and
the rainfall was not only above average but
was well spread. There was an abundance
of grass and herbage throughout the year.
The number of sheep shorn was greater,
the clip amounting to 2623 bales of wool
compared with 2257 bales for 1925. Rabbits
increased, of course, with the favorable con-
ditions, but not to a marked extent. Blow-
flies did little damage, but the wild dogs
were wilder than usual. Livestock on hand
consisted of 87,776 sheep, 87 cattle and
310 horses —an increase in the jumbueks of
8000. The writing off for mortality (00S7
sheep) was a trifle lighter. With such favor-
able circumstances, something much better
than the £28,017 mentioned by the accounts
might have been expected. More than the
amount earned in the 12 months was distri-
buted, which suggests that the directors are
satisfied as to the position and the imme-
diate outlook. The 20 p.c. is not so rich
as it looks, nor were the 1925 and 1924 divs.
Part of these and earlier distributions have
to be regarded by shareholders as return of
capital, and the investor has to bear that
fact in mind. From 1912 to 1923, for in-
stance, 17s. of the total amount handed out
was thus counted, and 9s. of the 21s. paid
in the past three terms was labelled bonus.
In 1924 capital was reduced by half, adjust-
ment being made by writing the amount —
£146,002 —off the book value of leases. A
conservative view is essential, of course, for
the leases fall in in eight years, and if
Queensland is still under Labor rule renewal
cannot be taken for granted. At December
31 the stations and improvements were in
at a written-down value of £60,582, and
plant at £5210, £632S and £463 having been
written off the respective items. When the
leases expire the co. will, of course, have
its tenant rights in the improvement, what-
ever might be the worth of that. Other
balance-sheet movements in the 12 months
were unimportant:—•
1924. 1925. 1926.
Capital .. .. £146,002 £146,002 £146,002
Liabilities .. .. 912 940 581
Stations, plant, etc. 78,743 71,984 65,792
Sheep, cattle, horses 45,230 47,218 52.071
Wool unsold . . 810 2,100 2,565
Cash, etc 109,789 87,621 86,951
The co. holds 8038 Bawra shares, but these
have not been taken into the accounts. Sales
were made recently at 12s. 3d., so that there
is a reserve of almost £5OOO in that parcel.
Also, the book value of £52,071 given to the
88,000 head of stock is a pretty modesty.
But then conservatism is highly desirable
in such matters, for a severe general drought
could either wipe out half the flock before
it could be travelled to agistment areas or
mop up heavy sums if hand-feeding was
accepted as the alternative. Recent rains
have given the co.’s areas a flying start in
the current year; there is green feed over
about half the run, and the remainder is
carrying fair supply of dry grass. The wool
market seems stable. The scrip is well held,
and the last seller sighted was asking 455.
* * * *
J. C. Lunowici and Son, Ltd., leather
•hanufacturers, etc., Sydney ••
' „ „ . To Re- Re-
Dec., Profits. Dividends. serves, serves.
1916 .. £5075 10 p.c. = £5664 £7,130
1917 .. 5948 IQ „ „ 5664 £284 7,414
1918 .. 6341 10 „ „ 5664 677 8,091
1919 . . 6685 10 „ „ 5664 1021 9,112
1920 .. 9993 10 „ „ 6986 3007 12,119
1921 .. 8585 10 „ „ 7930 655 12,774
1922 .. 8465 10 ~ „ 7930 534 13,309
1923 .. 8117 10 ~ ~ 7930 187 13,496
1924 .. 8744 10 „ „ 7930 814 14.310
1925 .. BS3O 10 „ „ 7930 900 15,210
1926 . . 8799 10 „ ~ 7930 860 16,070
Profits were slightly less, but the margin over
the 10 p.c. div. was comfortable, and it may
be taken that the position wasn’t strained
when the £8790 was written in. “During
the year,” says the report, “the demand for
the co.’s products has been very satisfactory,
both for local and overseas consumption. So
much so that improved machinery has been
purchased to cope with the demand.” That
is a cheery note, more particularly since the
co. has built up an export trade which is
solid and substantial. If that can be in-
creased a word of praise will be in order.
Exports of leather from the Commonwealth
amount to less than one-tenth the value of the
raw skins and hides. J. C. Ludowici at least is
doing its best to expand the export figures and
the trade-mark of the firm—it is the pioneer
belting maker—is known throughout Asia.
Movements in balance-sheet figures were as
follows :
1918. 1924. 1925. 1926.
Capital .. £56,644 £79,300 £79,300 £79,300
Liabilities .. 8,655 28,779 32,854 26,533
Freeholds . . 10.181 58,637 50,576 50,881
Plant, etc. .. 3,576 7,242 7,994 9,013
Stocks.. .. 41,466 45,081 50,639 40,950
Book debts ... 11,892 14,832 21,965 24,473
Cash, etc. . . 3,752 1,908 1,499 1,901
Stocks were worked down, and advantage
may have been taken of the good term to
view the lists more conservatively than usual.
Visible results of the reduction were the
liquidation of £GGOO-odd of liabilities and
new machinery purchases. Book debts in-
creased by £2507, but are light at £24,473.
Creditors were well secured, all outside debts
being more than twice covered by liquid and
semi-liquid assets. Net tangibles in sight at
December 31 were equal to 245. for each £1
share. Shares changed hands recently at
265. Gd.
* * * *
Yai.f of Clwypp Coal and Brick Co.
(N.S.W.) :
To Re- Re-
Profits. Dividends. serves, serves.
Dee., 1919. . £6,098 15 p.e.= £4500 £1,598 £15,293
Reserves capitalised, £15,000 .. 293
June, 1920.. 12,923 10 p.c.= 3750 9,173 9,466
Dec., 1920.. 17.559 10 „ „ 3750 13,809 23.275
Reserves capitalised, £15,000 .. 8,275
June, 1921.. 11,100 20 p.c.= 9000 2,100 10,375
Dec., 1921.. 7,426 10 „ „ 4500 2,926 13.301
Dropped out of reserves, £llO9 net. ) nor
June, 1922-.. 4,393 10 p.c.= 4500 j 12,080
Dec., 1922.. 6,437 10 „„ 4500 1,937 14,022
Dropped out of reserves, £lB2O 12,202
June, 1923.. 9,086 20 p.c.= 9000 86 12,288
Dec., 1923.. 7.928 15 ~ ~ 6750 1,178 13,466
£30.000 of capital returned.
Written off tax reserve, £3OOO 10,466
June, 1924.. 6.324 22Jp.c.= 6750 10,040
Dec., 1924.. 6,265 15 „ „ 4500 1,765 11,805
Written off, tax reserve, £lOOO.. 10,805
June 1925.. 4,627 15 p.c. = 4500 127 10,932
Dec., 1925.. 6,199 15 „ „ 4500 1,699 12.031
June, 1926.. 4,491 15 ~ ~ 4500 - 12,622
Dec., 1926.. 8,127 15 ~ ~ 4500 3,627 10’249
A second colliery is being opened up; develop-
ment , work is “proceeding very satisfac-
torily.” The co. was so well placed that it
has been able to proceed thus far without
seeking further capital, although at Decem-
ber 31 it had called on its bankers for £5258
and was owing £7360 to sundry creditors—
more than has usually been the case. The
liquid position suffered, of course :-—.
Dec., Dec., Dec., Dec.,
, . . , , 1923. 1924. 1925. 1926.
Liquid assets .. £75,085 £40,804 £41,828 £30,177
Liabilities.. .. 2,570 1,166 ■ 1,738 12,618
Surplus . . £72,515 £39,638 £40,090 £17,559
“No 2 colliery account” is in at £20.840.
All other fixed assets amount to £33.000,
which suggests, were other indications lack-
ing, that writing down has been done with
a heavy hand. Coal sales brought in £47.370
—a good return. Owing to the realisation
ot Commonwealth stock to finance the
development of the new mine, interest received
was much less. The return from the brick-
works for the half-year was at the rate of
92 p.c. (less share of overhead) on the writ-
ten-down value, but it is a small item in total
revenue. A contingency account makes its
appearance on this occasion. It is accounted
true profit in the figures of the introductory
table: judged on its past, the management
is not likely to have forgotten to make all
usual provisions—and a few more. If that
be so, then the market’s opinion of the
scrip—buyers seek the shares (13s. 4d. f.-p.)
at 25s. —isn’t over-estimating things, for dis-
closed earnings account for the 15 p.c. p.a.
comfortably. The new mine will be a brake
unti! it reaches producing stage, but results
thereafter should be sparkling, provided mar-
kets can be found. However, it has been
uniformly successful in the past, and the
I_.it ligow Coal Association seems to be func-
tioning as efficiently as ever. The miners are
the uncertain quantity, but then they have
never been anything else; it is the chief risk
of the industry.
* * * *
K. F. B. Foundry, Ltd., Sydney (goodwill
18 accounted an asset in the following
table) :■ —-
Towards
t Dividends— Re-
mo i J > i o Jo'o’ o Prefs - <)rc,s - serves. Deficit.
1924. .£i,632 8 p.c. 4 p.c. = £5,687 £13,145
1925.. 3,902 8,, Nil - 1,192 £2710 10,435
1926. . 20,520 8 „ 10 p.c. = 13,208 7318 3,117
In Sept, last an agreement was arrived’ at
between K.F.B. and Metters, and the trade
war was declared off. Nominal capital was
increased from £250,000 to £370,000. Metters
took up 27,800 of the new shares and 92.200
are under option. There was a re-casting
of the directorate, and control is now in the
hands of the bigger co. Amendments to the
articles provide that
two-thirds of the profits shall be distributed to share-
holders provided that such profits shall have reached
a sum representing at least 10 p.c. on the issued
capital and provided further that no profits in excess
of the sum representing a dividend of 10 p.c. shall
be distributed unless the Board deem it advisable.
That sounds good. The market probably has
the Metters control in mind no less than the
thought of 10 p.c. divs. in its keen desire to
lay hands on the scrip at 275. Seven months
ago buyers were offering at 14s. 9d.
With the cessation of the price war pro-
fits bounded up, although the improvements
and economies in production and largely
increased turnover mentioned in the report
played a handy part. The fact that the co.
reaped the advantage of the changed con-
ditions for less than half the term augurs well
for the future. New capital helped in
improving the balance-sheet position :
1924. 1925. 1926.
Liabilities .. .. .£52,733 £61,427 £37,633
Premises, plant, etc. .. 102,106 106,182 119,459
Stocks 35,729 38,749 43,992
Book debts . . . . 31,174 35,684 42.003
Cash, etc. .. . . 239 280 327
In addition to the new shares taken by
Metters, a few ords. and 1600 prefs. were
issued, capital increasing by £29,425. Good-
will figures in the accounts at £15,000, and,
although a modest sum, it should be wiped
out. At December 81 creditors could see
cover for all outside debt in the book debts
alone. The outlook is full of promise. It
took courage to start a new venture' in the
middle of the war with little more than a
handful of loose change as capital, and
recent developments show that the spirit
of enterprise has not been impaired.
The co. has decided to enter into
the manufacture of electrical ranges and
electrical refrigerators as the next steps in
expansion. K.F.B. management has been
keen since its inception and the new combina-
tion which now forms the board has a flying
start which it may be expected to utilise to
the utmost.
* * * *
The Queensland Meat Export Co., Ltd.,
from the time the original co. was recon-
structed and pastoral properties were trans-
ferred to the Australian Stock Breeders’
Co., Ltd: —
To Re-
Nov., Profits. Dividends. serves. Reserves.
1916. . £82,151 8 p.c. = £52,398 £29,753 £104,753
1917.. 77,561 10 „ „ 65,498 12,063 116,816
1918.. 52,719 8 „ „ 52,398 321 117,137
1919.. ,26,585 Nil 26,585 143,122
1920.. 27,029 6 p.c. = 39,299 131,452
Loss.
1921.. 79,785 Nil 51,667
1922.. 1,610 Nil 50,05-
Profits.
1923.. 3,069 Nil 3,069 53,126
1924.. 1,162 Nil 1,162 54,288
1925.. 26,751 4 p.c. = 26,199 552 54,840
Loss.
1926.. 13,488 Nil 41,352
South American beef controls the United
Kingdom and Continental markets, and, nor-
mally, there is little prospect of any change.
Competition from the Argentine was keen
last year; its quick-maturing types of cattle
of high quality and nearness to the Euro-
pean markets are great advantages. And
there is the important difference in costs of
all kinds: labor in the Argentine is rela-
tively cheap, and industrial troubles rare.
Shareholders have had 10 p.c. in eight years,
but in that period reserves have fallen away
by more than £102,000. Shareholders have
had nothing brilliant from the beginning of
the present co. The prosperity which came
to this and other Australasian meat export-
ers as a result of the Imperial purchases
scheme ceased when the contracts ceased.
Some advantage was derived in 1925 from
the preference granted to Australia by the
British Director of Army Contracts for a
transaction in tinned meat. Last year
drought over a belt of pastoral land added
to the difficulties, operations at the co.’s
two factories being restricted. The lighter
trading was reflected in the accounts:—
192 T. 1923. 1925. 1926.
Creditors .. £221,239 £119,806 £78,653 £21,916
Property, plant,
livestock and
shares in other
cos. . . 500,433 425,798 425,023 438.970
Stock . . 56,029 85,557 109,696 70,005
Stores . . 65,271 . 45,865 34,449 40,553
Debtors & cash 275,874 270,688 245,500 168,716
Investments .. 30,275
The financial position was comfortable. But
the market is dominated by South America,
and heavy shipments from the Argentine
and reported price-cutting between sections
of capital interested in the beef busi-
ness of that country keep prices at
low levels. The chief balance-sheet item
increased over the 12 months by £13.947,
but whether the expansion was in plant,
livestock or investments is not indicated.
Space should have been found in the
report for a few words on the movement.
Big sums are represented by buildings and
plant, and unless provision for wear and tear
lias been sufficient, the position may have
been worse than is disclosed by the accounts.
Allowing for the portion of the £438,970
represented by livestock and other assets, the
amount does not appear to overstate the
value of the co.’s two big meatworks. As
against that, of course, their present earning
capacity is illustrated by the profits-and
losses—shown in the introductory table T ‘
present Q.M.E. may yet duplicate the 'nrhs-
penty of the old co. Those who can fix th *
( , at ® .F. U ,?° well - , TI 'e market considers
that it isn t near at hand; holders are will
mg to quit at 7s.
* * *
Richardson and Wrench, Ltd. (Sydney)
property auctioneers, subdivisionists valua-
tors, etc.: —-
n „ .. , Written To Re Re-
Dec., Profits. Dividends. Off. serves serves
1 1 » 1 7 6 " 7 p.c. = £984 £29 18 £n,846
1917.. 6,071 i ~ 4.200 1114 1257 lion
1918.. 8.2(3 8 ~ ~ 5,345 1452 1476 14 079
1919.. 14,883 12* „ „ 7,743 1465 5675 19 75,
1920.. 21,299 274 „ ~16,071 3735 -
1921.. 8,147 10 „ „ 6,955 4110 _ ,53,3
1922.. 14.394 17 „ ~ 11,840 2962 1492,
Capital returned (ss. per share) £47410’
1923.. 18,607 21J p.C.=12,554 2096 3957’ 18 878
1924.. 16,296 20 „ „ 10,474 5834 irj,..
1925.. 14,307 265„ ~ 13,985 3070 igTir
1926.. 19,195 281,, ~ 14,859 2994 1342 17,460
A handsome profit and a handsome div
And the basis of the opulence is the policy
of bloat which lias dragged over one-sixth of
Australia’s population of six millions into
one city. Last year’s figures of property
sales in Sydney afford a graphic illustration
of the increment in property values which
has resulted from this packing of population
in the capital of the Ma State:—
City. Suburbs.
1918 •• •• £1,000,000 £2,500,000
1919 . . • • 1,150,000 3,200.000
1920 .. .. 3,000,000 4,375,000
1921 .. .. 1,483,515 2,506,827
1922 .. .. 3,000,000 3,500,000
1923 .. .. 1,854.599 4,324,900
1924 .. .. 2,100,000 3,500,000
1925 .. .. 2,400,000 3,750,000
1926 . . . . 7,000,000 3,750,000
Richardson and Wrench headed the list with
sales aggregating f 1.693,445. In addition,
the co. sold £422,300 worth of sras shares.
In the circumstances the record dimensions
of gross earnings were to be expected:—
1917 .. £15,683 1922 .. £31,425
1918 .. 20,021 1923 .. 36,250
1919 .. 27,656 1924 .. 33,567
1920 . . 36,690 1925 . . 38,565
1921 . . 25,369 1926 . . 42,795
Capital is x 52,444 in 69,925 fully-paid shares
of 15s. each. In 1923, ss. per share was
returned and the process could be repeated
to-day without straining things. Finances
at December 31 were very comfortable: —
1921. 1923. 1925. 1926.
Capital .. .. £69,650 £52,369 £52,444 £52,444
Liabilities.. .. 20,424 27,927 45,930 39,311
Advances .. . . 71,810 50,195 49,952 43,410
Book debts .. 1,972 3,192 6,509 6,992
Cash, etc 31,851 47,946 63,833 63,964
Odds and ends . . 3,222 4,823 4,038 4,799
Cash alone more than covered all outside
debt. Allowing cover for liabilities and
the final div. and bonus, net assets were
equal to 20s. per 15s. share. It seems most
unlikely that the present year will equal the
last remarkable 12 months, although big sales
have already been recorded. However, earn-
ings are not likely to slip back to the extent
that shareholders would be disappointed with
the amount available for distribution. Not
that they should worry: in the past four
years they have received 96i p.c. in divs.
* * * *
The Greater J. D. Williams Amuse-
ment Co. (Sydney) :
To Re- Nominal
Dec., Profit. Dividends. serves. Reserves.
1916. . £11,871 41 p.c. = £8,287 £3,584 £56,295
1917.. 11,606 5 „ „ 9,025 2,581 58,876
1918.. 7,450 21 „ „ 4,513 2,937 61,813
1919.. 877 3J „ „ 6,769 55,921
1920.. 18,764 10 „ „ 18,051 713 56,634
1921.. 22,394 5 „ „ 9,025 13,369 70,003
1922.. 7,101 6£ „ „ 11,282 65,822
1923.. 7,142 6-i „ „ 11,282 61,682
1924.. 20,369 10 „ ~18,051 2,318 64,000
1925.. 17,712 10 „ „ 15,051 63,601
1926.. 17,426 10 ~ „ 18,051 63,036
Four of the past five divs. have not been
earned, according to the published figures,
and there is no reason to suspect that any-
thing substantial has been stowed away. On
this occasion, income was £6OO-odd greater
than that of the previous year, but outgo
mopped up the improvement plus a further
£3OO. Net rentals and interest were about
the average of recent years, and £10,725 was
received in divs. from the holdings in Aus-
tralasian Films and Union Theatres, as
against £9750 for the preceding 12 months.
Greater J. D. Williams, West’s, Spencer’s and
Taits’ are partners in the amalgamation, but
despite their strong hold on the hiring busi
ness and the advantages that gives them for
their own theatres, returns from the begin-
ning have been poor and irregular. Some-
body lias made huge profits out of the
picture business, but it hasn’t been this
co. —or the other parties to the arrangement.
It's a nice riddle. Probably some Yankees in
Hollywood can supply the answer. Improve-
ment has been shown in the past three years,
but although 10 p.e. has been handed out
the return from the shareholdings—£97,doo
in each of Union Theatres and Australasian
Films and £4500 in other cos. —has been
meagre, last year’s improved figure being
equal to only 5,4 p.c. The management must
either cut exes, or increased divs. must coma


THE CHOICE OF
INVESTMENTS
HOW TO PICK THEM.
See
"'WildCat' Monthly"
for February.
Available at all principal
Newsagents, or direct from
“The Bulletin” Offices,
Sydney and Melbourne,
Price 2/-
We stock -)- GF -J- Malleable Fittings to suit
every requirement, and as there are over 7500
varieties to choose from, we can accommodate am'
trade. For water, steam or gas. Will not split or
crack, and are correct in every detail. Obtainable
fiom William Adams & Co., Ltd., Sole Agents,
Sydney, Newcastle, Melbourne, Brisbane, Adelaide,
Fertl). —Advt.
The indestructibility of wood piping when used
for fluid conveyance is illustrated practically b.y the
unearthing, in England and in America, of hollow
logs used as conduits over 100 yeai's ago. These
pipes were found to be in almost perfect condition.
Pioneer Wood Pipe, made in Australia, is more
quickly and economically freighted, transported and
installed than metal pipe, will not rust or corrode,
and costs practically nothing to maintain throughout
a lifetime of trouble-free service. The Australian
Wood Pipe Co., Ltd., Burns Bay Road, Lane Cove,
N.S.W.— Advt.
* * * *
WIRE ROPES—AUSTRALIAN MADE—Prices and
particulars from Bullivants’ Australian Co., Ltd.,
331-333 Kent Street, Sydney; B. K. Morton Pro-
prietary', Ltd., 85 Clarence Street. Sydney; J. R.
Reid and Sons, 401-403 Kent Street, Sydney, Success-
fully used all over the Commonwealth for all pur-
poses.-— Advt.
Inventors. —Have you an idea worth patenting?
Griffith & Hassel, Patent Attorney, 77 Castlercagh
Street, Sydney, obtain Commonwealth and foreign
patents.— Advt.
* * * »
IDEAS —Commonwealth and Foreign Patents
obtained. Collison & Co., 483 Collins Street, Mel-
bourne. and Adelaide. Thirty veais’ practice. Write
us for Inventors’ Guide. — Advt.
# * * •
Leplastriers’ Concrete Mixers —of all necessary
slices —are designed and manufactured in Australia by
expert engineers. Apply Goldsbrough House, Sydney;
Collins House, Melbourne; 164 Edward Street, Bris-
bane ; or 21 Morphett Street, Adelaide. — Advt.
The Mutual Life and Citizens’
Assurance Co. Ltd.
The
Probate Contract.
THE INVESTMENT TO MEET THE
INEVITABLE DEATH DUTIES.
As a man’s wealth accumulates he
should assist his executors by taking out
one of these contracts. They are issued
on a basis highly profltable to his estate,
besides providing the necessary cash to
meet the very substantial Death Duties
(State or Federal) on deceased estates,
without disturbing existing investments,
or necessitating heavy borrowing for
the purpose, a course which is bound
to involve a lengthy delay in the distri-
bution of the estate to the Legatees.
JOHN J. GARVAN,
Managing Director.
r/ son
FINEST DRY GIN
& OLD TOM
U_ Swift & Coin puny Ltd.. Australasian Agents. 26 30 Clarence St.. Sydney T] 1
DT
ARE YOU AWARE
THVT IT IS NOT NECESSARY FOR YOU TO IMPOSE UPON YOUR FRIENDS THE ARDUOUS
DUTIES OF EXECUTOR OR TRUSTEE?
PERPETUAL TRUSTEE COMPANY (LIMITED)
Was specially incorporated by Act of Parliament to undertake these duties, and its Wide Experi-
ence and Reasonable Charges ensure for Estates entrusted to it Specialised Administration at a
Minimum of Expense. The value of Estates and Agencies at present under the Company’s care
exceeds £28,000,000, which is evidence of the confidence in which it is held by the Public.
DIRECTORS.
Hon. R. J. BLACK, M.L.C. (Chairman) Dr. R. L. FAITIIFULL
T H KELLY WALTER T. BRUNTON
Sir SAMUEL HORDERN HERBERT R. LYSAGHT
Managing Director: R. COPLAND LETHBRIDGE.
RESERVE FUND £105,000
SUBSCRIBED CAPITAL £1,000,000
PAID-UP CAPITAL £160,000
Write or call for Booklet.
38-39 HUNTER STREET, SYDNEY.
H. V. DOUGLASS, Manager.
Queensland
Insurance Co.
Ltd.
Head Office:
Pitt & Bridge Streets,
Sydney.
The Largest
Australian Company
transacting
Fire, Marine, Personal
Accident and Sickness,
Burglary, Live Stock,
Public Risk, Boiler Ex-
plosion, Workers’ Com-
pensation, etc., etc.
in. otherwise 10 p.c. distributions will be
marked as excessive liberality. "1 he present
position is satisfactory,” says the report,
but the market isn’t convinced. Paul
capital is *180.506 in £1 shares, and here
are assets exclusive of the amalgamation
paper:—
1924. 1925. 1926.
Freeholds, leaseholds . . £34,442 £34,442 £35,095
Advances to combine cos. 40,986 32,551 33,896
Furniture, etc. .. 3,106 2,760 134
Cash, book debts . . 3,810 11,838 10,031
£82,344 £81,591 £80,256
Liabilities are moderate: —
1924. 1925. 1926.
Mortgage .. .. £lB,OOO £lB,OOO £lB,OOO
Debentures . . . . 4,800 4,800 4,800
Sundry creditors .. 1,427 1,400 197
£24,227 £24,200 £22,997
The market considers 235. 6d. a fair price
for the scrip.
* * * *
N. S. Wales produced minerals worth
f 10,941,906 during' 1!)26, or £167,085 below
the record year 1025. The figure brings
the aggregate mineral output of the State
to £423,000,000, of which £160.300,000 is
credited to coal from a production of
322,035,746 tons. During the year just
closed 10,855,766 tons of coal were dug, the
pit-mouth value of which was_ £9,436,520.
These figures give a decrease of 540,000 tons,
but a money increase of £134,000. Silver-
lead and zinc production aggregated
£128,869,966 to the end of 1926, when
£5.759.541 worth was mined, against
£6,342,992 for 1925—a value decrease of
£553,451 from a larger tonnage, indicating
the pronounced drop in lead and spelter
prices during the term. As the treatment
of the Broken Hill ores and concentrates is
carried out in other States, the value of the
N. S. Wales silver-lead mines accruing to
the Commonwealth is set down at £8,322,362
for the year. Tin to the aggregate value
of £13,678,138 was obtained to the end of
last year. Tiugha contributed £91,534 for
1926. Emmaville £7*,423, and New Eng-
land £157,476 from dredging and sluicing.
Lode tin gave £57,760 from Ardlethan and
£27,525 from Torringbar. Metallic tin for
the year amounted to 1134 tons worth
£326,474, against 957 tons worth £250,944
in 1925.
* * * *
At last shareholders in Flagstone(N.S.W.)
have been introduced to expert reports on the
show by W. A. Waddell, C. Lonsdale Smith
and C. H. Cropper. Waddell wrote his
impressions on October 29, Smith on Novem-
ber 3 and Cropper on February 3. Placed in
comparison with the boom stuff in the pros-
pectus and the progress reports of the late
manager, it will be realised with what re-
straint the Wild Cat conducted its adverse
criticisms. Instead of No. 1 tunnel having
■‘26in. good grade ore being mined for the
full width of the lode,” and No. 2 tunnel “a
16in. face producing highly payable ore for
the full width,” holders are advised by expert
opinion that the Flagstone lease is a big dyke
with joint veins, small pipe veins, and
impregnations in a quartz-felspar porphyry.
Cropper says nothing about 26in. of high-
grade ore, but, on the contrary, observes that
'until some larger ore body is met with that will
supply the bulk of the milling ore required
over a period of 12 to 18 months, it will be
necessary to continue probing and working a
number of faces scattered on the surface and
detrimental to low handling costs for the
total quantity of ore broken.” Waddell re-
marks. laconically: “Of course, with a low
percentage of tin in the stone to begin with,
you cannot expect a high assay value in the
concentrates.” and he sums up definitely that
“the Flagstone is a big low-grade proposi-
tion that looks as if it .would develop into
a very big and valuable, even if low-grade,
property.” And yet on July 10, Mackenzie
had reported to the board that in No. 2
tunnel “there is a foot of ore in the face
that will average 15 p.c. oxide per ton,”
adding that this face had only been opened
up for five feet, and would be shot down for
the full width the next week. After that came
the regular mine bulletins about 16in. of
highly payable ore in this, and 23in. of simi-
lar stuff in the other tunnel.
* * * *
Queensland Tin, Ivoorboora and Gurrum-
bah (N.Q.), had its large dam wrecked by
the recent cyclonic storm, when water fell
by the foot. All roads thereabout were ren-
dered impassable, and operations at the
mines had to be suspended. Negotiations
for sale to a New- York group have, how-
ever, been continued, and manager Fred
Brown is to go across in the interests of the
co. A circular states that “there is more
than a possibility of the sale being effected
on very satisfactory terms to shareholders.”
* * * *
Carl Davis is due at Mt. Isa this week.
Titcomb and Goeppert, with the assistance
of a Queensland Geological Survey officer for
sampling work, have demolished the core
from the Rio Grande bore, and completed
the surface sampling. This has been awk-
ward under conditions of intense heat,
piagues of flies, and, latterly, drenching rains.
The Grande bore stopped at a depth of
537 ft. after going through a mineralised
zone between 317 ft. and 489 ft., equalling a
true thickness of about 110 ft. (the dip is
around GOdeg.). Five sulphide lodes were
struck in this belt, totalling a true thick-
ness of 43ft. These were all ground up
by Titcomb and sent to the laboratory. The
assay values show increases with depth, the
richest ore, worth £l3 a ton, coining from
the 6ft. lode at 480 ft. with 27 p.c. lead,
340 z. silver and over 4 p.c. zinc. It would
almost certainly be wrong to interpret the
returns as showing that the ore generally gets
richer with depth—the different values are due
to the density of the galena in the gangue.
The various galena cores were all primary
sulphide. The best lode in the bunch is
14ft. at the 360 ft. mark, which averages
about £lO a ton, but it is well followed by
13ft. at 418 ft., which will run over £6 a
ton. The bottom lode can scarcely be
neglected. It can be used for grading-up
lower-value ores. No. 2 bore is on the way
down to the Black Star lode, in the region
of 700 ft. The Star looks good to 1000 ft., at
least, in view of the development work so
far done, plus the Isa Prop.'s bore. The
American engineers are sitting tight and let-
ting no secrets out.
* * * *
One of Theodore's Upper Burnett railways
has apparently run into an unsuspected coal-
field with high-class gas-fuel. This is the
Monto extension towards Many Peaks. A
number of boreholes have passed through
probably five or six seams, ranging from 3ft.
to 15ft. thick. A little prospecting work has
now been started, and a shaft alongside the
railway has passed through 7ft. of coal. As
it is about 130 miles from the nearest coal-
field it will probably feed the Burnett lines.
A mining inspection is shortly to be carried
out.
* * * *
At the Great Northern, Herberton (N.Q.),
the Gully workings were flooded by the
cyclonic deluge, and all prospecting work
there has been abandoned. In the eastern
lode workings, around No. 3 level, a little
stoping is going on with fair-grade ore show-
ing. Anything like a leader is hungrily pur-
sued in the search for further pipes.
* * * *
A word from Dr. Jensen regarding a recent
“Wild Cat” reference to some N.Q. mining
propositions:—
J suggest that the simile would be greatly im-
proved if, instead of being described as “swans,”
“swan’s eggs” was substituted. A favorable report
by a geologist, right or wrong, does not make a
mine. Let me carry the simile further: A swan’s
eggs cannot be hatched without adequate attention.
Money is essential for mining development, and
steady, call-paying investors are more likely to reap
a return than those who prefer to do their mining
in flutters on the Stock Exchanges.
* * * *
Bendigo is so down and out that all wonder
how Victor Leggo, of the Hercules andlronbark,
maintains liis optimism. The shows were
plums of Bendigo Amalgamated, and are about
the only survivors of that concern. Hercules
ground always has been irregular. To-day,
because of some gold showing at 1380 ft. on
the eastern wall, it flatters itself once more.
The Bendigo hope is that the gold will be
followed up on the eastern wall at 1320 ft.,
as a fair-sized block of virgin country there
remains to be stoped. At Ironbark no great
revival is talked of, but work is to go on for
six months to see if gold carries into the mine
in the extension of the big formation worked
by Hercules next door. Ironbark should get
the reef at 1237 ft., and as it is a big make
of stone in the Hercules, 20ft. to 30ft. wide,
the gamble of testing it should be faced.
New Oswald mine, Maldon (Vic.), is prov-
ing itself the most consistent and longest-
lived goldmine in Australia. How much gold
old Bob Oswald took out of it and how
much has been produced since he died is
probably unknown. It could be reckoned
in tons. At 600 ft. there is a payable
reef 3ft. to 6ft. wide in the main cross-
cut In a winze 20ft. north of that cross-
cut the reef is 10ft. wide, and therefore too
big to work from a winze. The last two
shots disclosed payable gold in a big body.
From the 700 ft. level it is proposed to put
up a rise to go after this formation. Here
is the treatment record: Crushed 245 tons
for 94|oz. gold ; sands’ contents assay 170 z.;
concentrates assay lOoz. and 260 tons cyan-
ided gave 3610 z. gold. That report appeared
alongside Hercules, Bendigo, 274 tons for
165|0z.; New Red, White and Blue, Ben-
digo, 257 tons for 81oz.; and South New
Moon, Bendigo, tributors, 50 tons for 30 Or/.
Four mines yielding gold in the once great
gold State, But once it is taken out it is
gone for ever. That is a fact which the
West sometimes forgets.
* * * *
The Adelaide Oil Exploration Co. has
done no active searching for oil in Australia
for some time, because it has been busy
selling shares in Chilian Oilfields, Ltd., capi-
tal £300,000. The object of that co. is to
drill an area in Chile, a country where so
far no petroleum has been produced : but that
doesn’t seem to matter. J. T. Moate, the
promoter, has go"e to London to buy plant.
£ * * *
“O.B.” (W.A.) : Paringa co., mentioned
in B. 10/2/’27 as a likely maker of
briquettes and other things at Morwell, is
a much-travelled concern. Disappointed at
not striking a bonanza, it left Ivalgoorlie
years ago, but, after unprofitable operations
in other parts of the world, it returned to
the West and resumed work on its old show.
A little later it issued some encouraging
reports, and later still got exemption on the
plea that under present conditions it couidn t
mine at a profit. Its other assets include
an interest in a Rhodesian “golden quarry,
an option on a share in a Bolivian rubber
trading co. and shares in “good dividend-
paying South African mines. 'Llie co. lias
been twice reconstructed, and last year issued
380,000 Is. shares, giving £lO,OOO additional
working capital. # #
Westralia has now produced nearly
£7,000,000 wortn of minerals other than gold,
nearly half of it copper and tin, and the
balance mostly lead and coal. At present
copper-mining is dead, and the quantity ot
tin produced is very little. Lead-mining, con-
fined to Northampton, and coal restricted to
Collie is active but in a small way. A little
asbestos, mica and tantalite is also being got
at Pilbara and other parts of the Nor^-West.
There is still trouble in New Guinea over
the original Edie Creek dredging and sluic-
ing leases. As a result of protests from the
Miners’ Association, the leases were re-sur-
veyed, and found to be in excess of the legal
area. An order was accordingly made tor
the cutting out of 18 chains from Chisholm s
lease, seven chains from Royals,'and nine
chains from Glasson’s. The cut-out ground
was divided into seven claims ot x
100 ft., and the warden was told to allot these
bv ballot on March 18. Rut the excess area
oil Glasson’s claim has already been worked
out, and is worthless, so the .Miners’ Associ-
ation is asking for an equivalent area ot
untouched ground. Royal has offered 34
chains of his lease, but as lie refused the
right to carry the necessary tail race to work
this block through his remaining area, there
was another deadlock. The leaseholders are
insistent that the miners must accept the 34
chains offered in lieu ; otherwise the ground
will be held up with a demand for a fresh
survey, and further delay is the last thing
the miners want. It is a beautiful mix-up.
* * * *
Guinea Gold, the New Guinea sluicing
show which has several leases on the Bulolo
and Karauga Greek, is making good progress.
C. J. Levien, one of the first to follow
“Shark-eye” Park—so-called to distinguish
him from “Red Bill” Park—on to the new
field, forwards a satisfactory progress report.
The sawmill is up; two faces have been
opened, and ground sluicing lias been begun.
The co.’s aerodrome is nearing completion
and its ’plane is being assembled at Rabaul.
Native labor is experiencing few health
troubles, and, with a low river, prospects are
cheerful. The co. has 26,933 fully-paid shares
of £1 each issued out of its authorised capi-
tal of £50,000. It proposes to offer 5050
more £1 shares at a premium of 20s. The
original issue was quoted last week at
83s. The properties lie in the broad and
open Bulolo Valley, the first and most easily
reached step of the gold-bearing country. But
even then it is some thousands of feet above
sea level, and even aeroplane transport will
not prevent a high overhead. It will take a
lot of the low-priced gold to pay dividends
on that share issue at a 20s. premium, to say
nothing of a satisfactory return to those
who have paid over £4 per share.
* * * *
Oriental Tin, with an option on the
Annan River (N.Q.), has secured H. N.
Millar, engineer for Tasmanian Tin, to test
the area and an additional 300 acres.
If all goes well, a working co. is to
be formed, Tasmanian and Oriental Tin
having each equal rights in taking up
shares, subject to the terms finally made
with the vendors.
* * * #
Jelapang (capital £130,000) will commence
dredging about the middle of this year, and
will be the first of Percy Penman’s Tanali
Biji cos. to produce. The pontoon is already
floated, and the superstructure is being
assembled. With its 9c. ft. buckets, a yard-
age of 130,000 monthly should be put
through. If tin recoveries stand up to Pen-
man’s valuation, shareholders are justified
in looking for divs. before the end of the
year.
* * * »
The second Tanali Biji co.—Serendali Tin,
Ltd. —has lost no time. Incorporated in
December, it has already ordered its dredge
—which is to carry 12 c. ft. buckets. If it
lives up to this opening speed the market
will be surprised.
* * * *
Larut Tin Fields, Ltd. (capital £000,000).
which absorbed Larut, Kota, Tupai and
Settlements, contemplates installing another
modern dredge. Managing-director John
Cameron is considering 14 c. ft. buckets to
dig 200,000 yards monthly. Taiping is ideal
digging country, and the co. has plenty of
money for a little engineering imagination.
* * * *
Asam Kumbang has had a bad venr with
dredge stoppages and other delays. Recoveries
have been short of the boring estimates, too,
but since that is not unusual there is little
need to worrv. The good price of tin has
enabled Asam to distribute Bs. a share. Eor
the current year only 7s. is anticipated.
People paid 595. for the scrip last week.
Buying the Tanjong rubber estate means
that for £lB,BOO Kuala Lumpur adds 180
acres to its old tin patch, thereby giving the
Ambrose Pratt crowd a longer life at the
board table. It is a sound business deal, for
the net rubber output is worth £2921, so that
cash will be earned until the dredge wants
the ground and, the rubber-trees as firewood.
What the ironmasters want to learn from so
devoted a tariftist as Ambrose Pratt is why
the co. got its new steel bridge of 180,000
c. yds. capacity from Werf Conrad, Ltd., of
Holland. Funds for this equipment come
out of profits and the late issue of 83,400
reserved shares at par. Divs. have been
dropped out half-yearly, but profit and loss
credit at the end of its financial year was
the substantial sum of £39,558, and only
£2140 was owed. On account of the new
plant £39,691 has been paid, and cash in
hand is over £16,000. With the new dredge
and tin at good levels, divs. should flow from
the mine in a nice stream. Although the
old plant is a bit doddery it last year sent
780,616 c.yds. of drift down the sluice-boxes
for 860 tons oxide, the average grade of the
wash being 1.0321 b. a c. yd. As tin oxide
was bringing £l7l a ton, the net average
value of the ground went nearly 19d. a yd.
against all-round costs of 7.576 d. a yd.
-* * * *
Salamoa Goldfields, one of the latest New
Guinea alluvial shows, has published an
interim report. A detailed report is to
follow, with samples of gold, and should
reach Sydney about March 2. The Wild
Cat is reliably informed that the Watut,
on which the Salamoa lease is situated, is the
most inaccessible portion of the field _ yet
located, and that is saying a lot. It is a
tributary of the Markham, which runs into
the sea well north of Salamoa. It is a
nightmare to reach from the Bulolo side,
and so far no access has been found from
the other. As a compensation, the Watut
gold is said to be of much better quality
than that from the Bulolo and its tribu-
taries, running as high as £3 15s. per ounce.
* * * *


THE COMMUNIST VOLUNTEERS.
"The latest idea of the Pro-yellow Sydney Trades and Labor Council is a ‘Labor Volunteer Army,’ which is ‘to maintain the right of assemblage,’ etc. Units will elect leaders, deputy-leaders and correspondents. Divisions may be formed of several
units, with divisional leaders elected from tile combined unit leaders. And there will be a general staff.”
GENERAL IDIOCY: “It’s a glorious fight against militarism, comrades and just think of the titles we’re giving ourselves.”


\Vheivyouve tried the
re si-you'll smoke the best
20 for l r 6
ARDATH TOBACCO COe LTDt LONDON.
CIGARETTES
SOCIETY
"and it's
printed with
WIMBLE'S INKS”
THE LOVE PENANCE.
TIM: “But what proof have I that you return my love, darling?”
BESS: “Why, I’ve just given you eight dances!”
TIM : “Y-e-s, hut that’s no sort of proof.”
BESS : “Oh, you wouldn’t say that if you knew how you danced.”
“Wang”: -Victoria’s oldest port, leaving
out Portland and Geelong, is Williamstown;
with its night-watchmen and small-freighter
men, it would form a setting for a W. W.
Jacobs story. The principal street is fronted
on one side by dockyards, Harbor Trust
depots, offices and piers, most of them sadly
in need of the renovator —or the wrecker.
The other side is flanked by old-fashioned
and time-worn shops, with here and there
a modern building. Every few yards is a
pub; before the Licensing Reduction Board
got to work there were more pubs than
shops in the main street. The footpaths
suggest an early Dickens novel. Alongside
the cricket g'round are the remains of the
old forts, guarded by a dilapidated picket-
fence and masses of boxthorn bushes; a
notice still lingers on the crazy fence that
no one is allowed at the forts except on
duty. If Jacobs ever comes to Australia
he certainly should be taken to Williams-
town. #
“Harold O’Hardupp” : In another year St.
Mary’s Cathedral, Sydney, will be finished
right down to the imposing approaches facing
Boomerang-street—April, 1928, is the date
fixed for the completion of a work which has
met with three setbacks by fire and lias occu-
pied the attention of four R.C. archbishops.
Folding spent £40.000 on the foundations,
which would have cost at least five times as
much to-day; Vaughan’s contribution was
£60,000; Moran added £150,000 to the funds,
and Kelly has collected £200,000 and spent
it. The big building is practically debt-free.
The site for the cathedral, 2 acres 1 rood and
5 perches, was granted in 1821 —it was then
described as “away in the bush” —and on
November 1 of that year Macciuarie laid the
foundation-stone of “St. Mary’s Chapel” ; he
likewise gave 20 guineas to the building
fund. That building, finished 29 years later,
was burnt down in 1865.
* * * *
“Finn” : The status of a certain class of
post office in Vic. is determined by the num-
ber of outgoing letters during two months.
So during that time the p.m. writes a huge
budget of letters, and urges his friends to
do the same. One country p.m.,_ not wish-
ing to make the business too one-sided, wrote
to most of the correspondence colleges in
Melbourne, submitting the names of all the
adult residents of the township as possible
students. The principals took the bait, and
bombarded the townies with attractive
brochures. They must have, wondered at the
almost entire absence of result.
* * * *
“Wang”: Our local scissors-grinder, who
is a good deal of a favorite despite his bibu-
lous propensities, pleaded guilty to a charge
of drunkenness at
a Melbourne sub-
urban police court
the other morning,
and the Bench,
composed of local
tradesmen. 1 t him
down with a five-
bob fine. The de-
fendant, who evi-
dently regards him-
self as a privileged
person, announced
that he didn’t have
a razoo, and sug-
gested that the
Bench should allow
him to go out and
earn the amount of
the fine. Permis-
sion having been
given, he was heard
presently trundling
his machine along
the stre e t, and
blithely importu-
ning custom. In an
hour or two he was
back with the five
bob. Later three
Jay Peas reached
their various
homes, to be
met with inquiries
whether the poor
old man had paid
up. It transpired
that he had -waited
on each housewife
with the tale that
he had been parti-
cularly sent there
by her husband to
earn something to
pay his fine, and
had scored well at
eacli place.
* *
“A.M.J.”: Does
anyone know the
origin of the belief
that wearing a
metal ring will cure
rheumatism ? Ben-
venuto Cellini men-
tions that such
metal rings were
worn in England in
his day, 400 years
.ago. Until I read this I thought the theory
of the thing was connected with the generat-
ing of an electric current.
* * * *
“C.Q.” Some forms of philately are a
disease where they are not mere crank forms
of money-making. Vic. post-office officials
were approached not long ago by a wild-
eyed collector of rare issues, with a request
to scrap a certain instrument which, owing
to a slight defect, reproduces an unimpor-
tant idiosyncrasy on all the stamps it
punches. The officials refused the insidious
request. So another attempt to create a mon-
opoly in a rare and expensive edition was
frustrated.
“L. 1.”: English schoolboys spend their
leisure in ways undreamt of by Stalky and
Co. A boarder in an academy in the Cold
Land is reported to have been amusing him-
AND THEN?
“They say skirts will have gone altogether in another ten years.”
“It seems a very little way to go in the time, old girl?"
self talking' with one of the Scandinavian
whalers at present lolloping about the
Antarctic. The other day, being unable to
get in touch with it, he tuned-in to a radio
pal in the Speck.
* * * *
“Ibn el Issor”: To an old service man
tnere is an unpleasant flavor in the cabled
announcement that the Suffolk Regiment jhas
taken over the quarters of an unidentified
Punjabi regiment at Shanghai, the latter
going back to Hongkong, where there is a
strong British garrison. Whether there
is any connection between the transfer
and the reports that the Chinese Nationalists
were plying what the daily papers call
“Hindu” regiments in Shanghai with anti-
British propaganda has yet to be seen.
Nevertheless, the sudden replacement of
forces with a first-class military record under
the Sirkar is ominous. The Singapore
mutiny during the Great War gave tlie high
reputation of Indian native troops the biggest
set-back since the Great Mutiny. If the writer
were to chose, he would take a Mohammedan
regiment before Sikh, Dogra or Hindu.
As Kipling has put it, the Mohammedan will
eat and drink with you, and smoke your
tobacco; but the Hindu, good fellow as he
often was, is fenced about by too many
strange observances.
* * * *
“Glen A.”: Middle Harbor suspension
bridge, which was preferred to the Gap by a
recent Sydney suicide, was built by a syn-
dicate over 35 years ago, the idea being to
sell the sandstone ridges on the northern
side of it as residential sites. Then the land
boom burst, and for some years the owners
of the bridge earned a pittance by charging
curious visitors 3d. for the wild joy ot
walking upon it. An attempt was made
to sell it to the N. S. Wales Government
for some fabulous sun. Subsequently the
proprietors came down to £6OOO, but there
was nothing doing. In 1912 the Government
got the bridge for nothing, beyond an under-
taking to supply the district with a tram
service.
* * * *
“Nikko” : “F.P.J.’s” husband (B. 24/2/’27)
reminds me of Biliks, who was always pro-
phesying trouble for Mrs. Biliks owing to
her habit of walking round town with her
handbag open. So when one day he beheld
her in her usual black coat and pink
hat standing outside Farmer’s immersed m
fashion study, and with the usual open
handbag, he decided to teach her a lesson.
Dexterously lie extracted her small purse and
transferred it to his own pocket, slipping
away unobserved. He waited that night 101
her to report her loss, but about 10 P-m. ne
could stand the strain no longer, and intro-
duced the subject of purses. After a bnet
argument Mrs. Biliks went to get liers to
prove her point, and to Binks’s horror duly
returned with it. “Heavens !” said that un-
happy strategist as lie produced his dupli-
cate, “what woman’s pocket did I pick:
* * * *
“Retired Volt” : ,Casualness in the hand-
ling of electricity isn’t confined to Papuan
Brown Brother. I had occasion the other
evening to send an SOS to the local Vic.
council to repair a defect in my installation.
A gawky immigrant arrived, and proceeded
to locate the live wires by bridging all bare
points he could find with a screwdriver while
standing on the topmost rung of a tall fire-
men’s ladder. After a display of fireworks
which nearly knocked him off his lofty perch,
I begged him to desist. He told me he had
only been an “electrician” for a fortnight,
and that his previous experience had been
acquired behind a wlielk-stall in Whitechapel.
Some day he will be found hanging like a
well-grilled steak to a high-power trans-
mission pole, and the coroner will return the
usual verdict.
* * * *
“Eclioe” : “Crojack” (B. 17/2/’27) tells us
that “when the Quetta sank in 1890 off Cairns,
two of the passengers, Miss Alice Wickham
and Miss Stacey, were in the water 18 and
26 hours respectively before the search
steamer found them.” “Crojack” has the
date right, but little else. The Quetta cer-
tainly sank off Cairns —hut it was nearly
1000 - miles off. An uncharted rock in Torres
Strait was the scene and cause of the dis-
aster. The two survivors were Miss Alice
Nicklin and Miss Emily Lacey; the former
was in the water for 23 hours and the latter
for 35. No search-boats were sent out, for
no one anticipated there would be any sur-
vivors. Miss Nicklin was rescued by the
sailing-vessel Pride of Perth, and Miss
Lacey was picked up by the steamer Alba-
tross. It was a marvellous feat of endur-
ance for both girls; Miss Lacey was only
15 years of age.
* * * *
“Stcllsby” : Dr. Marie Stopes stands firm
to her birth-control propaganda, although
she has a bouncing nipper of her own. But,
possibly rather than risk public ridicule by
presenting her husband with another pledge
of affection, she recently advertised in the
London papers for “a baby boy, three years
old, healthy, good disposition, to bring up
with my own.” These women!
MOSMAN BAY.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The poniards of the street-lamps stab the bay,
Wounding the placid moat,
And Musgrave Point is like a castle fey
In dim romance afloat.
Grim battlements with bale-fires all alight
Menace the nearer shore;
Or are they beasts with eyes that pierce the night?
Listen ! Taronga’s roar!
On such a night the Sirius fluttered in
To thankful loveliness—
Such quiet beauty in the end to jvin,
Peace after bitter stress !
And now this night recaptures all the calm
Of that first anchorage;
About the beaches breathes the solemn balm
Of History’s first page.
Brown fishermen are singing as they sweep
Their nets across the night,
With pearly plashes and the silver leap
Of fishes in affright.
The clunk of rowlocks trembles faint and far —
I'nseen the distant boat;
Two lovers musing in their heaven are
In Paradise afloat.
Like some tired sea-bird from the oeean blown,
A battered tramp profanes
The solitude that echoes with the groan
And screech of anchor chains.
And in the dawn, when all the waters seem
Some visitant to wait,
The tramp has cast her anchor in a dream
Outside my garden gate!
N.S.W.
ARTHUR H. ADAMS.


“Pat Busliie”: “Who was within hearing
at the time?” was a question put by the
magistrate to the apprehending constable in
a language case heard at Newcastle (N.S.W.)
police court. The reply came clearly and
slowly: “Another constable, a woman, a
dog and two motor-cars.”
* * * *
“Warihi”: Maoriland has the champion
shark-catcher. While Zane Grey and other
Yanks are using shiploads of fancy gear
to catch mako and swordfish, this casual
angler walked into the tide near Gisborne
and fed stingray bait to a pack of sea-wolves.
When the biggest came within range he
poked a harpoon into him and made for the
shore; a party on the beach
hauled on the harpoon rope and
landed a 4001 b. prize. The
champion’s name is Charles
Fern's, and his action was
merely taken to abate the shark
nuisance that was spoiling good
bathing for beach habitues.
* * *
“Gustave G.”: Enterprising
car-owners are beginning to
decorate the hindquarters of
their machines with something
more ornate than is conveyed
in the mere word “Stop.” “If
you can read this you’re too
■dam’ close” has a certain
piquancy of its own. and I
have already noticed “If I stop,
can you?” on three different
cars. “Look out —four of ’em”
is another deterrent notice, and
“Keep clear —air brakes” adorns
the stern of a ’bus. “A blank
has just passed you” is said
to have been prohibited by the
Sydney traffic police. But a
Waverley (Sydney) motorist
strikes the most arresting note
of all. On the spare-tyre cover
at the rear of his car lie has
lettered : “Dynamite inside. If
you hit me I’ll see you in Hell.”
* * *
“Fore and Aft”: The Glou-
cesters, mentioned in the Shang-
hai landing (B. 24/2/’27), have
one distinction no other regi-
ment can claim —the right to
wear the regimental badge,
which is, in this case, the Egyp-
tian Sphinx, on front and rear
of helmets and caps. In the old
days the regimental number
was thus worn, and when the
linked battalion system was in-
troduced in the 1870’s, the
badge was substituted. The
right was won in 1804 at Alex-
andria, where Ralph Aber-
crombie defeated the French
and Egyptian forces. Surprised
in line by the Mameluke cav-
alry, the “fore and aft” files
turned back to back, and beat
off the attack, facing front and
rear. This feat was repeated
by the Black Watch in tin'
cornfields at Quatre Bras, and
at Balaclava by the regiment
now known as the Argyll and
Sutherland Highlanders, which
last the Light Horse in Sinai
and Palestine knew as the “Wild
and Suffering.” But it was the
Gloucesters who started the
stunt.
* * *
“Wang” : Many of the water-
iTinins in Melbourne and the
older suburbs have been down
for 60 years or more; often
they crack up slowly, but occa-
sionally one gives up its job
with disconcerting and damag-
ing suddenness. Not long ago
I saw one side of Flinders-
street, for a space of about 100
yards, moving up and down as
though a giant underneath was
breathing hard, while water
gushed out from half a dozen
spots, and a torrent swept along
the roadway, carrying wood-
blocks and lumps of asphalt
before it. The other day an
amorous couple, seated in a
motor-car parked on one side
of a street, suddenly heard a
roar beneath them; the next
instant Lizzie’s tail went up in
the air, and she sailed down
the street on the two front
wheels for 50 yards. A main
had burst right under her. A
week or two' later a 15-ton
steam roller took a nose-dive
into the earth, fortunately with-
out harm to the driver. It had
crashed through on top of a leaking main.
I suppose the authorities are waiting for a
few fatalities before they take action.
* * * *
“Kea”: I was deputed to organise the
reception when a M.L. Governor threw our
up-north village into consternation by the
announcement that he would include us
in his hasty itinerary. Renata Henare was
Northern Maori member then, and home for
recess, so I rode over to invoke his assist-
ance. He assured me that he would be there
with his followers to receive the Governor
and retinue with due ceremony, and I left
hurriedly to arrange for a display of
flags at Blank’s store. Three days
later, when the only members of the recep-
tion committee assembled were the local mis-
sioner and myself, news arrived that the
gubernatorial car had been sighted coming
down a hill seven miles away and was due,
over bush roads, in half an hour. Looking
round wildly. I saw a Ford coming up the
main road, driven by Renata Henare. In
reply to my frenzied shouts, he pulled up.
“Oh. the Governor,” he observed. “By gorry,
I forgot all about him. I came along for
some tobacco. Never mind, don't you worry.
It s all right.” And the Ford disappeared
down the road again in a whirl of dust. I
had half decided to go home and feign illness,
when a brown urchin sped up the road to
say the Governor would be late, as a big
tree had fallen across the road, and the vice-
regals and Maoris were removing it. The
respite saved the situation. Renata Henare
and his followers arrived in force, the mem-
ber’s speech was a noble piece of oratory
which deeply impressed the Governor, and
we ended up with free beer and nose-rub-
bing in approved Maori fashion. The visit-
ors had departed amid cheers when Hone
and Hori detached themselves from tin; crowd
and craved a private talk with me. “ ’Bout
te tree,” said Hori. “Hone cut him down
yesterday, and Renata Henare tell us to trag
him across te road and stop te ivuvnor come
too soon. I flank five shillin’, eh?” I
thought so, willingly.
* * * *
"Strict Veg.” The march of progress, or
whatever it is, is threatening with destruc-
tion one of the most soothing bits of archi-
tecture in Melbourne, the Baptist Church in
Collins-street. on whose Grecian columns the
trees throw pleasant shadows when the elec-
tric lights go on. The block is one of the
“What about a fortnight at
my little week-eiul camp?—
“Forget about strikes!—
“And lockouts—
“And industrial unrest!—
“I’ll just drop in here and let the old
girl know we’re coming.—
“Wife’s a honzer cook.”
She’d got the wire.
DIRECT ACTION AGAIN.
few remaining solid lumps of freehold there-
abouts that hasn’t got its commercial building.
Now, on the rear portion the Victoria
Coffee Palace is to erect on building lease
f1(X),000-worth of bedrooms ; in front, on the
ground floor, the Baptists will re-erect their
church, and above it will tower to the limit
of the regulations offices and rooms for letting
purposes, from which the denomination
should derive a handsome revenue. This
union of commercial and religious enterprise
is a distinctly American innovation. In
London, which abounds with ancient fanes
on sites now fabulously valuable, the struggle
has so far resulted in a victory for senti-
ment. But, then, most of the sects owning the
churches have extensive glebe areas else-
where, whose rents supplement the dwindling
threepences found in the plate on Sunday.
* * * *
“A.M.J.” : Most prohibitionists are strong
churchmen, but they cannot get much back-
ing from the Bible for their cult. The
ancient Hebrews may have known nothing
of ardent spirits, but it is certain that they
held wine in high esteem. In Judges it is
taken joyously for granted as “wine which
clieereth God and man,” and the Psalmist
seems to regard it as one of the prime neces-
saries of life: “Wine that maketh glad the
heart of man, and oil that maketh his face
to shine, and bread which strengtlieneth
man’s heart.” When the dying Jacob be-
stowed his blessing on Judah, he had a vision
of delirious happiness for him: “Binding his
foal into the vine, and his ass’s colt unto
the choice vine; lie washed his garments in
wine, and his clothes in the blood of grapes;
his eyes shall be red with wine.” The con-
demnatory references are almost entirely
directed at excess, as when Isaiah lugubriously
draws attention to the emetic qualities of an
overdose, and Eli basely suspects the pray-
ing Hannah of being slightly “shot.” Besides
grape-juice, there is frequent appreciative
mention of “shekhar” (from which a modern
slang term is possibly derived), but whether
this stimulant was date-wine or barley-beer
remains a moot question.
* * * *
“M.G.S.” : The less hair the more expen-
sive its upkeep, judging by the remarkable
first exhibition of Melbourne’s master hair-
dressers: Many husbands will doubtless be
surprised to learn that plenty of Australian
women spend upwards of £250 a year on
their heads, and that at the ornate shrines
where the solemn rites of henna treatment,
shampooing, brightening, marcelle-waving,
eyebrow-plucking and -arching, face-, foot-
and hand-massaging, are performed by male
priests in shining raiment, ladies of fashion
book seats in all departments for 12 months
ahead. Nor is the ritual confined to the
wealthy; stern necessity compels Miss Demos
to spend at the same place not less than 7s.
for a trim and a water wave per fortnight,
leaving out of account the shillings that go
on other refinements, such as kiss-proof lip-
stick, guaranteed to leave no embarrass-
ment upon the cheek of masculine admira-
tion. Six years ago a permanent wave was
an ordeal second only to a major operation;
it entailed sitting in a chair from nine in the
morning to six in the evening; and even to-
day, three hours is the minimum required
to produce a coiffure that can confidently
be unveiled at a first night. Men, too,
spurred by the example of sundry actors,
including one leading musical-comedy com-
edian whose peroxided permanent wave is
the object of frantic female adoration, are
having their locks shingled and steam-oil-
waved. The master hairdressers, some of
whom command salaries_ of close on £lOOO
per annum, are fully seized of the import-
ance of their calling. They point out that
in more civilised countries, like Britain and
U.S.A., universities have chairs of hairdress-
ing, and that the Glasgow College of Hair-
dressers has governmental recognition. They
are demanding a similar academy in Aus-
tralia, with a five years’ course and an annual
examination no less onerous than that for
surgeons or electrical engineers. The pre-
sent writer will henceforth gaze on the rem-
nants of woman’s crowning glory with a
new respect, as well as with aesthetic satis-
faction.
* * ♦ *
“G.8.L.”: The open roadstead known as
Wreck Bay, between Ulladulla and Jervis
Bay (N.S.W.), received its name through
the loss of the barque Juniper there on Sep-
tember 22, 1850. It claimed another victim
in the Walter Hood, an Aberdeen-built ship
of 937 tons, on April 26, 1870. Several
members of the crew and one or two passen-
gers tried to swim through 150 yards o.
thundering surf to the shore; all in succes-
sion were swept out to sea and drowned,
until a West Indian black named Williams
accomplished the feat. A Sydney boy named
Charles Pritchard successfully emulated him.
an<] was followed by a few
others from the ship. The cap
tain (Latto) had been driven
by a heavy sea against some
spars, and some of his ribs
were broken. He was later
washed overboard and drowned.
Two young men who were stay-
ing at Milton, John Harrison
and Samuel Bailey, arrived on
the scene and made several gal-
lant attempts to get to the ves-
sel ; Harrison actually reached
the ship, and swam ashore with
a line, but it broke. The
steamer Illalong had come up
by now, however, and the 13
men who were still on the bat-
tered Walter Hood were rescued
by a boat. Eleven were drown-
ed, and they were buried on the
lonely shore, with a piece of
timber from the wreck to mark
their resting-place. Two wooden
slabs were erected later, but in
after years these were almost
destroyed by bush-fires. Re-
cently the remains of four
bodies (all that could be found)
were removed to a reserve some
40 yards further up the beach,
and a memorial cairn will short-
ly be placed over them. Both
Harrison and Bailey received
R. 14.5. medals for their efforts
to get a line to the sinking ship.
“E. M. Pyric” : The ingrained
fear of mineral drugs (B.
17/2/’27) is probably due to
their use by the rather crude
poisoners of the Middle Ages.
The much-vaunted poisons of the
Borgias and Medicis were little
beyond compounds of arsenic
and mercury. These inorganic
chemicals compare very un-
favorably as death - dealing
agents with a number of
modern alkaloids, especially in
respect to quickness of action
and secrecy, but the latter soon
lose their potency in the open-
air. The recognised arrow
poisons of savages include the
cadaver poison of the Papuan,
which owes its efficacy to the
presence of various bacilli, not-
ably those of tetanus. These
bacilli, especially their spores,
are very resistant to physical
and chemical action, and so re-
main for a long time capable of
causing a fatal infection. Then
there is the strophanthus, of the
Congo, which resembles digitalis
in its action on the heart
muscle, but is much more
deadly. Corroval and vao, two
vegetable extracts used by
natives of Columbia, are similar
to strophanthus. Snake venorn
is used by certain South Afri-
can bosjesmen, but is probably
not very potent or enduring.
The most interesting of the
whole series is curare, an ex-
tract from a plant allied to that
which gives us strychnine. It
is used by Indians of the Ama-
zon Valley for tipping their
blowpipe arrow's, and by physio-
logists to demonstrate certain
phases of muscle control by
nerves. It kills by causing
respiratory failure, under con-
ditions somewhat resembling
tetanus poisoning. Of the regu-
lar pliarmacopoeial drugs, bru-
cine and muscarine are about
the most lethal.
* * *
“Orojack”: Professor Holme.
Dean of Arts of Sydney Uni.,
returned by the Otranto after
12 months’ absence, full of cam-
panology. He has been seeing
and hearing bells, singly
and in carillons, and crick-
ing his neck in trying to estimate the height
of campanile towers. In the U.S., the mil-
lionaire donors of carillons have a little
competition in campanile, Rockefeller, in Neff
York, and Bok, in Florida, leading the way-
But experts declare that high towers are not
needed for carillons, and that the clock tower
will be quite high enough for Sydney’s 49 bell?.
This carillon will have to) yield to only one
other for size, that now in course of erec-
tion by the Canadian Government at Ottawa.
* * * *
“John Cow”: When “31/5/1916” asserts
that “the High Seas Fleet had not influenced
the war up to May, 1916” (B. 24/3/-T),
he ignores the fact that the High Seas
Fleet exerted an iron pressure on Russia.
And as there was no Russian scien-
tific industry to foil it, the Russian Empire
went up in smoke, with momentous con-
sequences to the Allies, and, indeed, to the
whole world. Apart from this, Germany?
fleet held a long coastline, kept a vast num-
ber of British sailors and shipyard-workers
looking after it, and promoted a devastating
submarine campaign.
PLENTY OF TIME.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“Now is the season for love and laughter,
I’ve got plenty of time to wed.
Why should I care for what comes after?—
We shall all be a long time dead.”
Thus dreams Youth till the truth awakes him —-
Time draws nigh with the scythe that (uts —
Then, when the toothless stage o’ertakes him,
l.ife has nothing to give but nuts !
N.S.W.
CRIPPS CLARK.


ħ
h
The TOP-NOTCH'ScotcK
1
ÜB9W A I3MAA*"S
0
\
v>
ALWAYS ORDER
Schweppes’
Dry Ginger Ale
the Only Original.
REFUSE SUBSTITUTES
AND IMITATIONS.
Manufactured only by
Schweppes, Limited.
“Kerys”: When the inhabitants of Blen-
heim (M.L. ) beheld the beginning of what
seemed a healthy street scrap between two
hefty citizens, a sporting instinct led them to
form a ring and assume an attitude of
strict neutrality. Despite repeated invita-
tions from one of the combatants, none of
the spectators butted into the fray, prefer-
ring to let the couple settle the argument
themselves. A police constable was not so
considerate, and it was only when lie
peremptorily ordered the spectators to assist
him that the crowd realised that what they
had regarded as a settlement of some personal
difference was in reality the attempt of a
citizen to overcome a dangerous maniac, who
had suddenly tackled him in the street. The
assailant was with difficulty removed to the
police-station and thence to a mental hos-
pital.
* * * *
“Gouger”: Some men get all the thrills.
A cobber of mine was on the northern pearl-
ing fleets before he enlisted. His first
experience of war was when he mixed it with
Abdul at the Landing. Later on he and a
mate, between bombs, sneaked out one night
into No Man’s Land and tended a wounded
Maorilander amongst the bushes for two
nights and days. They bayoneted three
men. portion of a .Tacko patrol, before they
finally succeeded in dragging the wounded
man, foot by foot, into our trenches. My
cobber was next blown up at Quinn’s Post,
but survived to return to the Peninsula.
After several more hair-raising and hair-
breadth ’scapes he was taken prisoner, and
put in a harrowing time under hard task-
masters in the interior of Asia. Eventually
he returned to Aussie a rather quiet man,
and we reckoned his thrills were over at
TEE HIDDEN CLAW.
HILDA: “Jack paid eight hundred for the car he drives me
about in.”
DOROTHY : “When he drives me he always tells me he
paid nine hundred for it.”
last. But we were premature. He married
a little red-haired girl with shiny eyes, and
his latest thrill came the other day with the
arrival of twins.
* * * *
“Schnorrer”: A landmark of Bourke-
street, Melbourne, will vanish when the
Hebrew Synagogue moves out to the new site
recently purchased at the corner of Toorak-
road and Arnold-street, South Yarra. The
value of the city property has soared to
such an extent that, even with the cost of
a new building, the change-over is a good
business speculation. Also, the old temple
had ceased to be convenient for worshippers
since the habit of living in the city has died
out —and Jews are supposed to observe the
Sabbath strictly, even to not causing Gen-
tiles to labor by transporting them in
PUTTING IT TO HIM GENTLY.
VISITOR: “ Tommy seems very tired.”
TOMMY' SISTER: “Yes. I shouldn't have fold him that he could stay up until you'd
gone.”
trams, ’buses or motor-cars. The change
will leave the East Melbourne Synagogue
as the meeting-place of the Chosen on the
north side of the Yarra; but efforts are being
made to secure a new synagogue in Carlton.
“Coot” : The omission of a single word in
the printed record of the proceedings of the
Melbourne City Council for 1!)27 is respon-
sible for the curious announcement that
“The Lord is ex officio chairman of-the City
Council, and has precedence in all municipal
proceedings.”
* * * *
“Cabbagetree”: Some worthy people in
Melbourne profess themselves distressed at
the inadequacy of the cap
as a headgear for school-
boys. But the masters of
the great public schools
are practically unani-
mous in pointing out (1)
that cases of sunstroke
are unheard of, and (2)
that, straw hats have
gone quite out of favor
since the war; school-
boys, “being more slaves
to fashion even than
schoolgirls,” absolutely re-
fuse to wear them. Scff l :-
felt hats, it seems, though
by no means uncommon
on Sydney public-school
boys, are rigidly banned
in Melbourne, one highly-
placed dominie stigmatis-
ing them as “very ugly,”
and another as “an
abomination entirely un-
suitable for schoolboys.”
Still, that view comes,
like those who voice it,
from the English public
schools, where straws have
been worn for genera-
tions all the year round,
even in the depth of win-
ter. There ought to be
some alternative to the
non - protective cap on
scorching days, and if
hoys absolutely refuse
straws it might be worth
while allowing them to
sacrifice conventionality
to comfort.
“Baomata”: I have wondered ever since
the war why the ancient Egyptians went to
so much trouble in the preservation of their
mummies; I have seen many instances of
the climate doing all the necessary work on
any animal body left exposed. At the battle
fought near Mersa Matruh on Christmas
Day. 1916, between our forces and the Sen-
ussi, the latter took cover in the numerous
ravines intersecting the plateau. On being
defeated they fled, leaving all their dead
where they fell. Six months later our Camel
Corps patrols were through the country, and
a Digger found the equivalent of £5O in gold
on one of the dead Arabs. This naturally
led to a close examination of every corpse
which could be found. They were all in a
perfect state of preservation, the features
being easily recognisable. The dryness of
the climate had dehydrated the flesh and
hardened the skin to the texture of parch-
ment. It is sad to have to record that not
another mummy panned out as much as a
piastre. #
“Kea”; Speaking of oxen roasted whole.
Years ago the hotel in Beach-road, Auckland,
was kept by a patriotic American who every
Fourth of July invited his friends and fellow-
Yanks to a feast, of which a barbecue
was the great attraction. If there were any
guest present whose birthday happened on
the great day, , he sat in the place of honor
at the host’s right hand, and the choicest
cuts were reserved for him. For three days
all the passers-by had olfactory evidence of
America’s national festival.
* * * *
“Maurice G.”: When the Duke of
Edinburgh visited Bendigo in 1967 he
was banqueted in
the famous 400 ft.
level of the Hust-
ler’s mine, from
which over £500,000
worth of gold was
obtained. The floor
of the huge exca-
vation (made by
removal of the
reef) was carpeted,
the walls were
draped, and the
wdiole of the work-
ings was brilliantly
lighted. The visi-
tor took a pick,
and for half an
hour wielded it on
the golden ground,
while the miners
cheered him for a
sport. The Duke
of York can hardly
expect any experi-
ence of this sort.
Ivalgoorlie. it is
true, might show
him mines that
have been many
times more productive than Hustler s, but
the “jeweller’s shop" aspect is only a
memory.
“5.W.11.” : I was one of the passengers in
a shockingly overcrowded ’bus that had
pulled up in Oxford-street, Sydney, the other
night. The raucous-voiced conductor, notic-
ing a policeman’s eye fixed meaningly on his
load, sought to dispense with a few of them.
He began by asking all who had not paid
their fares to get off. Half a dozen obliged,
but “Fez-pleez” decided that was not enough.
When nobody else responded to his invita-
tion, he grabbed a meek-looking bloke and
dragged him off the 'bus. The evicted one
said never a word till both his feet were
planted on solid ground; then he suddenly
unhooked a right uppercut that knocked the
conductor cold, and nonchalantly climbed on
board again. The driver swallowed what-
ever he might have been going to say, and
got out to revive his offsider. And in due
time the ’bus resumed its progress to King s
Cross with nobody troubling that about 19
more passengers had got on after the dis-
turbance.
* * , * *
“Fong-Shui” : Despite the efforts of anti-
footbinding leagues in the treaty ports, mil-
lions of Chinese girls continue to have the
arches of their feet broken by the applica-
tion of damp cloths, which, drying, bend the
heel and toes together; if their cries keep
the family awake at night they are relegated
to an outhouse. The Cantonese have been
steadily abolishing this atrocious custom for
some time, and the first reward of their
enterprise is that they have now a regiment
of Amazons which doesn’t have to be loaded
into barrows, and which has been a big
factor in the spectacular march upon
Shanghai. These ladies were regularly
enrolled in the Kuangtung army; their
leader, Miss Foo Foo, is a graduate of Boro-
din’s School of Communism in Canton. Scat-
tering themselves ahead, they attack the
masses with propaganda, and, no doubt, the
hearts of susceptible foemen with their
charms. Miss Foo herself, according to
Chinese standards, is a fetching enough
Monna Vanna to be introduced into any
general’s tent —as regards one end of her,
at least. The other end, being equipped with
a normal pair of feet, is, of course, repellent.
But perhaps the generals avoid looking at
the feet.
“Ping-Pong” : The attempted bombardment
of an arsenal at Shanghai by revolting
Chinese gunboats has some reminiscent fea-
tures, one of them being that nearly all the
shells were duds. When the Chinese navy
engaged the Japs in the Yellow Sea 33 years
ago it got an Unholy hiding. Most of its
commanding officers went into action in
mandarin robes, and with no more know-
ledge of naval tactics than might have been
expected from a Thibetan. The Chinese ships
were mostly British built, and good of their
kind, but the big guns suffered from the fact
that the gun-crews used them, habitually, as
storehouses for their rations. The powder
was mostly in half-charges, and the shells
were more often filled with sand than high
explosive. It was a case of the famous
Chinese “squeeze” from the head of the navy
—then the übiquitous Li Hung Chang—
down to the O.C. a torpedo boat —destroyers
were hardly born then. _ Still, even these
manifold disabilities didn’t prevent the old
mandarin skippers refusing to surrender, and
going down with all honors.
* * * *
“Black Tracker” : He was the eldest son
of a wealthy Melbourne merchant, and
had succumbed to the charms of a
typistc in his firm's employ. The furious
HER PIOUS HOPE.
“Dear , ditar, things (ire very slow. We had many more patients
this time last year. I wonder where they have gone.”
“I don't know, Doctor —we can only hope for the host.”
father promptly handed the lady a month's
wages, and threatened the son with equally
drastic treatment if the affair was not broken
off. Then something happened. The son
did not put in an appearance at dinner,
but a short note, indicated that his body
would be found on a certain beach. The
police hurried thither and found the young
man’s clothes, with his watch, pocket-book
and letters in the pockets. This is the second
act, and the curtain falls on a broken-hearted
girl and a father stricken with remorse.
Three days later, however, the son returned
with a story of having been picked up by a
passing launch. The father gave his consent,
but he is still a little dubious about the
launch.
MADE-UP FOR THE PART.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
•‘The fashion in make-up is ever-changing. The
death-knell of vividly cannined lips has been rung
by dress designers and beauty specialists. .
different powder is used for every occasion,
and the country, evening and day, demand different
colors and texture.”
Belinda wears her hunting bloom;
Her lips a ruddy health bespeak ;
She sports an open-air perfume
Like winds that play at hide-and-seek
In gardens gayly blossoming
Belinda’s make-up’s just the thing!
The paler hues that flappers now
Adopt for cabaret affairs
Are pale indeed beside the glow
That, when with me, my captress wears.
Sometimes perhaps she, too, is pale;
For me her brighter notes prevail.
Though with my heart she likes to toy,
I know' that serious intent
Is in her thoughts of me. ’Tis joy
To see precisely w’hat is meant:
Towards others she min' listless be—
She w'ears her hunting bloom for me.
x.s.w.
THE FREQUENT LOVER.


Usher’s Hotel Ltd
Castlereagh Street, Sydney.
A first-class new and up-to-date
modern hotel.
Running hot and cold water in all b ;d-
-rooms and many have Bath de Luxe.
Automatic bedside telephones.
English and Trench Cuisine.
New Marble Bar, spacious and airy.
For perfection of service, comfort
and cleanliness, Usher’s Ltd. is un-
equalled.
Inclusive Terms, apply
MANAGER.
A LASTING SOUVENIR
of the visit of H.R.H.
THE DUKE OF YORK
and of the
opening of
Federal
Parliament f
House,
Canberra.
ĥ
STERLING
SILVER
AFTERNOON
TEASPOON
The bust of the
Duke, forms the
handle, “Canberra,
1927,” is engraved on the
stem, and a reproduction of
House of Parliament, in relief,
is in the bowl. The length of the
spoon is 41 inches. Price 12/6
each.
FAIRFAX & ROBERTS, LTD.,
The Oldest Jewellery House in Sydney.
23 and 25 HUNTER STREET.
PLATN figures. cash only.
ħ
FOR ALL
EMERGENCIES'
NEVER FAIL
Write for lllustrottd Cmtshpte.
The Ever-Ready Co. (Gt. Britain) Ltd-
-163 Pin Street, Sydney
PERSONAL
ITEMS
Some March birthdays:—
A. 0. C. Holtz (Melb. Arte:us), 53, on 1st; Q’land
Senator Brig.-Gen. Thompson, 64, and N.S.W. Col-
lector of Customs Barkley, 58, on 2nd; Justice
Powers (High Court), 74, and author-parson Frank
Boreham, 56, on 3rd; Archbishop Mannix, 63, Prof.
Brailsford Robertson (Adel.), 43, and novelist Edward
Dyson, 62, on 4th; Vic. ex-Premier Lawson, 52, on
5th; Major-General J. H. Bruche, 54, on 6th; Rev.
James Colwell (Methodist Church historian), 67, on
7th; artist Tom Roberts, 71, on 9th; artist John
I.ongstaif, 65, on 10th; Walter Bennett, M.L.A.
(N.S.W.), 63, H. P. Beaver (Adelaide’s Town
Clerk), 59, and E. S. Simpson (W.A. Govt, miner-
alogist and chemist), 52, on 11th; G. E. Flannery,
K.C. (Syd.), 55, on 13th; Frank Clarke (Vic. Leg.
Coun. Pres.), 48, J. R. Collins (High Commissioner’s
Office), 58, and T. A. Ferry (Q’land Under-Sec.),
50, on 14th; Prof. Boyce-Gibson (Melb.), 58, and
Bishop Hayden (Wilcannia), 59, on 15th; J. A.
Leach (“Australian Bird Book”), 57, and S. L.
Itessell (W.A. Con. of Forests), 30, on 17th; Prof.
E. R. Holme (Syd.), 56, and E. M. Smith (S.A.’s
ex-Surveyor-Gen.), 80, on 18th; Archdeacon Bur-
bidge (Bunbury), 56, on 19th; Police Inspector-Gen.
Jas. Mitchell, 62, J. Wallace Sandford (Adel.), 48,
and A. S. Rodgers, M.H.R. for Wannon, 52, on 20th;
Justice McNaughton (Q.), 68, and Dr. Roy Burston
(Adel.), 39, on 21st; Lloyd Chambers (Speck’s
Solicitor-Gen.), 64, on 22 nd; George Fairbairn (Vic.’s
Agent-Gen.), 7:2, Major Marr, M.H.R. for Parkes,
Squadron-leader HEPBURN, D.F.C.
47, and novelist Roy Bridges, 42, on 23rd; ex-W.A.
Premier Lefroy, 73, on 24th; Vice-Admiral Ernest
Gaunt, 62, and Col. M. F. Bruxner, M.L.A., 45, on
25th; Vice-Admiral Clarkson (Syd.), 68, and Harry
Gullett, M.H.R. for Henty (Vic.), 49, on 26th;
Vic. Premier Allan, 61, on 27th; S. J. Jacobs
(Adel.), 74, Walter James (ex-W.A. Premier), 64,
Prof. McDougall (Speck’s Uni.), 60, and J. A.
Norris (Vic.’s Auditor-Gen.), 55, on 28th ; Prof. T.
G. Tucker (Melb.), 68, Prof. Benham (M.L.), 67,
Prof. Jethro Brown (S.A.’s Industrial Court), 59,
Hal P. Colebatch (W.A. Agent-Gen,), 55, and
G. V. Brooks (Speck’s Director of Education), 50,
on 29th; Col. Burford Sampson (Speck’s Senator),
45, on 30th; Howard Hitehcox (Vic. M.L.C.), 61,
on 31st.
Cabled that Bert Hinkler, the Australian
test pilot, is getting ready to fly from Eng-
land to Australia in 14 days. He is jnst
the man for that job. Hinkler returned to
Australia in 1921, but, despite his reputa-
tion as one of the best aviators in Europe,
he found nothing offering here. He hadn’t
seen his people for five years, and, not having
the time or the cash for a train trip to
Bundaberg (Q.), he borrowed a little baby
35-h.p. Baby Avro in Sydney, and made a
non-stop flight from Mascot to his own home
town, landing in the back paddock. On such a
small ’plane the feat was amazing, and it
remains one of the longest non-stop flights
made anywhere in the world on a low-powered
machine. Hinkler hasn’t the knack of pub-
licity, but there are flying men who rank
him ahead of Cobham.
The value Dr. Colin MacKenzie places
upon the collection of zoological specimens
he has offered to
the Commonwealth
Government is
£lOO,OOO. He con-
siders that the col-
lection would bring
that price in New
York. The Mel-
bourne doctor, an
orthopaedic special-
ist before his re-
tirement, has since
then devoted him-
self to building up
his collection. The
suggestion is that
the MacKenzie gift,
together with Dr.
Horn’s collection of
skulls, should be
placed in a museum
in a zoological park
to be constructed
at Canberra.
Dr. GEORGE
SYME, first presi-
dent of the Colic fir
of burgeons of
Australasia.
Whatever happens at Vie. Assembly elec-
tion on April 9, John Allan will do the
honors as Premier when the York pair are
in Melbourne, from April 21 to April 29
inclusive. Writs for the poll on April 9
will not be compulsorily returnable till
April 30, and a Parliament cannot be sum-
moned till all official results are in. If the
Duke has authority to give John o’ Rodney
a touch on the shoulder with a sword, Allan
won’t mind, nor will he care a cent if he
is overlooked. The other five State Premiers,
being Laborites, officially disdain name-
handles.
Andrew Joseph Thynne, dead in Bris-
bane, was a man of many parts. Born in
County Clare, he came to Queensland with
his people in 1864, and after a start as a
civil servant became a solicitor. He entered
the Deg. Council in 1882, and was Minister
for Justice and Attorney-G ener al under
Mcllwraith and Morehead, as well as P.M.G.
and Minister for Agriculture under Hugh
Nelson. Thynne was the first Minister toorgan-
ise agricultural instruction in Queensland ; he
founded Gatton College and other training-
schools. Commander and originator of the
Queensland Volunteer Rifles, a crack corps
of pre-Federation days, he was a fine marks-
man, winning two Queen’s prizes in the
North. He was a delegate to the Federal
Convention in 1891, and 10 years later he
stood for the Senate —the first—but Tom
Glassey just beat him for sixth place. The
fine old man was 79 when the light went out.
Just dropped in on Maoriland from Bag-
dad, Dr. H. A. Mills, a young Maorilander
who is Director of Government Laboratories
and the Pasteur Institute in Iraq. Mills
graduated at Victoria College, Wellington,
and finished off at Edinburgh. After doing
his bit in the war he was Director of
Research Laboratories at Woolwich, and
made discoveries regarding tropical diseases
which landed him in his present job at Bag-
dad. Now, with an army of native doctors,
he is tracking microbes to their lairs.
Tom Mutch, N.S.W. Minister of Educa-
tion, is to be given a testimonial by his con-
stituents, partly in recognition of his long
service and partly to show that they have
no objection to his rivalry with Lang. Mutch,
when a boy, saw Australia as a bushworker
sees it; but he graduated into a clerical job
in the Worker office and then became a
writer. He was a big figure in journalistic
unionism, but faded out of tljat when he
entered politics as member for Botany. As
Minister for Education his sympathy with
the plans of Peter Board and James Nangle
led to big expansion in the system. Mutch
has broadened and mellowed with experience ;
he will_ be well in the running for the
N.S.W. party leadership when Lang goes out.
Hugh R. Dent, son of the London pub-
lisher, after a tour of this country is going
on board his homeward-bound steamer with
35 Australian books under his arm. Among
them are “Robbery Under Arms,” “We of
the Never Never,” and the works of Banfield,
Recke and A. L. Gordon. If any please his
fancy they will be included in the firm’s
Everyman’s Library. Dent thinks “The
Term of His Natural Life,” recommended to
him as Australia’s greatest work, poorly
written, and the subject not one to be per-
petuated in a standard library.
The Last Post sounded on Saturday.
February 26, by the grave of Major John
Bond, one of the founders of the Royal Life-
Saving Society, N.S.W., and one of the last
of the fine old warrant-officers who were pro-
moted on sheer merit. It was he who rushed
up to Dr. Neville Howse in a tight corner
of the Boer War and told him he’d won the
V.C. Howse, now Minister for Defence,
replied “Tush.” or something equally un-
believing. and went on with liis work for
the wounded. Major John Bond left for
the S’African trouble with a splendid field
ambulance lot under burly P.M.O. Williams,
who could amputate a smashed leg and have
the patient in a field hospital before he knew
what the matter was.
When George V. visited Melbourne as
1 hike of York in 1901 he was greeted by
115 members of Vic. Parliament. Very few
<»f that contingent will be there in the same
capacity to welcome the present Duke of
York when he arrives on April 21. Death,
dissatisfied electors and reduction of members
have swept away more than six score, and
the general election on April 9 will make
more changes. It is pretty safe to predict that
there will not be more than eight of the old
r ,wd there—Bowser, Downward, Lawson,
Oman, Peacock, Toutcher and Prendergast, of
the Assembly; and Sternberg, of the Council.
Adelaide has lost one of its oldest citizens
in Henry Rymill. who arrived from London
as long ago as 1855, a 19-year-old lawyer’s
clerk, and starting from humble begin-
nings became a power in pastoral and
financial circles. He early became inter-
ested in copper mining, and for years
he was a director of the famous Can-
owie Pastoral Co. which disposed of the
last of its valuable holdings a couple of
years ago. Henry Rymill married a daugh-
ter of Arthur John Baker, one of his early
employers and a former superintendent of
the Adelaide Fire Brigade. His wife died
over 40 years ago ; four sons and two daugh-
ters survive.
Billy Keast, who represented Dandenong
in Vic. Assembly for 17 years (1900-17),
handed in his checks the other day. In the
late ’nineties Billy came to Melbourne from
the Kyneton district, where he was a prize-
winning ploughman, and convinced himself
that auctioneering, combined with a stock and
station agency business, was a game at which
he could coin money-—as he did. A ready
tongue, hustling methods, heaps of assurance
and the personal touch served him well.
Rupert Clarke, George Chirnside and the
Winter-Irving crowd family invoked his
assistance in subdividing, and his commission
was considerable. The one place where Billy
was not accepted at his own valuation was
Vic. Parliament. In his time there were
eight Liberal Governments, and he was eli-
gible for at least five, but he was always
passed over.
Organist 11. A. Jaques, who has handled
last sheet of music at Rockdale
< N S.W.), did not long survive his first
Australian pastor, George Walters. Jaques
came from Fogland more than 30 years
ago, found his first church job in Syd-
ney’s Unitarian tabernacle in Liverpool-
street, where Walters, more radical then
than in after years, was filling pews and aisles
with something new to Sydney in the way of
religion. Though Jaques professed himself
a Methodist, he gave the Unitarians good
music for their money. Like Walters, lie
was cremated at Rookwood.
William Young (83.), of Adelaide, claims
to be the oldest shearer in Australia. For
63 years—from 3.862 to 1925—he was engaged
in his back-breaking task. As a lad of 35
Young shore his first sheep; when the shed
was finished he helped to cart the clip to
Port Augusta, and then joined the crew of
the barque Percussa, which carried the wool
to England. On his return to Australia
the lure of gold attracted him for a time,
but he always found himself back in one of
the sheds in northern S. Aus. His record
tally for one day was 185 sheep.
Ryton Oldham, formerly Commonwealth
chief electoral officer, who passed out in
January, left property in Vic. worth close on
£9OOO to near relatives. He had also some
assets in the Speck, whence he came to join
the Federal service.
The lions and elephants of East Africa
can have had no regrets when the brothers
W. W. and D. B. Livingstone, of Waikato
(M.L.), left for home. The animal for
which the brothers feel the deepest respect
is Jumbo, whose sagacity and vindictiveness
surprised the hunters from Maoriland. Bur-
ing the nine months they were in p as «
Africa seven white elephant-hunters lost
their lives in the strife between man anr
pachyderm. At Mombasa the Maorilanders
met a very old white man who claimed that
he was one of those who brought Living,
stone, the explorer, back to civilisation from
Ins long immurement in the jungle aftpi
Stanley had found him.
“Old Unionist”: The baker of the pam-
phlet, “The Rich Baker and the Dyin°
Rockcliopper” (B. 24/2/’27), was ’Andy
Me Ivy e, who is better known as an investor
and a practical joker. As a baker, his main
characteristic was generosity to his employee*
and an obstinate rage against unioi
interference. His deliberate flouting ot
awards, cost him a lot in fines for industrial
breaches. The particular penalty that was
pending at the time of the election when
Wade went out of power was cut down to
a mere trifle by the Minister for Justice, not
by the Appeal Court. The irony of the thing
was that the Minister acted on the urging*
of Labor politicians.
If Ilibbert Newton had lived there would
not have been the discontent that has
occurred in Vic. over the arrangements for
the visit of the York pair. Newton, with
his long experience as a table officer of both
State Houses, would have known that a
country Ministry must not ignore the rural
areas, and would have insisted upon fixing
up some sort of a provincial tour. Of the
State Cabinet reception committee, Peacock
is too busy with three departments, Allan
and Goudie are not adepts at ceremonial
programmes, and Argyle is on his way to the
Yewnited States to try to screw half a
million or something out of the Rockefeller
Foundation for medical research. So official-
dom had a free hand—and one of its leading
spirits is chief of a Rechabite lodge.
Died recently :.t Auckland (M.L.), aged
79, Henry Wetherilt, who nearly 30 years ago
survived a terrible ordeal. He was one of
the 16 —15 men and the stewardess —who,
when the Elingamite hit the Big King one
foggy morning on the Sydney-Auckland run,
escaped from the wreck oil a raft, and for
several days were adrift without food or
water. Wetherilt, then middle-aged, saw the
stewardess and most of the young men die
from exhaustion, but with his faculties ever
alert he cheered the remaining eight until
they were rescued by the warship Penguin.
SHE: “Your son is an undertaker. Why,
I thought you said he was a doctor
HE: “No. I said he followed the medical
profession.”
Last week’s cables told of a son’s aeroplane
flight from Croydon (England) to Malta to
see his dying father. The latter was General
Congreve, V.C., who, with young Roberts
and a small volunteer party, tried to recover
Long’s Horse Artillery battery at Colenso.
Long, with the lt.H.A.’s optimistic belief
in itself, galloped his 12-pounders to within
500 yards of some 2000 Boer riflemen, so
as “to get fairly at tlic beggars.” In a few
moments he, his personnel and bis gan
teams were all killed or wounded. In
the daring and reckless attempt to get the
“squirts” out. many more valuable lives were
lost, among them that of young Roberts,
whose gallantry earned a posthumous V.C.
A well-known yachtsman made his main
sheet fast for the last time when “Mae'
Darcy McCluskey died, after a week in bos
pital, of appendicitis. Chief clerk in the
Port Jackson and Manly Company, he was
only 34 years old, having been with the co. for
20 years. One of the boats which he helped
to man was the Sea Rover, owned by general-
manager Dendy, of the Manly Co., but Mc-
Cluskoy served on many a harbor craft, which
accounted for the scores of friends he had
along the harbor sides.
THE CHILDREN.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Old Mrs. Drane has seven sons,
And stalwart chaps they are;
And five are conquering the world,
And two died in the war.
Into each boy she must have put
Some self-reliant flame,
For as they wandered in the world
Each of them made his name.
’Twas John who planned the northern dam,
Though she’s not one to boast;
And Harold harvests ivory
Out on the Congo coast.
And Herbert is a soldier who
Shouts orders down the land;
And fifteen hundred mining men
Are under Joe’s command.
And Mrs. Drane feels very proud
When neighbors, passing near,
Speak of her conquering sons to her
And tell her what they hear.
But Mrs. Drane, when evening comes,
Gets wistful in her ways,
And, taking her old chair inside,
She just kneels down and prays.
Then, crooning some old nursery song
To seven curly heads,
Puts seven little vagabonds
In seven little beds.
VICTORIA.
FURNLEY MAURICE.


yi
%
(/
X
0
>
:«fc
@1
0/ eQ
0
<» ?
ffi
w
*
X
■o
:T2
tyCCk
to/
a
<*V
yv
r
O
ft»V 1
•tr'
\ •> i
-A
pi o
WV
P'S
i °
0.
>
???.
r
r
X
IP
x:
$
r
1
1
%
I
0
>
1
I
1
>
?
1
o
■TO
TO(,>
»5
2<
irO
<*:/
o E
(A rt
19
10
QJ
*
I
0)
r
$
o-
O
i n
<$
m Si
aunt
□ -
zr
2
nr
<ifl
x
1i
f
'/A
///
c
SP
Signed
Sealed
and
Delivered
i ... •
perfect condition //


Cbc Equitable Cife
flssce.
Em
Coy.
Australasia Eld.
Head Offices
Parbury House, Eagle Street, Brisbane.
Branches:
N.S.W.: VICTORIA:
84 Pitt St., Sydney. SCO Collins St., Melb.
Transacts Prolate, Life Endowment, Com-
bined Benefits (All Sickness') Assurance .
(Vacancies for Producers with good records.)
FREDK. LEVY, Mg. Director.
MART ELL'S
For* Every 0
Occasion
Mar tell’s for Age and Quality.
From the Cognac District
of France only.
\
THE OLD CHAMPION
ħ
On the 24th May,
1885,1 won a footrace
of 150 yards for £l5O
against Bill Gol-
lan of Warwick.
That started me
in business as a
Saddler, and
after over 40
years I can
guarantee yon
the finest saddle in
Australia.
Write for my new book, full of interest.
JACK WIENEKE,
371 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
434 QUEEN STREET, BRISBANE.
ABORIGINALITIES
MADE IN AUSTRALIA
BARNES-LINSEED OIL
THE WRONG LIQUID.
HORACE : “The parson said he wished he could bring
tears of repentance to my eyes."
EGBERT: “And what did yer tell him?”
HORACE: “Told him it was no use boring for water in me.”
“The Rumpus”: Because a fish returns
immediately to take another bait after just
having been jagged by a hook does not prove
its immunity from pain. Nobody will deny
that a rat is capable of suffering agony when
hurt, but here is my experience of one big
grey beggar that lived on the cheese in our
store. A small-jawed steel trap was set, and
the second night we found it sprung with
a severed rat-leg lying alongside. The follow-
ing night it snapped again, claiming another
leg. I did not think that both legs belonged
to the same rodent until the third springing
of the trap produced the maimed and
severely-handicapped cheese-thief. That rat
knew pain, but its favorite dish had a greater
appeal than the fear of death could repel.
“Kerys”: The Maoriland Government’s
bonus for a successful means of eradicating
the blackberry, the country’s worst pest, has
been unclaimed since it was offered, but
payment of the £lO,OOO is now being requested
by a farmer of Clevedon, near Auckland.
His method is to cut back and fertilise the
blackberry, and turn the farm stock, aug-
mented by a few goats, on to the land to
cat the succulent growth that the plants then
put out. The enterprising farmer offers as
proof of the soundness of his claim a farm
that a short time ago was a blackberry patch,
but is now acres of clean pasturage.
“Matakitaki”: Having a drink in old
McCarthy’s pub one day, I noticed he was
minus his right thumb and asked him how
he lost it. “Well, ye see,” lie replied, “it
was this way. McGuire came in wan day
and shtarted to abuse me. ‘McGuire,’ sez I,
‘if ye don’t shtop I'll t’row ye out.’ ‘Ye
can’t do it,’ sez McGuire, an’ thin we got into
holts. We rolled over and over on the flure,
and the dirty rotten shwine got me thumb
in his mouth and chewed and chewed until
I t’rew him out; but bedad if I’d a known
it was going to pizen and I’d lose it, I’d
a chewed his nose off. I had it in me mouth”
* * * *
“Biliai” : Coming through a bush paddock
I met a mail delving into a white-ants’ nest
with a hammer and a gouge. When he
reached the centre of the nest he raked out
a black and white banded snake about S
or 10 inches in length, anu, popping it into
a suitcase, went off. I found out later that
he was a well-known local character who
makes a living by selling a lotion for rheu-
matism of which the chief ingredient is
snake. These snakes are locally known as
“moonlight” snakes and are only to be seen
abroad on moonlight nights. Does any Abo.
know their real name and whether they
are venomous or not?
* * * *
“Geoloin” : “Yairs,” said Big Mac, “these
floods are causin’ a lot of damage, but not so
much as a flood I remember in me young
days, w’en a lot of ’ouses was swept away.
Our ’ole ’ouse was one of the fust ter go, an’
terwards the end of the flood a big new ’ouse
comes slowly down ther river an’ lobs right
onta the block w’ere our place was built.” “A
stroke of luck for you, Mac,” someone said.
“Aw, I dunno,” said Mac. “It coulda bin
better; yer see the ’ouse was upside down.”
* * * *
“Mephisto”: Undoubtedly
“Pick” (B. 6/l/’27) was
wrong in stating that the life
of a working bee extends over
a few days only. In sum-
mer-time during a heavy
honey flow a bee usually
lives from three to five
weeks, and in the winter-
time for months. Except
when a bee stings someone,
or dies by accident, it gives
up the ghost when its wings
become frayed. Many fall
just before reaching home,
but succeed in crawling in.
The law of the hive is merci-
less, and the maimed worker
is ejected to die in the grass.
Another matter concerning
which there appears to be
some confusion is the num-
ber of queens in one hive.
Some time ago in a par. I
explained that when a hive
lbses its queen through
death or swarming the bees
feed some ordinary worker
eggs on “royal jelly,” and
queens are formed. The
first one out stings the rest
to death. If the bees start
any funny business with
new queens before the old
one goes, the original ruler
simply does not allow it,
and she uses her sting to
advantage. It is possible to
have two queens in one hive
by placing a queen-excluder
between the top and bottom
storeys and putting a queen
in each compartment. The
bees can pass through the
holes, but the queens are too
big. So the colony works
for two rulers and does not
seem to mind.
“Basra”: I am convinced that horses
possess a sense of impending danger. During
the night march which preceded the battle
of Tehrit (Mesopotamia), our horses were
restless and fretful, as they always were
when travelling in large bodies at night. But
just before dawn, while we were waiting for
the ball to open, they became suddenly still
and quiet. I moved about a little to keep
warm, and my mare followed me, nuzzling
her nose down into my armpit. Precisely
the same thing occurred on two subsequent
occasions, and each time we came under
heavy shell fire immediately the battle
opened. As soon as the shells began to
drop amongst us, the mare became quiet and
keenly responsive to my voice and touch.
It seemed as though she knew of the danger
and was doing her best to help me. Prior
to Telirit I had thought her a cranky little
beast, but after that experience we became
excellent pals.
HE’D THOUGHT IT OUT .
“Your camp is alive with fleas, Jacky. Why don’t you get rid of some of those dogs?"
“That no flurry good, Boss. Too much pllca, not ’nuff dog, ’im go longa ME.”
“V.E.”: Fish have their own times for
rest. The hour, according to the abos., who
are good nature-students, is usually about
mid-day. when the sun is shining directly
overhead. This is not true, however, of all
kinds; as whiting, for instance, love to patrol
the sands at this time, if the tide serves, in
search of worms. The more ravenous pelagic
fishes, too —such as salmon, tailer and king-
fish—are always on the quest for tucker,
except when schooling, and then they seldom
bite. Recently about mid-day in Cuttagee
Lake, on the far South Coast (N.S.W.), at
present closed to the sea and consequently
rather stagnant, I saw a big flatliead's tail
sticking out of the slimy, green weed, and
closer inshore lay a flounder, with mouth
open and panting, at rest upon a inass of
similar vegetation. Both fishes were quite
still, but quickly awoke and darted swiftly
away when baits were dropped near them.
* * * *
“Melusine” : The only floral family I can
remember seeing produce the three primary
colors is the violet (B. 10/2/’27). I used
to prize specimens of red and yellow when
at school in Maldon (Vic.) ; we had blue
as well as the usual violet shades in our
own garden. The reds, which I also saw
in Iverang (Vic.), were of a dark shade, but
distinctly red, single and double, while the
yellows were only the single variety and
rather small, though in no way resembling
the white flowers of the same family. Inci-
dentally, the old gardener in a well-known
park in the mountains (N.S.W.) told me
of a joke someone had put on him —a yellow
violet. I am going to send him a root when
I go back to Maldon.
“Bihai”: “J.G.” has surely never delved
deeply into a seedsman’s catalogue, or he
would not be inquiring as to the occurrence
of the three primary colors in one plant
family. Asters, pansies, lupins, swegt-peas,
polyantha, stocks, scabious and gladioli are
only a few of the fairly long list of the com-
moner garden flowers which have red, blue and
yellow colored varieties. The silvery-leaved
salvia has a flower which, though listed as
white, verges on yellow.
“Mako” : It is a fact well known to botan-
ists that the three primary colors are not
found in the same species of flowers The
nearest approach to the three in one family
is supposed to be achieved by the Dutchman
in Ins tulip culture, but even there the blue
is usually tinged with purple. Another in
teresting fact about color in flowers is that
all flowers were originally pale yellow and
in some remote islands —the Falkland
Islands provide the most quoted instance of
this —blooms still adhere to the original
color. Still another color point that might
interest “.T.G.” is that we eat in quantity
no really blue food. We eat black, green,
orange, scarlet and vivid purple, but blue
is off the human menu.
“Mug Gardener”: “.T.G.’? mentions sal-
vias, and states that there is no yellow of
the species. What about Salvia argentea,
a native of the Mediterranean regions? It
has a yellow flower. Also 8. glutinosa, found
in_ southern Europe and the Orient;
this also has a yellow bloom. He also men-
tions the anemones as having no such colored
members of the family, when, as a matter
of fact, there are several yellow varieties.
The three colors are also to be found in
penstemons, lobelias and primulas, to name
only a few examples.
* * * #
“X.0.D.”: For years I’ve noticed that my
sense of smell is suspended during any con-
siderable noise. I have regarded this as
merely a personal peculiarity until recently
when I was talking to my friend Fitz near
a railway bridge, and invited him to inhale
the bouquet of my buttonhole. Just then a
train rumbled over the bridge, and Fitz
bawled at me: “How do you expect me to
sniff anything while all that noise is going
on?” Are we oddities in this respect, or do
we illustrate some general principle?
* * * *
“Mapee”: Tell “ J.D.C.” that his lamb-
marker who puts through 1000 an hour (P».
27/l/’27) must use a chaffcutter. This rate
works out at 3.6 sec. per lamb, and as eacli
ram lamb takes four distinct operations, and
each ewe two, it simply can’t be done. As
for “jointing,” the operator who did not cut
the tail cleanly at a joint, but tore through
the bone at any old place, would get short
shrift from any decent sheepowner, either
now or in the old days. However, jointing
does not delay the expert; his left thumb-
nail instinctively finds the joint as he grabs
the tail. In my youth I was reckoned fairly
smart at the game, and I used to think
(and so did others) that I was doing remark-
ably well if I got up to 200 an hour.
THE ANCIENT OPTIMIST.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“There’s gold in them there ridges, there’s gold there
by the ton,
There’s fortunes there, I tell you, jist waitin’ to be
won.
It may be deep or shallow, it may cut capers queer—
But it’s waitin’, waitin’, waitin’,” said Andy McAleer.
The ridges were unlikely, but what did Andy care?
His faith was of the order that never brooks despair.
Geologists condemned them; no gold could ever be
In such unlikely places—by their geology.
So, searching for that fortune, old Andy Mac went
broke,
And those who used to back him got weary of the
joke.
They didn’t even pity when he, too old to roam,
Was forced at last to enter a city old men’s home.
They gambled on the races —and promptly lost their
cash;
They dabbled in oil ventures that lured before tbe
crash ;
They put their coin in holdings where townships
would arise—
But, somehow, townships didn’t, despite their pained
surprise.
And Andy sits and ponders, he wonders and he gropes
Amongst his dead illusions, amongst his shattered
hopes.
His thoughts articulated nobody stops to hear —-
Unheeded are the dreamings of Andy McAleer.
“Some day, some day,” he mumbles; “I’m tellin’
this to you,
The gold will be discovered, as true as Truth is
true.”
The doctor smijes, attendants turn up or down the
light
But never one imagines that Andy may be right!
N.S.W.
Ei J. CASSIDY.


&
<s?
<&>
c
D
G
6K>
a
are supreme for
quality & value
and will carry
you many thou-
sands of miles
under whatever
conditions you
travel. They
are specially
constructed to
withstand hard
driving on Aus-
tralian roads.
* * *
Garages can supply.
* * *
DUNLOP RUBBER CO. of Aust. Ltd.
All States and N.Z.
m
VJS
6
s.
a
■
■
■
I
■
1
m
m
s
i
; She
H
■
I
■
Pi
PS
K
s^/
m
C.--
jit Dunlop
J and be satisfied


The Federal Mutual
Insurance Company of Australia,
FIRE, MARINE AND ACCIDENT.
Licensed to accept liability under Workmen’s Compensation Act 192(1
AGENTS WANTED.
Head Cilice: 129 Pitt Street. Sydney
it. RAWNSLEY MOSS, Managing Director.
Victorian Branch: 300-00 Collins Street, Melbourne.
11. L. CARROLL, Manager.
Queensland Branch: Federal Mutual Chambers, Queen Street, Brisbane.
NORMAN M. MAIR, Manager.
South Australian Branch: 30 Grenfell Street. Adelaide.
E. M. MINOGUE, Manager.
SUPPORT THIS PURELY AUSTRALIAN COMPANY.
R. A. MANZIE, General Manager.
'W
EXTRA HIGH GRADE
SMOKING
TOBACCO
Australian Agents: R. TOWNS & CO., SYDNEY.
“ Jesmond”: I would like some proof of
the statement made by “Up North” (B.
3/2/’_27) that the sting of a ’ray causes
“rotting of bone and tissue.” >So far as 1
am aware, none of the 25 species of stingray
(Tryyon) possesses a poison gland. What
then is the cause of this rotting? The wound
from a ’ray is caused by the serrated sur-
face of the spike; the presence of some putrid
matter in these serrations or the condition of
the sufferer’s blood may cause the septic
results. Of the scores of ’rays I have
examined, about 25 p.c. showed traces of
foreign matter adhering to the furred surface
of the sting, but not one showed any signs
of a poison gland. I came across three
cases of ’ray wounds during the recent holi-
days, and in each case the wound was per-
fectly healthy and healed within a few
days. If a ! ray sting does cause rotting of
bone and tissue for as long as IS months it
is probably due to neglect, but certainly not
to any toxic properties in the fish.
“HEY, STOP! STOP! WE AIN’T
FINISHED OUR RUN YET!”
“Black Tracker”: I have seen a female
bush-spider finish her honeymoon by savagely
attacking and partially devouring her lover,
but this cannibalism is not practised as a
rule by spiders. It appears, however, to be
the established custom of the praying-mantis,
the scorpion and dung-beetle. In each of
these instances the female is the larger and
more powerful of the sexes. The male,
though quite capable of.resisting these mur-
derous attacks, makes no attempt to do so,
not even to retaliate; liis utmost effort is
to try to escape. I once saw an ugly-
looking scorpion with a well-developed sting
allow itself to be eaten even before the nup-
tials had been consummated, without attempt-
ing to sting the lady out of action. A batch
of young spiders shut in a box without food
consumed one another, until there were only
a dozen left, all of whom proved to be
females.
“Black Tracker”: A Victor Harbor (S.A.)
fisherman had an extraordinary experience
recently. He cast his net in the usual way,
and when lie started to haul in found that
an eight-foot porpoise had become entangled
in the net, and was tearing it. In the act
of releasing the big fish he heard a splash
behind. A 14ft. tiger-shark butted in and
made short work of the porpoise.
* * * *
“R.K.”: I often hear it argued whether
eucalypts cross or not. They do not, unless
in exceptional cases, because each particular
eucalypt has been evolved to suit the climatic
and soil conditions of its habitat. Here are
two interesting cases of exception. The first
is a new species of gum, recently discovered
by Weston, chief of the Afforestation Depart-
ment at Canberra. It is described as being
a mixture of stringy-bark and gum. The
other I have handled myself in the Taree
district (N.S.W.). It consisted of sections
of a sapling, having the outer covering of
an ironbark, with she-oak wood inside it.
Was it freak or fake?
* * * *
“Up North”: I’m puzzled as to how a
goanna digs his hole. Claws provide the
tools, but as his head and neck protrude
beyond the front limbs, they would, appa-
rently, prevent him from working the face
of his narrow tunnel. How does he stow
his neck out of the way? Also I would like
to know why some goannas are web-footed
whilst others are not so. Why aren’t they
built to a standard pattern. Again, why
are some species much faster tree-climbers
than others? Incidentally, in some islands
I’ve prospected, I’ve noticed all the goas.
strongly web-footed, but have never found
them surf bathing. On the other hand, on
islands fringed with mangroves they spend
half their time in the water. The goanna
can dive and swim under water; can chase
fish and elude them when the tables are
turned ; can pounce on a large bird, and by
springing into the water drown it at leisure.
In short, he appears to live two distinct
lives.
“A.V.V.”: Can any Abo. reader give me
information on the rearing of young cocka-
toos? Last season I brought a Major Mit-
chell cockie from the bush and put him in an
enclosure with a white sulphur-crested com-
panion. They were not very friendly at first,
but later on mated, and the female laid some
eggs that were subsequently destroyed. This
year I am making her nest in a petrol-tin,
and I should like to know how long the eggs
will take to hatch and how to feed the chicks.
“Spike”: That it is far better to work
poor bullocks when feed is scarce than to
turn them out on dry pastures was again
illustrated along the N. S. Wales North
Coast during the last drought. One oxen-
conductor had to take a three months’
spell in hospital, so we turned his team
of 22 fine bullocks out on 250 acres
of dry feed. On mustering the bullocks
after the rains we found five dead
and the remainder in such poor condition
as to be scarcely able to carry a yoke. Of
the other eight teams, comprising 130 bul-
locks, drawing off the place, the casualties
totalled only two, and this despite the fact
that the animals, though dog poor, pulled
their 80 to 100 super feet of timber three
days a week, right throughout the drought.
Immediately a starving bullock is unyoked
after a day’s toil he proceeds to mop up
everything in sight, from tussocks to long,
dry grass. It is all the same to him, and he
gets a bellyfull. On the other hand, turn
the same bullock out for a month, and the
chances are he’ll be dingo-meat before half
the period has elapsed. Scorning the dry,
rank feed he’ll run his legs off seeking an
elusive choice mouthful, all the while grow-
ing weaker and poorer.
* * * *
“Up Top”: Three “scrubber” heifers
grazed in an open pocket in a Cape York
forest. From deep within the jungle floated
the bellowing inquiry of a bull. A short
silence, then in the opposite distance a pro-
longed bellow. The heifers raised their heads,
standing motionless. A deep-throated roar
boomed across the jungle.. The challenge
had been accepted. The bellowings, followed
by intervals of silence, came gradually
nearer. A steady trampling of under-
growth heralded the approach of a
thick-set red beast with, wicked eyes
wrinkled up. Vines swished noisily in the
opposite direction, and from the scrub a
black beast thrust out. He stretched his
NOT GUILTY.
“Ah, Mrs. Mangles, I’ve caught ye with a jug of beer again. How
often have I warned ye of the example ye set the children?
Pm afraid you’re incorrigible.”
“Axe, no, Father. I like a drop meself, but I niver incorrige army
one else to take it.”
shaggy neck, and the hills reverberated to
liis bellow of defiance and challenge. Slowly
the bulls advanced towards one another,-,
pawing the earth. Fifty yards apart they
halted with lowered heads, then advanced at
a swinging walk. Ten yards apart each
rumbled deep down in his throat; then with
toss of horns and tail they bounded forward.
The impact was not a crash, but rather a
dull grinding. They thudded, forehead to
forehead, horns to horns, their necks deep
wrinkled under the tremendous strain. Thus
they pushed, silently but for the grinding
of horns and the gurgle of foam as their
sobbing breaths wheezed in. Each strove to
force liis antagonist down. For what must
have been close on half an hour they strained
thus, the heifers looking on, little concerned.
The black bull gave first; his hooves ground
the gravel as he strove to hold the mighty
strength against him. Frothy blood dripped
down their muzzles, for the Crunch of the
horn-butts had ground away the forehead
hide. Then for a hundred yards the black
bull was pressed back. Behind him was a
thread-like depression in the ground. On
the brink of it his hooves slipped momen-
tarily only, but the quiver was conveyed to
the tautened neck. Instantly the red bull's
horns flashed unlocked, and as the massive
neck jerked sideways, then forwards, a shud-
dering bellow eChoed through the trees, and
his horns slipped in deep behind the black
bull’s shoulder. Then the red bull put all
his weight into a goring, crushing pressure,
utterly irresistible, and the black beast’s
haunches sank to the ground.
* * * *
“Plain Jane”: If your dog has been
poisoned, the first thing to do is to give him
ah emetic of salt and mustard, a teaspoon
to a tablespoon full of each mixed with
water. Then cut the ears to cause bleeding.
After he lias vomited give him beaten-up
eggs and milk, with ,a;little whisky or brandy.
If he has had strychnine, or if he has had
phosphorus, give him milk and whiting-
mixed to the consistency of mucilage. If
he will not himself eat it freely, feed him on
it. I have saved both dogs and poultry by
these means.
* * * *
“Val”: A memorable barbecue (B,
27/l/’27) took place at Yackandandah
(Vic.) on King Edward’s coronation day.
The local John Hop organised the movement,
and a phenomenal number of shearers’ cooks
assisted to cook the giant roast of beef and
the damper and spuds. About 200 plum
puddings were also warmed up for the blow-
out. Tile hide of the sacrificial bullock was
subsequently tanned at the local tannery,
artistically mounted, and adorned with the
photos of the committee. It hangs to-day in
the local Athenaeum. Lord Northcote and
his then guest. Lord Jersey, when touring
the district later, had a photo, sent on to
Edward Rex.
“Larrapinta”: .Top Neill, one of Austra-
lia's best sheep-dog breeders and trainers
had a method of educating his pups worth
copying. lie used to fasten the pup’s collar
to that of an old,
well - trained dog,
by a light chain 15
inches long, for a
few minutes every
day while the old-
ster was working.
The senior soon
became used to the
junior running
alongside, and in a
few months the
pup’s education
was well advanced.
I have seen Joe
lead one of his
dogs to a waggon
and show him a
particular opening
in the spokes of
one wheel. Then
he would take the
dog some distance
away, and point
out a particular
rooster in a flock of
fowls. The dog
would cut out the
rooster, work it
over to the waggon,
and drive it
through the gap
previously pointed
out to him. Over
20 years ago on
Erudna station
(S.A.) Joe set out
from the wools'hed
to the head sta-
tion with a mob of
wild wethers. He
drove on ahead in
the dray, opening
the gates and leav-
ing the dog to
bring on the sheep.
The distance was
10 miles, and Joe
arrived at the head
station in an hour
and a half. It was
hours later before the sheep arrived. Tin-
dog was very tired and dusty, but the tally
of the woollies was complete.
* * * #
“Morob”: In several districts along the
north-eastern coast of New Guinea are to be
found among the natives curious drinking
customs that seem to hint at a far-off con-
nection with long-dead civilisations. In one
locality in the Sepik River country, the
natives never drink direct from a vessel in
which water is carried or stored. Instead,
they scoop up the fluid in the hollow of one
hand, carrying it to the mouth with ease,
and swiftness, and seldom spill more than a
few drops. The natives have no idea of the
origin of this custom —they have “always
drunk like that.” The interesting fact about
it is that long ages ago the same fashion
existed in places on the Mediterranean coast,
where it had a religious significance, so that
its appearance in New Guinea may mean
that it has been in some way brought there
from across the world, and been derived from
some long-forgotten primitive half-culture of
which no traces now remain.
HIS WEAK MOMENT.
SERGEANT : “You half -strangled your mother-
in-law, knocked out three constables, and
assaulted this man who was coming to
their rescue—whatever made you do itU
PRISONER: “Well, it all happened in a
moment of weakness, Sergeant.”
“Sucre”: A Bulletin quip ( 27/l/’27),
suggesting a combination of boomerang with
rifle, reminds me of an incident in West
Queensland. A scalper fired at a ’roo about
400 yards away. The bullet missed the
thumper and struck a pair of steel hames
hanging on a shed 30 yards away. A second
or two later the shooter got a blow on the
chest, and heard something fall on the
ground. Bending, he picked up the bullet
he had let loose upon the ’roo. The hames
had turned the missile right back.
BARMY JOE OF GROGAN’S PATCH.
[FOR THE BULLETIN. ]
Where once a hundred shakers stood
In days that long have passed away,
When life was free and life was good,
A lonely shaker stands to-day.
And from the riders on the fence
And from the mailman one may catch
A laugh and jest at the expense
Of Barmy Joe of Grogan’s Patch.
On Grogan’s Patch when we were young
And cared not what went on the slate,
No debt could worry us who fiung
A laughing challenge back to Fate.
Wo drank and jested, toiled and fought,
And when at last the gold was done
We sought, but ’twas in vain we sought,
The lode that shed the gold we’d won.
The tide of life must onward flow,
Hope will not let her victims stay,
And lonely are the winds that blow
O'er far-off Grogan’s Patch to-day.
But ’midst the tailings heaps we reared
When life for us still held a thrill.
By many a long hot summer seared,
Old Barmy Joe is searching still.
He asks and gets no company,
But far across the burning sands
The stockmen and the mailman sec
A shaker rocked by feeble hands.
Yet though he in the lore is wise,
And his costeens are long and deep,
Fast hidden from his eager eyes
Still docs the patch its secret keep.
It little jn alters what tnen say,
Alike to praise or reprehend—
Who goes by' Grogan’s Patch to-day
Knows that the quest is near an end.
.Soon Joe will take the quiet road,
His tired hands will lift the latch,
A«d he will find the mother lode
He sought so long at Grogan’s Patch.
W.A.
OSCAR WALTERS.


“Australia’s Recognised Home of Every Sport. *
Satisfaction . not for a year or two, but for a lifetime, is built into every MAGNA VOX Set
One Dial (5 valve) Radio
Representing the “ne plus ultra” in Radio , the MAGNA VON
is America’s acknowledged Leading Broadcast Receiver.
m
To see, to hear and to operate the MAGNAVOX
is a revelation —a new adventure in radio enjoyment.
Its single dial control permits the triple attributes or
simple operation, perfected performance and enduring
beauty of appearance.
All Magnavox Sets are operated with only one dial.
This means any station you want at the flick of the fingers.
To those who
have waited for
Radio to be perfected
the MAGNAVOX
can be bought with
the assurance of last-
ing satisfaction.
The “Berkeley” Model
(Illustrated on left).
Two - toned Mahogany High - boy
Cabinet, with built-in MAGNAVOX
CONE SPEAKER.
Special Compartments for
Batteries. Price, Complete. .
The “Piedmont” Model
(Illustrated above).
Two-toned Mahogany Cabinet with
built-in MAGNAVOX CONE g% «■«
SPEAKER. Price, Complete XOO
Cash or Terms
Other Models, Complete at £75, £5l and £4O.
Hear these wonderful Sets demonstrated in our Special Audition Rooms, or arrangements can be made in your own home.
PROFUSELY ILLUSTRATED BOOKLETS FREE ON REQUEST.
The New MAGNAVOX CONE SPEAKERS
Made under exclusive MAGNAVOX patents, the new MAGNAVOX CONE SPE.AKER is a history-
making achievement quite as marvellous as the original radio loud-speaker, which was also a MAbINAVOA.
The new Cone reproduces the entire tonal scale—and does it with realistic fidelity. It reproduces
every instrument, every note, every intonation With magical realism.
h
m
i £{
<mr Y
-''•‘Vjv,
Wk
m
The “Cornell” Model
(Illustrated on left),
£3/15/-
The “Cornel” stands pre-
eminent as the highest grade
yet the most reasonably-priced
Speaker on the market to-day.
Artistic non-resonant metal
finish, with two-tone hardwood
or metal base; 1 1 in. high,
wide and 4 fin. deep.
A New Shipment Just Landed.
“Will Corry” Autograph
Golf Clubs
Representing the finest examples of the
Club-maker’s craft. Each Club is individu-
ally tested and inspected by Mr. Corry and
carries our guarantee.
Brassies, Drivers and Spoons.
Fitted with A-Grade Hickory Shafts and 25/-
specially prepared Grips
The “Will Corry” Premier Rustless Irons.
Special A-Grade Hickory Shafts pigskin grips and
guaranteed hanid-forged. A truly splendid 25/-
Iron • • •.... • •
The “Stanford”
Model
(Illustrated on right).
£5/10/-
Finished in two-toned
Mahogany Cabinet,
high, 15 fin.
wide and 6 fin.
deep.
2 Special Tennis Rackets
—entirely exclusive to Mick Simmons’ and worthy of
the skill of the greatest Tennis Champion.
The “Masterstroke.”
The sterling qualities of the “Masterstroke” Racket having been
recognised in the Tennis world, it is being consistently used by some
of the most prominent players in Australia. A product of fine crafts-
manship. constructed of the best obtainable in materials, it is
thoroughly dependable, beautifully finished, and perfect in 77/6
weight, shape and balance
The “Lightning.”
Remarkably low priced, yet a high-grade Racket, admirably suit-
able for the average player. Perfectly balanced and of A-Grade
Ash. with concave throat and reinforced shoulders; strung 'Kfl/ m
with dependable English Gut
IP
£
3
/
WE PAY CARRIAGE, RADIO EXCEPTED.
o
1C
immons
• •
“THE WORLD'S GREATEST SPORTS STORE,”
Headquarters: 720 HAYMARKET, SYDNEY
BRANCHES: CITY, SUBURBS, NEWC ASTLE anrl BRISBANE.


Under
Royal
Warrant
Vintage 1917.
To H.M.
Kin 6
GeorgeV
CHAMPAGNE
MesHeidM
bjhbm
Austral e sian Agents—
Swift & Company Limited
SYDNEY.
CMaMPACHC
'Jiarlcsllcidsic*
Reims
(QJ) «*>«**'
r*2?
PELLISSON
Cognac Brandy.
10 YEARS OLD. *
Australasian Agrents—
SWIFT & COMPANY LIMITED, Sydney.
a
1
;uy'iin
V'V
A
1
■z-
8W1361 for
Reservations.
Wentworth Hotel
Church Hill, Sydney.
SITUATED in a portion of old
Sydney, just a few minutes from
the Theatres, Shopping, G.P.0.,
Circular Quay and the Railway.
Attached to the hotel is the
famous Cafe, with its gorgeous
Palm Court, a splendid Dance
Orchestra and a sparkling C-baret,
afternoon and evening.
Sydney’s Social Rendezvous.
<23
7he centre of Queens/on c/s
' d/stingu/shec/ Soc/o/ Life.
prtfl
BRISBANE
ĥ
Magnificent B a 11-
room. Palm Court
and Lounges at the disposal of
guests and their friends at all
times.
Suites de Luxe—double and single
Bedrooms, with Bathrooms
attached. Hot and cold running
water and Electric Fans in every
Bedroom, and every modern con-
venience for the comfort of guests.
Telegrams and Cables: Lennon’s, Brisbane,
Telephone, Central s'Bo-~10 Lines.
A WOMAN'S
LETTER
SAY-
Kayser
SILK OR
CHAMOISETTE
GLOVES
Sydney, now drowsing in some social lati-
tude that lies between the Doldrums and the
Sargasso Sea, will probably shake itself awake
when the invitations to the York functions
begin to arrive, or not to arrive. In the mean-
time, dressmakers report no great rush for
new or costly raiment on the part of the
radiantly clad. There’s a general murmur
as to the visitation being so early in the
season, and the general gaze is concentrated
on the Duchess to the exclusion of all else.
Diamonds, however, are being recharged, and
gold lame devoured by all but the quite elderly,
even as the green leaf is swallowed by the
locust; these things, added to the ballooning
lustres of the immorally gay candelabra in
the Town Hall vestibule, should put a glit-
ter into the royal receptions. Oh, yes, and
one Piper Pointer, with an eye to dress detail,
is having all her shoulder posies of white
roses—“the white rose of York,” she explains
languidly. She omits to add that her small
daughter, from “the school that’s so expen-
sive but such good form,” gave her the tip.
Perhaps it was the unhappy association of
ideas, “Australian Industries and Sydney
Hospital,” that accounted for the poor roll
up to the meeting that was called to arrange
a ball to benefit these two great causes. Any-
way, the public stayed away with cheerful
alacrity. Even of the 11 who tried to look
like a great multitude no fewer than six were
scribes. But the ball is to be held. The
secretary, Mr. Adamson, announced that
March 30 would see the Mooltan ablaze with
bright lights and fair women palpitant in the
cause. The band of the Renown will supply
the music, and officers of the warship have
been mvited to partner the girls. The G.-G.
and his State Ex. have made a gift
of their patronage; and Mayor. Mostyn and
his lady are steeped to the eyebrows in the
j ai ?< S A^ or ie lt was on a general note
of Are we downhearted? No!” that the
first small but enthusiastic Town Hall meet-
ing broke up.
Paderewski’s arrival next week means even
more to music-lovers than the coming of the
York pair; he can ’witch the soul with
melody, while they can only dazzle the eye
with a chestful of decorations and a tiara'
or two. The distinguished Pole is the last
word in picturesqueness, too, even to his
front name, Ignace. In fiis eyes he has a
look of poet David McKee Wright. If one
of Sydney’s enterprising dailies would run
a beauty quest restricted to post-war Prime
Ministers, Paderewski—from the waist up,
anyway—would romp home. The J.,C.W.
and ,J. and N. Taits will introduce their
lion at a lunch party at the Australia on
March 8.
Desmond F. Stratton, of Cootamundra
(lies one of the flour-milling clan), found
!vt S ii Vy e ky the sea at Manly. She was
JNcll Deane, and came to her wedding at St
.lames's in ivory georgettes and satin, on
which gold lilies were embroidered in an old
French design. A froth of tulle train and
the tulle veil bloomed with the same horti
culture. The bride’s mother and father
did the honors later at the Cavalier, amidst
a riot of pink roses.
Passengers to England last week were
Captain and Mrs. Percival Davenport and
then- young hopeful, who have been furlough
ing in Australia after a year or so in India
1 ercival is of the Frank Davenport ilk. and
holds down a medical job on Rirdwood’:
staff, which is mostly Anzacs. Mrs. Daven
port was Maud Friend.
Another of the Moses girls, whose lat.
father was the well-known racehorse owner,
slipped into double harness last week. This
time it was May, the eldest, who sought the
matrimonial smithy of St. John’s, at which
Darlingliurst address she became Mrs.
Edward Royce. The bridegroom, who came to
Australia as manager of the Ivatja company,
returns to London early this month as repre-
sentative of a new company formed to toui-
concert artists through Australia. The wed-
ding was of the select and unobtrusive order
owing to the family being still in the lialf-
mourning stage, and the reception at Kamila-
rm, the Moses home at Darling Point, was
of strictly limited proportions. The new Mrs.
xvoyce s sister, Linda, not very Ioll2* a°T) also
married into the theatrical profession? He?
husband is George Barraud, the good-looking
leading man who played with the Pauline
I rederick company.
The opening of the new Empire Theatre
revealed an auditorium of extraordinary
breadth, in which 3000 people reclined com-
fortably in ‘‘settee” seats, broad and well-
cushioned, or, in the cheapest parts, in
theatre-chairs such as were once considered
the exclusive privilege of d.c. and. stall
patrons. There is no gallery; the “circle”
flings itself across the breadth of the hall
with only four supporting pillars to cause
annoyance to back-stall patrons, and
“loges” taking' the place of boxes in front.
The air of solid comfort is the great feature
of the place, but insufficient attention has
been given to acoustics and ventilation. The
atmosphere became so hot on the opening
night that the simple contrivance of fresh air
forced into the theatre would have been a
■ relief; and it must have been hard for the
backseaters to hear all that was going on.
Habitual first-nighters were, of course, in
evidence. Almost as notable as the crowd
inside was that which densely packed the
street in front, and watched the entrance of
the favored ticket-holders. Hundreds were
even waiting to see them emerge at midnight.
There must be some fascination about this
sport of watching other people enjoying them-
selves. Or, perhaps, the crowd was made up
of punters who reflected proudly that the
theatre was built by their money, since it is
mainly a bookmakers’ venture. The absence
of lobbies and lounges is another of the new
theatre’s defects. Patrons make their
entrance almost from the street into the
theatre itself.
Rufe Naylor was very much to the fore;
having voiced an apology early in the pro-
ceedings so that no one should have any
doubt that lie is the proud father of the
new venture, lie started on another speech
at 11.35 p.m., when the show finished. An
entirely commendable feature was the
cheques for the distribution of the night’s
takings to the Sydney Hospital, St. Mar-
Hospital for Women and the Boy
Scouts’ Association, each of which received
£l7O. That deserved applause. And what
was left of the audience to make it filed
out into the dark night in time to hear mid-
night striking.
Sydney’s brand-new Australian Art Soci-
ety, which hopes to be a medium of intro-
ducing the works of artists from all of the
States to Sydney buyers, made a cheery
nod to its public the other day, Minister
for Education Tom Mutch pressing the
button, as it were. Soothing rather than
powerful was the general verdict on the
works that lined the Education Gallery;
but, then, so were the prices in the cata-
logue. Young artists surged about the open-
ing. and that seemed to promise vitality ; but
at 3.30, when the opening words were spoken,
the giants of the longer-established art soci-
eties were not only absent but very absent.
Mick Paul, widely known to Bulletin
readers as a sound black and white artist,
shows some of liis pet bits of Deewhy as
Nature colored it; he walked about the
Gallery on the first day in a black silky
beard, and accompanied by his slim and
graceful wife. A revival of the old Gesso
work has been essayed with great effect by
Mrs. Andrews. The Harbor, of course, is
her theme, the time night, and the back-
ground tUp city.
Agnes Goodsir, here portrayed, is one of the
most famous women Australia has produced,
and one of its
greatest art-
ists without
any qualifica-
tion. Twenty
years ago she
arrived in
Paris from
Victoria, un-
known. Now
she is in Syd-
ney, the first,
woman artist
to bring back
the distinction
of being a
Societaire of
the Societe
Nationale des
Beaux Arts.
This entitles
her to send in
five unchal-
lenged paint-
ings to the
Salon, and, priceless advantage, to say
where she will have them hung. She is,
above all, a portrait painter, and is emphatic
on the point that a portrait must resemble
the sitter —“if everything is in its place the
painted face should be as the mirrored face.”
Except that it breathes the spirit of the
times her work is not “modern”; none the
less. Miss Goodsir is tremendously interested
in the modern movement. Cubism and Im-
pressionism are quite dead, but a few of
the great artists in Paris are still intent on
what may be termed the research work of
color, and from their experiments will come,
she is certain, a great evolution in art. In
a few weeks’ time Melbourne will see the
first exhibition of this lady’s work, and
Melba, whose guest Miss Goodsir is to be,
will make the opening speech.
Eileen Kay Souper, elder daughter of the
actor of that name, is off to England to con-
tinue her studies in music and the drama.
Eileen, who is a pretty girl, has already
appeared with some success in amateur and
Repertory productions. Her mass of fair
hair was an outstanding feature of her
Phyllis in “Old English.”
Some day the happy housewife, out in
her car for a day’s enjoyment, will switch
on by wireless the electric power in the homo
stove which will have the previously-prepared
dinner ready cooked by the time the hungry
family gets home; her radio-set will supply
her with cooking sounds, which will enable
her to regulate the heat as required. This
reflection is prompted by the Radio Exhibi-
tion at the Sydney Town Hall, which includes
everything in the way of electricity, besides
the radio exhibits. The electric appliances
for the home include the washing-machine,
into which you have only to dump the clothes
and set the machinery going; and there is
the automatic range, which adjusts itself to
tne heat necessary to cook any dish, after
you have “clocked” it to the warmth required.
The radio section includes a “bushman’s set,”
made of a broken bottle, a broken fork and
some wire scraps, not to mention a couple
of sots made in match-boxes. The exhibi-
tion is' a gathering of curious marvels.
Even if you are a field-marshal you pro-
bably can’t teach this uniformed lady much.
She is the
generalissimo
of the N. S.W.
Girl Guides
and supervises
the training of
the officers.
Also, s li e
organises the
camps through-
out the Ma
State, display-
in g a Ki t-
chener -like
capacity for
o r g anisation
and transport.
The army of
Girl Guides
which will be
massed in the
g r onnds of
G o v ernment
House for the
~ .... , , royal inspee-
tion will be under her command. Apart
from her blue cord and her uniform, the
lady in this Judith Fletcher picture is Elsie
Smith, whose family are old-established land-
holders in the Yass district.
Rupert Clarke (a Riviera correspondent
writes) had a wide circle of friends at Monte
Carlo, where he died with tragic suddenness on
Christmas Day. His generosity, good humor
and democratic ways made him popular with
all who had close association with him at
both ends of the world. His death was
entirely unexpected, although his health had
not been robust since the war. He had been
to the Christmas celebrations at Ciro’s,
facing the Casino Gardens. After his return
home he had a seizure, and before his usual
medical attendant, Dr. Pryce Mitchell, could
be located he passed .away, not half an hour
after the evening party at which he had been
a joyous participant. Dr. Mitchell was a
guest at another holiday function given at
Casa del Mare, the beautiful home of Osborne
y> Hagan. The doctor, the oldest English prac-
titioner on the Cote d’Azur, was greatly dis-
tressed over his inability to be with Rupert
when the last call came.
Emily Branscombe-Wood, whom Sydney
once expected to develop into a second Car-
reiio, was reported lately at Monte Carlo,
with a rich protegee possessing a brilliant
voice, Miss Coke-Richards. After a sojourn
in Rome they will return to London with a
view to giving the voice an airing. The pro-
tracted illness of her mother robbed Miss
Wood of many golden opportunities to dis-
play her gifts of musicianship, for which
she was decorated by the French Govern-
ment.
Mollie Blaxian d, a pretty descendant of the
explorer, and youngest daughter of the
medical Blaxland couple, of Double Bay,
married her sailor, Lieutenant Ross Wheat-
ley, of the Australian Navy, at St. Mark’s
midway through last week. The old Darling
Point church was brilliant with flowers and
lights for the ceremony, which was further
prinked out by the complete naval outfit
flown by the ’groom, his best man, Lieuten-
ant Denis Conder, and the two groomsmen.
The ’groom, just back from foreign waters
It- attached to the H.M.A.S. Geranium.
His father and mother are the well-liked
Dr. Wheatley couple, who are the big chiefs
of the Naval College at Jervis Bay. The
bride, a glittersome souffle of chiffon and
tulle, floated into the church on father’s
arm, and after her billowed one matron of
honor, her sister, Mrs. Hubert Simkins, from
Adelaide, and two ’maids in jocund yellows
and blues. The party chirruped along
amidst pink flowering rose-trees at the
Rose Bay Golf Club, the bride’s mother in
sand-colored lace frocking, served with blue
delphiniums, winning general admiration.
1 lie National Council of Women have set
norHnn hoU nf e Ql ' der , for - their Particular
, °" . the royal visitors’ entertain-
ment. _ This is a lnglibrow and earnest fore-
gathering in honor of the Duchess. The func-
tion wiH take place at 4 p.m. in the Union
puiidmg or the University concurrently with
the conferring of a degree upon the Duke
in the Great Hall. The Duchess will be
received by Lady de Chair and Mungo Mac-
Callnm s lady, president of the N.C. W. and
escorted to the Union, where an address of
loyal welcome from the Council and its 50
affiliated societies will be thrust upon her
A musical programme will follow, and repre-
sentative women will be presented. Then
tea and crumpets. The address is being
prepared by artist Ethel Stevens, who is
responsible for the decorations and illumina-
tion, and Eirene Mort, who has undertaken
the lettering. The design, which forms a bor-
der to the address, shows examples of char-
acteristic Australian fauna and flora; an
accompanying key will give the name of ’each
specimen in the design.
The cheque dropped into the handbag of
Josephine Marks the other day at the Went-
worth was for £029. It was the result of
the testimonial matinee given last October
to Sydney’s champion charity committee
worker.
The week in Brisbane :
With that really clever play, “The Goldfish,”
Muriel Starr made a hit in Brisbane. The fish swims
to Melbourne in mid-April, and should certainly he
a catch there. Some very charming gowns accentu-
ate the attractions of the lady who “goes up like an
elevator,” and there is fine support. Amidst the
throng who laughed throughout the piece were
the M. L. Readings, Mrs. Spencer-Browne, Judge
and Mrs. Woolcock, the Cadell-Garricks, the Sligocs,
the Goldhams and the Hert/bevgs.
Grace Gordon, who goes to the Cold Country by
the Otranto, has had a good many parties given
to her ; she reciprocated in kind at Elswick. There
were bowls of zinnias, with tea-table decorations of
crystal vases of royal purple asters; the glass sea
in the centre mirrored the model of a ship, with
colored streamers pointing to the place of each
guest.
Mrs. Graham Mylne, president of the Wynnuin,
Manly and Lota branch of the C.W.A., invited the
members to a party to farewell Mrs. F. Challends
and Mrs. N. L. Miller in the Lota home. .Mrs.
W. H. Barnes presented Mrs. Challends with a book,
and Mrs. Miller with a gold-mounted fountain-pen,
from the members of the branch for which botn
have worked so well. There was a musical programme,
competitions and refreshments.
For Eustace Jones, who is off to Sydney, Mrs.
Fraser East gave a dinner party at Lennon’s, and
Mrs. H. J. Hale had a tea in the Carlton lounge.
Here, too, Mrs. WilLs tendered the cup that cheers
to Mrs. Drayton, who is off to U.S.A.; and yet
another tea party in the same spot was Mrs. Har-
old’s tribute to Mrs. L. H. Pike, who is going to
the Cold Country. Muriel Starr had her dinner
party at Lennon’s, in honor of her birthday, when
she entertained Mrs. Ballinger and her daughter and
others of the company.
The Ritz Cafe was dressed up with red roses for
tne tea given by the standing committee of the
Women’s College. Mrs. T. J. Ryan, the president,
did the welcoming, adding a bouquet of roses tied
with maroon ribbon. Mrs. Clarke and Mrs. Grant
also presented flowers. Freda Bage said her trip
had been a wonder voyage. A college in Vienna
which she had visited had no kitchen, and she con-
sidered that Queensland students had much to be
happy about in their surroundings.
The Otter Ladies’ Swimming Club entertained
the visiting southern swimmers. Mrs. R. McGregor’s
house at Red Hill was bright with bowls of roses
and zinnias, and there were a musical programme and
competitions, the latter won by Mrs. Leslie Morris
and Ettie Robertson.
Grace Trout decorated Clovelly with pink roses
and asters in honor of her cousin Gladys’s approach-
ing wedding with W. Hawker. Mrs. A. J. Gib-
son, Bundaberg, was guest of honor at a good-
bye party at Rowe’s, where zinnias and tulle were
the table decorations. Grace Bell had a tea, in the
Mandarin-room at the Carlton, for Mrs Bowden
1 letcher, of Sydney. Pink and silver were the decora-
tions.
Mrs. Martha Davey, who has been 30 years in
Brisbane, died at Kennedy-terrace last week. She
was born in Cornwall, 87 years ago ; her three daugh-
ters were born in Chile when her husband was mine
managing in that country. Her brother, Abraham
Oates, was one of the early Ballarat miners.
The Mark Harrises are off to England, and C. H.
Briggs’s home was the scene of a party given to
them by the Ashmore bowlers. The decorations
were lavender and gold, with sweets, baskets and
kewpies at the place of each guest. A ease of pipes
was given to Mr. Harris, and Mrs. Harris received
a gold vanity-case from Mrs. Briggs. Mrs. Harris
was in figured blue crepe de Chine; Mrs Briggs
wore brocaded crape de Chine in green and gold.
For Mary Lefanu, who has left for England, Mrs.
Eric Anning, president of St. Margaret’s Old Girls’
Association, had a shivoo at her home at Ascot.
Betty Anning helped her mother in entertaining
The Queensland authors and artists held their first
evening of the 1927 season in the Women’s Club
rooms, when Ashton Murphy read a delightful paper
on “The Humor of the Aboriginal.” Cumbrae
Stewart presided, and Francis Kenna, Dr. E. S. Jack-
son and Hamlyn Harris were amongst the speakers.
E. Colclough showed some charcoal sketches of
Binghi, and Fred Homer was amongst those who
lifted up their voices in song.


BRQTHERJS T3^/^
ID)
I
I
I
Always Fashionable and in
perfect taste for every occa-
sion, a Pearl Necklet is a
woman’s most prized posses-
sion, no other Jewels giving
such lasting pleasure.
A small Pearl Necklet is
often purchased, and on
birthdays and other anniver-
saries extra Pearls can be
added, until a large and
valuable string is obtained.
Hardy’s stock of Pearl Necklets and Loose Pearls are
bought direct from the fisheries, only on the most
favorable terms, and offer the best value and largest
selection in the Commonwealth. A selection will be
sent to any address at the Company s risk and expense.
Pearl Necklets range from £ 1 5 to £5OOO.
Five per cent. Discount for Cush.
Hardy's new illustrated Catalogue will be scut post free to any
address on request.
298-300
COLLINS ST.,
MELBOURNE.
H A RDY
BROTHERS LTD.
< 37ie c lfoii&c of* Qxcluswc VewzlLeru
13 HUNTER STREET, SYDNEY.
And at LONDON.
116-JIB
QUEEN ST.,
BRISBANE.
TWO GREAT writers
In the Famous Shilling Series of Bookstall Novels:
Arthur Wright and Steele Rudd
Steele Rudd’s Famous
Australian Novels.
BACK AT OUR SELECTION
DAD IN POLITICS
DIJNCAN McCLURE
FOR LIFE
FROM SELECTION TO CITY
GRANDPA’S SELECTION
MEMOIRS OF CORPORAL KEELEY
ON AN AUSTRALIAN FARM
ON EMU CREEK
OUR NEW SELECTION
ON OUR SELECTION
SANDY’S SELECTION
STOCKING OUR SELECTION
THE BOOK OF DAN
THE DASHWOODS
THE OLD HOMESTEAD
THE POOR PARSON
Arthur Wright’s Sporting
Novels.
A COLT FROM THE COUNTRY
A GAME OF CHANCE
A ROGUE’S LUCK
A ROUGH PASSAGE
BOSS O’ YEDDEN
FETTERED BY FATE
GAMBLER’S GOLD
IN THE LAST STRIDE
•OVER THE ODDS
RUNG IN
THE BREED HOLDS GOOD
TPIE OUTLAW’S DAUGHTER
THE SPORT FROM HOLLOW-LOG
FLAT
UNDER A CLOUD
WHEN NUGGETS GLISTENED
Price 1/-; Posted 11 2.
COMPLETE CATALOGUE, COMPRISING 150 TITLES, POST FREE.
When ordering, please mention The Bulletin.
N.S.W. BOOKSTALL CO. LTD., Castlereagh and Market Streets, Sydney.
GETS AWAY FROM THE OLD-FASHIONED
The Book of Australian
Bungalows.
Designed along lines to suit the natural Australian conditions, from the Week-
end Cottage, with its large, roomy verandah, to the substantial suburban House.
The Book of Australian Bungalows contains 90 Up-to-date Plans and Drawings
with estimated cost of construction carefully prepared for each Plan.
The main details are standard throughout, with the idea of having as little
waste space as possible; whilst the elevations have been designed along simple
lines.
The Book of Australian Bungalows.
The Work of two leading Australian Architects.
Price 5/-. 4d. Postage.
N.S.W. BOOKSTALL CO. LTD.
CASTLEREAGH AND MARKET STREETS, SYDNEY.
Your Health!
1
SB
Guinness’s Stout
m
WM
mss
m
R
AUs
mm
The World Over
1759-1927
OBTAINABLE
EVERYWHERE


SYDNEY.
The Finest Restaurant and Dance
Rendezvous in Australasia.
PATRONAGE CONTINUALLY INCREASING.
Capacity: Dining and Supper Dances up to 1500.
For Wedding Receptions, Banquets, Dining and
Supper Dances, inquiries to Manager.
Mon., Tues., Wed., Fri., Dining de Luxe, 7.50
10/6; Suppers, J 0.30, 5/6. Value and satis-
faction without equal. No charge for three
hours’ dancing on satin-smooth spring floors—
a new thrill' of real delight.
Thurs. and Sat. Late Gala Nights. Continental
Dinner from 7.30, 21/-. Suppers, 10.30. 12/6.
Tin's evening in London costs £2/2/- upwards!
PEERLESS ORCHESTRA OF TEN.
Bewitching Cabaret, afternoons and evenings.
Delightful Afternoon Teas, 3.30 to 5.30, 5/-
Two hours’ entertainment of Sheer Delight.
Order Wines before 6 p.m. Ring M. 5666.
“I Always Stay at Scott’s”
A
tiio
There’s n heap of sound
recommendation in those
words. “I always stay at
Scott’s,” for they mean
comfort and satisfaction
have been enjoyed in the
past.
ħ
is not only Melbourne’s most central hotel, but
the most modern in the comfort and service-
giving innovations that go to mean real satisfac-
tion.
Inclusive Tariff by the Day or- Bed
and Breakfast Rate.
Write for Tariff Card.
Telegrams “Scott’s,” Melbourne.
FILM POCKET
PICTURE SHOW
Ufic
PATHEORAMA
7 r ß>sted7<s films la eei.
Home Kbcreahons b
388 George St, Sydney
[opp. Beard Watson's)
Melbourne
Chatter
Buckley's
Elizabethan
Tea 'Rooms
R[?] C[?] 800[?] [?]
Buckley [?] Nunn [?]
[?]
' On Newmarket Handicap day at Fleming-
ton tlie dressing, influenced by a chilly
breeze and cloudy skies that hinted of rain,
was chiefly of the near-to-winter mode,
though a few stoics shivered in filmy rai-
ment. Coats and skirts, the new model top-
coats —well-cut, plain garments depending
upon pleats mainly for their smartness —and
furs vied for favor in the mostly well-
dressed crowd of fair punters. There was
a decided leaning towards red in varying
shades, both for frocks and millinery, with
much popularity also for black suits, and
the new berry hues added to the colorful
scene on the lawns, where beds of marigolds,
stocks and standard roses made more glow.
The G.-G. and Lady Stonehaven were in evi-
dence, and State Governor Somers fraternised
with the Federal Government House party.
A few society lights were bidden to lunch
with these celebrities, of the chosen being the
E. H. Sliackell couple and daughter Addie.
Her Excellency’s coat of snaky-patterned
velvet in golden brown tones covered a gown
of beige georgette, and a russet feather
mount adorned her small tusean hat. The
good-looking George Blackwood lady was an
up-to-date visitor in the committee’s box, with
a sable stole upon a pastel mauve frisca
coat which blended with frock and vaga-
bond felt hat in petunia tones. Mrs. Stuart
Brunton, just back from a world’s tour, wore
delightful covering and millinery of mul-
berry coloring, and her daughter Gladys
featured lieather-tweed coat and amethyst
headpiece. Mrs. Iveppell Palmer, who car-
ried the latest in umbrella bags, was in
jumper suit of the favored lime-green shade
and crinoline straw hat in harmony. Sec-
retary A. V. Kewney’s wife was tailored in
stone-luied gabardine, topped by a felt hat.
Mrs. Lambert Latham, who was known in
the limelight as Nellie Payne, aired a beau-
tiful squirrel coat with a tan velvet hat. 1
Moire made reappearance in an arresting
turnout of black; and Cecil Tait, recently
back from ’Murea, wore a dull-green skirt
of the same material with the dinkiest cream
silk coat spattered with wee embroidered
roses. And most attractive looked the
womenfolk whose choice of apparel ran to .
black velvet coats of the short sac cult
allied to check skirts. The W. Ardley couple
from Warrnambool, the R. A. Staughton
dame. Mrs. K. E. McCleland, Gaud Mayoress
Mrs. S. J. Morell and daughter Sheila, also
Jack Taylor, of North Sydney, and his bride,
who are honeymooning here, were of those
trying to pick winners.
The opening day of the polo tournament
at Moonee Valley racecourse was remarkable
neither for good polo nor smart frocking. The
State Governor, who was not of the players,
was present with Lady Somers, whose peri-
winkle blue jumper suit was covered with a
topcoat in fawn and brown patterning,
topped by a blue hat. The Alan Currie
couple, Mrs. G. A. Fairbairn, Joan Chirn-
sidc, some acaughtons, the Harry Creswicks,
the Jim Fairbain.s and other folk possessed
of names associated with the sport .lined up
their motor-cars around the ring for the first
contests for the Stradbroke Cup. Polo days
this week alternate with those of the V.R.C.
race meeting at Flemington.
Electric lights twinkled amid greenery
backed with flags at His Majesty’s when a
packed house made “Rose Marie’s” first
acquaintance. There were no frayed edges
or creases about the wardrobe, for the clothes
of the lengthy Sydney season were shelved
for new raiment of the finest. Indian girls
and shapely lassies in mountaineering woollen
outfits of white or dull green gaily striped
come first into view. Then follow changes
into modern frocks in blendings of lemon and,
pale green, mauve and Parma violet and blue,
witn yet prettier garments of white with
clouds of white tulle tying large crinoline
hats. The vividly-colored and weirdly-
patterned covering of the Totem Pole ballet is
reminiscent of a box of bon-bons. Graceful
Empire robes of gold tissue, with glimpses of
green to match the feathered millinery, are
displayed in the second act, the ladies’ part-
ners airing purple and fine linen. Last (but
certainly not least) are the many exquisite
Early Victorian bridesmaids’ gowns and
Harriet Rennet’s wedding robe of flounces
of lace and white satin and tulle.
Doris Johnstone gets into much smart
upholstery, and Stephanie Deste waves
in her chief solo dance a wondrous outsize in
fans of feathers shaded from gold to rust.
Heaps of flowers were passed up amid a
tangle of streamers as George Highland said
the usual thanks, Minnie Hooper, in frock of
petunia mauve, making her bow with the
producer.
Much gorgeous covering in the way of
capes, coats and shawls was contributed to
the festive occasion by the audience. Mrs.
Colin Frazer, whose white locks yet remain
unshingled, wrapped her tallness in a coat
of cream satin, with pink and green embroi-
deries and a sable collar. A turban of silver
' tissue dangling a long tassel above a cape of
black velvet and silver brocade caused a
simmer in the stalls. Numerous Taits looked
down upon the stage from d.c. boxes; also
the Geoffrey Syme dame, her daughter, Mrs.
Geolt Haggard, the Charlie Campbell matron,
and the George Tallis couple. Felix Lloyd’s
was a d.c. front-rower who had some
gold sequin decoration upon a black gown.
The Robinson lady and daughter Nan, Una
Nathan and h r fiance, Jack Christian, Gaud-
Mayor Morell, his wife and daughter, and
the Harold Clapps were of the first approvers.
The public rallied to the first performanc
of “Henry VIII.” on Saturday night unti
tuerc was not a seat left in the Princes:
Theatre. Allan Wilkie has arisen smiling
from his baptism of fire, and trails the red
robes of the Cardinal with dignity. Enthusiasm
ran high, and there was a rare assortment
of horticulture at the finish, with Allan
speaking his gratitude for help extended
when disaster overtook him. The Governor-
General’s lady smiled approval over her
presentation bouquet of tiger-lilies, which
cheered a gown of black lace and wrap of
beaten silver. In the next box was Lady
Somers, wearing a jade-hued cloak over a
glistening black gown, with a posy of roses.
General Grimwade and his wife, the Robert
Garrans, Senator and Mrs. Pearce and Dr
and Mrs. A. V. M. Anderson were of thos.
who said “Well done.”
The Charlie Wilsons are being rushed with
farewell parties and presentations. A num-
ber of matrons, keen to show their good-
wall to the departing ones, reserved a slice
of the Mia Mia, and pressed a posy, also a
handbag, on Mrs. Charlie, who has already
a cartload of such tokens. Mrs. H.
Mcßoberts, the organising spirit of this
occasion, did the talking. The guest of
honor, clad in a sleeveless coat over a cham-
pagne frock, concealed her emotions under a
felt vagabond hat in cyclamen toning.
. Nor ah Anderson took a bachelor farewell
of all her friends at the home of her sister,
Mrs. Norman Hutchinson, Malvern. Chap-
eroned by her mother, Mrs. Webster, she
subsequently boarded a car to motor over to
Adelaide, where she has a date with Lai
Stamp.
.The maiden, who looks in this Broothorn
picture as if she glimpsed a vision is Sylvia
Archer. Her
dream is of
success on the
stage. At pre-
sent she is a
member of
B e resford
Fowler’s
Little Art
company, and
has appeared
in productions
of “Hindle
Wakes,” “Ma-
jor Barbara”
and “W in-
do w s,” but
her biggest
opportunity to
date came in
“Fanny’s First
P 1 a y.” i n
w h i c h she
played Dora
to the life. In
between times she captains Girl Guides,
which must be good practice in restraint —
the thing uninstructed critics praise most
highly, in actors they can’t understand. She
can swim, too.
A white wedding was chosen by Alice Mar-
garet Cussen on Tuesday evening (Feb. 22). In
pale cool groups, white flowers blossomed on
the altar and at each pew-head in the Church
of the Immaculate Conception, Glenferrie.
The pearl-white sheath of satin which com-
posed the bridal gown was girdled with
orange blossoms. Petal georgette lined the
train of Limerick lace falling from the shoul-
ders, and a froth of tulle was bound to the
head with a wreath of blossom. Leo Cussen
gave his only daughter away. The maids,
Retta Morrissy and Jane Verney Smith,
wmre gleaming frocks of silver tissue, draped
with white georgette, confined with a twisted
sash which was clasped with a diamond buckle.
Their wide hats of white and silver were
trimmed with small posies, and each carried a
floral pink muff. The bridegroom was Charles
Vincent, son of the late J. Morrissey
(N.S.W.) and Mrs. Morrissey, and Pat Mor-
rissey stood by him. The articles were read
by Fathers Healy and Walsh, assisted by
Father Murphy, rector of Newman College.
The bride’s mother received later at .Crieveen,
Auburn, and there the wedding supper was
served.
Hugh R. Dent, of the publishing house of
J. M. Dent and Sons, has been in Mel-
bourne for a few days. Accompanied by
his wife, he is doing a world tour. His
life partner’s interests are centred in women’s
handicrafts, particularly that of working in
wrought silver and metal.
Clever Mona Nugent, who is a daughter
of Mr. and Mrs. P. Nugent, of Ivurrari,
Goulburn Valley, has gained the 3LO
scholarship for singing, which permits of
the lass having a full course of three years
at the University Conservatorium. A little
over a year ago Mona gathered the right to
add Mus. Bac. to her name, her manipula-
tion of the piano earning first-class honors.
Of .late she has dabbled successfully with tin;
viola, and now her light dramatic soprano
notes bring her further into the limelight.
This lovely lady is Mrs. H. L. Wilkinson,
who was aforetime Mireille de Civrieux. She
is French by birth, and Australian by adop-
tion, and lias
just estab-
lished a record
as an a 11-
round trip-
pe r. Twelve
months aso
she left Mel-
bourne with
her husband to
visit her old
home in Paris.
They left the
boat at Dur-
ban, and went
to Cairo
through Cen-
tral Africa, be-
coming person-
ally acquainted
with animals
most of us are
content to
glimpse in the
Zoo. In the
Belgian Congo they saw the Charleston
danced by natives as they have danced it
for the last thousand years. In Mos-
cow the couple listened to an orchestra
170 strong, which played without a conduc-
tor. The pair crossed the Caucasus Moun-
tains to Tiflis, a region where almost all
women are beautiful. The Caspian Sea
was crossed in a Soviet cargo-boat, and
then for 1000 miles the adventurous pair
motored across Persia. They visited Ispahan
and Shiraz, and saw the ruins of the Court of
i>arius, finally journeying to the Persian
Gulf through the steep passes of the Iraq
Mountains.
The Claude Macdonalds, who will step
ashore next week, visit us only occasionally
to inspect progress in their rich holdings.
This time they are bringing their son and
daughter. Mrs. Macdonald is a sister of the
Lempriere matron ; they were the handsome
Greene girls. For some years the Mac-
donalds have made London their home.
Mrs. Clive Steele staged a- jolly party at
Old Admiralty House to farewell the W.
Pulteney Meins, who with their family are
amongst the Cliitral passengers booked for
Europe, and the Clive Pratts, who are leav-
ing by the Ascanius. A longing for the
primitive life will land the latter pair in
Africa for a leisurely saunter up the east of
that continent. Before setting out for the
party Colonel Steele entertained the company
at a dinner served at Langleat, Toorak. The
hostess, in flame georgette liberally splashed
with gold, dangled a clutter of wooden orna-
mentations. Mrs. Mein was swathed in black
lace with an addition of georgette, and Clive
Pratt’s wife wore wine furnishings dripping
embroideries at the hem.
At the rate folks are rushing away from
this city we shall hardly muster a crowd to
welcome the Yorks. Colonel Ralph’s wife
hostessed a gathering at the Wattle on Thurs-
day afternoon to speed Mesdames J. L. Wil-
liam, F. H. Wright and W. Tackaberry, who
are off to the British Isles. Tea and con-
versation were dispensed in a floral-dressed
lounge by Mrs. Ralph, smiling under a crin.
hat dripping ospreys. The Chauvel lady
looked cool in chalk white, and Mrs. R. Wil-
liams was furnished in many colors. Mrs.
E. H. Cass, a smart frocker, clothed her
many riches in beige kasha relieved with a
much-embroidered collar, and Mrs. Wright
was a symphony in palest pink.
The Embassy reopened its doors on Satur-
day night, and there were so many after-
the-theatre parties that dancing was merely
a bumping of shoulders and shins, and the
Charleston became an impossibility. Jennie
Brenan flitted around in much sparkling
of black sequins, with interludes of
coral pink beads, and with sister Eileen
(wearing mulberry-hued draperies) gave
greeting to all. Marie Tait was in froth
of white tulle and satin and glimmer
of diamente. Beth Stuart, daughter of
the Frank Stuarts, of Lakes Entrance,
brought along her guests from a dinner
party at Menzies’ (it was to farewell the
Europe-bound Maisie, Hugh and David
Syme) to finish the evening with a hop. The
Richard Fitcher lady, wearing a coat o'
soft pink and silver over a gown which
was an echo ot the same in coloring with a
d f ‘ ot blue marshalled in the principals
ot the Rose Mane company and some of
their attendant relatives. Harriet Bennet’s
green frock was hidden beneath the luxury
of an ermine coat. The hostess gave further
hospitahty in a supper at her flat at the
Windsor Hotel.
A delayed wedding ceremony was a sen
sation of the week. The bridesmaids were
demurely tracked to the ankles, but the
padre in charge objected to the absence of
sleeves, and the unusual sight of shawl-envel-
oped attendants was seen when the pro-
cession finally got under way. Brides with
early dates are now reviewing the scanty
designs intended for their weddings, and : i
strike is one of the charming possibilities of
the situation.
Mrs. Macdonald, a leading light in the
Red Cross Association, is among our latest
arrivals. To make her known to fellow-
workers, Morrice Williams, chairman of the
central council, invited a few of the select
to draw up a luncheon chair at the Wattle
on Monday, and conversation drifted over
masses of Iceland poppies. Mrs. Wil-
liams, in a black and rose toilette, helped
to look after the guests, which included the
Miller lady and her knight, Miss Egan Bell
(N.S.W.), Colonel Courtney, and Mrs G
Irving.
Mrs. A. E. Ivimpton and daughter Mar-
jorie are struggling to keep abreast of the
wave of hospitality which threatens to
engulf them both before they board the
March liner for England, frocks and an orgy
of sight-seeing. D. E. Dessetors’s wife enter-
tained them at her Kew home, and Mrs. E
Wragge served tea to a large circle at her
house surrounded by the blue hills at
Canterbury. Then the F. Gardiner matron
came down from Ballarat and bid a circle
to an au-revoir cup at Menzies’ on Wednes-
day ; it was sipped amidst a forest of flowers.
Now Mrs. J. Thompson, a neighbor of the
departing ones at Toorak, has combined force;
with matrons Ashton and Wiseman for an
at-home, which is to be the farewell flutter.
Austral Salonites will hand round a far
well cup of tea on Monday, the 7th, to wish
a pleasant trip to ' Europe to Mrs. J. L.
{Stein, a member of the committee.
A few lines from Hobart:—
The indefatigible Mrs. Henry Dobson, though well
on the way to 90, is starting on another jaunt to
the Cold Country. She was entertained by her fellow-
members of the Victoria League, and freighted with
congratulations to Lady Jersey, now a D.B.E.
All was not plain sailing at the quarterly meeting
of the Victoria League, a dispute arising as to the
place where the League’s annual ball should be held
during the Yorkist visit. One section was all for
the big City Hall, whilst the opposition favored
the Town Hall, which can house only 300 or so.
When put to the vote the Town Hallites were badly
beaten.
Neville Edgeworth Somers is to succeed Captain
Stopp as A.D.C. to Governor O’Grady. The new
gent.-help did his bit in 1914-18 with the Ist Light
Horse Brigade. Two brothers made the supreni:
sacrifice. His father was an army surgeon in West
Africa.
An Adelaide budget:—■
An event of the week was the Grant-Lewis wed
ding at the Cathedral and the reception at the
South Australian. The bride, all white and silver
but for her bouquet of deep red roses, had for
bridesmaids Lilian Henderson and Alison Verco,
their green georgette frocks topped by pink vaga-
bond hats. Everything was O.K. except the weathe",
but fortunately the worst of the rain held off till
the transit from cathedral to hotel had been accom
plished.
From England comes news of the engagement of
Gwenyth, second daughter of the late Mr. and Mrs.
J. Edwin Thomas, to the Rev. S. E. Cornish, chap-
lain of St. Thomas’s Hospital, London.
Mrs. White (Miss Adelaide Napier that was) will
spend a couple of months in Adelaide during the
Yorks’ visit, and has taken the Edmund Fosberrys’
house in North Adelaide.
Home-comers include the Brooks and the Mnc-
Diarmids, from Colombo, and Miss Barbara Giles,
from England and America. Bishop and M.s
Thomas, bound for a trip overseas after 21 yen'
here, were farewelled at a huge conversazione a
the Town Hall, with George Murray in the.cha
and much appreciative oratory.
Mrs. Daisy Bates, who has been made a J.A
by the W.A. Government as “a small but well-
merited recognition of a lifetime sendee in the
interests of the Australian aboriginals,” is perhaps
equally well known in this State. For years she
has lived among the blacks, tending them in sick-
ness, winning their confidence and affection, and often
cut off for months at a time from everyone of her
Own race. There are few women in the world who
can have done nobler work than she for its own
sake among a vanishing race.
Mrs. William Campbell, who died at the begin-
ning of the week, had spent practically all her life
in North Adelaide, and most of it in the same
house, originally built for the late Abraham Scott,
and afterwards owned by her father. She remem-
bered the north side of the river when there were
more vacant paddocks than houses there. Her two
dauc liters are Mrs. Arthur Rymill and Mrs. S. H.
Ayliffe.


n
w
L/Yi
fed
MMO
Diamond d Sapphire Wrist" Wahch £BO
|y>
Diamond eSapphire Wrist - Wahch £2OO
I mm
H
U
Diamond Set - Wrist - Wat"ch £35
Never has the firm been able to offer such a large and varied
range of Diamond and Platinum Wristlet Watches. The selection
includes many new and distinctive .designs, and it can be confidently-
stated that nothing of finer quality could be obtained anywhere
in the Commonwealth. Priced at from £25, these Wristlet
Watches represent the very highest standard attainable, and merit
an early inspection.
The firm is also showing a selection of White Gold Wristlet
Watches, fitted with high-grade Movements, and priced at £B/8/-
upwards.
WMoMUMMOND) <£ CO
544-54® COILLDNSSIfMIELKdPUKNE
UNDERWOOD
Portable Typewriter
ms
“It takes all the drudgery out
of writing!”
Entrusted to the keys of the Underwood Portable writing
loses all its drudgery, becoming instead inviting and
congenial. To the professional or business man, the
pastoralist or traveller the Underwood offers innumerable
opportunities for conserving both time and energy an
lengthening leisure hours. The most inexpert can quickly
master its convenient attachments, gaining speed and
proficiency every time the cover is removed.
Use the Coupon to obtain full
details . No obligation is involved,
Stott & Underwood Ltd.
9-11 O’Connell Street, Sydney.
The Underwood Typewriter Agency,
91-93 William Street, Melbourne.
Post to G.P.O. Box 1556 E Sydney, or 91 William Street, Melbourne.
Pd like full details about the
Underwood Portable, without
obligation, of course.
Bulletin 3/'3/’27.
NAME
ADDRESS
A. Saunders* DIAMONDS
SPECIALLY-SELECTED, PURE PLATINUM SETTINGS
EXCLUSIVE DESIGNS.
A. Saunders’ 2 Dia-
monds, Oc&gon-
shaped Platinum
18ct. Gold Ring,
£2O.
asm
A. Saunders’ Single
Diamond-set IBct.
White Gold Ring,
£l5.
m
w.
A. Saunders’ Dia-
monds, Fancy Plati-
num-set 18ct, Gold
Ring, £2O.
A. Saunders’ Dia-
monds, set all Plati-
num Wedding Ring,
£25, £3O.
A. I Sau Pieon-
ist Ring, set Dia-
mond, 18et. Gold,
£4/10/-
A. Saunders’ 3 Dia-
monds, Octagon-
shaped Platinum
18ct. Gold Ring,
£l5.
A. Saunders’ Single
Diamond, Hexagon-
shaped Platinum
18c;t. Gold Ring,
£l5.
A. Saunders’ Diamond
Cluster-set Platinum
ISct. Gold Ring,
£4O.
A. Saunders’ all-
Platinum Wedding
Ring. £7/10/-
£B/10/-, £lO.
18ct. White Gold,
30/-
A. Saunders’ Diamond
Crossover, set Plati-
num 18ct. Gold Ring,
£7/10/-
A. Saunders’ 4 Dia-
monds, Octagon-
shaped Platinum
18ct. Gold Ring,
£l5.
A. Saunders’ Single
Diamond, Octagon-
shaped Platinum
18ct. Gold Ring,
'£2o.
A. Saunders’ Diamond
Hutton Cluster, set
Platinum, 18ct. Gold
Ring, £2O.
A. Saunders’ 15ct.
Gold Wedding Ring,
25/- ■
18ct. Gold. 30/-
A. Saunders’ Lady’s
9ct. Gold Signet Ring,
12/6.
A. Saunders’ 5 Dia-
monds, Octagon-
shaped Platinum
18ct. Gold Ring,
£2O.
A. Saunders’ Dia-
monds, set Platinum
18ct. Gold Ring.
£B5.
Mr- V\ Uss*.
V. P
A. Saunders’ Dia-
monds, fancy Plati-
num-set, 18et. Gold
Ring, £2O.
A. Saunders’ 9ct.
Gold Wedding Ring,
20/-
15ct. Gold, £2.
18ct. Gold,
£2 ! 10/-
A. Saunders’ Gent.’s
9ct. Gold Signet Ring,
20/-
15ct. Gold, 40/-
18ct. Gold. ijO,/-
Send for Free Gift Book. We Pay Postage on All Orders.
A. SAUNDERS
Watchmaker —Jewell er—Optician,
805-813 GEORGE STREET (opposite Railway Station), SYDNEY.
TO EUROPE IN 1927!
MAKE YOUR TRAVEL ARRANGEMENTS WITH
THOS. COOK & SON
Railway, Steamship and Tourist Agents,
ESTABLISHED 1841 165 BRANCHES.
PASSAGES Booked by All Lines at Tariff Rates.
Monthly Sailing List Issued Post Free.
TRAVELLERS’ Issued in Sterling and Dollars, in Notes
CHEQUES of £5, £lO, £2O and $lO, $2O, $5O, $lOO.
INCLUSIVE Tours arranged, including Hotel, Sightsee-
INDEPENDENT ing and Excursions. Any Route. Class of
TRAVEL Hotel and Travel optional. Itineraries
Prepared.
INCLUSIVE TOUR IN EUROPE , 50 Days for £BO
Pleasure Cruises to the Norwegian Fjords.
Motor-coach Tours in Great Britain.
ESCORTED TOURS IN EUROPE,
Visiting
ITALY - - SWITZERLAND - - FRANCE - - BATTLEFIELDS
BELGIUM - - HOLLAND - - and GREAT BRITAIN.
Fares include
Travel, Hotel, Meals while Travelling, Transfers between Stations
and Hotels, Sightseeing, Excursions, Gratuities, Fees, Guides and
Experienced Conductor.
Automobile Tour de Luxe from NAPLES .... 49 days, £396
Select First-class Tours from MARSEILLES .... 71 days, £302
Select First-class Tours from NAPLES 66 days, £283
Popular Escorted Tours from MARSEILLES ... 53 days, £179
Popular Escorted Tours from NAPLES 48 days, £166
Moderate Escorted Tours from LONDON 46 days, £124
DETAILED PROGRAMMES ON APPLICATION.
Monthly “TRAVELLER’S GAZETTE” Post Free
THOS. COOK & SON
MELBOURNE:
269 Collins Street.
SYDNEY:
Martin Place,
(Opp. G.P.O.)*
ADELAIDE:
49a Grenfell Street.
AUCKLAND:
N.Z. Insurance Building,
Queen Street.
WELLINGTON:
Government Life Building
(Next G.P.0.).


7
Q
li
1
A
m
NOT MADE DOWN TO A PRICE
It is NOT POSSIBLE to produce a
more VALUABLE Tennis Ball.
Every BARNET.GLASS TENNIS BALL ...
and Stitchless All Court is Manufactured
accordance with the
.Compression Standard
as well as every other standard
of the International Lawn
■■ Tennis Federation.
L Stitched
jred in
rd ■
■
n
u
sv
VMBI M
r
rl
TH,SS 3
s Ac e AND RUS
7% Stick
V A ‘•ATHER ONj
to * / ° S 'NG PLENTY °l
G? ' - • ■>
v Iff—/ sc« E /
x/vsnto »
N
p-.
N
T 7
% 'f
Williams’ Holder
Top Shaving
Stick is held by
a threaded metal
ring. No chance of
its working looss
in the Holder.
Its lather is famous
and the holder holds
Williams’ Shaving Stick works up quickly into a rich
lather—saturated with moisture —easy on the razor,
easier on the skin. But it has another great advantage.
That is the Holder Top. Each Williams stick and re-load
is made with a carefully threaded metal ring at its base
which fits easily and smoothly into the Holder Top.
Don t expect to get Williams results from other shaving
soaps. Williams soothes the skin, leaving it glove-smooth
and thoroughly conditioned. Buy a stick to-day and
brighten to morrow’s shave. Men who prefer Shaving
Cream, be sure to ask for Williams.
Williams
Holder Top Shaving Stick
Distributors: FRAZER & BEST LIMITED,
Brisbane, Sydney, Melbourne, Adelaide, Perth.
its?
$
<ho
NOBEL
For “good shooting”
you must have reliable
ammunition.
ALL-BRITISH
ELEY-
KYNOCH
Cartridges
are absolutely reliable under
ALL conditions.
Obtainable at all
Gunsmiths and Dealers
throughout Australasia.
Peapes’ ‘Warrtgal 5 Underwear
Medium Weight; All Wool
Guaranteed Unshrinkable
■ J
The fine, soft quality of Aus-
tralia’s best fleeces tuas never
utilised to better effect than in
this comfortable and protec-
tive underwear —a special pro-
duction byPeapes—which they
sell under the guarantee of
their own registered f WarrigaP
trademark.
Medium-weight Pure Natural
Wool Undershirts, half sleeves
34 36 38 40 42 44-in-
-15/ 15 - 16/- 17/- 18/- 19/-
Medium-tueight Pure Natural
Wool Underpants, full length
32 34 36 38 40 42 44-in,
16/-16/-17/-18/-19/-20/-21/-
PEAPES PAY POSTAGE
Please state chest and waist
measurements.
PEAPES & CO. LTD.
Men’s and Boys’ Outfitters
GEORGE STREET (opposite Hunter Street) SYDNEY
P.P.P. ( Peapes' Perfect Pipe) Well-seasoned Bruyere root,
smart narrow gold mount, handsome vulcanite mouthpiece,
all shapes, 12/6


n
SSSfif 1
£ -itfH
■M
JZJZUZTJ
r «-■■"■ i
\ V V V N
-V—~~v V N.
t • - i
Immediately you enter the Hotel
Windsor you realise the comfort
it affords and the modern service
at your command.
The
jfoMMmLot
Spring Street, MAbourne,
is indeed amongst Australia's
foremost residential hotels.
Charmingly located, convenient
and select to a degree.
Vou will be doing right
to register at the
“Windsor/’ and remem-
ber that it is always
advisable to book well
ahead.
Minimum Tariff
from 22/6 (inclusive)
Room and Breakfast
, from 15/-
' Telegrams and Cables:
‘Telwinsor.’ Melbourne.
’Phone: Cent. 9260.
Welcome the Coming—Speed the Parting Guest with
RESCH’S
LAGER, DINNER ALE,
PILSENER & STOUT
AUSTRALIA’S BEST BITTER,
RESCH’S BITTER ALE,
Ask for Them by Name—Keep in a Cool Spot.
Western Australian Distributors:
BURNS, PHIBP & CO., DTD., PERTH AND GERALDTON.
SPORTING
NOTIONS
There were 28 starters for the V.R.C.
Vewmarket Handicap at Flemington on Saturday, and
in the history of the race, which goes back to 1874,
there has seldom been a higher-class field. Heroic,
who had galloped well during the week, was favorite
—9 to 2 at the finish. Valicare, who looked in
urierb condition, was next on the list at 5 to 1;
then came Chrystal (6 to 1), Fuji San (8 to 1),
Gothic (10 to 1), Perspective, Adjong, Yea Princess
iwl Baringhup (25 to 1), Waranton, Comus, Biskra
ml Bravado (33 to 1), the others ranging from 40
to 200 to 1.
Heroic, who had drawn No. 12, the same marble
as last year, was a little stubborn at the barrier, but
the start was a good one, and his party had nothing
to complain about on that score. Triangle, Heroic,
Yea Princess, Valicare, Biskra, Chrystal and Baring-
hup were all prominent early, but Biskra, the hope
of S. Aus., was in charge at the second crossing,
with Chrystal, Valicare, Heroic, Fuji San and Bar-
inghup close up, Cairns being already hard at work
on the favorite. Two or three furlongs from home
Biskra and Chrystal were in front, and it was clear
that neither of the favorites would bother them. It
was still Biskra and Chrystal at the distance, but
Gothic, coming with a fine run and finishing as true
as steel, took command about 50 yards from home
and won brilliantly by a length from the S. Aus.
candidate, with little Chrystal the same distance
away third. Baringhup, Adjong and Valicare were
nearest of the others.
Gothic, who is a four-year-old English horse by
Tracery, sire of Pantheon, out of Sundrilla, is owned
by Sol Green and trained by Lou Robertson. Though
a maiden in England, he has been highly thought of
by owner and trainer since they imported him, but
a small race at Caulfield last year was his solitary
previous success, and an indifferent third to Chrystal
and Treylon in the Hawksburn Handicap at Caulfield
on the previous Saturday offered the public no en-
couragement to back him. However, the stable threw
in for a good win, though the commission was con-
fined to Melbourne. Carrying Bst. 101 b., Gothic ran
the “six” in lmin. 12 Jsee., time which has been
beaten on four occasions. Ashley Reed, who is having
a great season, rode him. Heroic and Valicare
round their heavy weights too much for them, and
Fuji San met with trouble when looking dangerous.
Bicolor, though a maiden and trained for sprints
merely, -was at 10 to 9 for the St. Leger—a farcical
price. Lanson was 4 to 1, Cyden 5 to 1, Epilogue
7 to 1, Cyanate 14 to 1 and the gigantic Bratza
20 to 1. Jones took Epilogue to the front soon
after the -start, and, cleverly slowing the field down,
was still'in charge half a mile from home. There
Bicolor, who was running third, met with inter-
ference; it is a moot point whether it affected the
result. Epilogue streaked away from the field at
this stage, and at the home turn was two lengths
clear of Lanson, with Cyden and Cyanate next. In
the straight, for a moment, Lanson looked like
making ■ a race of it, but Epilogue had plenty in
hand, and won in good style by li lengths from the
Oaks winner, with Cyanate 2£ lengths away third
and Cyden five lengths further back, just ahead of
Windbag’s brother. Epilogue, who is by Comedy
King—After Glow, is trained by H. McCalmgn for
Lachlan Mackinnon of Melbourne Aan us fame. A
lot was expected of him in the Spring, after he had
scored in a small race at Moonee Valley, but he
failed on several occasions when heavily backed. The
time, 3min. 7isec., was slow.
Pantheon had only two opponents in the Essendon
Stakes —the very disappointing Sailing Home and
the moderate Arendal. There was practically no
betting, Pantheon being nominally 12 to 1 on.
“Bunty” Brown took the favorite to the front almost
immediately, and he stayed there, for although Sailing
Home challenged him in the straight, Pantheon won
in easy style by two lengths from Norman Falkiner’s
black horse, with Arendal four lengths away. Much
more interesting was the Sires’ Produce Stakes, in
which the public would have nothing but Royal
Feast, even money being the best price on offer.
The favorite had a bad passage, and at the turn, where
Trivalve (8 to 1) Sion (6 to 1) and The Wensum
(20 to 1) were practically together, his chance looked
poor. However, once in the straight he came very
fast on the outside, and, sustaining his run, he
won by half a length from Trivalve, with Sion
11 lengths away, and The Wensum fourth. By
King ' Offa —Bunfeast, and therefore a brother to
Mercian King, Royal Feast is owned by W. E. j.
Craig and trained by R. Sinclair. He galloped
the 7 furlongs in lmin. 27|sec., and did it like a
stayer.
Bunkie (9 to 4) completed a fair day for backers
—three favorites scored—by winning the Brunswick
Stakes, 10 furlongs, in smashing style. Hitting the
front at the home turn, the Burrabadeen —Florenza
gelding came right away and ended up six lengths
in front of Victorian King (12 to 1), with Corn-
crake (15 to 1) another length .and a half astern;
the time was 2min. ssec. Jimmy Wilson’s horse
carried 131 b. more than the 6st. 91b. he was awarded
in the Australian Cup, for which race he immediately
became a warm favorite.
But: Wilson wasn’t destined to collect the Cup
prize, which was worth £2275 this year, or even
second or third money. The race went to gallant
THE IMPORTANCE OF BILL.
JIB HAND : “Never mind Bill —he can swim like a (kick. And we'll lose the race if toe
wait to pull him in."
DECK HAND : “We must pull him in, I tell y'. He's got the key of the whisky locker."
Spearfelt (5 to 1), with unlucky Naos second and
Pantheon third. It was a grand performance on
Spearfelt’s part, for he carried the record weight of
9st. 131 b., 101 b. more than his burden when he
won the Melbourne Cup. Receiving 21b. from
Pantheon, the son of Spearhead—Lady Champion
unmistakably proved himself a better stayer than
the English horse, and demolished the theory that
Pantheon would have triumphed at Flemington in
November but for Pike’s riding.
* * * #
Sydney bookmaker Frank Gahan has a
speedy mare in Lile Queen (Sir Dighton—Lile Lass),
but his brother-operators are so well aware of it
that it was “evens the field” when he tried to back
her for the Glenfield Handicap at Warwick Farm.
When Gahan’s commission had been placed, she was
5 to 4 on; and there were 15 runners. The bay
mare won easily from Pigeon Pie (8 to 1) and
Don Moon (12 to 1), but second and third will
improve before long, as also will the Queensland
sprinter Highland, who was just beaten for third
money. Considering his fine Bananaland record,
Highland is being nicely treated by the Sydney
handieappers. Veteran trainer Foley also has a
smart horse in the four-year-old grey gelding Spectre
(Chrysolaus—Virtu) ; going out at 6 to 4 for the
first division of the Intermediate Handicap, seven
furlongs, the grey won, pulling up, by four lengths
(he could have made it a dozen) in lmin. 274 sec.
Spectre had previously succeeded at the Farm, as
also had Duet (10 to 1), victorious in the February
Handicap, 10 furlongs—in fact, this daughter of
Bernard —Berceuse seldom wins anywhere else. Gleam
Boy and Sea Risk were the favorites for the 10-
furlong event, but Duet, Luddenham (7 to 1) and
Antistia (6 to 1) fought out the fini.-h; the margins
were half a length and a neck, and the time was
2min. Bsec. Imported Star Rocket (Rochester —
Lady Star) landed a small fortune for his party by
leading Anesete (15 to 1) and Goldbeater (5 to 1)
home in the Minto Handicap. He was backed from
12 to 1 to half that amount, but insiders got it
nearly all.
Some notable entries were made in the
Australasian record-book at the week-end. At
Melbourne, A. J. Wilson, of the Ivanhoe club, won
the 440 yards hurdles championship of his State in
54 9-10 sec., only 7-10 sec. slower than the world’s
record; and H. Witchall, a 17-year-old member of
the Essendon club, rode a push-bike 100 miles,
unpaced in 4hr. 39min. 49 l-ssec. At Sydney, Colin
Macdonald (Western Suburbs) ran three-quarters
of a mile in 3min. 13 l-ssec., clipping 4 l-ssec. off
the previous record; and at Brisbane Doris Thompson
gained the 220 yards breast-stroke title for Queens-
land in 3min. 27 2-ssec., l-ssec. faster than Agnes
Geraghty’s time at Paris in 1924. There is Olympic
material in that lot if the responsible bodies don’t
go to sleep on their job.
* * * *
Roy Moore, now billed as “The Arizona
Annihilator,” had shown such indifferent form against
fat-boy Edwards that not many Sydney Stadium
patrons bothered to see his meeting with the stocky,
short-armed Westralian, Ted Monson (list. 3lb. to
Moore’s list, 511 b.). The “Arizona Alligator,” as a
gentleman in “the sportsmen’s patch” called him,
fought better against Monson than against Edwards,
but he took more out of the Jarrahlander by hanging
on to the latter’s gloves and pulley-hauling him
around the ring than he did with his fists. Also,
he tried to hit in every break, in spite of the referee’s
frequent warnings. In the eyes of the Annihilator,
referees are supererogatory. Monson did nearly all
the attacking and, in spite of Moore’s occasional
spurts, won most of the rounds. In the sixth he
had Roy all but out with a right overswing to the
chin. In the seventh, however, Moore contrived to
split Ted’s right eyebrow', and the flow of ruby was
so copious that Monson retired to be sewn up by
the Stadium medico, Moore getting a lucky verdict-
An extraordinary demonstration of the effect of
a hard punch to the point of the chin was witnessed
in one of the preliminaries. The subject was Jerry
Reilly, 6ft. 3in. and 12st. 3lb. ; the demonstrator was
Bill Grogan, 12st. Bill’s hands almost touched the
floor as he sat in his chair and there was as much
hair on his chest as a retriever dog has on its
saddle. In the first round, Grogan, a left-hander,
hit Jerry and Jerry hit the floor. He lay there with
a horrible strained glare in his eyes till carried to
his corner. Then he found his feet, but neither
cajolery nor force could make him sit down. He
just stood, rejecting attention, and turning a yearning
gaze over his shoulder towards the south-west terrace.
To coaxing and authority he was deaf, snapping like
a peevish kid at every effort to awaken him to his
surroundings. It was fully 10 minutes before he
realised that he’d been knocked out, and reluctantly
emptied himself,. still muttering, through the ropes.
* * * *
Melbourne figlit-fanciers saw a willing set-
to when Billy Samuels (lOst. 2Jlb.) bumped against
Bob Jackson (lOst. 101 b.), of Old England. After
using a wild right for four rounds, mostly on the
smoke-polluted atmosphere, the abo. managed to
sock it home on the Jackson midriff in stanza five.
Jackson took a count of eight, and on rising was
knocked out. Bananaland’s black basher' has in-
stilled such fear into the Melbourne leather-pushers
in his class that he finds it difficult to get matches.
Jackson is now sorry he obliged.
* * * *
“Mars”: This year’s lacrosse match
between Oxford and Cambridge was remarkable for
the fact that each team was captained by a South
Australian. Victorious Oxford was led by M. L.
Formby, S. Aus. llhodes Scholar for 1925, and J.
Bonython, a grandson of the proprietor of the
Adelaide ’Tiber, skippered Cambridge, in which team
was included another Croweater in Napier Birks.
Formby, who threw four goals, received good support
from R. Sholl (Melbourne), A. J. Foote (Sydney)
and F. W. Johnson (Perth). C. W. Arnold, formerly
of Sydney, played a great game for the losers.
* * * *
The air was full of Moths at Essen-
don (Vic.) on Saturday, when the first round of the
Cobham trophy competition and the first of the
monthly medals offered by the Vic. branch of the
Australian Aero Club were contested. To gain the
monthly Cobham trophy, one must land first with
engine on and then with it stopped 300 feet above
the sod; then hit a target 60 feet across with a
bag of powder, an innocent substitute for the weighty
missiles shed from bombing ’planes in France; and
finally slaughter a toy balloon. The man to come
out of this picturesque ordeal with the most points
was F. Neale, who has had a good deal of experience
of war and civilian flying. Amongst other competitors
who held the joystick in sterner times were H. A.
Rigby, J. S. Black, R. Francis, F. C. Penny and S.
Dalrymple. Judging by the enthusiasm and skill
Shown by some of the newest pupils, the Aero Club
has no cause to be ashamed of its recent progress.
* * * *
Before they had finished, the 160 heroes
and 45 heroines who started on the three-mile swim
through Melbourne on Saturday wished the marathon
had begun higher up, where the Yarra could almost
be described as pearly. By the time they reached
Princes Bridge, the winning post, they were battling
with an adverse tide, and the condition of theiv
bodies was worse than slimy. Still, only two femi-
nine starters and 40 males had sought the repose of
the bank before the end, and the final spurt showed
that surprisingly few of the contestants were even
moderately winded. The 17-year-old winning mer-
maid, Miss D. McPherson, of Richmond, was lhr.
30min. 46sec. in the fluid; but better time was put
up by Miss D. Greenbury, of Hawthorn (lhr. 27min.
33sec). J. Crawford, of Ivanhoe (lhr. 18min. 21sec.),
won the men’s event, and J. Wilson (Y.M.C.A.)
secured the prize for fastest time (llir. 13min.
lOsec.). Thousands of spectators' spread themsqjves
along the course, and at least 12,000 were at the
finishing post. The last participant to lob in
deserves notice. He started at 2 p.m. and arrived at
six minutes to six.
*• * * *
“15-80”: Now that Australia lias again
decided to be a distant spectator of the Davis Cup
contests, we might profitably employ the interval
in an intensive campaign to improve the national
backhand. This defect, conspicuous in Anderson,
often scandalous in Patterson, is the radical cause of
our failure to lift the trophy in recent years. All
Patterson’s headlong service, all the science that
tlawkes can muster in a crisis, will not prevail
against Americans and Frenchncm who are armed
for an offensive on either hand. Tilden has a back-
hand battery stronger than his forehand, and those
who have faced the latter have only too pathetically
realised its deadliness in pace and placement. In
the Commonwealth the weakness is so prevalent that
no one who has acquired the ordinary forehand routine
need pursue his education on the other hand in
order to reach A-grade pennant standard and even
take a respectable number of games from the stars.
Youngsters, moving up from the ruck, are not taught
to develop a blistering backhand drive with the
same amount of smack and overspin that they impart
to its forehand brother, nor are they invited to
consider the importance of the shot when they see
an Anderson calmly running round to take back-
hand shots on his forehand, and a Patter&on scooping
them up like the “lollies” in a girls’ school tourna-
ment. The press experts, who periodically advise
the young on the beauties of courtcraft, the arts of
volleying and interception and the various graces
of team-work, might do better if they plastered their
articles with tflis variation of the Danton slogan:
“Backhand, more backhand, and still more back-
hand.” Concentration on backhand might enable us
to stage a Davis Cup here in two or three years.
* *"■’ * * *
“Centurion” : The decision of the Austra-
lian Lawn Tennis Association to permit J. O. Ander-
son, now a professional, to play with amateurs in
exhibition matches can only be described as the
limit in vacillation, a quality for which our tennis
heads are becoming notorious. The American, Brit-
ish and other European bodies refuse to permit the
practice, even for charity, if there is a gate or
payment to a player attaching to it. In this
instance, Anderson will tour with amateurs in gate-
money exhibitions, and will be paid for doing so.
The L. T. Ass. tries to save its face by explaining that
the net gates will be devoted to tennis only, and that
State associations will have full control of exhibitions.
The final proviso- is delicious: “The net proceeds
are to be arrived at only after the. payments charged
by Anderson” —the italics are mine. In other words,
the association is making a present of unrivalled
publicity to Anderson, and paying him for it. At
the same time it is risking the censure of the
international L. T. authorities, and making a laugh-
ing-stock of itself and the law's of amateur sport,
for the sake of cleaning up a good gate in the
various States through which the circus will pass.
* * * *
“NakUoda” : The introduction of tin liares
.into coursing (B. 24/2/’27) suggests possibilities.
Why shouldn’t all this destruction of bright young
motorists be obviated by the use of wirelessly-
controlled motor-cars and bikes? . Why shouldn’t
the cruel toll taken of jockeys and mounts be pre-
vented by the employment of electric horses, especi-
ally since those which found themselves back to
front when the barrier went down could simply
reverse engines and go astern to victory ? Then
mechanical pugs, some of them painted black to
represent the favorite imported coon, would save
a lot of nasty bloodshed in the stadiums, and
engineers instead of bruisers would become the
nation’s heroes, with consequent improvement to its
moral tone. Of course, audiences would soon cease
to attend such spectacles, but then they could listen
in at home as'they already do to plays. Then only
tin soldiers need be sent to the next war and cam-
paigns would be bloodless, provided the enemy
observed the same rules, instead of showing an in-
convenient affection for primitive bash and bleed.
* * * *
“Bast Grammar”: Longreach (C.Q.) lias
never incurred the reputation of being mean, but
recently the prosperous and festive pastoral centre
decided to button its pockets. It advertised for a
coach to instruct its Rugby League football team.
Among the replies was one from Jimmy Craig, some-
time of Balmain (N.S.W.), the Kangaroos and the
Sydney Uni. League side, and nowadays coaching
at Ipsw'ich (Q.). James asked £3O a week for
his services, but Long-reach reckoned £l5OO a year
for coaching a professional game was beyond its
means. Mere craning at a stiff fence. Why, Harry
Chauvel, Inspector-General of Australia’s Defence
Forces and one of the most brilliant leaders in
the late vrar, gets almost as much as that. And
w'hat League football barracker will have the nerve
to say that a man with Jimmy’s standing in the
public eye isn’t worth more than a flaming brass-hat?
THE SPORT OF SOVEREIGNS.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“King Alfonso of Spain is taking part in a polo
tournament at Mentone.”
Kings are kings—and they may be pawns
Pushing at balls on the croquet lawns,
Doffing a head with gracious mien
To Francis Drake on the bowling green....
Here’s a tale that is told again
(Hats off, men, to the King of Spain l
King Alfonso of stately Spain,
Playing the sport of kings again).
Haven’t you neard the rising sound:
Beefy cheers on the polo ground?
Five more minutes are left for play!
(“flow many minutes did you say?”)
Jumble of ponies and clashing sticks,
Snort from a horse as the wet spur pricks,
Flash of a coat from the cursing ruck,
Sick’ning crack of a white ball struck.
Out of the crush streaks the chestnut colt,
After the ball like a thunderbolt;
“Hide him off !". . . .and the hard hooves pound,
Churning dust off the polo ground;
Bend of rider, unerring swing,
Flies the ball to the waiting wing:
“Hide him 0ff!” .... and the ponies strain....
Number one’s on the ball again!
Only a minute left for play !
(“Only a minute did you say?”)
Number one’s in the hurtling van;
Ride him off if you can, old man !
Watch the ball at his pony’s feet,
See the grace of the rider’s seat;
Back is racing to guard his goal,
God ! The man’s on a draught-mare’s foal!. ...
Click of the ball by her lifted hooves,
Roar of cheers as the grey mare moves,
Lightning turn and the pair flash in:
Flag goes up.... and the pale blues win !....
O, ye kings with your golden crowns,
Come you now to the out-back towns:
Rush of ponies on sunburnt plain,
Playing the sport of kings again.
Harden, Cooma and Dunedoo,
All have kings for an hour or two.
Watch the ball as a horse veers in—
Minute to play and a goal to win!
That’s a tale will be told again
After there isn’t a King of Spain
King Alfonso of stately Spain,
Playing the sport of kings again.
N.S.W.
GILBERT MANT.


Are tiou U P in i
or*'
down in
the mouth ?
Success is largely a
matter of correct
nutrition
ĥ
S tart drinking Instant-
Pos t u m to-morrow
morning. You’ll be de-
lighted with its flavour.
Your grocer has Instant
Postum. Order a tin
to-day !
1M O one knows better than the success-
-1 ” ful man what dividends Nature
pays to those who keep her simple laws.
And no one knows better than the
unsuccessful what toll she takes from
those who break them.
The appetising flavour of Instant Pos-
tum has made it the best-liked health
drink in the world. Once you have
learned how good it is you will look for-
ward to it with anticipation every day.
And once it has become a regular part of
your health programme, take stock of your-
self and see how much better you feel.
Instant/Postum
o
Wholesale Agents: Lewis & Cull, 316 Pitt Street, Sydney
The Wonderful "Lock-Grip” Wire Strainer
Simple, Powerful, Rapid.
TIME, MONEY AND ENERGY SAVED.
Here is a tool that absolutely eclipses anything
invented for the straining of fencing wires.
It saves hours on a job. Joins, tightens and
repairs with the utmost ease. Its enormous
concentrated power makes light of any fencing
work—the hardest tensile wire cannot slip
through the “Lock-Grip.”
Weighs only 41b., measures 14 inches. It can
be carried in your pocket, yet it will pull your
motor-car out of a bog.
Get one and test it—there’s no risk. Failure
or breakage impossible. Thousands sold —
everyone delighted.
Price 30/- each. Victorian postage, 1/6:
Interstate, 2/8 (plus exchange).
Obtainable everywhere, or write the Agents:—
S. COHEN, SONS & CO. PTY., LTD.,
Hardware Merchants,
262 Queer. Street, MELBOURNE.
Agents 'wanted where not represented.
Babies
thrive on
ħ
it is so
nourishinq and
easy to digest
In 4 sizes
©fall Chemists & Scores
DAN KS mdem
ImUpapav
Create ttie atmosphere of
the past or the present
Wallpapers are the vogue. Decoration is the effect reached for in
the modern home. Backgrounds, suitable for the contents of well-
furnislied rooms, are provided for, by the use of the best English
and American Wallpapers.
We are specialising in these and have many of the 1927
designs in hand. They stand our brilliant lights and
sun, and are in accord with the furnishing spirit
of the times.
Call in to our Showrooms in cither Sydney
or Melbourne and inspect them, or write
for samples.
' Modem
Wallpapers
in a
Modern Showroom
Our Showrooms have been
designed on generous lines, as
suitable mediums for the dis-
play and sale of wallpapers.
The wallpapers are displayed
on revolving screens. You
can inspect a large number
in a few minutes, rfiaking
your selection easy.
Papers are priced in propor-
tion to the value of the
building in which they are
to be used, without sacrifice
of good taste.
We cordially invite you to
call and inspect; also
Electric Light Fittings.
Sanitaryware.
Electric and Gas Cookers.
Builders’ Hardware.
Mantels, Grates, Tiles.
Electric Glow Logs.
Ideal Hot-water Systems.
Kitchenware.
Write for prices of lines you
require.
fe < Si\ f
mm
V#S r ‘
,i- - ..!
»
I?**?
r.'*
'-. ’
■■» "■’
m
H
k W
sL
US***??;
■
’■ ’ £ !
.-*■ —■" " '• —j
©"
John Dams&Son Pty Ifc!
324*330 PITT ST. SYDWEY
391403 BOURKE ST., MELBOURNE.
THE INKY WAY.
The Listening-Insect : Another step
the elimination ot the daily paper was taken
when 3DB opened for business on top of
the flamboyant Capitol building in Mel-
bourne. This new broadcasting-station (500
watts 255 metres) proposes to follow an
American example and get its revenue from
the casual small advertiser, instead of from
license fees. In future, the old lady who
has mislaid her l’om. and the sheik who got
the glad-eye rrom the girl at St. Kilda but
misseu her in the crowd can make inquiry
for their lost ones via the ether. The radio-oil
advertisements are to be cunningly inter-
spersed with jasz and song.
“Autolycus” : Poor Dick Harris, notice of
whose death appeared in the Inky Way
recently, left his philosophy of life in a little
rondel published just before lie died
Are you wiser, you who call
Sancho fool ? Could you have said:
“Still there’s sunshine on the wall,”
If there lacked of wine and bread?
The brave little verse witli its undernote of
tragedy was published in the Artists’
Annual, a collection of the work of the
Dominion’s leading comic artists and cartoon-
ists, past and present, with Pat Lawlor as
editor.
From the “Fifty Years Ago” column of
Adelaide Register :
A correspondent informs us that the health of
the inhabitants of Crystal Brook is so good that
the only undertaker in the district has in despair
sold his hearse, which is now employed by a
butcher as a meat-cart.
An item like that would invite a libel action
nowadays, but in 1877 it was apparently
regarded as no more than a stroke of humor.
“Wee John”: The Sun, Auckland’s new
evening daily, is to make its appearance on
March 23. Crisp and Riley, of the parent
Christchurch Sun, are to be editor and asso-
ciate editor respectively, while Gordon L.
Stanbrooke, now on the Herald, will be chief
of the reporting staff and city news editor.
All three have had wide experience; Stan-
brooke held some good jobs in California
during the war period.
“Hamer”: Sydney Morning Herald is
moving with the times. Some of the momen-
tum is attributable to a young man named
Pen ton, who joined the staff as a junior
two years ago. He is responsible for the daily
column of comment on Parliament, which
is uncommonly bright' and humorous. Teuton
is one of the lidless legion, and his hatless
head is becoming a feature of the near-parlia-
mentary landscape.
“Wee John” : Henry Brett left an estate
worth £350,000 as tangible evidence of his
success with the Auckland Star and other
publications. Various philanthropic societies
and institutions benefit under the will, and
the older hands on the Star were not for-
gotten. These bequests' and death duties will
just about knock off the odd £50,000; the
balance goes to the widow and relatives.
“Beam” : George C. Dixon, late of Mel-
bourne Herald, and now literary editor of
London Daily Mail, is thinking of visiting
America at the end of the year to lecture
on his adventurous trip through China,
Siberia and Red Russia. George Jean
Nathan, the dramatic critic, who makes a
habit of doing kindnesses for all sorts of
brothers in Ink, engineered the introductions
that secured Dixon the offer with which he
is being tempted.
“Bill Bowyang” : When we were arguing
the point witli Abdul in Palestine, the heads
knew that I was contributing to Tiie Bul-
letin, and the O.C. of my unit was warned
to keep a special eye on me. In Cairo, I
could have entrusted my MS. to sick or
wounded Diggers returning to Australia, but
in Palestine this was impossible. It was a
simple idea I hit on at last; placing my
“copy” in the well-known green envelope, I
addressed it to S. 11. Prior, 214 George-street,
Sydney. If the censors had dropped to it
that the letter would go straight to the office
of the paper whose columns they scanned
so carefully when the mail arrived in Cairo,
my last avenue of sending stuff to Australia
would have been blocked. But they never did.
“Utopia”: “Old Unionist” (B. 10/2/27)
hardly gets the whole difference between
anticipation and realisation into his remarks
concerning the founding of the Labor press.
The enthusiasm of old hands was directed
to a journalism that was to give uncolorcd
news and unbiased reports, and eschew
advertisements inciting t’o gambling, drinking
and similar low capitalistic habits. The new
journalism w r as to devote columns to sane
political economy, and to be a bulwark
against wars started merely to draw the
workers’ attention from their chains. Where-
as, after the collection of much money, we
see leading examples of the Labor press
in holts with their own people for misrep-
resenting them; bribery plots and Fascist
attacks evolve out of a void; bill-boards feat-
ure wars every morning .or two, always with
Britain getting it in the neck from someone;
and the best self-recommendation by which
subscriptions are sought is allegedly succes-
ful race-tipping.
“John Cow”: The reappearance of W. A.
Holman in the columns of Sydney Sunday
Times, of which he is a director, recalls an
amusing effort of that paper during the
1919 election. As the preferential voting
system made it very improbable that the
result would be known for some days, it
had three leading articles set in type on the
day of the election. The first gleefully
announced a great Nationalist victory, the
second wept buckets of blood over a Labor
win, and the third, headed “Mr. Holman s
Persona! Triumph,” proclaimed that, win.'
most of the issues were still in doubt, it wa*
quite clear the Premier had retained the con-
fidence of his electors. Unfortunately, how-
ever, Cootamundra turned Holman down
with a bang, and he faded out of politics
entirely. After that the Times stuck to
tipping racehorses.
“ILK.” : The N.S.W. Government Gazette
will be able to celebrate its centenary in
ano„ther five years. It came into being on
March 7, 1832, “for official purposes to
supersede other journals.” It was a inodes
two-pager, costing Is. 6d. The initial issue
contained an invitation for tenders for the
supply of 2000 gallons, of West Indies rum,
after which appeared an announcement to
the effect that the Church Corporation Office
desired offers from persons willing tp make
additions to St. James’s Church.


• *
i»g
. i
WM
m
:V: - : :
igamaiaswagp
il»
mm
m
m
J.y\
'
Ns*,
SHORT ROAD, WILLI AM STOW N, VICTORIA.
CONSTRUCTED FOR—The Country Roads
Board .
CHAIRMAN OF THE BOARD— W. Ca/der,
Esq., M. Inst . C.E.
ENGINEER IN CHIEF—A. E. Callaway, Esq .,
C.E,
CONTRACTORS Concrete Constructions
PTY ,, LTD .
h
ĥ
The introduction of B.R.C. Fabric Reinforcements
made the reinforced road bed a practical proposition.
Australian Reinforced Concrete Engineering Co
Pty. Ltd.
Consulting and Designing Engineers,
Normanby Chambers, 430 Little Collins Street, Melbourne.
’Phone: Cent. 8861. Works: Sunshine, Victoria.
rrrrrrrrrrmrnTrr
Sole Distributing Agents
VICTORIA . Gollin & Co. Pty., Ltd., Melbourne.
NEW SOUTH WALES . . J. Wildridge & Sinclair, Ltd., Sydney.
QUEENSLAND J. Wildridge & Sinclair, Ltd., Brisbane.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA . . Elder, Smith & Co., Ltd., Adelaide.
WEST AUSTRALIA . . . Elder, Smith & Co., Ltd., Perth.
TASMANIA Hume Pipe Company (Aust.), Ltd., Hobart
NEW ZEALAND A. C. Gillies & Laird, Wellington.
• •
rrrrrrrnurmmi
(TfrrrrrirrrnTOi
'SS^SSSS


The Australian Provincial Assurance Association Limited
HEAD OFFICE: 77 KING STREET, SYDNEY.
Directors; Messrs. WM. NORTHAM (Chairman), T. \V. RAPLEY (Managing Director), ALEX. KING, P. R. HIGGINS, and Dr. E. MORRIS HUMPHERY.
Total Assets exceed. . . . . . £1,724,000
BRANCHES: Melbourne, Brisbane, Adelaide, Perth, Hobart. NEW ZEALAND: Wellington, Auckland, Christchurch, Dunedin.
SOME REASONS WHY YOU SHOULD INSURE WITH THE A.P.A.:
(1) Because in the event of total disablement for life all future premiums
will be paid by the Association and no deduction made from policy or
bonuses.
<2) Hospital Benefits are given with every Life Policy applicable to public
and private hospitals, varying in amount according to the sum assured
and no deduction made from policy or bonuses.
(3) In the event of loss of eye or limb through accident, a quarter of the
sum assured will be paid forthwith, and the premium reduced propor-
tionately.
(4) PERSONAL ACCIDENT and Combined Benefit Policies provide for
almost every contingency.
GEO. PEACOCK. A.C.1.5., Secretary.
NO EXTRA PREMIUM IS CHARGED FOR THESE BENEFITS
Probate, Children’s Education and Finance Policies specialised.
Applications for Agencies invited from men of integrity.
T. W. RAPLEY, Managing Director.
SUNDRY SHOWS.
SYDNEY s*ll* A' S FOR COMIN.G WEEK.
Her Majesty's “Tell Me More ’
Criterion “Tea tor Three
Royal P* ln^ es ® c ld iL
St. James Is Zat So.
Fullers’ • • y, au< J evl .l! e
Tivoli Vaudeville
MEI 801 RNE SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Ills Majesty’s “Rose Marie”
King’s “The Last of Mrs. Cheyney
Royal “Sweet Nell of Old Drury”
I’r.ncebV ;• “Henry VIH.;;
AtiieXjEUM “The Ghost Train
Tivoli Vaudeville
Bijou Vaudeville
Majestic Moving Pictures.
jj oyt > s Moving Pictures.
«.
Billed like a circus, Sydney’s new Empire
Theatre opened on Monday with ‘ ‘Sunny ;
the show started at 7.45 and ran until 11.35
—and then there were speeches. ‘Sunny
is a light revue miscalled a musical comedy;
there arc some bright blooms in the garden,
but some large patches badly need weeding.
Sunny, the bright particular star of the
circus run by her impecunious father,
meets a bunch of Americans with whom she
first became acquainted when doing some
vague sort of work near the war front; and,
being threatened with an unwanted husband,
and very much in love with one of the
bunch, she runs away and stows herself on
board the ship which is taking the Yanks
home. The man she loves is otherwise
engaged, and doesn’t realise his matrimonial
destiny until the last scene; so, to over-
come the passport difficulty, she marries
Jimmy Deering on the understanding that
there is to be a divorce directly the parties
are safely landed. Jimmy is also otherwise
engaged; but then he is the comedy man,
and a playwright can do almost anything
he likes with the comedy man. Out of the
trouble that follows with his sweetheart,
who pursues the outfit, all the characters
finally sort themselves, and range up sud-
denly with the right partners for the cur-
tain-fall.
* * * *
The management lias been crudely boun-
teous with details; even a pack of beagles,
with not a bark among them, is dragged
across a first scene to lead verisimilitude to
an otherwise unconvincing hunting scene.
The best scene is the saloon on the Atlantic
steamer, which is the setting for a very fine
and tuneful finale to the first act; but why
in a saloon which has a magnificent stair-
way leading, presumably, to tbe deck and
a view of the ocean, there should be a large
arched window looking out on trees, is one
of those mysteries peculiar to revues. The
music is of a jaunty variety, Ayith one or
two items on a higher level; “Who?” “Sun-
shine” and “Two Little Blue Birds” are
numbers tliat score well. The dialogue is
poor stuff, and a number of old gags are
dragged in by the whiskers. A bright pony
ballet dancing on legs entirely Australian
should prove the show's best asset when it
is edited into decent shape; but the specialty
dances of Marion and Maltinez Randall are
excellent also. In the cast, Fred Ileider,
a light comedian with a capacity for
being hideously lugubrious, and feet that
are an additional capital, scores best with
rather poor material; on the comedy side he
had good assistance from Fred Bluett, as
Siegfried Peters, the father of Sunny, and,
in a lesser degree, from Van Lowe, as Harold
Harcourt Wendell-Wendell, whose dancing
in the last act is his best recommendation.
Tom Warren, a lover looking something like
an amateur pug., sings his amorous ballads
in a surprisingly gentle voice; and, as Sunny
herself, Wyn Richmond lives up to the name.
The midget Beatrice Kay, as “Weenie” Win-
ters, the sweetheart of Jimmy, is another
conspicuous success; but none of the others
show any particular evidence why people
should be imported for a show that might
have been filled in its minor parts with local
selections. Incidentally, Fred Bluett, as
the best-known local identity, got a reception
on the opening night that made him blush
through his greasepaint.
“Tell Me More,” which started its history
at Her Majesty’s, Sydney, on Thursday, is
conventional musical-comedy ‘paste, given a
diamond sparkle by its brilliant setting. Such
story as it contains concerns the love affair
of the affluent Kenneth Dennison with a
girl whom he meets at the Three Arts Ball
and tracks to a millinery establishment
where she is employed, her social status
having vanished with her deceased father’s
fortune. Several comedy merchants are also
supplied with best-girls and concomitant
troubles to furnish material for songs
i ml j dances and humorous dialogue. The
management lias seen to it by this time that
the comedy winds up safely long before
11.25, at which hour the performance
finished on Thursday. The week-night open-
ing is an original feature; another is the
scene which displays two boxes over-
looking the Three Arts Ball, the auditorium
being made to act for the ballroom, so that
any dear creature in the audience is liable
to blush furiously when Gus Bluett shouts
as his linger points directly at her, “There
she is!” The music is fair, though there is
nothing likely to supply new melody to the
early morning milkboy; numerous bright and
lively dances are well executed by a bevy of
beauty dubbed by the management “the
supreme sixteen”; there are special dances
by Thurza Rogers and Robert Lascelles,
of the Pavlova co., and the scenery—especi-
ally the delightful final setting—and dressing
leave nothing to be desired.
-***•*
The comedy is the main ingredient, and
here Gus Bluett, as Billy, the silly-ass
brother of Peggy'Yan de Lour, scores at least
as Avell as Leo F'ranklyn, who pre-
sents Monty Sipkin, head salesman at the
millinery establishment, and the possessor of
evening apparel that miraculously becomes
morning dress—an idea that should appeal
to those gay boys who find themselves miles
from home when the time nears for return
to the office. The funny pair get helpful
feminine support from Floie Allen, although
she does not quite fulfil the promise of
smaller parts, and Dorothy Lena. Margery
Ilicklin’s light voice scarcely answers all the
requirements of the music supplied to her.
but she slithers brightly over her few vocal
difficulties, and makes a bright and pleasing
Feggy, for whom Leyland Hodgson is a satis-
fying lover. Huge Steyne is tamely useful
as the manager of a hotel that is mainly
open-air views; Harry Wotton makes good
burlesque of the part of a stout tourist,
Cyrus P. Tyler; and the Mamie of Ivy
Parker and the Mrs. Wallace of Rosee lc
Varde call for a word of commendation.
It has been so much a habit to regard
“The Mikado” as the most popular of Gil-
bert and Sullivan’s works that the Firm,
which gave it an advantage of a week over
the other plays, is probably disappointed to
find it not so striking a draw as some of
the preceding productions. Houses are still
on the capacity basis; but the necessity o f
turning away people nightly is not so much
in evidence. “The Mikado” finishes to-mor-
row (Friday) week, with “Princess Ida”
ready to step in on the following day.
There is no change in the cast of “Is Zat
So?” which has looked into St. James
Theatre for a revival season. The breezy
story, with its direct, robust appeal to sen-
timent and laughter, carries its best recom-
mendation in the well-drawn work of Richard
Taber as the mutton-headed but honest pug
and Hale Norcross as his “shrewdie” trainer;
and that remarkable infant Bruce Walker
is now playing the child with a capacity
“THE MIKADO;’ AT SYDNEY ROYAL.
Bernard Manning as the Mikado, and
Charles Walenn as Ko Ko.
to hide the fact that he is merely playing it
that would do credit to a veteran.
“Tea for Three” is entertaining much larger
audiences at the Criterion Theatre, and,
although there have been hints of a “Green
Hat” production, Megrue’s comedy may last
out the Judith Anderson season. At the
G.O.H. Nellie Bramley has been so success-
ful in the “Fair and Warmer” revival that
no change of atmosphere will be required
there until Frank Neil introduces “The Ner-
vous Wreck” on March 12. “Hullo, Ilealo !”
is giving the Palace Theatre an experience of
full houses and brightness ; but the Repertory
Society, which has been promised the theatre,
is knocking at the door with the impatience
of a boarder who is kept waiting for his
bath. The last memory of Christmas van-
ished from Sydney last Saturday when
“Jack and the Beanstalk” made a festival of
the farewell night at the St. James Theatre.
Seats at the Town Hall are selling like
hot cakes for next Saturday week and some
following nights, the reason being the re-
appearance of Paderewski.
** * *
A rebellion in art: —
A feeling that they and “the true Australian out-
look in art” have not been given a fair deal has led
a number of artists to form the Australian Art
Society. It is a revolt of a sort, but a very quiet and
gentlemanly one judging from the pictures exhibited
in the gallery of the Department of Educa-
tion. The general impression is one of correct tech-
nique, with a very limited outlook in the greater
"HENRY THE HORRIBLE" AT
MELBOURNE PRINCESS.
Oardinal Wilkie-Wolsey wondering where his
train has got to.
part of the work, though the quality is good in
the main. In the 223 offerings, those of A. Marriott
Woodhouse stand out; his “The Brass Pitcher” is
an adroit bit of work, and his “Iceland Poppies”
rivals it; but a portrait study is rather hard in its
lines. H. C. Hadley’s best are “Misty Morning”
and “Quig’s Farm, Burragorang” ; H. AV. Cotton has
a method of treatment that grows monotonous, but
the drawing is generally good and the coloring
truthful, although some of the distances, as in
“Harbor, from Taronga,” are poorly rendered —a
boat in Rose Bay (if it is Rose Bay) should not be
within hailing distance of Taronga. AV. M. AA T hitney
has some very nice pictures with “The Avista,
Austinmer,” as one of the best; Dora Wilson includes
a clever picture of “Swanston-street, Melbourne,” in
her little lot, but the face in a portrait study has
a look of waiting resignedly for the painter to finish;
and AATlliam Oates (“A Kurrajong Hillside”), A. .T.
Fischer (.although one of his is a mere mystery),
James Crisp (“Stragglers”), Leslie J. AA’alker
(“Tuggerah Landscape”), John H. Hodgson (a
sympathetically treated “The Old Road,” contrasting
the new houses on the hill with the rustic simplicity
of the old track in the foreground), and Alice Cres-
wick are amongst others who attract attention. There
are travel lectures to the credit of Harry AVeston;
Mick Paul shows that he can use color in “Lagoon
Flats”; AV. P. Holdsworth, like AVeston, uses an
interesting method; Gerald Fitzgerald shows some
neat work but frequently a faulty balance; J. AV.
Tristram gives some poetically expressed coastal
views; P. AV. Marony means well; and A. At. Cusack
is guilty of cruelty to animals in the way she has
drawn the horses in “Toilers by the Sea. Italy.” A
good deal of attention is given to Old Sydney in
pictures that have an interest outside the painting;
there is a small and not particularly striking black-
and-white section; two gesso panels by Lucie Andrews
arrest the eye, and a sculptured head of Henry
Lawson by H. E. Gatliff succeeds only, as far as
likeness is concerned, in the moustache.
The Tivoli is bidding farewell to the
Ivwong Sing Wall combination this week, but
there are whispers of new attractions to
compensate for the passing of so much magic
and mystery. Beryl Walkley has been added
to the fine dancing turn of the Cansinos, to
which she contributes melody, and Moore
and Shy are back to assist Sid Beck in giving
the audience its necessary tonic of laughter.
* * *
Arthur Buckley is not new to Sydney,
but he is new to Fullers’ Theatre. With
the hell) of Mrs. Arthur Buckley he pro-
duces “spirit paintings” and, mysteriously
guessing questions and the names of people
who have written them down, gives advice on
the approximate future. Although this sort
of show takes an inordinate amount of time
in building up the circumstances of the
actual marvels, it is always popular. Besides
Buckley there is a full vaudeville bill, the
Zigzag Revue Co. having vanished. Law-
rence Johnston, a ventriloquist; Alec Kelle-
way, who sings his way into the great heart
of liis public, particularly by warbling that
he is tramp, tramp, tramping home, and once
there will tramp, tramp, tramp no more;
and Moreni and Varni, comedians, are pro-
minent ; and the Mystery Film Girl still does
her share.
“Stepping Along” (Hoyt’s and the Strand,
Sydney) and “Madame, Behave!” (Empress)
are very poor samples of Hollywood pictures.
Plots and casts in both plays are equally
bad. “Exit Smiling” (Hoyt’s and Strand),
with Beatrice Lillie as star, is vastly better.
It is a companionable comedy, with real
people in it; and the last flicker fades out
on a genuine note of pathos. Better still
is “Mademoiselle of Armentibres,” an all-
Britisli picture which has been running at
the Crystal Palace since the middle of
.January. This film reaches almost to per-
fection in cast and interest and artistic truth.
It, is a complete answer to the Hollywood
gibe that the English can’t make pictures.
“Bose Marie” descended from the Canad-
ian Rockies upon His Majesty’s, Melbourne,
on Saturday, like an avalanche of 18-carat
diamonds, if that is the way diamonds are
classified nowadays. It would be a waste of
words to describe the indescribable, especially
as the task has already been performed by
the advance agents, whose adjectives, being
all superlatives, cannot grammatically be im-
proved on. Mention, however, should be made
of some devices new to Melbourne, such
as the setting precedes tins Totem Pole
ballet. This shows elements of thought,
unusual visitors to a musical comedy
ensemble. White mountains descended into
blue and purple haze and a green and yellow
river emerged from the haze to flow across
the violet middle distance, while the vapors
of the valley, in the shape of a cloud of
lovely girls, arranged themselves against their
appropriate backgrounds in such a harmony of
color as almost to divert attention from
Harriet Bennet’s mediocre dancing. ‘“Bose
Marie” was a bath of millinery won-
ders, a long shandy of sensations; and a
melodramatic plot which in any other setting
would be denounced as low and immoral,
wound through the gorgeous mess without
losing itself more than once in 20 minutes,
which is a remarkably high average. Harriet
Bennet’s melody—she was the rebellious
Rosie—was miles better than her enunciation
—she might have been singing in any lan-
guage ; but it was a thrilling thing to listen
to the little lady Climb up the golden scales
while the ear ached in anticipation of a
stumble. And it was refreshing to hear her
scamper down again without a scratch upon
her vocal reputation, while Reginald Dandy,
her almost realistic mounted-policeman lover,
cast upon her a look warm enough to set
fire to a concrete building. Also deserving
ot respect were Stephanie Deste’s uncanny
dancing and Yvonne Banvard’s comic quarrel-
ling with her husband, Hard-boiled Herman.
He was Frederick Bentley, a small, spruce
and ingratiating comedian, who pranced about
the Rockies on brittle-looking ankles. The
music was quiet, satisfying, and eminently
suited to the rural landscape. Everybody,
except the present Showman, knows what
the story is about; he was too busy gazing
on the chorus. That collection was positively
terrifying in its superiority, efficiency and
never-failing good-humor. Sometimes the
sight of all those replendent houris doing
difficult and uncomfortable things with the
same fixed and beaming smiles upon their faces
quite perturbed him. It would have been a
relief if some of them had occasionally blown
their noses.
g: * * *
Melbourne had its first taste of Repertory
under Tait management at the Theatre Royal
on Monday, when “Androcles and the Lion,"
admirably produced by Gregan McMahon, was
acted in sprightly fashion by members of tin
society. Eardley Turner wore the imperial
purple with ease and humor, and Louie Dunn
was a sympathetic and attractive Lavinia.
John Southern made a gigantic and impres-
sive Ferrocius. For a curtain-raiser, “The
Man Who Married a Dumb Wife” was
delightfully portrayed by Robert Guthrie, and
Isabel Handley, as the wife, provided bright
comedy. The house was enthusiastic but
not large.
** * *
The geography of Melbourne Palace will be
altered on Saturday to accommodate “Gum
Tree Gully.” by Kate Howarde. It is stated
to be as full of mirth as the morning kooka-
burra.
There will be no more “Fun on the Bris-j
tol” as far as Melbourne Palace is con-
cerned after to-morrow night, when Frank
Neil, after a long and variegated run,
departs for fresh yields and pastures new.
At the Athenaeum, “The Ghost Train” also
departs nightly, but only to return again.
Mrs. Renee Cheyney-Kelly is still putting
her elegant shoe into the trap devised by
Lord Alexander Onslow at the King’s, but
at the Bijou those seeking the Rev. George
W allace on Saturday night will find him
gone.
(Continued on page 86.)


A clean, cool chin
—every morning
THEY meet every morning, the “Valet ’ and its owner.
Both very keen on each other! And whereas his
close shave used to be in catching his morning train, he
now gets it in the bathroom. For the Valet is the safety
razor that strops its own blade, tunes it up “as new” in
ten seconds every morning without removal from the
frame. There is no secret —a child can do it. Just insert
the end of the strop through the slot provided and move
it to and fro for ten seconds. The result, a keen edge that
will overcome the most obstinate beard. For 40 or 50
mornings you can do this and with exactly the same
result. Ask your dealer to show you the Valet s simple
action.
“VALET”
Safety Razor
Managing Agents for Australia;
PHIPSON & COMPANY, LTD.,
181 Clarence Street, Sydney.
21
\
s?
Of all dealers
it
'V.'v
m
No. 99 SET—Contains the essentials for a
perfect “Valet” shave—the razor, strop .
and blade in leatherette-covered case. . O/O
Ml
1
c
A
m
R
1 1-h.p. Clyno with 56in. Track. The light
car that has proved itself ideal for
Overseas conditions.
Britain’s
Largest
m
i*
>1
Sili^
<9
Car
Distributors.
DEVONSHIRE HOUSE, PICCADILLY, LONDON, W.l
Cables: “Rootesmoti, London.” ENGLAND . Codes: Bentley’s and ABC sth Edition
British cars have more than their origin to
recommend them —it is their sturdy, enduring
quality that has given them supremacy in the
markets of the world.
It pays the motorist to buy a picked British cai,
specially designed for Overseas conditions,
from the fdouses that are associated w r ith
Rootes Ltd.’s export organisation.
Rootes, Ltd., were pioneers of
the group system of distribut-
ing. Their success is an asset
to the car purchaser, for they
handle only the best cars of
their class.
Home-coming motorists can
obtain from any Rootes author-
ised dealer particulars of a
scheme under which they can
avail themselves of a Guaran-
teed Re-purchase principle.
ROLLS-ROYCE
SUNBEAM
HILLMAN
CLYNO
THRUPP & MA REPLY,
Coachwork.
DISTRIBUTORS:
CARS OF ENGLAND, LTD.,
173-175 Elizabeth St., Sydney.
BARLOW MOTORS,
20-28 Latrobe St., Melbourne.
CANADA CYCLE AND MOTOR-
CYCLE AGENCY,
Cr. Creek and Adelaide Sts.,
Brisbane.
ROBERT DICKSON & CO.,
900 Hay St., Perth, W.A.
REO MOTORS, LTD.,
96 Franklin St., Adelaide.


CYMA
KNOWN ALL OVER THE WORLD
AS THE BEST TIME KEEPER
tv) I J
* * §
SOLD BY ALL JEWELLERS
Nation- Wide Popularity through
Fair Dealing.
The phenomenally rapid growth and nation-wide popularity of the
Producers and Citizens’ may be said to rest on the fact that it lives up
to the spirit as well as the letter of the ideal of Co-operation. For
example, its Policy-holders are protected against forfeiture of their
policies during seasonal emergencies; each year definite sums are
earmarked for loan purposes; while the Company’s intimate know-
ledge of the peculiar needs of the men on the land takes form in
sympathetic, understanding treatment.
The PRODUCERS & CITIZENS’
Co-operative Assurance Co. of Australia, Ltd.,
Gov. Dir.:
A. K. Trethowan.
114-120 Castlereagh Street, Sydney.
Gen. U hi.
H. Fell.
THE
PORT OF HULL
for reception of
Frozen Meat exported to
Great Britain.
Cold Storage, 890,000 Cubic Feet.
Prompt Despatch in Refrigerator
Waggons to All Parts of the
Country by Express Trains of the
London and North-Eastern Railway
AUSTRALIAN SHIPPERS are invited to
inquire for further information at the offices
of Messrs. BURNS, PHILP & CO., LTD.,
10 Bridge Street. Sydney, and Branches.
L.N.E.R.
Largest Dock-owning Railway in
the World.
That worse things can happen to a Shaks-
pearean tragedian than a fire is a thought
that may have flickered across the mind of
Allan Wilkie as he bowed to the enthusiasm
of a fully-populated Princess Theatre
on Saturday night. A sport-loving audience
registered its appreciation of Allan; nor
did the applause slacken when the Shaks-
perienced company, mainly composed of tin?
original troupe, turned to the serious, not
to say tearful, business of the evening,
“Henry the Horrible.” There was little in
the play to cavil at except the playwrighting,
and as the Higher Criticism ascribes only
the most Tyrian of the purple patches to
the Bard, and many of those were inex-
plicably excised by Wilkie, the incoherence
of the story unfolded on Saturday was no
reflection on the alleged author. The play
was probably written to provide the fashion-
able tailors of 1613 with the opportunity for
a mannequin parade; as put on by Wilkie,
it revealed remarkable divergency in male
attire that seemed to cover the changes of
at least a hundred years. It contains three
separate and distinct political intrigues, an
action in divorce, a wedding procession and
a christening. It also contains a great part
for a great dramatic actor, and Wilkie
did it well. To see Cardinal Wilkie-Wolsey
stride across the stage enveloped in sufficient
scarlet millinery to clothe a regiment of
British soldiers was almost worth the anguish
of watching Alan Rankin trying to put
humor into the part of Sir Thomas Lovell,
or Minna Suckling (a new acquisition)
endeavoring to excite interest in the
virginal tremors of Anne Bullen. Frank
Clewlow, another importation, was Anne’s
gentleman friend, and if his comedian’s
face and gait completely failed to give
King Hal either bluffness or regal
dignity, it certainly provided a refresh-
ing draught of laughter. Miss Hunter-Watts,
who served as his unhappy Spanish spouse,
still clings to the belief that the best way to
handle Shakspeare’s varied and urgent utter-
ance is to syncopate it, but her charming
grace and sincerity of motion and emotion
were sufficient for .all ordinary and extra-
ordinary occasions. The aristocratic diction
of the Earl of Surrey (Dennis Barry, still
another importation) was a delight to listen
to, and so was the Duke of Buckingham (John
Cairns). The latter’s statement that, his
body being on the way to the block, his soul
was already half in Heaven, was admirably
seconded by his ecstatic air of calm abstrac-
tion. The whole play, for all its undramatic
structure, was furiously absorbing; and the
divorce proceedings against Queen Katherine
were quite as enthralling as any staged in
the local courts, despite the absence of a
co-respondent.
* =:= * *
After being chopped and changed about
owing to the multiplicity of changes in Mel-
bourne theatres, Miss Stewart will be “Sweet
Nell” at the Royal for a fortnight only, com-
mencing on Saturday.
Dixon and O’Brien still persist in sing-
ing and pattering at Melbourne Tivoli, while
Don Alfonso Zelaya converts jazz enthusi-
asts to Bach, though the conversion isn’t
expected in all cases to be permanent.
Johnny Clarke and Co. are in the initial
blush of their first appearance, and provide
amusement to those of iron nerves by climb-
ing to the summit of a pyramid of chairs
and descending abruptly on their heads. Olsen
and Johnson are in the last days of a
genuinely facetious frenzy, and for a few
more nights the notes of Estelle Mark will
continue to fall on the grateful ear like beer
bubbling into a cavernous jug.
Melbourne Majestic’s weekly homily is at
the moment addressed to jazzers. It is the
sad story of the beautiful young wife who
goes to dancing parties while her husband
stays at home thinking of ways and beans
to pay for her frivolities. Then an explosion
blows up a pleasure steamer and the Charles-
top-maddened crowd upon it, and.when the
lady is fished out, a wiser and damper wife
returns to the family fireside to dry herself
and live jazzless ever after. The rubbish is
called “His Jazz Bride.” “Exit Smiling.” a
cneerful film burlesque of the other kind of
theatre, and “Paradise,” a reasonably well-
balanced drama, arc Hoyt’s confections.
’ (i * * * *
“The Alarm Clock” goes off punctually
at 8 p.m. at the Prince of Wales Theatre,
Adelaide, and, judging by the size of the
audiences, has wakened up the entire popu-
lation. Anyway, Yal Atkinson and Bernard
A. Colman have determined to extend the
profitable season. J. C. Williamson, Ltd.,
planted “Abie’s Irish Rose” at the Royal
too soon for even a whiff of it to get into
the present issue of The Bulletin. “Paris”
is being filmed at the Wondergraph. and
“Puppets,” a version of the eternal triangle,
at the York. The Garden still has Billy
Maloney and good support.
Poverty
Point
“Caesar’s Ghost”: Phil Walsh has got a
company going for the making of a film,
“The Birth of White Australia,” of which
Young (N.S.W.) is to be the central feature.
Out of the company’s £5OOO capital, £3OOO
is to be handed over to the producer with the
simple instruction to go right ahead, so
Walsh will be less handicapped financially
than most Australian film-makers have been.
Some producers have been cut down to a
few hundreds, apparently in the hope that
their pictures would be so bad as to foster
the impression that the Australian cannot
compete with the Yank. The title of the
Young picture is derived from the anti-
Cninese riots there when Young was Lamb-
ing Flat.
“Ibsenshaw” ; There seems to be something
wrong with Randolph Bedford’s contention
(B. 17/2/’27) that "in this, as in all ages,
no man trying for success as a maker of
books and plays dare ask the herd to think.”
Bernard Shaw appeals purely to the in-
tellect, yet all over the world his plays are
being presented with increasing success.
Barrie, whose work Bedford dismisses as
“water-gruel,” made the herd not only think
but puzzle over his “Mary Rose”; that play
A FELLOW OF A GOOD HEART.
“ I’m an optimistic hid, you know, laddie.
A couple of beers, a snack of counter-
lunch, and I’d swap my Rolls-Royce for
your Ford, b’gad, I would!”
was the most successful of the recent Aus-
tralian series. Barrie has created his own
audience because he is that rare creature,
the born dramatist. And, by the way. why
su!*'«est that “White Cargo” is all English”?
It was adapted from a novel published in
America, and first saw the footlights there.
“Flaming Youth”: The people responsible
for “Australia. Gem of the Ocean” (B.
17/2/’27). the only song Violet Domino could
find to sing about Australia, are not un-
known. The song was written and composed
by Dolly Stewart and George Walker. As
the “Mystery Girl” sings the thing it goes
well; but possibly the'present fuss about
nrize songs will bring to light a few more for
the lady to warble.
“Angelo”: Worse things than pennies have
been thrown on the Melbourne Tivoli stage.
I remember a soubrette who was struck on
the lavishly-displayed buzzum by a sheep’s
pluck thrown from the gallery. The lady
fainted, and down came the curtain. And
Austin Rudd, a "lion comique,” once stopped
a pie with one of his ears. The pie was
heaved from a stage-box occupied by a few
knuts. Rudd was a good boxer, and the knuts
will remember his dash into the box. Have
never seen an egg thrown—yet.
“Hamfat”: The queer
people who regard Gilbert’s
plays as sacrosanct have
been annoyed by the occa-
sional departures from the
text in the present G. and
S. season. Some of the de-
partures, no doubt, are crude
and deplorable; but, seeing
that Gilbert himself arranged
for variations in his topical
thrusts, and the D’Oyley
Carte performers have gone
on making amendments ever
since, there is no occasion
for an uproar. Actually,
some of Gilbert’s jokes call
loudly for a local and up-to-
date application. The “Cap-
tain Shaw” of the Fairy
Queen’s “On fires that glow
with heat intense” song, in
“lolanthe,” was the London
Fire Chief; obviously the
name should be varied
according to location to
make the point of the song.
“Captain Shaw” means no-
thing to most Australians,
whereas in Melbourne “Mis-
ter Lee” would produce a
howl of mirth. In “The
Mikado” the reference to
Knightsbridge is stupidly
changed to Woolloomooloo.
Gilbert’s shaft was directed
at the Japanese craze that
had swept such places as
Knightsbridge, London ; and
Woolloomooloo doesn’t fit at
all as an alternative —Mos-
man, on the other hand,
would do. It is only when
asses make the alterations
that there should be any objection.
“Caesar’s Ghost” : It is a long time since
the finish of the war gave Pat Ilanna’s Dig-
gers, an aggregation of the best entertainers
from the A.I.F. concert parties, a pusli-off
as a civil show; but the co., after travelling
right throughout Australasia several times,
is still going strong. It boasts of having, at
Earl’s Court, Rockhampton (Q.), established
fin audience record for Australia, by playing
to 3400 people ; the “house” at cheap prices
was worth £3OO. The combination is now at
lie Victoria Gardens, Manly. With it is
iert Gilbert, the old-time comedian of the
Firm, who introduced “Sons of the Sea” to
Australia.
“Dr. Nil”: All circus acrobats do not
die young. The other day at Magill (S.A.)
1 had a chat with Joseph Irons Worley, aged
80. Joe was born "in the sawdust,” or there-
abouts, and was for many years with the
Fitzgerald Bros. His “line,” he said, was
“flying trapeze, ground and lofty, Risley act
and other things.” I whistled an old cir-
cus tune to him, and asked if he remembered
it and the skeleton contortionist for whom
it was played 35 years ago. He did. And
he knew old Jones, who used to throw back-
somersaults in a “drawing-room act” when he
weighed about 17 stone; and the beautiful
Rose of Argentina, who came down a hang-
ing rope like a falling angel: and Peart, the
one-eyed high diver, famous for his 100-foot
jump into a canvas tank, tied up in a sack.
Worley is a pale little chap, with a keen,
good-looking old face; but lie has athlete’s
heart, and does not expect to go much fur-
ther with it.
“Bisley”: There is one place in Australia
where coins thrown on the stage do not
necessarily mean that tin 1 artist is getting
“the bird.” At Maitland (N.S.W.) a vaude-
ville show is presented every Saturday night;
and the audience show its appreciation
of a good turn by throwing the performer
coin l —not only coppers, either. A pro. of
my acquaintance made £3 one night.
“Dan F.”: I know of one man (B.
20/l/’27) who objects to the playing of the
Anthem before the overture, and being a
theatre-usher lie should know. It was the
opening night of the Humphrey Bishop show
at the King’s, Melbourne, with the Governor-
General as guest, and the theatre was packed
from carpet to chandelier. After “Gor Save”
stalls and circle settled into the plush ; but
when the overture started the house-man-
ager noticed a commotion in the gallery.
Dashing up the stairs, he was met by a wild-
eyed usher, who luridly wanted to know if the
company always played “Gor Save” before
the show. “Not usually.” said the manager ;
“but why?” “Why? Blime, I had my gal-
lery nicely packed, and when the band played
they all stood up—and now there’s not room
for them all to sit down !”
“Goldilocks”: The time has arrived wk „
managements find it wise not to hr
of the big salaries they are navimr Red
“draws” are hard to obtain, and' thev
their value, or what they can safely denviml •
and it is always likely that tlie bi°- s-ilirv
paid to one will be quoted by the 'next
a reason for something bigger. So it lm'n-
pens that, although it is known that n sub"
stantial salary had to be paid to Vuilitli
Anderson to bring her to Australia (rcuort
pats it at £2OO per week, which is Dart-
THE PERILS OF THE PLAY.
HAMFAT (bach from bush tour) : “Yes, things were rough
at Brolga Brolga. I dislocated his jaw for one
of o-ur patrons there.”
GREASEPAINT: "My dear boy, I never thought yawning
would be so dangerous.”
payment for lost time in travelling), it is
not used in publicity. Whatever it may be,
Judith was receiving only £8 per week when
she last drew a salary from the Firm as
leading lady with Julius Knight.
“Curtain Raiser”: The charge of cruelty
to a baboon brought against Frank Apdale
of the “Puss in Boots” panto, at Melbourne
Princess was dismissed because of insuffici-
ent evidence. To prove his claim that if he
maltreated his horrid-looking stock-in-trade
it would tear him to pieces, Apdale, whose
real name is Isaac Fosto, staged a little
playlet in the court. Inviting the beast to
embrace him, which it did with every demon
stration of baboon affection, he told Jim
Gerald, the comedian, to smite him with a
stick. The consequent display of imbecile
hatred and ferocity drove Gerald to seek
shelter in the body of the court. Apdale
some time ago invited me to apply the same
test behind the scenes at the theatre. I did
so, and the animal promptly expressed a
desire to tear me limb from limb with its
cargo-liook claws. Later, in the middle of
his act, Apdale let the brute go. Its wander-
ing gaze lit on me, and it ambled over and pro-
ceeded to feel me all over as if in search of
a suitable protrusion to bite off. Then it
changed its mind, or whatever the thing has.
and rambled off. I wiped a damp forehead
and thanked my stars that baboons appa-
rently have short memories.
“Curtain Raiser”: Although the Firm
denies that there has been any amalgamation
with the Fullers, a working arrangement has
been come to. J.C.W. will handle “No, No.
Nanette!” and “Abie’s Irish Rose,” two
Fuller shows, and the profits will be shared.
The Firm has also made two dates with the
St. James, the Fuller house in Sydney, one of
which is being devoted to a revival of “Is Zat
So?” These operations will further exorcise
the nasty spectre of competition raised by
tire ill-starred enterprise of Hugh Ward.
“Blower”: We have had worse outrages
than girl pages for the Lord Chancellor in
“lolanthe.” The first Buttercup in “Pina-
fore' in Australia was a man; and one of
the early Ralph Rackstraws was our own
Nellie Stewart. J. C. Williamson, who
produced nearly all the G. and S. operas,
was no stickler for tradition. He interpolated
“I’m Off to the Rio Grande” in “Pinafore.'
find introduced an entirely new character into
“Pirates.”
“Erna Krust” : Deplorable as it may be
that so many famous vaudevillains arrive
here to find that all their best goods have
been pinched, are we not apt to lay too much
stress on the machinery? It’s personality
that counts. Harry Lauder’s songs and busi-
ness had been done ad nauseam before he
came, to Australia, yet he was a tremendous
success. Personality again. Charlie Chaplin
can never be imitated for the same reason.
Mimicry isn’t art.
THE OTHER WORMS GET READY.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“A German scientist says that earth-worms can
produce musical sounds.”
Oh, I heard the strains of music when the evening
shades were low,
From the earth they seemed to rise around my
feet;
Fairy-like with lilting sweetness, sometimes fast
and sometimes slow,
And the grasses trembled at each rhythmic beat.
Kneeling down, I listened closely, wond’ring whence
the sweet sounds came,
All my senses reeling with a strange delight;
But the melody entrancing, setting fast my soul
aflame,
Kept me guessing in the quickly-falling night.
Then from ’tween the dew-kissed grasses peeped a
pointed little head,
And two wormy eyes looked shyly up at me,
“It was I who made the music”-—and the worm
blushed rosy-red—
“l was practising our Royal Welcome Glee.”
QUEENSLAND.
JIMMY POSSUM.


<M
v «
?s
>&/)
.5
%
a
t,
E=i
%
%
m
/
mwm.
%
i
\
SI
i { m!M!ii,
r r-,7
\W
WOLFES
]IO
PRODUCT OF HOLLAND.:.
=■ = THIS
}TIC ALCOHOLIC BEVERAOi*
jr .— —■:_ jactured exclusively In Holland, anil
~==~ itcd I,ot only P ure * rom « v * r > ’ n,uf l
TS=^- T —j,jrfy and ingredient. but it is alao of
JfwsiMe quality. ~
1,1 , (T .1, E&tention of Agents and Purchaser
«' ! , :U.f >■;. Ho the Signature and add-css o*
\ 1 Mv f \ ■ \V‘ ;.*s£& M to the Title of this Aromatic
/ ' jWL* iV embossed on the sidea 4
,e- N■*T^sG‘P 1 se£"as protection against inferior a»4
I- i ,x '
rsfiiyj
J
1 PINT 6 FI. OZS
At the Hour that
suits you best
“One Wolfe’s Schnapps a day
for your health’s sake.”
/\F the good that comes from the moderate useof Wolfe’s Schnapps
II little need be said. Three generations have learned to appreciate
V-J i ts diuretic properties—have proved it to be the only alcoholic
beverage that produces distinct health benefits through its action on
the kidnevs It remains for the individual to discover at which hou
the dailv modicum of Wolfe’s will be most agreeable to his particular
Some prefer their Wolfe’s before lunch, a dash of bitters
making it a perfect appetiser. Others take their Wolfe’s at the c ose
of a strenuous day when its action as a stimulant is most appreciated.
But the great majority (and they deem themselves
their glass of Wolfe’s for a nightcap, knowing that it will induce sweet
sleep l nd lead to a bright awakening m the morning, its function well
and truly performed. They, of course, always keep a bottle m the house.
Wolfe's is obtainable in quarter,
half, and large sized bottles .
WOLFE'S
AROMATIC SCHIEDAM
SCHNAPPS
“A Blessing to Humanity ”


Some reasons for
B.S.A. reliability
THE consistent reliability of
B.S.A. Motor Bicycles under
the most strenuous conditions
has become a world-recognised fact.
In B.S.A. methods of manufacture
lies the secret of this reliability.
B.S.A. Motor Bicycles are made throughout
in the B.S.A. factories, by the most up-to-date
production methods, from the highest-grade
materials only. All materials used are care-
fully and scientifically tested and analysed in
the thoroughly-equipped B.S.A. Laboratory.
At every stage of manufacture stringent tests
are applied to every component. . The engines
are thoroughly tested in a special plant, and
finally the complete motor bicycle is taken
out and thoroughly tested on the B.S.A.
private testing track.
B.S.A. Reliability is what you want in your
new motor bicycle. Send for the B.S.A.
catalogue and the booklet, “Features of B.S. A.
Motor Bicycles,” which tells how B.S.A.
reliability is obtained.
B.S.A. 4.93-h.p. de luxe Motor Bicycle
Specification includs B.S.A. three-speed gear-box; clutch;
kick-starter; all-chain drive; B.S.A. heavy-type spring
fork, fitted with barrel spring and large shock-absorbers;
B.S.A. steering damper; 7in. diameter front and rear
internal expanding brakes; Terry spring seat or Brooks
supple seat saddle; adjustable handle-bars and foot-rests;
extra wide mudguards, etc. The frame is specially
designed for Australian conditions to give ample ground
clearance, minimum 4fin.
PRICE £77110/-
Lead the way
on a BSA
PRICES FROM £57/101-
Send for Catalogue and particulars of Easy Payment Terms
AUSTRALIAN DISTRIBUTING AGENTS:
N.S.W. & WOOD, LTD.,
Q’LANDJ 284 Pitt Street, Sydney.
VICTORIA- f/wl/i v bros. motor cycles
PTYLTD.,
322 Elizabeth Street, Melbourne .
SOUTH A US.-*/. N. TA YLOR & CO., LTD.
121 Grenfell Street, Adelaide
WEST AUS.- MORTLOCK BROS., LTD.,
890 Hay Street, Perth.
TASMANIA -S//V7 king pty., ltd.,
63 Brisbane Street, Launceston.
B.S.A. Sub-Agents Throughout Australia .
0. Y. RENNIE ( Factory Representative), 49 ELIZABETH STREET, MELBOURNE.


iHastertauch
The Music Roll of Distinction.
Attractive List of February Releases.
Fox Trots.
D.1591-—Sweetie Pie
*D.1594 —33aby Face
D. 1595 —Mary Lou
*D.lf>96 —Beside a Garden Wall
*D.la98 —Just a Bird’s Eye View (of
My Old Kentucky Home)
*D. 1601 —Adorable
D. 1605 —Black Bottom (from George
White’s “Scandals”)
D. 1608 —Oriental Moon
D. 1609 —Any Ice To-day, Lady?
One-Steps.
*D.l6ls—The More We Are Together
Waltzes.
D. 1593 —Parisian Nights
*D.1597 —In a Little Spanish Town
*]).l(ioo—l’ve Lost All My Love for You
D.lOO4 —Lover’s Lane
*D. 1006—The Prisoner’s Sweetheart
Ballads.
D. 1589 —I Love You, Dear
*D.1599 —My Ships. Key of D. Cto F
Sharp
*D.1602 —Chorus Gentlemen, Key of F.
O to C Sharp
*D.1614 —I Want a Pardon for Daddy.
Key-of E Flat. F to E Flat
Operatic (with Words).
*0D1592 —Princess Ida (Selection)
*ODI6O3 —Les Huguenots (Selection)
♦0D.1607 —La Sonnambula (Selection)
*0D.1610 —Semiramide (Selection)
Sacred.
*D.1613 —Hymn Medley
C Series.
* C. 858 —Fantaisie. F Minor. Op. 49
(Chopin)
*XCBS9 —Wedding of the AVinds (Concert
Waltz). (John Hall)
* C. 860 —Prelude in G Minor. Op. 23.
No. 5. (Rachmaninoff)
*XCB6l—Loin Du Bal (Echoes of the
Ball). (Waltz.) (Ernest Gillette)
*XCB62 —Caprice Viennois (Fritz lvreisler)
* C.B63—Last Hope (Gottschalk)
* C. 864 —Whispering Willows (Victor
Herbert)
*XC.B65 —Melodic Valse (Robert Billings)
*X0.866—-Buona Notte (Good-night)—-
A Day in Venice (Nevin)
*X0.867 —Liebesfreud (Fritz Kreisler)
* C. 868 —Pirouette (Pas Seul). (Descrip-
tive.) (Herman Finch)
*XC.B69—Grand March (from “Tann-
hauser”). (Wagner, Liszt)
*XC.B70 —Valse Des Fleurs (Nut Cracker
Suite). (Tschaikowsky)
XC.B71 —Nautilus “Sea Pieces” Op. 55.
No. 7. (Macdowell)
XC.B72 —Song “Sea Pieces” Op. 55. No.
5. (Macdowell)
XC.B73—Lights and Shadows (Novelette)
(Lee S. Roberts)
XC.B74 —Moon Dreams (Novelette) (Lee
S. Roberts)
XC.B75 —Italian Nights (a Story in
Rhyme) (Lee S. Roberts)
* C. 876 —Spring Whispers (Earl Billings)
XC.B77—T’Jours a ’Moi (Always Mine)
(Lee S. Roberts)
OBTAINABLE EVERYWHERE.
The Numbers indicated by a star are procurable in “Expression” Rolls also.
MASTERTOUCH
• • Mand Played
r? A\usic Rolls
are the
LATEST
BEST
AMD
G. H. Horton & Co., Ltd
Wholesale Distributors Onlv. 66 CITY ROAD. SYDNEY,
t*
No. 16 High-power Universal Milling Machine.
MILLING MACHINES
High-powered Horizontal, and Vertical Milling
Machines for rapid production, made by ALFRED
HERBERT, LTD., ENGLAND, who have 150
Milling Machines of various types and sizes in
regular use in their own shops.
This enables them to profit by their performance, on
work ranging from heavy roughing cuts in hard steel
to fine finishing operations, and so lead the way in
Milling-Machine design.
IN STOCK.
Alfred Herbert
(Australasia), Limited,
503-505 Kent Street, Sydney.
City Toft* 10110. Telegrams: LATHE.
Branch Office, Melbourne.
ħ
to
y
to
Jet
m
X
v>\
•at
//
1/
K
Jff
*&
/
'J?
m
't
H
SSL<
V,
Balm and soap
TRIAL- FREE!
If you send your request to C. E. Fulford
(Aus.), Ltd., Sydney, mentioning The Bul-
letin of 27/l/’27, you may have, Absolutely
Free, a sample box of Zam-Buk and a dainty
sample cake of Zam-Buk Medicinal Soap.
Don’t lose this opportunity of a free double
trial!
A Handy Box
Costs Only
1/6
(FAMILY SIZE 316)
ON the road, at home, at work you may have a
sudden mishap. Be prepared with a healing
preparation which, besides taking the sting out of a
wound, will expel any poisonous germs and make new
healthy skin grow quickly over the place.
First-aid for the skin is perfectly performed by
Zam-Buk, which is of pure, herbal origin and really a
concentration of healing energy. The relief is almost
miraculous! If you had the eye of a microscope you could
see Zam-Buk working on a wound, rapidly knitting
the sore edges together by inducing the growth of new
healthy tissue —cell by cell —until no danger or damage
remains.
Zam-Buk is “a surgery in a two-inch box. Unlike
fatty ointments, it “keeps” perfectly, and its soothing,
healing and curative powers never vary. Always keep handy a box of this
splendid antiseptic healer. Whenever you cut, scrape, bruise, burn or sprain
yourself you can soon


FOR
ARCHITECTS, ARTISTS, DESIGNERS,
DRAUGHTSMEN & OFFICE USE.
*;
BRITISH
AD
Perfection
PirSHl RUBBER.
UNIQUE NOVELTY.
PENCIL-PENKNIFE COMBINATION, pro-
pelling and repelling pencil, with concealed
Penknife at rear. Xylonite finished in six colors.
ONLY l/'6 each, or 16/- per dozen.
Will sell at sight at 2/6 each.
AUSTRALASIAN MERCANTILE
COMPANY. LTD.,
•157 CLARENCE STREET, CITY.
“THE WOMAN’S
PRICE . . . .
MIRROR,”
. .. 3d.
Contains everything a ivoman needs to know.
Legal Notice.
HE CHARLES THORNTON DECEASED.
D URSUANT to an Order of the Chancery
* Division of the High Court of Justice
dated the 7th day of December 1926 and
made in an action in the Matter of the Trusts
of the last Will of Charles Thornton deceased
(late of Leeds in the County of York who
died on the 3rd August 1881) Hirst against
Evans (1926.T.800) whereby the following
inquiry was directed viz.:—
“1. An Inquiry whether any and which of
the brothers and sisters of the said Testator
or his said wife were still living at the date
aforesaid (the Ist March 1925) and whether
any and what children of any of the said
brothers and sisters who died before the said
date were still living at such date and as to
each such brother or sister or child living at
the date aforesaid whether he or she is still
living or if dead when he or she died and
who are his or her respective personal repre-
sentatives.”
NOTICE is hereby given that all persons
claiming to be entitled under the said Inquiry
are on or before the 16th day of June 1927
to send by post prepaid to Donald Turnbull
of 98 Albion Street Leeds in the County of
York Solicitor their full Christian and sur-
names addresses and descriptions and full
particulars of their claims or in default
thereof they will be excluded from the benefit
of the said Order unless the Court or Judge
on application otherwise orders.
CLAIMANTS are to attend personally or
by their Solicitor before Master H. W. Jelf
at the Chambers of the Judge Room No. 315
Royal Courts of Justice Strand London on
Thursday the 23rd day of June 1927 at 12
o’clock noon being the time appointed for
adjudicating upon the claims.
A Claimant not residing in England or
Wales must send with particulars of his
claim the name and address of a person in
England or Wales to whom notices to the
claimant can be sent.
Dated the 17th day of January 1927.
HERBERT W. JELF,
Master.
NOTE. —Charles Thornton the Testator
was a son of David Thornton and Mary
Millner. He was married to Hannah Hobson
in 1854 and she died in 1886..
The persons more particularly inquired
after are the following brothers and sisters
of the Testator and their children namely
John Thornton and Samuel Thornton who
are believed to have died without leaving
issue. Thomas Thornton who was married
and had children of whom William Thorn-
ton and Henry Thornton are believed to
be s'till living, James Thornton who was
married and is believed to have emigrated
to Australia in 1854 and who was known
to have been in England in 1897 but to
have then returned to Australia, Abraham
Thornton who is believed to have died in
Leeds and to have had two sons who were
lit one time living in London, Eleanor
Thornton who was twice married first to
James Warner Moxon by whom she is
believed to have had one son and secondly
to John Richardson by whom she had two
children one of whom John Richardson
is believed to have emigrated to Australia
JACQUES AND CO., 8 Ely Place, Lon-
don, E.C.1., England, Agents for Scott and
I urnbull, of Leeds, England, Solicitors for
the Plaintiff.
Business Announcement.
Money in Art!
Theic is heaps of it if you go the right way
about it. '
Many students of merit have their sketches
turned down by papers simply because they
don t know some “tricks of the trade.”
Let the Ray Whiting School of Cartooning
show you how to get your work accepted-
how to go the right way about it—how to
make money and plenty of it with your
sketches. J
Write at once for full particulars of our cor-
respondence course, which is the most simple
yet thorough ever devised.
Send a sketch for free criticism and enclose
2d. in stamps to cover cost of postage, etc.
THE RAY WHITING SCHOOL
OF CARTOONING,
48a Queen Street, Melbourne.
h
Join the Army of Silent Walkers
.And Enjoy the Comfort of
CREPE RUBBER SOLED
BOOTS AND SHOES
Just the Thing for Country Roads.
Great for Tender Feet.
I
E£'S' ill
. :
Bins—Gent’s Fine Quality, Black or Tan Calf
Shoes, Medium Fitting, Crepe Soles.
Walther 8 Stevenson, Ltd.,
395 George Street, Sydney
88118—37/6
Post 1/-
B4B23—rßiding Boot as Above, but
with Ordinary Soles. Tan, 22/0;
Black, 19/6. Post 1/- ’
Write for List of Crepe Boots.
89115 —Crepe-soled
Riding Boot, Black
or Tan, 357-
Post 1/-
RIPOLIN
INT USE
U^%VV(enien
tone, etc
'S> v
m \ A
rH
RIPOLIN
onWood
WHEN BUYING PAINT ORDER THE BEST
RIPOLIN
ENAMEL
is unrivalled for MOTOR-CAR paint-
ing, also HOSPITALS, YACHTS and
all interior and exterior HOME
Decorations.
L. A. CORMACK
(FACTORY REP.),
4 Underwood Street, Sydney.
Telephone 83284.
S. J. SQUIRES & CO., LTD., 171 Elizabeth
Street. BRISBANE.
STANDARD AGENCIES PTY., LTD. 379
Flinders Street, MELBOURNE.
CLARKSON, LTD., 122 Rundle Street,
ADELAIDE.
WYE
IIYERS
/or a name
RESULTS:
From the 6,000 names submitted, a final
selection has been made by Sir Ben-
jamin Fuller, K. 8., and the results
placed as follows:
Ist “GUM-AROMA”
F. J. Hearfieid, 16 Norman Street,
Fivedock, N.S.W.
2nd
“EUCARETTE”
32 Competitors divide
£ 15
3rd
“KOALA”
40 Competitors divide
ilO
Prize-winners will be advised by letter,
and consolation prizes will be despatched
to all Competitors in due course.
Watch for your new cigarette. Supplies
will be on the market shortly.
EUCO EXPEOITATION SYNDICATE,
12 BRIDGE STREET, SYDNEY.
ALL AUSTRALIANS visiting London
n should read the British Australian
and New Zealander, Od. weekly—an illus-
trated paper containing mail and cable news
I'rom Australia and news of Australians in
Europe and at home. Australians are cordi-
ally invited to visit the British Australian
and New Zealander Reading-room at the
Offices, 414-17 Australia House, Strand.
London, WC.2, where they can see the home
papers, meet their friends, use the telephone
and obtain information without charge.
Copies of the paper and general information
can be obtained at the Australian Advertis-
ing Agency, Ltd.. 350 George Street, Sydney;
or 434 Collins Street, Melbourne.
If any illustration in “The Bulletin”
takes your fancy, write to the
Manager, who will quote you price
for the original.
Missing Friends.
\Y/ ILL CHARLES VALE, or any person
vv who knew C. ROBINS, who died in
the Sydney General Hospital on the 17th
December, 1890, communicate with
H. GRIFFITHS,
Albert Avenue,
Springvale, Victoria.
TUNE ALEC HARRIS, nephew of the late
J John Hay, deceased, is requested to com-
municate with the Public Trustee, 67
Castlereagh Street, Sydney.
Amusements.
3YD X E Y’S CHIEF THEATRES.
J. C. WILLIAMSON, LTD., present
HER MAJESTY’S: TELL ME MORE.
CRITERION: TEA FOR THREE.
ROYAL: PRINCESS IDA.
SYDNEY’S BEST SHOWS.
Direction Sir Benjamin Fuller & Mr. John Fuller.
ST. JAMES: IS ZAT SO?
FULLERS’ THEATRE:
FULLERS’ VAUDEVILLE.
RICKARDS’ TIVOLI THEATRES
Lessees: Harry Rickards’ Tivoli Theatres, Ltd
MELBOURNE and SYDNEY.
TWICE EVERY DAY—2.3O and 8.
CELEBRITY VAUDEVILLE.
The World’s Best.
J. W ILLIAMSO N, LTD
MELBOURNE ATTRACTIONS.
HIS MAJESTY’S:
ROSE MARIE.
KING’S THEATRE:
THE LAST OF MRS. CHEYNEY.
THEATRE ROYAL:
NELLIE STEWART in
SWEET NELL OF OLD DRURY,
p RINCESS THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
I roprietors: Sir Benjamin Fuller and John Fuller.
Sole Direction Allan Wilkie.
ALLAN WILKIE and MISS HUNTER-WATTS
IN THE FAMOUS PAGEANT PLAY,
HENRY VIII.
Matinees Thursdays and Saturdays.
A THE Na: u m Thea t r e
MELBOURNE.
Proprietor: Frank Talbot Pty., Ltd.
Lessee : E. J. Carroll.
EVERY EVENING AT 8.15.
E. J. CARROLL presents
the ghost train.
LAUGHABLE COMEDY WITH A THRILL.
Played by E. J. Carroll’s London Comedy Company.
BIJOU THEATRE, MELBOURNE
Twice-Daily, 2.30 and 8.
PHIL SMITH REVUE CO.
Popular Prices. Plan Cen. 3251.
MAJESTIC THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
CLIVE BROOK and CATHERINE CAVERT
OUT TO WIN.
Uox Plan at Allan’s & Theatre. ’Phone 7076 & 7790.
HO Y T’S D E LUXE THEATRE,
MELBOURNE.
MILTON SILLS and BETTY BRONSON in
PARADISE.
EXIT SMILING,
with JACK PICKFORD and BEATRICE LILLIE.
Prices as usual.
Answers to Correspondents.
No notice (except of a hostile character ) will he.
taken of communications insufficiently stamped,.
Name and address must appear on the MS. No
liability is undertaken re contributions volun-
tarily submitted: and no MS. will be returned
unless stamps accompany.
Ken C.: No, it is not “for the back of
The Bulletin. It would be the last straw....
8.F.C.: Dreadful. .. .D.8.G.: It took six beers to
clear away the feeling of dryness left by your story.
. ...Neta B.: If you had given it a local habitation
it might have made a par... . J.R.L.: Can’t even
garner a grain of it for “Answers”.... J.C.M.:
“Reverie-query”— another entry for the Courageous
Rhymes Competition... .H.E.L.: The weary chronicle
doesn’t need a name... .L.L.: We found no joy in
“The Joy of Life”... .H.V.H.: It’s not a story....
J.D.McD.: You lose your bet... .L.C.F.: “Her
Funeral” is yours Cam D.: “Man is born unto
sorrow as the sparks fly upward” dragged out to
124 dismal lines... .M.D. (Greenmount, W.A.) : You
have the atmosphere; use it for a real story....
Lorna O’B.: Terrible, terrible!... .Merriwa (or some-
thing like that) : Don’t print replies to articles in
gutter-rags.... Ripponlea: Your hideous “Revenge’
finds its place:—
“Ah-h-h-h! Merciful Gracious! My Agony!” she
said.
“1 cannot, No, I cannot get it out of my head !
Before we were divorced you were ever so gentle
Hence I’ve come to you for respite—mental and
dental.”
The Dentist since his divorce was a callous bachelor.
His detest for his wife had become intenser, un-
naturaler.
“Ho! you shouldn’t have come to me, you fool!”
He expostulated, plugging her mouth with cotton
wool,
Which savagely around her tongue he forced,
“I had enough of your jaw before we were divorced.
And now will I orate a tirade most violent,
While you—Ha-ha! you’ll have to keep silent!”
He looked with abhorrence at th’ lips he’d once
kissed,
Now petrified i’ a grotesque, gaping twist.
Then his eyes glimmer’d at th’ geranium pink
tongue—
That tongue that so oft had called him a Mung,
And he was by his crescendo anger,
A shocking obsession paralysing him with its
clangour.
“Your nagging,” he vibrated, “I’ve patiently heard.
But, by Heaven, this time I’ll get th’ last word.
I settle your tongue. ’Twas always a curse.
Briny me the caustic-soda, Nurse!”
....Bonnie W.: No dragon was ever as fearsome as
that verse.... Toames: One is merely painfully
correct; 15 “summers” in the other parch it to death.
. ...E.S.P.: Worth a par. perhaps. .. .Jno. S.: The
“hum” is a weary person W.S.M.: Has a good
chance... .W.E.8.: Sickly verse has been put in its
coffin... .H.E.W.: Yarn reaches nowhere... .L.R.8.:
“Smoke-oh” is only vaporing H.8.L.: Has some
good lines; but it’s a vague sort of spasm.... A.S.T.:
Both fail. Pledge story started well but finished
nowhere... .W.E.8.: 'Why didn’t you keep the reve-
lation of facts until after the thrashing?..M.S.
(Goulburn): The verses are commonplace, but try
again... .Jack B.: Very feebly told. .. . Purlisqua:
An anecdote crowded with words D.K.P.: Story
is very weak; and those dots are overdone... .R.G.H.:
Goes rather heavily.... Kongroo: Whatever it all
means it has some terrible rhymes—“intellect-debt,”
for instance. .. .E.L.8.P.: Nothing dazzling about the
lights of Adelaide. .. .N.S.: Formal story tries too
high a jump. May do elsewhere. .. .V.C.W.: Tripped
on the doorstep of acceptance D.8.0.C.: A mere
statement that the past is past... .D. 8.: Too slight.
. ...J.McG.: The first stanza of the “poem” you
couldn’t afford to have set to music for the competi-
tion might give the Lud Mayor a hint:—
Sing a song of Sydney,
In honor of the Duke;
The Lord Mayor should invite him,
Round the harbor for a look.
He should also stroll round our Domain,
And see the men dossing on newspapers;
He could do a much worse turn
Than employ them as his waiters.
. ...G.H.K.: The view of Heaven didn’t impress us.
....Old C.: It also went to “the t00m”.... A.T.P.:
Impossible to notice all MSS. here —or to remember
individual causes of rejection. “Wild Horse” appa-
rently was good enough to pass for final review, but
failed there. .. .M.R.C.: The nude item is also raw.
O.M.N.: No improvement; the winds are crude.
. ...J.8.E.: A perfect Young Ladies’ Jouknal yarn,
right down to the butler. .. .L.McI.: “Memory’s
Soul” can’t linger in our columns. A policeman
called Conunonsense has told it to move 0n....
T.W.8.: Even if you do think verse is made by
slinging in any sort of nonsense to make up a
rhyme, “balls” doesn’t rhyme with “dolls” Isa H.:
Fails E.A.T.: “Lament” is lamentable E.D.:
Weak. .. .P.0.M.: Didn’t catch your moral; any-
way, we prefer interest Ettie M.: It was touch
and go—back to y0u.... Arev: We’ve got to say
“No” to “Denial”.... Dorothy K.: It’s been done
so often.... Glamis: Although father went to bed he
couldn’t have slept if he knew you wrote those
verses Barry S.: What is it all about?
Christobel F.: Confused story.... Edward Es.: Both
have awkwardness; and -we don’t like that “thou”-
ing habit... .R.G.W.: One is a possibility.... Arthur
R,: Too slight. . . .D.S.H.: Shorten it, and it may do.
... .5.0. W.: Inherited your gift of writing from
your father, eh? Why blame the old pot?
P.D. (and others) : We receive too many paragraphs
to answer them in this column F. W. Mole
(Brisbane): Send full postal address to office
The Mussel: “Unappreciative” is the right word.
. ...0.H.: “On the Banks of the Acheron” in
metreless blank verse unsuitable. Try “On the
Banks of the Murrumbidgee” in measured rhyme.
E.M.: Abraham may have spoken Hebrew, but
we are a little sceptical about Noah and Adam.
TO AUTISTIC (AND IN ARTISTIC)
CORRESPONDENTS.
T.W.: Even an artist’s prejudice against debt-
collectors does not justify such an ogre A.M.C.: A
muddle of scratches, erasions and blots. .. .H.E.A.:
Aou may have left out all unnecessary lines, but
the mistakes remain.... J.T.M.: Your flappers seem
to have been cavorting in a swamp. .. .C.P.: Promis-
ing, but we don’t want comic-strip stuff... .T.W.C.:
Is it really a crayfish or a cross between a porcupine
and a cockroach? A.D.R.: Good student work;
attempt something original L.E.G.: A slick pen-
man, but a stale punster. . . .H.P.: Allow 7 yourself
more space W.W.: Drunk who sees double and
mistakes latest arrival for twins is an old friend
8.F.: The amorous postman is a grubby figure....
G.S.T.: Docile little study of two tame spinsters.
D’Arcy Irvine, Bishop Coadjutor of Syd-
ney, who is to take the pulpit of St. Philip’s
Church, left vacant by the death of Canon
Bellingham, relaxes into poetry at times—
a book of his poems was published in 1905
in London. Probably because his odor of
sanctity is unmistakable, he has been con-
stituted a sort of private poet laureate to
the S. M. Herald.


mt
There are thirty-six insulators in a 6-volt,
13-plate battery, and a flaw in any one of
them is an open gate for trouble. That’s
why Willard inspectors are so particular
to accept only flawless insulators to serve
in Willard Batteries. Insulation is inspect-
ed one piece at a time in the Willard fac-
tory —holding each one before a light to
find any imperfections.
that's
Quality
0S
STORAGE
BATTERY


Get the Skins
That is the first necessity. But the last essential is
not least. It is most important with your
RABBIT, FOX, KANGAROO and all other
skins. Get top values for them.
SEND YOUR CONSIGNMENTS TO
WINCHCOMBE, CARSON
LTD,
Salesmen,
SYDNEY OR BRISBANE.
They are live, reliable selling agents, and sell on
commission only. They make it their sole business
to secure top market prices for all clients.
13
BIRKIYRE'S CLOTH
Regd. Trade mark.
The best waterproof for motor-cat
hoods, tarpaulins, horse and cow
rugs, etc. Canvas of all kinds, cot-
ton ducks and hessians, seaming,
bagging and shop twine.
Fishing nets and yarn. Samples
and prices on application.
-MOROCKSSSLID.
379 Kent Street, Sydney.
Charlotte Street, Brisbane, Q.
460 Flinders Street, Melbourne,,Vie.
Monarch
a royal!
smokeH
ĥ
All Good
Hotels and
Tobacconists,
6d
each.
25 Cigars,
12/6
50, 25/9
100, 46/-
Post paid to
any address.
f Sampler Box
containing two
cigars, Is. Post
free.
Craig sAitken
6548 George Street,
Sydney,
Distributors for Club
Reil Cigar Factory.
WANT TO MAKE
MONEY ?
“The ‘Wild Cat’
Monthly,”
published on the first Saturday of
every month, will help you in your
dealings with shares.
Hundreds of thousands of pounds
are lost annually in Wild Cat com-
panies. /‘The . Wild Cat’ Monthly”’
will help you to identify them.
As valuable for the Smallest
Investor as for the Largest. In fact,
the small investor needs it most
Published by “The Bulletin,” 2/-
per single copy; 22/6 per annum.
W&W26.
mm
I/ondon Office:
“Gresham House/’
Old Broad Street, E.C.B.
ELECTROLYTIC ZINC
BRAND BRAND
Containing about 99.95% Metallic Zino
(99.9% guaranteed).
ZINC CONCENTRATES
Various Grades.
Zinc Producers’ Association
Contractors icitli the Board of Trade.
COLLINS HOUSE, 360 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE.
Ericsson Telephone Mfg. Co.
(Formerly James Paton & Co.)
Sole Importers of the Famous Ericsson Telephone and Switchboard
Apparatus, for Magneto, Common Battery and Automatic Working.
WIRELESS APPARATUS,
19 YORK STREET, SYDNEY; 509 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE.
Motherhood
While Students of Lav?,
Medicine, and Science are
spending years in study,
Mothers are learning {heir
business in the grim unsym-
pathetic school of experience.
After all, experience is 4\e
best teacher, and that’s why
thousands of Mothers who
ha'i’e reared large families so
strongly recommend
•*0
KRUSES .
FljadH^csia
OTiis faultless Family Medicine, so safe and simple, is
ideal both for Nursing Mothers and their little ones. It
gives instant relief in severe Indigestion, and is a reliable
remedy for Biliousness, Acidity, Constipation, etc.
Kruse’S Fluid Magnesia is particul arh? valuable
during {he trsi*.g period of pending motherhood. It
presents vomiting and nausea, and keeps the stomach
in a healthy condition.
For Family use the large bottles at 2/9 each are more
economical. KRUSE’S benefits people of all ages .
made by FELTON, GRIMWADE & CO. Pty. Ltd., Melbourne
AURORA” CIGARETTE CASES
Latest from Stewart Dawson’s
llliil*
ill
mil
mm
&S 8
mm
.
flHl
tlllfl
m
m
mmm
m
mmm
m
m
Mmm
m
KKi
mmm
m
mm mill!
*v<
mmm
mmm
iifjaiii
iiin
4%
liliiiiii
«Si
Mill
PRICES OF “AURORA” CIGARETTE
CASES: 37/6, 52/6, 63/-
FUAT MATCHBOXES TO MATCH.
To hold tear-off matches, similar designs
to “Aurora” Cigarette Cases. Price, 16/6
CALL AND INSPECT, OR ORDER
BY MAIL.
Write for New Catalogue.
“Aurora” is a substitute for 18-ct. Gold, to which
it is equal in beauty and finish.
u Aurora” is the same color throughout, and will
retain its finish and lustre with the attention
usually given to Gold.
“Aurora” is a very hard alloy, and will wear even
better than Gold.
No article is genuine unless stamped with the name
“AURORA.”
ħ
h
STEWART DAWSON & CO.
64 YEARS’ WORLD-WIDE REPUTATION. (N S W), LTD.
Two Sydney
Establishments
185-187 Pitt Street, near King Street.
412 George Street Strand Corner.
Business, Robbery, etc.
“Nico”: There is a tobacco known as
“yellow leaf,” greatly prized by cigarette
makers ; it comes from Virginia and North
Carolina. A Westralian named Eimmer, who
has been making tobacco-growing experiments
at Manjimup, has produced specimens that
have realised a good market price. There is a
lot more in cigarette tobacco than cow-fluid,
» if Mitchell’s group settlements can supply
it.
* * * *
“Chloe”: When will some Australian
retailer of fish take a hint from the French
and introduce the tank system? There is
fresh water on the one hand and salt on
the other. The customer walks to the tank,
chooses a fish, points it out, and an expert
dips it out in his basket in the twinkling of
an eye. No waste, nor danger of a stale
mouthful. Anything more distasteful than
the average Australian fish-shop would be
hard to find.
* * * *
“Centurion”: It is a relief for the Aus-
tralian, always finding kind friends to tell
him that he knows nothing and can do less,
to hear that there is someone desirous of
setting him up as a model. This is no less a
personage than Uncle Sam, who is sending an
agricultural research worker named Walker
on a year’s tour of Australia and M.L. to
study wool production. Walker says that
Australian wool is dominating the American
market, while it is better graded and more
suited to mill requirements than the Ameri-
can product. His job is to find out how
Australasia produces such a quality of wool,
how it meets the manufacturer’s require-
ments, and how it’ is merchandised.
* * * *
“Rob P.”: Brisbane detectives have been
worrying the Government for a couple of
cars for C. I. Branch use. At present if they
are called late at night they have to go in
search of a hire car or use a pushbike, and
pray that their quarry will wait for them.
Country policemen must either use police-
horses on patrol work or find themselves in
motor-bikes, for which latter the department
allows them three gallons of petrol per month.
Despite their handicap, the Brisbane sleuths
manage to keep Boggo-road well filled.
Motors should be found, however, even if
the Government has to purchase them on
time-payment.
* * * «
“D.C.T.” : The popular faith in a chemist
is touching. An apprentice, aged 18, tells
me that people—particularly women—come
into the shop and pour out the story of their
ills with a candor which often makes him
blush. If he finds the case too difficult he
hands it over to a senior pharmacist, who
chances a diagnosis and makes up a suitable
mixture. The patient takes away along with
the medicine the gratifying feeling that a
physician’s fee has been saved.
* * * *
“F.S.” : There is a flaw in the Vic. law which
pursues the hog motorist. One who has had
his license cancelled for irresponsible driving
is supposedly out of the massacring business
for the term of his sentence. But another
“Keep your money, Bill. This is on me."
regulation provides that an unlicensed driver
must have a licensed ditto sitting alongside
him. As the delicensed driver is under the
law equivalent to one who has never had a
license, there is nothing to prevent him, with
the assistance of a licensed friend, continuing
his nefarious career.
*.* * *
“Bouragi”: Judge Beeby’s foolish dictum
that woolgrowers were purposely restricting
sheep-breeding to keep up prices continues
to come home to roost. The latest occasion
was the N.S.W. Government Statistician’s
announcement that the number of sheep in
N.S.W. was 54,630,000, as against the
61,831,000 of 1891 which so impressed
Beeby. This season’s increase on last was
seven million sheep, and this year’s average
“cut” was 8.81 b., as against 61b. in 1891.
Only 51,880,000 sheep were shorn this
season, and though there were 10 millions
less than in “Beeby’s Year” the clip was
greater by a third. Even an Arbitration
Judge couldn’t trace deliberate limitation in
those figures.
* * * *
“Billy See”: “Borom” (B. 27/l/’27) has
quaint ideas about the way a banknote is
split. The approved method is to take a new
note and gum it between two sheets of strong
glazed brown paper; gum-arabic should be
used, if obtainable. The sheets are then torn
apart, and as the weakest line is down the
centre of the soft banknote it splits neatly,
leaving half adhering to each sheet of brown
Paper. On wetting, these strip off and are
then ready for reprinting; the missing side
is easily put on again by an expert
engraver. If the split notes were, as
“Borom” suggests, offered with one side
blank, the fraud would be detected instantly
even on a racecourse. Treated as I have
indicated, the notes look genuine, and can
only be detected by an expert. My informa-
tion was mainly derived from an old chap
whose expertness at note-splitting won him
a free passage to West Australia in the
’sixties.


»->5
m#,
m
m
\\
x
't- .
ggj
v-
C#
M
is
i
m
m
One of
Graham Brothers
Great Factories.
Safeguarding Quality
Thousands of trained men in
factories covering many acres
of ground are constantly safe-
guarding, with the pride of
artisans, the high quality of
Graham Brothers Trucks and
Buses and Dodge Brothers
Commercial Cars,
Fine materials, fine precision
standards and skilled workers
make each truck and bus a
sure, dependable hauling unit
—to operate at low cost for
years and years.
Each work day more than 250
trucks, commercial cars and
buses are built by Graham
Brothers. It is this great mass
production that enables Graham
Brothers to build such fast,
powerful, sturdy vehicles at so
low a price.
Qraham Brothers Trucfys and Commercial Cars
meet 91 °/ 0 of all hauling requirements ,
1-Ton Chassis, £325; TJ-Ton Chassis, £445;
2-Ton Chassis, £485.
Waymouth Motor Co., Ltd.,
42-48 Waymouth Street,
Adelaide.
Winterbottom Motor Co., Ltd.,
199 St. George’s Terrace,
Perth.
Austral Motors, Ltd.,
Brisbane and Townsville.
The Standardised Motors, Ltd.,
256 Castlereagh Street,
Sydney.
Canada Cycle & Motor Co. (Victoria) Pty., Ltd.*
352-58 Latrobe Street,
Melbourne.
Graham Brothers
Trucks
BUI IT BY TRUCK DIVISION OF DODGE BROTHERS, INC.
SOLD BY DODGE BROTHERS
DEALERS EVERYWHERE
a/s/’zr.


Disfiguring Pimples
Healed By Cuticura
Daily use of Cuticura Soap, as-
sisted by Cuticura Ointment when
required, not only soothes and
heals unsightly and annoying pim-
ples and irritations on neck and
face, but tends to prevent such con-
ditions. Nothing purer, more eco-
nomical or more satisfactory than
these fragrant emollients.
Soap ls.,Talcum 15. 3 d., Ointment Is. and
2s. For sample Soap and Ointment ad-
dress: “R.Towns& Co.. Sydney, N.S.W.”
pr Cuticura Shaving Stick Is. 6d.
HAVE DRY MATCHED
WET WEATHER
It’s possible if you have
a Marble’s Water-Proof Matchbox.
Holds enough matches for several
days. Thousands used by men
who say “it’s worth its weight in
gold.” Made of seamless brass with
water-tight cover, just the rightsize
for the pocket. Get one today and
have a light when you need it most.
Ask for our complete catalog.
MARBLE ARMS & MFC. CO.
611 Delta Ave. Gladstone, Mich.
David Molden, Box 1349, Sydney, Representative
wiUk BRBWBBMBBBBIBBWBBtaa
SHE
J
Ek«C
fear
From getting "mixed up”
in r.he wash, by having
every article
Marked with
Casig^mm
Any Name woven in Fast Color
“A few stitches and they’re on.'
D S Evans
Actual Size Style No 2
SOLD BY ALL BEST DRAPERS
Prices :
1 2 do". 7/6, 6 doz. 5/-, 3 doz. 3/6
Write for Pattern Sheet to
J. & J. CASH Pty. Ltd.
85 Cubitt Street.
Richmond Melb.
RUPTURE.
A FREE TRIAL.
If you are troubled with the complaint, write us and
we will send you our catalogue, fully describing our
PATENT AIR CUSHION APPLIANCE.
This appliance does away with all cumbersome
springs, giving a feeling of ease and comfort from the
first day s use. It is the most scientific appliance yet
invented for this complaint. It will hold a rupture
firmly and comfortably under all conditions.
To prove what we state
WE OFFER TO SEND IT TO YOU
ON A FREE TRIAL.
jl it is not satisfactory we do not expect you to keep
it, and the trial costs you nothing. It is suitable for
men, women and children, and the price is within
the reach of all.
ILLUSTRATED CATALOGUE
posted free anywhere.
THE WINSLOW CO.
104 Queen Street, Melbourne, Vic.
THE
WOMAN’S MIRROR
Published Every Tuesday
Is the most popular 64-page woman’s
paper published in the Common-
wealth. It features everything a
woman ought to know. Once you
read it you will never be without it.
Its up-to-date weekly pattern is
free for the asking.
Published by
The Bulletin Newspaper Co.,
214 George Street, Sydney.
QN
BANK
THE QUEENSLAND NATIONAL BANK, LIMITED.
Incorporated under the Companies Act 1863. Established 1872.
Directors —A. C. Luya, Esq., Chairman; James Love, Esq.; W. H. Hart, Esa-
M. J. Ryan, Esq. ; D. W. Macdonald, Esq.
General Manager—M. G. HAYMEN.
HEAD OFFICE BRISBANE
With offices at London, Canberra (Federal Territory), Melbourne, Sydney, and
95 branches in Queensland and Northern Rivers, N. S. Wales, also representation
through the leading Banking Institutions covering Australasia and the World, thh
Bank offers the fullest facilities for the transaction of all general banking business.
t
ĥ
'POLISHES—PRESERVES—PREVENTS CRACKS
BOSTOCK’S Shoe Creams are made in all
principal shades, and especially noted for the
New Shade of Bois-de-Rose, Putty. Sunburn
and Oak.
Price 6d. per tube. Obtainable Everywhere*
61 De Reszke
—of course. 9 '
Ivory-Tipped
or Plain
>4
■■
*
f
/ .
r/\
32
i 7
Sand and Brand
“ Isn’t it wonderful how they get the sand
out of the tobacco ? ’*
“What tobacco?’*
“ Oh, any tobacco, I suppose.’*
“My child, they don’t have to get the
sand out of tobacco that never had any
sand —all De Reszke tobacco, for instance.
It’s only the coarse, cheap leaves from the
lower part of the plant that get sand-
blown. But these De Reszke Virginias
you like so much are made from the
choice middle leaves growing near the top
of the plant, which remain free from
sand. And that’s why they’re so kind to
your throat.’*
DE RESZKE
Virginias
THE CHOICE FOR THE VOICE
10 for 9<h
c Also in 20’s, 50’s and 100’s
J. MILLHOFF & CO., LTD.. 80 PICCADILLY, LONDON, W.l.
Agents for N. S. Wales: D ALGETY & COMPANY LTD.
“Lepanto”: There is a quaint instance
of the fatuity of political prophecy in one
of the last speeches of the justly celc rated
John Bright. Only a year before his death,
he declared at Birmingham, during an
address to his constituents, that Imperial
Federation was a mere dream; that the
colonists would not share the cost of Eng-
land’s wars; and that he doubted if New
South Wales and Victoria could ever be
induced to federate. And that was only 38
years ago!
“Squish” : The experience of “Canto” with
the American accent as encountered in a
beloved comic opera (B. 17/2/'27) is paral-
leled by one of my own. In I)e Ivoveil's
opera “Robin Hood,” which Williamson s
once presented to Australia, as I entered the
Melb. theatre the Sheriff of Nottingham was
demanding his name and style from an apo-
plectic individual in green tights. “Me?
said the challenged one; “me? W’y, Am
Ralibin Flood.”
The manufacturing industry of which
Maoriland is proudest, the woollen trade,
is going backwards. In three years the
number of workers employed decreased by
55, the wages-bill showed a drop of £56,885,
and the value of products went down by
£261,082; on the other hand, importations
substantially increased. There’s no doubt
about the high quality and good value of
the local stuff —even the importers admit
that—but it can’t compete with shoddy. It
is a clear case for more Protection.
Wilbur Ilam, who was in the running for
the A’ic. Supreme Court judgeship that went
to Lowe, has been made a Iv.C., and will have
precedence after Maxwell, M.FI.R. A native
of Melbourne and a graduate of Melbourne
TTni., Ham was admitted to the Bar 20 years
ago. After four years in the Big Scrap, he
found himself a major in the 13tli Light
Horse.
One of the oldest shearers in the Ma State
is George I-lundy, of Mudgee (N.S.W.).
George started at the age of 13, when the
blades were in vogue, and for 54 years has
not missed a season. Last year he shore
5400 sheep. He has slowed down a bit with
advancing years, but time was when he
accounted for 166 jumbucks between 6 a.m.
and 2 p.m.
An estate in Lancashire granted by
Edward 111. to one Gilbert Ford, and alleged
to-day to be worth “at least £20,000,000.”
is the subject of a claim at law set up by
four residents of Christchurch, M.L. —three
brothers named Tabley (two are civil ser-
vants and the other is a tanner) and a
sister, Mrs. M. Shaw. They got on to the
trail through the enterprise of an Austra-
lian, Ilorrocks, who has been in England
two years investigating family-trees. Ilor-
rocks’s solicitors, it is said, advised him to
drop his own claim and help the Tableys
to establish theirs, which seems sounder.
The claim has not been contested for a cen-
tury, but the fact that the land is held under
very long leases takes it from under the
Statute of Limitations.
“Oxmead” : Theodore has been a miner in
his time, like Andy Fisher and Charlton.
His underground activities appear to have
been more widely distributed than those of
the other two ; according to John’s “Notable
Australians,” before taking to politics he
swung a pick in S.A., W.A., Broken Hill and
Queensland. In which case he must have
started very young. The late Jack Holman,
Westralian M.L.A., used to claim that he
was the first to impress Theodore with the
blessings and potentialities of unionism
when the future Premier was working on
the Cue Victory and Holman himself was
running a barber’s shop in the main street
of Cue. But that can hardly have been
later than 1902, when Theodore was no more
than 18, for Holman abandoned the scissors
when he won a seat in the W.A. Assembly,
and I doubt if the Cue Victory wasn’t shut
down before that.
“X.N.0.”: “Recurrent Factor” has some-
thing to learn (B. 17/2/’27) about naval
codes, at any rate. I was on this work —
not at the manufacturing but at the coding
and decoding end —for practically the whole
of the war. The most common code-
book used in the R.N. consisted of three
letter groups, of which I think our 26-
letter alphabet can provide 17,576. The
code was formed by putting all the required
words in one hat and the groups in another
and drawing from each at random. The
result was a code volume and a decode
volume without any “recurrent factor” what-
ever, and the book consisted not only of
words but phrases. Elucidation would have
been out of the question without the key
volume, but even so we changed it about
once a month and adopted other measures
to make the impossible harder still. Not
by any means did all war codes have “index
numbers” or “group letters,” as “Recurrent
Factor” states.
The first white-anter known by Labor in
Sydney was a brother of Tom Keegan,
M.L.A. As a representative of the United
Laborers’ Union on the Labor Council he
introduced what he called the “I double-yer
double-yer” to the council’s notice. It was
a new organisation then, and unknown in
Australia; but Keegan, a voluble enthusiast
who spoke upon every subject that came up,
always managed to bring his discourse round
to “the principles of the I double-yer double-
yer.” He faded out almost as soon as the
I.WAV. became well known in Australia. The
honest fellow had not realised the nature of
the animal he shepherded only too well.
“Caul Boy” : A Melbourne barrister, R. G.
Menzies, has pricked the bubble of Sliak-
speare’s omniscience in all departments,
blown for him by the industrious scribes
who, unable to appreciate his merits as a
poet, try to prove that he was a master
of all the sciences and professions as well.
Menzies asserts that the legal lore of Portia
is an outrageous pleasantry, and that she
never failed to be wrong in anything she
said at the famous trial except in the speech
about mercy. As one with some slight
acquaintance with seamanship, I should like
to add that the amount of that quality dis-
played in the opening scene of “The Tem-
pest,” constantly cited as a wonderful
example of the Bard’s uncanny knowledge
of navigation, might easily have been gleaned
in five minutes’ conversation with one of
Drake’s men.


Shipping.
BRISBANE, via BYRON BAY
Through Tickets to Brisbane issued.
S.S. ORARA —Every Saturday evening; passengers
due Brisbane Monday afternoon.
S.S. WOLI.ONG BAR—Every Tuesday evening;
passengers due Brisbane Thursday afternoon.
Both vessels fitted with Wireless Receiving Sets.
BRISBANE:
FARES.—
Steamer and Motor throughout, Single, £4
Steamer and Motor throughout, Return, £7/5/-
.Steamer and First-class Rail, Single, £3/15/-
Steamer and Second-class Rail, Single, £3/8/-
XORTH COAST S. N. CO., LTD.,
Passengers’ Booking Office:
TOURIST BUREAU. Oil ALLIS HOUSE,
MARTIN PLACE, SYDNEY.
Brisbane Booking Agents: Burns, Philp and Co., Rtd.
Have a New Holiday in
n A WAI I
Break your next trip to Europe or America
without extra cost in the isles of eternal
springtime. Tropical scenery, fragrant flowers,
luscious fruits. Haunting melody ’neath moon-
lit palms. Outrigger canoeing, surfboard
riding, golfing, motoring and outdoor sports
the year round. Inter-island cruises, volcanic
spectacles.
Or take a round-trip from Sydney, 8 weeks or
less, for about £lOO to £l5O all expenses,
allowing 3 to 4 weeks in Hawaii and a day
at Suva or Pago Pago. Good hotels with meals,
12/- to £3 per day. Ask steamship or travel
agency or write Hawaii Tourist Bureaus, Dept.
26, Box 241 D, G.P.0., Sydney, N.S.W., for
beautifullj'-colored booklet, enclosing this adver-
tisement.
On Your Next Trip Include Hawaii
Banking, Public Companies, etc.
The Australian Bank ol Commerce Limited
Authorised Capital .. .. .. £5,000,000
Capital Paid Up and Reserves .. .. £2,655,303
Aggregate Assets at 30th June, 1926 ..£16,789,590
Directors: Sir Mark Sheldon, K.8.E., Chairman;
Frank N. Yauwood ; Duncan Carson; H. R.
Lvsaght, 0.8.12.; George J. Sly, LL.D.; Lieut.-
Col. T. L. F. Rutledge.
General Manager: C. M. C. Shannon.
Chief Inspector for N.S.W.: \V. G. Hull.
HEAD OFFICE, SYDNEY (Corner George and King
Streets).
Branches and Receiving Offices at 151 places in
New South Wales.
BRISBANE (264 Queen Street).
Chief Inspector for Queensland: L. Aveyard.
Manager: G. H. Howell.
Branches and Receiving Offices at 27 places in
Queensland.
MELBOURNE (325 Collins Street).
Manager: M. B. Finney.
ADELAIDE (35 Bundle Street).
Manager: R. T. Hoodie.
PERTH, W.A. (73 St. George’s Terrace).
Manager: A. C. Dirdin.
LONDON (37 Threadneedle Street, E.C.2).
Manager: A. F. Jenkins.
London Directors;
A. Dodds Fairuatrn', Alfred Shepherd.
Agents throughout Australia. Tasmania and New
Zealand, and at all the Chief Cities of the World,
Every description of Banking Business Transacted.
Bank of New Zealand.
SYDNEY BRANCH:
Corner GEORGE and WYNYABD
STliltlETS.
Guaranteed Stock.. .. .. £529,988
Preference Shares .. .. .. 1,875,000
Ordinary Shares .. .. .. 3,760,000
Reserve Fund and Undivided Profits 3,390,378
GRANTS
DRAFTS
on Australia,
land, Fiji,
New Zea-
Samoa,
Great Britain and Ireland, and other places.
RECEIVES DEPOSITS
at interest for
fixed periods, and
transacts all other usual Banking business.
The Bank of Adelaide
(Incorporated 1865.)
Perth Office: St. George's Terrace.
Also, Fremantle, W.A.
Melbourne Office: 267 Collins Street.
Sydney Office: 279 George Street.
Authorised Capital .. £2,000,000
Subscribed Capital 876,000
Paid Up Capital £875,000
Reserve Fund .. .. .. .. 800,000
£1,675,000
Reserve liability of shareholders .. 875,000
£2^,550,000
Head Office: ADELAIDE, SOUTH AUSTRALIA.
Also 111 Branches and Agencies in Sputh Australia.
London Office: 11 LEADI7NHALL STREET, E.C.
Agencies in all Australian States and throughout
the world.
Drafts and Letters of Credit issued on London,
America and elsewhere. Bills from abroad collected
and proceeds remitted, All usual banking business
transacted.
Australian Mutual
Established
1849.
Head Office:
87 Pitt St., Sydney
Provident Society
The Largest and Most Successful
Mutual Life Office in the British Empire,
Distributes a Cash Bonus Every Year.
Amount Distributed for single year 1925 £2,428,000
Yielding Reversionary Additions to
Policies of over .. .. .. £4,150,000
Accumulated Funds .. .. .. £60,000,000
Annual Income nearly .. .. .. £9,000,000
The Society transacts Every Class of Ordinary
and Industrial Assurance Business.
H. W. APPERLY, F.S.S., General Manager.
Keep hopping and hoping if you wish
to succeed
y/ '
THINK OF
SCHUTE,
BELL&Cuo.
If you have
Wool & Skins
to Sell.
Personal Attention.
Officer: 44 Bridge Street, Sydney.
Shipping, etc.
CANADA, UNITED STATES,
UNITED KINGDOM
FORTNIGHTLY SAILINGS FROM SYDNEY.
CANADIAN-AUSTRALASIAN ROYAL MAIL LINE
via Auckland, Suva (Fiji), Honolulu, Victoria and Vancouver.
UNION ROYAL MAIL LINE
via Wellington, Rarotonga, Tahiti and San Francisco.
AORANGI .... 17,490 tons disp. MARCH 10, for Vancouver.
TAHITI 7,900 „ „ MARCH 24, for San Francisco
NIAGARA .... 13,415 „ ~ APRIL 7, for Vancouver.
MAKURA 8,075 ~ ~ APRIL 21, for San Francisco.
Fast and splen-
didly equipped
steamers usiny
oil fuel.
Spacious Decks,
Unrivalled
Cuisine.
~ ; :< v:
m
mm
The Scenic
Routes to the
United King-
dom, via South
Sea Islands,
Canada, United
States.
TICKETS TO THE UNITED KINGDOM INTERCHANGEABLE FOB RETURN
BY OTHER EINES.
HONOLULU EXCURSIONS COMMENCE JUNE 2.
UNION STEAM SHIP CO.
(Union House, 247 George Street, Sydney.
\William Street, Melbourne.
MACDONALD, HAMILTON & CO„ Brisbane, Adelaide and Perth.
SOUTH SEA TOURS
Attractive Island Trips, occupying about J/$ WeeJcs.
SIX-WEEKLY SAILINGS FROM SYDNEY TO
Mo «v Rritain' S.S. “MONTORO” (5000 tons).
•L W Dliltllll. Sails March 29 and May 10.
Idan/k- ss “MATARAM” (3500 tons),
NJUlvmvm laiailUo. Sails March 16 and April 27.
A Delightful Holiday in Island Wonderlands. '
For Particulars apply—
BURNS, PHILP & CO., LTD.,
Sydney, Melbourne, Adelaide and Brisbane.
'
Hik
Kit
mm
BURNS, PHILP & CO., LTD.,
Passenger Booking Agents for All Steamship Lines
To
ENGLAND CANADA JAPAN
EUROPE AFRICA CHINA
AMERICA INDIA JAVA, etc.
At regular passage rates. No extra charge.
Attractive tour to
NOUMEA, JAVA, HONOLULU, COLOMBO, etc.
VISIT JAVA (The wonderland of the East).
Regular monthly sailings of the s.s. “Marella” and
iu.s. “Malabar” to Java and Singapore via Queensland
ports, Thursday Island, Darwin, etc. Smooth water trip,
Deck Cabins, interesting ports of call.
APPLY
BURNS, PHILP & COMPANY, LIMITED,
WORLD TOUR and TRAVEL DEPARTMENT,
7 BRIDGE STREET, SYDNEY.
BANK OF NEW SOUTH WALES.
Established 1817.
Paid-up Capital
Reserve Fund
Reserve Liability -
ħ
h
ĥ
£6,000,000
4,750,000
6,000,000
£16,750,000
Directors:
Thomas Buekland, Esq., President.
The Hon Reginald J. Black, M.L.C.
Charles Binnie, Esq.
James Burns, Esq.
Robert L. Faithfull, Esq., M.D.
Robert W. Gillespie, Esq.
Franc B. S. Falkiner, Esq.
Auditors: W. H. Palmer, Esq.; S. E. Laidley, Esq. General Manager: OSCAR LINES.
Head Office— George Street, Sydney. London Office — 29 Threadneedle Street, E.C. 2.
431 Branches and Agencies in the Australian States, New Zealand, Fiji, Papua, Mandated
Territory of New Guinea and London. Agents and Correspondents throughout the world.
Cable remittances made to, and drafts drawn on Foreign places DIRECT. Foreign Bills
negotiated and collected, Letters of Credit Issued, negotiable throughout the world.
The Commercial Banking Company
of Sydney Limited
ESTABLISHED 1834.
CAPITAL PAID UP £3,500,000 0 0
RESERVE FUND ------- 3,000,000 0 0
RESERVE CAPITAL ------ 3,500,000 0 0
£10,000,000 0 0
Directors:
GEORGE J. COHEN, Chairman ; Hon. SIR THOMAS HUGHES, M.L.C., Deputy
Chairman: Hon. JAMES ASHTON, M.L.C.; Major-General the Hon. J. W.
MACARTHUR ONSLOW, V.D., M.L.C.; Sir WILLIAM VICARS, K.B, C.B.E.
General Manager: J. R. DRYHTJRST.
HEAD OFFICE: Sydney, 343 George Street.
London Office.—lB Birchin Lane, Lombard Street, E.C.3.
Branches throughout New South Wales and Queensland. Agencies
throughout Australia and New Zealand, and all other parts of the World.
All Classes of General Banking and Exchange Business Transacted.
SAFE DEPOSIT VAULTS. —Inspection invited. Particulars of
Safe Rentals on application.
Shipping, etc,
Inter-State Steamship
Sailings.
(Passenger Sailings—Circumstances permitting.)
FOR MELBOURNE, ADELAIDE and FREMANTLE
(Transhipping at Melbourne for Geelong and other
Victorian ports; at Adelaide for S.A. Gulf ports;
and at Fremantle for Perth, Bunbury, Geraldton
and North-West Ports).
FOR QUEENSLAND PORTS
(Transhipping at Brisbane for Maryborough, Bunda-
berg and Gladstone, and at Townsville for outports).
♦Brisbane, Mackay (no cargo for Maclcay), Townsville
and Cairns.
Huddart ParlierLisiHEH'
STEAMERS TO NEW ZEALAND —Regular sailings
from Sydney to New Zealand ports and vice versa.
Particulars to be obtained on application.
STEAMERS TO TASMANIA —From Sydney to Hobart
and vice versa as per daily papers. Between Mel-
bourne and Launceston as per daily papers.
For full particulars apply HUDDART PARKER LIMITED,
Collins Street, Melbourne; Bridge Street, Sydney.
Interstate Telegraphic address;
“NALDHAM.”
Cable address
“NALDHAM.’
Macdonald, Hamilton 8 Co.
247 George Street, Sydney.
Shipping Agents, Merchants, Colliery
Proprietors, Tug and Lighter Owners.
MANAGING AGENTS FOR
Australasian United Steam Navigation Co., Etd.
Fitzroy Estates, Etd.
Blacklieath Collieries, Etd., and Caledonian
Collieries, Etd.
Eastern & Australian Steamship Co., Etd.
AGENTS FOR
British-India S. N. Co., Ltd. P, & 0. S. N. Co.
Queensland line of Steamers. Scottish Shire Line
(Turnbull, Martin & Co.). New Zealand Shipping Co.,
Ltd. Canadian-Australasian Royal Mail Line, San
Francisco Service (Union S.S. Co.), Union S.S. Co.
of New Zealand, Ltd. Hain Line. Huddart Parker,
Ltd. London Assurance Corporation (Marine). Mel-
bourne Agents for Messageries Maritimes Co. Queens-
land Agents for Sea Insurance Co., Ltd.
BRANCHES at Perth, Fremantle, Adelaide, Port
Adelaide, Melbourne, Suva (Fiji), Brisbane, Mary-
borough, Bundaberg and Bowen.
“The Woman’s Mirror”
Published every Tuesday
PRICE 3d.
It deals with every subject of
interest to women.
For your
Summer Vacation
HOTEL
KOSCIUSKO
(Altitude 5000 ft.)
Trout Fishing - - Golf,
Tennis and Croquet.
Motoring on excellent roads.
Petrol for sale and garage
accommodation available.
Summer Tariff:
From £5/5/- per week.
£1 per day.
Bookings and Further Particulars at —
N.S.W. Government
TOURIST BUREAU
Challis House, 8 Martin Place,
Sidney.


TRADE MARK
\AS FINE AS FINE CHINA CAN BE
m
TO® lyssoi, /aswEt*
The Kiddies have their own nursery, their own books and their own special
chairs. Let them have their own china, too —Shelley Nursery China. It
is strong enough to withstand the hard wear which it is bound to receive,
and will give far better service than second-rate Continental ware.
Every piece bears a gaily colored design by that famous artist Mabel Lucie
Attwell —and every piece, too, is British made throughout.
You will find the prices are as attractive as the china itself.
Obtainable from all high-class Stores and Pottery Dealers; if any difficulty,
write for name of nearest stockist to our Wholesale Representatives,
TW HEATH & CO.
/limited
232, Qlarenee St., Sydney & Commerce diouse, (Melbourne*
CHINA
Rttdge-Whitworth
Motorcycle
WHERE THE RUDCE-SPORT!
GETS ITS SUPREMACY
FOUR OVERHEAD
VALVES
give amazing power and vaive
reliability.
FOUR SPEEDS
Give you the exact gear for every
variation of road., load and speed.
Rudge-Whitworth Patent Proportional
COUPLED BRAKES
Reduce the bogey of skidding to
a minimum.
INTERCHANGEABLE
WHEELS
Save roadside troubles—you have
the advantage of a spare wheel
like a car.
MECHANICAL LUBRICATION
Ensures the engine being always
properly “fed”
80 MILES AN HOUR!
■
w
“RUDGB MOTOR CYCLES are quite
superior and will reflect your pride
of ownership.”
For full particulars write to the Agent in your territory:
Flower, Davies and Johnson, 401 Murray-street, Perth, West Australia,
Behrens Thiem Co., 3 Devon House, Chesser-street, Adelaide, South
Australia.
Rogers Bros. Pty. Ltd., 305 Swauston-street, Melbourne, Victoria.
Biden and Roberts, 150 Hay-street, Sydney, New South Wales.
Canada Cycle and Motor Agency (Q’land) Ltd., Creek-street Brisbane,
Queensland.
J. Bilyard, 110 Elizabeth-street, Hobart, Tasmania.
Carl Mantach, 110 Charles-street Launceston, Tasmania.
Factory Representative: James Thomell, Sheffield House, Pitt-street, Sydney,
New South Wales.
Rudge-Whitworth Ltd., Rudge Works, Coventry, England.
“Buy ‘BRITISH’ and be proud of it.”
Registered Trade-mark.
BRITISH
SCISSORS of
HIGH QUALITY.
SOLID STEEL. A LIFETIME’S WEAR.
Representatives :
NORMAN BAKER & LONGHURST, LTD.,
Sydney, Melbourne, and Wellington, N.Z.
CHRISTOPHER JOHNSON & CO.,
FLAG BRAND CUTLERY.
Sheffield,
England.
ħ
/?
w
BEHNING
Player Pianos
Sole Ag'ents:
PALINGS
Possibly you have heard this Famous Playet
Piano broadcasted by 2FC. If so, you
cannot have failed to notice the clarity and
fulness of tone of this wonderful instrument.
The Behning Factories were established in America in 1861. Their high-grade Pianos are much sought after by musicians, who require
the Best in Tone and Touch.
Behning Instruments are fitted with the latest player mechanism. They will transpose any roll in seven different keys, which is a
great boon to singers.
The Behning combines a Perfect Piano with a Player action of marvellous sensitiveness, capable of producing every degree of musical
expression and tone. They are artistic in case design.
A BEHNING WILL ENABLE YOU TO PLAY LIKE AN ARTIST.
Send for Illustrated Catalogue, giving you full particulars of the Player.
338 George Street,
Sydney.
h
206-210 Pitt Street
(next Lyceum Theatre).


Coogee’s Surf Queen
(Miss Mel Greenlees)
Si
m
m
m
m
m
;
WS
vb
i
is a Rexona Girl!
MISS MEL GREENLEES, Coogee’s Beautiful
Surf Queen, is a true Rexona Girl, and uses
only Rexona Soap for her skin and hair. She
writes us as follows: —“I find Rexona is the
most beneficial soap for use after swimming or
surfing. It refreshes the skin and has a cool,
soothing effect after sunbaking. It also removes
the salty feeling from the hair. I recommend it
to my friends.”
Be a Rexona Girl,
too, and Enjoy
Health and Beauty
Rexona and Rexona Soap are the Rexona Girl’s aids to
beauty. With their assistance she rids her skin of
bit mi lies and pimples, keeps her hair and .scalp in such
perfect condition that she is the envy of all her friends.
But the Rexona Girl is not selfish —she does not keep tile
secret to herself, but wishes all the world to rejoice with
her. Over 5000 girls have written to the company the
glad news that they are Rexona Girls and find the
Rexona Products the most wonderful aids to health and
beauty.
They say that Rexona Soap keeps their skin and hair
healthy and beautiful and should be used by every girl
who values her good looks. They say they are always
finding new uses for Rexona the Rapid Healer, and
many of their letters contain a photograph which shows
by its beauty that these users are getting the best
results in health and happiness. Are you satisfied with
your looks ? Why not become a Rexona Girl and use
only Rexona and Rexona Soap, too ?
Miss
Mel
Greenlees,
a
beautiful
Rexona
Girl.
REXONA
SOAP
m
il PI H
Chocolates
l 'l do like my Daddy—see
what he's brought me home!"
The Famous Red Box of Chocolates.
Mailed to you the day they are made.
Prices:
3/-, 5/6, 6/-, 10/-, 12/6,
20/- and 30/-
Post free to any address in Australia.
162-66 PITT STREET.
BRANCHES:
CR. GEORGE AND KING
STREETS;
CASTLEREAGH STREET
(Next Theatre Royal),
SYDNEY.
Sent/ for Catalogue illustrates
with reproductions of our con-
fect forte -y in colors.
•T ■'
m
:':X. .
WSk
d^SP^nSliiSil
fSml
» ■
iTzSill*
-, i -i
'■SB ,1:1
U.
Jl?'
i /
•v
f '-' .*• ;
<ai
Jfeaf .
.
I SfiGaiS
lig&jßaSSraSral >H ;■
5 m
mmm
rnmm
ill'
:i
The Bush Schoolboy.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
HIS bag upon his sturdy back, he goes,
Bare-footed, down the longest track
he knows,
Taking reluctantly his way to school;
And, loitering there, he laughs to feel the
cool,
Crisp grasses crunch beneath his careless
feet;
Sees bloom on twig and branch hang honey-
sweet,
And down in every damp, dim-shadowed
place,
The fronded fern lean up like stiffened lace.
And, gaining now the first, warm, sunlit rise,
He looks far back, and sees with fresh sur-
prise
The sea lie out all azure-pale and still,
Looping the edges of each wooded hill;
And wonders, eagerness within his look,
Of Hartog, and of Tasman, and of Cook.
Wonders if Cook, on some still morn like this,
Pulled in ashore, shouting above the hiss
Of spreading surge ; but past the next lagoon,
Forgets his dreaming wonder very soon,
And, trudging on, pokes little sunburnt toes
Among the grass, where thick and spiked
heath grows
In red and white; and scarlet-runner drips
Olobules of blood among the grasses’ tips;
And halts awhile beneath a silk-smootli gum,
Hearing above his head the wild bees’ hum ;
And peels a fresh-torn stick, and, whistling,
sits
Watching the finches and the tiny tits.
A round-eyed rabbit stares, then runs, white-
tailed.
A lizard in a shining armor mailed
Flicks out its pointed tongue; and, winging
by,
The wild duck make a wedge against the sky;
And the black swans, a-crying as they go,
Sail out to some far haunt no feet may know.
Among the sheeny lilli-pilli leaves
A bronze-winged pigeon in the glooming
grieves.
Down in the hollow where the dark pools lie,
Hidden in tangled scrub from sun and sky,
The lazy cows among the bracken beds
Feed on, with ringing bells, and raise their
heads
To see the loitering bare-legged urchin pass,
Swishing his white-peeled stick along the
grass.
I p the last slope he climbs and, peeping, sees
Beneath the branches of the slim-trunked trees
The school-house roof with chimney all awry,
Patching its red against the morning sky,
And tiptoes up, and swings the little gate,
• lose-latched against the scholar who is late.
* * * *
And sitting in his place, held fast inside,
He leans upon the desk, his boy’s eyes wide,
uondering if Tasman bold and gallant
Cook
S;tt huddled o’er a thumbed old lesson-book.
Victoria.
MYRA MORRIS.
The Stump.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“Cl EE that stump!” old Svenson used to
say to any stranger he could get
hold of. “It belongs to the biggest
tallow-wood you ever set eyes on, and I
lopped it off w r hen I first come here. T’irty
feet from the ground.”
And little Oscar, hanging on to his grand-
father’s hand, would repeat with the same
perky tilt of the chin:
"T’irty feet from the gwound.”
He did not know what the height meant,
but he was sure it reflected some vague glory
on them both. Besides, he had become so
used to echoing his grandfather that he did
it even when he was half-asleep or thinking
about something else.
It was, indeed, a mammoth stump. It
caught the eye of everyone who came up the
steep slope to the little cleared tableland,
for it was about the only relic of the tall
timber left. There were orange-trees, of
course, arranged as neatly in their ordered
rows as soldiers on a parade-ground, with
the earth showing red and bare between.
They provided a miracle of blossom that
made the very bees drunk in the early
months of the year, but usually their atmo-
sphere was merely that of a tame prosperity.
The forest and the scrub had gone, picked
over first by the timber-getters and then
backed down wholesale by settlers hungry
to make use of every inch of the rich, vol-
canic soil, so that now there was no evidence
that a native tree had ever grown there.
Except Svenson’s stump. It stood on a
grassy space between the church and the
school, and could be seen from the flat coun-
try below, raising itself up like some white
pillar of stone.
"T’irty feet from the ground,” old Svenson
said, as though he had taken the measure-
ments to an inch.
There had been no point in cutting it off
so high up. None at all; for the stump was
pearly as thick at the top as at the butt.
In those days, though, old Svenson had taken
a pride in going one better than the other
man. He had been a sailor, and was not so
expert as some of them with the axe, so he
evened matters up by putting his footboards
m higher than the most foolhardy would have
cared, to venture. There was a triumph in
stepping from his precarious perch on to
the bare stump as the tree heeled over and
crashed, risking annihilation if it caught in
another tree or kicked. It gave a fillip of
excitement and adventure to the day’s work.
Besides, it provided something to boast
about, and that had always been a necessity
to the little man. For forty years he had
been boasting of one quality or possession
a±ter another, and his flickering eyes that
peered out from behind their glasses still had
a challenge in them. Didn’t his small hold-
ing of seven acres produce better oranges
than any other on the range? Hadn’t his
white Leghorns a record for laying’ His
trim upright figure, with its stiff back and
pointed, grey moustaches, was in itself an
aggressive note of interrogation as he moved
about the front by the store, holding little
Oscar by the hand.
But he had been forced to give up one
source of pride after another, conducting a
strategic retreat down the years. His first-
born, Emil, who had promised to be such a
brilliant youngster, had contracted a disease
of the hip that had cut short his schooling
and left him lame and a little heavy-witted.
He earned his living as yardman and billiard-
marker in a hotel down the line, and the old
man had long ceased to boast about him.
Then his wife, that marvel among house-
keepers, had died in hospital after a lingering
illness. The other boy, Chris, was working
in the canefields and never came home, and
as for Anna —well, no one quite knew what
had happened to Anna. She had gone to
town as a waitress, and old Svenson was
evasive when inquiries were made about her.
At one time he affirmed that she had married
an officer on an oversea liner, and at another
that she was playing the piano in the pic-
tures. But people ceased asking about her
when the old man went surreptitiously to
town one week-end and brought back Oscar,
a little puny fellow of 18 months who looked
as if he had been reared at a baby-farm on
separated milk. This satisfied them finally
about Anna.
Yet in spite of these subtle and treacher-
ous blows of fate, Svenson still kept his
indomitable old head up in public. There
remained the stump, durable and securely
rooted, a testimony of all sorts of things—
his daring, his skill, and the fact that he
had been one of the pioneers.
“Forty year ago,” he used to say, thrust-
ing out his chin, “there was not’ing in the
way of risks I wouldn’t take them days.”
And in addition to the stump there was
little Oscar. He fussed over the boy like
an old hen with a single chicken, and hardly
ever let him out of his sight. Something
inexplicable had gone wrong with his own
children, but he was going to make sure that
nothing of the sort happened to little Oscar!
“Hey, Oscar, come away from that grass,”
his voice echoed out as he chipped among his
oranges. “Do you want for to get bitten with
a snake?” Or, when he was sitting on the
verandah reading his newspaper: “Now,
then, Oscar, don’t climb on that fence. How
many times do I tell you that?”
Oscar was a mild, flaxen-haired youngster,
and did not rebel against this martinet dis-
cipline. He even seemed to thrive and grow
robust under it. His admiration for his
grandfather took the form of aping him,
even in the smallest things, and when he was
swaggering in front of the butcher’s hoy, tell-
ing how many eggs he had collected or what
a big water-melon was growing at the bottom
of the garden, he might have been the old
man himself. fSvenson never had the slight-
est difficulty in shaping him in his own
image.
But it was not so easy to guard the stump.
As the township in front developed and be-
came known as a holiday resort there were
attacks on it from all sides. First it was
the proprietress of the new boarding-house,
who claimed that it was an eyesore and
blocked the view over the range from her
verandah. The schoolmaster was with her,
not merely on aesthetic grounds, but because
the youngsters had a habit of trying to climb
the stump at playtime, and there was always
a danger of accidents. Other people wanted
the relic removed for various reasons. It
seemed to have the stigma of an earlier kind
of life about it, like the first crude attempts
at building that most of them had turned
into kitchens and outhouses.
The most formidable enemy of the stump,
though, was the local councillor, for he
had power and authority, and lie wanted the
obstacle cleared away for the deviation of
a new road. A progressive type of man
who had come late on the scene and bought
his property with good money instead of
selecting it, Rainey had no sympathy with
sentimental ideas or associations.
“Old Svenson’s been skiting about that
stump for Lord knows how long,” he said.
“He’s got his money’s worth out of it by
now. Anyway, it’s a public nuisance.”
And the reply of the storekeeper, the
land-agent and his other henchmen was
always: “Yes, Mr. Rainey. You’re right
there.”
But Svenson was militant in defending the
stump’s right to exist, and he had his sup-
porters. They were mainly drawn from the
original settlers and did not talk much, but
their tenacity could be relied on. “Why
can’t Rainey let it alone?” one of them
growled. “It’s a landmark.” And the others
repeated, with an obscure sense of loyalty to
the past: “That’s right. It’s a landmark.”
The subject was always being raised when
Svenson came out to the front for his mail,
or sat in the store waiting for little Oscar
to be let out of school. It never failed to
make the old man bristle aggressively.
Since the rheumatics had come on him he
was less inclined to boast about his orange-
trees, which were running to wood, or his
fowls, that were being killed off because of
the price of corn, but any attack on the
stump always roused his fighting blood.
They would see whether Rainey was game
to remove it! If lie tried, he wouldn’t stay
long on the shire council. No, they could
make their minds easy about that.
And so the stump remained. Even
Rainey did not seem anxious to take the
first step towards removing it, in spite of
his talk. He knew there was a considerable
amount of feeling liable to be aroused if he
acted —more than if he did nothing. Hav-
ing political ambitions, 'he was aware of
the risks of offending even the least of his
future constituents. As well let sleeping
dogs lie- —for awhile, anyway. Svenson
was getting old. You could see it in his
figure, no matter how he tried to keep his
back straight and his head up when people
were looking at him. There would come a
day
It did come, sooner than even he expected.
Old Svenson was chipping among his orange-
trees one afternoon when the schoolmaster
and the boy from the store came down the
track bearing little Oscar on an improvised
stretcher. He had been climbing the stump
in the dinner-hour, and had slipped at the
top niche, “t’irty feet from the ground,” as
old Svenson had often said. The school-
master did not attempt to drive home the
moral, but his long, solemn face said plainly
enough: “There, what did I tell you? Your
own grandson! You see how chickens come
home to roost.”
While the others were present the old
(Continued on next page.)


St
%
m
\ fo,
si
■r
“Gvery picture
Veils a 5/or/*
Comfort Old Age
by keeping the kidneys active
]\A UCH CAN BE DONE to comfort old people, for
*’ * backache, urinary disorders, sciatica, lumbago,
rheumatism, gravel and inflammation of the bladder are
too often suffered unnecessarily. The kidneys, pro-
bably, are the weak spot. They need the special
strengthening help of Doan’s Backache Kidney Pills.
This kidney stimulant makes the kidneys active; it
strengthens them and helps them keep the blood pure,
thereby preventing, as well as relieving, the symptoms of kidney disorder. Don’t run serious risks! No
matter what your age may be, an occasional course of Doan’s Pills will prove helpful. Doan’s act on the
kidneys; they do not affect the liver, the stomach or the bowels.
INTERESTING SYDNEY EVIDENCE.
A WOMAN’S CASE.
A MAN’S CASE.
Mrs. S. Drew, 28 Briggs Street, Camperdown, Sydney, says:—“Some
time ago my kidneys were in a seriously disordered state and in consequence
I .suffered terribly. My back never stopped aching, and I was almost crippled
with the ailment. Dropsical swellings showed on my legs and ankles, and
there was puffiness under my eyes. The state of my health worried me
terribly, and as I had taken all sorts of remedies without deriving any
benefit, I was beginning to think I would never be well again. However at
last I got Doan’s Backache Kidney Pills, and they proved a godsend. The
first couple of bottles eased my suffering a little, and seven bottles of the
puls cured me completely.”
Five years later Mrs. Drew says “I have had no return of my old
complaint since Doan s Backache Kidney Pills cured me over five years ago.”
Mr. Jas. C. Struck, Yugilbah, 4 Eurella Street, Burwood, Sydney, says:
“Seven years ago I was very ill with a bad attack of disordered kidneys. I
suffered excruciating agony from backache and was at times so bad that I
could hardly move. Everything I had to do was a trouble, and I was miser-
able and depressed. The kidney secretions were thick and cloudy and
contained a red sediment, and my ankles swelled to twice their usual size.
I went on suffering in this way for a long time, nothing I took doing me any
good, but at last I got the right remedy, and that was Doan’s Backache
Kidney Pills. After taking two bottles of these Pills I felt much relieved,
and by the time I had finished eight bottles I was completely cured and felt
a different man.”
Ten years later Mr. Struck says:—“Thanks to Doan’s Backache
Kidney Pills I am still free from backache and kidney trouble.”
DOAN’S
Backache
Kidney
ĥ
Doan’s Backache Kidney
Pills are sold by ail
chemists and storekeepers
at 2/9 per bottle, or from
Foster-McClellan Co., 13
Hamilton Street, Sydney.
man made light of the accident. Oscar would
be back at school in a day or two, lie
affirmed, and the boy repeated in a thin voice
that he would be back at school in a day
or two. But when, next morning, he still
complained of his back, the old man rang
up the nearest ambulance and had him taken
to town, making up his mind in the train
that he would consult the best specialist.
Emil had not seen a doctor soon enough, and
there were going to be no risks with little
Oscar.
It was nearly a month before he returned,
and during that time a few more lines had
collected on his forehead. The specialist
had informed him that little Oscar had in-
jured his spine and would have to lie on
his back for at least a year; indeed, it was
doubtful whether he would ever walk again.
Old Svenson had become hard of mental hear-
ing, and it took some time for the news to
sink into him. When it did, he decided to
sell his place and come back to town, so
that he might be near the boy.
There was no car to meet the train, and
as he walked up the five miles of steep road
in the moonlig-ht he had time to ponder
on all that had happened to him since he
first made the ascent. The people he had
loved and taken pride in—his wife, the two
boys, Anna, and finally little Oscar! Not
much left to boast about! As lie panted up
the last abrupt rise he was faced by the
stump, looking white in the moonlight and
durable as stone. For a long while he stood
peering at it with his short-sighted eyes,
his chin thrust out aggressively as of old,
and his body rigid as hardwood. Then he
stumped off to where Rainey lived among
his orange-trees in the big white house over-
looking the range.
“You can root out that stump,” he said,
when Rainey appeared at the door.
The local councillor was in his pyjamas,
and already half-asleep.
“Wlfat!” he said thickly.
“That stump,” repeated the old man.
“You can root it out now. I give you leaf.
It’s stood too dam’ long already.”
It was his final surrender to life.
“Too dam’ long already,” lie could hear
little Oscar echoing, as he drifted off through
the orange-trees.
VANCE PALMER.
“Nuggetting.”
(FOR THE BULLETIN.]
HE sun was sinking when the quick
eyes of the boss caught sight of a
little mob of driven horses approach-
ing. They pulled up at the yards, and a
young man, dismounting, walked down
smartly and inquired for the boss.
“That’s me,” replied the individual
addressed, his eyes running the newcomer
over critically and taking in the hundred
and one marks which denote the smart
cattleman. He was visibly impressed by
the bearing of his visitor.
“Anything doing?” asked the latter.
“All depends. What are you looking for—
head-stockman’s job?”
“Ride, eh?”
“Always take them as they come.”
“Well now, I might find you a job, although
things are bad. Where were you working
last?”
“On the Basalt Tableland, and doing well,
till a cow came and spoilt it.”
“Tell us all about it,” urged the boss
sympathetically, feeling already a bond of
union.
Seating himself, the young man obeyed.
“Well, I had a job, as I was saying. Three
quid a week, and a percentage of nuggets.
Being next to two State stations, it was a
cake-walk. I was cleaning up fifty a month,
and would have been there yet only for a
cow spoiling it. You sec it was like this.
I had just stamped seventy-odd nuggets,
when Constable Flatfoot, from the Clarke,
rides up. Of course I got the office lie was
coming.-
“‘Where did you get these from?’ says he
looking at the nuggets. They were a nice
soft lot of shorthorns.
“ ‘Get ’em?’ says I. ‘Why, bred ’em, of
course—how do you think a man’ll get this
sort if he don’t breed ’em?’
“ ‘Where's their mothers, though?’ says he.
cunning like.
“‘Where’s yours?’ thinks I. But I says
‘Oh, is that it? You’re pretty fly, you are,’
and he laughs. I takes him up to the Top
Paddock, and shows him 150 Hereford cows
what I’d spayed the year before. He says
it’s all right. Then he gives me all his
guts. Says the inspector told him I was a
red-hot poddy-dodger. I starts to roar, but
he says it’s a damn shame, and anyone could
see I was on the level.
“ ‘Come and make the best of it with me,’
says I, ‘and after dinner fill up your bags.
There’s a bit of green stuff in the garden.
You’re welcome to anything I can do for
you. One of your horses has a quarter. I’ll
take out the tackle and tack on a slipper
that’ll see you home.’
“ ‘How do you know that?’ says lie. Gawd,
he was a gift!
“ ‘Well,’ says I, ‘one of the boys heard
about it.’
“Well, he goes off and I’m left alone for
a few months. I takes a run over the boun-
dary to put in a week before Crismuss.
I’m forking Tiny that morning, and she’ll
hold anything that jumps up in front of her.
That mare could be trained to muster nug-
gets of her own, and if she could talk she’d
never give anything away. We’d got a nice
lot in hand, including a brindle mick, when
another bridle-scrubber starts up. I after
him, and looped the loop with him. Friday
catches him, and we make a steer of him —
not earmarking him, as you’ll understand.”
The boss nodded comprehendingly, his
admiration increasing.
“We’re just about putting the nuggets
together on the dinner camp when Friday
points back along our tracks, and I see a
white cockatoo circling and screaming up
above the trees. They’re the best bush
telegraph going. I tips the new John from
the Clarke —they say he was weaned young.
We splits the nuggets up, and leaves them
going good in all directions. It breaks me
heart to do it, but I always work safe.”
Again the boss’s good opinion registered
a distinct increase.
“We canter the horses up to a big hole,
and I tell the nigger to take the horses on
to a flat about two miles away. ‘Don’t
hobble the crooks,’ says I, ‘and look for ’pos-
sums and sugar-bags on the way back, casual
like.’
“I gets the fishing-lines out and starts
fishing. After a while up he comes, and I
get a screw at him, and me heart sinks.
He was a bad-looking cow.
“‘What, fishing?’ says he, smiling hard.
“ ‘Oh, yahss,’ says I, kidding a bit.
“‘Did you drop a couple of black bream?’
says he. The cow must have seen the
nuggets.
“‘Well, no,’ says I; ‘but there’s a couple
of eels here,’ putting one back over on him.
“ ‘Oh, they’re easy caught,’ says he, put-
ting in the grit.
“I starts roaring a treat. ‘Look here,'
says I, ‘it’s bad enough after winning the
war to come back and find a lot of Bol-
sheviks in power, putting in the dirt with
their Reputation Acts and Delegations and
things, without being insulted by the likes
of you. Who might you be at all?’
“ ‘l’m a missionary,’ says he, soft like,
‘and I’m for a bit of converting.’
“I kids innocent. ‘All right, Mr. Mis-
sionary ; then come and make the best of
it with me,’ and I puts on the billy.
“ ‘Do you own those two horses back there
with the blotched brands on the shoulders?’
The cow must have seen the horses, too. He
was a sneaking animal.
“ ‘They belong to a mate of mine,’ says
I. ‘He give me permission to work them.
I think they’re Territory bred.’
“ ‘I think so too,’ says he. He was a real
bad cow.
“ ‘Where’s your mate now?’ says he.
“ ‘He’s dead,’ says I. ‘He was a pretty
good man for the country, too- —fought his
way right through the war up to the Battle
of Jutland. He took a whole lot of pri-
soners and guns there. I was with him
when lie done it.’
“ ‘Who might you have been fighting at
the Battle of Jutland?’ says he sudden.
“ ‘The Rooshians!’ says I, hitting out a
bit lucky. The cow had me guessing.
“ ‘Oh well, that’s all right, then,’ says he ;
but I didn’t like his snaky little eye.
“ ‘Where’s your camp?’ says I to him, wink-
ing at Friday—the Black Drop was begin-
ning to look a bit frightened.
“ ‘Oh, back there,’ says he.
“ ‘Back where?’ says I, grinning.
“ ‘Do you know this country about here?’
says he.
“ ‘Well, no,’ says I.
“After a bit he rides away, and I feel
real sick-like. ‘Get the horses, and we’ll
sling the packs and trot, Friday. That mis-
sionary will be camping pretty close to us
to-night, I’m thinking.’
“Well, we get home late that night, and
next morning early I send the tarpot out
into the forest* cutting the missionary’s
tracks, to see wliat he was doing it on. I
reads the paper, and about eleven o’clock go
out to put on the billy, and me nerves gets
another shock. Here’s the missionary, sit-
ting in the kitchen, quite quiet, and his
horse tied up behind the hut.
“ ‘How is it, old man?’ says I, putting our
me hand.
“ ‘So so,’ says lie. ‘I seen Friday out in
the forest this morning' —what was he doing-
Thinks I. it’s the stockwhip and boot for
you to-night, Friday—you’re getting too f a t
for my work.
“ ‘Likely. he was hunting sugarbags,’ says
I. ‘lt’s Oismuss for him, you know.’
“ ‘Didn’t have no tommy-hork,’ says the
Snake. ‘He looked like he might be cuttin-
tracks,’ says he.
“ ‘What was you saying to him?’ says I
desperate like.
“ ‘Oh, it wasn’t my place to speak to the
boy—he was only carrying out orders, I
suppose,’ says he.
“ ‘Look here, what are you hinting at, any-
how?’ says I; but he never answers me.
“ ‘That’s a nice bit of blood you’ve got in
the spell liorse-paddock,’ says he. ‘ls he out
of that old bay mare?’
“ ‘Yes,’ says I. ‘That’s so.’
“ ‘He looks like one of Tyer’s_breed,’ says
he. ‘He’s a gelding, ain’t he?’
“ ‘No,’ says I, taking a risk.
“ ‘Thought he was,’ said he, slow like, and
looking at me hard. ‘Why don’t you try
him at the Picnic Races? He ought to pull
off the bracelet.’
“The cow had the Indian sign on me, and
I couldn’t answer him. He goes out and
catches his horse, and a brumby-looking cow
he is. He hops into the pigskin, and the
animal goes to market. Three straight ahead
and one back —the missionary does the
twopenny-stamp trick. He pulls up and
looks at me for a bit.
“ ‘Do you know the Moo Moo?’ says lie.
“ ‘Do I know the Moo Moo?’ says I—the
man’s ignorance was something terrible. ‘Do
I know me hat?’
“ ‘Well, there’s some that does, and some
that don’t,’ says he. I start sweating under
the armpits again. ‘Now I put it to you,
friendly-like. You can’t mother nuggets on
to spayed cows with me, you know. I’ll tell
Tyers about that colt —see that he gets him
all right, will you ? And turn this game in—
I’m giving you a chance!’
“He rides away, and I get a nervous break-
down. I give the tarpot the father of a
hiding when he gets home, go in and collect
from the boss, and lights out for the Terri-
tory ; and here I am. The game’s about done
in on the basalt with that missionary poking
about.”
He stopped talking, and the boss spoke
decidedly. “You’ll do me, and you’ll find my
job as good as the one you turned in.”
“When will I start up?”
“To-morrow at daylight, if you like. Do
you want showing round?”
“No, thanks—l can always poke my own
roads.”
“Well, you’re on three quid a week, and
five bob a head for nuggets, either side of
the boundary. How’s that?”
“Good,” said the young man emphatically.
“Twenty-five per cent, is a fair branding for
a herd, ain’t it?”
“Good enough for me,” replied his new
employer.
R. H. A.


m
%
m
M
m
m
-
\
£1
WESTING HOUSE
Morse Silent Rocker-Joint
CHAIN DRIVES
Ensure minimum wear —
Maximum life and highest
efficiency.
Chains in stock—wheels manu-
factured tq suit requirements.
Write for particulars
and Booklet BM 414.
THE WESTINGHOUSE BRAKE CO.
OF AUSTRALASIA LTD.,
Queensland Agents—HOLMES & Cl
N.Z. Office—93-101 Featherston Street,
Victorian Office—99 Queen Street, Melbourne.
CONCORD WEST, N. S. WALES,
tßimian uuice —vv uueeii aireet, luciuoumc.
South Australian Agents: Messrs. ELDER, SMITH & CO., LTD., Adelaide, S.A.
NON-PLUS-ULTRA
CORKBOARD
for
Cold Storage Insulation.
Compressed Cork Sheets, Standard Size 3ft. x Ift.,
in various thicknesses.
Large stocks available for immediate delivery.
J. WILDRIDGE 8 SINCLAIR, LTD.,
97 PITT STREET, SYDNEY,
And at Melbourne, Brisbane, Perth and Auckland (N.Z.).
ft
‘v&s
p
\
s
1 I
J
Host I/ol&rooASat/s ~
"I brew my sauce in the
good oid fashioned way.
vAye, and then I mature it
■\like an old wine.”
If any illustration in “The Bulletin” takes your
;T/.. . > ' ' ’ .
fancy, write to the Manager, who will quote you price
for the original.
Shot Load
(A Remington,
Buck Shot load
nitro
Wfetproof
FAST, hard-hitting cartrid-
ges for deer, wolf or other
animals of medium size.
A “Nitro Club” case, plenty
of power in the powder behind
12 pellets of buck shot and you
have a Remington Game Load
that cannot be equalled for ef-
fectiveness. Wetproof,' too,
which protects the powder and
prevents the case from swelling when the weather is wet
or extremely humid.
Shoot Remington Game Loads (with picture of game
on the box). Order them by the name of the game you
are going after.
REMINGTON ARMS COMPANY, Inc.
D. D. BRYANT. Representative
G.P.O. Box 686 E Melbourne, Viet.
©
O©
©
©
Are of vegetable origin
Best suited to purposes
Of purification
A Wonderful Pill
Simple to take - easy to use
Contain nothing harmful
Contain no gas - not oily
A Safe Pill
You can rely upon
BEECHAM’S PILLS
To give natural assistance
To stomach, liver and bowels
And promote sound health
A Sure Pill
feEECHAM’S PILLS
Afford positive relief
when you suffer from
Biliousness, sick headache
Indigestion, constipation.
aMm the tJuny-
cf nuut
MARINE
Engines
SATISFIED users /are proofs
'■ of quality. Ov kr 70% of
the leading boat-b pilders of
the world regard Kermath Marine
Engines as standard (equipment.
All Parts Standard and Inter-
changeable. Arperican Bosch
imjpu&ei coupling.
HALL BROS.’, LTD.,
Careening Gove
(Foot of Willoughy Street),
Milfoil's Point.
North Sydney, N.S.W.
Kermath Manufacturing Co.
Detroit) Mich., U. S. A.
■■■■■■■■■■
ħ
3 to 100 H. P.
1 to 6
Cylinders
4 Cycle
Engines
ItSOifeastfE
o f
BEST FOR THE HAIR ON
ALL OCCASIONS
Anzora will master the most un-
ruly hair and keep it in place all
day. Anzora Cream for greasy
scalps, Anzora Viola for dry
scalps. Sold by chemists, hair-
dressers, stores or from our agents
REFUSE ALL SUBSTITUTES,
MASTERS THE HAIR
Agents for Australia:
Lyall Willis & Co., Ltd.
Melbourne —Baldwin & Slattery
Pty., Ltd. '
Sydney—Jones & Joseph, Ltd.
Adelaide —Arthur Glover.
Brisbane —Gregory & Collins.
Perth —L. M. Cullen & Co.
Manufactured by
ANZORA PERFUMERY Co., Ltd.
Willesden Lane, London, England.
hi
t *
ojm
I
CREAM
MASTERS TOE HAIR
&
HARBOR TOURIST TRIPS
Weather and other circumstances permitting.
From Fort Macquarie at 10.15 a.m, and 2.15 p.m.
EVERY TUESDAY AND EVERY THURSDAY.
Fares: All-day, 2/6; Half-day, 1/6, Children, 1/- and 6d.
I,uncheon by reservation at Clifton Gardens Hotel. Afternoon Tea on Board.
SPECIAL TRIP EVERY No. 6 JETTY, CIRCULAR QUAY
Adults, 1/6. Children, 6d.
Tels.; 86276 (4 lines). Sydney Ferries, Ltd.


/still com
/ STILL COIN
K STILL COIN
/STILL COIN-.
i STILL GOIK’
i.STILL SOll
infill f;oL
:>0 L XLx Lx x\L Txx s
• X vs 'LL $ s x X <L x"\ x L
/ LTI L fc i.sGst\
i XVXXXX x x v xL oXNX \ G
/ ms iLk LAim
I ST!ll
A ST
s xN x\ L
<5 Sxs >' S
~■■> m.vLL'
T $3 x\ n vL
Lv\'^ n^ N T^-v
m Sx' §m V'
,x L!; XN x'V xvvx xx xxx'x x s x'X' xXv XX. X xx' X
.AIL slXiO All L$ HA
MU 1820 STILL SOI HO STRCfc
ORN 1820 STILL GOING STROR
/ORN 1820 STILL COINS STRONV
&ORN 1820 STILL COINS ST RONS
BORN 1820 STILL 001 NO STRONG
BORN 1820 STILL GOING STRONG
lORN 1820 STILL 001 NO STRONG
IORN 1820 STILL CO!NO STRONG
lORN 1820 -STILL GOING STROf
lORN 1820 STILL GOING SIR
ORN 1820 STILL GOING S
ORN 1820 STILL COIN!
ORN 1820 STILL CO*
ORN 1820 STILL
ORN 1820 ST !j
lORN 9820
ORN Id
ORN
ORN
ORN I
ORN I
ORN I
lORN 18
ORN 18
ORN 182
ORN 1820
XV
m
a
7
s
ONd
TRONO
X STRONG
nm STRONG
'GOING STRONG
fit* GOING STRONG
ORN 1820 STILL GOING STRONG
ORN 1820 STILL GOING STRONG
ORN 1820 STILL GOING STRONG
lORN 1820 STILL GOING STRONG
ORN 1820 STILL GOING STRONG
ORN 1820 STILL GOING STRONG
ORN 1820 STILL GOING STRONG
lORN 1820 STILL GOING STRONG
ORN 1820 STILL GOING STRONG
ORN 1820 STILL GOING STRONG
ORN 1820 STILL GOING STRONG
ORN 1820 STILL GOING STROMi
ORN 1820JIP ? *
lORN 1820
ORN 1820
ORN 1820
ORN 1820
1820
>0
''".sL v 3TS.m*
Ss**®?*
"«&=«"-*? -Tfau
9°
NxsV
«*i
r
m
Yi
•St-
•JOHNNIE
WAhKER
Born 1820 ~ Still going Strong
It’s easy to see why
‘JOHNNIE WALKER ’
has the largest sale of
any whisky in the world
