

CAPSTAN
M
aisi
■
i?' ; ;
■
'
It*!
CAPSTAN
itel
@SSK«®
llilliil
Sitisl
VVq *h.o.w' 1 - vS
■
:
__
J/V.jz ■ . .
■ 4 .
. ' - M
j§jj
f I 'V®
I I 1
f 16
.
:
■ :
i
isSSSs
mm
1
■
' ft
1
■ 51 ■' .
mmsmmmmms
w
;
V*
Hi
. ■: . . ... .
OVAL HEAVY-WEIGHT
6/S-oe jo snix
Q/i-es JO SNIX
Pure Vi
an
The Bulletin
Vol. 48* —No, 2469,
See page 3s,
Thursday, June 9, 1927.
Price 6d.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.AV., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.


within the shadow
By MAURICE C. GROOM.
A book devoted to Australia’s problems.
6/- (Postage 3d.), ALL BOOKSELLERS.
'VV/’RITE the 1D27 New Library Cata-
logue, which is now ready and will he
sent post free with full terms and particulars
on application to v ars
DYMOCK’S BOOK ARCADE, LTD.
428 George Street, Sydney.
[L.YSAGHT 7
m
o
3
R
AUSTRALIA
Support Australian Industries.
All users of Galvanized Iron should specify
Lysaght’s Australian-made
Galvanized Corrugated Iron.
Manufactured wholly from Australian Raw
Materials, and equal to the best imported.
*WtmderUch
mw %
METAL CEILINCS
Obtain the benefit of low prices and ideal designs
by choosing Wunderlich Art Metal Ceilings for
your rooms. They are unequalled for (a) moderate
cost; (b) ease of fixing, (c) tasteful appearance ;
(d) permanent freedom from blemishes. Stocked
by your local supplier of building materials.
WUNDERLICH LIMITED, Baptist St., Redfern, Sydney.
Write to-day
for fi
ree
Catalogue
M. 27.
e
There’s no gloom in the home
where Hypol is used. Children
nourished with this famous
energy food develop affability,
alertness of mind and body,
vigor, happiness.
Hypol also provides a valuable
treatment in tubercolosis, and
is a proved safeguard against
that widespread and most
damaging disease—Rickets.
The beauty of Hypo! is its
delicious appetising flavour. It
looks and tastes like cream, yet
contains 50 per cent, of Cod
Liver Oil; pure, rich vitamin*
laden oil from the deep waters
of the great North Sea.
Hypol is just Hypol. You
should ask for it by name if
you want this distinctive life-
saving emulsion.
HYPOL
is good for sick people of all ages •
A rich food—A stimulating tonic
and healer all in one .
tn large bottles 2/6, from your chemist or grocer*
Made by EJELTON, GRIMWADE & CO. PTY. LTD., Melbourne.
If any illustration in “THE BULLETIN” takes your fancy, write
to the MANAGER, who will quote you price for the original.
HUDSON'S EUMENTHOL JUJUBES
Contain no cocaine or other poisonous drug. Suited for old and young. For Coughs,
Colds, Sore Throats, Bronchitis, Influenza.
è
What the Medical World says:—The Lancet:
Proved to be as effective bactericidally as is
creosote.” THIS REPORT FROM THE “LAN-
CET” LABORATORY IS UNDOUBTED EVIDENCE
of the VALUE OF EUMENTIIOL JUJUBES as ai>
ANTISEPTIC.
1/6 a Tin.
Sold at Chemists, Grocers, Storekeepers; or
Post Free from the Sole Manufacturers —
Hudson’s Eumenthol Co. Ltd., Sydney,
on receipt of 1/6 in stamps of any Province.
The Red Page
The Pot and the Kettle
An assertion frequently made and pretty
generally accepted is that most of the queer
and rather deplorable fiction of recent years
is written by women—and mostly read by
them. Is this a fact?
Even a brief survey of the field makes
it evident that by no means all of the
modern male writers can be complimented
on that becoming restraint and reticence
with which they are generally credited at
the expense of their feminine confreres.
Take for instance what is said to be—need-
less to say one speaks here from report
only—the most remarkable work in print
at the present time, “Ulysses,” written by
an Irishman, James Joyce. Sir Edmund
Gosse—with the possible exception of that
other stalwart pillar of English letters,
George Saintsbury—is our most distin-
guished living critic. Always temperate
and sane, he measures his terms to a nicety.
Therefore, when he refers incidentally to
“Ulysses” as a “foul chaos,” the ordinary
citizen will be well advised to take the
route of the Levite, and pass by on the other
side—possibly reinforced by a respirator.
In fact, reversing the ancient procedure, Sir
Edmund’s Siren warning will keep him off
“Ulysses.” Yet another Irish writer, Shane
Leslie, of the Dublin Review, is said to
have withdrawn one of his novels from
circulation, with apologies to the authori-
ties of his church. Every reader now knows
the salient features of the work of D. H.
Lawrence. It can be enjoyed or avoided,
according to temperament. Even the wor-
thy John Galsworthy, whose world-without-
end sagas constitute the gospel of the
earnest and conscientious novel-reader, is
not without a vein of coarseness. It was
a man-milliner who created “The Green
Hat,” which had such an insensate vogue
that only now when it is distinctly last
year’s mode does its shoddy ornament and
essential vulgarity become glaringly appa-
rent. To the novels of Aldous Huxley orig-
inality must be conceded; but his—quite
unnecessary—occasional blasphemy must be
repellent to people of any refinement, what-
ever their creed. The masculine pen is
also mainly responsible for the rising-tide
of-color books treating of those blue anc
spicy isles so tropical in climate. Allowin
for the Gallic tradition, one forbears to cit
Anatole France or Marcel Proust or, con
tinuing this condescension to foreigners
Gabriel D’Annunzio. Even without going
abroad, this list might be indefinitely ex
tended by including short-story writers.
As to the contention that the readers o:'
the more eccentric novels are women, the
very obvious comment has been made tha ;
women read more novels of every kinc
than men; they are popularly supposed to
have more time. Then, too, they are imita
five and timid of relying on their own
judgment. Any number of intelligent womer
readers are quite capable of determining
the merits of what they read. In fact
they do so. But alas! it is easier to shou;
with the crowd; and the herd instinct‘comes
to light in unsuspected places. Bishop
Creighton once wrote that it was compara-
tively easy to let the ape and tiger die
but the donkey was a far more intractable
animal. Even more persistent, it has been
noted, is the parrot. We need some heroic
lady here and- there to take her courage
m both hands and speak up like bold
Horatius, soynewhat in this wise: “I am a
person of fair intelligence and some educa
tion, with the ideals of a normal human
being. This book, given me to read, strikes
me as evil nonsense. I decline to be brow-
beaten, by published blurbs’ or contem-
porary drawing-room gossip into concealing
my honest opinion. In vain shall Mrs
High-Brow tell me 'Purple Passages’ is just
gorgeous and that Prof. Knowall pronounces
its irony to be the most exquisite thing
since Swift. In the language of our own
day, he can have it; I will neither buy,
borrow, steal nor recommend the book.” But
does she do this? In practice, no! She
reasons instead that Mrs. H.-B. is very
clever; that Prof. Knowall is a great
authority; that all this brilliance which
entirely escapes her must be. over her head.
So she hastens to tell the next person who
inquires how she liked the book that she
simply loved it. And thus the merry boom
goes on, to the satisfaction of the trade.
Signs, however, are not wanting that "the
taste for queer fiction, either masculine or
feminine, is on the wane. Repeated shocks
deaden sensation, and when everyone is
on the same lines the novelty wears off
It is reassuring that in the midst of the
maelstrom _ the classics stand secure. On a
seaside pier recently an ultra-modern,
shingled and short-coated damsel was over-
heard exhorting a contemporary to read
this is strange but true—of all people,
George Eliot. In support of her advice she
quoted with evident appreciation the
familiar saying of Mrs. Poyser: “I’m not
denym’ the women are foolish; God
Almighty made ’em to match the men.”
Which famous axiom is an epitome of the
point of view of the present article.
CONSTANCE E. LOWERS.
What is Good Prose?
What is the will-o’-the-wisp quality that
stamps one association of words as more
worthy of preservation than another? Here
am I with a typewriter before me. In that
board, I know, are keys which, if I strike
them in proper sequence, will gain me
immortality. All the words of the language
are here—a gigantic puzzle, but with the
power to confer gigantic rewards! And it
m my power (perhaps!) to describe
through the medium of those letters every
phase of human thought.
On the psychological side thought is the
starting point. To convey to the reader
some thought is naturally the primary
object. By the success of his prose in
transmitting the required image will its
quality be measured. There are various
obstacles in the way. Words are only the
medium, the liaison, between the two minds,
and as such they should not obtrude them-
selves upon consciousness more than - is
absolutely necessary to create the picture.
100 few words are as disastrous as too
many; in one case they leave loopholes for
wrong interpretation, and in the other the
reader is wearied by the laboring of a
thought he has grasped long since. Too
few should not be confused with few. Few
words is the desideratum, but many words
be too few to convey the meaning,
I his is perhaps where the intelligence or
agility of mind of the reader enters, and
ozle can easily conceive even a national
standard of intelligence which would react
upon the methods of that nation’s writers.
So much for the reader. Certain aspects
of the writer and his difficulties are more
interesting. What type of man must he be
who would write good prose? Assuming
education, personality appears to be the
deciding factor. The ability to write well
and clearly is in a sense instinctive in some
men. Its foundations are laid upon in-
herited traits, modified by experience, and
incorporating an accretion of habits and
philosophic concepts. The quality of this
combination—in other words, his person-
ality—determines a man’s success or other-
wise. Knowledge is the king-pin; know-
ledge of human nature if one is writing
fiction, of the particular subject if it hap-
pens to be an essay or academic treatise.
A finished book of fiction is only fiction
in a sense. Every little act or experience,
however insignificant, that has helped to
mould the character of the author goes into
the work. In that sense it is a true and a
vivid spotlight on a life. The selfish, arro-
gant or vain man who is a successful author
is demonstrably cleverer than his reader-
exammers. He must be to succeed. He
must conceal his own failings. The reading
public pretends to itself that it likes tales
of real life. Realism is its watchword. But
Heaven help the author who attempts to
portray realism honestly! To succeed he
must endow the story with something more
than mere realism. He must blend as
artistically as he may the real and the ideal.
From his store of actual experiences he
calls forth realism in plenty. But that ia
not enough. It has to be doctored for the
edification of a public that has itself experi-
enced all he takes as a basis, and found
no pleasure in some of the events lie relates.
A bare recital, as they themselves have
found it in real life, has no interest. They
have an ideal. It urges them relentlessly,
Sometimes it is conscious, sometimes not.
But it_ is always present, whatever the state
of society, and it is, one would think, the
successful author who responds to it most
adequately, and glosses life over-so that it
becomes wholly entertainment. Each and
every one of the scenes he depicts is familiar
to some member of society. From his
imagination he draws the wherewithal to
gild reality. On the same principle as a
child who groups a bear’s head with a
dog’s body, and supplies it with elephant’s
legs, he shuffles and arranges real events
into a new pattern that attracts. His pat-
tern may be grotesque, but it must be with-
in the limits of probability. Within each
one of us is an undefined but jealous
barrier that will reject automatically that
which oversteps the bounds of probability
and turns interest to ridicule.
It is the problem of the real in the ideal,
and the ideal in the real, and it is the
obligation of the would-be successful author
and writer of good prose to blend them
into an artistic and convincing unity. It
is upon his ability to do this that he stakes
his chances.
ALFRED QUINLAN
The Barbarian Outlook
Maxim Gorki tells in his story “The
Orloff Couple” of a man who, by his
insistent desire to do something startling
was tortured into drunkenness and wife-
beating. There was nothing very startling
m either drunkenness or wife-beating in
Russia, and everyone, including his wife,
seemed to accept these habits as an inevit-
able part of married life. The story, how-
ever, consists of Orloff’s attempts to analyse
his reason for drinking and beating his
wife, and the nearest he could come to an
explanation was that he burned with a
desire to do some great, some startling
some truly amazing thing that would attract
to him the attention and the admiration
of the entire world. Yet he never did any-
(Continued on vane 5.\


Anthony Horderns’
Overcoats
::c<cb: ;
Sags
mm
m w.m
\ 'bar**.'#''*
. fl
■
mm&
m
mmm
mm
~Pt:
mm
mi.
tm
itlil
mu
mm
f
%
f
Men’s
Clothing
Ground
Floor,
George
Street
For Men
Raglan Overcoats, 84/-
ILLUSTRATED AT LEFT
Men’s Raglan Overcoats, in fancy Velours. In shades
of Grey, Fawn, and Brown. Smartly styled with but-
tons throught front, vertical pockets and belt all round,
as illustrated at left. Outstanding Value at . . 84/-
Wm
A
a
mmm
pi
/.
A.
tr.
Two Popular .Styles
Men’s Smart Double-
Dreasted "Pinchback”
Overcoats, with half belt
at back and flap pockets.
In a warm quality Navy
Nap. Price . . 90/-
Men’s Raglan Overcoats.
Having button-through
front and vertical poc-
kets. In Grey, Fawn,
Brown fancy Velours.
Price 105/
Super Values in
Men’s Gabardine Raincoats
Men’s Gabardine Raincoats. Raglan sleeves and ver-
tical pockets. In Fawn and Smoke shades. Lined
with Check lining.
Prices . . . . 75/-, 90/-, 105/-, 115/-, 126/- to 10 Gns.
Navy Gabardine Raincoats. Guaranteed dyes, with
Check lining.
Prices . . . . 84/-, 105/-, 115/9, 126/-, 147/-, 168/-
Tweed Gabardine in latest shades.
Prices 105/-, 126/- 147/-
Men’s Navy Gabardine Raincoats, with belt all round.
Fawn and Smoke shades; Check lining. Prices:
75/-, 84/-, 95/-, 105/-, 110/-, 115/-, 126/-, 147/-, 168/-
In Navy; check lining.
Prices 84/-, 105/-, 126/-, 147/-, 168/-
Anthony Horderns'
Postal Address :
Box No. 2712 C, C.P.O.
SYDNEY
We pay carriage on Mens
Clothing in N.S.W.


O'
f «
Chrysler” Prices Fall!
AUSTRALIA’S
BENEFIT
niTn = jin lfT;
""iu m m {J!
§gr/t
11
J
fe
?
«K
J
Chrysler Cars are now being Assembled in Australia
With resultant benefit to the Australian Buyer, Workman, Industry, and the Country
in general—Chrysler Cars will henceforth be assembled HERE. This means employ-
ment for hundreds of men. It means economy in cost of production. It means
“CHRYSLER” of even greater efficiency as regards all the details essential to
Australian conditions.
Consequent Savings in Freight and landing costs of equipment
Under Chrysler New Methods of Packing, the compactness of the consignments of Chrysler quality parts from
the factory will mean considerably lower freight in handling costs. In short, the all-round substantial savings
that will be effected by the new plan make these astonishing PRICE REDUCTIONS possible—in Australia
ONLY, of course.
Model 50
£275
(was £298)
Model 60
£360
(was £395)
Model 70
£450
(was £465)
ONLY THE PRICE IS LOWER—NO SACRIFICE OF QUALITY
CHRYSLER supreme quality standards—grace—beauty and power —will be strictly
maintained. It is the PRICE ALONE which has fallen.
Chrysler will still be— CHRYSLER THE BEAUTIFUL
AUSTRALASIAN DISTRIBUTORS:
N.S.W.: Larke Neave & Carter Ltd Grenville House, William Street Sydney,
Vic.: Colb ns Motors Pty. Ltd., Chrysler House. Collins Street, Melbourne,
Qld.. Ward Motors Limited, Wickham Street, Brisbane.
Sth. Aust.: O T. Rodda Motors Ltd., Flinders Street, Adelaide.
West. Aust.: William Attwood. 299-301 Murray Street, Perth.
Tas.: Chrysler Motor Co. Pty. Ltd., Hobart and Launceston.
N.Z.: Todd Motor Company, 97 Courtenay Place, Wellington.
Qreater Comfort —Qreater Beauty—Qreater Economy
CHRYSLER


its;
.
m
s
a
J
The sports decks of the Orient Liners are
admirably adapted to every description
of shipboard game, thereby offering the
traveller unsurpassed facilities for recrea-
tion and exercise throughout the voyage.
ORIENT LINE
thing the least extraordinary, and because
of this he felt himself confined in a prison,
oppressed by tyrants, and so justified in his
most brutal excesses.
Most of the critics have considered it a
vividly-presented study of an abnormal and
most unusual character. In reality it is
the story behind many a crime, the explana-
tion of much of the vague discontent that
predisposes so many people to anti-social
activities—and the urge that drives so many
people into literature as a profession.
It is a fact of evolution that the indi-
vidual in his development passes through
all the phases, physical and mental, through
which the race has passed. Thus the boy
must come, sooner or later, to a time when
his thoughts and desires are very much
the thoughts and desires of a tribal bar-
barian. He experiences the emotion of the
barbaric man to whom the tribe looks for
protection and meat, who is acclaimed and
well-nigh worshipped by all his little world
when he slays his quarry or scalps his adver-
sary. The barbaric man lived always in
a blaze of acclamation or in a torment of
mortification and blame; for in such
dubious times a man must be always doing
the daring deed or bringing to camp the
rich prize of food, or feel the contempt
of the tribe. And the boy of to-day comes,
sooner or later, to that mental state. He
must do something to win the acclamation
of the crowd, or feels, not quite consciously
to be sure, but poignantly, the torment
of shame. That is why boys fight though
they are told they must not fight; why
they break windows, and sometimes steal,
and run in tribes (pushes), and strive to
outvie the others in deeds of daring and
of villainy. But whereas, in the mature
barbarian, this urge was all to the good,
in the immature boy of civilisation it is
an urge that requires severe repression.
When one says that the individual passes
through the physical and mental evolution-
ary history of the race, one does not neces-
sarily imply that every individual traverses
the entire evolutionary path. There is a
rather crude mental science which credits
a man of 40 with the mentality of a
child of 10, etc.; but something nearer the
truth would be attained if we could learn
to classify men according to the social state
to which their desires, emotions and out-
look have taken them. We would learn
then that many men with the most excellent
mental equipment, with minds matured and
functioning admirably, were, nevertheless,
at a stage of higher savagery or lower bar-
barism in the evolution of their emotional
outlook. We would thus be able to explain
the puzzle of finding brilliant minds being
used in furthering crime and prohibition;
of discovering college professors to be also
revolutionists; of having to admit that
predatory business men are not necessarily
the mental inferiors of the honest. Their
minds have matured, to be sure, but the
development of their desires and emotions
has remained, like that of Orloff, in a bar-
baric state.
Since the earliest time there has been
noticeable among what used to be so
naively called the lower orders a vague
discontent that has lent itself willingly to
any movement that promised to sweeo
away the curtain of obscurity behind which
each individual of the supposedly lower
orders lived his life. This vague discontent
is the child of civilisation, and it has not
srisen out of any injustice, tyranny, or love
of freedom; it has arisen entirely because
the complexity of civilised life condemns
a large proportion of the people to
obscurity. We know it is not the love of
justice which makes for the irreconcilability
of the irreconcilables, because it is just these
same restless ones who, under a successful
tyrant, have always been the mainstay of
the tyranny; for the tyrant’s success is
always based upon an astute appeal to the
immature man’s desire for universal accla-
mation. He lifts them out of their obscurity
as did Caesar when he fed his army on
orations of praise and triumphal entries;
as did Napoleon when he suffused his fol-
lowers with high-sounding titles. It was
enough; and as long as those unfortunates
who have reached physical and mental
maturity, but have stayed barbaric in their
desires, are given even the hollowest imita-
tion of tribal acclamation, they will defend
to the last their beloved tyrant. The mis-
take of democracy is that it makes no
such provision for the immature of soul;
even a Prime Minister has to go abroad
for his paeans of praise. It is therefore in
democracy that we feel most grimly the
sinister menace of revolution.
Perhaps, of the observable expressions of
this desire for universal notice, the least
menacing and most satisfying is that given
to it by writers of poems, books, essays and
such trifles. The writer of a poem sees a
landscape and feels that because he sees it,
the world should acclaim it beautiful, so
he writes about it in a series of complicated
and rather meaningless words and often
pays his good money to have them pub-
lished. The novelist does much the same
thing except that he betrays not only his
own confidences, but the confidences of his
friends.
LESTER WAY.
Two Americans
Sinclair Lewis’s view of life is very hard
and bright, very “American.” It has the
American resonant confidence and shrill
power. It has the American vulgarity the
vociferous materialism which denies’ the
existence of anything beyond the range of
that merely vulgar vision. In Elmer
Gantry (Cape; Dymock’s) this American
is quite unscrupulous. Reading these pages
one seems to be listening to a man insisting
in a cold and powerful voice that all
pastors and ministers of God are the scum
of the earth. One turns away; but the grim
steadiness of the voice draws one back.
Presently one is lost in the skill of the
character-study; this shouting sensualist
Elmer Gantry has come to vivid life. This
is the man himself, in abject horrifying
detail, from his youth to his loud middle
years. On his appointment to a rich parish
in New York the cruel hypnotic voice ceases
at last, and one does turn away, wishing that
the silence had not been broken.
The voice having ceased, we have a chance
to look at the thing. Parsons are men, of
course; but at the very least surely they
are normal men. Gantry is sub-normal; like
an assassin, a gun-man, he keeps faith only
with his own desires. Therefore, even as
a type-careerist choosing the Church as his
ladder, this portrait of him is false. No
nation, with this treachery at its spiritual
heart, could hope to pay its bills or remain
intact. It is like saying that the Standard
Oil Company fills the lamps in Redfern and
Alaska in spite of John D. Rockefeller’s
poor business ability.
From the point of view of pure letters
this story by the artist who wrote “Babbitt”
and “Arrowsmith” is bad; it is cheap and
underlined, arrogant in its secondary jour-
nalistic skill. Psychologically, Lewis’s hatred
and contempt of his subject lead him far
and egregiously astray.
It is hatred and contempt that ruin the
book. This land is Sinclair Lewis’s America,
and this is the American ministry of God
Nothing can make these statics contempt-
ible, save a cheap and narrow vision of
them; and the greater the resonant skill
in the rendering of the prejudiced vision
the more certainly does its artistic falsity
disclose itself. A character-study of a sub-
normal man is only that. It has nothing
whatever to do with the spiritual life and
imagination of a nation of normal men.
The other American, Joseph Herges-
heimer, is not at the mercy of the by-blows
of his subject. In Tampico (Heinemann;
Dymock’s) he is, as heretofore, Semitic in
his sanctuary of sumptuousness, of mental
tapestries, warmth, color—a snob in his
phrasing and diction, but a true artist in
his job of giving substance to his imagin-
ings. We are in Mexico, at Tampico. B} r
the expenditure of the best years of his
bandit life Govett Bradier has brought this
Chorreras, the Tampico sea-terminal of the
Alianza Petroleum Corporation’s pipe-lines
from its Mexican oil-wells, into vigorous
and profitable being. Malaria intervened,
and he had to clear out for an 18-months’
spell after his breakdown. “Tampico” opens
with his return to the oil-camps, not as
boss but to take Vida, the wife of the
present manager, back to New York with
him, his love-affair with her having been
suspended by the malarial breakdown. He
is 44. and all his real life has been devoted
to the Alianza and to the defeating of
Mexican intrigue in which murder and all
violent sin are mere commonplaces. The
story is of his being caught again in this
intrigue and of its banishing from his mind
the simple, luxurious object of his return.
His job, not Vida, is his love. She betrays
him, and he does go back, but alone and
defeated; he took his hand from the plough
and looked at Vida, and he must pay the
price.
That is America: above all, the ruthless
job, the effort and achievement whereby
heroic business lights all the lamps. At its
heroic price. The wide vision comes to
us via the haunting grace of Hergesheimer’s
mind and exnression; via the murderous,
savagery of this outpost of business, this
Tampico maelstrom of sin and utter beast-
liness with all its chances of colored writ-
ing; via the patient choice of the luminous
sense ’and phrase, the luminous silence;
via the Semitic Hergesheimer manner, in
short. But the power of big business, the
gaunt beauty of its omnipotence, the de-
light of its comfortless rewards—that is all
here in Govett Bradier, together with the
bitter sacrifice big business demands and
imposes.
I think the book is artistically perfect
in all the technical details. And in the
mass I know that it has taken at least one
reader nearer than he ever hoped to find
himself to a true literary picture of America
at work.
HILARY LOFTING.
Social and Economic Contrasts
A century ago a young man fresh from
Oxford who had in the preceding year, the
twenty-fifth of his age, been returned to
the House of Commons made this entry
in his diary: “I am bound to try what God
has put into me for the benefit of old
England.” The same year a bright youth
presented himself to Mr. Edward Black-
more, an attorney of Gray’s Inn, to fill the
office of clerk at 13s. fid. per week. The
young M.P. was Anthony Ashley Cooper,
later Lord Ashley, and still later Earl of
Shaftesbury; the youth was Charles Dickens
and the two are coupled as potent influ-
ences in the early and mid-years of last
century in bringing about a revolution of
national conscience which led up to im-
mense changes in the lives of the poor.
It takes an effort of imagination now to
envisage the condition of the workers in
the early years that established England
as the great manufacturing centre of the
Old World. There rises before the vision
“a countless army of children, young, yet
strangely old; for they are bowed, maimed
and broken by the weight of the chains that
bind them to their toil. Then behind the
children emerges a multitude of women,
lean, stooped and bleeding; none is old in
years, yet none is young in looks; 13 to 16
liours a day they have kept pace with the
slave army, and when, in the dark hours,
they are at last permitted to return to the
hovels they call ‘home’ they are too
utterly fatigued to do anything save eat,
drink and sleep.” In the earlier-established
factories from 13 to 16 hours of labor a
day was so common as not to provoke even
comment. In rush seasons it was not un-
usual to work children 24 hours without a
break save for meals, snatched, as, th§-little
hands worked. Some mills raff day and
night, and the children’s bunks were never
cold, for one child rolled in as the other
tumbled out. There, was no inspection, no
check, no effective layv to enforce conditions
of cleanliness; anti, until Ashley, no soul
to voico a protest. One morsel of legisla-
tion alone existed, and it merely covered
apprentices in cotton-mills and was without
teeth for no means of enforcing it, had been
provided.
It was not-till 1830 that Ashley, by this
time Lord Shaftesbury, with a little group
whose most prominent member was Richard
Oastler, commenced an organised attack on
the abuses of the system. Later, they were
joined by Michael Sadler, the Torv mem-
ber for Newark, who introduced ‘a Ten-
v T) ii , ’ , ,i t i
hours Bill to meet the cases of women and
children. the bill ended in a compromise,
but it was a beginning and on it has been
built the succession oi factory laws that
now guard the interests of workers in every
form of manufacture, and which the law-
givers in all parts have made the models
of their own legislation.
It is interesting to compare the social
outlook of Shaftesbury with that of the
Socialist Ivail Maix, of whom he was a
contemporary, bha tesbury was 17 when
Marx was born and he delivered his maiden
speech in Parliament just 20 years before
the latter published his “Communist Mam-
festo.” “Both,” writes J. Wesley Bready
in his Lord Shaftesbury and Social -
Industrial Progress (Allen and Unwin),
“challenged the existing social order and
pointed toward the dawn of a New Day;
both felt supreme contempt for hypocrisy
, , • i j , , h ■"f - -
and cherished an ardent devotion to sin-
cerity; both fought the rulers of wickedness
in high places and pleaded the cause of the
hopeless and disinherited.” But the reme-
dies they applied had no common ingre-
dient. Shaftesbury based his hopes on
spiritual values. Reform should come from
a cohesion of the mass in united humani-
tarian effort. Marx looked to the achieve-
ment of socio-economic reforms by disrup-
tion. The means were materialistic, the
’
en l ~ I ma tenaiism.
The spirit which animated Shaftesbury
and Dickens, each potent in his own direc-
tion, completely changed the face of indus-
trial and social conditions. They found
latent in the body of humanity a capacity
for sacrifice and a zeal for fair play, ami
they transformed the old conditions of cal-
lous indifference into a vast protective net-
work. The purely materialistic forces that
were the basis of the Marxian philosophy
found an outlet in this twentieth century
and produced—the red Bolshevism of
Russia.
T.C.
A Satchel of Books
People and Places in Marshland , by Chris-
topher Marlowe (Palmer). The author
sketches witli a graphic and sympathetic pen
the rural life of East Anglia.
Penn’s Sixpenny Library (Benn). A
series of reasonably well-printed booklets,
designed to bring within the range of all
pockets a body of concentrated information
on scientific, historical and literary sub-
jects.
Hoodman Blind, by A. C. G. Hastings
(John Lane). Martin Hunt, returning from
service with the British troops in the North
Oameroons, falls a victim to a German mine
in the Mediterranean. He escapes with his
life, bnt forfeits his memory. On the eve
of his departure for the war he had married ;
and An interesting and well-told story.
The Hurcotts, by Muriel Hine (John
Lane). A quiet domestic story without any
modern sexual complications. The central
figure is Abbie, the ugly duckling of the
Hurcott family. A cleverly and sympatheti-
cally delineated character.
•The Triumph of the Rat, by Denise
Robins (Philip Allan; Dymock’s). Many
movie films are made from novels; in this
case the novel is made from the film. In a
previous volume “The Rat” was depicted in
his character of an apache in Paris; the
present batch of his exploits carry him
into a higher social scale and through amaz-
ing adventures. Pierre, the rat, in the end
works out his salvation in the Great War as
a soldier of France.
Vivian, by H. L. Gates (Barse and Hop-
kins; Dymock’s). A novel of vivid modern
life, the interest in which rests on the knees
of Vivian. She had a way of saying things
with her knees that w T as uncanny. They
were bare knees with the stockings rolled
down, and, as one young man reflected, “were
inordinately eloquent.” The “frankness of
her knees” stirred him. Otherwise, too, she
seemed to be mostly unclad. The novel
closes with the impassioned declaration;
“Ah, my beloved, the thing I love about you
most is just as plain as you used to make
the dimples on your knees.” This is what
they buy for two dalilers in the TT.S.A.
♦
"E.K.G.”: David McKee Wright sug-
gests that certain English odes are unsuit-
able for setting to music. He includes in
his list of such pieces Wordsworth’s “On
the Intimations of Immortality.” Mr.
Wright is mistaken as to most of the com-
positions he mentions and especially as
to Wordsworth’s. This is exceptionally well
suited to musical setting, as I have myself
proved.


The Wonderful "Lock-Grip” Wire Strainer
i6iC/»6 RCDutcAN
there's no
Simple,
TIME, MONEY,
Here is a tool t.h
invented foaWhe
on
mh the
■flrated powi
vtirk—the hjr®est
throuap
4lb..
be turned in your
motor-car out of
Get one and test'
or breakage impossible. Thousands
e\ eryone delighted.
Price 30/- each. Victorian postage,
Interstate, 2/8 (plus exchange)
Obtainable everywhere, or write the Agents -
3. ,'OHEN, SONS 4 CO PTY., LTD ,
Hardware Merchants,
262 Queen Street, MELBOURNE
>1 gents wanted where not remrpjtrnted.
erful, Rapid.
D ENERGY SAVED,
absolutely vcHlpses anything
straining of fencing wires
Joins,
rst ease I ta/norm ous
akes light oOffny fencing
tpnsile cannot slap
rl4 inches It can
yet it will pull your
risk
Failure
sold —
1/6
CASH’S
WASHABLE
RIBBONS
(Brocaded)
Ideal for Lincrerie
TMPARTING a Charm of
■A Daintiness and Distinc-
tion—made of Guaranteed
Fast Washing Silks with
Pretty Brocaded Effedts in
Dainty Pastel Shades —
once threaded there’s no
need to remove for Wash-
ing. 1-in. width is largely
used for Shoulder Straps.
■sAsk Your draper
JF UNOBTAINABLE WRITE TO
J. & J. CASH PTY. LTD.
Cubitt St.. Richmond
MELBOURNE y^ :o
ip
\Kh
m
uni
actual 512 £
The cigar foi
particular
smokers.
All Hotels and
Tobacconists.
6(1. each
10 cigars, 6/«
25, 12/6
50, 23/9
100, 46/-
Post paid to au3
address.
Sampler Box,
containing two
cigars, A/- post
free.
CRAIG g AITREN,
6548 George Street
Sydney,
Distributors fo.'
Club Reil
Cigar
Factory.
YOUR SIZE
at 39/6 per pair
This Abbey Black Velour Calf Shoe
is made in half-sizes each in three fit-
tings, narrow, medium and wide.
It is designed on a special last is
supple and fits the foot easily. No risk
of discomfort if you specify the width
you need.
For greater ease the shoe is made
with a slight arch where it laces over
the instep. It fits particularly well at
the ankle—without unsightly gaps.
The lining is of canvas and soft
leather doubled at the heel. The sole
is strong and flexible.
Order by Post
You will find that this shoe offers the
comfort of one made-to-order. The
photo illustrates the striking neatness
of its finish.
ABBEY
Established over 80 years,
313 George St. & 224 Pitt St.,
SYDNEY.
1j.23.
Keep hopping and hoping if you wish
to succeed — think of
SCHUTE,
BELL&Cua.
if you have
Wool & Skins
to Sell.
Personal Attention.
Offices: 44 Bridge Street, Sydney.
"I
Whv Bald So Young!
Cuticura Will Help You
To prevent loss of hair. Dandruff,
usually the cause of premature
baldness, may be easily removed
by regular shampoos with Cuticura
Soap, preceded by touches of Cuti-
cura Ointment. This treatment
keeps the scalp clean and healthy
and promotes hair growth.
Soap Is., Talcum 15.3 d., Ointment Is.and
2s. For sample Soap and Ointment ad-
dress: “R.Towns & Co., Sydnev, N.S. W.”
Cuticura Shaving Stick Is. 6d.
“THE WOMAN’S MIRROR.”
PRICE 3d.
Contains everything a woman needs to know.
VARIOUS VERSE
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Credo.
The blue sky is my saviour,
The dark sea is my god,
The blown grass is my anchor—
A beauty-sheeted anchor —
My knees are on the sod!
Now when I come to dying,
Be this my crucifix ;
A cross of green and silver,
Grass stems and dew-wove silver,
And budding almond-sticks !
VICTORIA.
MYRA MORRIS.
The Wind in the Tree.
The grass arose and sang to God
A simple song;
And the loud wind blowing over the sod
Set the tune wrong.
The tree, with stark boughs reaching far,
Caught the tangled strain
And tossed it up to a sighing star
That sang it again.
Grass and star made a song to God
Singing together,
While the wind went buffeting tree and sod
In the night weather.
The wind was the wind of world's loss
Blowing low and high ;
And the tree was life’s great cross
With arms against the sky.
Mine was the song of the low grass
E’er the wind blew ;
Yours the song of a star to pass
The wide night through.
It: was a tangled strain I could sing
Over the sod ;
But it came to you on a night of spring
Praising God.
Grass and star made a song together
With a tree between,
That God might know in the night weather
What his souls mean.
Two and two did He make the song
Of woman and man ;
And the wind was right that seemed wrong
Since the world began.
N.S.W.
DAVID MCKEE WRIGHT.
Father-men.
To helpless stand with fear-gripped heart
while on her beats down the storm,
When he would gi’e his naked soul to stand
’twixt her and harm!
To watch the tortured, anguished hours go
crawlin’, crawlin’ by ;
To offer the Almighty thanks for that first
shrill bairnie’s cry !
And then !
To step from gloom, and dread of doom, to
Hope’s own radiant hue,
To kneel within that chamber dim beside the
blessed two —
’Tis so ye ken for father-men the wide
wor-r-rld through!
To play the game o’ do-without, to scrape,
an’ save, an’ pare-—-
For maist who offer hostages must walk
wi’ thrift an’ care,
Must do the work o’ Martha’s sons in cold
or scorching heat.
An’ ablins wend their homeward way with
aching heads and feet.
But then !
That hard-won home’s a royal throne shared
by a consort true;
Their subjects all are sweet an’ small, an’
verra loving too !
’Tis so ye ken for father-men the wide
wor-r-rld through !
To do wi’out that motor-car to gi’e the
bairns a chance
An’ see them ruffle wi’ the best at college,
school and dance.
To greet when they are greeting at hurts to
heart or pride,
To agonise in secret prayer o’er all their
steps aside!
But when
There comes at length the ebbing strength
which waits for me and you,
’Twixt us and harm the shielding arm of sons
and daughters true —
’Tis so ye ken for father-men the wide
wor-r-rld through.
VICTORIA.
A. M. M.
Dreams.
Ask of the dead, in the belief that they
Have ears, and still may hear what mortals
say;
Or ask of yourself when the life is low,
Where are the dreams they had who had to
go.
Ah ! but the dead no answer may return,
Wherever they abide and laugh or yearn ;
And you still, too, no answer may receive
From yourself, dear, whatever you believe.
All is as dust and ashes in the air,
The dreams that they have had blown every-
where ;
And love’s, too, but a dream, it may be, when
All that we here have found is lost again.
N.S.W.
R. CRAWFORD.
Side by Side.
On the road to Burrawang
In the days of long ago,
When the morning thrushes sang
Fine it was to riding go;
As our horses’ lioof-strokes rang
Through the dewy upland air,
On the road to Burrawang,
Free of rein, ’twas good to fare.
As we cantered up and down
Over hollow, over bill,
Free from turmoil, free from town,
Eyes aglow and r eins atlirill,
Goblet never held a wine
Of a lustre half so rare
As the golden morning-sliine
Pouring ’round us everywhere.
Just as if to show the world
Had grown conscious it was day,
Here and there blue smoke up curled
From some farmhouse far away:
Just as if to greet tli e morn,
Magpies round about us sang
In the barley, in the corn,
By the road to Burrawang.
Stretching far on either hand
As we journeyed on and on
Never was there greener land
Than the land we looked upon.
Never yet did horsemen ride
Under skies of cloudless blue
Through a fairer countryside
Than the country we rode through.
As the day awoke to life
Oft it happened, riding thus,
That a farmer or his wife
From their doorway waved to us,
Waved their bands or silence broke
With a greeting, kind and sweet,
In the way that country-folk
Have with those they chance to meet.
Best of all days was that day,
That shall long remembered be,
When a girl with eyes of grey
Such as one may seldom see—•
White of throat with hair of silk
Brown and tressed, and tied with pink—
With a smile as kind as milk
Gave us milk, new milk, to drink.
Morning comes; but never come
Hours like those we one time knew —
Hours beneath tall oak and gum,
Hours of sunshine, hours of dew —
When we let the world go hang,
Let whatever would betide,
On the road to Burrawang
Riding, side by side !
N.S.W.
RODERIC QUINN.
The Young Wife.
I used to think there was no loneliness
Like that of lying still within the dark.
And hearing through the whimpering wind's
distress
A distant farm-yard dog begin to bark,
Till all the night
Was rent in searing shreds,
And my own heart was torn w 7 ith foolish
fright.
I used to stand and watch the rocking boughs
Of moon-lit apple-trees, against the sky,
Down by the shed, where the tired milking-
cows
Made shapeless blurs of .ink; and wonder
why
I felt alone,
With that dark loneliness
That took my very heart-beats for its own.
But now, as I brood here, and watch you sit,
Away from me, beside the scattered coals.
Your eyes half-shut, your precious pipe all
lit.
Your thoughts of men’s hard things, of dis-
tant goals,
And farming lore,
I feel I did not know
Just what was meant by loneliness before.
victoria.
MYRA MORRIS.
The Silent Gun.
The gun aloof among the trees
Looks out across the pleasant park.
Far other scenes it knew than these,
Where sombre pines loom through the dark,
And pentstemons and roses grow
Beside it in a fragrant row.
It stands alone, the open throat
Empty of death. Its iron heart,
Untouched by flowers or scents that float,
Broods on grim memories, apart.
Reminder of dark days that were,
It scorns, defies the peaceful air.
Tall elms and oaks in golden-brown,
Slim poplars in your autumn dress.
Let fall your leaves and shower them down
To hide the gun’s stark dreadfulness!
O night of stars, draw closer yet;
Conceal, and help us to forget!
VICTORIA.
ETHEL MARTYR.


cO.
v.
n
mghouse
W 0 «&♦
.SV,
M
mm
j)
=5) '
the outstanding
name in the history
of electricity
Look at a motor-car and you think of the ability of Ford.
Hear the phonograph and you realise the genius of Edison.
Listen in to the wireless and you realise all that Marconi
has given the world. When we press a tiny button and
flood a room with light we think of Westinghouse, for
the genius of Westinghouse has made possible the mar-
vellous progress of Electricity.
The dwellers of the city every day travel in absolute
safety in trams and trains because of the Westinghouse
Brake. Those who live in the country districts are enabled
to enjoy city comforts, are in a position to employ electri-
cal servants, because of the highly-efficient Westinghouse
Farm Light and Power Plant.
There is no greater argument in favor of the Westinghouse
Plant than this world-wide recognition granted to the
name Westinghouse. As one vitally interested in the use
of Electricity on the farm, you must know more of the
efficiency, the economy, and the ease of operation of the
Westinghouse Plant.
The name Westinghoure is a
guarantee that the plant is
built to give long and econo-
mical service. It is extremely
easy to operate. It starts at
the touch of a lever, and stops
itself automatically when the
battery is sufficiently charged.
Above all, it operates economi-
cally. Repeated tests have
proved that one gallon of
kerosene used in the Westing-
-1 house Plant generates three
times the candle-power that it
does used in the most efficient
kerosene lamp.
The Westinghouse Agent in
your State will be pleased to
send you all particulars.
Westinghouse
farm light & Power plant
WESTINGHOUSE DISTRIBUTORS:—
ELECTRIC HOME LIGHTING, LTD., 143 Castlereagh Street, M. J. BATEMAN, LTD., 34 Milligan Street, Perth.
Sydney.
DOMESTIC ENGINEERS & PLUMBERS’ SUPPLIES CO W. R. CARPENTER & CO., LTD., 16 O’Connell Street, Sydney;
PTY., LTD., 383 Latrobe Street, Melbourne, Victoria.
ELPHINSTONES, LIMITED, Adelaide Street, Brisbane,
Queensland.
MECHANICAL SUPPLIES, LIMITED, 79 Grenfell
Street, Adelaide, S.A.
w
and at Rabaul, New Guinea (South Sea Island
Distributor).
W. A. CROWI.E, LTD., 161 Castlereagh Street, Sydney
(Factory Distributor).


9
»:
41
*««■
H
s
■
M
'
?■ i
*
r • • ..
.


Vol. 48—No. 2469.
June 9, 1927.
The Bulletin
CAM Voo SPARE SIXPENCE ? "
Late ag,wn i tlompSon '.
* Ta-K-S n\y seat, OLD DEAR "
S>£E'HCU HIM SAPS'-'/ •
Anvthinc, in the 2 v
CHKNCiHC! C,OA<SD.
GIRLS' WEEK.
"Sydney is celebrating ‘Girls’ Week’ (June 7-14). So far as money is concerned, the main object is to raise £15.000 wherewith to buy the working girls of Sydney
sports and recreation grounds of their very own.”


The Bulletin
THE NATIONAL AUSTRALIAN NEWSPAPER
"Australia for the White Man."
Printed and published by William Maoleod, oi
Musgrave and McLeod Streets, Mosman, for iUE
Bulletin Newspaper Co., Ltd., at the Office of the
Co., 214 George Street, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia.
Melbourne Office : 154-162 Flinders Street.
London Office: No. 1 Wardour Street (near Picca-
dilly Circus), W.l.
PUBLISHED ONCE A WEEK.
TERMS TO SUBSCRIBERS
(In Advance only). f
Posted to any address in Australasia, weekly .
12 months, £1 J/s.; 6 months, 12s. fid.; 3 month*,
To any address Ovekseas: 12 months, x> 1 10s.; o
months, 15s. (id.; 3 months, Bs.
Cheques, drafts, etc., which should he crossed, ana,
all Business Communications to be addressed to the
Manager.
Special Notice.
Alt correspondence to be addressed to Box 2521 8.8.,
G.P.0., Sydney. ~ . .
Insufficiently stamped letters are liable to oe
The 'contents of this paper are copyright by the
publishers. The right to reproduce or translate any
part of the contents of this number is hereby expressly
reserved by the publishers.
The editor will carefully read and, where pi actic-
able, acknowledge in the “Correspondence column
all contributions submitted, whether m the form of
Political. Social or other Articles, Verse, Short lutes
or Sketches (those dealing with Australian subjects
and not exceeding two columns in length, or, say,
3000 words, are specially acceptable), / aragraphs,
Letters or Newspaper Clippings. All communications
will be regarded as strictly confidential.
Tun Bulletin will return all unsuitable MS. uhen
the address is specified and stamps are enclosed. But
no MS. will be returned or preserved unless these
conditions are observed. When MS. is forwarded
without stamps for return it will be understood that
the copy is to be destroyed if not acceptable. I er-
sonal applications for return of MS. cannot receive
attention. Further. The Bulletin desires those
sending MS. to distinctly understand that it is not
responsible for the preservation or transmission of MS.
To Amateurs in Black and White. *
Anyone supplying to The Bulletin original
humorous or other topical drawings in line or wash,
of sufficient merit and interest and adapted for
direct reproduction, or any interesting photograph
illustrative of a current event will be paid for same
on acceptance. Any picture containing a good idea
but unfitted for direct reproduction —1.e., any pictuie
which has to be re-drawn —will be paid for as a
suggestion only. The conditions under which such
artistic contributions will be received are those
applying to M.S.
To Travellers Abroad.
“The Bulletin’s” representative in is
X,. St. C. Grondona, No. 1 Wardour Street
(near Piccadilly Circus), W.l. Copies of
“The Bulletin” can be obtained from him or
tile bookstall in the Main Hall at Australia
House. Also from' Messrs. Gordon and Gotch, io-
-79 barring don Street, London, E.C.lj.; and It . Haw-
son and Sons, Cannon Mouse, Breams Buildings,
London, E.C.1,. ; E. T. Hole, Uolertli Satire Ser-
vice, Fleet Street, London E.C.; ‘ Ihe British
Australian and New Zealander,’’ iU-17 Australia
House, Strand, London, W.C.2; F. Algar, i>B Grace-
church Street, London, E.C.B.
South Africa. —The Central A ews Agency, ape-
town, Durban and Johannesburg; Dawson and Son,
Capetown and Johannesburg; Havana House, Durban;
Rhodesia News Agency. Salisbury; Benom i.eivs
Agency, Benoni; Handel House, Kimberley; ana
° Canada. — G. S. Forsyth and Co., W Hastings
Street, Vancouver, B.C.
US. A. — Chicago: J. Roland hay Co., 161 hast
Erie Street, N. Michigan Boulevarde: Post Office
News Co., 33 West Monroe Street, Chicago. New
York: Brentano’s, sth Avenue and 21th Street, hew
York City; Schultz News Agency. S.E. Corner 6th
Avenue and l/2nd Street, New York City; Hotaling s
News Agency, 203 West I,lst Street, New York City.
Washington: Liberty News Co., Seattle, Washington ;
Wheatley News Co., 101, Market Street, San Francisco;
Wallace, The New Orleans News Man, 100 Royal
Street, New Orleans, La. ; The Wide World hews Stand,
51U South Main Street, Los Angeles, Cal.
Egypt — Jacques. Horn and Co., the Colonial
Book and Neius Stores. Port Said, Egypt. _
llono Kong. —Brewer and Co., 6.96 Pedder Street,
Ilony Kong. ~ , , ~ ,
China. —Brewer and Co., 31 Nanking Road.
Shanghai, China.
Penang, F.M.S. — IC. Abdul Rahman, Bookstall,
Eastern and Oriental Hotel.
Ceylon. T. L. De Silva, 39 Chatham Street,
Colombo. . .
Papua. —Whitten Bros.. Samurai and Port Moresby.
Fiji.— A. Barker. Suva: Harry Gardiner. Metropole
Hairdressing Saloon, Suva.
Overseas Advertising Representatives.
London.— L. St. C. Grondona. No. 1 Wardour
Street (near Piccadilly Circus), W. 1.; Gordon and
Gotch 75-19 Farringdon Street. London, E.C.lj.
U.S.A. — J. Roland Kay Co., 161 East Erie Street,
N. Michigan Boulevarde, Chicago.
Postage Kates.
Single cojries <of The Bulletin (registered as a
newspaper): — Commonwealth, New Zealand and Fiji;
lOoz . fd. United Kingdom: l,oz. to 10oz., fid.; each
additional 1,0 z.. Id. All Sea Route: 160 z.. lid,
British Possessions and U.S.A.: Jjoz. or part thereof,
Id. Elsewhere. 20z., Id.
&e'^xxllelz/7i.
THURSDAY, JUNE 9, 1927.
[For all articles and paragraphs in this issue
which require a signature under the Commonwealth
Electoral Law, S. H. Prior, J. E. Webb and James
Edmond, all of 214 George-street, Sydney, hold
themselves responsible.]
A FAIR SPIN FOR DEMOCRACY.
In the days when there were only two
parties in politics and when all the people
who really mattered knew that, whether
Lord Kidthump or the highly-connected
young Mr. Bingi.ey-Smythe led the Gov-
ernment, the family interests would be well
looked after, the game of ins and outs was
a fairly simple one. There was a great
display of sound and fury on the surface
and a great deal of complacence under-
neath. But ever since Lord Russell intro-
duced into Blighty the revolutionary notion
that the only safe plan is to base govern-
ment on the consent of the quite common
people who make up the bulk of a nation,
the job of governing has got complicated.
At one time it was enough to let the heads
of departments go on doing their job and
manufacture crushing replies to questions.
Nowadays a Government is expected not
only to nominally control departments, but
to provide them with a new policy every
year or so. and, in short, to do something
about everything. Since everybody wants
something and there is no limit to the
things that a Government might be ex-
pected to do, the men who make the laws
for a constitutional monarchy or a republic
would have a very hard time were it not
for the fact that quite a number of things
have been invented by the politicians of
the last one hundred years to keep
Democracy from functioning.
But despite those inventions—selection of
candidates by the party machine is the
chief of them—parties increase and multi-
ply, especially in sparsely-populated con-
tinents like Australia, where the folk of one
end live under entirely different conditions
from those of the other end and there are
all manner of grades of differentiation in
between. In the Federal sphere, where the
things that can be argued about have their
limitations, and where geographically broad
areas return a lot of the members, three
parties are clamoring—two in coalition and
the other in opposition. In N.S.W. to-day
there are at least four parties—the two
factions of Labor, a Nationalist section that
doesn’t look any too stable, and a Country
party that in some matters is half-Labor
and half-Nationalist. In Victoria, at the
latest estimate, there are seven parties, and
other States are similarly mixed in their
political affiliations. Skirmishing on the
outskirts are the Independents, some merely
soldiers of fortune, some representatives of
a national sentiment or rollers of a district
log. The divisions are deplored by folk
who learned their politics in the old school.
They would like the country neatly divided
into Labor and anti-Labor, or Imperialists
and anti-imperialists, or Agrarians and anti-
Agrarians, or Freetraders and Protectionists,
or Liberals and Conservatives. But the
country won’t divide like that. There arc
Laborites with Imperial tendencies, Conser-
vatives who are prepared to back short-cuts
to the Labor millennium, Liberals who
favor the first Napoleon’s whiff of grape-
shot as the best cure for popular discon-
tents, Agrarians who favor a whopping big
tariff on imported goods, and Freetraders
and Protectionists who outside the fiscal
issue hate the politics of their brother
Freetraders or Protectionists like the very
Devil.
* * :!: *
Attempts to simplify the situation have
failed, and are likely to fail worse in future.
Attempts to take the matter out of the
hands of the constituencies, and to arrange
them to suit the ideas of the mandarins
who make a living out of deciding who
shall and who shall not be elected, are more
and more resented. There are various
means of ensuring that the electorate shall
have a fair spin at the polls, and Australia
has already tried a few of them. Propor-
tional representation, advertised to cure all
the ills the body politic is heir to, is very
attractive, but it doesn’t provide for by-
election.s—the one screw that can be turned
upon a Ministry when it forgets that it re-
presents the people. Preferential voting is
a more workmanlike expedient. It at least
ensures that the majority of voters shall
determine the majority in Parliament. The
marking of preferences ought, of course,
to be made compulsory—that is the essen-
tial of a worth-while vote, and the person
without sufficient intelligence to mark pre-
ferences on the ballot-paper can’t grumble
if the contribution isn’t accepted. To com-
pel people to vote if they don’t want to
is. on the other hand, simply foolish. The
idea probably had its birth in the mind
of a politician who compared the number
of his declared supporters before and after
the election. Then there are the Initiative,
the Referendum and the Recall. All three
are safeguards against a Parliamentary
majority that has got out of touch with
the people it is supposed to represent, not
to be used, or likely to be used, in ordinary
times, but handy items of a Constitution.
* Sfc H* ❖
In Australia to-dav the pressing need is
to discover in these or some other inven-
tions a means of asserting the rights of
the people—a plan for securing more power
to the electorate and less to the elected
representatives. Recent events in N. S.
Wales, the government of which, at the
moment, reposes in the hands of a gentle-
man who represents the choice of a minority
section of a minority party, but who never-
theless has power to commit the State to
almost anything, and has shown that he
is not very particular as to what he com-
mits it to, serve to point the moral.
UNIONISM AND DAY LA BOH —BOTH
IN PERIL.
The advent of the Hogan Government in
Victoria encouraged the Railways Union to
a precipitate and rather humorless proceed-
ing. It demanded prompt action to defeat
the machinations of the capitalistic class,
otherwise the Bruce-Page Ministry, in pay-
ing the expenses of an industrial commis-
sion to look into United States methods,
and find out why that country is a rich
money-lender and an exporter of manufac-
tured goods, while Australia is a persistent
borrower and an importer of almost every-
thing. To that end it ordered that a picked
delegation of unionists should be sent
abroad—
“Special attention to be given to the ques-
tion of payment by results, piece work, bonus
work and select staffing, with a view to
the maintenance of organised unionism and
the existing day-labor system, both of which
are at present in grave peril.”
In other words, the delegation is to bring
back a report that the Australian way of
doing things is the best and can’t be im-
proved on save by making it worse, or else
stand the consequences. By way of a hint
the union members of the present travelling
commission have been “declared black” in
certain quarters on the bare suspicion that
they may be taking an unbiased view of
the situation.
In one respect the meeting which passed
the resolution demanding a cut-and-dried
report was strictly and unusually accurate.
The variety of compulsory unionism which
includes compulsory contributions to Labor
or Communist papers, and in support of
Labor-Communist candidates, and in aid
of illegal strikes, is in grave peril here just
as it is in the British Isles. It is a tyranny
which can’t last. And the day-labor system
as practised nowadays in Australia is in
mortal peril. Its aim is less production for
more pay, and for want of sufficient pro-
duction to meet expenses the country de-
pends on foreign loans to an amazing extent.
The extent increases on the compound-
interest principle. When the loans fail,
and the imports fail in consequence, the
necessity for producing much more in order
to lead even a plain existence will make
hay of a heap of day-labor theories. All the
country’s worst and mostly imported enemies
will propose revolution, with themselves as the
highly-paid leaders, as an alternative to
production; but even if revolution comes
the masses will only have to work harder,
or starve harder, or both, after it is over.
It is reckoned by the best available
authority we have—that is to say, the man
who makes the monumental yearly volume
of statistics—that the Commonwealth pro-
duced less per inhabitant in 1924-25 than
in 1911. That is arrived at by taking
every kind of product into account and
valuing the lot at the prices which ruled in
1911. The amount and the efficiency of
the machinery available to help production
increased wonderfully, but the go-slow
policy, embodied in “organised unionism
and the existing day-labor system,” more
than counterbalanced the results. The num-
ber of things which are regarded as essen-
tials grew very considerably, and as local
production decreased it was natural for im-
ports to grow, and for the importer’s bill
to grow at the same time. Foreign and
other liabilities, both of the war and peace
variety, expanded on a heroic scale; and
as production, the only thing to meet liabili-
ties with, had a drift in the opposite direc-
tion, the gap was filled with more loans.
Wages rose too, but they didn’t rise so fast
as prices till 1920, for which situation lack
of output was doubtless to blame. Then
the insane borrowing years began, and they
rose faster than prices. Each £lOO of the
wages of 1911, measured by what it would
purchase (the “effective wage” as it is
called), became £ll2 10s. in 1922, and slowly
got down to £lOB 2*. in 1925, where avail-
able figures leave off.
:J: * * ❖
The sort of year which Australia some-
times had before Labor bosses were so
ignorant and Red and rude and riotous was
1911. Then the community was satisfied
with some £67,000,000 worth of imports, and
it exported enough to pay for them, to
cover interest ancl all other external liabili-
ties, and to reduce its foreign debt by
almost £3,000.000. The sort of year which
it is liable to have now was typified by
1923-24, when it luxuriated in £141.000.000
worth of imports, when it didn’t send away
enough surplus products to pay for them,
let alone meeting other liabilities, and when
it added over £28,000,000 to its external
debt. That wasn’t even a record bad year
in the foreign-loan trade, for £42 200 000 of
new external liability was negotiated in
1921-22. The gain in the way of effective
wage, when 1925 is compared with 1911, is thus
very small considering the price at which
it has been and is being purchased. And
in the process the Australian has become
about the most ruled and regulated white
toiler in existence, and he has become hag-
ridden by imported revolutionaries, and has
gained a chronic grievance or grouch or
sense of imaginary wrong, and a house-
famine. When the money-lender is un-
able or afraid to keep the loan boom going,
“organised unionism” of the present pattern
and “the existing day-labor system” will
both be in “grave peril,” indeed.
WOMAN IN COMMAND.
Civilisation has not arrived! Our almost
illimitable powers, when not left latent,
have been woefully misapplied. If man
willed he could create a real civilisation in
little more than a decade. Man has not,
so willed; all he has created is a cultivated
savagery. Beneath a veneer our civilisation
is a putrid thing; man has had no con-
ception of a civilisation except one founded
on Force. In every phase of the progress
of which he boasts. Force incessant and
intense is paramount. Whilst he has pro-
fessed a religion that has the absolute nega-
tion of Force as keystone, he has used it
to fill the world with clash and clamor.
Naturally, man has had his reactions, when
he would become maudlin and talk of
ploughshares and swords and peace; but
they have been very temporary affairs, these
reactions, and woman, grown weaiy, is de-
termined, even though the determination is
largely sub-conscious, to bring this civilisa-
tion of Force to an end. She would much
rather have the help and co-operation of
man, but since that appears to be hopeless
she will build by herself.
Has man, then, had his day as com-
mander? There are numerous signs that
he has. If we accept the evolutionary
theory we perceive that each wave carries
us higher and further; and while man
appears to be marking time, woman is leap-
ing ahead. Primitive woman, by a strange,
deep-rooted capacity for devotion, unselfish-
ness and self-sacrifice, softened strife, cher-
ished the helpless, developed courage to
protect her young and planted the seed o!
mutual aid; and from that seed sprang the
family, the tribe, the State. We may fairlv
claim, then, that hers was the first and
greatest contribution to what has developed
into the social culture of to-day.
History shows several periods when
woman was supreme; it was a necessary
part of her development that she became
enslaved by man. This period is the blackest
in man’s history. The world-war was the
grand finale that galvanised woman into
thought and activity; it has speeded up
her evolution by a century or more. Her
most insistent question was: “Why, after
all the centuries of social progress man
boasts of, does he still interpret himself in
terms of destruction and bloodshed?” And
he called on her for almost unimaginable
sacrifice in paying the price for his folly.
She paid; but she remembers.
Has woman ever done aught to justify
the belief that she will again take com-
mand? The part she took in social service
and industrial work during the war was
on a larger scale what she had been
doing for centuries; in addition she did
many new things side by side with, and
just as well as, man. But men have
short memories and would already forget
or deny her help in those years when his
policy of Force well-nigh destroyed us. The
woman, remembering, will decree that war
and slaughter shall be no more. She will
command the avenues of social guidance,
she will adjust and bring to an infinitely
higher standard the life and labor of her
kind. Confusion and struggle in plenty are
ahead of her. but she moves swiftly and
carries a torch of cleansing flame. In the
history of every race we can trace a great
fear and a reverence for woman; in all
mythology the woman spirit predominates.
Does this mean nothing? She has been
told that she lacks genius. We are too
used to interpret genius only in forms of
literature, art and so on. May not the
genius of woman be a very different form
and yet one more necessary to race-
progress? When she is in command her
organising powers are going to be utilised.
Work will be ennobled and democratised.
Teaching will receive stimulus and new
life. Married women will not be debarred
from carrying on the social work they are
fitted for. In medicine woman will be the
custodian of health in school and home;
there will be clinics for the teaching of
sex hygiene. Her fine sensitiveness will
make her a power in the courts of justice;
she will be on judicial bench and in jury-
boxes; she will sit in cases of divorce, of
juvenile crime and of crimes against women
and children. Man is hopelessly inadequate
in dealing with these matters. She will
protect and help women and children in
industry. She will make herself the keeper
of the race.
The destroyer man will give way to
woman the healer. “Only from the mar-
riage of clear thought and passionate feel-
ing shall come the actual achievement of
the new social order,” wrote a great woman,
and in the consciousness of woman is this
marriage taking place. Man is sceptical and
contemptuous of this great evolution or
revolution which is taking place; incredu-
lously he asks: “Is it possible that woman
who has been our inferior for so long can
become an instrument of power?” Kidd
says: “All the great developments have
arisen in the same way. They were based
on qualities previously developed in obscur-
ity and in conditions of apparent inferiority.
But as soon as the conditions of the new
era were assembled in the world, the quali-
ties which had hitherto appeared inferior
were ready to assume the function which
was to carry the world into an entirely new
era of progress.”
WINIFRED HAMILTON.
PLAIN ENGLISH.
Earle Page’s Opportunity.
For the financial year 1926-27 Common-
wealth Treasurer Earle Page expected to
set £40.500,000 from customs and excise.
He has already received £40.264,500, and
there is another month to go, so his esti-
mate will be exceeded by £3.000.000 or more.
Something of the sort has happened every
year since he became Treasurer, and it has
led to his being deluged with comment and
advice. In reply he has plaintively pointed
out that the customs receipts are swelled
by the craze for buying imported motor-
cars, pianos, pianolas, gramophones, radio
sets, and even wearing apparel, on the time-
payment system; by the irrational prefer-
ence for foreign foodstuffs, even in the case


of articles which Australia exports; and,
above all, by the State Governments’ over-
seas borrowings, which find visible expres-
sion in floods of dutiable goods. Dr.
Page protests, fairly enough, that neither
he nor any other Federal Treasurer,
preparing- his Budget speech in the first or
second month of the financial year, can
foretell the extent to which these factors
will operate for the 12 months.
Much of what passes for customs revenue
is loan-money in disguise. When State
Governments buy machinery, etc., abroad
the amount of the import duty levied by
die Commonwealth is added to the loan.
Ignoring such transactions, Freetrade editors
assert that Page’s Government is rolling in
money “taken from the pockets of the
people,” and order it to return the alleged
excess by lowering import duties and
income-tax rates —sometimes they suggest
that the Commonwealth Government,
which has the Great War to pay for (in-
terest on war loans came to £18,159,700 last
year and pensions to £7,343,608), should
abandon taxation of incomes to the States.
The Bulletin's idea is that the case calls
for higher import duties, especially on
articles which Australia produces in abun-
dance, for Commonwealth control of State
borrowing, and for the Federalising of
income-taxation, the Commonwealth com-
pensating the States by taking over an
agreed-upon proportion of their debts. Two
of these measures, rightly handled, would
do away with the inflation of customs re-
ceipts, which gives an appearance of pros-
perity to Australian Government finance at
the expense of Australian industry. There
might then be no more or less fictitious
surpluses to distribute, but there would be
a real distribution of wealth among Aus-
tralian farmers and manufacturers and
workmen, and so among the whole people.
And the other measure would pave the w T ay
to a general and genuine lightening of the
income-tax burden.
To abandon the Commonwealth income-
tax to the States, whose interest bills on
unproductive debt are mounting every
month, in the expectation that the tax-
payers would be benefited thereby would
be an act of supreme folly. Sooner or later
the State Governments would add the Com-
monwealth rates to their own (S. Aus. has
already done this to the extent of the last
Commonwealth remissions), so the payers
of income-tax would be no better off, while
the Commonwealth Government might be
reduced to monkeying with the national
fiscal policy in order to get the wherewithal
for war pensions and interest and sinking
fund. In Federalisation of the income-tax,
Commonwealth control of future borrowing
(with the determination to reduce it to the
lowest possible limit), and Commonwealth
assumption of as many of the State debts
as can be handled, lies the income-taxpayer’s
only hope of real and lasting relief.
And the abolition of the -per capita
arrangement places Treasurer Page in a
position to impose these reforms on the
State Governments if they should be re-
luctant to accept them.
4
The Rush of Arbitration.
A new batch of statistics shows that during
1926 boards and courts and things kept
making awards at a great rate. In the
aggregate they ordered that 1,169,810
people were to receive £80,767 per week
more pay. It was good going, but not so
good as that of 1925, when 1,246,829 people
got £127,482 per week extra wages on paper.
Unfortunately, no provision was made, or is
ever made, for producing more as well as be-
ing paid more, so the natural result was
to put up prices a little —not, of course, the
price of what the country exports, that being
beyond regulation, but the price of what it
uses.
If it costs more to supply both goods for
export and for local consumption, the local
consumption, or rather the local consumer,
has to pay for both. So the statistical
man dug into a handy and available source
of information, which was the average cost
of groceries, food and housing (four- or five-
room variety of housing) in the six State
capitals, and reported that the bill had gone
up in both years. It went up a little more
in 1925 than in 1926, perhaps because there
were more awards. What cost £7 os. Bd. in
1924 cost £7 4s. sd, next year and £7 7s. Bd.
in 1926. Most probably the increase in the
cost of living beat the increase in wages
by a length or so, for occasional reductions
in working hours are another disturbing
influence. It is cabled that the International
Labor Conference at Geneva has created
a wage-fixing committee which is lost in
admiration at the Australian way of doing
things. But the committee probably only
knew what the Australian delegates told it.
And it is fairly certain that they didn’t
mention how much of the Australian wage
bill is paid out of loans, or explain that a
country such as Italy would have to find
someone to trust it with about £170,000,000
a year, mostly foreign money, before it
could razzle like us.
The tremendously elaborate wage-fixing
apparatus of the country gives much im-
portance to officials and orators, who are
always in a perspiration and trying to justify
their salaries by securing higher pay for
somebody, but the benefit to the community
becomes increasingly dubious. This is
quoted as the only country with statistics
to go upon in which the cost of living
has gone up almost continuously since the
last year of the war; in fact, it has gone-up
at a much greater pace during the years of
peace and vigorous industrial strife than
during the period of military shindy and
comparative (only comparative) industrial
calm. Certainly the average citizen has
more paper money to his credit in the sav-
ings bank than he had before the war, but
whether, he has more food and clothes and
house room to his credit is another matter.
He certainly seems to have more strike
losses to his debit. In pre-arbitration days
the irritated toiler only struck against the
boss. Now he strikes against the boss first
and the award afterwards.
4
Tasmania and Its Farmers.
Galvanised into activity by the remarks
of Commonwealth experts Dr. G. F.
Finlay and W. J. Rose on the deplorable
condition of Tasmanian agriculture, both
Houses of the Speck have agreed to the
Government’s proposal to spend at least
£lB,OOO of Treasurer Lyons's forecasted sur-'
plus of £25,000 to educate and organise the
man on the land for better production and
marketing of spuds, butter, fat lambs,
apples, swine, cereals, etc. The local Depart-
ment of Agriculture, working in close
co-operation with the Gepp (Federal) Com-
mission and the Council for Scientific and
Industrial Research, is to extend its func-
tions to embrace research activities in
connection with animal husbandry, dairy,
veterinary and general science, pasture im-
provement, soil fertility, economic breeding,
crop rotation, etc. Also the State is to be
divided into six districts, with a highly-
trained organiser in charge of each. Prime
Minister Bruce has intimated that the
proposed expenditure of approximately
£lB,OOO a year on this valiant attempt to
push a bit of commonsense and co-operative
method into the cocky community will be
regarded as “justifiable expenditure” when
the present Commonwealth grant of
£360,000 comes up for review in 1928.
It looks, then, as though the distraught
Speck is to be given a hope, during the
next five years, of abolishing the scrub-
bulls which are mongrelising its dairy herds,
shifting some appreciable tons of the bucolic
ignorance and conservatism which at pre-
sent encumber the farmlands, and of chas-
ing most of her lop-eared and slab-sided
stud-swine down a steep place. The only
doubts expressed as to the wisdom of the
Labor Government’s proposals came from
big land-holder Norman Cameron, who held
that cheap manure would help the farmers
more than instruction and organisation
Two or three other members of the Opposi-
tion who, curiously enough, claim to speci-
ally represent the primary producers
grumbled in their beards at the suddenness
with which Lyons's “revolutionary” project
had been sprung on them. Ex-Premier
Walter Lee pleaded the notorious unteach-
ableness of many of the farmers as a reason
for delaying the measure “until the per-
sons chiefly affected by the bill could be
consulted by their Parliamentary repre-
sentatives.” Premier Lyons, who is an
adept at the soft answer which turns away
Opposition wrath, affected to take the
farmer-knight’s quaint observation as a joke
(which perhaps it was), and in the end the
bill was passed with only the harsh “No”
of the irreconcilable Norman Cameron in
dissent in the Assembly, and without any
dissent whatever in the Leg. Council.
It is generally conceded that, whatever
the result of this experiment in persuading
the Tasmanian land-worker to adopt scien-
tific and co-operative methods of helping
himself, the Labor Government of this
Small Sister deserves three cheers for trying
to do something more useful than borrowing
and squabbling.
Second Mortgages.
It is not only the suburban home-builder
who feels the weight of the second mort-
gage; the farmer suffers too.
During recent years thousands of N.S.W.
acres have been subdivided and sold under
Section 64 of the Savings Bank Act. The
bank’s advance, limited to £3OOO per farm, is
rarely the price at which the farms are
sold; the owners add anything up to £l2OO,
and in this lies the trouble. At such a
price a subdivision interests but one type
of buyer, the farmer with a small amount
of capital; the exceptional terms are the
principal attraction. These terms, shoe-
string finance with a vengeance, secure to
the Savings Bank its advance by a 31-
years’ first mortgage; any sum in excess of
this advance is payable to the vendor,
usually by a deposit of £lOO and the bal-
ance by a second mortgage. Frequently
the mortgagor finds that the one bar to his
progress is the payment of the second-
mortgage instalments, and that, after all.
the bank’s valuation was more correct than
either the vendor’s or his own. A sale is
then his only escape. The bank mortgage
provides that certain specified improvements
shall be effected each year; and the farmer
drops, as a rule, the value of all such im-
provements, along with his cash deposit.
In these subdivisions the original owner
is, of course, on a great wicket: he receives
a big price for his land, and the settlement
is almost a cash one. Certainly he has to
wait five years for part of his money, but
this part is often pure bunce, and his
security is increasing yearly in soundness.
The remedy lies in the restriction of the
vendor’s price, in all subdivisions for which
certificates under Section 64 are granted, to
the amount of the bank valuation. The
sooner this remedy is applied the better
for the State. Many inexperienced men
will then be protected from their own folly,
and bona fide landseekers will be able to
buy land at its correct market value.
Fishing for £ s. d.
“Co-Sec”: One of the leading Australian
accountancy corporations has had company
prospectuses under discussion, and a moun-
tain of talk has produced a veritable mole-
hill of a resolution to the effect that no
member of the corporation should certify
to, or make a forecast of, the probable
profits of any new undertaking for pros-
pectus purposes. If this is an attempt to
put the Companies Act to rights, the result
is pretty poor, operating as it does to
deprive the public of a certain amount, if
not of protection, at any rate of guidance.
One imagines that the primary function of
such institutes would be the protection of
the public, but it would now appear that
this particular corporation is more con-
cerned with wet-nursing its members; and
one section of the public is deprived of
assistance it is entitled to expect. I refer
to those who may have genuine proposi-
tions to float. They must necessarily make
forecasts of probable profits, and generally
they submit them to well-known public
accountants, who almost invariably detect
errors or omissions. This prevents wholly
amateur statements from going before the
public.
If the institute responsible for this latest
ruling is really concerned about prospec-
tuses and wishes to stop some of the gaps
in the State Acts, why not attack the ques-
tion boldly instead of tinkering with it? A
far more useful purpose would be served
were the various institutes to appoint pros-
pectus committees from among their own
members, adding a couple of legal men of
standing and, according to the nature of
the business under discussion, technical and
business experts. The functions of such a
committee would be to scrutinise—for a fee,
of course—any prospectus submitted to it,
to verify statements therein, check revenue
and expenditure forecasts, and generally
exercise supervision over the document. The
committee would have to sit almost con-
tinuously to do this work, but, to avoid
that, various sections of the work could
be farmed out amongst the institute’s
members and others who would collect por-
tions of the fee for a written report. These
reports could be summarised by a capable
secretary and laid before the committee,
meeting, say, fortnightly, and a certificate
given—or withheld.
Were the adoption of this method to be-
come generally known, no prospectus that
had not passed the scrutiny of such a body
would stand a chance. The Stock Exchange
has a lengthy set of rules which piust be
complied with before a company’s shares
are listed, and in due course similar guiding
principles could be laid down by the various
Accountancy Institutes, embodying condi-
tions to be observed in the prospectus and
flotation agreements before a certificate is
given. A minimum subscription, for
example, could be insisted upon; amount
of brokerage and underwriting commission
could be limited, if necessary; and scores
of other matters could be dealt with in
closing the loopholes in the Companies
Acts.
The idea should commend itself if for
no other reason than because the fees, on
a sliding scale commensurate with the
amount of work to be done, would show
a profit to the institute and provide work
for its members.
— 4
The Art Connoisseur.
The art connoisseur is an amusing cuss,
though deserving of commiseration. He is
as farsighted as a wombat and as valiant
as a hare. He pays £70,000 for a dismal
Giotto or an indifferent Cimabue, whereas
his ancestral connoisseurs would have sooner
seen the artists starve than pay 50 shillings
for the same. He grudges 15 guineas for
an inspired performance by a rising young
man called Streeton, but when the same
person returns from Europe with musee
garlands thick upon him, the connoisseur
cheerfully hands over 1000 guineas for a
potboiler of far less intrinsic merit. He
rushes to an exhibition of by no means
outstanding European pictures, such as the
show that netted £l3OO in Melbourne re-
cently, and buys the lot. He is shocked
at Norman Lindsay until Norman Lindsay
commands international attention; then he
is prepared to pay almost anything for the
faultiest of Lindsay's drawings; and then
suddenly his interest and the price he is pre-
pared to give slump because an English
rival, probably suffering from gout, speaks
snappishly about a Lindsay show in Lon-
don. If he is an official connoisseur with
public money, such as the Felton Bequest,
in his pocket, he pays fancy prices for the
rubbish the charwoman collected from the
studio of a man who died a hundred years
ago; while when a local show is on he is
as hard to find as an Aberdeen Jew on a
button-day.
Here is a young man who is called a
Rising Artist. He is a house-painter by
trade and the support of his parents,- but
having a strong belief that he is possessed
of a spark of the divine fire, he obtained
the parents’ permission to suspend the
painting of houses at intervals in order to
paint Nature. By dint of working 18 hours
a day he periodically gets enough pictures
together to make an exhibition. An exhibi-
tion involves framing one’s pictures, hiring
a gallery and getting an attractive cata-
logue printed. The young genius pays bills
for £75 and sells three pictures for eight or
ten guineas apiece. Then his parents re-
mark that, unless he does better within
three months, he must go back to house-
painting or be regarded as an unfilial
creature.
It may be that this young man would be
of more use to his country painting weather-
board than pictures; but the difficulties he
has to contend with have less to do with
his intrinsic merits than with the fact that
his work bears neither a foreign hall-
mark nor the patina of extreme age. His
chief trouble, in short, is, to put it bluntly,
the low standard of education amongst
connoisseurs.
4
Our Place in the Spotlight.
“R.D.”: There has been a lot of excite-
ment in the papers about certain com-
ments said to have been made upon us by
an English lady connected with the brewing
industry, and, whether she said those things
or not, the whole matter was a storm in
a very small teacup. Why should we pre-
tend that the verdicts of oversea visitors
upon our society, our institutions, our
climates are uniformly favorable and en-
thusiastic? They are not, as everyone
who has travelled in an outgoing liner
knows. It is much commoner to hear
opinions like that of the ex-Governor,
quoted by Wilfrid Blunt in his diary,
who said he would not think of exiling
himself for another term among a people
who had neither art, literature nor manners,
and no appreciation of anything but
second-rate music. On the whole, there is
something more tonic in such rude remarks
than in the insincere guff so often handed
out by distinguished visitors.
A much more serious insult was directed
at Australia by Winston Churchill in
his recent war-book, when, in talking about
the collapse of the Fifth Army and the
saving of Amiens, he omitted all mention
of the A.1.F., except a casual sentence say-
ing that at a crucial moment the train
carrying the Australians was late! In that
book, covering the whole period of the
war, there is just one other reference to
Australia, and that perfunctory. Yet none
of the papers which have advertised the
book so widely and printed it in serial form
took any notice of this cavalier treatment
of our war-effort. Whether it is due to
Churchill's prejudice or his idea of pro-
portion is hard to say. Certainly he has
never looked with an affectionate eye upon
this country; and since he is a Minister
of the Crown, his attitude is more im-
portant than that of the Greville lady.
The truth is that the cable-columns of
our daily papers are so flooded with small,
meaningless references to Australia that
we labor under a false idea of our popu-
larity and the amount of attention we
attract in the world. At the London end
ingenious men dredge the morning papers
with one idea in their minds, and if an
aged brigadier at a banquet utters the
usual perfunctory phrases about the valor
of our troops, we are not spared them. Nor
are we spared detailed accounts of the
humblest successes of our countrymen on
the other side. This concentration of the
spotlight is inevitable and to a certain
degree necessary, but we ought not to be
deceived by it and rush round throwing
bricks when something goes wrong with its
manipulation.
\
Dear Bulletin, —The strongest objection
to Dr. Wunderlich's proposal (B. 12/5/’27)
is that it would, if adopted, increase the
proportion of persons of low intelligence exer-
cising the franchise. It is the shiftless and im -
provident, of dull intelligence and low moral
sense, who breed most rapidly and without
regard for consequences; yet the doctor pro-
poses that we should give a man a vote
for every child he has under a certain age.
In Europe the mentally-superior classes
average from two to four children, the medi-
ocre from four to six, the inferior from six to
seven. The very lowest classes of all,
feeble-minded defectives and the like, average
seven to eight children. Dr. Wunderlich's
plan, as it would give a greater voice in
national affairs to the mentally-lower orders,
would be a national disaster. It would
create one more deadly menace to civilisa-
tion. The proper action is to deny the
right to vote to all whose intelligence
quotas are less than the average quota of the
electors.—Yours, etc., Six and Eight.
—♦
The Supreme Court of the United States
has delivered a judgment of some interest
to Australian and Maoriland woolgrowers.
It has reversed a decision of the Court of
Customs Appeals which would have per-
mitted the duty-free entry of Australian.
M.L. and South American wool. In 1922 a
tariff of per lb. was imposed on wool
on a clean scoured basis, to foster American
sheep-growing. With the extra cost on im-
ported wool, the manufacturing demand
has been largely switched on to silk and
artificial-silk goods. Of wool, only 43.000
bales were taken from Sydney in 1926-27 as
against 68,000 in the previous year, and
from Brisbane 2407 bales as against 14,144
bales. If the Court of Customs decision
had been upheld by the Supreme Court,
there would have been a golden harvest
awaiting growers, and the United States,
with its prosperity and vast population,
would have occupied a much higher place
on our buying list than it does to-day—
sixth, with Germany, Japan and even tiny
Belgium far ahead of it. In the circum-
stances either we must pay for our huge
American imports in gold, the stock of which
is rapidly diminishing—or leave off buying
them.


£10,000,000 IN INTEREST.
Since the Commonwealth Bank of Australia commenced business in 1913,
it has paid no less than £10,000,000 to its Savings Bank Depositors, as Interest
on their Savings.
In this respect alone, therefore, the advent of the Commonwealth Bank
has meant a great deal to Australia —and it should be remembered that the
Savings Department is only one section of this Bank’s Service to the Public.
Are you, as an individual Australian, • getting your share of these big
Interest Payments?
We want to help you become financially independent and for this purpose
place our entire service at your disposal.
Every branch of the Bank has a Savings Department, and every Post
Office is a Savings Bank Agency.
* Open an Account now.
(Tommonwealtb lank of Hustralia
(Guaranteed by the Commonwealth Government.)
MANGROVITE BELTING
Utmost Strength
everj/ Length
rn
Sasljfeca
W
rM
NO DRIVE
IS 21
NEW DRIVE
to
Mangrovite Leather or Raw-hide Belting
It is especially applicable to tlie various power jobs on the farm, because, under
cover, or out in the weather, it preserves consistently its unequalled aDUI D .
transmit every ounce of power with unfaltering regularity. We have been mamm,
belting for well over 40 years —and guarantee our products for emciencj, sirens l
and durability.
MANGROVITE BELTING LTD.,
Charles Ludowici, Managing Director./
49 York Street (Wynyard Square), Sydney.
POLITICAL
POINTS
No success has attended the efforts to
arbitrate between the N.S.W. ex-Ministers
who were sacked by Boss Lang and the new
Ministers who took their places without
caucus election. The annexation of the job
of a discharged workman (and especially
that of a workman who has broken no union
rule) is commonly described among unionists
as the last thing in the way of dog-meanness,
and if the new improvisation is known in
the A.W.U. as “the Scabinet” it is only
natural. At the same time some of their
fallen predecessors attract little sympathy;
the conduct of those who called on the man
who had kicked them out looked more billet-
hungry than dignified.
The present civil war in the N.S.W. Labor
camp recalls with curious exactitude the row
in the Irish Home Rule party of 1890 after
the fall of Parnell. One of the most lurid
verbal scraps was that waged between the
deposed leader and Tim Healy, now
Governor-General of the Irish Free State.
“If you want my honest opinion of Charles
Stuart Parnell,” observed Salisbury, then
Prime Minister, “I refer you to Mr. Healy.
If you want my estimate of Mr. Healy, I can
only say it is in entire accord with Mr.
Parnell’s.” Before the election in N. S.
Wales Lang and Mutch, Willis and Bailey
will be calling each other far worse names
than any Bavin could think of.
It did not take the Vic. Labor Government
long to discover that, with a big registration
of unemployed, it is one thing to find work
and another to induce men to accept it
unless it is within a tram-ride of the city.
Labor holds all the metropolitan seats north
of the Yarra and three south of the
Yarra, and although some projects are
essential in Greater Melbourne it was not
expedient to find jobs for thousands there.
Roadmaking, drainage works and the like
were put in hand in the country, but they
were not rushed. One of the troubles is
that the football is not nearly so interesting.
A few days after Governor Somers blun-_
dered into a criticism of the tariff on agri-
cultural implements, the Hogan Government
instructed the heads of State departments
that preference must be given to goods of
Australian manufacture. A more effective
protest than cataracts of rhetoric.
The Federal Cocky Conference was a
triumph for Earle Page. Learning that the
Westralian delegates were coming over to
Sydney with a proposal for “substantial
reductions” in the tariff, the Commonwealth
Treasurer got in ahead of them with a
speech in which he pointed out that
£12,000,000 worth of agricultural produce
and groceries was imported in 1925-26. for
which reason, and others, “we must be pre-
pared to frame a tariff which will protect
our primary industries as effectively as our
secondary industries are protected.” The
effect was such that the tariff-reduction move
failed, although the Westralian delegates
were consoled with the promise of an inquiry
by “a truly representative body” as to what
“natural and essential” industries are, and
how much Protection they require. Page is
more resourceful in these matters than the
other lialf-Priminister. That gentleman is
too prone, if platitudes fail, to suggest a
Royal Commission.
The British Conservatives continue to lose
by-elections, but not to the Labor Opposition.
Gee, V.C., who gave up politics to go wheat-
farming in Westralia, has been succeeded
in Bosworth by a follower of Lloyd George.
It was the Liberals’ third success in _ a
couple of months, the two previous victories
having been gained at Labor's cost. The
Australian Nationalists, who rely so much
on dull old hacks, have something to learn
from the Liberal revival, for it is mainly the
result of a wise appeal to young men. The
red blood of youth, coursing through the
veins of a party that was almost wiped
out at the general election, has made it
ag-.in a force to be reckoned with.
THE DIRTY DOG!
“Victorian Laborites are incensed because the Master Bakers have decided that the shorter hours
(48 to 44) and the increased wages (a rise of 8s. 6d. per week) secured by their employees necessitate
a rise of Id. per 41b. loaf.”
“It ain’t fair, I tell yer—it ain’t fair. Every time I gives ’im a wallop he lands me
one back!”
With 10 months’ trade returns available
it is evident that 1926-27 will be a wonder-
ful financial year. The Commonwealth ex-
ported £11,248,115 worth less merchandise
and imported £10,621,568 more than in the
corresponding period of last year. The first
result came about through not producing
enough, and the second through luxuriating
too much. An excess of strike and a super-
abundance of 44-hours concessions, granted
by Judges who seem to have mislaid their
political economy if they ever possessed it,
are contributing causes on one side, and an
increase of £2,000,000 in the outgoings for
foreign motor-cars helps on the other. It
has only been necessary so far to borrow
abroad some £38.000,000 or so to square the
accounts: but the year isn’t ended yet.
All the importing of luxuries and loan-
juggling naturally boom the customs re-
ceipts. For the 11 months of 1926-27 they
were £4,053,000 greater than for the cor-
responding period of 1925-26. If the immov-
able Federal Government would spend the
resulting surpluses in building, with all pos-
sible speed, a standard-gauge transconti-
nental railway, with no debt attached, it
might do something to improve the outlook —
some real development, in fact. But there
is a mule-like quality about the Government
which reminds old soldiers of the Argentine
animal they met at the war.
The “industrialists” of Darwin have been
again amusing themselves by twisting the
tail of Prime Minister Bruce. A Burns-
Philn steamer arrived laden with railway
material for the Katherine River-Emungalan
narrow-gauge extension. It had been prom-
ised that mild velocity would be shown in
the unloading, and for a time something like
that was exhibited. Then there was a stop-
work meeting, and afterwards the pace be-
came almost, imperceptible. It is hard to
explain Bruce’s craving to send ships loaded
with heavy materials half-way round Aus-
tralia in order to push on some languid
construction southward in a land of per-
petual strike, instead of concentrating on
the south end of the job where things are
normal and distances short.
Lately the largely-foreign element at Bowen
(Q.) has been holding up the port
again, one of the reasons being that an agent
who helped the fruitgrowers to load _ their
produce during the 3925 strike is still in
business. Cargo has had to be carried past
at serious cost, to be carried back again at
more cost, in the effort to ruin the agent and
• smash “capitalism” generally. The sugar-
growers of Mossman district asked that the
preference clause in the cane-cutters’ award
should be cancelled, and said that the terms
of the award were broken wholesale, and
that things were growing worse each year.
The Court said it didn’t think it could do
much good, but if the position didn’t improve
this year it would see what it could do next
year. It took three Judges to decide this.
There is a chirrup from Tasmania —the
surplus on the year will be a good deal
larger than the £22,000 bargained for. Not
only has the revenue increased by the
amount of the Commonwealth grant
(£346,000 as against £62.000 last year), but
practically every item of revenue has more
than held its own. Land-tax receipts have
already exceeded the full year’s estimate
(£113,625 as against £112,500) ; income-tax.
estimated at £544,000, has produced £557,500
(despite the 10 per cent, reduction in this
year’s tax), and duties on deceased persons’
estates exceeded the estimated £70,000 fay
some £60,000. But railway receipts con-
tinue to show a shortage. Little bister is
still losing population; but she is putting
her accounts in order, which is the first step
towards making herself attractive enough to
charm them home again.
There is a persistent drift of population
from the South Island of M.L. to the North.
Between 1921 and ’26 the North gained
90,558, 12.22 p.c., and the South 34,998, 7.33
p.c—less than the natural-increase rate. As
a result the Representation Commissions,
which periodically revise electoral- boundaries,
have reported in favor of taking yet another
seat from the South and giving it to the
North. The new electorate will be Auckland
South, increasing the Queen City’s Parlia-
mentary representation to eight _ members:
the South loses Ashburton, the 25-years-dry
electorate that returns Minister Nosworthy.
The North Island will then have 47 seats
and the South 29.
It was mentioned last week that Sydney
would shortly have four arbitration courts
sitting at once, while the coalmines were
held up, and the Lithgow iron strike had
just been settled by the management sur-
rendering to the boy who was at the bottom
of the trouble, and the railway electrification
men were talking stoppage. In Melbourne
a Court raised the baker’s
wage from £6 to £6 Bs.
4d. per week and reduced
the week from 48 hours
to 44, which was much
more important. This
brought in the side-issue
of overtime, for when
Monday is a holiday, and
work stops officially from
Friday to Tuesday, the
overtime spectre turns up
immediately, unless casual
and probably inferior
labor is available. So
bread went up Id. per
41b. loaf to make sure.
Other tradesmen, who arc
worse-paid than the
bakery men were, are
hurriedly getting their
cases ready for the Court,
alleging equity for one
thing and the high price
of bread for another. So
the dizzy circle starts
again.
The estimate for 1926
is that the six State
capitals gained 88,415
new inhabitants, while
lire Rest of the Common-
wealth gained 30,010.
which shows how poor a
second the land is run-
ning. Westralia is by far
the largest and most
thinly-peopled State, and
it lias specialised in group
settlement and other
efforts. For the year
Perth added 4835 to its
population, while the bal-
ance of the great area
added 1728. Tasmania
put up a quaint record.
The population of Hobart
diminished by 3610, but
as that of the whole
island only fell by 2278
it appears that the coun-
try gained 1332 people
from the capital. Per-
haps the fact that Tas-
mania is now the smallest
borrower in proportion to
population is the explanation. There is less
temptation to loaf round Parliament House
to see the Treasurer about a cm: out of the
loan.
Queensland’s Acting - Premier Forgan
Smith has written a stern letter to the dis-
turbing influences in the North. The Smith
attitude is that steps will be taken to vindi-
cate the arbitration statutes and the law
generally, and the attitude of the chronic
strikers is that Forgan may take whole stairs
if that will make him feel any better.
The prevailing impression is that the Mt.
Morgan mine will stay closed pending the
time when some wonder-worker discovers a
new method of metal extraction —with a cork-
screw or faith or something cheap. The
population of the town has fallen from 13,000
to 5000, but it is urged that with Federal
and State bonuses on copper it would be
speedily restored. It might be added that
given sufficient bonus it could be restored
without any copper. Sufficient bonus will
restore almost anything except the appa-
rently drowned or the Bourbon dynasty.
PULLED OFF THE FENCE.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“N.S.W. Minister Baddeley, now abroad, cauti-
ously cabled to the Mutch section of the State
Parliamentary Labor caucus: ‘Prom this distance
the position appears to be complicated; therefore I
have informed the Premier that the offer to me to
hold the present portfolio of Labor and Industry is
accepted by me with the right to consider the posi-
tion on return.’ Subsequently, on receipt of a per-
emptory cable from the Premier demanding to know
whether he would accept a portfolio, without equivoca-
tion, the Minister replied ‘Will accept portfolio.’ ”
’Phe crowd 1 left has split into
Two warring factions —rot 'em
Convulsed with schism through and through
And rent from top to bottom.
Old mates of yore for scalps and gore
Of comrades clamor madly;
But while they howl and rave and ramp
I sought to keep in either camp
A number nine, says Baddeley.
When Caucus into holts has got
And brother grapples brother,
The people’s tribune on the spot
Must take one side or t’other;
But far away from the affray—
A fact I mused on gladly—
A tolerant neutrality
Appeared the obvious role for me,
The safest, too, says Baddeley.
I didn't want to lose my job
With Lang pendente lite;
Still. Mutch might have a stronger mob,
’Tis hard to know in Blighty.
I couldn’t but feel that either Seale
Or Conroy’d blundered sadly;
But till I should re-cross the deep
I naturally wished to keep
An Open Mind, says Baddeley.
I wanted pros and cons to weigh,
To test, contrast and chart ’em,
To hear what each had got to say,
Then ponder alteram nartem.
Upon the stile, as ’twere, meanwhile
I’d sit in fashion straddly.
What’s this you say? It’s not allowed.
Well, then, I’m staying with the crowd
That holds the bag, says Baddeley.
N.S.W.
T. THE R.


ot* e
thi*
d
v\avO£i-
It
\
“And what do you
mean to make of your little man,
Mrs. Briskett ? ” asked the Squire.
“ A butcher, sir ” replied Mrs. 8.,
“ *E’s bound to be a butcher ; why, Vs
that fond of animals we can’t keep ’im
out of the slaughterhouse.”
A good story and a
good cigarette are
worth repeating!
swe
gPi^ESS
20 for Y 6
ARDATH TOBACCO CO: LTD: LONDON
SOCIETY
"And it's
Printed with
WIMBLE'S INKS"
A cheery young man named George Wil-'
liam Hardman made his first appearance in
tli e Sydney Insolvency Court at the beginning
of June, and told a short and exciting tale.
He came of age at the end of 1926, and
entered into legal possession of his expccta-
tions, which consisted of £l5OO from the
estate of an ancestor in England. He reck-
oned that the moneylender who bought the
prospects from him parted with about £21.8,
but his details were hazy. Anyhow, the for-
tune lasted till February, the inevitable horse
getting some of it. The insolvent s business
career consisted in being secretary to the
publicity agent of the Great White Train for
five weeks, and subsequently clerical assistant
and chauffeur to an archbishop. He was
described as a journalist, which shows that
journalism covers a lot of things which some
hardened old pressmen don’t suspect.
* •-!: * *
“F.D.”: A shrewd blow has been dealt to
the “missing-heir” business (B. 5/5/’2T) by
the Administration of Estates Act which
lately came into force
in England. In future,
if a man dies leaving
no will and no kin
nearer than uncles or
aunts of the half-blood
or their actual living
issue, the whole estate
goes to the Crown.
While it is not antici-
pated that revenue
from this source will
figure prominently in
future Budgets, any-
one who ardently loves
his more distant rela-
tives can still provide
for them by making a
will. Were this law to
become universal, no
hardship would be in-
flicted on anyone ex-
cept the writers of
feuilletons and the
firms that advertise
for missing heirs. The
legal profession would
make up the loss on
the swings of litigation by the extra profit
on the roundabouts of lengthier wills.
# * * *
“P.X.” : A party went down from Malla-
coota to the Riverina the other day and
climbed aboard from the beach. So close is
the once-favorite inter-Stater to the shore
that you can clamber up a rope ladder to a
spar, and so reach the deck. That makes
it easy to get cargo on to the beach; but.
when it gets there it is no more good than
the thousands of cases of apples that strew
the sand for half a mile on either
side of the wreck —if it is a wreck.
This sand is as soft as snow, and
you sink into it over your boots; and
behind the beach are dunes as much as a
hundred feet high and shifting with every
wind. Insurance men and others have con-
THE OTHER SIDE OF THE STORY.
THE VISITOR: “He is for ever talking about the bread his ma made."
TTHE HOSTESS: “Remind him of the dough your pa made."
NOW WHAT DID THE WOMAN MEAN?
“Too cold to go out these beastly evenings—l’ve been staying at home'and teaching
my wife poker.”
“Oh, thank you so much. There was a little poker party at our club yesterday, and
I won ten shillings from her.”
sidered the problem and wondered whether
the Sinai trick of laying a bed of wire-netting
would answer; but the foundation is too
soft, and it seems that whatever salvage is
done will have to be from seaward. Mean-
time every wave stirs up the soft sand and
throws it against the vessel. There is as
much as 13 feet of it banked up against
her at one spot, and it looks as though
presently there will be dry land even on
the seaward side. And on board is one of
the loneliest men in Australia: Captain
Parry remains in command, with his
thoughts, a cook and a winchman for com-
pany.
$ $
“Tom Enry”: John Gale’s 1300 ft. water-
fall on the south-western boundary of the
Federal Capital Territory (B. 5/5/’27) is
a myth. I have compass-tops-surveyed the
whole area referred to, “traversed” every
creek, its branches and anabranches to their
source, and can positively assert that no
such waterfall exists. There would be no
trouble whatever in finding it if it were
there. Even a sluice head of water falling
1200 feet, or half that distance, would roar
loud enough to be heard miles away. I
have personally known John Gale nearly 50
years, and have no. doubt whatever that he
saw something which he felt justified him
in making his statement. I have often seen
immense streams of water falling over cliffs
out of a “saddle” near the tops of dividing
ranges, but such “waterfalls” are the result
of a phenomenal rainfall or waterspout, and
last only a few hours. It was no doubt
something of this sort he and William Reid
saw.
a? * *- *
“N. or M.” : Governor Bligh is a pictur-
esque figure in our early history; let us
get him right. J. H. M. Abbott says (“The
Aristocrat,” B. 19/5/’27) : “The Governor
stared at his visitor with an ominous glare
in his blue eyes and a slight reddening of
the face.” Bligh was a dark-eyed man with
a fine, ivory-like skin which exposure to
the weather had not reddened or coarsened.
His biographer (Murray) puts this down
to his abstemious life; but apart from that
the dark-eyed, ivory-skinned type does not
redden easily. The best-known portrait of
Bligh is the drawing by J. Russell, R.A.
He always wore a bone ring which had at
one time decorated the nasal cartilage of
an island chief.
$ $
“Ex-Dig.”: An Englishwoman named
Drewett has induced the Sunday News of
London to feature her preposterous, story
about how she enlisted and served in the
A.I.F. There were probably a few women
who tried to enlist in Australia; one persis-
tent Melbourne girl, having secured a uni-
form. smuggled aboard no less than three
transports, and was put ashore from each of
them in W.A. The Drewett woman, however,
asserts that she duly enlisted in Perth and
was accepted, although “the recruiting ser-
geant looked at me keenly.” He would;
but not half as keenly as would the doctors
before whom every new enlistment had to
strip to the buff for inspection. Moreover,
there were the periodical medical parades,
which no one could avoid, when every sol-
dier had to produce definite evidence of his
masculinity.
* * * *
“Retsam”: The story of Minnie Rebecca
Drewett, who claims to have served in the
A.1.F., enlisting at Perth, is as full of impos-
sibilities as a colander is full of holes. Apart
from her silence about frequent and search-
ing medical inspection, how could she have
cooked on the troopship, when the cooking
was not done by our own men? No doubt
there were women in other armies. The
Russians had a whole regiment of them, and
women are known to have served in the Ser-
bian and Bulgarian armies. Near Flers we
found a dead woman in an old German dug-
out. But a lone woman in the A.I.F. —that
is too preposterous a tale.
:J: * * $
“ J.R.”: Rough-and-ready justice isn’t
always confined to bush townships. One
evening recently I left my car standing
without lights in a street of a well-known
S. Aus. seaside resort and in due course re-
ceived a summons. On presenting myself
at the police-station at the appointed hour
the officer-in-charge asked me to go with
him to find a J.P., whom we discovered
serving behind a grocery counter. Adjusting
liis specs., he asked me how I pleaded. I
admitted my guilt and he thereupon fined
me 2s. 6d. with 10s. court fees. On tender-
ing a pound-note he gave me the change from
liis till, and in return for his courtesy I pur-
chased a tin of sardines.
* :!i -I: : i :
“Riverina” : We were discussing the occult
in the shearers’ hut, and finally the talk
swung round to second-sight. “Yairs.” said
old Bundy Jack, “some coves ’as the gift
all right. There was my boy ’Orace. ’E
was always readin’ the future —-tippin’ win-
ners, an’ that sort o’ thing. At last ’e got
to think it was time ’e went to the city to
give ■ ’is gift a proper chance; there wasn't
enough scope fer it about Nannigoat Hill.
At the send-off we give ’im, me brother
Tom, who didn’t believe in ’Orace, says to
’im nasty like, ‘Well, I s’pose you’ll be
cornin’ back soon with a bag-swag an’ a
treacle-billy!’ ‘No,’ says the lad, full o’
confidence. ‘W’en I come back it’ll be in a
flash motor-car.’ ” Old Bundy paused re-
flectively. then: “I’m Mowed if ’Orace wasn’t
right,” he continued. “’E came back two
days later in a bran’-new car—a real snor-
ter ! But a p’liceman was with ’im. They’d
found out it was ’Orace that ratted the local
store a couple o’ nights afore ’e went away,
an’ they nabbed ’im at the next town.”
A WORD FOR WINTER.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Let others sing the lure of spring,
That blithe new-comer;
Or smite the lyre with force and fire
In eulogy of summer;
Or paint in mood that’s more subdued
Crisp autumn, orchard-tinter;
Here’s one glad hand, you bardic band,
If only one in all the land,
Outstretched to welcome winter.
The burnished dove —the dawn of love—
Long since have ceased to thrill me;
To shoot the wave no more I crave,
’Twould very nearly kill me.
The autumn’s glum till evenings come
With blazing coal to splinter.
A glowing hearth, a pipe, a book,
A possie in the inglenook,
These are the gifts of winter.
No more our necks the ’skeeters vex,
No flies the tables clutter;
The iceless meat keeps firm and sweet,
And hard as cheese the butter.
And what’s there wrong if nights be long
When memory, the minter
Of fancy’s coin that shines and gleams,
Whirls me away to old-world dreams
That only come in winter.
Their odes to spring let others bring,
I wouldn’t have them dumber;
1 care no hang what harps may twang
With serenades to summer.
Yet I as well my choice would tell
In lines that limn a colder belle —
God send they reach the printer!
P.S. —I very near forgot
The virtues of a whisky hot,
Or rum-and-milk in winter.
N.S.W.
IFORD.


“X.D.”: An ancient but almost forgotten
trick was revived by an enterprising gang of
Port Melbourne burglars when breaking a
window to get at some furs the other night.
They first smeared the pane with the Colonial
Sugar Refinery’s best golden syrup and then
stuck a bag over the mess. Smart taps on
the bag shattered the glass but left it stick-
ing noiselessly to the sweetmeat. Brown
paper and treacle, I understand, are equally
effective.
* :|: * :!•.
“D.D.” : Recently at Altona, a few miles
from the powerful ALO broadcasting station,
I heard music emanating from iron girders.
There was no wireless receiver or other
instrument about, and the noise puzzled me
until I distinctly heard the call sign. 3LO,
Melbourne. On making inquiries, I was
assured that this was caused by shock-excita-
tion and that similar phenomena were
common in the district. The thing that is
troubling me is that the girders form part
of the structure of the powder magazine.
Would there be any danger of an explosion
by Avireless?
* * * *
“4 by 2” : The gas employed by some of
the A.I.F. batteries in 1918 Avas much worse
than Jerry’s mustard. On one occasion Avhen
observers went over the ground after the
strafe they found the place littered Avith
German corpses. Almost every man had
the chemical container of his gas-mask off
and the spare container clutched in his hands.
This stuff Avas so deadly that it choked the
container almost immediately, and although
it took only an instant to change containers
that was sufficient for the gas to finish its
lethal work. When the Germans inaugurated
gas warfare one April day in 1915 they
apparently forgot or ignored the fact that
in those latitudes the Avind blows from the
west 9 months out of the 12. That little
oversight cost them dear when the Allies
got over their squeamishness about using the
deadly abomination. We used it first at
Loos in Sept., 1915.
* * * *
“Irel”: The practice of posting money
with letters when there Avere no stamps
handy was indulged in almost daily by the.
cenient-workers of a well-known western
town of N.S.W. when I was earning a crust
in the local p.o. Five minutes before the
mail closed the faint tinkle of coppers would
be heard. The telegraph messenger who
cleared the box Avas always grumbling about
the extra work Avhich it involved for him.
He averaged six unstamped letters nightly
from the letter receivers and never found a
halfpenny over the exact amount of postage,
* # * *
“Chevroford”: This week’s best motor-
theft story comes from Melbourne. X parked
his neAv Whippet alongside another neAV
Whippet in front of a picture-theatre
and Avent to keep an appointment a
little distance away. On his return he was
exchanging a few last words with a friend
on the other side of the street, when he
observed a man come out of the theatre, get
into one of the cars and drive off. X rushed
across to examine the remaining Whippet
and found it wasn’t his. He began to
investigate and learned from the theatre
people that their electrician, owner of the
car, had just left for home to have his
dinner and come back for the evening show.
The obvious explanation was that he had
taken X’s machine in error, and as X
wanted to go home for dinner and return,
too, he saw no harm in borrowing the electri-
cian’s Whippet. When he got back a very
angry electrician, who had really been having
a final spot in a neighboring bar, was wait-
ing for him. X had watched the theft of
his own car, which was subsequently found
beyond Heidelberg, minus all accessories, in-
cluding five tyres.
* * * *
“X.N.0.” : The tale of the gentleman who
kept real snakes to prove that the others were
imaginary (B. 12/5/’27) reminds me. Not
so many years ago the Admiralty kept a
couple of sloops on police work on the
west coast of Africa, and to them were mostly
drafted naval officers over-addicted to “pegs.”
One of these sloops was alongside a west-
coast jetty when a cat strolled into the Avard-
room Ayhere the local Resident was being
entertained. Puss walked round the table
and Avas eyed furtively and apprehensively
by several of the officers. Nobody attempted
to touch her until she approached the visitor,
who stooped down and stroked her. The
sigh of relief at the disclosure that she was
a genuine cat was audible as far away as
the local pub.
* * * *
“The Listening-Insect”: The electrocuting
of a woman in England while listening-in at
a crystal set gives radio-users something to
excogitate. The unfortunate lady certainly
did not get the current that fused her via
the air. The amount passed through the
ether by even the strongest station can’t be
compared even with what is used to start a
motor engine, and in any case the quantity
a crystal can convey is infinitesimal. The
victim was found grasping an electric read-
ing-lamp. Probably the insulation of the
lamp circuit was faulty, and the full lighting
voltage passed through her body and found
an earth via the rims of her spectacles, her
headphones and the set. Most headphones
are properly insulated when they are sold,
but insulation proceeds to perish as soon as
it is put on. Human bodies, considered as
conductors, vary enormously. I once mea-
sured the resistance of quite a number by
the Wheatstone bridge, and they differed suf-
ficiently to suggest that some might safely
handle voltages that would kill others. Some
day, as the world gets more electrified, it
may be necessary to classify people accord-
ing to their ohmage and insulate the low
ones permanently. I didn’t carry my inves-
tigations far enough to advance any useful
theories, but the person who registered the
lowest resistance —that is, would carry the
most current—was the only one with red
hair.
* * * *
“A.J.J.T.”: Cases of old people whose
sight gradually improves until it becomes as
good as ever (B. 26/5/’27) are by no means
infrequent. I know an old lady of 87 who
for years used glasses for reading, fancy-
work, etc.; for the last six years she has
been able to dispense with them. The expla-
nation is simple, from the medical point of
view. About 45 the average person begins
to feel the need of glasses on account of
presbyopia, which is simply the longsighted-
ness incident to old-age. In most cases this
is slowly progressive and spectacles have to
be periodically strengthened, but people who
Avere previously affected with short-sighted-
ness —who are equally liable to presbyopia
in the middle forties —find that they can
gradually use weaker glasses, and if they
live long enough the long-sightedness of pres-
byopia overtakes the preA 7 ious short-sight and
THE RIVALS.
“The general election in N. S. Wales will probably be fixed for August 26. Meantime Mr. hang
and Mr. Mutch, the leaders of the rival sections of the Parliamentary Labor party, continue their
bitter attacks upon one another; and, joining in the row, Dr. Evatt last week described Mr. Lang as •
‘the greatest crook in the movement.’”
TOM WORKER: “I say, Mary, what’s the matter with them?”
MRS. WORKER: “Well, it’s this way, Tom. We want a nurse to look after baby and
take him out for a walk, and these two girls are showing me how well fitted
they are for the job.”
there comes a time when glasses can be
dispensed with. Hence this sort of “second
sight,” although, of course, it only applies
to what is called simple short-sightedness
overtaken by simple presbyopia.
* * * *
“Lao-dah”: “L.C.M.” (B. 2G/5/’27) gives
a list of ailments caused by slow poisoning
with arsenic. Isn’t another effect of steady
dosing likely to be increased resisting-power
to the stuff? I knew a planter so full of
malaria that quinine had no effect on him.
He started treating himself with arsenic,
very gradually enlarging the amount until
he took sufficient daily to kill a mob of
buffaloes. Yet he never showed any effects
except dreadful attacks of loquacity when
his guests wanted to go to bed.
* # * *
“Ben Zine”: Ratana isn’t Maoriland’s
only “prophet,” though he absorbs most of
the limelight. A seer named Rua is still to
be found at his old address in the Urewera
country of the North Island. He has
sojourned in the little village of Maungapo-
hatu with his five wives and over three
score children for many years past. This
patriarch has had many more wives in his
time, some of them presented by admirers,
and others who just dropped into their place,
as it were, and subsequently dropped out
again. Ilua, at somewhere near GO, is now
awaiting with his retainers the coming to
M.L. of the Messiah in the month of August.
He is so positive about the date that he has
allowed nearly all his fertile land of many
thousand acres to revert to a wilderness, and
there are barely sufficient sheep, cattle and
pigs to last out the faithful. The “Temple”
and houses that were originally roofed with
wooden shingles are now lidded with corru-
gated iron, for it has been vouchsafed to Rua
that when the Messiah comes the stars will
fall, and a burning village would be no place
for the reception of the Master.
* * * *
“Anthony Gloster” : The Pet Lamb Hotel
(B. 2/6/’27) reminds me of a little wayside
pub near Goondiwindi (Q.) which was finally
licensed after some desperate opposition
from a neighboring squatter. The objector’s
name was Wyndham, and the new-fledged
Bung promptly named his tavern the
Wyndham Arms, much to the pastoralist’s
annoyance.
'*■ -I* *!■
“Hori” : Dame Melba's lingering farewells
recall to me two prospectors I once knew.
They had struck a pretty good show and
whenever they hit
town indulged in a
jag of several days’
duration which al-
wa y s concluded
with the same
ritual. Joe called
all hands into the
bar, and when the
glasses were filled
announced, “Boys,
the semi-final.” The
toast having been
duly honored, his
partner shouted;
this time it was,
“Boys, the final.”
Then Bung would
fill ’em up once
more and Joe would
solemnly hiccup,
“Boys, the grand
finale.” That didn’t
always quite end it,
either.
“Balala”: The N.S.W. claimants to the
Clark millions are not on the wild-goose
chase that “J.E.” would have us believe
(B. 26/5/27). All of William Andrews
C ark s children predeceased their father.
-three firms of N.S.W. solicitors who have
investigated the contention of the Australian
ielatiA r es are satisfied that the relationship is
beyond doubt. There is evidence, too, that
Clark visited his N.S.W. relatives 40 years
ago. The TJ.S. Consul in Sydney has assisted
the claimants in many ways. “J.E.” writes
as if the claim had only lately been made;
actually it has been in the hands of Sydney
solicitors for over IS months. Incidentally,
five of the 17 claimants have knocked off:
work, so satisfied are they of their chances of
securing their portion of the 60-odd mil-
lions.
* * * *
“Taranaki”: Mt. Eginont, the beautiful
Maoriland peak that rises suddenly from the
Taranaki plain to a height of over 8000 feet,
has claimed two more victims. Three mas-
ters at Wanganui College with a 10-year-old
pupil tried to climb to the summit; when
nearly there a slip caused a glissade of 500
feet on the ice, the rocks killing one of the
roped men and battering the other two into
unconsciousness. The boy, son of another
master, made his way down to the Dawson
Falls Hostel, following a river-bed through
dense forest, and through his plucky descent
one man was saved. When there is an
accident on the mountain the guides from
the hostels on different parts of the great
mountain all turn out, doctors rush from
the various towns round the base, and visit-
ing mountaineers join the expeditions that
scour the peak. Fearful storms strike the
summit, and as nearly all the mountain
spurs end ip precipices or run into tremen-
dous gorges the task of getting a disabled
climber down to safety is a hazardous one.
Egmont holds the M.L. record for deaths
and accidents, although in summer the climb
is fairly safe.
* * * *
“The Listening-Insect”: “Stellsby's” sug-
gestion that wireless may be responsible for
Melbourne’s recent immunity from electric
storms (B. 26/5/’27) reminds me that Sir
Oliver Lodge, in the days when he was a
practical electrician, pointed out that it
was theoretically possible for mankind,
granted the co-operation, to assume complete
control over the elements and produce rain
or prolong a drought at will. A metal band
completely encircling the globe was all that
was required, plus a power-station capable
of charging it with electricity of a polarity
opposite to that of the clouds. Such a
device, he claimed, would bring down
moisture provided it was present in the
heavens. The only trouble would be about
the ownership of the power-house. It might
get into the hands of people who wanted to
make a corner in grain. Or some idiot might
turn the thing on at the wrong time and
precipitate another Flood. _ *
“F.H.C.”: “Nakhoda” falls into a common
error when he states that the memory of the
late James Palmer, first President of the
Vic. Leg. Council, survives in St. James
Park (Hawthorn). Isabella, Shakspeare and
Coppin’s groves are in St. James Park, which
was so named by George Coppin after St.
James Park in London.
:Js * * %
“Buna” : A Maoriland citizen had a series
of misfortunes the other day. After a con-
vivial excursion he was pursuing a devious
course in his car and thereby attracted the
attention of the law, which promptly re-
moved him to the lock-up. In the course of
going through the oblivious one’s pockets
the police chanced upon suspicious papers,
and the outcome of his spree was not only
the cancellation of his driving license for
five years but a £2OO fine for illegal book-
making.
“btellsby” : Ex - war-
correspondent Ashmead
Bartlett can hardly cher-
ish the illusion that his
smuggled letter to Asquith
condemning General lan
Hamilton’s military tac-
tics brought about the
evacuation of Gallipoli 10
weeks after the letter
reached its destination (B.
26/5’27). For one thing,
another general super-
seded Hamilton. For an-
other, Kitchener, who
was then in control at the
War Office —and who had
never seen the Peninsula,
decided, before Bartlett’s
alleged letter “made his-
tory,” that a personal in-
spection of Gallipoli was
long overdue. He came in
mid-November, saw, con-
demned and departed. At
the end of December the
evacuation was an estab-
lished fact. Kitchener re-
cognised that the cam-
paign was a hopeless one,
for Hamilton or any other
man. My eyes saw it all
from Ilelles to Suvla from
the deck of a British ship
of fight. Had the Army
been ready when our ships made the
first assault the history of the Great War
undoubtedly would have been written dif-
ferently—and Ashmead Bartlett's talents
wasted. I hate to butt into a war argument,
but some of these critics make me tired.
* * * *
“Erua”: It isn't only in Highland Scot-
land that the ancient feud between the
Camerons and the Campbells persists (B.
2/6/’27). Last season a prominent Sydney
bowler took a visiting Campbell along to his
green and introduced him to a member of
the Cameron clan. The Cameron’s greeting
was so chilly that the mutual friend spoke
to him about it later. “Weel,” was the
explanation, “we Camerons have never
cared much about the Campbells since
Inverlochy !” “Inverlochy!” gasped the other,
with vague memories of Aytoun’s verse. “But
that was nearly three centuries ago. “Ay,”
admitted the Cameron, “inebbe —but the
Campbells will be juist the same!”
IF TRIXIE TOLD.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
I wonder if the world could hold
The wonderment that would unfold,
Of dreams of glowing rose and gold,
If Trixie told
Of thoughts, maid-shy and vixen-bold ;
Of tenderness, and tears consoled
By arts as old as earth is old;
Of warmth and ardor uncontrolled
In one so calm and seeming-cold.
I wonder if the world could hold
The damages that would unfold;
I Avonder if the Judge would scold,
If Trixie told!
QUEENSLAND.
MACESS.
ONE WE KNOW,
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
H first appeare d, from what we hear,
Snon af *A r Adam lost his rib •
Al)( , stin W e see his cunning leer
\nd i.i ni i nn ,i . 11H i oKvivs ?lib
1I( ,- S oftea there’when things are right.
\nd almost alwavs whpn thev’re wrong*
jj ( / s c iose beside us day and night
The bloke who knew it all along,
Whoever’s missing, he’ll be there,
pjjs age-old message to impart;
Although it wasn’t his affair
lie had its measure from the start,
Serene upon the boards lie struts,
The world's most pertinacious mime,
Telling us how. as in lie butts,
He tumbled to it all the time.
This world would be a brighter spot
Some poet quite correctly states,
Were bores incontinently shot
From out it, through convenient gates,
I’d keep for more revengeful doom,
Aye, in the hottest Ilell I'd dump
The nark, the nuisance and the boom
Who jerried to it at the jump,
w.A.
OSCAR WALTERS.


cmotNi
MAGNIFICENT MASTERP/ECf
THE UEW
'"rt,
Bsgn 9
%
f i
GREATER POWER
with S/LENCE
GREATER SPEED
with SAPETK
greater luxury
with ECONOMY
Giving 35 miles to
the gallon, Citroen
still retains its title—
“ The World’s
Economy Car.”
Embodying the salient features of Continental, British and
American engineering principles the new 814 Citroen is an entirely
new type of car. Heavier, more sturdily built and more powerful
than most light cars—yet withal maintaining the Citroen standard
of economy—-it fulfils a definite demand for a car of its horse-
power, strength and dependability.
Continental in design, with the
perfect balance of every unit
ensuring remarkable silence—
British in a solid construction
that ensures years of care-free
motoring—American in its pep,
snappy pick-up and speed
adequate for every occasion—
the new Citroen has been uni-
versally acclaimed as “the super
light car.”
Owners take a pride in its dis-
tinguished appearance find
real comfort in its luxurious
appointments and deeply-
sprung upholstery. The fitting
of Westinghouse Vacuum
Brakes on all 814 models is an
assurance of absolute safety.
H
n
you See them. Everywhere
MARQUETTE MOTORS. LTD.,
121-131 Flinders Street, Sydney.
PRESTON MOTORS PTY., LTD.,
114-122 Franklin Street, Melbourne.
CUSTOM HOUSE MOTOR CO., LTD.,
Petrie’s Bight and 453 Ann Street, Brisbane.
MAUGHAN-THIEM MOTOR CO.,
185-189 Pulteney Street, Adelaide.
CITROEN MOTORS, LTD.,
205 Stuart Street, Dunedin, N.Z.
COMET MOTORS, LTD.,
918 Hay Street, Perth.
GORMACK & PETTIGREW,
Invercargill and Gore, N.Z.
Factory Distributors: W. A. CROWLE, LTD., Crowle House, Castlereagh Street, Sydney, N.S.W.


è
°7Ao fAjnt pleases the. flalate
o
0
0
a
AN ORANGE DRINK
manufactured
EXCLUSIVELY QY
Usher’s Hotel Ltd
Castlereagh Street, Sydney.
A first-class new and up-to-date
modern hotel.
Ilunning hot and cold water in all bid-
rooms and many have Bath de Luxe.
Automatic bedside telephones.
English and Trench Cuisine.
New Marble Bar, spacious and airy.
For perfection of service, comfort
and cleanliness, Usher’s Ltd. is un-
equalled.
Inclusive Terms, apply
MANAGER
Queensland
Insurance Co.
Ltd.
Head Office:
Pitt & Bridge Streets,
Sydney.
The Largest
Australian Company
transacting
Fire, Marine, Personal
Accident and Sickness,
Burglary, Live Stock,
Public Risk, Boiler Ex-
plosion, Workers’ Com-
pensation, etc., etc.
“Windbag” : Despite the splendor of some
recent aerial achievements the record for a
non-stop flight is still held by a German
Zeppelin. It was put up in 1917, when the
huge craft left a Bulgarian base to carry
medical supplies to the German forces
marooned in East Africa. Flying up the
Nile, the Zep. had almost reached its desti-
nation when wireless from Europe told of
the German East African Force’s surrender
to General Smuts, and gave orders for the
airship’s return. Facing about, it got back,
without mishap, to its Bulgarian starting-
point, after 96 hours in the air. Curiously
enough, no one seems to have spotted the
big machine on its long journey to the
equator, though in that clear and cloudless
sky it should have been visible at a greater
height than its load permitted it to attain,
and enemy posts were dotted all along its
route.
* * *
“Iford” : Touching this wearisome .Tellicoe-
Beatty controversy. Some months ago I
predicted, with all the humility of a civilian
and without expressing any opinion cither
way, that naval experts would go on arguing
about the Battle of Jutland to the crack of
doom, only to be told by “X.N.0.” that
“pukka” naval experts never argued, all of
them being convinced that Jellicoe was in the
right, which point he proceeded to demon-
KEEPING IT ON THE SHELF.
“I sent my -photo to three papers when our engagement was announced, and none of
the brutes have printed it.”
“Cheer up, old darling! They’re saving it for your divorce.”
strate with some further arguments. And
now, so far from the recently published
Harper report, written by a man whose
avowed object was to “disprove the myth
of an incompetent Jellicoe,” being accepted
by anyone as final, we have the Loudon
Times remarking that “the broad conclusion
at which most people have arrived is that
there can never, to the end of time, be
complete unanimity about the conduct or
consequences of the Battle of Jutland; the
final verdict will depend for each commenta-
tor upon his own estimate of the risks and
opportunities.” I fancy most people will
agree with this, with the possible exception
of the “pukka” naval experts.
* * * *
“Sebrof” : In this matter of street nomem
clature can anyone show’ me a suburb as
literary as St. Kilda (Vic.) ? Here are
thoroughfares named after Browning, Burns,
Byron, Chaucer, Coleridge, Dryden, Milton,
Sliakspeare, Shelley, Tennyson, Wordsworth,
Addison, Dickens, Hood, Kipling, Lytton,
Ruskin, Southey and Thackeray.
# * * *
“Dunbar” : In this matter of street nomen-
clature Longreach (Q.) is markedly avian.
In its streets and lanes you will find spoon-
bill. finch, wren, canary, kingfisher, corella,
ibis, cockatoo, emu, crow, eagle, mag-
pie. galali, parrot, crane, pigeon, cassowary
and hawk. Barcaldine. on the other hand,
is intensely arboreal. Plane, cypress, poplar,
oak, ash, elm, yew, fir. gidya, acacia, boree
and bauhinia have all provided labels for its
thoroughfares.
“A. Jack”: For consistent street nomen-
clature I nominate Broken Hill, the names
of its principal thoroughfares being entirely
mineral. There are Crystal, Argent, Blende,
Beryl, Cobalt, Wolfram and Mica streets one
way; Gypsum, Gossan, Garnet, Kaolin, Bro-
mide, Chloride, Oxide and lodide are the
cross-highways. When the supply of minerals
gave out streets were named after the pio-
neers. After that the local council fell back
on Labor politicians.
* * :|! *
“Nakhoda”: What seems to be the best
garden-suburb scheme to date confronts the
wayfarer after he has emerged from the
dingy squalor of Port Melbourne at Fisher-
men's Bend. It is a project of the State
Savings Bank, which acquired 12 acres of
retired swamp and aims at obtaining 29
more. About 37 houses are already finished.
Each block contains two semi-detached, two-
storeyed houses, of five decent rooms, equip-
ped with gas and electric light. Streets are
wide, pavements flagged and paling fences
relegated to the back yards. Houses cost
under £900; deposit, £5O; balance, 255.
weekly, which covers roads and sewerage.
The houses are well made of concrete blocks
cemented over and the outside walls have
been painted varying warm shades of green, red
and yellow, the upper storeys different from
the iower. What with the red roofs, the
gay walls and the general self-respecting
kemptness of the show, if the owners don’t
sing in their canary-cages it will be surpris-
ing. I am not usually in favor of housing
workers in standardised suburbs built by
mass production; but if it has to be done,
it might as well be done in this happy
fashion. And if the final effect doesn’t have
a reciprocal influence on other suburbs and
even on our drab, grey city buildings, it will
mean that the country is color-blind or some-
thing.
“Senojo”: Tooronga (Vic.) lias a Bluff-
street, but no bold headland gave it its name.
One sunny morning a wealthy resident,
whose stately domicile overlooked green
meads that sloped down towards Gar-
diner Creek, was disturbed to. observe a
surveyor and his assistant pegging out the
view. “Building allotments, sir,” was the
blunt reply to his anxious questioning; and
he lost no time in locating the owner and
buying the whole area. Then he found the
business was a frame-up, staged for his
benefit. When he eventually succumbed to
GETTING GERTIE'S GARTER.
ASSISTANT: “I can guarantee this garter to hold up any stocking.”
CUSTOMER: “Yes, no doubt it will. But I want one that will hold up the traffic.
the temptation to sub-divide and sell, he
commemorated the incident by naming a
new thoroughfare “Bluff-street.”
$ * * *
“Strict Veg.” : There was something of a
domestic tragedy in the delicensing of a
pub at Bendigo the other day. It was the
Shamrock Hotel at Epsom, and the owner,
H. J. Jones, was born in it in 1870. His
father had held the license for 37 years and
himself for 23; no other name had ever
appeared above the door for 58 years.
* * *
“F.S.”: Unless Herculaneum was entirely
populated by wowsers it isn’t likely to yield
treasures any different from those already
recovered from Pompeii, since both towns
were blanketed simultaneously (B.
26/5/’27). The curious who wish to study
the culture of the period should obtain a
pass into the “secret room” at the Naples
Museum, where are stored articles retrieved
from Pompeii which are not considered fit
for general tourist consumption. Here are
to be seen statuettes, fountains, hanging-
lamps, powder-boxes, combs, wall-paintings
and other domestic. objects, every one of
which has as its artistic motive some sexual
attribute, usually perverted. The manner in
which some of these motives, notably in the
lamps, have been conventionalised indicates
that they had been worked on by centuries
of craftsmen, like the Egyptian bas-reliefs.
When I first saw them I imagined that they
had been obtained from some Pompeiian
bachelor’s private drawer or the boudoirs of
the demi-monde. Just before I was at Pom-
peii, however, the house of a highly respect-
able Roman citizen with a large family had
been excavated and I went to inspect it. In
the entrance-liall was a heavy iron door pad-
locked against the wall and behind it was a
picture quite unutterably unspeakable,
according to the guide. The iron door hadn’t
been put there by the original owner, either.
* * * *
‘ “Strict Veg.” : A humorous feature of the
Yorks’ visit was the solemn politeness of
their secretaries in acknowledging the rub-
bish that was piled upon royalty by self-
advertisers. Even now they are still wire-
lessing from the Renown the visitors’ grate-
ful thanks for this and that, which will be
duly treasured for ever and a day. Amongst
the latest is the acknowledgment of a pic-
ture entitled “Moonlight Over the Waters,”
by a person whose name was hitherto un-
known in the realm of Australian art. From
the cautious secretary’s language it might
bo a Lambert or a Streeton.
* * * *
“C.Q.”: The wireless plebiscite in Vie.
continues to reveal the deplorable levity of
the public mind. Band Music still heads
the list, with Wrestling Descriptions a good
second. Religious Services is slowly creep-
ing up, having already passed Public Cere-
monies, Talks on Books and Political
Speeches; while Women’s Interests and Mar-
ket Reports are struggling hopelessly in the
rear.
* * $
“Caveman”: “Uramao’s” burglar who
camped in the attic over a store (B. 26/5/’2T)
reminds me of a curious happening in France
in 1916. At the Signal Training Camp at
Abbeville, the canteen secretary was puzzled
over incessant shortages in various lines.
Then a carpenter at work in the canteen
blundered on a camp under the floor, equipped
with bed and blankets, tucker and sundries.
It was quite a comfortable lair, and a
methodical stack of discarded tins indicated
where the stolen goods had gone. The tenant
was eventually trapped, and turned out to
be a British soldiei-. He was taken away,
tried for attempted desertion and given seven
years.’ Very unfortunately for himself he
appealed for a further hearing, and on this
occasion some more damning facts came out.
It was elicited that he had been missing from
his regiment for nearly 18 months, and there
was evidence that lie had camped under
several canteens during that period. This
time the Court found him guilty of actual
desertion, and he faced the early-morning
firing-squad.
* * * *
• “C.Q.”; Snobbery extends even to the
naming of streets. The Victorian Society
for the Protection of Animals is asking the
Melbourne City Council to rename poi-tion of
Little Bourke-street Post Office-place. It
isn’t because the horses find the old historic
name difficult to pronounce, but because the
society has bought property in the locality
and presumably doesn’t think the literary
associations quite respectable.
“C.Q.”; Talking of curious place names.
Australia may have one longer than Percha-
beifeldkirchenbeiwesterham (in Austria), but
I’ll bet she hasn’t any shorter than one I
know in France. It is Y.
BALLADE OF THE NOT-SO-BAD.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
1 own (nor find the owning drear)
I lack each peerless attribute;
Perfection fills me yet with fear,
I stand dispirited and mute
Before the godlike man (or brute)
In first and champion honors clad;
I like me more that plain galoot
Who’s merely rated “not so bad.”
Though ancient wisdom may appear
My fondest reasoning to confute,
1 feel no human comfort near
Your spotless saint, your speckless fruit;
My diffidence indeed’s acute,
A lonely way I’m like to pad
Unless I find some feckless coot
Like me, among the “not so bad.”
So let the righteous and austere
1 )eny the earth from which they shoot;
The dust is warm and kind and dear
To one who plays a rifted lute.
My lowly dulness to transmute
To glitter is to make me sad,
But leave me —I’ll not give a hoot! —
Classed merely with the “not so bad.”
Envoy.
Let no tombstone to me impute
The virtues that I never had ;
Grant me with my last sleeping-suit
The epitaph of “Not so bad.”
QUEENSLAND.
HASEN.


SS
as
5S
\\
i:
SL
T,
S 7
//
c\
s
1
I
L\N
l
i
4
»
h
(0
mv\v%
/
//
)
i
V)
%
Lindbergh’s Aeroplane
which he used on his great flight between New York and Paris
was equipped with
SKF Ball & Roller Bearings
ft is significant that in every history-making flightSKF*-
marked anti-friction Bearings have been used. No greater
tribute to their Stamina and Reliability could be expressed
than this confidence in their power “to carry through”
when man gambles with life against the elements of
Nature.
é
SELF fIUGN/NO
BELL BEARING
FOR NORMAL LOADS
SELF ALIGNING ROLLER
BEARING FOR HEAVY
LOADS AND SEVERE DUT9
THE SKP BALL BEARING CO. LTD.
IS
Melbourne: 595 Bourke Street.
Sydney: 45 King Street.
Adelaide: Win. Adams & Co* Ltd.
Brisbane : Win. Adams & Co. Ltd.
Perth : Unbehaun St Johnstone
(W. A.) Ltd.
Launceston4 W. H. Knight St
Peter Bros. Ltd.
Hobart.: Charles Davis Ltd


“Metrovick” Products Include
The Marie of
Efficiency
TURBO-ALTERNATORS
ROTARY CONVERTERS
AUTOMATIC SUB-STATIONS
SUPERVISORY CONTROL
TRACTION APPARATUS
GENERATORS, A.C. AND D.C.
INDUSTRIAL MOTORS
CONTROL GEAR
TRANSFORMERS
SWITCHGEAR, A.C. AND D.C.
INSTRUMENTS
PERMIT US TO QUOTE FOR YOUR REQUIREMENTS.
MELBOURNE.
SYDNEY,
ADELAIDE,
è
BRISBANE
AND
WELLINGTON, N.Z.
NOBEL-GLASGOW EXPLOSIVES.
The Standard of Quality throughout the Empire.
Monobcl
Samsonite
Gelatine Dynamite
Gelignite
Blasting Gelatine
Dynamite
Safety Fuse
Detonators
Cartridges
SECURE A RELIABLE EXECUTOR
bv appointing
THE TRUSTEES, EXECUTORS AND AGENCY CO., LIMITED,
412 COLLINS STREET. MELBOURNE.
(The Pioneer Trustee Company of Australasia.)
Its experience of over 48 years in controlling all classes of Estates ensures a service that will
protect the interests of your dependants.
If you have already appointed a private Executor, the Company can be substituted by a short
codicil.
SECURITY: Capital (Paid and Uncalled) and Reserves exceed £886,000
Arrange an interview or write for booklet.
DIRECTORS: Sir John Grice (Chairman),
Harry Emmerton, R. O. Blackwood,
CHAS. R. SMIBERT, General Manager.
Sir J. 11. MacFarland, M.A., LL.D. (Vice-Chairman),
D. Stuart Murray, Alexander Stewart.
V. G. WATSON, Manager.
The WILD CAT
COLUMN
The Colonial Mutual Life Assurance
Society, Ltd.: —
Ordinary Department.
Ex- Written Added to
Dec., Income. Claims. penses. Off. Funds.
1900. £406,428 £218,526 £77,735 £67,969 £42,198
1905.. 461,663 281,453 101.078 150,000 29,132
1910.. 557,103 333,339 115,976 107,788
1915.. 616,237 318,307 92,326 11,081 194,523
1916.. 649,440 367,261 99.69 S 10,724 171,757
1917.. 692,062 368,618 112,911 8,175 202,358
1918.. 732,389 414,448 109,982 7,473 200,486
1919.. 790,102 434,797 129,775 5,580 219,950
1920.. 880,031 344,660 144,684 4,303 386,384
1921.. 932,177 424,255 160,840 14,340 332,742
1922.. 972,331 446,662 154,156 4,283 367,230
1923. .1,042,210 481,770 164,880 1.817 393,743
1924. .1,123,881 513,690 196,823 9,723 403.645
1925. .1,251,689 568,113 226,659 2,047 H7n
Superannuation Fund, £13,000.. i 441,8<
1926. 591,843 242,131 2,875 ( , on
Superannuation fund, £l3OO .. j
The management has added success to success
of recent years, and last year’s figures show
that there is no dulling of the keenness which
has lifted the Colonial Mutual among the
great Life offices of Australia. The high
mark reached in the Ordinary branch for
1925 was easily passed. Almost 500 fewer
new policies were written, but at £4,357,407
the total sum assured was £445,003 greater,
yielding an annual return of £176,554 com-
pared with £100.923. Progress has been
almost unbroken for more than a decade, and
last year’s total of policies written was almost
three times greater than that of 1918:—•
1880 . . £823,210 | 1920 . . £2,482,385
1890 . . 1,880,800 | 1921 . . 2,578,774
1900 . . 610,638 1922 . . 2,317,665
1905 . . 922,401 1923 . . 2,816,327
1910 . . 2,598,247 1924 . . 3,389,436
1915 .. 1,298,248 1925 .. 3,911,805
1919 .. 2,207,923 1926 .. 4,357,407
Expansion is expected, of course, for in insur-
ance, as in other activities, £lOO to-day is
worth much less than the same amount in
pre-war years. Recognition of this fact has
resulted in much additional cover being taken
out, and the average policy nowadays is, in
many offices, for practically double the
amount of earlier years. In the case of the
Colonial Mutual, the average Ordinary policy
taken out in 1912 was £237; last year, it
was £42S. At the same time, competition
for business has grown sharper. Not only
is there an almost reckless hunt for business
by the young cos.; the older offices are keener
in their search. But with them it is' not so
much a question of getting big business as of
getting business that is likely to stick.
In this hunt the Colonial Mutual lias not
escaped the influence of rising costs, although
it still is able to show reasonable figures :
Expenses Compared with Total Income.
1905 .. £2l 17 10 p.c. j 1920 ..£l6 8 10 p.c.
1910 . . 20 16 4 „ ] 1921 . . 17 5 1 „
1912 .. 29 14 5 „ j 1922 .. 15 17 1 „
1914 .. 19 19 3 ~ I 1923 .. 15 16 5 „
1916 . . 15 7 0 ~ i 1924 . . 17 10 3 „
1918 . . 15 0 4 „ I 1925 . . 18 2 2 „
1919 .. 16 8 6 „ 1 1926 . . 16 19 1 „
Last year’s reduced figure was not, however,
as good as it looks in that table. On the
assumption that new business costs 10 times
as much as old. the rate, at 100 p.c. (10 p.c.
for renewals), was practically the same as
that, for the previous year, and compares
with 97 p.c. (9.7 p.c.) in 1924 and 95 p.c.
(9.5 p.c.) in 3923. Figures prior to 1918
were affected by the low premium rates which
the Colonial Mutual featured. The office
fell into line when it realised that the aver-
age insurer pays more attention to bonuses
than to premium rates. In plain words, the
average insurer prefers to be over-charged for
his insurance from the start if the result is
big bonuses. Experience shows that it is
not the return of cash he seeks, for in most
cases he takes it out in additional insurance.
Increased earnings from investments have,
of course, assisted the society in its distribu-
tion of bonuses. Last year’s income from
this source was well in excess of that for the
previous year:—
Net Interest on Average Funds.
1905 .. £3 17 11 p.c. I 1921. . . £5 0 5 p.c.
1910 . . 4 3 10,, 1922 . . 5 2 6 „
1915 .. 4 9 11 „ 1923 .. 5 2 11 „
1918 . . 4 13 10 „ 1924 . . 5 1 5 „
1919 .. 4 16 0 „ 1925 . . 5 4 7 „
1920 .. 41? 9 „ 1926 .. 5 7 0 „
It is a pretty good rate considering the
amount of funds in gilt-edged securities. The
co. has written down all its Government
stocks bearing low interest to figures which
make their return equivalent to 5 p.c.
p.a., and the surplus realised on the sale of
written-down holdings is being used to
strengthen the position of other investments.
Actuary-secretary Pullar found that there
was a surplus of £440,356 in excess of policy
liabilities—future earnings are assumed on
a basis of 34 p.c. throughout—and bonuses
were declared on a higher scale than has
hitherto been paid; £3t)7.806 was distributed,
providing reversionary bonuses amounting to
£520,000, and the society continued its prac-
tice of paying the premiums on very old poli-
cies. In other words, the society doesn’t
penalise a policy-holder for living greatly
beyond, his expectation of life.
Industrial made further progress:—
Industrial Department.
Income. Claims. Expenses. Funds.
1915 ..£104,807 £18,809 £48,735 £56,530
1916 .. 121,308 15.616 51,245 110,977
1917 . . 138,458 21,530 48,284 179,621
1918 .. 155,253 20,158 50.595 264.121
1919 . . 174,605 20,096 57,405 361,225
1920 ~ 211,184 14,156 65,030 493.224
1921 . . 225.847 27,848 76,585 614,638
1922 .. 251,453 43.962 77,718 744,410
1923 . . 297,983 61,912 106,608 873,873
1924 . . 340,929 79,436 128,337 1,007,029
1925 . . 390,572 93,834 143,016 } , , r. 9 r,
Superannuation Fund, £6500.. f ’
1920 .. 448,495 133,349 155,139 1 ,
Superannuation Fund, £650 .. ( ’ ' ’
Nowadays the Colonial Mutual pays a lot of
attention to this class of business. It claims
to be the pioneer in the field with a non-forfeit-
ure provision in policies. Also it keeps a squad
of trained nurses busy and finds that this
activity pays well, in goodwill perhaps more
than anything else. Bonuses are paid on
Industrial policies. £56,659 of last year’s sur-
plus of £90,295 being appropriated to provide
policy-additions amounting to more than
£86,700. The increase in the department's
funds was a record. But expenses ate up 42
p.c. of the premiums, which shows how fool-
ish it is for people to take this class of policy
if they can possibly manage one of the Ordi-
nary type.
The Accident denartment did its bit: —
Accident Department.
Added to
Income. Claims. Expenses. Funds.
1915 . . £12,250 £3,480 £5,978 £2,792
1916 . . 13,238 4,275 6,110 2,853
1917 .. 13,550 4,451 6,438 '2,661
1918 . . 13,971 4,578 6,498 2,895
1919 . . 15,917 6,045 . 7,063 2,809
1920 . . 17,620 6,231 8,174 3,215
1921 .. 18,817 5,193 9,215 4,409
1922 . . 18,575 6,774 8,641 3,160
1923 . . 21,380 5,981 10,739 4,660
1924 . . 27,290 7,599 14,329 5,362
1925 .. 31,588 9,923 15,821 [ r
Superannuation Fund, £5OO . . )
1926 .. 37,994 10,444 17,008 ) in iq9
Superannuation Fund, £5O .. j ’ "
The Colonial Mutual was the first to pay
bonuses on accident policies, but this does not
appear to have brought very much business.
However, the department is in a solid posi-
tion, and besides the reserve for unexpired
risks there is a general reserve of £27,837.
Total funds at December 31 were in the
following form: —
1915. 1920. 1925. 1926.
Public securities
and debentures 26.8 p.c. 63.5 p.c. 59.3 p.c. 52.8 p.c.
Mortgages .. 34.9 „ 13.4 „ 17.6 „ 21.1 „
Freeholds, etc.. . 20.4 „ 12.6 ~ 11.3 ~ 14.5 ~
Cash and deposits 6.3 ~ 1.6 ~ 2,1 ~ 1.8 ~
Other assets .. 11.6 „ 8.9 „ 9.7 „ 9.8 „
The disposition of the society’s assets has
been changed materially over the period
covered. In earlier years almost half total
funds was in mortgages, and only a small
amount in public securities. In the interven-
ing period the tendency in the case of all
insurance offices of standing has been towards
gilt-edged stocks, though of very recent years
the society has been purchasing premises be-
fitting “the dignity and prestige” of a great
Life office, and its headquarters and chief
branch buildings are amongst the most pala-
tial in the capital cities. In 1922 it pur-
chased the Equitable building in Melbourne.
Last year it erected an imposing block in
Johannesburg, S. Africa, and purchased the
Mutual Life of New York building in Martin-
place, Sydney, from the Mercantile Insurance
Co. for £250,000; it intends adding four
storeys to that solid structure. In addition
the society is building, and has built, offices
in various country centres. Although the
properties now represent a substantial pro-
portion of total funds, the buildings are
mostly excellent letting propositions. Mort-
gages are increasing and probably will go on
increasing as the banks turn more and more
to the financing of trade and industry, but
the percentage is still within reason.
The Primary Producers Bank of Aus-
tralia, Ltd.—Subscribed capital at the end
of the year was £2,452.866. an increase of
£92,650. Paid capital moved from £364,143
to £413,848. Shares are £5 paid to £l,
issued at a premium of £1 which is called
with the first pound of capital. Premiums
go into a premium reserve. On this occasion
the reserve disclosed a reduction of £3719.
It may be assumed, then, that so much of
the premium as was collected in the 12
months on the 92,650 new shares issued,
plus £3719, went in share-selling, establish-
ment and development charges; the premium
was imposed to meet such charges, thus
freeing revenue from that crippling factor.
The plan has its merits; indeed, the con-
tinued existence of the P.P., divested of that
assistance, and in view of the attraction of
the great banks, is inconceivable. Thus far
apparently £335.218 has been expended on
establishment and development, and in the
face of that expenditure the £12,895 which
represents profits accumulated to date is
insignificant. Still no stones should be flung
at it on that account; a new trading bank
without powerful connections cannot reason-
ably be expected to show a profit for a year
or two. The Primary Producers faced a big
job; but it has been favored with some
enthusiastic support; the seasons have
smiled on its progress; the prosperity based
on rich seasons and remarkable prices has
been added to by an uninterrupted, lavish
expenditure of loan money.
Last year’s experience nevt 'theless sug-
gests that development charges may pos-
sibly exceed the amount won from share
premiums. The management has decided
that £335,218 could fairly be charged against
development thus far, but no hint is given
as to the basis on which the figure has
been arrived at. If development charges
have been under-estimated, ordinary banking-
profits may have been greater: over-estima-
tion might mean that actually there has
been a loss. On this point one can only
say that present general-manager Moffatt
came to the P.P. with a good Queensland
reputation as a conservative banker. The
co. appears to have reduced the total number
of its branches and agencies during the
year, so that the continued absorption of
money in development may now ease off.
Widespread share-selling activity doubtless
has forced it to establish some outposts
where the return could not be other than
thin, but it seems unlikely that the progress
of the institution will be allowed to suffer
because of that preliminary gesture.
The accounts disclose the inevitable han-
dicaps :
1925. 1926. 1927.
n & n
Subscribed capital .. 2,090,041 2,360,216 2,452,866
Paid capital . . . . 268,759 364,143 413,848
Premium reserve . . 79,603 82,349 78,630
Deposits . . . . 937,369 1,362,232 1,551,283
Bills payable, etc. .. 138,665 36,550 64,903
Coin and notes . . 35,958 44,777 40,616
Money at short call .. 227,100 215,750 289,000
Balances due by other
banks .. . . 181,726 202,593 118,498
Commonwealth bonds 55,936 125,227 135,951
Remittances in transit 170,020 68,128 133,838
Advances, etc. .. 750,401 1,183,468 1,388,734
Furniture and fittings 7,353 13,022 14,923
1 leposits were thus £189,050 greater, and
despite the insistent demand for accommoda-
tion, more particularly in the country areas,
advances were increased by only £205,266.
There is, of course, a definite limitation on
the accommodations which the Primary Pro-
ducers can extend to its clients. The. neces-
sity to keep a substantial proportion of
its funds liquid is one restriction, and the
fact that it cannot hope to raise capital in
big licks is another. Liquids at the end
of last year amounted to 44.4 p.c. of out-
side liabilities compared with 46.9 p.c. at the
previous balance; and only £8 4s. of outside
money was held for each £1 of the bank’s
own funds. Both figures are good.
At February 28 depositors and other credi-
tors could see 265. 3d. for every £1 owed
them, and shareholders could see 245. sd. for
each 20s. of paid capital (not including the
premium). On the 490,573 shares which pre-
sumably had been issued £76,725 was due in
calls. Divs., of course, are. nowhere in sight;
shareholders will have to be content for some
time to come with the interest they receive
as depositors—2 p.c. on current balances.
Progress is none the worse for being slow,
and if the lean years will remain in the back-
ground long enough and its friends stick to
ir. sane management will set the P.P. on its
feet.
Commonwealth Traders Insurance
Co., Ltd. —Net premium income for the 12
months amounted to £94,239. More than
half of it —£48,220 —was paid out in claims.
And yet the co.’s underwriting experience
for the 12 months was more fortunate than
that of some of its competitors: “bush-fires
and the abnormal number of city and other
fires in N. S. Wales” are blamed. Formed
two years ago. the Commonwealth Traders
amalgamated the fire, accident and marine
departments of the Commonwealth General
Insurance Corporation and the excellently-
managed little Australian Traders. Its
underwriting experience in its first 12
months was cheering, losses being only 36
p.c. of net premium income compared with
the 50 p.c. and more of other offices in that
year. Expenses for the period, however, were
heavy at £23,535. Last year it showed de-
cided improvement in that respect; on almost
double the business, total outgo was £31.105
—far from light but within the bounds of
reason. Even better than that is desirable,
but the reduction indicates that the manage-
ment—two of the Traders’ Carpenters are
on the board —is getting to grips with the
necessities of the case. The balance-sheet
shows £30,000 down for goodwill and £6440
for establishment and preliminary expenses.
In addition to the net premium income of
£94,239, £3253 was won from investment,
etc. Deducting outgo and adding £3Bl from
the first term, there was available a net
£18,548. Of this, £16,000 was carried to
reserves, making them £25,000, and £1440
was written off establishment; £llO7 went
forward. Reserves were much under the 40
p.c. usually considered necessary to cover
unexpired risks. And the balance-sheet does
not brighten the picture. Assets at March
31 totalled £133,884. They were in this
form:—
Cash .. .. £1,549
Government securities and deposits .. .. 16,919
Secured loans .. . . .. .. .. 2,547
Book debts less £250 reserve .. 22,705
OfP.ce and field equipment less depreciation 1,602
Shares in other cos. at cost . . 49,121
Goodwill . . . . - . • • ■ ■ 33,000
Establishment and preliminaries . . .. 6,440
Against that lot were liabilities amounting
to £26.548, consisting of deposits £5OOO.
sundry creditors £7792, and outstanding
claims £13,756. Allowing for reserves and
the appropriations, there was still £11,893
of capital unrepresented by tangible assets.
Moreover, £49,121 “shares in other cos."
includes a holding in Commonwealth General
Insurance, which has no immediate and a
very vague future value. As against that
the Australian Traders is a solid proposition
which continues to expand steadily. Last
year it gave 19 p.c. to the parent, and there
seems every likelihood of a substantial div.
being a regular contribution.
The Commonwealth Traders has certainly
pulled things together in its second year, but
it needs to do much better if it is to pro-
gress quickly to a sound basis. Economy
and efficiency in management it must have,
and there must be careful selection of risks.
Last year’s results suggest that it is on the
right road. During the term the fire, acci-
dent and marine business of the Empire Life
and General was purchased, and IV. 11. Bean.
Ltd., insurance brokers, of Sydney and Mel-
bourne, took over under arrangement the
managing agency of the Southern Cross
Marine Insurance, which the Commonwealth
Traders controls. Now a fair load of
rubbish in the accounts calls for attention.
When that has been cleared out and suf-
ficient put aside as protection for unexpired
risks, with a bit to spare for contingencies,
attention may be spared for shareholders.
* * * *
Rothwell’s, Ltd., outfitters (Brisbane) :
To
Jan., Loss. Dividends. Reserves. Reserves.
1917.. £344 Prefs. = £350 £12,478
Profit.
1918.. 4415 8 p.c. = 3200 1215 13,693
1919.. 4182 8 „ ~ 3200 982 14,675
1920.. 5302 8 ~ ~ 3200 2102 16,777
Reserves cap italised, £lO,OOO .. 6,777
1921 . . 6261 8 p.c. = 3983 2278 9,055
1922.. 1978 6 „ „ 3650 7,383
1923.. 4230 6 „ 3650 580 7,963
Loss.
1924.. 2927 Nil 5,036
Profit.
1925.. 3207 * 2650 557 5,593
All shares.
1926.. 5160 7 p.c. = 4200 960 6,553
1927.. 7101 91,, „ 5550 1611 8,164
* 7 p.c. on Ist prefs. (accrued and current);
6 p.c. on 2nd prefs. ; 3 p.c. on ords.
Rothwell’s has changed its character and
has now become almost entirely an invest-
ment co. The persistently thin return- —the
capitalisation in 1920 was more liberal than
wise—moved the co. to limitation of trading
in 1925; several departments were closed, its
Edward-street freehold was altered for letting
purposes, and the. factory transferred to less
valuable quarters. There was a continuance
of that policy last year, when the co. sold
the balance of its business, with the excep-
tion of the regalia department, to a concern
styled Rothwell’s Outfitting, Ltd., which con-
sists chiefly of the co.’s old employees. Rotli-
well’s will draw a rental from the portion
of the premises occupied by the new co.
These movements have brought changes in
balance-sheet figures:—
1924. 1925. 1926. 1927.
Capital .. . . £60,000 £60,000 £60,000 £60,000
Mortgage . . .. 9,500 9,500 7,600
Sundry creditors.. 4,122 5,801 2.281 646
Freeholds .. .. 24,283 39,806 40,334 40,885
Plant, etc. .. 2,775 2,937 2,843 960
Stock .. . . 30,963 22,358 17,251 3,610
Sundry debtors . . 19,210 17,375 15,599 12,871
Cash,' etc. .. 1,427 1,067 . 6,206 17,901
The two properties are now unencumbered,
and stocks, book debts (which include the
amount owing by the new co.) and fixtures
are materially smaller. The liquid position
has improved, of course, and the question
of refunding to shareholders portion of their
capital is under consideration. Gross profit
was struck after provision had been made
for bad and doubtful debts and deprecia-
tion. but £lOOO was set aside as a reserve
against book debts which were not disposed
of to the new co.


ST. HOGAN AND THE DRAGONS.
"While Vic. Premier Hogan has been handing out jobs to Melbourne’s perennial unemployed, the N.S.W. coal trouble has thrown many hundreds of unionists
out of work.”
ST. HOGAN: “Ho, varlets of the press! Hurry up!—something tells me the picture will be spoilt if you don’t.”


DON’T LOSE MONEY-
MAKE IT!
The
“WildCat’ Monthly"
Enlarged and Improved.
JUNE NUMBER NOW ON SALE.
Invaluable to Every Share-dealer.
SINGLE COPY, 2/-
PER ANNUM, 22/6.
Principal Newsagents,
or
“The Bulletin” Offices,
Sydney or Melbourne.
We stock -f GF + Malleable Fittings to suit
every requirement, and as there are over 7500
varieties to choose from, we can accommodate any
trade. For water, steam or gas. Will not split or
crack, and are correct in every detail. Obtainable
fiom William Adams & Co., Ltd., Sole Agents,
Sydney, Newcastle, Melbourne, Brisbane, Adelaide,
Perth. — Advt.
* ❖ ❖ *
Whether for pressure pipe lines or gravitation
schemes—Pioneer Wood Pipe is unexcelled. It is easy
to lay—can be shifted from place to place with little
delay or expense, and is practically indestructible
whether buried or exposed to the weather. It cannot
rust, corrode nor tuberculate, is immune from frosts
and electrolysis, and actually increases in efficiency
the more it is used. Send for our information booklet.
Free on request. Australian Wood Pipe Co., Ltd.,
Burns Bay Road, Lane Cove, N.S.W. (Ferry to Fig-
tree) ; and at Footscray, Yic. — Advt.
* * * *
WIRE ROPES—AUSTRALIAN MADE—Prices and
particulars from Bullivants’ Australian Co., Ltd.,
331-333 Kent Street, Sydney; B. K. Morton Pro-
prietary, Ltd., 85 Clarence Street, Sydney; J. R.
Reid and Sons, 401-403 Kent Street, Sydney, Success-
fully used all over the Commonwealth for all pur-
poses.— Advt.
* * * *
Inventors. —Have you an idea worth patenting?
Griffith & Hassel, Patent Attorney, 77 Castlereagh
Street, Sydney, obtain Commonwealth and foreign
patents.— Advt.
:js He H* $
IDEAS —Commonwealth and Foreign Patents
obtained. Codmson & Co., 483 Collins Street, Mel-
bourne, and Adelaide. Thirty yea is’ practice. Write
us for Inventors' Guide. — Advt.
$ * * Sfc
If you are a producer of ores, mattes, metals and
metalliferous residues of any kind, Burkard and
Co., Ltd., 26-30 Bridge Street, Sydney, are buyers
for U.K., Continent of Europe and U.S.A. smelters,
and will pay you the highest prices and give you
best terms. Advances made against ore—and market
information, prices, assays at your disposal. Send
samples and particulars.— Advt.
* * * 4:
Leplastriers’ Concrete Mixers —of all necessary
sizes—are designed and manufactured in Australia by
expert engineers. Apply Goldsbrough House, Sydney;
Collins House, Melbourne; 164 Edward Street, Bris-
bane : or 21 Morphett Street, Adelaide.— Advt.
ThePadfic Cable Board
BEST ROUTE TO GREAT BRITAIN,
CANADA. NEW ZEALAND, etc.
TARIFF PER WORD “VIA PACIFIC.”
Ordi- Daily Daily Letter
nary. Deferred. Telegram.
GREAT ) 2/- 1/- 9d. (minimum
BRITAIN ( 15/-, 20 words)'
\Veek end Vsd. (minimum charge 12/G, 20 words)
FRANCE 2/7 1/3* Nil
HOLLAND
BELGIUM
GERMANY
SWITZERLAND
2/6 1/3
Nil
CANADA . . 1/2 9£d. 7d. (minimum
11/8. 20 words)
Week-end 5Jd. (minimum charge'9/7,20 words)
U.S.A. 2/4 to 1/2 to Nil
2/8 2/4
NEW
ZEALAND.. 4jd.
f N.Z. Night Letter
I Rate minimum charge
| 3/- for 20 words and
l 2d. per word thereafter.
THE PACIFIC CABLE BOARD,
261 Ceorge Street, and 55 Liverpool Street,
Sydney.
Tel. City 1346 and 87784.
Collins House, Collins Street, Melbourne.
Tel. Central 2084.
' I ’HE Shareholders of Coogee
Ocean Pier Company,
Limited, and the investing pub-
lic are informed that the issue
of Preference and Ordinary
shares now available for sub-
cription will be closed at 12
o’clock noon on Tuesday,
June 28, 1927.
By Order of the Board,
C. H. ROLLESTON,
Secretary.
r
&
YG
3 o QMRJkJ? on
FINEST DRY GIN
& old tom
Swift & Company Ltd.. Atiwlralasian Agents. 26 30 Clarence St., Sydney
è
WHO IS THE EXECUTOR OF YOUR WILL?
That he may maladminister the Funds? Or your Estate may suffer losses through his neglect o
CAN BE GUARDED AGAINST BY APPOINTING AS YOUR EXECUTOR
PERPETUAL TRUSTEE COMPANY (LIMITED)
OF 33-39 HUNTER STREET, SYDNEY,
which offers undoubted security, combined with Expert Administration.
CAPITAL AND RESERVES.
Subscribed Capital . . ■ • • • • • • •
Uncalled Capital s^’XXa
Perpetual Deposit with Government insnno
Trus?Fumls V Now U Under the Company’s Control Exceed
Write or Cell .or Booklet. Monaging Director ; R. CopU^Utkkndge.
The Coogee Pier Co. (Sydney) announces
the closing of its share list on June 28. It
has had a hard fight, mainly because Aus-
tralians had no experience of promenade
piers and did not believe that any open-
ocean structure of the kind could stand
the angry knocks of the Pacific. However,
the 400-odd feet then completed stood up
to Sydney's Easter cyclone, and previous
opinions on the subject had to be modified.
The co. itself lias been a great battler, and
that has won the project still more friends.
❖ Hs ❖ ❖
In its investigation of the appeal of the
goldmining industry for assistance the Gepp
Commission dug out an interesting item
which doesn’t figure in the report. The
Westralian Government had granted a re-
bate of £45,000 p.a. for the past three years
on the water supplied to the English cos.
at Ivalgoorlie. A glance at the divs. paid
by the cos. will show how they expressed
their appreciation. Golden Horseshoe paid
£BO,OOO in divs. in 1924 —and then closed
down. The Commission’s contention is that
if the cos. are permitted to muddle along
individually, any Government relief provided
will merely be used to swell final divs. and
the mines will then fade out. If they amal-
gamate, with consequent greater efficiency,
the life of the field should be prolonged;
and the Commission, as stated last week,
would be prepared to recommend to the
Federal Government that financial assistance
be given with proper safeguards. At present
the cos. are so jealous of one another that
one will follow up a lode to the border-
line and keep information as to its where-
abouts from rival cos. which are groping
expensively on the other side.
* * * *
Twelve months ago, unimpressed by talk
about a great open-cut, The Bulletin hinted
that Mt. Morgan might turn to a realisation
of its considerable assets as the only way
of making a .good ending. After the disas-
trous fire of a couple of years ago the direc-
tors could see only one hope of continuing
operations. That was open-cut mining with
power-shovels. An expert in this method,
E. E. Barker, was brought from America.
After exhaustive examination he returned to
the States to consult other leading authori-
ties before issuing his final report. A sum-
mary of this, just issued, indicates that the
directors will have no alternative but to
ring down the curtain. Barker states that
the problems before him were whether open-
cut working could be adapted to Mt. Morgan
and whether the ore available would war-
rant the outlay required. He thinks the
ore obtainable for power-shovel operations,
after deducting the portion that cannot be
recovered, is too small in quantity and too
low-grade in value to warrant the under-
taking. Only 74 per cent, of the eight mil-
lion tons of known ore could be reclaimed,
and the best °rade of material is covered
with the greatest depth of overburden.
Shovel-mining, by diluting the ore with
waste material, would further lower its
value. The net operating loss under such
a system would be Is. 8.649 d. per ton, apart
from plant depreciation costs. No notice
was taken of possible values in the over-
burden, under instructions. The directors
are calling a special general meeting of the
shareholders, to consider the position. There
is a considerable tonnage of ore, with cal-
cines and other products on hand which are
being treated in the reverberatory furnace.
There is, too, a limited tonnage of ore in
the mine carrying enough gold to justify
treatment in the furnace. This is to be
recovered and treated —a run of perhaps
three or four months. The directors con-
sider realisation will return shareholders
more than the market value of the shares.
The fact that the Broken Hill Prop,
turned to open-cut work or quarrying after
its first big fire, and practised it for a good
many years, during which big dividends were
paid, has misled lots of people. In that
case the co. knew that it would have to
follow its ore down 1000 feet or there-
abouts, and the overburden was too great on
the partly destroyed timber. It was this
consideration which weighed most largely
with the Broken Hill Prop.—the removal of
the crushing burden on the weakened timbers
underneath.
* * * *
Palmer River Gold Co. is a N.Q. concern
floated to work an area in the one-time
Eldorado of the Palmer Valley, behind Cook-
town. A recent report outlines an ambitious
sluicing and dredging programme, and if
values are anywhere near the estimates, gold-
mining on the almost abandoned field will
have a second time on earth. The original
20.000 eontrib. £1 shares are paid to 10s.
Early in the year 22,000 10 p.c. pref. shares
were put on the market, 12,000 being taken
up. These are paid to Ss. and the remaining
10,000 will be offered shortly; the proceeds
to go to the purchase of a hydraulic plant
to tackle the co.’s sluicing areas. The dredge
is now being railed from Cooktown to the
Laura, and motor transport, already con-
tracted for, will convey the sections the last
90 miles to the ground. Ruwolfs, of Rich-
mond (Vic.), are building a steel pontoon
for £5300, to be finished by the end of June.
Bores have, it is claimed, proved the dredg-
ing area to have 3,484,000 c.y. of gravel,
worth Is. Id. to the yard, and valued at
£188,716, with some bores giving 3s. 4d. to
4s. 2d. to the c.y. Gold dredging is some-
thing new in North Queensland, and the co.
deserves success for its pluck. The Palmer
Valley, since its alluvial heyday, has been
the graveyard of many ambitious schemes,
mostly reefing, and its inaccessibility has
always been a handicap. Modern transport
has lightened that burden, and the dredging
venture may change the long run of ill-luck.
* * * *
A few heroic Charters Towers people have
clung to the Sardine North, Kangaroo llills
(N.Q.), for years past, but have not struck
anything payable. After prospecting their
own lode—it was a dud—they have gone
for the continuation of the Sardine. They
have just completed 340 feet of driving
through country, and in the last few feet
struck a crushed zone which is believed to
be the Sardine. This is carrying a Gin. vein
testing for 2 p.c. concentrates. They are
going right through the crush before stop-
ping the tunnel.
Tin-dredging propositions are becoming
quite a feature of that section of North
Queensland which comprises Herberton,
Almaden and Irvinebank. Tin has been
chased thereabout for many a day with box
and dish and hydraulic nozzle, but the dredge
is yet to come. Most of the people inter-
ested so far are Melbourne men. One syndi-
cate has taken up two leases, the Endeavor
and Endeavor Extended, with a four-mile
frontage on Nettle Creek, an affluent of the
Herbert. Applications have been lodged to
take water from the Herbert River at its
junction with the Wild and Millstreain, and
to dam the latter above the falls.. The dam,
which is to hold a hundred million gallons,
is to be used for generating electric power
for the dredge and subsidiary plants.
* * * *
“Prospector” : The arguments of “Gouger”
(B. 19/5/’27) against the “mother reef”
theory are far from convincing. How would
he, for instance, reconcile the occurrence
of rich alluvial and reef cheek by jowl at
Gympie? It was the alluvial there that
caused the surrounding ridges to be pros-
pected for gold, and the results kept Gympie
going for many years after the alluvial was
done. Gold has been followed down to
2000 feet there, and assuredly the adjacent
alluvial came from the denuded tops of
those same reefs. I suspect “Gouger” of
being influenced by the fact that there have
been fine alluvial fields where the most
religious prospecting has not revealed gold
reefs. But gold isn’t always heavily con-
centrated in narrow channels and may be
widely distributed through a mineralised for-
mation where individual occurrences escape
the prospector’s eye. Yet the wearing-down
process may concentrate this sparsely-occur-
ring metal in narrow channels. I turn to
tin to illustrate my argument. In the upper
reaches of the Severn River, around Stan-
thorpe, there lias never been a payable tin
lode worked; but the alluvials have proved
remarkably rich. Certain types of the gran-
ite and greisen have proved to carry low
tin values through large masses. This must
be the source of the alluvial tin and not
former rich reefs which have been worn
down to their roots.
* * * *
A. Volkman, of Lawn Hills (N.Q.),
recently forwarded a 37-ton parcel of silver-
lead ore from that centre to Townsville. This
is what he experienced :
Wharfage and harbor dues amounted to 10s. a ton,
agency 2s. 6d., against 4s. 6d. a ton at Cairns and
Is. 6d. agency; and Cairns includes loading into
railway trucks for conveyance to Chillagoe. The
daddy of all was the wharfies’ fees for rebagging 67
bags (a little over lend, each) and sewing—£7
17s. 6d.! There were 200 bags with small holes or
otherwise damaged. These were slipped into second-
hand cement-bags and sewn up; costs £9 155.!
The watersiders compel the employment of six men,
though the job may be only a half-hour’s work for
one man. Think of it: six men took over 7 hours
(at 3s. 4d. an hour) to do 67 bags! Costs at the
mine are ss. to 6s. a ton (about 17 bags to the
ton) to bag and sew, and it has to be napped up.
The second item —placing the 200 bags into the
larger cement bags—was an easy day’s work for two
men. This is what we have to put up with.
* # ❖ $
Brisbane received, without a tremor, a
report from the driller of an artesian-well
out beyond Roma of the occurrence of traces
of petroleum in the sludge at a depth of
2500 ft. Geologist L. C. Ball has gone out
to take samples. The department is con-
sidering the feasibility of offering a reward
to drillers out west in the supposed oil
belt for reports of oil occurrences in artesian
bores. An avalanche may be expected in
this event, but even if vital indications only
reach 1 p.c. of those reported it would be
worth while. There are many well-authenti-
cated occurrences of paraffin and liquid
petroleum in these bores, satisfying the cog-
noscenti that oil, if it is not now present
in commercial quantities, has undoubtedly
existed there. This recalls Cunningham
Craig’s dictum of a generation ago that
Western Queensland was an inspissated oil-
field.
* * * *
The old Commodore Vanderbilt copper-mine
near Lake George (N.S.W.) has once more
bobbed up, this time as a lead-zinc property.
Scrip in the old co. sold in thousands on
the Melbourne Stock Exchange in 1890 up
to 155., when the show was being boomed
as the peer of Mount Morgan. Copper
values began to grow less —-notwithstanding
the alleged insertion of an occasional ingot
of smelted copper—and the London co. closed
down because the ore was changing to com-
plex lead and zinc. In those days the flota-
tion process for zinc recovery was not known.
Now the National Mining Corporation of
London has taken an option with a view
to applying modern methods of treating 500
tons a day. So far, 600,000 tons of ore,
assaying about 7 p.c. lead, 11 to IS p.c. zinc
and some gold, silver and copper, has been
more or less proved. The lode is 20 to 30ft.
wide for 1600 ft. north and there is 1000 ft.
south. If the drill proves the central
section of the lode to carry ore all the way,
then 1400 ft. must be added to the length,
making the total 4000 ft.
* * * *
New Long Tunnel, Wallialla (Vic.), is
still battling. Last half-year £1435 was
added to the p. and 1. debit, making it
£13,275. Main tunnel was extended 157 ft.
to 1678 ft. Coming back to 1456 ft. and
driving north for 30ft., a reef 3ft. wide
carrying gold was struck which assayed
7dwt. sgr. per ton. So thankful are they
for small mercies that the manager says
this was an encouraging development worth
driving 200 ft. to prove. The shareholders
are a hardy lot.
❖ * *
Golden Lily, Aberfeldy (Vic,), had a
rough spin during its last financial half-
year. The loss was £1752 and the total
debit is now £14,727. A total of 1778 tons
was crushed for 5190 z. or under 6dwt. From
the end of January 946 tons were put
through for 1970 z., or per ton. But
the manager believes another 70 to 100 feec
in the north level will put them on better
stone.
❖ ❖ :J:
Westralian Manganese Co. is up and do-
ing. Its chairman. Bill Hedges, who knows
as much as anyone about railway construc-
tion, is preparing to lay a light line from
Meekatharra to the co.’s deposits 85 miles
away, and reckons to do a mile a day.
Hedges says that inquiries for manganese are
coming from all quarters and that the pro-
vision of loading facilities at the port of
shipment, Geraldton, is all that is required
for the co. to do well from the start.
* * * *
Brilliant shareholders deserve all the*
reward they may win from the Gnow’s Nest
mine, Yalgoo (W.A.), into which they have
been pouring calls. The present sink of
shaft to 480 ft. level should be completed
in four weeks, and the necessary main cross-
cut should disclose the reef about six weeks
later. Shareholders then expect satisfactory
results. The “Wild Cat” wishes them the best
of luck, but isn’t otherwise enthusiastic.
ifc ❖ H*
During the early days of W.A. mining
metallurgist Howe considered he could obtain
a satisfactory extraction from Wiluna ores
by adding salt to the roast and volatilising
the gold content. He was successful to that
point, but lie could get no further through
not being able to precipitate the gold in his
flues. The recently-installed oil-flotation
process was expected to achieve better results,
although, after all, flotation is simply a sub-
stitute for mechanical concentration; and
when the roasting stage is reached, any diffi-
culties presented by the product of one
method will be presented by the product of
the other. A late official report from Wiluna
states that the flotation process is not work-
ing satisfactorily, the gold extraction
obtained being only 80 per cent. Salt water
was being used. The report is not clear as
to whether this percentage was obtained by
flotation only or by flotation and subsequent
roasting. If the latter, then it appears the
salt content of the water caused volatilisa-
tion. If, on the other hand, the report
means the recovery was obtained by flotation
only, then the prospects may be worse, as,
in that event, any possible roasting difficul-
ties have still to be overcome.
;jc
Kundang’s return for May was only 17
tons. Since the beginning of the year the
dredge has averaged only 51,000 yards for
less than 14 tons per month, with values
just over Boz. This is a long way from
the estimate of 120,000 c.y. and a 40Aon
recovery per month. The market at 31s.
is weak. Kamunting, with 102 tons, and
Malim Nawar South, with 60 tons, gave good
returns. It swung, with 35 tons from the
dredge and 45 from the sluicing plant, also
did well; but all of them will have to go
their hardest to justify present share prices.
Thabawleik’s return of 43 tons showed a
much-needed improvement. Malim Nawar s
15 tons is again a disappointment. Averages
for this sliow for tlio last five months have
been 78,000 yards for a recovery of under
15 tons. Values have averaged only .42
per c.y. But Hie co. claims that it is work-
ing off a patch of poor ground.
Dear Bulletin, —Geophysical methods of
prospecting, used to discover ore bodies
which do not outcrop, rely on some physical
property of the lode which is different from
the country—magnetism, electrical resistance
or specific gravity. The chief methods are:
(1) Magnetic, for determining the position of
ores by their deflection of a compass or dip needle
from normal;
(2) Seismic, by mapping variations of elasticity
with a seismograph;
(3) Gravimetric, in which differences of specific
gravity are determined with a Torsion Balance;
(4) Electrical —(a) potential, wherein an ore
body’s position is discovered by its deflecting lines
of equal potentiality; and (b) electro-magnetic,
whereby the position of an ore body is shown by
its disturbance of a magnetic field caused electrically.
Of these methods (1) has been frequently
used, but is very limited; (2) is both little
used and understood; (3) has been success-
fully used to determine bedrock of alluvium
deposits, but for lode purposes topography
enters so much into calculations that 13
mathematicians could get a month’s occupa-
tion out of half a dozen readings; (4a) and
(4b) to a lesser extent have been developed
to a very high standard in Sweden under
that country’s Geological Survey,_ and have
mapped a large number of deposits with a
few easily-excused failures. These last two
methods are certainly the most widely appli-
cable. But the application of any of the
methods is a job for a technical man well
acquainted with the geology of mining, which
should be borne in mind by the public, which
will presently be inundated by a crowd of
quacks.—Yours, Alunite.


How much of your
day is Worry?
m
MM
m
Sleep
m
Recreation
Bfc.®
Work
r
EVERY DAY has twenty-
four hours. The richest man has
no more time, the poorest no
less. And all men must divide
their days into three main divi-
sions—Work, Recreation, Sleep.
But there is a fourth division.
In proportion as you get rid of it,
you add to your income, your
standing and your peace of
mind. In proportion as you give
way to it, you find it spreading
like a cancer over the three main
divisions of your time.
Its name is Worry.
Effective work cannot be done
by men whose minds are wander-
ing in futile concerns about their
bills, their business positions,
their futures. No man can
benefit from his round of golf
or his evening at home with a
book if he is really far away
fearing a pressing creditor or to-
morrow’s work.
And if worry follows you to
bed at night—then, indeed, you
have little chance for happiness
or even physical health.
There is a way out. There is
an outside influence ready to help
you reduce the hours or minutes
that worry steals away from you.
There is an outside influence
that has made the lives of
250,000 other men happier as
well as more prosperous.
Its name is the Alexander
Hamilton Institute.
You have read about it as a
training for ambitious men.
Think of it now in another way
—think of it as an agency that
will banish the needless worry
from your days.
If it is more income you need
—the Alexander Hamilton Insti-
tute has helped every conscien-
tious subscriber to earn more
money. Some have doubled and
tripled their salaries in one year.
If you need a better, more dig-
nified, more permanent position,
trust the business judgment of
the 32,000 managing directors
who have enrolled.
Here is a curious fact to which
250,000 Institute men can
testify. The very moment you
tear off the coupon at the foot
of this page you will feel the
satisfaction that comes from hav-
ing taken a step forward —a step
that may be a decisive one in
your life.
Tear it off now, and hold it in
your hand for a moment. Say
to yourself:
“If I mail this coupon some-
thing is going to happen; an out-
side influence is going to work in
my behalf. lam going to find
out whether it can do for me
what it has done for so many
others. lam going to mail this
coupon to-day—and receive the
Definite Plan of Business Pro-
gress which it promises.”
Do that one thing NOW !
k
crn
Busin«ss
Alexander Hamilton in-
stitute of Australia, Ltd.,
It Castlereagh Street, Sydney.
Send me the book “Forging Ahead in
Rusiness’’ which I may keep without
S* obligation.
Name
Please write plainly.


Six Solid Silver Ootfee Spoons, 3fin. ion-;,
with black wooden beans at ends of
handles. In Handsome Brown Case, 20/-
SOLID SILVER
COFFEE SPOONS
20/-
These handsome spoons are of English
hall-marked silver, and are amazingly
low in price for such quality. We in-
structed an English manufacturer to
make these spoons in slack times. They
are therefore entirely novel, and beauti-
fully made. Their value at the price is
remarkable.
FAIRFAX & ROBERTS, LTD.,
The Oldest Jewellery House in Sydney, 23 and 25 Hunter Street.
PLAIN FIGTJKES-
-CASH ONLY.
CA
Brisbane
—G
L/ie con/no of
Quo endan cfs
<,DishnPuished
Social Li/e.
• ) ~
TELEGRAMS A CABLES— LENNONS,
TELEPHONE CENT. 5700 (iC
BRISBANE.
lines).
Magnificent Ballroom, Palm
Court, and Lounges at the
disposal of guests and their
friends at all times.
Suites de Luxe —double and single Bedrooms, with Bath-
rooms attached. Hot and cold running water and Electric
Fans in every Bedroom, together with every modern con-
venience for the comfort of guests.
A WOMAN'S
LETTER
SAY
Kayser
SLIPPER HEEL
[?]
STOCKINGSPERSONAL
ITEMS
GLOBE
MEAT EXTRACT
GLOBE BRAND
George H. Tink-
ham, who landed
lately in Sydney
from America,
claims to have fired
fhe first, shot at the
enemy on behalf of
his country when it
entered the war.
Then, as now, he
w T as a TT.S. Con-
gressman, and lie
was visiting an
advanced Italian
field battery on the
Piave front when
the new T s came
through that Am-
erica had thrown
its hat into the
ring. The battery -
commander there
and then asked
Finkham to throw
America’s fi r s t
brick, which he did,
with one of the
battery guns.
G. B. SMITH-
REWSE, British
Resident Com-
missioner in the
New Hebrides.
Dick Pearse, of Ballarat, comrade of
Peter Lalor and Duncan Gillies, passed out
at 92 the other day. Brothers Nicholas and
Geddie came from Cornwall in ’54; Dick
and the other members of the family followed
in ’56. The father, a prominent figure in
old Ballarat, remembered helping to dig
trenches along the Cornish coast at the
time of Waterloo. Dick Pearse went into
business after a spell at gold-digging, and
did well. He was three times Mayor of
Ballarat.
A habitation which has been painted by
many artists will lack a tenant when Joseph
Bradley relinquishes his job as conductor of
Sydney’s Philharmonic. Firholme, Parra-
matta,' was built in 1798 by John Macarthur,
and when Bradley saw the chance of secur-
ing the old place, with its oaks planted to
celebrate Waterloo, he reckoned himself
lucky. He has done his best for the Phil,
but it’s been a losing fight.
Frank Birtles and M. H. Ellis seem to
have got through the worst of their motor
journey from London to Australia. They
reached Quetta last week, and as that pic-
turesque and smellful hole is at the gateway
of India they have left behind areas where
battle, murder and sudden death are most
likely to happen, and can proceed at their
leisure through moderately well-policed
places. Birtles long ago reduced journeying
through the waste places of Australia to a
commonplace, and finds it much easier to
motor than to cycle. Ellis, a Melbourne
pressman, accompanied him on one of his
Australian expeditions.
Walter George Woolnough, who is to leave
his job as Professor of Geology at Sydney
Uni. to report on oil prospects for the Com-
monwealth Government, was born in N.S.W.
51 years ago. Sydney High School and New-
ington College gave him his grounding in
science. He was only 22 when, having taken
his B.Sc., he was named demonstrator in
geology at Sydney Uni.; the year before
he had accompanied Edgeworth David’s expe-
dition to Funafuti. He was a Perth Uni.
prof, for a time, and Brunner, Mond and
Co. then captured him for its scientific staff.
Hogan is Tic.’s thirtieth Premier and his
is the forty-fifth Ministry since the estab-
lishment of responsible government in 1855.
Some Premiers headed more than one Cabi-
net. Of Hogan’s predecessors the seven
above ground are Irvine (Vic. C.J.), Watt,
M.H.R., and Peacock, Bowser, Lawson,
Prendergast and Allan, M’s.L.A. Peacock is
the senior ex-Premier; he had his first term
at the dawn of this century.
Apirana Turupa Ngata, nominated for a
handle in the Birthday List, is a Maori of
the suave, clever, Timi Kara type, and pro-
bably the most trusted counsellor of his
people now that Carroll has gone. A pro-
duct of Canterbury College, he took up law,
and first handled pounce and parchment in
the office of Tlieophilus Cooper, now a Judge.
When the Young Maori party was formed,
the year before Ballance swept the polls and
commenced the long Liberal regime, Ngata
was its organiser. He has represented the
Eastern Maori electorate —II on are votes
separately and sends four members to Wel-
lington—for 22 years, and has practically a
life-tenure of the job. A staunch follower of
Soddon, he had a seat without portfolio in
Ward’s Cabinet for the three years before
the fall. A fine, clear speaker, and an ency-
clopaedia of knowledge of Maori affairs,
Ngata is one of the most popular politicians
in or out of Wellington.
Bookmaker Sol Green stopped laying the
odds the other day to lay the corner-stone
of a new synagogue which the Chosen in
Carlton (Melbourne) are building. Green,
always a liberal giver to Jewish charities,
dipped his hand deep into his pocket when
a congregation which has been 14 years
without a temple decided to build one.
When P. C. Fuller failed to recover from
the shock of a fractured hip, Cooktown
(N.Q.) lost one of its earliest settlers. He
was storekeeping in Cooktown as far back as
1874, and was in the first rush to the
Hodgkinson field. He was on the Palmer,
too, but had no luck on either. Then he
went into the beche-de-mer industry with
Capt. Wakon, whose wife’s tragic death on
lizard Island, where she escaped the spears
of the blacks only to die of exhaustion, led
to the abandonment of the venture. Fuller
then tried farming on the Endeavour River,
leaving off once to try his luck on the Gira
goldfield in Papua. Luck was still out, so
he went back to his fruit-growing and bee-
keeping and prospered.
Mercantile Melbourne is mourning Ran-
dall Alcock. Beginning as a lad in the
employ of James Service and Co., wholesale
merchants, lie wound up as sole owner of the
business. James Service, twice Premier of
Vie., was head of the show when Alcock
joined his staff, and he soon took notice of
the new recruit, eventually making him a
partner. Alcock resisted efforts to induce him
to enter the State Parliament, but lie was
a stalwart in the business world; a good
employer, a staunch friend, philanthropist of
the best sort and a practical supporter of
technical education. Hawthorn, his home
city, borders Kew cemetery, where a mound
has just been heaped over him.
The late Maitland Woods, sometime rector
of St. Mary’s, on Kangaroo Point, Brisbane,
and later of the Quetta Memorial Church,
Thursday Island, was one of the whitest
men who ever opened his mouth to call sinful
soldiers “Dearly beloved.” As senior chap-
lain of the Light Horsemen in Sinai and
Palestine he gained many a friend.
Queenslanders of the A.I.F. are collecting
funds for a memorial, and won’t object to a
throw-in from other States. It was Woods
who preserved the wonderful mosaic tomb of
St. George, uncovered by Australian trench-
diggers at Sliellal in Southern Palestine.
fought the British War Museum for it, and
got it for the Australian collection. He it
was also who wired Base Records at Cairo
saying he had found the tomb of St. George,
and wanted authority to transport it to
Cairo. 8.R., which was short on mythology
but a regular whale for facts, wired back:
“No trace of anyone of that name in A.I.F.
records.”
Charlie Allen, the blind son of Maori-
land’s last-but-one High Commissioner,
reckons that Kip-
ling is the world’s
hardest sub-editor
The great ma n
offered to go
through one o f
All e n’s short
stories and under-
line everything in
it he thought was
wrong. When re-
turned the yarn
was a mass of blue
pencil from top to
bottom. To test his
critic, Allen sent
the story, unaltered,
to 42 papers and
magazines and it
came back from
them all.
F. W. PREECE,
Adelaide’s well-
known book-
seller, who was
elected President
at the annual con-
ference of the
Associated Book-
sellers of Australia
and Maoriland.
Pius XI. filled up the Psalmist's span
recently, lie was born near Milan, where
his brothers are thriving silk merchants. One
of the two hobbies of the Pope can't bo
practised in the VaticanI—it 1 —it is Alpine-climb-
ing, of which he gained something of a
reputation. His other hobby is scientific
research.
Methody Parson Henry Worrall, now in
London, who has just made his second matri-
monial plunge, was in the limelight for an
afternoon and a night nearly 21 years ago.
He was summoned to the Bar of Vic. Legis-
lative Assembly on a complaint that he had
spoken disparagingly of Sam Gillott, Chief
Sec., and, incidentally, of Parliament. Wor-
rall was stationed at Bendigo at the time,
and he had talked about “blood guiltiness" in
respect to the death of a man on a metro-
politan racecourse. Scorching words were
uttered b.v Speaker Frank Madden in admon-
ishing Worrall, and the incident closed.
Margaret Birt, mother of the late Jack
Birt, Labor M.L.A. for Sydney, saw some
sights during her 88 years, which closed the
other day. Visiting America during the Civil
War, she witnessed the blessing of the colors
of the famous 98th Battalion (commanded
by General Thomas Francis Meagher) prior
to tlie Battle of Bull Run. Likewise she
was present at the blessing of the foundation-
stone of the long-since-completed R.C. cath-
edral of New York. Returning to Ireland,
she tarried awhile and then set out for
Australia. Bhc was married in St. Mary’s
Cathedral, Sydney, and went to live in Dar-
linghurst, which was to be represented in
Parliament —it is part of the Sydney elec-
torate—by her son.
Flights from London to Australia are
becoming a popular sort of exploit. The
latest entrant in the field is the Australian
Bert Hinkler, who specialises these days in
minimum-power flying. He flew from Lon-
don to Turin lately, in one hop, with a
“Baby Avro” equipped with a 35-h.p. Greene
motor. For the Australian flight lie will
use a similar-sized Avro with a still smaller
engine—the 4-cyl. 30-li.p. Mark 11. Cirrus.
He’ll follow Cobliam’s route.
After 40 years of ox-persuading in the
devastating climate of N.Q. Bill Riordan laid
the bullock-wliip aside 10 years ago and
settled down in Brisbane. Heath called on
him unexpectedly the other day. One of his
four sons is in the Bananaland Parliament;
another is Queensland State secretary of
the A.W.U., of which the old man was a
foundation-member.
For close on 30 years very little has been
done in the interests of fishes in Maoriland
unless L. F. Ayson, who was born in Otago
72 years ago, took a hand in it. He was
fascinated by a bowl of goldfish in early
childhood, and fins and scales have proved
irresistible to him ever since. Over 40 years
ago he was put in charge of a fish hatchery
at Masterton, and he bred and reared such
a vast number of English trout that Harry
Atkinson made him Chief Inspector of
Fisheries. When Ballancc ousted Atkinson
the following year and the civil-service plums
were reviewed, Ayson’s title to his job was
already far too good for any politician to dis-
turb it. He stayed on till a few weeks ago,
when lie retired, and the Maoriland rivers
teem with trout and salmon, largely because
of his skill as an acelimatisor. One of the
purple patches of his career was a hot and
strong campaign on behalf of the rock oyster,
a creature that had few true friends and
many enemies. Ayson won, and the rock
oyster increases and multiplies in the sanc-
tuaries he established for the silent tribe.
Three of Australia’s loneliest citizens
looked into Sydney last week, on leave after
six months’ service on Willis Island, where
the Commonwealth Government established
a wireless station as a sort of weather obser-
vation post six years ago. The bare rock
is only 400 yards by 200 yards in extent,
and grows nothing, so that tinned foods were
the staple diet of the operators. Seabirds
swarm, and shooting occasionally relieves
the monotony, but meteorologist Radic and
operators Vincent and Inglis are glad to
see their fellow-men again.
Dr. Reg S. Ellery, known to Bulletin
readers as a literary critic, has laid the
foundations of a reputation as a specialist
in the treatment of general paralysis of the
insan-e. The discovery that the germ of
malaria has a beneficial effect on g'.p.i. cases
in the incipient stages is the basis of Ellery’s
treatment, and he has had very promising
results. Ellery is also studying epilepsy, sev-
eral sad eases of which are under his care
at the Suhbury (Vie.) asylum, and he finds
the French preparation “Luminal” the best
sedative yet devised.
“Dunbar”: Allan Cunningham (B.
26/5/’27) discovered the Darling Downs in
1827. The following year he started from
Moreton Bay (as Brisbane was then called)
to try to discover a passage to the dowms
from the coast through the main range,
and passed through the gap which now’ bears
his name on August 25, 1828. The gap
route, however, owing to its steepness was
never used to any great extent. Lieutenant
Gorman, the last of the eight commandants
of the Moreton Ray penal settlement, with
the assistance of the blacks and an escaped
convict, discovered Gorman’s Gap (Hell
Hole), which was used until Spicer's Pass
was found.
Tom Dick, of Port Macquarie (N.S.W.),
drowmed recently, was an oysterman w r hose
hobby was the study of aboriginal customs
and delving into history—he w r as a member
of the N.S.W. Historical Society. lie col-
lected sheaves of information regarding Port
Macquarie in the early times and delivered
lectures on the subject. One of the relics
that came into his possession was the flog-
ging-stool used in the old Port Macquarie
gaol.
Captain DUNN, M.L.A., Deputy-leader oj
the Mutch section of the N.S.W. Par-
liamentary Labor party, but not feeling
at all comfortable.
The “Last Post” has been sounded at
New Plymouth (M.L.) over an old soldier.
James Crone. A Belfast man, he entered
the Royal Irish Constabulary at 18, and in
1871 joined the Royal Horse Artillery. He
attended the same riding-school as Iv. of R..
served under “Bobs” in Afghanistan, and
took part in the relief of Kandahar. Crone
held the reputation of being the strongest
man in the British Army of his day, and
won laurels as a swordsman and rifleshot.
He settled in Fernland in middle-life and
passed out at 84.
AN UP-TO-DATE CHANTY.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The Old Man stands on the upper bridge
And the passengers line the rail.
They’re slacking away our after-spring
And we’re just about to sail
When up from below the firemen rush
With a whoop as they jump ashore,
For they’ve found a quid some miser hid
And they must have one drink more.
Oh, the sea is rough
And there’s time enough
To wait till the weather is fine,
But weather or no
We may stop or go
On the Royal Joliannsen Line.
We’re not like the mugs you read about
Who battled around Cape Horn,
In the teeth of the bitter winter gales
For a wage that a Chow would scorn,
Mere scabs who, as the parsons say,
Went down to the sea in ships
And sancj as they gripped the frozen sails
In their bleeding finger-tips.
But we’ll give her steam
Till the winches scream
And the wharfies shout “All clear !”
For we’re bound away
When the firemen say
They’ve had their fill of beer.
Old shellbacks talk of the good old days
When the captains ran the ships,
And you couldn’t talk back to the bucko
mates
With their pistols on their hips.
Now we sail with skippers so damn polite
They will turn back home again
If cook lias forgotten our ’am an’ eggs.
Or our oilskins let in rain.
Oh, we paint the doors
And polish the floors,
And make all the brasswork shine;
But we don’t work more
Than from ten till four
On the Royal .Tohannsen Line.
N.S.W.
CRIPP’S CLARK.


(( 3un s3 -*t- re 'D 3 mi„
: : • ID
1
t : «<*>*<* ******
A Pillar of
Modem Business
Time-saving, Profit-building
machines.
The Kardex Visible Recording System
solves the problem of record-keeping for
every business. It not only records past
transactions, but renders splendid service
in guiding and directing executives and
managers as to future operations. All vital
information is signalled—visible at a
glance. Kardex renders all other systems
obsolete. It is a revelation!
The Remington Noiseless Typewriter is
the last word in typewriters. It eliminates
the nerve-racking clatter of other
machines, making for much greater office
efficiency. Where work is done quietly it
is done better. The Remington Noiseless
does everything any other machine can do
—except make a noise.
The “Remington Rapid Rotary” Duplica-
tor is the simplest to operate. Any number
of perfect reproductions of typewriting,
handwriting, drawings, sketches, etc., can
be run off at a few minutes’ notice. The
machine automatically inks, paper feeds
and counts. Ask for demonstration. Terms
arranged.
The Monroe Adder-Calculator is the
world’s most popular calculating machine
because it is faster and does not need a
highly-trained operator. Models from £65
—sterling and decimals combined. Try it
on your own work for a week —no obliga-
tion. It will amaze you!
The Sunstrand Junior Adding - Listing
Machine is rendered universally popular
by its simplicity, speed and reliability. It
has only 1 0 keys, and anyone can operate
it rapidly and accurately after a few
minutes’ practice. Prices from £33. 10
years’ guarantee. Free trial.
For Demonstration of any of the above, ring
Chartres Ltd.
Chartres, Ltd 1 ., Sydney Chartres Pty., Ltd., Melbourne.
(Late Stott & Hoare & Chartres, Ltd.). Chartres, Ltd., Adelaide.


The Federal Mutual
Insurance Company of Australia, Limited.
FIRE, MARINE AND ACCIDENT.
Licensed to accept liability under Workmen’s Compensation Act 1926.
AGENTS WANTED.
Head Office: 129 1’itt Street, Sydney.
it. RAWNSLEY MOSS, Managing Director.
Victorian Branch: 360-66 Collins Street, Melbourne.
H. L. CARROLL, Manager.
Queensland Branch: Federal Mutual Chambers, Queen Street, Brisbane.
NORMAN M. MAIR, Manager.
South Australian Branch: 36 Grenfell Street, Adelaide.
E. M. MINOGUE, Manager.
SUPPORT THIS PURELY AUSTRALIAN COMPANY.
R. A. MANZIE, General Manager.
POLISHES—PRESERVES-—PREVENTS CRACKS
BOSTOCK’S Shoe Creams are made in all
principal shades, and especially noted for the
New Shade of Bois-de-Rose, Putty, Sunburn
and Oak.
Price 6d. per tube. Obtainable Everywhere .
®“3i4
BOSTOCKS
♦ Shoe Cream *
ABORIGINALITIES
MADE IN AUSTRALIA
BARNES LINSEED OIL
“D.M.T.N.”: “Wo3’s” description (B.
5/5/’27) agrees generally with wliat I
myself have seen of the birth of the kanga-
roo. But no other account exists of Ma
WHAT IS IT MAKES THE WHOLE
WORLD KIN?
TROOPER: “You're looking worried,
Billy.”
BILLY: “Yes, Boss, an’ mine tinkit
you’d he worry too. Mary bringem
her mother to live longa us.”
having “touched the mite with her paws.”
The roolet, notwithstanding the temporary
claws which make it possible for it to climb
towards the pouch, is only a piece of jelly.
The mother simply licks the fur in front of it
to help its progress. When the mite is
obstructed by a ridge of fur growing the
wrong way the mother has been known to
try to help it along with her paws, but death
has always resulted.
“Simon”: Kangaroo Bill looked in at the
rifle-butts. The long heavy rifles with aper-
ture sights set for variation bewildered him,
as also did the marksmen, braced with the
gunsling, firing from rests. He was invited to
have a few shots and did. “Did y’ get a bull,
Bill?” someone asked him sarcastically.
“No,” Bill drawled, tapping the rifle. “It’s
hard for me to get a bull with a cow like
this.”
* * * - •
“G.8.L.”: The scarlet kurrajong-tree in
my garden (B. 31/3/’27) is not a flame-
tree, as “Max” and “R.PI.McE.” evidently
suppose. I stand by my statement that it is
one of five specimens in N. S. Wales. The
parent tree is growing near Wentworth. An
experienced nurseryman said he had never
before seen one like it, and took the trouble
to graft five cuttings on to ordinary black
kurrajong-stocks. One of these came into
my possession. When it is more fully grown
I shall get a botanist to examine it and
suggest a name.
* !]! *
“Merris”: In the rural districts of S. Aus.
the horse is fated to be numbered with the
great auk. If Mum wants mutton, one of
the boys hops into the ’bus, rounds up the
ration sheep and returns with the kill. No
time is lost, as formerly, in catching a
saddle-horse; while in busy times it is easier
to run super, and seed down to the paddock
on Lizzie than to harness up Dobbin. Trac-
tor sales at which the farmer disposes of his
horses and horse-drawn vehicles are the
order of the day, though the prices obtained
hardly pay expenses. At a sale recently in
(he lower North a rubber-tyred sulky sold,
for two bob, while a buggy and harness in
good condition fetched only 18s. At this
sale 60 wheat-coaxers arrived in cars, one
drove a buggy-and-pair and one came astride
the despised neddie.
❖ * * #
“Pfella”: I struck a Binglii in North
Westralia who, with proper handling, would
have made the fortune of a showman. He
would take seven stones and throw them
up in the air together; each stone would
drop into a separate circle drawn at random.
•By different twists of his wrist when throw-
ing, lie could cause them to fall in a straight
line or in a curve, wave or ring. To be
allowed to keep a tcliillin’, he would toss
the coin up about 30ft. and catch it on the
end of his tongue. I essayed to do the
trick with a 3ft. toss. The attempt cost me
seven and six for a doctor.
* * * *
“Yarragundi”: Can any Abo. fisherman
tell me what becomes of the scales of Murray-
cod when they grow to 601 b. and upwards?
I have handled several big fellows with not
a trace of a scale to be seen. The fins also
seem worn and blunted. Also, what is the
name of a fish I can catch only in creeks
filled from the river, not in the river itself?
They weigh from Mb. to lib. and are long
and graceful. The mouth is more shark-
shaped than in the ordinary river fish, and
they have a pretty mottled skin without
scales. They are very good eating. I have
heard mountain men refer to them as “slith-
eries.”
“Carisbrook, Jun.”; The talk had veered
round to sharks, and what to do if one
were to approach the swimmer. The argu-
x , ,
meat began to wax furious, the disputants
being pretty evenly divided on tlie wisdom
of gouging out its eyes and punching it under
A LITTLE MISUNDERSTANDING.
DAD: “What ye doing there?”
CHOOM: “You told me to wash her rudder
the fin. Finally, Jacky, a mission boy, who
had had some experience as a diver, was
appealed to : “What you do, Jacky, supposem
you see shark come alonga you?” He answered
promptly: “Me make plurry line for dinghy !”
“No, but supposem you no can get alonga
dinghy?” “Baal, no good. Me bin sayem
grace then.”
* * #
“Up North” : I recently visited a camp of
the Small River (Cape
York Peninsula) natives
and found .there a gin
lying on tbe sand very
ill from a death-adder’s
bite. The local witch-
doctor had scarified the
wound and was vigor-
ously rubbing in the gall
of the captured adder.
The woman was well in
two hours. Gall treat-
ment is fairly common
amongst the natives.
Bites from poisonous in-
sects and fish are treated
in the same way. I’ve
known, however, several
cases in which, the
offending adder not hav-
ing been caught, the vic-
tims gave up hope and
with it the ghost. In
parts of India the same
treatment is used.
“Orion”: “Werrimee’s” par. (B. 12/5/’27)
recalls that the subject of their bells never
failed to interest the old-time horse-drivers
and bullockies. I remember one old pilgrim
of the track describing his bell. “You could
hear it, and hear it, till no man could hear
it,” he said; “and then if you listened hard
enough you could hear it again.” A black-
smith at Wellington (N.S.W.) was famed
all over the Western plain country for the
wonderful sound-carrying quality of his bells.
And they were made from old crosscut saws.
:|= * *
“Two Seas” : We were shearing. Outside
in the blazing heat a rouseabout was trying
to force a mob of heavily-woolled hoggets
into the shed. ’Orace showed marked dis-
pleasure. “I’m su-ah that such frightful
language is quite unnecessary,” he protested.
The boss laughed. “I’ll bet you five bob you
can’t get the blighters in without swearing.”
“Done!” said ’Orace. We heard him for a
time mildly remonstrating with the obstinate
brutes. Then the door of the pen opened
and ’Orace carried one in as an encourage-
ment to the others. It up-ended ’Orace in
the doorway as it rushed out. “Tut, tut!”
said ’Orace, brushing the dirt off his clothes.
He then hauled two into tlie pen. Slewing
round as he turned, they met ’Orace dragging
another by the hind leg. Orace and the
three hoggets disappeared in a cloud of dust,
Next W( T heard t l,e sound of muffled blows,
>Q race wag persuading the pets with a waddy.
But woolly 1 hog g ets 0 n a hot day are not
to be hurried that way. The boss pricked
up his ears. “Did you say ‘damn’?” ho
inquired. “I did,” ’Orace howled. “11l
pay the blanky five bob! And I’d give a
quid for the pleasure of flaying the blank-
ards,” he added, wiping the perspiration and
dust from his face.
;J: >!:
“Bad Australian”: Much has been written
about the impenetrability of the jungles of
India, the Amazon Valley and such places,
but I have seen no reference to the horizontal
scrub of the West Coast of Tasmania. It
shoots up like a cane until its own weight
or the winter’s snow bears it down. Then
it throws out fresh shoots along its whole
length, and in due course these also lay over
and sprout; and so on indefinitely. The only
way to get through this mass of yielding
basket-work is to cut a circular hole with a
razor-edged slasher or cane-knife. It is so
compact that in cutting through there is no
need to follow the surface of the ground.
The track is slashed across gullies from
ridge to ridge, and corduroyed with saplings
or “old man” fern where required for pack
teams. A first-class bushman has been known
to take eight hours to cut a hole large enough
to allow a man to pass over a distance of
4h chains. I have seen the jungles of
Ceylon, and worked in those of the Upper
Amazon and North Queensland, but in all
these the lianas, canes and “bush lawyers”
supported by the big timber form a more or
less open network, through which it is pos-
sible, with few exceptions, for a man to push
his way without the aid of a slasher. In
impenetrability there is no comparison
between the tropical jungle and the hori-
zontal one of the West Coast of Tassie.
* * * *
“Prop”: Isn’t the sundowner with corks
strung round his hat a myth? F'or over
30 years I have travelled Eastern Australia.
I started at 18 meeting fats from King
Island at Emu Ray (Tas.) and droving to
the mines at Zeehan. Skipping Victoria, I
have ridden and walked thousands of miles
in N.SAV. and Queensland on to .Carpen-
taria, and must have met the big majority
of their swaggies. I have never had a glimpse
of a hat with cork millinery.
* * * *
“Up Top”: While the Bishop of Carpen-
taria was on a trip to the new mission-
station at Lloyd’s Bay, a “boy” who had
been sent out to work on a cattle-station
returned. “Hullo, Billy,” said the mission-
ary, “why have you come back?” “Oli,’
the abo. explained, “boss he growl alia time,
he tellem me go to Hell outa this. So I
come back longa mission.”
(Continued on page 27.)
MY OLD KNIFE.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Brownies and dampers it has sliced
And pie-crusts hard as a stone;
It’s knife and fork and spoon to me;
It’s stripped full many a bone
And cut and carved and sliced and slashed
Through many a tasty snack,
And many a stubborn cork I’ve pulled
With the little screw at the back —
The little screw at the back of it,
The old corkscrew at the back.
It rips the tins of fish or jam
When my hopes are high and bright,
Or spreads the mutton-fat on bread
When the outlook's dark as night;
ft cuts tobacco, cake and plug,
And twist that is rank and black.
But ever my fondest memories cling
To the little screw at the back —
The spiral screw, at the back of it,
The strong corkscrew at the back.
The maker’s name is graven deep,
A name o’er the wide world known,
Though “Cutlers to Her Majesty”
Was worn away with the stone
In days when I went harvesting
And cutting bands at the stack,
And sweat-soaked dust brought grime and rust
To the little screw at the back—
The handy screw at the back of it,
The steel corkscrew at the back.
The handle’s smooth from wear and tear,
’Twas made from hoof or horn ;
Keen as a razor is the blade,
Though fine as a needle worn.
A faithful friend in bush or town,
Trusty and true on the track,
And never that blade has grudged me aid,
Or the little screw at the back—
The sturdy screw at the back of it,
The corkscrew friend at the back.
N.S.W.
JIM GRAIIAME.


1
n
jf:
i
m
n
A A;
m
m
i
IP |M
§ - ;' *
Mrs. G. Sandford and Miss S. Christie leaving Adelaide on their DUNLOP-SHOD “ESSEX” for Darwin.
The modern
WOIIUHI-and
the car o/today
accomplish trans-
continental motor
drives that were
almost undreamt
of 10 years ago
Across Australia
East to West and South to North
Great Drive by Lady Motorist
The difficulties which many motorists, no doubt, have thought to
be very great in crossing Australia by car, are evidently more I
imaginary than real This has recently been demonstrated by
Mrs, Gladys Sandford and Miss Christie —two women motorists
from New Zealand, Mrs. Sandford, who has a reputation in New
Zealand as a motorist —having won a race on the Muriwai Beach
at 90 miles an hour —was the first woman to receive a licence as
an aeroplane pilot in that country. Her present trip has extended
over the greater part of Australia by car.
Driving a Dunlop shod Essex Coach, these two women by them-
selves have already travelled from Sydney to Perth, via Melbourne,
back to Adelaide, thence up to Darwin, and are now journeying
to Sydney, without any mishap. “In a way,” said Mrs. Sandford,
on her arrival in Perth, “I am disappointed. When we left New
Zealand we expected to find miles and miles of desert, and we are
still looking for it. I thought we would meet something like the
desert in Egypt, which I know well; but there was nothing like that.
In fact, I thought that we would have to find our way by means
of a compass, but there is really no difficulty in finding the
roads or tracks along the whole route. Of course we did not
strike fine weather. The roads were terrible and we were hung
up on occasions, but I should imagine that at certain periods they
are good to travel over. We were obliged to stay at Mundarabilla
Station for six days because of rain. It rained over 400 points in
those six days, and at one stage we removed two petrol cases of
mud from inside the mudguards. We met some people travelling
east who had been eight hours going 24 miles. We averaged 322
miles a day from Sydney to Adelaide, and although we went
through some of the country rapidly, the hospitality of the people
along the route was something to marvel at. I thought we knew
something about mud in New Zealand, but although everybody told
us that it was unusual, the rain on this trip has been something
distinctly unusual.” The only tyre trouble experienced during the
trip from Sydney to Perth and back to Adelaide was a pinched
tube, caused through the puckering of the loose canvas flap, which
is not surprising considering the extra heavy work thrown on the
back tyres, which for a thousand miles were continually spinning
and skidding through the wet clay tracks on to sharp limestone
rock. Despite the severe strain thus put upon the tyres, Mrs.
Sandford states that they show no ill effects, and she left Adelaide
for Darwin with the four original Dunlop covers and tubes still
fitted. Mrs. Sandford has since successfully negotiated the 2000
mile trip from Adelaide to Darwin, and is now on her way back
to Sydney on the same tyres. When Sydney is reached Mrs.
Sandford will have travelled about 10,000 miles during her Aus-
tralian tour.
This is a remarkable trip for two women to take alone, and should
dispel any doubt in the minds of motorists who contemplate
touring the length or breadth of Australia by car. It proves the
wonderful reliability of the present day automobile, and also the
safety of the country for travellers when miles away from any
habitation, during many stages of the journey.
* ★ *
You gain in mileage besides avoiding trouble
when you fit Australian
I
Their quality, strength and construction ensures
satisfaction with minimum cost for tyre upkeep.
Fit “-Dunlop.’ —it pays! Garages stock them.
★ * ¥
DUNLOP RUBBER CO. OF AUST. LTD.
All States an d N.Z.
4
DARWIN
'X
\v
\\
U
r
ft
BRISBANE.
ft
M
&
SYDNEY
MELB
a
■
■ : i::
mbmp
> ;
R . 1
'■i
zm
m
: ,rf'
mmmm
mmWm
nm
**%»'*-£* -*i
i : 1 £
%
• ■
i
■wao
r. : •
Negotiating a bad patch on the Adelaide —Perth section.


nr,
m
rn
\ \ \\
\ f r n ri
rn
mm
AL~_
Wo
m
OZZkv
SEBEI
y
/
V m
>\vt
M
OT
o
K)
Vl«
\
s
m.\
\
S
Z'm
mm
3
>5
r JP*
W/Z
as
'
\
M
/
i
V
a
wm
5
-J
*
U) fV
i
U 1111 l
“The Sale of Sales ”
Commences Friday, June 1 Oth
ABSOLUTELY unlike any other
Sale before. Bargains never so
prolific the saving of money never so
easy. Prices demolished to seemingly
impossible levels in Mens and Boys'
Wear, Sports, Radio, Travel Goods ,
As a Basis EVERY-
THING is REDUCED
AT LEAST
10 %
Excepting a few proprietary lines only.
Enormous stocks, however , are reduced
even as low as Half Price!
A
m
m
H
mmmm
W
¥
» 1
77*£ Murdoch Guarantee is
Your Protection
= GUARANTEE —-
WE GUARANTEE this Suit to Mr. ..
against flaws in the material or making or against
any imperfections in the fit. and if it is not satis-
factory we will make any necessary alterations or
make another Suit free of charge or refund the full
purchase price.
(Sgd.) Murdoch’s in Park-Street, Ltd., Sydney.
Don’t miss this Saving on your Tailored Suit!
A Genuine £ 7 , 7 ! - Pure Wool
Worsted or
Serge Suit
for
fS/4'9
to Measure
FOR Smartest Suit Style for
supreme worth of material and for
a genuine saving of solid cash, this
bargain absolutely stands alone. Superb Pure Wool Worsteds , featuring
latest Greys, Powder Blues, Pinheads, Dice Checks, Basket weaves,
Criss-Cross designs, etc. Also All-Wool Fine Twill or Herringbone Serges;
also new Dice Checks —guaranteed pure indigo dye. A faultlessly-tailored
Suit-to-measure by Murdoch’s inimitable Suit craftsmen.
Usually £77'- Sale Price £s'l4'9
TO MEASURE.
Other Unprecedented Money - Saving Suit-to-measure Bargains at
£3/15/6, £4/4/-, £5/2/5, and Hand-finished at £7/13/-,
and £B/11/-.
Free Patterns
Mailed
Anywhere !
Fill in and Post this
Coupon now abso-
lutely) no obligation
whatever.
DESK B.
Murdoch’s in Park-street, Ltd., Sydney.
Dear Sirs, —Without any obligation to me, please send free of all cost a
complete range of Suiting Patterns at Sale Prices, also free Measurement
Outfit.
Name
Address
June 9,~1927.’*' /
A Few from the Thousands of Bargains.
Sale
Usually. Price.
30/- Men’s English Pure Fur Felt Hats 21/-
30/- Men’s “Sombrero” Pure Fur Felt Hats 22/6
21/- Men’s Pure Wool Fancy Pullovers, V Front 13/6
55/- Men’s Warm Woollen Tweed “Raglan” Overcoats 39/6
6/6 Men’s Black Mercerised Tennis Shirts 4/6
19/6 Men’s Nigger Calf Military Cossacks 15/9
85/- Bancroft “Winner” Tennis Racquets 65/-
Postage Paid to Your Door
Illustrated Bargain Catalogue
Sent Free on Inquiry,
MURDOCHS
IN
PARK
STREET
LTD,
SYDNEY
“The World’s Largest Men’s and Bovs’ Wear Store.


The Australian Provincial Assurance Association Limited
HEAD OFFICE: 77 KING STREET, SYDNEY.
Directors • Messrs EDMUND S. W. PAUL (Chairman), ALEX. KING, Dr. E. MORRIS HUMPHERY, Senator J. D. MILLEN, and WM. NORTHAM.
Total Assets exceed. . .. .. £1,724,000
BRANCHES: Melbourne, Brisbane, Adelaide, Perth, Hobart. NEW ZEALAND: Wellington, Auckland, Christchurch, Dunedin.
SOME REASONS WHY YOU SHOULD INSURE WITH THE A.RA.
(1)
Because in the event of total disablement for life
will be paid by the Association and no deduction
all future premiums
made from policy or
(2) Hospital Benefits are given with every Life Policy applicable to public
’ and private hospitals, varying m amount according to the sum assured
and no deduction made from policy or bonuses.
(3) In the event of loss of eye or limb through accident, a quarter of the
sum assured will be paid forthwith, and the premium reduced propor-
tionately.
(4) PERSONAL ACCIDENT and Combined Benefit Policies provide lo-
almost every contingency.
NO EXTRA PREMIUM IS CHARGED FOR THESE BENEFITS
Probate, Children’s Education and Finance Policies specialised.
Applications for Agencies invited from men of integrity.
GEO. PEACOCK, P.C.1.5., Secretary.
T. W. RAPLEY, General Manager.
“Up Top” : A prick from a coral splinter
is sometimes dangerous. I've known even
niggers to get dreadful feet from its poison
WHAT WAS LEFT OF HIM.
“Surely, Grandad, you remember me—young Jim Smith?”
“But you baint the little .Jimmy Smith I knoo thirty year ago?”
“Well, if I ain’t Dad, I’m his mortial remains.”
when working amongst the Barrier reefs.
Some say that virus arises only when the
coral is dead and mangrove mud gets into
the wound. It was from such poisoning that
one of the most loved men on Thursday
Island met his death years ago—and he a
doctor, too. lie suffered for nearly a fort-
night, in the meantime giving directions as
to the treatment of the wound. While
lancing it the attendant doctor pricked his
finger. The matron immediately snatched
his hand and sucked the wound. Hope was
built on a serum which was wired for but
never came to hand.
* * * *
“Gougcr”: Torres Islanders are experi-
enced students of the tides. For centuries
their lives have come
from the water, and
they have built many
pretty legends on the
tides and winds, the
rains and stars, and
collected much lore
about them. The vaga-
ries of the Torres
Strait tides have
puzzled the naval
authorities for years.
The Islanders ventur-
ing on the moody sea
in their frail dug-outs
must have lost innu-
merable men before
pati e n t observation
taught them the re-
lationship of tides,
winds and weather.
They say that if a
man is at death’s door
he will stay there
knocking until the
turn of the tide. Then
the portals open.
Didn’t the Yarmouth
boatmen of whom
Dickens wrote have
the same belief? The
rain and wind, the
Torres Straiters main-
tain, are regulated by
the tide. If a strong
tide is running and a
hefty wind with it, the
wind will moderate
when the tide turns.
They hold the same
theory regarding the
rain and the tide.
Also, if a person is poisoned by a fish, the
pain will reach its intensity at high tide ; as
the tide falls the pain is subdued. So say
these sunlit children, to whom rain and
tides bring everything.
* * * *
“Gregor” : The par. about eucalyptus-trees
of considerable age flourishing in England and
Europe (B. 5/r>/'27) again raises doubts as to
whether these trees are strictly indigenous to
Australia. In San Francisco I saw one
giant which, by the
accepted methods of
computation, must
have been at least
80 years old. This
would make the
date of its planting
about 1847, when
there was little
intercourse between
Australia and that
part of America.
Further south, be-
tween Los Angeles
and San Diego, and
around San Luis
Obispo and Santa
Barbara, big euca-
lypts are common,
and most of them
seem to be at least
60 years old. One
ancient resident in
the district told me
that he remembered
big gum-trees grow’-
ing there when he
was a boy, some
being a great age
then. Eucalypts are
plentiful in South
America, especially
in Chile and Peru,
and there they seem
to be accepted as
members of the na-
tive local flora. In
view of the close re-
semblance in many
directions between
the plant-life o f
Eastern Australia
and that of Western
South America,
hinting at a connec-
tion in some bygone
geological age, it is
not unlikely that
some varieties o f
eucalypts occur
naturally in South America and thence have
made their wav northwards, although many
of the gums in the U.S.A. undoubtedly owe
their origin to Australia.
* * * *
“Almanac” : The complaint made by “Bad
Australian” (B. 12/5/’27) regarding the
scarcity of fish in the Murray and its tribu-
taries is based on absolute facts. I have
fished the Murray from Albury to Toeumwal,
the Ovens from Myrtleford to Yarrawonga
and the Goulburn from Sliepparton to
Nathalia during the last 12 years, and along
these stretches have seen night lines by the
thousand and drum-net cages by the hundred.
These, I believe, are the chief means of
depleting our rivers, and settlers on or near
WHY WORRY?
BILL: “I’m not (join ’ bach to the Cow’s Head no more. The last pot they handed uut
’ad a fly in it.”
JOE: “Well, a fly couldn’t ha’ drunk much of it, could it?”
these streams are probably the chief
offenders. The time will come when hatch-
eries will have to take, up the work of re-
stocking these waters with native fish. What
is needed in the meantime is a close season
embracing a year at least for the Murray and
its subsidiary streams, and a vigorous en-
forcement of Fish and Game Acts.
“Yarragundry”: As a professional fisher-
man, I blame the motor-car, among other
causes, for the scarcity of fish in the Mur-
ray. In pre-motor days only people handy
to* the river fished its waters to any extent.
Nowadays week-end parties come to it regu-
larly 50 and 60 miles. All the towns and
farms around furnish their parties, and 90
per cent, of them retain all fish, big or little.
Also in summer Burrinjuek restricts the
regular flow of water. Before the dams
were built storms flushed the river at inter-
vals ; now these waters are all impounded.
As regards protection, once the close season
commences the professional immediately
stores his gear, but the amateur keeps going.
At Berembed weir, where the fish school in
thousands in the, summer, being unable to
get up the river, anglers congregate in hun-
dreds. The inspector raids them, but so
many false names are given that only a few
offenders are fined. Nevertheless, I hold that
the river is just as fully stocked as in the
past, the phenomenal summer conditions pro-
duced by Burrinjuek having caused the fish
to so far remain dormant.
* * * *
“Birre Gurra”: In resenting my detrac-
tion of his picture of droving conditions
“Saaedi” (B. 5/5/’27) emphasises the fact
that he referred to men “who actually take
charge of sheep.” Any drover properly
equipped with his own plant would reject
contemptuously an offer of £2 per day, so I
take it that lie refers to drovers who are
supplied with the necessary gear by the
owner of the sheep. I. too, have a know-
l<y<\ of the game, and know that many
stations consider a man in charge of a station
plant to be well paid at £1 per day. During
the drought in Queensland . I saw some tidy
mobs of up to 5000 lifted and taken on
hazardous routes by men in charge of
station plants, and seldom were they paid
over £1 per day. Pottering around with 500
free-movers in the Elysian resorts of
“Saaedi” may be enjoyable, but it is not
droving as a iot of us in Queensland know it.
“Betoota” : The class of droving “Saaedi”
speaks of is referred to as “chain-road
racing” by old-timers in the S.A. cocky dis-
tricts. There the drovers do get £2 per day
for shifting small mobs short distances.
Droving, however, becomes quite a differen:
matter when store cattle are being shifted,
especially in a dry season. Then your swag
is your home, and you never see it in day-
light, nor in a goodly portion of the star-
light, for cattle can’t be run into a break
for a night. The tucker is rough and of the
simplest kind, and wages are £5 per week.
The liorse-tailer and dough-roaster don’t fare
quite as badly. They get a sleep during the
day, and, in the cook’s case, overtime for
night watching.
* * *
“Xamornie”: We sold a lot of red lead in
plantation stores in New Guinea, but two of
my boys have sworn off its use for ever.
Seeing a pot of “Red Mercury Horse
Blister” on the verandah, they pinched it
and applied the stuff liberally to their faces
and bodies before taking part in a sing-sing.
In a very short while they were performing
movements undreamed of by the most imagi-
native dance inventors of the villages. Their
sufferings had the effect of stopping all petty
thefts about the stores, but caused my stocks
of red lead to become a drug on the market.
* * * *
“Duanrats”: Some years ago, in the Wim-
mera (Vic.), a man had a valuable mare
in foal to something classy. A few days
before the due date for the goods she fell
and broke a leg. The mother was destroyed
and the foal removed without a great deal of
trouble. I saw the animal four years later
and it was quite normal and healthy.
* * * *
“Pen”: Here’s a made-in-England treat-
ment for the jibbing horse. Go the round
of his hoofs with a fair-sized stone, tapping
all round the shoe and finishing with a smart
rap on the frog. Then hop into your vehicle
and drive off without using the whip and as
if nothing had happened. This may sound
foolish, but it is a gypsy trick, and you
can’t give the gypsy many points in horse-
handling.
* * *
“Barmac”: Is there a selected-leader type
in the lower organisms? Recently I
attempted to train a line of caterpillars in
a circle. I took six of the rear insects and
placed them in front. Obviously they were
puzzled. My leader, by swinging round and
touching th.e hairs of his followers, worked
his way back to the main train. On arrival
there, lie was followed by the others; he
stopped, and a jumble ensued. Quite sud-
denly the original leader swung right about-
face and butted his neighbor on the head;
then he passed straight on down the line.
As he went he touched each of the chain in
the same way. Each insect turned, and
soon they were wriggling back over the way
they had come.
PENSION TOWN.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
[The name bestowed on the camping-grpund at
Dubbo (N.S.W.), where the old-age pensioners build
their improvised homes.]
Here the shearer, cook and slushie, station-
hand and rouseabout
Make a camp in lifetime’s eve and settle
down ;
They have rolled their last Matilda and have
seen their last cut-out,
And are waiting for the call at Pension
Town.
Though they seem all idly resting some are
tramping still in mind
Through the changes back along their
many ways,
With the joys of life before them and the
cares of life behind
On the green and leafy tracks of other
days.
Some are fencing, some are clearing, some
are working underground,
On their waggons some are loading bales
of wool;
Some are on their way to Sydney; more, per-
haps, are outward bound
To a country rich and new and wonderful.
Now a thousand head of cattle tearing madly
through the night,
Leaving tangled station fences in their
train,
Are pursued by Bill the drover, overtaken in
their flight,
In the darkness wheeled and driven back
again.
To a concertina playing old bush tunes when
work, is o’er
And the bleating ewes and lambs have left
the shed,
One is waltzing with a sweetheart lightly
on the woolroom floor,
And old Jim the ringer's beard again is
red.
Though contented in the summer, oft at
shearing-time they yearn
To swing once again along the river track;
They can hear the brolgas calling where the
wilga camp-fires burn
And the horse-bells tinkle on the roads out-
back.
N.s.w.
JIM DOWLING.


Top Prices at Winchcombe-Carson’s sales
are an encouragement for skin-getters to make war
on the rabbit.
The firm's work is reliable and capable. As a
result buyers operate with confidence at Winch-
oombe-Carson auctions, and owners consistently secure
full market values.
CONSIGN SKINS:
WINCHCOM BE, CARSON
SYDNEY OR BRISBANE.
EDGEWORTH
HIGH GRADE
SMOKING TOBACCO
Australian Agents: R. TOWNS
CO., SYDNEY.
WHEN IN BRITAIN
You will wish to see
CAMBRIDGE : : YORK
HARROGATE, EDINBURGH
and other
Beautiful Cathedral Cities.
These are on the
London 8 North-Eastern Railway
The track of the “Plying Scotsman.”
SHORTEST AND QUICKEST
between
LONDON AND SCOTLAND.
Illustrated Booklets describing Resorts on
the L.N.E.R. will be gladly supplied on
application to Messrs. BURNS, PHILP & CO..
LTD., 10 Bridge Street, Sydney, and Branches;
or in London at the L.N.E.R. West End
Offices, 71 Regent Street, and 59 Piccadilly,
W.l.
Tour England and Scotland
by L.N.E.R.
THE MAN
ON THE LAND'S
PAGE
RESTORING PHOSPHATES TO POOR
GRAZING HAND.
“W.P.D.” : There are areas in Queensland
where it is difficult to rear lambs. There
may be an 80 per cent, drop, but not more
than 30 or 40 per cent, reach maturity.
Forty or fifty years ago there was no diffi-
culty in rearing a high percentage in these
districts. The cause is malnutrition; the
grasses do not now contain the properties
they once did.
Mr. Brunnicli, chemist in the Department
of Agriculture and Stock (Q.), threw a good
deal of light on the subject about four years
ago. Pie called attention, in his analysis
of Queensland soils, to the fact that even
in the beginning phosphoric acid was not
plentiful in Queensland ; yet to produce milk,
wool, beef and mutton a certain proportion
of phosphates was necessary. In some cases
grass has been cropped by stock for from
60 to SO years. The wool, beef and mutton
have been sent away, and nothing returned
to make up for the waste of phosphates.
No wonder that when ewes wean their lambs
the result is the prematui'e death of the
lambs. And the ewes themselves cannot give
the necessary milk owing to the lack of
phosphates.
It is not practicable to top-dress our
pastures, except to a very limited extent; but
the needful minerals may be given to the
animals directly, and thus supply the lack
in the grasses for the time being. Mr. Brun-
nich thinks the best lick for sheep is 401 b.
sterilised bone meal, 401 b. finely-ground phos-
phates and 201 b. common salt. A greater
proportion of salt is not needed, especially
where there are saline bores. Grass or hay
are better digested with phosphates than
without, and the droppings supply what the
soil badly lacks.
“THE LAW OF MINIMUM.”
“Tritice”: Astounding results can be
obtained by a sparse dressing of one manure,
when hundredweights of another make no
appreciable difference; and even where
farmers are growing fairly decent crops it
may be found that an analysis of their soils
will show the way to obtain increased re-
turns without so big an outlay as so many
of them make on super. The most important
thing, perhaps, to remember in connection
with fertilisers is “the law of minimum.”
This means that the yield of a given crop
■will be limited by the amount of one parti-
cular constituent that happens to be defi-
cient. From this it follows that, for
example, in a soil deficient in nitrogen, the
yield will be proportionate to the amount
of nitrogen supplied in the fertiliser (up
to a certain point) and no excess of other
constituents will make up for this deficiency.
DRY TICKLING.
“Homo”: When using copper carbonate it
is dangerous to put the unpickled wheat
into the drill with the idea of pickling it
in the seed-box as the machine w’orks. The
dust will escape on to the pinions and cause
damage to them, as we have found to our
cost. And a breakdown at seeding-time may
cause a big loss in the yield.
When using a proper wheat-pickler, and
for seed that is known to have been grown
without smut, 4oz. copper carbonate will be
enough per bushel; when the origin of the
wheat is doubtful or it is known to be
smutty, foz. will be required.
EARLY CROPPING.
“Glenfield”: In the n.-w. Mallee (Vic.)
it lias been found advisable to complete
cropping by the last week in May; but this
season the prolonged dry spell has agitated
the minds of farmers—they don’t know
whether to sow dry and get an early start
with fallowing, or wait for rain however
late. This situation crops up once in every
six or seven years, and close observation
should give something fairly definite for
future guidance. The last time the season
broke late was 1920, rain holding off .till
the first week in June. My experience on
that occasion was that the part of the fallow
sown dry averaged five bags, whereas the
part sown after rain averaged seven bags.
But cropping was not finished till July. The
drawback to the late sowing is the conse-
quent lateness of fallowing and the hustle
for the rest of the year to catch up and
keep the fallow clean, as these seasons are
invariably w r et. It is an accepted fact that
early fallow is better than late fallow, and
the two-bag gain by waiting for rain might
easily be lost by late and dirty fallow in the
following crop.
THE FUTURE OF THE MURRAY
VALLEY.
“Croesus”: Subject to slight delays, the
work of locking the Murray goes on. It
is an expensive business; and big extra
areas of land will have to be irrigated and
a greatly increased riverside population
served with transport before the work pays
for itself. The Murray Valley will cer-
tainly at no distant date be supporting an
immense population. The increase is going
on now—slowly on the N.S.W. side and
rapidly on the Vic. side. Bridges are build-
ing to carry railways across the river, under
an agreement between the Governments of
Vic. and N.S.W. In the “Sunset” country,
from Mildura down through the Millewa to
Renmark in S.A., huge areas have been cut
up and settled for wheat-growing, irrigation
canals put through and a railway built
which provides an alternative route to Adel-
aide. In this area last season wheat paid
the settlers handsomely, and many of them,
though pioneers of only three years, are
driving new cars instead of spring-carts on
their trips for the mail. But it should be
somebody’s job now to be finding other crops
to fit the conditions. Certainly there should
be a few experimental farms along the
river testing the land for various products.
It is costly and heartbreaking to settle land
first and then let the settlers do the experi-
menting. The Markets and Migration man,
Gepp, recently called attention to the big
tonnage of almonds imported yearly into
Australia; definitely almonds will grow very
well along the Murray and are being grown
there now. Rice, too, promises to be a suit-
able and profitable crop. Olives are not
half exploited, though they are known to
do well.
But it is with crops like tobacco and lin-
seed, products at present imported and
which, if they can be successfully grown,
will account for big areas, closely settled,
that Governments should be experimenting.
It will take years, for instance, to find out
enough about tobacco to ensure the success
of any Murraysidp area settled primarily
for its production; and if the Common-
wealth Government’s agreement with the
B.A.T.C. does not provide for work of this
kind, then it is not the agreement it ought
to be. Politicians and after-dinner speakers
do no harm by referring in grandiose terms
to the glorious future of the Murray Val-
ley, but if it is not made somebody’s job to
see about it, the glorious future will soon
be half ignominious past.
THE MURRAY SETTLEMENTS.
“Fiat Lux”: The present poor state of
the currant market is due not to the com-
petition of Greece but to a general decline
in the consumption of currants owing to
their being replaced by sultanas.
With regard to both currants and sultanas,
Australia lias advantages over Greece and
Turkey on the London market. (1) The
time of arrival ensures fresh stocks at a
period when the Levantine product has
become stale and grub-infested. (2) The
cleanliness of the Australian product. (3)
The Preferential Tariff, approaching £lO a
ton in the case of sultanas. That these are
real advantages is shown by the fact that
the London quota of sultanas has for the
last three years returned the grower a net
price in excess of cost of production.
“Croesus” (B. 14/4/’27) suggested that it
would be “sounder business to cut down the
growing of fruit for overseas and substitute
one or more of the commodities Australia is
now compelled to import.” He suggested,
first, tobacco. But it would be necessary to
wash the salt out of the soil, as tobacco
grown where there are over 16 parts of
salt per 100,000 is useless for smoking—it
won’t burn. Vines and fruit-trees stand
ten times this quantity. The next suggested
substitute was cotton.. This was tried ex-
perimentally for three years 'in succession
and failed quite miserably. Rice is another
“very suitable” crop for Sunraysia. It
requires a heavy clay soil, and Sunraysia
soils are sandy. In addition it would need
something like 6ft. of water, which at £2
per acre-foot would be ,£l2 per acre—the
value of the crop without allowing for seed,
cultivation and interest.
The grower did not go for vines without
reason; a study of climatological conditions
will show that Sunraysia is the only portion
of eastern Australia which has the conditions
to produce good sultanas almost every year.
Consequently sultanas are the only crop that
the Sunraysian can grow at a profit in com-
petition with his fellow-Victorian or South
Australian.
An acquaintance with the people of Sun-
raysia will show that they are keen to
tackle anything that will give them a chance
of improving their position ; but so far the
best they have found has been the substi-
tution of the sultana for the currant and
gordo bianco. This they are doing as rapidly
as finance permits.
TAR BRANDS IN WOOL.
“Trepex”: “Solo” (B. 19/5/’27) gets
quite warm over my remarks concerning
“tar” brands (B. 21/4/’27), asserting
naively that he knows what he is talking
about but I don’t —that my 18 years on the
wool show-floors is not worth much. Well,
we won’t be angry about it, but, to be fair
to Tiie Bulletin, which is endeavoring to
be helpful to the man on the land, I might
as well state my credentials. I suppose I
have responsibly valued close on a million
bales of wool by now, and it is a part of
my daily bread and butter not only to hear
buyers discussing such a matter as “tar”
brands but to discuss it with them. Further-
more, I have sold a good many thousand
bales “over the bale.” In these transactions
buyers are very quick to find faults so as
to secure an easier price, yet I have never
heard this objection raised.
If he wants me to be very precise, I will
admit that the insignificant proportion of
our wool that comes off half- or less-than-half
woolled sheepskins does suffer because the
brand has not had wear or weather enough
to loosen it, and the action of any solution
is therefore slow on the substance.
“Solo’s” information about sorting out tar
brands and other objectionable features in
wool is fairly correct, but it refers to the
real thing. And he must not forget that Aus-
tralian wool is not the only stuff to be
handled. Australasia is responsible for only
one-third of the world’s production of three
billion pounds. That leaves two billion
pounds to be considered with its faults, and
without doubt we are blamed for a lot of
sins that are not ours. Americans, who are
big buyers of the British domestic clip, have
been protesting lately about the avoidable
faults in that wool, including very objection-
able tar brands. As we can read admissions,
even in Yorkshire trade journals, that the
general get-up of the Australian clip is
leagues ahead of that of any other country,
I think we should resent carrying other
people’s faults.
“Solo” will not essay to tell how sheep
should be branded. Neither will I. but I’ll
say this to the woolgrowers of Australia
quite positively: “The branding of sheep as
generally practised by you does not notice-
ably detract from the price of your wool. I
have detected brands in wool which sold in
Sydney this season at about the 40-penny
mark, and I’ve seen a clip from the Yass
district sell at disappointing figures although
it was advertised in the catalogue to contain
no tar brands. If your present system of
branding sheep serves a useful purpose of
identification, stick to it.”
COUNTING SHEEP.
“Two Seas” : If you are new to the gam?
and are taking delivery of sheep you have
paid good money for, turn a deaf ear to the
chaff of the old hand and fix the gate so
that not more than two sheep can come
through at a time. As the buyer, it is
your right to fix it as you want it.
There are various methods of counting.
Sortie old hands count them as they come,
some count them in pairs, and others tick
off three at a time, counting them from “one”
to “thirty-three” with a cry of “hundred”
for the odd one. One overseer I knew, up
Boggabri way. used a long wand with which
he tapped each sheep as it cleared the gate.
Needless to say he was pot one of the
“hurdle-wide” experts one hears about. When
two-tooth wethers could be bought for half
a crown, ’way back in the ’nineties, the loss
of a few sheep was neither here nor there:
but nowadays one can’t afford to pay for
more than are counted through the gate. It
requires a lot of practice to make a reliable
counter, especially when the sheep jump and
prop back at the gate. The best thing to do
when this ancient instinct for jumping un-
seen crevices on mountain tracks breaks out
is to block the gate and start them again.
If the newclium at the job finds himself try-
ing to count sheep back from the paddock to
the gate he had better give it up and trust
the counting to some experienced man.
Here is what one old hand once said to
me: “If a man, taking delivery of sheep
lie has bought from me, admits that he can’t
count. I’ll see that. lie doesn’t lose by it;
but if he pretends he can count and he
misses a few sheep, they’re mine.” Let that
be an instruction to the newehum. Very
few bushmen will betray a beginner’s trust in
them.
MOTOR TRANSPORT IN DROUGHT.
liaudy Andy ' : Motor transport, which
did so much to save sheep during the late
drought in Central and N.-W. Queensland by
carrying grain to the stricken areas, is again
to be utilised on a large scale in the North.
This time the sheep themselves, some 19,000
in number, will be carried. Originally 70,000
strong, the sheep left Llonrheidol, near Win-
ton, a year ago in search of grass and water,
finally ending up at Lake Machattie station!
near Bedourie, on Eyre Creek, in far S.-W.
Queensland. Llonrheidol is now in good
carrying condition, but in between is a 300-
mile stretch of drought-blasted country. So
six motor-lorries have been engaged to carry
home the jumbucks at 7s. per head. Four
4-ton lorries hope to carry 150 sheep each
in two tiers of crates, and the two-tonners
will carry 80 each. The trip is expected to
take 30 hours. Sol Green, the bookmaker,
is the owner of the sheep, and the bill will
run to £6650.
The biggest previous stunt of the kind
was the shifting of 10,000 sheep 180 miles
by W. Russell, M.L.A. for Dalby (Q.). That
cost £l5OO. Last year J. M. Ellis, of Long-
reach, carried 3000 some 250 miles for £750.
THE MAORILAND SIIEEP-DIP.
“Te Hi pi’’: A much faster and handier
dip than the U dip described by “J.D.C.” (B.
21/4/’27) is in general use in Maoriland.
Have your dip about 7ft. or Bft. wide if
possible, and considerably below the level
of the race leading to it. Construct a hinged
platform above the dip and at the mouth of
the race to hold as many sheep as you
like, but not more than the dip will hold,
with one keybolt to keep it steady. Drive
your sheep up the race until the platform
is full. Pull the bolt and drop ’em in.
If the hinges of the platform are near the
middle it saves time and sweat in pulling
it back into position for the next lot. Board
up the head of the platform, and the sheep
never see the water until they are in it;
this will save time and language in getting
them up the race, especially if they have
been dipped before and don’t want a second
experience.
THE CANE-FARMERS’ ENEMIES.
“Clarenza”: The C.S.R. Co. keeps a staff
of experts on the three sugar-growing rivers
of N.S.W.—Clarence, Richmond and Tweed
—to check the diseases to which the plant
is susceptible, and propagate new varieties
of cane. It does the same in Queensland,
where the State Government co-operates, and
growers are also levied, upon for this work.
The various diseases are now fairly well
under control, mainly through the cultivation
of resistant varieties. In 1925 there was an
alarming recrudescence of the gumming dis-
ease ; it made its re-appearance on a small
area of the Clarence, which had been free
for 25 years. There were also new outbreaks
in Queensland; and on the Richmond, where
it had been prevalent in a mild form for
years, it became more virulent, but showed
a marked decline last year, and this year is
still less in evidence.
But while these diseases have been held in
check, another enemy has been invading the
canefields of N.S.W., and doing more serious
damage every year. This is the rat, whose
taste for cane, first noticed about 25 years
ago, is becoming more pronounced every
year, until now he is doing more damage
than all the bacterial diseases combined.
Last year fully half the cane in many fields
was destroyed by this pest, which bites the
stalk almost through near the ground, so
that it withers and dies before harvesting-
time, leaving the ground littered with a
tangle of dead cane.
So far very little individual or organised
action has been taken to cope with this
curse. Last year, on the Richmond, the
C.S.R. Co. distributed poison, with directions
for laying it simultaneously throughout the
cane area; but I did not hear of many dead
rodents being found. A good class of rat-
catcliing dogs suggests itself as one check,
but few farmers have such dogs, though
nearly all 'have more or less useless mon-
grels. There are other means, but in all of
them organised action is necessary. It is
organisation that is needed more than
money; a little cash, well expended, would
be recouped many times in the cane saved
from destruction. No doubt in this matter,
as in others, the C.S.R. Co. will have to
take the lead and inaugurate a campaign.
SHEER GOATS AND DINGOES.
“675” : I don’t know if there is anything in
“Saaedi’s” theory (B. 19/5/’27) of dingoes
not attacking sheep when goats are running
with the mob, but in Patagonia it is usual
for shepherds running sheep on open camp
to mix 1 or 2 per cent, of goats with the
flock. But I always understood the reason
to be that any considerable portion of a
flock missing will include at least one goat,
and so a count of goats gives a good- rough
tally of the sheep. Goats, also, are indivi-
dual in character and are liable to know what
(Continued on page 31.)


fC
\
O
No. 99 SET. Contains the essentials
for a perfect “Valet” shave—the
razor, strop and blade in rj
leatherette-covered case. . O j
Of all dealers.
i
Sfifes.
m
I
83a
8
Ever
Felt
Velvet?
Hie can’t pass that mirror without marvelling. Fifty
perfect shaves and the self-same blade still as keen as
ever on its job. The secret? No secret; it’s the
“Valet” Auto Strop Safety Razor, the razor that
strops its own blade without removal from the frame.
Ask your dealer to show you how it works.
BRITISH
MADE.
“VALET”
.Ando'S
Safety Razor
OF ALL
DEALERS-
The Auto Strop Safety Razor Co., Ltd.
197-207 City Road, London, England.
Managing Agents for Australia —
PHIPSON & COMPANY, LTD., 181 Clarence Street, Sydney.
Your Health!
m
m
■
Guinness’s Stout
hi
n
m
m
1759-1927
The World Over
OBTAINABLE
EVERYWHERE


Graham Brothers
trucks
Long Life
From pole to pole, wherever goods must be transported,
Graham Brothers Trucks are daily winning preference
and a reputation as leaders.
Speed, power, simplicity of design, high grade
materials, low cost of operation all are important
characteristics. Each takes on increasing importance
when it is coupled with long life.
Mile after mile, year after year, they prove their value
so conclusively everywhere that Graham Brothers
continue to build more trucks than any other exclusive
truck manufacturer in the world.
Parts and Service Here .
Canada Cycle & Motor Co. (Victoria) Pty., Ltd., Melbourne
Austral Motors, Limited, Brisbane —Townsville
The Standardised Motors, Ltd., Sydney
Waymouth Motor Co., Ltd., Adelaide
Winterbottom Motor Co., Ltd., Perth
V.
•*“v
* « • •.
I *3
i
u
«
JSSSBI
3
J
c-c
'7t
/
1- CHASSIS ------ £325
l|-TON CHASSIS ------ £445
2- CHASSIS £485
2-TON CHASSIS (Long Wheel-base) £515
BUILT BY TRUCK DIVISION OF DODGE
BROTHERS, INC. SOLD BY DODGE
BROTHERS DEALERS EVERYWHERE.


GLOBE
vw
&
V-2
TIMBER MILLS C 9
FLINDERS ST ADELAIDE
TIMBER., JOINERY,
GALVANIZED /EON
«. ? Prices, Highesh Quality, Prompt* Service
17 D 1717 I A 40-Page Booklet on
N\LL I top-dressing
It Means
Greater
Profit.
This i
ing.
Also I
s the subject every progressive farmer is study-
Every page contains valuable information,
tells about—
TOP-DRESSING MACHINE
The simplest and most effective spreader yet devised.
It also sows (broadcast) grain, grass-seeds or clover.
A Pony Can Pull It. A Boy Can Take Charge.
« if 4 # riW I*l 12 Carlisle Street,
Crump Machinery Co. Pty. Ltd. st. icada, vk.
WmWmMM
mmm
spv'k;
J- ■//'
into the clear
sensitive
heart ,
tfyour set
wita
ALVES
/JETTING stations hundreds of
miles away—picking up and
reproducing with startling clarity the
faintest sounds drifting through the ether
—your set can do that—any set can do
it—if it is equipped with Condor Valves.
For Condor Valves, the result of years of patient
experimenting, are flawless —and they LAST.
So insist on getting genuine Condors.
Condor Valves and Lamps are obtainable
everywhere at attractive prices
CONDOR LAMPS (Australasia) LTD.
SYDNEY, MELBOURNE, ADELAIDE,
BRISBANE, WELLINGTON (N.Z.).
If any illustration in “THE BULLETIN takes your fancy, write
to the MANAGER, who will quote you price for the original.
Registered Trade-mark.
BRITISH
SCISSORS of
HIGH QUALITY.
SOLID STEEL. A LIFETIME’S WEAR.
Representatives :
NORMAN BAKER & LONGHURST, LTD.,
Sydney, Melbourne, and Wellington, N.Z.
CHRISTOPHER JOHNSON & CO.,
FLAG BRAND CUTLERY.
Sheffield,
England.
No. 1369
they want and to see that they get it, which
is to the advantage of sheep running with
them. It may, however, well be that the
goats are a protection from pumas, which
are exceptionally cowardly brutes. Another
trick of the Argentine shepherd is to run
his wethers with long tails while docking the
ewes. Excepting that wethers are easily
picked as such at long distances I do not
know what advantage or disadvantage
accrues.
“Accountant”: “Saaedi” (B. 19/5/27)
asks if there is any connection between sheep,
dingoes and Angora goats. Most certainly
there is; but the particular breed of goat
does not matter. “ISauve qvi pent'’ is the one
definite reaction that sheep exhibit in the
face of an attack by dogs ; similarly-placed
goats will prove themselves to be stubborn
brutes, and quite prepared to fight it out.
This fact was fully realised and acted upon
in the sheep-folding days in America, where,
in the mountains, wolves were keen sheep-
killers. A leavening of goats in the mobs
held the sheep together and prevented sense-
less stampedes. In the Cobar-Nymageo dis-
tricts of N. S. Wales large numbers of goats
went bush from the many abandoned mining
towns; this fact, in the opinion of many
sheepmen, accounts in part for the gradual
migration of the dingo westward across the
Darling.
THE CORNCOBS AT THE SHOW.
“E.S.” : Several farmers of a grandfatherly
age from the Northern Rivers (a corner of
N. S. Wales that badly wants a name) were
comparing notes as they lingered among the
agricultural implements. They were the type
that could talk all day about two ploughs, and
reminiscence for a week over a corn-thresher.
In the first year on scrub-farms the machine
of some of them was a hardwood slab, per-
forated with auger holes. They stuck the
maize cobs in the holes, small ends down,
and drove them through with a light maul,
the grain flying in all directions like shrap-
nel. At intervals the produce was swept
together and bagged. The tale of the corn-
cob from that crude contrivance to the
modern thresher, driven by compact little
engines, was the tale of grandfather’s life.
And he had reared a big family too. But —
“Jim?” he said, in answer to his friend.
“Jim’s in the Commercial Bank, and Bob’s
postmaster now on the other side of the
Tweed. Bill’s a boss drover, and Harry’s
keepin’ a store.” Grandfather, in fact, was
the only one wdio had stuck to corncobs.
THE HAYSTACKS.
“Glenfield” : One aim of the wheat-grower
is to set aside enough hay for use or sale
when the inevitable lean years arrive. In
many cases sufficient care is not taken to
preserve the hay; when the time arrives for
use, the corners of the stack have been pulled
out by stock through inattention to gates :
three or four tons of the roof are black and
mouldy, and quite unfit; and on opening the
stack the hay is found riddled and fouled
by mice.
Sheep-proof the hay-yard. Around the
site for the stack erect ordinary fencing-posts
6ft. apart and 3ft. 6in. out of the ground.
Make the enclosure 2ft. longer each end and
2ft. wider each side than the proposed
measurements of the stack. Now put a rail
of 3in. x 2in. hardwood, 2ft. 6in. from the
ground, around the posts, and let in to come
flush with the sides of the posts. Then
tack on 6ft. x 3ft. plain galvanised-iron
sheets, the bottom edge trenched 6in. in the
ground, the ends turned and flattened in to
one another. There is now Ift. of post show-
ing all round above the iron fence. On this
strain two heavy barb-wires, one along the
top, the other 6in. below. Into this sheep-
and mouse-proof enclosure the stack can
be built without trouble. After harvest
take the binder out to the thickest stubble,
cut sufficient straw and thatch the stack.
POULTRY ON TIIE FARM.
“Practical”: On the average wheat-farm
poultry are considered a necessity by the
thrifty housewife but a nuisance by the men-
folk. Yet as a side-line of the farm they
should stand high, as through them the
farmer is able to utilise his low-grade grain,
skim-milk, etc., and turn them into two
commodities for which there is a regular
and ever-increasing demand. If ho gave
as much attention to the breeding, feeding,
etc., of his poultry as he does to liis sheep,
cows or cereals, not only increased interest,
but increased profits would result. No
farmer worthy of the name would to-day
think of mating his best milkers with a
scrnb-bull; yet one can see really fine flocks
of hens and pullets of all ages running semi
wild with all classes of male birds inter-
mingling, all types and all sizes ; and from
these the eggs are gathered indiscrimin-
ately to hatch the future flock. A selection
from your flock hens of, say, eight to ten.
penned up in a well-kept shed, and mated
with a high-class suitable male, and only
the eggs from this pen used for breeding
from for each season will give astounding
results. Both evenness of quality and aggre-
gate production are improved, and evenness
of sample is a big factor in maintaining
price. You needn’t make a burden of it
or go in for the business like a bird-fancier.
If you merely select hens all black, and mate
with a selected black Orpington or Minorca
male, 95 per cent, of your chicks should be
black, which is ever so much better than
a flock of all colors. And if you use only
full-weight 2oz. eggs for setting, then the
result can be nothing but improvement.
HINTS FOR THE FARM.
“Two Seas” ; Common kitchen-fat is gen-
erally on hand, and that, with lime, is
all one. requires to make a whitewash that
will stick. Mix about 41b. with the lime
as it slakes in a kero. tin. If you haven’t
any fat, use separated milk. Use both if
you can. It makes a better job if the lime
is slaked with milk.
“Saaedi”: The fire-beater “J.F.S.” re-
commends (B. 19/5/’27) is 0.K.. except for
the dimensions of the hide. He suggests
that this part should be 4ft. long by 4 to 5
inches wide. I think a piece of hide S to
10 inches wide by about 2ft. long is much
more satisfactory. In fighting a fire the
first essential is to extinguish the flames
as quickly as possible. A beater of the
dimensions I suggest, attached to a sft rod,
is no harder to handle than the one “J.F.S.”
recommends, and will do double the work
at every stroke.
“Jack Point'’: “Ziff"’ (B. 5/5/’27) is quite
right about the feeding virtues of oats for
sheep, cows and horses. They are also the
best tucker for laying hens, especially where
good green feed is scarce. Take the required
quantity of oats and add about three times
their bulk of water, warmed to blood heat,
adding a few drops of formalin to prevent
mould. Allow to stand for 24 hours, then
spread out on any convenient floor, or on
trays in as warm a place as possible. Water
twice a day, heating the water to blood heat
if in cold weather. In about 10 days the shoots
should be about an inch long, and this is
the best time to feed them. Nothing goes
to waste ; the fowls eat roots, green shoots
and all.
“T.M.”: Some farmers in Victoria are
overcoming the scarcity of sheep pasture by
feeding with onions. These are quite cheap
and are good food. One farmer whom 1
know has using them for years, and many
people have wondered at the condition of
his ewes and lambs.
“Kirk"’: The Tamwortli, in my experience,
is the best pig for crossing with the Berk-
shire. Here in the Speck this cross is a
firm favorite, the sandy and black-spotted
pigs proving excellent doers, growing away
from all other breeds, and the bacon-curers
show their appreciation by keen competition.
In fact, Tasmania largely owes the intro-
duction of this breed to J. O. Newton,
M.H.A., for many years manager in Tas-
mania for Hutton’s Prop. I have also
found the Tam.-Berk, cross the most pro-
lific, usually presenting me with a litter
varying from 10 to 17. The sows, too, are
good foragers and quiet mothers, a very
important point.
“J.G.”: A lot of blistering language is
used by fencers when the bit gets hot and
screws off. To check this and help the
bit many fencers use fat. I did it for many
years; then one day my fat-supply ran out,
and to save my bits from getting red-hot
I filled the tin with water and shoved the
bits in it when they came out of the posts.
To my surprise, I found it w T as a far better
aid; the borings came away from the hole
much more freely and the bit bored better.
Using fat I have broken three bits in a day.
With water I don’t break one a month.
GLANDED SHEEP.
The latest sheep-producing country to take
notice of Dr. Voronoff’s sheep-rejuvenation
experiments in Southern France and Algiers
is Britain. Voronoff claims that, by gland-
grafting, he has increased the size of sheep
and increased and improved the weight of
the fleeces. The French Government has
given him every chance, and he appears to
have got definite results. Winston Churchill,
British Chancellor of the Exchequer, has
recently sent a committee of medical men
to France to report on Voronoff’s results.
It is claimed that the process will increase
and cheapen meat supplies and wool. Still,
it should be some time before Australia is
called on to compete against 15001 b. mut-
tons carrying fleeces of 12in. staple.
“Te Hipi” : In Maoriland tar-branding is
practically unheard of these days. The ear-
marks are the only identification, and a
shepherd isn’t worth employing if lie can’t
draft on them alone. The race to the draft-
ing-gate has to be of reasonable length, of
course, or he may not be able to see the
ears until the sheep is right up to him —
especially if it keeps its head under the one
in front, as often happens.
:|c * * *
“Glenfield”: The Mallee cocky (Vic.)
looks like getting his experimental and re-
search farm at last. One of the last acts
of the Allan Government was to grant appro-
val for its establishment. There are many
Mallee problems which can be solved only on
Mallee soils and under its climatic condi-
tions. Farmers long realised that the breed-
ing of drought-resisting wheats and the dis-
tribution of pure selected seed would be of
incalculable benefit; up to the present they
have had to rely on one another for the
interchange of seed of their favorite varie-
ties, which have become impure or run out of
type. Other benefits to be derived are the
determination of best methods of cultivation
and manuring and rotation systems.
■J- -Jf *
“Y. Worry”: My experience is that silage
is a much over-rated food and has only one
merit —cheapness. I have fed sheep on
silage and lost most of them. I have
battled through on oaten-liay and oats and
saved them.
Hs * *
“Jesmond”: Turkeys are the biggest nui-
sance a farmer can inflict himself w r ith.
They are gross feeders, and if not liand-fed
will keep so poor travelling the country look-
ing for food that they will not be fat enough
for the market. To make money out of
turkeys, the birds must be kept in large
grassed pens and fed on a well-proportioned
diet, and then I doubt if the game is worth
the candle.
-4c * * *
“Homo”: I would like to appeal to all
farmers in N.S.W. to put a ban upon quail-
sliooting. These birds do no harm whatever,
and a great deal of good. In a dry time,
when seed-wheat lies waiting for the rain,
a small cut-worm attacks it. Eating in
where the shoot should start, it destroys the
germ, thus preventing the seed from grow-
ing. Patchy wheat crops are the result.
These creatures are busy in a wet season
also, but the wheat shoots quicker then and
less ’damage is done. The quail eat these
worms, and, as they have probably a life-
cycle similar to moths, and as quails are
insectivorous, the winged parents of the
cut-worm are sure also to be destroyed by
the quail. As nearly all insects are harm-
ful to man and his crops, what a fool he
is to allow his little allies to be ruthlessly
shot!


HPhe first puff convinces you
of the superior quality of
10
for
Army Club
CIGARETTES
20
for
1/6
In pure ribbed watermarked rice paper.
CAVANDERS Ltd., London (Est. 1775), Pioneers of Hygienic Cigarette Packing.
m
IR
%
m
m
CORK-TIPPED
or PLAIN
SMOKE-OH!
Single-purposed flappers are hard to find.
* *
Dress weighs very little with the present-
day girl.
* *
When a girl has a boy to take care of her
she makes light of the dark.
* *
Women especially find that money has lost
much of its value. A bob costs them about
four these days.
ACCORDING TO INSTRUCTIONS.
THE PARSON: “My dear, I saw that-man kiss you.
What did you do?” ■
HIS DAUGHTER : “I turned the other cheek, father.”
Australian girls bare themselves with a
good deal of natural dignity.
Some women paint their faces to improve
their chances; others get there just as suc-
cessfully by plain cheek.
There are fewer divorces in Sweden and
Japan than in any other countries. The
lands of safety-matches.
It is the lazy man who is most frequently
fired with enthusiasm.
* *
It is a curious scientific fact that the
later in the day it is, the harder the average
man finds it to pass a given spot.
* #
“They’re such a well-matched couple.” the
friend of both families explained, after a
recent Sydney wedding. “One’s a budding
genius and the other a blooming fool.”
* *
If girls wear longer dresses—
And some folks wish they would —
I’ll have one consolation :
My memory’s very good.
N.s.w. R. J. F.
The Australian Government has acknow-
ledged the King’s interest in the establish-
ment of Canberra. John Bull will also
derive considerable interest from it.
* *
Maoriland advices state that rabbiters in
Otago are making up to £5O per week. We
can guess now why the poet associated banks
and bunny braes.
❖ ❖
The divorce respondent who said that he
left his wife because she would neither cook,
sew nor do the housework deserves sym-
pathy. Most men when they wed expect
to be married and done for.
* *
Grammar rules revised: Headache is the
feminine of club in the excusitive case. Bor-
rowing is an art with some people; lending
to others is a gift.
LOOKING FORWARD.
DAD: “I hope you appreciate the jact, sir, that marrying
my daughter you marry a large-hearted, generous
girl?”
THE OTHER : “I do, sir, and I hope she inherits those
qualities from her father.”
Our pleasure, ’tis said,
With pain comes:
Even breakfast in bed
Hath its crumbs !
* *
The average girl doesn’t care what sort
of a pill a young man is as long as his
chocolates are worth a guinea a box.
SJC &
The Sydney tramway system is responsible
for a lot of strapping young men.
Sfc. ❖
Modern girls are ambitious; still they
don’t mind the young men running rings
around them.
❖ ❖
Even the sagest bachelor does not know
as much as the benedict. Matrimony gives
a man a lot of wrinkles.
* *
Most women like the theatre’s bright
lights; but some of them get their most,
delicious thrills in the boudoir’s scandal-
light.
“Some of them bank blokes is pretty slick
with their fingers,” Sam Sattiday told us
when he came back from his great visit to
the city. “See a feller down in the Bank o’
Adelaide, and blow me if ’e didn’t ’ave to
keep a wet sponge alongside ’im to stop ’is
fingers from gittin’ red ’ot. ’E tol’ me so
hisself.”
A physician states that women need more
sleep than men. No doubt it’s because they
are done up so often.
“Milf” : Two of the dearest friends in the
world were looking at some fashionable
clothes in a Pitt-street store the other day.
Said one, as she handled a magnificent coat:
“I really must get this. It will suit me
exactly!” “Yes, you should, darling,” said
the other. “It will make you look 20 years
younger, at least!” A moment’s icy silence
was broken with a soft, purring voice
which said : “Well, what about you buying
it, instead, dear—and we’ll be taken for
twins!”
As soon as a man gets on his feet he buys
a car to get off them.
Road-hogs are motorists who don’t try to
save other people’s bacon.
lie looked at her and cauterize;
She looked at him just sauterwize;
She threw the bait—“ He’s shauterize,
Then he'll be mine untilhedize.”
“R.J.F.”: An optimist is
a man who burns down a
Jew’s house in the hope that
Isaae’ll lose by it.
* *
Aviator Lindbergh says
that when he sighted Ireland
lie felt lie was on the right
track. Subsequently he real-
ised he was right, beyond
Erin.
❖ £
“Verri”: When it was
found that the outbreak of
swine fever in N. S. Wales
would prohibit the exhibition
of pigs this year, a country
paper, referring to a well-
known local judge in that
section, remarked tactfully:
“Owing to the ban on pigs,
Mr. Blank will not go to
Sydney for the Show this
year.”
* *
“Calamus” : A medical pal
of mine was attending an
old swaggie whose throat had
been cut by an affectionate
colleague. The old man was
apparently not long for this
world, and the medico hastily
called for a stimulant.
“Brandy, wine, tea—any-
thing, quickly!” he said. A
few moments later a sympa-
thetic helper appeared with
a cup of tea in one hand and
a sugar-bowl in the other.
Bending over the almost
moribund patient, she asked:
“Er —do you take sugar?”
The traveller knows better —it’s a short
road that has no turn-in.
The engagement was broken. The sweet young
thing
Sent the young man back his diamond
ring.
And she got a bit of her own back there,
For she labelled the package, “Glass, with
care.”
A LINGERING ONE.
“You’ve been drinking, Beryl!”
“No—only kissing.”
LOST INTEREST.
“When he asked for my hand,”
Said the maid to her dad,
“Was lie simple and bland
Or ardent and glad?
On his knees did he fall?”
Dad said: “Couldn’t tell.
Didn’t notice at all
Where the young puppy fell.”
victoria. E. T.
SATURDAY AFTERNOON.
It’s crool —it’s flamin’ crool: that’s wot it is!
’Ere’s me ’as got a meet fixed wiv me tart;
I’m goin’ ter spend the afternoon wiv Liz,
Dressed all regardless, feelin’ real smart;
And in 'e strolls (the bald ole swine) an’,
says,
“A press o’ work —bad luck!” —an’ ’ere I
stays.
The bald old blighter wiv ’is ’ead all shine!
I’d like ter tell ’is wife some things I’ve
’eard ;
I’d like ter put the lid on ’im, the swine!
But if I did I’d only get the bird.
Yes, in ’e strolls—“bad luck” —and ’ere I
stays ;
And, Gawd, it ain't ’arf ’ard these sorter
days!
The sun is shinin’ and the skies is blue—
I wonder-if young Liz’ll really care?
I’d like ter bet that while I’m toilin’ now
Some crawlin’ swine’ll come an’ pirit ’er,
And “nothin’ doin’ ” when w T e meet again—
Gorblime, but it gives a bloke a pain !
Aw well, I got me stamps ter lick. I s’pose;
It’s no good lookin’ fer the blackest side;
But it fair gives a bloke the dinkum joes,
The sort o’ feelin’ I got in me ’ide
That someone else’s walkin’ out wiv Liz
While I’m stuck ’ere. It’s crool; that’s wot
it is.
N.S.W.
A. D. M.
THE APPARITION.
Wirewhiskers had just done in the last
bob of his shearing cheque, and Bung was
through with him.' “Go down ther cellar an’
get me a bottle of rum orff the shelf over
the door,” he said to Bill the barman. Then :
“ ’Ere yer are,” lie snapped when Bill came
back, “ ’ere’s a bottle a rum and get ter ’Ell
outer me bar.”
Next day Bung dropped down into “Hell-
hole” to dope some drink. He missed a bottle
of sulphuric acid that had owned a reserved
stall on the shelf over the cellar-door.
“Hey, Bill,” he roared up the cellar-steps—
“where’s me dope bottle?”
“What d’ yer mean?” replied Bill ; “I ain’t
seen no dope.”
“Where d’d yer get the bottle from I give
ter Wirewhiskers?” Bung asked uneasily.
“From the middle of th’ shelf over the
cellar-door,” said Bill.
Bung turned the color of
a sun-scorched new potato,
and the following morning
took to drinking his own
brand of rum. Three days
later he began to see green
kangaroos, purple snakes
and all-red black cockatoos
hopping about the bar. Once
a policeman darkened the
doorway with a licensing
notice. Bung was on the
point of confessing to the
murder of Wirewhiskers by
administering poison, but his
tongue jambed on the roof
of his mouth.
“Seen Wirewhiskers
about lately?” asked the
policeman.
“No —-er—(not —er —fer —-
years munce,” stammered
Bung, paling.
“Can’t make it out,” mut-
tered the John “Casey,
across the road, said he saw
him going into your pub a
month ago, just after Ivurri-
ana cut out.”
“ ’E’s a flamin' liar!” said
Bung; but, all the same,
when the policeman left
Bung saw a man with white,
scared, sightless eyes dang-
ling from a noose. “Serve
the cow right,” he heard the
crowd beside the scaffold say
—“wasn’t satisfied wiv get-
tin’ a poor bloke’s money,
but ’e must stick sulphuric
acid in his grog—ther mur-
derin’ cow.”
Next day Bung, leaning-
over his bar, seeing double-
headed purple kangaroos,
awoke with a start. An
apparition slipped in and
glided over to the bar.
“Get back, get back!”
screamed Bung—“back, back to ther grave.
I never meant ter pizen yer—so ’elp me
Gord !”
“ ’Ere, cut it hout,” replied the appari-
tion, “an’ give us a double-’eader rum.”
The word brought a gleam of light into
Bung’s bleary eyes, as he gazed at the long
black batter of hair that dropped from the
stranger's chin to the fourth button of a
greasy vest.
“D’yer remember me givin’ yer a bottle
er rum when yer was ere last?” eagerly
asked Bung.
“My oath, I do,” said Wirewlnskers.
“ ’Ow d’ yer git on with it? queried
Bung. . , ..
“Oh, it was all right in a way. But blnne !
every time I corfed me whiskers caught
fire,” drawled the apparition.
SUCRE.
NOBLESSE OBLIGE.
With hair dishevelled, face all white,
A lady knelt before a knight.
“My husband is an ogre grim;
These bruises are a gift from him.
Oh. rescue me, Sir Knight, I pray,
And I will bless you every day.”
The knight, who’d made his pile in jute
And bankruptcies and other loot,
Puffed his fat jowl and fumed and stormed ;
Said: “Madam, you are misinformed.
What would folk say—my wife —the press—
If I helped damsels in distress?
I got me ‘sir’ for what I done
For Premier .Tenks in ’91.”
N.S.w.
HYRAM.


Overland
Down
WHIPPET
in Price.
si
*v
35 miles on an Imperial gallon of
petrol.
55 miles and more per hour.
5 to 30 miles an hour in 13 seconds.
4 wheel brakes . . . stops in 51 feet
from a speed of 40 miles an hour.
Turns in 34 foot circle . . . easy to
steer.
5 feet 9 inches high . . . lower centre
of gravity . . . ample road clearance
. . . greater road safety.
Smart body lines . . , long-life satin-
finish of beautiful duotone duco.
y
r
55,070 Whippets in the first 4 months is a success-
record unequaled by any other new car. The
Whippet has already established a new, revolutionary
trend in light car design that all others must follow
or be swept into oblivion.
It has taken Overland engineers 3 years to design,
develop and perfect this new-type motor car. What
the Whippet offers you now cannot be obtained in
any other light car for years to come.
The Whippet gives you more power—more speed—*
more safety—more comfort—and more beauty than
the world has been accustomed to getting in ordi-
nary light cars.
In fairness to yourself you must see this remarkable
new-type car—drive it—feel the thrill of power-per-
formance that thousands now would not part with*
f 4 Yw OVERLAND .
yyhippet
Body styles — Touring, Roadster, 2-door Coach,
Overland Sydney, Ltd., 148-150 Castlereagh Street, SYDNEY.
Overland Victoria Pty., Ltd., 117-121 Lonsdale Street, MELBOLIRNE.
Overland South Australia, Ltd., 236-258 Victoria Square, ADELAIDE.
E. G. Eager & Son, Ltd. Breakfast Creek Road, Newstead, BRISBANE.
H. C. Heathorn & Co., Ltd., HOBART and LAUNCESTON.
Adams Motors, Ltd., 442-446 Murray Street, PERTH.
Dealers and Service Everywhere .
WILLYS • OVERLAND
MOTOR
CARS
• FINE •


ê
Are you
saving money
by
Cycling ?
A LL those daily journeys by tram, train or ’bus
would be much more pleasant and healthy
on a bicycle, while the saving in fares would repay
the cost of the bicycle many times over. The
journeys now made on foot could also be accom-
plished much more quickly and pleasantly on a
bicycle. And time saved means money saved.
Be sure, however, that your bicycle is built with
B.S.A. Cycle Fittings, and you will find its first
cost is practically its last. The high quality and
consistent reliability of B.S.A. Cycle Fittings will
ensure many years of trouble-free riding. Every
component is guaranteed perfect and inter-
changeable. There is a suitable set of B.S.A.
Fittings for every type of bicycle.
Racing cyclists specify
B.S.A. Austral Fittings
Designed in response to request from the
world’s leading track and road-racing cyclists,
the B.S.A. “Austral” set of racing fittings
includes special tubing, resulting in a frame
1 olb. lighter than the average racing frame,
without loss of strength; B.S.A. “drop-out”
rear fork ends, and other special B.S.A. fea-
tures. Follow the example of the world’s lead-
ing racing men and specify B.S.A. “Austral”
Fittings.
A
A bicycle built with a set
of B.S.A. Austral Fittings
Bicycles Built of Genuine
I
V
Cycle Fitting's
Are obtainable from all cycle agents throughout Australia
SEND FOR THE B.S.A. FITTINGS HANDBOOK AND “ AUSTRAL ” LEAFLET
D. Y. RENNIE (Factory Representative), 49 Elizabeth Street, Melbourne.
Have your bicycle fitted with an Eadie Coaster Hub


CYMA
KNOWN ALLOVERTHE WORLD
AS THE BEST TIME KEEPER
SOLD BY ALI JEWELLERS
THE WOMAN S MIRROR”
Contains everything that women should know, from kitchen to
drawing-room, from the cradle to old age.
FREE PATTERN EVERY WEEK.
It is the most remarkable Threepennyworth ever printed.
‘THE WOMAN’S MIRROR."
PUBLISHED EVERY TUESDAY,
Price
3d.
m
©
L~k f~ .h. Trademark! *«•*» E«r,wh.r..
Write for lllustrateri CdUlogec.
y£e The Ever-Ready Co. (Gt. Britain) Ltd.
163 Pin Street, Sydney
When the Devil Came to Malo.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
THERE was not a breath of wind as we
left Darwin just after sunrise, and the
twenty-ton cutter was chugging along
under the power of her auxiliary engine.
It grew hotter as the sun got higher, and
Bill, the cutter’s owner, remarked as he came
on deck, “A cool drink on old Hartley’s ver-
andah will be good-oh when we arrive at the
mission.”
I agreed. “Hartley’s a hospitable old
chap, always has a cool drink and a com-
fortable shakedown for visitors to the mis-
sion.”
“Yes,” said Bill, “it’s a pity the old chap’s
off his rocker. He must spend a couple of
thousand a year on those darned nigger and
half-caste converts lie’s got up there on
Malo, and they’ll all go bush the minute the
old man dies.”
I had done a fair amount of business with
Hartley in the five years I had spent at
Darwin, buying pretty nearly all the pro-
duce of his island —pearl-shell and pearls, tre-
pang and troclius, and all sorts of island stuff
—no great quantities, but amounting to a
respectable sum of money in the course of a
year. I had never noticed any sign of mad-
ness in the old man, especially
where it was a matter of buying
or selling, and said as much to
Bill.
“Oh no, lie can take care of
himself in anything concerning
cash; it’s religion that’s got
him,” explained Bill.
“He used to be about the
toughest specimen un here
about 25 years ago. when all
were pretty tough. Hartley was
so tough that the police had just
made up their minds to give him
notice to get out of the Territory
by the next boat, or to go in-
side for a spell if he didn’t.
“Just at this time someone
died and left Hartley a pot of
money. We expected he’d beat it
for England immediately, but he
didn’t. Seemed to go barmy
straight awav. He took up Malo
and in six months had started
the mission.
“The police were suspicious of
him at first, thinking the mission
was only a blind for opium-run-
ning or something of that sort;
but a few years satisfied them
that he was running straight,
and even doing some good among
the niggers and half-castes. The
boys from Hartley’s mission are
all pretty fair workers. Differ-
ent from these other civilised
swine.” Bill spat over the side
as he glanced at the half-caste
boy at the wheel, for natives
and half-castes who had been at
mission were Bill’s pet aversions.
“None of us suspected that
there w T as anything wrong with
Hartley until he went over and
nearly killed two priests who
started a mission station on the
mainland opposite Malo. We
woke up then to the fact that he was a reli-
gious maniac. He’s not dangerous now,
although he still hates the Romans like
poison.”
We rounded Batu Point and could see the
low cliffs of Malo in the distance. “Go
down and see if you can’t kick her ahead a
bit faster,” I suggested. “I’m perishing for
a cold drink, and we’ll get one as soon as
we arrive.”
Bill went below, and soon the cliug-chug of
the engine changed to put-put-put and we
began to move faster. In a couple of hours
we were alongside the small jetty at the
mission station.
We went ashore. Passing through a belt of
cocoanut-trees on the beach we entered the
garden surrounding the mission house, plea-
santly shaded by huge mango-trees.. The huts
of the converts, the small chapel and the
store sheds stood at some distance from it.
Lime-trees, pawpaws and bananas grew
beside the white shell-covered paths.
As we stepped on the concrete verandah a
strong smell or antiseptics replaced the per-
fume of the lime blossom which surrounded
the house. We stood some moments at the
door and no one appeared. “Strange,” I
thought, “they must have seen us coming;
I wonder if anything’s wrong?” We were
about to enter the house when an elderly
white woman in nurse’s attire came round
the corner of the verandah. Some years
previously she had been engaged by Hartley
to look after the sick converts.
“I’m sorry no one was here to meet you,
but Mr. Hartley has had a bad accident and
I’ve been busy attending to him,” she said,
leading us to where Hartley lay, on the side
verandah. He had broken his leg the night
before. The nurse had managed to set it
for him, however; and he was now fairly
comfortable. He refused our offer to take
him to Darwin. “The doctor there could
do no better than the nurse has done. The
leg will be all right in time. I can only
lie in bed and wait.”
Notwithstanding liis confidence as to his
recovery and his comparative comfort now
his injuries had been attended to, he appeared
worried and depressed as we sat chatting
to him. The matron had left us to attend
to her numerous duties after seeing our
wants in the liquid line supplied.
After a while Hartley began to tell us
of his worries. “You know,” he began,
“much as I detest and deplore the idolatrous
teachings of the fathers at the Catholic
Mission in Klapar Bay, I had at last come
to believe they were sincere in their pro-
fessions and practised a form of Christianity.
They might in time be led to abandon their
idolatrous practices, become good Protestants
and be worthy disciples to lead our darker
brethren on the right path.
“With this end in view I had of late
years been on terms of courtesy, if not
friendship, with them.
“As you know, we have both for some
time been building up flocks of Angora goats.
They thrive here, and mohair will be our
most valuable product when our flocks are
large enough to warrant its export. Iligh-
CALF LOVE.
class Angoras are expensive; and being
solely dependent on my own means I have
only been able to purchase a few, from
which I have bred until I have now a flock
of a couple of hundred.
“The Klapar Bay people, who receive Gov-
ernment assistance and are a very wealthy
concern, have a large flock. They have
added to it from time to time some valuable
stud animals.
“Two years ago I was of considerable
service to them in certain matters. In
return they presented me with a magnificent
black billy-goat—one of the finest and most
valuable animals they had. Its value was
so far in excess of any reasonable return
for my services that I hesitated to accept
it. Would that I had never seen the
animal!
“Thinking it but a friendly gift, I at last
accepted. I do not even now believe that
the fathers gave me that goat, of their own
volition. The powers of evil they serve
moved them to the gift. Mere human malice
would not be so deep.
“Prior to the arrival on the island of the
black goat, the undisputed master of my
flock was a splendid white billy we had
christened Wilfrid. The new arrival, despite
repeated battles, could not shake his supre-
macy, but easily defeated all the other billies
of the flock. In a little while he and Wilfrid
reigned over about half the flock each, fight-
ing bitterly whenever they met.
“A succession of misfortunes has visited
the island during the past two years. We
have had a bad epidemic of measles, several
of our natives dying. Six of our young
unmarried girl-converts have had babies.
Some of our boys have been imprisoned for
cattle-killing on the mainland. Our crops
have almost entirely failed. The worst of
all is, however, that some of the boys are
making toddy from the coconut palms, and
I cannot detect them. They are rapidly
changing the converts from a sober, God-
fearing community to one of debauched
drunkards.
“Of course I never connected our mis-
fortunes with that black billy-goat. No sane
man would.
“Last night I stood on the edge of the
cliff at the bottom of the garden, looking over
the bay. I wms deep in thought and worry
over the drunkenness on the island. I heard
a violent scuffle on the beach about 30 feet
below me. In the clear moonlight I saw
Wilfrid and the black goat engaged in the
fiercest of all their struggles. As I looked,
it came to me in a flash! The powers of
light and darkness were engaged in a struggle
for mastery before me there, on the
beach!
“I knelt and prayed that Wilfrid should
prevail. Alas I my prayers were useless.
In a little time the champion of Light and
Right was fleeing, his black enemy in hot
pursuit. I remained on my knees, lost in
prayer. I may even have slept thus.
“Something from behind struck me with
terrific force. I came to my senses just
long enough to realise I was falling. I
remembered no more until the boys picked
me up on the beach this morning—injured
as you see me now.
“I remembered all that had happened.
Without a doubt the Klapar Bay mission,
in league with the powers of evil, had sent
an emissary to destroy us all on Malo. That
black goat was one of the familiars of Hell,
if not Satan himself. I despaired at first
on realising it. but now I see light. I will
continue the fight. None are so far gone
as to be beyond redemption. It may be
my lot to convert”
A huge, black billy-goat swaggered round
the end of the verandah. A more depraved-
looking animal we had never seen. Vice,
debauchery and triumph shone from his eyes
as he rolled along the verandah, rested his
beard on the foot of the bed, and gazed at
his victim.
Poor Hartley fairly shrunk under the
sheets, an agonised expression on his face.
The goat continued to glare for some seconds
until Bill reached for him with his boot.
Withdrawing his gaze from Hartley, the
animal gave a malevolent glance at Bill and,
turning, swaggered off down the garden
path, stopping to chew our discarded cigar-
butts on the way.
“Did you see that? He means to have
me and will not even wait for me to die
in peace,” quavered the terrified Hartley.
“He has never before come near this ver-
andah.”
Seeing how genuinely terrified the old
chap was, I suggested getting rid of the
animal per shotgun.
“For God’s sake, no! It’s bad enough
to have him here in the flesh. His spirit
would be worse. None of my converts recog-
nise Satan in his present guise. If they
once knew the Spirit of Evil was on the
island they would leave me, never to return.
I must fight my fight alone.”
Business and common decency to the in-
valid made Bill and me accept his invitation
to remain with him until he felt a bit
stronger.
A few hundred yards from the house stood
a shed containing the 20-h.p. oil-engine
which pumped water and supplied the mis-
sion with light. The door of the shed was
always kept shut —the spinning fly-ivheel
and moving belting being considered a dan-
gerous attraction for the many piccaninnies
at the mission.
This shed had long been a centre of attrac-
tion for Satan. On the engine being started
lie invariably came at full gallop to inquire
into the insulting phut-phut-phut of the
exhaust. On these occasions he would circle
the shed two or three times, butting viciously
at the door each time he passed it, and then
retire.
A few days after our arrival the half-
caste boy in charge left the shed door open
after starting the engine. Satan arrived
at a gallop. He halted opposite the open
door and surveyed the machinery. That
shining, fast-spinning fly-wheel was undoubt-
edly the animal making that insulting phut-
phut which had annoyed him so long. Once
he had vanquished that animal he would
be undisputed ruler of the island.
Satan turned and walked
about 20 yards from the door.
Turning again, he took a
final glance at the fly-wheel,
lowered his head and charged.
The half-caste’s terrified yell
brought us all running to the
door of the shed. The boy
crouched in a corner. A black
mass whirled around with the
fly-wheel, striking the cement
door violently at every turn.
I shut off the oil and the
engine stopped. From between
the spokes of the fly-wheel 1 dis-
entangled the remains of a valu-
able black Angora billy-goat.
Satan’s neck was broken, so was
pretty nearly every other bone
in his body.
Returning to the house we
broke the news to Hartley. He
took it quietly.
“I am glad I did not let you
shoot the animal. A greater than
human nower has intervened. I
must return thanks and ask for-
giveness for having doubted, even
in my worst moments, that help
would fome at need.”
Hartley must have been right.
From the death of Satan Malo
returned to righteousness and
prosperity. Bill and 1 caught
three of the boys brewing palm
toddy and took them down to
Darwin with us, where they got
six months each. The crops im-
proved immediately, and in the
next two years there was only
one child born to an unmarried
girl on the island. The mother
had seen the error of her ways
and had left the Klapar Bay
mission a couple of months
prior to the event.
I don’t know if that black goat really was
Satan, but he certainly looked darned like
him.
BAOMATA.
Memories.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“When all our children have grown up,” said
he,
“We’ll build the house you want; standing
aloof,
With deep bay windows swept by breezes
free.
And ingle-nooks, and cosy-nestling roof;
With wide verandahs where the sunbeams
bright
May roam at will throughout each sunny
day;
And round the house the creepers will de-
light.
With robes of green, to deck our garden
gay.”
But she was silent, and her eyes withdrew
For one swift moment from her busy hands
To meet the firelight glow. Full well she
knew,
Bereft of dreams, his house would empty
stand
Of all that makes a home —the ingle-nooks
For e’er endeared by voices of the past,
The smiling faces, and the care-free looks
Of little children who had grown so fast.
VICTORIA.
PHILO.


*57
c
VELVET
SHAVING STICK
I
Molofislf —
Are delighted with the
speed and smooth run-
ning qualities of their
razors when they lather
with
VELVET
SHAVING STICK
■S.f ttl i. KITCHEN h SONS PTY. LTD.
A GUN BUILT FOR AUSTRALIAN CONDITIONS
.
£2l
Post
Free
bv WEBbEY & SCOTT, the makers of the world-famous British Service Revolver: of the same
excellent materials and high standard of workmanship; and balance and finish superior to many
guns of double the price. „,, , , , . c nn „i n v
30in barrels of Special Steel; bored full choke in both or full and modified; Anson A I’ecicy
in tion, Greener cross-bolt, automatic safety, and the high engine-turned nb so desirable tot
close sighting. The half-pistol grip stock is composed of straight-(/rained English walnut, tine
chequered, and the modest hand engraving on the action parts is in keeping with vne
symmetrical appearance of the gun.
COWLES & DUNN, Gunmakers, 453 Kent Street, Sydney.
’Phone: M 3388. Write for Catalogue “B.”
Exchange must he added to country cheques.
Heady in a moment
" always haOe
e
in the home
it is so handy
In 4 sizes
of all Chemists & Stores
Our Service Department
This page is set apart for the service of Bulletin readers.
If you want anything, including information, you are invited to write to the
Service Department.
The service is entirely free. All you have to do is to attach the coupon from the
inside back cover of last Bulletin to hand.
Readers obliging with replies need not attach coupons.
The right of selection and rejection is reserved.
To facilitate search it is desirable that questions be asked on only one subject at
a time.
Wants.
(Replies should be sent to the number
set against the “Want,” c/o Service
Department, RULLETIN.)
Billet in Malay States or elsewhere on a
rubber plantation or tin-mining. Fifteen
years’ exp. in Singapore and F.M.S. as
wharf-clerk, assistant on various rubber
estates, also storekeeping (engineering and
estate) ; speak Malay fluently, 35. High
refs. —482.
Young English couple, with child, 1 year,
seek position, station preferred; man chef-
valet, houseman-waiter : can drive car. Wife,
nurse, housemaid-waitress, needlewoman,
first-class credentials; go anywhere; dis-
engaged June 30. —-498.
Working partner for veg. garden, about two
ac.; lease 20 ac., 15 years at £5 p.a.; 80-odd
fruit-trees; country town; engine, windmill,
good hut and plant; perm, water, first-class
market. —510.
Certified accountant, 20 years’ banking
exp., strong literary tastes, like evening oc-
cupation. Literary prof.—4B3.
Whereabouts of Thomas Downie, who left
Curlwaa (N.S.W.) Nov.. 1920, for Euston
and Sea Lake. Age about 60,- —473.
One thousand merino wethers on half-
wool agistment basis. Abundant grass and
water. Close Warwick (Q.). Owner to
deliver. —458.
Wool- or sheep-classing. Contract small
sheds on overhead-charge basis. Twenty-five
years’ exp. wool trade. All eastern States. —-
467.
Gardener, flowers, fruit, vegetables, wants
pos., large garden or orchard. Ret’d soldier,
married. Go anywhere.—4s4.
Lady-lielp wants place on station, N. S.
Wales; no cooking or washing; two years’
station reference. —511.
Grocer wants job, fine refs.; can take
charge ; knows all departments ; temperate ;
anywhere.—sl2.
To sell lease of island in Whitsunday Pas-
sage, six miles from mairiland ; two sq. miles ;
1000 banana plants and small orchard full
bearing; two rooms and verandah; virgin
soil scrub-land available. Lease 15 years
at £1 10s. p.a., 13 years to run; carry 500
to 750 sheep; £500: terms. —513.
Traveller, own car, doing South Australia,
desires good line, on Commission. —514.
To place healthy lad, 16, in engineering
shop to learn the trade. —505.
Position as book- or store-keeper on station,
N.S.W. or Q.; 30; ex-soldier (Imperial),
slightly disabled; was an inspector of taxes,
so have good accounting knowledge; had a
year's country experience in M.L. Now in
Sydney.—sol.
Latest edition Rev. Webb’s “Celestial
Objects for Common Telescopes.”—so3.
Information Sought.
Is “Tatlmmnarra” an abo. word, and what
does it mean? —366.
Tatham means “young child” and narra
“a spear” ; so the word may mean a little-
fellow spear.
What is the century weed like? Where
can I procure berries? —22B.
Dr. Darnall Smith, director of Sydney
Botanic Gardens, says there are several so-
called “century” plants—thus Agave amcri-
cana (familiarly known as “American aloe”
or “century plant”), Gentaurea ccntaurium
and Erythrcea centaurium. The two latter
produce fine seeds, not “berries.” The
“American aloe” or “century plant” produces
bulbils. Probably in different parts of the
bush other plants are so called.
(I) When is Wattle Day? (2) Which
variety is the national dower? (3) llow
many varieties of wattle are there? (f)
Would one be able to acclimatise it in Eng-
land? —410.
(1) August 1. (2) No special species
has been selected. (3) Five hundred and
ninety in Australia. (4) A few species
are grown in sheltered positions in south
of England.
Row can I get rid of dandruff? —423.
Apply a pomade consisting of salicylic
acid 10 grains, precipitate of sulphur 15
grains, oil of bergamot 10 minims, yellow
vaseline loz.; leave for ten days, then sham-
poo well with coal-tar soap. Afterwards use
bay rum as a dressing. Repeat until cured.
/ am Hiring on a leasehold at £9 p.a., 30
years to ran. All buildings revert to owners
without compensation. They hare offered to
sell me the freehold. My neighbor paid £BOO
to secure his. It seems too much. What
would £BOO invested at 6 p.c. return me in 30
years? —449.
You cannot, of course, compel the owner to
sell. Rest course might be to get a valuation
and make an offer on that basis. £BOO in-
vested at 6 p.c. compound interest would be
worth £3BBO in 30 years. But you escape
tin’ rent of £9 p.a.; and £9 p.a. paid into a
fund earning oply 5 p.c. will amount to £597
in 30 years.
( 1 ) Are black-trackers part of our
police system? ( 2 ) How many in Vic.?
( 3 ) Anyone written a book about them? —
463.
(1) Yes. (2) Two Queensland aborigines
from Barambah Mission Station are in the
employ of the Vic. police as trackers, and
are stationed at the Stud Depot at Dande-
nong. They are not sworn-in as members of
the force. (3) Cannot trace any book de-
voted exclusively to trackers. J. Sadlier
(“Recollections of a Victorian Police
Officer”) devotes a chapter to them. A.
Wcinholt also makes incidental reference. A.
T. Magarey read an excellent paper on
“Tracking by the Australian Aborigine”
before the S.A. branch of the Royal Geo-
graphical Society (vol. 3, 1888-92, of their
Proceedings).
How can I remove paint or varnish from
cedar without burning or scraping off?— -466.
Bergers, the paint people, recommend “Sol-
void.” It is applied with a brush and
enables the paint film to be peeled off from
the wood shortly after application. Immedi-
ately after the old paint or varnish film has
been removed the surface should be given a
rub over with a benzine rag. This done and
the wood thoroughly dry, it is ready for the
application of further paint or varnish.
Where can I get an honest valuation of a
very old violin , Strad. model? Cost? —468.
A. E. Smith, 68 Hunter-street, Sydney.
No charge.
I have a vacant lot. The next-door owner
has built a cottage and fenced. He claims
half the cost on my side. I am advised that
until I build I am not responsible. Is that
right? —44B.
The Dividing-Fence Act (N.S.W.) re-
quires you to pay half the cost of the
dividing-fence whether you build on your
land or not.
(1) What capital would buy a news-
agency, etc., in the suburbs showing £l2 per
week for myself? (2) What is the best way
to buy? —477.
(1) From £l5OO to £l6OO. (2) Direct
negotiations with the man who is selling is
generally preferable. If you have any doubts
as to the value of a business, call in an
auditor.
The first five most prominent cars on the
American market, and what is the Nash's
popularity? Same as to the English—where
does the Morris Cowley stand? —474.
Presume by popularity you mean sales.
No authentic records available, but an esti-
mate based on various recent sales lists
places them in this order: —English: 1,
Morris Cowley and Oxford; 2, Austin; 3,
Armstrong-Siddeley ; 4, Talbot; 5, Standard.
American: 1, Chevrolet; 2, Hudson ; 3,
Essex ; 4, Ford ;5, Overland-Pontiac. Nash
is seventh. As the market fluctuates, the
placing is not permanent.
My young turkeys have developed swelled
heads and blindness. The swelling is chiefly
underneath and in front of the eyes, and
the eyes arc watery. —23o.
They are suffering from roup. The trouble
is probably caused by over-crowding in an
ill-ventilated poultry-house. Syringe the nos-
trils and corners of the eyes with peroxide.
If no other syringe is available, a machine
oilcan will do.
Is the Liberty Confectionery Course, adver-
tised in Sydney daily papers, a genuine
money-making proposition? Do they supply
their students with sufficient work in their
own homes to enable them to earn a living?
—475.
The co. tells the Service Department that
“many of its students who devote only their
spare time to sweets-making are earning £2
and £3 per week, and if a person is pre-
pared to devote her whole time to the work
she should find it very profitable.” But they
“'cannot allow students to forward just what-
ever sweets they please, as the co. would
not know what lines were coming forward
and would not be able to control their
stocks.” What orders they place with
their students we don’t know, though w r e
should be glad to learn.
Got a boy 17i, education neglected. Has
a gift for machinery. Want him to go to
Sydney to continue his schooling and work
as well. What can I dof —47B.
“Positions Vacant” columns of daily
papers regularly contain advertisements for
youths in garages and small machine-shops.
But he is hardly likely to get a job unless
he is on the spot. Supplement his work
with a course at the Technical College.
My husband died intestate in 1915 having
only ss. in savings bank. About five years
ago a letter came from his sister notifying
me of a deceased sister’s estate in which my
late husband was left a share. My husband's
mother died, too; as to whether he shared
in her estate T can get no information. Can
•non help? My children need money. —442.
If your late husband’s sister died after
her brother, then any legacy given under
her will solely to him would lapse. In the
absence of essential information it is not
possible to express an opinion as to the
mother’s estate. In view' of your financial
position, write to the Legal Aid office,
Queen’s Square, Sydney; furnish all parti-
culars giving full names, addresses and dates
and asking for advice and assistance.
(1) What is a stymie? (2) Does it apply
only in championship matches? (3) If it
applies to inter-club, can it be waived by
mutual consent? (4) In the event of A
being stymied by It, and A’s ball strikes It s ,
docs A 'lose the hole? (5) Our greens are
made of sand, 20 ft. radius. Are we in order
in inserting in our local rules “Greens shall
be known as an area 20 feet all round the
flag”? (6) What would be the approximate,
cost of getting a professional to lay out an
18-hole course? —443.
(1) When the player has his opponent’s
ball between his own ball and the hole. (2)
Applies to all matches ; but often by arrange-
ment stymies are not played. (3) In match-
play if A’s ball strikes B’s, trying to negotiate
a stymie, there is no penalty ; in stroke play if
A’s ball strikes B’s, A is penalised one stroke.
(4) Any local rule can be made as to the
size of greens, hut a radius of 20 yards from
the hole is regarded as “green. ’ (5) Cost
cannot be estimated without knowledge of
local conditions. Any of the metropolitan
clubs would help you.
What books should. I get to start to teach
myself navigation ? —493.
The Examiner, Dept, of Navigation, sug-
gests “Nicholl’s Concise Guide,” vol. 1 (18s.
6d.) ; obtainable from Turner and Hender-
son, Hunter-street, Sydney.
Schools in Sydney where a young man can
study (a) signwriting and designing, (b)
commercial art, (c) advertising? Are even-
ing classes held? Fees? —495.
East Sydney Technical College has even-
ing classes; £1 ss. per year. Advertising
practice is as yet taught only by the corres-
pondence schools. Write the 1.C.5.. 399
George-street, Sydney; or Stott’s Technical
College, O’Connell-street, Sydney.
1 am cutting firewood on A’s block and
my only way of getting it to rail is by taking
it on a track through B’s block. There was
another road, but it has never been used,
being insurmountable. Now li has blocked
the track, though I am told it has been used
for years—long before he bought the block.
I have about £l5O worth of wood ready to
shift. What, can I do? —461.
To establish your right of way over B's
block you would have to show user continu-
ous and without interruption, and that you
exercised such user as of right. To do so
would require the calling of much evidence
involving, probably, expense quite beyond
your means. Failure to establish your claim
would mean being cast in heavy costs. Why
not approach the owner, place your dilemma
before him. and offer to pay a reasonable
sum per annum for the privilege of using
the track ?
(1) Is any provision made for financial
assistance to a bona fide patentee? (2) What
can I, a poor man. do to get a patent relat-
ing to wharf and bridge construction on the
market? —484.
Griffith and Ilasell, of Sydney, advise us
that there is no provision in law* whereby
any official organisation ■ is empowered to
give financial assistance to inventors; the
only thing to do is to get assistance in re-
turn for an interest. As wharfage and
bridge construction here is almost entirely
in the hands of public bodies, apparently
the only course to pursue is for the patentee
to get in touch with the Works Department
or the Harbor Trust.
Information re treatment of varicose veins.
Have tried, bandaging and clastic stockings:
results not satisfactory. Some weeks ago I
read that a doctor was returning to Aus-
tralia with a new treatment, without opera-
tion. Anything in this? —476.
You require exercise as well to promote
the deep muscular circulation of the blood,
and thus take the strain off the superficial
varicose veins. Standing is very bad. Have
no fear about the results of operation. In
suitable cases this treatment is most satis-
factory. We have heard of the new treat-
ment of the doctor you mention, but have
no knowledge of any cases treated. Always
remember that the profession acknowledges
no such thing as a secret cure. Anyone who
discovers anything of importance writes of
it in the medical journals so that all may
read and learn.
For over three years my husband has been
employed as a permanent station-hand, resid-
ing on the station. He arrived home, and
in (jetting out of the sulky slipped and fell,
breaking his arm, and is now in hospital.
]s he entitled to compensationf —l79.
From the scanty information it is not
quite clear whether he is entitled to com-
pensation, but it is quite probable that he
is. Communicate with Workers’ .Compensa-
tion Commission, Bridge-street, Sydney, and
give full particulars, including the terms
and conditions of his employment, the hours
of his work, whether he is under a duty to
remain always on the premises and whether
any interruption or deviation occurred on
the journey home.
Information Supplied.
198. —To clean white Arctic fox fur, take
block magnesia and mix to a paste with
petrol (keep well away from naked fire).
Put fur on a large Turkish towel, then apply
paste evenly with a brush. Roll up in
towel and leave till dry. Shake and brush
well.—M.L.F.
257. —A few drops of methylated spirits
will put dried-up marking-ink in order
again. I have used this hundreds of times
and it has always done the trick for me. —R.
260. —To stop a bull going through fences
put a good copper ring in the nose, attach
7 inches of 3-Bin. or 7-16 in. short link chain
with a 4-way hook on the end, hooks to
be short and fairly open. The animal, in
putting its head through a fence, gets held
up. Take care to see the beast every day,
as it can get held up and perish.—Robt. Fer-
guson.
295.—A method to eradicate cockspur was
wanted. In my district there are thousands
of acres of the yellow. variety, and sheep-
farmers value them highly. If 295 must
eradicate them, continue working and stock-
ing will do it, but if you don’t let them
master yon they are worth having for summer
fodder, ‘especially on hay stubbles and spelled
land. The great thing is to get the stock on
them about the time they run up don t
leave them too late. —Tritice.
Does Anybody Know ?
I should like to get into touch with the
owners of Stanley steam-cars. Has any-
one tried water tube-boilers instead of the
Stanley fire tube-boiler? The trouble is in
getting steam up (and keeping it up), awl
/ fancy something must be wrong with the
furnace. —416.
Brief Answers.
A.C.: (1) Lincoln Records, Ltd.. 280 IMtt-
street, Sydney. (2) So far as we know, yes. (3)
When letters are undelivered they are returned to
sender. (4) Refund on money-order returned can
be obtained by making application at the p.o.
by w'hich it W'as issued.... M.A.B. : Write Vaughan
Marshall, Advance Films, c/o Herschell’s Pty., Ltd.,
31 Agnes-street, Jolimont (Vic.) ... .Edmonton:
Write to the Town Clerk, Municipal Chambers, Foots-
cray, who will let you know the Government valua-
tion. Or communicate with G. D. Langridge and Son,
28 Market-street, Melbourne. .. .G.H.8.: Whether the
investment is sufficiently protected depends on (1)
whether a mortgage has been executed (the mere
holding of the deeds means little or nothing) ; (2)
the value of the property R.N.: Cost is governed
by local conditions. Fees, regulated by Institute of
Architects, amount to 6 p.c. on cost of building....
S.M.D.: Education Department, Perth, conducts cor-
respondence courses in special subjects for those who
have left school. Also write J. E. Perrin, Inter-
national Correspondence School, Box 621 Perth....
J.W.M.: Hunt Bros., 248 Railway-parade, Kogarah
(N.S.W.) .. . .P.R.: It is possible ;it is also possible for
a rank outsider to win a Melbourne Cup. All depends
on the chances you are prepared to take. .. .Jim 8.:
Can only guess you mean either Fidelio (Positano—
Fides), a 16-year-old bay, believed to be somewhere
in Vic., or Fidelis (Blue Trout —Miss Robinson),
a 22-year-old, last heard of in W.A W.J.S.:
Write Vic. Dept, of Agriculture, Melbourne; Queens-
land Dept, of Agriculture, Brisbane.... 497 : “ ’Twas
brillig,” etc., is in Lewis Carroll’s “Alice Through a
Looking Glass” ; procurable almost any bookseller. ...
A.W.McG.: McNamara’s Bookshop, 103 Castlereagh-
street, Sydney S.L.: See leading article May 26.
F.J.H, : (1) Alfred H. Jackson, 349 Collins-
street, or Dunn, Son and Stone, 193 Collins-street.
Melbourne. (2) It will cost £2 2s. at most. (3)
No market here W.W.: The flotation was with-
drawn and application moneys were returned. (V here
possible, answers to other questions have beer
mailed.)


Vi
L
10
FOR TWELVE
MONTHS TERMS
•Ni
Counter
DISCOUNT
FOR CASH
m
Office
B
‘3d
a
&
u
•2
42
U
-52
Desk
Htth
31
4L
tiYKP,
-22
V.
a
WBL
M
u
m
A
Y
iv
Factory
4
□
□
O
Portable Adding Machine
In this new Burroughs machine, portability and low price make
it suitable alike to the smallest storekeeper and to the larger
oCCices and institutions. It is being used on counters, desks
and in factories and offices by more than 50,000 satisfied users.
It has all the regular features of the larger adding machines
and has an adding and listing capacity of i 9,449 19 11%.
Another Portable at .£4O, adds up to £999,999 19 11%.
Write for free trial on your own work.
Sole Dislributors:
IRA L. & A. C. BERK LTD.
CHALLIS HOUSE, MARTIN PLACE, SYDNEY.
FL 2071
(5 Lines.)
Sydney Melbourne Adelaide Brisbane Hobart Perth
Newcastle Rockhampton Auckland Dunedin Christchurch IVellington
IRA L. & A. C. BERK LTD.
Please send me a Burroughs Portable for a
week’s free trial on my own work.
Name
Address -
Business QPlljr


New Peaks
of speed, power and safety
z"'
If
/r m n
■ y/
/
s {
4P
s
J
yes, Everyone says
Nothing like it
—in the World~
Super-Six principle long held in check
now released to full capacity--
PRACTICALLY
70 %
Australian
Built
Under this combination of
resources, American and
Australian industry has
achieved manufacturing
economies that no other
builder for the Australian
market shares.
Essex 5-Pass. Speedster £255
Essex 4-Door Sedan. . . 345
Essex Coach 325
Essex 2-Pass. Speedabout
Hudson 7-Pass. Touring
Hudson Roadster ....
Hudson Standard Coach
Hudson Brougham ....
Hudson 7-Pass. Sedan. .
Hudson 5-Pass. Sedan. .
Hudson Standard Sedan
Prices at some points slightly
higher.
In appearance and value, as well
as performance, Hudson is the most
talked of car of the year. Everyone
is saying there is “nothing like it
in the world.”
The Super-Six has the smoothness
of an electric motor. Four years
development led to full release of
its capacity in power, stamina and
safety. It led to a new chassis cap-
able of safely using the wide range
and long life of the motor. New
driving delights resulted. From
the effortless smoothness with
which the Super-Six whisks you
into motion, to the carefree way in
which you may make any trip
from a journey down-town to a
run across the continent, there
remains throughout the zest of
driving that is possible only to its
elastic and smooth flow of power.
Your Hudson Super-Six never
extends itself. It always has
reserve power for the approaching
hill or for greater speed. And its
four-wheel brakes with the flexi-
bility of the motor permit a flash-
ing nimbleness you will like.
The development of Hudson led
also to the creation of the Essex
Super - Six, a counterpart in
general appearance, smoothness,
comfort, quality, easy riding and
safety. Both are engineered to
low operation and maintenance
cost. The bodies are of such
variety and beauty as will satisfy
all demands for luxury and exclu-
siveness as well as comfort and
price advantage.
HUDSON-ESSEX
THE HUDSON MOTOR CAR COMPANY, Detroit, Michigan, U.S.A.
DALGETY & CO., LTD..
Phillip Street, Sydney.
MOTORS, LIMITED,
Flinders Street, Adelaide.
VEAL’S MOTORS PTY., LTD..
Exhibition Street, Melbourne.
AUTOS, LTD.,
Hay Street, Perth-
WHATMORE, McINTOSH MOTORS, LTD.,
Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
H. C. HEATHORN & CO., LTD..
Hobart, and Launceston.
DEALERS EVERYWHERE—BUY FROM YOUR LOCAL DEALER.


for Men who Care
s»
Men's Haoannak
Calf Shoe, circular
Vamp, mock caps ~
calf lined; also in*
tan calf and patent
colt.
PITT ST Opp.lattersaU’s Club -
For They are Jolly Good Fellows.
RESCH’S
LAGER, DINNER ALE,
PILSENER & STOUT.
RESCH'S
BITTER ALE,
AUSTRALIA'S BEST BITTER.
A nd so say all of us.
Western Australian Distributors:
BURNS, PHILP & CO., LTD., PERTH AND GERAI DTON. n
SPORTING
NOTING
Under the Whip
llinchinbrook (Mountain King—La
Penna) is one of those mares that do better
in the winter than in any other season.
This time last year, in the space of nine
days, the big black was second in the Moore-
field Handicap at Kogarah, first in the
Winter Handicap at the same place, and
first in the A.J.C. Ellesmere Handicap, 10-
furlong races all three. A close third to
Royal Sun and Octember in the Canterbury
Cup on May 28 suggested that she had
struck, or Avas about to strike, her form of
12 months ago, so there was good money
for her, at 9 to 2 and half a point shorter,
in the Rosehill Handicap at the course of
that name on Saturday, Octember being
favorite at 3to 1. Toohey tried to steal the
race on Cyron (7 to 1), but the task was
too great for the Cyrus gelding, though he
beat six of the eight starters; Hinchin-
brook, flashing tip on the inside, won nicely
by half a length, with Oyllene Laddie (10
to 1) third, two lengths away; the 10 fur-
longs were traversed in 2min. 7sec. The
two races preceding Hinchinbrook’s went to
young horses that have also shown con-
sistency—the Juvenile Stakes to Welina (6
to 4) and the Three-Year-Old Handicap to
Bunkum (3 to 1), who was followed home
by rather taking sorts in Frances Oyllene
(12 to 1), a daughter of the English-bred
Oyllene More out of an American mare, and
Ivoorathella (33 to 1), by Sarchedon —Sweet
Malt. The rest of the programme was in
favor of the ringmen, Suncoil, though quoted
at 12 to 1, giving most of them a “skinner”
in the Maiden Hurdle, while there was no
great amount of support for Somnolent (7
to 1) in the Flying Welter or Valparaiso
(6 to 1) in the Rydalmere Mile, compara-
tively short though their prices were.
* * *!* *
As usual, the A.J.C. got a poor race for its
£2OOO Hurdle. There were only seven
starters, tAvo of which might as well have
been in their stables for all the chance they
had; and the Leger jump proved fatal to
Altergo, who limped about in agony on three
legs, the other being badly broken, till he
was led to the grandstand fence and there
shot. After this sickening spectacle, most
of the spectators Avere relieved when the
rest of the field struggled home in the usual
straggling order. Grosveuor (3 to 1) won
by five lengths from Micronesia (5 to 1), Avho
was seven lengths in front of Piratic. The
winner, who is owned by A.J.C. committee-
man Pat Osborne, now abroad, is a good cut
of a hurdler, but after the Altergo incident
many of the people who go to Randwick will
never want to see him in action again, nor
any other hurdler for that matter. Indeed, the
efforts of the A.J.C. to popularise jumping
races have been so poorly supported by
owners and trainers, and attended with so
many accidents, that there is an overwhelm-
ing case for cutting out these useless and
dangerous events. In the First Steeple, which
went to the Victorian horse Epergne (6 to
1), with Mendit (5 to 1) and Pompene (JO
to 1) in the places, four of the nine starters
failed to finish. Goddard, rider of Altergo,
was taken to hospital with a fractured collar-
bone and minor injuries; Leonard, who had
a nasty fall when the Adelaide horse Unohoo
came dowm in the Steeple, sustained con-
cussion, but was apparently all right again
at the end of the day.
B. R. Payton, who trains the Osborne
horses, led in another winner on behalf of
the absent committeeman —Triplex (14 to 1)
in the Ellesmere Handicap. On form it
Avas impossible to fancy this Ivenilwortu
gelding, who had been twice beaten during
the previous fortnight in inferior company,
yet he finished fast over the last furlong of
10, run in 2min. 6Jsec., and cut Octember
(10 to 1 )and the ancient Llantliony (12 to
1) out of the big money. Then Quixotic
(14 to 1), who races in Mrs. Osborne’s
colors, was a good second to Boaster (6 to
1) in the June Stakes; the 5-to-2 favorite,
Quan Tart, was third, and Bravery (5 to 1),
who perhaps needed the race, was close up.
in addition to Triplex, Market Day won the
first division of the Novice Handicap at 25
to 1, Auction the second division at 12 to 1,
and Sir Allan the Nursery Handicap at 14
to 1, so the day was very favorable to the
bookmakers. The “reformed” tote played
fantastic tricks: though Market Day paid
£l7 19s for 10s., the divs. on Auction and
Epergne were merely £2 6s. Od. and 14 ss.
respectively.
Anticipations for the second day on Satur-
day :
Flying Handicap: Bravery, 1; Release, 2.
A.J.C, Steeplechase; Mendit, 1; Porn-
pene, 2.
Winter Stakes: Octember, 1 - Lady Bright-
li ghts, 2.
Exeter Handicap: Reonui, ] ; St. Eaton, 2.
* * * *
Stan Davidson, who had ridden five win-
ners and a third at Newcastle the previous
week, gave Brisbane a taste of his quality
at: Ascot on Saturday, when he got Kitty
Paddington (2 to 1) home in the St. Leger,
ABSOLUTELY.
HORI: “By korry, worst plurry referee I ever play under.”
Craftmaster (7 to 1) in the Welter and
Bernesk (5 to 2) in the Hamilton Handicap.
This brought his total of successes for the
season, in and out of Sydney, to 102 —a
really great achievement. Davidson had a
very comfortable ride in the St. Leger; Royal
Dignity, who was a shade shorter in the
betting than Paddington’s daughter, failed
to stay, and Avas beaten by a dozen lengths.
Third place was filled by LyondoAvn. avlio
won a 10-furlong race at Rosehill before
the autumn meetings. Davidson's mount in
the Stradbroke Handicap was Allmag, but
it Avas not greatly fancied and ran accord-
ingly; the 5-to-2 favorite Running Girl
(Waukenphast—Lady Balfour) Avon easily.
Piastre’s son Coin Nut (4 to 1) surprised
the visitors from N. S. Wales by running
right aAvay from Donald (3 to 1), Valamita
(5 to 2), Rawhetu and Wedding Eve in the
King’s Plate, 10 furlongs w.f.a., and another
easy win Avas that of Iventlo (7 to 1) in
the Novice Handicap. The going was heavy,
and times Avere much beloAV the average in
every case.
Davidson was on Rawhetu in the Bris-
bane Cup. The Maoriland horse was a
clear favorite prior to Saturday, but 8 to 1
Avas available on the course. Coin Nut being
favorite at 3 to 1, Donald and Trainer next
in demand at 7 to 1. In Petto and Canning
Queen at 10 to 1, Valamita, Bright Grain
.and Kentle at 16 to 1. Rawhetu tried to
break up his field, as he has twice succeeded
m doing in good company at Randwick, but
Kentle joined him a couple of furlongs from
home and went past him as soon as his
rider, Foley, wished. Untroubled from that
point, Kentle won by five lengths from Coin
Nut, Avho just got his head in front of
Rawhetu; Trainer, Actinic and Donald Avere
next and the time was 3min. 29fsec. The
winner, a four-year-old chestnut gelding by
Kenilworth—Amicitia, is trained and held on
lease by W. Neale. Though he wasn’t quoted
in the betting before his success in the
Novice Handicap—his second in that variety
of race—and though any amount of 16 to 1
(better in places) was available when the
bags Avere open, some of the pencillers allege
that they “lorst on the race.”
“Reformed Urger”: I see the Brisbane
stewards lined up all the jocks, just before
the Thousand was run at what used to be
called Breakfast Creek. They did this to
have the lads and saddles searched for elec-
tric batteries, but drew a blank. Batteries
are superfluous luxuries Avhen there’s a bit
of priekly-pear about; and Breakfast Creek
used to be thick with pear. I’ve known
places where Bathurst burr was preferred, as
being handier to hide than pear and easier
to find; anyway, a good dry burr or a well-
chosen bit of pear—the spiky sort, of course
—could be planted in the hand or armpit
till the post was reached. Then, if it was
slipped under the back of the saddle, you
got a bonzer finish out of your moke when
you sat dow r n to ride him home. Once past
the judge’s box, you just flicked the thing
out and dropped it. No nark would ever
spot a burr on the ground or sheet it home,
so to speak, if he did. A battery’s not only
hard to drop, but it’s there for all the world
to see.
* * # *
Although Coybeau (Bowman So Shy)
had battled on well at A 100 nee Valley in
running second to Bernbanks, lie was
allowed to go out at 12 to 1 for the York
Hurdle at the V.R.C. Birthday meeting on
Saturday, the popular notion being that the
company was too select. However, T. M.
Burke’s chestnut showed the stamina and
gameness for which the Bowmans are noted
in Sydney, and, jumping cleverly to boot,
he came from a long way back to beat
Telarno (14 to 11 by half a length, with
Jollity (H to 2), who hung on rather better
than usual, a neck away. Stress, an Adel-
aide Grand National winner, and Nobility
were nearest of the others, who included
Fiscus and I’ildin. Coybeau, who is in
Bill Burke’s successful stable, carried 9st.
21b. : he has 9st. in the National. Whereas 14
hurdlers were saddled up. there Avere only
seven starters in the Hopetoun Steeple.
Despite the heavy going the topweight, Agri-
colo, Avas a solid favorite at 2 to 1. He
fenced well, as he ahvays does, but found
the list. 19,1 b. too much for him. Yalaster
(7 to 2), AA’ho had a long lead at one stage,
was passed by Hadrian (4 to 1). who led
him home by six lengths, with old Mailman
(14 to 1) third. Lachlan, Avho carried list.
—lie has 10st. 41b. in the National—is
trained by B. Piper for .T. T. Ryan, and Avas
ridden by Don Wraight, Avho had scored on
Coybeau. He is distinctly a National pos-
sibility : yet his sire. Double Fortune. Avho
was imported by the late Dorham Doolette,
Westralian mining investor and Bulletin
versifier, was only a sprinter.
Elwood Fisher had another win in the
two-year-old race with his smart youngster
Zanibar, who was favorite at 8 to 1. Tullius
(3 to 1), who raced in actor Leon Gordon's
colors for a time, carried Holt’s confidence
in the Royal Handicap, and was always in
the picture, but Nepean (10 to 1) was a
shade too good for him at the weights, Lady
Thrill being third. The winner, who is in
Phil Heywood’s stable, is by Calais —Wari-
anna, and covered the six furlongs in the
exceptionally fast time, considering the con-
ditions, of lmin. 12Jsec. That good horse
Spearer, equal favorite at 4 to 1 with Nawal-
lah, put up a remarkable performance in
the Sandringham Handicap, 10 furlongs, for
he was second last entering the straight.
O’Sullivan took him outside the field, and,
passing 11 horses with all the courage of
the Carbine stock, he reached the judge’s
box half a length ahead of Lady Tattler (8
to 1), with the harshly-treated Smoke Bond)
(6 to 1) half a head away; the time was
2min. Sjsec. Lady Ivingsburgh (12 to 1)
made it a good day for the bagmen by getting
away with the last race, the Buckingham
Welter.
T. M. Burke completed a double when
liis Spearhead gelding Bombard ( 7 to 2),
ridden by George Leonard, easily landed the
Marlborough Hurdle on the second day of
the meeting. Old Rojsel (20 to 1) was
second and Migrant (8 to 1) third; Fiscus
again failed. Bombard, a top-hole jumper
and a successful performer on (lie flat, will
be very hard to beat in the big Flemington
event, wherein Burke holds a strong hand.
Only two of the six starters finished in the
Steeple, Hannan (8 to 1) scoring from
Agricolo (4 to 1). Punters who had seen
Nawallah (8 to 1 ) fail over the last bit of
the Sandringham Handicap received a nasty
jolt, when he. took the Birthday Handicap,
12 furlongs, in clinking fashion from Phocion
(15 to 11 and Royal Simon (20 to 1). By
Magpie.—Booran’s Sister, he has improved
out of all knowledge; he was racing in
Purse company “down the line” a month
ago. Nepean triumphed in another sprint,
at 4 to 1 this time. He is very smart.
Tookarby, who has done a lot of travelling
during his four seasons on the turf (inci-
dentally he did not race till lie was a five-
year-old), crowned a creditable career with
a great win in the Birthday Cup at Adelaide’s
Victoria Park on Saturday. Favorite in
spite of reports that he w r as “sore as a
boil,” he was last for a good part of the 18
furlongs, but responded in a heroic fashion
to Cairns’s urgings—and that jockey rode
the race of his life. Half-way down the
straight it looked as if the issue lay between
the outsiders Eueda, one of the Bowmans,
and Justification, an old gelding by Lord
Alwyne—Hippia, but the Sea Prince horse’s
long run carried him past the pair—a head
in front of Justification, with Eueda another
half-head away. Three Kings (second favor-
ite) was a close fourth, and Samoan, from
Sydney, was fifth; An Fait, for whom there
were barrels of Perth money, lost his chance
at the start. The time was pretty good-—
2min. 47isec. Tookarby’s div. for £1 was
£8 19s.; Justification’s was £13 13s. It was
easily the best div. of the day for a second
horse, but Adhem, winner of the Gang For-
ward Stakes, returned £21 Is.
Killara, the Magpie colt who, his party
insists, was second in the Adelaide Cup but
was overlooked by the judge, ran wide in the
Birthday Cup when going w T ell. Partly on
that account, and partly because he had the
services of Jones, successful in the Adelaide
Cup and the City Handicap, he had plenty
of support for the Alderman Cup on Monday
and justified it by romping home, from J. H.
Flannagan’s English horse Frilford and Leah-
cim in 3min. Of sec.-—the fastest time in which
the Alderman Clip 14 furlongs have been
covered. He is evidently a comer. Jones was
also on Adhem. who won another two-year-
old race for S. Rashecd. and Mentellini, who
divided honors with Miss Audrey in the
Marrayatville Handicap.
* * * *
The Epsom Derby was won all the way
by the 4-to-l favorite Call Boy, a son of
Hurry On —Comedienne. He is owned, not
by Alfred Butt as the cables stated earlier,
but by Frank “Curzon,” also a theatrical
notable, and the first of the profession to
own a Derby winner; Elliott had the mount.
Hot Night, a Gay Crusader colt owned by
one of the Sassoons (Bagdad Jews origin-
ally), was second favorite and finished sec-
ond, two lengths behind “Curzon’s” colt;
Shian Mohr (20 to 1). by Buchan—Or!ass,
was third, eight lengths away; there were
23 starters. The time was 2min. 34 2-5sec.,
beating Captain Cuttle’s record for the race
by one-fifth of a second. Captain Cuttle is
also by Hurry On; Call Boy is that sire’s
third Derby winner. “Curzon” (real name,
Dooley) cleared £54,000 in bets.
“Thormanby”; T don’t know how it is
nowadays, but before the Betting Act made
(Continued on page ) 1 .)
WAL[?]NG HOME.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Time and again he groaned and cursed his
luck.
Prad after prad on which his dough he d
stuck
Finished monotonously in the ruck.
After each fresh reverse he slaked his th.rst
And into moody imprecations burst;
Tipsters and jocks impartially he cursed.
To Hades he consigned fallacious rags,
Damned scheming owners and uncertain nags.
And heartless totes and books with bulging
bags.
“Backed seven losers —very nearly broke?”
'Twas thus a sympathetic neighbor spoke,
“That’s tough, unquestionably, on a bloke.
“Leaving while something’s left? Wait on !
Avast!
No use to whip the cat for losses past.
I’ve got a blanky moral for the ist,
“The dinkum oil it is—straight stable talk —
Ckutnev, by Cheshire Cheese from Colored
Chalk,
Will win the W’elshers’ Welter in a walk.
"Don’t be a quitter, Dig., nor yet a flat.
,lust dredge your pockets to the final sprat
And go for a recovery on that.”
He took the odds to his remaining quid.
The horse walked home, of course? Nay,
brother, rid
Yourself of that idea. The punter did.
N.s.vv.
T. THE R.


mm
m
m
is
I
■ •
■
m
tmm
oAt the Sign of the “ White Horse
White Horse Whisky doesn’t change-wherever
you buy it, wherever you try it, you will find
it’s just the same grand old Whisky, made
according to the original recipe of 1746.
Every drop of water used in White Horse is
Scottish, and it’s just that little “tang ” of the
heather which gives White Horse its individuality
and character. When you hear that old
familiar substitution cry, “ Oh, Sir, this is just
as good/ 5 don’t believe it or listen to it.
Insist on White Horse Whisky. It s the best
in the world and is made by the largest
INDEPENDENT Whisky Firm in Scotland
from the original recipe of 1746*
"scotch Whisky
WHITE HORSE DISTILLERS LTD.,
Glasgow.
DALGETY & COMPANY LTD
Agents.


QN
BANK
THE QUEENSLAND NATIONAL BANK, LIMITED.
Incorporated under the Companies Act 1863. Established 1872.
Directors —A. C. Luya, Esq., Chairman; James Love, Esq.; W. H. Hart, Esq.;
M. J. Ryan, Esq.; D. W. Macdonald, Esq.
General Manager—M. G. HAYMEN.
HEAD OFFICE BRISBANE
With offices at London, Canberra (Federal Territory), Melbourne, Sydney and
95 branches in Queensland and Northern Rivers, N. S. Wales, also representatio
through the leading Banking Institutions covering Australasia and the World, tnu
Bank' offers the fullest facilities for the transaction of all general banking busines.-.
Ericsson Telephone Mfg. Co.
(Formerly James Paton & Co.)
Sole Importers of the Famous Ericsson Telephone and Switchboard
Apparatus, for Magneto, Common Battery and Automatic Working
WIRELESS APPARATUS,
19 YORK STREET, SYDNEY; 509 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE.
Nation- Wide Popularity through
Fair Dealing.
The phenomenally rapid growth and nation-wide popularity of the
Producers and Citizens' may be said to rest on the fact that it lives up
to the spirit as well as the letter of the ideal of Co-operation. For
example, its Policy-holders are protected against forfeiture of their
policies during seasonal emergencies; each year definite sums are
earmarked for loan purposes; while the Company’s intimate know-
ledge of the peculiar needs of the men on the land takes form in
sympathetic, understanding treatment.
The PRODUCERS & CITIZENS’
Co-operative Assurance Co. of Australia, Ltd.,
Gov. Dir.:
A. K. Trethowan.
114-120 Castlereagh Street, Sydney.
Gen. Man.:
H. Fell
Under the V^hip
(Continued from page 39.)
the licensing of odds-layers compulsory, any-
one who backed the favorite on Epsom’s
equivalent of our Randwick and Flemington
flats was faced with several alternatives
if his fancy won. He might get liis money
with no worse experience than a blistering
comment on his personal appearance—that is,
if his brief wasn’t snatched. He might be
paid and, forthwith, manhandled and robbed
by the bookmaker’s “minders.” He might be
manhandled without the preliminary form-
ality of paying. Or he might join in a
gallop in pursuit of a ringman who reckoned
speed a better refuge than brute force—an
English June can be warm, too, on occasion.
But perhaps all that has vanished, thanks to
paternal legislation. If so, a lot of fun has
vanished with it.
Footbrawl
Fresh from its victory in the third and
deciding game of the rubber with the Com-
bined Maoriland Universities, the Sydney
Uni. Rugby Union team fell upon Glebe-
Balmain, its rival for the Sydney premier-
ship, on Saturday and won a splendid match
by 19 to 10. Both sides boast great packs,
while it would be hard to say which back
division is the finer. The duel between Shee-
han, the elusive Uni. five-eighth, and Wal-
lace, the Oxford-Scotland centre, was alone
worth seeing. Wallace was in magnificent
form, and it was no fault, of his that Glebe-
Balmain failed ; Sheehan, for his part, con-
tributed 8 points to ’Varsity’s score with
two dropped goals from the field. A penalty-
goal from Ross also helped the side to
establish a useful lead, which Glebe-Bal-
main’s superiority in try-getting could not
cut down. Manly scored an unexpected win,
16—3, v. Randwick; Eastern Suburbs was
lucky to head North Sydney, 11 —8 ; and the
Y.M.C.A. forwards were not equal to the
heavy Western Suburbs forwards, the Young
Men going under by 20 to 9.
$ * * *
After a week of matches against each
other, the eight country teams in Sydney for
the Rugby League “carnival” each tackled a
metropolitan first-grade club on Saturday.
Only one emerged successful, Far Western
districts beating North Sydney by 23 points
to 19; nevertheless many of the visitors
showed capital form, and there is no doubt
the work of metropolitan coaches in the
country is having good results. Chief interest
centred in the games between the two un-
beaten metropolitan clubs, South Sydney and
St. George, and the Far North and New-
castle teams respectively. South w r on by 41
to 20 and St. George by 25 to 6. The meet-
ing of the pair in the last match of this
round should see some fur flying.
* * * *
“Gate”: The decision of the N.S.W. Rugby
League to make the district residential quali-
fication for players 12 months, instead of
six, will be welcomed by the less affluent
clubs. Hitherto these have had the pleasure
of seeing many of their best men lured to
other districts as fast as they were developed.
Now, if a young player makes a good show-
ing, any district importing him will have to
keep him idle for the whole or greater part
of the following season,_ which would be
expensive, apart from his possible loss of
form through missing a season’s play.
*
The Czecho-Slav Soccer players, after a
success against Illawarra, had to go all out
to beat a Northern District side at New-
castle. The Czechs had a goal to nil at
half-time, but the scores were 3 to 1 in the
local men’s favor 20 minutes before the
whistle was due. Desperately rallying, the
tourists cracked on three more goals, win-
ning a hard and lively game right on time.
The Sydney Soccer competition games were
ehiefly notable for Gladesville-Ryde’s defeat
of Woonoona, the South Coast champions,
by 2 goals to 1, and for the severe licking
administered to Granville, premiers last year,
by South Sydney-Pyrmont —4 to 1.
The Czechs crowned a strenuous week by
beating Australia, 6 goals to. 4, at Sydney
Skowgroimd in the first Test match of the
tour. The game was hard fought from start
to finish ; superior teamwork was the decid-
ing factor.
* * * *■
Melbourne met Hawthorn on the latter’s
ground last Saturday and had no difficulty
in gaining the day, though the Mayblooms
put up a good fight till half-time. Their
chief need is a hard-hearted trainer who will
make them kick straight and play together.
Scores: Melbourne, 112 points; Hawthorn,
80. At Essendon the Collingwood Magpies
met the locals and delighted some 26,000
watchers with a hard, unsparing game, of
which the chief feature was the determined
play of the backs on both sides. The last
two quarters saw a stiff, continuous struggle
for a lead. At the end, ’Wood had staved
off the ’Dons’ repeated attacks and won by
seven points—56 to 49. At Geelong St.
Ivilda staged some unusually accurate goal-
shooting ; unfortunately there wasn’t enough
of it: Geelong, 12 goals 17 behinds; Saints,
10 goals 4 behinds.
M.Q. (and Rafferty) Rules
Perhaps because an Australian was boxing,
most of the regulars were absent from the
Sydney Stadium on Saturday night when
Fred Brock (lOst. 121 b.) met Charlie Long
(list. They have paid big money to
see many worse fights, though it did not last
long. The negro, rushing across at the first
tinkle of the electric bell, caught Brock
fiddling with the belt of his green shorts, and
had got home heavy rights to head and body
before the white defensive system was in
working order. This attack took a good deal
out of Brock, though his actions when he did
realise things did not suggest it; lie swung
and hooked solid lefts to the jaw, sunk
splendid rights to the body, and generally
showed how easy it is to hit the sturdy nig-
ger. Also, his headwork was so clever that
many times he made the black miss by inches
and countered forcibly. Fred won each of
the first four rounds, the third by a wide
margin. But Brock is old for a ringster,
and in the fourth round it became evident
that his wonderful head- and foot-work on
the ropes was slowing. In the next round
Long, anticipating the lighter man’s head
sway, caught him a full-force right smash
under the ear. The dazed Brock managed to
slip across to the north ropes. There Long
overtook him ,and, with a volley of snappy
punches, laid him out for the count.
“8.M.” : In one of the Stadium prelimin-
aries on Saturday night a Sydney feather-
weight named Jack Cole put a Newcastle
boy out for five minutes with a perfect right
cross, which reached the point 20sec. after
the "box on.” The punch set me thinking
of the first' time I saw the skinny little
Auckland tailor Billy Mujrphy in action.
It was at. Shortland, during the merry days
of the Thames goldfield. The miners were
GIVING MONISH AWAY.
IZZY: “Vot, gif you a hundred und fifty for dat old rattletrap? You must Sink I'm
mad!”
BARNEY: “It’s a bargain, Izzy , a bargain! V’y der car’s insured for a hundred and
sixty.”
immensely proud of a IBst. half-caste who
had beaten all opponents, including some
tough lads from the West Coast diggings.
Billy Murphy, w T ho never scaled more than
Sst. 61b. and was Sst. 41b. at this time, heard
of the Thames champion and issued a chal-
lenge. You could have got 20 to 1 against
him when they shaped up on the stage of the
old Victoria Theatre, Shorthand —he looked
like a rat bobbing about in front of a lion.
But he circled, feinted and let fly a right
with all his force. It landed fair on the
mark, and that half-caste squirmed on the
floor for many seconds after the referee had
said “out.” ‘ Murphy, afterwards feather-
weight champion of the. world, w r as the
hardest hitter of his weight ever seen in
a ring.
* * * *
“Brom”: When 1 was a small boy at the
Melbourne Grammar School we were not
permitted to strike one another in the heat
of temper anywhere within the school boun-
daries. Boxing was regarded as one of the
coarser vices. Apparently the lads have
since put away tlieir mittens and their
tiddly-winks, and under the encouragement of
their headmaster, “Lofty” Franklin, are
steadfastly learning the noble art. Passers-
by in the trams on present afternoons will
observe infants in the preparatory school
pasting away 'at a burly young instructor,
and the good work is continued right up
to the big school, where there is now a
tournament every year with prizes for the
most combative and skilful at the various
midget weights. I don’t know what hap-
pened when Franklin, a keen follower of
English public-school practices, introduced
the gloves. If the somewhat elderly and
old-fashioned council that runs the school
swooned then and there, the episode was
carefully kept from the public.
* * * *
Mike Yokel, fat but by no means scant
of breath, secured the only fall in his match
with Sam Clapham at Melbourne Stadium.
It was the American’s second defeat of
Clapham. but as both were over the light-
heavyweight limit Samuel’s title was not
involved, and that’s a comfort. From the
outset the pace was warm, and the man
from Wyoming exhibited ingenious methods
of evasion when it got too warm, lie thought
nothing of skipping blithely through the
ropes and taking up a position on the re-
porters’ benches. From this vautagO-poifit
he would express his opinion on different
points of the contest to the referee, the
while gaining the respite he required. In
the fourth round lie applied a merciless
sliort-bar leg scissors, which the Briton
endured for four whole minutes; thereupon
Sam gracefully yielded to the pleadings of
liis followers and said it; was a fall. In
the remaining four rounds the American’s
unfailing craftiness stood him in good stead,
and Sammy left the ring a beaten but a
richer man, for it was an excellent “gate.”
The Watermen
Though something of a dark horse, West-
ralia was strongly fancied for the inter-
University eight-oar race on the Nepean
liiver (N.S.W.) on Saturday. The youths
from the Swan River won a fine race by a
length and a quarter from the Melbourne
lads, who were about four lengths ahead of
Tasmania. Rowing a short, fast stroke, like
their confreres of the inter-State eight, whose
boat they were using, the Jarrahlanders
stayed the three-mile course well, and came
right away from their rivals when stroke
Williams called for a final kick; the time
w r as 17min. 30sec. Adelaide, Sydney and
Queensland followed the place-getters in that
order. It was Westralia’s first appearance
in the race, which v r as instituted in 1870,
when fours competed, Melbourne triumphing
on the Yarra. The eight-oar crews first met
in 1888, and the race has been a regular fix-
ture since that year (when Adelaide first
entered), save in the war period. West-
raiia’s success strengthens the impression
that Swan River oarsmen are in a class of
their own these days, and it is to be hoped
that every effort will be made to send a re-
presentative crew 7 to Amsterdam and see that
it is thoroughly coached and trained before
the Olympic race comes on.
The other event on the programme, and
the first of its kind, was the inter-University
sculling race over two miles. Only Sydney
and Melbourne were represented ; the Sydney-
ite, K. A. Flavelle, beat S. Bell by a length
and a half, no time being taken. Threaten-
ing weather kept many people away, but the
crowd was above the average nevertheless.
* * * *
‘'Slide”: The Henley-on-Yarra committee
has invited the Maoriland people to send
W. A. Stevenson, their best sculler, to Mel-
bourne for the big regatta next October, and
also a four-oar crew. It is expected that the
Waitemata crew will make the trip. The
crowd would like to see a Westralian crew
try conclusions with the Maorilanders. The
latter are confirmed exponents of the ortho-
dox style of rowing, and a battle between
them and the fast-rate, short-pulling cham-
pions of Australia would be full of interest.
The Nineteenth Hole
Golfers held high holiday on Saturday at
Rose Bay links, when the foursomes cham-
pionship of N.S.W. was won by a Sydney
pair, P. Sydney Jones and H. W. McLelland.
Their chances did not look rosy after a morn-
ing round of 79, but a 74 in the afternoon
landed them home by two strokes from the
runners up, H. W. Ilattersly and L. W.
llore, also of Sydney (155). The formidable
Maoriland and Victorian contingents had
been expected to give the local men a lot of
trouble, but none of them quite found their
game on the day. A gratifying feature of
the play was the number of young players
who finished well up on the list. Last
year's .State champions, G. It. Davidson and
K. Harrison, were third, with 15(5. and
would have won but for shaky putting on
the last two greens.
Tl ie Rose Bay cup, practically an open
Australian handicap for pros, and ama-
teurs, was the big event on Monday’s
programme. Tommy Howard, professional
champion of Australia in 1925, tied with
W. J. Clark for first place; Howard’s
rounds were each 73, while his brother-
professional went round in 75 and 71. How-
ard tied with W. Colry for the same event
last year. None of the competitors from
other States threatened the winning N. S.
Welshmen on this occasion.
* * # *
“Mid Iron": R. Kirk, one of the donors
of the Kirk-Windeyer cup, spread himself
on the subject of his adored game when
speaking at a civic reception to the Maori-
land golfers now in Sydney. Not everyone
is in accord with him, however. The poiut
of view of some of the other side is summed
up in the conversation of two faded ladies
hovering outside a Moore Park pub as a
couple of bag-carrying golfers went by.
“ ’Ockey, I s’pose,” said one, wearily, “or
poler, p’r’aps.” “Not on yer life,” said the
other; “they just pushes marbles round with
a stick.”
* * *
“Ploughman”: A recent forecast that
Bogey at the new Hamilton golf course, near
Brisbane (B. 12/5/’27), would soon be badly
towelled up was not long in being verified.
Bogey was fixed at the liberal figures of 38
out and in—76 in all. Last week Arthur
Spence, professional to the Royal Queens-
land club, did the full round in 33 out and
32 home: an extraordinary score for an 18-
hole course, even under the most favorable
conditions. Spence has a weakness for this
sort of thing. Last year, playing in the Sun-
IIerald Cm competition in Sydney, he broke
the record for Kensington course with a 70.
For 20 years 71 had stood as the absolute
best.
* * * *
“The Lie”: The man who performs the
now-ordinary feat of holing out in one is
compelled by tradition to set 'em up for all
witnesses of the occurrence. Experts in
golfing etiquette are looking up precedents
to decide procedure in a knotty English ease.
Playing at Eastbourne (Eng.) with the
club professional, E. Macey, Colonel Cromp-
ton holed out from his tee drive. His oppo-
nent did the same, the hole being thus halved
in one. The amazing happening has been
recorded on three other occasions: once in
America and twice in England. But the
question naturally arises as to which player
has to bear the burden of the drinks: the
first man down or the second, or both? The
writer gives a verdict for a Kentucky shout.
* * ■ * ‘ *
“Boche”: England exports steel-shafted
golf clubs to America (B. 19/5/’27) not
only for profit, but because British rules
bar them. Why, only St. Andrews knows,
the steel shaft giving no advantage over the
hickory gadget, unless that it is more trust-
worthy. Steel shafts don’t vary, save in
the slightest degree. Wooden ones do, and
that so considerably that anyone who has
happened on a really good one has a distinct
pull over the individual with a fair-to-
ordinary stick.
(Continued on page )2.)


NEW IMPROVED TORCH,
•200-YARD BEAM.
Winchester Focussing Torch.
Everyone who has a Winchester Torch recog-
nises a Winchester Torch is a necessity, not a
luxury. This new model is a wonderful torch.
Easily focussed to throw a narrow beam of light
a distance of 000 ft. or, if required, to show a
broad light at u distance of a few feet only.
Nickel case, 3Jin. lens. 9in. in length. Complete
witli 3-cell Winchester patent drawn seamless
cell Battery, 21/-
SPARE BATTERIES, 2/6 each. SPARE
GLOBES, 1/3 each. Postage Torches complete
Batteries. Other models of Focussing Torches
from 15/- to 18/6. Standard non-focussing-
tvpes, 7/6 to 17/6. Direct Factory Distributors:
Gun and Cartridge Makers,
318 LITTLE COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE
Visitors to Brisbane! Book up at the
HOTEL CECIL
(FIRST CLASS)
Reasonable Tariff—Good Position.
é
ê
ë
ē
Write
to
Desk B.
Challis House, Martin Place, Sydney.
Martin Ditcher
Cuts One Mile
Of 3-foot Ditch
In Single Day
Cleans out old ditches, ruts fire-
breaks, grades roads , etc.
499 Little Collins Street, Melbourne.
Exton House, Queen St reet, Brisbane,
T.T. B’l’gs, Light Square, Adelaide.
Queen Street, Perth.
Cbc Equitable Cife
flssce.
<*o
6 0
iFjpjP^fcsfjTi)
Coy.
Australasia 01
Head Office:
Parbury House, Eagle Street, Brisbane.
Branches:
NSW.: VICTORIA:
81 Pitt St., Sydney. 360 Collins St., Melb.
Transacts Probate, Life Endowment, Com-
bined Benefits (All Sickness) Assurance.
(Vacancies for Producers with good records.)
FItl’.DK. LEVY, Mg. Director,
Car and Cycle
(Continued from page Jfl.)
“Jonno”: What the popular light car re-
quires most, in my judgmeut, is some device
for quickly inflating tyres by mechanical
means. If we had such we should be spared
the now-familiar sight of Dad, Mum and the
kids taking turns at the hand-pump while a
10-20-h.p. engine stands idle at the roadside.
* He He He
"Lizzieville”: Detroit, an American city
familiar by name to most motorists, has
made a new and valiant departure in dealing
with the parking nuisance. This consists in
applying the ordinary law of “pounding” to
cars parked in violation of the regulations.
The offending car is taken in tow by a.
special lorry and hauled off to a “ear pound,”
where it stays, like a strayed horse or cow,
till its owner comes along and pays the
pound fees. The best haul in one day was
160 cars, soon after the new system began,
but the daily bag has now shrunk to a frac-
tion of that.
H= * H= *
“Strict Veg.”: The Yic. Civil Ambulance
service broke its own record, and probably
made one for Australia, in transferring a
woman suffering from rheumatoid-arthritis
from Orbost to Melbourne, 488 miles. The
complaint is as painful as any can be, yet
so beautifully sprung was the waggon that
a speed of 40 m.p.h. was maintained for
most of the journey.
H= H= H= H=
England has recently completed an annual
motor contest which is unique of its kind.
Promoted by the Motor Cycle Club, it is
open to anything driven by steam or petrol.
The run is from London to Land’s End.
where the toe of Cornwall thrusts out into
the Atlantic; the distance is just under 320
miles. Motor-cars, motor-cycles, side-cars
and tliree-wlieeled cycle-cars competed; 131
cars and 305 other sorts finished. The only
prizes are medals, which are awarded for
points gained in the usual motoring tests.
In spite of the long and weary "plug” many
womenfolk accompanied the male competi-
tors, not only in the cars but riding pillion
with the motor-cyclists.
$ »!• v '!•
“Nikko”: In recording Mrs, Sandford’s
trij) from Adelaide to Darwin “E.P.” (B.
19/5/’27) writes as if the lady’s experience
was limited to Maoriland, but she has driven
cars in Egypt, England and France. After
her marriage to airman Sandford she learned
to fly, and was the first M.L. woman to hold
a pilot’s certificate. She’s a good motor-
mechanic too. There’s no road repair she
can’t undertake.
“Garry”: One direction in which the
Americans smother the British manufacturer
of cars is in advertising. I never realised
all the virtues of the small climbing car —
the sort of thing the Britishers specialise in
—till I read the publicity stuff turned out
by American imitators of the specialty. The
joke of it is that the Yankees would never
have worried about a little car —even Lizzie
is a big. healthy heifer according to English
standards —if their cities hadn’t grown sky-
wards to such an extent that parking-space
was crowded. But now that they have found
a domestic market for runts they gush about
them so beautifully that the big-car market
in N. York is getting quite slack. The British-
ers have conservative ideas about advertising.
Both Daimler and Rolls-Royce, when they
buy a full page, just put the name in the
middle of a lot of scrolls and let it go at
that.
H: H= Hi H:
“Chevroford”: Melbourne at the moment
is in tb(> throes of a Safety First campaign,
induced by the revelation that motor casual-
ties have gone up 100 p.c. in a year, and
some of the remedies suggested are fan-
tastic. One proposal is that a trench 6m.
deep by a foot wide should be laid in cement
across all intersections, so that the speed
hog would break his springs or his neck if
lie attempted to. cross at more than 20 m.p.h.
Another notion as good might be a trap open-
ing in the middle of the street so that the
rusher might proceed at his 50 miles down a
graded chute straight into a subterranean
police-station. .Actually the traffic rules in
Melbourne are chaotic. Four municipalities
prosecute the driver who passes a stationary
tram, while the others have no objection. The
result is that neither motorist nor pedestrian
knows where lie is. Then there is an unwrit-
ten law that traffic on main roads should
have precedence over that emerging from
side streets. Unfortunately nobody knows
which is a main road and which a side
street. There is a regulation, also unwritten,
that vehicles should give way to all others
on the right. ' The small minority which
hasn’t heard of it causes lots of smashes.
Then the naming of streets is so obscure
that a motorist in a strange district is like
a lost explorer stumbling through a jungle.
These are some of the things to which the
National Safety Council, which has just been
rushed together, might give its first consi-
deration.
Miscellaneous
“C. Bumpkin”: It is curious how the eyes
of the sporting world are directed skywards
these days. When Capt. Voss went round
the world in his cockleshell in pre-’plane
days he created a sensation. Nowadays
nobody gets enthusiastic about anything that
goes slower than 100 m.p.h. A Frenchman
on a world-cruise reached New Guinea in
a 7-ton chip the other day, but the papers
took little note of him. The ten-months’
cruise on which Utiekah 111. has started
from Port Phillip also hasn’t excited much
interest. Yet it is a real adventure, and
the lovely little craft in its way is as efficient
a machine as an aeroplane. Inside her 15ft.
beam and 36ft. overall she stows seven of
a crew, a bathroom with half a bath, a
transmitting and receiving wireless set and
an electric-light plant. She is built on the
lines of a Norwegian surf-boat. If her tiny
wheel goes under water in a seaway it won’t
be for the first time. It once served on an
Australian submarine in the North Sea.
"Birkdale" : A cable told the other day
of. the introduction of a "new and thrilling
sport” at Bognor, a British watering-place.
This consisted in “sailing” races across the
wide, wet sands at low tide in wheeled craft
equipped w-itli mast and sails. Forty years
ago the “new” sport flourished at Southport,
St. Annes and Lytham, Lancashire watering-
places, where the flat sands stretch for miles
when the water has all retired to sea. It
was to be seen at its best on Easter or Whit
Monday, when the “operatives,” male and
female, from the inland cotton towns _ in-
dulged in it from morn till beery eve, tides
permitting. It was de rigger on these occa-
sions to drink bottled beer and devour
pickled cockles, the preparation of the latter
being a great local industry. As the land-
craft were remarkably like their sea-going
sisters in their rise and fall over the ridgy
sands, their passengers often had an oppor-
tunity to incur the alleged benefits of mal
de mer, without running any risk of drown-
ing.
“Duckwing” : English sporting writers re-
cord a revival of cockfighting. At Easter
there was so general a recrudescence of the
game in Lancashire that the police were
“practically powerless.” Eighty years ago
cockfighting was the invariable morning pre-
ZANE GREY, the U.S. novelist. He has
left Maoriland for South America, but
says he will return next .March to
catch some more big fish
liminary to the big North of England race
meetings, and Doncaster and Chester were
famous for their “cocking,” a five-days’ main
being no unusual thing. Two-year-old birds
with a standard weight of under 41b. lOoz.
were de rigneur, and the “feeder” was as
important a functionary as the horse-trainer.
Eggs, sugar-candy, hot bread, milk, barley,
rice, butter and rhubarb formed a typical
diet for the cocks, plus trreen sods and fresh
gravel. Ten guineas a battle and 200 the
main were the customary stakes, apart from
the betting. The ‘‘settlers,” too, were
highly-paid experts, drawing up to 30
guineas a main, and the spurs worn by the
cocks were of silvered steel; the fastening of
these alone was a specialist’s job. It is said
that a little “cocking” still goes on about
Sydney. The turn of the wheel may bring
it back into favor, as in Lancashire.
* # * e
“Adamascus”: Frank Schultz (B.
26/5/’27) is assuredly no Donaldson, but
he has- some very fine performances to his
credit. Among his recorded times are:
75yds., 7 1-lOsec.; 100yds., 9 4-ssec. ; 130
yds., 12 2-ssec.; 220yds., 21 1-osec.; 300yds.,
30 l-ssec.; 440yds., 47 4-ssec. He has run
with success over all distances up to a mile.
At Rockhampton a couple of years ago,
Schultz raced a cyclist over 75yds., winning
on the tape in 7 l-ssec. Now 7 26 years old,
lie has been a ped. since he was 16. His
first coach was old-timer Jim McGarrigal.
“Sliin-barker": This country is about to
rejoice in an extra-special issue of hockey.
Inter-State matches have been arranged, and
Maoriland is sending over a team which
will start operations in Melbourne, journey-
ing thence to South Aus. and meandering as
far north as Brisbane, where a 'Test-match
will be played. The English skipper of the
Indian hockey team ranked M.L. form far
ahead of Australian, and certainly what the
Maorilanders did to the last team from this
side to cross the Tasman was a shame. In
addition, an English women’s team will cut
it way across the continent. It has been
winning by billiard breaks in Perth and
Adelaide.
* * * ' *
Jack Ryrie, of Penally station, near Gular-
gambone (N.S.W.), who was killed while
playing polo last week, was a fine all-round
athlete, A good cricketer and Rugby player
at King’s School, Parramatta, he later took
up rowing with the Sydney club, becoming
one of the best oars of his day. He first
rowed for N.S.YY. in 1908, when it won
the inter-State boatrace, and was also in
the winning eight of 1911. Jack reached
his zenith as bow of the Australian Olympic
eight of 1912, when Roger Fitzhardinge’s
famous crew won the Grand Challenge Cup
at Henley.
"Foul Fly” : Australia’s hope of seeing a
team of American baseballers before long has
been dashed. The Yanks have decided that a
tour by a first-class team is impossible, and
no other is wanted. The stumbling-block is the
same as that which debars the cream of
English Soccer visiting Australia —the costly,
top-notch professional player. American
baseball stars draw up to £lO,OOO a year,
and birds like that are far too valuable to
be let out of their cages for a fly to foreign
parts. The only amateur teams in America
are those at the universities, and these could
hardly spare the time necessary for the long
four. Japan, which has adopted baseball as
its national game, will probably come to the
rescue. Arrangements for a visit from a
Nipponese team are now in hand.
* * * *
“Morice”: Darwin’s most enthusiastic
athlete is a one-handed man —the other hand
is off at the wrist. Football, lawn-tennis,
cricket and motoring are among his pastimes,
and he is above the average at all. To watch
him serving at tennis in tropical heat would
put many languid southern servers to shame.
“Blade Sight”: One item of Australian
prowess which has not received the publicity
it deserves is the achievement of the R.A.
Naval Reserve in the Empire rifle-shooting
competitions. Trophies captured by these
Australian lads include the Senior Imperial
challenge shield (Edgecliff, N.S.W.), the
.Tellicoe sword (Fremantle), the Governor-
General’s prize (Edgecliff) and over 80 per-
cent. of the silver and bronze medals awarded
for the Empire. The R.A.N.R. also had 10
placings among “the best 60 organisations
in the Empire,” and bore away two of the
four silver medals distributed among in-
structors.
“Pumpkin Urger” : The very latest in the
sporting world is a Plant Derby, which is
to be run off at Ivew Botanical Gardens
this summer. A greenhouse, fitted half with
ordinary glass and half with that variety
which admits the violet rays of sunlight, Avill
be the course. A set of similar plants is
to be placed in each section; these will be
pitted against each other for increased
growth and so forth. It is to be hoped the
game won’t spread. Amateur gardeners are
bad enough now, with their eternal talk of
bulbs, seeds, slips, cuttings and manures;
should plant-racing form be added to all
that, life for the non-gardener will take on a
wearier aspect than ever. And look at the
opportunity for crook work! One can visual-
ise the envious Smith trying to stiffen the
favorites by heaving a brick through the
particular section of Jones’s glass which
houses the fancied candidates. And the bet-
ting on the running, too. Imagine the long-
drawn-out excitement of backing or laying the
flowering of an aloe —an event that takes
place once in a generation or so. The Aus-
tralian Cup would be a flying flutter beside
it.
Business, Robbery, etc.
“Ring Bolt”: Two Hobart men, Lewis
Undy and Charles Jager, have discovered a
method of welding copper, a difficult feat
because of the low melting point of the metal,
which stands next above lead in the scale
of crucible fluidity. The artificers of the
Bronze Age knew how to do it, but the art,
apparently, has been lost. The inventors
waited six years before it dawned on them
that their process had a commercial value.
Lately they sent a sample to a New York
manufacturer of copper articles, and elicited
at once a bid of 25;000 dollars for the patent
rights. But they would prefer to sell to the
British Admiralty, and have sent samples to
that quarter.
* * * *
"Mark Patch”: Re John Hunter Watts's
article on * the Australian leather industry
(B. 19/5/’27). The snake, crocodile and
lizard have not been relegated to the past
for ladies' shoe manufacture. On the con-
trary, leading Melbourne and Sydney manu-
facturers are starving for these reptile
leathers, particularly Java cabragoya
(lizard). The world-wide demand for rep-
tile skins is emphasised by the fact that a
Brisbane dealer is now seeking 2000 Queens-
land carpetsnake-skins for export to India;
evidently the Indian buyer requires our
snakeskins to help fulfil the big demand he
is getting from Continental countries and
America for reptile overcoats.
* * * *
"<!. I). Mac.": Snakeskin curing is a new
industry that promises well, _ since there’s a
good market abroad. Here's the recipe:
Remove the head, turn back the skin until
sufficient is available for gripping, when the
whole sheath can be stripped off. Scrape off
any flesh or fat adhering to the skin with a
blunt knife. Steep the skin in a solution of
lib. lime and 4gal. water, the mixture being
allowed to stand two hours before using;
steep for 48 hours, removing it three times a
day while the mixture is stirred. On taking the
skin from the bath, the scales and outer
skin can be removed with a blunt knife. Then
treat the fleshy side of the skin with a solu-
tion of equal parts glycerine, methylated
spirts and water, which curing process must
be repeated after the skin has been rolled and
allowed to dry over night. Then rub the
inner side of skin fro - t neck to tail with
pumice-stone or fine sandpaper.
* * * *
“Two Seas” : A relative in the woolgrow-
ing business was sitting on his verandah—
the homestead is near the main road —when
a handsome car stopped at his front gate, and
a lady in a fur coat beckoned to him. Think-
ing they were pilgrims from Sydney, who
wanted water for the radiator or something,
the sheepman strolled down to the car. “Your
property?” asked the gent, seated by the
lady. “Yes,” replied the wooljammer. “Then
do you mind giving me and the missus per-
mission to poison and trap in your pad-
docks?” My woolly relative is now meditat-
ing a change of occupation.
* 0: * *
“Murkah”: Twenty-eight years ago the
world gasped when the English Channel was
bridged by wireless. Now English-Australian
radio business is being ferried across the
world, via the beam. Over this phantom
circuit, which must always be the world's
longest ether-line, an automatic speed of
100 words per min. each way is being main-
tained for 12 to 14 hours daily. For roughly
two hours—about our midnight, when the
earth appears to turn uneasily in its sleep
—communication is difficult, though not im-
possible. Over the balance of the 24 business
can be punched through at a 30-word rate.
This particular beam service is not the first,
however. For over two years a directional
service between Nauen (Germany) and
Buenos Ayres, 6000 miles apart, has been
operating both ways at a 100-word clip.
* * *
“W.1.U.”: Broken Hill is watching with
interest the fight between the Country
Traders’ Association and the so-called “Mines
Welfare Stores,” First the traders had a
conference with the Mining Managers’ Asso-
ciation, and were informed that the cos. were
not concerned with the stores, which were co-
operative staff affairs. Then the traders
refused to place orders with warehouses
which supplied the staff stores, but sufficient
capital was obtained by the co-operatives to
buy direct from the manufacturers for cash
with order. Then the law was invoked to
drive the staff stores off mining leases, but
that only shifted the hated enterprises to
locations' eheek-by-jowl with privately-owned
shops. Then the Red element took a hand,
and Scott Bennett was engaged to give a
lecture on “Welfare Stores: A Menace to
Workers.” Four nights later the Barrier
Industrial Council appointed a committee
to report on the advisability of establishing
union co-operative stores. Broken Hill had
them once —they lived on after an early
strike —but bad management eventually slew
them.


/ l *L/
K
o
<£?
*ii.jiniiflnanwaw» u M
(k»
m
si.. X
s
&
- P:
i
=3
m
r.
j,
r
S&JiJL
Sk.
WfcN
'S
We
X
5?
ll«IUUIW|l\lll!l|»llillll|!Hmilll»liOHinWfl
\ I
•11 ft
JC-H 115
5?
XJr
sIS iSr
r
K iS
f _
\
%
ISAS
-
G- fe. P)T- 'r-
i_nrcHFip:uo
The wise man
heeds the writing
on the wall, then
and there suiting
the action to the
words
"qA blessing to Humanity ”


Under
Royal
Warrant
Vintage 1917.
To H.M.
Kin^
GeorgeV
1
CHAMPAGNE
Australasian Agents—
Swift & Company Limited
SYDNEY.
Champagne
Giarkslleidsieat
REIMS
-gZ?
PELLISSON
Cognac Brandy.
10 YEARS OLD.
Australasian Asrerta—
SWIFT & COMPANY LIMITED, Sydney.
\
*z\
Vf
•WC
1
/A*>
THE WENTWORTH
CHURCH HILL.
Sydney’s Most Noteworthy Hotel.
JN the midst of the city, but sufficiently removed
from the racket to provide ideal accommoda-
tion for the traveller in search of the perfect
hospitality.
Steam-heated in Winter. Air-cooled in Summer.
Rooms with or without Baths, or with Sitting-
rooms en suits.
THE DELIGHTFUL WENTWORTH CAFE
is Sydney’s most magnificent Ballroom, and the
Social Rendezvous of Smart People.
All Reservations may be made by Ringing 8W1361.
SYDNEY.
The Finest Restaurant and Dance
Rendezvous in Australasia.
PATRONAGE CONTINUALLY INCREASING.
Capacity: Dining and Supper Dances up to 1000.
For Wedding Receptions, Banquets, Dining and
Supper Dances, inquiries to Manager.
Mon., Tues., Wed., Fri., Special Dining, 7.30.
12/6. Suppers 10 p.m., 7/6. Value and satis-
faction without equal, So charge for tiirtv
hours* dancing on satin-smooth spring floors
a new thrill of real delight.
Thurs. and Sat. T.ate Gala Nights. Continental
Dinner from 7.30, 21/-. Suppers, 10 p.m., 1-/0.
This evening in London costs £2/2/- upnnicK
PEERLESS ORCHESTRA OF TEN
Bewitching Cabaret, afternoons and evenings.
Delightful Afternoon Teas. 3.30 to 5.30, 5'
Parties of 6 upwards, 4/6; 12 upwards, 4/-
Two hours’ entertainment of sheer dengnt.
Order Wines before 6 p.m. Ring M.c666.
A WOMAN'S
LETTER
SAY
Kayser
SLIPPER HEEL
[?]
STOCKINGS
Surely every business girl in the city
found her way to Martin-place on Tuesday.
By half-past one the Place might have been
taken for some Oriental market of female
charms. And when Elaine de Chair unlocked
a great safe, and out stepped 2000
alert and smiling girls—to demonstrate the
week’s slogan: “Woman’s Health is the
Nation’s Wealth’’—-Bill Sikes, looking on,
wondered whether the thrill of a discovery
like that would ever oome his professional
way.
The sun came out of the mist at the
King’s Birthday meeting at Randwiek in
time to shed a ray or two on the G.-G. as
he grasped hands with Colin Stephen, while
the band struck up the National Anthem.
Everything in and out was in shining order,
and the lawns glittered like emeralds in
the winter sunshine. Even the bookies’
voices sounded clear as an angel choir while
they urged backers to win fortune and dis-
pense with beastly toil. The westerly being
just around the corner, the general wear
was fur or furred coats.
And what an advantage travel is! Con-
sider our home-grown bunny. Despised and
rejected of men in its own country, it comes
back from Europe to parade at our best-
dressed functions as chinchilla, skunk and
stone-marten —everything, indeed, but the
aristocrat sable. This in deep borders en-
riched the sumptuous velvet coat in which
Mrs. Tony Hordern wrapped her gradually-
increasing outline. Mark Sheldon’s lady had
a light Canadian fox collar on her blue
maroeain ensemble suit. A great shoulder
bouquet of white violets dropped against
Mrs. Dan Kelly’s black tailored coat, worn
with a smart black Minerva hat which fitted
her head so tightly that no westerly from
Kensington could budge it. Little Mrs.
George Hudson wrapped herself in Russian
sable. Various Osbornes, the Spencer Brun-
tons and those veteran racegoers, the Harry
Levi on s. were among the thousands who
cried “God save,” but felt certain that the
bookies would !
That upstanding gentleman, the Dewan
Bahadur Rangachariar, who represented the
Indian Government at the Canberra cere-
monies, paid the Press people of Sydney a
pretty compliment by bidding them to a tea-
party before he left Sydney. The Dewan, very
erect as to carriage and dressed in the long
black coat and ceremonial scarf a Brahmin
gentleman wears when in India, the keen
eyes beneath his turban looking out at once
humorously and sympathetically on the world,
received his guests in his own suite at the
Australia. How brusque our best manners
are compared with the magnolia-like suavity
of “the East” ! The fine poise of the Dewan
never slipped even when, during the dis-
cussion of the ways of East and West, the
vexed question of Indian migration was
raised. He is all for racial purity, and is
an upholder of our White Australia policy
and a great admirer of our high standard
of living. But, says he, why not let the
Indian married man come and settle here
with his family V lie insisted that his race,
was no more tolerant than our own of
mixed marriages. In all, it was the argu-
ment of a gentleman for the less-favored of
his own race, “brothers in Empire” with
ourselves, as he pointed out. Whether as an
Australian you agreed with the matter of
his argument, you could not but admire the
manner of it.
.lust before tea came in the talk veered
to language, and, blown in that direction by
Ken Slessor and one or two others of like
inclination, it turned to poetry. Then came
the most charming interlude of the after-
noon. The Dewan produced a Sanskrit
poem, which he chanted. It sounded like
the Morse code set to music. It held long
rising cadences that suddenly broke and fell
with the beat of raindrops. Then came a
tea with the most varied array of sand-
wiches that the art of the vegetarian could
devise. With tea the personage’s son, a
slim young man, much smaller than his
father, introduced melting brown eyes and
perfect English tailorings into the discus-
sion.
Floating ribs and floating kidneys got along
swimmingly with arteries in all stages of
health and disrepair at the Life Saver and
First-Aider Ball out at the Palais. This
function, for the Royal Life-Saving Society
and the St. John Ambulance Association, was
one of the triumphs of organisation over
time —it was arranged with fewer prelimi-
naries than any other of the season’s func-
tions. To the Palais, newly swept and gar-
nished, the revellers poured in from Coogee,
Bondi, Manly, Point Piper and Darling Point.
Chief Justice Street’s lady was president, and
graced it in the twilight-blue and silver bro-
cades she made such a hit in at the United
Service dance. Mrs. J. J. Lee, the secretary,
impressed herself on the retina in lacquer-
red georgettes weighted by a hem of black
fox. Like a well-regulated fire glowed Sister
Parry’s embossed georgette and fringe. Mana-
ger of the Commonwealth Bank Hull (and
who can help a man more than lie to keep
his head above water?), W. H. Walker and
Kelso King were among the men on the
reel. Navy Chieftain Kobins brought his
lady and daughter, and Olive Kelso King put
in an appearance in a mixture of rose georg-
ette and Limerick lace that might have
been the inspiration for one of her too-rare
poems. The Norman Aronsons were fare-
welled yet again, and Mrs. George Fitz Pa-
trick wore sea georgettes so crusted with
opalescence that it reminded one of what
Edward Dyson somewhere called peacock
waters, and the president of the Coogee Surf
Club made a splash with an outsize party
colorful in plumage and blithe in note.
It was a remarkable theatrical first-night
when Sydney took the Dutch actress Beppie
de Vries to its heart on Saturday. Probably
more understudies in other theatres got
their chances than on any other single occa-
sion for ages ; managerial heads were strongly
in evidence, and when, somew T here after 11,
the curtain fell and rose again on a flower-
piled stage, players from all the other show-
houses lined the back of the d.c. Altogether
it was a generous audience which gave good
grounds for the little lady’s after-curtain
thanks to the Taits for having brought her
this way. As nice a speech this as any
recent stage-lady has made. But that is not
saying much, for the speech from the stage
has developed into a thoroughly bad habit.
Miss Milli Meyer’s lectures on Palestine
drew whole battalions of Diggers first to the
Y.M.C.A. Hall, and afterwards to !St. James’s.
Once again through her eyes Billjim saw
Jerusalem the Golden —saw more of it than
he had done when, the Casual Crusader, he
wrested the Holy City from the Turk. In
his days of occupation of the high-throned
place of minarets and cupolas, with the
brooding peace of the Mount of Olives over
all, the soldier saw very little of the old or
Biblical town. Jaffa, perched behind a
harbor bristling with cruel fangs of rock;
Tyre, which, as the enraged prophet fore-
told, is now but a place for the fisherman to
hang his nets upon; the desolation of the
Dead Sea; the sweets of the Jordan Valley—
all these things lived again as the tiny travel-
ler told the wonders she had seen. Pales-
tine, she avers, might still be a land flowing
with milk and honey; the comb drips
wherever a hollow log or a cleft in the rocks
allows the busy bees to build. All it needs
is occupation. This, too, is the opinion of
Dr. Alexander Goldstein, now making an
appeal to Jewry in Sydney to support the
Zionist movement, so that the poor and
harassed Jew of Mid-Europe may find peace
in the land of his fathers.
Another Girls’ Week enthusiast looks out
from the window in this paragraph. She is
Eleanor Gough, and her work keeps her
constantly in
touch with the
motlier-in - the-
making. Miss
Gough is lec-
turer-in-charge
o f Women’s
Handicrafts at
the Technical
College, and
she is respon-
sible for the
handicraft sec-
tion at the
Girls’ W eek
Exhibition now
filling the
Town Hall.
Lilian Quod-
ling, who met
her romance
while working
among the
ledgers of
a city bank,
went back to her father’s home in Cooma
for her wedding. The romance, Keith John-
son, a son of the Morley Johnsons, of Warra-
wee, duly claimed her at the local Church
of St. Paul's. The bridal dress was a la
Duchess of York and combined pink-chiffon
velvet and pearl splashings. Woodstock,
near Cooma, the home of the E. 11. Litch-
fields, the bride’s uncle and aunt, held the
subsequent gaieties.
Two of the most farewelled women who
sailed to England by the Naldera were the
wife of Australia’s new High Commissioner
and little Mrs. Arthur Scrivener. They ran
each other a dead-heat in the tea-drinking
endurance contest. One of the last speeches
made by the Commissioner’s lady was at the
party given in her honor by the Victoria
League. This was housed in the Women’s
Club, and above the high collar of chinchilla
that finished her black topcoat the lady
assured the assembly that she would do
everything in her power to make London less
of a wilderness for the 00,000 Australians
who journey there every year. Mrs. Scrive-
ner’s last bouquet was thrust on her at the
Country Women’s Club; and the Tuesday
voluntary workers at Burdekin House are
still sporting the willow for their admired
commandant.
To walk as a very little girl with the
Autocrat of the Breakfast Table; to find
him in real life a little dried-up shell of a
man animated by a spirit just as vivid as
his own celebrated line
Flash out a stream of blood-red wine!
to be transplanted from the highlands outside
New York while still but a baby to Constan-
tinople ; to know intimately the great in art
and letters from babyhood—so much has been
the happy lot of the subject of this picture.
She is the wife
of Sir Hugh
Poynter, son
of the artist
whose magni-
ficent picture
of Sheba’s visit
t o Solomon
enriches ou r
National Gal-
lery, and she
is a poetess in
her own right.
She could
hardly help be-
ing that when
her childhood
, was wrapped
about by the
romance of the
Bosphorus and
th e history-
steeped Black
Sea. And she
will tell you
with a merry twinkle that she crowned her
career by marrying a son of one of the five
famous Macdonald sisters. Of these five
daughters of a scholarly but otherwise
poorly-endowed Highland minister, one be-
came the mother of Rudyard Kipling (“the
wittiest woman in India," to wdiom Ruddy
dedicated his early books), another married
Burne-Jones, a third became the wife of Poyn-
ter, R.A., and a fourth the mother of Stanley
Baldwin, Britain’s great political leader. The
fifth sister, who never married, uses a
facile and fantasy-steeped pen. No match-
making mother or Molyneux models had the
sisters to help them —nothing but wit and
charm and home-made dresses! Beauty, too,
one suspects. The lady of the picture more
than measures up to the standards of charm
and humor set by the Macdonald sisters.
Sydney will have a chance to prove this
statement, for Lady Poynter is already a
vice-president of the Society of Women
Painters, and has identified herself with the
Lvceum Club and the Society of Women
W riters.
Mrs. Burley Griffin, bringing with her the
atmosphere of russet apples, spoke of home
craft to an interested group of housewives
the other day. Light aud cheerfulness are
the two essentials of any home, she says—
a palace without them is only a prison.
Flat-roofed houses built around grassy and
flowering courtyards is the vision that up-
lifts Mrs. Griffin—courtyards wherein the
sun by day and the stars by night could be
enjoyed with something of the privacy denied
the front porch. Somehow when Mrs.
Griffin talked, that garden spot in the middle
of the home did sound a better possy for
saying good-night than the gas-box. But
to make it really popular the 14 full-length
plate-glass windows Mrs. Griffin mentions in
her scheme must face the other way. Another
innovation that sounded good till one remem-
bered the sting of the skeeter was the garden
a-top of the reinforced-concrete roof. Nine
inches of soil will turn such a roof into a
place where prize roses or cabbages will
grow, or if you are so inclined you may turn
it into a tennis-court and train the kid to
become a Lenglen.
“How many knots d’you make?” is the
riddle the pews of St. James’s are putting to
the altar. Still another craft was sent bob-
bob-bobbin’ along the honeymoon sea at the
old King-street launching-place when Judith
Macansh, of Bowral, became one with Dr.
George Hallida.v, now of Killara, formerly
of Cooma.
Glistening like a snow-maiden in her ivory
georgettes and silver, pretty Nell Sawyer,
whisking a froth of old lace in her wake,
was the most gazed-at bride in St. James’s
during the week. Nell is a daughter of the
Matt Sawyers of Eulomo. Bethungra, and her
groom is Maxwell Critchley Hinder, whose
father was the well-known surgeon. Charley
Morgan Jones was the only bridesmaid, and
wore with her shell-pink • georgettes a float-
ing tulle head-dress tied with a gold riband.
The reception was produced under the direc-
tion of the bride’s parents at the Australia.
Still another Bur wood girl has married
into the Navy; midway through last week
St. James’s saw the clash of cutlery when
Betty Slade emerged the wife of* Lieut.
Harrie Oliver of H.M.A.S. Platypus. The
bride’s father, O. N. Slade, gave her away,
and with her a gold lame frock, which wore
its sleeves wrist length, and had its expen-
sive appearance more expensified by a veil
and train of old Limerick lace. Trailing
clouds of glory like a pink and gold sunset
came four bridesmaids supported by gallant
sprigs of the Navy. Mrs. Allard's pretty
voice poured liquid music over the exit, and
the waiters at the Australia poured liquid
refreshment over the subsequent gaieties, for
which the bride’s mother graced a blue
and gold dress-symphony.
Constance (Bubby) Bowman, daughter of
the late Percy Bowman, has decided to
explore matrimony with Dr. C. C. Finlay,
an ex-soldier medico, who has hung out his
shingle at Goondiwindi (Q.). The young
man is the fifth son of Dr. Sinclair Finlay,
and most of his brethren are extracting fees
for keeping Sydney out of gaol or the
grave. He did five years at the Front, and was
twice mentioned in dispatches. The bride-
to-be will be remembered as a very popular
dux of Armidale Girls’ College. She lives
with her mother, Mrs. John Boss, of Boo-
bera, Goondiwindi.
On the first night of June Padre Hugh
Baton cast the anxious eye of the host over
St. Stephen’s and got the matrimonial gyves
ready for Maisie Watt and Peter Headlam.
of Tasmania. The bride, who is the youngest
daughter of Alexander Watt, of Manly, wore
ivory velvet and Venetian point, fashioned
into the picturesque mode of the ’thirties.
The skirt showed a deep hem and redingote
oi ivory chiffon, both with faint traceries
of rose leaves. The transparent train which
fell from the shoulders had the same vel-
vety embroideries trailing about its borders.
A veil of mixed Venetian point and cut
tulle, sprayed the last bit of star-dust over
the glittering whole. Sister Bessie and
Queenie McLeish followed the bride in bro-
cades of gold and silver. Warmth was
ensured by sleeveless chiffon coats finished
with collars of finest coque feathers. Rus-
sian turbans of cream felt and velvet and
armlets of scarlet geraniums finished oft'
their splendor. Dr. Eric Glassford and
Keith Martin attended the groom, and the
bride’s aunt, Mrs. Gatehouse (Melb.), did
the honors later at the Rose Bay golf house.
Kitty was an entirely neglected person
when the Rose Bay bowlers went to Un-
Wentworth for their third annual ball. How-
ever, the veterans and the young recruits oi
the savage game that frightened the Armada
from Plymouth Hoe seemed perfectly happy
without her; and when their champion
waltzer swung Mrs. Maclurcan, the hotels
chatelaine, around the big ballroom to the
strains of the “Blue Danube” fair women and
•brave men rose in a fever of enthusiasm.
Previously Mr. Morrow and Mrs. Gordon had
been awarded the prize for being the best
waltzers in the room. The dance had a
committee mixed as to sex and 24 as to
number, of whom M.L.A. Foster was pre-
sident. Joe Carruthers and his lady, and
knight Robert Anderson and the Foster.
Cooley and Webster matrons were among the
vice-presidents. A guest of note was Mrs.
W. E. Reese, president of the Western bub
urbs Ladies’ Bowling Club.
Admirers of the nimble and music-filled
fingers of Laurence Godfrey Smith hastened
to the Con. for the concert with winch he
celebrated his return to Sydney. A Bach
group opened the recital, and in the Chro-
matic Fantasy and Fugue the artist warmed
his listeners in turn with his brilliance and
the fulness of bis tone. Bracketed with this
number was a Bouree (in spite of its Scotch-
sounding name, it has no connection with
porridge), Brahms and Cesar Franck; and a
collection of delicate fragments rounded olt a
hill to which Merle Miller added sweet mezzo-
soprano notes and Joseph M. lost supplied
the accompaniments.
When Dr. George Waddell, of the law
firm of Minter Simpson, left his home at
Darling Point the other morning he had
no warning that two hours later he would
be recalled to find tragedy installed there.
During the morning his slim and vigorous
young wife strolled across to her neighbor.
Dr. Lipscomb, to have some tennis. In the
very act of serving an overhead ball, she
fell forward and before her partner could
roach her she had lapsed into uncou-
sciousness, from which she did not emerge.
A few hours later she was dead. A great
circle of younger married Sydney grieves
over the sudden passing.
A London note :
Hugh Hordern, of Sydney, has done the thin?
expected of all well-dowered young men who are
sent far from home to gain experience. He has
announced his engagement to Vera Bryer, who is
playing a small part in “Lady Luck” at the Carlton
Theatre. Young Hordern first met his fiancee early
last year when he came from Cambridge to London,
where she was playing in “Tip Toes” at the Winter
Garden.


JiARjDY BRQTHERJ LTft
Inexpensive Wedding Gifts
of Cased Table Plate
BA 8608.
Three-piece Set of Horn-handled Carvers, Joseph Rodgers
and Sons' best quality steel. In presentation case.
£l/8/-
Six pairs Hardy’s Silver-plate Fish
Knives and Forks, in velvet-lined case.
£3/15/-
BA 8620.
Six Hardy’s Silver-plate Soup Spoons, “Old
English” pattern; in velvet-lined case
£2/15/-
Five per cent, discount for cash.
Hardy’s new illustrated catalogue will he sent to any address post free on request.
298-300
COLLINS ST.,
MELBOURNE
H A R.DY
BROTHERS LTD.
< 3tz°Housc oP &3ggLlsivc 3ewelUnj
13 HUNTER STREET, SYDNEY.
And at LONDON.
JI6-118
QUEEN ST.,
BRISBANE.
ff*
*0
.r,
SN
T/re &ey to
S Better Health
Sanategen is
obtainable at all
Chemists from
3/9 per tin.
The strain of modem life is too great
for most people. Something is wanted
that will give extra vigour to nerves
and blood. Sanatogen does just that;
it infuses into the cells of blood and
nerves those elements—phosphorus and
albumin which build New Strength.
Dame Sarah Grand, Mayoress of Bath,
writes:
"Nothing ever does me so much good
when I’m run-down as Sanatogen.
It has set me up, and kept me up,
again and again.”
Sanatogen is the key that fits, the key
that will open a new era of healthy,
happy life for you. A few weeks
will show you.
SANATOGEN
The True Tonic-Food
GENATOSAN LTD.. LOUGHBOROUGH, ENGLAND.
i )u
|
n
m
m
st
m
CO?
tflto#
il«
Mayes'
Australian
Builders
AND
Contractors'
PRICE BOOK
Practically Re-written in every
Branch of Construction, greatly
enlarged, illustrated and alpha-
betically arranged.
9th Edition
Price 15/- Posted 15/4
RIGHT UP-TO-DATE.
Invaluable for
Architects, Shire Engineers & Property Owners.
ESTIMATES FOR
All kinds of House Building Costs, Fitting and Lighting, Wire and other
Fencing, Automatic Closing Gates, Plough and Scoop Work, Tank and Weil
Sinking, Excavation, Dam Making, Septic Tanks, Pumps, Windmills, Hydraulic
Rams, Tractors, Pelton Wheels, Oil and other Engines, Wood Stave Pipes,
Boring for Water, Tree Rooting and Logging Plants, Felling and Squaring
Trees and Working of Timber, Pneumatic Tools for all classes of Boring.
Drilling and Hammer Tools. Different Air Compressors illustrated, with
prices. Concrete Mixers, Modern Road-making Plants, Modern Construction
Tables for Reinforced Concrete, Facing of Buildings (Faence) in Terra Cotta,
Sandstone, Ceramic, etc.
All Building Costs
can be checked with the aid of
Mayes’ Builders & Contractors’ Price Book.
PUBLISHED BY
N. S.W. BOOKSTALL CO., LTD,
CASTLEREAGH AND MARKET STREETS, SYDNEY.
'N
Q;
is the hind of food
ninth which successful men
begin the day
Grape-Nuts can be
of greatest benefit
to you. Try it for
breakfast to-morrow!
Your grocer has it.
Grape-Nuts is one of
the Post Health
Products, which in-
clude also Instant
Postum. Postura
Cereal, and Post
Toasties (Double-
thick Corn Flakes).
Make Your Own Breakfast
a Better, Health-giving Meal!
To make your own breakfast a better
breakfast—.-try Grape-Nuts! These
crisp, delicious, golden kernels are so
high in food value that they make a
small breakfast entirely safe. Grape-
Nuts gives your body dextrins, maltose
and other carbohydrates for heat and
energy; iron for the blood; phos-
phorus for teeth and bones; protein for
muscle and body-building; and the
essential vitamin-B, a builder of the
appetite. Eaten with milk or cream,
it is an admirably balanced ration.
»I 9
RS
Wholesale Agents:
LEWIS 8c CULL, 316 Pitt Street, Sydney.


A. SAUNDERS’
PRESENTATION
TROPHIES
A. Saunders’ Rose Bowl, Pure Silver-
plated A 1 quality, on Ebonised Plinth,
£5/10/-. l jarger Size, £B/10/-
A. Saunders’ Sports Cup, Pure
Silver-plated on Polished Wood
Base, 75/-. Others, 84/-,
100/-, £5/10/-, £6/10/-,
' £7/10/- to £2O.
m
M
IE3"
A. Saunders’ Afternoon Tea Set and Tray, Pure Silver-plated A 1 Quality,
£l2/10/-
- WRITE FOR CATALOGUE.
WE PAY POSTAGE
A. SAUNDERS,
\Va t oh maker—Jeweller —Optician,
805-813 GEOROE STREET (opposite Railway Station), SYDNEY.
S lain
The Watchword
for Elegance
and Efficiency
The Timepiece for all Time
It is curious to think that the one
thing in the world which is most
mechanical in its action, and
most practical in purpose, should
be also the most beautiful in design.
Wafer-like, durable, artistic, and,
above all, accurate, the Elgin is
indeed a Timepiece for all time.
OBTAINABLE AT ALL LEADING JEWELLERS
THIS TRADE MARK
IN THE WATCH CASE
SOLID SILVER OOLF CUPS
MACE an© SPOIRTS
TEOPHIES
No. 4862.
Staffing Silver Two-handle
Cup, with model of golfer,
ou ebonised plinth.
Height, without plinth—
inches • 417/10/-
„ - ta
~ • -£lO/10/-
„ - mm-
Solid Silver Miniature Two-
handle Cup, with cbonised
plinth. Height, without
plinth, 4-| in. £4/4/-
Wm. Drummond & Co. ’$
Workshop is equipped
to manufacture special
designs in either Gold or
Siloer.
No. 4906.
Silver Two-handle Cup of
chaste design, on ebonised
plinth. Height, without
plinth. 4| in. ii3/J/-
No. 2616.
Solid Silver Golf Stick Cup,
on chorused plinth. Height,
exclusive of plinth, 4\ in.
£i.
Liberal concessions will
be extended to all Golf
Clubs and Presentation
Committees.
No 4884.
Solid Silver Two-handle
Cup, surmounted with
model of golfer or tennis
player. Height, without
plinth, 6 1 in. £7.
XT
A;
TTENTION is invited to the fact that the firm possesses the best facilities in Australia
for submitting to the inspection of Golf and other Sporting Clubs appropriate Trophies
and Cups for presentation purposes. Miniature Cups in Sterling Silver range in price
from £2 upward. In addition to these a wide range of larger Cups, also in Sterling Silver,
and of newest shapes, is available. These are all of the very finest manufacture, made
.by the best London Silversmiths. The firm allows a special discount to Clubs.
WM DRUMMOND 6 CO
344-346 COLLINS ST MELBOURNE
The Aristocrat of Musical
Instruments
The
DUOPHONE
DOUBLE
Tone Arm.
SINGLE Needle.
DOUBLE
Reproduce
FAITHFUL REPRODUCTION ABSOLUTELY GUARANTEED
Table Models and Cabinets suitable
for any Home at reasonable prices.
COUNTRY AGENTS PLEASE COMMUNICATE WITH US.
Terms or Cash
For Illustrated Catalog, Terms List, etc., write to
GLORIA LIGHT CO.,
DUOPHONE DEPARTMENT,
CORNER CLARENCE AND MARKET STREETS,
SYDNEY.
’Phone: City 10006.


for Good Cakes
and Puddings
* - C - - - te—-
Choice Australian Raisins, seeded,
stemmed, cleaned and ready for use,
either for making cakes or puddings.
Also For Dessert.
In cardboard cartons of about one pound.
Swallow t Ariell's
Seeded RAISINS
In the Heart
of the City.
Scott’s Hotel, Melbourne, suits the busi-
ness man perfectly, being but a step or
two from most business establishments,
and very near to railway station and steamship wharves.
It gives quiet, efficient attention, every comfort, and a per-
fect table. Hot and cold water service and direct and inter-
communicating telephones in each bedroom.
Inclusive Tariff by Day or Bed and Breakfast Rate.
WRITE FOR TARIFF CARD.
Telegrams: “Scott's, Melbourne.” ’Plione: 9012 (6 lines).
8.23
EtO
MELBOURNE.
rz
Melbourne
Chatter
Buckley's
Elizabethan
Tea Rooms
F[?] Contral 800for P[?]
Buckley e-Nunn, Lrimited.
So[?] so M[?]
The world awoke on Saturday morning
to a day that was grey and cold, and a
deluge of rain that looked like lasting. But
by 10 o’clock all was beautifully line and
crisply chilly, so the King’s Birthday meet-
ing at Flemington opened quite cheerfully.
It was an occasion for furs, and the dis-
play was varied, sable, squirrel and mink
competing with cat, calf and bunny.
Cloth coats were well collared and cuffed,
and mostly edged with some sort of pelt, and
no one who faced the breeze in a tailored
suit forgot a fur choker. Some sensible
young people covered their silk-clad calves
and shins —smoke-grey is the latest stocking
tint —with spattees or gaiters. His Ex. was
there with Secretary Davidson, but society
wasn’t very strongly represented. Mrs. Lang-
liam Noakes, who was Viola Buchan, nursed
one of the new Tou-Tou bags, representing
a white and black spaniel, against her Wedg-
wood-blue costume; and her sister Sheila
carried what looked like an all-white puppy.
Mrs. John Winter-Irving was wrapped in a
coat of natural musquash, and her daughter,
Mrs. Geoffrey Heath, had a coat of mink mar-
mot with double flounces. Mrs. .T. S. Feehan
contrasted a pink felt hat with a covering
of nutria fur; Mrs. Fred Scarlett and her
daughter Nancy affected furs of unusual
appearance, and Mrs. Rogers Thomson’s
black ensemble suit was fur-collared, and
allied to black millinery with a dash of
cerise. Florrie Green’s cape of mole courted
attention; her sister, Mrs. James Purves,
was well tailored in black cloth, with addi-
tions of mink; Secretary A. V. Ivewney’s
wife was well turned out in black. Among
the smartly clad of the younger set were
June Joshua, Lucy Stogdale and Kath
Rogers-Thomson. Patrons included Mrs. Ben
Chaffey. the Weston Petts, Mrs. Alec
McCracken, Mrs. Mcßride, the T. M. Burkes
and Mrs. Turner Shaw.
The Victoria League said good-bye to the
Granville Ryries at No. 9 on Friday night.
The Australian-born farmer-general talked
amusingly about his war experiences after
General Chauvel had turned thoughts in that
direction by a sketch of Ryrie’s activities
from Gallipoli to the Armistice. Chief-
Justice Irvine’s lady came to the gathering
after the Birthday dinner at Government
House. The new High Commissioner’s lady
was in a black draped gown with a sparkle
of diamente, and her daughter’s Oriental
red frock was gold-embroidered. The Masson
lady wore a cape of vellum-toned old lace
over her soft black lace, and Mrs. J. S.
Fraser’s cloak of gold-and-black brocade dis-
closed a glitter of sequins and crystal.
Mayoress Morell and Mrs. Stewart Brunton
wore two of the prettiest black dresses, of
the gathering, both having tracery of rhine-
stones. Mrs. Harry Emmerton, whose ermine
wrap almost concealed her blaek-and-gold
lace raiment, received congratulation upon
her newly-won 0.8. E. The Chauvel lady
wore pink, embellished with beads. Colonel
Officer’s wife was a distinguished figure, her
unshingled grey hair banded with jade-green
and her gown of silver brocade. There was
a sparkle of crystal upon Mrs. H. S. K.
Ward’s mauve gown. The Arthur Horderns,
Mrs. W. G. L. Spowers, and Canon and
Mrs. Snodgrass were there. Eileen June,
who sang, wore an Early-Victorian frock of
floral-patterned heliotrope silk, with a poke
bonnet, and later appeared in a frock of.
nattier blue.
The F'indon Harriers, who had a good
run at Epping on Friday, introduced a varia-
tion in the coloring of hunting scenes, the
Master, Hubert Miller, and some other mem-
bers wearing Lincoln-green coats and black
velvet caps. Lady Somers motored out and
followed the hounds on Jean Russell’s Don.
The Governor’s wife rides side-saddle, wear-
ing a habit of dark navy cloth, with a skirt.
There were several spills, and no kill. Gen-
eral Johnston’s daughter Gwen came down
heavily, receiving a slight concussion. Among
the girls who took the fences safely were
•Joan Chirnside, Joyce a’Beckett, Noel and
Fairlie Lyon, Lyell Madden and Shirley and
Betty Bayles.
Zillah Bateman wears some pretty apparel
in “Eliza Comes to Stay,” which arrived at the
Athemeum on Saturday night. Horn-rimmed
glasses, hair screwed up into a tight knob,
ill-fitting clothes and a straw sailor hat are
the first-act preparations for the development
of the Cinderella motif. Later on, when Eliza
has been transformed into Dorothy, Miss
Bateman makes a fascinating study in
petuuia-hued taffeta with a bordering of
varied shaded ribbons, topped by Dolly Var-
den millinery. An equally dainty frock is of
apricot-shade with a hem line of net and
tracery of colored bebe ribbons. Jessie
Page vamps it in a cream suit that shows
a dash of orange beneath the coat, with
buttons of the same color and a white felt
hat with an orange feather. There were
flowers galore at the last curtain, and the
leading lady gave thanks. The William Bates
couple, Mrs. Percy Deane and Mrs. Scott,
Harriet Beunet’s mother and aunt, Ceridwen
Kelly and Vivienne Knox Knight and her
fiance, Douglas Faulkner, were firstnighters.
The Ladies’ Kennel Club’s 23rd Champion-
ship Show filled Wirths’ Pavilion with a
cacophony of barks and yelps on Thursday,
and on Friday the cats came along to reprove
the canines with their quiet dignity. Lady
Somers, accompanied by Mrs. E. H. David-
son, president of the club, arrived when the
shades of night were falling fast to hand out
blue ribbons and other trophies to proud
owners. The doggies of high degree were led
into the ring to receive their awards, but
the cats remained in-their pens. The quaint-
est thing in the show was the wee Yorkshire
terrier Toti dal Monte. Bustled up to re-
ceive her ribbon, she tumbled over every yard
or so, in contrast to the sprightly tripping of
the prettiest pom, Little Goldspeck, who
toddled up like a golden-brown fur muff on
legs. Mrs. Fritz Hart’s black-and-tan terrier
puppy was a delightful little chap, too. Mrs.
W. PI. Water’s Poke, Wee Wow, took the
ring with the aplomb that comes of a distin-
guished theatrical career, having appeared
with Nellie Stewart and more recently with
Muriel Starr. The big bow-wows were nice,
but the little ones got all the “olis” and
“ahs.” Profits of the show will help the
Children’s Hospital.
Tea and cake were served by the president
and members of the W.C.T.U. at an Inde-
pendent Hall welcome to Miss E. Solomon,
of South Africa, one of the pillars of the
movement. The lady received, besides posies,
greetings from delegates of various women’s
societies; Mrs. Glencross, Mrs. Britomarte
James and Mrs. John Jones were amongst
the speakers. The visitor said that though
S. African women haven’t yet got the fran-
chise they play an important part in muni-
cipal affairs, and four of the nine members of
the films censorship board are women. Miss
Solomon herself was one of the first two who
sat in judgment on the flickers. Mrs. John
McLeod and Councillor Angela Booth
attended to the vote of thanks.
The W.C.T.U. is deeply interested in film
censorship, and if some of the members had
their way, the flickergraph would be cen-
sored right out of existence. At the latest
half-yearly conference one lady laid down
the axiom that “pictures are an incentive to
crime and immorality,” and the president,
Mrs. Beresford Jones, told a harrowing story
of experiences in the Children’s Court where
small offenders frequently blame the movies
for their misdeeds. The president of the
National Council of Women, Mi’s. Glencross,
took the view that pictures can’t be abolished
altogether, but that they ought to be made
“decent.” She would cut out glimpses of
the underworld, the hectic recreations of the
ungodly rich, and even the heroic exploits
of cowboys, since these things unsettle the
mind of the young person. It was agreed
by all that men, with their. coarse minds,
are not fitted for the task of censorship,
which should be undertaken by women, who
would make short work of immoral ten-
dencies.
The success of a recital given by Carmen
Pascova in Vienna was recorded in the
news cables on a recent morning. The dramatic
soprano pi c-
tured for us by
Ruth Hollick
sang about a
year ago at
concerts here
after appear-
ances in opera
abroad. Last
April she left
for London by
way of South
Africa, her
father, Carl
Pinscliof, ac-
c o m panying
her, but he
died at Cape-
town on the
A-oyage back.
The singer,
who off-stage
is Mrs. Arthur
Harri s, in-
her i t s her
talent from her mother, the late Madame
Wiederman, a singer of Continental repu-
tation, who Avas for some years a teacher
at the Uni. Con. with the late Marshall Hall.
Gladys MacDowell has at last perfected her
plans for carrying music into the schools.
Her scheme has had a term’s tidal, and re-
sults are reckoned satisfactory. Tavo or three
concert programmes are given at each school
in a term, forming a carefully-planned series,
and there are explanatory talks, so that the
youngsters may cultivate an intelligent inter-
est in the fare provided. Thirty-two schools
are benefiting by the mission at present. _ At
the first concert Ada Freeman was solo pian-
ist, Raymond Ellis sang in five languages,
and Miss MacDowell read a paper. The
music was drawn from Handel, Schubert and
Mozart, with a dash of Percy Grainger to
give the modern flavor. An introduction to
orchestrated music was given in another con-
cert by the Rita Hope trio. Beethoven is
the subject of a series all to himself. Flautist
Leslie Barklam, violinist Cecil Parkes and
the British Music Society’s quartette have
been drawn upon as executants.
The three lectures given at the Albert-
street Con. by Diana Watts (Mrs. Rudkin)
put heart of grace into many a woman on
the wrong side of 30. The lecturer, whose
theme was the ancient Grecian arts of pose
and body-culture, was attractively attired in
a neglige of sapphire blue velvet, which she
discarded to demonstrate the exercises she
advocated and to illustrate the beauty of
statuesque poises. In her tunic of cream
silk, with silk hose and ballet-slioes, the
lady looked much younger than her years—-
a testimony to the efficacy of the measures
she prescribes.
Buckley and Nunn lent the cafe and staff
and provided victuals and drink for a cabaret
show in the interests of Melbourne Hospital
one afternoon last week. The Red Cross
Auxiliary’s entertainments branch engineered
the show, with the Tallis lady as prime
mover. Mrs. George Healy was lion. sec.
and Marjorie Aitken kept the purse. The
Firm and 3LO were drawn upon for enter-
tainers, and Stephanie Deste, Marie Brem-
ner, Eileen Starr and Victor Gouriet were
amongst those who amused the throng. There
were stalls for the vending of posies, lolli-
pops and mushrooms, and a raffle or two.
Helpers were thanked by Aaron Danks, the
hospital’s president.
Jeanette, youngest daughter of James
Barrett and his lady, stood up at the altar
of the C. of E. Grammar School chapel with
B. Henry Marks, of Fiji, on a recent evening,
when vows were exchanged. The bride wore
a lengthy robe of white georgette with embroi-
dery of pearls and interruptions of silver lace.
Veil and train were of white tulle, edged
with filmy lace. The three maids took the
aisle in a Froncliy effect of pink georgette
and turquoise-blue velvet ribbon, with hats
brightened with silver. The Barrett lady
Avas hostess afterwards at the Windsor in a
gown of apricot hue with shimmer of crys-
tal and sequin adornment. Cara Barrett
attended her sister’s nuptials in a lemon
taffeta frock of pompadour pattern.
Max Pirani and his wife, Leila Double-
day, of violin fame, are greeting friends after
many years of absence from their native
land. Pirani, who is one of the L.C.M. pro-
fessors, has come from Fogtown to examine
this year’s crop of Australian musical aspi-
rants. Besides a big teaching connection he
takes the concert stage as a pianist and is
leader of a trio of which his wife and ’cellist
Charles Hambourg (brother of pianist
Mark) are the other members.
Mrs. Pirani brings news that brother
Kingsley Doubleday is making himself a
niche in art-and-craft work in London, after
studying under Dr. Cizek of Vienna.
After a year of understudying the title-
role of “Rose Marie,” Marie Bremner got
her chance at a matinee last week, when
Harriet Bennet had a rest. The young Aus-
tralian made a good showing in the part, her
acting being effective and her singing satis-
factory.
The Victoria League now boasts a club —-
on a somewhat limited scale, it’s true, but a
cosy little retreat. It was opened the other
afternoon by the Masson lady. The club’s
president, Dr. Maudsley’s wife, was also on
hand, and her Ex. was one of the guests.
Jessie Traill’s slioav of water-colors and
etchings caught the eye of the National Gal-
lery trustees, who bought four specimens of
the artist’s work. An aquatint and two
etchings were among the pieces selected.
Mrs. Norman Brookes turned the ballroom
of her home into an art gallery on Friday
afternoon, so that Bess Golding might show
her Avatercolors and miniatures. The State
Governor’s lady cantered home early from the
Findon Harriers’ run to launch the shoAV and
was handed some violets in acknowledgment.
She wore a coat of chanel red cloth, a felt
hat of the same hue, and a kasha frock. Mrs.
Brookes’s draped gown of dahlia-red was
allied to a black silk hat. Mrs. Harry
Emmerton added sables to her raiment of
black lace. Dr. Bartolini and Thelma Neil
sang to William Burrell’s accompaniments
and Lindsay Biggins played. The Irvine,
Clarke and Elder ladies, Mrs. Bowes Kelly
and Mrs. Herbert Power were among
interested viewers. Several sales were made
and orders given for some miniature portraits.
Murray Griffin, a young artist of promise
and ambition, is hanging his Avork at the
New Gallery for a few days.
An after-tlie-Yorks slump affects the pur-
veyors of smart feminine attire. Prices have
been cut in all directions, and even the
haughtiest and most expensive of modistes
are hanging out sale signs. Winter wraps
and coats and woollies, both for under and
outer wear, are a lot cheaper, and so are
suits, ensemble gowns and bespangled and
sequinned evening frocks.
There’ll be a fancy-dress jazz for young
Australians at St. Kilda Town Hall on July
16 to swell the S.P.A.’s “Animal Week”
collection. The Norman Brookes, Harry
Gullett, C. Lort Smith, Ken Niall and
Rupert Wortheim matrons are making great
preparations, and there will be movies and
a conjurer. Lady Somers has promised to
bring her small girl.
Agnes Murphy’s note from London :
Ola and Ziska Cohn, the two brainy and breezy
young nieces of Mrs. Josef Cohn, who once were
prominent in Melbourne amateur theatricals, have
had a very interesting time in Europe. Ola, the
elder, intends remaining another year for further
study, her sculpture having been highly praised.
Ziska, who specialises in landscape gardening, sails
for Australia early in May. She has had access to
the finest gardens belonging to the aristocracy, and
she includes in her studies architecture. Like her
sister, she is of an original turn of mind. Their
aunt, Mrs. Cohn, will be recalled as a very picturesque
brunette who played Lady Teazle to the Sir Peter
of J. P. Catheart. The late Sir Frederick McCoy
left her £lOOO in his will, and she subsequently
made a stir in London as a teacher of Danish
physical culture. '
The death of Lord Cowdray has brought his
daughter, Lady Denman, very much into the public
gaze once more —a place she has never sought, despite
her outstanding abilities. Her brother, the new
peer, is a brilliant polo player who has been success-
ful as a soldier and a business man, although gener-
ally thought to be less gifted in a commercial sense
than his younger brother, Clive. It is a popular
belief that Lady Denman has all the qualities of
head and heart to direct successfully the vast re-
sources and enterprises of her gifted father. With
her children, the Hon. Thomas and the Hon. Judith
Denman, she attended Lord Cowdray’s funeral in
Scotland. Lord Denman, Lord Beauchamp and High-
Commissioner Cook’s lady were present at the London
service held in St. Margaret’s, Westminster.
A note from New York:—
Mrs. H. M. O’Hara, widow of Melbourne’s sporting
surgeon, has had a warm welcome in the U.S.A.
from the sons of the family, Clive and George. The
latter has a good post on the stair of the Philadelphia
Steel Works, while Clive seems able to turn an
efficient hand to anything—acting, conjuring, painting
and film-screening are a few of the things he has
already touched with success.
The Little Sisters
Lennon's Hotel
BRISBANE
The Centre of Queensland
Distinguished Social Life!
QUEENSLAND.
Brisbane.
E. Benjamin, son of the late ,T. Benjamin,
of Sydney, took Ruth Myers for keeps at the
Synagogue. The bride was in ivory moire
with lace and silver tissue head-dress. Singer
Ruth Portrait and Miss Myers ’maided, Ruth
in silver brocade, the Myers maiden in pale
pink.
Colonel R. A. Stanley was farewelled on
his retirement by Major J. M. Grant and
the officers of the Corps of Signallers at
Enoggera. Silk streamers in the unit’s
colors, flags,
colored electric
lights and
green foliage
decorated the
camp quarters.
Major Grant
and Mrs. N.
O’Brien me t
the guests, in
the unavoid-
able absence
of Mrs. Grant.
Mrs. O’Brien
wore amber
mariette broi-
der e d in
pearls, amber
beads and se-
quins. A wire-
less concert
wa s listened
to, and there
was dancing.
Mrs. Ray
Stanley wore gold lace, beaded in pink and
blue, and a gold bandeau, and was pre-
sented with a bouquet tied in the unit’s
colors.
(Continued on page J/D.)


t
I
wr
o
w
p
i
%
i
\
AV
fr/y i .11 :u\vvmv4VVvVvy •-V
Simplicity in design is the secret of
Delco-Light dependability.
MODEL 866.
850 watt, 32 volt, complete with 16 cells,
160 amp. hour capacity.
WARBURTON, FRANKI, LTD.,
307-11 Kent Street, Sydney.
380-82 Bourke Street, Melbourne.
233-35 Elizabeth Street, Brisbane.
Sunlight
—after Sunset!
“KJEVER mind the wind whistling round
comers and the spatter of cold rain upon the
windows —inside all is radiant and cheerful
now that we have bright, clear, comfort-giving
electric light in every room.
“We all look forward to these long winter
evenings, for Delco-Light is restful for reading
and clear for indoor games —it makes enter-
taining twice as easy!’’
Delco-Light is easily and quickly installed;
simple, dependable and economical to run. It
provides power, not only for efficient electric
lighting, but for Frigidaire, the Automatic
Refrigerator, for Electric Pumps, Electric Irons,
Vacuum Cleaners and similar household con-
veniences.
And nowadays Radio need never fail, for with
Delco-Light installed you can recharge your
batteries at home.
Now is the time to instal your Delco-Light Plant
—why put up with the discomfort of poor
lighting all through the winter?
There are 25 models from which to choose the
unit exactly suited to your needs. Let us send
you complete information.
PARSONS & ROBERTSON, LTD.,
Pulteney Street, Adelaide.
W. F. STEWART, 29 Cameron Street, Launceston.
Write for Booklet B.
DELCO -LIGHT
Product of General Motors.


“THE WOMAN’S MIRROR,”
PRICE .. .. .. 3d.
Contains everything a woman needs to know.
Legal Notices.
TO WALTER DRAIN formerly of Essen-
d° n in the State of Victoria. TAKE
NOTICE that your wife NORA KATH-
LEEN DRAIN lias instituted proceedings
against you for Divorce on the ground of
desertion AND FURTHER TAKE NOTICE
that unless you enter an appearance to the
suit in the office of the ITothonotary Law
Courts William-street Melbourne within
twenty-one days of the appearance of this
advertisement the suit may proceed in your
absence and you may be ordered to pay
costs. E. J. V. NIGAN, 443 Chancery Lane,
Melbourne. Solicitor for the Petitioner.
Amusements.
THE ALLA N W ILKI E SHAIv-
SPEAREAN PRODUCTIONS
QUEENSLAND TOUR:
Townsville, .lune 9 to 11; Mackay, June 14, 15
and 16; Ipswich, June 20, 21; Toowoomba, June 22.
Sydney Manager: J. V. De Batyn.
Head Office: Pulsford’s Chambers, 178 Castlereagh St.
Cable and Telegraphic Address: “Othello,” Sydney
U.P.O. Box 2229 LL.
ALL AUSTRALIANS visiting London
should read the British Australian
and New Zealander, (>d. weekly—an illus-
trated paper containing mail and cable news
from Australia and news of Australians in
Europe and at home. Australians are cordi-
ally invited to visit the British Australian
and New Zealander Reading-room at the
Offices, 414-17 Australia House, Strand,
London, WC.2, where they can see the home
papers, meet their friends, use the telephone
and obtain information without charge.
Copies of the paper and general information
can be obtained at the Australian Advertis-
ing Agency, Ltd., 350 George Street, Sydney;
or 434 Collins Street, Melbourne.
If any illustration in “The bulletin”
takes your fancy, write to the
Manager, who will quote you price
for the original.
WOLSEY
is the
world’s
best
UNDERWEAR.
It is
made
in
England
by
WOLSEY LTD.
LEICESTER.
WOLSEY LTD.,
316, Flinders Lane,
Melbourne.
e
WOLSEY
also make
SPORTSMAN
Knitted
Outerwear
and
RAMESES
Underwear
and
Hosiery.
d f&Y GrQlj
' f Hair
wm*™**- -' r '™ ’
Tv
J-io
/
mcK*s
SfrOUla tii Amcumk
WALNUT STAIN
Youth a d d t if
<>«« to ,
It i s a l V '“ liusbaud and
Ucrse \ f ’idrS keep betseU
?&
50OTS looki t\Te W l'-' 11 " 6 ' 3
cas«- ‘ £li£e,>e t
Ht fa f t gSSV*; h
grey * e 0 ? passing youth
Should by
seem dlfhcult, but edy
and h '\ lj Dr.
d Tie remedy I& WalnU t
g S’ required sh» d { c p c taists
Obtainable at a_ ( bott i c ,
and stores £ / Ag euts,
« Saiimbury,^
d stores “j tbe Agenw.
or direct / r « aiv mbury,
puerdm & fct (4/6 to cover
' Melbourne % b eroero ber /
poS t t o£kfo’' tl,,:fU /
Colonel Stanley is president of the United
Service Club, and lie and Mrs. Stanley re-
ceived at the club dance—she in crushed mul-
berry velvet, with bouffant skirt and close-
fitting bodice.
Lilian Gormhuille Mackay, of the sparkling
eyes and poetic pen, has been here, staying
with the H. J. Diddamses. She. intends to
make a business of Inky Wayfaring.
Luis Amadeo Pares has decided to take
up the cause of High Art in Brisbane, and
his new “Hall of the Muses” will have walls
whereon the local artist can hang paintings
for the eye of the elusive buyer. Pares
founded the Spanish Club here, and at the
gathering of dons and senoritas this week
there was a concert, given by Professor Elin,
and a talk on Life in Peru. Gertrude Ander-
son played the piano, and Senor Pares
brought his violin.
The Albion Thousand was run in bright
weather, which yet called for winter frock-
iug. The committee entertained SO guests.
Mrs. Archdal] wore rose crepe de Chine under
her black silk coat; Mrs. W. J. Hooper was
in navy with skunk furs; Mrs. 11. J. Tyr-
whitt also wore navy and skunk with a black
felt hat; Mrs. Alan Oxlade had a coney fur
coat over her rose-colored mariette: Mrs. A.
C. V. Melbourne was in stone-pink wool
repp; Mrs. George Cayle had brown fox
furs with her wine-colored crepe, de Chine;
Mrs. Isaac Moore chose a grey tailor-made ;
Oooee Blume navy, with touches of pink and
fuchsia; and Marjorie Woolnough navy,
with grey furs. Amongst others on the lawn
were the Dudley McNabs, the Glyn-Con-
nollys, Kathleen Ilirschfield, A. Hordern
(Sydney), 11. Couples, George Mocatta and
the Eric Wardrops.
In aid of the Carmelite Monastery’s church
building fund Mrs. T. J. Ryan sponsored a
party at the Bellevue amongst the red glory
of poinsettia. Colored electric lights lit the
green-and-gold ballroom, and the Tivoli
orchestra discoursed. Many roses decked the
supper and Egyptian sunflowers dressed the
vice-regal table. Mrs. Lennon wore black
charmeuse, Mrs. Ryan was in amethyst, and
Jill Ryan in rose-colored shot taffetas.
The Harbor Lights Guild had a dance in
All Saints’ Hall for the piano fund of the
Seamen’s Institute. Commander and Mrs.
E. S. Mutton were amongst the large number
there.
Over a hundred volumes were printed by
members of the Braille Association during the
last 12 months. At the annual meeting Mrs.
0. Cowlisliaw was elected president, Mrs.
Lockhart Gibson and Mollie Graham vice-
presidents, Nona Waught sec., Miss Dalgleish
treasurer, and Miss K. Henderson librarian.
WESTRALIA.
Perth.
Mrs. A. J. Herman organised a recent
afternoon at the Repertory Club, when mem-
bers listened to bright items and tasted numer-
ous dainty trifles for tea. Miss Shortland
Jones and Mabel Gibson sang charmingly.
Cecil Swift fiddled, and Leslie Pearce sang.
Mrs. Clarry Meares accompanied, wearing
a Erenchy robe of powder-blue with a velvet-
jacket embroidered in rose on deeper bands
of blue, and a little felt cloche. The other
accompanist was Noreen Riley, in a quaint
suit of checked blue and cream and a vaga-
bond tarn. Mrs. Paton wore deep burgundy
and skunk furs. Doreen O’Hara, always per-
fectly turned out, wore an ensemble in fawn
repp and crepe de Chine. Mrs. Fred Curran
was in mushroom-pink tailorings and Jo
Compton and Florrie Ledger were in navy,
Mrs. Pelham Webb and Marcia Hodges in
mulberry repp, Lois Lathlean (Melbourne) in
a green coat over eau-de-nil silk, and Mrs.
Bishop cream lace and a fawn coat.
This is May Holman, M.L.A., Labor’s only
woman Parliamentarian in Australia. Borrn
at Broken Hill, she came west with her
parents and a
dozen younger
brothers and
sisters. For
14 years she
helped father
in his office as
secretary of
tlie Timber
W o r k e r s’
Union, and at
his death took
his seat in
Pari iament.
She was unop-
posed at the
last State
general elec-
tion. Lately
she was in-
strumental in
getting ihe
Timber Indus-
try Regulation
Act on to the Statute Book. Music is her
hobby. She organises concert-parties for
charities, is a good pianist and can raise a
hearty laugh with her comedy sketches.
There was about one square-foot of floor
per pair of dancing feet at the Children’s
Hospital Ball. The golden laburnum that
had basked in the royal smile hung above,
and fresh greenery livened the supper-room.
The young things danced in fancy sets; the
frills of “Frivolity,” smart French soldiers,
red and white Pierrots and modern witches
with white wigs advanced and swung in the
lancers. Beads and sequins were the order
for those out of their second and third sea-
sons. Lady Campion looked charming in
oyster georgette, lightly beaded, with dia-
mond necklace and hair ornament. Mrs.
Iverr-Pearse and Mrs. Arthur Jacoby wore
hlack; Mrs. C. S. Nathan, beautifully beaded
rose-petal pink; Mrs. Silverstone, lilac and
moonbeam beaderies; Mrs. Cecil Mason, sky-
j“ue. frills; Mrs. Graves, cloth of silver;
Sylvia Diamond, crimson showered with gold
beads; pretty Flora Shaw, gold lace; Mrs.
Vetter, ivory crepe embroidered in bands of
rainbow-tinted beads; Maudie Mitchell,
beaded cherry; Helen Murray, almond green ;
and Ainslie Williams (Melbourne), leaf-
brown georgette.
Mrs. L. H. Gwynne and daughter Mildred
leave shortly for three months’ holidaying in
Melbourne and Sydney.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA.
Adelaide.
Brrr! It’s cold. Fur coat, cloth coat,
every kind of coat was a uniform at the
A.R.C.’s Birthday meeting. In many cases
gaiters were an extra ; with skirts up to the
knee and the thermometer down to its toes,
the gaiter fashion has its points. But what
a shock to the little that remains of Vic-
torianism when the hiatus between skirt and
gaiter is covered with a film of silk so near
flesh color that the knee looks nude! The
Bridges were there—she in a brown tailor-
made under a gold and brown coat —and with
them their daughter and the Gerald Arm-
strongs.
There were fur coats again at the Town
Hall frivol that raised funds for St. Barna-
bas s College. Bridge players huddled in
them all the evening and dancers slipped
thankfully into them ’tween whiles. A
committee HO strong sponsored the affair, with
Mrs. ,1. M. Dunn and Miss K. Lucas at
their head, and ran it so successfully that
there’s talk of. making it an annual. There
has been dancing under the auspices of the
old scholars of Walford House, too—the
setting the Windsor Cafe.
From England comes news of the engage-
ment of Audrey, younger of the Alfred
Wells’s daughters, to Capt. Oscar Chalker,
of the King’s Own Yorkshire Light Infantry.
The Adelaide Hospital Auxiliary has com-
pleted the linen stocks for the hospital, a
matter of equipping 20 wards and of supply-
ing about 60,000 articles. Pretty good, too,
for a two-and-a-half-years-old body. There
was tea at the kiosk, with Mrs. B. H. Morris
as hostess, by way of celebration, coupled
with a reminder to workers and the public
that, having been once round, they must-
cover the course again, to keep up with wear
and tear.
We progress. Not only in proportion to
our population have we more motors than
any other part of Australia, but the Council
is considering building us larger baths. The
traffic problem, by the way, may lead to the
removal of the Queen’s statue from the middle
of Victoria-square: in any case the tramway
poles at its corners are to go.
The yoicks and tally-ho season opened
with a run that finished at the kennels where
M.F.H. Paul Smith and his wife haled mem-
bers in to afternoon-tea. Hunting promises
to boom this winter. There was a big field,
with many new riders, and a crush of road-
followers.
The Art Gallery has bought one of John
Howell’s pictures, “An Old Wooden Bridge.”
Archibald Strong, who declared the show
open, has also been speaking for the Reper-
tory Theatre, his subject the stage of Shaks-
peare’s day and the evolution of the theatre.
TASMANIA.
Hobart.
A sharp attack of ’flu has laid our
Governor low. Miss O’Grady has got over
her attack and is about again.
Those who w-ere brave enough to turn up
at Elwick for the Winter meet of the T.R.C.
rather envied those whom ’flu kept tucked
up in bed. Very few women attended and
those who did presented an Eskimo-like
appearance. The president and Mrs. Tom
Lyons brewed tea for those who were hardy
enough to patronise the lawn.
One section of the community w-hich makes
no complaint about the snowy weather is
the Ski-ing Club, which sleeps in the summer
and comes to life with the first cold snap.
H. R. Hutchison, his daughter Nancy and
V. C. Smith 'lately skimmed up to the top
of Mt. Wellington on skis, a thing never
before achieved. Last year the club’s hut
at National Park was burnt down, and a new
one is just upon finished.
The Friends’ High School has sprouted a
new wing, and made a ceremony of the open-
ing. His Ex. had to be represented by
A.D.C. Strutt, who was deputed to open the
door of the new building. The dining-hall,
built with funds left to the school by the
late Dr. Hodgkin, bears over its big fireplace
a brass plate to commemorate the fact.
Headmaster and Mrs. Unwin, after the cere-
monious part of the function, came to the
rescue with tea.
The Adam and Eve at-home —no, it has
nothing to do with fig-leaves—for which the
Tasmanian Club opens its portals once in
every few years, was a very bright affair.
About 400 guests crowded into the alltoo-
small space which the building affords. The
rooms- were a blaze of flowers, hanging
baskets of ferns and trailing greenery, the
large reception-room being done in a scheme
of autumn tones, the supper-room all crimson,
white and gold. The corridor had been pre-
pared for dancing, and in the reception-room
Mrs. Sheppard’s orchestra made sweet noises.
Madame Lucy Atkins and Fred Heraud sang,
and Michailowska danced in the Eastern
style. The supper was—well, “Babylonian”
was the way one guest described it. His Ex.
was sufficiently recovered to put in an appear-
ance.
The Blind, Deaf and Dumb Institute’s 25th
birthday was celebrated with an at-home.
Miss Minnie Clarke, for 25 years head of
the Braille-writers’ Association, drove the
first peg into the ground on the site of the
new social hall for the use of the blind in-
mates and the Braille writers.
An interesting visitor who passed last
week through Sydney on her way to Tas-
mania was Mrs. Josephine Elizabeth Smith,
from Jersey. She is the youngest and only
remaining aunt of The Bulletin’s old con-
tributor Dr. Souter, of Adelaide, and only
a few years older than himself. Until recent
years Mrs. Smith plied a successful and
colorful brush, and was one of a family
of which all the cousins and the aunts, not
to mention the fathers and the uncles, were
in one or other of the artistic professions.
Coutts Michie is a cousin, and the late May
Ostlere was a sister. This is Mrs. Smith’s
first adventure beyond Europe, and she in-
tends to stay a year with us.


Amusements.
EMPIRE THEATRE,
Railway Square, adjoining Saunders’ Corner,
in Quay Street, Sydney.
Rufe Naylor has the honor to present
2/6 “SUNNY” 5/6
(By arrangement with Chas. Dillingham, N.Y.)
PLAYING TO CAPACITY NIGHTLY.
“SUNNY” commences at 7.45 sharp. Orchestral
items from 7.30.
Reserves at Theatre (M.A. 1000), Nicholson’s.
Paling’s, Hotel Australia, Usher’s, Carlton, Samuel’s.
Matinees Wednesday and Saturday at 2.
Theatre Box Office Hours: 9 to 3, 4 to 9.
£$ YD N E Y’S CHIEF THEATRES.
J. C. WILLIAMSON, LTD., present
HER MAJESTY’S: TIP TOES.
CRITERION: THE GHOST TRAIN.
ROYAL: MADAME POMPADOUR.
PALACE: CRADLE SNATCHERS.
PULLERS’ THEATRE, SYDNEY.
Twice Daily, 2.30 and S.
STIFFY AND MO.
RICKARDS’ TIVOLI THEATRES.
* * Lessees: Harry Rickards’ Tivoli Theatres, Ltd.
MELBOURNE and SYDNEY.
TWICE EVERY DAY—2.3O and 8.
CELEBRITY VAUDEVILLE.
The World’s Best.
joWN iTa L L,‘ SYDNEY.
IGNAZ FRIEDMAN,
“The Colossus of the Pianoforte.”
SERIES OF MEMORABLE CONCERTS,
commencing
SATURDAY NEXT, JUNE 11.
Box Plan at Nicholson’s
Direction E. J. Carroll.
I C. WILLIA MSO N, LTD.,
MELBOURNE ATTRACTIONS.
HIS MAJESTY’S : ROSE MARIE.
KING’S THEATRE:
SIX-C YLIN DER LOVE.
THEATRE ROYAL: THE RINGER.
pRINCESS THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
EVERY EVENING AT 8.
COMMENCING SATURDAY NEXT,
The Eminent Actres: MURIEL STARR
in Max Mercin and George M. Cohan’s Supremely
Thrilling and Gripping Play,
THE HOUSE OF GLASS.
Box Plan at Glen’s.
ATHEN.EUM T H E A T R E,
** .MELBOURNE.
Proprietor: Frank Talbot Pty., Ltd.
Lessee: E. J. Carroll.
EVERY EVENING AT 8.
The Uproariously Funny Comedy,
ELIZA COMES TO STAY.
Direction E. J. ' Carroll, by arrangement with
Richard White and Eric Edgley.
Plan at Allan’s.'
(VIEW BIJOI rUFA I BF. MELBOURNE
* " Twice Daily, 2.30 and 8.
GEORGE WARD REVUE CO.
Popular Prices. Plan Ceu. 3251.
|y|\,JESTIC THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
JOHN BARRYMORE in Warner’s Magnificent. Picture,
THE SEA. BEAST.
Adapted from the Popular Story “Moby Dick.”
Supported by the Screen’s latest Star,
DOLORES COSTELLO
An epic of the whaling days. An inspiration of youth.
Wonderful picture and wonderful acting.
Box Plan at Allan’s & Theatre. ’Phone 7076 & 7790.
juj O Y T’S D E LUXE THEATRE,
1 1 MELBOURNE.
WALLACE BEERY and RAYMOND HATTON in
WE’RE IN THE NAVY NOW.
ALSO
THE PERFECT SAP.
With BEN LYON and PAULINE STARKE.
Prices as usual.
Missing Friends.
17 LIZA ELIZABETH SHEEHY, deceased.
All persons claiming to be next of kin
of Eli/.a Elizabeth Sheeliy (formerly Eliza
Elizabeth Earley), late of Hobart, in Tas-
mania, widow, deceased, who died at Hobart
on the First day of February, 1923, are re-
quired to forward to.the undersigned particu-
lars of their claims before the 30th day of
June, 1927.
SIMMONS, WOLFHAGEN. SIMMONS
AND WALCH,
Solicitors,
SO Collins Street, Hobart. Tasmania.
DARRETT, GEORGE WILLIAM JOHN.
who left Barry Docks for Australia about
April, 1923, is inquired for by bis father.
Please forward information to A. S.
BARRETT, 53 Chapham Park Road, London,
5.W.4.
RUPTURE.
A FREE TR9AL.
If you rre troubled with the complaint, write us and I
we will send you our catalogue, fully describing our
PATENT AIR CUSHION APPLIANCE.
This appliance does away with all cumbersome
springs, giving a feeling of ease and comfort from the
first day’s use. It is the most scientific appliance yet
invented for this complaint. It will hold a rupture
firmly and comfortably under all conditions.
To prove what we state
WE OFFER TO SEND IT TO YOU
ON A FREE TRIAL.
If it is not satisfactory we do not expect you to keep
it, and the trial costs you nothing. It is suitable for
men, women and children, and the price is within
the reach of all.
ILLUSTRATED CATALOGUE
posted free anywhere.
THE WINSLOW CO.
MH Queen. Street, Melbourne» Vic.
è
''JOIN THE ARMY
OF SILENT WALKERS
and enjoy the comfort
of Crepe Rubber-soled
Footwear.
Great for rough roads
and easy
on tender feet
Wonder
wearing.
For the Man Who Has to
Stand On His Feet Aii Day,
We Strongly Recommend
This Footwear.
Write for catalogue B, showing a full
range of styles.
88113. — Black Boot,
good quality, leather-
lined, wide fitting,
crepe soles,
38/6
Post !/-
-f i
BSI
B9l2o.—Tan Working Boot, same
style as 81l 13, in strong elk leather,
wide fitting. Stout crepe soles, 36/6.
Post 1/ -
88118. — Fine Tan
Calf Walking Shoe,
medium fit, lighter
crepe soles.
37/6
Post I/-
BBIIS
B9115. — Riding Boot,
tanor black, with crepe
soles, clastic sides.
35/- Post 1/-
B4823. — Rid-
ing Boot, or-
dinary soles.
Black, 19/6;
Tan, 22/6.
Post 1/-
B9115
81380. Lady’s
Strap Shoe, nigger
brown, medium or
wide fit, light crepe
sole.
29/6
Post 1/ -
81380
81441. —Lady’s Strap Shoe, in black
Medium fit, crepe soles, 27/6.
Post 1/ -
Walther# Stevenson, Ltd.
395 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
YY/TIEREVER you are, I luring all tlie book
V stores of Sydney to your finger-tips.
In regard to your wants concerning new or
second-hand books write to FRANK BOND,
Box 4, Kensington P. 0,, Sydney.
FOR
ARCHITECTS, ARTISTS, DESIGNERS,
DRAUGHTSMEN & OFFICE USE.
MADE
Perfection
PITS K. RUBBER.
m
Vaseline
TRADE MARK
PETROLEUM JELLY
FOR SCALDS AND BURNS
Coyer affected area with
“Vaseline” Jelly spread on
linen or gauze. It’s pure and
safe to use on all minor cuts,
wounds, bruises, bumps.
Look for the Trade Mark “Vaseline”
It is your protection
Chesebrough Mfg. Co., Cons’d
New York London Montreal
Personal.
''"TAHKE. —Everything arranged, no need
worry. Write or see me, urgent, your
interest. McG.
Answers to Correspondents.
Xo notice (excevt of a hostile character) will he
taken of communications itisurjicienlly stc.moed.
Some and address must appear on the MS. Xo
liability is undertaken re contributions volun-
tarily submitted: and no MS. will be returned
unless stamps accompany.
C.R.A., Georgia R.. M.D.S., Tal J.:
Keached a second reading, and stumbled there....
Clio: Calls for heavy pruning.... Scribe: One has
a chance, but please remember that sense is as
necessary as sound.... M.L.F.: Painfully told; not
worth that space. .. .A.L.S.: Writing from Q., you
talk about a snow-clad winter crawling in from the
north and associate roasted chestnuts with it!. .. .
Edward H. (West Melb.) : Not enough sting in the
scorpion bite Jean C.: Something better than
that last line would give “hake Nannine” a pros-
pect E.M. (Mt. Magnet): Have it your own way:
Hope are the Wings for men to Fly—
From clay, the garment left to die.
They shed their garment for the blind,
A heritage for men to whine.
The tongue of men reveal the theme —
The grave the end of every scheme.
*. . .D.E. (Orange) : The pessimistic Digger verse
contains the germ of a good idea... .R.G.AA.: Aou
must have been blind to let those terrible 7th and
Bth lines stand. They spoil the whole verse. .. .
Z.V.W.: Sent to Mirror Tom C.M. Verse too
slight... .W.T.H.: “Praise” ends lamely F.W.D.:
Merely a statement that Doonev was fond of beer.
Millions are fond of beer.... J.F.A.: We think too
much of the country to publish that “Ode to Aus-
tralia” JT.E.C.: Pleasing, but ineffectual
W.W.R.: Copybook sentiments in a wilderness of
words T.W.11.: Sob verse regarding mother, and
a “crime-divine” rhyme.. . .M.J.O’R.: Your love
odyssey is a dull ramble in doggerel. ... H.11.R.:
It has pimples on its metre.... White L.: The bugle
note is ineffective in print.... E.C.D. : Well told;
but just fails to grip A.A.M.: As you repeat this
tender refrain eight times, you must think there is
something in it: —
She you loved has gone and died,
Fled her sweetness ! Well,
Plant her out with pansies soft;
They will grow and smell.
.....Jimmy P: The moonlight gallop is 0ff....
W.W.W.: The rough road jolts the ideas to death.
R.V.L.: It rather more than “just misses.”
The main fault is that words are thrown in just to
make rhyme. You must try to put meat on all
your hones.... Arnold G.: Not toad, hut not
good enough C.H.8.: Paragraphic value only.
.....J.E.P.: Can bestow no blessing on the
wedding of that old jest to verse Linton:
Can’t you say you. are glad to be alive in fewer
verses? J.D.C.: The joke takes a lot of reaching;
and then it’s not much of a joke... . W.T.A. : Mainly
interested in your description of Tahiti as “an
earthy paradise.”... .P.L.M.: “Had lie died
then, this story would not have been written.”
Pity D.P.R.: Such circumstances as the
haunted manor and the people who are either
Sir or Lord Something do not appeal to u 5....
Cam D.: No room between our pink sheets for “The
Sleeper”... .W.W.W.: Your parson preaches too
much Oscar M.: We’ve known many a son of a
gun more interesting than your son of a duke....
Jack C.: A faded woman ate fried fish, had a brawl
and died. It may be police news, but it’s not a
story M.McG.: Sob stuff... .H.F.L.: There’s a
story there, but it’s not set out well enough....
C.T.L.: Can’t convince ourselves that any character
is real... .R.J.0.: Doesn’t quite get there... .R.H.R.:
Jacoh’s-ladder idea can’t reach to the heaven of
publication P.1v.8.: The wedding-night discussion,
in verse, tinged our cheeks, with blushes. .. .A.D.M.:
The incident deserves treatment with light ridicule
rather than heavy wrath.... JAY. (Homebush) :
Heartily in accord with the character who towards
the end of the story said “Now I’m going to bed.”
....Cobber: May do; hut don’t weight matter with
so many adjectives. Every noun you use seems to
have one, sometimes more... .C.P.M.: Doesn’t carry
a yarn; might make a par... .Pomona: Not a story.
. .C.L.R.: The wages of that sort of sin is debt.
I E.R.M.: “On the Banks of the Dee” made us
! draw D —s from, our bank. .. .D.M.H.: Well told;
but the ugly theme doesn’t deserve the ti’eatment.
I ....Jess D.: Dad is no more amusing than the
pictures... .R.L.T.: It would be a shame to take
“The Joys of Childhood” out of the cradle....
C.R.P.: Tlie bitter story is evidently part of a
conflict with your wife. As a Sydney magistrate
said, home is the place for a husband and wife to
Ido their fighting... .J.M.W.: As you said it
I was a funny story, we prepared to laugh;
| hut its whole point, the fat man breaking his neck,
is no joke Gladys M.: Some day you may really
catch up to an idea.... Gillian: No desire to slate
you; hut “Fancies” are too slight.... Pat: Heaven
may bless you for rhyming “Creator” with “Nature.”
. ...W.F.K.: The old actor is deplorably longwinded.
.... Dora L.: Martha may do elsewhere. The other
is unconvincing... .Gil M.: “Please return.” No
sooner said than done, as you say four times in
your “story”.... Gordon S.: Wanders and loses its
way....1i.0.: Read the last, dreadful stanza again,
and you’ll find several reasons for rejection....
E.M.H.: A’our “Dawn” is a mere cloud of words....
S.M.A.: Always doubtful about verses “written out”
by one person and sent in by another. Any way,
that lot was written by Thomson, author of “The
Seasons.” If your friend said he wrote them he
must be in his third century Violet M. MeC.:
You fell down the mountain side when you tried to
rhyme “flows” and “willows.” The inflexion tripped
vou D.L.G.: A sample of your inimitable style:—
“Fool!” staccatoed his father, eyes parenthically
endowing mother with warning for secrecy, “Do what
I advise, or take the consequences.”
“My respected parent,” reciprocated Alan, husky,
hand semaphoring reasonable audition. “Afuch as I
have to thank you for birth, breeding, infinite educa-
tional advantages, financial indulgence, I cannot. The
love of Gladys rivets on my whole spiritual being.”
“Silence,” "his father vociferated, indomitably.
Then his mother’s voice, tenderness of it inflecting
every word, earthquaked into argument.
Aren’t you really one of the Chinese .footballers?
.... P. 1.: There . isn’t a skerrick of fresh grass left
in that paddock C.C.: Nothing wrong with
“License” except that we can’t find room for it....
S.T.: Words, words.
TO ARTISTIC (AND INARTISTIC)
CORRESPONDENTS.
C.A.S.: It would have been to the point six years
ag0....J.8.: Your horse’s tail is like a scythe....
A .J.G.: Drawing of caveman heaving rocks at his
missus declined. .. .H.D.: You call it “Something to
Go Crook About.” It is C.J.S. (Cunnamulla):
Lines lack decision... .K.L.: Two nightmares....
J.S.J.: The tamest for a twelvemonth.... O.J.C.
(Bogainildi) : Can understand what you’re driving at
hut dislike the way you go about it... .R.G.P.:
Leaping for the ferry-boat he fell into the water.
sketch fell into the wicker V.0.N.: Reminds us of
the competition pictures in which you pick out all
Jin objects that begin with a certain letter... .E.D.:
Bright patches here and there suggest that you can
do better.
THE INKY WAY.
Recently died, after a long and useful
career, Harrington's Photographic Jour-
nal, established in Sydney donkey’s years
ago to help amateurs. It goes out because
in these days all the average amateur does
is to press the button of a Yankee roll-film
camera, turn the films over to a photographic
firm, and take whatever may be produced
in the way of prints or enlargements.
“A Pal”: A large circle of friends will
be sorry to hear that “Bung” Wilmot, "Old
Boy” and “Prelector” in the cricket and
football columns of the Argus and Aus-
tralasian, has been ill in Boston, U.S.A.
He is now in London at the Argus office in
Fleet-street, and hopes to reach home bv
September.
“Old Sub.”: I looked up to see a very
large old Irishman with enormous hairy
bands, in which he held a copy of the rag
folded to disclose a sub-leader wherein
scathing things had been _ said _ about
the Scarlet Woman. “You're th’ sub-
iditor,” he barked, fixing me with little gim-
let eyes. “I am,” I said gallantly. "Ye
wrawt this dirrhty article!” he continued.
“I did not,” said I. “Dawnt you lie to me."
he said, breathing in my eye. “Ye admit
that you’re th’ sub-iditor, an’ that’s a suV
iditorial. Av coorsc ye wrawt it!”
“Strict Veg.”: Melbourne Argus, which
isn’t usually given to strong feeling, ha?
embarked on a crusade against the rising
tide of slang. The slogan having been
passed around that the old lady is thoroughly
aroused, the whole staff is keeping its eyes
skinned, and almost every column bristles
with inverted commas. For instance, the
paper speaks of the. “behaviour” of beam
wireless, to indicate that behavior isn't yet
a respectable word used in such a connec-
tion. “Up to date” also has to appear clad
in parenthesis and “key” industries arc
spoken of.
Fred Johns is at work on another edition of
his “Who’s Who in Australia,” a book that
has for many years past been invaluable to
the Inky Way of these parts. Lately, subscrip-
tions have been sought for an Australian
biographical work; Mr. Johns writes to say
that this must not be confounded with -us
book. “Those,” he writes, “who are
acquainted with the original ‘Who s Yho
in Australia,’ now entering its
edition, and with the methods employed in
its compilation and publication, know full
well that a place in mv book is not pur-
chasable, that subscriptions are not sought
in advance of its publication and that rho
careers of only really notable and prominent
people are recorded in it. ’
“Harold Hardupp” : The Beam broadcasted
the result of the English Derby to the Aus-
tralian press with the celerity which used
to be recorded with gratification by Sydney
papers when quick work was done in plion-
ing big race results from Randwick; the
space reserved in the morning dailies was
filled up and the editions were being printed
off a few moments later. It won’t be long
before photographs of the star performers in
such events will come almost as quickly as
the results. The wiring of the photographs
of criminals has already become a common-
place in America; and the Sydney Sun the
other day printed photographs of the Missis-
sippi floods telephoted to San Francisco m
time to catch the mail there. This is becom-
ing a very small earth.
“The Listening-Insect”: Cable as well ns
beam had its sleeves rolled up for the Eng-
lish Derby. Just “0 seconds after Call Bay
passed the post both firms in Melbourne
were at the ’phone ringing up the news-
papers. The Eastern Extension Co.’s per-
formance was the more remarkable, seeing
that the message had to he relayed through
many stations. Wireless competition lias
shaken it up so much that it was able to
reduce its record of last year by 120 seconds.
“Coot”; The other day the Melbourne
Morning Post published a preposterous
story about the Age having been acquired
bv the Herald Proprietary for a trifle m
£BOO 000. When it is considered that the
West Australian (Perth) recently changed
bands for £650,000, the yarn was obviously
absurd, but the Age rolled up its sleeves to
rebut it in a fashion reminiscent of David
Svme at his best. Extract:
Without the slightest attempt at verification, the
paper we have named prostitutes journalism by
publishing the lying rumors set out mats column-
yesterday. This is stunt journalism of the meanest
and most despicable character. Only, apparently,
tactics of this kind are certain papers able to avo'
the Nemesis of liquidation. Only by desperate lyn.-
are they able to secure a temporary respite from
dissolution.
But the Morning Post still had a kick lott
in it. It reprinted the Age’s remark that
“only bv desperate lying are certain papers
able'to secure a temporary respite from dis-
solution,” and above this statement it P" 1
lislied a photo, of a sign over a .submhan
newsagent’s: “The Age, 156.068 daily. Th u
ancient legend, which stares at the 1 < ■ •
bv from scores of shops, lias long been „
sidered by those in the know to be- vun,
somewhat optimistic.
TOOLS OF TRADE
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“A rhyming dictionary and a thesaurus; are in-
dispensable to the minor poet of our times.”
The spine of Pegasus has sagged,
The price of Pegasus is down,
And he is but a lowly prad
Let out for hire to earn a crown.
No more the bard lets glide his pen
In inspiration's ecstasy,
For aught beyond his instant ken
Comes from a Rhyming Dictionary.
He seeks the jewelled phrase no more,
He cares not for Pierian fonts;
From Roget’s thesauristic store
lie takes exactly what he wants.
And serves it up with timeworn themes
To earn his beef and porter brown.
Alas! To-day in truth it seems
The price of Pegasus is down!
MX.
RAWHAI.


of Australasia Limited.
Capital Paid up£4,000,000
Total Assets; 1916 1£14.575.697
1927
All classes of banking business conducted at
320 branches and 163 agencies in Australia
The Bank provides a complete service to its
customers and connections. This includes
Current Accounts. Fixed Deposits, Overdrafts,
Discounts, Collections, Drafts payable in Aus-
tralia or abroad, Travellers’ and Merchants’
Letters of Credit, Telegraphic Transfers.
ARRANGEMENTS FOR CONDUCTINO
Foreign Banking Business
have been greatly extended and a world-wide
service is available through the Bank’s offices
in London and Agents in every important city.
j,42.9Q9. 726
*
wm
THE * MASTER. • VALVE
sw'WITH THE!
If WONDERFUL!
a *».m i
Holds 50^
9
I ) (Hh® s
ot&Wp Safety^
More Ink
Make Onoto" your Pen—lt is a great time»
saver and the best writing instrument it is
possible to obtain, and the fact that it
holds 50 per cent, more ink than any
other self-filling pen has gained for Onoto,
the Pen, the first place.
THOMAS DE LA RUE & CO. LTD.
110 Bunhill Row, London, E.C. 1.
| Representatives: Norman Baker & Longhurst
50 York Street, Sydney.
ONOTO INK—Best for all Pens.
authority's
APPROVAL !
The popularity of Ancho-
vette is due to its delicious
flavour—which is beyond
compare. It has a very high
food value, and is perfectly
pure. Every member of the
family enjoys Anchovette,
and never tires of it.
Keep Anchovette on hand for
Lunch, Tea , Suppers or Picnics
ORDER FROM YOUR GROCER TO-DAY
V,
£
eclcs
Commonwealth Loan
Reasons why this Loan appeals to both small and large
investors:—
Because as small a sum as £lO, or any larger amount (in
even sums of £10) can be put into the Loan.
Because the interest is 5 4 per cent., and is FREL OL
STATE INCOME TAX.
Because you have the choice of earning this excellent rate
for either 6, 11 or 1 6 years, as you may desire.
Because you can readily sell your investment on the Stock
Exchange.
Because there is nothing safer than Commonwealth
Securities.
Because you can draw your interest half-yearly, and with-
out any delay or trouble.
Because you need pay only 10 per cent, of your invest-
ment now, and can pay the balance at any time up to July 1.
All information and assistance readily available from
BANKS, INCLUDING SAVINGS BANKS,
MONEY-ORDER POST-OFFICES, AND
MEMBERS OF STOCK EXCHANGES.
Holders of stock and bonds maturing on May 31, 1927, are
also invited to convert their holdings into the present Loan.
CLOSING DATE, JUNE 18, 1927.
EARLE PAGE, Treasurer.
Commonwealth Treasury, May, 192 7.
If any illustration in “THE BULLETIN” takes your fancy, write
to the MANAGER, who will quote you price for the original.
At £7/7/-
New and exclusive
All Wool Worsteds
in Sac Suits to measure
57
fn
i
'm
Si
J
Alt wool Worsteds of
such quality as this
are undoubtedly
among the most
durable of suitings,
and when tailored in
the Peapes manner
their service is in-
creased by the good
quality linings, and
scrupulous workman-
ship applied to them.
Colourings include many plain shades of Blue, Grey, Fawn
and Broum, as well as innumerable fancy weaves of inter-
mingled colours which create new tones of the same shades.
Patterns and simple self-measurement form
promptly on request
PEAPES PAY POSTAGE
PEAPES
Men’s and Boys’ Outfitters
George Street (opp. Hunter St.), Sydney
Peapes ’ P.P.P. Pipes 8/6, 9/6 and 12/6


Hi
uM
ft
*
m*
muM
a
a
:IF
£
£
$
>
/•>
a
The Rudolph Wurlitzer M’f’g
Co., of New York, makers of
the famous “Wurlitzer” Orches-
tral Organs, are the builders of
the “Wurlitzer” Player Piano,
an instrument of matchless
tonal beauty and mechanical
construction, that ensures
LASTING satisfactory perform-
ance.
Easy Terms may be arranged
with “Wurlitzer” Agents.
PRINCIPAL “WURLITZER” AGENTS.
NEW SOUTH WALES:
Royal Player Piano Co.. 21 Park Street,
Sydney; M. Light & Sons, Ltd., Newcastle
and Cessnock; Jas. Loneragan, Ltd., Gul-
gong; The Australian Stores, Yass.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA:
The Australasian Implement and House
Furnishing Co., Adelaide.
VICTORIA:
Myers Emporium, Ltd., Melbourne.
WEST AUSTRALIA:
Musgroves, Ltd., Murray Street, Perth.
TASMANIA:
Findlay’s Pty.; Ltd., Apollo House, 63-65
George Street, Launceston.
Factory Representatives for Australasia;
PARKER, BLAU & Co., Ltd.,
8 O’CONNELL STREET, SYDNEY;
308 FLINDERS ST., MELBOURNE.
SUNDRY SHOWS.
SYDNEY SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Hek Majesty’s “Tip Toes”
Criterion “The Ghost Train”
Royal “Madame Pompadour”
Palace "Cradle Snatchers”
Empire “Sunny'*
Fullers’ Vaudeville
Tivoli ... Vaudeville
Town Hall Ignaz Friedman
MELBOURNE SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
His Majesty’s , “Rose Marie”
King’s “Six-Cylinder Love”
Royal “The Ringer”
Princess “The House of Glass”
Athen.eum “Eliza Comes to Stay”
Tivoli Vaudeville
Bijou Vaudeville
Majestic Moving Pictures
Hoyt’s Moving Pictures
—•-»• —-
Beppie de Vries, with the aid of pleasing
music, bright settings, a capable company
and a capital plot, made an outstand-
ing success with “Madame Pompadour”
at the Theatre Royal (Sydney) on Satur-
day ; in less than no time the audience had
taken the dainty red-tressed Dutch lady to
its heart. The play opens with a bright
carnival medley in the sort of cavernous
Parisian wine cellar where there is always
(on the stage, anyway) a vagabond poet.
King Louis XV. having departed for four
days’ hunting, his spectacular mistress,
Madame Pompadour, seizes the opportunity
to invade the den, with her confidential maid,
in search of adventure. She finds it in the
person of Rene, the Comte d’Estrades, a
country gentleman Avho has come to town
for a carnival-time spree as a tonic after
a year of happy matrimony. The intrusion
of Maurepas, Minister of Police, who wants
evidence against Madame for his own black-
mailing purposes, interferes with Avarm
developments; but Pompadour adroitly turns
the situation with an accusation against
Maurepas of laxness in duty—she has come
to this place to look into the seditious verses
the poet Calicot has been writing about her.
In the upshot, Calicot is given a chance to
redeem himself by writing a play for the
Pompadour’s players Avithin a given time,
his fate being merely a screen for the en-
listment of Rene in the Pompadour’s guards
of the household, where he is promptly put
“PYGMALION,” AT QUEEN’S HALL,
MELBOURNE.
Mollie Locke as Eliza Doolittle, who speaks
the language of flower-girls.
to watch over the lady’s own apartments.
Complications arrive with the appearance of
Rene’s wife, Madeleine, who proves to be
Pompadour’s sister, in search of her missing
husband, and the sudden return of the King,
to whom the duped Maurepas exposes Cali-
cot as the Pompadour’s lover; but the situ-
ation works out by curtain fall to the
happiness of everybody except the scheming
Police Minister.
* * '-i: *
Frederick Lonsdale’s assistance to Harry
Graham in adapting the “book’\ doubtless
accounts for the dialogue being a cut above
that usually encountered in musical comedy.
Graham wrote the lyrics himself and Leo
Fall has supplied some swinging music.
The part of Rene falls to Frank Webster, a
robust young man Avitli a pleasing tenor on
the light side and a capacity to be easy and
loverlike. Arthur Stigant, as the poet Cali-
cot. makes the most of comedy a bit out
of the vaudeville type, and Leslie Holland is
the same humorously helpless villain he has
been in numberless musical comedies;
Vera Spaull brightly seizes her oppor-
tunities as Mariette, maid to Madame
Pompadour. Avho falls in We with Cali-
cot; P. Cory gives weight and a, fair
measure of dignity to Louis XV., and Noel
Dainton, as Boucher the Court Painter,
never misses a telling point. Quaint dress-
ing in a chorus which is kept continually
on the run in the first act, and has some
spectacular work later on, gives a colorful
background to the principals. The manage-
ment has struck a play which should prove
almost as rich a goldmine as “Rose Marie.”
* * * si:
The Playbox Theatre, in Rowc-street,
Sydney, has stolen a march upon the import-
ing managers with “Juno and the Paycock,”
by Sean O’Casey, which ran for a 12-month
in London. The scene is Ireland in the
dreadful times of 1922, and humor, hate,
bigotry, mother-love, religion, misery, drunk-
enness, heroism and meanness make up the
composite production. A group of tenement
dwellers learn that Jack Boyle, a drunken
and loafing father, has been left a legacy.
.Naturally the household runs into debt while
waiting for the arrival of the money. Then
it turns out that the legacy is mere moon-
shine, and the play ends with the owners of
the furniture clearing out every stick in
the mean little home, with father and his
boon companion helplessly drunk, the
daughter ruined and the son shot as a spy.
Yet the heroic Juno sacrifices herself all
through the tragedy, and bears in her
mother-heart all the heavy hurts that cannot
crush her down. This figure, feelingly por-
trayed by the art of Florence Whyte, stands
out pure and undefiled among the muck.
In a remarkable collection of Irish types
mention may be made of Duncan Mac-
Dougall who,, however, over-acted the feck-
less father’s intoxication, Kathleen Griffin,
tvt a ch eer f u l gossip, Jack McFadyen and
Nat Macdonald. The eerie atmosphere of
the play was admirable. It will be staged
every Wednesday evening for those who
want to relish a genuine theatre sensation.
Having no spare house for “The Green
Hat, the J.C.W. firm is giving Sydney an
opportunity of seeing Michael Arlen’s play
at eight matinees at Her Majesty’s Theatre,
commencing this (Thursday) afternoon. But
they won t be quite consecutive; “Tip Toes,”
w !' i I ch is continuing its run at that theatre,
will still be seen on Wednesday and Satur-
day afternoons. “The Sheik,” whose tardi-
ness has enabled Carter the Great to extend
his season for a week, will bring the desert
foSi- James’s Theatre on Saturday. With
ilie Student Prince” announced as a new
arrival in July, “Sunny’s” weeks are num-
bered at the Empire Theatre. Thrilled audi-
ences nightly watch the rush of “The Ghost
rail C, across the stage at the Criterion;
and Cradle Snatchers” continues its fell
work of bassinette burglary at the Palace.
I lie business of “Getting Gertie’s Garter” is
keeping the Grand Opera House a cheerful
place.
3: * sic
This afternoon (Thursday) the Shaks-
pcarean Society and Arthur Greenaway make
their splash with “A Midsummer Night’s
Dream’ at the Conservatorium (Sydney),
flip performance will be continued tliis ami
to-morrow night:.
A half-measure of change has been intro-
duced m Sydney Tivoli by the dovetailing of
several turns after the manner of revue.
I he management might advantageously go a
step further and abolish altogether, except
for the interval, the heavy curtain drop with
its ensuing dull waste of time. The old
vaudeville method is doomed. The humorous
Dick Henderson remains the show’s bright
light; but sparkling additions include the
Maryland Maids, a feminine jazz band and
Herbert Brownie, who was with Marie Burke
before Warde Morgan was able to return
to his stage activities. He has a voice that
is. not entirely spoiled by his obvious con-
sciousness of its possession. Some quite re-
markable somersaulting is provided by a
bunch of. small girls, “the Hyman Wonders” ;
and Elsie Bower, wdio appears with Billy
Rutherford, is glowingly spoken of by femi-
nine members of the audience as “a trick.”
The rollicking Stiffy and Mo appear this
week at Sydney Fuller’s in a sprightly revue
entitled “Oh Auntie.” As returned soldiers
they link up again in peace with their
war-time officers as orderlies and land them-
selves and everyone else in the vicinity in
a series of laughable situations. Scattered
throughout the revue are a number of enter-
taining vaudeville acts, of wdiich those by
Hal Cooper, the Statler Sisters, the Radio
Six and the Charleston Symplionv Band
stand out.
The fatuous silliness of Harry Langdon
is in place in a farce entitled “Long Pants,”
shown at the Strand and Hoyt’s. On his
w r edding day he becomes infatuated with a
haughty girl of the underworld, and he meets
adventures startling and grotesque. When,
however, he finds two she-devils clawing
each other in an all-in combat, this dis-
illusioned youth flees in disgust and creeps
home to mother and his patiently waiting
bride. At any rate the moral is sound.
Opening with a striking theme of jealousy,
“The Gay Deceiver” soon fades away. Lew
Cody appears as “Othello” on the Parisian
stage; but he merely plays the part of a
husband and father, and all the interest,
such as it is, is devoted to the theme of
parent-love. All that this picture presents
is the stupidity of a middle-aged man aping
the emotions that belong to youth. It, too, is
to be seen at Hoyt’s and the Strand.
“GETTING GERTIE’S GARTER ” AT
SYDNEY GRAND OPERA HOUSE.
Frank Neil surprises Butler Field with a
comic Jack-in-the-box effect.
A strong show :
Mrs. Hilda Rix Nicholas is giving an exhibition
at the Hordern Gallery. Her work is vigorous, vital,
free from affectations. With a well-trained hand,
a sound knowledge of form and color, and a strength
unusual in a woman artist, Mrs. Rix Nicholas sees
her picture and sets it out frankly. Her figure work
—displayed in oils and in charcoal and colored
chalk—is best; in landscape the artist fails some-
times to catch the full subtleties of Australian
atmosphere.
* * * *
Call Cinderella Eliza and put her in slab
boots, a shapeless frock and a straw hat
with elastic under the chin; roll the fairy
godmother and the prince into one and label
the compound the Honorable Sandy Verrall,
owner of a bachelor flat in London, and
you have “Eliza Comes to Stay.” Judging
by the enthusiasm at Melbourne Athenmum
on Saturday grown-up theatregoers like bed-
time stories too. Producer Joseph Cunning-
ham dealt, more justly with the piece than
with any of his previous exhibits —and he
was helped therein by the unexpected appro-
priateness of almost every member of his
cast. As Eliza Cinderella, Zillah Bateman
showed a variety of manners, as well as
modes, and a capacity for light sentiment
and simple merrymaking hitherto unsus-
pected by this Page. She belongs to the
school of Renee Kelly. The sedate and
forceful Henrietta Cavendish, as a philoso-
phical old lady, is a graduate, on the other
hand, of the university that produced Marion
Lord, of “The Best People.” Her quiet per-
formance was a rest-cure in a world of
whirling farce. Frank Bradley purveyed
very well the role of gentlemanly ass, and
Campbell Copelin dressed the fairy prince in
a well-cut suit, an ingratiating smile and
considerable vigor of address.
The revival or resurrection of “Gum-tree
Gully, at Melbourne Palace, brings Vivian
Edwards back in the congenial role of villain
with his riding-boots shining more wickedly
than ever; and Kate Howarde, the author,
appears herself in a new, fast-moving and
not unamusing sketch entitled “The Tale of
the Turf.” The kookaburra has also resumed
his box-seat on the back fence of the Warner
homestead, and his unshaken gravity while
Walter Cornock commits his most provo-
cative pun suggests that the bird’s sense of
humor is grossly over-rated.
The Little Art Co. trod on each other’s
corns in a painstaking attempt to get “Pyg-
malion” across the Queen's Hall footlights
on Saturday in Melbourne. Mollie Locke, as
Eliza, the flower-girl who learned to swear
like a duchess, was the only member who
succeeded. The rest allowed themselves to
be carried along on the relentless stream of
Shavian wit like so many passengers on a
revolving staircase. Beresford Fowler, as
the brilliant, arrogant, dominating and devas-
tating Henry Higgins, was as satisfying a
spectacle as a kitten trying to card wool.
Compared with the women, most of the males
of the Little Art Co. are frightful duds.
They seem to be wondering half the time, not
without justification, if they aren't making
asses of themselves.
To-morrow night Miss Starr will b
“Cornered” for the last time at Melbourne
Princess, and on Saturday at the matinee
she will move into “The House of Glass."
described as a gripping drama of inter-
national reputation, mainly by the prolific
and frequently entertaining George M. Cohan.
“Rose Marie,” at His Majesty’s, is looking
forward confidently to her second birthday,
though part of the interim is likely to be
spent in travelling. Moscovitch continues in
“The Ringer” at the Royal with fair apprecia-
tion from the public. “Six-Cylinder Love” is
easily the most engaging comedy in town, but
the King’s never was a popular showkouse.
Hard seats and draughts are sometimes said
to be the reason. Playgoers are particular
people in some directions.
Dame Nellie Melba, G.8.E., had the seat
of honor on Friday night at the Assembly
Hall, at a concert of Fritz Hart’s works,
two choral numbers of which, “Natural
Magic” and “The Gill.v of Christ,” had a
first public hearing. The composer breaks
considerable fresh ground in these composi-
tions. There were many difficult bits of
vocalism for the choristers to negotiate, but
the Melba Conservatorium Ladies’ Choir
with Ida Scott at the keyboard was quite
equal to the ordeal. The 13 sets of verses
that form “The Gilly of Christ,” by Seosmah
MacCathmhaoil (Joseph Campbell), are
arranged for three soloists. Lilian Stott,
Millie McCormack and Rita Coonan were
the chosen to interpret the mystically Celtic
music, and the trio did it very effectively.
Margot Maegibbon tucked her fiddle under
her chin between the two numbers and gave
with a fine rhythm and singing tone Fritz
Hart’s paraphrase for the violin of three
Bach preludes.
* * * *
Melbourne Bijou just at present is full of
echoes. Elton Black is a reverberation of
Harry Lauder, and a mild one, too; some-
thing like Fantasi, the human frog, has
been seen before; and Lily Burnand, a
favorite of bygone days, is a recollection of
herself —a robust and pleasant one, how-
ever. Arthur Slater whistles for applause
and gets it, too; and the Carthy Bros., come-
dians, describe themselves as “just a couple
of pommies.” In some directions the immi-
gration laws need tightening up.
Senator Guthrie, who has dedicated him-
self to the stern task of destroying the Holly-
wood octopus, commenced his campaign in
Melbourne the other evening by giving a
large party at the Playhouse, dress, accord-
ing to the invitation, being optional, though
the weather made a certain amount com-
“SIX-CYLINDER LOVE,” AT
MELBOURNE KING’S.
Gilbert Stirling (Richard Taber ) jailing for
the honeyed words of William Donroy
(John Fernside), a super-fluent auto-
mobile salesman.
pulsory. “Ypres,” the British war film, was
the subject matter. It was certainly not pro-
duced by Brigadier-General Bowdler. No-
thing is left out. It is full of blood, mud
and tragic futility. It is as long and mono-
tonous as the War itself, though the incident
of the tanks is intensely eerie, like a mad
and horrible Wellsian hallucination. The
attempt to dramatise or melodramatise the
confused struggle for the famous salient is
a failure. To see the battle whole is beyond
the capacity of the historian of to-day.
(Continued on Page 5//.)


Big—Roomy—Comfortable
People are accustomed to think of
Dodge Brothers Motor Car m terms
of dependability and value. For that
reason its really exceptional size is not
always fully appreciated.
Yet in this respect it stands alone in
its price class, far above its field.
With a 1 16-inch wheelbase, ample
leg room and seats of exceptional
width and depth, the car is big enough
and roomy enough for thorough com-
fort. Yet it is compact enough for
convenient parking.
Standard Touring - £299
Coupe £395
Sedan - - ~ - - - - £4lO
Five Disc Wheels and Balloon Tyres.
Canada Cycle & Motor Co. (Victoria) Pty., Ltd., Melbourne.
Austral Motors, Limited, Brisbane—Townsville.
The Standardised Motors, Ltd., Sydney.
Way mouth Motor Co., Ltd., Adelaide.
Winterbottom Motor Co., Ltd., Perth.
□□dee* Brothers
MOTOR CARS
/0/.-7.


The “WILD CAT” MONTHLY for June
NOW ON SALE, PRICE 2/-
CONTAINS REVIEWS OF
AERATED BREAD CO., LTD.
ANTHONY HORDERN & SONS
ARTHUR RICKARD & CO.
EXTENDED, LTD.
BAGOT’S EXECUTOR AND
TRUSTEE CO., LTD.
THE BANK OF ADELAIDE
THE BANK OF AUSTRALASIA.
BANKERS & TRADERS INSUR-
ANCE CO., LTD.
BON MARCHE, LTD.
BURNS, PIIILP & 00., LTD.
CHARLES BIRKS & CO., LTD.
THE COLONIAL SUGAR REFIN-
ING CO., LTD.
DENTAL & MEDICAL SUPPLY
CO., LTD.
DOMARA RIVER PLANTATIONS
DUDLEY & DWYER, LTD.
THE ENGLISH ELECTRIC CO.
OF AUSTRALIA, LTD.
EQUITABLE BUILDING SOCIETY
FINNEY, ISLES & CO., LTD.
GIBSON & HOWES, LTD.
LUKE MURAS, LTD.
MOTOR FINANCE, LTD.
THE NEW ZEALAND FARMERS'
FERTILIZER CO., LTD.
THE NORTH COTE BRICK GO.
PROVIDENT LIFE ASSURANCE
CO., LTD.
TOWNSVILLE GAS AND COKE
CO., LTD.
WASHINGTON H. SOUL, PATTIN-
SON & CO., LTD.
WEST’S, LTD.
TIIE WICKHAM & BULLOCK
ISLAND COAL CO., LTD.
YOU NG H USB AND, LTD,
Latest Share Market Prices and Returns to Investors. Tin Mining Reports.
NO INVESTOR, BIG OR LITTLE, CAN AFFORD TO MISS THIS ISSUE -
- 2L
The type of jazz comedy imported by
Olsen and Johnson threatens to become a
permanent guest at the dinner-table of Aus-
tralian vaudeville. Its latest exponent is
Herb Williams, who ties the attention in
knots at Melbourne Tivoli in an excited act
which makes the sober humor of Alexander
Carr, who follows, look as if it were standing
still. Carr brings to a trivial sketch entitled
"Tobblitzky” a • sound tragical picture of a
Jewish patriarch that would not be out of
place in a Shakspearean drama.
Melbourne Majestic specialises in pictur-
isatious of well-known novels. “One In-
creasing Purpose” is a film which can at
present be compared with A. S. M. Hutchin-
son’s worst seller, and next week is promised
“The Sea Beast,” derived from Melville’s
tremendous epic of the whale, “Moby Dick.”
Iloyt’s harmless pastimes this week include
"The Perfect Sap,” a social comedy, and a
cheerful farce, “We’re in the Navy Now.”
The institution named is not the R.A.N.
The latest additions to the H. Septimus
Power stud are stabled at the Athenaeum,
Melbourne. This delineator of assorted
equines is anathema to some artists hut a
source of inexhaustible delight to the pic-
torially inclined, lie cunningly mixes just
enough of genuine painting with a robust
sense of the picturesque to make a satisfying
dish. Some of his horses might fail to pass
a vet. and the atmosphere they breathe might
be condemned by a board of impressionist
painters, but only a corpse would be proof
against their emotional appeal. The great-
bellied draughthorses with their gigantic,
solemn heads and palatial hindquarters, the
military chargers with their “kingly, flashing
coats” and the grave dogs make an exhilarat-
ing pageant which marches across the Avails
to the tune of a brass band of resounding
colors. The Power palette always blares,
but the largeness of the artist’s conceptions,
the vivacity of his smallest brushstroke and
the warmth of his feelings for the lower
orders of creation make criticism a trifle
diffident -about peering into holes and corners.
Melbourne art shows :
Pleasant weather continues to dog Will Ashton
round the world, and in his show of oils at the Fine
Art Galleries, Melbourne, he has found more of it
ill Italy and France than falls to the lot of other
travellers. His manner remains unvaried. He makes
no homicidal attack oil .Nature, chopping her into
non-existent cubes and pyramids with a Futurist
meat-axe; but where she has provided a geometrical
arrangement of her own he taxes it and makes of it
a sort of mathematical poetry. His tones are usually
just right and his color pattern as gay as a drinking-
chorus. Nobody paints Paris better, not even the
Parisians.
Almost as many women as men are to be found in
tlie new bar at Menzies’ Hotel, Melbourne, just at
present. The attraction is a new cocktail mixed by
Napier Waller, the Digger-artist who lost his right
arm in the war and learnt to paint even better with
his left. His latest work is a vast mural painting
of five panels, which shows Greek men and women,
after the Egyptian fresco convention, gathering the
ha’ est, building oast houses, bringing in the grapes,
suckling babies and otherwise indulging in rural pas-
times. Bullocks are hauling logs and bulls are
straining in the middle-distance. In the background
slumbers an enchanted landscape beneath a clear blue
sky, barred by peaceful clouds. The rich, warm
coloring suffusing all makes the contents of the
bottles on the shelves look positively drab.
“Tlie Green Hat,” at the Adelaide Royal,
is liable to make one feel a little sorry that
Judith Anderson should have made her first
professional appearance in her home town in
a play with a theme so sordid and char-
acters so unnatural. No doubt there is
clever acting and some bright touches of
originality—such as when a nursing-sister
appears in high-heeled satin shoes and the
dying and delirious heroine jumps out of bed
and rushes straight upon the stage in silk
stockings aud smart footwear —but seven
nights are likely to exhaust the attractions
of Michael Arlen’s play. At the Prince of
Wales the revival of “The Christian” pro-
vokes the reflection that bobbed hair has re-
moved at least one temptation from the path
of good men. Hilda Dorrington, as Glory
Quayle, and George Cross, as John Storm,
are reasonably convincing personalities, and
Austen Milroy nightly rouses applause for
bis denunciation of evil. The Majestic has a
Irump card in Arthur Buckley, and the de-
mand for horoscopes continues brisk. “The
Eccentric Ethiopian,” Bert Chadwick, makes
a hit with “He’s in the Graveyard Now,”
and Gayle Wyer’s revue company scores in
its latest effort, “The Blue Rose.” Milton
Sills is a reckless young Balkan attache
at West’s, “Beau Geste” lends itself admir-
ably to screen-production' at the York (Avhere
also the singing of the Harmonious Four
is attractive), Wondergraph has “The Temp-
tress” and at the Grand Tom Mix fills “The
Canyon of Light” with more of his incred-
ible stunts —this time he is a despatch-rider
in France.
Poverty
Point
“A.8.W.”: Hamilton Deane, producer of
“Dracula” at the Little Theatre, London,
received this bouquet from a female play-
goer :
Will you kindly send me another ticket for a
stall? I purchased one for last night, but was so
thrilled that I fainted, and had to be taken home
in a taxi. I am so eager to see the play right
through.
What an advt.! And what a showman!
“Flaming Youth”: When Augustus Lew-
combe, who had set out on his lirst engage-
ment with high hopes, was handed his
railway-ticket to Sydney, he mentioned that
he had received no salary. The manager replied
in a reproachful strain: “You, sir, knowing
my difficulties, ask for 'money! Have I not
paid your fare back to Sydney? Let me
tell you, sir, hundreds of better actors than
you have had to walk back.” Augustus,
who is now doing well, tells me that the
speech was so magnificently spoken that
when he “lends” the veteran a few bob he
has the feeling that his debt of gratitude is still
undischarged. The old man thinks so, too.
“L can always depend on my young friend
to let me have a few shillings,” he confided
to me one day. “And so he ought, too!
When he was with my company, sir—ray
own company—l treated him as I would a
prince.”
“Rose Pink”: Dead in London, at 72,
Joseph Darker, the doyen of English scenic
artists. During his long career he worked
with every manager of note, and in later
days his scenes were a feature of Drury-
lane productions and those of Oscar Asclie
at His Majesty’s. Playgoers in Australia are
well acquainted with his art; the Harker
scenic splendors of “Kismet,” “Chu Chin
Chow” and “Cairo” will long be remembered.
Four sons are carrying on.
“Curtain-Raiser”: Thinking better of its
proposal to import the same choir of prin-
cipals for its next opera season, the Firm
has wisely decided to bring out Dal Monte,
Gran forte, Azzolini and Scavizzi, with six
new voices. The public, however, will have
to wait till March, 1928, for the opening
event, so that the songbirds may return to
Europe for the next winter season. All will
be compatriots of Mussolini, even those
required to warble Wagnerian strains.
“Early Turn” : The Williamsons show good
judgment when selecting vaudevillains from
their Tivoli circuit to appear in musical
comedy. Marie Burke, who came to Aus-
tralia as one of the partners in a singing
turn (Burke and Klein), was one “find.”
Athol Tier was well suited in “Leave It to
Jane”; and Mo had an uproarious reception
when he appeared as a “legit.” in “Give and
Take.” Olsen and Johnson are now scoring-
in “Till Toes” after a long Tivoli engagement,
ft’s a costly business to engage established
music-hall artists for theatre productions in
England, hut such people as George Robey
and Billy Merson can generally be relied on
to justify the addition of their £250 or £3OO
per week to the pay-roll. Same here.
“Caul Boy”: It looks as if the Fullers
will steal a grand-opera march on J.C.W.
A fortnight ago the Firm announced that
it could not let its avalanche of alien song-
loose till 1928. A few minutes later, so to
speak, John Fuller was rushing off to Italy
to obtain a company composed entirely of
Fascists. There are inexpensive stock com-
panies in Mussolini’s land that can be bought
almost as promptly as a pound of butter.
The Fullers have already made good money
out of cheap grand opera. During the war
they brought the Gonsalez crowd, who
arrived with a wonderful collection of paper
scenery and not a word of English among
them. Cloth scenery was rushed together to
replace the paper, which Australian laws
prohibit, but the linguistic difficulties seemed
insurmountable. Chaos reigned until their
employers found a clerk in the office with
a knowledge of Italian. By the end of the
successful tour, Gonsalez, the leader, had a
working knowledge of English. When asked
what he would drink, he could always answer
“l'oeo da whisk’!”
“I. Phelps" : In her reference to the open-
ing of the new Carlton Theatre, London.
‘‘St. John’s Wood” (B. 2/6/’27) omitted
to mention the name of John Kirby, another
Australian who contributed to the success
of “Lady Luck.” John’s plumpness tends
to make any part he assumes look four, sizes
larger than normal; but there is a certain
amount of natural bonhomie, commercially
realisable on the London stage, which helps
his impersonation of Ezra Pettijolm. lie
has another asset, superb self-confidence,
which carries him into places where Irvings
might fear to busk.
“Caesar’s Ghost”: Wirths’ may be a tent
show when the circus comes back to Sydney
next Easter; the Hippodrome is to become a
picture theatre. The remodelling of the Hip-
podrome is a Union Theatres venture; the
same combination is building the new picture-
house in Market-street, where the Evening
News office used to be. Hoyt’s is also getting
a big new home near the corner of George
and Bathurst streets. If more Australian
money went into the making of pictures, and
less into the housing of them, this country
would be better off.
“M.G.S.”: The prevalence of babies or
incipient babies on'the stage prompts me
to remark that neither iEschylus nor Shak-
speare made his heroines bury their blush-
ing faces in their husband’s waistcoats while
they whisper the glad tidings of approaching
maternity. This is essentially a modern
motive. “The Unfair Sex,” “They Knew
What They Wanted,” “Abie’s Irish Rose,”
“The Sentimental Bloke” and “Six-Cylinder
Love” are obvious examples. Every second
moving-picture shows a close-up of one of
Lhe star’s eyes, with a baby reflected in
it to indicate the direction of the lady’s
thoughts. Both eyes are never shown, as
twins are not a part of the convention. Tin-
explanation of this obstetrical obsession is
to be sought for in the birth-rate statistics.
People like to become (in imagination) mil-
lionaires and parents, for a night, without
having to accumulate the money or the
family. They enjoy vicarious sensations, ami.
from all accounts, babies are becoming more
vicarious every day.
“Deadhead” : An experiment that is being
watched with hostility and uneasiness by the
pampered pets of Movieland has been made
by an enterprising picture-producer, Karl
Brown. He went down into the Tennessee
back-country, equipped only with his tech-
nical outfit, and marshalled a cast of moun-
taineers, most of whom had never seen the
inside of a theatre. After a few rehearsals
he shot a simple story of his own devising.
It seems likely to prove a success. The
piquancy of seeing close-ups of faces with
some strength and character in them, and
an air of naturalness about the movements,
more than compensates for any lack of the
brummagem “art” of the studios. If the
idea takes on it will make picture-producing
easier in Australia. Hollywood’s strength
has always lain in the carefully-fostered illu-
sion that its millionaire stars and expensive
papier-mache sets were absolutely necessary
for a good picture.
“Hamfat”: The industrious Harrison
Owen, who struck his niche on the lighter
London papers not long after he arrived from
Australia, has followed the path of success
to the stage door. Basil Dean is producing
his “The Happy Husband,” with the usual
trial on the provincial dog and an opening in
London during June. It may be a different
play or a re-written piece, but Harrison
Owen tried to get a thing with the same title
taken by managements in Australia. Need-
less to say, it wasn’t given a chance.
“W.L.T.”: D. P. McGuire (B. 26/5/’27i
is horrified at the thought of “Hamlet” on
the silver sheet. It has been put there,
however, and in such a way as to give rea 1
pleasure to this lover of the tragedy. I
saw the film version in 1913; Forbes Robert-
son and Gertrude Elliott were the princi-
pals, and the story was helped along with
slabs of the text for sub-titles. In modern
movie technique these, of course, would find
no place, but not being old-fashioned in 191”
they were no bar to enjoyment. The scene
of Ophelia at the brook was something to
cherish in remembrance.
“Ancient Prompter” : What does it matter
whether actors play or fake the piano in
sight of the audience (B. 26/5/’27) so long
as the desired effect is produced? The only
actor I can recall who didn’t fake music on
the stage was Gaston Mervale. In Nellie
Stewart’s “Trilby” some years ago Mervale
as Svengali proved himself a splendid piano
executant; but he is that rara avis, an actor-
musician.
SECOND MURDERER.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
An easy character to play?
That’s where you critics go astray.
My gruesome job, you little guess,
Requires most delicate finesse.
To throttle girls I’m not required—
I’m only an apprentice hired —
For when there is a lass to choke
I leave it to the other bloke.
I merely hang around the scene
In readiness to intervene.
In case the Murderer-in-Chicf
Breaks down in conscience-stricken grief.
Though in the background 1 must lurk
While he performs liis bloody work.
My boss takes all the credit for
The gurgles and the gushing gore.
“HOLDING HIS AUDIENCE.”
Beware! I can’t forget his sneer.
He little knows his death is near!
The night that real murder’s doue
You’ll see me Murderer No. 1!
N.S.W.
ARTHUR II. ADAMS.


Shipping.
WINTER TOURS
Escorted Tours to
JAVA : : MALAYA
SIAM : : JAPAN
Independent Inclusive Tours to
HONOLULU, CALIFORNIA,
BRITISH COLUMBIA,
SOUTH AFRICA, CEYLON,
NORTH QUEENSLAND.
WINTER SPORTS AT:
Mount Buffalo (Vic.), Mount Cook (N.Z.),
South Sea Island Cruises.
Special Programme Post Free from
THOS. COOK & SON,
MELBOURNE:
269 Collins Street.
ADELAIDE :
SYDNEY:
Martin Place.
PERTH:
49a Grenfell Street. 22 Forrest Street (Opp. G.P.0.).
BRISBANE, via BYRON BAY
Through Tickets to Brisbane issued.
S.S. ORARA—Every Saturday evening; passengers
due Brisbane Monday afternoon.
S.S. WOLLONGBAR—Every Tuesday evening;
passengers due Brisbane Thursday afternoon.
Both vessels fitted with Wireless Receiving Sets.
BRISBANE:
FARES.—
Steamer and Motor throughout, Single, £4
Steamer and Motor throughout. Return, £7/5/-
Steamer and First-class Rail, Single, £3/15/-
Steamer and Second-class Rail, Single, £-3/8/-
NORTH COAST S. N. CO., LTD.,
Passengers’ Office:
TOURIST BUREAU, CHALLIS HOUSE,
MARTIN PLACE, SYDNEY.
Brisbane Booking Agents: Burns, Philp and Co., Ltd.
PAUSE AWHILE IN SUNNY
HAWAII
Enjoy eternally balmy weather —in novel setting
of tropical moonlight and melody, quaint tea-
rooms, Oriental bazaars. Exciting surfing and
outrigger canoeing at Waikiki. Enchanted
cruises to the lovely islands of Kauai, Maui
and Hawaii. Golf and motor on all principal
islands. A vacation that is different. Good
hotels from 12/- to £3 per day, with meals.
No extra cost for “stop-over” privilege en
route to America or Europe. Round-trip,
Sydney and return, 8 weeks, or less (3 or 4
weeks in Hawaii), £lOO to £l5O, inclusive.
Ask nearest travel or steamship agent; or
write Hawaii Tourist Bureau, Dept. 26, Box
241 D, G.P.0., Sydney, N.S.W., for full infor-
mation in attractive booklet, attaching this
advertisement.
PLAN NOW TO ENJOY
HAWAII
Banking, Public Companies, etc.
The Australian Bank of Commerce Limited
Authorised Capital .. .. .. £5,000,000
Capital Paid Up and Reserves .. .. £2,685,303
Aggregate Assets at 30th June, 1926 ..£16,789,590
Directors: Sir Mark Sheldon, K.B.E., Chairman ;
Frank N. Yauwood ; Duncan Carson; H. R.
Lysaght, OIB.E.; George J. Sly, LL.D.; Lieut.-
Col. T. L. F|. Rutledge.
General Manager: C. M. C. Shannon.
Chief Inspector for N.S.W.: VV. G. Hull.
HEAD OFFICER SYDNEY (Corner George and King
Streets).
Branches and Receiving Offices at 151 places in
New Soutli Wales.
BRISWANE (264 Queen Street).
Chief Inspector for Queensland: L. Aveyard.
Manager: G. H. Howell.
Branches and .Receiving Offices at 27 places in
Queensland.
MELBOURNE (325 Collins Street).
Manager: M. B. Finney.
ADELAIDE (35 Bundle Street).
Manager: R. T. Hoodie.
PERTH, W.A. (73 St. George’s Terrace).
Manager; A. C. Dibdin.
LONDON (37 Threadneedle Street, E.C.2).
Manager: A. F. Jenkins.
London Directors :
A. Dodds FAiatRAiRN, Alfred Shepherd.
Agents throughout Australia. Tasmania and New
Zealand, and at all the Chief Cities of the World.
Every description of Banking Business Transacted.
Bank of New Zealand.
SYDNEY BRANCH:
Corner ' GEORGE and WYNYARD
STREETS.
Guaranteed^Stock .. .. .. £529,988
Preference Shares . . . . ■ • 1,875,000
Ordinary Shares ■ • • • ■ • 3,750,000
Reserve Fund and Undivided Profits 3,390,378
GRANTS DRAFTS
on Australia, New
Zealand, Fiji, Samoa,
Great Britain and Ireland, and other places.
RECEIVES DEPOSITS
at interest
for fixed
periods and transacts all other usual Banking business.
The Bank of Adelaide
(Incorporated 18*55.)
BRISBANE OFFICE: QUEEN STREET.
PERTH OFFICE: ST. GEORGE’S TERRACE.
Also FREMANTLE, W.A.
MELBOURNE OFFICE: 267 COLLINS STREET.
SYDNEY OFFICE: 279 GEORGE STREET.
Authorised Capital .. .. ..£2,000,000
Subscribed Capital, increased to .. 1,000,000
Paid Up Capital,
Reserve Fund,
. . £1,000,000
850,000
Reserve liability of
increased to
£1,850,000
shareholders,
.'. 1,000,000
£2,850,000
Head Office: ADELAIDE, SOUTH AUSTRALIA
Also 114 Branches and Agencies in South Australia.
London Office: 11 LEADENHALL STREET, E.C.
Agencies in all Australian States and throughout
the world.
Drafts and Letters of Credit issued on London, America
and elsewhere. Bills from abroad collected and pro
ceeds remitted. All usual banking business transacted
If any illustration in The Bulletin takes
your fancy, write to the Manager, who will
quote you price for the original.
Shipping, etc,
CANADA, UNITED STATES,
UNITED KINGDOM
FORTNIGHTLY SAILINGS FROM SYDNEY.
CANADIAN-AUSTRALASIAN ROYAL MAIL LINE.
via Auckland, Suva (Fiji), Honolulu, Victoria and Vancouver.
UNION ROYAL MAIL LINE
via Wellington, Rarotonga, Tahiti and San Francisco.
MAKURA 8,072 tons, JUNE 16, for San Francisco.
AORANGI 17,400 „ JUNE 30, for Vancouver.
TAHITI 7,900 „ JULY 14, for San Francisco.
NIAGARA 13,415 „ JULY 28, for Vancouver.
Fast and splen-
didly equipped
steamers using
oil fuel.
Spacious Decks,
Unrivalled
Cuisine.
I
XT'-..
The Scenic
Routes to the
United Kingdom,
via South Sea
Islands, Canada,
United States.
TICKETS TO THE UNITED KINGDOM INTERCHANGEABLE FOR
RETURN BY OTHER LINES.
HONOLULU EXCURSIONS BY AORANGI AND NIAGARA.
UNION STEAM SHIP CO.
f Union House, 24 7 George Street, Sydney.
\ William Street, Melbourne.
MACDONALD, HAMILTON & CO., Brisbane, Adelaide and Perth.
SOUTH SEA TOURS
Attractive Island Trips, occupying about //§ Weclcs.
SIX-WEEKLY SAILINGS FROM SYDNEY TO
Nour Britain' S.S. "MONTORO” (5000 tons)
iiC IV Dllldlll* Sails June 28 and August 0.
rI*l*n >1*■ S.S. “MATARAM” (3500 tons)
oolomon Islands* Sails July 20 and August 31.
A Delightful Holiday in Island Wonderlands.
For Particulars apply—
BURNS, PHILP & CO., LTD.,
Sydney, Melbourne, Adelaide and Brisbane.
r*'r
Bis.
m
BURNS, PHILP & CO., LTD.,
Passenger Booking Agents for All Steamship Lines
To
ENGLAND CANADA JAPAN
EUROPE AFRICA CHINA
AMERICA INDIA JAVA, etc.
At regular passage rates. No extra charge.
Attractive Tour to
NOUMEA, JAVA, HONOLULU, COLOMBO, etc
VISIT JAVA (The wonderland of the East).
Regular monthly sailings of the s.s. “Marella” and
m.s. “Malabar” to Java and Singapore via Queensland
ports, Thursday Island, Darwin, etc. Smooth-water trip,
Deck Cabins, interesting ports of call.
APPLY
BURNS, PHILP & COMPANY, LIMITED,
WORLD TOUR and TRAVEL DEPARTMENT.
7 BRIDGE STREET, SYDNEY.
BANK
OF NEW SOUTH WALES.
Established 1817.
PAID-UP CAPITAL
RESERVE FUND
RESERVE LIABILITY
1
BTttg
Directors:
£ 6,875,000
4,750,000
6,875,000
£18,500,000
Thomas Buckland, Esq., President.
The Hon Reginald J. Black, M.L.C.
Charles Binnie, Esq.
James Burns, Esq.
Robert L. Faithfull, Esq., M.D.
Robert W. Gillespie, Esq.
Franc B. S. Fnlldner, Esq.
4 4'tors • \V H. Palmer, Esq.; S. E. Laidley, Esq. General Manager: OSCAR LINES.
Head Office— George Street, Sydney. London Office — 29 Threadneedle Street, E.C. 2.
ea ,77 Uianclies and Agencies in the Australian States, Federal Territory, New Zealand, Fiji, Papua,
l Tprvitorv of New Guinea and London. Agents and Correspondents throughout the world
Mandated °J Mces made tO , and drafts drawn on Foreign places DIRECT. Foreign Bills
tided ‘lr.'rt ollected. T.etters of Credit Issued, negotiable throughout the world.
The Commercial Banking Company
of Sydney Limited
ESTABLISHED 1834.
CAPITAL PAID UP £4,671,712 10 0
RESERVE FUND 3,850,000 0 0
RESERVE CAPITAL 4,723,187 10 0
£13,244,900 0 0
Direct or s:
GEORGE J. GOHEN, Chairman : Hon. SIR THOMAS HUGHES. M.L.C., Deputy
Chairman • Hon. JAMES ASHTON, M.L.C.; Major-General the Hon. J. W.
MACARTHUR ONSLOW, V.D., M.L.C.; Sir WILLIAM VICARS, C.R.E.
General Manager: J. R. DRYHURST.
HEAD OFFICE: Sydney, 343 George Street.
London Offices —18 Bircliin Lane, Lombard St., E.C.3, and 69 King William St., E.C.
Branches throughout Queensland, New South Wales and Victoria and Branch at Adelaide, South
Australia. Agencies throughout Australia and New Zealand, and all other parts of the World.
All Classes of General Banking and Exchange Business Transacted.
SAFE DEPOSIT VAULTS.-—lnspection invited. Particulars of
Safe Rentals on application.
.Shipping, etc,
Inter-State Steamship
Sailings.
(Passenger Sailings—Circumstances permitting.)
FOR MELBOURNE, ADELAIDE and FREMANTLE
(Transhipping at Melbourne for Geelong and other
Victorian ports; at Adelaide for S.A. Gulf ports;
and at Fremantle for Perth, Bunbury, Geraldton
and North-West Ports).
FOR QUEENSLAND PORTS
(Transhipping at Brisbane for Maryborough, Bunda-
berg and Gladstone, and at Townsville for outports).
* Brisbane, Mackay (no cargo for Mackay), Townsville
and Cairns.
Huddart ParkerLlM 1
Magnificent
Fast Passenger
Steamships
STEAMERS TO NEW ZEALAND—ReguIar sailings
from Sydney to New Zealand ports and vice versa.
Particulars to be obtained on application.
STEAMERS TO TASMANIA —From Sydney to Hobart
and vice versa as per daily papers. Between Mel-
bourne and Launceston as per daily papers.
For full particulars apply HUDDART PARKER LIMITEO
joilins Street, Melbourne; Bridge Street, Sydney.
Interstate Telegraphic address :
“NALDHAM.”
Cable address:
“NALDHAM”
Macdonald, Hamilton 8 Co.
247 George Street, Sydney.
Shipping Agents, Merchants, Colliery
Proprietors, Tug and Lighter Owners.
MANAGING AGENTS FOR
Australasian United Steam Navigation Co., Ltd.
Fitzroy Estates, Ltd.
ISlaekheath Collieries, Ltd., and Caledonian
Collieries, Ltd.
Eastern & Australian Steamship Co., Ltd.
AGENTS FOR
British-India S. N. Co., Ltd. P. & O. S. N. Co.
Queensland Line of Steamers. Scottish Shire Line
(Turnbull, Martin & Co.). New Zealahd Shipping Co.,
Ltd. Carudian-Australasian Royal Mail Line, San
Francisco Service (Union S. S. Co.), Union S. S. Co.
of New Zealand, Ltd. Hain Line. Huddart Parker,
Ltd. London Assurance Corporation (Marine). Mel-
bourne Agents for Messageries Maritimes Co. Queens-
land Agents for Sea Insurance Co., Ltd.
BRANCHES at Perth, Fremantle, Adelaide, Port
Adelaide, Melbourne, Suva (Fiji), Brisbane, Mary-
borough, Bundaberg and Bowen.
Australian Mutual
ProvidentSociety
Established
1849.
Head Office:
87 Pitt St., Sydney
The Largest and Most Successful
Mutual Life Office in the British Empire,
Distributes a Cash Bonus Every Year.
Amount Distributed for single year 1926 £2,887,200
Yielding Reversionary Additions to
Policies of over .. .. .. £4,893,000
Accumulated * Funds .. .. .. £63,600,000
Annual Income .. .. .. .. £9,600,000
The Society transacts Every Class of Ordinary
and Industrial Assurance Business.
H. W. APPERLY, F.S.S.. General Manager.
Hotel
Kosciusko
Early Winter
Tourist Concession
Ticket.
First-Class Return]
Rail, Motor,
3J Days Hotel. J
£8146
July and August excepted.
Bookings and Further Particulars at —
N.S.W. Government
TOURIST BUREAU
Challis House, 8 Martin Place,
Sydney.


UfcV/ 16 H P 6-c v/ ,
''sunbeam *«
A WONDERFUL specification at a moderate price. A powerful
smooth-running engine. Four speed, right-hand, gate-change
gear-box. Smooth operating four wheel brakes. A chassis
designed for strength without an ounce of superfluous weight. Long,
cantilever rear springs with shock absorbers for the maximum of
comfort. Coachwork roomy, comfortable and exclusive in the refine-
ment of its line. Specially constructed for arduous conditions, having
a minimum ground clearance of 10 inches.
Radiator designed with sufficient capacity and a fan to ensure efficient
cooling in tropical heat. Write for full particulars to: —
AUTHORISED DEALERS.
THE ALL BRITISH MOTOR CO. PTY., LTD., 111-113. Russell Street, Melbourne.
WILLIAMS, HILL & CAMERON, LTD., 20.'-207 Casßlereagh Street, Sydney.
AUSTRAL MOTORS, LTD., Corner Hay and Pier Streets, Perth ; and Queen Victoria
Street, Fremantie.
RASCH MOTORS, LTD., 69 YVaymouth Street, Adelaide.
: MANUFACTURERS:
THE SUNBEAM MOTOR CAR CO., LTD.,
Wolverhampton, England.
SPECIAL EXPORT DEPARTMENT:
12 Princes Street, Hanover Square, London, W.l.
Cables: “SUBEAMOCO,” London.
OTHER MODELS.
20 and 25 h.p. 6-cylinder with open or closed eoachw'ork.
ALL SUNBEAM OVERSEAS MODELS ARE BUILT WITH CORRECT TRACK AND
- NECESSARY GROUND CLEARANCE.
“ De Reszke
V; ,v ~~ °f course
’ vs «
K
II
Ivory Tipped
or Plain
<•
♦
You can’t remove
what never was there
“ What is there about these DeReszkes
that makes them so different ? Of
course, there’s the famous name, but—”
“ But you can’t taste that. No, child,
it’s the tobacco that’s in them. Have
you heard tell of all the sand that has
to be extracted from some tobaccos to
make them fit to smoke ? Well, there’s
no sand to be extracted from De Reszke
tobacco. Only the choice middle
leaves near the top of the plant are
used—and those don’t get sand-blown
as do the cheap lower leaves, and are
of infinitely better quality. Now
you know ! ”
DE RESZKE
Virginias
TEN FOR NINEPENCE
Also in 20*$, fo’s and ioo's.
J. MILLIIOFF & CO., LTD., 86 PICCADILLY, LONDON, W.l.
Agents for N.S.W.: DALGETY & COMPANY, LTD., Sydney.
in
m.
vO
//
N 0.107 Stevens
Single barrel
shotgun - auto-
matic ejector.
12 ga., 16 ga.,
20 ga., 28 ga.,
and .410 ga.
You Have It
Here!
What do you require of a shot-
gun? You will find the answer
in this popular Stevens Single-
barrel Shotgun, Model 107.
And, for real value, high qual-
ity, true-shooting, there is
nothing to compare with the
Stevens line of Singles. Model
107 is the top-lever type with
automatic ejector. Quick, sim-
ple take-down. Principal parts
of action made of chrome
vanadium steel. Barrel proof
tested for heavy nitro powder
loads.
Exclusive Representative for Australia
and New Zealand
ASHER SMITH, LTD.
P. O. Box 966 Sydney, N. S. W.
J. STEVENS ARMS CO.
Export Offices: 100 East 42nd Street, New York, U. S. A.
Owners of Page-Lewis Arms Co.
Owned and operated by Savage Arms Corporation
/
V
depends on
two things
1. Having a nib exactly suited to your hand-
writing.
2. Having an instant and even supply of ink.
Among the wide range of cc Swan ” nibs you are sure to
find one that is perfectly suited to your hand—a nib that
makes writing easier and—thanks to its osmi--iridium tip—one
that will virtually last a lifetime.
No more dipping your pen into an inkwell —hold your
ink supply in your hand. A smooth even flow of ink
always at the nib-point, when it is wanted —at all other times
securely held in the barrel—leakproof.
'Swan
“Swan” Self-filling Fountpens range in price from ijj6upwards.
MABIE, TODD & CO., LIMITED,
é
133 & 135 Oxford Street, London, W. i.
Factory: Swan Works, London, N.W.
Swan” Pens, “Blackbird ” Pens, “Swan ” Ink.
Agents and Repair Service Depot:
PHIPSON & COMPANY, LTD.,
Broughton House, 181 Clarence Street, SYDNEY.
ë


Chilblains Hurt! Rexona Heals!
All those who have suffered from Chilblains know what pain and suffering they cause.
Chilblains make thousands of us fellow sufferers. Ask your neighbors and you will find
many for whom chilblains have lost their terror—they have used Rexona. One application
and soon the hot, throbbing pain begins to die away. Rexona’s healing work has begun.
It will not be long before the inflammation subsides and you will learn what a really rapid
healer Rexona is.
For many years Rexona has been relieving
and healing more burns, scalds, cuts, bruises,
chilblains, sunburn, chafing and skin irritation
than any other healer known to science.
Rexona depends upon the recommendation of
its friends and users, and it is this recommen-
dation that has made its use so universal
throughout Australia. Keep a dainty pot of
Rexona handy on the shelf and have its cool
green ointment ready to relieve and heal.
Rexona-
The Rapid
Healer
Coolino
V-
A
M 'Soothing -A\
/ff Healing
/f/flntiseptic Ointmenl^
ff\ niirlf ,es f Absolutely
j‘ £ Heals Reliable
m
r A Reliable Healer for all Eruptions
and Irritalions of the Skin. Eczema Sores. Cuts.
Bums Bruises. Sores. Sciatica. Piles Stings of Insecb.
and all Linds of Inflammalion
DRUG’GiC^SVDNEV?
THE TRIANGULAR BOX
"■”!
ilfi I
o
o
Chocolates
If
' -
J.
HI
*
»
..
cm V
Li IS
11 1 do like my Daddy—see
what he's brought me home!"
The Famous Red Box of Chocolates.
Mailed to you the day they are made.
Prices:
3/-, 5/6, 6/-, 10/-, 12/6,
20/- and 30/-
Post free to any address in Australia.
162-66 PITT STREET.
BRANCHES :
CR. GEORGE AND KING
STREETS;
CASTLEREAGH STREET
(Next Theatre Royal),
SYDNEY.
Send for Catalogue illustrated
with reproductions of our con-
fectionery in colors.
The Haunted Room.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
O’ERTOPPING its pale spire, the
candle’s flame
Hangs like a topaz in the caverned
night
Of this still room, dim with the formless
might
Of that which none may name.
The shadows, like a blind man’s fingers,
roam;
With sidling stealth they fumble to and
fro;
Yet still I wait and wait, for soon, I know
Again she will come home.
These four bare walls have not forgotten her.
She will come back; scarce can she choose
but come,
So much of life she had, who now lies
dumb,
With no least finger’s stir.
S° I wait here, I whom she never knew,
More sure than of Death’s self that come
she will,
ttA smiJing shadow that Death cannot kill,
*' ith eyes that yet are blue.
Is it so strange? It seems not so to me.
I have so many times in fancy seen
Her swift feet blur the polished stairways’
sheen.
Tip-toeing silently.
She loved this room ; it shared her hopes and
fears,
This room, whence all her sentience never
fled,
rn But with the awful candor of the dead
lells all her heart’s swift years.
>o ®i' little ghost, I crave no exorcist,
Who scorn the foolish fashion that men
keep!
Is it not e’en as she had fall’n asleep
And kept in dreams a tryst ?
Why should we make of Death’s poor
commonplace,
A mystery, a horror and a fear!
f wait a happy ghost whose eyes are clear
With laughter’s dauntless grace.
For she was happy here, so long ago,
And when youth gave her all its flowers,
said
“I shall remember these when I am dead ”
And it is even so.
Fnder the azure shadow of the day,
She heard the music that the’ moments
make
And saw the sea dawn’s wings, gold flake
by flake
Melt slowly far away.
She loved the flame of flowers, the calling sea
And so she comes, grown weary of the dark
And those clear eyes, that shame the
candle s spark,
Tell all her heart to me.
Men smile. “ ’Tis but a dreamer’s folly»”
Yet
Is it so strange she dreams of summer’s
breath,
In the cold immortality of Death,
And cannot quite forget?
QUEENSLAND.
J. HOLLOWAY.
Captain Maconochie.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
CAPTAIN Alexander Maconochie, R.N.,
walked down Macquarie-street, in
Hobart Town, on liis way to call
upon Sir John Franklin at Government
House, and found the morning all that a
morning- should be to a happy man. Behind
him the high blue ramparts of Mount Well-
ington— you are always conscious of the
mountain in Hobart Town, even when it is
behind you—dominated the forest on its talus,
the pretty town nestling in English gardens
between its foot-hills and the blue waters of
the Derwent, and all the world of loveliness
that spreads itself thereabout. Before him
were the sparkling wide reaches of the river
across which the distant hills and ranges
slumbered m a faint blue haze of summer
beyond the coastline over Risdon way
Captain Maconochie was optimistic this
mormng—the aspect of a chain-gang, shuffling
and slouching along from the gaol, towards
bullivan Cove, between the glittering fixed
bayonets of a corporal’s guard, did not
dimmish Ins cheerfulness. Even the sight of
those cunning and pitiful and ugl v and hope-
less faces could not put him out of humor
r!i th rm world ~as such a spectacle usually
did. The procession of miserable wretches,
the clinking of the looped-up chains of their
leg-irons, and the curt, harsh orders of the
two overseers who supervised them reminded
the good man that he was the ordained in-
strument of change, and that, when a few
years should have passed by, thanks to the
inevitable successful issue of the experiment
“ Penal discipline he was about to begin at
Aorfolk Island, most of the horrors of servi-
tude in convict-ridden countries would only
be bad memories. He was an incurable
optimist and knew well that the goodness of
Hod must prevail and triumph, even in
connection with such a wholly bad and evil
thing as the bystem” that prevailed in the
penal- settlements of Van Diemen’s Land and
its dependencies in the year of grace 3840.
( He was on his way to take leave of the
Governor before sailing for the island ; and
even though there was still a little soreness
in his nnnd over Ins cusmissal from his post
ot secretary to his Excellency some eighteen
months before he looke,! forwS to fte
kindly farewell and warm good wishes he
knew he would receive from his fellow-sailor
lSlr J< ? hn w ' ls all that a man should be
r™; h a eart^ d and onerous, and had the wel-
tare and redemption of poor prisoners almost
as much at heart as he had himself.
At the top of the slope, towards the water-
side, he heard liis name spoken, softly and
hesitantly, in a woman’s voice. He had been
occupied with his thoughts, and had not
noticed her cross the dusty roadway from
the other side of Macquarie-street. She had
come up behind him.
“Captain Maconochie—oh, a moment, if
you please.”
He turned about, a little startled, and
found himself face t 0 face with a lady in
a dark gown heavily veiled. She was a tall
and graceful woman, and, though lie could
not see her face, her figure indicated that
she was not an old woman. Vaguely he
wondered what she wanted with him, as
he raised his top hat.
Yes, ma am t I —ah—fear that you have
the advantage of me. May I ask what I
can do for you, pray?”
She threw back her veil and revealed her
face—one that was exceedingly beautiful,
and very sad and serious; the face of a
middle-aged woman who had retained some-
thing of her girlhood. She was gazing at
him with a beseeching wistfuluess, and when
she spoke it was in a low, deep tone that
somehow made her seem older.
“Sir,” she said, "I'm afraid—l hardly
know how to put it—l fear that you may
consider me presumptuous. It is difficult to
say it —oh, but how desperate I am! If you
only knew!”
Benevolence was the bump in the good
seaman’s skull that was most developed. He
made a little soothing gesture with his right
hand, and forgot that he was pressed for
time and had a thousand matters to see to
before the Governor Phillip sailed at daylight
on the morrow. This sad woman and her
trouble was all that mattered to Alexander
Maconochie. Norfolk Island might wait, Sir
John Franklin might wait —though there was
an appointment for a definite hour. Even
the redemption of unhappy souls in the hells
of Port Arthur and the island would, if
necessary, be postponed a little, until lie had
learned how he might help this most obvi-
ously unhappy lady. Pie spoke to her coax-
ingly, as he would have requested a child
to take a dose of castor oil.
“Come, _ come, then, ma’am —pray do not
give way.” He had seen the ready tears.
“Will you not oblige me by taking niy arm?
There. We will walk down the hill, and you
can acquaint me with your trouble. At your
leisure, ma’am —at your leisure. Pray do
not put yourself out, ma’am. Now, will
you not tell me what it is that is worrying
you so deeply? I assure you that I will
treat it with every confidence, and if there
is anything—anything at all that I can
do”
She did as he suggested, and timidly laid
her gloved little hand in the crook of his
elbow. He sensed, rather than felt, the
tiniest of sobs as her weight leaned for a
moment against his arm. She was rallying
herself. She was a pretty woman in deep
distress, and anyone, he assured himself, who
called himself a man could not have done
otherwise than he was doing. It never
crossed his mind that he would have behaved
in an exactly similar fashion had she been
a half-drunken lag from the female factory
up the road behind them, even had half
Ilobarton been looking on from the other side
of Macquarie-street.
“Come, now,” he encouraged her gently,
“I am all attention, ma’am.”
“Oh, sir,” she faltered, “you are kindness
itself. I—l must apologise to you. But I
am greatly distressed —greatly worried.”
“There, there—pray tell me what it is,
ma’am.”
For a little while further she did not speak.
He knew that she was making a valiant effort
towards self-control. Presently she ques-
tioned him, in her low, deep voice.
“You are Captain Maconochie, sir?”
“At your service, ma’am —entirely at your
service.”
“You are about to proceed to Norfolk
Island, sir, there to undertake the command?”
“Yes—to-morrow. I sail in the brig to-
morrow morning, ma’am. If there is anything
I can do —any little service I may render —
'twill be a pleasure, I’m sure. What is it,
pray—come, now. What is your trouble,
ma’am?”
And then she told him, whilst they walked
slowly down the road. He listened atten-
tively, from time to time nodding sympatheti-
cally, as, with nervous hesitation, she poured
forth her tale of sorrow. They were almost
at the gate of Government House before she
had come to the end of her story.
She had a son at Norfolk Island, she
said, who was a young man of hardly twenty-
one—oh yes, she had been married when she
was seventeen, and had been widowed ten
years. He had been a medical student at
St. Bartholomew’s. A little fast—that was
all. Bad companions—a queer, reckless tem-
perament, but no real harm in him. Oh
no —7 n °t easily led. Not at all. Rather
obstinate and stubborn, but foolishly reckless,
and perhaps a little inclined to sexual dis-
sipation. An only child, and she must con-
fess to having spoiled him a little when he
was a boy. God forgive her —that was all
he was now ! But a mother’s feelings—and
she a widow! Captain Maconochie would
understand. Last year it had happened. A
joke-—a mere silly piece of harebrained folly.
He and two others had disguised themselves
as highwaymen, and had stopped the York
mail-coach near St. Albans. But the guard
and the passengers had taken it seriously—
before they could explain that it was only
their fun, poor fellows—and one of his com-
panions had been shot dead. Dreadful!
Horrible —for a piece of boyish folly to turn
out so tragically! Well, he and his surviv-
ing comrade had been apprehended, and were
actually brought to trial ait the Old Bailey.
Imagine that! But the very worst had
happened. No one would believe that it was
only a joke. Guilty—yes, (he stupid jury had
found them guilty. And the Judge—Sir
William Baines it was, the Recorder of
London—he had passed a savage sentence.
Fourteen years’ transportation to Van
Diemen’s Land. Infamous! Diabolical! Had
Captain Maconochie ever heard of such a
thing? Dreadful! So, as soon as she could
arrange her affairs, she had followed him out
here, with some vague hope of seeing the
Governor, and getting her son assigned to
herself as a servant. She had heard that
(Continued on next page.)


a/fade m
403 BOURKt ST. MELBOURNE
AND AT
SYDNEY.
Bells Bells Bells
For Churches. For Schools. For Ships, etc.
For over 50 years we have cast bells for Churches, Schools, Ships,
Clocks, Factories, etc. Our Bells are noted for their beauty of
sound throughout Australia and in the Islands, They are made
of genuine Bell Metal and thus possess the real bell tone.
We also cast
Church Peals
Of an octave Or Over, correctly turied. These Bells being made
in OUr Melbourne and Sydney Factories, prompt delivery, free
frOtn Overseas freight arid duty charges, is assured.
We make angle steel Towers fdr use where belfries and Towers
are not available.
Particulars and prices Post free.
JOHN DANKS &SON PTY.LTD.
391-403 BOURKE ST, MELBOURNE
324-330 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
INSTRUMENT AND DRESSING TABLE.
H. 86.
Hospital Equipment
Including Chairs, Tables, Cabinets, Stands, Trolleys, Waggons, Towel
Rails, Bed Screens, Bedsteads, Sterilisers, Incinerators and Sanitary
Porcelain Enamel Earthenware, etc.
OUR OWN MANUFACTURE
Most of the metal goods are now being manufactured at our own works,
and are of our usual high standard both in Materials and Workmanship.
The Table illustrated is semi-circular in form, enclosing assistants and
preventing intrusion at clinics.
PRICES ON APPLICATION.
Prompt attention to all inquiries.
JOH N DAN KS & SON PTY. LTD.
HMS
391-403 BOUItKE ST. MELBOURNE
324-330 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
such things were done. But when she arrived
in Hobart Town last week she had learned,
to her grief and dismay, that Walter had
been sent to Norfolk Island. Well, it seemed
that lie had been insubordinate to the over-
seer of the probation gang in which he was
working, had been punished, and had theft
assaulted the overseer —who, she had been
told, was very brutal to the prisoners. She
had a favor to beg of Captain Maconochie —
would he forgive her importunity, and make
allowances for a mother’s natural feelings?
She knew that she was wrong in asking,
but
“No, no, ma’am—l am greatlv touched by
your misfortunes, and would wish to be of
what assistance I may—compatible, of
course, with my duty to the service. Have
.you seen the Governor?”
She had, but Sir John could do nothing.
The overseer had been nearly killed. Her
son must suffer his punishment, which Was
five years’ transportation to Norfolk Island.
There was no help for it, though he had
assured her that she had his deepest sym-
pathy, and had advised her to see him,
Captain Maconochie. Would lie promise her
to do what he could for poor Walter? He
was more sinned against than sinning. Would
he talk with him, and tell him that she had
hopes of securing a pardon for him —if he
would only have patience. She had influence
at home, powerful influence, and had every
hope that, in a year or so, something might
be done. But she feared that her poor boy
might involve himself in further troubles,
in the bitterness of his despair. Would the
captain be kind enough to do this much for
her, and to keep an eye upon him ? A
mother’s blessings would be his- —oh, and God
would bless him also. Oh, she implored him!
Captain Maconochie was deeply moved by
her distress. He promised to do his best.
What was the name?
“ Hebblethwaite.”
“Not, by any chance, a relative of the late
Commander Hebblethwaite, who was lost in
the frigate Velocity when she foundered in
the Irish Sea with all bands, in the winter
•of '30?”
“He was my husband, sir.”
“Heavens above, ma’am —Jim Hebble-
thwaite and I were the oldest of friends!
My dearest friend! Madam, you may rely
on me. Entirely. I will save your son for
you. God bless my soul—Jim Hebble-
thwaite’s son!”
* * * *
Captain Maconochie paced up and down the
verandah of Government House at Norfolk
Island, considering the world in which he
found himself, its loveliness and charm, and
the many serious problems that confronted
him. They were very serious—very difficult.
He was not blind as to that, or so infatuated
with his plan of regeneration for these 1500-
odd outcasts as not to put a proper value
upon the task lie had undertaken. He had
been a fortnight in the island, and every day
he was made to realise more surely that he
Was playing a lone hand. No one would
help him, not even the unhappy men he
designed to save from circumstances and
from themselves. He knew that all official-
dom in Hobart Town held him to be half
crazy, looked for his ill success, and even
hoped for it.. And the Colonial Office, though
it had sanctioned the great experiment, was
only half-hearted about it. He sighed as he
thought of what lay before him. But he had
had the courage of liis opinions regarding the
management of penal settlements of this sort,
and knew that he would always have it, let
whatever might eventuate. Fie was no time-
server, nor coward or weakling. If he failed
it would not be because he had not tried his
hardest for success. That thought was a
comfort to him. Fie could only do his best.
The insistent opposition of the Australian
colonies to a continuance of the convict
system had forced the British Government’s
hand, and the report of the select committee
of the House of Lords of 1837-38 —which
Maconochie had impressed by his evidence —
had decided it to make a change. In future,
convicts would only be sent to Norfolk
Island and Van Diemen’s Land, and at the
island his scheme of reformatory punishment
- —as opposed to a system that was wholly
vindictive, and sought to terrify possible evil-
doers by its severities —was to be given a fair
trial.
In his opinion, the remission of sentences
Avas the worst shortcoming of the old system,
since it allowed scope for favoritism, and was
uncertain and inequitable in its effects. Under
his scheme, the duration of a sentence should
not be determined by time, but by the good
conduct of the individual concerned, which
should be measured by marks awarded or kept
back. Each prisoner, unless ill-beliaved, would
receive daily a fixed number of them, in pay-
ment for his labor. They would take the
place of wages, and be exchangeable for such
indulgences as extra rations and increased
liberty—with the incentive of release when
a sufficient number of marks had been accu-
mulated. A man would have his choice
between “blewing” liis marks on creature
comfort and saving them up to shorten his
sentence, and would thus bear a continuous
responsibility that would help him to make
good. There had been no provision of this
sort before —nothing but terrible punishment
if he was bad. The actual length of sentence
on Norfolk Island was to depend entirely
upon a prisoner’s conduct. Almost exactly
the same principle is immlved in the indeter-
minate sentences of to-day.
Against the light, transparent blueish-
green of the half moon of Emily Bay within
the reef, and the almost purple-blue of the
foreshortened strip of sea lying between the
mainland and the conical hum]) of Phillip
Island —it is red and bare now, because of
the rabbits that were let go there to make
a game preserve for long-dead soldier-officers
—the red coat of the sentry, pacing up and
down outside the little Avliite Avicket-fence of
the garden, stood out in the morning sunlight
Avith startling vividness. His eye, catching
the brilliant blob of color, brought his mind
back to the present, and he remembered that
he Avas expecting the prisoner Walter Hebble-
thwaite. He had left instructions with the
Head Constable the night before that the
unhappy Avidow’s son—the son of his old
shipmate—was to be brought to him this
morning at ten o’clock. lie looked at his
watch. It was ten minutes past ten. Bless
his sou-1 —this wouldn’t do He must teach
these fellows a little of Navy punctuality.
hftleed, yes ! His step quickened a trifle as
lie resumed liis quarter-deck walk, up and
down the wide Verandah. It was only ten
paces either way—lie had never been able
to walk further than that on board ship.
Ah, here they were, coming across the flat
towards the garden gate—-the Head Constable,
Mr. Timothy O'Grady, and a heavily ironed
prisoner! This looked bad—and in tile name
of fortune, why was the man wearing llaiid-
euft's 7 This surely could not be Jim llebble-
thwaite’s son—-the son of the gentlewoman
who had pleaded so distressfully with him
in Hobarton, There Must be some mistake
—surely 3
At the garden gate O’Grady halted his
prisoner, and said something in a low tone
to the sentry. The latter immediately faced
the prisoner, and brought his bayoneted
musket to the charge, the point of the bayonet
but, a few inches from the man’s breast. The
Head Constable opened the gate, and walked
up the pathway, halting a few paces from
the edge of the verandah, and saluting- elabor-
ately and with perfect precision, Ho Was -.in
old marine sergeant-major,
“Number 834, y’r honor—pris’ner Hebble-
tliwaite, Walthet—fourteen year —and five
ye i ar , secoudT.y transportation to Norf’k
Island, Obedjint to y’r honor’s order of last
night, so it-.’’
"Good ged, O'Grady, why have you the
man handcuffed?” inquired the startled Com-
mandant. “What’s the matter with him?”
Faith, thin, y’r honor, 'tis a dang’rous
man he is entoirely. I t’ouglit it best, sorr,
for to be takin’ no chances. A bad ’un,
y’r honor—a rale desprit wan.”
“But surely not! I understand that this
young fellow is hardly twenty-one years of
age, and I know something of his parentage.
Can this sort of thing really be necessary?
It seems incredible to me that lie can be as
bad as this kind of treatment would seem
to indicate. Pray, whence have you brought
him? Is he confined to the gaol?”
“He is that, y’r honor—-an’ more than that.
I've brought him sthtraight from tli’ black
cells, where lie’s aftlier doin’ a fortnight’s
punishment on bread an’ water. He was
flogged last wake, y’r honor. ’Tis over on tli’
island yander lie ought for to be —all by his
lonesome on Phillip Island, an’ him wid
half rations. He’s not fit for to be here,
y r honor —an’ that’s sayiii’ something, 1
do assure ye, sorr.”
“Merciful heavens, O’Grady, what is lie
being punished for? And why do you think
he ought to be marooned on Phillip Island?
Come, tell me—l have some interest ill this
man. I know something of liis people. Pray,
what is it all about?”
"He was flogged, Sorr. for batin’ tli’ over-
seer of tli’ gang lie was a-worrukin’ wid at
tli' farrum at Longridge. An’ tli’ black cells
was for continued disobaydience to or-rders,
sorr. A black ribil he is—an’ that’s tli’
tint'. , As for Phillip Island, an’ him day-
sarvin’ for to be put over beyant there on his
lonesome—well, sorr” (Mr. O’Grady lowered
liis voice), “’tis not mesilf does be loikin’
for to mintion such a .thing to y’r honor,
but does y’r honor raymimber questionin’
mesilf an’ tli' docthor an’ Father Mulcahy
about tli' doin’s in number three war-rud?
I see ye do, sorr. Well, y’r honor, he’s one
o’ that sor’rt. Wan o’ tli’ worrust on th’
island. A hopeless case, y’r honor. More
a baste than a man, an’ ’tis not fair to tli’
bastes for to loiken such as him to ’em. so
it’s not.”
Captain Maconochie knew too well what
the Head Constable meant. He knew the
loathsome reputation of Norfolk Island in
this respect. But this boy! A living abomi-
nation, an excrescence upon humanity ! And
the son of his old shipmate—brave Jim
Hebblethwaite! And that heartbroken
mother in Hobarton, who was even now
awaiting the word he had promised her con-
cerning the condition of her only child ! He
groaned. But lie gave Mr. O’Grady an
order.
“Bring him over here, Mr. Head Constable.
I wish to speak to him.”
“Very good, y’r honor.” O’Grady saluted
punctiliously, wheeled about, and marched
to where the sentry was menacingly guarding
the young convict.
As Walter Hebblethwaite slouched up the
pathway towards where the Commandant
stood upon the edge of the verandah, the
latter shuddered as he looked at him. Never
before had he seen a viler countenance. He
tried to assure himself that he was uninflu-
enced by what the Head Constable had told
him, but the sight of this man sickened him.
Great God in Heaven, what was to be done
with him! His poor mother—God help her!
She must never know what her only son
really was—if he, Alexander Maconochie, had
to lie his soul away. And maybe, he could
do something.
He spoke to the sullen animal in front
of him. A broad-shouldered, immensely
powerful young man he looked. But his face
—his terrible face !
“Hebblethwaite,” lie said gently, “I am
truly sorry to see you in trouble. We must
change all this. I want to give you a chance,
my boy. Your father was my friend. I
have a message for you from your mother,
who is in Hobarton. I regret that I haven’t
been able to see you before. Now, I’m going
to tell Mr. O’Grady to unlock those hand-
cuffs—just to show you I trust you—and
then I’ll take you inside, and give you your
mother’s message. If you please, ' Mr.
O’Grady.”
But the handcuffs were not removed. With
a hoarse bellow of rage the prisoner spat at
the Commandant, and then broke out in a
torrent of obscene blasphemy that even the
hardened O’Grady shook to hear.
“To Hell with my mother! She’s a” ——
“God above us!” murmured Captain
Maconochie. Fie stared, speechless, at the
beast before him, whilst a stream of vileness
poured from its slavering mouth. At last
he found his voice. He shouted to the Head
Constable.
“Take him away. O’Grady—for God’s
sake take him away! Take him back to
where you brought him from. God have
mercy!” he gasped.
Mr. O’Grady smote his prisoner in the jaw.
The Commandant made no protest. It was
then that he began to have doubts as to what
he might do with Norfolk Island.
J. H. M. ABBOTT.


ÜBm
J?
I mW
* j (Ssi«J SI
. La® />F
'
PftiJ
WESTINGHOUSE
Morse Silent Rocker-Joint
CHAIN DRIVES
Ensure minimum wear—
Maximum life and highest
efficiency.
Chains in stock—-wheels manu-
factured to suit requirements.
Write for particulars
and Booklet BM 414.
THE WESTINGHOUSE BRAKE CO.
OF AUSTRALASIA LTD.,
Queensland Agents—HOL.MES as CHURCH, Brisbane.
N.Z. Office—93-107 Featherston Street, Wellington.
Victorian Office—99 Queen Street, Melbourne.
ē
South Australian Agents: Messrs. ELDER, SMITH & CO., LTD., Adelaide, S.A.
CORKBOARD
We are Sole Agents for High-grade Com-
pressed Corkboard, “Non-Plus-Ultra” and
“Record’ Brands, the finest insulation for Cold
Storage Rooms.
Supplied in standard sizes, 3ft. x I ft., thick-
nesses of l in., 2in. and 3in., and easily fixed.
Large Stocks always available.
J. WILDRIDGE 8 SINCLAIR, LTD.,
97 PITT STREET, SYDNEY,
And at Melbourne, Brisbane, Perth and Auckland (N.Z.).
nr
%
it
'A*
fvb
KERMATH MANUFACTURING CO.
Detroit, Michigan, U. S. A.
Cable Address: KERMATH
Marine
Engines
For all boats of the medium duty
type, Kermath Marine Engines of 3
to 100 horsepower have proved
themselves best by actual, hard, un-
failing service.
All parts Standard and Interchange-
able. American Bosch Magnetos—
impulse coupling.
3 to 100 H.P.,
’ Ito 6 cylinders,
4-cycle Engines.
HALL BROS., LTD.,
Careening Cove (foot of Willoughby St.)
Milson’s Point, North Sydney, N.S.V#
If any illustration in THE BULLETIN” takes your fancy, write
to the MANAGER, who will quote you price for the original.
1000 SATISFYING SHAVES ,NONE
ISAiTTHIS RAZOR and sharewith thousands of others the
[comfort that shave after shave of satin smooth-
|messbrin_qs to users of THE PLUM RAZOR?
.Pair ih^gresentationCft^e
£5/Post free
Uhroughouf
Guaranteed s Kepf
in order for two years free!
1
CRtIG i AITKEN.6S4 GEORGE ST. SYDNEYJI
HARBOR TOURIST TRIPS
Weather and other circumstances permitting.
Prom Fort Macquarie at 10.15 a.m. and 2.15 p.m.
EVERY TUESDAY AND EVERY THURSDAY.
Fares: All-day, 2/6; Half-day, 1/6, Children, 1/- and 6d.
U « Che<>n reservation at Clifton Gardens Hotel. Afternoon Tea on Board.
SPECIAL TRIP EVERY SUNDAY ~3 No. 6 JETTY, CIRCULAR QUAY
BRO-C /. ,• . Adults, 1/6. Children, 6d.
_ -<6 hnea). Sydney Ferries, Ltd.
Tels.:
dsn 0) ftpupjy
oi hspg
si ll!d V
Place on the tongue
Take a little water - it’s gone!
What could be simpler?
Can be taken at any time
There is no better pill
Than Beecham’s Pills
Their effect is prompt and certain
The results are lasting
Of vegetable origin
They contain no harmful drugs
For sick headache, indigestion
Biliousness, constipation
BEECHAM’S PILLS are
A wonderful medicine
aMea tM wm-
<xtf it nuiat fe
deecAamb
Peter the Black Cat comes back for the New South Wales Firq Brigades.
£.6666 ART UNION
For the Hospitals and Ambulances of the State.
(Sanctioned bv the Attornev-OJeneral.t
3475
Chances
for £1
'V.v
6e> 6
Fellow Art Unionists! I’ve come back! Three months ago I started off scratch to search
for gold to buy the Prizes in the Firemen’s Art Union for the Hospitals and Ambulances. After
days of travelling I neared the Bay of Dogs, and with one bound I landed in New Guinea, where I
rocked the cradle for two months. I’m here again, loaded up with prizes for the Lucky Dog that
looks me in the Green Eye. My Slogan is: “A Ticket in the Art Union is worth Six in the Tram.”
Every Pocket has a silver lining. Try your luck, and turn the lining into gold. Remember me!
I’m Peter the Luck Bringer! I have spoken. «’
£0666 IN PRIZES. FIRST PRIZE A SOLID GOLD HELMET VALUED
AT £lOOO.
Five Motor Prizes Valued at £2871, and 133 other Prizes Valued at £2795.
TICKETS 1/-, SIX TICKETS FOR 5/-, TWELVE TICKETS FOR 10/-,
TWENTY-FIVE TICKETS FOR £l.
In addition, every ticket purchased' entitles the holder to answer the following Shakspearean
Cryptogram, and to participate in a further distribution of £5O in Prizes,
THIS Helmet that shines OUT like burnished gold in times of danger, we FIND was
in use in THE heroic ages, AND it still REMAINS the symbol of deeds of renown. No
matter what the CAUSE may be, when fires break out,, when danger threatens life and
limb, WE look to the men in the golden helmets to EFFECT a save. And so it has come to
pass THAT all OF us NOW look to the Fire Brigades to help the Hospitals. Send your
Shillings along, for they help you and they help the community you live in.
Assemble the 12 words printed in Capital Letters and make them read as a quotation from
“Hamlet,” Act 11. Enclose the answer in an envelope with a shilling for a ticket in the Art Union.
The answers will be placed in a separate barrel, and the drawing will take place immediately after
the Art Union.
FIRST PRIZE FOR THE ANSWER TO THE CRYPTOGRAM, £2O; Second Prize, £5- Five
Consolation Prizes of £1 each; Twenty Consolation Prizes of 10/- each; and Forty Consolation
Prizes of 5/- each.
The Prizes will be awarded according to the way in which the correct answers are drawn out
of the barrel. Every Ticket purchased through the post will carry an answer. Send on separate
slips as many answers as you take tickets, and remember—2s tickets for £l, 12 Tickets for 10/-
6 Tickets for 5/- • ’
For tickets write to the Secretary of the Fire Brigades Art Union, Circular Quay Station Svdncv
N.S.W. Write plainly; state whether Mr., Mrs. or Miss. ’ yaney ’
Drawing takes place at Fire Brigade Headquarters on August 10.
Closing date, July 27.
Send Stamped and Addressed Envelopes for Ticket and Result Slip.
Positively no postponement.
J. J, NEVILLE, Hon Sec.
,v' 6^ 1
9-
#•’
Z
m
s®
f
v#
0°
L&>
&
•' s .*S,rf>'S)'
, <d^o*j!B-
- *£>*


fITIiL €OIB
STUX 001^.
STILL 00114
/STILL COIN.
V STILL COIN
* *°SS 0
: T L S L\s T> T.S T*' $ $;
• aV'vnnvv; N N aW >S
: : fcTx.Tv
I'Sm.L GDlft
/ STILL COIN
i «m* i r;oiM.
S' <sy S S v\v w; xwv xs.S' s v
% &'T>SSS- „ ___
,GG€T
N 1820
>^V£v
W'V^
BORN 1820 STILL IOIIC |F
ORN 1820 STILL Comj
ORN 1820 STILL
ORN 1820 STILL
ORN 1820 STII>
ORN IB2o>^
ORN 18““'
;.tf
is
VSS
ORN
ORN
ORN I
lORN I
ORN I
ORN 18
ORN 18
ORN IB2u
lORN 1820
?Jrs
0* V e
e <Vs
1
'^# ei
f $ I
i Nv vCs'
*ONG
FRONG
VrfZ STRONG
INC STRONG
Going strong
GOING STRONG
ORN 1820 STILL GOING STRONG
ORN 1820 STILL GOING STRONG
ORN 1820 STILL GOING STRONG
ORN 1820 STILL GOING STRONG
ORN 1820 STILL GOING STRONG
ORN 1820 STILL GOING STRONG -
ORN 1820 STILL GOING STRONG
ORN 1820 STILL GOING STRONG
ORN 1820 STILL GOING STRONG
ORN 1820 STILL GOING STRONG
ORN 1820 STILL GOING STRONG
ORN 1820 STILL GOING STRUMA
ORN lB2OpJX H 1
ORN 1820
ORN 1820
ORN 1820
ORN 1820
9820
0
SS&wSSftSKS.
- rzjgt
A
v'Vv
X.
r
&
%
I
77
•rrvfgj*^
&UOJJS $uio$ lias - ozm m0 Q
tfDilVA
aiNMHor
It’s easy to see why
JOHNNIE WALKER'
has the largest sale of
any whisky in the world
