

theGIA
AT THE
REGRAB
AEWCAS
STEELWORKS
o
'//,
%
o\
LIFTS 6 TONS
6
(13,4401 b.)
EACH LOAD
The Iron Ore taken out of the B.H.P. steamers at the Newcastle wharf by this giant grab is transformed by the up-to-date plant
the Newcastle Steel Works into the following
IRON AND STEEL PRODUCTS:
at
PIG IRON
INGOTS
BLOOMS
BILLETS
TEE RAILS
BRIDGE RAILS
TIE PLATES
BEAMS
CLUTCH BAR
CHANNELS
ANGLES
ROUNDS
TEES
SQUARES
FLATS
OCTAGONS
REINFORCING BARS
WIRE RODS
BENZOL—TAR
TOLUOL
SLAG
SOLVENT NAPHTHA
NAPHTHALINE
and SULPHATE OF AMMONIA.
Manufactured by
THE BROKEN HILL PROPRIETARY COMPANY LTD.
MINE OWNERS AND STEEL MASTERS,
Iron and Steel Works: Newcastle, N.S.W. Ironstone Quarries: Iron Knob, S.A. Silver-Lead Mine: Broken Hill, N.S.W.
HEAD OFFICE: 422 LITTLE COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE. Branch Offices: Sydney, Adelaide, London.
The Bulletin
Vol. 48.—N0. 2484.
d
Thursday, September 22, 1927.
Price 6d.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.


\V7RITE for the 1927 New Library Cata-
logue, which is now ready and will be
sent post free with full terms and particulars
on application to
DYMOCK’S BOOK ARCADE. LTD.,
42S George Street. Sydney.
•/>
0*
Obtainable
from every
radio dealer
i n A u s-
tralia.
V/lr{2L£ss 5 UPPJJ 25.
Say P. M
ana ifou sail
R
ure
Hfiusic
Your radio dealer won’t have a fit.
He’ll just ask you, or, if you wish,
advise you what type to use and
bring you a Mullard P.M. Valve
with the wonderful P.M. Filament.
Every Mullard P.M. Filament is built on
the rock bottom foundation of mechanical
strength, low current consumption, gen-
erous emission surface. There is a P.M.
Valve to suit every holder in your set,
but there is only one filament —
THE P^M*
For 2-volt accumulator
P.M.-l ILF 0.1 amp. 13/6
P.M.-l L.F 0.1 amp. 13/6
P.M.-la (Resist Gap.) 0.1 amp. 13/6
P.M.-2 (Power) 0.15 amp. 13/6
For 4-volt accumulator or 3 dry cells
P.M.-8 (General Purpose) 0.1 amp. 13/6
P.M.-3a (Resist Cap.) 0.1 amp. 13/6
P.M.-4 (Power) 0.1 amp. 13/6
For 6-volt accumulator or 4 dry cells
P.M.-5 (General Purpose) .... 0.1 amp. 13/6
P.M.-5b (Res. Capacity) 0.1 amp. 13/6
P.M.-6 (Power) 0.1 amp. 13/6
Super power valves for last L.F. stage
P.M.-254 (4 volts) 0.24 amps. 15/-
P.M.-256 (6 volts) 0.25 amps. 15/-
All Milliard Valves are made at the Milliard Works.
UaVuirn, London, England.
Milliard
THE * MASTER, • VALVE
Milliard P.M. Valves are British Made. ARKS. 6.A.
“BUY BRITISH.”
Advt. The Milliard Wireless Service Co., Milliard House, Denmark St., London, W.C., Eng .
in “THE BULLETIN’ takes your fancy, write
R, who wi 11 quote you price for the original.
h
a
m
%
rs
The morning shave is never a trial if you use a PLUM,
the razor that shaves close, clean and sweetly smooth,
no matter how wiry your beard, however tender your
skin.
Black Vulcanite Handle . . 12/6 each.
Xylonite Ivory Grain Handle 15/6 „
Real Ivory Handle . . . . 21/- „
Satin-lined Double Case free with pair of razors.
Seven Day PLUM Razor Sets:—
Black 85/-; Xylo, 100/-; Ivory 140/-
per set of 7 Razors.
Each razor set ready for use and guaranteed and keDt
in order for two years free of charge.
PLUM Razors are supplied in two widths; fin. and fin.
-Post-paid Prices
PLUM Razor Strops, ready for use, 10/6, 12/6, 15/6
easch. Post Free.
CRAIG AND AITKEN
GEORGE ST SYDNEY
KILL THE TYPHOID FLY.
“MUSTDIE”
THE NON-POISONOUS POW-
DER, is Infallible in Destroying
all Insect Pests, but is Abso-
lutely Harmless to Canaries,
Dogs, Poultry; in fact, all
Animals and Man.
NOT A GERMAN POWDER.
Sold Everywhere. Price 1/-
a
m
wmm
■
MUSTDIE '
BOUSE
FLIES
ARE
POTENT
CARRIERS
OF
DISEASE.
The Red Page
A Door Opened
For a long time people interested in Aus-
tralian writing have wondered despairingly
why novels ("the development of character
by narrative”) were the Cinderellas of the
art family. Painters could sell their pic-
tures, sometimes .handsomely, and could at
any rate hope for an income from their
chosen task. Novelists, though, have had
to earn their living from casual journalism;
which is as if a painter should earn his by
window-dressing. For painters there arrived
also the Archibald Prize; only one man
could win it, but its existence gave emphasis
to portrait-painting as a whole.
Well, for novelists there is now the solid
Bulletin Prize, extending fortunately over
a term of years. Judges are fallible, acci-
dents happen, and one year’s test would
not have been enough. The outlook is now
suddenly cleared: not that everyone can
win a prize, but that Australian novel-
writing is at last, “on the map.” The exist-
ence of the Bulletin Prize will not only
crown some existent novels; it will evoke
many more.
What circumstances have hindered our
novelists hitherto? And how will the Bul-
letin Prize alter them? The circumstances
were that the Australian novelist took his
pen in hand to write something not pri-
marily intended for an Australian audience.
At every point he was forced to ask him-
self: “But what will an English reader say
to this? Would an English publisher offer
this to his readers?” The questions were
not, direct and clear like that, but they have
laid a paralysis on many a writer, causing
the absurd introduction of some lay figure
from overseas into an otherwise sincere
book, or distorting a solid bush novel into
a Wild West scenario, in hopes of some
roundabout, “success.” Contrast this with
the conditions that produced some' of our
few good books—“. Robbery Under Arms,”
for instance, written simply for publication
in the Sydney Mail, to be read by people
who knew what Bokhewood described; or
look at, Lawson’s naive stories, assured of
their readers’ sympathy. The Bulletin
Prize will give a writer some of this needed
assurance, making it as natural for him to
describe Australia, as he knows it, to an
understanding audience, as it was for Knut
Hamsun to set his Nobel Prize novel in a
primitive yet contemporary Norway, with-
out apology. Such a book may later on
have an outside appeal; but it first needs
to be written without the nervousness that
leads to falsification. The strength, again,
of the best Irish novels and plays, distin-
guishing them from the fake ones, has been
just that they were facing an Irish audience
first. So when our writers are allowed, as a
normal thing, to write with confidence of the
life about them, there' will come a new
tone into our literature.
Then there is the matter of distribution.
A few, a very few, of what we can call
genuine novels have crept past the barriers
of English publishers and been put between
covers. The' publishers tremble: will such
fare please their English readers? Doubt-
fully, at present. One of the most distin-
guished English critics wrote recently in a
letter:—
“I am sorry, very sorry, about the lack
of support for Australian fiction here. The
fact is that our public is insular-minded.”
That is, English publishers find they can-
not distribute genuine Australian books in
England. There is a potential public for
such books in Australia itself, but it is not
tapped. These sincere books are hardly
obtainable, certainly not distinctively mar-
keted as an interpretation of our own life.
Australia, from the English publishers’ point
of view, is the place where you dump all
sorts of remainders, to be sold largely in
drapery-store basements Well, the dis-
tribution of Australian books here should be
our own affair. We need not begin by ask-
ing the English public to change its atti-
tude; what we hope to do is first to develop
an alternative attitude of our own, an atti-
tude expectant of good Australian books.
The Bulletin Prize will help in this pro-
blem of distribution by its conspicuous
“crowning” of a given book. The book’s
later publication in book form here and
overseas would follow' easily; also its re-
publication in the cinema. More than that,
the crowning will establish a healthy pre-
cedent that books can be created and pro-
duced here. The new Prize seems likely to
afford just the right kind of necessary
publicity.
The whole Prize scheme is a great move
forward. While we welcome anything that
seems likely to save our writers from star-
vation or from being driven into other
crafts, we feel that the whole importance of
the plan goes deeper than the winners’
pockets. It ought to mean the actual pro-
duction of some good and lasting books
that otherwise would have existed only in
pipe-dreams. We need such books; every
country does. Indeed, when Solomon com-
plained that there was no end of the making
of books, he was not thinking of his father's
Psalms nor of his own matchless song; I
am afraid he. meant the frowsy, spiritless
“garvices” read by his thousand bored and
overlapping wives. Of shoddy books we can
always get enough. The Bulletin's scheme,
to fulfil its true purpose, will concern itself
with evoking books that have genuine
quality. Of the making of good novels let
us hope there will now be a confident
beginning.
NETTIE PALMER.
Penny Colored, Tuppence Plain
Charles Garvice collected his famous
string of hunters and Harold Bell Wright
his equally famous million dollars by the
sole quality of belief in their job, all other
equipment being denied to these authors,
x oung Beverley Nichols, making hay while
ihe sun shines on “Twenty Five” and an
abundance of piquant journalism, has missed
that important point. He doesn’t believe
m the reality of, a single character or
thought in Crazy Pavements (Cape;
Dy mock's). In royalty-hunting, the formula
of lords and ladies and sin is by tradition
a good one; but it is fatal to let the
readei’s know that the author uses and yet
despises it. Handsome, unspoiled young
Brian Elme, a struggling journalist, by
chance enters a particularly hectic pocket
of London society, all the inhabitants of
the pocket being beautiful or degenerate or
both. Brian, pathetically unsullied, is reft
oi his young innocence and goes back to
work. That is the plot; but the plot doesn’t
matter. The color is the thing—good thick
color made up of luscious Michael-Arlen,
slabs of the simpler Oscar-Wilde with a
shot or two of Noel-Coward and Max-Beer-
bohm, and an occasional dusting of Beverley-
Nichols as an afterthought. Lady Julia,
who achieves the disillusioning of the in-
credibly stupid Brian, changes her entire
personality as each scene demands. Lord
William Motley lounges ready-made out of
“The Happy Hypocrite” and “Dorian
Gray,” is dreadfully daring in dialogue, and
lounges back, black with sin. The ‘Hon.
Maurice Cheyne, Lady Anne Hardcastle the
nymphomaniac, pandars, Italian valets,
strikingly handsome footmen—these are all
bits of color mixed so thick that they stand
alone. Which is as well, there being nothing
behind them. It seems to come at you in
satire, in the author’s occasional realisation
that he is writing the book himself; but
that only gives the royalty-hunting away,
exposing the lack of belief in the job. The
book wouldn’t be worthy of .comment but
for the fact that “Twenty Five” did believe
in its impertinent job.
The Ilurcotts (John Lane; Dymock’s) is
content to be plainer, if not to reject a pro-
fitable formula. Muriel Hinp does not quite
keep the faith in her job exemplified by
“Earth” and “April Panhasard” of years
ago, but she is enough of an artist not to
Jose it when she is really at work. The
formula is to set a group of pleasant well-
bred characters on the stage to defeat vice
and see that virtue is rewarded. They do
this very ingeniously—too ingeniously, occa-
sionally. But again the plot doesn’t matter.
The truth and the firm, healthy substance of
the characters are the thing. Touch by touch,
w T ord by apparently casual word, Hurcott,
Mrs. Hurcott, the girls Penrose and Abbie,
Barbara Sheriff, Nick Marlow and a score
of other characters come firmly to life as
the easy, gracious story flow's on. Hurcott
is not difficult perhaps; the charming
middle-aged man of strong vitality who
drinks too much and will not believe that
youth has gone; nor Mrs. Hurcott, who
Jives and dies in his patient service. But
the girls, the reticent English girls, are
another matter; that they can blush and
smile in their dewy lifelike truth in a 1927
novel is real vision. So is the gradual
subtlety of Barbara Sheriff, liurcott’s sec-
retary, who slowly undermines the house-
hold and brings all the loot into her own
hands. While these people were growing on
her paper the author’s faith in her job was
complete. And her faith in life does not
fail her, life decent and fresh with hope,
not tinkering with pathology and perversion
nor cynical with post-war despair. One page
of the Hurcotts’ bloom is worth a dozen of
the recent literary novels, I think, formula
or no formula.
Stephen Graham in Midsummer Music
(Hurst and Blackett; Dymock’s) is quite
plain. He concedes nothing to our as-vou-
like-it wishes; this is entirely as he likes it,
and. we can take it or leave it. The result
is magic in its clear enchantment. A page
cr two in a cheap Paris cafe introduces the
leading characters in curt sentences; and we
are in a village on the coast of Dalmatia.
In another five pages we are a Croat pea-
sant whose forefathers have lived in this
Village for generations. Felix Morrison, the
solemn Englishman, looks at us with a dour
half-wistful eye, until the midsummer music
of our true fairy-tale has him in its bond-
age. We bathe, we dance, we eat and drink,
we play mediaeval games in the Garden of
Love, we take our fill of music—all this in
the bleak abrupt sentences which deny our
rights to any formula or traditional con-
sideration. Ishtvanka, the statuesque model
and hopelessly beloved of Resich, one of
the other Croat peasants (who is also a
sculptor of some renown in Paris and simi-
lar dull parts of the world), is here, penniless
and beautiful. Slavitsa and Rositsa, native
peasants, are here on summer leave from
their stenography in Zagreb the capital. Pro-
fessor Span din, of Zagreb and Vienna,
Paris, London, is here, but not profes-
soriaily ; merely as a Croat summering in
our music on the rocky shore and the vine-
warm uplands. He is responsible for the
(Continued on page 5.)


Anthony Horderns'
Agricultural Implements
SnatapUMmoi
XT 342.
Unchokable Disc Root Cutter.
The Unchokable Disc Root Cutter is of the famous Bentall manu-
facture, is very strongly constructed, and from the best materials
procurable. Has four unbreakable legs, with feet to bolt on to floor.
W.P.M. Finger Cutter, -f x 1£ inches £lO/10/-
W.P.H. Root Cutter, I -|in. grater £9/17/-
Ransomes’ Improved Chain Harrows.
These Harrows are useful for cleaning land, dressing meadows,
covering seeds and reducing clods. Being made entirely of diagonal
wrought-iron links, working loosely in each other, they have the
property of cleaning themselves from all accumulation of soil.
Stocked in the following sizes:
5 feet x 7 feet 6 inches, £4/5/-; 6 feet x 7 feet 6 inches, £5;
9 feet x 7 feet 6 inches, £6/7/6; 10 feet x 7 feet 6 inches, £7/18/6.
XT 544
XTSSE
XT552. No. 16 Single-Wheel Hoe. The No.
16 is lighter to handle than the Double-Wheel
Hoe, and the equipment enables the gardener
to give both deep and shallow cultivation, open
and close furrows, hill up plants, etc. Equip-
ment: large garden plough, pair of 6-inch hoes,
three steel cultivator teeth,
one-, three- and five-tooth -P Oi 1 film
rakes, leaf lifter IV|
XTSSO. Planet Junior Fire Fly Garden
Plough. Opens a furrow up to six inches wide
and three inches deep deeper by going in the
furrow a second time. It is valuable for open-
ing furrows for large seeds, such as potatoes,
and for covering them up. It can be used for
cultivating by ploughing away the soil from
the plants, covering the weeds, and then throw-
ing the soil back on the plants after the weeds
have died. The chicken raiser can use this
for ploughing up his chicken run, nni/i
keeping the soil in sanitary condition O
Anthony Horderns
have an extensive
range of Agricultural
Implements. Only those
of reliable manufacture
are stocked, and as
prices are the lowest
possible the utmost
service and value are
assured.
Anthony Horderns’ are
sole agents in N.S.W.
for John Deere, also
Ransomes, Sims and
Jeffries, Ltd., Agricul-
tural Implements;
“Wiard” Ploughs and
Spading Harrows; the
“ Morgan ” Spading
Harrow; also agents
for Planet Junior Farm
and Garden Tools.
XT 55 Z>
XT553. Planet Junior, No. 8, Horse Hoe and
Cultivator Combined. Has a steel wheel that
does not clog; a frame that is longer and higher
than others; steel standards that are so attached
as to both brace the cultivator and withstand
strain; levers that operate quickly and easily;
a depth regulator. Equipment includes four
3xB inch cultivator steels, one 4xB inch cul-
tivator steel, two 6-inch
hillers, one 7-inch shovel, all
£5/2/6
especially hardened
No. 7 Horse Hoe and Cultivator, same as No.
8, but without depth gauge £4/17/6
XT549. No. 4 Hill and Drill Seeder and
Single-Wheel Hoe combined. The No. 4
plants practically all vegetable seed, the index
is accurate, the hopper holds 2% quarts. Culti-
vating attachments; large garden plough, three
steel cultivator teeth, one pair _£» AI -l /
6-inch hoes, one leaf lifter.. *3|“
<£s
1
m
a
-
XT 543
Ransomes’ “Defiance” Disc Ploughs have a coupled form of steerage,
the steering of the front furrow wheel and the hind furrow wheel being
effected simultaneously by the one steering lever of the p ough. 1 his
enables the plough to be steered by one leVer either to the right or
to the left. The advantage of this arrangement is complete power over
the steerage of the plough when turning at the headland.
Widths and depths of each:
o;. /p „p plough Furrow in Inches. Average \\ eight. Price.
1 Furrow . . 9to 12 wide x6to 10 deep . . 8001 b.. . £2o
2 Furrow , . 9to 1 2 wide x6to 10 deep . . 9801 b.. . £35
3 Furrow .. 9to 1 1 wide x 6 to 10 deep .. 11301 b... £4O
John Deere
No. 226 Com Drills.
John Deere’s Corn Drill. Simple in construction to a degree never
before acquired in any machine of its class. It has an accurate rop
and positive chain drive. Frame is made of two pieces of high carbon
steel, being well braced to prevent any warping or twisting. Drive
wheel, made entirely of steel, 12 inches in diameter. The drive
mechanism has a spring eccentric clutch for throwing the drill in and
out of gear. Natural cell-fill edge delivery, seed plates give great
accuracy of drop. Three sprockets give three different drilling dis-
tances with each seed plate. Tip-over hopper makes it easy to
change plates or empty the hopper. With Fertiliser £ 1 0/1 f)/*
Attachments
With Pea Attachments, £l/15/- extra.
Anthony Horderns’
SYDNEY. Box No, 2712 C C.PX).
Postal A ddress.


Stamina /
the First Essential /
m
J
HA
S:
- -
.. \
/II \
. * .L-
S*>
STUDEBAKER has built into
“The Director” Duplex Tourer,
stamina and durability which almost
defy time —and ensure years of
smooth, dependable performance,
perfect roadability and economical
transportation.
No sudden rain storm catches the driver of
the improved Studebaker Duplex Tourer
unprepared. Roller enclosures, concealed
in the sturdy steehframed hood, may be
lowered instantly to shut out rain, wind and
dust completely
If you seek the utmost in a car—the thrill of
open-car motoring and the comfort of closed
car protection whenever you need it, see this
new-type car—a two-fold convenience at the
astoundingly low price of £393.
The New Improved Studebaker
“The Director” Duplex Tourer
F.O.R. Sydney.
NOW £393
Australian and New Zealand Dis'ributors :
NEW SOUTH WALES:
The Studebaker Corporation of Australasia Limited , Sydney «
VICTORIA:
Turner Bros., 396-400 Swanston St.,
Melbourne.
QUEENSLAND t
Canada Cyc e & Motor Agency (Q)
Ltd., Creek &. Adelaide Sts., Brisbane.
WEST AUSTRALIA:
Sydney Atkinson Motor L.d.»
41-45 I'ier Street, Perth.
TASMANIA:
Island Motors Proprietary, Ltd.
76 Murray Street, Hobart.
NEW ZEALAND :
Adams Ltd., 152-154 High Street,
Christchurch.
Local Dealers at all important towns.
Studebaker’s Service to Stukebaker and Erskine owners is unequalled in Australia.
f
WMBSB
“The Director” Duplex Tourer
ĥ
STUDEBAKER’S SERVICE TO STUDEBAKER AND ERSKINE OWNERS IS UNEQUALLED IN AUSTRALIA.


50 'f*.
7
w
U
I*o
. ,
The new
“MADE - TO - MEASURE
??
now on English lines
There is a new development in Australian Tailoring.
The. excellent cut, the faultless style, that have hitherto
been exclusive to English tailoring have now been
achieved by David Jones’ and incorporated in their
latest “ made-to - measures.” The rH /H
price range starts as low as .. .. A 5 */ * /
Materials: including the most important English
ones —rough and smooth Tweeds, checked, striped or
plain — fine Worsteds —that have never been seen in
Sydney before. Write for patterns.
Colors: Hazel tans, plum colors, police blue, pigeon
grey, spring grey, and all the popular colors.
DAVID JONES’
For Service —Sydney
presence here of Felix Morrison, the Shak-
spearean expert who looked so coldly at us
for his first few minutes.
There is no plot; no one’s destiny is ac-
complished, unless it be Ishtvanka’s, who
surrenders to a matriarchal tenderness for
the wounded Spandin; and that is only for
mockery of Resich. This is midsummer
music pointing no moral and following no
direction save that of Stephen Graham’s
vision.
This is the high art of creation in words.
Because Stephen Graham will not allow us
to interfere with his job he can take us
into the holy-of-holies of his art’s expres-
sion. Whereas the heart and will are com-
monly the limit of the reach of lettei’s, he
comes near to showing us the gay souls of
his peasants.
HILARY LOFTING.
The Dilettante in Literature
With every word except two in Louis
Esson’s article (R.P. 7/7/’27) on the status
of Australian literature I find myself in
perfect accord. Except the Press Club there
is not, in Sydney at any rate, any organisa-
tion which has for its aim the advancement
of literature and the obtaining for the
writer of a higher position in Australian
public estimation. It is very doubtful if
the Press Club itself has ever achieved any-
thing towards this end, being a purely social
rendezvous and a means for a member to
obtain a business address that may sound to
a stranger more imposing than the actual
domicile of the addressee. The Australian
Journalists’ Association fulfils the same
function with the added plank in its plat-
form that it is out to secure better terms
for its members, as journalists, by way of
awards and so forth. It does not operate
for the recognition and improvement of the
art of writing.
Though Esson refers mostly to an organi-
sation for improving the status of the writer,
I take it what he really aims at is some-
thing that will not only do that, but will
mainly operate to exalt the status of local
literature in general. If the latter can be
done, the former will follow as a natural
result. That is why I quarrel with two words
only in his article; they occur almost at
the end and I put them in italics —Esson
says we require “a body of real professional
writers, dilettanti barred, who would offici-
ally, and pugnaciously where necessary,
represent Australian literature.”
Why should the dilettante be barred
when the whole history of literature points
to the non-professional as the individual
who has done most for the art of writing,
and when, moreover, the essential factor of
“being in the mood” is present while the
dilettante writes and almost always deplor-
ably absent when the professional does
his work?
For anyone or for any group of men and
women desiring to elevate the status of
Australian Literature, there is a modern
example in the Irish Literary Renaissance,
probably the greatest and most far-reaching
and most abiding movement ever carried
through on a national basis. As in the case
of the Abbey Theatre, the literary revival
derived most of its driving force and in-
spiration from amateurs, or dilettanti —call
them which you will. T. W. Rolleston, to
take the revivalist whom I personally knew
most intimately, was a confirmed literary
dilettante, and the idea of accepting money
for his writing was almost repugnant to
him. Yet he was a co-founder of the Irish
Literary Society and its first honorary
secretary in London. Both the Irish
dramatic movement and the Literary Re-
naissance, which were more or less contem-
porary and supplementary to each other,
bred professional writers, actors and play-
wrights later on, but it was the amateur
who really guided them through to success.
Rolleston was also honorary secretary of
the India Society in London which pub-
lished the Ajunta Frescoes and “discovered”
Sir Rabindranath Tagore. Even his Times
and Express work could not brand Rolles-
ton a professional, nor could the fact that
he accepted payment for other work on
much the same scale as that which Milton
received for “Paradise Lost”; he was a
dilettante always and depended on other
sources for nine-tenths of his income. Yet
Louis Esson would not have him in his
proposed organisation; probably he would
not have Tagore either.
As a further example, one need look no
further than The Bulletin itself. The pro-
portion of dilettante and professional writing
that an average Bulletin contains is doubt-
less known in George-street North. I can
only guess that, if anything, the former pre-
dominates; yet Esson would rule out this
amateur writing as a qualification for
membership of an Australian Authors’
Association. I venture to say that the
dilettanti could contribute just as much to
the brains and success of such an organi-
sation as could the professional. If. how-
ever, Esson’s object is to screw a higher
rate per line out of publishers and others,
then he will get only half-hearted support
from the freelance and none at all from me.
The sense of achievement well achieved is
still literature’s greatest reward and places
the genuine article superior to mere con-
siderations of pounds, shillings and pence.
The amateur and the professional must
work together in every literary revival, or
the result will fail completely to be repre-
sentative.
COLUMBA.
Turgenev
It is an amazing and in some way surely
a significant thing that Russia, the most
uncivilised and illiterate of all the great
European nations, should have produced
at practically the same time the three men
who have strong claims to be accounted the
greatest of all the world’s novelists. A
strange fact, too, is that fundamentally the
three men are utterly different. This is a
thing that stands out in Avraham Yarmolm-
sky’s just published voluminous Turgenev:
The Man, His Art and His Age. There
Turgenev is accused by one who knew him
of “spiritual and physical flabbiness; Dostoy-
evsky is called by Turgenev “a vicious
Christian”; and Tolstoy says of himself
that his mind was a cage in which a cat and
a dog kept unwilling company.
Tolstoy had the mind of an artist and the
heart of a reformer. In most of his
earlier novels, “War and Peace and
“Anna Karenina,” for instance, the reformer
can be seen at work, buk the artist is
supreme. In his later works, such as
“Resurrection” and “The Kreutzer Sonata,”
the artist can be seen doing splendid work,
but now the reformer is supreme. It was
very different with Turgenev. He had the
heart of a reformer, too, and the mind of
an artist; but with him all through his life
the artist was unquestionably supreme. He
sympathised with all reform movements and
all reformers, but when he set out to depict
either reform movements or reformers, the
man in him was firmly set aside by the
artist. Dostoyevsky, the other member of
the trio, had the heart of a reformer and
the mind of an artist, too, but with him the
reformer was so unquestionably supreme
that the artist was only allowed to exist
as an instrument to forward the reformer’s
propaganda.
Tolstoy was disgusted with Turgenevs
lack of conviction on any subject but
literature. Turgenev’s detached way of
looking at things seems to have driven
Dostoyevsky to the very verge of real
insanity. Turgenev could admire Tolstoy’s
sureness of himself and his convictions and
Dostoyevsky’s fanatic sincerity, but he
could not help being contemptuous of their
intellectuality when it came to acceptance
of the dogmas on which so much ol their
convictions and faith were based. It was
simply because Turgenev’s mind was always
supreme that he was weak where the others
were strong. However much his instincts
urged him to do so, he could not accept
anything without analytical examination.
It was Dostoyevsky’s unquestioned faith
that drove him to the very gallows’ edge,
and from there to undergo ten years of
dreadful hardship and privation in Siberia.
It was Tolstoy’s much less firmly based
and much more questioned faith that was
always goading him on to do what Dostoy-
evsky did. In the end he did give up many
of the creature comforts of life and was to
a certain extent actively revolutionary.
Both Dostoyevsky and Tolstoy were men of
action, but there was no action about, Tur-
genev. He was too introspective, saw
too far into the beyond. Yarmolin-
sky writes of him that he lived “like a
character in one of his novels, in a room
walled with mirrors, and created most of
his heroes in his own image.” Every one
of his heroes is more or less a living Hamlet.
They can all talk, think, examine, but they
cannot believe and accept, and when the
necessity for action comes they invariably
fail. Turgenev was always ready to give
admiration to “whole-hearted, vigorous,
disciplined men.” So was Hamlet. He
looked up to Fontibras, who could find
quarrel in a straw when honor was at stake.
And Turgenev was always looking for the
original of a hero he wanted to portray—
the man of action who could lead Russia
to better things. But in men of action of
the Tolstoy or Dostoyevsky type, Turgenev
could not see the saviours of Russia.
Neither could he see such saviours in those
active revolutionaries who were friends of
his earlier days, and whose sincerity always
won his admiration —Herzen and Bakunin.
Turgenev’s novels probably reflect their
author’s being more than do the works of
any other writer. Those people who have
read his fiction will meet a man they know
well when they read this book of Yar-
molinsky’s. Through all Turgenev’s work
runs a note of sadness and futility. They,
as far as passion and tragedy are concerned,
might be said to be written in a minor
key. And Turgenev seems to have lived
his life in a minor key. His love for Mme.
Viadot, the operatic singer, lasting as it did
for nearly 40 years, seems to have been
more a doglike devotion than any fiercely
passioned thing. His stories are nearly all
reminiscent and have a suggestion of lav-
ender and faded ribbons about them. There
is pathos in all of them, but his great
artistic gifts of discernment and expression
prevent the beautiful from ever becoming
merely sentimental.
The strange thing about these minor-
keyed works is that so many of them exer-
cised powerful political influence. When he
was a very small boy he was deeply
touched by two serfs coming to say good-
bye to his mother, who had had them
sentenced to banishment to Siberia because
they did not bow to her when she passed.
He lived to see the liberation of the serfs,
and his book, “A Sportsman’s Sketches,” un-
doubtedly helped in the bringing about of
that liberation. Works of his such as “On
the Eve,” “Smoke,” “Fathers and Children”
and “Virgin Soil” were politically influential
too, but always more in tke way of under-
mining with scepticism than by any definite
way-pointing. His heroes coulu point out
what should not be. They could define
the wrong, but not the right. It is only
men of limited intellect who cshp be';, sure of
the right. Their sureness gifes tliitm force
and conviction and they set; out to right
the wrong that the sceptic ha§; pointed out.
In the last paragraph of “On Efe,” one
character in the book asks another a ques-
tion regarding the future of ; .;Kh'ssia. That
other, a character %reat slow-
moving Russia, twitches ifs fingers by .way
of answer and gives an Enigmatical stare
into the far distanced' That far distance is
to-day. Did Turgenev foresee the chaos
that all the rolling, twisting, stirring of the
Russia of his time indicated? There are
suggestions alßthrough his works that lead
one to believe that he did.
ALAN D. MICKLE.
A Satchel of Books
The Crimson Trail, by Charles Wesley
Sanders (Howard Watt). Concerns guns,
“guys” and a tall, strong girl named Annie.
A Lot of Talk, by Helen Asliton (Benn).
Talk, perhaps, but good—a novel written in
a quiet tone and free from the purple patches
and erotic flashes of so much modern Action.
Leaves a sense of restfulness.
Jix, by R. Raleigh-King (Cecil Palmer).
“Jix was not really pretty —she was alive
and that was all that mattered.” How much
alive takes many entertaining pages to tell
and involves the unravelling of an ingenious
but highly improbable situation.
An Indian Day, by Edward Thompson
(Knopf; Robertson and Mullens). Pur-
ports to be a counterblast to that brilliant
and well proportioned study of the Anglo-
Indian. E. M. Forster’s “Passage to India.”
Viewed on its own merits, it is an interest-
ing work, full of the color and complexity of
Hindustan, but as a counterblast it is a
squib.
The Senior Partner, by W. E. Graham
(Watson and Ferguson, Brisbane). Mr.
Graham lias no time for the Labor socialist
school. “What is wanted in this work-a-day
old world of ours is not a change to some
new and untried economic and industrial
system, but an earnest endeavor to make the
best of the one we have.” The object of the
booK is to present fairly certain aspects of
the problem in a simple form, and the author
does it usefully.
Music, Classical, Romantic and Modern,
by Eaglefield Hull (Dent). The author
whimsically dedicates his work “To my wife,
whose lack of interest in this book has been
my constant despair.” Students to whom
ir does appeal will find a very comprehensive
view of the subject. The historical lateness
of musical development in comparison with
the other arts is attributed to the fact that
the musician works in sound; and sound,
though a physical phenomenon, is not some-
thing physically substantial. So far as the
present age is concerned the author regards
it as “one of disruption, disintegration and
transition” in the field of music. “But it
does indeed appear tliat this phase is pass-
ing” and time will carry us to a higher
plane. '
Coronel and the Falklands, by John Irving
(Philpot). On Nov. 5, 1914, the British
Admiralty issued a statement to the effect
that a naval action had taken place off the
Chilean coast in which a German squadron
had defeated Admiral Cradock and sunk or
severely damaged certain of the naval units
under his command. The official statement
concluded with the words "effective measures
have been taken to deal with the situation.
It is with these measures and their effective-
ness, in the hands of Vice-Admiral Sturdee,
that Mr. Irving deals, his book being the
forerunner of a film in which the events
related by him will be depicted. A vivid
narrative.
The Thunderer, by E. Barrington (Har-
rap; Robertson and Mullens). The favor of
the reading public extended to Mrs. Barring-
ton’s previous literary blends of history and
fiction will no doubt await this latest novel.
The romance of Napoleon and Josephine has
already been used for dramatic purposes,
but the stage calls for broad effects only,
whereas the art of the novelist lies in
weaving together the more subtle and delicate
strands of life. A work into which fiction
is avowedly introduced for purposes of
character and plot disarms the critical his-
torian, but, broadly speaking, Mrs. Barring-
ton has preserved the salient historical facts
in her novel without sacrificing the ends of
romance to which they are directed.
The Boom of IS9o—and Now, by E. O. G.
Shann (,Cornstalk Co.). The Professor of
Economics in the University of W.A. calls
to Australia, as The Bulletin has been
doing for years past, to "put her house in
order lest drought and falling prices for
wool and wheat overtake us again.” After
giving a graphic outline of the conditions
leading up to the financial crisis 1891-93, the
Professor indicates certain analogies between
the boom period 1888 to 1890, leading up to
disaster, and present economic conditions.
He sees one common source of our past
and of our probably impending financial
troubles. “They are all,” he says, “traceable
to the parallel growth of external debt.”
The first feature common to the 1888-90
period and that of to-day is “the slackening
in the rate of expansion in production,” and
the second “the great growth in Customs
revenue.” Other analogies are found in our
tendency to increasingly rely on the influx of
invested and borrowed moneys from outside,
“to strain for additional loans by piling
Pel ion on Ossa and pledging our resources
by a second mortgage to America.” The
writer admits the big contrast between the
late ’eighties and the present in that we are
now enjoying good prices for wool and wheat;
but. as he points out, “the level of world
prices may not prove stable. Wholesale
prices have been falling steadily of late,
and we cannot afford to mortgage every fresh
margin of our living fund. Palling prices
and the cessation of oversea credit wrought
a painful havoc on the living fund of Aus-
tralia in the ’nineties. A like combination
of circumstances w’ould do so again.”


OINTMENT
FOR THE,
SK<N AND SCALP
(uticuraL
niNTMFMT
VOINT.ME.NT
lIEH* ( \ r< : 3 > x • n,t
J&ZnA
The Family Friend
Nothing purer, sweeter or more
effective for eczemas, rashes, itch-
ings and irritations. Bathe with
Cuticura Soap and hot water to free
the pores of impurities and follow
with a gentle application of Cuti-
cura Ointment to soothe and heal.
Soap ls.,Talcum 15.3 d., Ointment Is. and
2s. For sample Soap and Ointment ad-
dress; “R.Towns & Co., Sydney, N.S. W.”
viNIS* - ' Cuticura Shaving Stick Is. 6d.
RUPTURE
is Dangerous
This condition, no mat-
ter how slight, should
never be neglected.
OUR IMPROVED AIR CUSHION APPLIANCE
is the latest scientific discovery for
this complaint, and is guaranteed to
hold a ru-ture firmly and comfort-
ably under all conditions. We give
vou a straight deal and offer A FREE
TRIAL WITH EVERY APPLIANCE
that we send out. Write at once for
FREE ILLUSTRATED CATALOG.
WINSLOW & CO., 104 Queen St., Melbourne, V.
mm
f J »J 3 •
T
m,
JEJ*
These marvellous instruments are becoming
extremely popular. They are easily mastered,
and it is possible to play tunes after very little
practice. Unexcelled for dance playing. The
tone is full, rich and sonorous. Finished attrac-
tively in white celluloid and enamel.
Several Models to choose from —
No. 474 with 31 treble keys C 1 C /1 f)
fully chromatic, and 16 basses *" **/ *
No. 479, 34 treble keys fully chromatic,
48 basses. Price £27 10s.
No. 480, 39 treble keys fully chromatic,
48 basses. Price £48.
No. 482, 41 treble keys fully chromatic.
80 basses. Price £37 10.
No. 483, 41 treble keys fully chromatic,
210 basses. Price £61 10.
Each instrument furnished with shoulder strap
and comes in an extra stout reinforced carrying
trunk.
Freight extra Descriptive list on request.
f OBTAINABLE FROM ANV MUSIC.DEALER.
OR DIRECT FROM
A. P. SYKES
XIX Lit Collins St.
cMelbourne.
When ordering pleare mention tfar J|
I
II
SOLID!
Neat-looking and surpris-
ingly comfortable as well!
This Abbey Cossack has a
half-inch, double sole. The
upper, too, is double thick-
ness—having an inner lining
of soft leather.
Specially arched so that it
laces easily over the instep,
with a tongue attached by
pliant flaps that keep out
dust and grass-seeds, this
boot is ideal for the rough-
est wear.
Order by Post
Supplied in black or tan
—the tan at two prices. In
all cases the soles are of the
same grade, the higher-
priced tan boot having an
upper of special quality.
TAN
WILLOW
/ 39/6 and
'-45/- per pair
BLACK
37/6 P er P asr
ABBEY
Estabiished over SO years,
313 George St. & 224 Pitt St.,
SYDNEY.
L3B.
HOTEL
METROPOLE,
. . . SYDNEY.
Opposite Union Club and Two minutes
from Entrance to Domain and Circular
Quay.
TARIFF from 18/6 per day, or apart-
ments may be secured separately by the
day from 6/6 and upwards. Cards of Tariff
and all particulars posted on application
to The Manager.
If any illustration in “THE BULLETIN” takes your fancy, write
to the MANAGER, who will quote you price for the original.
■
m
I
si
i
euKßett
- V *
I he Cigar of generous size and weight.
Supreme in flavor and aroma.
At all good hotels and
tobacconists.
6d.
oo« o
100
Box prices:—
Cigars, 5/6 (posted 6/-)
„ 12/- (posted 12/6)
23/- (posted 23/9)
„ 45/- (posted 46/- )
Sampler Box, containing 2 Cigars,
1/- Post Free.
CRAIG AND AITKEN
SYDNEY
DISTRIBUTORS FOR
CLUB REIL CIGAR FACTORY
VABOUS VEBSE
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Confession.
As I came by the wharves this day
I saw a girl stand laughing there,
The sea-spray tangled in her hair.
Her long hair blew my way.
The white rime to her red lips clung;
The blue horizon in her eyes
Burned, and the breadth of all the skies
Was in her arms out-dung.
The glamorous, the sea-washed maid
I gathered hard against my heart;
Her fingers tore my soul apart
To see how it was made.
So home to you—her laughter reels
About the hills; the wild, wet spray
Flings rainbow colors on the day
Where the late sunshine steals.
But be not jealous. Come, to me.
Sweet, understand me if you can—
She’s the lost love of every man
That ever loved the sea.
MAORILAND.
BETTIE RIDDELL.
From the Saxon Chronicle.
“He lived for many winters,” I have read
In that old chronicle of days and years,
M hich keeps the honor of the Saxon dead,
And in the keeping drowns their pride
with tears.
So many winters of the leafless beech
And frozen filigree of oaken boughs!
How the red light of deep liome-fires could
reach
A soothing finger, touch those wrinkled
brows!
Mornings of crackling frost and drifting snow
And icy fogs along the level mead —
O stubborn fathers of the long ago,
To live a winter was itself a deed!
But distant lips shall tell in happier mood
Of u,s and ours, through the great time
that comes:
“They lived for many summers”.... It is
good
To hear yon Saxon tempest in the gums!
N.s.w.
DAVID McKEE WRIGHT.
The Old Woman.
Fair it is and very fair in the April morn-
ing
Just to watch the great ships making out
to sea.
Sons of mine they went that way, care and
sorrow scorning,
Gallant hearts and loving. But they come
not back to me ;
They come no more to me.
Looking through the twilight, sad it is, and
stranger,
Girl of mine, asleep there on the white-
stoned hill.
Gone beyond the star fields, free from hurt
and danger,
I would not wish you back again to this
dark world of ill,
This weary world of ill.
The bright spring blossoms and to summer
passes;
Lone it is at midnight, lonelier at noon.
When the winds are whispering in the lank
green grasses
And a grey bird’s mourning and the
crickets croon ;
The long, long day they croon.
Sitting here with idle hands I hear the child-
ren playing
And ghost feet going where the roses
dream ;
The dark head, the bright head, the head
now 7 greying,
Snuggled to the pillows in the lamp-light’s
gleam.
The lamp-light’s yellow gleam.
Weary have I waited and heard no comer
Lifting np the gate-latch, darkening the
door,
Autumn into June light, spring to searing
summer,
Till my heart’s telling me they'll come no
more;
They’ll come back never more.
Long are the shadows and the low west’s
burning,
Watching by the pepper-tree, waiting at
the gate;
I know the roads that lead away but not the
road returning,
And the dew falls heavy and the night
grows late ;
Grows very, very late.
VICTORIA.
kATHLEEN DALZIEL.
At Middle Creek.
Do you remember how the shadows crossed
The stream at Middle Creek? The clean
and bright
Stems of live gum-treesi, fallen timber
mossed
With water-greenness, and the wavering
light
From the forgotten sun that meshed them
all
Into one marbled, floating tapestry?
We held our breaths for fear the strident
call
Of gulls would wreck the fragile imag'ry.
And laving age-black sandstone nestled pools
Deep-breasted as the Nereids of old.
Around whose tranquil’margins drifted spools
Dropped with a lavish riot from the gold
Of restless wattles swaying to the tune
Of every little flippant breeze that blew:
Pools that showed passive faces to the moon
And kept their secrets from her prying
view.
We saw, and thought no other eyes had
seen,
These brief ephemeral beauties; and you
said
Time would itself forget that they had been
Before the beauty of our love was dead.
To-day I went, to Middle Creek again ;
The shadow tapestry was still unfurled,
The rock-pools still caressed their golden
rain.
But you oh where are you iu all the
world ?
N.a.w.
R. E. T.
Renewal.
With deft young hands, the maiden Spring
Sets hud and stem to blossoming,
And, with a joyous, glad largesse,
She fills her house with loveliness:
Pink orchard-blossom softly fills
The cobalt bowls of curving hills,
And pleasant prospects may be seen
From vista windows cased with green:
And oft she pauses gaily, where
Her riant face shows wondrous fair
In mirror-pools of quiet grace,
Willow-draped with soft, green lace.
But, best of all, she loves to greet
The sound of children’s eager feet,
And for their playing has unrolled
A carpet starred with flower-gold.
VICTORIA.
LUCY HILL.
The Mystic.
Let others live by daily bread,
Give me of manna or I die,
Whose spirit to the Muse was wed
By the Most High.
The priest of Poesy divine,
Aloof and mystical, between
The earth and heaven, at Nature’s shriDe
I serve the Unseen.
I read the Word of God, as writ
O’er earth and air, in God’s own hand,
That all who hear me utter it
May understand.
I feel with fearful reverence
God’s heart-throb in the pulse of things.
While spirit beats the bars of sense
With soft flutterings.
I see the shadow of the Lord
Athwart the starry threshold blown;
I see the angels of the Word
Before the throne.
The golden monstrance of the day.
The silver monstrance of the night,
And earth that censer-like doth sway
In the great God’s sight.
In hallowed groves, ’mid hills dim-veiled,
The Druids of eld. in stoles of white,
With magical incanting hailed
The lord of light.
Bring me the chalice of Desire,
My golden lyre, my robes of song;
The hand that touched my lips with fire,
Unlatch my tongue!
QUEENSLAND.
WILLIAM CARIY.
Silence.
When true mates parted meet again
And dwell on times long sped,
Though much each frees his heart to each,
Oft something goes unsaid.
Eyes fixed upon a red-heart fire
Or on a camp-fire’s glow,
Unvoiced remains some happening,
Some tale of long ago.
Though this is told, and that is told.
While time slow-winged departs,
The theme that hurts they ever keep
Close-locked within their hearts.
Since he who suffered suffers still,
And keeps his suffering
Unvoiced, unbreathed, from his true mate
There comes no questioning.
No questioning. ..yet in his heart
One hears the other say:
“Your silence is my silence, mate,
For ever and for aye."
In sacredness they hold one theme,
What time their red fire glows,
Which idle gossipers would fling
To every wind that blows.
Though, telling tales of other days,
Through years they wander back
To ways they trod of old. their minds
Avoid one sacred track.
Mates once mates always is the creed
Wherein they breathe and live :
And. knowing this they know and feel
No hurt must mateship give.
N.S.W.
RODERIC QUINN.


A Model for Every
Haulage Need
ħ
There are now more Republic Trucks in use than
those of any other exclusive truck manufacturer. For,
far from resting on the reputation that was gained in
the early days of the truck industry, the Republic line
has been made, year by year, more and more compre-
hensive in order to meet the specialised demands
which became apparent as more and still more
industries turned to motor trucks as the solution of
transport problems. To-day Republic leadership is
stronger than ever, primarily due to the fact that
there is a right Republic model for every haulage
purpose in the field of transportation.
Republic trucks, all over Australia, are establishing
amazing records, making money for their owners.
They express their power and strength in terms of
faster time, surer schedules, lengthened routes, and
more ton-miles —though requiring nothing but ordi-
nary routine attention. High mechanical efficiency is
achieved by advanced engine improvements —by
deeper frames —by scientific cross bracing—by
heavier, longer springs —by larger, free-acting
shackles —by oil-bathed axles —by the most efficient
brakes ever designed.
No matter what your haulage need, there is a Republic designed to do it
■*—and to do it well. Let the nearest Republic Dealer demonstrate.
NEW SOUTH WALES:
Larke, Hoskins & Co., Ltd.,
177 to 185 William Street, Sydney.
VICTORIA:
Preston Motors Pty., Ltd.,
Cor. Elizabeth and Therry Streets, Melbourne.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA:
Rasch Motors, Ltd.,
69 Waymouth Street, Adelaide.
WESTERN AUSTRALIA:
Republic Truck Sales, Ltd.,
905 Hay Street, Perth.
QUEENSLAND:
Canada Cycle & Motor Agency (Q’land), Ltd.,
Creek and Adelaide Streets, Brisbane.
NEW ZEALAND:
Inglis Bros. & Co., Ltd.,
Taranaki and Cable Streets, Wellington.
Factory Distributors: W. A. CROWLE, LTD., Crowle House, Castlereagh Street, SYDNEY.
h
5 Bp
a
Bus.
MM
m
Municipal Use.
-0
I
Ice Company.
50
/- - r i -
Road Construction.
%
C*3
m
LU
SMi
Transportation.


ĥ
jß'iae
E
2 v ✓ {„?
»»«*' ';'■*****?>
I
■n
.
II
y gf
«H
■ j&4_,
SEPPELT & SONS y§|
SOUTH AUSTRAUA * P
III
ħ
#


The Bulletin
Vol. 48—No. 2484.
September 22, 1927.
THE COMMUNIST WAY.
“What did yer blow her up for, Bill?”
“To let the blinkin’ cap’talist who owns her see our power, o’ course.”


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper.
“Australia for the White Man.
Printed and published by William Macleod, of
Musgrave and McLeod Streets, Mosman, for Ihe
Bulletin Newspaper Co., Ltd., at the Oftce of
Co., 214 George Street, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia.
Melbourne Office: 114-120 Flinders Street.
London Office: No. 1 Wardour Street (near Picca-
dilly Circus), W.l.
PUBLISHED ONCE A WEEK.
TERMS TO SUBSCRIBERS
(In Advance only).
Pouted to ANY address in Australasia, weekly:
12 months, £1 )s.; 6 months, 12s. lid.; 3 months, 7s.
To any address Overseas: 12 months, £1 Ids.; 0
months, 15s. 3d.; 3 months, Bs.
Cheques, drafts, etc., which should be crossed, and
all Business Communications to be addressed to the
Manager.
Special Notice.
All correspondence to be addressed to Box 2521 8.8.,
G.P.0., Sydney.
Insufficiently stamped letters are liable to oe
The contents of this paper are copyright by the
publishers. The right to reproduce or translate any
part of the contents of this number is hereby expressly
reserved by the publishers.
The Editor will carefully read and, where practic-
able, acknowledge in the “Correspondence ’ column
all contributions submitted, whether, in the form of
Political. Social or other Articles, Verse, Short laics
or Sketches (those dealing with Australian subjects
and not exceeding two columns in length, or, say,
3000 words, are specially acceptable), Paragraphs,
Letters or Newspaper Clippings. All communications
will be regarded as strictly confidential.
The Bulletin will return all unsuitable MS. when
the address is specified and stamps are enclosed. But
no MS. will be returned or preserved unless these
conditions are observed. When MS. is forwarded
without stamps for return it will be understood that
the copy is to be destroyed if not acceptable. Per-
sonal applications for return of MS. cannot receive
attention. Further. The Bulletin desires those
sending MS. to distinctly understand that it is not
responsible for the preservation or transmission of MS.
To Amateurs in Black and White.
Anyone supplying to The Bulletin original
humorous or other topical drawings in line or wash,
of sufficient merit and interest and, adapted for
direct reproduction, or any interesting photograph
illustrative of a current event will be paid for same
on acceptance. Any picture containing a good idea
but unfitted for direct reproduction —i.e., any picture
which has to be re-drawn —will be paid for as a
suggestion only. The conditions under which such
artistic contributions will be received are those
applying to MS.
To Travellers Abroad.
“The Bulletin’s” representative in I.ondon is
Ij. St, C. Grondona, No. 1 Wardour Street
(near Piccadilly Circus), W.l. Copies of
“The Bulletin” can be obtained from him or
the bookstall in the Main Hall at Australia
House. .1 Iso from Messrs. Gordon and Gotch. 15-
79 Farringdon Street, London, E.C.).; and IF. Paw-
son and Sons, Cannon House, Breams Buildings,
London. E.C.)._; E. T. Hole, Ilolerth Satire Ser-
vice, )6 Fleet Street, London, E.C.; “The British
Australian and New Zealander,” 1/ 1)-1! Australia
House, Strand, London, W.C.2; F. Algor, 58 Grace-
church Street, London, E.C.3.
South Africa. —The Central News Agency. Cape-
town, Durban and Johannesburg; Dawson and Son,
Capetown and Johannesburg ; Havana House, Durban ;
Rhodesia News Agency, Salisbury; Benoni News
Agency, Benoni; Handel House, Kimberleyand
others.
Canada.- — G. S. Forsyth and Co., )) 1 Hastings
Street, Vancouver, B.C.
LT.S.A. — Chicago: J. Roland Kay Co., 161. East
Erie Street, N. Michigan Boulevarde; Post Office
News Co., 33 West Monroe Street, Chicago. New
York: Brentano’s, sth Avenue and 21th Street, New
York City; Schultz News Agency, S.E. Corner 6th
Avenue and )2nd Street, New York City; Ilotaling’s
News Agency, 203 West ’/Ist Street, New York City.
Washington: Liberty News Co., Seattle. Washington;
Wheatley News Co., 10) Market Street, San Francisco;
Wallace, The New Orleans News Man, 105 Royal
Street, New Orleans, La.; The Wide World News
Stand, 5)l-i South Main Street, Los Angeles, Cal.
Egypt. — Jacques, Horn . and Co., the Colonial
Book and News Stores, Port Said, Egypt.
Hong Kong. —Brewer and Co., 606 Podder Street,
Hcng Kong.
China.- —Brewer and Co., St Nanking Road,
Shanghai, China.
Penang, F..M.S. — K. Abdul Rahman, Bookstall,
Eastern and Oriental Hotel.
Ceylon. — T. Tj. De Silva, 39 Chatham Street,
Colombo; Plate, Ltd., Bristol Studios, Kandy.
Papua. —Whitten Bros.. Samarai and Port Moresby.
Fiji. — A. Barker, Suva; Harry Gardiner, Metropole
Hairdressing Saloon, Suva.
Overseas Advertising Representatives.
London. — L. St. C. Grondona. No. 1 Wardout
Street (near Piccadilly Circus), W. 1.: Gordon and
Gotc.li, 15-79 Farringdon Street. London, E.C.).
U.S.A. — J. Roland Kay Co.. 161 East Erie Street,
.V. Michigan Boulevarde, Chicago.
Postage Rates.
Single copies of The Bulletin (registered as a
newspaper): — Commonwealth, New Zealand and Fiji:
10oz., Id. United Kingdom: )oz. to 10oz., lid.; each
additional )oz.. Id. All Sea Route: 1605., lid.
British Possessions and U.S.A.: )oz. or part thereof,
Id. Elservhere, 20z., Id.
SuT^xzllelm,,
THURSDAY, SEPTEMBER 22, 1927.
A POLICY FOR THE TOWN AND
COUNTRY PARTY.
The Country party in N. S. Wales politics
has issued its programme, and the difference
between Bavin and Buttenshaw proves to
be limited. The most conspicuous differ-
ence is that in places where Bavin is vague,
Buttenshaw goes into a certain amount of
detail. Thus the Buttenshaw policy is
moderately definite about the reformed
Upper House. It is to consist of 64 elected
members (though whether chosen by con-
stituencies or by the State as one consti-
tuency isn't certain), and their tenure is to
be as much as 12 years; so presumably the
House will retire by three-yearly instal-
ments. Also the Buttenshaw policy speaks
distinctly about the opening of neglected
ports, and promises the long-postponed rail-
way from Inverell to the coast, so that the
great northern tableland may have a short
road to deep water. Presumably the com-
pletion of the line to Twofold Bay is also
on the bill, and it is definitely stated that
Newcastle will be equipped so as to be
something more than a coal port. Other
improvements which the party aims to
bring about are piecework, profit-sharing,
the making of child endowment and the
rural basic wage matters of Federal concern,
if the Commonwealth can be induced to
take them over, and some serious effort to
abolish the system of duplicate awards,
under which a Federal Beeby and a State
Piddington vie with each other in showing
how much two legal gentlemen may not
know about the details and possibilities of
industry.
* !|: * *
But after that the Buttenshaw pro-
gramme tends to taper off. It is really not
much worth while to include in a pro-
gramme “schemes to foster irrigation, land
settlement and water conservation,” even if
a programme nowadays looks bare without
them. The State has spent an immensity
of borrowed affluence on irrigation schemes;
it hasn’t irrigated nearly so much land as
is commonly supposed; the financial results
have so far been wretchedly poor; and the
State Statistician alleges that the area under
crop in 1926 was less than in 1916, 1917,
1923 or 1924. Possibly the lack of available
ports helped to nullify the irrigation; any-
how, there is need to do better with the
old schemes before beginning new ones. The
old, old idea of resuming big estates (with
loan money, of course) makes its reappear-
ance, and loan-money resumptions have
never led to much good. The promise to
reduce taxes would be better turned into
a promise to shift all the unproductive ex-
penditure from loan account into ordinary
expenditure account, and then to cut down
taxation if that healthy reform and the pro-
vision of a sinking fund left any margin,
which is more than doubtful. Thfcre is more
likely to be a deficit than a margin. It is im-
possible to arouse enthusiasm, either, over
the idea of subdividing the State into local
government areas. N. S. Wales, like some
of its neighbors, requires subdivision into
smaller States; otherwise it is very much
subdivided and local-governed already, and
to superimpose another layer of administra-
tion looks superfluous and to no purpose.
And the demand for proportional represen-
tation, even though it is accompanied by
consolidation of State and Federal rolls,
is uninteresting. Decent representation,
with less pre-selection and fewer semi-
criminal characters counting the votes,
would, however, be distinct gains. It might
not be amiss to advise that in addition to
•the use of Federal rolls at State elections
Federal officials should • conduct the elec-
tions.
v v *! !
Country-leader Buttenshaw might have
put forward a more adventurous pro-
gramme if only because he is not in the
direct line of succession to the throne like
Bavin is, and could afford to take chances.
He might thus have promised to make
share and allotment hawking criminal, and
unpaid instalments on the purchases irre-
coverable. Any leader who promised to
seek out all possible ways to discourage
the rich and unproductive bookmaking
parasite would command a hearing, especi-
ally if he used a loud speaker to quell in-
terruption. There is room for an upstand-
ing politician who said it would be his
object, should he attain office, to see what
the State authority could do in the way
of sending imported revolutionaries back
to their native land, and making their re-
turn here both painful and expensive. Any
policy should also include something about
the abolition of the Fair Rents law and the
substitution of something sane and work-
able. After years of violent repression of
the house-to-let man, there is, on the word
of Dr. Evatt, a shortage of 30,000 modest
homes in Sydney alone, and the only
remedy the Labor party has to propose is
that the Act should be extended to all
classes of homes so as to spread the scar-
city. In a peaceful moment the leader
might include in his scheme of things the
amalgamation of the two branches of the
legal profession, so that fewer lawyers would
go round.
* * * x
As a side-line Buttenshaw is reported
as advocating a National Australian Con-
vention to deal with constitutional amend-
ment. If he proposes, as it would appear,
to take an active interest in the repair of
the Federal Constitution, another Federal
matter might as well be added. At present
sugar is a prohibited import, and it is ex-
pected that the embargo will be continued
indefinitely. This proves that the prohibi-
tion of foreign goods which Australia can
do without is a perfectly feasible policy.
Either the list should be extended to in-
clude many other foreign goods which Aus-
tralia can do without, or it should be abol-
ished and sugar left to take its chance
under the tariff with the rest. Since the
adverse balance of trade became a perma-
nent guest in 1922-23, the demand for new
foreign loans with which to pay for surplus
imports and to meet interest on old foreign
loans, because there are no longer surplus
exports to pay with, has become a frenzy.
Between June, 1923, and June, 1926, Federal
and State debts due in Australia grew by
£18,000.000. Those due abroad increased
by well over £93.000,000. Interest on the
small sum is payable in paper, of which we
have plenty, for it doesn’t leave the coun-
try. Interest on the very large sum is
payable in gold, which we haven’t got, un-
less we borrow it; or in surplus exports,
which we no longer produce. There is no
visible remedy, especially in these days
when Beebys and Piddingtons spend their
shining hours m handing down less-toil and
more-wage decisions, save in the drastic re-
duction of imports (foreign goods which
are not really essential), and the sugar
situation shows how to go about the work.
EVE’S BLUFF.
Did ever devotee accept a doctrine more
completely, or more blindly, than the
average man does that of the Efficiency of
Woman in the Home? It is another
example of the power of words; she tells
him so often about it, using sounding
phrases concerning the pride of a housewife
in her cookery and her home, and assum-
ing such a convincing air of superiority on
the whole question of housekeeping, that
she has him completely hoodwinked. It is
small chance he has of detecting the sham
and discovering her amazing inefficiency.
He finds himself served with three meals a
day; as he brings a hunger to them he
enjoys them, and it never crosses his mind
to question his wife’s claim to be a good
cook.
A boiled leg of mutton as the foundation
of a dinner should be a sufficiently simple
dish to prepare properly. Yet the assertion
must be made (not “without fear of contra-
diction,” it is true, but still in the full
knowledge of the justice of the statement)
that many “good housekeepers” do not
recognise any difference between putting it
on in cold or hot or boiling water. Just
as many do not know such elementary
details as whether rice should take its first
bath hot or cold, or whether meat should
commence its frying in cold or warm or
boiling fat. Of those who do use the correct
method, the vast majority cannot say, and
have never bothered to think, what is the
reason for it, or its effect on flavor or
digestibility. In fact, if it is started in cold
water the mutton will not be uneatable,
provided it is cooked long enough. If it
comes to table stewed or stringy, possibly
Milord has been trained to believe that is
the proper state for it; if its condition is -par-
ticularly bad, a word from her about the
inferior meat the butcher is bringing lately
is sufficient to exonerate her. If the rice,
instead of being a collection of separate
grains, is a glutinous mass, it will still eat
quite well with the curry or the stewed
fruit. And if he gets indigestion, how is he
to know that it is due to fat “split” in the
faulty cooking of the fried steak and
onions? They tasted all right.
Your clever housewife (by “clever” is
meant, possessed of that cunning which en-
ables the female of the species to delude
the male) will, by the one fruit cake she
produced at Christmas time, keep her repu-
tation as a good cake-baker safe for six
months, though in that half-year every
other fruit cake she attempts either be-
comes hopelessly burned or is served up as
plum pudding. Naturally she sees no reason
to broadcast the fact that the Christmas
success was the last of three tries, the other
two being secretely donated to a Christmas
Cheer Fund for the Very Unfortunate. The
man of the house does not see these, nor
any of her worst failures, and for the ones
he does see she has a set of excellent ex-
cuses. If the potatoes are watery the
grocer sent a bad quarter; if the meat is
tough the butcher is to blame; a sodden pie
is the result of the poor fuel the wood
merchant brought; a burned one is due
to that vile stove.
In matters in which he might be expected
to be less easily misled, he is in reality no
better off. “You’d better throw that axe
out of your kitchen,” growls the Brute at
dinner. “What axe?” she asks. “The one
you use to cut the meat into chips like
this,” he replies, indicating the irregularly
cut pieces of meat on his plate. Then a
verbal axe descends on him. “How can I
slice meat properly,” she demands indig-
nantly, “when every knife in the place is
as blunt as the top of a fence? If there
was a man about the house he would sharpen
a knife for me occasionally.” So he rumbles
into silence, for it does not occur to him'to
wonder why a woman who spends a fair
time almost every day of her life in cutting
meat, vegetables, bread and the like should
always muddle along with blunt knives,
instead of learning how to sharpen _ them
herself. In truth, it is as much her job as
it is a carpenter’s to be able to sharpen a
chisel. Yet the average kitchen is the last
place to look for a sharp knife. Does a
scissors need sharpening, or any ordinary
household appliance such as the spring of
a roller blind, an oilcan, a door lock or a
sink give trouble, the one who should know
how to deal with it is the one who is con-
tinually using such things, the one who
calls herself a housekeeper and who per-
petually praises her own competence. But
can she fix it? No, she is as helpless before
a jambed roller as she would be before a
stalled steam-engine.
Yet let no man who stumbles on the
truth of the matter, and sees the bluff ex-
posed, think to lead a movement lor the
enlightenment of his deluded fellows. bbe
carries too many guns tor a general rebel-
lion to be successful. Should her particular
subject show signs of becoming restive oyei
the cooking, she can take her trusty recipe
book and dazzle him for a day or two with
elaborate dishes. She will be shrewd enoug 1
to choose the mysterious and unknown ones
that every recipe book contains; then as
he does not know what the appearance or
taste of them should be, no matter what
sort of a hash she makes of them, he can
find no fault. Should any aspect of her care
of the house arouse his criticism, she can
quickly silence him by demanding more
domestic help.
And if she has anything like serious
trouble with him, she will not have long to
wait before he gets a cold or some other
indisposition', and she can then play her
trump card of proving herself a' competent
nurse. Whatever his symptoms, she will, of
course, rub any likely spot with that won-
derful liniment she makes herself from
vinegar and linseed and eggs. True, it
would be more suitable for a furniture
polish; but he never guesses that. And she
will give him three times a day a dose of
her own renowned mixture of honey and
saltpetre and brown sugar. It sounds as
if it would be quite good for curing bacon,
so it should have some effect on him. Any-
how, neither of them can do much harm,
and they help the faith cure to work while
she carries on her bluff of understanding
his case perfectly and knowing just how to
treat it. The “good nurse” is indeed her
trump card —a joker in two senses!
CRCESUS.
PLAIN ENGLISH.
Lang’s Best Friends,
Considered as a politician J. T. Lang isn’t
much. He has quarrelled with the most
upright and intelligent men of his party,
and has chosen instead to ally himself with
inflammatory rabbits who regard Moscow
as the spiritual home of such souls as they
possess. And yet scores of hundreds of
decent working men and women who
cherish high ideals of honesty and who look
upon the Soviet about as favorably as they
regard suicide continue to march under the
Lang banner. And they do it with their
eyes open.
The explanation is not very difficult to
arrive at. Mr. Lang has influential friends.
They don’t belong to his party; they never
give him a vote ; but they work solidly and
strenuously in his interests for several hours
a day every day of the year. They are the
uncultivated rich, the only people in Aus-
tralia who have no manners, no ascertain-
able morals and no human sympathies.
They sweep along in their Rolls-Royces and
Lanchesters with their noses uplifted, exud-
ing contempt at every pore. Their chauf-
feurs expect the common herd to get out
of the way, and if any member of the
common herd doesn’t get out of the way
quickly enough he or she shortly afterwards
occupies a neat white cot in a hospital.
Factory-girls, after they have been at work
two hours, look from the windows of their
workshops to see the daughters of the rich
with their golf-kits bowling down to the
links in smart two-seaters to spend a day
at play. In the late afternoon and early
morning gilded hotels and cabarets
belch forth flocks of beautifully-dressed
people of both sexes, so tired of life that
it has taken innumerable cocktails to give
them any interest in existence. The evening
papers recount the amours and intrigues
of these favored ones, and the sensational
weeklies afford glimpses of their methods
of dissipation.
They toil not, neither do they spin, but
they could give Solomon points on luxury
and magnificence, if not on wisdom. And
every one of these people, leading useless,
or apparently useless, ostentatious lives, is
a “heeler,” as our American friends would
say. for Lang and Lang's machine. The
working man or woman who has to scurry
out of the way of a limousine moving at a
mile-a-minute cl in; who -sees, people who
don’t work spending as much in a night as
would keep a working-class family in decent
comfort for a month; who suffers the
boundless impertinence and arrogance of
these wealthy boors, can be excused if they
associate the anti-Labor party in politic-
with the Rolls-roystering crowd that forms
the scum on the surface of society. The
old-fashioned notions that wealth is a trust,
that extravagance and ostentation are
obnoxious, and that riches without manners
are merely absurd have fallen into desue-
tude. Until they are resurrected even so
crude and grotesque a form of Labonsm as
that sponsored by Lang and his funny littlp
friends is sure of a strong measure o',
support.
#
Red Tape and Sealing' Wax.
A Perth estate-agent named Thorogood
sold a number of houses on the prevailing
long terms. The profits did not come in
forthwith, but were received from time to
time. Quite reasonably he thought that
in rendering unto the Taxation C.esars his
yearly return he need show only the income
from this source that had so far come m.
Outstanding profits were like birds m the
bush; you might catch them next year or
you might not; you certainly had no
caught them this year. But the Commis-
sioner thought otherwise, and claimed tha
he had a right to assess the profits on the
sales in the year they were made.
Any business man knows that P rof V
made are not always profits received,
was so in this case. What he had receive
he duly recorded in his return; when la ei
on a further portion of the profits ma c
were received, they, too, would be recorde
All this seemed to be fudge and nonsense
to the Commissioner and apparently not a
all in conformity with the rules and regu-


lations of the department. Thorogood came
of fighting stock and appealed to the Court
of Review, which thought his contention a
reasonable one and upheld it. This still
further hardened the heart of the Commis-
sioner, who, having the public funds behind
him, carried the case to the High Court;
and there his pride was humbled even to
the dust. “This,” said the frank and forth-
right Justice Starke, “is an illustration of
the acts of the Taxation Department. They
take a rule and try to apply it in every
case.... I do not hesitate to say that the
action of the Taxation Department is abso-
lutely disgraceful. The Commissioner fixes
a formula and rigid rules which have
nothing to do with the case.... The Com-
missioner of Taxation, instead of applying
his mind to a case, just takes a rule of
thumb and inflicts penalties and all sorts
of things upon the taxpayer without any
justice whatever.”
This is a scathing indictment, and it
would not be human nature if it did not
call forth rejoicing among many suffering
the wounds of taxation. But the truth is
that the Judge’s remarks are applicable to
a far wider field than the department on
whose insolent head they are heaped. As
in. the Circumlocution Office, so in every
Government department to this day, the
formula and the rigid rule are at work.
Under the pretext that system, order and
method are necessary, the individual and
the individual’s case are submerged in the
mass. Everything is sorted, labelled and
classified—your case is bound to go into
some box and in it goes. Exceptional
cases are an intolerable nuisance to the
official mind. The public has just got to
fit into what is made for it. If it were not
so the public servant could not enjoy his
Saturday holiday. The mental labor of
patiently and exhaustively inquiring into
individual cases is daily side-tracked lay the
familiar procedure of passing on the trouble
to be submitted and initialled by a succes-
sion of clerks. It saves such a lot of trouble
to simply endorse the humble petition of
Jones: “Comes under Reg. X.”
♦
John Bull Puts His Foot Down.
The League of Nations put itself under
review at the latest Assembly meeting, and
was agreeably surprised, to judge by the
tone of some of the speeches, to find itself
still alive and kicking. It is true that most
of the objects for which it was founded
have been furthered more by sectional
agreements outside its aegis than by the
decisions of the Council or Assembly, but
the spirit of the League persists and even
grows stronger. It has now grown to a
stage at which the delegates of the Great
Powers pay the League the compliment of
telling it the truth occasionally.
In the past the language of diplomacy has
too often been the current coin of Assembly
transactions, but Austen Chamberlain’s
speech defining the attitude of the British
Empire to the League was a plain, straight-
forward statement of facts. He got down
to bedrock when he told the Assembly that
the empire he represented was not going to
burst itself into several pieces by giving
guarantees that it would police every
frontier in the world. It is already pledged
—-the pledge is 15 years old—to intervene
in disputes that affect the European nations
nearest to the white cliffs of Dover: Ger-
many, F’rance and Belgium; and the ful-
filment of the pledge cost an amount of
blood and treasure that seriously strained
even J. Bull’s tremendous resources. British
ships patrol the seven seas; British interests
require protection in every continent. Bri-
tain is not prepared to do more than she
is doing at present to preserve the peace
of the world. Why, Chamberlain asked,
should not some of the other Powers assume
responsibility for frontiers within their
sphere of influence?
It was a fair question, and undoubtedly
expressed the mind of the British people
on the subject. Following as it did an ex-
change of courtesies—possibly not entirely
sincere—between Stresemann and Briand,
Chamberlain’s speech pointed the way to
an extension of those sectional agreements
that fringe and impinge upon the League’s
activities. Whole-hog Leaguers, of course,
are disappointed that such a tame method
of development should be suggested, but,
the suggestion could not have been a sur-
prise. No member of the British Common-
wealth of Nations has signed the Locarno
Protocol that was intended to turn into
explicit undertakings the pious sentiments
of the Covenant. France and Germany and
some others did sign, but they obviously ex-
pected Britain to carry the baby, and were
peeved when Britain said that it couldn’t
and wouldn’t. That was the end of that
section.
As Chamberlain and the Mussoliniland
delegate, Scialoja, hinted, the League has
got about as far as it can go at present—
as a League. Progress towards world-peace
must be pursued for a while along other
channels. Possibly some day the world will
wake up in the morning to find in existence
a network of pacts, sanctions, protocols
and treaties which, when turned into the
League for endorsement, will be found to
cover every aim of the Covenant. And
possibly the quickest way to that result
is along the road Chamberlain has pointed
out. Anyway, John Bull won’t take any
other just now, and that’s that.
♦
The A.N.A. and a Wild Cat.
The Bulletin is glad to see that the A.N.A.
from its headquarters in Melbourne has
renounced the Australian Natives’ Associa-
tion, Ltd., of Sydney. This concern came
under the notice of The Bulletin’s “Wild
Cat” Department on April 7, this year, and
was held up as “a striking example of how
shockingly loose is the insurance legislation
of this country.” The final conclusion
arrived at was this: —
“It is intolerable that policies should
be written under existing conditions. If
an organisation thinks it can do better
for itself, its members and its friends than
the established offices, it should divorce
policy-writing from any and every other
activity. And the State is negligent in giving
it the option.”
The last revenue account showed £40,403
received from premiums of one sort and
another, most of them “Industrial branch
weekly premiums”; and, whereas the claims
paid were £2859, expenses ran away with
£38,651.
Following on the publication of these
figures and comments, the Vic. Board of
Directors of the A.N.A.—a body registered
under the Friendly Societies Act of Vic-
toria —considered the position, which had
been rendered all the more serious because
the A.N.A., Ltd., had got itself registered
as “a foreign co. carrying on business in
Victoria.” Statutory declarations were,
obtained by the police and others. Here
are extracts from two of them: —
“I was induced to take out two policies
in the A.N.A., Ltd., N. S. Wales, by repre-
sentations made to me that I was insuring
with the same association to which my hus-
band belonged, viz., the A.N.A. Friendly
Society of Victoria.”
“I said: ‘I did not know that the A.N.A.
did life-insurance work.’ He said: ‘Oh
yes, we do.’ I have relatives in the A.N.A.
Friendly Society of Victoria, and my son
will soon be joining the A.N.A., so I thought
it would be a good thing to insure him in
the co. connected with the A.N.A. I took
out the policy.”
There can be no question at all that this
co. has attempted to associate itself in
the public mind with the A.N.A. friendly
society. Indeed, in one advt. in an alleged
financial paper published in Sydney, this
advt. was printed:—
“Founded half a century ago, the A.N.A.,
though not as yet actually amalgamated
throughout the Commonwealth, is working-
in sympathy, with a total membership
exceeding 50,000 and with funds totalling
about three-quarters of a million sterling.”
This co. has no more to do with the funds
of the A.N.A. friendly society than the
dosser in the Domain has with the Bank of
England.
That it should be permitted to carry on
business in such a manner is, as this paper
said earlier in the year, a scandal and a
grave reflection upon the law of N. S.
Wales.
♦
To the Unknown Fool.
When monuments to the Unknown Soldier
are so common it seems a pity that some-
one doesn’t spare a thought and a cenotaph
of coarse material for the Unknown Fool.
The Bulletin supposes he is unknown,
for it never heard of him being identified.
Probably he shuns publicity and pretends
to be a department or an accidental conca-
tenation of circumstances. He is the man
who added years to the war, gave the Turks
a new lease of Constantinople when it
would otherwise have become Christian
property, brought about the devastation of
three gallant little Allied States, wrecked
the Russian Empire, furnished Bolshevism
with the opportunity which led to such
miserable consequences in Russia, Hungary,
Northern Italy and China, and strewed his
dead two deep over two continents. In
addition to all. else he arranged the sur-
render of a British army, which was the
kind of disaster which hadn’t happened to
tlie Old Man since 1807. Despite the vast-
ness of the evil he did, this paper wouldn’t
be in the least surprised if his name was
Smith.
The Unknown Fool put up his great per-
formance early in 1915. It had become
pretty evident that ships alone could not
force the Dardanelles, and a landing was
called for. But in loading the store ships
it had never occurred to Smith to put the
equipment necessary for a landing on top,
or to put the parts of one war machine
together, or near each other, or even in the
same vessel. He dropped in heterogeneous
masses of guns, ammunition and corned
beef, deposited the bulk in the bow of one
ship and the key in the stern of another,
planked the Admiral’s dress-suit on top of
everything, and remarked that all was well.
He even omitted to send lists showing
approximately where things were. When
the golden opportunity came there were
allegedly only some 20.000 inferior Turkish
troops, under Shirker Pasha, on the pen-
insula, and Shirker was an officer of no
repute. It was speculated afterwards that
if the invaders had made a rush landing,
armed with some cutlery and the corned
beef and the Admiral’s dress-suit, and helped
by the ships’ guns, they might have dug
themselves in, and then evolved order out
of the confusion; but the attempt wasn’t
made. Instead, the store ships sailed away
to Egypt to unload and repack and make
out proper catalogues, and when they
returned there were some hundred thousand
troops waiting for them with a very capable
Hun in charge. As the first marine attack
was made on February 19, and the landing
was on April 26, the enemy had plenty of
warning.
So, all by reason of Smith, Gallipoli was
a ghastly fiasco, and the Dardanelles
weren’t taken by combined land and sea
attack, and the Unspeakable wasn’t booted
out of Byzantium, and a short road wasn’t
open to pour munitions into Russia and
bring away wheat supplies. And because
of the same individual the time-serving
Bulgarian monarch decided that the Hun
represented the winning side, and joined it,
to the undoing of Serbia and Montenegro,
and to some extent the ruin of Roumania
later on; and the Turk, with his greatly-
exalted tail, fought the Euphrates cam-
paign which led to the surrender of
Townshenb's army at Ivut. Even the
later Armenian massacres may have been
due to the scandalously bad packing of
Smith, but for whom Russia should have
been more than strong enough to protect a
Christian border nation, and the Turk
should have been sufficiently meek to listen
to reason. Anyhow, it would have been
easy, with a less incompetent and demented
Smith, for an Allied fleet to have raged up
and down the Armenian coast, and talked
to Abdul in the only language he has ever
understood.
Whether the fiendish massacres of Euro-
peans and others which Abdul found a
chance to perpetrate later on, at Smyrna
and elsewhere in Asia Minor, would have
been averted if the Unspeakable had had
his head bashed on the doorstep in 1915,
as it might easily have been, it is impos-
sible to say for certain. Probably they
would have been averted. Anyhow, this
side-issue doesn’t affect the outstanding
fact, which is that the Unknown Fool
deserves a monument of some durable and,
if possible, offensive material, and sur-
mounted by a skull. In addition, a uni-
versity professor should be appointed at
every great seat of learning to lecture
exclusively on Smith as a terrible lesson re
the evils of military disorganisation and
unpreparedness.
+
Something Worth Stealing.
A party of anxious inquirers from Victoria
lately went on a motor tour of Central
Australia, and, having returned, the leader,
one Withers of Melbourne, has been re-
lating fragments of his experiences. A
few of them:—
“In the centre of Australia he saw a
goldmine which, he was informed, had shown
a return of 270 z. to the ton, and was reck-
oned another Mount Morgan.
“He had visited places where, although
there had been practically no rain for years,
the . growth of grass was sufficient to keep
large numbers of cattle in prime condition.
“Alice Springs, the central settlement of
the continent, is a beautiful and attractive
place. It lies in a pretty valley surrounded
by high ranges.
“Tennant’s Creek, a few hundred miles
north of Alice Springs, is . very rich in
minerals of various kinds, including gold.
There are veritable mountains of mica of
a high grade.
“The road from Tennant’s Creek to Banka
Banka is indescribably bad.... The car
covered only 30 miles in a day.”
Many such tales have been told, but where
there are so few existing votes to be gathered
in the tales excite a minimum of inter-
est. Now in the fifth year of the Bruce-
Page Cabinet a little railway extension has
been commenced at the north end of the
Transcontinental line, which section has
been stagnant since 1918 (in fact, it has
somehow become a mile shorter), and
a similar commencement has been made
at the south end, which has been
stationary since it became Federal pro-
perty in 1911, though it has at least held
its own. But there is none of the enthusiasm
put into the work that has been displayed
over, say, the Grafton-South Brisbane line
in N.S.W. and Queensland. On this State
undertaking £840,000 of Federal loan money
was expended in 1925-26, while only £287,000
was allotted to the Commonwealth’s own
big railway in its own big Territory. And
little, if any, of the Federal £20,000,000
road grant seems to have found its way
there.
♦
The Sentimentalist on the Bench.
The shockingly inadequate sentence of
two years’ imprisonment imposed lately on
an 18-year-old ruffian named Brian
Travers, at Sydney Quarter Sessions, for
an exceptionally brutal assault on an old
man, called further attention to the inability
of some of our Judiciary to see things in
their proper perspective. Travers, with
others, assaulted and robbed his victim,
who foolishly recognised him. Remarking
genially that he would fix him so that he
wouldn’t recognise him any more, Travers
knocked the old man down again, and, crush-
ing his boot-heel into the prostrate victim’s
eye, twisted his foot till the eyeball was
gouged out and destroyed. There were no
extenuating circumstances, and Judge
Sciioles, who awarded a petty thief IS
months at the same sessions, felt constrained
to remark that it was incredible such fiends
could exist. He backed his incredulity
by awarding the young gentleman the sen-
tence above recorded, instead of the five
years’ maximum he so richly merited. No
wonder the hero was so delighted with his
luck that he waved a gallant au revoir to
“his friends and sympathisers in court,” as
one journal had it.
That there should be friends and sympa-
thisers for such an apache is eloquent com-
ment on the conditions existing in some-
strata of our social life. Vile ruffianism
and callous crime are on the increase in
all the big centres of population. The
razor-slasher, the gunman and the bottle-
wielder are holding high carnival all over
the country. Their victims are almost
invariably women and old men or disabled
ones—the maimed returned soldier seems
especially popular. The aggressors are, for
the most part, youthful morons who have
not been taught the necessity for a measure
of self-restraint, if only for the sake of
their own hides. This class of criminal is
the most indifferent to consequences of al!
the.criminal types, and it is an axiom of
criminal psychology that indifference makes
the most dangerous enemies that society
has.
in the instance quoted, as in many others,
the police and prosecuting officials are
blameless. They did their part. But there
is little encouragement for them and their
kind to lay such as Travers by the heels,
only to see them awarded a puerile measure
of punishment by a sentimentalist who, on
his own admission, cannot bring himself to
believe evidence which speedily convinced
a jury of men of the tvorld. As to the
deterrent effect of such a sentence on others
emulating the deeds of Travers, the less
said the- better.
— ♦
A Queer Smell from New' Guinea.
Serious allegations in regard to the dummy-
ing of ex-enemy plantations in New Guinea
have been made by Senator Chapman
(S.A.), who has been visiting the Territory.
The story of the returned traveller is usu-
ally incredible, and the Senator’s statement
that only 30 of these plantations are being
worked by genuine Returned Soldier holders
seems more incredible than most. Never-
theless, stories of dummying are so wide-
spread and persistent that a commission,
with powers to compel the production of all
documents and agreements, may yet have
to be appointed, unsatisfactory as com-
missions generally are.
To begin with, the circumstances sur-
rounding the original calling for tenders to
purchase these expropriated properties were
—well, peculiar. At first Returned Men
were practically excluded from tendering.
There was a hasty re-shuffle of arrange-
ments in view of a general protest, and a
certain proportion of the properties offered
were reserved for men with war-service, the
original proviso that no combination of in-
dividuals could tender being relaxed in
their favor. As a result, Returned Men
were able to form syndicates to tender for
properties beyond the reach of individuals.
At the same time, a good deal was heard of
the formation of syndicates, in London and
elsewhere, to tender for these expropriated
properties. This roused so much comment
that one concern felt it necessary to explain
that no former enemy interests would be
allowed to acquire a controlling interest in
its shares on flotation. What might happen
after flotation was not dwelt on, and with
solemn assurances from the Federal Gov-
ernment that all would be well, the matter
of getting rid of the ex-German plantations
went solemnly forward to the end.
It. is possible that Senator Chapman’s
leg has been pulled—there are plenty of
non-friends of the Returned Soldier in New
Guinea, and not all of them with German
affiliations either. But taking into considera-
tion the whole series of incidents in con-
nection with the disposal of these pro-
perties, there does seem some ground for
the Senator’s suspicions.
“The Listening Insect”: Telegraphy
suffers from bad seasons, like farming.
Whenever you see the aurora australis
brightening the southern sky, you can be
sure that operators as far north as Singa-
pore are cursing the day they were born.
The beam hasn’t had experience of all the
periods of the year yet, but at present it
is suffering from hay fever induced, it is
believed, by sunspots bombarding the sys-
tem with a highly irregular beam of their
own. According to a London account, it
isn’t fulfilling the stipulation of a seven-
hour day at 100 words a minute, although
a month ago it was working fast nearly
all round the clock. Varying the wave
length has improved matters, but to make
this effective means erecting fresh towers
of steel and electrical mirrors, and that
would take time and money. Lots of people
are asking themselves whether in time of
war an unfriendly Power couldn’t emulate
the sun,
— ♦
Archbishop Mannix, in one of his peri-
odical outbursts, has been collecting funds
in Melbourne for De Valera’s republican
party, which presumably means to insurrect
if it thinks it sees a chance. In addition he
displayed the Irish flag at a Sunday meet-
ing, expressed a hope that he “would live to
see Ireland outlive the British Empire,”
declared that Ireland would never be satis-
fied with anything less than a completely
independent republic, and spoke with bitter-
ness of “the foreign king” at London. He
was present at the Sunday meeting, he
said, “as a Catholic” and “as an Australian
also.” But if George V. is a foreigner in
Ireland, then Daniel M. of Ireland is a
foreigner in Australia and anywhere else
out of Ireland. And foreigners shouldn’t
interfere in this country’s domestic concerns,
which include the maintenance of the
empire in which it is a partner. There is,
in any case, a great lack of proof that Free
State Ireland really wants complete separa-
tion, since that would leave it wholly re-
sponsible for its own defence and might
lead to severe restrictions on its wandering
people as foreigners who wouldn’t abstain
from meddling in British (to say nothing of
Australian) affairs.


HOTEL SYDNEY
Management: Edward T. Cheeseman.
Accommodation 500 Guests.
The Holiday City’s Largest
and Most Modern Hotel.
Hot and Cold Water and Telephones in
Every Room.
The Hotel Valet Service Cleans and
Presses Day and Night.
There are Electric Pressing Rooms
Throughout for the Use of Lady Guests.
Half-acre of Delightful Roof Gardens.
80ft. above the City Traffic.
A Floor Especially Reserved for Ladies.
Inclusive Tariff from 19/6
Bed and Breakfast from 13/-
Telegrams: “Otelsydne.”
Telephones: City 9772 (16 lines).
SILVER
In the
Square
Glass
Botfle with
GREEN LABEL
EQuaJly famous ao'e BOLS Vei'y Old
HOLLAND GIN in tke Stone Bottle.
a.rvd BOLS Supei'l’irve LIQUEURS * *
Queensland
Insurance Co.
Ltd.
Head Offices
Pitt & Bridge Streets,
Sydney.
The Largest
Australian Company
transacting
Fire, Marine, Personal
Accident and Sickness,
Burglary, Live Stock,
Public Risk, Boiler Ex-
plosion, Workers’ Com-
pensation, etc., etc.
POLITICAL
POINTS
Customs Minister Pratten is back from
the United Kingdom, where he has been
working hard to persuade British manufac-
turers to open branch factories in the Com-
monwealth, so that they will be inside the
tariff for tlieir benefit, and the wages will be
expended here for ours. If all the promises
he has received hold good it is reckoned that
£5,000,000 of British money will be invested
here, that £2,000,000 a year will be paid out
in wages, and that £10,000,000 worth of new
goods will be produced annually to help our
people to supply their own needs. It is a
big achievement for one man.
The fatuous inquiry into something or
other in connection with “good old Piddo,”
of the N.S.W. “Industrial Commission,”
still drags on. Nobody seems to know what
it’s about. Apparently somebody suggested
that Piddington was a politician and that
his “Court” was really a kind of Parlia-
ment ; and it hurts Piddington’s vanity
shamefully when anybody suggests that he
is anything less than a superior Judge. All
the same, he denounces as infamous the sug-
gestion that he was going to Honolulu on
a holiday. The conference he was to have
attended was, it seems, strictly concerned
with his job. Yet nobody noticed any of
the other Judges attending that conference
as part of their job.
A deputation of women called on Victorian
Attorney-General Slater to ask if he could
induce the Federal Government to get a
move on with that uniform marriage and
divorce law which has been bogged for 26
years. Slater was naturally not very hope-
ful. Australia got a uniform bankruptcy
law in 1924. but it seems as hard to start it
as if it were a Queensland train.
Tasmanian Ministers get a rise of a couple
of hundred apiece—to £1250; the Premier
goes to £l5OO. The Assembly recommended
£l5O extra for the Speakership, but the
Lords chopped off £lOO. The Assembly dis-
agreed, and the Lords adjourned without
finalising the matter. Meanwhile, the
Speaker may, if he likes, draw his official
salary of £5OO, plus his new salary as an
ordinary member of £4OO.
There being a strike* at Hoskins's iron-
works (Litligow. N.S.W.), the State coal-
mine management hastened to give the
required assurance that it would lend a
hand by stopping Hoskins’s supply of coal.
It probably made little difference, but it
illustrated the Lang-Horsington state of
mind —such mind as there is.
Canadian rejoicings over securing a seat
on the League of Nations Council would be
louder if the Dominion hadn't scraped into
a place by the skin of its teeth. It takes 25
out of 48 votes to elect a new non-permanent
member, and the Canucks mustered up 26.
Belgium, which had to stand down and seek
re-election, required by the rules a two-
thirds majority, and got within three of it.
Cuba and Finland polled more heavily than
either Canada or Belgium. But the election
stiffens Canada's claim to be considered as
a nation and not merely an Imperial appan-
age.
The weakest point in the settlement of the
Queensland railway strike was the accept-
ance of the usual no-victimisation clause. It
is about time that was thrown overboard.
If an employer has suspected one of his dogs
of killing his sheep or his hens, and if pre-
sently he discovers the hound leading a pack
of other hounds on that mission, it isn’t re-
garded as much of an excuse for the dog that
he didn’t operate alone but put himself at
the head of a pack. Unions do quite right
in insisting on no victimisation of officers
who carry out members’ instructions; but
men who defy union policy—which includes
acceptance of arbitration awards —are mere
insurrectionists, and ought to be prepared
to take what is coming to them.
While the Vic. Labor Government has
steadfastly refused to countenance tin-liare
gambling, taking the rational view that there
is already as much gambling as the country
can stand, the ephemeral Lang Government,
through Gosling, its Quaker Chief Secre-
tary, has issued betting licenses to a num-
ber of tin-hare cos. promoted by bookmakers
and other Friends of the Workers. _ This
although a tin-hare clause introduced in the
recent Gaming and Betting Bill was struck
out by Parliament. A Sydney magistrate
has now ruled that bookmaking at the tin-
hare meetings is illegal. Charged by Dr.
Webb, his opponent in Oatley, with having
sanctioned orgies of tin-hare gambling with-
out moral or legal excuse, Gosling whined
that “the matter was sub judice.” There
are some precious political humbugs in
Lang’s party, but Gosling is the most sapon-
aceous and insufferable of all.
When President (Premier) Cosgrave dis-
solved the Dail one of his colleagues (the
Posts and Telegraphs man) intimated that
he was down-hearted and would take a rest
from office. “Ireland’s problems,” this pes-
simist wrote, “are its disappearing popula-
tion, its rapidly sinking bank reserves and
its adverse trade balance of £18,000,000.”
In 1925-26 the Free State Treasurer reck-
oned it would be necessary to find £1,501,214
“by borrowing or otherwise,” and it wasn’t
found “otherwise.” In 1926-27 he spoke of
a similar necessity for £6,599,998. For
1927-28 President Cosgrave proposed to start
with a £10,000,000 loan, saying that Ireland
is a “young country,” and must have money;
AT THE CAFE DE WAITABIT.
“Complaint is made that the Vic. Parliament has been sitting for 11 weeks and has done nothing
but argue.”
THE CUSTOMER: “A most extensive bill of fare, but the service is rotten!!”
THE STAFF: “It’s all right, mister—we’re just deciding which way to cook your eggs.”
.
to spend in its “early years.” Yet a deli-
nite Irish kingdom is claimed as dating back
to 500 b.c. ; and when a chicken is aged 2427
years it ought to rank as a hen.
rni,„ t»-/-I-. TTninn rVma-rcss de-
•ij J . i i. o ff oil fripndlv relations and
communications with the minority of sav-
•Kmc ‘it Moscow tlierebv following the
example of the Government, which stopped
diplomatic intercourse some time ago. One
nasty feature of the Soviet push to which
British trades-unionists object is its habit
of seizin®- and imprisoning harmless people
as “hostages” for other people. Unpalatable
also is its announcement that unlimited
execution without trial is part of its code,
and that anv foreigner in Russia is outside
the law Mid the persistent declaration
that the minority Government has a mission
to force or beguile the world to follow its
dishevelled example has led to so much
cheeky interference as to be a, nuisance.
Maoriland has set a good example to this
country by deciding to tax Hollywood films
3d., instead of Id., a foot. If Australia
trebled (or, better still, quadrupled) its far-
cical duty of a foot, Gibson’s concern
and Hoyt’s would make pictures on their
own account —they control about 140
theatres between them, and are building more
at a brisk rate —and Huckerby’s union would
get thousands of additional members, and
it would be no longer necessary to send mil-
lions in gold across the Pacific to pay
Adolph Zukor, Carl Laemmle and the rest.
Also the cinema theatre would foster good
Australian sentiment instead of teaching the
youth of the country to talk and dress and
behave like the wealthy lower orders of a
foreign land.
In an erratic moment it has been decided
that Labor in Australia should institute a
boycott of United States goods, not out of
a patriotic desire to help Australian indus-
try, nor because this country is importing
a great deal more than it can pay for, but
because the Yankees executed two Italian
communists who were found guilty, despite
many appeals, of murder and robbery. The
boycott isn’t likely to be any perceptible
success, because , many people won’t sympa-
thise with it and the rest will presently
forget about it. Still, if it should, by some
rare chance, irritate Uncle Samuel into a
boycott of Australian loans, it would be an
interesting and unexpected event
Vic. Upper House, led by H. H. Smith,
tacked on a few words to the Spencer-street
Bridge Bill to provide for the construction
job being done by contract. The Assembly
rejected the amendment, and the Landlords
decided to insist, adjourning for a fortnight.
At Works Minister Jones’s instance, Premier
Hogan compromised. Pie said it was pro-
posed to have the foundations done by day
labor, at a cost of about £60,000, and to call
for tenders: for the superstructure after
obtaining a confidential quote from the Rail-
way Department; if this were lower than
any private tender the Railway Department
would get the .job. Hogan’s statement satis-
fied the Assembly, and it will probably satisfy
the Plush House.
The N.S.W. Government threatens to put
a stack of new electors on the roll for
Premier Slang’s electorate. They are the
inmates of benevolent institutions; and the
concentration of the scattered ballot-papers
of the unfortunates is expected to make
1000 or 1200 more possible Government sup-
porters available in the electorate where the
Premier rages. Many of the inmates, by
reason of their incapacity, have to give open
votes, which is to say that the _ way they
suffrage is known to the returning officer,
who is a Government nominee. Whether
this fact will make any difference if it is
an “all-in” or kerosene-tin ballot is a matter
for speculation.
Sydney City Council, whose credit is less
notable than its discredit, wants £4,000,000
in a very few months to keep it from sink-
ing in a sea of troubles. Bloated capitalists
in England have offered it £2,000,000 at 5
per cent., giving £92 10s. for each £lOO bond,
and it is hoped that the whole lot will be
found there. It is claimed that Sydney is
abundantly solvent because the council can
legally put the rates up much higher than
they are. Unfortunately the ratepayers, like
other people, pay in notes or their equiva-
lent, which are good enough tender with
which to pay local interest or wages or bills
for materials; but the capitalist abroad must
be settled with in gold, which the notes
won’t buy. That adverse balance of trade,
the result of producing too little and luxuri-
ating in foreign products too much, is a
spook which hangs around everywhere.
Queensland seems a favored spot from a
mildly Red noint of view. It has no peer-
age, established church or Upper House.
Its one house is elected by adult suffrage,
its land is 94£ per cent, public property,
and its wage-earners have the “blessing” of
the 44-liours week. In the name of social-
ism it has tried almost every possible variety
of State enterprise and made a mess of
many of them, and a scandal of some. It
enjoys old-age pensions, invalid pensions,
baby bonuses, arbitration, unemployment in-
surance, local government and public owner-
ship of railways. It has almost a monopoly
of the one big Australian industry which is
protected by prohibition of imports, and it
lias enjoyed 12 comsecutive years of Labor
rule. Yet the people who make all the row
in Queensland clamor more intensely for
some sort of revolution than those in most
of old Europe.
After four years of solvency, on paper,
the Victorian railways have produced a
deficit (£47,450), despite the fact that the
department tried to raise an extra £530,000
by increased charges. And the management
says that if it had been allowed to put in
items which should have been put in (depre-
ciation being probably one of them) the loss
would have appeared as £896,000. In 1925-
26 the S.A. Railway Department announced
the staggering deficit of £4,038,520, of which
£3,982,314 was “accumulated and deferred
charges.” In other words there was a clean-
up, or partial clean-up, of old ghosts and
losses, and the skeleton or part of it burst
out of the pantry.
The last “Quarterly Summary” sets forth
that during 1926 there were 256 industrial
disputes in N.S.W. and 104 in all the other
States. In N.S.W. 1,111,230 work-days
were lost, and 199,031 days in the other five
States. Wages lost were £1,229,410 in Lang’s
State and £186,408 in the States which
aren’t troubled with Lang. The number of
workpeople involved was 96,640 for N.S.W.
and 16,394 in the rest of the Commonwealth.
For the first quarter of 1927 the pre-emin-
ence of Lang’s country wasn’t quite so
marked. It lost 536,521 days’ work and
£591,460 in wages through disputes. Queens-
land. which also enjoys Labor government,
lost 231,013 days and £197,479. The other
four States and two Territories lost jointly,
25,111 days and 21.132 quid. The N.S.W.
Premier has been Slang-Whanging a good
deal about the industrial peace which his
regime has brought about, wherefore, of
course, everybody knew it wasn’t there.
A legal gent had argued in the Federal
Arbitration Court that a country which has
to pay for much of its imports out of loans
should go slow on the shorter-hours luxury.
Judge Beeby chipped in
The foreign debt increase argument does not appeal
to me. So long as the capital which we get from
abroad is used for expansion and development, it is
in an entirely different category from an ordinary
national debt.
It is seemingly quite useless to tell Mr. Beeby
that Australia doesn’t get “capital from
abroad” —that what we borrow in London
stays there accumulating compound interest.
And it seems equally useless to tell him that
the fact of about 25 per cent, of the total
Australian liability being nominally repre-
sented by railways and tramways doesn't
put us in “an entirely different category.”
Many countries also have national railways,
and some of them are much more national
than Australia’s, being built with local
money. Judge Twoby’s misinformation would
be his own affair if it didn’t spur him on to
do disastrous deeds with other people's
affairs
In the 12 months to June, 1926, the
Federal money department spent £3,109,530
out of trust funds, paid £285,897 into trust
funds, put about £2,000,000 into sinking
fund, paid off £1,000,000 of debt and spent
£7,778,856 of loan money on public works
and sundries. In addition, £324,224. was
charged to “war loan fund.” Therefore it
looks as if the Commonwealth is getting
out of the mudhole and into it at the same
time, and more in than out. It would be
better and simpler if the Treasurer paid for
all his public works out of revenue and had
a humble tuppence over.
“SAY, DIG!”
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“Say, Dig, do you remember ’ow you always
used to say
When the shells was burstin’ round us, an’
there was Hell to play,
‘Don’t drop yer bundle, cobber, for we’ll
have our share of fun
And be heroes in old Aussie when this
flamin’ war is done’?
“But they got you, Dig, at Albert, an’ you
sleep the long sleep, mate.
An’ me-—well, ain’t it funny, you can call
it luck or fate,
I’m a waster an’ a nuisance who can’t earn
’is daily bread,
An’ a burden on the country. .. .and you’re
‘the Glorious Dead.’ ”
victoria.
P. T. FINDLAY.


MELLOW
COOL
AND
ALWAYS
ALIKE
ARDATH TOBACCO CO: LTD: LONDON
THE BEST
CIGARETTES
FOR
YEARS AT
20 for 1/6
SOCIETY
“and it's
printed with
WIMBLE'S INKS”
“Rounds”; Judge Hickman Molesworth.
whose widow has just died in England, had
the unusual experience of being tapped for
a loan while his (the Insolvency) court
was sitting. A man came into the
press-box, borrowed a piece of copy-paper
from John Morton, of Melbourne Herald,
and wrote something on it. It was handed
up to his Honor by Macdermott (son of the
famous Townsend Mac.), his associate.
Molesworth read the note, and asked Mac.
in a whisper who had sent it. Mac. pointed
DOMESTIC TACTICS.
MRS. FFEAR : “Jane, would you try to have breakfast ready at 9.30 for a few days- until
Mr. Ffear can obtain permission to start work at 10.30?”
to the writer, who was still in the press-
box, though not a scribe. The Judge smiled,
shook his head, and the stranger departed.
Subsequently Macdermott retrieved the piece
of paper, and this is what it contained:
“My dear Hickman, —Can you lend me half
a crown?” Molesworth didn’t know the
chap from a crow.
* * * *
“Mulgo”: A Nationalist organiser, work-
ing through a timber-getting region in the
Gosford (N.S.W.) district, found Bill hav-
ing a hot argument with a red bullock, which
had been giving him trouble all day. The
organiser was doubtful about Bill’s political
views until he heard that person address the
troublesome quadruped. “As if we haven’t
enough blanky strikes without you joinin’
in,” he snorted. Then, swinging the whip
viciously, he yelled, “Stand up, you blanky
Communist!” The organiser marked Bill
down as “good” and passed on.
:Js :j: # ❖
“G.8.L.”: The story of Narcisse Peltier
(B. l/9/'27) recalls the experi-
ences of one Joseph Forbes,
otherwise “Timor Joe.” In 183 S
Captain Watson, skipper of the
schooner Essington, was told by
.a Dutch trader that he had seen
an Englishman in captivity
among the islanders of Timor
Laut (Yamdena). H.M. brig
Britomarte was despatched
under Lieut. Ivuper, R.N., to
look for the man, but no trace
of him was discovered. Captain
Watson then decided to search
on his own account, and on
March 31, 1839, lie reached
Yamdena. An Englishman was
there, sure enough, and after
some trouble with the treacher-
ous islanders he was taken on
board the Essington. He had
been a member of the crew of
the schooner Stedcombe, which
had been captured by the
natives in 1825. All hands had
been murdered except two boys,
one of whom had died. Forbes
was the survivor; he had almost
forgotten his native tongue, and
his body was badly scarred from
a habit his captors had of plac-
ing hot embers upon him when
they were displeased. In later
years he was a resident of Wil-
liamstown (Vic.), where he died
at an advanced age.
“Bad Australian”: The Chinese hawker
who was knocked in a heap by an electric-
current that had only a mild effect on a
number of Aussie workmen (B. 15/9/’27)
must have. been differently constituted from
a Celestial I saw some years ago at a Vic-
torian country show. A vendor of canned
lightning was tying the lads in knots with
juice from an old-fashioned portable battery.
Tlie Chow showed deep interest in the pro-
ceedings, and was easily persuaded to take
hold of the handles of the machine. The
proprietor switched the current on. “Littee
mo’,” said the Chow. He got it. “Littee
mo’!” he repeated. The man behind the
thunderbolt winked at the boys and shot the
full current into Wun Lung, who mildly
repeated his request for more, without so
much as batting an eyelid. When Billo
recovered from his astonishment he explained
things to tlie crowd: “Struth, blokes, I
mighter known it. Yer see, Chows lives
mostly on rice an’ cabbitch an’ a bit o’ fish,
so they ain’t go no iron in their blood. Now
if a bloke ain’t got no iron in ’is blood,
w’ot in ’ell is the ’lectricity goin’ ter work
on?”
“C.Q.” : The Digger was justly famed for
his initiative, but the average Australian
street mob is wonderfully lacking in the
virtue. A motor-van, out joy-riding, smote
a tram in St. Ivilda-road and burst into
flames. A man and woman inside the vehicle
were in danger of being roasted; but the
CAUTIOUS.
“If I were to take you in my arms, rain kisses on your lips and ask you to marry me.
would you consent?”
“Well—I might.”
“Then I think I will just take you in my arms and rain kisses on your lips.”
crowd viewed the proceedings with the de-
tached interest of a Stadium audience watch-
ing two foreign wrestlers. After the game
had proceeded for more than a minute a girl
broke the rules by bursting into the ring
and trying to drag the imperilled pair away.
Then everybody wanted to do something.
* * * *
“Nakhoda” : A man who claimed to be a
leper was a recent apparition at a Sydney
police-station. The John Hop in charge,
having had no acquaintance with the species,
refused to arrest him, and he had to go to
several authorities before anybody would
take him seriously. Yet it isn’t so long since
that anyone who cared to take a walk along
the cliffs between La Perouse and Maroubra
might have run into a score of lepers. Their
ouly pastime was fishing. One day a rumor
went round the district that a patient, in
making a long cast, had thrown his arm away
along with the line and sinker. For some
time afterwards fish was off the .menu at
Long Bay breakfast-tables.
# * * *
“Flagwagger”: My occupations have been
varied enough, if not particularly remunera-
tive. Since I left school, 1G years ago, I’ve
been boy machinist, apprentice at a windmill-
factory, “six-bob-a-day tourist,” pottery em-
ployee, full-blown machinist, rabbit-trapper,
eucalyptus-leaf cutter, fruitpicker, bag-
mender, carpenter’s laborer, club-steward
(relieving), navvy, poll-clerk, bookmaker’s
“mitty,” erecter of telegraph poles, canvasser
for advts., racecourse gatekeeper and free-
lance journalist. The longest post-war job
lasted 16 months; the shortest, one day.
Betweeen whiles I got a bit more schooling
at Gordon College, Geelong.
* * * *
“Carisbrook, Jun.”: “G.B.W.’s” par. about
the conscience-money paid by' an ex-ganger
to the Westralian Commissioner of Railways
(B. 25/8/’27) brings to mind a queer
missive preserved in the Vic. Fisheries
Department. The writer asked forgiveness
for having, when a boy, killed native-bears
in the close season. Attached was a
stamped and addressed envelope for the letter
of absolution.
* * * *
“C. Coral”: The wreck of the Joseph,
lying off Horn Island, Torres Strait, has an
interesting story. She piled up in Endeavor
Strait, and the crew cleared off in alarm,
the Prince of Wales Islanders having de-
stroyed the mariners of several ships that
had got too close to their preserves. The
wreck was sold, and the new owner got her
afloat and started to tow her round to
Thursday Island. On the way she ran
ashore, and was smashed up. Her quarter,
of good Baltic pine, lay for some time
among the mangroves, but when the rush of
gold-seekers to Horn Island took place the
timber came in handy for the building of
humpies. In fact, the new camp was con-
structed largely from the old Joseph’s
remains.
* * :|: *
“Centurion”: Even if they are abolishing
the cavalry and mechanising the service into
a lot of dashed robots, the iconoclasts of the
British General Staff cannot entirely shake
off the ancient traditions. They have been
obliged to add the supervision of mechanical
auxiliaries and similar modern gadgets to
the duties which, from time immemorial,
have been the peculiar province of the
Master-General of the Ordnance. This tine
and beefy title was born when the intro-
duction of the Crecy bombards made it
necessary to appoint someone to boss that
arm, and it has existed in all its glory to
the present day. When mechanisation came
in it was feared that new titles might have
to be devised for its overlords, as in the case
of the Air Force. But wiser counsels pre-
vailed, and the oldest and most mouth-filling
rank in the British Army has been re-
tained.
* * * *
“C.Q.”: During the Queensland railway
strike hundreds of passengers were left
stranded on a Melbourne suburban platform
owing to the non-arrival of a train. A
deputation to the stationmaster got an
evasive answer, and a rumor that the Vic.
railwaymen had gone out in. sympathy (lew
round. The crowd was in the middle of an
indignation meeting when the train blew
in. Two sparrows which had selected the
overhead wires for their spring residence
had caused the delay.
❖ ❖ ❖ ❖
“Ivayeff”: Another dangerous practice
among amateurs of wireless (B. S/9/’27)
is removing the eartli-wire and holding it in
the mouth. The reception is alleged to be
improved, but so also is the capacity to
receive a severe electric shock, due to the
better connection to earth through the moist
mouth. A defective reading-lamp or radia-
tor, handled while thus earthed, can pass a
severe enough shock through, the body to kill.
A youth tinkering with a crystal set was
recently electrocuted in this way. Shocks
passing through the upper part of the body
are much more dangerous to life than those
which traverse the lower limbs. A simple
safeguard exists. Barth all portable appa-
ratus by means of an extra wire, which
deadens any apparatus whose insulation fails.
❖ ❖ ❖ ❖
“Peter Pimple” : A few A.I.F. men visiting
Wootton-under-Edge, an old-world village in
Gloucestershire, were shown a dinkum speci-
men of the vanishing race of bellmen. Halt-
ing at each corner, the old fellow would
give his bell a couple of good ding-dongs and
hold forth in this fashion : “God Save the
King! Route, from the Blue Wren Inn to
Main-street, Lorst, one pair gold-rimmed
heye-glasses. Reward, two shillin's and six-
pence. God save the King!” Then, with a
couple more ding-dongs, he would move on.
SOCKS.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Aunt Mary sits beneath the tree
That on the green lawn throws its shade;
On sock by sock, unerringly,
New heel or toe is deftly made;
While tenderly she dwells upon
The things that now are past and gone.
The callow youth who came to woo
When spring shone on her girlhood years
Treads as a stately gallant who
A knight of chivalry appears;
About him gay adventure leaps
Within the dreams Aunt Mary keeps.
Yet uncle was a heftier swain
Who won her brightness as his prize.
We thought him crabbed ; but once again
He lives in glamor in her eyes.
We thought him mean—but, anyhow,
He’s grown to be an angel now.
Aunt Mary talks; and midst the dross
And all the wastage of our lives,
The tale of failure and of loss,
A world of paragons survives.
Our errors all are put aside;
Our vanished graces beautified.
Dear lady, in whose kindly thought
This world of Arcady was born,
Healing the holes that Time has wrought
In lives their travelling has worn,
I love to hear you, fancy-free,
Darning the socks of memory.
n.s.w.
HAMER.


“Liss” (N.Q.) : I can recall two incidents
which, to my mind, settle conclusively this
revolver-pistol controversy in favor of the
revolver —as a stopper at any rate. During
an enemy daylight raid 1 shot a Fritz at a
range of about 15ft. with a Smith and
Wesson .455. After the party had been
repulsed, I examined the poor devil, who had
dropped flat on his back. The bullet had
entered just below tlie left cheekbone
and had removed almost the whole of
the back of his head. The high-
velocity nickel bullet of the automatic
would not make as certain as that.
The other occasion was during the
“retirement” of the Fifth Army in
March-April. 1918. in which I took
part, being in the Tommy Toe Emmas.
At the time our job was blowing
bridges behind the stragglers. One
night our D.T.M.O. was mistaken by
the sentry for a Fritz; at a range of
some 20yds. lie was hit under the
shoulder-blade and knocked flat on his
face. The weapon this time was a
Wcbley. No automatic could do that.
'i* •!•
“Paul”: Jim and I had jumped a
rattler going to Ludd, and sneaked
into an empty compartment. As the
train was moving there entered from
the corridor the filthiest Gyppo that I
have seen. “Imslii yallali!” Jim
roared. “Get out, you black cow!”
The “Gyppo” was not perturbed. “It’s
quite all right, old chap,” he said.
“Anyhow, what are you doing in this
carriage? It’s reserved for me.” He
. then produced from the copious folds
of his stinking clothes a small valise,
and soon became the immaculate Eng-
lish officer again. He had been on
secret service behind the Turkish lines.
The good sport didn’t turn us out.
X X X
“Naklioda”: A piquant episode
brightened the life of East Malvern
(Melb.) the other evening. Two thieves
entered a resident’s house in his
absence and started exchanging their
ancient duds for his. When he re-
turned suddenly they had got as far as
stripping themselves to the buff and
were trying on different pairs of
trousers before the glass. The house-
owner grabbed one man and put him
in charge of two passers-by, but he
escaped. The other man performed
the surprising feat of getting over the
back fence while holding on with both
hands to keep his pants in place. For
the rest of the evening reports floated
into the police-station from all quart-
ers of old ladies being stuck up by
partially-clothed apparitions begging
for shirts, singlets or even a bit of
bark, and stating that they had been
abandoned in their unclothed state by
drunken boon companions. By mid-
night the descriptions were numerous
enough to give the impression that
half the male populace had gone mad
and was discarding its top hamper.
Then the reports suddenly ceased. Pre-
sumably the fugitives had escaped into
coats and vests.
* * *
“Jim Domino”: Names like “The
Eulo Queen” and “Jimmy Ah Foo”
will live long in out-back history. An-
other publican who is achieving bush
celebrity is “Slogger.” Fighting used to
be Slogger’s hobby, but nowadays he
would rather show you his gold teeth.
Years ago a shearer slipped away
without paying his bill. Slogger chased
him up, and in the ensuing fight was
well trounced. Home again, Slogger
trained until he was thoroughly fit;
then he made his way to a shearing-
shed where his rival was “blowing it
off.” The second scrap was as the first,
only more so. Thereupon the victorious
shearer handed over the money he owed.
Slogger accepted it with his customary
“Good on yer, boy!”
x * * *
“Safety First” : Sudden zeal for the well-
being of others is epidemic, and likely to
break out, like influenza, in various parts
of the world at the same time. England
reports a mysterious person who appears
from nowhere, distributes handfuls of cash
among the nearest bystanders, and disappears
again into the unknown. The same spirit
is observable in N.S.W., where numerous
individuals are rushing about conferring
salary-increases on policemen, tih-hare
gambling licenses on bookmakers, water
supplies and railways on country districts,
and gangs of road-workers on localities
whose highways have been suddenly dis-
covered to be in urgent need of repair. In
some cases promises only have been dis-
tributed, but these, of course, are as good
as banknotes. The motive in all cases is
obscure, but most will agree that the gifts
are bestowed in the spirit which moved many
a mediaeval monarch to endow a cathedral.
* * x *
“Lao-dah”: The Herald brought a farmer
down to the Show who had never seen Mel-
bourne, but there was one thing the winner
probably hadn’t bargained for. That was
the publicity. What he ejaculated when he
saw his first skyscraper; how he felt cross-
ing S wanston-street; his opinions on heifers,
rams, butter, eggs, jam and pickles at the
Show no sooner fell from his lips than they
were in the next edition of the journal. At
the same time his wife and family were
being shown around by another scribe, who
took down their words of wisdom and wonder.
But if the paper expected to get some re-
freshing copy from the rustic group it was
disappointed. They were a thoroughly prac-
tical lot and not in the least awed by the
slick ways of the city. They didn’t unbend
until they got on to the Show Ground, and
there it was the reporters who were shown
around.
* * * *
“Strict Veg.”: Melbourne seems to have
an attraction for the creatures of the wild.
The other evening I saw a rabbit in Queen’s-
parade, near the heart of the city, and in
Postoffice-place recently a street-cleaner
killed a black snake four feet long. He had
the body to show as evidence, whereas a
telegraphist who reported a kangaroo in Col-
lins-street on his way home after night work
one Saturday lived under a cloud until
Monday morning’s paper stated that a
doctor’s pet had escaped.
x x * X
“Windsor”: There is, perhaps, nothing
remarkable in pinching money to buy a
motor-cycle, but Hobart has struck an un-
usual extension of the idea. A prisoner
before the ‘Criminal Court pleaded guilty
CRAMPING HIS STYLE.
“Mr. Bruce is not satisfied with his official residence at Canberra. It cost £14,000 to
build, has five reception rooms and is surrounded by beautiful grounds. Plans are being
prepared for a new residence, which will allow Mr. Bruce to entertain in a large way.”
EXPENSIVE STANLEY: “A mere shack, old man—you’ll have to build me
something' bigger. I must get you some photos of Buckingham Palace.”
to laying hands on 50-odd quid belonging
to his employer, a Chinese market-gardener.
I-Ie wanted the cash, he said, for a motor-
cycle. And he wanted the motor-cycle, he
added brokenly, to enable him to attend
religious service regularly at a church some
miles from his home.
* x * *
“Two Seas” : I had just carried a bucket
of menavellings to Dennis, and was listening
to him enjoying it, when the organiser’s
“Good morning” startled me. He put a
small suitcase on the pig-bucket and started
to open it. “Nothing to-day,” I said hur-
riedly ; “the missus got tea from the regular
man last week.” He looked hurt. “I’m not
selling anything, my man. I’ve come to have
a little talk with you about the political
situation.” I hate to be called “my man,”
even when I’m valeting pigs. “Of course,
you’ve heard what the Labor party intend
to do if they get into power again.” I said
I hadn’t heard the latest. “You own this
farm, I presume.” “Yes.” “Married man?”
“Yes.” “Any family?” “Yes.” The organ-
iser flourished some leaflets he took from his
suitcase and said impressively, “You’ll lose
the lot if the Labor crowd get in again!”
“What, the missus, too?” I exclaimed in-
credulously. “They’ll strip you of every-
thing you possess !” he assured me solemnly.
Just then a fat bloke got out of the car
and joined us. “This is Mr. Slipe,” said the
organiser; “vote for him and he’ll save your
home.” The organiser went into lurid
details of wliat would happen to me if
“these bloody-minded revolutionists” got into
power. Mr. Slipe said nothing. I remarked
that it was the first time I had heard of
all these coming horrors. “Can you read?”
the organiser inquired. I admitted that I
could read print if there were not many
long words to tackle. "Do you ever read
the newspapers?” "Sometimes, when I get
one wrapped round the groceries.” He
handed me a few leaflets. “Read those, or
get someone to read them for you.” Mr.
Slipe was still saying nothing. I got a
leaflet upside down and frowned at it.
“But where does it say that piece about
losing the home and the missus?” I inquired.
® ee ' ) v ’ e have to contend against,
murmured the organiser aside to Ins
em pi oyer- Then Mr. Slipe spoke for the
fi rs t and last time. “Come away,” he said;
“this cove is pulling your leg.”
* * * *
„ TT c, ... „ „ , , .. ~
Harry Stottle : Few people have the evil
luck that attended tli e portly and respect:
«"• re '! red . lr0 ” m0 " s ! r ' o£
suburb ' Seeing him start out tor a tnal
spin in his new Horace-Oxford, a neighbor
handed him a bottle of whisky to deliver to
a mutual friend in the local private hos-
pital. Five minutes later Asterisk, descend-
ing a steep hill, jammed liis foot on the
accelerator instead of the brake. The car
took the bit, mounted a cutting, and after
tearing down a panel or two of fencing
finished up with its wheels in the air. Out
of the wreckage crawled Asterisk, to find a
ring of spectators all sniffing ecstatically.
The untimely arrival of the police road-
license for six months. “Simply reeked of
it, yer Worsliup,” explained the cop, and
even the fact that Asterisk is Chief Guy-
rope of the local Rechabite Tent failed to
save him.
t? Hi ❖ %
“S.T.S.” (Lond.) : A Court has been sit-
ting on one of the delightful law points that
crop up in this country. A taxi-driver was
charged with leaving his car unattended.
He pleaded a local rule which says a driver
may go away for a meal provided he is not
first on the rank. The police said that when
they found his car it was the only one there:
and a pleasant argument followed as to
whether a solitary specimen can be con-
sidered first in point of place. As usual,
commonsense settled it. Defendant, it was
shown, was seventh on the rank when he
left; and, though an unexpected rush of
visitors carried off every car in front of (and
behind) him, this was held to be not his
fault.
* x * *
“Clerk”: The stillest of luck came the
way of two enthusiastic youths at the North
Melbourne football ground. A forward
having scored a goal, the two barrackers
swept their hats from their heads in their
excitement. Behind them stood two plain-
clothes ’tecs, who noticed that the perforated
initials on the hatbands had been slashed
patrol resulted in Asterisk’s appearance at
court, a fine of a tenner, and a suspended
with a knife. Then one remembered that a
“bowler” and a felt hat had been amongst
the articles missing from a dance hall a few
nights before. Questions followed, and a
visit was paid to the home of one of the
barrackers, where the other articles were
discovered. The luckless pair don’t know
whether to blame the man who invented the
machine for initialling hats or the player
who kicked the goal.
* * * *
“Ah Ivee” : Has anyone seen a remittance
man lately or is the type extinct? I will
always remember a choice specimen who
hung out in a North Queensland mining-
town pub. He went to England to enjoy a
fortune lie had inherited. Inside two years
he was back again broke. Asked how the
money had gone, he gave a list of what he
had spent on horseracing, yachting, theatri-
cal people (“the corps dc ballet, begad!”),
cards and the like. “You’re two thousand
pounds short,” said an old tin-scratcher.
“Where did that go?” “Down my bally neck,”
came the drawling answer; and no one
doubted it.
“Up Top” : One of the Gulf island
mission cutters brought to T.I. a lady
teacher much troubled about cock-
roaches. She had left her teeth the
night before on the cabin cupboard,
and the ’roaches had wired into the
vulcanite with distressing results. A
dental misfortune upset also a teacher
from Mo a Island. She quitted St.
Paul’s with the natives’ curiosity un-
satisfied as to whether she was able
to remove her teeth “alia same teacher
before.” The cutter Banzai misbe-
haved, and the lady was dreadfully
sick on deck. She looked up in agony
of mind to see a grinning “boy” hold-
ing out to her a set of grinders. I
suppose both girls are now jazzing
down south, where niggers, molars,
sea-sickness and cockroaches trouble
them not.
* * *
“De Tomkiennes” : The case of the
motor-driving Countess of Kinnoul,
who knocked down a London pedes-
trian and then told him to go to
Gehenna, is gratifying evidence that
our old nobility is not so effetely
modern as has been alleged. A fore-
runner of the Countess was the fine old
gentleman whose favorite pastime it
was to sit at his club window and
“watch the rain fall on the damned
people.” And one recalls Melbourne,
with whom Sydney Smith began a con-
versation by remarking “My Lord, let us
presume everybody and everything to be
damned.” Then there was the beauti-
ful Duchess of Devonshire, who, as
reported in George Selwyn’s letters,
turned to the footman behind her at a
great dinner and shrieked: “I wish to
God you’d stop rubbing your great
greasy belly against the back of my
chair.” It is a grand old tradition,
and I, for one, am grateful to the
dame who has done her best to uphold
it in an age of flux and change.
* *, *
“A.II.B.”: Another relic of earliest
Maori times has just been lodged in
the New Plymouth museum. This is
the stone anchor of the canoe Toko-
maru, one of the seven canoes which
brought the first migrants from
Hawaiki. The Tokomaru was beached
at the mouth of the Mokau River, and
on the heads above the anchor lay for
centuries. Surveyors running a road-
line moved it at one time. The natives
thereupon hid it, and trace was lost
for years, but ploughing operations
turned it up again. A follower of the
old prophet Te Whiti, who caused
most of the Maori War troubles in
Taranaki, lately grabbed the anchor
and removed it to Pariliaka, where the
Te Whiti followers still have their
•stronghold. At the instance of a
Judge of the Native Land Court the
tribes decided to place the anchor in
the museum, with a proviso that if
they can ever agree on a suitable place
in their own settlements the relic shall
return to its own people.
:J: ❖ ♦
“Dinkum”: Many and varied are
the efforts made by Orientals to get
away with Northern Territory finches,
which make such a wonderful display
of dainty color. The finches, it is re-
lated, are retailed in Japan at any-
thing up to £9 a pair. A Chinese
seaman, searched at Darwin recently,
was found to be wearing under bis
ordinary clothes a mosquito-netting bag
attached to his body by means of tapes at
the neck and waist. In the bag were a couple
of dozen finches. Reporting the. matter to
the Collector of Customs in Brisbane. the
Darwin officials mentioned that the Chinese
fainted when the discovery was made. Nj>
mean artist, it would seem.
* * * *
“Static”: “Chevroford” (B. 15/9/’27) is
right about sparks of static electricity on the
body of a car causing petrol to light. The
owners of tank waggons distributing petrol
in bulk to the filling-stations take no risks.
They hang a chain from the petrol-tank ana
this, trailing on the ground, allows the static
electricity, however generated, to get away.
* * * *
A SPRING DAY.
[For The BuMjEtin.]
White flecks of cloud like snowy sheep
Wander the blue fields of the sky.
The mother clouds are fast' asleep,
Or wrapt in contemplation lie,
Content to see the cloudlets stray
Like little careless lambs at play.
The rays of sunlight come to rest
Upon the green earth’s nulsing breast;
They stoop to lay each golden head
Upon her bosom comforted.
And e’en the curving azure skies
Lean low to kiss her quiet eyes.
Victoria. Etiiel Martyr.
WATTLE-SONG.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
A bird sang low within her nest;
A simple song at the end is best.
Bloom on the brow of Springtime set,
Gold of the gold, I love you yet!
A whisper came on the wind o’ the west;
A simple song at the end is best.
Sing to the bloom that the wattles jet,
Gold of the gold, I love you yet!
Springtime buds are the tenderest;
A simple song at the end is best.
Then sing to the bloom in the Springtime
met:
“Gold of the gold, I love you yet!”
Strong hand must falter, strong will must
rest;
A simple song at the end is best.
Then take this song, ere my lips forget:
Gold of the gold, I love you yet;
Gold of the gold, I love you yet!
N.S.W.
ROBERT MURRAY.


. .
' :i . »r-
-ite
mm
WT 11111
: :
m
i
im
a
m*
&
Wf
i ••• \
ftCi
in
I
I
Wilt
oau*
r
md Sc&k^W^mf
SB
J* 4 * -5 . ¥ . .
*wm& m*
*C
C§g|q (Sh€tiai
m
<Wj
M H
'“*W
ImSml
PROS
WCJft
SCO
IN
: H.&.R
s
■giai
V -••■■••".-
: BOHE H
mm
THE DI/TILLEE*/ AGENCY LTD
EDINBURGH /GOTLAND
Y
-SUP!
*s:
/--■ ■ SR R
. - -Yf >- ■■ •■.
MMMMM


A ustralian- Scottish Delegation
to the Motherland
Inquiries and applications may be addressed to the undermentioned
Secretaries:—•
Queensland: W. W. J. Craig, Esq., C/o Burns, Philp & Co., Ltd., Brisbane.
N.S.W.: Mr. Wallace Nelson, Australian-made Preference League, 28 Martin
Place, Sydney.
Victoria: A. Gilchrist, Esq., 65 Elizabeth Street, Melbourne.
S. Australia: W. E. Grant Walsh, Esq., Paringa Buildings, 13 Hindley Street,
Adelaide.
W. Australia: The Secretary, Caledonian Society, Perpetual Trustee Building,
St. George’s Terrace, Perth.
Approximate Sailing Dates, 1928.
Brisbane.. Dept. 27th March.
Sydney .. Arr. 29th March, Dept. 3rd April.
Hobart .. Arr. sth April, Dept. 7t,h April.
Melbourne: Arr. 9th April, Dept. 11th April.
Adelaide.. Arr. 13th April, Dept. 14th April.
Fremantle: Arr. 18th April, Dept. 19th April.
Colombo.. Arr. and Dept. 28th April.
Suez Arr. and Dept. Bth May
Port Said. Arr. and Dept. 9th May.
Plymouth: Arr. 18th May.
for Ql(es t> Pucldin&.use
these Lr&.luscious
4
m
1
m
Ss
slemmed
Cleaned
Seeded
READY FOR USE
SwaitoiH tfCUieltf
SEEDED
raisins
“Sucre”: The Woodlands, a Bowen
(N.Q.) house with a history, lias changed
hands once more. Four acres of beautiful
tropical trees topped off by a fine old resi-
dence went for £2600. Colonel Sandrock
of Rockhampton, was the original owner,
and Pope Cooper, afterwards C.J., made
The Woodlands his summer house during
his term of office as N.Q.’s Supreme Court
Judge. Twelve years ago I inhabited the
place myself, and visions of growing man-
goes, custard-apples and tomatoes for afflu-
ent steelworkers, and then selling out to the
Government, cheered my laboring hours. But
strikes and grasshoppers beat me, the steel-
works did not materialise, and another
relative of Colonel Sandrock came south.
* :!= :!: *
“Delia”: Nothing that The Bulletin’s
horse or hound historians have yet recorded
can equal the pathetic talc of a bulldog told
by the cableman. The unhappy animal had
PREPARED.
“So glad you brought an extra man with you.”
“Simply had to! Tom flats out so early now that I’ve got to
carry a spare.”
apparently been crossed in love, or else he
had embezzled heavily from his master's
meat-safe and done it in at the dog races.
Anyway, he was found with his head in the
gas oven, having turned on the gas. Saved
by sympathising friends he was again found
in the same compromising position, and as
gas costs money even in the land Billy
Hughes comes from —-did I mention this hap-
pened in Wales? —he was carefully watched.
His next move was to throw himself into a
tub of water, in an effort to drown himself.
He was rescued once more, in spite of
struggles and bad language, but so deter-
mined a sooner is sure to get his own way
in the end. Probably he ’ will bite a poli-
tician.
* * ’ * *
“M. Bolus” : The latest method of cancer
treatment is by injection of lead-glycine.
Observations made at Birmingham showed
that among lead-workers the cancer figure is
very low indeed, and the use of lead to dis-
solve cancer cells followed. The experiments
are being made under the supervision of Dr.
Blair Bell. It will be months before defi-
nite results can be given, but it has been
announced that of three inoperable cases
treated at Birmingham Hospital two are
showing improvement; the third patient,
whose growth was reduced “from the size
of a fist to that of a walnut,” died from
lead-poisoning. Some slight success has fol-
lowed the use of this treatment in Aus-
tralian hospitals, but no detailed results are
yet possible. At present the method cannot
be used for cancers of the stomach, brain
or lung, as haemorrhage following dissolution
of the cancer is usually fatal in these posi-
tions ; but Blair Bell believes that this diffi-
culty can be overcome, and that the greatest
hope of finding an absolute cure for cancer
lies along the lines he has laid down.
“S.V.D.” : The most taciturn mate I have
had was Jack Devine, a grape-picker at Mil-
dura in 1920. In a determination to speak
as little as possible he was aided by two
of the buttons sported during the 1916 con-
scription campaign; on one, surrounded by
flags, was the word “Yes,” and on the other,
within a map of Australia, “No.” He wore
one under each lapel of his coat, and when
asked a question needing a Yes or No would
invariably display a button. On Saturday
afternoons he saved much lapel-turning by
placing the “Yes” button on the outside.
“Ivonge”: In a reference to Thursday
Island’s jubilee (B. 21/7/’27), “C. Coral’’
mentions that H. M. Chester was the first
Government Resident there, and later hoisted
the flag in N.G. “C.C.” might have added
that it. M. Chester has in Papua at this
date a grandson and two great-grandsons, all
three born in Papua.
* * * *
“Darrapinta” : An Adelaide man has built
his own five-roomed brick bungalow. And he
was otherwise engaged for five days of the
week from 7.30 a.m. to 5 p.m. After the
evening meal he used to walk nearly three
miles to his block
of ground. There,
by the light of a
hurricane lam p.
aided by the elec-
trics at a railway-
station 300 yards
away, and by the
moon when it w r as
shining, he laid the
foundations a n d
built the walls
single-handed. All
the water used he
pumped from a
bore. Then he put
on the roof. By
this time his work
was talked . about,
with the result that
two good-hearted
toilers came along
and did the plaster-
ing—they reckoned
a man of his type
deserved helping.
The owner then
laid the floors,
hung the doors,
and so forth. The
house was finished
three and a half
y ears after he
started on it. For
appearance it com-
pare s favorably
with the surround-
ing residences, but
the workmanship
in it beats every-
thing in sight, bar-
ring the Govern-
ment school. Yet
the man had had
no previous experi-
ence in house-build-
ing ; moreover, he
is left-handed, and
when he began the
task was 70 years
of age! He’s a Cousin Jack, which perhaps
explains his pluck.
“Caveman” : What part of the Australian
coastline holds the record for shipwrecks?
The Leeuwin, Kangaroo Island and Cape
York have claims to the evil distinction, and
many medium and small craft have been
lost in facing the heavy surf at the entrance
to the coastal rivers of N. S. Wales. But
the worst place of all, I think, is King
Island, in Bass Strait. That rocky outcrop
has been the graveyard of over 30 sailing-
ships. Another record worth fixing is the
worst period for shipwrecks in Australian
history. I name July 12, 13 and 14, 1866.
In those three days 17 vessels came to grief
at different points, in most cases with loss of
lives. That was the time when the Cawarra-
THE JOY RIDE.
BAGGS: “Look, darling, I've got something pretty serious to tell you — I’m a married
man!”
LADY: “My heavens, how you scared me! I thought, you were going to say we had run
out of petrol!”
was wrecked on the Oyster Bank, near New-
castle, and only one of her GO souls was
saved.
* * * *
“P.X.”: Bellmen V I’ve seen and heard
five at one time in the main street of
Broken Hill; that was in the days when the
world was wide and the local sergeant of
police used to put the gloves on at the circus
in the evening. I think the first of the
chorus to arrive on the field was a cullud
gemman who had the bad luck to pitch his
tent on a reserve; the Town Hall is on the
site to-day. The cullud gemman had a
flag and a signboard outside: “Cundasamy,
Bellman and Public Scribe.” Of the other
four, two didn’t take public custom; they
belled only their own businesses. And then,
of course, the press must push its nose in,
and start a rag and canvass for advts., the
pioneer editor of the town being Alexander
Riddel, who was a queer mixture of Presby-
terian misister, mining prospector and
journalist. A. G. Hales, who has since
turned out more novels than any other Aus-
tralian, was in those days not sure whether
to be a journalist, a carpenter or a pros-
pector—he was something of all three —and
each one’s versatility got on the other one’s
nerves ; with the result that Riddel and Hales
had public Sunday-niglit debates on most
things. The title of one, I remember, was
“Did God make little apples?” which turned
out to be a rough-and-tumble on the story of
the Creation.
“C.Q.”: The city-bred notion that Aus-
tralia is a fully-explored country receives
a shock from one of the results of Group-
Captain Williams’s great flight of 13,000
miles—the longest ever made in the Empire.
When flying over Melville Island (N.T.)
Williams’s fleet discovered three large rivers
which have never been charted.
* * *
“777”: “S.V.D.” (B. l/9/’27) suggests
that there may have been instances of a
Digger-son being in direct command of his
father. A young subaltern of the 39th Bat-
talion asked for the transfer of his father
to his own unit with the filial idea of getting
dad out of the front line. When acquainted
with his son’s intentions pa went off pop.
“I’m blanky well old enough to look after
myself,” he growled. So the transfer wasn’t
effected, but dad (he was a grand-dad, too)
was eventually invalided out of the line and
returned to Australia.
* $ Hi
“Sea Nomad” : There must be huge profits
in opium smuggling. A friend of mine
a ship’s officer, had an elaborate proposal
put to him while he was staying a couple
of days at a Hong Kong hotel. The “boy”-
in-waiting was to introduce a suitcase into
his room. A ’rickshaw would take the officer
and suitcase (the boy would see to that)
to the waterfront, where a sampan would
bear them to the steamer. Arrived on board
the officer was to hail the quartermaster:
“Mr. Hardtack, please put my suitcase into
my cabin. I’m spending the night ashore.”
He was to make sure that the suitcase went
straight to the cabin ; then he was to go to
another part of the ship for 10 minutes.
When he returned and opened the suitcase
lie would find 200 notes where a few minutes
before were 200 tins of opium. Before de-
dining without thanks he was told that
European and Chinese spies were making the
turning of a dishonest penny very risky for
the opium gentry, and that it required deep
thought to circumvent them. The suitcase
of a responsible officer, it was explained, was
unlikely to be suspected, especially when he
was returning almost immediately to spend
the night ashore.
* * =!= *
“Herodot”: A new drink has come into
favor in slummy parts of Sydney. It is a
mixture of beer and methylated spirits; a
pint of “moth.” to a large billy of beer.
The combination has three or four times the
strength of branded whisky, and when it is
introduced at a push-party the mildest assem-
bly is likely to end in a riot. A variant is
made by mixing methylated spirits and cheap
wine or “pinkie”; the action of this brew
is even more deadly. In Surry Hills it is
known as “murder soup.”
# :!: t- *
“Borom” : One of the most difficult feats
a mechanic can be called upon to perform is
to open a safe the keys of which are not
available, especially when the article is the
work of first-class makers. Some years ago
Melbourne crooks bodily carried off a small
safe of the “ball” type. They labored for
nearly a week to get the safe open, knowing
that cash and other valuables were inside, and
then called in an ally with some experience
of welding. lie decided to use thermit, and
this compound ate through the metal in no
time. But it destroyed a quantity of bank-
notes in the safe, and melted thirty gold
sovereigns into a solid mass. Thermit, a com-
bination of aluminium and iron, which pro-
duces intense heat when properly mixed, is
almost useless to the ordinary cracksman,
however. It can rarely be employed under
the conditions in which he has to work,
while it calls for skill of a highly technical
nature.
•-!• * * *
“Bihai”: My dentist, having pulled out my
last molar, gave me the benefit of a mono-
logue on the decay of the'teeth of civilised
folks as compared with those of uncivilised
or semi-civilised races. This is a fallacy so
far as Papuans are concerned, for as a race
they suffer as much as whites from bad
teeth. I have examined hundreds of plan-
tation-boys and others, and, at an age when
the teeth should be perfect, most of them
had decayed teeth or spaces where grinders
had been gouged out. either by the sufferer
himself or by an obliging friend. I have
seen the same in Solomon Islanders and
New Hebrides boys, and desert Arabs, com-
ing into southern Algerian hospitals for
attention, had mouths just as hideous. Inci-
dentally, if I eat honey or anything excep-
tionally sweet, my false teeth (or the gums
under them) ache, like the non-existent
limbs mentioned in B. 8/9/’27.
CANDLES.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
When I am sick, they set about my bed
Tall candles and a little fussing clock;
They bring me light to measure Time’s dull
tread—
Instead I see three grinning satyrs mock!
Three candles there are, set along the rim
Of polished oak behind the carven stool ;
Three waxen tapers, peering, pointed, slim.
And mirrored in the gleaming oak a pool
Of restless light the climbing tall flames
spill.
Spying at me through all the fevered
night.
Clear morning finds them, foolish, staring
still,
Till someone creeps to quench their spend-
thrift light.
When I am sick, I know that I shall find
Sometime ’twixt sleep and waking, candle-
spies
Flicking their furtive shadows on the blind,
Leering at me with yellow-slittcd eyes!
Within my whirling brain the small clock
ticks ;
Beyond the long brass foot-rail shadows
slide ;
Maliciously a candle leans and licks
A blue-tipped tongue, but cannot reach my
side !
Three candles —silly when you see them so
By day along their shelf. And yet it
seems
Night brings three grinning devils in a row
Watching my sick self drowning deep in
dreams!
S.A.
MADGE R. C.


Will
/
/
N
mmm
■HHH
$ .
. i
■
aiMiMftiaiiii^Miliii
on
>
■
1
:
■s
I
I
I
• : -s'
1
:
:/ ■
P*“
SJ/
Wi
cc
The Better Australian Hat
Sold by all the Best Mens Stores
throughout the Commonwealth.
David Storey & Co. Limited, Sydney
(Wholesale and Shipping Only.)
£
'N
4
*7)
f*4
4>_
ICJI1 C J1
■S '<
*<Aftpe t j^isTg^M
3


IT PAYS TO INVEST IN
Pioneer
1 LEATHER \
BELTING
il
ip
THE LEADER SINCE 1858.
This famous power transmitter has maintained the leading position for nearly 70 years.
Made and Guaranteed by
J. C. LUDOWICI <a SON, LIMITED
Pioneer House, 117 York Street, SYDNEY,
INTERSTATE and NEW ZEALAND AGENTS:
VICTORIA: Benson Bros., Ltd., 107-109
Queen’s Bridge Street, Melbourne.
QUEENSLAND: Iloey, I'ry, Ltd.,
Edward Street, Brisbane;
Burns, Philp & Co., Ltd., Townsville
SOUTH AUSTRALIA: John Mclvell and
Sons. Timpson Street. Port Adelaide
WEST AUSTRALIA: Horace Summers,
Howard Street, Perth.
TASMANIA: Charles Davis, Ltd.,
Elizabeth Street, Hobart.
NEW ZEALAND: Friar, Richards St
Upton, Auckland. Blackburn, Smith
* Co.. Christchnrcti.
NOBEL-GLASGOW EXPLOSIVES.
The Standard of Quality throughout the Empire.
Monobel
Samsonite
Gelatine Dynamite
Gelignite
Blasting Gelatine
Dynamite
Safety Fuse
Detonators
Cartridges
Hadfields
(AUSTRALIA) LIMITED
The largest and best-equipped Crushing Machinery Works in Australia.
JAW CRUSHERS —DISC CRUSHERS—GYRATORY CRUSHERS.
PORTABLE CRUSHING PLANTS COMPLETE QUARRY PLANTS.
Hadfields’ Manganese Steel Wearing: Parts for all makes of Crushers.
Works and ! Alexandria, Sydney, N.S.W.
Foundries j Bassendean, Perth, W.A.
Branch [ 422 Collins Street, Melbourne, Vic.
Office j T. & G. Building, Brisbane, Q.
The WILDCAT
COLUMN
Holden’s Motor Body Builders, Ltd.
(Adelaide). The deficit to begin with was
made up of goodwill and other intangibles:—
Towards
June, Profits.* Dividends. Reserves. Deficit.
£ £ £ £
1920.. 43,881
1921.. 12,634 8 p.c. = 10,400 2,234 41,647
1922.. 34,755 10 „ „ 13,000 21,755 19,892
Reserves.
1923.. 93,003 10 „ „ 13,000 80,003 60,1 LI
19°4 116 936 r >l 'eh 8 P- c - = 9,002 1
19.4.. 11.. J6b x Qrd 1Q ;; 19 500 80,908 141,019
Pref. issue exes., £7526 J
Dropped out of reserves, £14,322 126,697
m SUB 5 Pref. 8p.C.=10,000 ) nQonlo orno, ,
1920.. 185,506 | ()rd {132,943 259,640
moe Icn nc” j Pref. 8p.C.=16,000 1 „„„ „, An^Q
1926.. 957.{ ord 15 ~„ 03,619 { 81,338 340,9/8
Premiums on shares,' £78,000.. 418,978
1927.. 180.688.] ( 88 638 507,616
’"lncludes net additions to depreciation and other
reserves.
The extraordinary development mapped in
the table is the outcome of mass production
combined with careful finance. Of course,
circumstances have been kind; a long run of
good seasons accompanied by lavish borrow-
ing, free spending and a boom in the motor
trade explains a great deal. Paid capital,
which at June 30 was nearly 6| times greater
than in 19k 1, has thus been able to win every
attractive returns. Last year’s net profit
was over 14 times that of six years back,
and equal to 25.5 p.c. on average capital
compared with 25.7, 41.8, 38, 71,5, 26.7 and
9.7 p.c. back to 1921. But that is counting
as profit net additions to depreciation and
other reserves ; and those additions may not
always have been true profits. Here is a
detailed view of the accumulation of reserve
funds for the past two years:—
1926. 1927.
Buildings, plant and machinery.. £141,396 £194,402
Taxation 60,145 60,662
General 50,000 134,117
Insurance 10,000 10,000
Bad and doubtful debts .. .. 5,000 10,000
Undivided profit . . .. .. 74,437 98,435
Total £340,978 £507,616
Whether that is all surplus earnings the
“Wild Cat” cannot say. Plant may require
to be written off in 10 years. In the pre-
sent state of trade it is comparatively easy
to write off 15 p.c. p.a. instead of 10 p.c.
The additions to these reserves are probably
amounts in excess of actual and current de-
preciation requirements, put by against the
days when it may not be convenient to write
off more than 5 p.c. Or, again, they may be
really contingency reserves, created to provide
for unexpected renewals which new mechani-
cal developments may call for. So many
factors enter into such accounts as these that
the declared profit can be no better than a
rough estimate, and it may take years to dis-
cover whether the estimate has been too great
or too small.
Here is another view of the development
of the business:—
1923. 1925. 1926. 1927.
Paid capital.. £130,000 £492,500 £668,000 £824,000
Liabilities .. 164,607 289,584 255,839 491,722
Freeholds . . 140 j8?o 326,551 398,212 475,046
Plant and
machinery.. 53,779 235,153 305,077 416,605
Stock . . 120,222 418,730 541,663 837,480
Book debts . . 38,228 85,670 54,994 133,973
l n v e stments,
cash, etc... 2,164 5,557 7,970 9,184
The new capital was not nearly enough to
finance the bigger turnover, so the board went
outside for an additional £235,883. That,
and more, went into stocks, thus making the
more or less liquid surplus (£488,915)
stronger by £140,127. Book debts (up
£78,979) were light compared with turnover.
Work at Woodville and South Adelaide has
become so heavy that there is talk of re-
opening the King William-street factory,
which was closed a while back with the
intention of selling it. New departments are
constantly being added. The spring-cushion
making and electroplating recently under-
taken are profit-earners. Now bonnets, mud-
guards, etc., are to be made. To buy more
plant and provide for further extensions
250,000 £1 B prefs. were offered and heavily
over-subscribed. That was since the accounts
closed, and when all the money is in paid
capital will be £1,074,000 in 200,000 A prefs.,
250,000 B prefs.—each class carries a cumu-
lative 8 p.c. and ranks for capital in the
order stated —and 624,000 ords. Last year’s
rates of distribution will then call for £51,088
less than the £180,688 netted at June 30.
Again the big plant was called upon to do
more work than it could comfortably handle.
During the year a contract for the manu-
facture of bodies for Morris-Oxford and
Morris-Cowley cars was added to the already
big list of orders; and in the summer months
the machines were at it for seven days a
week, and then three shifts had to be worked
in some departments. The result was that
the year's estimated output was exceeded by
nearly 7000 bodies. Here are the details
1922. 1925. 1926. 1927.
£ £ £ SL
Turnover . . 357,643 1,945,825 2,251,281 2,831,442
No. bodies
produced .. 4,190 26,587 32,398 46,936
Wages . . 75,869 559,451 652,566 886,530
Despite the heavy overtime, wages ate up
only £lB 18s. per body compared with £2O
2s. in 1926. To help finance the work more
capital had to be got in, and 156,000 £1 ords.
were issued in March at a premium of 10s.
Most of the new money went into plant,
which was quickly at work, and the year’s
turnover was four times average capital com-
pared with 3.6, 4.3, 4.5 and 5.9 back to 1923.
The business has been largely built on plant.
llow to quicken and cheapen production has
been the constant thought: of the manage-
ment.
The board takes a bright view of the out-
look, and expects that last year’s turnover
will be maintained, despite the dulness in
the motor trade —incidentally it expects an
improvement next month. That the co.
is soundly managed, has a good organisa-
tion, does business in all the States and
caters for tram-car and other construction
apart from body-building places it in a favor-
able position as a profit-earner. What has
to be weighed on the other side is whether
anything like the present output of cars will
be required under normal conditions, and
whether profits of this concern will not be
seriously affected as soon as the works cease
to operate at capacity. The premium on the
March issue disappointed the market, and
under the influence of duller conditions the
Price of the scrip has continued to ease. The
ords. had recent business at 335. 9d., return-
ing the investor only a shade under 9 p.c.
on a 15 p.c. div. basis. Net tangibles
amounted to 365. 3d. af-tcr allowing for the
Prefs., including the new issue. For the
very well protected A prefs. 225. 3d. is paid,
and the B s can be had a little above par.
* * * *
The Union Bank of Australia, Ltd. :—
Dividends Writ-
Deb., Profits. (14 p.c.). ten off. Reserves.
£ £ £ £
1918.. 326,160 280,000 2 099 293
1919.. 349,321 280,000 20,000 2,148!ei4
Premiums on new shares, £500,000 2,648.614
(15 p.c.)
1920.. 458,102 375,000 20,000 2,711 716
1921.. 516,340 375.000 20.000 2,833,057
Premiums on new shares, £400,000 3 233 057
1922.. 536.261 412,500 20,000 3’.336’818
1923.. 552,894 450,000 ZiZV’i\ c >
1924.. 550,291 450.000 3,’540,’003
Premiums on new shares, £600,000 4n40’003
1925.. 590,399 487,500 4,242’902
J 926.. 627,611 525,000 50,000 4,295’,513
1927.. 627,426 525,000 50,000 4,347,939
i hat small drop in declared net earnings
is just a reminder from a cautious board
that the outlook was not as good as it had
been a year earlier—the balance was struck
at February 28 and the sheet presented in
London in- July. Although advances moved
up £2,310,829 compared with a growth of
only £503,396 in 3926, the expansion in the
year’s visible income was a more £12,61.7
compared with £03,131 in the previous term.
Here are the figures :
1925. 1926. 1927.
Income .. . . £1,430,714 £1,493,845 £1,506,462
Exes 840,315 866,234 879,036
Net profit .. £590,399 £627,611 £627,426
Before I*, and L. results are written into
tlm sheet provision is made for bad and
doubtful debts and other contingencies.
That shareholders have never failed to receive
an_ annual div. in the past 90 years is suf-
ficient evidence of the great care with which
the very conservative board has sanded down
the bumps and puttied up the cracks before
allowing the public to take a view of the
widespread business.
Trade movements are reflected in the
balance-sheet figures :
Liabilities.
AT 1925. 1926. 1927.
£ otes . •• •• £721,031 £772,245 £592,084
Deposits .. .. 33,995,484 32,038,237 32,545 478
Bills, etc. . . 4,005,166 3,668,443 4,378,574
Assets.
Liquid assets . . 20,060,779 17,368,613 16,148 847
Advances . . . . 26,274,751 26,778,147 29,088,976
Premises .. . . 391,553 390,178 388,752
The drop in note issues is due to more sluggish
movement of business in Maoriland. On the
other hand, strenuous Australian importing
has helped the bills figures along. Also it
has reduced the amount of money at call
in London; and balances due there fell
away because of the shrinkage in the value
of exports. Between the two factors liquids
contracted £1,219,766. Tliev represented
Bs. 7d. of every £1 owing to the public com-
pared with 9s. 7d. and 10s. 4d. in the two
preceding years. Depositors could see 23.1
p.c. of their money in cash and at short call,
and that was a strong position. The demand
for money last year sent advances up with
such a rush that they were 93.5 p.c. of
deposits at February 28 compared with
83.5 p.c. a year earlier, but the strain has
oeen eased a good deal since then. Yet, when
the books were ruled off, the bank was hold-
ing only £4 15s. 7d. of the public’s money
for every £1 belonging to shareholders; so,
looking at things from that point, there was
then no need for more capital.
Last July nominal capital was increased
to £12,000,000 by the creation of 100,000 £l5
shares to be issued at the discretion of the
board. Of the £l5 two-thirds is a reserve
liability callable only in the event of liquid-
ation ; and that liability doesn’t worry the
investor who observes the very corpulent
reserves, now £847,939 in excess of paid
capital. But as far as the “Wild (-at” knows
the board has never made a bonus issue; the
policy since 1880 has been to charge stiff
premiums—£6 per share on the last issue, in
1921. The market values the scrip on a 5
p.c. basis and pays £l5 for the £5 paid
shares.
Mercantile Mutual Insurance Co.
(N.S.W.) :
Added Capital
Net to Re- and Re-
June, Profits. Dividends. serves. serves.
£ £ £ £
1918.. 24,857 12* p.c. = 15,625 9,232 191,147
1919.. 22,080 12* „ „ 15,625 0,455 197,602
New capital, £25,000 .. .. 222,002
1920.. 25,471 12* p.c. = 18,750 6,721 229,323
New capital, £77,983 .. .. 307,300
Premiums on new shares, £27,408.. 334,714
1921.. 34,474 10 p.c. - 30,287 4,187 338,901
New capital, £127 .. .. .. 339,028
Premiums, £B5 .. .. .. 339,113
1922.. 30,562 10 p.c. = 30,305 257 339,370
1923.. 18,305 7* „ „ 22,733 334,942
Assets written up, £50,950.. .. 391,892
1924.. 35,681 10 p.c. = 30,311 5,370 397,262
From inner reserves, £BOOO . . 405,262
1925.. 39,092 10 p.c. = 30,311 8,781 414,043
1926.. 46,113 10 „ ~30,311 15,802 429,845
Premiums on shares and profit on
sale of freehold, £71,58.3.. 50-1,428
New capital, £30,640 . . . . 532,068
1927.. 51,012 10 p.c. = 33,375 17,637 549,705
This table has been recast. Hitherto profits
were padded with the tariff bonus paid to
policy-holders, which was then shown as an
appropriation; but these payments' were
deducted before P. and L. figures were
written into the sheet at June 30 this year.
The result of the change is a clearer view of
the position and nothing important has been
lost. Early in the term the headquarters free-
hold in Martin-place, Sydney, was sold to the
Colonial Mutual Life for £250,000, and the
Mercantile is building a new home (cost
not stated) a few doors down Pitt-streqt.
It bought the Martin-place property in
1914 for £122,000. However, as the book-
value has been written up, reserves benefit
only £61,000-odd.
The N. S. Wales Workers’ Compensation
law came into operation at the beginning
of the term, and there was uncertainty about
the risk; in fact, there still is. To solidify
the position 40,853 new shares were issued
at a premium of 15s. each. That made paid
capital £333,750 at June 30, and brought
in £lO,OOO-odd of premiums. The 10 p.c.
to shareholders called for an extra £3OOO,
but it was handed out with comfort, the
£1.7,637 that remained being equal to two-
thirds of the year’s net earnings. That made
reserves (£215,955) 50.4 p.c. of the year’s
net premium income, and there is possibly
a bit more strength hidden in free-
holds. For many years total visible accumu-
lations were below the 40 p.c. margin
usually accepted as safe; but even then there
were no shudderings.
Claims, partly the result of bush-fires in
N. S. Wales, were heavy last year; but the
fine crop of Workers’ Compensation pre-
miums helped to push receipts up £53,448 —
the growth in the previous year was only
£17,372. The losses were £44.190 heavier,
the ratio (57.2 p.c.) being 11.5 p.c. above
the average for the past 10 years. Here
is the underwriting experience since the
beginning of the century:—
Net Ex- Loss Expense
Premiums. Losses, penses. Rate. Rate
1900. . £32,658 £9,068 £18,489 27.7 p.c. 56.4 p c
1910.. 64,515 21,656 35,078 35.1 , 56.8
1915.. 124,472 50,664 61,458 40.2 „ 49 3
1920.. 177,683 67,212 94,083 37.8 „ 52 9 ”
1923.. 239,914 124,233 112,623 51.7 „ 46.9 ”
1924.. 308,818 157,301 132,674 50.9 „ 42.9
1925.. 357,188 186,834 147,901 52.3 „ 414
1926.. 374,560 200,835 155,476 53.6 ~ 41.5 ”
1927.. 428,008 245,025 156,923 57.2 „ 36.0 ’’
Considering the increased volume of business
handled, a bigger bite for taxation and an
extra £3221 to the fire-brigades, the man-
agement did remarkably well to keep the
growth in exes, down to £1447. The profit
on underwriting was £26.060, equal to 6 p.c.
compared with 4.8, 6.2, 6.1 and 1.3 p.c. for
the four preceding years. Interest and rents
brought in £24,952, or £3312 more than in
1926, thus making the net earnings 15.2 p.c.
on average capital compared with 15.2, 12.9,
11.8 and 6 p.c. back to 1923. Years ago the
Mercantile was an ultra-conservative under-
writer ; now it is as energetic as most in
the hunt for new business. The results of
wide policy-writing have shown up sharply
in the loss rate. To meet the drain on profits
from this and other sources the bonus is to
be clipped off those risks which have not
hitherto shown a satisfactory margin.
The property deals have affected balance-
sheet movements: —
1923. 1926. 1927.
Paid capital .. . . £303,110 £303,110 £333,750
Liabilities . . .. 60,088 121,644 199,036
Freeholds . . . . 104,600 231,363 145,400
Mortgages . . . . 23,888 17,204 17,237
Public securities, etc.. . 166,666 241,611 491,250
Book debts . . . . 51,2 7 3 69,645 107,028
Cash, etc. . . . . 13,879 27,077 12,533
Liabilities include unadjusted claims, which
probably account for a big part of the
increase there. All the spare money went
into public securities, which represented
66.5 p.c. of the total assets. At June 30
funds were 128.4 p.c. of the year’s premium
income; in addition policy-holders had the
protection of £111,250 of uncalled capital.
Confident in the eo.’s ability to pay 10 p.c.,
the market gives 265. 6d. or thereabouts for
the scrip, 15s. paid. At that price the
investor gets a shade over 51 p.c. on his
money and has net tangible security amount-
ing to 245. Sd. per share.
* * * *
The Trustees, Executors and agency
Co. (Melbourne): —
To Re- Re-
June, Profits. Dividends. serves, serves.
£ £ £ £
1918.. 14,450 10 p.e. = 9,000 5450 65,147
1919.. 13,075 10 ~ „ 9,000 4075 69,222
Written off premises, £5OO .. 68 722
1920.. 14,564 12 p.c. = 10,800 3764 72.486
1921.. 14,352 12 „ „ 10.800 3552 76,038
1922.. 14,921 12 „ „ 12,100 2821 78,859
1923.. 18,306 13 „ „ 15,000 2706 81,565
1924.. 21,951 14 „ ~ 16,800 5151 86,716
1925.. 24.388 14 „ „ 18,900 5488 92,204
1926.. 24,615 14 „ „ 19,600 5015 97,219
1927.. 22,472 14 „ „ 19,600 2872 100,091
Income (£67,626) was £2517 better, includ-
ing a profit of £644 on the sale of War
Loan stock, and exes. (£45154). including
£l5OO to the provident fund, were £46t>
heavier, thus leaving net profit £2143 poorer.
Nevertheless, the outlook is rosier than it
has ever been. During the year the N. 8.
Wales Parliament gave the co. full trustee
powers in that State, and a harvest of trust
business was at once gathered—largely from
the Itiverina districts —as this comparison
shows:—
1905.. £7,787,043 1923.. £14,866,551
1910.. 9,013,807 1925.. 15,776,909
1915.. 10,936,858 1926.. 16,328,516
1920.. 13,533,081 1927.. 17,941,016
That big leap of £1,612 500 dwarfs the best
previous record—£sB4,343 in 1923. And
even that does not show the progress made:
actually the amount of new business won
was £2,330,500; but, as against that.
£718,000 of capital funds were distributed
during the year. A noticeable feature in
the investment of trust funds was the in-
crease of £182,500 in mortgages. With the
gradual disappearance of tax-free issues
from the list of Government stocks, public
securities are losing much of their attrac-
tiveness for big incomes. In addition to
£260,000 of uncalled capital, clients have the
protection of £240,091 of shareholders’ funds
in freehold (£56,125, worth more), mort-
gages (£8100) , book debts, etc. (£3650) and
cash and public securities (£183,515).
The board has never handed out any
bonus scrip, the policy being to make new
issues at par; the last was in August, 1924,
one for three. In July that year the 50s.
shares, 10s. paid, were selling at 21s. A
buyer at that figure has since received 71
p.c. p.a. on his money, and the same shares
are now worth 30s. on the market. But at
that price the purchaser heavily discounts
the future. The immediate return is only
4.6 p.c., and it would require a par issue of
one for one (10s. paid) to bring the return
to 7 p.c. on a 14 p.c. div. basis.
* * * *
The Queensland Woollen Manufac-
turing Co. (Ipswich, Queensland) :
Dividends and Written To Re- Re-
June, Profit. Dividend Tax, Off. serves, serves.
1917.. 3,610 7i p.c. = 2,883 1595 13,733
1918.. 6,506 74 „ „ 2,953 1271 | 10 „ 0n
1916 war-time profits tax £3535 ( l-.,45U
1919.. 16,289 15 p.c. = 5,906 4533 5850 18,330
Dividends forfeited . . . . 100 18.430
Reserves capitalised .. £18.750 I OQIJr
1920.. 19,694 15 p.c. = 8,859 1600 9235 ( ’
Dividends forfeited . . . . 113 9,028
1921.. 16,264 20 p.c. = 11,953 1544 2767 11,795
1922.. 11,523 13$ „ ~ 7.968 1653 1902 13,697
Taxation reserve taken in . . 1211 14,908
1923.. 7.817 11s p.c. = 8,004 1699 13,022
Dividends forfeited . . . . 72 13,094
Loss.
1924.. 1,936 1§ p.c. = 1,254 9,904
Profit.
1925.. 5,480 4 „ „ 2,839 1961 680 10,584
1926.. 5,007 5 ~ ~ 3,548 1250 209 10,793
1927.. 10,141 8 „ „ 5,677 1750 2714 13,507
Tim co. has had enough violent experiences
to give even an ordinarily tough concern
heart-disease. In the days before Federa-
tion. when Queensland was in some respects
as good a Protectionist as Victoria and in
some respects a better one, the co. had the


GHOTS o f SPRING
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
BESIDE me walked a gay lad,
Upon a wind-tossed day;
When cherub clouds, all fleecy clad,
Ran scampering at play.
And some, like jolly white bears,
Around St. James's spire
Caught an Angel unawares
And chased him wings-length higher.
The shouts from Heaven’s rafter
Bore sudden to my ear,
Mixed with your quips and laughter,
A voice of joy and tears
That always I remember,
And never will forget
While winds blow in September
And pine-trees stir and fret.
N.S.W.
To measures blown on jonquils
The earth spun its mad way,
Beyond the crouching green hills
The waves tossed caps of spray.
On such a day, my gay lad,
Another walked with me,
Blithe beat my heart, too long sad,
Pretending you were he!
In flickering squares of sunlight,
In leafy lace of shade,
The make-believe, with swift sleight
Of wits, dream-drunk, I played.
And then 1 saw your blue eyes
Were pools of memory. . . .
You laughed to drown your own sighs,
Because I was not She!
NORA McAULIFFE.


IS IT SAFE TO BUY?
IS IT BEST TO SELL?
See the
“ Wild Cat’ Monthly’’
FOR SEPTEMBER
SINGLE COPY, 2/-
PER ANNUM, 22/6.
Principal Newsagents,
or
“The Bulletin” Offices,
Sydney or Melbourne.
We stock -f- GF -f- Malleable Fittings to suit
every requirement, and as there are over 7500
varieties to choose from, we can accommodate any
trade. For water, steam or gas. Will not split or
crack, arid are correct in every detail. Obtainable
fiom William Adams & Co., Ltd., Sole Agents,
Sydney, Newcastle, Melbourne, Brisbane, Adelaide,
Perth.— Advt. | j
: I ! * * *
By reason of its high carrying capacity, which is
maintained throughout its entire period of service,
Pioneer Wood Pipe may be used in relatively smaller
sizes than other conduits. It never corrodes, there-
fore there is no rust nor tuberculation to choke the
flow, and the smooth inner bore affords no foothold
for organic growths. It has many other big advan-
tages, also, .Send for full information to the Aus-
tralian Wood Pipe Co., Ltd., Lane Cove, N.S.W.;
or Footseray, Victoria. — Advt.
* * *
Patents.- —Have you an idea worth patenting?
Griffith & Hassel, Patent Attorney, 77 Castlereagh
Street, Sydney, obtain Commonwealth and foreign
patents.— Advt.
* * * He
IDEAS—Commonwealth and Foreign Patents
obtained. Colmson & Co., 483 Collins St’cet, Mel-
bourne, and Adelaide. Thirty veais’ practice. Write
us for Inventors’ Guide.— Advt.
* * * *
If you are a producer of ores, mattes, metals and
metalliferous residues of any kind, Burkard and
Co., Ltd., 26-30 Bridge Street, Sydney, are buyers
for U.K., Continent of Europe and U.S.A. smelters,
and will pay you the highest prices and give you
best terms. Advances made against ore—and market
information, prices, assays at your disposal. Send
samples and particulars.— Advt.
* * * *
Insley (U.S.A.) One-man Crawler-type Petrol
or Motor-driven Power Shovel. This one machine
does the work of six. Namely, Shovelling, Ditch-
ing, Skimmer Scooping, Crane work, Dragline, Back-
filler and Magnet. Sole Agents: Arthur Leplastriei
and Co. Pty., Ltd., Sirius House, Macquarie Place,
Sydney; Collins House, Melbourne, 164 Edward
Street, Brisbane; and Morphett Street, Adelaide.
—Advt.
* * * *
A high-class line of Italian Microscopes, known as
the “Koristka,” pronounced by eminent authorities to
be equal to the best German instruments, are now
being offered by Messrs. Felton, Grimwade & Co.
Pty,. Ltd.. Melbourne, who have been appointed
sole Australian agents. Inquiries will be promptly
responded to. — Advt.
* 4= * *
Hydraulic Power Electric and Hydraulic Lifts
Limited (incorporated by Act of Parliament,
1888), hydraulic, electric and general engineers, lift
specialists. Maintenance and repairs of all classes of
lifts and other machinery. Mercantile Mutual Build-
ing, 14 Martin Place, Sydney.— Advt.
FULFIL THIS OBLIGATION.
In the interests of his dependents it is the bounden duty of every man to safeguard
his Estate by appointing a reliable Trustee.
The Permanent Trustee Company
of N.S.W., LTD.,
as a result of the experience based on 39 years’ control of all classes of Estates,
offers a service in capable and secure administration which is unequalled by the
individual. It ensures continuous control by men of expert knowledge. Unlike
an individual, the Company is permanent, whilst under a- special Act of Parliament
the whole of the capital and assets, exceeding one million pounds, is available for
the protection of clients’ interests.
At all times the Company is available to clients for information.
Estates Under Control Exceed £11,000,000.
Arrange now for interview, or write for booklet, sent post free on request.
ALFRED G. MILSON.
LIEUT.-COL. T. F. RUTLEDGE.
E. V. T. WHITTLE, Assistant Manager.
DIRECTORS ;
F. N. YARWOOD
(Chairman).
JAMES MOIR.
THOS. BUCKLAND.
J. W. BARNES, Manager.
25 O’CONNELL STREET, SYDNEY.
Everlasting Never-leak Blow-off Valve
2 YEARS’ GUARANTEE.
NEVER FAILS TO GIVE COMPLETE SATISFACTION.
Reference to innumerable users throughout the Commonwealth-
Made only by—
GUTHRIDGE, LIMITED, Camperdown, Sydney.
Illustrated Catalogue cannot fail to interest you.
benefit of a pretty tall tariff and did well.
Then came the milk-and-water tariff which
was the best that Kingston could get from
the first Commonwealth Parliament; and
this co. came such a crash that between 1906
and 1916 half the capital was written off
and dividends during that period were
scarcely visible to the naked eye. Since
then, little by little, the tariff has been
improved ; though unfortunately the badly-
led working man hasn’t thus far given it
much of a chance. In the last three years
things have been better, yet nothing like
they should be considering that an 8 p.c.
div. is really only about 4 p.c. to the old
hands —and a large proportion of share-
holders are old hands.
The figures given above for the past two
years are subject to a further remark.
Hitherto, in order to bring the plant more
into line with its earnings, large amounts
have been written off its book value. In
the past two years it has been thought un-
necessary to snip off any more; and the
amounts shown in the table as written off
have actually been put into a fund for
replacements and contingencies. The co.
deserves great credit for one thing; when it
has made profits it has always put a good
lump of them by ror some purpose or other.
That and the faith in itself which enabled
it to get fresh capital are between them
responsible for the co. putting itself on its
feet again without going into debt: —
1914. 1919. 1925. 1927.
Capital .. . . £23,339 £37,500 £70,964 £70,968
Liabilities . . 15,929 3,470 4,912 3,270
Buildings, etc. . . 9,836 14,150 14,236 15,883
Plant, etc. . . 21,548 25,000 30,315 33,536
Stock . . . . 12,868 13,153 28,170 23,804
Book debts . . 8,212 10,935 13,178 14,892
Cash and investments — 1 4,000 10,518
On the capital employed the turnover is
satisfactory—or at least was last year :
Materials and All
Sales. Manufacturing Exes.
1910 .. £24,682 £17,605
1915 .. 46, tl6 30,581
1920 .. 125,182 91,783
1923 .. 109,978 104,468
1924 .. 100,248 88,893
1925 . . 103,891 91,201
1927 .. 115,223 97,065
Probably the co. isn’t feeling very well at
the moment. But at any rate the fact that
a Labor Government has screwed up its
courage and is resisting an impossible de-
mand is promising for the future of the
great Northern State. Once its workers
realise that two an! two make four, and
that they have only been made five by
borrowing one, great prosperity must ensue.
* x * *
The Sydney market is watching Daily
Telegraph shares in consequence of per-
sistent rumors that the Sun Co has bought
the Telegraph or is about to buy it. No-
thing has been finalised yet, nor, indeed, have
the negotiations gone very far. The Tele-
graph Co. could get a price which would
give it 265. per share if it would sell; but,
though there have been preliminary conver-
sations, the “Old Guard” is strongly opposed
to the sale of the paper. The Sun people,
however, believe that in their hands there
would be a big future for a morning pic-
torial ; so the matter will not be dropped.
* * * *
The following is a comparison of metal
averages over various periods and at the
present date: —
1910- 1915- 1920- Sept. 15.
1915. 1920. 1925. 1927.
Lead,
ton £lB 6 6 £3l 10 1 £2B 11 4 £2l 16 3
Zinc,
ton 32 16 2 52 1 3 31 14 9 27 12 6
Copper,
ton 65 18 6 109 1 5 64 10 10 54 19 4
Tin,
ton 181 17 4 260 11 9 207 8 7 286 1 3
Silver,
oz. 2 H 3 111 2 91 2 13
But the comparison is not of much value
unless the variation in the purchasing power
of money is taken into account. Roughly,
if a quantity of metal was sold for £lOOO
in 1910-14, it should be sold now at about
£1650. Put in another way, to-day’s £27 for
zinc is worth no more than £l6 Bs. before the
war; and the others in proportion. This
will show how serious the present fall
really is.
* * * *
The following comparison shows the profit
made by the Broken Hill South for the
past few years and the prices of lead and
zinc in each year:—
Price of Lead Price of Zinc
Profit. per ton. per ton.
1922 .. £296,060 £23/4/- £26/5/10
1923 .. 354,232 £25/17/1 £33/7/4
1924 . . 497,633 £29/10/4 £32/16/2
1925 .. 521,590 £35/4/- £34/9/1
1926 .. 512,249 £33/17/5 £35/17/-
The present price of lead is £2l 16s. 3d.
and of zinc £27 12s. 6d. The nearest
figures are those for 1922; but since then
there has been a very substantial increase in
average costs, partly because of rises in
wages, partly because of the exhaustion of
old dumps.
* * * *
At the Roma (Q.) bore, gas, which has
forced its way through 2000 feet of slush, is
pressing on the pipes at 4501 b. to the sq.
inch and is escaping with such a roar that
it keeps the township awake. Preliminary
tests indicate that more petrol is present
in the gas than was found in the emissions
from the original Roma bore, and an encour-
aging occurrence is the dripping of oil from
the gas-tubes. Whether the drops come
direct from the natural reservoir or are
merely condensations from the gas has yet
to be determined.
* * * #
The daily papers surpassed themselves
in their comments on the news that two or
three mines at Broken Hill were closing
down. One Sydney journal broke out into
half a page of sobs over the deathbed of
the great silver field. The fact is that
the Broken Hill lode is a saddle, the sum-
mit at the Broken Hill Prop., the flaps
spreading out south to Block 10, Sulphide
Corp., South and Zinc Corp., north to
Block 14, British, Junction, Junction North
and North. Where the lode peaked up it was
rich from the surface ; north and south the
lode was at varying depths, and because of
this depth there was little rich unaltered
ore in those mines, and they did no good
for many years.' On the other hand, in
the B. H. Prop, and its neighbors, Block
30 and Block 14, they ran through the ore
at comparatively shallow depths—say,
3300 ft. arid in places less. Mines wherein it
took many more years to reach the main ore
bodies have therefore of late been enjoy-
ing the prosperity that the B. H. Prop,
and Block 10 were enjoying 20 or 25 years
ago. Block 10 threw up the sponge a few
years back; and the B. H. Prop, and
Block 14 have only been working under
extra-good market conditions for the last
30 years. To say that the South, North,
Sulphide Corp. and Zinc Corp must shut
down because the B. H. Prop, has done so
is to say that the Aorangi can’t put to sea
because it wouldn’t be safe for an old hulk
Lo do so.
* * * *
The No. 2 borehole for oil is nearer
Lakes Entrance (Vic.) than Lake Bunga,
where the first scout bore was drilled in
1924. The chief fault of both these trial
oil bores is that those in charge, being accus-
tomed to boring for gold, coal or water,
allow water to fill the borehole and remain
there. Water ought never to be allowed
into an oil well, and it should be shut out
with cement as quickly as it appears. That
is the practice in every oilfield on earth.
Water is the oil-driller’s most deadly enemy
and the water-driller’s dearest friend. It is
at least probable that oil was not found
in quantity in several of the boreholes
drilled in Queensland simply because
the driller searching for water did not
trouble to look closely for oil. In No. 1 bore
at Lake Bunga there was a column of water
1100 ft. high in a 6in. pipe, and natural gas
has been forcing its way through this dead-
weight of resistance for nearly three years.
But that’s not all. The other day Shirrefs,
the prospector, wired to Dr. Duncan, his
partner: “Baled water to 600 ft. One of the
men put down a piece of burning paper and
an explosion took place.” Of course it did,
and it will be a miracle if the whole of the
lower casing has not been blown to bits and
the hole ruined.
* * * *
Great Boulder tributors (W.A.) continue
to make handsome profits, so the co. is not
doing badly either. August yield from 89G4
tons ore and 4043 tons sands was worth
£28,936. To get this an expenditure of
£26,436 was incurred. The costs (£3 per
ton) are-awful; but it is due to heavy pay-
ments made to tributors. The question is,
how long will the good thing last? The
tributors reckon a long time, and keep on
buying shares which London and Adelaide
are ready to supply at about 9d.
* * * *
Notwithstanding the pessimistic view gene-
rally held regarding the Glenelg field
(W.A.), it has already something better to
show than most Westralian flutters of the
last 10 years. Glenelg Queen has a payable
width of 80s. ore down to 160 feet on the
underlie, while Great Beacon has 5 feet of
725. ore in the bottom of its 100 ft. vertical
shaft. Whether the gold shoots have length
and depth can be determined only by de-
velopment work. Meanwhile the owners are
showing their faith by exposing the ore
bodies as quickly as possible.
# . * # *
South Kalgurli Co.(W.A.) shows a fine dis-
crimination in the way in which it draws on
its rich stope. An average of £2500 per
month profit is easily maintained, and this
suffices to pay the accustomed div. The
mine looks able to keep on paying divs. at
the recent rate for years.
W.A. State Mining-engineer Montgomery
has just furnished an exhaustive report on
Wiluna and its claim for railway facilities.
The flotation of this show in London last
year was helped by the Collier Government’s
endorsement of Mitchell’s promise to build a
railway if prospects warranted and sufficient
capital was raised for equipment and develop-
ment. All work has been satisfactory, and
ore now in sight is estimated at 800.000
tons of an average value of 40s. With a rail-
way substantial profits might be earned from
this value, but without a railway, it is
declared, operations are doomed to failure.
Montgomery’s report is believed to concur
with this view.
•* . * ♦ *
Muang Tin was oversubscribed last week
in Sydney alone. Austral Asiatic share-
holders were allotted their applications in
full and the balance was divided pro 'rata
between Adelaide, Brisbane and Hobart
applicants. The “East” took 35,000 of the
issue, and the board showed wfisdom in
spreading the shares so widely. Had other
companies adopted this course some of them
would be feeling the benefit at the present
time when the tin share market is dragging.
The dredge is to be ordered next week; it
looks as if this new “stable” is going to
show some of the older ones points in getting
off the mark.
* * * *
Malim Nawar, floated in 1923, has been
rather a disappointment to its sponsors, and
they don’t attempt to disguise the fact in
the report of the first year’s active opera-
tions up to March 31. The original estimate
was that 30,000,000 yards would average
,821 b. per yard field concentrates. Dredging
began in April, 1920, and the year’s return
was 138,12 tons of t.o. from 798,500 c.y.
Average value ,391 b.; costs w T ere 5.74 d.
Product sold for £23,405, and there was a
surplus on working account of £4284. The
net profit for the year is given as £l9B. The
dredge, which was built at Singapore, has
been a continual source of trouble. Work
was held up front July 27 to September 2.
1926, while adjustments Were made and
extensive alterations carried out. The
ground, too, provided unexpected difficulties.
Patches of cemented peat resulted in low
yardages and increased costs, while sub-
merged timber also gave trouble, though this
has ceased to be a handicap to operations.
The co.’s capital is £lOO,OOO in £1 shares,
f.p. Assets total £118,204, and debts to
associated cos. and sundry creditors amount
to £18,004. With past experience as a guide,
and a greatly improved plant, the future
should yield much more satisfactory results.
* * * *
Alluvial Tin’s annual report tells about
the co.’s youngest infant, Kramat.. This
show was registered in the F.M.S. in Oct.,
1926. Issued capital is 130,000 £1 shares,
46,000 issued as f.p., and 84,000 contribs.
paid to ss. The property is on the west
bank of the Kinta, opposite Tanjong Tua-
long, and comprises about 470 acres of deep
dredging. Malcolm Newman’s estimate is
that it holds 50,000,000 c.y. of fib. ground.
A 180,000 c.y. bucket dredge digging to 75ft.
below water level is to be installed, though
the report doesn’t say that it has been put
in hand. Alluvial Tin’s cut was £25,000 in
f.p. shares, plus £5OOO cash to meet pros-
pecting exes. Alluvial’s shareholders were
asked to lift 25,000 contribs., the direc-
tors taking up the balance. Alluvial’s own
story for the year is a satisfactory one,
considering. The net profit of £28,719 in-
cludes 25,000 f.p. shares in Kramat and profit
from the sale of rights was £18,750. A
p. and 1. credit balance of £36,783 is carried
forward. Assets at March 31 total £307,175,
holdings in associated cos. amounting 1o
£264,210 of this. Creditors are rated at
£12,517, while balances due by associated
cos. total £9048. Cash in hand is £5300. and
there is a deposit with the dredge-builders
of £10,062.
* * * *
New Guinea Gold and Osmiridium. an
Australian holding concern With options on
the Bulolo goldfields, decided some months
back to go to the far-off green hills of London,
rather than the near fields of Pitt and Col-
lins streets, to float an operating co. Field-
manager H. W. Clark, who was sent off
for the purpose, has now cabled that the job
has been done. Some details are lacking, but
the Sydney co. is to receive 100,000 shares
for its interests, besides certain underwrit-
ing concessions and a call on reserve shares.
The co. has been something of a mystery
to date. It holds, according to its original
statement, some half-dozen leases on Bulolo.
Among those specially referred to were Nos.
1 and 2 Golden Chance, adjoining Guinea
Gold’s holdings on the Bulolo, and No. 3
Golden Chance, at the head of Wau Creek,
a. confluent. These leases are said to be 240
acres each, but no information as to their
gold content, actual or estimated, has ever
reached The Bulletin. The informa-
tion may probably have been reserved for
the London flotation. But it seems peculiar
that this concern should have been hawked
to London when most of its New Guinea
contemporaries have been content to throw
themselves on the Australian market, where
information as to possibilities, etc., is much
more accessible. Incidentally, if the. cabled
figures are correct, the amount received in
shares by the Sydney holding co. argues a
very big capitalisation for a show of this
type.
* * * *
Timor Petroleum Co.’s annual meeting
passed off peacefully in Melbourne. Nobody
asked any questions about salaries (£2042),
directors’ fees (£1179) or travelling ex-
penses (£790), though £23 a week for direc-
tors in a tiny boring co. looks like extrava-
gance. The total of “establishment expenses”
so far is £SG2S and of field development
£11,451. Out of £113,967 of paid-up capital,
less £60,000 vendors' slice of the melon, all
of it seems to have been spent bar £10,768
cash in hand. The directors are negotiating
for a monopoly of Portuguese Timor cover-
ing the search for oil. At the present rate
of expenditure it will take all the funds to
prove that there is any oil to produce in
Timor.
* * * *
Shareholders in Sardine Tin, Kangaroo
Hills (N.Q.), will get their twenty-seventh
taste on October 6. It is 3d. per share, and
will push total distributions up to £22,000.
The last 3d. was paid on July 3u, and while
tin remains around £285 per ton share-
holders can remain optimistic. The market
values the ss. shares at about par.
* # ❖ *
Some of Westralia’s old tin fields are being
heard of again. Leases have been pegged
at Moolyella, Cooglegong and Wodgina in
the Nor’-West and at Poona on the Mur-
chison. Next to Greenbushes, Moolyella has
been the best producer in Groperland. Fair
quantities have also been obtained at the
other two Nor’-West centres mentioned, but
Poona’s yield to date has been insignificant.
A London co. is digging out emeralds at the
latter place and whooping loudly in London
about its prospects of becoming a millionaire.


Vincent Lopez
*My toes just can’t keep still
when Lopez, plays a fox trot."
The Giant of Jazz [
WHEN Jazz first burst on an astonished world it was crude, rough,
disordered. Its producers did not understand it ; nor did the
players, nor did the public.
But a decade of development has made Jazz "something else again.” It fills its own
appointed place in the musical scheme of things. Now, there are many fine exponents
of Jazz, on the piano. And the greatest of them all is Lopez.
When this harlequin of the keyboard plays for the Ampico, his performance is caught
exactly, unerringly The re-enactment through Beale-Ampico is the real Lopez. Ask
him for an encore, when you will. He’ll give it again and again. Not a bar, not a
note, net a shading ever different from the original.
Great to listen to, greater still to dance to —jazz is a tonic and an exhilaration. Not till
you hear Lopez do you know it at its best. And he plays it only for the Ampico.
As fine a master in his own sphere as the leading exponents of the orthodox, Lopez is a
possession always within your reach. Use him, when and how you will. He’ll beat a
rhythm into your blood that will set your feet a-cruise on a blue sea of delight. He’ll
make you tingle with the joy of living.
brings this priceless service to devotees of the dance, home-makers and others. It offers
all the latest dance music played by the ablest exponents of rhythm, including (in ad-
dition to Lopez) Ferdie Grofe, Adam Carroll, J. Milton Delcamp, Ralph Reichenthal and
others who record their playing exclusively for the Ampico.
NOT ONLY DANCE MUSIC
Of course dance music is not the only thing that
the Beaie-Ampico provides it brings also the
playing of the greatest pianists in the world,
Godowsky, Rachmaninoff, Levitzki, Ornstein,
Schnitzer and hosts of others.
INVITATION TO HEAR IT
It is impossible to describe the Reale-Ampico—
you must hear it to appreciate how marvellous it is
—come at your convenience and spend a pleasant
half hour listening to a programme of your own
choosing, in the Beale Salon or at any of our
Branch Addresses.
Exchange your piano for a Beale-Amptco
The Beale-Ampico may be yours to-day. A moderate initial payment, and the
value of your present instrument deducted from the price, and the balance
arranged on easy terms, makes possession of the Beale-Ampico possible for
almost anyone.
Catalogue and other descriptive literature post free on request.
BEALE & COMPANY
The life of the Birthday Party
is the Beale-Ampico
cA Lopez re-enactment on the Peak-Amplco
is never a shading different from the original.
Showrooms:
340 George Street, Sydney
LIMITED
Head Office and Factories f
41-47 Trafalgar St., Annandale
BRANCHES: New South Wales: Bathurst, Lismore, Newcastle, Goulburn. Victoria: Maples in all Melbourne Suburbs.
Tasmania: .Williams Bros., Hobart; Maples, Launceston. South Australia: Savory’s Pianos, Ltd., Adelaide.
Western Australia: Thomson’s, Ltd.
Queensland: G. J. Grice, Ltd., 90-92 Queen Street, Brisbane; Toowoomba, Maryborough, Rockhampton, Mackay,
Townsville and Cairns.
SmiFh If
Julius


ħ
h
SHELL SPIRIT
was used exclu -
sively through -
out the flight .
The Most Remarkable Tribute
ever paid to any MOTOR SPIRIT!
FTER flying across the Atlantic, and
1 three-quarters of the way round the
world in 15 days, the American Aviators,
Messrs. Schlee and Brock, stated that their
engine was in even better condition
than when the flight commenced.
e
The Standard of the World
LIMITED THROUGHOUT AUSTRALIA AND NEW ZEALAND
THE BRITISH IMPERIAL OIL COMPANY
PERSONAL
ITEMS
GLOBE
MEAT EXTRACT
GLOBE BRAHD
“C.Q.” : Priminister Bruce’s official dwell-
ing at Canberra cost £14,000, and has five
reception-rooms, but now the Capital Com-
mission reports that it was only intended
as the “lodge” to a larger building. The
Bruce is not easily satisfied in the matter
of a roof overhead. His new home at
Frankston, near Melbourne, is valued at
£40,000. It includes a hangar for the use
of friends who may arrive by aeroplane.
MALCOLM SHEPHERD, the new Secre-
tary for Defence, who has just com-
pleted years as official sec. at Aus-
tralia House.
Even in liis private life Walter Bentley,
known in the profession as “the Scotch Ham-
let,” carried an air of thespian tragedy. It
was real tragedy that brought down the
final curtain. Bentley, whose name was Wil-
liam Begg, started his theatrical career as
an amateur in Dunedin (M.L.). After pro-
fessional appearances in Auckland he went
to London. There he achieved a triumph as
Clarence in Henry Irving’s production of
'■Richard III.” at the Lyceum in 1877. He
had first seen Australia as a ship’s appren-
tice before he left the sea and settled down
to a City Council job in Dunedin; he re-
turned in 1891 as a star, and 18 years ago
decided to make Sydney his home. He was
then 60 years of age. The last years of his
life were a hard battle. 111-health fell on
the old man, making it impossible to carry
on his classes in dramatic instruction. And
a pistol-shot ended the pain and the struggle.
Jim Dooley, who moves out of the N.S.W.
Speakership with
the termination of
the present Parlia-
ment, maintained
his reputation for
politeness to the
end. When in-
formed of his defeat
in the Lithgow
Labor ballot his
only comment was
a few words of
thanks. Only once
in his 20 years’
sojourn in the Mac-
quarie-street talk-
ing-sliop did he
break from his
regular line of de-
portment. That
was a few years
ago, when lie called
the A.W.U.-con-
trolled executive
that expelled him a
“mob of uncouth
crooks.”
Bishop HART,
of Wangaratta,
who till the
other day was
Dean of Mel-
bourne.
John McWhae was born in Ballarat when
it was having an early boom. His father, one
of the town’s pioneers, having made money,
sent his son to Dumfries, in Scotland, to be
educated. The son started his career in the
Union Bank, but took to stock-broking and
invested his profits in pastoral holdings. He
was elected M.L.C. for Melbourne Province
in 1909 and held an unbroken grip on the
seat. After holding Ministerial portfolios
in the Bowser and Lawson Governments he
was Agent-General for Victoria in 1922-23.
The end came during a holiday in Japan.
The N.S.W. Leg. Assembly will have at
least one thoroughly well-informed member
if Captain Fred Aarons gets in for Neutral
Bay, where he is standing as a Nationalist
opposed to pre-selection. Aarons was a repre-
sentative footballer before he became a Dig-
ger ; he is a journalist, and has written
historical books; he speaks half a dozen lan-
guages, and is a radio-lecturer of note.
Invalided home from Gallipoli, where he was
badly knocked, he went back to his cobbers
blind in one eye and served for the duration,
though he was twice wounded in France.
H. E. Boote, the mild-mannered editor of
Sydney Worker, who dips his pen in vitriol
when he writes on the pro-Lang executive,
and was recently called on to show cause
why he shouldn’t be placed beyond the pink
pale, was recently asked to assist the Society
for Prevention of Cruelty to Animals. “I
know, Mr. Boote, you are fond of animals,”
said the member. “Well,” Boote remarked,
taking a ticket, “I can’t say I’m as fond of
them as some people. I’m not so fond of
them, for example, that I want to eat them.”
Boote is a vegetarian.
The row about dirty flock in Melbourne
recalls a war incident in Maoriland. Dr.
H. T. J. Thacker, the picturesque Mayor of
Christchurch and the Shivery Island’s most
talkative Parliamentarian, was looking for
war scandals and was sooled on by some-
body to demand an inquiry into the state of
soldiers’ mattresses on a troopship. A
number of officials went along to look into
the matter and declared there was nothing to
complain of. The doctor, however, announ-
ced that he was not satisfied and was
going to have some of the flock analysed,
lie thereunon drew a penknife, slashed one
of the accused pieces of bedding, and, drag-
ging out a handful of the stuffing, put it in
his pocket. Jimmie Allen, Minister for
Defence, refused to get excited. “Let him get
away with it,” he whispered to his colleagues.
“A medico who regards his coat pocket as
germ-proof isn’t very dangerous.”
Solomon J. Solomon, R.A., who impressed
the British war machine with the advan-
tages of camouflage, made his first big hit
with “Samson and Delilah,” a picture of
which there are copies in many galleries.
Solomon completed the picture of the Corona-
tion luncheon held at the Guildhall after the
coronation of the present King. The work
was commenced by J. H. Bacon, but was
only in its rough stage when the artist died.
David Lindsay, the explorer, was the first
man to get a string of camels on to the
Westralian goldfields: he brought 50 camels
overland from Port Augusta and engaged m
transport work for some time. Later he
was drawn into The swirl of investment and
speculation, and became a member of the
Coolgardie Stock Exchange. The first
water-condensing plant was taken to the
field by his camels.
W. J. Morpeth was one of a band of
Canadians w 7 ho sailed for Maoriland in their
own vessel from Prince Edward Island in
the Gulf of St. Lawrence in the 'fifties. They
took the longest way to their new home:
to Brazil across to the Cape of Good Hope,
thence to Australia and the Rickety Isles.
Morpeth, after a few years of farming,
joined the Civil Service, from which he
retired in 1894. His writing was copper-
plate ; he penned all the certificates accom-
panying the M.L. Cross, though many were
granted years after the war was over. He
was 88 when death stilled his hand.
Brothers and sons of the late Washington
Greville had a silver plate bearing the Gre-
ville coat-of-arms attached to his coflin
before it was placed in the family vault
in Brighton (Vic.) cemetery. The Aus-
tralian Grevilles claim to be descended from
a branch of the family of which the Earl
of Warwick is head. One or two of them
have shown great: capacity for feeding the
hungry—for a consideration —and have
earned large divs. at the game.
How many N.S.W. legislators, beaten at
the selection ballots, will make something out
of their failure as did an erstwhile Parlia-
mentarian? Beaten in the preliminary
ballot, he waited on his successful rival.
“See here,” he said, “during the past year
I have put about 250 names on the roll.
The people don’t exist—but they all have
votes. I’ll sell you the list for £50.” The
successful candidate invested. He won by
less than 200 votes.
The N.S.W. State elections are bringing
two parsonical banner-bearers into the con-
flict. At Drummoyne, W. J. Gray, standing
as an Independent, has won a condemnatory
statement from Nationalist-leader Bavin on
the alleged intrusion of sectarianism. At
Albury, C. E. Riley, who says he is standing
for “Christian principles,” has declined to
listen to Nationalist and Country Party re-
presentations that he should withdraw. At
the 1910 elections three parsons—Jock
Garden, who had a church on the Northern
Rivers; F. B. Cowling, of Woollahra; and T.
S. Crawford—deserted the pulpit for the
soapbox. Crawford was the only one iu
reach Parliament, and he later left politics
for the law. He is now Crown Prosecutor.
Pat McGarry, when he stumped the Mur-
rumbidgee for Labor and surprised even
Laborites by winning, did his electioneering
per foot with occasional lifts in farmers’ bug-
gies. Those lifts won him votes. The same
electorate this time provides the- first State
candidate to electioneer by aeroplane. W. J.
Adams, who carries the C.P. label, has
engaged an aerial ’bus to carry him around.
Orwell Phillips is president of the Sydney
Great Synagogue. His brother, L. M. Phil-
lips, has been an officer for 30 years and is
now the president of the Montefiore Home,
which Jewry maintains for its old, indigent
and orphaned. Sam Cohen, who is a cousin,
was president of the Great Synagogue for
three years before Orwell Phillips, and Sam’s
father, George Judah, held the office for
three years before that.
“Schnorrer”: The N.S.W. Order of
Druids, which has elected Lewis Herman,
junior, as Grand Master, has had a list of
Jewish G.M.’s. Alexander, a well-known
’bus proprietor in the years when the rat-
tling chariots were popular and profitable,
was the first. He was the Sydney agent for
the Druids’ Gala Art Union, which in those
days was run in Melbourne. A ’busman’s
holiday in those days was to go out at the
boss’s expense in a nightgown and whiskers
to a cricket match or race meeting and sell
Druids’ Gala tickets. But the ’bus-owner
got the big cut of the commission. Book-
maker Rufe Hart was another G.jVL, his
brother Harry Hart a third, and Les Harris
and Lewis Herman, senior, were others. The
last w r as G.M. in 1912-13, and is still alive.
Jim Bereton, of Narrewillock (Vic.), won
the Hekald’s prize of a free holiday in the
city during Show week for a farmer who has
never been to Melbourne. For 47 of his 53
years Jim has lived on a farm situated on
the dividing-line between the Mallee and the
Wimmera, 183 miles from Melbourne. Bal-
larat represented his “farthest south.” His
chief desires were to see the sea and ride
in a lift.
One of the best-liked Maoriland Parlia-
mentarians was Dick Bollard. His dad was
member for Auckland’s suburb, Eden, for
many years, and held his seat long enough
to welcome his son to the talking-shop.
Dick didn’t contribute much to Hansakd,
but he was a hard grafter. He started as a
road-board clerk, took up farming, turned
from that to saw-milling, became an invete-
rate member of local bodies, and got into
Parliament 16 years ago as member for
Raglan. His constituency stuck to him. and
he stuck to the Reform party, After seven
years of saying very little and doing a lot,
he was made a Whip, and that paved the
way to the portfolio of Internal Affairs,
which he had held for four years when
Death took it from him. He formed the
habit of telling the truth and keeping his
word early in life, and never lost it—which
is perhaps the reason why he said so little
in the House and made so few promises to
constituents or deputations.
Friends of Oswald C. G. Shields were
shocked when word was cabled from Lon-
don that he had cut things short by severing
an artery. The medical profession in Vic.
lost a front-rank man and a large circle a
good pal. His dad, Andrew Shields, a gran’
auld Scot, was for years Vic. Government
medical officer, and was vera prood of his
two medical sons (Douglas, knighted for war
service, is in London). Oswald built up a
big practice in Yea (Vic.) before he went to
England. At times he acted as nurse and
cook to his patients in out-back or impov-
erished homes, and blessings were poured on
his head as belated payments were made on
the lower scale.
John Boyle, of Glencoe, near Collie
(N.S.W.), whose body, in accordance with
his wishes, was borne to his grave on a
dray drawn by his favorite horse, was fol-
lowing an example set by Arthur Todd llol-
royd, the old-time Parramatta brick-kiln
proprietor, who represented Western
Boroughs in the first N.S.W. Parliament
and afterwards became Minister for Works.
He set out that his burial was to be as
simple as possible. The hearse was to be
one of his brick-drays, drawn by his favorite
horse (named) ; the driver was to be one
of his workmen (also named), and that
worthy was to be in his shirt sleeves. Hol-
royd’s wishes were carried out.
Zane Grey, who has been prospecting in
and around the reefs and islands of the
Pacific for big fish, has decided that the
Maoriland waters have most attraction for
him. The American novelist will return to
his Dominion haunts next year.
“Hayband”: Recently - deceased John
Kennedy owed more than a half-century
of his existence to Bigjohn Forrest] s bush-
manship. As mentioned (B. 25/8/’27.t
Alderman J. H. MOSTYN, Labor’s Lord
Mayor oj Sydney.
thirst was the enemy of Forrest’s ’74
expedition. Once, when it was touch-and-go,
Bigjohn observed an emu’s track. His bush
knowledge told him that water could not be
far distant. Search revealed Victoria
Springs—a sand-soak.
W. H. Whiddon, leader of the N.S.W.
Income-tax Harriers, once had to sack a
temporary clerk for drunkenness. Next day
the inked ink-slinger returned and demanded
a (liic!) reference. One portion of the
document read: “Mr. Blank is an excellent
penman, and a particularly accurate ledger-
keeper. He is severing his connection with
the department solely on account of his
inability to comply with the regulations.”
MIDDLE AGE.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
In middle age these gracious tilings remain :
An outlook on the world lucid and sane;
A steady life, with healthy children three;
The early-morning grateful cup of tea ;
Surcease of passion and Love's irking pain.
My children they will grow in their own
ways,
Yet I still watch them in a mild amaze;
And' suddenly I know I am not old
That still my youth in memories I hold—
Sometimes a flush of spring-tide floods my
days.
Dull work that keeps me doggedly content;
A day in my small garden gladly pent;
A home, young laughter, and a wondrous
wife —
I plucked at least one guerdon out of Life,
And glimpsed the splendor that for Man was
meant!
Youth has pranced by with silver-shining
sword,
While I my memories with age must hoard.
I gained no gold; my bronze I lightly
spent;
I found that good and ill are nicely blent.
And a man’s work, for that is his reward.
A heavy book of scientific lore —
Strange that I feel desire to study more !
Yet I should like to see this world unfold,
And all the splendors that it yet will
hold—-
A single glance through that half-opened
door!
A quiet doze, the benison of bed ;
Meed of content till I am safely sped;
Good passage may the Fates my passing
send ;
Ami this is best and last —the gentle end
And the green coverlet upon me spread.
N.S.W.
ARTIIUR IL ADAMS.


SHSPH “
. V'/ _
' T'J - =
i u§e
fo'v / •• ' .
■
I
•-r'- . \:» ** M.
«\,h ' \-*> >*&■
V-V »:
\ A--"-
•-
s ■
■
■
0
.... .. . ...
’ - -
... 1 ■r, ■ ■■
w
7 - - ' "- ',,. ■■.
7 ■ : "'CJ-#;?
i|'
WmM
\
m
.
X.
\y
IS
■ m
c \
■
£62
v
•7;
&
7*-
V
a
%
a
as/
Hi
5^
W 2
0
'm
s';s
M
y
X.
a
V-
(C
n
VAI
Your mercer has the kind
you prefer in colourings
and • patterns to please
you. Ask him.
From
To
2/11 5/6
per pair per pair
But/ Australian Made
and
Build Australian Trade
You can’t find a fault
in Half-Hose
O ET down to fads about Bond’s Half-
Hose. Examine them from any angle.
You mud conclude that they’re right in
every regard. Colourings are unique
and in perfed harmony. Designs are
smart and in perfed taste. Fitting and
finish are equal to the finest imported.
And they’ll give service to a degree you’ve not had
before from any half-hose in similar textures.
HALF-HOSE
A/r , . A n i- A,/ fAo FMPJ OYEES of GEG. A. BOND & CO. LTD.
y?* S' I®™ 1 ®™' U ? L u thEEca Manufacturers of Bond's Hosiery, Half Hose,
All States, Neu, Zealana and South AJr.ca 1 Aus(rall „„ Cotton Spinners.
Underwear, Towels ana oneeting


Top Prices at Winehcombe-Carson’s sales
are an encouragement for skin-getters -to make war
on the rabbit.
The firm’s work is reliable and capable. As a
result buyers operate with confidence at Wineh-
eombe-Carson auctions, and owners consistently secure
full market values.
CONSIGN SKINS:
WINCHCOMBE, CARSON
SYDNEY OB BRISBANE. L
English Pin Seal Race-book
Cover, with small Eversharp
pencil attached by a chain,
Every Racegoer Needs
A RACE-BOOK COVER
An essential detail in your racing outfit that
takes care of race-book, betting ticket and
notes. Smart, compact, made of real leather,
these useful wallets give years of faithful ser-
vice—and even improve in beauty with use.
Made to fit the books issued by the various
racing clubs, and available in a pleasing range
of leathers and designs.
See them at
Fairfax and Roberts Ltd.,
The Oldest Jewellery House in Sydney,
23 and 25 Hunter Street.
CASH ONLY.
PLAIN FIGURES.
1
q good
or
nights rest
take
ħ
it will ensure
a good days
work
In 4 sizes
of all Chemists
and Stores
ABORIGINAUTIES
MADE IN AUSTRALIA
BARNES LINSEED OIL
“Ivayeff”; The method of pro-
ducing fire described by “Mulla-
rula” (B. 25/8/’27) is similar to
that used by peoples in as widely
separated localities as Malaya and
the Gilbert Islands. There are
minor differences, however. In both
places the initial spark is produced
by bearing down heavily on a narrow
blunt knife-edge of hardwood, which
is rubbed vigorously along a groove
cut lengthwise in a softer piece.
The softer piece is not split or
wedged apart, however, a mere in-
cision being made with a knife-
blade sufficient to guide the slip of
hardwood. The operator does not
put any inflammable shreds in this
groove. The rubbing produces a
tiny heap of furred-up wood at the
far end of the groove; this smokes
and finally glows into a small
spark. The fire-maker then leans
over and carefully blows the spark
into more vigorous life. When it
has fairlv caught the little heap
of wood-dust a pinch of the dry
husk of a cocoanut is dropped on
top, and a few puffs produce flame,
There is no difficulty in the per-
formance except to avoid spilling
the heap of wood-dust when in-
creasing the tempo of the stroke as
it nears glowing point, but it is a
darned hard minute’s work, all the
same. The Gilbert Islander, having
made his fire, carries it round with
him in the form of a glowing piece
of dry cocoanut husk. This will
smoulder for hours, and will burst
into flame when whirled round the
head at arm’s length.
“Jim Domino”: Not far from Nyngan
(N.S.W.) I saw two big goannas having a
ding-dong scrap. At my approach they separ-
ated and scaled different trees. When about
15 feet up one of the combatants jumped,
landing so heavily that I thought his innards
must have burst; but he displayed great
agility in climbing the same tree as his
antagonist. The latter, mistaking the atti-
tude for one of attack, clawed his way to the
end of a bough. Then he jumped. In the
same district I was riding with a companion
when we spotted a go. peering at us round a
tree-stump up which he had ascended half-
way. “Watch me give this bloke a shock,”
said my mate; and he rode up to the tree
and grabbed the lizard’s tail. One jerk, and
the go., releasing his grip, landed squarely
on the horse’s rump. The assortment of
bucks which followed I have never seen
equalled, and the memory of a five-mile gal-
lop through a scrubby paddock after the way-
ward steed is still vivid.
“Spike”: “Cog” (B. 25/8/’27) slips one.
The steel toe-plate which caps the point of
a timber-faller’s board—used to get at the
sound timber in a “pipey” mill-log—was not.
first introduced here 18 months ago. The
idea probably originated in the fertile mind
of some convict fuller. Our breaking-down
saw—-we are cutting on a block originally
A PRECEDENT FOR IT.
VISITOR: “D’ye think it’s going to clear up?”
NATIVE: “Well, mister, I bin livin’ here sixty year come Chris’mas, and it alius has.”
held by the A. A. Co. —bears evidence of its
contact with a steel toe-plate attached to a
few inches of oak board embedded in a tal-
low-wood log. The barrel of the ancient
vegetable showed an increase in girth of quite
three inches since its bark had grown over
the nick. It must have hit badly, or else
they were hard to please in those days. We
cut 4000 super out of the log they’d left
because it had a mere 4in. pipe.
“Keystring”: While I can’t say who intro-
duced the standing-board to the Northern
Rivers (N.S.W.), Allan McDonald is credited
with the introduction of the stake to that
area in 1881. Mac got the idea from a
Canadian who was cutting hardwood logs at
Camdenliaven (N.S.W.), and the board
seems to have evolved from it. “Cog” is
behind the times when he says that 18 months
ago men were using “the then new idea.”
Why, the last scrub falling I did was 28
years ago, and the idea wasn’t new then ; I
always used a shod board eight inches wide
instead of “Cog’s” four inches. The advantage
in the extra width was that one could turn
on the board and chop either hand without
being so cautious of one’s balance. I also
had a piece of bagging tightly tacked on the
top of my board to eliminate the danger of
slipping.
“Longo”: I was one of many who used
steel-shod boards in the big timber on the
Richmond River (N.S.W.) in 1902. It was
about that date that they superseded the
“three forks and a pole” used by the pio-
neers in building a primitive and precarious
scaffold to reach above the spurs of the boo-
yong-trees. At no time did cutters trust their
lives to “a stake driven into the tree.” Any-
one who tried such a method would die young.
As far as I know, the shoe on the end of the
springboard was evolved from the ordinary
horseshoe —strengthened and made angular,
with holes for bolts in lieu of nails.
“The Welkin”: It is erroneously believed
by many that the shark turns on his back
to bite. Of course he may do this, but not
because he cannot bite whilst in a natural
position. I once hooked a shark whose
curiosity had got the better of him. He
swallow'ed the hook with his back upper-
most.
“Momokeni”: The description given .by
“Lagani-Namo” (B. 28/7/’27) of a small
brown bear shot on Mount Lawson by a
party of prospectors fits a similar animal 1
obtained from the natives of the foothills
of Mount Favene, Papua, not more than
2000 ft. up. Though bear-like as to head,
body and paws, the paws being furnished
with long sharp claws, it was a marsupial,
The natives said that, though previously
known, it w r as very rare. “Mary,” my
specimen, was never savage and became a
real pet. Her fur was thick and glossy, m.
a beautiful cinnamon, brown, and the tail,
which was thick, round and furred to the
end, was used as a balance when sitting, but
carried stiffly in the air at an angle ot 4o
degrees when she was hopping along the
ground. Her gait was stilted, more like that
of a rocking-horse than the hop of a kan-
garoo. Her habits were nocturnal and she
was a great climber. I fed her on bananas
and scraped cocoanut, although she would
share a plate of rice with the boys, ana
was on friendly terms at meal times with
the tame wallaby, two cats and my fox-
terrier, often eating from the same nao.
She came to a sudden end owifig to her
fondness for sweet-potato tops, which in
Papua sometimes develop a poison if the
plant is grown too often in the same ground,
* * *
“Saylor”: Can any Abo. enlighten me as
to the identity of a fish I saw a few yards
off-shore at Townsville (N.Q.), lying motion-
less in about six feet of water? He was
about six to seven feet long and of a beauti-
ful silver-blue color on back and sides,
gradually toning into white underneath. He
had something of the shape, of a pike, and
showed a wonderful turn of speed when dis-
turbed. Two days later a dog swimming
near this spot had two hind legs taken off
as cleanly as if the operation had been per-
formed by a surgeon. The owner, who wit-
nessed the attack, swears it was not made
by a shark,
* * *
“Old Aussie”: Could it not be made corn-
pulsory for rabbit-traps to be cleared at
least once in six hours and the victims killed?
On a bitterly cold night in southern N. 8.
Wales I heard a rabbit squealing in a trap
at nine o’clock. For reasons unnecessary to
describe I wasn’t able to go out armed with a
lantern and tomahawk, as I had done on
previous occasions, and end its sufferings,
and the pitiful cries continued, at intervals,
all night. Many strong buck-rabbits mus
take days dying m this way. Surely trapping
could be carried out on more humane lines.
(Continued on page 27.)
THE KARRASENE-TIN SPECIALIST.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Old Steve at our station contrives and repairs
All things out of nothing with no rules
or plans.
He doesn’t need help or advice and declares,
“Me best two assistants ’s me own pair
o’ ban’s.”
Machines, lathes and such are for finicking
fools,
All you need do is put in his capable fin
The easiest found and the simplest of tools,
Shears, pliers and wire—and a karrasenc-
tin.
His genius ranges from tight saucepan lids
(Worked out on his “bench,” which is
mostly his knees)
To brands for the woolshed and toys for
the kids
And guards to keep ’possums from climb-
ing the trees.
To the flash-ornamental he does not aspire
And rococo-style art is original sin.
He respects nails and solder • and likewise
old wire,
But the basic and best thing's a karrasene-
tin.
He's roofed the old kitchen with tins cut
in strips,
Made buckets and troughs and a sort of
a bath,
And all water-tight, like ironclad ships,
And a fence against slugs round the
flower-garden path.
If the missus shouts “Steve! We want an
ash-can,”
A shade for the lamp, or a bigger flour-bin,
A meat-cover, strainer, a dipper or pan,
He’ll go straight off in search of a karra-
sene-tin.
He’s made pots for the flowers and pots for
the fat,
Traps for the rabbits and traps for the
mice,
Tin labels for every dashed thing but the
cat;
And you don’t have to tell about a thing
twice.
If you called for some gadget, like aeroplane
wings,
THE EXPERT.
“Know anything about cars?”
“Been mixed up with ’em a bit.”
“Mechanic?”
“No, pedestrian.”
He'd answer “Righto! But before I be-
gins
Just gimme the size and the shape of the
things
An’ I’ll hunt up some rivets an’ karrasene-
tins.”
Nothing can stay this old marvel of ours
Except stoppage of petrol ' and kero,
supply.
When his time comes he’ll give an account
of his powers
And talents not wasted this side of the
sky.
He’ll cut his own halo and make his own
harp,
And you safely may wager a pound to a
pin
That all lie’ll demand will be shears nice and
sharp,
A length of .fence wire and a karrascne-
tin.
S.A.
BILL O’C.


ft Quality
Engineering
that counts/ 0
m
PUP!* -I I 4
H a
m
The internal expanding emergency and external
contracting service brakes have a generous
width and diameter that holds and wears.
This Brockway 35cwt. Highway Express Speed Truck is a
finished engineering job of the highest standard.
No detail conducive to great strength and long, economical
wear has been overlooked. Every unit has been thoroughly
proved on the road of dependability.
The powerful 25/50-B.H.P. Overhead Valve Motor registers
the splendid mileage of 1 5 miles per gallon. Barely half-pint
of oil is used per 1000 miles. The Truck is well shod—
-32 x 6 heavy-duty Truck Tyres.
The automatic distribution of
oil to pinion bearings again
proves that Brockway Trucks
are designed for uninterrupted
service. Timken tapered
roller bearings are used
throughout.
IDEAL FOR CARRYING 35CWT. LOADS AT FAST SPEEDS—ROOMY lift, x 6ft. BODY.
....
~i - ■ 1
-irtSSSFI
■■■ill
sa
;.r
ill
* i'
r*-
• -
;
M
3 C
-fWEB
sszr"
■I
■III
1 ££ &
; M mM
'
FEATURES OF 35CWT. CHASSIS.
5 Cross Members, 25/50-H.P. Overhead Valve Motor, Magneto Ignition,
Power Tyre Pump, Spicer Universals, handsome Electrical System, 5 32 x 6 Tyres.
It’s a quality engineering job better than most and second to none
WRITE FOR PARTICULARS TO-DAY!
AGENTS:
THE RIGHT WAY
Motor
Trucks
SYDNEY: Brockway Motors, Ltd.
MELBOURNE: Ronaldson Bros,
and Tippet Pty., Ltd.
ADELAIDE: Campbell and
Worthington, Ltd.
BRISBANE: Brisbane Motor
Company, Ltd.
PERTH: Associated Motors, Ltd.
AUCKLAND: Denton & Co.
NAPIER: Anderson & Hansen,
Ltd.
Brockway Trucks are Real Value —UNSURPASSED!


r
s
m
H<
Tlrffl
•3
7%,
*-.
flw
r
v\
pis
Ht
riF
n
"f/r
>RS
I
#I«
*/■?
W*
TO
TO
&
F&t
z
rC
/
rf
fF-.
f? 3
*>„»«
*i
rO
□
T
\\
BUlCK—famous 23yearsfor itsValve*
in-Head motor. More than 1,000,000
Buicks bought by people everywhere
CHEVROLET-People bought
519,060 Chevrolets in 1925 732,147
in 1926. The world’s lowest priced,
fastest selling gearshift car.
LA SALLE —made in the Cadillac
factory. The new quality car which is
winning leadership among the world’s
finest automobiles.
CADILLAC —the world’s most success*
ful 8 cylinder car. More Cadillacs sold
than all other cars in its price class
put together.
Which are General
Motors Cars ?
CHEVROLET, Pontiac, Oldsmobile, Oakland, Buick, La Salle,
Cadillac and Vauxhall... these are the General Motors cars.
Perhaps you have thought of General Motors as remote
and distant from you.
Actually it is as close to you as your motor-car —and its
service as available as your nearest General Motors dealer.
In a very real sense General Motors is a local, near-by
organisation.
There is a General Motors plant now operating in each of the
five Australian capital cities. These plants employ more than
2000 Australian men and women. Spreading out from the
plants are General Motors dealers, who employ many more
people in their business of serving the car buyers of Australia.
These plants and the local General Motors dealers contribute to
General Motors success—and share also in its success and
growth.
Every car buyer in this country also shares in General Motors
success —shares in it through the added value and greater
economy which distinguish General Motors cars, and which
make them such satisfactory cars to buy and own.
General Motors grows because of its service to individual car
buyers everywhere.
General Motors makes a car for every purse and purpose. It
makes its cars so well and sells them at such relatively low
cost, value considered, that each year more people buy General
Motors cars.
General Motors success is the reward of service—and because
it serves better and at lower cost one out of every four buyers
now chooses a General Motors car.
GENERAL MOTORS
(AUS.) PTY., LTD.
Melbourne - Sydney - Brisbane - Adelaide - Perth
IT PAYS TO BUY A
GENERAL MOTORS CAR
OAKLAND—the first low priced Six-
made possible by General Motorspolicy
of volume production with economy.
PONTIAC —a success in its first year
when popular demand called for
76,000 Pontiacs—makinga new record
m
m
St
OLDSMOB/LE recognized leader
since 1897 when it was the world’s
first successful car. A leader today with
its low price and modern features.
1
VA UXHALL British built and
noted for reputation and long life. A
leader for 17 years in the United
Kingdom.
GENERAL MOTORS


Visitors to Brisbane!
HOTEL
Book up at the
CECIL
(FIRST CRASS)
Reasonable Tariff—Good Position.
the
BATt-ERv
“CLYDE
BATTERIES”
For RADIO, MOTOR-CARS AND
COUNTRY HOME LIGHTING.
THE CLYDE ENGINEERING COMPANY, Ltd.,
Granville; and Goulburn Street, Sydney, N.S.W.
QN
BANK
THE QUEENSLAND NATIONAL BANK, LIMITED.
Incorporated under the Companies Act 1563. Established 1872.
Directors —A. C. Luya, Esq., Chairman ; James Love, Esq. ; W. H. Hart, Esq.;
M, J. Ryan, Esq.; D. W. Macdonald, Esq.
General Manager—M. G. HAYMEN.
HEAD OFFICE BRISBANE
With offices at London, Canberra (Federal Territory), Melbourne, Sydney, and
95 branches in Queensland and Northern Rivers, N. S. Wales, also representation
through the leading Banking Institutions covering Australasia and the World, this
Bank offers the fullest facilities for the transaction of all general banking business.
TUDOR
ACCUMULATORS
for Reliability and Long Life.
Australasian Office—
TUDOR ACCUMULATOR CO., LTD.,
Culwulla Chambers, Castlereagh Street, SYDNEY.
“Boronia”: “Speakin’ about obstinate
blokes,” said Bill, “reminds me of two fellers
I useter know. They wuz camped about two
miles apart, an’ one night they got it inter
their ’eads to go ’n’ ’ave a yarn with each
other. Well, they started orf and met about
’arf-way. Do yer think either of them blokes
would give in ? No fear! After a bit uv a
row each goes/ straight on an’ spends a
coupler hours in the other bloke’s camp.
Obstinate ! They took the biscuit.”
* * * sN
“The Reefer”: The new diving-“dress”
mentioned by “Tiffy” (B. 18/8/’27) isn’t
a dress at all. It is a simple face glass,
metal-cased, secured snugly between brow
and mouth by straps. A little valve con-
trolled by the lips regulates the air supply.-
A CALL FOR VOLUNTEERS.
ACITATED CITIZEN: “Little boy, is that your mother- screaming for help?”
LITTLE BOY: “Yep. I think she wants someone to ’old the ’ole man while she belts ’im.”
There is neither body covering nor boots,
the diver being ballasted by weights
attached at his waist; these can be got rid of
in a jiffy should he wish to discard them.
The apparatus doesn’t weigh quite 12 pounds.
Not only have greater depths been reached
with it than in the Henke and other makes
in use, but it gives much greater freedom
of movement, and divers haven’t to worry
about maintaining their bodies in a perpen-
dicular position. Despite all these advan-
tages old hands objected that it left them
more at the mercy of wobbegougs, octopi,
diamond-fish and other of their underwater
enemies; also that at the greater depths
the water temperature chilled them. So the
Torres Strait Pearlers’ Association did not
exercise its option on the thing—and that
was several years ago. All the same, it is a
wonderful little contrivance, and it looks like
upsetting a lot of theories in connection with
hydrostatic pressures.
* * * *
“Toonooba”: The presence of centipedes
on apparently inaccessible sand-cays in
Torres Strait (B. 18/8/’27) is not so remark-
able as the presence on Bramble Cay, a
sandbank about 300 yards long and 100
yards wide, marking the uttermost northern
tip of the Great Barrier Reef, of a land rat,
Mclomys rubicola. This rodent differs from
its better-known relatives in slight ana-
tomical variations of the tail and feet. The
cay is a breeding-ground for innumerable
seafowl, and here, too, loathsome greenish-
yellow centipedes disturb the camper’s
dreams. There is no permanent water or
human habitation. The rats, fairly numer-
ous, are found under driftwood thrown
above high-water mark. They arrived in
the first place as castaways, probably on
rafts composed of fronds of a Nipa palm
(I examined one such on another cay) from
somewhere in the Fly Delta, New Guinea.
& * * *
“Malakuna” : The custom of buying a wife
with pigs or cash (B. 25/8/’27) no longer
holds in most parts of Neiv Guinea. I was
present in a district office recently when a
few natives stepped on the verandah. The
D.O. asked them their business. An old
colored gen’l’mari came forward nervously
and pointed to two younger natives, man
and woman. “Two fella ’e like marry,” he
explained. “Is that all?” said the D.O.
After inquiring their names, place of abode
and the like, he questioned the man : “You
like go long this fella, Mary?” “Yes, master,
me like, ’e good fella!” was the reply. The
same formula was repeated to the woman,
who answered appropriately. Then, placing
the hand of the man on the shoulder of the
woman, in token of union and ownership,
the performer of the cermony said : “Or-
right, you two fella ’e married finish.”
Time, less than three minutes.
$ $ * *
“Cuddy”: Banana, head “boy” of the
sloop Geranium, on survey work in Torres
Strait, complained one morning of a head-
ache, or, as he described it, “pain walk about
longa head.” Micky, one of his confreres,
was all sympathy, and at the close of the
day’s work induced him to lie down and
submit to treatment. This consisted of cut-
ting the patient’s forehead with a knife.
Had Micky not been stopped Banana would
most likely have lost his whole scalp. “Bad
feller debbil-debbil in that one head,” the
surgeon explained. “I bin cut it top of
Banana’s head and let him out.”
IN THE DANGER ZONE.
“I was offered, a job yesterday.”
“Good ’un?”
“Dunno — didn’t hear.”
“Up North” : The old charm-magic of the
Torres Strait Islanders depended to a great
extent on the transmission of thought to the
victim. If the charm was to work sickness'
or pain, then the sor-
cerer must stand out-
side his enemy’s house
in the dead of night
and forget all else in
concentrating his mind
to impel thoughts of
sickness and pain into
that of his victim.
Thus with the alli-
gator charm > — which
is an alligator’s tooth
rubbed well with a
poisonous fun g u s
growing among the
corals the sorcerer
stands outside the
victim’s hut and fixes
his mind on partly
hypnotising that of
the man within. Then
he slowly points the
tooth at the hut, and
makes to throw it,
quic k e n ing tli e
motions with emphasis,
at the same time
speaking his thoughts
to the victim, as thus:
“Oroki, your time has
come. The evil you
have done is being re-
turned to you a hun-
dredfold. Just as this
foul tooth covered
with poison could bite
into the vitals of you, so I command the
spirit that controls all poisons to take pos-
session of your mind and poison it to a slow
and deadly disease.” And so on.
* * * *
“Anaf”: “Echoe” is surely not referring
to the Australian variety when lie says that
a 25ft. crocodile is no curiosity (B. l/9/ ! 27).
The North Queensland specimen seldom goes
more than six or seven feet. In the Cook-
town district in 1919 I saw one shot which
measured 9ft. 3in. from snout to tail-tip;
this was reckoned an outsize. The New
Guinea croc, is generally of greater length
than the Australian, especially on the north-
eastern coast, and it is more ferocious also.
* * * *
“Gouger” : While we were anchored in the
Escape River, Cape York Peninsula, an
abo.’s dog jumped from the lugger to swim
ashore. He hadn’t paddled 20 yards when
a black snout popped up behind him. The
dog knew; his outstretched neck and hunched
shoulders told he was extended to the last
hair. Bucks ashore yelled- imprecations at
the croc.; gins screamed encouragement to
the dog, and my mate opened uf> with an
automatic. The only effect was that larger
' ripples forged from the pursuer’s snout.
He swam very much like a gigantic goanna,
but with a graceful movement of the hideous
body and a thrilling suggestion of power.
I-Ie did not bite his prey; when near enough
he slewed gently sideways, and the long,
serrated tail landed smack on the dog’s
back. The victim yelped once; then the jaws
closed, and we gazed at “ripples, ripples run-
ning red.”
* * * *
“Bihai” : The export of human skulls from
Papua, except to accredited scientists and
scientific bodies, was prohibited many years
ago, but before the embargo was placed on
the traffic an enterprising trader made a
small fortune out of it. He secretly raided
the burial caves of the Kaili natives on the
n.-e. coast and collected a large number of
skulls. In these he planted roots of orchids
packed in soil, cocoanut-fibre and a strip
of tappa-cloth. With the leaves and flower-
ing spikes peeping coyly out of the eye
sockets, his unique flower-baskets fetched
a fiver a time from tourists who were fas-
cinated by this strange “native custom.'’
About five years ago the Government, at the
request of the Royal College of Surgeons,
collected skulls from every known tribe and
sent a ghastly load to London.
H*
“Matrix”: The largest out-size in bottle-
tree girths I know of may be seen near Bell
(Q.), in the Bunya Mountain country. This
narrow-leafed species tapes 40ft. around,
and its corpulence continues for 15ft. up.
Mount Perry, further north, has one nearly
as large, its girth being 39ft., but in its
case the bottle-neck begins about six feet
from the base.
* # jn *
“Tedrich” : Alec Stewart, a big-gun drover
of Longreach (Q.), is a firm believer in
music in the camp whenever he happens to
be in charge of refractory wethers or cattle
that require watching. I have heard him
many a time quieten down a mob of restless
bullocks by playing softly on the bagpipes.
For making jumbucks settle down to camp
his pet instrument was the flageolet. Colin
Cameron, of Charleville, another well-known
drover, is also a champion of the art of
soothing the savage beast.
CLEANIN’ THE STABLE.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
M e cleaned out the stable to-day,
Because—there was nothin’ ter do!
The rain pelted all through the night
An’ turned all the paddicks ter glue.
I hitched up ole Maud ter the dray,
Yn’ turned the rest out fer a spell—
skies ’ave been sodden an’ grey,
With the sun tryin’ ’ard to peep through.
We opened it up near the door,
An’ flung it straight on ter the dray ;
The ’orses ’ad tramped it down tight,
I tell yer it wasn’t all play;
Twas easy a foot ter the floor,
But less than a foot ter the smell;
We found straps and buckles galore,
An’ the winkers an’ ’ames of ole Fay.
I jarred both me wrists such a beaut
When me banjo biffed into a rock
(It’s crook on that cobblestone floor
In the stalls between Lubra and Jock) ;
Ole Whiskers went clean off his flute
(’E’s a cow of a bloke w’en ’e’s crossed !).
’E shoved ’is fork clean through ’is boot,
An’ it give ’im a ’ell of a shock.
The barrer near ’ad me ’ands raw,
It took us a terrible time
To wheel the stuff up ter the door
Over cobbles all covered in slime.
The ’orses all slipped cornin’ in,
They seemed sorter puzzled an’ lost;
Fete tumbled an’ barked all ’is jaw,
An’ the langwidge the boss used was prime.
The missus was callin’ fer tea
Before the last load was put through;
It seemed a full hour after that
Before we sat in fer our stew.
I’m tired as a pig up a tree,
An’ stiff as a corpse in a frost;
I’m off ter the Smoke fer a spree
Nex’ time that —there’s nothin’ ter do.
VICTORIA.
OLE BLUE.


MILLER’S
ANCHOR
BRAND
BINDER TWINE
and
SEWING TWINE
Renowned throughout Australia for
Strength, Evenness, Quality and
Economic Results.
Manufactured entirely in Australia by
JAMES MILLER 8 CO. PTY„ LTD.
MELBOORNE
N.S.W. Representatives:
P. T. TAYLOR, LTD.,
141 York Street, Sydney.
■V/
1
L
WSWKJSf
on
METAL GATES
ANDFENCES
The
Original
Make
W
Depend-
able and
Durable
Cyclone Ornamental Fabric Fencing is practically everlasting. The
crimped wire pickets of No. 8 gauge are heavily galvanised, and
never require painting. Cyclone Metal Gates can be had to match
the fence. Cyclone Catalogues will be posted free on request
CYCLONE FENCE AND GATE CO. PTY. LTD.
COMMERCE BUILDING, ASH STREET (off 350 George St.), Sl'D>M ;
189-191 William Street, Melbourne; Exchange Buildings. Pine Street, Adelaide^
HENDERSON’S
WHIPS
Famous Throughout Australia.
Cost a Few Shillings More —but
Reckon the Ultimate Saving.
A Genuine “HENDERSON”
Bft. 12-Plait Double Whip,
Complete, 42/6.
7ft. ... 40/- 9ft. ... 467-
PERFECT FALLING.
SATISFACTION GUARANTEED.
Postage Paid Anywhere in Australia.
Add Exchange to Cheques.
T. Henderson 8 Sons,
Whipmakers,
313 GEORGE ST., SYDNEY, N.S.W.
THE MAN
ON THE LAND'S
PAGE
SOIL ANALYSIS.
“Burrum”: Let “Chemico” (B. 18/8/'27)
know the reason why soil analysis is to him
a fallacy. When a soil (or a plant or any
other matter with a complex chemical com-
position) is to be analysed, it has to be
re.duced to simple elements. In the case
of plants, this is done first by fire —the ash
is the mineral. With soils, it is by treating
with other chemicals (acid and bases) which
extract from natural combination, by a
greater affinity for them, those elements on
which a soil’s fertilty is judged. Thus the
natural condition of the soil contents is dis-
turbed, and their previous combination may
often be only guessed. Thus his soil of
0.009 per cent, of phosphoric acid may have
had it in a lime combination, and the 0.002
per cent, sample an iron compound of ferric
phosphate. The vigorous action of super,
on the first would be easily explained. On
the second there may not have been enough
lime to precipitate th e monocalcic super.,
and without precipitation super, is useless.
“Chemico” quotes 501 b. of phosphoric acid
as the average super, dressing. This means
231 b. of phosphoric acid. He regards this
as a slight flavor and wonders at its potency.
The point is that this, on most' soils, is pre-
cipitated to a form immediately available to
the plant. It is there ready, and not locked
in an insoluble form. Availability of plant
food is the main, and indeed the only, con-
sideration. This may be guessed by chemical
analysis—a fingerpost only. Field experi-
ment will prove or disprove such guesses and
is essential in collaboration with chemical
analysis. The two combined are ah elastic
science—if the word can be applied to a
business affected by such inconstant factors
as agriculture is.
IN PRAISE OF THE TRACTOR.
“Glenfield” : The Mallee cocky who has yet
to buy his engine for such work as chaff-
cutting, grading seed, etc., should consider
the question of the cheap tractor. With the
governor attachment procurable, the tractor
can do' this work as efficiently and more
conveniently than the stationary engine, as
it can be moved to the different jobs under
its own power, and the price is very little
more.
Should the farmer get behind with fallow-
ing operations the tractor can be used as an
auxiliary team, working up the land that
has been ploughed while the ploughman is
finishing. Again, at harvest-time for the
cocky with one team the wheat can be carted
to the station while the harvester is taking
it off; in fact, the advantage of the tractor
over the stationary engine is considerable,
but I am conservative enough not to make
use of it as the main farm team among the
Mallee sandhills.
DECLINE IN WHEAT YIELDS.
“J.G.”: A fifty-year-old pasture paddock
near Whittlesea, Vic., is now being broken
up prior to again being cultivated. This
paddock was last under crop about half a
century ago. It was formerly owned by a
woman pioneer, and when it was first turned
up the lady did the ploughing, her team
being an old cow yoked to a horse to pull
an old single-furrow. The work done was so
effective, however, that the woman farmer
secured 48 bushels of wheat per acre off
the paddock. This yield is now rarely
equalled even in the best wheat districts and
with the aid of the latest implements, etc.,
Strange that in the early history of Victoria
there were very many records of excellent
wheat yields in districts where not an acre
is sown now. Farmers in these districts
say that it is only a waste of time trying
to grow the golden grain. How did the old-
time cockies get such good results? Has the
southern climate altered or has the wheat
plant got more particular?
ENSILAGE STACKS.
“C. J.H.” : “Pick” (B. 25/8/’27) describes
silage stacks as though they were to be
recommended. I have seen many of these
and believe the method is much used in Eng-
land. But if not stacked in rain or misty,
damp weather, or hosed, this kind of silage
soon becomes a useless black powder. So
much nutriment is lost that one acre of
crop so treated would yield after a few
years only one-tenth of its real food value.
Also from weathering and the attacks of
birds and animals the stack will eventually
disappear. The pit silo is by comparison
worth much more than it costs.
SHEEP AMONG WHEAT.
“Biro”: I disagree with “Tritici” (B.
25/8/’27) when lie says it is advisable to
turn sheep into a wheat paddock in wet
weather. I daresay it depends mainly on the
sort of country it is. The practice of eat-
ing back a forward crop is always practised
by N.S.W. tableland farmers, with the
double advantage of improving the sheep
and keeping the crop from maturing too
soon. But here the jumbucks should always
be kept out during rain and while the
ground is still boggy. If left in at such a
time they will ruin the crop and leave the
surface of the soil as hard as rock. No
amount of rain can then repair the damage.
CROPS IN THE MALLEE.
“Glenfield”: In the n.-w. Mallee present
observations on early- and late-grown crops
show that the crops put in on good fallow
with the first fall of rain are far ahead of
those sown by cockies who waited for the
big rain which never came; germination has
been fairly even; forwardness is especially
marked where heavy dressings of super, have
been used. •
The earlier-sown crops, though not as clean
as usual, have stooled well and the ground
is well covered. This early growth has been
particularly beneficial on the sandhills which,
in the case of late-sown crops, have been
blown bare by three or four days of fierce
winds. Everything now depends on the Sep-
tember-October rainfall, but whatever hap-
pens no record harvest is in sight for the
north-west Mallee.
SPUD PLANTING.
“Norm S.” : Here’s a simple way of plant-
ing spuds. The ground being manured, and
in good tilth, stake your line out, then tic
to your middle a sugar bag to hold the seed.
Take a long-handled shovel, and at the be-
ginning of your row, with one hand and foot,
press the shovel into the ground right to the
hilt. Push the handle forward (don’t pull
out), and in the cavity thus made, drop
your seed with the free hand. Then pull
the handle towards you, thus firming the
tuber down. Then pull your shovel out, and
not before. Move along th e line and repeat
the action till end of row. There’s no back
bending, no hoeing of furrows, and no cover-
ing up; it’s all done with one action.
POTATOES IN QUEENSLAND.
“Sucre”: “Bad Australian” (B. 8/9/’27
says there are some good potato-growing
patches on the Burnett, but that one would
have to climb at least 3000 feet before
spuds could be grown equal to Victorian
or Tasmanian. He exaggerates. Atherton
Tableland (N.Q.) is only 2466 feet above
sea-level, and grows the best spuds in Aus-
tralia.
LET THE MILKED COW GO.
“Paul C.” : Dairymen sometimes overlook
the wisdom of letting each cow leave the
yard as she is milked. They crowd the lot
of the milkers into the yard, where they must
stay till the last one is milked. This is a
mistake.
In the first place, when new cows are
brought in, the others knock them about.
There are generally a couple of cranky
animals in the herd ready to rip anything
that comes near them. Further, the greater
the number and the longer they are kept in
the yard the more they cut the surface up,
and in showery or wet weather make a quag-
mire of it. Far better for the unwanted
animals to be out in the pasture feeding.
Hang a small gate in front of the bail at
the side on which the bail tongue falls back.
This may be worked with a rope and pulley
or thrown back by hand before the peg is
pulled out, so that each cow may be set free
as soon as milked.
BRACKENS.
“Burrundie”: I’ve had 14 years of real
brackens —not the miserable runts that
‘•Jesmond” top-dressed with superphosphates
(B. 25/8/’27). Ours are real fine healthy
fellows that would take a prize in any
show in the world. Neglected in the early
war years on the partly-cleared farms, they
stand in a solid wall, and “Jesmond” would
require an aeroplane to see over the top of
them, let alone top-dress them.
There are two tried and proved methods
of dealing with bracken. If they’ve been
neglected long enough they will carry a fire
without cutting. Burn in the spring, about
November. Disc-plough as deeply as possible
during the summer months, sow heavily with
oats and feed off. Plough again in the
spring and sow millet heavily. Then plough
again in the middle of summer and sow in
grass or clover in the early autumn. The
few bracken that show up in the spring must
be dealt with while in the loop-and-curl
stage by cutting as often as they appear.
Another method has been used success-
fully by several South Gippsland graziers.
In the early autumn burn whatever will burn
clean while standing. Cut and burn the
balance. On the ashes put in a heavy sow-
ing of grasses and clovers. Then cut the
brackens whenever they show up. A flat
hook is the best implement. Never allow
the fern leaf to form. It may take eight or
nine cuttings in a good year. The second
year three or four will be sufficient, and the
third year will find the ferns in small tufts,
few and far between. These tufts are then
hoed up, roots and all.
The latter method will apply only to old
neglected bracken. Above all, don’t mess
about with a firestick or a fern-hook unless
you can either plough at once, or cut and
keep cut before the leaf stage. The occa-
sional cutting only strengthens the root
system. Fire does the same and applies
potash to invigorate the plant.
RAISING BABY BEEF.
“Bad Australian”: In raising baby beef
(B. 8/9/’27) the animal should have ample
supplies of nutritive food at all times, with
plenty of green feed when the natural grasses
dry off. And a mild climate is essential, as
the growth of the animal must not be checked
in any way from start to finish.
The southern parts of Australia do not
offer the best conditions for the profitable
production of baby beef under ordinary grass-
feeding conditions, as animals raised in the
open are always subjected to a severe set-
back during the months of June, July and
August. Although the weather conditions
further north would be, favorable to the un-
checked development of young stock, the pro-
vision of sufficient nutritive green feed dur-
ing the dry months would present many diffi-
culties, except in a few favored areas.
Having regard to these considerations alone
it would appear that Australia w T ould not be
able to compete with the Argentine in the
production of this class of beef. In the
Argentine provinces of Buenos Ayres, Santa
Fe and Cordoba, where the baby beef is
raised, the climate is exceptionally mild; and,
as the supplies of growing alfalfa (lucerne)
are practically unlimited, the animals are on
the up grade from the day they are dropped
until they reach the freezer.
HOLDING PIGS FOR PROFIT.
“Spike”: “Sylvester” (B. 25/8/’27) wants
to know how pigs are held over adverse mar-
kets till a good sale can be effected. Here
are some hints that may help him :-
Grow and conserve your own fodder —
don’t buy it.
Never depend solely on skim-milk as a
ration—if your cows go off, so’ll your pigs.
Keep your stock in good condition at all
times and allow no setback in their growth.
Remember that 50 ner cent, more feed is
required to fatten a runt than to keep con-
dition on a well-grown pig.
By rearing his stock along these lines the
pig-raiser is sure of a wide market. Should
suckers be at a discount he is enabled to
hold them for light, medium or heavy porkers
or else cater for the bacon market. A pig
properly fed will show a gain in weight
of about 71b. per week, and should be a
light baconer at five months. The raiser is
very unlucky if he cannot strike one decent
market during that period.
WOOL-POOLING FOR SMALL
GROWERS.
“M.S.F.”: In reference to wool-pooling for
small growers (“R. E. Combing,” B.
21/7/’27, and “Leo Lear,” 25/8/’27), in
South Australia the practice of pooling wool
for small men has been carried on ever since
the resumption of auction sales in the season
1920-21. The work has been done in the
wool-stores by the brokers; practically all
mixed bales, which run into thousands, and
more than. 100,000 bags are classed and
bulked in a season.
The systems differ, but results are similar.
Weights are carefully kept of individual
growers’ wool, and whether it be fleece,
pieces, bellies, lambs or locks, the wool is
classed and bulked according to quality, con-
dition and color, free or burry. Under this
method lines of 50 and up to 100 bales are
to be seen offering. These come in for excel-
lent competition from overseas buyers. The
growers are charged |d. lb., which only just
covers the cost of the work. The enhanced
value obtained through better competition
more than pays this cost.
The book-keeping relating to the work is
well systematised and gives no trouble.
Brokers find it more economical to handle
baled wool than a multitude of bags.
In 1920 one company classed and bulked
thousands of bales of farmers’ clips. The job
was an excellent one, and if the market had
not fallen from a high level to a low one in
about a month it’s a cert, that most of the
cockies would now be pooling. Trouble arose
when wool, which was entitled to be offered
in an early sale, was delayed through the
reclassing and sold in later sales at pence per
lb. lower than the prices realised earlier for
unclassed wool. Such delays don’t often
occur now. Another company has been pool-
ing small clips for a number of seasons with
good results to the grower, chiefly from the
clean wool districts of the State.
It is district pooling, but the work is
done in the wool-stores by expert wool-men.
This is the best place for the job. Interlotted
wools contain variations in quality and con-
dition, but under the bulk-classing methods
each type of wool is properly grouped.
There are also a number of sheds in South
Australia where pooling is done on the same
system as at Melville Forest (Vic.).
The practice is extending, and will become
general as growers realise the benefits. Pro-
vided the wool is properly handled so that
the grower gets his lot into the sale it is
entitled to be in, selling brokers’ reclassing
departments are likely to be kept busy.
WOOL AND ARTIFICIAL SILK.
“G.G.6”: Premier Lyons, of Tasmania,
having remarked that he does not think
the establishment of an artificial-silk indus-
try in Australia will interfere with the Aus-
tralian wool industry, has been subjected
to criticism by some of the pessimists in the
wool-growing business or closely connected
therewith. One of these calls attention to
the determination of a huge spinning
concern, with its capital of twenty millions,
to exploit fully a new process for making
artificial silk. But it is already doubt-
ful whether the stuff will replace wool
to any serious extent, though it may replace
the real silk of which it is almost an
exact reproduction. Recent American advices
show that artificial silk has very definite
limitations as a wool substitute. That
country was so seriously inundated by the
synthetic-silk craze till lately that the
American woolgrow r ers were thinking of
striking up the “Nunc Dimittis.” Now they
have revived on finding that the nation is
again beginning to use wool for the old
purposes and in the old quantities, having,
apparently, found that “art” silk cannot
adequately take its place.
The real danger to this country’s wool
trade would seem to be, not the intrusion
of an artificial substitute, but the flooding
of the world’s markets by over-production.
That may be a long way off yet, but Aus-
tralia has herself done her bit to hasten the
day by helping South Africa, for one. to a
footing in a market which she should have
done her best to make her own special
preserve.
RUGGING SHEEP.
“Cam”: A farmer in this district (Central
Riverina), while shearing recently, picked
out the weakest of his ewes that w T ere rear-
ing lambs and rugged them. He had a num-
ber of sacks that had contained superphos-
phates on hand and these he cut, slipping
the head of the sheep through one corner and
a hind leg through each of the bottom end
corners. There was no sewing required and
the rugs stayed on. The ewes which were
rugged, although the weakest of the flock at
the time, are now stronger and in better con-
dition than the others. His neighbors laughed
at him at first, but are now beginning to
think there was method in his madness. The
cost, except for the time occupied in fitting
the bags, was nil,
TIIE BLOW-FLY PEST.
“Bung”: “B. Temple’s” unbelief (B.
11/8/’27) notwithstanding, rabbit destruc-
tion has been largely responsible for
the blow-fly pest of recent summers. But
the abnormal increase has been due not so
much to the increase of breeding grounds
afforded by rotting rabbit carcases as to the
extermination of birds that formerly preyed
on the flies. In country districts that once
were gay with numerous insect-devouring
birds, to see one now is a rarity. They have
been wiped off by phosphorus. I have seen
swarms of birds of many varieties hungrily
following a poison-cart and greedily mopping
up the baits as they were laid. Next day
the trail of that cart could more easily be
followed by the dead birds than by poisoned
bunnies or wheel-tracks. What can “B.
Temple” expect from such wholesale slaughter
of the birds, other than a tilt in nature's
balances?
TRAINING SHEEPDOGS.
“Jim Domino” : As a boy I owned working
sheepdogs, and all were trained in play.
Later, in my jackeroo days, I was frequently
among the famous King and McLeod dogs,
and what I learnt from them and other
breeds confirmed the soundness of my boy-
hood method of teaching. If a dog thinks he
(Continued on page 31.)


■■
:
. •■;
■
. ,:
VITALITYI
STOCK LICK
>■■■
.
mm
hh
$
Eh
: ■
*5
lii
:
- V '
. »• V- ... r
. . . ■- \ :
■
m
BPSw'SI
.- -V
f
HMIHH
.
. : ->>;
v -' :
- ' •
I.IX
- :•&; ■■
:
mum
m i
#
n
i'A
:
MI
H
&
*
slB
Min
■
sR«
w : /, pc*Wi
WKH
■
;■
:
■ <5
1
w
IH
11 lll|
■
ii
HM
®p
a
hi
u
o
m
99
m m
I
S
jpfJ
■
*ll
Mr. Sheepowner
m
m
mm i
ffilllifll
After all !!
The testimony of PRACTICAL and EXPERIENCED
men is the best guide. ... ...
m
15
ft*
*■ , '
Junee,
August 9, 1926.
Dear Sirs, —In February, 1925, I took delivery of a line of Weaners which I purchased
on Monaro, and after I got them home they turned out to be very flukey and were dying-
like flies. I purchased a ton of “LIX-ALL” through your Agents at Junee, and began
giving it to these flukey sheep. Very soon I saw an improvement in them and they left
off dying, and in the course of a few months they had left off coughing and they were
Quite sound and healthy. It gives me much pleasure and satisfaction tc recommend the
“LIX-ALL” to anyone who may have flukey sheep.
Kindly send me another half ton immediately. Yours faithfully,
“Eurolie,” Junee Reefs. JOS. HEFFERNAN.
“Marian Vale,”
Bungonia Road,
Via Goulburn,
April 29, 1926.
Dear Sir, —I already have a supply of “LIX-ALL,”
and have used same in the dry time, and I find it
to be a good lick; sheep put on condition, whilst
other sheep on other licks lost condition. Would
like to tell you that I have recommended it to
others in this district, and will do by best for
you.
I remain, Yours truly,
(Signed) H. W. RIX.
Sole Agents for New South Wales:—
THE COMMONWEALTH WOOL & PRODUCE CO., LTD., 3 BENT STREET, SYDNEY


i
Improvements Produce
Still Finer Results
A new five-bearing crankshaft of finest
alloy steel, together with other improve-
ments announced at the same time, has
literally revolutionised the performance of
Dodge Brothers Motor Car.
You must go far higher in price to find
its equal in zest, flexibility and smoothness
of power. The best proof of this statement
is personal experience in the car. We will
be glad to provide you an opportunity at
your convenience.
Standard Touring - - - £299
Standard Roadster - - - £299
Sedan - -- -- -- -- £4lO
Coupe £395
Five Disc Wheels and Balloon Tyres.
Canada Cycle & Motor Co. (Victoria) Pty., Ltd., Melbourne.
Austral Motors, Limited, Brisbane—Townsville.
The Standardised Motors, Ltd., Sydney.
Waymouth Motor Co., Ltd., Adelaide.
Winterbottom Motor Co., Ltd., Perth.
Dodbe* Brothers
MOTOR OARS
22/9/27,


Ho spluttering!
:/b
f/m
iif
Ho jerking:
mm
wmatm
m m
M
k
HP
It
r
Ho shaking!
no leafilncj!
Ho Flooding!
ds
r 5 soon as you open a
y 'Swan, Uj> ready to write
When you buy a “ SWAN ” you have
a pen which is made to last a lifetime.
Your trusty “ SWAN ” never leaks or
floods; never requires shaking or jerking
into action.
Every cc SWAN ” Pen has to pass the
most rigorous inspections before it is
sold.
Self-filling ct Swans ” from 17/6. Ask for “ SWAN ” INK
OF STATIONERS & JEWELLERS
MABIE, TODD & CO., LTD.,
133 & 135 Oxford Street, London, W.r.
Factory: Swan Works, London, N.W.
Agents and Repair Service Depot t
PHIPSON & COMPANY, LTD.,
Broughton House, 181 Clarence Street,
SYDNEY.
h
ĥ
CAUSTIC SODA
(ELECTROLYTIC)
LIQUID — 32 per cent. Na2o.
POWDEIIED 98 per cent. NaOH.
SULPHURIC ACID—I.B3 s.g.
SULPHURIC ACID, C.P.—
Guaranteed chemically pure
by analysis.
HYDROCHLORIC AClD—
(Muriatic) Commercial, 33%
HYDROCHLORIC ACID, C.P.
Guaranteed chemically pure
by analysis. _
CARBON TETRA CHLORIDE.
REFINED CHILEAN SALT-
PETRE
SULPHUR MONOCHLORIDE.
ZINC CHLORIDE.
SULPHATE OF IRON.
POWDERED SULPHUR.
PHOSPHORIC ACID, 70%
PHOSPHATIC COMPOUNDS.
CONCENTRATED SOLDER-
ING AND TINNING FLUXES.
LIQUID CHLORINE
100 per cent, pure Anhydrous
In 100, 150 and 20001 b. Containers.
SODIUM HYPOCHLORITE.
MANUFACTURED BA
THE MOUNT LYELL CHEMICAL WORKS,
Collins House, 381 Little Collins Street, Melbourne.
WORKS: YARRAVILUE, VICTORIA.
is playing a game when in reality he is
working for you, he will put more vim into
the job than if driven to it. The timid dog-
needs careful handling, and, as a pup, should
be taken in kindly hands until it has gained
confidence in its master and understands that
a loud voice is not always an angry one.
When firmly under control, brought about
by a series of lessoss with the pup tied to
a long rope, and attended with best results
when the commands are whistled, the dog
may be taken for its first run. This should
be on a cool day and the distance short.
If the dog “shows,” do not check him too
much, a few encouraging remarks to the
tyke, even if he just “sools” after the sheep,
will keep his interest. In subsequent runs
lie can be checked at will, but should always
be made to come well behind when being
cast to prevent him crossing his cast. For
a fast day amongst wild sheep, such as
shorn wethers in a large, scrubby paddock,
the kelpie is invaluable. Usually a wide
worker, with plenty of eye, he will do his
work quietly and with the rapidity of a
greyhound. For wild sheep, mustering in
large areas, several of these dogs should be
kept, for they are liable to get footsore.
One of the best all-round dogs for three
sheep or three thousand is the Border collie
crossed with the kelpie and breeding back to
the kelpie. I had four of these dogs, mother,
daughter and three sons, and what I couldn’t
get together with any of ’em wasn’t worth
collecting. Always in the yards when being
educated I kept dogs chained up. This, aided
by a few imitative barks by myself and the
excitement of sheep running before them
without their being able to race with them,
taught them to bark without biting.
BETTER SHEEP STATISTICS.
“Nonie”: “Hoki Mut” (B. 18/8/’27)
evidently isn’t familiar with the form used
in Queensland to collect sheep statistics. It
appears to meet his requirements. It is in
two sections, required to balance each other.
In the first section owners are asked to
supply the number of sheep held on January
1, the lambs marked and the purchases and
transfers to the holding during the year. In
the second section the sales and transfers
from the holding, the losses and the number
killed for rations during the 12 months and
the number remaining on hand on December
31 are recorded. This last figure is taken
as the starting-point on the succeeding return,
and so on from year to year. Thus any
honest sheep-owner, by filing a copy of his
return, has a complete yearly balance-sheet.
Under the heading “Dosses,” owners are
required to supply approximate figures_ s under
the following headings: Cancer, dingoes,
drought, flood, fly, lambing, old age and
shearing—a fairly comprehensive list.
FEEDING SHEEP-DOGS.
“Te Hipi” : I don’t approve of “R. Mart's”
method of feeding his dogs (B. 18/8/27).
With one exception never feed dogs on the
morning of a working day. The dog s ances-
tors didn’t get a feed in the morning until
they had run their tucker down. So dont
feed your dog until his work is done; he
will work a lot better for it. Push as nvuch
tucker into him at night as you like. The
exception is the lead dog. Feed him well in
the morning and lie will be sluggish and
slow, thus holding the sheep together better.
AlsOj he won’t hop over the fence to the
first dead sheep he smells on the road and
leave you in the lurch just at the time you
perhaps need him most.
THE HORSE-EXPORT TRADE.
“Waler”: That fading ember, the Aus-
tralian horse-export industry, will not shed
any tears at hearing that the Americans
intend to butt in to the overseas horse-
carrying trade between this country and
India. For a long time past the British
India Co., one of the Incheape subsidiaries,
has had a monopoly of what is still a profit-
able business, and has let exporters know
it, charging £l4 per head to ferry nags over
the short journey to Bombay or Calcutta,
with all the risk and responsibility on- the
shippers. Now the Roosevelt line, which
operates some of the American Shipping
Board’s steamers, has come along with an
offer to do the carrying at £l2 per head.
C fair price, and a paying one, especially
for the 8.1., with its comparatively low
labor costs, would be about £9. The rivals
may cut rates still further, but it is too
much to hope that either of them will con-
descend to come down to that. They are
more likely to cut the business 50-50, and
bung the price up to the old standard, or
even higher.
CAPONS AND SURPRISE “BOXES.”
“Momokeni”: I am sorry to act as a wet
blanket on Mrs. Lance Rawson’s idea of fos-
tering the capon industry by means of the
“box” trade, but I would like to remind her
that few returned soldiers are ideally situ-
ated as she was, with a bearing orchard
and market garden as well as a poultry-
farm from which to stock such boxes, nor
have they the bank balance to carry heavy
book debts.
The “box” trade has been tried by others
and was successful at first, but, after the
novelty wore off, boxes were mislaid or cus-
tomers forgot to return them. Then some
demanded out-of-season vegetables, and
whilst one wanted asparagus another
couldn’t abide carrots. One or two wrote
that they expected, as the boxes came from
the country (where, according to the newspaper
reports, fruit was rotting in the orchards
and vegetables and fowls were to be had
for the picking up), that the produce should
be only half city prices. So the box trade
languished and customers returned to the
Dago fruiterer and the Chinese gardener
and bought their dressed fowls from the
poulterer.
The huge amount of work entailed in the
preparation of the boxes, Mrs. Rawson
acknowledges, requires 4iired labor, but in
these days of Rural Awards, Child Endow-
ment and Workers’ Compensation, the 12s.
6d. Mrs. Rawson speaks of would not pay
wages, let alone box and contents, whilst
to burden the wife with dressing capons and
packing boxes in addition to her already
heavy work is unthinkable.
It probably is correct that there is a sec-
tion of the Sydney public which demands
the best, irrespective of cost. But nowa-
days motorists can buy fruit and vegetables
and dressed poultry at the country roadside
stalls and probably.prefer this to “surprise”
boxes.
I had my latest and my last lesson the
other week in the folly of trying to educate
public taste. I sent to market half a dozen
prime crossbred ducklings, the last of a
flock I reared in the hopes of creating a
demand for a small, fine-flavored bird, as
against the large-carcased Muscovy. I re-
ceived the sum of 15s. for them, out of
which I had to pay for motor transport to
Sydney. So now I shall confine myself to
putting a little flesh on skinny Leghorn
cockerels and rearing Muscovy drakes, for
both of which there is a steady demand
which brings in a fair profit.
FOUL-BROOD IN BEES.
“Larrapinta” : With the coming of spring
many beekeepers, on examining their hives to
see how the bees have come through the
winter, will discover the apiarist’s night-
mare—foul-brood. It is the most destruc-
tive bee disease on earth, and is caused by a
germ which attacks the young larva; in the
combs, causing them to die and then turn
putrid. For lack of young bees to replace
the old worn-out working bees the swarm
weakens and finally dies out. It is highly
contagious, and in a dearth of honey, when
the bees are trying to rob each other’s hives
of their stores, the bees carry the contagion
right through the hives, so that in a short
time every swarm in the apiary becomes in-
fected with the disease. Worse still, other
bees near by, including the wild swarms in
the trees, contract it too. If this happens,
a whole district is barred to beekeepers, be-
cause as soon as they shift into it their bees
become diseased. To-day parts of Tasmania
and South Australia are so infected.
The disease will never cure itself and
only prompt and drastic methods of treat-
ment are successful. As soon as a case is
discovered, the entrance should be narrowed
down on the infected hive, and a clean, new
hive prepared, with combs containing sheets
of foundation. Then, just before a cool
change in the weather occurs, the bees should
be shaken off the diseased combs into the
new hive, and the diseased combs and hive
burnt in a pit and the ashes covered thickly
with earth. The result of this treatment is
that the bees use up any infected honey in
their stomachs to make wax to build new
combs on the foundation, and the cold
w 7 eather stops them from swarming off in
disgust at the change of hives. After this, a
careful watch must be kept on the hive to
see that the disease doesn’t recur.
STOCK AND RIVER WEEDS.
“Red Wattle”: “Wandi’s” par. about cows
and horses eating “swamp grass” (B.
l/9/’27) reminds me that in a severe drought
I have seen draught-horses live and fatten
with nothing but river weeds to eat. They
would stand all day in water up to their
backs, and plunge their heads in up to
the ears wdien all the surface weeds were
done. White or partly-wdiite animals that
frequent weedy water become dyed a rusty
red, the stain remaining for years after-
wards.
HINTS FOR THE FARM.
“rick” : To mend a small hole or crack in
a galvanised-iron tank or roof, paint thickly
over the spot with any white-lead paint and
stick on the wet paint a patch of muslin or
cheese-cloth. Over that put on two or three
alternate layers of paint and strong calico.
“Yufu”: To cure a jibbing horse use a
light sulky-whip with a good lash. Go all
over the horse with the whip, hitting him
smartly, until you come to a spot which,
when struck, will cause the beast to flinch.
Dwell on this spot, lashing steadily until
the horse begins to fidget. Then you know’
how to deal with him.
“Calendar”: To make a good spray for
aphis, put a pound of tobacco-leaf or stem
in a petrol-tin and fill with water; cover
and let stand for three days agitating occa-
sionally. Drain the liquid off through a
piece of cheese-cloth or similar material.
Dissolve a tablespoonful of soap in a quart
of hot water and add. Spray under as well
as over the leaves and twigs until they drip,
and choose a fine day, or the rain will wash
the spray off.
“Fred Rich”: A fox-poisoning method I
have employed with invariable success is to
bore a three-inch hole in the ground with
a good-sized auger, and after dragging the
trail fill the hole with poisoned fat, keeping
the hands off it, of course.
“Hayband” : To soften an old paint-brush,
suspend it clear of the bottom in a strong
solution of soda and water for 24 hours, the
solution being kept warm throughout. Then
wash clean with soap and water.
“Gundy” : Although “Puketapu’s” Angoras
(B. 14/7/’27) took the count, he says, through
eating rhododendron leaves, the plant doesn’t
seem to harm bovines. The other day I
gave an irate M.L. cocky a hand to muster
five steers trespassing in the homestead
garden. On examination, we found about
a dozen young ’dendrons eaten to the stumps;
and to top off with they had given a hedge
of the matured shruh a severe trimming. I
mentioned “Puketapu’s” warning to the
owner, and left him giving the butcher’s
knife a grind. However, he tells me the
brindles are apparently none the worse for
the diet, and are still mooching round for
an opportunity to give it another go.
“O. List”: An effective remedy for woolly
aphis on apple-trees is to rub the attacked
parts with ordinary kitchen dripping. Often
one application has proved sufficient.
“Davey Solong”: “Two Seas” (B.
7/7/’27) gives some good hints on the care
of hides, but it is wrong to hang sheep-
skins on wire, especially rusty wire. The
contact with iron, more so in the case of
pelts, will spoil them for tanning. I have
seen a dozen skins tanned lately and all of
them had a black mark, the thickness of the
wire on which they were dried, from head
to tail. Most of them broke apart along
this mark, which did not appear until the
skin was put in the tan-bark


HPhe first puff convinces you
of the superior quality of
io
for
9 a
CIGARETTES
20
for
1/6
In pure ribbed watermarked rice paper,
CAVANDERS Ltfl., London (Est. 1775), Pioneers of Hygienic Cigarette Packing.
2
im*
•p'
S -'\V
CORK TIPPED
or PLAIN
SMOKE-OH
ONCE AGAIN THE SEXES ARE
EQUAL.
JILL : “Nowadays men don’t try to hide be-
hind women’s skirts, do they, dear?”
BILL: “No, darling—and neither do women.”
The boarders find it a raw morning when
the cook has overslept.
The S. M. Herald is so careful that it
even brakes the news to us.
Motoring is heavenly for pedestrians.
“HE COMETH NOT.”
“Oh, Life’s a tangled skein of thread,”
This was what her grannie said,
“And knots most difficult you’ll find.”
The maiden tossed her sunny head:
“For lovers’ knots I’m quite inclined;
He cometh not's the not I mind!”
London. Kitty Clive.
Some social climbers will even scale the
tradesmen.
* *
A man is as old as he feels; a woman as
old as she thinks lit.
* *
In a Sydney case in which a man named
Cohen was charged with embezzlement, it
was stated that his predecessor, one Gum-
ming, had had a similar charge laid against
him. The firm seems to have got it Gum-
ming and Cohen.
* *
“H.H.” ; One of the girls left her purse,
and the shop assistant, anxious to be obliging,
dashed after them. “Did you see two young
ladies get into the tram?” he demanded of
the young man lounging at the tram-stop.
“One of them w T as dark, with blue eyes ; the
other had golden curls, and both were
dressed” The young man interrupted
him. “What color were their garters?” he
asked.
“Dum Spiro”: The little room was dark,
and its solitary occupant, bent over some-
thing in the corner, suddenly straightened.
and, with outstretched hands, began
moving towards the door. His
hands groped up and down in gradu-
ally widening circles, searching for
that which he knew was in the
room. Hadn’t he seen it when he
came in just the day before to have
a look round? They wouldn’t have
taken it away so soon. Blindly
he felt, seeking, ever seeking. Of
a sudden his voice split the silence
—“God, O God!” and the sound
crashed against the walls. Throw-
ing caution to the winds lie began
dashing about until suddenly his
groping fingers closed over the little
white, soft object lie sought. And he wiped
the soap out of his eyes.
* *
In prehistoric days the savage man
Tore skins from beasts to robe his docile
bride.
The dear’s extended now the ancient plan—
She skins her lord, too, ere she’s satisfied.
n.s.w. H. H.
The surest cure for seasickness is to bolt
your food down.
When the bloom of youth goes from a
woman she makes up for it in other ways.
The man who talks about his achieve-
ments with women finds some day that he
is skiting on thin ice.
There are some people who would doubt
a man’s fidelity to his wife because he likes
to travel by a fast train.
“Defendant,” according to the police-court
report, “indignantly denied that he was
drunk. He declared that he tried to become
inebriated but couldn’t.” The flesh was
willing but the spirit weak.
When punters their sentences pass
On a horse whose racing they rue,
They don’t always leave it at that —
They will oft add a rider thereto.
n.s.w. Ex-Loot.
The best drop of Scotch the newspapers
have had lately was, of course, in'America.
Smugglers from Canada, using an aeroplane,
were shot down 20 miles from the border by
a patrol. They had 20 cases of a well-
known brand aboard.
A strategist is a man who buys a camera
so that he will be able to ask his wife to
look pleasant.
* *
“Deceased in his youth was a noted sports-
man and a champion billiard-player, who
professed atheistic views; his cousin Canon
Sheldon concerned himself about his con-
version, wdiich when it occurred within a year
of his death made a profound difference in
his life.” — Leisure Hour.
“How did you dodge,” St. Peter asked,
“Hell’s fire, the sinner’s ban, an’
His doom?” “Oh I,” the soul replied,
“Just cushioned off the canon.”
N.s.w. H. H.
There is nothing like a blowout for mak-
ing a motorist fed up.
* *
When we meet a man who whines we wish
he would drop his aitches.
* ❖
Some of our girls seem wrapped up in
themselves and little else’.
The landlord hears many excuses, but
can generally find tenants out.
One cliap we knew was so superstitious
he wouldn’t even wear a sac suit to work.
The divorce suit that hasn’t got a large
cheque in it somewhere attracts but little
attention nowadays.
ZOOLOGICAL.
“D’ your wife like that white fox you
bought ’er?”
“No. Fur as she’s concerned, it’s a white
elephant!”
A square meal is a meal that has gone
round.
# *
Even the most polite politician will not
give up his seat to a lady.
Many a man who gets up late has a
scrambled egg for breakfast.
“Those whom the gods love die young,”
but women dye just whenever the color of
their hair doesn’t' suit them.
A beggar, charged at the Sydney Central,
was let off, as it was declared that this
was his first offence. A baby in alms.
The other day I went away.
I never counted years,
So cannot say
How long I stayed ;
Time simply disappeared.
When I came back
Ah ! then alack !
I looked round in amaze;
My pals of youth
Had gone, forsooth!
So now I count the days.
N.s.w. R. A. G.
A man claims to have invented an
unbreakable gramophone record. The ques-
tion is what is to be done with the man.
* *
Poiret, the French dressmaker, says that
women will wear trousers by 1957. It will
be a bracing development, anyhow.
* *
Silence reigned in the bar, where nine
gentlemen moodily communed with flies and
fluids. Suddenly the door flew open and
admitted the butcher from three doors along.
He advanced with a firm tread and an up-
tilted chin. “Good morning,” he remarked
to the man in the white jacket. “William
Shakspeare was the first Premier of New T
South Wales, John Milton was the second
and Henry Lawson the third. Ours is a
great and glorious country and what we do
here we have to pay for hereafter. Give
me a small beer.” The barman did so, and
the butcher drank, enthusiastically. The
moody gentlemen looked at the butcher and
then at one another. At last one broke the
silence. “I think,” he said nervously, “that
you’re wrong, Henry Lawson never got into
Parli’ment.”
* sS:
A surgeon in New York, a Sydney daily
reports, left his forceps inside a patient.
It is understood that a conference is to
be held at Geneva to fix the rate of interest
which shall be paid on the capital cost.
The most even-tempered civil servant
doesn’t mind losing his head.
With women marriage is the rite of
conquest.
* *
The Sun published a portrait of “three
pretty sisters from St. Mary’s.” The Belles
of St. Mary’s.
»!' *i :
The N.S.W. elections campaign will soon
be in full blast, and then many politicians
will be fired with enthusiasm.
* *
There is a movement to prevent insane
people from marrying; but we will never
countenance this attempt to wipe out mar-
riage.
Canada is going to pass a law to dis-
courage, foolhardy aeroplaning. In Australia
the purpose is already achieved to a con-
siderable extent by the Law of Gravity.
After seeing it three times Baldpate re-
marked that the name was wrongly printed.
It ought to be “Lad Y Be Good?”
Science has made great changes in the
world. Nowadays, for instance, a young man
is not surprised if, when he goes to give
his girl a ring, he gets the engaged signal.
FIGURATIVELY SPEAKING.
Her figure it is large and fat,
Her cash a sum of pride;
And so her figure’s settled that
She figures as his bride.
N.S.W. P. P.
ONE FOR THE DEAR PARSON.
“And how do your daughter and her
husband get on together, Mrs. Gay?”
“She says he’s a bit dull, but I tell her
that’s always the way with men —the
better they are the duller they are.”
“Peggy-0”: They say that knee-length
skirts have reduced tram accidents by 50 per
cent. Wouldn’t it be lovely if accidents
could be prevented entirely!
CHANGE.
The “flannelled fools” are marching out
To greet the new King, Cricket,
For Summer’s bowled grey Winter out
And taken Football’s wicket.
N.s.w. H. H,
HOOTS AND SHOES.
1 sec them on the pavement,
As I look beneath the blind:
Seme of th'eni skip
And some of them tramp
And some of them lay behind.
Small, thin, high-heeled boots
With dainty straps on the top—
They jazz along
To a negro song
That never seems to stop.
Long, flat, corpulent boots
With holes cut for the corns—■
They shuffle and skate
And hesitate
In fear of stoues and thorns.
Bright, tight business boots
With blocked American toes—
Horn-rimmed specs
And “picture” ’tecs.
And a long drawl through the nose.
Large, broad, tliick-soled boots
With uppers all-of-a-piece—
They clump and creak
And crunch and squeak
And simply yell “Police!”
Soft, shapeless sabotines
On podgy, toddling toes—
And where might you
Be journeying to?
The watching Lord He knows!
Broad, easy, world-wise boots
On the feet of the patient old—
You have—sing low —
Not far to go
To the Land of Rainbow Gold!
I see them on the pavement
As I look beneath the blind,
And some they skip,
And some they trip,
And some lay far behind ;
And I wonder if the thing they seek
Ts the thing that they shall find..'
S.A.
C. H. SOUTER,
EXIT.
A w'earied-looking actor —-
Well, he didn’t quite impress.
I longed to see his finish
In his sheepskin cowboy dress.
A fellow with a shooter
Was flicked on in a jiff;
lie fired straight at the tired one,
But he merely bored me stiff!
N.S.W.
COUNT 99.
NEW NURSERY RHYMES.
Little Miss Muflit sat on a tuffet
Crying her calves were fat;
Up came a stockrider, and sat down beside her
And said “My word, they are that.”
Mary had a little lamb
(That’s out of date) but oh,
The things he used to buy for her-
By gum, she wasn’t slow!
liide a crook horse on any racecourse
And strewth! won’t you make all the poor
punters cross !
The ring where the bookies give odds to
the jays
Will echo loud curses on many race days.
N.S.W.
AITCIISEE.
PUT AND TAKE.
A smart young man who owned a shop,
Desiring to awaken
More public interest in his goods,
Wrote up: “Deposits Taken.”
Good people paid deposits in ;
Their faith was still unshaken.
But when he fled they learned what he
Meant by “Deposits taken !”
N.S.W.
F. A. L.


: .
t
9 s*
V*
*l4
• *
If
*>
4.4
II
■IHIIIIJIjLr
A
V
,•*»
•■* h
,**• *
••IJIIMII I
2'««i.u
\
; I
f
D 17+1
1
’&
'-W
*<«
111
\1 »»••!
•llr.ffl
''"tv!
*
Miffs!
&S 8
as
*•
SB
*:♦
l*
V*
♦ *
&
%&*!&&&nnn
WV
w
ass**:
v*>>
13
V>J<L*
If both you and he have come to the con-
clusion that a drop of something will do
both of you good\ let it be White Horse
Whisky —and it will
WhitlS
* Scotch Wflldr
SE
WHITE HORSE DISTILLERS LTD.
Glasgow.
DALGETY & COMPANY LTD.,
Agents.


Before Booking Your
Passage
CONSULT
THOS. COOK AND SON
COOK 3
w
m
The only Firm in the World
with permanent offices in all
countries to give service and
assistance to Travellers.
Their Uniformed Interpreters at all
ports and stations in Europe assist their
patrons in passing Customs examina-
tions, registering baggage, etc.
Passages Booked by all Lines.
Travellers* Cheques Issued.
Insurance of Baggage Effected.
Escorted Tours to Europe, etc.
Australian Farmers’ Tour to Europe,
Inclusive Independent Tours.
Summer Holiday Tours.
Sailing Lists, Programmes and all Information
Post Free from
THOS. COOK AND SON
MELBOURNE:
269 Collins Street.
ADELAIDE:
49a Grenfell Street.
SYDNEY:
Martin Place.
PERTH:
22 Forrest Place (Opp. G.P.0.)
o
§™
ML
InJ
See how alive ENO is!
ADD a “dash” of ENO to a glass of water,
see how it springs immediately to bubbling
life. ENO’s “Fruit Salt” is so different from other
preparations —it does not require to be stirred into
activity, and there is no gritty residue nothing
nauseating —no waste.
In fact, ENO provides the most pleasant way
of eliminating waste products from the system,
removing the causes of constipation, indigestion,
liver disorders, depression and sleeplessness.
To preserve good health, drink a glass of water
every morning sparkling with a “dash” of ENO.
Prepared only by
J. C. ENO, Limited,
London, England.
Sales Agents: The British
Harold F.Ritchie &. Co.,
Ltd.. Sydacy, N.S.W.
♦ ♦
♦♦
ħ
IN
TWO SIZES
AT CHEMISTS
AND STORES.
h
THE WORDS "fRUIT SALT” AND BNO ARE REGISTERED TRADE MARKS.
(&wxt Austral Nn. 4 Art imou
(By permission Attorney-General. A/.S. PF,}
FOR THE
LIMBI:
OItERS
PROVIDENT
FUND
3
FIRST PRIZES
I HUDSON COACH .£465
2 59 ** X4&5
3 it ** *^465
and 870 other Valuable Articles from it7s to IS
n:ludins Player Piano and Linen Chest
BUY ONLY THE RED TICKET—ACCEPT NO OTHER
Trusted by the people and with a reputation gained by the conduct of
our last three Art Unions, which paid full prize money and were drawn to
time, the Limbless Soldiers will again keep faith.
The proceeds are in aid of the Provident Fund of the Limbless Soldiers’
Association, and are invested at interest by Trustees to provide for the old
age of limbless returned men.
TICKETS I/-
By Post
i/ii
6 TICKETS 6/- POST FREE
0. BEYERS, Hon. Secretary, 19 Bligh Street, Sydney
&h 9 ID
SELFFILUNC
SAFETY
GXwd'ssss/SMrs/s/ysssss//*s//s/*///sMssssswm/MMaim
Holds 50% More Ink
Onoto, the Pen, has for years been the busy
man’s pen. The ease with which it fills and
cleans itself, its readiness to write whenever
wanted, its absolute security from leakage,
and the fact that it holds 50 per cent, more
ink than any other self-filling pen has gained
for Onoto, the Pen, the first place
THOMAS HE LA RUE & CO. LTD.
110 Bunhill Row, London, E.C. 1.
ONOTO INK—Best for all Pens.
ffl
of Australasia Limited,
CAPITAL PAID UP 590
Reserve Fund Jt1, 867,135
sec/ //i //>e &usjs?es3
Tofal (2ssts?s bv 19/7 £vb.o\l, 282
. - -1927 <£, 42,909. 726
All classes of banking business conducted at
320 branches and J 63 agencies in Australia
The Bank provides a complete service to its
customers and connections. This includes
Current Accounts, Fixed Deposits, Overdrafts,
Discounts, Collections, Drafts payable in Aus-
tralia or abroad, Tiavellers’ and Merchants’
Letters of Credit, Telegraphic Transfers.
ARRANGEMENTS FOR CONDUCTINO
Foreign Banking Business
have been greatly extended and a world-wide
service is available through the Bank’s offices
in London and Agents in every important city.


h
A Better Dry Battery
the EVER-READY
The best for wireless
purposes or general
utility bells, tele-
phones, burglar alarms,
medical coils, etc.
ĥ
Agents everywhere
Write for Illustrated Catalogue
THE EVER-READ Y CO.
(Gt. Britain) Ltd.
163 Pitt Street, Sydney
£l7OO PRIZE STORY COMPETITION.
“The Bulletin” wants the Australian novel to take the place of
the American and English productions which now flood the bookshops.
A school of short-story writers has been built up in Australia
through “The Bulletin’s” efforts during more than 45 years past.
Now “The Bulletin” is going to see whether a school of novelists
cannot also be built up.
To this end it offers a minimum of £l7OO in prizes for novels
during the next three years.
The first competition will close on June 30, 1928. For this the
prizes will be: First, £500; 2nd, £125; 3rd, £75.
All persons Australian-born are eligible; also all persons bona fide
resident in Australia.
The stories are to be available for serial publication in "The
Bulletin” and “The Woman’s Mirror.” Otherwise, copyright will
belong wholly to the writer; all picture rights will likewise remain his
property.
Radiant Health
Fight that fagged out feeling,
conquer that nervous debility
with Sanatogen. Sanatogen
will strengthen your nerves and
revitalize your whole system.
sanatocen
The True Tonic-Food.
Gifts Three.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
THE woman wiped sweat-bedraggled hair
from her face with the back of a red
hand. The little tin kitchen baked. A
hot wind intermittently pelted stinging par-
ticles of sand on to sore and sweating skin.
Three unkempt children, too hot to quarrel,
sprawled in the cooler corners, and gouged
mechanically at eyes already red-rimmed and
swollen from the flies. A baby mewled fret-
fully in a bag cot. A gaunt dog slunk in,
looked wistfully around, and, meeting the
woman’s eye, slunk out again. The woman
watched it dispassionately. Another time
she would have spurred its departure; but
to-day it didn’t seem to matter. There was
a fly crawling undisturbed upon the second
youngster’s eye. Her lips opened for the
eternal reprimand and closed again sound-
lessly. That didn’t matter either. Nothing
mattered. She shuffled across to the door,
her thin, coarse dress flapping in the wind,
her bulging shoes raising tiny clouds of dust
at every step. At the door she stopped and
turned around. She must not waste time.
There were the breakfast things to wash, and
Tom had ridden the short fence this morning
—that meant he would be home for lunch.
There were a dozen things she had to do ;
there was only one she must not do —
think.
She had known when she woke that this
was going to be a bad day. And the anti-
dote for bad days was work. With a grim
smile she looked round the kitchen. Work
there was a-plenty. Yet she made no move
to do it. It didn’t matter. Nothing mat-
tered on a day like this —a day hot from
Hell, surcharged with demons of discomfort.
She turned and leant against the door-post.
Outside were red and baking plains, stark,
denuded, endless; a gaping spread of earth
naked as raw flesh. She eyed it broodingly.
In the back of her consciousness something
was stirring. Nebulous and undefined,
vaguely ominous it was, as a heaving beneath
deep waters. She groped for it; but it
evaded her. It was nothing tangible ; merely
a desolation like the scene before her. Her
eyes dropped from the distant plains, rested
with the disgust of familiarity on object
after object, all squalid, all mean, and harsh
and hideous : the scrawny, dust-dulled shrubs
with limp, bedraggled fowls panting beneath
their meagre shade ; a desultory goat pluck-
ing at a bush long since stripped to the bare
sticks; yonder the horse-yards and the ram-
shackle bough shed which housed the buggy
and dray. For the rest, tins and rubbish,
papers and ashes littered everywhere. The
little, tliree-roomed tin hut they lived in lay
behind her, a few yards away from the
kitchen’s other door. Morosely she contem-
plated each separate, wretched object. A
bitter, inarticulate loathing racked her. This
a home ! This a life !
Sharply she pulled herself together. There
was danger in this present mood of hers.
Natures less active had rebelled—had done
strange and terrible things on days like
these; aye, and without the driving power
of poignant realisation, of frustrated ambi-
tion, which she possessed.
When the hot winds blow for weeks with-
out cessation; when the air is never free
from driving sand; when everything, even
the food, is grit-encrusted, nerves stretch
beyond the normal breaking-point and sanity
sways thinly on a perilous edge. She knew
all this. And the hot winds came towards
Christmas —a bare two months away—and
ever the closing year brings an accounting,
and the weighing of progress, and the bitter
knowledge of a goal no nearer. A period
always bad in the past this, equalled in bit-
terness by only one other- —the coming of
another child; the first faint but very sure
signals of another clutching, helpless little
hand to hold them back; to bind them down.
And this—for bitter certain only on that
very morning-—hers also. She bowed her
face against the door-post and clenched her
fingers round the bark. It wasn’t fair. There
was no justice here. Nor in the visit of the
stranger yesterday—the stranger who had
sought his way and stayed to tea and talked
-—to her bidding—of the world outside;
talked wonderfully, and looked at her the
while with pity in his eyes. An ever-barred,
impenetrable portal is better than the door
which opens to allow a peep within and,
unrelenting, shuts.
A crow, startled in his gorge upon a car-
case on the plain, rose, cawing menacingly.
The woman raised her bowed head; then
straightened as she saw the rider coming.
She sighed and turned into the kitchen.
Tom home.
A few minutes later he slouched in, hung
his hat on the corner of the door and
slumped into a chair. A big outdoor man,
but now, in his wordlessness, his attitude
and his eye, infinitely weary; infinitely
depressed from six hours’ riding amongst the
strewn carcases of his fortune and his hopes;
desperately in need of encouragement and
sympathy.
After a few moments he raised his head.
Lunch was long in coming. “Not ready yet?”
he asked.
“No,” said the woman briefly. “I’ve been
loafing. Don’t feel too well.”
Something in her tone told him, or her
mind, from long intercourse, leapt to his.
His brow knotted and the look he shot at
her was distrustful, foreboding.
“Not another?”
The woman nodded, mute agony in her
eyes.
“God. . . .God !”.. .. He beat his hands
together. “That’s the end.. . .of everything!”
“No!” the woman’s voice was sharp.
“You can’t —you musn’t say it.. . .think it!”
“It’s true,” he muttered heavily. “We
can’t do it. It was bad enough before. Yet
there was a hope. Now, with five, and half
the cattle gone”.... His voice trailed off.
Then, piteously: “Couldn’t you do....have
done... .anything?? You knew what it
meant.”
“Out here?” The woman’s voice, her ges-
tures, were alike hopeless.
They lunched in silence, and he rode
away.
When he had gone the woman returned
to her position at the door. The dishes lay
neglected on the table; the youngest baby
PROVING IT OVER AND OVER.
“How do you know she’s a man-hater?”
“Because she has divorced three husbands and just married a fourth!”
drowsed fitfully in his cot. He should have
been in bed. Barely had she troubled to put
the food away. Things were very wrong
when this could happen.
The wind had increased from intermittent
gusts to a steady blast. It blew away from
where she stood, filling the kitchen behind
her with flying sand. Gone was the vehem-
ence from her eyes, the active hatred from
her face. It was set in a tragic mask of
hopelessness; quiet, stony. There was a
dangerous quietude about her —the calm of
utter defeat. It had come at last. For
years she had been dreading it, fighting it.
Yet never in the open ; never acknowledging
it as a possibility; never granting it the
honor of open battle.
At eighteen the selection, had seemed a
short cut to squatterdom and fortune, just
as big, silent Tom Mitchell had seemed the
embodiment of quiet determination and suc-
cess. So she had left her office, her city
home, and gone out with him; looking
forward to perhaps five years of mounting
comfort and prosperity, then affluence.
Seven had gone. iCattle had slumped; small
beginnings, temporary, and all-in-the-game,
had become permanent and a settled life.
No, not settled. Always ahead she had kept
her star. Cattle would rise; the drought
would break. So she fought, and kept him
fighting, too. For better or worse was the
bargain, and though it had been always
worse; though it meant endless work in
squalor; though it stole her looks, her youth,
the joy of life, yet never had she burked
the fulfilment of her share of it. And never
—until to-day—had she let it kill her hope.
She lived for it, and in it. Bad days there
were, but never hopeless ones; never one
before on which she could not fight, and
rouse her mate to fight.
Others she had seen around them, stulti-
fied, dead, the women slatterns, the children
clods, the men hulks, submerged, unaspir-
ing. These are the ones the West has
beaten. Their future will be as their present,
endless toil for the barest sustenance. And
Tom had been drifting into the ranks. He
had cause, God knows—yet no more than
she! Of late it had been harder and harder
to rouse him; to interest him in the future;
to draw from him a word of hope. She had
seen it, and denied it—and fought against it
while she so denied. But now she was
beaten. _He had given up. She had feared
it would* be so when he heard. Love and
pity for him swelled her heart. Another
child in the middle of a drought! Of a
truth it was a sorry Christmas-gift to make
him. She was a burden, too great to be
borne. He had said as much.
He loved her still, she knew. But what of
the years ahead? Would he not remember
how his hopes had died? And she? Could
her love survive when hope was gone? When
she could no longer spur him, jolt him into
bettering his lot? Suddenly she visioned
those years ahead —a hideous procession,
flat, drear, hopeless; pigging as now they
pigged, in endless labor for a pittance; Tom
sunk in the bushman’s rut, more animal than
man; herself?
She threw her hands across her mouth,
choking the scream that bubbled in her
throat. Wild-eyed, deranged by the horror
of the picture, she swayed against the door-
post. Her hair came about her shoulders;
flapped—too wet to blow—in the burning
wind. The sun glowed a sullen orange
through the dust clouds. A flock of crows
passed overhead cawing ominously.
The woman’s nerves gave way. With the
last instinct of self-respect, to conceal her
plight from the children, she reeled out
in the heat and the driving sand, and there,
against the iron walls of her prison-house,
she beat her naked hands, her head upon her
arms, dry sobs tearing her frame. She could
not face it, she told herself. She would not
tie them down to this! She would not bear
children to lead such lives! Better to die!
Better, whispered demon voices on the wind,
to die—and take them with her! Tom
could “make it” alone. They, as he had
shown her at lunch, were the impediment.
Wide-eyed, she played with the idea.
After all, was it fair to kill all their hopes,
blast all their futures? Would not the
saving of one be better than the misery of
all? Look, too, what she would save the
children! It would be so easy. Which
Christmas-gift the better —one more encum-
brance —or freedom?.... She turned and
groped her way back to the door.
* # . * *
In the township hotel, a philanthropist
whose deeds were famous nation-wide thought
of a woman in whose eyes the day before
he had read loneliness and desperation.
Could nothing be done? The wealth he gave
in every quarter—could it not help him
here? Yet he knew it could not. Love,
loyalty, all the priceless treasures of Heaven,
we may pour unstinted upon our fellow-
man ; but gold, cheapest, meanest gift within
our power, we dare not offer. Yet what bliss
to give her joy again; to take her far away
from all that was wretched ; to surround her,
for two glorious months, with every luxury
her heart desired ! He fell to planning. Surely
a Christmas-gift! Two months away, of
course, but surely.. . .
* * * *
In the courts of Heaven a messenger re-
ported to the seraph charged with the lesser
problems of the planet Earth: “There is a
woman in my section nigh unto the edge for
want of joy in living.”
The seraph shaded his eyes, looked down
and willed himself to see her. He studied
her a moment. “Give her,” he said gently,
“a fear of losing the little which she hath.”
* * * *
The woman had reached the door. She
was calmer now. Her choice of gifts was
made.
A dog barked shrilly. The woman raised
her head, dully comprehending the difference
in the note —the tocsin of danger.
A crash and clatter of galloping hooves,
and a riderless saddled horse wheeled at the
horse-paddock fence.
Throughout the next two hours the woman
moved with calm, unflurried speed. There
was the night-horse to get; then, with its
aid, the buggy-liorses; the children to feed,
undress and put to bed ; the lamp to light;
the buggy to pack. Task after task she did
scmi-consciously, yet with clear-cut thorough-
ness. And all the while at the back of her
mind an awful, numbing fear.
Of that hellish drive in the blinding sand
she remembered little. The buggy-horses,
gaunt, drought-starved wrecks, plodded—
where the tracks were good—at a shuffling
jog. More often they walked, she straining
her eyes over the side. Every gate was
open. He might be anywhere—in any state.
Yet she must crawl to rescue him!
Nightfall, and no trace. Followed a fright-
ful stillness and a desolation; a wearisome
circling underneath the stars; an endless
calling, until finally a faint cry answered.
And thus she found him, lying where the
mare had fallen, hi's broken leg a-swarm
with cruel red ants, his hat tied across his
face—lest, with consciousness forsaking him,
the crows should come!
Less did she remember the endless crawling
back. For her heart sang a psean all the
way, and when at last the little lamp blinked
friendly through the darkness the little hut
spelt home and the promise of God’s own
peace.
HENEY MOSTYN.


Melbourne’s Racing Season
There will be a steady influx of good-class people into
Melbourne from now on to the 'Cup,” many of whom
will sojourn at the “Windsor.”
It has for many years past been the resort of distinguished
Country, Interstate and Overseas visitors, and the centre of
numerous brilliant functions from time to time.
Minimum Tariff from 22/6 (Inclusive)
Room and Breakfast from 15/-.
Telegrams and Cables: “Telwinsor,” Melbourne.
Manager: B. C. Jones ’Phone Cent. 9260
Visitors to MHboume
should stay at-
JCofel MucUot
SPRING ST. MELBOURNE.
i 1) A
41
SL
!««•
0*
-4
m
TWO BANKS IN ONE
TKe General Banking Department opens current (cheque) accounts and
transacts every kind of Banking business associated with cheque accounts,
such as the accepting of fixed deposits at interest, the issue of drafts and
letters of credit; and the transaction of international business.
The Savings Bank Department provides a most efficient service for the
thrifty and for the people of smaller means, a service that includes interest-
bearing Savings accounts, the money-box and many banking facilities.
Both Departments will be found in every one of the Bank’s 87 Branches,
and in addition practically every Post Office in Australia is an agency of
the Savings Bank.
You can do business with either department, or both.
Open an account now with the
Comrawealtb Sank of Hustralia
(Guaranteed by the Commonwealth Government.)
Our Service Department
This page is set apart for the service of Bulletin readers.
If you want anything, including information, you are invited to write to the
Service Department.
_ The service is entirely free. All you have to do is to attach the coupon from the
inside back cover of last Bulletin to hand.
Readers obliging with replies need not attach coupons.
The l-iglit of selection and'rejection is reserved.
To facilitate search it is desirable that questions be asked on only one subject at
a time.
Wants.
Student, 26, in Sydney, urgently needs
week-end and/or evening employment. Can
do clerical work, including typing, or act as
salesman or chauffeur.—ls3s.
Young married man, good milker, capable,
used to horses, can work team, wants dairy-
ing on shares.—ls 42.
Elderly man, slightly crippled, active, de-
sires position caretaker, watchman, lift-
driver, messenger or place of trust; 11 years
last place. Refs. —1565.
Ex-army officer, many years’ experience
sheep and farming, excellent refs., wants
nosition station overseer or manager mixed
farm. Would consider good share-farming
proposition.—lss6.
Plantation manager, 31, lOyrs.’ experience,
seeks similar position Pacific Islands, New
Britain excluded. Desires change for health
reasons. —1575.
Widow, good gardener, daughter 19,- two
sons 17 and 15, would like work market
garden or small mixed or poultry farm on
shares.—ls 74.
Metallurgist wants position New Guinea.
Queensland or Malay States. Has had
experience in battery work, battery manage-
ment, cyanide and concentrating plants,
both gold and tin; sound knowledge
hydraulic mining, amalgamation and methods
of treating shallow and deep placer deposits.
Gold Coast, America, N.Z. and W.A. —1584.
Returned soldier wants position clerk or
storeman country store. Go anywhere; good
refs. —1583.
Returned soldier, 50, good character and
education, excellent refs., can drive car,
desires position secretary, station bookkeeper,
any place 'trust. Available end December.
—1585.
Position as attendant in Sydney garage
from about 4.30 p.m. to 11 p.m. daily.
Experienced ; good references.—ls 92.
Solicitor, extensive exp, Eng. Cos.’ Acts,
commercial law and general knowledge, not
on Aus. rolls, wishes position. Reasonable
salary to commence. A 1 credentials. —1599.
Sydney firm wants energetic partner with
about £3OOO to help extend old-established
wholesale and foreign agency business, the
money remaining in the business. Specific
knowledge of city trading not necessary.—
1580.
Partner or syndicate with capital to exploit
gold show in New Guinea. Believe it to be
as good as anything worked there yet.—
1571.
Widower with two children going to school,
Sydney suburb, requires housekeeper. Pro-
testant, 35 to 40.—1533.
To sell Australian Turf Registers.
Will exchange other years for 1911, 1912,
1923, or purchase at fair price.—1515.
Will sell or take books in exchange for
H.M.V. and Columbia gramophone records,
including complete symphonies, sonatas,
quartets, trios, etc., of modern and classical
schools. —1512.
To buy wmrks of Carl Van Vechten, Edgar
Saltus, Arthur Machen and any books of
the 1890 period.—lsl4.
Words of “The Last Retreat” printed in
tin' Triad about 1906. Reply to C. L. Ran-
dall, 35 Gipps-street, East Melbourne.
Copy of “Through Australasia with the
Renown.”—ls44.
Good vacuum carpet-cleaner, not electric.
State lowest price, Brisbane. —1546.
Words of song, “The Keel Row.” (Reply
to M. Dunn, Commercial Bank, Forbes,
N.S.W.)
Words of verse, “Whistling.” (Reply to
Miss Belle Kirk, 2 Alexandra-avenue, Gee-
long, Vic.)
To sell, Norman Lindsay’s “Pen Draw-
ings” ; good condition, £4 4s. —1566.
Copies Lone Hand (1912) containing
series of articles on Eureka Stockade, by
Nathan Spielvogel.—ls67.
Will William Falvey Anderson send
address to A.J.A., car e Snowball and Kauf-
mann, 47 Queen-street, Melbourne?—ls43.
Words of verse “Wreck of Brunkencrun-
gercrob.” (Replies to G. Wills, Chubb’s
Australian Co., 370 Flinders-street, Mel-
bourne.)
A 16.7-h.p. Napier engine for sale. Ideal
for running home electric-light plant.—ls 93.
Information Sought.
Names of hooks on lip reading and where
pro curah le ? —1576.
“Lip Reading,” by M. G. Bruhn; “Lip
Reading,” by L. J. Murgenstern; “Lip Read-
ing,” by E. B. Ritchie; and “Advanced
Lessons in Lip Reading,” by E. B. Ritchie
—all American. Unobtainable in Sydney,
but Angus and Robertson will get them.
Brief details as to advances made by
N.S.W. Government Savings Bank to home-
builders ? —1577.
The dwelling must be occupied as a home
by the borrower and his family. No advance
will be made to owners of property except
to enlarge or improve same. Maximum
advance is £750, and not more than three-
quarters of the value of the property. Plans
and specifications must be approved by bank.
Maximum periods for repayment are (a) for
brick, concrete or stone, 30 years; (b) for
wood, 20 years. Advances repayable by'
monthly instalments, which include interest
at 6 p.c. and a part repayment of principal.
(1) What is the value of an autographed
photograph of Alexandre Dumas pdre? (2)
Where in Melbourne could I have it valued?
—1579.
Practically no sale for autographed photo-
graphs in Australia. Try Decoration Co.,
350 Collins-street, Melbourne.
Who first flew from England to Australia
—the Smith brothers or Parer and Mclntosht
—1578.
Ross and Keith Smith with Sergeants Ben-
nett and Shiers left England on November
12, 1919, and arrived at Darwin on Decem-
ber 10. Parer and Mclntosh started on
January 8, 1920, and reached Darwin on
August 2.
In auction bridge, tvhen a player calls two
hearts unopposed on the second round and
is doubled, can he change his suit? —1554.
Yes, but he must call higher, e.g., two
spades or no trumps or three clubs or dia-
monds.
Who framed the Commonwealth Consti-
tution? —1562.
A convention of elected delegates repre-
senting the various States (except Queens-
land). Slight amendments were made in the
bill at a Premiers’ Conference.
What is the best method of making coal
briquettes ? —1442.
There are many processes. In Germany
they have been made on a large scale for
50 years, while in Austria, Belgium and
France, briquettes have for a long time been
made from inferior coals. Where a binder
is necessary to make the material cohere,
tar or pitch usually is employed. Some browm
coals are moulded under high pressure—as
high as 10 tons to the inch. The briquettes
made at Yallourn, Vic., are excellent. They
are made without a binder but are dear to
make and buy.
Was there a shearers' strike in N.S.W. in
1925 or 1926?—1481.
There were five cessations of work in the
N.S.W. shearing industry during 1925 and
two during 1926. The most recent recorded
strike occurred on Oct. 16, 1926.
When I enlisted I signed my life-insur-
ance policy over to my father, who agreed
to pay the premiums. He continued the pay-
ments until he died. He handed all his
securities, including my policy, to a trustee
co. for disbursement at his death. Can I
claim the policy—it matures in four years'
time —from the trustees? —1490.
If you made a formal and unconditional
assignment of your policy to your father,
and informed the insuring co, to that effect
in writing, and since that date he has been
paying premiums thereon in his own name,
your interest in the policy has lapsed and it
falls into your father’s estate. If, on the
other hand, there was no formal assignment
and he kept the premiums paid up in your
name and for and on your behalf the policy
is still yours.
A N.S.W. station-hand in receipt of basic
wage kills rabbits and sells skins to the
value of, say, £6O. Must they be entered
as additional income when applying for child
endowment? —1483.
The Family Endowment Dept, advises that
such money must be included in statement
of “family income.”
When and where was R.M.S. Australia
wrecked? —1572.
Port Phillip Heads (Vic.), June 21, 1904.
We are share-farmers. The landowner
supplies us with seed wheat and super.,
which we have to protect from the weather.
To whom do the empty hags belong? —lso3.
Having delivered the seed wheat and super-
phosphate the landowner’s duty ends; the
means of conveyance, i.e., the bags, are his
property and not annexed to the articles
supplied. How you keep these articles pro-
tected from weather rests with you.
A’.9 grazing property is mortgaged. lie
has let the grass thereon Without consulting
the mortgagees. Should they foreclose on
the land, can they legally claim the stock
of the man who has paid for the use of the
grass? —lso2.
The rights of a mortgagee in possession
are to take the rents and profits of the land.
He would be entitled to the fees for agist-
ment under the letting referred to, but he
has no claim to the stock of the man paying
for the use of the grass.
My wife and I arc going to England first-
class on an Orient liner, and would like to
know whom are we to .tip, when are the
tips generally given, and what amount is
expected of people of moderate means? —■
1551.
Tips for this service are a shade less than
for hotel and restaurant service. The latter
used to be one-tenth of the bill; it is now
very little under one-sixth. If the ocean
passenger pays one-eighth he does more than
the average. The circumstances of no two
boats or of no two trips are identical; but,
generally speaking, something like this may
be a fair division of the total: Table stew-
ard, 30 p.c.; cabin ditto, 30; bath, 7b;
boots, 5; deck, 71.; music, bar and smoke-
room, 121 between them; and there will
be 71 left for sundries. Sometimes it is
advisable to “see” the steward (generally
second) in charge of the dining-room; and
the division of the 121 p.c. mentioned above
depends upon what part of the ship one
uses most. As to the best time to pay, it
can be (often is) argued from one end of a
voyage to the other. The Service Depart-
ment's view is that the man who gets his tip
to start with has nothing more to either
fear or hope for. All the same, it is just
as well to establish a name for —well, not
meanness, as early as possible; and that can
be done by paying pretty liberally for some
service. In the early rush the deck steward
can generally do a good deal for one’s com-
fort. All these payments, by the way, are
for ordinary services, and not for special
jobs like luggage-shifting.
Can a rival company prevent me from
advertising thus: “J. Jones, Leading City
Tailor, three doors east Chileam Tailoring
Co” ? —1526.
Should the Chilean Tailoring Co. con-
sider that your advertisement was calcu-
lated to injure them by leading the public
to believe that in dealing with you they were
dealing with the C.T.C., they could apply
for an injunction restraining you from using
the words. The risk may not be great, but
why take any risk?
(1) What is the procedure for obtaining
a copyright? (2) The cost? (3) Is a
separate copyright reauired for each coun-
try? (4) Names of music publishers? —l443.
(1) Make application to Copyright Office,
Commonwealth Bank Buildings, Sydney,
and lodge copy of work. (2) Fee ss. (3)
Copyright in Australia automatically pro-
tects the applicant in the British Dominions,
but separate applications must be made in
other countries. Duration of Copyright —
50 years after author’s death. (4) W. H.
Paling and Co.. 338 George-street. Sydney;
J. Albert and Son, 137 King-street, Sydney.
(l)What is the name of a device used for
extracting bogged cars by means of an
anchoring spike, rope and pulley, power being
supplied from the rear wheels? (2) What
are the best road maps? —lsBl.
(1) A device called the “Pull-U-Out” was
stocked in Sydney some years ago, but motor-
accessories firms state that it is not now
obtainable locally. It. N. Bubb, Wentworth-
avenue, may be able to give particulars. (2)
N.R.M.A.
(1) Is there a school for bakers in Aus-
tralia? (2) How could I obtain a job as a
baker on a vessel to America? (3) How
could I study the various methods of baking
in America? —1555.
(1) There is a School of Baking at the
Technical College, Sydney. (2) Apply to
steamship companies running vessels to
America. (3) Write American Trade Com-
missioner, Pitt-street, Sydney, who will give
you information and advice.
(1) Could you supply names of publica-
tions of value to nurserymen? (2) Is a
special periodical published? —ls49.
(1) Apart from standard gardening works
designed to suit the purpose of the amateur
rather than the professional there is little
that is applicable to conditions prevailing
in this country. N.S.W. Dept, of Agricul-
ture issues some useful pamphlets on such as
grafting, budding, seed-raising and pruning.
Write to it for complete catalogue. Allen’s
“Pruning Book” (3s. 6d.) is recommended.
(2) “Seed and Nursery Trader” (monthly
(id.). Bank House, Bank-place, Melbourne.
Is there any hook or periodical that gives
information on land' investment, and the pro-
gress of different localities, etc.? —1548.
There is no periodical devoted exclusively
to such a subject. Study the real-estate
columns of the daily newspapers. Infor-
mation as to progress of different localities
can be had from most town and shire
clerks. Reimer and Tebbut’s “Agency Law”
(Law Book Co., Sydney) will be found use-
ful if full knowledge of legal side is required.
Population statistics can be had from the
Commonwealth Government Printer.
What is the cost of operation and main-
tenance of the overland telegraph line from
Adelaide to Darwin?- : —1429.
P.M.G.’s Dept, states that costs would be
difficult to ascertain. The line is one of
several carried along the route, and the
number of circuits also vary at different por-
tions of the route. Separate costs of indi-
vidual wires would be expensive to obtain
and of no particular value.. This applies,
in a lesser degree, to operating costs.
Where can I get a detail map of N.S.W.?
—1471.
Lands Dept. Price 15s. 3d. The depart-
ment also publishes for tourist purposes maps
of the north-eastern, central-northern, south-
eastern and central-sou them parts of N.S.W.
(10 miles to inch). Price, Is. 7d. flat; 2s.
2d. folded. Maps are also issued by the
various motoring organisations, and by
11. E. C. Robinson, Ltd., 221-23 George-
street, Sydney. (Catalogue posted.)
Information Supplied.
012. —A point worth knowing when
bushed in pine country is that the largest
limbs of a pine generally point northward.
To keep a straight course, sight a tree or
other object and, when it is reached, con-
tinue onward by the same plan.—G.D.IL
1383. —To get a uniformly hard surface,
the sandy patches in a tennis-court should
be shovelled away to a depth of at least a
foot. Replace with rammed antbed, or, if
that is unprocurable, with a mixture of pud-
dled clay and coarse sand or finely-sifted
gravel. For drainage, give the court a twi-
inch fall either way from the net. —W.R.
1286. —Home treatment for barber’s rash:
To half a small vaseline-jar of fresh lard
add a small teaspoonful of flowers of sul-
phur ; mix well and keep covered. Apply
after bathing with warm water and soap.—
“Homo.”
Does Anybody Know?
A device that will extract bogged cars —if
proprietary, name and cost; if home made,
details as to working? —lsBl.
Recipe for cleaning a badly-colored meer-
schaum pipe? —ls39.
Directions for obtaining a high gloss on
starched collars? —1540.
Meaning of Queensland abo. word “bab-
inda”? —1531.
A recipe for fermenting fruit-juices and
sugary liquids to make pleasant summer-
drinks with a “kick” in them? —1532.
Brief Answers.
C.A.R.: N.S.W. Dept, of Family Endow-
ment says that wages paid a member of a family in
the employment of a parent need not be included
in statements for the purpose of deciding contribu-
tions to the Family Endowment Act. Wages paid to
boys for delivering orders must be included in
returns; if such wages do not exceed £l5O per
annum no contribution is payable... .P.J.F.: N.S.W.
Dept, of Family Endowment advises that endowment
may not be paid in respect of children for whom
money is being received from the Child Welfare
Dept F.S.F.: No, not attractive, presuming that
you want to take as few risks as possible... .8.C.:
Yes ; considering the security, . offers a good return.
. ...D.R.: Gypsum is a low-price mineral. In large
quantities it can be purchased in the producing
centres in Australia at under £1 per ton and most
consumers expect it to assay about 96 p.c. calcium
sulphate. Your highest grade is 66 p.c. It might
be of interest to fertilizer manufacturers. Try them.
G.E.J.: Mick Simmons, LtJ., Haymarket, Sydney,
is sending you full information as to making tennis
court. .. .J.C.: Words of verse posted... .R.G.:
Tristan d’Acunha is a small r-roun of islands in the
South Atlantic. Area, about 12 sq. miles, popula-
tion 130. Two books have been written about it.
“An Outpost in the Atlantic,” by H. M. Rogers, and
“Three Years in Tristan d’Acunha,” by K. M. Bar-
row. Both unobtainable locally... .11. J.: N.S.W.
Dept, of Agriculture pamphlets (posted) on “Ducks
and Geese” and “Incubators” will assist y0u....
E.G.8.: Apply Western Land Board Office, Sydney.
. ...M.T.: W. Weddel and 00. (Aust.) Pty., Ltd.,
477 Collins-street, Melbourne, are Australian agents
for Sutton’s English seeds... .H.L.: Oct. 25, 1890,
fell on a Saturday... .M.S.: We doubt if they can
hold their present price... .W.W.: For a man of
small means, who may want to realise at any time,
we don’t think much of either... .Jane B.: Don’t.
M.H.: No, can’t recommend it; the work is
ill-paid and precarious... .J.E.: You must give the
speed of the engine—revs, per minute... .F.J.: Mar-
garet Anglin played Katharina and Henry Kolker
Petruchio in “The Shrew” in 1908.... (Many others
mailed.)


ART
imp
1222221
OXETu!)
flump
rfimtn
(yC^L l L L T I TI
1
rrmra
mm
TB nHi HTITn WTITITTnTTnTnTffyi n i'i ijm I'iT n VnitTi»ll in' riiTTtTrrntrm
SHOWING GRID
BEFORE PASTING
PLATE I
Exide Plates are of special lattice
construction, giving maximum
efficiency for weight and bulk.
The fine casting of the grids, their
compactness and the uniform
pasting of chemically correct
material give to them strength,
stability and durability, ensuring a
long life of trouble-free service.
AUSTRALIAN DISTRIBUTORS:
N.S.W.: GIBSON, BATTLE & CO., LTD., Hunt Street, off
Wentworth Avenue, Sydney.
Q’LAND: “EXIDE” BATTERY SERVICE (Q.), LTD.,
472-474 Queen Street, Brisbane.
S. AUS.: UNBEHAUN & JOHNSTONE, LTD., Rosina Street
Adelaide.
W. AUS.: UNBEHAUN & JOHNSTONE (W.A.), LTD.,
Radio House, 383-387 Murray Street, Perth.
VIC.: A. P. SUTHERLAND, Queen Bridge (2 Maffra Street)
South Melbourne.
NEW ZEALAND DISTRIBUTORS:
HOPE, GIBBONS, LTD., Wellington, Auckland and Christ-
church.
THE LONG'UFELBATTE RYj
sK»igr
Aeiichep


{
G
O'
SHELL
%
sp
<(
MV
H
1
HC
■\*
THB BRITISH IMPERIAL OIL COMPANY LIMITED - THROUGHOUT AUSTRALIA AND NEW ZEALAND
©
©
'"THE exacting, up -to - schedule
L running of Q. &N.T. Aerial
Services Ltd. is faithfully carried
out on Shell Motor Spirit—the
same as you get from the kerb-
side pump. Thousand after thou-
sand, the miles are covered with
mail-train regularity, and all the
time Shell is on the job supplying
the never - failing power for this
dependable Service.
The Record of
Q. A. N. T. A. S. Ltd.
Miles Flown - - 490,000
Monthly Average . 10,000
Passengers Carried - 6,000
Freight &. Mails Carried 46,525 lbs.
All accomplished faithfully and
punctually on Shell Motor Spirit
Sio
Australia*s most popular Spirit-*
The Standard of the WorltU
MUSIC....
reproduced in a way that
makes you long for more!
Long hours of uninterrupted pleasure may be yours—when you obtain your
His Master’s Voice”—because these splendid instruments reproduce all kinds
of music with flawless, natural clarity.
Their unique construction, too, makes possible a range extended by 2\ octaves
and 50% greater volume. Ask your dealer now —to-day— to demonstrate.
“His Master’s Voice”
INSTRUMENTS.
Portable Models £l2
Table Models from £l4
Cabinet Models from £33
mm
v3lrs
xtms&if
mm§
? ///
A+fi
: n r,i
JOSEPH HISLOP,
The favorite British tenor, who has taken Sydney by storm, is an exclusive
“His Master’s Voice” artist. His records include:
12-INCH RED LABEL, 10/C EACH.
D 852 Rusticana (Mascagni)—
“Addio alia niadre”
Boherne (Puccini) —“Che gelida
manina”
DB69s—Lucia di Lammermoor (Donizetti) —
“Tonibe degli avi”
“Lucia di Lammermoor (Donizetti)
—“Fra poco”
DBB22 —Ballo in Maschera (Verdi) —“Ma se
m’e Forza’’
Mignon (Thomas) —“Ah, non cre-
devi tu”
DB944—Faust (Gounod) —“Salut Demeure,”
with Violin Obb.
Werther (Massenet) —“Pourquoi me
reveiller?”
10-INCH RED LABEL, 7/6 EACH.
DA443 —Alton Water (Hume)
0 My Love’s Bonnie (arr. G. Short)
DASB8 —My Love, She’s but a Lassie (arr.
G. Short)
Corn Rigs (arr. G. Sharp)
DA749 —MacGregor’s Gathering (Lee)
Bonnie Wee Thing (Fox)
DA.7B9 —An Eriskay Love Lilt (Kennedy
Fraser)
Herding Song (arr. M. Lawson)
DABIB. —I Heard You Singing (Coates)
Nightfall at Sea (Phillips)
DABI9 —At Dawning (Cadinan)
For You Alone (Geel)
Full Catalogues of “His Master’s Voice” Instruments and Records Gladly Sent
on Request.
THE GRAMOPHONE CO. LTD.
163 Pitt Street, Sydney.
-ss-tsowises


MAN
ĥ
NEWS
ħ
‘Calcutta’
Indian Pith Helmet
Light and cool—well
ventilated—healthy-
and a real treat to
wear during the hot
siege of Summer. All
Sizes. White Drill
and White Puggaree
18/6
Tosf— tyrees
Write Desk S.B.
PIKE BROTHERS
LIMITED
In Queen Street, (-Brisbane
Don't wish for the Best —get it.
RESCH’S
LAGER, DINNER ALE,
PILSENER & STOUT.
RESCH’S BITTER ALE.
AUSTRALIA’S BEST BITTER.
Western Australian Distributors:
BURNS, PHILP & CO M LTD., PERTH AND GERALDTON.
HARVEY’S “SPECIAL” Whisky
AN OLD “SPOT” MELLOWED BY AGE.
Sole Agents: RESCH’S, LTD., Redfern, Sydney.
[4.
W. W. GREENER
GUNS
ARE SURE KILLERS
Wholesaale Representatives:
W. P. THOMPSON & CO. PTY, LTD
405 Lonsdale Street, Melbourne.
SPORTING
NOTIONS
Under the Whip
Though it rained cats and dogs in Sydney
on Saturday, only a few points fell at Rose-
hill, and many owners who would have
scratched their horses had the going been
heavy let them run. The large crowd left
the course persuaded, most of it, that it had
seen the A.J.C. Derby winner; perhaps it
saw the Epsom and Metrop. winners as well.
Winalot was certainly responsible for a fine
Derby trial in the Roseliill Guineas, for
which he was favorite at 5 to 2. On the
outside at the barrier, lie got away badly,
as also did Sion (9 to 2), Black Duchess
(8 to 1) and others, and presently he was
last. Davidson did not bustle him for a
furlong or so but, when called upon, the
chestnut colt made up his ground so fast
that at the home turn he was running
fourth behind Genuine, Padicol and Black
Duchess, who had also shown pace. With a
furlong to go he was in the lead, and when
Chromium (20 to 1) tackled him and looked
like prevailing, he spurted again and got
home by a neck. Sion, who ran his race
in snatches, just beat Statesman (6 to 1) for
third place, being 2-J lengths away from the
grey Chrysolaus gelding; the nine furlorjgs
took lmin. The son of Rossendale
will probably be favorite for the Derby before
they line up; of those who finished behind
him on Saturday Statesman may give him
most trouble, for neither Chromium nor Sion
looks the part of a staying three-year-old.
Limerick was at 5 to 2 in places for the
Hill Stakes and 9 to 4 was available always.
It was. thought that his 71b. penalty would
stop him, and more wagers were written
about Amounis (5 to 2) and Gothic (7 to
2), while Fuji San (9 to 2) and Commen-
dation (8 to 1) were not neglected, although
the others—Coin Nut, Ragazzo and Seventh
Heaven—were. Ragazzo was indulged with
the lead for a few furlongs, but it was Fuji
San who led into the straight, Gothic being
third at that- stage, Commendation fourth
and Limerick fifth. Like Windbag in his
day, Limerick can get up top speed in a
few strides, and at the distance McCarten
had him in front with the race won. Gothic,
running on pretty well but by no means like
a champion, finished two lengths away;
Amounis, who was blocked at a critical
moment and would have been second in
other circumstances, was another two lengths
astern, with Fuji San (apparently a bit
above himself) a moderate fourth. Com-
mendation again shaped poorly, but Coin Nut
was by no means disgraced. Limerick ran
tile mile in lmin. 39sec.
The bagmen have a wholesome respect for
“Skinny” Moss’s prowess as a punter, and
though 10 to 1 was laid about Vaals for
the Camellia Stakes the stable didn’t get
much of it, albeit the tall chestnut had
shown no form for nine months; 6 to 1 was
the closing quote. Killarney was favorite
at 4to 1; Aorangi and Cimon —both substan-
tially backed —were at the same price as
Vaals; Calmest was at eights and Bunkum
at tens. Calmest and Vaals made the run-
ning, lengths ahead 'of the bunch, and at
the entrance to the straight it was clear that
one or the other would succeed. Vaals
settled the mare after a short struggle, and
although Aorangi finished much the faster
the son of Valais —Galtee Queen was not
all out to win by a neck. Aorangi’s per-
formance, however, impressed the crowd
more, for he was third last with half a mile
to go. Calmest was a fair third and Boaster
(since withdrawn from the Epsom) next;
Killarney, Cimon, Triplex and Lady Con-
stance disappointed their Epsom backers, if
any.
“It’s a long time since that was done at
Roseliill,” said the wiseacres when Vaals
was brought out for the first division of the
Highweight Handicap, two hours after the
Camellia Stakes. As a matter of fact, Don
Moon did it repeatedly and thrived on it,
as witness his triumph in the Doncaster.
Moss and Fred Williams, his trainer,
reasoned that their horse, with a mere 71b.
penalty in a weaker field, was a racecourse
certainty; and so it proved. Favorite at
6 to 4, he was pulled in behind Ariedon for
a few furlongs and left the pacemaker as
soon as Jones willed. He won in a canter
from Mak Siccar and Ariedon in lmin.
2Ssec., a second slower than the Camellia
Stakes time; and he could have put up
another 71b. and won another seven-furlong
race, judging by the way he pulled up. With
Bst. 71b. in the Epsom he must have a great
chance if the going is good, now that he has
struck form. The second division of the
Highweight went to the useful Boss Poppy,
backed from fourteens to sevens, but he just
got there from Bravado (5 to 1) ; Sacedon
(5 to 1), the Melbourne three-year-old, was
a fast-finishing third.
The 20 starters for the Roseliill Cup pro-
vided a very interesting race —at least some
of them did. Pantheon, who looked much
more forward than at Warwick Farm, was
favorite at 4 to 1, some of the Vaals money
FOR THE ASHES.
PUDDIN : “Will you be avail’ble ter-morrer,
Skinny? We’re playin’ the blokes in
Riley-street fer the ashes.”
sending him to that price. Horton Gag was
solid at sixes, and there was good support
for Valamita and Beedos at eights; Bacchus
(12 to 1) was the only other horse in re-
quest. Wedding Eve and Horton Gag were
always well up, and with a furlong or so
to travel they were fighting it out. The
Newcastle horse disposed of the little mare,
but he could not withstand a challenge from
Pantheon, though he struggled on gamely ;
then Cairns brought Bacchus along with a
fast run, but Pike shook Pantheon up and
the English liors e beat the pride of Kelso’s
stable by a neck. Horton Gag was a length
and a half behind Bacchus, the 11 furlongs
being traversed in 2min. 20-Jsec. All three
are engaged in the Metropolitan, and Pan-
theon and Bacchus are now very prominent
in the betting, while Horton Gag has more
than an outside chance. In fact, with
Horton Gag, Donald and Tibbie in the
Metrop., Newcastle is well represented.
There will be racing at Hawkesbury on
Saturday—the last prior to the big meetings
at Randwick. Tote possibilities :
Highweight Handicap: Pigeon Pie or Duet,
1; Lintress, 2.
Flying Handicap: Yaals or Bunkum, 1;
Prometheus, 2.
Spring Handicap: Lucy Thrice, 1; Laird
o’ Cockpen, 2 ; Dartmoor, 3.
Three-year-old Handicap: Merry Mint or
Sacedon, 1; Holbrook Belle, 2.
Rowley Mile: Pigeon Pie or Bernesk, 1;
Octember, 2; Sir Felix, 3.
“Bouragi” : The A.J.C. having decided to
recast its list of stipendiary stewards, fol-
lowing on the resignation of chairman Jack
Higgins, the new appointments were an-
nounced at the beginning of the week. Three
stewards, with an assistant, act in the metro-
politan area and two in the Newcastle racing
district. The Newcastle pair, G. Williams
and W. L. Brecht, have been reappointed.
The new chairman in Sydney is J. McMahon,
who is no stranger to N.S.W. racing. He
was an A.J.C. steward from 1904 to 1912 ;
then he became chief steward to the Maori-
land Racing Conference, which job he has
relinquished to become Higgins’s successor.
F. W. Coombes has been reappointed. L
Frazer, the third member of the triumvirate,
hails from Grenfell (N.S.W.) and was
“stipe” to the Western District Racing
Association till a couple of years ago, when
he went to the Broken Hill Registration
Board as steward and liandicapper. A
brother is liandicapper to the Q.T.C. 11. L.
Tim’perley will assist McMahon, Coombes
and Frazer.
*'* * *
Quality was represented in the ten-fur-
longs handicap at Mentone (Vic.) on Satur-
day, for Cromwell, Naos and Valwyne—all
three expected to do well this spring—were
among the dozen starters. Backers follow-
ing the stable lead, Norman Falkiner’s uncer-
tain mare Valwyne, with Duncan on top,
was sent out favorite at threes, Cromwell
and Textile being at fives, Sun Morn at
sixes and Anan Louise at sevens. The race
was a boil-over as far as the favorites were
concerned, as Wolla Walla (12 to 1), hither-
to unknown as a middle-distance horse, went
to the front early and was never headed.
Brigadier Bob (15 to 1) looked dangerous
at the distance, but the St. Anton gelding
hung on well, and was nearly his own
length clear of E. M. Pearce’s gelding at the
finish; Textile was a neck away. Wolla
Walla had scored in a mile welter at San-
down the previous Wednesday, but his record
is only middling and he is not engaged in
the Cups. Valwyne struck trouble and never
looked like winning, but Cromwell ran a
pretty fair race and can be made a lot
better. The distance was, of course, too
short for Naos. The time was good—2min.
6fsec.
There were some well-bred ones in the
seven-furlongs handicap for three-year-olds.
Leontes and Radioscope divided favoritism
at threes and they fought out the finish,
Leontes winning by a length and a half;
Kendler (6 to 1), finishing on, w*as a head
away. Leontes is by Sea Prince from Olola’s
dam, Perdita, and is a promising fellow; he
is in the Melbourne Cup with 6st. 131 b.
Radioscope (Comedy King—Radesia) is
also a decent sort. Waranton, despite his
lOst. 61b., was sent out a 9-to-4 favorite for
the Open Handicap, but he missed the jump-
out, and Greensborough (10 to 1) was never
headed; Glorion (7 to 2) was second, and
Fortafest (6 to 1) third, the finish being
close and exciting. Waranton, who was a
long way back at one stage, ended up a close
fourth, and is sure to pick up a race soon.
The winner, who was a very smart two-year-
old, was ridden by “Tich” Wilson. Berripa
(5 to 1) tried to make one act of the Mile
Welter, but the grey gelding Bridge of Doon
(7 to 1) caught the leader at the distance
and went on to win comfortably by two
lengths, Madom (7 to 1) being a fair third.
Daniels, who rode the winner, completed a
double, as he had been successful on Leontes.
Ht * * *
“Centurion”: Jack Henry, the well-known
Melbourne sporting writer, has been
appointed judge at Flemington and Caul-
field in place of H. G. Robertson, who
recently resigned. For some time past the
new official has been judge at Williamstown,
and he has assisted Robertson at V.R.C. and
V.A.T.C. meetings. Tne versatile young man
is the compiler of Miller’s Guide.
* * * *
“Hasen”: The punter who stood near me
was telling a friend how he had come to
back Gunrunner in the Steeple about to
start. “Young Joe says if they put the
money in lie’s a cert. Jumps like a deer and
got plenty of pace. Why, a year or so ago
he won the Purse at Willygong by about a
furlong. Anyway, I took twenty pound to
one about him.” Then they started. There
was a run of little more than a furlong to
the first jump, but that gave plenty of time
for Gunrunner to be tailed off. “What’3
that last?” asked my punter. “Gunrunner!”
scoffed his friend. “Well, anyway, he jumps
line a stag,” said the faithful one. With
the jump to himself Gunrunner all but
stopped, ran it right down to the outside
wing and climbed painfully over. I heard
more scoffs and something about “just
warmin’ up” from his backer. The further
they went the further back dropped Gun-
runner, and he crawled over each jump more
clumsily than the last. Finally he ended the
dreadful exhibition by hitting and falling
heavily. But was my punter disconcerted?
He was not! “Ah!” I heard him say.
“They couldn’t ’ve got ‘set.’ ”
* * * *
“Gilpin”: Is the modern racing seat the
correct one? The answer is the solution
of a problem in pure dynamics. The seat be-
gan with Tod Sloan, who took the English
turf unawares and captured it about thirty
years ago. This he did by getting well
away at the post and, being a good judge
of pace, by staying there. This suits many
horses; and the seat suited Sloan. The
horse considered as a force in action is pro-
pelled by two back levers, the weight being
supported in progression on the forelegs
used like a pair of dividers. In order to got
the greatest propelling power and the least
resistance, the weight must be placed where
it is exactly balanced, that is, at the apex
of an isosceles triangle formed by the forelegs.
Tod Sloan attained this with a short seat, but
the army of boys who hope to win fame often
miss the object they would attain when they
haul up their leathers. Instead of pushing
themselves forward they are shoving them-
selves back. A glance at an instantaneous
photo, will show that as the body is pushed
back a perpendicular through the heaviest
part of it will not bisect an angle formed
by the forelegs. Fred Archer rode very
long—so long that he could almost put his
heels between a horse’s hind legs, and at the
same time his head nearly between its ears.
Other famous horsemen who came after him
rode in what would be thought very long
leathers to-day. There are prominent jockeys
in Australia who are so sure of their posi-
tion that they do not bow to the popular
craze. They ride long—and keep on winning.
* * * %
“Saaedi”: “Long Dog” (B. 25/8/’27)
is of opinion that the tin-hare craze will soon
die out. Monotony, he avers, is its chief
drawback. But if monotony can kill, the
monotonous way in which punters lose their
money at the ponies would have killed pony
racing long ago, yet it flourishes exceedingly.
And setting the two alleged sports against
each other, the dog racing has obvious advan-
tages on the score of fairness. There is no
profane and uncertain mannikin on the top
of the dog to be reckoned with, for one
thing. Certainly ponies aren’t likely to halt
in the middle of the field and start snarling
at each other; but then the dog isn’t a
suitable subject for the electric battery.
Putting one set of unsavory features against
another, the dog business seems to be lack-
ing in the real ripeness of putridity that is
associated with the ponies.
Footbrawl
The first Vie. League semi-final, between
Carlton and Richmond, brought some 63,000
spectators to the Melbourne Cricket Ground
on Saturday. The teams had met twice be-
fore this season, Carlton winning on both
occasions; the second game, a fortnight ago,
was exceptionally willing. This time, re-
collecting that a Carltonian had been passed
out for 12 months, both eighteens were on
their best behavior; still, there was no undue
courtesy about the play. The Tigers had the
better system, and would have won com-
fortably had their forwards been up to the
mark; as it was they got home by 6 points
—B2 to Carlton’s 76. Horry Clover, Carl-
ton’s captain, though well watched, shone
out, as also did Duncan, Vallence, Beasy
and Downs. For the Tigers, who could not
replace their injured full-back, Don, the two
McCormacks, Bentley, O’Halloran and
Jamieson did well. But it was their con-
certed play from the half-back to the half-
forward lines that, put them in the final.
(Continued on Page 41.)
BALLADE OF THE HARDLY-USED
FOOTBALLER.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“Severe punishment has been imposed on Melbourne
and Sydney footballers recently convicted of foul
play.”
Cripes, I’m chuckin’ the game fer good!
W’at’s the use o’ bein’ a sport
If, w’en you on yer ’ead is stood,
You can’t reply as a genTman ought— .
Land him a wallop, as you’ve bin taught?
’Struth, they’re crabbin’ the game, ole dear!
Ain’t it enough t’ make y’ snort?
“Toss ’im out on ’ees blinkin’ ear.”
Nar; they’ve squibbed on th’ reel ’omebrewed
Coves that c’d ’andle a slipp’ry short
Jab t’ the jaw in a forward feud,
Or put the other blokes ohter court
With, a boot t’ the ribs or a tellin’ sort
O’ butt t’ the binge that’d raise a cheer
Fr’m the lads on the ’lll, as a larst resort.
Now ’e’s out on ’ees bloomin’ ear!
Our kind’s alwiz misunderstood
By stickybeak refs, who thinks they’ve
caught
One uv us lookin’ fer brains an’ blood
Or other matters uv no import,
’Cause ’ees tacklin’ is, maybe, fraught
With bash, an’ bitin’ a nose ’at’s near.
Then y’r evidence goes fer nought;
Out you ’astes on y’r bleedin’ ear..
Envoy.
Cobbers, though trouble I’ve always bought,
Past it ’itherto I could steer;
Now, you see to w’at case I’m brought:
Landed fair on me crimson ear.
N.s.w.
J. B. H.


v'7
«
£
tv
fa*
rrsp
K 0
nil
££&
fe
This Way to Europe for Speed
and Comfort
'"J'' HE Canadian Pacific route to Europe offers you a
journey of enjoyment, and comfort. Steamers across
the romantic Pacific—speedy, luxurious, steel trains across
Canada—open-top observation cars through the famous
Rockies. Palatial hotels in all cities and mountains resorts.
East Atlantic liners to England.
The C.P.R. route also places you within easy reach of
New York and other American cities. Throughout this
trip you are assured of the courtesy, personal attention
and travel service that has made the Canadian Pacific
"All Reel” route world famous.
[-earn more of the Canadian Pacific Railway by writing for free
illustrated literature and full particulars to any office of the
Union S.S. Co. of N.Z., any Tourist Booking Agency or J.
Sclater, Traffic Manager for Australia and New Zealand, CANADIAN
PACIFIC RAILWAY COMPANY, Union House, 247 George Street,
Sydney.
Canadian
Pacific.
IT SPANS THE. WORLD
A. SAUNDERS’
Specially Selected Diamonds
High-Grade Lever Wrist Watches
A. Saunders’ Dia-
mond, Oct agon-
shaped, Platinum-
set, 18ct. Gold
Ring, £5.
A. Saunders’ Three-
Diamonds, Octagon-
shaped Platinum-
set, XBct. Gold
Ring, £7/10/-
A. Saunders’ Dia-
monds, Octagon-
shaped, Platinum-
set, 18ct. Gold
Ring, £2O.
A. Saunders’ Four-
diamonds, Octagon-
shaped. Platinnm-
set, 18ct. Gold
Ring, £2O.
12
s?
o
•gOSBS*
A. Saunders’ Lady’s 9ct. Gold Jewelled lever
Watch, Silk Wristband, £5/10/-
With Gold Expanding Bracelet, £6/10/-
CSw»
*8
A. Saunders’ Lady’s 9et. Gold Jo,veiled lever
Watch, Silk Wristband, £5.
Extra Jewelled, £5/10/-
GNtQ
A. Saurulers* Lady's Dot. Gold Jewelled lever
Watch, Silk Wristband, £7/10/-
With Gold Expanding Bracelet, £B/10/-
13
sB
w
(Q
A. Saunders’ Lady’s Pet. Gold Jewelled lever
Watch, Silk Wristband, £6/10/-
Witii Gold Expanding Bracelet, £7/10/-
A. Saunders’ Three-
diamonds, Hexagon-
shaped, Platinum-
set, 18et. Gold
Ring, £lO.
A. Saunders’ Dia-
monds, Octagon-
shaped, Platinum-
set, 1 Set. Gold
Ring', £l5.
A. Saunders’ Two-
diamonds, Octagon-
shaped, Platinum-
set, 18ct. Gold
Ring, £l5.
A. Saunders’ Five-
d iamonds, Octagon-
shaped, Platinum-
set, 18et. Gold
Ring, £2O.
SENT PER REGISTERED POST FREE : : WRITE FOR CATALOGUE.
A. SAUNDERS,
Watchmaker —Jeweller —Optician,
805-813 GEORGE STREET (opposite Railway Station), SYDNEY.
Portable Crushing and Screening Plants
FOR ROADMAKING
ALL AUSTRALIAN-MADE
E
\
A “Ruwolt” Portable Crushing, Screening and Storage Plant—Capacity 100 tons per day.
We manufacture all classes of spare parts for Stone Crushers for all makes of machines,
including Hadfields, Jaques, Champion, Blake Marsden, Robey, Hope, Fraser and Chalmers,
Bigelow, Baxter, etc.
MANGANESE STEEL JAW FACES A SPECIALTY.
SEND YOUR INQUIRIES TO:—
CHAS. RUWOLT PTY. LTD.
VICTORIA STREET, RICHMOND, VICTORIA.
TELEPHONES: J 2161 (3 lines)
TELEGRAMS AND CABLES: RUWOLT. MELBOURNE.


Usher’s Hotel Ltd
Castlereagh Street, Sydney.
A first-class new and up-to-date
modern hotel.
Running hot and cold water in all bed-
rooms. and many have Bath de Luxe.
Automatic bedside telephones.
English and Trench Cuisine.
New Marble Bar, spacious and airy.
For perfection of service, comfort
and cleanliness, Usher’s Ltd. is un-
equalled.
Inclusive Terms, apply
MANAGER.
Capital
Paid-up
£! t njOO.
THE
HOTEL
OF THE
COMMONWEALTH,
SYDNEY.
Ti’e/lustralia
NOW OPEN:
“THE AUSTRALIA HOTEL”
Bottle Department,
ROWE STREET.
All best brands of Liquors,
guaranteed true to name and
label, at standard city
V prices.
UUJI
ss
aUTTtUIL
II ll ll iL LL l LILLI
ILILIUL LL lILILIU
LLILULLCILLILI,
LAJLU.IL HULL ill
LILLI ULL IUILIL LI j
uni'iTrr
SYDNEY.
The Finest Restaurant and Dance
Re (le/.vous in Australasia.
PATRONAGE CONTINUALLY INCREASING.
Capacity: Dining and Supper Dances up to 1000.
For Wedding Receptions, Banquets, Dining and
Supper Dances, inquiries to Manager.
Mon., Tues., Wed., Fri., Special Dining, 7.30,
12/6. Suppers 10 p.m., 7/6. Value and satis-
faction without equal. No charge for three
hours’ dancing on satin-smooth spring floors—-
a new thrill of real delight.
Thurs. and Sat. Late Gala Nights. Continental
Dinner from 7.30, 21/-. Suppers, 10 p.m., 12/6.
This evening in London costs £2/2/- upwards.
PEERLESS ORCHESTRA OF TEN.
Bewitching Cabaret, afternoons and evenings.
Delightful Afternoon Teas. 3.30 to 5.30, 5/-
Parties of 6 upwards, 4/6; 12 upwards, 4/-
Two hours’ entertainment of sheer delight.
Order Wines Before 6 p.m. Ring M. 5666.
South Sydney won the Sydney Rugby
League premiership for the seventh time on
Saturday; it defeated St. George by 20
points to 11 —four tries and four goals to
three tries and a goal. Vile weather
wrecked the League’s hopes of a record gate
for the season, but some 12,000 enthusiasts
attended to say good-bye. The conditions
favored the Saints, who made their best show-
ing against the premiers to date. They sub-
stituted football for more vehement methods,
and were well supplied with the ball from
the scrums, though this only served to show
up their poverty in the back division.
While Frank Burge has built up a splendid
forward side, he has failed to get his backs
together, and they have been the weak-
ness of the team all the season. The
premiers, on the other hand, showed perfect
co-ordination throughout, and in spite of
the slippery ground and the greasy ball made
few errors, while always keeping a bit in
resei-ve. They had 13 to G at half-time, and
increased their lead to safety-point in the
second spell without running undue risks.
Kadwell again made a good impression at
full-back, and if he can improve with experi-
ence he should gain inter-State honors next
year. Harris, playing his last game before
leaving for England, was in fine brickie
in the centre, and Wearing and Finch, on the
wings, gave of their best. Finch’s resolute
running being a feature of his play. Blair,
at five-eighth, had one of his best days, and
notched a couple more goals to complete his
season’s tally of 43. O’Connor, at half, is a
vastly improved scrum worker, while the
forwards, with Carr and Treweeke mixing
it with the strenuous St. George pack, com-
pleted one of the best all-round teams which
Sydney League football has yet produced.
St. George did well to jump from a posi-
tion at the foot of the ladder to the final
match in one season; it was the side’s
first appearance in the deciding game. With
a very fine pack of forwards, superbly
coached, the team overdid the spoiling game
and relied too much on the vanguard to
beat the other side. More attention to
developing the back division would have
paid, for the Saints have two good wingers
in Brain and Saunders, and the makings of
a good inside-back in L. Guest. Moreover,
they have been well served at ftill-back by
Meighan, and the youthful McCormack proved;
a capable substitute in the last match. So
far they have been unable to find a good
scrum-half; half a dozen were tried in the
key position without success. But, all things
considered, the club has good reason to be
satisfied with its achievement, and Burge
earned the £2OO he received.
« t- * *
“T’ Boggart”: The row over paying
Olympic athletes for “broken time” is full
of reminiscence to anyone who knew the
North of England—Lancashire and York-
“TAKING THINGS EASY.”
dure, to be qu’te correct —in the early
18fl0’s. The millhands and other opera-
tives in the great manufacturing towns were
then, as now, keen on Soccer and Rugby
Union. But most employers “docked” players
the time they took off. It didn’t matter in
the Soccer code, where payment was legal,
but the Rugby Union was another pair of
sleeves. I knew a big firm which docked
Valentine, a Lancashire threequarter of
those days, of a Saturday morning’s wages,
which he “forfeited” by travelling to Birken-
head to play for England against Ireland.
The Rugby Union was asked to consent to
payment for broken time. With character-
istic pigheadedness it refused. The result
was the formation of the Northern Union,
which has become a highly-organised pro-
fessional business in Lancashire and York-
shire. although in other parts of England it
lias made no headway. In Australia, where
it is known as the Rugby League, it has
wiped out amateur football in one old-time
stronghold, Queensland, and has seriously
threatened the existence of the same game in
N.S.W. . *
* * * *
The Waratalis made a fine beginning in
England on Saturday, when they beat com-
bined Devon and Cornwall by 30 points to 3
—6 tries, .3 goals and 2 penalty-goals to a
penalty-goal. Lawton, at five-eighth, was the
star of the side, but every man was at his
top, and the combination between backs and
forwards in the finishing stages was a reve-
lation to the onlookers. There are tougher
teams ahead, of course, beginning with New-
port, a star Welsh combination. On Satur-
day two combined Welsh clubs, Neath and
Aberavon will be encountered, and then will
come the club which first upset the applecart
of the Wallabies—Llanelly. The early in-
vasion of Wales was a tough task to set the
tourists, but their good start against a strong
side is reassuring, especially in view of the
home side’s failure to cross their line.
* * * *
The N.S.W. Soccer finals, which generally
run well into the cricket season, are drawing
nearer to closing-time. The Gardiner Cup
match for the State premiership is set down
for Saturday next, when Gladesville-Ryde and
Granville will debate the question. Win or
lose, Gladesville-Ryde will have to meet Bal-
gownie for the Metropolitan Association’s
premiership ; on Saturday it beat Woonona,
a goal to nil.
M.Q. (and Rafferty) Rules
“If ever I won a fight I won that one,”,
said Frank Ix>cke, ex-welter champion of
Queensland, as he squeezed through the
departing throng at the Sydney Stadium on
Saturday night; and Locke was right. He
had well and truly outpointed a sturdy and
courageous Wagga lad, Gil McGrath, in a
fast and fierce 15-rounder; but McGrath
got the verdict. It was a “mixed pro-
gramme” at popular prices, Billy Harms
having disappointed the management by con-
tracting ’flu. The big crowd roared
encouragement to Rod Williams (9st. 31b.)
when he set out to annihilate plucky little
Joe Kelso (Bst. 121 b.), but the bell saved
Rod in the third, and Joe finished him in the
first 15 seconds of the fourth. Jack Gray
(9st. 81b.) disposed of Fred Williams (9st.
101 b.) in half a two-minute round with a
peach of a punch on the mark. Charlie
Samuels, a little abo. “fedder,” appeared with
a plastered peeper and disappeared a gory
wreck when Bob Delaney (Bst. 41b.) had
done belting him, in the fourth round. The
bell had saved Black Brother in the third.
$ * * *
Billy Grime has been beaten at New York
by “Honeyboy” Finnegan, who claims the
TJ.S. featherweight championship. Finnegan
weighed in at 9st. 31b. (Grime was 21b.
lighter) and is probably no more a feather-
weight than “Cyclone” Thompson was a
lightweight. Accord-
ing to most ac-
counts, he out-
classed our man
and won nine of
the ten rounds
fought; but another
report has it that
Billy shaped well
and landed the two
best punches of the
contest (it was
limited to 10
rounds) in the last
three minutes.
Grime himself says
he was slow
which is signifi-
cant. Clearly the
lad has done too
little fighting and
too much sight-
seeing in America.
* *
“Tom Crib b” :
The eyes of the
sporting world are
turned again to
America, where
Messrs. Tunney and
Dempsey are pre-
paring for their second war. The usual con-
flicting communiques are coming from the
battlefront. Tunney is said to have perfected
a new variety of right-cross which has Luden-
dorff’s famous break-through in 1918 looking
like a kick from a canary. Dempsey is
understood to be sitting at his maps and
graphs and working out a scheme to hurl the
offensive back in ruin. Meanwhile the listen-
ing earth is holding its breath.
* * * *
When Sam Clapliam, looking well above
his announced poundage of 12st. 81b.,
stepped on the mat with Walter Miller
(12st. 21b.) at Melbourne Stadium, he heard
the startling odds of 5 to 1 called against
him. But there were not many takers;
Melbourne, though still a bit mad about
Avrestling as a spectacle, is not so mad as
to bet on it to any extent now. For a time
the speedier Miller made Sam look like a
cable-tram in action, but in the second round
the “ex-champion” banned Walter on the
mat, and a futile resistance ended in a
fall for Yorkshire. Coming up for the third
a fall to the bad, Walter was still odds-on.
He rewarded those who reposed so much
confidence in him by making a show of the
husky Briton, amidst a running fire of sar-
castic comment from the crowd. In the
sixth spasm Wally secured a step-over arm-
bar that had Sammy tapping frantically.
During the interval the representative of
John Bull decided that the tortured member
would not stand the strain of further combat,
and the match went to Miller.
Racquet and Bawl
“Let” : Lacoste proved that his Davis Cup
victories were no flukes by beating Tilden
in the final of the U.S. national singles at
Forest Hills. He had first to dispose of
Johnston in the
semi-final, and did
this by ’three sets
to one, scoring 20
games to 13.
Against Tilden he
pursued his pet
tactics of letting
the other chap
knock himself out.
The scores were
11-9, 6-3, 11-9—an
indication of how
the veteran fought
to the last.
* *
“Smash”: After
his defeat in the
American national
singles, Johnston
announced his in-
tention of throw-
ing in his racquet,
as far as future
Davis Cups are
concerned. The
Californian c a n
safely retire on his
laurels, for he was
a member of the
team which lifted
the Cup from
Brookes and Pat-
terson at Auckland
in 1920, and helped
to hold it for
America in subse-
quent years, till France took it over recently.
Born in 1894, lie- won the championship ot
his country in 1915 and again in 1919; and
he was successful at Wimbledon in 19-°-
Anderson defeated him in the Davis Gup
contest that year—J.O.’s most memorable
achievement.
* * * *
“Top Spin”: J. O. Anderson, who was
recently declared “black” by the North
Queensland strikers, evidently brought some
of the curse back with him when h e came
south again. Playing against R. O. Cum-
mings at Toowoomba, J.O. went down in
two out of three sets, failing to take a game
in the third. This is his second defeat since
he crossed the border, which suggests that
he is getting too much tennis or that the
fate of Tilden is overtaking him. Still,
lawn-tennis form, in these days of exhibition
games, is as in-and-out as that of golt,
and that is calculated to give a racing
“■stipe” the jim-jams.
jjc % Hs
“Baseline” : As might have been expected,
the first intimation that a French team is to
visit Australia in the approaching lawn-
tennis season came from overseas, the Aus-
tralian authorities being as communicative
on the subject as a clam. M. Gillou, man-
ager of the French Davis Cuppers, announced
that Brugnon, Borotra and Cochet had
arranged to come on to the Commonwealth
after a tour of South America, beginning in
October, and South Africa. That itinerary
will hardly fit in with the Australian authori-
ties’ idea of holding the national champion-
ships in January, with the Frenchmen as the
star attractions. However, a postponement
may be possible, if the heads can only make
up their minds in time, and matters arranged
to fit in with the French visit. The par-
ticipation of these players in the champion-
ships would be much more interesting, and
draw far larger gates, than mere exhibition
matches with local cracks. Paris papers
report that the team has been offered £lOOO
a day or half the proceeds of the tour. There
must be a misunderstanding, for the Gauls
could not accept such terms and remain
amateurs, as even our easy-going controllers
of the game will understand. In any case ,a
team of tennis-playing seraphim would have
their work cut out drawing offertories that
would admit of the payment of £lOOO a day.
The Nineteenth Hole
“Hotham” : The Australian golf champion-
ships came to a close at Sandringham (lie.)
last week, when Mona McLeod won the
women’s title for the third time since the
war. Her three rounds were 82, 80 and 87;
the aggregate was eight strokes worse than
her total at Adelaide last year, but it suf-
ficed. Miss McLeod was helped to victory
by lier ability to get length from the tee-
the first step in winning championships
nowadays.
* * * *
“Divot Digger”: The Australian Golf
Union, which is not affiliated with the Trades
Hall, met in Melbourne recently and de-
cided that the next Australian champion-
ships shall be held at Rose Bay, Sydney, on
a date to be fixed. Everyone up to a handi-
cap of minus 2 will be eligible to enter for
the qualifying rounds of the “open.” It may
be suggested that some preliminary instruc-
tion be given on the rules of golf. Recent
events indicate that not only players but
rules committees dunno where they are.
* * * *
“E.K.” : The Hillside course at Woodend
has for many years had attractions for Vic.
THE RULING PASSION.
“What a wonderful vista!!”
“Yes, it looks all right, dear. But you can never trust those
foreign cars!”
golfers. Entry forms for the annual meeting
are now available, and leading Vic. amateur
and professional players intend making the
trip to the mountain, where fairways will be
scarred with their woods and irons; there is
to be an open championship again this year.
On one memorable occasion Walter Baldwin
won the open championship after scoring an
ace at the sixth hole. It was a day of tierce
heat, so the celebration at the nineteenth hole
was thrice memorable. A repetition of Bald-
win’s feat was demanded, and soon it was
announced that Charlie Smith had holed a
one at the blind fourth. But suspicion has
always pointed an accusing finger at Bill
Nankivell.
* * * *
“Iconoclast”: Appalling are the expedients
to which people will resort in order to
obtain proficiency in golf. The other day
I called on my friend Rattaye—with the
accent on the “Rat” —to find him blasphem-
ously endeavoring to strike a golf-ball which
reposed on his front lawn. Both his arms
above the elbow were handcuffed together by
straps and webbing, an apparatus which
obviously impeded him, as a strait-jacket
impedes other varieties of maniacal expres-
sion. He at first refused my offer to release
him, using most regrettable language, but
at last, in sheer exhaustion, was compelled to
permit it. Then he explained that this medi-
aeval instrument of torture had been invented
by some great authority to compel the co-
ordination of the arms when making a
stroke, the idea being based on the “hopples”
in trotting. I left wondering at the species
of intoxication which tempts a man to
attire himself like a horse —-and a trotting
horse at that—in order to “perfect” (which
means slightly improve) what he is pleased
to call his “game.” Looking back, I saw
Mrs. Rattaye helping her spouse into his
harness again, and he repeated his painful
imitation of a pacer at the Red Hots.
* * * *
“The Lie”: California has evolved a
Chinese professional golfer named Charley
Chung. If he is like any more of the Ameri-
can professionals we.read about, Charley pro-
bably finds it more profitable to become a
golfer than a general, as so many of his hard-
up countrymen have done to earn a crust in
these times. No particulars are given of his
game, but it is stated that lie plays off a
plus mark. How he manages when in the
rough or badly bunkered is not stated, but one
can imagine him letting off a packet of
crackers to his portable joss to get him out
of a bad lie, and slamming the deity with his
cleek if it fails, allee same foleign devil.
(Continued on page J/1. )


tynzn/tf
11%)
LIQUEUR
/n.
The Whisky for Connoisseurs
GRANTS
LIQUEUR
SCOTCH WHISKY
Beautifully Soft, Clean and Mellow
Shipped by
WM. GRANT & SONS, LTD., GLASGOW.
The leading Independent firm of Scotch Whisky Distillers.
r
• VX
\ /
\ ;
'■ &a v,..
X
AUSTRALIAN AGENTS: R. TOWNS & CO., SYDNEY.
“En Avant”: Richard Benoist, the great
French driver, has finished up an exception-
ally successful year by winning the Spanish
Grand Prix at San Sebastian. Driving a
Delage, he covered the 430 miles in shr.
20min. 45sec., averaging 80.5 m.p.h. Even
then he had to stop and change spark plugs,
while his chief rival, Matterassi, a Bugatti
driver, passed him. However, Providence
ordained that Matterassi should skid and
suffer an unholy smash, thus enabling the
Frenchman, to come home on the bit.
* * * *
“Trembler”: The Autocycle Union of
N.S.W. is to hold its first four-hours relia-
bility trial on September 25. The course
is from the Sydney G.P.O. to Parramatta,
and back again through Baulkham Hills to
the starting place—a run of about 110 miles.
Classes for solos will be for those under 250,
350, 600 c.c., and over 600 c.c. Sidecars
will be classed under and over 600 c.c.
Speed averages range from 18 to 27 m.p.h.
for solos, and from 18 to 26 m.p.h. for side-
cars. Each competitor will receive 100 points,
from which penalties will be deducted, and
side-car passengers will not be allowed to
relieve drivers.
if * *
The Goulburn-Sydney road race, one of
Australia’s most important cycling handi-
caps, was run on Saturday, and though the
conditions were by no means favorable new
records were put up in both the professional
and amateur sections. The first man home
among the pros, was 43-year-old P. J. Ilird,
who first contested the event 24 years ago.
He started off the limit of 70 minutes, and
covered the 129 miles in 6hr. 44min. The
old ’un, who hails from Sydney’s Western
Suburbs club, was followed at the finish by
D. J. Anderson, of Victoria, and R. Comp-
ton, of Go'sford (N.S.W.). Victorian Percy
Osborne had fastest time, with the fine
figures of shr. 56min. 40 l-ssec. off scratch
—never before had the distance been trav-
ersed under 6 hours. Among the amateurs,
“Fatty” Lamb, the Victorian crack, narrowly
missed the same distinction, getting home in
Ohr. Omin. 44 2-ssec. The winner was A.
Shaw, of the St. George club, who had 52
minutes’ start; his actual riding-time was
Ohr. 33min. 39 l-ssec. Both Osborne and
Lamb went on to complete the old course in
order to lower the previous best times for
the 131 miles. Both were successful, Lamb,
with Ohr. 7min., reducing E. W. Pedersen’s
record by 174 minutes, while Osborne cut
Don Kirkham’s figures. Ohr. 19min. 31sec„
by 16min. 41sec. Lamb’s performance stamps
him as the only possible representative for
Australia at Amsterdam next year.
Miscellaneous
“Tenth Slip”: If the cricket conference
in Sydney failed in some particulars, it de-
serves the prayers of the congregation for
its decision to set a time limit to Sheffield
Shield matches. These are to be confined to
four days, with an extension of two hours
on the fifth day if finality is not reached by
“stuirups” on the fourth. And the competi-
tion will be decided on points—four for an
outright win, three for a win on the first
knock and tv r o for a draw. A side beaten
on the first innings will be given a point. A
public bored stiff with the marathon tactics
of recent years will welcome the change. But
the covering of wickets is still to be left to
the discretion of individual States, and the
follow-on is not to be compulsory, as it used
to be when cricket was a much brighter
game.
* ❖ ❖ ❖
“State Fright”: One of the Test matches
against the next English team is to be taken
from Sydney and given to Brisbane, which
has never had one. Melbourne keeps its two
Tests for the time being; of course, it will
lose one to Sydney when the succeeding team
comes out. Nevertheless, there have been
screams of rage from parish-minded people
in the Ma State capital, and it has even
been suggested that Adelaide should be
deprived of its one match in Sydney’s
interest. With the admission of Queensland
to the Sheffield Shield competition that
State had claims which could not be passed
over; and the Board of Control has done the
right thing. The allocation of one of the
Tests to the northern State will definitely
clinch the game’s hold on a public which for
years has been asking for cricket bread and
has been fobbed off with a brick imitation.
* * * if
“Aigburth”: The English cricket season
came to a tame ending at Kenningtou Oval
last week, when the game between Lanca-
shire, the champion county, and the Rest
of England had to be drawn because of rain.
The county scored 290 and the Rest 87 for
one. The unfortunate feature of the forced
draw was that it robbed young Hammond
of his onportunity to complete his 3000 runs
for the season, a feat that only eight others
have accomplished. The Gloucestershire man
was 53 n.o. when the frame was drawn, and
needed only 31 runs to reach the third thou-
sand. Still, with 2969, he had by far the
highest aggregate for the season; his aver-
age was 69.04 —fifth on the list.
*.'***
“Bramall Lane” : Lord Hawke, himself a
mighty hitter in his heyday, had an affable
farewell ready for the Maoriland cricketers
after their final match at Scarborough, which
lies within his ancient cricket domain of
Yorkshire. His Ludship pointed out that
the strong English XI had taken all one
afternoon to make 100, while the visitors
rattled up 394 for five wickets in the same
time. It is to be hoped that the Maori-
landers won’t repeat these reprehensible
practices when they come to Australia; if
they do, a lot of our Melbourne and Sydney
C.G. habitues will develop shellshock or
something. Though handicapped by an ex-
ceptionally bad season the tourists wound
up with a creditable record, and Blunt would
be an asset to any Australian side.
if * * *
“0.Q.” : Tom Ilooton, the English expert,
whose presence in Melbourne moved local
dog fanciers to stage a special show, made
some pertinent remarks about the imported
Alsatian. He said the breed was deteriorat-
ing in the Cold Land, where its fondness for
biting had earned it unpopularity. The
specimens he had seen in Australia were a
scrubby lot. This will be unpleasant read-
ing for owners of the handsome but wolfish-
looking creature. I know one man who paid
£l5O for his and later refused £2OO.
if t- f *
“Mark VII.”: The perfection of the
modern service rifle was strongly emphasised
at this year’s meeting of the National Rifle
Association at Bisley—so strongly that a
reduction in the size of the bull's-eye was
promised for the next annual. The number
of contestants scoring possibles was without
precedent. A performance by F. L. Mason,
of the 10th Hussars, in a club competition at
Bisley has stressed the necessity for a
change. Mason put up a world’s record with
21 consecutive bull’s-eyes at 200, 500 and
600 yards. He then went on to notch
another possible at 900 yards—2B consecu-
tive bull’s-eyes. And his winning score of
105 at thd first three ranges was followed
home by a 104, 12 102’s, 12 101’s and 20
100’s! Time was when a British cavalry-
man’s shooting was ranked with an infantry-
adjutant’s horsemanship, but that all seems
to have changed.
-K ■-!* # =:■=
“Flatiron” : Something new has burst upon
Sydney motor-yachting: a hydroplane fitted
with an “outboard” engine of the type so
familiar in small rowing-boats. It has been
introduced from America, where the pitchers
come from, by Stuart Doyle, who made his
money in pitchers, and has quite upset all
local theories as to the capacity of this type
of engine. The hull is of the hydroplane
type, and the 84-h.p. engine is fitted in the
usual manner. This has no visible effect on
speed or on ’planing qualities, while no special
fitting or strengthening is needed for the hull,
as is the case where the inboard type of
engine is used. Motor, rudder and propeller
combined weigh only 1101 b., and the whole
W. S. NANKIVELL, the young Victorian
barrister who won the amateur golf
championship of Australia, though a
comparative novice at the game.
gadget can be quickly removed and carted off
in a motor-car for repairs or overhauling.
Petrol consumption is light, and the reduction
in hull costs is estimated at 50 per cent.—an
inboard engine hull will cost anything up to
£BO. As the owner has sportingly offered
to let any member of trie Motor-yacht Club
inspect aiid copy the hull, the new craft will
probably have a batch of rivals on the Harbor
before the season is out.
* * * *
“Stretcher” : The coming rowing season in
Sydney promises to be a bright one, whatever
may be said for the game elsewhere in N.S.W.
A new club has been formed at Ryde. It is
probable that a dozen official regattas will be
held, all carrying competition points; one of
these will be conducted by the Rowing Asso-
ciation itself, and will include one or more
of the State championship events. With all
this activity in the metropolis, it is sur-
prising that the Rowing Association is unable
to boast of a single country club, though the
State contains some of the finest rowing
courses in the world—courses which have
produced a galaxy of sculling talent. The
material is there, all right, as it is in Vic-
C. W. CROPPER, secretary of the A.J.C.,
who is returning from a holiday in
Europe.
toria, South Australia, Queensland and Tas-
mania, but the old dieliards in control of
N.S.W. rowing are content to let it stop
there.
:!: * :!: *
“Ride Off” : Th e international polo match
for the Westchester Cup resulted in America
beating the Indian Army team, which repre-
sented Britain. Scores in the first game
were 13 goals to 3; in the second, 8 to 5.
Britain has not won the trophy, which was
first played for in 1886, since 1914. The
match is always played on the cup-holders’
ground, which gives the home side a great
advantage, since' the visiting ponies have
to face the sea voyage, and then acclimati-
sation. Australia had some share in the
victory and the defeat. Both sides numbered
Australian ponies among their mounts.
if if *
“Vasa”: Paavo Nurmi has refused to join
the Finnish athletic team which is to compete
against Sweden because the latter’s repre-
sentatives would include Eklof, who recently
broke one of Nurmi’s records, and with whom
the Finn has therefore quarrelled. Time
was when this sort of thing was confined to
the recognised arts, including that of self-
defence. Now the spirit of jealous rivalry,
as opposed to the old ideal of sportsmanlike
competition, seems to have gained the ascend-
ancy. The day is coming when Stousher
Mulligan will refuse to play under a referee
who once sent him off the football-field, and
when Bertie Buggins will stand down from
a Test match Decause some cow who clean-
bowled him in the last game has been in-
cluded in the opposition.
* * *
“Billy the Goose”: I’m wonderin’ some-
times if the perfession ain’t goin’ t’ the pack.
Th’ funny capers ’ad a cable about some o’
the boys w’at took an Aussie bloke down in
Englan’ by pullin’ ’im into a deal in Eye-
talian exchange—somethin’ like givin’ a mug
gold fer notes, or promisin’ t’, which comes
t’ the same thing excep’ fcr the mug. These
coves got ’im t’ ’and over ’ees wad on the
usyual lurk: they was goin’ t’ use their
bronzo an’ ’is in takin’ someone else down.
But instead o’ goin’ to it in a way the ethics
o’ the perfession demands —by puttin’ the
dough on a moral fer th’ Flyin’, or buyin’ a
gol’mine from a dyin’ prospector, or inspir-
in’ confidence in a rich uncle fr’m Fiji, f’r
instance —they tells ’im they’re goin’ t’ work
the oracle by buyin’ Eyetalian liars cheap
an’ sellin’ ’em dear. They goes away with
the money, an’ blime! w’at does they do?
W’y, comes back an’ tells ’im they done it in
on a cotton spec on the stock exchange. No
wonder the mug got ’em pinched. Good
enough fer ’em! Coves that ’d come back to
a stung mug is a disgrace t’ the perfession.
I’m puttin’ in a report on the matter t’ the
local branch o’ the Amalgamated Guns’ Ser-
ciety, an’ if them futile cows is on the
English rolls they’ll be struck orf, quick an’
lively.
Business, Robbery, etc.
“R. Mart”: As far as thrift is concerned,
Vic. is bringing up her children in the way
they should go. Last year 1829 Government
schools ran savings banks. There were
122,689 depositors, who had to their credit
the handsome sum of £181,984.
* * * *
“Jack Point”: I bought for a penny in
a Brisbane shop a 96-page illustrated "book
on dogs. On taking home my prize and
examining it more closely I found that I
had paid the publishers’ price for it —it
was published in 1896 by Ward, Lock and
Co. at one brown.
* * * *
“It. Mort” : Two more British firms have
decided that manufacture in Australia is
the best plan. J. B. Lewis and Sons are
making underwear in Melbourne, and I. and
It. Morley have selected a site in Ballarat
for a hosiery factory. This cursed Protection
again!
* * * *
“Carisbrook, .1 un.”: As a result of the
embargo on imports, the peanut production
at Kingaroy (Q.) this year touched 401>D
tons. Of this 3000 tons will be sold to con-
sumers at per lb.; the rest will go to
manufacturers at world parity, 3.8 d. per lb.
Growers at Cooktown nroduced only 40 tons,
but under arrangement they may now go
up to 400 tons for the market north of
Rockhampton.
* * * *
“Flip”: The New Guinea goldfields have
lost most of their inaccessibility and their
terror with the advent of the aeroplane. A
service from the coast started by one of the
mining companies to supply its own needs
was so successful that a private carrying
service was instituted, Ray Parer, who flew
from England to Australia with Mclntosh,
being in charge. The original service is to
be augmented by another ’plane.
* * * *
“Wool Away” : The big job of shifting Aus-
tralia’s wool clip overseas has started. This
new race has taken the place of the old
romantic rush to get the new season’s tea
from Canton to London. Instead of the
white-winged clippers, fast cargo-liners now
battle for the honor and profit, of first home
with the golden fleece. Four big liners left
Sydney within hours of each other racing for
British and European ports; they carry
altogether 60,000 bales of wool, valued at
£1,400,000.
* * * *
“Geebung” : That Westralian shark enter-
prise (B. 15/9/’27) will have its head-
quarters at Carnarvon. Shark hide is unsur-
passed for durability and quality. It has a
natural grain which, when properly treated,
makes it superior to the best animal hides;
it can be converted into the finest and softest
or the hardest and toughest leather. Trac-
. tieally the whole of the shark is commercially
profitable. Its liver, weighing up to 1001 b.,
contains valuable oil; then the bones can be
turned into glue, and the body makes a
nitrogenous fertiliser. The pancreatic glands
also contain quantities of easily extracted
insulin.
* * * *
“C. 0.”: The latest dodge of the real-estate
gentry is a sort of manneqin-parade of
desirable dwellings, h. and c., suitable for
gent., etc. The sponsors of a garden-suburb
scheme in Melbourne’s toniest part are not
only laying out roads, parks and gardens but
erecting a specimen model home by a leading
firm of architects. It will be furnished
by a department-store, supplied with electric
labor-saving appliances down to a collar-
stud retriever by another, and decorated by
a third. One firm is arranging to deliver
lectures from time to time on the spot—sub-
ject, how to equip the home from the firm's
counters. The vendors are prepared to sup-
ply everything; so ordering a house will be
no harder than ordering a motor-car —if you
have the money.
# * * *
“Retired Volt” : A feature that struck me
about the electrical exhibition in Melbourne
was the fertility of the Australian inventive
faculty. Despite the preponderance o!
imported gear, the local product held up its
head bravely. It was small in numbers, but
excellent in quality. On the score of ingenu-
ity in adapting the invisible juice to man s
use it had nothing to be ashamed of. The
only objection I could find was its habit
of following foreign standards in design.
The foreign idea is to make everything look
like something else. Electric globes like
kerosene lamps, radiators like heaps of coal
or piles of faggots, pipeligliters like tele-
phone receivers—all of which suggests that
mankind’s imagination went bankrupt when
the electrical age was ushered in. If elec-
tricity had been discovered before fire —
the first fire was probably the production
of a lightning flash—the lamp and the stove
would have taken shapes quite different from
that of the oil-light which had to be placed
on a table, and the camp blaze that had to
be laid on the ground. Australian designers
could lead the world if they created designs
that expressed the true function and essen-
tial quality of electricity.


W& —iillull
um
S 3
'
' «
i L
m
111
X
<s2fl
#-0#
li
11
li
U
»
li
11
II
wm
mkWmsM' amm
WM
m
X
m!
iieo>
m
First
in electric refrigeration
in Australia
TAUGHT by his car experience, the Australian demands proof of local
performance before he buys* He insists that American success must be
confirmed by performance in New South Wales* So it is with Electric
Refrigeration* Many so-called new systems are clamouring for attention, but here
is the proof of satisfaction that Kelvinator-Nizer alone can offer :
Four years’ use has proved many hundreds of Kelvinators in
New South Wales (from the Governor-General’s residence to
suburban villas) to give Perfect Electric Refrigeration for
domestic use.
Over a thousand Nizer installations are keeping Peters’famous
Jce Gream in that perfect condition in which it is served to you.
Kelvinator and Nizer are both Divisions of the great Electric Refrigeration Cor-
poration, and their combination affords a complete line of correctly engineered
installations for domestic and commercial purposes, with over thirteen years of world-
wide service behind them* In between refrigeration for the home and the keeping
of that most sensitive of articles, ice-cream, there is a wide range of commercial
uses —Restaurants, Provision Shops, Butchers' Counters, Confectioners Show-
cases, Hotel Bars for bottle and draught-beer cooling, Hospitals, etc*—-and tor each
of these there is a Kelvinator-Nizer unit to provide perfect and economical
refrigeration.
Why risk installing a refrigeration system which has only a fraction of the number
of satisfied users, right here in your own State, that Nizer-Kelvinator can show you *
Now is the time to instal—let us quote you for a suitable model* The attached
coupon will enable you to indicate your requirements with a minimum of trouble*
Post now or call at our showrooms first opportunity —any
Circular Quay tram or ferry drops you almost at the door.
T W
Kelvmator
v
ELECTRIC REFRIGERATI
DANGAR, GEDYE & CO. LTD.
MALLOCH HOUSE
10-14 YOUNG STREET, SYDNEY
Kindly forward particulars of your KELVIN AT OR
models and installations suitable for a flat or private residence.
The average number of people in the household is
lam also interested in a Kelvinator suitable for a Boardin ?


Under
Royal
Warrant
h
To H.M.
George V
Vintage 1917.
CHAMPAGNE
CtefeMici
Australasian Agents—
Swift & Company Limited
SYDNEY.
m
CtIAMPACNC
REIMS
x 4
PELLISSON
Cognac Brandy.
10 YEARS OLD,
Australasian Averts—
SWIFT & COMPANY LIMITED, Sydney.
THE WENTWORTH
Sydney's Leading Residential Hotel.
OTirmrnnnni!
1
i ?i««« m is«is is ■
i 3 H^jngfjnKP
k
The perfect compliment to
luxurious travel.
Steam Heated in Winter,
Air Cooled in Summer.
The ideal environment for quiet sojourn, com-
bined with an atmosphere of distinction
seldom found outside the famous hostelries of
London and the Continent.
Bed and Breakfast from 15/-. Inclusive Board from 26/-
Dinners every night 8/6 ; Thursdays and Saturdays, Special Dinner, 10/6. Perfect examples of an
inimitable cuisine which has made the name of the Wentworth Hotel famous throughout Australasia.
Attached is the Wentworth Cafe with its Magnificent Ballroom and Palm Court,
in which are served Dinners, Suppers and Afternoon Teas in conjunction with
Delightful Dance Music and Sparkling Cabaret.
Special Business Men’s Luncheons, 3/6.
~&>P centre of Queens fonets
Soc/o/L/fe.
€emwm
BRISBANE
Magnificent B a 11-
room. Palm Court
and Lounges at the disposal of
guests and their friends at all
times.
Suites de Luxe—double and single
Bedrooms, with Bathrooms
attached. Hot and cold running
water and Electric Fans in every
Bedroom, and every modern con-
venience for the comfort of guests.
Telegrams and Cables: Lennon’s, Brisbane,
Telephone, Central 5180 —10 Lines.
WOMAN'S
LETTER
SAY
Kayser
SILK OR
CHAMOISETTE
GLOVES
Country Women’s Week is now one of the
fixtures in the social calendar of the Country
Women’s Association. The idea is to link up
the members of the C.W.A. in country towns
and in city by a mild whirlwind of social
activities for the good of the Cause. This
year, alas! many of the out-back towns did
not participate, owing to the bad drought
conditions. Sydney members and visitors
from the country started in on a mild jag
early in the week, the first frivol being a
ea&aret at the Wentworth. Here the blue-
room was turned into a Seer’s Cave, and for
a price the curious could peer into the future
over a hand previously crossed with silver.
An exquisite doll presented by Mrs. Mac-
lurcau was the prize sought in a guessing
competition, and lucky envelopes sold briskly
at ruling prices. Dame Alice Chisholm, who
was skipper of the committee, sat with first
and second mates Mrs. H. C. Mclntyre and
Mrs. Percy Freer at a table on which pink
roses bloomed gaily.
Every second day last week saw the ves-
tibule of Her Majesty’s turned into a gor-
geous green-grocery and flower shop. Here
were the juicy carrot and turnip, deb. pota-
toes in silken coats, and eggs fresh from the
home of the generous white leghorn. The
shop was a feature of Country Women’s
week, and flowers —banked-up riches of lilac
and daffodils and violets —from the closer
branches of the Country Women’s Associa-
tion ravished the gaze of the flat-dweller.
Dame Alice Chisholm and Mrs. Colin Venn
were the stage managers of this little bit of
what ought, to be rural life, but generally
isn’t. In 41 country towns linked by this
great association, street stalls and dances,
perambulator parades, aerial derbys and baby
shows have whirled the citizens, if not into
happiness, at least into a position to view
a result highly satisfactory to local charities
and C.W.A. aims.
Miss Australia would naturally prefer
not to go outside this Continent for any
of her needs, but when she must she looks
for the sign “Made in Britain.” That is
why this Letter turned a friendly eye on the
first dance of the Association of British
Manufacturers. In this State alone there
are 240 members of this active body, and
most of them, with their wives and daughters
and friends, made merry at the Ambassadors
last week. The frocking was as varied as
the empire on which the sun never sets.
The supper, too. started with the stolidity
of pea-soup and ended on the frivolity of
coffee-flavored ices. The tables were heady
with the bouquet of flowers and of wines,
and on the official board Cupid or somebody
had dropped an arrow of pansies and sweet-
peas. Here presided chairman' Cecil Mayo,
and. supporting him, Mrs. Mayo, in soft rose
georgettes flashing with sequins, and Blanche
D’Alpuget, in a South-Sea symphony in
green and silver. The Mayoral Mostyns
were kept away by election business, but
Deputy-Mayoress Mrs. Green, very bright of
eye, collected the presentation-posy and a
huge decanter of eau-de-Cologne. (Cologne:
A rural English resort!) The night’s prizes
deserve a word of praise. A Royal Doulton
vase was carried home by the winner of the
spotlight dance, and an electric iron by the
lady whose balloon bore the charmed number
Just-arrived-from-England Captain Philip
Lamb brought his attractive wife and his
sister-in-law, Miss Alderson, and a group of
friends, and the night’s secretary. E. Blan-
chard, looked upon his wmrk and called it
worth while. 1
Tenor Joseph Hislop has proved a solid
draw through a prolonged season, arid his
popularity is a complete reply to the sug-
gestion that no British vocalist can impress
the Australian public with his art. Nor
was Hislop’s success dependent on a fashion-
able whim; it was built on the sound foun-
dation of rather dowdy, thoroughly musical
audiences. The singer, who had under-
taken to listen to aspiring grand-opera stars,
emerged from the ordeal with the air of one
whose head is bloody but unbowed. Over
200 songbirds did he hearken to, male and
female, but mostly female. They carolled
loud and clear, either on the note or off it.
Some swept on to the stage with the verve of
a Melba bowing a third recall, and then,
alas! they gave forth a thin pipe that
barely reached the first row in the orchestra.
Amazons and sylphs, all silk-stockinged
most of them shingled or Eton-cropped the
vast majority of them sturdy of limb’ and
fearless of regard—just the cut for principal
boys in pantomime! The Carusos and John
McCormacks were more diffident in bearing
and richer in voice. Two of the tenors and
one basso made a distinct impression.
George Fuller’s lady was president of the
gilt-embossed committee that worked for the
Picton Golf Club Ball. The funds will go
to build a new club-house, of which returned
soldiers of the Picton settlement will be
honorary members. A long list of vice-
presidents included the J. W. Macarthur
Onslow and George Macarthur Onslow mat-
rons, Mrs. Charles Hotham, Mrs. Jack Camp-
bell and Mrs. Graves Bennett. The Ambassa-
dors was the fairway along which the ball
rolled g’aily, and irons and masliies were the
prizes for the veterans of the old-fashioned
waltz and for her who had sold the most
tickets. Writing-girl Rose de Warren and
Muriel Herbert, who had joined forces in
the heavy secretarial work, sat at the official
table, over which the Fuller lady presided
in glittersome sea-greens; daughter Mrs.
Frank Wharton sat close by in mingled
black and pink ninons; Mrs. Westphail,
another of the night’s workers, was wrapped
in filmy black weighted with gold embroider-
ies ; alongside was Mrs. Rainbow, whose
raiment was white georgette on which crystal
flashed like the drops of a summer shower.
The naval Leo Quirks ate the bread-sauce of
Dame Nellie Melba. Bertie Kelly was of this
group, and the Roy Ross. Munros. The
Dame was sheathed in silver brocades and
pearls beyond price. Major-General Antill
and Grant Hanlon, whose energies are
directed towards the Picton settlement, were
others who cheered the night along. Mrs.
C. G. Berge and R. M. Duncan kept the
treasury.
The drowsy moth gnashed its teeth in rage
last Thursday night when the uniform it
had picked for itself, its heirs and assigns
was ruthlessly exposed to the icy night wind.
Thousands of moths in the bud must have
perished, and another victory was won by our
combined land, sea and air defenders. Under
the banner of the Imperial Service Club the
warriors met in joyous conclave for the third
year at the Wentworth. Medals flashed and
uniforms sent out color vibrations that
rivalled those of the flower-decked tables.
Viceregals came to this party, the Viking
and liis young naval son throwing such a
weight into the scales in favor of the man-
o’-war that the orchestra could scarcely be
restrained from bursting into a sailor's horn-
pipe. Brigadier-General Goddard, brave in
scarlet and gold, received the guests, and
supporting him, equally upright and brilliant,
were Colonel G. C. Somerville and Lieut.-
Colonel Hyman. Lady de Chair wore mingled
black and gold frocking, with gold leaves in
her hair. Green and gold were flown by
Elaine, and Rosemary Osborne, who was
with the Government House party, was
gracefully draped in black lace. Commander
Lowther was the bodyguard, and he squired
a poinsettia-red wife. The Captain Goodwin
couple came from Newcastle for the night’s
fun and Brigadier-General Herring and
his wife were in the trail of jazz. Mrs. Pat
Levy, more than ever like a graceful
faint water-color drawing in her lilac
georgettes, was among the night’s hostesses.
Mrs. Leo Quick looked like a graceful bronze
in rhythmic georgette. Marjorie Rutherford
came with her doctor brother; Yvonne de la
Rue glittered in silver and the Captain
Philip Lambs, radiant over their discovery of
Australia, were among the hosts, she in hand-
some black and crystal.
Here is the first Australian Juno of
Sean O’Casey’s arresting “Juno and the Pay-
cock.” Kath-
leen Griffin,
the girl in this
May M oore
picture, draws
out all the
heroism and
wealth of de-
votion to her
children shown
by this poor,
bewildered - by-
life Irish-
woman of the
Dublin, slums.
She is a pro-
duct of Dun-
can Macdoug-
all’s genius as
a produce r,
and made her
first appear-
ance at the
little theatre
in Rowe-street.
One of the greatest money-spinners among
the season’s efforts was the Daffodil Cabaret
that bloomed at the Wentworth last week
for the Red Cross. Nearly a thousand
people squeezed into the party, and soon the
ballroom, the blue-room, the balconies, the
stage and the top deck at the entrance were
a tight mass of humans. Up in the bal-
cony sedate ladies built the Wall of China
with the poetic symbols invented by a great
artist long ago, and in the blue-room
enthusiasts kept the Bridge or auctioned it
with a fervor as intense as any that stirred
Horatius. The gold of the daffodils was
exchanged by daffodil-maids for mere silver,
and six little daffies danced gaily. Mrs.
Maclurcan, the fairy godmother of the
party, smiled over a high-handled basket at
the jocund afternoon she had evoked.
Mayoress Mostyn, Mrs. Philip Street, Mrs.
Macarthur Onslow, Mrs. R. R. S. Mac-
kinnon and Miss Kate Egan were other im-
portant people in the crowded afternoon.
Another Wentworth flutter that added a
gay streamer to last week was the dance
in aid of the Westmead Boys’ Orphanage.
Deputy-Mayoress Mrs. Frank Green did the
honors in place of Mrs. Mostyn, and gave an
official benediction to four radiant little
debs.
George Taylor, with his “lightning art”
and his crisp patter, was the party at the
Women Painters’ Club the other after-
noon. An amazing memory, its edges curled
with humor, original and garnered, and an
acquaintanceshin with Sydney notables in
politics, art and letters for the past two
decades, make Mr. Taylor one of Sydney’s
most interesting speakers.
The University Appeal Committee is
lucky in interesting Mrs. Herrick Knowles
in the Pageant
of the Great
U n i v e rsities
which it in-
tends to stage
for the benefit
of the Birth-
day Appeal.
Don Finlay is
arranging the
b a c kgrounds
and costumes
for the Old
Masters and
their disciples;
and to Mrs.
Knowles falls
th e work o f
training the
undergrads of
Athens, of
Padua, of
Bologna, and
of other noted
schools down
the ages in the delivery of the lines of wis-
dom they will utter. A daughter of that
cultured actor, Titheradge, Mrs. Knowles is
one of Sydney’s most correct speakers of
our mother tongue. But it is no wonder
the lady’s speech never approaches the
slovenly. One of her early recollections is'
hearing her father (then a trifle hard of
hearing, but not admitting it) saying through
the telephone to no less a beautiful speaker
than the just-dead Walter Bentley: “I can
hear; but sound your consonants, Bentley,
sound your consonants!” Our picture is
from the Hollywood studio.
Dr. Jeannette Howes sailed on the Naldera
on Wednesday for Rangoon, where she will
be married to Mr. H. Marsh (he is in rice).
Dr. Howes will be accompanied by her
golden-haired sister Helene, who will be
bridesmaid. On Saturday night Dt. Howes
entertained at the Ambassadors. The table
was decorated with flowering plum and the
cloth scattered with purple pansies. The
hostess wore blush-pink silk crgpe with an
outsize velvet bow. Dr. Howes is the elder
daughter of Mr. and Mrs. J. 11. Howes, of
Bradley’s Head, Mosman.
Surgeon John McKelvey’s wife was belle
of the ball the other night when Prince
Alfred medicoes and their best girls had a
night out at the Wentworth. Her gold lace
frock, with its trail of sweet-pea about the
skirt, suggested some old English ceremonial
of Spring. The hospital’s matron, too,
looked as though she’d been going a-maying,
for the shoulder of her frock was abloom.
Flowers spilled their glory everywhere, and
daffodils and poppies had been massed with
spendthrift hand on every table. Dr. Cecil
Purser and his black-velveted lady did the
honors at the official table. Rex Money, the
hospital’s medical superintendent, brought
his mother. Mrs. Angel Money, in the soft-
ness of vellum lace. Susan Spencer tested
a theory in metallurgy in her frock, which
combined steel lace on gold tissue. Millie
Sheldon chose white and Marjorie Ruther-
ford black lace. Three young medicine-
women, Judy Henderson, Marjorie Dalgarno
and Phyllis Anderson, were among the
hostesses; and one of the night’s striking
frocks was worn by Mrs. Wyley, who came
with her doctor-husband. Its sea-green
moires ran to wine-flushed borders, and a
whole summer blooming of rosebuds was
woven into its spreading skirt.
Many old eyes will have been gladdened
by reading of the appearance of Mrs. Angel
Money with her doctor-son. Thirty years
ago Dr. Angel Money was the great Mac-
quarie-street physician of the day. He it
was who was called into consultation in
Henry Parkes’s last illness. After he had
been introduced the old man repeated his
name. “Angel Money—Angel Money. A
little of the best of both worlds !”
The windows of the new David Jones
shop glaze the frontage that was part of
the old Girls’ High School in Castlereagh-
street; then they take in Market-street and
sweep round into Elizabeth-street. Just now
they are heaped with treasures that speak i
prologue to the clothes drama that is tc
follow when the Firm really moves in fron
its old George-street address. One window
represents the porch of a church, where i
bridal party is grouped. The bride in bil
lowy and shimmering white; and two tiappei
maids in primrose tulle very full as to skin
and tight as to bodice watch from undei
scuttle hats the manipulation of the bride’s
train by a tiny grass-green attendant whose
left arm is encumbered by a tall gold basket
of yellow blooms. Another small maid tc
match is poised in the middle distance. The
only thing lacking is a built-in organ pour-
ing forth the Wedding March. Around the
corner the bride is seen in a teeth-watering
set of pink crepe-de-Chine pyjamas pulling
down her bedroom blind. Two side windows
reveal the rest of the sumptuous trousseau.
Every sort of gorgeous fabric and costly
dress detail that most women dream of and
a lucky few possess glow alluringly behind
the plate-glass. Two things only this Letter
could discover no trace of—flannelette
nighties and black cashmere stockings.
The little shops thereabout are feeling
glad that big brother David Jones's new
home is nearly finished. One girl in a near-
by specialty shop told this Letter that a
large part of the day’s customers had been
viewing the window display of the big firm
and had thus noticed her little treasure-
chest for the first time.
Una Syms chose Gowan Dale, the home
of her aunt, Mrs. Bwen Gore, for the scene
of her matrimonial entanglement with Dr.
Mervyn Hall, of Orange. A monster wed-
ding-bell and an ecpially robust horseshoe in
pink and white sweet-pea formed the bridal
canopy during the exchange of vows. The
bride’s picture frock was a foam of tulle
frills over rich ivory satin, and rippled
softly to the floor, its way marked on the
right by a long trail of pink rosebuds. A
misty tulle veil and a posy of heather, lilies
of the valley and roses finished off the pic-
torial effect. Her mother. Mrs. S. S. Robin,
handed her over and made an excellent foil
for her daughter’s shimmering whiteness in
her own black georgette frocking and mil-
linery. Ethel Lavery and Hope Major, who
’maided, suggested the spirit of the lilac-
tree in the delicate mauve and springleaf-
grecn of their old-fashioned taffetas.
Groom’s mother, who came from Orange for
the junketing, wore black and white raiment
of distinction and carried an armful of scar-
let carnations.
The middle age of the Great Synagogue
was stirred to a renewed youth one evening
last week by boughs of flowering peach.
From porch to wedding canopy was a lane
hedged by lilies and palms and white car-
nations. Joyce Wellesley Hyman was the
bride _wlio walked amidst this splendor in
glittering finery of white georgette and silver
to answer the usual leading questions put
by Rabbi Cohen. Arthur E. Kaye, of Lon-
don, sustained the male part of the dialogue.
Three maids in a sunset effect of blue and
pink attended the bride, who was squired
by her father, Dieut.-Colonel A. W. Hyman,
of Woollahra. Subsequent cocktails at the
Ambassadors.
Two young medicoes who have discovered
with Will Shakespeare that Springtime’s the
only pretty ring time are Keith B. Davis, of
Prince Alfred, and Joseph Abbott, of North
Shore. The first persuaded Celia Alice
Marks, of Woollahra; the second, Doreen
Story, of Strathfield.
Another true-love’s knot to bind Queens-
land to the Ma State was tied when Holly
Tarrant, only daughter of the C. H. Tar-
rants, of Bellevue Hill, hung out the usual
diamond ring given by Gerald Burke, of
Springsure.
To those who appreciate the value of the
Australian Inland Mission there are tiding;
of great joy in the announcement that its
“Flying Doctor” scheme is to get a start.
The mission believes that it is only possible
to secure permanent settlement where life is
made tolerable for women, and this, it
believes, means medical assistance. That
contention has been supported by the arrival
of women in centres where the mission’s
bush hospitals have been erected; but the
hospitals are only dots in thousands of square
miles of country, and the ambition has always
been to attach an aeroplane service to the
bigger hospitals which will enable a doctor to
fly to any spot where his help is needed.
Now the mission has £7OOO in hand for this
scheme; and early next year it will, in the
language of the moment, be given a fly.
That future generations of undergrads,
may know how Dr. Johnnie Hunter looked
just before his untimely death —the dark
head, the deep gaze, the wide humorous
mouth—the Uni. Medical Society has de-
cided to have a portrait painted. The funds
from a dance at the Wentworth the other
night will be turned into this pool. Dr. Sil-
verton and Mr. C. McDermott were the sec-
retaries for the dance, and their hard work
was evidenced in the gallant roll-up. Dr.
Gus Bohrsman was president of the com-
mittee, and Dr. iCecil Purser, the head of
Prince Alfred’s, with Mrs. Purser, sat at
meat with the president of the B.M.A. and
his lady.


HAR.DY B FLOS LTD.
J E W E L L E R_S
PEARL NECKLETS
ĥ
and loose Pearls
Always fashionable and in per-
fect taste for every occasion, a
Pearl Necklet is a woman’s most
prized possession, no other Jewels
giving such lasting pleasure.
A small Pearl Necklet is often
purchased, and on Birthdays and
other Anniversaries extra Pearls
added until a large and valuable
string is obtained.
Hardy’s stock of Pearl Necklets
and loose Pearls are bought only
on the most favorable terms and
offer the best value and largest
selection in Australasia.
Pearl Necklets range from £lO/10/- to £5OOO.
Five per cent, discount for Cash.
Hardy's Catalogue will be sent Post Free to any address, on request.
298-300
COLLINS ST„
MELBOURNE.
HARDY
BROTHERS LTD
7/ouse aP&ec iuswcUewtlUrtJ
13 HUNTER STREET, SYDNEY.
And at LONDON.
Jl6-118
QUEEN Si'.,
BRISBANE.
The
World’s
Standard
■V:
'i&T
>c
for Watch Integrity
Slender, graceful, accurate —every
tiny wheel and cog made with
unusual care. So wafer-like that
it slips into your pocket almost
unnoticed. ELGIN is conceded to
be the world’s standard for watch
integrity, and to such efficiency is
wedded beauty of design.
OBTAINABLE FROM ALL LEADING JEWELLERS.
&lgin
THE WATCH WORD FOR ELECANCE AND EFFICIENCY
/hi? < frade Mark
ħ
in the Watch Care
mm
mmm
A Wonderful New
BOX CAMERA
MSm
Produced by the
makers of the world-
famous Ensign Car-
bines, this new box
camera is an entirely
new invention, which
marks the greatest
step forward for
many years in the
simplification of pic-
ture making.
THE ALL DISTANCE
ENSIGN
h
Jt is the smallest box camera
in the world, taking 2%in. x
3Jin. pictures. In addition to
many other features not
found in any other camera, it
is fitted with a specially-
designed “All-Distance” Lens,
which is able to take close-
up and distance objects in the
same subject and give brilli-
antly-sharp results for both.
Inspect the wonderful "All-
Distance” Ensign at Harring-
tons. Harringtons have a
complete range of the world’s
best makes of box cameras at
prices from 8/6.
Harringtons sell Kodaks,
Brownies and All Kodak
Photo Supplies.
Since 1889
The House jor GOOD Cameras
us
386 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
Also at Katoomba, Newcastle, Melbourne, Brisbane, Adelaide,
Wellington (N.Z.)> Auckland (N.Z.)>
Best Sport Competition
(Man or Woman)
IN CONJUNCTION WITH MONSTER ART UNION
OBJECT: TO RAISE £25,000 FOR THE
KINDERGARTEN UNION OF N.S.W.
Will you help us to raise £25,000 so that we can erect more Free Kindergartens
and establish a Hospital Kindergarten where poor crippled children doomed to
a life of suffering can be brought each day, to derive the benefits of the beautiful
Kindergarten teaching and to have a little more sunshine brought into their lives?
Mr. Boyd Edkins—well known to all motorists, and a good sportsman—has
agreed to stand as a candidate in the “Best Sport” Competition. Racing Clubs,
Sporting Bodies and several large Business Houses are nominating candidates.
We need your help.
COMPETITION PRIZES:
Ist Prize—
A Citroen De Luxe Motor-car (Imported Body), valued at £4lO
2nd Prize—
Full Sporting Outfit (for man or woman), valued at . . . £lOO
3rd Prize—
A Special Prize of an Order for Goods on any Shop to the
value of £5O
(To be competed for by Business Girls.)
ART UNION.
Hi m
»•>
rf-1f
"“‘•V- - : ft ;_
" " '-:,C If
The first prize in the Art Union is a
Three-year-old (imported) Racing Thorough-
bred—“Sunflare,” by “Sunstar” (winner of the
English Derby), valued at 1500 guineas. “Sun-
flare” won the Newbury Twiford Nursery
Handicap, 7 furlongs, beating 12 others, and
was then bought by Mr. Rundle Brendon and
shipped to Australia, and is now at H.
Chisholm and Co.’s stable, Randwick. Insured
for £lOOO, policy will be transferred to holder
of winning ticket.
2nd Prize: A Vauxhall 14-40-h.p. Motor-car (Latest Model), valued at £BOO.
3rd Prize: An Oldsmobile Coach, valued at £3OO. 4th Prize: A Pianola (Gul-
bransen), valued at £220. sth Prize: A Piano (Beale’s Upright Grand), valued
at£l6s. 6th Prize: Gramophone (Brunswick), valued at £125. 7th Prize: Sonora
Wireless Set (E.F. Wilks), valued at £ll2. Bth Prize: Electric Kelvinator, valued
at £lOO. 9th Prize: Case of Stainless Cutlery, valued at £75. 10th Prize: Gold
Diamond Studded Wristlet Watch, valued at £37/10/-. And 14 other prizes,
making a total value of £3658/12/-.
Art Union will be Drawn in the Town Hall on November 23 at 4 V- m -
Butts and money must be in not later than November 21.
All Information and Art Union Tickets, 1/- each,
or in books of 20 for 16/-
Obtainable from—
THE ORGANISING SECRETARY,
MRS. MACDONALD,
12 SPRING STREET, SYDNEY.
Tel. 84970.


RICH, RIPE WHEAT
MATURED IN AUSTRALIAN SUNSHINE
% '.fi
n
i*4
n
A
He
M
(fRfGD
r/m
111
ipteis
|U-
' io:n|UMJ!li‘P 11 ' «Mlllll
MMessm
c*
£r
L_E
V
V*-
\\
1\
h>:
/F
M-
bu.
11:
s
%
s 5
Q*- >
m
u
Delightfully
Wholesome
Wheatose Biscuits are delightfully rich and
light, and a supremely valuable aid to diges-
tion, in fact they are—in delicious form—
Natures own safeguard against indigestion.
In them you will find a masterly conver-
sion of rich sun ripened wheat into a table
delight for every meal that will prove in-
valuable to your health.
Delicious
Always
In Wheatose Biscuits there is a dainty crisp
shortness; and that rare delicious wheat
flavour that appeals instantly to everyone.
They are ideal for morning tea, afternoon
tea, and in fact every meal, and they make
supper possible to those who have even the
weakest digestions. Ask your grocer to
send you a tin to-day.
Your Grocer Keeps Them For Economy Buy Whole Tins
f
D
A
FAMOUS
mn
Buy Australian Made and Build Australian Trade


NATIONAL HOTEL,
BRISBANE.
Charges are for Room Only. European Plan.
Dining Service a la Carte
STRICTLY FIRST CLASS.
TARIFF:
Write for Descriptive Folder.
1
it
SB f
Address Manager—
ROWES, LTD.,
Cafe and Hotel Proprietors,
BRISBANE.
u
THE WOMAN’S MIRROR
J 7
Contains everything that women should know, from kitchen to
drawing-room, from the cradle to old age.
FREE PATTERN EVERY WEEK.
It is the most remarkable Threepennyworth ever printed
‘THE WOMAN’S MIRROR.”
PUBLISHED EVERY TUESDAY,
3d.
Price
m ■
THE HOTEL RANELAGH,
ROBERTSON, N.S.W.
Australia’s Tourist Hotel De Luxe.
Accommodation for 130 guests.
Outdoor sports: Golf, Tennis, Riding, Croquet.
Indoor amusements: Dancing, Billiards, Bridge, etc.
SUMMER TARIFF: September 1 to May 16, 21/.
per day. Inclusive Weekly £6/6/-
Booking Office: 84 Pitt Street, Sydney. ’Phone: 86491.
Melbourne
Chatter.
Buckley's
Elizabethan
Tea Booms
[?]800 [?]
[?]
[?]
The Rotarians’ dance and bridge party
at St. Kilda Town Hall on Friday night was
a benefit for the the Boy Scouts, and there
were Rotary and Scout emblems all over the
place. Lady Somers, who accompanied her
husband, wore georgette of deep wine hue,
and received a pink bouquet from the wife
of the Rotary president, Mrs. Mcßoberts,
who wore black encrusted with floral bead
embroidery terminating in flounces of black
and cerise fringe; Mayoress Dawkins, of St.
Kilda, chose petunia-pink, with a trimming
of silver; Dr. L. J. Clendinnen’s wife was
in black, supporting a crystal fringe. Pat
Clarke, daughter of Frank Clarke and his
lady, was ticket-secretary, and wore georg-
ette of autumn red with trails of harmonis-
ing flowers. Her sister Mamie danced in
pink tulle with a sash of lavender shade.
Mrs. Robert Knox waved a black feather fan
over bronze and mauve brocade. Barbara
Buckland, from the Western district, was
in black worked in silver. Mrs. R. H.
Morton wore striking attire of black and
white sprinkled with rhinestones, with a
narrow crystal fringe at intervals. Another
recently returned traveller, Mrs. Richard
Allen, also displayed the magpie effect, with
beaded motifs of sealing-wax red. Kathleen
Currie, also just back from wanderings
abroad, wore dainty fluffy apparel of peach-
pink, patterned in crystal; her fair hair is
still unshorn. Joan Lempriere and Mrs.
Bruce Mead took the floor in frocks of
spring green.
The Third Division’s ball at Ormond Hall
on Friday night was a spectacular jollo,
scarlet mess-jackets and an array of other
military and naval uniforms vying with the
gay apparel of the shingled dancers. Chinese
lanterns and fairy lights of every hue were
part of the decorations. Mrs. Elliott, wife
of the divisional commandant —the A.I.F.
knew him best as “Pompey”—wore black
with opalescent embellishment. Rear-Admiral
Napier’s wife was in apricot-shaded georg-
ette ; Major-General Chauvel’s lady chose
pink with sparkling additions, and Major-
General Brand’s better-half danced in gold
lace draperies. Mrs. Cass, who was with
her Colonel, looked as handsome as ever in
a gold and brown striped gown with gold
leaves banding her black locks. General
McGlynn’s daughter Ruth was softly clad in
pink with sparkling adornment. The wife
of Group-Captain Williams of the Air Board
was pretty in nattier-blue velvet; Captain
J. B. Stevenson’s life-partner wore a simple
frock of dregs-of-wine hue, which was most
attractive, and Major Payne’s helpmeet
joined the dance in velvet of ashes-of-roses
hue.
The first i-hododendrons of the season
cheered the mantelpiece of the Lyceum Club's
reception-room one night last week, when
members gave dinner to 11 Australian author-
esses. The table was glorified by daffodils in
yellow bowls. The acting-president, Mrs.
E. F. Allan, was mistress of ceremonies,
and proposed the toast of Mrs. iEneas Gunn.
Jessie Webb paying tribute to the other 10.
Mrs. J. G. Latham, Frances Fraser, Mrs.
Norman Derham and Emily .Charlwood said
nice things about the guests, too. Mrs.
Gunn, who wore a black lace gown, and
Mrs. Marion Knowles, in reseda-green, re-
turned thanks for themselves and their
sisters of the pen. Mrs. Neville Joske, with
a pink rose and strings of pearls sparkling
up a cream lace frock, lent an air of
smartness to the principal table. Her sister,
Margot Goyder, achieved an Oriental effect
in emerald-green georgette and figured liip-
drapery. A wonderful embroidered shawl
was displayed by Doris Capel Boake. Geor-
gia Rivers, a nice maiden whose shingle
crop appeared above a blue and silver-frosted
frock. Hilda Bridges, Gertrude Hart, Mrs.
Daskein, Ethel Castilla and Mrs. Marie
Pitt made up the quota of guests.
The English-Speaking Union’s tea-party at
the Palms, Henley, on Thursday afternoon
was part of the Australian Authors’ Week
doings, and served also to welcome Prof. G.
H. Blakeslee, a visitor from U.S.A. Carrie
Haase, all in crimson crinoline millinery and
a crgpe de Chine gown of the same hue, read
an extract from Mrs. iEneas Gunn’s “We
of the Never Never” and poems by Turner
and Arthur PI. Adams, Hilda Steven con-
tributing verses by her brother. Professor
Osborne, th e E.-S.U. president, paid tribute
to Australian writers; the Robinson lady,
as head of the Union’s library, had a few
words to say, and Bernard O’Dowd returned
thanks on behalf of the literary lights.
Women’s interest in the R.A.S. Show be-
comes most acute when they approach the
pavilion given over to homely industries.
There is a brave array of embroidered and
lace-bordered supper- and tray-cloths, lin-
gerie and knitted garments. Pearl Chandler
carried off the prize for the most original bit
of work in the needlework section, a bridge
cloth of old bleached linen with every card
in the pack worked in correct colors around
it. Some of the exhibitors of cross-stitchery
have copied Japanese and Chinese designs,
traced in the finest of colored threads. The
Women’s Institutes of the Victoria League
demonstrate some of the handicrafts they
are teaching to girls and women in country
centres. One of the cleverest notions in the
show is a collapsible two-burner stove, with
an oven, run by petrol. It folds up like a
suit-case and should solve a whole host of
picnic problems.
Donna Grossardi, who is president of the
Hawthorn-Ivcw Auxiliary of St. Vincent’s
Hospital, arranged a dance at the Rex the
other night to help her pet institution. She
played the hostess in black splashed with
gold and green sequins. Secretarial duties
were shared by Mrs. W. Mortill, in mauve
with crystal embellishment, and Mrs. J. J.
Daly, who wore a frock of the same hue with
fringe adornment. Mrs. D. H. Dureau held
the purse, which was bloated by the takings
of various stalls —the idea of grafting a
bazaar on to a charity dance has taken a
firm hold. Mrs. W. J. McCarthy, with opal-
escent glitter upon a blue gown, and Mrs. J.
Gray, also in sparkling raiment, helped with
the management, aided by a bevy of pretty
girls, and quite a number of Consuls and
their wives put in an appearance.
Tea was handed round to many guests by
Mrs. George Langridge at her Armadale
home one afternoon last week to welcome
back her daughter, Mrs. A. J. Phillips, of
Penang. Mrs. Crealock Price, daughter of
Mrs. Chris Cowper, who lias just returned
from a tour, shared the greetings. There
was music—Eileen Castles sang —and the
drawing-room was decked with cherry and
almond blossoms and pink camellias. The
hostess was in black, brightened with beige
trimmings, and wore a small hat with
feather adornment. Her daughter Marie
showed blendings of geranium-red and pale
pink in frock and millinery. Mrs. George
Langridge’s black gown was topped with a
hat of petunia mauve. Mayoress Morell and
daughter Sheila and the Best lady were
among the guests.
Mrs. Marion Miller Knowles, glimpsed here
by a Falk camera, has carved a little niche
for herself in the temple of Australian let-
tors. She has
publish e d
many novels
and two books
of verse. When
she retired
from the staif
of the Advo-
cate recently,
her admirers,
who are many,
determined to
pay tribute to
her long and
distinguis h e d
career as an
Inky W a y-
farer, and a
test imonial
fund is grow-
ing rapidly. A
bridge party
or two and a
dance for this
fund have al-
ready taken place, and were splendidly
attended. Several other functions are also
on the boards to add to the cheque. Mrs.
Knowles has two sons; the eldest is doing
Law at the local shop and the other has gone
into a city bank.
The Green Mill was the scene of a fast
and furious frolic one night last week, Olsen
and Johnson, the vaudevillians, having
chosen it as the scene of a festive farewell.
The party began at ‘midnight and ended at
sunrise. The place was crowded to suffo-
cation and the company came uncertain.as to
the status of the entertainment, so that
walking-suits did the Black Shuffle with
bare backs. Dainty Thurza Rogers and Olive
Sloan sported the smartest frocks. Beppie
de Vries was there, too. Many a pocket
contained a flask, and the proceedings were
extremely animated.
Frances Alda got a bit of her own back
on a Melbourne audience at her matinee last
week. The name of Cecil Parkes, whose
fiddle chimed in with some of the singer’s
finest efforts, was omitted from the pro-
gramme. Alda made explanation, adding “I
know Australians as a rule don’t like Aus-
tralians, but this” (waving towards Parkes)
“is one you should like.” The singer’s
audiences have been a bit meagre, and the
gibe wasn’t unwarranted. The diva suffered
during her final appearances here from a
cold which was not improved by a draughty
platform. She sang standing so dose to a
radiator as to endanger the roseate fringe
which dangled from her sparkling white
frock. The singer’s huge ostrich-feather fans
are as numerous as her gowns, and her
entrance with outspread fan held aloft never
failed to cause a flutter. At her afternoon
concert she wore a sable stole over a white
gown glimmering with crystal and bead
fringe.
The Austral Salon took Peter Gawthorne,
the English actor who has been giving us his
version of Hamlet, to its bosom the other
afternoon. He and his wife, who wore a
black ensemble frock and squirrel furs, with
a cloche hat, were given tea and compli-
ments, and the secretary, Mrs. Quinnell,
handed the lady a bouquet of pink blossoms
and mauve pansies. There was singing by
Mollie Warden, Jessie Batchelor and Marian
Lightfoot, and Margaret Kerr gave a Leacock
sketch. Myrtle Liddy accompanied the
singers. The Salon’s president, Mrs. Thomas
Baker, was hostess.
Here is pictured Margaret Kerr, one of
our entertainers and teachers of elocution.
She first saw the footlights as a five-year-old
fairy in a
musical play at
Stawell. Dur-
ing an interval
she spoke a
piece, and the
audience
howled for
more. She hails
from Mary-
borough (Vic.),
but for some
years has lived
at Ilawksburn.
She studied
unde r Louie
Dunn, a lead
mg lady of the
Llepertory
Society, an d
gained the
rcacher’s dip-
loma for elo-
cution of the
L.C.M. Dick-
inson-Monteath made the picture.
Edward Goll’s piano students were put
through their paces at the Assembly Hall on
Friday night before a big audience. Out-
standing performances were those of Freda
Manners-Sutton, who played the Chopin
Concerto in F Minor, with her teacher at a
second piano, and Isobel Carter, whose num-
bers were Arensky’s “Peons” and Novak’s
“Song of a Carnival Night.” Margaret
Davey, Ariel Seeligson and Mabel Nelson
also made a particularly good impression.
There were posies for all.
Mayor Morell took the lid off Charles
Wheeler’s show of paintings in the New
Gallery. The artist demonstrates his versa-
tility by essays in landscape, the nude and
portraiture. His portrait of an elderly lady,
Mrs. Anketell M. Henderson, was especially
admired. Among those who took the first
peep were Mrs. E. Shackell and her daughters
Aiinee and Betty, Mrs. Edward Bage,
Madame Mortill, and Sydney’s marine
painter, Charles Bryant.
Mrs. A. Gilfillan, who signs her dainty
little landscapes and still-life studies with
her maiden name, May Yale, is pursued by
a hoodoo. As soon as she announces an
exhibition of her work Fate puts a spoke in
the wheel. East year just before her show
she broke her right arm, and had to put on
finishing touches with her left hand. The
other day, just after deciding to exhibit on
October 10, she broke her collar-bone and
had to go into hospital. The date stands,
however.
When Betty Land, a daughter of the late
Captain Peter Land and Mrs. Land, formerly
of Tonga, married Cedric Staughton, she
wore Brussels lace and ninon with ethereal
swathings of white tulle and a ripple of
diamente. Eva Randall, in frock and wide-
leafed crinoline millinery of delphinium-blue,
was attendant maid. The bridegroom is the
younger son of the sturdy Staughton couple
who used to grow wool on the Staughton-
vale pasturage. The bells of St. John's,
Toorak, rang for the occasion, and the A. O.
Barretts, the bride’s uncle and aunt, enter-
tained afterwards at their home on Orrong-
road.
Nan, daughter of Dr. and Mrs. C. S.
Godfrey, of Brighton, said her vows at St.
Luke’s in that village to William Wells
Gilbert, son of the Lloyd Gilbert couple, of
the same briny bailiwick. The bride dressed
the part in a Frenchy gown of pale pink
georgette and blue and silver lace with tulle
attachment. Her cousin Peggy, daughter of
Dr. and Mrs. S. A. Ewing, was in harmony
as maid in a frock of mauve hue embroidered
in gold and floral effects, with crinoline
straw hat.
Paul Court’s fiancee, who came from Eng-
land to marry him recently, found his broken-
hearted mother in need of her comfort.
Paul arrived here on leave from his job in
India rather broken down in health by the
climate, and he proved an easy victim to
an attack of pneumonia which ended a very
promising career. He was connected with
the James family, being a cousin of com-
poser Willie James.
Elizabeth Coutie, daughter of Barton
Coutie, city engineer of Malvern, was
given her right to vote, a lot of birthday
presents and an engagement ring all on the
one day. She is to wed Keith Ballantyne.
Her dad has just returned from an exten-
sive trip abroad to look into European and
American methods of road-making, and came
back with a comprehensive scheme for the
whole State.
Gwen, eldest daughter of Mrs. Murch
Main, of Prospect, is receiving congratula-
tions on her engagement to C. R. Napier,
youngest son of the late H. St. John Napier,
of Stanmore, N.S.W.
Mrs. Russell Gabb's bridge party at the
Australia Cafe brought in a handsome
cheque for the Alfred Hospital. The Mackey
lady and Mrs. W. M. Robins, both
smartly tailored in black, ran a flower-stall
successfully, and Mrs. Charles Smith and
others sold lollipops.
Assisting with the ceiling and mural deco-
rations in Melbourne Town Hall is Charles
Lloyd, a lad scarcely out of his ’teens. He
is an Australian, born of Maoriland parents
and belonging to a family of artists. His
uncle, Trevor Lloyd, is a well-known car-
toonist in Fernland. Charles’s father, Harold
Lloyd, is a portrait photographer in this city,
and his hobbies are wood-carving and the col-
lection of portraits of old identities. In 20
years he has dug out every very old man or
woman of whom he could get trace —he pre-
fers ’em over 90 and has a respectable bag
of centenarians—and he has become an adept
at humoring aged folk and getting a little
sparkle and character back into their tired
old faces.
Mrs. Herbert Brookes held a gathering of
mayoresses at her South Yarra home the
other afternoon, to win their interest and
sympathy on behalf of the movement to estab-
lish a permanent orchestra. Mayoress Morell
was in the chair, and Mrs. Brookes spoke so
eloquently that all present resolved to do
something for the cause.
Early morning training gallops at Caul-
field are usually private affairs, but on
Monday the V.A.T.C. secretariat invited a
lot of folk to go out and watch a trial of
two-year-olds. There was quite a crowd
along the rails, and the jockeys wore full
regalia. Dozens of kiddies had a glorious
time, perched like sparrows upon the rails,
playing on the lawns and scrambling over
the seats of the members’ stand. Mclsaacs
didn’t officiate, but a pleasant time was had
by all, including the dozen or so of young
gee-gees lined up at the barrier.
Phyllis Jarrett, daughter of the E. Jarrett
couple, of Kyneton, who is a graduate in
science of Melbourne Uni., has won a scholar-
ship awarded by the Commonwealth Council
for Scientific and Industrial Research. This
entitles her to two years’ research work
abroad, and she will specialise in plant
diseases, studying probably at Rothamsted.
Charles Bryant, the marine painter,
stepped over the border from Sydney the
other day to make personal delivery of some
of his paintings for the Commonwealth War
Museum. His contributions to the Museum
gallery now number over 70. A show of
the work of Australian war artists is to be
held in the Exhibition towards the end of
next month.
Mrs. Maurice Patkin, who has just re-
covered from an illness that followed a tour
of the Orient, was feted by the Women’s
Auto Club one afternoon last week, and Dr.
J. W. Springthorpe’s wife, who has just
got back from Europe, was given a welcome
at the same time. President Mrs. H. J.
Robertson, who was hostess, handed a posy
to each of the travellers.
Judge Billy Williams and his wife are
entertaining extensively at their St. Kilda-
road house now that Babe, their only
daughter, has returned home. She has been
touring with the Gilbert and Sullivan
Opera Company for 12 months. • Her well-
trained voice—she was a Uni. Con. student
—and dramatic ability have enabled her
to make good progress, and she has a further
engagement ahead of her.
The Peter Gawthornes have crossed to Syd-
ney. On the eve of the journey the ever-
green Bibron gave the actor a farewell supper
and dance as a tribute to Gawthorne’s Sliak-
spearean efforts. The table was gay with
spring blossoms, and Mrs. Gawthorne played
hostess.
The 'R. H. Morton couple are beginning
to believe that there’s something in the
theory that 13 is an unlucky number.
While they were away in Europe his busi-
ness premises in Flinders-lane were destroyed
on the 13th day of the month. They
had only been back a few weeks when a
blaze at Ardoch flats, again on the 13th, left
their Lancia car a charred wreck.
The Archie Curries, with daughter Kath-
leen, are back from an overseas wander. The
party returned by way of Canada, and after
looking once more upon the family acreage
they settled down in town.


seconds!
Out
in 90
The oil fire depicted above occurred
in Holland, and was extinguished in
1 \ minutes with Firefoam. It is
typical of many conflagrations which
more and more frequently bring home
the fact that all fires are not alike, and
that apparatus which affords excellent
protection for one risk may be quite
useless for another. ,
The Foamite Method of Fire Pro-
tection is of proved efficiency, even in
the case of outbreaks involving the
most inflammable spirits; also quickly
and effectively smothers out any
ordinary fire.
Send the coupon now to either of
the addresses given below, when a
copy of the free booklet entitled
“Extinguishing Oil and Other Fires,”
containing full particulars of Foamite
(Firefoam), Firespray (Soda-acid)
and Fire-Gun (Carbon tetrachloride)
appliances, will be sent to you. All
these appliances are approved by the
Fire Underwriters’ Associations.
Send copy of Booklet, “Extinguishing Oil and
Other Fires,” to; —
Name
Address
BEDLAM PACKING AGENCY
(AUSTRALIA), LTD.,
37 Sussex Street, Sydney.
GEORGE DOWNER & CO.,
Henty House,
499 Little Collins Street, Melbourne.
ATKINS (W.A.), LTD.,
894 Hay Street, Perth.
MATTHEWS FIRE ALARM, LTD.,
City Buildings,
Edward Street, Brisbane, Q.
CLAUDE H. SMITH & CO.,
189 Gawler Place, Adelaide, S.A.
Foamite Fire
Protection
A Complete Engineering
Service
Against Fire.
TWENTY-FOURTH REPORT OF
PERDRIAU RUBBER
COMPANY, LIMITED
TO BE PRESENTED TO THE MEMBERS AT THE ORDINARY
GENERAL MEETING TO BE HELD ON 29th SEPTEMBER, 1927.
The Directors submit to the Members a Balance Sheet showing the
Liabilities and Assets of the Company on 30th June, 192 7, and a
Statement of Profit and Loss Account for the year ended 30th June,
192 7, and present the following report:—
The balance at the credit of Profit and Loss Account
brought forward is . . . . *. . . . . . £11,805 12 10
This, added to the Net Profit for the year, after Depreciation 183,181 2 9
Makes a total of . . .. .. .. .. .. £194,980 15 7
During the year the Directors paid to the Members hold-
ing Ordinary Shares in the Company’s capital the
sum of • • • • • • • • • • • • £48,392 10 1
And dividends on 50,000 First Preference Shares at
the fixed rate of 7 per cent, per annum, and divi-
dends on 100,000 Second Preference Shares at the
fixed rate of 8 per cent, per annum, amounting to 11,500 0 0
Making a total of .. . • •. • ■ • • • • 59,892 10 1
Leaving a balance available of .. .. •• •• £135,093 19 6
Out of which the Directors recommend the following:—
To Transfer to General Reserve . . . . .. £50,000 0 0
„ Payment of a Dividend of Is. 6d. per share on
Fully-paid Ordinary Shares . . .. .. 00,333 18 0
„ Payment of a Dividend of 44d. per share on
Contributing Shares, and payment in accordance
with the terms of issue of such shares of 1 per
cent., equalling 9 pence per share on the uncalled
Capital, making the total payments on account of
Contributing Shares 5.4 pence per share .. 11,312 11 10
Balance carried forward. . .. .. • • • • 13,447 9 8
£135,093 19 6
HENRY PERDRIAU, Chairman.
BALANCE SHEET as at 30th June, 1927.
LIABILITIES.
Capital Issued. . £1,457,234 0 0
Less 15/- per
share uncalled
o li 502,782
Ordinary Shares 377,086 10 0
£1,080,117 10
Sundry creditors .. .. .. 349,376 15
(ieneral reserve.. 12,942 8 7
Machinery an d
plant reserve. 25,000 0 0
37,942 8
Profit and loss. . 194,986 15 7
Less Interi m
Dividends .. 59,892 16 1
135,093 19
0
2
7
6
£1,602,560 13 3
ASSETS.
Stock.. .. .. ..
Freehold, Property
and • Buildings,
etc. .. . . £230,968 13 9
Machinery, Tools
and Plant, less
Depreciation . . 376,136 18 9
F u r n i t u r e and
Fittings .. 11,248 7 6
Goodwill
Sundry Debtors, less provision for
bad and doubtful debts
Insurance unex-
pired .. .. 3,691 15 10
Cash in Hand . . 691 16 0
£695,804 2 2
618.354 0 0
15,000 0 0
269,018 19 3
4,383 11 10
£1,602,560 13 3
We hereby certify that we have examined the Books and Vouchers of Perdriau Rubber Company.
Limited, and find that this Balance-sheet exhibits the true position of their business affairs, as shown
by the books, and is, in our opinion, a correct statement of the affairs of the Company. We have
accepted the certificate of the General Manager for the amount of stock on hand.
KENT, BRIEItLEY & SULLY,
Sydney, 16th September, 1927. Public Accountants,
Auditors.
PROFIT AND LOSS ACCOUNT
for the Year Ended 30th June, 1927.
1927.
June 30 —To Balance .. ..£135,093 19 6
£135,093 19 6
..£100,238 17 1
1926.
June 30- —By Balance
Less Appropriations:—
To Machinery and
Plant Reserve .. £25,000 0 0
To make the divi-
dend for the year
on the amount
paid up on Ordi-
nary Shares equal
to 124 per cent,
per annum .. 63,433 4 9
88,433 4 9
£11,805 12 10
1927.
June 30 —By net
profit for the year £183,181 2 9
Less Interim Divi-
dends paid by the
Directors during
the year.. .. 09,892 16 1
123,288 6 8
£135,093 19 6
Audited and found correct, KENT, BRIERLEY & SULLY, Public Accountants, Auditors, Sydney,
16th September, 1927.


JgSi BUILD WITHMIk
fPura&esm
Build an everlasting Home, by using Durabestos
(the Wunderlich asbestos-cement Sheeting) to
line the Exterior and Interior Walls. This material
cannot burn nor rot. It is cheaper than
timber, and does not need painting.
Stocked by leading suppliers of build-
ing materials. Write us
for free booklet D. 4.
WUNDERLICH LTD.
Baptist Street, Red fern
Sydney
A
r,n
-
f
M
•1 -
\
Model 330
HAMMERLESS
Double-Barrel
Shotgun
. 12 ga., . 16 ga.,
.20 ga., .410 ga.
Large, powerful
extractor,
automatic
safety, take-
down frame,
finelycheck-
ered stock
and fore-
arm, full
pistol-
grip*
You Can Be Sure!
With the years of experience in making every
type of fire-arm, you can be sure that every
Stevens Shotgun is going to give you long, accu-
rate, satisfying service. With the economical ad-
vantages of manufacturing in tremendous quan-
tities, you can also be sure that Stevens gives you
values unequalled by any other fire-arm.
The No. 330 Stevens Hammerless Shotgun, a
recent model, fully incorporates all the superiority
that this company can build into a gun. You will
be amazed at its reasonable price, at its smooth-
ness of action, its beauty of appearance. Barrels
are carefully bored and choked. Chrome Vana-
dium Steel working parts.
Exclusive Representative for Australia and New Zealand
ASHER SMITH, LTD., P. o. Box 966, Sydney, N. S. W.
J. STEVENS ARMS CO.
Export Offices: 100 East 42nd Street, New York, U.S. A.
. Owners of Page-Lewis Arms Co.
Owned and operated by Savage Arms Corp.
Missing Friends.
W ILL anyone knowing the whereabouts of LABAN
MILLFIELD CLARK communicate with his
brother ARCHIE CLARK, Kyogle, or G. B. SOMER-
VILLE, Solicitor, Lismore.
“THE WOMAN’S MIRROR.”
PRICE 3d.
Contains everything a woman needs to know.
Paint
iiour
Car
with
ISISi
8
RIPOUN
- PAINT
Ripolin Motor Enamel is the Most Wonderful
Automobile Finish which has yet been produced
It has qualities which have caused it to be known everywhere as the finest Enamel
made. Measured over the life of an Automobile, Ripolin is the most economical
Enamel to use for Motor-car finishing. Ripolin is easy to apply, and anyone can use
it RIPOLAC VARNISH is a really excellent Varnish of the Ripolin quality.
If wanted for application over Ripolin state whether for use over light or dark shades.
RIPOLIN DOES NOT REQUIRE POLISHING.
The Colors are Permanent and will not rub off.
White and a large variety of shades procurable from practically all stores.
WRITE FOR COLOR-CARD, BOOKLET AND ALL PARTICULARS TO
L. A. CORMACK (Factory Rep.),
4 Underwood Street (off 35 Pitt Street), SYDNEY.
INTERSTATE AGENTS: BRISBANE .. S. Squires &Co
SB” : y^M?rrc. pty pty“x:td. tfracSoH ;
The Little Sisters
Lennon's Hotel
BRISDANE
The Centre of Queenslands
Distinguished Sociel Life!
QUEENSLAND.
Brisbane.
Our trains are running like greased light-
ning over the delighted rails, and Brisbane
lias gone back to toil like a humbled or
satisfied giant according to one’s own inter-
pretation of the matter. People are beginning
to say that they always knew McCormack
was a strong man, and a procession of dis-
satisfied persons with banners was rained
upon by an unappreciative Heaven.
It was cold for Saturday’s races and
everyone stuck to winter coats. Mrs. Isaac
Moore gave a party on the committee-room
verandah. Mrs. N. A. H. Campbell was in
grey cloth with a cream hat; Mrs. Cadeil
Garrick was wrapped in mole furs; Mrs.
J. L. Woolcock chose grey with amber and
green; Mrs. Monte Luke, Sydney, wore
mastic; Mrs. Stanley Chapman wore a black-
satin coat and grey furs over navy and
white; and claret, with touches of snake-
skin, was featured by Mrs. E. K. Tully.
The Mayor has lent the Girls’ old Normal
School for the purposes of Authors’ Week,
and the committee is busy with plans for
advertising, lectures in schools, exhortations
in favor of the Australian author from pul-
pits, and programmes of amusements and
edification for the evening sessions from
October 17 to 23. Admission to the exhibi-
tion will be free.
B. Ashton Murphy, son of the Ashton
Murphy whom Bulletin readers know by
both pen and pencil, was married recently
in All Saints’ Church to Alary Shackleford,
who wore satin beaute with lace underdress
and silver broideries. Jessie Shackleford, in
turquoise blue, and Gladys Willis, in floral
crepe de Chine, maided.
Another wedding of the week has been that
of Gwenda Johnstone to Lewis Finney. An
arch of asparagus fern and pink roses, with
a wedding bell, decked the church, and the
bride wore ivory, satin and a Brussels-lace
veil. Agnes
Finney and
Mollie Evers,
in pink mari-
ette, were the
attenda n t
maids. Betty
Strapford was
t r a i n-bearer
in pink.
The bride is
the younger
daughter o f
the J. John-
stone s, of
Windfeor— her
father was
Mayor of Red-
cliffe—and the
’groom is a
grandson o f
Tom Finney,
whom every-
body knew in
the earlier
days of BrisDane. ueaziey made this picture
of the bride.
Wedding-bells rang in St. John’s Cathe-
dral, too, when Cyril Mclntyre married Elsie
Roberts. The bride wore a French model
dress of white mariette soutached with irides-
cent and crystal beads. Her veil was of pink
silk Mechlin net. She wore a tiara of pearls.
Alma Barry, Joan Paine, Marie Harding and
Bonnie Robinson were ’maids, in orchid-
mauve, with Dutch caps of pink lace.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA.
Adelaide.
The Victoria League conference ended to
make way for the corroborees of the National
Council of Women and W.C.T.U., and the
air is heavy with schemes for reform. In
these later councils there is more speech-
making than- merry-making, but the N.C.W.
prefaced its deliberations with an evening'
frivol at the Wentworth, at which our own
president, Mrs. T. R. Bowman, and the
Federal one, Mrs. D. A. Skene, did the
honors. There was tea-drinking under the
Mayoress’s hospitable wing at the Town Hall,
and there have been lunches innumerable,
mostly small and informal.
Whether it be the lure of the feminine,
or the scoldings of Melba, it’s hard to say,
but we can’t be as bitterly reproached for
our neglect of Alda as we were for our
neglect of Friedman. But Alda’s dressing
is attraction enough; all artistry and voice
apart. Black and silver, almost masked by
an enormous feather fan; flame color and
silver, almost eclipsed by another fan; gleam-
ing pearls and flashing diamonds and emer-
alds —these are items of her stage furnishing.
Though she deplores a waning in popular
taste she is shrewd enough to give “popular”
programmes.
The English-Speaking Union put some
more cement on its entente the other even-
ing. when Clive Carey mingled Kentucky
ballads with old English folk-songs, and
there was a word or two from Judge Parsons,
who came back from the Old Dart across
Uncle Sam’s domain, and is all for the
Union.
,Clare, most festive of our country towns,
has been having an. “animal week-end,”
inspired by a committee that includes Mrs.
Christenson. There were dances, golf and
picnics. The S.P.C.A. gets the proceeds.
The Dick Hawkers, who have been winter-
ing here, have booked early passages for
England, and there were good-byes the
other afternoon at the home of her sister,
Airs. W. T. Mortlock. Guests included a
big sprinkling of Hawker and Tennant rela-
tions.
Victor Harbor has been combining busi-
ness with pleasure, too, to get funds for
building a Girl Guides’ hall on land given
by C. W. Bowman. Lady Bridges went
with Mrs. Armstrong to give the fete her
benediction and to say her good-byes to one
of her crack companies. There were more
good-byes at the Girl Guides’ annual meet-
ing a day or two later, voiced by Mrs. Keith
Bowman and Mayor Bruce.
WESTRALIA.
Perth.
The wedding of last week was that of
Dorothy Milner to Reg Forsaith. She has
been a lecturer in Zoology at Perth Uni. for
some years, having graduated with first-class
honors in 1923. The wedding-gown came
from Paris and scintillated with pearls,
silver and crystal, on net, over white satin
beaute. Mrs. Forsaith arrived from Bris-
bane to be oresent at her son’s wedding.
Mayoress Franklin entertained citizen-
esses the other afternoon before going for a
holiday, and the mayoral chambers were
filled with frills, flowers, chatter and tea.
Perth women gave a hearty welcome to
Mrs. Bessie Rischbieth, J.P., after an
absence of some months in the Eastern
States. The guest of honor gave an account
of her activities at a reception at the
Women’s Service Guild. Mrs. Le Souef
shared in the greetings.
Doro t h y
Mark, who is
a gold medal-
list of the
London Col-
lege of Music
and one of
our most tal-
ented amateur-
actresses, i s
pictured here
b y Thelma.
She won a n
e 1 o c utionary
contest in
London a
couple of years
ago and since
her return to
Perth has
played Shaks-
pearean roles
with a great
deal o f suc-
cess.
Mrs. Walter Clarke returned from a six
months’ trip to England yesterday, leaving
only daughter Kay in London for another
six months, as the guest of Mrs. Richard
Hardey.
Mollie Skinner, who wrote “Black Swans,”
“The Boy in the Bush” and other books, has
returned to Leithdale, that charming rest
house in the Darlington Hills. Her pen is
still busy, the work now in hand being “Men
Are We,” a series of sketches of aboriginal
life.
TASMANIA.
Hobart.
The ball in aid of disabled soldiers and
their dependants held at the City Hall might
have been better attended than it was, but
the crowd numbered 200, and everyone had
a good time. His Ex. and Margaret O’Grady
patronised the show.
We all went to the dogs last week when
the Kennel Club held its show. There were
scores of Scottish terriers, which are very
popular here at present, and a lot of grey-
hounds, possibly a reflex of the “tin hare”
enterprises. The first pair of Alsatians im-
ported into Tasmania were on show, and
there have been gloomy prophecies as to what
will happen if they increase and multiply.
They are said to be very wolfish.
Premier Lyons opened a big hospital fair
at Campbell Town, at which the whole dis-
trict rolled up, and thousands of shillings
rolled in. The ladies’ committee, represented
by Mrs. David Taylor, presented the Pre-
mier with a blackwood walking-stick, in-
scribed with his name and the date,, as a
remembrance of his first visit to the district.
John Gellibrand and his lady invited mem-
bers of the Women’s Division of the National
Federation to meet Neville Howse at tea at
the Imperial. About 70 guests sat down.
The Gellibrand lady, in brown, with a bunch
of gold in her hat. did the honors, and the
chief guest spoke brightly and humorously.
The City Hall was gay with daffodils when
the Amateur Horticultural Society held its
spring show. A fine effect was obtained by
exhibiting masses of delicate creamy blossoms
in large copper bowls.
NORTHERN TERRITORY.
Darwin.
The Victoria League farewelled its former
president, Mrs. Playford, and her husband at
a progressive bridge party. Prizes were won
by Miss Reade, grand-daughter of the guest
of honor, Sister Rutherford of the local hos-
pital and the Administrator, whose wife is
the president of the league. Supper and a
dance rounded off a very enjoyable evening.
Recuperating here after a nervous break-
down is Father Quirk, of St. Peter’s. Mel-
bourne. He has benefited greatly by his visit
and has decided to prolong his stay. He
is the guest of Mr. and Mrs. Wynne-
Williams, Myilly Point.
The Darwin-Katherinc road has been
called the worst in Australia, but a Darwin
resident the other day made the trip to
Katherine —about 200 miles —in a motor-
truck, with about 15cwt. aboard, in 121
hours. So it can’t be as bad as some people
say.
Great interest is being taken in the races
to be held here at the end of this month.
This year most of the events are for locally-
bred horses and entries have never been so
large. Several locally-bred polo ponies have
lately been sold for export to Penang—the
N.T. is getting quite a reputation in that
line.
Five nominations have been received for
two seats on the advisory council: A. R.
Grady and W. T. Pearce, both of Marran-
boy; Dr. F. Harden, a new arrival; D. C.
Watts, Mayor of Darwin, and W. J. Young,
who once unsuccessfully contested the North-
ern Territory seat. This election is locally
regarded as more or less of a farce. If the
three Commissioners and the Government
Resident are unable to formulate a method of
governing North Australia the addition of an
unpaid advisory council isn’t likely to help
matters much.


Amusements.
F M P I R E THEATRE,
*“ Railway Square, adjoining Saunders’ Corner,
in Quay Street, Sydney.
Rufe Naylor lias the honor to present
2/6 THE STUDENT PRINCE 5/6
By arrangement with J. J. and Lee Shubert,
of New York.
NIGHTLY, 7.45 SHARP.
Reserves at Theatre (M.A. 1000), Nicholson’s,
Paling’s, Hotel Australia, Usher’s, Carlton, Samuel’s.
Matinees Wednesday and Saturday at 2.
Theatre Box Office Hours; 9 to 3, 4 to 9.
SYD N E Y’S CHIEF THEATRES.
J. C. WILT.TAMSON, LTD., present
HER MAJESTY’S: lOLANTHE.
CRITERION: OUR WIFE.
ROYAL: THE RINGER.
RICKARDS’ TIVOLI THEATRES.
Lessees: Harry Rickards’ Tivoli Theatres, Ltd.
MELBOURNE and SYDNEY.
TWICE EVERY DAY—2.3O and 8.
CELEIIRITY VAUDEVILLE.
The World’s Best.
J C. W 1 LLI AMSO N, LTD.,
MELBOURNE ATTRACTIONS.
HIS MAJESTY’S:
MADAME POMPADOUR.
KING’S THEATRE:
CRADLE SNATCHERS.
THEATRE ROYAL: TIP TOES.
ATHEN At U M THEA I R IA
MELBOURNE.
Proprietor: Frank Talbot Ptv., Ltd.
Lessee: E. J. Carroll.
Commencing, SATURDAY, SEPTEMBER 24.
E.' J. Carroll presents the thrilling play,
THE LAST WARNING.
Rich in Comedy—Full of Mystery and Romance.
Plans at Allan’s.
IVI A.JESTIC THEATRE. MELBOURNE.
“One of the Union Theatres.”
PATSY RUTH MILLER in
HELL BENT FER HEAVEN.
ALSO
OLIVE TELL in
SLAVES OF BEAUTY.
A Fox Production.
Box Plan at Allan’s and Theatre. ’Phone 7076 & 7790.
Ho Y T’S D E LUXE THEATRE
MELBOURNE.
CONRAD NAGEL and RENE ADOREE in
HEAVEN ON EARTH.
ALSO
BARE COMES HOME,
With BABE RUTH.
Prices as usual.
A UD E T< >RI UM, MELBOURNE.
Direction J. and N. Tait.
JOSEPH HIST OP, World-famous Tenor.
First Concert: SATURDAY, SEPTEMBER 24.
Also, Tuesday, 27th; Thursday, 29th.
Box Plan at Allan’s.
MALTHOID
Floor Covering'
Extra thickness and extraordinary
durability are both provided by this
fabric.
Extra Heavy Malthoid is used on
floors in homes, offices, schools, hospi-
tals, warehouses, etc. Rolls contain
3ft. x 75ft. —25 sq. yds. Colors,
Grey and Red. Price per roll: Grey,
53/6, equivalent to 2/2 per sq. yd.
Red, 78/6, equivalent to 3/2 per
sq. yd.
Samples post free from
The Paraffine Companies, Inc.,
Post Box 454 FF, Sydney.
Keep hopping and hoping if you wish
to succeed —
• THINK OF
ĥ
' SCHUTE,
BELL Sc Cua.
if you have
Wool & Skins
to Sell.
Persona! Attention.
Offices: 44 Bridge Street, Sydney.
ULL/S
WATCHES
SOLD BY
ALL QUALITY
JEWELLERS
Missing Friends.
TOHN MURPHY, of Chillagoe and Selwyn,
J Queensland, write T. QUINN, Blight Street,
Ridleyton Blocks, Ilindmarsh. S. Australia.
HEIRS WANTED.
WANTED.—NICHOLAS QUINN, son of
James Quinn and Bridget Lourie, or
children of said Nicholas Quinn.
Said Nicholas Ouinn resided Avith his
parents at or near Tubber, in the County of
Clare, Ireland, and emigrated to Australia
about fifty years ago.
Replies to be forwarded by post addressed
WILLIAM IJEALY, County Registrar,
Court House, Ennis, County Clare, Ireland.
'UtanrftalL
&h&e&
FOR MEN
For the man who cares
there is no Shoe like
these and no better time
to find it out than now.
MANY STYLES
32/6 to 50/-
Polish and Preserve
with
Marinated
MS 106
SHOE CREAM
In Jars, I'6
• Also
In Tubes In Bottles
I'3 I'3
Famous n , _
Bathing
Murdoch’s
“Surfo”
Costumes
One-piece pure wool, black with
colored bands of red, white or royal.
Sizes, 32, 34 and 30 inches.
Postage Free. Write to Desk R.
MURDOCH’S IN PARR ST. LTD., SYDNEY
In
aseline
fsggggS^
Vaseline
TRADE MARK
PETROLEUM JELLY
TO SOOTHE BURNS
Cover burned area with
“Vaseline” Jelly spread
on clean linen or gauze.
Change dressing daily.
Soothing, healing, helps
prevent scars. Good for
all minor skin ailments.
Look for the Trade Mark “Vaseline”
It is your protection
Chesebrough Mfg. Co. Cons’d
New York London Montreal
RUPTURE
ROOK” No man or woman wno is
UUUI\ Ruptured can afford to be
Pprr without this valuable book,
JT IV Hi • “'fhe Modern Treatment and
Cure of Rupture.” It will explain exactly
what Rupture is, its causes, its dangers,
how in every instance complete Comfort
and Security can unfailingly be obtained,
and how in many cases even a radical
Cure is effected.
Don’t be misled and think this impossible
because you have oeen told so, or because
you have been discouraged and tortured
by old-fashioned and primitive Trusses,
which have proved useless.
This Book tells you of a Modern —a Newer
and Better way.
IT IS WORTH ITS WEIGHT IN GOLD,
AND IT IS FREE; COSTS NOTHING.
Simply fill in and post to-day this
FREE COUPON
THE NEW 110USSEL HOLD-
FAST RUPTURE CO.,
Fay's Chambers, 61 Market Street,
Sydney, N.S.W. (one door from
Pitt Street).
Please send me, Post Free and
without obligation on my part,
your Free Book on Rupture.
NAME
FULL ADDRESS
STATE
(Please write plainly.) B.
Answers to Correspondents.
No notice (except of a hostile character) will be
taken of communications insufficiently stamped.
Name and address must appear on the MS. No
liability is undertaken re contributions volun-
tarily submitted; and no MS. will be returned
unless stamps accompany.
Irene T.: Hardly. What about trying a
simpler subject?. .. .Horton B.: Good yarn, if it
weren't so prolix. And you get on your high stilts
occasionally... .J.J.D.: We buried a team in the
ruts on that road. .. .P.J.R.: Some humor, but it
wants heavily pruning. .. .A.J.H., W. Sab., Noia:
Only crashed on the final reading.... Dan D.: The
ownership of the millinery was never in doubt....
Adrien A.: Nice, but needs more polish... .M.L.L.:
“In trafficking to mingle” is a dreadful line....
Chas. C.: Plainly manufactured... .R. 8.5.: Promise
in it.. . .F.G.L.: Shy reference to ladies’ undergar-
mentn blushed its way out of the office.... Panto: A
joke idea that needs explanation condemns itself....
Steven W.: Sort of verse that thrills the lady, but
nobody else. ... R.T.N.: You ought to be able to tell
a real story... .John O.: Unsuitable... .H.M.W.: Not
enough story... .M.M.M.: You seem to “Oh!” every-
thing. Thank Heaven you don’t owe us for the
return postage... .C.B.McK.: And you did it!....
G.0.A.: “Fear” is nearly a good story... .A.W.D.:
“Mademoiselle from Armenti&res” has had too many
parodies... .Matt It.: Gory item... .G.V.K.: Abo.
hymn monotonous. .. .J.S.G.: Parson goes astray too
crudely Hal S.: There was literary reason for
“Hiawatha” —repetition of an Indian chant-measure.
Application to abo. subjects only makes poor parody.
. ...Kep: Prosaic stuff reeled off in correct periods
but dull rhyme... .H.N.L.: The end is too abrupt.
....Cam D.: Your cry of agony comes in here: —
He is dead and in his tomb,
No more cheerful seems the fire,
But all around it’s Tears and Gloom
Because I’ve lost my Jeremiah.
....Desmond I).: No, interesting, but not quite up.
....Mars: “Go to Father” has travelled the maga-
zines since The Bulletin was an infant. We don’t
want second-hand stuff, and, although accidents may
happen, the contributor who sends it in becomes sus-
pect. .. .E.F.G.: Such rhymes as “night”-“birthriglit”
show an ear in need of tuning... .H.N.S.: As a
definite play on names, it might have passed ; re-
build it on the idea in the last stanza. .. .W.W.A.:
The humor in “Cats” shows promise; but the affair
is a feeble meow. .. .Alban K.: Weak. .. . Juveno:
“Dirge” has a good idea inadequately treated....
W.E.S.: O’Jones is an irresponsible youth... .E.L.:
Says nothing and doesn’t say it we 11.... Servitor: If
you must use blank verse, you’ve got to make up
in rhythm what you lack in rhyme; and with rare
exceptions blanky verse writers don’t. .. .Hal S.: We
don’t rise to your bait; there’s too much of it....
Geo. S.: Improbable sort of yarn....B.C. (Glen
Innes) : Poor. Anything used is paid for. .. .Lemsee:
“The Pleasant Outing” made us tired. .. .Dcadwood:
No humor in the three corpses....R.A.C.: Dull
rhymed chronicle. . . .Alex. A.: Nothing in the dream
verse. .. .E.M.E. (Cumbalun) : The telling is rather
heavy. .. .Mary P.: “Droving” nearly drove us to
murder... .H.R.S.: Deadly earnest—very deadly....
Bellerive: Your wineglass is allowed its song:—
Poor and rich love me,
- Even ministers of grace.
Wide’s my influence o’er
The European race.
A small tumbler am I
Number one of a row
Upon a shelf o’er the casks
Where the grape juice flow.
High to their lips
By patrons I’m raised;
I’m quaffed and refilled,
Toasted and praised;
I’m clinked by revellers as
The fleeting years pass;
I reign supreme though
I’m but a wineglass.
. ...C.D.: “The Line” is length without depth.
... .M.J.W.: No value... .L.L.C.: All weakly worked.
. ...N.Y.: So you painted all that joyousness merely
to spill a corpse into the last line!.... Gillian:
Remote chance, on present indications. .. .E.W.J.:
Nicely told sob-story, but unreal... .T.D.V.: What
do you mean by “Cajole attentions upon a girl” ?
. ...W.H.L.: The model wife will have to stay at
home.... Jumbo: Some signs; but very rough as yet.
... .E.S.H.E.: A good idea —why all the preamble?
.... Una C.: The last four lines could be given a
better turn... .H.W.G.: The word isn’t “re-al-ize.”
. ...Barmae: Overwrought sarcasm... .H.S.: The
lung-trouble prospector finishes with an old wheeze.
... .A.R.: Nearly... .R.F.M.: That “spring” has
been sprung before... .G. 8.5,: A spasm of your
patriotic outburst: —
Australia fairly in the Future floats.
In spite of politicians, goats,
And such diseases,
It flaunts the breezes.
And any patriot takes by the throats
All those who at her sneezes.
Thou holds the wine of Freedom free,
Thou crystal goblet of the Sea!
. ...Maeve: Something could be made of it....
lI.C. J.: No immortality to be found in those lines.
... .W.J.T.H.: “Wavelets” merely ripples... .G.L.M.:
ft’;: quite certain you don’t always know what you
want to say, although you try heroically to say it.
....E.J.P.: “One Evening” is a dull affair....
Alastor: Nothing in the heartless trick... .R.0.C.:
It's certainly original.... See Saw: Whatever it may
be, it isn’t verse.... M.D. (Box Hill): Samples are
poor. ... J.E.C.: They don’t quite strike, but are
very nearly right. .. .Hugh G. M.: No spirit in your
“Waters”... .R.B. : The concert is an ordinary affair.
. ...Camjlen: Freedom would shriek if your “Kos-
ciusko” fell into The Bulletin. .. .R.H.O’N.: Sorry;
too crude. .. .L.P.J.: The only thing capital about
it is the typing. .. .8.W.: Why not simplify your
style?. .. .P.M.: No sun of hope shines “East of
Tatong”... .L.C.T.: We’re glad to hear that the
bird’s babes are “fed on the best,” but the verse is
awful E.R.M.: The “Boss” was booted down
stairs.... Finn: But the N.S.W. Act doesn’t protect
honeysuckle and tea-tree. It doesn’t even protect
ferns.. . .Cassandra: Already handled... .Scrab: Lacks
the supreme virtue of sincerity... .G.McK. : All
depends on why you want to spray them. Be more
explicit. . . .W.P.D. and others: Discussion of “Why
Sheep Die in Millions” might be continued for ever,
but space won’t allow it R. J. 0.: Thank you, but
quite impossible. . . .Merri the W.: The B. first
met those frogs over 20 years ago.
TO ARTISTIC (AND INARTISTIC)
CORRESPONDENTS.
E.S.: “The Sands of Time” ran out H.E.C.:
You' will onlv catch crabs with that ciude style. ...
E.J.P.: Tin-hare urger (faintly • resembling railway
signal) ejected A.F.8.: Conversazione in a mine
shaft left undisturbed J.L.: Dave and the immi-
grant were handed their pass-out check eaily in
the piece J.A.P.: The humor is thin, and we
want something more than mere outlines... .1.M.:
Your covering letter raised hopes which were not
fulfilled D.T.J.: We’d feel neglected if that rotten-
egg gag didn’t turn up now there’s an election on.
0.D.: So you took a trip out back to get in-
spiration for your sketch. You wasted the train fare.
THE INKY WAY.
“P.X.” : After reporting that it has a cir-
culation of from 160,000 to 178,000 —the
Saturday output reaches the latter figure—
the S. M. Herald smugly adds that it relies
on its “quality as a newspaper and is in no
way dependent upon competitions, free insur-
ance or other circulation-making devices.”
What is news? If it includes advertise-
ments, the Herald’s statement is quite
true ; tens of thousands of its sales are the
result of its ads.—Government and legal, as
well as “wants” and ordinary commercial. '
Considering its unique position the Herald
is really a provincial and mean paper.
For instance, the fact that The Bulletin
was encouraging the production of novels in
Australia by offering a minimum of £l5OO
in prizes in three years was news. But the
Small Minded Herald didn’t notice it be-
cause, if it did so, it would have to mention
the name of another paper. It sometimes
thinks of itself as the Australian Times.
It will have to get a larger size in souls
before the description will fit.
“S.M.” : The distant author looks rich, bat
lie seldom is. Jerome Klapka Jerome was
an outstanding literary figure with over 30
popular works to his credit, and he pur-
sued .journalism as well. He latelv passed
out, aged 68, leaving £5478, so he did better
than the average.
“Graeme”: A freelance of my acquaint-
ance has struggled into possession of a car.
Now he appraises the results of his toil, in
terms of petrol. “How’s things?” I asked.
“Good-oli!” he chirped; “I got 54 gallons
into Tiie Bully last week.”
“Regnis”: I bought my first copy of
The Bulletin in Bundaberg (Q.) on
September 26, 1882, and have missed only
three issues since. During the 45 years 1
have lived in Bundaberg, Childers, Cairns,
Cliillagoe, Einasleigh, Georgetown, Kidston
and Gordonvale. In all my peregrinations
the pink cover never failed to find me, how-
ever remote my camp was from the p.-o.
“V.H.R.”: There is talk of converting
Launceston (Tas.) Daily Telegraph into
an evening paper, following recent develop-
ments in the camp of the rival Examiner.
The D.T. has had a struggle for existence,
but has battled along with the aid of
loyal advertisers. Possibly Launceston
could support an evening paper, but Hobart,
twice the size, lias never managed it. The
last post-meridian sheet at the capital proved
a costly experiment for News, Ltd., J. E.
Davidson’s company. The co., by the way,
transferred the Hobart staff to Perth and
the plant to Broken Hill; and at both places
it is doing well.
“Up North” : The cocoanut plantation at
the top end of Australia where Jack
McLaren wrote “My Crowded Solitude” is
now in a lamentable state. Most of the
trees have been burned by busli-fires; forest
and jungle are swallowing the rest. Such
of the homestead as still stands has become
a handy camp for McLaren’s one-time dusky
friends, who amuse themselves by trying
to get melody out of what remains of the
piano. The famous avenues are grass-
grown; the banana plants are no more; and
bucks and bandicoots have eaten-out the
garden.
“Tuart” : The dispute between the West
Australian proprietary and its mechanical
staff flared up again last week, and before
it was settled the West. Daily News, Call
and Truth had brought out a composite
paper. It was a four-pager, five columns
wide and bore the titles of the journal de-
clared “black” and of those which espoused
its cause. The publication will be an in-
teresting addition to the treasures preserved
in all four offices, particularly Truth’s.
“The Pariah” : As Amalgamated Wireless
has recalled, it was in August, 1920, that
Fisk gave the first demonstration of broad-
casting in Australia, and the third in the
world. I was the only pressman among the 97
people present at the Royal Society’s Hall,
Sydney, and my orders were for a column.
But the chief sub. had a juicy murder, and
little space, so only a par. appeared in the
first edition. There was a howl from higher
up, and I had to write that column again. I
wonder how many of the 97, Fisk included,
foresaw the developments of the next seven
years. Certainly that chief sub. did not.
■ He is now in the broadcasting business him-
self, and doing well.
“H..T.”: Photographic medallions of the
leading figures and politicians involved in
the opening of Parliament at Canberra are
to be preserved in that city. The souvenirs
are the result of an invention for which
Fred Monteith, a Bulletin photo-engraver,
takes the blame. A gelatine preparation thinly
spread over an ordinary photographic plate
swells in reaction to the effect of the hign
lights and shades of the photograph; and a
cast can be taken which gives in a small
way the effect of bas-relief in sculpture.
Each of the medallions is a little work of
art.
“C.Q.” : Talking of Authors’ Week, who is
Australia’s best-seller? I nominate "Bleeds”
Fitcliett. Up to 1913 he had sold 627,5- >
copies of his books. The figures since are
not available, but they must now be near
the million. Incidentally, Fitchett started by
contributing anonymously to the Argus.
Officials at the Melbourne Public Library
observed the industrious parson _ making
notes and by comparing his choice in books
with the articles discovered his secret. Fit-
chett probably found in the recounting of
these deeds of blood a necessary relief from
the job of running a Methodist Ladies’ Col-
lege.
“Simon”: Many Inky Wayfarers show
enterprise and adaptability off their usual
track. P. Lussich, who ran a hustling Sydney
suburban sheet for many years, now has his
shingle out at Rabaul as an accountant and
auditor, and does a thriving business with
the planters and traders of the Mandated
Territory.
“C.Q.”: Vic. Railways Commissioner
Clapp is the luckiest editor on the Inky
Way. His Railways Magazine boasts of a
circulation of 32.000, but as 31,130 copies
are distributed free it doesn’t seem much
to boast about. The annual loss is £BOOO.


New South Wales Needs
Sound and Honest Government
“Ever since you have been in office you have
been passing legislation which directly or in-
directly has had the effect of adding to the burdens
of the primary producer. ”
—MR. BAVIN, Leader of Opposition, in Parliament.
“The Lang Government is worse than a Drought to
the Country.”
MR. T. I. CAMPBELL, President, Farmers & Settlers’ Association.
THE LANG MISRULE has resulted in—
INCREASED TAXATION.— -The first complete year of the Lang Government ( 1926) resulted in
taxation being increased by 5/- per head of the population. In income taxation alone,
Mr. Lang took £7,859,654 last year, which was £2,385,197 more than the collections
for the previous year. This increase represents an additional £1 per head for each
. man, woman and child in the State.
RAILWAY FREIGHTS RAlSED.—Railway freights were increased by at least 10 per cent., thus
considerably adding to the cost of transporting goods, particularly primary products.
As Mr. Loughlin said last November: The country people to-day are taking more than
their fair share of the burden of making our railway system pay.”
NEGLECT OF ROADS.—Mr. Lang prevented £1,500,000 being spent on the roads in New South
Wales this year. First by delaying to subscribe to the Federal Aids Roads agreement
and secondly by filching £500,000 that was raised in motor taxation and ear-marked
for the main Roads Board.
LACK OF RAILWAYS.—OnIy two country railway lines were started by the Lang Government
during 1926, and these were initiated by the Nationalist Government before it left
office in 1925. This is the worst record of any Government for the past 25 years.
EDUCATION NEGLECTED. —The Lang Government, recklessly extravagant in other directions,
cut down the amount of money on the loan estimates for school buildings and con-
struction requirements. Mr. Mutch, ex-Minister for Education, said in May, 1927:
“Last year, with hundreds of schools inadequately equipped, and with accommodation
which was deplorable and a disgrace to our community, out of a Loan Budget of
£1 1,316,000 I was given a paltry £156,000. That represents Mr. Lang’s idea of the
importance of education.”
MAKE SURE OF
SANE AND RESPONSIBLE GOVERNMENT.
ENSURE A SYMPATHETIC, HELPFUL, PROGRESSIVE POLICY.
VOTE and WORK FOR THE
RETURN ON OCTOBER 8 OF
Selected and Endorsed Nationalists.
ARCHDALE PARKHILL,
General Secretary, National Association of New South Wales.


~#i^
n, Tr
The Magic of Music —for Every Home
comes at its best with
WuRUIZER
•«« wt ©r»
PLAYER
PIANO
The highly sensitive player-action of the “Wurlitzer” enables you to express every mood—
gives you the technical equipment of the trained artist.
Basic soundness of construction ensures, too, the permanence of its tonal beauty. On view
at most high-class music stores. Easy terms may be arranged.
PRINCIPAL “WURLITZER” AGENTS:
NEW SOUTH WALES: Metropolitan Distributors—Coronola Sales, Ltd., Baking House, Rawson Place, Sydney.
NEWCASTLE: M. Light & Son, Ltd., Newcastle and Cessnock. .
SOUTH AUSTRALIA: The Australian Implement and House Furnishing Co., Adelaide.
WEST AUSTRALIA: Musgroves’ Ltd., Murray Street, Perth.
TASMANIA: Findlay’s Pty., Ltd., 63-65 George Street, Launceston.
VICTORIA: Myer’s Emporium Ltd., Melbourne.
Where any difficulty is experienced in procuring a “Wurlitzer" communicate direct with the factory representatives .*
Parker, Blau & Co., Ltd.,
8 O’CONNELL STREET. SYDNEY.
308 FLINDERS LANE, MELBOURNE.
SUNDRY SHOWS.
SYDNEY SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Heh Majesty's “lolanthe”
Criterion “Our Wife”
Royal “The Ringer”
Empire “The Student Prince”
Tivoli Vaudeville
M El. HO I'll NIC SHOWS KOI? COMING WEEK.
His Majesty's “Madame Pompadour”
King's “Cradle Snatchers”
Royal “Tip Toes”
ATHENiEUM “The Last Warning”
Auditorium Joseph Hislop
Tivoli Vaudeville
Majestic Moving Pictures
Hoyt's Moving Pictures
There is more mental stimulus than usual
in “Outward Bound,” staged at Sydney
Palace on Saturday; Sutton Vane has
worked his excursion into the mysteries of
after-death with a skill which allows play
for humor without interfering with the
gravity of the main theme. From the moment
the passengers begin to meet, as passengers
do meet, in the ship’s lounge—tliis is the
staging of the whole play—interest is gripped
by a sense of mystery, leading to the dis-
covery that they are all dead people being
ferried to their ultimate destination.
Charon’s boat has, amongst other conveni-
ences, by the way, a well-stocked bar. After
the discovery that they are all so-called dead
people the interest is maintained at high
tension by the reaction of their circum-
stances upon varying characters —they
range from a pompous financial magnate and
M.P., who regards his death as an unbe-
lievable insult, to a humble washerwoman
vho is “struck all of an ’eap.” A previous
generation shivered with horror when Wil-
son Barrett introduced into “The Sign of
the Cross” a flash of lightning and a thun-
derclap which represented the intervention
of the Deity; but this generation has out-
lived the habit of being horrified, and is only
thrilled by the roll of drums which indicates
the arrival of Judgment time. Too great a
shock, anyway, is avoided by having the
judging done by a deputy, a dead parson
who, as the Examiner, comes on board to
perform his duties in a nice white flannel
suit, but still wearing his clerical collar.
Sincere, weighty work by Peter Gawthorne
saves this part and gives to the unmasking
of the private lives of various of the charac-
ters an interest sustained to the very curtain
fall, when the fate of the pair of lovers
who attempted suicide in order to remain
together is, as a matter of fact, still unde-
cided.
❖ ❖ ❖ ❖
In the thoughtful production there is
opportunity for comedy in the development
of the idiosyncrasies and fears of the pas-
sengers ; and only here and there is there a
suspicion that things are being overdone, as
in the case of the flaming-haired Mrs. Clive-
den-Banks (Mildred Cottell). The play ran
for several weeks in Melbourne, but only
four of the Melbourne cast are in the Sydney
production, and two of the newcomers pro-
vide the best work this Showman remembers
from them. Ronald Ward is particularly
well suited as Prior, the youngster who has
tried to drown the sense of a wasted life in
whisky; while Reginald Wykeham blends
pomposity and fear admirably in his Lingley,
M.P. The best work of the piece, however,
is Emma Temple’s Mrs. Midget; in the last
act she produces some headthrobs of which
the best of old-fashioned dramas might be
envious. Zillali Bateman, with Ellis Irving,
lias to maintain the love interest in parts
intentionally hung in the background, but
they make good use of their opportunity in
the final scene. Laboring under difficulty of
late arrival for the cast. F. St. 11. Tellieoe
on the first night was sometimes astray in his
lines as the Rev. William Duke, but his
reading is satisfactory; and B. W. Lewin,
as Scrubby, the steward of the mystery boat,
is an impressive Charon, as well as an atten-
tive attendant to whom any mundane bar-
room would be glad to give double wages.
* * *
Nellie Bramley made a wise choice of “A
Little Bit of Fluff” to continue her season
at Sydney Grand Opera House; the bright
farce, which had a season of 1241 perform-
ances at its first production in London, gave
ample reason for that popularity at its
revival on Saturday. Of course, if John
Ayers, who lives happily on the money of a
remarkably complaisant wife, had not been
such a liar, the characters would not have
had to rush through three tangled acts; but
a lot of good fun would have been missed.
The said John Ayers, when his wife, on her
unexpected return home, finds a pearl neck-
lace in his pocket, thinks it necessary to
say that he had bought it as a present for
her; and as it had been lent to him by a
gay lady friend, to whom it had been like-
wise lent by an Indian rajah, there is em-
barrassment which Ayers tries to meet by
raising money out of a faked action for
damages against an omnibus company. The
farce calls for no serious acting, but Bert
Randall, whose “Johnnies” grow on the
fancy, deserves the sugared word for his
Bertram Tully, the obliging friend; Nellie
Bramley was bright as the amazingly sport-
ing wife; and Victor Ayres showed all the
signs of agitation natural to a perfidious
husband pursued by the hounds of his own
conscience. Marie Dalton, a maiden aunt
with the usual red flannel petticoat, and
John Galway, a businesslike ’bus inspector
of claims, did good work; and a sort of bal-
ance was struck between Mabel Gower
(Mamie Scott, the gay lady) and William
Raymond (the doctor) —the one over-acted
while the other stood fast and fired his lines.
* * * *
The tuneful “Gondoliers” having sung
themselves out of Sydney Majesty’s last Fri-
day, “Pirates of Penzance” rowed in on
Saturday; but yesterday afternoon “The
Yeomen of the Guards” drove them out
again. On Saturday “lolanthe” will give
Winifred Williamson a chance to tell how
she loves to dive into a dewdrop; “H.M.S.
Pinafore” will be given one night only on
Tuesday, and on Wednesday afternoon “The
Mikado” takes possession. But only until
Friday; on Saturday (October 1) “The
Chocolate Soldier” will push the Gilbert and
Sullivan operas aside.
* * * *
“The Student Prince” is due to give up the
Empire (Sydney) in a little over two weeks;
the stage is wanted for the adventures of
“Tweekie.” At the St. James’ “Lady, Be
Good” fulfils all present requirements. A
comedy lesson as beneficial to husbands as
to wives is being expounded in “Our Wife,”
at the Criterion by Margaret Lawrence
and Louis Bennison; and at the Royal “The
Ringer” has hit the popular taste for
mystery.
** * %
With the farewell concert of Joseph His-
lop at Sydney Town Hall last Saturday, the
procession of musical and vocal stars has
a lull, although Frances Alda was booked
to give a concert last night in aid of
the University Appeal Fund. An item of
interest for next Saturday is the first of a
series of three recitals which elocutionist
Lawrence Campbell is to give at the King’s
Hall. The others are to occur on Monday
and Wednesday.
*❖ * *
. Steele. Rudd’s “Romance of Runnibede”
is the sort of picture that will have an inter-
est in any part of the world ; and although
the story is not particularly strong, its
interest grips to the conclusion which fol-
lows fast upon the fight with the abos.—a
fight in which the love-contest between two
mutually-jealous but clean-liearted Aus-
tralians finds its solution in the death of one
of them in saving Eva Novak from her
danger.
** * *
Sean O’Casey’s “Juno and the Paycock”
finished its long run at the Sydney Playbox
this week, and Wedekind’s expressionistic
drama of youth, “Awakening of Spring,” will
take its place at the little Rowe-street art-
theatre next Wednesday. Duncan Macdougall
promises Sydney playgoers something out
of the ordinary in this unconventional
“THE GONDOLIERS,”
AT HER MAJESTY’S,
SYDNEY.
John Ralston as the Grand Inquisitor and
Charles A. Walenn as the Duke of
Plaza-Toro.
study of adolescence, both as to its theme
and the manner of presentation. It will be
preceded by Douglas Hyde’s one-act comedy,
“The Marriage.”
sj;
The Briants have said good-bye to Sydney
Tivoli; but George Carney still earns his
cheers and Rich and Adair, with King and
Benson, keep the programme well seasoned
with laughter. An unprogrammed item which
roused the house last week was the saxa-
phone playing of Sam Babicci, an Australian
drawn up out of the orchestra to supply a
special turn.
Stiffy and Mo have turned Sydney Fullers’
stage this week into a harem, and as there
are a large number of comely maidens
attached to their company they are able
to give their new turn plenty of kick. Amy
Rochelle’s resounding voice continues to
penetrate to every corner of the house, and
Sadie Gale and “The Radio Six” are scoring
with a little bit of nonsense called “I
Walked Back from the Buggy-ride.”
*
Young George Palmer’s “The North-Bound
Limited,” which started a several weeks’ sea-
son at Sydney Arcadia last Friday, would
do better without the preliminary apology.
That sort of thing is inclined to make fault-
finders look for faults. The clever 17-year-
old youngster’s work is melodramatic and
crude ; but the same thing can be said about
“CRADLE-SNATCHERS,” AT
MELBOURNE KING’S.
Arthur Cornell, Sidney Stirling and Herbert
Belmore as the three giddy husbands,
when they’re found out in their phil-
anderings.
a host of imported films, boosted and
accepted as masterpieces. Advantages the
film has are that the setting is in familiar
circumstances, and the melodrama is clean
and swift-moving. A comedy made good by
the droll seriousness of Eddie Cantor’s face
extracts excellent comedy out of “Special
Delivery,” which, shown at the Lyceum in
conjunction with “Too Many Crooks” (a
laughable burlesque on the “crook” drama),
indicates a new aspirant to the front rank
of filmery. Hoyt’s is to put on the British
war film “Mons” next Saturday.
* * * *
“The Sheik” will roll up his tents and
pay off the sirocco at Melbourne Palace to-
morrow night, whereafter patrons will be
given another opportunity of sniffing at
“Abie’s Irish Rose” —for six nights only.
Joseph Hislop’s voice treads on the depart-
ing tale of “Variety” at the Auditorium on
the same night; and “The Last Warning.” a
mystery play, performs the same service to
Kaai’s Hawaiians at the Athenaeum. Louise
Lovely, Dulcie Bland, Frank Bradley and
Walter Cornock—especially Cornock—are
part of the promising-looking cast of the new
production. His Majesty’s wears a new face
of terracotta tiles, which is a great improve-
ment ; but the old faces are still on view
inside, where “Pompadour” is reigning. “Tip
Toes” is at the Royal, and “Cradle Snatch-
ers” at the King’s; and pictured classic
grace, and prowess crowd “The Golden Road”
at the transpontine T May house.
* * * *
The Bulletin’s Melbourne man returned
from his annual visit to the Show bearing
up bravely under the usual load of paid-
for “samples.” lie also trailed a small boy
loaded to the plimsoll with free literature.
The small boy gratefully accepted all the
paper that was thrtist upon him. He has
more Scotch blood in him than his male
parent. The small boy considers this year’s
Show better than the last, mainly because
of Chilliwingi. She is the pigmy woman
“captured from the Bushman tribe in Dark-
est Africa” by the adventurous Mr. Tasman
Bradley. Chil. is the smallest menace to
the White Australia policy that has ever
slipped through the immigration clause. A
goldsmith’s scale had to be employed to
weigh her. According to her owner, who
smuggled her out of the Dim Continent, she
can be savage. When this Showman saw her
she was all becks and smiles and manipu-
lated a gramophone with the skill of a
St. Kilda flapper. At first he was inclined
to classify her as a Maori, but as one of
his many useless accomplishments is a
knowledge of Dutch, and as she responded
to the language test successfully, he thinks
she may be a dwarf African. Without
aspersing Mr. Bradley’s veracity, this Show-
man doubts the pigmy theory. Hercules
found pigmies who had to use ladders to
climb to the rim of his wine goblet and who
harvested their wheat by chopping down the
stalks with axes. But Hercules was often
a liar. Modern investigators have found no
genuine pigmies under four feet, whereas
Chil. is 28 inches.
* * * *
The American language being in fashion,
this year’s Show week display of buck-
jumping at Wirths’ Olympia, Melbourne, de-
scribes itself as a Rodeo. Otherwise the
outfit is much as formerly, and includes the
usual histrionic abo. in a red shirt and the
kindly sentimental chap in the cholera-belt
and a face like Henry Lawson’s. The star
equine is Aspro. With the assistance of an
orchestral accompaniment provided by a dog,
he gives many city riders a sick headache.
The comic relief is provided by a young man
in a seedy serge suit who looks drunk or
dazed or merely stupid, but nevertheless
abstracts three notes from the management
by sticking to Blue Gull as if they had been
oxywelded. Australia’s champion trick
whipster is absent. He has probably found
being a Fitzroy plumber a more lucrative
profession. Mankind has passed through
many ages, including the Stone Age and the
Horse Age. This is the Age of Plumbing.
* * * *
Kenneth Impett’s valedictory concert was
a long and liberal entertainment and
attracted a sparse but enthusiastic audience
to Melbourne Assembly Hall. The young
man, who is off to Italy, gave a taste of his
baritone in polyglot numbers ranging from
Schumann to Roger Quilter and Tschaikow-
sky. He is best described as an incipient
Chaliapin whose sense of the dramatic
savors more of the drawing-room than of
deep experience. But he has a pleasantly-
spherical and well-groomed voice, and the
depths should come later.
jjc #*{ sjc $
For a change Hetty King, the English
impersonator of various well-worn male
types, opened in Melbourne, and, judging by
her reception by a Show crowd at the Tivoli
on Saturday, she should remain ajar for
some considerable time. Hetty, who is a
plump and engaging gal, turns herself into
a plump and engaging lifeguard and a plump
and engaging navvy and the same sort of
sailor. But for obvious reasons she can’t
impersonate a thin wowser or State Premier
Hogan; so her art is limited. Within her limi-
tations, though, she is a fetching she-male
who pays more attention to mannish details
than the recent Miss Shields. Some of her
little tricks make one almost ready to believe
her story that she perfected her art by
working at the docks and in regimental
stables.
Melbourne Bijou is the latest convert to
the continuous vaudeville idea, and Robert
Roberts is the generalissimo of the enter-
tainment. It is so superior to the revue
show which made room for it that it pro-
bably cut the latter dead when they passed
each other going in and coming out.
* * * *
Hollywood lias made an interesting drama
out of the irrigation industry in “The Win-
ning of Barbara Worth,” Melb. Majestic’s
current screening. A great dam bursts and
a city is wiped out without seriously inter-
rupting a love affair between Ronald Col-
man and Vilma Banky. At Hoyt’s “Babe
Comes Home” amidst much laughter, the
infant mentioned being Babe Ruth, who
recently insured his terrestrial life for five
million dollars, according to a cable. But
the pictures that men make live after them,
nor are the goods as oft interred with their
bones as they might be.
** * *
More spring shows in Melbourne: —
The latest blooms from Charles Wheeler’s garden
are on show at the New Gallery. Wheeler wields a
good meaty palette and gets fleshtints even unto his
landscapes. “Gold,” “russet” and “flame” in the
titles of pictures indicate his color leanings. “Mrs.
Anketell M. Henderson” is one of his finest efforts.
The youthful spirit looking out of the mask of age
is admirably rendered. A fine portrait, beautifully
balanced and very suave in tone and arrangement.
$ $ $ $
The latest selections of Mr. Rinder, the Felton
Bequest’s London buyer, have arrived at the National
Gallery, and are superior to the last preceding con-
signment, though sketchy. “At Miami, Florida,” is
an instructive oil adumbration by Sargent, though
his water-color “Chioggia” is of no moment. The
body-color panorama of Rome from the Janieulum
by Sam Palmer (1848) is a grandiose and highly
successful effort, and “Carting the Wheat” by the
same artist is a valuable study of tempestuous
composition. “Iseult,” by Ambrose McEvoy, is a
smudged lady hardly worth acquaintance—similar
shorthand notes could be found in Australian artists’
attics by the hundred —but Mrs. Claude Johnson, by the
same might have been worth knowing if the artist
had finished her. Even as she is, she will be useful
to students. Giovanni Segentini’s cow looks as if it
had been disappointed in an egg-laying competition
(Continued on page 2Sf.)


< T '!T
r
Rubber cases and jars used in
Willard Batteries are tested elec*
trically— at. 18,000 volts. Only
perfect cases and jars can pass
this test.
that's
Quality
’’Ste
■V
STORAGE
BATTERY
AUSTRALIAN GENERAL ELECTRIC CO., LTD.,
68 Wentworth Avenue, Sydney.
AUSTRALIAN GENERAL ELECTRIC CO., LTD.,
482 Elizabeth Street, Melbourne.
MOTOR SUPPLIES. LTD.. Brisbane.


or something, but the drawing is technically clever.
The Pisano, showing a pond, a village, a church
and what may perhaps be a flock of ducks, is full of
light vibration and is the best of this painter’s efforts
yet obtained. “A Serious Conversation” by Prof.
Tonks is only a classroom exercise, but J. Bosbooin’s
church interior is a nice clean place full of a prayer-
ful regard for tone values. Mr. Rinder still hankers
after antiques of dubious artistic value, and it is a
long time since he has added anything as satisfying
and instructive as Goya’s landlady; but his art
education is progressing.
No recent art show in Melbourne has created so
much public interest as the just-ended Twenty
Painters’ parade at the Athenaeum, and, despite the
silence of the daily paper critics on their work, the
cause of the excitement was the wall embellished
with the mind-products of Messrs. Frater and Shore.
These two gentlemen regard their work as modern,
but it isn’t that. It is really primordial. It isn’t
even a modern resurrection. Fourteen years ago at
a London show there was a picture of miners entering
a cage. When the eye sees a group of struggling
people the brain doesn’t immediately associate each
pair of limbs with its respective body. The artist
had illustrated this simple optical illusion by spatter-
ing his canvas with detached and semi-detached arms
and legs. The Frater-Shores don’t go as far as that.
All they attempt is simplification of form and color.
Simple form and color are not necessarily superior to
complex ditto, any more than a stone axe is better
than a crosscut saw. The value of the Shore-Frater
devolutionaries, much of whose work is merely
ugly, is as a purge for traditionary art. A glance
around the average show indicates that it needs a
dose badly. Victorian artists more than others are
settling comfortably down not to copying Nature
but to copying one another. The Frater-Shores are
their—and ' the public’s—punishment.
* * * *
At the Adelaide Royal “Rose Marie” still
plays to full houses, though as regards music it
can’t compare with “Maid of the Mountains,”
and Harriet Bennett’s voice, except for her
top notes, is fading away. The great attrac-
tion is the Totem Pole ballet, with the movie
lovemaking in the first act and Hard-boiled
Herman. The folks from the country, who
are drifting in now for the September Show,
will revel in it. At the Prince of Wales
“The Goldfish” is drawing bigger houses than
any previous production. Muriel’s lightning
change in dogs and husbands makes a hit.
Harvey Adams has a part as the Count in
which he excels. The Duke is played now as
a juvenile instead of a decrepit nobleman —-
he is feeble in any case. At the Majestic
the whole bill is in the hands of a vaudeville
company. The plan may save worry to the
management, but the public likes an expen-
sive Continental turn now and then. This
week Decima and Eddie McLean are putting
pep into the show. At West’s Constance
Talmadge is playing the title-role in “Venus
of Venice,” a fascinating film. Wondergraph
is providing something out of the ordinary
in “The Show,” a weird story of a huge
circus in which trained reptiles and animals
contribute stunts, and the manager earns a
messy finish from a giant lizard he had tor-
tured. The dance of Renee Adoree as Salome
is a charming thing. Frances Alda, with
her beautiful voice and amazing toilettes, has
had but poor houses; “Rose Marie” has
raked in all the loose shekels. Alda was
delighted to renew her acquaintance with
Jennie Opie, who was a contemporary of
student and vaudeville days.
“Arradni” : John Brownlee, the Australian
baritone, is to be included in the Firm’s
grand-opera list. With Clara Serena (Adel-
aide’s Clara Kleinsclimidt) and Browning
Mummery, Brownlee sang in various Wag-
nerian works during the recent season at
Covent Garden.
“East-side”: Tastes in plays as in other
things differ. “Abie’s Irish Rose,” which
concluded its New York run in the first
week in August, had been on Broadway for
five years and three months. London said
good-bye to it recently after a frosty season
of 16 weeks.
“C. Ockney” : America is not having it all
its own way in regard to bizarre play titles.
A piece produced at Wyndliam’s Theatre,
London, by Charles Popham Young, is called
“The One-eyed Herring.” We may now ex-
pect “The Giddy Kipper,” “The Legless
Lobster” and “The Soulless Eel.”
“Cauboy”: While exhibitors are protest-
ing to the Film Commission that there is no
discrimination against the local production,
it is worth noting that Michael Terry’s pic-
ture “In the Grip of the which
he photographed in the N.T. in 1925, is
doing well in the Cold Land despite fierce
competition. Terry was unable to obtain
bookings in Australia.
“Caul Boy”: Margaret Bannerman, the
pretty Canuck who has done so well in Lun-
non, is the Firm’s dramatic event for 1928.
She opens in Melbourne in March if there
is any theatre that hasn’t been converted into
a movie-parlor left. “Our Betters,”
Maugham’s hard, bright, photographic spot-
light thrown on the Best People, will be her
chief offering.
“Flaming Youth”: “Ypres” shows the
crudeness of the usual war picture in the
battle scenes. The soldiers engaged in a
hop-over rush across the line of vision like
sheep through a drafting gate. If that sort
of thing had really happened the slaughter
would have been far worse than it really ivas.
Many picturegoers were actually at the war,
and some effort might be made to film inci-
dents that will not strike them as pure
farce.
“Hasen”: One thing about Yankee films
I shall never understand is the alleged mind
of the hound responsible for the sub-titles.
Particularly are the blatant or bathetic cap-
tions inexcusable where the author of the
original work is capable of reasonable Eng-
lish. Recently I came upon a re-edition
of Willa Cather’s “A Lost Lady,” which
had been screened since its first publication
and was now illustrated by scenes from the
photoplay. Miss Gather is one of the more
readable of American writers, and to turn
from her style and diction to such gems
as “Dazzled by the tinsel she forgot the
pure gold,” and “Another lucky spin of Fate’s
unerring wheel,” and “The gay life she
longed for” and the like was, to say the
least, irritating.
Poverty
Point
“The toll of lives lost in trans-Atlantic flights is now 16.” —News item.
THE CHAP WITH THE BLACKBOARD: “Come on — let’s make it a score!”
“Flaming Youth”: Sydney has had its.
first view of two new Australian films. “The
North-bound Express,” the production of 17-
year-old George Palmer, is being unrolled at
the Arcadia, with Palmer himself showing in
the prologue. Only a privileged few saw the
other: Steele Rudd’s “Romance of Runni-
bede.” The Phillips Films people, who have
produced the picture, say that they can do
similar pieces at an outside cost of £lO,OOO.
Already they have had inquiries from Eng-
land and America for this one.
“Hamfat”: Arthur Pourchier, who died
while on tour in South Africa with “Treasure
Island,” was a graduate of the Oxford Uni-
versity Dramatic Society. He made such a
hit as an amateur that Lily Langtry gave
him the part of Jaques in “As You Like
It.” He was 26 when he made his first pro-
fessional appearance. Bourchier’s manager-
ial career started six years later, at London
Royalty. Subsequently he was connected
managerially with Charles Wyndham and
Herbert Tree. The most successful pro-
duction of his life was “The Petter ’Ole,”
which ran for 800 performances. Bourchier
himself played Old Bill. He consistently
took the best part whether it was heroic
lead, heavy, character or comedy. Bourchier
needed sub-editing or stage-managing in his
later years, but he had a stage personality
that carried him through.
“Hamfat”: Sam Babicci was not listed
on the programme when he was lifted out
of the Sydney Tivoli orchestra to do a saxo-
phone turn behind the footlights. But not
even George Carney or the Briants, expen-
sive imported turns, aroused more enthusi-
asm. The house was still demanding more
when the curtain went up for the next turn.
Sam, who makes the saxophone a musical
instrument, is the son of the genial Babicci
who was one of the old hands of the Pro-
fessional Musicians’ Union. That was in
the days when P. J. Minahan made a few
extra bob as a musician; he moved into
political prominence from his position as
union delegate to Labor conferences.
“Lud” : A new and surprisingly optimistic
management charged three guineas for its
orchestra stalls on the first night of “White-
birds” at London Her Majesty’s and 18s. 6d.
afterwards. There was very little “after-
wards.” The niece, a musical mixture of
the overdone —or underdone —revue _ type,
with Josie Collins and George Gee in the
cast, ran only eight weeks. Enough money
was sunk in the venture to produce three or
four good plays.
“Digger Strorat”: According to Charles
Walenn, “Ruddigore” was Gilbert's favorite,
with “Yeomen of the Guard” and "Utopia,
Dtd.,” next in order. Sullivan’s choice was
“Yeomen.”
“Cauboy” : The imbecilities the censorship
is apt to fall into are well illustrated in the
film “Variety,” now being shown in Aus-
tralia. In this striking picture a trapeze
artist leaves his wife to go on circuit with
a woman in the same profession. Another
vaudevillain seduces the woman and is mur-
dered for his pleasures, while the wife for-
gives and gets a pardon for her husband.
The Censor allowed the seduction and the
murder to pass, but turned the trapezist s
wife into his sister and caused the unfaith-
ful fellow to say to his new partner, as they
make off, “We’ll get married to-night.” The
whole dramatic sense of the story was de-
stroyed without improving its morality.
“Arradni”: “Caul Boy” (B. 25/8/’27)
asserts that all mummers are mimics. There
are exceptions. Lizette Parkes, with Julius
Knight in “The Scarlet Pimpernel,” gave a
striking and original performance as Suzanne
dc Tournai. Irene Browne, on the other
hand, gave a perfect mimicry of Julia Neil-
son as Lady Blaltoney, gestures included. In
“Bella Donna” the same lady disclosed all
of Mrs. Patrick Campbell’s vocal tricks, plus
mannerisms. Most imported actresses bor-
row or steal most of their tricks. Sylvia
Bremer, now doing well in pictures in
America, is about the worst offender this
country has produced. In “Bought and Paid
For” she understudied Muriel Starr, and
had all that lady’s vocal impedimenta oil
pat, even to the throb.
“Flaming Youth” : The filming of the war-
picture “Ypres” must have been a trial to
Mrs. Nelson, who looks after the ladies’
dressing-room at Sydney Palace. Her only
son went to the war, distinguished himself,
and was lost after the Fleurbaix tragedy.
The only news she could get of him was that
he had been seen lying wounded on a trench
parapet; and there was a chance that he
had been taken prisoner. Three years passed
before she relinquished the last shred of
hope.
“Lud”: The new London Daly’s piece,
“Peggy Ann,” breaks away from the tra-
ditions of the house. In the first place it is
a purely American concoction, and Daly’s,
although built by an American citizen, has
never before staged a Yankee musical play.
Again, the new management has not followed
the Daly precedent in engaging players with
“names.” True, the leading actress Dorothy
Dickson —one of London’s numerous. Peter
Pans and the original “Tip Toes” —is well
known, but the rest of the mummers are
of the smaller fry. No musical-comedy cast
in London nowadays seems complete with-
out an Australian in it. This time it is
young Oliver McClennan who has the entree
in a fairly important part. Only a few
months back he was singing and dancing
in one of the Fuller shows.
“Cauboy” : Empire Theatres, Ltd., Sydney,
is another laboratory ior J.O.W. The Firm
has bought the Australasian rights of “The
Student Prince” from the Naylor co., and
will probably present the part of Kathie to
Peppy de Vries, the Dutch girl who is Pom-
padouring in Melbourne. Peppy “created”
this role when “The Student Prinec” was
“Old Heidelberg.” Frederick Plackman will
come from the Gaiety and Daly’s, London,
to produce the piece, so it should be launched
under what press-agents call the happiest
auspices.
“Goldilocks”: In Melbourne the lady
social-writer is as essential an ingredient
of a first night as the critic. And the show
that is not socially correct is damned, as
William Ileuglian (D. 15/9/’27) could tes-
tify. Heuglian, one of the finest dramatic
singers heard in Australia, lacked the impri-
matur of a tony first-night crowd, and his
audiences, including deadheads, were as
scanty as 45. Melbourne turns to the social
column after a first night to see if it is
worth while reading the review. Sydney
doesn’t care a dump about the social sur-
roundings as long as it enjoys itself.
“Goldilocks”: A man with a personal
grievance made one of the audience at Syd-
ney Criterion the other night. It was
evident that he was celebrating a divorce;
but, despite his court victory, the bitterness
still rankled. The wife in the play he
called, in an undertone, anything but a
lady, his sympathies being entirely and belli-
cosely with the husband. Put when Cypri-
enne inside her confessions which shows
that all her flirtations were innocent
—he became scornful. “Plime!” he ejacu-
lated with supreme disgust. He believes
it
“F.S.”: There was the usual yelp of
indignation from the part of the public that
writes to the press because Alda said some
nasty things about Melbourne's musical
taste. “I sang popular numbers in Mel-
bourne,” the lady remarked in Adelaide,
“because popular numbers were what the
public liked” ; and she gave as evidence the
fact that that curious animal, Special
Request, had never asked her to sing any-
thing loftier than “You Passed by My
Window.” But it is hard to believe the
lady when she says Australian taste is worse
than .when she was in the country 20 years
ago. The gramophone, pianola and radio
introduce a lot of rubbish into the home, but
they bring good music, too. If a singer
doesn’t attract a congregation with a know-
ledge of intelligent music it is probably
the singer’s fault.
“Magis”: For convenience sake Poverty
Point will soon have to be removed to the
vicinity of the nearest broadcasting station.
Consider the disbursements of 3LO in Mel-
bourne. It pays approximately £243 per
week for its orchestras. Putting “The
Merry Widow” on the air recently cost it
£l3O. Artists’ salaries run away with
£21,000 and music copyrights £O,OOO per
annum. The scene-shifters, or their radio
equivalent, and other incidentals bring the
total weekly outgoings to over £lOOO.
“St. John's Green” (Lond.) : The first
night of “Shake Your Feet” at the Hippo-
drome drew harsh words from the audience
and many of the critics. Billy Merson, the
principal comedian, did little to justify his
salary of £3OO a week; the American danc-
ing girls were not up to promise; the “book”
was often coarse and still more often stupid;
stalls prices were increased to 245., and the
rule of free programmes on first nights was
broken. As a consequence the audience was
in a bad humor. It vented its spite chiefly
on Milton Hayes, who, to my mind, was the
brightest spot in the show. Even his harm-
less reference to the Duke of York’s purchase
of a perambulator being a hint to the Prince
of Wales was resented, though much more
personal references are made to the Prince
when he is in the audience. Booing and
groaning in London theatres are becoming
almost as intense as in Italy.
“S.T.S.” (from London) : Our old friend
Seymour Hicks, restless as usual, has an-
nounced that he is quite tired of playing the
fool on the stage, and feels competent for
something higher. Friendly critics have
hastened to advise him not to ask for trouble
by essaying Hamlet or Sliylock, but to look
for parts that should really suit his now
well-marked style. Sticking right out seem
to be Mascarille, the valet masquerading as
a lord in “Les Precieuses Ridicules” (Mo-
liere) ; and the leading part in Ibsen’s
“Enemy of the People,” which has not been
touched in England since Beerbohm Tree got
a lot of grim and dramatic humor out of it.
“Craiser”: The people who witnessed the
German film “The Golden Road to Strength
and Beauty” at Melbourne Playhouse loudly
applauded th e pictured representations of
Major Newman-Neurode’s methods of train-
ing children in athletics from babyhood.
They could have seen a living exhibition of
the cult in the same building. Up above
in a school of dancing and gymnastics 100
or so young Australians were being put
through the same evolutions, and some of
the tots engaged are just as tiny as those
in the picture. This particular school is
much favored by Fitzroy and South Mel-
bourne mothers who aspire to see their
infants in a J.C.W. panto., and there
are always almost as many adoring
parents looking on as young participants.
The principal believes in the open air, too,
and her lithe youngsters’ back-somersaulting
in the park opposite is one of the free shows
of the city.
“Mabaka”: I was sitting on a verandah
overlooking a pretty river in Fiji. It was
evening, and the full moon was rising. 1
heard the sound of singing up the river; it
came from the women of the village return-
ing on the high tide from the reef, where
they had been fishing. The harmony, as
usual, was perfect (the Fijian is a natural
singer) and it made me feel almost emo-
tional. Usually on such occasions some well-
known hymn serves the singer's purpose,
but this time I recognised an old secular
friend, “Show Me the Way to Go Home .
Rendered in harmony, and in Fijian words,
it was an astonishing improvement on the
original rendering by our nasal song-and-
dance cousins from the Bow r ery.
“Craiser”: Among Tait offerings next year
will be pianists Moiseiwitsch (for the third
time) and William Murdoch, the Australian
who is included in the first-rankers abroad.
Incidentally, Australia nearly heard Mur-
doch this year. He was billed to play at an
Empire broadcast concert in London recently,
but the static interjected.
“Cauboy”: She was an unsophisticated
musicomedy star, and she fell in love at first
sight. The young man was just as unso-
phisticated, and forthwith the simple, inno-
cent pair, unaware of their wrongdoing,
went to the registry office. For a fortnight
they billed and cooed in carefree happiness.
Then they began to hear whispers. Black
looks followed the bride about the theatre.
The treasurer hurled her pay envelope at
her as if he were throwing a bone to an
outcast dog. Lastly, the managing directoi
turned his back —it was a large, flat back
and cut the bewildered lady dead. In tears,
she sought the great man’s presence and
besought him to tell her how she had eaine
his disapproval. He looked her up and dotvn
in blank amazement. “Why, damme,
woman!” he shouted, “I don’t know non
you’ve got the nerve to look me in the lace.
Why, I’ve just heard you’ve gone oft witn
Mr. Blank.” “But I’m married to him,
wept the lady. “Precisely,’ roared tn.
magnate. “That’s the trouble. If you weren t
married something might be done. r>u
now —what about the public, what about t
show, what about Us!” Realising her crim
the stricken girl emitted cries °f
and wept bitterly into her purse The si»n.
softened the heart of the managing director
—he was really Good as well as Great,
have it,” he beamed. “You must keep th
shocking registry-office business quiet a
we’ll get you married again m a leaai n*
church. We’ll rope in all the leading peop l
and a Minister of the Crown, or even '
State Premier. Yes, I think we can nobble
a State Premier. How about it. 1 •
thing,” replied the star, between sobs
joy, “that will restore my reputation. & -
it was done.
THE EDUCATION OF HOLLYWOOD.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“Hollywood enterprises are advertising in England
for genuine society women who move in Royal and
Ducal circles, to teach film actresses correct etiquette
and deportment to avoid social solecisms.” — Mel-
bourne Herald.
Ah, woe is me and Hollywood!
The world I view a deal more glumly,
And find therein much less of good,
Since Lady Maude de Marjoribanks Chol-
mondeley
Now fares into the wilderness
To teacli each lovely, living photo
The habits of the haute noblesse
In toto.
Time was the weariest of shows
I could endure, though dumbly strafing
Bathetic theme and banal pose,
Since soon I knew a meed of laughing
Was mine w r hen Nita Nudest gave
Her notion, freed from cramping stric-
tures,
Of how a countess should behave,
In pictures.
Oh, bleak the day and black the job
Foretold in these disturbing rumors!
Can nothing hinder those wlio’d rob
The screen of its unconscious humors?
Since conscious wit it never had
I find the news the more upsetting;
Small wonder that you see me sad
And fretting.
Alas, I fear the world must move
For ever on toward perfection;
These modern miracles improve
So fast, and heed not my dejection.
Since movie-actresses now turn
Their thoughts to details so exacting,
They’ll soon have little left to learn—
But acting!
VICTORIA.
HASEN.


Shipping.
THOS. COOK S SON,
RAILWAY AND STEAMSHIP AGENTS.
ilie Only Firm in the World with Permanent Offices
in All Countries to give Service and Assistance to
Travellers.
PASSAGES BY ALL LINES.
Lowest Rates; All Classes.
TRAY’ELEERS’ CHEQ ITES.l T ES.
In Sterling and Dollars, Safe, Convenient.
BAGGAGE INSURANCE.
ESCORTED TOURS.
CEYLON AND INDlA.—Leaving Melbourne December
6, 53 days in Ceylon and India, escorted by
European conductor. This tour can be taken cn
route to Europe or returning direct to Australia.
EUROPE.—Select, ideal and popular tours, leaving
January to April. Inclusive fare. £llO to £330.
ALGERIA, TUNISIA, SPAIN. —Special Tours leaving
Australia February and March, 1928.
AMERICA.—Special tour cn route to Europe, leaving
Melbourne April 18.
INCLUSIVE INDEPENDENT TOURS,
Providing
TRAVEL, HOTEL, SIGHTSEEING, ETC.
Australia, America, Ceylon, Egypt, Europe, Hono-
lulu, Japan, Java, Malaya, New Zealand, Palestine,
South Africa, etc. Itineraries arranged to suit in-
dividual requirements.
THOS. COOK & SON,
MELBOURNE:
269 Collins Street.
ADELAIDE:
49a Grenfell Street.
SYDNEY:
Martin Place.
PEIJTII:
22 Forrest Street (Opir. G.P.0.). I
BRISBANE, via BYRON BAY
Through Tickets to Brisbane issued.
S.S. ORARA — Every Saturday evening; passengers
due Brisbane Monday afternoon.
S.S. WOLT.ONCBAR—Every Tuesday evening,
passengers due Brisbane Thursday afternoon.
Both vessels fitted with Wireless Receiving Sets.
BRISBANE:
FARES.—
Steamer and Motor throughout, Single, £4
Steamer and Motor throughout, Return, £7/5/-
Steamer and First-class Rail, Single, £3/15/-
Steamer and Second-class Rail, Single, £3/8/-
NOllTir COAST S. N. CO., LTD.,
Passengers’ Booking Office:
TOURIST BUREAU. CHALLIS HOUSE:.
MARTIN PLACE, SYDNEY.
Brisbane Booking Agents: Burns, Philp and Co., Ltd.
Hanking, Public Companies, etc.
THE AUSTRALIAN BANK
OF COMMERCE LTD.
Authorised Capital .. .. .. £5,000,n0n
Capital Paid Up and Reserves .. .. £3;305,130
Aggregate Assets at 30th June, 1927 . . £3 8,360,297
Directors: Sir Makk Siiki,don, K.8.E., Ciiairiiian ;
Fuank N. Yauwood; 11. R. LysAoht, 0.8. E. ;
Gkorge J. Si.v, LL.D. ; Lieut.-Col. T. L. F. Rut-
-I,edge ; James Kell.
General Manager: C. M. C. Shannon.
Chief Inspector: W. C. Hull.
HEAD OFFICE, SYDNEY {Corner George and King
Streets).
Branches and Receiving Offices at 158 places in
New Soutii Wales.
BRISBANE (264 Queen Street).
Branches and Receiving Offices at 27 places in
Queensland.
MELBOURNE (325 Collins Street).
ADELAIDE (35 Bundle Street).
PERTH, W.A. (73 St. George's Terrace).
LONDON (37 Threadncedle Street, E.C.2).
Manager: A. F. Jenkins.
London Directors :
A. Dodds Fairbairn, Alfred Shepherd, Javies Tuke.
Agents throughout Australia. Tasmania and New
Zealand, and at all the Chief Cities of the World.
Every description of Banking Business Transacted.
Bank of New Zealand.
SYDNEY BRANCH:
Corner GEORGE and WYNYARD
STREETS.
Guaranteed Stock
Preference Shares
Long Term Mortgage Shares
Ordinary Shares
Reserve Fund and Undivided Profits
£529,988
1,875,000
374,197
3,750,000
3,609,055
GRANTS DRAFTS
Great Britain and Ireland, and other places.
, New
Samoa.
RECEIVES DEPOSITS f Ol . int S
periods and transacts all other usual Banking business.
Australian Mutual
8 r'pit?st,"s'inB/ Pro vidsatS o c i i t y
The Largest and Most Successful
Mutual Life Office in the British Empire,
Distributes a Cash Bonus Every Year.
Amount Distributed for single year 1926 £2,887,200
Yielding Reversionary Additions to
Policies of over £4,893,000
Accumulated Funds .. .. £63,600,000
Annual Income £9,600,000
The Society transacts Every Class of Ordinary
and Industrial Assurance Business.
H. W. A PRERLY, F.S.S.. General Manager.
THE
UNITED
INSURANCE
COMPANY Ltd.
ESTABLISHED 1862.
HEAD OFFICE:
GEORGE S HUNTER STREETS, SYDNEY.
CAPITAL - £1,000,000.
Fire Insurances
i
Marine Risks
j effected ou all classes ul
■ Buildings, Stocks, Furni-
ture. &c. lie tits also assured.
on Wool, Merchandise,
Mulls of Vessels, Freights.
Passage Money, etc.
Accident and Other Insurances
of various classes.
The “United” is an Australian Institution.
A. C. Dawson. Sec. H. E. Robinson, Gen, Manager,
Shipping, etc.
At Excursion Hates to
Honolulu
Home of surf-riding - ideal climate,
marvellous scenery - gorgeous
tropic vegetation - volcanoes and
coral reefs - charming natives and
interesting immigrant races - golf,
swimming, boating, fishing, shoot-
ing, tennis, dancing, motoring, etc.
Excellent accommodation at
moderate rates.
5 1 days from Sydney to Honolulu
and back, including nearly three
weeks in Hawaii.
Longer stay if desired.
Return Fares from Sydney:
Ist Class ’ - - - - £7O
2nd Class - - - - £5O
WRITE TO
UNION STEAM SHIP CO.,
247 George Street, Sydney,
or William Street, Melbourne.
K* 3
x\
//i r&Tj, , mh\\\\\\\W^s^
"■i-j —1 iiiiMi~! r ~~-jiii Ttwar—NMii— iiiiiV' ' I
AORANGI,
1 7,49 1 tons,
Dec. I 5 ; Feb. 9.
NIAGARA,
13,415 tons,
Nov. 1 7 ; Jan. I 2
YOUR NEXT HOLIDAY!
Take a Trip to the South Sea Isles.
REGULAR SAILINGS FROM SYDNEY TO
New Guinea, Papua, Solomons, Lord
Howe Island, Norfolk Island and New
Hebrides.
TRIPS OF 3£ TO 5 WEEKS
Affording a Restful Holiday Amongst Beautiful
Scenery and Interesting Native People.
M*
Civ
THROUGH BOOKINGS ARRANGED TO
ENGLAND
EUROPE
AMERICA
CANADA
AFRICA
INDIA
JAPAN
CHINA
JAVA, etc.
At regular passage rates.
No extra charge.
Attractive Tour to
NOUMEA, JAVA, HONOLULU, COLOMBO, etc.
VISIT JAVA (The wonderland of the East).
Regular monthly sailings of the s.s. “Marella” and
m.s. “Malabar” to Java and Singapore via Queensland
ports, Thursday Island, Darwin, etc. Smooth-water trip,
Deck Cabins, interesting ports of call.
APPLY
BURNS, PHILP & CO., LTD.,
WORLD TOUR and TRAVEL DEPARTMENT.
7 BRIDGE STREET, SYDNEY.
South Africa and England
ABERDEEN LINE ]
BLUE FUNNEL LINE
WHITE STAR LINE ]
J",
A combined service offering unequalled
facilities at moderate rates.
§* Nestor. . . . 15,000 tons, Sept. 21
tThemistocles 11,500 ~ Oct. 11
tCeramic .. • 18,500 ~ Oct. 18
*Ulysses.... 15,000 ~ Nov. 14
f Euripides . . 15,000 ~ Nov. 29
*Anchises . . 10,000 ~ l)ee. 12
*Ascanius . . 10,000 ~ Jan. 7
JSuevic .... 12,500 „ Jan. 17
* First class only, fFirst and Third class.
s“Cabin” class only. §\'i;i Suez Canal.
For full particulars apply to:
Dalgety 8 Co., Ltd. ) joint
Gilchrist, Watt 8 Sanderson, Ltd. J AgantB
Interstate Telegraphic address:
“NALDHAM.”
Cable address
“NALDIIAM’
Macdonald, Hamilton 8 Co.
247 George Street, Sydney.
Shipping Agents, Merchants, Colliery
Proprietors, Tug and Lighter Owners.
MANAGING AGENTS FOR
Australasian United Steam Navigation Co., Etd.
Fitzroy Estates, Etd.
iiiackheatli Collieries, Etd., and Caledonian
Collieries, Utd.
Eastern & Australian Steamship Co., Ltd.
AGENTS FOR
British-India S. N. Co., Ltd. I*. & O. S. N. Co.
Queensland Line of Steamers. Scottish Shire Line
(Turnbull, Martin & Co.). New Zealand Shipping Co.,
Ltd. Canadian-Australasian Royal Mail Line, San
Francisco Service (Union S. S. Co.), Union S. S. Co.
of New Zealand, Ltd. Hain Line. Huddart Parker,
Ltd. London Assurance Corporation (Marine). Mel-
bourne Agents for Messageries Maritimes Co. Queens-
land Agents for Sea Insurance Co., Ltd.
BRANCHES at Perth, Fremantle, Adelaide, Port
Adelaide, .Melbourne, Suva (Fiji), Brisbane, Mary-
borough, Bundaberg and Bowen.
BANK OF NEW SOUTH WALES.
Established 1817.
PAID-UP CAPITAL
RESERVE FUND ..
RESERVE LIABILITY
ĥ
£6,875,000
4,750,000
6,875,000
£18,500,000
Directors:
Thomas Buckland, Esq., President.
The Hon Reginald J. Black, M.L.C
Charles Binnie, Esq.
James Matthew Dunlop, Esq.
Robert 1.. Faithful!, Esq., M.D.
Robert \Y. Gillespie, Esq.
Franc R. S. Falkiner. Esq.
Auditors: \V. H. Palmer, Esq,; S. E. Laidiey, Esq. General Manager: OSCAR LINES,
Head Office—George Street. Sydney. London Office —29 Threadneedle Street. E.C. 3.
fd7 Branches and Agencies in the Australian States, Federal Territory, New Zealand, Fiji, Papua,
Mandated Territory of New Guinea and London. Agents and Correspondents throughout the world,
Gallic remittances made to, and drafts drawn on Foreign places DIBI'.CT. Foreign Bills
negotiated and collected. Letters of Credit Issued, negotiable throughout the world.
'Shipping, etc,
Inter-State Steamship
Sailings.
(Passenger Sailings—Circumstances permitting.)
FOR MELBOURNE, ADELAIDE and FREMANTLE
(Transhipping at Melbourne for Geelong and other
Victorian ports; at Adelaide for S.A. Gulf ports;
and at Fremantle for Perth, Bunbury, Geraldton
and North-West Ports).
FOR BRISBANE, MACKAY (no cargo for Mr.ckayj,
TOWNSVILLE and CAIRNS (Transhipping at Bris-
bane for Maryborough, Bundaberg and Gladstone, and
at Townsville for outports).
Huddart ParkerL^
Magnificent
Fast Passenger
Steanisiii|j3
STEAMERS TO NEW ZEALAND—ReguIar sailings
from Sydney to New Zealand ports and vice versa.
Particulars to be obtained on application.
STEAMERS TO TASMANIA —-From Sydney to Hobart
and vice versa as per daily papers. Between Mel-
bourne and Launceston as per daily papers.
For full particulars apply HUDDART PARKER LIMITED
Collins Street, Melbourne; Br idge Street, Sydney.
P. & O. via THE CAPE
SERVICE.
ONE CLASS ONLY.
To I.OXDOX, via Durban & Capetown.
ħ
BELTANA
BENALLA
BOH DA
BERRIMA
Tons.
. 11,100
. 11,100
. 11,100
. 11,100
Fares, from £37 to £45 to England, and
from £2l to £27 to South Africa.
AGENTS—GTLCHRIST, WATT, SANDERSON.
Tel. R 6701-2-3. 5 O’Connell Street. Svdney.
Wills, Gilchrist & Sanderson, Ltd., Brisbane.
John Sanderson & Co., Melbourne.
Geo. Wills & Co., Ltd., Adelaide.
BROOKS RUPTURE
APPLIANCE
Can Now be
Purchased in
Australia at London
Prices.
h
if you are Ruptured write at once for full particular*
of this Modern Invention. Light, cool and com-
fortable. Expert attends to Mail Orders.
AGENTS: GUY ATT & CO., Est. 1853.
DEPT. B,
Surgical Instrument and Truss Makers.
257 a GEORGE STREET
(Opposite Bridge Street), SYEirEY.
ALL AUSTRALIANS visiting London
should read the British Australian
and New Zealander, 6d. weekly—an illus-
trated paper containing mail and cable news
from Australia and news of Australians in
Europe and at home. Australians are cordi-
ally invited to visit the British Australian
and New Zealander Reading-room at the
offices, 414-17 Australia House, Strand,
London, W.C.2, where they can see the home
papers, meet their friends, use the telephone
and obtain information without charge.
Copies of the paper and general information
can be obtained at the Australian Advertis-
ing Agency. Ltd.. 350 George Street, Sydney:
or 454 Collins Street. Melbourne.
WANT TO MAKE
MONEY ?
“The ‘Wild Cat’
Monthly,”
published on the first Saturday of
every month, will help you in your
dealings with shares.
Hundreds of thousands of pounds
are lost annually in Wild Cat com-
panies. “The 'Wild Cat’ Monthly"
will help you to identify them.
As valuable for the Smallest
Investor as for the Largest. In fact,
the small investor needs it most.
Published by “The Bulletin/’ 2/-
per single copy; 22/6 per annum.


.—and now
Alemite Transmission Lubricant
1
%W f
mm
■ ...
No. I T
P
4:
ALEMITE
A new discovery in gear lubrication —
Why motorists should ask for it by name
Here are cold facts. Recently Alemite
engineers brought out a new type of
gear lubricant —the result of three
years’ research.
Famous engineering laboratories first
gave this new lubricant exhaustive fric-
tion heat tests. In every test it set new
low friction records. (See chart).
Then it was tested under actual driving
conditions in well-known, standard
makes of motor cars. These tests showed
what it will do in your car. They re-
vealed a startling fact.
With Alemite Transmission Lubri-
cant Cars Actually Delivered 1 to
11/ 2 more miles per gallon of petrol
than with the old types of grease or
compound.
In just a short time Alemite Transmis-
sion Lubricant has started a new habit
among thousands of motorists. For the
first time they are asking for a gear lu-
bricant by name —the same as they do
for motor oils.
It means a saving of from 40 to 60 gal-
lons of petrol every 10,000 miles. Fur-
thermore, it naturally gives your car
more power, and keeps your gears in
perfect condition —-easy to shift at ex-
tremely low temperatures. AlemiteTrans-
mission Lubricant will not “channel”
when cold, and thus never allows the
gear wheels to turn without a protective
film of lubricant between them.
This remarkable lubricant costs'a little
more, but once you try it you will agree
that it is worth the difference. It con-
tains only the highest grade of oil, so-
lidified by a new, exclusive process—
without fillers or acids. That is the secret
of its unique
power. It is
made for mo-
torists who
want the best.
Use it in your
car every 2,500
miles. It is the
surest preven-
tive of “rear-
end” troubles.
This chart shows the results of
a friction test of Alemite
Transmission Lubrication
made in the laboratories of the
Armour Institute of Technol-
ogy. Note how, compared with
ordinary gear greases, Alemite
kept by far the lowest friction
throughout.
If your service
station cannot supply you, write to
any of the distributors listed below and
you will be taken care of promptly.
THE BASSICK MANUFACTURING
COMPANY
DIVISION OF STEWART-WARNER
Chicago, U. S. A.
AUSTRALIAN DISTRIBUTORS
Bennett & Wood, Ltd. . . . . 284 Pitt St., Sydney
E. A. Machin & Co., corner Elizabeth and Beckett Streets, Melbourne
Cornell, Ltd Adelaide
C. Atkins & Co Perth
Motor Supplies, Ltd. . . ...... Brisbane
© 1927, T. B. M. Co.
Reg. U. S. Pat. Off.
Transmission Lubricant


m
mwm
mm
.'f'.rt
Pip
.
■ - v
Miss MARION
LIGHT FOOT, a
charming Rexona
Girl, writes:
“Rexona Soap
makes the finest
shampoo for the
hair, and is also
invaluable for
keeping the
hands in perfect
condition. J>
Be Pretty! Be Dainty! Be Attractive!
Be a Rexona Girl!
Rexona Girls are world-famous for their beautiful skin and hair. To be a Rexona Girl
is to use only Rexona Soap and enjoy that natural beauty of the skin and hair which
cannot be imitated, but can be obtained by its regular use.
Ordinary toilet soaps do not assert this influence. Many of them contain free alkali,
which tends to dry the skin and destroy its delicate texture. Even the best of such soaps
can only cleanse, they cannot heal and protect the skin.
Rexona Soap contains the same soothing, healing, antiseptic' balsams as Rexona, the
Rapid Healer, the value of which in the treatment of skin affections is known throughout
the world.
Simply use Rexona Skin and
Facial Soap regularly, once
or twice a day, and see if it
does not quickly soothe and
cleanse the pores, lessen the
tendency to pimples, and leave
the complexion clear, fresh and
velvety.
REXONA
SOAP.
c7or Wealth
a/u) k>) eauly
"* D
pot*'*
II-
m
..X-' V.
' ,\\
1 V
i/
i &
DADDY 5
HOME !
HILUER'S
CHOCOLATES
“And he’s brought me
one of those lovely
Big Red Boxes!”
Made to-day and mailed
to you to-day.
Send for Catalogue Illustrated
with reproductions of our Con-
fectionery in color.
PRICES:
3/-, 5/6, 6/-, 10/-, 12/8,
20/- and 30/-
Post Free to any address in
Australia.
dneaY 'HiiiieA.
ummmrnrn
162-66* PITT STREET.
BRANCHES;
CR. GEORGE AND KING STREETS;
CASTLEREAGH STREET,
NEXT THEATRE ROYAL. SYDNEY.
Countermarch.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
WHEN hope rang in the dolly-pot
And treasure seemed the broken
stone,
Full many a dish with colors shot
To sifting breezes have I thrown.
Each loss is worth a mending laugh,
Since faith and purpose yet remain—
I've sifted many a ton of chaff
To reap a meagre ounce of grain.
Red blooms and wine and lips of joy,
Music and mirth, tney served me long;
But sunlight smites the spears of Troy!
High noon has lulled the festive song!
Fate bids me journey west again
Forsaken byways to retrace —
Old pads obscured by sun and rain,
And smoothed by winds that swirl and race.
Unreckoned are those trials grim—
Red famine and the pangs of thirst;
The low horizon’s blazing rim
On plains forgotten and accurst.
I cherish most a season good,
A spring’s fulfilment seen and heard,
The incense of the sandalwood,
The stanzas of a butcher-bird.
Brave tidings drift upon the breeze —
A treasure waits my coming still,
Clasped in the roots of stunted trees
That straggle down some haggard hill.
Across a gully never stirred
By restless feet of men who quest,
Through scrubs of promise-long-deferred
Some reef awaits my coming west.
Where stalwart hosts have trodden far
Through crazy years of thirst and blight,
I will behold my beacon star
Burn down the westward course at night.
Where ranging eyes no longer seek
The mother lode, the pregnant clay,
A sombre swell of mountain peak
Shall hold me onward through the day.
No vain regret, no mute remorse,
Fo>’ vanished days can I possess
Whif faith and purpose shape my course
Once more across the wilderness,
To face and conquer once again
The miles of youth’s impatient stride
On lonely ways that wind and rain
Have smoothed in scrublands dark and wide.
N.S.W.
GERARDY.
The Push.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
HARDRING’S look when he first caught
sight of young Ormond gave me the
jumps. He was hurrying through the
outer office when liis eye fell on Ormond —
fell, and fixed with a blink-and-stare-again
sort of sizing up that told me he saw in
this new clerk a simpleton worth snaring
as he had snared me barely a year ago.
He passed on. But before he reached the
door lie swung round. I had guessed he
would. I don’t have to watch him with my
eyes; my nerves do that for me now. Another
minute and he was beside me telling me
all over again about the estimates 1 was
readying up for the manager, while his look
flickered over the new chap like a tongue
of flame licks round a patch of dry grass.
He was forcing Ormond to look up and meet
his grin. One wide stretch of friendliness
that grin can 100k —before you’ve got so
that you hate the sight of it.
More than once Ormond raised his eyes
as if he had heard liis name called, and
gave him a quick, shy glance. Then he
bent low over his work, forcing himself not
to look up again. At that Hardring took
himself off to his corner in the account-
ant’s room, and the new clerk sank into
himself in his quiet, lonely way until the
stroke of one o’clock, when he was off like
a shot.
Hardring, hurrying in to join me, looked
annoyed.
“Which way ’d he go?” lie asked as he
headed for the street.
He hadn’t gone far. We came on him
standing outside a cheap tearoom, frowning
in at the window, while he screwed his
pluck up to going in, and looking as if he
wished himself back among the gum-trees.
Hardring drew in alongside and got ready
his keen-to-know-you look. “What are you
after here?” he asked, slipping a friendly
grasp on the boy’s slack elbow.
Ormond came round with a start of sur-
prised shyness, looking from Hardring to
me and back again as if I didn't count. . . .
Well, I don’t.
“What are you after?” Hardring rallied.
“Lunch? Not here, my boy. New to the
city, eh? Come along and get to know
your Sydney properly.”
That “your Sydney’’ brought his head up,
pleased him no end. His frown faded away
as he fell into step on Hardring’s right,
looking as if his life had been saved.
When we reached the restaurant we were
bound for Hardring led the way in as if
lie owned it. Ormond followed, overaw*ed.
I guessed what the programme would be.
First, a display of personal interest to open
the way to confidence; later, when Ormond
had been led to commit himself in some
way that made retreat from Hardring impos-
sible, submission would be forced on him,
and then complicity.
Already the programme was begun. No
grass grew* under Leonard Hardring’s slim
feet. I had only to watch Ormond’s face
during dinner to see the headway that was
being made with the friendship-confidence
section.
When the charge-slip was brought us,
Ormond made a move towards his pocket,
but that intention was waved aside.
“Couldn’t think of it on your first day.
My shout,” claimed the director of our feast.
Then, with an easy laugh at me, “Merton
there can pay for himself and his day-
dreams.”
Bringing out a handful of loose silver he-
began stacking florins on his palm, eight
or nine of them. So casually it was done,
ungrudging l v. but it narrowed his friend-
liness, made it personal to one. drove it
home even in the way he slapped his money
down before the girl cashier on our way out.
“Do you come here every day?” asked
Ormond when his stumbling thanks had
been laughed to silence.
“Not I. Wish I could. To-day was in
your honor.”
“We’ll come here again to-morrow, any-
way,” came the eager invitation.
That night Hardring had a word for me
in private. Lounging at the table opposite
me—we had come to sharing a room at a
city residential —he had passed the best part
of an hour in inky calculation and unspoken
speculation. Then I saw him looking at
me.
"If only I could be sure he would turn
out worth while,” he debated with his own
thought.
I knew what worth while meant to Hard-
ring. I was worth while to him, and to no
one else. I was the tool lie used to further
his endless schemes for making other people’s
money his.
“And safe?” he breathed.
Safe. I understood that, too. This boy
would be safe for money-snatching schemes
the moment he had taken one. step definitely
over the border-line that divides honesty
from dishonesty. He would be Hardring s
to play with then.
“See here, Merton —lie’s got to come in.
That R.K.G. affair can’t be worked again
without a third man. Too risky. Touch
and go last time. He’s got to come in with
us.”
Thoughtfully he took a pound-note from
his pocket-book and pushed it across to me.
“Plant that quietly in the morning, some-
where where he’ll be sure to come on it.
Give him his chance. Find out if he’s sticky-
fingered. Until 1 know that Wait a
bit,” he ordered as I took it up. “Christen
it!”
On one corner of the note I pressed a
carefully-inked finger-tip. Then I put the
thing away, ready. No, I didn't protest. It
was months too late for any protest from
me.
All the same, when I saw Ormond rum-
maging in his desk-drawer next morning, I
had to stop myself from warning him off.
Unguarded as a puppy he was. And about
as noisy among his papers.
There fell a sudden, surprised stillness.
Then, out of the quiet crept a Hurry of
indecision. Into some innermost pocket
dived his hand. A purse, a strapped and
buckled stronghold, was excavated. To hide
that pound away? No; to count his own
meagre funds, to make sure that all was
safe within. In his flurried count and re-
count, in his flurried calculation of recent
expenses, could be read the doubt of the
hard-up. The purse was stowed away again.
That was still lying there.
Old Taran’s voice, summoning his new
clerk, put an end to it. As Ormond rose
to hurry off to the chief I caught sight of
the note being thrust into his breast pocket.
Damn Hardring.
As we waited for Ormond at one o'clock
he got in his question.
“Yes. . . . Yes, I think so,” I answered.
“You thin fc?”
“Here he comes.”
All through dinner Hardring joked com-
panionably. sending the meal along with a
zest and a sparkle. But he fell silent when
the waiter brought his docket.
Ormond’s hand made a flying leap towards
the whereabouts of that safe-deposit purse.
I shouldn’t have cared to bring the thing out
in public. Nor, it seemed, did he; his hand
faltered, then sped to his breast pocket.
Hardring’s eyes fastened uncertainly on
the folded note Ormond laid on the table,
then transferred their interest elsewhere.
“That girl at the cash register,’’ lie
began—“did you see her flash me the signal
straight-out yesterday? No? Well—here, if
you like, I’ll hand over your offering while
you line up and watch, eh?”
We got up, Hardring first. He picked up
the docket and the money and, strolling to
the desk, handed them to the cashier, sending
the girl a speaking glance as he did so.
A flush of annoyance spread over her
face. She took another look at him and then,
thoughtfully, ran the note through her
fingers.
“No go!” said Hardring with a shoi't
laugh, and turned to leave.
Ormond followed at once, there had been
no change to wait for. I paid what I owed
and drifted along after them wondering if
Ormond could be so blind as not to notice
that the note the girl had handled was a
crisp, new one. Evidently he hadn’t seen
the substitution. I had only just caught
sight of that and I had been on the watch.
After that day we went back to our old
cafe. It was further from the office, but
much cheaper—not so much dazzle to pay
for. Every day we lunched together except
on the first and third Mondays in the’
month, when it was Ormond’s turn to make
a trip to the branch office in an outlying
suburb. On the alternate Mondays Simmons,
the other junior, went. Both hated the job.
It was tiring and it cut out the best part
of the day. But neither of them hated it
more than Hardring did. He was always
afraid of Ormond’s picking up new friends
on the trip.
Hopeful now that the boy would prove
manageable—one peep at that banknote had
told him what he wanted to know —he
began to push on with his plan. When
first be began on me I hadn’t noticed how
carefully, liow surely lie pointed the way.
Now. with nothing to do but ha'ng about
and look on, I could count each slight step
towards the border line.
Ormond noticed nothing of this. He was
too contented at having got rid of his loneli-
ness to do anything but enjoy himself while
he was being shown his Sydney, and what a
lot, of things money could buy if only he had
it.
“Step lively! Don’t let these cars push
you down among the dead men,” Hardring
would direct at a busy crossing. “Who’s in
’em? The rich, my boy. How’d they get
it? Well, not by scraping sixpences together.
Most of the ways they get it are closed to
traffic nowadays. But what do you think of
this to self-help? Heard of it yesterday.
This fellow, like you and me, wants lots
of things he can’t pay for. Can’t pay for
them yet, I mean. He sees that an early
start to swjrn is the only way to keep his
head above water. He trains it to some little
township, call it Timbuctoo, opens an account
at the local bank for, say, a .tenner, and
(Continued on next page.)


Pont Neglect
Your
Here are seen the
tiny pores thro ’
which the refined
Z a ni-B u k carries
health into the
tissues.
vs
s
&
vw«
w
k*% i\v.aL
xx
Si
OORENESS, spots and chafing are all
signs that the skin is losing its invis-
ible oil-bath supplied from glands inside
the tissues. Skin trouble is best remedied
by regular dressings with Zam-Buk,
because this herbal balm contains valu-
able aromatic oils that make good
Nature’s deficiency and quickly restore
the skin to its normal health and flexi-
bility.
Zam-Buk Reaches the Inner Tissues
Zam-Buk is so highly re-
fined as to be readily
absorbed by the pores or
tiny breathing holes shown
by this magnifying glass.
Thus Zam-Buk gets at the
root of obstinate and irritat-
ing disease beyond the reach
of fatty ointments and dress-
ings which only clog the
pores and lie useless on the
skin’s surface.
Zam-Buk Heals from Be-
low and generates real skin
health. It ends pain and
irritation, annihilates germs,
draws off all bad matter, and
grows new skin.
There are many ointments,
but only one Zam-Buk. Be
sure you use this bland pre-
paration daily to conquer
unhealthy tendencies. Use
it for healing cuts, insect
bites, bruises, burns and
scalds, eczema, pimples,
boils, abscesses, ulcers, bad
legs, piles, ringworm and
poisoned wounds.
Get a box of Zam-Buk
from your chemist to-day
and keep it always handy 1
1/6 box or 3/6 family size.
Zam-Buk Medicinal Soap,
1/- a tablet.
FREE SAMPLES
OF ZAM-BUK
BALM 8 SOAP.
Here is an opportunity of testing
Zam-Buk. the world-famed herbal
balm, and Zam-Buk Medicinal Soap
free of charge. Simply send your
name and address on a p.c. to
Messrs. C. E. Fulford (Aus.). Ltd..
Sydney, and trial samples will be
posted by return. Mention Bulle-
tin of S2/V/ 27.
r anvßuK
The World-Famed Natural Healer
asks ’em to hold any letters for him. That
done, he cuts back to the city and orders
what he fancies. Firms he buys of impure at
the bank address he gives. Yes. Mr. Jim-
miny Jingo lias an account with them.
Bills go to Timbuctoo and stay there.
See?”
Ormond didn’t quite see. “What does this
Jimminy Jingo fellow get out of it?" he
asked, just like a boy.
“Get out of it? Why. lie’s spent that
tenner dozens of times. He’ll pay up,
sometime. Time-payment, that’s what it is ;
extended time-payment. Look here, honest
now, if the chance of easy money came your
way could you keep your hands off? Could
you? If you could, you’re not human. Go
on ! You know whether you could or not.”
Ormond glanced from one to the other of
us in some confusion.
“I don't know.” he held out. “I can’t
feel sure.” He looked scared, as if that
admission had been jumped out of him.
But his surprise couldn’t match ours.
“Yes?” pricked Hardring. “Slow down a
bit. No need to rush back to work. Yes?”
All three of us slackened our pace to the
slowness of Ormond’s words, which seemed
as if they were forcing themselves out of
him and making him pretty miserable on
their way.
“It’s just nonsense, of course,” he went
on, “but when I hear of some man not keep-
ing his hands off, I wonder if, under the
screw of what they call temptation, or debts
or whatever made him do it, or just a
kind of fear that I might, you know”....
“I understand,” murmured Hardring
quietly.
“First time I felt it I had been reading
about some fellow who’d been embezzling.
I tried to put myself in his place, to .get at
his feelings before. Since then, when I
hear..., Oh, it’s just nerves. I don’t sup-
pose I would when it actually came to
What do you think?”
That sudden question made Hardring
blink. “We 11”.... he murmured.
Such hesitation called forth a more definite
admission.
“Last week, to prove it,” Ormond con-
fided, looking straight before him, “I said
to myself: ‘There’s a fountain-pen lying
there. Take it!’ I wanted to know if I
could be jumped into it. I put the thing
back.... but for those ten minutes I
sweated.”
Lively sympathy shone in Hardrings
attentive look. “If you feel like that,” he
began. “Don't cross yet”-—we were just
opposite Tarron’s building. “Let’s get this
straight before we go in. I’ve never felt that
kind of uncertainty myself, but I know it’s
a recognised symptom. If there is this urge
in you it is wiser to give way to it now and
then, so they say. You know the risk of
crowding up steam? You’ve heard of safety
valves? Understand?”
Ormond’s frown grew graver still. He
made a protesting gesture as if to push
away this dread uncertainty.
Ilardring’s comment came to me later.
“Hopeful, eh? He’s headed for the divide,
(jii his own. Once he’s across a push will
settle it.”
It was about this time that he suggested
to Ormond our going to a subscription ball.
"Nothing shakes a chap up to seeing that
he’s got to get it somehow like a sploshy
ball,” he told me on our way home. “Wish
you could have seen his face when I told
him I’d bring along an up-to-the-minute
sheila for him. Asked what that was. When?
Oh, not for three weeks or so. Tuesday, the
twenty-seventh.”
“Then that office suit of his will be three
weeks the worse for wear by then. Shouldn’t
wonder if he turns up in it. I don’t believe
lie’s got another.”
“If he does it will get the sting under his
skin all the sooner, finding himself the odd
man out. Save us a lot of showing.”
Tuesday, the twenty-seventh, found mat-
ters much as they had been. Hardring could
barely restrain his impatience.
“Let’s hope that to-night knocks some
sense into him,” he muttered, as he arrrayed
himself for the ball. I have never known
him grudge other people’s money in keeping
his dressing up to date. “You’ve seen how
I’ve slogged over him and not a thing to show
for it so far. He’s still content to let the
rich stay rich and himself poor to the end.”
When we met, half an hour later, Hard-
ring stood stock-still, as if he would never
be done staring. The cub had over a month’s
salary on him.
“I say!” gasped Hardring. “How did you
manage all that ”
Ormond was green enough to be taken
aback. He gave an uncomfortable laugh.
“Time-payment,” he confessed ruefully.
“Extended time-payment.”
Hardring’s eyelids looked to be stretched
uncomfortably tight about his pale, staring
eyes. “You don’t mean.... Timbuctoo?
Jimminy Jingo?”
Very slight, very reluctant was that
answering nod.
“You do? You’re a live one! You'll get
there! When did you fix it?" Admiration'
flamed in his absorbed stare.
“Just after you spoke of this ball. My
first Monday after.”
“Not in a suburb? With the firm’s branch
there!”
He nodded. “Of course I mean to pay up
later on,” he muttered uneasily.
"Of course.” Hardring was suddenly in
the liveliest spirits. “Whistle up a taxi,
Merton ! The girls will have all the fizz
taken out of them waiting like this.”
Surely the pace could be forced a little,
lie decided next day. The talk of the city
was Greater Guinea Gold, and he caught at
that. If lie could get his hands on even one
hundred pounds, he confided to us at lunch,
he would call the world his. lie would buy
into G.G.G.’s on the ground floor and make a
fortune. All Wednesday he went on about
money for investment, and would have on
Thursday only that Mr. Tarron kept him
down at the wharves until three o’clock.
“Anything doing while I was away?” lie
questioned at the first chance of a word
together.
“No. I didn’t lunch with him. either. He
was kepf to look after the office in the slack
hour. Simmons went off at twelve. ’Flu,
he thinks." True, there had been some sort
of glittering excitement about Ormond all
the afternoon, but nothing had been said.
Nor was anything said next: morning until,
soon after one. we turned our backs* on Tar-
ron’s. Then, almost with a whoon. he turned
to litu’drifftf and declared cheerfully:
“There’s nothing in that safety-valve idea,
after all!”
“How d’you know?”
“I proved it yesterday. Man came in unex-
pectedly and paid down sixty in cash. I
couldn’t lay hands on the printed receipt-
book. so I made one out for him. And after
he’d gone”——-
"No record in the linn's books at all/”
llardring questioned quickly.
“There wasn’t.”
“Get oil! Get on ! Let’s hearlt was
plain to me just where he thought Ormond
had stood twenty-four hours ago.
"I’m telling you. The minute he'd gope
that sixty looked like the easy money we’d
been talking about. I thought of Greater
Guineas. You know —buy in. sell out shortly,
pay back the sixty after it had worked over-
time for me and reinvest the margin.
“Borrow it. I see."
“Yes. It was queer the way it all fell into
place in my mind. The only thing I couldn t
get clear was, Did I really want to borrow
it now that I had the chance? It shook me
up to decide that, I can tell you.”
“You did, though?”
"1 hid it all away in my drawer.’
“lie’s game, Merton,” llardring appealed
to me.
“And then I heard a step in the corridor
and Mr. Edwards came in from lunch.”
The sound that came from llardring cut
Ormond short, lie stopped, staring. Then
went on more slowly: “Without a thought I
handed the whole thing over to him.”
“You what?”
“I handed it to him.”
llardring shut his eyes tight, screwed them
shut as if against the sight of fools. “Didn’t
you hear him coming?” he snapped.
“No. That was what made it so—so de-
cisive. I hadn’t time to think it out. I just
did it.”
“The sight of Edwards rattled you.”
“No, it wasn’t scare, I tell you. It was
just that I hadn’t time to confuse myself
with thinking. The thing I want you to
understand is that when I woke up to what
I had done I was ready to fling up my hat,
to shout my relief to the skies. So there’s
that safety-valve idea for you. I’m free of
that dread.”
Release, escape was shining all over him.
And the simpleton expected llardring to share
it all! He stood there wai.ting for a word,
a look.
When Hardring remained coldly silent a
change came over him. The excitement in
his look simmered down. Surprise pushed
its way in, and doubt. Then, like a rocket
above the turmoil of his disturbed thought
shot the astounded conviction: He doesn’t
want me to be free!
He put the question to Hardring straight.
Response came sharply in the tone of one
who calls a dog to heel.
“Now then, Jimminy Jingo!”
Ormond caught his meaning—not a doubt
of that.
“So you think you’ve got me hobbled with
that!” the youngster cried bitterly. Then,
as if he couldn’t trust himself to say another
word, he broke from us and hurried off
alone.
Next morning he kept clear of us. Mon-
day was his day away. Tuesday came at
last. Hardring went to the office determined
to get things back to the old pleasant foot-
ing, but he knew better than to expect him
to walk to the cafe with us at mid-day. So
we overtook him just as he reached the
room.
“Hallo! You had a long day of it, yester-
day,” Hardring greeted affably to bridge the
gap in their friendliness.
Ormond looked in two minds about answer-
ing. But presently he said, "Yes, 1 went
to a funeral. At Timbuctoo,” lie added
grimly.
Hardring pricked up his ears. His raised
brows shot a pointed auestion.
“Yes. Jimminy Jingo.”
The pause that followed was one of silent
conflict.
“So you cleaned that up? How did you
manage it?”
“Moneylender,” snapped Ormond sulkily.
“I say, old man, why didn't you come to
me?”
I saw Ormond soften at that. He was
not the fellow to turn his back on notes
his gratitude had siened for. Unless he
stuck it out lie would never shake free. If
he weakened now lie was done for.
“Moneylender:” 1 scoffed. “You really
did hand over to Edwards? The whole
sixty?”
Astounded, hurt, he gaped at me. Made
me ; think of a puppy whose paw had been
crushed by someone he didn’t expect to do it.
“You!” he kept saying. “ You!”
“That’s got him !” pounced Hardring. add-
ing his push to mine. “I say, Jingo, wliere’d
you put it?”
If Hardring hadn’t been feeling so mad
already at the thought of losing the boy
lie never would have let my thrust mis-
lead him. He would have remembered that
even a slight push brings a big recoil unless
you’ve first got your man over the line
where he' is not in a position to resent it.
Ormond did resent it. Talk about fury!
I thought he would spring at Hardring, send
him staggering. I saw Hardring stiffen to
ward off his attack.
But the boy didn’t spring. He did worse.
He smiled. Not all at once. It came
twisted and miserable at first, but it straight-
ened out, got easier after a bit. He flung
up his head like a colt that has just found
out that his hobbles are off.
Too late Hardring realised what his taunt,
and mine, had done.
“Well,” he said irritably, "which table?”
The place was filling. The only table
in sight, not fully taken up, had but one
vacant scat.
“This for me,” said Ormond decisively,
drawing out the empty chair and sitting
down in it. squarely.
We found a place al last, after Hardring
had done glaring at that resolutely squared
back.
He dropped into his chair.
"I’m through with that fool,” he mut-
tered bleakly, and began to push the knives
and forks about on the table.
I nodded. I wasn’t going to add any-
thing to the truth of that, nor to take any-
thing from it. T nodded, but I kept my
eyes from his. There was quite enough
trouble at hand for me without, looking for
more.
CASILEDEN DOVE.


•••V::;
I. 'is
V 9
WESTINGHOUSE
Morse Silent Rocker-Joint
CHAIN DRIVES
Ensure minimum wear—
Maximum life and highest
efficiency.
Chains in stock—wheels manu-
factured to suit requirements.
Write for particulars
and Booklet BM 414.
THE WESTINGHOUSE BRAKE CO.
OF AUSTRALASIA LTD.,
Queensland Agents—HOLMES x CHURCH, Brisbane.
N.Z. Office—93-107 Featherston Street, Wellington.
Victorian Office —99 Queen Street, Melbourne.
South Australian Agents: Messrs. ELDER, SMITH & CO.,
LTD.,
Adelaide, S.A.
CONCORD WEST, N. S. WALES.
PURE IRISH LINEN
Direct from the Manufacturers!
h
PURE IRISH LINEN
SHEETING
Haiti wearing Pure Ir'sh
Linen Sheeting, made from
pure flax yarns. Made
almost laundry proof by a
special process of bleaching-
assuring extra long wear.
72 ins. wide 90 ins. wide
per jard per yard
4/3 5/6/
BUY your Irish Linen direct from
Robinson & Cleaver, Belfast —
you save the middleman’s profits and
obtain at a moderate price the finest
products of Ireland’s looms.
HUCKABACK TOWELLING
Hard wearing Pure Irish Linen Huckaback
Towelling. Wonderfully strong. Suitable
for Roller, Lavatory or Face Towels
18 ins. wide 1 , 24 ins. wide j/O
per yard 1 / per yard *'
HEAVY CREAM DAMASK
Heavy Cream Pure Irish Linen Damask
by the yard. Will become White after a
few washings. Very special value
54 ins. wide A/*} 70 ins. wide C/O
per yard */ “ per yard /
Write for FREE Catalogue.
Oar beautifully illustrated Catalogue of fine Irish Linens,
together with Samples, will be sent post free■ Ask for No.oSD.
ORD' RS OF OVER £lO CARRIAGE PAID BY PARCELS POST
TO DESTINATION. OR BY STEAMER TO PORT OF LANDING.
ROBIN SON &C LEAVER
iHsHLin.n BELFAST
Irish Linen
Manufacturers
Irish Liners
NORTHERN IRELAND,
A change to Benger’s
has been the turning
point in the life of many
a backward baby.
Unsolicited testimony.
" Baby weighed only 3 I A lbs. when ft
fortnight old. We tried several foods
then we discovered ‘Benger’s.' Baby took
Benger’s without trouble. She gained 12
ozs. the first week. She is now 8 months old,
and weighs 16 lbs. a happy, plump, and
healthy little girl.”
ĥ
Food
is always prepared for
use with fresh new milk.
Binder's Food is sold bp
Chemists and Stores every -
where.
post free from
Sol* Manufacturers
Benger’s Booklet for .
Benger’s Food, Ltd., 3
; St., Sydney.
Benger’s Food, Ltd., Otter Works, Manchester, England.
If any illustration in “The Bulletin” takes your
fancy, write to the Manager, who will quote you price
for the original.
HARBOR TOURIST TRIPS
Weather and other circumstances permitting .
Prom Fort Macquarie at 10.15 a.m. and 2.15 p.m.
EVERY TUESDAY AND EVERY THURSDAY.
lares: All-day, 2/6: Half-day. 1/6, Children, 1/- and 6d.
.Luncheon by reservation at Clifton Gardens Hotel. Afternoon Tea on Board
SPECIAL TRIP EVERY SUNDAY at 3 p .„, No. 6 JETTY, CIRCULAR QUAY
TeH.: 86278 (t lint,). 1/6 ' CMlare "' “■ Sy4n „ p„ riel , ~t l
ħ
When yon suffer
From biliousness fake
BEECH AM’S PILLS
Biliousness arises
From disordered
Stomach and bowels
BEECHAM’S PILLS
Tone and cleanse
Stomach, liver, bowels
And the entire system.
Banish biliousness
Relieve constipation
Dispel dyspepsia
e
Cm
Sold in
Boxes
li- & 2/6.
A dost at night
will keep you right
t
g>
=<B
5
StSuSsSsS
M>!i>s»aseaSi«f
*4*sasassae£)s*:!aiar^a
£« szr.Txwzrr )4w?as3gP2<s
r***s*;aie:iMi
t'S' ' V
I*S!2s!»*wihki» <*»
■''.yyw^mau
s?r&2
“RING LOCK.” THE LOCK THAT WILL NOT SHIFT.
This Fence is made from the finest open hearth galvanised steel, in our own Factory
by Australian Workmen, and is now available for the first time to the Australian Farmer.
The Fence throughout (both Laterals and Droppers) is heavy 10-gauge, thus producing
a stiff stay fence, requiring less posts than usual.
Made for the present in two styles only.
No. 1 An ideal sheep fence, five lines spaced, sin., 6in., 7in., and Bin. apart, 2Sin.
high. Droppers spaced 12in. apart.
PRICE:—In 5-chain Rolls, 6/9 pei* Chain, or £23/10/ per mile.
No 2 A fine sheep or cattle fence, six lines spaced sin., 6in., 7in., Bin., and lOin.
apart, 36in. high. Droppers spaced 12in. apart.
PRICE:—In 5-chain Rolls, 8/3 per chain, or £29/10/ per mile
SEND FOR FULLY ILLUSTRATED CATALOGUE. POST FREE.
SOLE MANUFACTURERS,
D. & W. CHANDLER LTD.
276 to 294 Brunswick St., FITZROY. ’Phone J 4145.
And at
234 to 236 Flinders Lane, MELBOURNE. ’Phone F 4175.
ESTABLISHED 1876.
G&' f
+\o «. c s ° ...
o°:
,\G e s'
>*' m 6
sSY
&y
4#
&
r%#
7? o<
* # a * ...** ..•••‘</V^ 6 '
#■’ .*•* .•* c*V?JV
.• * .• • "i o^
.•• se^e/^ 3,
«&


THF
: ■ ■ ■ ■■
liiy 1 C|f V
■ W W 111 wl% I
