

tt
m
V;
■
'•M-;
.
■
mz .•«* j| MSWR W*.
r*s
W»*i
1
■
*
■; -•
K
&
m
:i
0
1
grM*ay£
TRY
m
■
■-•V.'
"■ :
1
m
■
~Jtk
.—-
’-s'
£
• •*
• ••:,-
11
?/V : V
m
V#/ !
U- -C:
1
1
:w -*•' 'j&
j.
:
m
tout he Skirt
H
PINEAPPLE
BACON. HANS
Pork & Frankfurt Sausages
1 HOOAVIJ
snwma
ASK FOR & INSIST UPOH THIS BRAND
£xr/?>?
SUPERIOR
QUALITY
The Bulletin
Vol 48.—N0. 2466.
See page 36 .
Thursday, May 19, 1927.
Price 6d.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.


wi THIN THE SHADOW
By MAURICE C. GROOM.
A book devoted to Australia’s problems.
6/- (Postage 3d.), ALU BOOKSELLERS.
for the 1927 New Library Ca<a-
which is now ready and'will be
ree with full terms and particulars
tion to
DYMOCK’S BOOK ARCADE, LTD.,
428 George Street, Sydney.
W IUTE
logue,
sent post f
on applies
Air-Bubbles formed with Soap
AIR
BUBBLES
CANNOT
SOFTEN
YOUR
BEARD
Hair Softened with
SHAVEX /"
Ci/J
m
*
SHAVEX
BUT SHA VEX DOES!
IT only stands to reason that the air-bubbles in the lather of soap
prevent thorough saturation of the bristles of the beard, On
the other hand, SHAVEX is a cream, absolutely free of air-
bubbles, which gets close up to the entire surface and end of each
hair and so the latter is thoroughly softened in readiness for
the razor,
NO BRUSH-NO SOAP
That is the main reason why SHAVEX is so superior to any other
method of shaving, but its advantages are more than this, for in
addition to giving a perfect shave in a quarter of the ordinary time
it leaves the skin as soft as satin. There is no chafing, no soreness
and so no after lotions are required. SHAVEX is a skin food and
has the same action on the skin as a really good face cream.
SHAVEX
Large Tube 1/9
Larger Size
(Double Quantity)
2/6
Manufactured by The Zeekol
Manufacturing Co., London.
FREE!
A free sample on receipt of 3d.
stamp from Sole Australian Agents:
Salmond & Spraggon (Aust.), Ltd.
(Dept. 4 )> Eagle and Globe Build-
ings, 379 Kent Street, Sydney.
Your health’s surest
safeguard is
P UFLE WOOL
UNDERWEAR
Buu it
Wear it.
Made in England by
WOLSEY LTD., LEICESTER.
WOLSEY LTD.,
316, Flinders Lane, Melbourne.
If any illustration in “THE BULLETIN’’ takes your fancy, write
m
the MANAGER, who will quote you price for
AFRAID OF FOOD.
Sufferers from indigestion very often become faddists as re’gards their food, and find
themselves in time reduced to a very meagre and unsatisfying diet. Hudson’s Eumer-
thol Jujubes correct acidity of the stomach, and their antiseptic properties prevent
abnormal fermentation of the food, thus allowing the natural digestive ferments to act
and if taken regularly after meals they so
improve the digestion that a strict diet be-
cbmes unnecessary. Hudson’s Eumenthol
Jujubes are most useful to those who suffer
from Heartburn, Flatulence and Dyspepsia.
SOLD EVERYWHERE—Tins 1/6.
Recommended by the Medical World, viz.:—
The Lancet, The Pbactitioneb, etc.
BSR
ON
The Red Page
Charles Dickens and the Stage
By the time Dickens had reached his
seventeenth year he was master of Gur-
ney’s system of shorthand; and for nearly
two years he was a reporter in Doctors’
Commons before he became a qualified
note-taker in the Gallery of the House of
Commons; but prior to this engagement
he was in an attorney’s office, for about
IS months, as a clerk at a salary ranging
from 13s. to 15s. a week. With a fellow-
clerk he took every opportunity of going
to the minor theatres, where (and it reads
somewhat doubtfully), on the authority of
Mr. Blackrnore, his employer, “they not
infrequently engaged in the enactment of
the characters represented.”
In 1836 Dickens terminated his connec-
tion with the Gallery of the House of Com-
mons, and through the musical successes
of his eldest sister became acquainted with
many cultivators and professors of music.
In this manner he grew interested in the
enterprises of Mr. Braham, at the St.
James’s Theatre, ami wrote a farce for Mr.
Harley founded on* one of his literary
sketches, and also the Story and songs of
an opera composed by' his friend Mr. Hul-
lah. Both “The Strange .Gentleman” and
“The Village Coquettes,” produced in
December, 1836, had a fair measure of suc-
cess. Towards the close of the year fol-
lowing we find him writing: “Talking of
comedies, I still see ‘No Thoroughfare’ star-
ing me in the face.” Years afterwards,
Dickens and Wilkie Collins collaborated in
a story with this title, and whilst the for-
mer was absent on his. visit to the United
States, the latter transformed this story into
a play for Charles Fechter, who produced
it at the Adelphi three years before his
death.
In 1839 Dickens, to assist the manager
of the Covent Garden Theatre, wrote a
farce which the actors could not agree
about, and he subsequently turned it into
a story called “The Lamplighter.” It is
curious that the author read the piece at
the theatre before Mr. Bartley, the same
stage-manager to whom he had addressed
an application for employment in his law-
clerk days. Dickens fancied that, as he read
the humorous concoction, into Bartley’s
face there crept some strange, bewildered
half-consciousness that in the famous writer
he beheld the youthful would-be actor of
a former day.
When he was 33 Dickens had the chance
of his career to prove his mettle as an actor.
Ben Jonson’s “Every Man in His Humor”
was the play selected, and the theatre of
Fanny Kelly the place of presentation. The
actors were, if not world famous, at least
London famous, and included Douglas Jer-
rold, Mark Lemon, John Leach, Leigh,' John
Forster and Charles Dickens, who played
a Captain Bobadil that stands, according
to contemporary verdicts, as a thing of
comic beauty and a humorous joy for ever.
We read that the play’s success outran the
wildest expectation, and became the brief
sensation of a London season. It was taken
afterwards, on behalf of the Guild of Art
and Literature, to Manchester, Liverpool
and otherwhere, with Beaumont and Flet-
cher’s. “Elder Brother” as an alternate
comedy. Besides his tremendous energies
in the histrionic creation of a unique
Captain Bobadil, Dickens shouldered all
the multifarious responsibilities of general-
as well as stage-manager, and he was unani-
mously pronounced admirable, indefatigable
and wonderfully efficient. Had he taken
seriously to the dramatic profession, there
is little doubt that he would have proved
himself a splendid success as an actor-
manager.
At Devonshire House, before Queen Vic-
toria and the Prince Consort, the literary
amateurs performed Lytton’s comedy, “Not
so Bad as We Seem,” on May 16, 1851, the
farce of “Mr. Nightingale’s Diary” being
reserved for a second performance. This
piece was very largely the work of Dickens,
and a copy (now extremely rare) was sold
only the other day to Mr. Walter Spencer.
Iho noted Dickens collector, for £225.
With the keen sense of the ghostly
grotesque that Dickens possessed, with his
faculty of actualising mental spectres and
obscure obsessions, what a Mathias he could
have portrayed in “The Bells,” that still
bauntingly echo round the memorial shrine
of two members of the Irving succession!
Dickens possessed pre-eminently the hyp-
notic power of compelling his auditors' to
visualise conditions of the soul, state of
the mind, and all the disturbing elements
of psychic tragedy. As a very small boy
I saw and heard the great novelist give one
of his last (perhaps, the last) reading from
his own works, at St. James’s Hall. I re-
member that on the platform, standing at
his reading-desk, Dickens appeared to loom
tall and majestic, though he was really but
a dapper-like man of onfy medium height
and size, of a. wiry active but not of
a robust physique. "With a single excep-
tion, the impressions made on the child's
imnd by the various selected readings were
hazy and fleeting, and I can recall only
the vision o£ a man with glowing eyes and
impressive gestures, clad in yellowish
trousers and a frock-coat—a gesticulating
speaker whose knotted scarf or neckcloth
filled or fluttered in unison with his move-
rn ] °f lf i - Then came the murder of Nancy,
which thrilled the writer to the core, and
makes the evening stand out with the vivid-
ness of a searing nig^htmau’e.
Eight years afterwards, in the Victorian
town of Kyneton, the Rev. Charles Clark
gave a “Dickens Night,” with readings from
the novelist’s works. One of these readings
was from “Oliver Twist” and described the
murder of Nancy, and the writer again felt
the amazing thrill of terror that he had
experienced as a mere bit of a boy in St.
James’s Hall, London; it was, however, not
Bill Sikes who had murdered Nancy, but
Charles Dickens, and the reverend Vic-
torian lecturer could not achieve disillusion-
ment, so closely had the novelist inter-
woven his own personality with that of one
of his creations. ... Now that is the acme
of the actor’s art.
FRED J. BROOMFIELD.
Encouraging Australian Poetry
Many well-known modern poets are, if
not literally “on the dole,” then dependent
for sustenance on grants from the various
literary funds. But it is unnecessary at
this stage to labor the point that poetry
is not self-supporting. It has never been
any sort of a proposition in that sense, and
never will be. Isolated examples may be
cited against this contention, but the extra-
ordinary popularity of Byron or Masefield
in England, and C. J. Dennis in Australia,
was due to fortuitous accident and con-
spiracy of circumstance which are beyond
even a poet’s power to arrange.
Some kinds of poetry should be encour-
aged and other kinds should be stifled.
What board, what council is to decide the
relative, degrees of worthiness which, in
varying proportions, the poet and his poetry
may enjoy? A great part of the poetry
written in Australia does not deserve en-
couragement, and: there are subtle difficul-
ties in the way of endowing the excellent
remainder. And apart from the question
of mere sustenance, something should be
attempted in the nature of a national re-
ward for good work as, owing to the activi-
ties of certain useful people, the more vital
matter is now being considered t>y the Com-
monwealth Cabinet.
In any plan for encouragement the lighter
forms of verse can be left to look after
themselves; they command a fair market
and may be therefore called self-supporting;
they do not pretend to permanence and
have, therefore, no call upon the generosity
of the nation or of individuals. But there
are two particular measures that will serve
to improve the lot of the serious-verse
writers of this country. The first is Atten-
tion, the stimulation of' public interest;
the second is Endowment, a question of
raising money.
The second of these propositions should
be the easier to bring into operation. It
would be simpler and cheaper to persuade
a rich man to make a fair grant to a
literary fund than to persuade the general
public to purchase a volume of poems in
numbers sufficient to make the volume pro-
fitable to the author. One is merely diffi-
cult, the other is impossible.
Then how is public attention to be stimu-
lated at all? Here we are again in diffi-
culties, but this time they have a local
character. The only people who have a
vital interest in the poetry of Australia
are the poets themselves,'and any attempts
toward the improvement of conditions will
draw down upon them the charges of grind-
ing their own axes and blowing their own
trumpets to the discomfort and at the ex-
pense of the community generally. This
is where the poet shrinks into his shell,
and the greater the poet the greater the
shrinkage and the more vulnerable his shell.
But half a dozen disinterested poetry-
lovers might take the matter up and
approach leading commercial magnates
with a request for a grant toward establish-
ing a fund for a poetry prize.
This small body of poetry-lovers, who
are not themselves poets, might suggest
that a sum of £2OO per annum might be
presented under the direction of reliable
trustees to some existing literary society ;
or. if necessary, a society could be formed
to administer the fund. Half this amount,
would be consumed in administration. and
half used as a gift to the author of the
best book of poetry published during the
year in Australia. But there is no reason
why the amount of the grant or the scope
of the award should be kept within these
limits.
It should be pointed out to the magnates
that, although poetry does not pay, there
is nothing in that for shameful blushes. All
the best things that happen to the world
are done for love. When sports clubs make
their appeals for funds their necessity is
not used as an argument to discredit sport
If in our little scheme the cost of admin-
istration seems high, it must be explained
that, the executive of such a fund must
be dignified and competent and indepen-
dent. The magnate will understand that,
in these frightfully commercial times we
cannot expect to get all these things for
nothing.
Although the small society of poetry-
lovers who are expected to do' all this dirty
(Continued on page 5.)


Anthony Horderns’
are Sole New South Wales Agents for
John Deere’s Agricultural Implements
John Deere No. 999 Accurate Drop Com
Planter. .Plants any kind of corn, beans, peas and
Sorghum. Can be changed to drop two, three or four
seeds. Pie hill as desired. Nine drilling distances can
be obtained with one plate. Simplicity of operation is
a feature of this planter. £37/I.o^
John Deere’s Solid Steel Crucible Shares
are Only Obtainable at
Anthony Horderns’,
John Deere New Bantam Plough. — vAll steel, strong and
light, channel steel beam is high arched, giving ample clearance;
steel mouldboard, crucible steel share. .
Tin. cut £4; 9iu. cut £4/17/6
Wheels, 12/6 extra. .
Circular Coulters. PRICE *• • • 25'“
John Deere
New Bantam
John Deere
Dain Vertical
Lift Mowers
The John Deere Dam Vertical Lift Mower.—
Main frame is made of one solid heavy ribbed casting, fitted with
wide-tyred wheels. Foot and hand levers are convenient to the
operator. Tilting rod is adjustable so that the cutter bar can be
set for either close or coarse cutting as desired.
Dain Mower, ?A feet, with shafts, weight 7201 b.
PRICE ••••••
Dain Mower, 4$ feet, with pole, weight 7441 b
PRICE
£2B
£32
Comparison of Anthony Horderns*
values will prove that the dependable
qualities at exceptional low prices offer
considerable savings. The workmanship
of these Farming Implements is of such
an excellent standard that absolute
satisfaction is assured.
&
John Deere
No. 226 Com Drills
An Illustrated
Catalogue will be
sent post free on
request.
John Deere No. 228 Corn Drills. — Fitted with tip-over
hopper, steel drive wheel, chain-drive. Built to with- JPQ/CL/
stand severe usage. PRICE ..... <*»*/•
)% John Deere
■iS*3 f£ e dl Jacket Plough.
John Deere Red Jacket Plough. —All steel, channel steel
beam, high curve, giving plenty of throat clearance. Prevents
clogging in trashy ground. Mouldboard is of soft centie steel,
double-shinned to resist wear. Heavy one-piece steel fiame,
crucible steel share.
9in. cut .£O/15/-; 10in - cut -£8; 12iu - cut -£9/2/6
Wheels, 12/6 extra. Oil/
Circular Coulters. PRICE "
ft
XT 523
XTs23.—John Deere’s Syracuse Contractors’ Ploughs.
Fitted with steel truss beam, steel mouldboard and landslide.
Heavy overlaid wrought steel share. Weight with shoe, cnn
6101 b. 4 to 8 horses. PRICE
Anthony Horderns'
SYDNEY.
Postal Address: Box No. 2712 c, G.P .O.


£im>v
ipun
STODOAiL
. > .l
@u4, ufoo nm|o vo
ST UDEB AKER’S
PERFECT BALANCE
Eliminates Vibraticn
Not only the big Stude-
baker crankshaft but all
its reciprocating parts
are fully machined to
perfect inherent balance.
Pistons, connecting rods
and gudgeon pins are
accurately matched to
weights of perfect bah
ance, resulting in a per-
fectly balanced vibra-
tionless engine.
STUDEBAKER’S
PERFECT CIRCLE
Piston Rings
New improved Stude-
baker perfect circle
piston rings give greater
compression and ensure
more positive lubrica-
tion of piston and cylin-
der walls.
Changes In the weather never inconvenience
those who drive a New Studebaker Duplex
for it can be changed instantly—without even
6tirring from your seat—from an airy, open car to a
snug, weatherproof enclosed car—merely by lower-
ing the roller sides concealed in the hood.
Yet this unique convenience and comfort are not
the only reasons why so many owner-drivers are
selecting the New Studebaker Duplex. Every
feature of the New Studebaker Duplex reflects
advanced design.
Under the smart, long, graceful body lies the massive
Studebaker frame and the quiet New Studebaker
L-Head Engine, with its completely machined and
dynamically balanced crankshaft which gives the
same unfailingly brilliant and vibrationless perform-
ance at four or sixty miles per hour.
Pricss of New Studebaker Quality Cars s
Open Cars : : s from £393 to j£6Bs.
Closed Cars ; s : from i4SS to £B&3.
STUDEBAKER BUILDS ONLY FINE QUALITY CARS.
The Erskine Six - Studebaker’s New Wonder Car is now on
display. This little Aristocrat of Motordom offers entirely
new standards of small car stamina, comfort, performance
and economy. See it in our Showrooms.
Prices of New Erskine Six Fine Small Cars:
Custom Models s 4-Door Tourer, £315 5 4-Door Sedan,
To-day, more than ever before, knowing motorists with dis-
criminating tastes, who want a really fine car and know how
much they should pay for it, are making their selections from
the Studebaker-Erskine line of Fine Quality Cars .
Australian and New Zealand Distributors:
Studebaker Corporation of Australasia Ltd., 165 Elizabeth Street, Sydney.
Turner Bros., 396-400 Swanston Street, Melbourne.
Canada Cycle & Motor Agency (Q.) Ltd., Creek and Adelaide Streets, Brisbane.
Duncan & Fraser Ltd., 42-48 Franklin Street, Adelaide.
Sydney Atkinson Motors Ltd., 41-45 Pier Street, Perth.
Island Motors Proprietary Ltd., 76 Murray Street, Hobart.
Adams Ltd., 152-154 High Street, Christchurch.
Local Dealers at all important towns.
New
STUDEBAKER DUPLEX


N
A
t \
V
k 1
\ /
0
\
A FAMOUS “STETSON
59/6
??
“John B. Stetson Hats” are famous the world over. Men wear
Stetsons for those important occasions when a hat matters, and
keep on wearing them for choice. David Jones’ large trade
e nables them to keep an up-to-date range of Stetsons for every
Q ccasion. Here is one popular style.
Hamburg Model is pure fur soft Felt. 6| inch crown with wide
band and roll curl brim. Fitted Russian Calf Leather and silk
head linings. Colors are light grey with black band, filbert with
chestnut band and bind, also zinc with self bind and onyx
Sizes 6| to f ]\. Price .. .. • • • • »• & /
GROUND FLOOR.
DAVID JONES’
For Service
work is not yet in existence, it is not im-
possible that such a body could be brought
into being. And having indicated a course
for them on the question of endowment
and softening the hearts of rich men, it
is now necessary to outline another cam-
paign. They must enlarge the imagina-
tion of editors, they must educate reviewers
and make it a duty to watch the press
from this point of view and attempt to
expose journalistic errors whether due to
haste, ignorance or lack of interest. In-
creased public interest would be a natural
result of these efforts; they would mean
publicity, and the general public are only
sheep.
More detailed questions, such as the
appointment of judges and administrators
and their fees, must be seriously considered,
but not at present, and three things should
be insisted upon: No active poet must be
a judge; the deliberations of the judges
must never be made public; no writer is
to submit his own work, but must allow 7
it to be recommended by some competent
person. This might help to eliminate some
of the very weak work that is bound to
be sent in.
These despondent remarks are vague, but
they contain the germs of a practical
scheme. Australian literature is not yet
far enough advanced for us to proceed to
the election of our Academy of Immortals;
that, like the persuasion of editors and the
education of reviewers, is a matter of time.
Finally, in case of any misunderstanding,
we do not need to ask editors to print
more poetry. Already they are over-
generous in that respect. But we do desire
that they allow more space for the discus-
sion and criticism of our national literature.
FURNLEY MAURICE.
Musical Criticism
The fundamental of musical criticism is
that it is personal and egotistical. Music
is not like mathematics; there is no right
and wrong about it. Even theory, in these
modem days, is a most unstable part of
music. Therefore it was only to be expected
that when, in a recent article, I charged
Bach with brilliant austerity, one of his dis-
ciples would rush in with a counter-attack.
Mr. H. J. Wolfe is the warrior to rise to
the occasion, and he lays it against me that
I have not yet “realised the wonderful
humanity of Bach.” The statement is but
a half-truth. In the article which Mr.
Wolfe is criticising, I named Bach as my
first of the “three immortals of music.”
How, then, can I be charged with not
realising his humanity? If I had not realised
it, how could I have given him the place
of honor?
The who-was-the-greatest-musician con-
troversy has been going on for scores of
years. It generally resolves itself into a
duel between Bach and Beethoven, the
argument of which is purely a personal
matter. For instance, Mr. Wolfe states that
“Bach’s preludes are as individual, expres-
sive and poetic as Chopin’s.” All Bach-o-
maniacs will cheer the statement. All
Chopin-o-maniacs will ridicule it. A few
impartial onlookers will also probably ridi-
cule it.
But, as I said, personal feeling is the
foundation of musical criticism. I have the
profoundest admiration for Bach; but his
preludes do not stir my emotions so much
as my intellect. Mr. Wolfe says that they
stir his emotions as well as his intellect.
We represent two slightly different schools
oi thought. Who is there amongst you that
shall decide the issue?
The important point is that Beethoven
found the art of music in his day a thing
of wonderful brilliance, but it was not suf-
ficiently adequate for him to express him-
self in the manner he wanted. So he broke
away from the Bach tradition. There is no
necessity to argue which of the two was
the greater. A few cultured musicians like
my critic Mr. Wolfe find that Bach ex-
presses every conceivable phase of musical
thought and appeal. Others, probably
equally cultured, find that, in spite of his
immortality, he is not divinely infallible,
and that therefore he is not the Last
Word.
One is delighted to find the name of
Marshall Hall mentioned. That clever Lon-
don critic Neville D’Esterre says of him in
his new book, “Music and its Creators,”
that he was the outstanding British con-
ductor of his day, greater even than any
of his London confreres such as Sir Henry
Wood and Landon Ronald.
KEITH BARRY.
Lyric Singing
The Roman of republican times had a
contempt for music. The only native instru-
ment was a small flute, and the guild of
flute-plaj'ers was the lowest in the city. It
was otherwise in Greece, for there the asso-
ciation of poetry and music was strong. In
the age of finest art and greatest literary
production the work of the lyric poet was
always sung. The musical arrangements of
the time were very complicated, and Greek
musical scales have somewhat puzzled
modern musicians; but one law remained
long in force. This was that music must
be secondary to words and that no excel-
lence of sound must ever be allowed to inter-
fere with the meaning of the poet, to which
voice, flute and string were in the strictest
sense accompaniments. It was not until
a comparatively late date that public opinion
changed and allowed music a place for its
own sake. Then lyric poetry declined and
with it almost every other form of litera-
ture and art.
The chorus of the Greek tragedy, ringing
out clearly in every syllable that the drama-
tist had written and catching every tone of
expression of the intense passion he sought
to convey, must have demanded choirs
brought to the highest pitch of musical
training; and a few modern students who
have made a close study of the subject
express reasonable doubts as to whether the
concert provided in those old times was in
any way inferior to the best that can be
heard to-day. That it was very different is
certain; but the voices blending clearly in
a harmonious treatment of great themes
gave an intellectuality to music which it has
long lost. Musicians now attempt by
sounds alone to describe great natural occur-
rences, but they can at best achieve th'is to
only a very moderate extent and in a rather
vague way. When some tremendous burst
of instrumental fury has subsided the most
musical of listeners would be quite unable
to tell you without previous knowledge
whether an earthquake, a thunderstorm, a
shipwreck or a battle of the gods has been
in progress. It might, in fact, be only a
household removal of furniture that the
composer has described.
That lyric poetry has lost very much
through not being sung is tolerably evident.
True, it is sometimes sung, and sung in such
a way that it might as well not be poetry at
all; for there is very little difference in
actual singing effect between the cheap and
tawdry torturing of words which constitutes
the usual song of the concert platform and
the work of a great poet set to music.
The perfect rhythm of the poet and his deli-
cate choice of words appear to be of no
value to the modern musician. Often he
distorts them for his own purpose and only
in very rare instances does he attempt to
give them their true values. The music is
everything; the words are almost nothing.
If two-thirds of the words are not heard at
all nobody is concerned about it. Often a
whole stanza is smothered in sound that
two or three words of a refrain may come
out clearly.
That this is as great a disadvantage to
vocal music as to poetry is a point that
the modern musician fails to grasp. It is
more than probable that a partial return
to the Greek intellectual conception of the
purpose of music would give a reality to the
musician’s work which it does not at present
possess. In spite of its claims to interpret
mind the music of modern times is wholly
sensual. It belongs to the same order of
things as well-cooked food and rare wine
rather than to that of emotion, passion and
thought. Music has, in fact, been trying for
a very long time to invade realms which it
can never conquer: and a return to its true
place as an accompaniment only of a far
greater art must sooner or later take place.
The music of a song can be no higher than
the song it interprets. If the song be worth-
less—and it genciT' 1 7 is—the music must also
be worthless. l\o amount of popular
applause can alter that. The three essential
elements of a vocal musical performance are.
first, the poetry; second, the music which
follows the poetry to give it. fullest expres-
sion ; and, third, the quality of the singer.
Of these the poetry is the most important
and the singer the least. Interpretation is
always necessarily a much lower art than
creation. The modern world has reversed
the order to its own great loss.
DAVID MCKEE WRIGHT.
Literary Printing
Handling of a book written and printed
in Australia is all too often accompanied
by a feeling that the artist who initiated
the work came to a stop definitely short
of ultimate expression: there is a distinct
hiatus between literary style and the
mechanics of book-making. There has been
no follow through, the parent not being
apparently the least concerned in the child s
dress
It may readily be admitted that the
shortcoming is not peculiar to Australian
books, and that many from other lands
show a similar flaw. But there is growing
effort on the part of printers and pub-
lishers abroad to catch the spirit of the
works they are called upon to make con-
crete; and in a more or less necessarily
groping way they endeavor to make the
outwardness of the book indicant of the
inwardness of the composition.
Printers, bookmakers and publishers m
Europe and America w T ho profess to give
thought at all to the art of the book gen-
erally follow some set technique, and man-
age to turn out fairly satisfactory jobs.
Occasionally a craftsman achieves _ real
understanding of a work, resulting in a
treasure bearing the hallmark of com-
pleted artistry. The story, the type face,
the format of the book and the style of
binding are all of a piece, and the world
is enriched.
So patent is the gain that many publish-
ing houses and printers give special atten-
tion to interpreting the books entrusted
to them, and we see more and more books
in which there is semblance of continued
design.
There are, and have been in the past,
writers who stay with their work right
through the piece, and while not always
with entirely happv results, the effort is
praiseworthy because of the conception that
the end crowns the work. Any fault and
falling short usually lies in trying to cover
too much territory; instead of stopping at
intelligent interest in the child’s frocks
they sometimes seek to cut the patterns
and do the sewing.
George Bernard Shaw and George Moore
have both gone further than merely to
write their books, by joining with the
printer and stipulating certain type faces.
G.B.S. makes a pet of Caslon, that fine
old English face that spreads its influence
over more than half the good printing of
the English-speaking world. Robert Bridges
takes even deeper interest, this creator-
artist taking diligent measures against buck-
teeth and bandy limbs, adenoids or rickets.
There is plenty of reason for the Aus-
tralian writer with artist grain (others don’t
count) to follow up his handiwork a bit
more closely, so that the Australian book
shall not give the appearance of a soft-
shelled egg or other unripe incipience. The
rough-shaped stone is not the statue, the
sketch is not the painting; architect’s plans
are not the edifice.
With the book written there should come
search for and collaboration with a good
typographer and printer. And there are
numerous good printers in Australia who
can rise to the chance of investing a good
book with its full, proper individuality.
BENJAMIN N. FRYER.
A Satchel of Books
Christmas Books (Oxford Press). A col-
lection of Dickens Christmas stories now
added to the neat and handy “World’s
Classics.”
Chevrons, by Leonard H. Nason (Bren-
tanos). The story of Robert Eadie in the
limited war experiences of the American
forces. Told with the air of a veteran.
The Story of Naples, by Cecil Headlam
(Dent). An addition to “The Mediaeval
Town Series.” A very interesting volume
a little less than severe history but distinctly
more than guide-book.
Fools' Weaving, by Marguerite Hills
(Geoffrey BlesL Beryl Eden eloped with
a younger and less conscientious lover. What
happened to them and, incidentally, the
abandoned husband, a novelist, forms the
material of a commonplace piece of fiction.
The Self-seeker and His Search, by I. C.
Isbyam (C. W. Daniel Co.). .This book is
dedicated “To Creedless Men,’ most of it
in the form of a duologue between Constan-
tine Trouvery and his friend. A book of
metaphysical thought lifting its head to the
clouds —and losing it there.
When the Devil Drives, by Ruth Brock-
ington (Chapman and Hall). “It seems
absurd, doesn’t it? But I am quite con-
vinced that I should go to Hell if I did
anything that I knew to be wrong and wasn t
sorry. It is rather awful. Really it is.
It means that you are haunted by the Devil.
As the lady was an actress, her belief was.
having regard to the many temptations of
the profession, at least uncomfortable. How
slie managed to worry through is a tale told
vivaciously, and humor is woven into its
texture.
Three Eastern Plays, by Edward and
Theodosia Thompson (Allen and Unwin).
In the lirst of these plays the action is sup-
posed to take place four years after the
death of .Christ and is cast in a Syrian
town on the eastern foothills of Lebanon.
It closes with a miracle in which Miriam,
the outcast, is granted a vision of the
Master. The two remaining plays, lhe
Queen of Ruin” and “The, Clouded Mirror,
are based on Indian traditions. An mtei-
esting note on “suttee,” the rite by which
a Hindu widow became sati (faithful), is
appended. Plays for the library.
Benjamin Franklin, by Phillips Russell
(Benn). The author describes the subject
of this biography as “the first civilised
American,” because in a period eminent tor
narrowness, superstition and bleak beliets
he was mirthful, generous, open-minded,
learned, tolerant and liumor-loving. lhe
book is an unconventional study of its sub-
ject, being rather a presentment of various
aspects of Franklin’s life than a studiously-
collated body of facts. Every schoolboy
knows the story of Franklin and his kite,
but the author gives it a dramatic touch
that is a fair sample of his literary style.
The kite was made of a thin, silk handker-
chief fastened to a cross of cedar, from
its top projected a pointed wire; the con-
ductor was a “sleazy” twine, and tied to the
end of it was a silk ribbon to act as a
non-conductor. Where the ribbon and twine
joined a key was fastened to act as a circuit-
breaker. “Looms a beautiful thunder-head
behind a breath of wind.... Straight up into
its black face soars the tiny, white kite.
There is a crack of thunder and a sprinkle
of rain. The cloud draws almost overhead.
Then Benjamin notices, that the loose fibres
of the twine are standing out straight. He
runs a finger close to and parallel with
them, but not touching them. The filaments
wave to and fro. He holds his fist cautiously
near the key. A dart of fire leaps out to
his knuckles. It is enough Pulling down
the kite he goes home probably to be scolded
by Deborah for not having sense enough
to come in out of the rain.” It is an enter-
taining volume; and incidentally the reader
obtains much more or less authentic informa-
tion about Benjamin, printer, scientist, am-
bassador, and “dear papa of Madame Bril-
lon.
From Robert D. FitzGerald:—
The Red Page, over an excellent and salutary
article by Hugh McCrae about my verses, introduces
me as one of two Australians to win an award at
the English Festival of Arts and Letters. It uas
true; but about a fortnight after I heard about my
award, two other Australians received awards Mine
was the only award made in my section (for an
unpublished book of verses), but H. M Green (Sid-
ney) received an award for a poem and Martha e
(Queensland) one for a short story. I don t think
any of the recipients place much value on the awar s
—I certainly don’t myself. But I would like c
correct the error all the same.


I W "<*-
» Jr m
prioj
o
Childhood’s Lessons
Affect The Whole Life
Teach your children to use Cuti-
cura Soap daily to keep the skin
clear. Soothe and ' heal rashes,
eczemas and other irritations with
Cuticura Ointment. Shampoo with
Cuticura Soap to keep the scalp in
a healthy, hair-growing condition.
Soap Is.,Talcum 15.3 d., Ointment Is. and
2s. For sample Soap and Ointment ad-
dress: I “R.Towns & Co., Sydney, N.S.W.”
Cuticura Shaving Stick Is. 6d.
i
i
The Rockwell pat-
ented) folding stand is
made entirely of steel and
brass, full nickle-plated.
Held in place by adjust-
able levers—no thumb
screws are used—nothing
to break or lose.
Neat in appearance,
is very s eady, and is
quickly set up or taken
down.
Dimensions: Full height w!.:
desk 16 x 10 in , weight 32 o
Price
(Freight Free)
Other styles from 7/6
Descriptive Catalogue on
:n opened 57 in.
unces.
21/-
a^olicahnn.
OBTAINABLE FROM ANY MUSIC.DEALER.
OR DIRECT FROM
; l
A.P. SYKES
HZ Lit. Collins St.
cMelbourne .
Ŕ
/r!l«
S'l- 1
Ills A
rz
STRONG,
COMFORTABLE BOOTS
' leather l lined, doulrle-soledi
Made, too, on the special Abbey
last that cannot be bettered for
natural, easy-fitting shape.
Fhe photo illustrates some of the
chief distinctive features. The
curve of the lacing, to fit snugly
over the arch of the instep. The
cut of the upper, which, at top of
ankle, drops a little towards the
back, ensuring a neater fit. The
broad welting of the stout double
sole, and smart design of the
whole boot, are clearly shown.
Order by Post
This boot is lined throughout with
leather. No raised seams inside
—no canvas. The uppers are of
easily-polished leather in a hand-
some shade of tan.
45 /- per pair.
Made also in black box calf at 42/-. All
sizes available in three fittings, narrow,
medium and wide. Specify width when
ordering.
ABBEY
Established over 80 years,
313 George St., and 224 Pitt St,
SYDNEY.
L2O.
POLISHES—PRESERVES—PREVENTS CRACKS
BOSTOCK’S Shoe Creams are made in all
principal shades, and especially noted for the
New Shade of Bois-de-Rose, Putty, Sunburn
and Oak.
Price 6d. per tube. Obtainable Everywhere •
H
H
m
2 §5
m
W:
m i
n
t
111
sss
it
K
it
:
At all good hotels
and tobacconists.
Smoke and enjoy the exquisite
flavor of this Cigar.
Made of superb Havana Tobacco,
with a smooth, satiny wrapper.
6d.
EACH.
BOX PRICES:
10 Cigars 5/6, (posted 6/-); 25, 12/- (posted
12/6); 50, 23/- (posted 23/9); 100, 45/-
(posted 46/-).
Sampler box, containing 2 Cigars, 1/- post rree.
CRAIG 8 AITKEN, 654 George Street, Sydney,
Distributors for Club Reil Cigar Factory,
VARIOUS VERSE
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Two Women.
Two women there were and they lived their
lives
As far. as the poles apart.
One carried the blame of an ancient shame
And a nameless child at her heart.
The other she stood from the world aloof,
As cold as the arctic snow,
And no love shared with the men who dared
Speak the passion that all men know.
So she went her way, went the blameless
way
That only a virgin treads,
And she swept aside with a scornful pride
From the sin that a virgin dreads.
These women lived as they chose to do
Till the years were spent and gone;
Then with bated breath in the hall of Death
For their lives they answered alone.
The one spoke low of a trusting love
And a new life born in pain,
Of a world that sneered and a shame that
leered
From a cloak with a scai'let stain.
But the other told of her blameless life,
Of the sin she never knew ;
And her pride was strong, for she did no
wrong,
And from love like a plague she flew.
From his wisdom old to the virgin one
Death gave her this judgment wise:
“Go wander the earth till the years give
birth
To the love that your life denies.”
To the one who sinned in the name of love
In pity he turned and said:
“Through the child you give shall your own
love live
When the thought of your shame is dead.”
N.S.W.
W. J. THOMAS.
Pale Lady.
Pale lady, as you lie beneath the awning,
And paler as the summer days go by,
I pass with bated footsteps every dawning,
So small and frail are you, so strong am I.
Still you are lying as a white rose petal
Clings to the ripening urn from whence it
came.
How could your heart receive my burning
metal ?
Your quiet eyes behold my own aflame?
Yours are the thoughts that only come in
dying,
Pure thoughts and pale as light of moon or
star,
And mine maybe were thoughtless, bold and
prying,
While furtively I watched you from afar.
But, lady pale, with braided locks of golden,
How I shall miss your tiny sleeping face!
Alas ! we live not in the days of olden
When life would answer love’s supreme
embrace.
VICTORIA.
B. GRIFFIN.
The Un-named.
For the gift of life let there be praise,
For the gift of life and length of days •
The things undone that are left to'do
Are more than the stars of the ages knew.
There are skies to cross and worlds to make
And dreams to startle those worlds awake ;
And a magic word at last to fill
The throbbing pulse of a man’s full will.
Vision on vision, the future reels
Over broken arches and broken wheels ;
But a wild bird sings in my heart to me
“Life has not guessed what it yet shall be.”
The thin reed pipe that was blown afar
In Thessaly under a fading star
Shall fill again with a note of gold
Too aching sweet for a heart to hold.
And the soft white angels, seven and seven
Standing tip-toe at the gate of Heaven
Shall cry with tears to the Lord of Birth
For a smiling place on the new green earth.
Is it a fable that God became
God when He breathed His own great name?
New stars have risen, old stars have set,
But Man has not spoken his own name yet.
N.S.W.
DAVID MCKEE WRIGHT.
The Night Train.
A little and a little light
Against the black wall of the night:
The flaring windows cast;
A little and a little way,
With shout of steam and vain display
Of thund’ring speed, is past.
So short a space the echo fills
The unimpressed, impressive hills,
Till, with the new day but begun,
The will-ye, nill-ye journey’s done.
A little and a little gleam
Against the shadow of a dream
Is all that life can shed;
A little and a little road,
Loud fretting at the grievous load,
And life itself is sped.
To hills and stars and lasting things
A murmur for a moment clings.
And some bold “captain of his soul”
Has reached along the rails—his goal.
QUEENSLAND.
HASFN.
The Dark Man.
For ail the time I knew his soul would be
A guarded place to which I could not go
A dark, grieved spot, hid far away from me
Like some deep valley sundered from the seal
A place by loneliness inhabited,
Where none,
I least of all who loved, could hope to tread!
I, with my heart ns gay and morning-bright
As golden fields that swim in hazy air—
I knew that in some stark and sullen night
I should awake to feel with wild affright
That one lay there who lived his life alone,
And weep,
Because my dark love kept his soul his own!
VICTORIA.
MYRA MORRIS.
Repeated Beauty.
Upon this autumn afternoon
All things a soft siesta keep,
And I, with nature’s mood in tune,
Lie half-awake and half-asleep.
Made cool by ferns and leafy boughs,
The air is good to taste as wine,
While all the landscape seems to drowse
In April shadow, April shine.
Wide-winged, now near and now afar,
A single fish-hawk circling soars,
While distantly on beach and bar
The sea, a tired-out giant, snores.
Beneath me spreads a blue lagoon
Unstirred by rising wind or tide,
With silken slopes of sand and dune,
Shines whitely-on-its farther side.
Clear-mirrored in its depths I see,
As head on hand at rest I lie.
Green fringing reed, green bush and tree,
Brown rock, white dune and flockless sky.
As though to voice that scene so rare—
To give it utterance in the hush
That lies around me everywhere—
Awakes and sings a sudden thrush.
A sudden thrush, a thrush that flings
Wild music, music rich around —
Awakes and sings, and as it sings
Transmutes rare beauty into sound.
Slow sinks the sun; round, red and low,
He shoots afar his farewell rays
’Tis time to rise and homeward go,
And yet the scene still chains my gaze.
Sinks down the sun, and in a trice
The vision fades, by dusk dispelled....
Repeated beauty, beauty twice,
Revealed to me, I have beheld.
N.S.W.
RODERTC QUINN.
Galleys Go Past.
Galleys go past from prideful Spain
And old Algiers;
And to my ears
Come groans whence shackled oarsmen strain.
One dreams of Naples’ azure bay,
And one of wine
From some old vine
He tended once in Ponterey.
And this swears by the Prophet’s Beard
These infidels
Ten thousand hells
Shall suffer for his shoulders seared.
And this one walks an English lane
In fancy sweet,
Hast’ning to meet
A maid he will not see again!
QUEENSLAND.
E. M. ENGLAND.
Harmony Valley.
I do not know who once it was that planted,
So many years ago,
Poplars there with delicate arms upslanted,
And, row on leafy row,
Cool labyrinths of dappled stems of beeches,
Grey, satin-sleek.
Where the hot hillside scrub thins down and
reaches
The wet ferns by the creek.
P>ut one day in the hills as I was straying
I found the glade;
It was a pool of green with sunflecks playing
Over the grey-veined shade.
There on soft mould of twigs and leaves
long rotten
All day I lay
(The mad intricacies of life forgotten)
And watched the branches sway,
In and out of the green-gold pattern painted
Against the sky,
Till the last colors of the daylight fainted
As night came drifting by.
And I remember still, though, summer over,
Grey falls the rain—
That touch of red-brown earth, soft, sweet as
clover,
Warm to my cheek again.
I feel its close caress about me lying,
See overhead
The way the little shadows, running, dying,
Slipped through the leaves, and fled;
And wonder if I ever really found it
Or only in a dream, ,
The delicate beech-grove, the dry bush round
it.
And the fern-buried stream.
VICTORIA.
NANCE W[?]SON.


from the
smallest-
Every type of Exide Battery is designed expressly to suit
the particular car for which it is made.
An Exide Battery on your car will dispel the discomforts
of winter motoring.
Easy starting and sustained, brilliant lighting are essential
to your comfort and safety.
Give your starter the best chance of doing its job by
fitting an Exide Battery.
THE LONG-LIFE BATTERY
to the
largest
Australian Distributors:
, WAf ne o . r n Ltd Hunt SOUTH AUSTRALIA: Unbehaun & Johnstone, Ltd., Rosina
NEW SOUTH WALES: Gibson, Battle & to., Ltd., n „ . , ,
Street, off Wentworth Avenue, Sydney.
Street, Adelaide.
QUEENSLAND: “Exide” Battery Service (Q.), Ltd.,
472-474 Queen Street, Brisbane.
WEST AUSTRALIA: Unbehaun & Johnstone (W.A.), Ltd.,
Radio House, 383-387 Murray Street, Perth.
VICTORIA: A. P. Sutherland, Queen’s Bridge (2 Maffra Street), South Melbourne.
New Zealand Distributors:
Hone, Gibbons, Ltd., Wellington, Auckland and Christchurch.


MET 3
■ fe ,
‘ ■
■
mmm
WM ■
I tifl
Mittl!
MriNMftk
i
w
m
m
• :
:
ii
ii&
ii
s
1
w fg .'■■
mm
m
■
: :
m
: .
;
v' ■
■I
//


The Bulletin
Vol. 48—No. 2466.
May 19, 1927.
ANOTHER SALUTE.
"Motor vehicles were responsible for 4915 accidents in Vic. in 1926. There were 410 accidents to children, involving 56 deaths. Careless acts on the part of motor drnei
caused 2160 of the accidents.”
MARS (to the motor hog): “Hail, Master! I couldn't do better myself—especially amongst the children!


The Bulletin
THE NATIONAL AUSTRALIAN NEWSPAPER
“Australia for the White Man.”
Printed and published by William Macleod, oi
Musgrave and McLeod Streets, Mosman, 101
Bulletin Newspaper Co., Ltd., at the Office of the
Co., 214 George Street, Sydney, N.S.W., Austiaua.
Melbourne Office : 154-162 Flinders Street.
London Office: No. 1 Wardour Street (near Picca-
dilly Circus), W.l.
PUBLISHED ONCE A WEEK.
TERMS TO SUBSCRIBERS
(In Advance only).
Ousted to any address in Australasia, weekly.
12 months, £1 )s.; 6 months, 12s. 6d.; 3 months, <s.
TO ANY ADDRESS OVERSEAS - . 12 months, £ 1 IUS. , 0
months, 15s. fid.; 3 months, Bs. , ,
Cheques, drafts, etc., which should he crossed, and
all Business Communications to be addressed to tne
Manager.
Special Notice.
All correspondence to be addressed to Box 2521 8.8.,
G.P.0., Sydney. , .
Insufficiently stamped letters are liable to oe
'^ The 'contents of this paper are copyright by the
publishers. The right to reproduce or translate any
part of the contents of this number is hereby expressly
reserved by the publishers. _
The Editor will carefully read and , where practice
able, acknowledge in the “Correspondence column
all contributions submitted , whether in trie /ofw of
Political , Social or other Articles , Verse, Short Idles
or Sketches (those dealing with Australian subjects
and not exceeding two columns in length, oi, sa V>
3000 words, are specially acceptable), 1 aragraphs,
Letters or Newspaper Clippings. All communications
will be regarded as strictly confidential.
The Bulletin will return all unsuitable MS. when
the address is specified and stamps are enclosed, hut
no MS. will be returned or preserved unless these
conditions are observed. When MS. is forwarded
without stamps for return it will be understood that
the copy is to be destroyed if not acceptable. 1 er-
sonal applications for return of MS. cannot receive
attention. Further. The Bulletin desires those
sending MS. to distinctly understand that it is not
responsible for the preservation or transmission of MS.
To Amateurs in Black and White.
Anyone supplying to The Bulletin original
humorous or other topical drawings in line oj wash 3
of sufficient merit and interest and adapted for
direct reproduction, or any interesting photograph
illustrative of a current event will be paid for same
on acceptance. Any picture containing a good idea
but unfitted for direct reproduction —i.e., any picture
which has to be re-drawn —will be paid for as a
suggestion only. The conditions under which such
artistic contributions will be received are those
applying to M.S.
To Travellers Abroau.
“The Bulletin’s” representative in JLomlon is
JL. St. C. Gromlona. No. 1 Wardour Street
(near Piccadilly Circus), W.l. Copies of
“The Bulletin” can he obtained from him or
the bookstall in the Main Hall at Australia
House. Also from Messrs. Gordon and Gotch. 75-
7i» Faningdon Street, London, E.C.).; and IF. Daw-
son and Sons, Cannon House, Breams Buildings,
London, E.C.).; If. T. Hole, Uolcvth Satire .Scr-
vice, 1/8 Fleet Street, London E.C.; “The British
Australian and New Zealander)l)-17 Australia
House, Strand, London, i V.C.2; F. Algar, 58 Grace-
church Street, London, E C.S.
South Africa. —The Central News Agency, Cape-
town, Durban and Johannesburg; Dawson and Son,
Capetown and Johannesburg; Havana House, Durban;
Khodeshi News Agency, Salisbury; Benoni News
Agency, Benoni; Handel House, Kimberley; and
others.
Canada. — G. S. Forsyth and Co., ))l Hastings
Street, Vancouver, B.C.
U_S.A. — Chicago: J. Roland Kay Co., 161 East
Erie Street, N. Michigan Boulevarde; Post Office
Neivs Co., S 3 1 Vest Monroe Street, Chicago. New
York: Brentano’s, sth Avenue and 27th Street, New
York City; Schultz News Agency, S.E. Corner 6th
Avenue and )2nd Street. New York City; Ifotaling’s
News Agency, 203 West ) Ist Street, New York City.
Washington ': Liberty News Co., Seattle, Washington ;
Wheatley News Co., 70) Market Street, San Francisco;
Wallace, The New Orleans News Man, 105 Royal
Street, New Orleans, La.; The Wide World Neivs Sland,
5)1) South Main Street , Los Angeles, Cal.
Ecypt.— Jacques. Horn and Co., the Colonial
Book and News Stores. Port Said, Egypt.
llono Kono. —Brewer and Co., 606 Pedder Street,
Hong Kong.
China. —Brewer and Co., 31 Nanking Road.
Shanghai, China.
Penang, F.M.S. — K. Abdul Rahman, Bookstall,
Eastern and Oriental Hotel.
Ceylon.— T. L. De Silva, 30 Chatham Street,
Colombo.
Papua. —Whitten Bros., Samarai and Port Moresby.
Fiji.— A. Barker. Suva: Harry Gardiner, Metropole
Hairdressing Saloon, Suva.
Overseas Advertising Representatives.
London. — L. St. C. Gromlona, No. 1 Wardour
Street (near Piccadilly Circus), W. 1.; Gordon and
Gotch. 75-70 Farringdon Street. London, E.C.).
TT.S.A. — J. Roland Kay Co.. 161 East Erie Street,
N. Michigan Boulevarde, Chicago.
Postage Rates.
Single copies of The Bulletin (registered as c
newspaper) : — Commonwealth, New Zealand and Fiji:
10oz., Id. United Kingdom: )oz. to 10oz., lid.; each,
additional )oz.. Id. All Sea Route: 160 z.. lid.
British Possessions and U.S.A.: )oz. or part thereof,
Id. Elsewhere. 20z., Id.
THURSDAY, MAY 19, 1927.
[For all articles and paragraphs in this issue
which require a signature under ihe Commonwealth
Electoral Law, S. 11. Prior, J. E. Webb and James
Edmond, all of 214 George-street, Sydney, hold
themselves responsible.]
THE EXAMPLE OF MAORILAND.
Maoriland has no skyscraping reputation
for economy, but compared with Australian
States its good deeds are rebounding on
its own head. In the last 15 years it has
had 14 substantial surpluses and one small
deficit. A good many millions have been
dropped into sinking funds, so that, though
the debt grows, it does so at no great
pace. The interest bill was actually smaller
in 1925 than in 1923 and 1924. The exports
very consistently exceed the imports, so
the Dominion has money of its own with
which to meet the interest on its external
debts, and isn’t reduced to the trick of
floating new loans abroad that it may pay
interest on old ones out of the proceeds.
The results of having a good, or at least
a fair, reputation appear conspicuously.
Maoriland asked for a big loan the other
day in London, the Treasurer stating at the
same time that the Dominion intended to
taper off the borrowing policy, and depend
on its surplus revenues. Simultaneously
the Commonwealth, which borrows for five
States and puts its name behind their bills
as well as raising an occasional trifle for
itself, appeared on the scene asking for
a renewal loan. It is always held that it
is easier to renew old money, which is
merely offering one lOU for another, than
to extract new money, actual cash being
a scarce commodity in many quarters now-
adays. Yet little Maoriland dug out its
new loan on much better terms than the
big Commonwealth had to give for its re-
newal .
The disrepute of the Commonwealth,
which has even been driven to the New
York market and may be there again or
much oftener, arises from the fact that it
raises loans for five financially disreputable
States. Maoriland has no such complica-
tion. The Commonwealth has to borrow
to some extent for its disreputable sons, or
be party to their monetary doings, because
the ridiculously adverse balance of trade
makes it impossible for them to meet their
external obligations otherwise. In 1924 the
little Dominion exported four millions more
than it imported, and had four millions
towards its foreign interest bill. In the
same year the Commonwealth exported 21
millions less than it imported, and was
48 millions short of the means to cover
interest and other troubles. Whereas
Maoriland had 14 surpluses and one deficit
in 15 years, the Australian States in the
aggregate had 14 deficits and one surplus.
The surplus was away back at the early
part of the period, and some of the biggest
deficits were towards the end. The six
Australian States have six accumulated
shortages which amounted to over 12 mil-
lions in 1925. and have grown since, while
Maoriland is in the habit of having a few
millions of accumulation on hand after
making contributions to public works funds
and sinking fund. The sinking fund now
totals £24,725,645. At last count the sink-
ing funds of the six Australian States were
£20,731,519. Of this Westralia’s share
amounted to £10,054,493. largely if not
wholly built out of loans, for there is no
spare revenue at Perth to build with. At
the other end of the list appears N. S.
Wales with £718,381 saved up against a
liability of millions, and lately the
financial magnates of London made
Assistant-Borrower McKell perform pen-
ance in a white sheet, and promise to do
a vast amount better in future.
Several reasons can be assigned for the
difference between Maoriland results and
those of any Australian State, or of the
States in general. It is the consistent policy
of the Dominion to connect every deep-
water port with its hinterland, when it has
one. It has allowed trade to go to the
adjacent outlet instead of trying to force
it all, by differential charges and crookei
devices, to one spot. As a result there are
19 ports at which oversea vessels call.
Maoriland has kept clear of the crazy idea
that it is worth while to carry export goods,
at absurd cost, 300 needless miles by rail,
provided the result is to create a bloated
city where land sells up to £3OOO per foot,
and where living is so expensive as to be
almost impracticable. As a result its capital
’ contains barely nine per cent, of the popu-
lation, while the State capitals of Australia
average 46 per cent, and run up to about
56 per cent, in one extreme case. So there
are people to spare for the country and the
small but growing industrial towns. And
though Maoriland has been Australasia’s
pioneer in almost everything that is com-
monly described as “Labor legislation,” it
has never yet had a Labor Government.
Especially it has never had one of the
worst Australian pattern, truckling to its
employees for the sake of their votes till
it loses almost every semblance of authority,
and torn by factions which call each other
whole dictionaries of epithets. Maoriland
being nearer than Moscow, it is a pity more
Labor delegates don’t go there in search
of inspiration.
LAST WORDS TO WARRINGAH.
An unintended bit of comedy was intro-
duced into the struggle for Warringah
(N.S.W.) last .week by Commonwealth
Attorney-General Latham, assisted by the
too-zealous National Federation. Latham
had incautiously agreed to make one of
the 70 or 80 speakers who have been stump-
ing the constituency, and in due course he
found himself on a platform discoursing on
the surpassing merits of Parkhill and the
Government of which that official is un-
truthfully alleged to be the only supporter
in the field. The orator stood under a
calico sign bearing these remarks in large
red letters:—
An Independent Is Undependable.
An Independent Wile Wreck Any Party.
The joke is that when he entered the
House Latham himself was labelled an
Independent. He won Kooyong (Vic.) from
Robert Best, who had been member since
1910 and was sporting the Nat-Fed.’s brand
for the third time. Marr, the assistant
Minister, also got in for Parkes in the first,
place at the expense of an old Nationalist
member; and on an earlier occasion
Pratten, now Minister for Customs, stood
for Parkes as a Liberal, although the Lib-
eral League was running Bruce Smith.
The same Pratten has been foremost in
the hue and cry against Scott Fell for
daring to come out against the “selected”
Parkhill, although Scott Fell, as M.L.A.,
has given the State Nationalist leaders loyal
—too loyal— support for five years, whereas
Parkhill has never sat in Parliament at
all.
Seeing the position, then, of three of its
own Ministers, it is consummate impudence
for the National Federation to proclaim
Scott Fell an Independent, and therefore
unspeakable. His Nationalist credentials are
better than Latham's, and at least as good
as those of Gullett, M.H.R. for Henty, who,
in 1922, was one of four Nationalist candi-
dates (Francis, the sitting member, and
Boyd, his predecessor, were among them),
and he was one of two last time. Moreover,
Fell has done more for the Nationalists
than Mann had when he ousted J. M.
Fowler from the Perth seat at the last
election but one. Fowler had two
Nationalist opponents in 1919 and
three when he went under, and all five
were endorsed by the National Federation,
Fowler, of course, included. Yet Mann
was straightway admitted to the Nationalist
party-room; in fact, there was never any
question of excluding him: Jackson, M.H.R.
for Bass (Tas.), and Atkinson, the Wilmot
(Tas.) man, can also testify that pre-selec-
tion is no inflexible rule of the National
Federation. In all these cases, and others,
the “open go” has justified itself. It has
been good for the party, since the vote has
increased and the increase has been
advantageously distributed; good for
the constituency, to which it has given a
wider choice, and more salutaiy control over
its representative; and good for the repre-
sentative himself, who has been put in the
way of becoming a real servant of the
people and not a marionette. Even where
old members have been rejected in favor of
younger men they have had the satisfaction,
however melancholy, of feeling that their
fate was decided by the electors in a fair
field, and not by some presumptuous clique
or corrupt machine.
if:
Evidently the bosses of the. National Fede-
ration go in for pre-selection only when it
suits them, or the}'- fancy it does. In War-
ringah 50 or 60 obscure members of a
so-called electorate council, whose very
existence was unknown to most people, took
it upon themselves to say that the paid
secretary of their organisation should stand
in the party interest, and no other person.
This in a constituency with nearly 50,000
electors, and at a time when the Govern-
ment has a majority of 28 in the House of
Reps, and 19 in the Senate, in each case
without the man in the Chair: and with
preferential voting obligatory. In a feeble
attempt at justification it was asserted that
every other eligible Nationalist had a chance
bf securing the selection equally with the
paid secretary. But that is palpable bun-
kum. In the nature of things a man in Park-
hill's position has immensely greater oppor-
tunities of working the oracle than a man
not so situated. But even that is not the
point. The point is that there was no need
and no justification for pre-selection, and
less than none for declaring that one man
and only one is the real Mackay. Parkhill
may defeat Scott Fell and the returned
soldier Roberts (the representatives of the
warring Labor executives have no hope). but,
if he does, the successful assertion of the
claim that seats for which Nationalists are
returned belong to the National Federation,
and are at the particular disposal of its
employees, will be another nail in his party’s
coffin. And that coffin doesn’t want many
more nails. Three have been driven in
during the past 12 months. The party
has been beaten during that period in
Queensland, Westralia and Victoria—beaten
in Victoria, where it, should be strongest,
largely because the machine insisted on
thrusting pre-selected candidates on con-
stituencies which had no use for them, and
on treating Nationalists, opposed to the pre-
selection fraud as enemies.
LEATHER.
In the slump that followed the war, no
industry in Australia was more adversely
affected than the leather trade. Many tan-
neries were forced to close down; English
and Continental buyers said they were done
with Australian sole-leather for good, and
as at that time three-fifths of the total
output was shipped overseas the outlook
for our tanners was very gloomy. The
prophecies of the day were grotesquely
wrong. At the present time nearly every
tanyard in Australia is working, and many
are increasing their operations month by
month.
In pre-war days practically all yards were
making sole and similar heavy leathers.
All fine and dressed leathers were imported,
England being the chief supplier. English
uppers ready for making into boots
were imported by the hundreds of thou-
sands. The choicest of Australian hides
were shipped away, some of them being re-
turned to us in the finished state. To-day
our tanneries art' making, as well as all
grades of heavy leathers, the very best
of fine leathers for boots and shoes, splen-
did belting leather and bag leather of all
descriptions.
The vagaries of fashion demand new
designs and colorings almost every week.
Paris designers are generally considered
the fashion-setters, particularly in women’s
apparel; but in the shoe trade a firm in
Switzerland decides what is to be the vogue.
Ballet’s shoe factory is the largest in the
world: during last year their average daily
output was 23.000 pairs. New styles suit-
able for Australia are now made in Sydney
and Melbourne within a fortnight of being
released from Halley's, all particulars being
cabled to firms here, who pay high pre-
miums for early information. Nubuck,
suedes and satins have come and gone,
patent alone enjoying a continual demand.
Men’s fashions are, of course, a good deal
steadier, though lately the fancy leg has
met with a good deal of favor. It, how-
ever, is not expected to last; winter will
probably see plain black the only style
stocked in men’s footwear. The snake, lizard
and crocodile shoes, mostly imitations,
enjoyed an unusually long run, many weird
and wonderful patterns being introduced.
Of genuine snakeskins there were not a
great many. The embossing machine and
the dyeing art provided excellent substi-
tutes—even to putting scales on the leather.
Young, fine calfskins were used for the
best grades, sheep and goat for the cheaper
lines.
The snake, crocodile and lizard are now
relegated to the past and probably will not
reappear for many years. The rage now
is kid, every color being demanded. The
re-introduction of kid has come from
Balley’s. Kid, of course, is the skin of
the young goat, and large herds are kept
in Continental countries; America also
goes in for goat-keeping extensively. In
Australia goats are becoming fewer in num-
ber every year, and the supply of young
skins coming on the market is a long way
short of the increasing demand. The open
season for wallaby and kangaroo should
ease the position a good deal. Meantime
America has come to our assistance with
a beautiful range of fancy kids. Sheep-
pelts are being offered locally as a substi-
tute, very heavily rolled and well tanned;
but the}’ have nothing like the wearing
qualities of genuine kid and not the same
lustre. One tanner in Melbourne is now
trying rabbitskins as a further substitute,
and should the experiment prove successful
it may become a standard shoe-upper
leather.
The manufacture of leather belting has
long been an industry in Sydney and Mel-
bourne and supplies all Australian wants.
Many new ideas in canvas, rubber and hair
and combinations of them have been intro-
duced by America and England, all claim-
ing to be better than leather; but our
factories are making more of the natural
product than ever they did. The latest
idea is Chrome leather applied to power
belting, which is proving very satisfactory
where the drive runs through water. The
hard Chrome tannage has been used in
sole-leather for years under familiar brands,
but its manufacture is not expected to be-
come very important. The softer variety has
been a boon to slipper manufacturers, en-
abling them to put out a comfortable soft-
soled slipper that can be relied on to wear
out the felt upper.
An unexpected development in the
leather trade has been the almost reckless
upholstering of cars in the real thing. Aus-
tralian tanners were taken unawares, and
body-builders here were forced to place
orders with America. In less than 12 months
there was sufficient tanned in Sydney and
Melbourne to supply both the car and
furniture trades. Upholstery leather is
made in three grades, all from the one
hide, which is put through a splitting
machine. This slices the hide into three
layers—the top (and of course the best) is
called the “grain”; the other two are the
“splits.” The lowest one is not as good as
some fabric leathers, but it looks well on
a cheap car and no doubt helps the sale
a good deal. A Sydney tanner is now turn-
ing out upholstery leather from Queensland
hides that is a revelation of the tanner s
art; America may make as good, but cer-
tainly not better.
It has been the aim of inventors for
many years to make artificial leather. Many
lines have come on the market, but none
so far have seriously rivalled leather. A
large packing and tanning concern in
Chicago has instituted a laboratory for the
express purpose of making leather, particu-
larly sole-leather, in such a way that
Nature’s mistakes will be avoided. The
ultimate aim is to make an absolutely
uniform thickness without having the waste
of scars, cuts and brands and many other
disadvantages which are prevalent in the
naturally-grown hide. So far only a measure
of success has been achieved —not sufficient
to warrant production on a large scale.
John Hunter Watts.
PLAIN ENGLISH.
Minister McKell’s Pyrrhic Victory.
Assistant-Treasurer McKell of h- ••
Wales, who is a more presentable Mmistei
than some of his colleagues, has partly goi
over a big financial gulf in London.
he entered on the work of renewing
£11,000,000 of old debt, which was billing
due in the rather near distance, he louivi
himself cultivating a well-worked hel 0
usefulness. During 1926 (the calendar yean
not the financial one) Australia bon owe
£21,300,000 of new money in London, an
as N.S.W. raised £8,000.000. in two equal
loans, it was a familiar visitor. hi -u
second loan it had to accept £9/ for ear.
£lOO. Then the Slang Government, wine
absorbs loans as a sandhill doe? bL;
floated £10,000,000 of the Ma States


in New York, having to accept somewhere
in the neighborhood ol' £93, and to guar-
antee the Yankee a sinking fund to assure
repayment on the due date. This trans-
action pegged the Ma State’s credit down
another notch. When McKell resumed
conversations in the British capital over
the renewal of three loans which are nearly
due (£11,000,000 in all), he was naturally
informed that he had set. a precedent, and
that John required a reliable sinking fund
as well as Jonathan.
Considering that N.S.W. has far the
smallest fund to protect by far the biggest
debt, it is a wonder that the demand wasn’t
made years ago. When the amount saved
for the repayment of principal would cover
only about three and a quarter weeks’ in-
terest, it naturally evokes derision. All
over the scene of . negotiation there are
footmarks of a fierce struggle, and the posi-
tion after the final round was this:—
The loans are to be renewed at £99
per £lOO, which is the second discount they
have paid in 10 or 12 years. A half-year’s
interest is thrown in, making the figure £961.
The interest (51 per cent.) is a slight in-
crease on the current rate.
The £11,000.000 debt is to carry a sinking
fund of 10s. per £lOO per annum. And in
addition all the old debts which N.S.W. owes
in England are to begin to carry a sinking
fund of ss. per £lOO per annum from July 1,
1928, rising to 10s. per £lOO on renewal.
On these terms the underwriters guaran-
teed six out of the eleven millions, but not
the whole lot as usual. If the public doesn’t
produce the other five millions in full, certain
banks undertake to lend the money by way
of overdraft.
The underwriters charge 20s. per £lOO in
place of the usual 15s.
AH these matters being uncomfortably
fixed up, there remains one simple ques-
tion: How is N.S.W. to pay interest and
sinking fund in gold to the people in Lon-
don except out of new loans raised there
or in New York, inasmuch as it consistently
fails to pay foreign interest alone save out of
new foreign loans? A paper-money sinking
fund, held by Lang or somebody in Sydney,
won’t meet the case. If a Government
provides 10s. of sinking fund by borrowing
an extra 50s. and having an extra drinking
bout with the surplus 405., it doesn’t pro-
gress.
The position is just that recently set forth
by Minister Pratten :
“Our oversea trade balance, to be sound,
must give us an average every year of value
in exports which at least balances the in-
terest on our debts abroad plus the value
of our imports.”
Until the problem is solved of providing
for these liabilities and also for sinking-
fund payments and renewal expenses, sink-
ing funds are a dud.
O
Democracy in the Gutter.
Democratic government has been well
enough described as government of the
people, by the people, for the people, and
in theory we have that sort of gov-
ernment. In fact more and more of the
government has been wrested from the
people and taken by the party machines;
that is to say, by a handful of people who
control the machines. To restore the gov-
ernment to the people is the great work
ahead of the democrat.
One party is as bad as the other, or
worse. In Warringah w T e have seen a hand-
ful of people who represent nobody but
themselves foist a Nationalist candidate
upon the electors, and the best thing they
can say in their own defence is that the
method adopted is exactly the same
as was adopted at l’ecent Federal elec-
tions. They might have also said quite
truthfully that the same method was used
at State elections too —at State elections
in this very district when an “executive”
pre-selected the candidates, and sent old
party hacks to the poll. It is not only
that the electors’ hands are tied, but poli-
ticians, knowing that* often their only hope is
to be tools of the machine, raid the elec-
torates and do their best to more securely
establish the machine. The horrible thing
has got the unhappy slaves in its clutches,
and they have to serve it or forfeit their
own chances of pre-selection. And the prin-
ciples of democracy go to the Devil.
On the other side we see in N. S. Wales
the Seale faction fighting the Conroy fac-
tion as bittei’ly as if their political platforms
were as far apart as the Poles. It ought
not to matter two straws whether Seale
or Conroy is president; whoever it is he
should be merely the chief organising
official. But so thoroughly has democracy
been trampled underfoot that whoever gets
control of the machine virtually gets con-
trol of the Labor voters, imposing upon
them what candidates it likes and deciding
for them what legislation they shall have.
No doubt most of them are perfectly sin-
cere zealots; that is to say, no doubt most
of them believe they can legislate for
the people and govern the people far
better than the people can legislate for
themselves and govern themselves. But
that is not democracy; it is the very nega-
tion of democracy.
When will the people wake up and,
taking the matter into their own hands,
recover the glorious right of self-government,
which thev have surrendered?
*
Our Air-Force Smashes.
It is time an inquiry by impartial experts
was made into the question of why mem-
bers of the Air Force are for ever “marring”
(as the dailies sadly put it) the dignity
and jollity of official ceremonies by falling
out of the sky and getting themselves
smashed to pieces. These events are being
treated far too casually and as a matter
of inevitable routine. If a couple of de-
stroyers escorting the Renown up Port Phil-
lip had collided and sunk each other there
would have been no end of a row, and a
rear-admiral, or so might have been cash-
iered. Because the thing happens in mid-
air and flying is a comparatively new art,
nothing follows but a whitewashing cere-
mony, in which two or three air officers,
who are themselves partly responsible for
the efficiency or otherwise of the outfit at
Point Cook, hear evidence and pass resolu-
tions of regret.
It is true that the customary comparisons
between the safety of civilian and the
perils of military flying are rubbish. The
private companies don’t allow young and
inexperienced pilots to experiment on then-
goods and passengers any more than the
railway departments put apprentice engine-
drivers on the Melbourne-Sydney express.
They engage men who are already fully
trained. The Air Force cadets at Point
Cook must largely learn the game by a
process of trial and error. Still, Point Cook’s
record has been particularly dismal, even
taking these things into account.
And there is the possibility that official-
dom, during the recent celebrations, used
these airmen for its own glorification over-
much. There is a suggestion that the four
airmen who crashed in Melbourne during
the Yorks’ procession had been in the air
overlong, and at the Canberra inquiry it
was actually suggested that Flying-Officer
Even had been up so long performing
tiresome genuflections over the dreary
crowd of stale politicians gathered at Par-
liament House that he fell asleep!
4
Queensland’s Northern Railways.
Dear Bulletin, —You seem quite recon-
ciled to the closing of our northern rail-
ways, assuming that their continued
running will mean a further lOU. I shall
endeavor to show you that closing down is
costlier than maintenance.
The Government says that the loss on
the Etheridge line has been £50,000 a year.
A weekly train went from Almaden to
Forsayth, and was always loaded with freight
and passengers and must have paid for its
own running. What, then, caused the loss?
The two main items were (1) the payment
of, say, 20 lengthsmen, etc., at an average
of £3OO p.a.; (2) interest on capital cost.
When the Government bought the Chillagoe
railways and, smelters for £750,000, payable
in Treasury bonds, I do not know what
proportion of the debt was allocated to
the railways. Suppose £500,000 was debited,
and that 6 p.c. interest is payable, the loss
in interest would be £30,000 p.a. But part
of that loss should be assigned to the
Almaden-Chillagoe and part to the Alma-
den-Mareeba sections, which were included
in the purchase. The authorities seem to
be debiting the Etheridge section with the
whole lot.
By closing the line the other sections
will be rendered more unpayable than ever ;
nor will Queensland escape one farthing of
interest by shutting the line down.
Since the shutting down of the Etheridge
line and Chillagoe smelters nearly 1000 men
have been receiving sustenance out of the
Unemployment Insurance Fund in Cairns,
Mareeba and other northern towns. This
relief is running into something like £lOOO
per week or £50,000 a year, which is con-
siderably more than the annual loss on the
Chillagoe smelters.
Recently the Queensland Government
entertained a Parliamentary delegation and
took the visitors up north, and orated a
great deal about the necessity of populat-
ing the North. Is the Queensland Govern-
ment’s action consistent with its boasts on
that occasion? . .
The Etheridge railway has been victim-
ised. As a Brisbane daily recently pointed
out, only 10 sections of railway out of 60-
odd pay, and if the Government was logical
it would close down most of the develop-
mental lines in the State, which would kill
the farming as well as the mining industry,
and get us more rapidly on the road to
insolvency than we are going. Is it not a
fact that such a policy would prepare the
way for coolie labor and settlement in Aus-
tralia?—Yours, etc., H. I. Jensen.
4
Goitre Belts.
“Bad Australian”: I believe that “V.H.R.”
(B. 28/4/’27) is right in his contention
that there is some underlying cause of
goitre other than iodine deficiency in food.
Goitre is of frequent occurrence throughout
the Andine regions of South America, par-
ticularly in the Argentine provinces of Men-
doza and San Juan, where it is so common
that it excites no comment except among
strangers. It occurs more frequently on
limestone country than elsewhere, and
females appear to be more subject to it
than males. Mendoza and San Juan are
situated within the great rainless belt which
extends from West-central Argentina to
Ecuador, consequently the climatic condi-
tions are in direct opposition to those of
Maoriland and the west coast of Tasmania.
There being no local rainfall, water for irri-
gation purposes and domestic use is derived
solely from the rivers which have their
sources in the snows of the higher Andes.
Meat of all kinds is plentiful and cheap,
and the same may be said of vegetables
and fruit, such as grapes, figs, peaches and
apricots; but I am unable to say whether
these products are deficient in iodine or not.
During a lew months' residence on the
nitrate fields of the province of Antofa-
gasta, Chile, I saw several cases of goitre,
and the whole of the nitrate country r-
more or less impregnated with iodine. Bui
the only water available for domestic con-
sumption was snow-water piped from the
summit of the Andes.
A study of the figures relating to the
incidence of goitre in Northern Chile should
be of interest to the exponents of the
iodine-deficiency theory, particularly those
relating to the employees in the establish-
ments where the nitrate and its by-product
iodine are extracted from the caliche.
»
The Proposed Baby Vote.
Dear Bulletin, —The statement of Dr.
Wunderlich (B. 12/5/’27) re the proposal
that an elector should begin to elect at 25,
that “it is too late in the day to hope for
any departure from the qualifying age of
21,” fails to impress me. The easiest way
to shelve any proposed reform is to say
that it is too late in the day, or too early,
or that the night is too wet, or something
of the sort. The counter-proposition that
voting power should begin at birth, “the
votes of minors to be exercised by the
parents,” impresses me even less.
It would be impossible to give the child’s
vote exclusively to the male or the female
parent without upsetting the electoral
equality of the sexes, and to give it to
both would mean that a husband and wife
with six possibly vicious young hoodlums
in the family would have 14 votes between
them, which is a great deal too many. In
some States if a criminal had seven votes it
would be impossible to detain him in gaol
during an election. Illegitimate children
would be a problem, and children left
chargeable on the State, and the children
of divorced people, and the offspring of
absconding fathers who took the offspring’s
suffrages away with them. I presume there
would be a rush to adopt human waifs as
soon as a difficult election hove in sight.
When an elector enjoyed extra voting power
because he carried the burden of his own
children, which is a mere duty, he couldn’t
be refused it when he assumed the responsi-
bility of the fatherless, and thus exhibited
superfluous righteousness., The extra en-
cumbrances might be got rid of somehow
when they had served their purpose. A
trade might be done in the registration of
imaginary twins.
In the case of the men who are supplied
with road-making jobs (though often with
no road-making tools) and enrolment cards
in a strange electorate, they would doubt-
less take their halves of the respective
family votes with them. Where there was
10 in the family it would be policy to give
the old woman a road-making engagement
also. The 22 votes would only represent
one pick and shovel, and wouldn’t imply
much highway construction, but they would
stand for a heap of political influence, and
should be worth £22 per week during the
short period when they would be required.
The widow (plain or grass) with a large
small family ought to be able, at a serious
Parliamentary crisis, to make something by
selling her mature charms in holy matri-
mony or mixed bigamy. She would have
an endowment to confer, and the marital
chains aren’t heavy save to the foolishly
sensitive. It is alleged, and the tale is
backed by evidence, that low mentality and
a high birth-rate go together. Still, while
they dodged the grave and the lunatic
asylum, the children of the degenerate
would have the same value at the polling-
booth as those of the philosopher.
I don’t believe Dr. Wunderlich's plan
would help on the birth-rate of desirables.
The baby bonus certainly didn’t. And if
the baby-vote idea would be, as stated, “a
safe election cry,” that ought to damn it
right off. There are too many dodgy vote-
catching cries already.—Yours faithfully,
J.E.
♦
Another Baby Bonus Wanted.
The Federal Government might do a
thousand things worse than turn its
attention and a little of its surplus to the
improvement of the once-famous Australian
saddle-horse. Some of the States have done
a little in the way of registration and certi-
fication of stallions, but financial aids to
improvement have been lacking. And, any-
way, the matter is really a Federal one,
because this country is dangerously deficient
in horses fit for cavalry, artillery and trans-
port work, and especially in the sound,
well-bred type essential to the successful
employment of mounted troops. It must
be years before Australia is generally prac-
ticable for mechanical traction and trans-
port. In the light of all experience, the
mounted arm will never cease to be an
important factor in Australian defence.
Such an exceptional authority as General
Chauvel deplores year by year in his
official reports the indifference which makes
no attempt to stay the rapid deterioration
of the Australian waler of other days. This
type is still extensively bred and used, but
its quality has gone to the pack, through
.casual and unsystematised breeding meth-
ods. These include not only the use of
unsound or unsuitable stallions, but the
mating of them with any sort of mongrel
mare whose owner can put up the service
fee. Even where registration and certifica-
tion is in vogue, there has been no move
to prevent the employment of mongrel
mares.
In Britain the National Light-horse
Breeding Society and the Government have
long come to an arrangement which is
worthy of imitation. The War Office gives
(10 “King’s Premiums” annually, each worth
about £3OO, and 12 “Super-premiums” of
£lOO each. The King’s premiums an
awarded to thoroughbred stallions of uom
lour to 20 vears, to travel m England
and Wales. They are allotted £75 on award
and £75 at the end of the service season.
In addition there is a service fee ol £1 pei
mare, and a “foal fee” of £2 per liiaie, pay-
able the following season. The super-
premiums are paid on award to the best
12 stallions, and to the best of these is
awarded the Grand Challenge Cup. Further,
the type of mare offered must conform
to certain standards.
The British scheme is not only providing
a better type of horse for army purposes
but one much in demand for hunteis and
general utility. The plan is not very ex-
pensive; and if we have no market loi
hunters, India would claim many, if the
quality of those on offer were improved.
In the five years 1920-24 this country
exported horses to the value of nearly
£600,000, and only the increasing difficulty
of getting enough of the right type has
dulled the demand.
♦—
An Experiment in Education.
“Crcesus” : Recent writers in The Bulletin
have been querying our education sys-
tem, one of the leaders of thought in
England wondered whether the English
system was not a complete failure, and
writers in the better American periodicals
have been barking up the same tree. There
seems to be a ’possum up there, and in the
light of an experiment that I carried out
it looks to me to be a big one.
The experiment consisted in conducting
the education of my own youngster for a
year. The boy was eight years old and,
as far as I could judge or ascertain by
tests, of average intelligence and about
normal in every way. I was not a regis-
tered teacher and had had no previous
experience at the work; the course I
adopted followed no new system, and it
was in no sense an experimental one —I
merely strove to feed the boy for the year
on the kind of food that I considered to be the
soundest and most suitable to his mental
digestion, at the same time looking after
his training, as distinct from knowledge-
getting. The ordinary programme that the
State lays down for children of his age
and stage of advancement was used as a
rough - guide.
The only conclusion that I arrived at
with complete certainty was that the schools
(at least, all those of which I could get
any experience) were, so far as they dealt
with younger children, a failure. As to the
other opinions I formed, I am not dog-
matic, even with myself. It seems to me,
however, that there is so little real educa-
tion given in the average school to the
younger children that a normal child would,
if his education were commenced at the
age of 12 years and carried out under a
competent teacher, be at (say) 16 as far
advanced in knowledge as, and much
superior in education to, the average child
of the same final age who commenced
school at the customary six years and fol-
lowed the usual course. Up to the age of
12 the amount of actual knowledge or
“book-learning” gained is so little that it
could well be dispensed with, while the
mind training, brain development and
manual training which are necessary could
be better carried out by a sensible parent
in the ordinary home-life. Further, _it
would seem that the child commencing
school later must be physically a deal
stronger by reason of not having had his
development hampered by sedentary, in-
door schooling.
I found that, though I had fixed the day’s
working hours at only a little more than
half the usual school hours, it was easy to
get through more than the prescribed course
for the year. Naturally, under the indivi-
dual supervision, all the work was done
more thoroughly, and the attainment of
this result was assisted by the fact that
the times during which concentration was
called for were shorter. Further, there was
no difficulty in securing observance of the
dozen and one small rules usually impos-
sible to ensure in a school—having the light
properly arranged, avoiding eye-strain at
work, ensuring easy and uncramped pos-
tures, and so on. Finally, the most im-
portant part of the training, the elasticising
of the mind and schooling of the body,
could be carried on with reasonable con-
tinuity.
I take the experiment to have been suc-
cessful. It proved to me that the school
work of younger children could be halved;
and it strongly suggested to me that both
halves could be discarded.
♦
Judging by the celebrations in Melbourne,
the attempt to substitute May Day for
Eight-hours’ Day in Australia is not pro-
gressing. A small procession straggled
through the city to the Yarra bank, where
an apologetic and poorly-attended demon-
stration took place. It was even poorer
than May Day demonstrations of the past,
when great crowds have listened while rising
statesmen mounted upon the lowly kero-
sene tin and poured forth their passionate
beliefs. This time the speakers’ grievances
were all against abstractions like “capital-
ism” and the “wage system,” whereas move-
ments which get anywhere are always
aimed at concrete objects, like Czars. The
fact is, the real enemy of the revolution
in this country is Mr. Henry Ford.
So many workers are riding round, a-
they deserve to do. in Lizzies that they
have lost the art of walking in processions;
and their wives and families at any rate
are the happier for it.


I
a
sc
a.
i:r)
ajJHUuni nmnnr
//i
n
Till
1
11
S&SE
«-u
f
L«U
r*
\7T.V/TA
/|f»
rfilt"
JERff
m
Polo ancl
Sheep Sales
fclffifflSffafra!
Capital. Paid-up £K%,100.
The Hotel of the Commonwealth, Sydney.
COME to Sydney in early July—thrilling
sport and famous sales—friendships
renewed —sunny days and gala nights.
As for hospitality, you’ll find it to perfection
at “The Australia” —luxury and comfort,
facilities of every kind, and a cuisine famed
for its delicacy.
Cable, Wireless and Telegraphic Address:
“Austraotel, Sydney.”
POLITICAL
POINTS
The Federal Labor Conference, sitting at
Canberra, dropped the Moscow idea of “a
Supreme Economic Council” from its plat-
form, and also got rid of the plank authoris-
ing citizen soldiers to retain their arms for
use against the bor.ioice in the Revolution.
As regards the A.L.P. shindy in N. S. Wales,
it admitted delegates from the Pink Conroy
executive, and declared the Red Seale execu-
tive bogus; also it cancelled the Conroys’
June conference and ordered each faction to
stop expelling the other until both could have
it out at a conference arranged by itself.
With that the delegates left Canberra, hoping
that they had arrived at a settlement; but
each of the warring groups is running a
candidate in Warringah, Premier Lang says
he will stick to the Seale executive if it
means losing everything except office, and
the Labok Daily’s accounts of the Canberra
debates include some agreeable references to
“uncouth crooks.”
The poor slaves of the machine have been
dragged into Warringah by the gross. Not
one in a dozen of them thinks of claiming
that Arclidale Parkhill is Scott Fell’s
superior; all they say is that “some sort
of pre-selection is indispensable” to meet
Labor solidarity. Even without preferen-
tial voting there would be no need of pre-
selection in Warringah; with preferential
voting it is unnecessary anywhere. With a
hundred candidates, 99 of them Nationalist,
Labor couldn’t win Warringah unless War-
ringah Nationalists put the Labor man high
up on their voting paper; and in that case
it would simply mean that they preferred
the Labor man to some of their own.
When the leader of the licked Allancocks
(Vic.) returned from Canberra some of his
Cockies wanted him to meet the new House
and take his defeat there, unless it could be
shown that a non-Labor Ministry was likely
to follow. Peacock, supported by McDonald,
Richardson and McGregor, the only Nation-
alists left in the Cabinet—Eggleston re-
signed after his defeat for St. Kilda and
Argyle is on the high seas—insisted upon
resignation. Parties met and fumed; then
Allan sulkily motored to Frankston and
handed Baron Somers his resignation.
Promptly his Ex. sent for Hogan and asked
for assurances that he could fix up a new
team and get support for it. Hogan called
again next morning, gave the assurances and
got his commission.
It was understood that the one bit of
work to be done during the one-day or bit-
of-a-day Parliamentary session at Canberra
would bo the presentation and adoption of
the report re the Commonwealth Shipping
Line. This was to mean the sale of the
utterly hopeless incubus. But some Labor-
ites urged that the day should be one of
ceremony and harmony and good feeling,
and the Government gave in. It doesn’t
have to do the paying.
Politics makes us acquainted with strange
bedfellows. In its struggle to win back for
the people the self-governing powers which
the party machines have robbed them of. The
Bulletin finds itself battling in Warringah
for the candidate who stands in opposition
to the machine—Scott Fell. The last time
it and Scott Fell met was when he brought
an action against it for contempt of Court.
But that had nothing to do with his politics.
The Bulletin likes them more than it dis-
likes him.
The patience of J. Bull having given out
at last, he set his forces to raid the immense
building in London occupied by the Russian
Government’s “trade delegation,’’ and by
that mysterious concern known as “Arcos,
Limited,” described as “a trading corpora-
tion which acts as agent for the Government
at Moscow.” The Old Man in London
badly wanted to know whether some valu-
able documents which had disappeared from
public offices might be stored in these Com-
munist halls of mystery and propaganda.
Investigation proved that the place was a
fortress and a labyrinth of hidden apart-
ments, and that some of the concrete defences
THEIR CROWDED HOUR OF GLORIOUS LIFE.
THE BRASS-HAT : “Bear up, brother!”
OFFICIALDOM : “Yes, yes. I know. But it's hard to go bade to the fried-fish business
after baskin’ in the Royal Smile!”
which guarded its secrets were 7ft. thick,
A lot of other interesting things have been
dug or blasted out, but so far not what the
Government is most anxious to find.
The big meatworks near Rockhampton
(Q.) will not work this season. Very high
operating costs and difficulty in maintaining
the strict observance of 2759 regulations are
the causes. It is a sign of the times that
the alleged profits of the State butcheries
have dropped from £14,627 to £566, and
that though the number of shops increased
between 1920 and 1925 sales went down
by nearly one-half. The butchers’ employees
arc asking for 7s. 6d. per week more and
a number of new restrictions and regulations.
In a few weeks’ time the Beam people
expect to be through via the air to Canada.
As the Commonwealth owns half the shares
in the concern, 'as well as several million
pounds’ worth of Pacific cable, the unusual
spectacle will be presented of a rate war
between two Government enterprises. It
recalls the famous case during the Great War.
when the India Office, owing to insufficient
information, was subsidising an Arab chief’s
operations against another Arab chief, who
was being subsidised by the War Office.
The great Queensland scheme by which
water drawn from wells, bores, dams and
damp places generally was to be taxed as the
property of the Crown has passed away with-
out explanation. Possibly it was feared that
the Crown might be found dead of thirst by
the roadside, having lost its way while col-
lecting its dues. Four Queensland State
electorates aggregate 342.040 square miles,
and in drought-time a tax-gatherer, chasing
mirages and dead men’s ghosts across them,
would have a poor time. By way of “saving
face” it is ordered that waterholes must still
be registered, but few take that very seri-
ously, any more than they would a regis-
tration of buttonholes.
Barring possibly a few of the beknighted
the. Canberra crowd got a minimum of satis-
faction out of the proceedings. It is a serious
job to move into a new metropolis, and pre-
cedents as to the best way of doing it are
scarce. But to move into a new metropolis,
and then move out again almost en masse on
the third day, is complicated and calls for
good stage-management. The stage-manage-
ment at Canberra was at best fair to
middling, with patches of blank mediocrity.
The cables announce the advent of a won-
derful new microscope whose magnifying
power enables it to show the interior organs
of a microbe. Armed with this. N.S.W.
Premier Lang should have no difficulty in
showing a surplus.
H. P. Colebatch. who has been many things
in and about Westralia, including Premier
for an hour or two, says that loans should
be applied to development purposes only.
.Well, aren’t they? They have developed
swindles and scandals and corrupt politics.
In particular, they have developed about 75
million pounds worth of estate jobbery, that
being the amount spent, in this country
where the community owns 01 per cent,
of the land, in buying private land to
put settlers on, and many of the
settlers and their families have developed
poverty, rags and bitterness of soul. Some of
have even spoken disrespectfully of ex-
Premier Jimmy Mitchell. Now that loan
money is hard to get and is going to be
harder, there is no lack of political people
who talk vague nothings like Colebatch. Some
of them were candidates who signed The
Bulletin’s anti-borrowing pledge at a
N.S.W. State election some 20 years ago.
A curious evidence of the dollar-hunting
frame of mind was the repeated statement of
Mellon, United States Secretary to the Trea-
sury, that Great Britain is collecting more
money from the Allies than it is paying to
Uncle Jonathan. The apparent object was
either to extract larger payments from J.
Bull or to give his Allies a fancied grievance
against him. As the Allies owe very much
more to Bull than he owes to his trans-
atlantic relative, there would be no reason
for Uncle to carp and meddle even if they
did pay more, but they don’t. So it fell
to Minister Churchill to write stating, diplo-
matically and in a Pickwickian way, that
the Secretary to the Treasury vms careless
with the truth. The correspondence has now
ceased.
Britain’s Trades Unions Bill is regarded
as a rather mild measure in Maoriland, where
most of its provisions, and all its important
ones, have been in force for years. The right
to strike was lopped off a quarter of a cen-
tury ago by the Arbitration Act, so far as
unions registered under that Act are con-
cerned : even if a union elects to stay out-
side the Act, as it may. it is bound by laws
that prohibit strikes in “essential industries.”
And an Order-in-Council is all that is re-
quired to bring any industry within the pro-
hibition. The right to use trades-union funds
for political purposes has long been denied,
and the Police Offences Act covers intimi-
datory picketing and attempts to coerce either
Government or public.
It’s a pity Bob Best and Bruce Smith,
both original members of the Commonwealth
Parliament, couldn’t have heard Bath am,
Marr and Pratten, three of Bruce’s Mini-
sters, commending Archdale Parkliill to the
electors of Warringah as the perfect product
of the Nationalist pre-selection system and
inferentially denouncing objectors thereto.
As an Independent Liberal Latham pushed
Best out of the Ivooyong seat with the aid of
the Labor candidate’s second votes (he got
4769 out of 5341) : as a Nationalist of the
let-’em-all-come variety Marr shoved poor old
Spruce out of Parkes; and Pratten stood
against Myth when both called themselves
Liberals —and there was no preferential
voting then. Machine politics make hum-
bugs of them all.
“Old Parliamentary Hand” : It wall be 50
years on Sunday since the second Berry
Ministry assumed office in Vic., after Berry s
greatest victory at the polls. Much political
history, including some incidents of the circus
variety, was made in the next three years;
before they had expired Berry’s majority,
for which in the beginning room could hardly
be found on the Ministerial side of the
House, vanished, and his Conservative rival.
James Service, came in. Service’s triumph
was of short duration and there were two
general elections in 18S0. Berry managed
to rally his forces, but they broke again in
'Bl. and the O’Loglilen stop-gap team held
sway for 20 months. Then came the Great
Coalition, with Service No. 1 and Berry No.
2. With the exception of two short-lived
Labor Administrations coalitions were the
rule till Allan threw up the sponge last
week. Now another Labor Administration
reaches office, though not power. Hogan has
the makings of a good team —a better than
either of the other parties could provide—
and Deakin showed on two occasions that a
minority Government can be eminently ser-
viceable.
Although the Nationalist majority in War-
ringah 18 months ago was 25.677. which
was far and away the biggest polled any-
where, the machine is putting forth much
more strenuous efforts than when it tackled
Theodore in Dailey. It has recruited three
times as many speakers, for one thing; the
list includes the half-Priministers, two for-
mer Prime Ministers, an ex-Premier, the
State Opposition-leader, several Common-
wealth Ministers, and bands of M sH.li..
M’s L A., aldermen, ordinary blokes and
ladies. And all to put one Government sup-
porter in and keep another out; to elect
Archdale Parkliill. the paid secretary of the
organisation, who stands for pre-selection by
50 or GO bob-a-nob members of so-called
electorate councils, and reject Scott Pell, who
condemns pre-selection root and branch.
It is expected that the barrage of
speeches that are falling on \V arnngah will
do the business for Parkliill; but this is by
no means certain. Australians are not docile
in these matters; and Warringah may con-
clude that the unprecedented concentration
of big guns to smash a Nationalist who is
against pre-selection, when there is not the
slightest danger of a Laborite getting in, *s
unsportsmanlike. They may take the so 11 "'
view of the machine’s dirty allegation that
Scott Pell is “an Independent, like Ivay —tins
when it is claiming the man’s Assembly’seat
which it could not do if Scott Fell had not
been a steady supporter of the Nationalist
party in the House.
SHIPS, ANCIENT AND MODERN.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
We’ve served afloat on a limejuice boat
For our keep and a coolie’s pay,
Where we cleaned the glass and polished the
brass
For half a dollar a day.
We’ve gained some scars ’neath the stripes
and stars
Of a Yankee hell afloat,
Where a Bucko mate sang his hymn of hate
With a gun packed under his coat.
We’ve done a trip on a squarehead ship—
Shanghaied by a Gravesend tout —
And we worked like hell on junk and the
smell
Of a tank, of sauerkraut.
We’ve toed the mark on a burgoo barque,
And we’ve scraped her beef-kids clean,
For no gulls trail after ships that hail
From the port of Aberdeen.
We’ve signed for a trip on a Bluenose ship,
And her pumps were foul and worn,
As we stood to our knees in the clean green
seas
And we drove her around Cape Horn.
On barques and brigs, all flags and rigs,
We have sailed o’er the seven seas ;
Now it’s oh! for a trip on a Commonwealth
ship
Where you work when you damn well
please!
Chorus.
Where you say what you darn well like, my
lads,
And take when you will your ease,
For you’ve all got a vote on a Gov’ment boat,
So you work when you damn well please.
WESTRALIA.
TOM JONES.


I
Brown had been
dining late with Jones, and, on
arriving at his front door, invited
Jones to come in for a final spot.
Said Jones “ It’s a bit late—how’s
the enemy ? ”
“That’s all right” was the response,
“She’s in bed.”
A good story and a
good cigarette are
worth repeating!
ST4TE
(XP^ESS
20y£r 16
ARDATH TOBACCO CO: LTD: LONDON
SOCIETY
"and it's
printed with
WIMBLE'S INKS”
THAT'S THE SORT OF GIRL ETHEL IS.
GERTIE: “What kind of a girl is Ethel?"
BERTIE : “Oh, you know, old-fashioned — dam ’ effeminate, I think."
“Lady Dee” : The tradition that royal feet
must be spared contact with the vulgar.earth
on ceremonial occasions was religiously
observed in Maoriland. But it wasn’t always
possible to obtain a strip of carpet. At one
small town on the wild West Coast, the little
store yielded only a roll of straw matting.
The storekeeper was on the dais with the
distinguished citizens, and the ribbon of mat-
ting was spread from the pub door, across
the road, up over the dais, till it vanished
amidst the ferny decorations. When the
convoy of cars attempted to cross the road,
they were held up until sacks had been spread
protectively across the precious strip. And
it became clear, after the ceremony, that it
had only been hired by the reception, for
close behind the Duke, as he walked across
this strip to the hotel for lunch, came the
owner of the matting, rolling up his pro-
perty. A member of the royal staff hasten-
ing to join his boss stepped on it. “Git orf
the carpet, can’t yer!” yelled the storekeeper
as he pursued the ducal heels with the roll.
« * * *
“Selma": There may be no limit to the
uses of a hairpin (B. 5/5/’27), but its
utility is nowadays restricted by the paucity
of wearers. The other day in an Athol car
a two-shilling piece rolled on the lioor and
became wedged. The conductor and passen-
gers tried without success to dislodge it. “I
could do it with a hairpin,” volunteered a
helper. “Any lady lend me a hairpin ?” called
the conductor. There was a dead silence,
while the shingled fraternity gazed at him
pityingly. Then a very old lady in the
back seat laboriously removed her veil,
gloves and bonnet and produced the imple-
ment. “And gimme it back, young man,” she
stipulated. “I’ve only got two meself.”
* * * *
“X.N.0.” : “Stellsby” errs in his assertion
(B. that no woman passenger was
ever carried in a British battleship in peace-
time prior to the Renown’s present cruise.
When Lord Charles Beresford relinquished
command of the Mediterranean Fleet about
3 906 practically the whole British population
of Malta, male and female, embarked in the
fleet, which went about 20 miles to sea,
followed shortly after by Beresford’s ship,
which steamed through the lines to the
strains of “Auld Lang Syne” and “Rolling
Home.” This was only a trip of a few
hours, but in June, 1919, the Renown con-
veyed the President of Brazil and his wife
and daughter, also a couple of aides and their
feminine belongings, from Portsmouth to Lis-
bon. The trip took three days.
# * * *
“L.C.M.”: I recall some quaint observa-
tions in the space left for “additional re-
marks” on the cards which parents fill in
for the information of the school doctor.
Here is one: “The mother suffers from insom-
nia brought about
b y occupation—
father is a fire-
man.” “John,” an-
other commentator
recorded, “has
never been sounded
by 'a doctor, but
has been spoken to
twice by the doctor
on account of his
inside sinking.” A
solemn Scotch
parent volunteered
the folio-wing, infor-
mation on his six-
year-old son: “Eats
fairly well, bu t
shows no aptitude
for any particular
calling.” I felt a
passing wonder if
the youngster’s
merely moderate
achievements at the
table hadn’t dis-
qualified him, i n
dad’s opinion, for
the profession of
alderman. Occasion-
ally one encounters
something tart and
snappish, such as
“I do not believe in
Government doc-
tors,” “if y children
never need a doc-
tor,” or “The father
does not believe in
vaccination for any
complaints,” but
this attitude i s
rare. More often the
parent is grateful
and shows it with
“We have received
much benefit from
the school doctors
in times past.” or
“Molly has grown
much fatter since
having her tonsils
out as you
advised.” It is a
fact that the cards
of the N.S.W.
school medical ser-
vice are far more intelligently tilled in than
the corresponding ones in the IJ.K.
* * * *
“Troy” : There were sundry unrecorded acts
of heroism in connection with the stranding
of the Riverina and the subsequent landing
of the passengers. A burst of steam and
water from the cook's galley .scalded one of
the women, and to save others the second
officer quietly interposed himself between
the danger-spot and the adjacent passengers.
It was only when an enthusiastic man
slapped him hard on the back in commen-
dation that he winced and confessed his
shoulders had suffered painfully. It was
noticed after the long trek and _ the cold
motor journey that a delicate-lookinsr steer-
age passenger was minus a topcoat; he had
given it to the stewardess two days before.
PROVIDED FOR THE JOURNEY.
THE PARSON : “But, my poor friend, if you go on like this, it will only land you tn Hell."
THE DRUNK ( happily): “It'sh all right, Misher Parshon. I got money hum."
Finally, an old lady of 70 not only set out
cheerfully on the eight-mile trudge through
the sand, but looked round to see what she
could carry for the more loaded travellers,
and a curly-headed small boy of three walked
the whole distance without a whimper.
* * * *
“Feng-Shui”: Eighteen years ago the
Dutch residents of Java, where I happened
to be at the time, suddenly went off their
heads, distributed free rice to the natives
and pressed free champagne on the English,
and for a whole week, without pausing for
their afternoon siesta, marched round and
round the public squares in the wake of a
colored band, singing “In Naam van Oranje.”
The reason was the birth of the Princess
Juliana, who came of age the other day.
It seemed to me at the time a small reason
for so large an outburst; but I began to
understand it when several patriotic Dutch-
men assured me that the arrival of Juliana
would prevent the Crown of the united
Netherlands dropping into the hungry pouch
of some German princeling or other. The
royal effort was therefore regarded as a
victory more important than Waterloo, for,
without it, Holland was in danger of becom-
ing a German appendix.
b * * * *
“Bildad”: In the course of a disagree-
ment between two exhibitors of Australian
opals at Wembley (London) one described
the other in a letter to Brisbane (Queens-
land) as a “mongrel,” and libel proceedings
followed. For the defence an English barris-
ter, who had probably seen a picture of a
kangaroo in a book, explained:—
Mr. Melville, K.C., said people in the Australian
bush took no notice of strong language. It was no-
thing more than an expression of honest indigna-
tion. An expression like “mongrel” would lie
used almost as a term of endearment by Austra-
lians.
Many people begin to wonder where is that
“Australian bush” in which, according to
hackneyed legend, the bush man and the bush-
ranger boil the blanky billy and make the
post-and-rail damper. It may have existed
in Henry Lawson’s youth, but an impression
grows that it is now just a treeless region
much frequented by motor vehicles, where
the scarce horse is scared at his reflection
in the water, having had an idea that he
must be a motor-car like all the rest.
* * * *
“K.D.S.”: Re “John Dunns.” Long ago,
on the Darling River, shin-plasters were
known as “John Dunns’ from the fact that
the Dunn brothers, Joe and John, were the
first to give orders, in payment for wages,
etc., and these were signed by John, _ who
was more a penman than Joe. Old-timers
reckoned that anything with John Dunn’s
signature on it was “as good as the Bank
of England.” And the belief may have
derived added strength from the name being
the same as that of the Hobart cashier (B.
5/5/’27). There were many “old hands”
from Tasmania knocking about in those days.
The Dunn family still owns Netley station,
and its cheques are still referred to locally
as “John Dunns.”
... ■!; * *
“Argot” : I hate to disillusion “Topee” and
“E.M.” (B. 5/5/’27) as to the origin of
the synonym “John Dunn for a pound-
note. It has nothing to do with the signa-
ture of any teller, but is simply the old
Cockney rhyming slang for “one,” as Black
and blue” is for “two ’ and “up a tree tor
“three.” #
“C Q.”: The remarkably wide scope of
John Monash’s electrical undertaking at
Yallourn was stressed the other day when a
fault occurred in a circuit-breaker at the
distributing point at Yarraville. Not only
were Melbourne and most of its suburbs
plunged into darkness, but 20 scattered coun-
try towns, including Albury and Gorowa m
N. S. Wales, started groping for the matches.
Also Sydney lost Melbourne telegraphically
and London missed the beam. Being Friday
evening, the big Bourke-street empona were
packed with people, and it is no secret that
the shoplifters had a glorious night. King s
Theatre, one of the few without an emer-
gency installation, was seriously considering
hanging up “The Green Hat” when some-
body thought of two motor-cars standing m
the lane. These were moved up to the
escape-doors and their headlights focused on
the stage. Michael Arlen’s sordid master-
piece immediately took on a badly-needed
glamor of romance.
* * * *
“Seebee”: Recently an East Gippsland
teacher located in a temporary State school
building, where the wind was whistling
through the yawning spaces between the hard-
wood flooring boards, expressed a tear that
unless she closed the school, she and her lo
pupils would become fit subjects for the near-
ost hospital. The dads of the scholars, ex-
Diggers all, promptly came to the rescue and
put down a new tongue-and-groove pine floor.
They then sent the Education Department a
bill for the timber, charging nothing for the
labor. The procedure was irregular and the
bureaucrats at the head of the Education
Department hemmed and hawed over it until
Minister Alex. Peacock took a hand and
made his approval retrospective. Alex, has
never lacked sympathy for people who do
things themselves instead of leaning on the
Government to get them done.
THE MORNING AFTER.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“Canberra is cleaning up. In the grey dawn of
Wednesday a five-ton truck, piled high with empty
bottles, stole quietly through the city streets.”
Fold up the flags! Compress into a roll
Tlie carpets whereon princely feet have
stood!
Inscribe another name upon the scroll
And roster of Imperial cityhood!
The Day has come and gone, with all it
means —
Saw ever one such stacks of dead marines?
The glitter and the pageantry have passed,
The pomp and show like dreams at morning
fled;
Australia Felix has a home at last,
A habitat where she may lay her head
O’ nights and walk by day in sylvan scenes
Through towering gums and flowers —and
dead marines.
The tumult's finished and the shouting o'er ;
Ten thousand guests liav*e come and gotten
hence;
Stilled is the patriot’s impassioned roar,
The politician’s fruity eloquence.
Where are they now, the gods from the
machines ?
Gone —like the contents of those dead
marines.
Roll up the carpets! Stow away from sight
The flags! We’re through with bugles and
with drums.
The more uproarious the yesternight
The grimmer the relentless morning comes.
We’re cleaning up our gardens, yards and
greens—
Drive gently with that load of dead marines I
N.B.W.
IFORD.


“Sol M.”: A quaint happening in
Melbourne was the summoning of
Griffiths by Jeffrey for assault (case
dismissed), and the summoning of
Jeffrey by Griffiths for the same
thing (case withdrawn and every-
thing left in status quo). Both
men were private-inquiry agents.
The wife of agent Griffiths employed
agent Jeffrey to find divorce evi-
dence against her husband, not be-
ing inclined to trust the latter with
that delicate commission and keep
the fees in the family. As a result,
Jeffrey, two assistants and Mrs.
Griffiths burst in the door of Grif-
fiths’s office, and, despite the fierce
resistance of that person, drove
him before them into a back room.
Here Jeffrey found the first of his
three wives whom he hadn't seen
for years and who wasn’t pleased
to meet him. The two ladies dis-
agreed, and so did the men. Among
the weapons alleged to have been
used were a knife, an iron bolt and
a piece of hose. It was also de-
elared that Jeffrey seized Griffiths’s
throat, that Griffiths took possession
of Jeffrey’s ear, and that there was
miscellaneous kicking and biting.
In the court, Jeffrey denied having
ever beaten liis first wife, and Grif-
fiths denied having been thrashed
by his mother-in-law a few days be-
fore the mix-up. It all suggests
that detecting is a rugged business
instead of the delicate and diplo-
matic art described in novels.
*s* #
“Flagwagger”: Responding to
an Anzac Day invitation, I found
that an A.I.F. cobber had been re-
inforced by two young Diggers to
help him pay off his war-service
home The pair, aged seven and six.
induced me to join them in a game
with some, resemblance to snakes
and ladders, an invention of their
father’s. The paraphernalia con-
sisted of a dice-box. colored “men”
and a large board divided into
numbered squares, many of which
contained rough sketches and
words. There were dozens of re-
wards and penalties, among the
former being: “Attack on Abdul,
proceed to Lone Pine,” “Promotion,
proceed to Corporal,” “Brave Act,
go to D.C.M..” “Fritz giving ground,
advance to First Objective,” and
“Money from Home, go to Com-
monwealth Bank.” The penalties
were even more numerous. Among
them are these: “Transport South-
land torpedoed, miss two turns to
be picked up by ships standing by,”
“Serg.-Major a nark, wait one
turn to do fatigue,” “Routine
Orders, miss one turn to polish
up and be inspected by Billy
Hughes and Andy Fisher,” “A gut-
zer on telling Dr. Ryan a tale, re-
turn to Front Line,” “Fritz strafing
wait in Dug-out one turn,” “Esta-
minet, go inside for one turn to
indulge in vin-blanc.” But what
took my fancy most was: “Blighty
Leave, miss three turns to marry
London Girl.” The inventor of the
game, on leave from France in 1917.
had met and married the kids’
mother within three days.
X ❖ sfc *J*
“Old Seafarer”: Here is a sailing per-
formance worth recording. The Herzogin
C’ecilie, a four-masted barque, formerly a
German training-ship, but now a Finnish
cargo-carrier, made the voyage from Port
Lincoln (S.A. i to Queenstown, Ireland, in
88 days with a load of wheat. Incidentally,
she beat 12 other wheat ships. The famous
Thermopylae and Cutty Sark averaged 78
and 73 days respectively for their four best
passages with cargoes of wool, but they were
clippers built for speed rather than for
cargo. Another race lo the Channel is pro-
ceeding between the E. 11. Sterling, an
American six-masted barquentine. and the
four-masted Garth pool and Olivebank. and
one of these may beat the Herzogin Cecilie’s
time.
* * * *
“Selma”: The irate wife who tracks her
philandering husband and the other lady to
the fashionable tearoom and overturns the
table as a sign of her strong disapproval,
broke out in a new place the other day. She
waylaid the disturber of her happiness in a
suburban street, and in business-like fashion
set about letting her know just what others
thought of her. Alarmed householders
attempted to interfere, whereupon the belli-
gerent one informed them that this was only
a preliminary to what she intended to do if
the damsel appeared with her husband in
public again. When the somewhat damaged
third party managed to escape, some local
inhabitants detained the pugilistic lady, who
sat amiably on the roadside awaiting the
arrival of the police. When the officer
loomed up she rose with dignity, introduced
herself, stated her case, handed him her visit-
ing-card, address and telephone number, and
mentioned that she would be at home any
morning that week. “Well,” remarked the
Law when he had digested the facts, “I dunno
that I’ll need you. Her people can’t make
a fuss. But I’ll say this,” he added
solemnly, "if there was more like you the
Divorce Court would soon be working half-
time.”
* * !*! *
“Smada”: Philatelically considered, the
new Canberra postage-stamp annoys me. The
lady designed to represent Australia is appa-
rently sitting on nothing, waving a palm
frond over an empty Parliament House —
there’s not a human being in sight or n
vehicle of any kind outside the massive pile.
Her attire is equally puzzling. She has rolled
THE PENITENT.
"Mr. MeKell, the Assistant Treasurer of N. S. Wales, has arranged to float a renewal loan in London
with a sinking fund attached, and has agreed that a sinking fund shall be attached to all existing
and future loans.”
up her sleeves, as if she were expecting the
homecoming of her husband, but why she
should wear several motor tyres over her left
arm remains a dark puzzle. Her voluminous
skirts are quite out of fashion, and her hair
is not even shingled. And this representa-
tion of Australia, without a rabbit or a
fence or a eucalypt or a loan or a poli-
tician in the landscape, is being broadcast
over the globe!
* * !*t *
“L.C.M.”: Free and easy may lie the ways
of some hotels (B. 28/4/’27), especially
those kept by the cheerful sons of Erin ; but
put a hotel in the charge of a stern Scots
Calvinist, and a female to boot, and you’ll
have quite a different tale to tell. I know
of one.such. Not for love or money is the
bar-room unlocked after (i p.m. or on Sun-
days. What’s more, “elders’ hours” and
Sabbath keeping are enforced on her guests.
Every night at half-past ten, when the
sitting-room fire is burning cosily and knights
of the road are swapping yarns, this sanc-
tum is invaded by the proprietress, in grizzled
curl-papers. She puts the fire out —with a
watering-can. which she carries for the pur-
pose—and stands by while its occupants tidy
the apartment by pushing their chairs back
against the walls and folding up their news-
papers. Then with a stately “Good-night,
gentlemen,” Scotland’s nride stalks off to
Pod, and quiet descends on the hotel. If
quiet does not descend, Scotland’s pride does
—in a grim grey dressing-gown—and offend-
ing chatterers scuttle at her footstep. One
Sunday four worthy gentlemen attempted to
play cards in one of the bedrooms. But
Scotland’s pride lias ears like bees, and flung
the door wifie open. “Forty-two years have
I kept this hotel and cards on the Sabbath I
will not abide. Ye can go out for a good
healthy walk, the four of you!” They went
and she triumphantly confiscated the cards.
:i: * * *
“Borom” : Our postal authorities, in com-
mon with those in many other parts of the
world, are again being pestered by the absurd
chain-letter nuisance, whose complete exter-
mination seems ,to be an impossibility. The
superstitious gullibility of man is well illus-
trated by the fact that the chain-letter which
is being circulated the most vigorously in
Australia at present was started in France
just after the Armistice by an American
officer. Since then it has appeared in prac-
tically every part of the world, and has
probably been passed on by a million dif-
fenent persons. It made its appearance in
this country about 18 months ago and in
the interval has secured such a hold that it is
doubtful if it will ever be stamped out
entirely, since it can always be revived while
there is so much as one copy of it in
existence.
* * * *
“Ranar”: The mandarins who decreed that
the Duke of York should merely nod to the
T.B. patients in the Caulfield Military Hos-
pital instead of shaking hands with them
(B. 5/5/'27) have presumably not out-
grown the old belief that tuberculosis may
be transmitted by contact. This delusion
was long ago exploded by science, but there
are still persons so' foolish that they will
go to ridiculous lengths to avoid a non-
existent risk. There is, of course, no possi-
bility of infection by touching the hand of
a tubercular patient, and only gross ignor-
ance could be responsible for the cruel veto,
for which it is safe to say that the Duke
himself was in no way responsible.
* * * *
“X2X”: It is an undoubted fact that
ability to bear pain is in direct ratio to the
mental dulness. or backwardness of the
subject (B. 5/5/'27). In hospital casualty-
rooms one may perpetually see persons be-
longing to the coarser and more animal types
endure without a murmur physical suffering
which would necessitate the administration
of a narcotic to those of higher intelligence.
Yet, curiously enough, the worst cases of
shell-shock which I encountered during the
war were among the class which is least
sensitive to ordinary pain, and the higher
mental types suffered the least. The only
explanation I ever heard advanced is that
the latter were possessed of a greater degree
of mental resilience, so to speak, with the
result that their minds absorbed the shock
just as india-rubber absorbs physical shock.
“Chancery Lane”: A man appeared re-
cently at a Melbourne suburban police-court
to answer an affiliation summons. The P.M.
recognised him as one against whom he had
made two orders under the same Act. “You
arc getting a good wage,” remarked his Wor-
ship before giving his decision, “why don't
you try a wife?” “I did,” came the unex-
pected response, “but the husband half-killed
me.”
* * * *
“M.G.S.”: Joanna Southcott,
whose name cropped up in the
cables the other day, is practically
unknown to the present genera-
tion, but there was a time when
she cut more ice than Annie Besant
does nowadays Having learned the
art of divination from a prophet
named Sanderson, she announced
that she would be delivered of the
Prince of Peace at midnight on
Oct. 19.* ISI4, and unquestioning
multitudes anxiously awaited the
event. The actual date found her
in a trance induced by a disease
whose symptoms favored her delu-
sion—or some of it- —and she died
two months later. The sect she
founded survived her for over half
a century, and many people never
wavered in their belief in her super-
natural powers, principally because
she left a sealed box which she
willed should never be opened, ex-
cept by a bench of bishops, and suf-
ficient of these could never be found
to undertake the job. Unfortunately
the alleged prophetess was unable
to foresee the discovery of the X-
ray. Without offending against the
will the British Laboratory of Phy-
sical Science took a snap of the
casket recently. It contains a horse-
pistol, ear-rings, coins, a roll of
MS. and a sponge.
❖ ❖ ❖
“Knib”: There is a good deal to
be said for the abolition of proces-
sions through the streets of large
cities. After the first 10 minutes
they become wearisome. Delighted
as Melbourne was to see the Anzacs
on April 25, it wished devoutly that
it could have seen them without
having to spend IGO minutes in one
place. It took the parade 100 min-
utes to pass a given point, and it
was necessary to be there an hour
beforehand to be sure of even a
semi-reserved spot. The Eigld
Hours’ show in Melbourne is dwind-
ling because street marching has
ceased to be attractive, and now
that opposition has ceased to tin;
St. Patrick’s Day parade, it also is
less of a draw. “Ye see,” said a pro-
processionist, “if there’s goin’ to b«
a row on the sivinteentli, I’ll bo
there, but if it’s nice an’ peaceful,
with everybody cheerin’ —well. I'll
be off to the races to pick a winner
or two.”
* * *
“Wizard”: The finest-mannered
lady I ever met in my life was
French. Near the Somme estuary,
at the town of St. Valery, there was
a large rest-camp, from which hun-
dreds of Englishmen and Austra-
lians would emerge every day for
a swim in the river. One morning,
when the tide was out and the
river lay low between its high
banks, the south side was lined for
hundreds of yards with nude bath-
ers. Suddenly, like a bolt from
the blue. Miladi appeared over the
top of the bank, accbmpanied by a
small boy. probably her little
brother, both carrying buckets. She
gave no “stagey” little shriek: like
the grande dame she was, she held on
her course as if there was not a soul
in view. Looking neither to right
nor to left she descended the steep
bank to the water’s edge. The
buckets were filled, and, without
a sign of being aware of the pre-
sence of anyone but herself and her
small escort, she vanished as sud-
denly as she had ai'neared. Some
of us. after the first startled gasp,
plunged into the river; others
silently did the smartest “about-
turn” they had ever accomplished:
but not a laugh, even of embar-
rassment. not a word from anyone marked
the incident. All measured up to the stan-
dard the. Frenchwoman had set.
i'fi ❖ * *
“Strict Veg.” : The poetry of real life? A
chauffeur, aged 47, faced a b.-of-p. action at
Ballarat brought by a cook, and a letter
was produced in which lie wrote: “I hope
you are having a good time walking round
with the dog. I wish I was the dog.”
* ♦ ♦ *
“Ignotus” : I was talking to a Melbourne
suburban draper when a woman entered the
shop and interrupted our conversation by
asking briskly how much she owed. My
friend promptly retired into a ledger, and
dug out of it the information that £2 15s.
had been owing to the establishment by this
particular customer for a little over nine years.
The lady paid the account smilingly, and
took her leave with a word or two of apology
for her tardiness. I expressed my surprise
at any tradesman keeping a record of a debt
for all those years. “Well,” said Haberdash.
seiitentiously, as he restored the ledger to ifs
place, “a man never knows. She always dia
a bit of punting and reckoned she would get
a turn-up some day.”
AN ODE TO AUTUMN.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The pear hangs mellow in the orchard now
(This fallowin’ fruit-trees, ain’t it just a
cow?),
Che drowsy hours are rich with languor
sweet
i.By cripos! those saffrons scratch your
aching feet),
Che ripening apples in the sunlight burn
(The Devil planted this ’ere bracken fern),
The purple clusters load the trailing vine
(Those rabbits whiff along the poison line).
Che russet leaves drop quivering from the
trees
(The burrs are scratching pieces from my
knees),
Che gentle east wind tells that rain is near
(These spuds ain’t half the size they wuz
last year).
How sweet and wonderful these bright days
seem
(I wonder when they'll raise the price of
cream) ;
But soon hale hoary winter will
hold sway
(Old Stores is always pressing me
to pay),
Soon languid autumn flees beneath
his stroke
(Another year like this will break
a bloke).
N.s.w.
BILLO.


! •S' ■
;> . if
v-
W£sS*9
>"4 .
m
M
U«y
»j
■ ii
-
MB
>:* ' ;
■
m
■si
.
BHHs
BH
\ : '; s
i II
as
mpw
'
ost
mm
W*i
Beautiful
CHEVROLET
in
A Host of
IMPROVEMENTS INCLUDE
A.C. Air Cleaner—preventing dirt and grit from
entering the carburettor.
New A.C. Oil Filter removes all impurities from
the oil.
New Co-Incidental Ignition and Steering Lock.
New Duco Colors. New Running Boards,
New Petrol Gauge. New Radiator.
New Bodies. New Spare-Tyre Carrier.
New Bullet-Type Head and Cowl Lamps.
New Windshield Pillars on closed cars.
New 17-in. Steering Wheel.
New Heavy One-Piece Full Crown Fenders.
New Transmission,
New Brake and Clutch Pedal Closure.
New Universal Joint SeaL
New Body Hardware.
All Improvements Included
in Advertised Prices
a S a climax to the most outstanding automotive success in
A recent years, Chevrolet announces today the greatest
triumph of its history-a complete line of cars mechanically finer,
entirely new in line and color, and offering features of distinction
hitherto undreamed of in the low-priced car field.
iOnly the tremendous growth of Chevrolet popularity— only the
economies of volume production make it possible to build so fine a
i car to sell at Chevrolet prices.
New bodies of symmetrical lines finished in an original Duo-tone Duco
effect-lower in height, giving a pleasingly long appearance-an
individuality that is usually associated with costlier cars —in fact
“ the most beautiful Chevrolet in Chevrolet history.”
FIVE PASSENGER O 1 QE%
TOURING MODEL SI
The Roadster, £195 Sport Roadster, £215
Two Door Sedan, £255 Four Door Sedan, £290
At Company*s Works, All States
mm
*
m
3
m
m
\ •'
*
m
iS
:
?5
m
s -' s’ ; * *' * *
%\ A\ '
> t! «b' »
*'
■ }'■ »\» ** »*
» ' * ,
,’ . #
* t
€ $
# ,-y **.v ~
', .'- J'— : f'> f •* 4,
■ •• :,«*.’ *
' 1 '*> * -
V ' l ~\s'''' 1 „
\ -- *
i ; -
%.#
. &> - . X
c > *
, '\V.^:?\
C“ ;3.> ~?:>
l®
X;.; * 3
CHEVROLET
ALL EQUIPPED WITH FIVE
BALLOON TYRES & TUBES
Buy From
Your Local Dealer
WHO WILL DEMONSTRATE WITH PLEASURE
Metropolitan Distributors:—
JOHN McGRATH, LTD.,
181 Elizabeth Street, Sydney.
GENERAL MOTORS (Anst.) PTY. LTD.
Melbourne • Sydney * Brisbane • Adelaide • Perth


ii
The one and only ”
R&sJ
m/
m
m
m
Anybody can make cigarettes, sir, but
there’s only one man who can make
cigarettes 4 4 as good as really good
cigarettes can be. ”
Exactly, sir! The
man who makes Kensitas.
Cigarettes
Manufacturers: J. WIX & SONS, LTD., London, Enttland
S '^4£-
‘Also in Boxes a
ofso and 100
“Iverys”: It isn’t only the buyer of the
second-hand car who is liable to find strange
articles in his vehicle (B. 5/5/’26). During
the height of the recent gale a motorist who
had parked his car in a city by-street near
a dance-hall thought he heard a rattling
sound as he drove away, but put it down to
the rain and wind. Next morning, in the
back, he found two full bottles of whisky and
four smashed glasses. Another motorist
was sitting at breakfast when his indignant
wife entered with an ornamental hair-clip
and a handkerchief marked “Thelma.” She
had retrieved them from the car, and nothing
would persuade her that an innocent man
sat before her. His suggestion that while
he was still in his office the evening before
some privacy-loving couple had borrowed the
car for a quiet half-hour was received with
scorn, and all young women labelled Thelma
are at present under suspicion.
❖ * * $
“Ibn el Issar”: There is a touch of
humor in the cabled story of the reception
accorded the Anzae delegates to Palestine
by the Ilejaz Bedouin. At Amman, a place
which the Anzac M.D. will doubtless recall
with affection, each of the party was pre-
sented with a splendid Arab horse. The
ALL. High Commissioner politely declined
his nag, on the ground of the difficulty of
getting it to a seaport, and asked that it
be kept till he called again; the rest of the
party followed his lead. It is safe to assume
that Arab etiquette rather than transport
difficulties dictated the Maorilander’s refusal.
As tributes in the East are “touched and
remitted” by authority, so are presents of
this nature. In the same way, a Bedouin
host will call a distinguished guest’s atten-
tion to his unveiled women-folk and invite
him to help himself. Anyone accept-
ing such presents or invitations in a
literal spirit would strike a peck of trouble.
“Shed Hand”: Re pilfering of goods in
transit. At one stage of my shady career
I worked in a gang on the night shift of a
city railway goods-shed. One night it started
to rain unexpectedly and the watchman, hav-
ing some duties to perform in the transit-
yard, began cursing his ill-luck. His oiler
and umbrella were at home, and he asked
each member of the shift for a lend of theirs,
but without success. Nobody had dreamed of
rain that night and all protective gear had
been left behind. So the watchman went
out to be drenched to the skin in the down-
pour. It was still raining at knock-off time
in the morning, but, curiously enough, every
man on night shift, including myself, hit the
homeward track with a waterproof around
him and an umbrella up.
* * * *
“Ming”: The G.P.O. isn’t always at fault
when posted letters fail to reach their desti-
nation. Recently an electrician was sent
to open a suburban fuse-box in a M.L. city,
and was astonished to find it crammed with
letters, which short-sighted or unintelligent
citizens had “posted” within. Some of the
letters must have lain within the fuse-box
for months, as the boxes are only opened
at long intervals. A good many people are
wondering what other fuse-boxes contain.
* * * *
“Tongio West" : Speaking of casual publi-
cans (R. 28/4/'27). the most negligent and
trusting bon if ace of my experience ran a
small pub in the precipitous mountain coun-
try at the back of Walhalla (Vic.). Plis
business, such as it was,
depended almost entirely
on prospectors. He was
one of the tribe himself,
and would leave the pub
for weeks at a time, dur-
ing which periods the
door was left open and
the following placard
placed conspicuously on
the counter: “Beer on
the bottom shelf; whisky
on the middle shelf;
brandy and gin on the
top—leave your money in the till.” It is a
tribute to the honesty of his customers that
he never complained of being victimised.
* * * *
“Lond”: Two British juries within a week
have distinguished themselves by announc-
ing, after one side of the case they were
empanelled to hear had been unfolded, that
they were satisfied and didn’t want to hear
the other side. “You find for the defendant,
then?” said the Judge in the first case (a
civil one), and the foreman replied, “No;
for the plaintiff.” This being a claim for
heavy damages, the Judge contemptuously
discharged the panel at once, as not fit to
be trusted to give a verdict. The second
case was a criminal one, and his Ludship
having ascertained that the jury desired to
convict the prisoner on the evidence for the
prosecution, compelled them to hear the
evidence for the defence; on which they
changed their minds and said “Not guilty.”
'•* $ ;|: ;Jc
“Verri”: One of the most confirmed klepto-
maniacs Maoriland ever knew was the wife
of a well-known politician. All the lady’s
friends were well aware of her kink, and the
sight of her imposing carriage at the door
was a warning to place small articles of
value in safe places. The big shops were
equally well acquainted with the lady, and
on her husband’s instructions used to depute
an unostentatious assistant to follow her
round the shop, take careful note of what
she appropriated, and duly enter the same
in her account. But the lady nearly crashed
TIER MISTAKE, TOO.
“My dear, that pet of a man I had the last dance with is so nice and ouddlesome. Ever
sat out with him?"
“NO ... .not much. .. .since I’ve been... .married to him.”
when she personally called in to give an
order for cakes to a new baker, and nonchal-
antly abstracted his counter bell. Doughey
followed her out and demanded his pro-
perty, whereupon the lady drew herself up
haughtily and denied all knowledge of it.
Unfortunately, in her outraged dignity she
moved a little and the bell rang. It cost
her husband the price of sufficient bells to
stock the town to hush the matter up.
**_ $ *
“Wang”: Touching the broken whisky
barrels that recently provided wayfaring
Glaswegians with some free drinks, and the
condemned port that Bristol was once able
to lap from the gutters (B. 28/4/’27), there
was a somewhat similar happening in Mel-
bourne a good many years ago. An employee
of one of the big breweries fell into a huge
vat and was drowned. When his fate and
his corpse had been discovered, the horrified
proprietors promptly ran several thousand
gallons of the liquid into the street gutters.
It was an industrial suburb and in less than
no time thirsty souls were swarming to the
scene with buckets, billycans, bedroom jugs
and all manner of receptacles. Many, after
drinking as much as they could from the
turbid torrent, fdled their hats. A friend
of mine who witnessed the hideous orgy
solemnly assured me that he saw one old
chap hastily remove his ’lastic-side boots
to salvage a couple of long sleevers.
* * » *
“8.0’C.”: Adelaide University missed a
chance of cutting out the tedious and
senseless ceremonial of conferring an
honorary degree on the Duke of York.
Time was when this university was wont
to insist that it had no power under
its constitution to confer honorary degrees,
but under the slobbersome regime of
the late Chancellor Way that difficulty
was overcome when it, could be shown that
the proposed recipient was already (as most
visiting notables are) an honorary doctor
of something in some other university. So
such people were solemnly admitted ad
random gradum as graduates of Oxford.
Mesopotamia, or any other old place that
had got in first with the “distinction.” A
day or two before the arrival of the Yorks
it was very sensibly suggested that the item
might be omitted from the Adelaide pro-
gramme without hurting any distinguished
feelings, and the Register announced that
it would" be dropped. However, the engineers
stuck to their schedule and the Duke saw
some more of Australia by driving and
walking to the University and back through
the usual solid lane of gapers. Incidentally,
why is the faculty of Law always singled
out for the farcical honorary presentation?
* $ * *
“Coot”: Street nomenclature? Brunswick
(Yic.) lias a thoroughfare named Crook-
street. Recently the residents decided that
the name grated on ears polite and petitioned
the council to sanction an alteration. Unfor-
tunately for the petitioners, it was elicited
that the thoroughfare had been named after
a bygone mayor, with the result that the
council refused to intervene.
THE OLD SMITHY.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Astir on sunlit wings,
Birds heed not earthly trouble,
And Fielding’s anvil rings
Across the crop and stubble.
A heavy sledge is tolling
On bars of vibrant steel,
Brave anthem praises rolling,
Their plaintive chords consoling,
Like festive chimes a-peal.
One ruddy fire is blown
By old sonorous bellows,
Whose full orchestral tone
Seems choired by flutes and ’cellos.
One glowing forge is heating,
While three black hearts are cold
Which flamed when hoofs were fleeting,
Advancing and retreating
On tracks of wool and gold.
The smiths and farriers, all,
Who forged and shod for Fielding,
Have gone beyond recall;
Time marches on unyielding.
The wheelwright’s bench forsaken,
The trimmer's skillion, too,
Sad memories awaken
Of industry o'ertaken
By progress ever new.
Flames dart and sparks ascend;
A heavy sledge is falling,
For one remains to lend
Blows at the old man’s calling.
Such chimes have stirred the slumber
Which seemed the township’s right
Long seasons without number,
As Fielding’s locks of umber
Turned slowly ashen-white.
Leaves dance no more elate,
Wherein the jackass chuckled
Above the tiring plate,
Now sun- and tempest-buckled.
No horses strain their breeching
To halt beside the door,
Where hitcliing-posts are bleaching—
Stark sentinels beseeching
That trade which comes no more.
Outside the shop by day
The mocking sunrays flash on
The broken bullock-dray,
The coach of bygone fashion;
The gig a lass once prayed for
While yearning tears were shed;
A pony cart unpaid for,
An Abbot buggy made for
Some squatter long since dead.
MORE WOMEN’S RIGHTS.
“Oh, there’s Freddie. lie and I are not
playing speaks. The mean thing wouldn’t
give me his scat at the barber’s this
morning.”
Yet when we pass his door
On walks of aimless leisure,
Our hearts still thrill and soar
At Fielding's vibrant measure
On morning breezes winging.
Still by that fire ablast,
What time the sledge is swinging,
An anvil’s joyous ringing
Recalls a golden past.
N.s.w.
GERARDU.
BROWN BULBS.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
To-day as I dug in the garden I found
A cluster of little brown bulbs underground.
They were hid in the dry, parching earth,
lying low,
Just a cluster of bulbs that were looking as
though
They hadn’t a notion of starting to grow.
And I glanced at the bulbs and the bed of
bare earth,
And thought of the loveliness waiting for
birth.
I glimpsed for a moment deep hyacinth blue,
And purple and pink, and the daffodil hue
Gold-gleaming through slender green leaves
wet with dew.
Ranunculi fluttered their petals of red,
Bright orange and rose. The anemones
spread
Their light silken petticoats wide to the
sky,
And danced for the snowflakes that, daintly
shy,
Looked on while the tulips and jonquils
stood by.
Oh, the colors, the scents and the loveliness
there !
Tlie riot of beauty so rich and so rare!
All the glory and fragrance of springtime
aglow,
From a cluster of bulbs that were looking
as though
The hadn’t a notion of starting to grow!
VICTORIA.
ETHEL MARTYR.


mWSm/M
m
m
s"
w
m
S
m
N\'
2^
1
Sr"!
s.
V
HARDTTS
SJPA. RfZLZJVG
i«4


V.
ea
BCISHIO
GOOD JUDGMENT
Oood business judgment means choosing the most efficient equip-
ment for every purpose.
PIONEER LEATHER BELTING
and Pioneer Mechanical Leather Goods are the accepted standards
of quality equipment in their respective classes.
Sixty-eight years of experience in tanning, belting and leather goods manufacture are your
guarantee that quality is right.
Your inquiries or orders will be promptly attended to.
Manufactured only by
J. C. LUDOWICI <a SON, LIMITED
Pioneer House, 117 York Street, SYDNEY,
Pioneer Leather Belting Manufacturers since 1858.
INTERSTATE and NEW ZEALAND AGENTS:
VICTORIA: Benson Bros., Ltd., 107-100
Queen's Bridge Street, Melbourne.
QUEENSLAND: Hoey, 1 rj , Ltd.,
Edward Street. Brisbane:
Barns, Philp & Co., Ltd., Townsville
SOUTH AUSTRALIA: John Mo Kell and
Sons, Timpson Street, Port Adelaide.
Vk LST AUSTRALIA: Horace Summers
Howard Street, Perth.
TASMANIA: Charles Davis, Ltd.,
Elizabeth Street. Holiart
NEW ZEALAND: Friar, Richards &
Lpton, Auckland. Blackburn, Smith
& Co., Christctmrcti.
NOBEL-GLASGOW EXPLOSIVES.
The Standard of Quality throughout the Empire.
Monobel
Samsonite
Oeiatine Dynamite
Gelignite
Blasting Gelatine
Dynamite
Safety Fuse
Detonators
Cartridges
Hadfields
(AUSTRALIA) LIMITED
The largest and best-equipped Crushing Machinery Works in Australia.
JAW CRUSHERS—DISC CRUSHERS—GYRATORY CRUSHERS.
PORTABLE CRUSHING PLANTS COMPLETE QUARRY PLANTS.
Hadfields’ Manganese Steel Wearing Parts for all makes of Crushers.
Works anti ) Alexandria, Sydney, N.S.W.
Foundries \ Bassendean, Perth, W.A.
Branch I 422 Collins Street, Melbourne, Vic.
Office j T. & G. Building, Brisbane, Q.
The WILD CAT
COLUMN
Farmer and Co., Ltd., of Sydney, are
issuing £500,000 Ist mortgage debentures
at £96 10s., with a currency of 12 years
two months, and as they are redeemable at
par and carry 6 p.c. the effective interesi
rate is £6 Bs. 6d. p.c. The co. has a capital
of £1,000,000 in 400,000 ordinaries, 200,000
Ist prefs. (6 p.c.) and 400,000 2nd prefs.
(7 p.c.). The debentures now offered are to
be secured by a mortgage on the co.’s prin-
cipal premises and on the Kent-street bulk-
stores, together valued at £976,000. As
always happens in such cases, the directors
have been criticised for making a debenture
issue after pref. shares have been sold,
and all classes of shares suffered in market
price. The problem of raising money in
such a case is not easy to solve. • Unless
present shareholders are given the oppor-
tunity of providing the money required for
building extensions, it is obviously to their
advantage that the capital shall be got at
the lowest possible cost; and there is no
better way of doing it than by mortgage
debentures. The plan which offers the least
grounds for objection is to give the right
to present shareholders to take up any new
issue; they cannot then protest that out-
siders have come in ahead of them. This,
however, may involve the reduction of the
dividend on new and old ordinaries alike;
it is one thing for a co. to earn 10 p.c. on
its trading and quite another to earn 10 p.c.
on capital invested in city property, and
a management naturally shrinks from a
policy which may involve even the possi-
bility of a reduction of dividend. In this
case the directors have interfered as little
as possible with the security of pref. share-
holders by limiting the mortgage to the; co.’s
freeholds. Nevertheless, it ought to be laid
down as a general principle that where there
are pref. shares no debenture issue should
be made without the approval of the pref.
shareholders. Though the present issue is
£500,000, half of the amount is taken by
the underwriters, J. B. Were and Co., of
Melbourne.
* * * *
The Colonial Sugar Refining Co.
(Sydney):—
Replacement
V'ear and De-
ended predation
March, Profits. Dividends. Reserves. Reserves.
1917 .. £613,963 £406,250 £619,517 £904,236
1918 .. 602,290 406,250 815.557 1,068,385
1919 .. 578,830 438,750 955.637 1,313,574
1920 .. 572,349 438,750 1.089,236 1,376,988
Capital returned. £650,000.
1921 .. 781,418 495,625 1,375,029 1,517,130
Capital returned, £1,625,000.
Cash bonus, £203,125.
1922 .. 665-.190 446,875 1,593,344 1,585,874
( 498,590 325,000 ? ?
Fiji and M.L. co. in process of liquidation;
IQOS J 110 accounts issued, and profits and reserves
I not disclosed. Capital returned, £1,625,000.
I Cash bonus to shareholders from Fiji
! liquidation, £325,000.
| Reserves capitalised, £650,000
1924 -j Reserves capitalised, £1,625,000
l 673,639 446.875 1,153.480 1,140,177
1925 . . 760.653 548.437 1,365.696 1,305.857
1926 .. 800,732 609,375 1,557,053 1,404,175
1927 .. 832,797 609,375 1,780,475 1,494,052
Reserves capitalised, £975,000.. 805,475
Shareholders are to get 45.750 fully-paid £2O
shares, one for every five held. That little
operation will cut reserves to £805,475. For-
mal reserves, however, are not to be taken
seriously. Thus the Replacement and Deprecia-
tion fund, not included with reserves, is pro-
bably 100 p.c. true profit, and it is pretty
obvious that hidden inside is a heavy sum;
the remarkable management of Australia’s
greatest private enterprise has several times
shown that its internal provisions have been
enormously in excess of reasonable require-
ments.
The co.’s success, especially in its later
life, lias been tremendous, and its gift-giving
so lavish as to win attacks at more or less
regular intervals. Managing-director E. W.
Knox has certainly done his best at all times.
Whenever it has been necessary to hand out
another million or so he has rarely failed
to produce a solid foundation of gloom as the
basis for it. In 1920, for instance, £650,000
of capital was returned to shareholders,
allegedly because of the impossible political
and industrial conditions in Queensland. Half
of the 31 millions of pref. capital was re-
turned in the following year because it was
considered that Fiji, far from being the glit-
tering property anticipated, was full of dark-
blue possibilities. On this present occasion
he does not appear to have been at his best,
although he conjured up the following wisps
of threatening cloud
We are much concerned about the possible adoption
of the 44-bour week for all trades, thus compelling
a reduction of the output of our refineries and the
lengthening of the week-end break, when the carry-
over of melted sugar in process on Saturday goes up
to 3000 tons, all more or less liable to inversion
while in that stage. This is one of those trade
dangers which politicians and Arbitration Courts
are unable to understand, and they even fail to see
that the loss of working time in any factory must
increase heavily the cost of production. This remark
applies to the sugar-mills even more insistently than
to the refineries.... It is clear that, were our various
factories erected row, we should want very much
more than our existing margin of profit lo get a
reasonable return on the outlay.... Though the
Government control here will last, at any rate until
well on in 1928, there are movements in other coun-
tries which may affect sugar production. At the
same time, there seems to be in most countries a
tendency to foster internal production at the expense
of outside trade. How all this will end I do not
venture to predict, though it seems clear that the
interests of the consumer will not be the first con-
sideration.... Five millions of our funds have been
invested outside Australia. Of that spent in Fiji,
we thought it necessary to regard more than half as
irrecoverable; and we should never forget under
what conditions we undertook to help in the develop-
ment of that colony and the consequent right we have
to expect the British Government to see that we
have the same opportunity to engage labor in India
as the colonies of Malaya and Ceylon.
Shareholders are, however, not likely to
lose much more sleep than usual. Glance at
the record of the past 20 years:—
1908-13.. Parent co-’s bonus shares .. £825,000
1915 . . Bonus shares in subsidiary . . 3,250,000
1921 .. Scrip in parent co. called in
and cashed . . . . . . 650,000
1921 .. Scrip in subsidiary called in
and cashed . . ' . . . . 1,625,000
1923 .. Scrip in subsidiary called in
and cashed .. .. .. 1.625,000
1923 .. Bonus shares in parent from
Fiji liquidation .. . . 650,000
1924 . . Bonus shares in parent from
Fiji liquidation . . . . 1,625,000
1927 .. Bonus shares .. . . .. 975,000
Cash-paid capital at the beginning of the
period was £2,425,000; to-day, including the
latest capitalisation, it is £5,850,000. Within
two decades shareholders have had returned
to them more than they originally invested.
The chairman had a few comparatively
bright words to say at the annual meeting
regarding Fiji. It is interesting to recall
that the Fiji co. was formed in 1915, 3£
million of 6 p.c. prefs. being a gift to C.S.R.
shareholders. The parent held the quarter-
million of ordinary capital. Nine years later
the whole of the 3£ million had been re-
turned in cash to shareholders, plus the
trimmings shown in the introductory table,
and that enterprise is now in the accounts
at a net £1,347,094, £1,625,000 appearing as
written off —because of the uncertainty as
to labor!
In view of the capitalisation, will the 12£
p.c. be continued? The chairman asked the
question and answered himself: “In a busi-
ness affected by droughts, cyclones, strikes
and political hazards, you should take what
is offered to you, and be thankful that
the amount is not less than you desire or
expect." Rut there is little reason to doubt
that profits can be stretched to cover the
amount necessary. It is obvious that the co.
is even now only moderately capitalised:
“The sum paid annually for div. and bonus
has never yet amounted to 5 p.c. on the
cost of the assets,” said Mr. Knox naively.
Here is as much as the management dis-
closes :
Refineries—Australia and Maoriland .. £2,540,691
Sugar mills and plant, etc.—
Commonwealth .. . . . . 2,444,283
- vV Fiji (less £1,625,000 reserve) . . 1,347,094
Ocean steamers .. .. .. . . 100,000
Distillery 109,955
Office premises . . .. .. . . 66,850
Stocks and some book debts .. .. 2,806,121
Other book debts, investments, etc. . . 1,685,358
Cash, deposits, etc. 1,539,901
£12,640,253
Liabilities—
Sundry creditors .. £1,381,036
Suspense accounts .. 2.761,269
Final div., 1925 .. 304,687
4,440,992
Net assets £8,193,261
Wliat is very clear is that the co. is in a
remarkably strong position. Of the liabili-
ties, “suspense accounts” continue to in-
crease ; a close view of that item would per-
haps prove interesting.
In such a glittering picture it is difficult
to imagine that there are murky spots. A
word or two is said occasionally as to the
service the co. renders the public, and. some-
what more frequently, a speech or two is
made as to the payment the public renders
the co. A fraction of a penny on each
pound of sugar handled runs into huge figures
one way or the other. When, as in this
case, the management is of a quality unsur-
passed in Australia, those fractions appar-
ently always fall on the side of the co.,
with results that are written large in the
figures quoted. There is the danger, of
course, of Government control. Yet the co.
has been under control of one kind or another
since 1915, and another glance at the table
which bisects this review shows that it
hasn’t starved on the diet. Even at the high
market quotes which have ruled for many
years, returns thus far have more than justi-
fied the prices.
❖ ❖ ❖ *
Wickham and Bullock Island Coal
Co. (N.S.W.) :
, Dividends.
Prefs.
(12£ Writ- Re-
Mar., Profit, p.c.). Ordinary. ten Off. serves.
£ £ £ £ £
1917.. 16,759 2500 10 p.c. = 9,000 5,865 6,966
1918.. 15,649 2500 74 „ „ 6,750 5,749 7,616
1919.. 1.3,478 2500 8 ~ „ 7,200 3,778 7,616
1920.. 19,014 2500 9 „ ~ 8,100 8,213 7,817
Net To Re-
Profit. serves.
1921.. 21,217 2500 10 „ „ 9,000 9,717 17,534
1922.. 32,841 2500 10 „ „ 9,000 a „,
Reserved for taxes, £lO.OOO .. )
1923.. 15,215 2500 10 p.e. = 9,000 3,715 32,590
1924. .’ 13,557 2500 10 „ „ 9,000 2,057 34,647
Reserve taken in, £12,994 .. .. 47,641
15 p.c.
1925.. 20,983 3000 15 p.c.= 13,500 4,483 52,124
121 p.c.
1926.. 11,500 2500 10 „ „ 9,000 52,124
15 p.c.
1927.. 19,072 3000 15,, ~ 13,500 2,572 54,696
Not only is the div. increased but a recon-
struction is now under way. Wickham and
Bullock Island is one of the most consistent
profit-earners in the industry; shareholders
have averaged 10 p.c. for more than a decade.
The co. is capitalised at a low figure, seeing
that it owns three pits—Neath and Cessnock.
which it secured after its old Newcastle col-
liery was worked out, and the new Kalingo
colliery. Earnings should improve greatly
as Kalingo is opened up, and even with more
shares to feed holders should be on a com-
fortable return so long as the management
continues its success with sales, and there
is no reason to expect that it won’t. It is
a far cry from the time when the co. nar-
rowly escaped being put into liquidation by
pref. holders. In those days adequate pro-
vision had not been made for mine wastage,
and the consequence was that when its pits
on the Newcastle beach wore worked out, the
co.’s position looked hopeless. However, some
choice blocks on the Maitland field were picked
up at cheap prices, and, having surmounted
the big trouble, the co.’s path proved easy
and profitable. Of recent years there has
been no reason to question the provision
for depreciation. The amounts allowed are
not shown nor do the accounts disclose suf-
ficient whereby the provision might be
tracked down. But it’s a fair guess that
the position has improved since the co. con-
sidered it advisable to put most of its
figures into hiding :
1924. 1925. 1926. 1927.
£ £ £ £
Debentures .. 49,236 47,736 1 qq Q 1
Other liabilities.. 56,230 52,950 j yd>£,4S 91,451
Mines, plant, etc. 176,033 1
Coal .. .. 1,402
Stores .. .. 1,704
Deposits at call .. 7,875 noc nnn oaa gin oqr kjyk
•Deposits, fixed .. 30,359 438, 2iu 43b,aim
War loans .. 15,371
Cash in hand .. 12
Investments, etc. 8,770
Book debts .. 26,065 30,638 20,258 23,424
Cash .. . . 12,166 7,922 2,954 6,967
The hotchpotch of property, plant, stocks,
investments, etc., was a little less than at the
previous balance. But the fact that outside
debt of all kinds was lighter, that disclosed
profits were quite substantial and that re-
construction is considered timely suggest that
the co. didn’t slip back last term. What
happened to investments is. of course, im-
possible to say, but the visible improvement
was probably symptomatic. Of the liabili-
ties debentures doubtless are less than when
the amount was last shown. The mine pro-
perties are in at conservative figures. While
shareholders have been receiving 10 p.c. p.a.
development has gone on at Kalingo, so that
with outgo slowed down and income in-
creased the future looks very bright. Trad-
ing pi'ofits last year were £22.000-odd greater
(£175,430). Although not a record, that is
quite a good figure. Sellers have disappeared
for the time being.
* * * *
English Electric Co. of Australia,
Ltd., henceforward to be known by its origi-
nal title, Standard-Waygood, Ltd.:—
To Re- Re-
Mar., Profits. Dividends. serves, serves.
1917.. £16,268 10 p.e. = £16,888 £20,380
1918.. 16.925 10 „ „ 16.888 £37 20,417
1919.. 16.993 10 „ „ 16,888 105 20,522
1920.. 46,238 10 „ „ 21,600 1
Special div. (10 p.c.) to pur- !- 3.038 23,560
chase bonus shares, £21,600 J
£lOO,OOO (in shares) paid for Deficit.
English Electric connection . . . . 76,440
1921.. 26,750 Nil 26,750 49,690
Bonus to subscribers to new share issue,
paid in Wevmouth serin, £23,760.. 73,450
1922.. 46,543 10 p.c. = 35.842 10,701 62 749
Reserves.
Goodwill shares cancelled. £lOO,OOO. . 37.251
1923.. 37,175 10 p.c. = 36,912 263 37,514
1924.. 37,501 10 „ „ 36,982 519 38,033
Recovered from Sydney Council, £16,447 54,480
1925.. 5,600 5 p.c. = 18.491 41.589
1926.. 10,982 24 „ „ 9,246 1,736 43,325
Added to- reserves .. . . 11,205 54,530
1927.. 19,657 5 p.c. = 18,491 1,166 55,696
By mutual consent, the disappointing rela-
tions with the English Electric Co., of London,
have been terminated, and since the close of
the accounts steps have been taken to change
back to the old title. The original eo. was
registered in 1909 as Standard-Waygood,
Ltd.; following a merger with other lift
interests in 1913 the title swelled to Stan-
dard-Waygood-Hereules, Ltd. Then, after
negotiations with a world-known English
electrical combination, the co. took on its
long title. The adoption of the English
name was more or less a false alarm. In
1920 the big English Electric—itself an
amalgamation of Dick, Kerr and Co.,
Siemens, Coventry Ordnance, Phoenix
Dynamo, and others—came in as a partner,
the old S.-W.-H. Co. securing the rights to
certain patents, etc. The consideration to
the English co. was 100,000 fully-paid “A”
shares entitled to one-tentli of the profits. It
had the further right to take up 100,000 of
the unissued shares at a premium of 55., and
appoint two permanent directors on the Aus-
tralian co.’s board. The terms were later
cancelled, and £lO,OOO in cash accepted
instead by the English co. Accounts to
March 31 amalgamate those of Standard-
Waygood, which was one of the co.’s sub-
sidiaries forming part of the entry: “Invest-
ments. £75,000,” in the 1926 balance. It
should be noted that not only has the £lO,OOO
(which figured in the accounts of Standard-
Waygood as goodwill) disappeared, but the
profit and loss balance of that subsidiary,
amounting to £11,205, has been taken direct
to reserves.
••••«»
The co. has had a bumpy time since indus-
try in Europe, having overtaken the accu-
mulation of home requirements, found time
to attend to export business. Competition
has been very keen, and much of the homage
of politicians and others to Australian-made
goods has proved to be lip service only. In
consequence, long-hour, low-wage countries
have been cutting into the trade in electri-
cal goods which the co. manufactures, the
tariff in many lines being entirely inad-
equate. In 1925 the net profit was the poor-
est in the co.’s history. Last year was some-
what better. In conformity with the man-
agement’s general policy, close attention was
given to contingencies before the profit was
written in. Balance-sheet figures compare as
follows:
1924. 1925. 1926. 1927.
Capital . . £869,820 £369,820 £369,820 £369,820
Debentures . . 33,400 33,400 33,400 33,400
Liabilities . . 67,965 69,393 49,027 31,464
Property and •
plant . . 290,04 6 2 81,00 0 2 70,00 0 280.400
Stock and work 129,035 92,742 97,992 106,340
Book debts,
cash, etc. . . 56,173 83,852 61,826 76,515
Subsid i a r i e s,
etc. . . 70,944 75,099 75,000 45,607
Three years ago plant stood at £132,584.
Despite substantial additions in the inter-
vening period, this amount has now been
written down to £95,000. The fact that
some old contracts, on cleaning up, were
found to yield something on the right side
last year, indicates that allowances are ad-
equate. The directors report that values of
stock and work in progress have been kepi
down in the hope that results for the cur-
rent term will show a better margin.
The shares fell to low levels following the
1926 result, but recovered when the 5 p.c.
was reported. The outlook is still far from
brilliant. Something better than the present
tariff is necessary if this good Australian
enterprise is to make decent headway.
* * * *
Provident Life Assurance Co., of
Dunedin (M.L.), which is also doing busi
ness in the Commonwealth:—
Ordinary and Accident Branch.
■ Added to Assur-
_ Ex- Assurance ance
Uec„ Income. Claims, penses. Fund. Fund.
1916. £16,455 £4,731 £3,014 £8,710 £47 464
1917.. 20,003 5.187 3,268 11,548 59,’0i2
1918.. 25,564 11,494 4,484 9,586 68.598
1919.. 28,985 6.238 5,214 17,533 86,131
1920.. 33,688 5,759 6,185 21,744 107,875
1921.. 38.176 6,312 6,857 25,007 132,882
1922.. 42,075 7,296 7,643 27,i36 160,018
1923.. 47,899 8,653 5,759 30,457 190,475
1924.. 53,195 11,676 9,233 32.287 222,762
Transferred to Industrial Branch, £3548.. 219’214
1925. . 68,583 11,294 10,380 36,909 256423
1926.. 66,138 16,549 11,269 37,320 293,443
Industrial Branch.
Dividends to
Shareholders
Dec., Income. Claims. Expenses. (5 p.c.). Funds.
1916. . £52,605 £13,115 £25,943 £lO5O £86,261
1917.. 61,439 12,793 30,088 1050 103,769
1918.. 68,701 17,793 33,142 1050 120,485
1919.. 75,200 22,837 35,457 1050 136,341
1920.. 82,062 19,782 37,246 1050 160,325
192 1.. 90,512 23,300 39,074 1050 187,413
1922.. 99,103 28,224 40,957 1050 216,285
1923.. 108,816 36,745 44,264 1050 243,042
1924.. 120,562 39,134 46,676 276,324
Transferred from Ordinary and
Accident, £3548 .. .. 279,872
1925.. 128.044 28,750 51,150 1470 326,546
Written oft', £636 .. . 325,910
1926.. 137,399 35,365 55,004 1470 371,470
r l lie Provident started as an Industrial office,
and its progress was fairly smooth because
the M.L. State Office had rather neglected
that class of business. It was not until
LOOS that ail Ordinary department was estab-
lished. In that field, however, not only is
the State Office a competitor, but the* big
mutual and proprietary offices of Australia
are very active. The progress of the little
Provident—its paid capital is only £21.000


£ej!~~s {Zmyfr&d* v.
oScccUy
——*
SXA*, f^>
R
'Id 4/ $fW*4s(JtS }
JjatUL/ <*s £0*0*^
‘off
/4%cA- AicUUes cUrt#
ck j/Lo'/ls
Cks
&byjts “Uj(/ /£>a^i
/ fLgy 'b~t "h/
/?**<£/ (\,
>vCC£/ C*~0
cxy L
, r> 7* A Ax****.** X
THE DUCHESS WRITES HOME.


INVESTMENTS
FOR SAFETY.
How to Pick Them.
This most important subject is
discussed (with illustrations) in
The
“ Wild Cat’ Monthly”
for May now on Sale.
SINGLE COPY, 2/-
PER ANNUM, 22/6.
Principal Newsagents,
or
“The Bulletin” Offices,
Sydney or Melbourne.
We stock -f- GF -f- Malleable . Fittings to suit
every requirement, and as there are over 7500
varieties to choose from, we can accommodate any
trade. For water, steam or gas. Will not split or
crack, and are correct in every detail. Obtainable
fiom William Adams & Co., Ltd., Sole Agents,
Sydney, Newcastle, Melbourne, Brisbane, Adelaide,
Perth. —Advt.
* * * *
The economic demands of modern, efficient water
systems are met adequately by the installation of
Pioneer Wood Pipe This excellent conduit saves
endless time, expense and labor in laying, by
reason of its light and simple construction. It
costs less to buy, transport and instal, and is
practically indestructible. Pioneer Wood Pipe cannot
rust nor corrode, it offers no foothold for interior
deleterious organisms and costs little to maintain.
It delivers at full capacity all the time. The
Australian Wood Pipe Co., Ltd., Burns Bay Road,
Lane Cove, N.S.W. (Ferry to Figtree) ; and at
Footscray, Vie. —A dvt.
* * *
Patents.- —Have you an idea worth patenting?
Griffith & Hassel, Patent Attorney, 77 Castlereagli
Street, Sydney, obtain Commonwealth and foreign
patents.— Advt.
* * *
IDEAS—Commonwealth and Foreign Patents
obtained. CbnusoN & Co., 483 Collins St-eet, Mel-
bourne. and Adelaide. Thirty veais’ practice. Write
us for Inventors' Guide.— Advt.
* * * *
If you are a producer of ores, mattes, metals and
metalliferous residues of any kind, Burkard and
Co., Ltd., 26-30 Bridge Street, Sydney, are buyers
for U.K., Continent of Europe and U.S.A. smelters,
and will pay you the highest prices and give you
best terms. Advances made against ore—and market
information, prices, assays at your disposal. Send
samples and particulars.— Advt.
Leplastriers’ Concrete Mixers —of all necessary
sizes—are designed and manufactured in Australia by
expert engineers. Apply Goldsbrough House, Sydney;
Collins House, Melbourne; 164 Edward Street, Bris-
bane : or 21 Morphett Street, Adelaide. — Advt.
* * *
A high-class line of Italian Microscopes, known as
the “Koristka,” pronounced by eminent authorities to
be equal to*the best German instruments, are now
being offered by Messrs. Felton, Grimwade & Co.
Ptv.. T-td.. Melbourne, who have been appointed
sole Australian agents. Inquiries will be promptly
responded to. — Advt.
* * * *
Hydraulic Power Electric and Hydraulic Lifts
Limited (incorporated by Act. of Parliament,
1888), hydraulic, electric and general engineers, lift
specialists. Maintenance and repairs of all classes of
lifts and other machinery. Mercantile Mutual Build-
ing, 14 Martin Place, Sydney.— Advt.
All Right!
I’ll meet you at
YOUNG 8 JACKSON’S
The place of meeting of all men on
business and pleasure.
Standing on MELBOURNE’S most
historic corner, everybody who knows
MELBOURNE knows —
Young & Jackson’s,
on the corner of
Flinders and Swnnston Streets,,
Everybody who visits MELBOURNE wants to
see the FAMOUS PICTURE GALLERY, in
which is included the world-renowned “Chloe.‘"
First-class accommodation for visitors.
Nothing but die best in all liquors.
J. A. SAFE, Prop.
Tilling-Stevens Motors Ltd.,
Maidstone, England.
2.V-, 3-, 5/6-TON GEAR-DRIVEN 30-PASSENGER “EXPRESS”
MOTOR CHASSIS.
SOLE CONCESSIONAIRES:
GUTHRIDGE, LTD., 10-12 Parramatta Road, Camperdown, Sydney
Queensland
Insurance Co.
Ltd.
Head Office:
Pitt & Bridge Streets,
Sydney.
The Largest
Australian Company
transacting
Fire, Marine, Personal
Accident and Sickness,
Burglary, Live Stock,
Public Risk, Boiler Ex-
plosion, Workers’ Com-
pensation, etc., etc.
is not such as to carry much comfort to
shareholders of most of the litter of young
cos. which have seen the light in Australia
in the past six or seven years. In many of
these capital has run into the hundred
thousands—not so bad from the viewpoint
of policy-holders, although in most cases
capital has wasted to a shadow of its original
proportions, but a matter of grief to those
who see the number of shares awaiting divs.
The Ordinary branch is run on a co-
operative basis, 90 p.c. of all profits being
reserved for policy-holders. Industrial and
Accident policies are plain contracts. Com-
bining all the figures, the co.’s steady growth
is made clearer
Total Expenses
Income. Claims, (ine. divs.).
1899 .. .. £9,177 £2,835 £6,462
1904 . . . . 15,289 3,434 8,449
1909 . . . . 30,785 8,369 20,650
1914 . . . . 58,429 13,330 29,902
1919 . . . . 104,185 29,075 41,721
1920 .. .. 115,750 25,541 44,481
1921 .. .. 128,05 S 29,612 46,981
1922 .. .. 141,178 35,520 49,650
1923 . . .. 156,7.16 45,398 54,103
1924 . . .. 173,757 50,809 57,379
1925 .. . . 186,627 40,044 63.000
1926 . . . . 202,537 51,914 67,7^3
Although claims were heavier last year in
both departments, the average experience has
been favorable. Expenses were cut. back
to 17.3 p.c. of total income as compared
with about 17.9 p.c. of recent years. New
Ordinary business amounted to 1324 policies
assuring £326,991, compared with 1318
policies assuring £335,603 in 1925. On the
assumption that renewals cost 7 p.c., new
business cost 105 p.c. compared with 99.7
p.c. in the previous year. The steady in-
crease needs to be watched. In 1921 the
rate was only 81 p.c. Industrial business
was won at 40 p.c.—practically the same
rate as in 1925. In 1922 it was 42.4 p.c.;
in 1920, 45.4 p.c.; in 1913, 60.5 p.c.
Investments are of a good typo; at Decem-
ber 31 more than half a million of total
funds of £685,913 were in local government
securities; £106,580 in Government stock;
£37,127 in loans on policies; £6764 in cash;
£6390 in premises; and £8656 in mortgages.
Liabilities totalled £6484. Policy valuations
are on a 3i p.c. basis; last year the return
(exclusive of profit on realisation of securi-
ties) on average funds was £5 10s. 2d. p.c.
Shareholders are not likely to receive any-
thing very brilliant in the near future, but
they can see a pretty sure 7 p.c., with chances
of slow improvement.
* * * *
The Anglo-American Corp. of Africa,
which recently decided to throw down its
Mount Isa option, though it is still not
unlikely that it will pick it up again, can
claim to have had a good year in other
respects. The co.’s issued capital is
£3,718.453, and disclosed profits for the past
year were £I,IOO,'MX). Of this £485,000 goes
in a 12| p.c. div., wiiicli is 2| p.c. higher
than the previous year’s. Besides heavy
diamond-mining interests, the co. is engaged
in Rhodesian copper-mining and prospecting,
as well as in goldmine propositions in the
Western Rand.
Incidentally, the matter of the railway
freights over which the option came to grief
is still having the attention of the Queens-
land Government. Many of the lines in the
Northern freight-book are absurd. For in-
stance. there is an old railway theory that
the higher the value of the goods carried the
more the freight should be, so that a
ton of bullion has been charged four times
more than a ton of ore or concentrates,
though the former costs much less to
handle. When the money can be paid com-
fortably, this may be the right policy. But
it can’t always be paid comfortably or at all,
and then it is rotten policy. It may pay the
railways far better to carry bullion than
ore at the knv rate, because to produce the
bullion inland the railways must practically
always carry coal, coke and stores to the
smelters, wdiereas if it is only the ores or
concentrates that are carried on. the low
rate, then those goods will be carried to the
coal, and there will be no back loading. One
of the bad features of Australian railway
management is the difficulty of getting special
rates. There are times when freight charges
could be made much higher and easily paid ;
there are others when, because “the book’’
must be stuck to, tens of thousands of pounds
of payable freight is lost. For the time being
that is just what has happened in connection
with the Isa.
* * * *
“Gouger”: The “mother reef” theory dies
hard. If the men could be marshalled wdio
have worn out their lives searching for the
“mother reefs” that have shed the gold on
alluvial fields, they w r ould make a big army.
It is my opinion that there are no mother
reefs; they have all shed their gold and
passed out. I hesitate to think of the for-
lorn hopes that will some day be raised by
a rugged strip of Daintree country (N.Q.).
My mates and I found it just before the
war. The gold is very coarse, from half-
’weight to half-ounce pieces. It occurs in
a wide, running creek, in the terraces of
old-time alluvial wash that line the banks
of the creek, and in long-buried old river-
beds in the mountains. The wash is of
water worn quartz and ironstone lying on
blue slate. All conditions are ideal for a
rich alluvial held. That gold must have come
from the ever elusive “somewhere”; it
could not have dropped from the skies. To
inflame the imagination of “mother lode”
theorists, there are some fine big reefs on
the mountain sides, and in one buried river-
bed we found rich traces of gold, every
speck of which was a tiny specimen. These
specks were so rich that the quartz could
only be seen in them with a magnifying-
glass. To add the final “proof,” the heavy
alluvial gold is very little waterworn, most
of its jagged edges looking as if they had
dropped out of the quartz only the day
before. That gold must have come from
close handy. But glance at the country.
It consists of mountains 3000 ft. high covered
with dense jungle. A scrub-knife must be
used if a man wants to walk 100 yards. No
earth is visible; a carpet of leaves, loam and
roots lies everywhere. And the country is
all peaks. Imagine our surprise on unearth-
ing river-beds amongst those peaks. A few
million years ago those peaks w 7 ere thousands
of feet higher than they are now; they have
been worn away and washed down into the
gorges and perhaps to the sea aeons ago. The
mother reefs have gone with them. Only
traces of the ancient river-beds remain.
Every time we located a portion of old bed
we got gold. Everything points to a very
rich field lying under that carnet of vegeta-
tion, but only a chaser of rainbows would
be inspired to tackle the problem.
Queensland gold returns have moved up
lately. The return for April was 2894 fine
oz. valued at £12,293, as against 6630 z.
worth £2816 for April, 1926. The first four
months of the present year returned 4110 oz.
(£17.458), as against 22150 z. (£9421), for
the same, period of last year. The increase
is almost wholly due to Mount Morgan, the
mine turning out 21520 z. for April; it gave
nothing at all for April. 1926. Ravenswood
also panned out 4430 z. for the month, as
against a duck-egg for the corresponding-
period last year.
* # * *
Pickings on Herberton (N.Q.) tinfield —
the chief field of the State —are exceedingly
lean now and have been for months past.
Great Northern shareholders look glum. The
co. has had no luck out of the last campaign.
Promising leaders have petered out and there
is so far no further trace of the big shoot
that carried money last year. As the “Wild
Cat” forecasted seven months ago. it looks
as if they have consumed the shoot, lock, stock
and barrel. It has run out on porphyry. As
a last straw the diviners have been called in.
As usual they have been complete frosts.
Barring two shows the outlook around the
field is not healthy. But Herberton gets on
ore as quickly as it gets off. It looks as
if it will fall behind Kangaroo Hills in out-
put this year.
* * * *
Nothing has been heard for some time of
the silver-lead prospects at Cania. Upper
Burnett (C.Q.), which were mooted as
something out of the ordinary. The shows
have not been abandoned, but owners are
dwelling on the extension of the Many
Peaks line now proceeding gradually from
Gladstone, which should give them a chance
of working profitably. Two years ago freight
to rail cost between £4 and £5 a ton. One
of the crops opened up to shallow depth is
said to average about sft. wide, and assays
show up to 40 p.c. lead and fair silver.
* * *
Box Flat Colliery, Ipswich (Q.), has
closed down. It was one of the big mines
on the Bundamba end of the field and had
one of the biggest areas on the Aberdare
seam, which has been Ipswich’s mainstay.
Aberdare touched as much as 30ft. of coal
in two sections in Box Flat. Flooding
occurred after the recent wet season, the
coal was getting dirtier, and several other
minor considerations weighed down the
scales. Bill Want was manager. Hp was
on the Mount Mulligan disaster Commission
and was an old Hunter Valley collier. He
goes back there to grow fruit. Although
the coal trade is bad in Ipswich at present,
there is quite a feverish search for good coal
areas on the Aberdare. Harry Hart’s race-
course area still stands in the offing, and
McGeachie, who has examined it profession-
ally, sees many bawbees in it. But, in the
nature of things, he has had to base his
conclusions mostly on data supplied to him.
* * *
Roma Oil Corporation’s new bore at the
town is down about 3000 ft. It lias passed
through one gas stratum already; but as
the old bores had a methane flow before
getting down to the wet gas, no notice has
been taken of it. The co. has to go another
300 or 400 feet to get amongst the real gas
horizons. The co. succeeded in securing a sub-
sidy from the Commonwealth Government,
which has reputedly spent about £90,000
boring in the district —nracticallv all of it
by the Lander Co. at Oralla. Roma is on
tenterhooks lest a tool fall down the hole,
which would repeat history and again raise
dark suspicions.
Stanthorpe is witnessing activity on and
around its tin-bearing areas. This is quite
apart from the big Lempriere deal. .Toe
Dempsey, late of the State mine, and Gor-
ton have several likely short-distance colts
in their stables. Broadwater looks like
having another good run. Glen Aplin has
been barely up to schedule thus far, but
expects to get on to a handy little patch
of 10 acres or so that may go anything.
It's a pocket limited by a rising, rocky
bottom, but will be very helpful. Out Bed-
rock way prospecting has been again induced
by the great market. Next year promises
to be the best for tin that Stanthorpe has
seen for 20 years.
* * * *
Bowonga tin field has had a market set-
back through J. B. Scott resigning the man-
agership of the Bowonga co. It was said in
Melbourne that lie was not satisfied with the
purity of the tin recovered from the out-
cropping lodes. Shares on ’Change dropped,
and dealing in all Bowonga tin cos. almost
ceased. Scott then made a public statement
that the only hostile metal was titanic iron
in small quantities, which could be sepa-
rated by concentration ; otherwise the oxide
was pure. He added that he had no doubt
about the prospective value of the property.
* * *
“Old Warden” : Mining reports are notori-
ously optimistic, hut a recent one of Alluvial
Gold and Platinum, as published by Sydney
Evening News, seems to go the limit. It
states that “the mill will resume running in
a few weeks, when it is hoped to put through
at least 100 tons of platinum and gold per
week.” Shareholders, to use the accustomed
phrase, “may reasonably expect to receive a
dividend in the near future.”
* * * *
“Yarraman”: Bynoe Harbor (N.T.) is
about 18 miles from West Arm, as the crow
flies, and by boat —the usual mode of travel
—is some 60 miles from Darwin. To
West Arm from Darwin, by boat, the dis-
tance is about 11 miles. Hang Gong’s pro-
perty was not an alluvial claim, as has been
declared in the South. It was a dyke, as
are all the other tinmines that were worked
at West Arm and Bynoe Harbor in the old
days. And. needless to say, the claim was
not worked by open sluici»g. Scout boring
may have disclosed some 14oz. ground; but
T. I. Dyson (who is to test for Common-
wealth Malaya Tin, which has an notion
over 2560 acres) will be well advi 1 to
test the country thoroughly. The depo-..tion
of ore in that district is very tricky.
* * * *
Sydney Siam, a tin prospecting co. regis-
tered in Sydney in December, 1025. has issued
its first report covering operations during
1926. After several dud prospects had been
abandoned, the co. struck better luck at
Bangrin, near Renong. A 2200-acre area
was acquired under prospecting license, and
scout-boring of a portion of this gave pro-
mising returns; close boring followed over
an area of 453 acres, and has returned an
average of 14.450 z. per c.y. with an average
depth of 37.3 feet. The remainder of the
area is now being bored, while 1200 acres
of adjoining land has been applied for.
Bangkah, as the tested area has been named,
will be check-bored by an independent expert,
and if all goes well the flotation of an
operating co. will follow on his report. V. <T.
Rundell Miles is chairman and the engineers
are ,T. W. Reid and 11. Bethunc. An earlier
boi'ing report, covering 290 of the above 453
acres, gave a return of 13oz. to the c.y. with
a depth of 35 feet. Apparently values and
depth have increased together.
* * * *
London Financial News has been trying
to sum up the tin situation. It asserts that
of the buying for some time past has
; >ne by dealers. This was the advice
given to The Bulletin some months ago,
and passed on in this Column, and the recent
drop in tin prices is probably due to. forced
landings, prompted by the increase in pro-
duction. There is nothing in the situation
to suggest that the market is going to do
anything sensational in the way of down-
ward plunges; on the other hand, speculators
in Malayan stocks should take no notice
when the market starts an upward flight.
* * * *
Adelaide Oil Exploration Co., of which J. T.
Moate is the king-pin, is at last to start
work on its big Siglia concession in Chile.
A contract has been signed in New York for
boring the area. Nothing is said about the
financial arrangements. So far petroleum has
not been obtained in Chile, although there is
plenty in Peru, the adjoining country. Moate
reported “there are hundreds of acres of
highly saturated oil sands on the holding.”
This does not look too good, for saturated oil
sands on the surface indicate that the coun-
try rock has been fractured and the oil has
escaped. However, that a beginning has been
made to test this Chilian concession must be
satisfactory reading to those who were
attracted by the co.’s yelloW-press style of
share-selling literature.
* * * *
“Old Warden”: In his annual report the
warden for tlie Bulolo goldfield insists on
the probability of the alluvial deposits being
of vast extent, apparently basing his opinion
on the fact that the specimen gold on
the Edie is similar to that lower down on
Ivoranga Creek. He thinks that the Waria
River and the adjacent Papuan fields may
belong to the same area. A 100-mile line
drawn from the Yodda to the Bulolo,
through the Gira and Aikora fields, will
have to straddle mountain massifs like
Albert; Edward. 14,000 ft. high. On the
Waria, Aikora, Gira and Yodda the gold was
very free, and very valuable, giving up to
£3 15s. an oz. Most of the Bulolo stuff
goes at under £2 per oz. The variation in
quality, increasing as one goes further s.-w.,
does not argue a common origin.
❖ 3^
The Misima G. M. Co. has paid another
ss. div., making the return to shareholders
thus far 25s. —shares were £l. The co.
started treating ore in May, 1924. Its
suecss will interest shareholders of the Block
1.0 Co., which originally owned the mine.
Manager G. O. Wilkinson reports that the
show continues to open up well, and at
present there is more payable ore in sight
than they have treated to date. Tonnage
for March was 1175 tons. Gold return for
the current year has been approximately
£l3OO per month. The value of the gold
won to date is £35,000.


PROSPECTUS OF
Webb’s Silver Mine Prospecting Company
(NO LIABILITY),
Emmaville, New South Wales*
(To be incorporated under the Companies Acts 1897-1918, New South Wales),
CAPITAL - - - £25.000
IN 100,000 SHARES OF FIVE SHILLINGS EACH.
74,600 Contributing Shares are offered to the public for subscription at 1/- per Share on application and 1/- per Share on allotment, the
balance at 6d. per month per Share to be called up if required.
25,400 Shares fully paid up are issued to Vendors in part payment for leases, dumps and for the purchase of certain mining machinery and plant.
DIRECTORS (Provisional) :
J. MILLJCAN, Company Director, 153 Bellevue Road, Edgecliff (late
of E. D. Miles & Co., Charters Towers).
M. J. O’DONNELL, Storekeeper, Emmaville (late Manager Aboontikoon
Mines, West Africa).
C. J. BARNES, Mining Engineer, Emmaville.
T. MILLS, Mining Engineer, Teviot, Hampden Avenue, Edgecliff (late
General Manager Day Dawn Block and Wyndham G.M. Co., and
Managing Director Mills’s Day Dawn United G.M. Co., etc.,
Charters Towers).
SOLICITOR:
P. P. ABBOTT, Glen Innes, New South Wales.
BANKERS:
BANK OF AUSTRALASIA, BANK OF NEW SOUTH WALES,
Martin Place, Sydney. Emmaville.
AUDITORS:
C. A. LE MAISTRE WALKER & CO., 115 Pitt Street, Sydney.
SECRETARY AND OFFICE:
W. BALE, Woodstock Chambers, 88 Pitt Street, Sydney.
OBJECTS OF THE COMPANY.
The Company is being formed to acquire from Charles John Barnes
Mineral Leases No. 49, of 40 acres, and No. 69, of 40 acres, both in the
Parish of Strathbogie North, County Gough, and the option of purchase of
Mineral Lease No. 5 3, of 20 acres, and dam sites Nos. 545 and 546, all in
the Parish of Strathbogie North, County of Gough, in consideration of
£3350, payable as to £2 750 in fully-paid Shares and £6OO in cash to
Charles John Barnes, and also to take over from Charles John Barnes
the tailings heaps lying on the ground, to unwater and prospect this
immense fissure lode, and if found payable to develop and work for the
benefit of the Shareholders. And also to acquire certain mining machinery
and plant from Thomas Mills in consideration of the issue to him of
14,400 fully paid-up Shares in the Company.
The only Agreements entered into are as follows:
Dated 18th March, 192 7, between Charles John Barnes and
Albert John St. Clair Potter, as Trustee for and on behalf
of the proposed Company, as referred to above.
Dated 18th March, 192 7, betw'een Thomas Mills, as Vendor, and
the said Albert John St. Clair Potter, as Trustee for the
proposed Company as regards the machinery and plant.
Copies of the above Agreements can be inspected at the Office of
P. P. Abbott, Solicitor, Glen Innes, and at the Office of the Company,
Sydney.
It is proposed to proceed to registration upon 40,000 Contributing
Shares being applied for.
All brokerage and promotion fees and expenses incidental to
registration of the Company will be borne by the Company.
The Company will pay 5 % brokerage to approved Brokers on all
Shares applied for and allotted through them.
Particulars of the property and the reports on the same are attached
hereto.
WEBBS SILVER MINES.
Situation.—At Little Plant Creek, seven miles north-west by north of
Emmaville, New South Wales.
Leases.—Three leases, totalling 100 acres, have been taken up.
Geology.—The country is claystone rock. The lode formation can be
traced over a mile on the surface. There are two other lodes
running nearly parallel and close to the present mine, which could
be opened by crosscuts’ from the lower levels.
The lode varies in width up to fifteen feet and cuts the clay-
stone at nearly right angles, and appears to be a stock werk in a
crushed zone and is a concentrating proposition.
History.—The middle lode has been prospected to a depth of 650 feet,
and all previous work has been done on this lode.
E. F. Pittman, Government Geologist of New South Wales,
deals fully with the mine in “The Mineral Resources of New South
Wales’’ and says “the clean concentrates constitute about ten per
cent, of the crushed ore, and at the time twenty-seven (2 7) tons
of them are produced per week, the average silver content being
1 12oz. per ton and 7% of lead.”
In one of the annual reports it is mentioned that, notwithstand-
ing great alteration in and additions to the plant and machinery, a
large quantity of silver concentrates were sent away from the mine
during the year; approximately 700 tons. All development and
stoping was done by hand, levels being driven north up to about
400 feet and south about 200 feet. The cross-cutting done was
insufficient to cut the parallel lodes.
MR. STEPHEN CURNOW.
Mr. Stephen Curnow, for many years Shift Boss in the Mine, and
who worked in it until it closed, states: —
“650 feet was the lowest level in the mine. This level was
driven 70 feet north and about 120 feet south.
“The north level was driven in ore all the way, and the ore is
still showing in the face of the drive. No stoping was done on this
portion of the level, and this leaves a solid block of ground up to
550 feet level. The lode was the full width of the drive, 6 feet
carrying silver, lead and some copper carrying a little gold.
“This level driven south 120 feet, showing 6 feet of ore all the
way, a little stoping w:s dene in and around a winze sunk from the
550 feet level.
“In the winze a level was driven at 600 feet deep about 20
feet each way in ore.
“This 650 level carries ore under foot all the way.
“550 Feet Level.—Driven north 90 feet with a little ore show-
ing in the face of the drive, the ground was stoped out overhead to
the 450 feet level.
“The south level driven 150 feet up to 10 feet wide witn
leaders of ore in the face, two winzes were sunk, No. 1 and No. 2,
and only No. 1 holed through to the level below, No. 2 not being
connected.
“440 Feet Level. —Driven north 70 feet, good ore showing in
the face of the drive about 1 0 feet wide. The ore was nearly all
stoped out to the 350 feet level. Level driven south 160 feet,
medium-quality ore showing in the face. There is block of
ore 130 feet long, about 12 feet wide, standing overhead in this
level to the 350 feet level.
“350 Feet Level. —Driven north 300 feet and connects with
No. 8 Shaft, face being broken into leaders carrying ore.
“Driven south 100 feet, little ore showing in the face, about
6 feet wide in leaders.”
This information could not be verified, owing to there being 350
feet of water in the shaft, due to accumulation of surface drainage for
the last twenty-two years.
It seems extraordinary that this mine should have been shut down
when such a lot of ore is available, the local impression being that the
Mining Regulations bearing on the mine were not carried out and the
mine was closed down.
ORE IN SIGHT.
Ore can be seen in the stopes at the various levels above the 250
feet level, and heavy mineralised ore can be traced down the sides of
the small shaft sunk to the north of the main shaft into the stopes below,
for at least 50 feet.
A good deal of ore can be won from these stopes at low cost, as all
the work is done in developing same, and only rails are required to be
laid to the main shaft.
THE MAIN SHAFT.
The main shaft is in excellent order to the 250 feet level. From
there to the 350 feet level the shaft was cut down to a smaller size in
length, and then below the 350 feet was opened out to the same size as
first sunk. It would only mean cutting down the 100 feet to have a good
shaft all the way, the lodes being nearly vertical; and good walls lend
themselves to cheap mining.
RESIDUES.
There are from twelve to sixteen thousand tons of jig tailings lying
on the ground, carrying about Boz. of silver to the ton, and only require
regrinding to recover their values over the tables.
DAMS.
One dam is in good order, the one in the main creek will have to
be repaired and a good by-wash made to carry off the surplus stormwater.
REMARKS.
I think the property is one well worth unwatering and prospecting,
as the lodes can be traced over a great distance on the surface, and have
been opened up by small shafts which carry ore.
The ore contains silver, lead, copper, zinc, antimony, arsenic and
pyrites.
With modern methods, a high-grade concentrate should result, and
the mine, if properly worked and ore developed, should prove a payable
one.
(Signed) T. MILLS, Mining Engineer.
WEBB’S SILVER MINE PROSPECTING COMPANY
(NO LIABILITY). f
ApplicaJ'oa for Shares. •
To the Provisional Directors
WEBB'S SILVER MIKE PROSPECTING COMPANY (No Liability),
c/o The Secretary (pro tem.),
W. BALE, Esq.,
88 Pitt Street, Sydney.
I, the undersigned, HEREBY APPLY for Shares in
the above Company at 5/- each in tends of the Prospectus, and I enclose herewith
the sum of £... being application money of one shining (!/-'>
per Share, and I undertake to pay a further one shilling (I/-) per Share on allot-
ment, and to accept such Shares or any lesser number that may be allotted to me,
and' to be bound by the Rules and Regulations of the Company.
DATED this day of J 927.
NAME IN FI LL .
ADDRESS
OCCUPATION
SIGNATURE


Usher’s Hotel Ltd
Castlereafch Street, Sydney.
A first-class new and up-to-date
modern hotel.
Running hot and cold water in all bid-
rooms and many have Bath de Luxe.
Automatic bedside telephones.
English and Trench Cuisine.
New Marble Bar, spacious and airy.
For perfection of service, comfort
and cleanliness, Usher’s Ltd. is un-
equalled.
Inclusive Terms, apply
MANAGER.
Ccnsisrenh in nceTs7s
b
Very |Old |
HOLLAN D GIN
rtp | p 11. '1
nr
1 /
irXi
m
A SK for BolsVery Old Holland
A Gin in the STONE Bottle,
or Bols Silver Cap Dry Gin in
the Square Glass Bottle with
the Green Label.
EVERREADY
r ; torches ;
p The VforldS Best J
Look Cm tho Tim
Writ* for flluttrmttd Cstmlofo*
The Ever-Ready Co. (Gt. Britain) Ltd-
-163 Pitt Street, Sydney
PERSONAL
ITEMS
In throwing up the Vic. Premiership
Allan gave his‘Nash colleagues tit for
tat. He quitted them without telling them
definitely what he was going to do; then
two hours after he had lodged his resigna-
tion he ’phoned the news to Peacock, who
was presiding over a party meeting. Peacock
CHARLES BRUNSDON FLETCHER,
editor of the S. M. Herald, which hasn’t
yet got over its astonishment at the liber-
ality of John Fairfax and Sons (income
about £350 a day) in offering a first prize of
£25 for an Ode on the Opening of Canberra.
and McPhairson liad to hurry down to get
the intelligence “officially” from John as he
was off to catch his train home to Kyabram.
The Nashers were not very resentful. They
remembered that Lawson was just as uncere-
monious when he resigned to tip the Cocki.es
out in 1024, and then advised the Lieut.-
Governor to commission him to form a new
Nash Government.
The high hopes of William McPherson that
he would be commissioned to form a new non-
Labor Administration in Yic. were doomed
to disappointment. He was not even con-
sulted by Governor Somers. McPherson, like
Lawson, has good reason to complain that
he was made a scapegoat. Peacock and
Snowball are possibilities for the Speaker-
ship, as Labor has nobody to spare for that
job.
Harry Blinman, who had charge of the
arrangements for the ducal visit to South
Aus., was an inter-State cricketer in the days
of George Giffen, and played against England
on three occasions. Tie was a graceful bats-
man and a fine field, and after he relin-
quislied the pads he was on tlie Board of
Control for over 20 years. When earning a
crust he officiates as an Under-Secretary, and
more than one Premier has found him a
strong pillar to lean against in the first
onrush of office.
A determined explorer is D. S. Wylie, of
Sydney, who is now going to have a look at
New Guinea and New Britain. He has
wandered in the South Pacific, China and
Japan, and a few years ago traversed the
island of Savaii, in the Navigator Group,
with Prank Burnett, the anthropologist.
Wylie led an expedition to North Westraiia
last year, and got stranded in the Whirlpool
Pass. In between times, he manages the
Sydney end of a firm that commercialises
forestry.
When J. S. Badger, first general manager
of Brisbane electric trams, returned to the
northern city the other day, after three
years’ absence in his native America, he got
a welcome which must have softened the
memory of the harsh things said about him
during the pre-war tramway strike. Badger
gave the shareholders of the Brisbane Tram-
ways, now a municipal enterprise, good divi-
dends, and aforetime critics have now dis-
covered that the service in his time was a
model of efficiency. Badger still has his
hobbies, one of which is the collection of
Western Pacific stone implements.
Trumble, Sec. for Defence, who is to ex-
change jobs with Shepherd, Sec. to the_ High
Commissioner in London, is gratifying a
long-cherished ambition by going to Australia
House. He was a junior clerk in the old
Yic. Defence . Department when it was taken
over by the Commonwealth. Commander
Collins,. recently dead, was then permanent
head, and Collins went to London as sec.
to the High Commissioner. Trumble climbed
to the top in the Defence Department and
wanted to make history repeat itself by
following in the footsteps of Collins.
Very few people suspected that Robert
Albert Newman, vigorous, erect and spruce,
one of the familiar figures of Pitt-street,
Sydney, was within 10 years of liis century,
hut lie celebrated his ninetieth birthday the
other day. He takes an active part in busi-
ness, and doesn’t regard himself as an old
fellow at all. As a lad Newman walked daily
to Sydney College (now the Grammar
School) from Waverley, and thus, he be-
lieves, laid the foundation of the remarkably
good health he still enjoys. A brother was
M.L.A. for Orange at one time; he himself
opposed Jack Want at Gundagai in 1892 and
was only narrowly defeated.
The aged Dr. Armstrong having laid down
the crozier of Wangaratta (Vic.), the new
wearer of the Anglican apron is a Melbourne
man, John Stephen Hart, a profound theo-
logian and a great scholar. When he had
his M.A. and B.Sc. from Melbourne
Uni. Hart was appointed warden and lec-
turer in St. John’s College and afterwards
theological lecturer in Trinity College. He
became a canon or St. Paul’s Cathedral in
1908 and succeeded Dean Godby 11 years
later as head of the Chapter. He will be
no stranger to the people of Wangaratta, as
he had the parish of Benalla a quarter of a
century ago. It is expected that Dean Battye,
of Brisbane, will take his leggings to Mel-
bourne.
Vic. State Government was not consulted
about the knighthood conferred on Stephen
Morell, Melbourne’s Lud Mayor. He got it
just for being there. The handle gives him
a pull at next mayoral election, and he will
probably brighten up the oak board that they
inscribe the names of mayors on by having
a second term with the “Sir” tacked on.
Brunton, the only survivor of the mayors who
got titles, out of it, will be glad of some
company.
A publican who heard many political con-
spiracies hatched in his house was just-dead
Harry Combellack. For many years Combel-
lack was licensee of the Assembly Hotel
in Phillip-street, Sydney, a time-honored ren-
dezvous of thirsty members. His attitude
towards politicians was expressed when some-
body, seeing him let an M.L.A. “stick up”
drinks, remarked that it was a wonder he
trusted a politician. “I give him credit, but
I don’t trust him,” said Combellack.
Ex-Senator Tom Glassey, now in the
eighties, can boast that, if it had not been
for his advocacy of Federation, as leader of
the Queensland Labor party in 1899, when
Bananaland sentiment was opposed to the
idea, there would have been _no Common-
wealth and no Canberra festivities. But the
veteran, though available in Brisbane,
didn’t even get an invitation to the opening.
Diggers were glad to see Brigadier-General
Brand remembered when Albert of York
handed out gauds. Brand’s job was to
engineer the big review of the three arms
of the service, and lie did it well. But cere-
monial is not the Brig.’s strong suit. On
the day fixed for the rehearsal of the review
he engineered a rifle match —apparently so
that the time shouldn’t be entirely wasted.
Before he became a professional soldier he
was a school-teacher.
Edward Acton, a Queensland pioneer
dating back to the ’sixties, who died in Bris-
banc last week, at 79, spent most oi: his
life in the Civil Service. He was a notable
collector of china and miniatures. Acton s
father fought at Waterloo, as a cornet
in the 13th Light Dragoons.
Edward Withy, just dead in the Cold
Country, was an English shipbuilder—the
Withy of Furness, Withy and Co.-—who, on
his retirement 40 years ago, settled in
Maoriland. He plunged at once into poli-
tics and got into Parliament as member
for one of the Auckland suburbs on the crest
ALEXANDER
WATSON,
the reciter, who has
commenced his 'fifth
(and final) Austra-
lian tour.
of the wave that
washed the Stout-
Vogel Administra-
tion off the map.
Withy defeated a
Minister, J. A.
Tole. At the same
election, 1887, Stout
was out e d by
Jimmy Allen in
Dunedin East, and
Vogel got such a
bad tumble that he
shortly afterwards
left the country for
good. Withy’s win
was remarkable,
since he was a
rich man and a
rabid Freetrader
and the constitu-
ency was a work-
ing-class one. But
he made no mark in
the I lons', and
n c v e r acquired
sympathy with the
“colonial” mind, re-
turning at last to
the land of his birth.
The descendants of _ the. Laidley family
those of them who still live in Australia-
last week celebrated the centenary of the
arrival of Assistant-Deputy Commissary -
General Laidley and his family in Sydney.
Laidley. who took a hand in founding the
Savings Bank, the Australian Jockey Club
and other concerns and built a mansion,
Rosebank, at Darnnghurst- —it is now a pri-
vate hospital—died after eight years of Aus-
tralian service. His seven children all mar-
ried, mostly to Morts, Mitchells and Moffatts.
The honor most coveted by scientists, a
Fellowship of the Royal Society, was one of
the distinctions gained by Thomas Illidge, a
Queenslander who died the other day. His
principal contribution to science was the
clearing-up of the mystery surrounding the
life of the ceratodus, Bananaland’s lung-
breathing fish, a survival from early stages
of evolution. Between' the ovum and full
adult growth the creature hides itself, and
no specimens were available to show the
mode of development till Illidge set up a little
hatchery and reared ceratodi under his own
watchful eye.
A padre who has just gone out without
any call of bugles was Herbert Pritchard.
Ilis own fiery zeal consumed him. Joining
the Church Army in the Cold Country as a
lad, he first labored among the Cousin Jacks
in their native lair. Lady Mary Trefusis,
whom Australia remembers as Mary Lygon,
sister of “Birth-stains” Beauchamp, helped
him to get to Australia, and he took up his
task in Ballarat, moving on presently to
Bathurst. For 10 years he pushed the Gospel
from Forbes into the Western sunset. His
crowded life ended at 30.
The bacilli family breathed a sigh of
relief when Dr. R. J. Bull, Melbourne Uni-
versity’s bacteriology director, passed on the
other 'day. A Beudigonian, he followed up
a prize-winning scholastic career by enter-
ing Trinity College as medical tutor. As
director of the G cum slaying branch, he
made the laboratory’s aid indispensable to
Government departments. In 1904 Bull was
used to fight a bubonic-plague outbreak;
he produced the vaccine which saved the
Victorian troops in Gallipoli from being
slain more frequently by typhoid than by
Turks, and he fought the meningitis out-
break with a serum. When Bull took hold
the training of students soon became only
a minor part of his department’s functions.
Murphy, M.L.A., who pulled the strings
so that the Yorks should travel by car, in-
stead of by train, through the ultra-demo-
cratic suburbs of South Melbourne and Port
Melbourne when leaving Vic., is becoming
as well-liked in Parliament as was his name-
sake who represented Warrenheip in the old
days. He is a whole-hogger on the mnde-in-
Australia issue and is strong on fair rents.
Allan must have a warm corner in his heart
for Murphy, because he went to the Duchess
about the change in arrangements, and
appealed to her as one Scot to anither.
The war rancor is dying out in Queens-
land. Recently the old Deutscher Turn
Vercin, whose hospitality used to be ex-
tended to folk of all nationalities in the
generation preceding the war, threw open its
doors in public fashion again to celebrate
the birthday of one of its members —A. Leit-
ner, the brewer. Scottish, Irish and English
associations sent representatives to the festi-
val.
Died at her home in the Blue Mountains,
Marion Laura Garnsey, a link with the early
history of English settlement in Australia.
ITer father was Thomas Walker, sprig of an
old Yorkshire family, who came here in 1818
as Deputy-Assistant Commissary-General,
being then 27 years of age and having seen
service with Wellington in the Waterloo
campaign. He carried out his duties in X. S.
Wales and Van Diemen’s Land, was given
substantial grants of land in both, and built
in succession three mansions which he called
Rhodes House, after the ancestral Rhodes
Hall. To the second of these, a substantial
stone dwelling on Sydney’s North Shore,
lie took his bride when he married, in 1823.
a daughter of John Blaxland, of Newington.
They had five sons and nine daughters,
Marion Laura being the sixth daughter. She
married late in life the Rey. Charles Garn-
sey, a widower with 10 children, and lived
till 91. Her grave in the little mountain
cemetery is close to those of two friends of
her youth in Tasmania, Cutlibert Feather-
stonhaugh, famed as a hard rider, and Norrie
Gatenby.
W. J. Skewes, who ran the Federal Publii-
Service Commission while Brudenell White
was preparing for and gallivanting about
with the Yorks, began as private sec. to
Yardstick Sargood when the Flinders-street
knight was Minister for Education and
Defence in the Munro Government in 1890-
92. His screw was then £BO, with an allow-
ance of £3O a year for shorthand-writing.
He went over to the Commonwealth in 1901
because of the poor return he had got for
11 years’ hard work. In 25 years he rose
from £2lO p.a. to his present £2OOO.
It is close on 50 years since John
McNamara and his brother David started
auctioneering in Yarrawonga (Vie.). A
younger brother, Pat, was taken in later.
The three saw the Goulburn Valley and the
Riverina grow from country which had the
reputation of “not being able to graze a
goat” to a land of thriving farms. John
McNamara, the last survivor, died the other
day at St. Kilda.
A young man who has introduced original
ideas to the building trade is Kingsley Hen-
derson, of Malvern ( Vic. 1. an Australian
architect and contractor whose methods of
preparing specifications have been praised by
American architectural journals. He has a
partnership scheme for his draftsmen that
TV. DUGGAN, vice-president of the Vie.
Labor party and president of the recent
All-Australian Trades Union Congress.
makes his business an associateship, and he
has devised an administrative system that
takes care of contracts in many States.
Henderson has been president of the Federal
Council of Architects and of the Victorian
Institute.
CRACKING HARDY.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“Premier Lang said he was in no way perturbed
by the decision of the Federal Labor executive to
ignore the delegates elected by the Easter conference.’'
T put my dough on Seale and Co.
They tell me that I made a slip
And backed a stiff ’un. Whether or no,
I’m not the man the cat to whip.
Let sour traducers rave and rip
And Tory papers sneer and slang.
You'll see no tremble on my lin
I’m cracking hardy still, says Lang.
'Tis hard to fight an open foe
While chaps behind you spar and chip
And snarling voices overflow
With curses on your leadership.
’Twould give a weaker soul the pip
To skipper such a thankless gang;
I set my teeth and keep my grip,
I’m cracking hardy still, says Lang.
With schism torn, as all must know.
Along our troublous way we trip.
I can’t disguise with bounce and blow
The mutiny aboard the ship
Of State. They have me on the hip.
So some aver, with raucous clang.
Yet I am loath my flag to dip;
I'm cracking hardy still, says Lang.
Envoy.
They've gotten Willis 'neath the whip,
Soon they’ll be on me, tooth and fang.
A bitter cup I’ll have to sip,
But though his fate may none outstrip
I’m cracking hardy still, says Lang.
n.s.vv.
MIDFORD.


COMPARISON BRINGS OUT VALUE
Contrast the Chrysler “50” with Ordinary Fours
5
a
m
No one can call up in his mind
a mental picture of the other
four-cylinder cars built today
without being actually startled
by the contrast which the Chry-
sler “50” presents.
Put the fours of large produc-
tion side by side and the Chry-
sler “50” instantly proclaims
itself compare size, beauty,
sound construction, perform-
ance and economy and no
ordinary four can possibly stand
up against it.
Chrysler Standardised Quality is a fixed and inflexible
quality standard which enforces the same scrupu-
lously close limits—the same rigid rule of engineering
exactness the same absolute accuracy and pre*
cision of alignment and assemblage—in the measure*
ment, the machining and the manufacturing of every
part, practice and process in four lines of Chrysler cars,
CHRYSLER W S(X
BUILT AS ONLY CHRYSLER BUILDS
AUSTRALASIAN DISTRIBUTORS:
N.S.W.: Larke, Heave A Carter Ltd., Grenville House, William Street, Sydney.
Vic.: Collins Motors Pty . Ltd., Chrysler House, Collins Street, Melbourne.
Qld.: Ward Motors Limited, Wickham Street, Brisbane.
Sth. Aust.: O. T. Rodda Motors Ltd., Flinders Street, Adelaide.
West Aust.: William Attwood, 299-301 Murray Street, Perth.
Tas.: Chrysler Motor Co. Pty. Ltd., Hobart and Launceston.
N X.: Todd Motor Company. 97 Courtenay Place, Wellington.


CYMA
KNOWN ALLOVERTHE WORLD
AS THE BEST TIME KEEPER
c
SOLD BY ALL JEWELLERS
Marvellous
Value
Eight Day (’lock, of reli-
able lever movement,
accurate timekeeper, with
fine bold dial. It is gilt
lacquered. stands 4in.
high, and is enclosed in
red, leatherette, travelling
case. Guaranteed for 1U
years.
Price, 57/6,
IS
FAIRFAX & ROBERTS, LTD.,
The Oldest Jewellery House in Sydney, 23 and 25 Hunter Street.
PLAIN FIGURES-
-CASH ONLY.
Pu *
lay Safe
itH Rupture.
Don’t risk the
grave dangers
af further delay.
Ensure sure,
safe and com-
fortable support
by w earing
Denyer’s Elastic
Truss. T li i s
scientific appli-
OtNVCfI
©
ance has a patent, water pad which experts
recognise as the safest and best Rupture
treatment. Permits every freedom for work
and sport. For privacy write to Dept.
Single, 27/6; Double, 37/6.
(Postage Extra.)
Free Rupture Pamphlet sent on request.
DENYER BROS.,
Makers of Trusses. Abdominal Belts and
Artificial l.imbs.
Dept. 1, 281 GEORGE STREET, SIDNEY.
ABORIGINALITIES
MADE IN AUSTRALIA
“Caesar”: “Colorado’s” experience of a
fireworks display from his blankets at night-
time (B. 28/4/’27) is not uncommon. I
have witnessed a similar phenomenon in
n.-w. Bananaland. By holding a blanket
taut and running my fingers quickly along it
I produced sparks repeatedly. The explana-
tion is simply frictional electricity. It
accounts for both the crackling sound and
the sparks.
* * * *
“Amity Point”: Don’t know about oil of
turpentine for stingray stabs (B. 21/4/’27),
but the professional seiners of Moreton Bay
(Q.) always had a good-sized bottle of am-
monia in their boats, ready for emergency.
The shallow waters of the bay swarm with
stingrays, and the barelegged fishermen, drag-
ging the ends of the seines in, were con-
tinually striking trouble. The ammonia was
poured freely into the wound. A drastic
remedy, but a remedy nevertheless.
* -Jr. :i: $
“C. Coral” : The Torres Strait islands are
happy hunting-grounds for the entomologist.
The native, liow-
ever, views the
periodic butterfly-
and-inoth visitation
with different feel-
ings. This year
certain types o f
moth have been
paying attention to
the bananas and
mangoes, and con-
siderable loss has
resulted. The
wor s t marauder
seems to be a
brownish specimen
with bright orange
markings, though a
lark brown moth of
smaller size also
has done much
damage. At night
the moths will be
found clustered on
the banana bunches
or on the mangoes,
and in a short time
their fruit will be
completely drained
of its juices. House-
holders in Thurs-
day Island wh o
have bong li t
bunches of green
bananas and hung
them up to ripen
have found on in-
spection that noth-
ing has been left
but the skins and a
mass of juiceless
pul]». Probably the
“in a u g o moth”
which does so much
damage i a the
Philippines is of
the same order.
There is one other
interesting fact con-
cerning the winged
marauders—as they
cling, satiated, to the fruit, they in turn are
preyed upon by frogs.
“Up North”; Sea-snakes can be nasty
customers. A Jap diver working through
a patch of sea-grass disturbed one of the
common green-hued variety, and its needle-
like teeth snapped the back of his hand clean
away. Sometimes a snake will circle round
a diver and peer inquisitively through the
face-glass of his helmet. At such times the
man is careful how lie shoos the slimy thing
SHE WASN’T A DOGGY OLD GIRL HERSELF.
“ That’s Billy Pagan—won five prises at the dog show."
“ I’m surprised at you, Mildred. The man may he plain, my dear, but there's no occa-
sion to make allusion to it.”
off, as the snake is liable to snap at his
naked hands with lightning quickness. Yet
I have watched a boy dive down and pick
up a teat-fish lying beside a snake coiled
up on a rock. One boy, however, dived
straight down upon two mating snakes. He
shot back to the surface and landed gasping
on the lugger’s deck. There was the gleam
of snapping teeth as the snakes flopped
above the surface, and for an instant I
thought one was going to land on the deck.
The big yellow snakes are not much feared,
though even with them the naked man takes
no chances.
"Gordelphus”: On the Murchison (W.A.)
I once saw a kangaroo with only the stump
of a tail. He was a big, red-hill fellow 7, and
wnen in action w T as quite steady; he seemed
to get along as well as a ’roo with a com-
plete rudder. But as soon as he stopped and
attempted to sit up he felt the need of some-
thing behind him. Usually he landed on his
back, and then scurried about in a desperate
attempt to get to his feet again. The situa-
tion thoroughly appealed to the Binghi sense
of humor. The abos. with me howled with
mirth. He was shot later. The stump was
so completely healed that his tail had pro-
bably been missing since early joeyhood.
* * * *
“Tamornie”: A jibbing horse is not
vicious, but temperamental. I once tried
pouring water in the ear of a jibber as
suggested by “Paul C.” (B. 28/4/’27).
After the shower of splinters from the trap
had settled, it took three of us to hold the
patient down. A passing swaggie gave me
a tip I tried when next we harnessed up the
moke. Opening his mouth, I threw in a
small handful of dried horse-dung. Neddy
became so busy trying to eject this that he
walked away without giving further trouble.
Three similar treatments during the week
resulted in a cure.
“Betoota” : Is anyone required to fill more
varied jobs than a book-keeper on a station
out back? In one week I have assisted in
yard-building, fencing, windmill-repairing,
laying water-pipes, overhauling a. motor,
erecting a hut, butchering and soldering; and
stockmanship, shingling the. missus, milking
the goats, shoeing horses and doctoring the
aches and pains of white men and black arc
merely incidental to the keeping of station
accounts.
“Boori”: My remedy for Barcoo rot is
raw meat, preferably liver, as it is easy to
deal with. I tried it at first minced with
salt, pepper and breadcrumbs, but found that
it isn’t hard to take dipped in vinegar. On
the road with sheep in the 1915 drought
three of u§ were afflicted with Barcoo about
the hands and arms. We blamed everything
except the tucker, which was the best pro-
curable. Boracic fomentations with boracic
ointment and bandages were a partial suc-
cess, but as fast as one sore healed a fresh
outbreak occurred. One night we shared
camp with a hard-bitten old drover, who
gave us the wrinkle. Treatment started there
and then, and after a week we were well on
th'e way to recovery.
* * * *
“Black Tracker’’: Just when a bird col-
lector, after a strenuous climb up a steep
ridge of the Flinders Range (S.A.), was
congratulating himself on being able to secure
two fine specimens of eaglets, the mother
bird thwarted his plans. She pushed both
out of the nest over the cliff, preferring to
take that risk. One managed to cross the
gap and landed safely, but just as tin
other was making its last desperate effort
the mother, with a magnificent swoop, dived
under the youngster and lifted it on to a
rock. There it rolled over, paralysed with
fear, but out of the enemy’s reach.
(Continued on page 27.)
TINNED-DOG CAMP.
[FOR THE BULLETIN. ]
Clatter the dish with a glad to-night
And wake all hearts to a glad reply,
For a shanty lamp has flared alight
And the camp-fire sparks are leaping high.
Red rum shall kindle us mirth to spend
And true notes rise, from a joyful ramp,
For a team has berthed at the journey’s end
In the outland haven of Tinned-dog Camp.
A torchlight burned by the greenhide door
Of the canvas shanty of Peg-leg Jack.
The dust curled up from the earthen floor
While the roof sagged low and the walls
hung slack.
We held our pannikins up in turn
For grog on tap from a reeking cask,
Till every gulp was a caustic burn,
And every breath was a painful task.
The night was mellow and liquid clear—
Faint stars and a fair moon riding high—
The sound of revel and festive cheer
In the bull-oak ridges found reply.
Oh. never a feast of song before —
Or rarely since—on the rnulga tramp
Has stirred my heart to its inmost core
As the music squandered at Tinned-dog
Camp. •
A cornet flashed in the light and spoke;
Tt warbled a soulful serenade
That hushed the voice of the throng; it woke
The pulse of youth as it soared and swayed.
It climbed the scale to the topmost D,
Then touched the heart with its tender
tones,
And visioned in liquid ecstasy
The flower of love and the pomp of thrones.
Muratti sat on a candle-box
And roused the strings of his shining liar]),
Sounding the praise of his mountain flocks
By the snowfed haunts of trout and carp.
FAIR WARNING.
BURLY BILL : “Awful stuff, this beer nowadays-pa man can’t take
a coupler gallons of it without he’s wanting to pull some
poor little inerfensive cow to pieces.”
’Neath a halo shed from the shanty lain])
He sang with rapture of Florence fair.
Of passion and grief, while Tinned-dog Camp
Was moyed, at times, by his sad despair.
When the wild acclaim died down at, last,
A violin with its pleading stirred
The dew-starred leaves of a forest vast
And the spring-touched wings of bee and
bird.
The soft bow fondled the strings, as sweet
The chiming of old cathedral bells
Rang over the fields of bearded wheat.
The marriage peals and the requiem knells.
Then cornet and harp and clarionet
Blent harmony with the violin,
And the throbbing chords of a brace quar-
tette
Made paradise of a world of sin.
We drank to the strains of drinking songs
And danced betimes to the lilting notes,
Heedless of all our rights or wrongs,
The fire of rum in our tempered throats.
The night-lights paled in the ashen dawn,
The music failed with a tuneless sigh,
When Peg-leg Jack with a gasping yawn
Informed us all that the cask was dry.
We staggered off for our tents to sleep,
For nothing at all was left to say—
Ah, rum was precious and gold was cheap,
And hardly a pick was swung that day.
I tramped again in the after days
By the trench-scarred crown of a bare
brown hill,
When mates had vanished their separate ways
From the worked-out mine and the silent
mill.
The boilers rusted, the ropes hung slack
From wheels o’er the workings foul and
damp,
And the canvas shanty of Pec-leg Jack
Had gone with the gold from Tinned-dog
Camp.
N.S.W.
GERARDY.


y
C
l
t i
m
o
c
"111
i'll,,
%SSI
'•iISSsM
mm
"Hi.
S
\ \
i tv-
r ' - W X
IV-
\ . ''
m' ]/
w
n
r
j,
r
our
r V c\V
/
A
Lm
i(iiiimnii(iuiiiiiiniiHiii«uiniiu>ußj<ti
i O i
l*
>9
r
«»
M
,---y
'JL-.. ■■
. ■ t
i. %. ms
iir
A
The wise man
heeds the writing
on the wall, then
and there suiting
the action to the
words
-_i T C hF\
AROMATIC SCHIEDAM
"oA blessing to Humanity


■K
i
Let Sond’s take
charge of those
vital few inches r
f
M
I
/
/
a
Nw\
Li
mm
sondts “HALF-HOSE
will never let you down
/
-'.XSX
Itgwiwia 11 tinflavyj
PMinwiHlliarxia Vav|} |
g«m«twa 11 stiunut c «i
r»Maiwg J imti'ww* 1 1 VS
Mttmwi 11 lliitr.irei ■ c
ptMmmuta 11 ;vuai I B j
IWiBsiIWII 11 S»H',vri3 | fl
1 CMtnn 1
am
m
\ m
xtvi xdi
9/e
Ol
w/z
Uioxj
1 WOVEN into every pair of Bond’s Australian-
* ' made Half-Hose is an honesty of purpose
resulting in the utmost service to you, whatever
the class of half-hose you seledt. Whether they
be of All Cotton, Silk and Cotton, Silk and Wool,
or Fine Pure Wool, you can rest assured that
your Bond’s Half-Hose will stand up to the stress
and strain of continuous everyday wear for far
longer than any similar hose you have worn.
Your mercer can show you a wide range of
designs and colorings some more Striking
than others, but all smart and distinctive.
HALF - HOSE
Made in Australia by the ENIPLO’t EE" of GEO.
A. BOND & CO LTD. - - All States, New
Zealand and South Africa - - - b/Ianufacturers of
Bond’s Hosiery, Half-Hose, Underwear, Towels,
bhetting - - ~ Pioneer Australian Cotton Spinners


The London and
North-Eastern Railway
of England and Scotland
Serves
Beautiful Cathedral Cities,
Seaside Resorts, Dales & Moors,
Inland Spas, Castles, Abbeys.
THE EAST COAST ROUTE
(Track of the “Flying Scotsman”) is the
Shortest, and Quickest between
London and Scotland.
Illustrated Booklets describing Resorts on the
L.N.K.R. will be gladly supplied on applica-
tion to Messrs BURNS,' PHI UP & 00., LTD.,
10 Bridge Street, Sydney, and Branches: or
in London at the L.N.K.R. West End Offices.
71 Regent Street, and 59 Piccadilly, W.l.
TOUR ENGLAND & SCOTLAND
by L.N.E.R.
SMOKINC
k TOBACCO :
Australian Agents: R. TOWNS & CO., SYDNEY.
Top Prices at Winchcombe-Carson’s sales
arc an encouragement for skin-getters to make war
on the rabbit.
The firm's work is reliable and capable. As a
result buyers operate with confidence at Winch-
combe-Carson auctions, and owners consistently secure
full market values.
CONSIGN SKINS:
WINCKCOIVIBE, CARSON
LTD.
SYDNEY OR BRISBANE.
“ Vosadina”: “Tamornie’s” par. (B.
“1/4, ’27) recalls the belief held by the
people living on the islands of the D’Entre-
casteaux group, s.-e. Papua, that falling
stars are witches; that is to say, the oldest
and ugliest women of the villages endowed
with power to turn themselves into falling
stars. These witches the natives believe,
fly abroad in search of boys who have left
their homes and are working on plantations
and ships. So fixed is this belief that it is
quite common lo hear islanders shout, on
the appearance of a falling star, “Mother,
mother, spare our children.” The reason
at the hack of it is that the old women of
the villages do not like the boys to leave on
indenture, as it will mean that they receive
none of the tobacco and other odds and ends
the young men usually pass on to them. So
out of revenge they pursue the wanderers in
the guise of stars.
* * * *
“W..T.8.”: Fed-up with conditions in
N.S.W., I started for Queensland during a
long-ago summer
and camped one
day by a billabong.
A cloud of dust on
the horizon
heralded a visitor,
and shortly after-
wards a horseman
reached my camp,
dismounted and un-
packed. Clad in a
soft white shirt,
with white moleskin
r i din g-breeches,
concertina leggings
and a cabbage-tree
hat, and standing
tall and willowy as
a Haw k e sbnry
native, he was a
remarkable sight
on those sunburnt
plains. Accepting
a pot of tea, he sat
down cross-legged
and produced a
packet of sand-
wiches wrapped in
a serviette. “Help
yourself,” he said.
In conversation, he
advised me to go to
the Diamantina,
w here, lie ex-
plained, there were
mobs of cattle mov-
in g Continually
overland to
Wodonga (Vic.).
He presented me
with a plug of
tobacco and the
remainder of the
sandwiches before
leaving, after con-
sulting a go 1 d
watch. Reaching
Tinenburra, I was
asked whether I
had met Mr. Tyson.
I told them I
hadn’t; only an
old chap with whom I had lunched. Sub-
sequently I discovered that for the first —and
last —time I had dined with a millionaire.
* * * =!:
“Gouger”: Bushed one drizzling evening
in a gloomy Atherton (N.Q.) jungle. I spied
a light radiating amongst the timber and
pushed on, much relieved yet surprised at
signs of habitation in this wilderness of trees.
As I advanced the light brightened to pencil-
like ravs piercing the cracks of a door before
which hung a green curtain. Fingering
my way round a gigantic tree, I stepped
into a glowing patch of light enveloped by
the gloom of the forest. A tall, hollow
stump, cracked in many places, was filled
with greenish radiance, as if inside it shone
an electric arc light. The hollow was filled
with hanging phosphoric beards.
* * * *
“Werrimee”: Binghi’s tomahawk always
has a flat gum handle, tapered towards the
end. I have seen him take an ordinary
factory-made handle
out of a new toma-
hawk and replace it
with one of his own.
Tn his opinion the
factory handle isn’t
properly made —and
he is not altogether
wrong. What, for in-
stance, is the object of
the knob on the end
of a tomahawk or axe
handle? The first thing
an axeman does is to
saw it off. He has
been doing it for gen-
erations, and yet the
factories keep on turn-
ing out nothing but
knobbics. Nothing
looks more awkward
than the bulge, and the
handle is just as awk-
v. ard to use as it looks.
An implement wutli the undoctored handle is
rather scornfully inferred to as “a woman’s
wood-axe.”
* * * *
“Eureka”: I once saw an abo. girl in
N.Q. whose only garb was a one-piece dress
made out of flourbags. Across her back
was printed the brand of the doughmaker,
“Eilywhite.” She w r as as black as the ace
of spades.
ijc #
“Eureka”: A dog belonging to a farmer
in the Bega (N.S.W.) district gave birth
to a litter of pups, and the owner, having
no use for them, drowned them in front
of the lamenting mother. When her next
litter was about to arrive she left for the
bush and gave birth to her young in an
almost inaccessible spot on the mountain
side. Now that the pups are able to look
after themselves she has returned to the
farm, leaving her family at home, where they
hunt rabbits and forage for food. Appar-
ently, she has made her young understand,
for although the pups now hunt all over the
farm, and even invade other farmhouses,
they never venture near the residence of
their mother’s owner.
* * * *
“Barmac”: In stating that animals have
practically no memory “Gregor” (B. 7/5/’2T)
has overlooked some obvious facts. Animals
of comparatively small reproductivity and the
objects of prey must possess a fairly active
memory, otherwise they would have been
wiped out. The invertebrates, such as snails
and caterpillars, possess only an organic
memory; that is, the registration of experi-
ence on the nervous system and answering
only to some sensory stimulus.
* * * *
“Gouger”: She was a featherhead-turtle
of great girth and weight. Her life’s task
well done, she turned seawards and, doing
so, stared into the eyes of an alligator.
Madam instantly clumped her shell into the
sand, only her bulky, snake-like head pro-
truding from that dome of armor-plate. Then
she hissed angry defiance. The alligator
came with a fierce broadside rush and
thrashed downward with his tail. The big
curved shell, sand-supported, echoed dully
to the blows and a swarm of gulls screamed
hungrily overhead, waiting for the crumbs
that would fall to them from this battle.
The-’gator came again with a swerving rush
and rooted his long snout under the edge of
the shell. Furiously he shoved, trying to
lever the turtle over. Careful he was to
expose only the horniest portions of his
leathery hide to the shear-blade jaws of the
turtle, which manipulated its great weight
so that the twisting snout could only flop
it an inch or two up and down upon the
sand. The ’gator then withdrew to circle
the turtle, his thrusting snout continually
seeking an exposed point of leverage, which
the turtle obviated by boring its bulk deeper
into the sand. The enraged 'gator again
charged it with snout and claws, body and
tail. A moist channel was ploughed by the
struggling beasts. The ’gator wormed liis
snout tip under and would not withdraw it,
though half his squirming bulk was buried
in the sand. The turtle, with great but
clumsily-applied strength, struggled to ease
the rim of its shell from the steel-like lever.
But the harder it pressed aside the further
its offside shell rim was driyen into the
impeding sand, while inch by inch the alli-
gator's snout bored under its body. _ In 20
minutes the turtle was wedged deep into the
running sand with the alligator’s long snout
“’STRUTH, I’YE ( HIG) PUT OR XII TO RE SURGE YES HERD AY.”
completely under it. The combatants rested
for panting minutes. Then the alligator
hunched a muscular, distended back, drew
his stubby claws well under him, thrashed
about slowly until his broad tail was buried
to an immovable grip, and then levered
upward. Inch by inch the turtle was cap-
sized. Ten minutes later the jackals of the
air were pecking the helplessly exposed por-
tions of her body and the alligator, dead-
beat, was resting before the meal.
* % * *
“Vandyke Brown” : Though Maoriland is
very free from insect pests, it harbors in the
southern portion of the North Island the
katipo spider. This insect frequents some
of the beaches in the Wellington district,
and is capable of inflicting a poisonous bite
which may even prove fatal. In the North
Auckland Peninsula there is also to be found
the weri, a particularly loathsome-looking
centipede, brown in color and often nine
inches in length. Its body is divided into
segments, each equipped Avith a pair of power
ful legs. As a rule, its habitat is in rotten
logs or under large stones, but occasionally
during a spell of very wet weather it may
crawl for shelter into a dwelling-house. On
two or three occasions I have awakened in
the night to hear the rushing sound pro-
duced by the many legs moving up the side
of the tent, and I think I can honestly say
that I hold the world’s record for sudden-
ness in getting out of bed.
* * * *
“C. Coral”: Torres Strait boys find the
electric torch capital for producing startling
effects in the dances; and it has other uses.
One of my boys was throwing the spot beam
over the water, with a crowd peering over
his shoulder. I asked what it was all about,
and this was his reply: “When we bring
dingliv ashore for you, time low water, close
up we fall down over big fella crocodile.
We sing out and make light along this torch,
then he go away; but you look now, you
look eye belong him. That fella he look
along this place, but we show torch all time
and eye belong him he come big, so we savee
where he stop.” Sure enough, I spotted the
baleful gleam of the croc.’s optic some dis-
tance out. shining vividly at the end of- the
shaft of light.
* * * >y-
“Percy” : Is this uncommon ? All the past
summer wdien we went in bathing in the
river our pet emu used to take a dip with us.
He was quite a graceful swimmer and would
stay in the water for hours.
:'f * ■ * *
“Wandi” : I saw a binglii run a goanna up
a high stump. He wanted it for dog-meat,
but no matter how smartly he got round,
the lizard kept on the opposite side. All he
could see to hurl his waddy at was a vanish-
ing tail. At last he got two long sticks, put
his hat on the end of one, and thrust it
round the left side of the stump. The quarry
immediately darted to the opposite side, and
with a ouick jab with his other stick the
hunter had him off.
THE GINGER-WHISKERED COVE.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The coach from Dingo Creek rolled into
Gidyagidgee town,
And stretching weary, jolted limbs the pas-
sengers got down.
We watched the usual parade from our ver-
andah seat —
A clergyman, a station hand, a whaler off
his beat.
But one there was who held our gaze when
into sight he hove —
A stranger long and angular, a ginger-
whiskered cove.
Such whiskers we had never seen in all the
storied West!
Like an inverted setting sun they draped
the grower’s chest.
We gazed in speechless rapture till he hailed
us in a roar:
“Come on, yous cows, an’ wet yer necks!”
and made for Shindy’s door.
We followed in without a word, a gaping,
thirsty drove.
Completely fascinated by the ginger-
whiskered cove.
Then in his dulcet tones which shook the
bottles on the shelf
He swung his weird cliin-drapery and intro-
duced himself:
“I’m Blazing Bob from Boggaroo, where
strangers seldom call—
Because when they offend us there we eat
’em, boots an’ all !
A tougher snag you’ll never meet, no matter
where you rove —
That’s me, boys!” modestly remarked the
ginger-whiskered cove.
Ah, then began a nightmare week for Gidya-
gidgee town !
With Trooper Brown away (a lucky thing for
Trooper Brown !)
The stranger took possession of the bar at
Shindy’s pub—
lie caught the Chinese cook and tried to
hang him in the scrub.
He bit a fencer’s ear in two, on beer and bash
he throve —
He seemed to lack gentility, the ginger-
whiskered cove.
And through each night his voice arose in
alcoholic joy—
He knew all thirty verses of “The Wild
Colonial Boy.”
He roared the ballads bushmen sang full
fifty years before.
SEEMS PRETTY GOOD TO HIM.
"Yen, as if sec, me an’ the missus ain’t been ’ittin’ it too flood
lately.”
"Well, if she can do better ’n that she must be a bonser.”
And in between he sought a chance of spill-
ing someone’s gore,
While tales of crimson riots in bloodthirsty
vein he wove
Till we were somewhat weary of the ginger-
whiskered cove.
But once again the coach came in to Gidya-
gidgee towm,
And from it stepped a little dame with
features lean and brown.
We heard a loud, familiar voice the hush of
ev’ning jar—-
The little woman shut her lips and stepped'
into the bar.
As Blazing Robert caught her eye unto the
bar he clove,
All fight evaporated from the ginger-whiskered
cove!
“The missus— ’struth!” he weakly gasped,
and white his features grew.
Then retribution swiftly fell on Bob from
Boggaroo.
She seized two handfuls of his beard, and
swung him to his knees,
And kicked him underneath the chest, unheed-
ful of his pleas.
Such scenes are not for other eyes ; so through
the door we hove
And left his soul-mate dealing with the
ginger- whiskered cove.
Next morn the coach went rolling forth, and
at the driver’s side
The gentleman from Boggaroo sat meekly by
his bride.
Stilled was the erst familiar roar, chastened
and silent now,
He humbly sagged behind his beard, his hat
low on his brow.
The w T eek of liberty was done; and through
the myall grove
Went westward like the setting sun the
ginger-whiskered cove.
M.L.
RIVERINA.


QN
BANK
THE QUEENSLAND NATIONAL BANK, LIMITED.
Incorporated under the Companies Act 1863. Established 1872.
Directors —A. C. Luya, Esq., Chairman; James Love, Esq.; \V. H. Hart, Esq.;
M. J. Rvan, Esq. ; D. W. Macdonald, Esq.
General Manager— M. G. HAYMEN.
HEAD OFFICE BRISBANE
With offices at London, Canberra (Federal Territory), Melbourne, Sydney, and
95 branches in Queensland and Northern Rivers, N. S. Wales, also representation
through the leading Banking Institutions covering Australasia and the World, this
Bank offers the fullest facilities for the transaction of all general banking business.
TUDOR
ACCUMULATORS
for Reliability and Long Life.
Australasian Office—
TUDOR ACCUMULATOR CO., LTD.,
Culwulla Chambers, Castlereagh Street, SYDNEY.
Visitors to Brisbane! Book up at th
HOTEL CECIL
(FIRST CLASS)
Reasonable Tariff—Good Position.
iO
“CLYDE
BATTERIES"
For RADIO, MOTOR-CARS AND
COUNTRY HOME LIGHTING.
THE CLYDE ENGINEERING COMPANY, Ltd
Granville; and Goulburn Street, Sydney, N.S.W.
THE MAN
ON THE LAND'S
PAGE
DRY-PICK LING W HEAT.
“A..1.V.”: Following are a few practical
hints which may be of use to some who are
using for the first time the method of pick-
ling with copper carbonate for ball-smut in
wheat
(1) Never over-pickle; 2oz. per bushel is ample.
Further, see that the machine you are using has
adequate provision for sieving io take, off any surplus
powder that is not actually adhering lo the grain.
If not, the same may be accomplished by allowing
the grain to run over a sloping fly-wire sieve into the
bag. It is the tree powder that causes most of the
trouble in the drill. A slightly bleached, not a
blue, appearance is all that is required in well-
pickled grain.
(2) Sowing through the oat or coarse side will
le sen the tha nee of breakages in drilling. My
experience is that the. drill sows about two and
a half times more grain by this means than is
indicated for wet-pickled seed on the card in the
drill. Thus to sow tlOlb. per acre put on the cog
recommended for 361 b. wet pickled grain. It is
advisable, however, for each man to jack up bis
drill and test the above method for himself.
(3.) If possible never let the drill stand full
overnight; and always before starting give her a
turn with the handle to make sure everything is
running O.K.
(4) Never let dry-pickled seed get wet; it sets
like concrete.
The pickling .job is best done in the open
or in an open sited, and even then is not
to be recommended to asthma subjects or
t liggers affected by gas.
IS COPPER CARBONATE HARMFULV
Several correspondents have written com-
plaining that they have felt sick after hand-
ling wheat “pickled” with dry copper car-
bonate. As Dr. Darnell Smith, now Director
of the Botanic Gardens, Sydney, was the
officer of the N.S.W. Agricultural Depart-
ment whose fine research work was respon-
sible for flic development and official
recommendation of the process, he was asked
whether lie thought them was any danger
in using it. Dr. Darnell Smith replies :
“Dry copner carbonate is a fine impalpable
dust. When seed wheat is being dusted in
a machine a certain amount of this dust
is liable to escape into the air (the amount
depending upon the make of the machine),
in which it remains suspended. To breathe
this dust for a considerable period of time
will make the throat dry and parched, and
this may be followed by headache and a
certain amount of indisposition. If dust is
escaping from the machine, the user should
stand on the windward side.
“If 2oz. of copper carbonate per bushel,
the amount recommended, be used, and not
more, this will be practicallv all taken up
and held by the small brush at the end of
each grain of wheat, so that little trouble
from the dust should ho experienced when
sowing.”
THE GALAII NUISANCE.
“Saaedi”: The best way to rid the crop-
paddock of galaks (B. 28/4/'27) is with
poisoned wheat. Strychnine is the most
effective poison to use. and may be dissolved
in vinegar. Soak the wheat all night in
the poisoned liquid, and then scatter it at
various places along the edge of the ploughed
land —beneath trees on which the galahs
frequently alight, if there are any. Having
done this, mount a fast horse and keep hunt-
ing the cockies off the crop, without, how-
ever, firing a shot or doing anything to
drive them away from the immediate vicin-
ity. Soon the galahs will find the poisoned
wheat and, then —finish ! I have on several
occasions completely cleared crop-paddocks
of galahs by this method. Not only did
I destroy the galahs, hut all the foxes, crows
and eagles for miles round arrived to feast
on the dead parrots, and were in many cases
themselves knocked.
FALLOW IN WINDY COUNTRY,
“Glenfield” : The greatest trouble the cocky
has with his fallow in the Yic. Mallee is the
winds. If worked down fine, the mulch blows
right away, leaving the hard seed-bed ex-
posed and the consequent loss of the mois-
ture which he has been at pains to con
serve. A good method to counteract these
winds is to work the fallow on nothing less
than 25 points of rain and cease immediately
the dust cloud starts to rise behind the im-
plement. Discard the harrows for light
workings, especially on sandy ground, in
favor uf the spring-tooth cultivator, which
leaves the mulch ridgy.
It is also advisable to work so that the
ridges run against .the prevailing winds.
These ridges tend to reduce the velocity of
the wind nearer the ground, and they catch
the drift, so that the gutters fill up with
mulch.
BOBBING THE SOIL OF LIME.
‘‘Nemo": “Bark" (B. 7/4/’27.) opens an
interesting subject in mentioning that basic
super, gives better results than super, on
ironstone country. That soil is poor in car-
bonate of lime. Super, consists of mono-
calcic phosphate (one part of lime, one part
of phosphoric acid and the rest of the bag
gypsum). Basic super, is dicalcic (two
parts of lime, one part plios. acid, the rest
carbonate of lime). All plants require
natural or dicalcic phosphate, and all super,
has to get that extra part of lime from the
soil by reversion before it is any good to
the plant. Hence when super, is applied
to soils poor in lime, its deficiency is soon
noticeable. How long it will be before the
use of super, knocks out the lime in the
richest soils ( e.ft Wimmera) may not be
definitely known. But do it eventually it
must, and its unaccompanied application
means that farmers are living on (heir capi-
tal—represented in this case by carbonate
of lime.
SWINE FEVER.
“Max": The outbreak of swine fever
which deprived the Sydney Show of its pig
exhibits still rages in the County of Cum-
berland, and many well-known farms are
THE VOICE OF THE TEMPTER.
THE DICK: “Come out, little pet. It’s quite all right—l don’t cat between meals.”
almost wiped out. Tbe condemned pigs
which are being burnt daily represent very
serious losses. Although the Government
regulations are apparently satisfactory, it
is only during an outbreak of this disastrous
disease that the more intelligent farmers
realise that the rules are not strict enough.
Great hindrance to the checking of the
disease is provided by that type of con-
ceited person who never admits misfortune,
and who noisily boasts that there is nothing
wrong with Ms stock. An instance of this
kind has occurred in the Parramatta dis-
trict, where a pig-farmer with a serious
outbreak of fever in his sties induced a
neighbor with a clean farm to accept several
valuable pigs as boarders, “in case something
did happen.” The boarders, which ulti-
mately died, evidently carried the germs of
the disease on their feet, for the clean farm
became infected, causing ruinous loss to the
owner. The few farms which have so far
escaped the epidemic are constantly requested
to take charge of apparently healthy pigs
from infected sties —which reveals a shock-
ing indifference to the fate of one’s neighbor.
There should be a regulation compelling
the publication of the names and addresses
of farms where the disease is in progress,
or they should be compelled to fly a yellow
flag on the gate. The full benefits of isola-
tion cannot be secured unless it is enforced
on the. individual as well as on the afflicted
district.
ÜBA CANE.
“Esorcus”: Efforts are being made by
some of the southern Queensland cane-
growers to have Üba removed from the list
of disapproved canes drawn up by the Cen-
tral Cane Prices Board. The movement pro-
bably arises from the fact that one milling
company which is also a large grower of
cane grows a considerable portion of its own
crop in Üba. Under the circumstances the
small growers resent the limitations at pre-
sent imposed upon them, and in their efforts
to have the ban removed, have invested Üba
with all kinds of good qualities.
The chief merit of Üba lies in the fact that
it is able to produce a crop with a lower
rainfall than is required for most other vari-
eties. Otherwise it is an inferior cane, of low
sugar content, and the impurities associated
with the juice make the recovery of sugar
difficult and costly. Contrary to popular
ideas, it is susceptible to frost, and is not
more than ordinarily resistant to disease, ex-
cept Mosaic disease, to which it is immune.
In South Africa, where Üba is practically
the whole crop, the rainfall is well below that
ordinarily regarded as necessary for cane
growing. In that country the yield of sugar
doubtfully averages ITcwt. per acre, con-
trasted with the Queensland average of
rather more than two tons per acre.
In Queensland the industry has endea-
vored to produce the most economic canes as
one phase of a well-thought-out policy
directed to reducing the disparity with other
sugar countries in the matter of production
costs. This has resulted in Queensland
developing the richest canes of any sugar
country in the world. To encourage the
growth of notably inferior canes would now
be a retrograde step ; and, although it might
permit individuals in dry areas and on poor
lands to enter into cane-growing, it is not
desirable from either an industry or a
national point of view that such lands should
be brought under contribution while large
areas of rich cane-growing lands remain un-
developed.
At the moment the best minds of the
industry are engaged on the problems pre-
sented by the over-production of sugar, and
the necessity of selling the surplus abroad
at prices which do not cover the net costs of
production. This has checked the extension
of the industry along the rich northern lit-
toral. where further settlement is a matter of
prime national importance. What, then, can
be the justification for growing Üba, which
bolds out no promise other than that it will
grow under less favorable climatic conditions
than the better varieties?
DOES BRANDING DAMAGE WOOL?
“Solo’’: “Trepex” (B. 21/4/'27) says that
the present-day sheep-branding fluids are not
deleterious to wool. The facts are quite
otherwise; they emphatically are very in-
jurious ; they are not “readily soluble in any
liquid stronger than cold water”; they can-
not, in fact, he removed from wool by the
ordinary scouring method, which is a decid-
edly stronger washing medium than cold
water. Chemists in all the wool-manufac-
turing centres of the world are endeavoring
to perfect some means of easily and cheaply
removing brands from wool, and I want to
assure “Trepex” that I know what I am
talking about.
When greasy fleece wool is being sorted
into matchings by the manufacturer, one ol
the sorter’s jobs is to carefully remove all
brands. These brands are afterwards clip
ped from the wool, adding to the cost of th>
finished article, whether tops or yarn. When
the greasy matchings are scoured it is some
one’s job to carefully pick out any brand?
which are showing in the scoured product
Should any be missed, as they sometimes arc
and the wool is combed, the brands are stil
in the wool, but are now chiefly in the noils
To remove the brands from the noil—im
perative if the noil is to be used for any fabrii
of a delicate color or for hat manufactun
—the noil has to go through a chemical solu
lion. What this chemical is Ido not know
but there are firms in England and Belgian
which will undertake to remove brands. 1
any firm in Australia can do the job I wouh
like to meet it. The process of carbonisim
burr and other vegetable matter out of woo
has not the slightest effect towards removin;
brands. The chemical removal of the latte
is a costly job, and a secret process. If tin
wool has first to be carbonised, the carbon
ising charge in Belgium, which is th
cheapest centre, is 44d. per lb. on the eleai
product, and the brand-removal charge i
(id. extra on the clean product. It is on I.
when a very fine wool is wanted for a specia
purpose that it pays to treat it.
The danger in “Trepex’s” statement i
in the fact that he mentions his 18 years
experience on the wool show-floors of Byd
ney. This does not make him an authorin
on this subject. He may never even hay
heard wool-buyers discussing the brands ii
the wool they are offered; neither perhap
would he hear them discussing the jut
which gets into the wool, nor the burr:
which are there.
I am not advising the grower how bettei
to brand his sheep, neither am I squeal in:
about this thing, which is one of the trouble
of the textile manufacturer. I am simplj
declaring that “Trepex” has spoken in ignor
a nee.
OIL IN THE PIGGERY.
“J.H.”: Cod-liver oil, which used to br
the bane of the nursery, may yet prove tin
blessing of the pig-sty. The Norwegian
Department of Agriculture has been conduct
ing extensive experiments with a view tr
arresting rickets in pigs. The disease b
largely due to intensive fattening, and il
was thought that one of its causes mighi
be the absence of mineral salts from Hit
meals —in Norway—of edible roots, maize,
soya-bean meal and skim milk. It has been
discovered that this otherwise ideal menu
is lacking in the all-important vitamin? 1
A, the absence of which has induced
rickets. Cod-liver oil and herring meal have
been found to be rich in vitamine A, and
the addition of these to the pig’s diet has
solved the problem. Neither flavors the
flesh, fresh or cured.
THE WOOL SEASON.
The annual reviews of the Australian
wool season, now being issued by the wool-
handling firms, for the most part bear out
the interim comment published in The
Bulletin. This is particularly the case as
regards the appreciation of merino wool, and
the impetus given by the revived activity of
Continental buyers other than those of
France. The French have not been the
buyers they were in the previous year.
Winchcombe Carson’s circular, which can
be taken as typical of these summaries, gives
some interesting details. Chief of these is
the increase of the Australian clip in 1926-
27 by 52 per cent, as compared with 1920-
21, the past season’s total rising to 2,500,000
bales as against 1,635,186 in the earlier
period. This notwithstanding that the
Queensland drought cut heavily into that
State’s output. The average of 17d. for the
clip was satisfactory, but was balanced by
the drop in sheep values —fifteen and a half
millions sterling. While the best values were
shown in merinos, comeback and fine cross-
breds were 50 per cent, higher than in 1914,
but medium and coarse varieties were only
from 25 to 17 per cent, higher.
A feature of the year has been Germany s
re-entry to the market, with Belgium and
Italy. Japan, the fourth best of our cus-
tomers, has set the fashion in the demand
for merinos, for which Sydney is the worlds
biggest selling centre. Japan has also been
buying Victorian and N.S.W. tops solidly-
or did till the last few r weeks, when financial


..jf/tel i.
%
CHAFFCUTTERS
Patent Self-feeder.
Improved Non-choking Mouth. Cannot be Excelled for
Sample in Hay.
SPECIALLY ADAPTED FOR LUCERNE, CLOVER
AND RYE CRASS.
Adjustable mouthplates. Automatic Pressure.
Installed on Government Farms in N.S.W., Vic. and S.A.
TRAVELLING, STATIONARY BLOWERS.
8, 10, 12 inch mouth.
SAW BENCHES. IRON FRAME.
MANURE SPREADERS.
Sole Representatives of Ban.ford’s “English’’ Spreaders—Makers to the King.
MAYNE & WHITE PTY., LTD., Emerald Street, Collingwood, Melbourne
IRISH LINEN
DIRECT FROM THE MANUFACTURERS
Robinson Sc Cleaver have produced the finest linen on the
market for over 50 years, by purchasing from them you
ensure a STANDARD QUALITY AT LOWEST PRICES
Delivery of Goods
is Guaranteed.
Orders of over flO
Carriage Paid by
Parcels Post to
destination, or by
Steamer to port of
landing.
m
im.
This beautifully
illustrated Cata-
logue of Fine Irish
Linens, together
with Samples will
be sent post free.
Ask for No. SSD.
IRISH TABLE LINEN.
From the least expensive to the very finest.
Table Cloths 2 yards square from 11/3 each
with Napkins to match, 12/6 per dozen.
Extra Heavy Unbleached All Linen Damask,
by the yard. Width 56 inches 3/6 per yard.
IRISH HOUSEHOLD LINENS.
Heavy Plain Cream Linen Sheeting, by the
yard. Width 72 inches, 4/4 per yard.
Extra Heavy Unbleached All Linen Huckaback
Towelling. Width 24 inches, 1/8 per yard.
Cream Linen Tea or Glass Towelling, 22 inches
wide, 1/1 per yard.
IRISH LINEN HANDKERCHIEFS.
Ladies’ Hemstitched Handkerchiefs from 4/9
per dozen; Men’s size from 8/3 per dozen.
SHIRTS AND COLLARS.
Cut, made and laundered in our own work-
rooms. Best quality materials used throughout.
Soft Fronted Shirts, Mercerised Twill, 5/11.
Zephyr and Oxford from 9/6; Linen from 12/6;
Poplin 15/- each.
Linen faced “Castle” Collars 12/- per dozen.
WRITE FOR LIST OF MEN’S WEAR.
ROBINSON &CLEAVER
Irish Linen
Manufacturer*
BELFAST
NORTHERN IRELAND.
The Home of
Iri&h Linen
'/)
7
/
♦
(
Tr adc
Mar*
Hmuiurw
R
M
Obtainable
from every
dealer in
Australia.
Saif P* All
and ifou saq
RcM
USIC
Your radio dealer won’t have a fit.
He’ll just ask you, or, if you wish,
advise you what type to use and
bring you a Mullard P.M. Valve
with the wonderful P.M. Filament.
Every Mullard P.M. Filament is built on
the rock bottom foundation of mechanical
strength, low current consumption, gen-
erous emission surface. There is a P.M.
Valve to suit every holder in your set,
but there is only one filament —
THE P.M.
For 2-volt accumulator
P.M-1 H.F o*l amp. 13/6
P.M.I L.F 01 amp. 13/6
P.M.2 (Power) ... ' o'ls amp. 13/6
For 4-volt accumulator or 3 dry cells
P.M.3 (General Purpose) O'l amp. 13 6
P.M.4 (Power) O'l amp. 13/6
For 6-volt accumulator or 4 dry cells
P.M.5 (General Purpose) O'l amp. 13/6
P.M.58 (Res. Capacity) 0.1 amp. 13/6
P.M.6 (Power) ••• ••• O'l amp. 13/6
Super power valves for last L.F. stag•
P.M.254 (4 volts) 0.25 amps. 15/.
P.M.256 (6 volts) 0.25 amps. 15/-
AII Mullard Valves are made at the Mullard Works,
BaUiam, London, F.ng.
Mullard
THE * MASTER-VALVE
The Mullard Wireless Service Co., Ltd., Mullard House, Denmark St., L ndon, W.C., Bn*.
Advt.
troubles fell upon the country suddenly.
Britain still heads the list of buyers, with a
strong demand for crossbred sorts. Aus-
tralian mills rank just below the United
States, but are well up on a population
basis. Germany, with a keen all round
demand, has been particularly eager for
skirtings.
Summed up, the wool market for the next
two or three years seems certain to remain
steady. But, while medium and coarse cross-
breds will possibly not be affected, the distant
future of merinos hinges to a great extent
on an advance or otherwise in the quantity
grown.
THE COR RUED ALE SHEEP.
“R. E. Combing’’: In the last two seasons
a Corriedale ram in Maoriland has grown
a fleece of 241 b. and 251 b. respectively. This
sounds attractive to the man who prefers
the jumbuck which cuts wool that “fills the
bales,” as the saying goes.
The success of this breed now seems as-
sured. It was developed on the more or
less comeback type to meet a triple purpose —
weight of fleece, weight of carcase and a
good average quality of wool. These aims
have been fairly well realised, and, in addi-
tion. it is a good resister of footrot and a
quicker maturer than the merino. It is a
good doer, too, and fends well for itself in
all seasons.
I confess to a personal prejudice against
the wool; it grows too long for its quality
and thins down and straightens in the fibre
rather perceptibly as the animal grows older.
Still there is no doubt that, in certain
localities, Corriedales are a desirable propo-
sition ; but I insist that sheep must be
suited to the country on which they are
run. In Maoriland, in 1926, the number
of Corriedale stud sheep was second only
to the Romney Marsh, and during the
preceding 20 years it had increased in
bigger proportion than any other. It is
true, too, that a false impression may be
gained from the many nondescript and
spqrious classes that are designated Corrie-
dale. There is no need for the buyer or
intending buyer to be taken in over this.
The Corriedale Sheepbreeders’ Association
keeps a wary eye on the purity of type
which is produced by its members. Anything
that is passed by them has their hallmark
put on in the shape of the letter “C” tat-
toed on the ear.
BUSH FIRE-BEATERS.
“J.F.S.”: Scores of fires get away and
tens of thousands of acres of grass and
crops are burnt simply because no effective
means of extinguishing them are instantly
available. Bags and bushes are generally
used. The former soon become so dry that
they are continually on fire, unless a supply
of wmter is handy to keep them soaked, and
even then a man has to bend so low in
striking that the heat soon puts him out
of action. Bushes, even where they arc
available, soon break up and become useless.
The most effective beater is a greenliide
flail. The hide should be about 4ft. long
and four or five inches wide, thoroughly
secured to a light sapling, or, still better,
a hoe- or rake-handle about the same length
as the hide. The hide should be first secured
with a few clout-headed nails, and then
bound with picture-frame or other light
wire. If bound with wax-end or cord it is
liable to dry out and come loose under the
heavy strain and heat. As many flails as
are likely to be required should always be
ready and kept where they can be picked up
instantly a fire breaks out.
THE DRIED-FRUITS INDUSTRY.
“K.K.”: The position may not be satis-
factory, but one thing is sure—the Aus-
tralian grower is receiving a bigger return
for liis fruit than are his competitors, despite
what is claimed for the efficiency of the Yank
sales organisation. Australian gordos and
currants are certainly non-pay able varieties
for the time being, but they are not so
unpayable that we should root them out, as
“Croesus” suggests (B. 14/4/’27), to grow
fodder that would cost us twice as much as
chaff grown outside the district, or that we
should go in for side-lines (tobacco, rice, cot-
ton, etc.) whose net returns it would be safe
to say would show permanently a much
greater loss than lexias and currants are
showing temporarily. Some of the side-lines
are in more need of a bounty than the vine
varieties for which a subsidy is being asked.
Lexias and currants have not yet recovered
a satisfactory market value since the slump
of four or five years ago, but we have
every reason to believe that they can be
made payable varieties. If, for instance, the
Tariff Board would recommend, as w r e have
requested, a higher duty on dates (the chief
competitive line with lexias), room would
be made for an extra consumption of lexias,
and not only would our troubles as lexia-
producers be solved, but the Australian
public would not then be consuming 3000
tons a year of an article that, to say the
least of it, isn’t produced under Board of
Health or Pure Food regulations. As for
currants, someone ought to give a tip to our
Canadian friends that, unless they show r
more enthusiasm for our dried fruits, they
vill have to come on the same tariff footing
as the people whose fruit they evidently
refer to buy. The granting of a bounty
on these varieties is proposed as a temporary
measure, and one that would give the grower
a satisfactory return at less cost to the
Government, which is indirectly paying a
bigger bounty than is asked for on the quan-
tities of these varieties now sent to the dis-
tilleries.
One libel on the industry that calls for
special comment is the statement that the
Australian consumer pays the grower exces-
sive prices for dried fruits. An appreciable
reduction in the selling price to the grocer
would mean that w r e growers would have to
sell twice as much fruit in Australia as at
present in order to get the same return—in
effect, Australians would have to consume
practically twice as much dried fruits per
head as any other people. Up to date the
experience of the industry in price-reduction
has not shown that it has been followed by
an increase in consumption, and in one
:;otable instance a 2d. per lb. reduction was
actually followed by a decrease. A further
point to be remembered in connection with
the price of dried fruits is that we growers
can only control the price up to the grocer,
and that the State control boards have been
challenged to take the fixing of the price and
the determination of handling charges out of
the hands of the growers’ association, with
the result that so far no one in authority
has been able to indicate how or where
charges or prices could or should be reduced.
A NEW BREED OF SHEER.
“Bar Sinister" : If imitation be really sin-
cere flattery, our American cousin has been
throwing bouquets at us again. According to
the Breeders’ Gazette, a Californian sheep
man, A. T. Spencer, has evolved a new sheep,
the Romedale. The name recalls the Aus-
tralasian effort in the same line which is now
known far and wide as the Corriedale. But
whereas the latter w r as established on a
Lincoln-Leicester-Merino cross, the latest has
been built up on a Romney-Rambouillet-
Merino basis.
The new sheep was designed for wet soil,
lucerne and other heavy pasturage and twice-
a-year shearing—a fairly exacting require-
ment, to begin with. Careful attention was
given to producing a type which would shear
a staple fleece in March and a fine-combing
jacket in August—summer and winter coats,
in short. This having been established, at-
tention wms directed to body-building, with
mutton in view, and the experimenter now
claims that his type is firmly established.
Further, by crossing the ewes with Hamp-
shire rams, a fast-growing class of lamb is
produced.
All this is said to have happened within 10
years. In another decade, at this rate, the
breeder should have evolved a type of sheep
with a slip-on fleece varying from super-
silkworm quality to 40’s-50’s, able to run a
mile in 1.40 and play the saxophone.
THE COMMUNITY SPIRIT.
“Glenfield” : Taking the family out for a
breath of fresh air on a recent hot Sunday,
we headed Elizabeth towards the Murray
River, striking through the newly-settled
Crammerton country. After winding in and
out along the bush track, we came suddenly
upon a small saltbush plain, at the edge
of which, seated in a circle under a clump
of shady pines, were many settlers, male
and female, with the patriarch squatting in
the centre, an open book on his knees. Think-
ing that Divine service was being held. I
stopped the engine to let my imagination
run free, comparing this scene with what
might have been in the days of my Cov-
enanting forefathers in the glens of Scotland;
then distinctly came the words across the
heat-laden atmosphere: “Ladies and gentle-
men, you have heard the motion. I’ll thank
somebody,” etc., etc. It w r as a meeting of
the Crammerton branch of the Better Farm-
ing Association, and they had met in true
community spirit to help each other solve
their problems.
HINTS FOR THE FARM.
“Waimea”: To-day a man who wants to
clear green timber need have no fear, of
the old bugbear of suckering after ring-
barking. When his trees have been rung,
all he has to do is to paint the cut with one
of the mixtures for poisoning prickly-pear.
The butt will die down right away to the
nethermost roots and will burn clean under
the ground. So is the killing of the timber
made certain and the subsequent clearing
quicker, cheaper and more effective.
“Saaedi”: A fellow told me recently that
dingoes will not attack -a mob of sheep, if
there are several Angora goats running
amongst the jumbucks. It sounds like a
furphy to me, but this chap swore that he
knew a case of a grazier who was greatly
troubled by dingoes until he bought a mob
of Angoras and distributed them through-
out the paddocks. After that, my informant
declared, the dingoes’ depredations decreased,
and finally ceased altogether. Anything in
it?
“Sassafras” : Miles of our great blacksoil
plains are treeless. Most of these soils
undergo considerable shrinkage during the
dry season; hence the cracks so often seen
in' them in summer. The young tree’s
roots are not strong enough to stand the
strain of this contraction and are burst
asunder, with fatal results to the tree. At
Longernong College of Agriculture (Yic.)
they have succeeded in cultivating several
fine avenues by specially preparing the soil
to give young gums a start.
“H.M.”: There would be less grumbling
among those who rear fowls for profit if
there was at least 20 per cent, milk in the
daily feed. Every farmer who has milk to
spare should pass it to the fowlyard. The
fowls will be healthier on the ration. If
both meat and milk are obtainable, the
best method is to scald the meat with milk
before giving it to the flock. Since this
treatment is flesh-forming, scratching pens
must be provided, or the poultry will become
sluggish. Old litter—-straw or leaves —in
which a little grain is thrown every day and
well raked over, is ideal to make the birds
“work” off superfluous fat; but at all times
the pens must be kept thoroughly dry.
“Sucre” : I had a lemon-tree at Warwick
(S.Q.) that refused to have children. A
neighbor four miles away said a male tree
was needed, but as I didn’t know one sex
in trees from another I resigned myself
to its infertility. One day I bored a hole
in its trunk to support the family clothes-
line. Before I could insert the iron spike
a red-backed spider pushed his way into the
tunnel. Getting some sulphur, I blew it
into the “flat” and evicted the tenant. Two
months later the lemon-tree that had been
barren for four years bore a fine crop of
fruit.
“Spadger”: I’m with “Jacky Roo” (B.
21/5/’27) when he says that iron posts and
droppers do not make a successful fence. But
he is off the track of the perfect fence when
he recommends concrete posts. They may
withstand a charge of elephants—they don’t
often charge in this country, anyway—but
the rubbing of a simple sheep often causes
them to snap off at the base.
“R.H.McE.”: Tell “G.8.L.” that on the
Tweed River he will find acres and acres of
his scarlet-flowered kurrajong; also blue and
black kurrajong, with auother small-leafed
species which throws off a thin dust that will
send him away sneezing for a fortnight.


//fyy
•>> x s •
m
m
w %
'Z
//
''.f.ff:'
y*f\
•** /W'V > / /
# s -Is t\ > V
4 * \ ' * ;
g * ' - V W//4 s -
4>,
vV'.vSS
'si
iv.'.y
//'//
W/Xnn
iSSys
'll
If
z
fff
MM»
m
.>ssxc:v\
:::;«wK :::
SaSS
,\\\W« W '
«• s *4
• •*"}!
-vssS
JK'iTi-*
m£
S*
*■;tit
■,v;,
s*
wrw*
v.
**
M
sS»
?***.-•*’
dR
«?»
*3»
■ftf
lirtw
harry J nwsstoh
And the teamsters out on the Castlereagh when they meet
with a week of rain,
And the waggon sinks to the axle-tree, deep down in the
black-soil plain,
When the off-side driver flays the team, and curses them
while he flogs,
And the air is thick with the language used, and the
clamor of men and dogs.
—“BANJO” PATERSON.
But now no laboring oxen strain knee-deep in the black -
soil mire —
For a week of rain is nothing at all to a chain-encircled
tyre.
And the ghost of an old-time teamster peers, silent and
thunderstruck,
At the great load gliding steadily on in a conquering
REO truck .
—B. A.
Reo Mi
171-175 Willi*
Canada Motor <
Creek and Adela:


WM/z.
/ *
vx*
OLO
- S Ss /
///
’///
7/ / ///////UVy
wm
/ /
///////s'
/////////*
ft
f// If/i
•v
ZL
(/A
y///A
Vs
Z
Wa
vt,
A 3 2 £
7/
//
ism
<r>
ft
//
///Z'ZZ///7
//Z/ZZZ/ZfZ
///.
i /
/ /
Zz/ymfZZfZZ
WML
'fsiffi,
ii'Wz
*****
%
%
r.
’i'ZZ^lMh
V, 7,
V %
y
v i
m /
•s, Vi
k
V/ «
V
VSa
?S
i^3
• vf-
•iiMn &&
WsSKsSfe.
n
mz& t ’--i
‘s*»*
Svb'K
\ r ' jhKT
sM
&&■£>&, r’riS
, •; 4. ,
Wzr^zSzM
Sfctf • ..yftOVV .
Hi
J.SV
IW/
ij
?>•
52 fw * •
vsr***
a
g
> to*:
li§iSS&
vjs
3 a:
//■,
&&kmlAt
W'*. :
I - 9
V
••■ -^>2
'* »z~
A
?Z\;*z%L r , tif
/V/ ..'■'\
ofinSL;-?
S£*3
<*'-.. >r*.v
[V^v.,;; 1 :
isn.>
.-ssfifewi
>*•
X-:- -a
W!:l
b=^SfJ®S*S^jgfi^®S^sa3K
* 'iiAisrE
v:'.^
,r; :*
mg
■\ZiZZZ
z*£>T9\t
m
wmgm
WaM
...i .JBS<
»<fcS
;
» a
SEP
r??*
AGENTS:
'Ltd.,
k Sydney.
[ ?cle Co., Ltd.,
ee ts, Brisbane.
Queensbridge Motors Pty., Ltd.,
Queensbridge Square, Melbourne.
Reo Motor Sales, Ltd.,
Franklin Street, Adelaide.


<»
T
io
tor
9°
Army Club
CIGARETTES
20
for
1/6
In pure ribbed watermarked rice papes\
CAVANDERS Ltd., London (Est. 1775), Pioneers of Hygienic Cigarette Packing.
&
CORK-TIPPED
or PLAIN
SMOKE-OH!
When a man visits his old friend on a
cold night he doesn’t like his reception to be
merely cordial.
* *
Nature Note: “The stork is a very timid
and non-aggressive bird.” Yes, we’ve noticed
that it’s always dropping its bundle.
“I have never met a good cricketer who
was conceited,” says “Plum” Warner. But
that’s too sweeping altogether. On a wet
wicket the best of them are liable to be
stuck up.
* *
“Bex” : As they sat near me in the tram
I could not help overhearing their conver-
sation. “Does yer missus ever chuck up to
yer wot a good bloke ’er first ’usband was?”
said the one next to me. “No ’ope!”
answered the other, “I made it me business
to get th’ full strength of ’im before I took
’or on.”
To the politician nothing succeeds like
recess.
The unluckiest punter can bet upon' his
wife’s nag.
The bookie is never wider awake than when
he is nodding.
Money talks all languages, but mostly
with a broken accent.
* *
THE EVERGREEN.
A woman’s “as old as she looks”?
Judged by her skirt and cropped tresses,
Her plentiful powder and rouge,
She hopes she’s as young as she dresses.
s.A. Bill O’C.
Pola Negri, the film star, is to marry a
Russian prince named Serge. Bet it’s pro-
bably the lining that, counts.
A Sydney paper asserts that you can tell
whether the diamonds in a ring are genuine
or not by tapping them on the teeth,
“tasting” them or placing them in water.
There is a simpler way than any of these;
is is infallible, too. Try to pawn them.
“D.McM.”: Anyway, what’s your candid
opinion about the country round here ? I
asked the oldest inhabitant, who knew I was
looking for land. “Well, I’ll tell yer straight
he replied. “She’s good in parts an she s
bad in parts. But t' tell y’ th’ gorstruth,
it’s no good a poor man takin’ it on unless
lie’s got plenty o’ money!”
“M.G.”: He was a
skinny wisp of a man,
five-feet nothing and
seven stone weight,
with a cigarette swag,
and looking as if a
whirlwind had dropped
him at the pub door.
He came in as Tony,
the giant Italian, was
telling how he carried
the bull up the ladder:
“I put ze strap round
hees feedbag and carry
heem up zo high,” in-
dicating the bar-coun-
ter. Then the little
man butted in. “Had
a narrer ’scape from a
bull meself once,” he
said. “Wuz goin’ up
the river kerryin’ me
swag when a big bull
charges me. I grabs
him by the horns and
holds him fer an hour.
I wuz wonderin’ how
much longer he’d hang
out -when I getser
brain wave. Stickin’
me heels in ther soil I
drags me noble into
ther river and drowns
ther cow.”
* ❖
Bobby was seeing the new baby for the
first time, and was not favorably impressed.
“Wasn’t the Stork good for bringing you a
little brother to play with,” said his mother.
"I s'pose so,” answered Bobby; “but I wish
he'd had the sense to bring one of my own
age.”
* *
Invited spectators at Canberra ceremonies
were fired with enthusiasm. So were the
hotel boarders.
$ ❖
Failure in curing boozing habits is invited
by attempts to break away too suddenly
from what has become a natural food. Try
this method. Decide first, of all never to have
a drink before breakfast; then resolve never
to have breakfast except after an early-
morning surf; after that decide not to surf
unless you have retired before nine o’clock
the night before; then never retire before
nine o’clock. In this way you reach the happy
conclusion without any sudden jolt.
EASY!
“Interviewed by press people as soon as he set
foot in England, the Queensland Premier asked ‘What
makes you think I come here for money ?’ ”
“But what makes you think I come here for
a loan?”
Asked Mr. McCormack, in innocent tone.
“I’m seeing the country, good sirs, on my
own —
Don’t suggest I’m a cadging relation.”
The man with the notebook and pencil said
“Rats!
You come from Australia, don’t you? Well,
that's
How your errand we guess—for we're not
blind as bats:
It’s a kind of L S Divination.
VICTORIA. EaRDTJEY TURNER.
A man who invented a trap for catching
suburban trains would make a fortune.
A Sydney jeweller declared the other day
that changes in jewellery fashions cause a lot of
trouble in the trade; but, he added cheerfully,
there is always a certain amount of regular
custom —engagement and wedding rings, for
instance. Yes, of course —in the making of
rings there is no end.
* *
“You blokes can get rid o’ the idea that
I useter to feel lonely doin’ so much fishin'
on me Pat Malone,” said old Dan. “Not a
bit of it. As long as I had ole Spotty with
me 1 was set. Spotty was me ole dog, and
the best cobber ever I ’ad. After me two ole
mates ’ad put in their tickets, I never felt
like startin’ all over again, although, mind
yer, I’ve gone out with parties to do ’em a
favor; but after I’d got a few whacks aside
the snout from some of ’em when they were
firin’ their lines out, an duckin’ me napper
from others that ’ad sinkers big enough to
kellick a boat, I give it up and introduced
Spotty to the game. The way ’e cottoned to
it was marvcll’us. ’E ’adn’t been at the
game any time before ’e knoo as well as I
did wot sort of a fish I ’ad on, an’ we used
tor ’ave some great argyments. If ’e barked
once it was a bream, twice a flat’ead, three
times a jewie; but if I ’appened to ’ook a
cattie ’e would stand there lookin’ over the
side an’ do nothin’ but growl ’is ’cad orf.
I’ll never forget one day up at the liip. I’d
’ooked a fair-sized brGam, an’ soon’s old
Spottie seen me start to play ’im 'c gives
one bark. ‘Righto,’ sez I to meself, ‘but I’ll
trick yer,’ and I gives the fish ’is ’ead a bit.
Spottie ’as another look, an’ then gives two
barks. After a bit ’e does the same again—■
one, then another two —until I could see I
’as ’im fair puzzled; an’ then I starts to
’aul in proper. Ole Spotty ’as the landin’
net ready to pass over to me, an’ soon I
gets the shock o’ me life. I’d ’ooked a bream
all right, but while I was foolin’ about with
’im a big flattie ’ad made a grab ter try
MOST INOPPORTUNE.
“And, darling, while you are asking dad I'll
amuse myself playing over all the jazz
things I know .”
“Heavens, Edith, don’t do that! You know
he can’t keep his feet still when he hears
a one-step.”
and swaller ’im, got ’im ’alf-way down ’is
throat, an’ was ’ooked dead to rights on the
bream’s fins, an’ I landed the double, and
(Id Spotty knoo it. If that ain't sergacity,
then tell me.”
Wives of bookmakers remind us,
Clad in furs and jewels sublime,
Of the dough we left behind us
In our hectic racing time.
VICTORIA. GaNESHA.
The whole philosophy of booze —One’s
enough; two's too many; three’s not half
enough.
Although made one at marriage, many
married couples are sixes and sevens ever
afterwards.
❖ *
A weekly lately reported that hair grows
two inches in a month. On reading it Ran-
dolph Bedford wrote asking what month.
HIS JOB.
THE DINER: "Hey, look 'err; there's a flit
in this soup!”
THE WAITRESS: “Well, catch it yerself.
Spiders is off.”
“The Welkin”: All was peace and quiet-
ness until Dad, who was reading the paper,
burst forth with: “Well, I'll be hanged.
What d’yer think of this!” Mum looked up
from her knitting. Dave ceased reading his
book on “How to Play the Mandolin.” while
Clioom paused in his letter-writing. Dad.
observing that all were interested, continued:
“It sez ’ere that a ’undred thousand seals
wuz employed larst year ter make ladies'
coats.” “Good gracious,” said Mum. “What-
ever will they be doin’ next! I don’t believe
in trainin’ poor dumb animals to do such
things. I s’pose in time to come they'll
teach cow T s to milk themselves.” This woke
up Choom. But he shook his head. “Stoo
goo’ to be true,” he said sadly.
* *
REAL-LIFE DRAMA.
These tragedies of city life—
The husband and the jealous wife,
The murder of a flighty miss,
The pistol and the Judas kiss—
Why all this trouble and this strife
When you should just remember this:
There’s always loads and loads of girls
To choose from; there are roads of girls
And samples of all modes of girls!
There is no need for tragedies—
• 11 hy can't you pick on one of these?
Why be a nasty-tempered brute?
Switch off the girl who doesn’t suit!
Why should you ’neatli her anger smart
When you from your fiancee part?
What need is there for you to shoot?
.lust pick another brand of tart!
In Sydney there are miles of girls.
The place is full of smiles of girls:
You’ll find all sorts.and styles of girls.
Upon you they are quick to freeze —
Why don’t you pick on one of these?
Don’t be a nasty, jealous nark.
Say “Good-bye!” nicely in the park;
And if you’ll only look around
A nicer girl will soon be found.
1 )on’t kill her! Kiss her in the dark;
Just leave her, but not underground!
HATHRU.
I'pon the street are knots of girls;
At corners there are clots of girls;
For Sydney’s full of lots of girls.
And they are always quick to please —
Why can’t you pick on one of these?
So don’t be hasty, dear old chap.
(’ount ;ten before you leap the Gap ;
Don’t fool about with dynamite—
You very sejdom get it right.
Why wipe yourself * right off the map?
You’ll make yourself a nasty ‘sight!
We follow in the tracks of girls,
For Sydney never lacks of girls;
< lood Dord, there’s always stacks of girls,
And very cheap are marriage fees —
Why can’t you pick on one of these?
N.s.w.
ARTHUR H. ADAMS.
EXPERIENCED.
“Wanted, waitress for Central Railway. Must be
experienced.”
When you can juggle stacks of soup, all
hot,
Past plunging elbows that would wreck the
lot;
When you can smile and face the hungry
gla re
Of busy men who have no time to spare ;
When you can meet reproach with smiling
ease
From those you’ve handed fruit instead of
cheese;
When you can steel your heart against the
plea
Of spinsters who are “dying for their tea" :
When you can make the patient bald-head
wait.
To serve the youth who always comes in late;
And gaze, unmoved, upon the bitter grief
Whom “fish is orf,” and all that’s "on" is
beef;
When you can serve a hundred plates o' meat
And still retain a faint desire to oat—
When you can do all this, you need not fear:
You’ll be a railway waitress yet, my dear.
N.B.W.
CRIPPS CLARK.
DAD’S WEEK-END.
On Saturday a cheery soul
Is Dad; he scoffs his dinner,
Brushes his boots
And off he scoots —
He’s sure lie’s picked a winner!
We see no more of Dad that night.
He telephones from town: “I quite
Forgot to mention I’d he 1ate.”....
How badly you prevaricate.
Dear Dad. you licensed sinner!
We know you’ll say you've “work to do."
Your fables well-worn paths pursue.
Dear week-end Ananias, you
Are full of such excuses!
Dad sinks a pot, is blithe and gay,
Says life’s “goodo”—on Saturday!
On Sunday Dad’s a martinet.
He keeps us youngsters weeding
Until it's time
By bell and chime
To dress for church. “I’m needing
A little rest,” says solemn Dad —
“I’ll stay at home, my gout is bad.”
O specious parent, are we had?
We know your old excuses!
On Fortune’s wheel in turn w T e’re bound,
Fate laughs to see the wheel spin round;
And liberty must yield its price—
On Monday Dad’s a sacrifice!
Yes. Nemesis on Monday comes;
And Dad, dear old lead-swinger.
Whose whim was law
Two days before,
Finds Monday’s task a stinger!
Not Machiavelli could contrive
To save Dad then. The clock strikes five,
And Mum calls : “Hey, Dad, look alive.
Get up, and turn the wringer!”
Says Dad on Monday: “Life’s a cow."
And grunts, and wipes a sweaty brow.
S.A.
M. R. C.


o
M
2V
V
r - 1
a
l A)
Big—Roomy—Comfortable
People are accustomed to think of
Dodge Brothers Motor Car in terms
of dependability and value. For that
reason its really exceptional size is not
always fully appreciated.
Yet in this respect it stands alone in
its price class, far above its field.
With a 1 16-inch wheelbase, ample
leg room and seats of exceptional
width and depth, the car is big enough
and roomy enough for thorough com-
fort. Yet it is compact enough for
convenient parking.
Standard Touring £299
Coupe £395
Sedan £4lo'
Five Disc Wheels and Balloon Tyres.
Canada Cycle & Motor Co. (Victoria) Pty., Ltd., Melbourne.
Austral Motors, Limited, Brisbane—Townsville.
The Standardised Motors, Ltd., Sydney.
Waymouth Motor Co., Ltd., Adelaide.
Winterbottom Motor Co., Ltd., Perth,
Dodge- Brothers
MOTOR CARS
19/5/'27


SOCIAL PROBLEMS
0
c
&
> 0
/v
L/»
s
>N>
■
fc-
cS^
,s
{ %J-T%i. C :X
\ orf (, f\
R
L.
Kt (
v;
r
If
V\
A, having telephoned to the Bromide Browns but half an hour
ago, deeply regretting that he is after all unable to dine and
theatre with them owing to a severe attack of scarlet fever,
finds himself in the adjacent box to them, at the same moment
that they find him.
What should A do?
• • • • • « • • »
The correct answer is, of course —
LIGHT AN ABDULLA.
Fougasse .
(\bdullA SUPERB CIGARETTES
TURKISH EGYPTIAN VIRGINIA


u
THE WOMAN’S MIRROR
ff
Contains everything that women should know, from kitchen to
drawing-room, from the cradle to old age.
FREE PATTERN EVERY WEEK.
It is the most remarkable Threepennyworth ever printed.
“THE WOMAN’S MIRROR.’
PUBLISHED EVERY TUESDAY,
Price
3d
VICHY
iIMLH
VICHY WATER
“CELESTINS”
Owned and Guaranteed Genuine by
French Government.
Taken regularly, will ensure perfect action
of Liver and Kidneys, which means more
enjoyment out of life and greater efficiency
in business and sport.
Imitations being on the market,
Do Not Be Misled—lnsist on Celestins.
Obtainable Everywhere.
Sole Australian Agent:
M. PELLETIER, 16 Bridge Street, Sydney.
The Aristocrat.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
YOUR EXCELLENCY,” said Air. Wil-
liam Porterman, addressing Captain
William Bligh, R.N., “if I may ven-
ture to express an opinion—that is to say,
promulgate a theory—it would be most
expedient and politic—that is to say, politi-
cally expedient—to inculcate amongst the
lower orders in the colony a veneration and
respect for those who have been placed by
the Almighty in a position superior to their
own. Judicious. Prudent. That is to say,
prudently judicious—or judiciously prudent.
Your Excellency follows me? Your Excel-
lency apprehends the trend of my argu-
ment ?”
The Governor stared at his visitor with
an ominous glare in liis blue eyes and a
slight reddening of the face. A pleasant,
mild face it was—totally misleading as to
the pleasantness and mildness of disposition
of its owner. Had the pompous, stout gentle-
man seated opposite to him on the other side
of the writing-table been a person of discern-
ment, he might have observed some signs of
the coming storm. It is regrettable that he
was not a person of discernment. Where-
fore he went on, in his solemn fashion, to
point out to the newly-arrived potentate the
policy that should be his. So the storm
brewed.
Air. Porterman had arrived in New South
Wales, as a free settler, half-way through
the administration of Governor King, with
letters of introduction from the Secretary
of State for the Colonies and Air. AVilliam
Wilberforce, who has been called the Eman-
cipator. Also, he had £oooo and an ambi-
tion to become a pioneer and one of the
first of the landed gentry of the new pro-
vince.
So Captain King gave him a grant on the
Hawkesbury, near the Green Hills —which
locality General Alacquarie subsequently mis-
named Windsor —cattle from the Govern-
ment herd, and a large amount of convict
labor to develop his holding. Strangely
enough, he developed it exceedingly well —-
mainly, it is probable, because his wife was
as capable as he was foolish. In 1806 he
had become a prosperous colonist, as pros-
perity counted then, and a man of substance,
both financially and physically. And he
was, too, by a great degree, the most insuf-
ferable bore with which Australia had as
yet been inflicted.
“Yes, my dear Captain Bligli,” he went
on, “the common people here are not so
respectful in their demeanour toward their
betters as they should be. That is to say,
they are inclined to a spirit of irreverence.
Few, for instance, save my own servants,
touch their hats to me. They should know
better. They should be taught better. Society
cannot be maintained in its integrity with-
out that respect for Position which Position
is entitled to. I have frequently to complain
of this neglect of the proper observance
of form. Reprehensibly deplorable, your
Excellency— and deplorably reprehensible.
Does your Excellency take snuff?”
He produced a large and ornate silver
box from the tail of liis coat, and proffered
it to the Governor. Then the storm broke.
The Governor’s words cannot wholly be
recorded here, but the blanks may be taken
as representing the very best, or the very
worst, of the linguistic accomplishments of
the Royal Navy of the period. The navy
can swear now, but it cannot swear as it
swore in Bligh’s day. And few of his con-
temporaries, on either the lower-deck or the
quarter-deck, could equal him. And the man-
ner of his delivery equalled the matter which
lie delivered.
“God and your filthy snuff, sir!
Alay I be and ! D —n your
infernal impudence! And who, pray, are
you—you pot-bellied, goggle-eyed ?
AA’ho the Hell are you, sir, that they
should take their , hats off to you?
Answer me that, ye lubber. Answer
me that. Damme, ye’d dictate to me, would
ye? To Hell with you, sir! Get out of
this, ye!”
It was a startled, astonished and indignant
AVilliam Porterman who hurried past the
guard-room a bare minute after this out-
burst. On the verandah of Government
House the Oaptain-General and Governor-
in-Chief in and over His Alajesty’s Terri-
tory of New South AVales stood hurling
curses after him so long as his portly and
agitated personality remained in view. AA r ith
great difficulty the sentry standing outsub
his box at the end of the carriage-drive
refrained from presenting his musket, in
salute, to one who could so thoroughly evoke
the best that the Governor had in him.
“Blime!” he remarked to the corporal of
the guard when he was relieved, “that there
fat fellie must ha’ give our Billy summat to
go on wi’! Tole ’im horf proper, I’ll go
bail. A good man, that! One o’ the
quality.”
But when the New South AVales Corps
got to know their Commander-in-Chief bet-
ter they were to learn that he could be as
rough with his tongue to the minnows as
to the tritons. He made no difference with
any one. His objurgations were freely dis-
tributed to both great and small. He was
entirely impartial.
"I shall not, of course, my dear,” observed
Air. Porterman to his wife, when reporting
this lamentable occurrence, “make any par-
ticular complaint of the fellow to the Home
Government. He is, after all, the repre-
sentative of the King. And, to the right-
thinking, the King can do no wrong. But
I shall not countenance him socially. I shall
not honor his board with my presence. I
shall not visit Government House. No;
upon that point my mind is made up. He
has brought it upon himself.”
“Perhaps, Willie,” remarked the lady,
gently, “perhaps he will not ask you.”
The two stormy years of Bligh’s adminis-
tration came suddenly to an end on the even-
ing of January 20, 1808. Into the pictur-
esque events of that remarkable summer
night one hundred and seventeen years ago
1 do not propose to enter here. All that we
are concerned with is the peculiarly distress-
ing misadventure that befel Air. Porterman,
as a sequel to it, when lie visited Sydney
exactly one xveek later, in order to learn
for himself the political situation.
To him, as a loyal subject of King George
the Third —one who observed with decorous
festival each birthday in the Royal family—
the rebellion plotted and consummated by
the officers of the New South AYales Corps
under the wily tutelage of Air. John Mac
arthur, when the news of it came to the
Hawkesbury, had appeared a very shocking
affair indeed. The Governor, personally,
was to him the embodiment of all that was
detestable. Officially, he was as sacred as
the British Constitution, the Established
Church, the House of Lords and the import-
ance of Air. William Porterman, of AYilber-
force Hall, on Sackville Reach, aiid The
Alansion in Essex-street, Sydney. Nothing
could extenuate the forcible overthrow of
the representative of the Lord’s Anointed.
Nothing whatsoever. He was thoroughly out
of sympathy with the Provisional Govern-
ment.
Many of the settlers in the backbloeks
of New South Wales —which were not more
than 40 mi’les distant from the coast in those
days—were in sympathy with the deposed
Governor. He had been rough and profane,
hut he had also been just and honest in
his dealings with them. Always had he seen
tc it, or tried to see to it. that they were
protected against the predatory exploitation
of the class which had risen against him-
self —as much for the reason that they
objected to interference with their plunder-
ing monopolies as for any other. It is worth
remembering the names of the fourteen free
settlers —many of them those which in the
next hundred years were to stand for all that
is finest in Australian pioneering—who
signed the petition, dated: February IY,
1809, to Lord Castlereagh, in which the
following paragraph occurs: —“That they do
abhor and detest the said act, its aidors and
abettors, and were every way fully satisfied
and content under Ilis Excellency’s (Gov-
ernor Bligh’s) administration. Ilis Excel-
lency was doing all that public virtue or
private worth could accomplish to correct
abuses, re-establish discipline, protect and
encourage sobriety and industry.” They
were John Howe, John Johnstone, Andrew
Johnston, James Alein, James Davison, Caleb
Wilson, Charles Griffiths, John Turnbull,
Ralph Turnbull, William Bowman, John
Bowman, Thomas Arndell, Robert Alartin
and Richard Rouse.
AVhy the name of Air. William Porterman
does not appear in the above list may only
be conjectured. But it is not unlikely that
it was because the lord of Wilberforce Hall
was no more popular with his fellow free
settlers than he was with the Governor
or with the lower classes of the colony’s
inhabitants.
About noon on February 1, followed at
a respectful distance by a groom in livery,
Air. Porterman rode over the crest of Brick-
field Hill, and entered the capital of the
Australias. Here he was halted by a guard,
none of the members of which treated him
with any respect or deference.
“AVhat d’ye mean, sir?” he demanded
angrily of the sergeant. “How dare you inter-
fere with me. sir? On the King’s highway.
D'ye know who I am, sir?”
“No, but I dam’ soon will. Get orf that
’orse, an’ give an account o’ y’self, blast
ye l”
Failing to comply with this request, Mr.
Porterman was roughly dragged from the
saddle —to the great enjoyment of his groom
—and put to the question.
Was he from the Hawkesbury? Had he
a pass signed by Captain Abbott at Parra-
matta. or by any other officer*of the Corps?
AA T hat had he come to. Sydney for?
Before his indignation permitted him to
reply to any of these impudent enquiries,
they were suddenly and vehemently inter-
rupted by Private Jacques Ducros.
This Private Ducros was a Frenchman who
had participated in the Terror, and served
in the Revolutionary army, from which he
had been taken, as a prisoner of war, by the
British forces. He had been transported to
New South Wales for some small disciplinary
offence, and had been permitted after a period
of servitude to enlist in the N.S.W. Corps.
The overthrow of the representative of
another King had afforded him the liveliest
satisfaction, tempered with regret that the
Governor’s head had been permitted to
remain upon his shoulders, and that all his
adherents had not been put to death under
the summary jurisdiction of a new Revolu-
tionary Tribunal, with some Fouquier Tin-
viHe—himself, par example —as its presiding
genius.
Ilis fierce moustachios bristling with rage
against this pig of an aristocrat, he now
took a hand in the proceedings.
“Citoycn sargent /” he shouted. “But a
moment. Ecoutez, mon brave camarade, s’il
vous plait. I vill tell you of zis scelerat d'un
aristocrat. Oh. yes, 1 know ’im. Moi qui
parle —Jacques Ducros —I ’ave work for ’im,
comme un for cat. ’E is a goddam pig—a
tyrant. ’E kites nos officicrs. ’E love zis
goddam Bil-lee Bligli. A la lantcrne! -But
if not zat —to ze court of le Capitaine Kemp.
I will spik contre cc pros cochin —zis fellow.
All about ’im. To ze Coal River —if not to ze
gallow —le brave capitaine vill send 'im.
Hacre bleu, fil d'un chicn —you ’ave ’ad me
flogged, moi, Jacques Ducros! Ah. it is my
tur-rn, maintenant! En arant, camaradcs -
a M. Ic Capitaine Kemp."
So eloquent and convincing was Private
Ducros as to the infamies of Mr. Porter man,
his ill disposition to the present Govern-
ment, and liis great devotion to the vile and
too-leniently-treated Captain Bligli. that the
sergeant dispatched him forthwith to the court
which was sitting in Sydney to deal with such
contumacious cases as his. To Private Ducros
lie accorded permission to accompany the
escort of a corporal and a file of soldiers, as
a potential witness against this dangerous
character. The groom, also, volunteering to
speak against his master, was refreshed with
rum, clapped upon the back for a true
Briton, and sent into town.
The trial of Air. Portermaii did not take
long. What the groom and the French soldier
had not heard him utter expressive of undying
personal devotion, to Governor Bligh, and in
blasphemous execration of Air. Alacacthur
and the officers of the Corps, is not worth
mentioning. On the following day he sailed
in the Government schooner for the Coal
River settlement, which was considered by
the court to be an excellent place of, banish
meat for such troublesome fellows—-and,
incidentally, for such insufferable bores - -as
Air. AVilliam Porterman.
There still exists a long and indignant
letter written by the unfortunate gentleman
from Newcastle, which is addressed to his
wife. The following extract well testifies to
his state of mind regarding the ironical fate
which had overtaken him: —
.... this degradation and humiliation. ’Tis, my
dearest Eliza, a source of perpetual Worry and
Distress to me to think that these Rebells should have
exiled me to this settlement of Fellons principally
for the reason that I was said to be on terms of
Great Intimacy -with Captn. Bligh. Never was there
vulgar Fellow whom 1 have more detested in the
whole course of my Existence. Only yesterday, the
new arriv’d Commandant, that blackguard Lawson,
thought fit to say to Ale with a Sneer, “Don’t you
wish you had your friend Breadfruit Billy to toady
to here?” Insufferable. I have been here nigh twelve
Months now, and every day hath been more dis-
tressing than its predecessor. With the exception
of Sir H. B. Hayes, there is no one of Position
with whom I can associate. And I can never escape
the thought that he is a Convict. Was ever gentle-
manly person thrust into a more Ignoble situation!
1 sometimes fear I shall not survive it.
J. H. M. ABBOTT.
Dinner for Two.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
SUSANNAH smiled as she stood on her
balcony that Christmas morning. She
could see the uneven roofs of the hospital
buildings; and beyond them she looked down
on a mass of dark fig-trees that stretched
away to the Art Gallery. The smile began
by being half-cynical and half-tender and
ended altogether softly and tremulously. She
was a fool to be keeping the Anniversary!
A sentimental cow-woman ! There had been
many anniversaries since that other Christ-
mas, but this time she had felt in a way
compelled to remember, and to do something
to mark the day.
It was all rather strange. She had refused
many invitations from friends to spend
Christmas, not for any particular reason,
but because she wanted a few days of quiet
and absolute rest. It was only last night
when she was doing her shopping that the
idea of keeping Christmas with this old
ghost had come to her. She was buying
butter at a ham-and-beef shop and remem-
bered suddenly how Charlie and she had
shopped together that Christmas Eve.
“I will have a small fowl, too, please, and
half a pound of ham.” The words were
out of her mouth almost before she realised
them, certainly before her brain had formu-
lated any plan. So she went on. buying
just the same things that she and Charlie
had bought. “Are you doing much busi-
ness?” she asked. the., proprietor of the last
little shop she went to, and he answered,
“No, trade is very slack; people do not
buy as they used to”—just as the man to
whom Charlie had asked the same question
had replied.
She carried her purchases home to the
flat that looked over the Domain, and went
to bed without thinking particularly of what
she had done. Her mind was rather a
blank, but next morning, after her solitary
breakfast, she remembered vividly, and
smiled. Why had she been so sentimental?
And what was the use of continuing the
farce? If she followed last night’s impulse
to its logical conclusion she would set the
table for two and visualise that other meal
that was eaten so many years ago. It would
he crass foolishness! She laid never tried
to remember Charlie, nor those days when
she believed lie loved her. She had tried
to forget, but something more than the mere
memory of them was always coming to her,
lie had flashed across her mental vision
so often, not in flat, suspended-motion photo-
graphic form, but living and breathing. She
had heard the tones of his voice, seen his
little familiar actions— I lie way lie filled a
pipe, tin l way he threw back his head when
lie laughed, the expression of the back of
his neck! These glimpses came at any and
all times. There was no leading up to them
of thought or conditions. Why, now, delib-
erately rake over those dead ashes? It would
hurt her and do no good. She had been
too ill-used to find sweetness in the memory
of happiness. Still, she was used to being
hurt, and it wouldn’t do any harm. Well,
let her do it thoroughly, hypnotise herself
into the belief that Charlie would be there
to eat his Christmas dinner with her!
She swept and dusted the flat, gave fresh
water to'the Christinas-bush Unit filled her
vases, and set the table —for two! There
was claret and dinner-ale to drink, and
Charlie could have whisky and soda. ••I'll
just taste yours, dear, so that you won’t
he the only one smelling of spirituous and
fermented liquors,” she whispered. They
must have black coffee too, and Turkish cigar-
ettes. They had always agreed that one was
the complement of the other, and both only
to he indulged in after a good dinner when
one was happy and the vest of the world
went by. "It's all ready now. dear; shall
we begin? You must carve, because it is
our first Christmas dinner alone together.”
It had been their last. too. She had
thought—some very foolish thoughts—but
Charlie had thought otherwise. She stopped
»make-believing for a moment, and wondered
what had become of him. She had never
heard, had never asked anyone who might
know. She knew he had married, and that
was all.
■•You’ve finished, dear? I shall light your
cigarette and we will take our coffee to the
balcony—we can't look at the sea as we did
last time, because we are not having a picnic
now. But you can see water from here and
the masts of ships.” She smoked her cigar-
ette down to the very end. and lit another
from it. a thing she had done about twice
in her life before. For two hours she sat
on the little balcony, not pretending, but
just thinking. Her face changed with her
thoughts and at last tears came to her eyes,
and she said aloud in a tremulous whisper:
“Charlie, my darling, I have loved you
always. I told you I would do that* but I
told you. too. that T would never fwrgive
you-—and that was a lie. Ido forgive you,
'iCharlie. and, please God, may you he strong
and well and very happy at this minute.”
She sat on till the sun disappeard, then
went in. and washed up, touching the unused
crockery gently as she put it away and say-
ing. “You've used it in spirit. Charlie dear.”
Next morning she looked over the paper
as usual at breakfast and the heading to
a small paragraph caught her eye: “Death
in the Domain.” She read on
A man was found dead under one of the Moreton
Bay figs in the Inner Domain late last evening.
Papers in his pocket identify him as Charles Foxton,
recently arrived from Melbourne. In his pocket-book
was found also a faded snapshot of a girl sitting
beside a picnic dinner near a beach. The photo is
signed “Susannah.” The body of the deceased was
in a very emaciated condition, and death was prob-
ably due to starvation.
R. E. T.
The Artificer.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Cod took the crimson of the west
That glorifies the sky,
The deep red of a robin’s breast,
A russet butterfly,
The green-gold of a parrot’s wing.
The brown of new-ploughed ground,
Pale gold of wattle bloom in Spring
That scents the air around.
God took the red-gold of the sun,
The amber-tinted sheaves;
He picked the colors one by one
And fashioned Autumn leaves.
Z. V. WEBB.
VICTORIA.


“Bulletin” Service Coupon
19151’27.
NAME AND ADDRESS
(for office use only)
Mr., Mrs. or Miss
Cut this out and send with your “Want” to ‘‘Service Department,
Bulletin office, Sydney, or Melbourne.
M A
NEWS
§
< 7sfie
•M exican’
Riding
Boofcx,
%
29/6 <P**r
Made to our own exclusive and
patented design (Reg. 5 59 8).
Has two-fold Ai-apped Tops—-
Buckles closely round ankles
fits any grass
seeds and sand getting into the
Boot. Black Calf-Black Wal-
laby~Tan Calf. All sizes. ‘Tostfree
PIKE BROTHERS
LIMITED
In Queen Street,
THE ROAD TO FORTUNE
is before you, not behind you—push on.
Believe in the good Road around the Corner—usually there
is one.
Life is a long road to travel, and it is as full of the unexpected
as any other. When you set out on a long road trip you provide,
as far as you can, for emergencies—for repairs to your car, but
most of all you provide plenty of petrol—of power.
Use the same good sense in your other daily doings that you
have to use to go ahead in a car. You will need to provide the
power on the road to fortune.
A Bank account is the power. If you have no Bank Account
start one NOW
Commonwealth lank of Australia
(Guaranteed by the Commonwealth Government.)
•PS
Enjoy Life.
Feel fit in the evening in spite
of strenuous work all-day.
Take
sanatogen
The True Tonic Food.
Our Service Department
This page is set apart for the service of Bulletin readers.
If you want anything, including information, you are invited to write to the
Service Department.
The service is entirely free. All you have to do is to attach the coupon from the
last Bulletin to hand.
Readers obliging with replies need not attach coupons.
The right of selection and rejection is reserved.
To facilitate search it is desirable that questions he asked on mily one subject at
a time.
Wants.
(Replies should be sent to the number
set against the “Want,” c/o Service
Department, BULLETIN.)
Complete Lone Hands for March-Nov.-
Dec., 1908; Jan.-Feb.-April, 1909; May,
1910. Will give 6d. each.—222.
First-class machine-driller and powder-
monkey wants qi.arrv work or mining; any-
where in N.S.W.; refs.; bar coal. —210.
AA r ork on a cattle-station, 18, strong and
healthy; been with cattle four years; any
State. —208.
Drapery manager wants position, country
store, any State; capable buyer for all de-
partments ; good business man, over 20 years
exp. country stores; knows all the English,
Continental and American manufacturers for
indenting; be prepared to invest in shares,
or take an interest in business if suitable. —
221.
Job in or close to Sydney, as bridge or
wharf carpenter; can do anv class heavy
work; been foreman for 10 years; used tidal
waters and swamps.—274.
Job on wheat farm; 21; three years’ exp.
; n station and farm. —273.
Job on small station. Can drive car,
look after windmills and machinery, useful
amongst sheep and handy with tools. Refs.
—271.
Inquiries from persons interested in com-
mercially developing a system for cure of
falling hair. —231.
A vet. who lost his books when he went
to the war wants Tuson’s ‘Wet. Pharma-
copoeia” and Clater’s “Every Man His Own
Horse and Cattle Doctor”; also Bennett’s
“Maritime Counties of Ireland.” —233.
To hear from a few other elderly women
with small means or 0.-a. pensions (not in-
valids) desirous of co-operating in making
small garden settlement for the enjoyment of
country surroundings.—26l.
Boundary-rider wants job central-west or
north-west of N.S.W., or to look after small
grazing property. Life exp.—266.
Electrical engineer, 25 years’ exp., 12
.1 ears’ own business, wants something good.
Consider position travelling rep. in expert
capacity. Own car. —259.
Opening in creative advertising. Not an
artist, but can plan and run sales cam-
paigns, write copy, analyse expenditure and
results, etc. 30. Keen and energetic,—24l.
To hear of some manufacturing business
that could be started in a small way on
£lOO and worked, at the start, in spare time.
—242.
AVhereabouts of H. Betheridge, shearers’
cook and opal prospector; last heard from
him at Quilpie (Q.). —254.
Position as jackeroo on good sheep-station.
Two years’ exp.—249.
■ Job, by returned man, with firm using
horses, to repair harness or saddlery.—24s.
Printer, willing worker, compositor and
platen-machine operator, or storeman ; any-
where ; 25 years’ exp.—2 Bo.
A comp. exp. accountant and auditor, who
did wrong and was punished, and has since
been very ill, wants someone to give him a
chance. Anything clerical; just over 40
years, temperate, married. Desperately in
need. —283.
Wanted, Lady’s Help, about 40, refined, for
middle-aged couple, no children ; comfortable
home, N.S.W. grazing property.—2BB.
Youth, 18, job as jackeroo; go anywhere.
—286.
Whereabouts of an old mate, “Nobby”
Clarke; left England on Orvieto, July, ’24.
Hails from Staffordshire.—2B4.
Freehold, very suitable peanut-growing,
50 miles Brisbane, joining railway-station;
one-fifth of crops as payment for land (£5
per acre) ; no crops no payment.—2B9.
Information Sought.
{!) Are recruits wanted for the Air
Force? {2) What, qualifications are neces-
sary for pilot? (3) To what address should
applications be sent? —264.
(1) There are a limited number of vacan-
cies for enlistment in the following trades: —
Fitter-drivers, motor-boat fitters, instrument
repairers, wireless operators and mechanics,
photographers, carpenters, turners, store-
keepers, tailor, fabric workers and clerks.
(2) A pamphlet is available giving informa-
tion as to qualifications of candidates and
methods of entry. (3) The Secretary, Air
Board, Victoria Barracks, Melbourne.
Has Jonathan Cape, the London pub-
lisher, a rep. in Sydney or Melbourne? —
267.
• George Hicks and Co., 279 Clarence-street,
Sydney.
What course should a 16-year-old Sydney
boy take to fit himself for an architect? —
269.
The lad should pass the Intermediate Cer-
tificate Examination and then become
articled. He should then enrol in the Diploma
Preparatory classes at the Sydney Technical
College, which will qualify him for admis-
sion to the Architectural Diploma Course.
Mr. Martin, acting-lecturer in charge of the
Department of Architecture of the College,
will advise a parent.
_ What properties in. Kinta Valley is Allu-
vial Tin prospecting and what, is the extent
of the area over which it has options? —247.
Malim Nawar (at head of Valley), Malim
Nawar South, Kuala Kampar, Tonjong Tua-
long, Changkat, Kampong Lanjut, and
Kramat. Only Malim Nawar South and
Malim Nawar are producing. Total area
of above holdings, 3567 acres.
Student of elocution would like to know of
ah amateur dramatic club requiring new
mem b ers. —253.
See societies mentioned in reply to No. 244.
Particulars and dale of death of Searle
the sculler. —240.
Harry Searle died at the Williamstown
Hospital (ATc.), on December 10. 1889, from
typhoid fever, contracted on the voyage home
from England, where he had gone to meet
O’Connor, the Canadian champion.
Flames and addresses of leading Repertory
societies in Sydney? Their directors? Sub-
scription fees? Do they afford members an
opportunity to act? Their next plays ? —
244.
(1) Sydney Repertory Society (Gregan
McMahon), 15 Bligh-street, Sydney. Sub.,
£3 3s. and £1 11s. 6d. p.a. Next play, Drink-
water’s “Mary Stuart.” (2) Playbox The-
atre (Duncan Macdougall). 11 Rowe-street,
Sydney. Sub., £1 Is. p.a. Next play, “Juno
and the Paycock.” (3) Players’ Club (Fran-
cis Jackson), 3 Rowe-street, Sydney. Sec.,
J. N. Shields, 195 Elizabeth-street, Sydney.
Sub., £2 2s. p.a. Next play, Galsworthy’s
“The Silver Box.” All three recruit their
actors from members.
Where can I get a copy of “The Life of
Harry Morant”? —257.
“Bushman and Buccaneer—Harry Mor-
ant, His Ventures and Verses.” by Frank
Itenai’, was published by H. T. Dunn and
Co., Sydney, in 1902, at Is. Now out of
print and seldom seen in second-hand shops.
A reader might have a copy.
To practise as an estate agent in N.S.W.
is it necessary to obtain a license? —-258.
No. Any inquiries can be addressed to
the Real Estate Institute of N.S.W., 15
Martin-place, Sydney.
Is there an Australian work similar to the
English “Writers and Artists' Year-book”
wherein I could find a list of Australian
and M.L. newspapers and their editorial re-
q uir.em en ts ? —246.
Not at present. Gordon and Gotch pub-
lish a list of papers with a general descrip-
tion of them. Cecil V. Ringstad, AVent-
worthville (N.S.W.), has been gathering
data for “The Australian and New Zealand
Writers and Artists’ Year-book,” which he
expects to publish this year.
The origin of the Queensland town-name
Mourilyan ? —156.
Named after Lieut. Mourilyan, of H.M.S.
Basilisk, commanded by Captain Moresby, in
the early ’seventies.
How is home-cured bacon smoked? Is it
always necessary to have a smoke-house? —-
263.
A man known to the Service Dept, smokes
his in the laundry chimney, stuffing the outlet
with bags and keeping the flames (from
straw) away from the bacon with sheets of
iron. But it is an unpleasant business, and
you can buy a bottle of Essence of Smoke
for Is., and it does the job well.
How much, with keep, is the award wage
for bush-work in N. 8. Wales ( fencing, ring-
barking, etc.)? —293.
If the employer is a respondent under
the Federal pastoral award and the em-
ployee a permanent station-hand, £4 2s. p.w.
without keep ; £2 14s. Bd. with keep. If the
employer is not a respondent under the
Federal award, £4 4s. without and £2 16s.
with. Under the State award for casual
work, 16s. per day with 30s. per week off
if the employee is kept.
Often of late I have been asked by people
who have come to me to be married if I
could tell them the tariffs charged by hotels
in Sydney, with and .without bathroom. Can
you furnish it for three or four good hotels
in the Harbor City? —No. 220.
Australia (including breakfast only) :
Single, from 14s. 6d. per day; with bath,
from 255. Double, from 275. 6d. p.d.; with
bath, from 335. Metropole (no meals) ;
Single, from 6s. 6d.; double, from 13s.
Usher’s (three meals) : Single, from 235. 6d.;
with bath, from 265.; double, from 475.;
with bath, from 525. Wentworth (three
meals) : Single, from 265.; double, from 525.,
or with bath, from 635. The Metropole’s
charge for breakfast is 2s. 6d.; when the
booking is less than three days the room-
charge is 6d. per guest extra; and when
meals are not taken at the hotel the room-
charge is Is. p.d. extra for each guest.
How do the Victorian Corporation Act
and Local Government Act differ? —279.
Main points are ;—(1) Election of Repre-
sentatives. —In the city of Melbourne, under
the former, three-quarters of representatives
are chosen by the electors and one-quarter
(the aldermen) by the councillors. (2)
The Franchise. —In municipalities governed
by Local Government Act, the occupier in
the case of occupied property is the person
entitled to be enrolled. In the others both
owner and occupier are enrolled. (3) Bor-
rowing Powers. —In the former the borrow-
ing powers are much greater than those
defined by the Local Government Act, and
the former is not obliged to invest sums
annually as a sinking fund in respect of
its loans. The greater part of the L. G.
Act has been made applicable to Melbourne
and Geelong, so that, generally speaking,
their administrative powers are similar to
those of other municipalities.
When a city wants a Lord Mayor, how is
the “honor” achieved? How many are there
in Australia? —276.
(1) Representations are made through the
Governor to the Secretary of State for the
Colonies and the claims of the city for such
honor are set out. (2) Sydney, Melbourne,
Adelaide.
Have parts of “The Picturesque Atlas of
Australia'’ any value? —27B.
Dymock’s tell us that separate parts have
no value, and that the entire set doesn’t
bring more than 20s.
Information Supplied.
26. —Vinegar well rubbed in a couple of
times will rid a horse of bot-eggs. Follow
this with a wash of common soap 'and very
warm water, with washing-soda dissolved in
it.—J.F.L.
144. —To get rid of white ants, try kero-
sene. It is sudden death to them. But the
only way to keep them out of a house is to
cut off their approach from the earth. They
must have contact with the ground to live.
If you trace down their tracks to where they
are mounting from the ground and thoroughl’y
drencli this spot with kerosene, the ant will
hunt for a new ladder. Keep after him.
Remember that the ants will only work in
the dark or semi-dark, so it is no good look-
ing out in the open for his ladder. Keep
the space under your floors free from timber
that will form a connection from floor to
earth.—Yufu.
120.—Try this for dressing canvas, duck,
oilskins, etc. Take ijlb. beeswax, |lb. resin,
1 quart boiled linseed oil, 1 pint Japan size.
Mix the beeswax, resin and oil and heat
until the former t-wo have thoroughly dis-
solved ; then add size and apply the mixture.
On uncoated material, three coats of the
mixture will give a glossy, waterproof cover-
ing ; on already coated surfaces, such as oil-
skins, etc., two, sometimes one, will suffice.
By adding a few drops of drop-black, or
liquid lamp-black, a glossy black finish is
given. Apply the liquid when it is hot—
as near to boiling as possible.—F.S.H.
Does Anybody Know?
The best way, apart from a bullet, to
stop a bull from going through, fences?—
260.
How can I make smoking-tobacco from
my own-grown plants? If the leaf has to
be sweated can it be done in a 10lb. lot?
Docs steaming answer the same purpose?—
238.
Where can I get a gramophone record of
a band-march “Twentieth Century,” com-
posed by Hume? —265.
Will someone with personal experience and
no stove to sell tell me how the running
cost of an electric stove large enough to
cook for four people compares with the
running cost of a gas stove of the same sice?
—229.
After using marking-ink and putting the
bottle away, I find the ink dry when I want
it again. Will anything restore it? —287.
How can 1 get rid of cockspurs? —29s.
Words of a verse describing the old blade-
shearing days with the refrain “I know it
all, my sonny, though I don't go shearing
now.” —292.
How would I apply washing-soda to the
roots of a mandarin-tree? —IS4.
Were the houses, the Seahorse Inn and
the church at Boyd Town, Twofold Bay.
ever occupied as Ben Boyd meant them to
be? If so, for how long? —No. 205.
Brief Answers.
R.H.M.: 61 W.L.8.: Has possibilities.
but hasn’t proved itself yet... . .J.P.S.: Yes.
but you may have to wait, and they may be
weaker before they are much stronger; (2.)
if the tin market holds, Alluvial should dc
very well; (3) all quite satisfactory of their
class — -the Monthly has reviewed all three.
... .N.N.: Sorry, unintelligible.. . .P.A.: One
question at a time, please. Where two are
sent together, they don’t generally have to
travel the same way to find an answer....
R.Y.: Almost everything would depend on
the plaintiff being able to show conclusively
that the agent effected the sale on representa-
tions that were not covered by the instruc-
tions and the business details given to him
by her, and thus exceeded the authority con-
ferred on him by his principal. Consult a
solicitor, let him go into the facts and advise.
To risk further costs without being very
sure of success would be most unwise....
A.J.J.T.; E de Cairos-Rego, lion sec. Musical
Assoc, of N.S.W., Ash-street, Sydney....
L.E.P.: See George Brown, 227 George-
street, Sydney.... James R: Chairman ot
the English co. formed to handle the Mavy-
vale (Vic.) brown coal is Sir J. M. Braha-
zon, M.P., House of Commons, London.
Have no knowledge of a local manager....
J.E.8.: Simply the averages recovered have
been unsatisfactory ; but whether that’s gome
to improve nobody 7 knows. The management
says it will; so it is mainly a question of
whether one is prepared to back the manage-
ment. . J.M.11.: In that form the question is
not answerable.... P.L.F.: Choosing a car is a
good deal like choosing a wife. Nobody can
tell you which is the best. A country man
lately commissioned a Sydney engineer to buy
him a car, price stipulated. He chose an
excellent car for the money—an English
make. But the man from the country is
6ft. 3in., and he simply can't stow his legs
in it. That’s all that is the matter with it.
but it is fatal... .G.F.F.: It’s a gamble, of
coui’se, but the big old mine has chances:
and a very small saving will mean a sub-
stantial rise. The other seems doubtful....
A. J.G.: (1) Depends entirely on the amount
of risk you are prepared to take. If you
want the least possible, you will take Gov
ernment bonds. (2) Don’t recommend i 1
your means are limited and a loss would bi
very serious.


\ ill'll \ i ' • , / / / ' ~ 7 7 / *
\ s\ \ /// / / /, //
H
r
H
Miss Wyn Richmond, a beautiful Rexona Girl, now starring in
'‘Sunny,” at the Empire Theatre, Sydney, writes: —
“Rexona Soap is delightful, and I can thoroughly recommend
it to anyone who wishes to have a fresh and clear complexion
and bright and healthy hair. I use it in preference to all others.”
That natural beauty of
skin and hair which cannot
be imitated can be obtained
by regular use of Rexona
Skin and Facial Soap.
Ordinary toilet soaps do
not assert this influence.
Many of them contain free
alkali, which tends to dry
the skin and destroy its
delicate texture. Even the
best of such soaps can only
cleanse —they cannot heal
and protect the skin.
Rexona Soap contains the same
soothing, healing, antiseptic balsams
as Rexona, the Rapid Healer, the
value of which in the treatment of
skin affections is known throughout
the world. Simply use Rexona Skin
and Facial Soap regularly once or
twice a day and see if it does not
quickly soothe and cleanse the pores,
lessen the tendency to pimples and
leave the complexion clear, fresh and
velvety.
mm
r
m
<
K, . «*
x;
mm
m
i
\
m
m
f
m
9
W
1
: - x/>:C
Three
Charming
Studies of
“Sunny”
(Miss Wyn Richmond),
u Beautiful Rexona Girl.
Ŕ
•-
V ■
v ,
\
I:'
Sor Health
ant) eauty
0,
m
'Mil"!
S'
\o' vV
*\S>
9\y*
fW/M
m 0
tfmM


The greatest
virtue any car
can offer
"Its engine improves with use”
No Willys-Knight
engine so far as
toe know, has ever
worn out -
M odern Features of the
W illy s'Knight
Speed between 60 and 70 miles
an hour. Extraordinarily long
sustained high speed. Power
on any hill to pass most cars in
high. 5t025 miles in 7/4seconds.
Powerful 4-wheel mechanical
brakes . . . last word in safety.
Advanced beauty in body design
and colour harmony
Eliminate engine-vibration —minimize friction do
away with carbon troubles and valve-grinding—and
you accomplish these three important things . . «
Your car is practically never out of your service -
your upkeep cost is cut in half- —and you add scores oj
thousands of perfectly good miles to the usefulness of
your car.
In the poppet-valve-engined car, it is the pounding
of cams against push-rods, the contact of push-rods
on rocker-arms, the recoil of valves under coiled
springs that cause vibration. And, in time, vibration
will wreck the finest engine ever built.
In the sleeve-valve-engined Willys-Knight Six there
is no pounding of metal upon metal. No elaborate
mechanism of rocker-arms and springs . . .You
never have carbon troubles. There are no valves to
grind . . .
The Knight engine is simplicity itself. It consists
essentially of but two metal sleeves operating with a
gliding motion. No vibration. No friction. Simply
two single sleeves working smoothly, silently, up and
down, one within the other, in a constant film of oil.
In addition to the exclusive advantages of the famous
Knight sleeve-valve-engine—you have beauty and
luxurious comfort such as are found only in the
world’s most distinguished motor cars. Arrange for
a drive in a Willys-Knight Six and you will want to
drive it always.
WILLYS-KNIGHT SIX
Two Chassis Models Various Body Style,
Model 66—Wheelbase 126* 5-passenger Touring, 7 passenger Touring, Roadster, 5-passenger
Sedan, 7-passenger Sedan, Coupe, Cabriolet Coupe.
Model 70 Wheelbase 113" Touring, 4 door Sedan_ 2 -door Sedan, Roadster, Coupe,
Overland Sydney, Ltd., 148-150 Castlereagh Street, SYDNEY.
Overland Victoria Pty., Ltd., 117-121 Lonsdale Street, MELBOURNE.
Overland South Australia, Ltd., 236-238 Victoria Square, ADELAIDE
E. G. Eager & Son, Ltd.. Breakfast Creek Road, Newstead, BRISBANE.
H. C. Heathorn & Co., Ltd., HOBART and LAUNCESTON.
Adams Motors, Ltd., 442-446 Murray Street, PERTH,
SEE YOUR LOCAL DEALER.
WILLYS-OVERLANP
EI N E
MOT O R
CARS


Bowlers' —
Are biased in favour of
this long-lasting creamy
lather. It makes their
shave a daily pleasure.
.VELVET
SHAVING STICK
J. KITCHEN a SONS PIT. LTD.
VELVET
SLAVING STICK
SB
ShS®
AUSTRALIA’S BEST.
RESCH’S
LAGER, DINNER ALE,
PILSENER & STOUT.
RESCH’S BITTER ALE,
AUSTRALIA'S BE.iT, BITTER.
Western Australian Distributors:
BURNS, PHILP & CO., LTD., PERTH AND GERALDTON.
HARVEY’S “SPECIAL” Whisky
MELLOWED BY AGE ALONE.
Sole Agents: RESCH’S, LTD., Redforn, Sydney.
[2
15he
W. W. GREENER
“EMPIRE”
Hammerless Gun
Obtainable from all Retailers.
Price £2l.
Wholesale Representatives:
W. P. THOMPSON 8 CO. PTY., LTD.
405-7 Lonsdale Street,
Melbourne.
SPORTING
NOTIONS
Under the Whip
The Sydney bookmakers haven ; t had a
really bad day for ever so long, but it
looked as if they were in for one after four
races had been decided at Rosehill on Satur-
day. L.C., an even-money shot, took the
Maiden Hurdle; then Ransack (2 to 1), for
whom there was a heavy commission, finished
just a little too well for Bunkum (20 to 1)
and Cadenza (10 to 1) in the Autumn Han-
dicap, after the chances of half a dozen
horses, including Roisyce and Golden Grist
i fifth and sixth) had, through no fault of the
man who presses the button, been ruined
at the start. The ring got back some of its
losses when Ravenswood (7 to 1), who is
a clumsy-looking beast for one so aristocrati-
cally bred (he is by Kenilworth —Lady Ryl-
stone), beat Lady Merriwa (12 to 1) and 17
others in the Granville Stakes, but it would
have been much better pleased had the half-
length which separated Davidson’s mount
from Lady Merriwa been the other way
about. Davidson was on another winner in
the Juvenile Handicap, and as the hope-
fully-named Winalot was a 2-to-l favorite,
.MeShortodds inwardly groaned again. But
the Rosehill Handicap got him out of
trouble. Bravado (5 to 2) was favorite, but
Dion and Lucy Thrice (each 12 to 1)
had the finish to themselves, and very excit-
ing they made it. J. A. Murdoch’s com-
pactly-built Demosthenes gelding finally
prevailed by a head; Lintress (5 to 1), who
beat the other nine, was two lengths behind
Thrice’s small daughter, and the 10 fur-
longs were run in 2min. 6j)sec. Then P>er-
nesk (12 to 1) made the outing profitable
for MeShortodds by downing Cajole (6 to
41. Onward (20 to 1) and 17 others in the
Ilighweight Handicap. This daughter _of
Rernard-Eskdalmuir is doing a preparation
for the Brisbane Cup, in which she has 7st.
131 b., and was thought to be unready. Such
thoughts help to buy cars for MeShortodds
and jewels for the missus.
£ $ * *
At the Randwick meeting next Saturday
(Sydney Tattersall’s Club has the date),
dividends may be declared on some of the
horses hereinafter mentioned :
Flying Handicap, six furlongs: Cadenza
(6st. 111 b.), 1; Reference (6st. 71b.), 2.
Tattersall’s Stakes, 10 furlongs: Trahere
(Bst. 71b.). 1; Chivalry (6st. 71b.), 2.
Winter Stakes, 11 furlongs; Lucy Thrice
(6st. 91b.), 1; Varney (6st. 121 b.), 2.
Welter, eight furlongs: Tloppicker (Bst.
121 b.). 1; Sea Risk (9st. 21b.), 2.
«!• H*
For years past, although attendances have
increased, as also has the ring’s turnover,
there has been a steady decline in the total
amount staked on N. S. Wales totalisators.
In 1925-26 £2,700,844 went through the
machines, as compared with £3,303,820 in
1920-21. Premier Lang and the Auditor-
General, who are not racing men, have de-
cided that the slump is mainly due to the dis-
appointment felt when the machine returns
less than the sums staked on placed horses,
which impression is, of course, ridiculous.
In future, therefore, sufficient is to be set
apart from the pool in two- and three-
dividend races to provide for the return of
the sum “invested,” plus 75 p.c. and 25 p.c.
of the distributable balance in one case and
50 p.c., 30 p.c. and 20 p.c. in the other.
Also two divs. are to be declared where there
are more than four and not more than seven
starters, and three dividends where there
are more than seven starters. It is hoped
that the new arrangements will attract big
punters. They are more likely to drive away
small punters, who alone are worth studying.
For small punters, and for the Government
and the clubs also, the Westralian system
is far and away the best —straightout and
place totes, with an equal division on the
place machine; 10s. each ticket in the grand-
stand and ss. in the leger reserve. Also,
what with the N.S.W. Government's cut
<9 p.c.), that of the clubs (3| p.c.), frac-
tions and unclaimed divs., the public got back
only 86.13 p.c. of what it speculated last
year. A deduction of nearly 14 p.c. is mon-
strous. Five p.c. ought to be enough for the
Government and 10 p.c. altogether.
* * * ■ *
Going home after the Rundown Park
(Vic.) meeting on Saturday, punters gloom-
ily complained that the programme had been
far too long. There, were eight events, only
one of which went to a favorite; three
of the winners were at double-figure odds,
and when • 10 to 1 or better is offered at
down-the-line meetings it means that very
WELL BOOKED.
THE INFANT: “Is that the bait in the basket, mummy?"
MOTHER: “Must be, clear; look how they re biting."
little money has gone on. Laurie McCann’s
gelding Hoinerus was the saddest disappoint-
mout of the day; on the strength of a good
third at Aspendale he was made a 5-to-2
favorite for the Park Handicap, eight fur-
longs but took no part in the finish, the
Honorious gelding Honorium (8 to 1) scor-
ing rather easily from Duckshot (9 to 2)
and Diamond Plume (12 to 1), who* had
shared the pacemaking. Honorium, who was
ridden by F'ullarton, is trained by Elwood
Fisher who has a half-share in the animal.
and had Fisher’s best polish on him. The
time was ordinary—lmin. 42sec. A spirited
finish in the Plate resulted in Abdera (10
to 1) getting the verdict by half a head
from Ashtaroth (8 to 1 1), with Translator
(5 to 11 half a length away, the favorite,
Roval Joker who met with' trouble, being
a long way’ back. For a Toorak winner
Ybdera was nicely handicapped at Sst. 21b.
in this company, and after Tehan rode her
hack to the enclosure scores of disgusted
sports explained to one another that they
would have put. their shirts on her had
they thought she was ready.
“Thormanby”: The Epsom Derby, still
the world’s greatest race, is to be rim on
.Tune 1. In the 147 years of its existence
it has been won by horses racing in the
colors of emperors, princes, dukes, French
and Hungarian counts, Italian chevaliers,
.Tew’burg millionaires and Broken Hill mag-
nates down to mere “heads,” or, as the
English call them, “legs.” There is no
record, so far, of anyone connected with
the stage having annexed the honor, though
nearly every other profession under Heaven
has been represented. This time the record
may crack, for Alfred Butt, England’s lead-
ing theatrical magnate, owns the favorite,
Call Boy, by Hurry On—Comedienne
—aptly named and aptly placed. Call Boy
was beaten a head in the Two Thousand by
Adam’s Apple. His friends say the mile
was not far enough for him, as he likes a
bit of distance. A good win over a mile and
a quarter in the Newmarket Stakes last week
has confirmed this opinion and shortened
his price.
* * * *
“The Gaffer”: Gentle admonition to
jockeys at the post (B. 28/4/’27) isn’t con-
fined to Brisbane. At a Townsville (N.Q.)
meeting recently the N.Q.R.A. stipendiary
sent a message to the starter to advise two
of the lads that their mounts had drifted
in the betting, and that it would be healthier
for them if they got a move on and kept it
up. On the complaint of the owners of the
suspected prads, the stewards carpeted the
stipe, with the result that the N.Q.B.A
rapped them over the knuckles for exceeding
their jurisdiction. Townsville stewards
always were a bit uppish. I remember when
Sammy the Shark had a barney on Cluden
course with a chap who wanted his ticket
cashed. Sammy, who was having a drink
at the stand bar, told the cove to wait till
lie was ready. As that didn’t answer,
Sammy cracked him with one of those old-
fashioned soda-water bottles. When he came
round, the nark went crying to the stewards,
and dashed if they didn’t tell Sammy to cash
the brief or shut his bag up. But that
was a long time ago. Maybe they’re not
so rough nowadays.
“Reformed Urger”: Some of the Sydney
papers have revived the old argument as to
whether or not jockeys pull horses, and the
usual battle of blither from both sides is
in full blast. The best places for observing
the gentle art of stopping ’em are the small
out-back meetings, the further north and west
the better. The conventions demand a cer-
tain amount of camouflage at Big City meet-
ings ; in places I knew when I was in the
game, direct action was the thing. The
travelling strings we used to take from meet-
ing to meeting by road got so hard in the
mouth that the boys had to do dumb-bell
•
work with the saddle-cloth weights to get
up enough muscle' to ride ’em to orders. In
that way I lost the best hoy I ever had.
I lent him to an elderly squatter to ride
a dead ’un the first day of the Urandangi
race-week. The mean old cow put on a
rotten bridle, and when poor Johnny was
steadying his- nag at the turn into the
straight both reins broke off short at the
bit. So Johnny fell over his mount’s rump
and broke his neck. And, to top up, the
squatter cove docked the price of a pair of
new reins out of poor Johnny’s riding fee.
M.Q. (and Rafferty) Rules
“Tiger” Payne was under forfeit of £5O to
make list. 91b. when he met Charlie Long
at the Sydney Stadium on Saturday night,
but he left his dressing-room scaling list.
121 b. Long, who weighed list. 2|lb., refused
to claim the other black’s £5O, a proceeding
which would have been harshly criticised had
they boxed 15 leisurely rounds; but they
didn’t. Payne went right at his stocky, broad-
shouldered opponent, and it became a case of
a rusher being rushed. The round was
even, but Charlie looked surprised as he sat
blowing in his chair. The clash in the second
round was even more tremendous, and Payne
took a decided lead. The rights that he
fairly smashed on to Long’s jaw and temple
would have felled the late Joe Grimm. The
third was similar, though to the trained eye
it was evident that Long fought in despera-
tion. A fierce fusillade of heavy exchanges,
and then one-extra-high-powered right to the
butt of the jaw sent Long staggering back, to
fall on his knees, clutching the west middle
rope. There he remained till Wallis had
chanted “nine, out” ; then he jumped up, still
dazed, and seemed likely to strike the referee.
But his second restrained him. and he soon
regained his self-control; though he main-
tained that he hadn’t been counted out. It
was a thriller while it lasted, and there was
a huge attendance. Takings were £1652, less
one shilling.
* * * *
“13. M.”: Tim Hegarty, a great feather-
weight in his day. had to fight lightweights
and welters when he went to the U.S.A., and
crashed accordingly. Is history going to
repeat itself in the case of Billy Grime? One
"Doc” Snell, described as “a rugged light-
weight,” was selected as Grime’s opponent
for the Riverina lad’s first mill at Los
Angeles. Snell is famous on the Pacific Slope
for the tornadic force and continuity of
his attack, and cabled accounts suggest
that he carried the Australian off his feet,
fast as they are. He is said to have floored
Billy several times; but we who have seen
the lad fall in a fight know that for him to
be hit to the canvas is an almost unknown
happening. His tumbles are almost invari-
ably brought about by his blocking a wild
one when off balance in a lightning back
move. That his visits to the mat at Los
Angeles were of this nature appears the more,
likelv from the statement in one case that
he "bounced to his feet without taking the
count,” and in another that “Grime was
up the next moment.” It is not surmising
that the verdict at the end of the 10 rounds
went to the Tacoma pug, for Yankee referees
take no stock in boxing. They gauge a man s
ability by his speed and slatherumwhack.
If gouging, biting and kicking were allowed
they’d be all the better pleased. The Los
Angeles scribes acknowledge that Grime out-
boxed and outliit their man in about half the
10 rounds —a tremendous testimony to the
style of thing Billy showed them. All the
same, if the people who have got hold ol
him are going to send him against “rugged
lightweights” as a matter of policy he will
be a marvel if he escapes a licking. Johnnie
Thompson, another “Cyclone,” fought as a
rugged lightweight” in America. YV hen he
came to Australia he had to own that he was
a middleweight, and box in that class.
* * * *
Gate-money records, and the front doors,
were broken at Melbourne Stadium on
Saturday night when Billy Edwards (12st.
51b.) scored a lucky win at the expense ot
Mike Yokel (12st. 131 b.), two falls to one.
The Canadian, who claims lrish-n else
descent, looks like a Spanish bullfighter, and
talks like a Yank, added to the unpopularity
which has put £l5OO into his pocket in less
than three weeks —there were 12,000 people,
who paid £2600, in the house, and there would
have been 3000 more could the building have
held them. A “popular” man like Clarrie
Weber wouldn’t earn £l5OO in 52 weeks.
Billy gained the first fall in the third
round, clamping his headlock on repeatedly
until the Yank was helpless. Mike nearly
squared matters in the next with a reverse
wristlock, but William levered his man off
with a leg under the chin. In the fiftl
round, however, Mike caught the Canuck
with his “Boston” crab, from which there is
no escape, and William capitulated in 3min.
59sec. The Wyoming man then took charge
of affairs, and in the seventh round he
seemed to be getting all over William, when
their heads clashed, or so it seemed, and
both went down. Yokel fell flat on his back,
(Continued on page Jfl.)
MORAL CALIBRE.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“The Liverpool (N.S.W.) Coursing Association
unanimously carried a resolution of protest against
some disparaging remarks by the Crown Prosecutor
on the sport. Mr. Scully, M.L.A., said he had come
in contact with many coursing enthusiasts and had
found them as high in their moral calibre as any
other sporting fraternity.”
Spurn not as aught but square
The chans who follow
Coursing, like dogs the hare,,
Possessed by gusto rare,
And hurl their hats in air
And whoop and hollo
When jaws relentless close
On timid Puss’s woes.
Heed not the sneers and snorts
Of learned brothers
Who drone in musty courts
And specialise in torts.
We’re just as dinkum sports
As any others
Where the lone - dogs are loosed.
Why should we be traduced':
Our rep. as high we prize
As gold—or radium.
Chicanery we despise
As sturdily as guys
The turf who patronise.
Or pack the Stadium
Where grim, prognathous pngs
Deface each other’s lugs.
Why should a Wig assess
As valuator
1 >egrees of crookedness
I n sport: We’re straight, we guess,
As those to Trots who press—
Possibly straighter—
And as immune to slur
Our moral calibre.
N.S.W.
T. THE R


VM
w
S’ £
VJV
'fa
NOBEL:
: -V-.
A
For “good shooting”
you must have reliable
ammunition.
ALOBRITISH
ELEY-
KYNOCH
Cartridges
are absolutely reliable under
ALL conditions.
Obtainable at all
Gunsmiths and Dealers d
throughout Australasia. I
By Royal Warrant to
His Majesty King George /.
It Pays to Buy the Best—and British
WAKEFIELD
y
It is important for the primary producer to insist on using
only the best in order to insure economy, efficiency and
satisfaction.
When the best has also the unquestioned merit of being
British-owned, there should be no doubt of its receiving
immediate preference.
BRITAIN IS THE BIGGEST BUYER OF AUSTRALIA’S
WOOL, WHEAT, FRUIT, DAIRY PRODUCE & MINERALS
Without her trade, Australia would be bankrupt.
Every penny you spend in supporting British trade is a
national gain, and is to your advantage.
“Castrol,” the Premier Motor Oil, is the product of the
only 100 per cent. British Firm of Lubrication Specialists with
branches throughout Australia, New Zealand and the World.
Obtainable from Leading Garages.
C. C. WAKEFIELD & CO., Ltd.
The All-British Firm .
Head Office for Australasia:
ATLAS BUILDINGS, 8 SPRING STREET, SYDNEY.
BRANCHES IN ALL AUSTRALIAN STATES AND NEW ZEALAND.
Sow Scientifically
The
Suntyne
Jt
The Tyne Cultivator and the Grain and Fertiliser Drill combined in one implement. Its method
of sowing conserves moisture, hastens germination, and increases the yield.
Write for illustrated catalogue of all Sunshine Implements and Engines. Prices are lowest, and terms most liberal.
H. V. McRAY PTY., LTD.
SUNSHINE HARVESTER WORKS
BRISBANE, SYDNEY, MELBOURNE, ADELAIDE, PERTH.


Ifadltury’s
<dairV /mlk*
CHOCOLATE
Wholesome nut bars, scrumptious plain bars or the new Neapoli-
tan dainty and convenient tablets packed in carton. Try C. D. M
Chocolate to-day made every day from Fresh Dairy Milk.
St nL
Ŗ
The TOP NOTCH'ScotcK
with his shoulders on the mat, and the rel-eree
said it was a fall, as no doubt it was.
'Thought I was outside the ring, said the
loser who recovered almost immediately. 1 he
winner had to be carried to his corner, where
news of the victory was presently breathed
into his unshell-like ear.
Footbrawl
Rough play was a noticeable feature of
the Rugby League game between South Syd-
ney and Western Suburbs at the Sydney
Cricket Ground on Saturday. South won
by 27 to 12, the pace and accurate com-
bination of the premiers leaving the opposi-
tion standing, though South was two men
short at the finish. West also lost a player,
sent off, and did not improve its chances
by preferring to play the man rather than
riie ball. Harris, at centre, and Laplmm, in
the forwards, were South’s best men, while
McMillan again gave a good showing, at
full-back, for West, in addition to kicking
three goals. Eastern Suburbs found North
Sydney on the improve, particularly in the
forwards; it took East all its time to
win. 15-13. St. George scared its supporters
stiff at Earl Park by finishing the first half
on level terms with Balmain, 2-2. W aking
up in the second spell, the Saints added 16
points, running out winners by 18 to 5 in
a game which saw Balmain’s hooker, Ten-
nant. very successful in getting possession,
(ilebe and University finished a dull game
at Wentworth Oval, with Glebe winners by
8-7, though Uni. was 7-2 at half-time; Var-
sity’s pack seems the weak section of the
side. South and St. George are now level
at the head of the competition table, and
rheir meeting should draw the gate of the
season.
University, the Union premiers, gave
Randwick a most convincing licking on Syd-
ney ’Varsity Oval —22 to 3 it was. The
students have never fielded a better side
than this season’s; it is practically up to
representative form. Glebe-Balmain’s sound
and heavy team disposed of Western Suburbs
in workmanlike fashion by 28-12. The first
appearance of “Pup” Raymond since his
return from Oxford was a great success, and
it is a pity the big fellow cannot turn out
oftener. A lively game between Y.M.C.A.
and North saw the young men victorious by
ij to 5; while Eastern Suburbs made top
score in its struggle with Manly, final figures
being 28-26. Forsayth, the King’s, Oxford
and Scottish full-back, turned out for East.
* * * *
“Der Jong”: South Africa, which has
already sent Rugby Union and athletic teams
to Australia, proposes to follow suit with
a Soccer side, in 1928. The Afrikanders play
very high-class Soccer, and get plenty of
practice against good English sides. lake
the other S. African athletic bodies, the
association is rigidly amateur, and the
players will receive only a £5O kit allow-
ance for the tour. The party will be mod-
estly content with second-class fares, but
insists on first-class pubs, thereby indicating
that it has mastered one of the basic prin-
ciples of successful travelling—to ride rough,
if need be, but to feed on lordly dishes amid
purple and fine linen.
* * * *
Twelve thousand people turned out to
consider the Chinese question at Sydney
Show Ground when the touring Chinese Soc-
cer team tackled a strong N.S.W. side. The
visitors, having arrived the previous day,
were nothing like fit, and N. S. Wales scored
six goals to three. Nevertheless, the Chinese
played clever and attractive football till
their condition petered out; in Tso Kai Sing
they have a first-class outside right, while
Tai Leung King is a smart centre-forward.
On the N.S.W. side, Masters stood out by
himself. He kicked three of the goals.
Having won both their matches in West-
ralia. the Czecho-Slcvaks overwhelmed a
South Aus. side in Adelaide, scoring 11 goals
to one. An Australian team gave them much
more trouble in the Wheat State capital on
Saturday, but the Bohemians prevailed by
two goals to one. Pine, the Czech centre-
half. displayed brilliant form, while Orr
fVie. 1 and Mitchell (S.A.) made a good
showing for Australia.
H! * * *
An incipient gale spoilt, most of Mel-
bourne’s football on Saturday, scoring being
uniformly low and play scrambling. But
vast crowds roared encouragement and
insults at the chief matches, especially where
the three undefeated teams —-Collingwood,
South and North Melbourne —went down
wallop. North was at home to Geelong, and
by superior marking and "better pace worked
up an exciting finish, losing ultimately by
two points—s 3 to Geelong’s 55. North, is
evidently a proposition to be reckoned with.
South went to St. lvilda, played its usual
rugged game and started the last quarter 7
points behind. With the wind at its back,
victory looked certain. It got S points, but
the Saints, in the prettiest exhibition of the
day, got 9, and the verdict —63 points to
South’s 55. ‘Wood’s calculations similarly
miscarried, doing strong through the last
quarter against the Richmond Tigers, it
wanted but a couple of goals for victory,
but could get only one—Richmond, 55 points;
'Wood, 49. Carlton beat Essendon by 11
points merely, but the Blues had most of
the say throughout and never looked like
losing—Carlton, 47 points; ’Don, 36. Foots-
cray pulverised Hawthorn by 7S points to
52; and Melbourne dealt similarly with Fitz-
roy—93 to 59. The Maroons have fallen on
evil days.
What is known as the Watson case has
got the Vic. League tangled in a fair-sized
knot. Colin Watson, St. Kilda’s accom-
plished full-back, had a mind to coach and
play for Maryborough. St. K. refused him
a transfer, so he stood down all last season.
This season he went to Maryborough and
bogged in without St. K.’s permit. The
Vie. League pointed out to the Ballarat
League, to which Maryborough belongs, that
this was illegal. Ballarat replied that the
Vic. League merely represented Melbourne
(though it includes Geelong) ; that Ballarat
rules permitted Watson to play, in default
of a right of appeal, which the Vic. League
grants to no player; that the same rules had
been inspected and its affiliation endorsed
after Ballarat had flouted the Vic. League
by letting Maryborough play Watson; and
that it was quite capable of managing its
own affairs, anyhow. The Vic. League has
disqualified the Ballarat League and all its
players and minions; and an association
comprising eight large country leagues
threatens to declare war on the Vie. League.
Good may come out of the imbroglio if the
Vic. League has nous enough to give country
leagues representation on its councils, so
that it may represent the whole State and
not merely part of Melbourne and Geelong,
and fix up a cast-iron agreement that will
discourage the buying and selling of players.
Racquet and Bawl
With Gerald Patterson and Ilawkes miss-
ing from the Victorians, N.S.W. tennis-
players felt sure of keeping possession of
the Mars Buckley Cup as a result of the
inter-State matches on the Ruslicutter Bay
courts. The cup, however, was dashed from
their lips, the visitors winning by 11 rubbers,
24 sets, 243 games to 10 24 sets,
242 games, and scoring their State’s thirty-
sixth victory out of 71 tourneys. N.S.W.
won four of the six singles, young Craw-
ford’s convincing defeat of O’Hara Wood,
6 —o, 6 —3, being a measure of consolation
for the ultimate result. Schlesinger and
Ivalms defeated the lengthy Wertheim and
Dickinson respectively, but the youthful
Haege got the verdict over Jim Willard, who
retired with a sprained ankle after the second
set had run to 12 —12. And though It. O.
Cummings accounted for Wallace, Lum
added a Victorian point by beating Guy
Williams, of Barraba, by two sets to one.
The Victorians took four of the six doubles
events. Schlesinger and Cummings roused
hopes in N.S.W. breasts by a clear-cut win,
VISIONS.
MBS. LASTICSIDES: “Ah, what a world this
would be if there were no cocktails and
no bridge!”
MISS TRYSPADES: “Yes — wouldn't it be
awful!”
t;—4, (*►—4, over O’Hara Wood and Wert-
lieim, while Willard aud Crawford outed
Haege and Dickinson, t> —• >, i —s. I aim
and Wallace, however, won from Kalins and
Williams and, later, from Cummings and
Schlesinger. Crawford and Hopman also
succumbed to O’Hara Wood and Wertlieim,
while Ilaege and Dickinson clinched the vic-
tory for Victoria by beating Ivalms and
Williams. The Vic. ladies also won.
“Cash Amateur”: The N.B.W. L.T.A.,
which has been backing and filling on the
amateur question for a long time, has decided
that an amateur may accept money for
allowing the use of his name on tennis requi-
sites. That is iu distinct opposition to the
expressed wish of the International Federa-
tion, and to the recent English decision that
entries in L.T.A. tournaments would not be
accepted from “amateurs” of this description.
Certainly the Amateur Federation made a
loophole by leaving the definition of amateur-
ism to local governing bodies. Actually, it
never dreamed that an association’s hunger
for gate-money would lead to the white-
washing as amateurs of a class of player
SALESMANSHIP.
POSSIBLE CUSTOMER: “But I tell you I haven’t a garage to put
her in.”
SALESMAN: “Now that’s the beauty of a car of this make— you can
keel) her in the pantry."
which in most countries has been dubbed pro-
fessional. After that, the N.S.W. association’s
resolve to forbid amateurs and professionals
playing together or against each other before
a paying audience “without the association’s
permission” fell a trifle flat. They have been
doing it for months, and have practically
worked the game to death. In any case,
getting the association’s permission is about
as difficult as it is for a Scot to drink whisky
without water.
* * * *
“Shrewsbury”: Britain is plunged in a
controversy as to whether lawn tennis should
be called by that name or plain “tennis” —a
title that really belongs to a very much older
game. There is little in common between
tennis and lawn tennis, save that both con-
sist in hitting a ball over a net with a
stringed racquet, Tennis proper is played m
an elaborate roofed and walled building, the
sides and ends of which, as well as the net
and floor of rlie court, play important parts
in the game. The advocates for pinching the
ancient game’s name for the outdoor sport
urge that they wish to get away from .the
suggestion of effeminacy attached to “lawn
tennis in the early days of its popularity
among mid-Victorian curates and their femi-
nine following. But it is doubtful if the
change would make any difference. Over 90
per cent, of those who speak of “tennis” refer
to the “lawn” variety, being ignorant of the
older game’s existence. Whatever they may
think of the modern game isn’t likely to be
varied by the use of a new label.
* * * *
“Centurion”: Not since Hollywood won
the war has America loomed so large in
German eyes as when Tilden and Hunter
visited Berlin, giving exhibition matches, to
mark Germany’s re-entry to the Davis Cup
competition. The Yanks had it all their own
way, but one Landemann made a good snow-
ing against Hunter, who won by 18 games
to 10, being pushed to 9-7 in the third set.
Tilden told Fritz that his team might get as
far as the final with France, but had no
hope of avenging Versailles this year.
Car and Cycle
“Bouragi” : A new rubber-treating process,
invented by Dr. Klein, a Hungarian, has
been made public by Dunlops, who have
acquired the rights and expect it to revolu-
tionise the manufacture of inner tubes tor
motors, and rubber goods generally. the
latex from the trees, instead of being coagu-
lated and brought to Europe in solid form,
which demands a lengthy process to soften
it again, is carried to the, factories m its
natural liquid form. This is deposited m
a mould, mainly by means of an electin’
current, to the required thickness, much as
silver is deposited in electro-plating. Superior
quality of rubber and greater economy are
claimed as advantages of the new process.
* * * *
“C.Q.”: J. B. Dunlop, who invented the
pneumatic tyre in 1888. had faithful heirs
and assigns. Of the 410 models of all sorts
of cars at the Melbourne motor show 0.” p.e.
wore the Dunlop brand. The rest were
divided amongst 10 different firms.
* * * *
“Trembler”: Slime deposits in radiator
tubes are a common source of trouble, especi-
ally with out-back motorists, who cannot
always be sure of a clean water supply. The
deposit can be prevented by chlorinating the
water. A very small quantity of chloride
to the gallon will do the trick; it will not
only increase the efficiency of the radiator
but save time and trouble taken in cleaning
the radiator tubing.
-j. jj S ❖
“Centurion” • Hadfidds, the gretit Sheffield
steel-manufacturers, have acquired the. Bean
interest in Bean cars, and are now in
control. They have long been closely linked
with the Bean co., supplying the Hadheld
alloy and special steels used in Bean pro
duction. Iv e r r
Thomas, one of the
most distingushed
of automobile engi-
neers, is to be
managing director
of the new con-
cern, and Egerton
Banks will be gen-
erali manager. Both
these English engi-
neers have held
high positions with
foreign auto-manu-
facturing firms,
Thomas with the
American Pieree-
low co. and
Banks with the
Berliet people, of
France. Like Had-
fields themselves,
Banks has a first-
hand knowledge of
Australian condi-
tions and require-
ments, and we may
see this reflected
in future products
of the Bean eo. coming this way.
* * * *
“Backfire”: The donkey that died of star-
vation because it couldn’t decide which to
start on of two precisely similar bales of
hay is paralleled every day by the motorist
who never becomes one because he can’t
make a choice from among the multitude of
cars of apparently equal merit. At the recent
show in Melbourne there wasn’t a spark-
plug to choose between a dozen brands in
the same class, and the prospective buyer
got no assistance from the agent or the liter-
ature provided, which were equally extrava-
gant. It seems as if the time has come
for an independent tribunal of motor-car
surveyors, who will draw up a Lloyd’s list,
classing each make as Al, A 2, as circum-
stances warrant. The merits of the different
brands in regard to hill-climbing, negotiating
bush roads, etc., might also be tabulated.
The flamboyant catalogue might also receive
attention and, if its optimism was justified,
receive the official stamp. Before the scheme
could be launched, however, experts of
supreme gifts would have to be selected.
There is as much passion and prejudice
expended over the respective merits of cars
as of women.
* * * *
“The Juice”: Touching that Diesel-
engined car (B. 5/5/’27), British trade
journals are giving much space to the annual
tests of fancy fuels in France. The assort-
ment presented this year included suction-
gas made from wood, and wood or peat char-
coal. acetylene, coal-gas, benzol, alcohol,
methane-gas, wood-pulp distillations, and
mixtures of alcohol, naphthaline and heavy
oils. Several gave excellent results, but it.
was found that, without exception, the bet-
ter the result the more horrible the perfume
left behind. Till this little drawback has
been eliminated, it looks as if petrol will
carry on, undisturbed.
* * * *
“F.P.”: The entire reliability of the
modern car and its equipment is seen in
the arrival of Mrs. Sandford and Miss
Christie at Darwin from Adelaide, after
doing the trip to Perth and back from the
City of Culture. There was no mechanical
trouble, save of minor kinds, and only one
puncture in the total run of 10,000 miles.
The feat is the more striking since the two
ladies are Maorilanders with no previous
experience of the. very different conditions
in Centralia.
* * * *
“C.Q.”: I will look on these motor-per-
ambulators that dodge between the legs
of the big cars with more respect in future.
Miss Joan llichmond has just blown back to
Melbourne in her baby Citroen, 7 h.p. She,
left by herself in June of last year to visit
her brother, who farms 125,000 acres near the
N. Australia boundary at Camooweal (Q.).
After a ten-months’ stay she ambled back
again, with her mother and brother aboard,
having been at the wheel of the tiny con-
traption for 6000 miles.
(Continued on page Jf2.)


WHO’S WHO
AUSTRALIA
1927. -
PUBLISHED AND FOR SALE BY
International Press
Service Association.
OFFICES.
SYDNEY: MELBOURNE:
259 CasOereagh Street. Chancery House.
ADELAIDE: PERTH:
Kither's Buildings. W.A. Trustee Buildings.
,I\ QUEUK
The Whisky for Connoisseurs.
GRANTS
LIQUEUR
SCOTCH WHISKY.
Beautifully Clean, Soft and Mellow.
BROOKS RUPTURE
Can Now be
Purchased in
Australia at London
Prices.
Ř
if you are Ruptured write at once for full particular!
or this Modern Invention. Eight, cool and com
tortable. Expert attends to Mail Orders.
AGENTS: GUYATT & CO,, Est. 1863.
DEPT. B,
Surgical Instrument ami Truss Makers.
257 a GEORGE STREET
(Opposite Bridge Street), SYEISEY.
If any illustration in “The bulletin
takes your fancy, write to the
Manager, who will quote you price
for the original.
The Nineteenth Hole
“Mid Iron” : Golfers who are fond of taking
practice swings near a thronged tee were
shocked at learning that a young woman had
been awarded £150 by a British jury after
receiving a whack in the face from the driver
of a too-enthusiastic practice swinger. Years
ago there was a somewhat similar case in
Liverpool (Eng.). The young woman in that
instance was playing in a foursome. One of
the men, using liis brassie, was too low and
broke his shaft near the head. The latter,
instead of flying forward, swung to the left
in a semi-circle at the end of the twine wrap-
ping the joint, the other end still being fast
to the shaft. It struck the plaintiff, standing
10 yards to the left, a blow that permanently
disfigured her, and she claimed and got heavy
damages, in spite of the obviously accidental
nature of the happening.
« $ * *
“Scruff” : There will be a fair Australian
entry in the British amateur golf champion-
ship (B. 12/5/’27) after all. In addition to
Leu Nettlefold, of Hobart, whose left-handed
stance will arouse interest, 1 the amateur
champion’s father, R. Nettlefold, is a starter
Other Australians entered are the Victorians
R. Oppenheim and J. C. Grimwade, golf
captains of Oxford and Cambridge respec-
tively. Oppenheim is drawn against the
younger Nettlefold in the second round.
* * * *
“Piriti”: Maoriland golf probably owes
more to R. C. Kirk, who is bringing a tearn
from the Shivery Isles to N. S. Wales in
quest of the KirkAVindeyer Cup, than to
any other pill-walloper in the Dominion.
The lure of the Royal and Ancient snared
Kirk early in life, and the habit has stuck.
Playing a particularly good stick himself
—he has hovered round the scratch mark
for years—he is a mine of information on
golf lore and methods, and no searcher after
a lost game ever appealed to him in vain.
He has cured more chronic hooks and slices
than most successful pros. Lambton Quay
pedestrians often see him in some grotesque
attitude explaining to some fallcr by the
wayside exactly where he has gone wrong,
or frozen into the posture of one peering
down an imaginary fairway after a mythical
ball. Every mat in Kirk’s home was thread-
bare from practice-swinging till his house-
keeper drove him to erect a hut in his back
yard, now full of weird and wonderful
mechanical devices of his own invention for
the eradication of common faults. “I expect
you are tired,” I once said to him as we were
going home after midnight from a dance.
“Not so tired that I won’t have a few swings
before I turn in,” was the reply. That’s
Kirk.
“N.H.”: A few years ago Adelaide had
only one golfcourse—that at Seaton. Things
are vastly different to-day. The Kooyonga
course rivals Seaton as regards lay-out; the
Marino club is rapidly improving its links,
and the nine-hole Mt. Lofty course, pictur-
esquely situated in a valley surrounded by
heavily-timbered hills, is very popular at
week-ends. This course is blessed with an
unlimited supply of water for the greens,
and the summer rains render it unnecessary
to water the fairways. Then the Mt. Osmond
people are building a temporary club-house,
and hope to have their links ready for play
by June. The plateau on which the links
are situated is almost ideal —the ground is
gently undulating, almost free from out-
crops, and has a natural turf of fescue, the
envy of clubs which have been put to a big
expense to establish artificial turf. Visiting
professionals predict that Mt. Osmond will
be Australia’s leading course in a few years.
“Poached Egg” : America having cornered
the golf championships, Britain is getting
a bit of its own back by supplying the
Yankee market with steel-slxafted golf clubs.
The Yanks are crazy about the steel shaft,
but the Briton prefers the old hickory. So
England, which alone possesses the secret
of making the weldless steel clubs, imports
hickory for its own clubs from America, and
sends ox er the steel gadgets in return. In
a recent month the Birmingham firm which
specialises in the steel shaft shipped 20,000
of them to U.S.A. So far Australia has nor
plunged for the all-metal club, but its im-
munity from breakage should be a strong
point in its favor in this country, especially
on the adamant N.Q. links, on which I have
shattered many a beloved wooden-sliafted
stick.
* * ' * *
“Divot”: Advices from the U.S.A. indicate
that if Joe Kirkwood hasn’t taken out
naturalisation papers he lias acquired the
American language in all its fruity splendor.
Iii a recent interview, Joe is reported as
“guessing” and “telling the world” as to the
manner born. It is bad enough to see the
bait of American dollars leading away our
crack golfers, scullers and so on—Major
Goodscil is also reported to be embracing
American nationality. One might even put
up with the Yanks claiming their successes
as American triumphs. But when it comes
to teaching good Australians to speak in
the tongue of the movie captions, Hie kooka-
burra feels inclined to join issue with the
eagle.
Miscellaneous
“Bardi”: In spite of the Australian Row-
ing Council’s decision not to send an Aus-
tralian eight to Amsterdam next year, there
is a very strong feeling among rowing-men
that a crew should go. The obvious choice
is the Westralian eight, which won such a
pronounced victory in the King’s Cup con-
test at Hobart. The Westralians have a
really great record in this inter-State race
of recent years, and their short, fast stroke
is far better suited to Continental rowing
conditions than the traditional English style,
which still commands confidence—too much,
perhaps—on this side. Expense prevented
the Jarralilanders competing in Brisbane last
year, and the thought of it has chilled the
enthusiasm of the Rowing Council. That
is ’no reason why the latter should not con-
sent to the King's Cup winners being sent
over next year if the money can be raised
privately, as it was in South Australia in
3.924, when the Murray Bridgers went to
Paris. A couple of “benefit” meetings by
the W.A.T.C. and the Trotting Association,
two bodies with generous traditions, would
furnish most of the funds required, and
private subscriptions would surely do the
rest. The despatch of a crew would be good
publicity for the West. An Olympic victory
would be a double-page spread ad.
* * » *
“Wliiz”: The
hare is only a mod-
erately fast animal.
The greyhound is
probably the fleet-
est thing that runs.
From a still start
these rangy fliers
can get over two
furlongs inside 20
sec. Thus the
••sport” of coursing
is a deadly, game
for the hare. She
has to watch two
pursuers, each of
them faster and
each as merciless
as the strike of a
snake. Let her
work her lightning-
flicker shift (her
only defence) a
fleeting instant too
soon and she is
snapped “on the
cross.” That same
instant too late,
and her epitaph ap-
pears on a menu-
card. She never
has time to think.
Should the melee
of a turn mean that
the best thing to do
next is to dash
back between two
snapping rows of
dentistry, “puss” is
already through;
this happened at
Liverpool (N.S.W.)
a week or two ago.
Sooner or later the
unfortunate trapped
animal is dragged
down and slaugh-
tered. If this were
in the interests of
tucker it would be
a cruel way of
obtaining it. As a
means of enriching
bookmakers, it is .just a relic of barbarism.
“Splasli”: Sydney Uni.’s swimming club
lias given the N.S.W. association a useful
lead by deciding to build a pool of its own.
This will be specially constructed to comply
with Olympic rules, and will be the only
thing of its kind in Australia. The asso-
ciation persists in holding its big events
in what is, technically, “tidal water,” the
Domain baths in the Harbor. The resuit
has, been that many records put up in these
baths have . been questioned by the ' Inter-
national Federation, and many which wer,
genuine in all respects have been disallowed.
It was only last year, indeed, that tiic Federa-
tion grudgingly agreed to recognise Domain
baths records as made under conditions as
equable as those of an enclosed pool. The
University’s enterprise should reap good re-
sults.
“S.T.S.” (Loud.) : Touching the slump iu
Oxford sport. A. C. fielder, lion. sec. of the
Amateur Athletic Association, says frankly
what I have been arguing for years, that it
is a direct reaction from the Rhodes scholar-
ship system. Freshmen—-and probably still
more their parents —don’t care to face com-
petition with picked men of several more
years, age and experience, and thus the best
of the home-grown athletes are flocking to
Cambridge instead. To which an Oxford
undergraduate adds : "There is only one col-
lege now where it is considered smart to
play games.” The word "hearty” is satiri-
cally applied to Oxford athletes by those
whose tastes lie rather in the direction ot
motoring and afternoon-tea with the girls.
* * *
“Blue Bye”: There is no doubt that the
homing pigeon has his aggravating obsessions
(B. 21/4/’27). I am reminded of a recent
agonising experience of Bronson s. He entered
some young birds for a 50-mile flight. W hen
the hour for their arrival was due, Bronson,
with his sealed clock all ready tor the inser-
tion of the racing ring from the first pigeon 3
leg, hovered anxiously about his loft. Pre-
sently a couple of the birds came volplaning
down, and Bronson, with visions of first prize,
danced in the yard like David before the Ark,
rattling the while a huge tin of peas. Pigeons
invariably go for a drink after a flight, and
(alas!) it had been raining. The two un-
flurried fowls lit on an adjacent roof, and
there had a long one together from the gutter.
Dislodged by a stone hurled by their mad-
dened owner, the pair flew round for another
minute before entering the trap. They had
wasted three precious minutes on the roof, and
when times were checked at the club later
Bronson found he had missed the fiver by a
minute. Had the brutes reported for duty
immediately on arrival he would have won it
“on his head.”
TEE OFF.
HE: “How do you like your tee?”
SHE (a novice): "Not so well Us a dry Martini."
“Tenth Slip” : The proposed formation of a
cricketers’ club in Sydney has some points,
but there are a few mantraps and spring-
guns lying doggo in it. To begin with, what
constitutes a cricketer? There are a thou-
sand grades, from the vacant-allotment
variety up to the international standard, and
it will take a committee of Solomons to draw
the line. Whether a line is drawn or not,
llie feelings of many arc bound to be out-
raged, with resulting antagonism to the club.
There are other items to be considered,
especially as regards methods of election. Half
the big cricketers are at daggers drawn with
the other half, matters in dispute ranging
from the bonus question to newspaper criti-
cism by one dr the other. Clubs notoriously
increase cliques, and one may expect Board
of Control and selection committee heart-
burnings to be augmented. Whether elections
are conducted ny the members as a whole
or the committee, the atmosphere of the club
may prove to he as thick with blackballs as
that of Anzac Cove once was with bullets. All
may go well, but a club composed entirely of
opera tenors would seem to have brighter
prospects of success.
Business, Robbery., etc.
■'Coffin Nail”: British Board of Trade’s
tobacco-production census for 1924 shows
the ascendancy of the once-despised fag. The
output of cigarettes in 1997 was a mere
167,000 cwt., valued at £8,195,000. In 17
years it had risen to 823,0U0cwt., worth
£62,980,000.
“Borom”Even if the British National
Jewellers’ Association stands firm and sub-
stitutes the aquamarine for the opal in its
list of birth-stones, it won’t make much
difference to the Australian industry. There
still remains the American market, which
will take all the black opals offered. There's
a duty on imports of about 30 per cent.,
but the U.S.A. pay fancy figures for really
good stones.
“FY7”: A Queensland experiment iu
cutting costs is the inauguration of a rail
motor-car service between Ipswich and some
of the adjoining farming centres. Years ago
the Kidston Government imported two
petrol-engined cars of this type for suburban
traffic in between “peak hours." American
built, the contraptions proved costly failures,
putting in most of their time in the work
shops for repairs, till they vanished.
“Bream”: Queensland's jlieetu. also
known as saffron-heart, is all right for axe-
handles, and especially suitable for fishing-
rods. I saw a fin. square rod three feet long
tested in the State Forestry Department. It
was rested on two pieces of wood Gin. high
and 2ft. 6in. apart. A 14st. man then stood
on the middle of it and it deflected only
three inches, springing back as straight as a
die when the load was off. The department
does a good trade in thin stuff suitable for
rods, and also can .supply wattle, becfwood
and other woods that make good rod-butts.
* * * *
“Harold Hardupp”: Tolls collected on
Sydney's Spit bridge go to a mortgagee,
whose loan is being repaid rapidly. Manly
wanted the bridge, but did not see why it
should bleed its ratepayers for a convenience
that would be used by visitors, too. The
Government wouldn’t help. So Manly Coun-
cil got an Act allowing it to borrow £60,009
(it spent another £lO,OOO out of revenue)
to build the bridge, and to establish the toll
system until the debt was extinguished. In
1925 and 1926 the toll brought in £36,000.
and for the first three months of this year
it yielded £6OOO.
“Mars” : While chasing costs in a South
Aus. country town I had as a client a general
storekeeper whose annual turnover was a
marvel to me. And despite the huge volume
of business which flowed through his store,
bad debts were a negligible item. “How do
you manage it?” I asked him. “Every other
storekeeper I know has his books full of
outstanding accounts.” “It's like this,” lie
confided. “I attend every auction sale in
and around the district, and if I see any
of my debtors nodding to the auctioneer I
tackle ’em at once. They generally fix their
account next trip to town.”
* * * *
“A. .Tack”: Broken Hill does not regard
the t.p. system as the snake in the Garden
of Eden (B. 21/4/’27), but as a dove of
industrial peace. Amongst a total popula-
tion of 25,000 there are at least 300 motor-
cars out on hire purchase, meaning in each
case a commitment of from £7 to £l5 a
month, without calls for taxes, running costs
and upkeep. One agent alone has placed on
t.p. 246 player-pianos, which cost from £3
a month to hold, to which must be added the
cost of new rolls, and hordes of gramophones
or wireless sets are out on the same system.
Strikes aren’t any good to the folk con-
cerned, and sweet reason is expected to
brood over the conferences at the close of
the year to fix wages and conditions along
the line of lode.
* * *
“F.S.”: Melbourne will have the great
Australian air-port of the future—it will he
at Goode Island at the front gate of the
Yarra. Here the Larkin Aircraft Co. has
acquired a large area for an aerodrome, and
here it proposes to erect hangars and
machine-shops covering 43,000 sq. feet on
an original plan. The main buildings will
be clear of posts and pillars, that the un-
wieldy apparatus may be moved about with
ease. The Goode canal will be a convenience
for seaplanes, and a causeway connecting the
depot with Footseray-road will be con-
structed. The co. expects eventually to make
Goode Island the centre of a real system of
flying-transport, connected by a chain ot
lighthouses with Adelaide and Sydney, so
that night-flying can be made a regular fea-
ture of the schedule. There will be a direct
link with Sydney via Canberra, and the pro-
jected service to the Speck will start from
here and Forth will be joined via Adelaide.
It isn’t generally realised that the firm
already runs trips as regularly as motor-
’busos to Echuea, Deniliquin, Hay, Bal-
ranald. Euston, Mildura, Adelaide, Broken
Hill and Cootamundra.


r//
/
&
£
V
V '([
A times as
¥
si
C
1
/
m
y c
/,
wu/c
I
•• or 3 times as
many lights
One gallon of kerosene used in a highly efficient
kerosene lamp generates a good light—
One gallon of kerosene used in the Westinghouse
Light and Power Plant generates three times the
candle-power that it would in that efficient
kerosene lamp.
This is but one of the many guaranteed features
of the Westinghouse Plant.
If you would enjoy the advantages of greater light,
and of more lights, and of abundant electric
power for dozens of operations both inside and
outside the house, instal a Westinghouse Farm
Light and Power Plant.
The unsolicited praise of Westing-
house owners is convincing proof
of Westinghouse efficiency and de-
pendability :—
“The Westinghouse Plant you in-
stalled for me some seven months
ago has given every satisfaction. 1
have not had one minute s trouble
with it. It is very cheap to run, only
using about one tin of kerosene a
month”....
Similar letters arrive from all parts
of Australia every week. They pro-
vide testimony which you, as a
buyer, cannot overlook. Let the
Westinghouse Distributor in your
State give you complete information.
ower PLANT
WESTINGHOUSE DISTRIBUTORS:-
ELECTRIC HOME LIGHTING, LTD., 143 Castlereagh Street,
Sydney.
DOMESTIC ENGINEERS & PLUMBERS’ SUPPLIES CQ.
M. J. BATEMAN, LTD., 34 Milligan Street, Perth.
W. F. CARPENTER & CO., LTD., 16 O’Connell Street, Sydney;
PTY., LTD., 383 Latrobe Street, Melbourne, Victoria.
ELPHINSTONES, LIMITED, Adelaide Street, Brisbane,
Queensland.
MECHANICAL SUPPLIES, LIMITED, 79 Grenfell
Street, Adelaide, S.A.
w
jfWtSTIHGMOUSEA
L.V ELECTRIC JA
and at Rabaul, New Guinea (South Sea Island
Distributor).
\V. A. CROWLE, LTD., 161 Castlereagh Street, Sydney
(Factory Distributor).


Under
Royal
Warrant
Vintage 1917.
To H.M.
GeorgeV
CHAMPAGNE
Charles Heidsieck
mmwmß
Austral? sian A grants
Swift & Company Limited
SYDNEY.
CHAMPAGM*
OttrksHadsirffc
REIMS
PELLISSON
Cognac Brandy.
10 YEARS OLD.
Australasian Agents—
SWIFT & COMPANY LIMITED, Sydney.
A
tiiuiUk
8W1361 for
Reservations.
Wentworth Hotel
Church Hill, Sydney.
SITUATED in a portion of old
Sydney, just a few minutes from
the Theatres, Shopping, G.P.0.,
Circular Quay and the Railway.
Attached to the hotel is the
famous Cafe, with its gorgeous
Palm Court, a splendid Dance
Orchestra and a sparkling C-baret,
afternoon and evening.
Sydney’s Social Rendezvous.
7hp cen/ne of QuP&ns/onc/s
Soc/o/ L/fe.
*= BRISBANE
Magnificent B a 11-
room. Palm Court
and Lounges at the disposal or
guests and their friends at an
times.
Suites de Luxe —double and single
Bedrooms, with Bathrooms
attached. Hot and cold running
water and Electric Fans in every
Bedroom, and every modern con-
venience for the comfort of guests.
Tele grains and Cables: Lennon’s, Brisbane,
Telephone, Central 5180 —10 Lines.
c
A WOMAN'S
LETTER
SAY-
KAYSER
SILK OR
CHAMOISETTE
GLOVES
Now that the Royalties are safely off the
premises, Sydney is taking a breather before
diving into the maelstrom of June and July
junketings. After all, even the most per-
sistent climber must stop some time to pay
attention to the ladder in her hose, and take
steps that the stares of the cat opposite may
not light on a too-ravaged complexion and a
rheumy eye. However, like the wise athlete,
the city has kept itself in training with a
few light social exercises, and of these the
Sunshine Cabaret and the Jervis Bay ball
were the highest expression of rhythmic
achievement. In plain English, they raked
in the doubloon and the ducat, not to mention
the sovereign and the sprat, in rattling style,
the first for the new hospital for mothers and
babies in Dowling-street, the second for the
Balmain Hospital.
The Sunshine Cabarec happened at the
Ambassadors, as is the way of cabarets, in
those hours of freedom which the house-
keeper enjoys between the drying of the
lunch-dishes and the slapping of the steak
on the gas-griller in time for the family’s
evening-meal. But the Sunshine Cabaret
glittered with stars, and was bulging with
the riclily-frocked. Pretty Wynn Richmond,
of “Sunny,” twinkled most merrily of all the
stars. Her frock was white lace, the inno-
cence of its Early Victorian architecture
coyly stressed by baby-blue satin streamers.
“Buy My Violets” sang the lady bewiteh-
ingly, and proceeded to sell bunches of the
sweetness from her well-filled basket. Mrs.
Stewart Dawson, who was president of the
flutter, found a surprise waiting for her, and
cooed appropriately over the Frank Jessup
crayon sketches of herself and her jewel lord
which a grateful committee presented. Mrs.
J. C. Williamson was made a life member
of the hospital committee, thereby becoming
a sort of unofficial godmother to the babies
to be born in the new institution. Alto-
gether the party' must have gone a good step
along the road to securing the thousand
pounds which is to be transmuted into brick
and stone in a ward to be named the Duke
and Duchess of York.
Miller's Point waved a greeting to Bal-
main the other night, when that harbor
suburb turned up to dance in the Jervis
Bay. The Commonwealth liner had been
lent to the committee running a ball in aid
of the Balmain Hospital, and its great bulk
outlined by blazing electrics was one of the
Harbor attractions in the clear cold of
Friday night. Mayor of Balmain R. Thorn-
ton and G. L. Betts were presidents of an
outsize committee composed of one part plain
citizens and one part members of No. 9
Masonic Lodge; and D. Wilson and W.
Fountain shared the secretary’s job. Dr. A.
11. Hart, the hospital’s chief on the saw-
oones side, and the Masons’ State secretary
were among others who added dignity if
not glamor to the revels.
One of the polite fictions of the entertain-
ment world in this country is that concerts
start at eight. The Town Ilall was packed on
Saturday evening with people who believe
what they see in print, but they waited the
customary 20 minutes before Jascha Heifetz,
a smooth-browed, lieavy-lidded, dapper little
Buddha, tuned up his Guarnerius and rip pen
out the National Anthem. But after that
everything w T as strictly, business-like. Heifetz
and liis saturnine accompanist, Isidor Acliron,
made music that was as blithe and effort-
less as the singing of birds, but their features
were clothed in a gravity that no storm of
applause could disturb. The eyebrows of the
violinist lifted a fraction of an inch occa-
sionally as he reached the climax of a move-
ment, and that was all. But the ban ds of
him were very eloquent, and his bowing
was a joy to witness.
The big piece of the evening was Men-
delssohn’s Concerto in E Minor, the only
really serious contribution Felix the Happy
made to violin literature—lie wasn’t a great
admirer of the fiddle. Everyone knows the
Andante, which was greeted as an old friend.
Heifetz was brought back four times to make
his little solemn foreign bobs to six points of
the compass, but he left Acliron behind—
though it takes two principals to play a
concerto —and showed no disposition what-
ever to play encore numbers. The contrast
between an audience that was bubbling over
with delight and good humor and the impas-
sivity of the player was most marked. Later
in the evening, after Bach’s G-String Aria
and melodies borrowed from the pianoforte
works of Schubert and Debussy had been
given, the maestro relaxed his high-priest
pose a little and conceded a few extra num-
bers. A brilliant fireworks display was
given in the Ries “Perpetuum Mobile” and
the most difficult of the Paganini Caprices.
Heifetz is probably the' most graceful
player of his time, and a consummate master
of technique, but he lacks both the geniality
and the masculinity of Kreisler and takes
himself rather too seriously.
Heifetz received the welcome of the Musical
Association on Friday night. The speeches
were free from platitude; President Frank
Hutchens’s remarks bubbled, if not like
champagne at least like champagne cup. His
description of the local musical recital
brought a grin, but rather a wry one, to
the lips of most of the professionals present;
“After a musician has worked and practised
for years and secured all the diplomas he
can, his dream is to give a recital. And
when he can save up £3O he invariably does
so. Then, after rounding up all his friends
and giving away 30 or 40 seats, he is
quite pleased on the night of the recital if
there are 50 listeners present.” And Frank
Hutchens knows all about it., for he holds
the world’s record for appearing as “sup-
porting artist” to such stragglers.
High Commissioner Ryrie’s lady is to be
sped on her way to London by the Victorian
League. Two days before the popular old
“Brig” and his wife leave for London, the
League will run to the merry madness of a
tea-party at the Women’s Club in her honor
- —on May 30. Nor will the memory of the
Old Queen pass uneaten on May 24. An
Empire Day luncheon at Farmer's will stir
up all leaguers who care to throw five shil-
lings into the box. Lady de Chair will pre-
side.
The lunch wdiicli followed the opening of
Parliament House at Canberra was quite
modest and. though nothing more potent
than orange-juice and coffee was circulated,
reasonably convivial. It tried to be Aus-
tralian, and so far as the card was con-
cerned stumbled only over the fish. It offered
“poached schnapper.” Flow that infamy ever
got into the language nobody knows. All
that can be said is that the snapper—the
fish that snaps—was Teutonised along with
so many other things during the early- and
mid-Victorian period. But there is no earthly
reason why we should retain the absurdity,
equally un-English and un-Australian.
Nell Vere Stead, the Australian girl who
married a Duke’s son the other week at Ivim-
bolton Church, St. Neots, has a claim on the
interest of the Ma State. Her grandmother,
Mrs. Penelope Brooks Dickinson, now living
at Ainslee House. South Yarra, is the widow
of the late Samuel Dickinson, who lived at
The Hall, Croydon, and daughter of the late
Commander Robert Johnston, R.N., of
Annandale House, who is closely linked with
the history of N. S. Wales, The bridegroom
was Viscount Mandeville, heir to the Duke
of Manchester. It is claimed for Nell that
she is the first Australian girl to marry the
heir to a dukedom. But it’s a poor one.
Mrs. Philip Street, wife of the Chief Jus-
tice of the State, looks out from this Falk
photograph. Unlike Beerbohm Tree’s lady
who wrote of herself,
This is the life of little me:
I am the wife of Beerbohm Tree,
Mrs. Street is
seen in walks
whic h her
lord’s judicial
feet would fear
to tread. She
holds a record
for presiding
at charity
meetings, and
is an active
worker in the
big philan-
thropic an d
women’s move-
ments of the
city. Occasion-
ally, too, she
makes a line
spe ec li. Her
energies th i s
month are de-
voted to the
First Aiders’
a n <1 L i f e-
savers' Ball —this is for the Royal Life-
saving Society and the St. John Ambulance
—which takes place at the Palais on the
Mist; and she is to talk at the Mother and
Son dinner to be held at the Y.M.C.A. on
Saturday.
Helen Bell, whose father is one of the men
who keep their finger on the pulse of the
Sydney wool market, renounced her spinster-
hood last night at St. Philip’s. Few girls
make the renunciation at a much earlier
age; but then the pretty youngster might
point out that few girls have such an out-
standing reason. He is Dr. Stewart Brad-
ridge Studdy, youngest son of the popular
medical Studdy couple of the North Side.
The bride, who entered the old Church Hill
marriage-smithy on father’s arm, wore a
frock such as Juliet of Yerona might have
sported under similar circumstances. It was
picturesquely fashioned of beaten silver lace
and rose-petal pink romaine, the bodice and
skirt outlined with a scalloped fringe of
sequins and diamente, and the unlined train
of beaten silver lace beginning in graceful
Juliet sleeves. Sister Mrs. Bruce Webb was
matron-of-honor, and -bridesmaids Mollie
An till. Thelma Storey and Madge Burke
added to the picture. Pervenclie-blue chiffons
over shell-pink, on which forget-me-nots
bloomed beneath shell-pink felt hats, were
worn by all four —the coloring was as deli-
cate as a Watteau. The reception at the
Wentworth was so well dressed that it might
have been a Molyneux or Poiret parade.
The bride’s mother was impressive in gera-
nium-shade romaine fashioned into one of
the latest evening ensembles ; of course, the
coat show T ed the bloused back and the cape
sleeves of the moment. A scarf to envy was
worn by the groom's mother. If was of
apricot chiffon and lace w T itli a dash of
powder-blue and sprinkled with many-colored
flowers worked in beads and diamente.
The Sydney depot for the work of the
Armenian refugees at the Australian orphan-
age at Beirut is a dull little room perched
above the clatter of George-street. Last year
if suddenly turned into a magic doorway
through which Mrs. Edith Gianville, its pre-
siding genius,
stepped into
the wide, wide
world. The
odyssey started
w hen Mrs.
Gianville, pay-
ing her own
expenses, went
as delegate to
the conference
of the British
Commonwealth
League. Dur-
ing the confer-
ence her sound
com monsense
and under-
standing of the
refugee ques-
tion was re-
cognised, and
she was invited
to travel
through the
camps of Macedonia, Greece, Syria and tlie
Iloly Land, and report to tlic Fifth Coin-
mission of the League of Nations, which is
the body in charge of the “Near East’s”
human problem. Followed a journey which
but for the hopeless desolation of the' un-
happy exiles would have equalled an Arabian
Night’s romance.
But though the beam in her own eye was
bright, Mrs. Gianville did not forget the
mote that was causing the tear in her
American sister’s. Back to Geneva she
went, and reported to the Fifth Commission.
Then came one of those social dinners that
punctuate the Lake City’s serious days.
Rather to her dismay Mrs. Gianville was
asked to speak on the Near East. She
decided to describe the missions as she had
seen them. The story sounded ineffective in
her ear, but the apolause that followed was
prolonged. The next day a group of Ameri-
can post-war workers interviewed her. Would
she go across America tellina- the story of
the Armenian in exile just as she had told
it the night before? The first meeting the
Sydney woman faced was in the Pennsyl-
vania Hotel in New York. Here nearly 2000
listeners paid her the compliment of close
attention. After that Mrs. Glanvillc’s dyys
were one long speech.
Sydney greeted the lady with a loud hand
on Monday in the vestibule of the Town
Hall.
Hilda Ilungerford came from Ashfield to
St. James’s for her marriage with Bruce
Brim-ley. and the hoary old church spread
its bride-worn steps with red carpet for her
passage. The wedding garment was a shim-
mering affair of sequins, against which the
train veil broke in a foam of softest lace.
Bride’s sister Lilian and Edith Marshall
’maided in Dickensian frocks of ethereal
blue, their tresses bound with flowing tulle
veils of the same delicate tone. The feast
was spread at the Ambassadors.
The City Girls’ Amateur Sports Associa-
tion sat down the other night in the base-
ment of the Town Ilall to break bread, and
the number being 700-odd it sounded
more like the breaking of the noisiest
half of the Ten Commandments in a heavy
hailstorm accompanied by the blowing up of
the civic fastness. There were moments when
Mayor Mostyn and Town Clerk Layton, who
were guests at the feast, looked timorous, but
the intrepid leaders, Gwen Varley and Mrs.
A. Watt, were as little affected by the din as
a botanist by the chirp of the bird on the
bousrh. When they wished for silence they
conjured it effectively by blowing on a police-
man’s whistle. The annual dinner was fol-
lowed by a Council of War as to the raid of
the city during Girls’ Week, when an attempt
will be made to raise £15,000 for a sports-
ground where the girls of city business houses
will be able to keep themselves as muscle-
fit as brother. Mayor Mostyn, Ben Fuller
and Town Clerk Layton each in his own
way urged the girls to keep the flag flying
and not rest till the city gave up its treasure
to them; and then, when the talk had
ceased, the Mayoress, smiling above white
fox furs, handed out the trophies won by
the girls during the year.
Clouds of pink and white chrysanthemums
cuddled the chancel and pews of the cliapei
of Shore Grammar when Ruth Macdonald
Thomson floated up its aisle in a souffle of
white georgette and silver lace for a dialogue
with Alec Hamilton Berckclman. The two
are of Mosman, and Padre G. M. Searcy, who
held the book of words, being duly satisfied
that they were sincere if not word perfect in
their parts, the two were made one. A full
concourse of choristers were as the Voice
that Breathed, and the girl and boy friends
of the two principals occupied the front pews.
Two maids in geranium-red velvet frocks
finished off by Gretclien caps of silver lace
were a pretty finish to the pageant. Later at
the Ambassadors the bride’s mother caught
the eye in crushed strawberry chiffons top-
dressed with ermine.
A last chance of buying hitherto unsold
liilders will be given at the end of this
month. The exhibition will be # held at
Farmer’s under the direction of Adrian Feint.
The poet-artist’s little widow has gathered
up the pencil-sketches and the delicate bits
of her husband’s work that she has so far
clung to, and will offer them for sale, lie
prices will range from 20 to 1000 guineas—the
thousand-guinea picture is that most imagi-
native and dreamful example, “Dora Greek,
which stirred the critics when it recently
hung at Wembley. Syd Long and Hardy
Wilson have helped in the selection and
arranging of the works, and in all there will
be about 30 of them.
Here’s a pretty story that was once told
to this Letter by Mrs. Hilder. A year or two
after the artist’s death his widow one day
received a letter from South Australia. It
came from a well-known and not too wealthy
general practitioner. In it the doctor said
that one of his choicest possessions was a
Hilder landscape which from the time ot its
purchase had been a daily joy to him and lus
family. Considering the happiness he and
his were still getting from it, he had come to
the conclusion that the original price was
too small, and would the widow accept an
extra 25 guineas?
The Old Boys of Cranbrook chose the
ballroom of their own fine school for the
annual foregathering on Friday night. Here
were massed Iceland-poppies and golden-
brown chrysanthemums against a background
to which meaning was given by the school
banner and colors and trophies won on the
playing-fields. The Old Boys of Cranbrook
are not as yet in their sere and yellow, and
their partners at tin l dance showed quite the
peach bloom of youth. Darling Foint. I omt
piper and Woollahra were the addresses ot
most, and the wedding-ring was almost an
unknown quantity. Taffetas, georgette and
lace swirled with pretty monotony about
girlish knees, and Padre Perkins and lus
wife cast a benignant eye over all. Bat
let’s be just,; perhaps as far as the padre
was concerned the dimpled knees were blotto.
Old Sydneians are warned against mak-
ing hasty engagements for the night of July
0. It is the date sacred to their Unions
annual ball at the Wentworth.
Speaking of people in high places recalls
Hector Bolitlio, the dapper Maorilander. who
for a while ran the magazine page of the
Sydney Evening News. Hector now gives
his address as Windsor Castle, and tourists
from Greenland have been known to take the
young man busy at work in the library for
one of the princes. He is doing a job tor
the Dean of Windsor, and is m reality the
guest, of that cleric. The work m hand is
a collection of the letters of Lady Susan
Stanley, an old confidant of Queen Vic. s.
It is to be hoped that the old name of St.
Margaret’s will be passed on to the new
Maternity Hospital in Dowlmg-street: it
was the name that was given to the cottage
in Darlinghurst where in the beginning two
or three lion-hearted women helped the young
mother in unfortunate circumstances. Mayor
Mostyn’s appeal for £lO,OOO to help the new
hospital was launched on a tide of enthusiasm
at the Town Hall last week by Dr. Sydney
Morris and town-clerk Layton. The first
thousand will be raised by a swagger ball to
be held towards the end of July, and to be
known as the Lord Mayor’s: over its grown-
up committee the Mayoress will preside, while
Elaine de Chair will lead a committee of the
lambkins who gambol together for good.
This year the Veterans’ dinner will be
housed in the Garrison Drill Hall, I ictoria
Barradks. Here old stories will be told
again. One voice so often heard at former
dinners will be heard no more. It belonged
to old “Bill" Rich—lie saw Alma, Balaclava
and Inkerman —who died a week or so ago in
his 95th year.


JjARgY BRQTHER§LX&
Appropriate Gifts for Men
BA 8166.
Flat 9-carat Gold Cigarette Case,
to hold single vow of cigarettes.
Size: 31 x 2} inches.
£lO/10/-
,>A 8188.
Pair 9-carat Gold and Mothei - -
of-Pear] Studs, Pearl Centre,
Black Enamel Border. In
Case, 48/-
BA 8185.
9-carat Gold Front and
Back Collar Studs, in Case,
19/-
BA 8175.
Pair 9-carat Gold engine-
turned Links, with Blue
Enamel Greek Key Border.
In Case, £2/18/-
Five 'per cent, discount,
allowed for Cash.
BA 8164.
9-carat Gold Barrel
Match Box, 1 inch
diameter ; with steel
strike, £4/4/-
BA 8180.
Pair 15-carat Gold Links,
54/-
Hardy’s illustrated cata-
logue will be sent to any
address post free on request.
298-300
COLLINS ST„
MELBOURNE
hardy
BROTHERS LTD.
‘giUWmise oP fiwW SeweUay
13 HUNTER STREET, SYDNEY.
And at LONDON
116-JlB
QUEEN ST.,
BRISBANE.
Speed!
ss
s.
V
sw®
as
No subject in swiftest:
motion can be too
speedy for this most
rapid of cameras. A
speed range from l/15th
to l/1000th of a second
guarantees sharp defini-
tion under proper light
conditions.
Ufie ENSIGN
POPULAR” REFLEX
This British Camera is fitted with Focal Plane Shutter, and
various guaranteed lenses, is of superior finish and sturdy
construction, and at Harringtons’ Prices represents the
soundest “reflex” value.
With Cooke-Luxor
Anastigmat F/4.5
lens,
£l5
Other Models from £l6 to
£3O.
Goodwill Built on Public Confidence
Since 1889
—the House
for GOOD
Cameras
386 George Street, Sydney.
266 Collins Street, Melbourne.
16 Rundle Street, Adelaide.
93 Queen Street, Brisbane.
Also at—
Katoomba, Newcastle, Wellington (N.Z.I ami
Auckland (N.Z.).
R
in
for Accuracy
and beauty
BY reason of their accuracy
and unfailing reliability,
ELGIN Watches are se-
lected whenever exactitude is a
first necessity.
By reason of their slender grace
and beauty of design ELGIN
Watches are chosen whenever
a perfect and enduring gift is
desired to express sentiments
of friendship and love.
Thus an ELGIN awakens a
sense of certainty equally with
a true pride of possession.
OBTAINABLE FROM ALL LEADING JEWELLERS
THIS TRADE MARK
'FQf
IN THE WATCH CASE
WINTER TOURS
ARRANGED BY
THOS. COOK & SON
Railway, Steamship and Tourist Agents,
PASSAGES BOOKED BY ALL LINES.
Monthly Sailing List—Post Free.
TRAVELLERS’ CHEQUES
Issued in Sterling and Dollars.
PASSENGERS’ BAGGAGE INSURED.
ESCORTED INCLUSIVE TOURS
TO
JAVA
SIAM
MALAYA
JAPAN
Departures in June, July and August.
INDEPENDENT INCLUSIVE TOURS
to
HONOLULU - - CALIFORNIA
BRITISH COLUMBIA
SOUTH AFRICA and CEYLON.
Special Departures June, July, August, October.
CRUISES TO SOUTH SEA ISLANDS.
TOURS TO NORTH QUEENSLAND.
WINTER SPORTS
at
MT. BUFFALO (Vic.), MT. COOK (N.Z.)
FULL DETAILS IN
WINTER TOURS PROGRAMME
POST FREE FROM—
THOS. COOK & SON
MELBOURNE:
269 Collins Street.
SYDNEY:
Martin Place
(Opp. G.P.0.).
ADELAIDE:
49a Grenfell Street
AUCKLAND:
N.Z. Insurance Building,
Queen Street.
WELLINGTON;
Government Life Building
(Next G.P.0.).


Free of State Income Tax.
COMMONWEALTH LOAN
CASH
£4,250,000.
6, 11 or 16 Years.
Interest is calculated from date money is lodged, and
will be paid on 15th August, 1927, and thereafter half-
yearly.
CONVERSION
Commonwealth 6 p.c. Stock and Bonds maturing 31st
May, 1927, may be at once converted into an equal
amout of this 5J p.c. Loan.
Particulars from any Bank, State Savings Bank, Money
Order Post Office or Member of a recognised Stock
Exchange .
Commonwealth Treasury. EARLE PAGE,
May, 1927. Treasurer.
Holds More Ink
w/4
I
Lrba
fitting,.
Make Onoto your Pen—lt is a great time*
saver and the best writing instrument it is
possible to obtain, and the fact that it
holds 50 per cent, more ink than any
other self-filling pen has gained for Onoto,
the Pen, the first place.
THOMAS DE LA RUE & CO. LTD.
110 Bunhill Row. London, E.C. 1.
Representatives: Norman Baker & Longhurak
50 York Street, Sydney.
ONOTO INK—Best for all Pens.
A. SAUNDERS’
SILVER-PLATED TABLEWARE.
A. Saunders’ Sugar Basin, Pure Silver*
plated Al Quality, 30 /•
A. Saunders’ Dessert Stand, Pure Silver-plated,
A 1 Quality, £4/10/-
A. Saunders’ Flower Stand, Detachable Tubes, Pure Silver-plated,
A 1 quality, £5.
A. Saunders’ Cut-Glass Butter
Dish, Silver-plated Stand and
Knife, 40/-
k. Saunders’ Teapot, Pure Silver-plated, A 1
Quality, 45/-
All; SENT POST FREE —WRITE FOR CATALOGUE.
A. SAUNDERS,
Watchmaker —Jeweller—Optician,
805-813 GEORGE STREET (opposite Railway Station), SYDNEY.
British Made
£lecirical Appliances
S\\
s Hk%
M$
*s%i
lif.
i
eni
>P-
*>
?<£
m
m
m
Wi
n
i
m
€
%
mui% v
im
m
'-T~
3§SS»
'm
T--m
Hi
ATSm
To Help You with those
Household Tasks
THE VACUUM CLEANER
The Vacuum Cleaner is the latest addition to
the “MAGNET” range of domestic appliances,
and possesses qualities, both in design and wor-c -
-manship, which mark a definite advance in
vacuum cleaner construction. It is so wonder-
fully easy to use —simply a turn of the switch
and the cleaner instantly commences operating,
sucking up all dust, dirt and litter without an>
effort of yours —just a backward and forward
movement, and at so little cost less than a
halfpenny an hour. Supplied complete with
accessories.
Write for an illustrated folder, or, better still, call
and see the “MAGNET" Gleaner demonstrated.
THE IRON
All the tiring work of ironing day has been
done away with by the “MAGNET ’ Electric
Iron with its “Six Points of Ironing Satisfac-
tion.” As in the manufacture of all “MAGNET
domestic appliances, economy in current con-
sumption, mechanical strength and ease °
operation have been made special features o
the “MAGNET” Iron.
It is finished throughout in heavy nickel-plate;
has a special thumb grip and hand rest, unbreak-
able connector, mica insulator, terminals with
protecting shield, and three yards of flexib e
cord which complies with the Fire Underwriters
Regulations. Guaranteed for three years.
British General Electric Co. Ltd.
Magnet House,
154-56 Clarence Street, Sydney,
Obtainable from all Leading Electrical Dealers\
REGISTERED
TRADE MARK,


Legal Notices.
'J'O the Brothers, Sisters, Uncles,. Aunts,
Nephews and Nieces of SABAH
FRANCES COURTNEY (nee Duke), who
died intestate at Napier, in New Zealand, on
the 20tli March, 1916, and to all persons
claiming by, through or under them.
PURSUANT to an Order made on the
Ist April, 1927, by a Judge of the Supreme
Court of New Zealand you are hereby called
upon to send in to the undersigned on or
before the Ist November, 1927, your claims to
the estate of the abovenamed deceased, failing
which the said estate will be distributed
amongst those .entitled thereto disregarding
your claims.
Dated at Wellington this Ist day of April
1927.
G. G. ROSE.
Solicitor to the Public Trust .Office,
Wellington, New Zealand.
n
n
4k x
t
**
Fruit S Walnut Cake
A cake dainty of uurivallec delicious
ness.
Its choice ingredients include walnuts
and a rich assortment of fruits such as
cherries, sultanas, and best quality
citron peel.
The unique circular shape
permits of easy cutting with-
out waste.
In Attractively-
Ornamented Tins
of 31b., 41b., 51b.
All Grocers.
SYDNEY.
The Finest Restaurant and Dance
Rer.dezvous in Australasia.
PATRONAGE CONTINUALLY INCREASING.
Capacity : Dining and Supper Dances up to 1000.
For AVedding Receptions, Banquets, Dining and
Supper Dances, inquiries to Manager.
Mon., Tiles., AVed., Fri., Dining de Luxe. 7.30,
10/6; Suppers, 10.30, 6/6. A’alue and satis-
faction without equal. No charge for three
hours’ dancing on satin-smooth spring floors—
a new thrill of real delight.
Thurs. and Sat. I.ate Gala Nights. Continental
Dinner from 7.30, 21/-. Suppers, 10.30. ,12/fi.
This evening in London costs £2/2/- upwards!
PEERLESS ORCHESTRA OF TEN.
Bewitching Cabaret, afternoons and evenings.
Delightful Afternoon Tens, 3.30 to 6.30, 5/.
Two hours’ entertainment of Sheer Delight.
Order AVines before 6 p.m. Ring M. 5666.
Melbourne
Chatter
Buckley's
Elizabethan
Tea 'Rooms
R[?] C[?] 800[?] [?]
Buckley [?] Nunn [?]
[?]
The Renown crept out of port in a grey
wintry fog on Thursday morning, and the
thousands who thronged the wharves and
cheered never glimpsed the Yorks, who had
not then arisen. The return of the couple
from Canberra, when the Duke defied official-
dom and kept his word to the soldiers of
Seymour by stopping the train, made his-
tory for the district. Duchess Betty showed
she had a mind of her own, too, when she
insisted that a farewell motor-run should be
made in South and Port Melbourne. It
isn’t our swellest district, but many gifts
and posies found their way to the royal lap.
As the car slowly wended its way through
the dense crowds the Duchess endeavored to
let Press representatives see same of the
inscriptions, and when a policeman pushed
the reporters away she intervened very
gently with “In a moment. They have not
finished yet.”
We're still talking about the Canberra
business. Motor-service stations were laid
on the route from Melbourne to the capital
with supplies for 5000 cars, but officialdom
had put so many stymies on the course that
only a hundred or so made the journey—
not as many as pass along every day in
the Easter and Christmas holidays. But,,
even so, there was difficulty in getting hotel
accommodation at ’Berra. One presswoman
found a bed, but had to tramp two miles
for meals. Another feminine visitor was
turned out of three hotels in two days, and
occupied four rooms in 48 hours.
An inseparable trio at the Canberra cele-
brations were the Barton and Reid dames
and Mrs. Deakin. The political differences
of the past have long been forgotten by these
ladies. Mrs. Deakin brought the Bible on
which her husband took the oath of allegi-
ance at the inauguration of the Common-
wealth in 1901, to get Albert of York’s signa-
ture. He signed under George V., who put
his there when he was Duke of York.
"A.G.M.” from London :
The Prince of Wales was very sympathetic to
Lord and Lady Forster at the unveiling of the
memorial to their son Alfred at the Church of
Toe H, All Hallows, Barking. The memorial
which shows the recumbent figure of young Forster,
dees not bear his name, and is intended in a general
way as a tribute to all generous youths who made
the supreme sacrifice in the Great War. On the base
are the words: “They shall grow not old as we
that are left grow old. Age shall not weary them
nor the years condemn.” During the brief unveiling
ceremony Lord Forster held the hand of his wife,
who with difficulty restrained her emotion.
On Thursday night St. Ivilda Town Hall
wore crimson and black for the annual dance
of Old Xaverians and their friends. The hop
drew a large and merry crowd, mainly of
the younger set. President Cook, of the
Old Xaverians’ Association, was there with
Mrs. Cook, whose Wedgwood-blue frock had
a glimmer of crystal. Mrs. Gerald Crosbie
sported apparel of mushroom-pink combined
with periwinkle-blue; Mrs. Louis Moore
chose a frock of burnt orange hue, with
embroidery of pearl beads; and Valerie Ilen-
nessy’s gown was of China-blue satin with
a deep border of white, bearing the willow
pattern picked out in lacquer-red and gold.
Sister Lurline’s frock of flesh tint had a
dangling crystal fringe, Girlie O’Sullivan’s
blue gown had applique of gilded roses, and
pink roses were scattered over the white
taffeta raiment of Mollie Schrader.
Society has taken up Animal Week
enthusiastically. There will be a number of
smart functions to collect funds for the
Society for the Protection of Animals and
its side-shows, the Rest Home for Horses
and the Home for Lost Dogs. Mrs. Norman
Brookes lent her ballroom for a meeting on
Thursday morning, at which Lady Somers
took the chair. A ball at the Embassy
on July 5; a fancy-dress dance for children;
a series of small bridge parties; and the
young folks’ dance annually organised for
the S.P.A. by Miss Montgomery and her sis-
ter, Mrs. Lort Smith, figure on the schedule.
Mrs. Frank Andrew is engineering a theatri-
cal show at Christ Church Hall, South
Yarra, on June 25. for which Mrs. F. Apperly
will put on a performance of “Belinda.”
Flower Day, on which money-boxes were
clanked for the Lord Mayor’s fund, turned out
Shower Day. Eight hundred matrons and
maids went a-begging in the chill breeze, and
took with them as bait a most tempting array
of autumn flowers. Flower day originated
two years ago with the Flower-growers’
Association as a means of raising funds for
metropolitan hospitals and charities. Chry-
santhemums. violets and roses, representing the
autumn, spring arid summer of less-favored
lands, were amongst the wares of the flower-
sellers, and there were stalls where home-
made things to eat were on sale. When the
royal train glided into Spencer-street station
on its return from Canberra, Mayoress Morel!
was waiting with a bunch of golden-brown
pansies, of a variety just evolved, for the
Duchess, and begged that they should receive
a royal christening. So the King’s daughter-
in-law raised them to the Peerage with the
title “Duchess of York.” A posy of huge
violets accompanied the gift of pansies.
The Diamond Jubilee Fair, run by the
Royal Victorian Institute for the Blind,
added £2OOO to the furnishing fund of the
just-built hostel for blind women workers.
Subscriptions from the Wilson, Syme, Felton
and Griffiths trusts have done the rest, and
opening day will find the hostel furnished
without debt. Mrs. James Angus, who worked
hard for the fair, has been appointed presi-
dent of a women’s auxiliary which will watch
over the comfort of inmates.
The Women’s Hospital had a red-letter day
when Lady Somers took a pair of gold scis-
sors and cut a silken cord stretched across
the entrance to the new Gillott wing. Three
wards, an operating theatre and X-ray de-
partment have been added, and the wing has
been named in recognition of a gift of £20,000
from the Samuel Gillott estate. The wards
have been named after Mrs. A. V. Hiskens,
the present president, who is off this week
for a trip to Europe, and the two former
heads of the committee, Mrs. George Lan-
gridge and Mrs. Brodie Ainslie. The
operating-theatre bears a name that records
the help given by the Moonee Valley Racing
Club.
Both the Yorks are fond of reading, and
parcels of books are being sent out to them
regularly from England. The Duke goes
in for heavy stuff —he’s the most serious
member of the family—while the Duchess
numbers among her favorites all of Kipling,
the poems of poor, mad William Blake and
the Diary of Pepys. She is a good pianist,
with a taste for light and popular music.
Dr. Maloney., the little friend of all the
world, is proudly waving a letter he lias
received from the Duchess of York, the
final paragraph of which reads : “I am deeply
interested to hear of the magnificent courage
of Miss Florrie Hodges, which is typical of
the spirit animating the people of Aus-
tralia.” The doctor had presented to H.R.11.
a series of souvenir photos and a gramo-
phone record describing the bravery of the
little bush-fire heroine. Photos similar to
those presented to the Queen and the Duchess
are still available, and will be exchanged for
a small donation to the fund which was
promoted in Victoria and N. S. Wales to
suitably reward the bush-girl’s heroism.
Mrs. C. L. Fisher (Oath. Mcßride that
was) is becoming one of England’s expert
women motorists. Since the late Peter Mc-
Bride transplanted _ his family to London,
on becoming Victoria’s Agent-General. Mrs.
Mcßride has been missed, but Australians
abroad find an open door and a cheery wel-
come at her cosy house in Wimbledon. Cap-
tain Fisher, after being demobbed, turned
his attention to the motor industry, and his
wife has taken it up as her pet hobby.
The lady of the decorations is Lilian
Avice Foster—good Australian. When the
world went
b e r s e r k she
was in Lon-
don on a holi-
day. She
started doing
her bit right
a way, an d
after a spell
of work in
Blighty
crossed to
Normandy as
matron of a
hospital fo r
F rench sol-
diers run by
several of Bri-
tain’s titled
' dames. Later
she beca m e
Senior Com-
mandant o f
General Ser-
vice V.A.Ds.
in France and was mentioned in despatches
by Haig. After that she labored among refu-
gees in out-of-the-way corners of the Levant.
She visited harems,' saw dancing dervishes
and was bailed up b.v brigands. She cun
wear the 1914, General Service and Victory
medals and the Russian decorations of St.
Stanislaus and St. Anne. Miss Foster, who
is now secretary of the welfare and wel-
come section of the New Settlers’ League, is
a connection of Governor La Trobe. Her
father, a cousin of his Ex., was a police
magistrate in the days when the Kelly gang
flaurished. The picture is by Lafayette.
Agnes Murphy’s note from Loudon ;
When the Queen visited the Mayfair Hotel, erected
on the site; of Devonshire House, where royalty used
to be entertained, she shook hands with the chef!
But the jovial freedom of the Prince of Wales is
inducing liis august parents to do many things
they would not have dreamt of blit for the com-
pelling force of his embarrassing unconventionality.
Lord Charles Hope, son of Australia’s first
Governor-General, whose second name is Melbourne,
in which city he was born, has for some time been
making experiments in occult sciences at his apart-
ment in St. James’s Court. Lord Charles wishes to
be known at present merely as an investigator; and
meanwhile his research does not preclude his interest
in lighter diversions. At Marie Tempest’s “London 1
Pride” matinee for the Save the Children Fund,
Lord Charles, who is a robust edition of his father,
will appear in the pageant “Great Lovers of
Romance,” his role being that of Paris to the
Helen of pretty Gladys Cooper. Her production,
“The Letter,” at the Playhouse, has just been
favored with the presence of the King and Queen
and other members of the Royal family.
Many Australians have already joined in a great
exodus from the Freiich Riviera; they’re driven away
by exorbitant prices and the dour attitude of the
French traders towards all foreigners, especially
those using the English tongue. The Italian towns
just across the frontier have as a result attracted
large numbers of sun-seekers. The overflow has
been further encouraged bv the abolition of all Gov-
ernment taxes on the hotel bills of the visitors.
The French Riviera is having the worst season for-
mally years, and elaborately planned entertainments
at some of the splendid hotels at Cannes, Nice and
Monte Carlo have attracted very few guests. The
charge of a guinea for flowers (not ordered) on the
luncheon- or dinner-table lias led to some lively
scenes at exclusive caravanserais.
The Rajah and Ranee of Pudukota, who have been
very prominent in all the Riviera festivities at
Cannes, have rented young Lord Glenconner’s flat
in Sloane-street for the London season. In the
interim they have had a busy time in Paris, where
in between their social engagements the Rajah has
greatly interested himself in the selection of his
wife’s gowns and hats.
The wedding of the week was that of Lady
Ankeret Howard, sister of the Earl of Carlisle, and
sister-in-law of one of Australia's finest products.
Professor Gilbert Murray, to William Jackson, of
Leighton Court, Cheshire. As bride and bridegroom
are both lawyers, they chose the Temple Church,
which is rarely graced by such an array of nobility.
The Carlisle family, the Howards, are noted for the
variety of their political opinions, which range from
true-blue Tory to roseate Radical. Lady Ankeret’s
marriage was touched by a new note, the wearing
of green. Her principal grown-up bridesmaid was
Maeve de Markieviez, daughter of the Irish Republi-
can leader. The bride’s nephew, Lord Morpeth,
and all the bridesmaids were dressed in emerald
green, and the honeymoon is being spent in Ireland.
Husband and wife are both handsome and gifted,
and celebrated their engagement with George Coates
and Dora Meeson, who plighted their troth in Paris
on the same day.
Mrs. Willoughby Rodman from Los
Angeles, an indefatigable worker for public
playgrounds in lier own land, talked about
her experiences at the McPherson College the
other day. The officially dry Republic is
spending thousands of dollars on play-
grounds, to keep young, people out of the
streets, and at Los Angeles orchestral con-
certs are a feature, though the public has
to pay to hear them. The organising of
games in these grounds is in the hands of
trained specialists, who go through a three
years’ course. Mrs. Rodman has stimulated
renewed interest in our own Playgrounds
Association.
This year’s arrivals will include the Grey-
Egerton lady and her baronet. India will
be their first port of call. A visit is owing
to daughter Phyllis Power on her acreage
near Albury, and to Mrs. St. Ledger Robin-
son.
The E.S.U. has gone the way of all Anglo-
Saxons, and succumbed to bridge. The
solemn rites will be performed on the first
and third Tuesdays.
Peter Gawthorn, who is in this city as
advocate of a scheme to open the doors of
art to all students, is known in London as
an actor and author. In stage-life he grew
into prominence \\/ith Ellen Terry, and was
associated with the Tree management. His
wife, who has accompanied him. belongs to
a South African family. Her late dad,
George Siddle, was a friend of Cecil Rhodes.
“La Masque Dramatique,” founded last
year, is an association of young people who
write and produce their own plays. At the
Playhouse on the 23rd the little company
will give a double bill —“The Burglar,” by
Loveday Hills, as a curtain-raiser, and a
three-act play. “The Bushwhackers.” by
Beryl Bissett. The author will take the lead-
ing rftle in each case. Profits, if any. will
go to the Victorian Association of Creches.
The hon. organiser is Ervina Addison, with
Eula Ford as hon. secretary.
Muriel Starr replaced “The Goldfish” with
“Cornered,” a Yankee comedy-drama, at
the Princess on Saturday night. In
her speech after the last curtain the
actress-man a e-er. who had to neer over
a high bank of blossoms, announced it
was 14 years to the day since she made
her first appearance in Melbourne in “Within
the Law.” The clothes in “Cornered” are
well chosen. In the dual capacity of crimi-
nal and society-girl Miss Starr’s garments
include a black chiffon velvet frock with deep
bordering in embroidery of gold. A trim
blafck turnout in which hat and dress are
relieved with white marks the coming of
repentance. An evening wrap, all gold, with
some floral figuring, covers a dainty frock of
periwinkle-blue with beaded poppy design
and a glimmer of gold beneath and festoons
of silver and green beads upon a paler green
surface embellish another party gown. Mil-
dred C.ottell wears black bead-besprinkled
raiment, and Nelly Dennes goes slumming
in a glistening petunia frock and attractive
cloak. Major White and his life-partner, the
Percy Blackbourns. the James Angus couple,
Mr. and Mrs. Walter Moore, and Mrs.
McColough from Geelong were first-nighters.
This week the big room of the Arts and
Crafts Society is laid out as a garden in
order to show 7
off the pot-
tery made by
Michael O’Con-
nell, who spe-
cial is e s in
swanky embel-
lishments for
lawns and flow-
er-beds. O’Con-
nell came here
after the war
to be a farmer
bold, but found
brush and spa-
tula more con-
genial tools
than spade and
plough. II e
held an exhibi-
tion or two of
water - colors
and miniatures
and then found
his metier in
the fashioning of jardinieres, sun-dials and
fountains. • O’Connell’s pieces are all indi-
vidual creations, hand-worked in fine cement,
and they make a pleasant and unusual sort
of show. Edna Walling designed the garden
that enshrines the exhibits. Mrs. Tainch's
snapshot of the potter amid his pots snuggles
against this paragraph.
Dr. Georgina Sweet and her lawyer friend,
Flos Greig, lately returned from a long
sojourn abroad, have had a hectic round of
tea-parties. The Lyceum Club members
rolled up in strength the other afternoon to
clink spoons with the erstwhile exiles and
to listen to tales of travels in the Orient.
Nell Stead’s marriage is still a topic of
conversation. Her last social appearance, in
Melbourne was at the Sargood wedding,
where she was frocked as usual to perfection.
She is dark-eyed with a complexion like a
blush-rose, rather shy and reserved for this
generation. The romance started abroad last
year in Colombo, where Nell and sister
Erin went to recuperate after their mother’s
death. It wasn’t a hurried decision. She
asked for time to consider Viscount Mande-
ville’s proposal. The sisters returned home,
settled their affairs, and again crossed the
ocean, when a renewed proposal resulted in
marriage.
To help the Victorian Operatic Society to
produce “Florodora” early in August Mrs.
Norman Churton has handed over her Toorak
home for bridge and dancing on Saturday
evening. A committee headed by Frances
Lea has matters well in train.
Portia Geach, who lately returned from a
two years’ stay in U.S.A., was given a wel-
coming hand and a cup of tea by the House-
waves’ Association. She spoke enthusiasti-
cally of the Federation of Women’s Clubs in
America. Mrs. Britomarte James invited a
number of local presswomen to take tea at
the Lyceum Club with Miss Geach the next
afternoon, and there was talk of many things.
Valerie Purves is having the time of her
young life abroad. From Milan the pretty
lass writes that she was at the opening of
the operatic season at La Scala, and heard
Toti dal Monte in “Rigoletto.” And she
saw- the League of Nations Assembly in
session at Geneva.
Mrs. Peter Lynch, in frock and millinery
a chanel red, poured tea at the Oriental in
honor of Mrs. Frank Tait, who has been
abroad. The guest-of-honor, whose blue
attire was surmounted by a nut-brown hat,
was handed a posy of greeting.
Social writers had a bad time of it all
the time the Yorks were in Victoria. An
eleventh-hour distribution of tickets was the
lot of most newspaper offices in the city, and
the brass-liats who ran things seemed to
regard the recording angels as the very devil.
Animal Week, which is an annual
shaking of collection-boxes in aid of such
institution as the Rest Home for Horses
and the Lost Dogs’ Home, will start on
June 28. Mrs. Harry Gullett held a meet-
ing to talk about it over a cup of tea at
her Toorak home last week. Mrs. Norman
Brookes, who presided, was elected presi-
dent of the committee. Mrs. C. Lort Smith
and Mrs. Frank Andrew of the S.P.C.A.
and Mrs. Arthur Payne, representing the
bow-wows, are the prime movers. A dance
in aid of the animals will be held at the
Embassy on July 5. Mrs. Currie Garduer
is secretary.


W. JNO. BAKER
Presentation
Cabinet
Ill
Polished Rosewood Cabinet,
size 1 7in. x 1 3in., sin. high,
containing W. Jno. Baker Stain-
less Steel Cutlery and Silver
Plate.
6 Stainless Steel Table Knives.
(> Stainless Steel Dessert Knives.
1 Fair Stainless Steel Meat Carvers.
1 Sharpening Steel.
2 Table Spoons.
6 Soup Spoons.
6 Table Forks.
6 Dessert Forks.
6 Dessert Spoons.
6 Tea Spoons.
6 Spoons.
2 Salt Spoons.
Spoons and Forks
Plated with Sterling-
Silver on Fine, Hard
White Metal,
B Quality, £l3/157-
Carriage Extra.
W. JNO. BAKER,
3 HUNTER STREET, SYDNEY.
“The Woman’s Mirror”
Published every Tuesday
PRICE 3d.
It deals with every subject of
interest to women.
By Road and Rail
to the Shell Pump
1
Nr
m
H4[
<< -Mg
- L r l — l ~: i txt/
GJ
CP B
-*a,- f 3 * 9 ,
o=a
*3
i#®
IU in Ullnlllillllillir
iS:
E 2
J
4/>
S"
* m
y
THE Shell Bulk Distribution System covers every
State of the Commonwealth. From the great
Installations in the coaStal cities Rail Tank Cars and
Road Wagons are constantly on the move, supplying
the needs of town and country The Shell Guarantee
“One Standard quality every where ” —is rigidly main-
tained. This means that, no matter where you are, you
can pull up at the Shell Pump in perfect confidence
m
Remember —
Shell Pumps are painted
Red : Yellow : Black
and bear the Guaranteed
Discs.
The Accepted Criterion
of Quality and Service
I HE BRITISH IMPERIAL OIL COMPANY LIMITED
Throughout Australia and New Zealand
I
z
m
:■
VJ
■
Rapid Capstan Lathe Work
For the past 25 years we have specialised in the equipment of
Capstan Lathes for producing Engineering Tools.
The Line Drawing shows a Gunmetal Casting, which, with the
exception of the hexagonal head and large recesses, has to be
machined all over. The Tolerances are .002 in. on all
diameters, bores and threads, except the large external
diameter, which is unimportant.
With the lay-out shown in the illustration the machining time
is two minutes each.
We shall be pleased to quote for machines and equipment,
and to give guarantees of production on receipt of full particu-
lars of work required.
The Machine can also be supplied with Drawn-in Collet Chuck
for Bar Work.
Alfred Herbert
( Australasia), Limited,
503-505 Kent Street, Sydney.
City To W9.° 10110. Telegrams: LATHE.
Branch Office, Melbourne.
Hawaii Fine Anytime
Honolulu —Paradise of the Pacific the year'
round playground
Thirteen days out from Sydney Heads, after de'
lightful calls at Suva (Fiji) and Pago Pago (Samoa).
The Hawaiian Islands lift their crests of misty jade
above a sparkling sea —the orange moon floods Manoa
Valley with its mystic spell—the long combers cream'
ins on Waikiki’s reef race shoreward.
Here every sport is at its best,
swimming in limpid waters, outrigger
riding and surfboard shooting, golf,
tennis, polo, riding, motoring through
scenery of matchless charm.
Go now to Honolulu (Hawaii) and
let the memory of at least one happy
voyage to “the loveliest spot on earth’’
remain as a treasured memory for'
ever in your heart. The Royal Ha'
waiian, The Moana, The Seaside and
The Alexander Young Hotels offer a
range of accommodation to suit every'
one.
Sailings from Sydney every three
weeks by the S.S. “SONOMA”,
“SIERRA”, and “VENTURA.”
Write for descriptive literature and
special excursion rates.
. W A
ffl
\r mt
a m
f4T
1 i
A).
mmm
ii
1C
MATSON NAVIGATION CO., Owners and Operators
12 Bridge Street, Sydney. in. 119 King
Local Agents: Mcllwraith McEacharn Ltd.. 94-96 William St. Melbourne. I‘ 7 * Jrjib(jne
William St., Adelaide; Fremantle, Perth and Albany; Howard Smith Limit ea,


IS VOUR CAR SUFFERING FROM
PETROI CONSUMPTION?
\k
If so, effect an instant cure with a
ZENITH Carburetter. Save pounds
on running cost.
Other complaints easily cured with the ZENITH
Carburetter are bad starting, poor acceleration and
feebleness on hills. In all cases the ZENITH puts
new vigour into the engine, making it its real self,
healthy and happy !
Special models obtainable for all popular cars,
such as Morris, Ford, etc., which can be fitted
quickly by any mechanic.
7EWITH>
CARBURETTER
Write for a cotn) of the ZENITH Booklet to
BENNETT & WOOD, LTD Sydney
ALEXANDER MAIR & CO. PTY., LTD. .. Melbourne
MARTIN WILSON BROS., Ltd. Brisbane
A. G. HEALING & CO. PTY., LTD Adelaide
HARRIS SCARFE & SANDOVER, Ltd Perth
ZENITH CARBURETTER CO., LTD.,
40, Newman Street, LONDON, W.l, England.
FIT IT SET IT —THEN FORGET IT.
TO ADa MAfIK
AS
FINE AS FINE CHINA CAN
BE/
mi iwsi 11 i 11 ivsgii' i i ii i i 1 ! ' 1
’.J5' '••••!?]?
mm
, * '% 3MHB
i®#il#lSti»
m
.. :
mm
m
7 >
vgm
*'T§
IHH;
.
BHPnpHH
KSESSfe:
SsS
■
v,.‘ J
ir
o.' ■..;
0\
fe
ftTTv/EU*
Mugs. 1/8: Teacup and Saucer, 2/3; Plates, 1/8 and 1/10;
Horns, with handles, 2/6, 2/9; Baby Plates, round or oval, 2/9.
If you liavc children of your own. or if you are a
favorite aunt or uncle, this Shelley Nursery China
makes a delightful surprise present for play-room
meals. It's strong and sturdy and each piece has a
jolly design by Mabel Lucie Attwell. This china has
been made specially for kiddies. Wby not buy a piece
and see how baby likes it? We are confident you will
come back for more. It is quite inexpensive, too —
and lasts well.
Obtainable from all high-class stores and pottery
dealers: if any difficulty write for name of nearest
stockist to our Wholesale Representatives:
T.W HEATH & CO..
Zy mi ted
252 , Clarence St. Sydney & Commerce House, (Melbourne*
CHINA
la
SHOE STORI
h ~ for Men who Care
W53
\
%
/
Men's Hauannaln
Calf Shoe, circular
vamp, mock caps ~
calf lined; also iw
tan, calf and patent
colt.
POST FREE
249 PITT ST OppJa.ttersa.lVi Club -
The Little Sisters
Lennon's Hotel
BRISBANE
The Centre of Queensland's
Distinguished Social Life!
QUEENSLAND.
Brisbane.
Barbara Sisley produced “Dr. Knock” for
the Repertory Society with success, George
Eaton taking the part of the Doctor and
Nell Douglas Graham doing very well indeed
as the lodging-house keeper. The rats, which
have so often undisputed possession of the
empty Theatre Royal, squeaked passionately
in between acts. However, the large gather-
ing was complacent and included the very
smartest of our smart set.
To Lorna Forbes and the Allan Wilkies
the Shakspearean Society, wliicji Farmer
Whyte founded here, gave a party at Rowe’s.
Silver bowls of roses and fern decked the
tables, and A. D. Graham, Mrs. Henry Han-
cock and Mary Sydes received. Mrs. Han-
cock was in Margot lace over mauve, Mary
Sydes in floral cr§pe do Chine, Miss Hunter-
Watts in green and mastic, and Lorna
Forbes in fawn, with a pink hat.
The Grammar Old Girls’ Association gave
a dance midst poinsettia and palms in the
assembly hall at the school. Vases of pink
and red roses dressed the supper tables.
Traycloths have been spread for Evelyn
Barry and bridge and mali-jongg festas
arranged for her farewell to bachelor days.
She is now Tom Gamin’s bride.
The J. S. Badgers are back from U.S.A.
Mrs. W. J. Collin was one of those to wel-
come them with tea and competitions at
Rhondda, New Farm. Scarlet poinsettia
warmed up the scenery. Mrs. Collin wore
black with Oriental broideries, and Mrs.
Badger was in moss-green.
At the Apollos’ concert in the Exhibition
Building Ella Jack, who soloed, wore cycla-
men georgette and had a good many bou-
quets handed up. There was a big audience,
and the Lennons attended.
At Mrs. Frank Corrie’s home the annual
display of the Brisbane Needlework Guild
was held. Exhibits ranging from baby-
clothes to men’s, pyjamas were piled on the
verandahs, and sheets, pillow slips and towels
were added for the benefit of charitable
homes and soldiers’ settlements. Mrs.
liuybers, Cecile Pritchard and Mrs. P. J.
Symes, who recited, gave an entertainment.
At St. Joseph’s, Nambour. Captain J. R.
Bryde, Townsville, took Winifred Crosby for
better and worse. She wore a French model
of white voile and Honiton. Isabel Crosby
’maided in apple-green.
At St. Stephen’s, Joseph Wyer, of Cairns,
married pretty Elvira Knight-Corkran,
The bride wore pearl bridal satin made in
early Victorian style. She wore also the
blue ribbon of the children of Mary, and
carried St. Joseph’s lilies. Marie and Nea
Knight-Corkran ’maided in primrose.
WE STRATA A.
Perth.
Brilliant blue skies and dazzling sunshine
gave warm welcome to golfers who visited
South Perth links on. film opening day.
Sports skirts were checked and striped in
vivid orange, bottle-green and gay purples,
and woollen jackets gave place to silk shirt
jumpers. Mrs. Evans, the president, wel-
comed her Ex., who drove over in a brand-
new sedan to turn a key. Tea was poured
in the flower-filled luncheon-room at the club-
house and Mrs. Evans reserved a part of
her speech to welcome back Mrs. Ross Har-
wood. Miss ,May Parkes and Mrs. Bob
Cameron, each with a card of net 30, tied
for the competition, and Mrs. Cameron won
the women’s long drive. Mrs. McCubbing
was the best approacher, the test being
through a fearsome clump of trees. Lady
Campion, in summery-white, had a try for
the Clock Golf prizes. The winners were
Mrs. Hardwick, Mrs. R. C. Dickson and
Dr. Moir. Among others who swung hope-
ful clubs were Mrs. Hilton Wood, Mrs. Cum-
mins, Violet Holmes, Molly Ross, Miss Has-
kell and Mrs. Roy Mitchell. Secretary
Mildred McDougall, in a cedar, and captain
Mrs. Norman Temperley. in a blue jersey,
capably engineered the afternoon.
Phyllis Browning-Turner, Westralia’s con-
tralto, has been doing big things in England.
Taking up a
two-years’ cx-
liibition
awarded he r
by the Asso-
ciated Board
of It.A.M. and
R.C.M., sli e
won such suc-
cesses at the
K.A.M., Lon-
don, that the
board offered
her a further
year’s free tui-
tion. During
the first two
years she bag-
ged 10 medals
and the Sain-
ton - Dolby
prize at the
It.A.M. She
also walked off
with the Mad-
:ime Marion Glass Silver Cup from over 50
competitors at tile Bristol eisteddfod last,
.year and recently won the silver cup at the
Stratford Musical Festival.
Young and old flocked to secure a vantage
spot in King’s Park, parking-space on
Mount’s Bay-road, or finger-hold on the roof
of a crowded motor-launch to watch the
boatrace. Anything that would float was
filled with cheering humanity, and the yells,
whistles and honk-lionks when 0.8. C. came
out head of the river made the grey-blue
waters of the Swan feel young again. High
School won the Old Bovs’ race from Guild-
ford Grammar amid more cheers. In the
evening the youngest set put on its prettiest
frills to dance at a High School hop.
Two one-time Australian Agents-General
have had occasion to say “Bless you, my
children.” Tom Robinson, who represented
Queensland in London, has given his
daughter Olive to James Rodney, son of
Newton Moore, our own ex-A.G.
TASMANIA.
Hobart.'
The King's Cup race on the Derwent was
a washout in a very literal sense for most
of the competing crews, four out of the six
boats being swamped. Three thousand shiver-
ing spectators waited—some of them from
1 p.m. till after s—and the race of the day
ended in twilight. It was an hour and a
half late in starting. W.A. had a good win.
and some of the others had very bad luck.
Next day the visiting crews were taken
inland by the Tasmanian Rowing Ass., to
get them as far out of sight of the Derwent
as possible, no doubt, and spent a day at
Russell Falls.
The Commem. procession this year was
intended to be quite shocking, and nearly
succeeded. There was a burlesque funeral,
a parody of the Yorks and an exhibition
of undies. The time-honored crayfish and
beer-bottle also had an outing.
Synod week ended on a social note with
a garden-party at Bishopscourt. Fortunately
the day was fine and dry, so it was a garden
party. The Bishop and Mrs. Hay received
just inside the gates, and about 200 guests,
mostly clergy and their relations, wandered
whithersoever they listed, and ate and drank
to the strains of Mrs. Sheppard’s orchestra.
The Hay girls and their friends were kept
busy with the commissariat.
This is Olive Wilton, the producer of
plays for our newly-pledged Repertory The-
atre. which gave Galsworthy's “Loyalties ’ to
crowded houses
for three nights
this month.
Miss Wilton
has run a school
o f dramatic
art for some
yea rs in
Hobart, an d
among other
tilings p r o-
duced A. A.
Milne's “Make
Relieve” for
I lie first time
this side of the
line. A photo-
graph of the
east was sent
to the author.
Before coming
to Tassie, Miss
Wilton had a
d ram atic career
of her own in
England, where sne acted with Fred Terry,
and in Australia with Emelie Polini and
others.
Eileen Chancellor, accompanied by her
mother and sister, has gone to Sydney to,
marry Captain Stop, at present on the staff
of the Administrator of Norfolk Island,
where the newly-weds will make their home.
Hobart will miss her, for. as well as being
a social light, she is a keen Girl Guide officer,
with the rank of District Captain, and a
good golfer. Her young friends have been
giving her parties for the past, few weeks.
Lady Hutson, whose husband is the Gov-
ernor of Fiji and High Commissioner for
the Western Pacific, was a passenger by
the Maloja. Sir Eyre Hutson retires next
year, and his lady precedes him on a visit
to the Cold Country.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA.
Adelaide.
Their Exes, and daughter, bringing West-
ralia's Governor with them, got back from
Canberra in time for Lady Bridges to at
the Pageant of Learning staged by the Uni-
versity Women’s Union for a furnishing fund
for their building. It was a day-time affair,
in the courtyard of the Darling Building, and
was excellently planned and carried out.
Nora Collisson, who was both author and
producer, had as her chief henchmen the
Union’s president and secretary, Mrs. T. G.
Osborn and Mary Frost. Mrs. Mellis Napier
and Mrs. Harold Davies, who were cos-
tumiers, produced some really convincing bar-
barians, and Phoebe Watson was publicity
officer. There were stalls, too, and a com-
mittee headed by Miss Murray took round a
subscription list. Highest honors among the
mummers went to Man (Enid Boyce) and
Pride (Connie lire). Mrs. Armstrong, tall
and slim in silver white, was a delightful
figure in the Renaissance group.
A dance on the Sydney was the final item
of the Royal Week festivities, the ball
room being the quarter-deck walled with red
and white bunting, with Japanese lan-
terns to screen its lights. Supper was
in the ward-room, all gold and russet, with
tawny chrysanthemums and autumn leaves.
On the same night the South Australian
Orchestra gave one of the most ambitious
concerts it has yet attempted—a Beethoven
programme (concerto, symphony and a
couple of overtures), by way of marking the
composer's centenary. Maude Paddy was
at the piano, and, with conductor Foote,
faced a tumult of applause after her number.
r Phe Uni.’s Shakspeare Society opened its
season with a lecture on Elizabethan drama
by Prof. Archie Strong. The Alliance Frau-
qaise has set its winter ball rolling, too —
its first meeting a mixture of music, games
and reading, with Mdlle. le Maistre and Miss
Gwen Mitchell as the performers, and
Madame Wait winner of the games.
Mrs. J. IT. Finlayson and Mrs. A. G.
Price were chief organisers of a bridge even-
ing held at St. Mark's College, the objective
a cheque to pay for recent building exten-
sions.
The honorarium of Adelaide’s Lord Mayor
has been raised and there will be no lack
of candidates for the chair at next elections.
About five are already spoken of. Two, how-
ever, won’t consider money an object—
Glover, a large investor in city property, and
secretary of the Masons: and Matters, a land-
agent. and the youngest and most active
septuagenarian in the State.


Amusements.
EMPIRE THEATRE,
Railway Square, adjoining Saunders’ Corner,
in Quay Street, Sydney.
Rufe Naylor has the honor to present
2/6 “SUNNY” 5/6
(By arrangement with Chas. Dillingham, N.Y.)
PLAYING TO CAPACITY NIGHTLY.
“SUNNY” commences at 7.45 sharp. Orchestral
items from 7.30.
Reserves at Theatre (M.A. 1000), Nicholson's
Paling’s, Hotel Australia, Usher’s, Carlton, Samuel’s.
Matinees Wednesday and Saturday at 2.
Theatre Box Office Hours: 9 to 3, 4 to 9.
gYD N E Y’S CHIEF THEATRES.
.1 C. WIT.T.TAMSON, LTD., present
HER MAJESTY’S: TIP TOES.
CRITERION: *
THE CRADLE SNATCHERS.
ROYAL: FRASQUITA.
PALACE: SIX-CYLINDER LOVE.
(TULLERS’ THEATRE, SYDNEY.
r Twice Daily, 2.30 and 8.
STIFFY AND MO.
OPERA HOUSE, SYDNEY.
Prop.: Geo. Marlow. Direction William Russell.
'FRANK NEIL’S COMEDIANS
in
GETTING GERTIE’S GARTER.
RICKARDS’ TIVOLI THEATRES.
1 * Lessees: Harry Rickards’ Tivoli Theatres, Ltd.
MELBOURNE and SYDNEY.
TWICE EVERY DAY—2.3O and 8.
CELEBRITY VAUDEVILLE.
The World’s Best.
g C. W ILLIAMSO N, LTD.,
MELBOURNE ATTRACTIONS.
HIS MAJESTY’S: ROSE MARIE.
KING’S THEATRE: THE GREEN HAT.
THEATRE ROYAL: THE RINGER.
pRINCESS THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
EVERY EVENING AT 8.
the Eminent Actress MURIEL STARR in Dodson
Mitchell’s Great Drama in Four Acts, entitled
CORNERED.
Box Plan at Glen’s.
A T HEN Al U M THEA T R E,
MELBOURNE.
Proprietor: Frank Talbot Pty., Ltd.
Lessee: E. J. Carroll.
EVERY EVENING AT 8.
E. J. CARROLL Presents,
By Arrangement with Richard White and Eric Edgley,
The Delightfullv Funny Three-act Comedy,
THE UNFAIR SEX.
Plans at Allan’s.
MEW BIJOU THEATRE, MELBOURNE
■ Twice Daily, 2.30 and 8.
GEORGE WARD REVUE CO.
Popular Prices. Plan Cen. 3251.
YJESTIC THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
BERT LYTELL in
The Master Picture,
OBEY THE LAW.
Thrilling story of love, hate and lasting loyalty.
Deceit that was justified and sacrificed freedom,
r.ux Plan at Allan’s &• Theatre. ’Phone 7076 & 7790
UOYT’S D E LUXE THEATRE,
n MELBOURNE.
JACKIE COOGAN in
JOHNNIE GET YOUR HAIR CUT.
ALSO
DOROTHY MACKATLL and JACK MULHALL in
JUST ANOTHER BLONDE.
Prices as usual.
A UDITORIUM, MELBOURNE.
SATURDAY, MAY 21.
J. and N. Tait present that remarkable artist,
PADEREWSKI.
Plans at Allan’s.
TIIK, PLAYHOUSE, MELBOURNE.
' Direction: E. J. Gravestoek.
NIGHTLY AT 8.
ALEXANDER WATSON RECITALS.
Attracting Crowded Houses.
“THE INCOMPARABLE WATSON.”
THE ALLAN WILKIE SHAK-
-1 SPEAKEAN PRODUCTIONS
QUEENSLAND TOUR:
Rockhampton: Winter Garden Theatre, May 21 to 30.
Sydney Manager: J. V. De Batyn.
Head Office: Pulsford’s Chambers, 178 Castleveagh St.
Cable and Telegraphic Address: “Othello,” Svdney.
G.P.O. Box 2229 LL.
Missing Friends.
\Y/ANTED. —Information as to HENRY
” EDWARDS (of Catford, London), who
left England for Australia 39 years ago, then
aged 20. If he or his family will write to
BELLORD & 00., 8 Waterloo Place,
London, England, they will hear of some-
thing to their advantage.
OERSONS WANTED. A Free Register.
* All persons desirous of ascertaining
whether they have ever been advertised for to
BENEFIT should write DAY & CO., 140
Strand, London, England.
They have the largest and most complete
Register extant in the Old Country. Send
FULL names and a stamped reply envelope.
jV/TRS. GEORGE RAYNOR, whose last
known address was Bayview House, j
Thomas Street, Five Dock, Sydney, is sought j
Iby her relatives. Please communicate with
Advertising Department, Bulletin Office, ,
Sydney.
Legal Notice.
C STATE of MARGARET FERRY, late
■ L “‘ of Sydney, deceased.
Hugh Ferry, brother of the above-named.
| and son of John Ferry and Kate Sweeney,
or his children or personal representatives or
any person claiming through him a share in
the abovementioned estate, is requested to
communicate with the Public Trustee, 67
1 Castlereagh Street, Sydney, before the twen-
tieth day of July, 1927, after which date the
; Public Trustee will distribute the above-
mentioned estate among the other persons
entitled thereto, having regard only to the
claims of which he then has notice.
E. J. PAYNE,
Public Trustee,
Sydney.
or a good
niqht's rest
lake
Ŕ
it will ensure
a good day 's
In 4 sizes
of all Chemists
9
w 4
tSJUM,
r
Look for the
Trade Mark
“Vaseline”
It is your
protection
Vaseline
TRADE MARK
PETROLEUM JELLY
TO RELIEVE COUGHS
Soothe the annoyance of a
tickling cough by taking a
spoonful of “Vaseline” Jelly
internally. It’s pleasant and
easy to take. Won’t upset you.
Ghesebrough Mfg. Co., Cons’d
New York London Montreal
“THE WOMAN’S MIRROR,”
PRICE 3d.
Contains everything a woman needs it know.
THE MARK OF /
A GOOD RAZOR
THE
Post
Free
¥
y man vou know who uses a PLUM—
ask him if he doesn’t think it the best
Razor he has ever used. Hear him
answer, “Why, rather!”
SUPPLIED SEI READY FOR USE
GUARANTEED AND KEPT IN
ORDER FOR TWO YEARS FREE
CRAIG &AITKEN,
654 George Street, Sydney.
Answers to Correspondents.
•Vo notice (except of a hostile character) will be
taken of communications insufficiently slumped.
Same and address must appear on the MS. A’o
liability is undertaken re contributions volun-
tarily submitted: and no MS. will be returned
unless stumps accomuuny.
1.A.J.: It’s only the beginning of a story.
.... Tikots: Sentimental slops, as you guess....
James C.: As uninspired as a speech by ’Enley
or ’lll L.R.8.: The probable inability of the
Duke to juggle bags of wheat is not worth versi-
fying .... Ohas. H.: Where do you keep your sense
of humor?... .Pom: Your sketch mentioned two
prayers; we said a little one of our own... .D.M.F.:
Much too long; and put aside your stilts when you
write... .Ev Mac: It has all the poetic qualities
of an “In Memoriam” advt H.G.G.: That ghost
cannot walk in these columns.... Bert B. (N.S.W.) :
Your verse isn’t as refreshing to us as your swim was
to you... .W.H.8.: Too much of it.... J.G.L.: Those
fancies are played 0ut.... Jim McC.: “Bluey"’ is
uninspiring... .F.M.8.: Heartfelt sob about the
decline in the size of the pint lacks finish.... Will
E. : Your adventure in the hills was dull. .. .11.8..5.:
The set form is safest; if you can’t handle that
you certainly can’t handle the other... .G.R.D.: Nine
characters, and you killed only seven. Why so moder-
ate?... .8.L.M.: “The Milk of Human Kindness” was
turned sour by your verses about it... .G.S.M.McD.:
Send it along; all matter is paid f0r....
G.A.B. (M.L.) : No new glimmer in it Ivan (M.L.) :
Too long, even without the superfluous foreword....
J.W. (Katoomba) : Pathetic fragment about the
“grey-haired old lady who watches, and her brow is
all wrinkled with frowns” nearly broke our heart....
Jerry: What is it? It certainly is not verse....
A.D.M.: Two are thrown out because of weaknesses
which could easily have been overcome... .C.R.A.:
“The Bird of Time” flies back. .. .E.J.G.: Neat,
but not worth space.... J.C'.W.: Dreary recital....
Soames: Crudities ruined it.... Maud H.: “Flame”
and “dome” never rhyme in May.... Eleanor P.
(M.L.) : B’ails... .0.L.5.: Yes; introduction far
too 10ng... .F.R.M.: “Love in the Abstract” isn’t
concrete enough... .A.H.S. (Eng.): No value to us.
. ...R.McC.: Anzac Day verses are uneven; study
rhythm.... V. Mac.: Too slight. .. .Vida I. R.:
Beaten-up sugar... .E.N.: Your motor-bike hero came
a cropper... .Julia H.: We must spare Canberra that.
Eve M.: -The idea limps.... The Bear: As if
your caligraphy was not bad enough, you write in'
pencil—faint pencil at that S.V.D.: Tame story.
... .Pat G.: Your verses’ feet are too heavy to dance
in “Fairyland” J.C.W.: Journalese in rhymed
periods.... Tom P.: Also, Whittier forced “been”
and “pen” into a rhyme. That doesn’t say it’s right.
R.C.: You rarely do things like this: —
| Or is it but a charm that it is crooning
To the sand as it slips,
As dreamy as a worm when it’s cocooning
Or water when it drips.
W.C.W.: Forced humor J.M.S.: Slight
Hope D.: The last lines mystified us... .Fred F.:
Seems a long vvay round for a good horseman to go
in order to get a job J.H.C.G.: Too disconnected.
J.W.L.: If you had not rhymed “Duchess” with
“such is” six times we’d have felt surprised...-
Victor M.: Oh no, it’s not! W.R.: Barren, all
barren R.R.P.: R.I.P P.C.G.: Such tangles as
the third line are impossible... .E.R.M.: The griev-
ance lacks humor... .M.G. :■ The verse that deals out
three deaths in 16 lines deserves its place:—
He’d five hundred in his cabin
In a bag beneath his head,
For no one was more thrifty
Than the paling splitter, Fred.
One night the door did open,
And in stepped Burly Brown,
And on the sleeping splitter’s forehead
His axe came crashing down.
i Then swiftly through the doorway
Came the splitter’s wolf-hound, Speck;
And, as Burly seized the plunder,
He seized Burly by the neck.
And those three we found together,
In that far-back lonely hut,
For, when the wolf-hound strangled Burly Brown,
The splitter’s door got shut.
! ....Les T.: Too much pain in it... .P.R.N.: A
} weary march through a desert of dialogue... .E.E.
; (E. Sydney): Crude.. ..L.F.W.: Why be on such
cold terms with the harmless article? The absence
of the “the” makes several phrases awkward
M.C.F.: The Australian girl is just that —and some-
thing more Les T.: It has found “Perfect Peace.”
....Bud S.:—-
Why is it that when skies are blue,
The whole world glad,
That I should want to sit and weep
And feel so sad?
Dunno C.H.P : Dumped B. Cherry: Blank
verse looks easy; it isn’t C.1.D.: Try your local
paper... .J.H.C.: Poetry doesn’t consist of emus, ’roos
and cockatoos Pat: Even when spelt “aggenda,”
it doesn’t rhyme with “slender”... .Halstead: Might
survive if you shorten it Bellerive: Don’t worry
about jealous criticism; keep right on: —
’Twas a boisterous morn in winter,
A morn of wind and rain,
My hat did saileth through the air,
"Which made me miss my train.
Workmen on the tramline
Did laugh at my dismay—
When I went to grasp it
Again it blew away.
Against the wind and pelter
My hat I did pursue;
It lobbed upon the footpath,
And against a fence it blew,
X shook it and 1 wiped it—
’Twas in a dirty state —
For nearly twenty minutes
For a train I had to wait.
. ...W.M.W.: Only the raw material out of which
(good yarns are made. .. . A.C.M.: No lift in it....
Angus Og: On the border-line... .G.H.L.: Yes, has
merits; but we’ll stick to our old plan of Elective
Ministries, In them there need he no brawls if two
Ministers disagreed, because they wouldn’t be expected
■ to agree—there would be no reason why they should
even pretend t 0... .D.8.0’0.: You're all wrong. No
irrigation blocks are being offered at Canberra.
1 ....Ruth W.: Melodious, but without much appeal,
especially at this time of day.... Jim McC.: “Snake-
bite” just misses... .R.W.K.: The ending almost
saved it....A.Q.: Good stuff in it, but too long
F. : Another beat you.
TO ARTISTIC (AND INARTISTIC)
CORRESPONDENTS.
R.R.K.: Mirthless... .P. 8.: Dull jest attached to
ponderous picture.., .C.H.: You’ve given the younger
I girl two left hands. . . .E.R.: Send it to some pro-
hibition paper L.W.W.: Keep on, if you wish,
but don’t say we encouraged you. .. .H.M.S.: Per-
spective mightn’t count with you ; it does with us.
. ...N.8.: The joke is stale, but the style is original.
Too clashed original S.H.F.: Listless matrons
politely ushered out. .. .L.D.H.: Half-tone work needs
to be clear, and sharply defined K.S.: Schoolgirl
stuff... .E.W.8.: The pleasing barmaid will do if
j you can make her say something witty.
THE INKY WAY.
“A.G.M.” (Loud.) : In journalism, at any
rate, the English capital has left New York
almost at the post. At 2 p.m. every day the
6.30 edition of the evening papers is being
cried through London streets ! How is that
for intelligent anticipation?
“Coot”: The Sunraysia Daily was not
the first Australian paper to be distributed
by aeroplane. De Garis’s sheet ivas delivered
by ’plane in October. 1920. In December.
1919, Melbourne Herald instituted an
aeroplane service for holiday-makers at bay-
side towns on a non-stop flight to Sorrento.
Capt. Roy King was the airman, and the
service was continued through the Christmas
holidays. Later the deliveries were extended
to inland towns, including Sale, Hamilton,
Ballarat, Bendigo and Ararat.
“W.K.8.” (New York) : Frank White, an
Australian journalist, who started his Inky
Way career about a quarter of a cen-
tury ago in the columns of The Bulletin,
is leaving New York to become editor of the
Bangkok (Siam) Daily Mail. The owner
of the paper is the King of Siam. White
left Sydney as a sailor on a tramp-ship, and
has since been associated with big news in-
terests on both sides of the Atlantic for
nearly 20 years. Professor Sayre, of Har-
vard University, a son-in-law to the late
President Wilson, recommended him for his
latest job.
“Spare Byron”: They write rare, meaty
verses down Melbourne way, even if the dish
seems, sometimes, better fitted for the in-
cinerator than the stove. This extract from
an “Ode to the Facisti” lately saw print in
the Labor Call, and should make even
that indomitable Dago, Mussolini, take
thought:—
You ride the storm? Your paltry thoughtless brain,
In odorous rebellion at the strain,
Would burst asunder like a rotten plum.
You are but gas beneath a floating scum.
Attacomrade!
“Oxmead” : William C. Mills, of the Boort
(Yic.) Standard, who died in harness and
his mid-fifties the other day, had put many
out-back papers to press. He started his
type-juggling at Charlton (Vic.), but the
call of the W.A. goldfields took him west in
the ’nineties, and for many years he was
closely associated with journalism on the
Murchison. With Dan Colgan he set the
Cue Advocate going in ’9S. and later founded
the Day Dawn Chronicle. 111-health, arising
from lead-poisoning, that bane of the
printer’s calling in pre-lino, days, sent him
back to his native State, hut it couldn’t keep
him out of country newspaper offices, and
he ran papers at Birehip and Woomelang
before engaging in his final venture at Boort.
He was a good craftsman and a kindly sold,
as everyone found who ever worked for or
with him.
“Old Nib”: When the present King opened
the first session of the Commonwealth Par-
liament at the Melbourne Exhibition Build-
ing on May 9, 1901, a pressman who is still
going strong had the difficult job assigned
him of getting the royal speech to his office.
Twelve thousand people were struggling to
emerge, and the scribe was wedged in the
crowd. In a flash it occurred to him that
there was only one quick way—to follow the
royal party across the dais and go out by
the door reserved for it. But a man who
looked like a second duke and was really a
’tec blocked that passage. The sharp-eyed
Peacock, who was Premier, observed the in-
cident, and obligingly engaged the sleuth ui
conversation for a moment while the scribe
darted through. Then Alec laughed as oui.
he can.
ODE TO AN ODE-CLASSER.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“Professor J. Le Gay Brereton, who officiated as
judge in the S. M. Herald’s Canberra Ode Competi-
tion, refers to his task as ‘a sentence of hard labor,’
convincing him of ‘a widespread belief that an ode
may be written by anybody, without literary taste,
imagination or technical skill. ‘Thousands of hours,’
adds the Piofessor, ‘that might otherwise have been
employed in productive labor or profitable rest have
been wasted and a large quantity of good stationery
ruined.’ ”
My heart goes out to you, Professor J.
Le Gay
Brereton; you have my sympathy to-day.
Through miles of drivelling dithyrambs you
ploughed,
The villainous effusions of a crowd
Who deemed themselves with bardic fire
endowed.
Some of the fearsome fudge
One may assume that you declaimed aloud.
Being a strictly conscientious judge,
Pausing at times amid the flow and rush
Of mush and slush and gush
And limping, creaking, shrieking doggerel
For a contemptuous professorial “Tush!”
Or a sharp human “Hell!”
A penance and a work of woe —not ’arf! —
Torture refined for one who many a time
Has swept the lyre himself and built the
rhyme.
Specking the metric grain
From monstrous piles of musty, gusty chaff!
How oft, I wonder, did you groan in pain
And grind your teeth and glare
Like Gilead Beck when he intently set
Himself to get
The hang of Browning’s “Fifine at the
Fair” ?
After these bogs of bathos you have dredged,
You’ll never want to see another ode,
Classic or a la mode,
Real or alleged.
Poor, high-tried J.,
How can you feel Le Gay,
Soul-racked to find a Herald roundelay?
The minstrels whom as referee you crowned
The laureates’ guerdon in their pockets
stacked —
Cut up, to be exact,
An honorarium of forty pound.
I wonder what
You got
To compensate an academic pot
Who had to gwither through the blithering
lot.
N.S.W.
T. THE R.


am
K
N
/
p.
y
/
3
m
>*UY
yJ
maf*
y
I
fgh
FREE
SAMPLES of Zam-Bnlc
Balm and Zam-Bulc Medi-
cinal Soap icill he for-
warded on request from C.
E. Fad ford ( Aus.), Ltd., Sydney, if
name and date of this paper is men-
tioned. Regular size boxes of chemists
and stores. 1/6 or 3/6. Medicinal
Soap, 1/- tablet.
ZAM-BUK will heal anything from a simple
injury to a fiery patch of eczema or scalp
disease. It swifty soothes pain, removes poison
from the tissues, allays irritation, reduces swelling
and inflammation, and induces the growth of new,
healthy skin.
The features of Zam-Buk are its extraordinary
refinement and rich herbal character. It soaks right
through the tiny pores and thus heals from beloTD.
As a first-aid and all-round skm treatment Zam-Buk
stands alone. It pays to keep a box always handy.
CHILDREN’S FIERY ECZEMA. —
“Eczema attacked Arthur’s hands and face,
and Carrie’s whole body was affected,” says
Mrs. J. Pelham, of 215 Harrington Street,
Hobart. “They cried night long with irri-
tation and pain. Applications of Zam-Buk,
however, quickly soothed the skin and
allayed all inflammation. Continued use
of Zam-Buk dried up the sores, caused the
scabs to fall away and grew new, healthy
skin.”
CUTS AND WOUNDS. —“Whilst at
play,” says Mrs. I. Gould, of Anniversary
Road, Botany, Sydney, “my little boy
ripped the fleshy part of his foot, causing
a terrible wound. As the place got worse
I had a dread that operation would be
necessary to save the child’s limb. But
to my great joy, Zam-Buk soon wrought a
wonderful change for the better. Steady
perseverance with Zam-Buk healed the
lacerated flesh perfectly.”
RUNNING LEG ULCERS, —“I had
a terrible bad leg,” says Mrs. J. Beckett,
of Gympie Road, Aspley, Q. “It started
in mattery pimples' and developed into a
running ulcer. To ease the itchy irritation
I could not resist rubbing. The trouble
spread and the limb became more inflamed.
However, the first application of Zam-Buk
soothed pain wonderfully. I persevered
with the treatment until the flesh healed
and my leg was made strong and sound
again.”
BLOOD-POISON PERILS. —“A big
splinter from a hickory handle embedded
itself in my right thumb. ’ says Mr. W. H.
Newman, of Leyton House, Alexandra,
Vic. “As it was impossible to extract the
splinter, I promptly applied Zam-Buk and
carried on. Zam-Buk kept away pain and
inflammation and on the second day drew
out the splinter itself. It shows the value
of Zam-Buk as a safeguard against fester-
ing and blood-poison.”
SOOTHING & MEALING BALM
HEIFETZ
is actually HEIFETZ on the
New “His Master’s Voice” Instruments
Put a Heifetz Record on a New His Master s Voice Instrument. Instantly
you are in the presence of this master of the bow. The precision that is Heifetz
—the superb technique—the warm lyric tone that distinguishes this His
Master s Voice” artist —these are replayed to you with flawless realism through
this amazing new invention. Tones of correct volume, neither too soft noi
too loud—but full, mellow, NATURAL!
The new “His Master’s Voice” Instruments are always ready to entertain you
and your friends with music of your own choosing—a violin solo, an operatic
gem, stirring band music, a song of yesteryear or one of the catchy tunes of the
day. Whatever you prefer, whenever you say. It knows no limitations.
Horizontal Grand Model 261.
(Illustrated below.)
Height 84in. Length SSjin. Depth 21-Jin.
Internal Fittings—Goid-plated and Enamelled.
External Fittings—Oxidised.
Latest Type “His Master’s Voice” Internal Horn.
Ball-bearing Tone-arm and No. 4 Sound-box. Lid
Lock. Record Storing Chamber and Record Index
Book. Automatic Lid Stay. Double Spring Motor.
12in. Turntable, Self-setting Automatic Brake, Speed
Regulator and Automatic Speed Indicator.
In Walnut £72/10/-
Portable Model £l2
Table Models from £l4
Cabinet Models from £33
Complete catalogues of ‘‘His Master’s Voice” Records
and Instruments, with name of nearest dealer, for-
warded free on request.
ip
BBifliffll
m
&
HEIFETZ.
llis technique is flawless, the intonation is perfect, the
quality of the tone superb and entirely individual,
phenomenal mastery over bow and violin haying, been
vouchsafed him in childhood by a beneficent Nature for
once bent upon creating a perfect model.
Heifetz made his English debut in May. 1920, before a
packed house attracted by the wonderful “His Master s
Voice" Kocords that had preceded him. He toured Aus-
tralia in 1921, and is at present engaged upon his second
triumphant coueert tour of this country.
A New Electrical Recording:
HEIFETZ (Violin)
(with pianoforte accompaniment by Isador Achron).
12in. Double-sided Tied Label, 10/6.
D 8945 —(a) Minuets Nos. 1 and 2 (Sonata No. 61. Bach
(b) The Little Windmill Couperin
Valse —La Plus quo Lento. Claude Dehruss T
V,
i
His Masters Voice
/
THE HEIFETZ RECORDS.
12-inch Double-sided, 10/6.
DP*.ll0 —Slavonic Dance. No. 2 (Dvorak-Ivreisler)
Slavonic Dance No. 15 (Dvorak-Ivreisler)
D15.28‘i —Avc Maria (Schubert-Wilhelm))
On Wings of Song (Mendelssohn)
i) 15.284—Gypsy Airs, Op. 20. No. 1 (Zigenner-
woisen). (Sarasate)
Gypsy Airs, Op. 20. No. 2 (Sarasate)
D15.2S5 —Danza Espanola. Op. 21, No. 1 (Sarasate)
Introduction and Tarantelle. Op. 42
(Sarasate)
DB.2S6 —Serenade Meluncolhjuc, Op. 2(5 (Tsehai-
kowsky)
Serenade. Op. 48 (Valse). (Tschai-
kowsky)
1 >15.287 —Moto Perpetuo (Allegro de Concert), Op
11 (Paganini)
Sym plionie Espagnole Op. 21 (Lalo)
(Andante)
Dl>.2 V S —Berceuse (Juon) —Yalse du Ballet
Itaymonde (Glazounov)
Concerto, in E. Minor, Op. 64 (Mendels-
sohn) —Finale
DB.2S9—Concerto in A Minor (Goldmark) —An-
dante
Concerto. Op. 35 (Tschaikowsky)—Can-
zonetta
D 8.290 —Bondc 1 ><s Lutines (Bazzini)
Scherzo Tarantelle, 0p.'16 ( Wieniavski)
I)B. —291 —Concerto in I) Minor Op. 22 (Wieniav-
ski ) Romance
Hebrew Melody (Acliron)
D 8.292 —Nocturne Op. 27. No. 2 (Chopin)
Rondo in G Major (Mozart.-Krci.sler)
DB.S3S —Habanera Op. 31. No. 2 (Sarasate)
Hebrew Dance (Acliron)
For other Heifetz Records, see (f aural Catalogue.
THE GRAMOPHONE CO.,
163 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
LTD.


mk
t.
9.k
mu ,
m
Wh
*
®l!
Iw
Sfrv-rz
B
fr-
v
/
%
&
r,|
>
/•>
G
ZtplaiJe^
uPtcwior
]he Rudolph Wurlitzef M’f’g
Co., of New York, makers of
the famous ‘‘Wurlitzer” Orches-
tral Organs, are the builders of
the “Wurlitzer” Player Piano,
an instrument of matchless
tonal beauty and mechanical
construction, that ensures
LASTING satisfactory perform-
ance.
Easy Terms may be arranged
with “ Wurlitzer” Agents.
PRINCIPAL “WVRLIIZER” AGENTS.
NEW SOUTH WALES:
Royal Player Piano Co., 21 Park Street.
Sydney; M. Light & Sons. Ltd., Newcastle
and Cessnock; Jas. Loneragan, Ltd., Gul
gong; The Australian Stores', Yass.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA:
The Australasian Implement; and House
Furnishing Co., Adelaide.
VICTORIA:
Myers Emporium, Ltd., Melbourne.
WEST AUSTRALIA:
Musgroves, Ltd.. Murray Street, Perth.
TASMANIA:
Findlay’s Pt.y„ Ltd.. Apollo House, 63-6.')
George Street, Launceston.
Factory Representatives for Australasia:
PARKER, BLAU & Co., Ltd.,
8 O’CONNELL STREET, SYDNEY:
308 FLINDERS ST., MELBOURNE.
SUNDRY SHOWS.
SYDNEY SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Her Majesty's “Tip Toes”
Criterion “The Cradle Snatchers”
Royal “Frasquita”
1 alace “Six-Cylinder Love”
Empire “Sunny”
Grand Opera House .... “Getting Gertie’s Garter”
Fullers' Vaudeville
Hvou Vaudeville
MELBOURNE SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
His Majesty's “Rose Marie”
Ling's “The Green Hat”
Royal “The Ringer”
.Princess “Cornered”
Athen/Kum “The Unfair Sex”
Auditorium Paderewski
The Playhouse Alexander Watson
Tivoli Vaudeville
Buov Vaudeville
Majestic Moving Pictures
Hoyt’s Moving Pictures
-*•
Violinist Jascha Heifetz found Sydney’s
Town PI all crammed when he renewed
acquaintance with it on Saturday night.
With his accompanist, Isidor Achron, he
constitutes the whole show, and folk aren’t
kept very late out of bed to hear all he has
to offer. Heifetz plays with the solemnity
of a graven image and the grace of a gazelle.
No technical difficulty, however stupendous,
checks the torrent of melody that pours from
liis historic Guarnerius, and no demonstra-
tion of delight and approval from his audi-
ence, however tempestuous, ripples his
austere calm. In the one and only Men-
delssohn violin concerto he was at his sum-
mit, accomplishing a veritable tour de force
of sound, straightforward playing. The
tricks of the trade were displayed later in
the sort of pyroteehnical pieces that every
virtuoso uses to send the crowd home with
pleasantly-tickled ears. Since his last visit
there is no appreciable development of
Heifetz’s powers, but he was very near per-
fection _of technique then. Advancing years
may give him deeper feeling and a touch
of geniality, but years slide off him very
lightly. The Sydney season is unfolding a
repertoire that embraces a most imposing
array of big classics and some adaptations
from the piano—notably from the works of
Debussy—which are so effective that they
seem likely to modify the prejudice against
translations.
The absence of any basis of plausibility
in the plot of “Getting Gertie’s Garter” didn’t
prevent the audience at Sydney Grand Opera
House on Saturday night from laughing until
(judging from noises in the gallery) some
of it fell from its seats. The uproarious
farce is an up-to-date edition, of obviously
American vintage, of the old laughter-makers
in which an assortment of husbands and
wives, full of suspicion and foolishness, dodge
and fall over one another in numerous rooms
and three acts. Gertie, of course, might
just as easily have posted hack to Iven Wal-
rick the jewelled garter which enshrined his
photograph, given by the gentleman to the
lady before each of them married someone
else, as send a message to him to come and
get it. Also, at half a dozen points, the
whole confusion could have been cleared up
in two minutes by any but stark-mad people;
but what of that? The comedy is what is
expressively described as "a scream” from
start to finish; and, although a lady, deter-
mined to punish a husband suspected of
infidelity, sets about compromising her-
self in a strictly lady-like and virtu-
ous way, and while there are many hectic
references to embarrassing situations in bed-
rooms, there is nothing objectionable in it
all. Field Fisher, as a muddle-headed,
superstitious butler, provides the best part of
the humor, with Frank Neil, in the character
of Billy Felton, a “compromiser” somewhat
unreasonably dragged into complications by
the irate lady aforementioned, giving manful
assistance. The rest of the company mostly
contents, itself with running lines that ensure
laughs in a letter-perfect manner. Gertie.
Greiner, who was lively as Patty Walrick,
is the best of the women, who are all inclined
to shriek too much.
“The Ghost Train,” having been detained
in Melbourne by the sort of popularity theat-
rical managements hate to ignore, is not to
appear at the Sydney Criterion until Satur-
day, May 28. “Cradle Snatchers” will, there-
fore, stay at, its post for another week before
transferring to the Palace. “Six-Cylinder
Love,” however, will cease from chugging at
the Palace, in accordance with schedule, after
to-morrow (Friday) night’s performance ; the
opportunity is being taken to give “Is Zat
So?” another revival—this time for four
nights—with local boxer Bert Spargo as the
pug-chauffeur. Magician Harry Carter, who
opens at the St. James with a magic show,
■ will supply the only first-night for Saturday.
Her Majesty s Theatre is doing well with
"Tip Toes, and “Frasquita” proceeds happily
at the Royal.
Over a quarter of a million people have
seen Sunny” at Sydney Empire, and the man-
agement lias decided that the time is ripe
for a "new edition” of the enjoyable trifle —
which being interpreted means that a fresh
batcli of songs and dances will be introduced
on Monday night next.
Fullers’ Sydney Theatre barrow is pushed as
vigorously as ever by Stiffy and Mo tins
week: and although the usual shuffle and
new deal is provided, the company behind
the star pair remains unaltered. The show
has some defects; but no one can complain
that it fails to give the full money’s weight
of laughter.
Herbert Williams, who commenced his
drolleries at the Sydney Tivoli last Saturday;
garbs the old art of buffoonery in some
refreshingly new clothes; liis absurdities con-
stitute . cheerful change in a programme
which includes Mabs Howarth, a bright Aus-
tralian, and Gloria Dawn, whose monologues,
although they pass muster, are more remark-
able for the lady’s sumptuous dressing than
any histrionic ability. Tom Kelly and Sid
Beck help to keep the bill well loaded with
hilarity.
** * *
“The Golden Road to Strength and
Beauty,” a product of the famous UFA Ger-
man studios, now being exhibited at the
Adyar Hall, Sydney, is a fine advertisement
for the beauty of the nude form. Famous
dancers and athletes are depicted in attitudes
devoid of any prurient appeal. Extensive
use is made of slow-motion photography, to
depict every curve and muscle of the human
figure. The film has an educational as well as
an artistic appeal; it emphasises the extreme
care taken in Germany to develop the
physique, of the nation, after the war.
There is plenty of humor in the picture, too,
and the climax, a wedding on skis, makes
a delightful end. Australia needs more films
like these.
■' $ * #
Quite early in the history of photography
it was noted that the lens persistently re-
fused to regard a sky, however deep its blue
or how black its clouds, as being anything but
a white sheet. Ever since the days of Fox
Talbot, photographers have been doing their
best to remedy these and similar peculiarities
of nitrate of silver, but it was not until
Horsley Hinton showed how a P.O.P. print
could be faked so that its own negative
wouldn’t know it, that photography began to
flap its wings and talk about being "a fine
art. Then came bromoil and ozobrome and
all those processes that let, the lens do the
drawing and leave tone-values to the person
who does the printing-out. The little show
that the N.S.W. Photographic Society staged
in the Kodak Salon this week looked less like
photographs than rather gloomy etchings.
Harold Cazneaux, as usual, gets most atten-
tion. He has an artist’s eye for sprawling,
slovenly Sydney; he finds romance in Miller’s
Point, feels the charm of Darling Harbor,
and makes a poem out of grimy old Pyrmont
Bridge. But he never once gets away from
the tradition of the heavily-printed sky and
“TIP TOES," AT
SYDNEY HER
MAJESTY’S.
Chick Johnson and Ole Olsen, singing “These
Charming People.”
over-accentuated shadows. Monte Luke, G.
.1. Morris (who has at least one landscape
in which there’s some light in the sky),
Arthur Ford and 11. L. R. Bedggood show
attractive pyro-ph/s-oil pictures, and C. W.
Bostock commands respect by unlimited ver-
satility.
* -!* * *
Autumn’s Art blooms in Sydney:—
Artistically, T. Friedensen, whose show of etchings
and pencil drawings, bespattered with oils and water-
colors, is hung at Farmer’s Gallery, is not quite
acclimatised; the English coloring does not sit well
of some of his Australian subjects, but his old-
world work is full of charm and quality, “Wind-
mill, Essex,” has an appeal of its own, and the
“Grand Canal, Venice,” shows an expert jugglery
with life and movement. The etchings are, on the
whole, more satisfying.
A lady who has not forgotten the old passion for
figure studies is Miss Cumbrae Stewart, who is
exhibiting at the Hordern Studios. Australian male
artists have cut a track to fortune in the fog metro-
polis ; but Miss Cuinbrae Stewart was a pioneer
amongst the women. She has been successful in
both the Royal Academy and the Paris Salon. Her
sense for landscape has deepened, and is well ex-
pressed in her English subjects, such as “The Thames
in Winter.” “A London Eog” can hardly be termed
“THE RINGER,” AT MELBOURNE
THEATRE ROYAL.
Mary Macgregor, as Mary Lenley, an in-no-
cent typist; Nat Madison, as Samuel
Hackitt, an ex-convict.
a landscape, but it is very clever work. It is not
often that a woman is found painting with such
artistic decision.
The Macquarie Galleries, Bligh-street, are pre-
senting a collection of oils, water-colors and wood-
cuts by Ethelbert White, one of the younger school
of English artists. He is a glutton for mass effects,
with more than a tincture of the futurist madness
in his art.
* * * *
Large crowds, mainly with colds in their
heads, are still patiently sitting in the
draughts at Melbourne Auditorium, waiting
for Paderewski to finish paying the homage
of a great interpretative mind to the great
creative minds of the past, the reward of their
patience being a generous series of more
easily digested morsels from the repertoires
of the not-so-great. It is an interesting fact
which should be brought to the notice of
the anthropologists that the obligato of
coughs, sneezes and dropped umbrellas sinks
almost into silence while a Liszt etude or
a Chopin nocturne trembles on the air, but
becomes gradually crescendo during a T3ach
prelude and fugue; and in a Beethoven
sonata rises con fnria furioso to the dimen-
sions of an uproar. Still, there have been
plenty of occasions when the Polish vir-
tuoso has frightened into silence every itch-
ing membrane in the house, even with a
piece packed with thought. Such an occa-
sion came on Saturday when the pianist
turned to Beethoven’s Op. 27, which begins
in. wavering wise,, grows grave about some-
thing, and decides eventually to dismiss the
matter with cleansing laughter. Anon the
pianist dealt tenderly with four songs of
Mendelssohn, his busy rhythms enchant-
ing all hearers. Etudes Symplioniques,
Op. _ 13, by Schumann, on the same
evening, was an interesting mathematical
problem, cleverly solved, and with passages
of beauty intermixed. One of the trans-
cendent memories of the week was an
encore on one evening or another —this
Showman forgets which —when Wagner’s
liquid, sensuous notes thrilled the ear. It
was a Liszt arrangement of Isolde’s Love-
death from. “Tristan und Isolde,” and if
more such were provided, a little Chopin
and Schumann could easily be missed.
❖ * * *
Muriel Starr’s insatiable passion for chang
ing her clothes finds fine scope in “Cornered”
at Melbourne Princess. The industrious lady
opens in the plain hut well-cut habiliments
suitable for a virtuous maiden who has the
misfortune to find herself the ward of a
gentlemanly burglar and the companion of a
drug-taking crook. The cultured Sikes knows
of a young heiress who resembles Miss Stair
as closely as one Ford resembles another.
Muriel breaks into the New York mansion
of her double and lets in her confederates:
but while they are getting out their safe-
blowing tools, the heiress returns and is
wounded and left unconscious by the escaping
gang. Miss Starr, having previously pre-
sented herself with the freedom of the ladv'
wardrobe remains behind, and Carl Lawson
a police-officer, spends the third act in en
deavoring to decide which is which. But Mi s
Starr has had more experience in eullin*
stage policemen than probably most actresses*
and the fourth act finds her firmly hiSlled
as the lady of the house while the p£ are
merely waiting for the rightful owner to
recover consciousness to hale her off to the iue
At this point, however, Miss Starr, whose
heart has always been in the right place
reveals her identity as the crook, only to
be instantly recognised as the twin sister of
the heiress, lost as a baby in a shipwreck off
liong Ivong. This discovery clears up the
future for Dennis McMinn, who has fallen
in love with the crooked charmer while she
has been masquerading as the ladv
* * * *
The above complications are described erro-
neously as a mystery-drama. Actually the
audience is privy to the secret from the
start, and gets all its entertainment from
contemplating the general mystification of
the cast. The play, except for a humorously
humorless first act, is quite moderately
diverting and well acted in the main. As
herself and her sister, Muriel Starr exploits
her steel wire guitar voice to the full in
passionate moments, but puts heartbreak into
it at times when there seems no more
reason for doing so than for warming up
ice-cream. Dennis McMinn will not be a
satisfactory lover until he suppresses the
habit of approaching his mistress with the
air of a pugilist expecting a smack in the
eye. Nelly Dennes plays a society lady
briefly but with exceeding gusto, and Stanley
Henry behaves as an opium-eater is expected
to behave, but never does. Harvev Adams
looks comfortable in the clothes of the gentle-
man crook.
** * *
Arthur Buckley, the gentlemanly Indian
seer from Brisbane, will continue to testify
to the moral rectitude of Melbourne’s
Bijou patrons till the end of the week.
Gazing into a crystal he reads their
pasts and futures, and the worst that is
coming to them is a visit from an aunt in
N. S. Wales. None of them has ever been
connected with murder, arson, forgery or
even lifting a pair of stockings from Myer’s,
and the inference is that theatre-going crimi-
nals frequent the other playhouses. George
Ward, in “Keeping Fit,” is producing his
very best revue show since the last.
“The Unfair Sex,” at Melbourne Athen-
mum, makes as much to do about get-
ting down to business as a rural election
meeting. The whole of the first act could
be profitably omitted and a few words of
explanation substituted. A curtain-raiser
could be introduced to fill the blank, and the
populace would go home at eleven feeling
they had had their money’s worth. Zillali
Bateman, though a pleasant enough lady, is
too anxious-browed and unvarious an actress
to. keep interest fixed on the vicissitudes of
Diana Trevor for a whole evening. Although
she provides the greatest sensation of the play
when she whispers information of an obstet-
rical nature into her husband’s ear, during
the rest of the entertainment she fails to
command the attention due to a star. That
goes, oddly enough, to Henrietta Cavendish
in the part of a matron, mainly because she
speaks her lines with the air of one who has
thought of them for the first time. The
rest of the conspirators are by no means
deficient in the art of ambulatory farce.
* * *
It is a little curious that plays and players
greeted with enthusiasm by Sydney are
often met by Melbourne with a chilly stare.
And it isn’t always because the southern
city is more easily shocked; just as often it
is due to Melbourne disagreeing with Sydney
as to what constitutes Art. Judith Anderson
and her repertoire are cases in point. Mel-
bourne lias refused to accept Mr. Belasco’s
choice as the greatest emotional actress of
all time; nor have her plays led to unduly
heavy depreciation on the aisle carpets at
the King’s. The strenuous endeavors of the
management to make “The Green Hat” the
biggest box-office enormity of the year only
resulted in making the novel temporarily un-
obtainable at all the lending libraries. The
theatregoers courageous enough to be seen
at the show after what the dailies said
about its naughtiness have not been
numerous, and discriminating art-lovers have
stayed away. A communique was suddenly
issued last week announcing that Miss Judith
would be seen in “Cobra,” but it was as
suddenly contradicted. She will see out her
Melbourne season in her present headgear,
and on the twenty-eighth Richard Taber.
Hale Norcross and others of the previously
seen “Is Zat So?” company will commence
making “Six-Cylinder Love.”
* ;.'H * *
Alexander Watson, the reciter, is having
the season of his life across the Yarra. at
the Playhouse. It may be the reaction from
the free shows provided by the Yorks, or
it may be the indifferent quality of the fare
provided, but the fact remains that few
(Continued on Page 5Jf.)


The Bank of Australasia
(Incorporated by Royal Charter, 1835.)
Paid-up Capital . . . . . . . . . . £4,000,000
Reserve Fund (used in the business of the Bank) 3,810,000
Reserve Liability of Proprietors under the Charter 4,000,000
£11,810,000
NINETY-THIRD ANNUAL REPORT OF THE DIRECTORS
OF THE BANK OF AUSTRALASIA.
WITH THE ACCOUNTS FOR THE YEAR TO 11th OCTOBER, 1926.
PRESENTED TO THE PROPRIETORS AT THE ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING
HELD ON THURSDAY, 31st MARCH, 1927.
Report.
The Directors submit to the Proprietors the Balance-sheet as at lltli October last,
will tiie Profit Account for the year to that date. After providing for rebate on bills
current, for British, Australian and New Zealand rates and taxes, and making provision
for bad and doubtful debts and other contingencies, the net profit for the year amounted
to £652,621/11/6.
To this lias to be added £132,886/16/4, brought forward from the previous years
account, making a total of £785,508/7/10. From this. £260,000 was paid as an Interim
Dividend and Bonus on Ist October last, and the Directors have now appropriated a
further sum of £300,000 to pay a final Dividend of 7/6 per Share, making in all
£560,000, equal to 14/- per Share, and representing for the year a distribution at
the rate of 14 per cent, free of Income Tax. The Directors have also transferred £50,000
to the Reserve Fund, and have set aside £40,060 to meet commitments in respect of
Bank Premises. £135,508/7/10 will remain to be carried forward, to the next account.
The Proprietors will observe that the Bonus hitherto paid lias now been con-
solidated with the Dividend.
The Dividend will be payable in London and Australasia on Ist April.
The £50,000 set aside last year to meet commitments in respect of Bank Premises
lias been expended.
The Directors record, with much regret, the resignation, on account of advanced
years, of their colleague the Rt. Hon. Lord George Hamilton, who has been a valued
member of the Court of Directors since 1904.
To fill the vacancy thus created the Directors have appointed Mr. John Francis
Grey Gilliat, whose name will be submitted for the approval of the Proprietors at the
Annual General Meeting, in accordance with the provisions of the Deed of Settlement.
The Directors retiring bv rotation are: Mr. Charles Gipps Hamilton, Mr. Arthur
Whitworth, and Mr. John Francis Grey Gilliat, who, being eligible, offer themselves
for re-election.
The Auditors, Messrs. Deloitte, Plender, Griffiths and Co., offer themselves for re-
election.
The Directors record, with much regret, the rt tirement of Mr. C. ,T. Henderson, who
was for over 55 years a most efficient officer of the Bank, and during the last 15 years
rendered valuable service as Superintendent In his place the Directors have appointed
Mr. George D. Ilealy, the manager of the Melbourne Branch, to be Superintendent.
Since the date of the last Report, new Branches have been opened at Bourkc Street
West, Melbourne, and Eclmca, in Victoria; Deuiliquin, in New South Wales; and Upper
Hutt, in New Zealand.
KENNETH GOSCHEN. Chairman.
4 Threadncedle Street, London, 21st March, 1927.
PROFIT ACCOUNT, from October 13, 1925, to October 11, 1926.
Balance brought forward
from October, 1925
Profit for the year to
October 11, 1926,
after deducting Re-
bate on Bills current
at Balance date
(£6834/3/7). and
making provision for
all bad and doubtful
debts and for other
contingencies
Less:
1. Charges of Managc-
m en t —A ustralasia
Salaries and allow-
ances to the staff, in-
cluding the Superin-
tendent’s Depart-
ment, and 21S
Branches & Agencies
General Expenses, in-
including rent, re-
pairs, stationery, tra-
velling, etc.
London- —Salaries
General Expenses . .
£132, SB6 16 4
£1,516,376 9 S
£449.385 16 9
92.999 15 3
31.710 14 1
10 304 4 1
£584,400 10 2
TT. Rates and Taxes —-
Australasia .. .. £156,267 17 3
London .. .. 123.086 10 9
27 »,354 8 0
863,754 18 2
Total amount of net
profit for the year to
October 11, 1926 . .
652.621 11 6
£785,508 7 10
From which deduct
Dividend and Bonus
paid Ist Oct.. 1926. .
Transferred to Divi-
dend Account, pay-
able Ist April, 1927
Transferred to Re-
serve Fund
Transferred to Bank
Premises
£260,000 0 0
300,000 0 0
50,000 0 0
40,000 0 0
650.000 0 0
Balance carried forward per Balance-sheet
. . £135,508 7 10
BALANCE-SHEET, October 11, 1926.
LIABILITIES.
Circulation . . . . £438,540 0 0
l)ppo.sits .. .. . . 20,394,047 311
Bills Payable, and other
Liabilities, including pro-
vision for contingencies 4.430.22") 10 0
Capital £4,000.000
Reserve
fund .. 3,810,000
1 fividend
payable
April 1,
1927 . . 300,000
Profit ac-
count
balance 135,508
£34.203,122 3 S
0 0
0 0
0 0
7 10
8,245 508 7 10
£42*508,030 11 6
£42.508 c.:;n 11 G
G. CAMERON, Accountant. E. GOD WART). Manager.
We have examined tile cash and securities in London, and the London books, and
have verified tlie transfers from the several branches in the (Commonwealth _ and New
Zealand, and we beg to report that, in our opinion, the foregoing is a tull and fair
balance-sheet of the Bank, and that it exhibits a true and correct view ot the state
of the Bank’s affairs as shown by the books. The investments were valued at market
price or under
DELOITTE, PLENDER, GRIFFITHS & CO., Auditors.
London, 16th March, 1627.
Farmer & Company, Limited
Incorporated under the Companies Acts (England), 1862 to 1908, and registered
under the provisions of the New South Wales Acts relating to foreign companies
12th MAY, 1927.
ABRIDGED PROSPECTUS
OF
Issue of £500,000 in 5000 Six per cent. First Mortgage Bearer
Debentures of £lOO each, now offered for public subscription ait
£96/10/- on the terms and conditions set out in this Prospectus.
CAPITAL: AUTHORISED AND ISSUED, £1,000,000.
DIVIDED INTO
200,000 Six per cent. First Preference Shares of £1 each, fully paid . . £200,000
400,000 Seven per cent. Second Preference Shares of £1 each, fully paid 400,000
400,000 Ordinary Shares of £1 each, fully paid . . . . • • 400,000
£1,000,000
REGISTERED OFFICES:
Mansion House, 14 George Street, London;
and 436 George Street, Sydney.
UNDERWRITING BROKERS :
,T. B. WERE & SON,
349 Collins Street, Melbourne.
(By whom the whole of the issue has been
underwritten.)
BOARD OF DIRECTORS:
PARKE WILLIAM POPE (Chairman)
HANDEL NORMAN POPE
GEORGE WRIGHT
ninging Directors, 436 George Street, Sydney).
CHARLES GORMAN CUSACK WHYTE,
Director, 436 George Street, Sydney.
SOLICITORS:
For the Company—
MINTER, SIMPSON & CO.,
31 Hunter Street, Sydney.
For the Underwriters of this Issue—-
NORTON, SMITH & CO.,
33 Hunter Street, Sydney.
BANKERS:
THE ENGLISH, SCOTTISH & AUSTRALIAN BANK,
LIMITED,
George Street, Sydney.
CERTIFYING ACCOUNTANTS FOR THIS
ISSUE:
FLACK & FLACK, 42 Bridge Street, Sydney;
and of Melbourne, Adelaide, Brisbane and Perth.
AUDITORS:
BOWES & CRAIG, 350 George Street, Sydney.
BROKERS:
J. B. WERE & SON, 349 Collins Street, Melbourne.
PHILIP PRING & DOCKER, 27 Hunter Street,
Sydney.
GAVIN F. GARDNER ,& CO.,
52 Pirie Chambers, Pirie Street, Adelaide.
HENRY MONTEITH & CO., 334-338 Queen Street,
Brisbane.
SECRETARY AND HEAD OFFICE:
CHARLES GORMAN CUSACK WHYTE,
436 George Street, Sydney.
PARTICULARS OP THE ISSUE.
The face value of debentures to be issued in the terms of this prospectus is £500,000 m the
denomination of £lOO each. , T , ~
The rate of interest is 6 per cent, per annum, payable half-yearly on the 31st January and 31st Jui}.
The currency of the debentures will be twelve (12) years and two (2) months as from Ist June,
1927, and the debentures will be redeemed at par on 31st July, 1939. , ,
The price of the issue to the public is £96/10/- per £lOO debenture, and the effective rate o;
interest is therefore £6/8/6 per cent. , r ,
Subscription lists will be opened on Wednesday, 18th May, and will be closed at noon on Monday,
the 23rd May. Allotment money is payable on Wednesday, Ist June. There will be no priority
All cheques and drafts must be made payable to Farmer & Company, Limited, and marked “Not
negotiable.” ‘ Exchange must be added to country cheques, , , ~
In the event of the issue being oversubscribed, a pro rata allotment will be made, but the
Directors reserve the right to dispose of fractions in such manner as they deem fit. In case a less
number of debentures is allotted than is applied for, the excess of the deposit will be applied in or
towards payment of the amount payable on allotment, and the balance (if any) will be retuined.
Where no allotment is made the application money will be refunded in full.
PAYMENT OF APPLICATION MONEY. \
Application money will be accepted free of exchange in Sydney, Melbourne, Adelaide and Brisbane,
and applicants for the debentures have the alternative rights: . . „ ... , ,
1— Of paying £5 per debenture on application and the balance in full on allotment.
2 of payin'" £l6/10/- per debenture on application, £2O per debenture on allotment, £-0
per debenture on Ist August, 1927, £2O per debenture on Ist October, 1927, and £2O per
debenture on the Ist December, 1927, with the right to pay in full the outstanding balance
on any due date for payment of instalments.
PAYMENT OF INTEREST AND REPAYMENT OF PRINCIPAL.
Interest will be paid free of exchange on presentation of the relative interest coupons (which
will be attached to the provisional receipts and to the debentures) to the respective Head Offices o).
the English, Scottish and Australian Bank, Limited, in Sydney, Melbourne, Adelaide and Brisbane.
The principal sum will be repayable free of exchange by the Company on the 31st July, 1939, at
the respective Head Offices of the English, Scottish and Australian Bank, Limited, m Sydney, Melbourne,
Adelaide and Brisbane. , . ,
The first interest payment on debentures fully paid up on Ist Juno will be made on the 31st July,
1927. and will be calculated at the rate of six per cent, per annum up to and including the 31st
July,' 1927. Thereafter interest on these debentures will be paid half-yearly on the 31st January and
The first interest coupon attached to debentures paid for by instalments, or paid for in full on
any instalment day from and including the Ist August, 1927, will be payable on 31st January, 1928
and the interest at the rate of six per cent, per annum on the face value of the debentures will
include interest on all instalments paid during tlie period from Ist June, 1927, to 31st January, 19-8.
SECURITY r FOR CAPITAL.
The debentures will be secured by a Trust Deed in favor of the Union Trustee Company of Aus-
tralia, Limited, as trustee for the debenture-holders, and the Trust Deed will provide for a specific
First Mortgage (containing the usual covenants) over certain freehold properties of Farmer k Company,
Limited^ propo( . ed Trust Deed and of the Form of Debenture can be inspected at the offices of
the Union Trustee Company of Australia, Limited, at Sydney, Melbourne and Brisbane, and at the
offices of J. B. Were and Son, 349 Collins Street, Melbourne; and of Gavin I<. Gardner and U,
52 Pirie Chambers, Pirie Street, Adelaide. Applicants will be deemed to have notice of the contents
Arrangements bare been made to register the Trust Deed in England as soon as possible after
its execution, if such registration is required. .. . ~ >
The principal property to be mortgaged hasp, frontage of 164 ft. sm. to the west side of i in
Street, a frontage of lift. s|io. on tlie splay comer, and a frontage of 132 ft. 10 3-Bm. to the north
side of Market Street. This is valued at £897,50(1 .
In addition, a mortgage will.be given over the freehold property of.the Company, having a frontage
of 69ft. 6sin. to the west side of Kent Street, by a depth of 14 7ft. 2 1-Sin. on one side, and 134 ft.
7-Jin on the other side, along a light area. This is valued at £78,;>00. • '
" The combined valuation of the properties is £976,000, and the present issue represents n 1.23
per cent, of that valuation. , . . „ , .... T . „. •
The Pitt Street building is' very substantially built and is m perfect condition. It contains a
basement, ground floor and five upper floors, with a roof garden and a display theatre.
The Kent Street buildings also are very substantially built, and comprise four storeys. These premises
are used principally as a bulk store and manufacturing workrooms.
PURPOSE FOR WHICH THE MONEY IS BEING RAISED.
The object for which the present capital is being raised is tlie construction of a modern Department
Store facing George Street and immediately adjoining the Pitt. Street property. The first portion of
the building' is now in course of erection at the corner of George .Street and Market Street.
BEARER DEBENTURES WILL BE ISSUED.
Bearer debentures will be issued to individual applicants under the seal of the Company, and will
have the benefit of the covenants of the parent mortgage deed.
SINKING FUND PAYMENTS, ADMINISTRATION OF THE FUND AND INVESTMENT OF THE FUND.
The Company will pay to a Sinking Fund not less than £lO,OOO per annum, and the first payment
will be made simultaneously with the striking of the profit for tlie year ending 31st July. 1930.
The Sinking Fund w ill, he applied to the purchase in the market of the Company's debentures _so
(ono- as they are quoted on the Australian Stock Exchanges at not more than £lOO after allowing
for 19 accrued interest, or will be otherwise invested in any securities in Australia in which trustees
are empowered by the laws of the Commonwealth cr of any State to invest.
APPLICATIONS FOR DEBENTURES.
Applications for debentures may be made through any member of a recognised Stock Exchange, in-
direct to the following
The Underwriting Brokers. J. B. Were & Sons, 349 Collins Street, 5161110111-110;
Flack and Flack, 128 William Street, Melbourne; and Fraser House, Bridge Street, Sydney;
Philip Priug and Docker, 27 Hunter Street, Sydney ;
Gavin F. Gardner and Co., 52 Pirie Chambers, Pirie Street, Adelaide; and
Uenrv Montoith and Co., 334-338 Queen Street, Brisbane.
All applications must be forwarded to one or other of the above before the closing time of the
issue at noon on the 23rd May, 1927. , , . , „. ,
Brokerage of ten shillings (10) per cent, will be limited lo members of recognised Stock
Exchanges, and such brokerage will be paid on allotments in respect of which tlie application bears
the stamp' of a member of a recognised Stock Exchange.
The Underwriters have exercised their option of applying for, and of being allotted, Fifty (50)
cent, of the issue now being offered. This means that debentures to the face value of £260,060
per
In the event of this amount being oversubscribed,
pro
only are available for public subscription,
rata allotment will be made.
Allotments will be made bn the 25tli May, 192 1.
LISTING OF DEBENTURES ON STOCK EXCHANGE.
Application will be made in due course for the listing of the debentures on the Sydney, Melbourne.
Adelaide and Brisbane Stock Exchanges.
FLACK AND FLACK’S CERTIFICATE.
Messrs. Flack and Flack have made the following report to the Directors of Farmer & Company.
Limited respecting tlicir investigation of the accounts of the Company:—
The Directors, Sydney, 9th May, 1927.
Fanner & Company, Limited,
In accordance with your instructions, we have examined the Books and Accounts ot your
Companv for i the three rears ended 31st July, 1926.
The Profits shown in the. published Accounts for the above period were as follows:
Year ended 31st Julv, 1924 £-85,163 18 3
Year ended 31st July, 1925 93.529 11 10
Year ended 31st July, 1926 98,412 18 1
being an annual average of £92,368.'16/1. . . . ,
In our opinion such profits were arrived at after providing for Depreciation, Bad and Doubttu.
Debts' Taxation and Tntevest, on borrowed money.
We investigated the methods followed in valuing the Stocks on hand, and satisfied ourselves that
they were valued on a strictly' conservative basis.
Yours faithfully,
FARMER & COMPANY, LIMITED, FLACK AND FLACK,
Public Accountants.


The Australian Provincial Assurance Association Limited
HEAD OFFICE: 77 KING STREET, SYDNEY.
Directors: Messra. W. NORTHAM (Chairman), ALEX. KING, Dr. E. MORRIS HUMPHERY, Senator J. D. MILLEN, and Mr. EDMUND S. W. PAUL.
Total Assets exceed.. .. .. £1,724,000 ,
BRANCHES: Melbourne, Brisbane, Adelaide, Perth, Hobart. NEW ZEALAND: Wellington, Auckland, Christchurch, Dunedin.
SOME REASONS WHY YOU SHOULD INSURE WITH THE A.P.A.:
(1) Because in the event of total disablement for life all future premiums
will be paid by the Association and no deduction made from policy or
bonuses.
(2) Hospital Benefits are given with every Life Policy applicable to public
and private hospitals, varying in amount according to the sum assured
and no deduction made from policy or bonuses.
(3) In the event of loss of eye or limb through accident, a quarter of the
sum assured will be paid forthwith, and the premium reduced propor-
tionately.
(4) PERSONAL ACCIDENT and Combined Benefit Policies provide for
almost every contingency.
NO EXTRA PREMIUM IS CHARGED FOR THESE BENEFITS:
Probate, Children’s Education and Finance Policies specialised.
Applications for Agencies invited from men of integrity.
GKO. PKACOCK, F.C.I.S., Secretary.
T. W. RAPT.KY, General Manager.
of the shows now running need police to
keep the queues in order. Even “Rose Marie,”
at His Majesty’s, isn’t being more than
moderately rushed. “Possum Paddock” is
producing a fair crop of mushroom laughter
at the Palace. Maurice Moscovitch is per-
forming in “The Ringer” at the Royal; but
elderly artists in improbable parts don’t cut
much ice in these impatient times.
Every fresh acrobatic turn at Melbourne
Tivoli appears to be the last word and the
ultimate exclamation in impossibilities. The
Gallenos —six of them—are the ultimate ex-
clamation at present, and the way they fly
about the ether suggests that they could
safely fall out of an aeroplane with nothing
more sustaining than a pocket whisky-flask
about them. Jarrow is a mirthful magician,
and Alexander Carr, who claims to be the
original Perlmutter, is at any rate an origi-
nal impersonator of Yiddish roles.
A Melbourne art burst:—
The Bananalander Vida Lahev, who alternates
annually between the summer sun of Tasmania and
the winter sun of Queensland, is the most important
feature of this week’s art parade. She depicts a
•world that has just been dusted, scrubbed, holy-
stoned and repainted as if for a royal visit. The
visitor in each case is the sun, which riots shouting
through her landscapes, while the foliage fires a
21-gun salute in the rear. The artist’s outlook is
quaintly naive, her houses resembling brightly-
colored blocks arranged by an intelligent child. When
the sun doesn’t happen to be shining, the pictures
lose some of their charm, and faults of aerial per-
spective obtrude, as in No. 13, in which “The Hidden
River, Port Ville,” succeeds in flowing through a
landscape that doesn’t recede. Nevertheless, her
light and color are cheerful acquaintances to run
against in the present weather, and worth several
drayloads of briquettes. The show is warming the
interior of the Athenamm.
The Sedon Galleries, which have been enlarged and
improved, are throwing a nice even light on the
oils and waters' of Thomas le Brim, an old worker
in the field who has possibly reached the peak of
his achievement. The peak may be no Everest, or
even Kosciusko, but it is a pleasant summit, with
a mild, bracing climate and an extensive view. The
reports on Victorian weather include hazes in the
bush, calms on Port Phillip and fogs at sea, and
most of them are neatly stated.
The Australian Water-color Institute members are
showing their 1927 models at the New Gallery. John
If. Moore strikes a fresh note with some old scarred
faces of Sydney’s sea-cliffs, a solitary gnarled tree-
trunk in fiat relief against them, much in the manner
of a Hideyoshine or a Hokusai. A Henry Fullwood
is pictorial and B. E. Minns sentimental, and Chopin
would recognise a fellow musician in G. K. Towns-
liend, although he works in wash. Farmer Kenneth
Mac Queen continues to contradict the city artists
on the subject of the bush, and R. Fizelle has painted
a wave whose slapping to and fro amongst the
rocks is distinctly audible. Most of the rest are
as pleasant as a sunny autumn day in Perth.
“The Ghost Train,” at Adelaide Theatre
Royal, has reduced feminine Adelaide‘to such
a hysterical state that it is afraid to go
home in the dark. At the Prince of Wales
gripping melodrama is served up in spicy
fashion by the William Anderson company,
in “The Woman in the Case,” Hilda Dor-
ring ton presenting a thoroughly emotional
Margaret Rolfe. At the Majestic Sam Stern
is featuring Hebrew items, and the F. Gayle
Wy er Band-box Revue is full of peppiness.
“Held by the Law” is the thriller at West’s
Pictures ; it starts with a murder, and throws
in some realistic scenes in Sing Sing.
"Joselyn’s Wife” dishes up yet another mur-
der dish as the second course, and Pauline
Frederick is in her element. The South Aus-
tralian Orchestra gave the first concert of the
season, a very successful Beethoven one, on
Saturday night at the Exhibition. W. R.
Foote conducted, with Sylvia Whitington
leading the orchestra and Maude Puddy as
pianiste.
“Choir Boy” : Berne in Switzerland went
one better than the Melbourne people who
brought a baboon into court as witness in
a case of alleged cruelty against animal-
trainer Apdale. In the Swiss case the
keeper of a famous bear-pit took action
against three employees who had accused
him of maltreating his hairy charges. Two
of the bears were produced at the hearing,
and, after growling ferociously at the defen-
dants, hugged their keeper with every mark
of affection. The Judge accepted tfijp evidence
as conclusive.
“Hamfat”: Our old friend Bowdler has
been at work to save the morals of our
schoolboys. Picking up an old “Macbeth”
that had been evidently used for school pur-
poses I discovered long passages—particu-
larly the one in which the porter describes
the effect of liquor on the passions—
blacked out heavily. Minor corrections in-
cluded the alteration of the adjective- in
“Oh, bloody deed!” to “bloodstained”; and
Lady Macbeth was made to exclaim “Out,
dreadful spot!” The alterations were printed
in in a schoolmasterly hand.
Poverty
Point
A QUESTION OF OWNERSHIP.
“There’s Meekin! Is that Ms wife with him?”
“That’s hardly the right way to put if. He’s her husband."
“Cine Ma”: The new law in Vic. making
it compulsory for filmers to mix in 1000
feet of Australian pictures nightly is already
having its effect. A company for running
off the educative line of goods is being floated
in Melbourne and another syndicate is in-
terested in a contract for a million feet,
which is to include feature films. But it
doesn’t take much to comply with the 1000
feet stipulation if Commonwealth Govern-
merit industrial films are drawn upon. As
soon as the new companies have shown their
mettle the quota will have to he increased,
“S.T.S.” (Lond.) : Two things are notice-
able in London theatres now: (1) absence
of applause; (2) late arrival. The first is
ascribed variously to listening-in, where
applauding is futile, and so one gets out
of the habit; and to wrist-watches, whose
hair-springs may be disordered by much
hand-clapping. Anyway, a comedian who
gets the heartiest laughter while on the stage
goes off without the usual applause. The
old curtain-raisers have mostly been dropped,
Where the show is not twice nightly—say,
6.30 and 8.45 —it begins somewhere between
8.15 and 8.40. And even then —well, at a
reigning success, starting 8.15, I was one
of a handful in the stalls when the curtain
rose. At the first interval the lights went
up: the house was packed. They had dined
well, and that is the important thing in
London.
“Smada” : Who invented the queue in Aus-
tralia? When Phillip Lytton (B. 1.2/5/’27)
started his tent-theatre tour at Katoomba
(N.S.W.) the mountaineers were tent-shy,
most of them being Easter excursion-
ists from Sydney. Two of us, friends of
Phil’s, did our best to give the show a start.
First I would march briskly up to the box-
office, pay my money, enter —and make an un-
seen exit under the flaps of the tent. Then my
friend took up the running; while I appeared
in front of the show and paid my entrance
money again. It wasn’t much of a queue,
but it was the beginning of a fortune further
out back.
“Musi Cuss”: America’s champion sac-
charine ballad-maker, Ernest Ball, is dead.
He was the author-composer of those tune-
ful, though pathetic, effusions, “Love Me
and the World is Mine,” “When the Sands
of the Desert Grow Cold,” and a hundred
others. He sang them, too. Then the jazz
fiend came in at the door, and the love lyric
flew out of the window.
“Vodyveel”: America, always a whale on
centenaries, has been celebrating that of
vaudeville, though what authority there is to
say that this alleged form of entertainment
originated 100 years ago no man knowetli.
The roots of the matter must go much further
back, to street-corner performances by jug-
glers and dancers and bear-leaders in
mediaeval cities maybe. The evidence of the
jokes alone would tend to date vaudeville
back to this period at the latest, while the
beginnings of one at least may be found in
Genesis.
“Curtain Raiser”: Not satisfied with own-
ing more than a
hundred picture-
palaces, the non-
existent Mr. Hoyt,
alias Hoyt’s The-
atres. L t d., is
shortly to break out
in an orgy of fresh
building involving a
million and a half
of bullion. Adel-
aide. Perth, Sydney
and Melbourne are
to be blessed, the
latter. two with
theatres costing up-
wards of £400,000.
The Melbourne em-
porium is to be
opposite the little
Athenaeum, on the
old Argus site, and
will be more pala-
tial than the near-
by Capitol. This,
designed by Burley
Griffin in accord-
ance with some now
forgotten law of
aesthetics, was re-
garded only a year
or so ago as the last
word in such basili-
cas. There are 292
picture-theatres i n
Vic., and Victorians
pay 30 million visits
to them annually.
What a humble
showing the legiti-
mate drama makes
alongside this! Out-
s i d e Melbourne
there isn’t a single
theatre dedicated
exclusively to ftesh-
’n’-blood plays, and
those in the metrop.
can be counted on
the fingers of one
hand.
“Lud”: The idea that British mummers
in receipt of high salaries give freely to
charity is erroneous, aeording to Gerald du
Maurier, with whom Seymour Hicks is con-
sequently annoyed. Certainly there is plenty
of evidence to show that the profession as
a whole does not support its own organisa-
tions, the Actors’ Benevolent Society and
the Royal General Theatrical Fund, which
are always languishing for want of subscrip-
tions. Hicks, on the defensive, though his
name was not mentioned by 7 Du Maurier,
says that he is bombarded with appeals from
down-and-outs, and gives so much privately
that he is unable to subscribe to the Actors’
Benevolent Fund. He makes the surprising
comment that a £lOO subscription to that
fund “would be a good advertisement.”
Fancy Seymour missing it!
“Caul Boy”: Frank Harvey didn’t always
succeed in impressing people with that high
air of tragedy of his. During a wartime
strike on the transcontinental railway he
escaped from Westralia with Muriel Starr
and co. on a transport. Not finding the
food up to the standard of Menzies’ or the
Australia, the co. deputed the serious-minded
mummer to complain. Sticking a dish of
the despised ration under the O.C.’s nose.
Harvey demanded if the O.C. thought it was
good enough to eat. The O.C. carefully
inspected it. “Not good enough for sol-
diers,” he remarked, “but too dam’ good for
actors!”
“Hamfat”: Arthur Nevin Tosseau, known
throughout N.S.W. and many other parts of
the world as “the Poster King,” is no more.
He used to give open-air entertainments
at popular resorts, interlarding torrents
of patter with lightning sketches into which
advertisements were artfully blended;
but his habit, of free criticism some-
times got him into holts with authority. The
man’s amazing vitality gave out suddenly
whilst he was motoring, on show business
intent, from Wellington to Dubbo.
“Max”: Winifred Wayne (B. 5/5/’27) is
the Rev. Oliver Dean’s daughter—not step-
daughter. He took her abroad to study for
the stage, and she won a scholarship in Lady
Bancroft’s school a few years ago. Winnie
has always had encouragement and assistance
from her parents. Her mother, who is a
member of the wealthy Holt family of timber
interests, is a landscape-painter, who might
have achieved fame had she not chosen to
devote her life to her family and the cares
of a very poor M.L. parish.
“A.G.M.” (Bond.) : In “The Desert Song,”
which has succeeded “Rose Marie” at Drury-
lane, Clarice Hardwicke, as second lead,
has made a distinct success, more than one
critic describing her as the best comedienne
in London. In team work with Gene Ger-
rard, the Australian girl received applause
second only to that bestowed on Edith Day,
the American lead. For this play the libra-
ries have taken seats to the value of £45,000.
“F.S.”: American film garbage has pro-
bably had as much to do with lowering the
white man's stock in Asiatic eyes as Bol-
shevik propaganda, and now- Britishers
appear to be taking a hand in the idiotic
game. A picture recently thrown out of
India which depicted wdiite women sordidly
behaving was made in Britain. So rigid
are Oriental conventions with regard to the
female of the species that the Indian has
the worst opinion of the white woman whom
he sees dancing with a friend; if any of his
own womenfolk so behaved in public he
would put her down as a lady of breezy
virtue. What the same gentleman must
think of Holly wooden vamps is better
imagined than described.
“Hudson”: It was a little Adelaide school-
girl’s first play, “The Gondoliers.” At the
entry of Marco and Giuseppe, she p.aitingly
asked: “Will you please tell me which is
Mr. Gilbert and which is Mr. Sullivan?”
“The Stage Oat”: The Firm's touring
“White Cargo” co. is doing excellent busi-
ness in Queensland. The Tondeleyo is a
remarkably clever young Melbourne girl.
Dorothy Stanward, whose experience has
hitherto mostly been with Conservatorium
and Repertory shows, but who was chosen
by Leon Gordon to understudy Judith Ander-
son in “The Green Hat.” The management
is not seriously considering the suggestion of
the Italian proprietor of one of the theatre-
visited that a pony ballet in each act would
be an improvement.
“Jeune Premier”: Surely “Caesar’s Ghost"
is not speaking by the card when he says
(B. 12/5/’27) that “Lightnin’” was “never a
great success in this country.” The Ameri-
can hotchpotch had a remarkable money-
making run here: long seasons in each city
and return visits to excellent business. The
J.C.W. directors re-engaged the chief actor
(John D. O’Hara) not once but many tiroes,
and before he departed for his native land
signed him up for another visit, which he
duly paid. If he had had another “Ligkt-
nin’ ” in his repertory, he would be with us
'yet.
“Nero”: “Caxsar’s Ghost” (B. 5/5/27)
misses a beat when he credits the Carrolls
with bringing Kreisler to Australia. It
was Fred Macrea who engineered the feat
after many months. Before the violinist left
Europe a cheque with many noughts on it
was required to be deposited with Fritz $
bankers; the “angel” was a wealthy Vic-
torian whose main interests are concerned
with pony-racing and pugilists. Macrea may
succeed in persuading Kreisler to a return
visit in 1928 or thereabouts.
“Gan”: As for smoking in theatres, Lon-
don people smoke through 81 inks pear e at
the old Vic., and are sometimes fortified with
beer. At Henry Wood’s concerts nearly
everybody smokes (or did) ; and Beethoven
and Wagner survive. In Australian theatres
smoking might be a good thing. Tobacco
is an antiseptic.
“Goldilocks”: Madge Elliott’s success as
a dancer in London gives fresh laurels to
Minnie Hooper, who taught her. Dorothy
Brunton was Minnie’s first star pupil:
others trained by the accomplished woman
were Maie Baird, Josie Melville, Fred Car-
penter, Eve Gray, Elma Hardman and
Polly Power. Gladys Moncrieff was also
amongst the host, but footwork was never
one of Gladys’s Strong points.
THE DOUBLE-BASS.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The music-man who takes his place
Each night beside the double-bass
Is always woebegone;
He never gets a word of praise
However valiantly he plays
His big pantechnicon.
The favored flautist gets a show
With many an arpeggio
The public’s praise to win;
It breaks the double-bass’s heart—-
He never gets a solo part,
He hates the violin.
His dear old hippopotamus
Dislikes the trombone’s noisy fuss;
His pizzicato’s drowned ;
The cymbals make a blatant noise,
Their bray his tender chords destroys.
He hardly hears them sound.
And yet he knows he does his share
And bows his jigger as it were
The dearest thing in life;
And at the ending of the day
’ He totes it home upon a dray
And plays it to his wife.
N.S.W.
ARTITUR H. ADAMS.


Shipping.
WINTER TOURS
Escorted Tours to
JAVA : : MALAYA
SIAM : : JAPAN
Independent Inclusive Tours to
HONOLULU, CALIFORNIA,
BRITISH COLUMBIA,
SOUTH AFRICA, CEYLON,
NORTH QUEENSLAND.
WINTER SPORTS AT:
Mount Buffalo (Vic.), Mount Cook (N.Z.),
South Sea Island Cruises.
Special Programme Post Free from
THOS. COOK & SON,
MELBOURNE:
269 Collins Street.
SYDNEY:
Martin Place.
PERTH:
99 St. George’s Terrace.
ADELAIDE :
49a Grenfell Street.
Huddart ParkerL
Magnificent
Fast Passenger
Steamships
STEAMERS TO NEW ZEALAND —Regular sailings
from Sydney to New Zealand ports and vice versa.
Particulars to be obtained on application.
SIEAMEItS TO TASMANIA—Krom Sydney to Hobart
and vice versa as per daily papers. Between Mel-
bourne and Launceston as per daily papers.
1'or full particulars apply HUDDAI1T PARKER LIMITED,
Coll ins Street, Melbourne; Bridge Street, Sydney,
BRISBANE, via BYRON BAY
Through Tickets to Brisbane issued.
S.S ORARA—Every Saturday evening; passengers
due Brisbane Monday afternoon.
S.S. WOLLONGBAR—Every Tuesday evening;
passengers due Brisbane Thursday afternoon.
Both vessels fitted with Wireless Receiving Sets.
FARES.—
BRISBANE:
Steamer and Motor throughout, Single, £4
Steamer and Motor throughout, Return, £7/5/-
■Steamer and First-class Rail, Single, £3/15/-
Steamer and Second-class Rail, Single, £3/8/-
NORTH COAST S. N. CO., LTD.,
Passengers’ Booking Office:
TOURIST BUREAU, CHALLIS HOUSE,
MARTIN PLACE, SYDNEY.
Brisbane Booking Agents: Burns, Philp and Co., Rtd.
Sunshine and Flowers now in
HAWAII
Avoid the winter cold by visiting the Islands of
Enchantment. Total cost of round-trip from
Sydney in eight weeks or less (three to four
weeks in Hawaii), about £lOO to £l5O. En
route to America or Europe, “stop-over” privi-
lege costs no more. Complete modern con-
veniences, good hotels with meals, 12/- to £3
per day. Tropical scenery, fresh fruits, vege-
tables ; thrilling melody. Golfing, motoring,
outrigger canoeing .and surfboard riding. Inter-
island cruises. Ask steamship or travel agent,
or write Hawaii Tourist Bureau, Dept. 26, Box
241-D, G.P.0., Sydney, N.S.W., for full des-
cription in colored booklet, attaching this
advertisement.
No extra cost to break your journey at
HAWAII
Banking, Public Companies, etc.
The Australian Bank of Commerce Limited
Authorised Capital .. .. .. £5,000,000
Capital Paid Up and Reserves .. .. £2,685,303
Aggregate Assets at 30th June, 1926 . . £16,789,590
Directors: Sir Mark Siieldon, K.8.E., Chairman ;
Frank N. Yauwood ; Duncan Carson ; H. R.
T.ysaght, 0.8. E.; George J. Sly, LL.D. ; Lieut.-
Col. T. L. F. Rutledge.
General Manager: 'C. M. C. Shannon.
Chief Inspector for N.S.W.: W. G. Hull.
HEAD OFFICE, SYDNEY (Corner George and King
Streets).
Branches and Receiving Offices at 151 places in
New Soutli Wales.
BRISBANE (264 Queen Street).
Chief Inspector for Queensland: L. Avetard.
Manager: G. H. Howell.
Branches and Receiving Offices at 27 places in
Queensland.
MELBOURNE (325 Collins Street).
Manager: M. B. Finney.
ADELAIDE (35 Rundle Street).
Manager: R. T. Moodie.
PERTH, W.A. (73 St. George’s Terrace).
Manager ; A. C. Dhidin.
LONDON (37 Threadneedle Street, E.C.2).
Manager: A. F. Jenkins.
London Directors:
A. Dodds Fairhairn, Alfred Shepherd.
Agents throughout Australia. Tasmania and New
Zealand, and at all the Chief Cities of the World.
Every description of Banking Business Transacted.
Bank of New Zealand
SYDNEY BRANCH:
Corner GEORGE and VV YN YARD
STREETS.
Guaranteed Stock.. .. .. £52t/,988
Preference Shares .. .. .. 1,875,000
Ordinary Shares . . .. .. 3,750,000
Reserve Fund and Undivided Profits 3,390,378
GRANTS DRAFTS
on Australia, New Zea-
land, Fiji, Samoa,
Croat Britain and I reran d, and other places.
RECEIVES DEPOSITS
at Interest for
fixed periods, and
transacts all other usual Banking business.
Australian Mutual
Established
1849.
Head Office:
87 Pitt St., Sydney
Provident Society
The Largest and Most Successful
Mutual Life Office in the British Empire,
Distributes a Cash Bonus Every Year.
Amount Distributed for single year 1926 £2,887,200
Yielding ' Reversionary Additions to
Policies of over .. .. .. £4,893,000
Accumulated Funds ~ .. . . £63,600,000
Annual Income £9,600,000
The Society transacts Every Class of Ordinary
and Industrial Assurance Business.
H. VV. APPERLY, F.S.S.. General Manager.
Shipping, etc.
CANADA, UNITED STATES,
UNITED KINGDOM
FORTNIGHTLY SAILINGS FROM SYDNEY.
CANADIAN-AUSTRALASIAN ROYAL MAIL LINE
via Auckland, Suva (Fiji), Honolulu, Victoria and Vancouver.
UNION ROYAL MAIL LINE
via Wellington, Rarotonga, Tahiti and San Francisco.
TAHITI ....... 7,900 tons, MAY 19, for San Francisco.
MAUNGANUI . 7,527 „ JUNE 2, for Vancouver.
MAKURA ..... 8,075 „ JUNE 16, for San Francisco.
AORANGI 17,400 „ JUNE 30, for Vancouver.
Fast and splen-
didly equipped
steamers using
oil fuel.
Spacious Decks,
Unrivalled
Cuisine.
m
m
m
m
m m
mmm
p|§§|g|®
i
The Scenic
Routes to the
United King-
dom, via South
Sea Islands,
Canada, United
States.
TICKETS TO THE UNITED KINGDOM INTERCHANGEABLE FOR RETURN
BY OTHER LINES.
HONOLULU EXCURSIONS COMMENCE JUNE 3.
UNION STEAM SHU* CO.
/Union House, 247 George Street, Sydney.
\ William Street, Melbourne.
MACDONALD, HAMILTON & CO., Brisbane. Adeiaide and Perth.
SOUTH SEA TOURS
Attractive Island Trips, occupying about ! t \ Weeks.
SIX-WEEKLY SAILINGS FROM SYDNEY TO
Mow ft rl l ai n ■
IICW fill IltSlil •
S.S. “MONTORO” (5000 tons)
Sails .Tune 28 ami Ansrnst. 9.
Solomon Islands:
S.S. “MATARAM” (3500 tons),
Sails June 8 and July 20.
A Delightful Holiday in Island Wonderlands.
For Particulars apply—
BURNS, PHILP & CO., LTD.,
Sydney, Melbourne, Adelaide and Brisbane.
m
?c
tm
C'-'j
BURNS, PHILP & CO., LTD.,
Passenger Booking Agents for All Steamship Lines
ENGLAND
EUROPE
AMERICA
CANADA
AFRICA
INDIA
JAPAN
CHINA
JAVA, etc,
At regular passage rates. No extra cliaige.
Attractive tour to
NOUMEA, JAVA, HONOLULU, COLOMBO, etc.
VISIT JAVA (The wonderland of the East).
Regular monthly sailings of the s.s. “Marella” and
ni.s. “Malabar” to Java and Singapore via Queensland
ports, Thursday Island, Darwin, etc. Smooth water trip,
Deck’ Cabins, interesting ports of call.
APPLY
BURNS, PHILP & COMPANY, LIMITED,
WORLD TOUR and TRAVEL DEPARTMENT,
7 BRIDGE STREET, SYDNEY.
South Africa and England
ABERDEEN LINE 1
BLUE FUNNEL LINE
WHITE STAR LINE
Joint
Service
A combined service offering unequalled
facilities at moderate rates.
:l: Sue vie ....
Ancliises . .
*Ascanius . .
vDemosthenes
* Nestor
12.500 tons, June 3
10,000 „ June 6
10,000 „ August 1
11.500 „ Sept. 8
15,000 „ Sept. 21
*First class only, fFirst and Third class.
t“Cabin” class only.
For full particulars apply to:
Dalgcty 8 Co., Ltd.
Gilchrist, Watt § Sanderson, Ltd.
I Joint
j Agents
Interstate Telegraphic address: Gable address:
“NALDHAM.” “NALDHAM.’
Macdonald, Hamilton # Co.
247 George Street, Sydney.
Shipping Agents, Merchants, Colliery
Proprietors, Tug and Lighter Owners.
MANAGING AGENTS FOB
Australasian United Steam Navigation Co., Ltd.
T'itzroy Estates, Ltd.
liiacklieath Collieries, Ltd., and Caledonian
Collieries, Ltd.
Eastern & Australian Steamship Co., Ltd.
AGIiNTS FOR
Britislr-India S. N. Co., Ltd. P. & O. S. N. Co.
Queensland line of Steamers. Scottish Shire Line
(Turnbull, Martin & Co.). New Zealand Shipping Co.,
Ltd. Canadian-Australasian Royal Mail Line, San
Francisco Service (Union S.S. Co.), Union S.S. Co.
of New Zealand, Ltd. Hain Line. Huddart Parker,
Ltd. London Assurance Corporation (Marine). Mel-
bourne Agents for Messngeries Maritimes Co. Queens-
land Agents for Sea Insurance Co., Ltd.
BRANCHES at Perth, Fremantle, Adelaide, Port
Adelaide, Melbourne, Suva (Fiji), Brisbane, Mary-
borough, Bunduberg and Bowen.
BANK OF
PAID-UP CAPITAL
RESERVE FUND .. ..
RESERVE LIABILITY ..
NIC W SOUTH
Established 1817.
•» A
WALES.
.. .. £6,875,000
.. .. 4,750,000
.. .. 6,875,000
£18,500,000
Dir ec tots:
Thomas Buekland, Esq., President.
The Hon Reginald J. Black, M.L.C.
Charles Binnie, Esq.
.James Burns, Esq.
Robert 1.. Faithfull, Esq., M.D.
Robert W. Gillespie, Esq.
Franc B. S. Falkiner, Esq.
Auditors: W. H. Palmer, Esq.; S. E. Laidlev, Esq. General Manager: OSCAR LINES.
Head Office —George Street, Sydney. London Office—29 Tlireadneedle Street, E.C. 2.
477 Branches and Agencies in the Australian States, Federal Territory, New Zealand, Fiji, Papua,
Mandated Territory of New Guinea and London. Agents and Correspondents throughout the world’
Cahle lCTU’Uatices made to, and drafts drawn on Foreign places DIRECT. Foreign Bills
r.cooti.itod ain l c<.Met ted, Letters of Credit Issued, negotiable throughout the world.
Shipping, etc,
Inter-State Steamship
Sailings.
(Passenger Sailings—Circumstances permitting.)
FOR MELBOURNE, ADELAIDE and FREMANTLE
(Transhipping at Melbourne for Geelong and other
Victorian ports; at Adelaide for S.A. Gulf ports;
and at Fremantle for Perth, Bunbury, Geraldtou
and North-West Ports).
FOR QUEENSLAND PORTS
(Transhipping at Brisbane for Maryborough, Bunda-
berg and Gladstone, and at Townsville for outports).
*Brisbane, Mackay (no cargo for Mackay), Townsville
ar (i cairns.
P. & O. via THE CAPE
SERVICE.
ONE CLASS ONLY.
To LONDON, via Durban Si Capetown,
Cares, from £37 to £45 to England, and
from £2l to £27 to South Africa.
AGENTS—GILCHRIST, WATT, SANDERSON.
I'el. 86701-2-3. 5 O’Connell Street, Svdiiey.
Wills, Gilciiiiist & Sanderson, Ltd., Brisbane.
John Sanderson & Co., Melbourne.
Geo. Wills & Co., Ltd., Adelaide.
HOTEL
METROPQLE,
. . . SYDNEY.
Opposite Union Club and Two Minutes
from Entrance to Domain and Circular
Quay .
TARIFF from 18/6 per (lay, or apart-
ments may be secured separately by the
day from 6/6 and upwards. Cards of Tariff
and all particulars posted on application
to The Manager.
Keep bopping and hoping if you wish'
to succeed — .think of
✓
SCHUTE
SELL& Cua.
if you have
Wool & Skins
to Sell.
Personal Attention.
Office?: 44 Bridge Street, Sydney.
ALL AUSTRALIANS visiting London
lt should read the BxuTisu Australian
ano New Zealander, 6d. weekly—an illus-
trated paper containing mail and cable news
from Australia and news of Australians in
Europe and at home. Australians are cordi-
ally invited to visit the British Australian
and New Zealander Reading-room at the
OHices, 414-17 Australia House, Strand,
London, WC.2, where they can see the home
papers, meet their friends, use the telephone
and obtain information without charge.
Copies of the paper and general information
can be obtained at the Australian Advertis-
ing Agency, Ltd., 350 George Street, Sydney,
or 434 Collins Street, Melbourne.
RUPTURE,
A FREE TRIAL.
If you are troubled with the complaint, write us and
we will send you our catalogue, fully describing our
PATENT AIR CUSHION APPL.IANCE.
This appliance does away with all cumbersome
springs, giving a feeling of ease and comfort from the
first day’s use. It is the most scientific appliance yet
invented for this complaint. It will hold a rupture
firmly and comfortably under all conditions.
To prove what we state
WE OFFER TO SEND IT TO YOU
ON A FREE TRIAL.
If it is not satisfactory we do not expect you to keep
it, and the trial costs you nothing. It is suitable for
men, women and children, and the price is within
the reach of all.
ILLUSTRATED CATALOGUE
posted free anywhere.
THE WINSLOW CO.
104 Queen Street, Melbourne. Vic.


m
m
o
m
m
m
P
Q
V
%
■
qr
M
t. ,
’ ■’. s'<' X/
- .1' ...
m
m.
x^adPr
'■mm
wm
brings
security from
disastrous fires
For many years fire appliances capable
of dealing with fires of an ordinary nature,
such as m ght occur in offices, have been
in general use, but the widespread in-
troduction of petrol and fuel oil saw the
advent of a fire risk demanding a new
extinguishing medium which would, in
addition, be adequate for dealing with
fires involving inflammable liquids. After
lengthy research, the last decade saw the
introduction of the FOAMITE method
of F re Protection with portable equip-
ment and fixed installations producing a
fire extinguishing medium (Firefoam)
which met this demand.
Fiercely blazing petrol, paint, tar—
which defy other extinguishing methods
—are easily smothered under Firefoam.
Ordinary fires die instantly. The foam
not only puts out the fire but prevents re-
ignition.
Send this coupon now to either of the
addresses given below.
Send copy of Booklet, “Extinguishing Oi! and
Other Fires,” to: —
Name • •
Address
BELDAM PACKING AGENCY
(AUSTRALIA), LTD.,
37 Sussex Street, Sydney.
GEORGE DOWNER & CO.,
ITenty House, 499 Tuttle Collins Street,
Melbourne.
ATKINS (W.A.), LTD.,
894 Hay Street, Perth.
MATTHEWS FIRE ALARM, LTD.,
City Buildings,
Edward Street, Brisbane, Q.
CLAUDE H. SMITH & CO.,
189 Gawler Place, Adelaide S.A.
Foamite fire
Protection
A Complete Engineering Service
Against Fire
w
w
Milk
made digestible.
Appetite is an important factor in
digestion. Benger’s makes fresh milk
appetising to everyone. Even those
who ordinarily do not like milk, relish
it as Benger’s Food.
For a change, Benger’s Food admits
of many easy variations in flavourings vanilla, chocolate,
coffee, etc. Benger's is, at the same time, one of the most
inexpensive and valuable of foods. A cupful of
7
at night, just before retiring, is one of the best ways to
ensure sound, healthy sleep.
Bengers Food is sold by Chemists and Stores everywhere.
Invalid Recipes in booklet,
post free from BENGER S FOOD, Ltd., 350, George St., SYDNEY.
Sole Manufacturers: Benger’s Food, Ltd., Otter Works. Manchester, England.
If any illustration in “The Bulletin” takes your
fancy, write to the Manager, who will quote you price
for the original.
FoUNTPENS
j§uib We/u 'Kami
Not until you actually try
out a cc Swan 55 Pen will you
realise that there is a shape
of nib, a style of barrel,
definitely designed to fit
your personal requirements.
FoUNTPENS
Our three-quarter century
of experience has reduced
pen-making to a fine crafts-
manship. This is evident
in the design and structure
found in every cc Swan ”
Pen. The vital writing point
is of osmi-iridium—durable
beyond all other substances.
FOUNTPENS
Visit your local Stationer or
Jeweller —he will show you
the full range of cc Swan ”
Self-filling Pens. Priced
from 17/6 upwards. Ask
for cc Swan ” Ink as well.
25
H
b
Mabie.Todd & Co., Ltd., 133 &1 3 5 Oxford St., London,W.
Factory : Swan Work',;, London, N.W.
Agents and Repair Service Depot:
PHIPSON & COMPANY, LTD.,
Broughton House 'CI Clarence Street, SYDNEY.
Ŗ


s?
32
A
\
1 ime to loJk®
S&eidona
„ Aew
SDidcowuj.
CKecfed Caidd.
"ITve
Packed m the famous Red Boxes and
mailed to you the day they are made.
Prices; 3/-, 5/6, 6/-,
10/-, 12/6, 20/- & 30/-
Post free to any address
in Australia.
Send for Catalogue, illustrated
with Reproductions of our
Confectionery, in color.
162-166 PITT STREET
BRANCHES:
CR. GEORGE & KING STREETS
CAS TEE TEA GII S TREET,
„„ NEXT THE AIRE ROYAL,
LI ' S YDNE Y.
i <
IVhat a lovely
s -f-Wt
I %
S 11
w%
,i\.
IL - V j
A
'Wifct
■m
'Me
s
o
m
H. I’& if 1 1
iiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiii
When Smudge-fires Smoke.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
WHEN smudge-fires smoke and crackle,
x\nd the smoke comes pouring forth,
I am back in the ancient forests,
I am back in the frozen North !
I am a queen of Britain ;
My people cry to me
To lead them forth in battle
That Britain may be free.
How the firelight gleams on my soldiers’
Rugged and hairy limbs!
How the throaty chorus rises
Of chanted battle hymns!
Ob, the battle-axe shall be bloody,
And the ancient bards shall sing
A new and epic story
Of a queen who conquered a king!
Of a queen who challenged a Caesar,
Mowed down his men like grass !....
Ho Slay, slay, slay, ye Britons!
Will ye let the Romans pass,
Taking your lands and your cattle
And your women across the waves?
Shall it be said of Britons,
“They lived to be made slaves”?
Or shall it be said that Nero
By Boadicea was spurned,
And the ranks of the Roman legions
By naked men were turned?
After me then, ye Britons!
All Hell will pay their tithes!
After me, chariots, chariots !
Mow, mow, sharp axle-scytlies !....
The smudge-fires smoke and crackle;
The smoke is pouring slow;
The long leagues of a thousand years
My spirit now must go,
But wait... .for a little serving-maid
Am I in the great queen’s train,
And a serving-man is love to me,
And we with love have lain,
I am a little tiring girl;
And the queen sighed whisperingly
That she would give me her queeniy right
To change her place with me,
To be in love with a serving-man,
A lowly man and a thrall;
For the high places, said my lady, the queen,
Are the loneliest of a 11....
But I would be Boadicea the Great,
Driving her chariot forth,
(When the smudge-fires smoke and crackle
In the wild woods of the North),
V ith her red hair flying wildly
As her chariot stallions’ manes,
And her strong arms stretched and tauten,
Straining the heavy reins,
And her soldiers flying after,
To die, so they do her will-
in their ears the witchwild laughter
Of forest and river and hill!. ...
The smudge-fires now are ashes ;
The morning wind has stirred ;
A magpie wakes the stillness,
Calling a butcher-bird,
And, stretching, I greet my subjects
And lords —and stately comes
The king of the northern forests,
The prince of the southern gums !
QUEENSLA.ND.
LLYWELYN LUCAS.
Pearls—and Ethics.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
T RAVERS drifted round the point on a
raft.
The three men sprawled on the beach
lazily raised themselves so that they might
better scrutinise the strange craft and its
passenger. They eyed the raft, the man upon
it; stared, for a brief moment, across the
strait to where Leper Island, a purple dot
in an opalescent sea, was limned by the
crimson of the setting sun.
“Another one!” snarled Lambert. “Three
in a year.”
Lambert, those yellow eyes of yours want
washing, sneered Cross. “Whoever he is,
hes not from the island. Look at the raft,
man; look at the raft!”
“Jesu!” laughed Lamerand. “You are
both fools! Lambert, he look at ze island.
Cross, he look at ze raft. But Jules Lamer-
and he look at ze man. It is ze pearl-man!
be, he! It is ver’ dam’ droll, is it not?”
“Frenchy, don't packle like that! Your
blasted ‘he, he, he’ bores into the brain like
'} 8??, • The pearl-man, eh? He’s a crazy
tool!”
. Bart Cross smiled cynically, glanced mean-
ingly at his companions, and then got to
nis feet. Jules Lamerand and Nat Lambert
reluctantly followed his example. The three
stood. Cross, the trader, yawning; Lambert,
die giant, yawning; Lamerand, the deformed,
yawning. The raft drifted slowly in towards
the white, sloping beach.
These three, the only white men on the
beach, were an unholy trinity. Bart Cross,
tue trader, was an uncrowned king. He was
a man of medium build, middle-aged, and
without fear of God or man. He had diced
"?th the Devil too often to be concerned
with powers Divine or human. His hair
"'as thick and matted, and grey at the
temples. His eyes were grey, each iris being
nmmed with a thin, black circle. His
clothes, like the clothes of his companions,
were tattered and stained. The tropic sun
bad burnt face, hands and feet a dark brown.
He owned the beach, and most of the people
who trod its gleaming sands. The pearl-
divers, male and female, drifting slowly to-
wards the beach in their dug-outs, were his
people. He was the Trader. This atoll
was his. The two white men beside him
were his. And they knew it.
Nat Lambert, gigantic, yellow-eyed,
utterly unprincipled, considered that he had
reached an earthly paradise when chance,
and an oil-freighter, had thrown him on to
Cross’s beach. Occasionally he executed
certain secret commissions for Cross, but,
apart from these tragic incidents he was
practically his own master. But Lambert’s
reasoning powers were primitive. He was
a huge white savage built solely for fierce
physical effort.
Jules Lamerand was a human ferret.
Swarthy, stunted, curved of spine, he was
the antithesis of the colossal Lambert. His
eyes were dark and piercing, and his long,
lank hair, black as jet, gave him a wild
gypsy appearance. He spoke several dia-
lects. He had the uncanny knack of smell-
ing out pearls deliberately concealed by the
natives. Yes, Lamerand was valuable to the
trader.
But he did not agree with Bart Cross
that Travers was a fool, even though he
hated the pearl-man. The silent Travers was
an enigma to the French ferret, and Jules
hated to be baffled.
“You think him a fool?” he grinned. “You
are wrong, my Bart. Some day he will be
successful.”
“Jules, you’ve been out in # the sun too
much!” scoffed Bart Cross. “There’s only
one thing can make a real pearl, and that
thing’s an oyster. Travers has grown half-
pearls—blisters—but in spite of his wooden
pegs, wax pellets and scientific jabber he’ll
never get an oyster to grow a perfect pearl
specially for him. We’ve seen him at it.
The oyster’s got to be real sick before it
makes a pearl. Travers don’t make them
sick. He only annoys them. Him make
pearls ! Bah ! He’s a fool!”
Nat Lambert gave a shout of boisterous
laughter. “Travers is mad!” he boomed.
“Those blasted niggers out there in the
dug-outs are the only people round this atoll
that’ll bring pearls out of the sea. I tell
you Travers is mad. What man who ain’t
mad ’ud try growin’ pearls, an’ teachin’
Bible piffle to the niggers in between times?
What’s he get both ways? Blisters! Half-
pearls ; half-Christians. Bart’s right. He’s
a fool, an’ so are you, Frenchy!”
“Name of a dog! Peeg! Imbecile! Your
eyes are in your belly! But what use to
talk with a clod? Jules should knew bet-
ter !” Lamerand shrugged his narrow shoul-
ders. “Bart, why does our savant journey
on a raft... .sacre Nom de Dieu!” ....
The patter of swift feet caused the French-
man to whirl. Bart Cross and Lambert also
turned from watching the incoming raft.
The trader scowled when he saw that a
native girl, superbly moulded, naked except
for a short kilt of bright trade-cloth, was
racing to meet the raft. Her long, blue-
black hair was plaited into two thick por-
tions that reached down to her hips.
Again Nat Lambert rocked with laughter.
“There y’are, Bart. The Bible wins. I
told you that girl of yours liked Travers.
You’ll lose her yet. See —she’s wadin’ out
to meet him. See him grin at her, the jinx!
Bible lessons don’t sting like a rope’s end.”
“Shut your fool’s mouth!” snarled Cross
savagely. “This beach belongs to me. So
does Aluma!”
The three men watched the flimsy raft
touch the beach; Aluma, every inch of her
alive and vibrant, skipped with delight when
Travers held her by the hand and smiled
at her. The pearl-man and the native girl
were momentarily silhouetted against the
shafts of the dying sun. Aluma placed both
her hands in his, and, for the moment, her
manner seemed ardent to the three watchers.
“Now there’s a pretty picture, Bart,”
chuckled Lambert. “It ’ud be too pretty
if she belonged to me.”
“Nat, forget about pictures! Get to the
house and dig out some of that special.
Travel's won’t drink the trade gin. Not
that he ever drinks much—-or talks much —
eh, Frenchy?”
Jules Lamerand spat contemptuously. His
dark eyes glittered as they surveyed Aluma
and Trovers. He waited until Lambert
walked away.
“Bart, my old, 1 think Travers has
something to tell us. Aluma is excited, and
our savant is not ill-pleased with himself.”
Lamerand was correct in his surmise. John
Travers greeted the trader with a smile.
Then he nodded to the Frenchman. Aluma
stood slightly behind him as though shield-
ing herself from the threat that, gleamed in
the trader’s eyes.
“I want to talk wuth you. Cross,” smiled
Travers. “But first of all I want to know
if you’ll trade Aluma?”
“Trade—-Aluma?” Bart Cross stood rigid
at this astounding proposition. Then he
sneered. “Getting tired of blisters and con-
verting the heathen, Travers?”
“I don’t produce blisters now, Cross. I
make pearls.”
“What?” The trader stared at Travers
unbelievingly.
Jules Lamerand’s eyes narrowed to slits
Aluma chuckled a full-throated chuckle of
delight. Travers, much like Cross in build
but unlike him in every other way, laughed
silently as he read astonishment, doubt,
belief, cupidity in the trader’s eyes.
“I have specimens here to convince you,”
he said. “And I’ll let you take your pick
for Aluma.”
“I want pearls—but, Aluma? Travers,
I never thought”
“Don’t begin now, Cross,” Travers quietly
advised him. “Your thoughts are sure to
be wide of the mark.”
Bart Cross peered searchingly into the
smiling eyes of Travers. He read in them
an unconcealed contempt for himself, and
a careless courage that even Nat Lambert
might have envied. The trader knew that
Travers would never bow to his will either
on the beach or off it.
“Travers, if you were a scoundrel I could
deal with you. But you missionary fel-
lows” —
“I am not a missionary, Cross,” inter-
rupted Travers. “I have a different code
to you, that’s all. I don’t flog or dose the
natives secretly with cheap alcohol. You
do. You use brute force to gain your pro-
(Continued on next page.)


but look to your lighting. The steady,
clear, comfortable radiance of “Con-
dor” Lamps is light in its ideal form.
Soft yet brilliant —the ultimate point
in domestic illumination.
0
ITAMPS
XfciO
• A . . '
j
jrr
mm.
\w
for every socket in your
house—every fitting in
your car.
“Condor” Radio Valves
have the same outstand-
ing virtues as “Con-
dor” Lamps your
radio set will be im-
proved by fitting them.
CONDOR LAMPS
(AUSTRALASIA) LIMITED
Sydney, Melbourne,
Adelaide, Brisbane,
Wellington, N.I. c
V.
Jr
fl
N
r
Late to bed and early to rise
ND so the good proverb is remembered —by
rv breaking it. Some girls have to be at dances
late at night. Some have to be at offices early in
the morning. Others have to be at both. No
wonder powder puffs wear out.
ENO’s “Fruit Salt” is for inner health. Being
an aid to Health, it is also among the best aids to
Beauty. ENO begins at the beginning mildly»
gently and naturally, keeping the vital organs it) tone
and tune, and the reward comes in good time —in
the form of freshness, colour, complexion and bloom.
Prepared only by
J.C. ENO, Limited.
London. England.
Sales Agents: The Brirish
Harold F. Ritchie & Co .
Ltd., Sydney, N.S.W.
I
♦ ♦
$
IN
TWO SIZES
AT CHEMISTS
AND STORES.
THE WORDS "FRUIT SALT
AND ENO
fits. I use my brains, and at last I have
met with complete success. You have made
this atoll notorious. Your methods are known
and detested throughout the group.”
“Don’t preach, Travers!” snarled Cross.
“I do business in my own way, and I’ll say
this: No man, white or_ black, has ever
put it over me. And what’s more, I’ll allow
no half-baked Bible-thumper to lecture me.
If you want to trade, we’ll do business. If
you want to preach, I’m off.”
“Very well, Cross. I see I’ll have to talk
to you in a language you understand. Now
we’ll talk pearls.”
“Ah, that’s better,” grinned Cross, sourly.
*‘l understand the language of pearls, but
this heart stuff of yours leaves me cold. Come
up to the house.”
“No, I’d rather not.” Travers glanced
quickly about him. “Listen, Cross. I don’t
want these natives to overhear our conversa-
tion. I have more than a suspicion that I
am being watched. _ I intend to leave this
group immediately, if possible.”
“Ah !” murmured Cross. Then he bright-
ened. “Well, that’s your affair. What about
my cutter? We can talk in the cabin with-
out being overheard. Suit you?”
Travers nodded.
The three men and Aluma walked, along
the rickety jetty in the gloom. Overhead,
a crescent moon sent down a pale light that
caused the gently-whispering palms to cast
weird shadows. The tropic night was warm
and scented. The dug-outs of the natives,
pulled on to the sloping beach, resembled
gigantic stranded fish. The placid lagoon
was a mirror reflecting moon and stars.
Farther out, the lazy surf caressed the reef
of coral.
Bart Cross peered calculatingly at Aluma
as she tripped lightly ahead of Travers. The
trader’s lips curved sardonically. Yes, he
would trade—perhaps.
Jules Lamerand lighted the swinging lamp
in the tiny cabin of the cutter. A swift
glance passed between the French ferret
and Bart Cross. Aluma, with the lithe grace
■of the native woman, reclined in the ham-
mock that stretched from wall to wall. Her
•dark eyes were glowing as she stared at the
three men. Slowly she unravelled one thick
braid of hair. Her parted lips, curved in a
.smile, revealed white teeth.
Aluma was laughing silently.
“This is a snug craft, Cross,” said Travers,
admiringly. “She’s eh?”
“Yes, she’s auxiliary. She’s the best sea-
boat, and the fastest, in the group. But,
although I keep her trim and ready, I hardly
ever use her. I could do without her.”
“I like this cutter. Tell you what I’ll
do. I’m leaving, as I said, so I’ll trade
you pearls for Aluma and the cutter. I’ll
do more. I’ll throw in the formula for mak-
ing pearls—if you agree to trade.”
“Look here, Travers, let’s see these
pearls you’re bragging about!” retorted
Cross, impatiently. “I’ll trade anything—
if the pearls are right.”
“Certainly, Bart Cross, stay just where
you are—Lamerand !” Travers stiffened
slightly.
“Zut! Do not mind me, M’sieur,” mur-
mured Jules indifferently.
"I don’t, in the least,” replied Travers
drily. “But when the pearls are up, I want
you both where I can see you. That’s better.
Now what do you think of these?”
Travers placed his handkerchief on the
table, and on the linen he gently spread the
pearls. He was not looking at the treasure.
He stared unwinkingly at Cross and Lame-
rand. Aluma’s chuckle was unheard. Slowly
the trader leaned forward. Travers’s other
hand slid quietly beside the pearls. It held
an automatic. Bart Cross sucked in his
breath and relaxed.
“Goddelmiglity,” he whispered. “Travers
. . . .did you make them?”
“I told you I’d be successful some day.
Cross,” Travers laughed. “There’s no need
to tell you these are real pearls. And they
are flawless. There’s fifty beauties there-.
This string would average about two thou-
sand dollars, United States money, a pearl.
Will you trade?”
“You said something about the formula?”
“Yes. I’m still going to make pearls, but,
not in this part of the Pacific. I’ll give you
permission to pick two pearls. For those
two pearls and the formula I take Aluma
and this cutter. I’m tired of the atolls. Is
it a deal?”
“It is!” grunted Bart Cross. “I’ll take
this” -
“Don’t finger them, Cross! Just point,
and I’ll pass them over.”
“I’ve got about as many as these planted
safely at the house,” grinned Cross. “Don’t
ask how I got them. I got them —eh,
Frenchy? But —to grow them like cabbages
—hell! I’ll take that one—and that. Thanks.
Now write me the formula.”
“One moment!” Travers carefully gathered
up the remainder of the pearls. "I’ll want
food and fuel.”
“They’re here. There’s food for a month,
and oil for a week’s running. Still, I’m
satisfied. The formula, Travers, the for-
mula !”
“Thinking we might trade, I prepared it.
Here it is.” Travers unfolded the sheet of
paper and handed it to Cross. The trader
scowled when he glanced at it.
“Blast it! I can’t read this stuff,” he
growled. “What?”
“You have a mirror at your house, Cross?”
“Yes.”
“Well, when no one is looking over your
shoulder, just hold that paper in front of the
glass. You’ll read it straight off.”
“Ah, yes. Old dodge! Never thought of
it, Travers. You’re no fool for a text
slinger. When are you leaving?”
“Now. I’ve a fortune in my shirt, and
though I like to trust my fellow men, I’m no
fool, as you say.”
“Well, if you’re doubtful about the reef,
give Aluma the wheel. She could take you
through with her eyes shut.”
“Thanks, Cross. Just throw the ropes
aboard when you step on to the jetty, will
you?”
“Don’t mind a bit,” laughed Bart Cross.
“Travers, you’re a bird! Ain’t he, Frenchy?
Come on, Jules, we'll leave them to it. But
you’re sure the formula is right?”
“Cross, I told you before, we’ve got dif-
fpvprij-
‘‘All right-all right!” growled Cross. “The
pearls you traded are genuine, so I’ll take
a risk with tile formula. But what the devil
you want with Aluma, and you religious,
beats me. You’re a kinky crew, you preachers.
Where are you heading for?”
The spluttering cough of the engine made
Travers pause. Cross grinned, ,
“I told you Aluma knows the boat back-
wards. Keep your eye on her, Travels;
You’ll find her devilish hard fo resist it
she’s in the humor. Come On; Frenchy!”
“Bart Cross, I indy heyef seb ydu again;
said Tracers quietly. “SO before I go I
implore Jrott to tfefffc these dusky children
as human. beings. They have feelings just
aS you find I have. If you even said a word
in season, sometimes”
“Cut the bunk!” rasped Cross testily.
“It’s no use talking that rot to me, Travers.
The trouble with you fellows is you don’t
know men. I do. You’re too simple, Travers.
Why, even in our last deal I wangled a
thousand dollars above value. You want to
be more careful, Travers, or someone’ll skin
yon of them pearls.”
“Good-bye, Cross. I regret to hear you
rejoice at open theft. Perhaps, some day,
you will realise that there ought to be honor,
even among thieves. Perhaps I should not
have given you that formula.”
“Well —I’ve got it!” gritted the trader.
“And I don’t-care how soon you clear out.”
Travers did not reply. He gently fended
the craft from the jetty. Aluma, still chuck-
ling spasmodically, gripped the wheel. The
cutter moved forward, and, gathering speed,
swept towards the channel that gave access
to the open sea. Presently it vanished from
sight, and only the faint chug-cliug of the
engine told that it moved upon the dimly-lit
water.
“Well, Frenchy, what d’ye think of him,
now?” laughed Bart Cross.
Jules Lamerand paused in his stride. He
turned and stared thoughtfully at the de-
serted jetty.
“It ver’ dam’ queer,” he murmured.
“Bah!” snorted Cross. “I told you he was
a fool, didn’t I? Didn’t he even;give me the
formula?”
“He did, my old. That is ze dam’ queer
thing I mean.”
“Why?”
Lamerand shrugged. “This Travers he
does not love you, my Bart. How could he?
It ver’ dam’ queer.”
“Oh, blast you—shut up!” snarled Cross.
Nat Lambert was helping himself liberally
to the trader’s special gin. Bart Cross
glared at the giant. Then he strode to the
table and snatched up the almost empty
bottle.
“Blast it—you hog!” he roared, “D’ye
think I keep that stuff for you to guzzle?
Lay off it!” ...
“Where’s Aluma?” Lambert’s lip curled
derisively.
“Sold!” snapped the trader.
“Didn’t I hear th’ cutter movin’?”
“Tliat’s sold, too. Anything else you’d like
to know ?” Cross glared at the huge .Lam-
bert. Lambert glared back at the trader,
but his yellow eyes soon faltered and fell.
“Don’t get nasty,” he growled. “They’re
both yours to sell, 1 B’posfi.”
“Fetch that looking-glass, Freiichy,”
Jules Lamerand procured the cracked sym-
bol of civilisation and passed it to the trader,
Bart Cross grinned as he propped the glass
tip on the tabid, ...
“i’ll read it by thyself!” lie tbld them.
. Jules Lamer And nodded indifferently, hut
his,dyes gleamed resentfully. Nat Lambert,
dull of eye, and rapidly feeling the effects of
the gin fumes, stared uncompteheudingly.
Cross held the paper before the glass and
began to bead.
Even Lambert was stirred from his lethargy
by the trader’s savage yell. Jules-Lamerand
stared. Cross, white-faced and trembling,
allowed the paper to flutter to the boor.
Then, without a 'word, he hounded into the
next room. Lambert and Lamerand heard
him ripping the rotten planks that served for
a floor. He was cursing fearfully. Then the
listeners heard him gasp as though in pain.
His voice, a husky whisper, penetrated the
mat partition.
“Gone gone ! Goddelmighty they re
gone. .. .my pearls !”
Bart Cross lurched back into the presence
of the two men. His face was bloodless; his
eyes wild and staring. He panted as he
pointed through the doorway towards the
moonlit lagoon.
“After them after them.... after
them!” His voice rose to a scream. Aithout
a glance at the two men_ he leaped from the
house and raced for the jetty.
Nat Lambert staggered _to his feet. His
eyes bulged. His expression was ludicrous.
He did not understand.
“Wh what til’.... what.... Frenchy,
what til’ ” ——■ Without finishing the sen-
tence he flopped back oil to the bench.
Jules Lamerand bent swiftly and picked up
the formula. He could hear Cross down at
the jetty raving and roaring. He heard the
sound of running naked feet. He held the
paper before the glass and read { .
“Thanks for the pearls, Cross. Patience
is a virtue, and it wins out sometimes.
Aluma and I offer out* compliments. You
certainly’ are a judge of pearls. As I have
told you often, we have different codes, you
and I. but, I said nothing about ethics, did
I? Aluma wishes you to remember her m
your prayers. You were difficult, but she
found the peal-is at last. A word of advice!
Don’t bother about pearl culture. Its a
poor paying game, unless you play it my
way. Be kind to the dear dusky children of
nature,”
Jules Lamerand placed the paper on the
table. He turned slowly and walked to the
open doorway. His eyes were dark pools as
they stared out over the lagoon. His features
expressed amazement. Then came admira-
tion, sincere and profound. Slowly he ges-
tured to the wave-washed reef.
“Salut!” he murmured. “M’sieur Travers
I admire!”
EDWARD VIVIAN TIMMS.


ii
*
■ ’
WESTINGHOUSE
Morse Silent Rocker-Joint
CHAIN DRIVES
Ensure minimum wear—
Maximum life and highest
efficiency.
Chains in stock—wheels manu-
factured to suit requirements.
Write for particulars
and Booklet BM 414.
THE WESTINCHOUSE BRAKE CO.
OF AUSTRALASIA LTD.,
Queensland Agents—HOLMES « CHURCH, Brisbane.
N.Z. Office—93-107 Eeatherston Street, Wellington.
Victorian Office—99 Queen Street, Melbourne.
CONCORD WEST, N. S. Wi
South Australian Agents: Messrs. ELDER, SMITH & CO., LTD., Adelaide, S.A.
THE MOST EFFICIENT MOWER ON EARTH.
KITCO
■m MOTOR MOWER
AT SPECIAL CUT PRICES FOR THE
1926 SEASON.
dfg
The ATCO will make a very strong appeal to those faced with the neces-
sity of keeping in order large areas of turf, i.e., secretaries of cricket, golf, lawn
tennis, and bowling clubs, proprietors of estates of an acre or more, members of
park committees, hotelkeepers, &c.
It is fitted with a 25-h.p, engine, which develops more than sufficient power
both to propel the machine and operate the cutter, thus requiring only one at-
tendant for guiding purposes.
The running cost of an “Atco,” 1 thanks to the scientific precision of its con-
str‘J ct,on . is remarkably low. Ah operator can very easily and completely cut
1000 square yards of turf on a fuel consumption of a 'juarter-pint of petrol and
oil mixture.
A twin silencer and an extra exhaust pipe (turned sideways to avoid annoy,
ance to operator) ensure extra quiet running of engine.
With the object of making this ALL-BRITISH MOWER more popular on
the Australian market, we are offering them for season 1926 at specially reduced
Full stocks on hand.
PRICES:—I4in. cutters, £47/10/-: 16in £57/10/-' 18in
£67/10/-; 22in., £B2/10/-; 24in., £93/10/-; 30in„ £llO each
Printed matter supplied with pleasure on application.
REPRESENTATIVES:
D. AND W. CHANDLER LIMITED,
276-294 BRUNSWICK STREET, FITZROY,
And 234-236 FLINDERS LANE, MELBOURNE,
NEW SOUTH WALES REPRESENTATIVES r
WHYSALL AND BROWN,
BOX 16, KING STREET P. 0., SYDNEY.
If any illustration in
'' . ' t’.-'-y ..... ' i, . ' ' ' If?'
THE I
to the MANAGER, who will
; t -
takes your fancy* write
quote you price for the original.
; .vV W%,
Your Ammunition
Is Half the Hunt!
Hi-Pownr Car-
tridge 3 include
.22 H. P., .250-
3000, .300, 30-
30, .303, .25-20,
and .32-20, for
Savage Models
Nos. 99,20 and
The Sportcr.
YOUR rifle is no more effective
than the cartridges you use.
And, for your Savage Rifle, es-
pecially, the Savage cartridge is
a necessary adjunct. The internal
and external ballistic standards
of Savage Cartridges have been
developed according to the re-
quirements of Savage Rifles
and assure utmost accuracy.
Savage Hi-Power
Hi-Power Ammunition is sought every-
where for its unusual velocity, flat tra-
jectory, all-’round dependability.
Be sure to insist on Savage ammunition
for Savage Rifles.
Exclusive Representative for Australia and New Zealand
P. O. Box 966 ASHER SMITH, Ltd. Sydney, N. S. W.
SAVAGE ARMS CORP., Export Offices: 100 East 42d St.. New York, U. S. A.
Owners and Operators of J. Stevens Arms Co. and Page-Leneis Arms Co.
1%
i
k:
r
Take
#
Sick Headache
Indigestion
Constipation
Biliousness
Torpid Liver
and to secure
Sound Health
in
boxes
!/■
V
THE CRYPTOGRAM
THE GREAT SHAKESPEAREAN WHERE IS IT!
THE SEARCH FOR GOLD AND A CHANCE OF WINNING THE
£lOOO GOLDEN HELMET.
£5O IN PRIZES FOR A CRYPTOGRAM SOLUTION, AND £6666
IN PRIZES IN THE
N.S.W. FIRE BRIGADES’ ART UNION.
For the Hospitals and Ambulances of the State.
.. t (Sanctioned by the Attorney-General),
special distribution of luO in Frizes to those who can discover a quotation from Shake-
speare in the Cryptogram in this advertisement.
The First Prize in the Fire Brigades’ Art Union for the
Hospitals and Ambulances is a Fireman’s Helmet of Pure
Gold, weighing over 201 b., and valued at £lOOO in Sterling
Cash.
€
THIS Helmet that shines OUT like burnished gold In
times of danger, we FIND was in use in THE heroic
ages, AND it still REMAINS the symbol of deeds of re-
nown. No matter what the CAUSE may be, when fires
break out, when danger threatens life and limb, WE look
to the men in the golden helmets to EFFECT a save.
And so it has come to pass THAT all OF us NOW look
the Fire Brigades to heAp the Hospitals. Send your
Shillings along, for they help you and they help the
community you live in.
* n \ e above Paragraph there are twelve words printed In
capital letters Assemble these words and make them read
as a quotation from Hamlet, Act 11. Enclose the answer in
The Old Pot of Luck, an envelope w ith a shilling for a ticket in the Art Union.
3475 Chances for £l. ?‘ le . answers will he placed in a separate barrel and the
firct DRI7C cod rur place immediately after the Art Union.
r!£ S I. FO £. THE ANSWER TO THE CRYPTOGRAM, £2O; Second Prize, £5;
f'.° n Pr, ? es of , V, 6ach 1 < Twenty Consolation Prizes of 10/- each; and
Forty insolation Prizes of 5/~ each.
The Prizes will be awarded according to the way in which the correct answers are
drawn out of the barrel. Every Ticket purchased through the post will carry an
answer. Send on separate slips as many aimvers as you take tickets, and remem-
ber 25 Tickets for £1; 12 tickets for 10/; 6 tickets for 5/.
The solution of this Cryptogram known dnly to the Secretary has been lodged
under seal with the Commercial Bank ing Company of Sydney/ Ltd. (Pitt and
Bathurst Streets Branch).
Now, get busy. Consult 0 MEE’A TT, of Fortune, King of Luckbring-
ers, and Inventor of Send Round the Hat.
N.S.W. FIRE BRIGADES’ ART UNION FOR THE HOSPITALS AND AMBUL-
ANCES OF THE STATE (Sanctioned by the Attorney-General).
FIRST PRIZE:—A Solid Gold Fireman’s Helmet, Valued at £lOOO.
This is a veritable Pot of Luck.
Other Prizes:—2nd, Studebaker Six, £845; 3rd, Thornycroft Jketor Lorry, £641;
4th. Six-Cylinder Nash, £395 ; sth, Austin IFive-seater, £395; 6th, Buick Touring
Car, £395; 7th. Essex Coach, £299; Bth, Sliulz Player Piano, £225; 9th, Victor
£212: and 130 other Prizes valued at from £275 to £4/10/-.
TICKETS, 1/-. BOOKS OF 25 FOR £1;; 12 TICKETS FOR 10/-; 6 TICKETS
rU li 0/ -*
3475 CHANCES FOR £l.
Write to the Secretary of the Fire Brigades’’ Art Union, Circular Quay Station.
Sydney, N.S.W.
Write plainly, state whether Mr., Mrs., or Bliss,
Drawing takes place at Fire Brigade Headquarters on August 10. Positively
no postponement. Closing date July 27.
Send Stamped and Addressed Envelopes for Ticket rend Result Slip.
J. J. NEVILLE, Hon. Sec.
HARBOR TOURIST TRIPS
Weather and other circumstances permitting.
Prom Fort Macquarie at 10.15 a.mi. and 2.15 p.in.
EVERY TUESDAY AND EVE RY THURSDAY.
on M
SPECIAL TRIP EVERY SUNDAY .„»!» No. 6 JETTY, CIRCULAR QUAY
Sydney Ferries, Ltd.
Tels.: 86276 (4 line.). A ‘ ,Ult8 ' 1/6 Chil,lre,n '


\
\
ill
i
\
■s
I
MALTESE
CROSS
WAX VESTAS
In me wind -
In the wet
You need a match
that is sure to
strike—a match
that will hold its
flame till its job is
done. ... Try
MALTESE CROSS
WAX VESTAS
in their neat, easily-
pocketed box.
M
§
I £5
zm®
m
E IN
§
%$T
BALIA m
PRICE
