

9
99
m s
1
Let Kodak
Develop your
Holiday
Pictures.
I*l
Let Kodak
Develop your
Holiday
Pictures.
Brighter, clearer snapshots—the best from every
film—that’s what you gain from Kodak’s photo-
graphic knowledge and world-wide resources. For
your protection the words “Kodak Print’’ appear
on the back of each, and it’s worth your while to
look for them. They are your guarantee of quality
work through and through.
Kodak’s own service
KODAK (Australasia) Pty. Ltd.
379 George Street and “The Block,” 284 Collins Street,
108 Market Street, Sydney. and 161 Swanston Street,
250-52 Queen Street, Brisbane; Melbourne.
and The Valley. 37 Rundle Street, Adelaide.
45 Elizabeth Street, Hobart. Hay Street, Perth.
Ruthven Street, Toowoomba; Flinders Street, Townsville; East
Street, Rockhampton; “The Kodak Corner,” corner Lamb-
ton Quay and Willis Street, Wellington, N.Z.
The Bulletin
Vol. 48.—N0. 2498.
See page $.
Thursday, December 29, 1927.
Price 6d.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper,


VV7RITE for the 1927 New Library Cata-
vv logue, which is now ready and will be
sent post free with full terms and particulars
on application to
DYMOCK’S BOOK ARCADE, LTD.,
428 George Street, Sydney.
Be a proud
possessor
of a
LOEWE
Look for the LOEWE
Mark
pOR 70 years Loewe pipes
A have remained London’s best
briars. There is no secret about
the reputation they have won in
the Mother Country of being
“the best pipe of all.” This
reputation has been built of
honest endeavour to maintain
the Loewe achievement of
pipe perfection. Smoke a
Loewe Briar and you will
immediately appreciate what
this means.
DISTINCTIVE FEATURES
Bowl cut from the heart of
naturally matured briar root.
Mouthpiece cut by hand from
pure Para vulcanite.
Weight and balance perfect.
Solid Silver mounted.
Complete pipe made by hand by
»killed London craftsmen.
&c?
k\l
o implex
Medium*
ONE OF THE MANY
LOEWE SHAPES
&//LOEWE
shapes
- /
2Y-
SILVER
MOUNTED
kĵk;kj;kl'l
kĵk;kj;kl'l
Write for Illustrated Booklet. L. M= BROWNE, BOX 555, G.P.0., SYDNEY, N.S.W.
&
*A
■■■y.
HAIR
BEAUTY
DWLLEN'S
MEXICAN
Dr. Allen’s Mexican
Walnut Stain will
tint the hair to any
desired shade. It is
simple to apply and
harmless in effect.
From all Chemists
and Stores at 4/-
a bottle.
Manufactured by
Duerdin <£ Sainsbury,
Ltd., Melbourne.
The appearance of the
hair is a great factor
in the creation of a
beautiful face. Many
women who would be
otherwise “plain” are
saved by “that crown-
ing glory” a wonderful
head of hair of pleas-
ing appearance. As
soon as a silver thread
of grey makes its ap-
pearance friends put it
down to commencing
old age. There is a
stain known as Allen’s
Mexican Walnut Stain
that will instantly re-
move all signs of grey,
and every woman who
wishes to preserve her
youthful looks, at the
first tell - tale sign
should procure a
bottle of—
kĵk;kj;kl'l
Next year the bigger “Bulletin” won’t print as many short stories as the
Saturday Evening Post,” but there will be over 200 of them, as good or
better, and they will be Australian. Buy “The Bulletin”—bigger afnd better.
• •
rm
Sh
»*’ 4
• «*»
m
7
PRICE 1/-
-*Ji
FLIES
The Red Page
A Year’s Record
The year 1927 will look fairly well in our
future literary textbooks in regard to its
own achievement and its promises for the
future.
Somehow it has alwaj'S been taken for
granted that Australian literature is much
stronger in verse than in prose. We have
had assertions like that made in passing by
the compiler of our newest verse anthology,
that our prose as compared with our
verse is negligible. It is doubtful whether
this was ever true, but at any rate there
are signs of a tide setting in the opposite
direction now, when little of our verse is
distinctive and much new ground is being
broken by prose. Clearly, too, our prose
is now taken seriously; it is significant that
The Bulletin's innovation of literary
prizes during the next three years is
directed not to poetry but to the novel.
First, though, look at our prose in the past.
People who say, “Of course, Australia is
weak in prose,” have a right to their
opinion if it is held after reading all the
important novels that have appeared, but
only then. To my mind, a country that
has produced such varied and powerful
books as those by Marcus Clarke, Joseph
Furphy (“Tom Collins”), Henry Lawson,
Louis Stone and Henry Handel Richardson
has shown no cause to be despised. The
books have appeared, the ground has been
covered. What happened afterwards,
though, was that always more critical
attention was given to verse than prose.
The belief that Australia produced good
verse but poor novels was cumulative, and
smothered what good novels managed to
appear. Verse was kept more or less alive
by anthologies, but novels did not reach the
new editions that would give them a con-
tinuity of existence. Louis Stone’s “Jonah,”
for instance, is acknowledged to be a minor
masterpiece, but how many people say that
at first hand? How many say it at all, or
allow for it when they make their sweeping
statement that our novels are poor?
Meanwhile prose has undoubtedly been
developing. Looking back at our last serious
anthology of short stories, The Bulletin’s
Story Book, published 30 years ago, we
must realise that the art of the short story
has progressed among us since then. Those
neat sketches were often like fine vignettes,
not full-page drawings. They had good
material, better often than our present-day
writers handle or are encouraged to use;
but the general standard of short-story
writing to-day is much higher, even in our
most casual weeklies. With the general
standard raised, we find, once in a way, this
capacity united with power and imagination
to give us a masterly story like “The Coo-
boo,” in The Bulletin last March.
Short stories have mostly been left for-
gotten in the files of journals. A few
novels do appear in book form. This year
there appeared simultaneously an un-
matched pair; Katharine Prichard’s “Work-
ing Bullocks,” an iridescent piece of impres-
sionism, and Chester Cobb’s matter-of-fact
'‘Days of Disillusion.” The first book had
“a good press” and received warm and dis-
criminating approval, but was badly dis-
tributed, being unobtainable in various
capitals for months together just when
readers were prepared for it. The second
received a few notices, which said in the
briefest possible paragraph that it was a
perfectly good novel (as if good novels
were usual!); but I cannot see that even in
the months when it was new, and even in
Sydney, where it was set, “Days of Dis-
illusion” was ever “in the news.” The same
can perhaps be said of Hector Bolitho’s
“Solemn Boy,” which was reviewed much
more seriously overseas than here. This
immediate neglect would not matter, of
course, if it were to be followed by per-
manent recognition. We all know, though,
that there are so few methods in Australia
of recording books for future readers that
we must make the most of the prominence
a book can expect through being new.
An unexpected book published this year
was H. G. Adam’s “An Australian Looks
at America.” It is a collection of certain
articles contributed to the press while he
went through America with thfe trade
delegation this year, but it does not read
like a reprint of hurried journalism. The
articles as they appeared did not read like
that, but were “bold, cautious, true,”
written with a sense of real values all
through. His interviews with leaders are
real interviews, making people reveal them-
selves individually; his consistent deduc-
tions are not usually such as his American
informants would expect him to draw.
Altogether the book is an indication that
Australia is discarding its rather naive out-
look and becoming mature and indepen-
dent.
Prose of another kind again, wrestling
with nature, but not with human nature,
appears in “The Platypus,” a work of the
kind called monumental, by Harry Burrell.
Against all odds, Australia is gradually
building up a body of scientific works
based on our extraordinary flora and fauna.
It will be long before our. creative literature
conquers anything like such a strong posi-
tion; our publishers are more willing to
handle a platypus than a psychological
novel. We can only be glad that at least
the platypus has been well studied and
recorded before his extinction.
There have been two volumes of essay
as such, by Francis Jackson and Alan
Mickle. Clearly these essays were of un
even interest, some more provocative tha:
others; they were written by people wit
strong opinions which they would hav
been willing to support under attack. Tnei
views were not attacked; they were no
mentioned. The books were listed as very
nice books—of which the world is rathe
full already. What a writer is entitled to
expect, when he writes at the top of hi
form, is not a mere width in his public, bu
a depth of attention in a few readers. Bu
these few perfect readers can only be
reached by a careful reviewing of the
books. And how many of our papers give
even a tenth of the attention to reviewing
that thejr do to football and frocks?
In saying that verse had received dis
proportionate attention, I did not meai
that it should be ignored. Perhaps it i
rdere space, rather than attention, that i
has received, for a deeper attention woulc
have shown us more clearly the gulf that
lies between verse and poetry. This year
our poetry shows more promise than fulfil-
ment, but some of the promises fall due
even while I write. The literary work, ir
prose and verse, of that significant com-
poser, Henry Tate, is being published post-
humously. Shaw Neil son’s “New Poems,”
in a simple edition, is due in November;
his work is like a quiet star whose beams
after 30 years begin to reach our earth.
The danger that his name would be
far better known than his poems is
averted by this new volume. Another
announcement is that the striking poems of
the late Lesbia Harford are to be published,
mostly from manuscript. Angus and
Robertson announce a solid volume of
selected work by M. Forrest.' Jessie Mac-
kay’s small interim volume, “Bride -of the
Rivers,” was dated at the end of last year.
We still await a collected volume from her.
On the whole, a year empty of poetry so
far; but indeed few books have appeared
since the post-war efflorescence about 1920,
when Australia, like the rest of the world,
was publishing a good deal of serious work.
Since then one records little but C. H.
Souter’s racy book, “The Mallee Fire,” in
1923, a book by Shaw Neilson in the same
year, one of Frederick Macartney’s and one
of Dorothea Mackellar’s. Perhaps there
will soon be another rising wave. Mean-
while it was fortunate that before anything
new burst upon us there should be a new
summary of our verse. This was done
lately by Percival Serle, whose collection,
“An Australasian Anthology,” showed a
conspicuously thorough knowledge of our
poetical achievements.
The portent of Authors’ Week deserves
to be recorded. Apparently originating with
the booksellers, who were alarmed by the
traffic in imported remainders that was
being done in drapers’ bargain basements
(“darned tragic basements,” as someone
wrote after Keats), the idea of devoting a
week to the work of Australian authors was
taken up enthusiastically in all the capitals.
Some confusion, of course, was inevitable,
through the lack of clear and common pur-
poses in the minds of the mixed company
of booksellers, educationists and critics
who joined in the festival. Was it intended
to advertise all Australian books, of what-
ever type or quality? Or to draw attention
to good work in the past that had been
neglected? There was an attempt in one
quarter to unhorse Gordon from his tradi-
tional seat, and many weighty opinions
about literature were expressed by mayors
and magnates. After all, though, the general
effect of the week was to create a public
interest in Australian work, and several
good books that had long been forgotten
were disinterred.
Yet, glancing at many of the books com-
ing from our own printing-presses, it seems
necessary to distinguish between publishing
in Australia and Australian publishing. Our
important fiction for this year has, in time-
honored fashion, been obliged to fight its
way past the indifference of English pub-
lishers. On the other hand, most of the
books issued from our own houses have
been reprints of harmless but unnecessary
novels from overseas. A queer reversal of
roles! The exploitation of our taste for
imported futilities is perhaps one legitimate
field for our publishers, but they have no
right to canalise the sentiments generated
by Authors’ Week to help them in this
activity. That is to try making the best of
both worlds—the Australian omnivorous
reader and the fruitful overseas writer of
best-sellers.
Such are some results of a year’s stock-
taking. If a few articles of value have been
overlooked in the reckoning, so much the
better for the state of the business. And
there seems a likelihood of a good year in
1928.
NETTIE PALMER.
State Archives of South Australia
In North-terrace, Adelaide, alongside the
Museum, is a finger-post pointing the way
to the Archives. A minute’s walk and there
appears an old stone building with a high-
pitched roof. It looks like a church, but
(Continued on page 5.)


Anthony Horderns*
are complete suppliers of all well-constructed
Agricultural Implements
£3/151-
%
XTSSI
No. 11 Double- and Single-wheel Hoe. The No. 11 is a very com-
plete tool for the home or market gardener. The 6in. and 4fin. hoes
are the greatest weed-killers known; the cultivator teeth give thorough
cultivation; ploughs are used for opening and closing furrows, hilling
up plants, etc. As with the double-wheel hoe, the gardener can
straddle the row until the plants are 20in. high, cultivating both sides
at one time. Equipment: Pair of 6in. hoes, pair of hoes, four
steel cultivator teeth, pair of ploughs, 3-tooth and two 5-tooth rakes,
pair of leaf lifters £3/15/-
an
m.
ST
mi
Ml
XTSA3
Ransomes’ Improved
Chain Harrows
land, dressing meadows, covering weeds
and reducing clods. Being made entirely
of diagonal wrought-iron links, working
loosely in each other, they have the pro-
perty of cleaning themselves from all
accumulation of soil.
Stocked in the following sizes:
5 ft. x 7ft. 6in £4/5/-
6ft. x 7ft. 6in £5
Bft. x 7ft. 6in £6/7/S
10ft. x 7ft. 6in £7/18/6
mm
mm
mmmm
rwfil
5S5S#5i«;«
i*W*tw«W*
«S«S»sis »S*s«S*2
221-ISiSI
m
mmm
I X. X j-t.M
ttJMB.'M
S!C
*;
i;
-V.','
•••Mill
t - x -
Ransomes’ Defiance Discs Ploughs
Ransomes' Defiance Disc Ploughs are manufactured throughout from
the very highest-grade materials. Exceptional clearance is allowed
under the beams and between the bodies, thereby minimising the
danger of choking when ploughing very weedy land. The Defiance
has a coupled form of steerage, the steering of the front furrow wheel
and the hind furrow wheel being effected simultaneously by the one
steering level of the plough. This enables the plough to be steered
by one lever either to the right or to the left. The advantage of this
arrangement is complete power over the steerage of the plough when
turning at the headlands.
Width and Depths of Average
Size of Plough. each Furrow in inches. Weight. Price.
1 - “Defiance” .. 9to 1 2 wide x6to 1 0 deep . . 8001 b. £29/10/-
2- “Defiance” ..9to 1 2 wide x6to I 0 deep. . 9801 b. £47/10/-
3- “Defiance” ..9to 11 wide x6to 10 deep ..11 301 b. £52
TRY THE DEPOSIT-PURCHASE SYSTEM
J
/
Reliable Quality Parts
for renovations of all descriptions.
High-grade Coachbuilding materials assure lengthy
service. Anthony Horderns’ selection is most
comprehensive and includes materials of a reliable
manufacture only. The outstanding values are
characteristic of the “House of Economy. A pro-
fusely illustrated “Coachbuilding and Saddlery ’
Catalogue will be sent post free on request.
“A”-Grade Spotted Gum Sarven Wheels,
x 3ft. 6in., 3ft. Bin., 3ft. 1 Oin. or 4ft.
Per pair 75/9
“A”-Grade Spotted Gum Sarven Wheels,
111 x 3ft. Bin., 3ft. 1 Oin., 4ft. Per pair . . 87/*
Craxe and McMahons’ American Hickory
Sarven Wheels, If x 4ft. and 4ft. 2in. high.
One Star quality. Per pair £4/18/-
1| x 4ft. and 4ft. 2in. high. One Nut quality.
Per pair £5/17/-
Hardwood Wheels (Ironbark Naves and Spokes
and Blue-gum Felloes), 1 x 4ft. 6in. Per
pair £5/15/-
2in. x 4ft. 6in. Per pair £6/8/-
Sulky Shafts, 2 in. x 1 £in. x 12ft. Per pair 8/3
2\ x 1 fin. Per pair 8/9
1\ x 1 fin. x 12ft. Per pair 9/6
Trying, Hooping and Boxing Wheels (boxes
sold with axle, or supplied by customer).
lfin. Per pair 47/-
1 fin. Per pair 51/6
lfin. Per pair 79/-
2in. Per pair
Cart Shafts, 2*in.l x 2iin. x 12ft. Per
pair 12 / 3
2fin. x 2fin. x 12ft. Per pair 13/6
3in. x 3in. x 10ft. Per pair 14/3
Dressing 3/9 extra
Sulky Shafts 3/9 extra
Cart Shafts up to 3 x 3 4/- extra
Over 3 x 3 3/* extra
High Back Panel Seats, 36, 38 and 40 in.
Each 22 / 9
High Back Spindle Seats, 36, 38 and 40 in.
Each 36/9
Motor Back Seats, 36, 38 and 40 in. Ea. 34/6
Sets of Sulky Trimmings, consisting of Fall,
Spring Cushion and Squab, Dull Black, Green
or Claret color. Per set 56/-
Motor Seat Trimmings. From, per set. . 66/9
Sets of Sulky Wrought-iron Work, consisting
of 1 span iron, pair of three-prong steps, pair
of seat rails, pair of squab back irons, pair of
lamp irons, pair of shaft clips, pair of dash-
board irons, pair of tray irons, set of wingboard
irons, set of W.T. bar mounts, and span iron
clips. For short tray sulky. Set .... 63/-
For Long Tray Sulky. Per set 67/-
Anthony Horderns’
Postal Address: Box H7WC, OP.O. SYDNEY. ' Ph ° m N °’ Kn<^’


1 '
£g^Hg^&&&§g&p§&ssg^Bgjg
|§§ig
j jpß@
e
Buying “Willard” is getting more
for your money every time—every
battery* A Willard Battery with
Threaded Rubber Insulation
comes CHARGED Bone Dry. It
stays brand new until it is pre-
pared for your use.
that's
Quality
&
STORAGE
BATTERY
AUSTRALIAN GENERAL ELECTRIC CO., LTD.,
68 Wentworth Avenue, Sydney.
ATKINS (W.A.), LTD., Perth,
AUSTRALIAN GENERAL ELECTRIC CO., LTD.,
482 Elizabeth Street, Melbourne.
MOTOR SUPPLIES, LTD., Brisbane,


built in
Speaker
m
r
Ixncealed Aerial
Ideal for the Holidays
D.J. PORTABLE-4
“D.J. Portable—4” is just the Set for the
holidays. It is in a neat 16 xl6 x 9-inch box
that weighs 31 lbs. complete. It has excellent
tone and strength up to 100 miles, and is
fully guaranteed by David Jones’. The Set
is absolutely self-contained, and is supplied
ready to tune-in. You may take delivery on
payment of £2/10/- deposit, and weekly
payments of 9/6 for 52 r A/ A I
weeks. Cash. Price -- & / IU/ -
Radio Department , Lower Ground Floor
New Store , Market , Castlereagh & Elizabeth Streets .
DAVID TONES’
bold lettering tells you that this is the
repository of Government records and
historical documents of South Australia.
The general notion of archives is that
they consist of bundles of old papers tossed
into dusty attics, or dumped into cellars,
or stored out of sight on the top shelves of
basements and all more or less rat-chewed,
moth-eaten or mildewed. In South Aus-
tralia their condition was filthy and chaotic
until 1920, when, through the efforts of
Prof. G. C. Henderson, M.A., of the Modern
History chair of Adelaide University, the
Government was urged to take steps for
the proper housing and classification of all
official and private documents of historical
value. The present building, erected 60
years ago for a storehouse and afterwards
used as an armory, was chosen for the pur-
pose. A staff was appointed, and now the
Archives are cared for as a special section
of the Public Library, Museum and Art
Gallery. With the exception of a small
reference library (provided for the use of
students and consisting of printed books
such as Parliamentary papers, Acts and
debates, old newspapers, histories of the
State, etc.), the collection consists entirely
of original documents. Printed material is
allocated to the Public Library 7. Only docu-
ments relating to South Australia are col-
lected, and, as a rule, are not taken over
unless 20 or 30 years old.
In 1925 an Act of Parliament was passed
—the only one of its kind in Australia —
to safeguard the Government records of the
State. It makes the Archives Department
the proper repository for official records, and
prohibits the destruction of official docu-
ments without the permission of the Board
of Governors; and “official documents”
means records also of all municipal cor-
porations and district councils. The Act
prohibits trafficking in those public docu-
ments which find their way into private
hands. All such documents must be sur-
rendered to the department. “Penalty,
£10.”
The nucleus of the Archives consisted of
a few dozen manuscripts from the Public
Library consisting of explorers’ journals
and facsimiles of papers relating to the foun-
dation of the province (the originals are
in the Mitchell Library). Afterwards there
came a mass of contributions from the
cellars of Government offices and private
records from all parts of the State.
Among the Government records are those
of the old Colonial Secretary’s office dating
back to 1836. There is a collection relating
to the activities of the Commissioners in
whose hands the actual foundation of the
colony was placed by the Colonial Office,
and who were responsible for the welfare
of the province from 1834 to 1842. There
are many letters written to Edward Gibbon
Wakefield, and a copy of the journal of
John Brown, the first emigration agent. The
journal was written in London during the
period before the first settlers left Eng-
land (February, 1834 —July, 1836) and is a
graphic record of negotiations, intrigues,
difficulties and triumphs. There are dupli-
cates of the dispatches of Governors,
minutes of the Executive Council, corres-
pondence of the Crown Lands and Immi-
gration Office, the Treasury, and other
departments—all from 1836. Also there are
the instructions issued by the Secretary of
State for the Colonies to the State Gover-
nor. A valuable set relates to the history
of the Northern Territory for the entire
period during which it was controlled by
the South Australian Government. Another
interesting and useful series is of shipping
registers and passenger lists. They have
been a great help to people who seek in-
formation about the arrival of their fore-
fathers.
The records from private sources consist
chiefly of the diaries of explorers, papers
and diaries of early settlers, papers of poli-
ticians, literary manuscripts and commercial
correspondence from the files of pioneer
business men. Under safe keeping are the
logs of Sturt, Stuart, Eyre and Warburton.
Notable political papers are those of Bou-
caut, Finniss and Ayers. Literary manu-
scripts are represented by “Paving the
Way,” by Simpson Newland, “Hard Fasted,”
by Catherine Helen Spence, and “Remi-
niscences,” by Alexander Tolmer. (There
is nothing of Adam Lindsay Gordon,
although there are departmental references
to him when a police trooper at Penola.)
Business communications include the letters
of the Frew family describing the depression
in Adelaide from 1841 to 1843. In the
photographic section are pictures of old
colonists, portraits of notables past and pre-
sent, and over 10,000 views of scenery and
. events, some from sketches made when the
colony was young. A subdivision includes
a record of every building in the city
proper that is about to be altered or pulled
down, and every building erected is photo-
graphed in order to complete the scheme.
Street scenes are also photographed at a
certain hour on a certain day and from a
certain position every fourth year.
The Archives now contain over 260,000
documents, and constitute a treasury of
the utmost historical importance. Under
the supervision of the Archivist, G. H. Pitt,
BA., and his assistant, Miss Bessie Thread-
gill, the collection has been classified and
indexed. Everything has been methodically
arranged on steel shelving, and all visible
danger of destruction by fire, corruption by
damp, or ravage by vermin has been elimi-
nated.
F. M. SPURDLE.
Choral Music
Whilst being perfectly willing to shed a
tear with “J.A.C.” (R.P. 17/11/’27) over
the lamentable disinclination of the Aus-
tralian male to join choral societies or
church choirs, and whilst being also willing
to rejoice with him over the
fact that the Philharmonic Society gave
Elgar’s “Apostles” for the first time in Syd-
ney 21 years after it was composed, I can-
not let him “get away” with the statement
that the repertoire of that society is “above
reproach.” This year it has had on its
menu three of the four musical dishes
which I cited as worked to death—“ Me-
ssiah” potage, “Elijah” entree and roast
beef a la Gounod. I yield to no one in my
admiration of these works, but I think it
time it was made a criminal offence for
any society to perform them any time in
the next five years. As to the four operatic
pieces quoted somewhat nervously by
“J.A.C.” as a mark of the Phil.’s righteous-
ness, I am with those critics who refuse to
countenance such proceedings by a choral
society.
The obvious need is for constructive criti-
cism to supplement the destructive. Very
well. Some years ago there lived a gentle-
man named Bach, who wrote choral music
-—purely choral music—that has not been
equalled. I did not notice any of his works
on “J.A.C.’s” list of the Sydney Phil, pro-
ductions. Handel, who produced “The
Messiah” in three weeks, spent consider-
ably more time in writing 19 other ora-
torios. If “J.A.C.” will study the doings
of overseas choral societies he will get some
idea of what is being done elsewhere in
this regard. I pick up a prominent Eng-
lish musical journal. Newcastle (Eng.)
Bach Choir had just completed a tour of
Germany with “a selection of madrigals and
kindred works, modern part-songs, folk-
songs, Whittaker’s 139th Psalm, some of
Byrd’s three-part and five-part Masses and
works by Dr. Vaughan Williams.” I won-
der if the Phil, or any other Sydney choir
has performed any single one of them?
Having spent a few years abroad recently
I am not in a position to dogmatise on the
subject. The other choir mentioned is the
famous Bethlehem of Pennsylvania. It has
a yearly Bach festival at which one day is
allotted to motets, oratorios, chorales, etc.,
whilst the next day is always reserved for
the wonderful B minor Mass given here
by Verbrugghen, and used ever since as
convincing proof of the musical taste of
Sydney in that this city actually went in
not inconsiderable numbers to hear it. This
Bethlehem choir, by the way, numbers 300
and has a long waiting list.
I am no Bachomaniac, but I do feel
that a choir that knows not something of
the great John Sebastian is very far from
being in a state of grace. For years the
Phil, has battled gamely in the face of
apathy and musical ignorance, and has
been forced perhaps to fall back on the
works which every decent musician knows
by heart in order that it might make both
ends meet. Generally speaking, choral
music in Sydney is deader than the com-
poser of “The Messiah.” If “J.A.C.’s” words
and mine can do the slightest thing towards
making the city realise the fact, then we
have not done badly.
Suppose the Phil, threw discretion to the
winds next year and gave two Bach con-
certs! After all, progress is the only ex-
cuse for life.
KEITH BARRY.
A Note on Artists
I have known a number of men who were
competent writers or artists, and not one
of them has had any clear knowledge of
what first set him writing or drawing. Any
barrister or brewer or baker can tell you
what sent him to the Bar or to beer or to
bread as a vocation, but the artist is seldom
acquainted with his own first intention. It
seems to me that the impulse to represent
things may arise primitively from one of
three piincipal causes, and that these three
embrace the various lesser, if sometimes
more definite, stimuli: (1) There may be
some innate recognition of the imperfect-
ness and incompatibility of things that
urges the artist to create an environment
more tempered to his mind and this,
I think, is the largest motive with the
Romanticists; (2) there may be a recog-
nition of the values of the universe that
prompts to imitation and perpetuation, that
a beauty glimpsed for a moment may be
fixed for ever; or (3) there may be the
simple sense that it is fun to make a verse
or draw a picture.
I think that most artists begin with this
sense of fun; just as some children like
building houses and making things with
their hands, the artist-child enjoys the mak-
ing of something in which, however faintly,
the pulse of art persists. As the child grows
older, and, moving further from the west,
loses its original degree of egocentricism
in the influence of environment, there is
added to the sense of enjoyment a varying
number of supporting factors. He comes
in touch with other artist-minds, he learns
something of the practice of expression,
and he acquires the noble burden of am-
bition; soon he learns something of the
theory of art, and here and there he picks
up the fragments that combine in a know-
ledge of the conscious purpose of art. He
becomes introspective and self-critical; and
in the light of this growing knowledge of
other men and himself he understands how
and where he may trade his talents.
The artist is moulded, as I think Taine has
suggested, by racial and periodic influences.
Inevitably, he is a racial unit, affected from
the first by the temper and traditions of
his people. None escape it. France could
not have given Tolstoi to art, or Italy
Burns; race is the fundamental factor still,
though it is weakening.
In the same way, the periodic influence
is immense. It operates more and fully
at a later stage in the individual’s develop-
ment ; when the artist has grown more aware
of the contemporary world and its thoughts
and feelings and motives. Zeitgeist, the
Germans call it, and it is like a spirit brood-
ing over the dark waters of the unmatured
mind. Just as Tolstoi is foreign to France,
so Puritanism could not have made Shaks-
peare; no mind can exist as a total alien;
even in its adulthood, a great, free, inde-
pendent soul goes with its age; the passage
of Milton from the mood of “L’Allegro”
to the mood of “Paradise Lost” is a supreme
representation of the passage of the Eng-
lish mind from 1630 to 1650.
It is, nevertheless, true that men can, in
a degree, break free from the trammels of
environment; but these men are the greatest,
and their cleavage is never general, but in
one or several particular directions. The
environment of man is largely the creation
of men, and the greatest men are the larger
influences. Change in all nature is but a
movement from one state to another; and
it is great to be able to see the necessities
of change and to be able to use the means
to bring it about. All of us contribute to
it, but only the best have conscious under-
standing and purpose.
Even as a malcontent, the artist is a child
of his age; more perhaps if he rebels than if
he accepts. (Closely as Shakspeare is knit
to the great dying culture of medievalism,
he is less a medievalist than is Tolstoi a
nineteenth-century Russian.) Always and
without resort, he must accept the thoughts
and dreamings and urgencies of his fellows,
even as he breathes the same air.
So it appears to me that there is a certain
truth in the old aesthetic doctrine; avoid
as one does the too happy generalisation,
there are three components of all adult art
—native desire for expression, race and the
times. All art must be understood in the
terms of these; and it is because art must
be so understood that the critical function
is necessary.
I have lately had a letter from a brilliant
Australian writer in which he describes the
critic as a parasite on the body of art; but
no man has ever yet comprehended the full-
ness and the richness of a work who has
not seen it in its wfider background of racial
and contemporary culture; and it is essen-
tially the function of criticism to provide
that background and to suggest its bounds
and its forms and its colors.
D. P. McGUIRE.
A Satchel of Books
The Music-gallery Murder, by R. F. Foster
(Fisher Unwin). An intriguing detective
story.
The Fairy Kites, by Ethel K. Crawford,
and Susan, by Amy Walton (Blackie).
Quaint conceits for little readers.
Redeemed, by R. B. Cunninghame Graham
(Heinemann). These 16 short stories and
sketches show no abatement in the piquancy
and crispness of expression that marked the
author’s work of 20 years ago.
Goethe’s Faust, by W. H. Van der Smissen
(Dent). A translation, by the doyen of the
Toronto University’s teaching staff, from
the German text into English verse, retain-
ing the original metres and providing com-
mentary and notes.
The Ministry of Agriculture and Fisheries,
by Francis L. C. Floyd (Putnam). The
author, who is the latest contributor to “The
Whitehall Series,” dealing with British ad-
ministrative Departments of State, has been
Permanent Secretary to the Ministry of
Agriculture since 1020.
Benn’s Sixpenny Library. Additions to
this educational series, which brings accurate
if condensed information within the means of
the most pinched pocket, are “The Stars,”
by George Forbes ; “The Races of Mankind,”
by H. J. Fleure; “Man in the Making,” by
R. R. Marett; “Sir Isaac Newton,” by V. E.
Pullin; and “The Religions of the World,”
by C. C. Martindale.
Footprints of Early Man, by Donald A.
Mackenzie (Blackie). Here man is dealt
with from the tertiary period till the dawn
of the historical period. A convenient popu-
lar summary of the discoveries of recent
years which are throwing so much light on
the experiences and activities of human
beings in their struggle for existence dimug
the vast period before recorded history.
Adieu, Beloved! by Catherine Scott
(Hutchinson; Robertson and Mullens).
Possibly as a result of Authors’ Week, new
Australian, novelists continue to come down
with every shower. Catherine Scott in
private life is Miss Golda Ehrenberg, of Mel-
bourne, and this is her first novel. She places
it in Melbourne, and provides it with Aus-
tralian atmosphere, including the habit of
railway passengers on a long journey of
buying a copy of this pink-wrapped journal.
Up to page' 245. “Adieu, Beloved!” is a
tale of love and languishment, as well com-
posed as any imported romance and as con-
ventional. * From then on, however, the
authoress leads the reader along the volup-
tuous garden-paths of expectation to an end-
ing that is anything but conventional. There
is a rare feeling for beauty and appositeness
lurking in that unexpected finish.


Our Service Department
This page is set apart for the service of Bulletin readers.
If you want anything, including information, you are invited to write to the
Service Department.
The service is entirely free. All you have, to do is to attach the coupon from the
inside back cover of last Bulletin to hand.
Readers obliging with replies need not attach coupons.
The right of selection and rejection is reserved.
To facilitate search it is desirable that questions be asked on only one subject at
a time.
Wants.
Energetic, middle-aged lady would like
position as housekeeper, or caretaker, in
New South Wales. Farming district pre-
ferred. Has held car-driver’s licenses for last
three years.—2S2o.
Returned soldier wants position of trust,
15 years with Railway Dept.; good educa-
tion, appearance and references; sober and
industrious. —2513.
Station overseer wants position, 15 years’
experience, five years well-known Riverina
property, north-western N.S.W. and Queens-
land (58,000 sheep) ; good references pre-
vious employer.:—2BlB.
Retired banker, 40 years’ experience, would
like something to do three or four days per
week. Duties of confidential nature pre-
ferred.—2B2l.
Tea and rubber planter, 42, married, three
children, seeks position in Asia or New
Guinea. Experienced tropical products,
irrigation engineering; good with labor;
excellent credentials.—27B3.
Widow, energetic, trustworthy, elderly,
seeks position companion to lady travelling
or otherwise. Travelling experience.—2810.
Young man, 28, steady, small capital,
desires permanent position light, congenial
work. —2794.
.Clerk, 16 years’ experience, four years’
Government service, married, 39 years old,
seeks clerical or secretarial position.—2B34.
Approved applicant with not less than
£5OO to join two others with equal capital
for a 12-months’ prospecting trip to New
Guinea. References exchanged.—2Bl9.
To buy or exchange copy of book “The
Gambler’s Wife.” (Reply direct to Miss M.
Ware, Blue Bell, G. M. Kunanalling, W.A.)
To buy Randall’s “Sheep Breeding.”—279o.
To buy common Australian, N.Z. and
Pacific Island postage-stamps, used and
unused. (Reply direct to A. McMillan,
Branxholme, Vic.)
To sell Art in Australia, set .1922;
“Social Science,” 9 vols. —2792.
To sell two framed views Sydney Harbor,
42in. x 121 in., 305.—2777.
To sell town allotment, Toronto (N.S.W.),
£2 ss. per foot. —2778.
To sell Upright Grand Foster piano : offer.
—2776.
Suit cattlemen or dairymen, 6000 acres
good agricultural land, abundance grass and
water, securely fenced, 20 years’ lease, four-
roomed house, three small paddocks, seven
miles rail and butter factory, Western line,
£5OO half cash.—2797.
To sell 1300 ac. mixed land suit all classes
stock or crops; well fenced, creeks or springs
in every paddock, furn. house, concreted
yards; three miles school, p. 0., etc.; motor-
’bus thrice weekly; £2OOO, dep. £500; walk
in, walk out.—2BoB.
For sale, 1000 ac. wheat land North Vic.
Mallee; complete plant, house, outbuildings,
£3 12s. 6d. p.a.; third cash, balance easy
terms. —2830.
Words of verse “A Nation Once Again,”
by Thomas Osborne Davis. (Reply direct
to A. Queale, Moolabin, Villa-street, Anner-
ley, Brisbane.)
To buy. second hand, Chesterfield lounge-
suite, and lawn-mower, small, for rough
work —2838.
Sydney Mail, Sept. 14, 1927. (Reply
S. M. Edwards, Dickson-avenue, Artarmon,
N.S.W.)
Information Sought.
If one solicitor acts for vendor and pur-
chaser of a Sydney property (Torrens title),
can he charge each client with “search fee”?
—2755.
The purchaser, on whose behalf the search
is made, pays the search fee. The same ser-
vice is not chargeable to the vendor.
(1) Longest and shortest days in the year
in Australia? (2) Difference in time between
sunrise in Sydney and in Bourke? —2667.
(1) The longest and shortest days in the
Southern Hemisphere occur about Dec. 22
and June 22 respectively. (2) Varies. At
mid-summer sun rises at Bourke 31 minutes
later and at mid-winter 11 minutes later
than at Sydney.
I sold for cash a cottage in Sydney;
Savings Bank mortgage of £5OO had to be
transferred. My land-agent advised me to
engage a solicitor to watch my interests.
(1) Was this necessary? (2) What should
be the solicitor's fee? (3) What should the
charges be? —27Bo.
A solicitor is not necessary if you are
ordinarily capable of guarding your own
interests. The costs should not be heavy.;
there is no scale for such service to the
vendor.
(1) What large contractor or company
in Sydney would take me as a learner of
shearing? (2) When does shearing and
crutching commence in N.5.W.?—2617.
(1) Graziers’ Co-op. Shearing Co., Sirius
House, Macquarie-place, Sydney, may take
you. (2) General shearing in N.S.W. from
July to about .Christmas, Crutching and
lamb-shearing during remainder of year
according to conditions. Experienced men
are always preferred.
How can passion-fruit be stored for, say,
four months without unduly shrinking? —
2654.
The Dept, of Agriculture, N.S.W., has
carried out tests in the keeping of passion-
fruit in common storage, but they proved
unsatisfactory. It is possible that passion-
fruit could be kept in cold storage, but this
has not been tried by the department.
My potato crop has run heavily to tops,
but has few tubers. Plenty of moisture and
farm -yard manure. Can I improve crop?
—2658.
Growth may be due to bad seed or excess
of nitrogen in farmyard manure. This
dressing may be balanced by application of
superphosphate at planting time.
In cricket, cam a bowler bowl am, over from
one end and then go to the other end and
bowl another over? —2701.
No. Law of Cricket No. 14 stipulates that
“The bowler shall be allowed to change ends
as often as he pleases, provided only that he
does not bowl two overs consecutively in one
innings.
(1) Would flowering gums similar to those
in Melbourne Botanical Gardens tlvt'ive in
Brisbane? (2) To what height do they grow;
would they be suitable for planting round a
school playground? (3) What are the colors
and where can trees be obtained? —2829.
(1) Yes. (2) Twenty to 60 feet; they
are shapely, with a dense head, and fairly
fast growers; very suitable. (3) Eucalyptus
calophylla, pale white or cream; E. calo-
phylla rosea, rosy pink; E. ficifolia, scarlet.
Color of last unreliable when grown from
seed. Hodgins, Essendon (Vic.), or Hazle-
wood Bros., Epping, N.S.W., stock the seeds
if unobtainable in Brisbane.
(1) Is the wheat weevil a germ or am■
insect? (2) How long does a grain of wheat
retain its vitality? —24Sl.
(l)The wheat weevil is an imported pest,
a grain beetle; its .eggs can develop only
under moist conditions, hence absolutely dry
storage is a sure protection. (2) It depends
on its condition when harvested and on the
temperature and moisture conditions during
storage. Grain poorly developed or with a
high percentage of water loses its capacity
for germination in a year or two, while
well-ripened dry grain will retain its vitality
for several years. The embryo is rapidly
killed if the £rain is stored under warm con-
ditions, especially if the atmosphere is damp.
Wheat grains stored in an ordinary dry room
will lose their vitality completely, or have
their germinating capacity considerably re-
duced, in 10 years or less. Reports have
been published of the germination of grain
taken from Egyptian tombs, but when tested
the evidence has invariably been found to
be unsatisfactory.
I have no capital, but wish to begin
farming in Queensland. What steps should
I take?— 2636.
Under tile Queensland Agricultural Bank
Act the manager has bower to advance money
to assist a person to purchase a farm. Each
case is, however, dealt with on its own
merits after one of the bank’s officers has
inspected the property and reported as to
the value of the security. A leaflet explain-
ing the terms of the Act has been poster!.
It is inadvisable to take up land without
capital; though you may obtain assistance
to purchase a farm, you should have some
money to carry on with till it begins to pay.
(1) Salary and conditions of employment,
etc., for shire clerks in Queensland? (2)
Where information is obtainable as to exam-
inations to be passed and positions available?
—2541.
(1) These are governed by the Municipal
Officers’ Agreement, a copy of which has
been posted. (2) Assistant Under-Secretary,
Home Secretary’s Department, Brisbane,
Queensland.
What is the present position of the sun-
spots?—2Bo9.
The present 11-year sunspot cycle began
in 1923, when there was a sunspot minimum.
From 1923 till 1927 the solar activity lias
been increasing, and it is now near its maxi-
mum ; this generally occurs some four to
five years after the beginning of the cycle.
Soon the sunspot numbers will begin to
decrease, and will continue to do so until
about 1934, when there will again be a sun-
spot minimum.
(1) How late in life may a boy remain at
school prior to taking up engineering? (2)
What steps do I take to have him appren-
ticed? (3) Can this be done hi Newcastle,
or must he go to Sydney? (4) Is an inter-
mediate or l.c. necessary? —2749.
(1) It is usual for a boy to be apprenticed
to a trade at the age of 16. (2) By making
application to any engineering firm. (3)
Openings exist in Newcastle as well as Syd-
ney. There are numerous large industrial
plants in Newcastle; also study the adver-
tising columns of the local papers. (4) No;
employers in the trade naturally prefer a
lad with a training at a technical school.
But he would be required to attend the
Newcastle Technical College, and should he
desire to proceed to the Sydney University
to take a degree in engineering, his training
for the Intermediate and L.C. would help
him to pass the Matric.
Are there any building organisations which
assist young workmen to become competent
tradesmen after they are too old to serve
app ren ticeships ? —2655.
The Correspondence Courses branch of the
Sydney Technical College, Ultimo, may help
you. Mr. Gundry, the officer in charge, would
give advice or information. The ordinary
State Technical Colleges are principally for
apprentices, and, in a few cases, for journey-
men actually employed in the trade covered
by the course.
(1) Can black-and-white ( humorous)
sketching be taught satisfactorily by post to
a person who shoics undoubted ability but
who is unable to attend an art schoolf (2 )
Is this branch of art remunerative, and is
there a good market? —2747.
(1) Students with ability would certainly
profit by postal instruction from a reputable
school, but those who have personally
attended classes are better equipped. (2)
Yes, provided the artist has ability and ideas,
but competition is keen and the market
limited.
(1) What kind of dress should Mary wear
during the “Moon Struck” song in “Our Miss
Gibbs”? (2) Should the play have a ballet?
—2740.
(1) A misty-blue Pierrot costume (sketch
posted). (2) No ballet in the score, but
ballets are introduced to the symphony of
songs ; being a musical comedy a ballet can
be interpolated anywhere, irrespective of the
plot.
Do pigs cat coal? —2831.
The chief veterinary surgeon of the stock
and brands branch of the Department of
Agriculture states: Pigs do eat coal, and it
is at times fed to them in order to supply
carbon. This may also be accomplished by
supplying charcoal.
What reference-book contains a complete
list of American trade journals, their edi-
torial requirements, rates of pay, etc.; where
obtainable and at ivhat price? —2733.
“Where and How to Sell Manuscripts.”
compiled by William B. McCourtie, Home
Correspondence School, Springfield, Mass.,
U.S.A. Price $3.50.
I am drawing payment under the N.SAV.
Workers' Compensation Act. Can I con-
tinue to draw same if I leave Australia? —
2731.
Section 54 of the Act reads: “If a worker
receiving a weekly payment ceases to reside
in the Commonwealth, he is not entitled to
weekly payments unless a medical referee
certifies that his incapacity is likely to be
permanent. If so, he receives quarterly pay-
ments on furnishing proof of his identity,
and the continuance of incapacity.”
(1) Can salt be got profitably from nitrate
of soda? (2) What is the difference between
nitrate of soda and rock-salt? (3) What
percentage of salt is in soda, and what per-
centage of soda in salt? —2462.
(1) No. (2) The former is a chemical
combination of sodium and nitric-acid; the
latter a combination of sodium and hydro-
chloric-acid, with the addition of various
impurities. (3) The third question is diffi-
cult to understand. Chemically, there is no
salt ( sodium chloride ) in soda (either sodium
nitrate or sodium bicarbonate, both of
which are loosely known as “soda”), each
compound being an individual body, con-
sisting of the sodium base in combination
with the nitric, hydrochloric or carbonic
acid molecule. But in nature, sodium
chloride and sodium nitrate, with other com-
pounds, sometimes occur together and have
to be separated for commercial use, and the
percentage present of either in the mixture
would, of course, vary. It is possible that
confusion has arisen owing to the chemical
use of the term “salt,” which is applied
to a certain chemical compound. For
example, sodium chloride is salt, it is also
“a salt,” and sodium nitrate, sodium bicar-
bonate and many others are “salts.”
llow many prisoners were taken by the
different combatants during the Great War?
—2702.
Approximate figures only are available.
Gi’eat Britain claimed just under half a
million, France just over that number, Italy
nearly one million, Germany 21 millions and
Austria nearly 11 millions. The Americans
captured 48,000, and lesser belligerents add
to the total. About 200,000 British were
captured.
Where can I get a Pharmacopoeia Regis-
ter, what is its price, and does it contain
a list of ingredients of numerous articles put
up in N.S.W.? —2562.
There is no English or Australian publica-
tion known as the “Pharmacopoeia Register.”
“The British Pharmacopoeia” (13s. 6d.) is
a list, published irregularly but about once
in every 10 years or so, of several thousand
official preparations used in prescribing and
dispensing, and it lays down such standards
as those of origin, purity and dosage, these
being revised with each edition. There is a
semi-official publication called Martindale
and Westcott’s “Extra Pharmacopoeia”
(two vols., first 325. 6d., second 245.), con-
taining a list of drugs and preparations not
official (that is, not included in the “8.P.”).
but which have become sanctioned by long
usage. This contains many better-class
and reliable proprietary preparations. The
“British Pharmacopoeia Codex” (365.) is an
official publication containing the standard
methods for the preparation of practically
all the drugs used in medicines, official and
non-official, while there is also what is
known as the “Indian and Colonial Adden-
dum,” containing certain alterations in stan-
dards and methods permitted in India and
Australia for various reasons, mostly cli-
matic. The “State Pharmacy Register” of
each State contains only the names of quali-
fied and registered pharmacists. The for-
mula; of the bulk of proprietary preparations
put up in Australia will not be found in the
books mentioned.
What constitutes “plant” and ivhat “im-
provements” for a grazier. Is a sub-artesian
bore an “improvement,” and if so are the
necessary windmill and pipes and pump also?
—2722.
“Improvements,” as defined by section 213,
Crown Lands Consolidation Act, 1913, do
not include improvements in, or in connec-
tion with, an irrigation area effected or
provided by the Commissioner in pursuance
of the Irrigation Act of 1912. A sub-artesian
bore, windmill, pipes and pump would also
come within the provisions of this section.
There is no definition of plant in the Crown
Lands Act.
Information Supplied.
2561. —To renovate copper stand, chip off
all Brunswick black, sandpaper metal, and
give three coats Silvafros or similar paint.
Clean interior of copper with cut lemon
dipped Tn dry salt, finishing with dry cloth.
Vinegar may be used, but is not as satisfac-
tory.—“Cowwhit.”
2561 (From another angle).—To keep an
ii’on copper-stand from rusting, protect from
rain and sunj if in the open, cover with an
iron roof with a movable side. Apply mix-
ture of kerosene and fat occasionally when
not in use. To keep the copper bright,
almost fill with water when in use; empty
while still hot, and wipe perfectly dry and
clean. —“Biro.”
2576. —F.G.W. beans are suitable for mix-
ing with cauliflowers and other vegetables in
mustard or white vinegar mixture. They
should be boiled in the vinegar till they can
be pierced with a millet straw, but not till
soft. Use customary spices and condiments.
—“Biro.”
261 S make an overshot dam in creek,
choose a spot where the banks provide but-
tresses. Against them build the logs hori-
zontally, but with an upstream slant of
about 60 degrees. The uppermost log should
have a bend in the middle, and be so fixed
that there will be a slight upward rise to-
wards each end. Twelve feet upstream trench
across the watercourse, and in this trench,
to a height required for the dam head, fence
with logs standing perpendicularly side to
side. Between the lines of timber puddle in
and ram firmly the best clay available.
Spread over the upper surface a 6in. layer of
coarse broken metal. —“Pick.”
Does Anybody Know ?
My kelpie bitch has killed all the pups in
her first and second litters. How can the
habit be cured, or is it hopeless to attempt
to breed from her? —2704.
How can I get rid of a nest of greenhead
ants from round a shrub without moving the
plant?—2B24.
How to keep a 281 b. block of ice for a
week? —2770.
Good method of poisoning rabbits for
skins; what baits and how to use them? —
2739.
A recipe for preserving loganberries in
syrup?—2Bo7.
Recipe for grape-wine?—2644.
Brief Answers.
R.A.M.: A private co., not listed, and
accounts are not available. The trouble in such
cases is to get out once you have got in. .. .8.A.8.:
All the information you seek is in “Ferrets and
Ferreting,” by W. D. Durie, from Sir Robert
Bear’s Bookshop, Market-street, Sydney. Price 2s.
3d. (posted)... .Black Bosun: “A Xmas Gift” is
the correct usage; “X” is short for “Christ”....
H.R.: The sleeve valve motor is the better. ...
L. : Guyatt and Co., George-street, Sydney, will
give you full particulars. .. .E.M.: Advertise or
register with Women’s Labor Exchange, Department
of Labor and Industry, 132 George-street, Sydney.
.... K.E.: Can be obtained from Copyright Office,
Commonwealth Bank Buildings, Sydney. Send copy
of the work and ss. with application S.J.M.:
Label is a curious mixture of Stradivarius and Guar-
nerius, and the date, 1784, is a long time after the
death of either. Probably a trade copy of no par-
ticular value.... J.A.: Brown, Curtis, Ltd., 116
West 39th-street; Hughes, Massie and Co., 347 Fifth-
avenue ; Paul R. Reynolds, 70 Fifth-avenue; Paget
Literary Agency, 71 West 45th-street —all of New
York, U.S.A T.L.A.: Grape-juice recipe was
printed in B. 8/12/’27. We are seeking one for
grape wine... .Scot: It depends a great deal upon
yourself. Intensive self study, close application to
your daily work and a determination to get ahead
are the main essentials. Opportunities in the Islands
in your trade are very limited and vacancies in the
Air Force do not occur often. Applications for
positions in the latter should be made to the Secre-
tary, Air Board, Department of Defence, Melbourne.
If you like your work, stick to it, seize every oppor-
tunity and success will come.. . .D.McG.: From the
description, your friend’s green plates are Stafford-
shire Pottery Plate, very effective for color and
worth 12s. to 21s. each. In a dessert service they
should be worth more.... W.G.L.: Sixteen shillings
is full value for the coins. They are quite common
with collectors and to get a better price they would
have to be in perfect condition. .. .L.R.: Value of
coins would be 10 per cent, over face value. ...
C.S.: They are copies and were printed in great
quantities. The originals would be steel. Market
value is a few shillings each. ...S.A.W.: Four-shilling
piece would be worth, in good condition, 10 per
cent, over face value. The copper coins are not
uncommon. .. .T.P.K.: Communicate with either the
Government Resident or the Secretary, North Australia
Development Commission, Darwin; and H. G. Nelson,
M. House of Representatives, Canberra, F.C.T.
. ...S.T.: Up till recently there was a fair amount
of unemployment in the Murrumbidgee Irrigation
Area, and it is thought that there is ample labor
offering locally. Labor Exchange Bureau, Depart-
ment of Labor and Industry, would give you par-
ticulars of calls for labor A.J.H. : We’d be in gaol
next week if we answered your first three questions.
... .M.A.M.C.: The procedure in regard to registra-
tion under the N.S.W. Electrical Contractors and
Electricians’ Licensing Act is outlined in Form 14
obtainable from the Secretary Electrical Contractors
and Electricians’ Licensing Board of N.S.W., Old
Mint Building, Macquarie-street, Sydney... .H.L.D.:
The existing wharf at Moama (Murray River) was
constructed in 1890... .H.C.: Leading Sydney cycle
accessories houses say that the “Search Light ’ is
not now on the market... .P.C. 49: There is a good
deal of speculation about both. What do you want
—safety above all things, or a flutter, with chances
of a good prize? If the former, no; if the latter,
all right, and either will d 0... .R.S.A.W : T.
C. Roughley, Technological Museum, Harris-street,
Sydney, will tell you if you write to him direct.
Shortv: Write P. E. Coleman, Air Board, A-
Kilda-road, Melbourne T.F.L.: Wimble and Co.,
Ltd., 459 Little Bourke-street, Melbourne, Will show
you ’several machines that might suit your purpose.
A.J.H.: Up to 1913 the fastest time in the
Melbourne Cup was Prince Foote’s 3min. 27isec. in
1909. He was three years old, carried 7st. 81b., and
W. H. MoLachlan was the jockey R.P.D.: Par-
ticulars submitted to an authority who believes them
to bo reprints; but only on personal examination
could he be sure. (2) Second-hand departments
cf both Dymock's and Angus and Robertson, Sydney.
(3) The firm no longer operates in Sydney
A.D.B.S. : See reply to question 2747 this issue... •
F.R.P.: This is no time to swap gilt-edged securities
for some that “will return a little more interest.
The chances are there will be a good many fata i
during the next couple of years; so this seems a good
time to play for safety D.T.: See reply to •
No. 2841 this week. .. .F.W.W.: “Line,” by Edmund
J. Sullivan (13s. 6d.), Angus and Robertson,
Castlereagh-street, Sydney A ’^ -U ',rt ß^ l Svdmy
rator Engine, 12 George-street, Leichhardt, -J
....(Many others mailed.)


r
USTRAZ.
s'^
gg
**
**
E*
E#
Efe
gE
ffE
EE
Eft
EE
EE
«
EE
■
EE
EE
EE
EE
EE EE EE EE
I
iuA-J U tuiKU
t'-to-iUii-xtm
'/////.
da?
Cl
gg
SIS
!w
W
f\
&
rr
lOT
111
Mi
MURDOCHS
Mew Mammoth
MENS&BOIfS
WEAR STORE.
m
j> * j it»
rr> i .
uxszi
a?-,
j
kĵk;kj;kl'l
Ike WORLD’S LARGEST
MEN’S 6JB®YS WEAR STORE
Australian Industries
A few examples of Murdoch’s
Merchandise made exclusively in
Murdoch’s Manufactories by
Australians from Australian
materials.
0
9
ft
B ONDS OF EMPIRE !—ln whirring
wheels and smoking stacks no less
than in the “reeking tube and iron shard”
of tragic memory—Australia continues to
uphold the Power and Prestige of Britain.
To Murdoch’s it is ever a source of inspiration to
reflect that in clothing the tens of thousands of Aus-
tralia’s sons and employing thousands more the Firm
is assisting to weave the mighty fabric which binds
together our beloved Empire.
w
Men’s Suits
Men’s Summer-weight Tweed Sac Suits, of
distinctive character and in the newest grey
effects. With scientific grading of sizes per-
feet fitting is assured. Irre-
proachably made S.B. Sac Suit
—Coat, Vest, and Trousers
ready to wear. “DIRECT
FROM MILL TO WEARER”
59'6
Sports Trousers
Men’s Comfortable-fitting Cream Twill Gabar-
dine Sports Trousers will
withstand hardest service,
wash and launder excellently.
Side straps, belt loops, etc.
READY TO WEAR
13'11
In Finer Qua'ity Cream Woollen Gabardine, 25/-.
All-Wool Blazers
Faultiessly-made Pure Wool Navy Flannel
Blazers a perfectly com-
fortable, lightweight garment.
Contrasting coloured Braid
edges. Three patch pockets.
All sizes
276
A Happy New Year!
A ND surely the spirit of the
/\ opening year finds fit-
' / ting expression in the
JL A- ; symbol of Australia—
open-armed. The bonds that bind
Empire are, after all, simply an ex-
tension of the bonds that bind
man to man.
43
In the “daily round and common
task” there has come to Murdoch’s
a very real sense of this kinship with
Australia’s sons. Honesty of purpose,
integrity in every transaction, faith-
ful service—even to the point of
sacrifice if need be—these things
have forged for Murdoch s a bond
of friendship which Time but serves
to weld more firmly.
<gj <25 <25
—and so the dawn of a .fresh year
gives to Murdoch’s the opportunity
to wish all these staunch business
friends scattered throughout this
great Commonwealth a year full of
accomplishment to a worthy end—
a year laden with a full measure of
happiness “pressed down and run-
ning over.”
Bathing Costumes
Murdoch-made Pure Wool One-piece “Surfo”
Bathing Costumes. Double gusset-
ting for maximum wear. In plain
Black or Black with coloured
Bands of Red, White, or Royal.
Sizes 32, 34, or 36 inch
40in, 9/6 ; 42in and 44in, 10/6.
B'6
Men’s Shirts
Keen buying and absence of all Middlemen’s
Profits brings this remarkable value. Smart
English Zephyr Golf Shirts of extraordinary
wearing life. Fadeless woven
coloured stripes on white ground.
No collar. All sizes. Don't fail
to see these. UNEQUALLED
VALUE
4'9
Boys’ Suits
A Boy’s Twopiece Cotswold Suit
experts from extra strong woven
Tweeds of very dressy Grey tones.
made by
Woollen
Coat and
Plain Knee Knickers; piece of
material for mending accom-
panies every suit. Sizes 6 to 8
fit boys eight to ten
years
25'-
Sizes 9 to 12, fit boys 11 to 14 years .... 27/6
Sizes 13 to 2, fit boys 15 to 17 years 32/6
Men’s Underwear
“Ayrocel” (Regd.) Singlets for Men. The
ideal singlet for summer wear. Knitted with
exacting thoroughness.
Strongly sewn and well fin-
ished. Short sleeves. Sizes
34 inches and 36 inches chest
measure
3'U
38 and 40 inched, 4/6 ; 42 and 44 inches, 4/11
Trunk Drawers to Match—34in, 36in, 4/6; 38in
40in, 4/11; 42in, 5/6.
Masonic Regalia
Like every other section in the great Store,
Regalia offers something unusual in
value. This offer is typical Scottish
Mason’s Royal Arch Set —Apron
and Sash of finest quality. Set
of three jewels, including Cor- pm
nelian Keystone. 85/- Value /(P
for
Apron and Sash, 47/6; Jewels, 22/6;
N.S.W. Jewel, 18/6.
Youths’ Suits
Youths’ Three-piece Fancy Grey Tweed Suits,
in S.B. style, rolled lapels, two-button front.
jigger button. Trousers have
two side pockets and cuff bot-
toms. To fit youths 14
to 17 years. READY TO
WEAR
67'6
In Fine Twill All-Wool Pure Indigo Dye,
75/-, 90/-.
Postage Paid to all parts of Australia .
Murdoch's Profusely-illustrated General Catalogue Australia's
Largest Men's and Boys' Wear, Radio, Travel, and Sports Goods
Store—all in book form —is yours for the asking. Write to Desk U.
When writing kindly state size and address your letter to Desk R>
Murdoch's Guarantee : “Perfect satisfaction with every purchase,
otherwise goods replaced or money refunded."
t
3?
m
&
*
a
MURDOCH’S
IN PARK ST. LTD. SYDNEY
“The World's Largest Men’s and Boys' Wear Store.”


A
"X
&
Cuticura Baths Comfort
And Refresh The Skin
Cleanse and freshen your skin
by bathing daily with Cuticura Soap.
If there are any signs of pimples,
redness or roughness follow v/ith a
gentle application of Cuticura Oint-
ment to soothe and heal. Cuticura
Talcum, Smooth, cooling and
fragrant, is the ideal toilet p:\wder.
Soap ls.,Talcum 15.3 d., Ointment Is. and
2s. For sample Soap and Ointment ad-
dress: “R. Towns & Co., Sydney,N.S.W.”
mP Cuticura Shaving Stick Is. 6d.
Keep hopping and hoping if you wish
to succeed —
THINK OF
' SCHUTE,
BELL& C Ltd.
if you have
Wool & Skins
to Sell.
Personal Attention.
Office*: 44 Bridge Street, Sydney.
BROOKS RUPTURE
APPLIANCE
Can Now be
Purchased in
Australia at London
Prices.
m
If ar ® Ruptured write at once for full particuiari
t" l ® M ° de, ' n Invention. Light, cool and com-
fortable. Expert attends to Mail Orders.
AGENTS: GUYATT & CO,, Est 1863
DEPT. B,
Surgical Instrument and Truss Makers.
257 a GEORGE STREET
(Opposite Bridge Street), SYDNEY.
A. LL AUSTRALIANS visiting London
should read the British Australian
and New Zealander, 6d. weekly—an illus-
trated paper containing mail and cable news
from Australia and news of Australians in
Europe and at home. Australians are cordi-
ally invited to visit the British Australian
and New Zealander Reading-room at the
offices, 414-17 Australia House, Strand,
London, W.C.2, where they can see the home
papers, meet their friends, use the telephone
and obtain information without charge.
Copies of the paper and general information
can be obtained at the Australian Advertis-
ing Agency, Ltd., 350 George Street, Sydney:
or 434 Collins Street, Melbourne.
I
Mil
■s
m
A top-grade boot
Made for everyday wear, with
an upper of particularly high
quality in black or tan leather.
Not too heavy, trim in de-
sign, this is an Abbey boot that
preserves its shape because it
fits so easily. The comfortable
instep arch, non-chafing heel
and the pliancy of both sole and
upper guarantee foot-ease with
surprising freedom of move-
ment for all the muscles.
Order by Post.
You can be fitted exactly for
width as well as length—full
and half sizes are available,
each in three fittings, narrow,
medium and wide. Specify the
width you need and order, also,
a supply of the correct Abbey
Polish (6d. per tin).
TAN WILLOW CALF - 557-
BLACK GLACE KID - - 557-
BLACK BOX CALF - -50/-
Aslc for a copy of the new
40-page catalogue in color.
ABBEY
**Established over 80 years”
313 George St. & 224 Pitt St.,
L 52 SYDNEY.
THE
WOMAN’S MIRROR
Published Every Tuesday
Is the most popular 64-page woman’s
paper published in the Common-
wealth. It features everything a
woman ought to know. Once you
read it you will never be without it.
Its up-to-date weekly pattern is
free for the asking.
Published by
The Bulletin Newspaper Co.,
214 George Street, Sydney.
“ON THE HOP,” New Edition.—Over 200 of “Hop’s” most
famous drawings. Heavy art paper, 2/6. Post 6d. extra.
Plub Heil
I
1
mtinvii
mm
I
mm
m
i
1
51
Mb
hum
Smoke and enjoy the exquisite
flavor of this Cigar.
Made of superb Havana Tobacco,
with a smooth, satiny wrapper.
At all good hotels
and tobacconists.
6
D.
EACH.
BOX PRICES:
10 Cigars 5/6, (posted 6/-); 25, 12/- (posted
12/6); 50, 23/- (posted 23/9); 100, 45/-
(posted 46/-).
Sampler box, containing 2 Cigars, 1/- post rree.
CRAIG 8 AITKEN, 654 George Street, Sydney,
Distributors Sor Club Reil Cigar Factory,
VA RIOUS VERSE
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Morning.
Awakened by the saffron dawn, the trees,
Dew-pearled, are tremulous with joy; the
rose
Exhales her morning incense. Litanies
Trill from the swelling throats of birds.
Shall those
Praise God for a clean world, while sullen I,
With wounds still throbbing from an old
affray,
Ingrate for boons uncounted, silently
Close the heart’s cobwebbed casements to
the day?
VICTORIA.
WAWHERESH.
Some Day.
Oh, I shall know and laugh some day, some
day!
And some day I shall gather all my years
With all their months and days, and tread
the way
In laughter that I follow now with tears.
And I shall gather one by one, as gems,
The sorrows and the joys that we have
known,
And lay them, garlanded ’mid poppy stems,
To build a shrine for ways we walked
alone.
But I will do no penance for your love.
Content you gave it for Love’s sake to me.
Tim suu and moon, the cool white stars above
Not more remote are now than love and we.
Yet in that high remoteness each from each,
May there not be clear vision’s deathless
light,
Born of the truth earth’s limitations teach—
Love is a spirit, and such dwell in flight?
Tisiphone were gentleness itself
Beside Love’s hatred of a prison-fence.
Set we Pan piping on our mantelshelf?
We are Love’s debtors —at our own ex-
pense !
Yet for each rose-hued moment that he gave
I laugh away a hundred thousand sighs.
The bitter sea his blue and gold skies lave
I’d swim again at beckoning of his eyes.
So some day I shall gather all my years
With all their months and days, and go
alone
To add them to the sum of all my fears
That Love his fool should deem me, and
atone!
N.S.W.
AGNES NORA DELANEY.
Aubade.
The yellow fingers of the sun
Have wrapt me in the glow of Life,
Have set the fires of Youth a-run
Within my blood on happy strife.
O happy tears!
O happy joy
That vivid years
Can never cloy!
The feathered singers carol clear
In tones of trilling harmony
That draw the aureate dawning near
And nearer with its symbolry.
O happy day!
O happy light
That casts away
The shade of Night!
The blossoms raise their glist’ning heads,
And all about their dew-pearls fling;
The crickets, from their grassy beds,
Chirr forth the song they cannot sing.
O happy song
Of joy and tears
Whose echoes throng
The vivid years!
Sing on! sing on, O happy heart!
Smile on, O eyes reflecting dawn,
And take thy lucky, lucky part
While angel-tears begem the lawn!
O happy eyes,
Smile for to-day—-
To-morrow lies
A world away!
QUEENSLAND.
FANUEL.
Ohariu.
O valleys of Ohariu,
Like some lost lovely dream
I see your rata budding,
I know your waters gleam,
The long road I am treading
Is dusty, and my feet
Ache for the cushioned clover
The thyme and meadow-sweet.
Now bend your weeping willows
xlbove the river’s brim ;
Now sings a lonely bellbird
Among green arches dim.
One face among your shadows
Shines always out for me,
One voice amid your voices—•
O vanished ecstasy!
O valleys of Ohariu,
Remember one who longs
For all your dappled sunways
And all your muted songs.
MAORILAND.
BETTIE RIDDELL.
The Deserted City.
Tlie broken pavement gives up memories
As a strange fragrance steals from some old
urn;
Small wilding flowers with hard, strange
ardor burn
And there are eerie voices ’mid the trees.
The very stones seem to articulate.
Sense of Decay hangs round one like a pall;
Each gaping orifice in its grey wall
Is like a heart bereft, but passionate.
Yet once, through silver silence of dead day,
Girls with the red hibiscus in their hair
Stole with swart lovers to the palm-grove
there,
And drums kept rhythm to some olden lay.
Here warriors sat in council with scarred
kings,
Here women shuffled steps that hypnotise,
And young bloods danced until the red sun-
rise
Beat at the gates of Night with flaming
wings.
At each chance sound one somehow thinks to
meet
A draped brown woman with a pitcher blue,
A soldier-group, a laughing boy or two,
Casting their shadows in the sunny street."
But no one comes, nor has come here for
long.
Doorways sprout grass, and orchid sprays
entwine
With glowing goblets of the flowering vine
Whence birds, once shy, now trill a fearless
song.
Then to what purpose all ambition, power,
The lust for gold and luxury and ease,
Since everything returns at last to these,
To drink of Death and silence hour by hour?
On plans far too colossal for our eyes
Nations thus bow to pestilence and war,
Treading the path which others trod before.
So kings fall slaves, and serfs to kingdoms
rise!
The greatest lies at long, long last unmissed;
And who shall care when dust with dust con-
doles,
And all the palaces between the Poles
Shall blow, with empires, where the wind
shall list?
QUEENSLAND.
E. M. ENGLAND.
Once I Dreamed.
Once I dreamed a flow’r should break from
a barren tree;
Broke the flow’r too wonderful, far too high
for me.
Once I dreamed a word should sing on the
lonely air;
Sang the word too high and sweet for my
heart to bear.
Once I dreamed a star should shine in a
darkened sky;
Broke the star upon the night, all too fair
and high.
Now I stand a little child troubled in duress,
Dreaming of a splendid flame in its upward-
ness.
Never shall I pluck the flow’r blown upon
the tree ;
Never shall the singing word sing itself to
me.
Yet I would not have the flame less for my
control,
Nor a closer star to shine, nor a meaner goaL
Yet I would not have the flow’r bended to
my hand,
Nor the singing word made simple so I
understand,
Though I be a little child troubled in
duress,
Seeking ever in my dream paths of upward-
ness.
VICTORIA.
V. K. T.
The Babe.
By dreaming ways my reverent feet were led
To old-time Bethlehem’s hallowed cattle-shed ;
While placid kine stood quietly around,
I knelt by her who lay there, hair unbound,
A lustrous halo for that pure pale brow
God’s hand had touched in benison. Hark,
now,
Flooding with glory all the darkling morn,
Comes ringing through the skies, “A Son is
born!”
Oh wondrous words! Her deep dark eyes,
aglow
With that awed ecstasy that mothers know,
Saw not that stable rude ; her spirit stood
Rapt on the shining heights of motherhood.
1 thought she reached a tender hand and
drew
Me close to her, because she saw I knew
The jubilation of that heavenly throng
Was but the echo of her full heart’s song.
But when I turned unto the manger there
To bow adoring to that Babe so fair,
I could not see a Christ-child’s radiant
grace—
I only saw my small son’s sleeping face.
N.S.W.
CLARE THOMPSON.


REX-PYE. in Jetty, ts packed in
lib and lib cans. Its delicious
flavour and aelicate aroma dis-
tinguish it from all other meats.
tit
aft
\\v
»
JL
©
fit
' r?
pa
vr
c
m
] *2Lj>JL±>
In buying food, quality must
come before cheapness.
In buying foodstuffs, quality must always come
first. REX-PYE is the finest meat in the world.
We could pack an inferior article like the
imitations of REX-PYE, which are sold at a
lower price, but we will not do so; for it is bad
policy for both buyer and seller to sacrifice
quality for cheapness. The enormous sale of
REX-PYE is due to its excellent quality.
Other REX Pure Foods
lib and %lb TINS
Baked Beans in Tomato Sauce
Lorraine Smoked Sausages
Pork Sausage
Pork and Beans in Tomato
Sauce
K-be*B (Kidneys, Beans, and
Bacon)
Devilled Kidneys
Ox Tongue
lib TINS ONLY
Pork Brawn
Pig Feet
Fry and Bacon
Beef Sausages
Red-y-mele, choice
beef and vegetables
—a ready meal
(V
S 3
ALWAYS SAY REX
REX-PYB
Foggitt Jones Ltd.
Curers of the choice REX Hams and Bacon,


Jmtik
i \
1
Bfl
■
■
Inafr
m
/■
A
i|g|
8—
v : ‘x.xx ; iv:
mBSmB
• s, : ":■' ~ ;%,
W* . < .
£P *
m
I \ «^K>,TOsa^|
UjOBIfIC!
Jfe
I **B!
11111111111
ssiiii
■
■I i
SRI
,.v<
H
:• VR;
!•£
1
Ym
R /
&
■m
mm
;v-..-'-\:
A
m
Y%
I >
IP
k \ *-?fr
p, \ * *
HJi piiiii
Ik 7 *’ % *
■ "
msumm Wcm>; :miM m x
1®
■ I
HI
WlMiimM
■
i * * “ *
1 Jf, * %:■’'■■>: '■ y ■
,:A ■
■
Ml
aMBII
■'l
■
X .
s : x x^xXxx
: : ■
V
:
' ::; ■ ;■■ X . .. ; •■X.X.."
; \y\. ’•'■
vtm
\y & i,.
■
• -y- ■■-.<
vX~
Wh^BmSm.
mmmmmm
. " :
'
■ 11
; (.■'.x Xx'll
■ ■
HM
MMMmmmmmmmmmm
' -■it k 4g{|
■ X'X : \ ' : 'xrx V /'V X ; X -
■
:' H
(fhjpci


The Bulletin
Vol. 48 —No. 2498.
December 29, 1927.
“BE FRIENDS, DURN YOU, OR I’LL FLOG THE LOT O’ YOU.”
“The United States, while still declaring that it seeks the peace of the world, proposes to spend £200,000,000 on a warship-building programme.”


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper.
“Australia for tlie White Alan.”
Printed and Published by Henry Kenneth Pition, of
44 Bradley’s Head Road, Mosman, for The
Bulletin Newspaper Co., Ltd., at the office of the
Co., 214 George Street North, Sydney, N.S.W.,
Australia.
Melbourne Office: 114-120 Flinders Street.
London Office: No. 1 Wardour Street (near Picca-
dilly Circus), W.l.
PUBLISHED ONCE A WEEK.
TERMS TO SUBSCRIBERS
(In Advance only).
Posted to any address in Australasia, weekly:
12 months, £1 4 s -; 6 months, 12s. (id.; 3 months, 7s.
To any address Overseas: 12 months, £1 10s.; 6
months, 15s. 6d.; 3 months, Bs.
Cheques, drafts, etc., which should be crossed, and
all Business Communications to be addressed to the
Manager.
Special Notice.
All correspondence to be addressed to Box 2521 8.8.,
G.P.0., Sydney.
Insufficiently stamped letters are liable to be
refused.
The contents of this paper are copyright by the
publishers. The right to reproduce or translate any
part of the contents of this number is hereby expressly
reserved by the publishers.
The Editor will carefully read and, where practic-
able, acknowledge in the “Correspondence” column
all contributions submitted, whether in the form of
Political, Social or other Articles, Verse, Short. Tales
or Sketches (those dealing with Australian subjects
and not exceeding two columns in length, or, say,
3000 words, are specially acceptable), Paragraphs,
Letters or Newspaper Clippings. All communications
will be regarded as strictly confidential.
The Bulletin will return all unsuitable MS. when
the address is specified and stamps are enclosed. But
no MS. will be returned or preserved unless these
conditions are observed. When MS. is forwarded
without stumps for return it will be understood that
the copy is to be destroyed if not acceptable. Per-
sonal applications for return of MS. cannot receive
attention. Further. The Bulletin desires those
sending MS. to distinctly understand that it is not
responsible for the preservation or transmission of MS.
To Amateurs in Black and White.
Anyone supplying to The Bulletin original
humorous or other topical drawings in line or ivash,
of sufficient merit and interest and adapted for
direct reproduction, or any interesting photograph
illustrative of a current event will be paid for same
on acceptance. Any picture containing a good idea
but unfitted for direct reproduction —i.e., any picture
which has to be re-drawn —will be paid for as a
suggestion only. The conditions under which such
artistic contributions xvill be received are those
applying to MS.
To Travellers Al>roa«l.
“The Bulletin’s” representative in London is
L. St. C. Grondona, No. 1 AVardour Street
(near Piccadilly Circus), W.l. Copies of
“The Bulletin” can be obtained from him or
the bookstall in tlie Main Hall at Australia
House. Al:o from Messrs. Gordon and Gotch, 75-
79 Farringdon Street, London, E.C.4.; and W. Daw-
son. and Sons, Cannon House, Breams Buildings,
London. E.C.Jj.; E. T. Hole, Holerth Satire Ser-
vice, 46 Fleet Street, London, E.C.; “The British
Australian and New Zealander,” 414-11 Australia
House, Strand, London, W.C.2; F. Algar, 58 Grace-
church Street, London, E.C.3.
South Africa.- —The Central News Agency, Cape-
town, Durban and Johannesburg; Dawson and Son
Capetown and Johannesburg; Havana House, Durban;
Rhodesia News Agency, Salisoury; Benoni News
Agency, Benoni; Handel House, Kimberley; and
others.
Canada. — G. S. Forsyth and Co., 217 Hastings
Street West, Vancouver, B.C.
U.S.A. — Chicago: J. Roland Kay Co., 161 East
Erie Street, N. Michigan Boulevarde; Post Office
News Co., 33 West Monroe Street, Chicago. New
York: Brentano’s, sth Avenue and 27th Street, New
York City; Schultz News Agency. S.E. Corner 6th
Avenue and 42nd Street, New York City; Hotaling’s
News Agency, 203 West 41st Street, Nexu York City.
Washington: Liberty News Co., Seattle. Washington;
Wheatley News Co., 704 Market Street, San Francisco ;
Wallace, The New Orleans News Man. 105 Royal
Street, New Orleans, La.; The Wide World News
Stand, 5414 South Main Street, Los Angeles, Cal.
Egypt. — Jacques, Horn and Co., the Colonial
Book and News Stores, Port Said, Egypt.
Hong Kong. —Brewer and Co., 6!)6 Pedder Street,
Hong Kong.
China. —Brewer and Co., 31 Nanking Road,
Shanghai, China.
Penang, S.S.— K. Abdul Rahman, Bookstall,
Eastern and Oriental Hotel.
Ceylon. — T. L. De Silva, 30 Chatham Street,
Colombo; Plate, Ltd., Bristol Studios, Kandy; M.
Atmaram and Sons, 44 Chatham Street, Fort, Colombo.
Papua. —Whitten Bros.. Samarai and Port Moresby.
Fur. — A. Barker. Suva; Harry Gardiner , Metropole
Hairdressing Saloon. Suva.
Overseas Advertising Representatives.
London. — L. St. C. Grondona. No. 1 Wardoux
Street (near Piccadilly Circus), W. 1.; Gordon and
Gotch, 75-79 Farringdon Street. London, E.C.4.
U.S.A.— J. Roland Kay Co.. 161 East Erie Street,
N. Michigan Boulevarde. Chicago.
Postage Rates.
Single copies of The Bulletin (registered as a
newspaper): — Commonwealth, New Zealand and Fiji:
lOoz.. Id. United Kingdom: 4oz. to 10oz., lkd.; each
additional 40z.. Id. All Sea Route: 160 z., lkd.
British Possessions and U.S.A.: 4oz. or part thereof,
Id. Elsewhere. 20z.. Id.
sfce'S!&xzl2eiv7i.
THURSDAY, DECEMBER 29, 1927.
COMPLICATIONS OF THE
CONSTITUTION.
Edward Mitchell, K.C., of Victoria, is no
small authority, and when he appeared be-
fore the Commission which is inquiring into
the Federal Constitution and dropped three
bombs in quick succession, the explosions
commanded respect. He mentioned these
matters as being, in his opinion, illegal:—
(1) The baby bonus.
(2) The Navigation Act, in so far, at
least, as it extends beyond the regulation
of coastal shipping and prohibits other
ships from trading in these waters.
(3) Any decision of a Federal arbitration
court which regulates the wages of railway-
men or other Government employees.
The Constitution certainly contains a clause
authorising the Commonwealth to grant
“bounties on the production or export of
goods,” but though a baby is produced and
may Be exported, it is doubtful whether it
can be classed as goods. The Navigation
question is hardly so clear. Shipping and
Navigation were overlooked when the list
of Federal powers (Clause 51) was drawn
up, though the clause gave authority to
control “trade and commerce with other
countries and among the States”; but this
afterthought appears in Clause 98: —
“The power of the Parliament to make
laws with respect to trade and commerce
extends to navigation and shipping, and to
railways the property of any State.”
It is then a question whether the patch
which Clause 98 put on the seat of the pants
of Clause 51 authorises discrimination
between locally-owned and externally-owned
ships in the coastal trade, and whether the
control of trade and commerce by sea in-
cludes the control of shipbuilding in the
matter of seamen’s accommodation, and
various other matters. The problem about
the power of a Federal arbitration court to
fix the wages payable to railwaymen and
the like arises out of the principle that all
payments out of State revenue are con-
tingent on the State Parliament providing
the money. If the Federal court fixes a
new rate, or orders that the old rate shall
be paid for less work and thus orders the
payment of more money, and if the State
Legislature fails to provide more money,
the best course seems to be for the Federal
court to find the difference out of its salary.
* sjs $ s[c
But Mr. M;tchell’s list of difficul-
ties by no means exhausts the pos-
sibilities of the Constitution in that line.
Another one, for example, arises from
the fact that the Constitution does not
empower the Commonwealth to engage in
trading or industrial enterprises of any
sort. It may acquire, build and own rail-
ways in a State or States, but it isn’t men-
tioned that it is authorised to build or own
railways in a place like Canberra, which is
not in a State, or to “control railways with
respect to transport” except for “military
and naval purposes.” The declaration, by
high legal authority, that the Common-
wealth has no legal right to run mer-
chant ships raises, though in a less acute
form, the problem of its right to run trains.
As regards the ships, the hill of difficulty
might perhaps be surmounted if the seven
vessels were sworn in as ironclads or made
special constables; but to swear in a train
as a naval unit would involve some effort.
All the trouble and all the complications
would, of course, have been averted if the
Constitution had declared what powers
rested with the States and gave the rest to
the Commonwealth, with the proviso that
the latter might transfer odd bits of
authority to the States if necessity arose.
Instead, the powers of the Commonwealth
are defined and the States have everything
else. When it is discovered that something
material was left out of the definition the
States can certainly put things straight by
making the necessary surrender. But that
isn’t easy. The process consists in both
Federal Houses passing the required bill
by an absolute majority, and in securing a
popular majority vote in four States out
of six, and also a popular majority vote in
the Commonwealth as a whole; and all
these popular majorities must be secured
on the same day. In the United States
amendment is easy by comparison. It
requires the assent of two-thirds of the
Federal Congress and of three-fourths of
the States, which number 48. But it is
merely the State legislatures which have to
assent. And there is no sudden-death
element in the process. As the assents
come in they can be stuck on a file till
enough have arrived. And if New York
(population 10.000,000) says no it is all
the same provided Wyoming (195,000) says
yes.
* * * #
Finally, the puzzle may yet arise whether
Canberra itself isn’t liable to arrest for
having no lawful visible means of support.
Clause 125 says rather confusedly that the
capital shall .Be in purely Federal territory
and also that it shall be in N. S. Wales, and
already some Federal members are so tired
of the sight of each other in a quiet vil-
lage that they may grasp at any straw.
GOOD NIGGERS AND BAD.
A. S. Cripps, who is said to have lived in
Mashonaland for 23 years, has written a
book entitled “An Africa for Africans.” It
is a sympathetic volume, with a yearning
over our colored brother who has been done
out of his land. The author admits that he
doesn’t see how the white man can get out
of Africa, but if the white could get out.
and leave the nigger, who is, it seems, his
mental equal, to run the show, he thinks it
would be desirable. The thorough senti-
mentalist holds that the white man should
leave Maoriland and India to their rightful
owners, the “natives,” whose fathers were
intruders and land-stealers themselves, and
abandon Palestine and Mesopotamia to the
Arabs who stole them from previous in-
habitants in historic times. He believes, in
a general way, that the title to every bit of
land belongs to the last nigger who held it,
he having probably got it by being the
worst nigger.
South Africa was a land of stirring scenes,
but they happened more than 23 years ago.
The first Dutch settlement was made with
a view to growing vegetables for the supply
of sailing-ships on the long, scurvy-stricken
sea-trek to India. The settlers made
acquaintance with the rightful owners (at
least, they said they were rightful, though
they might have killed off previous holders)
of that part of the country. They were
unclean dwarfs wnth a language like a pig’s,
and they were in process of rapid extermina-
tion by bigger men of the Hottentot brand
from the North. Still bigger men (Kaffirs)
were shoving from behind. An epidemic
decimated the first two lots, and the rem-
nant took service to a great extent with
the increasing white men. Shortly there
came on the scene the biggest men of all,
who called themselves Zulus, and were ruled
by a military genius named T’Chaka. He
wasn’t the rightful owner of anything in
particular, but he was a genius.
It was reckoned that in Natal there may
have been seven or eight thousand survivors
out of half a million more or less rightful
owners after T’Chaka had passed. Niggers
beyond, hearing of his approach, left their
lands to whoever wanted them, and fled
south or west or any old where. The mix-
ture consolidated into a nation as it ran.
These adventurers are reputed to have
extirpated about 25 tribes to make room
for themselves, and as the Zulus were still
exterminating at a great rate, it was a time
of action.
By this date there wasn’t much left
in these parts but black new arrivals
and white men, who almost began to look
like original inhabitants and rightful pro-
prietors themselves. So when a body of
Dutchmen grew tired of British rule and
moved off, there was plenty of vacant land
available. However, to make their posi-
tion sound they offered to purchase an area
from T’Chaka’s murderer brother and suc-
cessor. They found him quite reasonable
as to price, and he signed documents with
alacrity. The chief drawback was that he
then butchered the ambassadors, and sent
out his army to extirpate the white com-
munity in a general way, likewise any black
community it could find. He thus made
the beginning of a series of wars, in the
course of which various tribes slew one
another as well as the white men, and it
became uncertain if any nigger had much of
a claim to any particular patch of soil.
This wasn’t a solitary or a rare experience.
When the British dropped in at West
Africa they found some alleged rightful
owners, a rather feeble flock, in process of
extirpation or enslavement by the Ashan-
tis. These cheerily admitted that they
were themselves very recent arrivals from
the North, who had stolen a new country
and killed earlier claimants. As they were
no more willing than the Zulus to stop
extirpating, a British force ultimately
entered their capital, Ivumasi, holding its
nose because the smell of unburied human
sacrifices made the air blue.
When the white man is moved, for good
or bad reasons, to take over the govern-
ment of a colored man’s country, and sup-
ply it with roads, railways, drains, medical
advice, internal peace and primary and
secondary education, the colored man of
certain types proceeds to multiply exceed-
ingly and begins to overcrowd. Then there
is apt to arise a cult of partially-baked
white intellectuals who say that the men-
tal development of these people proves
them quite as capable as the white man
to run a complex and up-to-date civilisa-
tion. A striking instance is that of Egypt,
where Britain has fixed up the native with
a universal-suffrage Parliament which he
doesn’t understand, and restored to him the
national status which can hardly be said
to have existed since foreign rule began
in the days of Cambyses.
These remarks apply solely to white men.
Merely whitewashed men like the Turks
educate nobody, and don’t become embar-
rassed by superfluous subject populations.
Solomon Malaprop.
PLAIN ENGLISH.
Costs for the Defence.
The verdict of not guilty in the Higgs
trial in Sydney is a convenient peg upon
which to hang an argument for what is a
long overdue reform in Criminal Law
administration.
First glance at Civil Law. Suppose John
Rowe, gentleman, sues Richard Doe, male,
to recover the amount of a wager between
them concerning an event at the tin hares.
The case is heard and, naturally, a verdict
is returned in favor of the defendant. As
a matter of course Doe gets costs. This
does not mean that he leaves court as
heavy in pocket as he enters it. Gent.
One and the Taxing Master see to that.
But it does mean that the loser contri-
butes something towards the expenses of
the other.
Turn to Criminal Law. Artemus Jones,
a bank clerk, is arrested on a charge of
embezzlement, haled before a magistrate
and committed for trial. Released on bail
he goes to an attorney. Counsel is briefed.
The Sessions sit. Jones is arraigned, tried
and acquitted. Counsel fees with all the
etceteras have been paid in advance. That
is at once the etiquette and the wisdom of
the profession. After arrest Jones was
suspended from his job. His wife and
children, however, still appeared to expect
three meals per day, the life policy must
be renewed, the fire premium and mortgage
interest paid, the furniture man staved off
and a large amount of immediate cash
provided. Stepping briskly from the dock,
therefore, Artemus Jones is welcomed by
a weeping wife, a pair of mortgagees, en-
thusiastic creditors, a hunt for work and
financial ruin.
Admittedly guilty men do sometimes go
free. But cannot the State pay for its
genuine mistakes? Should a State tramcar
charge over you in the streets, the State
will pay for the damage its careless ser-
vants have occasioned. But if the State
Piosecutor charges over you in a Criminal
Court, you patch.up your own damage and
consider yourself lucky to have an oppor-
tunity of so doing.
The remedy is an amending section of
the Crimes Act; and such section might
run something like this:—
1. On acquittal after indictment the
presiding Judge may in his absolute discre-
tion grant a certificate for costs of defence.
Such certificate shall entitle the discharged
person to receive from the Treasury an
amount not exceeding such sum as may by
rule of Court be prescribed.
2. Before granting such certificate the
presiding Judge shall be satisfied (a) that
there has been a verdict of not guilty; (b)
that such verdict is in his opinion a proper
one; (c) that the accused person (i) ought
never to have been indicted or (n) has affirm-
atively proved his innocence of the offence
charged, or of any offence upon which alter-
natively he could have been convicted, or
(iii) has otherwise been affirmatively so
shown to be innocent in fact; ( d) that tlie
accused person has not within 10 years pre-
viously been convicted ; and (e) that the con-
duct of the accused before or during trial
was not such as to disentitle him to this
relief.
3. Such certificate shall only be granted
after application made, and every person
acquitted shall be informed of his right to
make such application.
+
What Does Australia Live Upon?
The question of what Australia lives upon
may Be illustrated by a few figures. For
1925-26 the Commonwealth’s industry pro-
gressed thus, according to official estimate:
Persons employed in agriculture and the
pursuit of the cow diminished by . . 19,550
Persons employed in pastoral industry
decreased by .. .. .. .. 129
19,679
Factory employees increased by .. ~ 10,971
Net decrease . . . . . . 8,708
Information concerning miners and seamen
isn’t available up to date, but these classes
are of small importance. The moral seems
to be that all the crowd of people of both
sexes who came of working age during the
year found no productive employment avail-
able for them, and that between 8000 and
9000 who previously had employment lost
it. So it is inferred that these folk lived,
in some way or another, on loans, and that
among the results are a mass of works
which will be a curse and a burden, inas-
much as the community will be heavily
taxed for an indefinite number of years to
meet the losses on them. The gigantic and
diseased proportions of the year’s borrow-
ings bear out the theory.
Yet Australia has almost unlimited room
for manufacturing expansion, with a local
market at hand, and always growing. Even
in their small discouraged way manufac-
tures show a capacity to expand and furnish
employment. The objects of concentrating
on them are: (1) To provide a great quan-
tity O'f employment at good wages; (2) to
reduce payments to people abroad for manu-
factured wares by £50,000,000' a year, or a
good deal more, in consequence; (3) thus to
create a surplus of exports over imports
which will pay the annual foreign bills
for interest, etc., and gradually reduce the
debt, and do this without any extra taxa-
tion; (4) and, as a natural corollary, to
cease from borrowing another 20 or 30 or
40 millions abroad to cover annual lia-
bilities, thus adding every time another
million or so to the taxes which the farmer,
among others, has to pay.
Some day it may occur to the man
struggling w r ith small success on the land
that it is because of the insufficiency of
local manufactures that taxes and railway
freights and fares and the cost of living are
so consistently on the rise. Then he may
have less patience w T ith Freetrade fools and
hypocrites, whether they call themselves a
Country party or something else.
«.
Should the Family Doctor Operate?
“Carysfort” (who is a Macquarie-street
man): “Dr. Nil’s” letter (B. 15/12/’27) con-
tains many misstatements, some of them
dangerous.
It is utterly untrue that the passing of
the examinations necessary for legal quali-
fication ensures or pretends to suggest
competence to perform operations. In fact,
it is impossible for the recent graduate
to have acquired the experience necessary
for even minor operations. During his
course thfe student has acquired a sound
training in the theory of surgery and in
surgical pathology, and has performed a
few simple routine operations on the dead
body. He has watched many actual opera-
tions, and has, on occasion, acted as second
assistant in the operating theatre, which
means holding a retractor. By these means
he has imbibed unconsciously the principles
of surgical technique on which he can build,
and if opportunity is given him he may
become competent in about 10 years. There
is no short cut. A trip to England and
the right to call himself F.R.C.S. gives him
a better foundation on which to build, but.
he can become not only a legally qualified
surgeon, but even a Fellow of the Royal
College of Surgeons, without ever having
opened a whitlow or inserted a stitch, and,
indeed, he may be temperamentally incap-
able of ever becoming a surgeon.
It is untrue that a house or casualty
surgeon in. any of our metropolitan hospi-
tals is expected to perform major emergency


operations and that he does them compe-
tently. He never by any chance does more
than first aid in such cases. His duty is to
decide whether the opinion of the superin-
tendent is necessary. Any operation other
than stitching a superficial wound is per-
formed by one of the honorary surgeons. It
is true that modern aseptic methods have
enabled inexperienced surgeons to operate
without killing their patient, but that is
about all they do not do to him or her.
Contrary to popular belief, manual dex-
terity is a very small percentage of the
armamentarium of a surgeon. There is
nothing more dangerous than a dexterous
“clever” surgeon who lacks experience and
judgment. The most important factors in
the make-up of a surgeon are thorough
pathological knowledge, good natural judg-
ment developed by long experience, a
surgical conscience and experience in hand-
ling normal and diseased tissues. Some of
these factors are bom in a man, but can
only be ripened by long experience and
thorough training. The occasional surgeon
of the suburbs and country town, when in
doubt, usually removes an organ on the
principle that what does not exist can give
no further trouble. Such removal is often
unnecessary. Unnecessary operations owing
to inexperience are performed daily in coun-
try towns and the w T rong operation just as
frequently. The scandal of the suburban
would-be surgeon is as great, and there is
even less excuse in his case.
The making of a surgeon is slow, and a
man can only become a reliable surgeon
by assisting a good surgeon for at least
five years and tfien commencing to operate
under expert supervision. A man would
not dream of allowing the local general prac-
titioner to remove a cataract from his eye,
but will hand over his wife’s or his own in-
ternal organs to the g.p.’s tender mercies
with scarcely a qualm. The Australian
College of Surgeons has been inaugurated to
stop this. This explains the outbursts by
the general-practitioner surgeons.
Do not be deceived by long arrays of
letters nor by the statements of compe-
tency by the surgeon and his friends. The
only possible and safe rule in choosing one’s
surgeon is to inquire if he is a surgeon or
surgeon specialist on the staff of a metro-
politan hospital, and if not on the full staff
how long he has been an assistant. In arriv-
ing at the relative merits and suitability
among such, be guided by the advice of
your family doctor. If he proposes to do
the major operation himself sack him and
avoid him for the future.
-
Stiggins and Shortodds’ Triumph.
On reaching office near the close of Vic-
toria’s financial year, the Hogan Govern-
ment found that it would have to rake in
a good deal more revenue, the Allancocks
having left it with a thumping deficit. One
of its proposals for raising the needful was
to introduce the totalisator, which has been
an institution in every other State for years.
From this source in 1926-27, the S. Aus.
Government got £84,575 by means of a 5
p.c. tax, £2391 in unclaimed dividends and
£7153 in fractions, the last amount being
paid to charities. In N. S. Wales, .where
the tote is restricted to an unsatisfactory
form of “place” betting and is further handi-
capped by extortionate deductions (13.86
p.c. last j’ear), the Government’s cut was
£233,800. The Hogan Government’s idea
was to adopt the S. Aus. rate of tax and the
Westralian system of “straight-out” and
“place” machines, a combination which
would very likely have given it a steady
£200,000 p.a., if not more, though its anti-
cipations were very modest.
Naturally, the Argus flourished its gamp
in the Government’s face, and the Rev.
Neilemiah Wowse denounced the proposal
as “immoral” and Moses McShortodds
said it was “iniqvitous.” But the general
body of opinion was decidedly favorable.
Apart from the financial aspect, many people
have had the experience of being outrage-
ously fleeced in the matter of odds on
crowded days at Flemington and Caulfield.
And even those who have never seen the
tote in operation know (1) that it doesn’t
act at all like the insolent harpies who say
“Ten bob’s no good to me,” and offer “two
der vun” when the fair price is six or seven
to one, and (2) that it is always there
with the money when the backer calls to
collect.
The measure was introduced by the Gov-
ernment on non-party lines. It was accepted
by the people’s House, the members of
which were elected in April, being passed
through all its stages without amendment.
But the hopes of Messrs. Wowse and Mc-
Shortodds were centred in the Uppish
Chamber, which hasn’t had an election since
June, 1925, wffien nine of the 17 retiring
members were returned unopposed and the
vote in the contested districts averaged
32.41 p.c. And the Uppish House did not
disappoint them. It threw out the bill on
the second reading. Not so much because
it hates the tote as because it hates the
Labor Government and would like to em-
barrass that Government in every way.
The Council has shown bad judgment, as
well as bad feeling. Rejection of the tote
means that another penny or twopence in
the £ will have to be added to the income-
tax. And it is the Uppish Chamber electors
who will suffer. If its constituents can be
brought to realise this, some healthy feeling
will at last be introduced into the triennial
elections.
Compulsory Unionism.
The recent thunder from Mr, Piddington’s
Sinai, imposing compulsory unionism on
the Newcastle steelworkers, isn’t quite as
bad in principle as some of the opponents
of the lately deceased Slang-Whangs have
been trying to make out. So long as indus-
trial conciliation and arbitration are
accepted features of the social system, there
must be unions, both of employers and em-
ployees, or the thing can’t work. And there
isn’t anything particularly admirable about
the employer or employee who accepts such
advantages as are to be gained from the
existence of a union while refusing to pay
a sub.
If all the trades unions (on both sides)
were to be abolished to-morrow by Act of
Parliament, they would crop up again the
day after to-morrow as secret societies.
Pember Reeves, of Maoriland, in the pre-
amble to his pioneer Arbitration Act, stated
plainly that it was a.measure to “encourage
the formation of industrial unions.” The
preamble stood on the Statute Book for a
few years and was then taken out in,
deference to the opinion of certain wealthy
supporters of the Liberal party who thought
unionism didn’t need any more encourage-
ment. But there is nothing the matter with
the principle of compulsory unionism so
long as the State that imposes the com-
pulsion sees to it that the unions obey the
law and give their members a fair deal.
Maoriland does its best to ensure this by
prohibiting levies for other than industrial
purposes, by making union accounts subject
to audit at the hands of a Government
official, and by exercising strict supervision
over the rules and regulations of all organi-
sations registered under the Arbitration
Act. Excessive entrance fees or subscrip-
tion rates are not countenanced.
There is not, in Maoriland, any general
principle that compulsory unionism is to
be encouraged—the usual award preference
clause merely enjoins the employer to take
a unionist in preference to a non-unionist
if, in the employer’s opinion, the unionist is
as good a workman as the non-unionist —■
but there are not a few awards in which,
by consent, or even at the suggestion of the
employers, union membership is compulsory
on all employees. That is easily under-
standable. Unions' registered under the Arbi-
tration Act are liable to heavy penalties if
their members go on strike during the
currency of an award. Workers subject to
an award but not members of a union can
be penalised for striking, but in practice
it is found very difficult to convict in such
cases. Good employers belong to unions
and don’t object to their employees belong-
ing to unions, unless, as in some cases in
Australia, a weak Government allows the
law to be broken. But the fact that there
are Governments that don’t or can’t govern
doesn’t affect the theory of the thing at all.
4
Motors, Morons and Murders.
Somebody killed R. L. Leslie. After a very
long trial a jury has found three young men
not guilty. But it certainly was somebody;
and that certainty compels some unpleasant
reflections.
The modern craze for speed, born of the
motor-car has developed a tendency to
irresponsibility. Instances of this occur
almost every week, when speedsters who
have collided with pedestrians or another
vehicle do their best to escape discovery.
But the most disturbing feature of the situ-
ation is that many people who are not
able to own cars themselves seem willing
to go to even criminal lengths to use them.
It is hardly safe to leave a car standing in
any street of an Australian city nowadays
without taking the most elaborate precau-
tions against it being stolen or taken away for
a joy-ride and abandoned in a ruined condi-
tion. It is on record in Westralia that a
youth wishing to take his girl for a motor
ride murdered a taxi-cab chauffeur for no
other reason than that it seemed to him
the cheapest w r ay of getting a car. In Eng-
land a week or two ago a policeman was
shot dead by some joy-riders in a stolen car
whom he had pulled up .to interrogate.
The car-stealing craze may or may not be
behind the Leslie tragedy. Nevertheless, it
is becoming a dangerous menace to the
community in Australia, not so much from
the actual theft itself, but from the satur-
nalia of drink, lust and even rape that
recent criminal trials have shown us to be
associated with these illicit joy-rides.
In nearly every State in Australia the
“borrowing” of a horse, worth, perhaps, a
fiver, is a felony. When a young “blood”
steals a motor-car from its parking place,
runs it to semi-ruin and then abandons it,
he is gently chided and fined, perhaps, a
tenner at the most, the fine being paid by
his long-suffering family or his mates. The
times are more than ripe for a complete
reversal of the legal position with regard to
this matter. The young “blood” who
gets away with somebody else’s car
should be handed the same treatment as
the man who throws a saddle on someone
else’s horse without the latter’s permission.
The present system of letting car-stealers,
off with a nominal fine is asinine, and is
responsible for a good deal more crime than
the unobservant imagine.
♦
Hollywood.
Most Australians seem to think that
Hollywood is a typically American insti-
tution and something that the whole Re-
public is proud of. As a matter of fact,
it is very widely regarded as’an altogether
unhealthy growth, and the best elements
of American life shudder at it. And the
mixture of pity ; and contempt which they
feel for Hollywood they feel also for Holly-
wood publicity.
A good example of this has just come the
way of The Bulletin. Three months ago
this paper laughed at some ridiculous
claims made by the Post-Intelligencer of
Seattle regarding the U.S. Navy in the
course of a “boost” of a new picture. For
instance:—
“Lieut-Commander P. T. Weight of the
U. S. S. West Virginia remembers when the
Emden was an unholy terror. He wasn’t on
the West Virginia then, but played with a
spunky flock of submarines off the Irish
coast. He crossed and recrossed the path of
the Emden, sometimes fleeing from her, some-
times chasing her, trying to trap her while
the lanes were being cleared for convoys.”
Captain Cluverius, of the West Virginia,
happens to have been one of the officers
who came to Australia a couple of years
ago; and he writes wondering that The
Bulletin should have taken any notice of
such rubbish. “No officer of the American
Naval Service,” ’ he writes, “could have
been responsible for the story.... As for
the officer mentioned, in 1914 he was en-
gaged in making every effort to perfect
himself in his profession, so that if the call
for help should come from those sorely
pressed we could make an efficient and
effective response to that call. We did.”
Incidentally Captain Cluverius says:
“Every officer of our service who made the
recent Australian cruise holds in affection-
ate regard the memory of that delightful
contact with our friends to the southward.”
4
Tfte Right to Live,
The explosion of “Eromeno”:—
“The Curse of the Casual” (B. 15/12/’27) sounds
good ; but if the only way to cure the curse is to
end him, what will you put in his place, and how
will you end him ?
To-day the number of casual laborers on the
market is a standing disgrace to Australia. I am a
station-worker. My employment book shows seven-
teen weeks’ work for this year. To get this I had
to travel over 900 miles of country. I consider
that I have been lucky; hundreds are worse off
than myself. I have kept a fair check and find that
a big majority of them are returned Diggers. A
fair percentage of them are men who, like myself,
were to find their jobs ready for them when they
came back. Flossy Tickleme holds those jobs to-day,
and smug-faced hypocrites like the writer of the
article under discussion put their brollies under their
arms each day and patter to their offices to smirk
to bare-legged parasitical hussies, whilst the men
who made this possible wander homeless through the '
vast spaces of this continent, battling for a crust.
Are we not entitled to demand our legal pound of
flesh from those who have filched the whole carcase ?
Shall I, and hundreds more or less fortunate than
I, allow the canting humbugs who still push their
way into Diggers’ re-unions as the leading lights of
districts, handing out the old, old slush of what
the country thinks of us, etc., etc.—shall we remit
to them one shekel of the bond? Shall we, who
know that we voluntarily relinquished our chance
in life for the safety of those who could , not go,
give one moiety to those who could but wouldn’t
go, electing to stay behind and scoop into their
rapacious maw the plums which we were then culti-
vating? I say no. Whilst being ready and willing
to give a fair day’s work for a fair day’s pay, yet,
whilst we have laws permitting the huge monopolies
which are obtaining a stranglehold on Australian
capital and industry, crushing like a Juggernaut
all possibility of competition from the small man,
I, and others like me, will do all in our power to
make them pay in worry if we cannot make them
pay in cash. We’ve already paid in both, and why
should they escape?
We who struggle for an existence on casual labor
see Governments importing the back-wash from
Southern Europe and the clod-heads from
J. island, and, on the other hand, sec
them absorbed on arrival. Half the cocky sheep-
farmers of Western Queensland run their bits of
selections with this class of labor, whilst the men
who made it possible for them to hold their land
in safety travel hundreds of miles seeking for a
bare existence, and ale treated with cold indifference
or haughty sneers. If Australia stopped wasting
borrowed money on pauper immigrants, abolished
its fool Arbitration Courts, made monopolies
impossible and looked for immigrants amongst the
manufacturing and primary producers of means in
the Cold Country, the problem of unemployment
would be in a fair way to solution, automatically
reducing labor unrest and at the same time giving
our place-hunting politicians a chance of reducing
our national debt.
And in sorrow The Bulletin remarks :
“Eromeno” complains that he has had only 17
weeks’ work in a year, and in consequence intends
to make huge monopolies pay in worry for the con-
ditions which they tolerate if they don’t produce.
“Eromeno,” though he feels too much of an Ishmael
at the moment to notice it, is really on the side
of this paper, which wants to end those conditions
and the mental atmosphere they create amongst those
who suffer under them. It wants to see “Eromeno”
and his mates holding steady jobs and earning a
better annual income than the most favored of casual
workers is ever likely to command.
“Eromeno’s” question as to what could take the
place of the casual has been already answered. The
answer is “machines.” The industry in which
machines cannot be very largely used is a low-wage
industry; the industry in which they can be very
largely used is a high-wage industry every time.
And the proper policy for this country—it has always
■ been The Bulletin’s policy—is to substitute high-
wage for ’ low-wage industries. Had “Eromeno”
been brought up . in the way The Bulletin has so
often recommended, he would have a skilled trade
at his finger-tips now, and Flossie Tickleme
wouldn’t have been able to steal his job.
4
The Plagues of Egypt.
From Lionel Buckland (Cairo): It will be
a-, surprise',. to the Diggers who served in
Egypt to know that the recent death of old
Zaghlul Pasha (B. l/9/’27) is a' positive
disaster. His death has possibilities of
grave disorder which he was "striving to
avert. Zaghlul. in his .last years was work 7
irig wholeheartedly 'for peace and.agreement.
Egypt has been given an ultra-modern
system of constitutional monarchical gov-
ernment, but it has neither the education
nor the political consciousness that can make
the system workable. Actually, until his
death, Zaghlul was the controlling power
which had given a surface peace. Sarwat
Pasha, the Prime Minister, an infinitely
cleverer man than Zaghlul, was supported
and kept in office, and together they were
working for the ultimate end of a real
Egyptian Government by Egyptians. The
future now is obscure again, and in spite
of the undoubted success of the King’s
European visit and the accord between
Sabwat Pasha and the English Foreign
Office, the hotheads of Egypt may wreck
the wisest plans.
The public security of Egypt, outside the
towns' has deteriorated at an alarming rate.
Murders have increased to a degree which,
if it had the statistics, would make
Chicago jealous. Village feuds are fought
out on almost the scale of battles. In fact,
the countryside has relapsed into a con-
dition which bids fair to emulate that of
the spacious days of Ismail. Informed
observers here are sure that a period of
direct personal rule by the King, supported
by the bayonets of the army of occupa-
tion, must come.
4 ——
Grubs a la Carte.
It has been asserted that 22 tons of cock-
chafers and cane-beetles, representing 10a
millions of insects, were destroyed in one
cane season in North Queensland. The
Government Entomologist suggested that
in Europe these creatures, and especially
the cane-grubs, would have a commercial
value. In these days of critical chemical
analysis, everything we eat is reducible to
a formula. And on a formula here was
good tucker going to waste.
Food in its ultimate morality or decency
is plain custom. We know of the frog-
eating propensities of certain of our late
gallant cobbers, and we' cannot say that
Monsieur; and Mademoiselle are any the
worse for it. Many white men as well as
Binghi have delivered postprandial, eulo-
gies on the gastronomic virtues of the
snake and the wood-grub. The unsesthetic
looking oyster was, we know, a - banquet
delicacy at many a wine-swilling orgy
away ' back in 1 the times when Horace
rhymed for the Roman bloods. These
and other diversities, in, epicurean tastes
are- mostly the results of habits formed in
the long ago. Yet there was a time pro-
bably when the swallowing of oysters was
“simply not done.”
During: the Great : Scrap, when food
panics /were .as frequent, as certs in a
punter’s diary, a party of horn-rimmed
Yankee scientists went thoroughly into the
question' of grubs as an auxiliary food sup-
ply. Appetising stews and soups made
from them were tasted, and the profs, cal-
culated that the creatures were A 1 and
their food values equal to those of the
higher animals favored by carnivorous
man.
Australia has a range of insect pests suf-
ficiently wide to tickle the most diverse
palate. If we could but swing the tide of
food ethics towards the waiting hordes of
our anathematised but apparently quite
nutritive pests, we would solve some of our
most knotty problems.
» - - ' '
Ships and Men.
“Centurion”: Though the writer of “Uncle
Sam Builds a Navy” (B. 22/12/’27) has good
reason for his estimate of the possible out-
come of the provocative ship-building
scheme, should it ever come to fruition,
there are one or two aspects of the matter
which suggest that the proposed armada may
not prove as formidable as it looks in
the paper stage.
Putting aside the strong political opposi-
tion to the huge expenditure involved, and
the certainty that the coming Presidential
election will have a very important bear-
ing on the fate of the scheme, there arises
the all-important matter of manning the
ships when they are built. The East Coast
American of British stock was among the
finest of the world’s seamen in the-days of
sail. The modern edition of mixed breed
has no time at all for salt water, as the
decline of the American mercantile marine
shows, for one thing. The chronic shortage
in personnel for the navy as at present
constituted emphasises the fact. It is a
matter of public knowledge that the flam-
boyant tour of the American fleet a couple
of years ago would have been impossible
if the United States Government had not
enlisted a great number of landsmen and
nondescripts on a one-year period of service,
with all the allurements of a world tour
plus the learning of a trade free of charge
thrown in.
The official figures of these special “en-
listments” vary, though they admittedly
ran into thousands —some authorities put
the figure at 20.000. If this had to be done
to man a comparatively small fleet for a
pleasure tour of the world, with a discharge
at the end of it, what sort of a response is
Uncle Sam going to get when he tries to
find the ratings for the huge new addition
to his herd- of white elephants? He will
not be able to hold out the former induce-
ment, fc • the increased personnel will have
to Egh" on for comparatively long service
to give them a chance of learning their job.
Lastly, there is the question of the great
number of highly-trained and technically-
' expert men who will be required to officer
the fleet. At the present moment the
American naval authorities admit they are
1500 short on their establishment of officers.


kĵk;kj;kl'l
*
p*£
Insist on SHELL
Be as safe and certain on tour as you are in the city.
The identical Shell Oils and Shell Spirit are available
wherever you go. Therefore, insist on SHELL—always!
The Anti-Carbon Pair
Motor
Oils
A
Motor
Spirit
THE BRITISH IMPERIAL OIL COMPANY LIMITED - THROUGHOUT AUSTRALIA
kĵk;kj;kl'l
POLITICAL
POINTS
Minister Pratten estimates that at least
10,000 people will find employment in the
new industries which are to be opened here
by British and United States manufacturers
—provided the Red element which is going to
capture the A.L.P. and the Easter Confer-
ence doesn’t roar too foolishly about its ass
of a revolution and scare the strangers away.
It is good to have new industries here, even
if outsiders own them. At the same time
it is melancholy to consider that Australia
might own them itself, and a great many
more, if it hadn’t “blewed” its own and its
borrowed substance so absurdly on imported
goods.
Goudie, Richardson, McGregor, Harris
and Crockett, the five Vic. Leg. Councillor)
who were Allancock Ministers, were pro-
minent in the assault on their successors’
Tote Bill in the “non-party” House.
Richardson (South-Western), McGregor
(Gippsland), Harris (North-Eastern) and
Crockett (North-Western) will have to
fight (or run from) an election in June.
So will Saltau (Western), Tyner (South-
Eastern), Beggs (Nelson), Angliss (South-
ern), and Merritt (East Yarra), who were
also among the 19 noes. The names should
be kept in mind.
The Minister for Home and Territories
has reproved people who talk about the waste
on Canberra, and assured them that the
expenditure shows a return of 5 p.c. And
the railways could be made to show a re-
turn of 5 p.c., too, if they charged them-
selves five bob a ton a mile for carrying the
coal they use and credited themselves with
first-class fares for the engine-driver and
fireman.
In the unquiet cinders of Canton there are
now two strata of corpses. The bottom one
consists of the inhabitants whom the Com-
munists and the miscellaneous criminal ele-
ments slew in their three days’ fury, and
the upper one is made up of the Gommu-
nists and their friends whom the Nationalists
slew when they recovered the place. Previous
layers have doubtless been removed. In earlier
days Nationalists and Communists of the
Russian brand were friends, but the over-
bearing Bolshevik doesn’t keep his friends
long after they get to know him.
A Sydney bookmaker recently announced
that he would give 1 per cent, of his turn-
over at a suburban race-meeting to the limb-
less soldiers, and weighed in after the event
with a cheque for three figures. His turn-
over was £3OOO-odd more than went through
the totalisator. This ought to convince the
Bavin Government (1) that bookmakers
are foolishly under-taxed (they contributed
a mere £42,961 last year, whereas £233.866
was extracted from the tote), and (2) that
the tote is insufficiently attractive. The
obvious remedies are a 2 p.c. tax on turnover
in the case of bookmakers—starting-price
agents get 10 p.c.—and the provision of
proper “straiglitout” and “place” machines,
with a reduction of the tote tax from 9
p.c. to 5 p.c.
The first caravan of expelled Russians
lias left Shanghai, the route being lined
with jeering White Russians and gaping
Chinese. The Bolsh-evict.
One of the difficulties in the way of
Uncle Sam’s expansion abroad is his lack
of stepping-stones. He lately tried to get a
landing-place in Japan for a cable to China.
THE TIN HARE.
but the Japs refused him, as they have re-
fused every other nation, The adventurers
who seized sandbanks and coral atolls in
all sorts of unlikely places and hung on to
them on behalf of Britain were frequently
laughed at for their pains. To-day their
foresight seems almost'uncanny.
Compared with some of its partners, Tas-
mania has gone in for plain living and high
thinking, in a financial sense. It felt re-
warded, to some extent, on learning that
Earle Page had testified at the Loan Council
meeting that it stood above the other States
as regards credit on the London market, and
had uttered the impious wish that it would
borrow a few millions on their behalf. In
the two years 1924 to 1926 the Tas.
public debt increased from £23.730 000 to
£24,214,000. In one year of Lang Govern-
ment £17,931,000 was added to the N.S.W.
public debt.
The Bruce-Pages intend renewing the em-
bargo on sugar imports for another three
years from September, 1928. It is a neces-
sary precaution, for the Commonwealtli can’t
expose its greatest North Australian in- '
dustry to the danger of being wiped out by
nigger-grown sugar, subject to queer price
fluctuations. But there is unconscious
humor in the announcement that “the
Queensland Government” is expected to
“guarantee the prompt enforcement of arbi-
tration awards.”
It was reported more than once during the
late session at Canberra that Watt was
coming up from Melbourne to pitch into the
Government. But the member for Balaclava
was rarely seen about Parliament House,
gnd he spoke so seldom that when he asked
the Speaker to explain a ruling it was
regarded as an event. The man who left
Hughes’s last Ministry in a huff—they are
friends again now—dislikes Canberra, or
the labor of getting there, so much that
the present Parliament is pretty certain to
be his last. He hinted as much when F. W.
Eggleston, sometime Vic. Attorney-General,
was entertained after his defeat for St.
Ivilda. and suggested that Eggleston might
miyse Balaclava.
The comments of Joseph Garruthcrs on the
Samoa Commission’s report drew a vigorous
remonstrance from Maoriland Priminister
Coates. The Ma State’s ex-Premier, Coates
said in effect, had no right to butt into the
affairs of a sister Dominion, particularly on
the side of those who were opposing its
authority. The M.L. House of Reps., for
once in a way, was behind Coates almost to
a man.
There is no particular reason, except
sloth, why Victoria should put up with its
Uppish Chamber. The qualification for a
member is that he must be aged 30, have
put in a certain period of residence, and
possess a freehold municipally valued at
£5O p.a. Electors consist of men and
women who own a freehold rated at £lO
p.a. or are tenants of land worth £l5 p.a.
There are fancy franchises for doctors and
others, but most of these people have the
regular property qualification, and only 22
votes of the frilly sort were cast at the
1925 election. Hitherto the progressive
element in politics has made no strenuous
attempt either to enrol voters or to find
candidates, but a little vigorous effort should
produce a Council which would reform itself.
Argentina admits U.S. agricultural imple-
ments free of duty; Australia, which has a
fine agricultural-implement industry of its
own, imposes duties of from 30 to 45 p.c.
Some of the consequences were mentioned
by Customs-Minister Pratten before the
House of Reps, closed down. For U.S.
reapers and binders (Bft.) £9O is charged,
in Argentina and £99 in Australia; Austra-
lian-made Bft. reapers and binders are £9O
10s. here. Two-furrow disc-ploughs from
the U.S. sell at £33 in Argentina and
£29 10s. in Australia; the Australian manu-
facturer’s price is £26 12s. Three-furrow
disc-ploughs, U.S., are £39 10s. in Argentina
and .£35 2s. 6d. in Australia; our own article
is £29 18s. 6d. Diamond harrows exhibit
corresponding differences. It all shows what
a grand thing Freetrade is—for the foreign
manufacturer.
If H. H. Smith, M.L.C. for Melbourne,
is defeated for the Legislative Council in
June, 1928, city charities will lose £2OO a
year. He distributes his Parliamentary
salary among them, and he has paid up till
the middle of next year. The Bulletin is
looking forward to the day when there will
be a law preventing Mr. Smith doing any-
thing of the kind. ‘ If a member will not
accept payment on principle, then the law
should instruct him to leave the money in
the Treasury. The Treasury hasn’t any
votes to buy.
Britain has once more offered to hand
Wei-hai-wei back to China, if a responsible
authority can be found. The place was
occupied in 1898 “for so long a period as
Port Arthur shall remain in the possession
of Russia,” the nption being that the Chinese
would recover that part of their estate by
diplomatic action or otherwise. Instead,
Japan took it. J. Bull has the right, under
the lease, to make the place a second Hong
Kong, if he wishes, but he has never built
anything more offensive at “Wei-hai” than a
cricket pitch.
Although a hostile reception had been
predicted for it, the Federal-State financial
agreement was pushed through Vic. Assembly
by Premier Hogan. On the third reading
there was a majority of 34 to 16. Well-
briefed by Treasury officers Hogan made a
good fist of his introductory speech, but the
Opposition criticism lacked force. Men
who had shone as Ministers when they had
officers to do the devilling for them were
not nearly so effective without that assist-
ance.
The frantic argument about electric trams
in Collins-street, Melbourne, is opening up
wider issues. The whole question as to
whether electric trams should replace cable-
cars or both be scrapped together in favor
of the ’bus in the heart of the city ought
to be considered. The tram anchored to its
rails in the middle of the wide, modern
thoroughfare is fast becoming an anachro-
nism. There wouldn’t, in fact, be any pro-
blem at all if the public hadn’t put its
borrowed money into trams and forgotten
to provide a sinking fund to repay the
principal.
South Australia’s commission to consider
the State’s disabilities has reported that
Federation is a failure. Because of it, “the
people and industries of S.A. have labored
for many years under a burden of taxation
heavier than that imposed in other States.”
Well, let’s see. South Aus. was the most
heavily taxed State per inhabitant once, and
that was in 1902-03. In 10 years it humped
the second heaviest burden. In eight years
it came third, in six years fourth. All the
six lowest-taxed years (the ones when it
stood fourth) were subsequent to 1912. It
wasn’t improving, but it was worsening less
rapidly than its brethren. South Aus.
entered the- Commonwealth with a land
revenue per head which was below the aver-
age by reason of natural drawbacks, and
with the biggest debt per head and the
second-biggest interest bill per head. Being
the mainland State with most cause for care-
ful finance, it went on a dizzy racket. In
1900 it owed £8 12s. lOd. per inhabitant
more than the average, which was £52 2s. 2d.
then. In 1926 it owed £4O 6s. 6d. more per
inhabitant than the average, which had
risen to £lO2 18s. Bd. Therefore the S.A.
folk owed £143 ss. 2d. per head. It more
than doubled its interest; the utterly
incredible rise was from £1,839,367 in 1920
to £4,103,915 in 1926—this for 566,394
people. Federal boards and courts may be
a nuisance, but they are not the -worst evils
that Adelaide is heir to.
FATHER WILLIAM.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“At the last meeting of the central executive of
the A.L.P. a letter was read from Mr. W. M. Hughes’s
secretary enclosing the copy of a speech made by
the ex-Prime Minister against the Nationalist Ministry
and requesting that its contents be made known to
Victorian Laborites generally. After some discussion
as to whether this was a preliminary move to an
application to join the party, it was decided not to
receive the communication.’’ —Ace.
“You are lone, Father William,” the Young
Man said ;
“All parties aloof from you hold.
’Tis years nigh a dozen since Labor you led.
Would you like to be back in the fold?”
“Well,” retorted the Veteran, “that would
perhaps
Be rather too much to assert—
You phrase it too bluntly, you guileless
young chaps—
But trying a feeler won’t hurt.”
“It must gall you,” continued the Youth,
“like the deuce,
It must give you a pain, I’ll engage,
To be ranked as a kind of supporter of
Bruce
And an all-but adherent of Page.”
“The nearness of either askance I regard,”
Admitted the Sage with a grunt,
“But a kick from behind, if it’s viciously
hard,
Hurts more than a punch from the front. ’
“Do you think, Father William,” the Novice
pursued,
“There’ll be nought but high motives
discerned
If your coat you should turn —don’t consider
me rude —
As often as Winston’s is turned?
“Do you reckon, Old Timer, on veal in the
pot
Over there? Are you taking a line
From the welcome the Scriptural Prodigal
got
When he tired of the husks and the
swine ?”
“I have answered three questions, young fel-
low me lad,”
Said the Old ’Un. “That’s ample, me-
thinks.
The interview’s over, permit me to add:
I’m off for a round on the links.
N.S.W.
T. THE R.


MELLOW
COOL
AND
ALWAYS
ALIKE
ARDATH TOBACCO CO: LTD: LONDON
THE BEST
CIGARETTES
FOR
YEARS AT
20 for 1/6
SOCIETY
"And it's
Printed with
WIMBLE'S INKS"
“Topee”: My contractor friend having left
home just before I called, I sought him on
one of his jobs—the re-erection of a recently-
demolished church. On arrival I found two
masons squabbling while levering a corner-
stone into position, their remarks mainly
consisting of “Sacramento !” “Maladetta !”
and sentiments to the like effect. Knowing
my friend to be a staunch believer in the
White-Australia doctrine, I couldn’t help
remarking to an onlooker, whom I took to
be the foreman : “British tradesmen must
be scarce when Mr. Bricks takes on
Italians!” The foreman’s reply was: “Too
ride. Why, t’ese tarn Tagocs don’t stop in
t'ir own tam country I to'know. Me
Maltee!”
* ❖ ❖
“Centurion”: The thoroughness with
which the Imperial War Graves Commission
does its work was illustrated the other day
when one J. W. Adcock, living near Mur-
willumbah (N.S.W.), received a letter ask-
ing him if he could remember giving or sell-
ing a pair of ammunition boots to anyone in
1914, an<j, if so, who was the recipient.
The commission, it was explained, desired
to establish the identity of a long-dead
soldier, and the only clue provided, when his
fragments were chanced upon, was a pair
of hoots bearing Adcock’s regimental number
as a member of the Royal Engineers—he
subsequently exchanged to the Somerset
Light Infantry. It is a stiff question to
fire at anyone after a 13-years’ interval,
but the recipient of the letter is doing his
best to remember.
x * x $
“P.M.” : Apropos the passing of the Lon-
don cat’s-meat man (B. 8/12/’27). I remem-
ber a shrewd old cattle-dealer in South
Gippsland who would start every September
to huy up all the old bulls he could got
cheaply. About the end of October he would
truck them to Melbourne, always to the
same firm. One day I got the secret out of
him when a few drinks had loosened his
tongue: “Saveloys fer the Melbourne Cup
an’ the Derby—bull-meat goes up an ’undred
per cent, then.”
❖ ❖ * j|c
“Loco”: Trainloads (B. 15/12/’27) ?
Here are some that are carried over Vic-
torian lines: Ararat to Ghiringhap, 112 S
tons; Bendigo to Fchuca, 1131 tons; Mur-
toa to Hopetoun (or vice versa), 1088 tons;
Woomelang to Cope Cope, 1381 tons. These
are in the wheat districts, where the country
is generally level. There are short sections
on various lines where even heavier trains
are run, e.g., from Cranbourne to Dande-
nong—mostly coal traffic—-1599 tons is the
load. A crew with from 1000 to 1500 tons
behind the engine have to use far more skill
in handling their train than a mere screw-
coupled 2(JO-ton passenger-train ever de-
mands.
“Anaf”: “Bouragi” overdoes it when he
says that a squadron of warships could pass
between New Guinea and Thursday Island
without being seen (B. 15/12/’27). The
elevated summit of Thursday Island com-
mands a clear view for many miles around
on even a hazy day; from the heights, where
SPOILED IT.
“Yes, it was a case of love at first sight.”
“Why didn’t you marry him, then?”
“I saw him several times afterwards.”
the forts are, I have seen a ship 50 or 69
miles away. An artillery officer who was
stationed there some years back told me
that, he had more than once seen the New
Guinea coast with the aid of an ordinary
telescope. During the war, a lookout was
kept constantly on the top of the island, and
there is not the least doubt that the Wolf
would have been seen had she tried to get
through in tile day-time. Anybody who ever
saw that vessel, with her high, towering
sides, knows that she was much more easily
picked out with glasses than the ordinary
type of cruiser.
* * * *
“Murkah”: “M.G.S.” (B. 15/12/’27) not-
withstanding, cable- and radio-messages were
censored and altered holus-bolus during
the war years. Officers in charge of
coastal radio-stations, skippers of ships
.and even postniasters had a power of
censorship. Where two or three ama-
teur censors in turn had a go at a
message the original meaning thereof
was often completely changed. I am
not defending the delegation of such
powers to persons often totally un-
fitted therefor, but merely stating
something of which I have first-hand
knowledge.
* * * *
“Mei”: There are male prudes even in
the police-force. One newly-joined and
zealous constable was horrified at the sight,
in a Toowoomba (Q.) draper’s window, of
unclothed dummies. “The offinse comes
under the heading of ‘ondecent exposure,’ ”
he told the manageress. Upon being assured
that the figures would only remain nude
until new garments had been selected for
them, he departed with a suggestion that
curtains should be drawn round the window
meanwhile. The dummy ladies made their
appearance next morning attired in bathing
costumes and Milanese underwear.
$ 'i* 's* V
Randolph Bedford: How some Christ-
mases stick in the memory! I remember one
I spent on the dry and dusty track to Norse-
man (W.A.), and another I put in shivering
in the balmy summer of Tasmania’s west
coast at Whale Head, where the winds are
fitted with icicles before the Wind Manufac-
turer turns them loose. There was a Christ-
mas, happier and less cold, in Tuscany,
although I was then qualifying for 10 months’
illness. Lionel Lindsay was there, and my
other good mate Jim Fawcett. My dinner
was mainly a pint of olive-oil, which I drank
from a wine-goblet at table, to the horror of
two English tourists. Our train for Florence
did not pull out until nine o’clock, and we
visited a circus in the old town. To the great
joy of the multitude one of the clowns,
dressed as a bishop, was slapped by the other
clowns enthusiastically and often, and
Lionel and Jim and I joined the general
delight and slapped each other. It was a
joyously irresponsible evening. .Christmas
morning showed us the Apennines snow-
capped, and I had the un-Christian desire to
find the scoundrel who wrote “Beautiful
Snow,” so that I might rub that useless
commodity slowly through his whiskers until
he died. *1 recall an interesting Christmas
Eve with Victor Daley, too, when we ate
a roasted goose, found guilty of trespass
on the poet’s grass and duly executed for the
crim.3. There was the Christmas of 1922
in New York when Santa Claus, disguised
as the Scotch steward of a British ship,
appeared to us in a Brooklyn dock and sold
us genuine Scotch for three dollars a bottle,
when the bootlegger’s price was ten dollars.
God bless Santa Mac Claus! And there was
a Christmas Eve in Melbourne and a great
red orange of a moon to gild the Holy
Season. It was the night that Bill O’Donnell
lost his Christmas turkey, the thief meanly
taking opportunity by the forelock and the
gobbler by the neck while Bill’s face was
temporarily hidden in a pewter-pot. I re-
member that Bill was so doubtful of
the “Peace-on-earth-and-goodwill-to-all-men”
spirit of the season that, having lost the
turkey, he was afraid to go home.
*l* *l*
“Kriz”: If the Jap Nishioka succeeds in
introducing his diving-dress to Broome
pearlers it will be the first time the dress
has altered since its introduction in 1887.
Prior to that naked abo. divers were
employed. The first men to induce the natives
to “bob under” for shell were Taye, an
American sailor, and his partner Subert, who
hit the Nor’-Westralian coast in 1868; before
that the only form of pearling was to hand-
pick the shell when the tide was out. Taye
took some bucks and gins out in a boat and
induced them to dive in four fathoms of
water. As they gained confidence the depth
was increased and pearling became an indus-
try. One pearler, who is still in the game
after 50 years, had a team of 40 natives who
used to bring in 25 tons of pearl-shell
annually. The gins were regarded as better
divers than the men. but the Government
stepped in and prohibited their employment,
and later on stopped pearlers from employing
bucks between September and April owing to
the coldness of the water. News travelled
slowly in those days, and it was not until
the late ’eighties that pearlers from Thursday
Island, getting wind of the rich deposits on
the nor’-west coast, headed their luggers
that way and put their divers over the side
for the first time in King’s Sound, about
80 miles from where the hub of the pearling
industry, Broome, now stands.
RETROSPECT.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Alone to-night I drain the lees of sorrow,
My heart has made confession to my soul,
Fled is the dear enchantment of to-morrow,
The past has opened up its sorry scroll;
There thick and black the deeds of shame
are written,
And no regrets or tears can e’er efface
Those records deeply graven, acid-bitten,
On folios of folly and disgrace.
There, plain to see, the record’s white enane
elled
And gold beginning; there the second part
Wherein as yet no page is sin-entrammeiled.
And then comes Margaret, my first sweet-
heart ;
Here is the first attempt to solve a riddle
And the surprising end of it was sin.
And so again until I reach the middle
Where bitter cynicism entered in.
And then mistakes were multiplied and
doubled,
And then Fate cheated, giving dross for
gold, . .
And then I found my spirit sore and troubled
Because the gifts of love were bought and
sold;
And so the wasted days began to reckon
And days were years, and years began to
mount,
And though I saw hope : wait for me and
beckon
My soul was sick, and nothing seemed to
count.
Can this be then the finish of endeavor,
The death of song, the grave of high
romance?
Alas, the greatest sins of men were ever
The offspring of their sorrow and mis-
chance !
Yet few will understand and few will pardon;
Their moral precepts hold it always true
That weeds don’t flourish in a tended garden,
Yet in Life’s secret garden plot they do.
No tears of weakness tremble on my lashes,
The night can weep for me, the wind can
wail;
And, if the fire of dreams dies out in ashes,
Well, there are other knights to seek the
Grail.
But oh the quest for me is done and over,
Only the young and pure may win at last
Their blessed vision; though my heart’s a
rover
I fear the future written in the past!
THE LETTER OF THE LAW.
PATIENT: “Well, I did as you advised — I’ve drunk more water this last month than
I’ve taken for years.”
DOCTOR: “Good! And cut out the whisky?”
PATIENT : “Well, not altogether. But I’m taking water with that too.”
MERVYN O'HARA.


Charitable and affluent punter taking-
pity on bookmaker reduced to penury
MO 7?? IST: “ Dqn t hurr y. folks—the
road belongs to you.”
THE POLITICAL BING BOYS: “In-
come-tax will be abolished, and we
won t appoint any more Royal Com-
missions!" , -
First-night Speech of Bee-yewtiful Act-
ress: “I hate you all, and I hate your
country. This is the silliest part I have
ever had, and I never played so badly.”
Civil Servant singing ode
in praise of Canberra.
EMPLOYEE: "No, Sir, you’re too
kind—l can’t take it; I haven’t
earned it!"
THINGS WE DON’T EXPECT TO SEE IN 1928.


kĵk;kj;kl'l
Wireless and Cable
and Telegraphic
Address, “Austra-
otel, Sydney.”
The Complete Hotel
—A City in Itself .
REPLETE with all those niceties of accommoda-
tion and service that round off the perfect
holiday.
A cuisine whose delicacy is something to remember.
T^/lustralia
Capital Paid-up, £l/22,100.
The Hotel of the Commonwealth, Sydney.
THE COMFORTER.
“Do you think Percy really loves me?”
“Of course, pet. Why should he make an exception of you?”
“X.N.0.”: I notice that in the new tele-
phone-book the P.M.G. mentions that when
spelling unusual words in repeating back a
’phoned telegram the letters will be “verified
by analogy thus: A for Albert, B for Bob,
etc.” Every signalman reading a test-
message for exercise uses a method of this
sort, but the words are better selected.
There is nothing about the general sound of
“Albert” that connects it exclusively with
“A.” On the ’phone it might easily sound
like “Egbert.” Similarly “Bob,” which
might be “Mob” or “Lob.” The naval signal-
man uses “Apples” and “Butter” for “A”
and “B.” Here is the rest of his alphabet:
Charlie, Dough, Edward, Freddie, Gold, Harry,
Isaac, Jerry, King, London, Monkey, Nuts,
Orange, Pudding, Queen, Rabbit, Sugar,
Tommy, Ullage, Victor, Double-U, Ex,
Young, Zebra. No two of these could pos-
sibly be confused.
$ ' * * :|s
“Kune”: The fire brigade of Newmarket,
a suburb of Auckland, unwittingly staged
a scene on a recent Saturday night that
would have made a Hollywood promoter’s
mouth water. The call arrived about 11,
and the fire-fighters were soon dashing to the
locality indicated. A red glow in a bed-
room window brought the engine to a halt
and a ladder was immediately hoisted.
With the alacrity of their calling, the fire-
men soon had a hose lead rushed up the
ladder, the window was opened, and before
the mistake was realised a married couple
reading in bed had received a cold douche
from the city water supply! The real fire
was next door.
* * * *
“C.Q.” : The recent Argus photo of Tarli
Ivarng, the “mystery lake” of Gippsland,
isn’t the first that was ever taken by a long
chalk (B. 22/12/’27). In 1907 Dr. E. O.
Thiele, a young geologist working in the
Mount Wellington district, surveyed the
pool, and his photographs were thrown on to
the screen in a lecture at the Australian
Church, Melbourne. Sixteen years before
that Dr. A. W. Howitt, with two com-
panions, made the trip, and lantern slides of
their snaps were shown at a meeting of the
Field Naturalists’ Club. Altogether, Tarli
Ivarng isn’t as mysterious as it seems. It
is hard to get at and therefore out of the
tourists’ ken, so it is infrequently visited
and periodically gets forgotten.
* * * *
“Simon”: There is one proprietor of a
large Sydney emporium with a sense of
humor, as well as a big heart. Not very
long ago a shop-detective hauled before him
an old woman who had been caught “lifting ’
a pair of cotton-and-rayon stockings. “What
did you do that for?” roared the boss. “To
keep my poor old legs warm for the winter,”
sobbed *" the culprit. There was a pause,
and the next question came more gently.
“Well why didn’t you take a decent pair
while you were at it?” Then to an assistant:
“Take this lady round to the hosiery and
let her select a couple of pairs of good,
warm woollen stockings.” And presently
the. old girl marched out with the goods on
her arm and a blessing on her lips.
* * ' * *
“C.Q.”: It is curious how the genus tough
hates and dreads anything of the genus
dog. The other Sunday in Ivanhoe
(Vic.) a joy-rider ran his car on to the
pavement in the main street of the
town, carrying away several posts, in-
cluding one packed with concrete, and
bringing down a couple of verandahs
on the heads of passers-by. Having
discovered that no damage had been
done to himself, he
made off. The local
constable comman-
deered another car
and, insisting that his
large but mild-lookiug
dog should make one
of the party, set off
in pursuit. The
quarry, when over-
taken, became abusive
and reached down into
the bottom of the car,
presumably for a
weapon. The dog
promptly leaped into
the vehicle, and the
whole drunken party
capitulated without a
murmur. If all ‘our
policemen had pets as
useful as the Ivanhoe
cop’s - there would be
fewer broken helmets
and torn uniforms in
the police-courts o’
Mondays.
* *
“ J.E.” : The liqui-
dation of the dream of
the Australian heirs to
Yankee Senator Clark’s
fortune of £113,000,000
is announced, and the
dividend is nil. Delu-
sions of this sort are apparently based on the
idea that all rich dead men’s fortunes are
wandering about in search of a claimant, and
that anybody of the same name, provided he
lives in Australia, may expect a look in. This
is akin to the old stage law of inheritance, by
which, if there was a will, the property
belonged to anybody who could secure the
document, and in the absence of a will it
went to the nearest villain.
* * * *
“Malo” : Bird music is delightful, notwith-
standing “M.G.S.” (B. 8/12/’27), even
though a concert by such performers might
fail to please a city audience. And bird-
songs differ with the seasons, their love-
songs, like those of the poets, being always
the sweetest. There must be thousands like
myself who love to hear the blue-wren first
thing of a morning, also the thrushes and
butchers and magpies. The imported gold-
finch is as good a singer as any canary, and
the calls of other birds are just as cheering.
Though they may not be rhythmical, they
CURTAIN.
“The wife explored my pockets last night.
“Really! What did she get?”
“Oh, about the same as any other explorer
—enough material for a lecture.”
are sweet and natural, and that’s more
than the voices of many of our human
artists are.
* !]: * *
“Herodot”: When the new Government
Savings Bank in Castlereagh-street, Sydney,
is completed it will have the most up-to-date
system of alarms and protective devices in
existence. It is not only the ordinary bur-
glar that is guarded against; even if the
bank were to fall into the hands of looters
during a period of civil disorder, the open-
ing of the doors to the main safes would
probably occupy days, for each door weighs
30 tons, and is made of specially-prepared
resistant steel. Incidentally, the Bank of
England puts its main trust nowadays in a
system of underground tanks from which the
vaults containing gold can be flooded at the
shortest notice.
$ * * *
“Mars”: For presentation purposes a
purse of sovereigns sounds handsomer than
a wallet of notes, and it was decided to
recognise our departing postmaster’s 15
years’ service by handing him the former.
About £25 was collected, and then arose the
problem of how to convert it into gold for
the duration of the ceremony—this was in
1919. The local bank-manager wouldn’t help
us, but finally an old German resident was
found who was willing to lend the bullion on
condition he got it back immediately after
the presentation. On the great evening the
purse was handed over with much gusto by
the Mayor. When the recipient rose to
return thanks the lender of the coins was
observed to have quietly mounted guard over
the only exit from the hall. He was taking
no chances.
“Sol. M.” : Feisal, a picturesque 40-year-old
horseman and journeyman king, has been
visiting London to apply for a place on the
League of Nations, and is said to have re-
ceived an undertaking that he will become a
whole monarch and shift for himself, instead
of being a British-protected half-monarch, in
1950 or as soon as his little country and its
2,900,000 inhabitants get into the League,
whichever event comes first. Feisal has had
a mixed existence. Ilis father
was the eldest living descendant
of the prophet and legitimate
Caliph, wherefore Abdul Hamid,
the bogus Caliph, gathered in
the family to Constantinople,
where they were suffered to
live with a baleful eye fixed on
them for 18 years. To have
killed them would have trans-
ferred their claims to a man
who was beyond the Sultan’s
reach, so they lived on, while
the old man became grumpy and
the young men mildly dissipated.
When Abdul passed off the map
they returned to Mecca, where
the war found Father Husein
as Mohammedan Pope and his
sons serving as apprentices.
They plunged into the strife
against heavy odds; but for
Lawrence and for lavish British
supplies, the household might
have had to flee to parts un-
known. The final victory
brought the family a present of
three pensioned . or subsidised
kingdoms. Old man Husein,
who was cordially disliked by
his subjects, lost his early to
some riotous neighbors, and be-
came again a clersrvman in exile.
Son Abdullah hangs on to his
little principality east of the
Jordan, with British advice and
support. Son Feisal provided
himself with a sketchy kingdom
of Syria, with Damascus for a
capital, but as he failed to hold
it he was furnished with more
commodious quarters in Meso-
potamia, and has Bagdad as his metropolis.
His ambition for complete and immediate
sovereignty, with the unspeakable Turk as a
neighbor, suggests the picturesque young man
in a hurry.
❖ * +
“Obadiah Ren”: Mt. Gambier’s drainage
(B. 8/12/’27) probably goes out to sea. Years
ago, so the legend runs, marked and sealed
casks were dropped down the mysterious hole
at the back of the Town Hall and were later
picked up at sea somewhere off Robe. But
whatever becomes of the subterranean waters
they are responsible for some curious pheno-
mena. All through that part of the country
you can hear a horse trotting miles away.
The earth-crust seems to be about 60 feet
through—that, at any rate, was the depth
to which a well in the railway yard at the
Mount had been carried when the bottom dis-
appeared with tools and tackle. There were
a couple of men in the well at the time and
they were saved —how deponent knoweth
not.
MEMORIES.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
I’ve forgotten a lot of those places; the
names are too ’ard to recall,
But a man ’ud be right for the rat-liouse if
he could remember them all.
The wongi was ’ard to get on to; it ’ud box
a man up every way.
A shanty was sometimes a caffey, an’ some-
times an estaminay.
An’ it wasn’t much that a Digger could do
with a lingo like that.
There was “Albert”—you’d say that was
easy, but that’s where you’d fall in the
fat.
An’ the Froggies were ’ard men to deal
with, as we found when we went for our
spells.
But a man, if ’e tried, could get goin’ tray
bon with the mademoiselles.
A man’ll remember ’is cobbers, whatever else
gives ’im the slip,
Though some of ’em finished in Flanders an’
some of ’em stopped on Gallip—
An ’the way that they’d stick to a feller when
’e got mixed-up in a brawl —
There’s a ’ell of a lot I’m forgetting, but I
’aven’t forgotten it all.
I never was much of a soldier, the ’eads an’
me couldn’t agree
On the way of controllin’ an army, but they
’ad the pull over me.
An ’sometimes I reckoned I’d work it, an’
leave ’em to sink or to swim,
But a man ’ad to stick to ’is cobbers, though
they were as fed up as ’im.
But, lumme, I don’t ’old no grudges for the
red ink they put in me book;
A man’ll remember the good times when ’e
’as forgotten the crook.
There’s days when a man gets disgusted with
the way things are goin’, and then
It bucks ’im a bit to remember the things ’e
learned there —about men.
W.A.
OSCAR WALTERS.
IN ARCADY.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“Mr. Shelton, for the defence, said that if a
young man was to be criminally prosecuted for
speaking to a strange young woman in the street,
half of the love marriages of to-day would never
take place. A girl up North Melbourne way would
think very little of being spoken to in that way by
a respectable young stranger in the street.” — Argus.
In Arcady the maids were free
Of hampering mock-modesty;
No shriek from Tressida was loosed
If Corydon, unintroduced,
Bespoke his lonely, love-lorn plight.
And now a lawyer erudite
To ancient precedent returns,
And finds (ask not just how he learns!)
In certain customs they agree
In Melbourne North and Arcady.
In Arcady they waited on
No stern and proper chaperon
Their wayward meeting to approve ;
No heavy cop was there to move
Them on ; conventions ne’er forbade,
When heart was hot and eye was glad,
The “date,” in some sequestered glade,
That Chloris with her Strephon made.
And street and glade are one, you see,
In Melbourne North and Arcady.
In Arcady and Melbourne _ North
There was, and is, no calling forth
Of sudden maidenly reserve;
No court-house shadow shakes the nerve
Of lads who maids unknown would know,
When Cupid bends a willing bow.
They recognise, though Grundys
Necessity knows no “knock-down,”
When youth to youth calls amorously,
In Melbourne North and Arcady.
And quite correct. .. . And who’s with mt
For Melbourne North and Arcady?
VICTORIA.
HASEN.


“Clerk'’: A curious accident occurred in
Adelaide the other day. A boy employed in
a motor works nudged another in fun as lie
passed. The other was using a hose to clean
an electric motor, and ho turned it on liis
mate. It landed the young man in hospital
with serious internal injuries. The stream
issuing from the nozzle was compressed air
at a pressure of 1501 b. to the square-inch,
and it nearly went through the body of the
practical joker.
* * * *
“Baldwin”: Single-engine train-load re-
cords'' 1 The figures given by “A. Jack” (B.
l/12/’27) are beaten every day on the
B. H. P. Co.’s Iron Knob to Wkyalla line
(S.A.). Big Baldwins haul single-handed
800 to 1000 tons of ironstone, plus weight
of 50 ore trucks, five or six water-tanks,
and any general cargo offering, over a ruling
grade of lin 65. The 34 miles between the
two towns is covered in 1 hour 50 minutes,
including usually two crossing stops.
Though only 3ft. 6in. gauge these locos, were
the heaviest in Australia until S.A. Com-
missioner Webb brought out his Mammoths.
They tip the beam at 147 tons.
* * * *
“Jean”: Grim church relics (B.
24/11/’27) ? In the old English Church of
St. Stephen’s, Opotiki (M.L.), is a communion
cup, still in use, from which frenzied savages
once drank a murdered missionary’s blood.
They had previously hanged him on a handy
willow-tree and then cut off his head. The
body was afterwards recovered by a Govern-
ment force, and interred in a spot under-
neath the present altar, but the head had
disappeared for ever. In a land where the
Maori is now chiefly represented by fat, easy-
going elders, dusky sheiks in Oxford bags
and short-skirted shingled maidens, the cup
is a curious link between the old and the
new.
* * * *
“Clerk”: The luckiest somnambulist of the
year is a 20-year-old student who was travel-
ling on the Melbourne express to Adelaide.
After arising and taking a few turns in his
sleep he jumped, pyjama-clad, through a
window of the train, which was travelling
at 30 miles an hour. Miraculously he landed
on his feet and escaped without a scratch.
Walking back along the line, wide awake
now, he informed an astounded station-
master at Horsham of his plight. The second
division of the express picked him up. His
explanation was that he had been dreaming
he was in the wrong train.
* * * *
“Bihai”: They aren’t all like “Biro’s”
M.L. major who dropped his rank for good
and all on returning to the butcher’s block.
In Papua I received a note from an acquaint-
ance requesting the loan of a magazine and
signed “Captain Blank Blank, M.C.” Later,
I found another M.C.-holder grinning over
one of the gallant captain’s cheques simi-
larly signed, which he said he would like
to frame as a curio. Tapping the Digger-
teller at the local bank, I found that “Cap-
tain Blank Blank, M.C.,” was in the regis-
tered signature-book. When last heard of
the cap. was somewhere in the region of the
Edie Creek goldfields; I sometimes wonder
what the miners made of him.
* * * *
“Kriz”: Two pressmen had a yarn over
the air the other night between Java and
Perth, the use of a short-wave outfit by
experimenters 2000 miles apart breaking
down the barrier of distance. This is the
first time two-way telephony has been used
for communication between this country and
a foreign one.
* * t- *
“Expectation”: Even life-insurance actu-
aries cannot foresee every possibility, and the
latest in possibilities is reported from
Vienna, where an ancient, after purchasing a
big annuity at a very low figure, went off and
got himself “monkey-glauded” forthwith by
Voronoff. The insurance co. is trying to
call the bet off, on the grounds that this sort
of thing is outside the contract, but the
annuity-holder retorts that he is entitled
to employ every possible means of prolong-
ing his life. Somewhat similar difficulties
have arisen, before now, in Australia. About
30 years ago a leading insurance company
found itself called on to pay an unusual
number of claims owing to many policy-
holders having taken part in the British
New Guinea gold rush of the period, and
having paid the not unusual penalty for
those primitive days. Thereafter, applicants
for policies had to declare that, to the best
of their knowledge and belief, they were
not going near the bally place. The war
also brought wisdom. In the last policy
the writer took out, after that was over,
warfare and travelling in aeroplanes, or
otherwise engaging in aviation, was specially
guarded against. Now the Austrian warning
has been sounded, we may expect to find
special provision against the monkey-gland
process where annuities are concerned,
though in the case of the “ordinary” life
policy the companies will doubtless view it
with entire' approval.
■ * * *
“Meridian”: M. G. Skipper says (B.
15/12/’27) he can remember the time when
a new poem by Rudyard Kipling was
cabled round the world. I think I know
the cabled verse in his mind, and I remem-
ber typing it from the siphon recorder (now
obsolete) for the press in Adelaide. It came
through like this: “Across a world where all
men grieve stop new line and grieving strive
the more stop new line the dead days
range like tides and leave stop new line
their dead on every shore stop begin new
verse,” etc. That’s all I can recall. Is it
enough?
* * *
“Barr-twenty”: “Carisbrook, Jun.” (B.
20/10/'27), is hardly accurate in his account
of the so-called riots at Broome in 1914 and
1920; Japanese aggressiveness was the direct
cause in each case rather than any racial
feud. The 1914 riot was caused through
Japs ill-treating Koepangers on boats on
which there was no white man; nine Japs
and seven Koepangers were hurt, but there
“I’M THE NEW TYPIST.”
were no deaths. Most of the scrapping
was done a quarter of a mile away from the
foreshore, and the Malays kept well out of
it. The 1920 riot was much more serious.
Th-s Japs on an allegedly-dummied boat were
accused of barbarous conduct towards Koe-
pangers, such as dragging them after a sail-
ing lugger by a rope until they were nearly
exhausted and, after a spell, repeating the
performance. The Koepangers organised for
revenge. They attacked at 9.30 p.m. on a
pitch-black night, and within a quarter of an
hour the three chief offending Japs were
corpses. Knives, axes, nail-studded waddies
and guns were used by the scrappers, and
it took about five days for the Avhite popula-
tion to quieten things down. I was there
during both brushes.
* * * *
“Maunga”: There are some queer substi-
tutes for fermented and spirituous liquors in
no-license King country (M.L.), away back
from the Main Trunk. An old chap recently
brought in from the Backblocks as witness in
a court case was asked by counsel what was
his favorite drink, and after a little hesita-
tion admitted to a taste for methylated
spirits and Worcester sauce —when he could
get nothing better. The writer once met a
really seasoned resident of the region who
discussed current topics between sips of
kerosene. He was as greasy as a soap-boiler’s
boots.
* * * *
“W.1.U.”: Broken Hill miners were glad
to see the golden half-quid withdrawn from
circulation. When dad is on contract mum
only knows that she is going to get cither a
good or a bad pay, the handing in of the
envelope being her first intimation of actual
earnings. If there is an odd 10s. in the
pay an eraser is handed around to take
the 10 out, and dad lias two more bets in
his pocket. When the half-sovereign was
put in the envelope it used to be rubbed
over on the outside of the packet with a
blue pencil to show it was fhere, and that
could not be erased cleanly enough to avoid
showing mum that the old man was weighing
in short.
* * * »
“X.D.” : The motor-car is helping to make
daylight robbery in Melbourne as popular
as the nocturnal variety. The other after-
noon two men drove up to a jeweller’s shop
in Carlton, casually heaved a wheel-jack
through the window and made off with a
tray of baubles worth £lOOO. The whole
thing was done so quickly and easily that
the petrol-chariot was out of sight almost
before the proprietor could get to the door
and read the number. That wasn’t much
use to him. Of course, the car had been
stolen.
* * * *
“Mephisto”: It isn't often a fleeing law-
breaker leaves so plain a trail as a man
who put his fist through a showcase in a
Brisbane shop the other night, and there-
by severed an artery in his arm. The
woman in charge presently recovered suf-
ficiently to ring up the detectives; they
arrived and promptly took up the chase. By
the light of their torches they followed the
gory trail down a blind lane to a building
where it ended abruptly. But they weren't
long at fault. One of them saw blood on the
side of the building, and they climbed it.
On the roof they found their quarry, bleed-
ing profusely and so weak that they had to
lower him down by means of a rope. But
for the sleuths he would almost certainly
have bled to death in his lofty lair.
* * * *
“Lao-dah”: One of the star performers at
the annual Vie. State School exams, was
George Melnnes, aged 15. He gained a
merit certificate, and was regarded by the
judges as equal in mathematics and drawing
to any pupil in the schools. The boy is
deserving of much praise, but when it is
added that he is deaf and dumb one realises
what an immense amount of self-sacrificing
work his teachers at the institution in St.
Ivilda-road must have put into his achieve-
ment.
s|i * * *
“M.G.S.”: “Rikki T” (B. 22/12/’27)
mentions the late Henry Tate’s bush sym-
phony, “Dawn,” as one containing the verit-
able “songs” of birds. I have heard that
charming piece performed in Melbourne. It
contained the barest suggestion of the noises
made by birds. It is true Tate went to the
bush for his inspiration, but he brought back
as much of what he heard as landscapist
Blamire Young brings of what he sees. Inci-
dentally, a few notes don't constitute a
“song.”
* * * *
“Mako”: The explanation of tin- carriage
of water to Maori forts on high hills in the
bad old times (B. 22/12/’27) is probably
simple enough—cheap labor and plenty of it.
Slaves crept by night to near-by creeks —
there is always a near-by creek in Maoriland
—silently filled their gourds and stole back
to the garrison inside the pa. Most of the
alleged “wonders of the world” may be
accounted for in the same way. Ihe 1 yra-
mids, Angkor, Easter Island, Stonehenge,
and other gigantic conceptions all attest the
possibilities of unlimited man-power, at
nothing .per week and with no hampering
Arbitration Court. Even in modern America
the millionaire from Chicago gazes wistfully
on the great old homes of Virginia and
wonders how they did it.
* * * =l=
“Eromeno” : Shin-plasters (B. 15/12/’27)?
Biddy Murphy, who used to serve out
tobacco-juice and chain-lightning to all and
sundry around Birdsville (Q.), specialised
in this form of currency. She always used
a heavy blue paper, and made her “notes” in
batches from one shilling upwards, affixing
to each what we presumed was her signature.
Being a far-sighted financier, Biddy would
bake them in the oven before putting them
into circulation, with the result that they
soon crumbled to dust in her clients’ pockets.
* * * *
“Wingelid”: For the venerable locomotive
competition I enter the “Sandfly,” the quaint
old engine that does the shunting at Darwin.
She has the long smoke-stack, with the queer
cowl atop, seen in pictures of engines taken
in the early ’sixties. In 188 S the Sandfly
drew the first train that ever ran on the
North Australian line; and she was said to
be in her dotage then. But she is still run-
ning and seldom needs a repair.
* * * *
“Topee”: Whatever the petrol car may
have done to the lighter stamp of horse, the
motor-lorry hasn’t succeeded in driving all
the draughts off Sydney streets. The other
morning I was at a friend’s house in a
suburb where Sussex-street and other firms
stable their horses. It was 7 a.in., and
the prads were streaming in to work in
columns. In half an hour we counted 400,
with no sign of a break in the procession,
and they were splendid animals, too.
“Sol. Malaprop” : The people permanently
stationed at Canberra are accumulating a
stock of grievances. Their year is divided
into two parts. One is when Parliament is
sitting, and they tire of seeing the politicians
and their satellites, and the politicians get
dead tired of seeing each other. Another is
the long recess, when
the town is dead, and the
fixtures tire of not seeing
the politicians and their
satellites, and hate the
sight of one another. The
typist girls in particular
consider their lot a hard
one. They are herded, or
most of them are, in the
Government boarding-
house, where they have
one insufficient sitting-
room in which they can
be proposed to, though
the idea of being proposed
to at Canberra is an un-
seemly j-est. And Bumble,
the Beadle, has empha-
sised their status as “in-
mates” by sticking up
notices that they must
not keep grog or receive
male visitors in their
bedrooms, and that even
the mildest form of hen-
revelry must cease at mid-
night. The difficulty is
that the maidens can’t
be discharged from the
service for refusal to obey
rules about their conduct
out of office hours, and
the place isn’t an ordi-
nary boarding-s cho o l
where the refractory in-
habitant can be put in solitary confine-
ment or even slapped.
* * * *
“P.M.”: Queer collections of odds and
ends (B. l/12/’27) ? When I started out
with the A.I.F. I put my tram tickets into
a pocket in my wallet. When I got back to
Melbourne it contained tram tickets issued
in Adelaide and Aberdeen and 42 cities and
towns in between.
* * * *
“Sierra” : It is hardly correct to say that
a single-screw ship steaming in the harbor
under five knots would not have enough
steerage way on to answer her helm (B.
15/12/'27). Such a vessel will answer her
helm without having any headway. With
sailing-ships or fixed paddle-steamers, on the
other hand, good steerage way is required.
In estimating his ship's speed through the
water an experienced seaman judges by the
effect on the water itself —the height and
spread of the bow and quarter waves, etc. -
and not by her rate of passing objects ashore.
* * * *
GIBIT TCHILLIN.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“According to Dr. Lloyd Warner, of California, the
blacks of the Northern Territory are ladies and
gentlemen. Compared with them the people of
New York, London and Sydney are barbarians.’’
So let us change our mode of life,
And hie away to where no strife
Leaves base and barbarous impress,
Where woman sheds her savage dress
(And that would be but little less)
You gibit tchillinV
Yes ; back to nature let us go,
That decent life each one may know,
Where spears supplant divorce decrees,
Where breakfast comes from off the trees,
And flappers bare their legs and knees!
No gotit tchillin!
Why toil and spin the whole day long
And meaner grow amid the throng
That has not seen the better side,
That does not know that it is tied,
Nor grasps the beauties of the wide?
Gibit tikpen or tchillin?
No boots to wear! The hardened feet
Of powdered belles would look a treat!
No bills to pay, no tortoise gees,
And grubs preferred to mortgagees—
And, what is more, no b’s and d's!
No got it tikpen nor tchillin!
And how would politicians live?
And what would .Scotchmen freely give?
Would thugs waylay for cocoanuts i
And wlio’d pick up the Capstan butts,
And who’d hand out the civic "cuts”?
That’s more'n tchillin!
No! Savages we all must be —
And all, I think, will echo me
Whose fancy sees the gentle breeze
Play hide and seek with covered, knees—
By cripes, it's wort’ a tchillin!
You gibit tchillin?
N.S.W.
EDWIN WALLER.
PIE.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
When such a noble topic calls
To rouse the bard to song.
Who could be mute? The theme enthrals
With poignant zest and strong.
I cannot play the brave bassoon,
The pibroch skirling high.
My lay is but a feeble croon
To hymn the wealth of Pie!
No spurious tarts engage my Muse,
No light and flippant cates;
But that staunch substance which endues
With heart to mock the Fates ;
Let steak be choicely brandered. Then
Way for those stately treats
Which utterly misguided men
Have falsely labelled sweets!
Rich sums of gold autumnal days
Are held in apple-pie,
While rhubarb snares the gentle haze
Which drapes the vernal sky;
No trifling kickshaws out of Gaul
Consort with such as these —
Deep unto deep, their noble call
Rings out for Stilton cheese.
But I reserve adhesive oaths
For little tarts of meat
Which dribble gravy on the clothes
When eaten in the street;
And as for all the fiddling puffs,
Eclairs, or what you please.
I never touch such sorry stuffs
For fear of Bright’s disease.
N.S.W.
AHAB MULDOON.


HOTEL SYDNEY
Management: Edward T. Cheesemau.
Accommodation 500 Guests.
The Holiday City’s Largest
and Most Modern Hotel.
Hot and Cold Water and Telephones in
Every Room.
The Hotel Valet Service Cleans and
Presses Day and Night.
There are Electric Pressing Rooms
Throughout for the Use of Lady Guests.
Half-acre of Delightful Roof Gardens.
80ft. above the City Traffic.
A Floor Especially Reserved for Ladies.
Inclusive Tariff from 19/6
Bed and Breakfast from 13/-
Telegrams: “Otelsydne.”
Telephones: M 2251 (16 lines).
BOLS
'Very old
HOLLAND GIN
lit the Slone Bottle
The straw col-
our is proof of
its maturity
Also Bols Silver
Cap Dry Gin in the
Square Bottle with
Green Label. i
.'vi, Jr"
Mill
fr jTT-n.lfltfUt!, •
$
u
A «0
&
l*ie
'S>
5 X
*6
(PATON
III!!*
>5
USHER’S
Sydney’s Leading Residential
Hotel.
Famed for the Excellence of Cuisine.
Table D’Hote or a la Carte.
Rooms with or without private
bath. All rooms fitted with
’phone and running water.
TARIFF INCLUSIVE.
The Famous House Whisky, 0.5. L.,
forwarded to any part of the
Commonwealth.
Cable and Telegraphic Address:
“Usherotel, Sydney.”
64-66 Castlereagh Street, Sydney
PERSONAL
ITEMS
GLOBE
MEAT EXTRACT
GLOBE BRAND
Some January birthdays:—
David Watterston (Argus), 83, and Prof. Gilbert
Murray, 62, on 2nd; Colonel Hurley, M.D., 40, on
3rd ; ex S.A. Minister A. A. Kirkpatrick (sometime
Agent-Gen.), 80, on 4th; Frederick Young (former
S.A. Agent-Gen.), 52, on sth ; E. Jowett, pastoralist,
70, and Dr. Alexander Marshall (Melb.), 79, on 6th ;
artist Sydney Ure Smith, 41, on 9th; Queensland
Speaker Bertram, 53, R. D. Meagher (former N.S.W.
Speaker), 62, and A. A. Billson, ex-Chairman of
Committees, Vic. Assembly, 70, on 11th; Prof.
A. A. DUNSTAN, M.L.A., leader of the
Vic. Country Progressive party of four,
whose votes have carried the Hogan
Labor Government into recess.
Walter Howchin (Adel.), 83, on 12th; Archbishop
Spence (Adel.), 68, on 13th; Federal Minister Pearce,
58, and E. W. Hawker (S. Aus. pastoralist), 78, on
14th; Daisy Kennedy, 35, on 16th; Prof. Radcliffe-
Brown (Syd.), 47, on 17th; knight Clifton Love, 60,
on 18th; knight Owen Cox, 62, on 21st; Colonel
J. M. Arnott, 59, and O. von Rieben (Adel., formerly
of Barrier Miner), 65, on 22nd; Brig.-Gen. Blarney
(Vic.’s Chief Commissioner of Police), 44, and E.
H. Macartney (Q.), 65, on 24th; former Q. Premier
Denham, 69, on 25th; S. E. Lamb, K.C. (Syd.),
64, on 26th; ex-Gov.-Gen. Forster, 62, Conrad
Sayce, architect and author, 40, and Australian
journalist Guy Innes, 46, on 31st.
The Commission of three which is to
manage Sydney for two years vice the late
City Council, which smothered itself in its
own corruption, has been completed; and it
isn’t completely satisfactory. All three
men have grown up among red tape; Flem-
ing, chairman, was for about 30 years in
the N.S.W. Lands Department; Garlick
was head of the N.S.W. Local Government
Department ; Morton has been engineer to
the Melbourne City Council The Govern-
ment tried hard to get Cleary, Tooth’s
general manager, as chairman; but the job
(£5OOO a year) is only for two years. So
Fleming was got instead on his reputation
as an organiser. Lately he has been a
member of Gepp’s Migration and Develop-
ment Commission. The three start their
job on January 3.
N.S.W. Chief-Justice Street became a
Supreme Court Judge at 41; his son, one of
the new Industrial Commissioners, reaches
the status of a Supreme Court Judge at 37.
At Gisborne (M.L.) recently Mr. and
Mrs. Hicks celebrated their golden wedding;
their daughter, Mrs. A. Watson, celebrated
her silver wedding; and her son was married
—all on the same day. A joint affair was
made of it, the wedding coming first.
The initiative of young Australia has been
given another advertisement by a young
Gloucester (N.S.W.) boy named Hampton,
who, following a cloud burst, saw that the
railway bridge over Johnston’s Creek had
given way. Hampton, knowing that a train
was due, swam the flooded creek, and, run-
ning along the railway track waving his
arms, brought the train to a standstill.
Mrs. H. A. Hows, who was born at Bay
of Islands 95 years ago, has just died in
Maoriland. She was the eldest daughter of
James Sheppard, who went over to Maori-
land with Samuel Marsden, the first mission-
ary to preach Christianity to the unsophisti-
cated native. Sheppard was present at the
first sermon preached there by Marsden, and
that was at Oilii on Christmas Day, 1814.
A bank manager of the old school was
William Callender, who died at his home in
Auckland a few days after passing his
72nd milestone. For twelve years he was
g.m. of the Bank of New Zealand’s affairs,
and the semi-State concern grew plumper
under his ministration. He was born in
Melbourne, crossed the Tasman with his
parents at 13, and two years later entered
the one-storey Corinthian temple that still
houses the bank’s activities on the most
expensive site in Christchurch. He gradu-
ated as* accountant, branch manager, assist-
ant inspector, chief inspector and general
manager, and had 50 years ’service to his
credit when he retired.
Dr Haden Guest, a former English M.P.,
now in Australia as part of liis programme
for becoming acquainted with the Empire,
joined the Labor party because of the appeal
of its humanitarian ideals, but resigned
early this year because he believed the party
to be nationally blind. He resigned his seat,
too, because he had won it as a Laborite.
Guest, who has written several books, was
associated with the first child-welfare clinic
established in London ; he served in France
with a field hospital from September, 1914,
until he was transferred to Egypt and Pales-
tine.
When Kelso King, who was congratulated
on the jubilee of his service last week, became
secretary of the Mercantile Mutual Insurance
Co. at the age of 23, the co. leased premises
in Pitt-street at £l5O p.a., and was then
proud of a turnover of £9OOO a year. The
business last year was just a hundred times
bigger. Kelso King ivas a jackeroo in his
youth; but he changed his mind about the
land and joined a bank, from which he soon
passed to underwriting. For many years he
was closely associated with the late Walter
Russell Hall; and in the splendid Walter and
Eliza Hall benefactions you can see liis hand.
The “father of Flinders-lane,” Richard
Allen, has just had his eighty-fifth birthday
party. The hardy veteran, who #s the gov-
erning director of Richard Allen and Sons
I'ty., Ltd., has been in the “Lane” 47 years,
and is still a worker. He was a city coun-
cillor for 12 years.
William Michael Daley, whose name has
been struck off the roll of solicitors, once had
political ambitions and mixed in Sydney’s
Bohemian circle. It was a very unfinancial
circle at the time, and Daley, who had money,
was a welcome associate. At one election,
in 1910, he made a bid for the Labor selec-
tion in Darling Harbor, which went to
Jack Cochran ; and a section of the league
broke away and encouraged him to spend his
money by running as an “independent Labor
man.” The breakaways formed the first
branch league that was ever declared bogus
by the executive. Declaring branches bogus
has since become almost a hobby.
Geelong has lost its centenarian, Morris
Jacobs. It had been customary to give him
a cheer annually since he registered 90, and
that was 12 years ago. There were two
rabbis at the graveside in the Eastern
Cemetery, and in the background a crowd
of old friends, mostly Gentiles.
When Dr. Sugden retires from Queen’s
College, within Melbourne Uni., he will be
succeeded by the Rev. F. W. Kernick, a
brilliant Oxonian, who is now doing
Methodist circuit work in Cheshire. When
the nomination comes up for confirmation by
Conference the question will be raised
whether Australia was as well combed as it
might have been.
“Ivemo”: These oldest inhabitants do get
their people mixed. Contrary to the state-
ment that he began as a shoemaker (B.
22/12/’27), the only sole John Spence,
chairman of Washington Soul, Pattinson and
Co., ever contemplated seriously was served
with a piece of lemon. He was a certificated
chemist before he came to Australia and
learned what he then knew under the Eno
who made fruit-salts and himself. Still a
director of the Pattinson chemist firm, Mr.
Spence was one of its bright lads when it
bought out Washington 11. Soul 25 years
ago.
“Clerk”: A pioneer who has just seen his
eightieth Christmas in Melbourne is ninety-
year-old Jim Morrow, now living at North
Brighton. He came from Ireland in ’4B, was
a bullocky for a time, made a pile at Ararat,
lost it, and then served 30 years with the
railways as a guard.
He knew Batman, saw
his funeral, was stuck
up by bushrangers
twice, was the first
Victorian railwayman
to grow a beard in de-
fiance of an arrogant
regulation, and was an
influence in persuad-
ing Tommy Bent to
pass a bill granting
able-bodied railway-
men an extension of
the retiring age from
60 to 65. A big,
broad-shouldered man,
he was retired com-
pulsorily at 60, but
was taken up to Par-
liament House by
Commissioner Mathie-
son as a sample of
the experienced offi-
cial the department
was losing because of
the lower age limit.
N.S.W. MIN[?]R
FOR AGRICUL-
TURE THORBY,
who has almost pro-
voked a rebellion on
the North Coast by
insisting on the dip-
ping of the sacred
dairy cows.
Dr. Triado, who knew the outer edge of
Australia better than most men, has died too
early at Rushworth (Vic.) —he was only 49.
As a young doctor he went to Marble Bar
(W.A.), and from that centre, as D.M.0., he
had to cover as long distances as any medical
man in Australia. Later the Government
sent him to Carnarvon, in the Nor’-West, and
from there “A.J.J.T” was always a welcome
contributor to The Bulletin. Family ties
brought him to Victoria, where a busy and
useful life lived straightly was ended in
harness.
Peter Loughlin, Lang’s former lieutenant,
who made a plucky fight for honest politics
in N. S. Wales and was beaten at the polls,
got a cheque for £3237 as a Christmas box.
He was reluctant to accept anything, and
had to be persuaded to allow his friends to
do even this much.
Superintendent Ivoetsveld succeeds Supt.
Campbell as C.I.D. chief in Melbourne. He
was born at Daylesford, with Dutch blood
in him and a jaw like the heel of a boot.
He is an easy, genial man to get on with
when you are on the right side of the law.
When you are not you learn that his square
jaw wasn’t given to him for nothing.
The Last Post has sounded for another
good soldier. In 1914 Thomas Whately Rose
was quietly pursuing Costs in W.A. His first
attempt at getting into the A.I.F. failed;
likewise his second. So he hopped on a boat
for Blighty, where he joined an old unit
in his native country. In France the M.C.
and Croix de Guerre quickly came his way.
liis next move was to Italy, where he col-
lected a decoration for valor, but got a germ
of the disease which took him west last week.
After the big scrap he settled in Ivatoomba,
but nearly a year ago was forced to throw
in the towel and was admitted to Prince of
Wales Hospital.
L. J. Wrigley, M.A., assistant chief in-
spector of Vic. secondary schools, is to
succeed the late Dr. John Smyth as Prof,
of Education at the Uni. and Principal of
the Teachers’ Training College. He is 52,
and has been on the administrative side of
the Education Department for years.
“T.M.” : Apropos the Henry Condell that
“A.G.M.” (Lon.) asked about (B. 24/11/’27).
On his arrival in Melbourne from across the
Straits in 1839 he set up a brewery in
Little Bourke-street, and was unquestion-
ably the first Mayor of Melbourne, the which
giddy height he reached in 1842, just after
his election as a member of the town’s first
corporation. The election seems to have
been a hectic affair, for the ancient chroni-
cler “Garryowen” avers that Condell’s suc-
cess at the polls was due less to his capacity
as a publicist than to the influence of his
beer; and a paper of the time declared that
the polls closed amid scenes of drunken con-
fusion.
The cable slipped when it announced that
the death of Captain Andrew Shewan, who
commanded the Lammermuir, left only Cap-
tain Woodget, of the Cutty Sark, as the
survivor of all the old clipper captains.
Unless Captain Bennett, who lived in Mel-
bourne with a telescope mounted where it
could get a view of the bay, has slipped his
cable without proper literary half-masting,
he is still on deck and older than the just-
dead skipper. Shewan was 78, and Woodget
is 94. Bennett in his time commanded the
Thermopylae.
A plucky but ill-advised effort at “going
farming” was mentioned in the W.A. Bank
ruptcy Court when Robert Edward Bradley
asked for his discharge. Bradley was an
English civil servant who retired at the
age of 72 from a law department where he
had been of sufficient importance to be con-
sulted by Ministers of the Crown; and,
with a capital of £llOO, he decided to try
farming in W.A. An agent saw to the spend-
ing of his money, and bankruptcy followed
in two years. The disillusioned man who
thought he could change himself from a civil
servant into a farmer at the age of 72 was
given sympathetic words by the Chief Jus-
tice as he issued an unconditional discharge
to an honest old endeavorer who, in any case,
had paid off £5Bl of liabilities totalling £6BO.
“Schnorrer”: Cremation scored an excep-
tional triumph when Rabbi Dr. Joel Blau,
the chief minister of the West London Con-
gregation of British Jews, was cremated in
accordance with his desire. Although a few
of the Jewish laity have been cremated, the
practice has not been approved generally by
religious Jews. In one Sydney case where
Jewish rites were required for the burial of
a cremated person it was decided, in effect,
that the Chevra Kadisha (which looks after
Jewish burials) need have no knowledge that
only ashes were within the coffin.
Among the few white men left who were
intimate friends of Robert Louis Stevenson
during liis sojourn in the South Seas is old
George Strickland, of Butari Tari, in the
Gilbert group. Every ship that rounds Green
Point dips the flag to the old trader in
his tropic castle. The veteran has known
the eternal summer of the Equator for more
than half a century, and has packed most
of it with rich experience. On one festive
occasion an island monarch pressed him to
accept a gift of six wives picked from the
comeliest young belles of the tribe.
Frederick Chapman, who retired from the
M.L. Supreme Court Bench in 1924, comes
of a legal family. Ilis father was a Judge
before him, and once served as Attorney-
General of Vic. The son, though born in
Wellington (M.L.). got his education at Mel-
bourne Grammar, polishing off in France,
Germany, Italy and England, being admitted
as a barrister o£ the Inner Temple at 22. On
his return lie practised in Dunedin for
many yeai’s, and graduated to the Supreme
JUSTICE CHAPMAN ( M.L. ).
Court after a term as president of the Arbi-
tration Court. He takes a keen interest in
Maori customs, and is an authority on the
botany of the Shivery Isles. George R. made
him a knight the year before he left the
Bench for good.
Bonaventura Cerretti, appointed Cardinal-
Delegate to the 1928 Eucharistic Congress,
is a “priest’s” man as opposed to a “bishop’s
man.” Little things make a big difference.
The fact that he would light his ancient
pipe in any old public place endeared him
to the democratic of the R.C. population of
Australia. Pius XI. has disclosed great
understanding in sending him out to proclaim
the policy for the Church in Australia.
1928.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
I thank the gods that error
Besets me less and less,
That shame and grief and terror
No longer can oppress;
And that the lesser man in me
No longer rules in vanity.
I thank the gods for teaching
That most we take is naught;
That vain is all our reaching.
For most that can be bought;
And that the truest wisdom known
Is not all seeking for our own
Possessions to embarrass,
And selfishness to rust;
And prizes that but harass,
And guerdons that are dust;
Ambition on a shadow mounts —
’Tis only what we give that counts.
And from the stress and fighting
For that I could not name,
The valueless inviting
Though it might be through shame,
The prize 1 fought for long I find
The Eden of a quiet mind.
QUEENSLAND.
RANDOLPH BEDFORD.


IT PAYS TO INVEST IN
PIONEER
m
%
LEATHER
BELTING
::
THE LEADER SINCE 1858.
This famous power transmitter has maintained the leading position for nearly 70 years.
Made and Guaranteed by
T. C. LUDOWICI SON, LIMITED
Pioneer House, 117 York Street, SYDNEY#
INTERSTATE and NEW ZEALAND AGENTS:
VICTORIA: Benson Bros., Ltd., 107-109
Queen’s Bridge Street, Melbourne.
OI’BKNSLANO: lloey, Pry, Ltd.,
Edward Street, Brisbane:
Biirns Philp * Co., Ltd., Townsville
SOUTH AUSTRALIA: John Mclvell and
Sons, Timpson Street. Port Adelaide
\\'E§T AUSTRALIA: Horace Summers,
Howard Street. Perth.
TASj,M AIS'IA: Charles Davis, Ltd.,
“Elizabeth Street. Hobart.
NEW ZEALAND: Friar, Richards &
Upton, Auckland. Blackburn, Smith
& Co.. Christchurch.
NOBEL-GLASGOW EXPLOSIVES.
The Standard of Quality throughout the Empire.
Monobel
Samsonite
Gelatine Dynamite
Gelignite
Blasting Gelatine
Dynamite
Bafety Fuse
Detonators
Cartridges
ADFIELDS
(AUSTRALIA) LIMITED
The largest anti best-equipped Crushing Machinery Works in Australia.
JAW CRUSHERS—DISC CRUSHERS—GYRATORY CRUSHERS
PORTABLE CRUSHING PLANTS COMPLETE QUARRY PLANTS.
Hadfields’ Manganese Steel Wearing Parts for all makes of Crushers.
Works and ] Alexandria, Sydney, N.S.W.
Foundries i Bassendean, Perth, W.A.
Branch l 422 Collins Street, Melbourne, Vic.
Office j T. & G. Building, Brisbane, Q
The WILD CAT
COLUMN
Dalgety and Co., Ltd., pastoral finance,
shipping, merchandise and general agency
people:— .....
Ordinary Written off
June, Profits. Dividends.* Premises. Reserves.
£ £
1918 251,000 14 p.c.= 140,000 25,000 913,771
1919.'. 252.157 14 „ „ 140,000 30,000 970,928
1920.. 282 577 15 ~ ~ 150,000 50,000 1,028,505
1921.’. 130,607 10 „ „ 100,000 1,034,112
Taxation refund, £158,210 .. • ‘ ?’i?n’ooo
Profit from sale of assets, £20,000 .. 1,212,322
1922.. 84 579 15 p.c. = 150,000 20,000 1,101,901
1923.. 239,162 15 ~ „ 150,000 50,000 1,116,063
1924 298 988 17 ~ ~ 170,000 50,000 1,170,051
19#'.' 336,313 17 ” mOOO 75,000 1.236,364
1926.. 220,048 17 „ ~170,000 50, 000
Premium on shares, £128,916 .. L3t0,328
1927.. 232,053 17 p.c. = 170,000 25,000 1,302,381
"*The prefs. (5 p.c.) get £25,000 p.a.
The year was not so good as its predecessor.
Profits in the table are less appropriations to
the Staff Provident Fund and honuses ,on
salaries. The two called tor £50,000 last
vear as against £75,000 in 1920. The pro-
vident fund, by the way, is a nice little nest-
egg now, totalling £241,000. Trading con-
ditions were mixed. The co., which is the
biggest wool-seller in Australasia, disposed
of only 409,037 bales compared with 510,419
bales in 1925-20; hut the price was better,
the average being £2l 13s. compared with
£2O 19s. 4d. in the previous season. Ihe
shrinkage in quantity handled was main y
the result of the drought m Queensland.
On the other hand, the wheat harvest
measured up to 160,500,000 bushels as
against 114,500,000 bushels for 19—5-26; the
export surplus, however, moved slowly, and
the average price was only ss. 7d. compared
with os. 4d. in the previous season. Con-
ditions in the Australian dairy produce and
frozen meat markets were also not good. In
LVlaoriland prices as a whole showed improve-
ment ; and the co. must have gathered a tidy
income from side-lines, such as its motor
agencies, including Rolls-Royce, Hudson and
Essex —the last two are quick sellers.
Between the lot gross profits were prac-
tically the same as in 1920: —
1920. 1925. 1926. 1927.
Gross Profits £957,298 £1,039,221 £951,648 £951,379
Outgoings —•
68 ’ T.” 359,592 418,046 407,547 413,530
D e preciation 20,637 77,.
Interest .. 98,251 109,210 123,906 129,214
Taxes . . 186,241 150,652 125,147 126,582
Total outgo. £664,721 £677,908 £656,600 £669,326
But as you see, it cost more to handle the
business. Exes, ate 70.3 p.c. of the gross
profits as against 69, 65.2, 67.1 and 72.4 p.c.
back to 1923. Disregarding appropriations,
but deducting the pref. renuirements, the
year’s net trading results were 25.7 p.c. on
the ord capital compared with 27, 33.6, 29.8
and 22.9 p.c. in the four preceding terms.
The board’s policy has been to finance the
growth of the business mostly with debenture
money, which totalled £2,999,338 at June 30
last; 824 p.c. of it was in irredeemable 4 and
44 per cents, and the balance in 44 to 64 pc.
terminable stock. Of late the business has
been stepping along more briskly than usual,
and to meet the strong demand for accom-
modation in Queensland and the marked ex-
pansion in Westralia, and to provide for
opening of a branch in Kenya Colony, East
Africa, and the general increase in trade
elsewhere, 100,000 £2O shares called to £5
were issued at a premium of £5 shortly before
the books were ruled off at June 30. Inciden-
tally, one result of the new issue has been
to extend the debenture borrowing powers
bv £1,500,000. When all the new money
is in, paid capital will be £2,000,000, of
which £500,000 is in 5 p.c. non-cum. prefs.
and the balance will be ords. The pref.
requirements and 17 p.c. to the ords. will
then call for £280,000, or £85.000 more than
was handed to shareholders last year, and
there will be a round million of new money at
work to earn it.
Balance-sheet figures reflect the co.’s solid
position and continued growth: —
Liabilities.
1923. 1926. 1927.
Capital . .. £1,500,000 £1,500,000 £1,628,916
Perpetual 4* p.c.. . 499,910 749,910 749,910
4 ‘ . . 1,725,544 1,725,544 1,725,544
Terminable 6* p.c. 300,000 59,203 40,000
6* „ 4,403 2,703
5* ~ 4,585 75,985 74,000
5J 124,399- 142,399
5 40,625 197,356 240,125
” 41 „ 7,910 44,346 27,360
Sundry creditors, etc. 2,830,846 2,964,805 3,356,168
Assets.
Advances, proper-
ties etc. . . £3,G44,976 £4,883,404 £5,433,607
Premises, etc. .. 397,217 392,082 334,344
Stock . . .. 418,347 504,779 910,850
Sundry debtors . . 870,630 1,667,437 1,044,625
Cash & investments 3,014,716 1,648,961 2,029,327
Stock, book debts, cash and investments total
over £104,000 more than the trade and ter-
minable debenture debts. The reserve fund
investments, in at £1,000,000, have a face
value of £1,306,060; the premises, on which
over £1,124,000 has been spent, figure at a
modest £334,344. Advances, up £550,253 dur-
ing the year, stand in the books at £5,433,657,
and there is good reason for assuming that
the management has also made generous
allowance for the possible shrinkage in value
of these less stable assets. In that respect
it is worth recalling that in its 43 years the
co. lias never failed to register a profit; in
its first 10 years no less than £551,072 was
unobtrusively struck off securities of one
kind and another, and the same conservative
policy has been continued throughout.
Although the wheat harvest threatens to be
smaller and produce prices are not what they
were last year, wool is selling steadily at
slightly better prices, and the recent general
lains and the excellent prospects in West-
ralia have taken many of the drab patches
out of the current year’s outlook. The mar-
ket, which has a great respect for the co.’s
remarkable strength and its well-spread risks,
prices the ords. at £l3 ss. The return at
that figure is 6.4 p.c. on a 17 p.c. div. basis ;
and the visible backing amounts to £lO Ss. 2d.
per £5 paid share. The prefs. seldom appear
on ’Change.
* * * *
The Kauui Timber Co.: —
Written
Aug., Profits. Dividends. Oil. Reserves.
£ £ £ £
1918.. 72,385 7 p.c. = 40,950 9,838 209,109
1919.. 71,412 8 „„ 46,800 11,901 221,820
Capital returned, £135,000. Co. reconstructed.
Assets written np, £300,000 of reserves capi-
talised, one fully-paid 255. share issued for
every 15s. paid in old co.
Reserves.
158.883
1921.. 134,001 8 p.c. = 60,000 23,382 209,502
1922.. 87,044 8 „ „ 60,000 19,896 216,650
Contingency fund ( £11,084) taken in 227,734
1923.. 102,858 8 p.c. = 60,000 14,889 255,703
1924.. 104,669 8 „ „ 60,000 15,822 284,450
1925.. 109,459 8 „ „ 60,000 1.4,691 319,218
Special depreciation .. 27,861 291,357
1926.. 71,255 8 p.c. = 60,000 13,880 288,732
Special depreciation .. 30,431 258,301
1927.. 45,881 6 p.c. = 45,000 11,560 247,622
Wliat has happened is clearly visible in this
comparison :
1922 1926. 1927.
Gross profits .. .. £192,828 £152,582 £119,771
Management and office
exes 60,001 51,706 52,754
Taxes 30,147 12,290 1,702
Repairs and maintenance. 16,652 13,385 12,077
In addition £3860 was struck off for bad
debts, £1309 was paid for insurance, the
contingency reserve was drawn upon for
£2187 to wipe out a loss on the realisation
of assets, and, after setting aside £11,560
for depreciation, the year’s final result was
£10,679 short of the div. requirements,
although the rate was reduced from 8 p.c. to
6 p.c., and that called for £15,000 less than
in the previous year. Nor was that all. The
shrinkage in timber values made necessary
a heavy writing down of stocks. This and
other adjustments ate into reserves for
£30,431 —and they had been drawn upon
for £27,861 to meet special depreciation in
the previous term. That is to say, share-
holders could see reserves amounting to
only Bs. 3d. per share at Aug. 31 where
there was 10s. Bd. two years back. The
various accumulations are apportioned in
this w r ay:—
1923. 1926. 1927.
Contingency reserves .. £156,929 £129,069 £98,638
Contingency fund .. 15,471 28,612 26,425
Div. equalisation . . 20,000 50,000 50,000
Fire insurance fund . . 23,134 40,000 40,000
Fire ins. consequential
loss 9,657 24,809 24,809
Log reserve .. .. 911
Marine ins. fund. . . 1,832 4,195 4,529
The only justification for the payment even
of 6 p.c. is the changed outlook in the trade,
due to recent tariff amendments both in
the Dominion and Australia. The Austra-
lian duty on Oregon has been increased by
4s. and on Baltic by 6s. 6d. per 100 ft.
super. That brings the price of those tim-
bers more into line with local costs.
Here is a comparison of balance-sheet
figures:—
1922. 1926. 1927.
Liabilities .. ..£161,178 £80,630 £56,830
Freeholds . • .. 155,646 146,048 138,437
Leaseholds . . .. 133,409 88,962 76,681
Plant, etc 162,605 182,576 181,690
Stocks and stores . . 412,997 364,333 329,297
Book debts .. .. 116,718 124,178 114,867
Shares in other cos, . . 93,166 143,471 144,972
Mortgages, debentures,
Wav Loan, cash, etc. 94,072 99,569 91,001
The financial position is snug. The outside
debt, reduced £23,800 during the year, mak-
ing it £56,830, was covered nearly 1§ times
by mortgages, debentures, etc. The shrink-
age of £35,036 in stocks (£329,297) is
mainly the result of the writing down
referred to above. Provided that was suffi-
cient, the recent partial recovery in timber
values, if maintained, should make any
further use of the axe in that quarter dur-
ing the curent term unnecessary. Much
depends upon the values placed on stand-
ing timber in the co.’s big freehold and lease-
hold forests. The combined holdings appear
in the books at £215,118, and accepting the
past as a guide it is unlikely that they have
been overvalued. The co.’s Solomon Island
subsidiary, formed in 1920 and in which San
( ristoval Estates is also interested, is still in
the development stage.
The scrip, fully paid to 255., has a net
tangible backing of 335. 3d., of which no less
than 20s. is more or less liquid. Rut in the
light of recent history the market looks with
a cautious eye at the co.’s earning power
and the state of the trade: buyers offer
21s. 3d. and sellers stand off at 235. The
return at the middle price is a shade under
7 p.c. on a 6 p.c. div. basis.
t. * * *
II room fields, Ltd. (Sydney), hardware
merchants and ship chandlers, from the time
the co. took its present title: —
To Re- Re-
Profit. Dividends. serves, serves.
£ £ £ £
1920.. 23.540 12* p.c. = 9,657 13,883 33,716
Reserves capitalised, £31,500 .. 2,216
1921.. 12,166 7* p.c. = 11,693 473 2,689
Loss; Deficit.
1922.. 45,644 Nil 42,955
Capital written down, £42,657 .. 298
Profit. Reserves.
1923.. 3,740 2* p.c. = 3,165 575 277
Loss. Deficit.
1924.. 4,859 Nil 4,582
Assets written down, £38,340 .. 42,922
Profit.
1925.. 266 Nil 266 42,656
Capital written down, £42,656..
Reserves.
1926.. 15,894 3 p.c. = 2,544 13,350 13,350
1927.. 3,900 4 „ „ 3,399 501 13,851
What has happened here? Sales have
shown a satisfactory increase, the chairman
says, vet gross profits, which were £47,324
in 1926, fell to £39,428 at last balance, Aug.
31. The probabilities are that the reduction
is mainly due to the 1925 writing down.
Of the £42,656 then lopped off capital
£23,105 represented a reduction in the book
value of stock, and that writing down had
its effect on the following year’s profits,
which climbed to 18.7 p.c. on capital as
reduced. Last year’s net result was equal
to only 4.6 p.c. o n capital; exes. (£35.528),
which were £4098 heavier, and a falling
off in turnover during the latter part of
the term helped to make the drop more pro-
nounced. The co.’s field is by no means a
rich one. The recent fusion of Holdsworth-
Macphersons, Keeps and Hill-Magills repre-
sents one attempt to mitigate the difficult
conditions in the trade. To what extent
improvement on last year’s figures can be
looked for in Broomfield’s is difficult to say,
but nothing like the result written in 1926
can be expected.
Balance-sheet figures reflect the year’s
improved trading
1920. 1923. 1926. 1927.
Liabilities.. . . £29,255 £22,703 £25,950 £33,436
Mortgage .. .. 25,000 25,000 25,000
Premises and plant 15,319 55,313 44,420 44,427
Stock . . . . 89,463 85,095 75,744 78,611
Book debts . . 52,020 37,058 31,347 38,016
Cash . . .. 1,689 269 133 158
The liquid position improved. Stock, book
debts and cash were £58,349 in excess of
the debt —including the mortgage—which is
£2075 better than the corresponding figure
for 1926. On the market, which is not
impressed with the co.’s prospects, the £1
paid shares are offered at 11s. without
attracting buyers. At that price the return
is a shade over 7 p.c. on a 4 p.c. div. basis.
The net tangible backing amounts to 23s 3d.,
of which ISs 6d. is stock.
$ ❖ ♦
Mosgiel Woollen Factory Co. (Dun-
edin, M.L.) :
Writ-
ten To Re- Re-
Oct., Profit. Dividends. Off. serves, serves.
£ £ £ £ £
1918.. 22,828 10 p.c. = 8,346 9,719 4763 30,927
1919.. 22,959 10 „ „ 8,346 8,338 6275 37,202
1920.. 22,631 11 „ „ 9,180 6,400 7051 44,253
1921.. 22,149 11 „ „ 9,180 10,500 2469 46,722
1922.. 14,945 11 ~ „ 9,180 5,000 765 47,487
1923.. 21,318 11 „ ~ 9,180 7,560 4638 52,125
Transferred to capital, £11,923 . . 40,202
1924.. 18,693 10 p.c. = 9,538 5,000 4155 44,357
1925.. 15,358 10 „ „ 9,538 5,250 570 44,927
1926.. 20,065 10 „ „ 9,538 5,000 5527 50,454
1927.. 22,533 22* „ ~21,461 5,000 46,526
The ordinary 10 p.c. div. is sweetened with a
bonus of 10s. per share (=l2-| p.c.), the co.
having more liquid funds than it can find use
for in the business. The gift will be provided
out of the co.’s investments in Government
bonds and deposits, etc., to which £7503 was
added during the year, making £70,491, in-
cluding £12,000 on account of the employees’
benefit fund. After payment of the final div.
and special bonus, visible reserves were equal
to 9s. 9d. per £1 of paid capital (£95,380).
Moreover, the writing down has been strenu-
ous ; in the decade covered by the table no
less than £67,707. or one-third of the declared
net profit, has been put by for depreciation,
and the book value of the fixed assets has
contracted £13,640, being now £42,SOT.
That insistence on facing obsolescence, per-
haps more necessary in the textile than in
any other industry, has placed the eo. in a
very sound position as a profit-earner. The
£22,533 netted last year was 15 p.c. on
shareholders’ average funds, compared with
14, 10.9, 13.5 and 16 p.c. back to 1923, and
capital and reserves as they stood after the
year’s final distributions have to earn only
6 p.c. to pay a 10 p.c. div.
Manufacturing profits have been sensi-
tive to fluctuations in the price of wool:
Working Exes. Cliarges,
Manufac- and Plant Salaries
turing Profits. Maintenance, and Taxes.
1910 .. £21,212 £2,090 £5,191
1915 . . 25,932 3.162 5,482
1920 .. 58,012 8,017 21,472
1922 .. 61.985 9,653 22,442
1923 .. 57,032 7,898 22,532
1924 .. 43,353 6,349 12,820
1925 .. 35,142 5,256 8,536
1926 . . 44,543 6,689 10,645
1927 . . 41,848 6,164 7,634
The management is keeping a tight hold on
exes., which called for only 32.8 p.c. of last
year’s gross profit as against 38.9 p.c. and
39.2 p.c. in the two preceding terms.
Balance-sheet figures disclose a very com-
fortable position :
1914. 1924. 1926. 1927.
Liabilities. . . . £12,719 £34,867 £18,012 £13,751
Plant and fixed
property . . 66,391 53,970 47,063 42,807
Goods ‘. . ... 44,407 68,201 42,247 44,999
Book debts, etc... 10,705 32,682 28,151 28,155
Cash and invest-
ments . . .. 35,705 62,988 70,491
The more or less liquid surplus, including
stocks, was £129,894, which final distribu-
tions will reduce to £112,249. Excluding the
employees’ benefit fund (£13,150), share-
holders could then see 20s. lOd. for every £1
of paid capital in other than fixed assets.
On the market buyers offer £6 ss. for the
£5 shares paid to £4 without attracting
sellers. The return at that price is a shade
under p.c. as long as the 10 p.c. div.
continues ; and that looks reasonably safe.
* * * *
Carlton Hotel, Ltd. (Sydney) :
, Dividends- N Towards Nomi-
Net Pref. Re- nal Re-
Oct., Profit. 8 p.c. Ordinary. serves, serves.
£ £ £ £ £
1921.. 3,139 1600 H P-c. = 1500 39 39
1922.. 2,992 1600 Nil 1392 1431
1923.. 5,111 1600 7 p.c. = 4200 742
1924.. 3,118 1600 Nil 1518 2260
1925.. 7,631 1600 9 p.c. = 5400 631 2891
1926.. 9,706 1600 10 „ „ 6000 2106 4997
1927.. 10,675 1600 10 ~ „ 6000 3075 8072
Trade brightened a little; gross profits im-
proved £2653, reaching £43,058, but net
profits (£10,675) got only £969 of the in-
crease. After satisfying the prefs. the
balance of the year’s net earnings was 15.1
p.c. on the ord. capital compared with 13.5,
10, 2.5, 5.8, 2.3 and 2.5 p.c. back to 1921.
The year’s final figure was written after
£3500 had been set aside for taxation and
“complete” provision had been made for
depreciation of leasehold, plant, etc., says the
chairman; and a great deal depends upon
that. The leasehold expires in 1963, so there
is just on 36 years in which to lay by enough
out of profits to offset the capital repre-
sented by irremovable property. At Oct. 31
the entire assets were lumped in one entry
at £166,683 compared with a total of £145,463
a year earlier, when leasehold, license and
goodwill figured at cost, £119,667. Against
that there was then a reserve of £13,796
for depreciation of leasehold, license and
goodwill. Last year the provision was
£2887, and if that rate is continued it will
wipe out the £119,667—-provided the figure
remains unaltered —when the lease expires.
Besides amortising the leasehold, the co. has
to provide out of earnings for the renewal
of plant and furnishings, which depreciate
very rapidly in a modern hotel. The visible
provision was only £1605 last year; but
something may have been —probably was—
spent on renewals and charged up to working
exes. A modern hotel is a hungry animal in
this matter; during the year, it is reported,
the board incurred “a fairly large expendi-
ture in remodelling part of the kitchen and
in the erection of a new bar. In addition,
commitments for practically the entire re-
placement of certain of the furnishings and
equipment have been entered into. This
expenditure, although involving very large
sums of money, will considerably improve the
service of the hotel and should result in
improved profits.” The result at October
31 was that £14,212 had been added to the
debt, “bank overdraft, sundry creditors and
loans at call,” making it £54,817. That is
to say, there was 12s. sd. of outside money
at risk in the business for every £1 owned
by shareholders, compared with 9s. 6d. a
year ago.
The habit of lumping assets and liabilities,
each in a single entry, is not one which makes
the “Wild Cat” purr with satisfaction. Cer-
tainly it hides the position from competitors,
but it also means that shareholders and the


NEW COMPANIES.
Are They Good Investments?
This and a hundred other questions
are answered by
The “‘Wild Cat’ Monthly"
BUY IT AND SAVE LOSSES.
December Number Now on Sale.
SINGLE COPY, 2/-; PER ANNUM, 22/6.
Principal Newsagents, or The Bulletin
Otiices, Sydney or Melbourne.
AVe stock -(- GF -|- Malleable Fittings to suit
every requirement, and as there are over 7500
varieties to choose from, we can accommodate any
trade. For water, steam or gas. AVill not split or
crack, and are correct in every detail. Obtainable
ftom William Adams & Co., Ltd., Sole Agents,
Sydney, Newcastle, Melbourne, Brisbane, Adelaide,
Perth.— Advt.
* * * *
The most gallons delivered for the least cost —is
the crucial test to apply to a pressure pipe line.
Pioneer Wood Pipe has a proven carrying capacity
that is initially some 20 p.c. greater than metal
pipe, and this capacity tends to increase rather than
decrease with age. For wood pipe is never affected
by rust nor tuberculation, nor choked by deposits.
The Australian Wood Pipe Co., Ltd , Burns Bay
Road, Lane Cove, N.S.AV. (Ferry to Figtree) ; and
at Footscray, Victoria.- — -Advt.
* * *" *
Patents. —Have you an idea worth patenting?
Griffith & Hassel, Patent Attorney, 77 Castlereagh
Street, Sydney, obtain Commonwealth and foreign
patents.— Advt.
* * * *
IDEAS —Commonwealth and Foreign Patents
obtained. Colj.ison & Co., 483 Collins Street, Mel-
bourne, and Adelaide. Thirty yeais’ practice. Write
us for Inventors’ Guide. — Advt.
* * * *
Insley (U.S.A.) One-man Crawler-type Petrol
or Motor-driven Power Shovel. This one machine
does the work of six. Namely, Shovelling, Ditch-
ing, Skimmer Scooping, Crane work, Dragline, Back-
filler and Magnet. Sole Agents: Arthur Leplastrier
and Co. Pty., Ltd., Sirius House, Macquarie Place,
Sydney; Collins House, Melbourne, 164 Edward
Street, Brisbane; and Morphett Street, Adelaide.
—Advt.
* * * *
A high-class line of Italian Microscopes, known as
the “Koristka,” pronounced by eminent authorities to
be equal to the best German instruments, are now
being offered by Messrs. Felton, Grimwade & Co
Pty,, Ltd.. Melbourne, who have been appointed
sole Australian agents. Inquiries will be promptly
responded to. — Advt.
* 4= * *
Hydraulic Power Electric and Hydraulic Lifts
Limited (incorporated by Act of Parliament,
1888), hydraulic, electric and general engineers, lift
specialists. Maintenance and repairs of all classes of
lifts and other machinery. Mercantile Mutual Build-
ing, 14 Martin Place, Sydney.— Advt.
HULL
Britain’s Third and
Cheapest Port.
The Natural Gateway
to a largo Industrial Area of
12 MILLION PEOPLE.
11 DOCKS
Owned and Served by the
London 8 North-Eastern Railway
MODERN EQUIPMENT,
RAPID HANDLING,
LOW CHARGES.
EXPRESS GOODS TRAINS
to all parts of the country.
Regular Fast Steamship Services to the
Continent of Europe for Re-Export Trade.
AUSTRALIAN SHIPPERS are invited to
inquire for further information at the offices
of Messrs. BURNS, PHILP & CO., LTD.,
7 Bridge Street, Sydney; and Branches.
Agents throughout New Zealand:
J. A. REDPATII & SONS, LTD.
Iv.N.E.R.
Largest Dock-owning Railway
in the World.
Everlasting Never-leak Blow-off Valve
2 YEARS’ GUARANTEE.
NEVER FAILS TO GIVE COMPLETE SATISFACTION.
Reference to innumerable users throughout the Commonwealth.
Made only by—
GUTHRIOGE, LIMITED, Camperdown, Sydney.
Illustrated Catalogue cannot fail to interest you.
Queensland
Insurance Co.
Ltd.
Head Office:
Pitt & Bridge Streets.
Sydney.
The Largest
Australian Company
transacting
Fire, Marine, Personal
Accident and Sickness,
Burglary, Live Stocic,
Public Risk, Boiler Ex-
plosion, Workers’ Com-
pensation, etc., etc.
market have no opportunity of judging the
co.’s real financial position or the quality of
the assets behind the scrip, and that is not
good enough. Paid capital is £80,.000 in
20,000 8 p.c. cum. prefs. and 60,000 ords.
The prefs., which have priority as to capital,
have a net asset backing of £4 Bs. per share
and the year’s net earnings were over 6$
times their annual requirements. The market
values them at par or a shade under. For
the ords.- with a net asset backing of 225.
Bd. per share, mostly in leasehold, goodwill,
etc., 255. is paid. The return at that figure,
after allowing for the final div. (Is.), is
8.3 p.c. as long as the 10 p.c. div. continues.
* * * - *
As the Australian business man cleans
up his desk for the New Year he wonders
harder than usual what the next 12 months
are going to produce. The future, as he
sees it, is very uncertain. Shortly after the
second half of the year opened trading con-
ditions began to grow harder. The banks
tightened up, and accommodation was difficult
to find. Things got worse for three months;
then good rains came in the nick of time to
save the w r heat crops of three States from
the threatened failure, and with a very good
market for wool the money-bags were heid
a little less tight. But those who control
credit in Australia refused to be at all
enthusiastic, and in that they were sup-
ported by the people outside Australia upon
whom we have hitherto leaned so heavily.
Very little has been said about it, of course;
but the Commonwealth Government has been
told plainly that we have been borrowing
far too much and putting the money into
things that return far too little; and that
is the whole explanation of the recent sudden
cry from Canberra to the States and ' the
Commonwealth’s own spending departments
to cut down outgoings. The most serious
feature of the situation is that we have
gradually built up a great army of men
dependent upon loan works, and any sudden
stoppage of supplies will cause widespread
distress and misery. The only possible thing
to do is to replace imported goods by home
manufactures as rapidly as possible in order
to absorb the people who must inevitably
lose their jobs on public works and in public
services: the former must be gradually eased
off; the latter are ridiculously over-manned;
Whether we have yet got into the state of
mind that will make these changes practic-
able is uncertain. One thing is certain: if
the changes are not made gradually there
will come a crash and they will have to be
made suddenly, and that may mean no end
of trouble.
The banks have had the position well in
hand, especially in the latter part of the year,
and credit has been restricted. Especially
have time-payment traders and others who
have encouraged buying on credit found
it hard work to get accommodation. For-
tunately conditions improved so much dur-
ing the last couple of months of the year
that the Christmas trade was much better
than it threatened to be; and very badly-
needed money flowed into many businesses
as stocks were quickly shifted. This will
relieve anxiety regarding many accounts;
but it is not at all likely to make the banks
any more open-handed during the coming
year than they have been in the last few
months. The Australian banker is not a
pessimist, but he knows we have been making
the pace far too hot, have been living far
beyond our means, and he realises that his
big job at present is to bring the community
back to safe ways. If bankers could get the
co-operation of the leaders of the Labor
party, and especially of the labor unions,
their job would be much easier..
Thirty-five years ago, during a miners’
strike, Dick Sleath, the miners’ secretary,
bought a share in the Broken Hill Prop,
and attended a general meeting of the co.
in order to get into the closest touch with the
shareholders. What is badly needed now is
for the unions to get into close touch with,
say, the board of the Commonwealth Bank
—though the board of any other Australian
bank would do just as well. The men’s
leaders ought to know the financial results
of the country’s various policies; they are
blind leaders of the blind if they don’t; yet
they keep at arm’s length from the only
men who can authoritatively tell them what
the results are. No doubt the unions believe
that the banks represent the fat men. They
ought to meet the board, of, say, the Com-
monwealth Bank and discover that the well-
being of a few rich men doesn't mean much
nowadays to any great bank, whoso chief
concern is ■ to secure general prosperity and
avoid violent fluctuations. The outlook for
Australia is uncertain, and in a very little
while may be very serious. It is possible
to avoid a tragedy, but it is not possible to
do it by going along as we have been going
lately. If the tragedy happens, the worst
sufferer will be the wage-earner. Isn’t it
worth the wage-earner’s while to make him-
self informed about the facts? If things
are going right, well and good. The bankers
ought to have information w-hich naturally
the bricklayer hasn’t got. Why not try to
find out? The bankers would certainly be
willing to lay all the material facts on the
table. They might even be willing to be put
to the “third degree.” It would be a fine
thing and a hopeful thing if the experiment
was tried during the coming year.
* * *
The conference at Broken Hill between the
managers and the unions on wages and con-
ditions to operate from the New Year brought
no surprises, and there is no need for the
“Wild Cat” to alter its forecast of a few
weeks ago that working conditions will re-
main as under the old agreement. The slight
increase of hours and the reduction of lOd. a
shift asked for by the managers was only
a plain intimation to the unions that nothing-
more than they had now could be expected,
and the counter-claim of the unions for de-
creased hours and increased pay was only a
diplomatic way of saying that they were not
prepared to give away anything they had.
The request of the managers for a month's
adjournment, work to be resumed in the
New Year under existing conditions, was
taken, and could only be taken, as a straight-
out intimation that the cos. are content with
things as they are. and the unions, in face
of present conditions, realise the futility of
attempting a fight for more. While the bark-
ing of both sides as revealed in the press
might alarm some investors, no one on the
field itself is worrying about the future
industrially, although there is anxiety con-
cerning the water supply. There will be
trouble in that direction if heavy rain does
not fall within the next two months; and
summer falls on the Barrier are erratic and
uncertain.
* * * *
Queensland, on account of its outstand-
ing evidence of oil deposits, should have an
extra-good chance of securing a fair quota
of the experimental work to be carried out
in Australia by the English geophysical pros-
pecting experts. Highly successful results
have been obtained with petroleum deposits
in Hungary, Roumania, Texas and elsewhere,
and under suitable conditions oil is one of
the things which can be most successfully
located, particularly by the Eotvos torsion
balance. The question of the fields of in-
vestigation to be undertaken in Australia
will be thrashed out at Hobart in January
at a conclave to be attended by representa-
tives of mining and scientific bodies from
all over the continent. The doyen of Aus-
tralian geologists, Professor David, is to be
present.
* * * *
Randolph Bedford: Builders, Ltd. (B.
15/12/’27) is to “exercise a certain con-
trol” over a number of areas around Roma ;
and if each -has the statutory 20,000 acres
and Builders, Ltd., exercises control over
them, then it is outside the law. It is a
very good law, too; the impossible restriction
of promoters and vendors to 7| p.c. (by
Cabinet resolution), which will either
provoke subterfuge or restrict prospecting,
doesn’t make it a bad one. Roma calls for
not one or two philanthropic cos. with half
an eye on their “national duty” and the other
half on the Commonwealth subsidy, but for
50 or 100 cos. trying to bring wells in.
* s>: *
“Kobbi”: Since the Roma oil stir the
country correspondent has been having the
time of liis life describing likely petrol sites
in his particular domain. The latest is
Saxby Downs, near Hughenden (Q.), the
property of Greenwood, of Gloaming fame.
Some 23 miles from the homestead a mud
spring has been reported which a few years
ago “was set on fire by lightning and which
burned for some months with a blue flame.”
A southern prospector, E. H. White, of
Melbourne, has had a look at it, and 10,000
acres have been applied for on the Pialla
boundary. Melbourne money is being coaxed
to lend a hand in investigating it.
* * * *
Oriomo Oil’s field party, which left Sydney
in April last led by Captain S. W. McLean,
has established itself in the Papuan jungle
and the boring plants are hard at it. A
depth of over 400 ft. with the 7000 ft. plant
—l2in. bore —and nearly 600 ft. with the
3000 ft. plant was recently reported. Also a
lot of survey and topographical work has
been done.
$ $ $ $
Westralia Mt. Morgans (W.A.) will
shortly give up. Years ago it produced over
£1,500,000, and paid nearly half that amount
in divs. Then the shoot went wrong and
one of the greatest gold producers in the
West became one of the small and poor ones.
A local syndicate has worked it in a hand-
to-mouth way for some years past.
sic ' * * *
Westralia is trying to calculate how much
wealth and prosperity Zampi Sound iron
deposits are going to bring to it if the Japs
buy the ore in large quantities. Optimists
reckon that if 500.000 tons of ore were
shipped every year from the Sound it would
take 200 years to work the deposits down
to sea level. Geographically, Yampi—it lies
100 miles north of Derby—is not well
situated for the supply of ore to Australian
smelters, but for oversea shipment of raw
ore it is in an admirable position, and its ore
is of higher average grade than that of most
other known big deposits.
* * *
Working parties of miners still potter
about some of the old mines on the North-
Eastern Westralian goldfields, where the
shoots are too short and values too irregular
to suit big companies. Small crushings are
being won, and that looks to be their limit.
* * ’ * *
About the year 1913 Mooleyalla and
Cooglegong (W.A.) presented vigorous
scenes. Hundreds of abos. (female sex)
plied their yandies, whilst their men fren-
ziedly bartered the tin for buggies, sulkies,
or any conceivable contraption the Nor-
West could offer to meet Binghi’s sudden
demands for wheeled vehicles. Being residual
and practically in situ, the cassiterite was
easily located and quickly exploited. To-day
little but the memories of former glories
remain. A few emaciated and attenuated
niggers of both sexes scratch out a pre-
carious existence. Derelict vehicles offend
the eye by the dozen, marking the exact
spot of their failure to function. The
locusts have been and left nothing but
devastation. One optimist has inveigled a
Melbourne and Adelaide syndicate to operate
with small puddling plants. It will collect
experience even if it gets little tin. The
Paget Syndicate, a London concern, has
acquired the balance of the surrounding
earth; but soil is rather at a discount in
W.A. at present unless it will grow wheat.
* * *
Nemesis is on the heels of a number of
Westralian gold-mining cos. which hold
leases without working them. Bitter com-
plaints about them have lately reached the
Mines Department, and replies have been
sent that further exemption will not be
granted. North Kalgurli is one of the
offenders.
* * * *
Riverside tin mine, close to the South
Esk River, near Avoca (Tas.), is making a
stout struggle towards success. It is a pro-
mising little alluvial proposition with good
values running through drift deposits some
6 to 8 feet deep, and a nice plant has been
placed on it to pump water from the South
Esk for nozzle work. This class of work
is costly, and in addition portions of the
drift are cemented, which means more
trouble and expense. Not a soft proposition,
but too good to be left for future generations.
* * * *
The Rainbow mine, Herberton, has crushed
53 tons 12cwt. for 6 tons 9cwt. tin con-
centrates which have been sold for £986. This
represents the total production since the
previous crushing' in September last which
yielded over £lOOO. The owners deserve
luck, for they worked and backed this mine
for a couple of years without results.
* '# * *
Malayan tin returns for the first half of
December show that amongst the Pratten
propositions Rawang’s bucket dredge re-
turned 20 tons, taken from 59,000 yards,
averaging .761 b. The November recovery
was 25 tons from 110,000 yards, average
.511 b. Malim Nawar also bucked up a
trifle, bagging 12 tons from 52,000 yards,
average .571 b., as against 20 tons from
105,000 yards in November, when the aver-
age was .421 b. Malim Nawar South lost
132 hours : for quarterly boiler inspection
and overhaul; turnover was 25,000 yards for
6 tons, average .531 b., as against the full
November return of ,541 b. Kundang’s 10
tons from 50,000 yards shows only slight
improvement, the average being .451 b., as
opposed to the previous month’s ,411 b., when
24 tons came from a turnover of 131,000
yards. Kuala Ivampar slumped heavily,
recovering only 10 tons from 89,000 yards,
while in November 35 tons was won from
180,000 yards; average .441 b., as against
,251 b. for the December forthright. Tan-
jong Tualong improved with 20 tons from
75,000 yards, following on November’s figures
of 30 tons from 125,000 yards; the latest
average was .591 b., and November’s ,531 b.
Jelapang took the slippery slide with a re-
turn of 8 tons from 41,000 yards, an average
of less than ,441 b. In November the return
was .631 b.; 57,000 yards being turned over
for a recovery of 16 tons. The big Larut
outfit took 38 tons from 162,000 yards; or
over .521 b. to the yard. The November
turnover was 348,000, and 77 tons were
recovered, average .491 b.
* * * *
Sumatra Tin Concessions are removing to
the F.M.S. Directors Holden, Gosse and
Cowell have resigned and the Adelaide office
is being discontinued. T. D. Ensor, of Kuala
Lumpur, is the sole disposer of the remain-
ing funds, which while they last will be used
to prospect the F.M.S. and Siam in the
pious hope of finding a property that will
retrieve the position. E. M. De Vila, who
was engaged by the Adelaide board as geolo-
gist, left for the North early in December.
* * * *
Deebook, one of the Miles-Palfreymau
group, is now a holding concern. It origin-
ally ran two dredges at Renong, West Siam,
but when its ground was worked out it
sold one dredge to Taiping and the other to
Ronpibon Extended for half the 30,000 .£1
shares in that co. These shares stand in
the vendor’s books at £24,450, the cost of the
dredge, and they brought in £lOOO in divs.
for the year, to May 31 last. This and £206
in interest cost no less than £1263 to collect.
Why it was necessary in this case to have
one office in Melbourne (£701), another in
Siam (£258) and a third in London (£3041
should have been explained to shareholders.
The Extended co.’s dredge, which stopped
in November, 1926, recommenced digging in
June last, but is still eating its way through
tailings and recovering barely sufficient to
meet cash expenditures. It is expected to
reach the area recently taken over from Ron-
pibon early in the new year. The only
information given regarding this property is
that there appears to be three years’ work
ahead.
* * * *
Bidor Tin, promoted in Melbourne in Sep-
tember last year by Tin Options, Ltd., with
an authorised capital of £150,000, announces
that the option over its leases in the F.M.S.
has been extended to Jan. 31, when £5OOO
is payable. An additional £5OOO may be paid
for a further extension of two months, and
both sums are deductable from the purchase
price of £50,000, payable in cash by May 31
next if the option is exercised. The co.’s
820-acre area was estimated to contain
36,000,000 yards of good dredging ground, of
which a selected 560 acres was expected to
go B|oz., the average depth being 40ft. Bidor
district has a good deal of amang, a mineral
matter lighter than tin and consisting of
oxides of iron, corundum, wolframite, mona-
zite and other substances; and other plants
in the district have failed to win the expected
results. Bidor values are pretty low, too.


T
he first puff convinces you
of the superior quality of
m 6
iOf
OX
Army Club
CIGARETTES
20
for
1/6
In pure ribbed watermarked rice paper .
CAVANDERS Ltd., London (Est. 1775), Pioneers of Hygienic Cigarette Packing.
f
'Urn few,'
H*
m
CORK TIPPED
or PLAIN
SMOKE-OH!
Giving a wife all your wages is a great
investment. It means a return of perhaps 10
per cent.
* *
One thing about the motor-hog—he never
tries to get round you.
It was stated during the debate on the
Vic. Totalisator Bill that many a well-
dressed woman who frequents racecourses
has no visible means of support. This is
hardly accurate. The fact is that he is pro-
bably too shabby to put in an appearance.
The early bird catches it warm, especially
if he rolls home at 3 a.m.
❖ *
Doctor or layman, he’s a lucky married
man who knows how to cure his scold.
Poultry-farming may show good profits,
but it has its drawbacks, as we find out when
We wake up to them.
When a woman denounces her husband
as a renegade, it is often because she does
not think he should be shot at dawn.
sH &
A man named Gayley, who called himself
a musician, was fined in London for playing
his French horn below a window after being
told to go away. Gayley, the troubadour!
HER INDISPENSABLE DIGIT.
WEFE: “Fancy a woman getting two thousand damages for the
loss of a thumb. It seems excessive.”
HENPECK: “But perhaps it was the one she kept her husband
under.”
At any rate the Australian flapper shows
what she’s made of.
* *
An English clergyman has asserted his
belief that dogs will go to Heaven. Skye
terriers?
I met her in the busy street.
Her face was full of charm.
I would have stopped and made a meet....
But wifey had my arm.
N.s.w. H. F.
The serpent tempted Eve to eat, and yet
the modern dyspeptic never thinks of having
one of these reptiles on the table.
“Many so-called theatrical stars brought
to Australia are less than mediocrities in
their own countries.”
Twinkle, twinkle, little star,
Now we know just what you are.
You are duds from other climes
Here to gather in our dimes.
N.s.w. D. McM.
* *
The misogynist quotes it this way: “Life
is mostly betroth and trouble.”
There’s no excuse nowadays for the fel-
low Who doesn’t see a good deal of his girl.
There is only one person who can do you
more harm than the woman who hates yon
—and that is the woman w r ho loves you
In a recent case complainant
said that defendant had repre-
sented that the milk-run he was
selling was worth £l5 per week
net, and on that representation
he paid £275 for it. He found,
however, that it was impossible
to make money, and claimed
that he had been taken down.
Still, he got a run for Ins
money.
An English writer says that
the Jews are the keenest of all living people.
They certainly take a lot of interest in life.
S. E. Lamb, K.C., who prosecuted on
behalf of the Crown at the Blue Mountain
murder trial, once appeared for the co-re-
spondent in the
days when the
N.S.W. Divorce
Court was presided
over by stately G.
B. Simpson. A
feature of the case
was that the phii-
andering was
alleged to have
taken place in
broad daylight by
the roadside in a
Sydney suburb.
1 jamb’s case w r as
the wild impro-
bability of the
thing. “Was it not
the worst place in
the locality the
couple could have
chosen ?” “I would
not say that,” ulti-
mately answered
the witness. Lamb
persisted. Forced
into a reply, wit-
ness turned to-
wards the Bench.
“In answer to Mr.
Lamb’s question,
your Honor,” he
said, “I will go as
far as this; it was
certainly not the
sort of place that you or I would have
chosen.”
Peter has a sunny smile;
Fairbank’s features are complete;
Johnny’s got a bungalow;
Alan’s manner’s rather sweet;
Bobbie in his summer tweeds
Smartest of the bunch by far.
But Clarence? Clarence holds my heart —
Clarence has a dinky car!
n.s.w. D. Glasson.
*
The poor should never mingle with the
rich. . It is too expensive for the rich—
they have to show off so much.
Long before she is a widow, many a
woman sheds tears for her late husband.
* -f
You can tell the fast young man by the
slow pace he makes to the altar.
When Australia has to play its cards for
a future war it will be handy to have a
few aces in the pack.
“Waiwera” : Last week a picturesque swag-
man passed through our Vic. village, mak-
ing north. He was ragged and his dilapi-
dated boots were laced with red tape. Of
course we knew at once he was going to
Canberra.
A KNIGHT ON WHEELS.
“Can’t keep my appointment with Gladys
to-night. Will you, old boy?”
“Howsat?”
“Well, I don’t want to give her Betty’s
cold.”
There’s nothing very original about modern
dress. It seems to be mainly a take-off.
A few years back a suitor would kneel
and kiss the hem of her dress. Now he can
do it standing up.
The woman who is all angles can console
herself by reflecting that in the next life
the fat will be in the fire.
CASUAL CLASSICS.
Ad nauseam.—Bad publicity.
Anno mundi. —Washing day.
Au mieux.—Our cat.
Entente cordiale.—Teetotalism.
Falsus in uno, falsus in omnibus. —If we
are false in a one-cylinder car we are false
in a ’bus.
Fide et amore.—Let the dog have another
dinner.
Hors de propos.—Picking a winner.
Lever de rideau.—Changing gears.
Locus standi.—Tram passenger.
Some of the fruit we get off the barrows
is not half bad.
* *
It is rude to allude to a man’s wife as his
debtor half.
When the rent collector calls, he often
finds the tenant waiting for him on the
sidestep.
* *
Surrounded by pretty girls a fellow feels
that even the octopus has its advantages.
• s’<
The man who has tea in bed likes his
wife’s get-up.
* *
Radio is a wonderful thing. Look how
many people can pronounce Schenectady
now.
* *
A letter writer in the Sun says that every
man should raise his hat to show esteem
for a woman. Of course. Even in the kit-
chen the old pot lifts ’is lid to show ’is
steam.
Mary had a little lamb;
Its fleece was white as snow,
They say. But what its color was
I really do not know.
I only know that Mary said:
“Gee, I have got a thirst.
The lamb and sauce can wait a bit—
Let’s have a cocktail first.”
QUEENSLAND. N. S.
An overseas traveller says Melbourne is
a more sober city than Sydney. Still more
people seem to get shot there.
* *
Witness in North Melbourne Court: “I
wanted them to fight it out like ladies, but
Mrs. Walters ran away from my wife.”
Evidently wanted to get a good start from
scratch.
FATHER’S VIEWPOINT.
Before.
The riot of mad noises,
Gifts, rich foods, cakes and wine,
Swells to its happy zenith,
With all things going fine. *
But father they begnulg* him
His rather frequent pot;
He ought to get his pleasure
In paying for the lot!
After.
Toys broken, gifts forgotten,
The feast is but bare bones;
The horn of mirth now falters,
In cracked and dismal tones.
Whilst through his costly headache
The thought of spent cash reels ;
Next Christmas in the workhouse
Is how poor father feels.
N.S.W.
PERCY PAWNTICKET.
A STONE-AGE CABARET.
“Excavations in Yucatan are alleged to
reveal instruments resembling saxophones
made from the tusks of mastodons.”
Did the Neanderthal chappie
Do the shuffle, keeping happy,
In his Stone Age with his orchestra of
bone?
Did he ’way back do his prancing
With his club, his old-time dancing,
To the strains from out an ivory saxo-
phone ?
Did the Paleolithic fellow
Love that Bone Band's blaring bellow?
Did its music that old-timer sheik
entrance?
Did the handsome skin-clad Master
Of the Revels move ’em faster—
And serve Rock-cakes when they reached
the Supper Dance?
N.S.W.
PENMAN
LET’S SEE!
“The smart woman of 1928 will wear hose,
bloomers and brassieres to match. If the
dress is of transparent material, she will
add a slip.”
According to rumors,
The new season’s bloomei’s
With stockings and brassieres will tone.
But the cobwebby dresses.
A girl friend confesses,
Will in color be all on their own.
The curate will murmur:
“We’ll have to be firmer,
And keep a sharp eye on the misses,
What with —er—bloomers and stocking,
And openwork. .. . Shocking !
We’ll have to find out just what this is.”
N.s.w.
NORMAN CONQUEST.
BACK STALLS.
“....I told Mavis I’d chain ’er up if she
didn’ stop gaddin’ about. She went to see
Xormer Talamidge in ‘Cameel’ er Saturdee,
a thing I forbid ’er to do. I saw it. A
letter fast wiramen drinkin’ champagne, an
all. No good for kids to see. But Mavis
thought it was slow. Don’t know what girls
is coinin’ to these days, what with their
shameless skirts, an’ bobbed ’air, an’ all. i
says to ’er father, I says”....
“. .. . What’s that thing they’re playin’, my
dear? Ta-ta-te-dum-te-dum-te-de. Catchy,
isn’t it? O-o-oli! Look! There’s that John-
son girl with”....
“... . And I told the foreman straight. I
says ‘lf you want the sewer down-pipe there
you’ll have to get some other bloke t 0”....
“....Three and threepence three-farthings
at Mcllordern’s, dear. Beige or biscuit”....
“Lolls-’r-chawklets !’
“... . But Mavis simply left ’ome in a ’uff.
She up an’ much as tole me that I was too
untolerant, an’ I says to ’er ‘Now, look ’ere,
me lady”....
“.... I thought she was wmn-der-ful in
that! They say she really divorced him
because she found out he was”....
“Ice-crim Blawks !”
“... .And when I tells the contractor about
it, he says that if he has any more hanky-
panky from the foreman he’11”....
“... . Who says I’m in the wrong seat ?
I paid my money as well as you did ! It’s
the usher what made the mistake, not me!
I paid my money as well a 5”....
“... . O-o-oli! Look at that simply priceless
hat, my dear! Do you know, I had a Bali-
buntal-straw last season with the dinkiest
bit of green ribbon caught over at the side
that”....
.An’ when he offered me six-t’-four I
looked him in the eye, an’ I said ‘No bloomin’
wonder the tin ’ares are takin’ all ya busi-
ness ! Six-t’-four for that. I says. So he
ups an’”....
“.... ’ls father wanted to put ’im to the
dentistry, but that wasn’t good enough for
me noble. No. What ’e wanted was to be
a stooard ah’ see the world. Fat lotter good
ONLY ENCOURAGES HIM.
MAUD: “Jack seems to think he can do as
he likes.”
MURIEL: “Why don’t you sit on him a bit?”
MAUD: “I do. But it only seems to make
him more confident.”
seein’ the world’ll do ’im w’en ’e grows up,
if ya”
“... . ‘The Indian Love Lyrics,’ my dear.
They say she poisoned herself, or shot her-
self, or something. Silly, wasn’t it? But I
always feel there’s something about art,
something not quite”....
“....‘lt won’t flush! I says. ‘And why
won’t it flush? Yer dunno? Well, I’ll tell
yer why,’ I says”,. ...
“Eskim-o Pie!”
‘‘Sli-sh-sh-sh-shhh !”
“ ’Ats off in front!”
THE IMMATURE MALE.


Every Tyre has just
so many miles in it/
■ft* m
\ n
! \
rv\
c
m
0
0
Barnet Glass
Rubber Company
Limited
We have so built
Barnet Glass Tyres
that no other tyre
in the World can
ouHive them -
Miles.... Miles.... Miles
With fewer mishaps;
less trouble and much
greater comfort.
That’s what travelling
on Barnet Glass means.
BARNET G 1 ASS TYRES


NATIONAL HOTEL,
BRISBANE.
Charges are for Room Only. European Plan.
Dining Service a la Carte
STRICTLY FIRST CLASS.
TARIFF:
Write for Descriptive Folder.
Ifiill
HI •
Ll - ..
i
Address Manager—
ROWES, LTD.,
Cafe and Hotel Proprietors,
BRISBANE.
Ricß! Fruity/*
From an old English recipe,
perfected by 60 years of Aus-
tralian experience, Swallow
and Ariell's Plum Puddings are
made. Their richness, fruiti-
ness and delicious flavor have
made them first favorite in
Australian homes for over half
a century.
ASK YOUR GROCER.
kĵk;kj;kl'l
SlOcMm&rGMeliif
DELICIOUS
PLUM PUDDINGS
'WhereverT/cni 7racb> jSuyAistralianJtnLcLe "
llv Hw bert- people
(jo to [!» BAif HAGH
The most luxurious hotel in the
Southern Hemisphere is the country
home of the n'cest people.
Management —G. M. Lievain, Robertson
Inclusive Tariff, _£l/l/* P er day
j£6/6/- per week
Sydney Booking Office : 84 Pit [
Phone : B 6491
Melbourne
Chatter
Buckley's
Elizabethan
Tea Rooms
F[?] Contral 800for P[?]
Buckley e-Nunn, Lrimited.
So[?] so M[?]
The heat of Christmas Eve was made
hearable at Moonee Valley racecourse by
shady trees that offered shelter from sun and
wind. The attendance was not as large as
usual, but it is believed that the consump-
tion of liquid refreshments beat all previous
records. Most of our very best people being-
out of town the dress parade was not very
impressive.. The lightest of silks and Tuscan
or crin. millinery were the rule. General
Chauvei’s youthful-looking lady defied the
heat in a sports frock of white silk with
a large hat. Rear-Admiral and Mrs. Napier,
Mrs. Ben Lempriere and the Lauchlan Mac-
kinnons were on the lawn.
The Austral Salon ended its year with a
Christmas party stage-managed by the presi-
dent, Mrs. Thomas Baker, and her sister,
Eleanor Shaw. Brigadier-General Elliott
gave a talk about the aims and objects of
the Pendulum Club, which does its best to
promote the purchase of Empire-produced
goods. Mrs. Baker, whose black gown, re-
lieved by beige georgette, was topped by a
rose-trimmed black hat, handed gifts to two
of the Salon’s most valiant workers, Alice
Richardson and E. Billinghurst, and to those
who provided the afternoon’s musical and
dramatic entertainment. Hon. sec. Mrs.
May Quinnell received a cheque, and lion,
treas. Mrs. E. Galway was also rewarded.
The Christmas jollo of the R.V.1.8. was
a bright and vigorous affair, with sports of
all kinds for the sightless. They even played
cricket with a belled ball that tinkled its
location to the young Ponsfords. , A merry-
go-round gave joy, and there was dancing
and calisthenics. Prizes for school studies
were placed in the proud winners’ hands by
Mayoress Morell. Santa Claus arrived m
state in a motor-car bearing a gift-laden
tree, and there were presents all round, fol-
lowed by a feast spread in the dining-liall.
Besides Mayor Morell and his lady, presi-
dent Carnegie and his wife, vice-president
Angus, Superintendent Hedger, matron
Briggs and other interested folk watched
the fun.
Masses of gladioli and feathery fern lent
a festive air to the apartments of Mayoress
Morell at the Town Hall on Thursday after-
noon when the aldermen and councillors and
their women-folk were invited to take tea
in honor of Mrs, David Bell. For 19 years
Mrs. Bell has been a great worker for all
charitable and social movements initiated at
the Town Hall. Her husband’s appointment
as chairman - of the Metropolitan Board of
Works severs her connection with the City
Council. The Mayoress, whose gown of
coffee-brown shade bore silk lace of a paler
tone, included in the farewell Mrs. H. E.
Morton, whose husband, our City Engineer,
has been lured to the Harbor City. Sheila
Morell, in a sappliire-blue frock diversified
with old rose, assisted in entertaining her
mother’s guests. Rene Bartley, wearing
mist-blue geoi’gette and silver lace, gave songs
at the piano and some recitations.
Lady Somers, like Lady Stradbroke, takes
an interest in the City Newsboys’ Club, and
came from Macedon the other night with
Lady Agar to take part in the club’s Christ-
mas jollo and hand over prizes. The club
runs classes in carpentry and other trades
and physical culture, also a Sunday-school,
and progress in these during the year was
rewarded. Edith Onians, lion, sec., who is
deeply in the confidence of the members and
their parents, permits the boys to selocr
their own presents. One boy’s selection was
a pudding-steamer for his mother. Miss
Onians saw that the utensil was provided,
and added a covete 1 book on mechanics, sine
the lad’s ambition runs to being an engineer.
Two other volumes were sent along by a
bookseller who heard the little story. A
prize for thrift came the way of Terry
O’Brien, who had banked £9. Carols were
sung most creditably by a picked nine. The
happy night began with a feast, to which
300 lads brought prodigious appetites.
As on previous occasions Mrs. Barry
Thomson was stage manager of the Christ-
mas celebration for the small patients of
Alfred Hospital last week. The Michaelis
ward was a glow of deep blue and gold in
flowers, draperies and balloons, bright set-
ting for a heavily-laden Christmas tree.
Bookmaker Wally Mitchell wore the ziffs
and robe of Santa Claus, and was as wel-
come to the children as to the backers of a
winning favorite at Flemington or Caulfield.
There was high tea for adult patients and
the. nursing staff.
Dame Nellie Melba was called upon to
play a hitherto unattempted role on Friday,
that of Santa Claus, but it was not a cos-
tume part. She distributed Christmas pre-
sents among the patients at the Queen
Victoria Memorial Hospital. Mrs. Norman
Brookes, president of the hospital, accom-
panied the diva round the wards, which were
adorned with flowers and balloons. The com-
mittee of the hospital, some of the medical
staff and Mayoress Morell sipped tea with
Melba afterwards.
Bernard Ileinze made Handel’s “Messiah”
a very dull affair at the Town Hall one
night last week, principally because he took
the tempo much slower than is usual. Tenor
Joseph Hislop was manifestly uncomfortable,
but basso Oliver King, of Sydney, was more
adaptable; and scored heavily in “Why Do
the Nations Ilage?” Madame Ella Kingston,
the soprano soloist, did her best to cheer
matters up with a frock of deep coral hue,
aided by contralto Victoria Anderson, who
was clothed in taffeta in blends of rose-pink
and delphinium-blue. Several disputes over
seats enlivened the first part of the evening,
and during the first half of the oratorio diver-
sion was provided by the futile attempts
of side-galleryites to shelter themselves from
a gale of cooling air that soughed through
the ventilators. In response to piteous
appeals the draught was turned off at half-
time. In the front row was the Governor-
General with his guests Lord and .Lady Grim-
thorpe, the latter in jade-blue. Miss Gillett.
Miss Chamberlain, sundry aides, Robert
Best, Aaron Danks and James Barrett, with
their ladies, and Robert Ivnox were also in
the v.-r. party.
There is a strong jazz element in “Queen
High,” the musical comedy which started its
run at the Theatre Royal on Christmas Eve.
The principal characters are partners, a la
Potash and I’erlmutter, and as they are
garter manufacturers those intriguing articles
of attire are given a lot of prominence. The
ladies of the chorus displayed some gorgeous
samples beneath skirts of white silk fringe.
Byrl Walkley's white silk frock, with its
furnishings of red, and hat to match, was
merely garnishing for a garter "with a dia-
mond buckle. The evening-gowns of the third
act have a family resemblance to those of the
ballet—skirts of tulle or georgette much
flounced and tight bodices. Irene North, the
dark-haired leading-lady, wears this mode in
delpliinium-blue. Byrl Walkley’s good looks
are set off by rose-pink linked to a corsage of
silver, and Jessamine Neweombe provides con-
trast in almond-green georgette over gold and
green tissue. Frocks of faint pink taffeta,
with rose-wreathed coiffures, reveal the curves
of one bevy of pirouetters. Prudence Van-
brugh. in a gown of peacock-blue velvet, and
Mrs. Harley Styles, whose attire was a regu-
lar coat-of-mail of gold, splashed with red
rose, enlivened the stalls. Mrs. H. H. Smith
was near by and Mrs. Fred Krcrouse was
accompanied by a Tasmanian visitor whose
head-dress of brilliants lent further cheer to
the front rows. General. Monash, Miss Bent-
witch, the Mackey lady, the John Tails,
Nellie Veitch, Beryl Ainslie, Mrs. Douglas
Stewart and the W„ E. Bates couple were
well in the forefront.
This attractive aspirant for stage honors
is Myrle Roberts, a society recruit. On the
maternal side there are four generations of
A u str a 1 ian s
behind h e r.
She is a great-
grandaug liter
of Polic.j-
Magistrate
M o rpli y, of
Beechw o r t h,
and her aunt,
a Morphy girl,
caught the
heart of Ivo
Bligh, and is
now Dowager
Countess of
D a r n 1 e y.
Myrle’s father,
Malc o 1 m
Roberts, was
in the London
branch of the
I’. and O.
Company. His
daughter, who
inherited hi s
brilliant’ red hair, was a student at Clyde
and afterwards at Wimbledon. Her stage
experience began with the late Emclie Polini,
and she is now with one of the Carrolls’
touring shows. Ruskin made the picture.
Fairies of every rainbow hue, pii'ates most
beautifully got up in red-and-white satin, and
poor fisher folk whose clothes measure up to
the most exacting standards of musical
comedy, disport themselves in “Robinson
Crusoe,” the Christmas panto, at the Prin-
cess. Mab Howarth, principal boy, gradu-
ates, as Robinson Crusoe, from the pictur-
esque shreds and patches of the just-ship-
wrecked to the satins and velvets of improved
circumstances; and Gertie Cremer, as Cnt
soe’s sweetheart Polly, roams the desert isle
in panniered frocks of flowered silk oi
sweet confections of muslin, the tairy
queen, Violet Lester, has a striking white-
feathered headpiece above a robe all silver.
Transformation scenes include one featuring
fans of all periods and nations: and there
are, of course, ballets innumerable.
“The Alarm Clock” was the Christmas
Eve offering at the Athenaeum. The pretty
little comedy ought to have a good run. the
dressing is attractive. Kerry Kelly, who
sports a fair wig in the role of a popular
chorus lass, wears a wine-colored frock with
a regular avalanche of fringe and same-col-
ored hat on her first entrance, and Henri-
etta Cavendish looks smart in a confection
of black satin and leaf-green. Pretty little
Molly Raynor sports a pink taffeta evening
gown and'a reseda-green organdie frock with
a drooping crinoline straw hat to match.
Beige and fawn shades are effectively worn
by Pressy Preston.
Here is Prof. Kenneth H. Bailey, whose
appointment to the Chair of Jurisprudence
at our Uni., vacated by Prof. Harrison
Moore, h a s
pleased all
good Austra-
lians. The son
of one of the
inspectors o f
the Common-
wealth Bank,
young Bailey’s
quest for a
degree at the
local shop was
interrupted by
the Big Scrap.
Having seen
that through
he went back
to his studies,
and made a
name as an
athlete at the
same time. A
Rhodes Schol-
arship sent
him to Oxford,
where he distinguished himself in Law and
athletics, and tacked M.A. and B.C.L. to
his name. In 1924 he was called to the Bar
at Grey’s Inn, and just afterwards Queens
College, the Methodist wing of our Uni.,
needing a vice-master, offered him the post,
which he accepted. As a law-lecturer he is
much looked up to, and has been honored
by an invitation to contribute a chapter to
the Cambridge Uni. Press’s production “The
Constitution of the British Empire.’’ Two
years ago he married an English bride.
At the Palace on Christmas Eve a crop of
“Apples and Pairs” was produced by Stuart
O’Brian. The farce-comedy provides oppor-
tunities for some smart dressing not con-
fined to the ladies of the cast. Brett Randall,
disguised as a bride, wears a most splendid
evening gown of green and gold, surmounted
by a dazzling tiara.
The old girls of the P.L.C. are busying
themselves with the furnishing of their new
club rooms in the National Bank Buildings.
The Dramatic Circle helped on the side of
ways and means by a two-nights’ performance
of a bill that included Barrie’s “Twelve
Pound Look,” in which Wyn Shappere, as
Lady Sims, wore trained raiment of blue
georgette with embossing of silver. “When
Did They Meet Again ?” another bright
offering, was well acted, and A. A. Milne s
“Man in the Bowler Hat” wound up the
evening pleasantly.
The Theatre Association’s performance of
“A Full House,” at the Palace, in
aid of the city’s destitute, was adequately
staged, and some of the dresses were very
attractive. Maisie Bennett’s evening-gown
of sparkling blue brocade linked to chiffon
of a deeper hue caught the eye ; so did the
black-lace gown that showed glimpses of
rainbow hue worn by Dorothy Sykes. Alexia
Anderson’s nicest raiment was of blue
georgette; and Madame Marguerite Cocker-
ton’s prettiest frock, a blend of plaid and
reseda-green georgette, was decidedly chic.
The high altar of St. Pat.’s had adorn-
ment of white blossoms and gold candle-
sticks for the marriage of Dr. Arthur
Joyce, of this city, and Irene Peppard on
Thursday. The bride, only daughter of the
P. T. Peppards, of Kew, wore a gold-
embroidered girdle round a white-satin robe,
long of sleeve and lengthy of skirt, over
which fell white tulle that sufficed both as
veil and train. The only ’maid, Kathleen
O’Shaughnessy, in a primrose-colored frock
and harmonising millinery, carried a sheaf
of delphiniums.
Looking like a stray cloud at sunset, Merle
Stilwell approached the altar of St. Joseph’s,
Bendigo, to keep her tryst with Victor E.
Harland. Billows of pink tulle floated over
the pink wedding gown sewn with pearls and
a narrow train covered yards of aisle. The
’maids. Iris Chambers and Myrtle Farmer,
wore poke bonnets of an old-time mode, and
their taffeta frocks of lotus blue had full
skirts.
Colonel Lavarack, who has been appointed
to the command of a cavalry regiment in
the Old Dart, is a Queenslander, following
in his father's footsteps. His dad had a
military job in Brisbane, and there brought
up his large brood, most of whom settled on
the land. The eldest girl, Muriel, graduated
in Medicine at Melbourne Uni., but gave up
what promised to be a brilliant career in
favor of marriage and a selection. Colonel
Lavarack, after a fine war record, continued
soldiering at Queenscliffe, and acquired a
nice wife and family. The two elder
children will remain at school here under
the care of their aunt. Only the youngest
goes to Blighty.
Dr. J. C. Eccles, son of the W. J. Eccles
couple of Ivew, who was Melbourne’s Uni.’s
Rhodes Scholar two years ago, is making a
name for himself at Oxford. Some time ago
he won a Christopher Welch scholarship
which entitled him to continue his studies
at the ancient Uni. for four years, and
word was received lately that he had appro-
priated the Gotcli Scholarship, which enables
him to undertake research work for three
years in physiology at Exeter College.
Commander R. V. Barton, who has been
lent to the Signal School at Flinders naval
base for a couple of years, has pleasant
recollections of Australia, for here he found
his wife. She was Lady Mary Campbell,
daughter of the late Marquis of Breadalbane,
and her brother, the present peer, owns a
considerable slice of Scotland. Mrs. Barton
and their daughter Sheila accompany the
commander.
Mrs. H. McL. Duigan has returned to her
colonel and her Toorak home an experienced
traveller, with a fine collection of adventure
stories. She set. out last May with her
brother Denis and his wife to explore Africa,
and a fall into crocodile-infested waters and
a bout of malaria were incidents of the
journey. On arrival home Cynthia, the
Duigans’ eldest girl, had a glittering en-
gagement token to show her mother, and the
man of her choice, Erik Breton Wishau, of
Surrey, England, was presented for approval.
Neville Howse is playing host to an old
pal from oversea, Dr. Lewis Smith. Their
acquaintance dates from the days when they
were house surgeons together at the London
Hospital in days of long ago. Dr. Smith
and his wife are on a holiday tour that will
take in the Speck, Maoriland and British
Columbia.
Vaughan Marshall has not lost his faith
in the future of home-made films. Pie is
starting a new venture with Zillali Bate-
man in a leading role —the lady had experi-
ence of acting for the flickers in England.
W. E. Plubble, an official of the Burmali
Oil Co., has brought his Australian wife
home for a holiday. She is a daughter of
City Councillor Kane, and since her marriage
has made her home in South-Eastern Asia.
Welcomes and entertainments must be
packed inside a month, which is the time-
limit of the vacation.
Geelong is sorry to have to part with the
E. A. Alsops. They are going to London,
where he will open a branch of the Aus-
tralian forestry concern with which he is
connected.
Dr. Haden Guest, the vigorous Imperialist
who resigned- from the British Parliamentary
Labor party because it was too insular, has
been in the city for the last few days. He
has been looking into many things; but baby
clinics seem to interest him most at the
moment.
Russell-street South is gradually being
transformed. The T. and G. 12-storeyed struc-
ture, which will extend from Collins-street,
opposite Scots’ Kirk, nearly down to Little
Flinders-street, is making good headway-
towards completion. Another warehouse is
rising fast on the space formerly occupied
by the squatty two-storeyed Apollo Inn.
Soon there will be only the Australian
Church conventicle between this new build-
ing and the new Empire Theatre to be
erected on the site of the old Herald office
(more recently tenanted by the Morning
Post and the Immigration Bureau 1. One
little building on the west side of this sec-
tion that looks serenely and without envy
on the improvements around it is the meet-
ing-house of the Quakers. The Central-
station entrance in Flinders-street opposite
Russell-street is now becoming more popular,
and it is even thought worth while to issue
as well as collect tickets tlier-e.
Richard Linton and his family are packing
for a short holiday in England early in
the New Year. The trip is being taken to
restore to health their eldest son, who has
just pulled through a very serious illness.
The E.S.U. is likely to lose Richard Gipps.
its hon. sec., and his wife, who manages the
Common Interests section of the union.
They have in view a visit to Europe in Fen-
ruary next. Their places will be hard to
fill for the union’s affairs nowadays require
a good deal of attention from officers.


A. SAUNDERS
EXCLUSIVE NEW YEAR GIFTS
POST FREE.
A. Saunders’
Single Diamond
Octagon-shaped,
Platinum-set,
18ct. Gold Ring.
€7/10/-
A. Saundeie
3 Diamonds,
Hexagon-shaped,
Platinum-set,
18ct. Gold Ring,
£7/10/-
A. Saunders’
5 Diamonds,
Octagon-shaped,
Platinum-set,
18ct. Gold Ring,
£l5.
A. Saunders’ Lady’s 9ct. Gold Jewelled Lever
Watch, Silk Wristband, £5/10/-
Other fancy shapes.
£2/10/-, £3, £3/10/-, £4, £4/10/-
All Guaranteed.
A. Saunders’
Diamond Fancy
Platinum-Set,
18ct. Gold Ring,
A. Saunders’
Single Diamond,
Hexagon-shaped,
Platinum-set,
18ct. Gold Ring,
£l5,
A. Saunders’
Diamond
Button Cluster,
set Platinum
18ct. Gold Ring,
A. Saunders’
Diamonds,
Fancy Platinum -
set, 18ct. Gold
POST FREE.
A. Saunders’
4 Diamonds,
Set Platinum
18ct. Gold Ring,
£lO.
A. Saunders’
3 Diamonds,
Octagon-shaped,
Platinum-set,
18ct. Gold Ring,
£l2/10/-
A. Saunders’
2 Diamonds,
Octagon-shaped,
Platinum-set,
18ct. Gold Ring,
A. Saunders’
9et. Gold
Signet Ring,
20/-
kĵk;kj;kl'l
A. Saunders’
Gent.’s 9ct.
Gold Bloodstone
Signet Ring,
35/-
A. Saunders’ Gent.’s Solid Silver Rectangular Wrist Watch,
£2/10/-. Extra Jewelled, £3, £3/10/-, £4/10/-, £5
10-year Gold-filled, £3. . Set. Gold, £4/10/- £5
£5/10/-, £6/10/-, £7/10/-, £B/10/-
18ct. Gold, £l2/10/- ALL GUARANTEED.
RING BOOK WITH SIZE CARD FORWARDED FREE.
A. SAUNDERS,
Watchmaker—Jeweller—Optician,
805-813 GEORGE STREET (opposite Railway Station), SYDNEY.
Before Booking Your
Passage
CONSULT
THOS. COOK AND SON
kĵk;kj;kl'l
The only Firm in the World
with permanent offices in all
countries to give service and
assistance to Travellers.
Their Uniformed interpreters at all
ports and stations in Europe assist their
patrons in passing Customs examina-
tions, registerirg baggage, etc.
Passages Booked by all Lines.
Travellers* Cheques Issued.
Insurance of Baggage Effected.
Escorted Tours to Europe, etc.
Australian Farmers* Tour to Europe.
Inclusive Independent Tours.
Summer Holiday Tours.
Sailing Lists, Programmes and all Information
Post Free from
THOS. COOK AND SON
MELBOURNE:
269 Collins Street.
ADELAIDE:
49a Grenfell Street.
AUCKLAND:
N.Z. Insurance Building,
Queen Street.
BRISBANE:
Hibernian Building,
Adelaide Street.
SYDNEY:
Martin Place.
PERTH:
22 Forrest Place.
WELLINGTON:
Government Life Building?
(Next G.P.O.)*
The
Battery made to do
a BATTERY’S job
Healthy rush of power into the
starter ; steady supply of current to
your lights ; remarkably little loss
between charge and discharge ; a
battery which lets your dynamo do its
best and gives your starter a chance
to show what it’s made of: a
BATTERY—that’s a P. & R.
A battery in which everything which
could possibly make for a better
battery has been embodied. The
battery with the heat-proof, leak-
proof, acid-proof, almost unbreakable
Dagenite case. The battery you will
eventually come to, and about which
you will say it’s a BATI'ERY.
R-R
PETO Sl RADFORD
ACCUMULATORS
The begmorng and Ific end in
Poweß
Before you buy any
battery write for
special booklet to
address below.
M kĵk;kj;kl'l
kĵk;kj;kl'l
Direct Factory
Representative:
John Arnold,
Deg-rea ves Buildings,
Degrea ea Street,
Melbourne.
A - Q. healing, ltd.,
Melbourne.
smith sons & rees, ltd.,
Sydney.
ROY HILL & CO„ LTD., Adelaide
MOTOR VEHICLES, LTD.
Perth.
REYNOLDS &.CO.,
V Wellington, N.Z.
£
mm.' w
Unhurried
Craftsmanship
Every ELGIN is a strik-
ing example of good
taste, authentic design
and unhurried crafts-
manship.
Conceded to be the world’s stan-
dard for watch integrity, ELGIN
also combines exquisite beauty of
design.
OBTAINABLE AT ALL LEADING JEWELLERS.
<5/ gin
THE WATCH WORD FOR ELEGANCE AND EFFICIENCY
Jhip Jrade Mark
kĵk;kj;kl'l
in the Watch Care


Men’s and Boys’
Clothing.
MEN'S GREY ALL-WOOL
FLANNEL OXFORD
TROUSERS
Turn-up Bottoms, Retail, 16/11.
FOSSEY’S
PRICE. . .
11/8
MEN’S CREAM COTTON
GABARDINE
SPORTS
TROUSERS
Turn-up Bottoms, Hip Straps, Belt
Loops. Retail, 10/6.
FOSSEY’S
PRICE..
8/11
MEN’S OXFORD SPORTS
TROUSERS
In Heather. Beach Grey. Extra
Well Tailored. Retail, 30/-
FOSSEY’S
PRICE. .
22/6
MEN’S HEAVY
ENGLISH NAP
TROUSERS
All Sizes. Retail, 1 1 /9.
FOSSEY’S
PRICE..
8/11
MEN’S FAWN AND GREY
COTTON GABARDINE
TROUSERS
FOSSEY’S
PRICE. .
5/11
MEN’S NAVY SERGE
OR DARK ALL-WOOL
GREY TWEED
SUITS
Well Tailored. All Sizes.
FOSSEY’S
PRICE. .
38/9
BOYS’ DARK
COTTON TWEED
SUITS
Lined Throughout. Very Well
Made.
FOSSEY’S
PRICE. .
12/6
BOYS’ NAVY
SERGE GOLF
SUITS
Half-Belt Back.
Plain Knee Knickers.
FOSSEY’S
PRICE. .
22/6
BOYS’ DARK TWEED
OR WHITE DRILL
KNICKERS
All Sizes.
FOSSEY’S
PRICE...
l/UVz
FOSSEY’3
TO “THE BULL
(LAY-BYS SPECIAI
ALL PURE SILK
NATURAL
FUJI
29 inches Wide.
Best Quality.
FOSSEY’S
PRICE. .
1/4%
FOSSEY’S
PRICE..
ALL PURE SILK
COLORED
FUJI
Every Wanted Shade.
29 inches Wide.
i / BV2
ALL PURE SILK
COLORED
Crepe-de-Chine
26 Beautiful Colors.
Double Width. Retail, 5/11.
FOSSEY’S
PRICE..
2/11%
Men’s and Boys’
Clothing.
BOYS’ NAVY
ALL-WOOL FLANNEL
BLAZER COATS
Assorted Colored Cord Edgings.
FOSSEY’S
PRICE..
6/11
BOYS’ STRIPED CREAM
CRASH WASHING
COATS
All Sizes. Splendid for School
or Holidays.
FOSSEY’S
PRICE..
2/4%
BOYS’ DARK
BENGAL TWEED
WASHING COATS
FOR SUMMER WEAR.
Retail, 4/11.
FOSSEY’S
PRICE ..
3/8
MEN'S 818 AND BRACE
OVERALLS
In Navy, Khaki and White.
Made of Very Strong Drill.
FOSSEY’S
PR1CE......
Alt 1
SPECIAL SAVINGS
SATIN-FACED MARCELLA
QUILTS
14/11
Well Raised Designs.
Large Double-Bed Size. Value 29/6.
WHITE HONEYCOMB
QUILTS
8/11
Large Double-Bed Size.
Fine Quality. Retail Value, 10/6.
HEMSTITCHED
PILLOW CASES
1 /“ea.
Fine Linen Finish.
Good Household Quality. Value 1/6.
PLAIN TAPED
PILLOW SLIPS
i/-
Linen Finish.
Size 20 x 30. Retail Value, 1/6.
Verandah Ticking
2/n y 2
Block Stripes in Brown, Green
and Red. Value 3/11.
PILLOW TICKS.
READY FOR FILLIF
TYPED KITCHEN '
SIZE 21 x 29
CREAM TRELLIS M
ASS’TD CHECK DES
54in. HA L F - BL 1
DAMASK. ASSOR'
27m. CRETONNE.
DESIGNS AND COL
WELL-FILLED SATI
ASSORTED DESIGf
50in. SHADOW TK
DESIGNS. VERY GC
BEST QUALITY TEA!
Per lb
LINEN - FINISHED
GOOD RANGE OF
Size 18 x 18
BROWN STRIPED 1
BATH TOWELS.
QUALITY. Size 24 3
29in. FLORAL SAI
ASSORTMENT OF I
COLORINGS
♦ ART SILK
i VOILES
I n-
} 27 inches Wide.
Assorted
} Smart Designs.
{ Retail Value, 1/11
FINE JAR
CREPE
6V2d.
30 inches Wide.
All Pale Shades.
Fast Colors.
Retail Value, 1/-
WOVEN STRIPED
SHIRTING
T/ii.
Good Wearing.
30 inches Wide.
Assortment Useful
Stripes.
COLORED
COTTON
FUJI
i/-
All Shades. 30
inches Wide. Silky
Finish. Fast Colors.
DOUI
UN
9 1 /
Eve
Wash 1
Splen^
FOSSEYS,
MAIL 0}
ADE


OFFERS
TIN” READERS
CATERED FOR.)
ALL PURE SILK
STRIPED
Crepe-de-Chine
Extra Heavy Quality.
Large Assortment Stripes.
Retail, 6/11.
FOSSEY’S
PRICE..
4/6V2
ALL PURE SILK
HEAVYWEIGHT
Crepe-de-Chine
Beautiful Quality.
Double Width. Retail, 8/11.
FOSSEY’S
PRICE ..
4/11
ALL PURE SILK
COLORED
GEORGETTE
Large Range of Colors.
Retail, 5/6.
FOSSEY’S
PRICE .
3/6*72
THE MANCHESTER!
lELS.
T/u.
lAS.
8. 36in.
s7id
4V2d.
CHED TABLE
DESIGNS .. .
i/-
H NEAT
7Vu.
COSEYS.
I. ASSORTED
QUALITY. Yd.,
316
KAPOK
1 /6%
MASK SERVIETTES.
Dozen
3/6
USH
AVY
kĵk;kj;kl'l
i. COMPLETE
GNS AND
.. . . Yard
9*724
BONDS’ WHITE
TURKISH TOWELS
!/9
Very Heavy Quality and Very
Absorbent. Size 25 x 46.
Retail Value, 2/11.
ECRU MADRAS
36in. 45in.
1/- 1/6%
With Assorted Smart Colored
Borders. Value 1/6, 2/3.
STRIPED
CURTAIN NETS
1/4%
With Assorted Colored Stripes.
37in. Wide. Value 1/11 id.
Boz. CREAM
DUCK
1/11%
Suitable for Motor-Car Covers,
Tents, Flies, etc.
GREY TWILL
SHEETING
1/11%
80in. Wide. Heavy Quality.
Men’s and Boys’
Mercery.
MEN’S “BANNER” SILK
AND WOOL
SOX
All Sizes. Assorted Fancy
Designs. Retail, 3/1 L
FOSSEY’S
PRICE . .
2/11%
MEN’S ALL-WOOL
KNITTED
BATHING
COSTUMES
In Saxe, Fawn and Cardinal.
Retail, 21/-
FOSSEY’S
PRICE. .
15/11
BOYS’ ONE-PIECE
COTTON
SWIMMERS
Reliable Quality.
FOSSEY’S
PRICE
-| /£* 1/
1 1 0/2
MEN’S FANCY
CASHMERE TWILL
STRIPED
PYJAMAS
All Sizes. Neat Stripes.
Retail, 7/11.
FOSSEY’S
PRICE
r* /1 -I
D/ 1 1
WIDTH
TES
Yard.
•olor.
* Child-
BLACK ITALIAN
CLOTH
1 /3V2
54 inches Wide.
Heavy Quality.
Highly Mercerised.
"DAYTIME”
ZEPHYRS
1 m Yard.
Makes the Prettiest
Morning Beach or
House Frocks.
OVER CHECK
ZEPHYRS
B%a
Double Width.
Assorted Checks.
Durable Quality.
DOUBLE-WIDTH
FLORAL
VOILES
1/11 Y " d -
Assorted Dainty
Designs in Fine
Weave.
t STREET,
(ERS PLEASE
FREIGHT.
SYDNEY
Men’s and Boys’
Mercery.
BOYS - STRIPED POPLIN
SHIRTS
With Collar and Pocket.
Blue, Mauve and Fawn Stripes.
Sizes 12 to 1 3%.
Retail, 4/11.
FOSSEY’S
PRICE...
3/6
BOYS’ STRIPED CRASH
AND CAMBRIC
RANGERS and
BLOUSERS
All Sizes.
FOSSEY’S
PRICE..
i/nv 2
BOYS’ STRONG GREY
ZEPHYR SHIRTS
With Collar and Pocket.
All Sizes. Retail, 3/1 I.
FOSSEY’S
PRICE..
2/9
MEN’S CELLULAR ATHLETIC
SINGLETS
Retail, 2/6.
FOSSEY’S
PRICE. .
1/6
BOYS’ STRIPED
POPLIN DE LUXE
PYJAMAS
Sizes 22 to 32.
FOSSEY’S
PRICE..
6/6
Pair
MEN’S
STRIPED ZEPHYR
GOLF SHIRTS
Separate Collar to Match.
All Sizes. Neat Stripes.
Fast Colors. Retail, 5/11.
FOSSEY’S
PRICE..
3/11
MEN’S ALL SILK
CREAM FUJI
GOLF SHIRTS
With Separate Collar to Match.
Also in Sports and Tennis Styles.
All Sizes. Retail, 15/11.
FOSSEY’S
PRICE..
8/11


Under
Royal
..Warrant
kĵk;kj;kl'l
To H.M.
George V
Vintage 1917.
CHAMPAGNE
1811
Australasian Agents—
Swift & Company Limited
SYDNEY.
CHAMPACHt
'iarieslfcidsieo^
Reims
*3
PELLISSON
Cognac Brandy.
lo YEARS OLD.
Australasian Agrents—
SWIFT & COMPANY LIMITED, Sydney.
Qable Address : “MUM”
IF ire A ccommodation.
We n twortb
HCJIEL
Offers the Perfect Accompaniment
to Twentieth-Century Travel.
The Most Up-to-date Hotel in the
Southern Hemisphere.
Luxurious lounges. Private Suites. Hot
and Cold Water, and Telephones in every
room. Rooms with or without baths.
SEE SYDNEY UNDER PERFECT
CONDITIONS.
TARIFF:
Room with breakfast, 17,
Inclusive Board from 26/
with bath from 30/-
Attached is the Famous Went-
worth Cafe. The Mecca of
Social Sydney.
ADDRESS: LANG STREET, SYDNEY.
"The centre of QueepS/on c/s
Qs ct/ st/ npu/sheet Soc/o/ Life.
€cnnom
Wotcl
BRISBANE
Magnificent B a 11-
room. Palm Court
kĵk;kj;kl'l
and Lounges at the disposal of
guests and their friends at all
times.
Suites de Luxe—double and single
Bedrooms, with Bathrooms
attached. Hot and cold running
water and Electric Fans in every
Bedroom, and every modern con-
venience for the comfort of guests.
Telegrams and Cables: Lennon’s, Brisbane,
Telephone, Central 5780 —10 Liner
A WOMAN'S
LETTER
SAY-
Kayser
SILK OR
CHAMOISETTE
GLOVES
The grotesque and the ugly were not so
conspicuous among the toy displays this
year; for, of course, nobody could class
the woebegone Dismal Desmond or the larri-
kin Felix as either grotesque or ugly—
there’s something appealing about these two,
though neither could be called winsome.
It’s another instance of a little child lead-
ing them, for if the kiddy had not rejected
the freak’s invasion of the toy world the
freak by this time would have had a number-
less progeny. Perhaps under the child’s
guidance we are gradually working back
to sanity in art and symmetry in line.
The windows have been a never-failing
entertainment for wandering crowds. There
was a beautiful Taronga Park, with a sort
of scenic railway along which monkeys and
bears went joy-riding in a rakish-looking
trolley—more sedate animals meanwhile sun-
ning themselves outside their rocky lairs.
Further down Pitt-street a sturdy Jumbo
solemnly played see-saw with a dashing
Pierrot. In apother window an entire circus
was at work —clockwork lions and lion-
tamers, acrobats, dancing bears, clowns and
pugilists—while sneaking a look over the
fence were four small boys. And there was
a meek life-size elephant who, when pulled
by the tusk, slowly and gracefully bent his
head or moved it from side to side. And toy
motor-cars nearly the size of a Baby Austin,
and motor-trucks that could almost have
traded in Paddy’s Market, parked resplendent
before a row of rocking-horses.
A many-boughed and heavily-laden Christ-
mas tree grew at the Ambassadors last
week when the Stewart Dawsons gave
their yearly party for the not-so-lucky little
ones of Sydney. Nearly 2000 youngsters
stepped from golden chariots (that to grown-
ups are just Yellow taxis) to the gilded
halls of the Ambassadors. There they were
at once at home, for their old friend Felix
the Cat waved a friendly paw to them as he
scuttled across the silver screen at the head
of the ballroom. After the pictures (and
during them the little ones from the Blind
Institute played gaily enough on their
mouth-organs and their little pianolas) came
Santa Claus and the festive indigestibles.
Sydney has only one pantomime visitor
this year. Her name is “Mother Goose,” and
her address the Grand Opera House. It’s
a splendiferous show, prettily dressed and
mounted, and from the opening backcloth,
showing a street in Toy land where camels and
toy motors and geese and giraffes are under
the stern direction of a huge white-gaunt-
leted traffic policeman, the story goes its
gay or dramatic way through the Vulture’s
Cave (here an enormous black owl blinks
amber eyes against a peach-pink moon set
in a midnight-blue sky against which coal-
black branches of trees stir and quiver),
a sea grot, 70 fathoms deep, and a garden
where all the roses in the world seem to
grow. The sea grot is a bluey-green cool-
ness stretching into a rose-colored distance.
It is lighted by giant silver jellyfish that
obligingly lift themselves from the floor
to the ceiling and thence hang like amazing
crystal chandeliers, while, below, Neptune’s
daughters, damped in green and silver sea-
weed, with glittering starfish head-dresses,
make merry with a group of mossy sea-
urchins, or baby coral islets—this Letter
isn’t quits sure which. There’s a scene that
looks like the rose walk in Centennial Park;
and a street scene that looks like a bit of
Dutch pottery.
The first ballet suggests tulips in its pale
greens and yellows and mauves. In this the
girls’ dresses are narrow and high-waisted,
after the Directoire style, and into this
company heroine Silver Bell drifts in a blue
and pink lilac souffle. After that she bears
her trials in a jade green taffeta and tulle
mixture on which roses bloom, a rose pink
taffeta addicted to the same horticulture, a
powder-blue on which ribbon roses are appli-
qued. and a wedding dress as glittersome as
a Christmas cake. Mother Goose's son
(Dorothy Dewar) wins the heart of Silver
Bell between changes of a brown and green
tunic, a black satin and amber velvet out-
fit, a royal blue affair with a dazzling cloth
of gold cape and others too numerous to
mention.
The R.C. faithful from all countries will
journey to Sydney for the Eucharistic Con-
gress next year, and the committee expects,
iit a conservative estimate, 200,000 visitors.
Princes of the Church from England,
America, Italy, Spain, Poland, China and
Japan, and dukes and earls and distinguished
men of letters will be among those who will
cross the seas to walk in the procession that
stirs the pulse of the Catholic as does no
other ceremonial. The Pontifical High
Masses will be chanted at a Great High
Altar in the centre of the ring at the Show-
ground. The Town Hall, the Palais Royal,
St. Mary’s and the Australian Hail have
been booked for sessions, and twice daily
at each meeting-place a discourse will be
given. One of the happiest features of the
preparations so far is the dignified and
understanding letter from Premier Tom
Bavin to the Congress Executive.
The black satin evening frock has been
revived. Everywhere it is seen instead of
the pointed frills of georgette and net which
for so long held the favor of the dancer.
Ring velvet —so named because its makers
swear it can be drawn through a ring—is
one of the moment’s crazes. Frocks of this
are generally made closely fitting, to show
off the suppleness of the fabric, which is so
fine that the underslip can be seen through
it. The little evening frock is gone; even-
ing cloaks and frocks are all built on
elaborate lines. A last-minute evening coat
that appeared at the Oronsay ball last week
was of gold stamped lame lined with gold
silk. Its sleeves were loose and flowing,
giving a cape effect, and were edged with
black velvet, as was its hem. It was
collared with an entire fox dyed beige, and
this was arranged so that it came about
two inches lower down on the right rever
than the left —a truly splendid wrap.
Another was Of many-colored chenille, made
with Magyar sleeves and very pouched back.
Beneath its hip girdle it floated away into
a thick fringe of the chenille. It also was
collared in beige fur.
The gaiter is growing steadily in favor as
an article of legwear. A few pairs of Rus-
sian boots are still seen about the streets,
but they have this drawback —you cannot
kick them off if the mercury should take a
sudden race up the track. Gaiters most
patronised are of leather or suede, but there
are woven ones that fit into the legs like
stockings and are closely sewn with buttons
along the outer side from ankle to knee.
These fit snug and make even a calf of doubt-
ful age appear lamblike. A pair fashioned
of light-grey rubber that fitted so close they
might even have reducing virtues were worn
by a woman newly returned from England
and looked sensible, but one suspected they
might prove clammy. The splash guard, too,
is making itself known on the Sydney girl’s
silk stockings. These can be bought in a
small kit that fits easily in a corner of
the handbag. They are a boon to the busi-
ness girl and the woman of affairs busy
about city streets on a sloppy day. .
Every Bulletin reader has chuckled over
the stories of Randolph Bedford—the big
man of the boisterous manner and the breezy
speech who had he been born earlier would
certainly li'ave helped Captain Cook dis-
cover Australia, or maybe have done the
job lone-handed. Well, the youngster with
the humorous
mouth and the
crinkly eyes
in this picture
is his grand-
daughter
Peggy, and
Peggy is a
born comedy
actress. Her
mother, who is
one of Bris-
bane’s teachers
of stagecraft,
is at present
in Sydney with
a company of
her 'pupils.
They have
given perform-
ances all the
way down from
Brisbane, and
their bill of
singing, elocu-
tion and dancing greatly interested the
Northern Rivers. In Sydney they are
appearing at suburban theatres —just now
Peggy is convulsing Orpheum patrons.
Nellie Stewart’s beautiful legs and golden
voice were the outstanding features of the
“Cinderella” party at the Wentworth on
the Thursday before Christmas. Nell had
a rapt audience of grown-ups and kiddies,
to whom she told the story of the little
girl who got to the party, after all; and
as she unfolded the pretty romance its
various scenes were stressed by a group of
baby actors and actresses, who, dressed in
the proper regalia of the fairy-tale period,
formed themselves into tableaux. Six small
girls dressed as dolls captured the fancy
with their quaint dance, and when Santa
Claus (Rupert Markham) appeared with a
sled full of chocolate slippers, the small girl
and boy were in no mood to cavil at his
reindeer, which looked in some parts
strangely like a boy. The Ivaritane Mother-
craft Movement benefits by the party.
Stuart Doyle, because he’s been voted the
Ugliest Man in Sydney, can go about with
a key the size of a crane, and it makes the
city free to him whenever he likes to buy
it. Mayor Mostyn handed him the symbol
at a gala performance of “Wildflower,” the
State Governor thrust an illuminated address
and a badge of victory on the somewhat
embarrassed hero, and a charming posy of
radishes and carrots was sent up by his
gentlemen-in-waiting—the other Ugly Men
of Sydney. The competition has raised over
£lB,OOO for the Limbless Soldiers’ Appeal,
and Stuart Doyle’s backers were responsible
for one-fourth of it. The fund now stands
at £31,000, so the objective of £50.000 is
in sight. Meantime the club-house for the
limbless men, at Vaucluse, with its private
sea baths, its gymnasium, billiard-room and
bowling-green, is nearing completion.
Judith Fletcher presents Stella Marina,
one of the cleverest emotional actresses the
Repertory has brought forward. Galsworthy
seems to write
parts that fit
the pretty
creature like a
glove—or may-
be it is she is
s o adaptable
she can make
herself one
with any part.
At all events,
her work in
"The Show”
produced b y
the Repertory
in its last out-
burst was a
stirring per-
formance. In
“ Windows, ”
played by the
Rep. two or
thr e e years
ago, the clever
girl convinced
a big audience t'.at by her absence the pro-
fessional stage is losing an emotional actress
of great capacity.
The Girls’ Realm Guild had some
triumphs when the results of the University
exams, came out; three at least of the girls
its funds had assisted came through with
flying colors. Assistance to bright girl stu-
dents who want to complete University
courses is one of the Guild’s great aims; the
money advanced is regarded as a loan, and
when the beneficiary has achieved her pro-
fession the return of the money (free of
interest) is expected, although not de-
manded. The expectation has rarely failed
of justification, and usually there is interest
in the shape of new help. In one. case
assisted this year the father is a returned
soldier who has become completely unfit for
work. The family did not like to ask for
assistance, great as was their desire to see
their daughter through ; but the Guild heard
about it. and a cheque gracefully forwarded
by Miss Burrow's smoothed out their troubles.
Of all the Christmas pantomimes Farmer’s
have staged none lias been so pretty as this
year’s. Fay Hornby has once again written
the playlet, which begins at the very first
Christmas of all, with Shepherds, the Wise
Men and the Angels gathering around the..
Crib, each bringing his gift to the Child.
Small children from every country dance in
and tell the story of their epd-of-the-year
merry making. There are nursery rhymes
stepping through a loud speaker, and fairies
through a clock, and a wonderful pumpkin
that turns into a very smart carriage for
Cinderella. All the properties were made
by Farmer’s house staff, and they prove that
somebody lias an ingenious brain.
Indeed, though of course the foreign-made
toy has been in almost every window, the good
home product lias multiplied itself amaz-
ingly ; and the Australian maker has held
his own in the popular small-boy lines of
scooters, cycles, carts and motor-cars. Hans,
who a couple of years ago threatened to
overwhelm us, sent us little that was either
very good or very striking; and Japan was
almost out of the market.
On the Tuesday before Christmas Air
Force blue made a bright splash when Pat,
second daughter of the P. J. Magennises, of
Jeir station, Yass, was quietly married to
Fliglit-Lieut. F. B. Bladin youngest son of
the F. W. Bladins, of Melbourne. The bride
wore a handsomely-beaded ivory chiffon frock
blazing with diamente. A Flanders point-
lace veil fell in misty folds over an elabo-
rately embroidered train, and a sheaf of
palest pink gladioli was carried. An old-
world frock of pink georgette and taffeta was
worn by Phyl, who attended her sister as
bridesmaid. Alex. McDonald was best man.
The reception was held at the station home-
stead, where Mrs. Magennis’s amethyst
pleated georgette frock received the atten-
tion it merited. Mrs. Bladin assisted the
bride’s mother in welcoming the guests.
The E. J. Cootes, of Bellevue Hill,
gave daughter Adele over to the keep-
ing of Dr. H. Carlyle Taylor, of
Scone, early last week. Padre Hugh
Baton tied the knot very neatly and
efficiently at St. Stephen’s in Pliillip-street,
which was filled with the clansmen of both
sides. The wedding garment, lustrous with
pearls and diamente, was of white georgette,
frilled as to skirt. The train fell in a
folded wing effect from the shoulders and
was of pearl-embroidered chiffon, its scal-
loped hem blooming with a border of flat
velvet roses. In the veil real Honiton mixed
with cut tulle; and the nun-like beauty of
gladioli in the bend of her arm finished off
the bride’s de luxe raiment. Sister Ella and
Elsie Taylor ’maided in chiffons like rose
petals; and they, too, carried the cool dig-
nity of gladioli into the picture. The ban-
quet-liall of the Australia was resplendent
for the congratulations, Mrs. Coote wearing
black Chantilly splashed with silver.
St. Mark’s at Darling Point registered the
vows of Marion Burkitt and Dr. J..V. Hall
Best. The French vogue for the net dress was
illustrated by the bride, the combination being
ivory net supported by something- uncommon
in white moire. Two little girls, like pink
and cream rosebuds, stepped demurely after
the leading lady’s floating tulle veil. The
’groom’s father was the Rev. Hall Best, of
Rose Bay; and the bride is the youngest
daughter of the late Dr. Burkitt, of Dubbo,
and he was the son of an old master of
King’s.
A bride for whom the Voice breathed o’er,
St. James’s last week was Gladys Crouch,'
daughter of the Crouches of Randwick. Her
father squired his daughter up the aisle of
the old King-street church, and the shining
trail of her chiffon and Chantilly was
followed by sister Marjorie and Joan John-
ston in lily-leaf green chiffons against which
the bright red roses of their armlets swayed
in gay relief. The groom was A. F.
Robertson-Cunninghame, a slieep-grower of
Deepwhter, and the after-events were staged
at the Wentworth under the hospitable direc-
tion of the bride’s parents.
Some weeks ago this Letter recorded the
engagement of Helene Howes, the Bradley’s
Head girl who went to Rangoon to see her
sister, Dr. Jeanette, married, and acquired
an admirer herself on landing. Father and
mother in Mosman having cabled their con-
sent, Helene has duly become Mrs. William
Hodge. The wedding took place at Scots’
Church, Rangoon. And no' sooner had the
house settled down again than the only other
child of the family, son Keith, sent word
from his Queensland squattage of his en-
gagement.
Nell Maiden, whose father taught the
trees in Sydney’s Botanic Gardens how to
grow, burst into orange-blossom just before
Christmas. She sported the bridal bloom to
keep her tryst at St. Andrew’s with George
Garnock, one time of Cooma. Padre 0. T.
Perkins, Cranbrook’s principal, tied the knot,
and Dr. Brown-Craig led his sister-in-law,
in her wash of pink tulle and georgette, to
the altar.
Chanucah is the Jewish hero-festival, a
memorial of the Maocabeans, and it is the
habit, when it comes round, to entertain
those who are worthy of honor. It js a
period of gift-giving also, and as it comes
conveniently close to Christmas young Issy
and Becky are able to get the toys and feasts
to which their Christian school-friends are
looking forward. In some wealthy Jewish
families, in fact, Issy and Becky get a
double load of gifts, since their indulgent
parents keep up Christmas, too, although
merely in its festival sense. Incidentally, a
few- years ago an uninformed advertiser gave
a full-page advertisement of Christmas toys
to a Jewish periodical. It was regarded as
rather a joke, though it may have been really
far-sighted business. But the same journal
had to sourly decline another advertisement
—one for Christmas hams.
The remarkable University achievements
of Jewish scholars was given a reference at
the Chanucah entertainment held this year
at the Maccabean Hall, at which A. M.
Loewenthal, an ex-president, just returned
from a trip abroad, three Jewish M’s.L.A. —
Dan Levy, E. S. Marks and 11. Goldstein —
successful University students and Jewish
returned soldiers were entertained. Rabbi
Cohen said that there w T ere 16 young men
who had just successfully completed their
University studies. In the Law school W.
Lieberman had won the University gold
medal and first place; and the second place
had gone to S. Isaacs. One of the girls, Miss
D. Goulston, had won the University gold
medal in Science. As the Jewish community
numbers only about 10,000, the proportion of
successes is remarkable. . Incidentally, young
Loewenthal, of the family of the chief guest
of the evening, was Captain of the School
at Sydney Grammar this year.


hardy brqther§
Charming Styles in Ladies 5 Toilet Requisites
HI 50 6.
Blue Pastille Morocco Leather Toilet
Case, containing soap, flannel, towel,
nail-brush, mirror, comb and nail-file.
Lined with oiled silk. Size, 64 x
inches.
23/-
81501.
Blue Calf Leather
Vanity Case, contain
ing mirror, file, puff,
comb. Size, closed,
4 x 3J inches.
14/-
81501.
mm
m
151502.
81503.
Silver Gilt Mounted Mani-
cure Set, in Blue or Pink
Crushed Morocco Case,
lined Moir6 Silk, contain-
ing four silver-mounted in
struments, pair all-stee!
scissors and two orange-
sticks. Size, folded, 3 x
11 inches.
32/-
81502.
Blue Leather Manicure
Roll, with White Xylonite
and Steel Fittings. Con
taining two pairs Scissors,
Pusher, Cuticle Knife, File,
Polisher, Orange-sticks and
Sand Boards; also Brille-
rose.
£2/2/-
Five per cent, discount allowed Jor Cash.
Hardy's New Catalogue will be sent , post free, to any address.
298-300 •
COLLINS ST..
MELBOURNE.
HARDY
BROTHERS LTD.
*lfielfoxLsc oP^sgUlswc tJewelUy
13 HUNTER STREET, SYDNEY.
And at LONDON.
JI6-JJB
QUEEN ST.
BRISBANE.
©
©
belli
Perry Bells are
heard in every
country m the
World where the
cycle is- in
They are Band'
some, well'
finished, strong,
having a loud
musical tone that
gives amp e
warning of the
cyclist’s ap'
proach. Made in
various smes and
styles, there is
one suitable for
every purse and
purpose.
The Perry Free
Wheel is perhaps
the most popular
free wheel ever
made—and it has
been fitted to
cycles since the
very earliest
days of the indus-
try. The Perry
Free Wheel en-
sures smooth
running and
wears as long as
the cycle itself.
It is, of course,
at its best with
the Perry Chain.
r J
CH4INJ
Perr y Roller
Chains are made
for both cycles
a nd motorcycles
andaresubjected'
to stringent tests
and a very heavy
breaking strain
before despatch.
The Perry Chain
ls *deaJ with the
Perr y Free
Wheel, although
U can be used
Wlf h advantage
with any other
make.
£1
FACTOR/ REPRESENTATIVE
JOHN.ARNOLD
The Little Sisters
Lennon's Hotel
BRISBANE
The Centre of Queensland
Distinguished Social Life!
QUEENSLAND.
Brisbane.
The Goodwins went to the Christmas cele-
brations at Aedoyne Convalescent Home,
where Sir John distributed Red Cross gifts
to the patients. Rose-colored cannas and
cactus dahlias decorated, and in the main
ward bougainvillaea wars wound about the
pillars and Chinese lanterns veiled the lights.
General Foott, Matron Macdonald, Miss
Wassail and Mrs. A. B. Stark were amongst
those who received the v.-r. party.
Their Exes gave a dinner at Government
House to Colonel and Mrs. Marks, Dr. and
Mrs. Espie Dods, the A. E. Coldhams and
Miss Coldham, the Christies, Miss Riley and
Captain 11. M. Saunders.
New Farm Park was the scene of a picnic
for the relatives of soldiers and sailors, and
there was a big roll-up. Mrs. Grierson
Brown, wife of The Bulletin’s. “Tarboy,”
is president of this league.
Seven hundred kiddies were feted at the
Catholic Seamen’s Club. A fleet of motor-
cars brought children of all creeds and sizes
to a heavily-laden Christmas-tree, and the
youngsters gave an impromptu concert as
thanksgiving.
In the Albert Hall another tree sprouted,
and Santa Claus emerged from a red-brick
fireplace and shook hands with Minister for
Works Kirwan before handing out the gifts.
Afternoon tea followed.
The law students celebrated the season
with a mock trial in the Supreme Court, T.
M. Barry being the Judge, and Bill von
Ploennies a sky-pilot who gave evidence in a
divorce action. The Flemings, the Lar-
'comb.es., the Luxmores and Eve Jeffrey had
seats in the body of the court.
Mrs. P. J. Symes superintended the pro-
duction of Cicely Hamilton’s nativity play,
“The Child in Flanders,” at All Saints’ Ilall.
The Comte de Tournouer took the part of
Joseph Gamier, and later on appeared as
St. Joseph. Olwen Armstrong made a hand-
some Virgin Mary. George Kitson’s sweet
voice uprose for the chanting, and the choir
of All Saints’ did their bit. Mrs. Symes set
the ball rolling with recitations appropriate
to Yuletide. There was good booking for
both evenings, and St. Francis's Spring-hill
Mission gleaned the harvest.
Though there are many unemployed city
traders are not complaining of lack of shop-
pers, but the charitable societies have a sorry
tale of out-of-work applicants for relief.
The Weavers’ Club had a party to fare-
well Mrs. James Stitt at the Women’s Club.
To wish her bon voyage— she’s going to the
Cold Country—a presentation was made of a
brass bowl, w r hich Mrs. A. B. Stark handed
over, Mrs. A. Barker thanking Mrs. Stitt for
her services. Mrs. Dyer, of the Oenpelli mis-
sion in the North, gave an address on her
work. Mrs. de Witt Batty was one of the
throng.
Margaret Wilson gave a party for Eileen
Walsh, who marries Dick Harding at the
end of December. Mrs. E. K. Tally. Mrs.
John Flower, Jean and Joyce Darvall and
Leith Graham were guests.
Mayor Jolly’s aldermen have decided that
for a mayor to work 16 to 18 hours a day
is more than even a Mayor Jolly can stand.
Suggestions have been made that a muni-
cipal Cabinet be set up, with a vice-mayor as
an alternative. At the lunch given to his
colleagues and officers on Mount Coo-tlia
Mayor Jolly admitted that the toil was
strenuous —and he isn’t one to moan about
having to work.
WESTRALIA.
Perth.
Eight little students stepped forward for
their scraps of parchment on a recent even-
ing at Meerilinga Kindergarten Training
College. Clever Kathleen Walsh obtained a
double first for the practical and theoretical
branches, and Eileen Learmonth. Sandra
Chase, Margaret Evans, Josephine Fox, Jean
Eastwood, Eva Watts and Alice Dodge were
the other graduates. Among those who
clapped were Miss Stoneman, Mrs. Riscli-
bietli, who for many years was hon. sec.,
Mrs. Odium and Miss Wilson.
Guildford C. of E. Grammar has acquired
Padre Robert Freeth as its headmaster.
Lately he has been junior-house chief and
classics master at “Shore” Grammar, Syd-
a ey, and the
school’s very
active and suc-
cessful rowing
an d football,
coach since
1920. Being a
Dublin man, it
almost follows
that his uni-
versity wa s
Cambridge. He
was senior
classics scholar
of Sel w y n
(Cam.) in
1905, and in
1906 was in
the trial
eights. H e
came to Aus-
tralia as padre
to the Angas-
ton parish
. , (S.A.), and
latex became house master at King’s (Par-
ramatta). where he worked up keen interest
in rowing.
Mrs. Lindsay booked a drawing-room at
Cambray Mansions for an afternoon party in
honor of daughter Joyce and son Bob. on
leave from liis regiment in Blighty. Mrs.
landsay and second daughter Rosemary have
spent some months at Yanchep, where the
surf and the fishing prove more alluring than
the cold of Fogland winters.
T. H. Lovegrove, who passed out at 82,
had a varied career in W.A., and was known
by many. The Imperial Government sent
him to Australia as a just-fledged medico.
Bunbury had his medical services and gazet-
ted him police-magistrate. He lived at Kim-
berley for five years as Government Resident
and Warden, and at Perth he was Acting-
Colonial Surgeon and later principal medical
officer.
An Orient scholarship came the way of
Eva, elder daughter of the 11. A. Cor-
bets, of the Mint. She left by the Euripides,
and after a look at England will study in
Spain, the country that most interests her.
A pupil of the Loreto Sisters, she gradu-
ated in Arts at Perth Uni., and has been
for some years teaching the upper forms for
the Church of England Sisters at Perth
College.
In the Betty Ross Clarke Co.’s perform-
ance of “The Witness for the Defence,” at
His Majesty’s. Miss Clarke made a convinc-
ing Stella. The part of Harold Hazlewood
was taken by Herbert Millard, a Perth
amateur, who did well, and that of Richard
by Eddie Brown-Cooper, another local
product, who scored a success, too.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA.
Adelaide.
Only the keenest sports perspired at Tat-
tersall’s Morphettville meeting—the day was
a. roaster —and there was a crop of white
crepe de Chine frocks. Mrs. P. .T. Flarihagan
helped her husband, chairman of the club,
to entertain guests at lunch and afternoon
tea, but her pretty daughters gave the show
,a miss.
Christmas dinners and teas have been
served at all tin* public institutions this
week, and the Red Cross workers have been
kept busy. The • soldiers’ hostels, Myrtle
Bank, Bedford Park, Keswick, Anzac and
the Lady Galway Hut at Henley.. Beach; have
all had their turn, and Miss Murray, sister
of the Lieut.-Governor, has been kept busy
handing out Christmas gifts.
The St. Peter's College eleven that beat
Prince Alfred College the previous week left
by the Maloja for a holiday at Colombo, in
charge of padre Julian Bickerstetli. South
Australians resident in Ceylon will see that
they have the time of their young lives.
Two of the young cricketers, C. G. Toms,
who made top score in the inter-collegiate
match—over a century—and Wyndham Hill-
Smitli, were hosts at a jolly dance last week
at the Toms home.
Mrs. E. M. Hyland, with her sons Frank
and Jeffrey, has motored to Melbourne for
the Christmas holidays. Philip Angas Par-
sons and Cyril Langley took the long, long
trail to Sydney; and Gronwy Morris and
Lance Morgan followed their example.
Prof. Kerr Grant, his wife and two sons
are returning to Adelaide by the Narkunda,
arriving on January 21. Mrs. Fred Downer
and her daughter Alleyne are travelling by
the same boat as far as Colombo, where they
will meat young Syd Downer, who is one
of the lucky St. Peter’s eleven ; they leave
the land of spice a fortnight later and come
home by the Cathay.
The demand for toys this year is greater
than has ever been known. A great deal
of sympathy has been expressed practically
for the children of the unemployed, and the
distribution of gifts to these youngsters has
beeen extensive.
TASMANIA.
Hobart.
Crowds of lookers-on, the women in the
most summery of frocks, gathered to watch
the tennis matches played against a N.S.W.
team. His Ex. and party were among the
spectators. A violent thunderstorm, of a
sort we don’t often see here, broke half-way
through the afternoon and ended play. Mrs.
Bond and Miss Richardson held up Tassie’s
end nobly against Miss Cox and Miss Dingle.
A. C. Johnson, Lewis Loane and Brendan
Clarke got up a gay little dance at the
Imperial to replenish the coffers of the
Southern Ta.s. Tennis Association. The
lounge was decorated with delphiniums and
marigolds, and the lights were subdued with
yellow shades. Margaret O’Grady, in crystal-
embroidered pink georgette, and Mrs. Kerr
Cameron, in black, were in the throng.
It is not often that an out-of-doors even-
ing affair in Hobart proves successful, but
the weather was gloriously fine and warm
for the demonstration of eurhythmies for
which Commandant Cox Taylor issued invi-
tations. The Jones lady lent her garden,
which made an ideal setting, lit by festoons
of colored electric lights and Japanese lan-
terns. The demonstration was given by the
students of tin l Teachers’ College, under
instructor McKissock. who supervised the
male students, and Doris Buckney, who
trained the gilds. The Grecian dances were
particularly graceful. Col. Cox Taylor spoke
a word in season on behalf of such physical
training.
Mayoress Wignall opened the Derwent
Rowing Club’s fair at the Town Hall. A
special feature of the day was the appear-
ance of a new edition of the club's maga-
zine, the Derwent Trumpeter., first issued
in 1873. The new number, edited by G. L.
Barnes, carries on its cover caricatures of
some of the club’s ancient lights, among
them being knights Lambert Dobson and
Richard Dry and Bishops Bromley and
Murphy. Business was brisk, and when
everything was got rid of the floor was
cleared for dancing.
The Lyceum Club had as guest of honor
the other afternoon Mrs. Kerr Cameron,
who wore a navy cloth coat over an ivory
satin slip, and her sister Margaret, whose
frock matched her beige coat. There were
posies for both ladies. Madame Geraldine
Rivers sang and Margaret Fletcher recited.
Mary Bisdee. hon sec. for many years, re-
ceived a pretty handbag from tlie president
(Mrs. 11. Dobson), just to encourage her in
carrying on her good work. Several main-
landers were there.
A little Tasmanian singer of promise is
lesis Brown, of Wynyard, who has been
studying at Melbourne’s Albert-street Con.
for some time. She sang at a Launceston
concert lately and was given an enthusiastic
reception.


SYDNF.v.
The Finest Restaurant and
Dance Rendezvous in
Australasia.
Capacity: Dining and Supper Dances up
to 1000.
For Wedding Receptions, Banquets, Dining
and Supper Dances, inquiries to Manager.
Mon., Tues., Wed., Thurs., Fri., Palm Court
Table d’hote Dinner, 0 to 8 p.ni., 8/6; or
ft la carte. Evening Dress optional.
Mon., Tues., Wed., Fri., Supper Dance, 9.4')
till 1 a.m., 10/6. Evening Dress only.
Thursday and Saturday, late Gala Nights.
Continental Dinner from 8 p.m., 21/-. Supper
from 10 o’clock, 12/6. Continuous Dancing
from 8.15 p.rn.
PEERLESS ORCHESTRA OF TEN.
Bewitching Cabaret afternoon and evening.
Delightful Afternoon Tea, 3 to 5, 4 /r;
parties of 6 upwards 3/6.
Order Wines before 6 p.m. Ring M 3666.
Man's Full-size Open-
face Oxidised Steel
Watch, 66/-
START THE NEW YEAR
with a
“SUPER Fx&R” WATCH
These watches offer extraordinary value.
The movements are on the lever principle.
They have brequet over-coil balance springs.
They are threequarter-plate Levers.
They are jewelled in 15 holes.
They have compensated and adjusted balances.
They have jewelled ruby rollers.
They are specially made to stand rough riding and
knocking about.
They keep time to within seconds a month.
They are guaranteed for 15 years, and kept in order
(breakages excepted) for one year.
They are made in every style of case.
Fairfax & Roberts, Ltd.,
The Oldest Jewellery House in Sydney,
23 AND 25 HUNTER STREET.
PLAIN FIGURES. CASH ONLY.
m
Makes
the
Skins
worth getting. It’s not
what they are, but
what they realise
which chiefly concerns
you. Top values are
what you want. See
that you get them. For highest possible prices—
consign Rabbit, Fox and all other Skins to
WINCHCOMBt!, CARSON
LTD.
Salesmen,
SYDNEY or BRISBANE.
ABORIGINALITIES
MADE IN AUSTRALIA
BARNES LINSEED OIL
“Gouger”: In the dim ages, according to
the Torres Islanders, men and women were
very similar, though the men were
stronger. One starlit evening the
women-people suggested a dance.
The chief woman, Kipro (seagull),
painted her feet and eyes red, which
accentuated her beauty to such an
extent that the seagulls copied her
and have red eyes and feet to this
day. The dance was a famous suc-
cess. but the men had eyes only for
the bodily beauty of the women and
their litheness of movement. After
the dance the men asked the women
to exchange with them everything
on their bodies. The women con-
sented. and finally handed over
their beards, moustaches and the
bodily characteristics now pertain-
ing to men, and took the breasts
of the men in exchange to add to
their own. They also took away
many privileges, for the restoration
of which men have since waged un-
ceasing war.
“Two Seas”: Willy wagtails love to
annoy our cat by perching on its back. They
have done this often, and always with
impunity; and the other day I saw one
alight on the back of a kookaburra in mid-air
and steal a ride. The kooka. pulled up on
our fence to inquire “Whaffor?” Willie
hopped into a bush and declined to argue
about the fare.
* * * *
“Jimmy Possum”: “I admit there’s big
snakes up in North Queensland,” said Ole
Bill, as we sat in camp one rainy afternoon,
“but th’ biggest ever I seen was a carpet at
the edge uv a small patch uv brigalow near
Gayndah. He wds a whopper. Me an’
Jimmy the Liar was ridin’ through a patch
uv blady grass when we seen what we
thought waz an ole-man bottle-tree layin’ on
the ground. ‘Betcher fourpence I can jump
me horse over that log,’ says Jimmy, an’
away he goes at a gallop. He cleared it all
right, but when he looks back he nearly falls
orf his horse. The log waz the whopperest
carpet-snake ever you seen, an’ it had its
ugly big head up. an’ was flickerin’ a forked
tongue 7ft. long. We took t' ’im with our
whips, an’ then with saplin’s, but we might
as well uv tried ter knock spots orf the moon.
We’d ’a’ never killed ’im if Jimmy hadn’t
’a’ thought uv the cross-cut saw. We sawed
’is flamin’ head orf! Yes, an’ when we cut
’im open there was the two missin’ bullicks
inside an’ four dead dingoes. Yer see, the
GOOD TO THE LAST GASP.
“Cigarettes, sir? Yes, sir. Plain or cork-tipped?”
“Plain, mon. I hate the smell o’ burrnt cork.”
snake went ter sleep with ’is mouth open
after he gobbled the bullicks, an’' the dingoes
went in after a feed. Their scrappin’ woke
up the ole boy, an’ when he closed ’is mouth
that was the end uv ’em. We got a quid
each for their scalps, an’ five bob for the
snake’s skin, so we did all right out uv it.”
* * * *
“Lagani-Namo”: Whilst traversing the
I-oloipa, a tributary of the St. Joseph River
(Papua), the Government exploring patrol
met a widow who, in place of the “weeds”
of civilisation, was bedecked with all the
anatomic structure of the late lamented
husband. The vertebrae hung in a cum-
bersome necklet down the front, with the
tibias suspended crosswise, the armlets,
waistband and leg strings being decorated
with the rest of the skeleton. The lady
rattled like a jazz band at every movement,
and regarded the noise as the talk of her
departed mate. As this was the first meet-
ing between the Government and the savages
thereabouts, and interpretation was difficult,
it could not.be ascertained how the lady had
cleaned up the relics, though from the
various indications it appeared as though she
had boned, scraped and boiled the remains.
❖ ❖ :Sc
“Mako”: We had an old black cat who
was an expert fisher. Her method was to
go each day to a tiny creek with a sloping-
sandbank just covered with water. Down
this sandbank small freshwater trout could
slip with ease, but coming back they had
some difficulty in negotiating the shallows.
Here sat puss with watchful eye and
ready paw, and at the first hesitation the
small fish was deftly clawed and flung on
the bank. The cat always caught more
than she could eat and littered the bank with
fish. But although she tried to teach relays
of kittens, she remained the only fishing
enthusiast in her family.
x x x *
“Jigger”: Tell “Yufu” (B. l/12/’27)
that there are plenty of wild birds even
closer to the Sydney G.P.O. than he states.
In the grounds of the University I have
seen galahs, a few lories, some wild pigeons
and a number of birds known locally as
“crested warblers” —they are about as big
as a starling, with a tuft on top of the
head, and possess a very sweet trill. The
number of trees and the quietness make them
feel quite at home.
“Sea Nomad”: A custom amongst the
Torres Islanders, though not invariably
followed, is for a widow to become the pro-
perty of her deceased husband’s brother. I
know one unfortunate man who thus in-
herited a shrew, and it cost him the whole
of his banana patch to bribe a fool to marry
her. Widows amongst various island groups
are generally married by honest but poor
men, for here, as under civilisation, econo-
mic conditions bear heavily on love’s affairs.
A young girl’s parents ask a heavy price
for her, but a widow, especially with a
large family, can be had cheap. _ Under
native custom, the marriage of a widow is
a highly dramatic affair. The ceremony is
always conducted in twilight and most of
it in intense silence. The spirit of the
dead husband is impersonated by his best
friend on earth. In one ceremony I witnessed
the flitting figure of the best friend was so
wonderfully dressed that his body was hard
to glimpse among the shadows and patches
of tree-thrown light. He constantly appeared
just behind the widow. At the finish of
the ceremony ( lanagud ) the spirit faded
away and the widow wailed for the last time
for her lost husband. I’ve seen the new hus-
band’s eyes protruding like door-knobs on
such an occasion.
* * * *
“Scran” : Here is a bit more evidence that
some birds poison their young. I found a
butcher-bird’s nest and appropriated the
three young ones in it. A few hours after
I had installed the chicks in a cage on the
back verandah the old birds came and fed
them. When they had gone I went out in
time to see one fall off the perch and die.
It was then I remembered the old yarn, and
when later the birds came back I watched
them closely, and saw ma drop what
appeared to be a large spider into the mouth
of a youngster. It wasn’t long before one
of the chicks showed signs of distress, and
after sundry shudders and tremblings it fell
off the perch and died. I couldn’t swear
that the bird receiving the spider was the
one that died, but it looks like it, as the sole
survivor is doing well and seems quite
healthy.
* ❖ sfs H*
“Up North”: Old Maino, mamoose of
Yutu and Yam islands, was for years Sir
William Macgregor’s orderly. The old chap
tells how cannibals found a white man’s
boots the toughest things they had ever put
teeth into. When the body was cooked
(with the boots on) they left the brogues
until last. Marvelling how the deceased
had contrived to make his feet so tough,
they roasted the boots again in the kop-
maori oven ; then again for 24 hours. Next
time they tried them with sago as a softener,
and yet again with bananas and native
fruits. They were still trying to cook the
articles when a punitive expedition arrived
some three weeks after the feast.
% * * *
“Malo”: I know a little about tropical
ants and would not question “Tliomo’s”
statement (B. l/12/’27) that in Siam com-
munities of them build houses by folding
over the foliage of trees and finally plaster-
ing the leaves together. The bending of the
stiff leaves is accomplished gradually. The
silken ladders give only sufficient pull to bend
the leaves slowly, and are resilient enough to
prevent straining. I think the “overseer”
referred to was just an extra ant. There
is always a surplus of workers, and within
their own divisions all seem equally skilled.
The silk thread is spun by the baby ants,
while in the larva stage. What appear to be
ants’ eggs are really elongated cocoons
which the larvm have made for themselves.
The larvae are taken by the adults before
they spin, and are held in position for
spinning thread, other ants holding the
edges of the leaves at each side. The larvae
are moved along, spinning as they go, and the
adults fasten the leaf edges together with
the sticky thread. This also is the thread
that was used for the ant ladders referred
to, and the babes must have been carried to
the top of the leaves before the silk was
spun. They were made to fasten the thread,
and were then dropped into the nest as' the
line ran from the spinneret. The surplus
thus produced was cut into lengths for
rungs.
YARNS AROUND THE CAMP-FIRE.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Where camp-fires burn by lonely tracks,
And horse-bells wake the night;
Where nomads squat beside their packs
In river-bend and bight,
They tell the old bush stories still,
As they did long ago,
From Bogan Gate to Mannaliill,
From Bourke to Tallyho.
Of record loads that teamsters drew;
The marvel with a gun;
The giant tree that axemen slew
(It fenced a cattle-run) ;
And, wandering by fen and bog,
Or where red cedar’s won,
The big shake that was like a log
A swagman sat upon ;
The stockwhips of the men out back,
Whom glory-graves enshroud,
With mighty swing and thunder-crack
That burst the passing cloud ;
The monster fish that got away ;
Lost reefs and rushing kine;
The outlaw prad that bucked all day,
And “that there dog o’ mine.”
The yarns they swapped in shed and hut,
Along the Cuttabri,
Of mighty tallies that were cut
Are yarns that never die.
Though blade-kings now the clippers spurn,
Like sickle knights of old,
They muster where the camp-fires burn,
Mid storied lumps of gold.
HAVING FOUND A QUIET SPOT , HE
The “good old times” and grand old sires
Seem spectred in the smoke,
As battlers tell their mates’ desires,
With quibble, jest and joke.
And ever as the nights roll by,
In genial company,
They mingled on the Marthaguy
And down along the Bree.
The haunted hut that none would brave,
The headless horseman, too,
Are jumbled with the shanty knave,
Newchum and jackeroo ;
And ’long the highways Cobb and Co.
And Binghi’s hosts return,
As round and round the stories go
Where’er the camp-fires burn.
N.s.w.
E. S. SORENSON.


MAN
NEWS
Indian Pith
Light and cool-well
ventilated—healthy-
and a real treat to
wear during the hot
siege of Summer. All
Sizes. White Drill
and White Puggaree
‘Calcutta’
Helmet
18/6
Tosp~ tyrees
Write Desk S.B.
PIKE BROTHERS
LIMITED
In Queen Street, (Brisbane
Such a reputation is not won overnight
m rn-rTTTTffI
-a
+4
100% VIRGINIA CIGARETTES
10 for 9d * . , . 20 for 1/6
Major Drapkin <& Co.. London. Branch of The United
Kingdom Tobacco Co.. Ltd.
w
A TRUSS NEED NOT
RESTRICT YOU
Don’t wear a
Truss that is
u n c omfortable
and which re-
stricts you. En-
joy every free-
dom and have
dependable sup-
port by wear-
3
ing Denyer’s
Elastic Truss —the truss with the patent
Vater pad. Write for pamphlet or enclose
cacsh asi-under.
Single, 30/-; Double, 40/-
DENYER BROS.,
Makers of Trusses, Abdominal Belts and
Artificial Limbs.
Dept. 1,2 SI GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY
(Right opposite Hunter Street).
“Black Tracker” : The Beau Brummell of
the spider family is found in the Gippsland
bush. Always immaculate, it spends hours
in tittivating itself and applying a micro-
scopic brush to its legs and body. This is
particularly noticeable when it sets out on
a courting expedition. On these occasions
it does not go empty-handed. There is a
small grub which, owing probably to its
scarcity, is a spider delicacy. This sweetmeat
of the insect-world is secured by the dandy,
“STRUTH, BILL! FANCY BUYIN’ IT!”
neatly cased in silk and taken on the expedi-
tion. The gift serves as an introduction to
the lady, who in a cold, dignified fashion
turns aside. But the wooer is not discour-
aged, and in the end his perseverance is re-
warded ; the dainty morsel is devoured and
then the more serious business of life is dis-
cussed.
“Colub”: With the kookaburra and the
plover, the hawk may be put down as a
feathered slayer of snakes (B. S/12/’27). In
the Grafton district of N. S. Wales recently
one of these birds was observed to pick up
a black snake, rise with it to a height of
some hundreds of feet and drop it on some
rocks. As if this wasn’t enough to stiffen the
reptile, the bird repeated the manoeuvre
twice. Then the slayer gathered up the
evidence and removed it. This method of
killing snakes was supposed to be peculiar
to the kookaburra.
* * * *
“V.H.R.”: I have never heard it said
that there is no true Tasmanian black snake,
but “Manuka” (B. l/12/’27) suggests that
there are no true “tigers” in the Speck. 1
have killed a good many
wrigglers in various parts cf
the island, and I am quite satis-
fied that there are two distinct
varieties. In many respects the
two species are very similar, but
the belly settles the argument;
the black snake’s is white,
whereas the tiger's is striped
like a football guernsey. Rc
“Bayard’s” query about the size
of tiger-snakes, it is rare to
come across a specimen in Tas-
mania measuring 6ft., but I
know of one 6ft. 6in. that in-
traded in a house near Burnie and was
promptly put out of action.
if * *
“Samuel”: Whilst fishing in the Namoi
River (N.S.W.) last month I saw a great
set-to between a big goanna and two mag-
pies. The magpies hovered over the go. and
took it in turn to swoop down and have
a pick at him while he was breaking all
records to get to a clump of broken rocks
about 30 yards away. With a final scurry
he reached his goal, only to reappear immedi-
ately in death-grips with a snake. The fight
that followed was worth watching. In about
20 seconds the snake had every bone in his
body crushed. The goanna then made for a
tree, with the magpies still in hot pursuit.
He had not gone 15 yards when he stopped
and rolled over on his back. When I
reached him his legs were still quivering,
but he was dead from snakebite. He
measured sft. 3in. and the snake, a red-
belly, 4ft. 7in.
* * *
“Pigcat” : Reference has been made to the
brolgas’ dance as though it were a thing set
to music and ruled by steps. It’s nothing of
the sort. The dance may be a love-making
affair, but usually it is a signal to draw the
flock’s attention to something approaching.
Invariably if a mob of brolgas are on a bit
of plain they’ll jump and dance when a man
approaches. Their dance consists merely of
THE TRIBULATIONS
OF TRAKITE.
MRS. TRAKITE (her husband
has just picked up a
“used gift.”): “H’m!
What sort of car is it?”
MR. TRAKITE: “It’s a thirty-ninety, my dear.”
MRS. TRAKITE: “H’m. Cost thirty, I suppose; and’ll take another ninety to make it go!”
hopping in the air, bowing and arching necks,
a call or two and a bit of running about.
As the man draws nearer the dance becomes
more agitated. One old fellow bucks up and
down in front of his lady-love, springing high
and treading air in the process, and as lie
hits the ground bows to those about him.
Another gay rooster with blazing scarlet
and purple headgear bounces in front of
his “tabby,” bowing and scraping, whilst
the girls themselves arc rising a bit and
curtseying. That’s all the dance amounts to.
When the man gets too close in one old
fellow will run rapidly, his strides growing
longer and longer till he rises from earth ;
then the lot swing in and follow their leader.
When they land again they run for a bit
from the impetus of their flight, and, hav-
ing recovered either before or after settling
their ruffled plumage, they’ll do a skip or
two, yell a couple of times and bow to all
and sundry.
jji Hj
“Toonooba” : The “broom put ’im” magic
described by “Gristumas” (B. l/12/’27)
reminds me of a Torres Strait incident. In
ISSS A. C. Haddon, the present ethnological
star of Cambridge University, visited the
Strait to carry out research in marine
zoology. On Mabuiag he was shown a small
stream which, as it trickled down the hill
side, filled an upper and lower rocky pool.
The lower basin, he was told, was for com-
mon usage, while the upper Avas reserved for
old or distinguished men. The penalty for
infringement of the rule was the infliction
of premature greyness. Haddon, then a
young man, asked if he might ‘ drink from
the upper pool. After solemn deliberation
permission was granted. Apparently lie was
presumptuous, for within a couple of years
he possessed a snow-white thatch which
proved somewhat embarrassing when he re-
visited the island as leader of an ethnological
expedition.
* * ft *
“Lily-Beale”: I nominate the spider as
Nature’s best weather prophet. It cannot
spin well in a high wind and therefore
strengthens its web before a gale breaks.
When the frame lines are short and stout
instinct has told the spider that wind and
rain are coming, while long and slender
frame-lines betoken fine weather. If the
insects begin mending their webs during a
summer evening there will be no rain that
night. When they are seen crawling on walls
wet weather is imminent.
* * * #
“Toonooba” : Before the discussion on cro-
codiles ends let me shatter the ridiculous
belief that their hide is bullet-proof. The
soft rubbery sheath, with its thickened bosses,
may deflect a bullet —it depends on the angle
of impact—but a leaf or twig will do the
same. The saurian’s hide assumes a great
toughness only when peeled and dried.
* * * *
“Colub”: The purplish discs attached to
the sides of “Ora’s” snake (B. 8/12/’27)
were probably a variety of fungus, which is
a kind of parasite on the snake. If un-
checked it spreads over the whole of the rear
portion of the snake’s body; but generally
the reptile gets rid of it in the way it
removes its sloughed-off skin; that is, by
crawling through a small, fork-shaped twig
whose sides scrape the stuff off. The snake
family is subject to a great variety of para-
sites, the worst a small louse-like insect
which attaches itself to the reptile and causes
emaciation and, in time, death.
Hi * * *
“James B.” : According to “The Rumpus”
(B. 3/11/’27) bees won’t sting frogs.
Here’s what I saw lately. A number of
bees were drinking at a small pool and three
frogs, seemingly asleep, were on a dump of
mud in the middle. Suddenly a frog leaped
for a bee and dived with it. In a second or
so a lioneymaker came to the top of the
water and left for parts unknown. Then
the frog appeared, looking sad. He had been
stung, for I found the sting at the root of
his tongue and yanked it out with tweezers.
His throat swelled rapidly, and when I left
he seemed almost choked.
“Vraidex”: When “Toonooba” spoke of
goats living on the islands in the Keppel
group (B. l/12/’27), he allowed them scrub
foliage. On Divided Island, a huge rock
thrust out of the sea, with two stunted
trees and (in good seasons) a little sparse
grass, there lived three goats. They ate the
grass and stripped the trees of leaves and
bark. After that they lived apparently on
air and drank sea water, for there was no
rain for months and they were there every
time I passed. Rain came lately and they
are now well supplied. What did they live
on in the meantime?
jJ* H*
“Mundowie”: “We were takin’ a mob of
ewes across a dry stage back o’ Bourke,” said
Bill the Battler, “an’ were doin’ a perish, a
hot wind havin’ dried our waterbags. I
noticed some of the sheep scamper out of a
clump of bushes, an’ when I goes in to see
what was there I finds Wombo, the blackfeller,
on his hands an’ knees refreshin’ himself from
a wet ewe that he’d caught. A good many
of tlie mob was in milk, and Wombo said it
was ‘good feller.’ I told old Joe, my mate,
about it. Joe grinned at the idea, but not
long afterwards I sees him tryin’ to do the
lamb-trick at the tail of the mob. I was
feelin’ pretty bad meself, so I ketches one at
last an’ gets down to it, after puttin’ me hat
over her eyes to keep her quiet. The milk
was a bit warm, but I can tell you it was a
good reviver. We sucked eight or nine of
’em dry before we got through.”
* * * *
“Wandi”: Many a “good shot” with a
gun is only a fluke. I know, for one day I
fired at a duck that was standing on a log
within easy range, and missed it, but killed
one that was swimming a long way out in
the swamp. A neighbor did better. He was
going towards a point of a swamp to join
his mates, who had gone round another way,
when lie shot a flying duck that looked to
be rods beyond gun range. It earned him
the reputation of being a crack shot,
whereas he was the worst shot in the dis-
trict. He had been looking at the duck,
when he bumped the gun against a sapling,
and the charge that killed the bird exploded
accidentally.
THE STICKER.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“ ’Ow is I says to Bill. “ ’Ow is
she tearin’ now?
I never see you down the toAvn, or ’ear you
mailin’ a row.”
’E looks at me in ’is knowin’ way (doesn’t
it make you smile!)
“She ain’t too flash to date,” ’e says, “but
I’m ’angin’ on yet awhile.”
That’s ’im all over; ’e never knows when
it’s time to turn it in,
Always reckons the bloke who sticks is the
bloke who’s goin’ to win.
Silly old cove with the one idea—simple
old codger-—still
You can’t ’elp likin’ ’im all the same, for
there’s somethin’ about old Bill.
I met Bill when ’e first came west —one of
the whitest men,
Ahvays stickin’ to somebody or somethin’ 'e
fancied then.
’E’s never done any good for ’imself, and
it ain’t likely ’e will,
But it isn’t often you’ll meet a man who
’asn’t a word for Bill.
’E’d be counted a poor old crock of a thing,
a failure in life, I guess,
By those who reckon a ’eavy wad is proof
of a man’s success.
Some will laugh at ’is silly talk of the
lode that ’e never found,
But a man was sure of a dinkum mate when
Bill was ’angin’ around.
“ ’Ow is she goin’ ?” I says to Bill. “ ’Ow
does she shape to-day?”
Not of course that I didn't know, but more
for somethin’ to say.
Bill, ’e gave me a knowin’ wink, and put on
’is brave old smile.
“She ain’t too flash to date,” ’e says, “but
I’m ’angin’ on yet aAvhile.”
W.A.
OSCAR WALTERS.


□
□
MUSIC SHOULD MEAN MUCH IN THE HOME
Early familiarity with good music during children’s formative years will foster their natural
musical aptitude more than any other means.
”
PLAYER
PIANO
with its glorious tone of absolute purity is a veritable treasure chest of music, unlocking for
everyone, at a mere touch of button, the world’s vast store of melody, rendered at its best.
Principal “Wurlitzer” Agents:—
NEW SOUTH WALES: Factory Representatives—Parker. Blau and Co., Ltd., 8 O’Connell Street, Sydney.
NEWCASTLE; M. Light & Son, Ltd., Newcastle and Cessnoek.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA: The Australian Implement and House Furnishing Co., Adelaide.
WEST AUSTRALIA: Musgroves Ltd,, Murray Street, Perth.
TASMANIA : J. H. Wilson & Co. Pty., Ltd., 203 Charles Street, Launceston : Findlay’s Pty., Ltd., Hobart.
VICTORIA: Myer’s Emporium Ltd., Melbourne.
Where any difficulty is experienced in procuring a “Wurlitzercommunicate direct with the factory representatives!
Parker, Blau &: Co., Ltd.,
8 O’CONNELL STREET. SYDNEY.
308 FLINDERS LANE, MELBOURNE.
SUNDRY SHOWS.
SYDNEY SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Her Majesty's “The Girl Friend”
Criterion* “A Cuckoo in the Nest”
Royal “The Terror”
Palace "Cornered”
Empire “The Film Girl”
livoli Vaudeville
M El. BO I’ll NIC SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
His Majesty’s “The Student Prince”
Kino’s “All the King’s Horses”
Royal “Queen High”
Athenaeum “The Alarm Clock”
Tivou Vaudeville
Majestic Moving Pictures
Hoyt’s Moving. Pictures
♦-
Mary Brennan, bred amongst dishonest
but kindly souls, leaves them with an earnest
desire to “live straight,” but has to contend
against the evil intentions of respectable
bosses she meets in her typewriting jobs.
That is the usual excuse for the lady who
makes the police dock foolish in “Crook"
drama when, desperately tempted, she takes
to crime again ; and naturally it crops up in
"Cornered,” Muriel Starr’s Christmas Eve
offering at Sydney Palace, Muriel, as Mary,
enters the house of the wealthy Margaret
Waring, becoming successively implicated in
a robbery, a love affair, a near murder and a
battle of wits with the police, said events
being due to a startling resemblance between
Mary Brennan and Margaret. It is compara-
tively easy to guess the new complication
that is coming every time the telephone
tinkles, but the action of the drama is brisk,
and the third act gripping. To extricate
his heroine from her difficulties the author
has to throw in some thought-reading busi-
ness, which isn’t particularly convincing.
* * *
The dual impersonation by Muriel Starr
of the lady crook and the wealthy woman
supplies the major interest of the play. The
actress adroitly manages to let the audience
know which of the two women she is sup-
posed to be whilst keeping the stage charac-
ters as bewildered as the plot demands,
ilarvey Adams is easy as an accomplished
gentleman who is a crook from choice ; B. N.
Lewin, as the drug-stricken Nick Martin,
shows a tendency to overact, while Mayne
Lynton barks his lines as stage custom de-
mands a police-chief’s lines should be barked.
Fred Coape gets a special opportunity as
-the faithful Brewster, who is not faithful
enough to distinguish Mary Brennan from
his mistress, Margaret Waring, and uses it
well; and Ellis Irving is a satisfactory
lover. Beatrice Day is excellent as an
elderly lady suffering from imaginary illness ;
Katie Towers a lively keeper of the Pekin
Pleasure Palace, a new arrival, Mary Mac-
rae, chatters in a natural manner as Rose
Bellamy; and Bertha Ballenger is a French
maid when she is sure that the audience
wants to hear what she has to say.
* * # *
“The Film Girl” arrived at Sydney
Empire on Saturday, bringing with it for
liewpie Violet Elliott, a massive lady who,
after scoring two comedy hits, wins supreme
roars of hilarity by doing “the splits.” The
history of a screen-struck heiress starts with
a movie-picture studio scene in which a
film director roars directions to the players
to “get back to the kiss.” After that the
whole company is transferred to the saloon
of a Havana-bound yacht. A thin plot
runs through complications because a stunt-
ing press-agent has married the screen star
to a Cuban adventuress who wants cash or
love, or both ; but in the end the little heiress
gets her screen hero, a sentimentalist who
w’ants to be loved for himself alone. There
are some well-arranged dances and musical
numbers—“ Maybe It’s You” is due to be
whistled by the early milkman even before
this notice appears. The new piece, while
not grading up to “The Student Prince,” has
many of the ingredients which go to make
successful musical comedy.
* * *
In addition to Violet Elliott, Bobby Jarvis
'- • rks hard and, meritoriously, and Bertie
Wright as a “Raisin King” shows himself a
mail t-ray of broad comedy. Sam Stern is
a sufficiently realistic and bloodthirsty
Cuban ; Audrey Lewis and Gwen Matthews,
the Australian girls who were elevated from
the chorus for parts in “Tweekie,” arc again
the two flappers whose heart affairs provide
the main sentimental interest. Both make
up in freshness for what they lack in artistic
subtleties, and Gwen Matthews adds a pleas-
ing voice. Audrey is a midget to whom the
tall Van Lowe, the Valentino-looking star,
has to bend rather ridiculously in his love-
making. Nancy Girdwood does fairly as the
Cuban adventuress, and Edna Dare smiles
her way through as a husband-hunting
divorcee. Altogether a light, bright show.
The interest of the five short-story Grand
Guignol plays at St. James's Hall, Phillip-
street. Sydney, outweighs the stage disabili-
ties, although only two of the pieces on the
programme provide the real Grand Guignol
creeps. In "The Mask,” an old sweetheart,
returned, plans to elope with a woman whose
life with a husband bereft of most of his
face has become a horror. V hen the hus-
band returns unexpectedly there is a fight,
during which Smashed Face is believed to
be killed. Vasliti Glasson urges her now
terrified lover that lie can throw the body
down a disused mine-shaft, and, with the
aid of a mask, pose as the husband until
they leave for America. Unfortunately for
this scheme, the husband is so far from
being dead that he overhears the plot, kills
his rival and tearing off his mask goes into
the bedroom of the woman who is waiting for
her lover, her shrieks resounding as the
curtain falls. Gaston Mervale, lon Max-
well and Hilda Dorrington make this horror
a masterpiece of grimness. The other bottle
of creeps is called “The Second Ash-tray,’
because it is that article which rouses the
suspicion of a drunken husband that his
wife’s lover has been in the house. Other
ingredients in the piece are a cobra and a
bloodhound, and it ends, appropriately
enough, in a lady losing her reason beyond
cure. Two of the other offerings are delight-
ful comedies in which Floie Allen plays lead-
ing roles; and the other item, "Honor Thy
Father,” is a bitter satire. This is less enter-
taining than the others and is to be re-
placed. Gaston Mervale, lon Maxwell, Hilda
Dorrington and Floie Allen are the main-
stays of the venture; but, besides Edytlie
Cowley, Cecil Scott, Roy Herberte, Milly
Ryan and Isobel Gawler give satisfactory
assistance. The plays, with some possible
changes, will continue for a short season.
“Mother Goose,” at Sydney Grand Opera
House, represents Frank Neil’s initial
plunge into this pond; and he has the hick
to have no competition in the panto, line
inside the city proper. Spectacularly, Neil
has done the job well; “Underneath the
Sea” is particularly effective, and "Rose-
land” and the finale are well-arranged
effects. Phil Smith makes a capital Dame,
and has a bevy of humorists to assist, in-
cluding Bert Le Blanc and Ted Stanley as
Fltz and Starts, blundering hirelings of
Squire Hardflint, whom Field Fisher plays
with a rasping voice and a mouth that
opens like a fish-trap, and Neil himself, in a
blackened face and a circus-attendant’s
uniform, as Rastus. Although Dorothy
Dewar does very well as Idle Jack, the
principal-boy part might have gone better to
Lily Coburn, who makes rather more of
Trueheart; Joe Morris occupies the inside
of the valuable bird which for once in a
way doesn’t lay an egg on the stage; and
Jefferson Taite is a slightly ungrammatical
Demon Vulture who is in a perpetual state
of being foiled by Linda Foy as Fairy
Paradise. The ballets are well arranged.
To let “The Girl Friend” in on New
Year’s Eve. “Wildflowsr” will cease to
bloom at His Majesty's (Sydney) after to-
“THE STUDENT PRINCE,” AT
MELBOURNE HIS MAJESTY’S.
Doctor Engel (Hedley
Hall), and Captain
Tarnitz (Frank Webster )
morrow (Friday) night, and the sadness of
farewell will envelop Marie Burke. On
the following Friday “The Terror” will fade
from the Royal, and Maurice Moscovitch
will go touring. “Archie” has been filling
the St. James at special matinees as well
as it continues to fill it at night.
* * *
The Manufacturers’ Exhibition, which has
grown in favor during the holidays, will
have a .grand finish on Saturday night with
some extra-special attractions.
Joseph Bradley made his public adieus
in the final performance of “The Messiah ’
at Sydney Town Hall on Christmas Eve.
and, with Russell Rix making an impressive
first appearance in the year’s concerts in
the bass part, the chorus rose rather more
conspicuously than usual to the support of
the principals. At the close Mr. A. Wunder-
lich, president of the Philharmonic, paid
tribute to the departing conductor, who has
led “The Messiah” every year, with one
exception, since 1908.
* * * *
Rupert Hazel’s condensed pantomine at
Sydney Tivoli is a lively affair containing,
besides a rich sprig of comedy, a kiddies’
jazz band and some briskly-trained juvenile
dancers, pupils of Frances Scully. The
acceptable cocktail fills in an hour of the
programme; of the rest, Owen McGiveney
remains the bright star in his Dickens im-
personations.
“WILDFLOWER,” AT SYDNEY
HER MAJESTY'S.
Gaston La Roche (the legal eagle), John
Stewart; and Guido (Herbert Browne),
dancing the “Bambalina.”
“Pantomime Revels,” at Fullers, is a cross
between such things and revue. Author-
producer Jim Gerald arrays his slim form
in the gaudy colored underwear of the Dame,
Mrs. Dolly Dimples, and perpetrates most
of the jests. There is the usual interchange
of compliments between the Fairy (Mona
Thomas) and the Demon (Howard Hall),
and a riot of clowning, dancing and music.
Phyllis du Barry, though lacking the swagger
and robustness of the conventional principal
boy, scores as .Tael: Daring; and as Marjorie
Dimples, the lady courted, Betty Lambert’s
toe-tripping and warbling pass muster. The
two Hawaiians, 1 >avid and Queenie Kali,
supply a well appreciated interlude.
A huge crowd filled the Town Hall, Mel-
bourne, for the annual performance of “The
Messiah,” by the Philharmonic Society and
the University Symphony Orchestra. Oliver
King, the Sydney basso, sang beautifully,
Madame Ella Kingston’s fine soprano was
occasionally off the note, and contralto Vic-
toria Anderson was a trifle monotonous of
intonation. Bernard Hei'nze’s conducting
was not a shining example of the art. If
Handel’s gigantic oratorio is anything, it is
a dramatic work. Heinze preferred to treat
it as a religious service. The slow, melan-
choly tempo of his accompaniments fairly
threw tenor Joseph Hislop off his histrionic
legs. The chorus, “For to Us a Child Is
Born,” was taken in the same sad manner
—it might have been the 13th infant. This
was the young professor’s first attempt, so
perhaps he was feeling overawed, though, con-
sidering the liberties he took with the text
-—•notably in omitting the “Amen” chorus —
awe doesn’t seem exactly the right word.
* * * *
“All the King’s Horses,” a comedy, will
occupy all the Boucicault company at Mel-
bourne King’s on Saturday. In the mean-
time. “The Letter” will continue to be posted
nightly at the same address.
“Robinson Crusoe” is Hoyt’s Christmas
gift to Melbourne, ' and the ancient tale
seems to suffer hardly any inconvenience
at all from being rendered in the flat.
Hordes of people thirsting for knowledge
are rushing into the Majestic under the
impression that Marie Stopes has been at
last put upon the screen in “What Every
Girl Should Know.”
■!*
The new revue at Melbourne Bijou con-
tinues to present Mo, in clothes which look
as if they had been discarded by an elderly
rhinoceros, exchanging slipshod confidences
with Stilly, whose garments suggest that
he has slept in them for a week. The show,
which looks as if a brush-up and shave
would do it a world of good, is being as
rapturously received as ever.
An arrival at Melbourne Tivoli last week
was Davey Jamieson, a dancing person, on
his way from U.S.A. to somewhere or other,
and, judging by the restlessness of his feet,
in a deuce of a hurry about it. Max,
Moritz and Akka. the apes, continue to
demonstrate that their sense of humor nowise
differs from that of the average low comedian.
Fred Curran cracks chestnuts and uses a
steam-hammer to do it, and George Hurd,
Australia’s own juggler, juggles passing well.
Also the Gatanos’ revue is as popular as
ever.
After a hectic Saturday, The Bulletin’s
Melbourne Department of Dramatic Criti-
cism sits down with ice on its head to dis-
entangle its impressions of five new shows.
Of the two specimens of pantomime now
raging on opposite banks of the Yarra, this
paper speaks with more respect of the joint
effort of Richard White and Eric Edgley,
“Robinson Crusoe,” at the Princess. The
respect isn’t exactly awe and does not extend
much beyond the spectacles, which are ornate
and in some cases artistic; the lightsome-
ness of dance-nymph Phyllis Amery; the
comedy of Clem Daws as a British sailor
and the nice fluffiness of Gertie Cremer as
the leading girl. It is not extended to the
dialogue, which is too much preoccupied with
being topical to avoid being dull; and it
only covers Mabs Howarth as Robinson
Crusoe to a moderate degree. Nevertheless,
the show is full of color and noise and move-
ment and endures till past eleven, so it
deserves the lavish juvenile patronage it is
sure to get.
# * :H *
“Mother Goose,” at the Playhouse, is, on
the other hand, a comparatively simple and
unsophisticated country cousin of a panto,,
in which there is much conversation of an
allegedly-dramatic nature between Dante,
Lord of the Infernal Regions, and Fairy
Goldenloeks, the gracious if mature protec-
tress of the principal boy—Miss Nellie Ivolle
once more displays her invincible adoles-
cence in the latter role. The prices are
modest, and the freshness and vitality of
the home-grown corps of nine dancing
maidens are alone worth the money.
After an overture resembling two galvan-
ised-iron bond-stores meeting in collision,
“Queen High” got down to business at
Melbourne Royal on Saturday and the busi-
ness was shortly discovered to be less con-
cerned with music than with Cecil Kelle-
way and Barrett-Lennard. The public,
wli’ch had come to see the usual leg-and-
music show, was invited instead to watch
these two comedians quarrel through three
acts. Small portions of Leyland Hodgson
were occasionally thrown to the gallery girls,
and that popular entertainer was allowed to
chase Irene North with smile and song over
the furniture now and then ; also young
men in sac-suits and girls in abbreviated
skirts sang tunefully in chorus, and Henry
Penn and Gordon Rodda played in the
intervals on two grand pianos affectionately
interlocked; but these interruptions had
nothing much to do with the squabble.
“Queen High” was originally seen here as a
straight farce concerning two partners in a
garter manufactory who settle their differ-
ences by drawing hands at poker, the loser
to serve the other as his butler for a year.
It has since been set to music by one Lewis
E. Gensler, and the result is as above. There
is no doubt the audience on Saturday liked
the innovation though they might perhaps
not have lik'd it so much if the sufficient
Ivelleway and his hyphenated friend had not
been so thoroughly up to their job. Billie
Lockwood, incidentally, supplied some ex-
cellent comedy as a serving maid; and Roy
Russell, making his first appearance in Mel-
bourne, revealed himself as the possessor of
a tall figure and a conscientious style.
Two more farces broke forth in Mel-
bourne on Saturday. This paper recommends
“The Alarm Clock,” at the Antlienseum, with
a very fair degree of confidence. It also
calls attention to the excellent performance
of Molly Raynor as the star. With its
usual uncanny discernment, it detected the
natural-born actor-talent in this bright,
bonny and intelligent Maorilander wdien she
made her first appearance a year ago as a
moronic bush maiden in a rather feeble Aus-
tralian bush comedy at the Palace. In “The
Alarm Clock” she shows that this is not the
only item in her repertoire. The piece, which
Avery Hopwood adapted or stole from the
French, is a Daddy Longlegs story about a
country mouse who comes up to London and
fascinates with her meadow-sweet charm a
bachelor whom gout has just apprised of the
(Continued on page SJj.. )


AFTER 1932 EVERY AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURER CAN BUILD KNIGHT - ENGINED CAR
-41
X
The world’s finest type of engine
in the Falcon - Knight Six
The famous Knight double sleeve engine is recognized by
automotive engineers as the finest type of motor car engine.
The new Falcon-Knight six-cylinder engine with seven-
bearing crankshaft, is designed and built to give a su-
perior degree of performance that is always smooth and
quiet. It has a flash of pickup and instant speed not
generally found in other types of motors.
The fame of the Knight-engine is built on its record of
countless thousands of miles of service with unusual free-
dom from carbon trouble and mechanical repair—known
as “The engine that never wears out.”
The Falcon-Knight chassis throughout is designed and
constructed in keeping with the excellence of its engine.
Whether or not you contemplate the immediate purchase
of a motor car we should appreciate an opportunity to
show you the new Falcon-Knight models at our show
rooms and to take you for a demonstration drive.
Four Beautijul Body Styles —TOUßlNG —COACH—SEDAN —ROADSTER.
KNIGHT MOTORS (N.S.W.). LTD., 136 Castlereagh Street, Sydney.
KNIGHT MOTORS (VIC.), LTD., 124-26 Russell Street, Melbourne.
KNIGHT MOTORS (Q’LAND), LTD., Q.T.C. Building, Petrie’s Bight.
Queen Street, Brisbane.
KNIGHT MOTORS (S.A.), LTD., Franklin Street, Adelaide.
KNIGHT MOTORS (W.A.), LTD., 404 Murray Street, Perth.
Falcon-Knight
Missing Friends.
T'O ALICE. —Have pity for your poor girls.
A They still cry for mummy. Write at
once, urgent, 18 Holland-street, Wickham.
—PERC.
YY7ILL MRS. VERONICA ALEXANDER
vv and her son Gerald, aged six years,
formerly of Melbourne, or anyone knowing
their whereabouts, communicate with
HERBERT SMITH, Solicitor,
113 Pitt Street, Sydney.
Personal.
AUSTRALIAN ORPHANS’ SOCIETY.
YY/OULD anybody knowing of or having
** heard of the abovementioned society,
which is believed to have been at one time
situated in Glebe Road, Glebe, please com-
municate with
PERPETUAL TRUSTEE COMPANY,
(Limited),
33-39 Hunter Street, Sydney.
\Y/OULD MRS. ANNIE IRELAND, for-
” merly of Stanmore, and MRS. ETHEL
LINDA DEFRIES, formerly of Redfern, or
anyone having information regarding their
whereabouts, please communicate with
PERPETUAL TRUSTEE COMPANY,
(Limited),
33-39 Hunter Street, Sydney.
Legal Notice.
A LFRED JOHN VERGA.—Take notice
that Charles Appleton of Clarence-street
Sydney has commenced an action against
you by a Writ 1927 No. 1498 issued out of
the Supreme Court of Victoria to recover the
sum of £8946/19/11 due by you to him
under an agreement of guarantee dated the
14th day of'January 1927 and made between
you and him and to enforce the securities
mentioned in the said agreement. Your
appearance to the Writ must be entered either
personally or by your Solicitor at the Pro-
thonotary’s Office Law Courts Melbourne
within 21 days after publication of this
notice.
Dated the 29th day of December, 1927.
EGGLESTON & EGGLESTON,
143 Queen Street, Melbourne,
Plaintiff’s Solicitors.
Why men leave home
(TTj
M
m
-f
XMr
tt
if*
Mi!
//tfjerA v
/ "H*
/
ALL over the city and suburbs
you’ll find them. Men rush-
ing to business with seconds to
spare. They’ve had their breakfasts,
certainly; but the “usual” kind that
so sadly lacks balanced nourishment.
Grape-Nuts provide readily diges-
tible food elements of the highest
importance to health. And delicious!
When you taste their nut-like flavour
and experience their crisp crunchi-
ness you’ll always give them a daily
place on your table, and you’ll notice
a big improvement in energy, in vitality,
in health. Served with whole milk or
cream, Grape-Nuts make a small but im-
mensely satisfying and admirably balanced
meal. Ask for Grape-Nuts at your grocers.
Wholesale Agents:
LEWIS & CULL, 316 Pitt St., Sydney.
kĵk;kj;kl'l
Mick Simmons’
New Introduc-
tions to the
Radio World!
4K
m.\
I,
The New
fifAGNAYOX
Power Cone Speaker
(Dynamic)
Price £55
MAGNAVOX matches the finest
with this new Power Speaker.
Embracing the latest scientific
developments of the famous MAG-
NAVOX engineers, it is built on
electro-dynamic principles under pa-
tents controlled exclusively by the
MAGNAVOX Company.
All the Music in ALL its natural
beauty is possible only with this type
Speaker. Even extreme upper and
lower register fundamental notes can
come through with complete fidelity.
Volume ranges from pianissimo with-
out the slightest distortion.
Uses one 2168 and 210 Type Tube. For
connection with alternating house current, do-
ing aivay with B Batteries and B Eliminators.
Works directly from light socket.
jftfAGNAYOX
Dynamic Cone Speaker
The 4 ‘Beverley” Model,
Price £l4/14/-
The “Beverley” is also made under
the electro-dynamic principle, but is
operated by direct current from the
A Battery off any Radio Set. Entirely
different from similarly-priced
speakers. Handsome Mahogany
Cabinet with curved sides.
These speakers ivill give very wonderful
results in “Electric Phonograph” combinations
using magnetic type pick-up phonograph heads
on electrically recorded phonograph records
operating through an audio amplifier unit of
proper design, or the audio system of a receiv-
ing set,
Jf/AGNAYQX
Magnetic Cone Speaker
“Warwick” Model,
Price £7/10/-
Next to the Power Cone Speaker in
volume and purity of tone. Handles
full-power tube current without dis-
tortion. Exquisite burl walmit circle
mounted on enamel base.
Mick Simmons, Ltd.,
Headquarters:
720 Haymarket, Sydney,
“The Premier House jor all Radio
Supplies.”


Legal Notice,
JN THE SUPREME COURT OF QtfIEENSLAN D.
Matrimonial Jurisdiction.
To PHOEBE ELIZABETH IVETT formerly of Clay-
fleld Brisbane in the State of Queensland but
whose present whereabouts are unknown.
TAKE NOTICE that an action has been com-'
menced against you in the Supreme Court of Queens-
land at Brisbane aforesaid No. 752 of 1927 by
FRANK CURTIS IVETT vour husband in which he
claims a DISSOLUTION of his MARRIAGE with you
and by a Petition filed in the 1 said Court cm the
twentieth day of December one thousand nine
hundred and twenty-seven he alleges that in the
month of October one thousand nine hundred and
twenty-two you deserted him and such desertion has
been continuous up to the present time and that it
has been ordered that service of the Writ and
Petition on you be effected by fixing on the Notice
Board in the Registry of this Honorable Court at
Brisbane a copy of the said Writ and an office copy
of the Petition and by the insertion of this advertise-
ment service to be deemed effective when the last act
in pursuance of the said order has been done. If
you desire to defend this action you must within
thirty days after such service enter an appearance at
the Registry of the Supreme Court of Queensland at
Brisbane and in default of such appearance Judg-
ment may be entered against you.
Dated this twenty-second day of December 1927.
(l.s. ) W. C. WOODHOUSE,
Acting Deputy Registrar.
Leonard, Power and Power, Solicitors,
Ascot Chambers, Queen Street, Brisbane.
YOU MUST LIKE TO BE POOR
if you earn money and spend it.
Don’t!
Earning money is NOT easy, but saving is, if you’ve any
strength of mind at all.
Ensure against the future by opening a Savings Account.
The Money you save will earn Interest as long as you do
not urgently need it for any other purpose—it will be immediately
available to you when you do.
Every Post Office is a Savings Agency of the
Commonwealth lank of Australia
(Guaranteed by the Commonwealth Government.'
Radiant
Health and Vigour
by taking
SANATOGEN
The True Tonic-Food .
Sanatogen will mike you wonderfully
fresh and keen, because it contains
the source of nerve-energy—albumin
and phosphorus.
Mr. Cosmo Hamilton, the famous
playwright, says: “Sanatogengives vie
the energy to do twice as much, twice as
well. It is to the brain and nerves -
what petrol is to the engine^pp
‘ZCv/////
%////
approach of middle-age. Miss Raynor, as
Mary Kent, began in her old role of gawky
bucolicism, with its penchant for dropping
umbrellas, but later developed into a quite
sufficient reason why Frank Bradley, as
Billy Brandon, should abandon the high seas
of bachelordom for the matrimonial pool.
Another bright feature of the programme was
the excellent exchanges between Frank Brad-
ley and that competent dry comedian Basil
Radford ; and Pressy Preston was vigorously
horrid as the customary interfering female.
None of the others are very vividly remem-
bered, and Henrietta Cavendish has not the
same outlet for her humanity as she had in
“Outward Bound.” Campbell Copelin appears
as a professor of Filipino, although there is
no Filipino language, as far as this writer
is aware. “The Alarm Clock” is good genial
comedy and should keep audiences out of
bed for many nights to come.
* •>'
According to a foreword to the new farce-
comedy at Melbourne Palace, Mr. Stuart
O’Brian spent six months in Australia as
late as last December studying the theatrical
situation. He was so impressed with the
support given to the theatre in this country
that he rushed away on the wings of the
mailboat and returned with “Apples and
Pairs.” After prayerful consideration of the
boon through a long hot afternoon, The
Bulletin regretfully concludes that Mr.
O’Brian has under-rated the intelligence of
this great theatre-going land. “Oranges and
Lemons” is a vegetarian meal of amateur
suburban quality. It is a welter of talk in
a “fruit ranch” in the first act and a welter
of confusion in the same ranch in the
second; in the third the confusion and the
talk join forces, don evening-dress and ad-
journ to the drawing-room of Mrs. Trevaine,
an allegedly fascinating widow. “Goose-
berries and Limes” endeavors to appeal as
the story of three ex-soldiers struggling with
adversity and closer settlement in Canada,
and it also makes a doggy pretence of being
intellectual here and there, but the appeal
falls on the stony gi'ound of unreality and
the pretence remains a fraud ; also the state-
ment of one of the characters, two-thirds of
the way through, that “This is going to be
funny,” is plain prevarication. The imported
interpreters of “Cauliflowers and Suedes” are
far from happy in their parts. Whether
some of them could be less lugubrious in
others remains to be seen. Jack Settle in-
dulges the privileges of a producer by deliver-
ing the lines of a somewhat genuine Irishman
at full loud-speaker strength; Frederick
Mac Kay is a romantic Englishman with
marbles in the voice; Brett Randell is a
wholly insufficient humorist, and Violet Neitz
is the star. This Page lays the flattering
unction to its soul that the local Eardley
Turner, as an elderly warrior in a nice, warm
suit and a stately manner, is the most satis-
fying actor in the cast; and Dorothy Stan-
ward, a fresh-mannered girl in a small part,
made her debut in her native town.
On December 20 Nellie Bramley, in
“Anne, 100 Per Cent.,” opened for an eight-
weeks’ season at Adelaide Theatre Royal.
At the Majestic the Storyettes, led by
Charles Zoli, pursue their Rabelaisian path,
with occasional flashes of something better.
Pat Hanna’s Diggers are scoring with warm
nights at the Garden Theatre, or at all
events more than holding their own against
flying-ants and tobacco smoke.
“Santander”: “Abie’s Irish Rose” has
started a Continental career in Vienna
under the title of “Married Three Times.”
Some improving touches must have been
given to it in its German translation, for it
is being staged under the direction of Max
Reinhardt, whose productions of classical
drama and the plays of Ibsen and Shak-
speare have given him a world reputation.
Probably Reinhardt’s association with this
sloppy piece of Yankee sentimentalism has
been responsible for the enthusiasm shown
towards it in the Austrian capital.
“Csesar’s Ghost”: A successful actor
acknowledges that it was an enterprising
swindler who gave him his first contact with
the profession. When a stage-struck youth
he answered an advertisement relative to
“Golden opportunities for aspirants to the
theatrical profession.” Next day he re-
ceived a visit from a well-dressed individual
wh© explained that he represented a man-
agement which had opening for “premium
pupils,” and had put the matter in his
hands. The premium was small —a mere
£2O. The stage-struck youth’s parents paid
it. He was told to be at the theatre on
Monday. The size of the crowd indicated
that the gentleman had neen very success-
ful. As some supers and “extra people”
were to be enlisted that morning it was
some time before the position was sorted
out. At least four of those who were “had”
subsequently did well on the stage.
Poverty
Point
THE HIGHER MATHEMATICS.
MAB: “What age do you think Clarice is?”
TAB: “I don’t know—but allowing that she is twice as old as she looks she looks young
enough to be well over forty.”
“Kelby” • WhiD the hauliers are scouring
England and America for a supporting cast
for Gladys Moncrieff in “Rio Rita,” it
apparently escaped their attention that
Gawthorne is at present in Sydney,
Gawthorne bas played male lead in London
musical come dy for many years. He has a
dne baritone voice and is a first-class actor,
g_ Gle way Rjg own piece, “The Wishing
„ ( j rew crowded houses in “the provin-
ces ”’for a long while. Harriet Bennett was
j ead j U g lady: it was whilst she was play-
. j it t ] iat Wenman saw her possibilities
collected h . sr for Australia.
“Cauboy” : The Firm’s battery of big guns
for its grand-opera season will consist of
six tenors, six baritones, six sopranos, three
mezzos, three basses, two first and two
second conductors and a bass comique. “The
Squall” will be a new production next year,
but this has no reference to the foregoing—
it is only another mystery play.
“Hamfat”: Courtice Pounds, one of the
early Savoyards, a member of the very line
Royal Comic Opera Co. of 1895 —others
were Flo Young, Juliet Wray, Ilenry Bracey,
Louis Bradfield, Wallace Brownlow and
George Lauri —has taken his last call.
Charles Pounds, himself a notable actor, was
Courtice's father ; his mother was a singer,
Mary Curtice. His sister Louie was in
Australia with Qscar Asche in “Chir-Chin-
Chow.” When in these parts Courtice mar-
ried Australia’s adorable little Violet Varley,
whose early death was a great grief to him.
lie remained a widower for 31 years—he
was 65 at the end.
“C.Bj.”: Touching stage caricatures of
actors (B. 22/12/”27), there is a good one
in “The Last Warning,” just finished in
Melbourne. The ancient and dignified his-
trion puts in his application to the manager,
busy with a thousand details, and gets a
curt, “No!” His aside, as he swaggers to
the exit, “Well, that was a shor-rt engage-
ment,” always brought the house down.
“A.G.M.” (Lond.) ; “Sirocco,” another new
Noel Coward play—he must write one every
month—is appropriately named. A more
or less interesting pair have an intrigue;
passion blazes itself out, and they end by
throwing things at one another. It is the
first non-musical play staged at Daly’s for
many years. The consent of the trustees of
the late George Edwardes had first to be
obtained.
“L.11.P.” : The Royal Comic Opera Co. is
a rather venerable institution, little as the
girls suggest it. Next to the Carl Rosa and
D’Oyly Carte eos., it is the oldest thing of
its kind in the Empire. The Royal Comics
were founded by J. C. Williamson in 1879
and opened in “Pinafore” at Melbourne
Theatre in 1879. During the 48 years they
have produced two original Australian works
—Luscombe Searelle’s “Estrella,” in which
Phil Beck made a hit as the Doge of Venice,
and Alfred Hill’s “Tapu.” In the early days,
when Alice Rees was prima donna, the co.
dabbled in standard operas. It was seen and
heard in “Fra Diavolo” and “Maritana,”
among others.
“L. de It.”: George Tallis, of the Firm,
watched over 100 plays on his recent visit to
Lunnon and N’York, and selected 20 for
Australia. Of the score it is safe to say that
a fair proportion will be failures, 01 oiii\
lukewarm successes, in this country. Is there
any business more precarious than producing
plays?
“Wood’s Green” (Loud.) : The Australian
manager who wants “The Yellow Mask.”
Edgar Wallace’s latest play, will need a big
stage and a pocket to match. The thing is
a mixture of musical comedy and “crook”
drama; some of the scenes deal with a rob-
bery of Crown jewels in the Tower of Lon-
don, an attack on the Beefeaters, a seaplane
pursuing a mailboat, a parachute descent
and a weird climax of black magic in China.
The lyrics are by Desmond Carter, and the
music by Vernon Dukes, with Julian Wylie
as producer.
“Cauboy” : It is a pity Australia is only
permitted to see the him version of “What
Price Glory?” The play itself, by two young
N’York journalists, created a sensation when
staged two years ago, and G. J. Nathan
branded it as the best thing of the year.
The stark realism of its war scenes, not to
mention the blankiness of its language, prob-
ably frightened away the choosers of our
theatrical nourishment.
“Magis”: Nothing protrudes so saliently
from this annual season of goodwill as the
glaring deficiency of the Anglo-Saxon Aus-
tralian as a chorister. The lugubrious
caterwauling of the waits, the self-conscious
singing of “Auld Lang” at public meetings
and the raucous bellowings of home-return-
ing picnic parties help to illustrate the fact.
It is evidently a consequence of the proud
individualism which is the race’s boast.
Watching the Melbourne Philharmonics
singing “The Messiah” on Christmas Eve, I
was struck by the way every member, as
the saying goes, “threw” himself (or herself)
into the part. One little man with the face
of a saint obviously expected to be taken
up into Heaven at any moment. When the
Don Cossacks sang here, they stood like a
row of 40 primitive wooden statues. Not a
gleam of intelligence appeared to illumine
the mass. But their singing was a revela-
tion. They sang as one man multiplied 40
times, which is how a chorus ought to sing.
“Kelby” : Elsie Prince’s sisters are in the
new show at the London Hippodrome.
Mamie Watson is in the same cast, and
Josie Melville is understudying the lead.
London has lately contracted the habit of
giving first-class honors to Australian mum-
mers whom we suffered with mild enthu-
siasm, and of offering little to those who
have been our little gods and goddesses.
Compare the success of John Kirby. Madge
Elliott, Clarice Hardwick, Ritchard and
others with the minor importance of—
well, never mind. Is our taste at fault or
is London’s?
“Cauboy”: The Fullers are discovering,
like the Carrolls, that entrepreneurs without
a chain of theatres nowadays are like Fords
without wheels, so they are going in for
intensive building. Ben Fuller was to open
a new theatre at Christchurch on Christmas
Eve, and the same pleasing job should fall
to his lot at Auckland in May. Adelaide and
Brisbane are to be similarly blessed. These
are not to be mere clearing-houses for vaude-
ville. They are to house serious productions,
so that some day the firm will be able to
throw out its chest and call itself the Firm
—or perhaps B Firm, to avoid confusion.
“Cauboy” : When the temperature stood at
102.5 the other day a Melbourne daily sent
a reporter out with a thermometer to ascer-
tain which was the coolest public building
in town. Until he reached the Athenteum,
the Public Library held the record with 73.
Frank Talbot smiled confidently and led him
inside his little playhouse; whereupon the
mercury flopped another three degrees. When
a north wind blows every crevice in the
theatre is closed early in the morning. Just
before the evening performance the venti-
lators suck out the old air and draw in fresh,
but the walls are cool and the temperature
scarcely rises half a point. Other theatres
have installed elaborate and costly venti-
lating systems without making their interiors
a bit more comfortable during a heat-wave.
Talbot’s is an old domestic dodge he learnt
from his wife.
“L. de R.”: “Cliche’s” mention (B.
(B. 22/12/’27) of “Raight in the middle of
the Cup” recalls another gag that swept the
country about 15 years ago—“ There’s our
’ousel” Introduced by some comedian in
some musieomedy or other, it became a
favorite of all the well-fed wits. I was
motoring with one in Adelaide, and he re-
peated the devastating expression every
time we passed a prominent object. We
swept round a corner and approached a big
block of buildings enclosed in a high wall.
“There’s our ’ouse,” croaked the humorist
at the back. The girl driving stopped
abruptly and in grim silence Hung open the
door of the car. It was the Parksu.e
Lunatic Asylum. We had peace after that.
“M.G.S.” : The showing of the Crucifixion
film. “The King of Kings,” in London re-
minds me that I saw a picture on the same
theme many years ago in Rome. While it
was being unreeled I glanced round, and
was startled to see the “Christ” of the
screen quietly watching the picture from the
row behind me. Without make-up he was
a perfect replica of a thousand traditional
“portraits,” except that he wore an ordinary
sac suit and had a hard-liitter in his hand.
Later I saw him in front of the theatre
smoking a cigarette. The Italian crowd took
no particular notice.
AT THE SHAKSPEARE STATUE,
SYDNEY.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Let transient Asehes strut with noble rage
Or jocund heartiness across the stage;
Let mummers mouth their lines and take
their call,
These cunning bronzes shall outlast them all,
Speaking yet voiceless. Nought to end their
run
Or even check it save the lingering sun,
No curtain but the night! Nor do I know
But what I’d liefer take my Shakspeare so.
Here doth racked Hamlet, morn to eve,
revolve
Vain answers to the riddle none may solve;
And Portia our lady lawyers read
Lessons on what to look like when they
plead;
Here gallant Romeo, by raptures rare
Consumed, finds blooming Juliet ever fair,
And fairer that he may not sip her sweets —
A figure obviously pinched from Keats ;
Here see old Falstaff ruffle, brag and blow,
Carouse and jest, with swagging paunch
to show
The blows of capon and of sack are felt,
As one gets on in years, below the belt.
Could he but come to life, I’ll lay he’d love
To whistle his creator from above
And, as a cure for gloomy Hamlet’s rubs,
Propose a canter round the Sydney pubs.
Dash theatres! I take my Shakspeare there,
Still lifes and soundless in the open air....
I wish Mackennal, into shape who shot ’em,
Had added to his gallery Nicky Bottom.
N.SAV.
T. THE R.


r. ///!!
//VI
tpEj&pt*
the
ring
o\
du
ffict
that
gh
Id
ti° n
hi
to
tiisi
t W ar
the
rcQ
a
fof
Grea
ai't)
ba9 S ditioa
cine
re c
E*P e
s aa
nd e . s
ot
fo*
ai
tiao
Id
The
BW
ha 1
coa
ted
foiree
the
fhe
sta
in
c hes
m
u)as
ds
the
tren
s an
to
eft
dig
the
rose
des
at
\Vhat
ffici
ing
he
htg h
bag s
s i°n
de
cca
futt
loa
Ol
he
bag s
ed
use
So
ith
Red
sig n
con
as
rne r
Egp pt
ft
an
stea
s an
ot
to
then 1
PRICE
BCRRY
to Australia any mirffc logical?
/
its:
'fltufrnuT
7//C W/rM 1 Purest
SAN Dto Egypt Coals to Newcastle _ Whisky to Australia tfre principle
remains the same. Egypt’s sand is as good as any. Newcastle coal is second
to none. Australian whisky has no superior. And Australian whisky means
OLD COURT Whisky.
OLD COURT claims to be the world’s purest. It has earned the right to that
claim. In the paSt few months OLD COURT issued a £lOOO challenge to any
who could prove it otherwise. The challenge has never been taken up.
The non acceptance of the challenge has reacted in favor of OLD COURT Whisky.
Sales have grown and grown. But many Australians have yet to learn that the
whisky distilled in Australia is as fine in quality as the best imported. They are
those who have never tried OLD COURT.
Despite Old Court’s increasing popularity, Australia lost £1,875,000 last year by
drinking imported whisky. Why let this waste continue? Why let prejudice
affect both national industry and individual pocket? Shipping sand to Egypt and
whisky to Australia are equally illogical.


HOUP-LA ABDULLA!
TIGHTROPE DANCERS
Like the Tightrope Dancers of the Circus we travel pre-
cariously along the Tightrope of Life.
Hesitating, posing, swaying, we taste the thrills of glorious
uncertainty, and evolve fantastic steps from sheer delight.
For us, as for the Circus Dancers, a contrasting touch of
complete security is to be found in Abdulla’s fascinating
Cigarettes.
The delicious aroma of an always-to-be-relied-upon
Abdulla buoys us up once more with an enchanting sensation
of poise and balance.
ABDULLA superb CIGARETTES
TURKISH EGYPTIAN VIRGINIA


Firearms Sent C.O.D,
THE 1927
22-CAL.
WONDER
RIFLE.
The Walther. It is a single-shot, a
repeater and an automatic all in one;
bolt action, magazine holds 5 long-rifle
cartridges (10-shot magazines, 7/0
extra). 25in. barrel, weight 6flb. Price
£6/12/6 Post Free. The same rifle
fitted with Zeiss Telescopic Sight, £l4.
• 21in. groups at 100 yards.
Write for Illustrated Catalogue.
SIL ROHU (Late A.1.F.),
Gunsmith and Importer of High-grade
Firearms,
110 b Bathurst Street, Sydney.
’Phone: Citv 2590.
AUSTRALIA’S BEST.
RESCH’S
LAGER, DINNER ALE,
PILSENER & STOUT.
RESCH’S BITTER ALE
AUSTRALIA'S BEHT BITTER.
Western Australian Distributors:
BURNS, PHILP & CO., LTD., PERTH AND GERALDTON.
HARVEY’S “SPECIAL” Whisky
MELLOWED BY AGE ALONE.
Sole Agents: RESCH’S, LTD., Redfern, Sydney.
[2
W. W. GREENER
GUNS
ARE SURE KILLERS
Wholesaale Representatives:
W. P. THOMPSON & CO. PTY, LTDI
405 Lonsdale Street, Melbourne,
SPORTING
NOTIONS
Under the Whip
The A.J.C.’s Christmas meeting at Rand-
wick furnished some fine sport, and though
the threat of rain kept people away on Mom
day—only a few drops fell, after all —the-
attendance and tote figures showed some im-
provement on the corresponding meeting last
year. Weight of money made Don Moon a
5-to-2 favorite for the Villiers Stakes, and
when he was running strongly behind Lady
Buekingbar (8 to 1) and Bravado (12 to
1) as they shot into the straight, his
backers rejoiced. But he is only a little
chap and the task of giving 171 b. to the
bottled-up Lady Buckinbar proved too much
for him. However, he hung on so long that
Lady Buckinbar was “all out” when Zuleika
(S to 1) challenged, and that mare beat her
by a head, Don Moon being half a length
away. Honan, Beauhania and Bravado (an
early winner) were next; the time, lmin.
37sec., was a record for the race. Zuleika
is owned by Dick Wootton, who brought her
from England; she was ridden on this
occasion by W. Kelso’s apprentice Coutts—
one of Richard’s own boys has hitherto had
the mount —and Coutts was seen to advant-
age in an exciting finish.
Vitality, another from England, repeated
Dainty Davie’s feat of winning the Holiday
Handicap on the first day and the Summer
Cup on the second. Vallino (5 to 2) was
preferred to him in the Holiday Handicap,
Vitality being at sixes along with Prime
Don; but the big son of Buchan-Lania,
making light of his 9st. 51b., won brilliantly,
Bacchus (20 to 1) cutting Vallino out of
second place. For the Summer Cup Vitality
saw 6 to 4 and Bacchus 3 to 1; at the
close of operations it was 15 to 1 bar two,
although there w*ere 14 starters. Bacchus
was last most of the way and did not
materially improve his position in the
straight; Vitality, on the other hand, was
always in a good place, and when McCarten
drove him to the front a furlong and a half
from home the race was over. Tibbie (25
to 1), coming with a late run, got within
half a length of him, but the English horse
could apparently have gone a bit faster had
it been necessary—this although he left the
13 furlongs behind in 2min. Msec. Re-
source (16 to 1), who looked dangerous at
one stage but was troubled by the last
furlong, was third and Wedding Eve fourth.
Vitality is trained by Fred Williams for
W. C. Douglas and T. A. Murdoch, M.L.C..
and is now showing his owners a good
profit on the 4000 guineas they gave for
him. He should fetch a good deal more than
that for stud purposes if he never wins
another race, for he is fashionably bred and
is a big, mettlesome fellow, though not
exactly handsome.
John “Baron” bred and owns the smartest
two-year-old saddled up at the meeting—-
Elizabeth March, by March Along (imp.)
—Quairneta. Though burdened by a 71b.
penalty for her recent success at Warwick
Farm, “Baron's” chestnut, who went out
at fives, finished too strongly for Black
Douglas (8 to 1), Golden Music (5 to 2)
and Gold Tinge (5 to 1), and galloped the
five furlongs in 594 sec. Gold Tinge, who
divided third place with Golden Music, had
won a handicap on the first day with
Bst. 131 b. Other winners who left (lie im-
pression that success will come their way
again before long were Yiolian (8 to 1) in
the Trial Handicap, Lasboo (3 to 1) in the
Highweight Handicap (he won by six
lengths with 191 b. more than Zuleika car-
ried in time only j.sec. worse) and Don
Panther (7 to 2) in the A.J.C. Handicap.
As generally happens at Randwick, most of
the results were in favor of MeShortodds,
and that gentleman took few chances. On
a straiglitout tote Vitality would have
returned 3 to 1 as against the ring price
of 6 to 4.
* * =i-- *
For the Tatt.’s Club meeting at Randwick
on Saturday and Monday
Carrington Stakes: Lesboo; next, Clirys-
tal.
Pace Welter: Bravado ; next, Quan Tart.
Denman Handicap: Wedding Eve; next,
Buchanan.
Tatt.’s Club Cup: Honan ; next Tibbie.
:Ji i\i $ ❖
Many punters got the loan of some Christ-
mas silver at Moonee Valley on Saturday;
every ivinner was well backed. Sans Culotte
(G to 4), a Woorak filly trained by Cecil
Godby for A. D. Guthrie and Philip Russell,
made an excellent impression in the Maiden
Plate; she won, pulling up, in lmin.
for a mile. Betting on the Laluma Handi-
cap was of the sort that McSliortodds loves,
Spearset, Brigadier Bob and Phocion going-
out at 5 to 2 apiece. Brigadier Bob, who
ALWAYS A CATCH IN IT.
FLUBBE: “So your betting system was a dud, what?”
DUBBE: “Not at all, old prune, not at all. It would have turned me in a fortune if
the bally Tommies hadn’t insisted on my payin’ when I lost”
is owned by E. M. Pearce, won very easily
from Phocion and Jack Shepherd (14 to 1),
and ran the 10 furlongs in 2min. ssec. He
is very well just now. Broadblade (3 to 1),
a speedy sprinter from the country* landed
the Kiata Handicap from Donace (3 to 1)
and Bounteous (5 to 1) ; a protest alleging
interference w r as dismissed.
* * * *
The people who race Textile must now
regret that they did not give him a longer
spell. They came at him again for the
Holiday Handicap at Caulfield on Monday
and left their money in the bags. So did
the crowd behind Bunkie, who was favorite
at 9 to 4 (Textile’s price was fours) ; and
Bunkie’s backers had a bad run for their
brass, as he was galloped on and had to be
pulled up. Sun Morn (5 to 1), finishing very
fast after getting a bad run, won a great
race by half a neck from old Brown Rajah
(25 to 1), Bard of Avon (15 to 1) being
half a head away and Valwyne a very close
fourth. Sun Morn, who ran very well in the
Caulfield Cup, is a four-year-old stallion by
Australian Sun —Jessie Lewars; he is owned
by T. Shillito and trained by G. Delaney
(who broke a long run of bad luck), and
Bastian had the mount. Sun Morn is in
the Bagot Handicap, and looks like being
very hard to beat. Holt’s stable went for
another plunge on Highland in the Christmas
Handicap, the Queensland gelding being
backed from eights to twos. He ran like
the honest horse he is, but the St. Anton
filly Lady Beth (0 to 1) was too smart for
him at the weights. Sans Culotte (6 to 4)
showed that her Valley victory was no fluke
by making every post a winner in the Koor-
nong Welter.
The progressive Port Adelaide Club lias
no reason to repent having given £lO9O for
its Christmas Handicap and £4500 for the
Port Adelaide Cup. The crowd at Chelten-
ham on Saturday is estimated at just on
36,000 —at least 1000 more than the attend-
ance at Randwick. The Translator people
took their much-travelled horse across the
border for the Christmas Handicap, and
Scobie's stable was represented by Rubus
(The Welkin—Celosia) and Trivalve’s
brother, Treylon. Rubus was favorite, and
his backers were on good terms with them-
selves when they saw him hop out smartly
and set up a useful lead. But, in spite of
Lewis’s efforts, the colt ran wide entering
the straight and Tolien, slipping up on the
inside, beat him by a length or so in the
creditable time (for 64 furlongs) of lmin.
194 sec. The divs. (for £1) were £26 4s. and
£1 Is. Tolien is trained by C. A. North-
way for A. Calnan and was ridden by Mules.
He is a six-year-old gelding by that great
old sire Pistol out of Althien.
»!• •!’ V
Neville Percival, who can get any amount
of riding in Sydney these days, went back
to Westralia for the Perth Cup meeting, and
paid the expenses of his journey on the first
day of the meeting, when he had the mount
on Hint in the Derby. Hint, who is a
daughter of Night Hawk, English St. Legor
winner and sire of Night Heron, went out
favorite at twos, and came home on the bit
from Serbury, the second favorite, and Chila-
bong, an outsider. Jolly Odd (12 to 1)
caused a surprise by downing Maple, the
Perth Cup favorite, in the Perth Stakes,
w.f.a.; then, to shew it was no accident, he
captured the Railway Stakes, in which he
had 9st. 61b. on the second day. Jolly Odd
is by Jolly Beggar—Oddlace.
M.Q. (and Rafferty) Rules
By way of celebrating Christmas, presum-
ably, Sydney Stadium actually staged a
scrap between two Australians, Vic. White
(7st. 611 b.) and Roy Baker (7st. 61b.), on
Monday night. The pair had met previously,
the decision being a draw; this time White
won an attractive 15-round go on points by
a good margin. Baker dropped him in the
ninth, but Vic. came back so fiercely that
Raker was second-best till the finish, though
he made a desperate effort for a knockout
in the last round.
* * *
“The Marquis”: I remember one night at
the Sydney Amateur Gymnastic Club when
“Griffo” got a rich “shower” for a marvellous
exhibition spar of four rounds. His share
was over £l5; Captain Morse of the Ala-
meda contributed a fiver and some loose
silver. As the featherweight started to leave
the premises he was mobbed in the long
entrance hall by larrikins from the Rocks
and the Point. In the bar he paid for drink
after drink, and what didn't go in beer was
distributed in gifts to the cadging horde.
He was “broke” when they had done with
him, and walked home. He was to be the
easy-going victim of many more attacks of
the kind during his racketty career.
* * * *
In his early days in the ring
I.os Darcy was a victim of the shortsighted
management and stupid matchmaking which
have kept so many Australian boxers in the
ruck. After a couple of fights at the New-
town Olympia, he was dropped like, an old
boot. For his first appearance at the Stadium
the proprietary, with very bad judgment,
chose the guileful Fritz Holland as the 18-
year-old boy’s opponent. The experience
was recalled years later when the inex-
perienced Edwards was stacked up against
the older and heavier “Sunny Jim” Williams.
More fortunate than Edwards, Ees went 20
rounds with the cunning veteran, and was
adjudged the loser on points. In their next
meeting Darcy was winning “on the bit”
when Fritz drew him into a foul —it would
have passed to-day with a sneer—in the
eighteenth round. Les. got it all back when
lie easily outpointed the American in a
third meeting, and knocked him out in a
fourth fight at Melbourne.
Footbrawl
“Kingsland” : It has been amusing to note
the varying opinions of the Waratahs in
the sporting columns of British papers as
the tour progressed. First they were full
of promise, and probably a first-class side.
After those tough battles in the Midlands
critics were not so sure. When Oxford beat
them they were obvious duds. In Scotland,
their “rather vigorous methods” were
roundly condemned, while the appearance of
their line-umpires in shorts and white jerseys
almost brought about the intervention of the
Free Kirk. The success of the second visit
to Wales has put the team at the top of the
barometer again. T. 11. Vile, described as
“Britain’s senior Rugby referee,” says that
no more attractive playing combination has
visited Britain, and that in character and
bearing the men are perfect pets. “T. 11.”
should speak with some authority, for he
was one of the finest half-backs who ever
wore the scarlet jersey of Wales. With his
equally brilliant co-worker. Percy Bush, he
visited Australia -with tin' British team of
1904.
The Ins and Out?
The N.S.W.-Victoria match gave Ponsford
a chance to amass another huge score. He
made 202 out of his side’s first innings total
of 355, Woodfull compiling 99. McNamee
went through the remainder of 'the side in
short order, ending with the fine figures of
7 for 77. N.S.W. responded with 367,
Andrews (110) and Morgan (93) distin-
guishing themselves; Ironmonger (5 for
108) was in rare form with the ball. The
home side went for the runs in their second
knock, and had 7 for 386 on Tuesday morn-
ing, when it declared. Woodfull scored 191
n.o. at a brisk rate —for him; Ponsford got
38 and Hendry 59. Everett took 3 for 66. A
time-limit which causes the Tics, to bat as
they did on Monday deserves three hearty
cheers. Morton, by getting Morgan and
Phillips, the opening batsmen, for 4 each,
put N.S.W. up against it.
* * * *
South Aus., after a bad start against
Queensland at Adelaide —4 were down for
105 —saw the colts come to the rescue,
particularly Ryan (86) and Alexander
(84), and the last wicket fell at 471. It
proved to be a winning score, for Queens-
land’s first innings brought only 256, Grim-
mett taking 5 wickets for 86. Folio wing on,
Queensland made 315 (Grimmett 5 for 101).
Lionel Oxenham (61) in the first innings
and Thompson (61) and Nothling (67) in
the second hand did best with the bat.
* * * *
The Tasmanians did well to head a strong
N.S.W. XI on the first innings at Sydney.
N.S.W. was dismissed for 214 (Watson 46).
Burrows, who bowls fast-medium, got 4 for
59. The lads from the Speck reached 272;
Martin’s 43 and Newton’s 53 were made in
capital style, and the last-wicket stand by
Henty (51) and Wardlaw (42 n. 0.) was
appreciated by a sporting crowd. None of
the N.S.W. bowlers impressed. Sydney’s
second attempt realised 323, Steele batting
nicely for 111; Burrows took 2 for 71.
Henty, the Tassie ’keeper, caught five and
stumped one in the two N.S.W. innings.
Bert Barry, the English sculler, turned the
tables on Major Goodsell at Vancouver,
winning by 10 lengths in 21min. 4sec. He
may now call himself world’s champion, as
did his uncle before him.
(Continued on page 38.)
ANOTHER SEASON.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Gone is the uproar of the spring
From tree and track, from course and
shore;
But birds —and “books”—are carolling
Their endless lays; and I, who swore....
I listen now to their summer score
And wonder if, for the same old air,
The piper’s pay is less —or more !
How will the bets of summer fare?
Gone are the chances of the. spring;
Closed to us now its golden store ;
But summer hopes are burgeoning
And riper judgment we explore.
When on performances we pore,
Convinced of a more certain flair
For picking ’em than e’er before —
How will the “certs” of summer fare?
Gone are the prophets of the spring
Of knowing look and curious lore ;
Like husky ghosts of their whispering
New voices tell the tales of yore:
“Yair! Did ’is mile in forty-four
Las’ Tuesday, and ’ad lots t’ spare.
A moral!. .. . An’ the favorite’s sore”....
How will the “oil” of summer fare?
Envoy.
Yes ! Yes! To give them up I swore
When other seasons left me bare;
But, listen now—don't be a bore! —
Flow will the “certs” of summer fare?
VICTORIA.
HASEN.


w
mm
mm
ssss
.
The Angler s Paradise
—Everything but the Fish
That is a slogan applicable only to Hartleys. Here’s
what a competitor in Hartleys’ Angling Championship
said in reply to a query from an angler close handy:
“Hartleys are just great. They stock everything. No
matter what you want —from a fish-hook to a Hardy
‘Tournament’ rod—Hartleys have it, and their prices
—-well, they are good enough for me.’’ Don’t you
think Hartleys is good enough for you?
COUNTRY READERS.
It pays to shop by post. Your orders will receive
prompt attention and we will guarantee you get the
best tackle at prevailing city prices. Remember
Hartleys as “The Sporting House which gives a
Sporting Deal.”
m
272 Flinders St., 148 Swanston St., Melb.
SIMONIZ KLEENER
quickly removes all dullness,
traffic fumes and blemishes.
It restores the car’s original
color and prepares the surface
for Simoniz; 2/6 small, 5/-
large.
s *an
aa
ouco
SIMONIZ
imparts a dustproof protecting
finish of exceptional lustre,
from which dust, dirt and mud
splashes are easily wiped with-
out scratching; 2/6 small, 5/-
large.
SIMONIZING IS THE ONLY WAY
to Dry Clean and Protect all Fine Finishes.
DUCO LACQUER VARNISH ENAMEL.
Simoniz and Kleener are sold by every good motor
house in Australasia.
Motorite Equipments Pty., Ltd.,
213-5 Queensberry St., Carlton, Melb.
Please post me
FREE SIMONIZ OUTFIT,
containing Simoniz and Kleener for trial on my car.
NAME
ADDRESS
Bulletin, 22/12/’27.
as
mMQkii
C /Hotorists^Wise
SIMONIZ
BETTER THAN A POLISH
Restores
the Luster
Keeps
Colors from
FADING
The finish of the Sheffield Shield game
between N.S.W. and South Aus. at Adelaide
was exciting enough for anything. It looked
2 to 1 on the Welshmen after their first-
innings score of 519, but South Aus. replied
with 481 and then dismissed the visitors for
150, Grimmett getting the splendid figures of
8 for 57. Needing 189 to win, South Aus.
suffered at the hands of McNamee (5 for 53).
and when stumps were drawn that day had
compiled only 121 for six wickets. With 68
to get next morning on a wicket that had
crumbled a bit after the heavy scoring, the
Adelaide men seemed up against it, but Whit-
field (17), Lee (27 n. 0.) and Scott (14)
batted valiantly. When “Scottie’s” wicket
(the ninth) fell, the side needed four runs.
Williams, a rabbit with the bat, survived a
ball from Mailey. Lee faced McNamee, and
the second ball cannoned off his foot to the
unguarded boundary, the batsmen running-
four byes. Then hats went up, and the on-
lookers, who had been dumb with suspense,
found their voices. Grimmett, who made 43
and 32 with the bat at critical stages,
besides going through N.S.W. in its second
innings, was the hero of a memorable match.
* * * *
“Tenth Slip”: W. H. Ponsford is truly a
run-getting freak. Taking Sheffield Shield
games alone, he has made 1271 runs in 12
innings (twice n. 0.) against N.S.W.; 1236 in
16 innings against S. Aus.; and 964 in five
innings against Queensland. In all Sheffield
games he has batted 33 times (twice n. 0.)
and has made 3471 runs, av. just on 112.
It is a great record, but whether this playing-
for-keeps game really helps cricket is argu-
able. Ponsford himself has told how, during
his two-days’ sojourn at the wickets against
(Queensland, he received a full-pitch to leg,
but let it pass, fearing that the soft thing
was a trap. One can’t imagine Macartney
or Kippax or the late Harry Graham being
as cautious as that. And will the game be
worth a rap if staying in for eight or ten
hours becomes a habit?
* * * *
“Old Q.”: The Queensland cricketers must
have felt something like the eagle who recog-
nised one of his own feathers on the arrow
that had drilled him when the side’s attempt
to make a draw of the game with Victoria
at Melbourne was frustrated by Ironmonger,
who got 5 of them in the second innings
(407) for 88. It is just 17 years since Iron-
monger represented the northern State
against Victoria in Melbourne; in that match
A. Kenny scored two centuries for Victoria.
One of Ironmonger’s victims in last week’s
game was Lister, but the Townsville man
made 43 very attractively. And it was his
first match on a turf wicket —in fact he had
never seen a turf wicket till he left N.Q. on
his present tour.
*.* * *
“Tenth Slip” : The N.S.W. Cricket Associ-
ation has had the hide to ask the Board of
Control to reconsider the decision to play
one of the Test matches at Brisbane, alleg-
ing that the wickets in Queensland are
dreadful and that the reduction of charges
by the Queensland Association is not to be
endured. The Queensland Association’s reply
is that its charges are higher than elsewhere
in Australia, and that the wicket used against
N.S.W., full of runs as the Queensland bats-
men found it, is not the one reserved for the
Test match. In view of the fact that N.S.W.
struck a deteriorating wicket in its second
disastrous knock in Adelaide, it is a fair
thing to assume that a protest will now be
lodged against Adelaide Oval as being unfit
for Tests. When the Melbourne C. C. can
be eliminated by the same process of reason-
ing all the Tests will have to be played in
Sydney. Then, I suppose, Ma will be happy.
/ -I* *!• V
“W.1.U.” (Broken Hill) : The Barrier
plays its cricket on concrete pitches covered
with matting. Oldfield, here with the N.S.W.
team, says the best substitute for turf is a
mud wicket, with matting. Who uses such
a pitch and what is the experience? We can’t
get grass here, but there might be sufficient
water for a mud wicket if mud is really better
than concrete.
❖ * ❖ ❖
“Hotliam”: The strength of the Vic. bat-
ting this season can be estimated by the
placing of Rigg, the Uni. batsman, among
the emergencies in the team chosen to meet
N.S.W. Rigg had been selected to go to
Adelaide, but could not make the trip. Play-
ing for Melbourne Uni. v. Adelaide Uni. the
young man scored 285, getting 129 of them
in 75 minutes. If he can reproduce this
form in big cricket he will be a welcome
change from the plodders who are nowadays
dulling the edge of the game.
“Shrewsbury”: S. F. Barnes, declared by
Pelham Warner to be the greatest bowler of
all time —if “Plum” had said “English”
bowler most Australians would have agreed
with him—was recently dined and wined by
the Staffordshire county club, for which the
veteran —he was 51 last April—still plays
regularly.. The occasion was the taking of
1000 wickets for the county, and it was
sweetened for the guest by a cheque for
£156, presented by the members of the club.
On a batsman’s pitch Barnes was a wonder-
ful bowler —certainly the finest this country
has seen during the present century. But
Australians will not admit that he was better
than Turner on a bad wicket or superior to
Spoffortli on all wickets.
“Shrewsbury”: There was some surprise
among Australian cricketers when the
Marylebone team opened its South African
tour with R. T. Stanyforth, a comparative
unknown, as captain. The skipper origin-
ally chosen was G. R. Jackson, of Derby-
shire, who has been mentioned as the pos-
sible captain of the next English side to
visit Australia. But it transpires that ill-
ness prevented Jackson from making the
trip to Africa, and Stanyforth, who has
often played in big games with the M.C.C.,
was substituted at the last minute. He is
described as a really good bat and wicket-
keeper, though he has had little experience
of big cricket.
St! * * *
“Cash Amateur” : A good many people
will hear with approval that the vacancy on
the Board of Trustees of the Sydney Cricket
Ground has been filled by the appointment of
W. .T. Roper, N.S.W. Under-Secretary for
Lands. Until lately it was a recognised thing
that the trustees should include a representa-
tive of the Lands Department, but when the
late Under-Secretary resigned a politician was
appointed. The return to the system of
appointing a leading public servant will help
to allay misgivings aroused by the intrusion
of politics and the professional Rugby
League’s monopoly of the ground during the
winter months.
Racquet and Bawl
“Baseline”: The N.S.W. tennis authorities
are evidently of a mind to make hay while
the sun shines, the said sun being the French
touring team. Anyone not a member of the
EVERY CARE TAKEN BUT NO
RESPONSIBILITY.
BINES: “His wife?”
SPINES: “No, just his associate member.”
N.S.W.L.T.A. will have to pay 10s. a day
to sea the Frenchmen in the Australian
championships, with a guinea for the last
day. Also, he will have the privilege of dis-
severing himself from £2 10s. for the three
days of the French-Australian match. As
the championships will run seven days, the
bill for an enthusiast attending the entire
show will pan out at £6 11s. And he won't
have a chance of getting it back, as at the
ponies.
* * * *
“Cut Shot”: Weather permitting, the
second series of Davis Cup ties will open
on the Kooyong courts at Melbourne on Jan.
5, and will be continued on the two following-
days. The list of players to take part has
been reduced to eight; it includes J. B.
Hawkes, who is not available for selection
as a Davis Cupper, but has been asked to
play as a trial horse for testing the doubles
aspirants. Patterson will be the only Vic-
torian in the singles, Dr. Mclnnes having
been dropped. Crawford, Hopmqn, Kalms
and Cummings will be there on behalf of
N.S.W., and Moon will hold up Queens-
land’s end, while Rowe will appear for South
Aus. Gar Hone and Jim Willard have, like
Mclnnes, been dropped. Three singles
matches and one doubles match will be
played on each of the three days.
* * * *
“Ivooringa”: South Aus. followers of
tennis are protesting, and with reason,
against the manner in which their best
players have been ignored by the dominant
eastern authorities, especially in the matter
of Davis Cup selections. The cavalier
treatment accorded to G. M. Hone and
RoWe is quoted in illustration. After being
invited to the abortive Sydney trials, Hone
was incontinently dropped. Rowe is to
have a couple of singles matches in the
second trials in Melbourne, but he will
apparently have to win both to get any
farther forward. Hone and Rowe complain
also of their treatment by officials and
writers for the newspapers; and there are
certainly too many old women in the ranks
of officialdom, and too many one-eyed
barrackers among the scribes.
* :!: :is
“Bisque”: What enthusiasts these coun-
try players are! For the “carnival” opening
at liushcutter Bay on Jan. 3, a bit earlier
than usual, 56 men’s teams have nominated,
and 35 teams of girls. Entries have come from
every part of N.S.W. including .Canberra.
There are 36 aspirants for the men’s singles,
and 20 pairs are in for the doubles. Country
Week has done a lot to raise the standard
of tennis throughout the State. Indeed, the
chief difference between the great majority
of town and country players is that the
style of the latter is adapted solely to the
hard courts on which they do all their
playing until they come to the metropolis.
The urbanite, on the other hand, has plenty
of opportunity to play on both kinds, and
is the better able to adapt himself to cir-
cumstances.
* * * Hs
“Amateur Pro”: It is about time a
standard tennis ball was adopted. The
conflicting claims of manufacturers and the
irreconcilable decisions of governing bodies
are causing- no end of confusion. The N. S.
Wales L.T.A. tested and rejected a cer-
tain make of ball. The Australian authori-
ties, after corresponding tests, recommended
the ball rejected by N.S.W.; in fact, ordered
that it alone should be used for national
events. Thus, as a result, competitors for
the N.S.W. championships will use a type
of ball which the Federal body has turned
down. The same players, when taking part
in events controlled by the Australian body,
will have to use a ball which their own
association has cast out. At a conference
with British manufacturers the Wimbledon
people did their best to secure an agree-
ment for the production of a standard ball.
In this they failed, evidently because there
are greater profits in paying “amateurs”
to use special brands, with the resultant
widespread advertising, than there would
be in turning out one type for everyone.
The Nineteenth Hole
“Sehlaff” : The British open championship
is to be played next year at Sandwich, one
of the stiffest courses in creation. Tas-
mania’s Nettlefolds, father and son, will be
in the field again, and the Australian Golf
Union might lend a hand in sending over a
couple of leading professionals, instead of
leaving it to private enterprise. Rufus
Stewart, of South Aus., would be a very
creditable representative of this country, for
one.
* * * *
“Colonel Damurize”: Someone in America
has been holding a symposium on the
“easiest shot” in golf, and has been rewarded
with the 10,000 contradictory replies that
he might have expected. There is really
no “easiest shot” in golf, any more than
there is a dumb politician or a woman player
who tips her caddie. But there is an occa-
sion when every golfer is eager to point out
that an “easiest shot” has been played.
That is when his opponent has won a hole
which the defeated one thought he himself
had in the bag.,
* * * *
“Timon”: Dr. Mackenzie, who is prized-
far above rubies as a designer of golf
courses, says in his delightful book on the
subject that beauty counts for a good deal.
The designers of the new links of the Royal
Queensland at Hamilton, on the lower
reaches of the Brisbane River, have kept
this in mind. When they have carried out
their intentions, no course in Australia will
compare with Hamilton. The approaches to
the clubhouse have been laid out with
avenues of trees, and the buildings are
smothered in roses and other flowers, while
parterres of the same are visible everywhere.
And palms have been planted in clumps. In
its zeal for beauty, it is to be hoped the
committee will find ample room for golf.
The average player is not so much con-
cerned with the glamor as with the game.
Scrumptious scenery is scarcely popular with
him; it tends to make his mind stray from
his putting, and to lead him to forget to
keep his head down. There are a great many
sufferers from golf who would cheerfully see
the Blue Mountains dissolve into an ash-
heap if they could in some way utilise the
incident—as they would regard it—to reduce
their handicap half a dozen strokes.
$ * $ *
“Swank” : Australian golf-clubs are turn-
ing more and more to club quarters of the
type that the dailies like to call “palatial.”
Consider, for example, what Norman Weekes
has designed for the N.S.W. club at La
Perouse. The slope of a hill is utilised for
making both storeys accessible from ground
level, and the upper floor will contain lounge,
dining-room, women’s room, offices, etc.,
not forgetting the Nineteenth Green. Down
below will be locker-rooms, hot and cold
baths, a room for the caddy-master, and so
forth. Wide balconies and a roof-garden are
also features. Presumably the actual golf-
course will measure up to all this magnifi-
cence, though nothing has been said on that
phase of the subject yet. For a lot of
golfers, the feminine variety especially, it
won’t matter much.
H* * ’ He ❖
“Cleek”: Wynnum (Q.) Golf Club harbors
officials of an original turn of mind, and these
ordained a stroke handicap for one club only.
The choice of the solitary club was left to the
player. Contemporaries have been scoffing
at the idea as useless and a waste of time.
Not so. Many a good player of the past
received his early grounding in golf by being
told how to use a cleek, and being turned
loose on the links with it and an old gutty
to work out his own salvation. A player
trained on these lines does not hamper him-
self with a mass of impedimenta of which
he doesn’t know the names, much less the
purport. Also the man confining himself to
the use of one club at a time is apt to
master its idiosyncrasies, as is often the case
with the husband of one wife. On the other
hand, the man of multitudinous clubs is apt
to find himself in much the same position
as the late King Solomon and Brigham
Young—in a bewildered minority.
* * * *
“Claypan” : Speaking at a club function in
Queensland, a leading local golfer pointed out
that the only way to improve the standard
of the game was to inoculate the rising gen-
eration with the virus, beginning, if possible,
at the walking stage. He got his text from
the striking form shown by a 12-year-old
who had won a caddies’ tournament, played
on a full-size court under approved stroke
and match conditions. The moral needs no
pointing. In Europe and America all the
leading players, whether amateur or profes-
sional, have begun the game in boyhood, and
the same is true of most Australians in the
first flight. Hitherto our general custom has
been to take to golf when football and cricket
became too strenuous. A few make good in
this fashion, but the great majority range, in
the rest of their golfing lives, from the fair
to the dud classes. The obvious remedy is for
paterfamilias to turn the youthful fancy to
thoughts of golf as early as possible. With
the present congestion prevailing in most golf
clubs in Australia, and the high cost of join-
ing them, this is not easy. What is needed
is a great increase in public courses in all
the States.
(Continued on page %1.)


Graham Brothers
BUILT BY TRUCK DIVISION OF DODGE BROTHERS, INC.
SOLD BY DODGE BROTHERS DEALERS EVERYWHERE
": V f; t
Earning Power
Wherever goods are transported by motor the
superior earning power of Graham Brothers
Trucks is recognised.
Now with the new engine they have even greater
earning ability. They have more speed, more
)ower, faster acceleration—and they use
ess fuel.
Only great volume production makes possible so
good a truck at so low a price—67,293 of them
were sold last year.
(■
Canada Cycle & Motor Co. (Victoria) Pty., Ltd., Melbourne
Austral Motors, Limited, Brisbane—Townsville
The Standardised Motors, Ltd., Sydney
Waymouth Motor Co., Ltd., Adelaide
Winterbottom Motor Co., Ltd., Perth
%
W
\
B. 29/12/’27.


6T
%
Performance Unmatched
by any Stocks Model in the World
NEW WORLD’S
RECORDS.
25,000 miles in less
than 23,000 minutes!
A cable just received reports
that two stock m del Com-
mander Roadsters established
new world’s records for speed
and endurance, between Oct-
ober 18 and November 4*
by completing 25,000 miles
in less than 23,000 minutes at
the Atlantic City Speedway.
This is the fastest time for the
farthest distance ever travelled
by any stock car —an average
speel of 65.31 miles per hour
for 12 days!
Official
u C©«nn* an^erl,
Stock Model
Feats
Travelled 5000 miles in
4909 minutes.
Won 32 hill - climbing
contests.
Established 10 world
speed records.
Smashed
ental Record New Yorl
to San Francisco by
21 hours.
Averaged 2o miles to the
toperifl gal. of petrol jn
61 official economy tests.
First and Second m
Atlantic City miles
Stock Model Race.
/ c :laimed “the greatest achievement of post-war
automotive engineering, ” the Studebaker
Commander is a revelation in beauty and perform-
ance—a revolution in fine-car value.
A full-vision all-steel body—fused by electricity into
a complete unit—typifies The Commander’s sturdy
construction. Perfect chassis balance, extra long
springs and the finest steering mechanism ever
devised, make for easy handling and the superior
roadability demanded by the speed of its powerful
motor.
Compare the Commander with cars costing up to
twice its price. Experience for yourself the power,
comfort and smoothness of this world-record car.
It will convince you, as it has thousands of other
enthusiastic Commander owners.
The Commander, £625
Imported all-steel Body Sedan (including £25 worth of extra equipment at no extra cost.)
Studebaker’s Touring
Models from - £373
Studebaker’s Erskine Six
“ The Little Aristocrat ” £293
F.O.R. SYDNEY.
Australian and New Zea'and Distributors:
NEW SOUTH WALES:
The Studehaker Corporation of Australasia y Limited, Sydney .
VICTORIA :
Turner Bros., 396-400 Swanston St.,
Melbourne.
WEST AUSTRALIA:
Sydney Atkinson Motors, Ltd.
41-45 Pier Street, Perth.
QUEENSLAND:
Canada Cycle & Motor Agency (Q.)
Ltd., Creek & Adelaide Sts., Brisbane.
TASMANIA:
Island Motors Proprietary, Ltd.
76 Murray Street, Hobart.
Local Dealers at all important towns.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA:
Millingens, Limited,
42-48 Franklin Street, Adelaide.
NEW ZEALAND:
(Adams Ltd., 152-154 High Street,
Christchurch.
1,009 Studebakers have been driven 100,000 to 500,000 miles,
DEBA ICE


IIQUEUl 1
The Whisky for Connoisseurs
GRANT’S
LIQUEUR
SCOTCH WHISKY
Beautifully Soft , Clean and Mellou)
Shipped by
WM. GRANT & SONS. LTD., GLASGOW.
The leading Independent firm of Scotch Whisky Distillers
Next year the bigger “Bulletin” won’t print as many short stories as the
“Saturday Evening Post,” but there wiM be over 200 of them, as good or
better, and they will be Australian. Buy “The Bulletin”—bigger and better.
kĵk;kj;kl'l
“CLYDE
BATTERIES”
For RADIO, MOTOR-CARS AND
COUNTRY HOME LIGHTING.
THE CLYDE ENGINEERING COMPANY, Ltd.,
Granville; and Goulburn Street, Sydney, N.S.W.
“Road Runner”; Brief was the glory of
E. J. Buckley, who drove from Melbourne
to Sydney in 11 hours 54min. 30sec.; H. J.
Beitli cut 40min. 40sec. off that time last
week. He left Sydney at 4 o’clock in the
morning and reached Melbourne at 3.14 p.m.
He had no companion during the 570 miles,
and, what is more remarkable, the car he
drove —-a Chrysler—was a veteran which had
done 36,000 miles and been burnt out. Beitli
bought it for fSO, and, with designs on the
feat he was to accomplish, had the gear-ratio
raised, springs strengthened, and an extra
petrol tank added to the outfit, besides shock
absorbers. So well did man and machine
stand the run to Melbourne that half an
hour later they were on the return journey
to Albury, where Beitli lives.
“Trembler” : The Victor Bruces’ attack on
the 15,000 miles track record sent the pre-
vious figures reeling. Driving alternately,
the pair finished their trying run on the
Monthlery track in 220 hr. 37min. 14scc.,
averaging 6S m.p.li.; on several occasions
they maintained a speed of over (SO m.p.li. for
long periods. They were assisted during the
last two days by a mechanic named Joyce.
The previous best figures were put up by
Miss Violet Cordery, who visited Australia
early this year. Driving a 2972 c.c. Invicta
on the Monza track in Italy 16 months ago,
Violet covered 15,000 miles in 268 hr. 58min.
27sec. Assisted by relief drivers, she broke
all the records from 5000 kilometres up;
these, in turn, were lowered by the Bruces
in their 1991 c.c. A.C. car.
* * * *
“Whizz” : Things have been very dull on
the whole at Brisbane Speedway lately. There
were three spills in one race the other even-
ing, but nothing to brag about. Ofie gentle-
man, the chronicler notes, was “unhurt”;
another was “only shaken” ; the third sus-
tained a “sprained ankle” merely. It was left
to one Meston to provide the most interest-
ing exhibit of the evening. He “hurdled”
a fallen- competitor and fell. Bounding to
its wheels again, his machine charged the
fence and jumped it, but “at a spot where
there were no spectators.” Rank careless-
ness on someone’s part!
* * =:= *
“Coil” : S. T. Glanfield, who left England
with H. Sparkes on July 2 to ride round the
world, so far as it could be done, on Rudge
Whitworth motor-cycles, cast up in Sydney
last week, having come down from Darwin
via Queensland. The pair crossed Europe
and Asia as far as Bombay, where Sparkes
decided to go on to Australia by steamer.
Glanfield continued through India, the Malay
Peninsula and Java, and so to Darwin. From
Sydney he will take boat to North America
and then across that continent; he plans to
reach London in February. From the
starting-point to Sydney he reckons he has
ridden 19,000 miles.
Miscellaneous
“Past Grammar” : Though the narrow loss
of the match with Scotland was a disappoint-
ment, the Waratahs have done better in
Britain than the Wallabies did, and the
opposition is certainly stiffer than it was in
1908-09. Including the Scottish match,
20 games have been won, three lost and one
drawn. The Wallabies lost five and drew
one. They played three internationals;
Wales beat them, and they defeated Eng-
land and France. The Waratahs will have
a tough match against England on January
7 but, given dry weather, they should win
the English game, and then account for the
French.
* * *
“Everton”: N. S. Wales Soccer was
rocked to its boot-heels by the announce-
ment that a State League had been formed
in opposition to the Association, which has
been controlling the game since it was first
organised in the Ma State. Last year an
attempt was made to bring the thing about,
but vigorous action by the Association
squelched the move. This time the origina-
tors of the League enlisted the sympathies
of nearly all the best clubs in the Newcastle,
Bulli and Metropolitan districts before lodg-
ing the ultimatum. It is a repetition of the
history of the Association and League in
Britain, and the inducement held out to the
seceders is the same—the open recognition
of professional football. Under the Associa-
tion, amateurism was practised in theory,
though veiled infringements were common
enough. The League aims at nothing else but
payment for playing. In the result N. S.
Wales will rejoice in the possession of two
professional codes where but one grew 1
before.
* * * *
“Amateur Pro.”: The English lawn-tennis
authorities are not alone in banning the
“plaver-writer” <*B. 22/12/’27) ; the commit-
tee of the English Rugby Union lias issued a
warning that even the reporting of matches
by players is contrary to the spirit of
amateurism and must be discontinued. The
N.S.W. body imposed a similar prohibition on
the Waratahs, just as the Board of Control
did in the case ot the last Australian XI.
It is a pity the principle cannot be extended,
for the hiring of athletes, often semi-
illiterates, to “write” press articles about
their achievements and those of their friends
and enemies is an injustice to real jour-
nalists and an infliction on the public, now
constantly exposed to these wandering im-
becilities.
J|c :1c * :;c
“Hoop”: After a bitter struggle, during
which the referee made no attempt to caution
the players, the English croquet team won
the first Test at Melbourne by 4 matches
to 2. The Australian side was composed
entirely of Victorians; the other States
were invited to forward names for selection,
but declined with thanks, being evidently
impressed with the Cabbage Gardeners’
flair for the dangerous and exciting game.
The next Test is to commence on January
2, after the tourists have knocked the stuffing
out of N.S.W. in Sydney.
“Dawgsbody”: The greyhound has gone
into winter quarters in Britain, and simul-
taneously the nation is sobering up after its
tin-hare debauch. Banks, it is reported, are
refusing to hold accounts for new tin-hare
companies, hundreds of which have been
formed. Shares are slumping everywhere, and
sellers are unable to unload in many in-
stances. An unprecedented number of savings
certificates, the gilt-edged holdings of the
great mass of England’s wage-earners, has
been sold since the craze took hold, and
pawnbrokers in the poorer quarters are turn-
ing away pithnetli. It seems an opportune
moment for Gosling, the late Minister for
Tin Hares in N.S.W., to go back to England
and tell the proletariat what a blessing the
“sport” is.
❖ ❖
“Bumpkin”: Over 12,0,00 Victorians
attended the first tin-hare meeting at Totten-
ham, some being led by curiosity and more
by the fact that bookmaking had not then
been made illegal. The following Saturday,
the Governor’s assent to the anti-betting bill
having been obtained, the population dropped
to _ 4000. The raucous voice of McShortodds
being silent, the hounds careered after their
quarry in a'stillness that was only broken by
the band and the unnatural uproar kicked
up by the mechanical animal itself. The
crowd got up small sweepstakes amongst
itself and looked depressed. Some of the
dogs even saw the absurdity of chasing an
object that looks like a paralysed rabbit and
makes a noise like a Ford.
“Pithecanthropus” : The tin-hare industry
gained distinctly in tone when monkey
jockeys were introduced in some of the
races on a Sydney track. The behavior of
these true “knights of the saddle” was exem-
plary ; for example, not one of them dropped
the wraps for a moment to scratch himself,
a practice common enough in other circum-
stances. They all rod? with the crouch seat,
Dr. McINNES, the Vic. tennis player,
whose return to his Davis Cup form
of 1923 gave rise to hopes that he would
be selected for this year’s tourney in
Europe.
and as far as could be seen there was no
steadying of the mounts or dealing it. out to
favorites at the turns. The innovation was
such an improvement as to suggest that
simians* of the larger and more vociferous
varieties might be utilised to replace the
present type of bookmaker. They; would be
much cheaper to support, for one thing, since
they prefer bananas to diamonds, and would
sooner roost in a tree than a Rolls ltoyce.
Sc Sc Sc
“Swan”: The Westralians, winners of the
eight-oar championship of Australia, are not
leaving anything to chance in the matter of
retaining their hold on the King’s Cup. The
crew has already been chosen, and will start
work r-t once, though the race will not be
rowed till May. The affair on the wide and
windy Derwent estuary was unsatisfactory.
inasmuch as a couple of boats swamped,
though the Westralians would probably have
won in any case. On the sheltered Nepean
the luck of the game will be practically cut
out. So far none of the other States have
attempted to get a crew together. Unless
they take time h.y the whiskers, the chances
are that the Westralians will maintain in
the race itself the lead they have taken in
the preparation for it.
“Splash”: The N.S.W. swimming cham-
pionships at Manly baths were exciting, but
the times were nothing out of the way.
In the absence of Henry, Frank Doyle was
thought to be a good thing for the 100 yards,
but he was beaten on the post by A. Laidlaw,
F. THOMPSON, the Queensland batsman,
whose fighting innings of 118 against
Victoria, in Melbourne, brought his total
number of mins in inter-State matches
to 2000.
with H. Robertson a touch behind Doyle,
lire time was 57 4-ssec. —far below the
Olympic standard. J. Kelly won the 880 yards
from start to finish in. llmin. 56 3-ssec.;
Charlton put up 10 min. 32sec. in the
Domain baths last January. Manly’s Noel
Ryan, hailed by many as another Charlton,
had a fine win in the 220-yards junior
event, and could evidently have cut a bit
off his time, 2min. 36 l-ssec.
“Heine Schprintz”: The Vic. Amateur
Athletic Association has got itself into a
tangle by inviting Dr. Peltzer, the German
800-metres champion, to visit Australia.
The doctor wrote asking if a visit would be
acceptable, and the Victorians replied, off
their own bat, that it would. Thereupon
the German amateur authorities cabled that
they would not sanction Peltzer’s visit, since
he would be expected to represent Germany
in the Olympiad at Amsterdam, and the
invitation was accordingly cancelled. Now
Peltzer advises that he is leaving for Austra-
lia in February, in spite of the German
association, and the question arises what
to do with him. To give him countenance
v ill be to break the laws of the Amateur
Federal'on, to which both the German and
Australian governing bodies are affiliated.
On the other hand, the arrival of an indig-
nant Fritz, all prepared with running-shoes
and shorts, only to find that he has been de-
clared “black,” is an unnerving thing to
contemplate.
“Spike”: The Australian National Games
will be held in Sydney from Jan. 7 to
Jan. 14 inclusive. Though they have been
inaugurated as a sort of trial for the com-
petitions at Amsterdam, it is proposed to
hold them every four years, if all goes well,
Manly will be the scene of the first meeting,
and the Governor-General is to open the
shivoo with all the pomp and ceremonial
possible, including processions, banners,
bands and hordes of adoring flappers. The
running events will be all in metres —an
innovation which might well become per-
manent, since comparisons with Continen-
tal and American achievements can then be
made with accuracy. The track events, all
scratch, comprise 100, 200, 400, 800, 1500
and 10,000 metres, with 110 and 400 metres
hurdles ; and there will be all the recognised
field games. A couple of handicaps and
some races for women have been thrown into
the programme as a makeweight, though both
are out of place at a meeting of this
nature.
ijl
“Bamboo”: Australian polo is coming
fairly on to the international map. Not
only has an Australian trip to America been
arranged, but an Indian Army team has been
invited to play in Australia during the Dud-
ley Cup tournament next winter. The I.A.
men are agreeable, and the N.SAV. Polo
Association has arranged to supply them
wirh ponies, so that is that. The visitors
will be the first overseas team —if one excepts
Maqrilanders—to play in Australia.
Business, Robbery, etc.
“675” : The hypocrisy of the Federal Gov-
ernment in the matter of Tatt.’s sweeps gets
thicker. Not only does the Post OHice con-
tinue the ban on letters addressed to Tatt.’s,
but Tatt.’s is not now permitted to sell
tickets over the counter. This means that
postage is also exacted for the result of the
drawing. On a single ss. ticket the Post
Office thus obtains a revenue of .’ld. from
even the local purchaser. The bureaucrat
who thought out this little robbery will be a
valuable man to the service on the day that
Uncle refuses to renew.
$ * * *
“Catalyst” : During the year now closing
nearly TOO houses at .at. Morgan (Q.) were
pulled down and removed. A few weeks ago
a drapery store, which must have cost
£lO,OOO to build, was offered for sale by
auction ; the highest bid was £l3OO, which
was refused. Tenders for the purchase of the
mine close at the end of January. If no
tender is accepted the plant will be sold
piecemeal.
* * * i?
“Skyrider”: Country hotelkeepers are
being hit to leg by short-hour awards. Touring
motorists, having learned by experience that
if they arrive in a township late they will
fail to get “their warmest welcome at an
inn,” now convert the car into a bedroom
and cook their own grub. And Bung was
relying on the automobiling habit to restore
the old roadside trade.
* S' S' S'
“Seagee” : With a few bob between thepi
and a beerless Christmas, two Victorians
sank their capital in the purchase of a
supply of camphor, red and blue ink, a few
small cake-moulds and some hairpins. Half
a day’s work in the “laboratory” found them
possessed of a stock of white, pink and blue
cubes of camphor, each with a loop of wire
attached. Patter did the rest. “Here you
are, lady, white ones for moths an’ silver fish,
sixpence; pinks for cockroaches, ninepence ;
an’ blues for ‘skeeters and smells at a shillin’.
One of each? Thank you, lady.* Jist ’ang
them up by the wire ‘ook in the place where
the pests arc. Good afternoon.”
* * * *
“Cartot”: The postal authorities are con-
stantly urging the public to have its mail
addressed to p.o. boxes, since each letter so
addressed means so much less work for the
post deliveries. Yet there is not a post office
in the metropolitan area of Sydney at which
a box can be got for love or cash. The G.P.O.
has a waiting list on which the intending
hirer of a box can put his name, and every
box on the premises is rented until the end
of next July. At most suburban offices the
chances are as hopeless. The shopkeeper who
urged the use of goods that he couldn’t supply
would be voted a darned bad business man.
Then isn’t the P.M.G. ?
* * * *
“O.B.”: During the Bullfinch boom
(W.A.) a pet phrase of mining men con-
cerning the country surrounding the Bullfinch
Prop, was tlmt it would never produce any-
thing more valuable than saltbush. So far
as minerals were concerned, they have been
proved nearly right; but fallowing, judicious
use of super, and the breeding of a suitable
wheat have resulted in thousands of acres of
Bullfinch country yielding this season 24
bushels per acre. Taking production costs
at £3 per acre, a similar amount is profit.
And a like transformation may be seen
around the formerly dead mining town of
Southern Cross, 22 miles south.
* * * *
“Skyrider”: No need for “Spazzum” (B.
15/12/’27) to bother about little things like
spoilt carpets at Canberra Parliament
House; since that whited box of cubes was
“completed” thousands of pounds have been
spent on alterations. The ceiling of King’s
Hall, supported on imported Oregon instead
of Australian steel or hardwood, bulged in-
wards not long after the Yorks had departed,
and is still bulging. John Butters explained
the weakness by a reference to the climate,
which, he said, affected the most seasoned
timber. Yet native hardwood, placed in
position 50 years ago, is still doing good
service in a score of towns in the Southern
Highlands. But, anyway, what are a few
thousands in Canberra?
* * * *
“P. Way”: Tired of being blamed for
keeping the cost of living on the Barrier sky-
high, S. J. Berry, superintendent of the Sil-
verton Tramway Co., stated the other day
that freight rates over its 35 miles of line
are lower than on any State railway in
Australia over the same distance. Although
working costs have doubled, freight rates
have not been increased for over 20 years,
he says, and no State railway can claim
that. It’s all true, and still the explanation
isn’t half as good as it sounds. The com-
pany’s 35 miles is only a section of a 200-
mile haul: and the real question is “Does
Broken Hill pay more for that 35 miles than
it does for any other 35 miles in the 200-
mile journey?”


Amusements,
PMPIRET H E A T R E,
Railway Square, adjoining Saunders’ Corner,
in Quay Street, Sydney.
Rufe Naylor lias the honor to present
2/6 THE FILM GIRL. 5/6
NIGHTLY, 7.45 SHARP.
Reserves at Theatre (M.A. 1000), Nicholson’s,
Paling’s, Hotel Australia, Usher’s, Carlton, Samuel’s.
Matinees Wednesday and Saturday at 2.
Theatre Box Office Hours: 9 to 3, 4 to 9.
TI) KB Y’S CHILL' 1 THEATRES.
J. C. WILLIAMSON, 1,T0., present
HER MAJESTY’S:
THE GIRL FRIEND.
CRITERION:
A CUCKOO IN THE NEST.
ROYAL: THE TERROR.
PALACE : CORNERED.
DICK ARDS’ TIVOLI THEATRES.
Lessees: Harry Rickards’ Tivoli Theatres, Ltd.
MELBOURNE and SYDNEY.
TWICE EVERY DAY—2.3O and 8.
CELERRITY VAUDEVILLE.
The World’s Best.
J C. WILLIA MSO N, LTD.,
MELHOURNE ATTRACTIONS.
HIS MAJESTY’S:
THE STUDENT PRINCE.
KING’S THEATRE:
ALL THE KING’S HORSES.
THEATRE ROYAL: QUEEN HIGH.
A THEN rE U M THEA T R E,
MELHOURNE.
Proprietor: Frank Talbot Pty., Ltd.
Lessee: E. J. Carroll.
EVERY EVENING AT 8.15.
The Laughable Three-act Comedy,
THE ALARM CLOCK.
“A Tickle in Every Tick.”
Direction E. J. CARROLL.
Plans at Allan’s.
HOI T’S D E LUXE THE ATRE,
MELBOURNE.
FIREMAN, SAVE MY CHILD.
Featuring
WALLACE BEERY and RAYMOND HATTON.
ALSO
ROBINSON CRUSOE
, With Ail-Star Cast.
IVI AJESTIC THEATRE. MELBOURNE.
‘‘One of the Union Theatres.”
RIN-TIN-TIN,
The Wonder Dog,
in
HILLS OF KENTUCKY.
Box Plan at Allan’s and Theatre. ’Phone 7076 & 7790.
ALLAN WILKIE and MISS HUNTER-
WATTS in a Repertoire of 24 Plays of
SHAKSPEARE.
In preparation for 1928, “Coriolanus,” “All’s Well
That Ends Well,” “Henry* IV.” (part 1), “Richard
II.” In Season Hobart Theatre Royal.
Sydney Representative: J. V. de Batyn, Box 2229,
Sydney.
Flannel Blazers Q'Tii!
at Murdoch’s ■ wi|U
All-Wool Flannel Blazers, colored
braid round edges of cuffs and pockets.
Three patch pockets—Navy shade.
Post Free. Write to Desk R.
MURDOCH’S IN PARR ST. LTD., SYDNEY
if any illustration in The Bulletin takes j
your fancy, write to the Manager, who will j
quote you price for the original.
“The Woman’s Mirror”
. -r
Published every Tuesday
PRICE 3d.
it deals with every subject of
interest to women.
FOR MEN
Look for Name on Sole
The Panhard —■
a combination last re-
sulting from a vast
amount of scientific
research and experi-
mentation.
This model, which is
now obtainable at all
"Marshall” dealers,
will immediately appeal
to you.
Made in Tosca Tan Calf,
Guaranteed Patent, and
our 1928 Mahogany Tosca
Calf, now obtainable from
most "Marshall” dealers.
If not stocked by yours,
he can obtain from us
immediately.
Price 39/6
POLISHrfROTE
£
c*
300 Shines in
every Jar for-lfe
Also in Tubes and
Bottles for- -l'S
Holds More Ink
EPggq
SELF-FILLING
SAFETY
Onoto, the Pen, has for years been the busy
man’s pen. The ease with which it fills and
cleans itself, its readiness to write whenever
wanted, its absolute security from leakage,
and the fact that it holds 50 per cent, more
ink than any other self-filling pen has gained
for Onoto, the Pen, the first place.
THOMAS DE LA RUE & CO. LTD.
U.O Bunhill Row, London, E C. 1.
ONOTO INK—Best for all Pen*.
THE MARK OF
A GOOD RAZOI
THE
any max* vou know who uaea a PLUM—
ask him if he doesn't think it the best
Razor he has ever used. Hear him
answer. "Why, rather!"
r-
SUPPLIED SET READY FOR USE
GUARANTEED AND KEPT IN I J
ORDER FOR TWO YEARS FREE JL I/ VJ Post Fl*ee.
CRAIG &AITKEN,
654 Georye Street, Sydney.
Answers to Correspondents.
So notice (except of a hostile character) will be
taken of communications insufficiently stamped.
Name and address must appear on the AIS. No
liability is undertaken re contributions volun-
tarily submitted; and no MS. will be returned
unless stamps accompany.
John B. (Litligow) : Heavy and colorless.
.... Mar T.: Too thin Lina P. A.: Merit in it, and
promise; but it deserves better working 0ut....
R.H.P.: That idea has been worn to rags. . . .R.C.11.:
Spoiled by its improbabilities. First, the cheque.
They don’t do it that way.... 675, S.I.G. and Sad
Australian: “Eliza” has said (B. 15/12/’27) all
that it is necessary to say on the subject....
James G.: Much obliged, but we must cover a whole
continent ever}' week and we’ve got to take all the
short cuts we know.... Joan B.: Sounds delightful,
yet is unsound otherwise... .Roy C.: As incredible
as Mr. Latehome’s bedtime story.... A.S.H.: “Dis-
aster” is nothing less. .. .Leonid: The cup of bitter-
ness is filled too often. . . .C.M.S.: Artificial story. ...
Awani: Poorly constructed. The vengeance is the
essential part, but your stuff is mostly a prosy
account of the injury... .R.T.: They fail to impress.
.... Skeeta: Orthodox bit of Christmas sentiment....
B.E. (Randwick) : Now, what is all that?. . . .F.G.L.:
The air it grew sulph’rous round the head
Of the men as they talked ; what was it they said?- —■
Blank, Blanky, Blank, Blanky, Blank-Blanky Blank
—dash !
If I filled in the letters you’d think it was rash.
Well, that sounds like a real conversation. . . .E.M.8.:
Not convincing.... W.T.: It runs lots of daggers to
the square inch, but what is it all about?. . . .Joe M.:
Tut, tut! Three tuts, in fact. . . .E.J.A.: It lumbers
along. .. .Raja: Doesn’t quite run the distance. A
Sunday paper might like it.... Roma R.: The little
wife is too good to be true Joseph: Your punter
is a goat of many colors... .L.0’8.: Feeble....
Ula: The two last lines settled it... .Phyllis T.:
You’re young yet ; you’ll grow older and do better.
.. . .E.W.: What’s the joke?.. . .W.T.W.: Just below.
....Ada H.-B. (London): The cockney is out of
place; the others just miss.... Clara G.: The men
you ladies write stories about take a long time to
fill pipes... .Cam. D.: Yes, it is pathetic:—
Her dog and she
Together be,
In the grave where they are sleeping;
1 drop a tear
Upon that bier,
And go home greyly weeping.
. ...R.S.M.: You call her “a dove” obviously for
the purpose of sending her “above”... .F.M.:
Poor verse. .. . A.M.M.: Doesn’t score. .. .E.M.E.:
There are no points of interest in it....
0. Grate: “Cold Water” is tepid. .. .H.J.M. (Mel-
bourne) : Story read well until we came to the
story; then it wasn’t much of a story... .Jim Mc-C.:
Rather dreary.... J.S. A.: Poor stuff.... D.R.: In-
effectual. . .C.P.D.: “The Wreck” really did founder.
.. . .C.F. : “Nerve” failed. . . .11.W.8.: A poor fist
....Jean Mac: Gurgling little effort. .. .T.V.T.:
Dago verse is cheap.... Laura M. J.: Little
sob story.... W.S.A.: Slight; but one may do.
. ...H.V.W.: Afraid the point of the coinci-
dence is not strong enough... .F.A.W.: The loss
of a pair of pants has to be told much more
smartly... .Poet Jesse: All that for a poor joke!....
0.E.W.: You fail to repeat the grip of the first
one. . . .W.A.C.: It’s a raw story. .. .L. Van.: Fails
to ring true M.A.P.: It’s not verse. .. .Gladys :
You seem to get a mighty satisfaction from “They,
like me, must die.” It’s not an inspired thought.
.. . . P.W.McC.: The few grains in “Wheat” are swept
away in the flood of words... .C.H.M.: “Oh, Kay!”
is not... .Judith II.: Try it again; there are faults
in the last verse.... Poet J.: Impassable flaws in it.
. ...E.P.: No substance in “Dreams”... .G.R.L. : Do
you really think “yott” is the right spelling?. . . .M.M.:
Stilted sentinient.... Lance T. : We laid your ghost
to rest. . . .Effel: A mere gasp.... Bruno: Advice to
shopgirl to be polite to customers is not worth verse.
.. .. Bellerive: “Hawkins’s Adventures” winds up the
year splendidly:—
“I’ve travelled,” bragged Hawkins,
“Where wild beasts of prey
Leap upon blacks and
Quickly bear ’em away.
When pursued by lions
I’d hide in the grass,
While above my head
The monsters would pass.
Hard pressed by a bear
At the foot of a hill,
Armed with a club
The brute I did kill.
I’ve encountered big serpents
Among fallen trees,
And flies and mosquitoes
More spiteful than bees.
I’ve been lost in dense forests
Where I’d creep from the blues” ■
Here a larrikin blurted
“Garn, you’ve been on the booze.”
G.L.M.: Your “poetry” is very pottery
j R.M.A.: “Boxes” knocked out. . . .L.F.R.: Tale of hero-
ism is done in dreadful verse.... Bert C.: Verse is too
| prosy and story lacks interest. .. .Roy D. P.: Un-
inspired picture. .. .L.C.McL.: The old yarn will
pass out without your requiem. . . .Schwep: “Dilemna”
is a puzzle. .. .G.L.: Dashed off, eh? Dashed hard
reading, t 00... .P.L.M.: The infant you try to
glorify needs a smacking... .L.L.R.: “Turbulence”
has dropped into the peace of the w.p.b D.D.M.:
P00r... .L.11.G.: “The Hound” gets off the scent of
what promised to be a fair story. . . .Marquita: Sorry,
space is too short. .. .F.R.C.S.: Your rainmaking
recipe might have stood a chance if you hadn’t
quoted Job and Jeremiah as your scientific autho-
rities. ... Kismet: Glad to hear cactus keeps the
family healthy, but you don’t say how it’s done....
Allanibee: Quite true that rabbit-trappers don’t have
to feed bunny, but that doesn’t prove rabbit farming
wouldn’t pay.. ..L. Van: “Guardian” suffers from
unreal characters and a watery p10t.... H.'G.: Still
falls short. It drops into prose and gets common-
place in spots W.T.W.: Too slight; though both
have merit. .. .Michael T.: A rattling of dry bones.
....Rosalie W.: Don’t see where it would fit in.
....Annette: Not a very vivid picture.... Coati:
Clippety-clop, clippety-clop—2o verses of drowsy
canter. Mother Somebody’s Soothing Stirrup.
TO ARTISTIC (AND INARTISTIC)
CORRESPONDENTS.
V.K.P.: Returning ’em packed in cottonwool,
they’re so frail... .G.M.1.: First attempt? Be kind,
and make it the last... .W.W.: Sketch of the plumber
w'ho went back has followed the plumber....
Anon: Stray drawing of drunk spouting to the
moon awaiting owner in the office pound. .. .T.A.:
That watchdog would keep any editor at bay
... . S.F.: We don’t give out jokes for untried artists
to illustrate... .Mac: Glad to learn that your sketches
were exhibited in your shop window and that you are
still in the same business.. . .H.EJI.: Keep on
studying—law A.E.V.: “Impressions on the Voy-
age Out” are blurred.... W.H.J.: You won’t be
banking a But.i.etix cheque .. . .P.D.L.: AVe did our
best to love your bow-legged spinster, but couldn t
manage it.
THE INKY WAY.
It takes a pound or two of ink to smear
The Bulletin every week. For a recent
six days, when the Christmas number was
turned out as well as the ordinary number
and the Woman’s Mirror, the ink-bill was
£165. Unfortunately there isn’t any Aus-
tralian paper that The Bulletin can use;
but its ink is good Australian—Wimble's
product.
“C.Q.”: The real objection amongst union
leaders to Clapp’s Railway Magazine,
which is a dashed bright little organ, is
not the expense. It is the paper’s beastly
habit of preaching the virtues of hard
yakker. A crowd that regards taking a
bonus for better work as something nearer a
crime than a misdemeanor isn’t likely to
look with favor on a vehicle for such “capi-
talistic” delusions.
These Australians are everywhere. Lionel
Buckland, a son of the late S. V. Buckland,
of Geelong, is an authority on cotton, and
one of the Manchester Guardian's special
writers on that subject. At present he is in
Egypt.
“Coot”: Various short-lived Australian,
periodicals having received notice, what
about existing long-lived . ones. Of Mel-
bourne’s weeklies the Leader is the oldest,
having been established in 1858. The Aus-
tralasian appeared in 1864, the Weekly
Times following five years later in conjunc-
tion with the ill-fated Daily Telegraph.
Among monthly magazines the Australian
Journal holds the record. Its first appear-
ance was in September, 1865, as a fort-
nightly.
“Two Seas”: My first Bulletin contribu-
tion provided me with a new stockwhip when
I was jackerooing in ’B4 on the Liverpool
Plains; my first set of verses gladdened my
eyes during a long droving trip to Queensland
with horses. Since then I have appeared on
all the pages mentioned by “X.N.0.” (B.
l/12/’27) and a few more. I still retain the
note written by the late J. F. Archibald in
’B5 requesting theatrical managers to put me
“on the door.” A letter from the same good
friend of the young writer gained me the job
of sub. on a London paper in ’9O when the
struggle for billets in Fleet-street was pretty
fierce. The proprietor wanted a Bulletin
man and I was the only one on the spot.
“Bruce”: Perhaps my Bulletin record is
as remarkable as any. My first par. appeared
20 years ago ; since then a fair proportion of
the items I’ve sent have been regularly accep-
ted. My first story was submitted 30 years ago.
my first poem 35 years ago; both were
rejected, and-—l’ve never had a story nor a
poem accepted yet. But I still keep on trying
in the hope that some day a literary arbiter
will put the telescope to his blind eye. I
remember my first rejection : “That was all
said before, and said ever so much better by
better writers than you will ever be.” And
my last poem was rejected in almost the
same words, which suggests that the Bul-
letin is at least consistent.
“P.X.”: There has been much figuring
where these things are discussed, and out of
the calculations come two records put up by
this year’s Christmas Bulletin —on 'the
literary and artistic side it was easily the
most expensive paper ever produced in Aus-
tralia ; and, to balance that, it “carried"
more advertising. Walter Jardine is now
the most highly-paid artist drawing for an
Australian paper: he lives and works in
New York, where successful pages command
$5OO. On the literary side Katharine Susan-
nah Prichard can command the best money
for prose.
“Topee”: I will back myself as having
received more remuneration for a single word
than any other regular Bulletin con-
tributor. Over 33 years ago a cheque for
£l5 14s* 6d. was dropped into my letter-
box. The word that earned it was “sensa-
tionalism” ; the amount represented my divi-
dend in one of the missing-word competi-
tions promoted by the paper in 1894. The
cheque form, by the way. was from an
earlier design of “Hop's,” and appropriately
represented an elderly spectacled fairy show-
ering golden coin from an outsize cornu-
copia into the battered tile of a gratefully-
expectant scribe. In what year was this
superseded by the present Micawber plate?
“A.G.M.” (Lond) : The death of C. W.
Randle in the Acton Hospital will recall a
personality known to many Australians,
Born in Leicester, the wanderlust carried
him over the world as teacher, musician, mis-
sionary and writer, and in these various
capacities he lived and worked in Australia.
He joined up in Melbourne' with the A.1.F.,
and, skilled in French and German, became
interpreter. On being demobbed he was
attached to the Ministry of Pensions. At his
death, after an operation, he was manager
of the West London Post, and in that job
did many a good turn to ex-service men
trying to earn a little by their pens. He left
his body to the hospital, his gratitude to his
doctor and his landlady, and his love to his
baby, the West London Post.
“Nakhoda”: Has anybody had a Bulle-
tin reject accepted by the same paper after
the lapse of 12 years? In 1912 I sent a
yarn from Borneo about a young Australian
with an hereditary disposition to adiposity,
who conceals from his best girl that lie has
got grossly fat. She conies up to see him.
and the only way I could think up for
getting him out of his predicament was to
make him break his neck by falling off a bal-
cony. The feeble thing came back on the
wings of the next mailboat. Twelve. years
afterwards I travelled between Wellington
and Sydney with a Fat Boy and Fat Girl
who were, I fancy, on the I uller circuit.
Watching them one day, my sub-conscious
self turned over in its sleep. I rushed down
into the cabin, fished out the brown old
manuscript and restored my stout hero to
life. Then I arranged that his fiancee should
have brnm growing fat in secret, too; and
wedding-bells closed the story. It romped
into a Christmas issue.


“THE BULLETIN” IN 1928
“THE BULLETIN” can now announce its list of artists for 1928.
There will be drawings by (among others) NORMAN LINDSAY,
DAVID LOW, LEASON (Leason will return in January as one of the
regular cartoonists), JARDINE (with some exquisite verse illustrations),
B. E. MINNS (a fine series of abo. drawings), SOUTER, SCORFIELD,
PERCIVAL, PERCY LINDSAY, BERTHA BENNETT BURLEIGH and
COLIN COLAHAN.
The supply of short stories for some years after the war was poor.
During the last two years it has improved so enormously in quantity
and quality that this section of the paper will be extended. THE
BULLETIN” Short Stories of 1928 will be memorable.
PRICE STILL SIXPENCE
QN
BANK
THE QUEENSLAND NATIONAL BANK, LIMITED.
Incorporated under the Companies Act 1863. Established 1872.
Directors— A. C. Luya, Esq., Chairman; James Love, Esq ; W. H. Hart, Esq.;
M. J. Rvan, Esq.; D. W. Macdonald, Esq.
General Manager —M. G. HAYMEN.
HEAD OFFICE BRISBANE
With offices at London, Canberra (Federal Territory) Melbourne, Sydney, and
branches in Queensland and Northern Rivers, N. S. Wales, also representation
through the leading Banking Institutions covering Australasia and the World, this
Bank offers the fullest facilities for the transaction of all general banking business.
TUDOR
ACCUMULATORS
for Reliability and Long Life.
Australasian Office —
TUDOR ACCUMULATOR CO., LTD.,
Culwulla Chambers, Castlereagh Street, SYDNEY.
Hagan’s Throw.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
THE famous wrestler, standing between
the steep clay walls of the Long Cut-
ting, said the thing was impossible.
Throw a man, even a man as light as Cor-
nell, eight feet over his head on to the bank
above? He couldn’t do it himself. The thing
was impossible.
But the famous wrestler had never seen
Hagan, never seen the beer-barrel chest on
the man, the arms that were thick as an
average man’s thighs, the heavy face with
it’s dangerous, sombre red hair. More, he’d
never seen him burst and bruise his way
through undergrowth.
In the mountain-hedged country round
Tundarra the scrub grows thick and matted
beneath the great trees. Hagan worked at
Camp No. 3, Tundarra Sawmilling Co.,
about half-way up the side of Mount Tun-
darra ; and to watch him crash his way
through the undergrowth, which grows
thickest at that altitude, was to understand
something of the magnificent brutality of
the man. With a kind of bovine swaying of
limbs and body he would force, his way
through, kicking, trampling, clawing, snap-
ping, as though the green, tangled mass of
bracken and creepers were a living thing
and he tearing the life out of it by shreds.
Camp No. 3 bowmd without question to
Hagan’s leadership for two reasons: he
could lick any two of his mates at once, and
his will never ran counter to the will of the
majority. He never wanted it to. Perfect
physical machine that he was, with more
than one man’s share of physical courage,
he had no idea of the meaning of moral
courage, couldn’t understand how one man
could pit his opinion against the crowd’s.
He’d knock the guts out of any man that
stood up to him, risk his neck for a fair-
sized bet, but as far as opinions went one
man’s opinion was as good as another’s- —
the crowd’s wmuld do him. It was easier
like that. Only a fool would .stick to an
opinion flat against the crowd’s.
When a man’s as blind to one of the great
facts of life as that, the powers that be
generally knock him hard sooner or later.
Hagan took the hardest knock a man can
take.
It happened like this. Cornell jumped
off the back of an ascending timber-tram one
day, reported at the foreman’s hut and was
put on as an extra
track maintenance-
man. How or why
he came to a tim-
ber camp we never
guessed until the
second night after
he arrived. In build
he was weedy, with
a pale, undecided
face that seemed
to be always beg-
ging your pardon,
lank, flaxen hair —
only the eyes were
blue and quite
steady. His clothes
were very clean
and freshly patched
—a sight too clean
and neat for a man
that has to tear his
livelihood out of
the forest. The
gave him one
look of good-
natured contempt
and forgot him.
On the second
night we re-awoke
to the fact of his
existence —re-awoke
with a start. A fire
was blazing in the
middle of the long
hut, most of the
men were lying in
their bunks talking
drowsily, a faint
haze of smoke in
between, Hagan
laboriously scrawl-
ing a letter under a
kerosene-lamp.
“Look here, boys.
I’ve got a few
pamphlets her e
Army pamphlets
Salvation Army,
you know.” The
voice, high, defen-
sive and insistent,
cut the drowsy
atmosphere like a cold knife. Cornell was
climbing out of his bunk with something
in his left hand, glancing round the shadowy
lines of bunks like a frequently-kicked dog,
yet with a kind of desperate determination.
The hum of talk snapped short into a
hazy silence. “They’re good stuff all right
—useful stuff. I’d like you boys to take a
few.”
He paused irresolute, his head flicking
quickly from side to side, the pamphlets
half-extended so that their red covers shone
in the firelight.
We had a good crowd at Camp No. 3.
Two or three laughed; that lean hound
Jordan sneered “Hell! What is it?” but the
majority, after the first shock, wanted to
give the fellow a fair hearing. We told him
emphatically to go ahead. Hagan was star-
ing at him in truculent surprise.
“I belong to the Army, you see,” lie went
on in his high voice, “but I work with road-
gangs, splitters, sawmills. I go round,
wherever there’s a crowd of men, and try —
well, try to do my bit.”
His voice trailed away, but his eyes were
steady and defiant now. Somebody called,
“Chuck one here, Dig!” then someone else,
then Bill Mullins and Jordan. He had got
rid of about half his bundle when Hagan
lurched out of his chair and, enveloping the
remainder with his great paw, said shortly:
“Show us!”
“Not all,” returned Cornell apologetically.
“Show us!” snapped Hagan again, and he
jerked the pamphlets out of Cornell’s hand.
The top one lay open. Hagan glanced at
the first page, threw it on the floor, glanced
at another, threw it on the floor.
“I want those,” said Cornell quietly,
putting out his hand to take them. It was
trembling.
Hagan, without raising his hand, gave him
a push that sent him sprawling across the
hut. He rose slowly, came back with white
face and twitching lips. Yet he managed
to stammer, “Give me those!” and tried to
snatch the pamphlets from Hagan’s hands.
He must have hurt Hagan—scratched his
hand. In a flash something blazed in the
big man’s eyes, and his fist hooked round in
a half-circle. Cornell crashed to the floor
as though he had been shot, lay there
quivering with the blood welling from his
nose. Hagan flung the pamphlets in his
face and sat down to liis letter. Dead
silence; then the scratching of a pen in a
smoke-hazy room.
That was how it started. The feud, be-
fore Hagan ended it with the one fine act
of his life, went on for nearly a fortnight.
Hagan had tasted blood. He had struck
once and he felt the itch whenever his and
Cornell’s paths crossed. Dully he felt that
HEROES.
“Jove, you know too many surfing fellows, I think! That’s
fifteen you’ve nodded to this morning.”
“Yes, the darlings! They all saved me from a watery grave at
different times last summer.”
he had been challenged; but, more, he
couldn’t understand Cornell, and what
Hagan couldn’t understand he crushed. The
camp had learned to like the boy. He was
a good mate, strangely ready to sacrifice
himself to help a man out of trouble, and he
rubbed along well with most of the men.
But Hagan was blind to that. He bullied
Cornell persistently, without relaxing. At
meals, out on the tram-track during the day,
in the long hut at night, he stung the boy
with sneers and threats, came up to him
heavily and breathed mockingly in his face,
pushed and jostled him. Once they collided
in the door of the hut; Hagan flung him oft
like a cur. And before all this Cornell’s
weakling body cowered; he made no
attempt to retaliate. Dumbly, like a
dog, he went in terror night and
day. But his spirit never bent. He
had determined to stick it out until
he had completed what lie considered
was his duty; and whilst his body
trembled his spirit stood up to his
ideals without flinching.
Cornell was working one day at
a loose rail in the middle of the Long
Cutting. The Long Cutting, with
its steep, smooth walls more than
twice the height of a man, lies
round a slight bend
at the foot of a
long stretch of
tram - track that
runs straight up
the face of Mount
Tundarra at a
grade of about one
in five. Three trucks
loaded with steel
rails—loaded badly,
with so little clear-
ance-room that Cor-
nell had to climb on
the front and jump
off the back —had
just ascended,
drawn slowly by the
steam-winch above
the camp. Hagan
came up on his way
from the mill;
stopped beside him.
Quickly Cornell
glanced up, the sun
glinting from the
rail to his flaxen
hair: then, without
speaking, he bent
low r er over his work.
Hagan stirred him
with his heavy boot.
“H o w ’r e ye r
going, Sniveller?”
Cornell seemed to
shrink a little into himself, hut he made no
move.
“Not speaking ?” With a playful dig Hagan
pushed him over.
Cornell sprawled for a moment; then liis
legs bunched together and he was standing
up to Hagan, screaming foolishly with his
hands at his side:
“Go on ! Hit again, you brute ! Go on !
You can’t.”
Hagan’s face was convulsed by an emotion
that he mistook for loathing. He struck out,
but almost before he had struck he knew
it was fear that ran through him—the
super-physical fear of a man standing in the
shadow of a great revelation.
As Cornell rose, with blood running from
a cut on his upper lip, Hagan made an invol-
untary step backwards. Body quivering like
a leaf, Cornell pressed close to him. His
face was white with a white-hot passion
and the glare of the fanatic blazed in his
eyes.
“Again ! Again ! Damn you ! Again !
His voice rose to an insane scream. “Do
you think you can break my soul? You
can’t break my soul ! You can’t break my
soul! Go on! Again! I’ll stand up for
Christ! I’ll carry His word on. You can’t
stop me. You can’t!”
And Hagan, dimly understanding his
words, dimly comprehending the fury of
faith and passion in which they were forged,
recoiled, fearing. For the first time he was
conscious that lie was in the presence of
something great and abstract and _ eternal,
something that would grind over him as a
steam-roller grinds over a pebble.
But Cornell held close to him, magnifi-
cently transfigured by passion, pouring out
in a torrent of words his faith, his hope;
how he would succor the weak and support
the troubled, working his way from place to
place; how, whilst life was in him, he would
be the servant of Christ and men.
Understanding came to Hagan like a burst
of white light; he stared dazedly at the
radiant figure before him.
Far above them something cracked in the
still mountain air with the sharp finality of
a rifle-shot: then a faint scream and fainter
shouting. These sounds awoke Hagan from
his stupor without liis comprehending their
terrible significance. He turned away
slowly and stumbled clumsily up the cutting,
stepping from sleeper to sleeper. To help
others.... work for others.... What was
that rattling noise, that shouting? Nothing.
To be kicked, about like a dog and come back
for more... .for others.... Christ! The
boy had guts Something—something big
you couldn’t touch Silently, in his mind,
three words formed themselves: “You win,
Sniveller.”
Then, louder and nearer, the crashing,
rattling noise broke in on his consciousness,
a clanking metallic rumble that filled the
cutting, like—Christ, like a runaway truck.
The thought of sudden death found him
almost cool. One of those trucks loaded with
rails —in the cutting with less than a toot
clearance!
ANOTHER MISUNDERSTANDING.
YOUNG HUSBAND (seeing wife sewing a tiny garment) : “Oh,
darling, you don’t mean?”
LITTLE WIFE: “Yes, dear, I’m making all my own clothes now."
His first impulse was to leap at the wall
of the cutting; his second to warn Cornell.
He swung round. Cornell was standing
up without having fully realised the danger.
Then something white seemed to rush into
his face. He wheeled and began* to run
wildly down the cutting; stumbled and fell.
“The fool’s running the wrong way,’’
grated Hagan between his teeth.
The clanking roar vibrated along the walls
of the cutting now, with the truck nearing
the bend. Hagan made his choice. The
walls where he was standing were only about
Bft. high; 20 yards further down they
rose to 14ft.
There was a chance. He flung himself over
the intervening space. The truck swung
round the bend, jumped at the rails, righted
itself and thundered down, its load filling
the cutting from wall to wall. Hagan swung
Cornell on to his shoulder —knew before he
started back that the truck would beat him.
Couldn’t think now- —only a dazzling mass of
steel rushing to envelop them.
He felt the tightening of his muscles as
he lifted Cornell above his head, felt the.
agony of that tremendous heave —then dark-
ness.
& # ❖
Many men crowded into the cutting. They
knew Hagan by his sombre red hair. And,
on the bank above, Cornell was whimnering
softly, like a child
L. T. LUXTON.
“Lagani-Namo”: Twenty years ago, before
we began civilising the Purari cannibals, the
floor-space from end to end of their long
iravies was littered with the skulls of crocs.,
dogs, pigs and gigantic fish. Crazy bamboo
bridgeways led from them to the family
domiciles, and the fronts of these were deco-
rated with racks of hundreds of human
skulls. Many had a neat clean cut just
above the ear, made for the withdrawal of
whatever brains the victim may have had.
The useful-looking daggers then worn by
warrior bucks were made out of human tibia.
At the back of the iravies and past the rami-
draped Simisi masks and Kaiva-Kuku effigies
hung a stinking curtain of tappa fibre, stiff
and heavy with the blood and grease col-
lected from the fingers of the ghouls who
handled the cadavers in the charnel chamber-
just beyond. In this murky closet were
several huge wicker-work monsters, like gob-
lin fish, with cavernous mouths. It was cus-
tomary to place the human meat inside these
to season ere distributing it to the populace
from the platform of the iravi to be gar-
nished with sago and roasted by the women.


Cl diode Hence-diode *Ptoof
KANGAROO
s. BRAND
/
/
#5
%
=i
si
l§S
il
=®)= :
kr
111
=5 :
=a£
i
=au
i Mm
“RING LOCK,” THE LOCK THAT WILL NOT SHIFT
Ring Lock Fencing is made from the finest open-hearth galvanised steel, specially selected for
quality, strength and heavy galvanising, and provides material of extraordinary resistance to
weather, stock, etc. The special feature is the “Ring Lock’’ join, as illustrated, which ensures
rigidity, prevents sagging, allows of greater space, and obviates the expensive use of intermediate
standards. It practically eliminates the need of repairs, and is easily erected.
“RING LOCK’’ FENCING is made in our own Factory by Australian Workmen for
Australian Farmers, and is heavy 10-gauge throughout, with Droppers 12 inches apart:
No. I—An ideal Sheep Fence, five lines spaced 5,6, 7 and 8 inches apart, 26 inches high—-
PRICE: In 5-Chain Rolls 6/9 per chain, or £23/10 /- per mile.
No. 2—A Fine Sheep or Cattle Fence, six lines spaced 5,6, 7, 8 and 10 inches apart, 36 inches high:
PRICE: In 5-Chain Rolls 8/3 per chain, or £29/10/- per mile.
kĵk;kj;kl'l
“KANGAROO” BRAND FARM GATES
Made from specially selected I f-inch steel tubing. All joints are electrically welded, also where
stays and struts are inserted, thus making them neater, stronger, more effective and watertight.
kĵk;kj;kl'l
Fig. 83.—N. Gate. A firm favorite.
Price, without scroll: 9 feet wide, 34/-J
10ft., 35/-; 1 Ift., 37/6; 12ft., 39/- ea.
Fig. 91.—Double Driveway Gate. Price:
10 feet wide, 50/-; lift., 53/-; 12ft.,
55/6; 13ft., 58/6; 14ft., 61/-; 15ft.,
66/-; 16ft., 69/- each.
Kig. \ZZ. —hive-stay Gate. Stayed in
every direction. Price: 10 feet wide,
45/-; lift., 48/-; 12ft., 51/- each.
Fig. 156.—Double Driveway Gates.
Price, without scrolls: 8 feet wide,
69/-; 9ft., 74/-; 10ft., 76/6; lift.,
79/6; 12ft., 82/6 each.
Fig. 85.—Four-bar Gate. An old fav-
orite. Very heavy and strong. Price:
10 feet wide, 49/-; lift., 52/-; 12ft.,
55/- each.
Fig. 150.—Cross-stay Gate. 8 feet
wide, 32/6; 9ft., 35/-; 10ft., 37/6;
1 Ift., 40/-; 12ft., 42/6 each.
M anufacturers
D. & W. CHANDLER LTD.
“The Firm with the Reputation”
276 to 294 Brunswick Street, FITZROY : : Or 234 to 236 Flinders Lane, MELBOURNE.
EST. 1876. FITZROY ’PHONE UUS (5 LINES). CITY ’PHONE F 4176 (2 LINES).
Write for our fully-illustrated Fence and Gate Catalogue. It solves the problem.


EVERREADY
: TORCHES i
The Worlds Best
took Cnr ik» TndasMffcV
A genu Ewiyubtrt.
Write for Illustrated Catalogue.
The E ver-Ready Co. (Gt. Britain) Ltd.
163 Pitt Street* Sydney
'v-T'V-
'V
.X V
8 "<
•:•* s
®L. "Xi
.•■T\
X
| / /
l
'! SB. V,..-
®L x
- - —;.-•••'
AUSTRALIAN AGENTS: R. TOWNS & CO., SYDNEY.
A wonderful
body builder"
kĵk;kj;kl'l
is always J
fresh & pure
*
In 4 sizes
oFall Chemists & Stores
THE MAN
ON THE LAND'S
PAGE
BYER'S
HOTEL WINDSOR
CBPARK & CASTLEREAGH STS SYDNEY
A NEW FERTILISER.
“Yeoman” : Working on the theory of the
“law of minimum” a S.A. chemist has!
evolved a new sort of fertiliser which is
said to contain all the elements that con-
stitute plant food. It is also claimed
that it contains a culture of nitrogenous bac-
teria, with a food that enables bacteria to
thrive, if not multiply, until they find a home
in _ the soil. The “Law of Minimum,” in
brief, is that, if aify one of the seven essen-
tial plant foods be deficient in a soluble form,
the growing crop can only draw on the other
six plant foods, and, in turn, assimilate its
quota of carbon from the atmosphere, to the
extent that the deficient element is available.
For example, a 20-bushel crop of Avhcat
takes from the soil 141 b. phosphoric acid,
1211 b. nitrogen, 201 b. potash, 61b. lime, 51b.
magnesia, lib. iron oxide and 31b. sulphuric
acid. If only 71b. of phosphoric acid be
available—to be available it must be in a
soluble form, because plant foods are only
absorbed in solution —only a 10-bushel crop
can be grown. And only half the quantity
of the other six plant foods will be used in
comparison with the requirements of a 20-
bushel crop, no matter how much of them is
present in an available form.
While phosphoric acid is notoriously de-
ficient in our wheat soils it does not follow
that all the other six plant foods are avail-
able in sufficient quantity to produce a
maximum crop. For that reason complete
reliance on phosphoric acid (in the form of
“super.”) is unscientific.
The Agricultural Department in S.A. has
condemned the new fertiliser without trial,
and has publicly stated that the claims as to
its special fertilising properties are much ex-
aggregated and that, although it is being sold
at £l6 per ton, it is not so good as “special
manure No. 6.” The Fertiliser Act in S.A.
requires that only the percentages of phos-
phoric acid, nitrogen and potash contained
in an artificial manure be given. The makers
of the new manure have complied with the
law, and the department has apparently
judged it on a partial analysis.
The writer has tested this new fer-
tiliser and has found that with only 301 b.
per acre it gave better results than where
901 b. of ordinary super, was applied. Next
season he will have the whole of his wheat-
crop dressed with the new manure. A fea-
ture generally noticed is that the crop grown
veith the new fertiliser keeps green longer
than crops dressed with super., and is free
from fungus diseases, even though such dis-
eases are present in the same paddock where
super, has been applied.
THAT NEW THEORY OF SOIL
MOISTURE.
“Willow”; The “revolutionary” theory of
director West discounting the value of fal-
lowing clean ground, described by “Yabbie”
(B. l/12/’27), will remain revolutionary and
a theory for many years until it is proved in
practice that as good crops can be grown on
clean, unfallowed land in lean years as are
grown on well-worked soil. Experiment is
the basis of all science, and any sceptic
doubting the value of cultivation as a means
of moisture conservation pan readily be con-
vinced in a year such as this by taking a
spade and digging up six inches of adjoining
fallowed and unfallowed paddocks. In the
office of district-surveyor Harnett, at Hay, is
a fine specimen of crop grown on two inches
of rain, the land having been well worked for
12 months previous to sowing. The crop on
the adjoining land (unworked) was six
inches high and failing when the sample was
obtained.
A TIP FOR THE MALLEE FARMER.
“Glenfield” : The year following every big
drought in the Mallee has been a specially
good one for wheat-growing. Nature seems
determined to atone for the failure of the
previous season, and wheat will grow almost
anywhere. Knowing this, many cockies who
farm on safe lines break their rotation for
once and put in 100 acres or so of stubble
land in addition to their fallow. In my
experience they have never had reason to
regret it.
Experience also shows that once the good
season has passed, Cocky must get back to
the safe rotation at once. The new settler,
flushed with success, will be eager to have
another go with the stubble land next year;
but that’s a mug’s game.
An observation made in years following a
big drought was that stubble land worked
lightly and shallowly after the rain—scari-
fied lightly, drilled and harrowed—gave
bushels to the acre more, and cleaner crops,
than stubble land ploughed or double scari-
fied to any depth.
ABOUT DOWSERS.
“N.M.L.”: Next to the birth of the kan-
garoo there is no subject more Avidely de-
bated among bushmen than water divining.
Marsupial obstetricians come and go; but
the dowser —or water-diviner —is with us all
the time. Almost without exception, those
for whom a forked stick will twirl will state
definitely there’s water underneath. They
may never have had a site tested, on their
judgment there may never have been a hole
sunk; but that doesn’t matter —the fact of
a stick twisting is proof positive of water
below. Some fellows profess to tell by the
action of the stick what the quality of the
Avater may be. Salt held in the palm of
the hand will make the stick lie passive if
the water below is salty. Silver with some
has the same effect. A reverse movement
of the stick with others is indicative of
brackish water.
Of course, some men have had wonderful
success, and their divinations have bordered
on black magic. Against that we can set
the fact that other men are rank failures
except in their own estimation, and also
that the most successful when in ucav country
are likely to err and land their followers in
heavy expense. Taking it for granted that
some men may find Avater in some country,
it doesn’t necessarily follow that they’ll be
successful everywhere and every time. Who
can say that a hearty meal, a fit of temper,
bodily fatigue or anything else mightn’t
transpose the delicate magnets in their bodies
—if there are such things? I’ve known a
dowser influenced, and strongly influenced,
by a nip of whisky. This man had held a
forked stick all day, traversing about 60
miles of country, and never a quiver did that
stick show. But with the whisky the stick
came to life and was a living thing, dancing
in ecstasy while the effect of the whisky
lasted. In less than half an hour it died
again and lay a dead thing in the hands of
the dowser.
I’m neutral on the subject. But I’ve been
associated with many dowsers in their work
and I’ve never yet known a case of a dowser
striking a stream at other than a right
angle. I’ve never known ’em fail to find a
site with, so they say, abundance of water,
on any part of the station where it was
needed. And in every case where a well
or bore has been sunk without the aid of a
dowser, that gifted mortal, when he sees it,
will walk round and point out that the shaft
has just tapped a stream, “Another four
feet over here would have missed it alto-
gether,” they’ll say; “and had it been 18
inches this way it would have been fair in
the middle of the stream.”
For my part, a stick lies dormant with
me where in more gifted hands it springs to
life. But I’ve sunk a lot of holes in the
ground to varying depths. Nine times out of
10 the site was carefully picked, and my
successes have been as many in proportion as
those of any dowser.
RECORD WHEAT YIELDS.
“Villers-Brett.” : The record yield to date
for a fair area of wheat was garnered at
Kewell in the Wimmera in 1921. From 110
acres of Huf’s Imperial (Wannon) wheat
59 bushels per acre were stripped. It was
sovm with 581 b. seed to the acre and 1101 b.
super. In 1924 at Longerenong Ag. Col.
from 120 acres Federation 53 bushels to the
acre Avere harvested. This was sown with
801 b. seed and 1401 b. super. The areas in
both instances were properly measured, not
stepped. Yields of 60 bushels and over on
small areas have been reported, but proof
of accurate measurement is lacking in most
instances.
THE COW’S BALANCED RATION.
“Hatter”: Despite “Ino” (B. l/12/’27),
Denmark, under adverse conditions, has
achieved results which would have been
quite impossible without that attention to
scientific feeding which “Ino” affirms is an
“economic impossibility” for butter produc-
tion in Australia. It is this attitude of
mind that I wish to challenge from a
commonsense standpoint. Satisfactory growth
of young animals, satisfactory milking of
cows, and satisfactory work from horses
can only be obtained from food containing
the necessary albuminoids. If, for instance,
a young animal requires to digest, say, 12oz.
of albuminoids a day, it can obtain this
amount from 31b. of linseed cake, which in
combination with rough fodders such as
roots or hay would supply its needs. Of
good hay alone it would require 141 b., and
if fed on straw and roots alone it would require
141 b. of the former and 501 b. of swedes —a
quantity it could not possibly consume in a
day. Practical men know an ill-nourished
animal by its shape. The obvious reason is
that it consumes much more than it should
in order to obtain the albuminoids it re-
quires. Such animals are always hungry.
Denmark finds it most convenient to feed
on imported cakes of various kinds and home-
grown roots, red beet for preference, which
together form a satisfactory diet. Australian
farmers, with home-grown wheat, bran,
lucerne and other leguminous hays ap,d
fodder crops, could easily supply sufficient
albuminoids if they were only convinced of
the need for it and knew the proportional
values. Oats are a well-balanced ration in
themselves, as also are the hays made from
lucerne, sainfoin, clover or vetches. Roots
of all kinds are rich in carbohydrates, but
deficient in albuminoids, but when mixed
with good hay make a suitable ration for
stores, dry cows, ewes, etc.
Peas and beans have, however, an excess
of albuminoid, and can be usefully mixed
with roots or poor hay. A properly-balanced
ration is one in which the concentrated food,
combined with the coarse foods, supplies the
animal with the constituents it requires—1 in
S of albuminoids is a fair average diet, though
this should be increased to 1 in 5 for growing
stock and 1 in 4 for topping up when fatten-
ing. Scientific feeding must always produce
the best results, and when the results are
compared with the costs, it will always be
found the most economical.
IS INCREASED FARM PRODUCTION
POSSIBLE?
“Villers-Brett.”: Although it is a truism
that a decrease in prices must be met by
an increase in production, many practical
farmers say it can’t be done. At the same
time they will probably find many of. their
neighbors are doing it. When the price of
butter-fat falls so low that the herd is being
milked at a loss, how, they ask, is it pos-
sible to increase production without increas-
ing the cost? One way is to run more cows
and better cows on the same feed. At a
low estimate at least three times as many
stock can be carried on a given area by cut-
ting and feeding the fodder crops outside the
paddock. Dairymen could with great profit
to themselves practise this method of feed-
ing. Stock grazing on fodder crops destroy
much more than they eat by tramping down
and fouling. When the crops are cut and fed
it takes less land to support the same num-
ber of stock. They feed in greater comfort
and keep in better condition, with a conse-
quent increase in the milk flow. Stock
become more docile and fence-breaking habits
decline. A greater quantity and better
quality of manure is produced and is avail-
able to be transported where it is needed
most.
The wheat-grower has to face the same
problem. In a system of good farming it is
an axiom that as crop yields increase the
bushel-costs of production decrease. A fall
in prices must be met with well-worked fal-
low, pedigreed seed and applications of super,
up to the margin proved most profitable for
the district. The free-and-easy farmer who
does not follow out these principles will,
when wheat prices are low be threatened
with insolvency.
MILKERS’ RECORDS.
“Mac” : The average milker on the North
Coast of N.S.W. would just about reach
the same mark as that of the Maorilander.
There are many claims made as to records,
but I think the following two will take some
beating. A good many years ago now a mau
named Byce, at Bogong, near Nowra, milked
25 cows in a few seconds under the hour,
for a wager of £5O. The cows were bailed up
ready for him, and his working dress was a
bathing suit. The other swift milker was
Ernie Walker, of Kangaroo Valley. He did
his own bailing-up and still managed to
account for 18 cows in the hour. The cows
were in average milk, and were not picked
easy milkers. It was done for a 10s. wager
during the day’s work.
THE TOUGH COW.
“Paul C.”: Notwithstanding “Yufu” (B.
24/11/’27), experience proves that toughness
in cows is due more to heredity than to
carelessness or bad milking, and on this
account the dairyman who has a tough cow
should dry her off and fatten her for the
butcher as soon as possible. Breeding from
tough cows is a mistake, no matter w r hat
quantity of milk they give. It doesn’t pay to
literally drag the milk from them by brute
force in sickly streams about as thick as a
spider’s web.
Further, dairymen should exercise far
more care than they usually do when
selecting a sire for their herds. As like
begets like, the bull should be the offspring
of a line of not only first-class milkers as
regards quantity, and none showing less than
a four cream-test; but his ancestors in the
female line should be cows of well-balanced
udders and full-sized teats.
As for “Yufu’s” plan of messing about
cows’ teats with petroleum-jelly, it simply
isn’t practicable.
MENDING A HORSE’S BROKEN LEG.
“Fred Rich”: Although as a rule horses
that have broken a leg are destroyed, it is
not absolutely necessary to do so unless the
break is a particularly bad one. With care
and patience the animal may be made per-
fectly sound for breeding purposes and light
work by setting the injured leg and placing
the horse in a sling until the break is
knitted. This does not entail the trouble
that some people think. Put four strong
posts (with pulleys attached near the top)
firmly in the ground. If the soil is of a
loose nature they should be down four feet.
They must be sufficiently far apart to enable
a stout rope to be passed under the horse’s
belly fore and aft. The ropes should be
heavily padded, and the outer padding must
be soft to prevent chafing. A feeder should
be placed so that the animal can eat without
effort, and water should be given when re-
quired. Hard dry feed should not be given
if it can be avoided, but in cases where other
fodder is unobtainable and dry feed is used
a laxative must be added. The horse’s legs
should be raised from the ground only a
few inches. It will be found comparatively
easy to do this and to keep the anirpal
from putting its weight on the injured leg.
Be sure the splints are firm when you set
the break and there is every chance of a
permanent cure. The treatment should take
about three weeks.
WILLOWS AS FODDER.
- “1.F.T.”: “Mullarula” (B. 8/12/’27) is
quite right as regards the value of willows
as fodder trees; and he might have added
to their advantages that when lopped not
too severely they readily sprout again. Wil-
low leaves and green branchlets also are not
constipating as are casuarines and, in a
lesser degree, kurrajongs. The salicylic acid
in willows is beneficial to stock, which, as
all cattle-owners know, keep the branches
cropped back as high as they can reach.
Some years ago the. Department of Agri-
culture notified that it was prepared to dis-
tribute young fodder trees to settlers, and the
writer, who then owned a New' England
dairy-farm, applied for some, at the same
time advocating willows for those who had
streams, dams or moist land on their hold-
ings. The department sent mostly kurra-
jongs and alders. It then considered wil-
lows as not altogether suitable because they
lost their leaves in winter. But in subse-
quent years the department has recommended
these picturesque and useful trees, which are
of rapid growth, and afford, as “Mullarula”
says, both summer shade and fodder. The
alders are too slow in growth, and kurra-
jongs, though suitable for fodder, are not so
umbrageous as willows nor as rapid in
growth.
EDUCATING THE SHEEP-DOG.
“Lucerne Flea”: Here’s a tip for training
young sheep-dogs. Put a collar on the pup
and, fasten him with 15 inches of light chain
to the collar of an old, experienced sheep-
dog, and then work a mob of quiet sheep
for a few minutes with the coupled dogs.
Repeat this every day if possible for a
week, and then gradually increase the time
to half an hour a day. In a couple of
months’ time the pup’s education will be
completed. Should the old dog run too fast
for the pup to keep up, loosen the oldster’s
collar and bind one of his forepaws in it.
This compels him to go slowly. A pup can
be educated in this way without acquiring
any faults.
RELIEF FOR NORTHERN GRAZIERS.
“Dalgonally”: The Queensland Govern-
ment is going half-heartedly about its job
of improving the conditions of the sheep and
cattle industry. After considerable delay an
inquiry was made into the state of the jum-
buck trade, which found out (as everyone
knew) that a lot of sheep had died, and is
supposed to have said that some remisssion
of rents and taxation was imperatively neces-
sary. If it did make any such recommen-
dation the fact has been kgpt quiet officially,
and so far nothing has been done in the
way of relief, the Government’s most voci-
ferous and influential supporters being still
of the opinion that the rougher you treat the
golden goose the more eggs she is likely to
lay, though the Government has grown to
know better. As to the cattle, no inquiry
has been held yet, though the beef-raiser is
in an infinitely worse case than the wool-
and mutton-producer. Pressed in Parliament
the other day regarding the delay, the Pre-
mier said it was due to the difficulty of
obtaining representative and competent men
to conduct the inquiry. Naturally, the Gov-
(Continued on page J/7.)


Banking, Public Companies, etc.
THrADSTRAUAN BANK
OF COMMERCE LTD.
Authorised Capital £5,000,000
Capital Paid Up and Reserves .. .. £3,305,130
Aggregate Assets at 30th June, 1927 .. £18,366,29 7
Directors: Sir Mark Sheldon. K.8.E., Chairman ;
Frank N. Yarwood; 11. R. Lysaght, 0.8. E. ;
George J. Sly, LL.D.; Lieut.-Col. T. L. F. Rut-
ledge ; James Kell.
General Manager: C. M. C. Shannon.
Chief Inspector: VV. G. Hull.
HEAD OFFICE, SYDNEY (Corner George and King
Streets).
Branches and Receiving Offices at 158 places in
New South Wales.
BRISBANE (264 Queen Street).
Branches and Receiving Offices at 27 places in
Queensland.
MET.BOURNE (325 Collins Street).
ADELAIDE (35 Rundle Street).
PERTH, W.A. (73 St. George’s Terrace).
LONDON (37 Threadneedle Street, E.C.2).
Manager: A. F. Jenkins.
London Directors :
A. Dodds Fairbairn, Alfred Shepherd, James Tukb,
Agents throughout Australia. Tasmania and New
Zealand, and at all the Chief Cities of the World.
Every description of Banking Business Transacted.
Bank of New Zealand.
SYDNEY BRANCH:
Corner GEORGE and WYNYARD
STREETS.
MELBOURNE BRANCH:
347 COLLINS STREET.
Guaranteed Stock .. .. .. £529,988
Preference Shares .. .. .. 1,875,000
Long Term Mortgage Shares .. 374,197
Ordinary Shares .. .. .. 3,750,000
Reserve Fund and Undivided Profits 3.609,655
GRANTS DRAFTS on Australia, New
VTJAiill 1 O Riviirio Zealand, Fiji, Samoa,
Great Britain and Ireland, and other places.
RECEIVES DEPOSITS ?‘ or IB *K
periods and Jransacts all other usual Banking business.
Australian Mutual
Established
1849.
87 H pitt PfOVidSJ\t Society
The Largest anti Most Successful
Mutual Life Office in the British Empire,
Distributes a Cash Bonus Every Year.
Amount Distributed for single year 1926 £2,887,200
Yielding Reversionary Additions to
Policies of over £4,893,000
Accumulated Funds .. .. .. £63,600,000
Annual Income £9,600,000
The Society transacts Every Class of Ordinary
and Industrial Assurance Business.
H. W. APPERLY, F.S.S., General Manager.
HOTEL
METROPOLE,
. . . SYDNEY.
Opposite Union Club and Two Minutes
from Entrance to Domain and Circular
Quay.
TARIFF from 18/6 per day, or apart-
ments may be secured separately by the
day from 6/6 and upwards. Cards of Tariff
and all particulars posted on application
to The Manager.
WANT TO MAKE
MONEY ?
“The ‘Wild Cat’
Monthly,”
published on the first Saturday of
every month, will help you in your
dealings with shares.
Hundreds of thousands of pounds
are lost annually in Wild Cat com-
panies. “The ‘Wild Cat’ Monthly”
will help you to identify them.
As valuable for the Smallest
Investor as for the Largest. In fact,
the small investor needs it most.
Published by “The Bulletin,” 2/-
per single copy; 22/6 per annum.
Missing Friends.
FROWNING, ROY, aged about 16, son of
AMELIA DOWNING, will hear some-
thing to his advantage if he communicates
with
NATIONAL TRUSTEES CO.,
113 Queen Street, Melbourne.
OLIVE MARTHA PASCO, deceased.
VY7ANTED the next of kin of OLIVE
. MARTHA PASCO, late of the City
Chichester, England, deceased. Claimants
should forward their claims to the under-
signed, accompanied by a pedigree, showing
their relationship to the deceased and the
necessary certificates in support and evidence
thereof.
Dated 31st October, 1927.
ARNOLD, COOPER & TOMPKINS,
Solicitors,
Chichester, England.
Shipping, etc.
~v-j
>
n. . ..»« IW/v»,IK.
TATES
6 Can ad,
Unite
Europe
BBSBIIB
across Hie racific
andJVcrltiAmerica
W- TRAVEL BY THE
CAN ADI AN-AUSTRAL ASIAN LINE
TO VANCOUVER
(via Auckland, Suva and Honolulu),
Or by the
UNION ROYAL MAIL LINE
TO SAN FRANCISCO
(via Wellington, Rarotonga and Tahiti).
Through bookings to and from Canada, United States and Europe
with the choice of any railway route across the American Continent
and of any steamship line across the Atlantic.
UNION STEAM SHIP COMPANY, LTD.,
SYDNEY and MELBOURNE.
YOUR NEXT HOLIDAY!
Take a Trip to the South Sea Isles.
REGULAR SAILINGS FROM SYDNEY TO
New Guinea, Papua, Solomons, Lord
Howe Island, Norfolk Island and New
Hebrides.
TRIPS OF 3h TO 5 WEEKS
Affording a Restful Holiday Amongst Beautiful
Scenery and Interesting Native People.
kĵk;kj;kl'l
58^
U Z
STEAMSHIP BOOKINGS ARRANGED TO
ENGLAND CANADA JAPAN
EUROPE AFRICA CHINA
AMERICA INDIA JAVA, etc.
At regular passage rates. No extra charge.
ALL LINES. CHOICE OF ROUTES.
Attractive Tours to
NOUMEA, JAVA, HONOLULU, COLOMBO, etc.
VISIT JAVA (The wonderland of the East).
Regular monthly sailings of the s.s. “Marella” and
m.s. “Malabar” to Java and Singapore via Queensland
ports, Thursday Island, Darwin, etc. Smooth-water trip,
Deck Cabins, interesting ports of call.
APPLY
BURNS, PHILP & CO., LTD.,
WORLD TOUR and TRAVEL DEPARTMENT.
7 BRIDGE STREET, SYDNEY.
BANK OF NEW SOUTH WALES.
Established 1817.
PAID-UP CAPITAL
RESERVE FUND
RESERVE LIABILITY
V'i-
£7,423,440
5,650,000
7,423,440
£20,496,880
Directors:
Thomas Buckland, Esq., President.
Charles Binnie. Esq.
James M. Dunlop, Esq.
Robert L. Faithfull, Esq., M.D.
Robert W. Gillespie, Esq.
Franc B. S. Falkiner, Esa.
The Hon Reginald J. Black, M.L.C.
Auditors: ~S. E. Laidley, Esq. ; A. G. Milson, Esq. M f na^ r , : °f CA ]*
Head Office —George Street, Sydney. London Office 9 1 nreadneedle Street, E.C.
514 Branches and Agencies in the Australian States, Federal Territory, New Zealand. Fiji, Papua,
Mandated Territory of New Guinea and London. Agents and Correspondents throughout the world.
Cable remittances made to, and drafts drawn on Foreign places DIRECT. Foreign Bills
negotiated and collected. Letters of Credit Issued, negotiable throughout the world.
“THE WOMAN’S MIRROR’
Contains everything that women should know, from kitchen to
drawing-room, from the cradle to old age.
FREE PATTERN EVERY WEEK.
It is the most remarkable Threepennyworth ever printed.
“THE WOMAN’S MIRROR.”
PUBLISHED EVERY TUESDAY,
Price ------- 3d.
Shipping, etc.
Inter-State Steamship
Sailings.
(Passenger Sailings—Circumstances permitting.)
FOR MELBOURNE, ADELAIDE and FREMANTLE
(Transhipping at Melbourne for Geelong and other
Victorian ports; at Adelaide for S.A. Gulf ports;
and at Fremantle for Perth, Bunbury, Geraldton
and North-West Ports).
FOR BRISBANE, MACKAY (no cargo for Mackayj,
TOWNSVILLE and CAIRNS (Transhipping at Bris-
bane for Maryborough, Bundaberg and Gladstone, and
at Townsville for outports).
South Africa and England
BLUE FUNNEL LINE
ABERDEEN LINE
WHITE STAR LINE
A combined service offering unequalled
facilities at moderate rates.
*Ascanius. . . 10,000 tons, Jan. 9
i Sue vie 12,500 ~ Jan. 17
i Runic 12,500 „ Feb. 21
tDemosthenes 11,500 ~ Feb. 27
±Medic 12,000 „ March 6
* Nestor 15,000 „ March 20
tCeramic. .. . 18,500 ~ March 20
tThemistocles 11,500 „ March 27
* Ulysses .... 15,000 ~ April 6
i'Euripides. . . 15,000 ~ April 21
* First class only. fFirst and Third class.
s“Cabin” class only.
For full particulars apply to
Gilchrist, Watt 8 Sanderson, Ltd.
Dalgety 8 Co., Ltd.
Joint
Agents
P. & O. via THE CAPE
SERVICE.
ONE CLASS ONLY.
To LONDON, via Durban & Capeto
Tons.
BAI.RANALD . 13,100
BARRABOOL . 13,100
BALLARAT .. 13,100
BARADLNE . . 13,100
BENDIGO .. 13.100
RELTANA
RENALLA
RORDA
BERRIMA
Tons.
. 11,100
. 11,100
. 11,100
. 11.100
Fares, from £37 to £45 to England, and
from £2l to £27 to South Africa.
AGENTS—GILCHRIST, WATT, SANDERSON.
I’el. R 6701-2-3. 5 O’Connell Street, Svdney.
Wills, Gilchrist & Sanderson, Ltd., Brisbane.
John Sanderson & Co., Melbourne.
Geo. Wills & Co., T.td.. Adelaide.
BRISBANE, via BYRON BAY
Through Tickets to Brisbane issued.
S.S. ORARA —Every Saturday evening; passengers
due Brisbane Monday afternoon.
S.S. WOLLONGBAR—Every Tuesday evening;
passengers due Brisbane Thursday afternoon.
Both vessels fitted with Wireless Receiving Sets.
BRISBANE:
FARES.—
Steamer and Motor throughout, Single, £4
Steamer and Motor throughout, Return, £7/5/-
.Steamer and First-class Rail, Single, £3/15/-
Steamer and Second-class Rail, Single, £3/8/-
NORTH COAST S. N. CO., LTD.,
Passengers’ Booking Office:
TOURIST BUREAU, CHALLIS HOUSE,
MARTIN PLACE, SYDNEY.
Brisbane Booking Agents: Burns, Philp and Co., Ltd.
Huddart ParkerLjM
Magnificent
Fast Passenger
Steamships
STEAMERS TO NEW ZEALAND—ReguIar sailings
from Sydney to New Zealand ports and vice versa.
Particulars to be obtained on application.
STEAMERS TO TASMANIA —From Sydney to Hobart
and vice versa as per daily papers. Between Mel-
bourne and Launceston as per daily papers.
For full particulars apply HUDDART PARKER LIMITED
Collins Street, Melbourne; Bridge Street, Sydney.
WATCHES
Twenty
World’s
Records


You don’t know shaving
comfort
until you
try Williams
Williams wins the approval
of many thousands of shavers
on the three most important
points a shaving soap can
score.
Moister Lather.
Williams works up fast into
a rich bulky lather simply
saturated with moisture.
That’s why it’s called a
saturated lather.
Softer beard.
This super moist, saturated
lather holds its moisture until
the mild, colourless soap has
completely lifted the beard’s
water-resisting oil film. Then
the lather’s moisture, which
has reached saturation point,
drenches the absorbent
bristles —soaks them soft.
Smoother shave.
A softer beard means a
smoother shave —no half-cut
hairs, no razor pull. That’s
why you get that “ barber’s
massage ” feeling with Wil-
liams.
Williams Holder Top Shaving Stick
costs 2/-, and re-loads with the
threaded metal ring which fits easily
into the old holder, 1/6. Williams
Shaving Cream costs 2/- per tube.
Send 3d. to Frazer &
Best, Ltd., Dept. 5.8.2,
Box 26 2 1 G.P.0.,
Sydney, for samples
of Williams Shaving
Cream and Aqua
Velva, the new after-
shaving liquid.
Williams
Holder Top Shaving Stick
kĵk;kj;kl'l
RAY'D'VAC
The Mark a f Superior Quality
HERE'S an electric torch that's
a dandy—dark nooks and
corners hold no secrets from you—-
safety at night is always assured —
it's theßay-O-Lite, the best you can
buy. Strong vulcanized fibre case,
for easy grip heavy
brass trimmings, nickel plated
and polished—patented lock
switch, cushioned to
prevent lamp break-
age,— these and
other advantages
reasons \ are the
why you
should use a
Ray-O-Li te.
Equipped with Ray-
0-Vac Batteries,youhavea
dependablesource of light worth
its cost the first few nights you use it.
Write our distributor for the name of
your nearest dealer.
French Battery Company
MADISON, WISCONSIN, U. S, A.
Distributor:
UNITED DISTRIBUTORS, Ltd.
Sydney, Melbourne, Adelaide and Brisbane, Australia,
Wellington, New Zealand.
Next year the bigger “Bulletin” won’t print as many short stories as the
“Saturday Evening Post,” but there will be over 200 of them, as good or
better, and ley will be Australian. Buy “The Bulletin”—bigger and better.
ernment does not want to appoint a com-
mittee of prejudiced pastoralists, but the
Bananaland Stock Department should be
able to supply a sufficient quota of reliable
experts. Or, in case the politician-ridden
Queensland civil service cannot be relied on
by the Premier for an unbiased verdict, why
not borrow the services of some of the stock
experts from the other States —particularly
N.S.W.? These would have nothing to fear
from telling the truth, and are quite com-
petent.
FOOT-AND-MOUTH DISEASE.
“Safety First” : The recrudescence of foot-
and-mouth disease in the Cold Country is
getting so serious that the authorities are
being hard put to it to deal with its spread.
Infection is so general that not only are the
wild animals, such as hares and rabbits, help-
ing to spread the disease, but .even the motor-
car is being blamed. Cars passing over roads
and other ground infected by the mouth and
other discharges of diseased beasts carry the
infection for miles on their tyres, transfer-
ring it to hitherto clean localities. A warn-
ing has been issued by the representative in
London of the Australian Meat Council
against the importation of stud or other
cattle from Blighty for some tim-e, till the
epidemic has been stamped out. The Federal
authorities should put the lid on further
importations at once. Our narrow escape
from rinderpest, which broke out in West-
ralia a year or two ago, should be borne in
mind. Fortunately it was possible to iso-'
late the western State till drastic action
had wiped out the disease. If it had not
been detected until it had reached the other
States, with their much more closely-settled
conditions and no intervening barrier of
unsettled country to prevent its spread from
one to the other, there would have been a
sorry tale to tell. Swine-fever, an imported
stock disease, has taken a heavy toll in
N.S.W. recently, and unless the greatest
care is maintained against the introduction
of foot-and-mouth disease to Australia, the
loss to the dairying and cattle industries
will be a thousand times greater than that
which has hit the pig-breeders so hard.
LOSS OF CUD.
“Fred Rich” : “Loss of cud” in cattle or
sheep is a common complaint, and although
not extremely dangerous causes the animal to
lose its condition quickly. It is really a
form of indigestion or impaction brought
about by eating harsh, dry or astringent
feed, and the affected animal can be easily
picked out by its moping manner and its
disinclination to chew its cud. In the case
of cattle, give a pint of raw linseed-oil as
a drench and follow up twice a day for
about three days with powders composed of
IT dram of nux vomica and 2 drams ammo-
nia carbonate in cold water or milk. The
dose for a sheep should be one-sixth this
quantity. Feed on any green feed available.
IN PRAISE OF THE LANGSHAN.
“XSA” : All credit to the White Leghorn
as a champion light-breed layer, but I am
prepared to bet that her heavier rival, the
Black Orpington, is well and truly on the
way to oblivion —and this in spite of an
alleged world’s laying record. The Aus-
tralian Langshan is slowly but very surely
establishing a claim not only to the heavy
breed, but all-breed title.
High production during the first laying
year does not by any means indicate what
the hen will do during the ensuing 12
months, and it is an absurd custom to breed
birds with one purpose in life—to lay them-
selves inside out during the first year of
their lives.
The Langshan will not only shape well dur-
ing the first year in any company, but will
continue the good work for three and indeed
up to five years, and maintain a very even
average throughout.
The Black Orpington, on the other hand,
naturally runs to beef after the first season,
and from thence onward is of great concern
to the poultryman either through perpetual
broodiness or heat-strokes during the sum-
mer months.
Being perhaps the most racily-built of all
heavy-breed layers of note, with a handy
killing weight of over 51b., the Langshan
causes the owner no loss when the old hen is
marketed. She does not run to gross fat,
as do most other heavies, and is in every
respect a good table bird.
Laying tests should determine the com-
plete productive capacity of each hen, and
if they prove any economic soundness in the
theory that a bird should be scrapped at
two years, then by all means retain the
fetich.
Langshan owners, however, know that over
the two first years their hens will lay well,
and also that the birds are profitable even
unto the fourth year.
As it costs at least 10s. to bring a good
pullet to the point of laying, experience with
the Langshan constitutes a good argument
for a revision of testing methods.
THE CHAMPION HEN.
“Villers-Brett.”: The hen that outlaid
“Geef’s” (B. l/12/’27) Queensland bird
roosts at Santa Cruz, U.S.A. ; 858 eggs in
365 days is her tally. The competition was
concluded in August last and the figures are
official.
TO COMBAT ROUP.
“Dai R.”: Sydney poultry-keepers have
been experiencing a good deal of trouble with
their stock _ (especially amongst the younger
birds) due in a great measure to the prevail-
ing unseasonable weather. Ducklings appear
to be the worst sufferers, a form of roup,
affecting the eyes, being of almost "State-
wide prevalence in N.S.W. In similar
trouble some years ago I was advised by
an expert to wipe the eyes of affected birds
with rag or cotton-wool dipped in a solution
of a teaspoonful of boracic acid to a cup
of hot water, give the sufferers plenty of
air space, and keep their quarters thoroughly
clean and bone-dry. To ensure the latter
he advised me to put a bucket-fire in their
house for half an hour morning and after-
noon. I followed these instructions, and
lost only three ducklings out of 82.
PINEAPPLES v. BANANAS.
“Cog”: “Cleveland” (B. l/12/’27) warns
growers on the N. Coast of N.S.W. against
adopting my advice to plant pineapples in
their old “bunchy-top infected” plantations
His argument as to summer glut fruit which
is sold to the canneries at low rates does
not hold good, for pineapples were a good
proposition in suitable districts when the
canners’ price was less than half the pre-
sent rate (ss. 2d.). It is the intermediate
(between seasons! crop that pays, and the
combination of suitable land, climate and
headwork will generally bring along a big
percentage of the crop as intermediates. In
such circumstances the glut crop which goes
to the canners can be counted on to pay
working expenses. “Cleveland” mentions the
failure of Beerburrum soldier settlement as a
warning. There were a lot of causes for that
failure, but the market price wasn’t one of
them. Beerburrum, with a subsidy of Is. per
case from the Government, could not carry
on, but outside growers did. I know, because
I was there.
The statement that “nowhere in the world
are pines produced entirely by handwork” is
incorrect. I know growers on the Blackall
Range (Q.) who from necessity, owing to
scrub stumps, started off with handwork, and
now would not dream of using any other
method of cultivation. Some of these are
among Queensland’s most successful growers.
The N.S.W. men could afford to pay a little
more in cultivation costs, as their market-
ing expenses would be lower than those of
Queensland growers.
MORE ABOUT CARPET GRASS.
“R.X.8.”: Carpet grass, alias Paspalum
compressum, mentioned on this page as an
excellent fodder grass with surprising drought-
resisting qualities, is now established on
several parts of the North Coast of N.S.W.,
but I have found it establishing itself under
such a diversity of conditions in other parts
of the State that it ought to be worth a
trial anywhere. Seed from a sandy soil in
a very hot and moist part of the North
Coast promptly provided a fine show of her-
bage in a heavy clay, and under cold and
bleak conditions,, at Berrima (N.S.W.), and
while a succession of heavy frosts cut the
growth down these it has come up smiling
again this spring. It should also have been
mentioned that it will provide a beautiful
lawn.
Sydney seedsmen quote the seed at 2s.
per lb. But the man who knows as much
about it as anyone, and who will tell all
about it on reouest, is Mr. Harrison, of
Cudgera Park, Burringbar, North Coast
(N.S.W.). “T.H.” (B. 8/12/’27) and others
interested should drop him a line, and he
will, no doubt, undertake to arrange a supply
of seed or roots.
HINTS FOR THE FARM.
. “Lily-Beale”: A good mixture for soften-
ing and preserving leather may be made by
mixing equal parts of mutton-fat and linseed-
on 1 with one-tenth their weight of Venice
turpentine. Melt together in an earthen
jar. To darken leather, apply a solution of
iron sulphate or copperas. ' For cleansing
and polishing brown leather dissolve two
parts soft soap in eight parts water and add
eight parts anatto solution. Then melt
three parts beeswax in eight parts turpen-
tine and three parts linseed-oil, stir in the
soap solution and keep stirring till cold.
“Hayband”: Here’s a tomato-growing
idea I’ve not seen tried in Australia. First
grow the plant in the ordinary way, well
manuring the ground for a yard all round
it. Later, take about four of the lengthiest
limbs and carefully peg them into the
ground. These promptly take root at the
point of contact so that the plant draws on
the ground at five points instead of one. In
California a plant thus treated is said to
have yielded 600 tomatoes.
“Ted R.” : To break fowls of the habit of
egg-eating provide them with good nests in
which the eggs cannot be broken. See that
they are never short of shell grit, that they
have salt regularly in their mash, and that
they are not overcrowded in small, bare runs.
“Paul C.” : Tjne vessels used in conveying
separated milk to calves, as well as the
troughs or other utensils from which they
drink, should not only be washed out daily
but should be scalded out with boiling water
after being washed. As a further prevention
of scours in calves, the milk should not be
fed to them cold, but should be warmed to
blood-heat by dropping a red-hot iron into it.
Old smoothing-irons, ploughshares, pieces of
chains or big horseshoes are suitable for this
purpose. Besides bringing the milk up to
the proper temperature there is supposed to
be some virtue derived from the hot iron
that is a preventive of scour. Should a
case of scour occur through neglect, the affec-
ted calf should be at once segregated from
the healthy ones.
“Silentio” : Now that hot weather is the
order of the day the laying hens need extra
attention if the egg-production is to be kept
up. In yards where there is scanty shade
it is a good plan to erect temporary shelters,
a few feet high, covering same with boughs
or old bags. If possible avoid iron, at it is
too hot. Grit and water can be placed
under the shelters, as cool water is an
essential to the layer. On a really hot day,
if shade is scanty, throw a few buckets of
water into the litter of the scratching shed,
or the floor of the roosting house. This
damp dust bath often saves a hen’s life.
“Hornby”: When erecting small sheds,
out-houses, etc., much longer life will be
given the structures if the posts used are
first dressed with a couple of coats of boiled
coal-tar, after the manner of telegraph posts.
The dressing will to a great extent prevent
the incursion of white ants and other timber
destroyers, and will also reduce the tendency
to rot. Many farmers dress only the under-
ground parts of the posts, but experienced
men know that it pays to dress the whole
length. Also they know that it pays to
kalsomine the rest of the woodwork, laying
it on particularly heavy in joints and cross-
ing places, as a defence against lice, wmod-
bugs, ticks and other pests.
“Villers-Brett.”: When horses scour badly,
take four or five rib bones of sheep and burn
to a white ash ; stir into one pint lukewarm
water and drench with mixture. If the
horse will eat, sprinkle bonedust on his
chaff.


Once you drive the Chrysler “70”
you*ll want no other car
%
Mm
&
a
0:
w.
21
DRIVE the Chrysler “70”
not a perfunctory demon-
stration over a standard route —
but a real test over all sorts of
roads in the way you are accus-
tomed to drive*
Do that and you’ll prefer the
dash and vigour of its smooth
performance to cars even much
higher priced*
Rutted roads lose their dread
beneath the cradling comfort of
its chrome vanadium springs,
its unique spring mounting
and its shock absorbers*
See how easily you direct it by
its pivotal steering gear. Feel the
sure safety of its four-wheel hy-
draulic brakes, and you*!! want
them above all others.
There , ll be no need for us to ex-
plain “70 beauty of line, colour-
ing, upholstery and appoint-
ment, for these instandy delight
and charm your eye. Every-
where the motor wise have ac-
claimed the Chryslet “70” Put
It To Your Own Exacting Tests
—yourself l
CHRYSLER “70
BUILT AS ONLY CHRYSLEK BUILDS
AUSTRALIAN AND NEK' ZEALAND DISTRIBUTORS.
N.SW.: Larke Neave & Carter Ltd., Grenville House, William Street, Sydney (,
Vic.-. Collins Motors Pty., Ltd., Chrysler House, Collins Street, Melbourne.
Qid. : Ward Motors Limited, Wickham Street, Brisbane.
Sth. Aust.: O. T. Rodda Motors Ltd., Flinders Street, Adelaide.
West Aust. : William Attwood, 299-301 Murray Street, Perth.
Tas.: Distributors Pty., Ltd., 162 Collins Street, Hobart.
H.Z. : Todd Motor Company, 97 Courtenay Place, Wellington,
99


“For twenty years 1 suf-
fered from, Piles and spent
quite a fortuke on doctors
and remedies, but could
yet no relief until I tried
Rexona Ointment. I only
used two 3/- tins and four
1/0 tins of Rexona Oint-
ment, and / am now quite
cured. I have not had a
return of the complaint
for two years, and I am
now seventy years old.”
Mr. C. Lees,
10 The Boulevard,
Dulwich Hill, N.S.W.
Here ? s the Remedy for
PiIes—REXONA, the
Rapid Healer
All who suffer from Piles are especially unfortunate
talk about their complaint. Theymust suffer in silence.
To all such Rexona comes as a great blessing, for it is
applied, and the result is always gratifying.
The distressing symptoms quickly
subside, and mind and body both feel
relief from the constant strain almost
after the first application In this
Ointment are combined juices and
essences in an entirely new and
unique manner, forming a remedy
justly celebrated as a Rapid Healer.
Rexona is especially valuable in the
treatment of piles. Those who try it
will not be disappointed.
in that they cannot
easily obtained, easily
REXONA- The
RAPID HEALER
(llltlllllfc.
Cooling
.V
joolhing
Healing
‘nntiseplic Ointmenl
Oiin^ es •? Absolulely
‘ - Haaic Reliable
Heals
THE RAPID HEALER
r A Reliable Healer for all Eruptions
and Irritalions of the skm. Eczema Sores. Cuts.
Burns Bruises. Sores. Sciatica. Piles Stings of Inseds
and all kinds of Inflammation
REXONA DEP 1 SHELDON DRUG L TO SVDNEY.
THE TRIANGULAR BOX
Chocolates
V
it
•/
HHM
ill*
lu —i
“I do like my Daddy—see
what he's brought me home!"
The Famous Red Box of Chocolates.
Mailed to you the day they are made.
Prices:
3/-, S/6, 6/-, 10/-, 12/6,
20/- and 30/-
Post free to any address fn Australia.
Send for Catalogue Illustrated with re-
productions of our Confectionery in color.
&L4\Jl6t WJHidA
162-166 Pitt
Street,
and Cr. George
& King Streets,
(next Theatre Royal),
Castlereagh St.
Sydney.
The Bride.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
I WENT to see her gifts displayed—
Gowns and furs, and costly silk,
Etchings, brass, and rich brocade;
Finest linen, white as milk ;
Ancient candlesticks, inlaid;
Quaint figures, ivory and jade.
With store of treasures fine and rare
The room took semblance of a square,
Where merchants hang their screens and
lace,
Their amber, scarves, and golden braid.
To think upon the little place
That I call home, by God’s good grace!
Just momently I was afraid-
But the bride-to-be, with heavy eyes,
Though conscious of my shocked surprise,
Sat listlessly in her padded chair
And paid no heed to the splendor there;
And the tall young groom stood pale and
taut,
His grey glance fraught with a world of
pain;
To her marble cheek cold lips he brought
And left the r00m.... Like golden rain
Light drifted down from the window’s ledge
While I, lest my dismay she trace,
Blindly, with swift-averted face,
Stared down at a dusty garden-hedge.
-For I knew they took an unknown sea
In a vessel laden with scented bales
And decked with fringed and purple sails,
Yet a cockle-shell in verity,
’Neath skies that gloomed such prophecy
Of sullen seas and endless gales.
She poured a heart before me there;
But, list’ning, it was borne on me
How very little she must care,
Doubting and unsatisfied,
That wealthy, lonely, little bride 1
When I stepped out into the glare
Of the garden once again, I seemed
To leave behind a vague despair—
Like a monster I had sometime dreamed.
And the sudden breeze that lightly leapt
In the manner of a swift caress,
For a humble home on a lone green hill
Brought me a world of thankfulness.
Though the only treasures I possess
Are such as the girl with brooding eyes
Professed profoundly to despise—
An atom with deep eyes of blue,
Another with a gaze of grey,
Their little whims, symbolic play,
My dreams for them (that I pray come
true!),
And a happiness almost too great
At their cot-side when the hour is late!
The bride bestowed her farewell kiss
With studied grace beside her d00r....
I thought of all that she would miss,.
And sent up thanks that I was poor!
QUEENSLAND.
E. M. ENGLAND.
Trapped.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
FROM almost every viewpoint the official
function which had terminated the life
and professional career of Mr. “Sugar”
McSmith was an outstanding success, as was
unreservedly admitted by all of the small but
exclusive gathering privileged to be present
at it, with, of course, the possible exception
of Mr. McSmith himself. None was of the
opinion that things could have gone off any
smoother than they had, and even the most
lowly of all the State’s functionaries, whose
responsibility it had been to provide a
smooth and easy passage for Mr. McSmith
from this world to a better, had come in for
a certain meed of grudging approval by
reason of his technique.
There had, indeed, been only one slight
and scarcely perceptible flaw in the whole
thing. All those present had united in
praising the cool courage and rather un-
expected sang-froid with which Mr. McSmith
had met his legal offtaking. That is to
say, up to a certain point; for it had been
noted by those closest to him that almost
at the very last moment his nerve had
seemed to abandon him and left him in the
grasp of an overwhelming terror. He had
appeared surprised, too, as though he had
just realised something he had not clearly
understood before, and had opened his
mouth to utter a startled exclamation. But
it had been only for an instant, that briefly
horrible second just before the hideous white
baker’s cap on his head had been swiftly
drawn down and the slim black lever at the
side of the little platform jerked back. So
that, if he had been about to mar an other-
wise satisfactory performance, as, subse-
quently, his enemies in the underworld were
fond of asserting, his weakness, momentary
and somewhat pardonable in the circum-
stances, had had a swift and sudden curtain
dropped on it, allowing him to come to his
end in accordance with the best traditions
of that rather nebulous code to which he
and his kind at times subscribed.
But that’s not really what happened at
all.
* * * *
“So that’s how it is,” said Mr. Solomon
Cohen to Mr. McSmith. “There ain’t a
dog’s chance of fixin’ it any other way, an’,
believe me, it’s been hard enough as it is.
The job was too ’ot, Smithy, too ’ot
altogether. There weren’t no need to go an’
shoot that poor teller bloke.” He paused
and looked in mild accusation at Mr.
McSmith, who sat upon a small stool while
his visitor occupied the only chair in the
place. They were in the condemned cell,
where Mr. McSmith had lain for the past
fortnight. It was a large and airy apart-
ment, not at all like the others which he
had occupied at different times during a
career which had earned for him neatly-typed
biographies in the card-index system of
every police headquarters in the Common-
wealth, and the warder whom the regula-
tions required to keep him company, lest he
should take it into his head to cheat the
State of its just and lawful vengeance on
his body, was outside in the corridor. Hus
by virtue of the fact that Mr. Cohen had
been his legal adviser, and so was entitled
to interview his late client alone.
li Yer sure it’s dinkum?” asked Mr.
McSmitli, with marked anxiety in liis tones.
“I mean, ’ow am I ter know it ain’t jest a
stall o’ some sort?”
His eyes narrowed down to mere suspici-
ous slits, giving an expression more un-
pleasant than ever to features which nobodj
could describe as even remotely pleasant and
speak the truth.
“Stall?” said Mr. Cohen, almost with
contempt. “Haven’t I told you? Hre, lia\e
a look at this.” From an inside pocket he
produced a letter and passed it to the other.
“That’s the letter I got from this feller 1
was tellin ’you about who’s fixed it all up.
Rea'd it and see what it says.
With much manipulation of eyebrows and
audible movement of liis lips, Mr. McSmitli,
who was plainly no scholar, perused tlie
typewritten lines. Whatever their impol c
was, they seemed to reassure him, tor lie
handed back the paper and grinned. But
there was still a faint trace of doubt m
the grin, and Mr. Cohen, observing this,
proceeded to assure him still further.
“Y’see, Smithy, it’s like this,” he said,
leaning forward and speaking in tones
pitched low enough not to reach to the ears
of the warder outside in the passage. As
I told you before, the job was too ot
altogether, and there ain’t the shadow of a
doubt that you were in it, whatever y’ say
yourself. An’ ye’re the only one they got.
Consequently, public opinion’s against you,
y’see. An’ if the Exec’tive was to go an
commute the sentence now, ten days before
the er—well, you know” —Mr. Cohen s
smooth and oily voice glossed gently over
the unpleasant reference —“well, there a be
the devil of an uproar. The papers d all be
kicking up a fuss, askin’ why you were let
off, an’ ’ow it’d been done, and there d be
plenty of time to reverse the decision.
There’s no tellin’ what the Gov ment
mightn’t do if it got scared. But if it’s left
right to the drop of the hat, so to speak
he noted the slight shudder which passed
through the other and hastened to find
another metaphor, but failed —“well, as late s
possible, there is nothin’ that can be done
to upset it, y’see. Because it's the law o
the land that if a feller’s reprieved under
such circumstances, it’s got to stand.
For the first time during the interview his
words seemed to bring real comfort to Mr.
McSmith, who brightened up perceptibly.
The other rose, as though to take his de-
parture. and Mr. McSmith stood up also.
“Well, that’s all, Smithy, ol’ sport, he
remarked lightly. “All you gotta do is sit
tight an’ don’t get scared, no matter how
late it’s left, ’cause it’ll be all right. An
whatever you do, keep yer mouth shut, or
you’ll spoil everything.” He glanced around,
and, seeing that the warder outside had
drawn a trifle closer, lowered his voice to
a whisper. “An’ if you let anybody kid you
into squeaking, it’ll settle it for keeps,
y’unnerstand?”
His late client nodded comprehendingly.
“That’ll be all right, Mr. Cohen,” he pro-
mised. “They won’t get nothin’ outta me.
“Don’t forget,” warned the ornament of
the law. “You’re as safe as houses. Soon’s
ever they can, they’ll get the commutation
fixed up to about fifteen years, an’ you can
do that on yer head. Per’aps less. You
never know. Well, so long, Smithy, an’ it
there’s anythin’ I can do outside let me
know, will you?” They shook hands, Mr.
McSmith grinning again in the way of one
who shares a secret.
Outside the main gates of the prison Mr.
Cohen jumped lightly into the waiting taxi
and gave an address in a not-far-distant
suburb. His mien was that of one who has
just had a great weight lifted from his
mind, and who observes the clouds of trouble
to be slowly but surely dissipating before
the golden sunshine of good fortune. He
took out a cigar, lit it and sat back to enjoy
the flavor. He had that general air of con-
tentment which comes to one who surveys
the brilliant results of his own clever handi-
work.
The taxi stopped before the door of a five-
storey block of flats. Mr. Cohen ran nimbly
in through the entrance and made his way
to the third floor, where he knocked on a
door and then went in without waiting for
an invitation.
There were three men in an inner room,
seated around a table. At the lawyer’s
entry they all looked up and, seeing who it
was, expressions of mingled interest and
anxiety appeared upon their features. One
of them spoke, a large, heavily-built man of
florid countenance, dressed in the flash garb
of the racecourse, with a galaxy of diamonds
sparkling upon his pudgy fingers. His voice
was thick and hoarse.
“Well?” he demanded.
“Fine,” replied Mr. Cohen. “Swallowed
it like a fish, hook, line and sinker. He
was a bit doubtful at first, but the letter
did it.”
Automatically the strained expressions
came off the faces of the trio and they col-
lectively relaxed. The one who had spoken
contorted his fat features into a pleased
smile and hung upon the newcomer’s next
words.
“I showed him the letter,” continued Mr.
Cohen, taking from his pocket the paper
which Mr. McSmith had read with such
interest, and throwing it on the table. “An’
I explained to him why it had to be left
right to the last minute. He took it all in
an’ he thinks everythin’s jake now. Don’t
worry any more about Smithy squeaking.”
There was a chorus of chuckles, and one
picked up the letter and opened it. His
merriment increased as he read w r hat was
there; and, observing this, Mr. Cohen ex-
plained further.
“Had some old Public Works Department
notepaper up at the office,” he said casually,
(Continued on next page.)


"His Master’s
Voice
Xmas Releases.
Lovely Christmas Records.
Do not fail to hear them!
Magnificent Recording.
GOTA LJUNGBERG (Soprano).
DB962—Ave Maria (with Violin, Harp and Organ) . .Bach-Gounod
Panis Angelicus ~ ~ . Cesar Franck 10/6
MAARTJE OFFERS (Contralto).
DB9BO Agnus Dei (with Organ, ’Cello and Harp) Bizet
Noel ~ ~ ~ Adam 10/6
YORK MINSTER CHOIR (Conducted by Dr. E. C. Bairstow).
Cl 334 This Day Christ Was Born Byrd
Christe qui lux es et dies Byrd 6/-
Cl337—(A) O Lord, Increase My Faith Gibbons
(B) O Clap Your Hands Gibbons
God Is Gone Up Gibbons 6/-
NEW COLLEGE CHAPEL CHOIR, OXFORD.
82446—L0rd, for Thy Tender Mercy’s Sake Farrant
O Lord, My God (unaccompanied) Wesley 4/-
ST. JOHN’S COLLEGE CHAPEL CHOIR, CAMBRIDGE.
B244B—Have Mercy Upon Me, O God Byrd 4/-
2 Parts (with String Quartet).
REGINALD FOORT (Wurlitzer Organ).
B23Bo—Festive Medley
Savoy Christmas Medley Arr. Somers 4/-
VICTOR SALON ORCHESTRA.
EA2OS Silent Night Adam
Holy Night Gruber 4/-
B2364—The Rainbow Fairy B. Grey
Jack and Molly and the Rainbow Fairy. (Vocalist: Sydney
Clotham.) The Tale of Tippity Witchett ... 4/-
B2366—The Land of Nod (Vocalist: Sydney Coltham)
The Pirates’ Island 4/-
B2367—The Laughing Jazz Band B. Grey
Popular, Jocular Dr. Brown B. Grey 4/-
SAVOY ORPHKANS (at Savoy Hotel, London).
Bsls7—Christmas Day with the Savoy Orpheans. Parts 1 and 2 .. 4/”
“HIS MASTER’S VOICE”
December Records.
A MARVELLOUS ALBUM SET OF
Grieg’s Lovely Piano Concerto
in A Minor Op. 16.
Played by Arthur de Greet with the Royal
Albert Hall Orchestra, conducted by
Sir Landon Ronald (D 1237 —40), in __
handsome album u 4/«
STIRRING ! SUPERB !
Philadelphia Symphony Orchestra
in a Magnificent Interpretation.
Wagner’s “Rienzi” Overture.
Conducted by Leopold Stokowski (ED3—
ED4) in 3 parts. Last side contains the
wonderful concluding’ scene
from the “Twilight of the 0 . ,
Gods” ©/- each
//1/ *>
m -
l*' //
v :
EDVARD GRIEG and
ARTHUR DE GItEEF.
MARCEL JOURNET
The Great French Basso, in two fine songs: “Be Rameaux” (The Palms) ■% f\ /r»
(Faure) —-“0 Salutaris Hostia” (Luce) (D 8923) IU/O
Write for full December list.
Obtainable at all up-to-date dealers. If any difficulty
arises, full catalogues and name of your dealer will
gladly be sent on request.
“THE MIKADO”
COMIC OPERA IN TWO ACTS.
Libretto by W. S. Gilbert. Music by Sir Arthur Sullivan.
Recorded under the direction of Rupert D’Oyley Carte with
Orchestral Accompaniment. With an almost complete cast of
favorite artists from the D’Oyley Carte Opera Company:
DARRELL FANCOURT
DEREK OLDHAM
HENRY A. LYTTON
LEO SHEFFIELD
GEORGE BAKER
ELSIE GRIFFIN
BERTHA LEWIS
On eleven 12-inch Double-sided Black Label Records.
Complete Opera in Artistic Album, £4/8/-
The Special arrangements made in connection with the produc
tion of these records are exclusive to “His Master’s Voice.
THE GRAMOPHONE CO. LTD.
163 Pitt Street :: :: :: :: Sydney
in the way of one who makes light of his
own cleverness. “An’ I typed it on a bit
o’ that. The big print at the top was enough
for Smithy. ’E ain’t a quick reader, havin’
learned in gaol.” This was followed by
more merriment, and then somebody asked,
“Well, what’s next?”
“So far’s I can see,” Cohen informed
them, “there ain’t anything to be scared
about now, but all the same, Dan and the
others had better lie low for a bit. Tim
police’ll never guess they had anything to do
with the job unless Smithy gives them a
lead, an’ he certainly won’t do that now. An’
when he tumbles it’ll be too late. Perhaps
they could duck off somewheres until
Smithy’s tucked away.”
“That’s the best thing,” said the big man
in the racecourse garments, taking the cigar
out of his mouth. “You ’ear that, Danny?”
he asked. “You an’ tli’ others kin go into
smoke fer a bit, Mr. Cohen says.”
“Aw right,” said the one called Danny.
“Whatever ’e says, I’m willin’.” He turned
to the lawyer. “Yer sure it’s all right with
Smithy ?”
“Oh, Smithy!” said all the others in
chorus; and together they fell to laughing at
the thought of that luckless subject of their
practical joke.
# * * *
It still wanted some minutes to the hour,
and the eyes of everybody in the little group
• assembled in the governor’s office kept turn-
ing to the clock which relentlessly and inex-
orably ticked off the time with a harsh
sound. At intervals the heavy breathing
of somebody amongst the officials, reporters
and morbid sensation-seekers who had con-
trived to gain admission could be heard
even above the ticking of the clock. On the
faces of all there was a strain, and here and
there the complexion of one stood out with
the hue of old parchment. There was one
who at regular spaces of twenty seconds
looked at his watch and snapped it shut
again.
It was in no equable frame of mind that
Mr. Cohen was escorted across the large
yard and up a flight of iron steps to the
netted range leading to the place from which
Mr. McSmith was shortly to go out for the
last time. As the heavy iron door swung
back it disclosed him just inside, talking to
a warder in uniform. His skin was of a
deathly pallor, white in contrast to the olive-
grgen tint of his visitor; but otherwise he
seemed strangely at ease for a man in such a
position.
As the new arrival entered, Mr. McSmith
hastened towards him as far as the narrow-
confines of his surroundings would permit.
It was plain that he was laboring under
considerable strain, and when he spoke it
was in a quick, jerky fashion.
“Gorstruth,” he ejaculated, “I bin waitin’
fer yer, Mr. Cohen. Yer sure everythin’s
right, Mr. Cohen?” He appeared literally
to hang upon the other’s answer.
For the moment Mr. Cohen seemed to
have difficulty in replying. He choked, swal-
lowed rapidly, and then succeeded in regain-
ing the self-possession which had been on
the point of departing from him.
“Listen, Smithy,” he said thickly. “Yon
know I told you I had everything fixed,
don’t you, an’ why we couldn’t do it any
other way. Well, it’s all jake. Soon’s ever
you get outside there, you’ll see.” He choked
again slightly on his next words. “The
bloke’s waiting with the papers over in the
office now.”
All his life, Mr. Cohen had been a glib
and fluent liar, and the practised ease with
which he had frequently deceived judges and
others ordinarily not easy to deceive had
often been the object of unstinted admira-
tion ; but never before had he experienced
such difficulty in mendacity as at that
moment. He found it hard to avoid the little
ratlike eyes which seemed to be boring right
through him with an intensity he would
never have believed it possible for them vo
possess.
His assurance, however, had the effect of
satisfying Mr. McSmith, from whose face
the strained look partly vanished. The other
inwardly cursed those who had thrust the
job upon him. As near as he was able, he
felt ashamed.
At that instant footsteps sounded on the
flags of the passage outside, and a second
later the door swung open again, to reveal
three warders and a nondescript-looking
person in shabby civilian garb. One of the
warders nodded, and the shabby little man,
who carried in his hand an assortment of
broad, thick straps, advanced into the cell
with a sidling movement and an ingratiating-
air. There was about him the suggestion of
fawning, with a hint of horrible menace
behind the act.
“ ’Ow is it?” he said familiarly to both
Mr. Cohen and Mr. McSmith.
Mr. McSmith looked curiously at him,
which seemed rather to surprise the little
man.
Mr. Cohen stared at the wall; and when
he brought his gaze back again Mr. Mc-
Smith was standing with his arms fastened
tightly at his sides and a loose strap around
his feet. On his head was a round white
cap, of the sort -which bakers wear, its
rolled-up flap in front.
The shabby man stepped back a pace, as
though to inspect his handiwork with the
critical eye of a craftsman. Then one of
the warders made a slight motion and the
little man, taking Mr. McSmith’s arm,
gently piloted him towards the door.
Outside in the passage Mr. McSmith
twisted his head to look at Mr. Cohen, who
stepped up alongside him.
“Yer sure it’s dinkum?” he asked again
in a low tone.
“Sure, Smithy,” was the quavering reply.
“It won’t be a minute now.”
The warders, hearing only the answer, put
the natural construction on the words, and
gazed commiseratingly at him.
They went out through a little iron door,
so low that they had to stoop, and emerged
on a short, wide verandah, where a small
procession of men, some in uniform and
others in civilian clothes, was just ascending
the steps from the- ground below-. They
walked slowly and solemnly, in the manner
of those who participate in some unpleasant
rite, at their head a tall man of serious and
important aspect.
Mr. McSmith regarded them with pro-
found interest. Cohen’s last assurance that
the whole silly farce would soon be over had
cheered him up immensely, and he even
found himself wondering how long he would
have to do after the commutation. Prob-
ably fifteen years, or ten, allowing for the
usual remissions. That was what Slug
Hayes and Skinny the Rat had got for their
jobs, both in a way considerably worse than
his. After all, it had never been inteuded
to kill that poor fool at the bank, and it
hadn’t been he who had fired the shot, any-
how. His part had been merely to stay out-
side and keep watch while the others wont
in—really the riskiest job of all, because he
couldn’t wear a mask in the street and the
ethers could in the bank. Still, it was funny
how quickly the coppors had known that
he was in it, while, they had never seemed
to dream of Danny and the others.
lie was abruptly brought back to earth
again by a voice which sounded as though
it was saying something according to a for-
mula. The voice stopped, and ha felt the
hand of the shabby little hangman guiding
him to a square in the verandah. Alongside
was a long, slim lever, leaning over at an
angle, and draped across a rail near by lie
could see a horrible, thin black rope which
hung down from somewhere above. Surely it
was time now that the fellow with the paper
came to light. He strained his eyes towards
the opening where the procession had come
in, hoping to see the bearer hastening across
the empty space outside, but not a soul
was in sight. His former fears began to
return as he was suddenly aware that the
shabby man, standing on tip-toe, was fumb-
ling with his neck.
He hoard somebody ask him something,
but did not know what he said in reply.
Perhaps Cohen had lied to him, after all!
A blind, hideous panic seized him in its
clammy grasp, and his knees would have
knocked together had they been able.
Then, suddenly, the tall man. whom he
had already guessed was the Sheriff, pro-
duced from nowhere an important-looking
document and commenced to unfold it.
A great wave of relief began to flood Mc-
Smith’s body from head to foot, enveloping
him like a cloud, and his legs almost stopped
their trembling. Of course the paper had
been there all along. He might have known
that they wouldn’t take any risks in a thing
like that. Probably all do their jobs in if any-
thing went wrong—the Sheriff and the whole
lot. He gave a slight shudder at the thought
of anything having gone wrong in this par-
ticular instance. Anyhow, he ought to have
trusted Mr. Cohen and Danny- and the
others. They’d stick to him all right. A
sudden surge of gratitude ■ towards them all
rose up within him.
He was still experiencing this sensation
when some words amongst those the tall man
was reading out suddenly impinged upon his
ear, causing him to reel where he stood in
spite of the straps. For the instant he could
not believe his dazed senses, scattered as
though by an actual physical blow. Then he
caught the next phrase, clear and distinct.
There was no mistake about it.
“Having, on the tenth day of September,’’
the voice of the Sheriff, intoned, “been duly
convicted of murder, before one of his
Majesty’s Justices of the Supreme Court,
and. having been sentenced to be hanged, now
this shall be your warrant for the execution
of the said sentence upon the date named
herein.”
He read on further, but the appalled mind
of McSmith heard not a word of what was
said. Men, walls and everything else were
all whirling around him in a confused|
stream, and the very boards upon which he
stood rocked slowly up and down, like the
motion of a ship at sea.
Then, suddenly, he stopped, and as he did
so McSmith recovered himself. He wanted
to say something, to shout out that some-
thing had gone wrong somewhere and to
wait a minute, but he was exactly like a per-
son in the grip of a nightmare who tries to
scream but cannot.
While he was still struggling, a white thing
dropped down before his eyes, shutting out
their view, so that his breath, coming in
short, jerky gasps, felt hot against his face.
The next second there reached his ears the
last sound he w-as ever to hear —a sharp,
metallic click, followed by a scraping noise,
as of steel being drawn back against wood.
His mind, working with the speed of light,
as even the dullest of intellects is sometimes
capable of doing, w-as striving to interpret
this when the floor was suddenly wrenched
away from beneath his feet. He felt him-
self falling through infinite space, like one
who has slipped off the earth into nothing-
ness, and his brain, still working in infini-
tesimal fractions of time, was trying to
adjust: itself to this new happening, when
there was a blinding flash of red light before
his eyes and Mr. McSmith ceased to exist.
On the verandah above the darkened pit
where his body swayed gently to and fro
at the end of a rope which looked like a rod
of steel, somebody peered down over the edge
of the trap and then hurriedly turned aw-ay
again with a chalky countenance. The execu-
tioner, still busy with the final details of
his horrible craft, looked round at the warder
nearest to him. The Sheriff and the others
were already on their way out, glad to he off
at the earliest possible moment.
“Took it well, didn’t ’e?” he remarked con-
versationally. “Although ’e seemed ter crack
hup a bit jest afore I sent ’im orf.”
The other stared at the shabby little man
like one who has just noticed some un-
pleasant spectacle. He licked his dry lips
before replying.
“I—l suppose so,” he said.
L. VANSITTART.


kĵk;kj;kl'l
WESTING HOUSE
Morse Silent Rocker-Joint
CHAIN DRIVES
Ensure minimum wear—
Maximum life and highest
efficiency.
Chains in stock—wheels manu-
factured to suit requirements.
Write for particulars
and Booklet BM 414.
THE WESTINGHOUSE BRAKE CO.
OF AUSTRALASIA LTD.,
Queensland Agents—HOEMES & CHOItCH, Brisbane.
N.Z. Offlcc—93-107 Featherston Street, Wellington.
CONCORD WEST, N. S. WALES
Victorian Office-—“ Chancery House/’ 485 Bourke Street, Melbourne.
South Australian Agents: Messrs. ELDER, SMITH & CO., LTD.,
Adelaide, S.A.
w.
was
TTfl
•SVer
a
Seven million...
Seven million tiny machines are
ticking away and giving inva-
luable service wherever accuracy
and punctuality are indispen-
sable
Seven million little machines
running on and on, with unfailing
exactness, through the lives of
their contented owners on Rail-
ways, in mines, in factories.....
Have you yours ?
If not ask your jeweller about it
kĵk;kj;kl'l
a 3
O
Paint’s all very well
on a petrol tin but you
don’t want it in your
petrol!
Look after your engine and your
engine will look after you. Don’t give
it dirt in its food. Dirt robs you of
miles per gallon and miles per hour.
Fit the Zenith Filter. Simple, easily
installed, inexpensive and utterly reliable,
it puts an end to the expense and annoy-
ance of frequent carburetter trouble,
cleansing every drop of petrol while the
engine is running.
kĵk;kj;kl'l
I nformalion costs
nothing. Ask for full
particulars, it’s worth it.
Bennett & Wood, Ltd., Sydney; Alex-
ander Mair & Co. Pty., Ltd., Mel-
bourne; Martin Wilson Bros., Ltd.,
Brisbane; A. G. Healing & Co. Pty.,
Ltd., Adelaide; Harris Scarfe and
~ ' Ltd., Perth.
ZENITH CARBURETTER CO„ LTD., 40, Newman Street, LONDON, W.I.
HARBOR TOURIST TRIPS
Weather and other circumstances permitting.
From Fort Macquarie at 10.15 a.m. and 2.15 p.m.
EVERY TUESDAY AND EVERY THURSDAY.
Fares: All-day, 2/6; Half-day, 1/6, Children, 1/- and 6d.
Xjuncheon by reservation at Clifton Gardens Hotel. Afternoon Tea on Board.
SPECIAL TRIP EVERY SUNDAY No. 6 JETTY, CIRCULAR QUAY
Tels.: 86276 (4 lines).
Adults, 1/6. Children, 6d.
Sydney Ferries, Ltd.
(onstipation
Sick Headache
hlionsness
ndiqestion
Torpid Liver
TAME
Is the curse
Of civilization
Headaches, Dullness
Bad taste, no appetite
Skin blemishes
Have their source
In neglected condition
Of bowels
BEECHAM’S PILLS
Relieve constipation
Remove skin blemishes
Cleanse the blood
#
Worth a
Guinea
a Box.
Sold In
Boxes
1/- & 2/6.
=an
=<sr
(T
t=-
-=(.4
-,. ■■ y:r
5S
m.
£r?
• SSS- 835 * 5
■if» Zf= / 2»»g « xr ,
jgg&f fi..@ag! artSSS;? SS
IMss^g^ssiips
v^cg^Rnnhwtid.rtHwwßffu
«M
“RING LOCK,” THE LOCK THAT WILL NOT SHIFT.
. .^". s ence ,.! s J ll3^6 from the finest open hearth galvanised steel, in our own Factory
by Australian Workmen, and is now available for the first time to i'.e Australian Farmer.
! i-« en f e throughout (both Laterals and Droppers) is heavy 10-gauge, thus producing
a stiff stay fence, requiring less posts than usual.
Made for the present in two styles only.
.. u No ‘r! An ideal sheep fence ’ five ,ines spaced, 51n., Bin., 7in., and Bin, apart, 26in.
nigh. Droppers spaced 12in. apart.
PRICE:—In 5-chain Rolls, 6/9 per Chain, or £23/10/ per mile.
N° A fine sheep or cattle fence, six lines spaced sin., 61n., 7in., Bin., and lOin.
apart, 36in. high. Droppers spaced 12in. apart.
PRICE:—In 5-chain Rolls, 8/3 per chain, or £29/10/ per mile.
SEND FOR FULLY ILLUSTRATED CATALOGUE. POST FREE.
SOLE MANUFACTURERS,
D. & W. CHANDLER LTD.
276 to 294 Brunswick St., FITZROY. ’Phone J 4145.
And at
234 to 236 Flinders Lane, MELBOURNE. ’Phone F 4175.
ESTABLISHED 1876.
..e>»
CO**
, c e 6>*
s e<>,
’’ <S® 6 ..•••'■
tl^V
# .♦•• ..•‘WV v^ e


msmsm
Jake the bottle in one hand.
NO CORKSCREW
REQUIRED!
Our new screw-cap
and tear-off capsule
A White Horse
bottle may now
be opened in an
instant with the
new aluminium
screw cap and
tear-off capsule.
Jear off the capsule by pulling this tape
upwards with the other*
We could not
add to the
perfection of
“White Horse,”
so we improved
the seal.
White)
Scotch
WHITE HORSE DISTILLERS, LTD.,
Glasgow.
See how easily the cap unscrews and
screws on again. Notice the cork lining
to make the cap airtight and the milled
edge to assist unscrewing.
