

r
THE-
jINE
gen
L
men who entertain
and are Entertained
PREFER THEM
i
-1.
n
J .*
-C€X,
4e
P £?
sa
For trey
fIA
AREJQLEY
GOOD FELLOWS
OF uS
AND
SAYALL
SO
df
AUSTRALIAN BEST
The Bulletin
Vol. 48.—N0. 2453,
Thursday, February 17, 1927.
Price 6d.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.


THE New Library Catalogue is now
ready and will be forwarded post free, with full
particulars, on application to
DYMOCK’S BOOK ARCADE, LTD.,
428 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
(LYSAGHT -
a
o
R
AUSTRALIA
Support Australian Industries.
All users of Galvanized Iron should specify
Lysaght’s Australian-made
Galvanized Corrugated Iron.
Manufactured wholly from Australian Raw
Materials, and equal to the best imported.
J
Late to bed and early to rise
AND so the good proverb is remembered — by
it. Some girls have to be at dances
late at night. Some have to be at offices early in
the morning. Others have to be at both. No
wonder powder puffs wear out.
ENO’s “Fruit Salt” is for inner health. Being
an aid to Health, it is also among the best aids to
Beauty. ENO begins at the beginning mildly,
gently and naturally, keeping the vital organs in tone
and tune, and the reward comes in good time —in
the form of freshness, colour, complexion and bloom.
Prepared only.br
J. C. ENO, Limited,
London, England.
Sales Agents: The Britiih
Harold F. Ritchie Si Co.,
Ltd.. Sydney, N.S.W.
#
SAV
TWO SIZES
AT CHEMISTS
AND STORES.
THE WORDS “FRUIT SALT” AND ENO
&
/S
■ :
Si
s
UCE J
Ifost BolArooA Says ~ v
“I blend. 1 stir and 1 brew*
the Sauce of the House of
Holbrook. Aye, and then
I mature it in vats of
English oak." s
If any illustration in “THE BULLETIN” takes your fancy, write
to the MANAGER, who will quote you price for the original.
dfd
KILL THAT FLY.
MUSTDIE
HOUSE
ARE POTENT
CARRIERS OF
DISEASE AND
FILTH.
IS NOT A GERMAN
POWDER.
.Sold Everywhere.
, ' PRICE 1/-
The Red Page
Joseph Conrad and the Sea
“Try as he will, no man breaks wholly loose
From his first love; no matter who she be.
Oh, was there ever sailor free to choose
That didn’t settle somewhere near the sea?”
Mrs. Conrad, in Joseph Conrad as I Knew
Zfiwt(Heinemann), refers to Conrad’s several
attempts “to escape from the world of letters
and return once again to his old mistress, the
sea.” When his son Borys was only two
weeks old the father went off to. look at
a small vessel with a view to purchase. He
w T as going to take his wife and child and
live on the ship. “He had golden visions,
Mrs. Conrad writes, “of trading with her m
the East after the manner, I believe, of his
beloved character, Tom Lingard.” W hen
the war was on he went out for a time on a
mine-sweeper, and did' at least one voyage
on a-“mystery-ship.”On..his -honeymoon he
hired a four-ton cutter, and on - the rocky
coast of Brittany saw to it that his 22-year-
old bride graduated “as a fore-and-aft helms-
man (good) and a look-out
Of all his novels only “The Secret Agent’
and “Under Western Eyes” are staged
beyond the sound of waves and deal wholly
with other than seafaring people. Yet “it
lias actually been asserted,” Mrs. Conrad
writes, that her husband hated the .sea ; one
reviewer even found "that fact plainly
revealed in ‘Typhoon’!” “But who,” she
asks, “could have proved his .love of the
sea more completely?”
No man ever, escapes from his youth. It
does not matter how long lie lives or how
he lives, his life-outlook will be shadowed
and colored by the environment and circum-
stances of his younger days. Conrad was 19
when he set off on his first voyage on a
deep-water vessel. After that he served at
sea for a number oi years. All his books are
colored by the experience he then gained : the
shadow and grandeur of sea-mystery is over
them all. Silent and reserved and thought-
ful, to such a one Nature speaks. -Let
such a man on a lonely night-watch, for
instanee, realise that all these waters, rolling
and whispering or roaring about him, have
never been for a single instant utterly still
-in uncountable ages, and all the vast-mean-
ing words he can think of will come to him.
Then there are the stars and the sunsets
and the calms and storms. All infinitely
majestic, infinitely mysterious. And the
sea’s vast disinterestedness. The map who
knows it feels he is as nothing to it. He
becomes aware of its great, predestined pur-
pose far away beyond anything he knows.
But this feeling, whilst it awes, does not
necessarily depress. The greater the vast-
ness Nature suggests to a man the smaller
he will feel and the more heroic. Realisa-
tion of the sublime might move a man to
tears, but it is not depressing. The awfully
grand has a certain suggestion of kindli-
ness about it. One becomes aware of the
littleness of the individual man and of the
vast purpose for which he and all things of
Nature are. Nature in her finer moods turns
one to a sort of trusting fatalism. There is
a strain of such fatalism running through
all Conrad’s works. Through all those
works, too, run vastness-suggesting words.
One comes on them over and over again.
In “The Rover,” Conrad writes: “The
lieutenant, too, had a moment of anger that
went out at onee in the deadly cold philoso-
phical reflection, ‘We are victims of the
destiny which has brought us together.’ ” The
sentence might serve as a key to all his
works. All/ his primary characters are
obsessed with a sense of something beyond,
something ifievitable, something unescapable.
All sorts of things become to them symbols
of this something beyond. In “The Rover,”
for instance, there is the. mongrel dog of the
lonely boatman of the lagoon. There is that
inclined pine “peering over the cliff as if an
insatiable curiosity was holding it in that
position.” There is the English corvette
Amelia, always alert, and always so mysteri-
ous in her movements in the Hyeres Road-
stead. All these things seem to have some
distinct bearing on the lives of the characters
in the book. With all his novels it is the same.
And where did he derive this gift of sym-
bolism if not from that great suggester, the
sea? The sea is all symbolic. Its silent,
floating, mysterious birds, its shadow-like
fish, its purposeful movements and sureness
in its unseen task —all symbolise to the sensi-
tively imaginative man that something beyond
for which he and all things of nature in the
depths of them instinctively strive.
Conrad writes of the “faithful austerity”
of the sea. A feature common to all his
books is his one supreme type of man.
And “faithful austerity” is just the phrase
that applies aptly to this character. It is
Almayer in Conrad’s first book, it is Jean
Peyrol in his last. It is also Lingard, Nos-
tromo, Lord Jim, George. All have a cer-
tain splendid picturesqueness about them.
They are all romantic, all big-motived. They
are all solitary; all, as it were, held apart
from their fellow-men by some living pre-
sence pervading their pasts, all more or less
austere; and all have about them a great,
firm cleanness, almost a fastidiousness, that
all they have lived through in the past
has never been able to wash away. There
is strength and freshness and salt in them,
and their past and future are suggested
always as the sea suggests, and hidden as
the sea hides. Then each one is dramati-
cally revealed in his separate story by “a
touch of sentiment unexpected like an
intruder and cruel like an enemy” that
comes to what each man is.
In melodrama the hero fights against the
villain and the villain’s puppets and machi-
nations, and always wins. In real drama,
the hero fights directly against Fate and her
puppets and machinations, and always loses.
Lut a mood of exaltation comes to us from
watching this hero fighting his losing fight.
That exaltation seems to suggest an instinct-
ive awareness deep down in all of us that
some day man will win his fight even against
h ate. Conrad s heroes never win their fight
But the littlenesses of life, if they deprive
these heroes of their physical beings, can
never touch that unconquerable, nnsubdu-
able something that is the very essence of
them. That is their victory. Conrad has,
in common with Shakspeare, and possibly
Thomas Hardy, wliat men like Wells and
Bernard Shaw utterly lack, a true dramatic
sense. His stories are complete poetic con-
ceptions, pure and clean and fresh and
beautiful like that sea his young impres-
sionable’self was set by circumstance against.
That sea impressed him greatly; he has
greatly expressed it: —
Parsons in pulpits, taxpayers in pews,
Kings on your thrones, you know as well as me,
We’ve only one virginity to lose,
And where we lost it there our hearts will be!
If Joseph Conrad’s books reveal one thing
more than anything else it is the unwavering
affection lie always retained for his first
love.
ALAN D. MICKLE.
An Australian National Theatre
Three years spent in the city of Yeats,
O’Casey and the Abbey Theatre stimulate
comparison between Dublin and my native
city of Sydney. We can teach Dublin many ■
things, but there are a few in which it leads
the way. Contrary to expectations, the sum
total of intellectual activities in Sydney can
be compared favorably with that of Dublin;
but the one consists of spontaneous out-
bursts, while the other flows in a continuous
stream and has direction. What other city
in the world but Dublin has a highly-organ-
ised agricultural society devoting itself by
lectures, musical recitals and a classical
' library to the furtherance of intellectual
activity among its thousands of members?
What a power for good it would be if some
of the languishing agricultural societies in
our country towns would take a leaf from
the book of the Royal Dublin Society and
do likewise for our intellectually backward
farming communities !
Then theye is the Abbey Theatre. When
reading week, by wpek my Bulletin, I am
struck by the extraordinary “will to do”
that manifests itself among the paper’s cul-
tured and artistic contributors, side by side
with the cries almost of despair ringing out
so often because so little can be done.
“Poverty Point,” “Sundry Shows" and “The
Inky Way,”, not to mention the Red Page
itself, reiterate that actors are imported,
plays are imported, intellectual magazines
are imported, even scenery and costumes are
imported; the one thing not imported is the
long-suffering public. Criticism, judged by
Irish standards, is a thing not yet born
with us. Indeed, instead of. being encour-
aged, criticism seems to be hotly resented,
and by nobody so much as by some of the
leaders of Repertory.
Can nothing be done' to storm these ram-
parts of Australian apathy and ignorance?
A few scattered Units cannot do it on their
own. Why cannot we set the Abbey Theatre
before our eyes and see what organised intel-
lectual activity can do? The imitation need
not be exact—perhaps we could have some-
thing in the nature of, a Theatre Guild.
Scenic artists, producers, writers, actors,
electricians-—all are needed in the modern
theatre, however simple their effects, and
it is only by uniting a few enthusiasts from
all these ranks that the nucleus of an Aus-
tralian National Theatre can be formed.
The Abbey Theatre has taken more than
twenty years to reach its present position,
but there were found enough unselfish men
and women to tend it through all its poverty
and distress, and I cannot think that Sydney,
with its three times greater population and
its far greater wealth, co.uld not find the
energy to do likewise. Once established in
one city, on some kind of organised plan,
the same could be reproduced elsewhere—
in Melbourne, Brisbane, Adelaide—-and, as
suggested by St. John Ervine in “The Organ-
ised Theatre” when referring to the English
repertory movement, the cities could
exchange their companies, thus arousing
interest, enlivening criticism and giv-
ing variety. It would not be necessary
to keep to Australian plays—at present,
unfortunately, they are negligible, and we
cannot hope to produce our Shaw or Barry
at the instant on the spot. But stimulation
and example, although they may not be able
to provide the spark of genius, can encourage
latent' talent.
Dramatic material is not lacking, in spite
of what pessimists say. In the “Aboriginali-
ties” and “Society” columns of The Bulletin
alone there are instances weeklv of tragedy
and comedy to whet the appetite of any
dramatist. Our dramatists cannot expect
help from purely commercial theatres, such
as ours of Australia. Companies out to pay
dividends to uncultured shareholders will hot
bother about our writers —their own pockets
and the sure monetary successes are all that
they desire.
It will probably be said that this is all
idealism. My answer is that the Australian
public, once roused, is most responsive, and
if cultured plays were produced hand in glove
with art and fine acting the public
would go to see them. At present amateur
societies are producing plays requiring more
technique and stage-craft than the performers
have to give; their efforts are spasmodic;
they have neither dramatic academy nor
changing weekly repertory in which to train.
Without these we can hardly expect, except
in a few instances, first-rate performances,
if we have not our dramatic academy to
correspond to our art galleries and musical
conservatoriums, surely we may hope to have
our own truly Australian theatre in which
our budding Irvings and Bernhardts may
gain experience. The Abbey Players them-
selves are not chosen from any dramatic acad-
emy—the players by night are nearly all
civil servants by day—but the splendid school
m which they learn is the weekly change of
repertory and the severe test which that
requires. Art in Australia—by which I mean
literature, painting, music and their allied
(Continued on page 3.)


ik
A
a
XT2OI.
SHANKS’ LAWN MOWERS.
XT2O1 —High-wheel “T alis-
man,” specially made for Golf
Courses (as illustrated).
loin. cut. 17in. cut.
Prices £ll/15/- £l3/12/0
XT2o2 — “The Britisher,” with
grass-box. It is light, durable,
and easily regulated. No other
cheap side-wheel Mower possesses
its qualifications. The ideal
machine for small lawns.
lOin. 12in.
Prices ....... SO/- 90/-
Shanks’ Motor
LAWN MOWERS.
XT393 —S hanks’ ‘ ‘Wizard’ ’
Motor Lawn Monger. A small
but extremely efficient Mower,
embodying all latest ideas.
Splendid for Lawns, Golf and
Bowling Greens, Tennis Courts,
Putting Greens. Special cut for
Golf or Bowling Clubs, 16in. cut.
lj-h.p petrol engine, two stroke,
air cooled.
Price ....
£7310/-
XT3B3—Shanks’ “Jehu” Motor
Lawn Mower, cuts 20in. wide.
The 2i-h.p. engine is of the two-
stroke type, air cooled, working
on the petrol system. Embodies
all the latest ideas. Similar to
the “Wizard.” c* -j
Price ~
Durable Lawn Mowers
at exceptionally low prices
Do not envy others: let yours be a carpet of green, too.
Anthony Horderns’ Lawn Mowers are adaptable for
cutting all classes and kinds of grasses. They are used
on all the leading Golf and Bowling Greens, and Tennis
Courts. The superior workmanship embodied in these
Lawn Mowers creates values of outstanding excellence.
Have your Lawn Mower overhauled and put
into good running order by Anthony Horderns’.
Their Lawn Mower Experts will give it a new
lease of life—at very low cost.
1=
VI
48
/I
S,
£
a
v
i>
M
l
a)
Ma#£
6#jv
'ZZI' *l*?
O
SHANKS’ LAWN MOWERS.
XT2O0 —S hank s’ “Triumph”
Horse Mowers, side wheel type,
3Gin. (as illustrated).
Price £96
XT2o6—Shanks' Light tony
or Donkey Lawn Mowers, a
very serviceable machine.
24in. 30in.
Prices £4O, £6O
XT2O3—S hanks’ Standard!
Chain Lawn Mowers, including
grass box.
lOin. 12in. 14in. 16in.
£l2 £l4 £l5/15/- £l7
XT2os—Shanks’ “Caledonia”
Lawn Mower.
lOin. 12in. 14in. 16in.
£B/5/- £9/12/6 £l3 £l6/10/-
DUNLOP GARDEN HOSE.
Special —iin., 1/1 ft.; 12/- doz.
fin., 1/4 ft.; 15/- doz.
Dunlop No. 1—
|in., 10 ft; 10/- doz.
fin., 1/2 ft.; 13/6 doz.
Oceanic —Jin., 9 d. ft.; 9/- doz.
fin., llj&d. ft.; 11/- doz.
Federal —fin., lOd. ft.; 9/6 doz.
Iron Hose Reels, to hold 60ft.
hose. Price 23/6
Special Hose Reel, 60/-
SPRINKLERS.
8-arm Sprinkler, 4ft. high, nickel- plated Price 53/0
“Fairy” 2-arm Sprinkler ... Price
Three-arm Sprinkler Psices 6/9,
“Evanston” Sprinkler • . . . Price
wac-i
XT2IS.
THE GENUINE “PHILADEL-
PHIA” LAWN MOWERS.
XT2ls — Style “K.” Cylinder
with five blades; lOin. Driving-
Wheel ; diameter of Cylinder
tigin.; Single Pinion; Gleaned
both sides (as illustrated).
14in. lGin.
Prices £5/15/- £6/5/-
Roller Bearing, 14in., Price, £7
XT35 —Style “M.” Plain Bear-
ings ; Cylinder solid, blades bolted
on; Single Pinion; Geared on
both sides.
Diameter of Cylinder, SJin.,
three blades; 10 and 12 in. have
6Jin. Driving Wheels ; 14 and 16
in., 7in. Driving Wheels.
10 12 14 16 hi.
80/- 92/6 £5 £6
GARDEN ROLLERS
Concrete Garden
Rollers, weight
4ewt.
Price .... £3/7/6
Concrete Garden
Rollers, Steel-faced,
weight 4cwt.
Price £5/7/6
Cast-iron Garden
Rollers, double
cylinder.
22 x 20in. 24 x 24in.
Weight 3cwt. 2qr.
Prices .... £7 £8
26in. x 20in. 3cwt. 3qr.
£B/10/-
A Large Variety ot
Pollers suitable for all
purposes in stock.
H
I
H
ANTHONY HORDERN & Sons Limited,
G.P.O. Box 2712 C.
BRICKFIELD HILL. SYDNEY.
Telephone: City 9440,


70
Australian
Built
HUDSON-ESSEX
Give Greatest Quality and
Trice Advantage in Histoiy
Through this new and epoch-making programme,
collaborating Australian and American production
resources, Hudson and Essex to-day offer the great-
est value achievement ever placed before Australian
buyers.
By years of development, Australian material
wealth and technical skill have been consolidated
under modern production methods to build 7 0° /o of
Hudson and Essex cars. This not only contributes
to the advancement of Australian industry and
prosperity, but it gives to car buyers the advantage
of unrivalled manufacturing economies that no
other make of car shares.
Think of the Essex Touring at £239, the Essex
Coach at £299 and Hudson Touring at £399 —prices
that wer6 wholly impossible under the old system
of the All-American built car. Yet, at the new, low
prices, these are even finer cars., With new lines,
color and beauty, each is more striking and distinc-
tive in appearance. Each is mechanically at the
height of its value with chassis betterments, sub-
stantially increasing gasoline mileage and giving
even greater performance and reliability. Years of
concentration on these chassis in the great Detroit
plants of the Hudson Motor Car Company and the
building of more than 900,000 cars on the famous
Super-Six principle have produced not only a finer
car, but have resulted in economies of manufacture
and distribution that give amazing price and value.
Priced the
Lowest in History
New Lines, New Colors, Richer
Upholstery and Appointment.
Essex Touring - £239
Essex Coach- - - £299
Hudson Touring £399
Any comparison will satisfy you
that such automobile values were
never before offered.
Also on Display—
Hudson Coach, £465.
Hudson Brougham, £525.
Hudson 7-Pass. Sedan, £560.
Prices some points slightly higher.
THE HUDSON MOTOR CAR COMPANY, Detroit, Michigan, U.S.A.
AUTOS, LTD.,
Hay Street. Perth.
LEADER MOTORS, LTD.,
415 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
H. C. HEATHORN & CO.. LTD.,
Hobart and Launceston.
DALGETY & CO., LTD.,
Phillip Street. Sydney.
MOTORS, LIMITED,
Flinders Street, Adelaide.
NEAL’S MOTORS PTY., LTD.,
Exhibition Street, Melbourne.
1164-lW


THIRD CLASS
BY
ORIENT LINE
Attention is drawn to the excellent and well-
ventilated cabin accommodation, the large and
comfortably furnished public rooms and the
spacious decks in the new 20,000-ton steamers.
Through the Line no longer carrying second-
class passengers similar improvements have
been made in the third class of the other
steamers of the fleet.
A further attraction to the route is the CAIRO
EXCURSION, which at a moderate fare
enables third-class passengers to visit the
Pyramids and Cairo, leaving the ship by
special train at Suez and rejoining at Port Said.
2,4, 6 SPRING STREET, SYDNEY.
Branches and Agencies throughout Australia and New Zealand.
subjects—is still too much chained to this-
side-of-the-world ideas. Not until we break
away and learn to spread our wings in the
own original way will our artistic mind b
free to rise to its full height.
DUBLIN.
K. McE. R.
A Jesuit Priest and His Map
In a translation made from “tlie Chinese
World Map” of Father Ricci by British
Museum associates some little time back,
there are curious and interesting references
to this part of the globe. The quaint old
cartographical document, according to Dr.
Lionel Giles, who lias published informative
papers dealing with the subject, dates from
about the sixteenth century, and seems to
have been a composite sort of production
drawn from various sources and arranged
in the form of a six-leaved screen. Father
Ricci himself does not appear to have been
very well acquainted with the Chinese lan-
guage when he set to work, and had to
trust to interpreters; but later on lie seems
to have put more of his own into it. In a
kind of preface he says
Filled with admiration for the great Chinese
Empire, whose fame extended for over ten thousand
li, I came from the West on a floating raft, m the
year 1582. Certain scholars requested me to
make a map of the various countries I had passed
through.... I made a series of selections from the
maps and books which I had brought with me, as
well as from the notes and diaries of several years,
and had them engraved on blocks.
In a newer edition Ricci corrected errors
in the old translation, and made a number
of additions. Commenting upon the later
work, he says :
Now, the real shape of the earth is spherical,
whereas in the present map it is a flat surface. .. .
therefore I drew two hemispheres.... so as to give
an idea of the real shape of the earth.
In another note he proves the fact of the
earth’s sphericity by referring to a per-
sonal experience at the Cape of Good Hope:
“I still had the heavens above my head and
not beneath my feet.” He enumerates the
five zones and the five continents, terming
the fifth Magellanica, of which, however,
he says: “Its boundaries cannot yet be
exactly determined, but its northern side
extends up to Greater and Desser Java and
the Straits of Magellan.”
Some of the inscriptions are very difficult
to decipher, and Dr. Giles is not quite sure
that he has the true reading in every case.
In his note dealing with the west -coast of
the Malay Peninsula, Ricci speaks of Chiu-
Chiang (Old Harbor), which was seemingly
a great emporium for the inhabitants of the
South Seas; along the sea-coast, he states,
“the people build rafts and make dwelling-
houses, covering them in with cocoanut
leaves. When they move they simply pull
up the poles and carry their houses with
them. They have a wine made from the
nipo-tree, which is nicer than cocoanut
wine.” The wine is, of course, nipa arrack.
On the eastern seaboard of the peninsula is
P’eng-heng, identified as Pahang; and just
below is Tani, a country concerning which
there is this note: “In Tani there occurs an
extremely large bird called Oma. It has
wings but cannot fly ; its feet are like those
of a horse, and it runs very fast, so that
a horse cannot overtake it. Its feathers
can be made into helmets.” O-ma has been
identified with the Portuguese word for
ostrich, “Ema,” and Mr. Heawood, who
collaborated with Dr. Giles, tells us that
this term was applied by early navigators
to the ostrich-like birds of both East and
West —for instance, the cassowary of Ceram,
in the Malay Archipelago, of which a speci-
men was brought home by the Houtmans
during the first Dutch voyage to the East
Indies. Ricci seems to have come across
some of the native dances, judging by his
reference to the use of the cassowary
feathers as helmets or head-dresses. He
also got in a few years before Alan Cobham
in his description of winged reptiles:
“Malacca abounds in flying dragons which
coil round trees. They are not more than
four or five feet long, and men often shoot
them.” They might, of course, have been
our old friend the goanna.
Coming down past Sumatra, “which has
seven kings ruling over it,” and Borneo,
where “the towns are built of wood,” we
find the island Pa-pu-ya-ssu. This cannot
be other than Papua, though it is shown
as separated by a fairly wide channel from
the great Southland, which represents New
Guinea. Here there seems to be confusion
with Australia. On New Guinea (so called
“because it is similar in shape and appear-
ance to Guinea in Africa”) he has a note:
“Europeans have only recently arrived in
the country, hence it is not known for cer-
tain whether it is a piece of the continent
or an island.”
Another place of importance is Great
Java, or Ho-ling, from which, accord-
ing to Ricci, soldiers of the Mongol Empire
came and carried off the king. Trading and
commerce are noted, with especial reference
to the export of pearls and precious stones.
Between Java and Timor (Ti-mu) are
numerous islands, which render “navigation
very difficult,” and from which sandalwood,
cloves and other commodities are produced.
Marco Polo calls Sumatra “Java the Dess,”
but Ricci places it in the centre of a great
bay in the southern continent; and on the
west coast of this bay is Maletur, “which
aboundeth in all manner of spices.” The
location is given as s. lat. 20deg. 30min.,
E. long. 148 deg. 3min. Follows a very in-
teresting and important note, especially in
view of the disputed question of just when
Australia was first discovered: “In recent
years a Castilian (Ka-lisi-lang) ship was
driven by stress of weather to this coast;
but we are only told the breadth and extent
of the country, and none of its prodiicts.”
Ricci marks Ka-hsi-lang as a province in
the south of Spain, but Dr. Giles considers
that Castile is meant. The remains of a
mysterious wrecked ship lying off the coast
of Cape York Peninsula have been suggested
to be the bones of this ship of Castile, but
it is only surmise, of course. Further south
Ricci’s screen-map shows Po-ya-chi, and a
note to the effect that few have reached
these southern regions, and consequently
there is no information about the people and
things here. Out in the Pacific there are
the Coral Islands, where “the coral-tree
grows at the bottom of the sea; its color is
green and its substance soft. It bears white
seeds, which are caught in a fine-meshed
net,” though he doesn’t tell us what tor.
There is a great deal still to be elucidated
in this and other old maps which will have
important bearing upon the earlier history
of our continent. Incidentally, in the Ricci
World Map, some of the inscriptions show
considerable scientific knowledge, especially
when it is remembered that sources from
which he quotes belong to the fourteenth
century.
W. H. M.
Why Write?
Why do people write books? They needn’t.
What is the urge that makes a novelist tap
his life out on his typewriter instead of going
in for the real-estate business? To make
money? Perhaps. To attain fame or become
a “best-seller”? Partly. To do what he
most wants to do, to express himself in
print? Yes, with qualifications. James
Branch Cabell, the author of that famous -
or infamous —volume “Jurgen” and all the
variants of the one story he has been telling
for a decade, now concluded in Straws and
Prayer-Books (John Lane; Dymock’s), de-
votes an intimate book to explain why lie has
written such a lot, and why he has written
at all. He concludes with the apophthegm
that “the literary artist plays: and the sole
endeavor is to divert himself.” We are, lie
tells us, merely unwritten novels bound in
cloth and haberdashery. An artist's primary
endeavor must be to divert, not any possible
reader, but himself. Purely selfishness. The
literary artist temporarily endows his fol-
lowers with the illusion of possessing what
all alchemists have sought—unfading youth,
wealth and eternal life. “The creative
romanticist alone can engineer a satisfying
evasion of that daily work-a-day life which is
to every man abhorrent.”
It is this inherent distaste for the respect-
able lives that we are compelled to live that
made the English novel begin with rogues—
Tom Jones, Jack Sheppard, Robin Hood and
the gallery of highwaymen and pirates. “Art
is an evasion of the distasteful.” So the
literary artist diverts himself by construct-
ing other and better worlds. It is not only
H. G. Wells who tinkers with Utopias: every
literary artist builds these castles in the air.
These diversions are necessary in a world of
fact. No matter how cleverly we dodge the
unpleasant things, we cannot dodge Death.
So the literary artist is led to play with
death. “There is upon me a resistless hunger
to escape from use and wont: I seem more
utterly resolved than are my fellows not to
be bored; and it is my endeavor to evade the
tediousness of familiar things.” But the
artist docs more: he plays at the game of
perpetuating not merely his personal notions,
but also his own personality. “He ardently
desires his work to survive, and looks child-
ishly forward to posterity to right his
wrongs.” But there the odds are tremen-
dously against him. “There is no vaguest
reason to suppose,” says Cabell, “that of
the Greek and Roman writers we have pre-
served what was best worth keeping. The
point is that these works might quite as
easily have been something else. The point
is that they have not earned their present
and probably perpetual rank by their pre-
eminence in special qualities, nor by any
aesthetic principle whatever.” It was a mere
fluke which of the Greek plays survived, or
were lost, or what has come to the surface
of Sappho’s verse. No: we cannot look to
posterity to make the amende honorable. So
even that hope is gone. Still, books will be
written and men will read them.
A. H. A.
G. B. Stern
We are told that the object of all art
is the concealment of art; and we know that,
technically, this concealment, when it is com-
plete, is the high-water mark of expression
in letters. The common achievement is by
personality, or the antithesis of conceal-
ment. No one quarrels with that, of course,
when its corollary is the freedom of the
rich minds of Dickens or Conrad, Her-
gesheimer or Fanny Hurst. Really, I sup-
pose this expressed personality is all that
we have any right to hope; lots of good
critics, despairing of the rare impersonal
achievement, have said that the art is the
full expression of personality. But that
is wrong. The art is the full expression of
vision unobscured by personality—a doubt-
less negligible counsel of perfection, but
nevertheless a true description of the essen-
tial art.
It has been argued that the vision is
the personality. But that doesn’t work out.
Seeing Micawber via Dickens we laugh at
him and love him, but nothing will persuade
us that he is true except as a part of the
incomparable Copperfield picture; and that
is to demand the Dickens frame or to
impugn the clarity of the vision’s expression.
When we say “The first sentence told me
that the book is by John Smith or Mary
Jones,” we do not, as we imagine, praise
the book’s literary quality; as a work of
art we squash it.
No sentence in A Deputy Was King
(Chapman and Hall; Dymock’s) is obviously
by G. B. Stern. There are numbers of
characters here, their thoughts and words,
at times their hearts and souls ; there is a
fine sweeping story full of a large power
and a subtle tender delicacy, too ; there is
an unquestionable picture of London after
the war, and of the Londoners brought into
being by the war; indeed, there seems here
everything that a book should have. But
there is nothing qf G. B. Stern. All that
effulgent magnificent personality has been
drained out of her work of art; with the
conception of the book the personality’s
function ceased.
In “Tents of Israel,” the first of the two
Rakonitz books, this sumptuous, far-seeing
personality was by no means absent. The
canvas was in its lavish crowding
color; Rakonitzes came tearing in, up to
their eyes in picturesqueness and piquancy,
cursed with every ornamental bad habit on
earth, from drink to suicide; one was no
sooner shut of one fascinating group of Jews
than another burst on to the stage from
Budapest or Constantinople, Vienna or
Prague, all steadily fascinating and pictur-
esque. The book was full of a brilliant charm
and distinction; one was grateful for the
chance of reading it; but it was sometimes
quite impossible to see the wood for the trees
of the author’s personality.
Between “Tents of Israel” and this second
Rakonitz book, “Thunderstorm” came last
year. One guesses that Miss Stern was con-
scious of this lack of clarity of vision;
“Thunderstorm,” in its first and important
part, is almost all made up of meticulous
emotional detail in the daily life of two
characters —two “dull” Italian peasants. It
is a beautiful book, throbbing with sensitive
life; any novelist would be justly proud to
point to Vanna and Ettore as a supreme
achievement. But Miss Stern’s quality is not
tender detail; it is a wide all-embracing vision
in which time and daily lives are as unimport-
ant as sin; she sees the Rakonitzes almost as
a race, generation following generation in all
the numberless branches.
Hence Toni Rakonitz is here a true
Rakonitz, but sharp and vivid and alive to
her finger-tips. She marries a Goy, Giles
Goddard; and all the Goys of the proper
background are as real as Toni. She has her
good Gentile time in post-war London, and
gets that out of her system. The old matri-
arch dies aw 1 her mantle falls on Toni’s
shoulders; Toni goes to work again and
quarrels with her Goy husband thereby. He
leaves her for Loraine, one of the very
piquant Rakonitz women ; and there is tur-
moil and shame and sorrow. But in the end
Toni, the young matriarch, and her Goy
husband achieve their “house in peace” and
in wisdom.
The book is truly the high-water mark of
the literary craft. It really does conceal all
evidence of craft —there is nothing here save
Miss Stern’s people who are in being by grace
of her absence. Their laughter and their
voices sound in your ears as you read. She
is a great artist, who has reached the high-
est level of all: that of absolute non-existence
when she is at work.
HILARY LOFTING.
A Satchel of Books
Jesting Pilate, by Aldous Huxley (Chatto and
Windus; Robertson and Mullens). Huxley brings a
humorous and cultivated European mind, aristocratic
traditions and a penetrating logic to the muddled
scene where Orient and Occident are fighting out their
obscure destiny. The result is an interesting book
full of intellectual surprises in which many popular
delusions are turned inside out. Thus Huxley dors
not find the Taj Mahal the greatest architectural
triumph in the world but a poor, arid, pretentious
thing.
Ceylon , the Land of Eternal Charm, by Ali Foad
Toulba (Hutchinson). A million .books have been
written about Ceylon. Here is an Egyptian who has
nothing new to say about the island and says it at
great length.
The Exquisite Perdita, by E. Barrington (Harrup ;
Robertson and Midlens). In the present novel the
authoress has taken as her central figure the talented
and beautiful actress Mary Robinson, of the days of
Garrick and Sheridan, and round her woven a tale
in which fact is deftly intertwined with fiction. It
is quite up to the standard of “The Divine Lady’’
and other works from the same facile pen.
An Asian Arcady, by Reginald le May, M.R.A.S.
(Heffer). The title is a tourist-tickler. The book
itself is a serious attempt to paint a comprehensive
picture of northern Siam, by an English adviser to
the native Government who appears to know his
subject inside out. The turbulent early history of
the region forms a background to the author’s own
fascinating travels and traffickings with the present
Inhabitants.
Whitman: An Interpretation in Narrative, by
Emory Hollo wav (Knopf). Mr. Holloway has devoted
13 years to finding out the facts and determining:
the proper point of view for such a picture of
Whitman as would “remove him from the field of
fruitless controversy, that all that is noble in his
poetry and in his example might begin to function
in a larger realm than academic and artistic circles.”
If a sympathetic and appreciative pen can convert
the Philistine into a lover of the rugged old man’s
rugged output, then this exhaustive work ought to
do it. The book is excellently produced and illus-
trated with portraits and facsimiles of Whitman’s
letters and diaries.
Europe at Love, by Paul Morand (Knopf). The
author is a man of letters in France, and in this
collection of short stories he covers a wide field.
Many of the stories are not much more than expanded
paragraphs. They all, however, exhibit wit, irony
and imagination, and all skate on the surface of
things.
The Actor in Dickens, by J. B. Van Amerongcn
(Cecil Palmer). There is a story that in early life
Dickens was a member of a small dramatic company,
but was summarily dismissed with the words “Young
man, get back to your scribbling.” Whatever his
merits as an actor he was a devout lover of the
stage. His life was full of private theatricals, and
his public readings were imbued with the dramatic
spirit. In this latest addition to Dickens literature
the author claims to fill in one of the few remaining
lacunae. Its interest is added to by the sketched-in
picture of the contemporary stage and the character-
istic traits of the pro. in Dickens’s time.
A History of Russia, by V. O. Kluchevsky (Dent).
This volume is the fourth of the series. Volume 111
appeared in 1913 and carried the history up to the
eve of the birth of Peter the Great. The present
volume carries it on to the revolution which seated
Catherine 11. on the throne. Interesting for British
readers is the description given of Peter’s visit to
England, where the future great ruler of Russia
played the part of a diligent apprentice in the naval
dockyards. After Peter’s departure Bishop Burnet
remarked that, though he had been struck with Peter’s
conversational powers, he had been appalled at his
confession of faults and vices and, above all, at his
boorishness, and remarked that “it was impossible to
estimate the designs of a Providence which could
dower so rude a fellow with a measure of rule so
absolute over a realm so vast.”
It’s Not Done, by William C. Bullitt (Brentano).
“The whole world has passed into the machine
age and we are as alien to it as if we were fifth-
century Athenians,” he cries. How Corser was
caught in the net of the new social, business and
political life and his fight to preserve the old-time
standards is the theme of an interesting though
loosely knit story. .
Osman Digna, by H. C. Jackson (Methuen). The
story of the Soudan recalls a chapter of interest to
Australians —that which contains the account of the
formation and dispatch of its first military contingent
overseas. The best the author can find to say of
the subject of his memoir is that “if Osman Digna
was cruel and relentless it must be remembered that
he had divine sanction in the Koran for all or most
of what he did.”
An Adventure in Moral Philosophy, by Warner
Fite (Methuen). The author is a professor in Prince-
ton University (U.S.A.), and writes his book not
only for the student but for the general reader.
He defines morality as self-conscious living. To be
moral is to be thoughtful ; to be thoughtful, always
to know what you are doing, is to be critical, to
live not by habit and instinct, but by judgment and
choice. This conception, the author admits, is but
an extension of the two sayings of Socrates, “Virtue
is Knowledge” and “Know Thyself.”
The Candy Man, by Ridgwell Cullum (Cecil
Palmer; Robertson and Mullens). Between the fringe
of Canada’s civilisation and the Arctic, “Crazy”
Charlie Burton came upon gold sufficient to lift him
and his motherless boy to affluence. How he was
tortured and afterwards despoiled of his treasure
and how his friend “The Candy Man” ran his
murderer to ground is interwoven with a love interest.
Above the average of melodramatic fiction.


. p-
i. , ; I ’ *■
r
«K>
“C
%\_
V
V
%
❖
/
4'6
per pair.
Ask your Mercer
to show you the
newest in Bond’s
Silken Half Hose.
Two qualities—
many fine designs.
5/6
per pair.
on
ey’rc
remar
kably
GOOD socks - and
♦ ♦
♦ ♦
LOOK, it-
« 4>
♦ ♦ ♦
AA/’HEN socks have the
v y comfortable fitting of
Bond’s Silken Plaids ~ when
they cling as neatly to
the ankle - when they have their
unique colorings and tasteful designs
- when they wear and wear and
wear THEY’RE REMARKABLY
GOOD SOCKS.
And when they are priced as
moderately as Bond's Silken Plaids
- when every pair purchased helps
to increase the natural wealth of
the community and thereby the
welfare of the individual, the most
logical thind to do is to wear them.
fitacfe
(JEoncts
SILKEN PLAID
•HOSE
In Australia by the EMPLOYEES of QEO. A. BOND & CO. LTD. - All States, New Zealand and South Africa
aoufactui ers of Bonds Hosiery, Half-Hose, Underwear, Towels, Sheeting * * Pion eet Australian Cotton Spinous


Intense Cold
I HERE is nothing
1 quite so delicious
and quite so soothing
as a sparkling, lce-
chilled drink. Yet
this is only one of the
innumerable benefits
that come with modem
refrigeration.
i n
p
a
Even if it were impossible for
you to obtain ice, you could still
enjoy the most perfect refrigera-
tion. Kelvinator is an electric
device that removes heat and
dampness from any refrigerator,
leaving it cold and preserving
food.
Kel vina t o r keeps the most
delicate foods fresh and sweet
for days at a time. Moreover,
Kelvinator makes crystal-clear,
solid ice-cubes for table use
and chilling beverages, and
freezes desserts that are unique
and delicious.
Kelvinator relieves you of all
thoughts of refrigeration. It is
installed—then it takes care of
itself.
DANGAR, GEDYE & CO., Ltd.,
Young Street, Sydney.
Kelvinator Showrooms: 75 William Street, Sydney,
’Phone: F 1778.
Kelvinator
Tine Oldest Domestic Electric Refrigeration


The
IMPROVED PACKARD SIX
T*
m
MM
. :
—1
*gmm
i
::V'
SINGLE.SIX FIVE.PASSENGER PHAETON
"Ask the Man Who Owns One”
THOSE who know, say that there is no finer car on
on the road than the Packard. Now, more than ever
is the time to "Ask the Man who Owns one.” Packard
owners, almost without exception, are motorists of long
standing and of discriminating tastes, and the fact that
their ultimate choice is Packard is only a logical conclu-
sion to their search for the best in motoring.
Packard has long excelled in distinction, comfort, dependability and econ-
omy. Greater than ever in all of these attributes the improved Packard
now excels in performance. As a by-product of recent improvements in
engine design and construction the Packard has been given increased
power far in excess of ordinary requirements but giving an added as-
surance of reliability.
For the man who wants a really fine car at a moderate outlay there can be
nothing better than a Packard.
Single-Six Five-Passenger Phaeton s
.£875
'‘‘Ring 8W1517 for demonstration .
IRA L. & A. C. BERK (Packard) LTD.
Distributors: Berk House, 72-76 William Street, Sydney.
Write or call for Catalogue.
Kellow, Falkiner Pty. Ltd., The Universal Motors Ltd., S. A. Motors (Packard) Ltd., H. C. Heathorn & Co. Ltd., Denny Bros. Ltd.,
306 Russell St., Melbourne, Petrie’s Bight, Brisbane. 141 Flinders St., Adelaide, Hobart, Tasmania. 439-44/ Murray St., Perth
PACKARD
THE RESTFUL CAR


=rns
Fop Golfers
these resilient ,
Stin/rNookincj Shoes
Soled with tough crepe rubber, light
in weight but surprisingly strong,
Abbey Golf Shoes are supple and pleas-
antly springy.
Special brown willow calf is used for
the uppers*—smartly finished with
designs punched in the leather. It
would be hard to find better-looking
shoes.
Abbey Golf Shoes are lined from toe
to heei with smooth, soft leather—-no
canvas. The tongues are of double
thickness, to prevent folding.
If you are difficult to fit, try these
shoes. Every half-size is made in three
widths—narrow, medium and wide.
They fit closely at ankle and instep, but
do not cramp the foot anywhere.
Order by Post
Abbey Golf Shoes are made in half-
sizes, price 47/6 per pair. State
width required.
ABBEY
Established over 80 years.
313 George Street, and
224 Pitt Street, Sydney.
L 7.
CASH'S
RIBBONS
WASHABLE V-
RIBBONS^
For the Dainty Finishing
‘Touches to Your Lingerie
jWTADE in Plain or Bro-
A caded Styles in Pretty
Pastel Shades up to 14n.
widths no need to re-
move CASH’S RIBBONS
from garment before
washing as they retain
Colour and Freshness in-
definitely.
oAsk Your Draper
IF UNOBTAINABLE WRITE TO
J. & J. CASH PTY. LTD.
Cubitt St . Richmond
MELBOURNE
“THE WOMAN’S MIRROR.”
PRICE Sil.
Contains everything a woman needs to know.
GLOBE
v-x
TIMBER MILLS C?
1%. FLINDERS ST ADELAIDE .£$
TIMBER. , JOINERY,
GALVANIZED IRON
v'‘V/'". Lowest - Prices.Highesh Quality, Prompf Service
d fox Qyqij
' fcir
/
MO I
J
K i * il«*v
jx&caiv
yi L C«KJ
/
. loutli
mice. . is t ho fir st sign
“o®S '»»? & Sn beneiW
S'!w“« esotm .
’ Oy TUe S'' st i“Jh-—tint dcfj'
sHfo-sff*,
attacked aud 1 Tllis may
every Xutt'but there « •»■
seem difticu remedy-
»« a ”emcJy n VaSit
A& £Ts«ic.»t
!£&-* I-- f
stantly bair to
g a ny required s^a^‘ c iremists
at all m b
and stores at / Agents,
■K^&Sainsbn™^'
and sw “ t he
or direct * r g ins bury,
Duerdm A & ~g to covei
Melbourne j
Jd'Glknb Mexican
WALNUT STAIN
Suitable Gifts for Men
BUY GIFTS FOR MEN where Values are the
Best in Australia —at Stewart Dawson’s; where,
also, Selections are the largest and most compre-
hensive. Our huge Buying Organisation—for
Eleven Branches —enables us to secure the Latest
Goods at Keenest Prices in the World’s Markets.
And our customers reap the full benefit.
df
Inspect the Gift
Displays at both
our City Shops.
82570 —Nickel Smoker’s Set, consisting
of pipe-rack, ash tray and match-box.
Suitable for motor-car or launch. Price,
15/6.
Write for Stewart
Dawson’s Latest Cata-
logue of Jeweller y,
Diamonds, Silverware.
Watches, etc.
d
For Your Motor-car.
Clso4—Best Silver-
plated Flower Vase, for
motor-car. Price,
15/6.
Suitable Gifts for Men
in Cigarette Cases, Tobacco Boxes,
Ash Trays, Match Boxes, Shaving
Sets, Gold Pencils, Gift Knives,
Smokers’ Companions, etc.
a~
Solid Nickel Match-box, to hold safety-
matches. Price, 2/-.
STEWART DAWSON & CO.
54 YEARS* WORLD-WIDE REPUTATION. (N.S.W.), I/TD.
Two Sydney
Establishments
185-187 Pitt Street, near King Street.
412 George Street Strand Corner.
1000 SATISFYING SHAVES
ď
SUY THIS RAZOR and share with thousands of others the
that shave after shave of satin smooth-
AH f im Pa ir i se ntat io n Case
Guaranteed &
in order for two years free
p/-P
ost free
Throughout
Australasia
CRAIG & AITKEH6S4 GEORGE ST,SYDNEY,
VARIOVS VERSE
[FOR THE BULLETIN. ]
Ever Singing.
There’s a valley in the mountains
Floored with green and domed with blue,
And a track runs through that valley
Known to few and trod by few;
And ’tis there in thought I wander
As I wandered long ago
When ’twas spring, glad spring and sunshine,
And the wattles were aglow.
Made by feet that long have plodded
Whither no man stops to think,
Winds that track through oak and wattle
All along a river’s brink,
All along a lovely river
That, unheard or heard by man,
Sings for aye the same song ever
That it sang when time began.
Glides that river, sings that river;
Singing, singing, on it flows,
And its song is not unhappy,
Though it knows not where it goes;
Since it runs through pleasant places,
Golden light and shadow blent
Falling on its rippling surface,
With what is it is content.
Always when the mood is on me
To be somewhere far away,
To that valley in the mountains
On the wings of thought I stray;
There ’tis always wattle-season,
And for aye bright gleams abide
On the ever-singing river
And the track along its side.
N.S.W.
RODERIC QUINN.
The Gladdened Fool.
I had not much
But all I had I gave and freely gave;
And if my touch
Revealed some hope I had not truly
weighed—
Some small weak hope I held in trembling
clutch —-
That you had power to save,
How shall I blame you that your love was
trade?
What is a heart
To you, who called so many to your will?
’Twill play its part,
I doubt not, this small gift of mine, to
swell
The traffic statement of your amorous mart,
When God, the Final Creditor, presents his
bill,
Checks up the balances and approves you
well!
But what of me,
With my one asset gone? I owed no debt,
But paid your fee
As happy gift, not as cold merchandise.
All that was mine foreclosed on, must it be
That nought remains me now but deep
regret
That you so thralled me with your great
brown eyes?
Regret ? Ah, nay!
No fool is he who knows his folly true.
It was your way,
And what my right to blame a way not
mine ?
I take receipt and still again would pay
The debt I never owed you, girl! But
you—
God shield you, child !.... Yes, waiter,
please, more wine!
VICTORIA.
BERNARD INGLEBY.
Red.
I see a lusty reveller —the gay
Adventurer of colors ; in the sky
At dawn and sunset does his banner fly,
His shout of cheer and challenge to the day.
I see him on the battlefield at play,
Revelling in carnage; still and sly
Out of a bowl he winks a ruby eye,
And with his magic steals the world away.
O King of Colors, wild, hot things are thine!
Young lips just kissed, red, newly-opened
flowers,
The leap of flames in some half-darkened
room,
Courage and passion, anger, blood and
wine—
O brave companion, in the dreary hours
Your cry of “Carpe diem!” mocks the
tomb!
N.S.W.
PATRICIA O'RANE.
A Recollection.
It isn’t often that I think of you—
It seems that one forgets as one grows old ;
And other ties, and other duties, too,
Press earth upon a love long, long grown
cold.
But on this night of rain, when water beats
Against th’ illumined darkness of my pane,
Somehow that olden tale itself reneats,
So that you seem both near and dear again.
Same hair.... same smile... .same quaint,
old-fashioned ways.
You never could keep pace with Time or
Fashion.
(I liked that in you most —next to the gaze
That mildly countered mine of fitful
passion!)
Where are you now? Already I have guessed.
Where could you be but in some ordered
nook
Where method runs on well-oiled wheels —a
nest
Where you could muse with slippers, pipe
and book!
All as it should be! Meet that your joys
should lie
In grooves that City Fathers long have
ta’en.
Mine never could! A very vandal I,
Who love such flimsy things as dark and
rain!
QUEENSLAND.
E. M. ENGLAND.


9
a.
A
mm
m--.
wm
» , jA . #• **
%’ ■ '
I
-.
m
i
■Mi
H
■MhI
■i
I !
&-1
•s I
Jifsilil
4tMH
> 'sJd
■
* JM
li
HHHHH
(MfU
II
iiSI
■n
ss*i
' * .* - . --'
smßM|v -*•*••' •
c
CUT


The Bulletin
Vol. 48—No. 2453.
February 17, 1927.
STILL GOING STRONG.
“Mr Brace, who indulged in an orgy of speech-making across Canada, on his way home from the Imperial Conference, is still going stiong."
OFFICE BOY: “Go away, woman! Can’t you wait till we’ve finished broadcasting?”


The Bulletin
THE NATIONAL AUSTRALIAN NEWSPAPER
“Australia for the White Man.”
Printed and published by William Macleod, of
Musgrave and McLeod Streets, Mosman, for The
Bulletin Newspaper Co., Ltd., at the Office of the
Co., 214 George Street, Sydney, NiS.W., Australia.
Melbourne Office : 154-162 Flinders Street.
London Office: No. 1 Wardour Street (near Picca-
dilly Circus), W.l.
PUBLISHED ONCE A WEEK.
TERMS TO SUBSCRIBERS
(In Advance only).
Posted to any address in Australasia, weekly:
12 months, £1 )s.; 6 mouths, 12s. (id.; 3 months, Is.
To any address Overseas: 12 months, £1 10s.; 6
months, 15s. 6d.; 3 months, Bs.
Cheques, drafts, etc., which should be crossed, and
all llusiness Communications to be addressed to the
Manager.
Special Notice.
All correspondence to be addressed to Box 2521 8.8.,
G.P.0., Sydney.
Insufficiently stamped . letters are liable to be
refused.
The contents of this paper are copyright by the
publishers. The right to reproduce or translate any
part of the contents of this number is hereby expressly
reserved by the publishers.
The Editor will carefully read and, where practic-
able, acknowledge in the “Correspondence” column
all contributions submitted, whether in the form of
Political, Social or other Articles, Verse, Short Tales
or Sketches (those dealing with Australian subjects
and not exceeding two columns in length, or, fay,
3000 words, are specially acceptable), Paragraphs,
Letters or Newspaper Clippings. All. communications
will be regarded as strictly confidential.
The Bulletin will return all unsiiitable MS. when
the address is specified and stamps are enclosed. But
no MS. ivill be returned or preserved unless these
conditions are observed. When MS. is forwarded
without stamps for return it will be understood that
the copy is to be destroyed if not acceptable. Per-
sonal applications for return of MS. cannot receive
attention. Further, The Bulletin desires those
sending MS. to distinctly understand that it is not
responsible for the preservation or transmission of MS.
To Amateurs in Black and White.
Anyone supplying to The Bulletin original
humorous or other topical drawings in line or wash,
of sufficient merit and interest and, adapted for
direct reproduction, or any interesting photograph
illustrative of a current event will be paid for same
on acceptance. Any picture containing a good idea
but unfitted for direct reproduction —i.e., any picture
■which has to be re-drawn —ivill be paid for as a
suggestion only. The conditions under which such
artistic contributions will be received are those
applying to M.S.
To Travellers Abroad.
“The Bulletin’s” representative in London is
U. St. C- Grondona. No. 1 Wardour Street
(near Piccadilly Circus). W.l. Copies of
“The Bulletin” ran be -obtained from him or
the bookstall in the Main Hall at Australia
Also from Messrs. Gordon and Gotch, 75-
70 Earringdon Street, London, E.C.li.; and IF. Daw-
son and Sons, Cannon House, Breams Buildings,
London, EC.).; E. T. Hole, Ilolerth Satire Ser-
vice, )6 Fleet Street, London E.C.; “The British
Australian and New Zealander” )1)-17 Australia
House, Strand, London, W.C.2; F. Algar, 58 Grace-
church Street, London, E.C.3.
South Africa. —The Central News Agency, Cape-
town, Durban and Johannesburg; Dawson and Son,
Capetown and Johannesburg ; Havana House, Durban;
Rhodesia News Agency, Salisbury; Benoni News
Agency, Benoni; Handel House, Kimberley; and
others.
Canada. — G. S. Forsyth and Co., ))l Hastings
Street, Vancouver, B.C.
U.S. A.— Chicago: J. Roland Kay Co., 161 East
Erie Street, N. Michigan Boulevarde; Post Office
News Co., 33 West Monroe Street, Chicago. New
York: Brentano’s, sth Avenue and 27th Street, New
York City; Schultz News Agency. S.E. Corner 6th
Avenue and )2nd Street, New York City; Hotaling’s
News Agency, 203 West )lst Street, New York City.
Washington: Liberty News Co., Seattle, Washington;
Wheatley News Co., 70) Market Street, San Francisco;
Wallace, The Netv Orleans News Man, 105 Royal
Street. New Orleans, La. ; The Wide World News Stand,
5)1) South Main Street, Los Angeles, Cal.
Egypt.— Jacques. llorA and Co., the Colonial
Book and News Stores. Port Said, Egypt.
Hono Kong. —Brewer and Co., 696 Pedder Street l ,
Hong Kong.
China. —Brewer and Co., 31 Nanking Road,
Shanghai, China.
Ceylon. — T. L. De Silva, 39 Chatham Street,
Colombo.
Papua. —Whitten Bros., Samarai and Port Moresby.
Fiji. — A. Barker, Suva ; Harry Gardiner, Metropole
Hairdressing Saloon, Suva.
Overseas Advertising: Representatives.
London. — L. St. C. Grondona, No. 1 Wardour
Street (near Piccadilly Circus), W. 1.; Gordon and
Gotch, 75-79 Earringdon Street, London, E.C.).
U.S.A.— J. Roland Kay Co.. 161 East Erie Street,
N. Michigan Boulevarde, Chicago.
Postage Rates.
Single copies of Tiie Bulletin (registered as a
newspaper) : — Commonwealth, New Zealand and Fiji ;
10oz., Id. United Kingdom: )oz. to 10oz., lid.; each
additional )oz., Id. All Sea Route: 160 z., l)d.
British Possessions and U.S.A.: )oz. or part thereof,
Id. Elsewhere, 20z., Id.
THURSDAY, FEBRUARY 17, 1927.
ON THE EDGE OF A PRECIPICE.
When the city is on fire in sundry places
it isn’t the best time for profound theologi-
cal debate concerning the eastward position,
and if a powerful enemy is at the gate it
is no urgent matter that the date for the
holding of Easter might possibly be improved
upon. For some time past there has been
a recrudescence of Foreign-trade or Low-
tariff or No-tariff agitation, and wiseacres,
quidnuncs and dryasdusts are much in evi-
dence, arguing that if the duties were taken
off bolts, nuts and hobnails these goods
would arrive from abroad so cheaply that
local makers could leave off work for ever
and live on the difference. At the same time
Labor-socialists, Piddingtons and others
lean to the view that even if production is
reduced by having fewer and fewer working
hours and more holidays, that will make no
difference either, for the great natural
resources of the country can stand
it. Also that increased wages and child
endowment expenses and sundries are of
no importance, because the man who pays
can always meet them by drawing on “hidden
reserves.” Yet, amid this feast of theory
and flow of abstract speculation, the facts
remain that Australia isn't producing enough
surplus goods for export to pay for its
imports and cover interest on its outside
debts; that it has been in this state as a
regular thing since 1920 (before that it was
a frequent thing, but there were solvent
years in between) ; and that the position
has become so much worse that exports
seldom pay for imports alone, wherefore the
surplus and the whole extraneous interest
account (which, under this system, is grow-
ing with marvellous rapidity) must be some-
how liquidated out of new borrowings.
* * * *
Trade figures for the last half of 1926
have been issued, and they are more interest-
ing than the average newspaper serial.
Imports of merchandise were £7,183,497
more than for the last half of 1925, and
exports of merchandise were £10,901,318
less. In consequence the country was over
£18,000,000 further from paying its way in
the later half than in the earlier one, and
the way was longer by reason of a greatly
increased interest bill, and 1925-26, though
better than 1926-27 promises to be, was a
very bankrupt-looking year. The diminu-
tion of exports might be partly due to
reduced values, but it was largely due to
having less to send away. The increase in
imports, seeing that there was no general
rise in prices, indicated that Australia is
even less able than before to supply its own
requirements, and also that, being spoiled
by the easy loan life, it has acquired too
many requirements. The figures, as pub-
lished, are somewhat obscured by a curious
transaction in gold. During 1924-25 the
banks imported (otherwise borrowed)
£10,500,000 worth of gold coin to meet an
emergency or crisis which failed to event-
uate. Most of this was returned during
the latter part of 1926, and this deal, which
had nothing to do with Australia’s capacity
for paying its way, made the position look
better than it was —and exceedingly bad
even then. Reckoning the gold export as
if it was all our own, the States or Com-
monwealth, or the nation in general, was
£29,000,000 short of meeting its half-year’s
liabilities, which was an example of going
into the ditch at the rate of £58,000,000 per
annum. Making allowance for that part of
the exports which was merely a return of
trust funds or other people’s goods, the
country went to the bad to the extent of
about £37,000,000, or at the rate of
£74,000,000 per annum. There was never
anything like this for record badness in the
past, and there can’t be many such instances
in the future without acute breakage of some
sort. The “approximate annual obligations
abroad for interest and services,” as the
Federal Statistician phrases it, otherwise
the annual dead horse to be paid out of that
surplus of exports over imports which Aus-
tralia doesn’t possess, was £22,000,000 a
year when the war finished. It now exceeds
£30,000,000.
* * * *
If J. T. Lang’s newest loan materialises
in full, N. S. Wales will have planted abroad
£18,000,000 worth of lOU inside 12 months,
in addition to taking what it could get
locally. Being the most embarrassed State,
it made the most violent rush to the pawn-
shop, and it met with remarkable success.
The assurances of the Langs and their kind
that the prosperity, such as it is, which is
bought with the multitudinous lOU is
genuine, permanent and the result of honest
toil is one reason why a rather more un-
restful spirit than usual is abroad. When
the N. S. Wales child-endowment system gets
to work it will add 6 or 61 per cent, to the
employer’s wage bill, and he will also be
income-taxed on an increased scale to pro-
vide child endowment for Government em-
ployees. The N. S. Wales coalminers think
the time opportune to demand a general
advance of wages, being fully convinced that
the “hidden reserves” can stand any strain,
and a general strike is spoken of. A demand
for a 44-hour week with pay for 48 hours
is pressed by the N. S. Wales ironworkers,
and “direct action” is possible as a matter
of course. A Brisbane strike for a week
of 40 hours received a decorative touch
when a deputation of ladies endeavored to
see Premier McCormack about getting sup-
port out of the empty Treasury for the
strikers and their families. The Premier
avoided the embarrassing interview in the
most natural way by starting for Melbourne
to see about a loan. As people of the type
of Lang and Piddington anxiously insist,
there is really a certain amount of affluence
inside, the house, though not so much as
they imagine, and the squabbles about the
proper division of it are loud and fierce.
What they fail to observe is that the house
is preparing to fall in on top of the squab-
blers. Yet when the lOU boom slows down
or stops or starts on a devastating backwash
the boys of the old Labor brigade won’t
stultify themselves by admitting that there
is a burst, or that there was a boom, for
that would be to acknowledge the necessity
of retrenchment. The regulation process
will be to shout for the blood of the con-
spirators who have “betrayed the workers,”
and to commence a bitter fight against the
laws of arithmetic, as the British coal-
miners did.
THE OPPRESSED MIDDLE CLASS.
Cartoonists, who have to keep fairly close
to the broad facts of human existence if
they want to exert any influence or raise
sympathetic laughs, divide society, for poli-
tical purposes, into three orders—the pluto-
crat, the manual laborer and a harassed-
looking, middle-aged, middle-class man
labelled “Taxpayer.” Certainly the middle-
class man is the special prey of tax-gatherers,
the taxes being so framed that he cannot
escape. Just as certainly the plutocrat can
pass taxation on by raising prices, or avoid
it by investing in tax-free securities—to
which, by the way, there will be a vast addi-
tion if the Commonwealth Government
carries out its crazy notion of quitting the
income-tax field. And the manual laborer
is not only exempt from direct taxation, but
is assisted to pay indirect taxation by all
manner of grants from the public funds.
From the cradle to the grave the laboring
man, who is important, but not so
important that nobody else, matters, is
the principal preoccupation of the modern
htate, as Australians know it. At his
birth the State rushes in with a baby
bonus, and free attendance in a maternity
hospital, if asked for. The State carves out
his tonsils if he develops adenoids; cares for
him in measles, typhoid, diphtheria, scarlet
fever; gives him a free education, and sees
that he has a job so long as there is a public
road'that can be taken up or a sewer that
can be laid down. If all the roads and
sewers are finished it gives him a job, any-
how. And while he works on that job—
or strikes on it —politicians are striving to
reduce his hours of toil and increase the
remuneration he receives therefor, with bor-
rowed money, if necessary. And when he
marries and begets children the respon-
sibility for them is increasingly taken off
his shoulders. If he yearns for a house
the State will advance him almost the whole
cost at a rate of interest as low as Ford
or Rockefeller would pay if they deposited
bundles of gilt-edged securities with a banker.
Employers’ Liability, Workmen’s Compensa-
tion, Unemployment Insurance, Old Age and
Invalid Pensions, Fair Rents and Compulsory
Arbitration Acts (providing, among other
things, for preference to unionists) have been
passed for his benefit, as also have basic-wage
enactments to ensure his getting enough to
maintain a wife and two (or three) children,
real or imaginary. And the N. S. Wales Gov-
ernment has produced a scheme (which it
invites the other States arid the Common-
wealth to copy) for paying him ss. a week for
each of his children under 14 years of ago.
From this scheme the middle class is deliber-
ately excluded, as it is from the same Gov-
ernment’s house-building proposals and all its
industrial legislation.
* . * # •
The middle-class citizen is invariably
excluded when Governments begin to hand
out benefits. If he falls sick, meets with
an accident or loses his employment for
some other reason, that is his affair, not the
State’s. He must pay his rates and taxes just
the same, and no shirking. Also, he must pay
the doctor and the hospital and the chemist,
while paying the usual tribute to the butcher
and the baker —no free treatment for him. By
making personal sacrifices, in many cases, lie
sends his children to private schools and col-
leges, and thus saves the State the cost of
educating them. But the State doesn’t let
him deduct school fees from taxable income
when he is preparing his taxation paper. It
makes him pay twice—once in taxation to
maintain the State system of education and
again to educate his own children. It even
takes it out of him by taxing the mutual
office in which lie has a life policy, which is
equivalent to robbery of widows and child-
ren. In numerous instances, he has cause to
envy the affluence of a rahbiter or a rat-
catcher in good standing; and when he has
put aside the money for the tax-gatherer, the
life-assurance office, the doctor, the college and
so forth, lie has a lot less to spend than many
an unskilled laborer. But his gross income
is just sufficiently above the manual worker’s
average to put him in the white-collared, non-
unionised group. In that group are to be
found the majority of metropolitan taxpayers.
There is no social group with less cohesion.
Yet there is no group more in need of
defence; more heavily taxed without repre-
sentation ; more neglected and disregarded by
politicians.
* * * *
Where is the middle-class taxpayer to look
for political deliverance? If he supports
Labor he puts rods in pickle for his own
back. If he votes Nationalist (he usually
does) he cannot escape an uneasy feeling
that he is merely defending the cause of the
rich. Between the rotund gentleman in the
white waistcoat and the politician-petted chap
in dungaree pants the little fellow in the
middle feels like a grain of wheat between
the upper and nether millstones. And yet with-
out him society would merge into some such
horrible servile state as has been pictured
by imaginative novelists like Wells and Lon -
don. " His class provides the thinkers and
scientists and artists of the community. Its
habit of paying its debts and preserving its
independence makes it the last stronghold of
character. It is not what the Victorian Eng-
lish used to call middle-class, or even lower
middle-class —that meant poor relations of
the aristocracy. It is the class that contains
the greatest proportion of brain-workers in
every State, and it shows its brains in every-
thing save predatoriness. Politically it is a
cipher, partly, perhaps, because it’ despises
politicians ; partly because it is too busy to
play politics. But Governments like Lang’s
may end by convincing it that it will never
get political justice until it has its own repre-
sentatives in Parliament. If that conviction
is implanted in its mind there will be no
more Governments like Lang’s —or Fuller’s
either.
THE DRIFT FROM THE COUNTRY.
Put ill a nutshell, the reason for the drift
from the country to the city is merely that
the attractions and material benefits of life
in the city far outweigh those of country
life. The trouble is not so much an exodus
from the country, though that is going on, as
a failure of the country districts to attract
population and grow in proportion as the
cities grow. It is necessary to bear in mind
that there are two classes of country dwellers
—those who are engaged in agriculture, and
those who are not. There is no serious or
general drift from the ranks of the first
class. Agriculture is still a payable busi-
ness in a reasonable percentage of cases, and
if, in new settlements, a settler finds himself
obliged to ride second-class to a lorry-driving
job in the city, it is not long before his
holding is taken up by someone else. More-
over, though some new ventures, such as
poultry farms in Westralia, some fruit farms
in Vic., and the first division of the Goomealla
area in N.S.W., were failures, the fault was
to be found with the administrations that
fathered them. Whenever a new area of
decent land, offering sufficient transport and
other facilities to give a settler any chance
of success, is thrown open, the rush of appli-
cants is tempestuous. The second class of
country dweller comprises wage-earners,,
tradespeople, professional men and the
general population of country towns. It. is
amongst this class that there is a drift.
Portion of its natural increase is forced to
leave the country, for as the children come
of age there is little absorption of their
services. It does not need the bright lights
of the city to allure youth when it cannot
find a job in its country town. To under-
stand why many members of this class have
the inclination to leave for the city, why
other workers (meaning active and effective
members of the community) do not go to the
country, and why country towns do not get
any appreciable share of that large population
which is able to live where it pleases—retired
professional and business men and farmers,
superannuated workers, people of independent
means, and the like —it is only necessary to
glance at the conditions of life in a typical
country town.
A particular Murray River town in Vic-
toria is taken as typical. Here the high
cost of living is a drawback, in the first
place. Naturally, supplies mostly come from
the city ; and, just as naturally, they are sold
at city prices, plus freight rates, plus a
(quite legitimate) percentage charged by the
retailer on what he has to pay the Railway
Department. Thus groceries have a freight
rate of £4 10s. a ton tacked on to them,
together with £1 10s. a ton to recompense
the grocer for his expenditure of the £4 10s.,
grocers’ recognised margin being 33 per cent,
on cost (25 per cent, on selling price).
Retailers can add a bigger margin still with
little risk of being deserted for city firms,
because goods cannot be obtained from the
city by individual customers ‘ without delay,
risk of loss or damage in transit, risk of
extra freight charges in having to return
unsuitable goods, and the dissatisfaction
attending the purchase of articles without see-
ing them. Nor is the strain on the pocket
lessened in the case of supplies produced in
the district. The practice in towns any dis-
tance from the city is to set the price, not
by the cost of production, but by what it
would cost to bring a similar article from the
city. Such necessities as milk, butter, vege-
tables and bread are sold at yet higher
rates, because they cannot be brought fresh
from the city. Fresh sea-food is obtainable
very seldom (practically never in summer on
account of the difficulty of transport) and
only at high prices. Fish from the Murray
is one of the few benefits. Meat is very
dear, and the quality is not of the best. A
few graziers possess the only available land in
the district suitable for producing beef and
mutton, or for holding what comes from
other parts. They send their prime stock
to southern markets ; local residents get what
is left, and pay tnrough the nose for it. The
average dwelling is built on a small allot-
ment, so there is nothing in growing vege-
tables ; if a man grew all the family require-
ments he would not save ss. a week, while
the rent is about £1 a week over the city
equivalent. Oysters, pasteurised or sterilised
milk, and a score of articles desirable for an
invalid’s diet are out of the question.
And there are other disadvantages. Does
a man want a water-color for his walls, a
piece of pottery or decent china, or a clock
for his mantel, he must send to the city
for it and accept the choice of some shop-
assistant. The only public entertainments
are a picture-show and a jazz-hall. There
are no public gardens where one may
walk or listen to a band, nor any roadside
teahouses. Wireless is, of course, available,
but it comes expensive; the town is so far
from the broadcasting centres that crystal-
sets are useless. Finally, the early settlers
of the district, having had rather a thin time
during their pioneering years, have learned
habits of thrift and makeshift which amount
in some cases to meanness. This is under-
standable, and excusable in the circumf
stances, but it impregnates the life of the
district to an extent that comparative new-
comers find unpleasant and even sordid. In
the shops, for instance, you find goods that
are either starkly utilitarian or plainly
shoddy—tin baths rather than enamel ones,
hessian rather than duck, cheap Japanese
china in preference to sound English stuff,
and so forth. In short, the conditions are
unattractive compared with conditions in
the city ; so people—particularly young people
—go and do not return, nor do others come
to take their places.
Cbcesus.
PLAIN ENGLISH.
Theodore, the Non-Borrower.
E. G. Theodore might have some imposing
features when viewed through a telescope,
but when Sydney saw him with the naked
eye and heard him with the naked ear, he
seemed, politically, as common as mud. He
is a man of platitudes, and his platitudes
are no better than those of the man next
door. He opened his campaign with the old
Communist idea about the confiscation of
the apparatus of production from its pre-
sent holders, who arc “capitalists” by reason
of holding anything, and “the co-operative
ownership of industry by the workers.” If
really carried out the plan would probably
be a repetition of the short-lived fiasco of
New Australia in Paraguay, the place where
everybody had a theoretical and undivided
and unrealisable share iii everything, and
nobody had personal property in anything
except his bitter grudge against all his
fellow co-operators for not doing their proper
share of the work. But probably Queens-
land’s ex-figurehead was picturing in a
purely theoretical way a state like conscript
Russia in the crude early days of the Revolu-
tion, when the managers, inventors, organ-
isers of industry, and generally the men
who Knew How, were eliminated, and con-
trol was nominally handed oyer to the crowd
in general, but where Marxian politicians,
irremovable except when , they removed
each other, sat in high places and ran the
show. He gave no indication how the indus-
trial revolution is to be brought about.
The Great Reject of Queensland was
equally unsatisfactory with his explanation
as to how, should lie climb into Federal
power, he proposed to free Labor Govern-
ments from the need “to borrow money from
their worst enemies politically,” ‘and to run
cooperative Australia without* overseas
loans. The tremendous deed, ho'said, if th e
press report doesn’t lie worse than usual,
could be clone by the proper organisation of credit
in Australia. The Commonwealth Government I'*®
a wonderful opportunity in the Commonwealth Bank.
That sort of thing is good soap-box oratory


of the Sunday Domain brand, but it lacks
the one thing needful, which is detail. No-
body has yet shown how credit, even if a
co-operative State of the Russian or New
Australia sort has any, and even if it is
“organised,” can pay annually £20,000,000
to £30,000,000 of interest abroad in gold, or
in surplus goods which can turn into gold.
That is the sum for which Australia is liable
even if it borrows no more, and at present
it meets much of the liability by borrowing
more. If it is proposed, by any chance, to
simplify the process of doing without new
loans by default on old ones, or plain
repudiation, the position should be made
clear. Whenever a party or a politician
talks loose projects for stealing factories,
workshops and industries in general from
their owners, whether they are to be handed
over to co-operative workers or not, there
is always a fear lest the thievery, assuming
it to actually get going, may spread, and
the embezzlement run riot, and the robbery
bolt off the track.
Other features of the alleged coming lead-
er’s policy are an all-round 44-hour week,
so that the co-operative country may earn
more by doing less; the “development of
Australia” (that same weary old develop-
ment), the “peopling of this vast continent”
(which is painfully familiar), and the “rais-
ing of the standard of living” (apparently
the hoisting of the Red Flag). But of ail
the propositions of this painfully ordinary
platitudinarian, the financial schemes are
the most tantalising. It is sorrowful to
think that in his long, noisy, scrambling,
money-wasting, non-financial day of great-
ness in the North, he neglected to found a
Bank of Wonderful Opportunity up there,
and do some proper organisation of credit
in Queensland, and thereby run that State
without the aid of the overseas money-market.
If these things can be done in a Common-
wealth which is about one-fourth of the
Empire, they are equally possible in a State
which is about one-fourth of the Common-
wealth. The Christian Church was content
to begin setting its bright example in a
smaller province than any the Common-
wealth possesses, and Theodoke shouldn’t
stand on his dignity so much more than the
Church did.
. <►
Australians and Chinese Judges.
As Australians in China now know that
they may some day be subject to Chinese
jurisdiction, they are watching with keen
interest the doings at the Special Provi-
sional Court in Shanghai. The S.P.C. is
the old Mixed Court which was handed over
to Chinqpe Judges and the Chinese criminal
code at the beginning of the year. Nothing
happened _ at the first week’s sittings to
which serious objection could be taken. Cer-
tainly the Celestial Solons (dressed in
traditional Chinese judicial garb) refused to
accede to the request of the foreign police
that some undesirables should be expelled
from the Settlement; but as the undesirables
could only be unloaded on to the rest of
China, which has its full quota, the Judges’
viewpoint was understandable. Also, a man
charged with cruelty to an animal was dis-
charged, as there was nothing in the laws
to deal with him. Still, that may come
later. Even the old Chinese code wasn’t
so unreasonable as is popularly supposed.
It wasn’t as insane as the Zend-Avesta, or
so artless as the Malayan undang-undang,
which declared that a man charged with an
offence against a woman had no defence if
the lady could produce portion of liis raiment.
(The 99 Daws of Perak, Law 5.) The
modern Chinese code is practically a trans-
lation of the Japanese code, which was copied
from the German, and which the British
Government led the world by recognising in
189 a, thereby gaining much prestige. The
Republic has made fragmentary efforts to
get the new code applied, but, owing to the
general turmoil, hasn’t succeeded very well.
Nor can much fault be found with the
modern Chinese prison. There is one at
I’eking, and when a dozen of the inmates
seized it the remaining TOO assisted to put
down the revolt. This prison has hot baths,
schools, technical classes and a bank for
prisoners’ earnings. The trouble is that there
are only one or two such examples. Over the
rest of the country convicts still sit in
wooden cages tor long and insanitary periods.
There is also a shortage of magistrates
trained to examine witnesses without resort
to the bamboo. However, there is a law-
school at Peking ready to flood the land with
forensic genius, once it gets the chance; and
m the foreign settlements there is a large
native Costs brigade, which has learnt from
its European brethren how to conduct a
case and also how to calculate its fees.
The British Government is not likely to
hand its people over to Chinese judicial
care at one fell swoop. The process will be
gradual and subject to local circumstances.
But, considering the advantages gained and
the trouble averted by similar action in
Japan, it is a good thing Britain has made
the offer.
The Wise Men Who Are Coming.
Dear Bulletin, —In his opening oration
after his return from globe-trotting afar,
the Prime Minister discoursed with a silver
tongue and faultless gestures upon many
subjects. The most graspable point among
the many was that an arrangement has been
made with the British Government for the
export to these shores of a deputation, com-
posed of wealth, experience and immense
practical intelligence to —well, in short, to
have a fly round, and look at things, and
talk. It sounded harmless enough as Bruce
put it, but the London Morning Post’s ver-
sion is terrifying. Says that influential
organ:—
Men must be found who are accustomed to spending
millions, who can visualise the creation of vast
industries in the wilderness, and who are familiar
with economics and railroad building. When selected
they will go to Australia, and act as an advisory and
not as an executive body. Their work will be to
make Australia receive and absorb a gigantic popu-
i ? a ,■ They "411 collaborate with the existing
Australian Development and Migration Commission,
their joint deliberations will mark the beginning of
a new era. It will be a task to take Australia in
nand and lay it out to the best advantage. It is
town-planning on a vast scale. Nothing like it has
e'er been attempted before.
And supposing these tremendous purple
shadows, with their habit of spending mil-
lions of (presumably) other people’s money,
do arrive and commence to buzz around, mak-
ing noises like an aeroplane and a vacuum-
cleaner, what next? What towns are they
likely to plan, and what railways will any-
body allow them to build? Which industries
are they likely to establish, in which wilder-
nesses? As for- being familiar with econo-
mics, it is to be presumed that some of the
imposing creatures will be Freetraders, and
some will be Protectionists, and most of
tliem will believe in piecework, and the whole
caboodle will urge a uniform railway-gauge
and do so with all their might. They can
be relied upon to remark unanimously that
Australia has many good ports which should
be busy haunts of commerce, yet they are
going to waste. They will favor the com-
pletion of the transcontinental railway; they
may go so far as to lament the decay of
coastal shipping; and there is a chance that
some will recommend indentured nigger labor
to do the “spadework” in advance of British
settlement. The State Governments control
most of the matters that a bell-toppered
British delegation is likely to want to advise
about, and some State Governments tell Fed-
eral advisers to go to perdition on principle.
They resent remarks about such mild trifles
as their debts or their stop-work policies.
Even if the imported counsellors are the very
best men, and not simply men with time
on their hands, they may fail to produce
results. It is unlikely that they will tell
the Prime Minister more than he knows
already about the importance of putting
life insurance under strict Federal super-
vision, so that when some bankrupt crooks
proceed to collect premiums for the Austral-
asian Drunkenness and Mutual Admiration
Life Assurance Society said malefactors may
be promptly put in a large stone or concrete
public building. If they tendered skilled
opinion about how to prevent Tasmania
losing population at the rate of 15,000 per
annum, it would probably require a strong
man to follow the same, though, if the dele-
gation is of a commercial sort, a proposal
for the repeal of the Navigation Act would
be within its province. And it would be
banal and hackneyed if they proposed a uni-
form marriage law, or said that the compul-
sory signing of political articles during an
"election is a crazy mass of tripe, and that
there is nothing, like it in Afghanistan.—
Yours, etc., Griffith Moses.
♦
Free Land in Maoriland.
When the Prime Ministers went to Britain
last year they were told with tears in
the eyes of the tellers that something really
would have to be done to turn the dole-
winners of Seven Dials and places like that
into bronzed and bearded farmers. Coates,
of Maoriland, was recommended to con-
sider the splendid example of Canada—if
he had paid attention to facts he would
have known that Canada doesn’t take as
many British immigrants to-day as it did
13 years ago—and in an expansive moment
he said something about offering the
“migrant” to Maoriland a 400-acre block
free. As a farmer of sorts, Coates ought
to know that he himself couldn’t make a
living off 4000 acres of the kind of land
that is available for the newcomer who
wants a buckshee proposition. Maoriland
contains a mere 66,000,000 acres altogether,
and 43,000,000 acres are already in occupa-
tion. After nearly 90 years of raking-over,
it may be assumed that the eyes have been
picked out of the selection. Of 18,500,000
acres listed as under cultivation, 90 per cent,
is laid down in grass. No doubt the Crown
has many thousands of acres that could
be profitably occupied' by persons with
£3OOO a year of a private income and a
penchant for sheep-farming, but the
“migrant” who tries to knock out a living
on 400 acres will often wish himself back
in West Ham.
Of course, our “migrant” will have a bit
of aid. If he grows apples or churns butter
the State will market it for him—it won’t
give him any option in the matter —and if
the marketing board makes a loss it’s an
even bet that the taxpayers will have to
foot the deficiency. And if he can’t pay his
taxes a Government that advertises itself
as a “Farmers’ Government” won’t be too
hard on him. Farmers’ mortgages in Maori-
land were protected by a moratorium for
six years after the war. Even farmers’ co-
operative trading concerns that to the ordi-
nary eye weren’t in any essential respect
better or worse than any other joint-stock
company had special laws passed to absolve
them from paying their debts. But, even so,
the prospect of making a competence on any
such moderately small holding as is likely
to be granted to a newcomer, free of rent, is
pitifully remote. The failures, it may be
presumed, will graduate as farm laborers,
provided they don’t go back to Britain or
move on to Australia. Maoriland’s immi-
gration system, to unagrarian eyes, has for
years seemed to be a gaudy device for get-
ting cheap farm labor.
The new scheme, in short, promises to
achieve the same results as others which
have been tried. The “migrants” won’t stay
put on the farm. But by the time they get
off there will be some other aspirants for
colonial experience coming along, and these
will spend their first few w°eks with Straw-
berry. Considered as attempts at reassort-
ing the population of the Empire, these little
jokes are rather ineffectual.
*
Queensland Grazing Selections.
“H. Propsting” : “The object of the Crown
is to give each grazing selector an area that
will carry from four to five thousand sheep.”
Thus the Queensland Minister for Lands.
The area of all recent Central and N.Q.
grazing selections offered to the public is
from eight to twelve thousand acres. Hence
it would seem that the Lands Department
has decided to class the land of Central and
N.Q. as being of the same carrying capacity
as the resumed Mt. Abundance station in the
Maranoa. The Court, in fixing the value of
Mt. Abundance for purchase by the Crown,
found the carrying capacity to be between
two and two and a half acres to the sheep.
In arriving at this decision “position” was
one of the main factors. The position of Mt.
Abundance is almost unique in Queensland.
It is bounded by a railway, and should the
monsoon miss, agistment is close under the
heavy rainfall of Darling Downs or the
Hunter district of N.S.W., or .Cunnamulla,
and the stock may appear, with the bloom
still on them, at Enoggera or Homebush.
Then Roma is a farming district, and relief
country can be got from partially failing
crops ; also, the rainfall is 24 inches. Com-
pare this position with the Central and N.Q.
lands. There are railways, but they lead to
no different climate; there are no farms to be
grazed; there is no Homebusli, and the rain-
fall is under 18 inches. A man in this back-
country is out of reach of everything; when
dry times come, woe to him if he is over-
stocked, for there is no escape. He seldom
has a railway on his boundary, and sometimes
when he does have rail and trucking yards
there is no water for his stock before truck-
ing, which debars him from making the
attempt. Any man working on the basis of
Crown valuation will fail. The country will
carry one sheep to two acres for 12 months,
sometimes, but more often it will not. The
usual number run by the experienced man is
never more than one sheep to three and a half
acres, which is under 3000 sheep on a 10,000-
acre block —not sufficient to give as good a
return as that looked for by an average
shearer.
♦
The Vanishing Jury.
The jury system, if it has not fallen into
disrepute in modern days, has lost some-
thing of that sanctity which formerly per-
vaded it. For this there are various reasons.
Revelations as to jury-squaring, which led
to special legislation being passed, have
diminished the respect of Victorians for the
system. In Queensland public opinion has
been influenced in the same direction by the
impossibility of getting convictions from
juries, members of which have been notori-
ously intimidated, notably at Innisfail. And
there is the matter of unconscious bias.
When public prints were few and newspaper
sensationalism was unknown, the average
juryman came with an unclouded mind to
the performance of his task. There was no
need for him to make an effort of negation
before presenting to the Court a mind on
which like a clean slate could be written
the facts, and such facts only as were pre-
sented to h ! im. Nowadays it would, at all
events in criminal matters of notoriety, be
difficult to find a juryman so ill-informed on
current happenings that he would not have
some ideas on the indictment submitted to
him. Even free-and-easy discussions at the
breakfast-table and on the train and tram
would leave some impress on his mind.
The Federal Constitution provides ex-
pressly that trials on indictment shall be by
jury, thus following the ancient precedent,
but makes no mention of juries in civil cases.
There is therefore no constitutional obliga-
tion with regard to the trying of these cases.
Rut the omission to make it obligatory can-
not, and has not, been construed as a denial
of power to the constitutional authority to
either require or allow the interposition of a
jury. The principle adopted has been to
allow a party to a suit to apply to the Court
or a Justice of the Court for a trial with a
jury on the issues of fact, or the Court may
of its own volition direct such a trial for
reasons that may appear to it, as, for
example, that the issue of fact could be more
conveniently tried in that way.
The trial of civil issues by juries is a very
ancient practice, and only since the drastic
reforms in British legal procedure brought
about by the Judicature Act of last century
has a more liberal view with regard to the
practice crept in. In modern England it is
not too much to say that, in the vast majority
of civil cases where issues of fact could, if
so desired, be left to a jury, and only ques-
tions of law reserved to the Judge, both facts
and law are now left to the latter. The
same tendency is seen in our Australian
courts, and has prepared the way for the
latest development in Federal Judicature.
The Federal Capital Commission proposes
the abolition of trial by jury in all civil
cases where the actions come within Federal
Ciipital Territory jurisdiction. Such cases
will be tried by a Judge without a jury.
The proposal of the Federal Capital Com-
mission will have to go before the Federal
Parliament for endorsement, but there is
little doubt of it becoming law. Perhaps it
is an indication of crumbling at the basis
of the “palladium of British justice.” The
statue of Pallas fell from Heaven —the day
may come when its fragments will be picked
up on earth.
4
The Balcony Life.
In a communicative moment Sydney Tele-
graph lately mentioned that shabby, back-
streety Paddington contains 2241 balconies
and verandahs on which people cook and
sleep. At the same time the Victoria Bar-
racks occupy a space on which, the paper
said, “many houses might be built to relieve
the congestion.” The tale is plausible, but
it is doubtful if the supply of 224,100 small
houses would wholly relieve the congestion.
They would be available for purchase by
the person of small means on the usual com-
plicated terms, which are something as fol-
lows: The buyer pays perhaps 10 per cent,
deposit. lie gives a first mortgage at ordi-
nary interest to a financial institution for
perhaps 60 per cent. He gives the builder
a second mortgage at 10 per cent, for the
balance, and the builder sells the shaky
security at a loss, having provided against
the loss in advance by adding the regulation
amount to the price of the domicile. There
is nothing dishonest about the transaction.
The builder builds that Jhe may live. He
dare not let his houses until J. T. Lang is
dead, because the Bare Rents Court might
cut his net returns, even if he could collect
them, below what he pays for the use of
money himself. Therefore he trades the
only way that coarse socialists in authority
will let him. Meanwhile, some people lead
the squalid balcony or back-yard life for
want of the necessary deposit. Some have
possibly bought and lost a time-payment
humpy before, and are sick of the game.
Some are semi-nomadic by habit or by the
necessities of their occupation, and it is
a serious handicap if the snail can’t move
on his lawful business, or to avoid his credi-
tors. unless he first finds a solvent fellow
snail to buy his shell, after which he has
to purchase a new shell elsewhere himself.
So the nasty balcony-dwelling habit is more
likely to increase than diminish, partly be-
cause population grows and partly because
the old, shabby rented terraces must fall
down some day. And because it isn’t worth
while to rebuild them, even if the owner
recovered possession for the purpose, Sydney
tends to become a place with many shabby
old localities.
Australian Wool and Foreign Buyers.
“Trepex” : “ J.D.C.” correctly explains why
Australian pastoralists in general prefer
the sheep which yields the bigger and coarser
fleece to that which gives them the finer
staple (B. 10/2/’27). The woolgrower is
prepared to give away something in the
price per pound in order to get the better
value per head and a bigger carcase, to say
nothing of a stronger-constitutioned animal.
In any case, how much does he give away
in the price per pound? A very interesting
piece of evidence came up at the recent Syd-
ney sales. On the one broker’s floor and on
the one day two big standard clips were
offered. One was of fine up to superfine
quality; the other was a coarse merino
article. The first clip sold up to 35|d.
for an odd choice line; the broad clip made
only SIR But the latter averaged 19fd. as
against not quite ISJd. for the fine wool.
The offerings had almost exactly the same
number of bales (well over 700 each), and
were equally well handled for sale. Though
the fine one carried a little more burr, the
advantage was overwhelmingly with the
broad clip, because the sheep would have
cut three or four pounds more wool per head.
Continental wool-buyers are the biggest pur-
chasers of the fine article. They offer attrac-
tive prices for the choicest lots, but it is
noticeable that the next-best gain scant
favor over ordinary quality. It is easier
to maintain a high standard in broad wool
than in the finer quality. Why then should
we desert our own payable practice? The
onus is not on the Australian producer
alone. When the foreigner will give prices
tor fine wool. commensurate with the diffi-
culty of growing it, it will be good business
to let him have what lie is crying out for.
By the way, if S’Africa is giving consumers
a silky staple it is accident as much as
anything else.. The fleece naturally grows
thin and fine in that country. That is why
Afrikanders have been coming to Australia
for many years to get stud sheep that will
strengthen and densen their wool for them.
Many of our stud breeders keep a special
line of sheep for the Afrikanders—the
strongest-woolled stuff they can pick out.
He Wasn’t a Stadium Pugilist.
"X.N.0.” : The Great War showed what we
could do by way of raising an army at short
notice. With the naval service it is differ-
ent. Ships cannot be created, like batta-
lions, by a signature to a royal proclama-
tion. It takes at least three years under
war conditions to turn a man of average
intelligence into a tolerably useful “able
seaman —seaman gunner,” or ditto torpedo-
man. The navy in wartime has therefore
to rely for a very long period on the ships
and personnel that are ready on the expira-
tion of the ultimatum. It cannot make
up leeway as the army can. Australia
is the part of the Empire which is most
dependent on naval defence. If naval defence
is present in adequate force at the right
moment, it can render military defence un-
necessary. A comprehensive sea-policy of
some sort is necessary. It is the general
public that must ultimately approve such
a course. One useful way of enlisting the
public’s aid—it was adopted in England by
the Admiralty at the end of the war—is
by means of interesting lectures stressing
more the human than the technical side of
the navy’s work. An attempt to do the same
thing on a small scale in Sydney was
recently made by the N.S.W. Navy League
when Commander Arthur Marsden was in-
vited to lecture on his experiences at Jutland.
Marsden commanded the destroyer Ardent,
and was the sole —and wounded—survivor of
that ship after she had been sunk by the
hell that the Germans made for our small
craft on May 31, 1916. The lecture was
well advertised, it was free, it was absorb-
ingly interesting and shorn of technicalities;
but the King’s Hall was half /empty. A
large portion of the audience was composed
of Navy League cadets, who attended at the
suggestion of their officers. Only two Syd-
ney papers bothered to send reporters, and
their subseouent references occupied only
3J inches each; one of them incidentally
gave the name of Marsden’s ship as the
Arden, and described him as a Commodore.
Any Stadium boxer or Japanese swimmer
can command a civic reception at Sydney
Town Hall, but a man like Marsden, who
is responsible in no small measure for the
fact that Australia is still a free country,
comes here for an exceedingly important
purpose and is practically cold-shouldered.
The attendance at the King’s Hall was little
short of an insult. It is too lafie to correct
the mistake this time, but it is to be hoped
that the Navy League will try again and see
whether, its next distinguished visitor cannot
be received with the same courtesy and
interest as, say, a third-rate French bruiser.
The Half-Prohibitionist.
“C.Q.”: One often hears the IJ.S.A. aspersed
on the ground that prohibition is a huge
swindle on the proletariat, who are hounded
down by law-enforcement officers for try-
ing to get the drink which the Best People
have placed at their elbows whenever they
care to call for it. But isn’t the half-pro-
hibition in these parts tarred with the same
brush? I read almost every day in Mel-
bourne papers of shady grog-shops and work-
ing-men’s inns being raided after hours, but
I know perfectly well that, I can walk a
couple of blocks, enter an ornate portal,
order a drink and openly swill it in a com-
fortable lounge, surrounded by dozens of
other lawbreakers also engaged in absorbing-
illegal booze. Nor are expensive hotels the
only ignorers of the -law. Some clubs make
a pretence of closing the regular bar, but
another smaller one invariably opens simui
taneously in another room or on another
floor. When George Y. gave up his daily
shandy to help the boys win the war, Aus
tralia patriotically decided to follow suit
but the only result in my club was that mem-
bers had to fetch their tipplG instead of the
steward bringing it to them. Although the
prohibitionist must know these things
he is silent upon them, presumably because
he is aware of the hopelessness of his
cause but hates to admit it for fear
his undemocratic occupation would be
gone. His latest project is a referendum of
the whole of Australia aimed at making the
Federal Capital permanently dry. The area
of the object of his crusade is 940 square


Quality CtaatedtAe demand
TTuuntaMU tAe S-ale
Army Club
lO for 9d. CIGARETTES 20 for 1/6
In pure ribbed watermarked rice paper.
CAVANDEKS Ltd., London (Est. 1775). Pioneers of Hygienic Cisrarette Packing.
&
J
m
cs^
CORK-TIPPED
or PLAIN
miles, or .03 p.e. of the total area of the
continent. Tlie population in 1925 was 4721,
or .07 of the total, and though this figure is
shortly to be increased it isn't:likely to be
more than trebled. How stopping the grog,
or pretending to stop the grog, of this
handful can be claimed as a triumph for the
principle of prohibition, or for any principle,
is hard to understand.
♦
In the Track of the Storm.
)N Wednesday of last week the approach of
i cyclone was notified by the meteorological
tation on Willis Island, 180 miles east-
north-east of Cairns (N.Q.). The storm
that arrived at Cairns and neighboring dis-
tricts was not the ordinary affair that
weather-men ticket with the name of cyclone,
because its motion is rotary, but a visitant
of the kind that is fraught with disaster and
is never forgotten by those who experience
it. The gale that swept through Cairns
nearly carried Cairns with it, and the rain
that followed the gale was, for a while, an
almost solid sheet of water. The Barron,
the Tully, the Herbert and other rivers
formed seas of flood water, threatening _to
engulf hospitals, boarding-houses and the like
in which settlers' sought refuge. At the
time of writing, when a full tally of the toll
of wind and flood had not been completed, it
was certain that 30 lives had been lost and
that damage amounting to hundreds of thou-
sands of pounds had been done to houses,
crops, live stock and public works.
Only part of North Queensland was
affected—in the north-west, useful rains
fell—but the people of that part have been
confronted with a disaster of the first mag-
nitude. True to North Queensland traditions,
they stood up to it and faced it down. With
houses rocking on their foundations and
huge muddy streams carrying dead men,
sheep, cattle and the fragments of buildings
towards the sea, residents gathered, to-
gether, organised food supplies, and, with
boats and motor-cars, saved scores of lives
that would otherwise have been lost. No-
thing that could be done in the circumstances
was left undone. Possibly in some future age
the meteorologists will be able to predict
more adequately than they can at present the
nature of imminent storms, and residents in
districts like that which has been ravaged
by wind and water will be able to avert such
heartrending tragedies as occurred last week.
At any rate, all good Australians will rally
to the aid of the folk at Ingham and Cairns
and the vicinity who have sustained losses
heavier than they can carry without assist-
ance. It is such evidences of sympathy and
friendship between the people of the States
that, like the heroism and altruism that
accompany every great Australian disaster,
refute the cynics who say that civilisation is
a failure and that mankind is going to the
dogs.
The dice are just as heavily loaded against
the settler in the Vic. bush-fire area this year
as they were at the same time last year.
The Forests Commission still lacks power to
carry out measures which it knows to be
necessary; and the anniversary of the dis-
astrous affair of February, 1926, whicli
wiped out whole townships and even families,
found it touring country districts delivering
warning orations and encouraging the local
inhabitants to form bush-fire brigades. The
bush-fire brigade is a useful body, but it has
a habit of being on the spot whether it has
been organised before or not. In a recent
outbreak it was available 200 strong within
a few minutes of the start of the proceed-
ings. What the situation needs is something
on the line of the Westralian system, with
central control, chains of lookouts, wire-
lessly connected, and possibly aeroplanes in
certain suitable localities. Then something
might be done by the Government to enable
the Commission to get proper control of the
State forests, where careless people drop
lighted cigarettes and let burning-off blazes
get away from them. Also, regulations about
fire-breaks around the wooden townships
huddling in the narrow, bush-choked gullies
would assist to save lives and property.
Meantime there have been more bush-fires,
more loss of life, and more destruction of
homes, stock, grass, hay, standing timber
and fencing.
♦
Though Tasmania is generally too green to
burn, the extra bit of devil the sun has been
putting into his work, together with the
steady persistence of a northerly breeze that
smelt like Booligal in the droving days, man-
aged to raise considerable fires in the graz-
ing areas of the island. The smoke-screen
was blown through Hobart and well down
the Derwent estuary before the laggard sea-
breeze met and blew it back again. About
noon the heat was so unusual that the foli-
age of runner-beans, parsnips and the like
in Hobart suburban plots turned tinder-grey
in a single hour, and the machine-gun crack-
ling of the cones bursting in the big pine-
trees kept the scared starling flocks con-
stantly on the wing until many fell exhausted
to earth. Some perished from sunstroke or
cats, but most of them sat dejectedly on the
hot asphalt of the roadway and gasped earn-
est prayers until tlie sea-breeze arrived, late
in the afternoon. Then they fluttered into
the lower branches of their ancestral conifers,
and in less than five minutes were swearing
as usual.
“Der Jong” : Merely on the evidence of his
own par. (B. 10/2/’2iV, my knowledge or
native history is quite equal to that
of “N.M.P.” He says that the fear of a com-
bination of Briton, Boer and Basuto against
him stayed Tciiaka’s hand. The Zulu
Napoleon died in 1828, and at that time
it is doubtful if there were 50 white men in
Natal, while the Basutos, as an organised
tribe, did not exist. It was Mosesh who, in
1831, built up the scattered fragments which
Moselikatze’s raids had made of the Basu-
toland tribes, and bound them into a whole.
It was not a small Zulu impi that was
absorbed in northern Basutoland, either, but
an army. The impression left by the assimi-
lated invaders exists to this day; it may
be seen in the strongly Zulu type of the
natives and the characteristic Zulu bead-
work, which the women do quite differently
from the Basuto stuff further down the Cale-
don. In referring to Zulu honesty, I can only
say that I have had some hundreds of Zulus
under me in positions which gave them
plenty of chances for peculation, and found
that they invariably lived up to the char-
acter given them by the average Afrikander
of my day. Finally, if Cetewayo’s impis
didn’t cross Rorice’s Drift, dozens of his raid-
ing parties burnt and slew and worse in
Natal before the crash at Isandlwana, . as
more than one border graveyard can testify.
“The Traveller” : After about three weeks
of desultory work, in which time one ship
was loaded, wheat trains from the Wim-
mera (Vic.) have ceased running
to Portland. It takes about four
trains of the dimensions run on
the Balmoral-Hamilton section of
the line to equal one of the 1100-
ton Maroona-Geelong strings of
wheat. Naturally, a strictly-busi-
ness department prefers the line
where it can rely on heavier loads,
and draw more freight money by
FAR WORSE.
NEWHUSBAND: “ I’m happy and all that, of course, old chap; still, Ido wish my wife
wouldn’t he always talking about her last husband.”
OLD BIRD: “Forget it, old man — mine’s always talking about her next.”
carrying them a longer distance. Henqe the
railway managers are not impressed with
schemes to regrade and relay tlie direct
Horsham-Portland line to carry reasonably
long trains over a shorter distance. And
the “pull” exercised by Geelong or Mel-
bourne on the Mallee or the northern Vic.
wheat districts is stronger than tlie natu-
ral western seaport can exert. The reason
given for the stoppage of shipping of wheat
at Portland is that there will be no boats
available for some weeks; indeed, it is
regarded as unlikely that there will he any
further shipping available this season. Appa-
rently somebody has spoken.
♦
“j-OLA”: “Morobe” (B. 25/11/’26) went a
bit off the track in two places; first, in
ascribing the Nakanai murders in New Guinea
to Brown Brother’s waning respect for the
European population, and secondly in say-
ing that “before tlie advent, of civil admin-
istration a white man’s life and property
were comparatively safe, even in uncon-
trolled districts.” Travel is always risky
in areas as little under control as Nakanai
was, and a man needs to keep his weather
eye open and his firearms handy. For fail-
ing to observe this elementary precaution the
unfortunate prospectors mentioned lost their
lives, whereas Thurston saved his a few days
before by shooting his way through the same
gang after they had speared him in the
thigh and arm. Travel in new or partially-
controlled country in Papua or New Guinea
has always been dangerous, and always will
be. And even though there rises occasionally
a .species of idiot who asserts that it is
quite safe to traverse the country with a
walking-stick, intending travellers will do
well to take the history of New Guinea
disasters to heart and use every possible
precaution. “Morobe” can take it from an
old hand that life and property out back are
saier since civil administration came in than
they were in either German or military times.
And Brown Brother’s respect for officials
is greater also.
*
“Dr. Nil” : Touching “The Great God
Bonus” (B. 27/l/’27). My late brother
practised in a market-gardening district,
about 10 miles out of Adelaide, for 20
years. Towards the end I asked him if he
had been paid any more promptly for his
services at maternity cases as a result of
Fisher’s dole. His reply was that he had
had many more bad debts in such cases, as a
matter of fact. In pre-bonus days, he said,
mothers used to “put by” the doctor’s fee (it
ranged from two guineas upwards), and
pay during the week after the confinement, as
a rule. When they counted upon the bonus
they no longer saved up. In numerous
instances, both husband and wife claimed
the money, and neither paid the doctor, each
throwing that responsibility upon the other.
This corresponded with my own experience
during an equally long period of practice.
As for people in easy circumstances applying
for the dole, I have acted as tocum tenens for
at least 25 medical men in practices amongst
the fairly well-to-do of both city and coun-
try. and I can remember only one occasion
upon which the parents failed to secure
from me the pink certificate to enable them
to collect £5 from the Government. One
of my patients was candid enough to tell
me that the reason I was still unpaid at
tlie end of three years was that there had
been a death in the family, and that she
had used the bonus to buy a suit of mourning.
The success of the wireless telephone across
the Atlantic raises the question whether.it
would not pay to link up Maoriland and the
Speck with Australia. The power required
to push a voice across the Tasman or Bass
Strait would be a fraction of that used be-
tween London and New York, and, there
being small difference in time between the
points, the most favorable period of the day
for communication would be the same, in
each country. There would be no technical
difficulty in the way of linking up all exist-
ing telephone subscribers in the capital cities
to the new service. A ’phone-owner in
Sydney would simply ring Central and ask
for a number in, say, Wellington ; the opera-
tor would put him on to the radio circuit;
and the station in Wellington would be con-
nected to the Central switchboard in that
city. He would be then put on to the wrong
number, as usual. Whether there are enough
mainland people anxious to commune direct
with people in Tas. or the Shivery Isles is
another question. In any case, they would
have to get used to the idea of their con-
fidences being overheard by any owner of
a good private set who cared to listen-in.
“Recurrent Factor” : Isn’t “Murkah” him-
self talking through his solar topee when he
says (B. 27/17!’27) that the 8.-P. steamer
Matunga was ,waylaid by the German raider
Wolf through the latter tapping a cable 1 '
Official reports, including that of the Wolf’s
commander, say that the stick-up was made
possible by tlie raider’s interception of a wire-
less message to Rabaul as the Matunga was
leaving Kulamadau —a nasty' knock for the
superiority which “Murkah” claims for the
radio oyer the cable. True, the Germans fell
back on tlieir radio-station at Nauen. But
this was not because they despised the cable,
but because they had to —their own cables
were cut, and the Swedish lines they were
allowed to use by that accommodating neu-
tral were regularly “milked” by the Allies.
“Murkah” doesn’t even know the beginnings
of cryptography when he says that codes can-
not be deciphered. In all war codes the
“index numbers” or “group letters,” which
form the key of the code, have to be changed
at frequent intervals to keep the opposition
code experts on the hop. The German codes
were deciphered again and again. The Falk-
land Island rendezvous with Von Spee was
due to the deciphering of a code radio to his
supply, ships to meet him there. No code
yet invented has proved indecipherable in the
long run. Every cipher, of whatever kind,
must be built up on a base. It is the expert’s
job to discover that. This he does by watch-
ing for, and hunting down, what is called,
among other names, the “recurrent factor”—
the letter, number, group, word or phrase
which by its inevitable recurrence gives the
clue to its equivalent in the language that
has been coded. “Jargon codes” in common
commercial use are impossible in military or
secret-service work. For these, both trans-
mitter and receiver must have a copy of the
code, and that invites disaster. Naval code-
books of this description are the exception.
Bound in lead sheets, they go down with
the ship, or overboard before she is captured.
“Murkah” : A handicap from which Aus-
tralian Government departments suffer is
the almost absolute lack
of suggestions for im-
provement thereof by
employees. That simpler
methods and other ideas
for betterment occur to
the minds of the more in-
telligent section cannot
be doubted, yet it is sel-
dom that anything comes
of them. Most depart-
ments display in the
workshops and offices
printed notices offering
rewards for practical sug-
gestions, but the heads do
not really want them. A
one-time member of
N.S.W. telegraph engineer-
ing staff was forced our
because he put forward
an idea for producing,
with an instrument that
could be carried in a small
handbag, a result that
previously had necessi-
tated a lorry-load of
apparatus. Thereafter
promotion passed him by. Eventually
Private Enterprise snapped him up—ami
doubled his salary. Even if a suggestion
is accepted, the reward is miserly. Tli n
designer of Form 100, a famous postal form
since adopted in Britain and America, received
£5. That form is a masterpiece which saves
the Commonwealth thousands per annum.
Its author retired in disgust and is now
doing well “outside.” Seniority (i.e., deau
weight of years) is the chief recommenda-
tion for promotion. Is it to be' wondered at
that our State inutilities are mere sinks
for the public’s coin—and the publics
blanky ?
* ——
“The Traveller” : A deputation of Vic. union-
ists recently complained to Assistant Kail-
ways Minister Mackrell that 90 per cent,
of Victoria’s railway material is ordered u
America. The figure may be exaggerate; •
but it is unquestionably high—too nign.
Whenever an order for material from U.o-A
is queried, the defence is that it was new
urgently, or that it was for a pattern, n
railway developments are not so sudden tm
requirements cannot be foreseen by reason
ably intelligent officers. Another excua
given for sending so frequently for ip K '
notions is that it does not pay to ins
machinery for the limited requirements
certain lines. { If so, it is a strong argument
in favor of federalising the railways a
so making the demand big enough "■;
with American material and Amen,
methods of working, it will not be surpnsi -
■if the Vic. railwaymen develop a nasai
accent. _____
[For any Plain English paragraphs which WU
a signature under the law, S. H. Prior, J. • e
and James Edmond, of 214 George-street, yn-
are responsible.]


AUSTRALIA
Offers you endless opportunities, for there is health, wealth and content to be
won in this great land.
But here, as elsewhere, success and fortune mainly follow wise planning and
thrifty practice.
Let Australia’s own Bank help you with both. Its officers are ready at all
times to extend to you any assistance within their power, and the bank’s efficient
service will be available to you in whatever district you make your home.
There is a Commonwealth Savings Bank Agency in every Post Office and full
branches in the principal towns.
Coimonwealtb JBank of Australia
(Guaranteed by the Commonwealth Government.)
DON’T EXPERIMENT WITH BELTS
Be guided by tests —by results in ordinary, everyday work
$ 17*w.\tv n ir\
■
/-
s_„
Mangrovite” Leather
or
Raw-Hide Belting
is made from the finest selected
Australian oxhides, and our own
exhaustive tests reveal no belting
which gives such satisfactory results.
Users find that “Mangrovite” freely
and evenly transmits every atom of
available power with the least exer-
tion, and gives a minimum of trouble
over many years of hard, constant
work.
MANGROVITE BELTING, LTD.,
CHARLES LUDOWICI. Managing Directoi
49 YORK STREET (WYNYARD SQUARE>, SYDNEY.
POLITICAL
POINTS
llie demands of the Newcastle coal-
strikors are various, but the most prominent
are a minimum wage of 255. per day, and
the actual wage, whatever it is, to be uni-
form throughout the industry. In theory,
which is a beautiful thing, wages should be
equal in all industries where the amount of
skill required and the risks are approximately
level, and it is a pity that the miners didn’t
ask for an all-round 255. per day in order
to bring up the question. But equality
isn’t easy to arrive at even in one case. In
1925 coal from the Newcastle field fetched
an average of 17s. 7d. per ton at the pit
mouth; southern N.S.W. coal brought
15s. lid.; western coal sold at 11s. Id. The
average price was double that of 1916, but
all attempts to make it a uniform price
failed. So the thre.e fields can’t pay the
same wage unless it is a moderate one,
even if abstract justice shouts till it is
hoarse.
When the N.S.W. Treasurer got down to
details it transpired that he received
£4,663,850 for the £5,000,000 worth of bonds
which he planted in New York, so the loss
or discount was £336,150. The first offer
was £4.500,000, but a better bid was secured.
The price, as asserted, was better than that
offering in London, for London, apparently,
offered no price at all. An unpleasant possi-
bility is that the Yanks may start peddling
the bonds in England when there is a better
market, which won’t improve the prospects
for the Ma State’s next operation.
It is in the air that three Queensland
railways may close up—Cooktown to Laura,
Normanton to Croydon, and Almaden to
Forsayth. Each of the first two constitutes
an isolated “system” in itself, the first being
68 miles long and the second 96 miles. The
Almaden-Forsaytli line measures 142 miles,
and is part of the tangle of lines, 511 miles
in all, which branch out from Cairns. It lost
£2562 in 1917-18 and £15,702 in 1920-21,
while last year’s loss is mentioned as £40,000.
Now the asset has been badly damaged by
floods, and the spectacle of the. estimated
repair bill has raised the question whether
continuation of the struggle is worth while.
The N.S.W. Lang Government has changed
its mind again about the child-endowment
scheme which it alters every few days.
Instead of the “6 per cent, on the wages bill”
proposed by the good Piddington and accepted
without inquiry, the levy is to be 64 p.c.—64
p.c. on £109,000,000 according to Mr. Badly.
The extra 4 p.c. will be an additional incen-
tive to employers to shorten hands and reduce
wages that are above the legal minimum.
Not 30 of the 90 Assemblymen have any
faith in Badly’s crazy scheme, and at least
40 p.c. of Labor voters are hoping that the
Leg. Council will heave it out.
Under a law passed in 1917, when cold-
tea sentiment was strong everywhere, the
S. Ans. Assembly electorates were consti-
tuted local-option districts, and it was pro-
vided that a petition signed by 590 electors
(or one-tenth of the total number) might
secure a local-option poll in any district or
subdivision, as proclaimed. The cold-tea
brotherhood has been busy of late months,
and there are to be numerous local-option
polls on general-election day, March 26. A
State which depends so much on its splendid
wine industry can’t afford the luxury of
local-option polls every three years. But
politicians of both parties would rather im-
peril the industry than imperil their own
seats by telling the honest truth.
Vic.’s 2Sth Legislative Assembly, elected
on June 26, 1924, is to be dissolved on
March 5, and the new House will be picked
on April 9. Writs are to be issued on March
12, and nominations lodged by noon on
March 21. The Cocky section of the Allan-
cocks was none too keen on an April poll,
but the expedition used in preparing rolls
and other circumstances, including Nation-
alist pressure, were too much for them.
Members’ pay will go on until March 4.
This was thoughtfully arranged in a little
Act run through before last session closed.
In spite of the ’orrible threats of the
Trades and Labor Councils, the Industrial
Missioners to America, with one exception,
got away without trouble last week. The
exception was Grayndler, of the A.W.U., who
will follow by a later boat. Efforts on this
side to “crab” the delegation with American
Labor promise to be labor in vain. The
Garden type of industrial agitator has long-
been wiped off the map of American unionism.
THE VAMP.
“Speaking in Melbourne about the drift from the country to the city, Vic. Premier Allan told his
hearers that they were making Melbourne too attractive.”
There were great times and wonderful
doings in Queensland during his term of
office, according to Theodore, the ex-Premier,
who has moved to Sydney in search of the
safe Federal seat which his own State
wouldn’t supply. Between the time he and
his Labor colleagues took office and that
of his retirement from the Premiership
Queensland Savings Bank deposits grew
from £10.000,000 to £21,400,000, which was
a magnificent and indisputable proof, etc.,
etc., and all that kind of thing. In reality,
the Queensland Savings Bank deposits were
within a brick-throw of £12.000,000 when
Rvan and Theodore took office, and they
were only a shade over £20,000,000 when
Theodore quitted office. It was a matter
of using the wrong date at each end. As
a side issue, Queensland had no Savings
Bank at all when Theodore left. It had
sold its institution on the best terms obtain-
able to the Commonwealth. Queensland
had three joint-stock banks when the Theo-
dore people arrived, but it has only one now,
the other two having sold out to a Victorian
institution. This shifted them to some extent
out ot the Queensland Labor jurisdiction.
The brakes on the Point Ormond (Mel-
bourne) one-man tramcars came out of the
expert inquiry into their alleged inefficiency
without a scratch. The engineer brought
from Sydney stated that they were, in his
opinion, safer than those on the one-man
cars already operating on the Hawthorn
line. So the union bosses will have to find
other reasons for the ban they have put upon
the Point Ormond vehicles than their anxiety
for the public safety.
A few years ago the Maoriland “Year
Book” contained a startingly frank balance-
sheet of national affairs. Not only exports
and imports of the sort that get into the
blue books, but “invisible” items, like tour-
ists’ expenditure, foreign loans, shipping
charges, interest on dividends accrued abroad
and Government expenditure in foreign coun-
tries, were included. It wasn’t a heavy
borrowing year by any means, but one glance
at the table was enough for the party in
charge. Nowadays, the “Year Book”
demurely announces: “Sufficient data do not
exist to enable a reliable official computation
to be made in respect of Maoriland’s balance
of trade and international payments.”
The Federal main roads grant did Political
Labor great service in Westralia before the
State rolls closed. Spare men were hurried
into electorates, where a few spare votes may
be of inestimable value. If their tools weren’t
ready tools could be sent after them, and if
the main road was hard to find it could be
looked for. The essential was to get the
pilgrims enrolled, so that they could enter
on their month’s tent residence and qualify.
Bygone-Premier Jimmy Mitchell, who was as
great in the way of losing opportunities as
Fuller in N.S.W., left the electorates, as
regards both Houses, in worse need of redis-
tribution than those of any other State and
possibly worse than at any time in any other
State’s history. There were some where the
registration of a dog would almost suffice to
turn the voting scale. It would be a blessed
event if some Jimmy or George, with a capa-
city for reform, would put both Houses on
the same franchise, but one of them repre-
senting the entire State as one constituency,
as with the Senate. Then one House at least
would be rabbit-proof and fortified against
roll-stuffing and gerrymandering.
The year before the noisy Edward Gran-
ville Blunderbore and his friends took office
the Queensland railways yielded £1,325,468
surplus over working expenses, and paid
rather more than full interest on their cost.
Six years later, when Blunderbore was Pre-
mier, they yielded £29,699 less than nothing.
There is little good in a man like that mak-
ing large promises. He lacks the money to
redeem them with. Blunderbore’s biography
in “Who’s Who” says that he quitted tin*
Queensland Premiership “to enter the Federal
Parliament.” It doesn’t mention that the
door slammed.
Lang can blame young Mr. Mclvell for
the loss of the measure to permit publicans
to serve liquor with meals up to 9 p.m.
The Leg. Council bumped out the bill by
25 votes to 22, several Labor members voting
against the Government; the unfair dis-
crimination which McKell was weakly ready
to authorise against vendors of his own
country’s wines upset the publicans’ apple-
cart. So the six-o’clock-closing law will
continue to be broken when “distinguished
visitors” are being banqueted, or for any
other reason.
In the course of seven months the Minis-
try at Sydney raised nearly a quarter-million
more revenue than in the corresponding term
last year, and had nearly £40,000 more short-
age because new expenditure beat new
revenue in a canter. Queensland in the same
period had an improvement of nearly
£450,000 in its income, but, thanks to the
eternal demand for “concessions,” the gain
was more than eaten up. So two more
robust deficits are preparing. In Sydney
City Council the Labor majority took over
a surplus of £93,406 two years ago, and it
is expected that when the figures ooze out
the deficit will be £200,000 or so. There
was once a Labor balance-sheet that
balanced, but that was through the mistake
of adding the date at the top of the column
in with the pounds.
With 50,000 Soviet troops on the Itusso-
Chow border and trainloads of munitions on
the way, the poor old peace threatens to
break automatically if only through some-
body’s gun going off by accident. The border
is no great distance officially from Pekin,
since the Soviet people screwed an acknow-
ledgment of their “protectorate” over Mon-
golia out of the helpless Chinese Government
in 1924, when something like li million
square miles of poor country nominally
changed hands. The Bolshevik disturbers had
really taken the place some time before, and
put troops in the capital, and chased the
Ivhan, China’s vassal, off his throne; but
it was only after the treaty that up-to-date
works of reference shifted Mongolia out of
the chapter on China and put it under
Russia.
A scrap of news which sounded familiar
has drifted in from the N.T. The Oenpelli
C. of E. mission in Arnheim Land, which is
not so very far from Darwin, is reported to
have been short of letters and groceries for
18 months, the result being that it has had to
advise the 100 aboriginals under its care to
resume the wild life and look for^edible
goanna. Thanks
to the Navigation
Act or something
the only vessel
that can be looked
to for supplies on
the long stretch
of coast is an ark
which the Govern-
ment subsidises to
the extent of
£ll,OOO a year.
When the drogher
tries to go any-
where there is
“trouble with the
crew,” and the
flabby Bruce-Page
Government i s
incompetent either
to repeal or
amend the Act or
to devise some or-
dinance which will
deal with a muti-
nous crew. In this
situation it is
announced that
“the Government
has now given
permission to the
Northern Austra-
lian Commission
to arrange for a
satisfactory ser-
vice.” That tends
to dissipate the
idea that the ex-
pensive Commis-
sion is an inde-
pendent institu-
tion ruling with
its own high hand.
And there is an
element of the grotesque in giving it permis-
sion to end the chronic hold-up in northern
waters when the Government can’t guarantee
the regular running of a boat from its own
doorstep across to Tasmania.
The Brisbane building strike has dis-
appointing features. The Queensland build-
ing tradesman is the best-paid in Australia
(2s. 7Jd. per hour), and in addition he is
paid for wet days when work is suspended.
He left off work, or some of him did, with a
peremptory demand for 40 hours instead of
44. Then it rained a good deal, for Brisbane
averages twice as many wet days in January
and February as in August, and certain
employers saved a fair amount of money.
Trade is only moderate in any case, and a
partial stoppage is of no vast importance.
One of the Sydney morning papers has
been giving bits of Minister Badly’s oratory
verbatim, a thing which the polite Hansard
never does, and Badly is a mine of rich
incoherence when properly explored. One
specimen was something about education: —
In so far as I have before, apart from the inspectors
of our schools, which the Government in so far as
regards its duty, in connection with which it has
the voice of the people, the Government will not
permit.
That kind of vocabulary is a gift. It can’t
be acquired.
[For any Political paragraphs which require a
signature under the law, S. H. Prior, J. E. Webb
and James Edmond, of 214 George-street, Sydney,
are responsible.]
THE MODERN TOUCH.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“The delegates, after leaving caucus, said they had
been received very sympathetically, and that, judging
from the demeanor of the majority of the Parlia-
mentary' party, the unions’ demands would be con-
ceded.”—Political item.
“Yairs,” said the delegate, and blew his nose—
A self-assertive snort it was and raucous.
He seemed not half as awed as you’d suppose
At having mixed at closest range with caucus.
“We put th’ hard word fairly on th’ cows,
An’ no more hints is likely to be needed,
For, judgin’ by the way they all kow-tows,
Our just demands is sure to be conceded.
“What use is M’s.L.A. if not to do
Th’ instant biddin’ of th’ men who made ’em
An’ can unmake ’em, quick an’ lively, too,
An’ back to toil in half a mo. degrade ’em?
Their souls is not their own ; to us in pawn
Th’ blankers is irrevocably deeded,
An’ when on us for favor they must fawn,
Our just demands is sure to be conceded.
“An’ what about th’ State? 0 Lor’, har, har!
Don’t make me laugh; it’s bad for me digestion;
Th’ times has travelled very fast and far
Since its convenience cames into th’ question.
Th’ game is now for keeps; we’re out to get
All that we can, by conscience unimpeded,
An’ when we put th’ nips in—why, you bet
Our just demands is sure to be conceded.
“No, Comrade; while th’ goin’s good, hop in,
An’ let that be your ever constant motto.
Th’ Oov'ment, now it’s finishin’ its spin,
Is showin’ every sign of gettin’ blotto.
See that, before this happens, you’re 0.K.,
Then, ere your benefactors has receded
Into th’ black-out, y'ou can proudly say
Your just demands has mostly been conceded.”
N.S.W.
J. B. HIGGINSON.


Metrovick” Products Include
The Mark of
Efficiency
TURBO-ALTERNATORS
ROTARY CONVERTERS
AUTOMATIC SUB-STATIONS
SUPERVISORY CONTROL
TRACTION APPARATUS
GENERATORS, A.C. AND D.C.
INDUSTRIAL MOTORS
CONTROL GEAR
TRANSFORMERS
SWITCHGEAR, A.C. AND D.C.
INSTRUMENTS
PERMIT US TO QUOTE FOR YOUR REQUIREMENTS.
MELBOURNE.
SYDNEY,
ADELAIDE,
MSSSN
eL£CTRICAI>^- - LTD
BRISBANE
AND
WELLINGTON, N.Z.
NOBEL-CLASCOW EXPLOSIVES.
The Standard of Quality throughout the Empire.
Monobel
Samsonite
Gelatine Dynamite
Gelignite
Blasting Gelatine
Dynamite
Safety Fuse
Detonators
Cartridges
•a n sa a
ot
91UM
MARTIN DITCHER’S TRIUMPH.
Mr. H. L. Tooth, Murami Irrigation Settlement, on
the Murrumbidgee, writes: —
“The ten acres of rice field yielded me 1444
bushels. I consider the use of the Martin Ditcher
reduced the cost of ditching and check bank work
by 50 per cent.”
The photograph shows a section of Mr. Tooth s
fine field which was recently described in the Agri-
cultural Gazette. Many other rice farmers are
now using the Martin Ditcher.
CHAEEIS HOUSE,
MARTIN PEACE, SYDNEY.
Campbell’s Buildings. 'Creek Street, Brisbane.
519 Little Collins Street, Melbourne.
T. T. Buildings, Eight Square, Adelaide.
Queen Street, Perth. S.B.
The WILD CAT
COLUMN
The Western Australian Insurance
Co., Ltd.: —
Reserves
(including
Reserves for
Towards Unexpired
June, Surplus.* Dividends. Reserves. Risks).
1913.. £1,233 5 p.c. =£soo £733 £473
1914.. 215 Nil 215 688
1915.. 20,512 6 p.c. = 3,600 16,912 17,000
1916.. 26,963 6„„ 3,600 23,303 40,963
1917. .183,332 7„„ 4,200 179,132 220,095
1918. .377,787 10 „„ 10,000 367,787 587,882
1919. 15 „ ~15,000 127,781 715,003
Transferred to Life Dept., £20,000. . 695,663
1920.. 56,101 lOp.c. =lO.OOO 46,101 741,764
Securities written down, £43,637.. 698,127
Loss.
1921.. 58.406 Nil 639,721
Taxation, £143,894 . . . . 495,827
Written off, £11,559 .. .. 484,268
1922. .111.930 Nil 372,338
Written off, £33,341 . . . . 338,997
1923.. 42.778 Nil 296.219
Written off, £58,543 .. .. 237,676
Over-provision for taxation, £57,430 295,106
1924.. 21,164 Nil —• ) 019
Transferred to Accident Fund, £1297 ) ’
Written off, £11,421 .. .. 262,521
From Life Fund, £96 . . . . 262,617
1925.. 134 5 p.c. = 5,000 257,483
Surplus.
1926.. 46,145 5 p.c.= 5,000 41,145 298,628
*Apart from Life Department.
It lias taken a long time to pull up, and
the process has been expensive. The table
gives the co.’s history. To pay a div. of
5 p.c. in its first year was an achievement.
Then the war brought opportunities which
Samuel Copley, serenely confident that the
British Navy would do what it did, seized
with both hands. The co. spread like a fire
in dry grass, and although much of what
seemed like profit in those days later ended
in smoke, the management was never exces-
sively liberal in its distributions. Thus
when the losses of other terms began to
fall into the office, there were ample
reserves on which the co. could draw. Last
year (although accounts are to J..ne 1, next
balancing date is not far away when the
sheet is made available) total premium
income, excluding Life, was £215,812; in
1917 it was £728,000, and in 1918 over
£1,100,000 was received. In the latter year
the “surplus” was £377,787. From 1921, when
the flotsam and jetsam of the post-war boom
began to litter the doorsteps of even old-
established offices, to 1925 the co. showed
losses totalling £234,412. With demands
from the taxation departments and the
necessity of writing down securities, etc.,
added to losses, reserves were eaten into for
almost a half-million. By the time the 1925
accounts were ready, the board could see
sufficient promise in the business already
written to hand out 5 p.c., and shareholders
received a repeat for last term. Such
modesty will be well repaid once the office
settles down to the steady duplication of the
solid business that won the surplus of
£46,145 to June 30. Not that the end has
been seen of the old troubles: of last year’s
marine losses and expenses, £30.131 belonged
to the past. Accumulated funds could bear
the burden easily; of total reserves of
£298,628, £91,685 was in the marine fund
(equal to 258 p.c. of net premium income) ;
£•24,761 in the Fire (67 p.c. of premium
income), and £50,414 in Accident (40 p.c.).
The underwriting experience is shown in
these figures:—
Net Ex- Loss Expense
Premiums, Losses, penses. Rate. Rate.
1913.. £1,700 £22 £874 1.2 p.c. 48.8 p.c.
1915.. 52,061 17,424 16,074 33.4 „ 30.8 „
1916.. 180,716 116,763 40,118 64.6 „ 22.2 „
1917.. 727,868 522,217 27,095 71.7 „ 3.7 „
1918.. 1,142,001 739,044 48,132 64.7 „ 4.2 „
1919.. 629,044 445,011 68,689 70.7 „ 10.9 „
1920.. 568,347 438,830 97,342 77.2 „ 17.1 ~
1921.. 480,434 451.634 116,972 94.0 „ 24.4 „
1922.. 229,537 259,678 95,783 113.2 „ 41.7 „
1923.. 212,701 181,079 84,065 85.1 „ 39.5 „
1924.. 162,577 136,485 64,772 83.9 „ 39.8 „
1925.. 178.664 122,073 72,103 68.3 „ 40.3 „
1926.. 215,812 115,091 78,653 53.3 „ 36.4 „
And here arc the net premium income totals
in detail: —
Fire. Marine. Accident.
1920 .. £156,657 £381,448 £30,241
1921 .. 149,654 292,834 37,945
1922 . . 61,928 134,434 33,175
1923 . . 96,439 79,404 36,858
1924 . . 46,718 71,554 44,305
1925 . . 36,534 81,914 60,216
1926 . . 36,902 52,875 126,035
In the 1925 term several unprofitable over-
seas fire agencies were closed down, and
although premium income in that depart-
ment was reduced losses were certainly
lighter. Last year’s combined loss rate was
good considering the generally unfav-
orable experience for the period covered, and
the cut in exes, was worth while. Costs
need to be reduced still further in the Fire
branch.
Although £BO,OOO has been set aside for
taxation, the whole of the amount will not
be called for; “the matter is still under
discussion.” Funds are in the following
form :
1920. 1922. 1925. 1926.
Public securi-
ties . . £144,211 £202,899 £159,624 £160,115
Mortgages, de-
bentures, etc. 350,600 368,299 234,748 264,958
Properties .. 70,681 69,174
Book debts, etc. 230,564 200,814 57,785 59,270
Cash, etc. . . 295,808 20,821 54,589 65,662
Odds and ends 5,753 , 6,267 6,636 7,298
Total assets £1,026,936 £799.100 £584,062 £626,477
Liabilities* . . 141,715 277,110 187,581 170,814
£885,221 £521,990 £396,481 £475,663
•Including provision for taxation (1922, £135,118 ;
1925 and 1926, £80,000).
There is £93,000 in mortgages and £126,856
in “shares in other cos.” The latter entry
is unsatisfactory; it should be itemised.
The Life department is progressing healthj
ily. New premiums amounted to £10,475
last year compared with £7294 in 1925 and
£5764 in 1924. Renewals were £18,866 com-
pared with £7354 and £4045. The fund
was increased £18,035 to £52,035. Claims
for the 12 months were very light, and the
expense rate was reduced by a gratifying
percentage. The management appears to
be selecting business which is sticking.
The outlook for the co. is brightened by
last year’s results. Costs need to be still
further reduced. The management has
shown that it can handle its problems and
control expenditure, and it has two good
things to assist: solid reserves and a wide
field, of which it should now know the rich
spots.
* * * *
The Brisbane Permanent Building
and Banking Co. :
Dividends and To Re-
Aug., Profits. Dividend Tax. serves. Reserves.
1916.. £10,624 6 p.c. = £5,308 £5316 £31,216
Transferred to capital, £10,454 .. 20,762
1917.. 9,553 6 p.c. = 5,902 3651 24,413
1918.. 10,658 6 „ „ 5,902 4756 29,169
1919.. 11,978 6 „ „ 5,902 6076 35,245
Transferred to capital, £13,939 .. 21,306
1920.. 11,974 7 p.c. = 8,004 3970 25,276
Written off, £1306 23,970
Citv & Suburban Co.’s reserves, £22,090 46,060
1921.. 16.811 8 p.c. = 12,769 4042 50,102
1922.. 22,913 8 „ „ 16,956 5957 56,059
Share premium, £1063 .. .. 57,152
1923.. 23,068 8 p.c. = 17,231 5837 62.989
1924.. 31,455 10 „ „ 25,483 5972 68,961
1925.. 38,342 9 „ „ 25,607 12,735 81,696
1926.. 36.230 9 „ „ 27,000 9230 90.926
Actually the term was richer than the figures
suggest, and, incidentally, some of the earlier
years were not so good. The hungry taxation
hounds of Queensland got on the scent, and
the co. had to pay £7OlB for the 1925 term.
Amended assessments back to 1914 cost
£4002. Revenue in the past 12 months was
£86,010 compared with £75,561 in its pre-
decessor, and what would have been easily
a record profit was spoiled by the extra pay-
ments to the Treasury. With these items out
of the way and Brisbane still feeling
prosperous, the current year should have a
happy ending. Generally speaking, how-
ever, suburban building-finance cos. should
unleash the office pessimist as balancing date
approaches, particularly in Queensland ; for
in this business the greater the inflation the
more reeky the coast when low-tide comes.
Despite the optimists, tight times will
surely arrive. How is the co. positioned to
meet them? Its own funds at the close of
the accounts amounted to £390,926 (there
has been a new share issue of £50,000 since),
consisting of capital £300,000, reserve
£90,000, undistributed p. and 1. balance £926.
It was working on borrowed money amount-
ing to more than twice as much —£863,864 —
and £5840 was owing to sundry creditors. A
total of £886,403 had been advanced, £138,482
was in Government securities, £241,084 in
cash, while premises were in at £15,000, with
a few pounds owing by sundry debtors.
Allowing cover for sundry creditors, deposi-
tors could see advances and premises with a
book value of £901,403 to represent the
£490,158 not covered by the liquids. Which
means that total advances could suffer an
average depreciation of 45 p.c. before the
security for deposits would be in the clanger
zone. Capital has almost trebled since 1920
and the recent issue will make an increase of
almost a quarter-million in seven years. Divs.
have been moved up steadily from 2 p.c. in
1907, but reserves have by no means been
neglected. Only 75 p.c. of last year’s net
profit was distributed, and it is not likely
that the wise policy will be altered; strong
support to capital is highly desirable. A
proportion of the deposits is at call. Bris-
bane Permanent allows interest on credit
balances of current accounts; hence the big
amount held liquid. Such money is, of
course, a decidedly uncertain quantity in time
of stress. While the volume of current
accounts is not stated it may he assumed that
the management is not unmindful of the
necessities of the position. Both the paids
and the contribs. carry a premium of 6s. 3d.
on the market. This is almost exactly the
value of the reserves; in other words visible
net assets arc worth within a few farthings
of 265. 3d. per share.
* -*■ * #
Metropoi.itan Gas Co. ( Melbourne) :
Works Written
Divi- Charged Off
deeds, to Re- Stocks, Re-
Profits. (13- p.c.) venue. etc. serves.
£ £ £ £ £
Dec., ’17.. 50;026 62,219 19,404 7,301 668,867
June, ’IS.. 98,169 62,219 21.257 9,268 674,262
Dec., ’lB.. 107,029 62,219 31,450 12,754 674,868
Premiums on new shares, £25,880 .. 700,74 S
June, ’19.. 88,659 65,000 14,099 8,871 701,437
Dec., ’19.. 49,143 65,000 15,853 3,570 662,827
June, ’20.. 63,760 65,000 22.084 798 638,705
Dec., ’20.. 39.363 65,000 Nil Nil 613,068
June, ’21.. 63,495 65.000 Nil Nil 611,5C3
Dec., ’21.. 109,160 65,000 21,276 Nil 634,447
June, ’22.. 138,202 65,000 49,293 Nil 658,356
Dec., ’22.. 139,520 65,000 28,800 Nil 704,076
Refund of income tax .. £23,545 727,621
June, '23.. 58,679 65,000 29,070 8264 683,966
Dec., ’23. . 103,000 65,000 13,789 4262 1 ,
Cost of Govt, inquirv, £7602 (
June, ’24.. 125,385 65,000 40,871 5,533 704,234
Premiums on shares . . £43,528 747,762
15 p.c.
Dec., ’24.. 128,677 82,197 41,743 4,378 748,121
June, ’25.. 105,182 82,500 18,028 5.270 746,905
Dee., ’25.. 131,453 82,500 50,603 4,194 741,066
June, ’26.. 123,567 82.500 39,094 3,880 739,159
Dec., ’26.. 134,804 82,500 33,500 11,364 746,599
Coal costs went up substantially last half-
year. An increase of Is. a ton was imposed
on July 5. On November 24 the crane-
age charge at Newcastle was raised 4d. a
ton, and a fortnight later another 9d. per
ton was added to the price of coal, “owing
to higher railage from the collieries to
Newcastle.” Although the aggregate increase
of 2s. Id. did not affect all the coal used
during the period the total cost to the co.
works out at £36,750 p.a., or 2s. Id. per
thousand c. ft. of gas sold. Since 1910 the
co. has seen coal prices move from 16s. 2d.
to 38s. 4d. per ton. Its dependence on N. ; S.
Wales for supplies and its helplessness in
tin face of protracted industrial disturbances
in the mining or transport industries have
been countered by the accumulation of stocks.
At December 31, coal in stock amounted to
41,874 tons; the directors aim at 100,000
tons, but the expense involved is considerable.
The record of work for thehalf-year shows that
44 miles of trunk mains. 35 miles of ordinary
mains and 71 miles of services were laid
down. The two new 3,000,000 ft. gasholders
were completed during the term, and the
bell of the North Melbourne holder entirely
renewed. In 1920 the co. had nine holders
with a cubic capacity of 13,731,000 ft.; it
no'w has 13 Holders capable of storing
23,646,000 c.ft. The fifth unit of continu-
ous carbonising plant was installed at the
West Melbourne works and labor-saving
plant was added to the bunkering and coke
plants. Manufacturing at Fitzroy was termi-
nated ; West Melbourne and South Melbourne
works now supply all requirements. The
expansion called for heavy expenditure, and
15,000 new shares (£5 each) were auctioned
in August, prices averaging £9 13s. 7d. per
share ; total £145,215. Previous movements
in capital have been as follows :
Share Total
Capital Premiums Total Pre-
Period. Received. Received. Capital. miums.
Dec., 1886 ..£50,000 £55,419 £607,710 £55,419
Dee., 1887 . . 49,500 88,669 657,210 144,05 S
Dec., 1889 .. 50,000 92,541 707,210 236,619
Dec., 1890 .. 50,000 111,123 757,210 347,752
Dec., 1891 .. 50,000 92,507 807,210 440,259
June, 1893 .. 18,650 16,571 825,860 456,830
Dec., 1894 .. 31,350 14,608 857,210 471,438
Dee., 1914 . . 50,000 47,210 907,210 518,648
Dec., 1915 . . 50,000 44,585 957,210 563,233
June, 1919 .. 42,790 25.580 1,000,000 589,113
Dec., 1924 . . 100,000 43,528 1,100,000 627,738
The heavy premiums modify the 15 p.c. divs.
From 1913 to ' 1924 shareholders received
13 p.c. p.a., and the 15 p.c., at the latest
price, will return buyers barely 7$ p.c.
An ambitious plan of construction and
development has been set out. Tenders for
extensive plant to unload the colliers have
been called for; plants for the manufacture
of neutral sulphate of ammonia are on order;
plant and appliances to manufacture the co.'s
annual output of tar into special grades, and
new supply and lesser mains into new dis-
tricts are to be placed in hand. These
efforts will call for approximately £300,000
and 25,000 shares are to be issued shortly.
In the past considerable sums have been sunk
in works, etc., and charged to revenue. Last
year’s expenditure under that head was sub-
stantial. These figures cover the past 10
years :—-
Year ended Repairs and Works, etc., Paid
Dec., Maintenance, for out of Profits.
1917 .. £154.153 £23.270
1918 .. 165,582 52,737
1919 .. 167,101 32,982
1920 . . 164,062 22,084
1921 .. 242.821 21,276
1922 . . 222,589 52.093
1923 . . 239,469 42,859
1924 . . 275.933 88,614
1925 . . 258,505 69,231
1926 .. 250,830 72.593
There is no mention of any move from the
co.’s present crowded city sites, although the
need grows with every expansion in popula-
tion. Meantime, enormous sums are being
sunk in plant and improvements which are
necessary to maintain an effective service to
consumers, although it is obvious that the
intelligent and ultimately economic pro-
cedure would be to shift the centre of
production to the 80-acre deep-water site
at the mouth of the Yarra which has been
picked as the ideal position for manu-
facture. Unfortunately, a succession of Gov-
ernments has refused to amend the Act
under which the co. works, to give that secur-
ity and protection necessary if investors are
to supply the big sum involved.
Total revenue was greater:—
1924. 1925. 1926.
Cost of coal . . . . £595,952 £599,128 £667,713
Revenue from gas . . 1,333,121 1,281,312 1,331.453
Revenue from residuals 284,970 291,485 337,852
Increased returns from residuals is a feature
which deserves recognition. The manage-
ment has declared that, given a new site
where the tar could be treated properly, it
could win a return which would permit of
reduction in the price of gas.
Balance-sheet figures compare :
1924. 1925. 1926.
Debentures .. £1,584.200 £1,584,200 £1,727,200
Creditors . . . . 250,537 422,842 396,053
Fixed assets .. 3,113,090 3,322,048 3,604,873
Stocks and stores. . 255,750 260,541 218,935
Book debts, invest-
ments and cash 406,214 383,888 303,544
Coal stocks of the proportions aimed at must
be accumulated if the management is to be
tolerably free from anxiety on that score.
For the moment no other cloud is visible.
I:i any case, something substantial would
have to burst to jeopardise the 15 p.c. divs.
• * * *
Automatic Totalisators, Ltd. (Sydney):
Nominal
Net To Re- Re-
Oct., Profit. Dividends. serves, serves.
1919.. £1,061 Nil £lO6l £lO6l
1920.. 4,315 Nil 4315 5376
1921.. 5,241 5 p.c. =£9591 1026
1922.. 9.506 5 „ „ 9591 1001
1923.. 9,414 5 „ „ 9591 824
1924.. 9,718 5 „ „ 9591 127 951
Prefs.
10 p.c. Ords.
1925.. 9,919 60 5 p.c. = 9,591 268 1219
1926.. 15,500 364 6 „ ~12,645 2491 3710
Twelve months ago, after protracted negotia-
tions, an-agreement was entered into with the
society which controls Longcliamps —the
Randwick of France. That contract was
finalised during the term, and a subsidiary
was formed to handle the proposition. In
order to attract investors the parent co.
guaranteed for 20 years the 10 p.c. cum. divs.
on the pref. issue. Thus analysis of Auto-
matic Totalisator profits is dominated by
consideration of the subsidiary. Will the
French co. earn sufficient to pay its own
profs.? The directors are emphatic: before
committing Automatic Tote to the guarantee
they inquired “most exhaustively into all the
possibilities, and are fully confident that the
subsidiary’s earnings, upon the most conser-
vative estimate, will be more than ample to
meet this div. requirement.” The machine
is to be installed by the pup, which will be
repaid by a percentage deducted from the
investments through the machine over a term
of 20 years. Abnormal political or economic
developments in France may conceivably
throw a wrench into the careful calculations.
Auto. Totes itself is doing well and should
show progressive improvement. Last year’s
increase in earnings came chiefly from
foreign activities, although portion was de-
rived from improvement in Australian
returns. It is mentioned that only now is
the overseas business making itself felt in
the profits column. Heavy sums had to be
expended to win this business —particularly
did the long-drawn-out endeavors in France
use up much money. Future profits, says the
report, should show very material improve-
ment, even without any additional contracts
that may be secured. Rangoon, Singapore
and S. Aus. installations were completed
during the term, and indications are that
returns will exceed original estimates. New
contracts secured are for the installation of two
more machines for the Western India Turf
Club and two for the Ceylon T. C. Nothing
is mentioned of Canada, although the possi-
bilities were considered bright 12 months ago.
Big things are expected to materialise once
the machines are working at Longcliamps.
There certainly seem to be good grounds for
anticipating an easier task in nailing down
contracts once the Australian machine has
demonstrated its superiority to the pari
mutuel.
Overhead is heavy, but it wall not in-
crease as revenue increases, for the most
expensive part of the pioneering lias been
done. Balance-sheet movements were in the
right direction :
1923. 1925. 1926.
Paid capital .. .. £191,825 £196,200 £206,879
Liabilities . . . . 9,520 14,666 13,495
Patent rights, plant, etc. 177,799 189,980 196,696
Book debts . . . . 33,644 30,881 28,210
Freeholds and furniture 6,176 6.788 6,793
Stock 4,298 5,871 10,221
Cash 0,60 4 7,178 1 3,683
Calls on the 17.500 10 p.c. prefs. issued in
the previous year accounted for the increase
in capital (£2587 was unpaid at October
81). Patents covering improvements in the
co.’s machines were taken out during the


THE CHOICE OF
INVESTMENTS
HOW TO PICK THEM.
See
“ Wild Cat’ Monthly”
for February.
Available at all principal
Newsagents, or direct from
“The Bulletin” Offices,
Sydney and Melbourne,
Price 2/-
We stock -(- GF -f* Malleable Fittings to suit
every requirement, and as there are over 7500
varieties to choose from, we can accommodate any
trade. For water, steam or gas. Will not split or
crack, and are correct in every detail. Obtainable
fiom William Adams & Co., I/td., Sole Agents,
Sydney, Newcastle, Melbourne, Brisbane, Adelaide,
Perth. — Advt.
* * * *
The economic facility with which Pioneer Wood
Pipe can be quickly installed and its unquestionable
efficiency are points which are engaging the interest
of all progressive engineers. Practically indestruc-
tible and actually increasing in capacity the more
it is used, it is ideal for almost any class of conduit.
Send for our free, descriptive and profusely illus-
trated booklet. The Australian Wood Pipe Uo., Ltd.,
.Burns Bay Road, Lane Cove, N.S.W. — Advt.
* * * *
WIRE ROPES—AUSTRALIAN MADE—Prices and
particulars from Bullivants’ Australian Co., Ltd.,
331-333 Kent Street, Sydney; B. K. Morton Pro-
prietary, Ltd., 85 Clarence Street, Sydney; J. R.
Reid and Sons, 401-403 Kent Street, Sydney, Success-
fully used all over the Commonwealth for all pur-
poses. — Advt.
Inventors. —Have you an idea worth patenting?
Griffith & Hassel, Patent Attorney, 77 Castlercagh
Street, Sydney, obtain Commonwealth and foreign
patents.— Advt.
• * * *
IDEAS —Commonwealth and Foreign Patents
obtained. Coli.ison & Co., 483 Collins Street, Mel-
bourne, and Adelaide. Thirty yeais’ practice. Write
us for Inventors’ Guide.— Advt.
Are you interested in concrete mixing, etc. ?
Arthur Leplastrier & Co. Pty., Ltd., Goldsbrough
House, Sydney; Collins House, Collins Street, Mel-
bourne ; 164 Edward Street, Brisbane; and 29
Morphett Street, Adelaide —manufacture in Australia,
the famous “Multimix” Drum-type Concrete Mixers
from small to very large sizes, and now cater for
the small user with their “Tiltamix” One-man
Onc-barrowload Tilting-type Mixer. Write, wire or
telephone for full particulars to the nearest branch
of this Concrete Mixing Specialty Firm. — Advt.
Agents Wanted.
WANTED, a Melbourne firm of share-
brokers (must be members of the Mel-
bourne Stock Exchange) to act as Agents
for a reliable firm in Eastern Asia. Apply
X.Y.Z., c/o The Bulletin.
The Pacific Cable Board
BEST ROUTE TO GREAT BRITAIN,
CANADA, NEW ZEALAND, etc.
TARIFF PER WORD “VIA PACIFIC.”
Ordi- Daily Daily Letter
nary. Deferred. Telegram.
great \
BRITAIN f
2/6
1/3 Scl. (minimum
15/-, 20 words)
Week-end 7}d. (minimum charge 12/6, 20 words)
FRANCE
HOLLAND
BELGIUM
GERMANY
SWITZERLAND
2/6 1/3
Nil
CANADA .. 2/- 1/- 7d. (minimum
11/S. 20 words)
Week-end 5Jd. (minimum charge 9/7,20 words)
U.S.A. .. 2/4 to 1/2 to Nil
2/8 2/4
NEW
ZEALAND.. 4}d.
r N.Z. Night Letter
J Rate minimum charge
I 3/- for 20 words and
( 2d. per word thereafter.
THE PACIFIC CABLE BOARD,
261 George Street, and 55 Liverpool Street,
Sydney.
Tel. City 1346 and B 7784.
Queen’s House, Queen Street. Melbourne.
Tel. Central 2084.
Queensland
Insurance Go.
Ltd.
Head Office:
Pitt & Bridge Streets,
Sydney.
The Largest
Australian Company
transacting
Fire, Marine, Personal
Accident and Sickness,
Burglary, Live Stock,
Public Risk, Boiler Ex-
plosion, Workers’ Com-
pensation. etc., etc.
B O
FINEST DRY GIN
8l OLD TOM _
Lswlft & Company Ltil.. Australasian Agents. 26 30 Clarence St., Sydney
ARE YOU AWARE
TH\T it is not necessary for you to impose upon your friends the arduous
iH DUTIES OF EXECUTOR OR TRUSTEE?
PERPETUAL TRUSTEE COMPANY (LIMITED)
Minimum of Expense. The value of Estates and Agencies at present under /he Company s
exceeds £28,000,000, which is evidence of the confidence m which it is held by the Public.
DIRECTORS: ttit7TT
? on H Vijr 01, M LC ' <Cl " llr ™ n) waltekVbtontos
sir SAMUEL HORDERN R ‘ LYSAGHT
Managing Director: R. COPLAND LETHBRIDGE. „. nKn A n
RESERVE FUND non 000
SUBSCRIBED CAPITAL £ l’?2nnnn
PAID-UP CAPITAL £I6O,UOU
Write or onll for Booklet. . _
33-39 HUNTER STREET, SYDNEY. H. V. DOUGLASS, Manager.
v "ir The amount of goodwill isn t shown,
him lumped with “models, plant, Queensland,
SI Adelaide and Speedway macnmes pre-
,,'m ,nts etc.. £198,696” —an increase ot£B7lo
over'lyilS. Although the amount is unspeci-
fied it is obvious that a big portion of that
item is froth. The co. has passed the corner ;
that seems definite. But until it wipes out the
intangible which dominates the accounts, and
replaces it with solid assets, the return will
be at least uncertain.
* * ® ,
Kalgoorlie is expecting some good to result
from the proposed appointment of an omcer
from abroad as head of the Geological .ui-
vey and Mines Department. Kingsley
Thomas, who last year spent three months
in the West explaining how he would have
handled the gold industry, is reviewing appli-
cations for the position and may make a
recommendation any day. All the success-
ful applicant will be required to do is to
revive the industry, which may be easy or
not, most likely not. Pending the discovery
of new mining centres, or new payable gold-
bearing ore deposits in old ones, the industry
is expiring from natural causes. With one
exception, practically all the Boulder Mile
shows have been exhausted to the tributing
stage or worse. Schemes for amalgamation
of worked-out mines are not likely to repay
capital outlay involved. Lake View and
Star and Ivanhoe Gold Corporation tried
amalgamation with 110 better result to share-
holders than postponement of liquidation.
Tributors certainly do well out of the mines
after the company working stage is passed,
but the public hears only the results of the
operations of the most successful tributors.
One tributor pays a man to work his interest
in the party, while he himself runs a farm
hundreds of miles away. He collects about
£IUU a month out of the tribute, but there
arc few situated so happily. When the
necessary new discoveries are made the
revival will occur without any advice from
outside. One successful Westralian prospec-
tor will prove a better revivalist than all
outside mining experts combined. When that
prospector comes along there will be plenty
of capable men waiting to show him how to
extract and treat all the ore exposed.
* * * *
The Adelaide crowd might have done worse
than pay owners of Radio mine (near South-
ern Cross) £40,000 cash last year for their
property. They took a working option over
the show at that figure, and finally offered
£20,000 cash and shares to nominal value
of the same amount, which offer was
refused. The owners have done extremely
well out of the show since getting it back,
and it appears certain that they will make
over £40,000 profit between the time Adelaide
gave up and the mine finally closes down.
However, Adelaide got a fine little flutter on
the market during the option period.
* * * *
The Westralian Government had a sad
experience with the Lake Clifton railway,
and it may be inviting a repetition in con-
nection with Westralian Manganese Co. This
concern, which has a strong board, financially
and politically, required £BO,OOO worth of
steel rails, but the B.H.P. steelworks at
Newcastle would not supply unless the order
was guaranteed by the Government. The
guarantee was. given.
* * * *
Golden Butterfly has settled at Glenelg
Hills (W.A.). For years it has flitted to
many places both in and out of Groperland,
and has had more than its share of duffers
and delusions. Now it claims to have got
hold of something giving 3oz. to 4oz. dish
prospects near the surface and to have an
ore deposit which “appears to be widening in
depth.” For the sake of disheartened share-
holders the Wild Cat hopes that this is so.
Mutooroo’s latest option at Mount Vernon,
on the East Murchison goldfield (W.A.),
has a chance. Down to 60ft. the lode in the
property has crushed well and, judging by
appearances, it may turn out even better
further down. Water for crushing purposes
is a drawback at present, but an ample sup-
ply is expected to be struck at a compara-
tively shallow depth. Mutooroo is the first
Adelaide option-seeker to become interested
in Mount Vernon ventures, but several others
talk of following suit.
* * * *
Apart from Freney’s area prospecting for
oil in the West is almost at a standstill.
Originally 154 “concessions” were granted,
but all except 15—including two of
Freney’s—have been forfeited or abandoned.
Outside Freney’s most of the areas held are
in the vicinity of Cheyne beach, near Albany,
and adjacent to Rockingham, south of Fre-
mantle. None of these properties are con-
sidered by Government geologists to be worth
anything, but their opinions are not coinci-
dent with the high hopes of the holders.
Tanami (N.T.) flutter to 2s. 2d. ebbed
again when further transport troubles with
the gear became public property. The chair-
man says now that gold should be won by the
battery next month, but meantime a second
3d. call became collectable on the 40,000
2s. 6d. prefs. signed up last year. This
makes them paid to Is. 3d., or half the
amount that is in them if necessary. De-
ferred hopes have weakened the originals, of
which there are 160,000, to Is. 9d. sellers for
2s. 6d. paid.
* * * *
Experiments with finer screens at Flag-
stone (N.S.W.) proved a retrograde step ot
such disastrous nature that the yield fell to
22ewt. of concentrates in a fortnight—and
the loss in the tailings was as much as ever.
The board decided to instal C. Lonsdale
Smith in charge at the mine, and he took
over this week. Smith considers that the
Flagstone itself is patchy and not the uni-
form bonanza past reports have represented
it to be; but lie cottons to the West h lag-
stone and Cartwheel leases as likely to give
the necessary sweetener to help the show out.
A rejuvenated lay-out to bring these leases
and the mill together must mean calls, and
these will make things unsettled for the 4500
contribs. carrying 7500 drones on their backs.
The contribs. have had 525. 6d. called up, and
the vendors’ have af; ee value of £5. 11ns
doesn't impress ’Change much, where some-
body offers “10 bob.”
* * * *
The usual delay inseparable from N. S.
Wales mining shows has been experienced in
erecting the extra 10 head of stamps at Wil-
kinson’s Amalgamated, Yalwal. These were
to have flourished in December and returned
a Christmas div., but the suction-gas engine
got in the way and appears to have set the
board a temporarily insoluble problem. Not
being able to ascertain which particular
director he was to take instructions from,
secretary Alan Davis resigned last week.
* * * *
Chairman D. K. Inglis, of N.Q. Rare
Metals, Wolfram, lias issued a report with
a ray of hope in it. The mill, he savs, should
be completed at the end of the month, and
“we should have an appreciable amount ot
saleable concentrates by the end of March.
Such an offer of results is so delightfully
vague that something more definite about the
mill, which follows, will be appreciated.
“Mill construction is being carried out in a
most thorough and modern method, and the
whole working of the property will compare
very favorably with any mining work in
Australia. This, to a large extent, has been
made possible by the purchase, some time ago,
of the assets of the Thermo Co.”
* * * *
New Guinea Oil Co. has raised sufficient
wind to warrant a further visit by driller
A. H. Moore to Orokola Bay. Additional
casing has been ordered from ’Frisco, and
Moore should have things ready for its recep-
tion in the country by the Gulf of Papua when
its shipment and transport have been accom-
plished. Sydney felt inclined to buy shares
at about Bs. when the news first leaked out,
but on the official announcement as to the
extent of the domestic development, the mar-
ket decided that ss. was enough.
* * * *
A scheme for recovering stream tin from
the Wild and Dry rivers (N.Q.) has been
conceived by a Melbourne man. He has
pegged out about 12 miles of the river beds
and flats, and has secured water rights. The
idea is based upon the discovery of a bank
of rock extending across the Wild _ River,
which, it is estimated, can be utilised to
dam 500,000,000 gallons of water. The
water will be conveyed through pipes to
river flats, said to contain payable quanti-
ties of stream tin.
* * * *
Sugarloaf Tin Co., Staiithorpe (Q.), has
been taken by a co. with a capital of £70,000,
of which £35,150 goes for purchase. The
area is 800 acres, and D. McNab has
bored the property, which he estimates, con-
tains 3,591,000 c. yds. likely to yield 2306
tons of tin oxide through the work of four
plants. On the basis of £275 a ton for tin,
monthly profit with two shifts is set down
at £3600, or £41,400 a year. Ten thousand
shares go to vendors, 10,000 to option-holders
and 50,000 were placed in Melbourne at ss.
down, balance in calls. One thousand pounds
will be paid to J. B. Ferris, of Staiithorpe,
for rights surrendered and services rendered.
Recipients of the balance are not stated.
* » * *
Another flat make has been got at Ajax,
Daylesford (Vic.). This time the tributors are
in possession. It is 25ft. across, which isn’t
much to boast about, but the grade has made
to 15dwt., which pays well. What invests
the strike with interest is that the stone has
been followed close to McMillan’s reef in
new country and if it drops into that lode a
splash of gold may once more set Ajax on its
feet. Already the co. plans to go ahead of
the tributors’ block at No. 6 level to test
whether the make extends into undeveloped
ground.
* * * *
Since 1920 Mount Bischoff has not paid a
div., despite the hieli prices touched by tin of
recent times. The reason is that to mine in the
old claim was costly and contents too low
to distribute profits without an eye to the
future, which covered the ability to work
profitably the tin drift in the North Valley.
Lindesay Clark, after long testing, advised
that prospects there were good. Tin then
was lower in price than to-day. and as the
market is at a profitable level, the board
considers that it is in a position to look ahead
confidently and at the same time dribble ou.
a ss. div. or two to keep peace with share-
holders. These ought to understand the folly
of paying out the last copper and then hav-
ing to make calls for work m the Nor„
Valley. Mount Bischoff has yielded over
80,000 tons of tin oxide and paid 810 a
share in divs., so that the claim merits
having cash re-invested in it.
* * * *
The Speck, having done so well out of tin
in Malaya, now turns to Nigeria. Bull has
been there for long, just as he pioneered in
the East. But he moves slowly. W. D.
Smith, who linked up with Tommy Lyons ot
Tatt.’s and the late Henry Jones, bought
one Nigerian area —the Prussum Dagi—-tor
£390 and added a mining right over another,
as well as an undeveloped block of 56 acres.
Next he pegged out 12f square miles known
as the Zeiau area and the Dugan Kua ot J 4
square miles. To finance prospecting the
Tasmanian Niger Co. was formed with a
capital of £5OOO, of which £2OOO was cash.
The rest of the paids went for concessions.
Tommy Lyons reports that H. M. Cecil,
of Cecil Ryan’s Pioneer mine, is to go as
second to Smith, and that John Bulls Ray-
field co. has wanted to come into, a deal.
Terms proposed were to tack one of its leases
on to a Tassy block and do a London float
on somewhat better than 50-50 terms. Lyons
felt that his Hobart associates had money
enough to keep going. Manager Angas Butler,
of the Rayfield, however, has got the job of
reporting on the Tasmanian Niger show,
and with his check work right no doubt room
will be found for Bull when a general fioa„
is made. This is a shrewd arrangement, for
a market in London and Hobart will keep
things merry. To date cables from Butler
support the statement that manager W. C.
Smith has picked up an old lead which aver-
ages lib. of oxide per yd. The wash goes
down to a depth of 28ft., its_ average
being 6ft. Butler estimates that 1000 tons
of oxide has been proved on one block having
an area of four square miles, with a lot ot
ground still unprospected. The Hobart pro-
gramme is to keep the Tasmanian Niger as a
prospecting co. and float off blocks o l(i Aus-
tral Malay as fresh areas are proved. Lately
the capital of the co. was enlarged to
£lO,OOO. Calls will have to be made to work
out the programme as set.
* * * *
Ratrut Basin’s general meeting gave chair-
man Kerry a chance to supply details ot the
proposed transfer of the co.’s interests m
the new properties near Sichon, m Siam.
As stated in this Column, the old Ratrut
Basin dredge is to be taken over and re-
erected. The dredge has been re-conditioned,
with new manganese steel buckets, a new
ladder and an up-to-date jig system. Ihe
estimates of the returns from this dredge
in the new ground were based on a monthly
return of 75,000 yards. The dredge, in its
old home, has often done as much as
85,000, and as the new ground is easy, more
is expected. With a discard of 75 per cent,
through the screens, only 25 per cent, would
be left for treatment by the jigs. ihe
28oz. estimate for the upper area ot
the new property lias been confirmed.
Where bores were bottomed o9oz. values
were got, but only a third of the
holes had gone through the lower deposit,
through which the dredge will easily be
able to go to the bottom. The new dredge,
a replica of Takuapa No. 2, but with 10 c. ft.
buckets and a deeper dig, will be built by
Boole and Steele, of Adelaide, contract time
being set at 131 months from January 24.
It will be fitted with 12 jigs and classifiers,
as well as with the Diesel engines for electric
power. The purchased property is given a
12 vears’ life and further acquisitions will
add 14 000,000 c. vds. to the 22,000,000 already
proved. The old Basin area, which is con-
sidered by the directors as quite a decent
property still, is to be dealt with by tli-
board as may seem advisable.
* * * *
“Market Analyst”: The world’s tin sup-
plies at the end of January showed a slight
shrinkage compared with the December total,
and a greater one in comparison with the
figures for the corresponding period ot 192 b.
This table indicates the position on Feb-
ruary 1 . 1927 —_ ig26
Feb. Dec. 31. Feb. 1.
tons. tons. tons.
Total visible supply .. 14,193 15,004 15,592
Cons, during January .. 9,,02 9,4,6 10,944
Received during January.. 8,891 10,243 9, 80,
With shorter supplies and a slightly increased
consumption, an improvement m demand
might be anticipated, but there is one dis-
quieting feature for those who are anxious
to see an upward trend in tin prices. 1 hat
is the absence this year of the American
buyers, who take the cream ot the market.
These usually begin to fill their require-
ments in December, and carry on till March,
and this is responsible for the almost invari-
able rise in prices during that period. It
is considered unlikely that they will make
their appearance now. Since the Yanks are
the world’s biggest buyers, a further drop
in tin prices will do no good to the many
Australian-lield shows whose scrip is over-
valued. The Sydney market for tin shares
has been sluggish lately, and the business
done has been mostly kite-flying by big
holders to keep present prices steady. Unless
tin improves considerably in price this
month, there will be lamentation among
those who have acquired large holdings of
scrip at top prices.
* * * *
The recent discovery of oil at Seal Beach,
three miles from the famous Signal Hill field,
in southern California, affords a splendid
illustration of the difficulties which attend
the quest for oil. In 1921 a well was drilled
and abandoned. Subsequently, 18 dry holes
were put down. A few months ago a co.
punched a drill down to 4427 ft. and struck
oil. One of the dry wells was within 800 ft.
of the discovery well, and all but one of
the remainder were within a mile and a half.
* * * *
Ormildali Oil Co., operating in the Man-
dated Territory near Marienberg, on the
Sepik River, is sending driller Crawford
back, together with a second driller, by the
next boat leaving for Rabaul. The bore is
now down 1485 ft. Gas lias been struck in
several horizons. The co. is plugging away
on the right lines.


of * qrem national inoustr/
\NIU_ BE As SATISFACTORY OF COURSE.
So WUA. * STUDY OP the DEFENCE RROBuEn .
•As Likewise
YhL\_ AN \NQUIRV CONCERN^q
me irr\c/vt»on .
f\ Personal iN'JEST\c,AaroH touchinc, beach peri\_swii_l also assol^e
The absent one
And Pressing Business v'H-th as constituent
WfLL BE A VALID EXCUSE ALWAYS
SO -fas. Business OF THE COUNTRY WU. BE CARRIED o*4,
MUCH AS USU^U,
SATISFACTORY EXPLANATIONS.
“A proposal to be submitted to the N.S.W. A.L.P. Conference is that politicians should suffer a percentage deduction of pay for absence from sittings of Parliamen'
unless they can furnish in every case a satisfactory explanation for non-attendance.”


tried the
rest-youll smoke the best
20 for VG
ARDATH TOBACCO CO« LTD: LONDON.
CIGARETTES
SOCIETY
"and it's
printed with
WIMBLE'S INKS”
“C.Q.”: Heidelberg (Vic.), seven miles
from the centre of Melbourne, is a quaint
mixture of rurality and suburbia. A cease-
less struggle is proceeding there between
the big dairy farms, 50 years in occupa-
tion, and the brick and wooden regiments
of city workers’ bungalows. As a sort of
last effort the district staged a bush fire
the other day, which swept 1200 acres, and
while season-ticket holders were sitting in
their counting-houses in the city their wives
and families and a volunteer fire-brigade, 200
strong, were fighting the flames, while post-
and school-mistresses served the firing-line
with limejuice and water. One house which
nearly suffered the fate many settlers’ huts
are heirs to is the home of Director of
Migration Gepp. A daughter, aged five, a
housekeeper and a maid found themselves
surrounded for upwards of an hour.
* 1 * * *
“Rob P.” : Is sly-grog selling more repre-
hensible than peddling cocaine? Recently
Brisbane detectives arrested and charged a
woman with the latter offence. Convicted,
she was fined a modest tenner, although
she had a “record.” A few days later another
woman had to part with £25 for selling a
bottle of beer without a license. The
“snow” lady’s fine was immediately forth-
coming.
“Ignotus”: In an age where
fresh schemes are perpetually
being devised for coddling crimi-
nals, and crime itself is re-
garded by many worthy people
as a disease due to limited in-
telligence rather than a habit,
a book called “Criminal Intelli-
gence,” by Professor Carl
Murchison, of Clark University,
U.S.A., comes as a sort of anti-
dote to maudlin sentimentality.
After studying and testing
about 7000 criminals, the Pro-
fessor is satisfied that the crimi-
nal class shows an intelligence
at least equal, if not superior,
to that of the general popula-
tion. Further, he finds that the
hardened criminal: possesses a
higher intelligence than the
first offender. So he cuts him-
self adrift from the present
maternal attitude so often dis-
played towards criminals. As
keeping old offenders alive is so
costly to the State, to say no-
thing of the shock-
ing waste of time
and effort, he con-
siders that the
third penitentiary
conviction ought to
carry an automatic
death sentence.
The abolition of
release on bond,
and of the parole
system generally,
are also advocated.
Obviously, too,
there would be no
further need for
the indeterminate
sentence —the third
term would be
determinate enough
for the worst case.
* *
“A.Q.”: Here is
one genuine note
I have received in
my capacity of
schoolmarm: —
Dear Teacher, —Please excuse Freda being absent
from school yesterday, but she had the misfortune to
swallow a sixpence on Wednesday night and we had
to use cosmetics to her.
* * * *
“Blime”: Life is full of mysteries, and
the most trivial are often the most intrigu-
ing. The other day I was going along Cath-
edral-street, East Sydney— not “Th’ Loo,”
nowadays, please—when three men emerged
from a narrow cross street, and deposited
themselves and a large wicker-covered jar
in a Lizzie panting by the kerb. After an
interval, they glared up the cross street and
yelled for “Minnee.” The latter stepped
out of a house and strolled in leisurely
fashion down to the car. On her way she
picked up a cabbage leaf from the gutter
and, negligently chewing this, stepped into
the front seat beside the driver, and was
whisked away, on what errand I am still
AND SHE THOUGHT SHE
WAS IT.
“I’m glad the Charleston is going out.”
“Too right—I never could learn the
darned thing, either.”
wondering. She was a white goat of urbane
and respectable aspect, with a figure which
put goat-racing out of the question. Also,
she could not be regarded as spring lamb,
even by a suburban butcher.
* * * *
“Retired Volt” : A telegraphist on the Adel-
aide-Darwin line has been pulling the leg of
a Melbourne pressman whom he found stray-
ing somewhere in the “Dead Heart.” They
were talking about telegraphy, so the corres-
pondent says, and the t.c. related a remark-
able example. When he was receiving mes-
sages in cipher, and lightning was cutting
up the signals, he used to concentrate on
the one thought, “Repeat such and such a word
when you finish.” And so, when the man in
Adelaide had finished, without being asked
and although he could not possibly know
what words had been damaged, he repeated
the mutilated sections. The only thing
wrong with the miraculous part of this
story is that, according to the international
regulations, all words in a cipher message
have to be repeated!
* * * *
“Budgeree”: The total flown in
Australia by regular routes is 8500 miles
weekly. In Victoria the Larkin Co. flies
2544 miles a week, and the Queensland and
N. T. Co. covers 1650. In W. A. a much bigger
distance is traversed. A Tas. company being
formed in Melbourne has asked the Federal
Government for a subsidy for mails and pas-
sengers at the same rate as other companies
receive, between 3s. and 4s. per mile flown.
Flying-boats are safer than motor-’buses or
electric trams, and a daily air service to
Tasmania should have been established long
ago. No part of Australia needs a sa-A and
rapid flying service more.
* * * *
“Feng-Shui”: Strong drink and the
traffic therein are a fruitful cause of poli-
tical scandals among Caucasian peoples; in
Japan it is another social weakness. Nip-
ponese politicians have been involved in
trouble over a yoshiwara, poetically called the
Pine Island, in Osaka. The story is that public
indignation was first aroused by certain per-
sons against the presence of a redliglit district
in the city’s midst. Legislation was mooted
to have the plague spot removed outside the
city, and the locality selected was precisely
that which the aforesaid persons had bought
previously. The value of land which would
be needed for teashops, etc., around it went
up enormously, but before the removal was
authorised politicians, it is alleged, extracted
over half a million yen from the speculators.
Then the lid blew off the plot, and a public
inquiry followed. The Opposition would like
to make party capital out of it, and so would
the Government, but unfortunately it was
found that members of all parties were
involved.
* * * *
“Six-and-Eight”: I remember a N.S.W.
coalminer who had an escape from death
somewhat similar to that of the sailor who,
falling overboard, chanced to grasp the line
of the patent log (B. 3/2/’27). About 3o
years ago he was thrown down by an explo-
sion in a Litligow colliery and fell over the
rails of the main hauling track. As he fell
his hand touched the wire tail-rope of a set
of skips—the last to be hauled out of the
mine. Bumped along over sleepers, rails and
pulleys he hung on like grim death to the
rope till he was drawn out of the tunnel
mouth. The hero of this exhibition of
strength and cool-headedness lived for 30
years thereafter to tell a moving tale of
iiow lie had been so close to Hades that he
could sniff the brimstone.
* * * *
“Werrimee”: The storekeeper in our one-
horse town is a suave and amiable bloke —
unless you suggest giving a send-off to some-
body, and then he’ll jump down your neck.
He went for a six months’ holiday once,
and his friends gave him a send-off and a
purse of 50 sovereigns. Since then every-
body in the town who subscribed to it has
taken a holiday, or got married, or broken
THE GOOD LIAR.
“This is my birthday, and you haven’t
brought me any present or said a word
about it, and”
“Darling, I remembered it perfectly; but
as you are looking younger than you
did a year ago, I thought it would be
unkind to remind you that you are
really twelve months older.”
liis leg in distressful circumstances, or had
some other misfortune; and General Store,
being a business man, couldn’t refuse to
subscribe as much as the person concerned
had given him. He reckons he’s returned
the 50 sovereigns and the price of the purse,
and something extra by way of interest; and
now lie’s for including presentation send-offs
in the Gaming Act.
THE BELLS.
[FOR THE BULLETIN. ]
“A brisk controversy is being waged in the dailies
regarding the desirability of a campanile ioi the
carillon which is to serve as Sydney University s
war memorial. One embittered disputant warns
another that his ‘pulexanimous attack on the project
is in danger of discording the beautiful music ot
the bells from a fugue to a feud.' ”
0, the bells!
Gold-tongued bells!
lVhat a prospect of a brighter, better Sydney in
them dwells.
How they’ll peal and chime and trill on
Peaceful eves from their carillon,
Glad and mad and sad by spasms, like our bad old
brother Villon,
And in spells;
How their team-work shall enamor
And their music cast a glamor
O’er a bustling city’s clamor
And its yells.
0, the bells!
0, the bells!
Magic bells!
Cease your jangling, you professors, can’t you see
how it repels?
Have a bit of decent feeling.
Music should go gently stealing
Over street and mart and harbor, with an influence
for healing
Nought excels.
“Pulexanimous” sounds galling.
Brothers, quit your strife and brawling
And this dissonance appalling
That dispels
Thoughts of bells.
THE WIDOW’S MIGHT.
ADA : “I see Mrs. Makepace is married again.”
MAIDA: “Yes. I thought she’d he able to husband her resources.”
0, the bells!
Lilting bells!
See them standing over Sydney, watchful, sleepless
sentinels.
Hear the message that emerges
From the paeans and the dirges,
Stately march or merry measure, as the cadence
ebbs or surges,
Sinks or swells.
Hear it with prophetic fancy
The melodious necromancy,
Borne about on zephyrs chancy,
One foretells
In the bells.
O, the bells!
Long-craved bells !
Whatsoever tower may house them, campanile or
something else,
Will they clang a wordless ditty
Tense with warning when the City
Fathers, or the State’s elected rulers, emulate ban-
ditti ?
To the cells
Will they bring a sound that’s cheery
When the hours are lagging dreary?
Will their sweetness drag the beery
From hotels?
Will Dorn, sleepers, wan and w’eary,
Wake to find —ah, that’s a query!—
Lullaby or Miserere
In the bells ?
N.S.W.
T. THE R.


“Feng-Shui”; While the
late W. E. Gladstone’s moral-
ity was being vindicated in
London, the propriety of
General Nogi’s hara-kiri was
being furiously debated in
Japan, and the latter indi-
cates the greater revolution in
national habits of thought.
When the Emperor Meiji died.
15 years ago, Count Nogi and
his wife bathed, clad them-
selves in clean white clothes,
sat back on their heels in
Japanese style before a por-
trait of their sovereign, and,
disembowelling themselves with
the sword the Count had worn
when he took Port Arthur
from the Russians, hurried off
to attend the Emperor whose
body was just leaving the
palace gates. The house has
been preserved ; a dingy little
home, _ with the bloodstains
still visible on the tatami and
a hopelessly sordid look about
it, like the newspaper photo-
graphs of a murder with the
spot marked “X.” It is still
visited by reverent thousands,
but the deed itself is being
seriously questioned. The
Count is accused of having
brought pressure to bear on
his wife to accompany him,
and there are even some who
say that life is given by God
and should not be taken by
one’s own hand. This is an
essentially modern heresy.
Time was when a deceased
emperor was assured of ser-
vice in the next world by a
full staff of servants being
buried alive with him. When
this custom fell into disrepute
men like Nogi were always
ready to see that their mon-
arch was properly attended
by ghostly hands, even if
those hands had to be their
own. But time changes all
things; nobody, as far as can
be learnt, followed the late
Emperor Yoshihito when he
“thanked the world” and went
aloft.
* * *
“Leamington” ; On a recent
Sunday morning the Coogoe
(N.S.W.) Surf Life-saving
•Club was testing some candi-
dates for membership over a
course of some 2(H) yards,
which, on account of the
prevalence of sharks, is gener-
ally vigorously patrolled by
the club’s surf-boat before and
during the swimming. On
this occasion, however, the
craft was at Bronte, so the
club approached local fisher-
men with an offer of two
pounds for the hire of a boat.
As Sunday is their main day
for business, the fishermen de-
manded three pounds, but the
official was adamant, and the
end of the haggling saw tin*
races commence without an
escort. In the third heat, just
as the five swimmers wen;
nearing the turning - buoy,
their leader gave a yell, and
a moment later a black, sin-
ister shape was in the water
amongst them. In frenzied
fear they lashed the water to
a foam before beginning the
return swim, and the shark
was not sighted again. That
wrangle over a quid might
have cost some human lives.
* * *
“Bihai’’: The Mafulu district of Papua
is one of the most musical in the world.
The average Papuan, as a rule, is anything
but musical. The tom-tom. bamboo' flute
and jew’.s-harp supply his simple wants with
two or three notes, and his vocal efforts are
dirge-like. But on the slopes of Mt. Popole
community singing may be heard round the
village fires o’ nights which echoes down
the gloomy gorges like the tones of a vast,
organ. Some 25 years ago a Sacred Heart
missionary commenced, to train a choir for
his church. He drew his choristers from
villages where few ever died of old age—
where men slept, spear in hand, ready for
that alarm which too often came. From this
raw material Father Fastre has wrought
singers who would delight any audience in
the world; they have even learned to sing
grand opera in French. Yet nothing is more
certain than that the world will never hear
them, for, living as they do unclothed at
an altitude of some 4000 ft., death would be
the result of any attempt to transplant them
to new surroundings. Apart from mission-
aries and Government officials they seldom
see a white man, and are still as shy and
unspoiled as when Father Fastre commenced
his work amongst them.
* * * *
“Wang”: Some of the details of a singu-
larly rapid courtship, and an even briefer
period of wedded bliss, were disclosed in a
Melbourne suburban court the other Satur-
day. On the previous Sunday the chap in
the dock had a row with his landlady, and
angrily announced that he was fed up with
boarding and would get married. His
“view mat.” ad. duly appeared in next morn-
ing’s dailies, and Tuesday brought him
several answers. On Wednesday lie inter-
viewed the applicants, and made his selec-
tion, a middle-aged widow with “means.”
The pair were made one on Thursday; on
Friday the day-old bride gave her husband
in charge for blacking her eyes and attempt-
ing to purloin her “means,” and on Satur-
day the bridegroom faced the beaks. They
gave him 14 days.
WILL IT GOME TO THIS?
“The Sydney, which sank the Emuen, and thus removed the danger of a night attack on troopships
conveying the First Division across the Indian Ocean, is obsolete and may be scrapped. A suggestion that she
should be kept as a training-ship is opposed by a Sydney politician on the ground that it would cost too
much; besides ‘the sentimental value would not be great, nor would it be permanent' ”
“Harold llardupoulus”: Out of the row
between two factions in the now consider-
able Greek community of Sydney a new
temple of Greek orthodoxy is to arise. For
years Holy Trinity, at the corner of Bonrke
and Ridge streets, more than met the local
Hellene’s spiritual requirements; later, the
Sabbath skirmishes between two embittered
factions provided regular entertainment for
Itedfern and Surry Hills. The schism deep-
ened with the arrival of Archbishop Knetes,
brought out at the invitation of a section of
the congregation. The fact that he was
sent out by the higher church authorities
gave him a standing; but not unnaturally the
previous pastor, who was called upon to
take a back seat to the Archbishop, threw
in his lot with the rebels, and a frantic
struggle for possession of the tabernacle
resulted in victory for the followers of the
Rev. Archimandrite Atheragoras Waraklao.
Since then Knetes has been an archbishop
without a church; but his have
supplied the money to start the new cath-
edral.” which is now going up at the corner
of Raglan and Dowling streets.
* * * *
“Centurion”: Many a Digger, will note
with regretful interest the passing of Sir
Wilfred Stokes, who invented. the famous
trench mortar which put the wind up Fritz
in the early days of its career. The simple
little tube, which was fired merely by drop-
ping the combined shell and propellent into
it, could be worked with great speed, and
if a chap sometimes didn’t get his hand
away from the muzzle in time that was his
lookout. It was a marvellous weapon for
soothing opposition trenches when these
were within its short range, and its presence
in the .early days of Gallipoli might have
solved a lot of problems.
“Crojack”: Though the two rescued engi-
neers of the Galava, Flak and Campbell,
were in the water for 13 hours after the
collier sank, this is not a record immersion
on the Australian coast. When the Quetta
sank in 1890 off Cairns, two of the passen-
gers, Miss Alice Wickham and Miss Stacey,
were in the water 18 and 26 hours respec-
tively before the search steamer found them.
But the water was warmer up there. The
suddenness of the sinking of both the Galava
and the Quetta would be factors favorable
to endurance, as the people concerned went
into the water with their vitality unimpaired
by long anxious hours of fear and doubt,
hanging on to a doomed ship and wondering
when she would go. In the same way, a
man falling overboard has a better chance
than one who has been worn out with wait-
ing for the end to come.
“Emel”: “Pfella’s” gin who retrieved the
fallen toast with her toes (B. 27/l/’27) re-
calls the Papuan houseboy who similarly
treated a sausage that had fallen from the
dish he was carrying to table. When his
master remonstrated with him. he gravely
replied: “Him all right, taubada. Him not
too hot!”
“Muggins, Jun.”: There’s no doubt the
new aristocracy has arrived. Met a wheat-
lumper in the Malice (Yic.) the other day
who had motored down from Central Queens-
land via the coast “just for a change of
air.” Instead of going through his shear-
ing cheque in the time-honored manner, he
added it to his savings, retaining only enough
to buy a second-hand car (not a Ford,
either), slung Matilda in the back seat, and
stayed at the best hotels en route. Now the
lumping is finished he and the car are going
to the Speck by boat, on the chance of get-
ting some work with cattle.
* * * *
“lan C.”: A Gippsland parish priest was
acknowledging Christmas dues. The cham-
pion mean man of the parish had handed in
fifteen guineas, and treated himself to a front
seat to hear his munificence eulogised. Facing
the congregation from behind the altar-
rails, his riv’rince began the recital of the
names and gave pride of place to the grati-
fied Brian O’Broo and his £l5 15s. Then
he paused, and confided to the piece of paper
in front of his nose in an Irish whisper that
reached the back row, “I think that there
must be a good deal of arrears in that.”
“Wang” : Tardy rescues at
sea? An acquaintance of
mine, Bill Topsails, fell off a
cargo boat one night about
three years ago in the Indian
Ocean. He hung on to the
buoy pitched to him; but the
boat lowered could find no
trace of him, and the vessel
proceeded on its voyage. Bill's
luck was in, however; he was
picked up a few hours later
by a steamer and landed at
Melbourne, where he concluded
to stay. On a recent night,
while fishing from a boat in
Hobson’s Bay, he was caught
in a sudden squall, and the
boat overturned. Bill managed
to scramble on to the keel and
hung there, shouting for help.
His cries were heard by some
of the crew of a tramp
steamer anchored in the bay,
and a boat was lowered, and
presently returned to the
steamer with the exhausted
fisherman. He was hauled up
on deck and first aid admin-
istered. After a while Bill
opened his eyes and looked
around at the faces about him.
Suddenly he staggered to his
feet with a “Strike me lucky!
So yer did manage ter find me
at last!” His rescuers were
his old shipmates, and he was
standing on the deck of the
vessel lie had fallen off three
years previously. Bill had a
great night, and when he was
put ashore next morning he
was almost convinced that he
had been in the water for the
past three years. Some of the
crew were in ■ such a condi-
tion that they were quite cer-
tain of it.
“The Listening-Insect”: No-
thing shows so vividly the
extent of Japan’s breakaway
from old ideas as the innova-
tions introduced at the late
Mikado’s funeral. Mikados of
former years were treated as
if they were Leyden jars filled
to the hilt with supernatural
electricity. Lest they should
be “earthed” and the charge
dissipated, they had to be car-
ried when abroad, and when
indoors were insulated from
the ground with costly mats.
Apparently these beliefs have
failed to keep pace with the
progress of engineering science
in the island kingdom. At
the funeral of the Yoshihito
the old ceremonial was re-
vived, the road leading to the
imperial mausoleum was paved
with sand, and the catafalque
was mounted on the ingenious
mourning wheels which groan
in many tones in sympathy
with the grieving nation. But
for the first time those who
could not attend were able to
listen-in. The shuffling of feet
and the moaning of the wheels
were broadcast from Tokio!
Did anybody in Australia
catch the sounds?
“Bad Australian” : Old Tim
Sullivan was president of the
Shire of Boneliead when Lord
Hopetoun visited that thriv-
ing agricultural centre for the
annual show. The Town
Clerk and a local auctioneer
had put in a strenuous time
in coaching Tim how to re-
ceive the Gov. in proper style,
but the preparation proved to
ha»ve been time wasted, for
when his Ex. stepped off the
train he heard a robust voice
saying; “To tli’ Devil wid
their flash spache, anyhow.
A good day to ye, Mishter
Hopetoun. I hope I see ye
well; an’ how did ye lave her-
self an’ th’ childher?” H' s
Lordship, after getting over the shock, thor-
oughly enjoyed his day among the shorthorns
and the Berkshires, and the president eventu-
ally sped the parting guest with: “A goon
day an’ a good thrip to ye, Mishter Ilope-
toun. Wan av thim days when Igo down to
Melbourne wid a few thrucks av fats 1
slilip over to Govermint House an’ take W
wid yerself, herself an’ the family, so I will.
* * * *
“Budgeree”: When he visited Australia
in 18G7 the Duke of Edinburgh received
and replied to 103 addresses of welcome in
Victoria alone. Among the souvenirs which
he took home with him were a number
golden trowels which he had used for laying
foundation-stones. These trowels were son
by auction in London during the war, tm
Duke having renounced his rights as
British subject and become a naturalised
German citizen long before.
BALLADE OF HATE!
[FOR THE BULLETIN. ]
I favor with a mild distaste
“A strange diversity of things”—
Acknowledgment 1 make in haste
For this apt line another sings,
Since he who flies on stolen wings
On my black list earns high position
And little pity from me wrings—
But, Lord ! I hate a politician !
Although inclining e’er to paste
Each pest that crawls and bites and stings,
Some ruth I still can And to waste
On all, some understanding clings ;
The milkman who disorder brings
To dreams, with noises a magician,
I sometimes damn him as he “dings,”
But, Lord! I hate a politician!
Though oft with ardor I could baste
The crowd whose clumsy buffetings
Disturb my reveries so chaste
On—well, on cabbages and kings;
• That bore, whose dreary maunderings
One may not dodge, the statistician,
Small tenderness to him one flings—-
But, Lord ! I hate a politician!
Envoy.
Pray, ask me not for reasonings,
And seek for me no grave
physician;
I’m sane enough in other
things—
But, Lord! I hate a poli-
tician !
VICTORIA.
HASEN.


Usher’s Hotel Ltd
Castlereagh Street, Sydney.
A first-class new and up-to-date
modern hotel.
Running hot and cold water in all bid-
rooms and many have Bath de Luxe.
Automatic bedside telephones.
English and Trench Cuisine.
New Marble Bar, spacious and airy.
For perfection of service, comfort
and cleanliness, Usher’s Ltd. is un-
equalled.
Inclusive Terms, apply
MANAGER.
Cbe Equitable Cife
Asset.
00
O ft
of
Australasia Ctd.
Head Office:
Parbury House, Eagle Street, Brisbane.
Branches:
NSW.: VICTORIA:
8t Pitt St., Sydney. SCO Collins St., Melb.
Transacts Probate, Life Endowment, Com-
bined Benefits (All Sickness ) Assurance.
(Vacancies for Producers with good records.)
FREDK. LEVY, Mg. Director.
u
t
m
V{ 7\\>>
, - ! •>■£<
ALWAYS ORDER
Schweppes’
Dry Ginger Ale
the Only Original.
REFUSE SUBSTITUTES
AND IMITATIONS.
Manufactured only by
Schweppes, Limited.
“X.N.0.”: “Ur.S.” (B. 3/2/'27) expects
one to believe that a human being can grasp
a ship's log line at 11 knots and hold on.
Eleven knots means nearly 19 feet per
second, and the man has yet to be born whose
hands could stand his body being jerked
from a state of rest into that rate of motion
against air resistance only, let alone
the resistance of water. But this
sailor not only caught and held the
log line, which is about the thickness
of a Capstan cigarette, but he held
on for an hour, and was alive at the
end —in the North Atlantic. A man
who could do that should have been
able to throw 40 policemen into
Sydney Harbor without an effort.
BECOME A HABIT.
Sis: “Anyway, women are more forgiring Hum men."
C HRIS: “Quite likely. Certainly they make up oftcner.”
“Wee John”: Respecting the merits of
West Indians as soldiers (B. 20/l/’27) ,
the only time I saw them in action their
weapons were bottles and sticks. This was
in Winchester (England), where some Yanks
had taken -the opportunity of expressing
forcible disapproval of the niggers acting as
escorts for white women. The collision
that resulted brought me out of the Dog
and Duck, where I was having a quiet spot,
and a friendly Tommy gave me the tip to
dip my M.L. peaked hat lest I should be
mistaken by the West Indians for a Dough-
boy. I took his advice and borrowed a
Tommy officer's cap to get back to quarters.
Although the nigs, were nominally British,
I am pleased to say the Yanks ultimately
routed them with some damage.
* * * *
“Cartot” : The Chinese language has other
names for Australia than “The Second Gold
Mountain” (B. 3/2/’27). According to a
Mongolian friend of mine, there are at least
seven names which are used in ordinary con-
A'ersation to describe this country. The least
flattering and most frequently used signifies
“Far Devil Land.”
* * * *
“Yong”: Why this ingrained fear of
mineral drugs, and confidence in the harm-
lessness of those of vegetable origin? FeAV
mineral preparations approach in toxic effect
vegetable alkaloids such as strychnine,
brucine and aconitine; there are no soul-
destroying mineral equivalents of opium and
its derivatives, morphine, heroin and cocaine.
The late Professor McLaurin suggested that
the severe effects of the mercurial treatment
prescribed, up to 20 years ago, for syphilis,
might be responsible. Whatever the origin
of this queer ’phobia may have been, quacks
and patent-medicine vendors combine to keep
it alive.
* * * *
“Louden” : A Fitzroy publican who does
a brisk business in the jug-and-bottle depart-
ment opened his eyes wide when a regular
female customer, after surrounding tAvo pints
and having a large jug filled, tendered a £5-
note in payment. “You’re cashed up to-day,
Ma,” said Bung, counting out the change.
“My word,” acquiesced the lady. “My son
ran for the fiver at a country sports meet-
ing; the postman ran around with it to me,
and I ran around here.”
* * * *
“Gougor”: Two white stowaways in a
steamer bound north from Thursday Island
had a short but hectic time aboard. They
arranged with the Glioav bos’n to hide and feed
them for £4, that being their entire capital.
The boat left at night, and they were easily
smuggled into the forepeak, in a space in
which they could not comfortably turn
round. When Avell under Avay, the bos’n
and his satellites crept down and demanded
£lO. It Avas not forthcoming, _ and the
Chows promised unmentionable things to the
“white mongrels.” Matters looking nasty
in the darkness, the stowaways made a rush.
The Clioavs scattered like squealing rats.
Then they put the slioav away. A white
officer peered at the two cornered strays.
Without a word the forepeak avrs battened
up, and the stowaAvays had an inkling of
what the Black Hole of Calcutta was like.
The ship hove-to, and wirelessed for a launch
from the island. Meantime the yellow crew
had gathered around the forepeak and
poured out on the stowaways their filthiest
language. The whites at last retaliated, and
the Chows emptied foul water and refuse
upon them. Two very thankful lads were
finally handed over to the police. The adven-
turers had a hazy notion of joining the
THE SUPER-SALESMAN IN HIS OFF HOURS.
“Going to the dance to-night, darling, with the new commercial-traveller hoy?”
“ Rather! He's hilling! Why, last night he told me that he could knock fifteen per
cent, off and his lore for me would still take the shine out of everything else
offering in the line.”
Chinese Civil Service (whatever that may
be), or of becoming officers in the dis-
turbance over there. But they tell me they
were so startled by their first-hand experi-
ence of yellow hatred for the white that they
never want to meet the Chinaman in a place
where he is the boss.
* * * *
“H. al Rasehid” : Bagdad-by-the-Yarra can
provide a stirring spectacle at times. The
other Sunday evening a motor-car, which had
obviously been mixing strong waters with its
petrol, barged past the traffic cop at the
Swanston-Flinders-street intersection, and,
cannoning off lamp-posts on to tramcars, con-
tinued its furious way into the city. The
traffic cop, enraged at the snub, leaped into a
passing motor-car and ordered its owner to
pursue. At Collins-strcet the • inebriated
vehicle treated a second traffic cop with
similar disdain. He, too, requisitioned a
passing petrol-waggon and joined in the
pursuit. The chase swept on, more motor-
cars and -cycles joining in, until Swanston-
strect looked like the motordrome on a gala
evening. The drunk and disorderly convey-
ance was run into the gutter near Lonsdale-
street. Later, a young man and a girl
were charged at a city watch-house, one with
being intoxicated while driving a motor-car
and the other with using insulting words.
But no charge AVfis preferred against the car
itself. # #
“Candide”: All these surf-queen contests
remind me that I myself once won a river-god
competition. The judging, however, was a
much simpler thing. In June, 1919, our
motor-transport section was billeted in Beau-
mont, Belgium, and the village “maisons”
not possessing baths, we used to have a daily
swim in a pleasant little stream not far
from the town. Onej aftoemoon, as we were
sunning ourselves on the bank, between dives,
we suav a bouncing young country girl walk-
ing in our direction. We waved our arms
and veiled at her in Digger French to go
away, but she took no notice. Our clothes
were on the opposite side, so we all plunged
in. The lady came right to the bank and
stood there, ‘looking far more self-possessed
and unconcerned than any of us. At last
Bill got restless under her calm scrutiny.
“Mam’sell,” he adjured her, “you’re pretty
hot. but this Avater’s blariky cold, and I’m
getting out. Hony swore key mal u pons,
aoo compree? ’ And lie clambered up the
bank, the rest of us following. By now we
were beginning to see some humor in our
plight. Bill finished drying first, and,
chastely draped in his towel, stepped for-
ward. “Mam’sell,” lie said, “voolay voo pro-
menade avec maw?” She looked him up and
down and replied, “Ah non!” Several
others stood up and put the same
request, and all got the same answer.
“Mam’sell,” I said at last, “peut-etre,
e’est moi?” She smiled and nodded.
We finished dressing, the unsuccessful ex-
hibitors departed, and I crossed by a rustic
bridge a little up stream. We wandered off
together, but I had hardly more than asked
her name when a very angry madam
appeared, grabbed mam’sell by the arm and
dragged her off.
* * * *
“Iford”: I suppose naval experts will g >
on arguing about the Battle of Jutland till
the crack of doom (B. TO/2/’27), but Win-
ston Churchill, whatever his own defects as
a military strategist, deserves some credit
for having compressed Jellicoe’s tremendous
responsibilities into a sipgle memorable sen-
tence : “He was the only man on either side
who could lose the war in an afternoon.”
There was also, it seems to follow, no other
man among Britain’s millions who could
have done so much toward winning it in
the space of a few hours, in which case his
glory would most assuredly liaise dimmed
Nelson’s. In the other event he would as
certainly have had cause to envy Byng.
.Tellicoe’s admirers and supporters are mostly
Beatty’s detractors and rice versa. But
while Parliament voted Jellicoe £50,000 and
a viscountev at the end of the war, it gave
Beatty £lOO,OOO and an earldom, so the
historian of the future will at least have
some reason for assuming that the nation
set a much higher value on the second.
KNOCKING ROUND.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
When some act of childish folly in the years now
far away
Filled my heart with consternation, and my mentors
•with dismay, .
There was one thing ne’er omitted when in judgment
they Avould sit:
Just the hope that I’d know better when I’d knocked
about a bit.
And I’d hear the old men talking, and the men not
very old,
And I’d never fail to gather from the stirring tales
they told
That a man, however fashioned, couldn’t hope to
hold his ground
In an argument or tussle if he hadn’t knocked around.
Though it’s far that I have travelled from those
days of long ago,
And I’ve never met with wisdom, and it’s little that
I know,
By the things I can remember and the things I can t
forget,
It is plain to me I haven’t knocked about enough as
yet.
On the highways and the byways I have journeyed
far and wide,
And there still are roads to travel, and there still
are tracks untried,
And although my faith is shaken in the things the
old men said,
Something precious may be waiting round the bend
that’s just ahead.
Though it’s little I have gathered, and it’s little I
have gained,
And perhaps my tramp I’ll finish my objective
unattained,
Though I’ve done the things I should not, left undone
the things I should,
And not vet encountered wisdom, I have found the
quest is good.
And what though I haven’t tasted of the triumph
and defeat
In the turmoil of the market, and the flurry of the
street,
While the sunrise is my partner and the sunset is
my friend,
Though I haven’t gathered riches who’ll be richer
in the end ?
When I get by old St.- Peter, if I know enough for
that,
Not for any shining halo will I swap my battered
hat;
With the eherubims a-singing I’ll have little time
to sit,
And —well, Heaven won’t be Heaven if I can’t
knock round a bit.
WESTRALIA.
OSCAR WALTERS.
IF!
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“If you can smack her, good; if not, case hopeless."
—Alums Agony col.
If you can smack her, take mv tip and do it;
When the chance comes don't hesitate to spank ;
Not only, trust me, will you never rue it,
Hut me for this advice some day you’ll thank.
Contingencies, of course, I don’t lose sight of,
’Tis possible the lady may object;
Not all these foolish souls concede the right of
Their masculine possessors to correct.
For weapon I should recommend a slipper,
For time, the outbreak of the daily tiff;
She’ll be a better woman once you whip her
And if you can’t —well, virtue lies in “If” !
N.S.W.
EARDLEY TURNER.


IWtttfltts Wotel
cpn/pp oF
Quppnslanc/h
< Di'ShnPuishecl
Social L/Yp.
f
Magnificent Ballroom, Palm
Court, and Lounges at the
disposal of guests and their
friends at all times.
d
Suites de Luxe—double and single Bedrooms, with Bath-
rooms attached. Hot and cold running water and Electric
Fans in every Bedroom, together with every modern con-
venience for the comfort of guests.
TELEGRAMS & CABLES— LENNONS, BRISBANE.
TELEPHONE CENT. 5780 (IOLINES).
The Most Extraordinary
Watch of the Age—
THE FAMOUS
“Fx & R” WATCH
Open Face, 15 jewels, f-plate Lever, Oxidised Steel
Case,
Price 66/-
This watch is guaranteed for 15 years, and is kept
in order for 12 months (breakages excepted) free
of charge. It is specially suited for rough riding and
knocking about.
There is no better present for the man
out back.
Made in every style of case.-
Fairfax 8 Roberts, Ltd.,
The Oldest Jewellery House in Sydney,
23 and 25 HUNTER STREET.
PLAIN FIGURES. CASH ONLY.
Gentleman’s Full Size Open Face,
4-plate Lever, Oxidised Steel
Watch, 66/-
PERSONAL
ITEMS
Major-General SELLHEIM, the new Admin-
istrator of Norfolk Island.
Dr. W. J. Penfold, director of the (Com-
monwealth serum laboratories at Royal Park
(Melbourne), complains that Government
concerns devote too much time to routine
and not enough to research. As a young
man he left a nice income to become a poorly-
paid research worker in the English Lister
Institute, and he left that again to control
the serum mill at Royal Park. He has
found all his time occupied with red tape
and propaganda work. Now he goes to the
cumbrously-named “Thomas Baker, Alice
Baker and Eleanor Shaw Medical Research
Institute,” connected with the Alfred Hos-
pital. There he should be happy.
When Bill Campbell, second engineer of the
coal-boat Galava, lost off Terrigal (N.S.W.)
with seven hands, jumped ashore at Walsli
Bay from the rescuing tug St. Olaves, he
had only one thought in mind —to get homo
and relieve his wife of anxiety. He sprinted
up the steps to Lower Fort-street, where the
tug-owners’ office is, and got enough clothes
to make him presentable. Then he hit the
track for his home at Rockdale, pursued by
reporters but with a strong lead. Such
activity in a man who had been in the ocean
for 13 hours evidenced a stout spirit.
Henry Jones, of Tasmanian jam fame,
left £(52,834, the interest of which, after
£lO,OOO each is paid to the two youngest of
the dozen children, goes to the widow. The
10 older children are understood to have
participated in a family trust arranged by
the Jam King years ago. In one way or
another the family probably shares a
quarter of a million as the result of papa’s
successful business career. The estate pays
a little over £BOOO death duty.
Tip' hanging of Lord Denman’s portrait
in Parliament House, Canberra, recalls the
send-off he got in the old Federal House in
May, 1014. Cook’s Government was depend-
ing upon the vote of Speaker Johnson, and
the session was the most turbulent in the
history of Federation. On the day of the
farewell the messenger placed to guard the
mace felt he was entitled to sample some
of the good things going, and deserted liis
post. Two members who had been enjoy-
ing what the messenger was seeking came
along and hid the bauble, and others took
away the only existing copy of the “Speaker’s
Rulings.” Then there was a frightful row.
The mace was recovered, but whoever hid
the “Speaker’s Rulings” did it so effectually
that they haven’t been found yet.
Ivalgoorlie had few better-known citizens
or older residents than Charley Cutbusli,
who died in the Woorooloo (W.A.) Sana-
torium the other day. A Sydneyite, he
reached the Golden Mile early enough to
be the secretary of the first progress com-
mittee at Hannans, then mostly hessian and
corrugated-iron, in 1894, or thereabouts. He
saw it grow into the goldfields metropolis,
and was partner in a thriving business there,
or, at least, one that throve abundantly
till Kalgooriie started on the down-grade.
He became mayor in 1911, and had one or
two unsuccessful shots at Parliament. Besides
being a plucky, mining investor he was a
keen follower of most forms of sport, from
racing to pedestrianism.
It was appropriate that, instead of follow-
ing the usual traveller’s track, Winnington
Ingram, Bishop of London, should make his
first descent upon Australia by way of
Queensland. In the ’eighties, when Bishop
Webber, of Brisbane, wanted a chaplain,
Ingram was selected to fill the job, but
Bishop Maclagan, having other uses for the
young, man, vetoed the appointment. Although
Ingram comes of an aristocratic church
ancestry, numbering several bishops amongst
his forebears, he didn’t rush into the
shepherding profession. He spent three
years as a tutor before becoming a curate,
at 26. The man who was known
as “Chuckles” at school and college earned
laurels as Bishop of Stepney, working
amongst the poorest people of London with
a zeal, kindliness and tolerance that made
shoals of- friends. He had a birthday in
Queensland —his 69th.
After all Toowoomba (Q.) isn’t to be
turned into a special R.C. diocese. Rome has
resolved that the question of Queensland sub-
divisions must be considered comprehensively.
This decision has led to the appointment of
Michael McKenna, a young Brisbaneite, as
successor to Monsignor Fouhy, who died
years since. Educated at Mudgee Col-
lege and All Hallows’, McKenna has held
several important appointments, the most
notable of which was the rectorship of St.
Leo’s University, which on medical advice
he relinquished some time ago.
J. W. Leckie, who used to be member
for Benambra in Vic. Assembly and then the
elect of Indi in the Reps, has attached him-
self to the Vic. new Lib. party, and is
having a try for Kew at the election to be
held on April 9. His last venture was for
Upper Goulburn against Mackrell, but he
came a cropper. Leckie doesn’t seem to
think much now of his former political pals,
and they seem equally aloof as far as he is
concerned.
A. A. Billson, Independent Liberal mem-
ber for Ovens, who will retire from Vic.
public life owing to bad health on March
5, the day of the dissolution, has had a
good innings in the Assembly. Returned
first in 1900, he had only one toss, and that
was in 1902, when Ovens caught the Kya-
bramapootra infection. lie was restored
to favor in 1904, and has held the seat
ever since. Billson was in office under
Murray and Watt for nearly five years, and
was Assembly Chairman of Committees for
a similar period. Dave Allison, Cocky
member for Borung, is standing down for
the same reason.
A notable skipper of liners is Captain
Ilambelton, now in Sydney. His last com-
mand was the Olympic, and he had 32 years’
service on the fishpond. He was in the Wol-
lahra and Durisdeer and other wool clippers
that sailed to Australia 40 years ago. 11am-
belton’s last trip was to Port Augusta, then
a mere village at the head of the Gulf. He
took wheat, but if he had known as much
as he did afterwards he would have traded
off a cargo of Bibles and retired rich then
and there, the natives were so pious.
CRUSHED HUSBAND: “ You’ll regret this!
Some day the worm will turn!”
WIFE ( dourly ): “Well, if you ain’t a tetter
worm than you are a man you tetter not
try without a took of directions.”
Rheumatism is the Nemesis that awaits
those humans who are too fond of a fish-
like existence. It made a martyr of Fred
Cavill many years ago; but, in spite of it,
he kept on swimming. His floating baths
in Farm Cove, then the Botanic Gardens
gate, were the swimming resort of a younger
Sydney. Cavill started life in the navy,
his first employment being in royal yachts.
He was able to go with the Baltic naval
expedition 72 years ago, when the Crimean
War was raging. He swam the Channel,
to all intents and purposes—his friends
dragged him out about a minute before his
feet touched bottom —and then he came to
Australia. His Australian performances
included a swim from Parramatta to Sydney
and another from Glenelg (S.A.) to the
Semaphore. His six sons—four still live —
were all swimming champions.
Old Captain McArthur, harbormaster at
Hobart for 30 years or so, whenever he
boarded a ship to bring her alongside always
took out the day’s Mercury. He used to
say that he could judge the state of the cap-
tain’s temper, and consequently the state of
affairs in the ship, by the manner in which
the skipper received the offering. One day
he boarded an old tramp, rusty from truck
to keelson, that had come in to pick up
sleepers for China. The skipper took the
gift without a word, and old Mac had not
been long on the bridge before the skipper
wanted to know where his ship was being
taken to. He didn’t ask nicely either. Mac
revolted. “See that big building over there
by the quay?” he asked. “Yes,” grunted
the skipper. “Well,” says Mac, “that’s the
museum. I’m putting the old bitch in there.”
And the skipper took the count.
Thirty-nine years ago the elipper Swan-
more lay at Miller’s Point, Sydney. On
board was a young officer who is now com-
mander of the Runic —Captain Bulman, who
resumed running to Australia this trip after
a year’s absence. The cap’n has been 28
years in the White Star service and 24
years in the Australian run. And his smil-
ing Irish face doesn’t look much older than
it did when he took his watch on the Swan-
more.
Alec Peacock, Vic. State Treasurer, will
face his 16th general election for the Leg.
Assembly on April 9. He topped the poll
for the first time on March 23, ISB9. In
addition to his wins at 15 general elections
he was returned five times on taking office
in the Shiels, first Turner, second Turner,
Bent and first Watt Governments. Prior
to December 22, 1913, acceptance of Minis-
terial salaried portfolios entailed forfeiture
of seats and re-election to Parliament.
Speaker Bowser and Lands Minister Down-
ward, chosen first in 1894, have the next
longest continuous service in the Assembly.
Michael Kelly, who wears the R.C. archie-
piscopal gear in N. S. Wales, has his 77th
birthday this month. Over a quarter of a
century ago he became offsider to Cardinal
Moran, having previously been a missioner
in Ireland and rector of the Irish College
in Rome, where he had the ear of Leo
XIII. The Archbishop is determined to
have his perfect hour at the world’s Eucha-
ristic Congress in Sydney next year, when he
will open up a completed St. Mary’s Cath-
edral free from debt. He lives at the Hos-
pital of the Blue Sisters in Lewisham
(Sydney), and though cataract has blinded
one eye completely he is looking forward
cheerfully to the necessary operation—when
he can spare a minute from denouncing god-
less schools, mixed marriages and the dese-
cration of the Sabbath.
Donald Mackinnon’s “pilgrimage” to Vic.
Western and South-Western District on
behalf of the new Lib. party was not a howl-
ing success. Nobody turned up at Colac.
and a modest gathering at Warrnambool
hgd to suffice for that place. The late Big-
john Forrest, before he became a peer,
described Donald as a “kid-glove Liberal."
and he was not far out. The blatant oratory
that Berry and his satellites used effiectivel.v
when stumping the country is not encour-
aged in the circles in which Mackinnon
moves. And yet he held democratic I'rahran
for 20 years!
The just-dead John O’Grady, chief mes-
senger of the N.S.W. Attorney-General and
Justice departments, will be missed by the
Ministers, whom he protected from crariKs.
Suck folk are prone to fly off the handle
easily, but O’Grady had kissed the blarney-
stone, and he knew how to manage them.
One constant visitor for years was a curious
old lady with a very ancient gamp which
circled in the air when she emphasised her
arguments; her grievance was that some
vague enemies had cheated her of her rights,
which included the ownership of most of
Woolloomooloo. The one way of pacifying
her was to assure her that the papers had
been forwarded to the King for his personal
consideration; but she was suspicious, in
her worst moments, that even the King was
in "the conspiracy” against her.
The whistle blew for the last time for
11. Iliffe at Northcote, Vic., the other even-
ing. He drove an engine on the Darwin-
Pine Creek railway for 27 years and on the
Cairns line for 22. Coming down to Mel-
bourne on long-service leave, he attended a
reunion of old N.T. companions, but col-
lapsed suddenly and died at the early age
of 78.
Federal Works Minister HILL, who turned
the first sod of the Oodnadatta-Alice
Springs line.
Tuapeka County, in M.L., has been hav-
ing a jubilee. Lawrence, its centre, was
riotous in the goldfields rushes of a bygone
age. The County Clerk, John F. Woods, has
been with the council since its formation, and
it’s his jubilee, too. He has another claim
to fame; he composed the music for Tom
Bracken’s “God, Defend New Zealand,"
Maoriland’s national anthem.
“Echo”: I have no doubt “Deacon” (B.
3/2/’27) is correct in saying that Stephen
Burke secured his D.D. at an earlier age
than Edmund Sullivan (B. 20/l/’27), but
the big distinction I claimed for Sullivan is
that he obtained the two degrees, D.D. and
D.Ph., at 25.
SEEING THE ANIMALS.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“Mr. W. M. Hughes visited the State Parliament
House and occupied a chair behind the Speaker. He
looked so. scornful that none would have been sur-
prised to seb him pull a bun from his pocket and
offer it to the gathering on the end of his stick.”
-—Sydney Morning Herald.
“Shall I strew on thee rose or rue or laurel?”
0 brother legislators whom I see
In seats that once accommodated me,
Intent in ursine style to growl and quarrel.
Nay, buns you might more fittingly receive,
Such as to Zoo-caged bears the children heave.
Or would you rather scramble on the floor
For roasted peanuts as your guerdon meet,
Nuts such as strident cockatoos entreat
And parrots from admiring girls implore,
Nuts such as monkeys eat?
Did ever tinkling cymbals, screeching whistles
A more discordant pandemonium make?
My spirit shudders and my senses ache.
Your wreath, had I my way, would be of thistles.
The seemliest offering of terrene fruits
Surely, for you degenerate galoots
Whose brays and hee-haws to the ceiling rise
With such persistency, would be a bunch
Of carrots to replace your usual lunch,
Carrots that equine hacks esteem a prize
And grateful asses munch.
What shall I give you then ? That snarl staccato
From Hang, dull Baddeley’s bunk, Lane’s sputter-
ing rage,
There would evoke no tribute on the stage
Unless it were an over-ripe tomato
Or egg far gone in infamous decay.
Even a dog who’s had his earthly day
Or death-stiff cat could hardly symbolise
The passionate disgust, the scorn inspired
By sterile verbiage and insults mired
My tensely-held acousticon supplies.
S’truth! but you make me tired!
A sorry crowd I find in you, my brothers.
“Take at my hands this garland and farewell.”
Tom Henley palls upon me and Scott Fell,
I’d sooner hark to Ashton and Carruthers.
High have I climbed since first I won repute
Here in dead years—and fallen hard to boot,
But —blithering blazes ! —l’d as lief be shot
Or peddling periwinkles round the ’Loo
As listening to the yap and mag and rot
Of such a very ordinary lot
Of poor old fish as you!
N.S.W.
T. THE E.


■
:
'
w
CIGARETTES
OVAL HEAVYWEIGHT.
liiiiMWi
. i ■
*»m * *i
■I
■
■ ■ ■ ■■ •
+ s
am
/“‘“US” :
m §
■■i
WKOO-
- ■
’ ' ■>'.■■
' ; W|
MTm
■H
'
mm |
■
Si
*
■lll
mi


d
/
Look for (hr Trademark I Agent* Everywhere.
rile for Illustrated Catalogue.
The Ever-Ready Co. (Gt. Britain) Ltd.
163 Pitt Street, Sydney
READY
The Federal Mutual
CaQO'O’QD-CMi.
Insurance Company of Australia, Limited.
FIRE, MARINE AND ACCIDENT.
Licensed to accept liability under Workmen’s Compensation Act 1926.
AGENTS WANTED.
Head Office: 129 Pitt Street, Sydney.
it. IIAWNSLEY MOSS, Managing Director.
Victorian Branch: 360-66 Collins Street, Melbourne. .
H. L. CARROLL, Manager.
Queensland Branch: Federal Mutual Chambers, Queen Street, Brisbane.
NORMAN M. MAIR, Manager.
South Australian Branch: 36 Grenfell Street, Adelaide.
E. M. MINOGUE, Manager-.
SUPPORT THIS PURELY AUSTRALIAN COMPANY.
R. A. MANZIE, General Manager.
THE OLD CHAMPION
ď
On tlie 24th May,
1885,1 won a footrace
of 150 yards for £l5O
against Bill Gol-
lan of Warwick.
That started flf®
in business as a
Saddler, and
after over 40
years I caD
guaranies you
the finest saddle w
Australia.
Write for
book, full of interest.
my new
JACK WIENEKE,
371 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
434 QUEEN STREET, BRISBANE.
ABORIGINALITIES
MADE IN AUSTRALIA
“Matakitaki”: Bret Harte’s “heathen
Chinee” can’t beat the Maori for cunning.
A policeman in an out-back Maoriland village
was called on by Henare to eject a trouble-
some visitor. After a five-mile trip through
the bush, in heavy rain, the policeman
found a mild-looking little chap, slightly
under the weather, seated in Henare’s kit-
chen. Despite incoherent objections on the
visitor's part he was got rid of, and Henare
was soundly scolded by the John for bring-
ing him such a long trip, and asked why he
didn’t put the visitor out himself. “By
corry, no,” answered Henare, “he te Bairiff.”
* * * *
“Bisley”: Four years ago I was bitten by
two death-adders within a month, and it
is not my ghost that is writing this. On the
first occasion I was helping my friend Ken-
dall to put a 22-inch specimen into a collect-
ing-box and the adder got both of us, Ken-
dall on the wrist and myself on the ankle
after he had dropped it. He has since died
of poisoning, but it was injected through a
poisoned spear in New Guinea. The second
time was near Innisfail. Turning out of
the blankets at sunrise, I felt a sting on
the arm, where hung a death-adder, which had
to be literally lifted off. After treating the
bite, I rode 10 miles to the nearest house,
and was driven into Innisfail to the doc-
tor. His services were not wanted, however,
for I felt no ill effect other than a local
soreness that lasted several days. The cure
was a small incision with a razor, potassium
permanganate rubbed in, and the maintenance
of a calmness that kept the heart at its
usual beat.
“Kelby”: Let “Carisbrook, .Tun.” (B.
20/l/’27), cease to be apprehensive. If the
death-adder didn’t kill him in the first
week after the bite he can breathe freely.
The pessimists who warn him' of a slow
death 12 months later have no scientific
foundation for their belief. About the blis-
ters that appeared on his foot three months
after the bite. They have nothing to do with
the adder, and are probably a local skin con-
dition. A week s rest on a couch and suit-
able ointment will fix him up. However,
he’d better see the local medico.
* * * *
“Black Tracker”: I was
anchored fore and aft on the
Glenelg River waiting for
the bream to bite, when
there came sounds of a great
commotion from the mud-
bank opposite: A duck-hawk
was responsible; it had de-
cided to have a spur-wing
plover for its midday meal.
As it dived, the mob scattered
in all directions, but a victim
was selected and soon cut
out.. Then began a great
chase. Both were strong on
the wing, the plover a little
cleverer at dodging. Time,
after time it dived in
amongst its mates, only to
be driven out by its pursuer.
Being cut off from the shore,
the plover made a desperate
effort and headed for my
boat. A moment later it
had practically thrown itself
at my feet, where it lay with
outstretched wings and wide-
open mouth, gasping for
breath. At the same moment
the disappointed hawk settled
on the bow. I have seen
many ugly and fieree-looking
birds in my time, but this
beat all, and I had a smack
at it with my landing-net.
It watched the boat from an
elevated perch, and when I
lifted anchor it followed me
back to the landing. When
the coast was clear, I re-
leased the plover and, by way
of gratitude, it drove one of
its spurs into the palm of
my hand.
. Wcrnmee”: Many a dog of not much
.account gets reverent burial in the bush. One
giave I saw was on a sandhill at Fihdara
north-west ( N S. VV„ and had a cross with
fke name Bluey” tarred on it. Deceased
had belonged to an old shepherd, and was
coffined in a battered tin trunk to keep
Urn goannas away. Another grave, which'
had a slab at the head of it, was behind
the mens hut at Whittabranali, near Tiboo-
stone 2J' S ‘ W ' ) ' T !] e Ascription on the head-
,V T. suppo f e<d t 0 Ilflve been inscribed
after the bereaved owner had left. Anyhow,
t lead : Here lies _ Smooger, who wasn’t
much good when alive, and now he’s no
d— good at all.”
*** * ' ►
Morice : My bush-bred kiddies came
l!' )I [ TU \ 111 great excitement the other day.
u ei Vi "; ha ! d 0 you tbink? There is a
little bullock shut up in the yard near Dick’s
place.- We went in and took it some water,
and some grass, and it was as friendly with
us as could be.” I warned them of strange
animals, but they assured me that the thing
was as quiet as a ’possum, mother.” Three
days later a neighbor called with a big piece
ot beef. I-Ie had just shot his young bull
it was that savage I dared not go near it
I was lucky to get it into the yard near old
Dick’s place, but it near killed me the only
time I got inside the fence.” Now, how was
it that my four kiddies could do what they
liked with that animal? I know the man;
he is good to his animals; so it was not
ill-treatment that had made the brute so
COLLECTING HIS RENT.
savage. He nearly fainted when I told
him that the children had been in the yard,
daily, making the bull their plaything.
* * * *
“Emel” : Can the Council tell me how to
cure a dog of the habit of carrying off things?
Since my father bought him last June from
a passing trapper, this dog, who is more or
less kelpie, has spent his spare time carrying
off and playing with all articles of a size
convenient for him to lift. It was bad
enough when he confined himself to sticks,
but it’s beyond a joke when he carries off
files, chisels, dishcloths —he’s particularly
fond of these—scrubbing-brushes, hair-
brushes, slippers, even a cucumber from the
kitchen.
* * * *
“Riverina”: If Fairweather George has
not dried up like dead grass and blown away
lie may still be
spoiling tucker out
back in an aura of
confident piety. He
gained his nick-
name through an
apparently sincere
belief in the
Almighty’s particu-
lar regard for him.
“There’s alius fair
weather where I
am; the Lord sees
ter that,” he used
to assert. Once, on
a droving trip,
when George was
our cook, an out-
size in cyclones
wrecked his camp
and our evening
meal. Afterwards
someone twitted
him about li i s
alleged immunity;
but the pious one’s
faith was unshaken.
“That storm don’t
signerfy,” he an-
swe r e d compla-
cently. “It wasn’t
me the Lord was
aimin’ at. It was at yous flamin’ heathen
cows that was with me!”
* * * •
“Telor” : With reference to “Sucre’s” par.
(B. 13/l/’27) as to the excellence of
prickly-pear-fattened pork on the Cooper,
pigs eat the fruit of the pear only. This,
having a laxative effect, might easily kill
them if enough is eaten; it can certainly
never fatten them. Would it be unkind to
mention to “Sucre” that the nearest pricklv
pear to the Cooper is about 200 miles from
that watercourse?
*** • *
“Riverina” : Here is the true stow of a
strange bush mateship. At the beginning of
this century a pair of toilers known as the
Two Bills worked
about the stations
of Western River-
ina. One was a
cheerful, generous
soul, the other a
complete nark.
They tallied in no
essential except a
mutual thirst. We
who knew them
disliked the nark
and wondered at
the close compan-
ionship of such an
ill-assorted pair;
but the good-nat-
ured one sturdily
maintained th at
the other was ‘‘a
fine cove at heart.”
During a blucher
tour in Victoria
the cheerful mate
contracted pneu-
monia and died.
The nark saw him
planted, and imme-
diately after set out
for N.S.W. alone.
For more than 12
months he toiled
early and late at
contract clearing
and fencing, refused
to touch a drink of
grog, skimped him-
self for tucker and
clothes, and saved
like a miser. Then
he went south with
a big roll of notes
and spent every
penny of it on a
fine headstone and
fence for his mate’s
grave. This done,
lie returned per
boot to Riverina,
resumed his o 1 d
habits of booze and
argument, and be-
came, if possible,
a greater blanky nark than before.
* * * *
“Mako”: One of the most exciting sea
trips I ever experienced was made in a
launch at Russell (M.L.) when we were
out for a day’s kingfishing near Cape Brett.
As we came out of the Bay of Islands our
tiny ship was joined by a company of
porpoises. They staged acrobatic displays
for us with an enthusiasm that would have
been better justified had we owned the ton-
nage of the Niagara or Aorangi. As the huge
black things leapt out of the water, fre-
quently four at a time, it seemed to the
alarmed passengers on the launch that the
descent of a couple on the deck would cer-
tainly swamp their little craft, and the
sight of a big fish hurtling through space
above our heads wasn’t a bit reassuring.
When the creatures spied .a coastal steamer
ON THE WAY TO THE PUB.
DAD ( engaging taxi at Sydney station) : “You better sit next ter
th’ door, Dave, so yer can hop out and open the gates.”
and set out for something more worthy of
their exhibition, we were not in the least
offended.
* * * *
“Hayband” : A bqsbman once told me that
a good idea when cooking laughing-jacks (B.
6/l/’27) is to place a fair-sized pebble in the
water. When you can poke a fork through
the pebble, the game will be found to be
tender and juicy.
BLASTED IDEALS.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
One Sunday, ’bout a year ago, I cantered down to see
How life was treatin’ William on his model dairy
farm,
For we were sort of cobbers, young Billy Sykes and
me,
And I wuz always scary his ideals ’ud work him
harm.
He fair doted on ideals; he said we orter know
That animals have feelin’s just the same as you and
me.
He said that we can reap from them the treatment
that we sow,
And “Conquer cows by kindness!” was William’s
strategy.
He bought in all the outlaws from the other farms
about,
And reasoned with them kindly when they chased
him from the yard.
He’d never loose a curse at them, or fetch the
brutes a clout;
He sighed and rubbed in ointment when they kicked
him extra hard.
So when I reached his home that day it give me
quite a shock
To see him crouchin’ at the door, with hands clasped
round his head ;
The separatin’ wasn’t done, an’ half his dairy flock
Were heller) rf fit to bust theirselves outside the
milkin’ shed.
A TERRIBLE OVERSIGHT.
ISAAC: “Did you tale little Ikey to the doctor, Rchccca?”
REBECCA: “Yes, an' he says it's nothing but heart-burn."
ISAAC: “ Heart-burn! Mine gracious! ‘An’ we ain’t
got ’ini covered for fire risk.”
He wouldn’t answer when I spoke, he only give ‘a
groan,
And then I cussed at him, an’ coaxed, an’ flattered
him in turn,
Jntil at last he raised his head, and with a stricken
moan
He said, “My conscience tortures me; with black
remorse I burn.”
He said, “I’ve failed in my resolve.” He said, “To-
day I broke
My deepest resolution, that amounted to a vow”—
He waved his arms, his face was red, with vehe-
mence he spoke—
“ The blanky cow there kicked me, and I kicked the
blanky cow!”
There ain’t no dairyin’ done now on William’s model
farm;
He eats no butter on his bread, no milk is in his tea.
He punches bullocks for a crust, and says, “Well,
what’s the harm?”
When I tell him that his language and his methods
trouble me.
N.S.W,
SPADGER.


Great Bowling Achievement
Victorian Championship
For ten years the well-known
Victorian bowler, Mr. “ Mat”
Shelley strove to win cham-
pionship honors and failed—
realising at last that he was
handicapped by not using the
scientifically constructed and
balanced hard rubber
DUNLOP
•BOWLS
he changed over to them four
months ago. The most brilliant
achievement in his bowling
career followed, Mr. Shelley
carrying off the VICTORIAN
CHAMPIONSHIP from 606
contestants and won the final
by 21 to 3.
★ * * .
Are you handicapping yourself by not using
“ Dunlop”—the best bowl obtainable. These
bowls are supreme for quality, finish, balance,
and do not chip, crack, or alter in shape or
weight. The cost is moderate only £5 15/-
per set of four. Buy a set and see how
YOUR GAME IMPROVES ! Obtainable from
Sports Depots. Look for the brand “ Dunlop.”
* * *
DUNLOP RUBBER CO. OF AUST. LTD.
All States and N.Z.
‘■'V
■V
mm
? t
N *
i
■ ;* * ..
■
i
■P!
■
'A*
-j— »i
••!*
I_d
i ■
■ll9l
m
gggjr
: H
■
s-
■Hil 1
■
■Hi
M»» * ** * ,
11 V * * *> • . &
■ -' ;r *JHak
*V."' : ',.
■ra11i....... - - i :.• I i llllti ‘ i:i\ i f. m
■fl
«§
- <&
■
■ 1111
m
■
■
111
IBW
JG ;
■
_^lH
I||| jHN
mwbiiwwwibwbi
■ -.. n
bbBMBbI
pi
: ‘r-';^B-v;*,
sssiafs
faaJß—.
js 'B l ‘Q
«
v .._ WlW^»
;:; ® s l^®g»i
•/ , 22 .&,'"■ Wsmtr. •-• •• *if
■IBBIBMI
- <■ * . » - iiiS
■P
m
v t..',-P®
B
:■ - : B
■SMI
m
B
::
/ (
lli
■
H
H
■ ■■
■
H
■
■
IHi
■
■
BHBBHP^^!
H H


RANCE l
v '
COGj^C
aar-s\\
#SiS»wi»>/i?'
» 'JMOB* Jt,
3-itTrr;
rTrtVWWWWWWOWftw!?*
The only place in the world that
makes Cognac Brandy is the
Cognac district of France.
M artell’s comes from Cognac only .
Martell’s for Age and Quality.
MARTELLS
brandy
EDGEWORTH
HIGH GRADE
SMOKING TOBACCO
Australian Agents: R. TOWNS & CO., SYDNEY.
“Omega”: The “raining” tree mentioned
by “Coppertop” is not so uncommon as he
seems to think. There are several specimens in
Australia; the largest grows in Cairns
(N.Q.). This tree recently broke a three
years’ drought. The heaviest falls took
place in the early morning and from about
four o’clock until dark, and not in the warmest
times of the day, as in the case of the
Caboolture trees. The tree is the Indian
Main tree, and is a native of Peru. The
phenomenon is believed by some to be caused
by cicadas, which gorge on the foliage and
then exude what appears to be drizzling rain.
“Pick” : There is nothing out of the com-
mon in the “raining” tree of Caboolture. Trees
that grow in or near to the beds of dried-up
lagoons draw more water than they require
from the adjacent depths of oozy mud. The
superabundant moisture is shed in foamy
drips that exude from the twigs and leaves,
and plentifully sprinkle the ground below*.
Thus the weeping wattles along the western
shore of Lake George (N.S.W.) keep the
grass beneath luxuriant and green through-
out the driest seasons. When our sheep
barbering fraternity went on strike at the
Ribbenluke shed (N.S.W.) because the wool-
lies were too sopping wet to shear, subse-
MUST HATE BEEN A WIZARD.
“ Iss, mister, I been toilin’ ’ard for fifty-eight ’ear come now. I
started work when I wadden more’n nine.”
“Why, you are not sixty-seven, are you?”
“Lor’! ’Ow did ’ee find that out?”
quent court proceedings proved that for weeks
not a drop of rain had fallen in the locality
whence tney had come. As the musterers
did not volunteer the evidence that there
were several tree-fringed lagoons in the
paddocks, the finding was that the alleged
wet sheep must have been dry, and so the
barbers were nned.
“Sucre”: To be made wet by trees is
quite common. This perspiring business
I
IT WASN’T TITS FOWLS THAT STRAYED.
NEIGHBOR : “Is yer ’usband puttin’ up th’ barb-wire entanglements to stop yer fowls
from gettin' over?”
MISSUS: “No, dearie, th’ eggs.”
appears to be due to over-feeding mostly.
The moisture is bitter to the taste, and
leaves a red stain on white clothing. I first
encountered these dribblers on the banks
of the Condamine River, Warwick (Q.).
Seated under a scrub-apple tree, I was
astonished to get a trickle of water on my
face. There were no clouds in the sky, and
not so much as a cicada in the tree.
* * * *
“Sylvester” : Among hard timbers let me
name penda, that grows in the softwood
scrubs on the Bananaland South Coast. The
grain is interlocked and scrub-fallers there-
abouts carry a special penda axe with an
extra-thick face, as that of an ordinary axe
would soon fly to pieces in it. Scrub-
choppers shy at penda as they do also at its
botanical name —Xanthostemon oppositifo-
lium.
“Gouger”: The shark sports his pilot-fish,
and in Cape York Peninsula the bee has
hi s pilot - fly a
large insect, seldom
found far from a
nest. Binghi fol-
lows its flight from
tree to tree until
it circles round the
funnel-shaped hole
which adorns many
of the nests in the
extreme north. I’ve
not noticed the fly
eat the honey,
though possibly he
hops in when Bing-
hi has abandoned
the ravaged nest.
Of the native bee
there arc many
varieties, the honey
varying in quan-
tity and flavor. The
tiniest of all daintily
lines a hole in the
ground and therein
deposits a spoonful
of nectar. Wild
bees possess an in-
s t i n c t which
teaches them to
build in spots shel-
tered from rain.
I’ve sampled a nest
built into a busy
white-ants’ bed, and
anot he r in an
abandoued kin g-
fishers’ residence
tunnelled under a
creek bank. One
I did not sample
was built within
the sun-dried car-
case of a bullock;
another within a rotted boat flung far up on
the Gulf coast.
* * * *
“Borom” : When a rather unusual weapon,
consisting of a whip with a long knife con-
cealed within a loaded handle, was found
recently in the possession of a visitor to
Sydney/,from New Guinea, the police gave it
out that they suspected the stained point
of the knife had been impregnated with a
deadly native vegetable poison used in New
Guinea, very little of which was sufficient
to prove fatal. Actually the New Guinea
native knows no vegetable- poisons whatever,
the preparation of toxic substances of this
sort being confined to the Malayans in that
part of the world. In both Papua and the
Mandated Territory the sole method of
poisoning spears and other weapons is to
stick their points, generally made of fish-
bone or fine splinters of hardwood, into
a dead body and leave them there until
the process of decomposition is well ad-
vanced. They are thus made more deadly
than if prepared with the most potently
toxic vegetable extract, and their efficacy
lasts much longer.
“Wang”: I remember when a boy and
living back in the scrub an old chap who
periodically turned up at our place. He
was a venerable-looking party, and used
to impress the women particularly by his
devout bearing. He always carried a Bible
when he came to the house, and before
making any request for tucker dropped on
his knees at the kitchen door and, uncover
ing his head, offered up a prayer for the
inmates of the house. After this he opened
his Bible and proceeded to read from it. He
always scored handsomely in the matter of
grub and frequently in cash.
* * * #
“Allegra”: If I’m not too late I’d like to
tell “Simover” my cure for the Barcoo itch:
essence of peppermint applied to the part
affected with a small soft brush, three or four
times a day. After two or three days, twice
a day, morning and night, will be sufficient.
I)o not scratch or rub the part affected —
that’s very important.
“X2X”: I know of two cases in which
Barcoo itch has been definitely and perma-
nently cured by the ointment of mercuric
percliloride, applied night and morning to the
affected parts.
“Larrapinta”: I nominate the sugar-gum
as Australia’s utility tree. It will grow in
a loin, rainfall, and is exceedingly strong;
it takes a hurricane to break off its limbs
or uproot it; it grow’s rapidly, with a
straight, long trunk and clean limbs; it gives
more shade than most gums; the timber
splits freely for posts, and is exceedingly
durable; the limbs make first-rate rails; it is
as graceful and beautiful as any of the gums ;
and, last, but not least, it blossoms every
second year, and sugar-gum honey is equal
to any in the world.
* * * *
“Gregor”: Apparently conditions in Aus-
tralian waters incline towards the produc-
tion of “sports” and freaks. Recently I
saw a prawn, caught near Manly (N.S.W.),
which measured nearly a foot from tip to
tip, and was about five or six times the
ordinary size. Giant fishes of such species
as mackerel and yellowtail are fairly numer-
ous, and at intervals the fishermen come
across lobsters many times the normal size
These giant specimens are instances of
Nature taking a short cut towmrds the ulti-
mate type set as a standard of perfection.
There is as yet no explanation of the mechan-
ism by which this short cut is achieved.
* * * *
“Jesmond”: While walking on the beach
at Cowes (Vic.) the other evening I saw
a koala come down from the scrub, cross
the sands and several pools and wade into the
sea. He started swimming, and made good
progress towards French Island until he came
to the channel, over 40 feet deep; there the
last of the ebb proved too strong for him
and he commenced drifting. Finding he
could not make headway, he turned and
came ashore. It was a four-mile swim that
he had attempted.
* * * *
“Jimmy Possum”: Does thirst diminish
with age? We have a horse that has just
celebrated his 20th birthday, and the old
boy has to be chased out of a small house-
paddock every week or so even in this
weather before he’ll go for a drink. Two
younger horses running with him go for
their sip daily, and look hurt if they are
kept waiting at the gate any length of
time.
* * * *
“To W.” : Some young specimens of the
rare white-lipped snake (Denisonia coro-
noides) turned up recently in the far South
Coast of N. S. Wales. The snakelets were
about sin. long, body a very dark brown,
with almost transparent reddish-brown and
greenish tints on the belly: a darker color,
as in the adult, being visible beneath.
Along the side of the head, beneath the
eye, ran a line of glistening white, which
in the adult passed around the lips. This
snake, about a foot in length, belongs to
a venomous genus, which includes the deadly
copper-head, or large-scaled snake (Denisonia
superia). Nevertheless, there is no record,-
so far as I am aware, of a human being
having been bitten by a white-lipped snake.
The genus Denisonia, by the way, was so
called in honor of Sir William Denison, an
old-time Governor. It includes several
species, but only the copper-head, most
common in Tasmania, has achieved notoriety.
«• » « *
“X2X” : Tliere is no acquired or natural
immunity from malaria (B. 6/l/’27). The
most exhaustive tests and researches in prac-
tically every malarious area in the world
have shown that such a protection, either
racial or in the individual, does not exist, and
that people whose ancestors had lived in an
infected locality for countless generations are
just as exposed to the disease as are those
who come into it for the first time from a
clean area. In some of the malarious parts
of the southern States of America, children
who were known to be of the sixth and seventh
generations of families living there, and whose
members had always suffered from the
scourge, were taken to uninfected places
immediately after birth. When they were
brought back again, after periods varying
from weeks to months, the parasites were
found in the blood of every one of them with-
in 21 days. The best proof of the absence
of any immunity lies in the fact that exami-
nations of some large native communities in
MAKING THINGS CLEAR TO MURPHY.
MURPHY : “Oi see Mrs. Hindirson’s putting
up a noo verandah on her shtore!"
BUNG: “Yairs! Mrs. Henderson’s not done
too had. But, mind' yer, Henderson’s
a sight more clever’n wot she is —’ e's
laid the lion’s share of the golden eggs
they’ve got their hooks into.”
different parts of malarious Africa showed
that there was not a man, woman or child
who was free from the disease, although, pro-
bably, the communities had been established
there for hundreds of years. From the evi-
dence available it seems that the black races
never suffer from the complaint to the extent
that the white do, and that where a white
community is concerned the tendency of the
disease, unless vigorously combated by pro
phylactic measures, is to grow worse and
worse.
■* * » *
“Womba” : From my experience the only
way to draft wet and dry ewes in large num-
bers is on condition, and this is far from
infallible. Up-ending is the only sure plan.
AT THE NINETY MILE.
[FOR THE BULLETIN. ]
“It moves!” Of that there is never a doubt.
Before the onset old ways must go;
When Progress marches his legions out
Then we must follow him, whether or no.
Oft sadly shaken and sorely hit,
Still Time, the healer, may reconcile
Us all to the law that has now seen fit
To close the pub at the Ninety Mile.
When thick was the dust that the shakers made
Ere the stampers fell on the golden ore,
When the slv-grog shops did a roaring trade
In the care-free days we shall know no more,
With Clavpan Jimmy and Paddy the Dog
As our wise mentors we moved in style
On the path of Progress to better grog
In the new tin pub at the Ninety Mile.
The shakers are few on the flat to-day,
In their rusty boxes the stampers rest;
Still dreaming of riches, some greybeards stay—
It is death alone that shall end their quest.
But they will sit in the bar no more,
Telling old talcs with a quiet smile;
For the law in its wisdom has closed the dooi
Of the old tin pub at the Ninety Mile.
The law is wise, and the law is just,
And the march of Progress no man can stay ;
Though the shakers rot and the stampers rust
It still is marching by night and day.
“No longer needed!” the law declared—
Of facts and figures it quoted a pile;
But yet we think that it might have spared
The old tin pub at the Ninety Mile.
W.A.
OSCAR WALTERS.


SHOCK LOADS
are best taken up by
Roller
The rolling members in these bearings are so shaped that the contact areas on
the inner as well as the outer races are larger than those in a ball bearing. This
roller bearing has, therefore, an extraordinarily high carrying capacity within a
relatively small outside diameter.
The guidance of the rollers is absolutely exact; thus no injurious friction can occur.
The co-efficient of friction of SKP Roller Bearings is, therefore, almost as
small as that of ball bearings.
The Self-alignment is just as complete as in the Spherical Ball Bearing,
SKF carries a complete stock of Ball and
koiker Bearings of all International Standard Sizes.
This bearing is now largely used in Rail-
way Rolling Stock all over the world.
SELF ALIGNING
BALL BEARING
FOP NORMAL LOADS
SELF ALIGNING ROLLER
BEARING FOR HEAVY
LOADS AND SEVERE DUTY
f
■THE SKF BALL BEARING CO. LTD.
Melbourne: 595BourkeStreet.
Sydney: 45 King Street.
Adelaide: Win. Adams & Cp. Ltd.
Brisbane': Wm. Adams & Co. Ltd.
Perth: Unbchaun & Johnstone
(W.A.) Ltd. ■ ,
Launceston : W. H. Knight &
Peter Bros. Ltd.
Hobart: Charles Davis Ltd.
JS
Ob


Under
Royal
Warrant
Vintage 1917.
CHAMPAGNE
(MdleiiM
wmwmrn
Australasian Agents—
Swift & Company Limited
SYDNEY.
To H.M.
George V
CHampaCHC
Heims
PELLI3SON
Cognac Brandy.
lO YEARS OLD.
Australasian Agrents
SWIFT & COMPANY LIMITED, Sydney.
\
A
lyfflk
4jSk*
fi, |:
vfrit H
mm
l K
K
fcl'Mlli . •>-
L II
8W1361 for
Reservations.
Wentworth Hotel
Church Hill, Sydney.
SITUATED in a portion of old
Sydney, just a few minutes from
the Theatres, Shopping, G.P.0.,
Circular Quay and the Railway.
Attached to the hotel is the
famous Cafe, with its gorgeous
Palm Court, a splendid Dance
Orchestra and a sparkling Cabaret,
afternoon and evening.
Sydney’s Social Rendezvous.
Jk
nmmm
SYDNEY.
The Finest Restaurant and Dance
Rendezvous in Australasia.
PATRONAGE CONTINUALLY INCREASING.
Capacity: Dining and Supper Dances up to 1330.
For Wedding Receptions, Banquets, Dining and
Supper Dances, inquiries to Manager.
Mon., Tues., Wed., Fri., Dining de Luxe, 7.30,
10/6; Suppers, 10.30, 6/6. Value and satis-
faction without equal. No charge for three
hours’ dancing on satin-smooth spring floors —
a new thrill of real delight.
Thurs. and Sat. Late Gala Nights. Continental
Dinner from 7.30, 21/-. Suppers, 10.30. 12/6.
This evening in London costs £2/2/- upwards.
PEERLESS ORCHESTRA OF TEN.
Bewitching- Cabaret, afternoons and evenings.
Delightful Afternoon Teas, 3.30 to 5.30, 5/-
Two hours’ entertainment of Sheer Delight.
Order Wines before 6 p.m. Ring M. 5666.
A WOMAN'S
LETTER
SAY-
Kayser
SILK OF
CHAMOISETTE
GLOVES
Mrs. Foa, who, as Isabel Ramsay, was
well known on Sydney’s Inky Way, is return-
ing to Australia in May bringing her Italian
husband and cosmopolitan baby with her.
The youngster has already lived in most of
the countries of Europe, and with an Aus-
tralian mother, an Italian father and some
French ancestry its choice of National
Anthems is spacious, to say the least of it.
Pretty Nell Tritton won’t be returning to
Country Life. She went away last year to see
for herself if Europe was as good as it was
said to be. Now the cables tell us she was
married last week to a Russian singer, Niko-
lai Nadejin. The service was conducted by
Archpriest Timothreff in Russian, but Nell
is sufficient of a linguist never to have hesi-
tated in her part of the dialogue. There
were four best men, but no bridesmaid, and
the Brisbane girl and her husband were
invested with gold crowns as a finish-off to
the ceremony. One thing this Letter is
certain of, and that is no prettier bride was
ever inside that Russian church than the
Brisbane girl with the limpid eyes. Among
Nell’s early indiscretions were publishing a
book of verse and dancing with the Prince
of Wales.
The Rt. Hon. and Rt. Rev. Arthur Foley
Winnington Ingram, Bishop of London, will
have a mounted-police escort when he jour-
neys to lay the foundation-stone of the
Babies’ Home at Havilah on Friday. The
Bishop will divide his board and keep while
in Sydney between Government House and
his old friend Chief Justice Philip Street.
The rector of Paddington, Newton Stephen,
has asked the Bishop—by whom he was
ordained and under whose supervision he
worked in the slums of London—to lay the
foundation-stone of the new rectory at Pad-
dington ; and even as this Letter closes the
bachelor bishop is eating a midday snack
with the Millions Club.
The Great Synagogue staged one of the
dressy weddings ot last week, when Vena
Davis, of Bondi, married Fred Jacobs,
of Geelong. The bride’s frock was a dainty
affair of georgette, the skirt petalled and
outlined with diamente, the bodice short
and tight and embroidered with lily of the
valley. The tulle veil foamed into a wash
of train which was demurely followed by
four Early Victorian ’maids, designed like
Valentines, in silver-lace and pink crepe de
Chine. Sargent’s ballroom housed the fes-
tivities under the direction of the bride’s
parents.
Mrs. Arthur Popplewell, who died in
London last week, will be remembered grate-
fully by many A.I.F. men. Her London
house was once the home of Jenny Lind;
Mrs. Popplewell herself, before her marriage,
was Rosa Bird, a well-known singer. Sculp-
tor Tlieo Cowan once did a beautiful bronze
statuette of the lady in Court dress.
A little girl from Manly paid the memory
of her mother a pretty tribute when she wore
for her own wedding the complete outfit in
which mother had stepped as a bride, even
to the glove on the hand that rested on
father’s arm. The girl was Pauline Clarke.
The wedding frock was of ivory satin, thick
and rich ; it had a tight bodice cut with a
square neck and a Medici collar. There were
pearl-embroidered panniers to the toe-length
skirt and a full circular train fell from the
waist. The effect was that of a charming
old miniature, and bridegroom John G. Tay-
lor, of McMahon’s Point, and a crowded
audience at St. Patrick’s, Church Hill, testi-
fied their admiration in their eyes. The
bride’s father, Frank Clarke, was one of the
first batch jif Federal members ; the groom’s
father is solicitor J. M. Taylor, formerly a
member of the Public Service Board.
AT G. Steber > who manages the Bank of
N.SAV at head office, left last week with
Mrs. bteber per motor-ship for England
ami thereabouts. The trip across the world,
their third, will be only a short one, and
the pair expect to be back at their Mosman
home by the middle of our coming winter.
Nancy Marsden, the pretty singing girl who
is related to half Sydney’s socially known,
will sing her farewells at the Conservatorium
on March 8, prior to leaving with her mother
for Paris and further study. Margaret Chal-
mers, I rank Hutchens and Moore McMahon
are musical notables assisting.
A bride who kept to her own home
was Lois Gavel, of North wood. Under an
arch of pink and white roses, in a room that
was massed with roses and gladioli, the
bride murmured her vows from a mist of
Limerick lace, weighted by pearls and dia-
mente. The young man who responded
smartly to the queries on the matrimonial
subject of give-and-take and perpetual endow r-
ment put by Padre K. B. McDonald was
Frank Hall, of Condobolin. The bride’s
father, J. T. Gavel, handed over his lace-
enveloped daughter, while sister Dulcie sup-
ported her in an admirable mixture of blue
velvet and pink lace.
The meaning of a Cheshire Cheese lunch
was expounded at the Mary Elizabeth to a
group of Sydney writers on one of the hottest
days of last week. As long as the principal
dish is a lettuce adorned with blocks of
cheese, the sweets and drinks can be what
the hostess likes. It isn’t imperative even
that the cheese should come from Cheshire
or that the eaters should grin over it. In
fact, it was mostly delicious Bodalla, over
which the guest of the gathering purred, and
was purred at. The Society of Women
Writers (which is the sex’s inexpensive equiva-
lent of the Institute of Journalists) was
honoring Mrs. Leo Myers, who is a strong
support of the Lyceum Club. The visitor
to Sydney is a journalist with so far unful-
filled hopes of being a dramatist. Before
going to London she wrote for one or two
dailies in Wellington, M.L. Her speech in
reply to the nice things said about her by
President Mrs. Baverstock and Mrs. Aron-
son was bright without the terrifying rapier-
glint of wit. Forty she-scribes listened in, and
murmured admiring comments to one another
on the lady’s smart black bindings and lus-
trous pearls.
The testimonial concert which is designed
to enable Phyllis McDonald to continue her
studies at the Royal Academy, London,
deserves the support of every music-lover.
This brilliant young Australian, who, the
cables announce, has been engaged as soloist
both for the Bach Passion in the Queen’s
Hall and the Beethoven Centenary, has pro-
bably achieved more distinction while still
a student than any other musician who has
left Sydney. Four years ago Phyllis, then
not 15, quitted Sydney with a Royal Academy
Scholarship. At the end of two years she had
won so many distinctions that the Academy
offered her another two years’ free tuition.
Now it offers her another two years’ study.
But the £3OO with which the small girl of
15 faced the conquest of London is finished.
Unless funds are raised immediately, this
violinist, whose quality has so impressed itself
on London critics, will have to break off her
studies. George Portus, concert-manager of
Beale’s, will receive cheques, or sell you
tickets for the concert at the Conservatorium
Hall on March 1.
Freda Bage, whose photograph is sent to
this Letter by Brisbane admirers, has been
the Woman of
the Moment
in Sydney all
this week. She
is Principal of
the Women’s
College at-
tached to the
Brisbane Uni.,
and the depth
and extent of
her erudition
are only faintly
conveyed b y
the M.Sc. and
F.L.S. she is
entitled to
write after her
name. The
smiling lady
attended the
last Confer-
cnce of the
League of Na-
tions as an
alternate member, and found herself one of
seven women delegates. And that seems a
small proportion of the 200 delegates engaged
in the greatest talky-talk that has pro-
bably occurred since Babel. This year Ger-
many made her entrance bow in the person
of a forceful and clever woman doctor, Ger-
trude Baumer. She is an expert in child
welfare, a member of the Reichstag and of
the Ministry for Education. Hard work
is the corner-stone of the League, says
Miss Bage, and thrift is its password. Even
its magnificent new buildings are all paid
for. Poulsen’s studio presents this picture.
Freda Bage hadn’t to leave home to deliver
her speech to Sydney Uni. Women Graduates
on Thursday night. Women graduates, on
the other hand, came from all over the city
and suburbs to the vVomen’s College, where
the eminent one has been bed-and-break-
fasting while in Sydney. To the gathering
Freda discoursed of the Universities of Cen-
tral Europe, and of the grand freemasonry of
the Federation of University Women. She
found the link of membership unbroken
through Vienna, Budapest and Constanti-
nople. Miss Williams, principal of the Women’s
College, who hostessed the party, produced
three other celebrities from the pleats of
her old-rose georgettes. They were Dr.
Otto and Dr. Temant, from Esthonia (where
the cheap glass comes from), and Miss
Lynch-Staunton, of Girton College.
A clubhouse of considerable proportions is
to be built by the members of the Council of
Jewish Women, who have purchased a block
in Francis-street, near Hyde Park, facing the
building now going up for the Scottish
Masons. It is to be called “the Council
House?’ When Dr. Fanny Reading founded
the Council of Jewish Women, only three
years ago, the elders ofJJerryw r ry frowned, but
as the feminine body has given financial aid
to practically every Jewish charity in Syd-
ney, besides looking after a mothers’ clinic
in Palestine, it is difficult for anyone to
maintain the initial prejudice. The Council
House is to be a six-storeyed building, with
a roof-garden.
Plerewith George Taylor Rowe, who will
act as secretary of the A.J.C. during the eight
months of
Charles Crop-
per’s absence.
The name
Rowe has
been associ-
ated with rac-
ing in this
State since tht
early ’fifties.
Tiie grand-
father (an-
other George
Taylor Rowe)
was secretary
of the A.J.C.
when it first
raced at Rand-
wick. He mar-
ried a sister of
the De Mestre
who won the
first Melbourne
Cup and three
later ones; and was himself the owner of
the famous Veno that made turf history at
Flemington in 1857 by. beating Van Tromp
and Alice Hawthorne. The subject of this
picture has been assistant secretary for the
A. J.C. since 1900, and his father is the well-
known secretary of the Roseliill club. Photo
from Hall studio.
A Maitland tN.S.W.) woman, just back
from a European tour, includes among her
snapshots one of Wilhelm Hohenzollern.
While she and her companion were walk-
ing in the grounds of the ex-Kaiser’s home at
Doom, they met the exiled monarch walk-
ing with a friend. The Australians stepped
an and asked for a picture. Wilhelm was
willing, and stood to attention, hat in hand,
while the shutter snapped.
On Saturuay the King’s School kept up
its 96th birthday at Parramatta by collect-
ing all Old Boys available, playing cricket
with them, taking them to chapel, and enter-
taining them at afternoon-tea and supper.
Tea, served on the lawn in front of the head-
master’s house, is mostly for the benefit of
the female belongings of past and present
alumni, but supper in the evening is exclu-
sively for those who have worn the grey
and red uniform or been masters at the
school. The Old Boys put four teams into
the field, but only their third eleven scored
a win. The fourth match was between the
preparatory school, which is housed in Gov-
ernor Macquarie’s old residence in the park,
and survivals of the school’s distant past
who will never see 45 again. The under-
thirteens, who take their cricket seriously,
made 105 runs, and dismissed nearly half of
their mature opponents for 80, of which Gen-
eral Ilyrie contributed seven. This fixture
is easily the most popular part of the sport-
ing events. The service in the beautiful
chapel—recently enlarged as a memorial to
boys of the King's School who fell in the
Great War and in South Africa —was fully
attended, and Canon Cakebread, of St. Jude’s
at Randwick, preached the sermon. In the
evening the headmaster, the Rev. E. M.
Baker, entertained the Old Boys at supper
in the dining-hall. Of the goodly company
there were few who didn’t look regretfully at
the clock, and wish that it could be put back
anything up to 60 years.
By the Balranald arrived Miss Mabel
Winifred Guy, an English schoolmistress,
who has the most amazing collection of
travel posters in the world. She began by
cutting out pictures from magazines and
displaying them on sheets of green paper,
when the agonies of geography were being
suffered by her small charges. Instantly
the pained look on the faces disappeared,
and the lessons went forward apace with
the pictures as aids. That was three years
ago. Since then her collection has increased
till almost every travel route and country
in the world is represented. The Prince of
Wales added to it some posters collected as
lie travelled, Miss Guy will give an exhibition
in Sydney and in other Australian cities before
going on to M.L. Like a snowball, her col-
lection increases as it travels, but it cannot
grow too bulky, since the English public
schools are always borrowing from it, and
as the poster becomes more widely recog-
nised as an influence in education these bor-
rowings should increase.
From an Australian abroad:—
Melba told me before she left London that she
will give four concerts in Tasmania in March
because everyone was so nice to her when she was
there last tune The Victoria League Ball was a
huge success, although the Ritz charged the stiff
price of £2O for the rooms. More elderly women
danced than usual even these nights. Ladv Newnes
was in all white with a huge white feather fan,
held in her left hand behind her partner's back to
cleverly frame the back of her head—a most effective
pose. . . . Lord and Lady Stanley (he’s an ex-Governor
of Victoria) are being congratulated on their first
grand-daughter’s arrival.
People to whom a genuine article
of the Ming dynasty or a bit of old Wor-
cester is more precious than rubies intend
to give the uninformed Philistines an oppor-
tunity of judging the reasons for their enthu-
siasm. The first exhibition of the Applied
Art collectors will take place at Parmer’s
Gallery on May 2, and the collectors are
raking through their treasures for their best
exhibits. A society was formed last year
to secure the creation of a national collec-
tion, and this show will be the first public
move in that direction. The only public
assortment of the sort of stuff that makes glad
the hearts of virtuosos is hidden away in the
Technological Museum in dusty Harris-
street, in charge of C. F. Laseron, who can
tell the date and origin of any valuable bit
of china on sight. He is also the secretary
of the Society of Collectors.
The portrait of Professor Ernest Holme,
which the members of Sydney University
Union —the accomplished Dean of Arts has
been several times its president—intend to
secure is to be a bust in bronze; and the
bust will be the first work of sculptor Alfred
Gilbert seen in N. S. Wales. This creative
genius, who was responsible for the “Eros,”
one of London’s most prized bits of statuary,
at the height of liis success found some-
thing jarring on his artistic temperament,
and exiled himself to Bruges. He even
resigned the coveted R.A. in 1909. A few
months ago he reappeared in London as
unexpectedly as lie left it. The change from
portrait to bust is Professor Holme’s own
desire; he returns with the culture of Europe
thick upon him oil this day, the 17th.
Miss Brisbane’s week of weddings:—
When Eddie Cahill and George Brooke opened the
Theatre Royal with the first of their series of
recitals, an enthusiastic audience disturbed the
spiders. Brooke gave some 20 songs before he was
allowed honorable retreat and his Titian-haired
pianist was in capital form. Amongst the throng
in the theatre were the gaitered Duhig (in a box),
the Lieut.-Gov. and Mrs. Lennon, with Captain Plant
attending, the Cecil Palmers, Cadell Garricks, Nell
Douglas Graham, Mrs. M. Forrest and Kathleen
Forrest, Barbara Sisley, Mrs. George Brooke, Mollie
Brenan (back, from the Cold Country), I,yon Begbie
and other music-lovers.
The C.ameron-Hutton wedding took place in a
bower of white roses in All Saints’. William Cameron
is the son of Rev. John and the late Mrs. Cameron,
and Vida Hutton is the daughter of the G. G. Huttons,
New Farm. She wore ivory crepe de Chine, with
Richelieu ’broideries, and an embroidered tulle veil,
orange-blossomed, and she carried eucharist lilies
and roses. Rita Cardew ’maided in shell-pink crepe
de Chine, and pale pink tulle head-dress. She
carried pink rosebuds. The Bellevue spread the
wedding feast.
From the Bush comes word of the marriage of
G. H. Macfarlane, second son of the late J. H.
Macfarlanes, to Florence Deshon, elder daughter of
the F. A. Deshons, Baynham, Mitchell. All Saints’
kirk, Mitchell, was decorated by the bride’s friends.
The bride was in ivory satin with a cream Spanish
mantilla draped at the back. The cap-veil was
decked with orange blossom. Mrs. David Ewart,
Brisbane, had given the old ivory and lace fan and
the silver horseshoe which she carried. Jean Deshon,
in rose moire, ’maided. The bride’s parents arranged
the feasting, and the bride departed in honey-brown
marocain and a Shantung coat with Oriental touches.
Mrs. Frank Corrie will be welcoming home her
pretty daughter Mary, who has been for some years
in England with her husband, Major John Pain. They
expect to be in Brisbane in June.
Dean and Mrs. de Witt Batty were welcomed back
from the Cold Country at the Women’s Club rooms,
which were dressed in red and cream roses, by the
congregation of St. John’s Cathedral. Mrs. James
Stitt, in black and gold, received. Mrs. de Witt Batty
wore black silk georgette with Spanish lace and a
black scarf with an apple-green design. New
Orleans roses and zinnias were on the supper table.
Florence Micheli, Ruby Massey, Vera Parker and
F. S. Taylor made the music and elocution, and
there were two bishops, some canons and several
plain revs, present.
Ipswich, too, has had wedding-hells. In the
Central Congregational Church, Horace Williams, son
of the Frank Williamses, of Ipswich, took Doreen
Cribb, youngest daughter of the late J. C. Cribbs,
of Garowie, East Ipswich, for better an’ worse. The
bride was in shell-pink georgette and ivory mariette.
Her veil of Limerick was lent by Mrs. Eskdale,
Sydney. She carried water-lilies and stephanotis.
Eileen Brown and Mabel Wright ’maided in ivory
mariette. Norman Vincent was best man and Fred
Hooper groomsman.
Four new rooms at Linga Longa (Sandgate) have
been opened by the Queensland Countrywomen’s
Association. One is to the memory of the late
James McWhirter, senior; another was donated
by the metropolitan branch, and two have been
given by Cunnamulla. Members of the Redland Bay
branch are giving the electric light in the old rooms.
There were quite a number of women from Charle-
ville, Atherton and Cunnamulla present. Amidst
bowls of bright zinnias, the Sandgate branch pro-
vided afternoon tea.


BROTHERS LTD
Inexpensive Wedding Gifts
from Hardy’s
BA 8537.
This Vegetable or Chop Dish of Hardy’s
Silver-plate will meet ready acceptance for
its utility and long-wearing qualities.
The diameter is 8] inches.
36/-
.. A
BA 8543.
The lid of this handsome Entree Dish will
serve as a separate dish if required. The
length of the dish is 9f inches.
£5/5/-
m
BA 8545.
An oval Entree Dish of Hardy’s Silver-
plate is a necessity in every well-equipped
home. The lid serves as a separate dish
if required. Length 10 inches.
70/-
BA 8548.
A Chop or Muffin Dish, of Hardy’s
Silverplate, with removable lining
and hot-water compartment, will
solve your gift problem. Diameter,
7 inches.
34/-
BA. 8550.
You can safely give a Muffin or
Chop Dish of Hardy’s Silver-
plate, for a lifetime of satisfactory
wear is assured. Diameter, 7Jin.
Five per cent, discount allowed for Cash.
Hardy’s New Catalogue will be sent, post free, to any address.
HARDY
298-300
COLLINS ST.,
MELBOURNE.
BROTHERS LTD.
S& 7/ouse oP QkgLusivc, VeuxUay
13 HUNTER STREET, SYDNEY.
And at LONDON.
116-118
QUEEN ST.,
BRISBANE.
For the Term of His
Natural Life.
Many thrilling narratives have been written which have held the interest and
excited the imagination of the reader, bnt few have v reached the remarkable standard
set by Marcus Clarke in his famous story. It is impossible to describe the book
and do it justice; that can only be done by reading it. Those who have done so
may read it again and derive added pleasure from the reading. Those who have not
read it have indeed a treat in store. Every Man, Woman and Child in Australia
who enjoy the blessing of being able to read should not fail to take advantage of
their gift. In view of the great interest aroused by the filming of the story,
THE TERM OF HIS NATURAL LIFE has been issued in two editions, paper
cover costing 1/-, and cloth costing 3/6. Both of these editions may be obtained
at any of the branches or bookstalls controlled by the N.S.W. Bookstall Co., Ltd.,
Sydney, or may be obtained through the post. We predict the largest sales ever
recorded in Australia will be excelled by the demand for THE TERM OF HIS
NATURAL LIFE.
Price: Paper Edition, 1/-; Posted, 1/3
Cloth Edition, 3/6; Posted, 3/11
GET AWAY FROM THE OLD-FASHIONED
The Book of Australian
Bungalows.
Designed along lines to suit the natural Australian conditions, from the Week-
end Cottage, with its large, roomy verandah, to the substantial suburban House.
The Book of Australian Bungalows contains 90 Up-to-date Plans and Drawings
with estimated cost of construction carefully prepared for each Plan.
The main details are standard throughout, with the idea of having as little
waste space as possible; whilst the elevations have been designed along simple
lines.
The Book of Australian Bungalows.
The Work of two leading Australian Architects.
Price 5/-. 4d. Postage.
N.S.W. BOOKSTALL CO. LTD.
CASTLEREAGH AND MARKET STREETS, SYDNEY.
Your Health!
.
m®
Guinness’s Stout
*
mm
mm
■Sill
AUs
1759-1927
The World Over
OBTAINABLE
EVERYWHERE


g/ ".S4L?N?Lfo.
is lfic
ONLY
NON-SCRATCH
PHONOGRAPH
d
'Dfi.C Cre.<s.t
Tori Dal Monte
says it hHjmiLLOVS
obtainable
OINLY
Home Recreations l d
<3BB George St. Sydney
(°Pp Beo.rd WsJiOn'sJ
From Home
To Home
Melbourne
Stay at Melbourne’s '
most Central Hotel
An outstanding feature of Scott’s is its very
central situation. Scott’s is tastefully and com-
fortably furnished throughout, and includes every
modern time-saving and service-giving feature in its
appointments. Hot and cold water is available in
all bedrooms (many have private bathrooms
attached), and direct exchange and inter-
communicating telephones are installed.
Inclusive Tariff by Day, or Bed and
Breakfast Rate.
WRITE FOR TARIFF CARD.
Telegrams: “Scott’s,” Melbourne
\%
ALWAYS
ACCURATE
They keep time
all the time
SOLD BY
ALL JEWELLERS
"Right with the Sun.”
Melbourne
Chatter
Buckley's
Elizabethan
Tea 'Rooms
R[?] C[?] 800[?] [?]
Buckley [?] Nunn [?]
[?]
There were thrills enough at the first
day of the Autumn meeting of the V.A.T.C.
to frame an exciting movie scenario or make
a good bellowdrama. The collapse of the
star turn of the afternoon because Manfred
preferred to stay at the barrier rather than
shoot dust behind Heroic, and the failure
of various favorites to justify their selection,
were items. A feminine shriek just before
tne starting of the second race announced
something unusual happening, and flames
were noticed in the passage-way under the
new Guineas stand. The stand was
crowded with people, many sitting quite
calmly there, expecting that the outbreak
would be soon got under without much dam-
age. But they all had to move, and the
bookies got promotion for one afternoon, find-
ing a comfortable little possie on a back lawn.
For an hour or more Caulfield was like
a country racecourse, with thousands of
people swarming over the track watching the
conflagration, while the mounted police, the
starter and other officials made mad dashes to
clear the trespassers off when the gee-gees
were due for a sprint.
Fair patrons, fearing a recurrence of
Friday’s century and a bit, clothed them-
selves in georgettes and filmy upholstery.
Mrs. Clive Leonard’s fawn crinoline mil-
linery, which had embroidery of sprays in
dull gold beads, caused a flutter. Her har-
monising light apparel of the same hue was
finely tucked and had lace adornments. The
Tallis lady was in cool raiment, patterned
with brown and gold roses, amid a dash
of mauve, and topped by a rose-decked hat.
The Arthur Bullivant matron, from Narran-
dera, had palest green crinoline straw mil-
linery above a frock that harmonised witii
a blending of pink rosebuds. Mrs. J. Winter
Irving was smartly covered in white silk
with edging of black and green and a green
hat. Her daughter, Mrs. Geoff Heath, was
arrayed in light green, with a flower-
wreathed hat. Valerie Purves, soon to go
hence, was arrayed in pink, and her mother
was a symphony in sand tones. The 11. 11.
Smith couple; Mrs. Merson Cooper, with a
touch of silver brightening a black gown
and a chain of brilliant links banding a
black panne velvet hat; Mrs. ,T. Grice and
her daughter-in-law, Mrs. Claude Grice; the
H. S. K. Ward lady, Mrs. Woodford, the
Rogers-Thomsons and the Richard Linton
couple were also seen.
The Mayoress deserted her room at the
Town Hall in favor of the more commodious
Council Chamber when she held a farewell
rally of the womenfolk of aldermen and coun-
cillors to say good-bye to the Brunton lady
and Councillor J. W. Ferguson’s wife. The
council’s gardens and hothouses yielded up
tuber begonias of salmon-pink massed amid
delicate greenery and foliage plants, and huge
hanging baskets of lovely pink specimens
wore perched upon tall stands and draped
gracefully above the sandwiches and cakes
spread around on small tables. Out in the hall,
in a regular bower of greenery, a string orches-
tra played the most seductive airs of Arthur
Sullivan. Biscuit georgette relieved the smart
all-Havana brown turn-out of the hostess;
and Lady Brunton’s bouquet of orange tiger-
lilies blended perfectly with the floral georg-
ette that brightened her gown of black lace,
topped by a black satin hat. Mrs. Ferguson
held pink tiger-lilies against her ensemble
covering of black flecked with gold, with
which her millinery harmonised. Sheila
Morell’s pink vagabond hat was worn with a
navy blue georgette frock ribbon-embroidered
in a flowered pattern. The Garran, Massou,
Mitchell, Miller, Cuscaden, Mackay and Hen-
nessy ladies were there. Mrs. Chris Cowper
was hatted and dressed in oyster-grey. Silk of
Japanese patterning with bands of apple-
green and black was the distinctive covering
of the Hudson Eastwood matron. Mrs. W.
Bates topped her fair coiffure with a
geranium-pink hat, and yards of pink tulle
circled her throat and cascaded over her
black-and-white lace gown. Miss C. Coombes,
visiting from W.A., aired a sporty caped
suit of jumper mode of parchment-hued silk,
pleated and pin-tucked, with a dash of red.
A crimson hat was just right. Alison Fran-
kenberg was another chic frocker of the
younger set present. Mrs. H. I. Cohen and
daughter Yvonne, Mrs. Herbert Brookes, Mrs.
Benjamin Hoare, the Harry Emmerton lady,
the Misses Wray and Mrs. Cabena put in an
appearance.
The catchy melodies of “Kissing Time”
impinged on the walls of His Majesty’s on
Saturday night, and awakened echoes of a
not-very-long-dead past. There were some
changes in principals, but otherwise the fare
was familiar, and it proved as popular as
ever. Floie Allan tripped through the first
act in a white silk frock which relied for its
smartness upon two rows of holly-berry
buttons down the back. Margery Hicklin's
most dashing turnout was caped raiment of
grey that displayed a saxe blue lining and
same-hued hat. Thurza Rogers, in a froth of
white lace-edged frills attached to a corselet
of white satin, daintily tiptoed a measure
with her partner, Bob Lascelles. Robert
Best and his lady, with daughter Roberta,
saw the show from one of the boxes. Mrs.
Percy Blackbourn, Percy Deane’s wife, Dr.
Herbert Lillies, Mrs. Esmond Lillies, pianist-
harpist Hilda Roberts, Shirley Packer and
the Bloomfield couple were there, too. The
new comedian, Leo Franklyn, at the final
distribution of awards received a laurel
wreath as big as a horse-collar.
The Theatre Association of Victoria has
got into harness again, and announces a
production early in March of T. C. Murray’s
“Autumn Fire,” which was an offering of
last year’s London theatrical season. The
piece will be staged at a special matinee at
the Princess Theatre, and the proceeds
will be collected by the Berry-street Found-
ling Hospital. Mrs. Montague Cohen has
arranged all the side-lines, and George T.
Arnoldt, the honorary organising secretary
of the T.A.S., is business manager of the
production.
Geoff ery Gibbs and his wife, who arrived
by the Chitral, propose to make Melbourne
their home for an uncertain period. A son
of Baron Hunsdon, lie has come out to look
into the business of his firm, Gibbs, Bright,
Ltd. Mrs. Geoffery has a second-hand
acquaintance with Australia through her
father, C. F. Leslie, who was a member of
Ivo Bligh’s team when it came out to play
cricket in these parts.
When Stradbroke governed in Victoria
he was esteemed a “sport.” His sister, Lady
Angela Fane, has just published a book
called “Chit-Chat,” which contains some
chats that fortify the impression Australia
got about the brother. An ancestor, Admiral
Rous, was one of those acute Englishmen
who saw, as soon as they landed, that Aus-
tralia had enough land on it to stand a race-
course. Victoria has done justice to the feat
in the Rous Memorial Stakes, which is run
on Newmarket Handicap day.
Pictured here by Lafayette is Nancy
Guest, the Gallery student whose picture
“The Fortune-Teller” gained her the travel-
ling scholarship which is awarded every three
years by the
trustees of the
N.G. The lass
had already
won the Ram-
say portrait
prize and
awards for
half-nude and
head studies.
Bernard Hall
and his associ-
ates gave her
permission to
compete for
the 1926 schol-
arship though
she was 18
months short
of the course
of study usu-
ally prescribed.
Miss Guest,
who shortly
goes abroad, is
the first artist in the family. Her only
brother is Dr. J. V. Guest, and her sisters
Margaret and Dorothy are Arts graduates of
Melbourne University. She took lectures
there, too, but discovered in time that she
could draw.
Flinders Naval Base has been in a state
of feverish activity for weeks past. A gen-
eral clean-up was undertaken in honor of
Captain Hubert Dannreuther, R.N., who,
with his wife, stepped ashore from the Chitral.
Even the fowlhouse didn’t escape the white-
wash bucket. The new man knows some-
thing about naval stunts. When the Invin-
cible was blown up he was one of the few
to come undamaged through the air, though
it was the first time he had grabbed a joy-
stick.
The Alan Currie acreage, Ercildoune, is
likely to be one of the places that will snare
the Royal pair on the trek from Adelaide
to Melbourne. Mrs. Currie is country vice-
president of the A.W.N.L., and her home
and grounds are reckoned to be the beauty
spots of the district.
The Women’s National League had a full
house at the Masonic Hall when the Prime
Minister and his wife were given tea and
cake and minstrelsy. Muriel Cheek was the
principal singer, and Mrs. 11. S. Crocker, the
just-resigned president of the league, directed
proceedings. Mrs. Bruce, who looks wan
and thin after her hustle across the world,
uttered her thanks for kind words and a
sheaf of gorgeous gladioli.
Air-force blue was a lot in evidence at
the wedding at St. Stephen’s Presbyterian
Church, of Amy, only daughter of the A. J.
Weller couple, of East Malvern, and Flying-
Officer Eric Winslow Woodward, whose late
father owned Ellangowan station (Q.). Three
bridesmaids wore frocks of varied shades of
pink, with black millinery charmingly con-
trasting with the ’groom’s retinue of brother
fliers in blue. White satin and Limerick
lace was the bride’s attire, enhanced with
a veil of antique lace and a posy of water-
lilies. There were rejoicings afterwards at
the Chastleton.
Girls of the
Geelong branch
of the Presby-
terian College
will miss Lacy
Shaw, here
pictured b y
L afayettc,
w hen term
resumes. She
lias been their
vice - principal
for the past
five years. In
future she will
occupy the
p r i n c i p a i’s
seat at Bal-
larat Presby-
terian Ladies’
College. She
graduated at
Brisbane Uni.
The ceremony that surrounds a Greek
wedding was witnessed here the other day.
The bride, clad in silver and white brocade,
a vision of dark-eyed, olive-skinned love-
liness, was a daughter of the Archi-
mandrite of the local church, one
Demopolous. Archbishop Knetes, of Syd-
ney tied the knot. Both prelates wore
gorgeous copes, and the tall, black head-
covering with heavy drapery flowing down
the back. The entire ceremony was chanted,
male choristers intoning psalms almost con-
tinuously. Towards the conclusion of the
ceremony both ’groom and bride were
crowned with wreaths of orangebuds having
streamers of white ribbon, and with the
attendant ’maids marched three times around
the little altar headed by the groomsmen carry-
ing lighted, decorated candles, while the
archbishops scattered confetti upon the
happy pair. When the two had been passed
the chalice of wine congratulations were
offered, first by the clerics, then by relations
and friends. Kisses were in order, and the
bridegroom got almost as many as his bride.
A recently-announced engagement is that
of Phyllis Ward Thomas, youngest daugh-
ter of the vicar at Marshall, Victoria, and
Robert Knowles, who has lately acquired
station property in Queensland. He is sec-
ond son of Vice-Admiral Knowles, who is
a baronet and lives in England accordingly.
Miss Ward, who is an open-air lass, is a
niece of Mrs. John Buchan, of Studley Park,
Kew.
When Keith Healing, second son of the
A. G. Healing couple, of Kew, endowed
Eileen Mary, daughter of the late A. C.
Bruton, and of Mrs. Bruton of Camberwell,
with all his worldly goods, the bride wore a
white and silver gown with a train of silver
tissue and a soupQon of pink. Marjorie
Healing and Joyce Cliallingsworth brides-
maided in roseate frocks and millinery. At
No. 9, afterwards, Mrs. Bruton greeted guests
in a black gown glimmering with steel and
silver.
An English parson, visiting a country dis-
trict of the Speck, was so struck by the latent
capacity of the vicar’s daughter that lie pro-
posed to take her back with him and give her
a Continental education. When the pro-
position was put before the old lady, her
mother, it met with a cold reception. “What,”
she said, “send a girl of 15 to the country
where all those convicts came from! I
wouldn’t hear of it!” This seems a new way
of looking at the dear old birthstain.
This one comes via India. He was a
General inclined to be pompous. It was
Christmas-time in France, and the night very
cold. A unit under his command was leav-
ing for another sector, the men being com-
fortably entrained and ready to start. The
General approached a carriage, opened the
door, letting in the wintry blast, and cheer-
fully remarked, “Men, your Corps Com-
mander wishes you a merry Christmas!” A
sleepy voice from the gloom replied, “And
Sir Douglis ’Aig wishes you’d shut that
door.”
Mrs. Lewis Lett, with her two children,
is again here on a furlough from
Papua, and is for a time at Beaumaris. She
is best known in Melbourne as Mollie Ilon-
man, daughter of the late Colonel, who
during the Big Fight was attached to No. 5
General Hospital, Caulfield; later he went
to Italy and France to study the making of
artificial limbs, and finally was P.M.0.,
Rabaul. Mrs. Lett’s 10 years’ experiences
in Papua have been varied ; for her husband,
who is a brother of contralto Phyllis Lett,
had first a copra plantation, and lately has
been working a timber concession within the
delta of the Purari River. His wife has
been the only white woman for 180 or
-00 miles around. She says the servant
problem in Papua is getting very much like
our own, since the native prefers the high
lights and companionship of Port Moresby
to the monotony of the life in the country
where native villages are few.
Peter Mcßride's widow, who gained
swarms of friends by little acts of kindness
while her late husband was Victoria’s Agent-
General, was recently called on to assume
another of the duties of citizenship. On
returning to London, where she now lives
with Captain and Mrs. Fisher, her daughter
a summons awaited her to attend as a juror
at the Lord Chief Justice’s court. And all
her pleadings for exemption failed.
An Aussie writes from Paris that it is a
fashion of the fair sex over there to be
replendent in jewels—diamonds the size of
peas, and pearls reaching the dimensions of
pullets’ eggs. The baubles are not taxable
and everything else is. A reasoned argument
on the subject may be found in “Gentle-
men Prefer Blondes.”
The Lawn Tennis Association of Victoria
is losing an enthusiastic member in Mrs.
H. V. McKay, whose lord has bought a
corner of Narrandera, N.S.W., on which
to disport his flocks and herds.
Mrs. L. .T. Wrigley said the farewells to
Mrs. T. A’Beckett, the president, and Mrs.
Oswald Syme, a member, at a meeting of
the Lyceum Club the other night. Mrs.
A’Beckett will attend the International .Con-
gress of Lyceum Clubs in London in June;
and will represent the Federal Council of the
Australian Women Graduates’ Association
at a University hobnobbing in Vienna. At
the good-bye gathering musical fare was sup-
plied by Muriel Campbell with her fiddle,
and by Wilmer Barnard, who sang to the
accompaniment of Ada Freeman. Mrs. 11,
A. Woodruff, who went to Japan with her
professional husband lately, gave a talk about
the ways of Nippon.
Miss Hobart sends some jots and tittles:—
The G.-G., who made the crossing in the Sydney
in time for the Hobart regatta, went on the wallaby
with his son, a couple of gent.-helps and a few
packers. C. M. Pitt, Surveyor-General, was the guide,
and Matilda was taken from Lake St. Clair to Gor-
manston, on the wild west coast. From there the
party motored to Queenstown, where the Murrays
sheltered them for a few days. Franklin and his
wife tramped over part of the same route 82 years
ago, and narrowly escaped starvation, being held up
by bad weather till their rations ran very low. From
then till now no Governor has attempted the tramp.
St. David's Cathedral was the scene of a gathering
of the leading clans of the Speck, when Phyllis
Mary Downie and Ronald McGregor Gunn made
their bows. The bride’s gown was of parchment
heautg crepe, embroidered in gold diamente over
gold lace, with train of gold tissue draped with
Tambour lace (first worn by her grandmother). A
coronet of orange blossoms and heather topped the
long tulle veil. Sheila Parsons, Grace Stops, Alison
Gray and Betty Sales followed in frocks of apricot
taffeta shot with pink, and pink tulle head swath-
ings caught at one side with a gold rose. Mrs. John
Downie received the guests at the Imperial in a
gorgeous gown of delphinnium blue silk under
blue silk net, a-glitter in jet and sequins, shading
from blue to blacde, and jet fringe. The going-away
turn-out was a creation of ashes of roses, georgette,
crOpe de Chine and grey foxaline.
Sister Adelaide finds something to chatter
about:—
The Howard Davenports, due back from England
in the Ulysses, have postponed their sailing— the
reason is the grave illness of Mrs. Davenport's
mother.
Lady Bridges, who is Melba’s guest at Coombe
Cottage, broke her journey for a day or two at
Poltalloch, the Keith Bowmans’ station on the Lakes.
She was at Tattersall’s Victoria Park meeting on
the Saturday before she left, coated and furred, as
were most of the women there, and with a tall-
crowned hat.
The estate of the late George Melrose, sworn at
£BO,OOO, is to be administered by his widow and
Mr. H. W. Lloyd. A son of the late James Melrose,
he was in France for most of the war and brought
back an English bride with him. He died at
Brighton, early in the year.
Returned voyageurs include Miss Katie Lucas, who
has been in England for the best part of a year. A
good deal of her time was spent with Lady Buck-
land, formerly Miss Christine Barr Smith.
The Children’s Hospital has added to its assets a
sewing circle which will work under the aegis of
the Red Cross Society, and is being largely
recruited from the Lady Mayoress’s Red Cross
sewing circle of Great War days. Mrs. C. R. J-
Glover is its president, and she has as treasurer
and secretary Mrs. L. S. Kither and Mrs. C. Coles.
The Government promises to begin its women’s
hospital as soon as the site (on Frome-road, at the
back of the main hospital building) is cleared by
the removal of other offices temporarily housed
there.
Kindergarteners fortified themselves for their year’s
work by a tea at their training college in North
Adelaide, with Miss King as hostess. Guests numbered
50 or so, all of them graduates or students, and
many of them in charge of free and private kinder-
gartens in and about this village.


.
13
£7
1
H
" IS
: : I
Hi
■
Brummonb & Co.
“THE HOUSE FOR PEARLS
344-346 Collins Street, Melbourne.
Specialists
in
Fine Pearls
Pearl
Necklaces
Earrings.
Drummonds are
at present dis-
playing an un-
usually large selection
of fine Pearl Neck-
laces in wide range
of tint and lustre.
Strands of small
graduated bright
Oriental Pearls, with
white gold snap, can
be obtained from £5.
Larger strands range
from £2O to £5OOO.
A comparison of
quality and value is
invited before pur-
chase.
A Selection of loose
Round Pearls of
finest quality is
always maintained
for adding to cus-
tomers’ own Neck-
laces.
UNDERWOOD
Portable Typewriter
gssßS
mm
A
m
For a Feu) Pence a Day...
For an outlay of just a few pence a day you can own the
world’s finest portable typewriter and enjoy the many
benefits it confers. You can use it with profit and
pleasure at the office, at home or while travelling. It
will reduce the time of your written work by half, give
you extra hours for leisure and recreation, and prove
itself a real friend in dozens of ways.
Use the Coupon to obtain a
copy of our illustrated descrip-
tive booklet. No obligation is
incurred.
Stott & Underwood Ltd.
9-11 O’Connell Street, Sydney.
The Underwood Typewriter Agency,
91-93 William Street, Melbourne.
Post to G.P.O. Box 1556 E Sydney, or 91 William Street, Melbourne.
Pd lilce full details about the
Underwood Portable, without
obligation, of course.
Bulletin 17/2/’27.
NAME
ADDRESS
A. SAUNDERS’
DIAMONDS
A. Saunders’
Two-Diamond
Octagon-shaped,
Platinum-set,
18ct. Gold King,
£2O.
A. Saunders’
Fine Diamond
Ring, Set Plati-
num, 18et. Gold,
£7O.
■
A. Saunders’
Diamonds, Octagon -
shaped, Platinum
18ct. Gold Rinj!
£2O.
A. Saunders’
Single Diamond,
Octagon-shaped,
Platinum setting,
18ct. Gold Ring,
£2O.
A. Saunders’
Diamonds, Fancy
Platinum Setting,
18ct. Gold Ring,
£2O.
FIRST QUALITY,
SPECIALLY SELECTED,
FANCY PLATINUM SETTINGS.
\ -vd
or>w-©5 jsl rYV
A. Saunders’ Fine Diamond-set 18ct. White Gold,
Jewelled Lever Watch, Silk Wristband, £32/10/-
Guaranteed.
A. Saunders’ Three-Diamonds, Octagon-shaped, Plati-
num-set, 15ct. Gold Bar Brooch, £2O.
A. Saunders’ Single Diamond Knife-edge Bracelet,
£4O.
Smaller Diamond, £2O, £3O.
" 11
A Saunders’ Single Diamond Octagon-shaped Plati-
num-set 15ct. Gold Brooch, £5.
Larger Diamond, £7/10/-
A. Saunders’ Fine Diamond-set 18ct. Gold, Jewelled
Lever W’atch, Silk Wristband, £l7/10/-
Guaranteed.
A. Saunders’
Three-Diamonds
Octagon-shaped,
Platinum Setting,
18ct. Gold Ring,
£25.
A. Saunders’
Single-Diamond
18ct. White Gold
Ring, £l5.
mm
A. Saunders’
Diamond Button-
cluster, set Plati-
num, 18ct. Gold
Ring, £25.
A. Saunders’
Five Diamonds,
set Platinum,
18ct. Gold Ring,
£l2/10/-
A. Saunders’
Diamonds, Fancy
Platinum-set, 18ct.
Gold Ring, £2O.
Sent Per Regd. Post Free.
A. SAUNDERS
Watchmaker —Jeweller —Optician,
805-813 GEORGE STREET (opposite Railway Station), SYDNEY.
TO EUROPE IN 1927!
MAKE YOUR TRAVEL ARRANGEMENTS WITH
THOS. COOK & SON
Railway, Steamship and Tourist Agents,
ESTABLISHED
PASSAGES
1841 165 BRANCHES.
Booked by All Lines at Tariff Rates.
Monthly Sailing List Issued Post Free.
TRAVELLERS’
CHEQUES
Issued in Sterling and Dollars, in Notes
of £5, £lO, £2O and $lO, $2O, $5O, $lOO.
INCLUSIVE
INDEPENDENT
TRAVEL
Tours arranged, including Hotel, Sightsee-
ing and Excursions. Any Route. Class of
Hotel and Travel optional. Itineraries
Prepared.
INCLUSIVE TOUR IN EUROPE 50 Days for £BO
Pleasure Cruises to the Norwegian Fjords.
Motor-coach Tours in Great Britain.
ESCORTED TOURS IN EUROPE,
Visiting
ITALY - - SWITZERLAND - - FRANCE - - BATTLEFIELDS
BELGIUM - - HOLLAND - - and GREAT BRITAIN.
Fares include
Travel, Hotel, Meals while Travelling, Transfers between Stations
and Hotels, Sightseeing, Excursions, Gratuities, Fees, Guides and
Experienced Conductor.
Automobile Tour de Luxe from NAPLES .... 49 days, £396
Select First-class Tours from MARSEILLES .... 71 days, £302
Select First-class Tours from NAPLES 66 days, £283
Popular Escorted Tours from MARSEILLES ... 53 days, £179
Popular Escorted Tours from NAPLES 48 days, £166
Moderate Escorted Tours from LONDON 46 days, £124
DETAILED PROGRAMMES ON APPLICATION,
Monthly “TRAVELLER’S GAZETTE” Post Free.
THOS. COOK & SON
MELBOURNE:
269 Collins Street.
SYDNEY:
Martin Place,
(Opp. G.P.0.).
ADELAIDE:
49a Grenfell Street
AUCKLAND:
N.Z. Insurance Building,
Queen Street.
WELLINGTON:
Government Life Building
(Next G.P.0.).


ABRIDGED PROSPECTUS.
Liivoleum Manufacturing Co. of Australia Ltd.
(Registered under the Companies Acts of the State of N.S.W.)
NOMINAL CAPITAL - £.150,000
Divided into 75,000 8% p.c. Cumulative Participating
Preference Shares of £l each, and 75,000 Ordinary
Shares of £l each, of which:—
75,000 Cumulative Participating Preference Shares of £1 each are now
offered for subscription, payable 5/- per share on application,
5/- per share on allotment, and the balance in calls of 5/- per
share per month.
The said Preference Shares are issued on the following
conditions:—
(1 ) The holders of such Preference Shares to be entitled to
a Cumulative Preferential Dividend of 8 per cent, per
annum upon the amount for the time being paid up or
credited as paid up thereon; also to fully participate in
additional profits with the holders of Ordinary Shares
after a dividend of 8 per cent, per annum is paid on the
amount paid up or credited as paid up on such Ordinary
Shares.
(2) Such Preference Shares to also be preferential as
regards return of Capital and to share in surplus profits
and assets on return of Capital with the Ordinary Shares.
40,000 Ordinary Shares of £1 each fully paid up shall be issued to the
Vendors in part payment of their consideration.
35,000 Ordinary Shares of £1 each to be held in reserve.
150,000
The Directors will proceed to allotment on the receipt of applications
for 30,000 Preference Shares.
DIRECTORS:
BENJAMIN FRANCIS MARKS, Director United Wire Nail Co., Ltd., Waterloo, N.S.W.
WILLIAM JAMES McKINNEY, Merchant. McKinney House. O’Connell Street. Sydney.
ERNEST MAJOR. Governing Director Major Bros. & Co.. Ltd., Cabarita, Sydney.
CHARLES MORGAN. Investor. 16 Giles Street, Toorak, Adelaide, S.A,
GEORGE WILLTAM PERCIVAL CREED, Managing Director G. W. P. Creed Pty.,
Ltd., 16 Flinders Lane, Melbourne.
BANKERS:
NATIONAL BANK OF AUSTRALASIA, Head Office, 342 George Street, Sydney.
SOLICITORS:
SEPTIMUS G. ROWE & CO., Rickard House, 84 Pitt Street, Sydney.
AUDITORS:
T. W. HARRISON, SON & KNOX, Public Accountants, Dalgetv’s Building, 15 Bent Street, Sydney.
BROKERS:
F. 0. FURNER & CO., Members Sydney Stock Exchange, Sharebrokers, 115 Pitt Street, Sydney.
GENERAL MANAGER AND SECRETARY:
TRESCO G. ROWE, Australia House, Carrington Street, Wynyard Square, Sydney.
REGISTERED OFFICE:
AUSTRALIA HOUSE, Carrington Street, Wynyard Square, Sydney.
Objects and Proposal of the Company.
Tlie Company lias been formed to purchase for £90,000 the whole of the assets,
including Freehold Property Vendors recently acquired as a going concern by them from
the English, Scottish and Australian Bank, Ltd., as Mortgagees exercising power of sale.
The Works are situated on the Duck River, at Auburn, near Sydney, N.S.W.
The buildings and plant are of modern design, and are practically new, and at the
price at which they are being acquired will constitute a remarkably favorable purchase.
Assets Acquired.
Messrs. F. I. W. Harrison, Son & Knox, Public Accountants, certify that the assets
amount to £105,437/11/4, and when the PREFERENCE SHARES are fully paid up
they will have assets worth £l/14/9 for each £1 subscribed.
Estimated Profits.
The profits (without allowing for taxation) on an output of 15,000 yards per week
have been certified to by the Company’s Auditors at £ 28,000 per annum. The factory has
produced more than this quantity per week.
The amount required to pay 8 1 per cent, dividend on the Prefci'ence Shares and
Ordinary Shares is only £ 9200.
Points for Investors.
(1) This is the only industry of its kind in the Commonwealth.
(2) The factory is in working order, and is now producing.
(3) The sale of its output is assured. Repeat orders in the past have been received
from such firms as Beard. Watson, Ltd.; Bebarfalds, Ltd.; Grace Bros.;
Paterson, Laing & Bruce, Ltd.; and others; and also State and Federal
Government Departments.
(4) The importations of linoleum into the Commonwealth total £1,303,723, and
the estimated production of the Company is only 10 per cent, of the Common-
wealth consumption.
(5) The establishment of secondary industries is beneficial to the country.
(6) APPLICATION HAS BEEN MADE TO THE FEDERAL GOVERNMENT
FOR A DUTY ON PLAIN LINOLEUM. WHICH CAN BE MADE IN
SUFFICIENT QUANTITIES TO SUPPLY AUSTRALIA’S REQUIRE
MENTS.
(7) Preference Shares are secured by £l/14/9 worth of tangible assets.
(8) The experimental stage, which cost the old company over £45,000, is now
passed, and the new company starts operations on a dividend-paying basis.
(9) The labor item is a small proportion of the total cost of production.
(10) In its initial stages the old company’s recovery of good linoleum was as low as
14 per cent., hut at the time it wms forced to close down its recovery of good
linoleum was over 90 per cent.
Contracts.
Agreement, dated 9tli February, 1927, between William James McKinney, John Frank
Cox and Lillian Emma Bain, with Linoleum Manufacturing Co. of Australia.
Ltd.
Underwriting Agreement, dated 9tli February. 1927. between John Frank Cox and Lillian
Emma Bain, with Ernest Major, John B. Tavlor. R. H. Collerson, James
Nield. Charles Morgan, Robert Tulloch, William Rowell. Septimus G. Rowe
and F. I. W. Harrison.
Agreement, dated 9tli February, 1927, between William James McKinney, John Frank
Cox and Lillian Emma Bain and Australian Linoleum Co.. Ltd. (in liquida-
tion) and Alfred John Rowland Parsons, liquidator.
Underwriting Agreement, dated 9th February, 1927, Benjamin Francis Marks witli
Linoleum Manufacturing Co. of Australia, Ltd.
Important.
As 33,500 Preference Shares have been underwritten, and a large number already
applied for, early application is advised. The Company has been registered and allotment
is assured.
FORM OF APPLICATION FOR CUMULATIVE PREFERENCE SHARER.
To the Directors,
LINOLEUM MANUFACTURING CO. OF AUSTRALIA, LTD.,
Gentlemen, —I hereby make application for 8 per cent, Cumulative Participating
Preference Shares in the abovenamed Company. I enclose my cheque for £ , represent-
ing application money at the rate of 5/- per share, on the above number of Shares. /'request yon
to allot to me the above number of Shares upon the terms of the Company’s Prospectus dated
bth February, 1927. and I hereby agree to accept the same or any smaller 'number that may be
allotted to me, and to pay 5/- per share on allotment and the balance per Share in calis as
provided by the said Prospectus, and I authorise yon to register me as the holder of such Shares
Further, I agree that you shall be entitled, at your absolute discretion to refuse to make any
allotment to me in respect of this application, in which event the amount, of application money
enclosed shall be returned, to me in full.
I also agree to be bound by the Memorandum and Articles of Association of the Company
All cheques to be made payable to Linoleum Manufacturing Co.. 0 f Australia Ltd and for-
warded to Mr. Tresco G. Rowe, Secretary, Australia House,' Wynyard Square, Sydney or to
the Company’s Brokers.
Dated this day of
Signature
Occupation
Name in full (-1/,-., Mrs. or Miss)
Address
Note: Exchange must be added to Country and Interstate Cheques. B. 17/2/’27
A copy of the Prospectus can be obtained by applying to the Secretary Mr TRESCO g
Secretary, Linoleum Manufacturing Co. of Australia, Ltd., Australia House ‘ Wynvard Square'
or the Company’s Brokers, F. O. BURNER & CO., 115 Pitt Street. Sydney Send for one'now
ROWE,
Sydney,
2$
818
mmm
m&m
J
NOT MADE DOWN TO A PRICE
It is NOT POSSIBLE to produce
more VALUABLE Tennis Ball.
n
kj
Every BARNET,GLASS TENNIS BALL Stitched
. and Stitchless: All Court is Manufactured in ~
Ik. accordance with the A
Compression Standard
as well as every other standard
k of the International Lawnd
Tennis Fedei ation.
TRADE MARK
S X
FINE CHINA CAN BE
FINE AS
m
DURE in form and whiteness, Shelley Dainty
* White China forms an unrivalled embellish-
ment to any table, relying as it does on its own
daintiness without any assistance of colored pat-
tern, relief being given to the perfect body by well-
balanced and carefully-thought-out embossment.
Obtainable in Tea. Breakfast and Coffee Sets, and
a variety of pieces for the table, etc.
Look for the Trade-mark “Shelley” on the base
of each piece; it is your guarantee that it is
genuine English Bone China.
Obtainable from all Mgh-class stores and Pottery
dealers. If any difficulty, write for name and nearest
stockist to our Wholesale Representatives,
TW HEATH & COL
limited
232 . Clarence St Sydney & Commerce diouse. (Melbourne,
CHINA


£
WL
TTie TOP-NOTCH Scotdt
r
fr'> 2$ 'Say WHEN Man!!
\
1 •
s«*
For They are Jolly Good Fellows.
RESCH’S
LAGER, DINNER ALE,
PILSENER & STOUT.
RESCH’S
BITTER ALE,
AUSTRALIA’S BEST BITTER.
And so say all of us.
Western Australian Distributors:
BURNS, PHILP & CO., LTD., PERTH AND GERALDTON.
[i
SPORTING
NOTIONS
Melbourne on Saturday was like a large
chop on a griller surrounded by smoke and flame, and
to be in the picture the Guineas stand at Caulfield
decided to catch fire a quarter of an hour before the
second race. Punters were so intent on the important
business of the day that they had to be shooed off
the burning structure by tiie police. The flames
subsided when there was nothing left to burn, and
the rest of the meeting proceeded . with stand fre-
quenters wandering disconsolately - about the -ground
and the blackened pile frowning on , the scene like
a symbol for blasted hopes, or a fingerpost for book-
makers pointing to Heaven, or something of the
sort. The stand cost between £60,000 and £65,000.
and was insured for little more than half that
amount.
Rampion was ,so nicely handicapped in the Bond
Cup—Bst. 81b. was not much' of a burden for the
best colt of his yean—that Fred Williams naturally
advised the Briens to give him a run. Unfortunately
the race aggravated a minor injury, and the dual
Derby winner has been relieved of his V.A.T.C.
Futurity engagement. Whether he will start in
the V.R.C. St. Leger is still in the air; certain it is
that no pains will be spared to get him to the post
for his easy task. Six to four for the Bond Cup,
Rampion made every,.post, a winner and was never
in trouble. Raith (12 to 1) was second, a length
and a half away, and Lanson (25 to 1) was half
a length behind Raith. The Oaks winner came home
strongly, and if the colt is not in the St. Leger
the filly may succeed.
The betting on the St. George Stakes was 6 to 4
on Heroic, 2 to 1 Manfred, 15 to 1 bar two. Man-
fred’s price was ridiculously, short, considering
that Lewis was not in the saddle, and that the
bay hadn’t raced since October, -whereas Heroic had
had two public outings within a < few weeks; and
those who had taken the 2 to 1 felt very foolish
when Manfred was left at the post with Dempsey.
However, Heroic did not have matters all his own
wav. Pantheon put up a fine race, and Heroic had
only three parts of a length to spare at the finish,
nor did Cairns seem to have much up his sleeve.
Spearfelt was third, three lengths astern, the time
for the nine furlongs being lmin. 55,’sec. Heroic
went out of favor, to some extent, for the New-
market, but his price firmed again on Monday.
Sydney’s hopes, as far as the Oakleigh Plate was
concerned, were transferred' at the eleventh hour
from Chrystal to Fuji San. The bookmaker-owner
of the litter put £4OOO on the son of Valais and
brought his price down from 12 to 1 to favoritism
at 3 to 1. Fuji San fought out a great finish with
the outsider Baringhup (20 to 1) and was defeated
by a neck; Whitta (16 to 1) was a close third and
Chrystal (8 to 1) a late-coming fourth. Poison,
the trainer of Fuji San, lodged a protest against
the winner for boring at the turn, but as the horses
did not touch the stewards refused to alter the
judge’s placings. As a result of his honest race,
Fuji San has come into increased favor for the
Newmarket, for which Matthews is alleged to have
backed the gelding to win him £40,000. Baring-
hup was a maiden before her success in the Oakleigh,
wherein she ran the 51 furlongs in lmin. 6-}sec.
She is by Ethiopian (imp.) from Orvieto, and is
owned bv J. and D." Smith, trained by H. W. Gabell,
and was ridden by H. Knevitt. The filly showed
great gameness in holding off Fuji San, who got
on terms at the distance, and is now well in the
betting on the-Newmarket, in which, with a 71b.
penalty 7 added, she*will carry 7st. She had the
minimum weight on Saturday and the runner-up
carried lO.st. 41b.; at Flemington he will have 9st.
131 b.
* * * *
Glenariff, a fine upstanding chestnut colt
by Valais—Bunee (dam of Belgamba), who brought
3800 guineas at the last Easter sales, greatly pleased
the critics by the style in which he won the Nursery
Handicap, 51 furlongs, at Rosehill on Saturday.
Backed downto 5 to 4 in a field of 24, he seemed to
have little chance at the turn, where six or seven
youngsters were in front of him. But, getting a run
on the rails, he came through like a racehorse and
won handsomely; Welina, who paid nearly 16 to 1
on the grandstand tote, was second, and Rosso third.
Glenariff looks and gallops more like a Derby colt
than any other youngster that Sydney has seen this
season. He is trained by W. Kelso (whose apprentice,
Jack Ooutts, rode him), for John McCaughey, brother
of the man who left a quarter of a million for the
education of Diggers’ children. Other horses that
impressed at Rosehill were Hemisphere (4 to 1),
who unwound a capital finishing run in the Dundas
Handicap, for which there were two better favorites;
Fool’s Paradise, Otway Falkiner’s Maoriland purchase,
who, backed from 6 to 1 to 5 to 2 in a division of
the Flying Welter, beat 11 opponents pointless ; and
Octember (6 to 1), who confirmed the good opinion
formed of him at Canterbury Park by donkey-licking
some fair-class horses (Donald and Sea Risk were
among them) in the February Handicap, 10 furlongs.
This improving son of October-Elizabeth Bentley is
decidedly a Sydney Cup possibility.
“Ike Mcßagg”: Our Federal capital
climbed on the racing map with a mixed meeting last
Satterdee. Several of the profession attended to pick
up some easy card-money for the train journey home,
but encountered an unnerving contretemps. Five
names were hoisted for the pony race, and, with their
usual openhandedness, the boys offered 2 to 1 th’
fee-uld. The appearance of only three prads at the
tape was a severe shock, so after the race, in which
one of the cows had been left at the post, it was
sportingly decided by the ring to call bets off, and
even refund punters their money. The winner’s mob
objected, and the committee decided that all debts
should be paid. Some of the lads weren’t taking any,
and d’ye know what they did? Why, paid th’
narks out of the deposit money each of us had to
plank down with the club before being allowed to
field. Starve the crows, but this is a hard world!”
***■•’
“F ull - Choke” :
Post-war taxation has
cut heavily into pre-
served shooting in Eng-
land, and many estates
once famous for game-
preserving have been
subdivided or have
passed into less sport-
ing hands. The result
has been a surprising
adoption of the Ameri-
can system of club or
syndicate shoots within
reach of London and
other big cities. Such
syndicates hire or lease
estates suitable for the
purpose, and have ev en
converted hitherto un-
used areas into game
preserves; these are
looked after by a man-
ager, often the original
owner or one of liis
family, who engages
and supervises keepers,
arranges for beaters,
and so forth. The mem-
bers of the syndicate
or club motor out from
town, have their Lit of
butchery without hav-
ing to worry over
details, and then get
back to their affairs,
leaving their manager
to do the rest. The
idea has caught on
tremendously, and im-
poverished landholders,
with hitherto jobless
offspring, are blessing
its introduction into
rural England.
“Sunny” Jim Williams (12st. 2£l’b.) is no
longer a favorite with the Sydney fans, and there
was only a moderate crowd at the Stadium when he
walloped George Thompson (12st. 41b.) for the
second time-—they have met thrice. Thompson fought
gamely—too gamely for his own physical good—but
he hasn’t a punch capable of hurting a thick-skulled
negro, and Williams held him safe from first to
last. The white man was on the floor eight times
altogether, being knocked right out of the ring
in the 14th. A right to the temple, high up, sent
him down soon after the 19th had started, and this
time he was counted out. Williams might have
ended it sooner, but he took no chances.
* * * *
Those patrons of art who saw the return
quarrel between Gavino de Leon (9st. 211 b.) and
Jack Jones (9st. 91b.) at Melbourne Stadium
were impressed with Jones’s speed. He burned up
the ring space in a way that would not have shamed
Tim Banner, and sometimes when Gavino caught up
the Leeklander let go with both hands in sheer
desperation—and landed. By such methods Jack
collected the points until the 18th canto, when
he was floored for a short count. After that he
turned sprinter again and, keeping yards in front
of the field, he ran out a points winner.
The sculling championship of Australia,
an event which would once have had the continent
on tiptoe with expectation, passed almost without
notice on Saturday, when the holder, “Snowy” Burns,
beat Tom Saul. The race was rowed on the Tweed
at Woodburn, Burns winning by three lengths in
22min. Isec., a slow race, accounted for by the
fact that the tide was against the scullers. Burns
showed improvement in style, and is already being
tipped as a coming world’s champion. Like George
Towns, he is in the pony class, scaling only 10st.
31b., but is a beautiful mover.
“Slide”: There was a strong savor of Hollywood
publicity in the reported “disappearance” of Major
Goodsell, the world’s champion sculler, who is
stunting in U.S.A. It was suggested in Sydney
newspapers that the young man had been kidnapped
by Mexican bandits, who were demanding a ransom
of anything from 5000 to 10,000 dahlers from Good-
sell’s friends in Sydney. The friends were openly
sceptical, and said they would await further details
from America. Then a message came through to say
that Goodsell had been traced to Seattle, where
he was doing a turn with a vaudeville show; and
the papers set out in search of another sensation.
“Major,” by the way, is the youth’s Christian
name, not a rank won on the field of battle.
* * * *
“Lytt” : In this matter of motor-racing at
places like Maroubra, N.S.W. (B. 10/2/’27), there
is room for the exercise of common sense. At present
the results of four-wheeler racing prove nothing. The
winner may be the cleverest or most daring driver;
his - car may be the most efficient or the most
powerful for its weight and cylinder capacity, but
there’s always a doubt. Everybody who knows
anything about it knows that it is possible to build
a car which, on a suitably-built track, will very
nearly double the best record ever put up at
Maroubra. And everybody who reads the newspapers
knows that any car that gets near the 100-mile-an-
hour mark on Maroubra is apt to run off the track
and impale its driver on something that will kill
him. I suggest as an alternative to a positive ban
on motor-racing on circular tracks the trial of a
system that has provided in quite another arena
some of the finest sport ever seen —I mean the
racing of standardised machines. It is done in
yachting with splendid results. Why not confine
four-wheeler racing to cars of identical design—
they needn’t have a cylinder capacity of over 1000
c.c.—standardised in every respect? In such cir-
cumstances the best driver (which involves being
the best mechanic) would stand the best chance of
winning. With such a limitation on power speeds
would not be likely to rise to a fatal pitch—the
sort of ’bus I have in view would need superfine
tuning to exceed 80 miles an hour—and there would
be an undoubted practical value, from an engineering
standpoint, in discovering just how much efficiency
could be got within narrow limits of design and
power.
Tassie, the Speck’s wonderful 21ft. class
yacht, added to its laurels by 7 the manner in which
LIKE MELBA ,
REPORTER : “I believe this is going to be your lust appearance in
the ring.”
CHAMPION : “Yairs, but I might ’ave a few farewell scraps, like
Melba.”
it won the Forster Cup., run off the Semaphore,
Adelaide, for the third time jjp succession. The
Cup is decided on place points in three heats; but
the Tassie, after winning the first on Saturday,
beating the Caress (Q.) by 7 minutes, settled all
doubts on Monday by romping ever the 12-mile
course in the record time of 5 hours smin. 36sec.
Seeing that it was a record, the Queensland boat,
which came second again, did well to be only lmin.
19sec. behind the winner. Skipper W. P. Batt
designed the Tassie, which he loves like a child:
and his hard-bitten crew are men- who know how
to use every ounce of breeze to the advantage of
a boat that is equally at home on choppy or calm
seas.
The week-end announcement by Vic-
torian J. B. Hawkes, that it would be impossible
for him to leave Australia to play in the Davis
Cup ties, cuts Australia out of a chance to compete
in the famous world tourney this year. It had
been suggested that a team composed of Patterson,
Hawkes, Willard and Moon should go to Wimbledon
and France, and compete in the Davis Cup ties
later. Patterson stated that it would be useless to
send a team unless Hawkes could go, so the matter
may be considered 'as definitely disposed of. There
are compensations, for the Australian “heads” were
showing a disposition to accept France’s offer of
financial assistance for the European tour, and to
hint that alms from the English L.T.A. would be
gratefully received. If Australian tennis authorities
cannot send four amateurs overseas without accepting
help from the coffers of her adversaries, this country
had better remain unrepresented.
“Cash Amateur”: Suzanne Lenglen, like
most of her type, is a good hater. When she turned
pro. after her artistic temperament had left the
Wimbledon authorities cold, she threatened to
sprag the -wheels of next year’s English champion-
ships at the famous lawn-tennis centre. Now
promoter Charles Cochran says he is arranging for a
big professional tourney, which will include Suzanne, in
the Albert Hall, dates being arranged to clash with
the big Wimbledon fixture. Someone with a very
slight knowledge of English temperament has sug-
gested that after Suzanne has made a pot of money
by touring South America, the Orient and Australia
she intends to apply for re-admission as an amateur.
To do that, England’s consent —which is Wimble-
don’s-—will be necessary, and even if the French
witch of the racket abandons her notion of presenting
a counter-attraction to the English championships,
she has Buckley’s chance of ever getting that.
* * * *
“Jacky Roo” : The only “find” during the
Country Tennis Week in Sydney was L. J. Hill, of
Moree, erstwhile skipper of the Oxford Uni. tennis
team. Hill, a tall and powerful youngster, gave a
dashing and finished display in the final of the
mixed doubles, his volleying and smashing at the
net being particularly brilliant. It will be a pity
if he isn’t encouraged to appear in first-class tennis
more frequently.
“Amateur Pro”: The cabled news that
Ty Cobb, the veteran American baseball star, has
signed a contract carrying a salary of £12,000 a
year should make some of our lawn-tennis and
cricket amateurs sigh enviously. The size of the
screw tends to contradict the theory that golf_ is
knocking the stuffing out of baseball gates in America.
The salary is the more remarkable since Cobb is a
“batsman and field” in cricket parlance. Most of
the big baseball salaries in the past have gone the
way of the pitchers.
* * * *
Queensland accounted for Victoria in the
final Sheffield Shield match at Brisbane, the
northerners having 234 runs to the good. Queens-
land’s second innings realised 439, the principal
feature being a dashing 144 from E. Knowles’s bat;
having contributed 40 in the first innings, Knowles
can claim to have made good in his first Sheffield
game. Hon Oxenham, batting with a sprained wrist,
added a 73 to his first-innings score of 104, while
(fill (40), Grant (36) and Mayes (37 n. 0.) also helped
themselves against an attack weakened towards the
end by the absence of Blackie. Hendry (3 for 51)
was Vic.’s least unsuccessful bowler. With 742 to get,
Ponsford (116) and Hendry (137) made a brave
start, and Baring (73) and Millar (64) did their
bit, but the last three wickets went cheaply. Horni-
brook’s return to big cricket was a decided success,
the left-hander taking 6 for 137 in 43 overs. Ron
Oxenham’s bowling was sadly' missed by Queensland
in Victoria’s second knock. The result makes South
Aus. a present of the Sheffield Shield —the Wheat
State’s fourth win since the series began in 1892-93.
W. H. Ponsford heads the season’s averages with
the thumping figure of 136.37 for eight innings and
a highest score of 352. He is the only batsman with
a four-figure aggregate, having totalled 1091. A.
J. Richardson tops the South Australian list with
67.44 for nine knocks, while Allan Kippax, with
88.8, occupies his usual place at the head of the
N. S. Welshmen. Wicketkeeper L. O’Connor leads
the Queensland batsmen with 69.44 for ten innings
and a highest score of 196. The best double of
the series is Ron Oxenham’s batting average of
57.11 and a bowling average of 18 wickets at 17.22
each, though Charlie Macartney, with 49.60 and
10 wickets for 12.50 each, runs him close. Blackie,
of Victoria, took most wickets, 33 for 24.63, followed
by Grimmett (30 at 34.33), Williams, also of S.A.
<29 at 32.27), and R. McNamee, of N.S.W. (27 at
29.96).
The first Maoriland cricket XI to tour
England will lack Hiddlestone, the best bat in the
Dominion, who cannot go, but otherwise the team
is representative. The names of the pioneers are:
Allcott, Dacre, Mills, Dempster, Lowry, Blunt. Loge,
Cunningham, Oliver, Merritt, James, McGirr, Bad-
cock and Henderson. Most of these players were
seen in Australia last season, and on their form
here the team should do well. Lowry is the ex-
Cambridge wicketkeeper who came out with
Maclaren’s amateurs in 1922-23. Cunningham, a
fast-medium bowler, made an impression on Aus-
tralian judges, and English conditions should suit him.
The choice of Merritt, an 18-year-old colt who bowls
“bosies,” has been a surprise, but the selectors
are to be commended for giving a promising young-
ster a chance to mature in big games—a heresy no
Australian XI selector would dream of.
“Gate” : It is interesting to anyone with
a knowledge of British football to note that the
Rugby Union internationals are nowadays drawing
huge gates, while those of the Soccer internationals
are dwindling. The Cup finals and the big League
ties still attract hordes of round-ball barrackers, but
when England meets Wales, or even Scotland, the
glory is departed. Time was when Rugby was for
the select few and the mob did not intrude itself
upon its sacred mysteries. Now the pendulum has
swung across. Upwards of 50,000 saw England beat
Wales at Cardiff a week or so ago, and the English
victory, by B—6, over Ireland on Saturday was watched
by a crowd of over 40,000. On the same day the
Soccer game between England and Wales drew only
15,000. One of the causes is that there is no betting
on Soccer international games, whereas the League
ties probably carry more small bettors’ money each
•week in Britain than horseracing.
The coming Rugby Union season in
N.S.W. promises to be a full one, for it will practi-
cally end with the departure of the N.S.W. side
for England in July. M.L. will probably send
across a team, while the Universities side from the
Dominion, which has not been seen in Sydney for a
couple of years, will also be in evidence, playing
three matches with Sydney Uni. and a couple with
combined teams.
* * * *
Tlic Mako Shark Club, of Russell (MX.),
has had a new record added to its archives, albeit
by a visitor. Captain Mawson, lately relieving master
of the Niagara, fishing at Russell with a not very
stout line, battled for just on 12 hours with what
felt like the father of all makos. The fight started
at three in the afternoon, and by the time it was
over Mawson felt compassion for the fish. It turned
out to be a 2501 b. blue shark, foul-hooked under oil"
fin. Nobody ever kept a shark of any sort so long
in play single-handed before.
ORDEAL BY FIRE.
[FR THE BULLETIN.]
“A remarkable indifference to the fire was shown
by the large crowd of racegoers at Caulfield. Book-
makers continued to call the odds; the majority of
the crowd of 8000 people on. the stand retained their
positions until driven out by constables, and no
alteration in the racing programme was found neces-
sary.”
They scarcely sensed the crackling flames
That licked the flimsy floor;
Their quivering ears were strained to catch
Another sort of roar,
The litany of men with bags
Who bellow “Nine to four!”
Thin wreaths of smoke came eddying up
To hang round tug and toff;
Some petulant remarks it caused
And made the ladies cough,
But clear as bells at eventide
The cry went up “They’re off!”
A pungent smell was on the breeze,
The reek of timber charred,
But punters nosed about for tips
In utter disregard.
Some turned upon the warning cops
And cursed them good and hard.
Ordeal by fire men faced of old
I n mediaeval courts ;
And Spartans, too, and martyrs eke
At need were here —of sorts.
More than a tinpot blaze it takes
To rattle dead-game sports.
The stand went up in leaping flames,
The horses -galloped fleet.
Had someone ringward hied, and told
His boy to keep his seat
Till he returned, we might have had
Oasabianca beat.
N.S.W.
MIDFORD.


x<
V \ Tr
_f- v V
( «S?b.—± £±:l
"me
SgSM®
SL*
Si
>\ \
\^\W
PI
~3*v»
m
<0 m.
r Mu*
' tvs' :/
' Mi ,'$
/I
g-.... ,;
Steamship C?
\ MATSON NAVIGATION C 9 - MANAGING AGENTS * fl
22 Bridge Street, Sydney
Lor.nl Agents: Mcllwraith McEacharn Ltd., 94 96 William St, Melbourne; 117-119 King
William St., Adelaide; Ftemantle, Perth and Albany; Howard mith Limited, Prisb r'.
Fastest Service
United States and Europe
Only 19 days to San Francisco,
including romantic calls at Fiji,
Samoa and the Hawaiian Islands,
lovely isles of the Pacific. Nineteen
golden days of smooth-sailing com-
fort on a ship arranged for happi-
ness.
You enjoy life in your spacious state'
room, perfectly ventilated by forced
draft system, —on the broad decks, —in
the attractive social hall, —in the outdoor
swimming pool. Regular cinema pro-
grammes. Your appetite is keen for the
ship’s excellent food. You enjoy the
ship’s orchestra, the sports, and the
dances.
Sailings and fares list and descriptive
literature free.
S.S. SIERRA S.S. SONOMA
S.S. VENTURA
Every three ivee\s.
~p i'/ '
df /• *.
f, C- 9
<m'AYm*'7£
n
f%%,
Vfi*;
uJI
&
PS&&
f)
■O
sf///$ f /// &%%
t&*L
$///'
ONO
%%
t
fell
/
5 \ on
•&• *"' /
,\v
nils
isjS>'
4.
\\
o
o
t \
t'
Demand
VERTEX
When you wear AERTEX
Shirts and Underwear you
are clothed in air. An
AERTEX garment is com-
posed of thousands of tiny
air cells which insulate the
body against outside
temperatures.
This scientific principle
of weaving keeps you cool
and prevents chill afte*'
strenuous play.
Obtainable from all Hosiers, Outfitter: and or in case of diffcv *y a pply to
THE CELLULAR CLOTHING CO. LIMITED
313 Flinders Lane, MELBOURNE, Victoria, Australia
•who supply Wholesale Trade only
A 65
p
Registered Trade-mark.
BRITISH
SCISSORS of
HIGH QUALITY.
SOLID STEEL. A LIFETIME’S WEAR.
Representatives:
NORMAN BAKER * LONGHURST, LTD.,
Sydney, Melbourne, and Wellington, N.Z
CHRISTOPHER JOHNSON & CO., Sheffield,
FLAG BRAND CUTLERY, England.
No. 1369.
-
rar
m
S'
Happy Motherhood.
In the early months of frail life Benger’s does much to
lighten the anxious, happy task of motherhood.
For nursing mothers Benger’s is especially recommended
by medical men. It is light, highly nutritious, and so easily
digested that it is very beneficial in promoting a full supply of
natural milk.
For delicate infants and at weaning time, Benger’s is most
valuable. It adapts the fresh cows’ milk with which it i*
prepared to the delicate digestion of a child.
Food
'for Infants,
Invalids w/^Aged.
BABY BOOK FREE. —The Benger Book of Babies gives much veluabls
informa.ion to mothers. It also contains a Baby’s History Diary, and
Weight and Height Chart. Send for it to-day.
At all Chemists and Stores.
BENGER’S FOOD, LTD. 117, Pitt Street, SYDNEY.
Manufacturers: BENGER’S FOOD, LTD. MANCHESTER, Eng.
JIJSS
THE INKY WAY.
“Hamfat”: Israel Zangwill, although he
commanded princely prices for articles and
stories and did well with his plays, left only
a trifle over £3OOO. His widow told a London
newspaper man that heavy theatrical losses
accounted in part for the shrinkage in his
estate. Also he transferred £lO,OOO to her
a few years ago.
“S.G.”: It transpires that Government
advertising in the Sydney Labor Daily shot
up from £359 17s. in 1924-25, which wasn’t
a Lang year, to £1995 10s. 6d. in 1925-26.
Last year the Government actually spent
more on the organ of which four Ministers
have been directors than on four other Syd-
ney dailies—the Telegraph (£1076 12s.
6d.), the Guardian (£159 45.), the Sun
(£143 18s.) and the News (£l3B 9s. 3d.).
In effect, the loathsome capitalist lias to
foot part of the bill for those eulogies of
“staunch” Mr. Lang and for the propaga-
tion of clever Mr. Willis’s theories about
the nationalisation of credit.
“Wanchai”: Forty-odd years ago a S.
Aus. seaport town possessed a newspaper
proprietor with two close cronies, the town
clerk and a local lawyer. The three kindred
spirits, all of whom are now dead, used to
embark together on numerous bibulous ex-
cursions, and in the columns of the local
print these alcoholic escapades were subse-
quently chronicled unblushingly, and with
a wealth of detail worthy of Pepys. The
paper lias had many editors since those
days, but it is no discredit to them to say
that no issue is ever awaited with such
keen anticipation or read with such genuine
enjoyment as the sheets which used to feature
the periodical jamborees of the editor and
his boon companions.
Robert Bell, who was electee! president
of the World Press Congress held in Switzer-
land in December —another Maorilander,
Wallace Odell, of the Taranaki Daily News,
became secretary-treasurer at the same time
—lias attended all the press congresses
and has been twice vice-president. Bell,
bern t>4 years ago, emigrated to Queensland at
the age of 29 and made his start on the Towns-
ville Daily Bulletin. But N. Queensland
didn’t suit his health, and he went to M.L.,
where he became sub-manager of the Timaru
Herald. Fourteen years later he started
to acquire journals on his own account,
lie is now a factor in a chain of papers,
including the Lyttelton Times, the Otago
Daily Times and the Dominion of Well-
ington, which recently bought out the N.Z.
Times.
“Worm-i’-th’-bud”: I fear the insidious
influence of Hollywood film captions is pollu-
ting even our fairest wells of English unde-
filed. The other day, Sydney Herald men-
tioned that squatter-composer Kenneth
Duflield had first produced “Hullo, Healo!”
in Adelaide “because the composer belongs
there!” After that, it did not come as a
shock when that journal published a par.
about a curio-dealer, a ha’penny and Premier
Lang, quite in the Guardian’s most raffish
man-about-town manner. Perhaps the new
building has temporarily affected the old
lady’s balance.
“Mako” Gouverneur Morris, the American
novelist, who is returning to San Francisco
after a month in Maoriland, formed a high
opinion of the M.L. press. “The prose of
the newspapers astounded me,” he said. As
for the writing and speaking of the King’s
English in general: “Nowhere else in the
Empire is the standard so high.”
“Reg V.”: Why do rich Australians, when
deciding to do something for the arts, always
Teject the claims of letters? Leaving aside
the case of Felton, there was Archibald,
who, though a literary man himself, founded
a portrait prize hedged about by such restric-
tions that it goes to the same man nearly
every year. And there is James Dyer, who
gives £lO,OOO to establish a permanent
orchestra in Melbourne, and intimates that
he will add to it from time to time. Honor
to both; but let me point out that the
interest on £lO,OOO, distributed, say, every
two years as a reward for the host bit of
literary work published in Australia during
the previous two years, might, by purchas-
ing leisure in a favorable environment for
struggling writers, lead to the production
of the Great Australian poem, play, novel
or volume of essays. Then the donor’s name
would perhaps go ringing down the ages, as
Raisley Calvert’s will.
“Hamfat”: Sydney Morning Herald
was wrong in stating that the bust now
being made of Professor Holme will be the
first work of sculptor Alfred Gilbert in Aus-
tralia. Melbourne National Gallery has a
“Head of a Fisherman” by this erratic
genius. It is an overcrowded bit of work :
Gilbert’s “Eros,” of which London is
so proud, was similarly overcrowded in
its original design, but was simplified in
execution.
“Conklin”: I enter a defence on behalf
of that much-maligned quartette and butt
of the highbrows, Smith, Jones, Brown and
Robinson. Listed in Percival Serle’s admir-
able “Bibliography of Australasian Verse”
are no fewer than 13 Smiths, 4 Robinsons.
4 Browns and 4 Joneses. Among the Smiths
is William Saumarez, one-time Primate of
Australia, who, besides liis famous quarrel
with the cabby, can be credited with four
volumes of verse, of which “Christian Self-
denial : a Sermon in Verse” and “Echoes
of Sermons” were once best-sellers in their
line. The name of Michael Massey Robin-
son stands out among his namesakes. Michael
was transported for attempted blackmail,
and after arrival here was mixed up in some
little matters of perjury and forgery; none
the less, he was a loyal subject, and twice
annually for 11 years wrote an ode to the
King and Queen of the period on their re-
spective birthdays; these effusions are still
preserved in the files of the Sydney
Gazette. Another distinguished versifier in
his day was William Ashton Coomer Robin-
son, who published in Melbourne in 1861
“Truth Stranger than Fiction.” The Browns
and Brownes haven’t shone in verse, though
the Horowhenua Publishing Co., of Levin
(M.L,), has printed two volumes by George
Powiek 8., one of whose gems is “Triumph
of Brass,” a 12-paged political satire.


SLEDGE-HAMMER FACTS
and REASONS WHY!
There*s a reason for everything. You have a reason for everything you do. There*s a
reason for every act , every thought , every pound you spend. It is the reason at the back
of things that the World in motion. The reasons advanced herein as to why you
should take advantage of this opportunity would never have been written if the ultra-
conservative Board of Directors of Motor & Cash Orders Limited did not thoroughly believe
that such reasons were sufficiently sound
REASONS FOR AN IMMEDIATE AND SUBSTANTIAL INVESTMENT IN THE
SHARES OF MOTOR & CASH ORDERS, LIMITED.
Dirp A! JSF its business is made and there is no business to build up, for the reason that it already
has under contract £100,000 worth of safe and profitable business waiting for the capital
and many thousands more offered.
# * ¥ ¥
BECAUSE
the company is now employing its capital and earning profits from the soundest and safest
business it is possible to obtain. And the company only started to raise its capital a few
weeks ago.
BECAUSE
BECAUSE
BECAUSE
BECAUSE
BECAUSE
BECAUSE
the company combines in its operations two of the world s greatest and most profita e
undertakings under one Board of Directors, and, consequently, it will have a double
source of income and profit.
# ¥ # #
motor finance companies and cash-order companies are earning huge profits and paying
big dividends and placing substantial sums to reserves. This can be verified by a perusa
of the balance-sheets of such companies.
&
since the company does not spend its money it cannot lose it, for the reason that a very large
proportion of its business will be covered against loss by insurance and it will exact tne
utmost security for every pound it lends.
# * *
motor-car registrations are now one thousand a week, and steadily growing, and those who
adopt the cash-order system for their purchases are daily increasing, thus providing more
and more business for this, the only company operating in both departments of finance.
& * & &
a finance company can earn 1 per cent, by using its own capital only, per cent, k>3 r
utilising £3 of borrowed money for every pound of its own capital and 67|- per cent, by
utilising £5 of borrowed money for every pound of its own capital.
¥ H. ■ H- #
the number of shares already placed in the short period of the company s existence is
rapidly approaching the 100,000 mark, and when this eventuates the Option Rights will
have expired. At present, shareholders have the right to take up option shares over a
certain period at par in the proportion of one share for every share held.
Motor & Cash
Orders, Ltd.
CAPITAL - - £500,000
Divided into
50,000 Ten Per Cent. Cumulative Preference Shares of £l each, and
350,000 Ordinary Shares of £l each, offered for public subscription, payable 2/6 per Share on
application, 2/6 per Share on allotment, and the balance in calls of not more than
1/- per Share at intervals of not less than one month.
100,000 Ordinary Shares of £l each may be issued as stated in the prospectus.
ď
DIRECTORS:
SENATOR HON. W. MASSY GREENE, Company Manager, 4
Bridge Street, Sydney.
SIR EDWARD LUCAS. K.B. (late Agent-General for South Aus-
tralia), Menindie, South Australia.
H. C. MACFIE, Esq., Company Director, 14 Martin Place, Sydney.
PERCY FREEMAN, Esq., Investor, Shadfortli Street, Mosmau.
SOLICITORS :
MINTER, SIMPSON & CO., Hunter Street, Sydney.
AUDITORS:
C. A. LE MAISTRE WALKER & CO., 115 Pitt Street, Sydney.
SECRETARIES :
RUSSELL & RUSSELL, Public Accountants and Auditors, 29 Bligh
Street, Sydney.
ORGANISING BROKERS:
BRITISH-AUSTRALIAN UNDERWRITERS (AMAL.), LTD.,
Adyar House, Bligh Street, Sydney.
This advertisement was prepared
and inserted by British-Australian
Underwriters (Amal.), Ltd., Adyar
House, Bligh Street, Sydney.
Copies of the full Prospectus may be obtained
at the offices of British-Australian Underwriters
(Amal.), Ltd., Adyar House, Bligh St., Sydney.
To the Secretaries,
MOTOR <6 CASH ORDERS, LIMITED,
O/o British-Australian Underwriters (Amal.), Ltd.,
Adyar House, Bligh Street, Sydney.
I apply herewith for and request you to allot me Preference and
Ordinary Shares in the above Company, in the terms of the
Prospectus issued by you.
I agree to accept the same or any less number of shares that may be
allotted 'to me, and to be bound by the Memorandum and Articles of Association
of the Company, and I authorise you to enter my name in the Register as the
Proprietor of that number of shares.
I enclose my cheque for being 2/6 per share on application,
and I agree to pay a further 2/6 per share on allotment and the balance as
provided for in the Prospectus of the Company.
Usual Signature
Full Name
(Mr., Mrs. or Miss)
Address (in full )
Occupation
Date
S.B. 17/2/’27.


Showing one of the twenty-two die-cast metal
unit* which house the entire eighty-eight
valves in the Wurlitzer metal action.
The player with the wonderful metal action.
The “WuRLiIZER” Player Piano
The Wurlitzer metal action is an exclusive feature, not to be found in ordinary Players—and its
importance to purchasers of Player Pianos lies in the fact that the most delicately sensitive parts of
the action are made from a special non-corrosive metal alloy—which dispenses with the use of wood
At/ i* r^tzer . me t£*l action is not affected by the varying degrees of our climate, the glorious
Wurlitzer tone is retained throughout the lifetime of the instrument.
Full particulars and demonstrations from any of the follotcing music stores: —
New South Wales: Royal Player Piano Co., 635 a George Street, Sydney; M. Light & Sons, Ltd., Newcastle-and Cessnock;
„ s ; Loneragan, Ltd., Gulgong; The Australian Stores, Yass.
South Australia: The Australian Implement and House Furnishing Co., Adelaide.
1 ictoma: Myers Emporium, Ltd., Melbourne. West Australia: Musgroves, Ltd., Murray Street, Perth.
Queensland: Young & Whatnall, Campbell’s Buildings, Creek Street, Brisbane.
Where any difficulty is experienced in procuring a Wurlitzer, please communicate direct with the factory representatives:
8 O Connell Street, Sydney. PARKER, BLAU & CO., LTD. 308 Flinders Lane, Melbourne.
SUNDRY SHOWS.
SYDNEY SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Her Majesty’s “Rose Marie”
Criterion “Tea for Three”
Royal “The Mikado”
Palace “Hullo, Healo!”
S'r. James “Jack and the Beanstalk”
Fullers’ Vaudeville
Tivoli Vaudeville
MELBOURNE SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
His Majesty’s “Kissing Time”
King’s “The Last of Mrs. Cheyney”
Princess “Puss in Boots”
Athenasum “The Ghost Train”
Tivoli Vaudeville
Bijou Vaudeville
Majestic Moving Pictures
Hoyt’s Moving Pictures
“Kissing Time” was brought out for a
brief week’s exercise at Melbourne His
.Majesty’s on Saturday. If it were not for
Leo Franklyn, one feels, the show would be
moribund by half past nine, and ready to
be dragged to the crematorium by 10. Luck-
ily, however, Franklyn is the quaintest
clown the Firm has indented for many a
wintry day. He lacks George Gee’s taran-
tula extremities and Frith’s carplike smile.
In fact, physically, he almost competes at
times with Leyland Hodgson for feminine
attention, and, as the French husband who
has to cook meals for his wife’s lover in his
own kitchen, he is Pagliacci-like in his
appeal. But lie has seemingly an inexhaust-
ible supply of comical devices and can do
things with a trunk which no baggage-
smasher on the Sydney express has thought
of yet. Hugh Steyne wears the uniform of
Col. Bollinger and fills it well, and Floie
Allan and Leyland Hodgson are amongst the
also-sangs. Mona Barlee is a French maid
as vivacious as a wood-lien and as wel-
comely fresh as a plate of cherries. Margery
ilicklin, the star, continues to disappoint.
The interior of the Cafe des Allies isn’t a
triumph of the scene confector’s art, but
its deficiencies are forgotten in the dancing
of little, sturdy-legged, appealing Thurza
Rogers and the Pierrot passion for her of
Lascelles. The first act is as bright a
spasm of musicomedy writing as has come
from Wodehouse’s pen; but boredom soaks
the. rest of the garden like a fine rain.
“Kising Time” half the time is only killing
time.
❖* * *
“Fun on the Bristol,” Frank Neil’s final
flurry at the Palace, Melbourne, is not so
much a play as an early, doddering and dis-
astrous example of revue, and the Neil
interpretation is less a theatrical perform-
ance than a gymnastic earthquake and an
uproar. The uproar, which is mainly Neil
and Field Fisher, is punctuated by the
occasional emergence of Mona Thomas, a
fetching soubrette with a nice singing voice
and insistent legs, and Mary Gannon. The
piece made its first Australian bow at Mel-
bourne Royal in 1884, and even allowing
for many things, including the present
weather and over-ripening due to age, it
is hard to believe that the ragged fusillade
of gags and sorry business made a fortune
for its owners, but it did. It may even make
a fortune for Frank Neil, but one. doubts
it. It is also difficult to credit the fact that
John F. Sheridan made a figure of inter-
national fame out of the Widow O’Brien.
Perhaps there is risible matter concealed
about the anatomy of the talkative Irish
dame. If so, Neil fails to locate it. But
his make-up is excellent.
The desolate platform of Fal Vale, on the
South Cornwall Joint Railway, is still being
haunted every evening by the ghost of a train
and a variety of human spooks. Further
inspection of the mystery at the Athenaeum,
Melbourne, does not diminish one’s regard for
at least the first two acts of that remark-
able piece of grisly and comic fooling. Even
knowledge of the playwright’s jejune ending
does not prevent the tremors chasing one
another along the most sophisticated
spine. Deserving more extended mention
than she got in the first comments is Laura
Smithson, the little old lady who gets squiffy
by accident —the usual way one gets squiffy
—and, after sleeping through a night of
strange devices which have harrowed her
companions, wakes up and thanks goodness
it has been a quiet night. Incidentally,
even Mr. Clapp is not allowed to sec the
mechanical secrets of “The Ghost Train,”
which the staff is sworn jealously to guard.
Only a week remains in which to feel the
points of “Pins and Needles” at Melbourne
Royal, after which the Repertorians will
find there a home from home for a different
sort of show. “Puss in Boots” will vacate
the Princess on the same date; and on
the 26th, under the distinguished patronage
of Mr. Allan Wilkie, bluff King Hal will
bluff Queen Katherine that his desire for
the hand of lovely Anne Boleyn is a purely
political passion. The King’s hasn’t yet
seen the last of Mrs. Cheyney, though it
is unlikely much more will be seen of her.
After being given a week to pull itself
together, His Majesty’s will on the same
night throw its backdoor wide for “Rose
Marie” and its front portals open for the
expected overwhelming multitude of gala-
niglit devotees at prices to which even the
management has forgotten to attach the
adjective Popular.
Even if the unsocial satire of “Fanny’s
First Play.” which was elocuted but seldom
acted by the Little Art co. at the Queen’s
Hall, Melbourne, one humid night last week,
had not been torpedoed and sunk spur log
by the late war, it would still be one of
the least refreshing displays of Shaw’s vege-
table spirits, which are for ever promising
to rush into the world of action and for ever
tearing back into the pulpit. There was
one bright spot in Beresford Fowler’s array
of talent. She was Mollie Locke, as the
girl who emancipates herself from domestic
tyranny by knocking out a policeman’s
teeth. The lady has an air, an expressive
and varied delivery and a surplus of stage
aplomb that, would get themselves noticed in
any professional assemblage. With her
assistance, the company made the second
act of the play within a play thoroughly
amusing. Eric Donald, as the Gallic naval
officer,, earned the Legion of Honor by
delivering, without fainting, Shaw’s famous
leading articles on the respective merits
of the French and British soldier,
Sylvia Archer made the Cockney quean.
Dora Delaney, very nearly human, a task
of difficulty. The others are easily disre-
membered.
“Androcles and the Lion” (Sliaw) and
“The Man Who Married a Dumb Wife”
(France) will be the two-course meal to be
served at the Melbourne Royal on Monday,
February 28, by the Repertory Society, under
the shelter of the Taits and the baton of
George McMahon.
Stuart Robertson, English baritone, Bind-
ley Evans, accompanist, Alberto Zelman’s
musical commando and venerable flautist
Lemmone will assist Dame Nellie Melba to
say hello, if not good-bye, to Melbourne at
the Auditorium, March 2.
Melbourne Tivoli is mainly Olsen and
Johnson, two American comedians who
shake laughs out of their audiences much
as an unexpected rut will bump a grunt
out of a motorist. The Bijou is still play-
ing host to the amusing Wallace and his
somewhat mediocre crew. The rest of the
bill is largely average vaudeville which looks
and sounds as if it worked under an Arbitra-
tion Court award.
Rin-tin-tin,the famous dog, is at present
appearing in “The Night Cry” at the Majes-
tic, Melbourne. Wrongfully accused of kill-
ing sheep, he escapes from his would-be
slayer and saves his .master’s baby from a
condor. His battle in mid-air with the
“JACK AND THE BEANSTALK,” AT
THE ST. JAMES, SYDNEY.
The giant’s jester amusing himself, and King
Gerald (Charlton Morton) serving a
summons.
gigantic bird is a remarkable performance.
It must be regretfully admitted that there
is in Melbourne at present no actor, on the
flesh-’n’-blood stage or elsewhere, who can
compare for sheer dramatic talent with Rin-
tin-tin.
Norma Shearer, a Hollywooden actress
whose meteoric rise is said to have even
startled her discoverers, is this week a bril-
liant barrister in a celluloid confection called
“The Waning Sex” at Hoyt’s Melbourne
emporium. Her lover, Conrad Nagel, is
humiliated by her proficiency in the legal
game, but balances matters by marrying her
in the end. In “Subway Sadie,” Dorothy
Mackaill is that hackneyed film figure, the
girl with a craving for nice clothes, but she
goes an unusual way to get them.
The first quarter of an hour of “Hullo,
Healo!” at the Palace Theatre on Saturday
night satisfied this Showman that Kenneth
Duffield and Dion Titheradge have com-
pounded a very satisfying cocktail of comedy
and music. The main ingredient of the cock-
tail was Arthur Stigant, who unctuously
retailed bushels of gags, with no more than
a sprinkling of chestnuts. Stigant is the
half that matters of the unfinancial Ilealo
“THE LAST OF MRS. CHEYNEY,” AT
MELBOURNE KINO’S.
Mrs. Ebley and Lord Elton (Emma Temple
and Leslie Victor) in the bedroom scene.
patent-medicine proprietary, and having,
through a mistaken optimism about his pros-
pects, misappropriated a cheque for £lOOO
to keep the Healo concern going, he gets
away disguised as a cook on a pleasure
yacht carrying most of the rest of the cast.
When the yacht is wrecked lie is made king
of the island of Bliss by the ballet-girl and
chorus savages, only one of whom troubles
to be brown. The island episodes arc a
musical travesty of “The Admirable Crich-
ton”; and there is at least a flavor of “Rose
Marie” in the very excellent ballet-frills with
which producer Harry Hall has trimmed the
show.
* * * *
There is a large cast; but the whole affair
has been so built around the comedy of
Stigant that it is apt to drag a little when
lie is off the stage. Some of the love-
making episodes were long-winded and dry;
and, seeing that the show ran to well past
eleven on Saturday night, it could do with
a bit of pruning. Still, there are items in
the amorous diversion, like “Little Girl with
Byes Divine,” which couldn’t be spared.
This number was sung brightly by Adele
Crane, who, as Barbara Mortimer, was the
feminine half of the chief love interest. Nor-
man Shepherd, as Henry Mortimer, M.P.,
passed muster in everything but pomposity.
Miss Betterton Glover did well as a domi-
nating wife with a great craving for food :
William Perryman was inclined to stiffness,
but sang very fairly, considering his voice,
as Lord Hugh Colquhoun ; Olive Grant sup-
plied an Amazonian Mrs. Burnaby (Sti-
gant’s stage label was Barnabas Burnaby) ;
Oliver McLennan found the part of the Silly
Ass, Peter Gray, rather a strain, and the
two sisters of Elsie Prince—Kitty and Edna
—were fitted into the cast, one as a tourist
flapper and the other as' a brown princess,
with some opportunities for songandance.
The useful G. Kay Souper was, first of
all, a recalcitrant foreman of works with
a rooted idea that wages should be paid,
and, later, a long-whiskered priest in a savage
island, where gorgeous ballet-dress and
ecclesiastical vestments are both kept in
stock. Compton Coutts helped the humorous
side as Potiphar Andrews, the lesser half
of the Healo firm, and some bright perkiness
as the page-boy Bloggs was supplied by Joy
Thompson.
It looks like the turn of the theatrical
season in Sydney. “Rose Marie” will close
its record run in a spectacular way on Mon-,
day night next; “Tell Me More” comes
to Her Majesty’s on Thursday; and the
soft-hearted “Pirates of Penzance” are
marching out of the Royal on Friday to
make way for “The Mikado,” perhaps the
most Gilbertian of the G. and S. operas;
“Cobra,” also, will cease to raise its hood
this week—“ Tea for Three” is to be served
at the Criterion on Saturday night. “Jack
and the Beanstalk” has only a couple of
weeks more to run ; when the panto, goes,
the St. James Theatre will be added to
the houses giving big picture screenings,
except when it is wanted for Williamson
productions in need of Sydney dates. Mon-
day week (28th) is to see the opening of the
new Empire Theatre, at Railway-square:
and Sydney will be introduced to “Sunny,”
which lias proved a New York and London
success. Amongst all these changes, “Fair
and Warmer” sticks to its post at the Grand
Opera House ; but the Nellie Bramley season
has to end before March 12, when “The
Nervous Wreck” is due at that address.
Baby Joy Randall is an interesting four-
year-old who sits with her little legs dangling
before a grand piano, and plays offhand any
one of the _ popular melodies members of the
audience like to ■ select from her repertoire
of about 30 pieces. Childish mistakes creep
in, of course; but the turn is a remarkable
example of musical memory in an infant, and
the Sydney Tivoli audience decided from the
jump that the midget performer, who at the
end toddled in front of the curtain and
gathered up a bouquet as big as herself, is “a
darling.” B. N. Lewin, who was a member
of the “White Cargo” company, gave char-
acter impressions with the usual business of
making-up on the stage. They were well
done, the Toby Veck representation (from
“The Chimes”) being specially acceptable;
but one wishes that these impersonators
would let the overworked broken-down actor
and the done-to-death Fagin remain dead.
Another new act is that of one Manelli, who
juggles with great slickness; but it is pro-
bably the magic of Kwong Sing Wall and his
Orientals, the dancing of the Haney troupe,
and the infant pianist that caused the attend-
ants to rush round frantically looking for
spare seats on Monday.
Fullers’ Theatre has seen no occasion to
make any material change in its programme
beyond the usual alteration in the name of
the “revue.” “Just a Girl” gives Nat Han-
ley the average well-seized opportunity, and
a slightly better one than usual to A 1 Mack.
With the early passing of “Jack and the
Beanstalk” Madge White and some of the
others will be wanted for “No, No, Nanette,”
which is going on tour, and they must dis-
appear from vaudeville. Henri French, the
eccentric cyclist, is as funny as ever, and
Phyllis du Barry, the Australia cabaret girl,
is learning how to beat the noisy orchestra.
v
A Hollywood picture with an Australian
hero at last! But “The Coming of Amos”
serves only to expose the ignorance of the
American director. He gives us a fleet-
ing glance of a kangaroo and a flock of Aus-
tralian sheep, but his idea of the dinkum
shearer and the rouseabout is ludicrous.
That flicker passes, and the Australian is
shown in the Riviera —not the Riverina—
unpacking his boomerangs and his shears. In
a duel for an alleged Russian princess—
there must be a lot of them loose in Europe
-—Amos is decisively beaten. But when
Amos has to recapture the Russian lady,
immured in a castle of horrors, he improvises
boomerangs and slays the defenders with
these fearful weapons. The rest is mere
mad melodrama. Rod la Rocque poses and
makes faces as the Australian, and Jetta
Goudal and Noah Beery assist in the fake.
Amos comes this week to the Sydney
Empress.
** * *
Also seen on the screen :
The sex, they say, is waning; there’s little left
remaining of the hefty he-man kind. The stock has
sunk to zero of the big rampageous hero —he’s very
hard to find. “The Waning Sex,” now showing,
points out the way we’re going, and things look
rather blue; but victory comes nearer when pretty
Norma Shearer shows what her sex can do. She
is a lady legal, quite able to inveigle the Judge and
jury, too. Because of female ruses the man his
court case loses—-and what’s a man to do? The
picture has no moral; it’s just a farce. Why
quarrel with such a laughing play ? ■ But once the
lady marries, she’ll find her game miscarries: she'll
honor and obey.
Hoyt’s and the Strand, Sydney, show this
gay trifle.
* $ *
Neither heat-waves nor back-to-school
movements are having any perceptible effect
on the attendance at Adelaide picture-shows.
At Wondergraph Lon'Chaney, in “The Black
Bird,” thrills the flapper to her backbone
three sessions a day. The - York serves up
some laughable stuff, with Reginald Denny
and Laura La Plante in “Skinner’s Dress
Suit,” and more substantial fare in “Man-
trap,” a Sinclair Lewis novel adapted to
cinema purposes. At the Majestic Theatre
Fullers’ Vaudeville head-lines George Ward
and his snapshot revue co. in “Keeping Fit.”
which the audience contrives to do during
the performance. Under the stars at the
Garden Theatre Billy Maloney supplies
some “New Ideas,” the newest idea being
Rupert Hazell. At the Theatre Royal,
“Meet the Wife” is being presented by the
E. J. Carroll co., and being billed “clean and
wholesome,” with proper regard for the
Adelaide temperament.


SPEE
480
MOM
A MAN SIZE TRUCK
EARNS MORE PROFIT
PER LOAD!
m
m
m
4 m
m
Has it ever occurred to you ?
THAT- —REO’S low depreciation and economy in operation
mean low-cost transportation service ?
THAT- -REO’S ability to move capacity loads at high
speed saves time —and that time is money ?
THAT— REO SPEED WAGON costs less than 4 pence
per ton mile to operate ?
THAT— YOU SHOULD INVESTIGATE TRANS-
PORTATION ACCORDING TO REO ?
Send for our free Booklet on
“How to Operate Motor Trucks for Profit.’ 1
REO MOTORS LIMITED
171-175 WILLIAM STREET, SYDNEY, N.S.W.


HULL
Britain’s Third and
Cheapest Port.
The Natural Gateway
to a large Industrial Area of
12 MILLION PEOPLE.
11 DOCKS
Owned and Served by the
London 8 North-Eastern Railway
MODERN EQUIPMENT,
JIAPID HANDLING,
LOW CHARGES.
EXPRESS GOODS TRAINS
to all parts of the country.
Regular Fast Steamship Services to the
Continent, of Europe for Re-Export Trade.
AUSTRALIAN SHIPPERS are invited to
inquire for further information at the offices
of Messrs. BURNS, PHILP & CO., LTD.,
10 Bridge Street, Sydney; and Branches.
Iv.N.E.R..
Largest Dock-owning Railway
in the World.
Nation- Wide Popularity through
Fair Dealing.
The phenomenally rapid growth and nation-wide popularity of the
Producers and Citizens’ may be said to rest on the fact that it lives up
to the spirit as well as the letter of the ideal of Co-operation. For
example, its Policy-holders are protected against forfeiture of their
policies during seasonal emergencies; each year definite sums are
earmarked for loan purposes; while the Company’s intimate know-
ledge of the peculiar needs of the men on the land takes form in
sympathetic, understanding treatment.
The PRODUCERS & CITIZENS’
Co-operative Assurance Co. of Australia, Ltd.,
Gov. Dir.:
A. K. Trethowan.
114-120
Castlereagh Street, Sydney.
Gen. Wm ;
H. Fell.
THE
WOMAN’S MIRROR
Published Every Tuesday
Is the most popular 64-page
woman’s paper published in
the Commonwealth. It features
evdrything a woman ought to
know. Once you read it you
will never be without it.
Its up-to-date weekly pattern
is free for the asking.
Published by
The Bulletin Newspaper Co.,
214 George Street, Sydney.
Poverty
Point
“Curtain Raiser” : I wonder if Australian
audiences would stand “Siegfried,” one of
the Wagner operas promised in the forth-
coming season, as I saw it staged in Paris
in 1909? It is a long opera, but Siegfried
was longer, and he and a very stout Briin-
liilde occupied the (bare) boards most of
the evening. The dragon fell to pieces; the
machinery for pulling it off only got away
with its head; and six property men had
to come on in the middle of the proceedings
and remove the remains. Siegfried threw
himself down on the sward beside a babbling
brook; when he had finished another pro-
perty man came on and removed the grass,
which was a 6x 4 green mohair carpet. I
forget what represented the babbling brook.
Probably a soda-siphon. The seats cost two
guineas—equal to four nowadays.
“T.P.O’C.”: Poverty Pointers are associa-
ating Hugh J. Ward’s name with the new
Sydney Empire enterprise (B. 10/2/’27),
the directors of which are mostly bookmakers.
If Ward does join up, he will expect to
HE HATED JIMMY WOODSERS.
“Ha, ha, sir! Now we shall die together !”
“Oh, well, that’ll he company part of the way!”
have more control of the steering machinery
than the Williamsons and the Fullers allowed
him. The little chap is too fond of importing
overseas mediocrities for second- and third-
lead jobs when good material is available
locally. Apart from that weakness, he has
forgotten more about the show business than
the entire Empire syndicate will ever learn.
“Canto”: I bet a pass-out check that the
speaking film, when it comes to these parts,
will talk with a strong ILollywooden accent.
Imagine Hamlet soliloquising “Tah be ah
naht tah be” ! I heard a gramophone record
of “Take a Pair of Sparkling Eyes” by some
star singer of Centerville, Tex. I smashed
the record when lie came to,
“Take a prerry li’l caht,
Quite a minatoor affair.”
“Ctesar’s Ghost”: A plucky overlanding
feat was that of Barton Bros’, circus.
Having finished its tour of S.A. at Fowler’s
Bay, the circus decided to use its own wheels
to get to the Kalgoorlie railway; but the
Ninety-Mile Desert proved a tough proposi-
tion. The motor trucks sank so deeply in
the sand that the seating planks had to be
used to make a corduroy track. It was
heroic work that finally brought a depleted
show to Ooldea; 12 horses, half of them
performers, and two camels had gone and
one of the motor-trucks had been claimed
by the sand. Yet the show opened cheer-
fully at Kalgoorlie, and, having put some
new horses into training, it expected to
be quite up to strength at Perth. Its next
move is to Singapore.
“Peter Pan” : Muriel Starr in her present
Brisbane season is having a go at two hero-
ines impersonated here by . other leading
ladies. The wronged-one of “The House of
Glass” was introduced by Florence Rock-
well, and the vivacious young lady of
“French Leave” was impersonated by Emelie
Polini. Muriel will also display “The Gold-
fish,” which has already been done in Hobart
and M.L.
“Lud”: Cabled that E. .1. Carroll is in-
troducing Pauline Frederick to the London
public. The Australian entrepreneur is tak-
ing on a courageous job—he proposes that
the American actress shall open in “Madame
X.” The old-fashioned French melodrama
was done in Fogland years ago with Lena
Asliwell on the spot marked “X”; and
Arthur Wontner, not long returned from
these parts, scored a big hit as the young
advocate.
“R.K.D.N.”: In Jerome K. Jerome’s
opinion Dion Boucicault is too painstaking:
“His method is to play all the parts himself,
leaving the actor to copy him.” Once, after
a fortnight’s coaching of Gertrude Kingston,
lie asked her how she liked her part. “What
part?” asked the actress. “Why, your part —
the Countess.” “Oh, that,” answered Miss
Kingston, “I thought you played that!”
“M.G.S.”: “R” (B. 3/2/’27) is annoyed
with Allan Wilkie because he pays no copy-
right on Shakspeare’s plays. Wilkie tackled
a task funked by all the big firms, and has
carried through with it uncommonly well. The
big firms pay copyright on imported piffle,
but only when the piffle has demonstrated by
long runs in London and New York that it
isn’t likely to lose them money. I have heard
of no Australian playwright waxing fat
on copyright fees from any of the big firms.
Anyhow, has Wilkie asked for a State sub-
sidy? He strikes me as a fighter rather than
a politician.
“Caul Boy”: Freaks of memory? There
is an electrician at Melbourne Tivoli who
can recall perfectly every turn of importance
that playshop has seen for over a period of
40 years. But he can’t remember the turns
of the past five years. Why should he?
Randolph Bedford: M. G. Skipper com-
plains of “the succession of feeble comedies,
most of them from New York.” But they
replace even more feeble dramas like “If
Winter Comes” and the water-gruel of
Barrie. In this, as in all ages, no man try-
ing for success as a maker of books or
plays dare ask the herd to think; and
surely the best of the slick American
plays that entertain, if they do nothing
else, are preferable to the dull English
play that pretends to be thoughtful be-
cause it doesn’t amuse. Anyhow, to
sneer at the U.S.A. while buying from it
so heavily that it has an annual trade
advantage of 180 million dollars; while
using American genius of construction in
all our new buildings; while paying much
money for its most disgusting export of
jungle noises and jazz—this is hypocri-
tical as well as stupid.. Mr. Skipper
snouia save ms uisiiKe or tne
American exporter of plays
and moving-pictures. Not
even Australian theatre pro-
prietors are to blame; they
give their public what it
wants, and if their public is
a pig it will prefer swill to
roses. Anyhow, I person-
ally prefer trifles such as
“Is Zat So?” to the all-
English idea of West Africa
expressed in “White Cargo,”
which is everything a play
should not be.
“Goldilocks”: Light upon English stage
salaries was thrown by a case in which
an actor sued Seymour Hicks for two weeks’
salary, and got it. Hicks asserted that the
actor, whom he fired after the second night,
had shown himself grossly incapable of
playing the part. The amount involved
was a whole 14 guineas, and the part was
that of Henri Delatour in a revival of
“The Man in Dress Clothes.” Evidently
Hicks doesn’t believe in large salaries, except
for himself.
“Jacky Roo”: Mention of the Fabian
Society (B. 27/l/’27) reminds me that I
figured as Mussolini in an amateur farce
staged by the society in London in 1922.
We rehearsed in the society’s rooms in a
back lane near Westminster. Passing down
an ill-lit passage and knocking stealthily
on a door used to give me a proper feeling
of intrigue. The Fabians were intensely
serious, and recited Wells and Shaw when
they weren’t singing “The Red Flag” ; but
their well-dressed and well-fed appearance
somehow spoilt the illusion. When I refused
to stand as they bellowed their anthem, a
large and prosperous-looking gentleman con-
fided to me that all Australians were ardent
socialists and haters of capitalism.
“Lever de Rideau”: The J.C.W. grand
opera frenzy will break out in Melbourne
in September. An unusual list of modern
works as yet unsung in this country includes
Richard Strauss’s “Der Rosenkavalier,” first
produced in Dresden in 1911 and at Covent
Garden in 1913 ; Wolf-Ferrari’s “I Gioielli
Della Madonna”; Montemezzi’s “L’Amore
Dei Tre Re,” and Puccini’s “Gianni
Scliicclii.” “Suor Angelica” and “II
Tabarro.” Some of the last-named would
be more justly named musical melodramas,
ASTRONOMERS.
Waiting for the stars to come out.
judging by their plots. The uproar over
the importation of an indifferent male
chorus for the last season has possibly had
some effect on the Taits. The supernumerary
warblers, both male and female, are likely
to be Australians.
“Sacred Lamp”: At a Sydney mission
the other night the organist struck up the
Soldiers’ Chorus from “Faust.” The rev.
gent, remarked that the tune, which was
usually sung to the burden, “Oh, boys, we’ll
never get drunk any more!” was most appro-
priate to the mission sentiment. Those words
were first “released” at the old Gaiety
Theatre, London, in “Faust-up-to-Date,” a
production of which many pleasing mem-
ories concerning Nellie Farren and Fred
Leslie still linger in the minds of the ungodly.
“E.T.”: John Barrymore, the American
stage and picture star, went to London a
couple of years ago and played “Hamlet” at
the Haymarket. In his recently-published
book, “Confessions of an Actor,” he dilates
on the terrors of the first night. “The
man in front came back to me several times
to tell me about the audience. ‘Of course,
you know,’ he said, ‘Mr. Shaw is in the
house.’ He told me of the arrival of Dun-
sany, Maugham. Mary Anderson, the
Asquiths, Sir Anthony Hope Hawkins, Henry
Arthur Jones, Pontius Pilate, Paul of Tar-
sus and the Pope. I looked from the wreath
Madame Melba had sent me to the mounted
tarpon, caught off Key West, which had
been inadvertently packed. Fishing, I
thought, will be just as good as ever when
this is over.” But some mummers have no
nerves on a first night. One London actor-
manager, with whom I worked for several
seasons, could always be found in his dress-
ing-room complacently shaving himself with
an old-fashioned razor 10 minutes before the
curtain rose.
“A.G.M.” (Lond.) : Harry Tiglie’s three-
act Australian play with only three charac-
ters pleased the critics at the premiere at the
“Q” Theatre. The three mummers engaged,
Nancy Price, Jeanne de Casalis and Mal-
colm Keen, gave the author every reason for
satisfaction. It is a triangle drama set in
the bush. The characters are well developed:
the sequence of the story runs on natural
lines and yet provides the interpreters with
some effective situations ; the dialogue is easy
and interesting. The only blemishes of con-
sequence are that the author occasionally
leaves the audience in doubt of the motives
of the characters and furnishes a finale
that docs not disclose which lady has been
killed by Martha’s gun. Martha, the un-
romantic and innocent intruder, is capitally
played by Nancy . Price. Had Tiglie not
fettered himself unduly by limiting the
story to three characters he would probably
have reaped a great measure of success.
“Goldilocks” : Kenneth Duffield has weath-
ered the gales his newly-launched barque has
suffered since it was given a christening cere-
mony at the Windsor Hotel, Melbourne, 18
months ago. “Snap” and “Just So” brought
fair business in Melbourne, but Howett
Worster and Kitty Reidy let temperament
take possession. The end of the first venture
came when the pair walked off the stage at
Adelaide. “Hullo, Iloalo !” is well ahead of
the other two Duffield-Titheradge produc-
tions. With an excellently-balanced co. the
venture lias all the elements of popularity.
“Hamfat”: Violet Domino, “The Mystery
Film Girl” with
Fullers, wants to
get hold of some
good Australian
songs. It was
when she was with
the D’Oyley Carte
company, about
three years ago,
that Violet hit
upon the notion
she is now work-
ing : she makes
moving-pictures of
the cities she visits,
finds an appropri-
ate song or songs,
and blends movies
and ditties in her
acts, with a few
song-travelogues of
places strange to
her audience. The
ultimate idea is a
complete repertoire
of travel, picture
and song, given in
a complete pr o-
gramme. The lady
sustained a shock
on arriving in this
country owing to
the difficulty in
finding suitable
Australian songs.
The best was a
forgotten score
which the man-
ager of Alla n’s.
Adelaide, discovered
for her —“Austra-
lia, Gem of the
Ocean.” The manager could not recall the
name of the author or composer—suicides
probably.
“Jones John” : Film-fanciers get a rotten
deal in some Sydney picture-shows. There
are balcony seats front which it is impos-
sible to see the pitchers properly. And pro-
prietors will cheerfully accept money for
seats SO; close to the screen that you can't
view the villainy without eye-strain. For the
sake of the community’s eyesight these bri-
gands should be forced to remove the first
dozen rows of front seats. They should like-
wise be compelled to provide tickets bearing
the numbers of the seats purchased, and pro-
hibited from letting people stand in passages
and sit on steps leading to exits—practices
which may lead to a repetition in Sydney of
the holocausts reported during the last six
months or so from Ireland and Canada.
“Goldilocks” : Gladys Moncrieff, who, after
one unsuccessful venture, declined to accept
minor chances in London, has at last got
her reward. With it comes the big advertise-
ment occasioned by the screams of Mile.
Techy, the Hungarian actress, who was to
have played the part Gladys has secured in
“The Blue Mazurka.” The Hungarian was
not able to acquire sufficiently lucid English.
Now the foreign lady is threatening legal
proceedings, but Gladys is in possession.
“Hamfat”: Some of these imported actors
do love Australia! The break-up of the
“White Cargo” co. saw no rush of its mem-
bers to get back to England, although the
play lias kept them away for a year. Leon
Gordon’s stay has been delayed only for the
presentment of “Tea for Three,” but Wallis
Clarke went over with him. B. N. Lewis, tin
missionary, has got on the bills of tfie Tivoli
circuit as a character impersonator. Bert
Barton made a springing dive into a part
in “Sunny,” and hopes to remain in the sun-
shine. The massive Olive Grant, who arrive.!
with “No, No, Nanette!” is settling down in
“Hullo, Healo !” ; and June Mills, brought out
for Fullers’ “Cinderella” pantomime three
Christmases ago, is still throwing her weight
about upon Australian vaudeville stages.
Every imported co. leaves a few Thespians
behind.
“C. Ockney”: Theatrically, London is hav-
ing a fit of the blues. At Daly’s, Franz
Lehar’s “Blue Mazurka” has just been put
on. “The Blue Kitten” is delighting suburban
audiences. Now “The Blue Train” is being
got ready to start, with London’s original
“Merry Widow,” Lily. Elsie, returning to the
boards in the leading part.
VAMPS.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Now everywhere on every stage
The slinky vamps triumphant rage
And through the moving pictures roam ;
And sometimes I have yearned to strike
One for myself—l thought I’d like
A little vamp about the home.
How foolish! Why, they pose and strut
And coil their arms about you, but
Quite common, are their snaky wiles.
They start their games when in the cot;
Before they talk they know what’s what—
There’s danger lurking in their smiles.
The woman who is now your wife
Has vamped you once at least in life—
How easily the trick was done!
She on the stage just plays a part
That every woman knows by heart—
When all are vamps why pick on one ?
For off the stage the vamps abound;
In every family they’re found;
We to their ancient antics fall.
For every female knows the art
And plays triumphantly her part.
But widows are the worst of all!
N.S.W.
A. H. A.


a
f/
tO-
HP
b
No. 99 SET. Contains the essentials
for a perfect “Valet” shave —the
razor, strop and blade in o /£*
leatherette-covered case. . O/w
Of all dealers.
vfi
CD
1
JSS
Ever
Felt
Velvet?
He can’t pass that mirror without marvelling. Fifty
perfect shaves and the self-same blade still as keen as
ever on its job. The secret? No secret; it’s the
“Valet” Auto Strop Safety Razor, the razor that
strops its own blade without removal from the frame.
Ask your dealer to show you how it works.
“'VALET”
.Awfco
Safety Razor
The Auto Strop Safety Razor Co., Ltd.
197-207 City Road, London, England.
Managing Agents for Australia —
PHIPSON & COMPANY, LTD.. 181 Clarence Street, Sydney.
BRITISH
MADE.
OF ALL
DEALERS.
W
isi
LAFF ARGUE
and
VICTOR
NATURAL EXPRESSION
PLAYER PIANOS
f
A new departure in the construction of Player Pianos and Rolls. The Natural
Expression Rolls have been played by skilled Pianists, and their exact playing is
faithfully recorded with every shade of phrasing and expression, together with
crescendos and diminuendos as intended by the composer.
Can you imagine anything finer than a classic of Beethoven played by an eminent
pianist? This and hundreds of other rolls, including Dance, Vocal and Jazz items,
in your home at a moment s notice.
These truly wonderful Players can be bought on Easy Terms. We will take your
used Piano in exchange and allow you its full value.
WRITE FOR FULL PARTICULARS. CATALOGUES FREE.
338 George Street,
Sydney.
dd
206-210 Pitt Street
(next Lyceum Theatre).


Tailoring to Measure
In preparation for the visit of
T.R.H. The Duke and Duchess
of York.
desiring completion of suits to measure
before the arrival of the royal visitors are
desired by Peapes to place orders immediately.
S’
; tf
! I
With Peapes, the mak’ng of
individual clothes character-
istically suited to the wearer
is a particular art, especially
appreciable on so important
an occasion in Australian
history.
Peapes 5 thorough understand-
ing of the better class of
tailoring, their wide resources
for obtaining the finest and
most original materials, and
the exceptional facilities
which the New Building allows
enable them to ally the best
workmanship to the best
suitings, yet to keep charges
well w.thin bounds.
Medium - weight All - Wool
Worsteds, in plain or fancy
weaves, Fawns, Greys, Blues
and Browns, tailored in sac
style on Peapes 5 cy Iyj
exclusive lines .. * / (/ ~
Patterns and simple self-measurement
form on application
PEAPES PAY POSTAGE
PEAPES
& Co. Ltd.
Men 5 s and Boys 5 Outfitters
George St. (opp. Hunter St.)
SYDNEY
Take the workshop atmosphere
away from your kitchen
EIECTRJC
Thousands of housewives are doing it
—you can too. Eliminate the hard
labor of cooking with fuel stoves, oil
stoves, gas stoves, etc. Let the
THE TRA6E MARK KNOWN IN EVERY MOM
LANDERS. FRARY & CLARK. NEW BRITAIN, CONN.
Electric Range
prove its helpfulness and economy.
The oft-repeated assertion that an
electric range is expensive to operate is
disproved every day by those who use
the UNIVERSAL.
One penny per person per day
That is the average cost for current to do all the cooking you
need. VTiether you want to prepare a light meal or a four-
course dinner—you get satisfaction.
The UNIVERSAL is easy to operate—safe—hygienic and
dependable. You can forget all the worry of carrying fuel,
constant firing, the trouble with dust, ashes and fumes.
There is a size to suit your need—whether you live in flat,
cottage or mansion.
E97—with two hot plates.
E973—with three hot plates.
Inside Size of Oven: 12in. x 12|in. x 16£in.
Obtainable from electricians, stores and ironmongers.
Factory Agents for Australia and New Zealand:
W. G. WATSON & CO., LTD.
279 Clarence Street, Sydney.
29 Hunter Street, Newcastle.
200 Queen Street, Melbourne.
55 Charlotte Street, Brisbane.
28 Coromandel Place, Adelaide
U 33 Hay Street, Perth.
It.
SS?
m(p ■.
a
sa@
;—a
UiWimmj
■Hi r, K>
j SI l
c:
rtiik ILL „ *“■
sUJJ JJJ
a
m
The House for
the Best in
PLUMBERS and Engineers’ Brasswork.
ASBESTOS and other Packings.
PIPES and Fittings in Wrought and Malleable Iron.
BRASS and Copper Tubes, etc.
SHEET LEAD, Lead Traps, Lead Pipe, etc.
METALS in Ingots, Sheets, etc.
SHAFTING, Belting and other Transmission Goods.
LUBRICATING Oils and Greases.
HEATING and Hot-water Systems.
BATHS, Lavatory Basins and Bathroom Fittings.
MANTELPIECES, Grates, Tiles and Fireside Furnishings.
FUEL and Gas Stoves.
PAINTS and all Painters’ Requisites.
WALLPAPERS and other Wall Coverings.
BUILDERS’ and General Ironmongery.
INLAID Linoleums, Cork Carpet, etc.
ELECTRIC Accessories.
ELECTRIC Cooking Appliances.
WIRELESS Sets and Parts.
DOMESTIC Hardware of every descript; n,
WINDMILLS, Pumps and Irrigation Requisites.
TOOLS for the Woodworker.
TOOLS for the Engineer.
GARDEN Tools.
GARDEN Hose and Hose Fittings.
SPRAY Pumps and Spraying Materials.
MOTOR Accessories.
OILZUM Cylinder Oils for Car, Truck or Cycle.
CHURCH, School and other Bells.
HOSPITAL Steel Furniture, Antiseptic Fittings and Porcelain
Enamelled Earthenware.
JOHN DANKS &SON PTY.LTD,
HI
591-403 BOURKE ST. MELBOURNE
And at Sydney,


■X
to
W
I li 111 II M I ITShU
111 | I! II i 1
••• ■ r
H r'-
f-Ss'
m-
I 'll *
_J
m
v
o
cis
P
iniin
!\C
&>
CJ
s£R
m
cs
m
1/ /
/
m
2«»»*
-F
y;
■■Mq
!!!>■«
/«
r\
mui
«
u
11
S!£
W
mill
lIHII
s*3>
m alt:
£
HW
=r
pißllii?
iciiii'iii
N
xjt^
Sr
\
as.
DFs
<or
m
=Ss
C
X-
-C n VV-
V-
f/
&
c<>
b §
M
(r
ft
From First to Last—the High Quality Safeguarded
FROM the crude to the finished
product, through every process
of its refining, Plume Motor Spirit is
subjected to exhaustive examination
and analysis. At the wells, the
refinery, the laboratory, highly-skilled
specialists apply the most searching
tests to ensure the high quality of
Plume being rigidly maintained.
This exacting care in its produc-
tion has resulted in Plume’s acknow-
ledged uniformity and dependability.
Thus the Plume disc on a kerb pump
is a definite guarantee of the highest
grade motor spirit—a motor spirit of
unrivalled power and purity, and one
which ensures Easy Starting—Sweet
Running—More Miles.
For Ideal Motoring Results, Fill Up with
u
VJ
Easy Starting —Sweet Running—More Miles
VACUUM OIL COMPANY, PIY l t »


FOR
ARCHITECTS, ARTISTS, DESIGNERS,
DRAUGHTSMEN & OFFICE USE.
BRITISH
MADE
Perfection
RUSK. RUBBER.
UNIQUE NOVELTY.
PENCIL-PENKNIFE COMBINATION, pro-
pelling and repelling pencil, with concealed
Penknife at rear. Xylonite finished in six colors.
ONLY l/'6 each, or 16/- per dozen.
Will sell at sight at 2/6 each.
AUSTRALASIAN MERCANTILE
COMPANY, LTD.,
157 CLARENCE STREET, CITY.
Amusements.
3 YDNE Y’S CHIEF THEATRES.
J. C. WILLIAMSON, LTD., present
HER MAJESTY’S: ROSE MARIE.
CRITERION: TEA FOR THREE.
ROYAL: THE MIKADO.
PALACE: HULLO, HEALO!
3YD N E Y’S BEST SHOWS.
Direction Sir Benjamin Fuller & Mr. John Fuller.
ST. JAMES: JACK & THE BEANSTALK
FULLERS’ THEATRE:
FULLERS’ VAUDEVILLE.
RICKARDS’ TIVOLI THEATRES.
1 “ Lessees: Harry Rickards’ Tivoli Theatres, Ltd.
MELBOURNE and SYDNEY.
TWICE EVERY DAY—2.3O and 8.
CELEBRITY VAUDEVILLE.
The World’s Best.
.1 C. WILLIA MSO N, LTD.,
Ul MELBOURNE ATTRACTIONS.
HIS MAJESTY’S:
KISSING TIME.
KING’S THEATRE:
THE LAST OF MRS. CHEYNEY.
|V|EW BIJOU THEATRE, MELBOURNE
Twice Daily, 2.30 and 8.
GEORGE WALLACE REVUE CO.
Popular Prices. Plan Cen. 3251.
PRINCESS THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
" The Theatre Beautiful.
Sir BENJAMIN FULLER and JOHN FULI.ER
present
PUSS IN BOOTS,
London’s Greatest Fairy Pantomime.
Every Evening. Matinees Daily.
Plan at. Glen’s.
Reserved Seats 7/- plus tax. Matinees 5/- plus tax.
Children half-price to all parts.
A THEN M U M THEATRE,
H MELBOURNE.
Proprietor: Frank Talbot Pty., Ltd.
Lessee: E. J. Carroll.
EVERY EVENING AT 8.15.
E. J. CARROLL presents
THE GHOST TRAIN.
LAUGHABLE COMEDY WITH A THRILL.
Played by E. J. Carroll’s London Comedy Company.
MAJESTIC THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
BERT LYTELL and BILLIE DOVE in
LOUIS JOSEPH VANCE’S STORY,
THE LONE WOLF’S RETURN.
The fifth and last of his astounding adventures.
Box Plan at Allan’s & Theatre. ’Phone 7076 & 7790.
HOYT’S DE LUXE THEATRE,
1 1 MELBOURNE.
NORMA SHEARER in
THE WANING SEX.
ALSO
SUBWAY SADIE,
with DOROTHY MACKAILL and JACK MULHALL.
Prices as usual.
Legal Notice.
’J’O THOMAS ALFRED HUMBLE late of Payneham
in the State of South Australia Farmer.
TAKE NOTICE that a Citation bearing date the
third day of September 1926 has been issued in the
Supreme Court of South Australia citing you to
appear and answer the Petition of Mona Cranston
Humble of Wellington-road Payneham in the said
State Married Woman praying for a dissolution
of her marriage with you AND IN DEFAULT of
jour so appearing you will not be allowed to address
the Court and the Court will proceed to hear the
said Petition and to pronounce sentence therein.
THEREFORE TAKE NOTICE that for the purpose
aforesaid you are w'ithin ninety days from the date
of the publication of this advertisement to attend in
person or by your solicitor at the Supreme Court
Victoria Square Adelaide aforesaid and there to enter
an appearance in accordance with the rules in that
behalf.
(L.s.) W. L. STUART.
Master.
BEASLEY JAMES WILLIAM KEARNEY, of National
Chambers, 22 King William Street, Adelaide,
Petitioner’s Solicitor.
If any illustration in The Bulletin takes
your fancy, write to the Manager, who will
quote you price for the original.
The “Texas Ranger” Cowboy Saddle
3
lii
.
11
•'
m
1 1
?
WB&
m
£l3/13/-
FREIGHT PAID FOR CASH WITH ORDER
TO ANY N.S.W. RAILWAY STATION.
Write for our Catalogue of Texas and
Australian Saddlery, showing other
styles of Cowboy Saddles.
BS4.—COWBOY BRIDLE, fancy
studded, with standback throat and
gunmetal bit, with nickel horse head
on cheek, 76/-
BS3—COWBOY BREASTPLATE, studded
to match bridle, 75/-
B7O.—COWBOY CHAPS, with fringe, 85/-
850. —COWBOY BELT, ornamented with
brass studs, 27/6 each.
81513.—-COWBOY SPURS, gunmetal with
nickel spots on side, 25/- pair.
81274.—.C0W80Y SPURS, nickel plated,
16/6 pair.
B4I.—FANCY SPUR LEATHERS, 5/6 pr.
B6I.—COWBOY FANCY CUFFS. 12/6 pr.
BBO.—BRAIDED COTTON LASSO, 15/-.
Post 1/-
BBI.—BRAIDED LINEN LASSO, 22/6.
Post 1/-
WALTHER 8 STEVENSON. Ltd.
395 George Street
Sydney.
THE CHEAPEST HOUSE
IN ENGLAND FOR
OFFICE FURNITURE
Specialising in Roll Top and
Pedestal Desks, Filing
Cabinets, Office Chairs and
everything for the perfectly-
equipped office, at prices
which are positively the
lowest in England.
SAVE TIME!
Send your indent direct to:—-
The OXFORD CABINET Co.
146 Charing Cross Road,
London, W.C. 2, England.
Children
enjou
it makes them
u)ell and strong
In 4 sizes
of all Chemists a, Stores
«
f
€
t.
crc She prudent housewife doesn’t fret,
She has a stock of cS^riehovette.”
Unexpected quests
PECKS
ANCHOVETTE
Always keep a jar in the pantry
m
Peck
M*
FAIRBANKS SCALES
s=a
<3
Fairbanks Motor
Truck Scale
THE peculiar conditions
surrounding motor truck
weighing demand a
special scale construction.
From 70% to 95% of the load
is carried on the rear axle,
consequently the weight is
not evenly distributed on the
four scale bearings. The
Fairbanks Motor Truck Scale
is designed to withstand the
pounding and jarring of
heavily loaded motor trucks
and to weigh them with con-
tinuous accuracy.
Representative for Australia :
R. W. WINNING,
380 Sussex Street, Sydney; 235 Queen Street, Melbourne-
THE FAIRBANKS C0.,4168r00me St.,New York, U.S.A.
Accurate —dependable
Answers to Correspondents.
No notice (except of a hostile character ) will he
taken of communications insufficiently stamped.
Name and address must appear on the MSS. No
liability is undertaken re contributions volun-
tarily submitted ; and no MS. will be returned
unless stamps accompany.
H. John: Won’t fit in, though one or two
oi the incidents would make good paragraphs....
A. Holt: “Fallacy” is well-worked ground. .. .Japon-
ette: Don’t be in such a hurry. You must get the know-
ledge first. .. .R.W.S.: “Froggart” is too late and
very du11.... Maurice G.: Only lack of space shuts
it out. . . .F.P.8.: Thank you, but we don’t repro-
duce such photos. .. .C.D.M.: It doesn't follow that
it isn’t a good article because we don’t print it.
The most we can do is to make a selection for
those over-crowded Red pages, with a half-mile queue
outside... .P.T.: The principal reason why we can't
print reasons for not printing some pars is that we
want the space to print other pars... .U. J.R.:
“Jenolan” just fails.... Ohumpy: Afraid it’s not
poetry.... Alison F.: Such a wee thought; but the
form is all right... .D.L.W.: Trite. .. .Manus: Sorry,
but the matter has been sufficiently discussed....
Frank K.: “Shot” isn’t convincing. .. .Robert Kef:
Some good lines; but none as a whole is quite up
to sonnet standard.... Laurieknowe: No new thought
or fact in it. .. . A.R.F.: “Scents-indolence”—it won’t
do.... Cape: No use for the kind of story that is
95 per cent, introduction and 5 per cent, murder.
.. . .R.E.: More like an engineering feat than poetry.
. ...A.EiF.: It’s sad that you should think that
funny.... Cab G.: “Approximately 4500 words.”
Yes, approximately that.... Pom: No value.... liath
M.: Commonplace... .Edna R.: Duly passed 0n....
J.H.8.: Album verse 0n1y... .Audrey R.: Slight stuff;
but you may do better... .W.M.L.: Some good lines,
but the theme is overdone. You are young, appa-
rently; if so, you should do well. .. .Marjorie E. B.:
Beginning promising; end as lame as the stout
flapper... .F.C.F.: Neither tragedy nor story....
Cam D.: Drank his mate’s beer? He ought to be
shot.... Ripponlea: As you didn’t name this horror,
we’ll call it “Public Curiosity”:—
Screams, screeches and screaks slit the air;
And with an awful, agonised, anguished howl
He precipitately flinched out of the chair,
Swiftly swathing and swabbing his throbbing throat
in a tow’l.
Other men observed in scorn, amaze or
Terror. Th’ barbarous barber without a note
Of warning whatever had drawn his razor
Swiftly and steadfastly across the outstretched
throat.
’Neath a fountain of bleed he lay, as still as death.
They rushed o’er the room in a manner most rash,
Eagerly surrounding him with bated breath
In their unseemly desire to see the Gash.
... .Tempus Fugit: No notice or banns required. You
could go direct to registry office or see qualified
minister of religion, who, if willing, could act....
Sonia H.: That sigh of passion is too slight....
lI.H. (St. K.) : One may do ; others just fail. Tauten
your treatment.... A.C.G.: It would be merely forced-
meat even if there was any meat.... John S.: As a
personal favor, don’t send us the rest of it....
E.A.E.: Would make a par... .R.V.W.: Wishy-washy.
... .Cecil W.: Description of a hot day is mere verbal
perspiration. We want stories. .. .A.C. (Benalla) :
Only a strikingly musical tone would justify those
repetitions... .C.L.C.: Note your request for a million
Aussies to march “that every tyrant may go down,
and every captive may be free”. .. .C.S.P.: Glad to
receive verses, but not in French... .1.L.1.: It’s
certainly flat... .C.8.H.: Too long. .. ,M.T.; Such
lines as “Her winged propellers tread the march of
nations’ intercourse” leave us frigid... .5.1. L.: It
isn’t verse... .Marjory L.: Immature. .. .F.J.C.:
Started well; last verse weak, flyblown effort....
Cal G.: Too artificial. We like our lamb with meant
sauce... .R.C.H.: Unconvincing. .. .G. 8.: Don’t care
for your sonnet... .Munro H.: The memories have a
too-familiar tinkle... .W.L.: “The deaf composer on
his death-bed lies, a hundred years ago,” is a strange
blend... .Ivy G.: The sad tree bears no fruit....
H.L.A.: The feeling remains vague....lvy S.: Very
weak... .H.E.: No literary value... .H.W.: Good
atmosphere; but the “Incident” is really nothing
more... .E.C.W.: An Australian flavor is essential.
... . J.S.D.: The yarn is very rough carpentering....
J.S.L.: The Llywelyn Lucas verses were, of course, a
paraphrase; the theme was worked out to a
different conclusion... .K.C.8.G.: If you can stress
“portmanteau” so as to make a decent rhyme for
“afterglow” you can do anything. And we notice
that you did it. .. .G.R.C.: Yes, it has a climax, all
right—like the bang of the big drum and cymbals
•when the clown falls at the circus. .. .E.J.M.:
Terrible dirge. .. .Pat: Why will you rhyme “Aus
tralia” with “failure” ?... .R.C.: Your shots fre
quently get near the bull’s-eye, but never hit it....
G. : The comparison could be made more tersely,
Keep on. .. .Marjorie T.: Very tame affair... .H.M.:
It’s a hot-house plant, much too forced. .. .E.E.: No.
.... A.R.: They find a good colt and win a race—-
there’s not even a paragraph of suspense in the
narrative... .Ydna: The form is awkward.... Ivy
H. : Too slight. .. .Cam G.: We’d like you if you
could get this down to verse compass:—
Oh, Dawn as streaky as a t»con rasher,
With countenance as pale as any haberdasher.
.... Ger M.: It would take toj much time to blow
the froth off your “Beer”.... Jim McC.: Great idea
badly handled. Try to recast • - .Vio: Its points
are those of the fretful porcupine... .E.8.J.: Make
the issues clearer. Not every reader knows nli
about mining, and the point would be hazy to man}.
....Diana G. (Papua): Last verse lets it down....
Daub: The office-boy is still sobbing over the death
of the dog that was “Just a cur from the dregs of
time”... .E.E.: A mere drift of vapor... .P.E.R.:
Too slight... .R.D.: First time we’ve heard it called
“healthy heaven’s holy blue”.... Old B.: There are
rough roads in “Ballarat”. .. .A.K.8.: “The Navvv’s
Lament” is pick-and-shovel work... .McR.: Ship-
wrecked. . . .C.F.T.: Suffers from footrot. .. . J. 8.: we
were getting interested until the fire occurred. That’s
not the right ending.... A.C.L.: Not suitable....
A.R.: Method of telling loses interest.
TO ARTISTIC (AND INARTISTIC)
COUR ESI’ON HUNTS.
R.C.H.: Alliterative pun and Chinese sketch tossed
0ut.... H.M.: Dislike your men with the exaggerated
chins... .P.U.P.: Neither pleased the eye nor tickled
the ribs. ...H.M. (W.A.): Your prospector's head
beats the face on the bar-room floor for horrors....
M.G.: Similar joke printed recently... .J.S.: Was it
done with a fork dipped in tar?. .. .G.H.: Ghastly.
. ...5.8.: Turn the cold shower on your horrible
child... .F.T.: Getting nearer. .. .11. K.: Couldn't
stand the escort with the crumpled left arm....
A.H.G.: No merit. .. .N.R.: Can’t imagine anyone
paying to watch that pair. ... J.H.: Your children
are nightmares... .M.F.G.: Promising in patches;
weak in anatomical knowledge... .K.F.: The painter
lady has a Neanderthaloid skull. .. .R.S.R.: Car due
for the scraplieap... .M.A.N.: Send cloudy ammonia
gag to the Pharmaceutical News Walgee: Cut
out silhouettes and get down to linework. . . .W.A.H.;
Resembles a collision between flying-foxes.


Ya
m
i
A Good Investment
Careful buyers recognise Graham
Brothers name on a Truck or Bus as
a symbol of satisfactory performance
and extra value. Quality is higher than
ever before, prices lowest in Graham
Brothers history. Consequently world-
wide demand is constantly and rapidly
increasing.
Graham Brothers Trucks, with Dodge Brothers i-Ton
Commercial Cars, meet 9TU of all hauling requirements,
1-Ton Chassis, £325; IJ-Ton Chassis, £445;
2-Ton Chassis, £485.
Waymouth Motor Co., Ltd.,
42-48 Waymouth Street,
Adelaide.
Winterbottom Motor Co., Ltd.,
199 St. George’s Terrace,
Austral Motors, Ltd.,
Brisbane and Townsville.
The Standardised Motors, Ltd.,
256 Castlereagh Street,
Sydney.
Canada Cycle & Motor Co. (Victoria) Pty., Ltd.,
352-58 Latrobe Street,
Melbourne.
Graham Brothers
Trucks and Buses
SOLD BY DODGE BROTHERS DEALERS EVERYWHERE
!7/2/’27


The
Bids
for
Him
\ ■
J
may not start on the light level, but they will finish
on the right basis if he is offered at Winchcombe,
Carson’s sale.
The firm’s determination as stock salesmen never
swerves from that goal. And Winchcombe, Carson
have the energy, skill and experience to constantly
reach it. For highest prices—
CONSIGN SHEEP, LAMBS AND CATTLE TO
WINCHCOMBE,CARSON
LTD,
Homebush Yards,
Sydney.
or
Enoggera Yards,
Brisbane.
[l
A IJ, AUSTRALIANS visiting London
** should read the British Australian
and New Zealander, 6d. weekly—an illus-
trated paper containing mail and cable news
from Australia and news of Australians in
Europe and at home. Australians are cordi-
ally invited to visit the British Australian
and New Zealander Reading-room at the
Offices, 414-17 Australia House, Strand,
London, WC.2, where they can see the home
papers, meet their friends, use the telephone
and obtain information without charge.
Copies of the paper and general information
can be obtained at the Australian Advertis-
ing Agency, Ltd., 350 George Street, Sydney;
or 434 Collins Street, Melbourne.
iJwrAl!
M
actual 5121
The cigar foi
particular
smokers.
AH Hotels and
Tobacconists.
6d. each
10 cigars, 6/-
25, 12/6
50, 23/9
100, 46/-
Post paid to auj
address.
Sampler Box,
containing; two
cigars, 1/- post
free.
CRAIG 8 AITKEN,
6548 George Street
Sydney,
Distributors for
Club Reil
Cigar
Factory.
WANT TO MAKE
MONEY ?
“The ‘Wild Cat’
Monthly,”
published on the first Saturday of
every month, will help you in your
dealings with shares.
Hundreds of thousands of pounds
are lost annually in Wild Cat com-
panies. “The ‘Wild Cat’ Monthly”
will help you to identify them.
As valuable for the Smallest
Investor as for the Largest. In fact,
the small investor needs it most
Published by “The Bulletin/’ 2/-
per single copy; 22/6 per annum.
Ericsson Telephone Mfg. Co.
(Formerly James Paton & Co.)
Sole Importers of the Famous Ericsson Telephone and Switchboard
Apparatus, for Magneto, Common Battery and Automatic Working.
WIRELESS APPARATUS,
19 YORK STREET, SYDNEY; 509 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE.
Visitors to Brisbane! Book up at the
HOTEL CECIL
(FIRST CLASS)
Reasonable Tariff—Good Position.
Indigestion !
That s its name, INDIGESTION—the enemy of health and all which
make for happiness and contentment and the joy of living.
But why allow this distressing, spirit-reducing complaint to hold
sway over you! Why allow yourself to be dejected and despondent
to go through life with a peaked face and run-down look, when
at the nearest Store or Pharmacy you can purchase a bottle of
that renowned Indigestion Remedy:
KRUSE’S .
FluidH#^
Even one dose of this sterling preparation will convince you of
its genuine character.
KRUSE’S FLUID MAGNESIA will gently—but surely—expel from
your system the cause of your digestive ailments. It will make
for health and wholesomeness in the stomach, sweeten the breath,
Cool and purify the blood, and induce the feeling of
fitness and keenness of early youth.
mmm
iiliii
m
mm
SOLD EVERYWHERE
For Family usfe the targe bottles
tit 2/9 each rtiorfe economical.
KRUSE'S benefits people of all ages j and is the purest, safest,
iHd most reliable medicine you can take for an upset stomach.
MADE BY
FELTON, GRIMWADE & CO. PTY. LTD.
MELBOURNE.
fiik
US:
■> mm
I
Discard your
shortly stick, bmsh&my
Shavex is modem
/ mans method /
NO longer need a man be
bothered with the old-
time impediments of
shaving—Soaps, Brushes, and
mugs are things of the past.
Now Shavex —obtain-
able everywhere—is the
choice of men who appre-
ciate speed, ease and com-
fort in shaving* They
just squeeze a little from
the tube and lightly smear
it on the wetted beard,
without rubbing, for
Shavex is so com-
pounded that its fine con-
stituents soften the hairs
immediately on contact*
One swift, smooth sweep of the razor leaves the skin clean and silky—
just visualise the advantages—a squeeze from the tube, smearing, and
ready to shave ! Go to your chemist, hairdresser, or store to-day, and
ask for a tube of this marvellous preparation; you will never go back
to the old ** barbarian ” method. The Zeekol Mfg. Co., London, Eng.
FREE SAMPLE —A Free Sample on receipt of 3d. stamp from
Sole Australian Agents :
SALMOND & SPRAGGON (Australia), Ltd.,
(Dept. ), Eagle and Globe Buildings, 379 Kent Street, SYDNEY.
SHAVEX
"THE MODERN WAY" NO BRUSH, NO SOAP, NO PAIN
Large Tube 1/9 Larger Size (Double Quantity) 2/6
©•
Business, Robbery, etc.
“Loco”: The lure of the locomotive is still
felt by young fellows, notwithstanding the
counter-attractions of motors and aeroplanes.
At a Vic. country locomotive depot, where
new hands have been employed for the busy
season, the recruits include two ex-teachers,
a former Customs clerk, an ex-banker, an
ex-draper and an ex-baker. These are now
engine-cleaners, and have visions of rising to
the footplate some day. In blue overalls,
black and greasy from head to foot, they
must feel far removed from their former
dainty occupations ; but they seem to enjoy it.
* * * a
“Querty”: The. Sydney factory of the
Gramophone Co., Ltd., has celebrated the
first anniversary of the establishment of a
very efficient and useful Australian industry.
Situated at Erskineville, it provides work
for hundreds of skilled toilers and produces
assorted noises just as nice as the output
of the parent co. Governor de Chair sug-
gested that the Australian gramophone should
be placed in all our schools to inculcate a
widespread taste for music. An even much
more valuable use for “His Master’s Austra-
lian Voice” would be to provide records in every
school for the speaking of good vocal and
grammatical English.
* * a #
“Six and Eight”: If “5.0.” (B. 13/l/’27)
attended the Sydney Technical College engi-
neering classes he would learn that it is
approved engineering practice to use sulphur
to set iron railings in a stone parapet. Sul-
phur expands on cooling, while lead con-
tracts ; so it was not a scarcity of lead but
a determination to do the job in the best
way which prompted “S.C.’s” workman to
use sulphur. In jobs where rag bolts are
used, as in fixing electric signs, a sulphur
setting is common.
* * * #
“B. J.H.”: American breeders are engaged
upon the production of a tailless sheep. A
fat-rump breed from Siberia is being experi-
mented with, and 80 per cent, of lambs bred
on other strains are tailless, have lost the
fat rump, and carry better wool than the
Siberian side of the family. Whether the
abolition of tail docking will cut costs as
much as the experimenters hope is another
matter. What Australia euphemistically
styles “lamb-marking” includes one other
imperative operation which is done at the
same time as tailing. The cost of the
double operation is no higher than that of
the single one which cannot be avoided.
“Choco” : The sella-da-fruit business suffers
more from alien invasion in Australia and
Maoriland than any other. In Sydney the
Greeks have a strong hold ; in Brisbane the
Italians have practically captured the retail
trade; in Melbourne the Assyrians have
come down like a wolf on the fold, and in
Auckland (M.L.) the Chinese and the Aus-
trians are squabbling over the carcase. The
Chinese have it all their own way in the
Maoriland capital and have got one leg in
at Christchurch, but Dunedin continues to
get its tomatoes and bananas from McTavish.
Pigtailed gentlemen who have tried their luck
there have come away with a profound
respect for the trading ability of McTavish.
* * * *
“Country Ped.” : I am not going to doubt
“Anti-Humbug’s” contention that the total
weight of wheat at discharging points is
less over a season than the weight of wheat
at receiving stations (B. 13/l/’27). But
I know that one farmer congratulates him-
selr on storing his last season’s wheat in
a mouse-and-sparrow-proof barn at home,
since it gained in weight (and he Carefully
checked the in and out weights) at the rate
of one bushel to six bags—about one-
eighteenth, and this in a dry area. At the
same time his friend bewailed his foolishness
in sending his wheat to be stored in Mel-
bourne, as he was paid only on country-
station weights less storage charges.
* * * *
“Malaish” : A firm sent a bottle of a new
patent medicine to a country storekeeper and
got this reply: “My patient with rheumatics
died; I don’t know if was before or after
taking the medicirfe. I have two other
prospective customers for the stuff, but one
has dealt for years with me while the other
deals with the opposition, so I’ll try the
latter first. If I cure liim we will get
his custom for the future, and if he dies the
other people will be the losers.”
* * * #
“Avon” : Anticipations of a harder money
market in Maoriland are strengthened by the
December quarter banking averages. It is
a quarter in which there are always heavier
advances than usual, to finance Christmas
trade, but compared with the previous year’s
December quarter there is a falling-off of
£3,000,000 in deposits and an increase of
£2,700,000 in advances. At the same time
the note circulation (in Maoriland controlled
by the private banks) has been reduced
by nearly £200,000, approximately 7 per cent,
of the total. Trade returns show a slight
slackening of the rate of importation, and
the curtailment of banking credit fore-
shadowed by the latest averages will enforce
a further degree of abstinence.
* * * *
“White Leghorn” : Re egg-production costs
and a recent broadcast statement that
“allowing a basic wage, they show a loss
of 3d. a dozen to the farmer.” Rubbish! At
least a dozen of my neighbors, chook- and
citrus-chasers, have lately bought motor-cars
out of their losses. Hens on the dry mash
system require very little attention and are
a life-saver to the citrus-grower, particularly
if on sandy loam, making hired orchard hands
unnecessary, so that any profit over cost of
feed is to the good. Intensive housing with dry
mash is the second method in order of profit.
It is quite true that fowls in yards with
wet mash and hired labor are not profitable
on the basic-wage system. Take an instance
of a man aged 64 and his wife, 60, with a
daughter of 15. On the basis of 800 hens
on five acres, the income was £7OO a year
from eggs and old hens. The cost of feed,
etc., amounted to £4OO. That makes £3OO
net per year for three people. It is not
prosperity. “But where could we do better?”
the old man is always asking me. He knows,
too, that, as to the cost of living, a pound
in the outer suburbs or bush goes further
than two pounds in Sydney or the near-in
suburbs.


Miss Strella Wilson—
The Queen of Song-
Praises
REXONA SOAP
**&%&**" *“ " -**•£*?«>*
i& **%%£*>
m&zs
mm*.
*%
SfoM*.
«*W
m’
wm
if i
tf*
m
fom
m
f**
r*£
a
I#
f#*
'
■
.»*«
ill
■
ill
m
ttx
ms
m
m
im
m i
■
»#
is*
ill
wi
\%|
Hi
*%*
sii
ii
iri
#
:%
&
i
HMi
*
H
mm
> < j
Miss Strella Wilson, now
appearing with such
marked success in the Gil-
bert and Sullivan operas
at the Theatre Royal,
Sydney, uses only Rexona
Soap and writes us as fol-
lows:—“When travelling,
1 have found hard water
and cold climates very
hard on my skin and com-
plexion. Now I use only
Rexona Soap and 1 find it
not only cleanses but stops
irritation and has im-
proved my complexion
beyond all recognition.”
<s
0
Two Beautiful
Studies of
Miss Strella Wilson,
a Charming User
of Rexona Soap.
Girls! a Beautiful Skin is Your Greatest
Charm —Use only REXONA SOAP
There is nothing more beautiful than a perfect skin, clear, soft and healthy—that is the kind of skin that compels admiration. If you
have become discouraged of ever attaining a perfect complexion and have used various creams and treatments and your skin is still
sallow, oily, coarse or blotchy, try Rexona Soap. You will be both amazed and delighted to find what a difference this pure super-
excellent facial soap will make to your complexion. Doubtless, it seems incredible to you that anything so simple as daily bathing
the face with Rexona Soap and fresh water could make such an improvement in the skin when so many other complexion treatments
have failed to do so, yet you will find that such is the case, because Rexona Soap contains, in addition to its usual cleansing qualities,
all the soothing, healing, corrective properties contained in Rexona, the Rapid Healer, so that its use quickly overcomes any facial
imperfections.
After using Rexona Soap you will feel that your skin has been refreshed and
invigorated to the very depths of its tiny pores and you will inhale the delightful
outdoor freshness of the Rexona fragrance that is typical of Rexona itself. Use
Rexona Soap with hot or cold water, soft or hard water. It is always good and
gives abundant foamy lather in every case. Use Rexona Soap for Health and
Beauty and be a Rexona Girl. Rexona Soap—the best soap that it is possible
to produce.
duo £ Tnierxw
Large Tablets


A Charming
fz.
■
Reflection
Is Obtained by Using
Cuticara Soap
Daily, assisted by Cuticura Oint-
ment when required. It keeps the
pores active, the skin clear and free
from eruptions and the scalp in a
healthy hair-growing condition.
Soap Is.,Talcum ls.3d. t Ointment Is. and
2s. For sample Soap and Ointment ad-
dress; '“R.Towns&Co.,Sydney, N.S.W.”
Cuticura Shaving Stick Is. 6d.
GOLFERS—IT PAYS TO PLAY
THE SUPER
CHALLENGER
The Ball that makes good golf a certainty.
Sole Wholesale Distributors:
NORMAN L. BURNELL & CO. (N.S.W.), Ltd.
Sydney, Melbourne. Adelaide, Brisbane, Perth. [2
RUPTURE.
A FREE TRIAL.
y°“ ~ re troubled with the complaint, write us and
we will send you our catalogue, fully describing our
PATENT AIR CUSHION APPLIANCE.
1 "I* appliance does away with all cumbersome
springs, giving a feeling of ease and comfort from the
hrst day s use. It is the most scientific ap.pliance yet
invented for this complaint. It will hold a rupture
firmly and comlortably under all conditions.
To prove what we state
WE OFFER TO SEND IT TO YOU
ON A FREE TRIAL.
If it i* not satisfactory we do not expect you to keep
it, and the trial costs you nothing. It is suitable for
men, women and children, and the price is within
the reach of all.
ILLUSTRATED CATALOGUE
posted free anywhere.
THE WINSLOW CO.
1W Street, Melbourne, Vic.
Macmillan’s
NEW BOOKS.
The prices advertised are those at which the
books are published in London. Prices outside
the liritish Isles must be fixed by the importing
bookseller.
DOMINIONS EDITION.
Debits and Credits,
BY
RUDYARD KIPLING.
Also Uniform Edition, 7s. 6d. net.
Pocket Edition, Cloth, 6s. net.
Leather, 7s. 6d. net.
Reality: A New Correlation of
Science and Religion. By CANON
BURNETT HILLMAN
STREETER. Bs. 6d. net.
The Times Literary Supplement: “A brilliant
survey of the field of thought as it appears to-
day ; more than that, it is a brilliant strategic
occupation of it in the interests of a spiritual
philosophy.”
A Short History of Marriage. By
EDWARD WESTERMARCK,
Ph.D. 10s. 6d. net.
New Statesman: “Those who had neither
the leisure nor the courage to face the three
volumes of Dr. Westermarck’s monumental
‘History of Human Marriage’ should welcome
this shorter monograph.”
The Golden Treasury. By F. T.
PALGRAYE. New Impression,
with a Fifth Book selected by
LAURENCE BINYON. 3s. 6d.
net. Leather, ss. net.
The Times Literary Supplement: “By his
choice and arrangement of the poems of this
book, Mr. Bin,yon has temporarily completed
‘The Golden Treasury’ and permanently im-
proved it.”
To bo Obtained from all
Booksellers.
MACMILLAN & CO. LTD.
MELBOURNE & LONDON, W.C.2
QN
BANK
THE QUEENSLAND NATIONAL BANK, LIMITED.
Incorporated under the Companies Act 1863. Established 1872.
Directors —A. C. I.uya, Esq., Chairman; James Love, Esq.; W. H. Hart, Esq-
M. J. Ryan, Esq. ; D. W. Macdonald, Esq.
General Manager —M. G. HAYMEN.
HEAD OFFICE BRISBANE
With offices at London, Canberra (Federal Territory), Melbourne, Sydney, and
95 branches in Queensland and Northern Rivers, N. S. Wales, also representation
through the leading Banking Institutions covering Australasia and the World, this
Bank offers the fullest facilities for the transaction of all general banking business.
3
:
3
-
3
=<
W
*YMYmYmYmY2ZEZ
df
POLISHES—PRESERVES—-PREVENTS CRACKS
BOSTOCK’S Shoe Creams are made in all
principal shades, and especially noted for the
New Shade of Bois-de-Rose, Putty, Sunburn
and Oak.
Price 6 d. per tube* Obtainable Everywhere •
<o?3i4
IVORY-
TIPPED
or PLAIN
How can De Reszkes be
sold at 10 for ninepence?
Thousands have been asking that question. For
years they have known De Reszkes as rather expen-
sive cigarettes of a very high grade. Are the new
De Reszke Virginias , they wonder, really and truly
De Reszkes, possessing the distinctive qualities im-
plied in that honoured name ?
That doubt is quickly dispelled. As soon as you
have tried your first packet, you know for certain
that De Reszkes Virginia <•, at ten for ninepence,
fulfil the essential De Reszke requirement—which
is that every cigarette bearing the name must be the
very best in its class . And that is your guarantee
that the new cigarettes will always keep their present
high quality.
De Res zke
(popularly pronounced “ DE RES-KEY ”)
Vir ginias
TWENTY FOR ONE AND SIX
In 10’s, 20’s , 50’s and 100’s
MILLHOFF 8c CO. LTD., 86, PICCADILLY, LONDON, W.l
Agents for N. S. Wales: DALGETY & COMPANY LTD.
of course ”
J.
Nine years ago a shell explosion at Bailleul
stripped the flesh off the face of a First
Battalion Digger, G. L. Buchanan. Gradu-
ally, with infinite pains—and pain—the face
has been restored with bits of bone and
strips of flesh from other parts of the Dig-
ger’s body. It has taken 25 operations
altogether, but the Digger has now a face
that shows only a few surgical scars. No
skill could restore an eye that was destroyed
in the smash, and it is doubtful whether the
failing sight of the other eye, which was also
injured, can be maintained for long.
Buchanan, who is a permanent invalid, gets
a special pension.
Two brothers in Dunedin (M.L.), Adam
and Neil Scott, who migrated from Scotland
two or three years ago, are returning shortly
to claim a marquisate, a castle on the Firth
of Forth, a brewery, a distillery and a coal-
mine, together with other assets valued at
about a million sterling. They claim to be
descended from the royal line of Stuart, and
say their maternal grandmother can prove
that she is in direct line of succession to the
Scott marquisate, long in abeyance. If the
Courts uphold the claim, Adam, the elder,
win be a "marquis. In the meantime he has
a job as storeman in a tobacco warehouse,
and his brother drives a motor-truck.
The New Lib. party, just launched in
Melbourne, includes a past-president of the
Melbourne Club, a one-time panjandrum of
a labor union, a former president of the
Royal Agricultural Society and an ex-member
of both the Reps, and the State Assembly.
There is a good deal of “X” about the outfit,
but it is expected to last till the April elec-
tion. Ferguson, the secretary-organiser, was
formerly on the Age, Herald and Truth
staffs in Melbourne. He is game and ener-
getic, but it is impossible to organise suffi-
ciently to do anything worth while in 10
weeks.
The decayed mining town of Menzies
(W.A.), which will continue to return a
member to the Leg. Assembly next month
although there are only 307 names on the
rolls, and it is doubtful if half that number
could be scraped up to vote, saw some stirring
election fights in its early days. Harry
Gregory and Hugh Mahon were the town’s
first two rival candidates, both for mayoralty
and Parliamentary membership. Gregory
came out on top in both contests, but Mahon
was consoled with a F'ederal seat (Cool-
gardie) in 1901. Gregory held Menzies,
though he had to fight desperately for it, from
1897 to 1911, when Labor at last bumped him
out. He, too, found a Federal seat two years
later, and the man he defeated for Dampier
was Mahon. At the next redistribution of
seats Menzies must inevitably go ; it should
have gone a dozen years ago.,
“Larrapinta”: In the days when the old
tallow candle was extinguished by (say)
a sudden draught, a quick blowing of the
spark would cause the wick to relight again
(B. 27/l/’27), but it had to be done
promptly, as the fat creeping up the wick
would extinguish the spark in a few seconds.
The modern sperm candle has a plaited
wick, which does not fray as the candle
burns down. Instead, it burns outside the
flame, and the protruding part crumbles to
ash, which does away with the necessity
for snuffing. I suppose relighting a tallow
candle by blowing was an accomplishment
worth cultivating in the days of flint and
steel.
“Embryo”: Another Aussie making good
in America is Harry N. Holmes. His father
was a parson and he was born at Strath-
albyn (S.A.) in 1884. Joining the Y.M.C.A.
in Adelaide, Harry rose so rapidly that dur-
ing the war he was given charge of the
organisation on the Western front. The
World Alliance for Friendship through the
Churches now claims his time as secretary in
New York, and he has a ready welcome for
all Australians.
A gentle, companionable soul, whose know-
ledge was valued by astronomers all the
world over, went out across the void the other
day when J. T. Ward, of Wanganui (M.L.),
died. A bookseller by trade, Ward made the
study of the stars the absorbing passion of
his life, and the construction of telescopes
his special hobby; he owned the finest refrac-
ting telescope in Maoriland. He was honor-
ary director of the Wanganui Observatory
and a writer of several astronomical works.
“Strilo” : It was stated in a recent Bul-
letin par. that John Ridley was the inventor
of the stripper. He certainly put it to
practical use, but it was John Wrathall Bull
who made the model on which Ridley built
his machine. The first public trial took place
in 1843 at Unley (S.A.). Afterwards Ridley
had a machine working on an adjoining sec-
tion, but owing to the way it was driven, or
rather pushed, and the way the combs were
fixed, it drew up the wheat by the roots. The
machinist abandoned the work and made his
way to Dr. Everard’s paddock, where Bull
bad his machine working satisfactorily. After
inspecting Ridley’s contraption, he took it
home, and some days later returned it per-
fected. Bull’s method was to draw the
machine, and Ridley’s was to push it. Sub-
sequently the Government awarded Bull £250
for his original model.
The original “Johnny’s” grandson, George
Paterson Walker, who died at Putney Heath
(Eng.) recently, left £960,320. He was
chairman of directors of the famous whisky
firm, and practically all of the near-million
goes to help his family keep going strong.
The history of the softgoods business in
Maoriland centres in the firm of Ross and
Glendining. Jack Ross and Bob Glendining,
two serious young Scots, made up a partner-
ship in 1862. It was an importing concern
at the beginning, and the partners decided
that one of them ought to live at the buying
end. They tossed up, and Jack Ross won, or
lost. Anyway, lie went to live in London
and took with him as wife Maggie Oassels—
they married on the day they sailed. Since
then Ross has visited Maoriland 23 times
—and found the business bigger, better and
brighter every time. The Roslyn Woollen
Mills, which make some woollen goods better
than any factory in the world, are the firm’s
contribution to the establishment of manu-
factures in the country that made the prin-
cipals rich. Glendining died in 1917, but
12 years before that his partner had settled
permanently in Dunedin, leaving a son, John
Sutherland Ross, to take care of things at the
London end. Jack Ross died the other day,
92 years of age, a belted knight and a finan-
cial pillar of the kirk.


Shipping.
BRISBANE, via BYRON BAY
Through Tickets to Brisbane issued.
S.S. ORARA—Every Saturday evening; passengers
due Brisbane Monday afternoon.
S.S. WOLLONGBAR—Every Tuesday evening;
passengers due Brisbane Thursday afternoon.
Both vessels fitted with Wireless Receiving Sets,
BRISBANE:
FARES.—
Steamer and Motor throughout, Single, £4
Steamer and Motor throughout, Return, £7/5/-
Steamer and First-class Rail, Single, £3/15/-
Steamer and Second-class Rail, Single, £3/8/-
NORTH COAST S. N. CO., liTD.,
Passengers’ Booking Office:
TOURIST BUREAU, CHALLIS HOUSE,
MARTIN PLACE, SYDNEY.
Brisbane Booking Agents: Burns, Philp and Co., Ltd.
En Route to America Tarry Awhile in
HAW A I I
Or take a six to eight weeks’ Round Trip for
about £lOO to £l5O. No extra passage money
to stop off in Hawaii. Quaint tea-rooms and
gardens; all modern conveniences, good hotels
with meals, 12/- to £3 per day; apartments,
furnished cottages. Entire cost Sydney to
Honolulu and return (2 or 3 weeks in Hawaii),
and a day at Suva or Pago Pago, about £lOO.
Unique vacation; complete change in land of
music, sunshine, tropical coloring, fruits and
flowers. Balmy climate, golfing, tramping, out-
rigger canoeing, surf-board riding, outdoor
sports. Inter-island cruises. Ask nearest travel
agency or write Hawaii Tourist Bureau, Dept.
26, Box 241 D G.P.0., Sydney, N.S.W., for
beautifully colored booklet, enclosing this
advertisement.
See Lovely Hawaii This Year.
Banking, Public Companies, etc.
The Australian Bank of Commerce Limited
Authorised Capital £5,000,000
Capital Paid Up and Reserves .. .. £2,085,303
Aggregate Assets at 30th June, 1926 ..£16,789,590
Directors: Sir Mark Sheldon, K.8.E., Chairman;
Frank N. Yarwood ; Duncan Carson ; H R.
Lysaght, 0.8. E.; George J. Sly, LL.D.’; Lieut.-
Col. T. L. F. Rutledge.
General Manager: C. M. C. Shannon.
Chief Inspector for N.S.W.: W. G. Hull.
HEAD OFFICE, SYDNEY (Corner George and King
Streets).
Branches and Receiving Offices at 151 places in
New South Wales.
BRISBANE (264 Queen Street).
Chief Inspector for Queensland: L. Aveyard.
Manager: G. H. Howell.
Branches and Receiving Offices at 27 places in
Queensland.
MELBOURNE (325 Collins Street).
Manager: M. B. Finney.
ADELAIDE (35 Rundle Street).
Manager: R. T. Moodie.
PERTH, W.A. (73 St. George’s Terrace).
Manager: A. C. Dirdin.
LONDON (37 Threadneedle Street, E.C.2).
Manager: A. F. Jenkins.
London Directors ;
A. Dodds Fairiiairn, Alfred Shepherd.
Agents throughout Australia. Tasmania and New
Zealand, and at all the Chief Cities of the World.
Every description of Banking Business Transacted.
Bank of New Zealand.
SYDNEY BRANCH:
Corner GEORGE and WYNYARD
STREETS.
Guaranteed Stock.. .. .. £520,988
Preference Shares .. .. .. 1,876^000
Ordinary Shares . . .. .. 3,760[000
Reserve Fund and Undivided Profits 3 390,378
GRANTS DRAFTS
on Australia, New Zea-
land, Fiji, Samoa,
Great Britain and Ireland, and other places.
RECEIVES DEPOSITS
at interest for
fixed periods, and
transacts all other usual Banking business.
The Bank of Adelaide
(Incorporated 1865.)
Perth Office: St. George's Terrace.
Also, Fremantle, W.A.
Melbourne Office: 26“ Collins Street.
Sydney Office: 279 George Street.
Authorised Capital .. £2,000,000
Subscribed Capital .. 875,000
Paid Up Capital £875,000
Reserve Fund 800 000
Reserve liability of shareholders
£1,675,000
875,000
£2,550,000
Head Office: ADELAIDE, SOUTH AUSTRALIA.
Also 114 Branches and Agencies in South Australia.
London Office: 11 LEADENHALL STREET, E.c!
Agencies in all Australian States and throughout
the world.
Drafts and Letters of Credit issued on London,
America and elsewhere. Bills from abroad collected
and proceeds remitted. All usual banking business
transacted.
Australian Mutual
Established
1849.
Head Office:
87 Pitt St., Sydney
Provident Society
The Largest and Most Successful
Mutual Life Office in the British Empire,
Distributes a Cash Bonus Every Year.
Amount Distributed for single year 1925 £2,428,000
Vielding Reversionary Additions to
Policies of over £4,150,000
Accumulated Funds £60,000,000
Annual Income nearly .. .. .. £9,000,000
The Society transacts Every Class of Ordinary
and Industrial Assurance Business.
H. W. APPERLY, F.S.S.. General Manager.
Keep hopping and hoping if yon wish
to succeed think of
SCHUTE,
BELL&Cud.
If you have
Wool & Skins
to Sell.
Personal Attention.
Offices: 44 Bridge Street. Sydney.
df
Shipping, etc.
CANADA, UNITED STATES,
UNITED KINGDOM
FORTNIGHTLY SAILINGS FROM SYDNEY.
CANADIAN-AUSTRALASIAN ROYAL MAIL LINE
via Auckland, Suva (Fiji), Honolulu, Victoria and Vancouver.
UNION ROYAL MAIL LINE
via Wellington, Rarotonga, Tahiti and San Francisco.
MAKURA 13,300 tons disp. FEB. 24, for San Francisco.
AORANGI . . . 22,000 ,, ,, MARCH 10, for Vancouver.
TAHITI 13,300 ,, „ MARCH 24, for San Francisco
NIAGARA 18,600 „ „ APRIL 7, for Vancouver.
Fast and splen-
didly equipped
steamers using
oil fuel.
Spacious Decks,
Unrivalled
Cuisine.
;
m
r-
She Scenic
Routes to the
United King-
dom, via South
Sea Islands,
Canada, United
States.
TICKETS TO THE UNITED KINGDOM INTERCHANGEABLE FOlt RETURN
BY OTHER EINES.
SPECIAL HONOLULU EXCURSION FARES.
UNION STEAM SHU* CO.
/Union House, 247 George Street, Sydney.
\ William Street, Melbourne.
MACDONALD, HAMILTON & CO., Brisbane, Adelaide and Perth.
SOUTH SEA TOURS
Attractive Island Trips, occupying about Weeks.
SIX-WEEKLY SAILINGS FROM SYDNEY TO
No W Rritain- s - s - “MONTORO” (5000 tons).
” Ul noitt * Sails March 29 and May 10.
man S.S. MATARAM (3500 tons),
\joioHloll IMuflGSa Sails March 16 and April 27.
A Delightful Holiday in Island Wonderlands.
For Particulars apply—
BURNS, PHILP & CO., LTD.,
Sydney, Melbourne, Adelaide and Brisbane.
df
d
ďf
d
ď
BURNS, PHILP & CO., LTD.,
Passenger Booking Agents for All Steamship Lines
To
ENGLAND CANADA JAPAN
EUROPE AFRICA CHINA
AMERICA INDIA JAVA, etc.
At regular passage rates. No extra charge.
Attractive tour to
NOUMEA, JAVA, HONOLULU, COLOMBO, etc.
VISIT JAVA (The wonderland of the East).
Regular monthly sailings of the s.s. “Marella” and
m.s. “Malabar” to Java and Singapore via Queensland
ports, Thursday Island, Darwin, etc. Smooth water trip,
Deck Cabins, interesting ports of call.
APPLY
BURNS, PHILP & COMPANY, LIMITED,
WORLD TOUR and TRAVEL DEPARTMENT,
7 BRIDGE STREET, SYDNEY.
BANK OF
Paid-up Capital
Reserve Fund
Reserve Inability. -
NEW SOUTH
Established 1817.
jm.
Directors:
WALES.
£6,000,000
4,750,000
6,000,000
£16,750,000
Thomas Buckland, Esq., President.
The Hon Reginald J. Black, M.L.C.
Charles Binnie, Esq.
James Burns, Esq.
Robert L. Faithfull, Esq., M.D.
Robert W. Gillespie, Esq.
Franc B. S. Falkiner, Esq.
Auditors: W. H. Palmer, Esq.; S. E. Laidley, Esq. General Manager: OSCAR LINES.
Head Office —George Street, Sydney. London Office—29 Threadneedle Street, E.C. 2.
481 Branches and Agencies in the Australian States, New Zealand, Fiji, Papua, Mandated
Territory o£ New Guinea and London. Agents and Correspondents throughout the world.
Cable remittances made to, and drafts drawn on Foreign places DIRECT. Foreign Bills
negotiated and collected, Letters of Credit Issued, negotiable throughout the world.
The Commercial Banking Company
of Sydney Limited
ESTABLISHED 1834.
CAPITAL PAID UP £3,500,000 0 0
RESERVE FUND ------- 3,000,000 0 0
RESERVE CAPITAL 3,500,000 0 0
£10,000,000 0 0
Directors:
GEORGE J. COHEN, Chairman; Hon. SIR THOMAS HUGHES, M.L.C., Deputy
Chairman: Hon. JAMES ASHTON, M.L.C.; Major-General the Hon. J. W.
MACARTHUR ONSLOW, V.D., M.L.C.; Sir WILLIAM VICARS, K. 8., C.B.E.
General Manager: J. R. DRYHURST.
HEAD OFFICE: Sydney, 343 George Street.
London Office.—lB Birchin Lane, Lombard Street, E.C.3.
Branches throughout New South Wales and Queensland. Agencies
throughout Australia and New Zealand, and all other parts of the World.
All Classes of General Banking and Exchange Business Transacted.
SAFE DEPOSIT VAULTS.—lnspection invited. Particulars of
Safe Rentals on application.
Shipping, etc.
Inter-State Steamship
Sailings.
(Passenger Sailings—Circumstances permitting.)
for MELBOURNE, ADELAIDE and FREMANTLE
(Transhipping at Melbourne for Geelong and other
Victorian ports; at Adelaide for S.A. Gulf ports;
and at Fremantle for Perth, Bunbury, Gerald ton
and North-West Ports).
Steamer.
KOMB A LA..
(Melb. only)
ZEALANDIA.
(All Ports).
CANBERRA.
(Melb. only).
KAROOLA. . .
(All Ports).
DIMBOOLA. .
(All Ports.
BOMBALA. . .
(Melb. only).
I Leaves
I Sydney.
Leaves L , , ,
MelbourneP-Vd.ney Agents.
Howard Smith,
l.td., Kembla Big.
58 Margaret St.
Huddart Parker,
Ltd.,
10 Bridge Street
Howard, Smith,
Ltd., Kembla Big.
58 Margaret St.
Mcllwraith,
McEacharn, Ltd.,
61 Pitt Street.
M elbourne S.S. Co.
Ltd., Clarence and
Barrack Sts.
Howard Smith,
Ltd., Kembla Big.
58 Margaret St.
FOR QUEENSLAND PORTS
(Transhipping at Brisbane for Maryborough, Bunda-
berg and Gladstone, and at Townsville for outports).
Mackay (no cargo for Maclcay), Townsville
and Cairns.
Huddart ParkciLiM
Magnificent
Fast Passenger
Steamships
STEAMERS TO NEW ZEALAND —Regular sailings
from Sydney to New Zealand ports and vice versa.
Particulars to be obtained on application.
STEAMERS TO TASMANIA— Erom Sydney to Hobart
and vice versa as per daily papers. Between Mel-
bourne and Launceston as per daily papers.
For full particulars apply HUDDART PARKER LIMITED,
Collins Street, Melbourne; Bridge Street, Sydney.
Interstate Telegraphic address:
“NALDHAM.”
Cable address
“NALDHAM.’
Macdonald, Hamilton 8 Co.
247 George Street, Sydney.
Shipping Agents, Merchants, Colliery
Proprietors, Tug and Lighter Owners.
MANAGING AGENTS FOB
Australasian United Steam Navigation Co., Ltd.
Uitzroy Estates, Ltd.
Blackheath Collieries, Ltd., and Caledonian
Collieries, Ltd.
Eastern & Australian Steamship Co., Ltd.
AGENTS FOR
British-India S. N. Co., Ltd. P. & 0. S. N. Co.
Queensland line of Steamers. Scottish Shire Line
(Turnbull, Martin & Co.). New Zealand Shipping Co.,
Ltd. Canadian-Australasian Royal Mail Line, San
Francisco Service (Union S.S. Co.), Union S.S. Co.
of New Zealand, Ltd. Hain Line. Huddart Parker,
Ltd. London Assurance Corporation (Marine). Mel-
bourne Agents for Messageries Maritimes Co. Queens-
land Agents for Sea Insurance Co., Ltd.
BRANCHES at Perth, Fremantle, Adelaide, Port
Adelaide, Melbourne, Suva (Fiji), Brisbane, Mary-
borough, Bundaberg and 1 Bowen.
“The Woman’s Mirror”
Published every Tuesday
PRICE 3d.
It deals with every subject of
interest to women.
For your
Summer Vacation
HOTEL
KOSCIUSKO
(Altitude 5000 ft.)
Trout Fishing - - Golf,
Tennis and Croquet.
Motoring on excellent roads.
Petrol for sale and garage
accommodation available.
Summer Tariff:
From £5/5/- per week.
£1 per day.
Bookings and Further Particulars at —
N.S.W. Government
TOURIST BUREAU
Challis House, 8 Martin Place,
Sydney.


1927 Models
EVERY motor-cyclist and prospective motor-cyclist
should send for a copy of the new B.S.A. Motor
Bicycle catalogue.
It illustrates and describes the full range of B.S.A.
machines for 1927 —a range that offers even greater
value than before.
Every model includes front and rear internal expand-
ing hub brakes; new lubrication system, with special
oil feed to front chain; lower riding position; improved
silencer; screw adjustment to gear-box to facilitate
tightening front chain, etc. B.S.A. steering damper
and shock absorbers to front forks are fitted to
4.93-h.p. de Luxe, 5.57-h.p., 7.70-h.p. and 9.86-h.p.
models.
There are 13 models to choose from, in six engine
capacities, from 2.49-h.p. to 9.86-h.p., including two
new sporting models, the 3.49-h.p. O.H. V. Super-Sports
and the 4.93-h.p. O.H.V. machines.
Inspect these improved B.S.A. 1927 Models before
deciding on your new machine.
B.S.A. 2.49-h.p. de Luxe Motor Bicycle.
B.S.A. 3-speed gear-box, clutch, kick-starter,
grease-gun and mechanical lubrication, front
and rear internal expanding brakes, 5 jin.
diameter, 25in. x 2.75 in. tyres, etc.
B.S.A. 3.49-h.p. O.H.V. Motor Bicycle.
Highly efficient O.H.V. engine with valve gear
totally enclosed, B.S.A. 3-speed gear-box,
clutch, kick-starter, grease-gun and mechanical
lubrication, front and rear internal expanding
brakes, s%in. and 7in, diameter respectively,
etc.
Motor Bicycles
PRICES FROM £57/10|-
Send for the 1927 catalogue and particulars of Easy Payment Terms
AUSTRALIAN DISTRIBUTING AGENTS s
N.S.W. V
Q’LANDJ
BENNETT & WOOD, LTD.,
284- Pitt Street, Sydney.
VICTORIA- FINLAY BROS. MOTOR CYCLES
PTY., LTD.,
322 Elizabeth Street, Melbourne .
SOUTH AUS.-«/. N. TA YLOR & CO., LTD.,
121 Grenfell Street, Adelaide,
WEST AU S.-MORTLOCK BROS., LTD.,
890 Hay Street, Perth.
TASMANIA-s//w king pty., ltd.,
63 Brisbane Street, Launceston.
B.S.A. Sub-Agents Throughout Australia.
D. Y. RENNIE ( Factory Representative), 49 ELIZABETH STREET, MELBOURNE®
Lead the
on a BS A


“Plaza Tooth Paste is undoubtedly the best for
the teeth that I have ever come across. It nor
only cleanses, but it makes the teeth pearly. As
a preservative it has no rival on the
market.”
iuiao vVINNIE TREVAIJ..
44 Premier Street,
Marrickville, N.S.W.
*
PLAZA
TOOTH PASTE—
MADE WITH MILK OF MAGNESIA.
A Better Paste than you have ever used before
LARGE TUBES, 1/6.
<§
o
Chocolates
‘ I do like my Daddy—see
what he's brought me home!"
The Famous Red Box of Chocolates.
Mailed to you the day they are made.
Prices:
3/-, 5/6, 6/-, 10/-, 12/6,
20/- and 30/-
Post free to any address in Australia.
&n&6t HiliicJi
162-66 PITT STREET.
BRANCHES:
CR. GEORGE AND KING
STREETS;
CASTLEREAGH STREET
(Next Theatre Royal),
SYDNEY.
Send for catalogue illustrated
with reproductions of our con-
fectionery in colors.
a
HB
IS
w
The Castle Ruin.
[FOR THE BULLETIN. ]
HEY are dancing up in the castle ruin.
I I can see the yellow of candle-light
Blown like a moth-swarm on the night;
And where the stars through the rents look in
Is the wild, high voice of a violin.
They are dancing up in the castle ruin,
With a swing of hoops on a buckled knee.
Oh, a merry gathering of ghosts they be,
With powder clouding the scented air
From the high-piled hoops of m’lady’s hair!
The fiddlers play like a dream gone mad ;
And m’lord steps down from the gallows tree.
He was hanged right high, for the world
to see
The fate of rebels; his red-heeled slioon
Beat a lively tattoo across the moon.
And now they cross and cross again
The shell of floor, in a country dance.
He was ever a gallant to take a chance ;
And mv lady rose from the daisied mould
To find a mouth that was never cold.
And the black-browed Baron who courted
her—
He thought her his, when m’lord was hung—
Feels the old hate move on his withered
tongue,
And learns, what he came from the grave to
prove.
That he lied in vain for a woman’s love.
They are dancing there in the castle ruin.
It is like a flower on the rocky hill,
An orange bloom when the world is still,
With the wraith of candle and violin
And the rose of love, and the thorn of sin !
Their frenzied feet make the grey dust rise;
Brown bats fly down from the crumbling
beam;
There is rust of gold where the black pearls
gleam ;
For my lady rifled the elder chest
For the hidden jewels to guard her breast!
A witch, who rode from the mountain cave,
Halts her broomstick charger to peer within ;
And her leathern lips have a toothless grin ;
And her black cat purrs at the happy chance
Of a scurrying rat where the gay ghosts
dance!
Pawn points a finger athwart the hill;
And the gallows wait for m’lord’s bare bones.
Does my lady think that to-night atones,
As her ghostly lips on his ghost lips press,
For the long, long sleep of her loneliness?
They danced last night in the castle ruin,
Like a glowing lantern beneath the moon.
Ilow gaunt it looks in the light of noon!
No tap of heels on the riven floor
As the bats return through the fallen door :
If we climbed the steep at the full of day
Where the tattered webs of the spiders wind,
What treasure trove could a mortal find—
A ribbon knot that a sword split through?
A cloudy pearl from a satin shoe?
They danced last night in the castle ruin ;
And only the owl sits there to-day,
Watching the lizards bask and play ;
But the keys of my heart have locked within
The high, wild voice of a violin !
QUEENSLAND.
M. FORREST.
The Penitent of lle de Nou.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
WHEN Caron, Jules Caron, one time
of the Paris secret police, by deft
and delicate manipulation of cer-
tain political wires got himself appointed
sub-commandant to the penal settlement on
lie de Nou, New Caledonia, it would be diffi-
cult to say just what was his object in
seeking the appointment. For it was to
New Caledonia, mark you. New Caledonia!
The Parisian’s hell. The place bad French-
men go to when they die. Hundreds of
ultra-bad Frenchmen go there alive every
year. But they are unfortunate. For where
lives the man who would not prefer to die
and have done with it, rather than run the
course of a living death in a sea-girt penal
hell, where life is a misnomer and misery
bites deep?
And there you get back to it. Why did
Jules Caron try to get there? I don’t know.
I doubt if he himself could have told you.
Something outside, something greater than
himself, drove him to seek the appointment.
Perhaps the penultimate drop of blood of
his far-back animal ancestors. For at heart
Caron was an animal. How else can you
explain the desire of the man to deliberately
go out and lord it over his own kind when
the privilege of so doing meant severing him-
self from all the little social amenities which
make life worth living? For there are few
social amenities on New Caledonia. To be
noticeable.
As a tamer of human animals Caron was
a success. And they took some taming,
those men of lie de Nou. Apaches, gar-
rotters, body-snatchers. But Caron did it.
Not openly and before his superiors, but
quietly, leisurely, in his own way and in
his own time. The man who, secretly gagged,
stripped and thrown into an abysmal dun-
geon into which neither light nor sound ever
penetrated, its stone floor a noisome mess
of oozing slime, and left there for days with-
out either food or drink, was generally pretty
tame when he emerged. Especially as he was
restored to his wonted place as secretly as
he had been taken from it. Proof of ill-
treatment was difficult under such circum-
stances. And, in any case, definite proof
would have meant only something worse at
a more convenient time. So, you see, as a
man-tamer Caron was something of a suc-
cess. So much so that, before he had been
six months on the island, every man there
loved him—to his face. Behind liis back
they’d have knifed him, with a whoop of
delight to celebrate the consummation.
In all of lie de Nou there w 7 as but one
man whom Caron did not savage. This one
he coddled. For he was useful ; useful in
that he supplied Caron’s greatest want. Of
all things, Caron desired most the. sight of
the sufferings of others. And who could
possibly pander more to this desire than
number 498, the operator of the guillotine?
Of all the sufferings on lie de Nou the very
quintessence of human misery was reserved
for the eyes of the manipulator of the sliding
knife. For his eyes alone. Wherefore Caron
envied him. And what Caron envied Caron
achieved.
By a strange coincidence, or perhaps it
was not so strange, Caron and number 49S
were as alike as two new francs. Did not
his fellow-prisoners facetiously call number
498 Monsieur Caron, thereby rating him, you
will note, above Caron? Dressed in the
same clothes, it would have been impossible
to distinguish them. Attired in each other’s
clothes, it would have been equally impos-
sible to distinguish them. And that's exactly
what the animal in Caron prompted him to
do. To take a man and strap him to the
board; to feel his trembling as you drew
home the buckles; to listen to his whimper-
ings as you slid him out under the knife.
Ah, that was life! That was living. That
was worth the risk, the very small risk, of
the Commandant discovering that the man
dressed in the uniform of his sub-comman-
dant at executions was not his sub-comman-
dant. And the sub-commandant’s was an
easy part to play. Very easy. The pseudo-
sub-commandant had only to stand at atten-
tion while the pseudo-executioner shaved off
the prisoner’s head, and the risk of discovery
was slight. Very slight.
Putting the fear of God into 498 as to what
would happen should he bungle his job,
Caron changed over, so to speak, and put the
fear of God into both 498 and himself by
bungling his own part of the undertaking.
It was unfortunate. How was he to know
that on this particular morning of all morn-
ings the knife, instead of falling straight on
the prisoner’s neck as a good knife should,
should elect to fall sideways and merely
scalp the prisoner? Caron was upset. If,
as legend had it, that was the knife which
had cut off the head of Marie Antoinette,
Caron thought Marie should have considered
herself lucky. What the scalped prisoner
thought was never recorded.
But two years had passed since then.
Two years during which no hitch had
occurred in the strange conspiracy, and both
parties were satisfied. And why not? Where
both parties to a deal get their due there
should surely be satisfaction. While Caron
satiated his blood-lust, number 498 got his
pickings from the basket; and if they were
not always profitable offerings, those few-
mute and miserable possessions of the
sheared criminal which went into the basket
along with his head, that was no fault of
Caron’s. A vindictive parsimony of the
prisoner’s, rather.
Now it is impossible for a man to be
both executioner and executed and live to
talk about it afterward. But for this scien-
tific fact, the unholy alliance might have
continued to this day. One of the pair still
talks about it, but as regards the right and
the wrong of it, no man knows. As for
the Commandant, he declares that the sub-
commandant’s ravings clearly prove him to
be mad. And maybe he is right. For the
tale he tells is certainly far-fetched for a
rational man.
Number 498 was to die. Striking a man
dead in the exercise-yard one morning, the
culmination of a private grudge, 498, the
shaver of heads, the unholy husband of the
unholy Madame la Guillotine, was to have
his own head shaven. At six o’clock of the
morning the barbering was to take place.
At four of the same morning, that grim hour
when life’s grip is at its slackest, 498 lay
asleep in the condemned cell, his clothes in a
heap on the floor, while outside the moon
threw the mocking shadow of the guillotine
across the wall. While he slept, so 495,
who was officially executed that morning,
persists in telling the Commandant whenever
he can buttonhole him, he dreamed a dream
which threw light upon the twenty-five years
of darkness through which he had lived on
lie de Nou.
At the wave of sleep’s magic wand he was
back again, a young man, in Paris. In a
room lighted by a single shaded hanging-
lamp he stood, one of twelve masked men, at
a round, black-topped table, the surface of
which was 'marked as is the dial of a clock;
an hour-mark for each of the twelve men pre-
sent. Immaculately clad in full evening dress,
the twelve stood elbow to elbow around the
table, their eyes never wandering from the
fateful hand which revolved, ten revolutions
to the minute, round the surface. When at
length, after an eternity it seemed, it stopped
on number nine, 498, as he was to become
later, gave a sigh of relief. Number nine
was no concern of his in that Robbery Club
wherein no man knew the name of liis
fellow-member. The die was cast. Within
three weeks number nine must commit his
robbery and lay the proceeds on the club
table at its next meeting, or— —
Again 498 saw in his dream himself and
his younger brother Jules at work behind
the counter of the mammoth jewellery estab-
lishment which employed them in Paris. It
was a remarkable dream in which he stood
apart, detached, as if he were another being
and watched himself and Jules locking away
their precious stock for the night, for it was
closing time. Suddenly he saw them both
stand spellbound, arrested by a scrap of con-
versation which floated to them through the
thin wall of the manager’s adjoining office.
“This thieving,” the manager was saying to
his second-in-command, “it must stop. It
gets serious. Three robberies in three
months. We search the staff to-night.”
While the words left 498 unperturbed, a
look of horror spread over the features of
Jules. As a condemned man might look, he
looked, and all the time his hand plucked
nervously at his breast pocket. Aimlessly
and without reason he took up and replaced
articles of his stock, going to and from the
massive safe empty-handed as often as not.
Suddenly, as 498 stooped before the safe with
his coat-pocket gaping open, a look of inspira-
tion and relief flashed into Jules’s face.
With a quick, feline movement he crossed
to his brother’s side, his hand went quickly
from his own breast pocket to the gaping
pocket of 498, and that which a moment
before had hung on his soul like a hang-
man’s noose troubled him no more.
Six o’clock came, and, his work finished,
498 stood ready to depart. Let them search.
They would not catch him. Some other day.
perhaps, if he was not careful. But not
to-day. Assuredly not to-day.
Serene in his virtue, 498 stood by while
the manager, with deft fingers, went through
(Continued on next page.)


, ,v Zb
Jk
m
Xi
&
%
“Every Picture
Tells a S tory n
Why Endure That
Aching Back?
DOES your back ache day after day with a dull,
unceasing throb? Do sharp, rheumatic pains
torture you at every sudden move? Are you so tired
and nervous it seems you can never be well again?
Then look to your kidneys! The kidneys, you
know, are the blood-filters. Once they weaken,
poisons are apt to accumulate that healthy kidneys
would have filtered off. Then comes constant back-
ache, headaches, dizziness and kidney irregularities.
One feels lame, stiff and achy—years older than he is.
Don t risk neglect! Help the kidneys with a reliable kidney medicine. Use Doan’s Backache
Kidney Pills, the remedy home folks recommend. Ask your neighbor!
EXPERIENCES OF SYDNEY PEOPLE
illiams, 602 Botany Road, Botany, Sydney, says:—“l was
a great sufferer with my back and the pain was at times so bad that I had
to leave my work and go home. I was bent almost double and could not
stand up straight Without increased suffering. I used various preparations,
Dut only got slight relief. Reading of cures effected by Doan’s Backache
mdney Bills, I decided to try them. One bottle eased the pain and the
second completed my cure. This did not happen yesterday, but about twe
yeais ago, and I have had no sign of backache all that time, so it is not
mere temporary relief, but a perfect cure. I am always advising my friends
to use Doans Back’die Kidney Pills, and am glad to have an opportunity
to publicly recommend them.”
Twelve years later Mrs. Williams says:—“My husband is still well
and lias been free of backache since Doan’s Backache Kidney Pills cured him
14 years ago.
Mrs. W. Sullivan, 61 Kellick Street, Waterloo, Sydney, says: I
suffered terribly with my kidneys for some time. I liad terrible pains m
my back and could hardly move without suffering torture. I was also subject
to bad headaches, dizzy feelings, and had urinary trouble, the secretions being
thick and cloudy and difficult to pass. Nothing I took seemed to suit my
case, and I suffered on in spite of treatment; but at last I got a good remedy,
and that was Doan’s Backache Kidney Pills. A friend advised me to take
a course of these Pills, which I did, and I am pleased to say they cured
me of every distressing symptom mentioned. I used 10 bottles m all, and
my cure is perfect, for I have been as right as rain for the last 12 months.
Ten years later Mrs. Sullivan says : —“Doan’s Backache Kidney Pills
cured me of backache and kidney trouble 11 years ago, and I am still w ell ‘
I always keep this remedy by me and take a dose or so now and then, just
as a help to the kidneys.”
f
Kidney
PILLS
Price 2/9 per bottle, at
all Chemists and Stores,
or from Foster-McClellan
Co., 15 Hamilton Street,
Sydney.
the pockets of his brother. 498 had no fear
for him. Wayward, certainly; wild, yes, a
little; but he was no thief. Monsieur the
manager was merely wasting his time on Jules.
And now it was liis own turn. Nonsense,
of course. But, ah well, he supposed he
must go through it. At least it would allay
suspicion against the day when he might not
be quite so innocent. It was taking up his
time when he could be on his way home;
but, ah well—- Mother of Jesus! What
was wrong? Was he dreaming? From his
pocket the manager had extracted a pearl
necklace of almost priceless value, a necklace
made to the special order of an English
duchess. Blood of the saints! From his
pocket! A pearl necklace. His pocket!
And on this day when he was feeling so
supremely virtuous.
From the opening of the trial it was hope-
less. There was no defence. There could be
no defence. He had been caught red-handed.
And, besides, it was a wealthy firm, and he
had to be made an example of. Almost as if
they were nectar, the Judge seemed to mouth
the words. “To New Caledonia for Life.”
New Caledonia!
It was at this point that 498 awoke, to
see the first grey light of dawn creeping in
through the grill of the condemned cell, and
to an understanding of the trick which,
twenty-five years ago, had sent him to a
life of hell for the remainder of his. days. The
trick itself was dastardly. That his own
brother should have played it upon him
was beyond all works and thought. There
could be no
A voice at the door arrested him.
“You have slept well,” it said. “Before
you dress, while the mercy of sleep is yet a
little upon you, as a favor to a doomed man,
will you pray for me?”
Sitting up, wide awake now, 498 stared,
incredulous, at the man against the door.
It was prisoner 498. Prisoner 498 who was
to have his head cut off within the hour, and
was now asking him for his prayers. To
the minutest detail of face, figure
and attire it was 498. But if it
was 498, who then was he? Momentarily
confused, bewildered, racked with doubt, 498
pressed his hand hopelessly and wearily
across his eyes. Then, his gaze resting on a
neat bundle of clothes on the floor, he
laughed a hollow, mirthless laugh.
“I know, Jules,” he said, “but it won’t do.
It won’t do. At this execution we can’t
change places.”
“Jules!” said the man at the door. “Jules!
Who speaks of Jules? I am prisoner 498,
alias No. 9 of the Robbery Club, Paris,
ready and waiting to pay the price. Let’s
hear no more of Jules, Brother.”
The prisoners still speak of the barbering
of No. 498. In all the gruesome records of
lie de Nou, his was the only execution
boasting a comic relief. And the man in
his sleeping attire who followed 498 to the
block, crying that he was the real 498, was
certainly comical. Pathetically so.
But they would have none of him. As
sub-commandant he still reigns on lie de
Nou. But such a pathetic sub-commandant.
And so gentle.
G. L. THOMAS.
Night-Lights in Fitzroy.
[FOR THE BULLETIN. ]
OMMY LEWIS, late of Dogwood
Plains, but now of Gore-street, Fitz-
roy, came home from work. The
novelty of coming home to Gore-street" —
or of having a home, for that matter —
had not yet worn off, and he made quite a
fuss of it. He threw open his gate with
a flourish, wiped his boots vigorously on his
mat (fancy Tommy owning a doormat!),
rattled a latchkey in the lock and stepped
inside. An awkward pause. The expectant
smile on his face waned, for there was no
cry of greeting, no pretty rush into his
arms.
“Lou !” he called, softly, “where are you,
Chicken?”
The kitchen clock ticked noisily; but there
was no other sound. A kitten strolled out
into the lobby, and rubbed against his leg.
“Lou ! I’m famishing !”
Came a queer, stifled sound from the
living-room. Tommy burst in. Furniture
lay scattered, and on the floor lay a pitiable,
battered figure, with a face all patched
with blood.
“Lou!” he cried again, in terror, and
lifted his young wife with shaking hands.
Presently he fetched a doctor, who, know-
ing what to do, shut Tommy outside. It
was not his name she wildly called, but
“Duke! Duke!”
That was a night of nightmares. When
the day came Lou felt better. At least,
she was able to smile a little. Big Tommy
felt that the world had not come to an end,
after all.
“Who is ‘Duke’? Don’t tell me Duke
Murray came here?”
Lou seined strangely reluctant to speak
at all, but it was more than she could do
to hold out.
“It was.... Duke Murray.”
There was a pregnant silence. Everyone
knew Murray—a flash Fitzroy gangster who
had figured in more than one reign of terror.
His mere name was sufficient to open the
most hesitant of doors.
“It happened so quick, I can hardly remem-
ber. I was out, and when I came back
there he was waiting in the living-room. He
hit me once, and went away. That was
all. I felt dizzy, and must have fell against
something. That was’ a 11.... Then you
came.”
A hot surge of rage swept over Tommy.
“The cowardly swine! What made him do
that?”
Lou turned her face to the wall. She
understood the methods of Fitzroy; she had
lived there all her life. On the other hand,
Tommy, late of Dogwood Plains, did not.
But he had faith in Lou—utterly.
“It was over that brawl last Easter. Duke
Murray was in that.”
“What was that? You didn’t tell me?”
“Oh. well, that was before—before I met
you, Tommy. No need to worry you with
anything like that. Duke wanted me to fix
him a ‘queer’ alibi, see, but I wouldn’t; and
he was shot in for twelve months. He came
out yesterday.”
Tommy rose to his feet. Lou looked
alarmed.
“Now, Tommy boy, don’t you be doing any-
thing. He only hit me the once. Let it go.
I’ll be all right. Don’t you be getting mixed
up in anything.”
But he was in a white heat of anger, and
went out by the street door.
“Give me this job on my own,” he
demanded at the watch-house. “I want to
get this man.”
He would listen to no warning; he was too
youthful for that —a police constable of the
new school.
Half an hour after the issue of a warrant
Tommy met his man in broad Gertrude-
street in company with Flogger Dolan and
the Dingo. The three of them were fresh
from a rubberty-dub, all merry and bright.
He tried to “take” Duke single-handed, which
was brave, but rash.
Duke was surprised, to say the least of
it. His new hat was knocked off, and rolled
in the gutter. That was annoying.
“Snag the ——•, Flogger!” he snarled,
baring yelloiv teeth.
Flogger, the Dingo and a dozen more of
Duke’s offsiders who appeared from nowhere,
rushed Tommy, all anxious to put in the
boot; and soon he was forced to release
Duke. Then he fell, fighting for his life,
to the roadway. There followed a wild
scramble. A woman in the doorway of a fish-
shop screamed “The Fancier Johns are on
yer i”
Some way Tommy managed to get free,
and run, leaving a deal of blood and skin
behind. Having to do that rawed his soul.
He crept into the haven of quiet Gore-
street like a whipped dog; but, although his
hurt body ached for the cool touch of Lou’s
hands, he did not wake her.
When he went out after Duke again that
evening, he went armed, and with due
caution; he had learned his lesson.
One needs to be discreet at night in Young-
street, Fitzroy. It is a long lane of sordid
whisperings, stumblings, unexpected chinks
of light—a corridor through insecurity. Rain
fell steadily, turning the gutters into creeks,
and the footpaths under the caged street-
lamps into greasy yellow mirrors. Vague
shapes flittered hither and thither. Tommy
grasped one of them by the shoulder; it
was Tess o’ the Storm Country, under the
influence.
“Where’s Duke?”
“ ’Struth, Mister, yer got fingers like spikes !
I seen him go into Barney’s place, fightin’
cocky, not an hour since.”
Tommy flung off and ran. Barney’s
place, or, more formally speaking, the Rain-
bow Palais, is a gaudy, tumultuous dance-
hall. Tumpty music and sounds of revelry
came from the upper windows in waves.
He fancied he heard Duke’s laugh. The
street door was on the latch; he pushed it
gently, and, in almost total darkness, tip-
toed up a narrow stairway. His pulse was
beating fast as he made that ascent.
Hardly had he reached the upper landing
when a door leading from the bright hall
was thrown open, and an arrogant figure
strutted forth, in company with a woman.
It was Duke; the woman was a friend of
the name of Dolly Gray.
The light fell on Tommy; Duke thrust
Dolly back, and slammed the door after her.
“Come for more, you fool?” lie
sneered through the inky darkness. “Well,
take it!”
There was a stabbing flash as his auto-
matic spat. Tommy’s reply shattered the
air a second later. Both missed. A gasp-
ing silence within the hall.
Duke w T as nearest the stair; he bolted
down whilst he had the chance, not knowing
how many of Tommy’s uninformed friends
were about. Tommy half ran, half fell,
after him, and fired again into the shadows;
but the fleeing footsteps did not slacken.
The chase led up one turning, down another,
into a maze of squalid streets and alleyways.
Tommy tripped over a garbage-bin, and fell
full length. When he. recovered the foot-
steps had ceased. The rain murmured.
Duke was a dozen yards ahead, around a
bend of the lane, pressed fiat against a sewer
vent. He fingered his gun, and waited for
Tommy to come nearer. This time, when he
fired, he would not miss. His car was
parked at the end of that lane; he had
been heading for it. It would make his
getaway easy. Duke licked his lips.
Presently he heard Tommy’s wary foot-
steps, and brought his pistol to the ready.
Tommy neared the fatal elbow in the lane;
Duke leaned forward a little, and put a
preliminary pressure on the trigger.
An unseen third party chose that moment
to take a part in the drama—a party who
was seated in Duke’s car. An unseen hand
crept along the instrument board. A slim
finger pressed a switch. A paralysing beam
of light shot from the headlights, picking out
Percival Duke Murray as sharply as though
he stood in the heart of day....
Tommy fired low, and again to make sure.
Duke dropped like a sodden rag, and lay
heavily on the wet pavement.
The woman in the car called hysterically.
“Tommy!” Constable Lewis ran up in time
to catch his wife as she fell through the
door.
By-and-bye he turned Duke over. He was
not killed, but Tommy did not seem to
care. He found his back gate, and took
his wife home—he had been within a stone’s-
throw of it for quite a while, without know-
ing.
When an ambulance had called for Mur-
ray. Lou began to straighten things out.
“I knew Duke was coming for his ear—
Dolly Gray told me, when she put it there,
this afternoon. They were going to Sydney,
she said. I waited in it for over an hour.
Then I heard the shots, and heard him come
running—and you know the rest.”
“Yes, but Lou—you were waiting for a
crook, a murderer?”
“I—l wanted to speak to him again.”
“Tell me, Chicken.”
Lou covered her face with her cupped
hands. “He is my half-brother, Tommy.”
Tommy Lewis opened his arms and en-
folded his wife, as he would a child: she
seemed so little.
Lou clung to his shoulder. “Take me
away from here, Tommy dear,” she wailed.
“Take me away to —to —Dogwood Plains.”
PHILIP ABSON.


.TT" — lev
0
: $9
m
ft
: :
.
A
WESTINGHOUSE
Morse Silent Rocker-Joint
CHAIN DRIVES
Ensure minimum wear —
Maximum life and highest
efficiency.
Chains in stock —wheels manu-
factured to suit requirements.
Write for particulars
and Booklet BM 414.
THE WESTINGHOUSE BRAKE CO.
OF AOSTRALASIA LTD.,
Queensland Agents—HOLMES & CHURCH. Brisbane. MrAnh « * uriiifC
N.Z. Office—93-107 Featherston Street, Wellington. CONCORD WEST, N. O. WALtO,
Victorian Office—99 Queen Street, Melbourne. __ TTn Ad«is»iae SA.
South Australian Agents: Messrs. ELDER, SMITH & CO., LT ~ . ’
NON-PLUS-ULTRA
CORKBOARD
7 for . 77%v ; 7; '
Cold Storage Insulation.
Compressed Cork Sheets, Standard Size 3ft. x Ift.,
in various thicknesses.
Large stocks available for immediate delivery.
J. WILDRIDGE S SINCLAIR, LTD..
97 PITT STREET. SYDNEY,
And at Melbourne, Brisbane, Perth and Auckland (N.Z.).
ri
f
\
\
Neatly brushed
HAIR
adds much to a man’s personal
appearance. Anzora will keep your
hair tidy all day. It is clean, easy
to use and delicately perfumed.
Anzora Cream for greasy scalps,
Anzora Viola for dry scalps.
Sold by chemists, hairdressers,
and stores, or from our agents.
REFUSE ALL SUBSTITUTES
MASTERS THE HAIR
Agents for Australia: LYALL, WILLIS & CO., LTD.
Melbourne. .Baldwin & Slattery Pty., Adelaide Arthur Glover
Ltd. Brisbane... ...... Gregory & Collins.
Sydney Jones & Joseph, Ltd. Perth....... L. M. Cullen ACa
Manufactured by
ANZOR A PERFUMERY CO., LTD. r Willesden\Lane, London, ENGLAND.
e
AUTOLOADING SHOTGUN
Reloads itself as it fires
3 SHOTS without reloading! Each time the
gun is fired, the smooth automatic action
ejects the empty case, feeds a fresh cartridge
into the chamber and cocks the hammer. Can t
be equalled for rapid shooting and hard hitting.
smlt tof last a lifetime.
F 2
Model 11
12 gauge only
Order from
your dealer
REMINGTON * ARMS' COMPANY, he.
D. D. BRYANT,, Representative
G.P.O. Box 686 E Melbourne, Viet.
d
A Pill is the best
form of medicine
Handy to use - easy to take
If taken regularly
The best form of medicine
Provided it’s a good pill
BEECHAM’S PILLS are
The tried and trusted remedy
Of countless thousands
Contain finest ingredients
Requisite for the
Toning and strengthening of
Stomach, liver and bowels
Beecham’s Pills
Remove poisons from system
Prevent biliousness
Indigestion, sick headache
And evils which follow
Constipation.
aPMto
# <a>
the thinf
o*o
*
H
Marine
Engines
For all boats of the medium duty
type, Kermath Marine Engines of 3
to 100 horsepower have proved
themselves best by actual, hard, un-
failing service.
All parts Standard and Interchange-
able. American Bosch Magnetos—
impulse coupling.
3 to 100 H.P.,
1 to 6 cylinders,
4-cycle Engines.
HALL BROS.,
Foot of Willoughby St.,
North Sydney, Australia.
MANUFACTURING CO.
Detroit, Michigan, U. S. A.
Cable Address: KERMATH
Models:
lJf/JfOh.p,, 20/60h.p.,
30/90h.p. and 3-litre.
Fitted with Four-wheel Brakes.
Authorised Dealers:
WILLIAMS BROS., Ltd.,
255-259 Elizabeth Street,
SYDNEY.
British Cars for l
British People ■
The new Sunbeam three-litre sporting
car is the finest ever produced. It
embodies all the experience in engine
design and chassis construction which
has made Sunbeam cars supreme in the
racing world. Its body work is typical
of Sunbeam easy luxury and fine
appearance, and it comes as a worthy
addition to the fine range of touring
models which are already famous for
their inimitable performance and re-
liability.
THE SUPREME
Sunbeam
Further particulars are ' available from
THE SUNBEAM MOTOR CAR CO. LTD.
Export Department, 12 Princes Street,
Hanover Square, London, W.l.
Cable Address,: “Supermoco, London,”
Works, Wolverhampton.
HARBOR TOURIST TRIPS
Weather and other circumstances permitting.
Prom Fort Macquarie at 10.15 a.m. and 2.15 p.m.
EVERY TUESDAY AND EVERY THURSDAY.
Fares: All-day, 2/6: Half-day. .1/6. Children, 1/- and Gd.
Funeheon by reservation at Clifton Gardens Hotel. Afternoon Tea on Board.
SPECIAL TRIP EVERY SUNDAY *> p m..,.™ No. 6 JETTY, CIRCULAR QUAY
Tels.: 86276 (4 line*),
Adults, 1/6. Children, 6d.
Sydney Ferries, Ltd.


Remarkable Features
High-torque engine—giving unusual
power .. . low centre of gravity—new-
type safety chassis . . . speed over 60
miles an hour in comfort . . . greater
economy in operation ... symmetrically
designed modern-type bodies ... more
inside r00m... quick starting ... instant
stopping 4-wheel brakes ... high resale
value —made possible by its modern
engineering.
11
ml
*« « «
No Willys-Knight
engine, so far as
we know, has ever
worn out.
Great Six **
Passenger
Touring
Lasting Beauty—
Unfailing Service
Beautifully designed .. . distinctive in appearance ... luxurious in interior appoint-
ments, the Willys-Knight Six, built by men who make their craft an art, ranks with
the world’s finest motor cars.
Beneath its visual beauty is an engine of enormous power ... of flashing speed .
of whispering quietness. An engine that reduces motor trouble to the vanishing
point. ®
This Knight type of engine used in the Willys-Knight Six, is controlled by patent
rights granted to only a few manufacturers. Engines of other types usually have
valves seated by springs, in the action of which there is a constant clash of metal
against metal. The sleeves of the Knight engine move in a film of oil, quietly—
efficiently. Yet its oil consumption is no higher—usually lower—than in these
other types.
It has no valves to grind . . . no carbon to clean ... Its simpler construction
means fewer parts to get out of repair. The Willys-Knight Six is built to remain
continuously in your service.
Don’t fail to drive this super-powerful, exquisitely beautiful Willys-Knight Six.
Know what modern engineering has to offer,
ďf
d
In two sizes
The “Great Six” (Model “66”) Wheelbase 126*
The “Seventy” (Model “70”) Wheelbase IX3*
Various body styles
Touring, Sedan, Roadster, Coupe, Convertible Coupe
Touring, Sedan, Roadster, Coupe
- ;V , ’S- -j-V.
Overland Sydney, Ltd., 148-150 Castlereagh Street, SYDNEY.
Overland Victoria Pty., Ltd., 117-121 Lonsdale Street, MELBOURNE.
Overland South Australia, Ltd., 236-238 Victoria Square, ADELAIDE.
E. G. Eager & Son, Ltd..' Breakfast Creek Road, Newstead, BRISBANE.
H. C. Heathorn & Co., Ltd., HOBART and LAUNCESTON.
Adams Motors, Ltd., 442-446 Murray Street, PERTH.
SEE YOUR LOCAL DEALER.
N D
. FINE . MOTOR
C A R s_j
