

A
r
t
SAME-DAY
SERVICE
DEVELOPING and PRINTING
for best re suit 5
FROM YOUR
Leave films before 10 a.m.
—prints ready 5 p.m.
GUARANTEED BY OUR NAME,
Behind the bright, clear snapshots—the best from every
film—that we supply stand the vast stores of photo-
graphic knowledge acquired by KODAK S world-
wide resources. This information is possessed by
no other organisation.
QUALITY WORK.
Our Developing and Printing Service is maintained at
a high standard of excellence, the standard that
has always been set for the many other lines we
manufacture. Special features are perfect
technical quality, freedom from fog and
scratches, and a dependable organisation
that speeds every order through in its
turn, and has them one and all
readv on time!
I J
For your protection the words
“Kodak Print” appear on
the back of every snapshot .
fllways look f or them .
KODAK
(Australasia) PTY. LTD.
379 George Street and
108 Market Street, Sydney.
250-52 Queen Street, Brisbane;
and The Valley.
45 Elizabeth Street, Hobart.
Ruthven Street, Toowoomba; Flinders Stree
“The Kodak Corner,” corner Lambton Quaj
“The Block,” 284 Collins Street,
and 161 Swanston Street,
Melbourne.
37 Rundle Street, Adelaide.
672 Hay Street, Perth.
;, Townsville; East Street, Rockhampton;
and Willis Street, Wellington, N.Z.
The Bulletin
Vol. 48.—N0. 2461.
See page 36.
Thursday, April 14, 1927.
Price 6d.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.


WITHIN the shadow,
By MAURICE C. GROOM. :
A book devoted to Australia’s problems.
6/- (Postage 3d.), ALL BOOKSELLERS.
THE New Library Catalogue is now
ready and will be forwarded post free, with full
particulars, on application to
DYMOCK’S ROOK ARCADE, LTD.,
428 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
LYSAGHT7
O
0
R
AUSTRALIA
Support Australian Industries.
All users of Galvanized Iron should specify
Lysaght’s Australian-made
Galvanized Corrugated Iron.
Manufactured wholly from Australian Raw
Materials, and equal to the best imported.
/ +M
s.n.
//
V
/
jgs
IJ
, „
A Pleasant Story
“Why are they called ‘De Reszke*
cigarettes ? ”
“ That, my child, is a very pleasant little
story. Years ago, before your first baby
smile lit up the world, the great operatic
tenor, Jean de Reszke, found that he would
have to give up smoking unless he could
find a cigarette that would not affect his
voice. When he was in London he put this
to Millhoff, the famous cigarette maker,
who succeeded, in producing a cigarette
which de Reszke found he could smoke all
day with impunity. So grateful was the
singer that he allowed Millhoff to call the
cigarette by his name. And that is the origin
of De Reszke Cigarettes, which can’t affect
jour pretty voice either 1
DE RESZKE
ias
TEN FOR NINEPENCE
f-Atso m 20’s, 5Q } s and 100’s
J. MILLHOFF 1 & CO., LTD., 86 PICCADILLY, LONDON, W.l,
Agents for -N.S.W.: DALGETY & COMPANY, LTD., Sydney.
'"De 7(eszks—of course '*
Ivory Tipped
or Plain
R
KILL THAT FLY.
"MUSTDIE
IS NOT A GERMAN
POWDER.
sold Everywhere.
PRICE I/-
HOUSE FLIES
ARE POTENT
(CARRIERS OH
DISEASE AND
FILTH.
The Red Page
The Emergence of Russia
In August of last year two Canadians,
husband and wife, interested in political
and economic movements, seized the oppor-
tunity to cross into Russia. It was repre-
sented to them that they would be risking
not only health, but possibly life. In the
result, they found risk to neither; Russia
is in transition. The days of the terror
and the abominations of the Cheka have
become a memory, vivid, perhaps, but still
a memory, not a present fact. That, at all
events, was their experience. Into a book
of comparatively few pages, Russia in 1926,
by R. F. and M. S. McWilliams (Dent),
they have packed the net results of their
adventure. They visited Leningrad, Mos-
cow and Kiev, the capital cities which
marked the three historical periods of
Russian development. From start to finish
of a journey of 1500 miles the travellers
had good accommodation at reasonable
prices and received courteous treatment
everywhere.
The Russian communism of 1926 is of a
different type from that of the blood-stained
days of the Red and W T hite Guards. It is
modified and tempered, broken into two
distinct schools, one the ab*>lute commu-
nism of the early revolutionary days and
the other Lenin’s compromise of 1921.
There are true red communists and whole-
souled Leninists, and the fight in the Bol-
shevik executive is between these two.
“Leninism,” explained a young Russian
student, “is the new edition of Marxism.”
The Lenin propaganda penetrates every-
where, and what the ikon used to be in the
Greek Church the pictures of the Bolshevik
leader are now to the materialists of the
new society. In the Ukraine, for example,
Leninism seems to typify the revolution,
but communism they will not acknowledge.
The adoration of Lenin as the pivotal in-
fluence upon which the new Russia rests is
well illustrated by the description of a
visit to his .-mausoleum in the Red Square
of Moscow. Every evening between eight
and nine o’clock the doors leading into his
final resting-place are thrown open to the
public;—
Taking our place at the end of the line,
it was something like 20 minutes before we
stood before the doors. By that time the
line lengthened .out far behind us, men,
women and children coming on steadily
abreast .. .. Twenty steps down, and one is
in the funeral chamber. In the centre of
a smallish, square room, with a slightly-
raised platform around it, along which one
may gq in single file, is the coffin. The
base is that of a large sarcophagus in black
oak. From sides and ends rise triangular
sheets of plate-glass meeting in a single
line on the top. There on the base, in full
view under brilliant concealed lights, lies
the body of Lenin. The head rests on a
bright-red cushion. The body is covered with
what seems to be a worn red flag. The arms
and hands lie outside the covering, the right
one clenched, the left lying easily. The
expression of the face is calm as in sleep.
Religion is no longer the subject of direct
persecution, but its influence is being subtly
undermined. The complex and widely-
spread system of education which is a
feature of government is passively, if not
actively, against, religion. In the cathedral
of St. Bas’d, which is a curious and inter-
esting example of Byzantine architecture,
there are two storeys. The shrine in the
lower is left to worshippers and the space
above devoted to a national museum.
“There seems to me no doubt,” says the
writer, “that Leninism is being carefully
built up into a cult in opposition to Christi-
anity. The minds behind the revolution
have seen that the people of Russia must
have a religion, and so have set themselves
to put something into the place of the only
religion they know—that of the Greek
Orthodox Churoh.”
The lady collaborator deals with the posi-
tion of woman' in modern Russia. In dis-
cussing tLe question of divorce, a woman
communist put the matter thus: “The chief
difference between your country and mine
is that you are hypocrites and we are not.
It ou knew very well that in bourgeois coun-
tries if a man tires of his wife he, in effect,
gets new one, but he says nothing about
it, We simply make it possible for him to
be honest in the matter.” All that is neces-
sary to secure di'vorce is that either party
to a marriage shall go before an official and
express the wish. The sole condition is
that one of the parents must agree to take
the children. This is usually the mother,
and in such caae the father must pay for
their maintenance until they reach the age
of 18 years. The divorced man has thus a
serious charge made on his income. Divorce
under these ’circumstances is much more
popular with the women than the men.
“Nobody rjould be ten days in Russia, if
he were real’fy listening, and not sense how
keen the Russians are for education.” It
is everywhere. Apart from the comprehen-
sive systems/ of the Government, which train
the children practically from the cradle to
manhood, the numerous clubs associated
with the "trades unions and other bodies
have each and all an educational section.
Ana t-hror/ghout tfcoe whole network of in-
tellectual and vocational training runs the
thin red thread of revolutionary doctrines.
A foundation is being laid stone by stone
that will make an impregnable fortress for
Leninism.. “Do you teach communism in
the school?” the lady asked. “We do not
teach coir animism,” was the reply. “Nor is
the child who wishes to be religious taught
that he must be irreligious. But it is true
that the background of everything taught
is communistic. All our teaching is also
materialistic.”
But Russia has yet to face the results of
her untested economic system, modified
though it has been. Soviet industries are
passing through a rapid process of develop-
ment, and are sloughing off the encum-
brance of the communistic garment. “In
respect of wages it is abundantly clear that
the communist principle has been com-
pletely abandoned. Sixty per cent, of the
workers in factories are paid by piece-
work.” Wide differences in pay do away
with the idea of payment “according to
need.”' Already in Moscow lines of demar-
cation in social rank are beginning to define
themselves and “comrade” has ceased to
have any real significance. So the ideal
communism of 1917 has been abandoned,
and little by little the balance that remains
is being eaten into.
T.B.C.
This Literary Mine
A critic, bewailing the rarity of the Aus-
tralian novel, declares that vivid topics are
hard to find—that the scarcity of local
material for the Australian novel amounts
almost to a famine. One wonders exactly
how far that critic had looked into matters
before he began to wail.
No vivid topics! And the great Empty
North, clamoring for recognition, still
awaits her noet, her writer, to unveil the
glories of her land, the epics of her people.
No vivid'topics! Can no one tell of the
early settlers at Fort Dundas and at Escape
Cliffs? What of the voyage that some of
her early explorers made in a boat built of
horse-hides and wattle? A boat so frail
that it fell to pieces when the adventurous
voyagers had reached to safety, as a boat
of paper might have done!
What of the earliest travellers to the
lonely North? Those sturdy sailors who
carried away specimens of silver ore of
almost fabulous richness, and who named
the sea on whose shores they found the
specimen's the Arafura? Still the Silver
Sea washes the shores of that dazzling
coast, as lonelv almost - to-day as it was all
those 300 years ago; and still that wonder-
ful reef from which the samples were taken
remains unfound.
What of the explorations of John Mae-
douall Stuart, and of Leichhardt? What of
Larry Wells, Giles and John Forrest, who
did their share, just lifting the curtain from
the wonders of this unknown land?.
What of our blacks, with their sagas still
unwritten, their history unknown? What
of their corroborees, whose weird cries and
dances still hold echoes of a vanished race?
And our rivers, the Roper, the Victoria,
the Adelaide and the Alligator? We have
falls 600 feet in height, and we may
find more when our land has its explorers.
There are dragons in Burmah, says
Cobham. What lies hidden in the Terri-
tory jungle? The niggers still talk of
“monkeys” that live in the trees.
Within 50 miles of where I write in
Darwin lies a billabong that, so men
say, has not been bottomed at 300
feet. Even the driest season has no effect
in lessening its store of water; yet there are
few men, even in the Territory, who know
where to look for it. This land still awaits
its Homer, her Shakspeare, our Pliny, to
link up the broken rings of the chain. But
he will not come the sooner for our tears.
Even we, minor poets, feeble writers, may
help in gathering up the spoils of our his-
tory aglow with color-gathering them up,
so that., when our historian arrives, he will
not be handicapped for want of material.
That we lack an appreciative audience is
true. But weeping over that melancholy
fact will not improve matters. True, alas,
is it that if we wail aloud that Australia is
a place of no interest, with a scarcity of
local material, little inspiration and no vivid
topics, people will agree with us; and those
whose interests it is to further the schemes
of money-grabbing American photoplav
plutocrats and publishers will proclaim from
the housetops: “There is nothing good in
Australia! The land is worthless, the people
are shiftless, and there is no good thing in
the place, save the money we cheat them
out of in selling them the rubbish that our
own people discard!”
The fascination of the Unknown! That
is what the Great Empty North offers to-
day; and if any disgruntled critic wants
to find vivid topics and local color, let him
come here, and he will find them, even in
the rolls of old, dusty reports, pigeon-holed
in the Government departments. For inspi-
ration he will have to look within him; if
he have not that, all the vivid topics anil
color of Territory life and history will
appeal to him in vain.
But let him come quickly. The North,
lonely, undeveloped, despised, will some day
awaken the wonder of the world. God send
that in that day it be still Australian, and
not in the power of an alien race!
J. S. LITCHFIELD.
(Continued on page 5.)


Cafyoat/Hocdecas'Jtye
Colder Weather Calls for Warmer Apparel
Anthony Horderns’
SATISFY THE
NEED AT
Men’s Pull-overs.
We have a choice assortment of Nciv Seasons Pull-overs from
which to make your choice. They are invitingly cosy and veiy
smart and dressy.
Men’s All-Wool Pull-overs, well finished; in broken-stripe
designs in various contrast colors on Fawn, Putty, Grey
grounds. Made with V-shape necks. Sizes: 34 to
42 inches chest. Price, each ‘
35/-
Also in above colorings, made with roll-back Sports Collar,
which also buttons close up to the neck.
Price, each
39/6
Others of better quality, with V-neck, in
choice jacquard effects. Price, each ....
45/-, 57|6
Men’s Coat Sweaters.
For the man who prefers this style sweater that buttons down the
front we have a varied assortment for him to choose from.
Men’s All-Wool Coat Sweaters. An extra heavy warm knit
V-neck, in shades of Navy, Heather, Grey, Sand, Mole and
Sizes .. . 34in. 36in. 38in. 40in. 42in. 44in.
Prices .... 36/6 39/- 41/6 44/- 47/- 50/-
Men’s Sleeping Attire.
A law V-ices at which they are marked « the
minimum in cost.
Men’s Dressing Gowns.
These Dressing Gowns are excel-
lently tailored by English experts,
and correctly finished; with girdle
to match.
Men’s Dressing Gowns. The
new season’s goods in Winter-
weight. In Blanket Tweed, in
mottled effect of Fawn or Grey.
32/6 and 35/-
Prices
Men’s Dressing Gowns of Melton
Tweed, in Flam Brown or Grey
shades.
Price, each
396
As above, with contrast checkered
collar and cuffs.
Price, each ..
37/6
Men’s Tweed Dressing Gowns.
Smart check and stripe effects on
Grey and Fawn grounds. A wide
assortment to choose from.
Prices,
each .. •
45/-, 50/-, 52/6
Men’s Cameline Dressing
Gowns. Soft, warm and superior
wear. In choice designs on Fawn,
Maroon or Grey grounds.
Prices, . __
65/-, 70/-, 75/-, 92/6
Men’s Camel-hair Dressing
Gowns. Medium weight with cosy,
soft finish.
In Fawn only.
Price, each
85/-
Men’s Pyjama Suits.
Cosy and warm, of durable fabrics
and correct in cut and construction,
these Suits will appeal to every
man who considers price-economy
as well as comfort.
Men’s Pyjamas. Made in our own
workrooms from reliable wearing
materials.
In Striped Flannelette —
Prices
Ceylon-
9/9,
12/6
22/6
Price
Crimean —
Prices
21/-, 25/-
All-wool “Doctor” —
Price
39/6
Wintry weather demands snug, cosy
apparel that possesses an inviting
warmth such as these garments ,
which are well made from reliable
quality materials and offer excel-
lent value at the House of Economy,
Men’s “Kookaburra” Underwear, Australian made, soft, cosy, and so
invitingly warm. Well made and snugly cut, in Natural Wool and Cotton
Mixture of a comfortable winter weight. The ideal underwear that men
will appreciate.
Undershirts, Half Sleeves —
Sizes 34in. 36in. 38in. 40in. 42in. 44in. 48in.
Prices. . 8/- 8/3 8/9 9/3 9/9 10/3 12/-
With long sleeves, in all sizes, 1/- extra.
Underpants, Ankle Length— _ .
Prices 9/- 9/3 9/9 10/3 10/9 11/3 13/-
Underpants, Knee Length—
Prices 8/6 8/9 9/3 9/9 10/3 10/9
Combinations, Half Sleeves, Ankle Length Leg—
Prices 16/- 17/- 18/- 19/3 20/9 22/6
Men’s Golden Fleece Underwear, Natural All-Wool, soft and warm, a
superior winter garment. Guaranteed unshrinkable in medium winter weight.
Undershirts, Half Sleeves —
Sizes 34in. 36in. 38in. 40in. 42in. 44in. 48in.
Prices 11/6 11/9 12/3 12/9 13/9 14/9 17/-
Long sleeves as above in all sizes, l/- extra.
Underpants, Ankle Length—
Prices 12/9 13/- 13/6 14/- 15/- 16/- 18
/3
Underpants, Knee Length—
Prices 12/3 12/6 13/- 13/6 14/6 15/6
Combinations, Half Sleeves, Ankle Length Leg—
Prices 21/- 22/- 23/- 24/- 25/- 26/-
With long sleeves, in all sizes, 1/- extra.
Men’s Golden Fleece Underwear, in heavy winter weight.
Undershirts, Half Sleeves—
Sizes 34in. 36in. 38in. 40in. 42in. 44in. 48in.
Prices 14/- 14/6 15/- 16/- 17/- 18/- 20/6
With long sleeves, in all sizes, 1/- extra.
Underpants, Ankle Length—
Prices 15/6 16/- 16/6 17/6 18/6 19/6 22/-
We Pay Postage on Men’s
Apparel in N.S.W., and to the
nearest Interstate Port.
*
awgwwgg
mmm
5W
ANTHONY HORDERN & Sons Limited
Postal Address:
Box 2712 C G.P.O.
BRICKFIELD HILL, SYDNEY.
Telephone: City 9440


PACKARD
Big Price
Reduction
WE have pleasure in announcing substantial reduc-
tions in the prices of Packard Single-Six five-
passenger Sedans, five-passenger Touring Cars and four
passenger Roadsters. These new prices make it possible
to own a car that ranks amongst the world’s finest
motor productions at an outlay which is just a little
more than so-called "cheap” cars.
Appreciation of the quality of the Packard—its superior-
ity in every point of comparison—can come only with
actual experience, and we invite you to ride in and
drive a Packard Six whether you intend to buy a new
car or not.
PACKARD SINGLE-SIX
5-PASSENGER SEDAN
(Old price was £925)
PACKARD SINGLE-SIX
5-PASSENGER PHAETON
(Old price was £875)
PACKARD SINGLE-SIX
4-PASSENGER ROADSTER
(Old price was £900)
<£Bso
<£795
£795
Call at our showrooms while in town this week
and inspect the special display of these fine cars.
IRA L. & A. C. BERK (Packard) Ltd.
HDistributors : BERK HOUSE, 72-76, WILLIAM STREET, SYDNEY
Ring 8W1517 for demonstration. Write or call for illustrated literature.
Kellou), Falfyiner Pty. Ltd.
206 Russell St., Melbourne.
The Universal Motors Ltd.,
Stanley St., Brisbane
S. A. Motors (Packard) Ltd.,
141 Flinders St., Adelaide.
H. C. Heathorn & Co. Ltd.,
Hobart, Tasmania,
Denny Bros. Ltd.,
439-447 Murray St., Perth ,


Travel in Luxury by
ORIENT LIN
The three new 20,000-ton Liners and the
fourth now building are fitted with more single-
besjth cabins than any other vessels afloat.
Their vast decks for recreation and exercise,
their palatial public rooms and their excellent
cabin accommodation, ensure a very comfort-
able and enjoyable voyage.
Write for Illustrated Literature,
2, k, 6 SPRING STREET, SYDNEY.'
Branches and Agencies throughout Australia and New Zealand.
The Quick and the Dead
The art of fiction, like all the other arts,
is necessarily always in a state of flux; one
generation, or even one decade, would, I
imagine, find it hard to prove that it had
witnessed the reaching of any real stopping-
point. Thirty years ago the plot was the
thing, almost the only thing; the roughest
characterisation, washiest dialogue and
sketchiest suggestion of setting and atmo-
sphere were good enough accessories for
the serious novelist so long as their engine
was a shapely plot. Writers who took their
job perhaps a little solemnly got fed up
with these ideas, and said that the thing was
to be “convincing,” that unless characters,
dialogue and atmosphere were true to life
you couldn’t hope to get anywhere. And the
plots of life being notoriously unshapely,
the less melodramatic balance of plot-
structure you had the better. Some sort of
a yarn, of course, if possible, but quite sub-
ordinately to your convincingness. During
the 30 years this has been further trimmed;
it has been decided that no sort of a yam is
really the best manner; thus your convinc-
ingness can have absolutely free play un-
hampered by any story at all.
Manhattan Transfer (Constable, Dymock’s)
is a good example of this last decision. Mr.
John Dos Passos stands on Manhattan (I
suppose “Junction” would be a fair trans-
lation of “Transfer”; in U.S. you receive
“transfer-tickets” from one line of trams to
another, and the junction-stop of the lines
is known as the “transfer”), and observes life
passing him. He scorns plot; even the mer-
est trickle of event-sequence is beneath him.
He is here to write down what he sees. He
does it splendidly, and with an inspired sur-
gical exactitude beyond praise. His truth
to life is appalling in its detailed faithful-
ness. The drunk, the sexual pervert, the
“justifiable” murderer, the suicide, the
nymphomaniac, the shoddy self-protectionist,
the poet deliberately drinking himself to
death, the wise man who walks away from
the transfer’s din with three cents in his
pocket to become a tramp—these are all
here in the immense crowd of other pas-
sengers. They are so true to life and so
vivid in their tragic truth that there
remains nothing more to be said of such
perfectly-drawn characters. We know' their
hopeless ultimate; for the rest, they can be
thrown away, like a catalogue out' of date
at the turning of its last page. The chaos
of T ork crashes before one’s eyes and
in one’s ears throughout the book, making
the setting nearly visible and audible; the
dialogue is speech transcribed and edited
down to the fiery point of thought-actuality;
and of the characterisation I have said
enough above. In all those important acces-
sories the thing is perfect. One is reminded
irresistibly of the German 40 years’ prepara-
tion for the Great War, of' the vast all-
embracing determination in which no small-
est point was omitted or ignored; and of
the small mysterious thing, built up of
childishnesses like the angels of Mons,
which blew the 40 years’ determination into
nothing.
In Moonraker (Heinemann, Dymock’s)
Miss F. Tennyson Jesse goes back to 30
years ago, to the days of plots; and she
seems to make no attempt to convince us.
Furthermore, her setting is grotesque in its
fatuousness—a pirate ship with the, Jolly
Roger at the masthead, no less, and alter-
natively the island of San Domingo, with
Toussaint l’Ouverture and the negroes’ fight
for freedom! Blood and heroism and the
fear of God, martyrdom on hopeless altars,
a strutting nigger, an unshakable belief in
life, virtuous maidens—all the threadbare
properties are here in their stark rigidity.
The thing is patently ridiculous!
et—how swiftly v 7 e pad after young
Jaeky Jacka running away to sea, and with
something of his young lilt in our hearts!
How closely we follow his thoughts as the
tale is unfolded from his seeing! His ship
is captured and sunk by the Moonraker, tin's
fool of a pirate, and he becomes cabin-boy
under the Jolly Roger. In long-winded,
ambling sentences, not at all vivid, the tale
goes on, ignoring all technique and skill.
Dawn comes up on the waters, and a ship
is sighted. We heave to, and let her have
it. Presently the grappling-irons are out;
our heart contracts as we hunch a little
closer over the book.
San Domingo, purple and gold and green,
receives us, and this nigger, this Toussaint
I’Ouverture, struts like a mountebank be-
fore us, sawmg the air and making speeches.
I\ e become part of the struggle for black
freedom in that island, to the witnessing of
a voodoo ceremonial and the mingling of
our tears with the negroes. The plot knits
more closely, deepening to its climax; sud-
denly it opens wide, and we are on the very
mountain-top of heroic drama, trafficking
like a group of actors in life and death, our
heaits afire with dreams. A small chapter
sighs gently through the coda, and the yarn
has gone, leaving its endless echoes ‘ and
memories.
So, as heretofore and always, we are in
our state of flux. Miss Jesse takes all the
Jong-discarded stage properties, all the
corpses out of the morgue, the very Dead-
wood-Dick structure itself; and the book
IS ahve, quick with the true radiance of life.
Mr. Dos Passos lavishes a magic skill and
sensitiveness of observation on a marvellous
picture of life as we know it, life passing
every day m the street; and the miraculous
work of art dies of its own perfection The
spirit, the angels of Mons, that small un-
observable mysterious thing which has no
place m the most skilled and finished cal-
culations. is absent. The true-to-life game
so far as one’s finite eyes may see it, seems
to demand the maximum of technique and
observation only up to a point, a point
short of the spot of infinite fire which is life.
HILARY LOFTING.
The Impertinence of Centenaries
Although Beethoven’s music has always
been (and doubtless will be) a conspicuous
absentee from concert programmes, a thou-
sand scribes have shamelessly rushed into
print to honor their alleged idol with the
lard of their appreciation, never forgetting
to throw in the usual apology for his com-
pany manners and the sad robustness of his
way with women.
A lot of this centenary excitement is really
based on the pooular delusion that great
musicians (as well as all other sorts of
artists) are never recognised by their con-
temporaries, but have to depend for fame on
the perspicacity oi succeeding generations.
History presents few texts for such a finding.
Beethoven never had occasion to complain
of lack of interest on the part of the musi-
cally discerning public. The presentation
of a new Wagner opera gave the Berlin
traffic cops a busy evening. The critics
argued about the comparative merits of
Mozart’s works, but none but a few pedants
seriously doubted the greatness of his
genius. In every epoch there have been
scores of revolutionary artists, and thousands
of their operas, symphonies, cantatas, statues
and pictures were lauded by the schools;
but the operas, statues and pictures that
survive to-day are precisely those whose
worth was recognised at the time they were
produced by the bulk of educated opinion.
It is contemporary opinion, as a fact, that is
inclined to accept the older classic uncriti-
cally, and neglect it.
So if the Australian musical multitude
failed to discover any great composer in its
midst, it is probably because no great com-
poser existed, or, if he did exist, he escaped
to foreign parts because there the monetary
returns are inevitably larger. An artist who
works in the medium selected by Norman
Lindsay is different. The produce of his
mind can be mailed to any destination. Con-
sequently he stays in Australia, but he has
not been heard reviling the public for not
recognising his genius. He is about to issue
a book of his etchings at 30 guineas the
book.
Centenary celebrations are to much too
great an extent impertinent assertions of the
superiority of our judgment over that of our
great-grandfathers.
M.G.S.
The Carillon
The controversy concerning the housing
of the Sydney University carillon still con-
tinues, but gratitude that Australia is to
have one to house is the uppermost thought.
This ancient and inspiring instrument
of music, while well known bn the Conti-
nent, is not at all familiar to British ears.
Belgium is especially fortunate: the caril-
lons c>f Bruges and Malines are the finest
in Europe. Between the Brugeois and
Malinois a small jealousy exists on the sub-
ject. In Malmes the bells are housed in
the Cathedral of St. Rombold, whose huge
but unfinished tower, 318 ft. in height, was
begun in 1452, and was intended to be tlr'
highest in Christendom, and to reach 500 ft.
But the Bruges carillon, immortalised by
Longfellow, is- by far the best known:—
Changing like a poet’s rhymes,
Rang the beautiful wild chimes,
From the Belfry in the Market
Of the ancient town of Bruges.
Housed in the ancient Belfry of Bruges,
an octagonal-topped tower, 353 ft. in height
—a tower which, by the way, has a distinct
lean—its bells have been added to and re-
stored from the thirteenth century onwards,
and to-day Carilloneur Nawaulaerts gives
recitals twice weekly on a set of chimes
among the largest in Belgium.
An ever-abiding memory will I have of
weeks spent in Bruges at a small hotel in
the shadow of the great belfry. A mechani-
cal arrangement played a tune on the bells
at every quarter of the hour. Sleep the
first few nights was impossible. After clam-
bering up the 402 steep, worn stairs of the
belfry, I inspected the giant roller which,
on the music-box principle, bears the notes
of the melody. Very many of its “teeth’'
were gone, so it was small wonder that such
a discordant medley of sound resulted at
each striking of the clock. Nobody seemed
in the least concerned about the din, nor
in the matter of setting the contrivance
in repair.
M. Nawaulaerts, playing at a keyboard
like that of an ordinary piano, besides giv-
ing concerts for the chimes alone, also
arranges for choirs and soloists to sing from
the gallery below the octagonal top of the
tower, to the accompaniment of the caril-
lon. The bells, being cast over a period of
centuries, are of differing timbre, so that
M. Nawaulaerts has to re-arrange accom-
paniments to suit them. However, by a
crowded market-place and an everywhere-
listening Bruges, these concerts are events
deeply appreciated. Most vividly I remem-
ber a soprano voice soaring in Gounod’s
“Ave Maria” over the hushed city to a
softly-played background of bells. To me
later said a little nun, a member of a
rigidly-enclosed order of Belgian sisters, “It
was so beautiful I leaned my head out of
the window to hear more clearly. Do
you think I am very wicked?”
Carilloneur Nawaulaerts is something of
a hero in Bruges. On one black day in
1914, when the entire city was crushed
with despair and sick with sorrow, when
all the men of Bruges were called to arms,
and the wives and mothers were numb with
grief, he played his carillon continu-
ously during eight hours, cheering the men
on their way to the trenches and main-
taining the moral of a people to whom
everything seemed so hope i ess.
JULIA B. PHILIP.
A Satchel of Books
The Wolf of Ghampelour, by Leslie Clunes
(Hurst and Blackett). Concerning the adven-
tures of Lord Wolf, a fierce, bad man, and
Frances Pensgrove, and setting out the
reams they talked and how in the end the
beautiful Frances became the happy mother
of Champelour. It takes 58 chapters to
relate what a mere commoner would have
said in three.
Mortal Image, by Elinor Wylie (Heine-
mann). Little here to suggest that the
author was the creator of the delicately con-
ceived and charmingly written “Venetian Glass
Nephew.” The adventures of David Butter-
nut, a stripling from the coasts of Maine, in
the early part of last century, and the pic-
ture of the American homelife of those days,
make lip the material-in-chief of the book,
which, at any rate, is written with sympathy.
Advertisement Writing\ by Gilbert Rus-
sell (Bonn). Modern advertising does not
go much further back than 30 years. To-
day it is recognised universally as an essen-
tial branch of commercial marketing. The
writer sets out the principles of a good
advertisement. “You cannot use the same
kind of words or the same kind of construc-
tions to sell lorry tyres to technical users
as you employ to sell face-powder to women.”
Useful.
The Veil of Glamour, by Clive Arden (Par-
sons; Robertson and Mullens). The central
figures in this up-to-date novel determine to
minimise the risks of married unhappiness
by having a period of probation prior to
the settlement of their union. They take
a cottage and live together as man and
wife in all respects except one. The author-
ess describes the conflicts of will and temper,
the difficulties of adjustment of varying tem-
peraments and so on; but it all ends in
the ring. Pleasant enough reading.
The Overbury Mystery, by Judge Parry
(Fisher Unwin). Though cast in the form
of an historical novel, the book is, in fact,
a presentation of life at the Court of the
first James in a picturesque setting, and in-
troducing many outstanding figures. It is
when he leaves the romantic atmosphere of
the Courts of Princes for the prosaic sur-
roundings of the Courts of Law that his
Honor is most thoroughly at home, and the
historical Overbury murder-case supplies the
foundation on which he builds a very clever
story.
The Ladies, by E. Barrington (Ernest
Benn). Mrs. Barrington has a literary
recipe which she follows invariably; all her
prepared sweets have similar ingredients.
Over the bare bones of a dead personality
she flings the colored robe of romance —and
you have a “Glorious Apollo.” The ladies
presented in the volume under notice include
the -wife of Samuel Pepys, of whom the
diarist makes frequent mention, not always
in the terms of an enraptured lover; Esther
Johnson, the charming “Stella” of Swift’s
not too enviable attentions; and Fanny
Burney, whose “Evelina” still finds a reader
here and there. The author kindly mentions
that she is no stickler for historical exacti-
tude.
Everyman's Library (Dent). To this
popular issue of classics in history, philo-
sophy, belles-lettres and literature at large
have been added Vasari’s “Lives of the
Painters,” Foster’s “Life of Dickens,” H. B.
Binns’s “Life of Abraham Lincoln,” Max
Plowman’s “Poems and Prophecies of Wil-
liam Blake,” Milton’s “Areopagitica,” the
"Poems of Charles Kingsley,” Sterne’s “Sen-
timental Journey,” the “Poems and Essays
of Edgar Allan Poe” and other standard
works worthy of a place on the reader’s
bookshelves.
The Culture of the Abdomen, by F. A.
Hornibrook (Angus and Robertson). A very
serious dissertation on “the cure of obesity
and constipation.” Tire author (best known
to Australians and Maorilanders as the hus-
band and helper of Ettie Rout) has spent
practically his life in the study of physical
education and has designed a method where
by it is possible “to localise effort to the
abdominal region, to promote more abdominal
activity and to concentrate on correct
posture.” The book is amply illustrated for
the guidance of the student.
Saul's Daughter, by Mary Gaunt (Fisher
Unwin). A story of love, Africa and lions,
by one of the most industrious of Australian
novelists, for some years resident in foreign
parts. The plot is of the simplest; Bridget,
the daughter of the Resident at Aden, has
two suitors, and chooses the feckless one
of the twain —a coward, and no match for
a lion. He deserts her, flees to the tents of
the Arabs, and meets his death. Then she
marries the faithful Adrian Rand; all is
well, and there are no more lions. The
author makes generous acknowledgment to
Colonel Swayne for supplying local color for
a story which is picturesque, well modelled
and packed with incident.
The Empire's Junior Partner, by C. A.
Wilson (AVilliams and Norgate). A book
about Maoriland. The facts are all right,
save when the author expatiates on the beau-
ties of the climate, and says that snowfalls
are limited to the extreme south and skat-
ing is “an unknown pastime.” Also, when he
says that there are “millions of acres in
scrub, fern, pumice and swamp that only
require intelligent handling. In this develop-
ment the immigrant can take part.” He begs
a lot of questions, and runs counter to the
oft-expressed opinion of the present Minister
of Lands, to mention one of many authori-
ties. There is not a word about manufac-
tures ; hydro-electric power, which has given
secondary industries a tremendous impetus,
is mentioned only as a convenience to the
Dominion’s farmers. The whole of the middle
part of the book is devoted to remarks about
the Maoris, who simply do not matter. The
general effect on the mind of the “migrant”
will be to lead him to expect a welcome
on the wharf from brown gentlemen brand-
ishing greenstone clubs and flourishing in
the other hand the title-deeds to thousands
of acres of land that will grow 40 bushels
of wheat to the acre. And that is not a
good effect.


MICK SIMMONS
Distributors of
<MA GNA VOX—One
T)ial-%ADIO.’ y
If you do not possess
one of the wonderful
JfIAGNAVOX
Receivers—get the
utmost results out of
your set by using the
(Wonderful
JTAGNAVOX
Jlccessories.
The
MAGNAVOX Valve
AfAGNAYOX
201-Type
Valve,
10/6
171-Type
Power
Valve,
25/-
A VALVE that will not only give
more power to your Set, but permits
the greater volume without distortion.
That means you also reach more sta-
tions. At all times it makes reception
sharp-cut, clear, distinct. In long life,
in quality of performance and manu-
facture, MAGNAVOX VALVES give
you full satisfaction.
The New
MAGNAVOX
Cone Speakers
Made under exclusive Magnavox
patents, the new Magnavox Cone
Speaker is a history-making achieve-
ment quite as marvellous as the origi-
nal radio loud-speaker, which was also
a MAGNAVOX.
The New Cone reproduces the entire
tonal scale- —and does it with realistic
fidelity. It reproduces every instru-
ment, every note, every intonation with
magical realism.
The “Cornel” Model, £3/15/-
(As illustrated.)
The “Cornell'’ stands pre-eminent as
the highest-grade yet the most-reason-
ably priced Loud Speaker on the mar-
ket to-day.
Artistic non-resonant "metal finish,
llin. high, 9|in. wide and 4-Jin. deep.
The Superlative MAGNAVOX
Sets, Loud Speakers and Acces-
sories, represent the “ne plus
ultra” in Radio.
See and hear them demonstrated in
our Special Audition Rooms.
Profusely illustrated Booklets free
on request .
Mick Simmons, Ltd.
“The World’s Greatest Sports
Stnrf» ”
Headquarters: 720 HAYMARKET,
SYDNEY.
Branches:
City, Suburbs, Newcastle, Brisbane.
is
iU
■ **&
0
m
m
H
■
Supple
Riding Boots
Close-fitting, without any
tightness, Abbey Riding Boots
are comfortably flexible. They
are light in weight, but remark-
ably durable. And, even when
new, they fit easily.
The soles are welted, the
uppers of double thickness, with
strongly reinforced toes. The
soft leather, inner lining has no
seams that drag when pulling
on. It is smooth and cannot
chafe the foot anywhere. Stout
elastic insets at the sides keep
the boots to the shape of the
foot.
Order by Post
Comfort is assured —Abbey
Riding Boots are made in
three fittings—narrow, medium
and wide, for each size. Specify
width when ordering.
Prices: Tan Willow, 42/- per
pair. Black, 37/6.
ABBEY
Established over 80 years,-
313 George Street, and
224 Pitt Street, Sydney.
Ll 6.
JOHNSTONS
TUTOR
EASIEST AND BEST.
Price 3/-; posted 3/3.
All Music Sellers, or
MELBOURNE
SYDNEY
ADELAIDE.
Cuticura
Heals Irritating Rashes
Don’t suffer with itching, burning
rashes, eczemas or irritations when
Cuticura Soap and Ointment will
quickly relieve and heal. Bathe with
Cuticura Soap and hot water, dry
and anoint with Cuticura Ointment.
Nothing quicker or safer than Cuti-
cura Soap and Ointment for all
skin troubles.
Soap ls.,Talcum 15.3 d., Ointment Is. and
2s. For sample Soap and Ointment ad-
dress: '“R.Towns & Co., Sydney, N.S. W.*'
Cuticura Shaving Stick Is. 6d.
VARIOUS VERSE
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The Rond Untrod.
There’s a road leads past my window,
Leading down to sea and sky.
There’s a nodding, blossom’d cherry-tree
That whites the passers-by.
There’s an old inn’s weather’d signboard
Keeps a-creaking ’cross the way,
Where they hanged a one-eyed pirate
When the hedge was at the May.
There’s a lad swings down the roadway,
Swinging down to sea and sky.
There’s a rotten, blacken’d gunny-sack
That rubs his swinging thigh.
There’s a wealth of faery sea-tales
That his smiling lips betray;
And he knows they hanged a pirate
When the hedge was at the May.
But he doesn’t pass my window,
Doesn’t reach the sea and sky;
And the nodding, blossom’d cherry-tree
Can’t white him, passing by.
He’s an old man’s foolish fancy—
Youth-like dreams that go astray
At the thought of pirates hanging
When the hedge was at the May.
victoria.
McCOWAN RUSSELL.
Wings.
What is the cost of wings? Icarus knew,
Falling from heights too near the jealous
sun
To a sea-death, awakened and undone.
Now a bold venture in the boundless blue
Is custom of the age, a journeying
Swift through the abode of lightning and of
storm
Safe as on trodden roads of earth. The form
Of the fall changes, and the wakening.
What is the cost of wings? In upper air,
Drunken with too much distance, faints
the soul,
Though touched with height of vision making
fair—
So fair, the unattainable far goal.
How dearly do we buy the wings we wear,
Who dare not trust them our full weight to
bear!
W.A.
ETHEL DAVIES.
Anodyne.
These are the things that kept me sane—
Ruffling reeds by a grey morass,
Wet leaves whispering in the rain,
Slow cloud shadows that cross the plain,
Fluttering leagues of the fescue grass,
Gleaming stubble or springing grain.
For these are the things that never fail —
Day’s red pyres in embers burning.
Misty eves with a moon-wraith pale,
Brown hills weaving an emerald veil
After the laggard rain’s returning,
Scents of scrub on an April gale.
These are the things that came between
Grief and the utter ends of sorrow—
Waters shot with a starry sheen
Under a starry sky serene,
Rosy eves for a radiant morrow,
Dark boughs burgeoning into green.
And I scarce r-ynember the olden pain
And only a little of all my losses
When August comes to her wide domain,
With the flying cloud and the fleeting rain,
When the gold of the wattle the creek-
side crosses
And winter’s ended her weary reign.
For these are the things I loved the most —
Tang of the seawind over the dunes,
Windy morn on a misty coast,
Trailing fog like a feckless ghost,
AA'ild winds weaving immortal runes,
Silent glens in the glinting frost.
And the misty moon-flowers srar the way
To magical midnights white and splendid
Till ever my head and heart be grey,
And I find lost glamor of yesterday
No more till the lesson of life be ended.
But these will go with me all the way.
VICTORIA.
KATHLEEN DALZIEL.
The Thrush in the Rain.
A patter of rain on the roof
And the grey thrush still can sing!
A sunbeam cold
As yellow as gold
Has touched his folded wing;
And here is proof,
.As his song can tell,
That the leaves are glad and the world goes-
well.
There are better singers than you,
O grey thrush out in the rain,
AVho fain would hold
That a gleam of gold
Is more than an hour of pain.
But is it true,
As you seem to say,
That a single sunbeam makes a day?
From the folly of clocks that chime,
Good Lord, deliver us all!
From the calendar’s hold
And the months grown cold
And the hour-glass sands that fall!
For the moment of time
That joy brings home
May be worth the years that builded Rome!
N.S.W.
D. M. W.
Rose Bay.
It is a niglit of shade and shine,
A night when love-thoughts waken,
A night of air that tastes like wine
From deep-sunk cellars taken.
Upon the shining Bay afloat,
Upon its rippling water,
A girl is singing in a boat
Some song that love has taught her.
As yonder ripples shoreward fare
All shimmering, all glancing,
Across calm tides of argent air
Her merry notes come dancing.
And now, though sinks and dies her voice,
Scant time there is to mourn it,
For bidding all who hear rejoice
Sweet sounds a silver cornet.
Sweet, sweet and low, sweet, sweet and so'fl.
Now voicing love-notes tender,
And now a voice that soars aloft,
It trembles through the splendor.
It is a night of shade and shine
A night when flowers, wind-shaken.
Yield odors smelling sweet as wine
From deep-sunk cellars taken.
The scene so rich with thrilling sound,
So filled with shining glory,
Seems like some magic region found
Alone in fairy story.
N.S.W.
RODERIC QUINN.
Regrets.
Wliat must it be to suffer no regrets?
To do, and having done, be satisfied
That it was best; to know that time forgets,
And new loves spring where one pale love
has died?
What must it be to turn the emptied cup,
And feel the drink was good—no less, no
more?
To tear the satin-petalled rosebud up,
And heave no sigh o’er beauty’s wasted
store?
But I—l bruise my heart against cold fear,
Thinking of this and that, and long-gone
things!
Regrets like dusty bats swoop near and
near,
Beating against me with their loathsome
wings.
And yet I know, in spite of after-pain,
That I should do the same each time again!
VICTORIA.
MYRA MORRIS.
Night in the Orchard.
There is a rustle in the tangled grass,
A murmuring in boughs,
As all along the lines of dreaming trees
The fitful night-wind soughs.
From the dim shelter of the ragged hedge
There comes a plaintive cry—
A little mopoke in the whispering dark
Under the starry sky.
The brown mice run with silent, scurrying
feet
Into the kindly grass,
Waiting until on hushed and widespread
wings
Their ancient foe shall pass.
The old trees crowd together, twisted boughs
Stretching long aisles across,
The cold stars twinkle through a cloister
roofed
With arches grey with moss.
Pale ghosts are here within the orchard
space,
Dim, silent forms that creep
Down pathways grown with lush, unsickled
grass
Into the shadows deep.
Wraiths of the children who played long ago
In green, leaf-patterned shade,
Ghosts of young lovers who once trysted
there,
Brown youth and blue-eyed maid.
Long have they gone into the stranger lands:
There is none but the spring
To cast a joyance on this solitude
With a pale blossoming.
But in the night the gnarled old trees will
speak
Together, soft and slow,
Of bygone springs when thick on bending
boughs
Lay the white blossom snow;
Of songs the reapers sang in sunburnt fields.
Banding the yellow grain.
When the red fruit hung on the waning trees.
Washed by a light, warm rain.
But dearest do they hold in memory
The songs the children knew,
And sang at dusk, when far the lamplight
shone
On gardens wet with dew.
'rhe green trees bent to the soft harmony,
Swaying in grave delight;
Dark are the windows whence the lamps once
threw
Their beams into the night.
But spent boughs cluster, guarding jealous]}
The grey, deserted house —
Down in the tangled grass the little owl
Has caught a straying mouse.
N.s.w.
LILLA GORMHUILLE MCKAY.


/
rr"
Frigidaire is also a General
Motors Product, and, like
Delco-Light, it is DEPEND-
ABLE. Frigidaire creates its
own cold and makes ice cubes
for table use.
No matter where your home
may be, it is now thoroughly
practicable to equip it with
electric refrigeration.
LIGHTING system may be cheap to buy,
economical in operation, silent running,
and beautiful in appearance, and yet if it
lacks but one quality—dependability —it
will be regarded as a failure. It matters little to an
owner whether the cause of the plant failure is small
or large; he is justly annoyed. He rightly expects
to have electricity available 24 hours each day and
365 days each year.
Delco-Light possesses all the desirable qualities set
out above, but above all it is dependable. The key-
note of Delco-Light design was simplicity—from its
inception—and much time and money has been spent
in research, having for its object the elimination, or
simplification of the parts which are apt to give trouble
in an ordinary plant.
Many Delco-Light plants installed in 1917 are still
giving excellent service; some of them under the most
adverse conditions, where failure is fraught with
serious consequences. These plants have saved their
cost many times over and are proofs of the longevity,
efficiency and, we repeat, the dependability of Delco-
Light.
You, the buyer of to-day, are purchasing an article which has stood the
supreme test —the test of time!
To-day there are over a quarter of a million Delco-Light users —over-
whelming evidence of the Superiority of Delco-Light.
The engine is of the 4-cycle, air cooled, valve-in-head type, runs on
kerosene, is direct connected to the generator, and is self-cranking.
The dynamo is a 4-pole shunt-wound machine operating as a compound-
wound motor when cranking the engine.
The battery is designed to give years of service, and is in every case of
ample capacity for its generator.
There are 25 Delco-Light models, one of which will suit your needs.
Send for Full Particulars as contained in Booklet B.
See our Display—Stand No. 2 R.A.S. Ground.
DELCO-LIGHT
Product of General Motors
WARBURTON, FRANKI, LTD., 307-11 Kent Street, Sydney.
WARBURTON, FRANKI, LTD., 380-82 Bourke Street, Melbourne.
WARBURTON, FRANKI, LTD., 233-35 Elizabeth Street, Brisbane.
PARSONS & ROBERTSON, LTD., Pulteney Street, Adelaide.
W. F. STEWART, 29 Cameron Street, Launceston, Tasmania.


9
lfg!SP
n
■
j
ilr
EL,**
Hirra
Slp%^Wi
IVifej_rjj
KSigSKi
jPa"? f tiTrtlSr f
■ ■ «‘ #:r.: ' : 4 Ml
: m
m- . 1 * s
>
;
,r ’• jp?-
2->t ,
1 ■
:
y
■ ■
at Western
X
ng'ffircJ'
m H
m
i


The Bulletin
Vol. 48 —No. 2461.
April 14, 1927 l
JOCK ATLAS GARDEN CARRIES THE WORLD.
“Mr. Garden, leader of the Communist party in Australia, threatens to hold the world up if the Australian Government refuses him permission to attend a Soviet
Congress in China.”
THE ONLOOKERS: “Wonderful man our comrade is, isn’t he!”


The Bulletin
THE NATIONAL AUSTRALIAN NEWSPAPER
“Australia lor the AVliite Man.”
Printed and published by William Macleod, of
Musgrave and McLeod Streets, Mosman, for The
Bulletin Newspaper Co., Ltd., at the Office of the
Co., 214 George Street, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia.
Melbourne Office: 154-162 Flinders Street.
London Office: No. 1 Wardour Street (near Picca-
dilly Circus), W.l.
PUBLISHED ONCE A WEEK.
TERMS TO SUBSCRIBERS
(In Advance only).
Posted to ANY ADDRESS IN AUSTRALASIA, Weekly.
12 months, Xi 1 J/s.; ti months, 12s. (id.; 3 months, is.
To any address Overseas: 12 months, XI lus.; 6
months, 15s. (id.; 3 months, Bs.
Cheques, drafts, etc., which should he crossed, and
all Business Communications to be addressed to the
Manager.
Special Notice.
All correspondence to be addressed to Box 2 521 8.8.,
G.P.0., Sydney.
Insufficiently stamped letters are liable to be
refused. ~ . , ~
The contents of this paper are copyright by the
publishers. The right to reproduce or translate any
part of the contents of this number is hereby expressly
reserved by the publishers.
The Editor will carefully read and, where practic-
able, acknowledge in the “Correspondence” column
all contributions submitted, whether in the form of
Political, Social or other Articles, Verse, Short Idles
or Sketches (those dealing with Australian subjects
and not exceeding tuo columns in length, or, say,
3000 words, are specially acceptable) . Paragraphs,-
Lotters or Newspaper Clippings, All communications
if ill be regarded as strictly confidential.
The Bulletin will return all unsuitable MS. when
the address is specified and stamps are enclosed, but
no MS. will be returned or preserved unless these
conditions are observed. When MS. is forwarded
without stamps for return it will be understood that
the copy is to be destroyed if not acceptable. 1 er-
sonal applications for return of MS. cannot receive
attention. Further. The Bulletin desires those
sending MS. to distinctly understand that it is not
responsible for the preservation or transmission of MS.
To Amateurs in Black anil White.
Anyone supplying to The Bulletin original
humorous or other topical drawings in line or wash,
of sufficient merit and interest and, adapted for
direct reproduction, or any interesting photograph
illustrative of a current event will be paid for same
on acceptance. Any picture containing a good idea
but unfitted for direct reproduction — i.e., any picture
which has to be re-drawn—will be paid for as a
suggestion only. The conditions under which such
artistic contributions will be received are those
applying to M.B.
To Travellers Abroad.
“The Bulletin’s” representative in London is
L,. St. C. Gromlona, No. 1 Wardour Street
(near Piccadilly Circus), W.l. Copies of
“The Bulletin” can be obtained from him or
the bookstall in the Main Hall at Australia
House. .1 iso from Messrs. Gordon and Gotch. 75-
?y Farringdon Street, London, E.C.4.; and IF. Daw-
son and Sons, Cannon House, Breams Buildings,
London, E.C.1,.; E. T. Hole, Uolerlh Satire Ser-
vice, 46 Fleet Street, London E.C.; “The British
Australian and New Zealander,” )/)-/' Australia
llouse. Strand, London, 1F.C.2; F. Algur, 38 Grace-
church Street, London, E C.S.
South Africa. —The Central News Agency, Cape-
town, Durban and■ Johannesburg; Dawson and Son,
Capetown and Johannesburg; Havana House, Durban;
Rhodesia News Agency. Salisbury; Henoni News
Agency, Benoni; Handel House, Kimberley, and
others.
Canada.— G. S. Forsyth and Co., 441 Hastings
Street, Vancouver, B.C.
U.S.A. — Chicago: J. Roland Kay Co., 161 East
Erie Street, N. Michigan Boulevarde; Post Office
News Co., 33 West Monroe Street, Chicago. New
York: Brentano’s, 3th Avenue and 27th Street, New
York City; Schultz News Agency. S.E. Corner 6th
Avenue and 42nd Street, New York City; Hotaling’s
News Agency, 203 West 41st Street, New York City.
Washington: Liberty News Co., Seattle, Washington;
Wheatley News Co., 704 Market Street, San Francisco;
Wallace, The New Orleans News Man. 105 Royal
Street. New Orleans, La. ; The Wide World News Stand,
7,1,11 South Main Street, Los Angeles, Cal.
Kuyi’T.— Jacques. Horn and Co., the Colonial
Booh and Ncivs Stores. Port Said, Egypt.
Mono Kong. —Brewer and Co., 696 Redder Street,
lloikj Kong.
China. —Brewer and Co., 31. Nanking Road.
Shanghai, China.
Ceylon. — T. L. Ve Silva, 39 Chatham Street,
Colombo.
Papua. —Whitten Bros., Samarai and Port Moresby.
Fiji.—. 4. Barker. Suva; Harry Gardiner, Metropole
Hairdressing Saloon, Suva.
Overseas Advertising Representatives.
London. —L. St. C. Grondona, No. 1 Wardour
Street (near Piccadilly Circus), W. 1.; Gordon and
Gotch, 75-79 Farringdon Street, London, E.C.4.
IT.fi.A.— J. Roland Kay Co., 161 East Erie Street,
N. Michigan Bonlerarde. Chicago.
Postage Rates.
Single copies of Tins Bulletin (registered as a
newspaper): — Commonwealth, New Zealand and Fiji;
iOor.. Id. United Kingdom: ioz. to 10oz., lid.; each
additional 40z., Id. All Sea Route: 160 z.. lid.
British Possessions and U.S.A.: 4oz. or part thereof,
Id. Elsewhere. 20z.. Id.
27uTfyxz2le£ioi.
THURSDAY, APRIL 14, 1927.
OUR HEAVY FATHER IN GOTHAM.
No one expressed audible surprise over the
news that N. S. Wales is on the war-
trail for another £5,000,000-loan in New
York, for it is recognised that if the exist-
ing Ministry heard of a possible loan in
Sheol it would order an asbestos suit and
buy its asbestos ticket and start early.
The matter is said to be already arranged,
and when it is completed the Lang combi-
nation will have added over £14,000,000 to
the State’s foreign liabilities inside a year,
in addition to borrowing locally all on
which it could lay its clutching hand. A
languid stir has been created by the fact
that Uncle Samuel should have developed
such a willingness to lend in such circum-
stances, and Uncle’s readiness is quoted
as proof that Australian finances in gen-
eral are sound to the core. Such an astute
customer, it is argued, would not lend
except on unimpeachable security. Against
this stands the fact that the U.S. has
become so gorged with wealth that there
isn’t nearly enough unimpeachable security
to go round. It has practically exhausted
the demand for local railways and pos-
sibly of skyscrapers. There is a limit to
the policy of selling much abroad and buy-
ing little in return. The production of
merchandise for outside customers comes
in collision with the circumstance that some
outside customers don’t want too much
merchandise because it interferes with their
own industries, and some, like Australia,
can’t continue buying Uncle’s wares at the
old rate unless. Uncle himself lends them
the money—takes their lOU, to put the
matter plainly. Australia buys from the
United States close on £30,000,000-worth
per annum more than it can persuade
that shy customer to purchase in return.
While the Old Man in London invariably
found the money with which to settle
trade balances like this, our Uncle had a
tendency to leave him the job. But when
the Old Man showed signs of wearing out,
it became a matter of losing trade or tak-
ing the more or less satisfactory p.n.
And, after all, a p.n., with strong collect-
ing power to enforce it, looks better than
nothing.
* * * *
But while going into a business which has
landed the Old Man in London with a
multitude of bad debts, including the bad
debts of several of Uncle’s own States, the
financiers at Gotham take a minimum of
risk and sometimes charge a big discount
for taking it. The Old Man’s general ex-
perience has been that, when a Dominion
loan fell due, the Dominion reported that
not the slightest provision had been made
for the day of reckoning, and if J. Bull
didn’t lend the money with which to pay
himself, then J.B. would have to go without.
To avert the like of this, the New Yorkers
insist that a sufficient sinking fund shall be
attached to each loan, the instalments to
be paid in real money, and New York
to hold this fund so that there shall be
no doubt about it. The arrangement con-
stitutes Uncle a sort of preference credi-
tor or first mortgagee, and may create a
natural reluctance on the part of the Old
Man in London to go deeper, after an
indiscriminate fashion, into the job of being
a second mortgagee. This might be the
case even if he had the money, which
he certainly hasn’t at present. The shock-
ing Budget, partly the result of a coal
strike, which he has just presented to him-
self, is evident of that. It is even suggested
that Australia may be invited to negotiate
some big approaching renewals in Wash-
ington’s country, and repay the Old Man
with coin instead of with a further promis-
sory nob.
* » » #
Should the Yankee get into a fixed habit
of lending us money, partly at least in order
that we may buy his goods, he will natu-
rally expect to sell us his goods. It has
been his custom to have the highest tariff
wall on the market, and to sell much while
buying little; and though he couldn’t pos-
sibly object to Australia penalising other
people’s goods, a distinct coolness might
develop if serious restrictions were put on
his own. In case of default, which may
be impossible but which grows less im-
possible every day, the most natural pro-
ceeding would be for Uncle to invite J.
Bull to bring pressure to bear on his de-
faulting sons. Uncle is a strenuous col-
lector, as shown by his stern and prompt
pursuit of the almost-ruined Allies. Un-
like the Old Man in London, he hasn’t
been long enough in the international loan
business to accustom himself to be taken
down by Turks, half-breeds and sundries.
Possibly J. Bull, who has long been accus-
tomed to yield the point to his large and
obstreperous relative, would bring pressure
to bear. And that might be a beneficial
experience. The possession of two habitual
creditors instead of one may bring in more
money; on the other hand, it may lead,
at some time of stress, to each suggesting
that it is the other fellow’s turn, which
would mean no money at all. But no ex-
pedients can do permanent good in the
case of a State which wants £14,000.000 of
external loans and as much internal loan
as it can find per annum, and even then
can’t come within miles of making ends
meet. It is a subject for interesting con-
jecture what kind of uprising there will be
when the money-famine arrives among the
large class which has been brought up to
make employment on loan works its steady
job. In one sense, the standpoint “after
me the deluge, and let it come,” common
to Premier Lang and the late Mrs. Pom-
padour, has some semblance of a redeeming
feature. A deluge washes some undesirables,
which is good, and washes some undesir-
ables right away, which is even better.
THE FREETRADE CAVE-DWELLERS.
When the N.S.W. graziers were recently
in session one of the Abbott clan moved
a Bulletin idea of some standing, that
the tariff should be a movable feast or slid-
ing scale, like Easter, and adaptable to more
circumstances than hitherto. The form of
his proposition was, as The Bulletin has
already noted, that if a foreign country
consistently sells us vast quantities of goods
and refuses to take much save gold in re-
turn, our duties against that country should
rise liberally in an attempt to restore the
balance. It should become the least-favored
nation, and get preference upside-down.
The scheme was directed chiefly against the
United States, as the adverse trade balance
with that great but absorbent republic has
amounted to clo-e on £30.000.000, or £5
for each Australian inhabitant, in a single
year, and the capacity to meet it, except
with the aid of loans, is very deficient.
To the credit of the graziers, the motion
was carried unanimously.
Thereupon the Freetrade troglodytes
arose, and stamped all over the S. M. Herald
in protest. They stated quite truly that
there are nations to which Australia sells
a good deal and from which it buys much
less, the most notable example being France.
Every French inhabitant ■ is called upon
to pay us 10s. a year to square the balance.
It isn’t much; but, still, the Freetraders ex-
plained that the French, likewise the Bel-
gians, Germans, Italians and Japanese, have
the same right to retaliate against us as
we have against Hail Columbia. They
assuredly have, and if they can find a good
local substitute for Australian wool, they
certainly will. The troglodytes discoursed
largely in the troglodyte paper about the
unfairness and ignorance and dog-meanness
of expecting the aggregate outsider to take
a maximum of merchandise from us while
we take a minimum from him. The unlucky
situation is that Australia is pledged to
export more interest in proportion to popu-
lation than any other country which still
keeps out of bankruptcy. The total is now
over £30,000,000 per annum. If Australia
sells goods abroad to the value of, say,
150 millions and buys to the extent of
only 120, the outside creditor can have his
interest. If it trades fairly, as the troglo-
dytes understand the term, and accepts im-
ports in full exchange for exports, then the
outsider can go without his interest, unless
he is content to aggravate the case by
lending himself the money with which to
pay himself. If he really wants to sell us
goods to the full value of his purchases
from us, then he deserves to go without
his interest, provided it is the right man
who gets the knock. But if, through buy-
ing to gross excess from Uncle Sam, J. Bull
can’t, get his interest, it will be the wrong
man who gets the knock.
♦ * # ♦
Australia has the choice of three alter-
natives :
It may swindle its external creditors right
off by stopping payment of interest.
It may pay them for a while out of more
loans and swindle them later on.
Or it may insist, despite troglodytes and
all their theories, in selling abroad some 30
millions’ worth more merchandise per year
than it buys abroad, and meet its liabilities
honestly with the difference.
In this connection the invariable A. G.
Huie girded on his armor in the S. M.
Herald after this uncompromising fashion: —
Mr. Abrott seems to be absolutely inno-
cent of any knowledge of the economic posi-
tion .... In 1924-25 imports into Australia
amounted to £157,143,196, and exports from
Australia to £162,030,159. During the year
we actually sent away more wealth than we
received in exchange, in spite of the fact that
important loans were raised abroad which
must of necessity have come here in the shape
of imported goods.
The Freetraders’ contention that all our
exports and all our foreign borrowings must
of necessity come here in the shape of
imported goods makes no provision at all
for meeting the outside liability, chiefly for
interest, which the Federal Statistician
placed two years ago at £28,000,000 p.a., and
it has grown considerably since. It doesn’t
provide for even paying external interest
out of new loans, for the rampant Free-
trader insists that they must all arrive in
the form of bales and bags of fluff and
things, and none must reach us in the char-
acter of a receipted bill showing that a big
account has been discharged somehow. In
this way he distinctly implies that much
of Australia’s impoi’ted hat and coat is, and
must be, debited to posterity, and insists
that a great economic truth lurks in the
fact—a truth which only noodles fail to
appreciate.
* * * *
Freetrade had certain small points in
Britain when Gladstone and Peel were on
deck, for Britain didn’t need to send a
surplus of exports abroad to pay a foreign
tribute. Instead it had a splendid foreign
income. But the position of Australia,
which owes to every outsider who will lend,
no more resembles that which Gladstone
and Peel argued on than an old-age pen-
sioner resembles Rothschild.
THIS COLD-TEA BUSINESS.
South Aus. has a Licensing Act under
which one-tenth of the number of enrolled
people in an electoral district or part of one,
the part being a proclaimed local-option
district, may secure a local-option poll on
the same day as a general election. The
necessary petitions were presented when the
politicians were preparing to go to the
country the other day, and the electors were
required to vote on three issues, Reduction,
Continuance, and Increase of Licenses. They
voted Continuance everywhere except the
Murray River township of Loxton, which
said it wanted more hotel accommodation—
the Licensing Court is to dqcide how much.
Reduction was routed even in the country,
where the cold-tea people imagined their
strength lay. Not including the votes for
Increase, which in a few cases were substan-
tial, Continuance won by 2553 to 814 in
South Newcastle, by 2496 to 1077 in Yorke
Peninsula, by 1602 to 558 in Noarlunga, by
832 to 253 in Clare, by 1263 to 578 in Mount
Barker, by 1041 to 355 in Millicent, and
by 2543 to 1460 in Wooroora. In metro-
politan electorates Continuance scored 7713
to 2139 in Adelaide, 12.317 to 6852 in Port
Adelaide, 12,970 to 7445 in West Torrens
and 20.199 to 13.652 in Sturt.
* . * * *
Considering all the circumstances, this is
the prohibition party’s worst defeat in Aus-
tralia, and it has experienced some bad
ones. In Westralia two years ago it was
beaten by 77,113 to 41,362. In Queens-
land about the same time, though it care-
fully selected its districts, it went under by
47.229 to 36.685. At State-wide polls, the
Queensland majorities against prohibition
were 58,398 in 1920 and 103,353 in 1923.
Victoria in 1920 voted 212,254 for No-license
and 314,614 against. With such figures on
record it is downright folly to refer this
matter to the people in one State or an-
other every year or so, merely to gratify
fanatics. The polls are very expensive, and
although they always go the same way, the
general effect is unsettling to industries
employing many thousands of Australians,
while the public has to pay more for beer,
wine, whisky and other fermented or
spirituous drinks, and for hotel meals and
beds. Even if prohibition were carried in
a particular district or a particular State,
the minority would be so large and resent-
ful and there would be so many ways of
getting liquor that the law would break
down immediately.
* * » *
The licensing laws of South Aus., and
indeed of Queensland, Tasmania, N. S.
Wales and Westralia (these two States have
fallen into line at some points), should be
made uniform with those of Victoria, which
in this matter leads the world. By the Act
of 1922 the Vic. Parliament removed the
reduction issue beyond the reach of med-
dling wowsers and placed it in the hands of
an eminently capable board. That body,
in the course of the 20 years for which it
has been at work, has reduced the number
of Vic. hotels from 3507 (one for every 360
persons) to 1870 (one for every 905), and of
“other licenses” from 1056 to 990. It has
closed 151 pubs and 30 wineshops in dis-
tricts which voted Continuance. By making
it plain to the Trade that mere drinkshops
and out-of-date buildings and conveniences
would not be tolerated, it has immensely
improved the general standard of Vic.
hotels; also it records with satisfaction that
while 10,944 persons were arrested for
drunkenness in 1907, when the population
was 1,270,000, only 6948 were arrested in
1925, the population being 1,600,000. Land-
lords and licensees provide their own com-
pensation fund, so the State will have no-
thing to pay on that account should it decide
to go dry' in 1930 or 1938. For the 1922
Act provides for a State-wide poll every
eighth year, licenses to be abolished only if
the abolitionists secure a three-fifths majo-
rity. Eight-year intervals are too
short, but this point might be waived if the
other State Governments could be induced
to adopt the Vic. system in its entirety. It
would not be too big a price to pay for the
very decided advantages of uniformity.
SAVE THE SOLDIER SETTLERS!
At the dose of the war some 11,000 soldier?
were more or less settled on the land in
Victoria, through the agency of a special
board. What the scheme has or will cost
is largely unknown. But during the last
five years £23,000,000 of loan money has
been absorbed. The wholesale land pur-
chases of the Closer Settlement Board
created something of a land boom —this
and the phenomenal price of foodstuff'
during and immediately after the war.
Most of these lands plus the years 01
labor of their occupiers would not now
bring in the market the inflated prices the
Repat. paid for them.
To the Repat. it may have looked sound
business, since the settlers were—and are-
supposed to repay every penny with in-
terest. But it is now certain that after a
lifetime of hard labor many settlers would
be still immersed in debt to the Board. For
years there has been a demand for re-
valuation and wiping out of interest on
these abnormal purchase-prices. A deaf ear
has been turned by the barnacles, and
many settlers have simply abandoned their
holdings together with years of work and
all the capital they possessed. The Board
has made patchwork concessions and defer-
ments here and there, but nothing less than
a thorough investigation and review can
save the situation; unless something radiea-
is done, very many abandoned farms wi-
strew the map. Probably most will b
among the more difficult country, suet
as in the Gippsland hills. Here the land
is valuable and productive only while '
is under the eye of the master. Left alone
it quickly reverts to the wild, becoming
jungle or scrub, or, worse still, a breeding-
ground for pests such as blackberries, briars
ragwort, thistles, burrs, rabbits—these las
killing out any useful young forest tree?.
It would be a national calamity if the?'
settlers should be driven off the land thus-
It would be sounder economics to give the
lands gratis to those who could maintain
them in high productivity. For, despite
world’s parity, dry years and the other
demons that beset farmers, those among
them who are not weighed down with th.?
millstone of exorbitant, artificial values and
interest are winning wholesome competen-
cies from their holdings.
It may be, as The Bulletin has otten
suggested, that the Government blunderer
in encouraging so many settlers on the lane-
It is possible that more strenuous effort'
at industrial and manufacturing develop-
ments might have been a better nations>
speculation. But the point now is to ?e ’
guard as much as possible the huge ?i“-
sunk in settlement, and to do it such er ‘ r .
as have proved themselves fitted tor j; ! ,
agricultural life must be saved from hnanii
shipwreck. The Board must see the mini


through. Some portion of the boomed land
values and interest must be wiped off as
a bad debt incurred through bad buying.
The proposed District Boards to deal with
each individual case of hardship may do
the work. But the Government, whatever
it may be, must be prepared to act in
no half-hearted manner. Not closer settle-
ment but successful settlement must now
be the slogan. Settlers are protected by
no kindly award of wages and hours. Union
hours were never expected. But remunera-
tion sufficient to maintain a white man’s
standard of living is still hoped for.
There is another reason why the plight
of the soldier settlers calls for immediate
iind sympathetic attention. Most of these
Diggers at the conclusion of the war were
young men—single young men. Now they
are nearly all men with young families. The
country does not offer the attractions the
city does to remain a bachelor. Nor does
it to any extent believe in race-suicide.
There are sturdy quiverfuls on the blocks
whose fate lies in the hands of the Govern-
ment.
FRANCE MURPHY.
PLAIN ENGLISH.
Wanted, a Census of Apprentices.
Another echo lately came from the legal
bower where Judue Beeby dispenses justice
and heaps of personal opinion. Newspaper
report:—
“The limitation of apprentices in the
engineering trade was referred to in the
Arbitration Court. Mr. M. McG. Hender-
son, formerly of the Commonwealth rail-
ways, said the limitation was a disgrace to
the country. Instead of a limitation of one
apprentice to three journeymen, it should be
one to one. Judge Beeby remarked that
such an increase might result in another
dead-end occupation. He certainly would not
order it.”
This is by common consent a great country,
and the immensity of the skilled work
which might be done here but isn’t done is
evidenced by the vastness of the imports
of products made by skilled workers in other
lands. As population grows, the demand
for skill must grow likewise, and, besides,
new inventions are constantly opening new
fields for engineering and other industry,
quite apart from the growth of population.
In this respect the skilled trade has pros-
pects which are quite absent from meat
and milk delivering, light porterage, pick-
and-shovelling on new loan railways which
are not expected to pay, and the like. Yet
to all these hopeless occupations the un-
fortunate youth of the country is admitted
without stint, and the demoralising resulr,
is that the name of “John Smith, laborer.”
aged anything from 17 upwards, almost fills
the criminal charge-sheets. In the circum-
stances it might be worth while to take a
sporting risk, and admit a few more youths
to a highly technical occupation which is
always in demand all the civilised world
over, while odd-jobbing is a nigger’s line
over more than half the globe and is over-
done everywhere.
It is a quaintly inverted species of logic
which argues that, as a highly-trained artisau
may be at a dead end in slack seasons,
therefore a very large section of young
Australia should be forced, by a rigid pro-
cess of exclusion, to be a dead-ender all its
life and at all seasons. The argument might
be extended to a limitation on instruction
in writing, because writing leads to clerical
pursuits, and the supply of clerks is always
apt to exceed the demand. In fact, the
Beeby attitude might be called one of mis-
guided hostility to education. Yet educa-
tion doesn’t absolutely blight a man’s
chances in life, for the highly-trained
engineer can turn temporary odd-jobber at
a pinch. On the other hand, all the pinch
ever invented can’t turn the stereotyped
odd-jobber into a trained engineer.
There is a lamentable lack of information
as to the number of apprentices in Aus-
tralia, and a still worse lack of information
as to the number in each trade. If this was
repaired, as it should be, surprising results
would almost certainly come to light. It is
common to assume that permission to
employ one apprentice to three journeymen
means that there is one apprentice to three
journeymen. It may much more easily
signify that there is one to ten journeymen.
Many employers regard the teaching business
as not worth while, and many more are in
a small and precarious way, and are not
sure of always having the three journey-
men, or any journeymen at all. In the
country districts of N.S.W. nearly a thou-
sand factories have an average complement
of the working proprietor and one employee,
and another 400 just fluctuate on the border
of being qualified to teach one apprentice.
O
A New University for N. S. Wales.
Dear Bulletin, —“Double Graduate” urges
the founding of a new University in N. S.
Wales—“at Newcastle or one of the North
Coast towns.” “Decentralisation,” which he
urges as his “most important reason,” is
often good business, but not necessarily
commendable in University-founding. His
comparison with Oxford and Cambridge is
unhappy, since these institutions are the
v ery centres of all that British education
means. In their centralisation lies their
strength and their merit. Either or both of
them would hardly have reached their pin-
nacles of excellence had, say, a ruffled
“Double Graduate” of the time successfully
urged Queen Elizabeth to establish a rival
at Newcastle-on-Tyne, on account of the
“over-bearing disposition” of their govern-
ing corporations.
Under more liberal treatment the original
Grose Farm grant of 128 acres—subse-
quently increased by 17-j acres, and not yet
incapable of being further added to—on
which the Sydney University buildings are
erected, could have been, and still may be,
converted into “a thing of beauty and a
joy for ever,” despite the absence of placid
rivulets. The fault, if any, for the absence
of sylvan silences lies rather with the failure
to extend and beautify the properties of the
colleges, which are far too few in number.
The bestowal of grants for colleges and
their foundation on sectarian bases was an
initial mistake, and about as logical in con-
nection with a seat of learning as would be
the segregation into separate collegiate pens
of those who had red hair or flat feet. For
a University which “in most of its faculties
is taxed to the utmost,” Sydney’s has fewer
colleges than any other in the world. The
dream of the first principal, Dr. Woolley,
voiced in his inauguration speech on October
11,1852, has not materialised. He said “
Ere this generation has passed away the
waters of the Parramatta River or the
quiet bays of our beautiful harbor may
mirror in their crystal depths many a rev-
erend chapel, and pictured hall, and solemn
cloister, and pleasant garden, like those
which gem the margin of the Isis and the
Cam.”
Evidently a distaste for the discipline of
college life has induced most of the under-
graduates of the intervening years to pre-
fer risking “the lure of the too-many butter-
fly attractions” which are so inimical to
“quiet study.” But the “too-modern, not-a-
true-university city” of Sydney can not be
blamed for this. Urgent clamoring by a
sufficiency of rural and urban fee-paying
parents would ere this have filled, enlarged,
beautified and multiplied the colleges, and
provided, at nominal cost, their under-
graduate sons and daughters with that price-
less addition—not mentioned in the curricu-
lum—the chance to acquire the true spirit of
University life. The tendency on the part
of latter-day Governments, parents and stu-
dents to regard the University as a mere
learning-shop is at the root of much of the
faculty overcrowding. For students of this
description the University has made what
provision she could, the same which was
originally made in Oxford and Cambridge,
before pious munificence had surrounded
the public University with those sumptuous
private foundations which are the envy and
the admiration of Europe.
When “Double Graduate” offers invidious
comparisons between the University of Syd-
ney and those of Oxford and Cambridge
without offering any suggestion for making
his Alma Mater more like either of them,
it is time he was reminded that the de-
famed one’s coat-of-arms is a composite of
those of the parent bodies with the South-
ern Cross added, and that the motto “Sidere
mens eadem■ mutato” might be well worth
his re-translation and belated appreciation.
—Yours, etc., S. N. R.
4
The Rights of Labor.
To understand the tremendous stir caused
by the Trade Disputes Bill lately brought
down by the Baldwin Government in
Britain you must keep in mind the
history of the English Labor movement.
The root of the opposition is to be found in
the fact that the bill limits the right to
strike, the most ardently cherished of all
the rights won for themselves by British
working men. Yet it is a right that has
been surrendered, in principle at all events,
by the workers in Australia and Maoriland,
the majority of whom are bound by their
own consent to submit trade disputes to a
State tribunal, to stay on the job in the
meantime, and to accept whatever decision
may be made.
But Labor in Britain has had a much
harder row to hoe than Labor in the
“colonies.” It still feels the scars of harsh
oppression, and its keynote is still utter
distrust of employers as a class. The fact
that almost all the “rights” it has acquired
are in conflict with the general principles of
English law, and that the courts still look
upon them with a dubious eye, has helped
to foment suspicion and rancor, and when
the “rights” have been successfully chal-
lenged at law, as in the Osborne case, the
result has been to convince English Labor
that all other classes are arrayed against it.
And now Stanley Baldwin, the most con-
ciliatory Conservative Prime Minister that
Labor ever had to deal with, proposes to
take away such color of legality as could be
found for organising political strikes, assault-
ing workers who refused to strike or took
strikers’ places, or compelling members of
industrial unions to subsidise a political
party.
It is all very distressing, especially to the
Labor leaders of the old brigade, such as
Macdonald, Clynes and Thomas, who
remember more about the way those privi-
leges were won and the battles fought to
win them than they do about the uses to
which they have been put. Yet, looking
at the matter apart from the cloud of
historical sentiment that surrounds it, it is
to be doubted whether the changes pro-
posed would not do Labor more good than
harm. Never was a right more scandalously
abused than that of “peaceful picketing”—
the phrase nowadays is merely a sarcasm.
As to the advantages to be gained by coer-
cing trades unionists into a political
party, there is little evidence of them in the
present industrial condition of Britain, while
in Australia the workers have no reason to
be thankful that their political and indus-
trial organisations are inextricably inter-
mixed. The American Federation of Labor,
which steers clear of politics altogether, has
some very good arguments for its attitude.
The principle that servants of the State
should not combine with workers outside
the service, though its ethics are a matter of
opinion, is one that has commended itself
to all intelligent Governments, Labor or
otherwise, for obvious practical reasons, and
its enforcement in Britain certainly will not
involve any drastic change.
However, the measure will be productive
of a most hearty scrap, and Baldwin, if he
wins, as he almost certainly will, may have
reason to regret his ictory.
' *
The Red P' wwl of Science.
The King’s phyi.. .mrd Dawson, de-
clares emphatically mat without vivisection
the doctors will have to shut up shop. If
the dogs don’t come to the profession then
the profession must go to the dogs. “If,”
he said at the B.M.A. Conference held in
London to protest against further restrictions
on vivisection, “it is wrong to use dogs in
search of knowledge, it follows logically that
it is wrong to use any higher animal.” Yet,
he pointed out, thousands of lives have been
saved by the discovery of insulin, which
crowned years of experimentation with dogs.
Dismal philosophers preach that pain is
an essential part of life, the factor that bal-
ances pleasure. That may be so; but common
humanity revolts against unnecessary suffer-
ing inflicted upon lives impotent to save
themselves. The whole question turns upon
that one word “unnecessary.” There are
three schools of thought in this matter.
The profession as a whole, though not with-
out exceptions, claims that the interests and
the sufferings of the lower animals must be
subordinated to the interests and welfare
of human beings. If, as in the case of
insulin, it may be necessary to experiment
on a regiment of dogs, the experimentation
is justified by relief to the sufferings of
humanity. Moreover, in modern days all
such experiments are carried out under con-
ditions that practically exclude pain. The
second school is one of compromise. Dubious
about the necessity, it urges that all such
experiments should be surrounded with a
maximum of precautions; that the necessity,
if it exists, must be limited to its extreme
point. The third school, represented by
the British Union for Abolition of Vivi-
section, is uncompromising—it will have
none of the abomination.
In July of this year an Anti-Vivisection
and Animal Protection Congress is to be
held in London, and probably the B.M.A.
is following the ancient advice of getting
one’s blow in first. The fight within the
ring of the vivisectionists themselves will be
between the restrictionists and the whole-
hoggers. On this question the uninformed
Australian layman finds himself on the horns
of a dilemma. He has just, put his hand in
his pocket and contributed freely to a cancer
research fund. Modern cancer research,
according to a presumably reliable authority,
“may be considered to date from the year
1901, when it was first proved possible to
inoculate a mouse with cancer cells re-
moved from another.” Is it justifiable to
sacrifice a mouse or a million mice that
from the shoulders of humanity should be
lifted some of the burdens of this terrible
disease? One feels inclined to say, unhesi-
tatingly, yes. Yet no one can read in cold
blood and unmoved the literature widely
circulated by the B.U.A.V. It is full of stark
horrors—tells of “keeping dogs alive with
their hearts cut open,” of necropsies made on
unfortunate animals revealing enormous
dilation of the heart, congestion of liver,
spleen, lungs and kidneys. The profes-
sional man declares that this does not
reveal torture, that his victims are pro-
foundly insensible throughout. One of
their own fraternity denies that this is true.
“How,” he asks, “is it possible to give
chloroform to a dog who is being slowly
baked to death in an oven; who is being
crushed in a machine by such an excess of
atmospheric pressure that it becomes stiff
as a log, and its brain runs like cream?”
And so on, horror upon horror.
Yet this is what research means, and
without it, without this cutting and burning
of the guinea-pig, the dog, the rabbit and
other beasts of one kind and another, the
King’s physician says there is an end to
scientific progress in the arrest of disease.
It is surely a red road—afid everyone out
of his common humanity must wish it were
otherwise.
The Tiir , '-'r Industry.
After a hearing e.. ...ang from January
into March, in the course of which more
than a score of witnesses for and against
were examined, the Tariff Board is again
faced with the problem of deciding whether
the business of cutting down and cutting
up our native timbers is to be assisted
by means of the imposition of increased
duties on imported Oregon and other
foreign timbers, or whether, as an industry,
it is to be allowed to perish. On a previ-
ous occasion, after a similar inquiry, certain
recommendations were made in favor of
increased duties, more especially on case-
shooks. with which the country was and
still is being flooded from Baltic and Ameri-
can ports; but the Minister failed to give
effect to the recommendation, stating that-
it had not been considered necessary to
introduce any changes. Since the prepara-
tion and presentation of the last report
(September, 1925), business in native tim-
bers has steadily fallen off, whilst that in
imported timber from America, Japan and
Scandinavia has increased; and the cold
and concrete fact faces us that many mills,
employing much Australian labor and capi-
tal, have closed and are closing, and a
further exodus from country and influx into
city of workers is taking place.
Representations to Minister and members
in both Representatives and Senate were
made, and a promise was secured that the
1927 report and recommendation would be
brought before Parliament; but the session
ended with nothing done. Yet the case
seems quite simple. Can’t we grow our
own timber requirements in Australia? Must
we hire mostly foreign ships to bring this
bulky article, cut by foreign workmen,
from another hemisphere? If we can pro-
duce our own requirements, and if it is
not desirable that we should pay foreign
workmen and foreign ships to do a job which
we can do ourselves, then how do those in
authority propose to maintain and extend
the industry, except through the Customs?
Granted that it may increase for a while
the price of some timber. But when did
that begin to be an insuperable obstacle to
a duty? If it is an insuperable obstacle,
then our alleged Protectionist policy is a
sham.
*
Touch and Go in China.
Nothing that has yet happened in China
has had such sinister significance as the
seizure of the Russian Embassy at Pekin by
troops of the Pekinese Government. From
time immemorial the person and entourage
of an ambassador upon foreign soil, with his
residence and effects, have been deemed
inviolable, no matter how grave his trans-
gressions against the Government he was
accredited to. To what extent the European
Powers and America are involved it is im-
possible at the moment to say, so conflicting
are the reports; but it is more than probable
that the British Government has had the
spectre of approaching trouble with Russia
in its mind for months past; it is hardly
possible to justify the extent of the military
and naval expeditions to China on any other
ground. Heavy Russian mobilisation in
Siberia has been reported, on top of the long
campaign of Red propaganda in Central and
Southern China, a campaign recently re-
ported to be increasing in Pekin itself. The
recent arrest at Shanghai of Madame Boko-
din, with her “suite,” has in all probability
supplied the culminating factors; the papers
in her possession appear to have put beyond
doubt Russia’s activity throughout China;
and the attack upon China is almost con-
fessedly only a step onward in the Soviet
attack upon the world.
The Bigger* 4 ‘Bulletin. ”
The Bulletin breaks in upon the consider-
ation of more public affairs for a moment to
say thank you to the readers—literally hun-
dreds—who have poured in their compli-
ments and messages of congratulation upon
the improvements and additions lately made
to the paper. The changes, though they are
by no means yet complete, have obvious'y
rejoiced thousands of old readers—and, inci-
dentally, already gained thousands of new
ones. The movement was frankly taken lo
increase the circulation—an increase ren-
dered practicable by new printing-presses
installed during the last two and a half
years—and we can reciprocate the good
wishes of our friends with the assurance
that, even from that more or less sordid
point of view, the change has been beyond
our highest anticipations.
Does the State Hate Industry?
“N.K.C.”: In Victoria recently a wife sued
her husband for maintenance, only to dis-
cover that she had forfeited it by getting
to work. It seemed that the Court had
previously awarded her £2 maintenance for
herself and her baby. To supplement it. she
got a job in a factory at £2 13s. The
husband’s lawjmr, hearing of this, advised his
client to stop paying maintenance. He did,
and when the wife sought to enforce her
claim, the Court ordered maintenance to be
paid for the child at 15s. weekly, but decided
that the mother was not entitled to receive
anything. As the same treatment has been
meted out to me and my children, I can
only conclude that the State sets a premium
on loafing and pauperism.
: ♦
“C.J.”: There is an uneasy impression
abroad in parts of the Northern Territory
that Black Brother is getting too sophis-
ticated in the use of the white man’s poison,
and is finding it too easy to get hold of
the same. Grounds for uneasiness date back
some years, when the manager of Lymbunya
station found his best dog dead one morn-
ing. Afterwards it leaked out that one of
the abo. stock-boys had done the deed, hav-
ing purchased or stolen strychnine. A
couple of years later a white cook named
Parker, on the same station, died suddenly
at a time when there were no other whites
around. Months later one of the natives
about the place said Parker had been pois-
oned by another abo. The bones were
exhumed, a blackfellow was arrested, and
there was a trial, but a conviction wasn't
possible. At Victoria River Downs it is well
known that the blacks have strychnine in
their possession, and the dark gentlemen say
that a buck named Melie, who was spouse
of some desirable gins, was eliminated by a
rival polygamist, who put a dose of the
white powder in his tucker. It ought to be
me tie a penal offence to sell poison to a
black, or even nut it into his possession or
keeping.


CONSERVATION
is just thrift. The farmer conserves fodder in the good years against the season
, drought or . dood. and by his preparedness for such times his progress mav
largely be estimated.
Thrift does not mean the mere hoarding of anything, but the wise use of
such material, whether it be foodstuff, money or other material.
J *"" i,lks ot lifp - !1 "" *■»
t,IC "* ** fte “ mies *•"* * » Bank will
Post-Office 8 Agencjfof " * T* -* ****** service b, ever,
(Tommonwealtb lank of Hustrali
la
(Guaranteed by the Commonwealth Government.)
PRACTICAL TESTS
HAVE PROVED
The Supremacy of
“MANGROVITE”
Leather or Raw-hide
Belting
w
A 4
l
:>.t
Every foot of this high-grade Australian product is guaranteed. '°
ensure years of steady, unfaltering transmission service, experienced
engineers specify "Mangrovitc” on every drive, big or little.
MANGROVITE BELTING LTD.,
Charles Ludowici, Managing Director.
49 York Street (Wynyard Square), Sydney.
POLITICAL
POINTS
There may not be an elective Ministry in
Victoria as a result of the appeal to the
people, but there ought to be. The Labor
party, which had 28 Assembly seats (out of
65) in the last Parliament, was assured of the
same number when counting ceased on
Saturday night, and hoped that contingent
votes would give it three or four others. It
will be easily the strongest single party
when Parliament meets, but is very unlikely
to have a majority of its own. Tlie Nation-
alists lost Eggleston, the Attorney-General,
in St. Kilda; Farthing, the chairman of com-
mittees, _in Caulfield; Baird, in Ballarat;
Barnes, in Walhalla; and Oman, in Hampden.
The Cockies did not fare as badly as their
allies, but it will be impossible for the Allan-
cocks to carry on. There will probably be a
Hogan (Labor) minority Government, with
Dunstan (Country Prog.), McLachlan (In-
dependent), Burnett Gray (Liberal) and
Forrest (Prog. Lib.) holding the balance of
power. An elective Ministry would be heaps
better.
Vic. Labor wasn’t really harmed by the
redistribution of seats against which it thun-
dered from the Murray to the sea. The
new boundaries actually strengthened the
party in some country districts, previously
doubtful,, while they caused a serious Nation-
alist split, embittered the feeling between
Allan’s Country party and Dunstan’s Coun-
try Progs., and enabled the Hogan group to
Poll a big sympathy vote. Should Hogan be
placed in a position to remould the scheme
he lias so passionately denounced he will
probably drop the subject, as Collier has
done in Westralia.
Westralian Labor failed in its onslaught
on Gascoyne and Roebourne, two of the four
northern electorates in which polling took
place on Saturday. But it held Kimberley
and is leading in Pilbara, and, having pre-
viously captured half the number of Assembly
seats, it is assured of a small majority for
perhaps three years.
State election returns arrived so slowly
from out-back South Aus. that it took nearly
a fortnight to decide that Labor had lost
10 of its 26 Assembly seats. The party did
not deserve so cruel a drubbing, and it might
have saved six seats by going in for single
electorates and preferential voting, instead
of reserving those reforms for the indefinite
future. Multiple electorates and first-past-
the-post served it well in 1924 but let it
down badly this year.
The Graziers’ Association, one of the
forces behind the N.B.AV. Country party,
is recommending it to adopt pre-selection.
It would be a gross blunder, for the open
go has been a great factor in the party’s
success. Before the Cockies commit them-
selves they should wait and see what hap-
pens in Warringah. In that Federal con-
stituency, which would be safe for the
Nationalists if a hundred stood, a handful
of Nat.-Fedders are trying to thrust one
of their pets on 50,000 electors as “the
selected” candidate. They and their pet may
get a shock.
Until it was announced as a social item
that the G.-G. had administered the oath
of office to Bruce as Minister for Health,
few people had realised that the P.M. had
taken on one of the two jobs that Neville
Howse had “officially” relinquished. Then
came the official explanation that the number
of salaried portfolios had been allotted to
the nine provided for by the Ministers of
State Act, 1917, and that Howse was an
extra and was carrying on at the Health
as deputy for Bruce. In fact, he stands
in much the same relation to the P.M. as
Mackrell does to Allan in Vic. in respect
to the administration of the railways.
The move on the part of Maoriland Liberals
to drop the “Nationalist” banner that was
waved so unsuccessfully at last election
gathers force. A meeting at Auckland decided
to hoist the old flag again, and Willie Veitch,
of Wanganui, was elected leader. George
Forbes, the Nationalist leader, sent along a
friendly message, and promised that the
matter of organising a “united forward move-
THE SLEEPWALKER.
The drowsy election campaign concluded in Victoria on Saturday with nothing at all settled.
ment” would get attention as soon as all the
members are back at the talking-shop in
Wellington. After all, “Reform” can’t hold
office for ever, and Labor is not likely to cap-
ture Maoriland so long as the rural districts
hold the balance of power.
The Queensland Government lately put
up its whole 15 cattle-stations at auction,
and failed to sell one of them. The financial
report says briefly “Loss on financial year
1925-26, £152.545 11s. 1d.,” which may help
to explain. The leases are put down in the
balance-sheet, as worth £145.332 and the
improvements as worth £136,003, so a pile
of money is buried in these grazing ventures,
quite apart from £863.465 book value of
live stock, and a number of sundries. The
year’s deficit included interest on borrowed
capital, but apart from that there was a
loss of £82,581. When the Government
itself shows results like this it is difficult
to see how it can refuse large remissions
of rent to its pastoral tenants, or how it
could collect from them in full if it tried.
Territorial revenue was £962,953 in 1916-17,
but it was rushed up to £1,640.624 in
1920-21, mostly by a process of liigh-lianded
exaction. It dropped to £1,440,010 in
1925-26, and seems likely to drop further.
Payment by results is an industrial slogan
heard with increasing frequency in Maori-
land. The principle of setting a standard
task and paying a bonus for excess produc-
tion is being applied to the Government rail-
way workshops, and there is talk of altering
the I. A. and C. Act so that the Arbitration
Court may frame awards embodying the prin-
ciple. At present, it can only fix hours, mini-
mum wages and conditions of employment
that take no cognisance of the output.
Prior to Saturday, when compulsory voting
was used for the first time in a Vic. Assem-
bly election, the highest percentage of avail-
able votes polled was in 1894. Just on 71
p.c. of the voters then on the rolls went
to the booths and ruthlessly scattered the
forces that had supported J. B. Patterson,
with the result that George Turner became
Premier. Three years later the next highest
percentage, 70.83, exercised the franchise, and
the majority gave Turner another lease of
power. In ‘77, when Graham Berry won his
famous “eleventh of May” victory, the per-
centage of votes cast was only 62.29. The
1924 percentage was 59.24.
“Bildad”: The clumsy name of New South
Wales, whereby the inhabitant is either a
N._ S. Welsher or a N. S. Whaler, is a
nuisance, and the demand for a substitute
dates back far beyond Parkes’s time. I sug-
gest calling the place Horseland, partly on
account of the beast which is discussed with
profanity at so many street corners, and
partly to assert its claim as the leading
State of Horsetralia. Then the name of
Sydney could be changed to Horsetown,
which, I think, would be unique, while the
present name isn’t. Horseleap, in Ireland,
isn’t a duplicate, but only a passing resem-
blance.
The six new S. Aus. Ministers could all
belong to the A.N.A. Premier Butler, Ham-
burg, Jenkins, Tassie and Cowan are natives
of the State; Mclntosh, the Cocky chief,
was born at Branxliolme (Vic.).
Greater Brisbane Council has its own
method of getting more revenue. It prefers
bumping up valuations, and thus adding to
the nominal wealth of the country, rather
than bumping up the rate and adding to
the visible exaction on the inhabitant. On
a Brisbane property with an unimproved
capital value of £lO,OOO taxation recently
amounted to £964 7s. 9d. p.a.—water and
sewerage rates, £333 6s. 9d.; municipal rates,
1375 ; State land-tax, £229 13s. 3d. - Federal
land-tax, £26 7s. 9d. A £20,000 ’property
was taxed £2029 Bs. 4d. per annum. Greater
Brisbane covers 885 square miles, and when
it was created in 1924 by the amalgamation
of 20 separate local authorities, the debt
stood at £44 Bs. lOd. per head. The city
goes on the London or New York market
as if it was a full-grown State, which saves
Bill McCormack from going quite so often.
Wherefore Bill puffs out his honest chest.
Agitated over the knock-out of the Maori-
land Dairy Control Board in its first round
with the Tooley-street butter brokers, eow-
cockies from all parts of the Tremulous Isles
held a tangi at Palmerston North the other
day and talked of what was to be done.
Everybody said that there was no harm in
control boards, but almost everybody made
it clear that in his opinion control boards
ought not to be allowed to control. At last a
resolution was carried by 81 to 1(1 protesting
against compulsion and denying “the right
of any body of men to take possession of our
property by force in order to embark on a
hazardous venture which has no precedent
iu any part of the world.” N.B.W. farmers
ought to take warning from this Maoriland
business, since “control” is the Lang crowd’s
recipe for increasing farmers’ profits and
selling their produce cheaper to the
“workers,” a miracle which it lias light-
heartedly promised.
Industrial legislation is seldom explicit on
all points. The N.S.W. Lang variety never
is. It was believed that the chairman of a
conciliation committee, a flock of which has
been established by the Labor Government,
has a vote, and on that assumption not a few
awards have been based. Hylands, the wir,-
netting manufacturers, had their doubts, how-
ever —they had been handed an award by a
conciliation committee whose chairman had
exercised a vote. Innes J., said the award
was a good one, and his view was shared, on
appeal, by Street, 0.J., but the other members
of the Full Court fastened on the provision
that if there is an equal division between the
members of the committee the parties may
either accept a casting decision of the chair-
man or require him to refer the point to In-
dustrial Commissioner Piddington. Justices
Ferguson and Campbell could not see how
there could ever be an equal division if the
chairman had a vote. The High Court will
probably be asked to have a whang at the
problem.
Llewelyn Atkinson’s return to the Nation-
alists leaves the Cockies only a dozen strong
in the House of Reps., for Stewart no longer
attends party meetings. And one of tin-
dozen is Gregory, a terrier-like critic of the
Government and never an enthusiastic Agra-
rian. Yet the Cockies have four Ministers
in the House of Reps., and three of the four
are Victorians. One result is that the Gov-
ernment cuts a poor figure in debate, except
when Bruce or Latham has the floor, for
the Cocky Ministers and two or three of the
Nationalists can’t do much in the talking
line. This weakness, always evident in the
last Parliament when Scullin and Brennan
were attacking, has become glaring now that
Hughes and Watt are girding at the Gov-
ernment. One of the Vic. Cockies should
be dropped in favor of a good debater from
the Nationalist side. If the Cockies selfishly
insist on being over-represented, they will
sooner or later wreck the Ministry.
There is obvious danger to British Labor
in the fact that the Liberals are winning by-
elections again. When Wedgwood Benn
resigned from Leith to join Ramsay Mac-
donald’s party, another Lib. won the seat. A
Lloyd-Georgian also triumphed in North
Southwark when Haden Guest was hounded
out of the Labor party for criticising its
pro-Chow policy. At the last two general
elections scores of thousands of former
Liberals voted Labor, and this movement has
been assisted by the feeling that a party
with only 40 seats in the Commons was
doomed. Evidently many of the old adherents
have come back, being probably fed up with
pro-Moscowism and pro-Cliowism; and Leith
and North Southwark will bring many more.
While Maoriland Priminister Coates has
been bearding British manufacturers in their
lairs, imploring them to ship more of their
wares to the Shivery Isles, the importers at
home have been diligent. During 1926 they
bought close on 50 millions of stuff from
abroad and exports amounted to only a little
over 45 millions. Taking into account items
that don’t go into the trade returns, like
interest payments on foreign loans, the
Dominion must have been about 10 millions
on the debit side of the ledger for the year.
This has been partly made up by the cus-
tomary borrowing in London, and the rest
of the story is told in the depleted deposits
and increased advances of the banks. A good
many borrowed millions have been spent m
developing water-power, which is already
being produced in quantities large enough and
at a cost low enough to make Maoriland a
hive of manufacturing industry if only tin-
Government would give enough tariff protec-
tion to encourage thebees. But the Government
can’t see anything but the Farmers’ Union,
which stands for Froetrade in everything hut
farm products.
THE WISTFUL. THOUGHT.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“Rodents literally swarm at Melbourne Town Hall.
They climb the stairs and nibble the Lord Mayor’s
doormat, and play hide and seek in the old Council
Chamber.”- -Herald.
Now Day retires in a flushed reverie
< >n man. . . .and, maybe, man’s stupidity ;
And Night, the fisher, his black net has
cast
And hauls liis stars from the celestial sea.
Now Folly wakes with ever fresh device
To glamor all day’s dulness iu a trice;
To feasting and to careless revelry
At last incline the thoughts of men. . . .and
mice.
And lo! where Bumble held despotic sway
And dealt to some amaze, to most dismay,
With weighty and unwearied eloquence,
The rats are scuttling on a glad foray.
In hungry, squeaking companies they come,
Bickering all and shrewdly biting some ;
And yet. . . .these halls grave councillors
have seen,
As rudely hungry nor more seemly dumb!
Myself too oft have heard the heavy roar
Of many a mayor and ranting councillor,
Loud arguing “about it and about,”
Yet little added to my mental store.
Till now-, at gaze upon this stranger sight,
'Twould take, I am convinced (or wrong or
right),
A sage to say in which more wisdom lies—
The roar by day or yet the squeak by night.
And this my thought: although deploring rats
That swarm by night to nibble mayoral mats,
I would that Allah in his wisdom made
For councillors—no less than rodents—
cats!
QUEENSLAND.
HASEN.


Ot* C
hea
%
1
$3
A motion was on the
agenda in favour of building a brick wall
to enclose the local Cemetery. The
Town Council had discussed the matter
at some length when a newly-elected
Member summarised the suggestion thus-
“ What I feel about it is this ; the people
who are in the Cemetery can’t get out:
those outside don’t want to get in. We
don’t want a wall at all! ”
A good story and a
good cigarette are
worth repeating!
STSTE
(XPi{ESS
70for\Q
ARDATH TOBACCO CO: LTD: LONDON
SOCIETY
"And it's
Printed with
WIMBLE'S INKS"
“L.E.”: Several Bulletin contributors
have suggested reasons for the deep-seated
faith in the cllicacv of rings in warding off
disease or evil spirits. Can anyone account
for the employment of a needle and thread
for the same purpose V It is an old Celtic
superstition, and belief in its magical charm
still survives in parts of 'lreland. The
scared tramp in Synge’s peasant play “In
the Shadow of the Glen,” to protect him-
self from danger, real or imaginary, asks
the lady of the house for a needle and
thread. “There is much safety in a needle
and thread,” he explains. Beyond doubt
this takes its place with other charms known
to Irish folk-lore, but I have never been
able to find its meaning.
A HORRIBLE DILEMMA.
“Here’s a fellow says if I don’t leave his girl alone he’ll put a bullet in me
“Well, leave her alone.”
“But how can I? I don’t know which is she!”
“Gan” : 1 have discovered the true Grub-
street, not the abode of literary Bohemians,
but a place wnere food is cheap and eating-
houses as thick as thieves in Vallambrosa.
It is in Fitzroy (Melb.). There was an un-
limited choice, from a swell three-course
blow-out at Is. 3d. down to a cottee and roll
at 2d. Some places announced three courses
for a bob. Others were a la carte, where
something solid could be had for !)d. or lOd.
One advertised itself as “a place to eat that
can’t be beat” ; but I was struck by a little
restaurant that described itself as second to
none. It gave a good square meal for 7d.;
but its piece de resistance was its famous
two-course meal for Bd., chicken sometimes
appearing on the menu. How it is done
is a mystery. Still, competition is intense;
there are dozens of eating-places, not count-
ing fish and chip shops, appealing to factory-
workers and seeming to do a roaring trade.
* * * *
“Carisbrook, Jun.” : One of the most start-
ling features of listening-in is the speed at
which the ether wave travels. Listening-in
about two miles away from the Sydney
G.P.O. the other night I heard the big clock
strike 8 p.m.—by wireless. Immediately
afterwards we heard the clock actually
striking—radio had beaten it hollow. Simi-
larly, when a speech is broadcasted, the
listener-in hundreds or thousands of miles
away may hear the speaker’s voice before
it reaches the audience seated in front of
him. Radio waves travel at the speed of
about 186.000 miles per second, sound
waves at less than a tenth of it.
* * * *
“Budgeree”: Why can’t we find more
picturesque place names? The latest* atro-
city is the fastening of the appellation of
“Chatham” on a suburban station on the
Camberwell (Vic.) line. I once went over the
originaLChathamtosee England’s famous dock-
yard, and found the place to consist mostly
of mean streets, tumbledown houses and
frowsy-looking pubs. This Australian Chat-
ham is embowered in fragrant eucalypti. The
last two stations named before Chatham
were Watsonia and Hugliesdale, none the
less grotesque coinage because they com-
memorate the personality of local shire
councillors. Dr. E. I. Watkins’s book of
Australian native words contains 840, com-
piled from many sources, any one of which
would be more suitable than Chatham or
Hugliesdale for a beautiful sylvan spot.
“Feng-Slmi”: Young China has largely
taken to the habit of borrowing the names
of the great men of the West whose charac-
ters or careers have impressed them most
in the course of their education. Wellington
Koo, the Foreign Minister, is a great admirer
of the conqueror of Napoleon, and a plenti-
ful crop of Benin Fangs and Trotsky Wus
is growing up in Canton. But Kingston
Wang, one of the Judges of the new Chinese-
administered court in Shanghai, is rather
puzzling. Did he at some time fall under
the spell of South Australia’s foremost
statesman ?
* * * *
“Clerk” : The distracted traveller who re-
members as he steps into a country train
that he has forgotten to turn off the bath-
room tap or put the cat out of the house
can now rectify his omission with consum-
mate ease at Spencer-street. Railway Com-
missioner Clapp has arranged with a
Melbourne service firm to supply green-
uniformed messengers who will hover around
the dingy platforms and attend to any of
the last-minute details overlooked by passen-
gers in the rush of catching the train. They
will ’phone your home, office or neighbor,
hold the line for you after they get through,
escort strangers from the station, and deliver
messages, bags or parcels (under 141 b.
weight) anywhere within a nine-mile radius
of the G.P.O. A reasonable scale of charges
lias been drawn up, the maximum touch
being a couple of bob.
“Ex-Banker”: “Lao-dali’s” friend who
never wakes up mentally until 8 p.m. is not
in a class of his own. I was once an
accountant on the relieving staff of a bank
at a very busy country branch. A change
was made in our whole office system and
getting things straight took us nearly three
months. During that time we worked, on
an average, four nights a week, and there
Avere no adding machines in those days. One
of the ledgerkeepers, a boy of 19, showed
no special aptitude for figures during the
day, but after dark he seemed to wake up
and become little short of a genius. He proved
himself the quickest and most reliable
reckoner I have ever known, and we soon
found he was worth any other two men. I
was related to one of our directors, and in
consequence of my representations the lad
was taken away from branch work and put
on the auditing staff. His subsequent rise
was rapid.
THE GUESTS.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Two guests have lately come to stay with
us,
A decent sort of pommy and his wife—
So homely that I wonder at the fuss
Their coming’s caused; the swankincss and
strife
That, since they came, has spoilt our fam’ly
life.
Our goings-on must leave them mortified,
For they’re not blind, this pommy and liis
bride.
I'm sure they aim at being friends all round.
But, ’struth, the friendly spirit’s left out-
place
Now mum attends the dinner-table gowned
Just like an old ewe mannequin, her face
Hand-painted, and with nothing but “How
naice!”
To murmur when she means a thing’s good-o.
My oath, she’s not the mum I used to know!
And dad! He’s gone and had his whiskers
cut,
And dyed to hide the stains of nicotine.
He’s chased us to the boundary-rider’s hut
To sleep, and says us kids must not be seen
By either of the guests. And yet we’re
clean—
We wash our necks and hands! And, strike
me fat,
What guests could be expecting more than
that?
Aunt Jane, who drove her old man to the
war,
Has asked herself to stay with us a while
(No wonder Uncle Ben came back no more).
She wears an artificial sort of smile
And tails the guests all day. She walked a
mile
To fetch the pommy’s hanky he’d let drop
When dad was showing him the lucerne crop.
She rows for hours with Sarah and with
Dave,
And mags about a tiling called etiquette.
The guests can hear it all, but they behave
As if they didn’t notice. But I bet
That in their hearts they’ve got. the old daine
set.
Dan caught the tabby winking at her bloke
The other day, as if they had some joke.
A VERY DIFFERENT SITUATION.
MABELLE : “Billy’s a bit of a rollinc stone, I’m afraid.”
DORA: “On the contrary, my dearest, he is hard and fast on the rocks.”
And Sarah's just as bad. She puts on airs
On Sundays when the neighbors pay a call.
The more they glare the haughtier she stares
And talks about “Our guests’ baronial hall.”
I wonder what the guests think of it all.
I guess they’d rather wander arm-in-arm
Around the place to see life on a farm.
And I would show them round if I was let.
There’s heaps to see. The creek where Bill
was drowned;
The hollow log where Jessie used to get
To have her pups; the burrow Jimmie found
Where bunyips, teacher said, lived under-
ground ;
The blue-eyed steer; and all the plovers'
nests
Out in the stubble I could show the guests.
But ev’ry time I go up near the house
To pipe the pommy I get chased away.
Dave growls at me, and Mum begins to
rouse.
They won’t heed anything I have to say.
Once, when the pommy asked if I could
stay,
Mum looked at him and at his bride, quite
hurt,
And then at me- just like if I was dirt.
You'd think the guests was sheep with
pedigrees
To see the way they're herded at our place,
And all our neighbors dingoes, out to seize
And eat them, wool and all. When Mrs.
Mace
Topped in she had the door slammed in her
face.
She’d driven fifteen miles, and she was sore,
And wedged her foot within the closing door.
’Twas Sarah who had answered to the knock.
“You haven’t been invited here,” she spat,
Her eyes fixed hard on Mrs. Mace’s frock.
“I’m here,” snapped Mrs. Mace, “and you’re
a cat.”
And then the door shut to, and that was
that.
And Mrs. Mace departed furious.
I wonder what she thinks —and says—of us.
I wonder, too, what would our grown-ups
say
Did they but know that Susie, me, and
Tom,
When bringing in the cows the other day
Below the ridge ran bang into the pom.
He stopped and asked where we was coming
from
And said how pleased he was to have a
chat.
I wonder what Aunt Jane would say to that.
The skirt was with him, and I heard her
say
(I'm puzzled just a bit about it yet)
How she would Tike to meet folk ev'ry day,
But how she simply hated to be met —
How lovely it would be just to be let
Meet real people ev’rywhere she went.
The pom. just grinned. I wonder what she
meant.
N.s.w.
ERASTUS JORE-BOWEN.


“Julian”: When we were attend-
ing school on the Richmond River
we often hunted through the geo-
graphy books to find the name of
a place with more “o’s” than Woo-
roowoolgen, a local cattle-station.
We thought we had reached the
limit with Woolloomooloo and Coo-
loongoolook, but a few years later
T came across a cattle-station on
the Dawson River (Q.) that beat
them by two. It was Coomooboo-
looroo.
“F.S.”: A grazier near Bal-
ranald (N.S.W.) got a duck-bone
embedded in his throat the other
Saturday night. The task of re-
moving it was beyond the appli-
ances of the local medico and Mel-
bourne was telephoned on Sunday.
An aeroplane with a Collins-street
specialist on board left Essendon
’drome at 2 p.m., an operation was
performed, and by the evening the
patient was in a Melbourne
hospital, waiting for further treat-
ment. The aeroplane’s Sabbath-
breaking wasn’t over, however.
Pausing only to take a draught of
oil, it set out for Cowra, 223 miles
west of Sydney, with another Mel-
bourne specialist, whose services
were urgently required by a sick
mother.
* * *
“Lao-dah” : Even the traffic cops
at the world’s busiest intersection
are not immune from constabulary
duties of the usual sort. On a
recent evening, at the peak hour
before the theatres begin their
operations, the entire squad of
police at the Flinders-street-
Swanston-street crossing was
absent, having departed in pursuit
of a crook, or something. For a
quarter of an hour I watched the
traffic performing the customary
chain dance, and doing it without
a hitch, too. It was a fine example
of the commonsense and tolerance
of the average Australian crowd.
On the other hand, I have seen some
wonderful tangles caused by a
youthful traffic cop who had lost
his head.
“lan C." : No Catholic parish in
Greater Melbourne is more generous
handed than Haw-Hawthorn; but
the other Sunday the outspoken
Father Hearn (one of the best-
liked of Big Scrap padres) was
moved to remonstrate with those
who dropped spurious coins, but-
tons, and other rubbish into the
cushioned bags attached to long-
sticks which the church uses in
place of old-time plates. “Don’t
try to save your faces that way,”
advised his riv’rince, “but sit back
and give nothing, knowing that
you'll have company. Giving is
voluntary, and what’s the good of
trying to cheat the Unseen when
you can’t?”
“Bill O’Costs”: It irritates a
lawyer to hear well-understood tech
nical terms mishandled. To speak
of unwritten defamation as
libel, as so many laymen do, is an
age-old misuse of language. A
newer instance concerns the Latin
word "alibi,” meaning “elsewhere,”
and used in criminal terminology
for the defence of being in another
place at the essential time. The
Yanks have corrupted it to signify
any sort of defence, explanation or
excuse. Thus a man arriving with
a black eye offers his “alibi” that he
got it chopping wood. It may be
only vernacular American as yet,
but it has got into the newspapers
and fiction, and hence is probably
beyond eradication.
* * »
X > teS f ta l! y ,, the
in' the Svdnei ty f 'i',' ll tliat
(1280 bedroom's available fm- *. ie - re a J®
nubs The lareest"of these P ot ger ‘ s n - x
Ol bedrooms the nil 18 ? as
(Xrs lXe*lB6 each t - W0
Board has at last found nut tf kjl censmg
hotel keepers 'are
accommodation at all times awards of the
Arbitration Court make the thin°- difficult
For a solution it sn«-o- P «to tw uUncult.
a.e
policeman, “in order that the necessarv w-il
remedy mav be applied”- which is all vorv
well, though you might ’get pretty colcMn
winter waiting for the law* to luck voifunder
the blankets. According to wliat the board
could ascertain, the highest tariff per dav
charged in Sydney taverns is 2.1 s (that’s
without tips; with tips it may amount to
£2u) and the lowest six shillings. Finally,
it is gratifying to learn that Mobile hotels
"are not perfect anywhere, and never will
be, those in N.S.VV. compare favorably with
hotels in any of the other States of Aus-
t.ralia” ; and if the board can get the men
who spend their lives on the roads to O.lv.
that, it will have a good deal of luck. Any-
way, this can be said : N. S. Wales country
pubs, outside the golfing areas, haven’t im-
proved during the last i 0 years to anything
like the same degree as those of either Vic-
toria or youth A us.
“Lever de Rideau”: Melbourne has been
mildly amused lately over an argument be-
tween an artist and a critic. The artist
was Colin Oolahan, the young Australian
who lias just returned from Paris, and the
critic was J. S. MacDonald, who gained
dazzling prestige amongst the unsophisticated
for his part in the libel action the dapper
little Englishman Falcke brought against
the Herald for saying his Old Masters
weren’t. MacDonald, who has lately acquired
a somewhat pontifical manner, censured
Colahan for painting as he did and suggested
better ways of doing it. Colahan took the
unusual course of contradicting him in his
own paper. Miss A. M. E. Bale, who had
just recently been cautioned by MacDonald
for _ not adopting in her latest show the
advice he had supplied her gratis during her
previous exhibition, assuaged her smart by
“AS MUCH PRIVACY AS A GOLDFISH.”-A ROYAL
NIGHTMARE.
“The Duke and Duchess were enabled to go for a walk alone to-day, for the first time since they landed.”
Queensland Press item.
takin S U P the cudgels for Colalian. Other
; ' rtlsts and critics joining in. melancholy
differences of opinion amongst the experts
were revealed, some describing pictures as
transcendently beautiful which others found
superlatively ugly. The net result was that
Oolahan s show M T as largely attended by the
b «! tbe I**™* weren’t' sold,
: i aiugk ,°f them had received high
1 ?. n0r 2 a P d laudation in Europe. It is a
pity, I think, that art standards aren’t fixed
life O"' 8 - Hh pfe-
!;} ues kls offspring, the artist could
* b vi? bring an action for libel against the
u- ltlC J h ° said hls water ?°wed uphill or
5® T™ F° S F °’/ Thu ?
i-n j fe \ made I PSS dull a, ' d tlie crowd,
} V Vi doesn t care tuppence about theories
i 10 7 e . s a f ow - would begin to take an
boxing* “ Comparable to lts mtcrest m
«
( ~
‘lvelby : Speaking of the difficulty some
People find in cutting free from pidgin
English (B. 7/4/’27), I know an aristo-
cratic lady who has not long arrived in
Sydney from Malaya. The other day she
was travelling to Hose Bay in a taxi, and
the driver was stepping on the gas too fast
for her taste. In an icy voice of authority,
she called out, “Pigge plan-plan, sais.” The
“sais” stopped the car there and then and
requested her to disembark, at the same time
time murmuring something to the effect that
the sooner she remembered she wasn't talk-
ing to an adjective nigger, the better it
would be for everyone.
* * * *
“Bouragi”: I notice there is a movement
afoot in Papua to start a kapok plantation.
1 wish the promoters luck, but the statement
that expert advice is being sought from
Colombo gives me an excuse for butting in.
I have had some Papuan experience of kapok-
trees, some misguided ass having planted a
grove of them at Tamata station, in the Upper
Mamba, in the very beginnings of the place.
When the pods opened, which they did when
the s.-e. trades were blowing like? saxo-
phonists, the white, fluffy down took entire
command. I’ve seen the R.M., an invariably
good-tempered cove except when he was sober,
come over the bridge from the station to
Billy Hancock’s store looking like the
betrayed heroine in a Bland Holt snowstorm
melodrama, though his “lines’’ hardly fitted
the part. The stuff would fill the air for
days, and we all ate, drank and breathed it.
Finally somebody hit on the bright idea of
climbing the trees and cutting off the pods
before they opened. He unfolded his scheme
at a poker party early one morning, and we
were so infected with his enthusiasm that
we went out to watch a demonstration in
the dark. The experimentalist forgot, un-
happily, that, after 10 feet or so from the
ground, the kapok-tree grows curved spines
much the size and shape of a tiger’s claw- —
with the curve upwards. Mercifully, lie fell
out of his trousers in the subsequent struggle,
or he might have been gibbetted there yet.
“Hamer”: A pedagogue who recently
asked his scholars to supply essays on “My
Ilefo,” impressing upon them that he wanted
their own ideas and that they could write
just what they liked, has discovered that a
prophet is by no means without honor in
his own country. Heroes to the number of
7$ were scheduled, Lord Nelson leading with
12 supporters ; but high up on the list, along
with Wellington and Napoleon, were Ross
Smith, Jacka, V.C., Bass. Blaxland, Went-
worth, and "An Anzac,” Macquarie, Parkes
and Governor Bourke. “Boy’’ Charlton and
Victor Trumpet chased home the field.
"Sucre”: Australians have ceased to b*
the greatest meat-eaters in the world. The
Argentine yearly consumption is 2811 b. per
head against 2621 b. in the Commonwealth.
Maori land devours 2121 b., Canada 165 an 1
Britain 124.
"Zig-zag : A matter of some interest to
pedestrians has recently been discussed bv
the British Medical Association. It was
the nature of a test; which would satisfac-
torily determine when a motor-driver was
drunk. The one that found most favor was
determining the "errors of co-ordination and
orientation.” These errors range from a
tendency to say the same things over and
over again, which would indict most wives
and politicians, to incriminating ways of
picking up a coin from the floor or mere
hiccuping. The flaw in this string of tests,
as one embittered medico pointed out, is
that some of them could not In-
passed satisfactorily by a prohibi-
tion advocate, while many men
could go through them as effectively
when drunk as in their periods of
sobriety. _ The trouble is that no
human being, be he motorist or mere
mortal, reacts to alcohol in quitn
the same manner as his fellows.
* * *
“Feng-Sliui”: No mention was
made of anv British subjects be-
ing rescued when a unit of the
B.N. performed the long-overdue
operation of demolishing the pirate
depot at Bias Bay. on the South
China coast. Yet British subjects,
some of them white, have dis-
appeared from time to time when
the Bias Bay buccaneers have risen
from among the passengers and
seized a foreign ship. One such
was H. W. Lapsley, a colleague of
mine of former days in Shanghai.
He was on his way to spend his
furlough in Australia when the
usual rush of bogus steerage pas-
sengers captured the bridge of the
Sunning. As he spoke Chinese he
was made to act as interpreter while
the British officers, with revolvers
at their heads, steered the vessel for
Bias Bay. Then followed an epic
of the mercantile marine. The
officers recaptured the bridge by a
surprise attack and held it for four
hours against 40 well-armed desper-
adoes. Only a dozen of the yellow
“gentlemen of fortune” got away
when a British warship hove in
sight, but whether Lapsley was
taken with them to serve as a slave
at Bias Bay has never transpired.
Perhaps he suffered a more merci-
ful fate.
* * *
■ John Drummer”: The struggle
for a crust amongst the poor publi-
cans of Sydney seems to grow more
difficult as time moves forward, or
backward, or whichever way the
darned thing goes. Some years
back the hotels outbid each other
for custom with elaborate and ex-
pensive counter-lunches. This com-
petition grew so extreme that at
last the liquor retailers came to
a decision to abolish the free feed;
but the agreement wasn't kept for
long, and the sandwiches and the
sausages, the pies and the peas, the
curries and the condiments re-
appeared at 11 a.m., and were re-
plenished through the lunch hour.
Then further inducement was given
to the public to wet its whistle. At
live o'clock in the evening another
meal was placed on the bar
counters, and early in the morning,
at some places around the markets,
a hungry man could make a hearty
breakfast for the price of a glass of
ale. The latest attraction is a sort
of afternoon tea, without the. tea.
On dainty plates are alluringly
spread thinly-cut bread and butter,
cream-clieese and other afternoon-
tea sandwiches. You order your
tipple and politely toy with the
confectionery. There used to be an
old song which was very popular in
its day: “She is the Girl Who
Was Given Away with a Half a
Pound of Tea!” If the liquor-
traders’ competition becomes much
fiercer, maybe they’ll be giving away
a girl with half a pint of beer.
the point of view.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
"Soon Winter will be here,” said one, and
smiled.
Remembering fond companionships, be-
guiled
By cheery vision of a fire-lit room,
Dear, shabby, book-lined, brave against Ihe
gloom
Of drenching rains without; each stout old
chair
A tried companion. With love to share
The chosen silence or the happy jest.
"Winter.” she breathed, and smiled: "Ah,
Winter’s best!”
“Winter!” sighed one who shivered through
and through
And faded finery closer round her drew.
No warm hearth-haven did her mind unfold,
yhe saw no shelter from the rain and cold
But dimly-lighted doorways; furtive feet
Sliding and sinister; the draggled street
Too drenched to yield its harvest; soiled
shoes burst.
“Winter’s just Hell” she spat, and, crouch-
ing, cursed.
S.A.
M. R. C.
THE MAMMOTH SHEEP.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The sheep is not, to say the least
Of it, an educated beast,
And lately people criticise
The creature for its lack ot size.
A gland has been discovered now
To make it larger than the cow.
What mighty shearers we shall need
To clip the wool of such a breed!
’Tis very certain they will ask
Increase of wages for the task,
And curses will be loud and deep
From farmers dipping skittish sheep,
A chop is always useful when
Food is required by single men
In rooms, with use of kitchen op.. _
But who would hail the giant chop i
Already every field is full
Of terrors caused by cow and bull,
But even timid people pass,
Ui i rattled, sheep consuming grass.
They do not in alarm retreat
Or tremble at the creature’s bleat.
But super-sheep will soon provide
Fresh perils in the countryside.
1 do not like these glands at all.
I think the sheep far safer small.
MAORILAND.
ELEANOR PHABAZYN.


CIGARETTES
OVAL HEAVYWEIGHT.
-- H
• m ■ ■■■ ■:
■
m r;:!
J
'<s&&&■
'
m
m
:
Wmmii
m
—vj
m
W
■ v
i tm
i
I
-
mm
7.
£
m
L


b
//
ALWAYS ORDER
Schweppes’
Dry Ginger Ale
the Only Original.
REFUSE SUBSTITUTES
AND IMITATIONS.
Manufactured only by
Schweppes, Limited.
Usher’s Hotel Ltd
Castlereagh Street, Sydney.
A first-class new and up-to-date
modern hotel.
Running hot and cold water in all bid-
rooms* and many have Bath de Luxe.
Automatic bedside telephones.
English and French Cuisine.
New Marble Bar, spacious and airy.
For perfection of service, comfort
and cleanliness, Usher’s Ltd. is un-
equalled.
Inclusive Terms, apply
MANAGER.
Che Equitable Life
Jlssce.
e> *
Coy.
Australasia Ctd.
Head Office:
Parbury House, Eagle Street, Brisbane
Branches:
N.S.W.: VICTORIA:
84 Pitt St., Sydney. 360 Collins St., MeH>
Transacts Probate, Life Endowment, Com-
bined Benefits (All Sickness) Assurance.
(Vacancies for Producers with good records.)
FREDK. LEVY, Mg. Director.
ROMANCE.
PIERROT: “Oh, my darling, suppose we had never met?”
Pierrette (rather bored): “Jolly good idea! Let’s suppose we
haven’t.”
“Lao-dah” : The person who nailed a wallet
to the roadway outside Spencer-street sta-
tion, Melbourne, on April Fool's Day scored
a great success. Scores of hurrying people
stopped and tried to pick it up, and motorists
even got out of their cars to retrieve the
prize, while a crowd of several hundreds
stood around and grinned delightedly. Of
course, a small boy was credited with the
trick, as tradition orders. But according to
my daughter the observance of April Fool’s
Day is as obsolete in juvenile circles as
Guy Fawkes’s anniversary.
**• * *
“C.Q.”: Seven years ago a repatriated
Digger applied to the Federal Public Service
authorities in Melbourne for a job and
received a reply that his request would
receive attention. Hearing nothing more
about it, he looked round for himself, found
an opening and is now in a responsible posi-
tion. The other day he received a notifica-
tion that, in answer to his seven-year-old
request, there w r as a job waiting at Canberra.
But a cautious P.S. warned him that
he must not consider the suggestion as a
definite offer!
* * * *
“Ivwinana”: The Germans utilised one
very simple cypher at the time the Wolf
was communicating with Rabaul (new
Britain) by radio. A persevering wireless
operator attached to one of the Australian
radio stations finally decoded it. The method
was simply to reverse the dots and dashes
of the Morse code.
* * * *
“Shiv.”: Some of the serious-minded in
Auckland went along the other night to hear
a lecture by a visiting Yankee professor, one
Bailey Willis, ex-
pecting to be slight-
ly bored. But they
reckoned without
their Yank, -who
appears to be a
humorist as well as
a s e i s mologist.
After telling them
about all the awful
earthquakes that
ever happened, lie
fixed them with a
glittering eye and
said that by all the
signs and portents
he could discover
the Shaky Islands
were due for an-
other big upheaval
like that of 1855.
But he didn’t com-
mit himself to any
particular date,
contenting himself
with enunciating
the good solid pro-
position that “the
further you are
from your last
earthquake the
nearer you are to your next one.”
* * * *
“Uramao”: A statement made in The
Bulletin that the Norwegian whaler N. T.
Nilsen Alsonso could not have been handled
with safety at any other wharf in Australia
or Maoriland except Queen’s Pier, Hobart,
and two wharves in Sydney is challenged
by Wellington’s harbormaster. When the
big whaler berthed at Hobart she was draw-
ing 32ft. 6in. forward and 34ft. 3in. aft,
giving a mean draft of 33ft. 3in. Several
wharves at Wellington could have taken her
easily. Pipitea wharf ranges from 46ft. at
the outer end to 36ft, at the inner; King’s
wharf, 41ft. to 34ft. and 38ft. to 34ft., and
at Glasgow wharf the depths are 37ft. to
34ft. and 34ft. to 33ft. On one occasion
the Corinthia left drawing 33ft. 6in. aft,
and at another time the Armagh drew 33ft.
Tin.
* * * *
“E.IL”: In the recent local-option poll in
South Australia the ballot-papers had three
squares on them.
The top one stood
for reduction of
licenses, the middle
one for no altera-
tion, and the bot-
tom space for in-
crease of licenses.
A good deal of ad-
vertising was done
by the Trade and
the Prohibition
people, the latter
exhorting the elec-
tors to “Vote in
the top square for
Reduction.” On the
evening of polling-
day our local Bung
remarked to one of
his most reliable
customers, “Well,
Dan, I suppose you
voted in the middle
square?” “Not me,”
was the reply de-
livered in perfect
good faith. “I voted
in the top square
for a reduction.
I'm dead tired of paying tenpence for a
whisky.”
* * * *
The law is sometimes very savage. A
young chap at Leeton (N.S.W.) took a
bunch of grapes when he thought nobody
was looking, intending them, so he said, as
a present for his sweetheart. A cold-hearted
edition of Judge Jeffreys was the next thing
he met after the constable that arrested
him, and he was sent to gaol for a month.
But dry the starting tear. The Griffith
branch of the A.L.P. said a word to McKell
about it, and the prison gates yawned and
yielded up their victim.
“Julian”: I had my first jag at the tender
age of five. Is that a record? It was on the
Hunter River (N.S.W.), where my parents
had a vineyard. Our old German wine-
maker was showing some children through
A MATTER OF INTEREST.
“He reckons money talks.”
“It’s a pity it wouldn't sometimes tell how
it was made.”
the cellar and invited them to sample the
vintage, fresh unfermented juice. Tie care-
lessly omitted me from the shout, so when
lie was looking the other way I turned a tap
and helped myself to a glass of matured wine.
Nobody noticed anything wrong till I became
belligerent and wanted to take charge of the
place, when I was promptly carried to bed.
I was over 40 when I had my second.
“Flagwagger”: Very rarely could the cen-
sorship of war letters be turned to account
by the writer, but T managed
it once. Though I was a
company signaller when my
unit arrived at Anzac in
September, 1915, I had to
carry out the duties of an
ordinarv infantryman, for
the H.Q. sigs. did all the com-
munication work. The fatigue
work was heavy, so I in-
cluded the following in a
home letter“ Since arriving
here I have had to carry out
the job of a common foot-
slogger, although, as you
know, thanks to cadet train-
ing. I was an excellent sig-
naller when I enlisted, and
training at Broadmeadows
and Egypt has increased my
efficiency. In the lull after
last month’s heavy fighting
one would expect that com-
pany-signallers would be
given as much experience as
possible; for, when the hard
fighting is renewed, the H.Q.
signallers will suffer casual-
ties, and we company-signal-
lers, called on to replace
them, will be out of prac-
tice.” Three days later the
O.C. told us four company
flagwaggers to report to the
sig.-officer, and thereafter we.
assisted the H.Q.-ites.
“L’Fou”: The danger that women risk
in having their hair cut short and frequently
is not baldness (B. 7/4/’27) but the growth
of unwanted hair upon the face. A distin-
guished scientist has already expressed the
view that constant hair-cutting will lead to
—the horror of it! —incipient beards and
moustaches. In support, he instances certain
tribes which, while they remain long-haired,
are smooth-faced. In villages, however, where
the fashion of hair clipping has arrived whis-
kers make their appearance. The pig-tailed
Chinaman is an excellent instance of the
fact that abundant hair on the head, even
in the male of the species, means scantiness
of it upon the face.
* * * *
“C.Q.”: The request of the Heidelberg
(Yic.) Shire Council for permission to
change the name of the local 60th battalion
from the Jika Jika regiment to the lleidcT
berg regiment recalls that during the war
this picturesque suburb started on a cam-
paign to eliminate everything German-
sounding. The names of several streets were
altered, the somewhat risky device of favor-
ing other continental nations, then our
allies, being followed. When an abo. name
was suggested for the whole township, how-
ever, unexpected opposition developed,
tradesmen pointing out that the expense
to them would be considerable. In the
beginning a German settler, surveying the
district from the top of what is now Eagle-
mont Hill, baptised it Heidelberg because it
reminded him of his home town.
* * * *
“Dum Spiro”: The latest instruction
manual issued to the Royal Air Force by
the Air Ministry contains one instruction
which at first glance would seem more appro-
priate in a Black Bottom manual. “Chew
Gum and Click Your Ears” the pilots are
advised, and the reason follows. It appears
that flying at high altitudes causes a differ-
ent pressure on the outer and inner ear-
drums, and constant swallowing is necessary
to equalise it. Chewing gum helps to keep
the muscles of the head active in this way.
Clicking the ears is to minimise temporary
deafness, pain and other ailments caused by
the same unequal pressure. The clicking
is done by pinching the nostrils and breath-
ing outwards.
* * * *
“Gan”: In a Melbourne industrial suburb
I came on such street names as “Gold,”
“Westgarth,” “Eureka,” “Ballarat” and
“Hotham,” that take us straight back to
the days of the diggings. F'ew people pay
much attention to our early history, but how
much more stimulating are these names
with real associations than the meaning-
less labels that figure in most of
our suburbs! In old cities like London
and Paris, a whole pageant of history can be
evoked by the names of streets and by-
ways. Though our history is brief, it has
its own interest; it is pleasant on a walk
to come on some name that recalls a pictur-
esque figure or a memorable episode.
* * * •
“Australis”: The display of multitu-
dinous foreign flags by shopkeepers and
others when their premises are being deco-
rated is a quaint feature of these celebra-
tions. The theatres are the worst offenders.
At one Sydney house when the Yorks were
here I noticed 48 flags displayed _ in the
dome, amongst them only 16 British and
Australian flags ; and outside the theatre there
was an extraordinarily large Stars and Stripes.
No other country in the world reciprocates
tliis sort of courtesy, if it is to be called
such, as far as'■my experience goes. Travel-
ling through TJ.S.A. immediately after the
•war, only three Union Jacks could I find in
HO W DOES IT AFFECT YOU?
“But does whisky really make you see double ?”
“Well, I’m not so sure about that; hut it does make me
feel single.”
New York, and they were flying over the
British Consulate and on White Star and
Cunard offices. Strain my eyes as I might,
not one Australian flag could I discern any-
where in Uncle Sam’s country.
* * * *
“Lex”: Before parting with an ancient
writing-desk, it is wise to convince yourself
that there are no hidden receptacles in it.
A Melbourne second-hand dealer recently
took a number of gold foreign coins to a
Collins-street bank and asked for a friendly
opinion whether they were genuine. One
of them was a Spanish moidore, dated 1772.
Questioned as to how he came by them he
explained that he had an old secretaire
which, being unable to sell, he had broken
up for the sake of the mountings. Con-
cealed beneath the false bottom of an ink-
well he had cope upon the parcel of coins.
Originally he paid 10s. for the desk; a curio
dealer has since offered him £5O for his
treasure trove.
THE PARRITCH.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“The Duchess of York, like all good Scotswomen, is
fond of ‘burgoo’ [porridge].” —Sydney daily.
She's as dainty a duchess as ever was known,
With a ravishing smile that’s supremely her
own;
She’s a radiant vision wherever she goes
From the top of her toque to the tips of
her toes.
In her progress triumphal there won’t be a
check
From up in the Orkneys to down in the
Speck.
She’s come, seen and conquered—or, rather,
I mean
She conquered as soon as she came to be
seen.
And, top of it all, how it warms one to read.
If you happen to come from the north of
the Tweed,
That the lady whom all so admiringly view
Is frankly and wholesomely fond of burgoo,
As fond of burgoo
As I am or you,
Or Bruce was, or Wallace, or Roderick Dhu.
“The food,” said Sam Johnson —sour Saxon,
ye ken—
"ln England of horses, in Scotland of men.”
But I like to believe it was just as a slap
In the eye for .1. Boswell, a wearisome chap
Who always was getting liis principal’s goat
That the Great Lexicographer sneered at the
oat.
And, whether or not, no such heresy finds
A lodgment in patriot Gaelic minds,
Not even when omelets are being explored
At breakfast, or kidneys smoke hot on the
board.
So, whatever the lords and the ladies may do.
The Duchess (God bless her!) begins with
burgoo.
She’s right-down true blue,
Good Scot through and through,
As keen as Rob Roy on a plate of burgoo.
Would a haggis, one wonders, intrigue her
and please
Like a whiff of the heather that grows by
the Tees?
Would a bannock entrance her? Nay, told
we are not
And fierce though the light on a throne
that is shot
(Or a near-one) there isn’t as much as a
gleam
If she takes it with salt or with sugar and
Cl'CuUl.
And what does it matter? In figure and face
She’s a bundle of charm and a packet of
grace.
She’s the sort of princess, in the matter of
looks,.
That we featured, when young, from the
fairy-tale books.
She’s a sunbeam incarnate, a pleasure to
watch,
And she’s winsomely, welcomely, patently
Scotch
As ever a lass Scott or Stevenson drew,
Maclaren or Galt, in her love for burgoo.
Ave! Salve! Hurroo!
All happiness to
The Duchess who’s never gone back on bur-
goo !
N.S.W.
T. THE R.


Ř
Buying “Willard” is getting more
for your money every time—every
battery. A Willard Battery with
Threaded Rubber Insulation
comes CHARGED Bone Dry. It
stays brand new until it is pre-
pared for your use.
that's
Quality
STORAGE
BATTERY


“ Metro vick” Products Include
The Marie of
Efficiency
TURBO-ALTERNATORS
ROTARY CONVERTERS
AUTOMATIC SUB-STATIONS
SUPERVISORY CONTROL
TRACTION APPARATUS
GENERATORS, A.C. AND D.C.
INDUSTRIAL MOTORS
CONTROL GEAR
TRANSFORMERS
SWITCHGEAR, A.C. AND D.C.
INSTRUMENTS
PERMIT US TO QUOTE FOR YOUR REQUIREMENTS.
MELBOURNE,
SYDNEY,
ADELAIDE.
MSPSM
BRISBANE
AND
WELLINGTON, N.Z.
NOBEL-GLASGOW EXPLOSIVES.
The Standard of Quality throughout the Empire.
Mo no be I
Samsonite
Gelatine Dynamite
Gelignite
Blasting Gelatine
Dynamite
Safety Fuse
Detonators
Cartridges
R
o
Write
to
Desk B.
MARTIN DITCHER’S TRIUMPH.
Mr. H. L. Tooth, Murami Irrigation Settlement, on
the Murrumbidgee. writes:— ~j
“The ten acres of rice field yielded '
bushels. I consider the use of the Ma in
reduced the cost of ditching and check an
by 50 per cent.” Too th's
The photograph shows a section ot •
fine field which was recently described ’!? are
cultural Gazette. Many other rice
now using the Martin Ditcher.
CHALLIS HOUSE,
MARTIN PLACE. SYDNEx.
Campbell’s Buildings. Creek Street, Br s
D)<) Little Collins Street, Melbourne
T. T. Buildings, Light Square, Ademi g]g
Qneen Street, Perth.
The WILD CAT
COLUMN
The Australian Mutual Provident
Society :
Ordinary Department.
Written
Oft', or
Provided
Against Added
Total Ex- Depre- to
Income. Claims, penses. ciation. Funds.
Dec., £ £ £ £ £
1900.. 2,364,216 1,178,107 213,268 17,737 955,104
1905.. 2,794,231 1,642,341 245,242 38,701 ) Rrr 947
Aid to Industrial Department 12,000 j
1910.. 3,492,093 1,841,184 291,775 36,366 1,322.771
1915.. 4,353,213 2,578,973 369,172 30,473 1,374.590
1916.. 4,632,473 2,814,896 408,350 42,563 1,366,664
1917.. 4,863,710 3,436,591 434,986 37,566 954,567
1918.. 5,078,819 3,376,417 433,514 43,096 1,225,792
1919.. 5,191,387 3,097,941 477,688 60,471 1,555,287
1920.. 5,634,997 2.688,538 555,863 90,112 2,300.484
1921.. 5,882.755 2,816,764 595,440116,191 2,354,360
1922.. 6,225,479 3,210,194 626,422 235,525 2,153,338
1923.. 6,579,192 3,450,862 665,855 291,286 2,171,189
1924.. 7,066,013 3,475,869 703,097 83,251 2,803,795
1925.. 7,478,871 3,623,206 727,206112,880 3,015,579
1926.. 7,911,325 3,808,764 748,221125.144 3,229,196
Last year saw fresh records notched in every
direction, and £3,229,19(7 was added to funds.
Total income in the Ordinary department
was within striking distance of eight millions,
and that will be left well behind when the
time comes to write in the figures for 1927.,
The A.M.P. is conservative in its finances;
but that there is no lack of energy in its pur-
suit of business is disclosed by the rapid
growth of income over the past 10 years. In
1917 income in the Ordinary branch was less
than five millions. Last year it was more
than three millions greater. The society
writes most of its business in Australia, but
it picks up a few crumbs in other parts of
the world, chiefly in England. Its insurance
contracts are now placed as follows: —
Policies. Assurances.
N. S. Wales 259,895 £50,120,034
Victoria .. . . .. 246,630 39,921,636
Maoriland .. .. .. 132,814 33,877,613
Queensland .. .. .. 75,645 17,373,821
S. Australia . . .. . . 66,427 14,211,879
Westralia .. .. .. 43,840 10,407,398
Tasmania . . . . . . 18,503 4,166,321
England, etc. . . . . 12,557 7,525,560
Ordinary and Industrial figures are there
combined. New policies written during the
12 months were greater by £430,000-odd than
in the previous year. Another view of the
progress can be obtained by comparing last
year’s writings with those assurances which
dropped out through death, maturity, surren-
der, forfeiture and other causes
12 months to Annual
Dec., 1926 . . Policies. Assurances. Premiums.
New business . . 84.313 £17,765,447 £640,780
Discontinued . . 46,593 7,380,168 289,558
Increases . . 37,720 £10,385,279 £351,222
It must be remembered, of course, that £lOO
to-day is less than £lOO of pre-war days:
and, as this Column has pointed out more
than once, that factor plays its part in the
big figures which are being written by insur-
ance offices. Where £lOO of cover was
adequate in 1914, to-day twice as much is
worth but little more. A recognition of that
fact by insurers is not only sending up totals,
but helps in reducing the expense rates.
Once more the office was able to say a few
bright words on the subject of bonuses. The
amount available for holders of participating
policies in the Ordinary department was
£2,608,323 —£265,203 more than was divided
in the previous year. The announcement
was made in these terms
This is the largest sum ever distributed by the
society in cash bonuses for a single year, and
represents 57.7 p.c. of the premiums received during
the year on participating policies.
It is a splendid figure, and policy-holders are
wise enough to take out most of it in addi-
tional insurance. These cash bonuses will
give reversionary additions of £4,620,000. an
increase of £470,000 over the record for 1925.
Last year’s percentage stands above all others
in the history of the society:—
1888-1893.. 40.3 p.c. 1918.. .. 32.6 p.c.
1893-1898.. 34.1 „ 1919.. .. 38.0 ~
1898-1903.. 34.8 „ 1920.. .. 38.8 ~
1903-1908.. 36.0 „ 1921.. .. 42.4 „
1908-1913.. 38.2 „ 1922.. ... 47.3 „
1914 .. 39.2 „ 1923.. .. 50.9 „
1915 .. 30.8 „ 1924.. .. 52.9 ~
1916 .. 30.1 „ 1925.. .. 54.5 „
1917 .. 18.6 ~ 1926.. .. 57.7 ~
Obviously the premium rates charged by the
A.M.P. —and by other Life offices of stand-
ing—are vastly in excess of the necessities.
Premiums are based on an artificially high
death-rate (the A.M.P.’s death claims last
year were only 51 p.c. of the expectation) ;
estimated earning power of funds is much
below actual figures; loading for expenses is
excessive; and apparently a host of remote
contingencies are allowed for. But all the
established offices adhere to them, and like-
lihood of change is small. Certainly the
pioneer in a movement to bring rates more
on a par with the exact or approximate neces-
sities would have a rough experience. There
is one evil in this matter, and that is the fact
that certain offices are enabled to gather in
money and spend wastefully, whereas if rates
were somewhat nearer a level within which
the solid offices could operate comfortably,
most of the wasteful cos. would have to alter
their mode of living or pass out. However,
insurers have been educated to like fat
bonuses. And for the smaller policy-holder
it is by way of being a form of compulsory
banking. The one great objection is that, the
premium required to produce a given sum
being excessive, there fire a great many sur-
renders and forfeitures; and this has been
about the worst feature of Australian insur-
ance during the last few years. Further, the
bonuses ought to produce additional insur-
ance at once. The insurer pays for it and he
shouldn’t have to wait for it.
Expenses take some holding in these days,
but the A.M.P. appears to have a firm grip
on what is within its control. On the prin-
ciple that a reasonable charge for renewals
is 7 p.c., the balance being chargeable
against new business, the rates are as shown
in the last column of this table:—
Renewal New Ex- New Busi-
Premiums. Premiums. penses. ness Cost.
1877 .. £353,345 £39,951 £68,905 99.6 p.c
1887 .. 837,164 103,694 131,591 70.1 „
1897 .. 1,220,405 105,788 179,215 87.4 „
1910 .. 2,022,470 185,559 291,775 79.8 „
1915 .. 2,521,634 232,768 369,172 82.5 ..
1920 .. 3,153,682 334,682 555.863 99.9 ~
1921 . . 3,281,006 310,120 595,440 117.6 „
1922 .. 3,422.427 339,068 626,4 22 113.9 ~
1923 .. 3,562,316 387,063 665.855 107.4 „
1924 .. 3,783,274 465,030 703,097 94.3 ~
1925 . . 4.026,766 473,422 727,206 94.1
«5926 . . 4,245,046 469,259 748,221 96.1 ~
Income-tax was the only item to show a
noticeable increase. Compared with total
income, costs emerge covered with decora-
tions :
Expenses Compared with Total Income,
1905.. £8 15 6 p.c. | 1921.. £lO 2 5 p.c.
1910.. 8 7 1., 1922.. 10 1 3 „
1915.. 8 9 7 „ 1923.. 10 2 5 „
1917.. 8 18 10 „ 1924.. 9 19 0 „
1919. . 9 4 0 „ I 1925. . 9 14 6 „
1920. . 9 17 3 „ | 1926. . 9 9 1,,
That reduction was particularly good be-
cause it was the third in line.
Investments showed an improved return
and the increase played a big part in last
year’s surplus
Interest Realised on Average Funds.
1905.. £4 9 8 p.c. I 1922.. £5 8 9 p.c.
1910.. 4 9 8 „ I 1923.. 5 10 3 „
1914.. 4 12 10 „ | 1924.. 5 11 11 „
1917.. 4 19 4 „ I 1925.. 5 12 5 „
1920.. 5 4 10 „ f 1926.. 5 14 2 „
The low rate of expectancy —3 p.c.—-is
thrown into hold relief by the actual return.
But the conservative calculation represents
safety, and the insurer who disagrees with
that principle will not find himself in good
company.
Industrial business poured in :
Industrial Department.
Added to
Income. Claims. Expenses. Funds.
1915. . £313,303 £15,760 £94,016 £203,527
1916.. 362,133 18,826 107,855 235,452
1917.. 432,038 29,635 127,432 274,971
1918.. 503,360 35,140 145,262 322,958
1919.. 593.859 30,850 181,379 381,630
1920.. 705,525 67,386 217,869 420.270
1921.. 830,709 68,326 253.515 508,868
1922.. 967,988 107,579 276,749 583,660
1923.-1,118,109 138,902 299,250 f
Written off, £21,222 j
1924.. 1,245.064 181,918 331,094 f
Written off, £ll6B j <30,884
1925. . 1,397,888 227,059 362,824 1 IQI
Written off, £lO,Bll 3
1926.. 1,557,073 365,494 389,855 1 , a(!
Written off, £15,302 5 8
Heavy maturities —£296,040 as against
1925’s £168,792 —sent claims far beyond the
usual. Expenses, however, were satisfactory
at 25 p.c. For 1925 the rate was 25.9 p.c.;
for 1923, 26.8 p.c.; for 1921, 30.5 p.c. Actu-
ary Elliott found a surplus in this depart-
ment of £193 775, the whole of which was set
aside for distribution, providing reversionary
bonuses approximating £273,000.
The allocation of funds moved a larger
percentage into public securities —a good ten-
dency. In this case, where assets total
£65,055,956, big sums can be moved about
without making any particular impression.
Last year, for instance, premises increased
from £913,700 to £11,000,700, and yet the
increase represented only 0.1 p.c. of the total
funds:—
1905. 1915. 1920. 1925. 1.926.
p.c. p.c. p.c. p.c. p.c.
Loans on mortgage.. 43.5 36.7 22.9 23.4 23.0
Public securities .. 26.7 41.3 59.3 57.8 58.4
Premises .. .. 1.8 1.8 1.7 1.5 1.6
Loans on policies .. 20.5 16.3 13.2 14.0 14.0
Other assets .. .. 6.4 3.9 2.9 3.3 3.0
There is an investment reserve of £600,000:
it is known that the premises are valued
conservatively; and there is a blank on the
balance-sheet opposite furniture and fittings
for the whole of the society’s substantially-
equipped offices. The A.M.P. is now in its
79tli year. It has issued in all 1,562,412
policies aggregating insurances valued at
£318.000,000, of which there are in force
to-day 856,311 policies assuring £177.674,120.
* *. * *
Beatii. Sciiiess and Fei.stead. Ltd.,
softgoods warehousemen, Melbourne (the co.
started with a deficit of £56,187, represented
by goodwill, etc.) :
, Dividends. ,
Cum. Pref. Ordi- Towards De-
Jan., Profits. 64 p.c. naries. Reserves, firit.
1917.. 19,327 6500 74 p.c. = 5,250 7,577 27,810
1918.. 26.509 6500 8 „ „ 5,600 14,469 13,341
Reserves.
1919.. 48,003 6500 10 „ ~ 12,000 29,503 16,162
1920.. 60,072 6500 124,, ~ 25,250 28,322 44,484
1921.. 80,860 6500 124,, ~36,875 37,485 81,969
Taxation reserve taken in .. 39,000 120,969
Loss.
1922.. 111,628 6500 Nil 2,841
Deficit.
1923.. 45,620 6500 Nil 49,279
1924. . 108,096 3250* Nil 160,025
Capital written down, £110,625 .. 50,000
Assets written up, £20,050 .. 29,950
1925.. 24,929 Nil Nil 54,879
Profit.
1926.. 6,178 6500 Nil 55,201
London loss written off, £lO,OOO . . 65,201
Loss.
1927.. 58,175 Nil Nil 123,376
*Div. tor six months.
Reconstruction was the only way out. The
term began with a debit at P. and L. of
£5201, and to that had to be added a net
loss for the 12 months of £58,175. In addi-
tion, the board decided that goodwill
(£50,000) was such a definite absentee that
it should be swept aside. Inasmuch as this
Column had never taken goodwill into
account the movement docs not appear in
the introductory table. To cap the lot, a
matter of £lO,OOO which appeared in the
London accounts as a capital asset was not
traceable. The suspicions about it at the
previous balance were confirmed. Altogether
that hunch of trouble makes a total of
£123.370. The directors submitted pro-
posals to shareholders at the annual meeting
which they consider will clean up the mess
and give the co. a new lease of life. Briefly,
the proposals are: (a) Write down the
ordinary shares by 7s. 6d. a share; (b)
write off the accumulated div. on the pref.
shares; (c) write down the 6| p.c. pref.
shares by ss. a share, but arrange for them
to be entitled to cumulative div. at the rate
of 8 p.c. p.a. The proposals were accom-
panied by the following statements: —
After careful investigation, the directors are
assured by the management that if the affairs of the
co. are now placed on a really sound basis, there is
every reason to hope that prosperity will return.
Assets have been drastically revised and stocks
revalued, so that the various departments may be in
a position to make large reductions in the volume of
current stocks and show satisfactory working profits
on realisation.
Seven-eighths of the departments last year re-
turned satisfactory profits.
Business is being well maintained. Turnover shows
a satisfactory increase.
Overhead wis reduced last year by £BO9B and it is
aimed to reduce it by a further £15,000. at least.
That sounds definite and determined,
although an obvious comment is that if seven-
eighths of the departments returned satis-
factory profits for the 12 months the others
must have broken all speed records in re-
verse.
The writing down of capital will provide
£135,625. which will at least allow the slate
to be wiped clean. The writing off of the
accrued pref. divs. (£16.250) merely, of
course, removes a contingent liability, albeit
a substantial one. The position, when all
is done, remains far from bright:—
1920. 1925. 1926. 1927.
Debentures .. £lOO,OOO £lOO,OOO £lOO,OOO £lOO,OOO
Mortgages . . 33,000 20,000 20,000 20,000
Other liabilities 203,459 250,973 225,116 283,109
Freeholds, etc. 43,862 63,595 63,513 63,390
Plant, etc. .. 11,811 16,598 17,650 16,032
Stocks . . 493,086 378,035 324,265 320,698
Book debts . . 150,083 145,453 160,300 164,841
Cash, etc. . . 47,370 3,217 13,710 3,342
Outside liabilities arc heavy, and while the
directors state that drastic reductions have
been made in stocks, the item is only £3566
less than at the previous balance. Book
debts are heavier; although it is affirmed
that those have been carefully scrutinised,
and bad and doubtful debts provided for.
Creditor items, apart from debenture debt
and mortgage, consist of deposits. £S2“O
(£6500 less) ; sundry creditors, £47,451
(£28.317 less) ; bills payable, £B6 506
(£0526 greater) ; overdraft, £140,782
(£83,308 greater). It is not possible to get
very ln'larious over that list. Apart from
the difficulties which softgoods importers arc
experiencing these days, no abnormal influ-
ences were at work last year. But to a
firm like Boatli, Schiess and Felstead, which
had no reserve strength, but had. on the
contrary, a very nice string of weaknesses,
every difficulty was magnified in its effects.
Some pref. holders may protest on the
ground that a pref. is a pref. and has rights
which should be left alone. A point that
will not be without influence, however, is
that (a) the market has valued their shares
at 125.. and (b) prefs. will get from the
increased rate £6OOO in divs. as against
£6500. The reorganisation and writing off
will give the co. a new start, and the reduc-
tion of overhead and the elimination of un-
profitable depts. should, if the business is
holding, make progress possible. The
arrangement may not be the best in the
world, but it is good enough to try.
-X- * * *
The Emu Bat Railway Co. (Tas-
mania) :
Dcben- Deficit
Ordinary ture Capi- (Goodwill
and Pre- tal and Items not
ferential Accrued Divi- Reckoned
Dec, Capital. Interest. Profit, dends. Assets).
191 G. . £295,000 £201,494 £4Ol Ail £97,886
Loss.
1917.. 296,000 203,169 9,061 Nil 106,947
1918.. 295,000 208,961 2,718 Nil)
Renewals written off, £10,750.. J
1919.. 295,000 244,212 7,785 Nil (
Renewals written off, £10,000.. ) ’
Profit.
1920.. 295,000 260,263 887 Nil)
Renewals written off, £8900..) ’
Loss.
1921.. 295,000 271,357 12,781 Nil 158,994
1922.. 296,000 282,815 10,703 Nil 169,697
1923.. 295,000 293,693 10,849 Nil 180,540
Asset reinstatement £2546 .. 178,000
Capital written down, £78,000 .. 100,000
Profit.
1924.. 300,571 397,964 11,310 Nil 99,921
1925.. 300,571 397,574 11,150 Nil 99,996
1926.. 300,571 397,574 13,568 Nil 99,985
The c<>. did a trifle better last year, and that
gave holders of the 5 p.c. debenture stock
2| p.c. as against 2 p.c. the previous year.
Although Electrolytic Zinc is now at work
developing the Read-Rosebery mines, its
operations have not yet brought much into
the till of Emu Bay Rail. That is not to
say that something will not come out of the
big zinciferous deposits of the Speck's west
coast. But it is not likely to be either rapid
or very large.
This is the mess which existed in 1923, with
figures as at, December 31 last: —
1923. 1926.
Debentures .. .. .. .. £172,000 £397,574
Pref. capital . . . . . . 100,000 183,571
Ordinary capital . . . . . . 195,000 117,000
Deferred rent and interest .. 41,100
Deferred debenture interest .. 55,964 —_
Interest and unpresented coupons 2,487 10,712
Funded div. certificates and
interest . . . . .. .. 22,142
Arrears of pref. divs. .. .. 40,000
Sundry creditors . . .. 2,571 5,915
Accumulated losses .. .. 80,545
The position was such in 1923 that something
simply had to be done. The 19245 figures
disclose the nature of the rearrangement
made. The debentures were divided into
41 p.c. and 5 p.c.—both irredeemable, the
latter also non-cumulative. Prefs. were
made non-cumulative, but that was more or
less merely a matter of words, for they have
not had a div. since before the war, nor does
there appear to be any prospect of one. And
the one certainty about ordinary capital is
that only a miracle can give it anything.
Hitherto, its only use has been for writing
down purposes to balance the accounts.
At the moment it seems most unlikely that
anything more will emerge out of the business
than debenture interest. It is understood
that treatment of the Read-Rosebery deposits
will be on the field, which means that there
will be less traffic to Zeehan than had figured
in the early hopes of those interested in Emu
Bay Rail. And there seems to belittle hope
of purchase by the Tasmanian Government
on any terms that would bring joy to the
shareholders. Last year's revenue was
£3580 more than in the previous year, and
£1676 came in from over-provision in pre-
vious years; but traffic expenses and rates
and taxes each took a bigger mouthful. At
December 31 liabilities (apart of course from
debentures) totalled £16,627. and there was
in cash £21,807, stores £14,224, book debts
£5540 and some lesser items, with the railway
and rolling stock in the books at £574,467.
The railway manager reported the various
sections in fair to good order.
*** * #
Westport-Stockton Coal Co., Ltd.
(M.L.)
r- —Dividends ~ Nominal
Pref. Writ- Re-
Profit. 8 p.e. Ords. ten Off. serves.
1918.. £7,956 £3BlB Nil £4OOO £10,703
1919.. 14 155 3865 5 p.c. =£6574 5500 8,919
1920.. 17,205 4798 6 „ „ 7888 3500 9,938
I,oss.
1921.. 1.113 Nil Nil 8,820
Profit.
1922.. 7,323 5305 Nil 1500 9.343
1923.. 312 Nil Nil 9.6»5
Loss.
1924.. 4,914 Nil Nil “
Profit. , IQS
1925.. 447 Nil Nil 5.1? 8
Loss. Deficit.
1926.. 5,713 Nil Nil 525
The management had been banking on the
flumes, and the shareholders, although dis-
heartened by the long, dry spell, presumably
were pinning their faith to the installation
of that particular plant. The new method
was to save £lO,OOO p.a.; not a big sum, but
it at least represented a div. to prefs. and
a probable small hand-out to ordinary share-
holders. Instead of 1926 showing ** prott
everything went wrong. Output was 114.Nih
tons, but that is little satisfaction to share-


Stuck
Heir's you* Rope,
G6T A ROF*E WO PULL »T OUT ,
Th/vts not the ntav to oo it,
IT TO ME,
PULL. ; BOVS , Pull !
AND THE CmkRT t=> 6TII-U
BTuCiL. IN The Map,
THE TUG OF WAR.
“The condition of affairs in the N. S. Wales Labor party remains in a state of chaos. Each of the discordant factions in the A.L.P. has declared the other bogus; and each
is preparing for a trial of strength.”


Don’t Lose Your
MONEY!
The
“‘WildCat’ Monthly”
Analyses the Position of Companies
and Stocks and Discusses New Issues.
The Story of Holden’s
April Number NOW ON SALE.
SINGLE COPY, 2/-
PER ANNUM, 22/6.
From
Principal Newsagents,
or
“The Bulletin” Offices,
Sydney or Melbourne.
We stock + GF -f- Malleable Fittings to suit
every requirement, and as there are over 7500
varieties to choose from, we can accommodate any
trade. For water, steam or gas. Will not split or
crack, and are correct in every detail. Obtainable
fiom William Adams & Co., Ltd., Sole Agents,
Sydney, Newcastle, Melbourne, Brisbane, Adelaide,
Perth. —Advt.
* * * *
Consistent, full delivery is essential to economic
maintenance of any water system. Pioneer Wood
Pipe cannot rust nor corrode. Its smooth interior
bore presents no repository for fungus, tubercles, etc.,
and actually increases in delivery efficiency the more
it is used. Pioneer Wood Pipe is more quickly and
cheaply freighted, transported and installed than metal
piping, and costs less to buy. The Australian Wood
Pipe Co., Ltd., Burns Bay Road, Lane Cove, N.SAV.
—Advt.
• * * »
WIRE ROPES —At STR ALI AN MADE—Prices and
particulars from Bullivants’ Australian Co., Ltd.,
831-333 Kent Street, Sydney; B. It. Morton Pro-
prietary, Ltd., 85 Clarence Street, Sydney; J. K.
Reid and Sons, 401-403 Kent Street, Sydney, Success-
fully used all over the Commonwealth for all pur-
poses.— Advt.
* # « *
Inventors. —Have you an idea worth patenting?
Griffith & Hassel, Patent Attorney, 77 Castlereagli
Street, Sydney, obtain Commonwealth and foreign
patents.— Advt.
* • * •
IDEAS —Commonwealth and Foreign Patents
obtained. Coduson k Co., 483 Collins Street, Mel-
bourne, and Adelaide. Thirty yeais’ practice. Write
us for Inventors’ Guide. — Advt.
• * * •
If you are a producer of ores, mattes, metals and
metalliferous residues of any kind, Burkard and
Co., Ltd., 26-30 Bridge Street, Sydney, are buyers
for U.K., Continent of Europe and ILS.A. smelters,
and will pay you the highest prices and give you
best terms. Advances made against ore —and market
information, prices, assays at your disposal. Send
samples and particulars.— Advt.
* * * *
Leprastriers’ Concrete Mixers —of all necessary
sizes—are designed and manufactured in Australia nr
expert engineers. Apply Goldsbrough House, Sydney;
Collins House, Melbourne ; 164 Edward Street, Bris-
bane ; or 21 Morphett Street., Adelaide. — Advt.
The Pacific Cable Board
BEST ROUTE TO GREAT BRITAIN.
CANADA. NEW ZEALAND, ere.
TARIFF PER WORD “VIA PACIFIC.”
Ordi- Daily Daily Letter
narv. Deferred. Telegram.
GREAT 1 2/- 1/- 9d. (minimum
BRITAIN ( 15/-, 20 words)
Week-end Vid.(minimumchargel2/6, 20 words)
FRANCE ‘ 2/7 1/3| Nil
HOLLAND
ni-LOHJM
OKI! MANY
SWITCI'.IiLAND
2/6 1/3
Nil
CANADA . . 1/2 oid. 7rl. (minimum
11 IS. 20 words)
Wppk-end 6Jd. (minimum charge 9/7,20 words)
U.S.A. .. 2/4 to 1/2 to Nil
2/8 2/4
NEW
ZEALAND.. 4|d.
f N.Z. Night Letter
| Rate minimum charge
] 3/- for 20 words and
L 2d. per word thereafter.
THE PACIFIC CABLE BOARD,
261 George Street, and 55 Liverpool Street,
Sydney.
Tel. City 1346 and 87784.
Collins House, Collins Street, Melbourne.
Tel. Central 2084.
Queensland
Insurance Co.
Ltd.
Head Office:
Pitt & Bridge Streets,
Sydney.
The Largest
Australian Company
transacting
Fire, Marine, Personal
Accident and Sickness,
Burglary, Live Stock,
Public Risk, Boiler Ex-
plosion, Workers’ Com-
pensation, etc., etc.
L
0OORD&SO1V
FINEST DRY GIN
&. OLD TOM
DT
Swift & Company Ltd.. Austrulusian Agents, 3(i 30 Clarence St- Sydney■
WHO IS THE EXECUTOR OF YOUR WILL ?
TF you have appointed a friend, have you considered that he may die soon \
A and your Estate may pass into the control of someone whom you would never nave • w
That he may maladminister the Funds? Or your Instate may suffer losses through Ins n -
inexperience ?
THESE RTSKS CAN BE GUARDED AGAINST BY APPOINTING AS
PERPETUAL TRUSTEE COMPANY (
YOUR EXECUTOR
LIMITED)
OF 33-39 HUNTER STREET, SYDNEY, . .
which offers undoubted security, combined with Expert Admimstratio .
CAPITAL AND RESERVES.
Subscribed Capital . . .. .. .. .. £I>OOO,OOU
Uncalled Capital 840,000
Perpetual Deposit with Government 20,0 W
RESERVE FUND I ®«nn 000
Trust Funds Now Under the Company’s Control Exceed uw, ,
Write or Call for Booklet. Managing Director : R. Copland Letim »
Manager: H. V. Douglas^
holders, who see the mine so much the poorer
and the financial position visibly worsened
by £5713.
Proceedings at the annual meeting dis
closed that some of the pertinent questions
asked by this Column have been agitating
the minds of directors and shareholders. There
appears to have been a clearing-up. Share-
holders were informed that the flume pro-
position had proved a complete dud, and that
the entire system had been abandoned early
in the term because (1) in the burning
much of the coal was reduced to powdei
and carried away; (2) what remained was
broken; and (3) the flumes themselves wert
torn to pieces by the action of the minera
as it was washed down the steel-lined traffic
ways. As a consequence, electrical haulage
was resumed in June and changes made in
the mine management. Faced with the neces-
sity of wiping out the heavy loss incurred
over the first half, and the additional cost
of bringing the old system up to efficiency,
the board, according to the report, wiped
out part of the deficit. But, presumably on
the basis that the flume is being kept as
a standby, it still figures amongst the fixed
assets, and although the exact amount _is
not specified, judged on its past behavior
the co. has taken a rose-colored view of its
value. The original cost of the flumes was
about £32,000 and their net achievement
lias been a loss totalling £26,000. From
the accounts in the possession of this
Column, it would seem that all recent equip-
ment expenditure had been charged to capi-
tal. On this ocasion the co.’s auditor com-
ments that depreciation has not been
adequately provided for —a serious state-
ment, which moved the chairman to the
remark that the board would go into the
matter in the near future. At December
31 property account was in at £255,361, a
very solid figure for a mine whose net pro-
gress over the past six years has been
losses £3658 greater than profits, and which
has handed out in that period only one div.
to its pref. shareholders. Few of the big
profit-winners among the coalmines of Aus-
tralia value their pits at so much as a quarter
million each. Here are balance-sheet figures:
IQ9I lQ9fi
Debentures £52,796 £70,651) £70,651
Sundry creditors, etc. .. 16,683 8,652 8,429
Property, plant, etc. .. 249,906 262,975 259,675
Coal stocks 4,865 1,192 1,014
Book debts, etc 17,235 18,109 15,652
The debenture debt was unchanged. Other
liabilities were not important. There are
132,631 fully-paid 10s. prefs. and 262.040
fully-paid 10s. ordinaries. What there is
to represent them depends, of course, on the
true value of the mine property and plant.
The profit-earning capacity has hitherto been
feeble, but there should certainly be some-
thing in it for shareholders if the house
is put in order and the rubbish swept out.
For instance, although last year’s output was
114.804 tons, more coal could have been sold
had it been produced. The directorate
appears to be making a serious attempt to
clean up the show.
* * * *
Shareholders of Ives Reward (W.A.) are
after the scalp of the Adelaide board. For
years a yarn was spun that the show was
going to turn out one of the best goldmines
in Australia, and for years the Wild Oat
declared that it wouldn’t. The board, how-
ever, said that mill returns would justify
official optimism, but they averaged only a
few pennyweights instead of the predicted
ounces. Finally, after several reconstruc-
tions and considerable Government assist-
ance, the co. gave up.
In 1925 Coolgardie was pegged, and added
to the list of “oil-bearing regions” in the
West. Now it is announced that a Mel-
bourne co. with £50,000 to £60,000 in hand
is about to try its luck there. Years ago a
small deposit of shale was found near the
town and was magnified by interested per-
sons into something big. Later, experts
pronounced it to be of no commercial value,
and down came the blind. Apparently an
attempt is being made to raise it again.
* * * *
Westralian Chamber of Mines made its
annual appeal to the Government the other
day. It declared that the extra workers’
insurance that mine-owners have to pay for
under the Act passed last year—equal to £ll
per employee per year—is the last straw, or
thereabouts, and urged that the State should
carry this load and make insurance of mine
workers in respect of industrial diseases a
charge on State funds. It also reckoned that
the Federal Government should assist Aus-
tralian goldmining by means of a subsidy,
leaving to the State Government the job of
helping individual mines or groups of mines.
If blamed the war, which took away many
miners and increased the cost of supp'ies and
labor, for the dilapidated mine buildings and
out-of-date plant, but was silent about the
rich returns obtained for years by tributors
in the Boulder Perseverance and lately in
the Gt, Boulder after shareholders had been
officially assured that there was little, if
anything, left to take out, and that the under-
taker would be wanted before long. Strong
objection was taken to the F'ederal Govern-
ment’s apparent lack of confidence in the
{present Ivalgoorlie managements, and the
■appeal concluded with a black curse on the
'44-hour week.
Westralia is whooping over the discovery
of a trace of radium in certain rock at
Glenelg Hills and promoters of alleged gold-
mines there are making the most of the find.
A similar whoop was heard some years ago
when a trace of radium was found at Wod-
gina, in the North-West. It soon ceased.
This one is likely to do the same.
-X- * * *
A. H. Stewart, engineer to Tanami
(N.T.), confirms Dr. Jensen’s opinion of the
show, and asserts that the only fly in the
butter is the refractory suction-gas engine
—a little matter that should not have been
left to chance in such an isolated region.
Stone from the stopes ranges in value from
20dwt. to lOOdwt., says Stewart, shows
visible gold freely, and should crush a 2oz.
average. “The mine will yield a large ton-
nage of selected ore of this grade, and
is undoubtedly a highly profitable mining
proposition.” Equally welcome to over-tired
holders is the announcement that “an ample
water supply” has been tapped at 180 ft.
The market has bucked a little, especially
in the prefs., which have been finding the
cash since the 160,000 ordinaries slumped.
The amalgamation of the Dreadnought,
Boulder, Renison Bell and Montana silver-
-1 ad mines, Zeehan-Dundas (Tas.), has formed
die basis of an ambitious project. The pro-
moters have spent £3OOO testing and want
£15,000 more to prove the ore in sight—
said to be worth £3,000,000. To acquire
the mines will cost £15,000, so the proposed
company needs £30,000 and has asked the
Government for £15,000 on the £ for £ basis.
Because the new co. would require a big
quantity of power from the State hydro-electric
works, the Government is disposed to pro-
vide the money, probably in the belief that
ultimately the Department of Migration and
Markets will find it out of the British loan of
£34,000,000.
* * * *
“Brown Coal Crank”: It is good to hear
that a London co. has been formed to distil
oil out of the brown coal known as Buckley’s
Paddock, Morwell (Vie.). Long ago a Gov-
ernment bore left off drilling at 1010 feet and
passed through a total of 808 feet of brown
coal in three tremendous beds of 266 ft., 227 ft.
and 116 ft. respectively, with four other
smaller seams. The coal was struck at
132 ft. from the surface. An average analysis
of 32 samples gave water 22.08 p.c., volatile
matter 34.66, fixed carbon 40.18 and ash 2.79.
The fixed carbon increased with depth, and
a sample from 975 ft. gave 48 per cent. This
bed of brown coal deserves exploitation be-
cause it is drier and higher than the Yallourn
saturated deposit. In 1899, James Stirling,
then Government Geologist, reported that this
Morw'ell bed had no parallel elsewhere. In
his report he stated he had had samples
tested at the Scottish shale works by J.
C. Butterfield, F.C.S., a leading British
authority on coal. Butterfield’s report is
before me now :
The dark sample No. 1 yielded 30 gallons of
crude oil per ton. This is considerably above
the average of the best Scottish shale and German
brown coal. The second sample yielded gallons
crude oil to the ton and 30.98 p.c. of coke. This
is a valuable product which could easily be
briquetted.
Butterfield explained the difference between
30 gallons from sample No. 1 and 74 gallons
from sample No. 2 as due to the mixture of
ligneous portions of the coal with oil-bearing
portions which could be separated mechani-
cally during the process. The proposed London
co. is to be called the L. and L. Brown Coal
Distillation Co., which hopes in six months to
shift 4000 tons of overburden daily and then
treat 1000 tons of coal daily for 28,500 gal-
lons of oil. The coke and ammonia residues
ought to be marketable at a profit, and the
briquettes should be more cheaply produced
and be sold at a lower price than the Gov-
ernment briquettes made from the sodden
Yallourn mixture. It looks as though the day
of the practical use of Victoria’s thirty thou-
sand million tons of brown coal is dawning.
* * * *
Tom Waters lately got the dredge over
the bar at Kennedy’s Freehold. Glen Creek,
30 miles from Emmaville (N.S.W.). Half
a ton of tin oxide has been recovered each
week since, and in a month’s time the plant
should be up to McNab’s first bore and work-
ing 21b. ground. Tbe 26,000 shares are all
paid to the limit of 10s., and the near
approach to the promised land has quick-
ened the market to 4s. When things looked
black a year ago, and the quidnuncs told
Waters he’d “never get her over the bar,”
the scrip could have been had for 6d.
Manager Porter, of the Loch Slov T. M.
Co., which is two miles from Flagstone
(N.S.W.), reports that crushing has com-
menced with five head. The most promis-
ing patch is in a winze at No. 3 level, 56ft.
going south from the shaft at 120 ft. vertical.
Ore in the level is low grade, but, in the
winze 5 p.c. values were struck at 4ft.
down, and further on 10 p.c. assays
taken from 21in. formation. The co. is in
120,000 ss. shares, of which 5000 fullv uaids
wont to the original syndicate, 35,000 con-
tribs. have paid the full 55., and 10,000 ditto
have put up 4s. When this lot have paid
another Is., the financial contribs. will num-
ber 45,000, and will be allotted a like number
of fully-paids, leaving 25,000 contribs. still
in the hands of the co. James Hilton, the
sec., also has Kennedy's Freehold and the
Sydney and Twyford Malayan group in his
stable.
* * * *
George Goodman’s indignant note:—
It is recorded (B. 17/3/’27) that the Helevale
area on the Annan River (N.Q.) has been turned
down on account of being- too bouldery to prospect.
That statement is in direct contradiction to Geolo-
gist St. Smith’s 1915 report. At the time of his
1915 examination some 35 pits were open for inspec-
tion. My method of prospecting the area to water-
level was to start a pit about 20 feet square ana
sink on a batter till water-level was reached, then
put from a quarter- to a half-yard (cubic) through
the sluice-box. These samples were taken by cut-
ting through the spoil on four sides of the shaft
and quartering it down in the usual way. War
broke out and brought things to a standstill. How-
ever, I got backing and put some boreholes down.
Only one was bottomed —at 04 feet from the level
of the western bank, or 36 feet below water-level.
I struck nothing in the pits that could not be
thrown out with a shovel. Yet I am told that
the ground is too bouldery. The truth is that it is
too Australian.
* * •» *
Mount Morgan is still on the map. In
spite of the almost complete cessation of
activities at the big mine, the town has
6000 inhabitants and the business people are
carrying on satisfactorily. A Melbourne
paper recently stated that Mount Lyell was
the only copper show producing in the Com-
monwealth. Smelting only commenced at
Morgan a few weeks ago and no official figure
has yet been issued, but if you can buy the
present production of the Mount for £lOOO
a day, lots of people will be surprised, and
by the end of April, if all goes' well, you
would not have enough left out of £2O(X),
after buying one day’s production, to pay for
a six o’clock refresher.
* * * *
“Stalwart”: Queensland is rich in
mineral wealth, and the Far North has been
merely prodded. Eight years ago a _ small
syndicate decided to try York Peninsula.
Recently it located a find which promised
excellently. Analyses of samples taken
over a wide area yielded results in tin which
would make a Malayan prospector’s pen
tremble. The syndicate offered a free option
for a reasonable period to allow of thorough
investigation and testing. But negotiations
were broken off on the grounds that the loca-
tion was “too inaccessible.” The proposition
could have been reached practically dry-shod ;
a passenger steamer passed the door; and
arrangements had been made to meet the
field expert with a comfortable launch. Yet,
without inspection and in the face of
evidence that the proposition was worthy
of investigation, it was found that the
locality was “too inaccessible.” As before
stated, the syndicate asked for nothing until
the field was proved, and then was prepared
to accept fully-paid shares for its interests.
If • the ground were five times more
“inaccessible,” that wouldn’t have mattered
had it been outside Australia. The
cardinal thing wrong with the proposition
was that it was in our own country. What
progress can we hope to make when we thus
spit on our own assets? And, remember,
mining is the only thing that will pioneer
settlement in this particular district of N.
Queensland.
* * * *
All doubts as to the practicability of
carrying goods by ’plane over the 7000 ft.
range that fences the Bulolo Valley from the
beach at Salamoa should be set at rest, one
way or the other, in a week or so. New
Guinea Gold has received a report that its
de Haviland ’plane is ready to begin its ser-
vice. Landing grounds in the Valley goldfield
have been completed, and hangars built. It
only remains to be seen whether the ’plane
can climb such a height with a payable load.
* * * *
Malay-Siamese Prospecting Co. has pub-
lished a further report of its activities. No
fresh news is given of the lode-tin show at
Kosebah which the co. is testing, but such
a proposition will take some time to chew
over. The reports on the co.’s shows in
operation or embryo show that Nawng Tet
lias got over the water difficulties which
have been a handicap in the past. Capital
increase will enable installation of an auxi-
liary hydro-electric plant. There is now
enough water to run one elevator till the
next wet season comes in, when another can
be utilised. “The Pet’s” return for March
was 15 tons from just under 19,000 yards—
a big improvement on February. It took
640 hours, however, to get it. Huey Yot
has got rid of its suction-cutter dredge for
£20,000—-£BOOO less than the co. estimated
it would get, when the reconstruction esti-
mates were issued. Some 24 acres of new
ground have been added to the 224 acres
acquired at the time of reconstruction. Daz-
zling estimates of £230,000 return from four
million yards, with tin £2OO (Bond.), may
be left to the future to confirm. Werf
Conrad will have the new dredge ready by
the end of this year. Ilaad Yai’s boring is
proceeding, and checking is reported to have
confirmed earlier figures. Dredge erection,
begun last month, is proceeding satisfac-
torily.
Rawang’s financial year ended on March
33. A working profit of £112,300 has been
made by the dredge and the sluicing plant.
In addition a profit of £22,500 resulted from
the sale of 90,000 Rawang Concessions shares
at a premium of 55., increasing the total cash
profits to £134,800, which, with the balance
brought forward (£7200), makes available
£342,000. Four interim divs. amounting to
£48,000 have been naid. This leaves a
balance of £96,000, as well as 45,000 fully-
paid shares in Rawang Concessions, these be-
ing Rawang Tin’s share of the profit from
the flotation.
* * * #
'Tanah Biji Limited, A. P. Penman’s show
(capital £25,000 in 25,000 £1 shares), has
moved up on the market. A month ago
there were sales at under 705.; buyers are
now offering 80s. The co. holds 25,000 fully-
paids in Jelapang, which is due to start
dredging in three or four months, and 30,000
fully paids in Serendah. Rumors from the
North state Penman has lobbed on a large
lump of yardage of goodly value _ not far
from Rawang. Tanah Biji’s practice is to
offer all the contrib. capital of its sub-
sidiaries to its shareholders, from whom
outsiders secure their requirements. None
come on the market, as the directors have
hitherto taken all not wanted by share-
holders.


z
iS
vo
7
\
A
3S&
1
>
rT
\
V
SSHI
EXA
DR t
Following Friction round the Globe
20
Years Ago.
TWENTY years ago a great invention as regards the
construction of Ball-Bearing devices was made. This
invention consisted of a self-aligning Ball Bearing with
double grooves. It was in this construction and the
unique quality imparted to this Ball Bearing by the utmost
precision in the manufacture, and the use of the choicest
raw material, that the brilliant development of the SKF
Organisation was based during its first stage.
To
Day.
TO-DAY wheels turn on SIC F"-marked bearings in
every civilised corner of the globe. SKP
possesses factories in England, Sweden, France, Germany,
Russia and U.S.A. Its products are supplied to the final
customer by a world organisation which embraces the
globe. SICF wages its anti-friction crusade under 38
flags; its counsel on friction problems is given in 22
tongues.
believe that this is significant to the executive that the wide-
spread use that is being made of SICF’ anti-friction products
to-day, is the biggest of all tributes to the correctness of the same,
the high calibre of the workmanship, and the anti-friction service
SKP offers everywhere.
Ŕ
SELF ALIGNING
BALL BEARING
FOR NORMAL LORDS
SELF ALIGNING ROLLER
BEARING FOR HEAVY
LOADS AND SEVERE DUTY
15
7 THE SKF BALL BEARING CO. LTD.
Melbourne: 595 Bourke Street.
Sydney: 45 King Street.
Adelaide: Win. Adams & Cp. Ltd.
Brisbane': Wm. Adams & Co. Ltd.
Perth : Unbchaun & Johnstone
(W. A.) Ltd.
Launceston : W. H. Knight &
Peter Bros. Ltd.
Hobgrt: Charles Davis Ltd.


IVnnotts Wotel
Brisbane 09
Magnificent Ballroom, Palm
Court, and Lounges at the
disposal of guests and their
friends at all times.
Suites de Luxe —double and single Bedrooms, with Bath-
rooms attached. Hot and cold running water and Electric
Fans in every Bedroom, together with every modern con-
venience for the comfort of guests.
ce>n/r>o of
Quoeno/an c/o
( DishnPuished
Social Life.
J -
¥
A
&
TELEGRAMS & CABLES — LENNONS , BRISBANE.
TELEPHONE CENT. 5780 (lO LINES).
Two Choice Dia-
monds in hexagonal
settings with small
diamonds at the
sides, £22/10/-
Fino Diamond with
small diamonds at
the sides, set in
platinum and 18ct.
gold, £65.
Two Choice Dia-
monds set in plati-
num and ISct
gold, with small
diamonds at the
sides, FlO/-
Magnificent
Gems
CLEVERLY SET
and
KEENLY PRICED
Fairfax & Roberts, Ltd.,
The Oldest Jewellery House in Sydney,
23 and 25 HUNTER STREET.
Plain Figures—Cash Only.
Three Fine Dia-
monds in hexagonal
settings with small
diamonds at the
sides, £3O.
Choirs Diamond*
with four emerald*
at corners, set m
all platinum, iou
Phree Fine D>»:
nonds in octagonal
ilatinum setting-
n 18ct. gold nr ='
#.35
A WOMAN'S
LETTER
SAY
Kayser
SLIPPER HEEL
[?]
STOCKINGS
One man who lias an invitation to Can-
berra and says lie won’t go is King O’Malley.
Open Canberra?” lie says. “It’s open. I
opened it in front of 6000 people _ years
ago.” That was when he was Minister
for Home and Territories. But the King
did something more for Canberra —he was
conspicuous in fastening the leasehold system
on to it. He lias one more connection with
the capital; he is associated with Burley
Griffin, the American architect who made
the prize design, in laying out the “model
suburb” of Castlecrag, on Middle Harbor
(Sydney). At 74 the King is still full of
energy—-a good exhibit for the Cold-tea
party. He has never either smoked or taken
liquor. These days, too, lie is a one-meal
man.
PROFESSOR MUNGO McCALLUM, of
Sydney, whose Scot’s soul rebelled against
the idea of spending £60,000 or less on a
campanile when there was a perfectly good
tower lying idle, and whose opposition
hilled the proposal.
Jack Cain, who had a walkover for the
Northcote seat in Yic. Assembly—W. H.
Warren, the Nash nominee, pulled out at the
last moment —was one of Labor’s front bench
men in the last House. He was an honorary
Minister in the Prendergast team (1924),
and gave Hogan a hand in the Agricultural
Department. In a stonewall debate Jack
can spruik till the cows come home, and
his breezy interjections have knocked the
props from under many a speaker on the
other side of the House.
Morris Symonds, who, though not the
wealthiest of the .Tews in Sydney, has come
into notice as a big giver to worthy causes,
has recently returned from a trip abroad
determined to revive an old project. He
wants to see a chair of Hebrew established
at the Sydney University. H is money has
been up, waiting for University action,
ever since he broached the proposal. Mel*
bourne already has a chair of Hebrew, and
presumably Sydney Uni. won’t allow the offer
to go begging for long.
J. J. Trumble, a good Australian of the
third generation, goes out of the Common-
wealth Savings Bank in his 70th year, after
completing 53 years of public service. He has
weathered more changes of -Government than
did the old Vicar of Bray, but, unlike the
Vicar, has not had to change his opinions. A
chess enthusiast ever since he could move the
pieces, Trumble recounts with glee that 40
years ago, when Clayfield (Q.), where he
resided, was mostly bush, lie mentioned to the
pojice sergeant who ruled over the district that
it was difficult to find a convenient meeting
place where he and his cronies might play
chess. The sergeant was horrified. “Har-rd
to find a place, is ut?” he said. “I’ll see it’s
much har-rder for ye! I’ll have no gamblin’
hells in my disthrict!”
One of the most picturesque figures in
Maoriland politics, Peter Buck, son of an
English father and a Maori mother, goes to
the Bishop Museum, Honolulu, for a five
years’ term, on the strength of his researches
in Polynesian ethnology. Buck, who
graduated M.D. at Otago Uni., has occu-
pied many official posts as a guardian of
Maori health, and was in the thick of things
all through the Big Scrap, where he collected
a D.S.O. He was Minister representing the
Maoris in the short-lived Mackenzie Govern-
ment. Like his friend the late Timi Kara, he
was a mellifluous and engaging political
speaker, and the Savage and Orphans’ Clubs
in Auckland will mourn the loss of their best
storyteller.
R. L. Butler, the new S. Aus. Premier,
has named H. Homburg Attorney-General. In
the Jenkins Ministry of 1904-05, in which
Butler’s father held office, the Attorney-
General was Ilomburg’s father. The elder
Homburg was later transferred to the
Supreme Court Bench. The younger is the
partner of Alex. Melrose, who, besides being
a lawyer and a squatter, is just about S.
Australia’s most facile rhymester.
“Last Post” lias sounded in England for
Lieut.-Colonel Robert Owen, who was in
charge of the 3rd Battalion at the Gallipoli
landing. When death came to Colonel Mac-
laurin and General Bridges, Owen took
command of the Ist Brigade; but three
months of the heavy responsibility and a
wound knocked him out. Like his brother
Colonel Percy Owen, now Director-General
of Federal Public Works, lie started work
in the N.S.W. Public Service. Both went
to the S. African War, but the one who has
just died was there as a British officer.
After the Soudan he secured a commission
in the British Army, which he left in 1905
to join the M.L. Defence staff.
In exchanging the job of window-dresser at
Farmer’s for a career of art Douglas Dundas,
winner of the Society of Artists’ travelling
scholarship, is following the example of
Elioth Gruner. Gruner was “in drapery”
some 12 years ago; he dressed the win-
dows at Way’s. He had no scholarship to
encourage him, but resigned his job and faced
the world with a capital of £25. Gruner was
so struck by the work of Dundas, a farm lad
of 22, that he advised the boy to come to
Sydney, and when Dundas took the plunge
it was Gruner who put in the word that
secured him a job with the Sydney drapery
firm.
Dr. John Dale, proposed as Melbourne’s
next Health Officer, will be unpopular in
laundry circles. He started the no-collar
movement in Perth.
Federal Parliamentary messengers were
frankly disappointed when they learned that
Customs Minister Pratten intended to take
a long holiday. The messengers regard
Pratten as a sort of fairy godfather, for his
benefactions to them are regular and con-
siderable. Bruce, Cameron and Duncan
Hughes also can be relied upon, but they
are not so princely as Pratten.
Vic. public service is going to lose S. N.
Rodda, the big man whose energy pervades
the Working-men’s College in Melbourne.
Rodda recently got a rise in salary from
£BOO to £9OO per annum, but nobody who
has seen the highly technical outfit he super-
vises, with its 5000 pupils, would be im-
pressed by that. Anyhow, he has decided
to become managing director of a syndicate
which proposes to exploit a tinfield in the
Mitta district (Vic.).
Died recently at Taringa (Q.) Mrs.
McGaskill, one of the pioneers, who had a
tragic adventure in the early ’sixties. With
her husband and two infants she lived in a
hut, far from any neighbour. One day, in
her husband’s absence, a mob of blacks sur-
rounded the hut and told Mrs. McKenzie,
as she then was, that they intended to kill
her husband and come back for her. When
they disappeared she took to the scrub with
her babies, in an endeavor to reach her
husband. After many hours she found a
track that led to a station, which
she reached utterly exhausted. A search
party found her husband’s dead body—
the blacks had kept that part of their
promise. The young widow returned to
Rockhampton, travelling six weeks on a
bullock-dray to reach the town. Later on
she married again. She leaves 50 grand-
children and 21 great-grandchildren.
Francis Joseph Rglleston, Attorney-General
of Maoriland. who also broods over Defence,
Police and Pensions, is a son of “Dismal
Bill'’ Rolleston, who was one of the Super-
intendents of Canterbury province in the
The Hon. F.J.
ROLLESTON,
Attorney-General
and Minister of
justice and Defence
of Maoriland.
days when the scat-
tered settlements
governed them-
selves. Like his
father, he is a man
of indepe n dent
mind—Bill said
harder things about
his own party than
any of its oppo-
nents could think
of, knowing more
about it—and until
he bee a m e a
Cabinet Minister he
was one of the
shrewdest financial
critics the Massey-
ites, his own crowd,
had to put up with.
Now they have
given him so much
work to do that he
doesn’t have time
to notice how much
is being borrowed.
He first tried to get
into Parliament in
1905, but his home
town, Timaru, re-
fused to give him
a seat until five
years ago, when he
beat a Laborite.
He made good in
his first term and is
now firmly in the
saddle.
Billy Angwin, Westralia’s new Agent-
General, left a seat behind him that he had
held for 21 years without a contest, which
was doubtless one reason why the London
job was his for the asking. Angwin was
first returned for the constituency that is
now North-East Fremantle in 1904. He lost
the seat in 1905, but lodged an appeal, and a
new election was ordered. This the little
Cousin Jack won in 1906, and after that he
was never put to the expense of a contest.
The experience of being returned unopposed
for 21 years must be something like a record
for an Australian politician.
Edward Davies, dead in Adelaide, was
a many-sided artist who stood high among
South Australian architects. A Monmouth-
shire lad, he came to Victoria as a toddler
in 1845, and went over to the wheat State
when he had finished his articles as an
architect in Melbourne. A landscape artist
of considerable merit, he is represented m
the National Gallery in Adelaide. He was
a prominent figure in all the cultural circles
with which Adelaide abounds, and was presi-
dent of the South Aus. Architects’ Associa-
tion for years.
A young man who reported to the Swedish
consulate in Sydney last week was able to
prove that he is the rightful heir to £5OOO
p.a. and a title. Goran Falkenberg was a
cadet on the Swedish training-ship Manhem
when it visited Australia in 1924. He heard
the call of the Bush and deserted at New-
castle. His family heard vaguely that he
was in Queensland, but when various deaths
made him a Count and the owner of an
entailed estate, rewards were offered for his
discovery. He saved the necessity for pay-
ment by reporting himself.
Bob Mitchell, the patriarchal housekeeper
of the Reps., is packing his goods and
chattels for the trek to Canberra, where
he will carry on as head of the domestic,
staff. Despite his 47 years’ service in the
Vic. and Federal Parliaments, Mitchell is
one of the most active, and certainly the
hardest-worked, of the Parliamentary staff.
He has served under six Speakers, and has
seen hundreds of members come and go.
Anybody who has been disappointed over
the monkey-gland treatment for prolonging
life might try oellringing. John Guest, cap-
tain of St. Paul’s Cathedral bellringers (Mel-
bourne), celebrated his 84th birthday the
other day: but, nothing daunted, proposes
to ring a bell weighing lGcwt. at Faster in
connection with a peal involving 6000 changes.
The only thing that worries him is whether
the rest of his team can last the distance.
You have to be a combination of a Marathon
runner, a weight-lifter and a gymnast to ring
6000 changes.
For sticking at it Joe Woolf, for nearly
45 years Tije Bulletin’s lawyer in Mel-
bourne, takes some beating. In 1914 a client
who engaged Woolf’s interest got a judgment
against one Vere Herbert Casey for £4OO
in an action for breach of promise. Casey
didn’t pay and went insolvent. Meantime
he appeared to flourish, but he made no
application for a certificate until 1924.
Woolf objected, but to his surprise Judge
Moule granted the application. Woolf
appealed to the Full Court, and the Full
Court allowed the appeal. In 1925 Casey
again applied for a certificate of discharge
and Judge Moule again granted it. This
time, on appeal, the Full Court wen-
against the lady’s persistent lawyer; it
dismissed the apneal. But Woolf, still
full of confidence, went to the High Court,
which a week ago set aside the order of the
Full Court and the order of the Court of
Insolvency, and ordered costs of all courts
to he paid by Casey. For the present that
ends 13 years’ intermittent litigation.
“Ex-Duntroon” : “A.I 1.G.,” in a recent Red
Page article, said that Rudyard Kipling "prob-
ably would have written otherwise had he
been sent to a normal public school instead
of to that strange academy. . . .which lie has
described realistically”—in “Stalky and Co."
and elsewhere! It was the boy himself who
differed from the normal, not the school.
General Godley, originally in command of the
Maoriland Division, and Colonel Maclagau,
who commanded the 3rd Brigade, A.1.F., at
the Landing, were contemporaries of Kipling
at that same school; and they were both
typical English public-school products.
Alec McLeod, who will represent the
Coates Ministry (M.L.) at the Canberra
opening, is an enormous person, who was
born in the Shivery Isles 55 years ago, of
Scottish parents. He’s been in Parliament
only eight years, and Minister of Lands
for three, but he is the big boss of the
Reform party’s organisation. Thoroughness
and a Carlylean devotion to facts are his
strongest characteristics. Opponents of the
Government leave McLeod alone. He never
talks about anything without having dug
down to its roots, and when he makes up
his mind, all the King’s horses and all the
King’s men can’t shift him.
Ex-Constable William Arthur Youdan,
dead at Ballarat, earned the Valor Badge foi
tackling George Shaw, who had just killed
Constable Johnston, of St. Kilda, and who
had previously killed Sen.-Constable Guilfoyle,
of Sydney. When closed with, Shaw shot
himself. Youdan, in addition to the badge,
received £5O reward from the N.S.W.
Government and a purse of sovs. from the
citizens of St. Kilda.
Because a quorum (two Ministers) could
not be mustered the other day, no meeting
of the Victorian Executive Council could be
held. It is seldom that-a Melbourne Cabinet
lets down a Governor in this way. How
sensitive Ministers are on the matter is illus-
trated by an incident that happened in the
Premier’s room when Peacock was head of
a Ministry for the second time. A long-winded
deputation was trying Alec’s patience, and
when one speaker referred to the “grand
old flag floating on the next building,” the
Premier glanced hurriedly at his engagement-
list and interrupted the orator. “Your men-
tion of that ‘grand old flag’,” he said,
“reminds me that if I don’t finish up here
JUDGE LUKIN, formerly of Q[?]
now of the Commonwealth Arbitration
Court.
soon and hurry over to the Executive Cound
I will get a wigging from the Governor wm
I will richly deserve.’ Then he explai
that the ensign was hoisted to notify ' - 1
his Ex. had arrived in the old Treas .•
The deputation was out of the room
five minutes.
PICKWICKIAN.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“Several Sydney Uni. professors have rushed into
the S. M. Hiciiai,i) to voice their burning indignation
at the term ‘disingenuous,’ applied by George Fuller
to the Vice-Chancellor’s attitude over the campanile
question. The ex-Premier declares that he used the
word in no invidious sense.”
George, when your native State you ran
’Mid biased Labor’s gibes and yells,
You weren’t at all the sort of man
To deal in polysyllables.
With plain, lace-value terms you’d smack
At Lang. You never raised a fuss
Or gave the Chair a nut to crack
With words like “disingenuous.”
A formidable epithet
That drives sophisticated dons
To agonies of fume and fret
And editors to lexicons.
Professors erudite and bald
In accents hoarse with rage discuss
The infamy of him who called
Their Mungo “disingenuous.”
A chap may dull a spade a spade,
And no embittered protest chance;
These ponderous words have many a shade
Of subtle meaning—or nuance.
And academic pundits sense,
Wliat’s scarce as clear to you or us,
Calumnious malevolence
Conveyed in “disingenuous.”
George, leave these jointed terms and long,
Lifts from the Latin language, too,
To gents who know the inmost “strong”
Thereof —or tell the world they do.
Soon shall the bells their version give,
I seem to hear them chiming thus:
“Was Ful —ler hyp—ersens—itive
Or Mun —go dis —ingen—uous?”
N.S.W.
IFORD.


9
**»>
1
O
m
*6
a*?
(((
■ss
1
met
mmmm
ft
Finest materials, smart patterns
plus real pyjama comfort
CORRECT cut and comfortable fit in
your sleeping suit are matters of
vital importance “ Pelaco ” comfort
,iA A #
means sound, refreshing sleep. Insist
on “Pelaco” pyjamas.
Pelaco Guaranteed Pyjamas are correctly cut
and faultlessly tailored —roomy across the chest
and seat, roomy in armholes and sleeves. But
with all their freedom and comfort they’re smart.
Smart in style; smart in patterns and material.
Call at your nearest Mercer’s. See the new
season’s Pelaco Pyjamas. Newest materials,
newest patterns —and every garment guaranteed.
m
'T^ia.r'oc'yv/eec^
SHIRTS, COLLARS ane£
PYcJAMAS
Pelaco Ltd., Richmond, Victoria and all States
i 3
Z,


tref
•clw
Ř
©
R
Look (n the Trademark 1 A genu Everywhere.
Write for Illustrated Catalogue.
The Ever-Ready Co. (Gt. Britain) Ltd.
163 Pitt Street, Sydney
The Federal Mutual
Insurance Company of Australia, Limited.
FIRE, MARINE AND ACCIDENT.
Licensed to accept liability under Workmen’s Compensation Act 1926.
AGENTS WANTED.
Head (Mice: 129 Bitt Street, Sydney.
« RAWNSLEY MOSS, Managing Director.
Victorian Branch: 360-66 Collins Street, Melbourne.
H. L. CARROLL, Manager.
Queensland Branch: Federal Mutual Chambers, Queen Street, Brisbane.
NORMAN M. MAIR, Manager,
South Australian Branch: 36 Grenfell Street, Adelaide.
E. M. MINOGUE, Manager.
SUPPORT THIS PURELY AUSTRALIAN COMPANY.
R. A. MANZIE, General Manager.
Every Horseman Knows
Jack Wieneke, who
has been connected
with horses all his
life, and when it
comes to saddles
knows what a horse-
man requires for every
purpose. My cus-
tomers keep me so
busy making saddles
for them nowadays I
have no time left for
riding like I used to.
u
There is no better saddle than the Genuine Wieneke
made personally by me, bearing my signature as a
guarantee.
Write for my latest saddle book.
JACK WIENEKE,
C/O JOHN BRUSH,
371 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY:
ABORIGINALITIES
MADE IN AUSTRALIA
BARNES LINSEED OIL
“Herodot”: The story about the woman
who was hypnotised by a snake is not so
absurd as “The Jumper” seems to think (B.
10/3/’27). “Hypnotised” is a loosely-used
word in connection with snakes to describe
ALL CUT AND DRIED.
MISSIONARY: “Look here, what course do you propose to follow
with me?”
CANNIBAL: “Oh, the usual. You'll come in just after the fish.”
a state into which they reduce their prospect-
ive prey. It is a condition brought about
by fear, in which the subject cannot move,
the paralysis being produced by an inhibition
of muscular movement and co-ordination
through the inactivity of the will caused by
an outside influence. If this is not hypnot-
ism, what is it?
“Yufu”: I agree that the condition
described as snake-“charmed” is fear. In
my wanderings hbout the coastal districts
I have frequently met snakes, but have never
killed one. The reason is that I have been
too scared to move. Always on seeing a
snake close I get sick in the stomach. The
confounded thing fascinates me, and there
is always the thought of death at the back
of my head. Call it cowardice, if you will;
but any snake, no matter how small, scares
me into immobility. I know dozens of other
chaps who suffer in the same way.
“Plain Jane”: Snakes don’t charm birds.
On the other hand, birds harass snakes
badly, though the latter do sometimes catch
an unwary bird. My two youngest children
"ailed me to “so« all the birds.” On looking
I saw what appeared to be the whole of
the birds in the district. They were scream-
ing i.i.griiy, ticking at a 7ft. brown snake.
Though he was so lively that I had a job
to kill him. he never attempted to retaliate
on the birds.
“Bill II.” : Not only snakes but also some
birds of prey can exercise a hypnotic influ-
ence over small victims. At Central Tilba
on the South Coast (N.S.AV.), I saw a
butcher-bird with outstretched neck glaring
balefully at the canaries huddled within a
ten-by-eight aviary. Presently one of the
little songsters, with its drooped wings flut-
tering tremulously, advanced with spasmodic
jerk-like hops towards the mesmerist. It
was snapped to death through the wire-
netting mesh before 1 had time to shove into
the proceedings.
“Sir Spen”: Birds may not come under
the hypnotic influence of snakes, but “Jimmy
Possum” is wrong when he thinks that they
capture the dickies only by coming on them
unaware or where the birds settle down un-
suspectingly within the danger-zone. The
downfall of the bird in the case of the snake
comes about in the same way as when a cat
is on the job. There are two main factors in
the game: the innate curiosity of the visitor
and the power of the cat or snake, as the
case may be, to keep that curiosity aroused.
The cat achieves the purpose with his tail,
the snake with his tongue. AAJiile the bird’s
curiosity is being held by either of these
objects it does not take into account the
gradually decreasing distance between itself
and the approaching enemy. In the case of
the snake, the bird's attention becomes
focused on the elevated head, with its
rapidly-vibrating tongue. The body of the
wriggler glides so gradually and evenly
along as to appear almost motionless, and
thus the reptile is able to get within striking
distance of his prey.
* * •*
“AVerrimee”: Does anybody know the
origin or derivation of “tooroo,” used out
back in the same sense as “so long” or “good-
bye?” It may be abo., though I think it
comes from “touring the towri,” a habit of
some job-hunters of sticking to one bit of
territory, or towri, and going always “around
and around,” known generally as following
“the racecourse track.” It has nothing to
do with “hooroo” or “hooray,” which is just
a corruption of “hurrah.”
* * * *
“Tamornie”: New Guinea natives employ
other material than cane for manufacturing
body armor (B. 10/3/’27). The Kanakas in
the Fillister re Ranges make blankets from
the bark of the
breadfruit-tree. The
bark is pounded
with stones while
immersed in water.
AVhen dry it re-
sembles very coarse
paper. Folded sev-
eral times, a num-
ber of these blan-
kets are hung from
a loose cord about
the neck and bound
close to the body
They are impervi-
ous enough to ren-
der the wearer
fairly safe from
arrow wounds, but
at close quarters
offer poor resist-
ance to the 151 b.
and 201 b. pig-
spears. Further
north, in the same
range, I have seen
a heart - shaped
hardwood shield
hung on the back
to protect the
wearer from rear
attack or when in
retreat. The frontal
shield is a massive
affair, and is usually discarded in the latter
case.
“Nanga Minnie”: Humping Matilda in
n.-w. Queensland, I drifted into a wayside
pub. Over a pot of beer I got into conver-
sation with another wayfarer, ajid we dis-
cussed the chances of making a living in the
district at ’roo-sliooting. We had finished a
working agreement to shoot together, when
my newly-made mate butted in with “I’ve
got a cook, you know!” “Do you think we
can do well enough to pay for a cook?” I
asked. “Oh, well, we don’t have to pay her
much,” lie answered. “Oh, I see, she’s your
wife?” “AYell, not exactly; You see me
mate is doing a couple of years for horse-
stealing, an’ I’m just looking after her till
he comes out.”
* * * *
“Sea Nomad”: An experienced recruiter
was recently nonplussed. Eleven “boys” had
volunteered for service, and sat down to
the customary gorge. “I can’t quite make
it out,” mused the recruiter. “Eleven boys
came aboard and eleven are here,. but one
herring-gutted specimen is missing, and a
pot-bellied pig has taken his place.” It
turned out that the herring and the pig
were the Jekyll and Hyde of the same boy.
The enormous meal of rice consumed by the
herring had so altered his appearance as
to make him unrecognisable. The native’s
power of extending his stomach is pheno-
menal. The pot-bellied youngsters train
themselves on bananas. After hard times
especially the quantity of food a native can
LAST THOUGHTS.
“I wonder what I'll do about my waskin’ an' ironin’ till the missus
turns up.”
and does consume is unbelievable. Billy
Turnbull, of Hicks Island, played the double
cross on this fact when a swarm of drought-
stricken abos. canoed across to him from
the mainland cadging for tucker. He gave
them a daily ration of rice uncooked, and
advised them to eat it so and when again
hungry to take a good drink of water. Black
Brother complied, and when hunger pecked
again the water swelled the rice and gave
him the eomfortably-full sensation he loves.
The abos. put it down to the white man’s
magic, but it carried them through till the
drought broke.
* * * *
“J.D.C.” : If “Maypee” (B. 3/3/'27) could
not do better with the knife at marking lambs
than 2<X) an hour he’d be chased out of any
fair-sized slieepyard. When putting up his
record he must have been using the earpliers
as well as the knife. “Four operations on
a ram and two on a ewe” are no part of the
knife-man’s job; two on the ram and one on
the ewe completes his list. One second and
a half is more than ample in which to dock
a ewe, and six seconds is quite sufficient
to attend to a ram. Allowing for the usual
sex average (52 ewes to 48 rams), this will
work out about nine ewes and eight rams
per minute, which is very close to 1000 an
hour and is comparatively easy-going.
“Marker”: No cliaffcutter is required to
mark 1000 lambs in an hour. An erstwhile
manager of Evesham, Longreach (Q.), is
credited with that record, and in addition
he put on the age-mark (a front quarter)
with the knife. The lambs were drafted
from their mothers, and five men caught and
held them.
“Borom” : Aeroplanes have been used for
spraying crops in the U.S.A. for six or seveu
years past. The first experiment was made
in 1920 with a converted military ’plane, and
it was so successful that since then the idea
has been extended. During the last few
years the cotton crops have been so treated
in order to rid them of the boll-weevil. At
the present time there are districts in some
of the southern cotton-growing States in
which growers have formed associations to
purchase aeroplanes and engage pilots to
work them. One use to which the machines
might possibly be put in our own country is
that of attacking rabbits where practicable;
areas might be cleaned up in an hour which
otherwise would require weeks of hard work.
* * * *
“Te AY.”: AVax matches were a scarce
commodity on ’wayback stations in the early
days. One bushman’s plan of economising
them was to set alight a dry piece of the
spongy-white fungus known as “punk,” and
bury it in sand or light soil, where it would
smoulder for a long time and could be used
as a kindler. This fungus is found growing
on trees and fallen logs. moist it
can be cut into smooth sections, which make
a fair smoothing strop for a razor. Another
instance of pioneers’ thrift in the match line
was the long strips of carefully-folded paper,
stuck in jars, by which lamps, pipes, etc.,
were lit from the kitchen fire. Lucifer
matches were imported in japanned tin
boxes containing 250, and were used with
as much economy and respect as if they had
been made in Heaven.
“Hamer”: ASydney newspaper mentioned
a dog in a mining town which carried round
the plate in church bn Sunday; but the most
religious dog I have known was a collie
belonging to my grandfather. After break-
fast everv morning Rover trooped in with
the rest of the household for morning
prayers, squatting on his haunches in
reverential quietude during the reading of
the lessons. When the prayers came, his
front legs went down and his head dropped
on his left paw with his eyes closed. He
joined in the Lord’s Prayer with a
murmur which was a very good imita-
tion of High Church intoning. He re-
mained quiet, too, for the Benediction,
CHARITY BEGINS AT HOME.
THE PARSON: “And you had prayers for rain
every morning at your home in England
Well, well, I never heard of that in my
time there.”
THE POMMY: “Ah, hut, you see, my old
bloke was in the umbrella business."
but, that over, sprang to life as relieved as
most of us, and, going the round of the crowd,
offered his paw in turn to everybody down
to the odd-jobs-man and gardener, apparently
as a sign of Christian love and forgiveness.
Then he dashed out joyously to tight the good
fight with the dog next door, the consistency
or his fighting engagements being the next
most remarkable thing to his religious habits.
THE GOLD THEY MISSED.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
They’re raking through the heaps again,
Heaps raked a hundred times before,
Dn flats where gathered eager men
In ninety-three and ninety-four.
Into the shakers week by week
By feeble hands the dirt is flung,
And tremblingly the old men seek
The gold they missed when they were
young.
Youth lends no more its splendid aid,
Nor comes bright hope his spell to cast.
No more are glorious chances weighed;
Their dreams are mostly of the past.
No more they look for wondrous gains,
In minor keys their songs are sung,
Contented now to find the grains
Of gold they missed when they were young.
Gully and patch the veterans tread,
As in the first, so at the last.
For men must work though hope be dead,
And men must live though strength be
past.
And still, and ever, must the old
Go down the ladder, rung by rung,
And tired eyes must seek the-gold
They left behind when they were young.
AAffien youth has left me, come what must,
I shall not grumble or complain.
I shall not reckon fate unjust,
Nor shall I deem my quest in vain
If I my final debts to pay
Can find the grains of gold among
The tailings that I threw away
In the brave days when I was young.
w.a.
OSCAR WALTERS.
“Bill Bowyang” : It is true, as “Up North”
(B. 3/2/’27) says, that the sting of a 'ray
causes rotting of
bone and tissue,
but there is little
danger of serious
results following if
the barb is handled
1 roperly when it is
left sticking in the
flesh. It should
be pushed right
through the tissue,
in the same way as
Binghi’s barbed
spear. Should, how-
ever, it be with-
drawn, there is
likelihood of am-
putation or death
following through
poisoning. Some
years ago a man at
Bowen (Q.) was
slashed on a leg by
the tail of a sting-
ray. Those who
were with him
jerked the barb out
of the flesh, and
left a jagged wound
filled with minute
particles of bone
from the serrated
sides of the barb.
The man under-
went several op-
erations in Bowen
and Townsville
hospitals to have
the particles of the
barb removed. In
the meantime, por
tion of the bone in
his leg decayed, and
it took six months’
battling on the part of the cleverest doctors
m N.Q. to save the limb.


World’s Greatest Motoring Feat
Major H. O. D. Segrave one of England’s foremost drivers has astounded the world by driving his
24-cylinder (dual engines) 1000 h.p. “Sunbeam” over a flying mile at Daytona Beach (U.S.A.) at the
phenomenal Speed of over 205 Miles per hour
The sectional drawing showing disposition of engine, gears, etc., will interest motorists. The car is 23i feet long and weighs about 3 tons
SPECIALLY BUILT
TO ATTACK WORLD’S
SPEED RECORDS .
REAR 500 H.P 12 CYU
AERO ENGINE
28- GALLON
PETROL TANK.
REAR ENGINE
RADIATORS
■■
ptJNLQA
■'' -' I - ?
. 1 •I s '’V* " i, • •
- r
Jj:L i,;
A.\ K <
~ ‘ * s ,
f: -•■'■ '' -
Oja
«
*H.e 03 <
aluminium: shell
MAIN
CLUTCH
CHAIN
DRIVE
3-SPEED
GEAR EOX
FRONT 500 H.P. 12 CYL
AERO ENGINE
FRONT ENGINE
RADIATOR
AIR
COWLS
¥\
ajvww
OUNIo
If
S»S
STARTING CLUTCH
REDUCTION
ENGINE
COUPLING
SHAFT
LEVEL GEARS
TRANSMISSION
GEARS
F.W. DRAKES
It i this chassis sketch of the
1,000 ft.p. Sunbeam racer the
disposition <of the fore and aft
engines and their radiators
and the lay-out of the trans-
mission are plainly shown.
DUNLOP TYRES
and Dunlop well-base rims were used on the “Sunbeam” and played an important part in this remarkable feat.
It is interesting to note that the advent of the Dunlop Tyre in 1888 subsequently made motoring possible
an( J that for 39 years “Dunlop” has set the world’s standard for Quality, Construction and Service.
Fit “Dunlop” and you will be satisfied! * * * .All Garages can supply.
DUNLOP RUBBER CO. of Aust. Ltd.
ALL STATES
AND N.Z.


The Largest Batteries in the
Commonwealth.
IMMSI
11
i
T&IS
jig
SiSfMlitii
rhrrSi ... .Ml'* *_.. L 3
hi""" 1
j&pUiaM ,„, mmkt^m^
mm
m
mmm
'&A
mm ■ i mm
A
rnffW
il
PHILLIP STREET SUB-STATION, SYDNEY.
The inset photographs show por-
tions of three Tudor Batteries
installed in the Sydney and
Melbourne Municipal Electrical
Systems.
Country House and Farm Lighting
Batteries, as made by the Tudor
Accumulator Co., Ltd., are de-
signed and built upon exactly the
same engineering principles as
the largest and most important
batteries for public-supply under-
takings.
Where Reliability and Efficiency
are Essential, engineers specify
TUDOR BATTERIES.
—r^'
Tf'JW
B®ilf sl
■w . ,
Hi}»f ‘ v...................il
r - r
:■?: *F" ! *
Hn
»
; ggg .. , „
BipSlis ni&:.-,-,..., - .. ■
r-~» gsfi£SF-' : d ..
*m i
n
HMFFERNAN LANE SUB-STATION, MELBOURNE .
■
n*
mm
\
CASTLEREAGH STREET SUB-STATION, SYDNEY.
TUDOR BATTERIES are supplied
exclusively with
DELCO-LIGHT
plants by
Messrs. Warburton, Franki, Ltd.,
Sydney.
Messrs. Warburton, Franki, Ltd.,
Melbourne.
Messrs. Parsons & Robertson, Ltd.,
Adelaide.
Messrs. W. F. & E. A. Stewart,
Launceston.
And with
plants by
Messrs. Dangar, Gedye, Ltd., Sydney.
For each of the above plants a special exclu-
sive type of TUDOR BATTERY is sup-
plied, specially designed to meet the individual
requirements of the plants.
TUDOR BATTERIES ARE
MADE IN ENGLAND.
Sttd.gr ACCUMULATORS


sXv
Y,
“More than One Million Letters...!”
“Approximately one million letters have been
produced by it to date—this apart from a
small house journal”....
This statement from an Australian user is a
glowing tribute to the power of Direct Mail
Advertising produced on the Multigraph.
Not only actual typewritten letters, but also
pamphlets, booklets, blotters, envelope stut-
ters, folders, cards, circulars can all be
Multigraphed quickly, cheaply, PRIVATELY.
The proven ability of Direct Mail Advertis-
ing to build business is set out in our free
booklet “This P»usiness of Advertising.”
Write our nearest address for a copy.
Stott & Underwood, Ltd.,
9-11 O’Connell Street, Sydney.
91-93 William Street, Melbourne.
207 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
21 Grenfell Street, Adelaide.
55 William Street, Perth.
't
MUL TfGRAPH
THESE FIRMS
USE THE
MULTIGRAPH:
Civil Service Stores.
Melbourne Tramways
Board.
Australasian Films,
Ltd.
Lewis Berger & Sons.
T. M. Burke Pty., Ltd.
•*X2X”: If a poisoned dog recovered after
having been treated with bluestone (B.
10/3/27), it was because its system was
strong enough to throw off the effects not
only of the poison bnt of the alleged anti-
dote as well. Bluestone not only possesses
no antidotal properties bnt has actually
toxic ones itself, and is in some ways a
corrosive substance. Most of the poisons
which are used for poison-baits are vege-
table alkaloids, and there is not one of them
for which bluestone would be an antidote:
“R.R.”: A visitor from Christchurch
DLL.) to a Canterbury farm took a great
fancy to his host’s cat, and she was duly
presented to him. On the day of departure,
puss was boxed up and the journey began:
15 miles by motor-launch round Adderley
Heads and across the harbor to Lyttelton;
five miles by train to Christchurch; three
miles by taxi to a residential suburb. Next,
day she was back on the farm, having evi-
dently travelled all night, per road, round
the head of the harbor and over the hills
to home. She had never been on the road
before, nor even off the farm. How did she
do it? The only clue is that her mother had
travelled that way, on top of a load of furni-
ture, when the farmer bought the property.
HACK AN’ FORTH,
"Ah, Mr. Gumseed, we don't know what is ahead of us.”
Wo, pas son; and if ’ee don’t ’op over that fence party quick
’ee’ll he s’prised to find what's behind ’ee, too.”
“Pick”: At readily interpreting signs the
average bushman is an expert. When Joe
Callaghan, after a day’s boundary-riding on
the out-station runs of Brinagee (N.S.W.),
returned to his hut, a symbolic message had
been left him by the overseer. Numbers of
white pebbles and one black one trailed
behind a dried sheep’s head. Joe’s dripping-
tin stood beside, in front a shear-blade
pointed stationwards, and at the rear lay a
dog-chain. When Joe next day mustered his
paddocks of fats and drove them into the
woolshed, he learned that he had correctly
slierlocked his instructions. Droving cattle
through Gundaroo, we struck branch roads
with cattle-pads that we decided were almost
sure to mislead our cook coming far back
with the camp outfit. We threw a nosebag-
on the track to be followed; and travelled on
with the hornies. A windstorm later removed
the bag, but the camp-poisoner read its trail
in the dust, took the correct route, and
headed us before tucker time. And when
our gathering of teamsters found the usual
crossing-place over the Towamba impassable
through a washaway and had to turn back
to the last camping-ground, we cut two
scarfs in a tree by the roadside and nailed
crossed twigs over the higher one. Our
mates, arriving the following day, read the
sign and saved miles of weary pulling by
deviating to the upper ford.
A * * *
“A.W.” : All these wonderful dogs don't live
in the bush. During the recent heat-wave a
collie-dog came into our furniture and
crockery shop, and looked around carefully.
It was driven out repeatedly, but retuxmed.
As the salesman at last advanced with a
threatening look in his eye, the dog polled
out a basin from the stock, licked the dry
bottom, and then looked up at the man inter-
rogatively. He got his drink.
* * * *
“Kerys” : Maoriland is becoming perturbed
over the prevalence of sharks in waters that
until quite recently were considered free
from the horrors. The fact that most of the
Dominion’s popular beaches are flat and hard
as tables, thus involving a risk of the sharks
being stranded if they follow in the wake of
a breaking wave, has heretofore induced
bathers to regard the peril of attack as non-
existent. But fishermen report a great num-
ber of the pests within harbor waters, and
a party which recently put down a chain
lino with four baited hooks had a quartet
of the monsters hooked in a few minutes.
Three got away, and the fourth when hauled
aboard a small launch was of such girth that
he was hastily measured and put overboard,
as the craft threatened to overturn with the
violence of his protests, backed as they were
by a length of over 12 feet.
* * * *
. “Gouger” : A large area of country south
of the Escape River, Cape York Peninsula, is
practically uninhabited by blacks, for it is
mostly barren sandstone covered by the
accursed “turkey bush” scrub. A stray lizard,
a bandicoot’s nest and a handful of birds in
the widely-scattered patches of jungle are
its only occasional signs of life. There is
not even a dingo-track across its face. But
Binghi is scared to
death of its little
red men. These
myth dwarfs have
the power of fas-
cinating a man
until his dizzy mind
makes him an easy
prey. They move
noiselessly as the
breath of death
amongst the under-
growth ; a man is
only aware of their
presence when he
is impelled to turn
and gaze into little
round eyes that are
as hard as and
glare like marbles
of chipped crystal.
The women are as
small as well-grown
children but per-
fectly formed, with
little round breasts.
Lithe of body, they
can run like the
wind, and are very
cruel. Their skin
is black with a
pronounced r e <1
tinge, like the sand-
stone on the red
hills. These people
inhabit more par-
ticularly the coast
behind the marine
landmark, Pudding
Pan Hill, from
whi c h Kennedy
gazed over the cruel
country that was
to be his death-
place; Somewhere
behind the desolate
hill lies the most-
t a Iked- of dead
man’s secret of the
North. A party
of prospectors entered there, and years
afterwards the blacks told how all but 01*3
had been speared. He reached civilisation
with a specimen of gold, only to die of fever
and spear wounds.
“Mora”: A run outside Gunnedah
( N.S.W.) boasted two sheep-dogs, Sandy and
Percy, always at loggerheads. Prior to last
shearing Percy became apparently a social
success among the canines of the district.
At four o’clock each afternoon lie disappeared
and did not show up again until about ten
o’clock next morning. This went on for
about two months, then Sandy got mixed
up with the reaper and binder. The result
was a badly-lacerated leg, causing total inca-
pacity. That afternoon Percy stayed at
home, and did so for the six weeks his mate
took to recover. He was on deck always
when wanted. On the first day Sandy helped
me to muster the mob Percy resumed his
wanderings, and has been a regular nightly
visitor abroad since.
IN THE DEBTORS’ PRISON.
“I have coins to briny you a little comfort.”
"liver or smokes?”
“T.M.”: How does a goanna dig his hole
(B. 3/3/’27) ? I have watched him at work
times out of number in the Queensland bush.
He loosens the earth with his front claws
and thrusts it back with his hind claws.
Meanwhile his head and neck are thrown
over on to his back —that is how he gets
his encuinbrance out of the way. All the
earth is passed backward underneath the
goanna’s belly.
“Biro”: A goanna never digs a deep hole.
He bores into an ants’ nest only far enough
to provide a decent shelter and incubator,
using his front claws and working in a
leisurely fashion. Also, all goannas are not
web-footed. Some have lived on land so long
that they are scarcely amphibious at all. For
all that, it is impossible to drown a goanna,
for he can lie under water for hours at
a stretch.
* * * *
“Roback” : Among the Manus tribe in the
Admiralty Islands (N.G.) there is a belief
that a small bird is hatched from the eggs
of the turtle. This idea no amount of white
man’s logic can shake. Old men of the
tribe say they have checked the phenomenon
time and again. They aver that when the
turtle deposits her hundred or so round,
soft-skinned eggs on the shore of some sandy
isle, she includes in the clutch half a dozen
oblong ones. The belief is that turtles are
hatched from the round eggs and birds from
the oblong. They call the bird drilikarat,
and in appearance it is like the common
sandpiper, save that it swims like a duck.
Yet it is not web-footed —so they say.
* * * *
“Black Tracker”: A Mount Lofty (S.A.)
lady farmer has a sow that gave birth to 13
piglets. One night heavy rain set in, and
as the sty was built on low-lying ground,
the flood waters flowed through it. Fully
expecting to see the young litter drowned,
the lady got a pleasant surprise. One cor-
ner of the sty was high enough to keep dry,
and on this cramped space the mother had
carried and placed, pyramid fashion, the
entire family. Fight were packed like sar-
dines on the ground; five were placed on
top in the intervening spaces, and three on
top of them; the mother was standing in
the water trying with her grunts to pacify
them.
* * * *
“Birre Gurra” : We were on the road with
some drought-stricken sheep when The
Bulletin arrived with “Saaedi’s” par.
<24/2/’27) about 500 free-moving wethers
and two quid a day. The boys hanker
for “Saaedi’s” blood. We had that day
punched SOOO parched, hungry sheep over
nine miles of desolate, dusty stock-route on
to the only water in three clays’ travel. We
had started from the camp at daylight, and
it was dark when we got the sheep into
the break. Certainly we had the clear sky
that “Saaedi” bleats of, though we may not
have appreciated it as we should have, when
we panted in the inadequate shade of some
borees on our dinner-camp and cursed the
flies and ants. And our payment was the
award rate of 11s. Bd. a day. “Drovin’!”
snorted a fed-up shepherd as he laboriously
cleared away the gidya pebbles from where
his weary carcase was to repose for a few
hours, “for Gawd’s sake let someone write
and tell that bloke what drovin’ is.”
* * * #
“Manners Street”: “Bilhais's” snake (B.
3/3/’27) is evidently the bunda bunda
(“bandy bandy” of the bush-folk), a small,
slim variety, often found abroad at night.
The creature is banded yellowish on a dark
background, as a rule, although the color
scheme is sometimes more distinctly white
on black. Although a member of the Elnpi-
dae family, of evil repute, the “bandy” is
harmless to man. Fifty-seven species are
found in this country, but some of them are
very rare; in fact, only known from single
specimens.
“Bunkie”: The moonlight snake is the
“bandy bandy.” I captured one and gave it
to the late Professor Fox. The Professor
and the Sydney Museum agreed that the
quantity and quality of the venom are norm-
ally insufficient to cause death, but treat-
ment should follow the bite as a precaution-
ary measure.
“A.C.W.”: The question of moonlight
snakes having been referred to a select com-
mittee sitting in Murphy’s pub, the follow-
ing finding was arrived at unanimously:
“That moonlight snakes are decidedly venom-
ous provided you drink enough of them.”
* * * *
“Quintus the Fifth”: Rainbow, the black
boy, put on too many airs to suit the white
stockmen, so when Lacey, hidden by thick
timber, overheard him getting the roughest
side of the boss’s tongue, he spread the news,
and at camp the men gathered for a bit of
fun. “Hullo, Rainbow,” said Lacey. “The
boss gave you a proper dressing down to-
day.” “He didden,” bluffed Rainbow, who
thought no one had heard. “Well,” said
Lacey, “I heard him call you a blank, use-
less, big, black, blanky blank. What do you
call that?” “An’ I called him a blank, use-
less, big, white, blanky blank,” retorted Rain-
bow. “Oh, I didn’t hear that bit. What
did the boss do then?’’ “Nothin’,” replied
Rainbow in disgust; “you think me dam’
fool say it out loud?”
CARTING APPLES.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Oli, kings may g» a-riding
In gilded coach of state;
In swift gondolas gliding
Venetian Doges sate ;
Home from the wars triumphant
Great generals are borne;
On scented down recumbent
Ride courtesans foresworn.
But when the south blows softly
On mellow autumn days,
I want no carriage lofty—
Give me my orchard ways ;
I pick the rip'ning apples
With healthy outdoor zest;
Sun-gold, my sleek team dapples,
And I, in gingham dressed,
Have pleasure past kings’ knowing ;
Perched on the waggon rail.
Enthroned ’mid apples glowing.
Itose-striped and greenly pale,
In wafts of spicy sweetness,
I drink their perfume in ;
.Mine is that rich completeness
Contented toilers win.
VICTORIA.
EMEL.


THE
PORT OF HULL
for reception of
Frozen Meat exported to
Great Britain.
Cold Storage, 890,000 Cubic Feet.
Prompt Despatch in Refrigerator
Waggons to All Parts of the
Country by Express Trains of the
London and North-Eastern Railway
AUSTRALIAN SHIPPERS arc invited to
inquire for further information at the offices
of Messrs. BURNS, PHILP & CO., LTD.,
10 Bridge Street, Sydney, and Branches.
L.N.E.R.
Largest Dock-owning Railway in
the World.
m
;;%U
GLOBE
K 2:
TIMBER MILLS C?
E&. FLINDERS ST ADELAIDE 2?
TIMBER. , JOINERY,
GALVANIZED IRON
y'K ‘ Lowesh Prices.Highesh Quality, Prompt’ Service
>
3N&,
CYMA
KNOWN ALL OVER THE WORLD
AS THE BEST TIME KEEPER
4.
SOLD BY ALL JEWELLERS
THE MAN
ON THE LAND'S
PAGE
MODERN STOCK FEEDING.
“Gadfly”: Although 25 years are but a
brief span in the history of nations, the last
quarter of a century, thanks to the patient
investigations of scientists, has revolution-
ised our knowledge of animal nutrition and
stock feeding. The development in these
fields is comparable with that of the motor-
car, the aeroplane and radio. Yet, while the
community in general has been prepared to
accept the advances in, say, traction, the
farmer has, generally speaking, failed to
realise the importance of adopting the more
efficient methods of stock-feeding resulting
from the researches of experts in animal
nutrition. It is just as absurd to feed stock
in the 1900 fashion as it would be to use a
motor-car designed in that same period.
The first discoveries, some 25 years ago,
were that for efficient and profitable produc-
tion, live-stock must bo given the right kind
of raw materials in their food, and in proper
proportions. The terms “balanced rations”
and “feeding standards” have become common
enough, but the things themselves are little
practised. Later researches have brought
into prominence the importance of the qual-
ity ot the proteins, the role of minerals
(common salt, calcium, phosphorus, iodine)
and, chiefly in the last decade, the relation
of the vitamines to the feeding of farm
animals, as well as humans.
Of the five vitamines so far known (A,
grow T tli; B, anti-neurotic; C, anti-scorbutic;
D, anti-rachitic; X, reproduction) only two
—that is, A, which is essential for growth,
and D, in the absence of which rickets,
especially in young animals, develops—are
likely to be deficient in the rations fed to
livestock. Animals kept in the dark or out
of direct sunlight are more susceptible to
vitamine D deficiency ; sunlight (ultra-violet
rays) even cures troubles which are com-
monly put down as ldieumatism and
paralysis.
For the farmer these recent developments
emphasise the importance of lucerne (or
other legume) hay for livestock. Well-cured
lucerne hay is rich in protein of the right
kind, contains abundant calcium, and is a
good source of vitamines A and D. which,
as said just now, are the only vitamines
likely to be lacking in the rations fed to
livestock.
SWINE FEVER AGAIN.
“Dingo” ; After an absence of some years
swine fever has again made its appearance
in the County of Cumberland and on the
slopes of the Blue Mountains (N.S.W.).
The outbreak has been traced to two con-
signments of Victorian pigs sold at the Home-
busli abattoirs.
With a mortality ranging from 40 to 90
per cent., swine fever is easily the deadliest
of porcine diseases. It cannot be trans-
mitted to any animal other than the pig—
not even to man. No form of preventive
inoculation has been discovered which will
lessen the losses it causes;' at least, none
that can be used under natural conditions.
Its virus is ultra-visible and is spread by
contact between the diseased and healthy
animals, the feet and clothes of attendants,
offal from slaughter-houses and contaminated
railway trucks and carts. The period of
incubation is from five to 10 days. Loss
of appetite, great dejection, hanging of the
tail and ears, hurried respiration, high tem-
perature (to 106 deg.), vomiting, weakness
of the loins, constipation followed by scour-
ing and a purple skin-rash are the most
apparent symptoms. Affected animals may
die in a few hours or linger for weeks.
Slight attacks with subsequent recovery are
common, but the recovered pig acts as a
“carrier” and continues to spread the dis-
ease, hence killing out is the only reliable
method of cleaning up an outbreak. Con-
tagious pneumonia and necrotic enteritis
frequently appear in conjunction with swine
fever.
Unfortunately many pig-owners are conceal-
ing outbreaks as far as possible, and dis-
posing of animals from infected styes. Such
tactics, of course, hasten the spread of the
disease, the eradication of which promises
to be a long, painful, and expensive process.
THE DRIED FRUITS INDUSTRY.
“Croesus”: Mr. H. W. Gepp has, with a
colleague, been through the dried fruits dis-
tricts making the inquiry that the Prime
Minister promised to have made into the
industry’s unsatisfactory position. Of the
main crop of currants, lexias and sultanas,
only the last mentioned are bringing decent
prices; the others are being sold at less
than the cost: of production. It is to be
hoped that Gepp will find the remedy or
remedies for the industry’s troubles, but it
is more earnestly to be hoped that he will
not recommend the granting of the export
bounty that all interested are clamoring for
without laying down very stringent condi-
tions to be attached to the grant. It may
be that a bounty would be a justifiable con-
cession at present, but certainly not with-
out the stipulations (1) that those connected
with the industry must do their part
towards reducing the gap between selling
price and production cost, and (2)
that if granted it should be only while some
definite plan (decided on beforehand) to
stabilise things is being brought to fruition.
- During the past five years the finding of
overseas markets has been talked about, but
not resolutely attempted; grub infestation
of the fruit has been the subject of confer-
ences, but nothing much of a practical nature
was done until Myers, tin- entomologist,
who has yet to succeed, was brought out
last mouth; the Canadian reciprocal trade
agreement has put a topic into growers’
mouths, but has not been taken advantage of
sufficiently to put much money into their
pockets; the grading and typing of fruit
has long been the subject of complaint from
London representatives, yet to-day 10 boxes
have to be opened to show a true sample,
while the Greeks can do it with a handful;
and, finally, though the exercise of rigid
economy by packing-sheds and a complete
re-organisation of their system of finance is
a crying need, little has been done in that
SOT STOPPING ’LONG O' SHE.
OBSEQUIOUS GROCER : “Better make it 2lb. —you’re sure to need a little extra with the
Duke and Duchess here.”
CUSTOMER: “Lor' bless you, Mister Cobble jack, lb ain’t a-puttin ’ of ’em up!”
direction during all the years of the
depressed period.
At none of the conferences held since
prices slumped has the real position of the
industry been admitted. In point of fact
it is an unsound industry. Bearing in
mind that practically the whole of the fruit
is grown for a market on the other side of the
world—SO per cent, is the export proportion
of one fruit and 85 per cent, of each of the
other two, and the bulk of it goes to the
British Isles —it is obvious that the industry
is an artificial one unless the growing distret
has natural or other sound advantages for
producing. In point of fact, Australia has
no advantage in climate or soil over its
main competitor, Greece; it is twice the
distance from the market, and its labor costs
are four times greater. Production, there-
fore, as far as it is carried on for the Lon-
don market, should be restricted. The
grower gets a big price for the small amount
of his fruit that he sells in Australia, ft
would be a much sounder business for him
to cut down the growing of fruit for over-
seas and substitute for it the production of
one or more of those commodities which
Australia is now r compelled to import.
For instance, this country imports over
£2,000.000 worth of tobacco a year; there
would be nothing artificial about supplying
that demand. Or if none of the many
varieties of tobacco, nor of the special
crosses that could be bred,.were found suit-
able, cotton or rice or lemons for citric-acid,
or one of a dozen other commodities now
imported, would fill the bill. It would not
be necessary to rely on any one single crop
—mixed farming has proved a valuable
safeguard in many parts of America. Grow-
ers who went baldheaded for vines, rooting
out prunes, apricots and the like, letting
almonds, pears and olives rot on the ground,
and refusing to consider any sidelines,
could make up for a part of the decrease
in production of vine-fruits by returning to
suitable side-lines. The area of land that
would have to find new crops is not large,
and a further proportion of the decrease could
be compensated for by growers supplying
their own districts with chaff, and other
fodder, potatoes, onions and other goods
which, owing to the concentration on vines,
are now brought in from outside —even
green vegetables and the supposedly übiquit-
ous egg are mostly imported to these Murray
settlements.
If the granting of an export bounty were
made conditional on a steady substitution of
another suitable crop or crops for part of
the vines, a very short time would see
prosperity in the now unsound districts,
a desirable elasticity would be imparted to
the industry, and the Australian public
might be relieved of the burden of paying
excessive prices for dried fruit to make up
for the low prices realised overseas. A
further advantage would be that, if an
alternative With a reasonable chance of suc-
cess were chosen, the banks would begin to
function again in the districts—they have
buttoned down completely on dried fruits.
PROTECTION OF FENCES.
“Bidgee”: A comparatively little-known
method of protecting fences from fire is by
the use of an ordinary blow-lamp. Even
when a fence has been protected by plough-
ing on both sides and the grass burned in
between, it is not safe for long. In dry
weather, dead grass, seeds, dry leaves, roly-
poly. “umbrellas,” etc., are blown along
until arrested by netting or the splintery
surface of old posts. When the fire comes,
sparks or burning leaves and twigs may be
blown into the mass of inflammable material
accumulated along the fence, posts are burnt
out, and wire and netting practically ruined.
As it is a slow and difficult process to rake
or shovel the rubbish away from the fence,
owing to its being twisted through the meshes
and caught in the splinters, and as it will
eventually blow back again even if removed,
the blow-lamp provides an easy and fairly
rapid means of disposing of it safely. If
two men with lamps walk on opposite sides
of the fence applying the flame at the same
point, they can clear a long stretch in a
short time. Of course it is advisable to do
the job at night, or early and late on calm
days, when the fire won’t run. The work
can be done effectively even if the grass
is green or the weather slightly damp,
though it may then take a little longer.
Compared with chipping round posts with
a shovel, as is sometimes done, the lamp
will make a much better job in a fraction of
the time. Miles of fencing can be covered
in a night, leaving the line clean and safe
until a fresh lot of litter accumulates. An
ordinary painter's lamp is all that is neces-
sary, and the blast consumes the light debris
so rapidly that posts and netting are quite
unaffected.
BUSH-FIRES.
“Mapee”: At one time, when a Queensland
settler intended to burn off fallen scrub, he
was most particular to give due notice to all his
neighbors, so that they should take precau-
tions. There was then little danger of a tire
getting out of hand. Nowadays all this is
changed, mainly as a result of a case tried in
llerberton (N.Q.) in 1913. A timber mer-
chant had constructed a wooden tramline,
under agreement with a settler, through the
latter's property. When the line was built
it ran close to the edge of some standing
scrub for about half a mile. Later, the settler
felled the scrub, and in due course wanted
to burn it off. Accordingly, lie gave notice
to the timber merchant, as well as to the
surrounding settlers, that he intended to burn
on a certain day, if the weather was favor-
able. The merchant took no steps whatever
to protect his property, and the line was
considerably damaged. lie then sued the
settler for the amount of the damage, includ-
ing loss of time in his timber-hauling opera-
tions while effecting repairs, and won the
case. Nobody actually saw the settler light
the fire, but the Judge held that the fact of
his giving notice of his intention could be
accepted as evidence of his having done so.
and that he was responsible for the result of
liis action.
Since then the knowing settler takes care
to give no hint of his intention to burn, and
usually makes sure of establishing an alibi
by showing himself at the local pub, or some
other place where he is sure to be seen and
recognised, about the time the smoke begins
to rise, some discreet friend having been told
off' to drop a match in the right place and
then get out of sight as quickly as possible.
I low general is this practice is shown by
a conversation which took place on a north-
ern farm not so long ago. One farmer —call
him Jones—had a large strip of felled scrub
‘ripe for the firestick. It lay right along
neighbor Smith’s back boundary. Smith,
having to leave home about noon one hot
day. said to his son, a boy of 16: “Keep
your eyes skinned for tire to-day. boy; old
Jones might set his scrub going.” “She won’t
go up to-day, Father,” answered the boy.
“Jones is at home—l saw him a while ago.”
The present position, following upon that
decision, is very unsatisfactory. It means
that burning off is done furtively, which also
means that a man can take fewer precau-
tions than lie otherwise would personally,
while nobody else can take any at all. It
would be far better if it were made compul-
sory to notify all neighbors.
LAMBS’ WOOL.
“R. E. Combing” : It. is usually supposed
that the term “hosiery” refers only to socks
and stockings, but in the wool trade it is
applied to many other things for both under
,and outer wear. Its manufacture demands
many types of wool, both crossbred and
merino being used, and it is responsible for
the record price paid for greasy wool in
Australia this season—4s4 penee for lambs’
wool in Geelong. This Western Vic. lambs’
wool well merits the pre-eminent reputation
it enjoys throughout the world. It naturally
grows with excellent color, quality and uni-
formity ; also, with a wonderful soft handle
and the elasticity so necessary to hosiery
goods. Furthermore, it is splendidly pre-
pared for market. This last cannot be said
for the N.S.W. lambs’ wool, which comes
down in worse order for buyers’ requirements
than any other class of the staple. Yet no
other class requires more careful treatment.
When once this downy article is baled apd
pressed up., the sorting is 10 times more diffi-
cult and only half as effective. Even tin-
inferior burry lambs’ wool deserves a great
deal more consideration than it gets from
the growers. There is more joy among
buyers over one bale of well-sorted lambs’
wool than over a dozen bales of mixed stuff.
WATERING STOCK IN DROUGHT
TIMES.
“ J.D.C.”: From false motives of economy,
and reliance on rainfall, many landholders
excavate tanks of only two or three thousand
cubic yards’ capacity. In a dry year these
are just about big enough to get the owner
into trouble. For the convenience of stock,
tanks are sunk with a three-to-one batter,
and as this gives a large surface area
it automatically increases the loss by evap-
oration. In hot, windy weather the water
in an unused tank of this type will diminish
almost as rapidly as in one where a fair
number of stock are watering. When sheep
are watering regularly they keep the edge
puddled and the batters trodden hard: in
the unused tank the soil cracks right to the
edge of the water, the ridge of mud pushed
up when sheep are watering is not there,
and the ripples raised by the wind are driven
(Continued on page 31.)


MAXIMUM POWER
Low-cost Operation- —Year-round Profit
V
$ m
i
B
H
mm
mm
: r
H
m
u
ms
■jmmm
jicwnmr
THE most advanced tractor in design, construc-
tion and quality of materials used —that’s
what you get when you buy the six-cylinder
Cletrac 30.
One of the big advantages in the Cletrac 30 is
the draw-bar pounds pull it develops and sustains
in the pulling of heavy loads. The Cletrac 30
establishes a new standard of tractor efficiency in
the high percentage of pounds pull delivered at
the draw-bar.
LOW COST —Cletrac 30 delivers its rated power
with plenty of reserve and with economy of
operation that materially reduces the cost of work
performed.
WEAR-ROUND PROFlT—Cletrac 30 is a
* tractor “stripped for action.’’ Built to handle
the heavier power jobs with speed and certainty
and low operation cost, Cletrac 30 is a money-
maker in road construction of all kinds. It offers
an exceptional combination of ample power and
utmost tractive efficiency. With a total tractive
surface of 1800 square inches on the ground,
Cletrac 30 travels without slippage over soft and
wet spots. Like all Cletracs, it is an all-round,
year-round tractor. Regardless of weather con-
ditions, it can be relied upon absolutely for
efficient performance.
Easy Handling—Easy Steering
CLETRAC steering is accomplished through a compensating differential, using the power of the
motor. The inside track is slowed down and the outside track speeded up. No stopping of
tracks —no waste of power. The pull is maintained on the turns. That is why Cletracs handle their
full load on the turns as efficiently as on the straight away.
Cletrac 30 responds to the slightest touch of the hand on the wheel. It is as easy to steer as a motor-
car. This patented steering mechanism is an exclusive feature found only in Cletrac Crawler Tractors.
Don’t fail to see the Cletracs at Sydney Show.
Three sizes will be exhibited.
Inquire about “Cletrac 75,” which has just been
announced.
It weighs 10 tons.
It develops 75h.p. at the drawbar, with ample
reserve.
It has six-cylinder engine.
It has three speeds forward, one reverse.
It has greater drawbar pull and higher speed than
any tractor on the market.
THE CLEVELAND TRACTOR COMPANY,
16 Hunter Street, Sydney.
Telegrams and Cablegrams: “CRITE,” SYDNEY.
Australian and New Zealand Distributors-
Australian Machinery Co., Ltd.,
371 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
British Standard Machinery Co.,
Bank N.Z. Chambers, George St., Sydney.
Traction Australia Pty., Ltd.,
469 Flinders Street, Melbourne.
Bennett & Fisher, Limited,
Currie Street, Adelaide.
Clet-rac Tractor Agency,
Royal Bank Chambers, Perth.
WRITE OR WIRE FOR LITERATURE AND QUOTATIONS.
Parkinsons (N.Z.), Ltd.,
Wellington.
J. E. Watson & Co., Ltd.,
Invercargill and Dunedin.
PROMPT ATTENTION—RELIABLE SERVICE ASSURED.


SOCIAL PROBLEMS
1 1
5
A
%
W
7
i
cs<
s
/
2i
■v»
m
IS
m
11
P(
I
m
Mat
&
Uc
m
1
!<
tUu&i*
1/
A, having discovered the car of his not-very-humorously-inclined
friend B standing unattended, drives off in it by way of a mild,
practical joke. During the process, however, he has the misfor-
tune to step on the accelerator instead of the brake.
What should A do?
The only possible solution is—
LIGHT AN ABDULLA
Fougasse .
(\BDULLA superb CIGARETTES
TURKISH EGYPTIAN VIRGINIA


(This Prospectus is published fot information only, the whole of the 15b,00° Preference Shares
the present issue having been applied for, and the requirements o ec
Act 1915, consequently, are not fully complied with in this advertisement.!
ABRIDGED PROSPECTUS OF
CHENEYS (AUSTRALIA) LIMITED.
, (Incorporated under the Companies Act 1915 of the State of Victoria.)
Capital £1,000,000
Divided into
400,000 £1 8 per cent. Cumulative Preference Shares
600,000 £1 Ordinary Shares
£400,000
600,000
£1,000,000
Of which fixed
150,000 8 per cent. Cumulative Preference Shares having pi both to on application
cumulative dividend are now offered for subscription, payable ms. pei
and 10s. per share on allotment. . ioritv bo th as to capital and fixed eumula-
-50,000 8 per cent. Cumulative Preference Shares ha\ii g p - existing holders of Preference
five dividend will be offered within four months to the then existing
Shares in proportion to their holdings. , v been allotted to the holders of shares
968 500 Ordinary Shares fully paid up to £1 each have al ■ y
in S. A. Cheney Motors Proprietary Limited, m 11 Aiders of Ordinary Shares in this
86,500 Ordinary Shares of £1 each have been ° ff ered * . , 10s per share on allotment, the
Company' at par, payable 10s. per share on app The D f this issue of 86,500
closing date for application being 11th April, 1. • without remuneration.
Ordinary Shares has been underwritten by Mi. S. A. t neney
Leaving
200 000 8 per cent. Cumulative Preference Shares of £1 each in reserve.
250’,000 Ordinary Shares of £1 each in reserve.
•dßftU the tote ot 2CM1.000 « 8 per cent Cumulative Preference Share, ha, been
written by J. B. Were and Son, 349 Collins Street, Melbourne.
DIRECTORS:
SYDNEY ALBERT CHENEY Chairman, 383 Glenferrie Street, Melbourne.
ARTHUR PHILLIPS (Arthur Phillips, Pe^ c p^“ d J U McOwan^and CoProprietary, Limited, Melbourne,
—
WH.UAM’dtes JORDAN, Director Ohene,, (Auatr.lia), IMH *“4 ***
BANKERS: „
THE ENGLISH, SCOTTISH AND AUSTRALIAN BANK, LIMITED, Collins Street, Melbourne.
SOLICITORS:
ART,,™ PHILLIPS. PEARCE
FLACK AND FLACK, 128 William Street, Melbou ne.
AUDITOR:
RAYMOND E. F. SMITH, of T. L. COLEMAN AND CO., 533 Collins Street, Melbourne.
BROKERS:
J. B. WERE AND SON, 349 Collins Street, Melboirne. Adelaide
GAVIN F GARDNER AND CO., 52 Pine Chambers, Pm Street, Adelaide.
PHILIP PRING AND DOCKER, Pitt and Hunter Streets, Sydney.
SECRETARY (pro tem.) and REGISTERED OKI ICE:
ARCHIBALD D. FARQUHAR, 22 Flinders Street, Melbourne.
Offices in—
NEW SOUTH WALES: William House, William Street, Sydney.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA: Franklin Street, Adelaide.
RIGHTS OF THE HOLDERS OF PREFERENCE SHARES.
Tha Preference Sh.rts confer on the holder.. thereof In reapect of an, prohta of .the Company tvh.e
* .[the raW '***
annum on the Capital fiom time to me p , p 'md arrears of Dividend whethei
(b) To rank in a-winding-up both as regards return, f but not t 0 any further partici-
of an agreement
£•»*’<■ «■*’•» * h « Prete “ e Sh, ' eholdm '
q£ at least three-fourths of the nominal value of the issued
Preference Shares; or , , „ r' pn eral Meeting of the holders
<b > 2* ssrsz
three-fourths of the nominal amount of the issued Preteience onaies. v
Articles of Association.)
DIVIDENDS ON PREFERENCE SHARES.
sfe “ dWd “" “**
liISTING OF PREFERENCE SHARES ON STOCK EXCHANGES.
Application will be made in due course for the listing of the Preference Shares on the Melbourne,
Sydney and Adelaide Stock Exchanges.
ALLOCATION OF PREFERENCE SHARES.
. at r ,f q r v n 000 Preference Shares must be made on the form
.hrttte may pS** “ ■*" ~““
° f ofXe full' Prospectus may be obtained from the above-mentioned Brokers.
EXPENDITURE OF CAPITAL TO BE RAISED BY THE PRESENT ISSUE.
The Capital now being sought is to be utilised to provide additional forking Capital to cope w. .
the Company’s extended operations and expanding business.
OBJECTS OF THE COMPANY.
, , . r ,t t itnitpd lvis been formed to take over the established business of S. A. Cheney
ssra-r.
s.
tributors of Morris Cars and f K South Wales, with the exception of a parcel of Preference
tributors of Morris Cars and
Shares and less than 2000 Ud J ■ on the assembling, sale, and distribution of Morns Care
The Company consequently is caiiying Qf Austjn cars in victoria. Its
will extend’ oveT threeSUtes,' in comparison with its former area of Victoria and the Rivenna.
PAST EARNINGS OF THE PROPRIETARY COMPANY
The renort of Messrs Flack and Flack, Public Accountants, shows the profits of S. A. Cheney
lllL lepuiL L, ~a follow:
£3,311 6
182 2
16,541 16
47,965 4
101,068 6
18,949 2
Motors Proprietary Ltd. to have Arenas jjj OW^ 92
Seventeen months ended 30th June, is
Year ended 30tli .Tune, 1923
Year ended 30th June, 1924
Year ended 30th June, 1920 ..
Year ended 30th June, 1926 .. ••
Six months ended 31st December, 1926
ASSETS AND LIABILITIES.
, o+ofoment of the Assets and Liabilities, as at 31st December, 1926, of S. A. Cheney
The certified statement distributors Proprietary Ltd., F. A. McOwan and Co. Proprietary
Ltd! 1 ! jTranklih Motore Proprietary Ltd. shows a surplus of net tangible assets over liabilities of
£137,630/15/-. . pagh t 0 be received for 150,000 Preference and 86,500 Ordinary Shares,
the lief tangible”assets^dllfafford a cover of £2/9/1 per £1 Preference Share to the 150,000 Preference
Shares now being issued. PRESENT SALES SITUATION.
Durino- 1996 S. A. Cheney Proprietary Company, operating only in Victoria and the Riverini, made
5688 new car deUverms Comnanv’s operations to New South Wales, where a bigger business is
With the extension of the quota . for the enlarged Cheney organisation for
done than in Victoria, < L, . his been estimated at 10,500 Morris and Austin cars and trucks.
- * ehw
New South Wales
South Australia _ ..
T ° tal • • ' tn X' +v, P results of less than four months’ inaugural work in New South
These figures are fiuot f ; orreSTK) tidimL figures are not available for Victoria, but it may be stated
uiaf the n delivmies of M m id's cars and trucks in Victoria for January, February, and March of this year
have reached a total of 99/. PROSPECTS OF THE COMPANY.
. , fnr thp s + a tes of New South AVales and South Australia covering 6020
The contracts already vnt victoria of Morris cars and trucks and Austin ears also to be
Morris cars and trucks, with^- al es 0 f o r the confidence of the management in the Company
s™ is vs* s. -
Ordinary Capital.
,p the flat batters and absorbed by the
racked earth. . ,
During the great drought of 1902 we tried
n desperation to reduce the loss from evap-
,ration in our last tank by putting oil
,n the water. The sheep didn’t like it at
irst but soon got the knack of dipping
ielow the scum when drinking, and the
xperiment promised well —until the first
itrong breeze piled all the oil up on the
ee side of the tank. ■ t ,
Short of putting a roof on, the best method
g to sink the tank with sides nearly perpen-
iicular, using one sloping roadway to re-
move the earth, fence it in solidly, and water
he stock in troughs. The straight sides
educe the surface area considerably, which
neans less evaporation, the wind has not
lie same effect, there is less loss from soak-
iee the stock are not pushing dirt in all
he' time —hence less silt —and the water
s much cleaner to the last drop. Woolly
sheep carry a lot of water out on their
leeces, and this wastage is also avoided by
■he use of troughs. Much of the dirty red
-ip on points and bellies of some Western
dips is mainly attributable to the sheep
having access to water-tanks, and is not
io obvious when the water is pumped for
;hem. Cattle will simply ruin any tank,
awing to their size and weight and habit
jf going right into the water When drinking:
also the last few feet of liquid is not water
at all. The additional expense of pumping
is more than compensated by the water
saved, there is no bogging, tanks require
cleaning less frequently, and all stock will
lo better on clean water.
FOOD VALUE OF NATIVE PLANTS.
“Old High”: The saltbushes, of which
there are several genera and a number of
species, are looked upon as the natural food
for sheep in the Western districts of N. S.
Wales and parts of S. Aus. and Queensland.
There are also certain varieties of native
scrub and trees which have been useful m
keeping stock in drought times, although con-
dition may eventually be lost and signs of
digestive trouble appear, if fed alone. Lhe
best known are kurrajong, wilga, mulga,
myall, willow; others, not so palatable, are
apple, box, rosewood, boree, pine. It lias
to be recognised, however, that these fodder
plants do not provide a balanced ration, and
are not at all suitable for lambing ewes.
Their value can be increased by the addition
of small quantities of grain (4oz. to Boz.
daily), by use of a lick embodying salt,
Epsom salts and molasses, and by feeding
hay. It would be interesting to have the
experiences of readers on the use of this
important group of native plants.
IS TAR-BRANDING NECESSARY?
•‘Bill R.”: “Bidgee’s” assertion that some
detriment to wool is entailed in the practice
of tar-branding may be correct, but with
every other argument of his (B. 01/o/2<)
1 fail to agree. He says not one sheepman
in ten identifies his sheep otherwise than by
the registered earmark. In the first place,
to identify earmarks almost every jumbuck
in the flock has to be handled, whereas by
the tar-brands they may be galloped through
the race; and in the second place nearly
every sheepman is a buyer and seller, and
constantly has in his flocks various earmarks
other than his own. Only the closest scrutiny
will establish ownership by the earmark or
nose brand, but a man on horseback can
pick out by their tar-brands the strange
woollies that have roamed from elsewhere
on to his pastures, and at shearing time the
invariable exchange of the stragglers by
owners of adjacent runs is due to ready iden-
tification by means of the marks on the back.
NATURAL CHANGES IN WOOL
QUALITY.
“J.D.C.”: In exceptionally good seasons,
when sheep are doing well for the whole
12 months, the clip must, as a matter ot
course, show a broader and more strongly -
grown fibre. It is an old axiom among
breeders that “more than half the breeding
goes down their throats, ’ and during the
last two years this truth has been empha-
sised. It is quite possible that during the
next few years many of the N. S. Wales
clips which are now causing so much com-
ment on account of “broadness,” will be con-
siderably fined down for no _ other reason
than shortage of feed. For instance, New
England is world-renowned as a fine-wool
district, but last year, owing to a flush
season, the wail was raised in certain
quarters that that wool was “getting broader
and losing its super standard. ’ This
season has been rather mean up there, and
the result was shown at the Sydney .wool
sales of a few days ago when “this year’s
New England clip shows quality and con-
dition quite up to its general reputation.”
Yet the bulk of this year’s clip came oft
the same sheep as last season’s.
Every year more and more country is
being classed as wheat land, and it is
apparent that if the wheat-farmer is to
eventually have the monopoly of the best
soil and 'climate, we must learn to look for
a considerable alteration in the quality _ of
our wool clip. Already Southern Riverina
is practically all farms except the portions
considered too heavy and wet —a/ad. the
merino won’t do on heavy country, either.
QUEENSLAND SUGAR PROSPECTS.
“R.G.C.”: In that Central portion of
Queensland which for years was the chief
growing area for sugar-cane, quickly overtak-
ing and passing the pioneer South, the
season’s prospects are only marred by the
ever-present apprehension of Northern
rivalry. Nearer the tropics cane grows
faster, matures more quickly, needs rather
less attention and (broadly speaking) gives
a better chemical content of sugar ; advantages
which areas farther south realise they will find
in the years to come great difficulty in
countering.
At present, cane-production and -marketing
are severely regimented under State and Fed-
eral legislation, and a pooling system in
conjunction with the severe control equalises
advantage and disadvantage. If, however,
the market should ever become an open one.
the South and Central areas appreciate that
a real fight would ensue. For this reason,
far-seeing husbandmen in those areas advo-
cate a greater “mixing ot farming tne
growing of fruit, vegetables, dairy-produce
and similar sidelines as helpers to the present
Sti The °cane-grower always works with his
eyes on two crops, perhaps three if stand-
over” (the cane not harvested last season)
SCounted—the one he is about to harvest,
and the one he has harvested but which lias
not vet been marketed and its return put in
the bank. Since cane-growing entered mt#
its boom period under national control and
the handsome subsidy which the general tax-
payer grants it, the grower is ever oppressed
with fears of lessened revenue owing to the
need for his surplus product to be quitted
what it will fetch in the markets of the
world; and one of the major researches of
the student of sugar culture apart from its
practice, is a further regimenting of the muus
try to keep down that over-production which
results in surpluses. Last year Nature, by
imposing a drought, removed over-produc-
tion bugbear—for the season 1920-27, at any
rate. The Cairns cyclone this monsoon, by
destroying many thousands of tons ot cane
on the prolific northern areas, will also do
something to balance over-production. Mean-
time, generous rainfalls in the Central sugar
areas of Queensland have done something to
give the grower there an equal chance with
the favored North. ,
When cane ‘'‘comes along with normal
Central deliberation, it is beaten by the weeds
that burgeon between the rows of young cane,
making rapid growth in the moist warmth
that follows the rainy season, I his entails
expense to the grower in the employment
of casual labor for “chipping ’-'—removing the
weed-growths with a hand hoe. Casual labor
under wages awards receives the good remu-
neration which Australia customarily gives
seasonal and casual work, so that the bui den
on the small grower is heavy when weeds
beat cane. The bigger men of the planta-
tions use the liorse-hoe and fare a little bettei.
One of the advantages of the tropic North is
that tile cane makes growth so quickly that
it overwhelms its weedy intruders by throw
ing out a shade between rows that prevent ■>
the weeds making headway. Rain and sun
at right periods and intervals in the Central
areas this year has allowed cane to be its
own weed-killer. This has meant more seas-
onal unemployment among caneworkers,
but the farmers have gained.
Generally speaking, sugar-growing pro-
spects are excellent for 1927-28, though cane-
culture is a ehancey game, and there are
always pests, diseases and rain, frost or
drought at wrong times to set back the best
of hopes. And this time next year there will
be the usual problem of the surplus sugar
that will have to be sold for what it will
bring.
“Max”: “Cartot’s” account of delayed ges-
tation in mares (B. 31/3/’27) is not unusual
in man’s domestic animals, and it closely
resembles my own experience with one of
my pure-bred Jersey cows. Very careful
records covering a period of seven years
show that she may be nearly three weeks late
in calving. Shown also are the curious facts
that a delayed calf is always a bull, a
slightly premature calf is always a heifer,
and calves born on time may be either sex
but probably heifers. Her premature calves
have been as early as two vreeks before the
due dates, always arriving in very hot
weather. The first time her calf was late I
consulted the chief vet. of the Agricultural
Department, and was informed that it was
not unusual; but I was advised to watch her
carefullv and to do nothing so long as she
appeared well and comfortable. She lias
never shown any distress in prolongation of
the period.
* * * *
“Hemp”: Here are two mixtures for pre-
serving rope: (1) Beeswax (two parts),
tallow (four parts) and blacklead (one
part) ; (2) tallow (three parts) and graph-
ite (one part). Thoroughly mix by boiling,
and apply hot, preferably while running the
rope over a pulley. Occasional treatment
will double the life of a rope.
* * * •
“P.8.N.”: He bolting horses when being
ridden or driven, a late contributor to The
Bulletin advocated that a slip-knot rope
should be placed round the horse’s neck,
which could be pulled by the rider or driver
to cause partial suffocation. A plan I
employed on a bolting sulky-pony was to
use a bit with two rings on each side. Attach
the cheek-straps of the bridle to the loose
ring on each side, attach the reins to the
fixed rings, put a small strap across the nose,
attaching it to the loose ring at each side,
and attach a strap up the forehead from
the nose-strap to the forehead band to keep
the nose-strap in place. When both reins
are pulled the loose rings slip along the
shank of the bit, causing the nose-strap to
partially smother the nostrils ; but pulling
only one rein has no such effect, and there
is no pain to the horse, as there is with a
curb.
* * * *
“H.N.”: Having several nectarine-trees
badly infected with curly leaf, I put blood
and bone to their roots. Now they are
absolutely free from disease.
* * * *
“Dogela Borop”: Round Cudlee Creek
(S.A.) are some of the best apple-growers
of the State, and some of the best-looked-
after orchards. Even with all the spray and
attention possible, fusicladium has this sea-
son ruined the apple crop. Yet in an old
deserted garden with weeds growing up to
the branches of the apple-trees, there is a
bi°- old Dunn’s Seedling with a magnificent
crop of splendid apples. Can you explain
“Manawatu”: The right treatment for
curly loaf in peaches i.s to spray with Bor-
deaux mixture, first application to be made
when the buds are swelling, the mixture to
be 81b bluestone and 61b. lime to 40gals.
water * When the buds are showing pink,
spray again at a strength of 3-4-50. At
fruit-set and every three weeks after, use
a spray of IgaL lime-sulpliur to 120 gals.
water It is very important that all dead
wood be removed and burned when pruning,
ns the spores of the disease take a lot of
killing.


Mere words cannot express
their infinite superiority.
Army Club
lO for 9dL CIGARETTES 20 for 1/6
In pure ribbed watermarked paper,
CAVANDERS Ltd.. London (Est. 1775), Pioneers of Hygienic Cigarette Packing.
fr
4.
m
SQ
CORK
TIPPED
or PLAIN
SMOKE-OH!
A near Scot can be very distant when you
put the hard word on him.
Motor-car manufacturers in the U.S.A.
work all round the clock. In Australia also
the clock comes into the business —the cars
are sold on tick.
$ , *
Dean Crotty, of Newcastle (N.S.W.), says
the crying need of the hour is a new spirit
in industry. Quite true, no doubt; but. as
long as the old ghost walks, most of us will
be satisfied.
*
Sydney Uni. has conferred the title of
Doctor of Laws on the Duke of York. Pro-
fessor Peden presented him. Seeing that
Peden has spent the last few months trying
to repair Lang’s legislation in the Council;
it would have been a decent thing if in
return the Duke of York had presented the
Professor for the degree of Doctor of Flaws.
“Aha” : Hitherto nobody except the famous
lunatic has succeeded in making a noise like
a turnip; but science has at last succeeded.
At a lecture at the Imperial College of
Science (England) Mr. J. L. Baird con-
verted light into sound by television. He has
made phonographic records of a bowler liat.
which, he says, makes a soft, purring sound ;
but a cabbage gives a very vigorous imitation
WITNESS (describing accused): "I fancy he was a
menial on a ship, because somebody told me he
had done a bunk!”
of a man gargling, as would be expected.
Three faces were televisioned; the first made
a noise like a mechanical saw (evidently a
mother-in-law this) ; the second sounded like
a tube train heard in the distance; and,
the third produced a racket like a pneumatic
riveter. I’ve often heard worse faces. There,
is one owned by a Judge that sounds like a
tram-car in George-street, and I know a
Chinese vegetable visitor who sounds like
Shanghai and smells like concussion of the
brain. The man who calls for the rent has
happy points of resemblance to the Day of
Judgment.
City Visitor: "Do you get much muggy
weather up here?”
Country Publican : “My oath ! It's nearly
all long drinks in this part. They call for
nobblers only about two months in mid-
winter.”
Counsel for the Defendant: “Now, didn't
my client tell you he was married the first
evening he'met you?'
Plaintiff: “He may have done so. But I'm
sure he didn’t mean half the things he said
to me that evening.”
* *
A Victorian seaside council lately received
a letter from a ratepayer complaining that
sea-spray was spoiling his garden. The
town-clerk replied: “The matter is noted and
has been duly referred to the proper
authority.”
The gentleman who knows everything
was talking after the procession to the two
bored-looking girls lie had snared to the Aus-
tralia with promises of tea and toast. He
had explained the family tree of the Royal-
ties of half of Europe. “This little lady,
you see, is not a Duchess in her own right.”
“Quite so," drawled one fed-up girl—“a bed-
room Duchess, as it were!" And the tea
was consumed in savage silence.
The youngster had never before been out
of his crowded suburb, and now lie had been
introduced to his first small fowlyard. Out-
sidel the fowlhouse was a few square yards
of grass, and here the rooster was scratch-
ing first with one foot and then with the
other. He watched the bird for some seconds
in silence. Then lie pulled Dad’s coat.
"Look, Dad,” he said. “Hasn’t auntie
brought her fowls up nicely! They rub
their feet for ever so long before they go
inside.”
* *
The highbrow-looking lady was seated in
a beacli-chair, book on lap, thoughtfully
gazing through liorn-rimmed glasses at the
doodling waves. Enter two freckled urchins
clad in tattered bathing-costumes and evi-
dently looking for a safe possie for the
trousers and shirts which they carried under
their arms. “Here y’are, Curly, this’ll do,”
piped one; “let’s shove ’em under her chair.”
“No, put ’em in front of her, Stinker, so’s
she can watch ’em,” said Curly. While
Stinker carefully planted the garments,
Curly dashed off to the water’s edge, and
Stinker was about to follow when he was
pulled up by his mate’s shrill warning:
“Look out she doesn’t pinch yer apple,
Stinker!” Stinker cast a suspicious glance
at the impassive face of the lady, turned over
the garments and furtively poked a grubby
apple further into the trouser-pocket.
Talking of tongues, heard
the story Sydney is telling
behind the fans? It concerns
a Sydney woman and man
who know that, while each
thinks there’s no one on
earth like the other, they
can best preserve this per-
spective while half the world
divides them. The lady was
in Paris, and wished to
change her hotel for a quieter
one. She saw her new apart-
ment in company with the
hotel manager. She found
everything charming except
that her bedroom was separ-
ated from the next apart-
ment by only a closed-and-
bolted folding door. She
commented on this. “But,
Madam,” said the manager,
“the gentleman who is next
door is very quiet.” “Then,
brightening: “A fellow coun-
tryman of yours—a Mr. .”
The Sydney woman didn’t
bat a hair, but quietly turned
and sought bed and break-
fast elsewhere. The gentle-
man so highly commended
was her own husband.
Through some mixing of their
dates Paris held them both
at the same time.
The pickpocket looks for the silver lining
in every crowd.
The great advantage in owning a castle in
Spain is that it is the only one a man can
return to after a night out without the fear
of finding a snuffy-looking bailiff sitting in
the kitchen.
The glass of fashion is now the cocktail.
And women who take it may find it the
mould of form.
A MONDAY CURSE.
A reg’lar nuisance is the man
Who comes in his old 'bus.
Each Monday morn, to gel his rent —
He takes it out of us.
A bailiff as his shadow lurks,
So he must have his pelf;
Our landlord’s not a man who shirks
His duty to himself.
Though it may lacerate his heart
To grab our latest cent,
Ho bids the bailiff do his part
Because his heart is rent.
N.S.W.
HAROLD HARDTOP.
SMILES, SMILES, SMILES!
She’s packed up her troubles in the old
Renown,
And she smiles, smiles, smiles.
She carries round her merriment for every
town
With her laugliter-laden wiles.
What’s the use of. worrying? With gladness
she beguiles;
She hasn’t any troubles that will make her
frown,
So she smiles, smiles, smiles!
N.S.W.
A. H. A.
THE SINNER
One day our Scripture class stood up
All solemn in a row,
And parson asked us if we knew
Who caused all strife and woe.
Then up shot little Mary's hand.
“Please, Sir, I know," she said —-
“It's Dad. when he ain’t split no wood
The day Mum's making bread!”
N.S.W.
CRIPPS CLARK.
RE A SON AH LY SUPPOSED.
The track that twisted from the rich sheep
country to McGinty’s hungry selection a
thousand feet above did so because there
was no other way of getting there. Native-
cats and wallabies were about the only stock
on it; but as one looked out over tier after
tier of dark green myrtle flecked with white
blossom where big butterflies flew in hundreds,
you saw just that lovely blue shaded by the
faintest grey that means Tass.v —and you get
it nowhere else.
McGinty didn’t see it. He was working on
a piece of tallow-wood for a slasher-handle,
and his wife was peeling potatoes for dinner.
Then the dog barked in the tone that
tells of a stranger.
McGinty was on his feet in a second. Go-
ing to the front of the house, he saw a
horseman ride round a bend in the track
not far below. A rider in blue—no need to
ask what he wanted.
A phrase lie had heard somewhere seemed
to beat like a hammer on his brain. “Reason-
ably supposed to have been stolen.” The big
stone walls of Hobart Gaol loomed up in
front of him and his brain wouldn’t work.
Then like a flash the idea came to him.
“Quick,” he said to his wife, “the traps
are here. Pull the blinds down and cover
BILLY : “Every morning you are my first
thought.”
TILLY : “But your brother there says the
same.”
BILLY : “Ah. but I get up half an hour
before him!”
yourself up in bed. And don’t move or speak
on your life!”
Then McGinty, working swiftly, lifted the
carcase of the fat sheep, quite “reasonably
supposed to have been stolen,” from its peg
in the shed and placed it in the bed beside his
wife. He closed the door softly, and, picking
up the slasher-handle on his way out, was
just in time to meet the trooper coming round
the front of the house.
The trooper showed his search warrant and
made known his business.
“Well,” said McGinty, “there ain’t much
here ; but what little there is is mine.”
“May as well start here,” snapped the
trooper, and searched the shed. McGinty led
the way to the kitchen and the other rooms
in turn till there was only the bedroom left.
Now for the test.
Holding up his hand lie whispered to the
trooper: “Go in, if yer must; but don’t
scare her —we’re expectin’ the nurse any
minute.”
The trooper turned and tiptoed outside,
beckoning McGinty after him. “Family man
meself,” he said.
“Lucky for me,” replied McGinty, “it
wasn’t one of them young coves—they might
not have understood.”
The trooper rode down the track and Mc-
Ginty patted the dog.
The expert estate-agent knows the lie of
the land.
Dukes have their Rod Letter days.
But sub-editors are greater—they have their
Blue Pencil years.
Thirty-four Assamese villages have pro-
mised the British Government to abstain
from head-hunting. Evidently “headin’ ’em"
isn’t as peculiarly Australian a pastime as
we had thought.
HE: “You haven't been attending the trea-
sure hunts lately?"
S HE: "No. I've got a private one of my own
on.”
Eden (N.S.W.) possesses a man named
Garden, who is a strong anti-Communist and
blends loyalty to the Throne with a strong
Australian patriotism. Jock, of the Sydney
Trades Hull, is not the Garden of Eden.
* _
“Percy Pawnticket” : My friend Binks is
a man who thinks out brilliant jokes and
endangers his friends’ lives by trying them
out in the wrong place. The other day he
tried one on me: “What makes the British
Navy great?” When I guessed the usual
things he laughed boisterously. , “I don't
mean g-r-e-a-t,” he said; I mean g-r-a-t-e!”
Later he was in a bar crowded with Navy
men. Lifting his hands above his head, he
demanded: "What makes the British Navy
grate?” They turned round to look at Binks
and one of them asked “What?” “Nutmegs,"
said Binks brightly. In the earthquake that
followed, many things happened before I
sorted out Binks from the tangled heap.
Next day I met one of the men of H.M.S.
Bathtub nursing his bruises, and I asked
him what the row was all about. “Oh,” he
said, “as far as I can make out. some bloke
called one of our coves a nutmeg-grater.”
TANTANOOLA.
Long years ago when things were dull
And it was not so hard to gull
Or, if you like the phrase, to fool a
Rural folk, at Tantanoola,
In South Australia's far south-east,
Appeared a strange, exotic beast.
Someone with dreams of her of Niger
Discovered Tantanoola’s tiger.
Some said it was an escapee
From circus or menagerie,
And every old inhabitant
Recalled the lion, elephant,
Rhino and fierce wild Indian boar
That passed through—thirty years before.
But sceptics all insisted on
Its breeding : “Whisky—Demijohn.”
Whatever purpose rumor serves
It got on Tantanoola's nerves.
Belated folk who’d gone astray
Found that fierce tiger in the way.
Young girls home-coming late at night
Arrived hysterical with fright,
And old soaks, wandering from the pub.
Met that same tiger and its-cub.
At last the creature so much feared
Was killed, or died, and disappeared.
The cause of death, most now agree—
A surfeit of publicity.
So when more townships, far remote,
Bored with the local cow and goat,
Discovered things escaped from zoos,
They got cold hearing for their news.
But some day yet, as if to shame us,
Old Tantanoola may bo famous
For some great deed, or some great name:
It matters not, for just the same,
Whatever thing may come to pass
And live in monumental brass,
Despite its claims to great renown
It always will be “Tiger Town.”
S.A.
BILL O’C.


f tA
1 !
s
IN
'
H
1 .’ •:
mmm&M
WmMMtsmmi!&
.
.
■BHH
'
I-:':*- :
mm
■ ■
' , '
■
X-: > ' 4
5 ; :
gSSSjIpS
m
■ :••:
./
9
8 KS
! Si
. m
m
Wmrnw
XvX'XaXvaXvX-X-XvX-x’xaXvX-X-X
- .
m
m
iS’ii SKS*
pS„ * :
o :« si pill s§s|sj® \
x -:S¥;s:A:s:S?sg;:s: s "
••_••■ * • ■ -.-.... v.va .' v. .••■.' • • ■-•-
M
SjSSS-S^WS
IBUI
$
IIM
H Hi :' '
ill ■
■
•a: S
ssss
Mssss
lIM
■ ::IH ?: i-
- ! -
■ jsssss : : :•;■¥; •••*:•. ..•.. •:.....;..' s jJsB "•::••
81111&:
HH ii
: . .. 1
1111111
x^jxvAv:-.'::-:
fi
S • •• • • • •• ..... s*K?«i • y > •• \
Mi***!®*!
• 1 X
§ »SS >< ■■ ,
•• •■ i&'fv?, '
XAvr^i-yAX^x^x^XAiXvXvi-x-r-i^-ivX^^^S:-:^
,:. X
"•: ■ ; :;i; i| '. !
ScotchWHISKY
Wsm%s&yy : • g
■■Ml
jmmi
§llll
Guaranteed to be Exclusively the Product of Scotland.
WHITE HORSE DISTILLERS LTD.
Glasgow.
DALGETY & COMPANY LTD.,
Agents.


Th
facts
may prevent you from purchasing a motor
car of obsolete design
The Whippet has the specifications of a laijge car—modified to meet
the requirements of buyers who want style and performance at a
reasonable cost. Compare these and other facts about the
Whippet before buying any low priced car.
Special Whippet Features
Smart Bodies— sturdily built—beautifully finished —more interior space than
most light cars.
4-Wheel Brakes —fully enclosed—mechanically controlled.
55 miles an hour and more—quick acceleration wonderful top gear per-
formance.
Super-efficient engine, rated at 15.9 H. P., but developing 31 H. P. Smooth,
quiet flow of power—low tax rate.
30 miles per imperial gallon of petrol—low gravity centre — greater driving
safety—ample clearance. %
Turns in 34 foot circle— only 14 feet curb space for parking.
Irreversible type of steering —no back lash —adjustable steering wheel position.
Large Balloon Tyres— water pump—full oil pump system.
Utmost quality —built to last for years.
An up-to-date design means efficiency—Smaller motoring bills — Higher resale
value —All around satisfaction
We are proud of the Whippet and will be delighted to demonstrate it.
Whippet
f 4/S''
18,
y
&
m
w
m
m
*%fi2535"-
Overland Sydney, Ltd., 148-150 Castlereagh Street, SYDNEY.
Overland Victoria Pty., Ltd., 117-121 Lonsdale Street, MELBOURNE.
Overland South Australia, Ltd., 236-238 Victoria Square, ADELAIDE.
E. G. Eager & Son, Ltd., Breakfast Creek Road, Newstead, BRISBANE.
H. C. Heathorn & Co., Ltd., HOBART and LAUNCESTON.
Adams Motors, Ltd., 442-446 Murray Street, PERTH.
SEE YOUR LOCAL DEALER.
WILLYS - OVERLAND . FINE • MOTOR . CARS


The Australian Provincial Assurance Association Limited
HEAD OFFICE: 77 KING STREET, SYDNEY.
'Directors: Messrs. W. NORTHAM (Chairman), ALEX. KING, Dr. E. MORRIS lIUMPHERY, Senator J. D. MILLEN, and Mr. EDMUND S. W. PAUL.
Total Assets exceed. . .. . . £1,724,000
BRANCHES: Melbourne, Brisbane, Adelaide, Perth, Hobart. NEW ZEALAND: Wellington, Auckland, Christchurch, Dunedin.
„ SOME REASONS WHY YOU SHOULD INSURE WITH THE A.P.A.:
(1) Because in the event of total disablement for life all future premiums
will b° paid by the Association and no deduction made from policy or
bonuses. „ ~ ...
(2) Hospital Benefits are given with every Life Policy applicable to public
and private hospitals, varying in amount according to the sum assured
and no deduction made from policy or bonuses.
(3) In the event of loss of eye or limb through accident, a quarter of the
sum assured will be paid forthwith, and the premium reduced propor-
tionately.
(4) PERSONAL ACCIDENT and Combined Benefit Policies provide for
almost every contingency.
NO EXTRA PREMIUM IS CHARGED FOR THESE BENEFITS
Probate, Children’s Education and Finance Policies specialised.
Applications for Agencies invited from men of integrity.
GEO. PEACOCK, F.C.1.5., Secretary.
T. W. RAPLEY, General Manager.
The Lady Who Was French.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
I'JI sure that landlady is French,” said
Nora.
Even if there had not been a blush m
her voice, the remark would have informed
me that the flatulent sentimentalist who bore
the most un-Frencli name of Higgs, wedded
to an accent that hinted of O’Brien, had
been trying to discuss bridal secrets; for
in the surroundings from which I had
rescued Nora, to refer to a novel or play
~s “French” carries a suggestion of extra-
naughtiness.
I felt a touch of unease. Our love —mine
and Nora’s —was a delicate romance that
could not suffer the proximity of coarser
filings; I feared the reaction upon my shy
Nora of any pornographic remarks that Mrs.
Higgs might make. A momentary intuition
of the danger had occurred to me when I
engaged the room.
When we left our luggage—there was not
much of it—on the Manly wharf whilst we
found a habitation, Nora had accompanied
me; hut directly I set out to inquire about
the “Large, double-front room” I saw pro-
claimed by a skew-whiff card in a window,
she let me go on alone. After a delay and
a shambling of slippered feet on the other
side, the door opened and the amiable but
rather bleary face of a man with a close-
clipped beard looked round the edge of the
door. I assessed him as a retired seafarer.
“Married couple?” he asked when I made
my inquiry about the room.
“Yes.”
"Young married couple?” he suggested
rather than asked.
“Yes.”
: He fliprflopped to the end of the passage,
and I heard him, greatly exceeding his com-
mission, tell somebody inside that a newly-
married couple wanted the balcony room.
That brought out Mrs. Higgs.
“It’s a lovely room; looks right out on
the bay. I’ve had eleven newly-married
couples in it; and they all loved it. Come
an’ I’ll show you.”
She Avas a floppy sort of woman, and she
Hopped ov r er Avith semi-sentimental conver-
sion as she led the Avay upstairs.
“I love ’avin’ bridal couples in the ’ouse ;
seems to brighten the place so,” she said.
It’s a very respectable house • I never take
in any but respectable married people. And
single men. Just now there’s only three
•ingle young men—leastways, one is married,
but lie’s not living with his wife —an’ the
Cap'll—him you saw below. He’s been stay-
ing with me six years now. And this is the
room.”
Having thrown open the door she stood
back to let me admire it. It was a nice
room.
“A loA r ely A 7 iew,” she said, throwing open
the French windows. “Afternoon sun. Being
i newly-married couple, you won’t want a
morning sun coming in and disturbing you,”
she added fatly.
In spite of an uneasy feeling that I
wouldn’t like remarks like that made to
N’ora, I engaged the room; and I wen t
away to gather Nora and the luggage. Then
we moved in. We had a sort of official
reception when we arrived, with Mrs. Higgs
saying tenderly to Nora, “My dear, I hope
you will be very, very happy while ‘you’re
here; you’ll find the bed very comfortable,”
and looking as if she could easily shed tears
for that strange reason that women find for
'bedding them at weddings, whilst the Cap’n
lingered in the offing as if he felt he was
part of the celebrations. Altogether I was
glad when we got to our room.
Nora had been frightened and shy all the
morning, afraid of the adventure she was
facing, and the greeting weighed upon her
shyness; but when, with the door shut, I
put my arms round her and told her that
this was our homev—our first home—and
showed her the view, sue brightened up.
"Yes, I think we’ll be dreadfully happy
here, you and I,” she smiled; and then the
shadow 7 came back a little. “I wish every-
thing was all right and we could have Auntie
and Thiele and the girls down to see us.”
“What does it matter?” I demanded
fiercely and a little impatiently. “You and
I have a world of our own, and we don’t
need anybody else —or care about them!
They’ll all come round in time. And we
have each other, anyway.”
She put her little hands up to my face
tenderly, with her lips turned up to me;
and I flopped downward on to an easy-
ebair, dragging her to my knees. An apolo-
getic knock at the door came shortly.
“If you want to get anything in, the
f'ap’n will be glad to get it for you,” said
Mrs. Higgs on the other side.
"We’ll be having our meals out,” I said.
“But that miMit not be convenient always
—for breakfast, and so on,” said Mrs. Higgs.
Over such matters Nora was as yet all at
Sea; I told Mrs. Higgs the few things Ave
would require, gave her the money, and
thanked her.
( “I’ll put them in your safe in the kitchen ;
111 show you where it is when you want
it,” said Mrs. Higgs. “I won’t disturb
you again.”
Damn the woman’s fatty sentimentality!
I determined to steer Nora clear of Mrs.
Higgs as much as possible, and to a large
extent did. But when Nora and I went out,
some time later, I noticed how a group of
feminine faces suddenly formed in the half-
open window of the house next door but
one.
“Mrs. Higgs said they were only married
this morning,” was one comment I heard.
So Mrs. Higgs had told the world; pro-
bably there were faces, less noticeable, in
other houses taking the excitement that
comes to women in the inspiration of newly-
married couples; but Nora had noticed no-
thing, and 1 hurriedly led her over to the
treed reserve. Even the streak of fear in
Nora’s happiness was completely forgotten.
A breakfast came to our door, all nicely
prepared, next morning—a kindly act, seeing
that it was not on Mrs. Higgs’s contract to
do such things. Her knock disturbed me,
and I leaped out of bed to open the door
and take the tray.
“I thought maybe you’d like something,”
she said, “but I left it till half-past ten
before I would disturb you.”
I hurriedly looked round, glad to see that
Nora was only drowsily waking, thanked
Mrs. Higgs, and closed the door.
All that day we spent happily, finding
the secluded spots which can still be found in
Manly. When, to go with some cold chicken
wo brought home—“home” had a rich, full
sound to both of us—Nora suggested a cup
of tea, I went with her to make it. Mrs.
Higgs and the Cap’ll were in the kitchen,
drinking cocoa together; and we learnt the
ways of the house. The Cap’n appeared
to be an amiable creature who was ready
to do all sorts of odd jobs, although he
apparently paid well for his accommodation;
and lie had a sort of dog-like adoration for
the over-fat but pleasant-looking Mrs. Higgs.
At her command he lit the stove and put
on the kettle for Nora. Then he started
to talk to me about the sea and I was
unable to hear what Mrs. Higgs was saying.
But it was after that that Nora expressed
the opinion of Mrs. Higgs’s French origin.
I changed the subject; I did not want the
delicate fabric of our romance to be sullied
by the clumsy ideas of any people it did not
concern.
The next morning no breakfast arrived
at our door, for which I felt relief; I pre-
ferred to go down and get what we wanted.
The Cap’n was there, putting a kettle op
the stove, and looking a singular mixture
of happiness and furtiveness. He said he
had to get some things, and went out; and
then, just as 1 was putting our breakfast
together, Mrs. Higgs came in in a wrap,
with her fat, sentimental smile more in evi-
dence than ever.
“I’m sorry I didn’t get breakfast for you
and that sweet little girl-wife of yours,” she
said.
“We didn’t expect it; it was good of you
to do it yesterday,” I replied.
“The fact is” began Mrs. Higgs, and
then gave a coy little laugh. “You know the
Cap’n has been after me fer years, but I
didn’t think of ever havin’ another husband;
but you young people coming here, I suppose,
worked us both up. He came to my door
the first night you was here, but I wouldn’t
let him in; but last night I had to open the
door to him, poor fell’r. He’s very fond of
me.”
I fled from further revelations, my soul
stirred with a feeling that I must keep them
from Nora. I had instilled in her heart
the great idea that love —real love—was
everything; that it was worth even the sacri-
fice of friends. The coarse conduct _of these
people, from whom time had drained the
capacity for high passion, was, of course,
not to be compared with our ethereal flights;
but I dreaded lest she should feel some
smudge on our own bright dreams by becoming
acquainted with such offensive realities as
these.
That afternoon, Nora grew tired and, hop-
ing to avoid Mrs. Higgs and the Cap’n, I
took her home to rest. They seemed to be
lying in wait for us, however, and in a
confused sort of way we found ourselves led
into Mrs. Higgs’s sitting-room—a sort of holy
place we had not previously seen open. There
were signs of banqueting on the table.
“You must have a glass of wine to drink
our health !” said our landlady. “It’s really
to you that we owe being married now!
Yes; me an’ the Cap’n have just got mar-
ried.”
“Married !” Nora cried. “Oh, I’m so glad !
I congratulate both of you!”
It seemed to me that Nora’s face had
suddenly grown pale.
The late Mrs. Higgs thrust out a podgy
hand on which gleamed two gold bands and
another ring which glinted with brilliants.
“I’m still wearing the one Higgs gave me ;
but this is the Cap’n’s. And, as there was
no engagement, he gave me this to make up
for an engagement ring.”
Suddenly I felt mean, ashamed. I had
given Nora nothing except an invitation to
share a struggling poverty, a doubtful future,
and the passion I declared to be everything.
Knowing how she loved me, I had dominated
her. although I could not drive the frightened
feeling from her.
“Of course,” said the Cap’n, lifting his
glass, “we old fogeys can’t expect to be quite
like you young people with your glorious
love, but we can find comfort in one another.”
“We can’t expect babies,” said his bride,
“but we can be happy.”
1 felt Nora’s hand, which had groped for
mine, grip tight, convulsively. Taking her
arm I told them that we had only returned
for a moment; we had to go out to an
appointment.
“Where are going?” asked Nora, when
we were outside; there sounded a strain of
tears in her voice.
“Let’s go and get married,” I said.
I felt a sudden spring of joy in her as she
turned and embraced me, there in the street.
And getting a taste of the happiness in
her heart the jettisoning of all my blatant
unconventional view's regarding matrimony
seemed well worth while.
HAMER.
Grit.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
ALL day long the torrential rain had
lashed and pelted down on the roof
of the little hut with a noise like the
howling of a thousand devils, and with the
darkness came a bitter wind that whistled and
sobbed down the chimney, sending little
puffs of smoke out through the cracks in the
stove. John Lawton, M.D., shivered, drew
closer to the glowing stove and bitterly
cursed himself as a fool for having wan-
dered into such a God-forsaken spot to spend
a long vacation. “What a life!” he groaned.
“What a”
A battering on the door of the hut inter-
rupted his flow of words. Drawing his
thick coat more closely around him he strode
to the door and jerked it open; and as the
cold wind came rushing in, carrying on its
bosom a perfect medley of sounds, a dripping
oil-skinned figure entered. “Hullo, Doc.!”
he greeted. “You’re wanted out at Mc-
Pherson’s right away. I got the car outside,
so shake a leg, ’cause it’s blowin’ like stinkin’
Hell outside.”
The doctor looked at the other with a
touch of surprise in his face.
“Surely, Bidwell,” he exclaimed, “you
don’t expect me to go out on a night like
this! Besides, Morely is the practitioner
in charge of this district —why not try
him?”
The man addressed as Bidwell snorted
angrily. “Like Hell I will! Morley’s an-
other six miles further in, and you are the
nearest. Jest grab your tools and come
quietly, or I’ll drag you there by force.”
“Well,, why not wait till the rain slackens
off?” the doctor.
“Look here,-Lawton, I tell you it’s urgent,”
Bidwell replied with quiet emphasis. “Mrs.
McPherson’s dead crook, and we’ll be lucky
if we get there in time. When Sandy started
to ride here for help, he fell and broke his
leg. Now are you coinin’ or have I got to
lug you there?”
An angry retort sprang to Lawton’s lips,
but there was a look in Bidwell’s eyes
which showed that he was determined to get
the doctor to McPherson’s—by force, if
necessary. So, grumbling to himself, Law-
ton prepared his little case, and, slipping
into his oilskins, followed Bidwell through
the blinding rain to the car.
“Better sit tight,” Doc.,” advised Bidwell,
as lie cranked up the car. “The road’s
awfully bad.”
He had not done the road justice. Bad
was too mild a term. There were times
during that ride when Lawton felt that a
team of bolting horses was a tame affair
compared with it. The rain poured down
in blinding sheets. There was no shelter,
and, what was worse in that place of big,
straggling trees on either side of the road,
no open space.
Suddenly the sky was lit by a vivid streak
of lightning, and there came a rending, splin-
tering noise as to the left of them, and a
little ahead a great gum-tree swayed and
tottered. Only Bidwell’s quick thinking
saved them. Shoving his foot down hard
on the accelerator, the car shot ahead, just
as the tall tree crashed down behind them,
one of its dead branches wrecking the hood
of the car. Next moment they were in to
the open road and safety.
“Struth!” yelled Bidwell, trying to make
his voice heard above the roar of the wind,
“that was a close shave, Doc., eh?”
Lawton’s reply was unheard by Bidwell;
his eyes were fixed on the feeble glare of
the headlights, and his ears tingled with
the challenge of the elements. His head
throbbed from the rain that beat into his
eyes through the shattered wind-shield, but
all his faculties were keenly alert. Slipping,
sliding, but ever crawling on, they made
their way over the hill and down the steep
incline. Once when a spark-plug fouled
and the engine sputtered, he coasted. Twice
the wheels skidded into a bank, and they
lost one of their precious lights. Further
on their wheels sank into the mire, and
Bidwell freed the car by wrapping his coat
around one tyre. Then, when the worst part
of the journey was over, and the straight
road was before them, the car jarred and
slid to a standstill. Bidwell stepped out,
cursing in fiery oaths that even the pelting
rain could not quench.
“The bridge is down,” he groaned. “What
can we do? Sandy laid up with a broken
leg and his missus probably dyin’.” Then
his eyes lit up. “Gosh! The Flyin’ Fox!
Come on, Doc.” And grabbing Lawton
roughly by the arm he dragged him up the
slope of the river bank to where a huge gum-
tree stood. Around the trunk of the tree
was wound a wire rope which stretched
across the river. On the wire rope was
suspended a pulley block.
“We use this fer sendin’ stores and things
across in flood-time,” explained BidwelJ.
“All you got to do is to hang on to the
hook and shove off. Your own weight will
carry you over —she’s built on a slope.”
Lawton looked at the surging waters. The
ride in the car and their several narrow
escapes from death had shaken him. What
if while suspended in mid-air his nerve gave
out and lie dropped into that raging death
below! Shuddering, he drew back, his face
pallid.
“Hell! A flamin’ coward!” Bidwell
roared. “Pull yerself together, man, and
grab that hook, or I’ll pitch you into the
blasted river. Strutli! Ain’t yer got no
guts at all?”
Very reluctantly, under Bidwell’s threaten-
ing gestures, Lawton grasped the hook and,
with one shuddering glance at the raging
waters, closed liis eyes and swung out over
the stream; nor did he open them till he
was safely landed on the other side, where
he was swiftly joined, by Bidwell. Then
together they struggled over the rough
ground till they reached the welcome lights
of the McPhersons’ home.
While Bidwell hastily prepared hot drinks
Lawton examined McPherson’s leg, and
grunted his approval of the rough impro-
vised splints that Bidwell had fixed to it.
“Reckon you will do for a bit,” he said;
“at least, till I fix up your wife.”
“Don’t worry over me, Doc.,” replied
Sandy, trying to speak cheerfully in spite
of the pain he was in. “ ’Tend to the
missus; she’s bad.” Lawton glanced at him
and his face set grim. “Bushman!” he
mused. “And tough as whipcord. God,
what a breed!”
He turned his attention to the woman,
and his professional eye soon told him that
he had a grim battle in hand; after what
he had passed through and the state of his
nerves, he wondered if he could do it.
As Bidwell re-entered the room the doctor
straightened up ; his face was pale, and his
lips were a set line. He took the cup, and
drained it at one gulp. “It’s an operation,"
he said. “You’ll have to help; there is
nothing else for it. Get hot water and
towels.”
As Bidwell hastened he marvelled at the
change. Only an hour before, the man had
been a pallid-faced, trembling creature, and
now he controlled the situation. There had
been a snap in that command. The snap
of a man accustomed to being obeyed.
Lawton had to administer his own anes-
thetic, and that was one of his biggest risks.
Too much might prove fatal to the woman
in her low condition, and too little —that
was it! Should the patient return to con-
sciousness while he was operating, it would
prove fatal to continue. To cease operating
to administer another dose would also prob-
ably prove fatal.
Swiftly lie‘-worked, almost not daring to
breathe, his uncannily bright; and Bid-
well watched him in admiration mixed with
awe and wonder. This was the man he had
called a coward! There was a. sickening
feeling in the pit of Bidwell’s stomach, and
his throat felt parched. He knew what
Lawton had gone through and he watched
his face anxiously. When he saw the sudden
tense setting of the jaw, the quick but deli-
cate moving of the hands that held the
glittering instruments—those slim white
hands that he had despised and jeered at —
he knew that the critical moment had
arrived.
With all the skill that he commanded,
Lawton fought stubbornly, and at last
straightened up with a sigh.
“Everything’s O K. now,” he said wearily.
“Mrs. McPherson’s coming on fine and her
husband’s comfortable. I think I’ll go ouc-
side for a breath of air.”
The rain and wind had ceased, and the
wild, grey dawn was breaking, shedding its
pale light over the rain-soaked earth. The
sound of a soft-creaking door reached his
ears, the squelching of feet in the soggy
earth, and Bidwell came and stood beside
him. Lawton applied a match to his pipe,
and, blowing out a cloud of smoke, turned
to him. Bidwell’s face was ghastly in the
light of the coming dawn, and he trembled.
Lawton grinned,. and took the pipe from
between his teeth.
“Pull yourself together, man,” he barked.
“Ain’t you got no guts at all?”
Bidwell gulped, and licked his dry lips.
A sickly smile shifted over his face as he
shot out a huge ham-like hand.
“Shake, Doc.,” he gulped. “I’ve been
shook up, and I take back all I said. I
reckon guts is a matter of a man’s job.”
FREDERIC FITZGERALD.


“Bulletin" Service Coupon
t4141’27.
NAME AND ADDRESS
(for office use only)
Mr., Mrs. or Miss
Cut this out and, send with your “Want” to “Service Department,”
Bulletin office, Sydney or Me I bourne.
R
Ŕ
The TOP-NOTCH "Scotch
V
StyV/ntn Man I!
T
yr
r
!■
Vv
WEED Tyre Chains
take you over the
worst roads and back.
They furnish traction
stop power loss —save
petrol—make driving
easier, safer and more
comfortable.
■ ; . '.'.l 7 ; hi:- < ■
Order from your dealer
AMERICAN CHAIN COMPANY. In*.
New York, N.Y., U.S.A.
Foremost in quality for more than 20 years
..JED TYRE CHAINS
Our Service Department
This page has been set aside for the use of Bulletin readers. If you want any-
thing you are invited to write and tell us about it. It will cost you nothing.
If you are looking for a farm, or an orchard, or a sheep-station, tell us your
requirements, and we will try to find out if there is anybody wanting to sell one.
If you want to discover what other people’s experience has been in growing linseed
or red cabbages, or anything else, we will invite them to help you.
If you want to get in touch with an old mate; if you want to swap something; if
you want to find an opening for your boy or girl; if you want —well, no matter what
you want, Tiie Bulletin Service Department has been created to help you get it.
It is at your disposal free.
There are thousands of things not known to anybody in The Bulletin office, but
there are Bulletin readers who are experts in most things, and it won’t cost you any-
thing to ask.
If any Bulletin reader has struck an idea which he is glad to think might benefit
other readers, there is a place waiting here for him to pass it on.
Thousands of young men and women on the land are continually meeting difficulties.
Old hands have, in most cases, met them before and overcome them, and will, we believe,
be glad to pass on their knowledge. This is the meeting-place for them.
If you write for information about anything at all, and that information, if we can
procure it, seems to be of general value, it will be printed. In other cases the replies
will be sent by post.
No charge whatever will be made for the service. All you have to do is to cut out
the coupon from the last Bulletin to hand (the coupon will be printed week by week
in this page), and attach it to your “Want.”
Of course, people who oblige with replies need not send coupons.
Information Wanted.
Is there a genuine, unmistakable cash sur-
render value of a life insurance policy?
—No. 11.
It is not unmistakable, being a matter
of calculation ; and not such a simple calcu-
lation either. It is probably not the same
in any two offices.
A simple recipe for preparing rabbit-
skins for a rug. —No. 15.
Try one of these —there are others, maybe
better; if there are we shall be glad to hear
of them. (1) If tanning bark is not avail-
able, take 2dwt. saltpetre, 2dwt. alum, loz.
arsenic ; use this to a gallon of water. Soak
in this for 12 hours. Well drain the water
out of the skins; then rub the inside with
neatsfoot oil. (2) Where wattle-bark suit-
able for tanning is available, make a brew
as though you were making tea, not too
strong. Immerse and renew the liquor
every three days. Keep going for three
weeks. Every other day rub the skin gently
with a piece of brick to remove fatty par-
ticles.
Will you inform, me as to the bounty
offered by the Federal Government in respect
of cotton grown in Australia , i.e.: (1) The
total amount earmarked; {2) the amount
apportioned for rate cotton; (3) the amount
apportioned for cotton yarn made from
Australian-grown cotton; (//) the period
over which the distribution will be made?
—No. 14.
In reply: (1) £900,000; (2) maximum
amount apportioned for seed-cotton in any
one year, £120,000; rate of bounty, 14d.
per lb., with the exception of lower grades,
which seldom amount to more than three
per cent, of the crop; (3) maximum amount
apportioned for cotton yarn in any one year,
£60,000; yarn bounties are - from id. upward
per lb., according to the counts of yarn spun ;
(4) five years.
Give me an opinion of the following com-
panies as a safe investment: Pacific Insur-
ance, K. F. B. Foundry, Pefdriau, and Mer-
cantile Mutual. —No. 6. ' :
Reply mailed.
I want to know the best , way of curing
main-crop lemons in large quantities for sale
in the summer. There would be some hun-
dreds of cases to be treated.—No. 20.
Information will be welcomed.
What’s the least I can run a motor-car
for? I don't want to average more than JtO
miles a week. I’m not Henry Ford. —No. 21.
Depends on the make of car and how much,
you can do in the way of repairs. A Bul-
letin man who has to cut things fine reports
his own experience. “On a £2OO car you can't
put depreciation at less than 12s. 6d. a week.
My other costs and charges have averaged
9s. per week, and I’ve done a little more than
the mileage quoted.”
Some of tlic Commonwealth flags flying for
the Duke had a six-pointed star under the
Union Jack and some had a seven-pointed
star. Which is correct?- —No. 13.
Walder’s, the largest flag-makers in .Aus-
tralia, say the star should have six points.
Titles and authors’ names of the best
six short stories written by Australians and
where published. — No. 9.
Wants.
(Replies should be sent to the number
set against the “Want,” c/o Service
Department, BULLETIN.)
Have been employed as a joiner’s machin-
ist, and am willing to take on any sort of
job. Am 22. —No. 2.
To sell a patent—a combination boiler and
steam cooker, in one piece.—-No.' 3.
A boy to learn plumbing. A good home
(at Barellan, N.S.W.) and 10s. p.w. to
start. Be taught the trade thoroughly.—
No. 5.
Ex-publican wants management of hotel
(N.S.W. preferred), or negotiate on weekly
rental basis. —No. 7.
Job as watchman, lift-driver, messenger
or any similar light work. Returned soldier :
leg wounds. Last two references cover 121-
years.—No. 8.
Recent critical and biographical references
to Sean O’Casey, the Irish playwright.—
No. 10.
Position on station or farm, N.S.W. pre-
ferred ; 37, married; 20 years’ experience.
-—No. 12.
A. copy of the first number of Art in
Australia. —No. 16.
A thoroughly good second-hand billiard
table. —No. 17.
A sheep-farm, capable of carrying 3000
to 5000 sheep in average seasons. Preferably
in N. S. Wales, but not in the Far West.
Can pay cash. —No. 18.
Copy of “Phil May in Australia.”—No. 19.
Position on cattle- or sheep-station or farm.
Inexperienced. 22, strong, new arrival, wil-
ling go any district (Q.). Small wage and
tucker.—No. 22.
Business. Robbery., etc.
—-—♦
“Simon’’: Though “Jim Carew” (B.
31/3/’27) missed him, a Chinaman boot-
maker, one Jimmy, ran a tumbledown snob-
b ry just outside Mudgee (N.S.W.) on the
Gulgong road 30-odd years ago. Bullockies
used to camp near by; these, with a few
cockies, were his customers.
* * * *
“M.G.S.” : Clapp continues to provide the
public with minor luxuries. His latest is uni-
formed youngsters in green caps, who haunt
the Spencer-street platforms with orders to
perform last-minute offices for hurried pas-
sengers, send wires, find packages and show
visitors from Outback the way to the nearest
church.
* * * *
“.Clerk” ; The duplication of the railway
tracks between Tottenham and South Ken-
sington (Vic.) is costing Clapp £580,000.
About 800 men will be engaged on the job
night and day for two years. The duplica-
tion will enable all goods traffic from the
West and North-West to be handled clear of
the passenger tracks. Another cross-country
goods line between Broadmeadows and
Albion has been recommended to separate in
similar fashion the north-eastern goods
traffic.
“Ring Bolt”: The whaling factory-ship
known as the N. T. Nielsen-Alonso arrived
in the Derwent on March 22 with a cargo of
36,800 barrels of oil, and with a skipper
(R. N. Gjertsen) who marvels at the little
Australia is doing in the way of extracting
wealth from the Antarctic. “Whaling is the
only source that is being tapped,” he said ;
“the great mineral possibilities of the region
are neglected.” Twenty-seven Tasmanian boys
who joined the ship in October lifted between
two and three thousand pounds as their
share of the take.
* * * *
“F.S.” : If the fact that there are civilian
aeroplane services in most of the capital
cities were better known, Australian busi-
ness men would soon get used to ordering
them. A German commercial in Melbourne
got a ring from Sydney at 10 a.m. the other
(lay. Tlic man in Sydney remarked with
regret that if the German were only with
him that day he could seal a fine bit of
business. Aeroplane services are better
advertised in Europe, and the German didn’t
have to think twice. He ’phoned the Austra-
lian Aerial Services and shortly afterwards
was on his way to have afternoon tea with
his Sydney client.
* * * *
“Dihedral”: Wackett and others have
shown that Australians can build machines
which can really fly; and it won’t be long
before aeroplanes are manufactured in Aus-
tralia on a commercial basis. H. E. Broad-
smitli, designer for the Avro co., is looking
over Australian conditions for his firm, which
is considering starting a factory with a
special eye on the construction of a new
light ’plane at a popular price. And the
Larkin co. has contracted to supply the
Defence Department with 10 Moth ’planes,
to be constructed of Australian material
wherever possible.
* * * *
“Royster”: In 1925 British motor manu-
facturers shipped 3187 cars to Australia and
5914 chasses. Last year the figures were
1527 cars and 12,495 chasses, so the Aus-
tralian body-builder is getting some more
jobs of work. Altogether Britain exported
14.865, cars and 14,357 chasses, a total of
29,222, as against 24,886 the previous year.
But the Yankee’s withers are unwrung. Last
year lie sold abroad 550,000 cars and trucks
valued at £95,000,000, and imported only
S20, valued at about £500,000. Britain’s
exports totalled only £9,120.000 (and that
included parts), and its imports, mostly
from America, were valued at £5,316,000.
* * * *
“Pyro”: The millions of dalilers spent on
movies in the land of the wooden nutmeg
haven’t all been wasted. Portrait photo-
graphy is a beneficiary. Up-to-date studios
in the American cities have learned to dis-
pense with daylight, which is variable and
actinically weak, in favor of twin-arc lamps
that contain about 75 per cent, more of the
ultra-violet rays the photographic plate
responds to most effectively. Lighting is
indirect, too; exposures are made in a small
fraction of a second, and every tone and
shadow is given a carefully calculated value.
The business is so much of a fine art that
you pay £30 for a dozen prints as a minimum
in a high-class studio, and if you want to
spend money on perpetuating your dial you
can go up to £250 or higher.
* r * * * *
“Clerk”: The ’bus war between Clapp and
the private owners churning up the road be-
tween Melbourne and Geelong entered on a
new stage the other day. The first round
of the contest resulted in the Commissioners
coming to an unwritten agreement with the
opposition to restore the fare to 5s. • The
privateers then announced a return fare of
Vs. 6d. Clapp's reply was to reduce his
single fare to 3s. !)d. Travellers arc
thoroughly enjoying the scrap. Although
Clapp offers his railway flier, approximately
4000 passengers prefer to bump along the
highway in either- the railway 'buses or those
run by private firms. In the meantime the
cost of upkeep of the road steadily increases.
The general public keeps the ring—and forks
out for the wear and tear.
“Clerk”: A Federal civil servant friend
who feels that selling drinks in Melbourne
would be better for his health than doing a
perish in Canberra has been making inquiries
about suburban pubs. Here are the terms
offered by one retiring bung: Ingoing, £lO,O(Xi
(for a three-years’ lease) ; rent, £2O a week;
compensation levy under Licensing Act,
£lOOO a year (estimated). The civil servant
is now negotiating for the lease of a saveloy
and coffee run.
* * # *
“N. Bear”: One of the presents handed
to the Yorks by Sydney Lud Mayor Mostjn
was a casket of perfume upon which the
Goodwill Cologne Co., of Dulwich Ilill
(N.S.W.), had spent a lot of thought. It
was Australian in everything but the name
of the liquid contents. The box was of
Australian-made plywood, covered with kan-
garoo skin ; the fittings and the Royal crest
on the cover were fashioned of Australian gold
by Australian craftsmen ; the lining of purple
silk poplin came off a Sydney loom; the cut-
glass decanter was an Australian product,
and the stuff inside, though answering to
the name of eau-de-Cologne and smelling
accordingly, never saw the Rhine. It was
compounded at Dulwich Hill.
“Sierra”: “F.N.W.” says (B. 31/3/'27)
that I employ a warped method of
reckoning marine progression in com-
paring the P. and 0. Ballarat un-
favorably with some of the windjammers
of half a century back. Still, in these days
of speed a 13-knot mailboat is surely: an
anachronism. On her last trip the Ballarat
never made a day’s run that could not lave
been beaten by the average clipper of- yil
years ago; and her 33-day passage from
Cape Town to Sydney actually has been
beaten by a sailing ship, with a week to
spare. As for the statement that travellers
prefer comfort to speed, a reasonably fast
passage between London and Sydney would
surely be more comfortable than a dreary
55-days’ crawl. Such travelling, I repeat,
does not show a very great advance in half
a century.
*** * *
“N.Iv.C.” : Portland (Vic.) has still hopes
that the deep sheltered bay, the headquarters
of the whaling industry in the days of the
Heiitys, may come into its own again. Warr-
nambool with its railway robbed it of much
of its trade, but all attempts to give Warr-
nambool a decent harbor have proved
futile. The bigger ships, like those of the
Singapore line, cannot enter it, so Baltic
timber and other imports are. unloaded at
Portland add conveyed by feeder ships to
Warrnambool. The feeders bring back the
return freight, mostly milk products. Swed-
ish and Irish boats call for milk, wheat and
hides. The other day there were five ships
in Portland Bay, beside a shoal of little
craft. Owing to the poor railway service.
Portland is still handicapped for the Wim-
mera wheat, but if bigger steamers should
take to calling in, road transport might
remedy that.
* * * *
“G.8.L.”: Touching the discovery of gold
by assistant-surveyor James Mcßrien, near
the Fish River, between Rydal and Bathurst,
in February, 1823 (B. 17/3/’27), Mcßrien’s
field-book records that he found “numerous
particles of gold in the sand on the hills
convenient to river.” Count Strzelecki, who
found pvrites near Hartley (N.S.W.) in
1839, reported to the Government that this
contained only sufficient gold to attest its
presence. Strzelecki must have forwarded
specimens of rocks to Sir R. Murchison in
England, for in 1844 this scientist told the
Royal Geographical Society that he could
not but recognise a singular uniformity be-
tween the Australian Cordilleras and the
auriferous Ural mountains. In 1846 he
received confirmation of this theory in the
shape of specimens of gold quartz from Aus-
tralia. He then strongly advised Cornish
miners to emigrate to Australia and look
for- gold. According to the Quarteeu
Review, of June-September, 1852, this
advice, “printed in Cornish papers
mitted to Sydney, stimulated inquiry.” Sev-
eral persons in the colony wrote to Murchi-
son in 1848 stating that they had detected
gold. Murchison then tried to induce Bari
Grey, Colonial Secretary, to encourage
further prospecting, but was told that m>
Lordship “feared that the discovery of go*"
would be very embarrassing to a wool-
growing country.” Clearly gold was known
to exist in this country long before H a r
greaves struck it in 1851 on the Macquarn
River


□
|==3
>
c »
B
♦
v
\
m
Service!
Graham Brothers Trucks, Com-
mercial Cars and Buses are built
so simply and so ruggedly that
they need little attention.
But service is always right at hand
when needed. There are no long
delays waiting for repair parts.
Complete stocks of genuine parts
are carried.
Graham Brothers repair parts are
manufactured with the same skill
and care and high-grade materials
as the trucks themselves.
Graham Brothers Trucks are built
for dependable transportation, and
every facility is at hand to keep
them at work.
Qraham Brothers Trucks and Commercial Cars
meet 91 % of all haul ing requirements.
f-Ton Chassis, £260; 1-Ton Chassis, £325;
l£-Ton Chassis, £445; 2-Ton Chassis, £485.
Way mouth Motor Co., Ltd.,
42-48 Waymouth Street,
Adelaide.
Austral Motors, Ltd.,
Brisbane and Townsville.
The Standardised Motors, Ltd.,
252 Castlereagh Street,
Sydney.
Canada Cycle & Motor Co. (Victoria) Pty., Ltd.,
352-58 Latrobe Street,
Melbourne.
Winter-bottom Motor Co., Ltd.,
199 St. George’s Terrace,
Graham Brothers
Trucks
BUILT BY TRUCK DIVISION OF DODGE BROTHERS, INC.
SOLD BY DODGE BROTHERS
DEALERS EVERYWHERE


.!
/g
<!i
7
i.efr üßond's take
charge of those
■vitaifew inches
&
i
<sSK
\ •
ri
a
w^"
«a.
ronv
Tn
co
Quality
turns the scale in favour
of Bond's Half Hose
A 7TdEN your mercer opens up Bond’s Half
’ * Hose for your inspection, you are at once
taken with the desirable patterns in which they
are woven. You find the very colorings to please
you whatever your ta§te and the very texture
}oa prefer—Cotton, Silk and Cotton, Silk and
Wool, or all Wool.
Then you remember that they are made in Australia by
Bonds organisation and you recolledt that there is no hosiery
with a finer reputation to maintain. So you say to your mer-
cer "Thanks, I'll take some of those, and those and those ....
Four Textures Fifteen Patterns —-
Sixty colorings for your selection.
HALF-HOSE
Australia by the EMPLOYEES of GEO. A. BOND & CO. LTD. - All States, New Zealand and South Africa
Manufacturers of Bond’s Hosiery, Half-Hose, Underwear, Towels, Sheeting - Pioneer Australian Cotton Spinners


SHOE
Men who Cure
om
POST FREE
Men's All Patent:
| Shoe, smart style,
easy fitting, also
inTan. Black Kid.
6 Black Calf Half
Sijes. DgEfitting *
249 PITT Sl:°fi ,uum, ‘ ,kc,uh -.
For They are Jolly Good Fellows.
RESCH’S
LAGER, DINNER ALE,
PILSENER & STOUT.
RESCH’S
BITTER ALE.
AUSTRALIA’S BEST BITTER.
A nd so say all of us.
Western Australian Distributors:
BURNS, PHILP &CO., LTD., PERTH AND GERALDTON. n
SPORTING
NOTIONS
Under the Whip
There was too much hurry and bustle
about the A.J.C. programme at YVarwick Farm
on Saturday. Eight races in three hours
and a quarter may suit people who go to
the “ponies,” but A.J.C. crowds like their
intervals longer, especially when there are
big meetings coming on. Matters were made
worse by a ten-minutes’ hold-up at the bar-
rier before the third race. After that those
who wanted to see how horses with im-
portant Easter engagements looked were
given very little time for such study. _
The temper of patrons was not improved
by the shock administered to them in the
Chipping Norton Stakes. Therein Amounis
(20 to 1), who had run last to Limerick,
Windbag and Valicare in the Itawson Stakes,
nine furlongs, at Rosehill on the previous
Saturday, and was meeting them on precisely
the same terms, beat them decisively over 10
furlongs, run in 2min. s|sec. Pantheon and
Valicare (each 7 to 1) led into the straight,
and for a moment the mare looked like win-
ning. but she faded quickly when Limerick
(6 to 4) and Windbag (3 to 1) challenged;
then Tooliey brought Amounis on the outside
with a great run and the Magpie gelding
settled the lot of them. He won by three-
quarters of a length from Limerick, who
was ridden with no great judgment —he was
allowed to make a lot of the early running
and was then beaten for an opening in the
straight—with Windbag a length and a
quarter behind the Maoriland youngster,
Valicare a fair fourth and Pantheon next.
There was some hooting when Amounis re-
turned to the weighing enclosure, but no
inquiry was held. Windbag and Spearfelt,
for whom there was a bit of backing at 20
and 16 to 1, both pulled up groggy, and on
Monday they were withdrawn from the
Sydney Cup.
The 20 starters for the Liverpool Handi-
cap, six furlongs, included seven or eight
Doncaster candidates, and those who failed
should, perhaps, not be discarded, for it
was a scrambling sort of race. Per-
suasion (5 to 2) and her harshly-treated
stable-companion Bairn (friendless) made
most of the running, pursued by Calmest.
Lile Queen, Chrystal and Suggrapho, and
there were cries of “Persuasion walks in!’
But she had been hard ridden from barrier-
rise to get the lead and when Lile Queen
(10 to 1) tackled her she showed no fight;
Lile Queen went on to win by a length and
a quarter from the unfortunate Calmest (10
to 1) who was a neck ahead of Don Moon
(12 to 1) and Garrula (33 to 1), whose
owners divided third money. The time was
lmin. 13isee. Lile Queen, a natty little
four-year-old bay mare by Sir JDighton—-Lile
Lass, is trained by J. H. Gainsford for F.
Gahan, a Sydney bookmaker, and was ridden
by the former pony jockey E. Bartle. She
is very smart at six furlongs, but has yet
to prove that she can go a good mile. Don
Moon put in a fast finish, and Vaals (4 to
1), who was solidly backed, was close to
the place-getters after seeming to be ham-
pered when his run. He has been
pulled out of the Doncaster.
The shrewd crowd behind Bravado backed
him from tens down to sixes for the first
division of the Cabramatta Handicap, and
the English horse (he is by Pommern —Folly)
beat a good-quality field of 17 in fine style.
Lausanne, who shared favoritism with Chris
(5 to 1 was the price), was the first to
challenge the importation, who had led for
seven furlongs, but was soon disposed of,
nor did Pigeon Pie (7 to 1) and Val-
paraiso (12 to 1) ever look like catch-
ing the winner, although they were
placed second and third. It was a stylish
Doncaster trial on Bravado s part, and John-
stone, who rode him, made some atonement
for a bad error of judgment in the divided
Fairfield Handicap—he went to sleep on
Black Duchess (5 to 1), with the result
that Hustler (33 to 1), slipping up on the
rails, pipped his mount on the post. An-
other good Doncaster trial went to the credit
of Wedding Eve (5 to 2) in the second
division of the Cabramatta, but it wasn’t
so impressive as Bravado's, and not only
because the mare’s time (Imin. 40-4 sec.)
was a second slower than the gelding’s.
In trying to win the Warwick Farm Cup
from end to end at almost a record-breaking
gait—the 12 furlongs were traversed in 2min.
31sec —Munro set Piastoon (favorite at 7
to 2) a severe task. Rawhetu (any price)
tried to go with the Queensland horse for a
time; then Luddenham (7 to 1) joined him
half a mile from home, and the pair entered
the straight together. A great tussle ended
in a neck victory for Luddenham; Three
Kings (6 to 1), who came home well, was
a head behind Piastoon, and Bacchus (C to
1), who began slowly and finished very
fast, according to his custom, was almost
on terms with the Vic. horse. Luddenham,
who has come good at last —for that Simp-
son, a decidedly clever jockey, is largely
responsible-—carried a 71b. penalty for his
Rosehill success, and will meet most of the
Warwick Farm field on better terms in the
Sydney Cup. Among the beaten lot was
Naos (10 to 1), who did not show up at any
A FAIR QUESTION.
SITE: “Why so cut up?”
H E: “They told me the second horse was a dead cert.”
S HE: “Well, did you ever see a deader one?”
stage of the race; hut he did the same thing
in the same event last year. The Farm is
not his course.
* * * *
On Saturday morning it looked as if the
best lot of horses brought together in Syd-
ney for many years would be at Randwick
for the Easter round. Unfortunately for the
owners and the A.J.C., Spearfelt has broken
down and Windbag is a -doubtful starter;
but with Heroic, Pantheon. Amounis, Vali-
care, Top Gallant, Count Cavour and Lim-
erick available, the w.f.a. fields will still be
high-class. Then the two-year-old engage-
ments, with Royal Feast, The Wensum,
Euston and Cannon over from Victoria,
Paleta representing Maoriland, and Ascalon,
Greenline, Glenariff and Black Duchess doing
battle for N. S. Wales, should be full of
interest. And big fields rather above the
average in quality are likely to contest the
Doncaster Handicap and the Sydney Cup,
each of which looks very open.
At the time of writing, Amounis (9st.
121 b), Top Gallant (9st. 131 b) and Fuji
San (9st. 111 b.) are favorites for the Don-
caster in the order named, but all three have
tremendous weights, and it is a race which
nine-stoners seldom win. This Page would
rather have some of the eight-stoners, notably
Cave Dweller, Persuasion (each Sst. 21b.)
and Bravado (Sst.) ; if the going is heavy
on Saturday (incidentally, it rained on Mon-
day) the top-weights will require to be super-
horses to win. Bravado was a good fourth
in the Epsom and has apparently come on
a lot since; Persuasion and Cave Dweller
have recent form to recommend them, and
the latter is wonderfully well. Then there
are Don Moon (7st. 121 b) and Wedding Eve
(7st. 111 b.), both good horses, and nicely
handicapped. The winner may come from
one of this five.
Heroic (9st. 131 b.) and Limerick (Sst.
41b.) are favorites for the Sydney Cup. Lim-
erick is to be preferred on the score of
weight, but he has yet to show that he can
stay two miles. There is no doubt as to
Naos (Sst.) in that respect, and Bacchus
(Sst.) also shapes like a two-miler, while
Piastoon (7st. 121 b.) has won over the dis-
tance. He gave Sum King 111 b. and a beat-
ing in the Brisbane Cup, running the distance
in 3min. 27sec., and Sum King was by no
means a bad colt at the time. The best-
handicapped animal in the race is Ludden-
lmm (fist. 71b.). and though he was a sad
disappointment in past seasons, it would be
ridiculous to refuse him a chance on his
recent running. However, it is in Piastoon’s
favor that lie is speedy enough to take up a
good position early, and he is as game as
they make them. Some selections :
Autumn Stakes, 12 furlongs, w.f.a.: Heroic,
1; Pantheon, 2.
Doncaster Handicap: Bravado, 1; Wedding
Eve, 2; Don Moon, 3.
Sires’ Produce Stakes, seven furlongs; Royal
Feast, 1; The Wensum, 2 ; Glenariff, 3.
A..T.C. St. Leger, 14 furlongs: Limerick, 1;
Epilogue, 2.
Toeal Handicap, 12 furlongs: Piastoon (Sst.
101 b.) or Bacchus (Sst. 71b.), 1: Johnnie
Jones (Sst. 01b.), 2; Naos (Sst. 91b.), 3.
Sydney Cup, two miles: Piastoon, 1; Naos,
2; Bacchus, 3.
* * * *
Notwithstanding club secretaries’ com-
plaints that wireless sets and starting-price
bookmakers are affecting tlieir attendances,
there were plenty of people at Sandown Park
(Vic.) on Saturday, and they certainly got
their money’s worth. Close finishes were
the order of the day, and the last two events,
both mile handicaps, resulted in dead heats;
in one the owners divided, and the other was
run off. The long straight at Sandown was
thought to favor last year’s Warrnambool
Cup winner, Anan Louise, and she was a
9-to-4 favorite for the Park Handicap, 10
furlongs, but in a very close finish Duncan’s
mount, Spear Maiden (7 to 2), just touched-
off Miss Disraeli (8 to 1) ; Anan Louise was a
good third. It was quite a triumph for the sex.
Spear Maiden, who is by Spearhead—Snow
Song, is owned and trained by W. Leyslion,
who knows how to place his string; the time
was 2min. 9sec. Duke Honor (4 to 1), a
Duke Foote gelding, made one act of the
Two-year-old Handicap, winning by five
lengths from Laity (20 to l),with Tellustar
(10 to 9 on) third. In the Plate, six fur-
longs, the Tea Tray colt Tea Bell (3 to 11
just beat the favorite Palelight (2 to 1). Tea
Bell, a recent: Maorilaiul purchase, scored at
his first start in Australia at Werribee. He
is a slippery customer and should win again
soon.
* * * *
“Reformed Urger”: I see some coves in
Paris have cleaned up a parcel in foreign-
exchange dealin’, through workin’ an un-
licensed wireless set. This radio is crabbing
the s.p. game here, too. Th’ bint in th’
pub where I spend me We’n’s’dee an’ Sat’dee
arvos used to take th’ slips till th’ telo.
message come through. Now she rings off
at advertised startin’-time. Too many of
th’ talent nowadays is in touch with an
under-tli’-lap set, and since tli’ results have
begun t’ get put on the air for th’ racin’
editions, they’ve made th’ pace willin’ —
w’ile there was any to make.
“O’Rooke”: The Irish JTree State taxes
bookmakers and forbids them to operate on
races beyond its borders, enforcing this rule
by a strict supervision of the Post and Tele-
graph Department. The result has evidently
been to cramp the odds; anyway, the
F.S. Government (probably anticipating
Winston Churchill in this, as it did in tax-
ing fielders) has resolved to introduce the
tote. It was influenced by a deputation of
leading Irish horsebreeders and racing men,
one of whom, Senator J. J. Parkinson, de-
scribed as the most successful owner in
Ireland last year, testified to having been
only £lO ahead of it at the end of the sea-
son. The Senator must have been dead
lucky. How in thunder did the boys come
to miss that tenner?
“Riverina” : While practising in Taranaki,
a popular’medico, how in the M.L. Health
Department, was a keen but raw amateur
rider. He owned, and rode, some good nags,
but the public showed an unflattering opinion
of his ability as a jockey, by neglecting his
mounts on the tote. Thus when his number
went up first there was invariably a sub-
stantial dividend —one soared over the £5O
mark. The doc. took successes and reverses
with unfailing cheerfulness. As he rode
back to the weighing-enclosure after a victory
on his horse Wai-iti, he glanced at the
“board,” which told the usual tale. “Another
thumping div.,” he chuckled; “but / paid
it —not Wai-iti !”
M.Q. (and Rafferty) Rules
If Jimmy Kelly (Bst. 71b.) had a punch
like George Tosh, the Temora farmer, there
would have been two Renown lads minus
boxing renown after the bouts at the Sydney
Stadium on Saturday night. For round
after round the clever little Sydney copper-
top hit Stoker Cockerill (Bst. 6Jib.) where
and when he liked, but there wasn’t explo-
sive enough behind his wallops to stop his
man from coming back for more. The sea-
farer took the upper hand in the lOtli and
11th. He was still whanging at a tiring
opponent in the 12th, when Kelly, trying an
uppercut, got too close and the punch landed
on forbidden territory. Joe Wallis answered
an appeal in the affirmative.
Tosh’s opponent was Seaman Pai’sons,
who, at lOst. 71b., conceded lib. Parsons
was a gale, but Tosh was a hurricane. Both
bled freely in the first l’ound and the blows
could have been heard out at the front
door. The seaman fought desperately and
hit hard, but Tosh blocked a lot of them
and hit harder. Three times in the third
he spread Parsons on the canvas. The second
time the brave fellow just beat the clock,
and he rose only to* run into the centre of a
cyclone. Under stress of the blow he went
to his beam ends and Admiral Wallis
ordered him home for docking and repairs to
his damaged top-hamper. Tosh will be a big
factor among the welters if he cares to
pursue the business.
* * * *
Tommy Fairhall (N.S.W.) carried Jack
•Tones through some of the nine rounds the
pair boxed at Melbourne Stadium on Satur-
day night. Fairhall dropped the Welshman
for nine seconds in the first round with a
(Continued on paye 1{1.)
RONDEAU OF REQUISITION.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“Helen Wills, the tennis star, has issued her first
book of verse.”
When Helen wills the muse to woo,
No doubt her task she’ll deftly do,
And prove as apt to rhyme or scan
As to extend “Six-love” Suzanne.
Fair athlete, and bluestocking, too,
Promise the pen you'll soon eschew,
And to the racquet turn anew ;
For eager asks each faithful fan:
“When, Helen Wills V”
If it be vain to seek that clue
Then here’s another overdue;
What is the day on which you plan
To prove Lenglen an “also ran”?
Or must we wait and get our cue,
When Helen wills?
N.S.W.
J. K. H.


\
V ?
i
NVr
Pif
rL
T?
$
m
m
?£$ y ■■ £<
.W
ir
p
7
\
A
7
*4
#
rtainly m can't
go wrong buying a
Westinghouse
plant
tf
4♦♦ # i 4
“Dad, don’t you think it’s time we bought a
power-plant? To have electric light and power
in the house would be great, but there are also
dozens of places outside where we could use the
power.”
“Yes, my boy, that’s all right. But I don’t know
that we could work it. Now, if anything went
wrong”
“Oh, but nothing can go wrong. They’re so easy
to operate and easy to look after. I’ve been
reading a lot of literature about the Westing-
house”—
“Did you say Westinghouse? Now that name
means something. I remember it had a wonder-
ful reputation when I was a boy. But I didn’t
know they made power plants. Certainly, we
can’t go wrong buying a Westinghouse plant.”
if These @
Features Make
WESTINGHOUSE
an Entirely Safe
Buying Proposition.
EASY TO OPERATE.
This is not by any means a catch
phrase. Westinghouse IS easy to
operate. It starts itself at the touch
of a lever—stops itself automatically
when the battery is sufficiently
charged. You need not wait around
to shut off the engine. There’s no -
thing more for you to do after the
engine is started.
OPERATES ECONOMICALLY.
The name Westinghouse is a guaran-
tee that the plant is built to give
trouble-free, long and economical
service. It operates on kerosene, and
it is positively guaranteed that one
gallon of kerosene operating in a
Westinghouse plant will generate
three times the candle-power as the
same gallon will generate in the best
and most efficient kerosene lamp
procurable.
IS COMPACT, RUGGED AND
SIMPLE.
Two or three minutes’ inspection
convinces you that for compactness,
rugged strength and simplicity, the
Westinghouse is unsurpassed. Its
compactness is due to the absence of
all complicated devices that would
need adjustment. The ruggedness,
together with a minimum of vibra-
tion, is proof that the plant will
stand hard service.
Simplicity is a distinct asset, for yo’a
know that simplicity in mechanical
equipment means longer life and
more satisfactory service.
If you do not own a power plant,
you should get particulars of the
almost unbelievable assistance and
comfort that a Westinghouse plant
can give you.
If you own an inefficient plant, you
should get particulars of the absolute
dependability of Westinghouse.
A letter to the Distributor in your
State will bring complete informa-
tion.
Li
Westinghouse
farm Light & Power plant
WESTINGHOUSE DISTRIBUTORS:
ELECTRIC HOME LIGHTING, LTD., 143 Castlereagh Street,
Sydney.
DOMESTIC ENGINEERS & PLUMBERS’ SUPPLIES 00.
M, J. BATEMAN, LTD., 34 Milligan Street, Perth.
W. R. CARPENTER & CO., LTD., 16 O’Connell Street, Sydney;
PTY., LTD., 383 Latrobe Street, Melbourne, Victoria.
ELPHINSTONES, LIMITED, Adelaide Street, Brisbane,
Queensland.
MECHANICAL SUPPLIES, LIMITED, 79 Grenfell
Street, Adelaide, S.A.
WESTIHGMOLSEA
ELECTRIC J t
and at Rabaul, New Guinea (South Sea Island
Distributor).
W. A. CROWLE, LTD., 161 Castlereagh Street, Sydney
(Factory Distributor).


Babies
thrive on
R
c;
it is so
ourishina and
asy to digest
In 4 sizes
of ell Chemists & Stores
British Australian Wool Realisation Association
Limited
(IN LIQUIDATION)
General Meeting.
NOTICE IS HEREBY given that a GENERAL MEETING of the Contributories of the above-
named Association will be held at Anzac House, Collins Street. Melbourne, on Thursday, the fifth
day of Mav 1927, at 3 p.m., for the purpose of presenting a Report of the Liquidators covering
the operations of the Association for the year 1926 together with Statements of Account for: —
(a) The period from Ist January, 1926, to 10th June, 1926, on which latter date the Asso-
ciation was placed in Voluntary Liquidation;
(b) The period from 10th June, 1926, to 31st December, 1926, during which the Association has
been in Voluntary Liquidation ; and
(c) Consolidated Statements covering the full twelve months of the year 1926.
J. M. HIGGINS
W. STEVENSON FRASER LIQUIDATORS.
540-542 Little Collins Street, CHAS. R. MURPHY
Melbourne,
19th March, 1927.
jf g j/, e above meeting is NOT the general meeting of the Association, which, at the end of
the first year from the date of the commencement of the liquidation, must be summoned in order
to comply with the provisions of the Victorian Companies Act.
This latter meeting will be called by advertisement at a date subsequent to 10th June, 1927.
Ŗ
Motorists* —
Are delighted with the
speed and smooth run-
ning qualities .of their
razors when they lather
with
VELVET
SHAVING STICK
(S.l lit 4. KITCHEN a SONS PIT. LTD.
cnf/J
VELVET
SHAVING STICK
I
I
hPflvv right to the jaw. In the tenth the
ridit was sent over again and the Welshman
had to be out of the ring.
"Tito” • A Parisian theatrical manager has
discovered in Georges Carpentier an alleged
r iient for the musicomedy stage, and is will-
ino- to pay Carpentier 6000 francs a night
J the pleasure of exhibiting it. Even
though the franc is still less than a fifth of
its pre-war value the salary offered is con-
siderable, aud a unanimous howl of “Pour-
uoi v” has gone up from a protest meeting
,if professional players, the best of whom are
not collecting anything like that sum. Car-
nentier has accepted the offer, mainly because
|,o felt that his previous occupation, the
■ lie of aluminium saucepans, was not likely
t‘, reduce that empty ring in the money-
-I,ox which has been disturbing him lately.
# * * *
“Snow”: Tell “White Horse” (B.
■’4/3/27) that Sydney wasn't the only place
where Fitzsimmons fought for small purses.
I arry Foley certainly wasn’t noted for
4nerosity to the pugs, appearing at his hall;
still. Fitz’s record in Sydney was nothing
to rave over, llis first fight iu America,
against Australian Billy McCarthy, was for
a purse of £250. Later, after winning the
world’s middleweight title, and cleaning up
most of the heavies in between times, he
fought Jim Hall for what was supposed to
be a purse of £BOOO and a side wager of
£4OOO. The winner’s cut really amounted
to £lB6O. When he lost the heavyweight
title to Jeffries, Robert’s share of the gate
(£17.000) came to £5200. Contrasting these
amounts with the huge sums handed out of
late years to alleged champions like Firpo,
Willard and Tunney, that 30-bob purse at
Foley’s wasn’t so bad after all.
Car and Cycle
“Lytt”: Major Segrave’s car isn’t a hap-
hazard affair by any means. It was designed
by Louis Coatalen, the Sunbeam co.’s star
engineer, and the laboratories at the Sunbeam
AND IT A ROLLS BOYCE!
“What did the Moke in the Mg car get no
mid about?”
“I dunno. ’E offered me a lift an’ all I
says is ‘No thanks —I done without Henry
Ford all me life, and I ain’t got no
use for him now.’”
factory and at Vickers’ worked for months to
find out what happens when a thing on wheels
hits the atmosphere at over three miles a
minute. They couldn’t solve the problem
of steering a three-ton car at such a speed
—it must run straight, and that is all there
is about it. Wind-pressure gave them a lot
to think about. At 200 m.p.h. it registers
0251 b. to the square inch and throws a
load on the front of the car that absolutely
upsets the balance of traction, even in a
fore-and-aft-engined contraption like the
Slug. Another point was to avoid the com-
plications that must ensue from a tyre tread
coming off under centrifugal force. The
result of all these researches was a careful
modelling of the car’s exterior to even up
windage, the complete enclosure of the
wheels, a means of synchronising two big
engines, and a new method of tyre con-
stuction, to meet unprecedented strains.
* * * *
Major Segrave’s records at Daytona Beach,
Florida, complied with the requirements of
the A.A.A., having been computed from the
mean time of runs up and down the beach.
With the wind he achieved 2071- m.p.h. on
two occasions. His cable to the Sunbeam fac-
tory held out the hope that 220 m.p.h. could
be compassed by the “Slug,” the 1000-h.p. car
which the factory assembled out of a pair
of Suubeam-Matabele aircraft engines, a
couple of square yards of Vickers armor-plate
and sundries. The Sunbeam and Vickers
laboratories were waiting anxiously for proof
of the correctness of their calculations of
w T ind resistance and metal endurance. As a
result of the sensational test, British car
manufacturers will be enabled at some future
date to cut a lot of weight off their produc-
tions, and, they hope, to steal a further march
on the Yankees in the matter of miles per
gallon.
* # * *
Tommy Maher, the Sydney motor-cyclist,
who died as the result of an accident at
Brisbane speedway last week, had something
of a gamble with Fate. The meeting would
not have taken place at all but for the
unexpected ending of a strike of riders.
Maher and his machine came a cropper in
the third heat of the A grade handicap, and
another after a re-start, Maher having to
be carried off the track. Recovering, he
was allowed to take the place of another
injured rider in the final event, the Royal
Tour match of a mile. Once more, machine
and rider turned turtle, and this time with
fatal results.
A census was taken on three recent days
of cars on Sydney suburban roads, to ascer-
tain the proportion of closed and unenclosed
cars. On each occasion 250 cars were
counted, and the verdict was: First day,
closed, 34; open, 216; second, 26, 224:
third, 31, 219. Astonishing how little varia-
tion there was!
“Lytt”: The revival of motor-cycle and
side-car racing at Maroubra (N.S.W.) has
caused many to wonder why these outfits
are still popular when nice, comfortable cars
are so cheap. There’s more than one reason.
Lower running cost than a car; more speed
than any car at the same cost could com-
pass, and, above all, the special fascination
of three-wheeler driving. Many a seasoned
motor-cyclist who has bought a car has gone
back to his first love, finding car-driving too
tame.
* * * *
“Split Pin” : A tip of peculiar interest to
Australian motorists has been broadcast by
an English firm which sells a lot of cars
on this side. If a car is bogged in mud or
stuck in loose sand deflate the back tyres.
Provided the engine can spin the back
wheels, the car will pull herself out.
The Nineteenth Hole
“Claypan”: Golf is challenging the
supremacy of two-up in western Queensland.
Every other township has its links, with
rolled antbed or clay greens, and the station
that cannot parade at least a nine-hole course
has Mud for its name. The other day
Cliarleville. once the G.11.Q. of Guns for the
Western shearing season, invited a special
party of city-bred celebrities _ to attend a
tourney, among them Ivo Whitton, Austra-
lia’s open champion, and D. Garr, the “boy”
open champion of Queensland. If there was
any doubt whether the goannas used to steal
the balls at that old-time Brisbane club (B.
31/3/’27) there is none about the willing-
ness and ability in that direction of the
Queensland crow. Some western clubs are
thinking of passing special local rules defining
the penalty for “crow-ball.”
* # * *
“Ploughman”: A distressing feature of the
post-war reaction in Britain was the loss
of his form by George Duncan, the great
professional goifer. Business
men threw aside their Board
of Trade reports to inquire
whether Duncan had regained
his putting, and adverse
replies visibly affected the
general market. Now (thank
Heaven!) comes a cable re-
portin'- “the complete restora-
tion” of Duncan. It seems
that he took an intensive
putting course in private be-
fore a slow-motion cine-
camera. and the gradual
revelation of his golfing vices
helped him to correct them.
There’s no doubt the loss of
a putting sense is a tragedy.
I hastily recall Bronson, who
tried every remedy, without
success till, in despair, he
resorted to whisky. It did
no good, however, and he was
finally asked to resign from
the club. The committee
took this course because,
when playing in a foursome
with the Bishop of Boulia.
Bronson threw himself face
downward on the 13th green
and, using the handle of his
putter as a cue, cannoned off
his opponent’s attempt at a stymie into the
tole - *
“Drapener”: As holing out in one is
costly, since it involves drinks for all-comers
at the expense of the fluker, the Warwick
(Q.) golfers are in a quandary over this
one. Playing on the local links, myopponent
pulled his drive off the sixth tee into some
thick timber. The ball hit a tree and, re-
bounding some hundred yards, holed on the
fifth green. Is there a “shout” due, and, if
so, from whom?
[lt would seem that several shouts are due.
One from the man who holed out in one,
for, whether the green in question was in
front of or behind him, the drinks are un-
questionably on him. The same person
should certainly shout again for putting up
what is probably a world’s record. Another
shout would appear to be due from “Drap-
ener” for his nerve in sending such a yarn
to a paper.]
Racquet and Bawl
“Ivelby”: I have before me a London paper
deploring the fact that Australian tennis
sportsmanship is so bad that an Australian
Davis .Cup team is sent away only when
it appears to have a chance of winning.
The paper asks what would happen to the
event if other countries did the same. There
is a modicum of truth in the charge. The
important point is that our attitude is being
misinterpreted by other competitors. It the
tennis authorities were really in earnest,
they could cut down expenses materially by
the simple expedient of asking wealthy Aus-
tralians in England to provide board ana
lodging for the team. Then it' it reached
the final and had to go to America, the gate
would pay its exes, there.
“Poacher” : Even if the crown has passed
to the Davis Cup tourney, much of the old-
time glory clings to the English lawn-tennis
championships at Wimbledon._ The singles
title is as keenly coveted as it was m the
days of the Renshaws and the Dohertys, to
say nothing of later days, when our own
Norman Brookes and poor Tony Wilding
were kings of the game and the American
uprising was still in the future. _ This year s
entry includes most of the international
stars, including Tilden, Lacoste, Borotra,
Cochet, Brugnon and Raymond, the South
African. Gerald Patterson was billed to
represent Australia, but he is not making the
trip. Women include the beautiful D’Alvarez,
Mile. Ylasto and Mrs. Godfree; a newcomer
will be Miss Heine from South Africa, re-
ported as something out of the bag.
* * * *
“15-30”: William T. Tilden, who intends
to become a professional at the end of the
year, doesn’t look like retiring from amateur-
ism in a blaze of triumph. Though he con-
tinued as an amateur with the announced
intention of collecting all the victories pos-
sible to one who was stroke-perfect and in
the pink of condition, he has already gone
down to young Lott at Halifax by three
sets to one, and has again been licked by
the Spaniard, Alonzo, in a five-set exhibition
match at Washington. Though Lott isn t
of Davis Cup rank, he cleaned up Tilden m
sterling fashion, whilst Alonzo, who dropped
two out of the first three sets, captured
the next two —one to love and the last with
the loss of three games. My own impression
is that Tilden is on the down grade. Pheno-
menal as his record has been, he is beginning
to feel the stress of an eminence the very
maintenance of which in spectacular and
exhausting circumstances has worn him stale
before his time. I doubt if any champion
in the history of the game has played so
much as Tilden. Certainly the Dohertys
never did, nor did Brookes nor Wilding nor
any other of the artists of the past. Tilden
is in action all the year round.
BUNKERED.
Tamworth (N.S.W.) furnished a surprise
when Guy Williams, who represented the
Country against City last year, and R. Spen-
cer, captain of Barraba, beat J. O. Anderson
and Jack Crawford in three straight sets:
6-3, 6-3, 6-2. The dose was repeated later
by R. Spencer and A. Emblem of Tamworth,
who settled J. O. and R. O. Anderson: 6-0,
6-3, 8-6. More power to the country players!
The Ins and Outs
J. B. O'Hara, the Melbourne poet who
passed over the other day, may be remem-
bered for his cricket instead of for his rhyme.
In his youth he was a notable patter of the
ball for first-class Vic. teams, and one year
he put up the highest average in senior
cricket. Sporting records are often preserved
when verse, even meritorious verse, is for-
gotten.
* * * *
“H.lv.”: S.A.C.Ads engagement of Patsy
Ilendren as coach recalls that the Wheat
Staters began their cricket history in 1846,
when J. IG. Cocker, an English player,
arrived and established two clubs. The bowl-
ing in those days was nearly all under-arm,
and batting gloves and pads were unknown
luxuries. Early in the ’fifties a sailor named
T. G, LOWRY, skipper of the Maoriland XI
about to invade England.
Wilkins challenged anyone in Adelaide to
play him a single-wicket match for £lO, and
Cocker accepted, and Collected the tar s
tenner. He scored 109 to the victim’s 7.
* * * *
“Dingbat”: The official cricket season in
Queensland closed the other day with Toombul,
which includes Hornibrook _in its ranks,
premiers for the umpteenth time and Valley
two points behind. The Northern State
has enjoyed one of the best and most success-
ful cricket seasons in its history; its debut
in the Sheffield Shield competition has given
the game an impetus from Tweed Heads to
Cape York. Bananaland can now claim
to have two or three players of international
class, and local products at that. Of the
State’s three representatives in Australian
elevens of the past, two, Coningharn and
Hartigan, were outlanders from N.S.VV.;
Maclaren, the fast bowler of Syd Gregory’s
1912 side, was locally grown.
* * * *
“Shrewsbury”: Hughie Trumble, one of
the greatest bowlers this country has pro-
duced, told an interviewer in Maoriland that
Australia’s next eleven would have to be
practically rebuilt. Gregory, Bardsley,
Andrews, Macartney and Mailey would defi-
nitely be out and there were only Ponsford,
Woodfull, Kippax and Oldfield to build on.
Jackson and Rymill, Trumble averred, would
have sound claims. It is curious that such
a bowling genius should have dwelt solely
on the batting side of the team-to-he, since
it is obvious that the only department worth
worrying about is bowling. Batsmen there
are in plenty, but bowlers —where are they?
• » * *
The Sydney first-grade cricket season
closed on Saturday, when Glebe, by holding
Waverley to a draw, remained at the top
of the table. Waverley was only a point
behind Glebe, whose first premiership it is
since 1907-08. Morgan, the all-rounder, and
Ratcliffe, the wicket-keeper, were factors in
Glebe’s success.
* * * *
“Ibn El Issar”: Before the English
cricketers left India, homeward bound, skip-
per Gilligan urged the necessity for a Board
of Control to put Indian cricket on an orga-
nised basis and held up the Australian insti-
tution as an example. If India takes Gilli-
gan’s advice, it should arrange for a change
of the Board’s personnel periodically. The
Australian Board has done great service
for cricket, but there are signs of fossilism
and evidence of an inability to recognise
that the thing was instituted to serve the
cricket public and not rule at its. own sweet
will. Gilligan’s criticism of Indian players
strikes one unexpected note. The batting and
bowling are good, he declares, but the fielding
is bad. With memories of “Ranji” in the
field, this is hard to understand.
(Continued on page 42.)


%
g&dfc?/
mt
883*3!
*ll
vs.
Prime old mellow Virginia blended
with skill, manufactured with
-always the same. That
care-
1S
why Kensitas are and will remain
ALWAYS “as good as really good
cigarettes can be.”
20 for 1/6
50 for 3/9
100 for 7/6
Kensitas
—the better ciqarette
3. WIX & SONS, l/l D., PICC ADILLY, LONDON, W.l.
Young workers are guarded by legislation
from attempting tasks beyond their years
and physical capacity. Young racehorses
are similarly protected by the regulations
of controlling bodies like the A.J.C. and the
V.R.C.; you don’t see two-year-olds going
a mile and a half or further, or racing over
the jumps. But when we come to the human
element in sport there is a difference. In
professional boxing we have had the spec-
tacle of lad after lad being bashed into an
untimely grave or into a home for incurables
owing to the barbarous 20-round business,
still legislatively permitted. And amateur
sport is by no means free from the tendency
to sacrifice youngsters on the altar of suc-
cess, though the motive is not so sordid. At
secondary-school sports, for instance, it is
no uncommon thing to see a boy of 15 or
16 sent out to engage in an exhausting pro-
gramme of flat races, from the 100 yards to
the mile, in one afternoon, with perhaps a
high or long jump in between. These boys are
rarely heard of later in senior and inter-
state competitions, and some of them will
pay still more severe penalties in after life.
The amateur swimming world is particu-
larly plagued with fools who egg promising
kids on to subject their constitutions to
dangerous hazards. The extravagant press
booming of 16-year-old Andrew Charlton
when he first broke into the record list is
fresh in memory. Charlton was acclaimed
a swimming miracle, and after his defeat
of Borg the chorus had to hunt for fresh
superlatives. When his relatives demurred
at sending the lad to the Olympic Games at
Paris the boomers rent their garments and
cast ashes on their heads. Charlton’s guar-
dians had in mind the youth’s future, of
far greater importance than a few transient
swimming records. That mattered nothing to
the other side, which saw reflected glory for
itself in the swimmer’s continued success,
and his father was boisterously accused of
being “a bad sport.” In the end Charlton
was permitted to go to Paris. When he
returned victorious the cry that he should
keep in the limelight swelled again, this time
in vain. The wisdom of his two years’
respite from record-breaking was shown in
his form against the Japanese on his brief
return to the game. There is every reason
to suppose that if he is available for the
next Olympiad he will be all the better for
another year’s spell; and he will assuredly
be thankful for his father’s wise forethought
in his future life on the land.
In spite of this wholesome example, the
craze for exploiting immature swimmers is
getting worse than ever. At present it
revolves round a group of girl swimmers,
especially Edna Davey, who is 17 years of
age. Edna has undoubtedly proved herself
the best Australian woman swimmer over
“distances” since the famous Fanny Durack;
but she has overdone it. During the 1926-27
season she has swum in many club, State and
Australian championship events, over dis-
tances from 50yds. to a mile; and in her
spare time she has been attacking other
people’s records, world or otherwise. She
has won five State and Australian champion-
ships, and established State and world’s
records. Last week, on top of the foregoing,
she was booked to make an attempt on the
Australian 440yds. record, to compete in
the first heat of the State mile champion-
ship, to make a second attempt on the
440yds. record, and to compete in the final
of the mile. A week like that would severely
try such a cast-iron swimmer as Arne Borg.
Miss Davey does not look robust, and it’s
not to be supposed that she can stand much
more of that sort of thing.
But the most glaring example is that of
Jean Cocks. This 11-year-old Bondi girl is cer-
tainly a wonderful swimmer for a mere
baby, but the tasks imposed on her during
the season were shamefully severe, con-
sidering her age. She actually competed in
the race for the 300yds. championship of
N. S. Wales, finishing third to Edna Davey.
One wonders at the mentality of those who
allow a little girl to undergo so tremendous
a strain.
The remedy lies first with the parents
of the youngsters, who should realise the
folly of allowing them to wear themselves
out at the bidding of irresponsible outsiders.
It is also the duty of the different associa-
tions controlling sports and athletics to
devise measures for the protection of imma-
ture performers, taking the A.J.C. or the
V.R.C. as a model. The thing is becoming
such a scandal that Child Welfare Depart-
ments or Societies for the Prevention of
Cruelty to Children will have to move if
guardians and sporting authorities won’t.
Footbrawl
“L.E.”: The abos. may be going to dis-
appear from Vic., as the statisticians say,
but watching the Nichol brothers, from
Tatura, training at Carlton for the football
season, you would find it hard to believe.
Among a crowd of selected athletes both
were noticeable, and no one on the ground
had a finer physique than one of the brothers
—a pocket Hercules, with a great chest and
wonderful legs. Though all muscle, he was
as quick as a cat, for lie is not only a first-
class footballer, but a noted professional run-
ner. Anybody wfio bumped into him soon
realised there must have been something
wrong with the vital statistics. Like Samuels,
the pug. with a punch, he was bubbling
over with zest and joy of action. Nothing
decadent about these abos., who, if not full-
blooded, are true to type.
“Rucker”: The Aussie footballers will
kick off simultaneously in Melbourne and
Sydney—on Saturday, April 30. The only
cloud on the N.S.W. League’s horizon is the
general complaint against that body’s deter-
mination to increase the admission charge
to the “outer” to Is. It is a sacred tradition
of the Australian game that the price to
the proletariat shall be sixpence. Even in
Melbourne and Adelaide, where no other
football code ranks above the common earth-
worm, an increase has been defeated when-
ever pi'oposed, not on motions in the execu-
tive committees, but by the combined howl of
an enraged populace.
* * * *
V. A. Horniman, who has resigned from
the management committee of N.S.W. Rugby
Union to take a trip to England, is one of
the stalwarts of amateur sport in Australia.
Rugby and rowing are his two obsessions,
but he keeps a vigilant eye on the lily-
whiteness of other amateur organisations. He
has filled most of the official positions on the
R.U. and the Rowing Association, and he
managed the Australian eight in 1912 when
that great crew won the Grand Challenge
Cup from Leander at Henley.
* * * *
“Black Out”: The Maoriland Rugby
League has got yet another knock back as a
result of that disastrous tour of England.
W. Carlaw, president of the League and its
backbone in all particulars—he practically
furnished the League with its enclosed ground
in Auckland, called Carlaw Park, which
enabled it to maintain its position—has
resigned. He gave as his reason his utter
disgust at the “strike” which ruined the
English to.ur, and the impossibility of deal-
ing adequately with the strikers, since legal
advice was against issuing a full report of
what happened. Carlaw’s retirement should
be about the last straw, for the League
Council, always an extraneous beast in that
kingdom of the Rugby Union, M.L., has been
sagging at the knees of late.
* * * *
“Gate”: N.S.W. Rugby League, true to
its traditions, has decided to get hold of a
ground of its own in the Illawarra district.
Soccer has been a formidable rival to the
13-a-side game there, and to secure the funds
necessary to combat the round-bail game a
central arena under the League's control
was necessary. That matter has now been
practically fixed, and, if all goes well, the
professional Rugby code will have its hooks
well into the South Coast football following.
It has been a wise policy on the League’s
part. Its aim in the metropolis from the
beginning was the acquirement of the
EDNA DAVEY, the remarkable Sydney
swimmer. She has had much too strenu-
ous a season.
leading grounds, and this it achieved till at
one time it controlled the Sydney Cricket
Ground, the Sports Ground, Wentworth Oval,
North Sydney Oval, Birchgrove Park, Mar-
rickville Oval—every big ground in Sydney,
except the Show Ground. An attempt to
acquire the Show Ground roused the oppo-
sition codes to effective protest and this,
with a couple of bad financial seasons, led
to the League dropping some of its mono-
polies. It still retains its hold on the Cricket
Ground, from a financial point of view the
only arena that really counts in Sydney.
“Adsum” : Is England poor? Attendances
at London football matches on Feb. 8: Three
Cup ties. 150,000 spectators—63,ooo of them
at Stamford Bridge to see Chelsea just beat
Burnley; six professional league matches,
231,000 spectators; 381,000 in Fogopolis
alone. And that doesn't include second or
third league or amateur league gates. The
eight Cup ties in all that day drew 325,000
onlookers, and they dubbed up £23,765 for
their varying thrills.
Miscellaneous
“Huron”: The N.S.W. Lacrosse Associa-
tion celebrated its 40th birthday last week.
The old American-Indian game has waxed
and waned in Australia, coming to its zenith,
perhaps, with the Canadian visit of a gen-
eration or so ago. Brisbane and Perth still
take some interest in the pastime and it
has a strong hold in South Aus. and Victoria.
PAT O'HARA WOOD. His return to form
has been one of the features of the laon-
tennis year.
In the Ma State, however, it seems to affect
a dignified aloofness from the common herd,
which respects its wishes in this respect.
* * * *
“J. High”: One or two of the Sydney
bowling clnbs are trying to wangle permis-
sion from local authority to play bowls on
Sundays. _ Sunday bowls is a commonplace
in Victoria, where Sabbath observance in
other ways is strict. Now that the saltatory
and vociferous game of lawn tennis is per-
mitted anywhere in and about Sydney on
Sunday, there seems no reason why the
most dignified of outdoor pastimes should
not be given a clear spin.
* * * *
“New Brighton”: A N.S.W. team of
bowlers returned from a Maoriland tour the
other day in a chastened spirit, due to the
overwhelming superiority of the All Blacks.
This is an old story, but there is invariably
another tale to tell when the lads from
the other side of the Tasman come over here
and get on to our fast, and often fiery,
greens. The Maoriland rinks are planted
with English grasses, and are much slower;
in fact, they differ from ours as greatly as
English wickets differ from Sydney and Mel-
bourne pitches. Some day, perhaps, the
bowlers will agree to play their inter-
nationals on asphalt rinks, which used to
be popular at Lancashire holiday resorts.
Then they will be able to fight it out on
common ground.
* * * #
“Verneuker”: That lament of forgotten
spiels (B. 31/3/’27) should have included “fly
loo,” once popular in Australian sporting
clubs when the hours dragged. The method
employed was to select two flies on a wall
or table, preferably in the writing-room, and
induce someone to wager his fly against yours
for first “take-off,” as the airmen say. The
writing-room was favored because there was
often some gum handy; a tiny dab of this
on the wall usually anchored a fly, or, at
least, disinclined him to take wing until he
had had a thorough wash and brush up.
Having got this far, you sat down and waited
for a mug. When the latter insisted on
investigating the sedentary insect it was time
to leave.
* * * *
“Kick-off” : The last American mail brought
still another invitation for Andrew Charlton
to visit Honolulu and compete against the
local cracks, as well as Weissmuller and
Takaishi. Charlton will not accept; he may
go to Amsterdam next year, but nothing less
will be allowed to interfere with his training
as a farmer. Still, one would like to see him
meet the American and Japanese champions
in the open-water racing at Honolulu, where
there are no short turns to make a swimming
race one-third pedestrianism and the rest real
water work.
“The Gaffer” : A professional ped. has been
committed for trial in Vic. on a charge of
getting money under false pretences. It is
alleged that he entered for a country Sheffield
(which he won) under a name that wasn't
his, and furnished a list of performances lie
had never put up, taking the usual affidavit
that these were O.K. It recalls "Flourbag"
Harrison. Circumstances demanded that
“Flourbag” should nominate for a N.Q.
handicap giving another man’s name and per-
formances. The sec. had a “screw” at him
and said, “I always understood this Mulli-
gan’s hair was red and yours is white.”
"Bli’ me, yes,” said “Flourbag.” “It turned
like that tli’ night Labor won th’ elections."
The entry was accepted and “Flourbag” duly
collected.
* * * *
“Baomata”: Wliat’s wrong with giving
falconry a “fly” in Australia V It ought to be
practicable in places like the Nullarbor Plain.
When our company of Cameleers was
stationed in the Libyan Desert, the u.c.o.’s
became friendly with a sheik and his family
who inhabited an oasis about 20 miles from
the military post. In return for small gifts
the old chap initiated them into the sport,
which is extensively practised among the
Bedouins, and whenever leave was obtain-
able, hunting became popular among the
troops, the ancient lending the birds and a
son accompanying the expedition. The
game coursed were gazelles and a species of
hare. When hunting, the Arab wears a
stout leather shield from wrist to elbow on
the left arm. The bird (carefully trained,
of course) perches on the shield and is
attached thereto by a leather thong tied to
the leg in a slipknot. A light hood covers
its head. On game being sighted, the hood
is removed, the knot slipped and the bird
tossed in the air. It mounts in a short spiral
flight, and then darts after the largest moving
object visible—generally the gazelle or hare
sighted by the hunter. Unable to kill a
gazelle unaided, the hawk, by striking at
the eyes of the animal, so terrifies and be-
wilders it that it seeks the shelter of the
nearest bush or rock. The bird prevents it
leaving the shelter until the hunter arrives.
It is no trouble to recapture birds after a
kill. They will not leave the animal until
they are rewarded with a titbit from the
tongue or liver. On the rare occasions on
which the quarry escapes, the hawk returns
direct to its master, and expresses its anger
by seeking to tear the wrist on which it
perches. Hence the leather shield.
“Soft Fly” : There is a chance that Aus-
tralian baseballers may see a nine from the
western American universities on this side
next year. “Tod” Ovatt, crack pitcher of
the Leland Stanford nine, is visiting Sydney,
and is looking into possibilities. Baseball has
a good following in most Australian capitals,
and in N.S.W. and Queensland is reaching
out into the country towns. Like several
other good games, it suffers from inability
to secure large enclosed playing grounds, the
football codes and cricket obscuring them in
that direction. This country’s last view of
Yankee ’bailers was in 1914, when the
Chicago White Sox and the New York
Giants dropped in on their exhibition tour
of the world. They drew good gates at Syd-
ney Cricket Ground, where an uninstructed
public appreciated their wonderful fielding
and team play. What made the greatest
impression, however, was their continuous
and abusive chiacking of each other and
the umpire. Strong men who had graduated
with honors in barracking from “the Hill"
at cricket and football battles went away
shedding tears of envy.
* * * *
“Back Marker” : It may be a coincidence,
but following on Tiie Bulletin’s remarks
about _ the dilatoriness of the Australian
Olympic Council in starting preparations to
organise this country’s team to compete at
Amsterdam, a pronunciamento has been
issued by that body to the daily press. Each
of the State Councils—which are exact
replicas of their Federal parent —is
to be supplied "with funds “not exceeding
£100” to aid in coaching selected athletes.
Official tests are to be held in 1928 “to
facilitate selection.” If this business begins
on January 1, 1928. there will be less than
three months available for testing and choos-
ing representatives to compete in a long
series of events. Both sexes will have to
be considered by the selectors. The most
elaborate arrangements will need to be made,
and much money must be raised to land the
team at Amsterdam. There it will have to
be housed, trained and fed. What has the
council done in that direction? A cable
mentions that all the European nations in-
tending to compete, as weal as the Americans,
have made complete arrangements for hous-
ing their representatives and otherwise pro-
viding.for them. Most of them have, indeed,
chosen their teams. Here in Australia
nothing has been done.


Jhis is
Afj
W
It
fe
n
mm
-
OOLDBETIG.
JLHDI3
'gnamodi 'Shmuiis
v
8
m
The
MINGAY
Super Power Eight
There can be only one BEST,
one set which attains to the ulti-
mate point of constructional
superiority, beauty of design
and performance.
The Mingay Super Power Eight
measures up to the ideal stand-
ard in every particular. In tone
and selectivity it has no superior
—in appearance it is genuinely
perfect. Covered by guarantee
and with its vital parts sealed,
it is the “dernier cri” of Radio.
Let us tell you, by demonstra-
tion or mail, the magnificence
of this set, and how easily you
can become an owner.
THE MINGAY RANGE
OF SUPER RADIO.
Super Three
Super Five
Super Five de Luxe
Super Power Eight
Super Portable Five.
Sold for Cash —or the easiest of terms.
Made only by
MINGAY’S WIRELESS
MANUFACTURING, LTD.,
Alma Street,
L-v DARLINGTON. /"
99
aa
[Urn
H
VI
! "
As
5 •'<(
*6.5
ST
\/st'
\
Don’t Miss
Danks* Exhibit
Royal Easter
Show.
ALWAYS SAFE IN A
BIG BLOW
Because the self-governing mechanism suits the speed of the mill
to the velocity of the wind. When a gale blows up the regulator
presses the wheel out of the wind and does not bring it back till
the wind has died down to a safe speed.
OIL ONCE EVERY SIX
MONTHS
That is about all the attention the new
“Billabong” wants. All the gearing is
double, and works in an enclosed oil bath,
making for stability and wear.
WRITE FOR FREE BOOKLET.
BH
a .
MAKERS OF BILLABONC MILLS, PUMPS AND TROUGH INC
JOHN DANKS & SON
324-330 PITT ST. SYDNEY. 391 r 403 BOURKE ST. M ELB


Under
Royal
Warrant
'
Vintage 1917.
Kinti
George V
CHAMPAGNE
IMS)
Australasian Agents
Swift & Company Limited
SYDNEY.
•mem*-*
champagne
'-^rlesllfidsieo^
Reims
PELLISSO N
Cognac Brandy.
lo YEARS OLD.
Australasian Agents—
SWIFT & COMPANY LIMITED, Sydney.
8W1361 for
Reservations.
Wentworth Hotel
Church Hill, Sydney.
SITUATED in a portion of old
Sydney, just a few minutes from
the Theatres, Shopping, G.P.0.,
Circular Quay and the Railway.
Attached to the hotel is the
famous Cafe, with its gorgeous
Palm Court, a splendid Dance
Orchestra and a sparkling C-.baret,
afternoon and evening.
Sydney’s Social Rendezvous.
SYDNEY.
The Finest Restaurant and Dance
Rendezvous in Australasia.
PATRONAGE CONTINUALLY INCREASING.
Capacity: Dining and Supper Dances up to 1100.
For Wedding Receptions, Banquets, Dining and
Supper Dances, inquiries to Manager.
Mon., Tues., Wed., Fri., Dining de Luxe, < -S; 1 ,
10/6; Suppers, 10.30, 6/6. Value and satis-
faction without equal. No charge for three
hours’ dancing on satin-smooth spring floors
a new thrill of real delight.
Thurs. and Sat. Late Gala Nights. Continental
Dinner from 7.30, 21/-. Suppers, 10.30. 1
This evening in London costs £2/2/- upward .
PEERLESS ORCHESTRA OF TEN.
Bewitching Cabaret, afternoons and evenings.
Delightful Afternoon Teas, 3.
Two hours’ entertainment of
Order Wines before 6 p.m.
30 to 6.30, 5/
Sheer Delight
Ring M.e6B&
A WOMAN'S
LETTER
SAY-
Kayser
SILK OR
CHAMOISETTE
GLOVES
A peerless day and the afternoon party
on the Renown coincided, so Sydney shook
out its filmiest dress and boarded the boat
Towards the carven ship on a carven wave
staid ferries carried their cargoes of georgette
and fur, silk hose and mixed cosmetics. Not
dashing, this arrival by ferry, but safer for
finery than per prancing brass-bound pinnace.
At three thirty the war lords and their
ladies, the politicians, the Consular sets and
official what-nots embarked at the Canteen
Wharf; but the noblesse oblige of Darling
Point obliged with no blessed sign of them-
selves till somewhere about half-past four.
By that time the band had driven all those
with jazz in their feet half-mad by providing
music of which nobody made the slightest use.
The etiquette was that you bowed your
good-day and then sat on the leather-bound
settees or the rosewood chairs around the
quarter-deck, and chatted with animation
about nothing; or you made investigations
into the anatomy of the boat under the
charge of glittersomely uniformed young men
on whom one faint joke seemed to put such
a strain that you feared a second might
result in the complete snapping of the crimson
bonds. Many deluded people spent the entire
afternoon trying to glimpse the Royal apart-
ments. These were on view to the few only ;
but between the opening and shutting of
doors a mere pariah visioned a moonlight-
blue and Australian-gold setting. What sort
of dreams come in a gold bed under a
coverlet spun of blue moonlight?
The deck sacred to the Royalties is two
floors up. A scrap of a place calculated to
demand 200 turnings before the daily mile is
accomplished. There arc no aeroplanes in
this Renown, but there are bagpipes and a
few guns that should prove handy in an
argument; and for tidiness it could take a
first prize anywhere. When you got away
from the palms which are the inevitable deco-
ration of a party in a warship (though
these, it must be said, struck a new note by
appearing to spring from what, if it were the
U'.S.A. fleet, would have been red and yellow
enwrapped cuspidors), there was a sheer
joy of apparently miles of scrubbed white
deck set about at irregular intervals with
spare ropes coiled with precision into round
and oblong mat-like designs. Once even a
great Rose of York Avas outlined by an
artistically-coiled rope. In that expanse of
flickering whiteness, that super-spick-and-
spanness, the strength of the Navy spoke.
No “doing things rather more or less” about
your battleship.
The Governor, showing that lie Avas an
Admiral, too, wore full naval kit; and Lady
do Chair’s paisley-patterned georgettes ran
to a mauve motif —the skirt was much and
finely pleated, and a hat of mauve tints
finished the good effect. Elaine wore her
favorite almond-green; and Mrs. Lowtlier,
Avhose Commander was in attendance, flew
beige crepe de Chines. Ex-Premier George
Fuller came with his tall lady, the shine
taken out of his tailorings by her mulberry
kasha ensemble and the heated argument with
Vice-Chancellor McCallum. The Captain
Robins couple and the Commander Leo
Quicks sustained the reputation of the Aus-
iralian Navy—-Mrs. Quick trom the hat doAvn
in georgette that suggested golden sands.
Mayor Mostyn brought Mrs. Mostyn in misty
blue georgettes; and Town Clerk Layton,
beside them, looked a rampart between them
and the wrath of the electrical Avorkers of the
world. Mrs. Sep Levy, who came late in
the day, aired white fox furs above a beige
knitted ensemble; and Will Holman sup-
ported Mrs. Holman’s black-bound ivory
crepe de Chines. But it was the gold-leaf
raiment of Mrs. Harry Rosenthal, of Mel
bourne, that really raised a glow in the
eye of the female of the species. It con-
sisted of a skirl of finely-pleated cloth-of-
gold topped by a jumper of Avoven blue and
gold.
The Wentworth has been specialising in
sea lords; and for the Show-Week Ball
it. displayed an impeccable line of gold braid
guaranteed made in England. Show-Week
Ball was originally dated to happen this
current week, but as the week known to
one part of Sydney as Show Week is known
to another part as Holy Week, the com-
mittee decided to push the frivol ahead seven
days. By this means, too, elegant gold
epaulets from the Renown could help the
decorations. Lady de Chair, who is very
interested in Bush Nursing and the estab-
lishment of maternity wards in country
hospitals, which were the very good reasons
ror the ball, came and brought quite a large
party. The silver grey of her georgette
draperies was evidently inspired by the visit-
ing warship; the shoulder drapes were
moored by flashing silver ornaments, and
the whole was brilliantly lit by a diamond
bandeau. Elaine blushed sweet and whole-
some in blue and silver. Seagreen and silver
that a mermaid might have envied flowed
about George Fuller’s tall lady; and Mrs.
Herring, who kept company with her
General—she was president—was in the blue
of the convolvulus. Kathleen Robinson (in
Chinese red), I)ame Alice Chisholm, Mary
Langtree, John Longstaff, Vinia dc Loitte
and six fresh-faced debs, two of them
.McKinnon girleens from Junee, were among
die hundreds who stepped and slid and flew
balloons for the welfare of the unborn citizen
of the Outback.
Garlands of yellow roses in the officers’
mess and masses of pink and white blooms
entangled in tulle in the billiard-room, what
time it was turned into a receptacle for the
fatted oyster puff, made the trimmings of a
dance in old V ictoria Barracks on Friday
night. Mess-President Colonel Cox-Taylor
and his lady welcomed the visitors,
some red and blue uniforms from the
Renown adding to the glitter of gold
braid of our own growing. In the crush
the eye was held by a Paris gown of peach
with silver lace embroidered with roses —Mrs.
Cosmo Fowler was the wearer—a flash of
gold and black worn by Mrs. Alderman, Rita
Buckland in silver and blue and Mrs. Capes
—a recent bride —with a beauteous silk
shawl round her shoulders.
First to the Duchess and then to the Duke
was a bail at the Rose Bay Golf Club
dedicated. So shall the King be glorified
and the Empire exalted ! Last week’s flut-
ter* which was called the Duke’s on account
of the decorations, was for the delectation
of the men of the Renown. Beautiful frocks
again took the full glare of the electrics
without a tremor. In fact, the brighter the
light the greater their triumph. Nobody
inks the seams of her old black satin to go
to a Duke’s dance, even if the Duke is miles
away. One of the most regarded among the
throng was Mrs. Stanham (Helen Macarthur
Onslow she used to be). She was in Royal
blue sprayed with silver. Sister Elizabeth
wore palest pink georgettes that bloomed
with rosebuds; and pretty Betty Wilson’s
white moire had old-fashioned baskets of
roses embroidered on its hem. Thick crystal
and jet fringe that fell from its waist to
the edge of the skirt made Mrs. Victor
V bite's flesh-pink chiffon eye-filling, and
Captain Geoff. Hughes’s lady rustled con-
spicuously in almond-green softness.
Evidently the Renown brought a hatch
full of photographs of the Duke and Duchess,
sleeve-links, cigarette cases and match-
boxes, all blazing with the insignia of Roy-
alty and engraved “E. and A.” Everybody
at Government House who smoothed an
errant rose-leaf in the Ducal way has been
presented with some token. The State Exes,
have photographs specially autographed; so
has Harry Budge. Gold sleeve-links flying
the sign of the Crown and Anchor are so
prevalent in official circles that a campaign
for shorter coat sleeves is imminent. Brig.-
General Lloyd, who was the handsome cloak-
stand patronised by the Duchess’s satin cloak
nightly, is happy with a gold cigarette case,
crested and engraved. A silver flower-bowl
that graced the Royalties’ table has been
presented to the Brig.-Gen. by Lady de
Chair. Perhaps he’s going to wear it as a
helmet during the Canberra campaign.
One day, when the Duke was making a
tour of the clubs, the Duchess was able to
slip out, practically unobserved, accompanied
by Sir Dudley, followed by Elaine and her
male escort and Lady de Chair and her male
escort—and at a discreet distance by a large
detective. They came into the Botanic
Gardens (some lower panels had been hastily
removed) and walked slowly round by the
Farm Cove. sea-path towards Mrs. Mac-
quarie’s Chair; then back via the gum-trees
to the aviary, and through the rose-garden
to Government House grounds again. Inci-
dentally, the tree planted by the Duke of
York in May, 1901, has broken into red
bloom, as a tribute, maybe, to his son.
Another Duke story. A pretty little Lane
Cove bride and her husband decided to be
amongst the first to book for the Royal gala
performance. Neither of them had even
glimpsed T.R.H., and they determined to gee
seats at. the side of the d.c., so that they could
really stare in a well-bred way at the Ducal
box. They talked about the gala night for
weeks. The day before the booking opened,
a mend rang up and purred into the bride’s
ear : “Wo want you and your husband to join
our theatre party for the 29th. Can you
come?” The bride cooed with pleasure. “Oh,
how kind of you! Pete and I would just love
it!” “Isn't it generous of them !” she said
to her husband. Husband thought it was
so generous that he couldn’t be outdone, so
he'd stand a dinner for the whole party of
six at the Australia. Came the great night.
The bride was gold from head to foot. .She
wore a Paquin wrap, and high voltage ear-
drops. The dinner passed without a hitch.
At 7.30 the host and hostess were
desperate. They knew that the audience for
the gala performance was to be seated at that
hour. A good 10 minutes later, when the
bride was nearly hysterical with impatience,
the lady who was shepherding the theatre
party rose. With calm dignity she swept
across the vestibule to the entrance where two
cars curvetted. Seating her guests in leisurely
fashion she murmured “Palace Theatre,
please!” She was taking her party to the
Repertory show!
The Melba lunch at Farmer’s spread by
the Musical Association turned out to be
a gathering of women. The Dame, of course,
brought her new baritone, Stuart Robinson,
and ever-faithful John Lemmone. In addi-
tion, she had Frank Hutchens’s smile and
the length without breadth of pianist Lind-
ley Evans to support her. The lunch started
well with oysters and finished up rather
lamely with caramel custard and speeches.
The speeches seemed to be of a confidential
nature, and references to a quarter of a
century ago were frequent. The Dame simu-
lated great annoyance at this rustling of the
leaves of Timq’s day-book. Her own speech
was clear cut, forceful and direct, and with
good showmanship she paid a pretty com-
pliment to each of her supporting artists.
John Lemmone and she, who made their first
grown-up appearance together, declare their
intention to make their positively last and
final farewell bow together in the .concert
tour of Australia which commenced on Satur-
day in Sydney. Stuart Robinson, by the
way, comes from a village named Essendon
in England.
The Red Cross floated proudly at Rose
Hall when the members of that great society
met for their yearly conference. The Gov-
ernor’s lady made the introductory speech
to a room crowded with V.A.’s and office-
bearers, whose enthusiasm has never flagged
since 1914. Knight James Fairfax and
Russell Sinclair were among the speakers,
and in the latter’s talk there was what one
might call a militant note of regret over
the refusal of the Government to allow the
society to hold its yearly fair in Martin-
place. But it was during the second and
third days of the council that the all-tlie-
year-round work of the Red Grosser was
revealed. The constant care of the sick
ex-soldier and of the soldiers’ families that
have fallen on evil days; the hopelessness of
the society’s attempts to catch up with the evil
fruits of war—these struck the keen listener
even while they fanned to stronger flame
an appreciation of the society's works of
mercy.
Grandchildren are the moment’s fashion-
able appendage to the society matron. All
because Queen Mary said: “Leave the baby
to me.”
On the afternoon of May 3 you can “blew”
the change from the odd pound that Mr.
Wliiddon has left you by attending the
cabaret in aid of the Hospice for the Dying.
Mrs. William Macleod, as usual, is presi-
dent of the committee, and the afternoon
threatens to. outdo in numbers and attrac-
tions anything of its kind yet held in the
Ambassadors.
M a r g a ret
0h a lmers, a
laughter o f
that good busi-
ness man who
did so much
for the Civil
Service Stores
and Farmer’s,
looks out from
this Elizabeth
Mahon y pic-
ture. Margaret
is helping to
build up a
Sydney insti-
tution herself
by her vigor-
ous support of
t h e. British
Music Society.
The clever
pianist is the
society’s ac-
companist, and
with singer Nancy Marsden the other week
she raised over £5O towards the library
funds. The society, though it preaches the
gospel of British music, holds out. a helping
hand to the Australian composer.
Alice Norton, who married Beresford Play-
fair on Saturday at St Mark’s, had every-
thing that goes to make up a really first-class
wedding—even to two immaculate pages
carrying shimmering satin cushions. In
addition there were tw T o small train-bearers
in white taffeta and Dutch lace bonnets; and
three maids in soft white and pink topped by
cream lace hats. The bride is the youngesl
daughter of the W. H. Nortons, of Eccles-
bourne, Ocean-avenue, and her groom the
baby of the Edmund Playfairs of Waverley.
Dr. Reggie Bridge, eldest son of the
Clarence Bridges, is in Melbourne on his.
honeymoon. Sharing it with him is one of
Sydney’s nicest girls; until Saturday night
her name was Una Kleemo. She "wore a
white velvet frock worthy of note for the
transfer, which was duly certified by Canon
Lea at St. Mark’s. The frock was made
firm and small as to bodice, and spreading
as to skirt, which was finished by a trans-
parent hein to the ankles. A pink tulb-
veil instead of the usual white meshed the
bride’s dark hair.
The lady in
this Ma y
Moore picture
is Sister
Weekes, of the
Chatswood
Baby - Health
Centre, who
has just gone
to Broken Hill
to take charge
of the Baby-
Welfare there.
With an in-
fantile mortal-
ity rate for the
past 10 -years
o f 99.8 per
1000 births as
against 03.1
for the whole
Sta t e, it is
evident that
Broken Hill
needs all the
help the Maternal and Baby-Welfare
workers can give. Sister Weekes has a fine
record at ,Chatswood, and the Hill gains
a very useful citizen.
A sort of Maid of the Mist effect was
captured in the wedding garment worn by
Doreen Bennett, of Darling Point, when she
met Philip. Yates at weather-beaten St.
Mark’s. Bride’s father armed her up a
flowered aisle, and mother looked on from
the silver setting provided by her handsome
tissue frock and toque. Four maids in
ethereal pinks and blues were in the tableau
when Canon Lea and Padre Rix declared
the circle complete.
Mrs. Ron Macleod, wife of The Bulle-
tin’s Melbourne manager, has been in Syd-
ney mourning the death of her father, Mr.
T. G. Wilson. In the long ago he was a
well-known civil engineer—originally he was
in the N.S.W. public service—but had been in
ill health for several years.
The Mothers’ Rest bungalow which the
Royal Welfare Society is erecting at the
Showground will be about 40ft. long by
25ft. wide, with a 10ft. verandah in
front. It is almost immediately oppo-
site the main entrance gates. There's
a nursing-room and kitchenette attached
to the main rest-room, and there
will be space for appropriate exhibits. Here,
too, mothers may leave their babies in the
care of trained nurses for a small charge
while they view the show in comfort.
R.C. Sydney will be interested in the pic-
tures of the Eucharistic Congress held last
year in Chicago which are to be shown on
Saturday. This is the official record of the
Congress taken by Fox Films for Cardinal
Mundelein, and will be interesting as a fore-
cast of the ceremonials which will take place
in Sydney in 1928.
Browned by a tropic sun, with a fine up-
standing personality, Chief Justice Young
of Fiji was a guest of honor at the Royal
Colonial Institute’s evening sliivoo to greet
officers of the Renown. Amongst them Com-
mander Hodges and a youthful crop of slim
young midsliipmites shook the hands extended
by Knight Alfred Meeks and his wife, both,
by the way, early voyagers to Europe with
daughter Hilda (Mrs. Caterj. In the crush
were the Clifford Minters, the D. J. Brown
hills, the George Earps, Secretary Bruce
Mackenzie, banker Shannon and his ornate
Elizabethan beard, the Kelso Kings. Colonel
Fewtrell and his wife, Winifred Guy (the
English school inarm of poster fame), those
line Victoria Leaguers the Misses Hall. Albert
Gould and all the rest of society which was
not hostessing- Renowners elsewhere.
The Easter gaieties at the Hydro are 1“
be well stage-managed; the. frivol is being
arranged by Wynne Whear Roberts, one ot
Sydney’s best-known amateur actresses and
the newly-elected secretary of the Players’
Club. The compact little theatre in the
Casino is being renovated, and here members
of that Club will offer a bunch of one-act
plays.
On the principle that everybody help'
those who help themselves, 8000 business
girls are busy trying to collect a pound each
towards a sports ground. The City Girl-
Amateur Sports Association has decided that
such a playground is necessary to the well-
being of the girl worker in office, shop and
factory. It will cost about £15,000. and th
card system is trusted to bring in £4oott
Girls’ Week, later in the year, is expected
to fill the coffers to overflowing: an exhibi-
tion of girls’ work and an issue of bonds
named after the week itself will be the right
and left bowers in this money-raising hand.


/ BRgTHERgJZB
Gifts for Men
Ř
BA 8306.
“Alfred Dunhill,” finest English Briar Pipe,
suede leather sheath.
Price £l/13/-
BA 8293 (at right).
Morocco Pocket Wallet, two silver corners. Fitted
bank-note pocket, two letter pockets, card and
stamp compartments. Length: six inches.
Price £l/4/-
a
v ,'iS ,
-S:
\ '?.\
tilt v , .
v- -
{.
, ' :
VI ' \ " % < \‘ ■ > • .
>v<^
■•;■■■ .■ ■ ■ ,
’ . . .j V iylW <
Five per cent, discount
allowed for cash.
Hardp’s new illustrated
Catalogue will be sent
on request.
R
BA 8321.
Blue Fine Seal Tonne; o
Pouch, lined oiled silk, with
two silver corners). Size,
folded as in lower illustra-
tion, 51 x 2f inches.
23/-
Unmounted, 18/-
298-300
COLLINS ST„
MELBOURNE.
HARDY
BROTHERS LTD
< 3ft& c ffouse ofi Orcluswc VewtUery
13 HUNTER STREET, SYDNEY.
And :it LONDON.
JJ6-118
QUEEN ST.,
BRISBANE.
PLUMBERS
and STEAM FITTERS
A PRACTICAL TRADE ASSISTANT.
tm
&SS& ovwi
e T' '*Z Wf -
' mtsm
Piumbes
-Steam, 1,, J»TE«j
F«TTEfti|.r;-‘F|TT|f
Guide 1 . SUioe
1 , 2
<&. ' (£
PIPE 1 ■ '■
HEATiM&I \ •
VIKmATI.o| '• • '
GAf **M*S, ’
t ; o i
whemawl
Physics !
MATfgiAtSf
tools |
' cuw v ; :;f
WORK - i
WATER:
SUPPLY
Qg&iNftM
ROUGH
WORK':,
■TESTS :
■
PRICE,
COMPLETE SET
OF 4 VOLS.,
0(\l POST
OUj m FREE
ASK
THE
GUIDE
The right answer
to every problem
is at your finger-
tips.
EVERYTHING AN ELECTRICIAN WANTS TO KNOW.
HAWKINS’ ELECTRICAL GUIDE,
Complete Set of 10 Volumes,
Price 50/-. Postage 2/6 extra.
Write for Lists. The Best House for Technical Books.
N.S.W. BOOKSTALL CO. LTD.
CASTLEREAGH AND MARKET STREETS, SYDNEY.
Your Health!
wmm
m
m
'
warn
Guinness’s Stout
ll
U
m
1759-1927
The World Over
OBTAINABLE
EVERYWHERE


A. SAUNDERS’
PRESENTATION TEA AND COFFEE
SERVICE AND SALVER.
SJEM
Ŕ
SM»
R
A. Saunders’ Tea ar.d Coffee Service, Pure Silver-plated, At Quality, Oilt-lined Sugar and
Cream, Complete with Lids, £lO/10/-. Similar designs, £B/10/-, £l2/10/-, £ls.*
v U )
*
m
A. Saunders’ Presentation Salver, Solid Polished Oak, Silver-plated
Rail and Shield, £5. Others, 63/-, 70/-, 80/-, 90/-
We Pay Postage - - - - Write for Catalogue.
A. SAUNDERS
Watchmaker—Jeweller—Optician,
805-813 GEORGE STREET (opposite Railway Station), SYDNEY,
WINTER TOURS
ARRANGED BY
THOS. COOK & SON
Railway, Steamship and Tourist Agents,
PASSAGES BOOKED BY ALL LINES.
Monthly Sailing List-—Post Free.
TRAVELLERS’ CHEQUES
Issued in Sterling and Dollars.
PASSENGERS’ BAGGAGE INSURED.
INCLUSIVE INDEPENDENT TRAVEL.
Providing
TRAVEL - -HOTELS SIGHTSEEING.
Any Route, Class of Hotel and Travel Optional).
ESCORTED INCLUSIVE TOURS
JAVA - - MALAYA'- - SIAM - - JAPAN.
Departures in June, July and August.
INDEPENDENT INCLUSIVE TOURS
to
HONOLULU - - CALIFORNIA
BRITISH COLUMBIA
SOUTH AFRICA and CEYLON.
Special Departures, June, July, August, October.
CRUISES TO SOUTH SEA ISLANDS.
TOURS TO NORTH QUEENSLAND.
WINTER SPORTS
MT. BUFFALO (Vic.), Mt. COOK (N.Z.).
FULL DETAILS IN
WINTER TOURS PROGRAMME
POST FREE FROM—
THOS. COOK & SON
MELBOURNE:
269 Collins Street.
SYDNEY:
Martin Place
(Opp. G.P.0.).
ADELAIDE:
49a Grenfell Street.
AUCKLAND:
N.Z. Insurance Building,
Queen Street.
WELLINGTON;
Government Life Building
(Next G.P.0.).
r : •
| :■; '|
113^111
'
:
: :I,’-:
VmmM
»§
u
Specialists
in
Fine Pearls
Pearl
Necklaces
Earrings.
Drummonds are
at present display-
ing an, unusually large
selection of fine Pearl
Necklaces in wide range
of tint and lustre.
Strands of small gradu-
ated bright Oriental
Pearls, with white gold
snap, can be obtained
from £5. Larger strands
range from £2O to
£5OOO. A comparison
of quality and value is
invited before purchase.
A Selection of loose Round Pearls of
finest quality is always maintained for
adding to customers’ own Necklaces.
281 m. ®rummontr & Co
THE HOUSE FOR FINE PEARLS,
344-346 Collins Street, Melbourne.
in
The Watchword
for Elegance
and Efficiency
The Timepiece for all Time
It is curious to think that the one
thing in the world which is most
mechanical in its action, and
most practical in purpose, should
be also the most beautiful in design.
Wafer-like, durable, artistic,, and,
above all, accurate, the Elgin is
indeed a Timepiece for all time.
OBTAINABLE AT ALL LEADING JEWELLERS
ELGIN
U.S.A,
&
&
IIVN NISH
THIS TRADE MARK
IN THE WATCH CASE


\ou positively COULDN’T get a more centrally-situated hotel —a stone’s throw
f^^ywhere —railway stations, steamship wharves, offices, theatres, etc. And
Scott s” has always kept abreast of the times, supplying everything you would
expect of the best hotel of its kind in the State. All
bedrooms equipped with hot and cold water and direct
exchange and inter-communicating telephones.
Inclusive Tariff by Day, or Bed and
Breakfast Rate.
WRITE FOR TARIFF CARD.
Teleyramsj ‘‘Scott’s/' Melbourne. ’Phone, Cent. 9012
MELBOURNE S.-25.
Us 3W
m
'T-TT-.
VICHY
BUSES
VICHY WATER
“CELESTINS”
Owned and Guaranteed Genuine by
French Government.
Taken regularly, will ensure perfect action
of Liver and Kidneys, which means more
enjoyment out of life and greater efficiency
in business and sport.
Imitations being on the market,
Do Not Be Misled—lnsist on Celestins.
Obtainable Everywhere.
Sole Australian Agent:
M. PELLETIER, 16 Bridge Street, Sydney.
Melbourne
Chatter
Buckley's
Elizabethan
Tea Rooms
F[?] Contral 800for P[?]
Buckley e-Nunn, Lrimited.
So[?] so M[?]
On Friday morning' rain clouds moved
across the sun and the breeze blew freezingly.
Failure threatened the first day of the.
Diamond Jubilee Fair of the Royal Victorian
Institute for the Blind, and depression settled
on the workers, who began tacking tarpaulins
around their well-laid-out stocks. Then, as
if by magic, the sun came out and all was
bright and busy as the merry-go-round that
set up musical rivalry with the orchestra
of the R.V.1.8. The two days’ sale was a
happy inspiration of Mrs. Jim Angus to
enable women to do their bit to finance the
hostel being erected for blind women
workers. The objective was £2o<Jt) to com-
plete the furnishing of the residence, several
friends having already undertaken to equip
certain rooms. The president, J. L. Carnegie,
and his wife, vice-pres. Jim Angus, who said
a few words about the Institute’s new under-
faking, and Mayor and Mayoress Morel!
accompanied Lady Somers on her tour of
inspection. Many suburban mayoresses were
stall-holders, and members of the Women’s
Automobile Club and the Austral Salon took
a hand. Matron Briggs ran the refreshments
and there was a stall of raffia work made
by the blind. Artists from the Rose Marie
co.. Tivoli and other theatres gave their aid,
and children tripped dances in costume on
the lawn. A snake-charmer and a bridge
party were other items of note.
The University Ball at St. Kilda Town
I lull on Friday night brought out a big
crowd. Winifred Kent Hughes, in powder-
blue with floral tracery, secretaried the jazz.
Professor Osborne and his wife; Professor
Shouts, whose life-partner’s black gown was
enlivened with gold lace; the J. P. Bain-
bridge couple; Mrs. W. ID. Agar, in sapphire-
blue and crystal embellishment; and Pro-
fessor Gunn, with Mrs. Gunn, whose emerald-
green georgette flounces were punctuated
with ostrich feather-bordering of the same
hue, were among the dancers. Eileen Mur-
phy, a visitor from Bananaland’s capital,
was in glistening silver.
A wonderfully sunny day brought out
crowds to see the show put on by the bright
young sparks from the University on Satur-
day, and there were some trying moments
for traffic cops. The Chinese turmoil inspired
a dragon shepherded by bodyguards letting
off crackers, and an armored car inhabited
by what looked like a laundryman. The
dental students harked back to Imperial
Rome for costumes and held a sale of slaves
on the Treasury steps. The Royal Yorks
bathing beauties, pirates, convicts and a
host of unrecognisable characters were repre-
sented, but the affair was not very wildly
exciting.
The star turn of the afternoon was the
duplication by Melb. Uni. of the LL.T). that
Priminister Bruce had already been given
at Cambridge. The crimson gown with black
and white hood looked very chic. It cov-
ered a grey suit, and there were no spats
to distract the attention. Prof. Ileinze pre-
sented a quartette of maidens as Bachelors
of Music. The procession through the Hall
was colorful and dignified—it seemed to re-
quire a musical accompaniment, but that
finishing touch was lacking.
Last week Melbourne said “Autumn!”
with flowers at Wirths’ pavilion, where a
Garden Week was held. The National Rose
Society joined with the Nurserymen and
Seedsmen to make the show memorable.
Roses held the stage on the opening day,
and the blooms were massed on tables placed
on the tiered seats of the former circus-ring,
forming great steps of color and perfume.
A forest of blue-gums backgrounded groups
of dahlias whose flame and sunset hues
formed an effective frame for a central mass
of delphiniums. The very latest dahlia, the
I Hike of York, was shown—a large single
bloom whose petals melted from a purplish
maroon at the centre to pale pink at the
tips. Another loyal tribute was a Queen
-Mary gladiolus. Mayor Morell made a
well-reasoned speech to open the show, and
u bouquet of pink dahlias was handed over
to the Mayoress, who was attired in golden
brown. Public interest in flower-culture
was demonstrated by the many who wandered
found with book and pencil, making notes
of new blooms and carefully selecting pur-
chases.
The committee of the Gentlewomen’s Aid
Society, whose job is to find a market for
articles made by its protegees, held its lialf-
Yearly sale at St. Kilda Town Hall last
week. The needlework, woollen garments,
fancy goods, home-made jams, preserves and
cakes made a brave show. A special com-
petitive section in needlecraft elicited some
beautifully-worked undies and household
linen. St. Ivilda’s Mayoress, Mrs. Burnett
Gray, who was escorted by the Mayor, opened
the sale, and Miss Ethel Flower, who took
over the duties of secretary in 1908 and still
carries on, looked after the business end.
The Warren iClarke and Warford Mein
matrons prevailed upon many of their friends
to have a game of bridge in the good cause.
The interesting address on Papua and the
Papuans, delivered by Hubert Murray to
members of the Victoria League at the Wind-
sor Hotel, was intended mostly as an acknow-
ledgment of the work of the Bush Library
section of the league, which had despatched
papers and books to his Ex.’s principality.
Lady Stonehaven, whose silver coat showed
glimpses of a black georgette frock, was
accompanied by the Masson lady in black,
with a dash of clierry-hued velvet, and Mrs.
S. Fraser, who was hostess. She dressed the
part, in lemon tone with clusterings of gold
beads and glistening trimming, beneath a
black and gold brocade coat.
The Arts and Grafts Society held its
twenty-first annual meeting on Friday night,
its founder, Lady Creswell, being the
chairwoman. Merrie Boyd gave sage counsel
on the subject of advertising. Jessie Traill's
collection of posters was one of the interests
of the evening, and the privilege of a pre-
liminary peep at several of the addresses of
welcome to Royalty printed by J. S. Forman
was allowed the company. The Arts and
Grafts address will be accompanied with gifts
for baby Elizabeth —a white embroidered
sheer linen frock, and an Aussie Ark. in
which abos. take the place of the Noah
family and the animals are mostly marsupial.
Nevin Tail: proposes to present the late
Derwent Wood’s portrait of his wife, Bess
Norris, the miniaturist, to the National Gal-
lery. Mrs. Tait is a Melbourne girl who
went to London in search of recognition and,
happily, found it. The three bronzes by
Derwent Wood purchased under the Felton
bequest will have a warmer welcome than
other fioated-over works of art have received,
if only because Wood met many an Aussie
when he was working as an orderly at
Wandsworth Hospital.
Toorak College, an old establishment
devoted to the educational polish of the
naicest maidens, has been saved from extinc-
tion ; though for months it was in peril.
Confident that they could obtain another
suitable property the Misses Hamilton
accepted a good bid for their old site. After
months of weary search they were obliged
to notify the closing of the college. A few
of the parents got together, formed a com-
mittee, and a new school will presently over-
look the sea near Frankston —to the delight
of most of the boarders.
This is Mrs. Mansley Greer, a talented
musician who wants young Australians to
acquire a taste for good music, particularly
that of the
British school,
and who is
arranging reci-
tals at some of
t h e schools
with that end
in view. The
favored schools
will be affili-
ated with the
British Musi-
cal Society
and e n-
couraged t o
e s t a b 1 i s h
musical libra-
ries. Already
two or three
colleges have
-topped into
line, and are
looking b e-
yond jazz and
ragtime for
tlicir musical recreation. The lady, whose
picture is by Dickinson Monteatli, is wife of
the organist of Scots’ Church, Gollins-street,
who is also conductor of the Liedertafel.
The Melbourne University Dramatic Co.
led off the revels of Commencement Week
with two nights’ presentation of A. A.
Milne’s comedy “The Dover Road.” Under
Norman Simpson’s shepherding the young-
people put up a creditable performance, full
houses giving them encouragement. Mary
Bourke and Esther Feely played leading
parts nicely.
The Tom O’Loughlins have surprised Bal-
larat by announcing their return to the War-
renheip home, built when they came as
newly-weds from Kilkenny, and later de-
serted in favor of a suburban mansion at
Kew. Tom is our only Count of the Roman
Empire, a dignity specially conferred by a
grateful Pope for his munificent gifts to
Mother Church. His money came from a
bachelor uncle, one of the lucky syndicate
that owned the Berry deep-lead mine, and the
Seven Hills land surrounding it, which they
cut up and sold, thus grasping fortune with
both hands.
In the Golden City a renovated cathedral
embellished with a new wing and many what-
nots is nearly due for an opening ceremony.
Gaitered legs are preparing to paddle off in
that direction from many States. Maori-
land will send its Bishop Sadlier, a one-
time Bendigo curate. Archbishop Lees has
the star part.
“The Fake,” at the King's Theatre, serves
to introduce Mary McGregor as the sweetest
of brides, in white tulle splashed with dia-
mente; and the most alluring of widows in
black georgette, topped by a most fetching
toque. Ellen Pollock’s caped wedding-guest
raiment is of biscuit tone with a stray bunch
of blossoms in colored crystal beads. Large
crinoline millinery harmonises. The lass
also introduces a sporty get up of white
satin allied to black, topped by a white felt
hat dashed with red. An attractive white
gown with deep bordering of black is worn
by Margaret Murray in a similar capacity.
The stage looked like a gladioli show when
Moscovitch took his call after the last curtain.
The Harry Emmertons, John Fiskens, Italian-
Consul Grossardi and his wife, Barry Thom-
sons, Mrs. T. A. Tabart, and some Grim-
wades were there.
This exotic-looking soul is Colin Colalmn,
first of painter Meldrunrs pupils to get him-
self hung at the Royal Academy show and in
the most famous of the Paris salons. Just
back in Mel-
bourne from
a six years
sojourn
abro a d, bis
best show, at
the Fine Arts
Gallery, has
pro vok e cl a
heated news-
paper contro-
ver s y . Tli o
young man.
whose hit •
father was a
s u r g e o u-
gene n a 1 in
the Imperial
Army, w a s
cl e s tilled to
follow in his
father’s foot
steps, but
after three
years at the
local shop he put aside the lancet for the
brush, did a short-course of art at the
National Gallery as a prelude to joining the
Meldrum school, and then had a year in
London. For the last five he has been in
Paris;. with occasional excursions to the
galleries of Spain and Italy. A picture of
his wife exhibited in the Royal Academy
made quite a flutter and was reproduced
in some of the London weeklies.
The Alex. Stevensons came down from
Deniliquin to marry-off yet another daughter.
This time it is Alvie. Her bridegroom,
Captain J. A. Drake, was a passenger by
the Comorin, but rushed over from Adelaide
to get a few words with his bride before the
event. Daughter Sheila and her Outliwaite
husband, who were but lately in the bridal
limelight, came from their N. S. Wales
homestead for the occasion.
Major ,T. I'itts Campbell has found the
girl he was looking for, in a neighboring
State. She is Doris May, younger daughter
of the S. G. Reids of North Sydney.
One leading daily remarked last week that
Albert Windsor’s better half, at her first
Brisbane appearance, “was looking delight-
fully animated and fresh in pale pink fichu
with a white parasol. She was unaffected
by the tropical heat.” No wonder! The
fichu, for the benefit of a generation that
knows it not by that name, is a very abbrevi-
ated neck adornment.
Knitters are reminded that leaves are fall-
ing and the wind blows keen, and that
invalided soldiers stand in need of sweaters..
Specifications may be had from the Red
Cross, 44 Latrobe-street; also at the wool
counters of any of the city shops.
St. Kilda’s junior branch of the Alfred
Hospital Auxiliary intends to make people
play bridge in aid of the institution at the
Town Hall on May 25. Mrs. Arnold Isaac-
son is president, and Mrs. T. Marshall Wood
secretary of the effort.
For the first time for 40 years or more
the people of Melbourne are having a good
look at Scots’ Kirk, in Collins-street. To
make way for the big structure to be raised
by the T. and G., the Burke and Wills
building at the corner of Collins and Russell
streets has been pulled down. With the
foreground that the 99ft. street and the big-
vacant corner block provides, the Scotch
temple with the Assembly Hall flanking it
on the west side stands out in all its magnifi-
cence. The spire seems to leap skyward and
to show off the cathedral-like proportions
of the building. So well does it look that
the guid folk who go there must be tempted
whiles to buy out the T. and G. and pre-
serve to the kirk its ancient lights. At least
50 of the congregation could, without serious
inconvenience, buy the whole block; but
mon, mon, ’twould be muckle siller for a
wee bit sentiment.
THE LITTLE SISTERS.
QUEENSLAND.
Brisbane.
The Royal party arrived under a blue
sky to find tlie streets lined with cheering
thousands. Roofs, awnings, fences (even
the spikey ones outside the Wickhani-
terrace churches), were hung with spectators.
The rose-petal hat of the Duchess bobbed
incessantly above a sea of human heads.
In Albert-square a dais had been erected
close to the partially built Town Hall, and
here the City Fathers gathered, and the
address of welcome was read by Colonel F.
G. Annand, Mayoress Jolly gave the beaming
Duchess a bouquet of orchids, lilies-of-
the-valley and roses tied with scarlet and
gold. The Duke replied in cheerful words,
and Percy Brier and Sydney May conducted
the Tivoli choir iu selections likely to be
popular with a member of the Strathmore
family.
Feminine eyes were mostly glued to the
Duchess, who was looking rosy and bright.
She wore an ivory and pink tinted lace frock
with her pink hat and customary pearls, and
carried a white sunshade. Jade and black
dressed the Countess of Cavan, and Mrs.
Little-Gilmour was all in cinnamon. Mrs.
Lennon, the Lieut.-Gov.'s wife, wore nigger
eharmante, with a brown hat. General
Glasgow’s lady was in biscuit color, and the
Mayoress in fawn. Mrs. Forgan Smith,
wife of the Deputy-Premier, wore black satin
h'eaute with a nattier-blue hat.
[n the evening a Diggers’ welcome packeft
lie Wintergarden, where scenes of wildest
■nthusiasm resulted in the Prince having
;o be smuggled in by the back door through
Flizabeth-street. Girls climbed the tall rail-
ing in front of the theatre entrance and
Iropped over to be on the spot. Tram and
motor traffic had to be stopped, and the
biggest crowd ever seen in the city packed
the portion of Queen-street fronting the
theatre. The Earl of Cavan was with the
Duke when H.R.H. finally crawled through
lie back yard and was greeted by a burst
>f cheers, and “Mademoiselle from Armen-
libres” was the favored tune of the evening,
vhieh was for returned men and service
nurses only, with a sprinkling of local
celebrities. Hayden Beck conducted an
orchestra of 40, and the Curlew choir sang.
The Duchess stayed at home for a rest.
In the city the illumination schemes were
many and varied, and the prevailing orange
and red lights cast a rich glow over what
Governor Nathan used to call “our grey
city.” One tall building had a novel design
in battle-axes to flank its Union Jacks and
its one great diamond light. The Adelaide,
lying at the south-side wharves, was outlined
in golden bulbs ; and the Custom House build-
ing, with its bubble dome and picturesque
outlines, looked specially fair by the water,
trimmed with orange-red lights. The news-
paper offices ran up electric-light bills
with recklessness, and the sky was bitten
into by Venetian poles and Union Jacks.
The bridge was like a hooped serpent, with
amber-tinted bulbs. All the trams flew Union
Jacks and flags of Australia, as did most
of the motors, and some of the most serious-
looking persons in the world waved tiny
flags. Queen-street was enthusiastically “on
its ear.”
Next day there was a public reception at
the University and another at Parliament
House, and more addresses of welcome. Her
favorite pink was conspicuous in the
Duchess’s frocking, and she wore delectable
shoes broiderod in poppies. There were
some beautiful specimens of Queensland
woods in the caskets presented. One, of
Queensland maple, bore a carved presentment
of the Royal baby. The Duke and Duchess
walked from Parliament House to the Uni.
grounds, while holiday Brisbane kodaked
them continuously. The undergrads made a
guard in caps and gowns, on the left hand
of the dais, calling out to the Duchess
“Please come out this way.” She smiled
and had the waiting car brought round to
that side. There were babies in arms, work-
aday mothers, very old ladies, excited young-
women, and one small girl carrying a pet
native-bear. Flowers were thrown on the
platform where the Duke and Duchess stood
to be inspected by the crowd.
In the afternoon Ascot races were attended.
Palms and bunting decorated the Royal box
and zinnias and dahlias decked the balcony
for tea. The Duchess was in ivory georgette
and wide-brimmed cream crin. hat, trimmed
with autumn blossoms. She wore three
three ropes of pearls and a pink satin coat,
banded in fox. Mrs. Little-Gilmour was in
scarlet and white patterned georgette, and
black hat.
The Naval and Military Ball was a brilliant
affair, despite the absence of Royalty. Crim-
son and gold, captured guns, a model of tin 1
Renown, masses of white roses, and the port
and starboard lights of the Emden were
part of the decorations. Trails of Californian
poppies and palm fronds and cyclamen-
colored tulle, arranged a Id Union Jack, were
(Continued on page -$9.)


TRADE MARK
\AS fine as fine china can be
m
. i
j«i ii» I y v-:.T»XtVJOCiXMeiL^TOCS33^agi^S
PURE WHITE CHINA.
White China —real white —is once again much
in vogue, and a breakfast or tea set of the famous
Shelley “Dainty” white china is a present which
is sure to please, and which could live at neacc with
any surrounding. It is not expensive and includes
attractive odd things like cr:ss dishes, covered
muffins, fruit sets, honey jars and cake stands.
Obtainable from all high-class stores and Pottery
dealers. If any difficulty, write for name of nearest
stockist to our Wholesale Representatives,
T.W HEATH & CO.
/limited
232, Qlarence St. Sydney & Commerce dlouse, (Melbourne,
CHINA
Ŗ
Ř
R
wait for
egestraiit
but look to your lighting. The steady,
clear, comfortable radiance of “Con-
dor” Lamps is light in its ideal form.
Soft yet brilliant—the ultimate point
in domestic illumination.
ismfcil
o
(TAMPS
for every socket in your
house—every fitting in
your car.
“Condor” Radio Valves
have the same outstand-
ing virtues as “Con-
dor” Lamps your
radio set will be im-
proved by fitting them.
CONDOR LAMPS
(AUSTRALASIA) LIMITED
Sydney, Melbourne,
Adelaide, Brisbane,
Wellington, N.Z.
•diO
Buy
4
Wear
WOLSEY
PURE WOOL UNDERWEAR
It is more durable
and gives better all-
round service than
any other make .
MADE IN ENGLAND BY
WOLSEY LTD., LEICESTER.
Makers of
SPORTSMAN RAMESES
Knitted Sportswear. Underw or and Hosiery ,
WOLSEY LTD.,
316, Flinders Lane, Melbourne.
Late to bed and early to rise
AND so the good proverb is remembered —by
>- breaking it. Some girls have to be at dances
late at night. Some have to be at offices early in
the morning. Others have to be at both. No
wonder powder puffs wear out.
ENO’s “Fruit Salt” is for inner health. Being
an aid to Health, it is also among the best aids to
Beauty. ENO begins at the beginning mildly,
gently and naturally, keeping the vital organs in tone
and tune, and the reward comes in good time in
the form of freshness, colour, complexion and bloom.
Prepared only by
). C. ENO, Limited,
London. England.
Saks Agents' Theßr:':s-
Harold F. Ritchie & Co .
Ltd., Sydney, N-S.V-
*
*
IN
TWO SIZES
i AT CHEMISTS
* AND STORES.
REGISTERED TRADE M A * U
THE WORDS "FRUIT SALT" AND ENO ARE


A Clip Well Grown
may be half sold. But work half done does not hit
the mark. You want full value for the clip. And
the work of a competent salesman is essential to
produce it. That is where the advantage arises in
accepting this advice —
SEED THE WOOL TO
WINCHCOMBE, CARSON
LTD.
Selling Brokers, Sydney, or Brisbane.
Success constantly attends the firm’s efforts in
obtaining top figures for owners at the sales.
ARCHITECTS, ARTISTS, DESIGNERS,
DRAUGHTSMEN & OFFICE USE.
• i ——i Ik
MADE
BRITISH
Perfection
ripsk. robber
Keep hopping and hoping if yon wish
(o succeed — think of
SCHUTE,
BELL&Cuo
If you have
Wool & Skins
to Sell.
Personal Attention.
Offices: 44 Bridge Street. Sydney.
/
’,i^
Macmillan’s
NEW BOOKS.
The. prices advertised are those at which the
books are published in London. Prices outside
the British Isles must be fixed by the importing
bookseller.
Early Life and Letters of John
Morley.
By F. W. HIRST. With portraits and
other illustrations. Two vols. 28s. net.
Daily Chronicle: “Mr. Hirst has done his
work extremely well: a vivid and very agree-
able picture of Lord Morley as a young man.”
A BURGLAR’S AUTOBIOGRAPHY.
You Can’t Win.
By JACK BLACK. 7s. 6d. net.
The Westminster Gazette: “A fascinating
book For nearly 400 pages we are con-
ducted through a maze of adventure, packed
with startling incident.”
Industrial Fluctuations.
By A. C. PIGOU, M.A., Professor of
Political Economy in the University
of Cambridge. With Charts. 255. net.
The Yorkshire Post: “The book, of ’ts
nature, demands close study, and some of Pro-
fessor Pigou’s conclusions may be disputable,
but no more valuable work on the application
of economic principles to industrialism has been
produced in our time.”
A Treatise on Viticulture.
By A. I. PEROLD, 8.A., Plt.D.. Pro-
fessor of Viticulture and Oenology in
the University of Stellenbosch. Illus-
trated. 255. net.
This treatise is the most complete and up-to-
date work on viticulture and grape products
existing in the English language.
To be Obtained from all
Booksellers.
MACMILLAN & CO. LTD.
MELBOURNE & LONDON, W.C.2
Amusements,
EMPIRE THEATRE,
Railway Square, adjoining Saunders’ Corner,
in Quay Street, Sydney,
liufe Naylor lias the honor to present
2/6 “SUNNY” 5/6
(By arrangement with Chas. Dillingham, N.V.)
PLAYING TO CAPACITY NIGHTLY.
“SUNNY” commences at 7.45 sharp. Orchestral
items from 7.30.
Reserves at Theatre (M.A. 1000), Nicholson's,
Paling’s, Hotel Australia, Usher’s, Carlton, Samuel’s.
Matinees Wednesday and Saturday at 2.
Theatre Box Office Hours: 9 to 3, 4 to 1).
I£Y D N E Y’S CHIEF THEATRES.
J. C. WILLIAMSON, LTD., present
HER MAJESTY’S: FRASQUITA.
CRITERION:
SWEET NELL OF OLD DRURY.
ROYAL:
THE COUSIN FROM NOWHERE.
PALACE: SIN-CYLINDER LOVE.
CULLERS’ THEATRE, SYDNEY.
Twice Daily, 2.30 and 8.
STIFFY AND MO.
OPERA HOUSE, SYDNEY.
Prop. : Geo. Marlow. Direction William Russell.
FRANK NEIL’S COMEDIANS in
in
CHARLEY’S AUNT.
RICKARDS’ TIVOLI THEATRES.
* * Lessees: llarry Rickards’ Tivoli Theatres, Ltd.
MELBOURNE and SYDNEY.
TWICE EVERY DAY—2.3O and 8.
CELERRITY VAUDEVILLE.
The World’s Best.
yy IR T H BROS. LIMI T E D.
Governing Directors: Messrs. Philip & George Wirtli.
THE GREATEST SHOW ON EARTH.
THIS YEAR’S ALL NEW PROGRAMME
Bewilders the Audience with its THRILLS,
VARIETY and NOVELTY ACTS that stagger the
Imagination.
11l PRODROME, Haymarkot, Sydney,
at 8 p.in.
Matinees Saturdays, Wednesdays and Holidays.
J C. YV 1 lil/IA.HS ON, LTI)Z
MELBOURNE ATTRACTIONS.
HIS MAJESTY’S: ROSE MARIE.
KING’S THEATRE: THE FAKE.
THEATRE ROYAL: TEA FOR THREE.
pRINCESS THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
■Welcome return of the Eminent Actress,
MURIEL STARR,
Commencing EASTER SATURDAY, APRIL 10 (at
the Matinee),
In Gladys Unger’s Brilliant Play,
THE GOLDFISH.
Box Plan at Glen’s.
A THEN A: U M THEA T R E,
rt MELBOURNE.
Proprietor: Frank Talbot Pty., Ltd.
Lessee: E. J. Carroll.
EVERY EVENING AT 8.15.
E. J. CARROLL presents
THE GHOST TRAIN.
I LAUGHABLE COMEDY WITH A THRILL.
Played by E. J. Carroll's London Comedy Company.
IVIEW BIJOU THEATRE, MELBOURNE
Twice Daily, 2.30 and 8.
PHIL SMITH REVUE CO.
Popular Prices. Plan Cen. 3251.
|y|AJESTIC THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
ATTRACTIVE HOLIDAY PROGRAMME.
LOWELL SHERMAN, WILLARD LOUIS and HELEN
COSTELLO
in
Tlie Warner Brothers’ Comedy,
THE LOVE TOY.
An innocent abroad. Kisses that caused a revolu-
tion all for the love of a princess.
Box Plan at Allan’s & Theatre. ’Phone 70/6 & 7790.
HO Y T’S B E LU XE THEATRE,
n MELBOURNE.
LEWIS STONE and DORIS KENYON
in
THE BLONDE SAINT,
FRANCIS MCDONALD and KATHLEEN KEY
in
THE DESEwT’S TOLL.
Prices ns usual.
THE
WOMAN’S MIRROR
Published Every Tuesday
Is the most popular 64-page
woman’s paper published in
the Commonwealth. It features
everything a woman ought to
know. Once you read it you
will never be without it.
Its up-to-date weekly pattern
is free for the asking.
Published by
The Bulletin Newspaper Co.,
214 George Street, Sydney.
in the special supper-room and the alcoves in
th.' Trocadero, where other supper tables were
brightened by crystal vases of roses and
African daisies. Colonel and Mrs. Stanley,
ivith Lieut.-Colonel Ridley to represent the
Meut.-Governor, received, Mrs. Ray Stanley
wearing shaded gold metal lace. Mrs. E.
S Mutton was in petunia chiffon velvet with
overdress of black net. Mrs. Ridley wore
jade-green. The one deb. was Colonel Evans’s
••hick Barbara, a pretty girl in ivory taffetas.
Mrs. Hughes wore black satin, Mrs. F. K.
lirodribb had a Paris frock of black and
jade, and Mrs. Henry Hancock wore per-
venche blue.
The vice-regal ball was held in the Aus-
tralian Estates' new woql store at New Farm.
An area of 1600 square feet was reserved
for dancing, and there were about the same
number of people present, so each had stand-
ing room, anyhow. The decorations were
in rose color, the approach being marked off:
with'looped pink ribbons. Red and purple
lights gleamed in thickets of palms inside the
building, and emerald and topaz lights shone
from a bank of greenery like fireflies: Rose
tulle and pink antignon decked the royal
table, and crystal vases of roses were on the
other tables. Mrs. Lennon, in black mariette,
received, with the Lieut.-Governor. _ The
Duchess wore ivory mariette over heavy ivory
satin with a pattern of silver nailliead studs.
A platinum and diamond tiara, pearls, and
a large emerald were her jewellery. She
carried a rose-tinted feather fan and was
presented with a posy of pale pink rosebuds
in shell-pink tulle. The Countess of Cavan
was in green mariette with broideries of
brown and moss, and Mrs. Little-Gilmour
wore beaten metal tissue in violet and rose
over violet mariette. The Royal pair had
die first dance together. In the second the
Duchess danced with Alan Lennon, the
Lieut.-Governor’s son, Eva Lennon, in apricot,
being the Duke’s partner; Kivas Tully, Jos
Francis, M.H.R., and Jock Robinson danced
with the Duchess, and amongst the Duke’s
partners were pretty Peggy Dods, Beth
Hutchinson, Margaret Wilson, Joan Glas-
gow and Mol lie Story. The f rocking was
specially beautiful. Mrs. T. J. Ryan wore
ivory georgette and silver, the Glasgow dame
was in foxglove unauve, Mrs. M. L. Reading
in black broidered in gold. Cecily Cadell-
Garrick in mignonette, Audrey Coldham in
pink, Lucy Mocatta (Sydney) in white broi-
dered in pale pink and green, Mrs. Austin
Lennon in eau de nil, Mrs. Espie Dods and
Mrs. E. S. Mutton in black, Mrs. F. K.
Brodribb in beaten gold, Daisy Echlin in
forest green, Mrs. Jack Fihelly in rose, Mrs.
Firmin McKinnon in blue and silver.
Countess di San Marzano in oyster satin, and
Mrs. E. T. Bell in pink. The Comte and
Comtesse de Tourneur, Mrs. AVilliam Collins
and Judge and Mrs. Macnaugliton .were
amongst the throng.
At the Parliamentary reception the
Duchess wore her famous white and blue
diamonds. She is looking well, and says
die Queensland climate suits her first rate.
At the reception in the University grounds,
a great many organisations, among them the
Women’s National Council, were represented.
The Duchess was in white chiffon, with a
white hat. Barbara Sisley recited a poem
of welcome by Mrs. Forrest, and both ladies
were presented. The Countess of Cavan wore
apricot.
Saturday was given up to a bushman’s car-
nival and aboriginal corroboree at Beau-
desert, and boomerangs and other native
weapons were handed to the Royal visitors.
The Duchess wore a coffee and pink coat,
trimmed with fox-fur, and her hat was
trimmed with ospreys. Many Brisbane folk
went out. The Yorks spent the night as
guests of the Robert Collinses at Tam-
rookmn station.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA.
Adelaide.
A reshuffling of arrangements for the
Royal visit substitutes a dinner for the
Government House reception, tucks in a
reception at TTnley on the way to the
Soldiers’ Hospital at Myrtle Bank, and
allows extra time for seeing returned and
invalided fighting men. Evenings are free,
except for the mayoral ball and dinners at
Government House.
Alfred Wells, his wife and their daughter,
the John Dunbars and their daughter (he was
once manager of the Union Bank here)
and the Frank Irwins were included in the
Ceramic’s passengers. The Nestor takes the
Willie Taylors, the IT. A. Cowans and the
Seymour Hawkers.
Th i s is
Falk’s plioto-
gapli of Miss
Cleggett, sec-
retary and
organiser and
life and soul
of the Tuber-
cular Soldiers’
Ai d Society.
At the moment
she is en -
de a voring to
work 26 hours
a day at the
annual appeal,
and is reap-
ing her reward
in a response
that promises
to carry the
final figures
far ahead of
previous
records.
The newly-fledged Marino Golf Club has
thriven so mightily that it decided to cele-
brate its own vigor with a couple of dances,
staging the first in the Glenelg Maison de
I lance on Thursday. A committee, headed
by the club’s president, Dr. M. E. Goode,
'lid the honors, and for decorations added to
the Maison’s new furbishings bunting and
greenery and huge bowls of asters.
The Turf Club’s meeting at Cheltenham
and the polo gymkhana at Birkalla provided
rival attractions for amateur sportsmen. The
Bridges managed both (she in scarlet and
beige georgette topped by a* marocain coat
en suite), and had with them A.D.C. and
Mrs. Armstrong, the latter in cherry-
colored crepe de Chine with a wide-brimmed
hat. For all we are in April, ’twas a
warmish day, and dressing was mostly sum-
mery. Mrs.' Richard Hawker, who hostessed
the Turf Club’s luncheon and afternoon tea,
had diagonal frills athwart her beige-colored
marocain, and there were brown os.rich
feathers in her shady hat. There were
jumper suits in plenty, one of the most
attractive a soft pink worn by a. younger
matron and another dull brown with
embroidery that was a riot of autumn
shades.
Mrs. Rischbieth, of Perth, passing through
to Melbourne, was lunched by her fellow
feminists here, and found time to say a
word or two auent the elections have
given AVestralia a woman member. She is
all for organising women voters as women,
and in the Federation of Women’s Societies
for Equal Citizenship- sees the beginning of
an organisation that will put a host of
feminine car didates in the field.
WESTRALIA.
Perth.
A packed house greeted the first night of
“II Trovatore” by the Italo-Australian Opera
Co. Standing-room was sold at stalls’ prices
and at 6.30 even the “gods” ticket-window
snapped to. The principals have fine voices and
the chorus, though small, is well trained.
Count Filippini is principal baritone as well
as producer, Enrico Rigattiere has sung
under Mascagni, and Barbares appeared in
the Metropolitan Opera House, New York.
Enthusiastic audiences witnessed “Cavalleria
Rustieana” bracketed with “Pagliacci” on
the one night. “Faust,” “Carmen,” “Rigo-
letto” and “Traviata” will be heard during
the fortnight.
Marga ret
Saunders, pic-
tured here by
Bardwell
Clark, learned
to handle pen-
cil and brush
at the Royal
uibernian
Academy, i n
Paris and
at St. John's
Wood School
in London.
She was asso-
ciated wi t h
Van Raalte in
directing the
Perth School
of Art, and on
his departure
for Adelaide
succeeded him
as principal.
She specialises
in port rait
work, but has to her credit many water-color
landscapes and pen-and-ink sketches of Aus-
tralian scenery. She is art mistress at sev-
eral of the larger secondary schools and can
coax even the laziest young mind to interest,
if not enthsuiasm. Though it is over six
years since she waved farewell to her native
Erin her brogue is fascinating as ever.
The Comtessa Filippini is a Sydney-born
girl. Since her marriage some years ago
she has been the musical director of her hus-
band’s opera companies, and has assisted him
greatly in his classes in Adelaide, where
they have had their home. Incidentally, she
is delighted with the local players who joined
her orchestra for the season.
Two women motorists, Mrs. Sandford, of
Maoriland, and Miss Christie, have just
piloted an Essex coach from Sydney to
Perth. Owing to abnormal rain three weeks
were spent on the journey. They found the
desert disappointing; instead of trackless
arid wastes they discovered a very boggy
road running through a wet plain. Mrs.
Sandford was the first woman to qualify for
an air-pilot’s license in Maoriland. After a
motoring jaunt round Australia she proposes
to fly about the continent, and dreams of a
Cape-to-Cairo buzz.
TASMANIA.
Hobart.
Sir James O’Grady made a sporting offer
to the Sliakspearean Society at its annual
meeting last week —he is ready to lend
Government House grounds for an open-air
performance.
His Ex. and Miss O’Grady attended the
Autumn meeting at Elwick, where the lawn
showed an eruption of purplish patches, the
prevailing shades of autumn and winter
smart wear running very generally to those
tones. (“Pink trying to be purple,” as
Whistler defined mauve.) The Oronsay
and the Ceramic being in port, there were
a number of passers-by, among them Ada
Reeve, who attracted as much attention as
all the winners. Also present the Merson
Coopers, the Do Bavays, ex-Commissioncr
James Elder, and many country visitors.
The Governor, accompanied by Miss
O'Grady, opened the “Charity Monday” Fair,
when the gift of the children of Tasmania
to Princess Elizabeth was on view. His Ex.
in his opening speech highly complimented
Coogans. the makers of the dainty black-
wood bedroom suite of doll's furniture —“the
highest expression of the cabinetmakers’
art,” he called it; and he knows something
about the business.
The Women’s Non-Party League held its
annual meeting at the Imperial. Mrs. Thus.
Murdoch, the president, entertained all the
members at tea, after the mere business
affairs had been put through.
Sixty-five debs, are practising their curt-
seys under the direction of Gladys Smith,
in view of the coming Visit. No one is
lending even so much as half an ear to the
whispered rumor that the Duchess may not
be coming, after all. There seems to be
just as much in it as there was in the stupid
taradiddle that she wouldn’t join the Duke
at the landing in Sydney.
Of course, since making electric current
is one of our great natural industries, we
are going to have a “Power” arch for the
Duke and Duchess, and we hope to have
an apple arch also, on the lines of the
beautiful one erected when the present King
and Queen were here.


STETSON COWBOY HATS
WALTHER
& STEVENSON, Ltd.
395 George Street, Sydney.
A STETSON FOR LONG SERVICE
In Three Shapes, Suitable
for Australian Station Wear.
THE “DRIVE,” at 03/-, with Raw Edge,
Gin. crown and 3in. Brim.
THE “CARLSBAD JR.,” at 75/-, with
Raw Edge, 6Jin. crown and olin. brim.
THE "CARBON,” at 87/0, with Raw Edge,
Tin. crown and 4in. brim.
WRITE FOR OUR CATALOGUE OF
AUSTRALIAN AND TEXAS SADDLERY
AND COWBOY OUTFITS.
THE “TEXAS RANGER” Cowboy Saddle,
£l3/13/-
COWBOY CHAPS, with Fringe, 85/-
FANCY COWBOY BRIDLE, with Gun-
metal Cowboy Bit, Horse Head on Cheek,
76/-
FANCY STUDDED COWBOY BREAST-
PLATE, 75/-
GENUINE AMERICAN LARIAT, with
Rawhide Honda, 05/-
* COWBOY SPURS, CUFFS, QUIRTS,
STIRRUPS, TAPADEROS, ETC.
A ROYAL
SMOKE
actual size
The cigar for
particular
smokers.
All Hotels and
Tobacconists.
6d. each
10 cigars, 6/«
25, 12/6
50, 23/9
100, 46/-
Post paid to anj
address.
Sampler Box.
containing two
cigars, 1/- post
free.
CRAIG 8 AITREN,
6548 George Street
Sydney,
Distributors for
Club Reil
Cigar
Factory.
it
%
■<Z\ g
'<ri
9 /
CASH’S
WASHABLE
RIBBONS
( Brocaded )
Ideal for Linaerie
IMPARTING a Charm of
1 Daintiness and Distinc-
tion— madeof Guaranteed
Fast Washing Silks with
Pretty Brocaded Effedts in
Dainty Pastel Shades—
once threaded there’s no
need to remove for Wash-
ing. 1-in. width is largely
used for Shoulder Straps.
,c 4sk Your'Draper
IF UNOBTAINABLE WRITE TO
J. & J. CASH PTY. LTD.
Cubitt St.. Richmond
MELBOURNE
If any illustration in “THE BULLETIN” takes your fancy, write
to the MANAGER, who will quote you price for the original.
/
/
/
The beach picnic
"c/Utnoug,) the 'weather turns out wet,
< %l9e still enjoy our c/lnchovette. ”
PECKS
CHOVEITf
Always keep a jar in the pantry
PuA
Answers to Correspondents.
A'o notice (except of a hostile character) will he
taken of communications insufficiently stc.moed.
Name and address must appear on the MS. No
liability is undertaken re contributions volun-
tarily submitted: and no MS. will be returned
unless stamps accompany.
W.J.W.: Your humor comes under the
heading of noxious trades... .V.T.H.: Good verse,
but it has no kick. .. .R.V.L.: Nothing in it but
the rhymes... .K.A.L.: Most of it was said the other
day... .A.H.P.: No place for them here... .H.V.8.:
Points are not sharp enough.... Gwen Iv. P.: No
demand for the dawdling essay. .. .Back C.: The
“Land” section has got hardly any room for plain
news and none at all for large masses of undigested
statistics. It aims to be above all things a very
practical off-sider to the farmer of every sort....
H. J.N.: Still very wooden.... Marjorie G. S.: Just
not quite.... France M.: “Library” wants saying;
but your pen has wandered... .W. 8.: Extracting
vague details under cross-examination is a dull way
of telling a yarn... .Chas. H.: Almost up to the level
of “The Wild Colonial 80y”....P0m: Too slight.
. ...A.G.C.: Immature... .W.H.8.: Well done in
parts but fails to satisfy as a story. .. . J.J.M.:
Doggerel P.E.S.: You gaze at the shingled heads
of other girls, and immediately vision the blue eyes
of the one girl. That’s a mere personal thrill....
Pat: No, begorrah... .T.A.W.: Yarn promised well
but finished only as a bad dream. .. . A.A.W.: Tortu-
ously told; you raise no sympathy for the woman
with the obsession of hate. .. .Patricia M.: Poor. .. .
V.H.T.: The girl herself is the right address for
such verses G.R.M.: You were so intent on word-
spinning that you failed to spin a yarn... . J.G.W.:
By the time we reached “I glory in my sorrow, for
my dear old mare is dead,” our heart was nearly
broken.. . .E.F.W. : Little improvement; idea not
great in any case... .M.L.L.: Not badly told, but
tame.. . .Ben T.: And all for the sake of introducing
that “bloody” at the end... .D.E.S.: Perhaps a
mournful desire to kneel by a grave is something to
make a song about, but you don’t make one. .. .
G. : It has an original touch: —
He has gone back to his Giver
Who he served since he was quite a lad,
For, except he had a liver,
He was as kind a father as anyone e’er had.
... .A.8.C.: Moves stiffly... .G.8.C.: Can’t get any
thrill out of “Chadging.”... .Cam D.: Don’t feel
inclined to take your “Gruel”....L.M.D.: Its
tragedy is the verse in which it is written.
. ... F.S.H.: Playlet somewhat vague in conclusion.
....Dorothy H.: Not incisive enough... .P.G.M.:
Her eyes (a) ran up and down the street; (b)
leaped to the mantelpiece; (c) shrank before him ;
(d) fell into the valley below; (e) climbed the tall
mountain, even to the top; and (f) shot forth what
was, in effect, a shout of joy. Most athletic eyes
we have met... .F.J.H.: Arrived too late. .. .Pat:
Can’t you get away from that jog-trot?... .D.R.8.:
“How Long, O Lord, How Long?” has points; but
over 5000 words is a great deal too long. . . .P.L.G.:
It died of amemia, partly helped by being fed with
indigestible words... .W.H.T.: The long-drawn
picture of an author contemplating suicide lacks
interest. If he had destroyed himself by swallowing
his typewriter there might have been something in
it E.A.0.: Can’t notice pars—The Bulletin's
60 pages can afford only one column for answers.
Publication shows whether pars are suitable....
Bellerive: “Outward Bound” runs its course:—
“Please steward,” groaned a lady,
“Bring me a soda-water.”
“Yes, Madam.” he responded with
A sweet smile at her daughter.
Sick and giddy voyagers,
As the vessel cleared the swell,
To their bunks did stagger
From the steam-and-onion smell.
The active steward balanced
With a basin and two plates,
And glided to a table
Like an acrobat on skates.
A fat and short Italian,
In a pathetic way,
Airs from Maritana upon
He’s violin did play
Those whom weren’t bilious
Did frolic on the Deck,
Where an actor quoted Hamlet
With a towel around he’s neck.
When the horizon did darken.
And the winds began to blow,
“A storm!” they ejaculated
And scrambled down below.
. ...Gobbins: “King Tar” is crude material....
Huld. S.: Why that first and last line? Do you
think no rhyme makes them more impressive?....
S.L.P.: Apparently it came from nowhere. It got
nowhere... .R.G.W.: One may do; others too slight.
. ...0.D.: Nothing but an oppressive sigh in your
“Silence”. .. .M.R.C.: The “capricious”-“wit hes”
rhyme is a bold effort... .E.M.G.: As you put it,
“doggrel”. ...Bizee: What really happened? Some
explanation is needed. .. .D.M.C.: “The sun-kissed
sparkling beauty to a gum-tree tall.” Now what,
precisely, does that mean A.S.: A weird sort of
“Welcome”... .R.D.W.: The “dark curls clustering
round your head” hardly seems right. Didn’t the
swimmer get her hair wet?....Les G.: The variation
in verse-line lengths is the particular banana-skin.
....Aussie Bill: You’ve trodden few rougher tracks
than the one that verse takes.... G.A.M.: Fair stuff ;
three may do. ... J.C.W.: If ponderous verse like
that was written in Atlantis, no wonder Atlantis
was lost. Send something better. .. .Oliver M.:
But was Richard 111. “England’s worst king” ?
More good schools and charities in England date
their origin hack to Richard’s short three years
than to the term of any other monarch before
Elizabeth. His interference with privilege was prob-
ably his worst offence... .J.M.C.: Your “Wet Night
Episode” is dry rot... Del G.: Your characters speak
like pensioned politicians... .P.R.G.: So the parson
had a drink-—proof of his unworthiness as a man
and a lover. Terrible!... .T.N.T.: “Ostenaciously
adumbrating the affirmative opinion regarding a
celestial continuation of man’s spiritual existence.”
Do you always make your sardines talk like whales?
.... Soames: Immature; but go on and watch your
rhymes. .. .Charles W.: It rhymes; but it isn't
poetry... .A.C.McK.: Well enough written; but too
objective... .V.C.W.: Well done; but the ending is
tame.. . .F.A.W.: Hardly worth it... .Geo. Lin:
“Danny” is very promising. Keep on.
TO ARTISTIC (AND INARTISTIC)
CORK ESI’ON DENTS.
G.S.: Promising, but why go to a far country for
inspiration?... .C.T.G.: The art is as bad as the
spelling... .8.A.A.: Can’t see the drawing through
the clutter of labels. .. .0.C.P.: Stilted penmanship;
and hobble skirts are out of fashion... .D.P.: You
won’t land a cheque by using stale bait. .. .S.R.:
Vague and blotchy. . . .W.J.T.: So you destroyed three
previous attempts. Why did you spare the fourth?. ...
H. : Sozzled bee-farmer sitting on a hive and croon-
ing to the inmates. Begone! T.M.: Your “first
attempt” should be your last unless you can improve
a t0n....N.E.: Translations of jokes in foreign
papers are not wanted ... .H.L.: That effort won’t buy
you the Easter duck.
THE INKY WAY.
“Dash D.” : The trial of telephotography
recently made between Melbourne Herald
and Sydney Sun was unsuccessful, probably
because of the inefficient wire between the
two capitals. Faint reproductions of pic-
tures were received, but they might have
represented either a day at the races or a
storm at sea. A trial by radio is contem-
plated.
London papers pay generous tributes to
the late Martin Donohoe, who began his
journalistic career at Sydney in the early
’nineties and subsequently became one of the
best-known of modern war correspondents.
Donohoe was so keen on “getting in first"
with his copy that during Lord Rqberts’s
advance on Pretoria he managed to get suf-
ficiently far ahead of his own side to fall
into the hands of the retreating Boers. But
he turned even his period of imprisonment to
account by securing an interview with Oom
Paul Kruger which was served up hot to
London readers as soon as Pretoria fell.
Professor David and Colonel Arthur Lynch
were among those present at Donohoe’s
funeral.
“Dum Spiro”: There is a homely touch
about the following apology in a N.S.W.
country paper for the late delivery of papers
to subscribers:—
Owing to the absence of Joe, spending a week
recuperating at Manly after measles, we have not
been able to send the papers out as early as usual.
Joe will be back next week.
“Grass Hand”: The dourest chief sub.
I ever knew was so hard that the oldest
man on the staff couldn’t remember hearing
him laugh. If he had a sense of humor it
was so deep we couldn’t discover it, until
one ni'ght when every darned thing went
wrong so badly that words couldn’t do jus-
tice to it. We expected the old man to have
an apoplectic fit or something, but he didn't.
Instead, a glow of perfect contentment over-
spread his granite features and he sat at
his table crooning what sounded like a hymn.
After a while we pieced together the opening
words. They were: “If ever I 10-ved Thee,
my Sa-viour, ’tis now.”
“C.Q.” : The modern practice of illustrat-
ing even the most trifling paragraph with a
“cut” more or less related to the subject
matter was carried to the sublimest height
by Melbourne Herald recently when report-
ing that the first autumn rains had brought
out the mushrooms. To make sure its readers
would understand what it was talking about,
it included a picture of a family group of
the fungus.
“Ces.”: W. Taylor Darbyshire, London
manager of the Australian Press Associa-
tion, returned to Australia on the Renown
after eight years’ absence. As a journalist
he spilled ink in most of the States, ami
before moving to London was publicity man
for Williamson’s. Another Australian press-
man on the Renown is Bill Tonkin, who is
staying in Australia to take control of the
Sydney Sunday Sun. Two Englishmen are
lan Lucas, of Reuter’s, and Bill Fair, photo-
grapher from the Central News. Fair has
“shot” royalty for years; he travelled with
the Prince of Wales to Africa and Japan.
The bronze medal handed by the Festival
of Arts and Letters of Britain to Robert
David Fitzgerald carries with it the oppor-
tunity of having his collected verses, "L
Meet the Sun,” published in Britaiu—tke
book came out in Australia last year. Lm
only other Australian who has received tm»
award is Professor L. H. Allen of Duntroon:
both are Bulletin contributors. I ltzgeraio.
who is a nephew of Professor J. Le uaj
Brereton, is 25. The publication of his book
in England means more to the ambitious poit
than the medal. But probablv the best thnp,
he ever wrote —and the longest-^—is still
The Bulletin’s hands awaiting
plans are altered) the next_ Chnstm.s
number, which is already beginning to sn
up on the stocks.
“Spare Sub”; When the South, African
press lightly turns to thoughts of in ® r ®®.
circulation it seems to avoid the exhibit
of half-naked young females in its il ustm
tions —perhaps because it balks at hoW I g P
white women for the admiration of tne g
ing Kaffir. Johannesburg Sunday Times
is a case in point. It lias capped its
by conducting a fly-killing campaign, _
aiming at reducing and rot increasing «!
ruptive influences. The Herald dn
same in Melbourne during the s™ lll , ’
but its figures never reached m
African heights: the final bag \
52.815,775 flies. The winner, a Mrs. L o ;
collected ,£l5 for 8,694,450 flies, 8,1 ~ ,
earned her money, while second an '
also housewives, took £lO £< tor 0
six and four millions respectivelj. Tj ■ .
a cleaner game than the nudity sch. • ‘
if extended to the out-back blowfh . a
create a country circulation, as w
metropolitan one.
A DROP OP INK.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Each day a journalist is born,
And sets out gaily as in play,
Trudging along the roadway worn
By many leet, the Inky Way.
At first the going’s good and gay;
K o obstacle ahead remains;
And his equipment for the fray—
A drop of ink within his veins.
The poet views the road with scorn;
He takes more picturesque a way;
lie for blank verse and rhyme was born —
Not his to chronicle each day;
He writes not for the common clay,
No touch of trade his work profanes;
But soon the price he has to pay—
He has that drop within his veins.
But Art is long, the road forlorn,
And odes and lyrics do not pay,
And so he comes to that last bourne
Where rent is due each Saturday.
Compulsion now he must obey;
To daily tasks he gives his brains—
Fate put in him his natal day
That drop in ink within his veins.
So now the journalist each day
Dons thankfully his galley chains;
His penalty he has to pay
For that black drop within his veins.
N.S.W.
A. H. A.


Ride
.S.A. this year
Prices from
£57/10/0
B.S.A. 2.49-h.p. de Luxe Motor Bicycle.
Easy Payment
/|>
Terms
if desired
THIS year will be a B.S.A. year.
B.S.A. Motor Bicyles are gaining
in popularity month by month, and
there is now no quarter of the civilised
globe in which they are not known
and ridden. The reason for this
immense popularity is their consistent
reliability and the outstanding value
offered in the comprehensive B.S.A.
range. Whether for competition work
or for touring, solo or sidecar, you will
find a machine just to suit your re-
quirements in the B.S.A.range. Choose
one now and make one of the world-
wide army of satisfied B.S.A. riders.
The B.S.A. Range.
B.S.A. 2.49-h.p £57/10/-
B.S.A. 2.49-h.p. de Luxe .. £62/10/-
B.S.A. 3.49-h.p £67/10/-
B.S.A. 3.49-h.p. O.H.V. ... £75/ 0/-
B.S.A. 3.49-h.p.
Super-Sports O.H.V. £B2/10/-
B.S.A. 4.93-h.p £69/10/-
B.S.A. 4.93-h.p. de Luxe .. £77/10/
B.S.A. 4.93-h.p. O.H.V. ... £95/ 0 /
B.S.A. 5.57-h.p £B2/10/
B.S.A. UO-kp. Twin Cyl. £97/10/
B.S.A. 7.70-h.p. de Luxe Twin £lO5/ 0 /
B.S.A. 9.86-h.p. de Luxe Twin £lO7/10/
B.S.A. 9.86-h.p. Colonial ... £lO7/10/
Motor Bicycles
Send for Catalogue and particulars of Easy Payment Terms
AUSTRALIAN DISTRIBUTING AGENTS:
N.S.W. 1
Q’LANDj
BENNETT & WOOD, LTD.,
284 Pitt Street, Sydney.
VICTORIA- F//VL/I Y BROS. MOTOR CYCLES
PTYm, LTD.,
322 Elizabeth Street, Melbourne.
SOUTH AUS.-c/. N. TAYLOR & CO., LTD.,
121 Grenfell Street, Adelaide „
WEST AUS.-MORTLOCK BROS., LTD.,
890 Hay Street, Perth.
TASMANIA —sim king pty., ltd.,
63 Brisbane Street, Launceston.
Look for this
Trade-mark
B.S.A. Sub-Agents Throughout Australia.
0 Y. RENNIE ( Factory Representative), 49 ELIZABETH STREET, MELBOURNE.


MARTELL'S
BRANDY
al
( The Essence of
Hospitality 3
cMARTELL’S
for A&e and Quality*
From the Cognac District
of France only .
gpGEWORTK
HIGH GRADE
o.
SMOKING TOBACCO
Australian Agents: R. TOWNS & CO., SYDNEY.
SUNDRY SHOWS.
SYDNEY SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Her Majesty's Comic Opera
Criterion “Sweet Nell of Old Drury”
Royal “The Cousin from Nowhere’’
Palace “Six-Cylinder Love”
Empire “Sunny”
Grand Opera House “The Nervous Wreck”
Fullers’ Vaudeville
Tivoli Vaudeville
Hippodrome Wirths’ Circus
MELBOURNE SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
His Majesty’s “Rose Marie”
King’s “The Fake”
Royal “Tea for Three”
Princess “The Goldfish”
Atiiex.eum “The Ghost Train”
Tivoli Vaudeville
Rijou Vaudeville
Majestic Moving Pictures
Hoyt’s , Moving Pictures
+
The first of the two concerts in -which
Melba and John Lemmone are ostensibly
bidding their professional farewells to Sydney
took place on Saturday night at the Town
Hall, and it goes without saying that a
crowded house greeted the great singer and
her old friend and fellow-artist. The pro-
gramme may well have been designed to show
the autumn glory of a soprano voice rather
than the daffodil-and-lark ecstasy of its early
spring. But its serme beauty was never
in doubt from the opening notes of the
Mozart cavatina “Porgi Amor.” “Voi Che
Sapete” from the same opera, “The
Marriage of Figaro,” charmed the ear with
its lyric quality and that apparent simplicity
which is only attained by supreme gifts and
years of patient effort. But the outstanding
work of the evening was Melba’s singing of
the Willow Song. This is an evergreen with
the diva, and always lurks around some turn-
ing of the programme, When Verdi wrote
“Otello” .lie may have dreamed of somebody
who would utter that “Salce ! Salce !” with
the sweetness of desolation with which in
years to come an Australian singer would
invest it. The “Ave Maria” with which this
tragic number ends was delivered with a
fervor and an absolute sexlessness of tone
that made it a real prayer. “Coming Thro’
the Bye” and “Home, Sweet Home” —the
last of course accompanied by the Dame her-
self —were something of a declension. Melba
cannot sing “Cornin’ Thro’ the Rye,” and
flic world has gone a long way past “Home,
Sweet Home.” Melba’s latest find, the basso
Stuart Robertson, is a presentable young
man who sings with easy grace and enunciates
with clarity. To do him justice, he does not
appear to think his voice a world-beater. His
best offering was “Ireland’s Sea Fever.” John
Lemmone fluted tunefully, and was given an
ovation as loud of hand as Melba herself.
Lindley Evans played a Beethoven rondo
with sweetness of tone and accompanied with
understanding; and the orchestra, which
provided the accompaniment for both the
Melba and the Lemmone numbers, meandered
charmingly on its own in the scherzo from
Mendelssohn’s “Midsummer Night’s Dream”
and the Mozart overture (“Le Nozze di
Figaro”).
❖ H? * $
“The Cousin from Nowhere,” at
Sydney Royal, gives very little occu-
pation for the chorus and ballet,
but it has an unusually coherent plot trim-
med with some very nice music. In its
previous stagings in Sydney and Melbourne
there were difficulties over the part of Julia
Van Osten; it was in this role, after two
other leading ladies had failed to meet require-
ments, that Maud Fane broke with the Wil-
liamson management. In the Sydney revival
Margery Hicklin is the girl who plays a
joke upon a handsome tramp by making him
believe he has arrived at a fairy hotel where
his lightest wish will be gratified; and she
fits well, after making a colorless start.
Leyland Hodgson, with a thoroughness in
his lines which indicated that the manage-
ment was not unprepared for AVarde Mor-
gan’s inability to take the part yet awhile,
presents a breezy First Stranger; he is a
trifle matter-of-fact in the face of the won-
ders of the fairy hotel, but a very pleasing
voice compensates for some minor deficiencies.
The scheming comedy uncle is Arthur
Stigant; and as Adrian Van Piffel Gus
Bluett, with entire approval from the audi-
ence, shows an inclination to chase laughs
over the border of farce, adding to his other
work some good comedy dances. The Second
Stranger, who arrives on the stage in a
shower of bricks, is Leo Franklin; Floie
Allan makes a vivacious Freda, and Marie
le Varee gives entire satisfaction as
Wimpy. The run of the attractive trifle
is limited to three weeks ; on Saturday fort-
night “Tip Toes” makes its appearance. This
is the piece in which Australian Jack Kirby
has made a big hit in London.
Time has not withered the infinite charm
of Nellie Stewart in “Sweet Nell of Old
Drury.” Nellie’s return was made first in
the name of charity; but the old favorite
scored such a knock-out with a delighted
public that William Russell induced her to
give a fortnight’s season for her own sake
and his at the Grand Opera House. Russell
had some misgivings when the lady put
her foot down on the cheap-price tariff
which he had instituted at the li.O.lI.; but
a triumphant season fully justified her atti •
tude, and drew the attention of the J. C.
Williamson management to a re-discovered
goldmine. Back from a successful season
in Melbourne, Nellie started another fort-
night's revival at the Sydney Criterion on
Saturday night, and showed a delighted audi-
ence that she has by no means outlived her
capacity to be the sweet-faced, cheeky orange-
girl of the first act, the alluring king’s favor-
ite of later on. She received very capable
assistance from Arthur Greenaway, who
showed admirable glimpses of a character
which unites a touch of the satyr with some
fine generosity; and from Sydney Stirling,
as Lord Lovelace. Judge Jeffreys suffered
somewhat in the hands of Norman Campbell,
who failed to give a convincing touch to the
brutality of His Dishonor; but all minor
weaknesses were submerged in the triumph
of Nellie, on whom the audience lavished
warm and continuous tributes of apprecia-
tion. The revival will run until Friday of
next week; on the Saturday “The Cradle
Snatchers” will take'possession.
The Gilbert and Sullivan season comes to
a conclusion this Thursday night, when, as
a send-off, the company is giving a blended
bill—the first act of “The Yeomen of the
Guard” and the second act of “The Gondo-
liers.” In the final week’s revivals the best
item was the appearance of Strella Wilson
as Yum-Yum in “The Mikado,” which took
place last Friday night when Charles
Walenn’s understudy, Elved Jenkins, played
his part of Ko-Ko, and played it very well.
The gallery girls will storm the early doors
at Sydney Her Majesty’s on Saturday night,
when Marie Burke comes back in “Frasr
quita.”
Hundreds were turned away from the
second concert of the Beethoven festival.
This should give the Con. authorities heart
of grace to engage the Town Hall for the
next big orchestral concert. The playing
of the orchestra was better at the second
than at the first concert. The overture
(“Leonore,” No. 3) is a particularly well-
written work; the mysticism of the opening
phrases was well portrayed, and made up
for the blurred impression and lack of bal-
ance in the stirring fortissimo for strings just
before the triumphant end. In the Sym-
phony, No. 9, in D minor—The Choral —
supposed to be the crowning glory of the
composer’s work, the orchestra was heard
to most advantage in the first and the second
movements. In the third movement the
emotional character was not sufficiently
marked; the tone of the contrasted motifs
was seldom varied, and a sense of monotony
was only prevented by the elaborate embroid-
ery presented by the composer. The orches-
tra invested the final movement with plenty
of life and this was well maintained by the
choir and quartette. The exacting varia-
tions of the Chorale work were well handled,
and the Master’s intention of deifying joy
was well seconded by the forces at the con-
ductor’s command. In the third piano
concerto Frank Hutchens played the piano
part with real beauty, this being the best
thing he has done in Sydney. The orches-
tra fell a little short in parts of the first
movement but the other two movements were
very well accompanied.
“SIX-CYLINDER LOVE” AT SYDNEY
PALACE.
Hale For cross, the man who sold the second-
hand car, regards Richard Taber, the
purchaser, suffering silently under the
incubus.
The orchestra, with Cyril Monk as leader,
was easily the winner in the Sydney Phil-
harmonic production of “Samson and Deli-
lah” last week. Vocally the Phil, was not
up to the Saint Saens mixture of opera and
oratorio. Lance Jeffree was such a lignt-
weight Samson that nothing but a papier-
maclie temple could have been overthrown
by him ; and Mrs. Bennett-North’s Delilah,
though melodious and musieianly, sounded a
reformed vamp. Perhaps this is accounted
for by the concert setting. No singer would
dare to be seductive against a background of
the impeccable shirt-fronts of the Philhar-
monic. The choral numbers were particu-
larly strong in the last act; and as this is
only the fourth performance by the society
of this work in 17 years, Joe Bradley and
his hosts may be credited with making a
good attack on the heights, though they failed
to plant the banner on the topmost peak.
“TEA FOR THREE.” AT MELBOURNE
ROYAL.
Judith Anderson as the wife, Leon Gordon
as the friend.
“The Nervous Wreck” ceases to breeze
through the American Wild West at
Sydney Grand Opera House on Satur-
day night, when “Charley’s Aunt” hops back.
The Palace Theatre is proving a cosy
home for “Six-Cylinder Love” ; and “Sunny”
is drawing like a poultice at the Em-
pire. At the Hippodrome Wirths’ Circus
cus continues to stimulate with its boxful of
tricks.
* * % ❖
Sydney Tivoli is shifting practically
its entire programme to make way for new
turns for Easter; and Tom Kelly, whose stay
has been too short, is one of those whom
audiences have been farewelling during the
last few days. The new arrival this week
is Belmont’s Canary Opera, with 27 feath-
ered packets of trained melody. Mantell’s
Mannikins are back, too, and show themselves
amusing as well as ingenious marionettes.
There is a continual change of courtiers in
Fullers’ Theatre, Sydney, where Stilly and Mo
have established their kingdom; this week
introduces David and Queenie Kali, who call
their specialty “Hawaiian Melodies.” It is
nearly three years ago since this duo
appeared first in Australia on the Tivoli
circuit; they were the kingpins of “The
Hawaiians,” with whom the Carrolls opened
Melbourne Athenaeum successfully, and
they have managed to keep going in Aus-
tralia ever since. On Saturday night they
were voted one of the best things in the
programme. Leslie and Pitcher are another
interesting pair who make a specialty of
using a multitude of musical instruments in
a manner in which musical instruments were
never intended to be used.
v ‘ln
Scenery is the sole attraction of “The
Desert’s Toll,” now showing at the Strand
and Hoyt’s. The setting is amazing, a night-
mare of enormous cliffs, grotesque piles of
rocks, uncouth truncated summits in a vast
arena of jagged chaos. The story is puerile.
A girl sets forth into this jumbled-up scenery
to find a missing man who has discovered a
goldmine. Three ruffians repeat the hack-
neyed trick of tying up the hero to a tree
in a desert for the sun to kill him by degrees,
a scheme that always fails to come off in
novels and films, whatever it may do in real
life. It is time that movie villains learnt
more business-like ways of disposing of
their enemies.
* Hf * *
It is years since the first talking-picture
was shown in Sydney, but it is only lately
that a machine has been perfected to syn-
chronise the voice and the film. Just to
show that it is keeping well abreast of such
new developments, the De Forest Phono-
films (Australia) invited the press and a
few others to a demonstration at Rushcut-
ters Bay on Wednesday of last week.
Amongst the items was a picture of the
landing of the Duke and Duchess at Farm
Cove; whilst the ceremony went on, the
cheers of the multitude were heard. The
effects produced were excellent, and supply
another argument for more adequate pro-
tection of our own local film industry.
A troubadour of paint:—
Will Ashton is a wandering troubadour who sing?
his songs in paint; he has the troubadour's facility
for catching a. mood and interpreting it before it
has time to pass. His 41 exhibits at the Mac
quarie Galleries, one of which, “Monaco,” has been
purchased by the Art Gallery Trustees, is a breezy,
delightful show, full of good draughtsmanship awl
a keen appreciation of tonal values. One leaves u
with the impression that Ashton makes up his mind
to paint the moment a delight in some fresh seem
has flooded his soul, and captures it with masterly
swiftness. You may wander with the painter from
Western Europe to Colombo, and it is all a gladness
to the eye. ;;
* * H* *
“The Fake,” by Frederick Lonsdale, was
introduced to Melbourne King’s on Saturday.
A middle-aged friend (Moscovitch) of an
English couple (Mary Macgregor and Nat
Madison) decides that the wife would be
happier if the husband, who is a drug addict
and an unpleasant fellow generally, were
dead. Accordingly, he invites the superfluous
person to a quiet seaside resort, and after
offering him the alternative of suicide,
poisons him. The widow thereupon marries
the man (Reginald Newson) she really loves,
and the murderer the girl’s vain and
pompous father (Geoi-ge Blunt) a satisfac-
tory talking to for permitting the previous
match. The preposterous melodrama might
have been written to popularise murder
among the non-murdering classes, but it is
a tribute to the easy charm and sincerity
of the Russian principal that he makes it
impossible not to take him seriously. While
Moscovitch never seems to be acting, yet he
always manages to create dramatically
sound situations. Son Madison discards
the usual stock-in-trade of the stage-dope
fiend, and relies on sparse gestures to con-
vey his physical and moral deterioration.
Mary Macgregor is a pretty, pathetic speci-
men of downtrodden domesticity, and George
Blunt, her dad, bulks comically large. Most
of the others have the animation of a stand of
petrol bowsers.
# ** * #
“The Ghost Train” at the Athenaeum and
“Rose Marie” at His Majesty’s, both of
Melbourne, are two lines which need no
push. The infernal triangle at the Royal,
however, is shortly to be broken by Leon
Gordon’s departure for London. Judith
Anderson will stay and show us how she
looks in “The Green Hat.”
** * *
“Gum Tree Gully,” Kate Howarde’s prose
epic of the bush, is in its sixth week and
going with a cheerful swing, the only falling
off being in the lustre on Vivian Edwards's
riding boots. No villain should neglect the
polish on his riding boots.
*
After a week’s holiday Melbourne Princess
will resume business with “The Goldfish,” and
Muriel Starr, as Jennie Wetherby. will
divorce an unusual number of husbands.
Harvey Adams, a newcomer, will be Miss
Starr’s opposing male.
* sk *
A great wealth of girls in bathing costumes
is displayed outside the Majestic Theatre,
evidence of some sort of beauty com-
petition. There are pictures, however, sand-
wiched in between the classic forms, and
Shirley Mason is providing sartorial con-
trasts as “Swyeet Rosie O’Grady,” the girl
who starts off in print dresses and ends in
brocades and beads. At Hoyt’s house Lewis
Stone is “The Blonde Saint.” Evelyn Brent
is also to be seen in “The Broadway Girl.”
ijc ;$e s];
Melbourne has been getting of late a
lot of plays secondhand from Sydney, but she
is soon to be given some “first productions."
One will be Michael Arlen’s “Green Ilat,” to
be staged at the Royal by Leon Gordon, who
will leave for England immediately after the
first night, to avoid the bricks, if any. Judith
Anderson will wear the gay headpiece. At the
King’s Moscovitch will produce “The Ringer,'
by Edgar Wallace. This exciting crook
drama, through which the London police
search industriously for a super-murderer, had
a long run at Wyndham's theatre.
Melbourne Princess has relapsed into an
astonied silence after six weeks of the
Shakspearean season. Never has that rococo
playhouse suffered such an onslaught, both
within and from without. What with the
indomitable Wilkie’s stampings, sabre-
rattlings and polysyllabic bellowings within;
chars-a-bancs discharging wdmle female semi-
naries at the door; the steady tramp of regi-
ments of school children brought from near
and far; the sharp shouts of command from
their skirted sergeant-majors; and the almost
continuous explosions of peanut shells and
ginger-beer bombs in all parts of the house,
the poor old theatre must have fancied a
new war was on. Even professing dis-
believers in Shakspeare—if there are ant
(Continued on Page 5-}.)


?<
Sx
<+x
e pi
r
y
i
a
No. 99 SET. Contains the essentials
for a perfect “Valet” shave —the
razor, strop and blade in
leatherette-covered case. .
3/6
Of all dealers.
mM
<r <1
vJD
CD
E
Quality
Economy
Simplicity
“Valet” Blades outlast the blades of the non-stropping
variety of safety-razor because the original superline
edge is kept in the pink of condition by a simple
method of stropping.
The “Valet” Razor is the only Razor that strops its
blade without requiring a special machine. Nothing
to take to pieces. Nothing to unscrew. Simplicity
itself.
Quality of blade, simplicity of mechanism and
economy in practice are the underlying principles
which characterise the “Valet.”
BRITISH
MADE.
“"VALET"
Safety Razor
OF ALL
DEALERS.
The Auto Strop Safety Razor Co., Ltd.
197-207 City Road, London, England.
Managing Agents for Australia —
PHIPSON & COMPANY. LTD., 181 Clarence Street, Sydney.
Hillier’s
Chocolates
Packed in the famous Red Boxes and
mailed to you the day they are made.
Prices: 3/-, 5/6, 6/-,
10/-, 12/6, 20/- & 30/-
Post free to any address
in Australia.
Send for Catalogue, illustrated
■with Reproductions of our
Confectionery, in color.
«qjra.HßJb*U 1 1»
162-166 PITT STREET
BRANCHES:
CR. GEORGE 6° KING S'GREETS
CAS'TLEREAGH STREET ,
NEXT THEATRE ROYAL,
S YDNE V.
' 1 What a lovely
Gift!"
**>*"
H&-
t <, /- ' "
4 ■ ,
ii
WM
za-
. v :
’ ~ :- ’/ %«
* 2 **±&9*BB
§■, **:*qsM%
• Safa
||% $V "}%§#***"
x\
*/ X V N . c*
:: Sp
.•
■ c
r‘ A
•■•■■■• -
Are iiou U P in
oz 4k #
down in
the mouth
X\
£
'J?
Success is largely
matter of correct
nutrition
Start drinking Instant
Pos tn m to-morrow
morning. You’ll be de-
lighted with its flavour.
Your grocer has Instant
Vostum. Order a tin
to-day !
NO one knows better than the success-
ful man what dividends Nature
pays to those who keep her simple laws.
And no one knows better than the
unsuccessful what toll she takes from
those who break them.
The appetising flavour of Instant Pos-
tum has made it the best-liked health
drink in the world. Once you have
learned how good it is you will look for-
ward to it with anticipation every day.
And once it has become a regular part of
your health programme, take stock of your-
self and see how much better you feel.
Instant/Postum
Wholesale Agents: Lewis & Cully 316 Pitt Street, Sydney
hrougnour
00 SATISFYING SHAVES RAZOR
iUYTHIS RAZOR and share with thousands of others the
comfort that shave after shave of satin smooth-
.. Pair iu^^resentationCase
125/Post Free
Ar
ft)
S'
Gui.ranteed s •£'\ K * *-\ S?*./#
in order for two years
CRAIG &AITKEN.6S4 GEORGE ST. SYDNEY.
S


The Wonderful “Lock-Grip” Wire Strainer
o
§m\w
LOCK-GRIP P*TN9I6Kyi6 R.l.Du
Simple, Powerful, Rapid.
TIME, MONET AND ENERGY SAVED.
Here is a tool that absolutely eclipses anything
invented for the straining of fencing wires.
It saves hours on a job. Joins, tightens and
repairs with the utmost ease. Its enormous
concentrated power makes light of any fencing
work —the hardest tensile wire cannot slip
through the “Lock-Grip.”
Weighs only 41b., measures 14 inches. It can
be carried in your pocket, yet it will pull your
motor-car out of a bog.
Get one and test it—there’s no risk. Failure
or breakage impossible. Thousands sold —
everyone delighted.
Price 30/- each. Victorian postage, 1/0:
Interstate, 2/8 (plus exchange).
Obtainable everywhere, or write the Agents:—
S. COHEN, SONS & CO. PTY., LTD.,
Hardware Merchants,
202 Queen Street, MELBOURNE.
Agents wanted where not represented.
JJ BOSTOCKS
W/M
' POLISHES—PRESERVES—PREVENTS CRACKS
BOSTOCK’S Shoe Creams are made in all
principal shades, and especially noted for the
New Shade of Bois-de-Rose, Putty, Sunburn
and Oak.
Price 6<f. per tube. Obtainable Everywhere .
ACCURATE SHOOTING
with a
COLT .22 CAL. AUTOMATIC
PISTOL.
Perfectly balanced; flics 10 ordinary .21 Cal.
long-rifle rim-fire cartridges as fast as you can
pull the trigger for each shot. This model h
proved most useful to sportsmen requiring
handy weapon of highest quality
standard cartridge which is both
and easy to procure. Length of barrel 6i i c »
length overall 101 inches ; weiglit ounces
IDEAL FOR TARGET SHOOTING AND
SMALL GAME, £8 10s.
ACCIDENTAL DISCHARGE WITH
AUTOMATIC PISTOL IS ABSOLUT CIA
IMPOSSIBLE. „ , , ir:i;
CADET RIFLES, Cal. 297/230 Conveited Mih
tary Rifles, Martini Action, 000 yards iai. B >
oos.
Gun and Cartridge Makers,
318 Little Collins St.. Melbourne.
such —can’t deny that the immortal Bard,
under the astute Wilkie direction and despite
the weakness of the feminine cast, lias made
a do of it —and a very good do of it, too.
’Pile Princess is large, remote and difficult
to fill, even when such modish masterpieces
as “Mercenary Mary” are in residence, as
Hugh Ward found. Bo Culchaw is going
round in Melbourne with vine leaves in its
hair. The final production of the stout
serio-comedian was “A Midsummer Night's
Scream,” which packed phalanxes of young-
sters found far more to their liking than
an afternoon in the classroom with surds.
The rendering followed the usual hearty
Wilkie lines, the only important change
being the sex of Puck, who put a girdle
round the backcloth in 4U seconds in the per-
son of Dennis Barry.
❖# * *
An Ethiopian whose brightest possession
is the polish on his boots; a soubrette who
requires the assistance of a cane settee, two
chairs, a table, two palms and a blue drop
to sing flatly about wanting to go down
south, and an infant who extracts music
to match from an instrument resembling a
fly-catcher, are individuals at Melbourne
Bijou this week who, as far as this paper
is concerned, shall remain anonymous; but
the Fredo Boys, who perform respectable
gymnastic feats while playing grand opera
on fiddles, deserve to be named. And so do
Grace and Keats, if only for their courage
in resurrecting that ancient pastime of our
fathers, the Pierrot act. The chief pre-
occupation of the house further down the
street is Olsen and Johnson, who are in the
throes of farewell.
* * $
The Renee Kelly company concluded their
season at the Adelaide Royal on April 9,
after a week of “Brown Sugar.” Renee was
a vivacious chorus-girl, but no serio-comic.
On April 16, the J. C. Williamson people
open the Gilbert and Sullivan season with
“The Mikado.” “The Girl of the Golden
West,” at the Prince of Wales, with Hilda
Dorrington as the Girl and George Cross
as the Stranger, is supplying the correct
stage atmosphere of cursing, gambling and
shooting.
* * t- *
To appreciate “The Winning of Bar-
bara Worth,” at the York, it isn’t neces-
sary to have read the book; the stars are
Vilma Banky and Ronald Colman. “Taxi
Taxi,” featuring Marion Nixon and Edward
Horton, is the supporting film. At the Won-
dergraph Theatre patrons are introduced to
Canada’s Red Indians of 40 years ago in
“The Flaming Forest.” The accompanying
film, “Diplomacy,” by way of contrast,
features a stirring story of intrigue in diplo-
matic circles, with Blanche SAveet and Neil
Hamilton in the lead.
At the Grand Theatre “The Blue Eagle”
shows George O’Brien and William Russell
as sailors helping America to win the war
while they engage in a private struggle over
a girl.
“Lud”: The drama is evidently going to
the cats. James White, of London Daly’s
Theatre, affirms that “There are free fights
nightly behind the scenes between jealous
actresses.” He made the remark while
defending a claim brought against his man-
agement by an American actress who,
although getting £l3O a week, had been
taken out of the cast of the musical piece
“Yvonne” because, as she put it, her work
overshadowed that of the principal dame.
The case, in which the lady recovered sub-
stantial damages, was a prelude to a similar
action launched by Lizzie Pechy, who after
playing lead in “The Blue Alazurka” in its
provincial run was displaced by Gladys Mon-
crieff. There were plenty of jealous actresses
behind the scenes at Daly’s in the brave,
days of George Edwardes, but that suave
slioAvman never allowed matters to culminate
in hair-pulling.
“Mlif” : Two American visitors, anxious to
see an Australian picture, were so annoyed at
the deletion of “Greenhide” from the pro-
gramme, that they asked the picture-show
manager Avhat was Avrong with it. AVas it
the photography or the cast? “No,” said the
manager, “it’s got no story.” Apparently the
story of Australia does not appeal to at least
one Australian manager.
“A.G.M.” : “The King’s Henchman,” music
by Deems Taylor and libretto by Edna St.
Vincent Millay, is voted the best opera ever
written by Americans. The story is Anglo-
Saxon, and deals with the love-affairs of
various Saxon royalties. Old English melo-
dies are introduced with effect. Miss Millay
and Deems Taylor had 10 recalls after the first
act at the Metropolitan Opera House, N’York,
and there Avas a 20-minutes’ ovation after
the final curtain. The cast was almost en-
tirely American, with Lawrence Tibbett,
Florence Easton and EdAvards Johnson in the
leading roles; Tibbetts is the young Cali-
fornian who, taking a sick star’s place one
night last year, became a star himself before
the night was out.
Poverty
Point
“AfcDuff”: During the filming 'of some
typical Australian
scenery in a Mel-
bourne picture
show there boomed
the unmistakable
call of a mopoke.
It was repeated,
and seemed to be
part of the slioav ;
but some children
and their mother
bustled out. From
the entrance came
the cheerful voice
of Dad inquiring
“Didn’t yer hear
me first time?”
“ H a m f a t ”:
Arthur Bourchier
has started a tour
of South Africa
and will probably
come on to Aus-
tralia. One of his
plays is a drama-
tisation of R.S.L.'s
“Treasure Island” :
it gives Bourchier
a part in which as
a character actor
he revels. Bour-
cliier p roduce d
Arthur H. Adams’s
“Airs. Pretty and
the Premier” in
London; that, as
far as can be re-
called, is the only
London staging of
a play by an Aus-
talian who has not
expatriated himself
in his search for
dramatic success, if
the short ru n
which Bert Bailey
gave to “On Our
Selection” is ex-
cept e d. “Al rs.
Pretty,” after a
nine weeks’ tour of
the provinces, had
a month’s run,
during wartime, at
His Majesty’s. A German bomb arrived at
the theatre on the opening night.
“Klaw”: To settle it, Gladys Moncrieff
first appeared on any stage at 11. M. Theatre,
Sydney, on October 12, 1912, as a chorister
in “Dorothy.” On June 1, 1916, at 11. M.
Theatre, Jo’burg, Gladys played her first
part, Sombra in “The Arcadians.” Reg
Carey Avas her stage manager and “pro-
ducer” on both occasions. Hence he was
her discoverer.” Q.E.D.
“Adam Ant” : Why this eternal question-
ing of Nellie Stewart’s age? Art—even
dramatic art—is ageless. What if she be
90? —she is only 25 as Nell Gwynne. In Mel-
bourne recently the papers Avere positively
indecent with their oblique references to her
years. Melba and Marie Tempest had no such
impertinence to contend with. A woman is
as old as she looks, and when that woman
is an accomplished actress she may look any
age she pleases—and does.
“L.E.”: Harrison Owen, whose comedy
“The Happy Husband” will shortly be pro-
duced in London by Basil Dean, with Madge
Titlieradge as leading lady, deserves his good
fortune. He was one of the best critics ot
the theatre Melbourne has known. He was
a great “Poverty Pointer,” full of knowledge
and pugnacity, and revelled in a lively, good-
natured scrap. Owen was too busy a Jour-
nalist to write plays in Australia; but on
going to London lie took up the job seriously ;
and it is no surprise that with his freshness
of outlook and pungent wit lie should have
made a success of it.
“Santander” : On the recent, reappearance
of “Trelawney of the Wells” in New York,
several theatrical writers recalled the original
interpreter of Imogen Parrott in the play—
Australia’s own Hilda Spong. Daniel 4 roli-
inan, manager of the old Lyceum Theatre in
Ncav York, where most of Pinero’s plays were
first presented in America, considered that
Hilda Avas the most seductive Imogen he
had seen; and old actors heartily concurred.
Hilda returned to Australia m 1911 in
“Everywoman” and “Passers By.” She is
still living in New York, I believe, but 1
have not seen her name in Broadway
casts for a very long time.
“Knalpi”: On The Bulletin’s advice, I
went round to a show on the North Sydney
side to see the Australian picture “Green-
hide.” But it wasn’t shown. Thrown on the
screen came a notice, “As we do not think
‘Greenhide’ up co our standard ive have
decided to substitute ‘The Sap’ ” —and sub-
stituted it was. “The Sap” was a trashy
sort of thing about American soldiers and
alleged shell-holes, the hero returning his
medals because he did not think he had
won them! In the local manager’s opinion
“Greenhide” Avas not “up to” the standard
of that!
“Kelby”: “Locali’s” list of Australian
musical publications (B. 7/4/27) proves
very little. A list of publications refused
JUST WHAT THE GHOST WANTED.
ELSIE (to fellow member of touring go .): “Going to see the ‘Ghost
Train’ down at Melbourne, Joan?”
JOAN : "No, but I hope he does. On our last tour there were lots
of times he couldn’t even walk.”
here and published abroad, together with
another list of pieces performed by the
British Musical Association in Sydney and
rejected by local publishers, would be more
instructive. If “Locali” wants to see what
even our “pop” writers can do if given a
chance, let him investigate the big sales of
the recent “Sydney Song,” which, after all,
was advertised in only one paper.
“John’s Wood” (Bond.) : The appearance
at the Coliseum of Elizabeth Pechy, who
was displaced from “Blue Mazurka” in
favor of Gladys Moncrieff, has shown that
Lizzie is no dud, for the lady sings and
looks uncommonly well. It has also shown
that her command of English in stage
delivery is not so fluent as it might be; bur,
whatever managements may say, Londoners
don’t care a button whether they understand
the words or not so long as they are sung
by an attractive woman with an excellent
voice. Lizzie’s partner in the hastily
arranged scene was made up to bear a
strong resemblance to James White, the
managing director of Daly’s. She recalls
the Grace Palotta that Australia kuew 30
years ago, but her voice is heaps better.
“Caul Boy”: The question of cruelty to
stage animals (B. 24/8/’27) having been
broached, I should like to point out that
there is an unofficial S.P.C.A. which looks
after the matter pretty effectively. The last
man to allow a trainer to knock his stock-
in-trade about is the Australian sceno-
sliifter. About 10 years ago in a Melbourne
vaudeville house, one such tried reasoning
with the brutal owner of an animal-act, and
finding pacific measures useless broke the
petty tyrant's jaw.
“Blower” : The dress Nellie Stewart wears
in the last act of “Sweet Nell of Old Drury”
has a history. It is 150 years old, and
was worn by Mrs. Abington as Lady Teazle
in the first production of Sheridan’s "School
for Scandal” at Drury Laue in 1777.
“L.E.”: Tony’s attitude to women in
“They Knew What They Wanted” is true
to life. Italians differ vastly from Anglo-
Saxons in this matter. Tony Avasn’t rich
enough to marry till lie was getting old, for
he couldn’t bear the idea of his Avife having
to work, not from kindliness of heart, but
because work might coarsen her hands and
spoil her beauty. We regard woman as a
cobber avlio has to share good luck and bad;
but to the Italian she is an ornament, meant
to sprawl about the house and grow fat.
That is why there is no emancipation of
women in Italy. Rough old Tony has the
same opinion as Mussolini, Avho wittily
described woman as “life’s pleasant paren-
thesis.”
“Caul Boy”: The seers of Bourke-street
are discussing the riddle of Frederick Sylves-
ter’s “nephews,” uoav at the Tivoli. These
three infants can assume at will the steel-
like rigidity of adult gymnasts; and tin
answer to the riddle is that they are adults,
or nearly so, their respective ages being in
the neighborhood of IS, 19 and 21. They
come from a district in Slavonia where
mothers who give birth to children of normal
size regard themselves as the sports of a
malignant fate. Hundreds of years ago this
region provided dwarfs for European and even
Oriental courts; monstrosities Avere in those
days an important part of the retinue of
kings. The demand is still as great as ever.
Fourteen years ago a troupe of 20 was
brought to Australia, and every one of them
came from Slavonia; and there have been
others since.
“C. Ockney” : Somerset Maugham, probably
the most consistently successful of modern
dramatists, is—so he says—giving up the
stage. He proposes to finish one more play
and then devote himself to short-story
Avriting, “which is much better fun.” As he
must have made a lot of money at both
pursuits he can afford to indulge his whim,
llis two latest pieces are successful in
America and England respectively. “The
Constant Wife” is one of the season’s
notable hits in New York, with Ethel Barry-
more in the lead; and at London Playhouse
Gladys Cooper is the star of “The Letter."
The smartest and sauciest of Maugham's
comedies, “Our Betters,” was secured for
Australia a long time ago.
“Cut” : The U.S. movie industry is trying
hard to live up to its self-bestowed reputa-
tion as a great moral force. Though it still
exports films which have to be freely scis-
sored by the censors, it has drawn the line
at “Peaches” Browning, a young lady whose
favorite sport, as revealed in a lurid main-
tenance case against her millionaire hus-
band, was “undress poker.” As “undress
poker” consists in daring one’s adversary,
in mixed company, to go farther in discard-
ing clothing than oneself, it was expected
that “Peaches” would make a hit as a film
actress, and she was rushed with offers of con-
tracts. But Hayes, the Movie Czar, has
ukased that no “Peaches” film can be pro-
duced or shown in American cinemas, so
the poor child has had to fall back on a
£20,000 vaudeville engagement.
“Lytt.”: Passed aAvay in the middle of a
terrible snowstorm in Vienna, Ludwig
Beethoven, who was addicted to music from
his youth up. His father Avas addicted to
drink. LudAvig got a job in a theatre orches-
tra at 11 and did his best to support his
father, but the old man was infrequently sober.
When his parent died Beethoven, finding it
necessary to shepherd somebody, adopted a
nephew, and the lad reciprocated his affec-
tion by attempting to commit suicide. Lud-
Avig had no better luck with women, who
laughed when he waxed sentimental. At
26 the Fates also laughed and took awat
his hearing. So he lived with his memories
of sounds and made out of them fantastic
castles and forests in which other folk could
find delights that are not entirely of this
Avorld. To this very day it is possible for
a few to live in those castles and walk
through those forests and forget that lite is
a crude thing. In his day Ludwig was small
potatoes, but he kneAv his stuff was good,
though it wasn’t as good as he would hare
liked. If lie knows anything he knows no"
that he Avas great enough to be a target for
critics born a hundred years after he sa"
the light of day. There is no higher immor-
tality.
HIS PART.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“A score of times upon the stage
You must have seen me, I’ll engage,”
nemarked the actor-bloke.
And while the careless barmaid, bored —
His presence almost she ignored—
Two foaming mugs of nectar poured,
The mummer proudly spoke:
“Oft in my time I’ve been the cause
Of rousing cheers and loud annlause,
And Avon the critics’ praise;
And still I treasure memories
Of triumphs; but it is not these
That most my audiences please.
Come down to modern days!
“My face you do not recollect?
Aly make-up you may not detect....
You know me now, of course?
Well, you may see me in my prime-;
I have a part that is sublime •
For I am in the pantomime
The hind-legs of the horse!”
N.s.w.
A. H. A.


Shipping.
Go North to Balmy Weather!
HAWAII.
Complete change in a paradise with average
temperature 75deg. Golfing, motoring, out-
rigger canoeing, surf-board riding, new fruits,
flowers, sun-kissed beaches; lunar rainbows
gleaming through cocoanut palms. Inter-island
cruises along mystic, tropical shores; steaming
volcanoes. Total cost of 6—B weeks round-
trip, with 3 or 4 weeks in Hawaii and a day in
Suva or Pago Pago, about £lOO to £l5O. Free
stop-over privileges, en route to America or
Europe. All modern conveniences, good hotels,
12/- to £3 per day. Ask nearest steamship or
travel agent, or write Hawaii Tourist Bureau,
Dept. 26, Box 241-D G.P.0., Sydney, N.S.W.,
enclosing this advertisement.
Quaint Oriental Touches.
HAWAII.
Banking, Public Companies, etc.
The Australian Bank ot Commerce Limited
Authorised Capital .. .. .. £5,000,000
Capital Paid Up and Reserves .. .. £2,G55,303
Aggregate Assets at 30th June, 1920 ..£16,789,590
liirectors: Sir Mark Sheldon, K.8.E., Chairman;
Frank N. Yauwood ; Duncan Carson ; H. It.
Lysaght, 0.8. E. ; George J. Sly, LL.D.; Lieut.-
Col. T. L. F. Rutledge.
General Manager: C. M. C. Shannon.
Chief Inspector for K.S.W.: W. G. Hull.
JIKAI) OFEJCE, SYDNEY (Corner George and King
Streets).
Branches and Receiving Offices at 151 places in
New South Wales.
BRISBANE (264 Queen Street).
. Chief Inspector for Queensland: L. Aveyabd.
Manager: G. H. Howell.
Branches and Receiving Offices at 27 places in
Queensland.
MELBOURNE (325 Collins Street).
Manager: M. B. Finney.
ADELAIDE (35 Rundle Street).
Manager: R. T. Moodie.
PERTH, W.A. (73 St. George’s Terrace).
Manager; A. C. Diiidin.
LONDON (37 Threadnecdle Street, E.C.2).
Manager: A. F. Jenkins.
London Directors ;
A. Donns Fairrairn, Alfred Sheimierd.
Agents throughout Australia. Tasmania and New
Zealand, and at all the Chief Cities of the AVorld.
Every description of Banking Business Transacted.
Bank of New Zealand.
SYDNEY BRANCH:
Corner GEORGE and WYNYARD
STREETS.
Guaranteed Stock.. .. .. £5201,988
Preference Shares .. .. .. 1,875,000
Ordinary Shares .. .. .. 3.750,000
Reserve Fund and Undivided Profits 3.390,378
on Australia, New Zea-
land, Fiji, Samoa,
Great Britain and Ireland, and other places.
at Interest for
fixed periods, and
transacts all other usual Banking business.
GRANTS DRAFTS
Great Britain and Ireland, a
RECEIVES DEPOSITS
The Bank of Adelaide
(Incorporated 1865.)
PERTH OFFICE: ST. GEORGE’S TERRACE.
Also FREMANTLE, W.A.
tfELBOURNE OFFICE: 267 COLLINS STREET.
SYDNEY OFFICE: 279 GEORGE STREET.
Authorised Capital . . .. .. £2,000,000
Subscribed Capital, increased to .. 1,000,000
Paid Up Capital, „ „ ..£1,000,000
Reserve Fund, „ „ .. 850,000
£1,850,000
Reserve liability of shareholders,
increased to .. .. .. 1,000,000
£2,850,000
Head Office: ADELAIDE, SOUTH AUSTRALIA.
Also 114 Branches and Agencies in South Australia.
London Office: 11 LEADENHALL STREET, E.C.
Agencies in all Australian States and throughout
the world.
Drafts and Letters of Credit issued on London, America
and elsewhere. Bills from abroad collected and pro-
ceeds remitted. All usual banking business transacted.
Australian Mutual
Established
J 849.
87 Pitt St., Sydney Provident Society
The Largest ami Most Successful
Mutual Life Office in the British Empire,
Distributes a Cash Bonus Every Year.
Amount Distributed for single year 1925 £2,428,000
fielding Reversionary Additions to
Policies of over .. .. .. £4,150.000
Accumulated Funds .. .. .. £60,000,000
Annual Income nearly .. .. .. £9,000,000
The Society transacts Every Class of Ordinary
and Industrial Assurance Business.
H. W. APPERLY, F.S.S., General Manager.
RUPTURE.
A FREE TRIAL.
If you are troubled with the complaint, write us and
We will send you our catalogue, fully describing our
PATENT AIR CUSHION APPLIANCE.
This appliance does away with all cumbersome
springs, giving a feeling of ease and comfort from the
first day’s use. It is the most scientific appliance yet
invented for this complaint. It will hold a rupture
firmly and comfortably under all conditions.
To prove what we state
WE OFFER TO SEND IT TO YOU
ON A FREE TRIAL.
If it it not satisfactory we do not expect you to keep
It. and the trial costs you nothing. It is suitable for
men, women and children, and the price is within
the reach of all.
ILLUSTRATED CATALOGUE
posted free anywhere.
THE WINSLOW CO.
104 Queen Street, Melbourne, Vic,
“The Woman’s Mirror”
Published every Tuesday
PRICE 3d.
It deals with every subject of
interest to women.
Shipping, etc.
CANADA, UNITED STATES.
UNITED KINGDOM
FORTNIGHTLY SAILINGS FROM SYDNEY.
CANADIAN-AUSTRALASIAN ROYAL MAIL LINE
via Auckland, Suva (Fiji), Honolulu, Victoria and Vancouver.
UNION ROYAL MAIL LINE
Via Wellington, Rarotonga, Tahiti and San Francisco.
MAKURA 8,075 tons,
AORANGI 17,490 „
TAHITI 7,900 „
MAUNGANUI . 7,527 „
APRIL 21, for San Francisco.
iVPAY 5, for Vancouver.
MAY 19, for San Francisco.
.JUNE 2, for Vancouver.
Fast and splen-
didly equipped
steamers using
oil fuel.
Spacious Decks,
Unrivalled
Cuisine.
.
nm
W* _ fC-ii
Th e Scenic
Routes to the
United King-
dom, via South
Sea Islands,
Canada, United
States.
TICKETS TO THE UNITED KINGDOM INTERCHANGEABLE FOR RETURN
IIV OTHER LINES.
HONOLULU EXCURSIONS COMMENCE JUNE 2.
UNION STKAM SHU’ CO.
/liiiion House, 247 George Street, Sydney.
\ William Street, Melbourne.
MACDONALD, HAMILTON & CO., Brisbane, Adelaide and Perth.
SOUTH SEA TOURS
Attractive Island Trips, occupying about Wcelcs.
SIX-WEEKLY SAILINGS FROM SYDNEY TO
W/)«r Britain ■ S.S. MONTORO (5000 tons)
IiCVT U 1 £1(11 II i Sails May 10 and June 21.
Sninmnn Id/tAiit l s.s. MATARAM’ (3500 tons)
ooiomon islands. SaUs April 27 an d j une s.
A Delightful Holiday in Island Wonderlands.
For Particulars apply—
BURNS, PHILP & CO., LTD.,
Sydney, Melbourne, Adelaide and Brisbane.
US*
<y v
St
m
BURNS, PHILP & CO., LTD.,
Passenger Booking Agents for All Steamship Lines
ENGLAND
EUROPE
AMERICA
CANADA
AFRICA
INDIA
JAPAN
CHINA
JAVA, etc.
At regular passage rates. No extra charge.
Attractive tour to
NOUMEA, JAVA, HONOLULU, COLOMBO, etc.
VISIT JAVA (The wonderland of the East).
Regular monthly sailings of the s.s. “Marella” ami
m.s. “Malabar” to Java and Singapore via Queensland
ports, Thursday Island, Darwin, etc. Smooth water trip
Deck Cabins, interesting ports of call.
APPLY
BURNS, PHILP & COMPANY, LIMITED,
WOULD TOUR and TRAVEL DEPARTMENT,
7 BRIDGE STREET, SYDNEY.
BANK OF NEW SOUTH WALES.
Established 1817.
Paid-up Capital
Reserve Fund
Reserve Pliability
m
£6,000,000
4,750,000
6,000,000
£16,750,000
Directors:
Thomas Buckland, ?sq., President.
The Hon Reginald J. Black, M.L.C.
Charles Binnie, Esq.
James Burns, Esq.
Robert L. Faithfull, Esq.,
Robert W. Gillespie, Esq.
Franc B. S. Falkiner, Esq.
M.D.
Auditors: W. H. Palmer, Esq.; S. E. Laidlev, Esq. General Manager: OSCAR LINES.
Head Office —George Street, Sydney. London Office—29 Threadnecdle Street, E.C. 2.
431 Branches and Agencies in the Australian States, New Zealand, Fiji, Papua, Mandated
Territory of New Guinea and London. Agents and Correspondents throughout the world.
Cable remittances made to, and drafts drawn on Foreign places DIRECT. Foreign Bills
negotiated and collected, Letters of Credit Issued, negotiable throughout the world.
The Commercial Banking Company
of Sydney Limited
ESTABLISHED 1834.
CAPITAL PAID UP £3,500,000 0 0
RESERVE FUND 3,000,000 0 0
RESERVE CAPITAL 3,500,000 0 0
£10,000,000 0 0
Directors .*
GEORGE J. COHEN, Chairman; Hon. SIR THOMAS HUGHES, M.L.C., Deputy
Chairman: Hon. JAMES ASHTON, M.L.C.; Major-General the Hon J W
MACARTHUR ONSLOW, V.D., M.L.C.; Sir WILLIAM VICARS, K. 8., c'.B.R
General Manager: J. R. DRYHURST.
HEAD OFFICE: Sydney, 343 George Street.
London Office.—lB Birchin Lane, Lombard Street, E.C.3.
Branches throughout New South Wales and Queensland. Agencies
throughout Australia and New Zealand, and all other parts of the World.
All Classes of General Banking and Exchange Business Transacted.
SAFE DEPOSIT VAULTS.—lnspection invited. Particulars of
Safe Rentals on application.
Shipping, etc.
Inter-State Steamship
Sailings,
(Passenger Sailings—Circumstances permitting.)
FOR MELBOURNE, ADELAIDE and FREMANTLE
(Transhipping at Melbourne for Geelong and other
Victorian ports; at Adelaide for S.A. Gulf ports;
and at Fremantle for Perth, Bunbury, Geraldton
and North-West Ports).
FOR QUEENSLAND PORTS
(Transhipping at Brisbane for Maryborough, Bunda-
berg, and Gladstone, and at Townsville for outports).
‘Brisbane, Maekay (no cargo for Mackay), Townsville
and Cairns.
Hudd&rt ParkerLisi
Magnificent
Fast Passenger
Steani3hi;i i
STEAM HRS TO NEW ZEALAND—ReguIar sailing*
from Sydney to New Zealand ports and vice versa.
Particulars to be obtained on application.
STEAMERS TO TASMANIA —Erom Sydney to Hobart
and vice versa as per daily papers. Retween Mel-
bourne and Launceston as per daily papers,
l-.'or full particulars apply HUDDART PARKER LIMIT 39,
Codins Street, Melbourne; Bridge Street, Sydney.
Interstate Telegraphic address: Cable address:
“NALDHAM.” “NALDHAM.’
Macdonald, Hamilton 8 Co.
247 George Street, Sydney.
Shipping Agents, Merchants, Colliery
Proprietors, Tug and Lighter Owners.
MANAGING AGENTS FOR
Australasian United Steam Navigation Co., Ltd.
X'itzroy Estates, Ltd.
lllackheath Collieries, Ltd., and Caledonian
Collieries, Ltd.
Eastern & Australian Steamship Co., Ltd.
AGENTS FOR
L>ritish-India S. N. Co., Ltd. P. & 0. S. N. Co.
Queensland line of Steamers. Scottish Shire Line
(Turnbull, Martin & Co.). New Zealand Shipping Co.,
Ltd. Canadian-Australasian Royal Mail Line, San
Francisco Service (Union S.S. Co.), Union S.S. Co.
of New Zealand, Ltd. Hain Line. Iluddart Parker,
I.td. London Assurance Corporation (Marine). Mel-
bourne Agents for Message lies Maritimes Co. Queens-
land Agents for Sea Insurance Co., Ltd.
BRANCHES at Perth, Fremantle, Adelaide, Port
Adelaide, Melbourne, Suva (Fiji), Brisbane, Mary-
borough, Bundaberg and Bowen.
ALL AUSTRALIANS visiting London
should read the British Australian
and New Zealander, Gd. weekly—an illus-
trated paper containing mail and cable news
from Australia and news of Australians in
Europe and at home. Australians are cordi-
ally invited to visit the British Australian
and New Zealander Reading-room at the
Offices, 414-17 Australia House, Strand,
London, WC.2, where they can see the home
papers, meet their friends, use the telephone
and obtain information without charge.
Copies of the paper and general information
can be obtained at the Australian Advertis-
ing Agency. Ltd.. 350 George Street, Sydney;
or 434 Collins Street. Melbourne.
For your
Summer Vacation
HOTEL
KOSCIUSKO
(Altitude 5000 ft.)
Trout Fishing - - Golf,
Tennis and Croquet.
Motoring on excellent roads.
Petrol for sale and garage
accommodation available.
Tariff:
From £5/5/- per week.
£1 per day.
July and August excepted.
Bookings and Further Particulars at —
N.S.W. Government
TOURIST BUREAU
Challis House, 8 Martin Place,
Sydney.


QN
THE QUEENSLAND NATIONAL BANK, LIMITED.
Incorporated under the Companies Act 1863. Established 1872.
Directors —A. C. I.uya, Esq., Chairman; James Love, Esq. ; W. H. Hart, Esq. ;
M. j. Evan, Esq. ; D. W. Macdonald, Esq.
General Manager— M. ,G. HAYMEN.
HEAD OFFICE BRISBANE
With offices at London. Canberra (Federal Territory), Melbourne, Sydney, and
95 branches in Queensland and Northern Rivers, N. S. Wales, also representation
through the leading Banking Institutions covering Australasia and the \\ odd, < tins
Bank offers the fullest facilities for the transaction of' all general banking business.
Ericsson Telephone Mfg. Co.
(Formerly James Paton & Co.)
Sole Importers of the Famous Ericsson Telephone and Switchboard
Apparatus, for Magneto, Common Battery and Automatic Working.
WIRELESS APPARATUS,
19 YORK STREET, SYDNEY; 509 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE.
Parrot
Brand
w.
L-^
Eucalyptus Oil
Some things come about by
accident, but Bosisto’s Oil is
not one of them.
This precious curative balm
is the reward of patience, per-
severance, and untiring research
on the part of that distinguished
chemist and scientist, the late
Mr. J. Bosisto.
Extracted from true medicinal
species of the Eucalypt, refined
with exacting care, its purity
attested by trained analysts,
Bosisto’s oil has proved a
genuine specific for human ail-
ments—pure, healing, curative,
germicidal.
msm
IIOFEUCAIIfPii
111 •» ;
!JUii
We recommend Bosisto’s “Parrot” Brand
Eucalyptus Oil with a confidence born of
the knowledge of its remarkable efficacy in
the sick room, and its power to destroy the
germs of deadly diseases.
TRY IT FOR—
Coughs
Colds
Bronchitis
Sore Throat
Whooping Cough
Influenza
Rheumatism
Wounds & Cuts
Burns & Scalds
1/3 per bottle is the price.
From the Laboratories of J. BOSISTO & CO. PTY. LTD.. Richmond. Victoria.
X
0
c
ii
e
) •
ry
tZ..;
SVS»
__ Wwlttfum&SlMimnf
ft|S|j vaTuMn
5®
/
SHA VEX is an inspiration
of reason and thought,
and is a production of
modern civilisation whereby
men can now shave without using
soap. No more rubbing with a brush
for five to ten minutes, bringing all
the blood to the surface, and drying up
all the natural oil in the skin. With
Shavex no brush or soap is used. You
smear Shavex from a tube on to your
face, then shave. No after lotions are
required. Shavex is a skin food. You
shave in half the time, and ge : a closer
and more perfect shave. Your skin will
feel like satin, and your face will look
twice as young. Shavex is obtainable
everywhere.
''THE MODERN WAY” NO BRUSH,
NO SOAP, NO PAIN
Larg2 Tuba 1/9 Larger Size
(Double Quantity/ 2/6
FREE SAMPLE—A Free Sample on
receipt of 3d. stamp from
Sole Australian Agents :
SALMOND & SPRAGGON (Aust.), Ltd.
(Dept. 41- Eagle and Globe Buildings, 319
, Kent Street, SYDNEY
Visitors to Brisbane! Book up at the
HOTEL CECIL
(FIRST CLASS)
Reasonable Tariff—Good Position.
Ŕ
Keep Fit
with Sanatogen
"Nothing ever does me so much good
when I’m run-down as Sanatogen. It
has set me up, and kept me up, again
and again,” writes Dame Sarah Grand,
Mayoress of Bath.
Sanatogen acts in a sure and
quick way. It infuses into
the cells of body and nerves
exactly those elements —-
phosphorus and albumin—
from which new strength
is derived.
The True Tonic-Food
Obtainable at all Chemists from 3/9 per tin.
Made by GENATOSAN LIMITED, LOUGHBOROUGH, ENGLAND.
of Australasia Limited.
Capital Paid up£4.000,000
Total Assets 1916 EMZIIIZ
1926
All classes of banking business conducted at
305 branches and 170 agencies In Australia
The Bank provides a complete service to its
customers and connections. This includes
Current Accounts, Fixed Deposits, Overdrafts,
Discounts, Collections, Drafts payable in Aus-
tralia or abroad, Tiavellers’ and Merchants
Letters of Credit, Telegraphic Transfers.
ARRANGEMENTS FOR CONDUCTING
Foreign Banking Business
have been greatly extended and a world-wide
service is available through the Bank’s offices
in London and Agents in every important city.
£ -40.706.017


A Famous Actor, Mr. Leon Gordon,
II
m
m
Praises
a Famous
Shaving Soap-
REXONA
Mr. LEON GORDON, the Famous
Actor, who appeared in the famous
play of the tropics, “White Cargo,”
uses only Rexona Slaving Soap,
and writes us as follows : — “Hav-
ing used Rexona Shaving Soap for
some period, I have no hesitation
in stating that it is the most ex-
cellent Shaving Soap for a quick
and smooth shave.”
Men! Here's the Shaving
Soap for You: Rexona—
The New Triangular Stick
Rexona Shaving Soap makes for comfort and
hygiene in shaving and tempers the skin against wind
and bad weather. It produces a thick, creamy lather
which softens the beard and makes shaving a pleasure.
Rexona Shaving Soap is sold in pure aluminium
containers which are strong, light and durable and will
not rust, and which keep the shaving soap in perfect
condition.
Rexona Shaving Soap—
The New Triangular Stick
1/6
9
FOUR O/H VALVES
RUDCi-WHITWORTH PATENT
PROPORTIONAL COUPLED BRAKES
FOUR SPEEDS
INTERCHANGEABLE WHEELS
The new 4.99 h.p. Rudge Four has got improvements
that no other motor cycle has got —try the new brakes
on a really bad road. „
. There’s the “ Standard” model, the 80 m.p.h. cc Sports
model, and the luxurious tc Special ” model fitted with
the following additional refinements —superior finish,
Tecalemit lubrication, soft-top saddle, shock absorbers,
steering damper and straight twin exhaust pipes.
FACTORY REPRESENTATIVE: JAMES THORNELL, 3 12 PITT STSYDNEY, N.S .W.
Full pa.ticulars of all models may be
obtained from — Sydney : B.'den and
Roberts, 150 Hay St. Melbourne :
Rogers Eros.Pty.Ltd., 305 Swanston
St. Brisbane : Canada Cycle and
Motor Agency (Q’land) Ltd., Creek
St. Adelaide: Behrens Thiem Co.,
3 Devon House, Che,sser St. Perth:
Flower, Davies and Johnson, 404
Murray St. Tasmania. Hobart: J.
Bilyard, 110 Elizabeth St. Launces-
ton : Carl Mantach, 110 Charles St.
R
■?F OU^
Rudge-Whitworth Ltd., Coventry, England
CHRISTOPHER JOHNSON & CO.,
FLAG BRAND CUTLERY.
Sheffield,
England.
V r-
No. 1569.
Registered Trade-mark.
BRITISH
SCISSORS of
HIGH QUALITY.
SOLID STEEL. A LIFETIME’S WEAR.
Representatives:
NORMAN BAKER & LONGHURST, LTD.,
Sydney, Melbourne, and Wellington, N.Z.
The Clinging Land.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
/'■'lO take your mattock in your brawny
I _ hands!
V~» (jo swing your silver axe—the way
is free!
Look how the sun lights all the Malice lands,
The rich, black slopes along the southern
sea!
Where dreams the richest pasture, none may
know;
But every man shall reap what he shall sow!
From out the broken earth, the fruitful soil,
There thrusts a splendid form, untram-
melled now—
Man vowed unto the service of the land,
The mark of clods upon his sweating brow,
His tread is firm and joyous. ’Neath his hand,
Bitten with age-old toil,
There lies a plough.
Earth harsh and terrible ! Unyielding earth !
Mother and mistress, too —the strong and
sweet!
Man —conqueror he, yet prisoned at her
feet ;
Prisoned in that dark soil that gave him
birth!
{The Riverina plains are white with sheep.
Campaspc flats arc like a golden sea.
lou dare not rest until your acres sweep,
By road and rise, to blue infinity!
The clinging land will never let you go,
And every man shall reap what he shall
sow !)
Her voice is in his ears. He hears the sound
Of chiming creeks, of birds that singing
pass,
The rustling wind among the ripened corn,
The timid hare that stirs the tufted grass,
And restless cattle lowing in the morn
When frost is on the ground
Like powdered glass.
The rasp of axe and saw is in his ears,
The rhythmic beat of silver whirling blades,
The thresher whistling when the long day
fades,
And little crying lambs—all these he hears!
Charmed is her touch. She gives for recom-
pense
Sweet dreams, the while he hears the moan-
ing song
Of wind a-down the chimney wintry eves.
He sits and stares and dreams the whole
night long
Of scattered flocks that lie like drifted leaves,
Where past each white-railed fence
The feed grows strong;
Of shadowy wheat that turns in wavering
golds,
Like waters rippling to the world’s lost
rim,
And, far away where smoky spires are dim,
He sees grey ships go out with bursting holds.
And sometimes death is stalking at his side,
Picking the shambles of the bald, brown
plain
Where pitiless drought has swooped. And oft
he sees
The black skies part, and, big with heavy
rain,
The tawny rivers wrench the rooted trees —
A flooding, ruthless tide.
Time and again
He feels upon his face the fiery breath
Of summer forests, when the winds of doom
tan into being scarlet whorls of bloom,
And leave an ashen harvesting of death.
(Oh, carry on! The earth is in your blood!
Lear after year the Spring’s new healing
comes !
Bee now , the bursting maize by Snowy’s
flood,
The tender green around the Gippsland
gums !
Lhe seed, the shoot, the flower—they come
and go,
And every man shall reap what he shall sow!)
The soil has crossed his forehead ! Cursed
and blest
I s he who wears upon his wrist the gyves
that bind him fast to earth with hopes and
fears!
And triumphing eternally he strives,
And loves her none the less when his hot
tears
Furrow her meagre breast;
Nor heeds those lives
Of others that have loved her too and gone
Those haggard ghosts of beaten men who
sleep
By desert ridge and lonely bush and steep;
«ut, recking not, lie goes undaunted on !
( Blow on him, wind! Shine on his head, O
sun!
Made beautiful by toil his obscure span!
imtgh soil, brute man—together they are
one.
Resurgent he, the conqueror is Man!
ine clinging earth will never let him go
Mid every man shall reap what he shall
sow !)
VICTORIA.
MYRA MORRIS.
The Fair Thing.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
THE defendant was a white man; there-
fore he was accommodated with a
chair. The complainant was a native;
therefore Sergeant Kahui commanded him
m a hoarse whisper to stand up and refrain
from leaning against the door-jamb. Never-
theless the defendant would have preferred
to stand also, until Kahui, recognising the
signs and saveeing the limitations of spilt-
hslll floors, thoughtfully placed a thick
volume of the “Papuan Laws and Ord-
inances” under each chair-leg. The de-
fendant grunted his thanks, rammed his
helmet firmly on the back of his head,
lighted a cigarette and planted his feet on
the table—which also served as the bench.
The magistrate donned a white drill coat
and seated himself at the table.
“Fortunately. I am not often called upon
to adjudicate between Europeans and the
natives, Blaydon,” he remarked, “so I’ll—
er—give you Port Moresby trimmings.”
“Thanks so much!” murmured the other
sarcastically.
“Sergeant!” called the magistrate.
“Yessah!” Sergeant Kahui stiffened to
attention and saluted.
“Declare the Court open, Sergeant.”
Kahui turned on his heel, stumped out
on to the verandah and bellowed: “Court
Petee Session now-e hopen!” His voice rever-
berated through the jungle; a flock of
white cockatoos wheeled above the tree-
tops and flapped away, squawking discord-
antly, and they heard the rhythmic “thrum-
thrum” of a hornbill’s wings somewhere in
the distance.
“Suffering cats!” ejaculated Blaydon.
Except for themselves the station guard
and a few prisoners, there was not a human
being—white, brown or brindled—within
miles!
The magistrate slipped a sheet of fools-
cap into a rusty typewriter and turned to
Blaydon.
“Take off your hat,” he said crisply.
“Douse that cigarette and be good enough
to remove your feet from the bench.”
Blaydon grinned cheerfully as if sensing
a subtle joke, but something in the magis-
trate’s eyes sobered him and he colored in
embarrassment.
“Beg pardon, y’Worship,” he muttered as
obeyed the magistrate’s behest.
The case opened. Gaduari, the com-
plainant, said he was the white man’s cook-
boy. Mis’ Blaydon was a good taubada
(master) save that “all time he talk, talk,
talk ’long boy, all same cockatoo.” One
day Mis’ Blaydon ordered him, Gaduari,. to
get something to open something. He got
something from the store, whereupon Mis’
Blaydon said very bad words and kicked
him two-three times on the stern-post.
Therefore, because he had done no wrong,
he had come to make court ’long Govern-
ment.
Three diminutive savages in white loin-
cloths—offsiders to the cook—gave corro-
borative evidence in frightened whispers.
Blaydon, in defence, expressed the opinion
that Gaduari was a lazy, loafing, useless
swine. Moreover, he was thickheaded. On
the day of the assault, he, Blaydon, went
home, feeling a little off-color. He ordered
Gaduari to bring the key of the medicine-
chest. He spoke loudly and distinctly, using
words that any intelligent native would
readily understand. He said, “Bring’m tin-
opener b’long small-fella bokkis.” And the
silly ass brought a crow-bar! He, Blaydon,
submitted that his subsequent actions were
amply justified. He may have spoken
crossly to the boy. He may even have
booted Gaduari once or twice for the good
of his soul. His Worship understood, of
course, that one had to deal firmly with
niggers—especially stupid niggers. One had
to insist on prompt obedience and intelli-
gent service. One had to
At. this stage the magistrate stopped the
case by imposing a fine of one pound, with
three and sixpence costs of court. He made
a sign to Sergeant Kahui, who again stepped
on to the verandah and announced in a
loud voice: “Court Petee Sessin now-e
close!”
The magistrate took off his coat with a
grunt of relief, and unbuttoned his collar.
He handed a tin of cigarettes to Blaydon.
“Have a smoke,” he invited. “The trouble
with you, Blaydon,” he went on, “is that
you can’t handle natives.”
Blaydon choked. “Spare me days, R.M.,”
he ejaculated. “Of all the”- '
“Fact,” interrupted the magistrate. “And
I’d advise you, as a friend, to take a pull.
That is, unless you’re hankering after a
free ticket to the nearest Queensland port.”
“Talk’s cheap, R.M.!” sneered Blaydon
with some heat. “You, and the likes of
you, with a squad of armed police and the
resources of the Government behind you. to
preach to me about handling niggers! Get
out amongst ’em, and battle for a crust, and
you’d savee the difference, quick and
lively!”
The magistrate smiled. “My lad,” he said
gently, “I was gouging a living out of New
Guinea—mining, trading and so forth—
when you were running about in short
pants.”
“You had the sense to get in out of the
wet,” retorted Blaydon, a note of impatience
in his voice. “Anyhow, things were different
m the old days. A white man was a white
man, and a nigger was a nigger. Now—
bah! this Brown Brother business gives me
a pain!”
The magistrate was plainly amused. He
settled back in his chair and a little smile
played about the corners of his mouth.
“Better lunch with me, young man,” he
said, “and while we’re waiting for the gong
I’ll tell you about one of the old hands
who was an expert in the art of—er—what
did you call it?—er—yes—handling niggers.”
Blaydon shrugged his shoulders. It was
obvious that he was still feeling aggrieved.
“If it’s any missionary twaddle,” he
began.
The magistrate waved a deprecating hand.
“Nugget Smith was no missionary,” he said
grimly. He paused, frowning slightly. “By
Jove! he was, though; but he didn’t know
it.”
(Continued on next page.)


'TO USE THIS SOM
'THE FACE AND RUB will
'“EShaving Stick-
'EKup a lather ontki
»H,USING plenty /
(Q
V-/"
I’WHEN
annuo
nil
\b
iiMiu7
n
1
New Reduced Prices:
Holder Top Shaving Stick 2/-
Reloads 3/tS
Williams Shaving Cream . . 2/-
Brighten to-morrow’s shave
—by using Williams Shaving Stick
Williams Holder Top Shaving Stick gives a rich, thick lather
that bulks large on the face. Its wetness penetrates the
oil film on the beard so that almost instant softening takes
place. Its mild quality leaves the skin, at the end of the
shave, feeling wonderfully softened and soothed.
You will see a decided improvement the first time you shave
with Williams. It is made by shaving-soap specialists. No
wonder it gives a better shave. Buy a stick to-day.
Williams sticks are unusually long lasting and therefore
economical. Men who prefer shaving cream, be sure to
ask for Williams.
Williams
Holder Top Shaving Stick
Distributors: FRAZER & BEST LIMITED,
Brisbane, Sydney, Melbourne, Adelaide, Perth.
Peapes 5 “Warrego”
Riding Trousers
14/6 pair; 3 pairs for 39/6
m
Xjf/ 1 V^
MLV j
V
K
STRONGLY made and
double-sewn, of
durable, thoroughly
shrunk Brown Gabidrille
—a most serviceable ma-
terial.
Cut to the popular
" Stockman” pattern,
with belt loops and cross
and hip pockets.
Peapes 5 “ Warrego ” Rid-
ing Trousers wash easily
and well, although their
colour has been specially
selected because it does
not soil readily.
PEAPES PAY POSTAGE
Please state tuaist and inside
leg measurements.
PEAPES & CO., LTD-
MEN’S AND BOYS’ OUTFITTERS
Cjeorge Street, (opp. Hunter
Street), Sydney.
W 1
“The first time I met Nuggetwent on
the magistrate, “I was a cub-assistant at
Bonari, when that salubrious spot was a
kind of jumping-off place for the Garai
goldfield. I didn’t take kindly to Nugget.
In fact, I disliked him very intensely indeed.
He was a sawn-off, skimpy little chap, with
a straggling sandy moustache and a pair
of wicked little gimlet eyes. He walked
with a funny little strut—elbows out and
chin up—for all the world like a game
rooster. For an offsider he had a barbarian
from one of the upper Musa villages—an
unspoiled bushman of superb physique he
called Dogwatch.
“They drifted in late one afternoon, both
carrying swags, and both bone-weary. There
was a dead-house attached to the stere on
the beach, and, of course, the usual crowd
of genuine diggers and camp scum. Nugget
decided to camp at the rest-house, which
was close to my quarters. They dumped
their swags on the front verandah, and
Nugget turned to the boy.
“ ‘Get me a bath,’ he growled.
“The boy gaped, then laughed loudly.
‘Bart,’ he said. ‘Where bart he stop, hey?’
“Nugget merely hunched his shoulders,
and his fist crashed on the native’s jaw,
sending him sprawling. I had never seen
anything quite so raw, and I was over the
verandah-rail like a shot.
“ ‘That’ll be enough from you, Smith.’ 1
turned to the native, who had picked him-
self up, fingering his jaw gingerly. ‘You
want to make court, my boy?’ I asked.
“Dogwatch stared at me blankly. ‘Court,
taubada!’ he replied. ‘Whaffor court?’ and
I saw him glance at the white man with an
expression I thought was fear.
“ ‘You no fright, my boy,’ I exclaimed.
‘S’pose you make court ’long this white
man, the Government will look out good
’long you. White man he can’t fight
’long boy.’
“Dogwatch spat over the edge of the
verandah. ‘This Nugget no fight ’long
me, taubada,’ he replied earnestly. ‘You no
see I bin fall down, tha’s all?’ Nugget was
nursing his skinned knuckles, smiling mock-
ingly. I was feeling wild.
“‘You little beast!’ I snorted. ‘I sup-
pose you fell down, too!’
“ ‘No, taubada,’ interposed Dogwatch. ‘This
Nugget bin hurt’m hand ’long nadi (stone),
tha’s all.’ Nugget said nothing.
“That was my first experience with
Nugget, and I decided that he was the type
of blackguard this country could well do
without. It was obvious to me that the
native was in a blue funk—simply terrorised
by a beastly little waster he could smash
with one hand. And the Government help-
less!
“The next morning I was at the store
making some purchases when Nugget
strolled in, the massive Dogwatch at his
heels. There was a big Swede lolling over
the counter—normally a good-natured, in-
offensive kind of chap, but now just drunk
enough to be nasty. Dogwatch, quite inno-
cently, stumbled against him, and the Swede
turned with a bellow of rage. Dogwatch
just exposed his white teeth in a disarm-
ing grin, and the Swede kicked him—
brutally, savagely.
“Nugget’s face went white with passion.
I saw his two fists working like pistons. I
saw an expression of foolish surprise on
the Swede’s fat face—an expression that
turned to bewilderment, and then to stark
fear. He made some sort of a show, egged
on by the rest of us, but in three minutes
he was lying fiat on his back in a quivering,
whimpering heap. Nugget beckoned to the
native, and they left the store.
“ ‘That’ll learn yer,’ he snarled. ‘Put the
boot into my nigger, would yer? ’Ad
enough?’
“ ‘Yass, Noogett,’ mumbled the Swede.
‘Yass, Noogett. Ay t’ank so, by God!’
“I hurried out after Nugget. He stuck
out his jaw at me, but his wicked little
eyes held a friendly gleam. ‘Goin’ to make
a case, young feller?’ he mocked.
“ ‘I think not, Nugget,’ I replied with a
laugh.
“ ‘Y’ know, Mr. Magistrate,’ he volunteered
after a while, half sheepishly, half defiantly,
‘this coon Dogwatch is a bit of a cobber
of mine. I’ve got no manner of use for
blokes wot won’t do the fair thing by
niggers.’
“ ‘H’m, yes,’ I agreed dubiously. I had not
yet taken Nugget’s measure.
“I took him to my quarters, and we had
a drink, but not before he had bathed
Dogwatch’s bruises with hot water and
ordered him to lie up for the day.
“I met Nugget and his offsider many
times in later years. Once I had occasion
to fine him a tenner for some technical
breach of the law. I knew that things had
not been going well with Nugget, and that
he was flat broke. I even offered to lend
him the money to pay the fine, but he
refused point-blank. You’ll observe, Blay-
don, that I had altered my first-formed
opinions concerning Nugget and his gospel
of the fair thing.
“The next day Dogwatch marched into
the office carrying a filthy parcel done up in
tapa cloth. He cut the strings and de-
posited a heap of greasy, dirty shillings on
the table.
“ ‘Fine b’long Nugget, taubada,’ he ex-
plained.
“I counted the shillings, and there were
exactly two hundred. Later, Nugget drifted
in, very red in the face and very em-
barrassed.
“‘I bin thinking it over, R.M.,’ he com*
menced diffidently, ‘about that fine. If
you’d lend me a tenner until’
“I pointed to the heap of silver lying
on the table. ‘Your boy, Dogwatch, has
just squared it,’ I said.
“Nugget scratched his head. ‘ ’As he?’ he
said in a dazed kind of way. ‘ ’As he?’ and
he went away tugging at his straggling
moustache thoughtfully.
“My corporal told me what had occurred.
Dogwatch, hearing of his master’s troubles,
had gone down to the village and inter-
viewed the chief. ‘My tciubada, whom men
call “Nugget,” is in trouble with the Gov-
ernment,’ he announced.
“ ‘I know well your taubada whom men
call “Nugget,” ’ replied the chief. ‘A terrible
man, with stones in his fists; but just—-
very just.’
“ ‘True,’ agreed Dogwatch. ‘And because
all men know Nugget for a just man, it is
in my mind that two hundred shillings is
but a small sum to’
“ ‘True, 0 Dogwasil’ interrupted the chief.
‘These many years Nugget has bought our
copra, and recruited our young men, visit-
ing his wrath upon those who humbug, and
rewarding greatly those who serve him well.
It shall be done.’
“And they passed the hat around among
the villagers, and collected the tenner in
half an hour. The corporal told me these
things as he was boiling the shillings in a
kerosene tin.
“Always afterwards, the magistracy, from
the Mitre Rock to the Dutch border, dealt
gently with Nugget Smith. In our hearts
we knew him for a better man than we were,
“The years passed, and I was back at
Bonari, this time as R.M. of the division.
Nugget was working a claim on the Garai.
He was never, at any time, a drinking man,
but one night, visiting a mate’s camp, he
took aboard more than he could carry. His
boys—there were eight of them —were in a
bit of a quandary, until Dogwatch had an
inspiration. They trussed up their master
and slung him on a bamboo pole as natives
transport pigs to a feast, and carried him
triumphantly back to camp. In the morn-
ing, when Nugget came to himself, he
sensed dimly that his dignity had been out-
raged, that his pride as a member of the
dominant race had been humbled. He lined
up those eight boys, and belted the everlast-
ing daylight out of them. The field rocked
with laughter, but I took no action. Of
what use? Dogwatch and his pals would
have sworn that their hurts were the result
of a fall from the top of Mount Albert
Edward or something like that.”
The magistrate glanced at his watch.
“There isn’t much more,” he continued.
“One night I was enjoying an after-dinner
smoke on the verandah when Dogwatch
appeared at the foot of the steps, The man
was in a state of utter exhaustion. He had
carried Nugget on his back for over twenty
miles that day. Nugget was pretty far gone
—blackwater. I put him into my bed, and
for ten days we fought for his life. Nugget
was as tough as fencing wire and a game
little fighter, and so we pulled him through.
But it was a close call. I tried to dissuade
him from returning to the field. He needed
a trip South, good tucker, and a spell in a
decent climate. Nugget’s build didn’t leaw
much to come and go on, and when he left
the station he was just the shell of a man.
I had official business on the field, so I de-
cided to take him back to his camp. The
police rigged up a stretcher on which to
carry him over the bad patches. Even my
hard-bitten warriors had come to ‘savee
Nugget’s fashion!’
“There is a bridge over the Kumari now,
but in those days one crossed over a crazy
lawyer-cane, bamboo contraption that swung
in the breeze like a clothes-line. I made
the passage safely, and turned to see how
Nugget was fax-ing. Dogwatch was sup-
porting his master, and both were treading
cautiously, hanging on like grim death. Sud-
denly Nugget staggered and almost fell.
Dogwatch dragged him back to safety, but
seemed to lose his balance. I saw him
swaying, and his dusky face turned grey
with fear. He uttered a little whimper,
grabbed at the hand-line, missed it, and,
with a wild cry, plunged headlong into the
river.
“Nugget stood transfixed for a second;
then he braced himself and balanced him-
self on his crazy perch.
“‘ ’E can’t swim, R.M.,’ he called. ‘ ’E’sa
bushman, Dogwatch’—and quite calmly, as
if he were giving an exhibition of fancy
diving, he took a beautiful header after his
drowning henchman.
“We fished them out half a mile down
stream. Dogwatch was half-drowned, but
he quickly recovered. Nugget was alive,
but that is all. Nugget! We got him back
to the station, and we buried him there, at
sundown, under the poincianas on the
parade-ground.”
The magistrate stood up.
“A white man who was a white man,” he
said softly, “and a nigger who was a nigger!' 1
He turned to Blaydon. “D’you savee what
I have been driving at, Blaydon?” he
asked.
Blaydon nodded. “I think so, R.M.,” he
replied in a low voice. “Thanks!”
The magistrate slapped him heartily on
the back.
“Of course you savee,” he said gently.
“It’s something all decent v r hite men savee
sooner or later. The others —don’t count.”
TAUWARRA.


Sftet:
•s-
J
mm
i# m
k
B . ’ ivWKf.«
’ m -
. *
WESTINGHOUSE
Morse Silent Rocker-Joint
CHAIN DRIVES
Ensure minimum wear—
Maximum life and highest
; efficiency.
Chains in stock—wheels manu-
factured to suit requirements.
Write for particulars
and Booklet BM 414.
THE WESTINCHOUSE BRAKE CO.
OF AUSTRALASIA LTD.,
Queensland Agents—HOLMES X CHCRCH, Brisbane.
>.Z. Office—9 B-107 I’eatherston Street. Wellington.
Victorian Office—99 Queen Street. Melbourne.
South Australian Agents: Messrs. ELDER. SMITH & CO., LTD., Adelaide. S.A
CONCORD WEST, N. S. WALES.
NON-PLUS-ULTRA
CORKBOARD
for
Cold Storage Insulation.
Compressed Cork Sheets, Standard Size 3ft, x Ift.,
in various thicknesses.
Large stocks available for immediate delivery.
J. WILDRIDGE 8 SINCLAIR, LTD.,
97 PITT STREET, SYDNEY,
And at Melbourne, Brisbane, Perth and Auckland (N.Z.).
If any illustration in “THE BULLETIN'’ takes your fancy, write
to the MANA(
a ■
• "
ER, who will c
yubiL*. '■ ' . sfil
JV\ ■'SV <7 - - • - ■
you price tor the original.
THE CRYPTOGRAM
THE GREAT SHAKESPEAREAN WHERE IS IT!
THE SEARCH FOR GOLD AND A CHANCE OF WINNING THE
£lOOO GOLDEN HELMET.
£5O IN PRIZES FOR A CRYPTOGRAM SOLUTION, AND £6666
IN PRIZES IN THE
N.S.W. FIRE BRIGADES' ART UNION.
For the Hospitals and Ambulances of the State.
~ . .. „ (Sanctioned by the Attorney-General),
special distribution of £5O in Prizes to tlnse who can discover a quotation from Shake-
speare in the Cryptogram, in this advertisement.
The First Prirc in the Fire Brigades’ Art Union for the
Hospitals an-i Ambulances is a Fireman’s Helmet of Pure
Gold, weighing over 201 b., and valued at £lOOO in Sterling
Cash.
m
The Old Pot of Luck,
3475 Chances for £l,
THIS Helmet that shines OUT like burnished gold in
times of danger, we FIND was in use in THE heroic
ages, AND it still REMAINS the symbol of deeds of re-
nown. No matter what the CAUSE may be, when fires
break out, when danger threatens life and limb, WE look
to the men in the golden helmets to EFFECT a save.
And so it has Come to pass THAT all OF us NOW look
® v * re , Brigades to help the Hospitals. Send your
Shillmgs along, for they help you and they help the
community you live in.
In the above paragraph there are twelve words printed in
capital letters Assemble these words and make them read
as a quotation from Hamlet, Act 11. Enclose the answer in
an envelope with a shilling for a ticket in the Art Union,
ine answers swill' be placed in : a separate barrel and the
FIRST PRI2F rnp TUC *Scd U r n take Place immediately after the Art Union.
Five Consolation T ? CRYPTOGRAM, £2O; Second Prize, £5:
Forty C Cons!datlc?n^Prizesof 5/-*eaoli.' Twcnty Consolation Prizes of 10/- each; and
drawn-out nf^thp 6 awarded to th e way in .which the correct answers are
answer Sen! ‘ S 7ery Ticke ‘ Purchased through the post will carry an
hpr W ? e -f'Tim.Pt? | e P arate sl) P 3 as many answers as you take tickets, and remem-
ThP Lh.Hrn 5 I or „ £1: i 2 l l ckets for , 10 /i 6 tickets ffor 5/.
under spii xcitvf tl hlS n^ ryptog ! ri i m -b k 7 own on ly t 0 the Secretary, has been lodged
B.thU Str"*.» B*S„Sr C 0 ” ”< Wn «-- < P, “ “ d
m’’«!th£SL of°Send RouKta’Hlt.*'*' 1 '" “ Xi " E *****•■
M-ipi np R Tu? R iSfSI :S ,’c ART UNI ° N FOR THE HOSPITALS AND AMBUL-
PIRST B PHT7T?- E 4 T i T ra n a ui‘ t S I ? ed by the Attorney-General).
Th»« o s £ lld fireman's Helmet, Valued at £lOOO.
■this is a veritable Pot of Luck.
4th'u tU n-p- ke r £B45 1 3rd. Thornycroft Motor Lorry, £641;
Par -^ a3h ' £595 ,i 5th ’ Austin Five-geater, £395; 6th, Buick Touring
Plover Piano th £2i E3 - Se pnd C ?ln h ’*n 299 ’’ , 8th ’ Shulz Player Pian0 ’ £225: 9th ' Victor
T CCTTS i) £n VoSl 13 nt. ot „ 1 l er i llzes valued at from £275 t 0 £ 4/10/-.
FOB 5/-. 1 BOOKS 0P 2a FOR £1; 12 TICKETS FOR 10/-; 6 TICKETS
3475 CHANCES FOR £l.
Sydney? ec7etary of tlle Fire Brigades’ Art Union, Circular Quay Station,
Write plainly, state whether Mr., Mrs,, or Miss
no ra %Ttponment PlaCe CHlg Flr date riE ruU M ead^ters ° n Au^ust Positively
Send Stamped and Addressed Envelopes for Ticket and Result Slip.
J. J. NEVILLE. Hon. Sec,
fSeecfal!?,
' CM,
Are of vegetable origin
Best suited to purposes
Of purification
A Wonderful Pill
Simple to take - easy to use
Contain nothing harmful
Contain no gas - not oily
A Safe Pill
You can rely upon
BEECH AM’S PILES
To give natural assistance
To stomach, liver and bowels
And promote sound health
A Sure Pill
teEECHAM’S PILLS
Afford positive relief
When you suffer from
Biliousness, sick headache
Indigestion, constipation*
©
©
©
aMea > w
fattf moot
Ŗ
5*
>** 4
%
0
Marine
Engines
For all boats of the medium duty
type, Kermath Marine Engines of 3
to 100 horsepower have proved
themselves best by actual, hard, un-
failing service.
All parts Standard and Interchange-
able. American Eosch Magnetos—
impulse coupling.
3 to 100 H. P.,
1 to 6 cylinders,
4-cycle Engines.
HALL BROS., LTD.,
Careening Cove (foot of Willoughby St.),
Milson’s Point, North Sydney, N.S.W.
} KERMATH MANUFACTURING CO
Dotroit, Michigan U. S. A.
Cable Address: KERMATH
Models:
1/f/J/Oh.p., 20/60h.p.,
80/90h.p. and 8-litre.
Fitted with Four-wheel Brakes.
Authorised Dealers;
WILLIAMS BROS., Ltd.,
255-259 Elizabeth Street,
SYDNEY.
British Cars for f
British People •
The new Sunbeam three-litre sporting
car is the finest ever produced. It
embodies all the experience in engine
design and chassis construction which
has made Sunbeam cars supreme in the
racing world. Its body work is typical
of Sunbeam easy luxury and fine
appearance, and it comes as a worthy
addition to the fine range of touring
models which are already famous for
their inimitable performance and re-
liability.
THE SUPREME
Sunbeam
Fur the - particulars are available from
THE SUNBEAM MOTOR CAR CO. LTD.,
Export Department, 12 Princes Street,
Hanover Square, London, AV.I.
Cable Address: “Supermoco, London
Works, Wolverhampton.
HARBOR TOURIST TRIPS
Weather and other circumstances permitting.
From Fort Macquarie at 10.15 a.m. and 2.15 p.m.
EVERY TUESDAY AND EVERY THURSDAY.
lares; All-day. 2/6; Half-day. 1/6. Children, 1/- and Gd.
Luncheon by reservahon at Clifton Gardens Hotel. Afternoon Tea on Board.
SPECIAL TRIP EVERY SUNDAY .n, m.i,™ No. 6 JETTY, CIRCULAR QUAY
Tri..: (4 llna), M " t *' «“■ By<tea . L|d


m
S 1
' i
' *
as
.
\V*'
l
h
%
w
w
A
"m
' ,*■
um
m
/lit
Vs\\WW\\\
s KQSsIi
1
*fc
80S
as
:
&
XSaaiUUUii
El
r
DEWAR’S
The Spirit of the Empire
It is that unbroken EVENNESS that is so much
appreciated in DEWAR’S. It is produced by
the skilful blending of whiskies — Old and Ample.
DEWAR’S is simply a
