

Movies
13$
.
Ak
make
tj y'
i " fe ,S
n
M? I
n
m"-
, ¥
hi
m
\
ch
m
■ .-/i'
M/9
$r
THE newest and most interesting sport is personal “movies”
making moving pictures YOURSELF.
How wonderful it all isl The pictures are no harder to make than
ordinary snapshots; but what a difference when you see them on
the screen with all the life and action of the original.
You make them with die Cine-Kodak, priced from £l6/16/-. No
focussing, no tripod. Just sight the object and press the release; a
spring does the rest.
The Kodascope, price £l7, shows your “movies” for you, also photo-
plays, cartoons and travel pictures from the Kodascope Library.
)AK
Demonstrations at all Branches,
or Write for Illustrated Booklet.
Of all Kodak Dealers and
KODAK (Australasia) PTY. LTD.
379 George Street and “The Block,” 284 Collins Street,
108 Market Street, Sydney. and 161 Swanston Street,
250-52 Queen Street, Brisbane; Melbourne.
and The Valley. 37 Rundle Street, Adelaide.
45 Elizabeth Street, Hobart. 672 Hay Street, Perth.
Ruthven Street, Toowoomba; Flinders Street, Townsville; East Street, Rockhampton;
“The Kodak Corner,’’ corner Lambton Quay and Willis Street, Wellington, N.Z.
The Bulletin
Vol. 48.—N0. 2471.
See page 36,
Thursday, June 23, 1927.
Price 6d.
Registered at the General Post Office,' Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.


WITHINTHESHADOW,
V V By MAURICE C. GROOM.
A book devoted to Australia’s problems.
6/- (Postage 3d.), ALL BOOKSELLERS.
WRITE for the 1927 New Library Cata-
logue, which is now ready and will be
sent post free with full terms and particulars
on application to
DYMOCK’S BOOK ARCADE, LTD.,
428 George Street, Sydney.
L.YS AG HT
o
0
R
AUSTRALIA
Support Australian Industries.
All users of Galvanized Iron should specify
Lysaght’s Australian-made
Galvanized Corrugated Iron.
Manufactured wholly from Australian Raw
Materials, and equal to the best imported.
m
■imm.
4*?
... ■.
ft** ««<
m
M
{Bonnie Cherubs Owe their Precious
Lives to the Building-up Power of
?EEBLE and fretful, unable to as-
similate nourishment from their
natural food, HIfPOL was ordered.
Almost the first few doses put the
joy of living into their little beings
by promoting fresh impulse, vigour,
and bodily health. Now it’s romp
all day, and sweet, refreshing sleep
at night. Mother says the HYPOL
treatment was “ Just Wonderful.”
KYPOL is a Cod Liver Oil Enrol-
■ / sion of peculiar distinctiveness
—full of valuable elements for
health, and famed for its richness,
freshness, and restorative power.
Only those who have taken HYPOL
know how good it is—how it streng-
thens and sustains. For severe
Colds, Bronchitis, Unhealthy Lungs,
HYPOL is without equal.
You protect yourself by asking for the Original and Genuine
AD high-class Chemists stock it. Made by FELTON, GRIMWADE & CO. PROP. LTD., Melbourne.
For Years of Good Sendee
Certainly, you want a rifle that will assure the best
results —on the target or in the field. Every rifle bearing
the Stevens name is scientifically built to shoot accu-
rately and to last through years of usage. Whether
you prefer the single shot or the repeating rifle, there
are many popular Stevens Models to suit your taste,
and all are most reasonably priced.
&d f k v-v a.,- * i
==
as
*
si®
Stevens No. 11 Single Shot. Hound
barrel. Drop breech bolt, positive extrac-
tor. Take down frame. Made for . 22 caliber
cartridges.
- , 4 ..
■- ■ -
eS*2s
Stevens No. 70 Repeater, Visible Loader,
Round Barrel, Slide Forearm. Magazine
holds eleven .22 long rifle or thirteen . 22
long or fifteen . 22 short R. F. Cartridges.
Walnut stock. Steel butt plate.
■■■■■■■
Stevens No. 17. Round Barrel, shoots 22
long, 25 rim-fire, or 32 long rim-fire car-
tridges. Single-shot, lever action, auto-
matic ejector on .22 cal.
Exclusive Representative for Australia and New Zealand
P.0.80x 966 ASHER SMITH, LTD. Sydney,N.S.W.
J. STEVENS ARMS CO., Export Offices: 100 East 42nd St., New York, U. S. A.
Owners of Page-Lewis Arms Co. Owned and operated by Savage Arms Corp.
FOR THE VOICE! THROAT! LUNGS!
HUDSON’S Eumenthol Jujubes
m
JUJ
S'™
3®
ON
HU
AN IDEAL REMEDY
For Coughs, Colds, Sore Throats,
Bronchitis, Influenza.
Containing no Cocaine or Other
Poisonous Drug.
Suited for Old and Young.
The Lancet says“ Proved to be effective bac-
tericidally as is creosote.”
Unlike cough medicines, EUMfiNT H °L JUJUBtb
do not interfere with the Digestion; on the contrary;
they have a beneficial effect, as them aseptic
properties prevent abnormal fei mentation ot t-
when taken after meals.
The Red Page
Three of Our Novelists
Less than most countries is Australia
likely to find one great novel to express
her varied life in past and present. Our
good novels are bound to be each limited
to one kind of goodness or another. This
is true in part for other countries too; but
in countries smaller and more settled than
our own there is more possibility of
novelists overlapping and rivalling each
other on the same ground. Many novelists
before Sheila Kaye-Smith, for instance, have
“done” Sussex and its people. Many may
do it in the future. Comparisons of quality
are possible there; whereas in Australia the
virgin soil of the enormous field of persons
and places will for long remain inexhaustible.
It is to be expected, then, that when we
examine certain recent novels that have
overcome all the complex hindrances to
their arrival we shall find them quite un-
like each other. No wonder, since they are
each knocking a chip off quite a different
corner of the vast rough block we call
Australia. The second quality these novels
have in common is that they reach a level
of accomplishment that makes them
accepted on a kind of “world’s parity” of
novel-writing.
Someone said to me lately that our best-
neglected novelist was Henry Handel
Richardson. The early and re-published
novel, “Maurice Guest,” is still read, not as
the book of an Australian, but as a standard
novel of musical life in Germany. For
Australia, though, the more important work
is the historical trilogy, “The Fortunes of
Richard Mahony,” of which two volumes
have appeared and the third is due before
long. This series has a genuine unity of
plot and character, unlike Many so-called
trilogies which are just three lengths of
journalistic impressions threaded on a few
attractive heart-affairs, Henry Efandel
Richardson’s trilogy is one to make any
country proud: a re-creation of life “on
Ballarat” in the ’fifties, life in Melbourne
during the ’seventies, with later years to
follow. Historically solid in its setting, the
book reveals, above all, the inevitable con-
flict between the old world and our new
one. In the person of Richard Mahony, a
stiff-necked West Briton from Dublin, you
have imported pride together with the con-
stant attempt to unbend and enjoy the
free-and-easy “colonial ways.” Amo *et
excrucior! You feel that if in the end the
colony can incorporate such an intractable
substance as Richard, then indeed Aus-
tralia is an entity, ready for the develop-
ment (in the third volume) of Richard’s
impressive little son.
Chester Cobb is a novelist whose books
have made a greater impression overseas
than here, where the papers have indeed
given them a polite approval. At a period
when every second novel published is a
welter of false sub-Freudian complexes
revealed by the crudest of reactions, Chester
Cobb’s “Days of Disillusion” is an achieve-
ment in the direction of subtlety and sin-
cerity. Taking as its theme the life of
a man in urban and suburban Sydney, it
shows us a type such as we used to ascribe
to. George Gissing. With almost no inspira-
tion from one end of the book to the other,
' the man worries along, a commonplace little
chap, bothered about money and sex alter-
nately and sometimes simultaneously. The
reader wonders that anyone can manage,
on so little mental or spiritual capital, to
seem interesting. The point is, of course,
that as child and man this character was
interesting to the author, who conveys his
enthusiasm, conveys it in an original form,
too. For the title “Days of Disillusion” is
literal and exact- Ladling out, as it were,
a day from his hero’s life once in every
seven years or so up till the age of 40
(which brings him to 1926), the author lives
that day through. The man sheds one
illusion after another about the people
around him—his mother, his wife. The last
illusion to leave him is that of his own
complete worthiness: the “new day” of the
last chapter surely amounts to this whiff
of self-knowledge. Chester Cobb’s sincerity
and health of mind are shown unobtrusively
in his acceptance of Sydney as an environ-
ment for his characters, without apologies
or explanations. This is more of a virtue
than shows at first glance. If his book
leaves a slight impression of flatness, it is
partly because the dialogues as recounted
have no personal flavor to distinguish
speaker A from speaker B, and partly be-
cause all the characters, outside the central
one, are drawn as silhouettes. Still, the
book remains sincere and consistent, and
therefore a rare one.
Katharine Prichard, beside Chester Cobb,
appearing simultaneously in many review
notices, makes a contrast almost comical
in its completeness. Chester Cobb’s charac-
ters are dead to the atmosphere about them,
even the rare atmosphere of Sydney-town.
They may notice that brilliant trams look
cosy on a winter evening—little more than
that. Katharine Prichard, in her “Working
Bullocks,” shows men and women of whose
lives of heavy toil and poverty, even more
than of Chester Cobb’s business man in
Sydney, it might be said that they were
“not without dust and heat.” Yet her
people move through a world of beauty and
passion, “steeped in the solitude of the
bush,” taming splendid wild horses, or
caught up in the mood of a forest storm
which adds poignancy to a love-scene. There
is no saying that one vision of life is truer
than the other; everything depends on the
force of its expression. Enough has been
said of Katharine Prichard’s work lately to
demonstrate that she has given her vision
clearly. In Henry Handel Richardson’s
work, the precise lack is in sensuous im-
pressions; never a bird sings, in all those
dewy gullies to. be crossed between
Ballarat and Melbourne. Chester Cobb’s
people move along a mill-round, not a sun-
patli. It remains for one with Katharine
Prichard’s particular gift for delighted per-
ception to spill the authentic beauty of the
bush across her pages.
Readers may or may not enjoy all these
novels. Perhaps it would take a very
catholic taste to be drawn instinctively to
three such unlike pieces of work, each for
its own quality and savor. No one, though,
can deny their status. No one can form
an opinion on the contemporary Australian
novel without accounting for all three.
NETTIE PALMER.
Marshall Hall
Two recent articles in the Red Page, on
“Musical Criticism” and “Lyric Singing,”
bring before us these important points in an
artist’s work—the quality of emotion >
pressed by an artist, and the difference
between interpretation and mere perform-
ance.
Emotion is a moving out of energy by
which an artist gives something from within
himself to others. Broadly speaking, man
has two kinds of energy and emotional ex-
pression—the sensual and the spiritual.
Popular art often stops short ~at the first;
it makes no pretence about it, and is a
perfectly legitimate branch of art. But a
healthy person is soon satiated by it; he
needs food for both sides of his nature.
When we turn to the master musicians
whose work has stood the test of time, we-
find the Spiritual element in the ascendant,
though that ascendancy was often gained
at the cost of an inner struggle which is
freely expressed in their work. Men like
Beethoven, Bach, Brahms and Cesar Franck
had to fight for their spiritual possessions,
but they won them, and their music is full
of conquest and attainment, as well as of
struggle. They do not leave you “in the
air,” or shut in and despairing, like so many
modern composers. But the spiritual quality
of their emotion makes them difficult to
interpret to the general public that has had
no training in that sort of thing. It is
easy to arouse sensual emotion, much more
difficult to gain a response to the expres-
sion of the more highly developed side of
man. This is one of the reasons why
Bach is such a severe test of a player, if
the artist is merely a performer, a virtuoso
and not an interpreter, he will probably
bore the audience if he plays Bach’s music,
for Bach’s emotion is. so often spiritual.
Undoubtedly, too, Bach wrote some muiic
that is uninspired and uninteresting from
anything but a technical and purely intellec-
tual point of view. He had to write much
music to order for special occasions in the
church of which he was organist, and it is
not surprising that inspiration would not
always come to order.
Those who had the good fortune to study
music with that great interpreter Professor
Marshall Hall studied Bach in the same
way as other composers were studied—
from the inside. It was as a re-creator
of great music that Marshall Hall was so
distinguished. He was astonishingly catholic
in his sympathies. Looking back to the
orchestral concerts which he gave regu-
larly in the Melbourne Town Hall, one re-
members renderings of the works of all the
great German composers as well as Russian
and French, British and Italian. He did not
do much very modern music. For one
thing, it was difficult to procure, and did
not appeal so strongly to him. Under his
guidance students learned to interpret music
of many different nationalities and times,
and to understand the different idioms and
styles of widely differing composers. This
made large demands on their hiiman sym-
pathies and understanding as well as their
intellect. Music-study under these con-
ditions yras most engrossing, and at times
exhausting. But one gained a considerable
knowledge of various nationalities which
greatly increased one’s international sym-
pathies. The Professor was, moreover, a
great student of literature, and freely used
his knowledge to help the study of works of
different periods. As a student one took
these things for granted, and simply enjoyed
them; but since his death, and after hear-
ing many other artists great and small, one
realises more clearly the unique quality of
the work of this man, who gave of his best
so freely to his students and to the public.
Much of his best work was done without
remuneration, and the conductor sometimes
helped to defray expenses from his own
pocket. He was a young man, still in the
twenties, when he came here, and he de-
veloped his orchestral leadership far away
from the influence of European conductors,
(Continued on page 5.)


Anthony Horderns'
%
J
Value in Tailoring
Made-to-measure Suits, perfectly tailored/ featuring indi-
vidual style preferences, and well made to give long
service. Select from fine English and Australian Wor-
steds of excellent quality. In shades of Grey, Blue-Grey,
Fawn or Navy. Although very moderately priced, the
quality and value are paramount. Write for self
measurement form and patterns post free on request.
Anthony Horderns
Postal Address :
SYDNEY
Box No. 2712 C, G.P.O.


THE FIRST REALLY FINE
2A
rs
GJheNew
QUALITY SMALL CAP,
AD
■v /
C
ERSKIME
SIX
'’"The New Erskine Six—Studebaker’s New
A Wonder Car—will revolutionise all your
ideas of what you may expect in a small car.
When first you ride in it, you will have an
entirely new sensation—a feeling of buoyant
flight—a resiliency that puts miles behind you
like satin ribbons.
Long, semi-elliptic springs, equalling four-
fifths of the wheel-base, cradle passengers and
car alike from the shocks of the road—com-
fort, even in the roughest kind of going.
Plenty of Head and Leg Room
When you look at the trim, low-hung body of the Erskine
you cannot realise that its interior space is so efficiently
utilised that even the largest persons find ample head
and leg room, without crowding or cramping.
The New Erskine Six is now in our Showrooms
awaiting your inspection. We shall appreciate the
opportunity of taking you driving in this New Wonder
Car. A trial run, at your convenience, will prove
its remarkable power, responsiveness, comfort and
riding ease.
NEW REDUCED PRICES s
4 Door, 5 passenger Custom Tourer - £3lO
4 Door, 5 passenger Custom Sedan - £370
'West Australia and New Zealand excepted.
(All Erskine Six Models are equipped with
five Tyres and Bumpers, front and rear.)
Cradled inSprirujs
821 of«s
Total Wheelbase
THE ERSKINE SIX
Superlative Per£ormance ol
“ The New Wonder Car ••
1. Capable of maintaining a
speed of 60 miles per hour —
Great Stamina.
2. Hugs the road at all speeds—
Correct Balance.
3. Brakes (new 4-wheel type)
operate easily, smoothly and
unfailingly — Positive Safety.
4. Glides over rough roads—
rides like an aeroplane—
New Comfort.
5. 25 and more miles to the
gallon of petrol, 1,200 miles
per gallon of oil— Thrifty
Economy.
6. Accelerates from 5 to 25
miles in 8| seconds —whips
through traffic like a bullet —
Extremely Flexible.
7. With full load climbs 11 per
cent, grade in top gear —
Super-Reserve Power.
8. Turns in a radius of 18 ft.—
Easy Control.
9. Steers as easily as a bicyle—
A Real Pleasure.
10. Occupies only 14 feet of
parking space A Rare
Convenience.
" THE LITTLE ARISTOCRAT ”
evokes both admiration for itself
and respect for its owner .
A complete line of New Studebaker Custom Models
is also now on display at our Showrooms. Prices of
Studebaker open cars from £3BO to £675. Prices of
Studebaker closed cars from to £Bl5. STUDE-
BAKER BUILDS ONLY FINE QUALITY CARS.
To-day, more than ever before, the knowing motor-
ists with discriminating tastes, who want a really fine
cor and know how much they should pay for it, are
making their selection from the STUDEBAKER-
ERSKINE line of FINE QUALITY CARS.
AUSTRALIAN AND NEW ZEALAND DISTRIBUTORS:
Studebaker Corporation of Australasia, Ltd., 165 Elizabeth Street, Sydney.
Turner Bros., 396-400 Swanston Street, Melbourne.
Canada Cycle & Motor Agency (Q.), Ltd., Creek and Adelaide Streets, Brisbane.
Duncan & Fraser, Ltd., 42-48 Franklin Street, Adelaide.
Sydney Atkinson Motors, Ltd., 41-45 Pier Street, Perth.
Island Motors Proprietary, Ltd., 76 Murray Street, Hobart.
Adams. Ltd.. 152-154 High Street, Christchurch.
Local Dealers at all important town*.
THE L ITT I.
ARISTOCRAT
M O T O RDO


m
© \
m
re
7,
as*
J
The sports decks of the Orient Liners are
admirably adapted to every description
of shipboard game, thereby offering the
traveller unsurpassed facilities for recrea-
tion and exercise throughout the voyage.
ORIENT LINE
2, J/, 6 Spring Street, Sydney.
Branches and Agencies throughout Australia and New Zealand.
and educated his audiences into an intelli-
gent understanding and appreciation of the
finest music of many lands.
The gramophone has made us acquainted
with scores of great conductors and orches-
tras, but one can honestly affirm that quite
as great performances were heard in one’s
own city. The quality of some instruments,
and the technique of some players in the
great European and American orchestras,
may be better; but the interpretation and
performance is rarely more impressive.
A generation has grown up which does
not know much orchestral music. Perhaps,
therefore, if we wish to revive interest in
that, branch of music we would do well to
invite some conductor of good standing to
visit Australia either with a complete or-
chestra or the nucleus of one, as leaders, to
give concerts in all the States. Probably
it would be much easier to raise a fund to
guarantee a definite and limited scheme of
this kind than to raise a large fund to
guarantee a permanent orchestra, and we
could then visualise the possibilities of a
more lasting organisation.
Those who shared the musical life of Mel-
bourne before the war realise how much
stimulus and comfort, is missing in their
daily life owing to the lack of regular
orchestral performances. AVe have had
visits from many great artists, but these are
the luxuries of the musical life rather than
its daily bread. Mr. Dyer’s gift of £lO,OOO
towards a permanent orchestra was given to
provide wholesome musical sustenance for
the ordinary hardworking citizen. One
would like to see an organisation which
could .give concerts in the principal cities
of Australia and reach the whole country
through the radio, and so bring fine music
within the reach of all, and not merely of
a comparatively few who can pay high
prices for the privilege. As the thoughts
of many seem to be turned to the considera-
tion of this question, one can only hope
that something of benefit to the whole of
Australia may result, and musical starva-
tion become a thing of the past.
H. J. WOLFE.
The Autobiography of W. B. Yeats
A tall poet in a cloak, pacing by the
shores of a pale Irish lake with a volume of
Lady Gregory’s prose in his hand and his
head in the clouds—that is how he has
appeared! Even George Moore, in his
trilogy, did nothing to destroy this vague
popular vision; on the contrary, he used it
with subtle and slightly malicious art for
his own purposes. The publication of
*Yeats’s autobiography should help to dis-
pel the romantic mist that has gathered
round the poet.
The early Yeats, by the trembling of his
rhythms and the lack of emphasis in his
rhymes, introduced a new and delicate music
into English poetry. He even infected with
a lyrical tremolo the sober march of blank
verse. By the use of temperamental adjec-
tives he created a dim and shadowy dream-
world of his own, filling it with the figures
of Irish mythology; and so potent were his
imagination and his style that it is his
vision of these gods and heroes that sur-
vives still, rather than the boisterous, virile
projections of Standish O’Grady. But . the
externals of so marked a style are easy to
imitate, and the crowd of young poets he
inspired began to wear out his words and
his music. “I made my song a coat,” he
says in one of his later poems:—
I made my song a coat
Covered with embroideries
Out of old mythologies
From heel to throat;
But the fools caught it,
AA T ore it in the world’s eyes
As though they’d wrought it.
Song, let them take it,
For there’s more enterprise
In walking naked.
There is more in his change of style than
that, though. Quite obviously he has
simplified it so that he can extend the
range of his poetry and take in all the vari-
ous subjects that occupy his mind. Except-
ing Thomas Hardy there is no man writing
English who can transmute so absolutely
into poetry his reflections on quite ordinary
things. Politics, the endowment of a Dublin
Art Gallery, the names of living figures—
he touches them and they take on strange
significance. AVhat more difficult test is
there of a poet than that! Quite minor
talents can play creditably enough with the
old poetic properties; it takes the authentic
breath of the creative spirit to bring magic
to things generally considered common-
place. Those who lament the passing of
his earlier music, and think of him only as
the author of “Innisfree” and similar lyrics,
must be blind to this new growth.
In his prose the parallel change is even
more marked. As a young man he wrote
it as a poet does, moving stiffly in an un-
familiar medium, and giving an emotional
coloring to words and phrases that did not
need them. It is hard for a poet to re-
member that prose lives in the light of
reason and should be like good conversa-
tion at its highest point. But what could
be more easy, and yet distinguished, than
this style in which he writes his autobio-
graphy? It is highly personal; it has none
of the “metropolitan lead and solder” that
he despises; it comes from a mind too
steeped in real culture to bother much
about the passing fashions and reputations
of the day. Yet it makes the most pene-
trating analysis of ideas and characters in
terms of a clear colloquialism, as, for in-
stance, when he writes of the AVilde family:
“The AA’ilde family was clearly of the sort
that fed the imagination of Charles Lever,
dirty, untidy, daring and what Charles
Lever, who loved more normal activities,
might not have valued so highly, very imagi-
native and learned. Lady AVilde, who when
I knew her received her friends with blinds
drawn and shutters closed so that none might
see her withered face, longed always, though
certainly amid much self-mockery, for some
impossible splendor of character and circum-
stance. She lived near her son in level
Chelsea, but I have heard her say, T want
to live on some high place, Primrose Hill or
Highgate, because I was an eagle in my
youth.’ ”
It. was Oscar’s misfortune that he inherited
the rather shabby romanticism without the
self-mockery. He perpetually performed a
play which was the very opposite of all he
had known in childhood and early youth;
he “never completely put off his wonder at
opening his eyes every morning in his own
beautiiul house, and in remembering that
he had dined yesterday with a duchess, and
that he delighted in Flaubert and Pater,
read Homer in the original and not as a
schoolmaster reads him for the grammar.”
It is these reminiscences of the
eighteen-nineties that give the book its
more topical interest, though probably none
of the figures associated with that period
have as much importance as Yeats himself.
To him Dowson, Lionel Johnson and the
others were “poets with whom I learned
my trade,” not powerful influences. He
analyses them as friends and individual
artists, and seems unaffected by the cheap
fiction that has given the eighteen-nineties
an exotic glamor in popular legend. Indeed,
Yeats has been very little affected by any
of the currents that carry on the English
literary tradition. His mind is mediaeval,
full of intellectual curiosities that are not
the modern ones, finding its images among
the rocks and thorn-bushes of the Sligo that
first nourished it. Although familiar with
most of the coteries and movements of the
last 30 years, he remains always ap out-
sider, writing in English but feeling in
Irish, and conscious of the rest of the Euro-
pean world.
Perhaps that is why his stature has been
most easily seen from abroad. The people
who awarded him the Nobel Prize could
not have been really familiar with the subtle
music and symbolism of his poetry, but
they were certainly aware of him as a literary
force, the creator of a living theatre, one
of the revivers of an ancient culture. His
autobiography, more than his poems, reveals
the part of him that has “carried over” the
frontiers and given him a European repu-
tation.
VANCE PALMER.
Hymn of the Body Louse
Great Father, hail! Upholder of our house,
Ineffable Creator of the Louse,
In whose hands lie the always and the now,
With lowered probosces at Thy feet we bow,
Who planted us in every place and clime,
Preserved us ’gainst the accidents of time,
Led by the claw our errant wandering race,
Brought us each one to his appointed place.
God of our fathers, in Thy might we trust.
A feeble people, less than dust of dust,
Feeble in body, feebler still in wit,
AVhat is the louse that Thou sliouldst care
for it?
AA T e, having neither jaws nor stings for fight,
Yet conquer always sheltered by Thy might,
Unarmored, blind, with neither strength
nor speed,
AVithout Thine eyes to watch our every need,
How could our race exist from day to day :
Thy part to act, ours but to watch and prey!
Yet we confess unto our people’s shame
Lice have arisen who deny Thy name,
AVhose proud but foolish minds no God dis-
cerning
Replace our creed with false and specious
learning,
AA’ho prate of Powers Unknowable, of Chance,
And see creation in the atom’s dance.
For proof convincing any louse may find.
Yes! all except these wicked, wilful blind;
If such could be convinced by argument,
One proof unanswerable Thou hast sent.
Thou hast created, solely for our good,
One special animal, our home and food,
Neither a fish nor fowl, not beast nor bird,
A creature in so many ways absurd,
That ’twould be blasphemous to think that
He
AVho brought all good and lovely things to
be
Could e’er design this foolish, foul abortion,
Except to be Thy Chosen People's portion.
This fatuous comedy, creation’s dregs,
This uncouth thing that walks upon two
legs—
Even the dogs, slaves of our friends the
fleas,
Having four legs, are higher things than
these!
Four legs indeed were few enough to wear,
For six we know all noble creatures bear.
This wretched being, having half a skin,
AA T ears clothes to case his shivefing carcase
in.
Sure, wilfully must those be blind and dense.
AVho fail to see in this Thy Providence.
This wretched being’s very imperfection
Means warmth and life to those of Thy
Election.
Our feeble beaks could never pierce the bides
Of any living animals besides,
Could never perforate to reach the blood;
Of all God’s children the especial food,
Elaborated for their special need,
From all the filth on which these creatures
feed.
Who could believe this perfect food and drink
Alade from dead animals and things that
stink?
Pushed through a hole in this vile creature’s
face,
They make the manna of Thy Chosen Race.
And the foul cloth with which this creature
apes
The clean warm fur that other creatures
drapes,
For ages past, for ages still to come,
Has been, shall be, our shelter and our home.
AAfliere are the atheists, the would-be wise,
Who cannot use their brains or use their
eyes ?
Who cannot see what ev’n an egg should
know,
That only Providence could make things so?
We call on it to cease its foolish din,
Only one animal with half a skin ;
We call on it to quit its silly pose,
Only one animal that walks in clothes,
One animal made ours uniquely, twice,
Created solely for the use of lice.
“Who questions hands, seeing the work of
tools?”
That is our answer to these doubting fools.
AVe bow probosces, humbly raise our claws,
To Him who made for lice all things, all
laws.
N.s.w.
A. S. VALLACK.
A Satchel of Books
Sands, Palms and Minarets, by Madeleine
Vernon (Bles). A book of travel in Algeria,
Tunis and Morocco. Covers no new ground,
but is a picturesque presentment and has a
number of well-reproduced photographs.
The Motor Trade Directory of Australia
(Associated Trade Journals Co., Sydney).
This directory is in its fourth year and is
the standard reference book and recognised
buyers and sellers’ guide for the motor trade
throughout the Commonwealth. It is packed
with information invaluable to those engaged
in the industry.
The London Child, by Evelyn Sharp (John
Lane). Though the benevolent reformer has
revolutionised London childhood since the
end of the nineteenth century, much yet
remains to be done for the juvenile citizen.
And until the slum home has ceased to be,
the reformation will be incomplete. The book,
full of experiences of East London life, is
illustrated by Eve Garnett.
Her Mother’s Daughter, by Nalbro Bart-
ley (John Lane). Gloria’s many and dubi-
ous exploits furnish the material of a happy-
go-lucky story in which the baker’s daughter,
having refused her hand in marriage to no
fewer than three chefs and a baking-powder
manufacturer, finds consolation eventually in
the arms of a gentleman named Tag. Moves
in an atmosphere of tarts arid meringues.
A Pedigree of Stapleton, by Alfred Staple-
ton (Swain). “No reason exists,” says the
author, “why the pedigree should continue
the jealous prerogative of the high-born and
the wealthy” ; so, having a bit of money to
spare, he produces this extraordinary com-
pilation. But as the only family-tree the
Australian is much interested in concerns
the horse, the local demand for the present
volume isn’t likely to overwhelm anybody.
Capital for Labor, by W. Francis Lloyd
and Bertram Austin (Benn). “The tradi-
tional idea of the average British employer
that low wages are a fundamental necessity
for economic production finds no acceptance
in this book,” say the authors, who urge the
abolition of the present wage system and the
substitution of “a system of universal pay-
ment by results.” Difficulties in the way of
arranging earnings in accordance with effort
could, they believe, be overcome; only in a
few cased would it be impossible. The
authors, apparently, do not know that in
Australia the objection to payment by results
comes not so much from employers—most of
whom indeed are in favor of it—as from the
officials and spokesmen of the Labor unions.
Insects of Australia and New Zealand, by
R. J. Tillyard (Angus and Robertson). A
monumental and authoritative work by one
of Sydney University’s most distinguished
graduates, and so comprehensive that a good
deal of condensation has been necessary. It
takes the form of a systematised scientific
treatise rather than a “popular” account,
but, though intended primarily for the stu-
dent. will interest and enlighten even the
most “amateur” entomologist; there is a
special chapter on collecting and mounting
that should appeal particularly to beginners.
Safeguarding and Protection, by Francis W.
Hirst (Cobden-Sanderson). Mr. Hirst is a vigor-
ous if not violent Freetrader. All that Cobden
fought for is being undermined by subtle
innovations. The time he considers is ripe
to “re affirm old truths and rouse English-
men from a false sense of security.” What
Mr. Hirst does not point out is that mean-
time England has to face barriers against
her own manufactures in every quarter,
whilst foreign products flow freely into her
marts crowded with unemployed living upon
a national dole. Freetrade with reciprocity
may be ideal, but without reciprocity it is
suicide.
———♦
“N.Q.”: The Films and Art, divorced by
D. P. McGuire (R.P. 26/5/’27), had been
given at least a judicial separation before
by that well-known magistrate, G. B. Shaw.
Apocryphal or not, the story goes that a re-
presentative of Hollywood approached Shaw
with a proposition that lie should go to Los
Angeles and write a scenario. The appeal
was carefully prepared to suit a sensitive
highbrow. All the stress was laid on the
idea of Art. The cinema was shown to be
bursting with Art. Never would Mr. Shaw’s
Art have such an outing as now. Mr. Slmw
listened, edified indeed but not visibly per-
suaded. At length he replied. “Mr. X., the
trouble is that you and I look at this matter
of dramatic work so differently that I fear
we cannot work together. I confess to a
deep interest in financial results, while yon
obviously care solely for its artistic worth.
Good morning!”
“Pulex”: Sailormen don’t read Conrad
(R.P. 12/5/’27) and “the real Kiplingite
public.... is becoming bald or grizzled”
(R.P. 24/3/’27). But what do sailors and
schoolboys read? The Seafarers’ Education
Service (England) has equipped 220 liners,
tankers and tramps with libraries. Accord-
ing to the secretary: “Novels were most
read ; next books of exploration and travel.
Dickens and Scott were in steady demand.
The most popular authors were lan Hay,
“Sapper,” Jeffrey Farnol, W. W. Jacobs,
Rafael Sabatini, P. G. Wodehouse and H. G.
Wells.” The librarian of Wesley College
(Melb.) has a note in the school Chronicle:
“Sabatini, P. C. Wren, ‘Sapper’ and Edgar
Wallace seem to be the most popular living
authors, although Buchan is often read....
Of earlier novels, Scott, Dickens, Thackeray
and Whyte-Melville are most freely read.. ..
A few boys read Kipling, but very few.”
It would seem that there is little diversity
in the literary tastes of the Liverpool trim-
mer, the Australian schoolboy—and most
of us! " .


Lfc
Cuticura
Preparations
Unexcelled in purity, they are
regarded by millions as unrivaled
in the promotion of skin and hair
health. The purifying, antiseptic,
pore-cleansing properties of Cuti-
cura Soap invigorate and preserve
the skin; the Ointment soothes
and heals rashes and eruptions.
The freely-lathering Shaving Stick
causes no irritation but leaves the
skin fresh and smooth. The Talcum
is fragrant and refreshing.
Soap Is., Talcum 15. 3 d., Ointment Is.and
2s. For sample Soap and Ointment .ad-
dress; *‘R.Towns & Co., Sydney, N.S.W.”
Cuticura Shaving Stick Is. 6d.
men
tool
From getting “mixed up”
in the wash, by having
every article
Marked with
Ca*m&rn£f
Any Name woven in Fast Color
"A few stitches and they’re on '
D 5 Evans
Actual Size Style No 2
SOLD BY ALL BEST DRAPERS
Prices:
1 Z doz. 716, 6 doz. 5/-, 3 doz. 3/6 j
Write for Pattern Sheet to
J. &J. CASH Pty. Ltd.
85 Cubitt Streets
Richmond. Melb.
BIRKIYRE'S CLOTH
Regd. Trade-mark.
The best waterproof for motor-car
hoods, tarpaulins, horse and cow
rugs, etc. Canvas of all kinds, cot-
ton ducks and hessians, seaming,
bagging and shop twine.
Fishing nets and yarn. Samples
and prices on application.
GOUROCK
HOPEWORK
EXPORT CO.
LTD.
379 Kent Street, Sydney.
Charlotte Street, Brisbane, Q.
460 Flinders Street, Melbourne, Vic.
“THE WOMAN’S MIRROR,”
PRICE w .. Bd.
Contains everything a woman needs tt know.
k
' . k
?ig
*«*• rn ’,
\®r 1
m
m
m
1
i
mm
YOUR WID.TE.tw.
the difficulty in fitting footwear.
With this Abbey Shoe, comfort is
certain. It is made in half-sizes
each in three widths, narrow,
medium and wide.
32j6 per pair!
The broadly-welted sole is almost
double the usual thickness. The shoe
is finished in tan willow calf or black
box calf—lined with canvas and soft
leather.
Order by Post . Specify
width required. You will find this
shoe comfortable from the first time
on.
ABBEY
313 George St., & 224 Pitt St., Sydney.
L 25.
LOCR C»»P PaT MOI6IC/»6
Wonderful "Lock-Grip" Wire sTrainer^
WHk lb
P CPutGAN
Simple, Pfrfcertul, Rapid
TIME, MONEYjftfND ENERGY SAVED
Here is a tool thM absolutely vgWipses anything
invented t'oaWhe straining of fencing wares
it/gJveSi,tj<furs on a Joins,
'ith the utyndst ease Itfl
(irated light oCtrffy fencing
I the }£ nsl cannot slap
WeigJ*s>6Wly 41b., mtpqjyt&'li inches. It can
beyarned in yet it will pull your
motor-car out of /f7bog
Get one and testvK —there's no risk Failure
breakage impossible. Thousands sold—
e\ eryone delighted.
Price 30/- each. Victorian postage, 1/6.
Interstate, 2/8 (plus exchange)
Obtainable everywhere, or write the Agents -
3,10 HEN SONS & CO PTY., LTD
Hardware Merchants,
262 Queen Street, MELBOURNE
M ETAL CEI LI NCS
ike certain that your
.tilings will be attractive
and in good taste—instal
Wunderlich Art Metal
Ceilings. The wide range of
beautiful designs will appeal to
you prices will suit your purse
results will afford permanent
satisfaction. Inspect the popular
patterns stocked by your
local supplier of building
materials.
WUNDERLICH LTD.
Baptist St., Redfern,
Sydney.
Write to-day for
Catalogue, M. 27
1
Ki
Q
VARIOUS VERSE
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Courage.
The unforgiving steel in triumph here
Has ravished all the glory of the tree,
Murdered the spreading strength of the green
sphere
That grew in wind and sun serene and
free.
Gone is the gallant livery of the boughs,
The tracery of its leaves against the sky;
But pride, not sorrow, must its fate arouse,
For, massacred so, it knows not how to
die.
From the all-Mother Earth’s unfailing breast
Its roots still drink, and from them rises
still
The invincible sap, bringing a healing zest
To feed the fragment’s yet unconquered
will!
Around its wounds, oh see how delicate grows
A fringe ,of shoots, as hopeful and as
bright
As ever from the happiest sapling rose,
And knew not fire’s red wrath nor axe’s
bite.
They cannot know, they never learn, but we!
What dreams appal the onward-stretching
.gaze—
That we have seen our last felicity,
That all the golds will sadden into greys.
Oh, to be happy in forgetfulness,
Tasting the yet untainted moment’s bliss,
Lareless of what will follow the caress,
Not curious of the motive of th e kiss !
But shall the soul of man, of seed divine,
The obligations of its birth evade?
We may remember, but must not repine;
Though we foresee we must not be afraid.
N.S.W.
R. G. HENDERSON.
The Quest.
No matter with what eagle sight
We pierce the deeps where planets are,
There is in distances of night
A star beyond a star.
And whatsoever flame we feed
'With unctuous sacrificial fare
Of rams or goats that bleat and bleed
Till hushed in death by pray’r,
There is one altar on a mount
All other hills and heights above
Where at an all-absolving fount
Presides the priestess, Love.
There is a song in every tongue
That may remain for ages hid,
Like those love-lyrics still unsung
Of Sphinx and pyramid.
There is a vein of gold apart
By igneous armor overlaid
Within old Eldorado’s heart
That never was assayed.
And always in the wood untrod
There blooms an orchid moon-beguiled
To beauty that might tempt a god
To pluck it for his child.
Let us alone who sift the Dark
And weigh the Dawn and glean the vale
For the song-lustre of the lark
And the rapt nightingale.
When the good knight has found the Grail
And drunk from it, shall he seek rest?
Give me great dreams, though I may fail
Of capture in the quest!
The Star, the Altar and the Goal
Long-sought, and the elusive song,
These do not daunt the daring soul
By keen pursuit made strong.
And whatsoever way I ride
I make my inn at evenfall
To stable my winged steed beside
The young god in the stall.
MAORILAND.
DARIUS.
Air.
Men said: “At the earth-core is gold. Our
bleeding hands are weak;
Our breaking tools make slow the task; the
wealth is far to seek.”
They harnessed air to throbbing drill, they
bore at earth to rend
Its plundered treasures whence they clung,
and there was gold to spend.
The roads of earth and sea are wide, and
many go thereby,
But who have need of haste may take the
swift ways of the sky;
They find the air a highway broad, and men
and mails go forth
A thousand miles ere day is done, east, west,
or south, or north.
Men said: “So slow the written word, the
cables bear so small
A portion of our winging thought, the air
may bear it all.”
They wrenched a secret out of space till
circling words went round
The girdled earth with speed of thought. On re
more the air was bound.
A hundred ways the air must serve, a hundred
burdens bear.
To give to men an hour of ease, in this the
Age of Air;
But though they pay as pioneers for everv
gift they win.
The air has secret places yet men have not
entered in.
WESTRALIA.
ETHEL DAVIES.
Amarylla Rosa.
Oh, I am sick of your sweet perfumes
That you bring to my sweet boudoir!
Oil, I am sick of my silk-soft sheets,
And I will to them no more !
There is a smelling of slaughtered grass
And an itch in the white and rose
Of those little hucksters, one-time brown,
Merry and madcap toes.
Luxury-tired, they long, to dance,
Wind-whither, and forlorn
as the blackbirds’ song in the low white rain,
As the cry of the gipsy-born.
Heigho hi! I am going hence!
Heigho ! heigho ! hey dee !
Heigho hi! I am going far
To lose me a fine ladye!
(Sweet, sweet, sweet, I have loved too long!
Sweet, sweet, sweet, I am prisoned!
Hey for the mountains wild as the world,
And an old dame wild and wizened!)
Heart, we are sick for the morning call
That .Tack o’ the Mountain trills,
For briar and smoke, and the fairy milk
Drawn from the breasts of the hills.
Heart, we are sick for the blue breast-milk.
And the swift sleep under the bough—
Wailing wind....and wild dog’s cry....
And fear-sweat on the brow!
Heigho hi! I am going hence!
Heigho ! heigho ! hey dee !
Heigho hi! I am going far,
And I am as gay can be !
And you! you must follow as best you may,
Ragged and all foot-sore;
Love’s token, a flower you plucked by the
way—-
And quick, fool, open the door!
QUEENSLAND.
LLYWELYN LUCAS.
Sonnet for Elizabeth.
Beauty lias come to us from other days
Storied and strange, in triumph and in
tears,
Cloaked in sweet quiet, clad in glory’s blaze,
A-down the viewless path of travelled
years.
Old lovers gazed upon it, felt Love’s sun
Burn into brightness, saw the white steel
fall
And unremembering slept, their bodies one
With mould and dust, their names a clarion
call.
Now is your own dear beauty to the world
A voice uplifted and a trumpet blown,
A silken splendor never idly furled
Or listless in Life’s airs, a tome of truth
For the faint earth, oh wondrous to have
known
Beauty in you and you in beauty’s youth!
MAORILAND.
Quentin Pope.
Citizenship.
If I were free to journey
With nought to say me nay.
A grassy track and ferny
I'd take at break of day;
A swag upon my shoulder.
And bracken to my knees,
I’d be a morning stroller
Among dew-dropping trees.
Ere yet the sun had risen,
Eight-footed as the wind —
Like one escaped from prison—■
I’d leave the town behind ;
Like one with soul unfettered.
Like one no more gaol-walled,
I’d follow, follow, follow
Wherever Freedom called.
Winged things about me waking
Would give my spirit wings;
Some bird his plumage shaking
Before he up and sings,
Ere yet with dew-wet feathers
He warbles loud or low,
Would teach me they sing sweetest
Who care-unburthened go.
With every leaf a dancer
By morning zephyrs stirred,
My soul his song would answer
As though, like him, a bird,
It felt nor care nor sorrow
And knew not man-made wrong,
But only lived to capture
The joy of tearless song.
The summer sun, slow rising,
With glory would o’erwhelm
The way I trod, surprising
With dazzling gifts his realm —
With pearls would deck his blossoms,
His fronds with ruby gems.
And crown his oaks and ashes
With shining diadems.
If I were free to journey
With none to say me nay,
A grassy track and ferny
I’d take at break of day;
There, there I would be given,
’Mid scents and melodies,
The freedom of a city
Whose citizens are trees.
N.s.w.
RODERIC QUINN.


t I
I
I
I
1
Yu
mm mi
m
I
■
m I ■
mm.
mm
: i,.y
■H
5
1 1
;
■
m
■ M :
■
: 1
rf.*..... .'J
' '
■ V Y '•'
■*:
HCiN,
I
U ;T
a
l
IRVING STREET, SYDNEY.
CONSTRUCTED FOR-SYDNEY CITY COUNCIL
ENGINEER—E. W. COULSON, ESQ.
NATURE OF OLD SURFACE—Water-bound Macadam.
NATURE OF NEW SURFACE—Concrete reinforced with B.R.C. Fabric.
DATE OF CONSTRUCTION—I 927.
Road
Modern concrete roads reinforced with B.R.C. Fabric
withstand all the stresses imposed by heavy traffic,
and they give a length of service surprisingly free
from maintenance costs and far beyond the term of
life of roads not so reinforced.
B.R.C. Fabric ensures correct distribution of steel in
the concrete, gives perfect continuity, and reduces
labor costs to a minimum.
Used extensively and constantly by experienced road
engineers in every quarter of the world.
Australian Reinforced Concrete Engineering Co. Pty., Ltd.,
Consulting and Designing Engineers,
Normanby Chambers, 430 Little Collins Street, Melbourne.
Phone: Cent. 8861. Works: Sunshine, Victoria.
Sole Distributing Agents:
VICTORIA Gollin & Co. Pty., Ltd., Melbourne.
NEW SOUTH WALES . . J. Wildridge & Sinclair, Ltd., Sydney.
QUEENSLAND J. Wildridge & Sinclair (Brisbane), Ltd.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA . . Elder, Smith & Co., Ltd., Adelaide.
WESTERN AUSTRALIA Elder, Smith & Co., Ltd., Perth.
TASMANIA Hume Pipe Company (Aust.), Ltd., Hobart.
NEW ZEALAND A. C. Gillies & Laird, Wellington.
rrrrrrrrTrrrrrrrrrr
crrrrrrrrrrrrrnre
rrrrrrrrrrnTrrrnTi
rrrrrrmrrnrm
BF


V 3
&
ftftft
J
m
ft
' ■ -; ft" :
i *1
m
■‘. • .. . ■.-.•■■•
■
ilfijf
„
M
m
! ftS
■ m -
»
■
■
i
:
;;
■
m
m
■'ft ft
.7:
::?■
;>■
ft
ftftft
i
:
v:, . v : : ':
■
■
■
:
ft^ft
ft'
I:
■
mm
■
r
•-
-
■Hi
: ft’ ft
■ft-
Our registered Great Western
Sparkling Wine label has been
shamefully copied. We warn the
public against spurious imitations.
0
sm


The Bulletin
Yol. 48—No. 2471.
June 23, 1927.
YES, Darling, I Got ENOuoh for the Bassinet inhen I 6orroweo
The moms-/ FOR THe doctor and Nurse '*
" Order patent fooo?'
"CERTAINLY, OOR CREDITS GOOO V TME 'SNT {X $ "
*• My husband asked fab to (arrange
An Account v<hth You for clothes
For the uttle Boy "
" Hovm (about the FEES? Vslill YOU TAKE AN 1,0,0.
OR \NAIT UNTIL \ &ORROv>( THE MONEY ? 11
J 1 L r /
y | M Horrahl Vou START UEARN'nc,
VOUR TRADE TOMORROVSI , Boy )
Your <3ooo father has floated a loan To pay
FOR YOUR ARTICLES J 1 /y^
v How, MV Qoy ; IHAVE REARED YOU ( AND GWEN „
*Jp 0 A ftOPD AND yoU'JE STARTED IN U'FS -
"... I«
XnD HERE'S the IO.U» VOULL HAYE TO SQUARE OF* TO PaY FOR IT
GIVING HIM A GOOD START.


The Bulletin
THE NATIONAL AUSTRALIAN NEWSPAPER
“Australia for the White Man.”
Printed and published by William Macleod, ot
Musgrave and McLeod Streets, Mosman, tor ,1,
Bulletin Newspaper Co., Ltd., at the Othce ot tne
Co., 214 George Street, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia.
Melbourne Office: 154-162 Flinders Street.
London Office: No. 1 Wardour Street (near Picca-
dilly Circus), W.l.
PUBLISHED ONCE A WEEK.
TERMS TO SUBSCRIBERS
(In Advance only).
Posted to any address in Australasia, weekly.
12 months, £1 is.; 6 mouths, 12s. 6d.; S months, is.
To any address Overseas: 12 months, Al LUS. ; o
months, lus. 6d.; 3 months, Bs.
Cheques, drafts, etc., which should be crossed, aiia
all Business Communications to be addressed to the
Manager.
Special Notice.
Ail correspondence to be addressed to Box 2521 8.8.,
G.P.0., Sydney. .
Insufficiently stamped letters are liable to oe
contents of this paper are copyright by the
publishers. The right to reproduce or translate any
part of the contents of this number is hereby expressly
reserved by the publishers.
The Editor will carefully read and, where practic-
able, acknowledge in the “Correspondence column
all contributions submitted, whether in the /orj»
Political, Social or other Articles, Verse, Short lales
or Sketches (those dealing with Australian subjects
and not exceeding two columns in length, or, say,
3000 words, are specially acceptable), Paragraphs,
Letters or Newspaper Clippings. All communications
will be regarded as strictly confidential.
Tiie Bulletin will return all unsuitable MS. when
the address is specified and stamps are enclosed. But
no MS. will be returned or preserved unless these
conditions are observed. When MS. is forwarded
without stamps for return it will be understood that
the copy is to be destroyed if not acceptable. I er-
sonal applications for return of MS. cannot receive
attention. Further, The Bulletin desires those
sending MS. to distinctly understand that it is not
responsible for the preservation or transmission of Mb.
To Amateurs in Black and White.
Anyone supplying to Tiie Bulletin original
humorous or other topical drawings in line or wash,
of sufficient merit and interest and adapted for
direct reproduction, or any interesting photograph
illustrative of a current event will be paid for same
on acceptance. Any picture containing a good idea
but unfitted for direct reproduction — i.e., any picture
which has to be re-drawn —will be paid for as a
suggestion only. The conditions under which such
artistic contributions will be received are those
applying to M.S.
To Travellers Abroad.
“The Bulletin’s” representative in London is
L. St. C. Grondona. No. 1 Wardour Street
(near Piccadilly Circus), W.l. Copies of
“The Bulletin” can be obtained from him or
the bookstall in tiie Main Hall at Australia
House. Also from Messrs. Gordon and Gotch, 15-
19 Vairingdon Street, London, E.C.I/.; and IP. Daw-
son and Sons, Cannon House, Breams Buildings,
London, F.C.J,.; E. T. Hole, Uolertli Satire Ser-
vice, 1/6 Fleet Street, London E.C.; “The British
Australian and New Zealander,” J/11/-11 Australia
House, Strand, London, 1 V.C.2; F. Algar, 58 Grace-
church Street, London, EC.3.
South Africa. —The Central News Agency, Cape-
town, Durban and Johannesburg; Dawson and Son,
Capetown and Johannesburg; Havana House, Durban;
Rhodesia News Agency, Salisbury; Benoni News
Agency, Benoni; Handel House, Kimberley; and
others.
Canada. — G. S. Forsyth and Co., HI Hastings
Street, Vancouver, B.C.
U.S.A. — Chicago: J. Roland Kay Co., 161 Fast
Erie Street, N. Michigan Boulevarde; Post Office
News Co., 33 J Vest Monroe Street, Chicago. New
York: Brentano’s. sth Avenue and 21th Street, New
York City; Schultz News Agency. S.E. Corner 6th
Avenue and JjZnd Street, New York City; llotaling’s
News Agency, 203 West l/Ist Street, New York City.
Washington: Liberty News Co., Seattle, Washington;
Wheatley News C0.,101, Market Street, San Francisco;
Wallace, The New Orleans News Man, 105 Royal
Street, New Orleans. La.; The Wide World News Stand,
O'/th South Main Street, Los Angeles, Cal.
Egypt. — Jacques, Horn and Co., the Colonial
Book and Neivs Stores. Port Said, Egypt.
Hong Kong. —Brewer and Co., (i%' Pedder Street,
Hung Kong.
China. —Brewer and Co., 31 Nanking Road.
Shanghai, China.
Penang, F.M.S. — IC. Abdul Rahman, Bookstall,
Eastern and Oriental Hotel.
Ceylon. — T. L. De Silva, 30 Chatham Street,
Colombo.
Papua. —Whitten Bros., Samarai and Port Moresby.
Fiji. — A. Barker. Suva; Harry Gardiner, Metropole
Hairdressing Saloon, Suva.
Overseas Advertising: Representatives.
London. — L. St. C. Grondona, No. 1 Wardour
Street (near Piccadilly Circus), W. 1.; Gordon and
Gotch, 15-19 Farringdon Street, London, E.C.I/.
U.S.A.— J. Roland Kay Co., 161 East Erie Street,
N. Michigan Boulevarde, Chicago.
Postage Rates.
Single copies of The Bulletin (registered as a
newspaper) :—Commonicealth, New Zealand and Fiji:
10oz., Id. United Kingdom: 1/oz. to 10oz., lid.; each
additional J/oz., Id. All Sea Route: 160 z.. lid.
British Possessions and U.S.A.: 1/oz. or part thereof,
Id. Elsewhere, 20z., Id.
tSuT^ulZeizyi.
THURSDAY, JUNE 23, 1927.
“HAMLET” WITHOUT THE GHOST.
Having got his valuable collection of State
Premiers together the Prime Minister pre-
sented to it his honest and well-meant but
not very efficient scheme for straightening
out the tangle of State and Federal finance.
Its leading features are:—
(1) The Commonwealth is to take charge
of the State debts as they stand at the end
of this month (June, 1927). The amount
is expected to be approximately £678,000,000,
or £657.000,000 when present sinking-funds
are deducted. This is £35,000,000 increase
in 12 months, so it has been an active year.
The Commonwealth assumes £11,000.000 of
debt in settlement for post-offices and other
properties which it took over when Federa-
tion began.
(2 ) As regards the remaining £646,000,000
the Commonwealth is to pay out of its own
Federal pocket £7,584,912 interest annually.
It is also to pay the rest of the interest
and collect from the States to the best of
its ability. Whether it will have consistent
good luck or not will appear later if oppor-
tunity offers. The £7,584,912 is reckoned as
a counter-balance to the per capita dole of
255. per head, which ceases.
(3) In a helpful spirit the Commonwealth
is to pay out or its own resources 2s. (id.
per £lOO annually to a sinking-fund on the
old debts taken over. In doing so it will
make the States a gift of over £BOO,OOO per
annum for a long term of years. This
liberal offer is conditional on the States pay-
ing ss. per £lOO annually into the same fund.
(4) The creation of new State debts,
through the Loan Council, with the Com-
monwealth’s name on the back of the bills,
is assumed as a matter of course. The
Commonwealth is to pay ss. per £lOO per'
annum into a sinking-fund against all new
debts, and the debtor States are to provide
an equal amount. It is a handsome offer,
and may make the States hurry up with
their new debts so as to get their full share
of the benefit.
Unfortunately it has been decided that,
owing to the complications about State
sinking-fund contributions and other mat-
ters, a referendum and a change in the Con-
stitution will be necessary—unfortunately,
because Australia has poor luck in the refer-
endum line. The law allows for a plain
taking over of the State debts, but not for
the same thing with frills. Still, the Bruce-
Page Government’s proposals are honest
and liberal, even if they don’t commend
themselves to the incurable Nark at Syd-
ney, and even though they leave the pro-
blem of duplicate taxation to a future day.
The play, in short, is about as good as
“Hamlet” can be with the Ghost left out.
And the problem of getting in the Ghost is
very large—in fact, enormous.
It is assumed for purposes of argument
that the States will pay the interest and
sinking-fund contributions on their old
debts and also on their new debts to the
responsible parent Government regularly
and in full. It is also assumed, though it
is a large assumption, that they will pay
out of actual revenue, and not fall into
the customary condition of deficit and borrow
the money. The Federal authority, having
collected their solvent cheques, and planted
them in a bank where it can turn them into
its own paper money (its promise to pay
itself in gold), will have made some pro-
gress, but not much. It will have the means
with which to meet local obligations, but
as regards obligations in London and New
York, and possibly some few in Amsterdam,
it will be, unless it can make a stupendous
change in existing conditions, in the father
of a hole-—the one which it and all the
States occupy now, but with, additions and
enlargement. Its responsibilities will be:—
Interest and sinking fund on its own ex-
ternal debts. It is suspected of failing, in
part at least, to meet these now except out
of new borrowings.
Interest and sinking fund (its own 2s. 6d.
per £lOO annually and the States’ 55.) on
the States’ old external debts. It is no
secret that the States fail to pay interest
alone except out of new borrowings.
Interest and sinking fund (its own ss.
per £lOO annually and the States’ 55.) on
any new external liabilities that the States
may contract, and which they will contract
unless kept off the foreign money market
with a club.
Provided the present scheme, or one resemb-
ling it, is adopted, these and a few more
are the items which the Commonwealth will
promise to pay, either out of the surplus of
exports over imports or by the crooked
device of raising more loans abroad, and
probably bigger ones than in the past. As
there is no reliable surplus of exports, and
seldom even an unreliable one, the over-
whelming problem is that of somehow mak-
ing and selling much more and buying much
less. Whether the financial arrangements
are put on a new footing, which is desirable,
or left on the old one, which isn’t, makes no
difference to this particular and overwhelm-
ing conundrum. If Bruce and his political
pal have some subsidiary and adequate plan
for supplying the missing Ghost, they de-
serve well of their country, and the world is
full of promise.
OUR PACIFIC RELATIONS.
Periodically the Institute of Pacific Rela-
tions holds conferences in summery Hono-
lulu. Cultured Australian professors of
science meet equally cultured professors
from Japan, China, Siam and Manila, and
are delighted to find that they can discuss
the Einstein theory with them on terms of
perfect equality. Enchanted at this dis-
covery, they return to tell their fellow-
countrymen that their belief in their own
superiority over Asiatics is based on ignor-
ance and that the more they get to know
them the better they will like them.
The other day the Melbourne branch of
the institute made a painful discovery. It
broadcasted to radio listeners a question-
naire aimed at ascertaining what the people
really felt about the White Australia policy.
What surprised the institute was that a
large majority thought the policy was based
on racial objections and not on economic
ones. What was found still more surprising
was that those who had come in personal
contact with mixed unions, or had lived in
Asiatic countries, objected most of all. This
was in the nature of a body-blow for the
institute, which bases its activities on the
assumption that the closer the white and
the sun-tanned come into contact the faster
the two will fly into each other’s arms.
For some 400 years a section of
the British people, mainly drawn from
the ruling caste, has been in far closer con-
tact with Oriental races than the members
of the Institute of Pacific Relations. Has
it led to a better understanding? At pre-
sent every vessel returning from China is
packed with white traders driven from their
businesses by their Celestial acquaintances.
Go to Singapore, Penang, Bangkok or
Manila. Do you find white men living in
relations of amiable intimacy with their
Asiatic hosts? You find the community
split into three rigid castes. The white
man, the native and their chance by-product,
the half-caste, all live mutually aloof. They
have been living thus since D’Albuquerque
disturbed the echoes of Malacca with his
guns. An attempt recently of the Indian
Government to bring white officials and
native men and women together at garden-
parties was a lamentable failure. The
unwritten law is observed as strictly in little
settlements like Sandakan in Borneo as in
cosmopolitan marts like Bombay.
Portugal, being a small nation which could
ill afford to police half the Asiatic world,
allowed the walls of caste to be broken
down, and her empire disappeared. Holland,
another inadequate country for the job it
has taken on, is trying the same experiment,
but is already beginning to bitterly regret
it. Its recent troubles with its East Indian
subjects have not been reassuring.
But the theory sponsored by the Pacific
Institute receives its most emphatic contra-
diction in the religious field. Christian mis-
sionaries have been coming in contact with
their Asiatic brethren for upwards of 800
years. They have poured out untold bene-
factions of a material nature on their
Oriental hosts. They have built schools and
hospitals, and of late years American organi-
sations have spent millions of dollars
annually in furthering the ideals the Pacific
Institute stands for. Has all this led to a
better understanding? To-day the men of
God are fleeing for their lives to the
nearest foreign gunboat. Their schools and
hospitals have been seized by their Chinese
converts, and a native Christian church with
a slant-eyed bishop in command is in pro-
cess of consolidation on the ruins.
The moral—if it is a moral—seems to be
that the less the white man and the Asiatic
see of one another the better they get on
together. It is when idealists, lay and cleri-
cal, attempt to mix them in a test-tube that
the explosions occur.
FENG-SHUI.
PLAIN ENGLISH.
Making Things Right at the Pawnshop.
After months of cogitation the Bruce-
Pages have got their loan-control scheme
into a very simple form. Per capita pay-
ments to the States are to cease, and in
their place a sum equivalent to them at the
latest valuation is to be used by the Com-
monwealth to pay a third of a sinking fund
contribution of | per cent, on existing State
loans, the States finding the other j per
cent. New loans, which are to be adjudi-
cated upon by a Loan Council in which the
Commonwealth has three votes and the
States one each, are to be repaid by a V
per cent, sinking fund, the Commonwealth
and the State concerned contributing each
-j- per cent. State loans raised specifically
to recoup a deficit must be backed by a
5 per cent, sinking fund that has to be
produced entirely by the defaulting_ State.
Defence loans are outside the ambit.
The impetus, of course, has come from
without. Within the last two or three years
English economists have been questioning
the security that lies behind “colonial” loan
flotations, and J. M. Keynes, the man who
made his reputation in international financial
conferences, was unkind enough to suggest
that unless Australia and other needy rela-
tions of J. Bull waded in with some show
of determination to pay their debts, their
scrip should be removed from the list of
securities in which trustees are allowed by
law to invest. Hence the formation of .the
Federal Loan Council and the long-sustained
attempt to find some sinking fund formula
and some basis for future loan control that
should be satisfactory both to the States
and to the Common'wealth.
Everyone, even Lang, admits that Cohen
ought to be conciliated to the extent of a
sinking fund, but central control of borrow-
ing isn’t very palatable to any State politi-
cian. The need for taking some less tarnished
security to the pawnshop than the old thing
that has hitherto done duty gets more
pressing, however. The latest Bruce-Page
scheme, though it isn’t entirely equitable,
or complete, can’t be thrown out on
that account alone, because apparently it
is beyond the wit of man to devise a scheme
that would be. It does provide for loan re-
payments; it does, by insisting on sinking
funds and reasonable loan conditions, im-
pose a check on the sort of State Treasurer
that has made Cohen put on the screw; and
it does put at least a punctuation mark in
the progress towards bankruptcy and repudi-
ation. Maoriland acquired the sinking fund
habit under Ward, and though its system
has been lately changed—not for the better
as some think—the provision reads well on
prospectuses and the small Dominion gets
better terms than any Australian State can.
The moral is fairly obvious. Australia’s
creditors are putting in the nippers—very
gently as yet, but not the less pointedly—
and unless there is an effort to regain, the
respect of Cohen it is going to be harder
and harder to get money out of that astute
old gentleman. That is the hard-tacks
argument in favor of Australia being very
brave and noble and self-sacrificing, and
it is likely to prevail.
Some Superfluous Occupations.
Victoria has some 1800 ill-paid policemen,
and on an average 125 of them are said to
be exclusively occupied in the execution of
distress warrants, thus providing 125 extra
chances for the burglar and the thug to
get away. Most of this degrading business
arises out of the cash-order disease. Even
in comparatively well-off Hawthorn it is
reported that 600 seizures of the domestic
sticks arising out of the cash-order trade
are a year’s average, while only 400 are due
to all other causes. In poorer suburbs the
position is naturally worse. The police
demand to be released from this noxious
duty, which makes them a hated fraternity
and a mark for flying bottles.
Four good and noble deeds are waiting
to be done by any Government which can
get sufficiently out of the groove or furrow
to raise the top of its hat above the level
of the surrounding country. They arc:—
(1) To make the hawking of shares from
door to door a crime (this has been done, or
is being done, in England), and also the
hawking of allotments.
(2) To make unpaid instalments on time-
payment allotments irrecoverable. If the
victim loses the land and the bit of money he
has already paid on it he has lost enough,
and generally a great deal too much. And
as the vendor would probably sell the same
allotment to a series of victims lie might still
get too much.
(8) To make the “coupon” business illegal.
(4) To make cash-order debts irrecover-
able as already suggested.
These reforms would simplify life, which is
an altogether too complicated business, and
would tend to divert a great deal of wasted
energy into productive lines of industry,
barring that part of it which took to plain,
unvarnished crime. Thus two birds would
be killed with one stone, and a double
blessing conferred, on humanity.
4
The Curse of the Casual.
Strikes of sugar-workers and watersiders arc
again holding up North Queensland. Both
are supposed to be working under Arbitra-
tion awards; in both cases the awards have
been accepted by the unions concerned, but
not by the members of the union; and in
each case the union has shown itself unable
or unwilling to discipline its members. The
Cairns branch of the Watersiders’ Federa-
tion has been by schisms rent asunder and
heresies distressed, and, each faction having
called the other “scabs” and “black,” no
self-respecting class-conscious wharfie can
shoulder a sack. The employers haven't
done anything to annoy any faction, but
that doesn’t matter. Work in the port is
stopped, though a learned Judge with a
big wig has shaken his linger at the union
officials and warned them that unless the
men go back to work he will have to think
very seriously of taking steps to do some-
thing to make them mend their ways. The
sugar-workers have invented a new sort of
strike, too. The single men—who, of course,
are in the majority among such workers—
objected to a mill manager giving preference
to married men. The Judge with the big
wig said the manager had a perfect right to
give such a preference if he felt like it, and
that to take umbrage at it was very naughty
of the union. Whereupon, of course, nothing
happened as usual.
The only practical moral that can be
drawn from such misadventures is that
casual labor of the drifter type is usually
more of a nuisance than a blessing, and
that in a well-ordered democracy there
would be very little of such labor.
Sugar-mill work is seasonal, and waterside
work is intermittent: but in both cases it
ought not to be beyond the bounds of possi-
bility to put the labor on a more permanent
basis. There is a lot of work to be done
about a port all the year round, but a good
deal of it could wait, when there is a rush
of cargo-shifting on hand. The notion of
making Harbor Boards the employers, and
creating a staff of permanents that would do
all the work of the port, was discussed very
seriously in Maoriland after the 1913 strike,
and everybody agreed that the idea was a
good one. But M.L. is run by a Government
that-doesn’t give a hoot for the Labor vote,
and the watersiders were so peaceful after
their first tussle with the Masseyites, which
ended in the virtual declaration of martial
law, that the notion of reforming the casual
out of existence just petered out.
In Australia it is different, but here the
main obstacle in the way of a better arrange-
ment is political. Casual laborers have so
many virtues in the eyes of Labor bosses—
they vote solid, they make a lot of trouble
with employers (detested people!) and they
can be poured into an electorate whenever
votes are needed—that they are not likely
to be eliminated under Labor rule of the
present brand. But when the downtrodden
worker gets tired of chasing the cost of
living with a basic wage, paying union
bosses to find reasons why he shouldn’t
work or shouldn’t work hard, and demands
something tangible for his sub., then there
may be some constructive thinking done.
4
An Alleged Republic Runs Amok.
It is customary to speak of the Soviet as
if it were all Russia ; yet the extent of the
authority it wields is very uncertain. The
people, acting under supervision, elect
Soviets all over the place; these create the
big Soviet or Congress ol Soviets, and out
of this ponderous body emerges somehow
the Central Executive Committee of 386
members which in one way or another pro-
duces the dozen “Commissaries” who really
count, whether the other bodies do or not.
The electors, who are the raw material


which goes into the machine at one end,
are to the number of perhaps 99 per cent.,
not Communists, for the latter constitute a
very exclusive ruling class to which admis-
sion is gained with difficulty; but the
finished product which comes out at the
other end of the electoral apparatus is Com-
munist to a man, or nearly so.
How the head of the State arrives at his
headship is not clear, but if it was a regular
matter of popular election the world would
probably hear about it. The Cheka, which
is generally understood to be the court
that attends to horrible tortures and
wholesale executions in political matters,
has been described as an institution that
acts according to rules and regulations
“which have not yet been published.” If
they don’t exist, and the court simply gets
worse as it goes along, the non-publication
is understandable. Remonstrances from
abroad about the lavish slaying of foreigners
and others in the course of the mix-up
which followed on the petty tragedy at
Warsaw have at last elicited some infor-
mation. It has been explained that “the
Soviet code permits the putting to death
of people without trial on the order of the
police.” Now it would be interesting to
know who orders the police and points out
the right people to be put to death. Obvi-
ously the police, if they had a free hand,
might hang a Soviet by mistake. It was
further made clear that if a stranger goes
to Russia, or happened to be there when
the New Chaos began and has been unable
to get away, the protection of his own
Government will avail him nothing, and
any old thing may happen to him at any
time without apology.
One explanation of it all may be that the
Russian civilisation was never very securely
gummed on. and that 10 years of Sovietism
may have just about finished the process of
scraping it off. The secession of various
of the old empire’s western provinces meant
that much of the best class of population
left, while the bear and wolf element re-
mained. The case may present some slight
resemblance to that of the Arab-Moor folk
who assimilated some Roman-Greek learn-
ing and culture, passed for quite a while in
south-western Europe as a highly improved
community and then suffered a relapse.
It is possible that things have been hap-
pening, in addition to and apart from the
defunct ambassador at Warsaw, to put a
fear into the exclusive Communist oligarchy.
If the Central Executive is seeing red
it may be because it is feeling blue. It has
adopted strong-arm methods in Italy, Hun-
gary, Poland and China with discouraging
results, though Poland was the only place
where it tried out its army against an enemy
even one-sixth its own size. The conse-
quence was loss of territory as well as
“face.” It finds a difficulty in making new
friends except perhaps along the waterside
at some Australian ports. And the spectre
of poverty roosts pretty consistently on the
frostbitten doorstep. The new Government
began ten years ago with- a clean receipt
for all the country’s debts (signed by itself)
and with all the country’s findable stock of
money (stolen by itself). Now its wail
for big credits and long credits makes a
discord throughout Europe.
♦
The Country Party in N. S. Wales.
If the rank and file of the Country party
movement had had any say in the matter,
they probably would have fought the com-
ing election under their own flag, instead of
entering into an alliance with one opponent
for the purpose of beating another. The
Labor split certainly favored the C.P., pre-
senting the best opportunity it has had of
increasing its voting power in Parliament.
Moderate Laborites would have given it
their second preferences, if not their first.
Now, and for evermore, unless the C.P. sec-
tion of the pact is very careful, a C.P. can-
didate will be branded as a Nationalist in
disguise.
All the same, one does not often meet a
C.P. man who has deserted to the Nats.
The only conspicuous case in N. S. Wales
is that of Walter Bennett, who took a
leading role in establishing “The Country
Party Association of Australia” in 1913. At
that time the Farmers and Settlers’ Associa-
tion was holding its annual conference. The
C. P. A. of A., just formed, was holding its
first conference, and building its political
platform. The F. and S. A. was then a non-
political party, though how it expected to
improve the farmers’ existence without a
solitary representative in Parliament only
the good Lord knows. Premier Wade, fear-
ing that a large section of the F. and S. A
would go over to the new party, attended .<
meeting of the former and promised them a
“Country party within the Liberal party.’"
Political history repeats itself, for now the
C.P. is on the way to become a party verv
much within the National party.
However, rightly or wrongly, the pact has
been made, and to defeat the Labor Govern-
ment. or what passes for a Government, it
must be abided by loyally. The greatest
danger lies in the fact that leaders of the
Nats.. who are so slow to learn the con-
ditions outside of the County of Cumber-
land. may try to force some of their trusty
old hacks upon country constituencies. If
they do it will imperil their chance of suc-
cess and please no one but the Reds. It
goes against the grain of the majority of
country men to vote for a Nationalist. To
•be small farmers he is only a trifle less
obnoxious than a Langite. To the graziers
be is the better of a bad choice. Let the
pact, be warned, then, that there are a great
many electors who, in spite of the politi-
cal chaos brought about by Lang, will not
go to the ballot-box if the choice lies only
between a Labor mail and a city Nationalist,
This is the vote that has to be considered.
It says: “If we have to vote for a Nation-
alist, he must be one of our own choice. His
interests must be identical with our own,
othenvise we are not represented at all in
the House.” If, in this respect, York-street
is not more tactful than it was at the last
election, it will fail—and deserve to fail.
•
*
Arbitration and Bruce’s Alternatives.
There is a split in the Labor half of the
delegation which the Bruce-Page Govern-
ment sent across the heaving foam to find
out how the United States is able to supply
itself with almost everything in the way of
manufactured goods, and has lots to export
and heaps of money to lend, while Aus-
tralia is a huge and persistent importer, and
goes all round the world begging for loans.
But as almost everything that goes by the
name of Labor is split now, the position
in that respect hardly calls for remark.
The Grayndler-Mclnnes section of
the party forestalled its own report by
stating, per a three-column cry in a Labor
paper, that the Australian arbitration sys-
tem is a brilliant success, that in conse-
quence peace and prosperity reign, and that
all things in the Australian industrial sphere
are going well. They added that the Prime
Minister is a thorough-paced reactionary.
Actually if there was material in his make-
up to deserve the epithet, he would pre-
pare a surprise for Grayndler by making
swift preparations to close the Arbitration
courts, and put the Federal Arbitration sys-
tem in the dust-box. To a great extent
it is there already. The other day it was
reported that four vessels were laid up in
Queensland alone, because four separate
crews had told the Arbitration authority
to go to perdition over four separate mat-
ters, and to take its decisions with it, As
the canecutters are in the same mood, and
many other bodies in the North are simi-
lar, and union officials who endeavor to
restore some measure of peace and order
are bidden to accompany the courts to the
place aforementioned, it looks as if Arbi-
tration is on the rocks.
The gentle Bruce has two courses open
to him. He must either get the craft off
the rocks or abandon it. He must, in plain
words, either make his courts’ decisions
carry some shred of respect or order his
courts to leave off giving decisions.
Are Our Lighthouses a Failure? -
Dear Bulletin,— The,majority of our ships
that have tried the overland route during
the last year or two have done so in the
sight of lighthouses. I speak of the east
coast, and particularly the Queensland coast,
where the Bombala, Montoro, Cooma (two
attempts), Riverina and Tasman have all
gone ashore in the vicinity of a light—in
some instances, apparently, to have tea with
the lightkeeper. Of all these ships, only the
Tasman can blame the light, or lack of it,
and even she probably received a wireless
warning beforehand that- the light was out.
The fault is not with the lights, nor.
strangely enough, with the lack of them,
but is rather due to a queer and unjusti-
fiable belief that a ship has a pair of eyes,
and. recognising each light in turn from
long acquaintance, knows the way past,
without human aid. Marine boards in
Australia seem also to believe firmly this
superstition, and blame an abnormal current
usually if the ship makes a slight error of
a mile or so the wrong way. In conjunction
with lights, directional wireless would be
valuable, especially on the more straight-
forward coasts from Brisbane to Fremantle;
but further north, where navigation in parts
is most intricate, and the only track twists
and turns like a politician, a light is a
much more tangible thing, and a new gen-
eration of seamen would need to arise before
sufficient faith -would be placed in an elec-
trical gadget in competition with the human
eve.
Multiply the existing number of lights
by five, and don’t trust to the ship to see
them, and you have the solution—Yours,
etc.. Timers.
—-
The Possibilities of Frozen Meat.
“Bourri”: I can give “Shorthorn” (B.
26/5/’27) two or three good reasons why we
shouldn’t try to capture the Continental
frozen-meat trade. The first is that we
already have as much of it as it pays us to
handle —in fact, more. Last year, out of
1.008,278 quarters exported from Australia.
534,499 went to the Continent. Our chief
customers were Italy, Belgium and Germany,
in that order. We can’t get much of the
French trade, as a preferential agreement
exists between that country and Argentina,
and the tariff barrier was raised last year.
However, the fact that none of our meat-
exporting companies thought the matter
worth airing—let alone protesting against
—shows the relative unimportance of the
trade.
And that brings us to the second reason ;
which is that it is a most unsatisfactory
business all round.
Apparently, on the figures, nearly 50 per
cent, of our beef, or roughly (at last year’s
rates) £1,000.000 worth, went to European
countries. In reality nothing of the kind
happened. That quantity was merely con-
signed to Europe—and the bulk of it prob-
ably finished up in one of the English
markets. Nearly eveiy consignment of
meat for Europe is marked “optional
London” —Liverpool, or some other British
entrepot—and much of it certainly ends up
in those ports. Currency troubles, indus-
trial unsettlements, anil the hundred and
one things which have beset Europe since
the war have reduced it to the level of a
very uncertain customer, and exporters have
to protect themselves against the too com-
mon experience of importers being unable
to take up their documents when the meat
arrives. Again, Germany will allow only a.
certain amount of meat to enter free of
tax. and restricts the supply of that quan-
tity to previous clients. Since this quota is
based upon supplies to hand, probable re-
quirements, and the previous year’s impor-
tations—it is reviewed every year at least-
exporters in this country have no certain
ground to walk on here.
Another point is that Argentina has a
special Continental line of lean, lightweight
beef, usually third-grade. Ours is too fat,
too heavy, too good. To go in for a
special grade of our own, we would need to
have a certain market for it in the regions
for which it was intended —we can’t send
England anything worse than we already
do; experts tell us that our best isn’t good
enough. Nor are we within a reasonable
distance, like South America, where they
can kill to order.
No. Our best chance is with chilled beef ,
top-quality stuff, sent to such Continental
ports as are within reasonable distance.
The demand is small, but is growing; the
Latin races are being educated in the use
of beef—mutton and lamb none of the
European nations import to any extent —
and in that education a progressive publicity
campaign would more than pay its way.
The Helplessness of Freetracle.
Freetrade is a poor, helpless creature. The
British coalminers struck for a continua-
tion of the Government subsidy, and, when
they resumed, a lot ol the export trade,
worth £72,000,00 a year, had fizzled out,
largely through the opening of new foreign
mines. In the struggle to 'regain it the
British started an underselling campaign,
mostly at the expense of their one-time
best customer, France. That country found
its own miners being put out of work, and
therefore intimated that no more coal would
be admitted except under license, adding
that for some very important purposes no
licenses would be granted.
The British attitude now is one of
entreaty that France will lift the partial
embargo even though its own people lose
their jobs and its own mines close. The
French attitude is that Britain could iqake
good its loss twice over by prohibiting a
lot of imports, Yankee goods for choice, and
using its own coal to manufacture them.
The British reply is that it can’t, for the
ghosts of Adam Smith and Cobden
wouldn’t stand it. To which the sensible
French rejoinder is practically “Damn Adam
Smith and Cobden.”
Keep Books!
When Josiah Moy Ling, of St, Kilda,
applied to the Melbourne Insolvency Court
for a certificate, Judge Moule shook his
head gravely. Moy Ling had launched into
the motor-hire business on borrowed capital.
Payment of heavy interest, a first-mortgagee
foreclosing, sickness in his family and other
worries had carried him into the court.
He was adjudged insolvent. Now he wanted
a clean sheet on which to write any new
financial ventures he might wish to make.
But he had not recorded his past trans-
actions, so the Judge could not see his way
to release him from payment of his old
debts. The policy in such cases had been
laid down by the High Court —an insolvent
who has not kept books must be punished
for it.
Book-keeping is becoming increasingly
important in the practical affairs of the day.
So many authorities require it. The income-
tax Commissioner wants to poke his nose
into every man’s accounts. The time-
payment system calls for it. The good old
days when only the bills of the grocer and
the butcher and the wife’s account with
the draper called for any systematic book-
keeping have departed. Yet in State sys-
tems of education the subject is still re-
garded as of less consequence than Latin.
The Mapping of New Guinea.
People interested in Papuan exploration will
hear with regret that the Government expe-
dition despatched some months ago to dis-
cover the source of the Fly River and pro-
ceed thence across the tremendous range
of the Victor Emanuel Mountains to the
north-east coast of New Guinea has failed
to complete its programme. A radio from
Port Moresby announced last week that
the expedition had returned to Daru, the
Government station west of the Fly estuary,
and had reported that, though it had dis-
covered the head of the Fly and Strick-
land rivers, it had been unable to continue,
and had returned down the Strickland, after
ascending the Fly.
The characteristically Papuan official expe-
dition —it comprised only C. H. Karius
and Ivan Champion, with 20 or 30 natives
—can at least claim to have done better
than any of its predecessors. The Fly, one
of the world’s big rivers, had never been
traced to its source in the great range which
is the backbone of the island of New Guinea.
Some 300 miles from its mouth the Fly is
entered by the Strickland. This, too, had
never been traced to its beginnings. Karius
and his party have made it. plain that these
great streams spring from the same source.
The Victor Emanuel Range, from which
the explorers have had to turn back, rises
to heights estimated at 18,000 feet. In his
story of the journey across the lower end of
the same formation, in a much narrower part
of the island. Humphries has told us of the
dreadful world of fog and rain and moss-
covered crags, devoid of all life that could
furnish food, with which he had to battle.
It is suggested in the Port Moresby message
that, food-shortage compelled the return of
the Karius party. This is not surprising,
considering its small carrying capacity. Yet,
a larger party would have defeated its
own ends.
The original idea was that the party
should have with it food enough to conquer
the towering mountain ramparts and then
follow the Sepik River down the eastern
slope to the sea, through a country known
to be thickly inhabited and well provisioned.
It has failed in that objective. Neverthe-
less, even the partial success achieved adds
another cubit to the measure of the Papuan
administration. Surely nowhere in the
world could one hope to find a body capable
of doing so much with so little fuss.
<v ——
The Red RlufV.
In these days, when Soviet Russia is dancing
on its fur cap and challenging the accursed
bourgeoisie of the world to come on and
take its licking, a look over KuthhoatskTs
capacity for military aggression is called for.
The German general staff, still to be rated
as an authority, made some comment on
Soviet military organisation and materiel,
when the raid on the Russian Legation at
Pekin had set the Red hornet’s nest buzzing.
Brushing aside the Russian navy as a dere-
lict jest, Von Fritz reckons the army as “a
negligible quantity in the event of war.”
The leaders .are politicals and not military
men in any se'hsc of the world. There is
no central staff organisation, and of the
650,000 men under arms, only about 50.000
can be compared in any way with other
Continental troops, the balance being poorly
equipped and badly trained. Furthermore,
transport difficulties, always a handicap on
Russian mobilisation in the vast country s
best days, have been increased a hundredfold
by the deterioration of the railways, and
mobilisation would be a long and wasteful
business, conducted over vast distances, for
the most part on the hoof.
Von Fritz may have an axe to grind in
thus belittling the Soviet’s military equip-
ment and personnel. If so, it is not appa-
rent, and the opinion has been borne out
by the Soviet’s enthusiastic disinclination
to do anything more than yell threats of
bloody murder on the several recent occa-
sions on which it has been kicked from
behind.
When Australia sends some of its noblest
sons (or adopted sons) abroad it has often
cause to wish it had also sent someone
to edit their public utterances. Harrison
Moore, an English product who has pro-
fessed Law at Melbourne University for a
quarter-century, arrived recently at San
Francisco, and promptly said:—
“Americans and Britisli are of the same
stock and think along the same lines. A
united English-speaking people can lead the
way for the world, not as dictators, hut as
a united opposition to war”....
It was innocuous piffle, no doubt, but piffle
becomes wearisome, and this particular piffle
is worn out. A recent census showed that
there were about 13f million foreigners in
the L T .S., of whom only some If millions
were from Britain. That wasn’t an uncom-
mon census either. So much for the “same
stock” idea. Anyhow, two trains of thought
on one line may mean not peace but vio-
lent collision. A familiar example is when
two men agree in thinking the same girl
is the most desirable in the world. A
fairly common result is the death of the
girl and one of the men. Besides, two
nations, even though they are big ones,
can’t prevent war, though they may wade
into the war and make it bigger.
#
“Mariner” : I wonder if that section of
ship’s firemen and trimmers who practise
job control in Australia ever consider how
near the reefs of disaster they are steering
their craft. As a friendly critic (not a
shipowner), I will hazard a prophecy that in
10 years from now their goose will have
laid its last auriferous egg. Shipowners
are “fed-up” with the difficulties and delays
in running their ships; and these difficulties
and delays are mainly due to the insane
conduct of the younger firemen and trim-
mers. The cure, from the owners’ point
of view, is to build ships in which the ser-
vices of this class of labor are not required,
and this is rapidly being done. What,
then, will be the fate of the fireman and
trimmer? He will be reduced to signing
on in a few obsolete colliers and in ferry-
boats, where there is work for only 10 p.c.
of the pi’esent numbers. In his need, lie
will turn to his quondam friends ashore who
have so cheerfully condoned his sins and
follies —and they will have no further use
for him!
Noav that Queensland is turning to the
commercial utilisation of molasses, there is
interest for this country in the profits dis-
closed by the latest report of United Mol-
asses, Ltd., an English co. This concern
imports molasses in bulk, carried in tank
steamers, from the West Indies and British
Guiana, etc. The stuff, which in N.Q. has
been allowed to run to waste for half a
century, is converted into industrial alcohol,
cattle foods, yeast and other products.
Profit for its first year’s operations as a
public company was £344.000 on an issued
capital of £1,000.000. One or two shows
of that sort in Australia wouldn’t hurt.


SUCCESS
lies in what you do with what you have. Waiting for something to turn up
rarely pays, and when it does, time at least has already been lost. What you
have now is your only capital, however meagre it may seem, and the sooner
you get it working the sooner will ultimate success come.
Thrift is just a good exhibition of Common-sense, and no amount is too
small to save.
Let the Savings Account do it for you—there your money will not only
be accumulating, but working for you—earning interest.
A Savings Account costs nothing to open and every post office is an
agency of the
Comonwealtb Sank of Hnstralia
(Guaranteed by the Commonwealth Government.)
'K,
M
i
Every foot of
a
LITTLE
DRIVES
are just as import-
ant' as larger ones.
The greatest care
must be taken in
the selection of any
transmission
medium.
“MANGROVITE”
Leather or Raw-Hide Belting
receives careful scientific treatment to insure the transmission of
full power all the time, whether the drive he large or small.
It is specially recommended for the numerous little drives to be found on farm machinery, as
it always drives evenly, lasts longer and stands a greater strain. Try a Mangrovite Belt next time.
You will save much time and expense.
MANGROVITE BELTING LTD.,
Charles Ludowici, Managing Director,
49 York Street (Wynyard Square), Sydney.
POLITICAL
POINTS
N.S.W. Premier Slang, wanting every
farthing he can get hold of for political
bribery and corruption purposes, is now
accepting all he can get of the £20,000,000.
spread over 10 years, which the Federal
Government offers to the States for road-
making, contingent on their finding an addi-
tional £15,000,000 themselves. The N.
Territory apparently gets none of the money,
but the Brage Ministry is a whale for
neglecting its own job, while providing the
means for defeating its own party in the
States.
When Bruce introduced the subject of
child endowment at the Premiers’ Con-
ference some of the gentlemen from the
States smiled pleasantly, * evidently antici-
pating another proposal for the distribution
of Commonwealth-raised millions. With
lengthening faces, they listened to an elabo-
rate statement to the effect that the Com-
monwealth Government could do nothing in
the matter. It would cost £22,445,000 in the
first year, the Priminister said, to provide
Treasury payments of ss. a week to the
mothers of all children under 14, and this
was not to be thought of; moreover, the
Commonwealth was without constitutional
power to tack child-endowment allowances
on to the basic wage through its Arbitration
Courts. So it was a case for “uniform
action” by the States. The Premiers thanked
the speaker glumly and withdrew.
It is all of a piece with the chaos in N. S.
Wales that a good lump of the funds with
which the Lane: faction is fighting the N.S.W.
election was provided by strong opponents of
the faction. Of course nobody made a bar-
gain, so much legislation for so much money;
but practically everybody in politics knows
that in gratitude for the passing of certain
legislation two large interests in Sydney
made sums available for Labor propaganda
purposes. In fact, it is more than possible
that there wouldn’t have been a Labor Daily
by now if the astute Willis and Garden and
the not-at-all-particular Lang hadn’t raised
the wind somehow. And how better, in the.
opinion of these gentlemen, than from your
enemies?
Irish Free State Premier Cosgrave is evi-
dently a “mug” at politics as J. T. Lang
understands the game. Since his party is in
a minority Cosgrave intends to quit office
and let a Government be formed from the
other side of the House, although the other
side consists of several more or less un-
friendly groups. The idea of abandoning
Ministerial salaries because one’s party is in
a minority must be exquisitely ludicrous to
the Lang crowd, which commands 22 votes
in a House with 90 —or will when its Badly
is back. True, Cosgrave hasn’t got Governor
de Chair to deal with; so things may be
more difficult over there.
MAKES ALL THE DIFFE REECE.
“Instead of tackling national problems on constructive lines, Nationalist parties everywhere are
putting ideas lifted from the Labor platform in the forefront of their programmes."
WAITER MAT: “How d’you, find the pie, sir?”
DINER NAT: “Oh very good—very good. That is to say, I find it very good; of
course if you’d eaten it, it would have poisoned you.”
The first Irish Free State election gave
the Cosgrave Government 61 supporters in
a Lower House of 152, but while the Repub-
licans, 48 strong, remained outside and re-
fused to take the oath it had a majority. The
recent election gives it only 46 supporters,
and even if De Valera and his followers con-
tinue to sulk outside it is in a minority.
The old Dail contained five parties; the new
one will have eight. De Valera’s Republi-
cans, 44 strong, added to six Sinn Feiners
and an Independent Republican, make up an
anti-Treaty crowd of 51, as compared with
48 last time. If it can rope in some of the
Laborites (22) or Independents (14) or
Farmers (11), it may capture the Govern-
ment. And any Ministry which could be
formed while De Valera’s 44 stay out would
probably collapse in the midst of important
business should they suddenly decide to come
in.
The majority of Vic. Labor Ministers are
going the right way to antagonise the depart-
mental and lobby pressmen. Hogan and
most of his colleagues profess to be too
busy to talk to half a million readers daily,
and keep the scribes hanging about.
Unstinted publicity, with a minimum of com-
ment (mostly favorable), has been the Min-
istry’s portion, but, except for two or three
old hands, there is no reciprocity. Ministers
have persuaded themselves that the “good
press” is a recognition of outstanding merit.
Yet the time wfill come when the minority
Government will need a heap of goodwill on
the chroniclers’ part to keep it going.
N.S.W. Opposition-leader Bavin is quite
wrong in suggesting that there is nothing
much to choose between the two Labor fac-
tions —that each made a grab for office and
Lang won. This assumes that there are no
longer left in the Labor party any who
stand for straight dealing and honesty, any
who hate corruption and “crookery.” And
there are such men left —tens of thousands
of them outside the Parliamentary party ; a
few within the Parliamentary party. Mutch
did a brave thing when he brought up the
Bethel! business —the finest blow struck this
many a day for the independence of the
civil service. There is no question tliat Lang
in that matter stood for political crooked-
ness ; there is equally no question that Mutch
stood for the straight thing. Justice Har-
vey’s report shows it clearly. To suggest
that there is nothing between these two is
absurd.
Buttenshaw. leader of the N.S.W. Country
party, opened his campaign by explaining
that, despite any temporary alliance with the
Nationalists, the C.P. would preserve its
separate identity. He added that his crowd
wanted “something constructive and up-to-
date, not worn-out, threadbare policies." By
way of being both constructive and original
Buttenshaw might have stated that two of
his first jobs when he soars to office will be
to construct the railway from Inverell to
the coast and the one from Bombala to Two-
fold Bay. It will be a melancholy thing if
he prefers to plug along in the old groove, as
the Wearne-Fuller alliance did.
The optional variety of preferential voting,
which was inserted in the N.S.M. Lang
Government's Electoral Act by the Leg.
Council, is no good to the State Cockies, so
the latter have made the obligatory form part
of their policy. They ought to go further
and extract a promise of Nationalist support
for compulsory preferentialism, as their
Federal organisation did when Hughes was
Priminister before the 1919 Commonwealth
election. They owe that to intending can-
didates who have been commanded to sup-
press themselves in the interests of the Bavin-
Buttenshaw election agreement. So do the
Nationalists, for that matter, but the Nat.-
Federationists wall not accept compulsory
preferentialism unless it is forced on them.
Agricultural workers —some of them —are
to have their hours and pay fixed by an
award in Queensland. The A.W.U. put it
up to the Board of Trade, which was willing,
but insisted that there mustn't be any inter-
ference witli dairy-farming. That, of course,
cuts out about 80 per ceut. of the workers
affected, and leaves untouched the industry
that is most disposed to sweat women and
children. The Labor boss in these days
hasn’t got much time to worry about women
and children.
The Australian Commonwealth Engineer-
ing Standards Association carries a lot of
verbal lumber in its name, but it means
business. In a recent address the secretary
said that the public bodies in Victoria which
used Portland cement had eight different
ideas as to the exact ingredients, so that no
manufacturer could make or keep on hand
a big quantity of any one of them, and
cheap mass production was impossible
through damfoolishness. He added that water
and gas authorities had the same mixed ideas
about pipes and taps, with the same result,
and in many other matters the position was
beastly similar. The railway gauges are not
a solitary example of Australia’s go-as-you-
please tendencies.
Melbourne Age has hoisted the dusty ban-
ner of State Frights over the Federal debt
consolidation proposals, and moans that an
attempt is being made to bamboozle the
States out of their “financial liberty.” Th"
financial liberty of Governments which depend
so largely on external loans for the means
wherewith to pay their external interest
bills v is a poor joke. The Bruce-Page offer is
that the Commonwealth is to become respon-
sible for the interest, and in the last resort
the principal, of present and future State
debts, paying part of the interest itself and
collecting the rest from the States in paper
money, if it can. It takes the onus of turn-
ing sufficient of the paper into gold to meet
the external part of the interest bill. It
offers to subscribe to a sinking fund provided
the States do likewise. No interference with
State revenue and. expenditure accounts is
suggested, but it is certainly proposed that
the Commonwealth should have a voice, but
only a voice, in deciding how much new
debt the States are to make it liable for.
The offer would be regarded as wildly lavish
in other commonwealths.
The big iron door of Russia shuts with
a loud bang these days, and furtive exit by
the window is much objected to. Lately 13
Rumanians were sentenced to death, and
three to 10 years in a nasty dungeon, for
allegedly showing certain Russians the'way
across the Rumanian frontier. Bessarabia,
which was Turkish, Russian and Rumanian
by turns, is a grievance which the Bolsheviks
have against their neighbor, but they would
probably be just as wild if the place with
the curious name didn’t exist. Being wild
is the badge of all their tribe.
The mucli-talked-of discipline inside the
Labor party is a myth. The inter-State
Conference is the party’s highest authority,
and it decided that the Seale Conference’s
claims were bogus. In conformity with that
decision a candidate was run in Warringah;
Lang ran an opposition candidate, and actu-
ally the man run in defiance of the highest
authority in the party beat the other. Now
so well has Lang dug himself in that even
the said highest authority is plainly weaken-
ing and is pretty certain to make a com-
promise so that Lang may go to the country
as the one and only Labor leader. The
poor, small devil who defies the union or
the party is crucified; it looks as though
the big devil who defies it will be told to
have it his own way. In which case, of
course, Lang, with all his faults, will be
a nobler figure than the so-called “highest
authority in the party.”
THE BROTHERS.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“Carlo Camillo Lazzarini, one of Lang’s thrown-
out Ministers, and Hubert Peter Lazzarini, M.H.R.
for Werriwa, are ranged on opposite sides in the
Labor faction light.”
This Jacko da Lang-a
And Tommy da Mutch,
They biff and they bang-a,
They grapple and clutch.
Necessity sets you
With one or the other,
But it’s tough when it gets you
In holts with your brother.
“I’m true as steel to Lang and Seale,” says
Hubert Lazzarini,
“Through thick and thin my faith I pin to
Auburn’s Mussolini.
He’ll stay atop, and those will flop who fool-
ishly decry him:
You’ll do your dash, you’re bound to crash,
you rebels who defy him.
Be sure that you will live to chew the rag
and wear the willow.”
•‘What could we do when out he threw us
all?” retorts Camillo.
“There’s Tom and me and Ed McT., three
Tribunes none surpasses
In, power to throb the surging mob and witch
the struggling masses.
And Billy Dunn is scarce the one —such
charge has ne’er been uttered
By basest foe —who doesn’t know which side
his bread is buttered.
Mat Charlton’s vote is ours, you’ll note, and
hear for proof completer
The virile roar of Theodore.” “Mere sound-
ing brass,” says Peter.
“Pause, Carlo, pause! Your hopeless cause
provokes the grim reflection :
Some bitter wine, O brother mine, you’ll
quaff at the election.
Best have a care how Lang you dare. Serene
the world lie faces;
He takes on Govs, without the gloves and
puts them in their places.
Who cross the Boss are like to doss with
only boots for pillow,
And rue in vain in the Domain.” “Not us,”
observes Camillo.
“You watch us teach him on the beach he’s
not the only pebble,
The chap who lay in wait for Kay and
trouble bought with Treble.
See on our side old Balmain’s pride and pet,
young Evatt, raises
His clarion voice in insults choice and ring-
ing, stinging phrases.
He’s gibe and jeer that cut and sear for
Lang.” “Blow-in and bleater,
His cake, I trow, is sodden dough,” pro-
nounces Hubert Peter.
This Tommy da Mutch-a
And Jacko da Lang,
They’re clinching with such a
Tongue-clatter and clang.
With one or the other
You gotter be ranged,
But it’s hard when your brother
And you are estranged.
N.S.W.
MIFORD.


ot* e
this
he a 1
m
i
£5
\
L»«
A motion was on the
agenda in favour of building a brick wall
to enclose the local Cemetery. The
Town Council had discussed the matter
at some length when a newly-elected
Member summarised the suggestion thus-
“ What I feel about it is this ; the people
who are in the Cemetery can’t get out:
those outside don’t want to get in. We
don’t want a wall at all! ”
A good story and a
good cigarette are
worth repeating!
grilTE
(XPI^ESS
20JorY6
ARDATH TOBACCO CO: LTD: LONDON
SOCIETY
"And it's
Printed with
WIMBLE'S INKS"
“Two Seas”: At the last show in our
district a bike-wheel was set spinning on a
peg to demonstrate the advantages of ball-
bearings. After gazing hard at it for some
time Dad appealed to me to tell him what
it was in aid of. Before I could reply so' ie
would-be humorist cut in with the outrageous
remark that it was Edison’s latest invention
—“perpetual motion.” “Yes,” said 1 )ad, who
is a bit hard of hearing, “but where does
the milk go?”
“J.G.”: It may have been impossible for
Minnie 1 )rewett or any other woman to serve
in the A.I.F. (B. 9/G/’27), but some 80 years
ago a woman named Jorgensen joined up
with the Elmore (Vic.) troop of Mounted
Rifles. She remained in it for years, and
attended the annual military camps without
the slightest suspicion ever being raised about
her sex. When she died somewhat unexpect-
edly she was still a rifleman, and no one was
more surprised than the doctor who attended
her during her last illness to find out Trooper
Jorgensen was not a man. This doctor was
not the one who passed her into the ranks.
This queer being followed the occupation of a
man farmhand, and travelled with the crews
of threshing-machines.
“P.W.A.” : Even in the Bankruptcy Court
one sometimes gets a flash of humor to
AT THE “PLAIN OR FANCY.”
TACTFUL ASS : "Er, 1 say, you know, your—er — petticoats er—are showing.”
THE BRUTE!
“Now that's enough — you’ll know how to appreciate a good wife some day, perhaps.”
“Not me! I’m never going to marry again.”
lighten the gloom. Our learned Official
Receiver, whose methods of examining a vic-
tim are nothing if not polite and flowery,
last week in concluding his inquiry observed
to the debtor—a young soldier-settler of the
type which invariably describes itself as “no
scholar'’: “Now you want to return with
all expedition, don't you? I understand you
are at present actively engaged in the farm-
ing operations appropriate to the season in
that avocation?” Billjim chewed it over
for a moment and then translated the impos-
ing sentences into his own tongue. “Yairs,”
he drawled, “1 wanter git back. I’m in the
middler me seedin’.”
“Windsor”: Victoria’s Chief Electoral
Officer struck an unusual delinquent the other
day. Calling personally in reply to his
request for an explanation of her failure to
vote, the lady said she had no excuse what-
ever to offer and smilingly tendered the
maximum penalty, two quid. The official
mildly pointed out that when a breach of the
Compulsory Voting Act was admitted, and
the elector was willing to settle out of court,
ten bob was the limit. The lady protested
spiritedly. She had been away and had put
off voting by post until it was too late: it
was all her own fault and she wanted to fine
herself two pounds. Besides, she had had a
good holiday and didn’t grudge the amount. A
nonplussed Electoral Chief scratched his head
and weakly deferred his decision.
* * =is *
“Whynot”: Staying at a small country
hotel near Townsville (N.Q.) I was awak-
ened in the early dawn by terrified feminine
screams. I leaped up and rushed out into
the passage with a vague idea of helping
some damsel in distress, and was nearly
knocked down by a young lady who. streaked
along the corridor to an adjacent bedroom in
the costume of Eve before the Fall. It
transpired later that the proprietor’s son
had been given a native-bear on the previous
night, and having no place to house the
beast had turned him loose in the bathroom,
intending to remove his captive to safer
quarters early the next morning. Unfortu-
nately his sister had beaten him to the
shower, having to catch an early train. The
bear, it seemed, had curled up behind the
bath, and on being splashed had risen to
investigate the disturbance. The bobbing-up
of the grotesque head over the side of the
bath had done the rest.
“Croesus”: “Stellsby” (B. 9/6/'27) says:
“Had the Army been ready when our ships
made the first assault [on the Dardanelles]
the history of the Great War would have
been written differently.” No doubt, but the
implication that the military forces were
behind time, or that their action was delayed
by bad strategy, is unfair. Viscount Grey
has pointed out in his book, “Twenty-five
Years,” that the assault on the Dardanelles
was intended at first to be solely a naval
action and that consent was given to it by
the War Council on that basis, Kitchener and
himself approving of it on the distinct under-
standing that it was not to involve the use
of a military force. They were convinced
that splitting up their all too small army
would mean loss of effectiveness, especially
when such long lines of communication were
needed at Gallipoli. The naval attack, how-
ev °L developed in such a way that the use of
a land force became unavoidable. The origi-
plan p rovided that, if the naval attack
was unsuccessful, it should be treated as a
demonstration only and abandoned; but in
the end Grey and Kitchener and the War
Council as a whole were compelled to approve
0 f a landing. Kitchener looked on the Gal-
lipoli business and similar undertakings with
aversion, terming them “side-shows,” and
there was and is much to support his view,
* * *
<<CI , . t TT „ Tr ' , ' .
J'nrict V eg. : Young and Jackson s fam-
ous art gallery on the Flinders-Swanston
streets corner. Melbourne, received some
unusual limelight the other day. A young
man entered the bar. ordered a glass of
sarsaparilla, and flung the empty tumbler at
“Cliloe,” the largest and most expensive
Picture in the show—3ooo guineas was re-
ssr
which gained the gold medal at the. Paris
Salon in 1886. Acquaintances of the lady
w ill be glad to hear that she was only slightly
damaged, though the glass protecting her
was shattered. Her assailant; who informed
the police that God had given him strength
to do the deed, has been incarcerated in an
institution where he is registered as a religi-
ous maniac, which seems rough on religion,
He probably belongs to the large class who
do n’t get enough nudity in their daily lives,
They should become art students or stay
j 1 more often and bath their babies,
... ... ~. ...
“X.D.”: A revealing item in a case of
sly-grog selling in Melbourne was the
schedule of the police expenses. They were:
Purchase of liquor by the police, £4 12s. 6d.;
rent of room, 125.; meals, 175.; tram fares,
75.; hire of motor-car, £9 18s. 6d.; sundries.
125.; total. £l6 19s. It sounds almost as
inviting as a Royal Commission.
THE LADY ON THE STAMP.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“Tlie postage stamp issued by the Commonwealth
to celebrate the opening of Canberra represents a
somewhat corpulent Australia apparently attempting,
with what we are informed is a bunch of wattle, to
brush away the disconcerting vision of a large
department store.” —London Evening Standard.
Australia, thus abominably slandered,
Buck up, old girl ! I come to take your
part.
This jaundiced critic of the Evening
Standard,
What should he know of Beauty or of
Art?
I'll bet a bob or two he never philandered
At Happy Hampton with a trimmer tart,
Or found himself uxoriously saluting
Such lips at Peckham Rye or Upper Tooting.
He calls you corpulent, the sneering sinner.
And possibly your rounded curves denote
A sensible attention to the inner
Woman, from breakfast-time to table
d'hote.
You surely look as if you’d had your dinner,
But dubbing you a fatty gets our goat.
Why, no one but a jockey or a primate
Cuts down his scran in Canberra’s bracing
climate.
You'd do your duty by a luncheon-hamper
Or even a porterhouse, I haven’t a doubt.
Withal, those legs across the hills could
scamper
Freed from the classic draperies round-
about ;
Those arms with rolled-up sleeves could mix
a damper,
Or hit a tennis-ball a harder clout
Than damosels with next to nix their ribs
on—
The type that used to be designed by Gipson.
Wattle —that branch you hold? You’ve come
a buster.
My London friend. In Fleet-street or the
Strand
They pulled your leg. Or were your lamps
lacklustre
When this impressive oh jet Tart you
scanned?
Maybe ’tis palm, maybe a feather-duster
She brandishes in her domestic hand.
I'm undecided, but I’ll lay a bottle
Of anything you like it isn’t wattle.
Buck up, old girl, and try to look your
smartest
Upon the stamp, though carping souls
deplore
The pile whereat that gladsome gaze thou
dartest
Should so resemble a department store—
The innuendo needn’t nark the artist
For, when all’s said and done, that’s what
it’s for—
Smile on, and wave your brush in fingers
nimble;
A broom would be a less poetic symbol.
N.S.W.
T. THE E.


"Naklioda”: An old landmark
which progress and respectability
have doomed is slowly disappearing
from St. Kilda-road, the boulevard
Melbourne is so proud of. It is the
180 ft. chimney of the tramway
power-house, which has dominated
the changing streetscape for 35
years. The two steeplejack's de-
puted to abolish it, bit by bit, have
still 180,000 bricks between them
and the earth. It w r ill take them
five weeks to remove their visible
means of support.
❖ * *
“Oilskin”: A Gippslander pur-
chased a second-hand limousine
from a denizen of Fitzroy for £2O,
and congratulated himself on hav-
ing secured a star bargain. Cer-
tainly the engine made a noise lik“
a threshing-machine, but the pur-
chaser was assured that the annoy-
ance would “gradually get dimmer
and finally pass away.” Gaily he
set off on his 38-mile journey to
Pakenham, reckoning the trip would
take him two hours: actually, it
occupied two days and nights. The
radiator had to be filled every hour
or two, the petrol pipes were found
to be tied with short ends of copper
wire, and among other novelties the
accelerator was manipulated by the
unusual method of levering out a
looped niece of wire with the foot.
At Clayton (10 miles out) a halt
had to be called and some new parts
obtained. Finally, when Pakenham
w r as reached, the wheezy contrap-
tion fell to pieces and gave up the
ghost. The disgusted agriculturist
immediately stopped payment of his
cheque, but when he was brought
to court the magistrate ordered him
to pay up and foot the bill for law'
costs as well. The moral seems to
be that an agrarian who goes to
Fitzroy with £2O in search of star
bargains in motors is taking
chances.
“Oran”: When Count von Luck-
ner, of See Adler fame, visits
Maoriland, as he intends to do at
an early date, he may expect an
almost friendly welcome. His escape
from Motuiti Island, in the Haura-
ki Gulf, was regarded in Auckland
as rather a gratifying incident,
coming as it did after months of
bitter complaints about lax mili-
tary control of the German prison-
ers and privileges allowed them, and
of mysterious signals flashed from
the surrounding islands and head-
lands to the internees. When Yon
Luckner and his company adroitly
annexed the commandant’s launch
and escaped, commandeered a scow
and sailed to the lonely Kermadecs,
the man in the street remarked that
it was only what might have been
expected of any intelligent body of
prisoners. The cable ship Iris was
quick in pursuit, and brought the
escapees back to Auckland, they
having missed the raider Wolf,
which had arranged to pick them
up at the Kermadecs, by three
days. The versatile Count remarks
in his memoirs that the delay was
caused by the much-despised local
motor patrol, a company of private
launches that undertook night
patrol work in Auckland Harbor to appease
uneasy citizens, upsetting the prisoners’
time-table; but his chief admiration went
to the enterprising young man who bluffed
him near Fiji into abandoning the smart
little See Adler, and took all the fugitives into
custody without having a weapon in his
possession.
* * * *
“Uramao”: A Dunedin dabbler in wire-
less and spookism has a specially equipped
set which “collects” the voices of the dead.
Recently he gave a demonstration before a
committee which included two daily-paper
representatives. The committee sat in an
electrically-lit room, and from the wireless
came songs, of ancient date, rendered by the
dead. One came in a child’s treble. Another
voice, that of a young lady who sang the
songs sold at one of the stalls in the Dun-
edin Exhibition and died shortly after its
close, was instantly recognised by some of
those present who had known the singer well.
The newspaper men were as staggered as the
rest of the committee at what they heard.
Is it not possible that the human voice once
it gets on to the sound-waves floats round
for ever? It is a reasonable assumption to
those who are not subscribers to the spook
business.
“A.J.J.F.” : Some years ago I was medical
officer and also acted as magistrate at times
in the nor’-west seaports of Groperland.
On one occasion an Afghan was summoned
by the police for burning a camel’s belly, the
allegation being that he had lighted a fire
under the animal when it refused to move.
The unscrupulous heathen was ordered to
bring the camel to the court, but proceeded
to burn another camel only very slightly,
and brought it along to show bow unjust
was the accusation of cruelty. Unfor-
tunately for him the evidence was too
damning, and the upshot of it was that he
was fined £3O for burning the first camel
and another £3O for trying to conceal his
offence by burning the second. The fines, I
remember, were promptly paid. He should,
of course, have been committed for perjury as
well, but that would have involved sending
him to Perth, over 1500 miles away, and the
Bench wasn’t going to put the State to that
expense.
* * * *
“L.G.M.” : “Laodah” asks if arsenic taken
in tiny and slowly increasing doses may not
sometimes result in increased resisting power
THE NEW LOAN THEORY.
THE HEAD SWAGGIE: “The idea is, boys, instead of ns all stragglin’ backwards and for-
wards to the pub an’ gettin’ a had name, me an’ me partner gets the beer by the barrel
an’ whacks it out—an’ I shouldn’t be surprised if we gets it at reduced prices conse-
quent on taking a quantity.”
for the taker (B. 9/6/’27). No doubt there
are such cases. By taking Aery small doses,
such as a fraction of a milligram, and gradu-
ally increasing them over a long period cf
time, a tolerance may be established. Osier
speaks of Styrian peasants who have taken
arsenic from their early childhood being able
to take as much as 500 milligrams of arsenic
in a day (the official dose used in medicine
is one to four milligrams). But arsenic in
various forms is extensively used in medicine
—as a general tonic, in skin conditions, in
pernicious anmmia, in syphilis—and tolerance
is very rare. Chronic arsenical poisoning
has to be guarded against by careful obser-
vation of the patient and by occasionally
suspending the treatment altogether. A suc-
cession of fair-sized doses of arsenic will
almost invariably cause sub-acute or chronic
illness, and if long continued will have a fatal
result. Arsenic occurs in wallpaper, arti-
ficial flowers, fabrics, carpets, in the glazed
red and green papers used in kindergartens
and in many other things. Under warm,
moist conditions volatile arsenic may be set
free from any of these substances. Some
years ago it appeared in contaminated glu-
cose used in manufacturing beer, and caused
a widespread epidemic of arsenic-poisoning
at Manchester.
“Coot” : Melbourne’s recent radio-telepathy
test was not a success. The articles “con-
centrated upon” by the Rev. J. H. Gain, Dr.
Nicholls and Mrs. Booth were a penny, a
latch-key, an ordinary pen, a train ticket and
a shire map of Bogong, in that order. Over
15,000 listeners-in sent in the results of their
concentrations, but nobody visualised the
objects in the proper order, and the train
ticket and the map of Bogong were not visu-
alised by a single soul. Altogether 2296
thought of the other three objects, but out
of order. Three correctly placed the penny
first: two rightly listed the latch-key second
and 140 put the pen third. The penny was
visualised by 68; the latch-key by 36 and
the pen by no fewer than 2080. A map, but
not the right one, was visualised by 112.
Wrong articles seen by imaginative listeners-
in included spiders, rabbit-traps, concertinas,
teddy-bears, stuffed birds, sculls, goldfish.
Melba and an elephant—the pachyderm had
no less than 47 backers.
* =5 * *
“Light Horse”: Bertram Mackennal’s
memorial to the dead of the A.1.F., which
is to be erected in Martin-place, Sydney, is
an impressive monument; its worst fault is
that it omits all reference to two branches
of the service, the Light Horse and the Artil-
lery. The solid cenotaph has a statue-sentry
at each end—an infantryman and a seaman
of the R.A.N. One may search in vain for
any record of the men who formed the “key-
stone of the defence of Egypt” or of the Gun-
ners who paved the way for our infantry in
every action on the Franco-Belgian front.
The services performed by the R.A.N., great
as they were, were nothing in comparison
with those of the Light Horse on Gallipoli
and in Sinai and Palestine, or with those of
the gunners on Gallipoli or France. No one
will quarrel with the pride-of-place accorded
to the infantryman, but that the R.A.N.’s
horn should be exalted over the Light Horse,
which far outnumbered the R.A.N. in per-
sonnel and in battle casualties and far excel-
led it in battle experience and achievement —
and that applies to the gunners as well —is a
matter for something like disgust.
* * * *
“D.C.T.”: “D.D.” (B. 9/6/’27) claims to
have heard music emanating from iron gir-
ders at Altona (Vic.), a few miles from the
3LO broadcasting station. Sound is trans-
mitted from a station at radio frequency and
an elaborate system (crystal or valve) is
necessary to convert these waves to “audio”
frequency, i.e., a vibration frequency which
can be detected by the human ear as sound.
It is hard to see how this can be brought
about on a girder, and I don’t think there
need be any fear that the powder magazine
will explode.
“Strict Veg.”: A landmark almost as
familiar as the traffic cop has gone from the
shadow of St. Paul’s in Flinders-street, Mel-
bourne. She is Amy Williams, a little old
lady in dark glasses and ten suits of clothes,
who used to sit alongside the only noiseless
gramophone in existence and wait for chari-
table coppers. She went off on the Orsova
the other day to see the country scenes of
her English home with the last bit of her
failing eyesight. Nobody has ever been
known to hear her music above the roar of
Australia’s busiest intersection, although the
discs were always industriously spinning,
and few knew that at the end of her day’s
programme she always played “God Save the
King.”
“Two Seas": The fact that the
four-masted barque Herzogin Cecilie
is worked with a crew of 20 when
carrying 52,000 bags of wheat is a
reminder that the conditions of
windjammer seamen have not
greatly improved during the last 30
years. They may get higher wages
and better tucker, but they pay for
it in more work and longer hours.
In my youth I sailed in a full-
rigged ship of 800 tons that carried
a crew of 30, and it was never
necessary to rouse out the watch
below to assist in reducing sail in
a sudden squall. When I last saw
the old ship she had been altered to
a barque rig and carried a crew of
16, half of them mere youths. And
their wages were not much above
the £2 10s. a month that was con-
sidered quite enough for common
shellbacks in the bad old days. In
spite of donkey-engines and other
modern gadgets to be seen on wind-
jammers, a lot of the work in hand-
ling sails can only be done by man-
power. In the case of a ship of the
Herzogin Cecilie’s tonnage, with a
skeleton crew there must be fre-
quent calls for “all hands,” and a
watch that has only just turned in
has to turn out again and scramble
sleepily aloft to reef tops’ls.
* • *
“Syd Swagman”: “The Wild
Scotchman” (B. 26/5/’27). if only
among the smaller fry of the bush-
ranging profession, gave many
people cause to remember him. He
stuck up the Cardington Hotel at
the Houghton River diggings in
March, 1864, wounding the proprie-
tor in the face. He faced his trial
at Bowen 14 months later, but
managed to escape; in February,
1866, he bailed up the Peak Downs
mail and got away with a good haul
in cash. In March, he stopped the
Springsure mail, taking £5O in notes
and gold and leaving cheques
amounting to £llOO. Soon after-
wards he was captured at Gin Gin
station after a chase of 90 miles
and was charged at Maryborough in
September with being a Crown
prisoner illegally at large, and on
several counts of bushranging. The
sometime road-agent took up shanty-
keeping on his release and did well
at it.
* * *
“Sea Nomad": Bramble Cay,
upon which the old Tasman ran
aground in Torres Strait, has
proved a veritable graveyard for
ships. The names of some of them
will never be known; all that is
left are the coral-encrusted ribs
occasionally found by the native
divers. Recently a 45ft. concrete
beacon-tower has been built upon
the Cay, w T hich should make navi-
gation in these seas less perilous.
But it will still be dangerous
enough. Skippers making towards
Darnley Island are apt to sheer off
towards the east coast of Stephens
Island and try for a passage be-
tween it and Nepean Island. Not
long ago a big boat ran in on the
wrong side, causing much excite-
ment on shore. She continued on a
course which meant inevitable dis-
aster. She must have dropped the
mud-hook when she found reefs
everywhere; anyway, next morning
she jazzed back past the island and
picked up her right tracks. Later
on a steamer bound south came bowl-
ing along, blissfully unaware that she,
too, was heading straight for per-
dition. A warning flag was run up
at Darnley Island just in time to
enable her to side-track with swift-
ness and precision. Probably the
only aggrieved people were the
Stephens Islanders, who look on this sort of
thing as an interference with their vested
rights. In the old days they were as con-
firmed wi'eckers as the Cornishmen of a few
centuries ago, and to put a ship on her right
course seems to them like the refusal ot a
gift from the eods.
* * * *
“C.Q.”: An ironmoulder in Ballarat has
a set of iron teeth. He cast and polished
them himself and finds them as serviceable
as the porcelain variety.
* * * *
“Final”: Who says that a woman can’t
put things in a nutshell when she likes ! The
lady of the house was giving a final polish
to her door-knob, and noticing a particularly
unprepossessing hawker fumbling with the
gate-latch she forestalled him with “None to-
day. thank you.” “No what?” “Whatever
you’ve got.”
* * *
“Ring Bolt”: Optimists, is it? Talking
to Joe, a Digger friend, wdio, in exchange
for an arm and foot, brought home chronic
rheumatism and a crook lung, I. mentioned
that I knew a man of 64 ivho claimed never
to have felt a pain or ache. “Gripes, was
Joe’s comment, “I wonder what the poor
cow finds to talk about!”
WHITE MAGIC.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Dreams of the scented East encompass me,
Vagrant, elusive shades that haunt the
dusk
Like fitful strains of some far melody,
Wafted on clouds of ambergris and musk.
Entranced I roam some cobble-paved bazaar,
Where brazen-throated merchants cry their
wares,
Skins of the scented wine of Tripoli,
Rare Turkish sweetmeats, silks from far
Benares.
I see brown deserts blistering in the heat,
And stately caravans that come and go
To some far-off oasis, verdure-crowned.
Where date-palms wave and crystal waters
flow;
Flower-deck'd zenana, where some Eastern
queen
Peeps through the lattices with languorous
eyes,
And velvet-footed eunuchs guard and keep
The portals of this perfumed paradise.
What magic scent of myrrh and
ambergris
Conjures these visions in my reel-
ing brain
Like some sweet spell? Ye Shades
of Brilliantine,
Dickie has had his brush-back
cut again!
N.s.w.
D. GLASSON.


9iNs
Nry
SNjy
TO*
m
jsa
?5S
SS»C
ss
•*>
<53
S 5»:
<r^c?
<s*
'fe
< <>
¥W
%*
In Packets-
-20 for 176I 7 6
10 for 9 P
and in Tins-
-50 for 3 ; 9
[~Ha.n.\j.-fa.ctu.y-e& in. En.gla.-n.dl]
In your home,
GOLD FLAKE
CIGARETTES
with their coolness,
freshness and fvagrance
will help to pass the
leisure hours.
a
)
ft
W/2.
ft
i-
/
7/
zm
/
i
W,D&HLO WILLS


<■* *
o
°JhiL cLrisvk, tkat p/eases t/ie, PcUate>
o
0
0
a
AN ORANGE DRINK
MANUFACTURED
EXCLUSIVELY BY
all I//
v \Vlllf7?
v\\\"H/%a
in it
€ks
TTT777
I’/* DAIRY
u MILK
NUT
CHOCOLATE
HJJmI
ANOTHER MOD. CONV.
MOTHER: “Well, what do you think of it?”
FATHER: “All right, old girl, what there is of it. And convenient, I should say—you
won’t have the bother of cutting it down when Margery’s old enough to go to
school.”
“Ibn el Issar”: To anyone
who knows anything of the
dirty, vicious and usually dis-
eased Bedouin Arab, the sheik
convention which has been so
exploited in the movies and on
the stage is amazing. The real
Arab, the man of a race which
furnished modern civilisation
with the rudiments of arith-
metic, algebra, astronomy and
that alchemy which led on to
chemical research, looks down
on the Bedouin as an outcast,
an eater of forbidden foods, a
maintainer of unveiled women,
a drinker of date-brewed alcohol
and an utter renegade on the
splendid Arab tradition of hos-
pitality which says that one
must not cut a guest's throat.
There is pathetic evidence of
the Hollywood influence in a
cabled story last week which
told of an English Girl Guide
in Damascus being permitted
by the English consul there to
marry a Bedouin “emir,” and go
to live with him as “Queen of
the Desert.” A desert-Bedouin’s
kingdom is “where his hat is."
He has no part or right in the
territorial claims of the genuine
Arab tribes with whom he is
so often confused and by whom
lie is_ so despised. One sickens
to think of the chastening which
must be the lot of that Girl
Guide.
“Balaclava”: To the list of
19 lights of English literature
immortalised in the names of St.
ivilda (Vic.) thoroughfares (B.
9/6/’27) may be added .Spenser,
Scott. Moore. Meredith and
Austin (Alfred, I suppose). Nor
have Australian poets been en-
tirely neglected; there is a
Kondall-street, a Lawson-street
and a Lindsay-street as well as
a Gordon. St. Kilda can also
boast of a Smith-street, but it
is uncertain whether this com-
memorates the illustrious Adam
or some local celebrity.
“Darien” : Beneath our local undertaker's
gloomy professional exterior moves an alert
mind always ready to welcome and test new
ideas. His was the first motor-funeral out-
fit in our little Mallee township, and his
auto-hearse (a second-hand Ford truck with
THE DIPLOMAT OF OUR BOARDING-HOUSE.
THE STAR BOARDER: “We’re planning a little surprise for. you, Mrs. Winkle.”
MRS. WINKLE ( landlady ): "H'm, what is it?"
THE STAR: “ We didn’t know what to give you, Mrs. Winkle, so-er-we’re saving up all our
match-boxes for you to pack our lunches in.”
suitable fittingsj aroused nearly as much
interest as Hogan’s prize bull. Embalming
was liis high passion, but lying in state
( with its preparatory mysteries) was natu-
rally unheard of in the Malice. He went
every summer (his slack season) to Mel-
bourne, where he made a round of visits to
the larger “parlors,” picking up hints and
indulging in technical talk with professional
brethren. I met him in the main street
flfter his return from his last holiday, and
we drifted across to Doolan’s for a drink.
Over the beer I asked him if he had enjoyed
his trip, and he became pleasantly animated
as he told me of the latest improvements in
cere clothes, artificial wreaths, and coffin-
mountings. “Saw a nice bit of embalming,
too,” he continued with decorous gusto, “at
Tut and Kamen’s, where my old pal John-
ston is head man.” T. and K., it transpired,
had been engaged to embalm the remains
of a certain single gentleman, while disput-
ing groups of fiercely-religious relatives deter-
mined the vexed question as to whether the
grave should be in the Presbyterian or the
Catholic portion of the cemetery. “When
Jonno showed me round,” went on the nar-
rator, “the family had been arguin’ for ten
days, and,” dropping his voice to a confiden-
tial whisper, “believe me, or believe me not,
Mr. Pounce, that corpse was as sweet as
a nut. Best bit of work I ever saw!” I
finished my beer rather hurriedly.
“Punctured”: “Windbag” does the German
East African force an injustice when he
says that the Zeppelin which was taking
medicinal supplies to it in 1917 was recalled
by wireless because the force in question
had surrendered to General Smuts (B.
9/G/’27). No doubt Smuts had gained some
successes, but the German O.C. (Yon Leton)
was still holding out with thousands of
troops in Portuguese East Africa when the
Armistice was signed. He had been driven
across the Rovuma River and troops were
being disembarked at Port Amelia to engage
him. It took the British forces several days
to locate Von Leton and inform him of the
Armistice. A much more probable reason
for the Zeppelin’s return was its failure to
get in touch with Yon Leton. In 1917 the
German commander was being kept continu-
ally on the move, the railway and all the
principal towns and the wireless stations
being in the hands of the Allies.
“Johnno” : _ The Zeppelin which made the
record flight in 1917 from Europe to German
East Africa did not go entirely unnoticed,
as “Windbag” suggests. In “Hard Lying,”
by L. B. Weldon, a readable bundle of
Eastern Mediterranean war reminiscences,
the author has this to say:—
Once, when cruising in the Managem, half-way
between Cyprus and Port Said, we sighted a curious
looking object at a great height up in the sky. it
was not an aeroplane; suddenly it dawned on us
that it was a Zeppelin! We reported what we
iiad seen on our arrival and heard no more about it.
I don’t think our report was believed at the time.
As a matter of fact, this was the Zeppelin that made
the famous flight from Bucharest to German East
Africa and back via the Libyan Desert, Khartoum
and the Sudan. In my opinion, one of the most
wonderful achievements of the war!
Lest the title of the book should mislead
anyone, it is explained that “Hard Lying"
is the term for a special allowance given to
men serving in small craft such as destroyers
and trawlers.
* * *
“Crojack” : The motor-tug Southland, just
completed for the Bluff Harbor Board
1M.1v.), is something new in coastwise craft.
Besides being a tug she is also fitted to he
a pilot vessel, salvage ship and passenger
boat. In the last-named capacity her heat
will be between Bluff and Stewart Island,
a distance of 24 miles, but one in which
most violent weather may be met with, even
in summer. (The service is not run in
winter, tourists being then scarce.) The
Southland’s predecessor was the Theresa
Ward, small but powerful and very lively.
A trip in her to Stewart Island was seldom
one to be forgotten. Shortly after leaving
porf a tall, black-whiskered sailor would
solemnly set out green-painted buckets con-
venient to passengers in the saloon or on
deck. After that they had to look after
themselves until Bluff was reached, when an
ambulance could be obtained if requried.
“Sea Bream”: I saw a cask of beer adroitly
“sweated” by a Digger at the Aerodrome
Camp in Heliopolis in 1915. The canteen
was run by a firm of Greeks and consisted of
a large marquee, a rough counter, four
nigger barmen and a sufficiency of beer and
tin mugs. A full cask had been left standing
against the side of the canteen. After eyeing
it thoughtfully for a minute or two my friend
left and presently returned with a brace and
bit, a length of rubber tubing (borrowed from
the colonel’s car) and containers of various
shapes and sizes. Then he cut a small hole
in the side of the canteen, bored another in
the cask, inserted the tubing and syphoned
the beer into the containers until the cask
was empty and a number of Diggers full.
An hour or two later the canteen boss started
to roll the cask counterwards. His outburst
when he grasped the situation made me sorry
that I have no knowledge of Greek.
THE SHOOTING MATCH.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
We'd been telling round the camp-fire tales
that made De Rougemont’s thin ;
Someone asked the ancient shellback if he
hadn’t a yarn to spin,
Something hairbreadth and exciting from his
past adventurous,
And that sailor-man assented and unloaded
this on us:
“We was carrying some bullion ’cross the
Caribbean sea.
When a buccaneer came slipping from an
island to our lee,
An’ w T e knowed that we was in for an un-
pleasant kind o’ snag
When we seed the grinnin’ Headpiece and the
Shinbones on ’er flag.
“There was mighty little use, we found, in
pleading for our lives,
For some ’ad rusty cutlasses, an’ some 'ad
stabbin' knives.
But they all could use their oddments in a
most efficient way
An’ I never seed a erooler lot o’ buccaneers
than they.
“At last just two of us was left, me and me
cobber Hank.
So they slung a beam acrorst the side and
made us walk the plank.
Then they splits up into teams wiv their
muskets, just to see
If some could keep the sharks off Hank. V
others off of me!
“An' some they bet on me then, ’n’ some they
bet on Hank;
Whiles others whacked the plunder up. ’n'
others sat ’n’ drank.
But Hank ’n’ me was koepin' still, bein'
neither of us narks,
An' wishful not to spoil their shots when
they was pottin’ sharks !
“Till in the end a brainy shark comes at it
underneath.
Havin' tumbled to it otherwise a pretty sea-
weed wreath
’D be needed in his family in the quite near
by-'n'-bye
If be cruised about the surface wiv his dorsal
to the sky.
“We was drifting on the island, we was jist
about ashore,
When I heard that shark a-crunchin’ 'n' the
pirates give a roar.
As I went stumblin' up the beach and givin’
’Eaven thanks
It dawned upon me suddenly, my team had
beaten Hank’s!"
maorilano.
R.G.W.


&udorßatteries are installed'at deSeam Wireless Statioi
and Efficiency are Essential
'
UIV - /
r ,P»JI /
m
pm
HM
jSlj
J|
SHI
P
11
t
N-
-1
;
IS
■
T*
H ■.
i
<*#»*
* *e *_jsg *? -**
‘mPs
'■ ,>»j J jfi Prr ■ * 'M
H
S ;
V i
This is a further instance where Tudoi
Batteries are selected by engineers in every
part of the world where absolute reliability
is essential.
Tudor Batteries are made in England.
Anode Batteries Receiving Station, Rockbank, Victor
( I‘tioto by Darge.)
TUDOR BATTERIES are supplied
exclusively with
DELCO-LIGHT
plants by
.Messrs. Warburton, Franki, Ltd., Sydney.
Messrs. Warburton, Franki, Ltd.,
Melbourne.
Messrs. Warburton, Franki, Ltd.,
Brisbane.
Messrs. Parsons & Robertson, Ltd..
Adelaide.
Messrs. W. F. & E. A. Stewart,
Launceston.
plants by
Messrs. Dangar, Ged.ve. Ltd., Sydney.
Messrs. Malloch Bros., Perth.
For each of the above plants a special
exclusive type of TUDOR BATTERY
is supplied, specially designed to meet
the individual requirements of the plants
TUDOR BATTERIES ARE
MADE IN ENGLAND.
Main Battery Room, Beam Station. Ballan, Victoria.
(Photo by. Darge.)
Tudor Batteries for Country Home and
Farm Lighting Plants are designed and built
upon exactly the same engineering principles
as the largest and most important batteries
for services of public utility and defence.
In addition to this, Tudor Country House
Batteries embody all the latest improvements
that have been specially designed for the
convenience of country users, including
complete sealing of cells, individual plate
support, etc.
Australasian Office:
The Tudor Accumulator
Co. Ltd. (London),
Culwulla Chambers,
Castlereagh Street, Sydney.
(Euftw Accumulators


METROVICK.
HIGH TORQUE
HIGH EFFICIENCY
h
SQUIRREL CAGE
INDUCTION MOTORS
la#?
a
The leading features of our C.K.B. Motors
may be briefly summarised as follows:
1. Low initial cost.
2. Robustness.
it. Hig.li starting torque.
4. High efficiency.
5. Quick starting.
6. Lower starting current.
7. Reduced slip.
MSJSSSgH
ELECTRJCAI! Sv —■_ CO. LTtt
Melbourne. Sydney, Adelaide,
Brisbane and Wellington (N.Z.).
NOBEL-GLASCOW EXPLOSIVES.
The Standard of Quality throughout the Empire.
Monobel
Samsonite
Gelatine Dynamite
Gelignite
Blasting Gelatine
Dynamite
Safety Fuse
Detonators
Cartridges
ipom
An Enamel which
Passes alI the Tests
of Actual Service.
For all purposes, domestic and indus-
trial, also unrivalled for Motor paint-
ing. Many Car Owners like to paint
their own Cars. Ripolin is easy to
apply and is successfully used by
amateurs. Being an air-drying Enamel
it flows out without brush marks
when applied with a liberal coat.
BTPOTJM POPS NOT REQUIRE POLISHING. IMIMH.I.n Wll.f. NOT IU'B Ol’F-
White and a large variety of shades procurable practically everywhere.
L. A. CORMACK (Factory Rep.), 4 Underwood St. (otf 35 Pitt St.), Sydney
The WILD CAT
COLUMN
Goldsbrough, Mort and Co., Limited, the
wool people:—
Net
Earn- Debenture
Mar., ings. Interest. Dividend. Reserves.
1917 £222,067 £69,686 15 p.c. = £105,411 £615,039
1918 249,987 68,985 15 „ „ 105,411 690,630
Transferred to Capital, £70,273 .. 620,357
1919 222,950 68,338 15 p.c. = 115,951 659,018
1920 161,039 66,960 15 „ „ 115,951 ) fil9
Drought exes, written off, £25,000 J OA -G J -4&
Premiums on new shares. £35,960 648,106
1921 119,427 65,614 10 p.c. - 84,493 617,426
1922 237,039 65,641 15 „ „ 137,527 651,297
Harrison, Jones and Devlin, Ltd. (N.S.W.), bought out.
Premiums on new shares .. £37,500 688,797
1923 230,833 65,324 15 p.c-. = 145,027 709,279
1924 290,259 64,569 15 „ „ 145,027 789,942
Bagot, Shakes and Lewis, Ltd. (S.A.), bought out.
Premiums on new shares, £186,113 976,055
Additions to reserves. £280,947.. 1,257,002
1925 372,313 63,346 15 p.c. = 212,592 1,353,377
Premiums on new shares, £187,500 .. 1,540,877
1926 378,325 63,233 15 p.c. = 250,000 1,605,969
1927 373,377 63,091 15 „ „ 262,500 1,653,755
Capital is to be increased to £2,000,000 by
the creation of 250,000 new £l shares.
These are to be offered to holders in the pro-
portion of one to seven at a premium of
15s. Shareholders have had a fine time; not
only have consistently good divs. been dis-
tributed —there has been only one 10 p.c.
break in the 15 p.c. p.a of the last 11 years
—but progress has demanded increases of
capital, and these have been very sweet be-
cause the market has always been well above
the premium asked, enterprise and courage
have been a notable feature of the manage-
ment in recent years: in 1923, Harrison,
Jones and Devlin. Ltd. (N.S.W.), was
absorbed; in 1925, Bagot, Shakes and Lewis
(S.A. and W.A.). The co. is now solidly
established in all States and ranks second
amongst the wool-sellers of the Common-
wealth. Dalgety’s alone showing greater
figures. The purchases mentioned were
made in Goldsbrough-Mort shares at a
heavy premium which resulted in solid
additions to reserves. 111 general, the man-
agement allies to enterprise in its operations
pronounced conservatism in its finances. Re-
serves, for instance, at March 31 were almost
equal to paid capital, and tli e new issue will
not disturb the proportions overmuch. That
is the visible position. 111 addition, there is
what is hidden. Freehold and leasehold pro-
perties and stock, for instance, appeared at
£307,701 less mortgage of £30,000 —£37,800
lighter than at the previous balance. Inas-
much as the valuations, apart from deprecia-
tion. have not been materially changed since
1900, it may be guessed that there is a solid
reserve in that lot. Solid backing to capital
is necessary in a pastoral finance co. on
account of the susceptibility of the industry
to violent fluctuations. Certainly, last term
added another to the list of rich years, but a
break will come in the procession sooner or
later —each year.brings it closer. Australia
had a taste of it in 1925-26 when the central-
west of Queensland was hit by a dry spell
that played havoc with flocks and herds.
Anxiety in the area has not ceased even yet,
although last monsoonal rains benefited all
hut a few districts. The co. was fortunate
in that only two of its stations were in the
affected area. Goldsbrougli-Mort’s interests
are widespread. Local setbacks, therefore,
affect it less than in the case of cos. operat-
ing in more restricted territory, but wide-
spread drought would not only reduce its
earnings, but also cut into its assets. Still,
it would have to be something very severe
now to put shareholders on short commons.
The spectre at the feast is the possibility of
general drought and a slump in wool and
other products happening simultaneously;
and that possibility, so far as wool is con-
cerned, seems very remote.
Partly because of the absorption of other
businesses, gross profits were almost twice
as great as for 1923:
Provi-
Gross Debenture dent Net
Profit. Expenses. Interest. Fund. Profit.
1918. . £366,644 £116,657 £68,985 £181.002
1919.. 359,317 134,367 68,338 £2OOO 154,612
1920.. 299.901 161,862* 66,960 2000 69,079
1921.. 256,789 135,362 65,614 2000 53,813
1922.. 377,655 138,616 65,641 2000 171,398
Harrison. Jones and Devlin, Ltd., purchased.
1923.. 431,112 197,779 65,324 2500 165,509
1924.. 498.039 205.280 64,569 2500 225,690
Bagot, Shakes and Lewis, Ltd., purchased.
1925.. 806.413 429,100 63.346 5000 308,967
1926.. 846,050 462,725 63,233 5000 315,092
1927.. 855,272 476,894 63,091 5000 310,286
£25,000 di-ought exes.
Profits of the introductory table are shown
prior to the payment of debenture interest.
Increase in exes, has taken some of the shine
out of recent gross figures, and much of it is
beyond the control of the management. It
is all right for the present, but it is going
to make matters difficult when drought
shrivels the earnings. Wool handled totalled
306,828 bales, compared with 281,771 in the
previous year, and 163,884 in 1925. Here is
visible the influence of the Bagot, Shakes and
Lewis purchase. Last year’s demand left
a carry-over smaller than in any term since
the post-war resumption of sales.
The jump in advances affected balance-
sheet figures :
Liabilities.
1920. 1925. 1926. 1927.
£ £ £
Capital .. 773,010 1,500,000 1,750,000 1,750,000
Debentures . 1.504,648 1,435,678 1,434,658 1,430,388
Other liabili-
ties . . 118,411 824,223 813,211 1,098,624
Assets.
Liquid assets 647,455 638,906 1,023,287 774,264
Advances .. 1,967,430 3,631,158 3,687,113 4,397,223
P r 0 perties
and stock 220,723 316,544 345,500 307,701
P r e m ises,
etc. . . 212,803 592,492 634,049 512,802
Other assets 64,105 89,177 93,889 120,776
The debenture debt and amounts owing 011
open accounts were a trifle lighter, but de-
posits increased from £111,374 to £400,333,
and liquids—chiefly deposits and cash —were
more than a quarter million lighter. That
was to be expected ; more profitable use was
made of the money. However, although lia-
bilities are not troublesome, the management
can apparently see. still further “profitable
and safe business” in addition to last year’s
£710,110 expansion in advances. It is not
unlikely, of course, that some of the money
from the new issue may be used to work
down deposits. The debenture debt consists
of £848,445 of “A” stock and £581,943 of
“B,” carrying 4 p.c. and 5 p.c. respectively.
There is a primary reserve of £lOO,OOO as a
guarantee that the interest will be paid, and
a secondary reserve of £75,000 to comfort
holders if they ever work up any fears on
the subject. The general reserve, after
latest appropriation, will amount to
£1,300,000; there is £50,000 in an equalisa-
tion reserve; £20,000 in Brisbane premises
reserve; and £108,755 undistributed balance.
And the face value of the investments in the
primary reserve, which are in at £100,120.
is £129,300. Liquid assets at March 31 con-
sisted of public securities and accrued inter-
est. £369,658; cash. £335,479; deposits.
£10,000; bills receivable, £.19,127. The .15
p.e. divs. are worth little more than half
that much to the vast majority of share-
holders. However, there is little likelihood of
the rate being interfered with while the wool
market retains its present strength, and with
the. new issue of shares and the co.’s strong
position, clients as well as shareholders can
feel satisfied that the co. will stand up to
most knocks without flinching.
Sun Newspapers, Ltd. (Sydney) :
Towards
„ Re- Re-
Alar., Profits. Dividends. serves, servos.
1917. . £13,959 7p.c.= £13,860 £99 £10,133
1918.. 15,116 7 „ „ 14,745 371 10 504
1919.. 24,526 12* „ „ 23,750 776 11,280
Co. reconstructed. Assets written up and goodwill
assessed at £245.633. Three £1 shares paid to
17s. 6d. each issued for every £1 share previously
held. Goodwill is not treated as an asset hereunder.
Deficit.
£245 633
Add new co.’s preliminary exes., £3,048 248*681
1921.. £56,910 11.1 p.c.=£50,576 6,334 242,347
Goodwill transferred to Mel-
bourne co., £25,000 217 347
1922.. 103 100 13.3 p.c.— 77.922 ( , , 7 „ ’
Written off, £22.000 j 3,178 -14,109
1923.. 105,440 11.1 p.c.= 72.274 33,166 181,003
Goodwill items, £15,097 .. .. 196 100
1924.. 82,109 11.1 p.c.= 80,978 1,131 19L909
1925.. 116,655 11.1 ~ „ 97,316 19.339 175.630
1926.. 136,827 11.1 „ ~101,487 35,340 140,290
Reserve disappears, £12,500 .. .. 152,790
Reserves.
Realisation and removal reserve,
£297,059 . . . . . . . . 144 269
1927.. 148,581 13.3 p.c.=122;553 26,028 170,297
It was an outstanding year. Not only were
profits well beyond those of any previous 12
months, but the last of the assets in the
short-lived Melbourne subsidiary was cleared
off and the negotiations with Sydney City
Council over the resumption of the present
office site brought within reach of finality.
The Melbourne building was sold to Smith’s
Newspapers, Ltd.—for £115,000, according
to report; it stood at £152,014 in the last
balance-sheet issued by the Melbourne Sun
Co. The claim in respect of the resumption
of the co.’s Sydney offices makes clear the
costly nature of city improvements. The
amount is £592,810, consisting of: —
Land .. . . .. . . _ _ £123 340
Buildings, plant and machinery . . . . 324*522
Disturbance of business, etc. .. .. 144*948
The first item has been settled ; the second
is under discussion; the third is to be decided
by the courts.
The rapid growth of profits has increased
the popularity of the stock; the 12 p.c.
div. on the full value of the shares (they are
£1 paid to 18s.), equal to 13.6 p.e pa
was anticipated by the market which has
held pretty steadily at about 465. At that
price and on the basis of the present div.
the return is £5 16s. p.c. But of the 465., only
235. 9d. is represented by visible tangible
assets.
The claim in respect to the co.’s property
has resulted in drastic changes in balance-
sheet figures:—
1919. 1925. 1926. 1927.
Paid capital.. £ 196,910 £894,048 £894,094 £898,605
Liabilities .. 37,197 56,066 92,329 97,694
Premises .. 61,370 168,817 189,821 126,733
Plant, etc. .. 79,784 231,553 376,563 241,004
Stocks .. 86,703 87,632 123,141 118,657
Book debts .. 34,347 107,573 114,888 161,560
Cash, etc. . . 18,968 2,065 2,202 38,596
Investments . . 302,366 202,366 0,866
Goodwill . . 225,000 225,000 225,000
City Council claim 592,810
lii connection with freeholds (£03,000-odd
less), the year’s events were the part-
settlement of the claim regarding the
Castlereagh-street block; the erection of a
new building at Newcastle; the sale of the
Yurong-street freehold and the purchase of
the old Municipal Fish Markets in Woolloo-
mooloo. The last-mentioned houses the
emergency plant and paper stocks. “In-
vestments”—the Melbourne freehold was in
that lot—are in at £9866 compared with
£202,366 in 4926; and, in the movements, an
amount of £12,500 set aside from profits in
the previous year to “investment reserve”
lias disappeared. Plant and machinery were
£135,559 less, and there is the £592.810
shown as the co.’s claim against the City
Council. The appearance of the reserve
“Realisation of assets and removal of busi-
ness (net), £297.Ud0” balances the picture.
The co. has already progressed well with
the excavations for its new building, and,
if it can achieve the removal within the
figure it has sot down, there should be many
a bright div.-day for shareholders. The
co.’s . daily and Sunday issues are very
flourishing and the Newcastle subsidiary is
reported to be doing well.
Northern Steamship Co., Ltd., which
has its headquarters at Auckland (M.L.) :
To Re- Re-
March, Profits. Dividends. serves. serves.
1922.. £16,086 7 p.e; = £11,299 £4,787 £57,457
1923.. 30,497 7 „ „ 11,299 19,198 76.655
1924.. 17,265 7* „ ~ 12,106 5,159 81,814
1925.. 24,800 8 „ ~ 12,913 11,887 93,701
1926.. 14,342 8 ~ „ 12,913 1,429 95,130
1927.. 10,507 S „ „ 12,913 92,724
The accounts disclosed a profit of £13,116
after “making provision for depreciation,
insurance, income-tax, boiler and repairs
account.” But the co.’s practice of adding
to and subtracting from reserves, without
comment, results in the zig-zagging in the
profit column above. Last year insurance
reserve No. 1 dropped £2911; No. 2 account
added £3Ol. The boiler and repairs account
on this occasion suffered no change. The
fact that the 8 p.c. div. was maintained
suggests that the management was content
with results and with the outlook. Balance-
sheet movements were favorable :—-
1921. 1920. 1927.
Liabilities .. .. £83,426 £51,722 £58,373
Vessels, plant, etc. .. 196,821 189,299 180,303
Premises . . .. 13,671 11,962 11,697
Goal and stores .. 25,639 9,534 10,829
Investments . . .. 33,800 71,693 84.918
Book debts, etc. . . 33,227 32,232 31,218
Movements in investments suggest a prosper-
ous term, although their quality is not
stated: a new vessel is under construction,
and the amount thus far paid, £12,275, is
included in the chief assets item. From this
angle the progress is even more clearly dis-
cernible :
1921. 1927.
Assets, more or less liquid . . £92,666 £126.965
Liabilities .. .. .. .. 83,426 58,373
Surplus £9,240 £68,592
Prosperous conditions and increasing settle-
ment in the areas served by the company
arc assisting Northern Steam to a stronger
position, and if there has been little in it for
shareholders in the past, there now seem
to be reasonable probabilities of a steady
8 p.c. p.a.. despite the blank in the place
where the lay-by for the past year should be.
❖ *
The Country Producers’ Selling Co., .
Ltd. (Sydney):—
Bonus
to Con- Written Re-
March, Profit. Dividend. signors. Off. serves.
1917. .£9,081 7p.e. = £1750 £4,826 £lOOO £8,542
1918.. 8,626 7 „ „ 1750 5,383 500 9,535
1919.. 9,067 7 „ „ 1750 5,208 500 11,144
1920.. 15,186 8 ~ ~ 2000 8,092 1000 15,238
1921.. 2,373 Nil Nil Nil 17,611
1922.. 4,237 10 p.c. = 2500 4,307 500 14,541
1923.. 10.872 10 ~ „ 2500 6,880 16,033
1924.. 12,171 10 „ ~ 3750 7,434 17,020
Profit from sale of assets, £8742.. 25,762
Building depreciation reserve taken
in, £6OOO 31,762
1925.. 10,983 10 p.c. = 3750 6.972 32,023
1926.. 16,387 10 „ „ 6823 7.564 33,723
1927.. 21,738 10 „ ~ 7500 10,578 37,383
Some extra capital was got in during the
term, hut the wider influence resulting from
the share issue of 1925—the co. is semi-co-
operative, the maximum holding now being
1000 shares —played a bigger part, for the
shareholders are the co.’s principal eus-
tomers. Business has increased so substanti-
ally that the co. is under the necessity of
adding to its new wool warehouse. A record
was established in the amount of wool sold
Total sales of cattle and sheep were also
well in excess of the figures of earlier
years:—
Wool Gross
(bales). Sheep. Cattle. Earnings
1912 .. 32,046 319,316 14,208 £l9 21“’
1915 .. 41,961 385,918 24,123 29*7n
1920 ~ . 35,998 287,138 12,314 49’10s
1921 .. 25,697 238,426 15,507 35J103
1922 .. 34,009 220,509 17,168 43 850
19 2 3 . . 35,16 1 28 9,3 68 18,061 55,477
1924 .. 34,154 184,653 19,692 53,903
1925 .. 38,164 118,343 21,415 51 042
1926 .. 48,403 200,519 18,068 62,903
1927 .. 80,157 334,162 20,035 83,969
Refunds of commission were made on the
same scale as in the previous year—3o p.e.
to consignors of wool and 15 p.c. on produce
and stock. Wool prices were firm and cattle
values were maintained. The market for
sheep was weaker, due chiefly to the smaller
purchases of stores in the drought-affected
parts of Queensland: hence, so the directors
say, the reduced earnings of the stock de-
partment. Gross revenue was £21,066 greater
at £83,069 ; outgo increased by £13,964.
The balance-sheet position was quite com-
fortable. Bank overdraft (secured by mort-
gage) was £12,000-odd less, and sundry
creditors increased by £9680 to £63,505. The
co.’s freehold was in at £93,BB3sundry
debtors at £125,703; all other assets were
lumped at £10,150. It is obvious that the
co. is receiving good support from its
shareholders. Reserves have been built
up nicely: at March 31 they amounted to
£37,383 —equal to almost half of paid capi-
tal. The 10 p.c. seems normally certain.
This is a business, however, where solid re-
serves are necessary and the div. will be
safer from interruption when the moderate
capital is more substantially backed.
* * * X
Singapore Hume Pipe Co., Ltd. (the
co. started with £15.000 of capital represented
by goodwill and £4168 preliminary ex-
penses) :
To Re-
Mar., Profit. Dividends. serves. Deficit.
1923.. £959 Nil £959 £18,209
1924.. 9595 12* p.c. =£ 5000 4595 13,614
1925.. 1482 , Nil 1482 12,132
1926.. 8033 10 p.e. = 4000 4033 8,099
1927.. 7800 8 „ „ 3200 4600 3,499
Heavy floods in those parts of Malaya in
which the co. was operating caused extensive
wasliuways on the railways, and bailed up
work in the field. It was this delay which
interfered with profits, and the directors
say that prospects for the current year are
entirely satisfactory. This one of the Hume
cos. has done very well. Its profits have
not been distributed too freely, although
shareholders have averaged a fraction better
than 6 p.c. Of the 1926 earnings less than
half was handed to shareholders, £5OOO being
written off goodwill. Last year the slightly
less profits were treated somewhat simi-
larly ; but this time it was the div. that was
reduced. “Patent licence and goodwill” now
stands at £5000; the co. has written £14,168
off intangibles. A big portion of capital is
represented by plant, the value of which is
dependent almost entirely 011 the ability of
the co. to keep it working profitably Depre-
ciation is not specified, but there has been
a consistent reduction in the plant item; at
March 31 it was £2154 less than at the
previous balance. And as further contracts
are in the air, and as the co. has an eye on
Java and other fields, the outlook is far
from dull. Nothing further has been said
about calling up the ss. which remains out
standing on the 40,000 contribs.
Victorian Butter Factories Co-opera-
tive Co. (Melbourne) :
Dividends. Bonus to Written
April, Profit. (6 p.c.) Clients. Off. Reserves.
1917.. £3,322 £703 £696 £1025 £6,204
1918.. 10,823 710 3826 1218 11,273
1919.. 8,662 725 4684 1025 13,501
(10 p.c.)
1920.. 12,239 1219 3898 3521 17,102
Reserves capitalised, £12,191 . . 4.911
(6 p.c.)
1921.. 4,401 1455 500 7.327
1922.. 1,781 1486 500 7,122
1923.. 3,457 1486 750 8,343
1924.. 3,256 1496 750 9,353
1925. . 4,865 1496 1500 11,222
1926.. 3,092 1496 2000 10,818
7 p -°“
1927.. 5065 1745 3252 10.886
The writing off has been solid, and as very
fair reserves have boon built up the increase
in the div. is not objectionable, even though
the balance-sheet position is still only moder-
ately strong:—
1910. 1921. 1924. 1927.
Capital . . . . £3,230 £24,747 £24,930 £24,930
Liabilities.. .. 25,247 42,667 43,434 40,507
Premises and plant 18,821 38,980 30,368 31,075
Stocks . . . . 5,734 11,079 3,853 2,385
Book debts . . 6,708 22,393 23,243 24.038
Cash and War Loan 5,224 214
Shares in other cos., etc. 1,280 22,933 25,422
On such a small capital, even though sup-
ported by reserves, it has been impossible
to build and equip freezing-works without
leaning on the co.’s bankers, and on April
30 it owed them £32.805. It also held £5284


The Lilt of the Hoof-padder.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
1 rampin’ up the valley, or through plains of stumpy
mallee,
Where the scrub is twice as thick as smoke in Hell,
With my old soot-coated billy an’ my leather-
twisted Tilly
I can laugh at every collared city swell;
For I ain’t set movin’ onward by the everlastin’ John,
An’ I puts my foot down easy where it won’t get
trodden on,
An’ no wowser comes and tells me that my charnst
of bliss is gone,
An’ I quite fergit that Eve an’ Adam fell.
Where there ain’t no motors hootin’ an’ no ferry-
boats a-tootin’,
An’ my piller isn’t full of blasted fleas;
Where there ain’t no pub expenses an’ my walls is
two-rail fences,
I can sleep as deep as Tophet’s cellaries;
An’ I waken in the mornin’ fit ter break a mountain
nag,
An’ 1 eat a hearty breakfast from my soogee tucker
bag,
An’ I whistle light and blithely as I pick my humble
swag
An’ the birds are callin’ “Mornin !” in the trees.
When the evenin’ breeze is blowin’, and it sets my
log a-glowin’,
An’ it wakes a host of fairies in the smoke,
An’ the scent of long lush grasses fills my senses as
it passes,
I can sympathise with simple city folk.
For they can’t hear God Almighty where there’s
such a hellish row,
An’ they never hear the flute-voiced magpie singin’
down there now,
An’ they don’t know if the ’ump is on a camel or a
cow,
An’ they couldn’t tell a blood-’orse from a moke.
When my travellin’ days are endin’ an’ I find the
track a-bendin’
Round the foothills of Almighty’s Great Divide,
May my Maker find me ready, an’ my tread be firm
and steady,
When I’m makin’ for the country t’other side;
An’ I hope that when I git there my travellin
won’t be over,
An’ I’ll see the track a-windin’ through a field of
scented clover,
An’ I’ll always ’ump my bluey like a gay dare-devil
rover,
With my mates who wandered off the track and
died.
x.s.w.
ROBERT MUIR.


DON’T LOSE MONEY-
MAKE IT!
The
“ ‘Wild Cat’ Monthly’’
Enlarged and Improved.
JUNE NUMBER NOW ON SALE.
Invaluable to Every Share-dealer.
SINGLE COPY, 2/-
PER ANNUM, 22/6.
Principal Newsagents,
or
“The Bulletin” Offices,
Sydney or Melbourne.
We stock -f- GF -)- Malleable Fittings to suit
every requirement, and as there are over 7500
varieties to choose from, we can accommodate any
trade. For water, steam or gas. Will not split or
crack, and are correct in every detail. Obtainable
fiom William Adams & Co., Ltd., Sole Agents,
Sydney, Newcastle, Melbourne, Brisbane, Adelaide,
Perth. — Advt.
sfc He * *
To expedite all operations attending the installation
of any pipe line, use Pioneer Wood Pipe. It is many
times lighter than metal pipes, carries a full flow
of water permanently, is practically indestructible,
and does not rust nor corrode. Pioneer Wood Pipe
is used extensively by leading engineers all over the
Commonwealth, maintains absolute water purity and
is easily handled with practically unskilled labor.
The Australian Wood Pipe Co., Ltd., Burns Bay
Road. Lane Cove (Ferry to Figtree), N.S.W.; and at
Footscray, Victoria. — Advt.
* * *
WIRE ROPES—AUSTRALIAN MADE—Prices and
particulars from Bullivants’ Australian Co., Ltd..
331-333 Kent Street, Sydney; B. K. Morton Pro-
prietary, Ltd., 85 Clarence Street, Sydney; J. R.
Reid and Sons, 401-403 Kent Street, Sydney, Success-
fully used all over the Commonwealth for all pur-
poses. — Advt.
* H= * *
Inventors. —Have you an idea worth patenting?
Griffith & Hassel, Patent Attorney, 77 Castlereagli
Street, Sydney, obtain Commonwealth and foreign
patents. — Advt.
ijc * * *
IDEAS—Commonwealth and Foreign Patents
obtained. Colmson & Co., 483 Collins St’-eet, -Mel-
bourne. and Adelaide. Thirty veais' practice. Write
us for Inventors’ Guide. — Advt.
* * * *
If you are a producer of ores, mattes, metals and
metalliferous residues of . any - kind, Burkard and
Co., Ltd., 26-30 Bridge Street, Sydney, are buyers
for U.K., Continent of Europe and U.S.A. smelters,
and will pay you the highest prices and give you
best terms. Advances made against ore —and market
information, prices, assays at your disposal. Send
samples and particulars.— Advt.
* * * 4=
Leplastriers’ Concrete Mixers —of all necessary
sizes—are designed and manufactured in Australia by
expert engineers. Apply Goldsbrouglr House, Sydney;
Collins House, Melbourne; 164 Edward Street, Bris-
bane : or 21 Morphett Street, Adelaide. — Advt.
The Mutual Life and Citizens’
Assurance Co. Ltd.
The
Probate Contract.
THIS . INVESTMENT TO MEET THE
INEVITABLE DEATH DUTIES.
As a man’s wealth accumulates he
should assist his executors by taking- out
one of these contracts. They are issued
on a basis highly profitable to his estate,
besides providing the necessary cash to
meet the very substantial Death Duties
(State or Federal) on deceased estates,
without disturbing existing investments,
or necessitating heavy borrowing for
the purpose, a course which is bound
to involve a lengthy delay in the distri-
bution of the estate to the Legatees.
JOHN J. GARVAN,
Managing Director.
6^
&
YG
boord&son
FINEST DRY GIN
&. OLD TOM „
Lgwtft & Company Ltd.. Australasian Agents. 26 30 Clarence St.. Sydney 1]
Be
DT
Insure with the
Australian Mutual Fire Insurance Society, Limited.
ESTABLISHED 1872.
Head Office * Dalton House, 115 Pitt Street Sydney.
The Oldest Mutual Fire Office in Australia.
Support the Australian Company which invests all its Funds in Australia.
Losses from Fire, Marine, Personal Accident, Workmen’s Compensation,
Motor Car, Plate-Glass Breakage, Burglary, Guarantee, Live Stock,
Crops, Stacks, Hailstone, etc., Covered at Lowest Kates.
VICTORIAN BRANCH, 50 Queen Street, Melbourne.
QUEENSLAND BRANCH, 113 Eagle Street, Brisbane.
CLAIMS PROMPTLY AND EQUITABLY SETTLED.
AGENTS IN ALL PRINCIPAL COUNTRY TOWNS.
SYDNEY H. CARY, J.P., Chairman. G. HOWARD POPE, General Manager.
Queensland
Insurance Co.
Ltd.
Head Office:
Pitt & Bridge Streets,
Sydney.
The Largest
Australian Company
transacting
Fire, Marine, Personal
Accident and Sickness,
Burglary, Live Stock,
Public Risk, Boiler Ex-
plosion, Workers’ Com*
pensation, etc., etc.
of deposits and owed £2418 on open accounts.
To represent the creditor items were book
debts and stocks amounting to £26,423;
snares in the Co-operative Box Co., £16,810,
and in the Co-operative Insurance, £7500;
plus the fixed assets and odds and ends.
Earnings have been in-and-out, and this
Column wouldn’t guarantee even a 7 p.c.
dividend. However, most of the shareholders
would be substantial gainers by the co.’s
operations even if the dividend-sheet was a
blank.
Westralia’s oil prospects are very much
down at heel. Only Freney’s out of about 50
original “concessions” is doing any genuine
work, and its chances of a payable discovery
seem to shrink every day. Most of the other
concessions in the State are being shepherded
in the hope that oil will one day be struck
on Freney’s, enabling holders to sell out
during the boom that would inevitably fol-
low.
* t- * *
W.A. Mines Department report for last
year tells the old story of decreased produc-
tion and less men employed. A few small
centres are credited with insignificant in-
creases, but the remaining fields record de-
creases. Ivalgoorlie is again responsible for
the great bulk of the mineral yield and con-
tinues to give employment to about half the
men engaged in the industry. Coal alone
shows an increased output. “Sympathetic
consideration and generous financial assist-
ance” having failed to check the decline in
gold production, Minister for Mines Munsie
suggests the taking up of debentures in com-
panies clamoring loudest for help. Such
assistance, Munsie thinks, might enable the
owners who profess to be unable to do any-
thing without Governmental backing to raise
sufficient capital in London to rehabilitate
the industry.
* * * *
Tarcoola Blocks Co. (W.A.) has decided
to shut down until the price of lead im-
proves. The co. has exposed a payable lode
of good length in the Springvale, Northamp-
ton, and recently installed a treatment plant
costing about £5OOO. Last year, when the
price of lead was higher, Northampton showed
a little activity, but is almost paralysed
again.
s': s|c #
Pleased with prospects underground and
an improvement in pilot-plant extraction
Wiluna (W.A.) is urging early fulfilment
of the State Government’s promise to build a
line from one of the three present termini- —-
Leonora, Meekatbarra and Sandstone. It
estimates ore reserves at 686,000 tons assay-
ing 41s. 3d. per ton, and claims to have much
more undeveloped down to that depth. Below
300 ft. the mine is untouched.
* * * *
While its Canadian gold and silver mines
continue to earn good profits Associated
manages to earn just about enough at Kal-
goorlie to keep out of debt. Years ago
shareholders were advised that with mill
supplies harder to pick and costs mounting
the end was not far off; but, managed by
a thrifty Scot, it still keeps going. South
Kalgurli is the only big gold mine in the
West that is doing well. No sooner is one
section of the reserves used up than another
new one takes its place. The tonnage now
in sight places the mine well ahead of the
mill and the market continues skittish. On
figures, however, a buyer requires confid-
ence in the mine to pay the present seller’s
price. Of course optimists declare that the
management has something up its sleeve.
What certainly is a' fact is that a mine
like this takes a long while to utterly exhaust,
even after the main crop has been taken.
* # * *
Pilbara’s latest tin discovery is not far
from two old and formerly good producing
fields. Jock Thomson, ex-M.L.A., who is
an interested party, claims that at 80ft. down
the Tabba Tabba ore is worth £l6 per ton,
and he has induced a London crowd to join
him in testing the find. Pilbara, despite its
widespread mineral deposits—gold, tin, cop-
per, lead, asbestos and mica—has not
prospered in recent years. Inaccessibility
and costly transport are the chief reasons.
The field is the farthest north of all W.A.’s
producers.
* * * *
Copper Separation. Ltd. (W.A.), has been
added to the list of missing mining specs.
Some time ago the co. induced an Adelaide
syndicate to purchase a few thousand reserve
£1 shares at par, and then got the West-
ralian Government to lend it £4OOO. Most
of this money was spent on a plant at
Ravensthorpe, capable of doing wonders in
theory but a dud in practice. When last
heard of the co. was trying to raise more capi-
tal in London.
* * * *
Westralia backs up Queensland in its
request for a minimum bounty of £lO a ton
on refined copper. There are several para-
lysed copper-fields in tho West, but it is
doubtful if the suggested bounty would im-
prove the condition of a single one of them
with copper at its present price. One gener-
ally-overlooked point is whether it isn’t plain
foolishness to encourage the production of
a metal at a time when the market is hostile,
seeing that by waiting for better conditions
it might presently be worked at a real profit.
Why shouldn’t the tailor, left with a large
quantity of summer-weight tweeds at the end
of March, ask for a subsidy so that he might
get rid of them during the winter without
making a loss?
* :fe * *
Queensland Minister for Mines, in response
to northern representations having in view
the reopening of the Cliillagoe smelters on
a smaller scale, has promised to have a
mineral survey of the surrounding districts
made at an early date. The result will
presumably decide the Cabinet whether it
is worth while starting again. Data as to
available ores will have to largely depend,
however, on past mining records, for all
mines and prospects are abandoned —tem-
porarily at least—and it is unlikely that
they will be unwatered until there is a defin-
ite prospect of resumption. The question is
bound up, too, with the possibility of arrang-
ing an economical lay-out or reconstruction
of the existing smelting plant, for Cliillagoe
can scarcely claim to have been run in the
past on bedrock costs. Just when the shut-
ters went up Redcap mine was beginning to
show well with a big body of easy smelting
ore. Further surface workings around the
defunct Girofla may also be capable of put-
ting in some very sweet stuff. The position
is not hopeless by any means.
* * * *:*
Irvinebank’s old Jumna tin mine (N.Q.)
has been reopened. The winding plant is
completed and the mine dewatered to 300fb,
which is somewhere about the bottom of the
old workings. Tho bottom level shows a
low-grade formation carrying 2 p.c. ore over
a width of 10ft. This is not good enough
until the mine gets an up-to-date battery,
and the manager is looking for better stuff.
It has produced very rich ore in past days
and should do so 'again if given a chance
of fair development.
$ $
Gyrnpie was mildly interested in a re-
ported gold find at Cooran, a few miles away.
Several rich pieces of gold-bearing quartz
were found in mountainous country among
the banana-farms, and their resemblance to
Gyrnpie ore was thought to connote the possi-
bility of an extension of its auriferous coun-
try out that way. Although a little further
prospecting lias been done, the find has not
thus far been followed by anything else of
value.
* * * ❖
The Castle Dredging Co., operating near
Kangaroo Hills (N.Q.), has disappointed
its admirers so far. After a pretty solid
capitalisation to ensure water supply, the
first clean-up was poor, but the manager
then expressed the intention of getting on
to some better wash. Big values had come
in past days from various boring outfits —
51b. dirt was talked of. The latest return
runs into 15,000 tons of overburden and
wash and it yielded barely five tons of con-
centrates, value £lO5O. And now unless
they soon get rain they are faced with a
shortage of water.
-•!= =|: * *
Queensland Antimony, Northcote (N.Q.),
is proposing a union with the Minnie Mox-
ham in the hope of thus getting out of a diffi-
cult position. Shares nominally worth £5OOO
are said to be the consideration offered. Minnie
Moxham is a gold-antimony lode which has
had a chequered career and has swallowed
much private capital and Government sub-
sidy in years gong by. Returns have been
good at times. The lode has been worked
to a depth of 230 ft. at least, at which it
was 4ft. wide. Crushing between 1914 and
1922 averaged about 2ioz. per ton.
* * * *
Lawn Hills (N.Q.) silver-lead; field has
only one mine working now. High freight
and handling charges and low lead market
have helped to strangle the rest. Solid galena
is the only ore that can be sent away, and
it needs to have a fair ingredient of silver.
The Silver King is being worked just below
the grass roots and it has produced about
200 tons of ore the last few months. What
has gone forward assayed 75 p.c. lead and
48oz. silver. No field in the world could
supply that grade of lead for more than a
few weeks.
* * * =!=
Duke Mine, Ravenswood (N.Q.), after
building up a little cash in the bank, seems
to have swallowed a peck of trouble. Visions
of a 6in. reef worth lOoz. have broken —the
reef keeps splitting up into tiny fractions.
Values, too, have dropped, the last in No.
5 footwall being soz. and 2oz. respectively.
The No. 3 crosscut is being driven with a
view of testing the reef above the hanging-
wall stopes. The last clean-up gave 1320 z.
and 8 tons concentrates from 52 tons ore.
* * * =i=
A. Volkman’s complaint as to “10s.
wharfage and harbor dues” charged on a
shipment of ore (B. 9/6/’27) has brought
this statement from the secretary of the
Townsville Harbor Board :
Harbor dues and wharfage charges upon ore are
as follows: Townsville —Inward, 2s. per ton; out-
ward, Is. 6d. per ton; transhipment, Is. per ton.
Cairns —If imported for treatment and afterwards
exported: inward rate —free; outward ss. per ton.
If not imported for treatment: inward rate os. per
ton; outward 3s. lOd. per ton. Transhipment:
direct, Bd. per ton; indirect (i.e., when discharged
on to a wharf), 2s. per ton.
* * * *
At Buchan (Vic.), west of the Snowy
River, F. J. Knight and party have found
an alluvial gold lead which looks important.
The sinking to the pipeclay bottom is from
60 to 100 feet, and it has from 40 to 100
feet of gravel from top to bottom. The
ancient river-bed has been traced from Mt.
Tara northwards towards Buchan for 71
miles and the lead is estimated to be 10 to
30 chains wide. It is only about 16 miles
from Nowa Nowa railway-station. Knight
says it resembles the Kiandra (N.S.W.) lead.
* * * *
Burma Malay Tin, a Sydney prospecting
and holding co. registered in the F.M.S. in
1925, and the parent of Katu T. D. Co., is
out with another float. This is Renong
Consolidated, with a nominal capital of
£200,000 in £1 shares. Burma Malay holders
take two Renong shares for each share held
in the parent co. The new co.’s area is
miles north of the British-owned Ban-
grin Tin, which has been showing excellent
returns. Estimated area is 30,600,000 c.y.;
average depth, 33 feet; average value, .721 b.
oxide per c.y. A dredge with the jigs and
classifiers which are now an essential part
of every modern Malayan dredge equipment,
and capable of taking out 150,000 yards per
month, is to be installed. The property has
been carefully bored, and chairman E. N.
Mulligan, himself a mining engineer, and
1. W. Osborne, managing director on the
field, have a reputation for soundness.
Katu Tin, the other Burma Malay infant,
was formed in Sydney last November, with
a capital of £160,000 in £1 shares. The area
of 553 acres is near Puket. Boring results
by E. N. Mulligan and H. P. Buckley show-
-401 acres of .871 b. ground. The tin-oxide
(72 p.c.) is coarse and easily saved; 100
p.c. of bore values is expected. Dredge con-
tract has been let, and delivery is expected
to commence in September. The dredge is
of the Diesel-electric type with a capacity
of 125,000 c.y. per month.
* # *
Selayang is threatening to start its dredge
early in July. Promoted by British Malayan
Tin in December, 1924, the co. has a capital
of £140,000 in £1 f.-p. shares. Many a head
has been shaken over it chiefly because of the
limestone pinnacles which are the dread of
Malayan dredging cos. Following on the
report of F. W. Payne and Son of London,
who first bored the property, and returned an
average value of .61b. to the c.y., Malcolm
Newman went over the ground and sized it
up as going .81b. to .91b. The depth aver-
ages 50ft. The dredge is British-built, and
has been designed to go down 50ft. Jigs
and classifiers are, of course, installed. The
dredge is expected to turn over 150,000 c.y.
per month. The market still views the pro-
position with some doubt, though the shares
have recovered from the low level of a year
ago.
* * * *
Tinsongkhla, which first saw the light in
Melbourne in F ebruary, 1u26, under the wing
of A. W. Palfreyman and Ambrose Pratt,
hopes to have its dredge completed by the end
of next April. The co.’s area, acquired from
Eastern Options, is acres in Southern
Siam, and boring tests showed from 17oz. to
141 oz. with depths from 16ft. to 50ft. The
contents are set down at 9,250,000 c.y., the
oxide assaying 75 p.c. metallic. Werf Con-
rad is building a 140,000 c.y. bucket dredge.
* t'fi
The U.S.A. is the world’s best customer
for tin, taking 65 p.c. of the world’s produc-
tion. As Tiie Bulletin hinted some months
ago might be the case, the American
demand for tin during the first half of 1926
has not been up to normal. From some unex-
plained cause, American food canners have
had a lot of stock left on their hands this
year, and until it is cleared they are pack-
ing less than usual. As a result tinplate
production is down to SO per cent, of normal,
and will soon be at 60 per cent. The auto,
trade, the other big customer, is also ca’ing
canny—it is watching for a weaker market
and meantime buying as little as possible.
This to a great extent accounts for the
downward slide of prices this year.
“George Physical” :—-
The reported failure of an electrical ore-finder at
Kalg-oorlie proves nothing unless accompanied by
details. The science of geo physics, now 20 years
old, cannot be classed with spirit rapping and water
divining. Many cumbersome trials and tests of all
kinds of instruments have been made in Europe,
chiefly in Germany, and a number of successful
instruments have been invented to apply at least
, eight distinct methods of underground surveying by
i magnetic measurements, and those of density and
; specific gravity. The field of geo-physics covers
i many different properties concerning magnetism,
electricity, gravitation, geothermic, acoustic, seismic
, and radio-active conditions. Of these the gravity,
. the magnetic, the electric and the seismic are reli-
able in practice. The two systems of which this
writer has full information are the Oertling
Eotvos torsion balance, an English contrivance, and
the Elbof electrical prospecting method, both of
which are extending their activities throughout the
world. The Elbof method has been successfully
employed in locating underground bodies of coal,
lignite, lead, copper, zinc, magnetite, copper pyrites,
mineral oil, graphite and steatite. It is necessary
to catalogue these searches, and, given space, letters
could be quoted announcing success in each instance.
There is no need to fish for Ernest Lidgey’s despised
instrument at the bottom of the shaft. Let it lie
there. Geo-physics ought to be taken seriously,
especially in the search for coal and oil.
* * * *
“Wynbye’s” view:—
The conclusions of “Prospector” (B. 9/6/’27) as
regards the source of the alluvial gold at Gyrnpie
are probably correct, but he is on a duffer when he
infers that all alluvial gold has come from the
denudation of lodes, reefs and mineralised formations.
There is ample evidence that the gold in some of the
deep leads in Westralia was deposited direct from
solutions. The water carrying the gold in solution
ran along these old channels and the gold was
deposited in a metallic form when it came into
contact with a reagent. The result of this chemical
action was noticeable at the Ivanhoe Venture at
Boulder, and also at the North Lead, Kanowna. The
conglomerates are another prolific source of the gold
that is found in the river gravels. There are mam-
places where evidence can be had of this: the Palmer
(N.Q.) and the Nullagine (W.A.) are two. At the
Nullagine large masses of the goldbearing conglo-
merate are undergoing the process of denudation. The
gold in these Nullagine conglomerates has all the
features of reef gold, and was evidently deposited
from its solutions in the same manner as the gold
in the North Lead at Kanowna. A deposit of con-
glomerate on the old Golden Cement leases near
Dunnsville, Coolgardie, is a good object lesson for
the study of the geology and chemistry of this class
of gold occurrence.


The First Public-Subscribed
Underwriting Company
established in
The Southern Hemisphere!
Very rarely is such a sound proposition placed before investors. Here is a company turning over a large volume of business
with a comparatively small capital—taking an important part in the commercial and trade expansion of Australia—firmly
entrenched in each capital city—with present and future business of sufficient quality and quantity to ensure the payment
of substantial dividends on the first year’s trading. Investing in this proposition is investing in a business already established,
a business whose future is assured.
METROPOLITAN UNDERWRITERS (AUSTRALASIA) LTD.
Nominal Capital £250,000
Divided into 250,000 shares of £1 each.
OBJECTS: The Company is being formed to purchase and otherwise acquire and take over as a
going concern the trade, business, goodwill and all the assets of the firm of
Metropolitan Underwriters, Limited, which has already earned the full confidence of
the investing public of Australia. The objects of the Company are, inter alia, to sell
shares on commission, to underwrite shares or debenture issues of companies, to
underwrite issue of debentures and loans generally, and to negotiate the placing of
debentures or raising of loans on commission.
230,000 ordinary shares of £1 each are to be offered to the public under this prospectus, payable
1/- on application, 1/- on allotment, and the balance in calls of not more than 1/-
per share at intervals of not less than one month.
20,000 ordinary shares of £l each are to be issued as fully paid to the Vendors of the Company,
Metropolitan Underwriters, Limited, or their nominees, in full payment for the assets
sold to the Company. These shares will be issued, 1 5,000 shares upon registration and
5000 shares when 100,000 shares have been subscribed and allotted.
DIRECTORS:
ALFRED B. FOSSEY, Esq., Merchant, 64 York Street and 40 George Street, Sydney.
CECIL W. BENNETT, Esq., Business Manager, Suttie Road, Bellevue Hill, Woollahra.
THOMAS HENRY ABBOTT, Esq., Retired Bank Manager, Bundara Road, Bellevue Hill.
EDWARD BEALE, Esq., Contractor, I Bond Street, Sydney.
EDWARD M. DAVIES, Esq., Company Director, 26 Kulgoa Road, Bellevue Hill, Managing Director.
BANKERS:
COMMERCIAL BANK OF AUSTRALIA, LTD.,
2 73 George Street, Sydney.
AUDITORS:
MESSRS. P. L. de MONCHAUX & CO.,
Dalton House, I 1 5 Pitt Street, Sydney.
SOLICITOR:
W. H. DREW, Esq.,
Dalton House, 1 1 5 Pitt Street, Sydney.
GENERAL MANAGER:
GEO. ROBERTS,
99 Pitt Street, Sydney.
SECRETARY AND OFFICE, pro tem.:
C. K. HERRING, A.A.A.C., 99 Pitt Street, Sydney.
BRANCH MANAGERS AND OFFICES:
QUEENSLAND: C. Ross Patterson, Rothwell Chambers, Edward Street, Brisbane.
VICTORIA: W. C. Nash, Chancery House, 440 Little Collins Street, Melbourne.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA: H. E. Hickman, Steamship Buildings, Currie Street, Adelaide.
WESTERN AUSTRALIA: H. K. Watson, Sheffield House, Hay Street, Perth.
Consider these Points
1. The Company being taken over is well-
established and thoroughly organised
throughout Australia. For the 9 months
ending the 31st March, 192 7, the total
income was approximately £40,000.
2. The new Company will take over contracts
on which a considerable amount of work
has been done. It will commence operations
with profitable business in hand.
3. NO CASH CONSIDERATION is being paid
to the Vendors, who will be satisfied by the
ISSUE OF SHARES IN FULL PAYMENT
for the goodwill and assets of the old" Com-
pany.
4. In a growing country like Australia there is
urgent need of a large Underwriting Com-
pany conducted by experts on sound busi-
ness lines. A great deal of the phenomenal
progress and prosperity of the United States
is due to the fact that new enterprises were
enabled to secure their necessary capital
easily and quickly. In England the large
underwriting firms have controlled the
world’s parity. Metropolitan Underwriters
will be in a position to choose only the best
business offering, and will be underwriters
in fact as well as in name.
No investor, large or small, can afford to overlook this proposition, where the income is large and the expense is small.
The basis on which the ordinary shares are offered brings them within the reach of everybody, and a quick response from
investors is anticipated. A prospectus and full particulars may be obtained by writing to the Secretary, 99 Pitt Street,
Sydney. Send your letter to-day.
Metropolitan Undemiters
(AUSTRALASIA) Ltd.
L, OFFICE: 99 PITT STREET, SYDNEY. ,


Usher’s Hotel Ltd
Castlereagh Street, Sydney.
A first-class new and up-to-date
modern hotel.
Running hot and cold water in all bid-
rooms and many have Bath de Luxe.
Automatic bedside telephones.
English and Trench Cuisine.
New Marble Bar, spacious and airy.
For perfection of service, comfort
and cleanliness, Usher’s Ltd. is un-
equalled.
Inclusive Terms, apply
MANAGER
BEAUTIFUL, ENDURING WEDDING GIFTS
Coffee Sets and Tray, all pieces extra-heavily silver-plated on hard white metal,
complete with two cups and saucers of fine, white Doulton ware, £4/8/-
Distinctive gifts of modern style and fine-quality are ranged in pro-
fusion in our showrooms. Beautiful crystal, everlasting silver, hand-
some tortoiseshell, etc. —all at prices lower than you might reason-
ably expect for such excellent quality.
FAIRFAX & ROBERTS, LTD.,
The Oldest Jewellery House in Sydney, 23 and 25 Hunter Street.
PLAIN FIGURES CASH ONLY.
SHELCOTE
NEUTRAL BAY, SYDNEY.
Modern Private Hotel.
Unsurpassed Harbor Views,
Tennis Court, Swimming Bath,
Billiards.
Guests’ Own Laundry.
Excellent Cuisine,
MODERATE TARIFF.
’Phone X 1621.
Telegrams, etc.: “Shelcote,” Neutral Bay, Sydney.
PERSONAL
ITEMS
GLOBE
MEAT EXTRACT
GLOBE BRAND
“BILLY” CONLEY, General-manager of
the S. M. Herald, the only man not a
Fairfax ever a Director of the Fairfax
company.
Bob Wallace, who is to be the new Vice-
Chancellor at Sydney Uni., was 30 when he
became Professor of English Language and
Literature at Melbourne Uni. 15 years ago.
He enlisted in the A.I.F. as a full private.
Since 1922 he has been Chief Film Censor for
the Commonwealth; and in no country has
a difficult job been better done.
Estate of J. B. O’Hara, Australian poet,
has been valued for probate at £9413. But
it didn’t come from writing verse.
Ranji has become associated with Aus-
tralia again, this time as a buyer of stud-
sheep. Over 150 rams and ewes from
Boonoke have been loaded at Melbourne
addressed to the veteran run-getter. When
they reach India, his own ship will carry
them to his own port.
South Australia lost its oldest inhabitant
when Miss Marianne Fisher passed out last
week. She was a girl of nine when her
parents arrived in 1836 in the Buffalo, char-
tered to bring the colonists to the new settle-
ment, and her death removes the last of that
band of pioneers.
Jack Beasley, appointed president of
N.S.W. Electrical Licensing Board, served
his apprenticeship for an executive job as
president of the Sydney Labor Council. On
the technical side, his qualification is that he
was a City Council electrician. Donald
Black, who becomes one of the temporary
members of the board, was secretary to the
Electrical Trades Union from its earliest
days. It’s a good year for union bosses.
Though reported drowned at sea 35 years
ago, and more recently as having died a
natural death, Captain Bill Bennett, a vet-
eran of the olil Loch line, has just passed
his 82nd milestone. He was master of the
Loch Vennacliar when she was dismasted in
the early ’nineties, but got off her before she
was finally wrecked. That happened a year
and a half after he had stepped on to an-
other bridge.
D. C. Bates, the little ex-parson who has
been Maoriland’s weather-prophet for two
generations, has been so useful to the farmers
that on his retirement a few weeks ago
they raised a lusty protest. So a new possy
as “climatologist” has been found for Bates,
and in future he will watch the barometer
solely in the interests of the man on the
land.
If Labor remains in power for a session
or so in Vic. there’ll be a bust of Iligin-
botham alongside that of Deakin in Queen’s
Hall. Iliginbotham, as William Shiels said,
“never had a peer in the public life of
Victoria in rectitude of aim and purpose.”
His memory clings to the building, but
though it is 35 years since the grave closed
over him Victoria has not honored his)
memory with a statue.
A pioneer of the City of Dreadful Height
that Sydney is fated to become passed with
the death of Bob Wall, doyen of Sydney
builders. Culwulla Chambers in Castle-
reagh-street, which was Sydney’s first sky-
scraper, was Wall’s work; he piled many
buildings to the 150-feet limit subsequently.
Although over 87 years, 41 of them spent in
Australia, he went on working practically
up to the time of Lis death.
George and William Brookman, of Adel-
aide, were the principal members of the
syndicate which 34 years ago took up the
richest part of what was to become known as
Westralia’s Golden Mile. William was;
prominent for a time in the public life of
Jarrahland, but faded into obscurity after
a hectic mayoralty of Perth; George kept
liis head and most of his money, and was
a noted figure in Adelaide for the rest of
his days. He gave generously, but with
discrimination, one of his donations being
£15,000 to the Adelaide School of Mines;
and he became chairman of the Adelaide
Electric Lighting Co., director of the Bank
of Adelaide, an M.L.C. and a knight. Re-
cruiting, repatriation and hospital work were
among his many activities. He was 77 when
the end came the other day.
Fred Mazlin, of Cairns (N.Q.), who has
been decorated with the gold badge of the
R.5.5.1.L.A., is one of a very few Diggers
to receive the bauble, which is issued for
continuous service of 10 years as a League
official. Mazlin has worked hard for returned
men and built up a flourishing branch at
Cairns.
.Matthew Brodie, R.C. Bishop of Christ-
church (M.L.), has been revisiting Sydney.
Son of an Auckland publican, and a tee-
totaller, as so many sons of publicans are,
Brodie was grounded at the Marist Brothers'
College at Hunter’s Hill. He was the first
graduate of the Cardinal’s College at Manly
to be elevated to the hierarchy, getting the
job after the death of the English-born but
French-trained “Johnny” Grimes a decade
ago. Before that he was a power at Waihi
(M.L.) and was largely instrumental in
settling the big goldfields strike 20 years ago.
He is just on 60.
A. H. Whittingham, who died in Brisbane
a day or two ago, at 58, was one of that
later generation of Queensland pastoralists
who, by intensive breeding and modern meth-
ods, have done so much to improve the
quality of the northern merino. Born in
Maoriland, Whittingham came to Victoria
with his people in the early ’7o’s, and his
father and an uncle acquired Alice Downs,
on the Upper Barcoo. From Geelong Gram-
mar School he went to Cambridge to take
up medicine, but his father’s death brought
him back to the Barcoo property. With
his brother Harold he bought out the family
interest in the run in 1904, after the big
drought; later he bought out his brother.
A Queensland M.L.C., lie had much to do
with northern politics till the Chamber was
abolished, and he had many interests as a
director of pastoral companies, as well as
being president of the Q. United Graziers’
Association for 12 years. He was also an
official of the Q.T.C. Among the many good
horses he himself raced were Lordacre,
Bronzewing and Duninald.
Tom Keele’s dream of harnessing the
Snowy River to provide water, light and
power for Sydney and the south-eastern
towns of N.S.W. has lost its dreamer.
He went out at 77 last week after a three
Commissioner IT. B. McILVENEY, head
of the M.L. Police Force.
months' illness. Joining the Harbor and
Rivers branch of the N.S.W. Works Depart-
ment as an engineering cadet, Keele had a
lot to do with Sydney’s water supply. His
ideas on the subject brought him into con-
flict with Works Minister Lee over the
Cataract reservoirs, but a Royal Commission
reckoned the engineer knew more than the
Minister did. Keele was president of the
Water Board at the time; in 1908 he
became a Commissioner of the Harbor Trust,
but two years ago he returned to a seat on
the Water Board. Keele’s two sons are
engineers, and one of his daughters is the
wife of King Butters, of Canberra.
Von Luckner, who is to revisit Maoriland
soon, could tell some interesting yarns of
his raiding days. When he took the wheel
of one captured schooner he found his name
on it, carved by himself when he sailed in
her years before. After being captured Von
Luckner and five of the See Adler’s com-
pany were sent to Auckland. The military
guard on the Talune were all seasick, and
there was a trying moment when the six
burly Germans were exercising on deck with
the guard so ill they could not hold their
rifles. A resourceful officer had all the
rifles placed in safety till the guard recovered,
Glasgow has been rejoicing lately over the
statuary on a new bridge which was executed
by Paul Montford, .the Australian sculptor.
One expert described it as a “sheer joy.”
Montford has been mainly kicking his heels
in Melbourne, ever since he came there to
fulfil the work for the belated war memorial.
One of his intermittent pieces is the grace;
ful Peter Pan in the Alexandria Gardens,
but original sculpture isn’t much regarded by
public bodies in this country. Montford is
the sculptor mentioned in a recent Bulletin
as engaged in putting fresh fingers and
noses on the dreadful plaster copies of
ancient masterpieces that desecrate Mel-
bourne’s public places.
The Australian Board of Missions lost its
star organiser when George Edward Down-
ton went to where missions are not neces-
sary. Victorian-born, Downton abandoned
a promising business career to enter the
Church. Brown Brother in New Guinea
got a taste of his quality till malaria took
its toll. Then the young man joined St.
Aidan’s College in Ballarat, took his theo-
logical degree in 1912 and labored in the
Mallee part of the vineyard. In 1916 he
got his last job and travelled North West-
ralia and neighboring parts in the interests
of the abos., of whose customs he made
many valuable cinema records. He was only
42 at the finish.
The death of M. K. McKenzie at Caulfield,
Melbourne, recalls an exciting chapter in
Vic. political history 241 years ago in which
he figured prominently. In spite of his
blindness McKenzie made a good member
for Anglesey, and Irvine gave him the Lands
portfolio in his Ministry of 1902- In debate
on the Constitution Reform Bill Prendergast,
now Chief Sec. in Hogan’s Labor Govern-
ment, indignantly charged McKenzie with
granting a lease of some grazing land to
himself. A select committee reported
adversely to McKenzie, and Irvine threw
him to the wolves. He was not re-elected
to the House for nearly a decade, and then
failed to regain his old status, though he
earned respect and sympathy.
William Angus Leiteh, Maoriland chair-
man of the Associated Banks and chiei
inspector of the Union, goes to Melbourne to
take over the management there. Before
being transferred to M.L. Leiteh served the
bank in all the eastern States of the Com-
monwealth, as manager and inspector. Born
in Adelaide in 1870, he joined the Bank of
South Aus. in 1890. Another M.L. banker,
E. B. Sheridan, manager of the Wellington
branch of the Wales, goes to Adelaide as
manager.
“0.P.H.”: It was noticed that N.S.W.
Premier Lang got as far away as possible
from Bruce and Page at the Federal-State
millionaires’ conference in Melbourne. Pre-
mier Hogan, who was placed nearest to Bruce,
had not so much poise as Collier possessed
and Lang affected ; the newness and rawness
of the Vic. Premier were too apparent. Col-
lier's ease and seeming indifference were
the equipment of a keen bargainer; a big
man this in every sense of the word. Butler,
although nearly as brand-new as Hogan, con-
trived to look used to the job. So did
Forgan Smith, though a mere deputy Pre-
mier ; but McCormack was missed. What
so many officers were doing there, unless it
was to make an audience, is a mystery.
A Litligow Digger, T. A. Hart, got a
shock when the postman handed him a
parcel from Germany the other day. It con-
tained Hart’s diary, which had been taken
from him when he was wounded and made
prisoner at Hangar Wood, Villers-Breton-
neux, in April, 1918. A Hamburg German,
going through the souvenirs of his soldier
father, saw Hart’s home address in the diary
and sent the record back to its owner with
a friendly message.
“Knib” : Vic.’s Labor Ministers take them-
selves seriously. Lemon is perhaps the least
sure of himself. Hogan, though he had four
months’ office under Prendergast, is still
the obvious novice. Prendy is inclined to
be a departmental emperor, with an occa-
sional Jovian nod. Slater seems to be won-
dering how he will get time to run two
departments and attend so many Cabinet
meetings. Bailey tills the part at the
Lands, and is quick and sure, but nobody
could be quite as important as he looks.
Jones is a bit self-conscious of his personal
prosperity. Beckett would do better if he
were less formal. Tunnecliffe, clever and
very “political,” is wasted at the Railways;
he should be at the Chief See.’s, and Prendy
at the Treasury. Cain, who helps Slater
at the Agriculture, has assumed the role of
Colossus of the Cabinet, which he isn't.
Webber, general utility honorary, ought to
be in command of a department, and knows
it. Disney, easy-going but shrewd, is the
happiest of the bunch.
PHIL COLLIER, Premier and Treasurer of
W.A., who has been one of the out-
standing figures at the Premiers’ con-
ference in Melbourne.
Tom Tyson, of Hay (N.S.W.), died the
other day, at 70, from shock following the
kick of a horse. He inherited portion of
Jimmy Tyson's fortune, and didn't go through
his share, as another beneficiary did. That
young man kept a valet whose job it was to
put out his clothes so that when, he returned
from a walk round “the Block’’ in one suit
another was ready. The passage of the tailor's
model in a different suit every half-hour or so
was one of Sydney’s sights for a while.
JIM.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Jim’s all right, a good bloke Jim is, there ain’t
nothin’ wrong with Jim,
And a bloke don’t meet too many in his
travels now like ’im ;
Just a little bit stand-offish, don’t butt in
like some blokes do,
But a good bloke when ’e’s got it —just the
same as me and you.
’Member when ’e worked the Marvel? No,
of course you wasn’t ’ere.
Oh! a good show was the Marvel—at ’er top
in Clean Sweep’s year—
Never crushed below four ounces; and, of
course, old Jim was free,
Open-’anded you might call it, same as me
and you would be.
Course she cut out in the finish, same as all
them contacts do,
And of course old Jimmy reckoned that ’e
knew a thing or two.
Sunk ’er deeper, drove and crosscut, buildin’
on another dab,
Till at last ’e ’ad to leave ’er- finished up
without a crab.
Yes, a quiet bloke old Jim is, and V don’t
'ave much to say.
Seldom speaks to anybody—bar to pass the
time o’ day;
But ’e does get confidential sometimes when
’e’s ’ad a wet,
And ’e’ll tell you that ’e hasn’t finished with
the Marvel yet.
Yes, of course ’e’s pretty feeble, and ’is
sight is gettin’ dim.
And ’is brain don’t seem too active, but I
will say this for Jim—
For I always did believe in giving every man
’is due —
’E was dinkum when ’e ’ad it, just the same
as me and you.
Jim's all right, ’e gets 'is pension and a ’weight
or two as well;
That’s ’is shaker in the gully just a-past the
Golden Bell.
“ ’Old on, Jimmy, what’s yer ’urry? Come
and ’ave another wet,
You was good-o when you ’ad it, and yer
cobbers don’t forget.”
w.a.
OSCAR WALTERS.


he joyous thrill of
sheer speed'—the consciousness
of sheer luxurious-
ness of sheer comfort~~Thus, in
a few words, you have the sum
total of what every Chrysler
owner experiences and enjoys.
A USTRA LA SI A N DISTRIBUTORS:
N-S. W. Larke Heave & Carter Ltd. Grenville House, William Street Sydney.
Xf j Hi! I'** 1 '** Motors Pty. Ltd.. Chrysler House. Collins Street, Melbourne.
§‘“ ■ Ward Motors Limited, Wickham Street. Brisbane..
Sth Aust.- O. T. Rodda Motors Ltd., Flinders Street, Adelaide.
West. Aust Wilham Attwood. 299-301 Murray Street. Perth.
T, a i" Chrysler Motor Co. Pty. Ltd.,' Hobart and Launceston.
<v. Z.: Todd Motor Company, 97 Courtenay Place. Wellington.
BUILT AS ONLY CHRYSLER
No. 388
UILDS


Cbe equitable Cife
flssce.
0 a
Coy.
Australasia CM.
Head Office:
Parbury House, Eagle Street, Brisbane.
Branches:
N.S.W.: VICTORIA:
84 Pitt St., Sydney. 360 Collins St., Melb.
Transacts Probate, TAfe Endowment, Com-
bined Benefits (All Sickness) Assurance.
(Vacancies for Producers with good records.)
FREDK. LEVY, Mg. Director.
EXTRA HIGH GRADE
SMOKING
TOBACCO
Australian Agents: R. TOWNS & CO., SYDNEY.
HULL
Britain’s Third and
Cheapest Port.
The Natural Gateway
to a large Industrial Area of
12 MILLION PEOPLE.
11 DOCKS
Owned and Served by the
London 8 North-Eastern Railway
MODERN EQUIPMENT,
RAPID HANDLING,
LOW CHARGES.
EXPRESS GOODS TRAINS
to all parts of the country.
Regular Fast Steamship Services to the
Continent of 1 Europe for Re-Export Trade.
AUSTRALIAN SHIPPERS are invited to
inquire for further information at the offices
of Messrs. BURNS, PHILP & CO., LTD.,
10 Bridge Street. Sydney; and Branches.
L.N.E.R.
Largest Dork-owning Railway
in t lie World.
ABORIGINALITIES
MADE IN AUSTRALIA
BARNES LINSEED OIL
“Sid Seaman”: A Bowen (Q.) fisherman
was wandering along the jetty in the moon-
light, when his attention was attracted to a
curious splashing and grunting in the shadow
of a pile. Thinking it a porpoise, or some
other large fish, lie discharged a spear at a
glint of white belly, but the line became
entangled with the chain running along the
jetty and the weapon missed its mark. The
"fish” was an old beach-dweller who
because of too much whisky bringing on a
touch of the ding-bats had felt the urge of
the tropic sea. He was at his last gasp
when the fisherman recovered from fright
and dragged him out to dry.
* * :S *
“Up Top”: Queer are the ways of N.Q.
abos. with snakes. Riding across country,
I spotted an ugly black head projected from
a hole. “You killem snake, Charlie?” I
inquired. “More better no. boss." Charlie
said. “We gottem plenty tucker longa saddle-
bags. S’posem some day I walkabout longa
this country hungry, me catchem this feller
then!” On a scrubby bank of the l’ascoe
the niggers found a large but thin carpet-
snake. “By-em-bye he grow fat feller,”
they explained; “him feller good kai-kai
that time.” Next day they treed a wriggler
in size almost a python, his bulging coils
around the great lig-tree branch merging
their color into that of its bark. That snake
had luscious rolls of fat lining, a rather
uncommon occurrence with snakes. Squat-
ting with a spicy blubber of fat in one fist
and a hunk of roast snake in the other,
the niggers made a picture of physical
enjoyment.
=:-• * * =:=
“Rakataui” : Are the feelings of the native
boys in Papua more susceptible to the nerve
effects of unpleasant sounds than are those
of their white brothers? I was boring a
hole through a flower-pot with a sharp im-
plement. the sound produced being similar
to the shriek of a slate-pencil. Glancing at
my small liouseboy, I saw him shudder
violently, and gooseflesh appeared all along
his arms.. The sound became eventually
too much for him, and he fled with his hands
to his ears. I have also noticed my cookboy
showing signs of distress when washing slip-
pery dishes, the sounds causing him to wince
visibly during the operation.
:Jc ijt -|i ■!"
“8.. T.” : The outcome of an exciting argu-
ment was the death of a 23ft. python, which
had seemed dis-
posed to dispute
our right of way
on a track across a
jungle-covered flat
near the Upper
Wutnut River, in
what used to be
German New Gui-
nea. Wong, our
Chinese cook,
promptly robbed
the corpse of its
gall bladder. This
he dried in the sun
and stowed care-
fully away. A
couple of months
later, in a remote
spot amongst the
mountains, Wong
went down like a
shot rabbit with an
acute attack of
appendicitis. About
midnight, when I
fancied lie was at
death’s door, he
asked me to open
his box of trea-
sures. I did so,
and taking out the
shrivelled remnant
of the snake he
shore from it a
piece about the size
of a small tobacco
chew. This having
been pounded up in
about a tablespoon-
ful of water, as di-
rected, was taken
in a gulp by the
patient. Next day
he was better,
though shaky, and
now he is as spry
as ever. He attri-
butes his recovery
to the curative pro-
pert i e s of the
snake's gall, though
politely thanking
me for my night-
long but super-
fluous struggle in
keeping him swathed in hot foments.
* * * *
“Gill”: In a patch of ti-tree near Kalan-
gadoo (S.A.) a wild cat gave birth to five
kittens. Two days afterwards the mother
died. The domestic cat from a homestead
about a mile distant visited the kittens and
removed them to a cosy nest under the
verandah. To do this she carried a kitten
about 200 yards, dropped it, and returned
for another until the five were together
again. The people at the homestead were
attracted by the meows as the foster-mother
trotted back for another kitten, and watched
her on the last relay. They had not the
heart to take the new arrivals away, so
the kits were reared. But the call of the
wild came to them when sufficiently grown,
and they cleared into the bush.
TOMMY TREGILGAS’S TRIBUTE.
TOMMY: “Lor, love ’ee, maate, ez that only wan woman?”
“Wang”: The crowd around the fire had
been out-lying each other about the hard toil
they had done in their day, and about the
great grafters they had known, when Bill
chipped in. “Th’ greatest grafter I ever
knoo,” he said, “was a chap who once
worked on th’ same station as me. He abser-
lootly loved work. An’ quick, too, he was.
Didn’t matter what it was, dam-sin kin’,
scrub-cuttin’ or diggin’ out rabbit burrers,
lie could work all day an’ half th’ night:
lie never slep’, itcliin' t’ get up t’ work nex’
mornin’. Fencin’ was his long soot. I never
saw a bloke could come within coo-ee of him
at that sorter work: he’d be outer sight
over a hill two miles away before another
bloke what had started level with him had
gawn half a chain. One day th’ boss comes
along t’ where me an' Alf—that was th’
bloke's name—was diggin’ out a rabbit bur-
rer. Tlr boss was a little fat bloke; he
puffed like a grampus runnin’ erlong th’
top of tli’ trench tryin’ t’ keep up with
Alf toiler in’ the burrer. Alf, y’ see. couldn’t
bear anyone interruptin’ him at his work.
He . happened t’ drop his pipe, an' as he
stopped t' pick it up th’ boss managed t’ get
out what lie was after. ‘Alf,’ he says, ‘y’
know that place o’ mine at th’ foot of th’
ranges, 50 miles from here? Well, I want
y' t’ go over there an’ clear a few acres
o’ scrub orf an’ put up a stockyard.’ Alf
looks hard at him an’ says nothin. ‘Don’t
y’ like th’ idear. Alf?’ asks the boss. ‘Think
it’ll be too lonely f’ yer there, eh?’ ‘No, it
ain’t that, boss.’ says Alf; ‘but I was thinkin’
it’s a devil of a long way t’ go jist t’ do
half a day’s work.’ ”
* * * *
“Adamascus” ; Fruit from trees which are
allowed to grow wild isn’t always inedible
(“Up Top,” B. 26/5/’27). At Byfield (Q.)
amidst lantana scrub there are orange- and
mandarin-trees which every season bear fine
fruit. What deterioration there is in such
cases may be put down to the nourishment
drawn from the soil by the surrounding
scrub. Mango-trees do not seem to be affected
if run wild. At Yeppoon there are some
large trees which once formed part of a
Chinaman’s garden ; the fruit they yield is
as good as any I have tasted.
jJi »!• -!• 'l*
“K.D.S.” : On Manfred station (N.S.W.),
owned by Ben Chaffey of racing fame, one
would expect to see a flock of sheep, but not
a flock of seagulls. Yet yearly, as certain
swamps fill after rain, hundreds of gulls
arrive in this far-inland place and stay till
the last drop of water is gone. Last year
a thunderstorm put water in the swamp
which is most liked by them. The country
around was dry, as no rain had fallen up to
then, yet inside a week the birds arrived in
their usual numbers.
“Prop”: I have had only one sheepdog
that a man could really call by that
Though I owned him for years, I never knew
him to cut in before he reached the head
of a mob. whether I was in sight or not.
He could keep my wing of weaners straight
unaided, when the man on the other side
couldn't do it with a couple of dogs, besides
galloping his horse all the time. I have
known that dog to work with his feet bleed-
ing from sheer wear on the roads, and have
had to carry him, bnt only after the sheep
were delivered. At last he got a bait and
I lost him. Now the curious thing about
it is that for months after his death I could
hear the “swish swish” of his feet through
the grass, as lie followed me, though I never
remember noticing the sound before he died.
;J; •i*
“Eureka”: Under nearly every gum-tree
in and around Bombala (N.S.W.) there is
a white, sweet substance that as children
we gathered and ate with relish. We called
it “manna” and were told that it was ex-
creted by locusts. As it is generally sup-
posed that manna comes only from the
flowering-ash or manna-ash tree, which grows
in Italy. Turkey, Greece and Asia Minor,
I should like to know what the Mouaro
stuff really is and whence it comes.
* , * * *
“Wirrah” : On Tulloona station (N.S.W.)
recently an emu laid her eggs close to a big
tree where an eaglehawk had built its nest.
When found the male hawk had taken posses-
sion of the newcomer’s home and round the
nine eggs it contained had built a barricade
of sticks and leaves to a height of about 18
inches. He was sitting on the eggs. About a
fortnight later he was still in possession, but
only one egg remained, the shells of the
others being strewn around the edge of the
nest. What was his game? Did lie hatch
out the eggs as food for the young eagles, or
was it the assertion of some instinct?
❖ ❖ A' A'
“Gouger”: The Island bucks are, experts
in handling the turtle. On a calm day
through the clear water they spy the prey
feeding on the sea-grass flat along the shal-
low bottom. A canoe is noiselessly man-
oeuvred so that the shellback can be taken
unawares. A boy then slips overboard and
swims swiftly down. He has but a single
chance, even should the turtle not perceive
him. With one hand he grips the beast at
the back of the neck and tugs its head
surfacewards. Simultaneously he grabs the
tail of the shell and levers it downward.
The turtle struggles with powerful flippers
which pronel him straight to the surface.
The harder he fights the faster he rises, for
his head and the butt of his shell are held
at such an angle that his own power forces
him upward. Once at the surface, the nig-
ger gasps in air and rigidly holds the turtle’s
head pointing skyward while levering on
the butt of the shell with his knees. Thus
held, it cannot dive again but can be pointed
and even steered in any direction, until the
canoemen arrive to complete the job.
(Continued on page 27.)
THE TRIER.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“She didn’t turn out like I thought she
would,” and he scratched his old grey
head.
“But after all it is just as well that I gave
her a go,” he said.
"I always thought there was something
there, but the strength of her now I
know,
And a man can never be satisfied till lie’s
given the place a go.
“It seemed to me by the way she dipped, and
the look of the country then,
It Avas only a matter of driving north to
pick up the shoot again.
But there's many a knock in this mining
game—and I knovv it from A to Z
And anyway I have no complaint, for I gave
her a go,” he said.
“It was always the same since we started
out, I and my mates of old.
'Twas a thing that ever kept turning up in
the tales that we heard and told.
A man will make for the north or south,
he’ll tramp away east or Avest,
But ever and always he means to try some
place that he likes the best.
“Though it won’t be long ere avo all must
learn that wherever we peg our claim,
Be it north or south or east or Avest, the
chances are much the same.
Yet whether Ave strike it or Avhether we miss,
the gods have fashioned us thus:
That we won’t be satisfied till we’ve tried
the place that looks good to us.
THE JONAH
TJE MAN: “Jonah? What do you call him Jonah for?”
THE KID: “Why, he’s the boy that got the measles in his school
holidays—his luck’s so stiff that if it was to rain ice-cream
he’d have a muzzle on.”
“There are problems many no man can solve,
there are answers that won’t be known
\\ hen the time shall come for a man to go
on the long last road alone.
And I’m not so sure that it matters much,”
and he scratched his old grey head,
“Still a man can never feel satisfied till he
gives it a go,” he said.
W.A.
OSCAR WALTERS.


v
X
\
lUCo)^
v
FIRST IN
ClBB^C
FOREMOST
EVERSINCE
Many Motorists pay more for Tyres than they need
It will surprise many motorists to learn that simply because they will not take the trouble to compare motor tyre lists—
they pay pounds more for their tyre service than is necessary. Appended is the latest price list of Dunlop Tyres.
If you are paying more then you are paying too much. You cannot get better quality, workmanship or service than
is incorporated in Dunlop Covers and Tubes. Garages stock them _or can obtain them for you in all sizes.
DUNLOP BALLOON TYRES— STRAIGHT-SIDE.
DUNLOP CORD TYRES.
Standard Type—High Pressure.
MILLIMETRE SIZES
INCH SIZES
Note: Balloon tubes of correct size must be fitted to all Balloon covers.
DUNLOP BALLOON TYRES.
BEADED-EDGE.
SIZE
715 x 115
730 x 130
775 x 145
31 x 4.40 X
Note: Balloon tubes of correct size must be fitted to all Balloon covers.
DUNLOP WELL-BASE BALLOON TYRES.
Wired Type for Well-Base Runs.
It is important to note that when fitting tyres to Well-Base Wired Wheels
that a rubber strip be fitted to prevent friction from spoke heads.
Special Well-Base Tubes are made for use with these covers.
Size in
Millimetres.
700
710
760
765
815
875'
915
820
880
920
835
895
80
90
90
105
105
105
105
120
120
120
135
135
>8
w
>
o
Beaded-edge
Cord Covers.
Size in
Inches.
Rim
Dia. in
Inches.
28 X 31
30 x 31X
31 x 4*
33 x 4
21
23
23
91
£ E.
3 7
4 9
4 12
6 9
6 17
7 6
7 11
7 19
9 16
8 15
10 15
11 0
Beaded
Edge.
4 6
3 15
5 17
6 3
Heavy Service
Tube for
Cord Covers.
16/
18/6
19/3
26/—a
27/-
28/-
29/6
30/-
31/6
32/9
33/3
34/
Size in
inches.
17/6
18/3
24/6*
25/3
*Oversize.
3jX
4X \
4X
4
4
41
4-1 X
4-1 X
x 41
x 5
x 5 )
OVERSIZE IN CORDS.—We draw attention to
the fact that with seven exceptions, all Cord
Covers listed are oversize. They cost more to
produce, but the extra service and comfort war-
rants it.
TUBES FOR CORD COVERS. —Dunlop tubes for
Cord Covers—which are so branded —should only
be used in these covers—standard sized tubes are
too email.
INTERCHANGEABLE TYRES.
X. The undermentioned Balloon Covers will fit the following Standard Rims:—
31 x 4.40 S.S. fits 30 x 31 Standard Rim. 33 x 5.77 S.S. fits 32 x 41 Standard Rim.
32 x 4.95 S.S. fits 31 x 4 Standard Rim. 34 x 5.77 S.S. fits 33 x4l Standard Rim.
33 x 4.95 S.S. fits 32 x 4 Standard Rim. 31 x 4.40 B.E. fits 30 x3l B.E. Rim.
Dunlop “Utility” Tyre for Light Cars.
“T TfiHT CAR” OWNERS.—Our “Utility” cover affords an exceptional opportunity of obtaining remarK-
able tyre value. Thousands of owners always use these low priced, long service tyres, and we recommend
their use with every confidence.
DUNLOP TRUCK TYRES—STRAIGHT-SIDE.
Special Construction for Commercial Vehicles.
SIZE
32 x 41
5
5
30 x
30
33
34
32
36
34
34
38
38
36
40
(Heavy Service)
(Heavy Service)
(Heavy Service)
TUBE
33/3
35/9
35/9
39/-
40/9
48/6
52/3
64/6
64/6
70/3
70/3
82/-
90/-
NOTE.
TUBES.— When ordering 29 x 4.40 Tubes, please specify if for Flat-Base or Well-
Base Rims (English or American).
VALVES.— As there are five Types of Valves used in Dunlop Tubes, long and
short stem bent valves for disc wheels, and for English well-base whee s,
“Goose Neck” (double bent)—it is essential when ordering tubes to state type of
valve required, otherwise tubes will be supplied with standard valves as used wi h
Artillery wheels.
Safeguard yourself by cutting out this List
_ which applies to all Australian States. Refer to it when next purchasing tyre.- and if it’s economy and
dependability you want—then buy “DUNLOP.” Payment in cash entitles purchasers to 5% discount off these prices.
DUNLOP RUBBER CO. OF AUST. LTD. and N - z -
All States
I
fj
i
m
mmm
X
X
o
be
DUNLOP
and
you
i


Ferro dor’s
Challenge
to *
4
If
m
(( ,
L>?
r.
'S f r=\
■
\
r
w
W
S 3?
P*-
If you have a structure
to preserve which necessi-
tates the use of paint, it
is surely worth while to
give careful consideration
to the quality of the paint
that is to be used.
Ferrodor Elastic Paint is composed of a rustless peroxide of iron that spreads
evenly over the surface a film which will protect wood, steel and iron from the
destructive gases in the atmosphere.
Ferrodor is thoroughly elastic and never forms a flinty unyielding coat, It does
not crack with expansion or contraction. It will not “chalk off through
exposure to rain and sun and does not blister or scale. Ferrodor Paint covers
more surface weight for weight than either White or Red Leads, and has a
much longer and more useful life than either.
You are recommended to give Ferrodor Elastic Paint a trial—for economy s
sake. Send to us for further particulars and colour chart.
WILLIAM ADAMS £ COMPANY
_____ LI M I TED__y
SYDNEY: 175 Clarence Street
BRISBANE: Edward and Mary Street*
PERTH: 33-35 King Street
MELBOURNE: 521-523 Collins Street
ADELAIDE: 157 Way mouth Street
NEWCASTLE: 17 Bolton Street
“Ferrodor”
is stocked by the following Merchants in N.S.W.
Williamson, Croft & Co Sydney
Grace Bros Sydney
H. T. Seymour, Ltd Marrickville
Quartlys, Ltd Newtown
Holdsworth, MacPherson, Ltd Sydney
Anthony Hordern & Sons, Ltd Sydney
James Sandy & Co., Ltd Sydney
W. Peatfield & Son Kogarah
Moore Bros North Sydney
Fred. Ash, Ltd Newcastle
A. E. Budd & Sons Murwillumbah
G. E. Crane & Sons Sydney
Lithgow Co-op. Co., Ltd Lithgow
J. T. Gould Cronulla
Fred Young Rockdale
Campbells, Ltd '. . . Manly
Strauss & Son Grafton
Sorbys. Ltd Newcastle
Geo. Reading Bangalow
WooUona Co-op. Co Woonona
Robertson’s Beach Stoi ; Newport
W. J. Irwin Parramatta
A. G. Robertson, Ltd ~. Lismore
Alf. Stephens . Bowral
Geo. Dawson & Sons Newcastle
W. Hosie & Sons Singleton
mill
IFOR PRESERVING
ON ft STEEL STRU<
m
aw
£-L
1,1, uffT'
PFT'
i
-k
v


The Federal Mutual
-(pSCfcJ, a
Insurance Company of Australia, Limited.
FIRE, MARINE AND ACCIDENT.
Licensed to accept liability under Workmen’s Compensation Act 1926.
AGENTS WANTED.
Head Office: 129 Pitt Street, Sydney.
It. RAWNSLEY MOSS, Managing Director.
Victorian Branch: 360-66 Collins Street, Melbourne.
H. L. CARROLL, Manager.
Queensland Branch: Federal Mutual Chambers, Queen Street, Brisbane.
NORMAN M. MAIR, Manager.
South Australian Branch: 36 Grenfell Street, Adelaide.
E. M. MINOGUE, Manager.
SUPPORT THIS PURELY AUSTRALIAN COMPANY.
R. A. MANZIE, General Manager.
POLISHES—PRESERVES—PREVENTS CRACKS
BOSTOCK’S Shoe Creams are made in all
principal shades, and especially noted for the
New Shade of Bois-de-Rose, Putty, Sunburn
and Oak.
Price 6 d. per tribe* Obtainable Everywhere .
a m
“Jimmy Possum” : The farmer’s dog that
went bush to give birth to her puppies, after
having had a previous litter destroyed (B.
19/5/’27), recalls a similar performance by a
cat. Puss had her first batch of kittens, born
indoors, destroyed, so'when the next lying-in
period came round she prepared a bed for
herself in the hollow of a log some distance
from the house. Those babies also were killed,
and this made puss sit up. A few days be-
fore being due for the third confinement she
suddenly disappeared. After a fortnight we
gave her up for. dead. But one morning,
about two months later, she trotted into the
kitchen purring vigorously and looking as
happy as she was lean. She was given a
drink of milk, and after a short rest dis-
appeared again. In less than two hours she
was back, bringing with her four of the bon-
niest and wildest kittens you ever set eyes
on. Their mother’s confident appeal stayed
the hand of the executioner.
* # ❖ ♦
“Homo”: I wonder if “WO3” (B. 5/5/’27)
ever “witnessed the birth” of a pygmy ’pos-
sum? I forget the number of teats the little
marsupial possesses, but the number of tiny
offspring produced far exceeds one ’possum
one teat, so that sev-
eral must necessarily
die. The early arrivals
climb up the mother’s
fur and speedily attach
themselves to all the
available teats; the
w r eak and slow drop
off and die almost at
once. The native-bear,
on the other hand, has
usually only one off-
spring, and not easily
reared at that.
4fr *
“Kriz” : Pearl-oyster
shells have been used
for interior as well as
for exterior decoration
(B. 26/5/’27). The
altar of the Beagle
Bay mission church,
North Westralia, is
made of pearlshell col-
lected by the natives
while “dry” shelling.
The altar is one of the
loveliest works of art
in Australia. The shell
is set artistically in
cement, the design
being interspersed with
other sea-shells such
as cowrie and oper-
cula. Figures of angels
have been formed by
cementing pieces of the
shell together until the
whole forms one com-
position. Around the
walls are what appear
to be painted baskets
of flowers; closer in-
spection proves them
to be formed of pearl
and cowrie-shell with
petals of the beautiful
blue opercula. The
ceiling over the altar
is painted sky-blue,
and white shell stars
set in this background
glitter night and day.
The work was done by
one of the mission
fathers, and must have
taken years to com-
plete. It is a wonder-
ful sight, but only the natives, half-castes
and a few visiting whites have an oppor-
tunity of viewing it.
;{: M ❖
“8.J.” : The scarcity of wild ducks and the
like on the waters of rivets and lakes, the
latter including the coastal lagoons, in
Papua strikes me as calling for explanation.
During wanderings totalling 24 months in
New Guinea the number of quackers seen by
me was fewer than could be found almost
any day on one of the lagoons within 100
miles of Sydney. Can there be anything in
the theory advanced by a medico whom I
met that the anopheles mosquito is respon-
sible for a high death-rate in aquatic families
by infecting them with malaria? One old
hand believed that the fast-running waters
were unfitted for the growth of suitable
foods, but that does not account for broad
reaches and quiet lakes and lagoons being
also practically deserted.
* * * *
“Bill R.”: According to “Eureka” (B.
2/6,/’27), there are enough bunnies on the
Monaro tableland (N.S.W.) to keep a dozen
freezing-factories going, but their shutters
are up because the rabbiters find it more
lucrative to trap for the skins. That is
not so. Buyers for the factories always
paid the market-price of the pelts plus up to
51d. for the carcases. “Eureka’s” notion
that I have been blind when passing across
the upland plateau is also wrong. Only
last shearing I traversed Billilingra, Bobun-
darali, Bibbenluke, Burnima, Gunningrah
and Cambalong stations without seeing a
score of rabbits. On the same itinerary
seven years back I saw millions. In the
meantime the runs have been wire-netted and
the cottontails rooted out.
“C.C.”: The yarn that the barracouta has
only recently migrated as far north as N. S.
Wales waters from its southern home in
Bass Strait (“Pick,” B. 12/5/’27) is in-
correct. I know the fish to have been plenti-
ful in the Burnett River (Q.) 20 years ago.
Often when fish migrate from one coast to
another fishermen give the arrival a new
name. For instance, the gummy shark or
dogfish, which is very plentiful in N.S.W.
and Queensland waters and is tabooed there
as inedible, is called lemon-fish in Maori-
land. In that country it is cut into strips
and when skinned commands a ready sale
in the fishshop's on account of it having no
bones. Barracouta and lemon-fish, when
stripped and smoked, are called silverstrip
and make a very acceptable dish.
* * # *
“Prop”: At Zeehan (Tas.) in ’OB a
drover named Ted Barwick had a slut whose
litter, with the exception of one pup, he
drowned. This survivor the slut planted in
the bush, and did not bring it home until it
was big enough to travel the road. The
mother soon had the youngster broken in
to obey Ted’s whistle. Yet though it trav-
elled the road with Barwick for years it
was never near enough for him to put his
hand on it.
* * * *
“Biro”: Like “Black Tracker” (B.
19/5/’27), I have seen birds supporting their
young in flight—starlings more often than
others. The parent birds take up positions
on stumps, after the style of children play-
ing “puss-in-the-corner,” and encourage the
young ones to fly from one stump to the
next. Should a youngster fly low and
weakly an older bird will fly beneath it, not
always actually touching the trier, but urg-
ing it upward. The teaching of flying to
their young is a community affair among
starlings. Magpies are also clever teachers
and give early lessons in singing as well
as flying. I have seen an old mag. sitting
beside a young one, listening to its attempts
at singing and then giving an exhibition of
how it should be done.
WRITING A HISTORY OF THE WAR.
OLD BLUEY.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Staunch horses have I known in days of
battle,
Upstanding colts and walers good to see;
Stock-horses have I ridden after cattle,
Scrub-dashing through the dust by log
and tree.
I’ve ridden hunters over wold and lea;
And though I’ve driven pairs and rattling-
pacers,
Shatters abreast and teams linked three
and three,
AN AMBIGUOUS INVITATION.
“Ave you got a minute to spare, Constable? Me old man’s lookin’ for someone to murder."
I cherish most—of draughts and cobs and
racers—
A starved old horse that saved a mate
and me.
We bought old Bluey from a wood-cart
driver;
His age was many seasons past its prime;
His near-side eye was gone; lie cost a fiver,
For scarce and dear was horseflesh at the
time.
His broken knees seemed past all power
to climb
Stiff pinches on the course we’d planned to
travel;
But August reigned supreme, and faith
sublime
Shed hope on distant hills of quartz and
gravel
And smote our tuneful hearts with morn-
ing rhyme.
We left Ivalgoorlie with our screens and
shaker,
Our gads and picks and shovels in the
dray
We purchased from a thriving undertaker
Who’d used it once to cart the dead away
Before his hearse and mourning-coach held
sway.
Two lengths of mining-rope we used for
traces;
Our harness wasn’t worth a night-shift’s
pay—
But we were bound for rich, untrodden spaces
To reap the wealth of reef and wash and
clay!
Old Bluey’s mangy coat was lacking lustre,;
His ribs protruded from a shrinking hide
On which the sandflies hung in many a
cluster
As we set out agog with hopeful pride.
He plodded slow; we tramped along be-
side,
Our swags and plant a bulky cargo seeming;
But rock nor sand-ridge broke nor stayed
the stride, .
Or marred the measure of old Bluey’s dream-
ing
What time we crossed the spaces lone and
wide.
The spring fled back from summer’s reign
relentless
O'er ridge and rampart of our goal unwon.
We journeyed on through scrubland dark and
scentless
All f ped consumtif ] a u grasg anc | herbage
done.
But Bluey heeded not the garish sun;
The dry, sad wastes of mulga ever lifting
Through breathless noons that watched the
heat-waves run
While flaming scuds of fine, red sand were
drifting,
Ami haze across the spinifex was spun.
One woeful noon on sand-drifts tossed and
hollowed
By blasting gales, we halted weak and
spent.
\Ye dropped the shafts and let him go, then
followed
Regardless of the course old Bluey went.
He held straight onward till the sun’s
descent,
Whinnying oft with sure sagacious knowing,
Till eastward through the dusk we spied
a tent
Beyond a clump of gimlet saplings showing,
While o’er the camp-fire’s glow a stranger
bent.
We drank from spacious rock-holes all to-
gether—
Three comrades, from oblivion saved by
one
Who’d faced starvation, thirst and blazing
i, weather
And saved us from the throes of thirst and
sun
To drink beside the reef of fortune won
By him that welcomed us to share his bond-
age
And raise the reef for crushing, ton by ton.
Then Bluey, ’neath a gimlet sapling’s frond-
Laid down his bones for aye, his journey
done. ;
N.S.W.
GERARDY.


h
His
Sale
at top values is
our work at the
yards. We are Fat
Stock Salesmen.
Through the facilities provided, the attention given
to business, and the energy and skill extended in
selling consignments, full market prices are invari-
ably obtained by Winchcombe-Carson senders.
Consign Cattle, Sheep, Lambs to
WiNCHCOMBE,CARSON
LTD,
Homebush Yards, or Enoggera Yards,
Sydney. Brisbane.
QN
BANK
THE QUEENSLAND NATIONAL BANK, LIMITED.
Incorporated under the Companies Act 1863. Established 1872.
Directors —A. C. Luva, Esq., Chairman; James Love, Esq. ; W. H. Hart, Esq.;
M. J. Rvan, Esq.; D. W. Macdonald, Esq.
General Manager—M. G. HAYMEN.
HEAD OFFICE BRISBANE
With offices at London, Canberra (Federal Territory), Melbourne, Sydney, and
95 branches in Queensland and Northern Rivers, N. S. Wales, also representation
through the leading Banking Institutions covering Australasia and the World,, this
Bank offers the fullest facilities for the transaction of all general banking business.
Ericsson Telephone Mfg. Co.
(Formerly James Paton & Co.)
Sole Importers of the Famous Ericsson Telephone and Switchboard
Apparatus, for Magneto, Common Battery and Automatic Working,
WIRELESS APPARATUS,
19 YORK STREET, SYDNEY; 509 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE.
CYMA
KNOWN ALLOVERTHE WORLD
AS THE BEST TIME KEEPER
SOLD BY ALL JEWELLERS
THE MAN
ON THE LAND'S
PAGE
WORKING STUD STOCK.
The Commonwealth Clydesdale Horse
Society had something interesting to say
about draught sires and mares in general in
its monthly House News. Referring to
the fact that many Australian draught
breeders find it hard to get good ribbing and
ciuarters in their young stock, however highly
bred, it is suggested that this is due to
neglecting to give the sire and dam a fail-
amount of collar-work. Most of them get
no exercise, save from trotting or walking.
The development and maintenance of, the
pulling capacity which is the essential fea-
ture of the type is not attended to, with the
result that the degeneration is transmitted
to the next generation, and so on. in increas-
ing ratio. Canada and the U.S.A. make a
rule of working their draught sires regularly,
and farmers there have found the practice to
be good for tl.i horses themselves and their
stock. It is obvious that a stall-kept sire,
only exercised lightly, must be a lot softer
than a regularly worked horse, and less cal-
culated to get first-class working progeny.
Mares come into the same categories. Pedi-
greed mares are all the better for steady
work, and there would be far fewer entries
of “missed” in the progeny returns if regu-
lar work was the general x-ule.
IS THE PIG TO BLAME?
“Dinnis” : Australian pig-raisers are down-
east at the failure of their specialty to
justify their pains with him. Though univer-
sally acclaimed as a profit-maker, he has
not come up to expectations in the matter
of dividends, and a Federal conference is to
be called to enquire into the creature’s short-
comings.
The general complaint seems to be that
the pig is a “one-purpose” animal only.
His flesh, it is said, is all he has to offer,
while cattle and sheep give wool and hides
in addition, and even the humble hen, when
eggs and spring-chicken are a story told,
still pans out feathers.
Who or which is to blame—the Australian
pig or his human associates? In all the
other countries where pigs are successfully
merchandised, every portion of him is utilised
commercially, from bristles to glue, and all
that comes between. A country that sees
only pork in a pig has a whole lot to learn.
There is much in the dictum of one of
Thomas Hardy’s characters who said:
“There's a deal o’ miscellaneous eating in a
pig.” If Australian growers once realised
that, we might hear less about the “one-
purpose" pig.
“BONE” DISEASE.
“V.A.G.”: Now that winter is here one
may, expect to hear of outbreaks of “bone”
disease, especially in dairying districts, and
the man on the land will be scratching his
head to find the best method of combating
it.
Cattle on wet food, either hand-fed bran
or young green fodder, are more affected than
cows having solid and dry food. One year
many herds at Yenda (N.S.W.) were
affected, while one right in among the others
remained immune. The herd that was not
attacked had access to a stack of straw
which it seemed to prefer to succulent oats,
wheat and lucerne, on which the other herds
were fed exclusively.
The benefit of the dry feed was later shown
by a dairyman on the coast who had tried
many remedies, such as drying-off his cattle,
giving them bone-dust and lime, before he
fed his lot on hay—lucerne-hay in the morn-
ing and oaten at night. Within a week the
cattle showed signs of improvement; within
a month there was not one lame cow, while
many of his neighbors’ were just able to
move about.
SOUTH AFRICAN WOOL.
“Trepex”: Referring to South African
wools “ITT” does wrong to charge me with
despising an enemy (B. 2/6/’27). I did
not call the South African wool-growers
enemies; I called them rivals, and admitted
them to be serious rivals. But I would not
have our own wool-growers misled by unfair
comparisons. The warning issued by Kreg-
linger and Fernau is worthy of note. They
are a big firm with offices in Australia,
South Africa, South America, North
America and Bradford as well as the Con-
tinent. But they put the case from a
buyer’s point of view, and they are not the
first to put it either. In fact, I have got
tired of hearing it this season and I think
the growers have got tired also. The case on the
other side is that our sheepmen grow the broad
wools because they iind that they receive the
highest aggregate price per sheep by doing
so. lii other words, the strong wools pay
them best.
There is not much to add beyond a few
straight facts: (1) Some little preference
lias been shown this last season for the
quality of the South African wools. (2)
Their clip was finer last season because, of
its poor growing conditions. (3) Our last
season's clip was coarser than usual because
of its generous growing conditions. (4)
The whole of this biggest and coarsest wool-
clip we have ever grown was sold in
good time in spite of a carry-over from the
year before. (5) The market was higher
at the end than it was at the beginning.
(6) The average price was a little over
17d. per pound, l|d. higher than the price
at which the British Government took our
clips during some of the war years. (7)
Our robust-woolled sheep yield more of the
staple than the finer ones do. (8) The
medium and broad wool-clips have been
averaging nearly, if not quite, as much as
the finer ones.
If these facts argue that our wool is not
wanted and that we should make a rush
back to the very fine wools, then one should
not recommend the man on the land to grow
wool at all; he should go in for rabbits,
because bunny-skins are making up to five
and six bob per pound, whereas the best
wool made only 40-odd pence last season.
Some extracts from the closing quotations
of three London wool-brokers of the Marcli-
April series of sales there may be interest-
ing also. Prices- given for the South African
wools were: Extra-super, none offering;'
super, 23d. to 244 d.; average, 18d. to 22d.:
inferior, 14d. to 17d. N.S.W.: Extra-super,
374 d. to 404 d.; super, 30d. to 36d.; average.
21d. to 29d".; inferior, 17d. to 20d. These
wools had met on equal grounds, and the,
figures look conclusive.
I don’t despise the S. African wool-grower.
The man who was shrewd enough to come
over here and buy much of our best stud-
sheep stock and observe our methods is
deserving of high commendation. But I will
not willingly see our sheepmen stampeded
by a bogey into fine wools which do not pay
them so well as the others.
WOOL-CLASSING.
“R. E. Combing”: A good deal of the
complaint against the quality of Australian
merino wool lies in the fact that much of
it is not broad throughout but has a pro-
portion of strong or “doggy” stuff running
through an otherwise fair-quality wool. This,
in its turn, is caused by unevenness of fibre
in the one fleece, the breech end being per-
ceptibly coarser than the shoulder. This
is a contingency almost inseparable from
the development of the sheep of robust frame
and wool. It is quite- usual to see main
lines in our big clips, otherwise uniform,
showing a distinct variation of quality. Nor
is the wool-classer to be blamed ; it is diffi-
cult for him to deal with a variation in the
one fleece.
One method that has been successfully
adopted by some big wool-growers is to have
the fleeces rolled into a sausage shape in-
stead of a ball, with the breechy parts at
one end and the shoulder at the other. The
wool-classer may then see if there is a
divergence in quality and tear the fleece in
two if advisable, putting the different parts
iu different sorts. One big clip . I know
has improved its get-up immensely by this
practice.
CONDITIONS MAKE THE WOOL.
“W.P.D.”: The quality or fineness of
merino wool is largely determined by climate
and feed conditions. Lately I had some
samples of wool from hoggets bred at a
station near the Burra, 100 miles north of
Adelaide. The quality is a 60’s. These
sheep were sent to another station, owned
by the same co., up in the north-eastern
corner of South Aus., not far from Broken
Hill, with an average annual rainfall of six
or seven inches, and saltbush country.
Samples of wool from these, shorn at their
new habitation, also came to me. The quality
had fined to 64’s or 66’s. A better specimen
of merino wool it would be hard to find.
It is of great length, decided crimp, splen-
did character and beautiful handle. The
sheep, which are of the usual bold, robust
South Australian type, cut about 121 b. when
on the station where they were bred. Moving
them to the drier climate with different feed
has made little difference to the average
weight of fleece, but much to the quality of
the wool.
Queensland clips sold during the last six
months have been considerably finer than
they are in ordinary years —the result of
drought conditions entirely.
SHEEP, GOATS AND DINGOES.
“Leo Lear" : I do not know if there is
anything in “Saaedi’s” suggestion (B.
19,/5/’27) that angoras will protect sheep
from the raids of dingoes, but can vouch for
this. My neighbor in S.-W. Victoria was
losing lambs every night through foxes. A
late arrival from England happened along,
and said that a small piece of red rag tied
round a lamb’s neck would prevent further
loss. The experiment was tried with unfail-
ing success. Only two more animals were
killed during lambing, both having been
missed when the socialistic colors were dis-
tributed.
“Jimmy P.” : I’m afraid there is nothing
in the yarn about dingoes not molesting
sheep with a sprinkling of Angora goats
among them (B. l!)/5/’27). Warrigal is
just as partial to goat flesh as to mutton.
In Bananaland the howlers are troublesome.
Nanny and her herd have to be penned up
nightly, and I’ve known them attacked in
a settler’s back yard. In one case a neigh-
bor had a flock of angoras slaughtered by
dingoes during his absence of a few weeks,
notwithstanding that he left them in an
enclosure close to the house.
“B.L.D.”: I can assure “Saaedi” that
there is nothing in the yarn of goats pro-
tecting sheep from dingoes. On Tregoning,
Morven (Q.), there were goats running with
the sheep. They generally ran in a mob by
themselves, and their numbers, as well as
the sheep, were kept down by the dogs, which
have been known to attack three-months-ohl
calves about there.
MOHAIR.
“R. E. Combing” : There is quite a move-
ment in mohair, and an increasing quantity
of the goaty covering is finding its way
into consumption. America is easily the
most important customer. In addition to
the produce of its own angora industry, it
takes tin; largest share of the out-
side world’s production over the _ hurdle
of a high import tariff. The impetus
comes from the very large quantity of
the fibre used in the lining and upholstery
of motor-cars. Over mohair America seems
to have the rest of the world by the scruff
of the neck, and gets the stuff into its bonds
at a fairly cheap rate.
There must be possibilities of develop-
ment. A recent meeting of angora-breeders
in South Africa decided to form an associa-
tion with a view to advertising the many
uses to which mohair can be put, and push-
ing its sale. . The expenses are to be met
by a self-levied tax of £d. per lb. of what
they receive for their produce. These South
Africans object to selling their raw product
at a cheap rate and buying it back expen-
sively in the manufactured state.
The angora was not much of a success
here, but one begins to wonder if some of our
big interior regions, where the spinifex ridges
are, would not give sustenance to the brute.
It would not deprive anything else of a
living, and if the South Africans are pre-
pared to blaze the trail of profitable selling
there is no reason why we should not reap
some of the benefit. They made plenty of
use of our sheep lore, come to by hard striv-
ing on our part.
WOOL CLASSES IN QUEENSLAND.
“Bourne”: “Hadley" (B. 2/6/'27) has it
wrong when he says that the small propor-
tion of pastoralists’ sons taking the wool
course at the Brisbane Technical College is
an indication that the risk of free week-ends
in the city is considered by fathers to be
too great. The real trouble is that the
course is far too long. Few parents can see
the sense of a boy spending three years
learning what he can pick up at home. Let
me correct, myself; he can’t Rick it all up at
home : but the part he misses is not worth
the time, as there are no short, or half,
courses. The school is a rattling good one
and the subject thoroughly dealt with. It’s
ideal for city youths going on the land.
Unfortunately, though, the diplomas and certi-
ficates issued cut very little ice with practical
men. After about six or seven years on sheep
places (which included the scratch-classing
of small clips) I once tried for a classing
job, on the advice of the expert of one of the
big Brisbane wool-broking houses. He
laughed at my objection that I had no papers.
“We’ll give you a small shed,” he said, “and
if you handle it all right you’re set. We
don’t count papers. If you had all the
degrees there are you’d get the same test.”
So much for that.
LAMB MARKING AND SHEEP
COUNTING.
■ “N.M.L.” : Pardon me being a bit late in
this lamb-marking discussion ; but my mails
have been running any old how lately. Three
hundred an hour good marking! P'ff! Like-
wise pshaw! I didn't reckon I was working
at under 800 an hour—that was with six
catchers. With eiarht catchers, and running
along to finish one evening, I topped 8000
in under three hours. Mortality V Three
hundred in 27,000 and 400-odd in 48,000 are
two cases I remember. To W. J. Young, then
manager of Lansdowne, and general man-
ager for many years past of the Australian
Pastoral Co., must, however, be given the
record. He marked 8040 in one day.
But how about counts'/ The then head
overseer of Warbroccan counted mobs of
82,000, 26,000, 24.000 and twenties more
times than he could remember. On another
occasion, after mustering for about a week
into ono paddock, that paddock was mustered
and 47,500 counted out of it without a
break. On still another occasion, the same
man then being head overseer of Barcaldine
Downs, a discussion was held about count-
ing. He said 8000 in half an hour was fair
counting. Being challenged to do it. he went
away and counted 15,800 in a tick under
40 minutes. Those sheep were counted into a
small paddock and mustered from there to
the shed. The difference between the over-
seer’s count and the count over the board was
three.
“SHY” FRUIT-TREES.
“H.S.T.”: The operation described by
“A. 8.” (B. 2/6/’27) of running a sharp
knife perpendicularly down the trunk of a
fruit-tree is often effective when trees are
bark-bound. In this condition the vital
energy of the tree seems stifled, and owing
to the constriction of the bark the trunk
cannot expand. If the tree is otherwise
healthy, the edges of the slit will soon be
forced apart, and the tree takes on new
life. The same effect is sometimes obtained
by softening the bark by means of soap or
lye washes.
To induce fruitfulness, an annular incision,
by which the stem is completely girdled as
in the case of the currant cincture, is often
very effective, especially with the orange.
With some other trees the practice is risky,
but it is perfectly safe with the orange,
provided reasonable care is exercised. All
that is wanted is a single, clean cut made
with the point of a knife drawn through
the bark around the stem. The ends of
the cut must meet —in other words, the
circle must be complete—and the cut must
be made after the trees have flowered and
before the young “set” fruit has fallen.
The practice is of special value for navel
oranges, which habitually shed the greater
proportion of their young fruit. I have
known Australian navel-trees (ordinarily
extremely sliy bearers) made quite prolific
by this means, and the Washington navel
crop is easily doubled by the same process.
Renmark’s most successful orange-grower
habitually follows this practice, and it has
been tried, with varying degrees of success,
by a number of orange-growers at Waikerie.
Some have abandoned it on the ground that
“it takes too much out of the tree” ; but so
far as my own observation goes, the cut
in itself is innocuous (though I have known
trees to be nearly killed by men who were
not content with a simple, clean cut but
took to levering the edges of the bark away
from the stem), and commonly seems to do
the tree good, acting like a slit on a bark-
bound tree.
But if trees are induced to bear heavy
crops by this or other means, unless the land
is unusually rich the owner must be pre-
pared to feed it well and. above all, keep
up the humus content of the soil.
HOW TO CULE THE POULTRY-YARD.
“Hatter”: The farmer who runs poultry
as a side-line should reasonably expect his
flock to average 150-200 eggs a year. On
these figures they pay handsomely; but it
cannot be done without careful culling.
There are three ways of picking the laying
hen. The first is generally known —the red
and plump-looking comb. The second is
known to many, but is a troublesome pro-
cess, as it involves catching the fowl and
feeling its abdomen. If it is loose and
pliable she is doing her bit; in the non-
layer it is small, shrunken and hard. The
third way is the least generally known.
It has only recently been discovered that
the absence of yellow pigment in the bird s
appearance indicates that she is laying
heavily. As soon as she ceases to lay this
color begins to return in a regular order,
first to the earlobes, then to the beak,
then to the shanks and skin.
Also, the age of a fowl can now at last
be quite accurately determined by observ-
ing the length of the primary flight feathers
of the wing. The pullet possessing a full-
grown wing shows the tips of the feathers
forming a graceful, symmetrical and even
curve. With each successive moult there
comes a definite shortening of certain of
the primary flight-feathers, and a very little
experience enables the three-year-olds to be
confidently passed out.
Poultry-farming has, as everyone knows,
attained its greatest development in America,
(Continued on page 31.)


New Peaks
of speed, power and safety
r.i
/f i v
i
V 7
J
y
yes, Everyone says
Nothing like it
- in the World~
Super-Six principle long held in check
now released to full capacity--
PRACTICALLY
70 %
Australian
Built
Under this combination of
resources, American and
Australian industry has
achieved manufacturing
economies that no other
builder for the Australian
market shares.
ESSEX.
5-pass. Speedster (Aus. Body) £255
„ Touring „ „ 255
yy Coach yy yy 32tJ
Coupe 335
4-door Sedan . . . . . . 345
HUDSON SUPER-SIX.
7-pass Touring (Aus. Body)
Brougham
7-pass. Sedan
Also
Hudson 5-pass. Coach.
Hudson Roadster.
Prices at some points slightly higher.
£450
550
635
In appearance and value, as well
as performance, Hudson is the most
talked of car of the year. Everyone
is saying there is “nothing like it
in the world.”
The Super-Six has the smoothness
of an electric motor. Four years’
development led to full release of
its capacity in power, stamina and
safety. It led to a new chassis cap-
able of safely using the wide range
and long life of the motor. New
driving delights resulted. From
the effortless smoothness with
which the Super-Six whisks you
into motion, to the carefree way in
which you may make any trip
from a journey down-town to a
run across the continent, there
remains throughout the zest of
driving that is possible only to its
elastic and smooth flow of power.
Your Hudson Super-Six never
extends itself. It always has
reserve power for the approaching
hill or for greater speed. And its
four-wheel brakes with the flexi-
bility of the motor permit a flash-
ing nimbleness you will like.
The development of Hudson led
also to the creation of the Essex
Super - Six, . a counterpart in
general appearance, smoothness,
comfort, quality, easy riding and
safety. Both are engineered to
low operation and maintenance
cost. The bodies are of such
variety and beauty as will satisfy
all demands for luxury and exclu-
siveness as well as comfort and
price advantage.
HUDSON-ESSEX
THE HUDSON MOTOR CAR COMPANY, Detroit, Michigan, U.S.A.
DALGETY & CO., LTD.,
Phillip Street, Sydney.
MOTORS, LIMITED,
Flinders Street, Adelaide.
NEAL’S MOTORS PTY., LTD.,
Exhibition Street, Melbourne,
AUTOS, LTD.,
Hay Street, Perth-
WHATMORE, McINTOSH MOTORS, LTD.,
Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
H. €. HEATHORN & CO., LTD.,
Hobart and Launceston.
DEALERS EVERYWHERE—BUY FROM YOUR LOCAL DEALER.


SHIPS
MARINE
ENGINES
LOCOMOTIVES
MACHINE
TOOLS
FORCINGS
CASTINGS
NON
FERROUS
PRODUCTS
DROP
STAMPINCS
HIGH SPEED
STEELS
SMALL TOOLS
GAUGES
PNEUMATIC
TOOLS
ELECTRIC
LICHTING-
SETS
COAL
HANDLING
PLANT
HYDRAULIC
MACHINERY
DOCK
EQUIPMENT
PUMPING
MACHINERY
WATER TURBINES
AND
PELTON WHEELS
GENERAL
ENGINEERING
MC/30
An Engineering Achievement
TN January this year occurred an interesting
coincidence which very aptly illustrates the
fact that Armstrong Whitworth can justly claim
to be Engineers to the World.
A number of powerful locomotives were con-
structed at our Elswick works. These had to be
shipped to Nigeria, and were carried by the Motor
Ship “ Beldis,” which was built and engined in
the Armstrong shipyards. On arrival at Lagos
the port of debarkation the locomotives
were unloaded at the Apapa Wharf, which
was constructed and equipped throughout by
Armstrong Whitworth.
There are few, if any, other engineering firms who
can point to such striking evidence of the world-
wide use and varied nature of their products.
When you place an order with Armstrong
Whitworth you will be dealing with a firm of
vast resources ; a firm, too, that upholds the
British standard of quality throughout the world.
ENGINEERS TO
THE EMPIRE
You are invited to send
for Catalogues of any
A. VP. Products in which
you may be interested.
Sir • w- G -ARMSTRONG'WHITWORTH & C a L TO
NEWCASTLE ' ON ' TYNE ' AND ' MANCHESTER ' ENGLAND
London Office: KINNAIRD HOUSE ' PALL MALL EAST_ LONDON ' U
Code : BENTLEY’S Telegrams : ZIGZAG, PIGGY, LUiNWDt.
Agents for Australia: Messrs. GILBERT LODGE 6? CO. Ltd., MELBOURNE and SYDNEY


r v
ci
mm mm
m
SHEARING SHEDS
STABLES
FLOORS FOR WOOLSHE&S
FENCING DROPPERS
PLANS AND PRICES FREE
(fIDBE TIMBER™
FLINDERS ST ADELAIDE, S.A.
W&W26.
'AWiw&mim
London Office:
“Gresham House/'
Old Broad Street., EC.2.
ELECTROLYTIC ZINC
BRAND BRAND
Containing about 99.96% Metallic Zine
(99.9% guaranteed).
ZINC CONCENTRATES
Various Grades.
Zinc Producers’ Association ltd".,
Contractors ivitli the Board of Trade.
COLLINS HOUSE, 360 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE.
“ De Reszke
—of course
Ivory Tipped
or Plain
J\ '* it \
\/ ,
- N \V
%
/S
Safe
r/x
V
Mi
The
Choice for the Voice
“Late nights don’t seem to affect pretty
voice.”
“ To tell you the truth, I*m surprised at
myself, considering the number of cigarettes
I smoke.”
“The explanation, my dear, is that you’re
only smoking De Reszkes. In fact, you’re
doing exactly what the great Jean de Reszke
did. When he found that ordinary cigarettes
affected his golden voice, he got his friend
Millhoff to make him a cigarette that he
could smoke all day with impunity. And
that’s the origin of the famous cigarettes
which to this day are known as De Reszkes.
Go on smoking them.”
DE RESZKE
Virginias
TEN FOR NINEPENCE
in 20’s. 50’s and 100's
J. MILLHOFF & CO., LTD., 86 PICCADILLY, LONDON, W.l.
Agents for N.S.W.: DALGETY & COMPANY LTD., Sydney.
but it may surprise many to learn that,'
according to statistics given in the April
National Geographical Magazine, the
farm value of poultry products exceeded last
year by more than 150 million dollars the
value of all cattle raised; by nearly 000
million dollars the value of wheat raised;
and by approximately 400 million dollars
the value of all fruit and fruit products.
A small valley in California, about 1-
miles by 30 in area, called Petaluma (other-
wise the “Nation’s Egg Basket”), where
hundreds of thousands of white leghorns are
massed, produced 51 million dozen eggs last
year. At present a mammoth incubator is
being constructed there to carry 1,800,000
eggs. By concentrating in one place, expen-
sive machinery can be profitably installed. At
the receiving depots in the Petaluma Val-
ley, where the eggs are taken the day they
are laid, machines are in use to obviate the
tedious business of washing by scouring them
with sand blown on tnem by compressed air.
Also, eggs intended for distant markets are
“processed” by running them through a vat
of specially prepared oil, which closes the
pores of the shell and helps to keep them
fresh while in cold storage.
Two things make Petaluma an ideal
locality for poultry-farming: an abundance
of sunshine and plenty of green food. Many
parts of Australia are equally favored.
FULL-WEIGHT EGGS NECESSARY.
“Practical”: The most important item in
the export side or our poultry industry is
size and weight of eggs. It is possible to
build up in any flock the desired character
of producing only the standard 2oz. egg. To
do so it is necessary to breed only from liens
that las a full-weight 2oz. egg or over, and
for the male bird to come from a line of
known big-egg producing ancestors. Then by
a rigid system of hard culling of nil stock
used for stud purposes, and extra care with
the sire of your mating, it takes but a couple
of years to accomplish the task. Don’t
breed from young females, as the tendency
in their progeny is downward, not upward.
Second-season hens are best; but don’t dis-
card either male or female even up to three
or four years if they have proved satisfactory
in every particular in their first years.
How important this question is considered
can be gathered from the fact that, on the
advice of the Minister of Markets and Migra-
tion (Mr. Paterson), the Federal Executive
Council has approved of regulations govern-
ing the exportation from the Commonwealth
of eggs (in shell) and egg-pulp. The eggs
are to be classified into two sizes, namely (a)
not less than 1541 b. net weight per each long
100 (10 doz.) eggs, no egg weighing less than
20z.; and ( b) not less than 141 b. net weight
per each 10 doz. eggs, no egg to weigh less
than Ifoz. All eggs are to be fresh, clean,
of uniform size and not misshapen. Provi-
sion is made for examination of premises, and
of eggs and conditions under which they are
packed for export. Trade descriptions must
be marked on all boxes, that is (a) or (b)
size, in addition to net weight per long 100
(10 doz.), and a certificate will be granted
to each separate pack. All this has been
deemed necessary in order to protect the
industry against loss of prestige abroad.
AGENTS.
“Two Seas”: A lot of men on the land
strike trouble when they have put their pro-
perties in agents' hands for sale. Most of
it could be avoided if the vendors exercised
a little business caution. For instance, if
the property is given to several agents the
vendor should, in each case, state in writing
that he will pay commission (amount named)
only to the agent who introduces the ultimate
purchaser. When the contract is signed he
should notify all agents by letter or advertise-
ment that the property is sold. Should the
vendor, after putting his property in several
agents’ hands, decide to raise his price, he
should notify all the agents, stating the in-
creased price. If he neglects to do so and
an agent who has not been informed of the
increased price brings a buyer to inspect at
the old price, the vendor will be placed in a
very awkward position from which it will
cost him something to escape. It is also
advisable, if an agent introduces a buyer who
does not then close the deal, for the owner
to decline to negotiate with the same buyer
through another agent later on. If he makes
a deal through the second agent he will
probably have to pay commission to both.
Therefore it is best to be off with the old
agent before you are on with the new;
for if it comes to court business over a
commission, the agent is invariably given the
benefit of the doubt.
PASPALUM SEED.
“Clarenza”; The harvesting of paspalum
seed has become quite an important side-
line of the dairying industry on the north
coast of N. S. Wales. The fine seed of this
grass develops better there than in any other
part of the globe known to seedsmen, and
the local product is exported by the ton to
Maoriland, South Africa, North and South
America and other spots on the map, and
is also in demand throughout our own con-
tinent. The harvest time is from mid-
January to mid-April, and during that period
good money is earned by expert harvesters
who can pick the right quality as well as
get the quantity. The price varies from
6d. to Is. 6d. per lb. Most of the seed
is bought by agents for the exporters, and
Coff’s Harbor and Murwillumbah are the
principal trading centres. Even the children
in the seed districts engage in the work,
and it is no uncommon thing to see young-
sters bringing in their little lots to the
buyers in all sorts of receptacles, and col-
lecting enough cash for an orgy at “the
pictures.”
CAN WE GROW OUR OWN COTTON?
Crawford Vaughan: Good news for the
Australian cotton-grower comes from the
land of the boll-weevil. Under the pressure
of low prices and high wages the cotton belt
is shifting from the black to the white States,
Texas planting 7,000,000 more acres, with
Georgia area declining. White labor with
up-to-date machinery on big areas is beating
the inefficient one-mule nigger farmer out of
sight. Cost of production of five prizc-win-
ning white Texan growers last year averaged
4.00 cents a pound against an average all-
American cost of 18 cents and an average
price of only 11 cents. Hand picking, our
chief impediment to big cotton production, is
superseded in Texas by “sledding,” so says
the U. S. Dept, of Agriculture in circular
101 on Agricultural Outlook for 1927. The
department, which has a reputation for re-
liability, says:—
A growing shortage of cotton labor and the suit-
ability of the more level lands to machine methods
of production have encouraged the use of improved
farm implements in the valleys and in the semi-arid
areas of the cotton belt.... To the newer methods
of cotton growing in the more level, semi-arid sec-
tions a new method of harvesting known as sledding
has been added. Sleds were first used for this
purpose in an extensive way during the last days of
October, 1926. Almost immediately their use be-
came so general in Western Texas and Oklahoma as
to displace rather abruptly the pickers and snappers.
One man can sled from two to three bales of cotton
a day at a cost of about three dollars a bale. The
cleaning equipment on gins was immediately modi-
fied to handle sledded cotton.
Against this sledding cost of 12s. 6d. a bale
Australian picking by hand costs approxi-
mately £9 7s. 6d. a bale, Whether the grade
is affected by sledding I cannot say, but the
difference will allow of some margin. Any-
way, the Australian cotton-growers who are
up against the picking- problem will want a
Searching inquiry into this new development.
BANANAS IN BANANALAND.
“Grower”: The banana is a voracious
feeder and will in most eases exhaust the
land in four or five years. To restore the
soil it is customary in Queensland to let
lantana run over it for a couple of years,
when it may again be used for raising the
same fruit. Lantana is a wonderful ferti-
liser, the fine roots pulverising the soil and
being also great collectors of nitrogenous
nutriment.
Skilled banana-growers make big profits,
but the business is a great gamble owing to
the prevalence of pests, thrip, beetles, rust
and “bunchy” all conspiring to beat Cocky.
Near Currumbin (S.Q.) I passed through
over 20 miles of abandoned banana country
two years ago ; and at Nerang, sigatoka, the
dread Fiji disease, made its appearance about
18 months ago.
But the real enemy of the South Queens-
land banana-man is the grower up about
Cairns, the Tully and Innisfail, where soil
and climatic conditions are ideal and pests
so far are almost unknown. The annual out-
put from these far-northern areas is waxing
enormously.
HINTS FOR THE FARM.
“E.H.”: Roup is the poultry-farmer’s win-
ter nightmare. It develops as a thick, yellow
cheese-like matter in the throat, is highly
infectious, and if not treated will spread
rapidly. Segregation should be done at once,
and in bad cases it is wise to kill and burn
the birds. The clean birds should be kept
in a warm house and the food sprinkled with
ginger or pepper. The affected birds must
be treated individually by holding over hops
covered with boiling water, and portion of
the gathering removed and the parts painted
with weak Condy's fluid. Wash the hands
with carbolic soap after handling affected
birds. The addition of rock sulphur to the
drinking-water and fumigation of the houses
with burning sulphur is also advisable.
“Almanac”: “J.F.S.” (B. 19/5/’27) men-
tions greenliide as a flail for bush-fires, but
rarely is it available on the ordinary farm.
An excellent substitute near the coast is
kelp. Cut into strips about four inches wide
and from three to four feet long and nail to
anything suitable for a handle with flat-
headed nails; also bind with soft, black wire.
It will keep well if put in salt-water casks
near the shanty and the Devil himself
couldn’t burn it.
“Sendee”: A jibbing horse can often be
started by the driver getting out and taking
an imaginary stone or two out of Dobbin’s
hoofs. But it may not work if the whip
has been previously used too freely.
“Bendee”: Rivet a pad of thick leather
on your stirrup-irons, and you will not get
chilled feet when in the saddle.
. “Bushie”: Re “.T. McG.” on operating on
the bull. Why throw him? All that is
necessary is to tie him up and work on him
standing. Get direct behind and make sure
you cut the bottom of the purse so that there
will be no trouble with drainage. I have
fixed up hundreds and never had any trouble.
“J.A.G.”: About three years ago a fire-
fighting organisation was formed at James-
town (S.A.). This organisation has now
spread throughout the North. It is doing
good practical work and has also been instru-
mental in introducing several drastic
amendments to existing legislation. It has
the power to appoint controllers, who have
the same authority as fire-brigade officers.
=K * * *
“Two Seas”: Hitherto I have sniffed at
yarns regarding peculiar birthmarks on
animals. But seeing is believing, and our
Strawberry has brought home a calf already
earmarked with a Y out of the point of
each ear. I showed the calf to an old
cattleman and he said he’d never before seen
anything like it. Neither have I.
* :!: * *
“Key” : Besides having all the virtues lately
catalogued, subterranean clover is a fine
thing to bind loose and friable soils. Its
usefulness is well known to those playing
cricket in the country where it flourishes.
When the old W.C.C. club played at S.
Warrnambool (Vic.) the black, swampy soil
was so intractable that, in preparing match-
wickets, grass-cuttings had to be forced into
the turf as a binding material; but with
the gradual spread of subterranean clover,
the turf became so firm arid compressed by
the matted roots that the local club used the
same pitch for months on end, and coir
wickets became the exception.
* * * *
“N. or M.” : Re the “gateless gate.” Neither
S. Africa nor Australia can lay claim to the
brain-wave that originated it. At Tintagel,
in Cornwall (Eng.), there are ancient church-
yards which, in addition to the usual gate,
have a sort of grid of narrow wooden bars
laid across a pit in the way described by
The Bulletin. In the iriiddle is a raised
platform on which a coffin could be rested.
How the bearers negotiated the grid I don’t
know r , but it served to keep four-footed ani-
mals out.


Quality Oleated tfie demand
Quality 'maintains the Sale
Army Club
lO for 9d. CIGARETTES 20 for 1/6
In pure ribbed watermarked rice paper.
C AVANDERS Ltd., London (Est. 1775), Pioneers of Hygienic Cigarette Packing.
i m
Sii
u
i
CORK-TIPPED
or PLAIN
SMOKE-OH!
It’s stiff luck for the patient when the doc-
tor loses his case.
A girl with a nice carriage and pair usually
finishes up by owning a car.
$ ❖
They say that money talks. But all it
says to most of us is “Good-bye!”
* *
At four-o’clock tea when one woman is
wound up it is generally another that is run
down.
* *
Lady Conan Doyle says that people will
work in Heaven. Domain Dan says he
thought there was a catch in it somewhere.
PUT ON PACE FROM THE JUMP.
“Fancy those two married already, and only friends
a month.”
“Yes, but they were always fast friends.”
A self-evident proposition goes without
saying. That is why no woman is a self-
evident proposition.
Sharks devoured the crew of a wrecked
steamer in the Philippines, and the Age
solemnly observes: —
The belief is advanced that a school of sharks was
near by when the ship foundered, and made towards
their prey.
Acted on their own initiative, in fact, instead
of waiting till school was out and reading
about it in the Manila Evening News.
❖ sk
I hope to hold this hand in mine
Before I leave to-night;
I swear that there is nothing else
Could yield such sweet delight.
I tell you now, my Queen of Hearts,
That nothing shall we lack,
If I can buy, and hold with you,
Four aces from the pack.
N.s.w. F. A. L.
In the suburbs every tittle has its tattle.
Many a girl’s fall has started with a motor
trip.
The road to bankruptcy is paved with
great pretensions.
On Monday morning a man feels glad of
the rent in his garments.
When his wife begins to talk, a man learns
what it is to be in a woman’s pow-wow-er.
Spiritualism, a contemporary remarks, is
pure logic. Some of it’s Oliver Lodgic.
Many a man’s occupation can be told by
his features. A politician, for instance, can
generally be told by his “I’s.”
An old man of 72 was taken in by con-
fidence tricksters in Melbourne the other
day. That is what is called living to a
green old age.
Night after night, batch after batch,
On every station in the land,
Are those who stand a train to catch,
And catch a train —to stand !
A beggar who died in an American in-
firmary was found to be wearing a dirty old
coat which was literally lined with hundred-
dollar bills. Over 40.000 dollars were found
altogether. Evidently he had padded the oof
a lot in that old coat.
5k 5k
All trouble’s relative, of course;
But those who marry wives
Will learn, in long months of remorse,
Their trouble’s rela-tives.
n.s.w. I’ercy Pawnticket.
“Harold Ilardupp”: My friend who is
selling electric house-cleaners put it to one
intended customer that she could pay for
it by instalments, whilst having the use of
the machine. “And for only 20 shillings
a month —eightpence per day, Mrs. Mac-
pherson,” lie urged. The lady at last said
she would buy. “But ye’ll hae tae tak’
off fooer eightpences for th’ Sawbaths,” she
said. “We dae nae wark in thic hoose on
th’ Sawbath.”
Following on the Russian embassy raid in
London “thousands of documents were re-
moved for perusal.” These, of course, were
taken as Red.
The S. M. Herald remarks that at a re-
cent dance those who did not wash to dance
played cards. Quite right. It is a better
plan than smothering up with powder.
* *
“The bread, wrote a recent traveller on
an English liner, “is baked in two batches.
The second batch, which is infinitely the
better, is reserved for the first-class pas-
sengers ; the second goes to the steerage.”
In strange ways social rules bind fast
All Adam’s sons and daughters;
The day has come when bakers caste
Their bread upon the waters.
Love at first sight—divorce at first slight.
After she's been through a few adventures,
what a woman says grows.
Some of these ancient flappers could do
with a good dressing down.
* «
The laziest husband and the busiest wife
are alike in one respect —their work is never
done.
JAZZING TO GRAN’PA’S SNORES.
After marriage many a man develops club-
feet.
* *
The people’s part in the government of a
country is mainly part up.
❖ ❖
At 20 it’s easier to save the world than it
is - at .‘l5 to save half a crown a week.
“Have you heard,” asked my neighbor, “of
poor Mrs. Girr?
She swallowed a spoon, and for weeks
couldn’t stir;
Then they called Dr. Fixit, who, seeing her
plight,
Ordered pen and ink for her, and that made
her write!”
“The same doctor.” I told her, “cured cross-
eyed Miss Black.
Poor thing, when she cried the tears ran
down her back!
But he. started to treat her, I’m pleased to
relate,
For bacteria, and now both her eyes have
come straight.”
n.s.w. .Till Man,set.
It’s a queer trick of nature’s lliat while
art is long, its devotees are nearly always
short.
The quickest way to convince a man that
the girl he worships is not an angel is to
hasten on the marriage.
A friend in need is a friend indeed —he
thinks so much of you that he would lend
you a million if he had it.
* *
Those people who boast of their ancestors
make us think they belong to a family which
is better dead than alive.
An anthropologist asserts that the Aus-
tralian abos. are the children of Ilam. But
then some people think that even Sliakspeare
was Bacon.
“Wayfarer”: Business was none too brisk
with tile auction bookie. “ ’Ere, twenny-fi’
to wan the Dope.” (No takers among the
100 or so punters around his stand.) “ ’Ere,
then, fifty ter one.” (Deathly silence.)
“Carm on, a ’undred to one the Dope, I’ll
lay.” (Nothing doing.) “Well, ’ere yare—
is there a sport among you? I’ll lay a pound
to a cigarette the Dope!” A brawny Scot
took the freak bet and became the possessor
of a pound ticket on the despised outsider.
The Dope won by a length. Up went Scotty
to collect. Bar Von paid the quid and
destroyed the ticket. Out went Scotty’s
hand again. “Well, what now, sir?” asked
the bookie —“didn’t I pay you in full?”
“Aye,” said Scotty, “but ye didna gie me
back ma stake.”
The passengers on the Sydney trams are
standing up for the Government more than
any other section of the community.
When lawyers fall out it is the client who
loses his balance.
“Poets are born”—and editors have been
known to wonder why.
There’s nothing like getting on a bend to
bring you into straightened circumstances.
* V
An English shirt-making concern adver-
tises “special comfortable garments for stout
gentlemen.” Evidently the firm has a wide
public.
“Hers is a face that grows on one,” I said.
He glanced, and answered, as he shook his
head :
“ ’Tis not my way a lady to discuss;
Let’s .just be glad it didn’t grow on us!"
victoria. Bock.
* *
The barrowmen are probably the best
business people we have. They can make
a good profit on a rotten turnover.
These short-hour-day advocates have
science on their side. Observation proves
that more working people go to pot between
5 and 6 p.m. than in any earlier hour
of the day.
THE WONDERS OF SCIENCE.
“These ’ere telephones are marvellous things.
’Elio, ’ello. Is that the Information
Bewrie. Can you tell me where Bill
Bowyang from Bungaboo is stayin’?”
SING A SONG OF THOUSANDS.
“A Dunedin worker says there are too many secre-
taries in the trade unions. Subscriptions collected
there for the year amount to £24,000, but only
£4OOO is left after paying salaries and exes.”
Sing a song of unions,
Pockets full of splosh;
Four and twenty thousands,
Levies all, b’gosli!
Sing a song of secs., too,
Not a bird that’s “black,”
Cuddling right up next to
All that lovely “jack.”
Mix ’em in and shake ’em,
Spice ’em rather high ;
Then go ahead and bake ’em
In a luscious pie.
When employers rot you,
Never fear to fight,
Knowing what you’ve got to
Sate your appetite.
Sing a song of striking;
Now you’ve got the chance,
Sniffing to your liking
The pie of shrewd finance.
When the pie was opened
The secs, began to sing;
Now, wasn’t that a funny dish—
They’d eaten the dam’ thing!
QUEENSLAND.
HASEN.
UNSPORTSMANLIKE.
He knew the solicitor and came to him
with a face full of trouble. His wife had
left home the previous day,
and he wanted to know how
best to get her back.
“What happened to cause
her to go? Come, think!”
prompted the solicitor, as the
husband hesitated.
“There was nothing un-
usual,” lie answered slowly.
“But as I was wiping the
porridge from my hair” —- —
“The porridge from your
hair? How on earth”
“She threw it. I’ll admit
I’d thrown a cup of tea over
her; but, then, she had hit
me over the head with a wet
dislirag.”
“What for?” asked the
lawyer.
“Well, I’d pitched her hat
into the sink; but she’d
locked up my trousers first!”
“Locked up your trou-
sers !”
“Ah, I see now why she
cleared out!” and the hus-
band’s face suddenly beamed
with the light of discovery.
“It was me throwing that
photo-frame. It wasn’t sport-
ing of me to throw that after
throwing the dish. It was her turn.”
PERCY PAWNTICKET.
THE WEAKER SEX.
She could jerk a five-pound dumb-bell.
Could fence, crank up a car and box;
She could stroke a boat upon the river,
And could climb Ben Buckler’s rocks ;
She could golf from early morn to eve,
And fox-trot all night long;
But she couldn’t do the housework
Because she wasn’t very strong.
N.S.W.
SUCRE.
WHERE THE DIGGER DUG.
C. H. P.
“Eggs and Chips”—
How oft we licked our lips
O’er this repast.
“Des ceufs ct frittes —
While madame sits
Aghast.
Cafe noir
A-la- war—
Colored water!
It made us think,
Did mau'ame’s wink
At her daughter!
What did it matter?
Madame’s patter:
“Lets lons Austra.n ns,
Brave, sans pear,
Je les aime ....
Deux francs, monsieur.”
And mademoiselle,
Vivante belle:
“Je t'aime, monsieur,
Tu as mon coeur.
Oh, la, la!”
Doh-ray-me-fali!
For what we drank,
Encore un franc!
So did we fare
Pendant la guerre,
Victims of the Slaughter!
QUEENSLAND.
RONDEAU OF ULTIMATE RESOURCE.
Smoke-oh, smoke-oh! What memories
On your blue clouds in silence rise
Out of your necromancer’s bowl,
With its red heart of fragrant coal!
Vaulting essays of high emprise
In strange, wild lands; or tear-filled eyes.
And nought but unavailing sighs
When you come round to take your toll —
Smoke-oh, Smoke-oh !
Ah, well! Not all of us are wise
Enough to seize the day that flies.
And not for all that strait control
That makes the master of his soul.
For us, less strong, you shall suffice,
Smoke-oh, Smoke-oh !
N.S.W.
J. B. H.


c Digi.
in
9
3
8
4
Three
Supreme
Essentials
In any watch three supreme
essentials are Accuracy,
Durablity, and Value. In
an Elgin these essentials
reach perfection, with the
added merit of supreme
beauty of design.
Elgin-the watchword for
Elegance and Efficiency
OBTAINABLE AT ALL LEADING JEWELLERS
THIS TRADE MARK Wfj IN THE WATCH CASE
dfen thefinest notes
of the violin- €
clean-undistorted
- *
*
■
3k
.//
,-r.-
*
•■~v
n
lUST as you would hear the artist were he
before you, so you are sure of pure Radio
enjoyment, with every fine note and intonation
amplified to its true strength, with “Condor
Valves.”
Made by the makers of “ CONDOR LAMPS ”
CONDOR LAMPS (Australasia) LTD.
SYDNEY, MELBOURNE, ADELAIDE, BRISBANE,
WELLINGTON (N.Z.)
V7t
ifs^L
t
FULL PROSPECTUS OF
THE CAMPERDOWN ESTATE AND CASH
ORDER COMPANY LIMITED
(To be registered under the New South Wales Companies Acts.)
CAPITAL £50,000
Divided into 50,000 Shares of £1 each.
22,000 Ordinary Shares are offered for public subscription, payable 5/- on applica-
tion, and 5/- on allotment, calls not to exceed 5/- per share per month.
20,000 Ordinary Shares (fully paid), together with the sum of £9600 in cash, to
be paid to the Vendor, H. D. Elliott, for the business and assets of the
Camperdown Estate and Cash Order Co., hereinafter mentioned.
8,000 Ordinary Shares to be held in reserve for future issue.
50,000
PROVISIONAL DIRECTORS;
C. S. ELLIOTT, Manager,
242 Parramatta Road, Camperdown.
H. I). ELLIOTT, Furniture Manufacturer,
240 Parramatta ltoad, Camperdown.
(Three other Directors to be appointed.)
RANKERS:
THE BANK OF NEW SOUTH WALES
(Rozelle Branch).
SOLICITORS:
VILLENEUVE-SMITH AND DAWES,
89 Pitt Street, Sydney.
A UDITOR :
CHARLES GREEN, F.C.C.A.,
232 Parramatta Road, Camperdown.
INTERIM SECRETARY AND REGISTERED
OFFICE :
L. M. HEARD,
242 Parramatta Road, Camperdown.
OBJECTS.
The Company is being formed for the purpose <
acquiring as a going concern from the 30th April
1927, the established and highly profitable busines
now carried on by the Vendor, H. D. Elliott, undi
the style of the Camperdown Estate and Cash Orel*
Company, at 242 Parramatta Road, Camperdown, an
to continue the same on more extensive lines.
THE VENDOR AND REQUIREMENTS.
The new Company will acquire as and from tin
30th day of April, 1927, exclusive of any liability
the established business of the Vendor, trading as The
Camperdown Estate and Cash Order Company, nov
carried on by him at 242 Parramatta Road, Camper
down. This business has been established for two
years, since when the progress has far exceeded Che
expectations of its founders. With additional capital
to finance the increased business that is now offering,
the new Company should be enabled to command
handsome profits.
In addition, the Company will acquire the freehold
of the land and all the buildings erected thereon at
Kerry Road, Glebe, at present valued at £4500. The
company also acquires 12,000 shares at par in O. K.
Elliott’s, Limited, a company carrying on business as
Furniture Manufacturers and Complete Home Fur-
nishers.
SPECIAL FEATURES OF THE BUSINESS
AND FUTURE PROSPECTS.
The new Company will be advantageously placed, as
10 active canvass has been necessary for business, this
oeing brought about through the old-established com-
>any, 0. K. Elliott’s, Limited, Furniture Manufac-
turers and Direct Importers of Home Furnishings,
nduding Pianos, Carpets, Gramophones and Wireless
lets, also Motor-cars, having undertaken to pass all
inquiries for Cash Orders to the Company about to
>e formed.
A further advantage is that most of the furniture
elected on Cash Order is manufactured at the factory
>f 0. Iv. Elliott’s, Limited, The Crescent, Annandale,
and the Company will thereby be able to give cus-
omers the benefit of keen prices as the result of
iirect factory to customers trading.
Clients are always assured of a modern stock to
boose from, and all applications for Cash Orders will
lie treated on their individual merits, reasonable
deposits accepted and terms of repayment made
easy, as has been the practice in the past.
The new Company is not entering upon an untried
speculative business, but acquires an already firmly
established enterprise. The business in sight is
practically unlimited. In reference to the extensive
and growing demand for Cash Orders, it is as well to
point out that it is not intended to issue Orders for
any perishable commodity, but to deal strictly in
Furniture, Furnishings, Motor-cars, etc., which remain
a realisable asset until paid for.
PURCHASE CONSIDERATION.
The Vendor will receive the sum of £29,600 as the full purchase consideration
for the business, made up as follows:
£9,600 to be paid in cash, and
£20,000 by the issue of 20,000 fully-paid-up shares.
The assets to be acquired, as per certified Balance-sheet, audited by Charles Green,
F.C.C.A., as at 30th April, 1927, are as follows:
Furniture on hire . . . . . . . . . . £1 1,040 9 8
Freehold Properties, Ferry Road, Glebe . . . . 4,300 0 0
12,000 £1 Shares in O. K. Elliott’s, Limited . . 12,000 0 0
Furniture in use . . . . . . . . . . 100 0 0
Goodwill . . , . . . . . . , . . 2,000 0 0
£29,640 9 8
PROFITS.
As an investment, Camperdown Estate and Cash Order Shares are gilt-edged,
as there is more than reasonable expectation of the shares reaching a point greatly
in excess of what they are being offered for. The Company has filled an actual
need in Sydney by offering household goods, furniture and furnishings of every
description on reasonable deposit and easy terms. For the period of 10 months
; (30/6/’26 to 30/4/’27) the earnings of the business amounted to £2099 1 Is. Id.
! before taking into account administration and usual overhead charges. Based on
this result the earnings over the twelve months would be approximately £2500.
The Company would be enabled to increase its operations considerably with the
additional capital required at its disposal, and the earnings would be much greater
during the ensuing year. After making the reduction of £794 14s. 7d., which covers
all outgoings, a Net Return of £1304 16s. 6d. is made on the capital invested. This
equals a cleqr 1 4 per cent, profit for the period of 1 0 months. The profits earned
by similar companies trading in Sydney have been exceptionally large. The Hire-
Purchase Sales effected by this Company are generally made to cover a period of
12 months; a reasonable deposit is accepted and the terms made easy by weekly,
fortnightly or monthly instalments, carrying interest on the flat rate of I 0 per cent.,
which means that the actual rate of interest accruing to the Company ranges from
15 per cent, to 20 per cent., without taking into account the fact that on all goods
sold on Flire-Purchase and bought from O. K. Elliott’s, Limited, a discount of 5 per
| cent, is allowed the Company on everything purchased. The Company is also able
to re-invest the instalment moneys and so obtain advantage of the pyramiding
process. This is where the large profits are.
PROPERTY.
The land and buildings above referred to are situate at Ferry Road, Glebe, and
the title is Torrens. The land is a corner block with a frontage to Ferry Road of
181 ft. and 129 ft. 7in. to Avon Street, by a depth of 180 ft. on the south side
and 12ft. on the northern side. On the land is erected a 12-roomed brick
and stone house, and also a brick and stone store containing two floors, each 80ft.
x 40ft., which are let at a fair rental.
MANAGEMENT.
Mr. Clyde S. Elliott has charge of the Camperdown
| Estate and Cash Order Company, and his special
I training in dealing with new business will make his
i services invaluable to the Company.
Mr. Henry D. Elliott, the founder of 0. K. Elliott's,
Limited, will be a Director, taking an active part in
the business generally, and his valued experience will
certainly be of great assistance to the Company.
Three other Directors remain to be appointed.
AGREEMENT.
The only agreement affecting the Company is as
follows:
Agreement dated this 26th day of May, 1927, be-
tween Henry David Elliott, Vendor, of the first part,
and Lillias May Heard, on behalf of the new Com-
pany, of the second part, agreeing to the sale of the
business and other assets of the Vendor for the con-
sideration above-mentioned. Contract may be in-
spected at the office of the Secretary, 242 Parramatta
Road, Camperdown, together with copies of Memoran-
dum and Articles of Association, valuation of free-
hold, certified report, and balance-sheet.
REGISTRATION.
The Company will be registered and allotment may
be proceeded with when 10,000 shares have been
applied for. If no allotment be made, the amount of
subscription will be returned in full. Applications
for Shares, accompanied by cheques (crossed “Cam-
perdown Estate and Cash Order Company”), should
be made and forwarded to the Provisional Directors,
242 Parramatta Road, Camperdown. And all money
received for application for Shares shall be paid to
the credit of the new Company at the Bank of New
South Wales, Rozelle Branch. Brokerage at
the rate of 6d. per share will be payable by the
Company on any shares applied for through recog-
nised brokers. Expenses and costs incidental to and
for the formation of this Company will be borne by
the Company.
APPLICATION FOR SHARES.
To the Directors,
THE CAMPERDOWN ESTATE AND CASH ORDER CO., LTD.,
242 Parramatta Road, Camperdown.
I hereby make application for shares in the
Camperdown Estate and Cash Order Company, Limited (to be registered), upon the terms of
the prospectus issued in relation to the said intended Company, dated the 28th of May, 1927.
And I agree to accept the same or any less number that may be allotted to me.
I herein enclose the sum of being the amount payable
on application for the said shares, and I agree to pay the further sum of 5/- per share on
allotment and the balance as provided by the said prospectus.
And I request and authorise you to register me as the holder of the shares so allotted, and
I agree to be bound by the Articles and Memorandum of Association of the Company when
registered.
SIGNATURE
NAME IN FULL . . .
(Mr., Mi's., Miss)
ADDRESS ....
DESCRIPTION
Dated this ..,
day of
. 1927.


SOCIAL PROBLEMS
\\
r :A ' 4 |\
PV^t
i '* pi - 'h
>r\
r cf
r>- q.u
ir
W--
>
J
i»l? V/
V *
4
Jl~\
£
a
V
€
¥
y
I
L
s:
&
M
4£~
A, entertaining at a strange restaurant a party which he particu-
larly requires to impress, having made his presence thoroughly
felt with complaints of the food, the wine, the service, the
temperature of the room and the noise of the band, finds, when
the opportunity for settlement of account and distribution of
largesse presents itself, that his supply of ready cash is far from
equal to the demand.
What should A do?
This is an easy one: the answer is—
LIGHT AN ABDULLA.
Fougasse,
(\BDULLA superb CIGARETTES
TURKISH EGYPTIAN VIRGINIA


THE WOMAN’S MIRROR”
Contains everything that women should know, from kitchen to
drawing-room, from the cradle to old age.
FREE PATTERN EVERY WEEK.
It is the most remarkable Threepennyworth ever printed
“THE WOMAN’S MIRROR.”
PUBLISHED EVERY TUESDAY,
Price
3d
Visitors to Brisbane! Book up at the
HOTEL CECIL
(FIRST CRASS)
Reasonable Tariff—Good Position.
Write
to
MARTIN DITCHER’S TRIUMPH.
Mr. H. L. Tooth, Murami Irrigation Settlement, on
the Murrumbidgee, writes:—
“The ten acres of rice field yielded me 144*
bushels. I consider the use of the Martin Ditcher
reduced the cost of ditching and check bank work
by 50 per cent.”
The photograph shows a section of Mr. Tooth’s
fine field which was recently described in the Agri-
cultural Gazette. Many other rice farmers are
now using the Martin Ditcher.
CHALLIS HOUSE,
MARTIN PLACE, SYDNEY.
499 Little Collins Street, .Melbourne.
Campbell’s Buildings, Creek Street, Brisbane.
T. T. Buildings, Light Suiiare, Adelaide.
Queen Street, Perth. S.B.
The Old Prospectors.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
TUCKED snugly into a fold beside the
gully the hut revealed its age by its
patches. Behind it, surrounded by a
goat-proof fence, was a vegetable garden,
in which pumpkins flourished exceedingly.
It was only on Sundays old Western attended
the garden. On a rough bench in front of
the hut was a tin dish, a cake of soap, and,
carefully spread to dry, a grubby towel.
Under the bench were broken or worn-out
miner’s tools, and a couple of fossicker’s
dishes. The hut was quite hidden from the
road, which ran by the creek at the exit
of the gully a quarter of a mile away; it
was as-isolated as if the nearest inhabitant
was miles away.
Up and down the gully, along the banks
of the creek, were the rush-fringed pools
which were collapsed mining shafts. In
place of the trees a vigorous growth of sap-
lings, tall and straight, many already trees,
was Nature’s effort to restore the ravages
of the diggers. They had numbered thou-
sands, but when the tide of them subsided
Western was left, a bit of human flotsam,
stranded in the gully. Narrow-eyed from
ever peering into crevices, bent of body and
round-shouldered, with a thatch of snowy
hair and a fringe of straggling beard, West-
ern was still a strong man, and in his eyes
glowed ever the misty dream of gold.
On the flat surface of a dump from a
tunnel driven into the hillside was the hut
of Jones, as patched and old as Western’s.
But there was no garden behind it. A few
miner’s tools and dishes indicated his osten-
sible occupation. It was really only half
of his occupation. From the bench under
the bark verandah, and from the small win-
dow and door, he could see Western’s hut;
beyond it the creek and the road. Nobody
conld use the length of road visible between
the slopes at the mouth of the gully without
being seen by Jones, nor could one enter
the gully unseen by him, while the brown
of his hut blended so well with the brown
and green of dump and hillside that it was
barely visible a quarter of a mile away.
Unlike Western’s squat chimney, his smoked
all day and nearly every day, specially when
the air was misty, which it frequently was
in the damp gully.
For vegetables Jones depended upon West-
ern, for drink that was neither tea nor
water Western depended upon Jones; and
though it was obvious to Jones whence came
the vegetables, Western tactfully was silent
about the origin of the whisky. No gold
had ever come out of the tunnel, but Jones
brought from it that which he turned mod-
estly into gold.
From his bench he had seen the leisurely
and scanty traffic along the road change from
horse to motor, and become more frequent,
which made him uneasy. But it passed more
quickly, and nobody as yet betrayed an
interest in the secluded gully. Rounded
hills clothed with the primeval forest rolled
on all sides. They had been searched and
searched again for the reefs that had filled
the creek and gullies with gold. Many had
been found, all small, some exceedingly rich,
but all had cut out abruptly. A geologist
had remarked once that the country had
faulted horizontally. And it was the belief,
particularly of Western, that if he could
determine how far and in what direction
the country had slipped, he would be able
to pick up the lost reefs; it was this hope
that had kept him searching, scraping a
living from the crevices meanwhile. The
problem was almost the sole topic of con-
versation between him and Jones.
There was another —the kids. But they
were introduced by Jones only when argu-
ment about the reefs grew heated. Then
Western became sullenly monosyllabic. They
were the real behind his dream.
Twenty-five years before, a woman with
two children had come to Western’s hut.
Whether he was married nobody knew and
nobody cared. The younger child, a girl,
was a toddler, the boy was perhaps eighteen
months older. They were as wild and active
as the goats that rambled the hills, as shy
as rabbits. When seen at all they were
mostly running behind something, and their
tousled, yellow’ heads alone showed above
a log. from a bush, peering from w-ide,
suspicious blue eyes. Shoes they never wore,
and their clothing was the scantiest, and
ragged. When the girl w r as six the mother
died. No name, only a mound, marked her
grave in the little cemetery six miles away.
The children appeared neither better nor worse
for their loss, unless becoming more elusive and
more timid w r as worse. When the girl was
about nine and the boy ten they faded into
the mist of a drizzly day, and were seen no
more; wrnre missed by nobody except Jones.
And his first intimation of their absence was
Western coming himself with the vegetables
and the small, blackened billy.
“Where’s them kids?”
“Dunno.”
And that was all Western ever said about
thein. But that they were still in his mind
was revealed once.
Western discovered another reef. When
he and Jones opened it up it was so rich
that they were able to knap out lumps of
gold from the stone. Its richness inspired
them to furious energy, and they worked
late into the night, till they could scarcely
stand; then they built a fire beside it to
camp and watch. Jones Avent for blankets
and with them brought a billy of whisky.
After the second pannikin Western
stretched upwards his powerful but weary
arms, his eyes glowing with more than the
drink; then he sat down by the fire. “I'll
put a proper stone on ’er grave. I’ll get
them kids; the gel I’ll dress in 'silk an’
satin; the lad I’ll send ter collige ter be
eddicated like a gentleman—give ’im the
bes’ learnin’ in the land. Lord, but you’ve
bin good ter me at las’!”
Then he saw Jones staring at him curi-
ously.
“Where’s them kids?”
“Dunno.”
The reef cut out abruptly. What money
they had made they put back in search of
its continuation. A few months later Western
was scraping the crevices and Jones was
busy in the tunnel. But they still dreamt.
It was Sunday. From his bench Jones
watched dully the passing motors on the
A POSER FOR UNCLE.
“Uncle, how do the hens know the size oj our eggcups?”
distant road —Western throwing green stuff
over the fence to the eager goats—and lis-
tened indifferently to the birds. Recent rain
had filled the gully with the gentle murmur
of water, washed the dust from the bronzed
tips of the saplings and filled the air with
the fresh, moist odor of drying vegetation.
He saw Western enter his hut, and presently
emerge with a bag over his shoulder, a
small, blackened billy in his hand. Rising,
Jones went inside and brought out a tin
jug of whisky, which he placed on the bench
beside him. When Western arrived he put
the bag of vegetables by the door, filled his
billy from the jug, then sat down.
“Any luck. John?”
“So-so, Dick. Got a patch in Wattle
Gully.”
“The las’ rain?”
Western nodded. “Looks as if it might be
the place.” By “the place” he meant where
the big reef was to 'be found. “More comes
down there than anywhere else after rain.”
Which instantly started the old discussion.
From the very extent of their knowledge of
the country they grew confused as to the
significance of their facts, and were soon, as
usual, reduced to contradicting each other,
growing warmer till Jones was compelled to
produce his last card: “Where’s them kids?”
If Western made his customary reply he
failed to hear it, for he was staring intently
at a motor-car that had stopped on the
distant road. Both stood up and watched as
a man in a linen coat scrambled down the
scarred bank of the creek, then disappeared
in the timber. He reappeared at Western's
hut, into which he looked; then, glancing up,
he saw the two old men on the dump, and
started towards them. Jones hurriedly
entered the hut. When he reappeared a
young man in a linen coat, smiling eagerly,
was coming over the edge of the dump.
Striding forward, he held out his hand to
Western.
“Don’t you know me, Dad?”
Western rose stiffly, rubbing his palm on
liis trouser leg, his lower jaw drooping, his
old eyes dimming.
“Tommy! Where’s Effie?”
“She’s all right, Dad. She sent me to
bring you home.” Western gazed uncertainly
down the gully. “We have a nice little
place, Dad, with a garden at the back, where
you can grow vegetables, or not, just as you
choose.” He spoke eagerly.
“You got an eddication, Tommy.”
“So did Effie, and now we have a business,
which is better, and you must come home
to us.”
Western frowned. “I’ve bin ’ere fifty
year,” he mumbled.
Glancing behind him he sat down as if
suddenly feeling the weight of the years.
“You must come, Dad,” said Tommy
gently, his eyes soft with pity.
“Why don't yer go?” snapped Jones.
“You was a long time cornin’,” murmured
Western.
“Leave the kids alone,” said Jones angrily.
Western rose stiffly. “I’m goin’,” he
said.
Jones saw them enter the hut, then
watched them as they crossed the creek.
When the car hummed softly away he
looked at the black billy. He stared at the
road again, and was still staring when the
lengthening shadows of the trees told him
the sun was sinking. Then he saw the bag
of vegetables. “Cudn’t take ’is garden, any-
way.” Taking up the billy he drank its
contents, then tried to think of his coil
and still, till he was aware of feeling dizzy,
and knew he was lonely. “Blarst ’im!”
Going inside he drank more whisky, and
throwing himself on his bunk he fell asleep,
drunk.
In the morning the was awakened by the
hilarious laughter of half a dozen kooka-
burras. “Blarst ’em!” he muttered bitterly. It
was as if they heard him, for they roared
with laughter till it faded away in exhausted
bursts to a single chuckle. His head was
fuzzy as he rose. Involuntarily he glanced
through the window to the smokeless chimney
of Western’s hut, and turning quickly away
he got his breakfast. The state of his head
for the time being killed any interest in his
still, and he thought of Western’s bit of
luck in Wattle Gully. As lie trudged to the
spot he revolved in his mind all their argu-
ments about the existence of the big reefs
under the horizontal fault. With them came
the old hope, the familiar lure.
For a month they held him, led him up
and down the gullies, knapping, loaming and
picking, but within him an insistent and
growing feeling of something wanting, and
dully realising what it was when, each even-
ing, he looked to Western’s hut and missed
the warm glow from its window. His still
remained disconnected. He sought no society,
nobody sought his; habit alone kept him
doing familiar things, and lie felt even that
was weakening. “I mus’ be gettin’ old,” he
murmured to his startled ears. “Nearly
seventy.”
But numbers and time had no significance
for him, and it was not his years that
weighed on him. “The kids! Blarst ’em!”
He rose with a jerk and took the path to
Western’s hut.
Six weeks’ neglect had made little difference
to its appearance of age. The garden was
run wild ; but within, except for the absence
of some clothing, the hut was just as Western
left it. Thinking it might be convenient to
spend a night there, he built up a fire ready
for lighting, tidied up after him, then spent
the morning trimming and planting the gar-
den. When he was done he carefully fas-
tened the door against the goats. Then re-
turning to his hut he took up his tools and
went to Wattle Gully.
Night had fallen as lie neared his hut, tired
and stiff. Glancing down the gully lie was
startled at seeing the old, familiar glow from
the window. Angered by the thought that
some wandering tramp had taken possession,
he dropped his tools, and, stumbling in the
dark along the track, approached the window
and peered in.
Western was bending over a frying-pan,
dressed as he had never seen him clothed be-
fore.
As he entered, uncertain whether impelled
by anger or pleasure, Western glanced up.
“The garden looks fine,” he said. “An’
it was ’ome-like to come an’ find the fire
made ready. You knowed I’d come back?”
“More fool you!”
“While I wus away I was thinkin’ —
thinkin’ about the lay of that country jus’
above Wattle Gully. That gold I got—you
’member, jus’ before I lef’ —it must ha’ come
from that leader.”
In an instant they were discussing, argu-
ing, contradicting, getting warmer till they
were loudly shouting, and both red in the
face.
“Where’s them kids?” suddenly demanded
Jones.
“Dunno,” said Western sullenly.
W. SABELBERG.
Warriors.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Along the road the columns came,
Their bayonets gleaming, every one
All blood-red in the western flame;
Before, the bugles blew the same
They blew when Waterloo was won.
Their khaki clotted up with mire
Of many a long-marched detour.
Fresh, and untouched by foemen’s fire,
Those lissom limbs held yet the sire
Whose arrows flew at Agincourt.
And I felt, standing by the way,
Thrill in my English soul a chord
t orgotten, of an earlier day,
Silent since Vikings swept to slay
Down some far Scandinavian fjord!
M.L.
R. G. WHITEHEAD.


Children
enjoy
h
it makes them
u)ell and strona
In 4 sizes
of all Chemists & Stores
Nation-Wide Popularity through
Fair Dealing.
The phenomenally rapid growth and nation-wide popularity of the
Producers and Citizens’ may be said to rest on the fact that it lives up
to the spirit as well as the letter of the ideal of Co-operation. For
example, its Policy-holders are protected against forfeiture of their
policies during seasonal emergencies; each year definite sums are
earmarked for loan purposes; while the Company’s intimate know-
ledge of the peculiar needs of the men on the land takes form in
sympathetic, understanding treatment.
The PRODUCERS & CITIZENS’
Co-operative Assurance Co. of
Gov. Dir.:
A. K. Trethowan.
114-120 Castlereagh Street,
Australia, Ltd.,
Sydney.
Gen. Man.:
H. Fell.
EMERGENCIES-
NEVER FAIL
ĥ
for liluttrattd
The Ever-Ready Co. (Gt. Britain)
163 Pitl Street. Sydney
Our Service Department
Tliis page is set apart for the service of Bulletin readers.
If you want anything, including information, you are invited to write to the
Service Department.
The service is entirely free. All you have to do is to attach the coupon from the
inside back cover of last Bulletin to hand.
Readers obliging with replies need not attach coupons.
The right of selection and rejection is reserved.
To facilitate search it is desirable that questions be asked on only one subject at
a time.
Wants.
(Replies should he sent to the number
set against the “Want,” c/o Service
Department, B U LLETIN.)
Practical tenant to lease dairy-farm, 35
cows, run more, city (Sydney) milk zone;
full plant, good house, exc. farm, cabbage
and pea country. Stock or plant at valua-
tion. —602.
Sell scrub-farm, 413 ac., perpetual lease,
rent £7 155.; 50 ac. felled. 25 ac. fenced
and netted into two paddocks; 3-r. house,
verandah, tanks, plant. Perm, well in creek
£BOO, walk in walk out; cash or easy terms:
in ill-healtli. —601.
Young man, 21, five years’ exp. on land,
dairying and back country, wants job
Queensland back country.—s 97.
Trustworthy r. an. excellent refs., single,
40, wants work as liorse-driver; or job any
kind, anywhere.—6l6.
Energetic traveller, good connection Syd-
ney and suburban hardware stores, etc.,
wants place; 5 years last firm; 7 years pre-
vious firm ; first-class salesman. —615.
Sell (£2 10s. per ac.), 2560 acres freehold
on Q. side of Dumaresq River, 19 miles from
Yelarbon railway, 48 from Goondiwindi.
Well fenced, 1500 acres netted, timber dead
for years, splendid country for breeding
lambs and calves.—o3B.
Buyer for 300 ac. freehold southern C.Q.,
frontage of 11m. to ocean beach and one
mile to river. Abundant fishing, river and
deep sea. Good shooting and boating. Vir-
gin forest with useful area suitable for
lucerne and sugar-cane, etc.; good pineapple
and fruitgrowing land; selected 45 years
ag0.—637.
Capable citrus packing-house manager
wanted by Vic. packing house. Must have
thorough knowledge of accounts and hand-
ling of citrus fruits. State salary required.
Duties commence first week July.—63o.
I have worked out a plan for a tea planta-
tion in Papua, where there are very suitable
land and labor. I want someone to join me
with money to carry it out. —669.
Job as watchman by aged, active man. Do
not drink or smoke. Excellent refs, as to
trustworthiness. Very mod. remuneration
for constant position.—66o.
Sell plumbing business in country; man
can make £l2 to £l4 per week; growing
town ; reasons for leaving, sickness; buyer
can have trial.: —663.
Vols. 4,5, 6, 8. 11, 13, 15 and 16 of Lon-
don Punch ; or will sell 3, 7, 9, 10, 12, 14,
17 and 18.—544.
D’Anunzio’s “Dead City” and “Light Under
a Bushel,” P. Balfour’s “Love and Lovers,”
Bourfet’s “Night Cometh,” Stralian’s “Sui-
cide and Insanity,” Gourment’s “Philosophy
of Love” and Saltus’s “Mary Magdalen,”
“Pomps of Satan” and “Philosophy of Dis-
enchantment.” —623.
Whereabouts of Lofty, one time of Cod-
rington Studio. —598.
Words of recitation, “Tim Ilorrigan’s
Mare.” (Replies to J. W. Taylor, Ivingle,
Richmond, Q.)
Sydney man, transf. Melbourne, exchange
£l3OO brick house, every conv., beautiful
order, for similar one in Melbourne. —611.
Owner for a silver watch found near
Mudgee (N.S.W.), May 28. believed dropped
from a Queensland motor-car. —599.
Address of Annie E. Kahler, late of Quil-
pie (Q.), Starr enquiring.—6l7.
McKnight’s “History of Scotland.” —620.
Sell Young’s Concordance, good order, 1088
pages.—6l4.
Position, qualified book-keeper, married,
30; sales, clerical and business exp.; good
salesman ; refs.; go anywhere ; urgent.—6l3.
Copies of “The Queen’s Quair” (1904),
“Dead Man’s Rock” (about 1887), and “The
Westcotes” (1902), English editions. —629.
Information Sought.
What is the contract for the supply of
zinc to the British Government by the Elec-
trolytic Zinc Co.? Date of expiry? —367.
The precise terms of this deal have never
been made known. The contract is, how-
ever, understood to be for the period of the
war and 10 years after the war ended; but
how the ending of the war is to be deter-
mined is not at all clear. The British Gov-
eminent pays a premium of a few pounds
(three, or four) per ton over the price of
G. 0.8. spelter for the E. Z. Co.’s product.
Are any matches made in Australia? By
whom, and by what brand can I distinguish
them ? —595.
British Australian Match Co.. Castlereagh-
street. Sydney ( B.A.M. in a circle) ; Federal
Match Co., Park-road, Alexandria (“Fed-
eral”) ; Australian Match Works, Stawell-
street, Burnie (Vic), (The Bell Wax
Match) ; Bryant and May, Church-street,
Richmond (Vic.). If you can’t get them
at your nearest grocer or tobacconist, write
to the manufacturer.
I want to know the contents of will of
a person (A. 8.1 F.) who died two months ago.
Where do ] apply? Cost? —604.
Registrar of Probate, Supreme Court, Syd-
ney. Fee: Is. Od.
. What English grammar-book or books
should improve my business-letter writing?
Are there practical ivories in connection with
the latter? —s4s.
Butler and Bird’s “Commercial Correspon-
dence, 165.; “Routledge’s Business-Letter
Writer,” 2s. 6d. • Kimr’s “Business-Letter
Writer,” 2s. 6d. ; Nesfield’s “Manual of Eng-
lish Grammar and Composition,” 4s. 6d.;
Tregurtha’s “How to Write Business-Let-
ters, Bs.; Weston’s “Guide to Commercial
Correspondence and Business Composition.”
3s. These are nrocurable at Dymock’s, 428
George-street, Sydney. Postage from 3d. to
sd. extra.
II hat book will nine me instruction re
lathe work (not wood-lathe work) ? Where
can I get it? Price? —543.
G. W. Burley’s “Lathes” (10s.), P. N.
liasluck’s “Lathe Work” (10s.). C. M. Lin-
ley’s “The Lathe-User’s Handbook” (10s.)
and many others. Write Dymock’s, 428
George-street, Sydney, or N.S.W. Bookstall
Co., 476 George-street, Sydney, for full cata-
logue.
How shall I put down a concrete floor in
the separator shed? — 379 a.
Excavate to a depth of sin. below what
is to be the floor surface. Thoroughly mix
5 parts of 1 or metal (stone) with 3
parts good sand and 1 part cement —mix
with water, of course—and lay on the floor
to within lin. of what is to be the surface,
then apply the “rendering finish”—that is,
a wet mixture of 3 parts sand to 1 cement,
spread evenly with trowel to a depth of
one inch. For a cheaper (and less durable)
job the bed of metal may be put down with-
out cement or sand —just plain stones.
Is the charge made by a solicitor for draw-
ing up a lease fixed by law? If so, at what?
—628.
In N.S.W. the solicitor’s fee is regulated
by the Conveyancing Act of 1919 and
determined by the rental paid.
(1) The relative value of horse-hides and
bullock- or cow-hides? (2) Are horse-hides
used much in upholstering? (3) Will tan-
ners buy them? —619.
(1) A first-class horse-liide is equal to a
second-class cow-hide of same weight. But
very few first-class horse-hides reach the
tanners in Australia. (2) No. Chiefly for
boot leather and razor strops. (3) Most tan-
neries are ready purchasers.
My neighbor’s boxthorn hedge is encroach-
ing on my property. Can I force him to cut
it back to alignment? The roots are robbing
my land. Can I claim damages? Can I
{“>9 trencJl an<i la V poison in the bottom?
. 4'he duty rests on your neighbor to keep
his hedge, roots and overgrowth, within the
bounds of liis own property. If lie fails to
do so, and by reason of the roots extending
mto your property damage is done to it, he
is liable. You could cut the roots on your
side, but to use poison would be injudicious,
as the destruction could not, probably, be
confined to the trespassing roots, but might
extend to the life of the hedge itself.
A n acquaintance borrowed, money from me
two years ago on his spoken promise to pay.
lie wrote me acknowledging that he had not,
repaid and asking a further loan. (1) Can
I recover? (2) Does his acknowledgment
count in, law? —584.
Sue as for money had and received, and
tender in evidence the letter as an acknow-
ledgment by defendant of his indebtedness.
See the local C.P.S. You do not state amount
of loan.
(1) What qualifications are necessary for
a boy wishing to become a newspaper rc-
porter on leaving school? (2) How would
he set about getting the job? (3) What
wages would he receive, and what would be
the highest position he could attain and the
salary for that position? —622.
(1) A good, sound education, allied with
the ability to place thoughts and facts in-
telligently on paper, a knowledge of short-
hand and current events and people, with a
more than usual mental alertness and
.powers of observation. (2) Make applica-
tion to the chiefs of staff at the newspaper
offices. (3) Cadets receive under the A.J.A.
Metropolitan Dailies’ Award, £1 10s. per
week during Ist year. £2 15s. during 2nd,
£3 15s. for 3rd. Junior, general and senior
journalists receive respectively £0 12s. 6d.,
£9 ss. and £lO 12s. 6d. per week on morning
papers and £5 195., £8 12s. and £lO on even-
ing papers. After that rates are not gener-
ally specified. How high lie ends depends
upon himself. Probably the two or three
best-paid journalist jobs in Australia are
worth £2500 or £3OOO a year; but a man
must have organising and executive ability
to reach them.
I have paid £l6l to a life-insurance office
in the last six years and now find I cannot
continue payments. Though they have had
the use of my money, they now offer me
barely £lOO. Should I accept it? Or are
they rooks? —262.
Whether it is a fair refund or not depends
on the term for which the policy was taken,
among other things. You can’t expect to get
what you paid, assuming that it was a long-
term policy, because they have been cover-
ing you for the whole amount of your policy
during the six years. You haven’t died, but
other policy-holders have, _ though they
paid in for no longer. That is what mutual
insurance is for. If everybody was entitled
to draw out at any time what he had paid in,
how could the dependants of those who have
paid in only a couple of premiums get the
full amount of the policy?
Give me an opinion of the business of
V. R. Staples and Co., Ltd., Sydney. This
co. offers 10 p.c. p.a. for fixed deposits for
three years, and I wish to know if it is safe.
—635.'
The co. is in the land-subdivision business.
At June 30 last it owed £25,756, plus £32,506
lent to it on deposit and debenture. Its
assets were “Balances owing, cash in hand
and sundry debtors.” £66,506; freeholds,
£35,767 ; Government stock, £3047 ; and odds
and ends, £392. The big assets item can
only be safely regarded as all balances owing.
The directors claim that the freeholds are
greatly under-valued. In an undated circular
it is said: “That the value of the unsold
properties (£116,695) is not over-estimated
is practically proved by actual sales averag-
ing between £2OOO and £3OOO per month.”
The fact, however, that a sale can be made
to-day does not at all prove that another
can be made to-morrow. Much therefore
depends upon the terms on which the land
has been bought by the co. —land on which
it owes £28,756. The total amount owing
by the co. is £61,261. Against that is the
Government stock, £3047 ; that leaves £58,214
which the co. has undertaken to pay, and
for the payment of which it is dependent
on (1) uncalled capital (£10,000), (2)
the payment of balances by purchasers and
(3) the sale of unsold land. If an investor
thinks that a considerable number of buyers
may not keep up their payments or doubts
whether further sales can be made, he will
keep his money in his pocket. And it is
always possible that the directors may buy
on credit further large areas of land for
subdivision; so that it may be necessary
to back the management’s keenness as a
land-dealer.
What can J add to glue to prevent it set-
ting too quickly? Linseed oil and heating
the wood are no g00d. —627.
Maybe you are working with the wrong
kind of glue for the job. Or you are not
adding sufficient water to allow for evapora-
tion at each lieating-up. A little glycerine
might help.
(1) What is the process for marriage by
special license in N.S.W.? (2) By regis-
trar? (3) Address of registry office? (4)
Notice required, if any? (5) Number of wit-
nesses? (6) Total fees? —654.
The parties to a marriage which is cele-
brated by a district registrar must sign, before
the registrar of the district in which the
intended wife ordinarily resides, a declaration
that they conscientiously, object to be married
by a minister of religion or that there is no
minister available. Marriage by special
license does not obtain in N.S.W. It is usual
for one of the parties to interview the regis-
trar and fix an appointment. Fee: £1 ss.
Number of witnesses: Two (2). The Regis-
trar-General’s office is in Queen’s-square,
Sydney.
What is the selling-price of Id., 2d., 3d.,
4d. (blue) early Tasmanian stamps, unper-
forated, Queen’s head, good condition? —649.
Latest catalogue prices: (1) 10s., (2)
305., (3) 305., (4) 10s.
What is a perfectly-preserved coin, “Ten
Pence — Irish,” of the ’3o's worth? —64S.
Is. Od.
Information Supplied.
32. —Make up your own gun oil. Tht
British Navy formula is arctic oil 8 parts
acetone 6 parts, amylacetate 6 parts (the last
as a nitro solvent is without peer). For all
sporting weapons it can be modified thus:
A heavy-bodied cylinder oil (best obtainable)
15 parts, acetone 6 parts, amylacetate t
parts. To make, use a white glass bottle,
add the acetone to the oil, and shake vigor-
ously at intervals. There will probably be a
cloudiness, but it will clear up somewhat.
Next day add the amylacetate and shake
vigorously. If the mixture does not clear
instantaneously add more acetate. 3 drops at
a time, shaking each time until it clears. The
shooting man who makes up this mixture
will find he has a gun oil that is par excel-
lence. —Probo.
423.—1 n grandmother’s day they used
cocoanut oil for. dandruff and for improving
the hair generally. It produced magnificent
results —grandmother was right but the smell
was wrong. Nowadays the oil is completely
deodorised, and a faithfully made soap with
an 80 p.c. cocoanut-oil base gives the scalp
exactly what grandmother gave it. but with-
out any discomfort to the nose.—B.Sc.
Does Anybody Know ?
Author of the poem “Good Timber,” first
line of which is “The tree that never had *o
fight” ?—605.
Can anyone oblige with a method to render
the inside of a petrol- or kerosene-tin rust-
proof?—636.
Crows eat my oats, maize and wheat after
they are sown. What is the best thing to do
about it? —sSo.
How can 1 stop a galvaniscd-iron roof
from sweating? —2Bs.
For years I have been troubled with
stearins of English sparrows taking grass-
seed, pulling up young grain crops and de-
stroying maize cobs. Have tried grain
poisoned with strychnine, also with arsenic,
but they won't look at it. Can anyone put
me on to something that will give it to them
in the neck? —No. 215.
Brief Answers.
F.L.S.: See reply to 589 under “Informa-
tion Sought”... .A.C.’: Write Town Clerk, South
Perth, who will be able to give you a valuation.
Agents: Dudley and Dwyer, Ltd., Economic Chambers,
Perth; Walter Richardson, Commercial Bank
Chambers, Perth... .N.L.C.: American Trade Com-
missioner reports that his office does not know such
an agency... .Lysmoyle: Do you know the manage-
ment and are you prepared to back it? That’s the
whole problem. Well managed, there is money in
the business; ill managed, there is a total loss
J.R. (Q.) : E. J. Newton, 61 Market-street, Sydney
W. 8.: Consult a patent attorney, who will tell
you whether there is a patent already out. If not,
take a provisional patent lasting nine months; cost,
£5 ss. During that period approach a lamp-
manufacturing firm (such as Brandt Bros., Ltd., 263
Pitt-street, Sydney) or some of the big distributors of
motor-car lamps and ascertain commercial value of
the article D.Iv.R.: Same as to W. 8.; Nock and
Kirby, Ltd., would be a good firm to approach....
5.8. H.: Baker, McPherson and Co., Ltd., 29 Brown-
street, Camperdown, Sydney ; Claude Wood, Ltd., 81
William-street, Sydney.... W.E.M.: If you’re not
likely to want your money back for some years, it
probably is C.L.M.: (1) Not available. (2)
Freight of cement from Commonwealth Portland
works to Sydney is 17s. per ton; from Kandos,
£ 1 Os. 8d. —truck lots in each case, of course....
A.E.C.: Second-hand dealers say they couldn’t advise
until they saw condition, etc Florence W.: The
Dickens books are not rare; earlier editions bring
only about 15s. The Byron is worth little if only
one volume of a set. Irving’s “Tales of the Alham-
bra” will command a poor price in Australia....
M.M.: Not more than a shilling... .W.G.D.: Castle-
reagh-street wants to inspect it before making a
valuation. Why not take it there?... .M.J.N.: Can’t
trace Malayan Interests, Ltd., and doubt whether it
exists. It certainly has no connection witli Alluvial
Tin, Ltd 634: Two of them —Berrick Bros., Ltd.,
Japan merchants, 13 and 14 Camomile-street, London,
E.C.3. ; and W. Berrick and Sons, wholesale clothiers,
9 Great Preseott-street, London, E.C.I. . . .E.F.W.:
The N.S.W. Lotteries and Art Unions ‘Act 1991 (as
amended by Act No. 15 1922) forbids any newspaper
printing or publishing any advertisement, notice or
information relating to foreign lotteries (i.e., any
lottery conducted outside N.S.W.), whether legal in
the place where it is conducted or not... .E.G.C.:
See previous reply A.T.A.: Show it to either Lystei
Ormsby, 26 Hunter-street, Sydney, or J. H. Smvthe,
121 a Castlereagh-street, Sydney John L.: Dealers
won’t suggest a price till they see them. .. .H.D.:
Present retail value of “Pen Drawings of Norman
Lindsay,” a special number of Art in Australia.
is said to be about £5... .C.E.H.: See reply to 516
last week D.H.N.: They should be all right. But
metals are metals, even the best of them.. . .G.R.P.:
Very precarious. .. .D.O’N.: No, but Associated Trade
Journals Co., 17 Martin-place, Sydney, publishes a
weekly list of N.S.W. registrations; and there are
trade journals doing the same in the other States.
. ...A.E.D.: We are in communication with the
C.A.S.E. liquidators; but as unsecured creditors are
not going to be paid in full or anything like it
there is no hope for shareholders, pref. or ordinary.
C.J.M.: No R.P.D: No, Lithgow Small Arms
Factory has no business dealings with private buyers.
.... (Many other answers posted).


Your Health!
■
H
■
I
Guinness’s Stout
11
II
$m
A Us
The World Over
1759-1927
OBTAINABLE
EVERYWHERE
THE Combined Drill
Saves Labor. Saves Capital Outlay.
Pays for itself in the increased yield.
Jt
.
8 row with 17 tynes
12 row with 25 tynes
14 row with 29 tynes
16 row with 33 tynes
20 row with 41 tynes
24 row with 47 tynes
.. sft.
. . 7£ft.
. . Bift.
9jft.
.. 12ft.
.. 14ft.
The Progressive Farmer
uses the Combined Drill
Sunshine Quality is the Highest
Sunshine Prices are the Lowest
Ask for complete Price-list and Catalogues.
H. V. McKAY PTY., LTD.
Sunshine Harvester Works, Sunshine.
BRANCHES:
664 Bourke-street West, Melbourne.
102-105 North Terrace, Adelaide.
27-39 George Street West, Sydney.
Cr. Murray and King Streets, Perth.
Queensland Distributors: H. V. McKay (Queensland), Ltd., Stanley Street, South Brisbane.


V
A
LI AN
AU
MAD
For Home, Farm, Factory, Etc.
Billabong Pumps have given over 50 years satisfaction throughout the
Commonwealth. They are made in our Melbourne and our Sydney
works and embody scientific design and sound construction.
Billabong Pumps
Are low in price for pumps of their quality, and there is a Billabong
type for most pumping purposes. Full particulars of Billabong Pumps,
Pumping Machinery and Pump Accessories will be found in our General
. Pump Catalog.
IT IS POST FREE ON REQUEST.
JOHN DANKS & SON PTY. LTD.
WB
391-403 BOURKE ST. MELBOURNE
324-330 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
g'
1
,i si;! Esse
s?:.k:.ss?iis
(II KMttU
Certain-teed
Hexagon Asphalt Shingles
For Roofs and Gables.
Certain-teed Hexagon Asphalt Shingles are attractive, durable and
effective. They are easy to apply and they add greatly to the appear-
ance of any house. There is distinctiveness in a home where Certain-teed
Shingles cover gables and roof. They
Add Beauty to the Landscape
and keep all weathers out. Certain-teed shingles are made up in
half-square bundles. A square equals 10ft. x 10ft.
For the Warehouse, Factory and other Flat Roofs, Certain-teed Asphalt
Roll Roofing has proved its value. Certain-teed Roll Roofing covers the
roofs of prominent buildings throughout the Commonwealth. Estimates
Free.
JOHN DANKS fiSON PTY.LTD.
HNB
391-403 BOURKE ST. MELBOURNE
324-330 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
mm
iiHimm
'sun,,,
ayilim”!
s
/
Wll/tb
= mm*
=>
1
l
M
1
t= a
r
xS
Ncuj English Felts
35/- at Peapes’
Fine quality felt, absolutely reliable in colour,
smooth in finish. Medium Croum, inches
brim, tuith bound edge, 2 inches band.
Colours : Grey, Steel, Smoke.
PEAPES PAY POSTAGE
PLEASE STATE SIZE AND COLOUR.
PEAPES
George St. (opp. Hunter St.) SYDNEY
Keep Fit
with Sanatogen
"Nothing ever does me so much good
when I’m run-down as Sanatogen. It
has set me up, and kept me up, again
and again,” writes Dame Sarah Grand,
Mayoress of Bath.
Sanatogen acts in a sure and
quick way. It infuses into
the cells of body and nerves
exactly those elements
phosphorus and albumin—
from which new strength
is derived.
SANATOGEN
Obtainable at all Chemists from 3/9 per tin.
Made by GENATOSAN LIMITED, LOUGHBOROUGH, ENGLAND.


JENKIN SHOE STORES-
for men Who co v/y
Mens Plum ov*
Tan milou) ealf
two vamp Oxford
shoe, welted sole
6
Black Polishing Calf
29'6.
Post Free ~
249 PITT ST. Opp.Tattersalls Club
ħ
Welcome the Coming—Speed the Parting Guest with
RESCH’S
LAGER, DINNER ALE,
PILSENER & STOUT
AUSTRALIA’S BEST BITTER,
RESCH’S BITTER ALE,
ts
Ask for Them by Name—Keep in a Cool Spot.
Western Australian Distributors:
BURNS, PHILP & CO., LTD., PERTH AND GERALDTON.
SPORTING
NOTIONS
Under the Whip
Harry Mastcrton's Sir Dighton gelding
Nobility—a black, like so many of the Sir
Diglitons—came into the Grand National
argument with emphasis when he beat a
strong field in the Toolambool Hurdle. 2m.
65yds., at Caulfield on Saturday. Nearly
all the 18 starters had backing; T. M.
Burke’s Bombard was favorite at 5 to 1,
while Bernbanks was heavily supported at a
point longer, Woolpack, Pildin and Nobility
also having many friends at tens. Lady
Rooka (12 to 1) seemed likely to win when
she took charge about half a mile from home,
Deauville, Nobility, Woolpack, Pildin and
Bombard being nearest of the others; but
the mare faded out and Nobility ran to the
front. Jumping The last hurdle cleanly,
Masterton’s horse went on to win well by
half a length from Pildin, who finished reso-
lutely, Telarno (15 to 1) being the same
distance away third; Woolpack and the
ancient Roisel were next; Bombard, when
looking dangerous, lost his rider at the
second last hurdle. Mt. Elsa and Bernbanks,
both recent winners and National fancies,
fell early in the piece and were killed. Bob
Inkson rode Nobility, who carried 9st. 41b.
He has 21b. less at Flemington, and with
such a light weight he is sure to run well,
barring accidents. The time was 3min.
501 sec.
The Wanda Steeple. 2m. 3f., was another
race with a very open appearance, there
being 15 starters. ” Big money came for Deri-
sion, a gelding in Harry Connelly’s stable
who had shown promise in earlier races, and
he went out a solid favorite at 4 to 1. The
Williamstown winner, Ridara (8 to 1L fell
when leading at the fence near the three-
furlongs post, and Derision was left in front.
He was never afterwards headed. Foley,
riding very confidently, got him home three-
quarters of a length in front of the second
horse. Welcome Stranger (8 to 1) : Namera
(14 to 1), a good Flemington horse, <. nished
stoutly in third place, though five lengths
further back. The winner carried lOst.;
with a 71b. penalty he will have 9st. 131 b. in
the big Flemington steeple. He is young
for a jumper; still, four-year-olds have won
Nationals. The time was 4min. 38|sec.
Eric Connolly collected some tidy wagers
as a result of his colt Dark Man’s success
in the Two-Year-Old. Dark Man, who is by
Ethiopian—Cranbrook, went out at 9 to 2.
When Tookarby was scratched for the Rich-
mond Handicap. 11 furlongs, the public fol-
lowed the Holt lead, and backed Valwyne
down to 2 to 1. Sailing Home (12 to 1)
was two lengths clear at the home turn, but
as soon as the favorite ran up to him the
black squibbed it, and the mare beat him
home by four lengths, Mountain Prince (10
to 1) being a neck away. Followers of
Elwood Fisher’s stable also profited when
the slippery Hawick (6 to 1), whom Fisher
trains for A. S. Chirnside, won the Rosny
Plate brilliantly from Lady Thrill (7 to 2)
and Wedau (20 to 1). Hawick is a half-
brother to the Sydney horse Dion, but is not
so in-and-out.
* * * *
A change of jockeys was made in two cases at
Canterbury Park (N.S.W.) on Saturday, with
fortunate results to the parties concerned.
Bongula (Bronzetti —Gula), who had thrice
failed with another lad on top since he
came from the country, had Davidson’s ser-
vices in the Highweight Handicap, and in
a great finish with Boss Poppy (4 to 1)
and Suggrapho (3 to 1) the big chestnut,
who went out at 6 to 1, scored by a head.
If Davidson can be got again Bongula should
have another success or two before he goes
back to the bush, for he is a pretty good
plater and is built to carry weight. Pike
likewise made a considerable difference to
Cyron. the 7-to-2 favorite for the Canter-
bury Handicap, 11 furlongs, who had dis-
appointed when less artistically ridden. With
the Old Master in the saddle the little bay
shot to the front a couple of furlongs from
home and won by two or three lengths from
Laird o’ Cockpen (6 to 1), a Bowman geld-
ing who will improve; Automatical (10 to
1) beat the others. The sloppy track was
no doubt a factor in the downfall of a num-
ber of well-backed horses, particularly those
which were slow to leave the barrier. Under-
foot and overhead the conditions were so
dismal that everyone was relieved when the
meeting was over.
* * * *
Some fancies for Moorefield (N.S.W.) on
Saturday
Flying Welter, six furlongs (may be div-
ided) : Bongula. 1; Reference, 2; Indus, 3.
Kogarah Stakes, one mile: Koorathella,
1; Sweet Auburn, 2.
Moorefield Handicap, 10 furlongs: St.
Eaton, 1 ; Ilinchinbropk, 2.
Hurstville Mile: Fool’s Paradise, 1; On-
ward. 2.
* # * *
“The Gaffer” : I
see another book-
maker has been
robbed, while earn-
ing a humble crust
at Kenso., by some
heartless ruffian. Of
course, anyone who
fields at the Maca-
ronies ought to
know his clients,
but that doesn’t
excuse the strength
of some of the iat-
ter. In this case
the robbed bagman
paid out £5O on a
£4O-to-£lO wager.
Another chap came
along with the same
ticket a minute
later, and the brief
being the real thing,
the stung one had
to cough up another
couple o’ ponies.
The first man to
cash in had taken
£4 to £1 just after
the genuine £4O-to-
£lo punter, and
spotted the bet. A
little faking of the
brief and an early
hop-in brought liim
the wages of ini-
quity. There's been
a lot of this lately,
and I’m suggesting
the use of one of
those cash-registers
that stamp and
issue tickets as the
amount is punched
on them. They
wouldn’t be heavier
than the average
bookie’s bag at the
end of the day, and
most of the boys sport figures naturally
adapted to supporting ’em in front. They’d
be a handicap if a chap had to run instead
of paying out; but one could get a decent
start by leaving it behind for the mugs to
kick to pieces, and if it was a time-payment
one, like most of ’em, so much the better.
* * * *
“Comedy King” : The ostensible proprietors
of yet another elaborate starting-price joint
appeared in a Sydney police-court this
week, and, having paid the customary farcical
fine, went off, possibly to look for new pre-
mises. The usual story was told by raiding
authority. There were five telephones and
an expensive wireless set, and records for
the morning showed 478 bets, the amounts
ranging from 2s. to £35. One ugly feature, of
the show is the evidence that "nod ’ betting
is gaining ground in the s.p. shops. Save to
“big” customers, these have been usually cash
concerns, but the presence of 2s. wagers on
the sheets impounded indicates that the office-
boy element is being encouraged to “open a
racing account.” Worse still, because of its
blatant recurrence in every similar case, is
the number of telephones available for con-
ductors of a business that is an offence against
against both Federal and State laws. During
recent years thousands of ordinary citizens
have had to wait months for telephone con-
nections —things are admittedly not so bad
in this respect as they were —yet every
notorious s.-p. den raided while the famine
was on had numbers to spare. The depart-
ment requires a private subscriber or firip
to state his or its business on the applica-
tion form. How is that of the s.-p. shark
camouflaged? Not only should the Federal
authority make stricter inquiry, but it
should, on conviction for illegal betting (and
that, of course, implies illegal tax-dodging),
debar those convicted from being allotted a
telephone for a term of years, at least. And
that should hold good in the matter of wire-
less licenses also.
* * * *
In Brisbane last June Piastoon won the
St. Leger and the Brisbane Cup and was
second in the Moreton Handicap to In Petto.
This June Coin Nut, who is by Piastre —
Nut Brown (Piastoon is by Piastre —Zara-
toon), won the King’s Plate and the
Royal Stakes, both at w.f.a., was second in
the Brisbane Cup and first in the Albion
Cup. The last-mentioned performance,
achieved on Saturday, was highly creditable,
for the black horse, who was ridden by Gor-
man, carried lOst. 21b., conceding 3st. 41b.
to Happy Valley, the second horse, and Ist.
91b. to Lyondown, who shaped pretty well, in
Sydney just before Easter; and the going
was by no means good, as witness the fact
that it took them 2min. 14sec. to traverse
10 furlongs. Coin Nut was equal favorite
with The Cooper at 4 to 1. There is pro-
bably little difference between him and Pia-
stoon, and he will attract no little attention
when he comes to Sydney.
Footbrawl
A high wind handicapped players and
spectators at Saturday’s games in Mel-
BACKING HIM.
THE OPTIMIST: “Well, we’ve backed him in six-furlong races,
mile races, mile and a quarter and a mile and a half.
What’ll we back him in next?’
THE PESSIMIST: “We'll back him—the blighter—in a dray.”
bourne; nevertheless, a bright and skilful
set-to was staged by South Melbourne and
Fitzroy. The Maroons were quicker and
more systematic, and finally downed South
by 95 points to 80, Jack Moriarty getting
seven goals. Collingwood found it hard to
get the hang of the situation and the breeze
out on Footscray’s wind-swept ground, but.
despite villainous kicking, managed to tot
up 58 points to ’Scray’s 36. Geelong, on
its own ground, galloped over Hawthorn with
155 points to 56, in a game that was more
forceful than clever. North Melbourne, which
began the season brilliantly, has degenerated
since; it went down wallop before Carlton’s
onslaught, scoring but 35 points to the Old
Blues’ 69. Melbourne defeated St. Kilda
just as easily, boasting 105 points to the
Saints’ 55; the game was disorderly in spots,
and two players were reported. A mob of
about 28,000 packed Richmond ground in
the expectation that Essendon would make
a special effort to break its long run of
defeats —seven consecutive games now—but
the ’Dons simply weren’t in it with the
Tigers, who were faster, cleverer and more
systematic. Richmond notched 102 points;
’Don, 79. ’Don and Hawthorn .are now
definitely out of the hunt and five of the
other ten teams have little better than Buck-
ley’s chance.
During the week the heads of the Metro-
politan Association (junior) reached for
their official waddy and brought it dow T n
weightily on the head of a Pascoe Vale
’bailer, who was passed out for three years
for jobbing an umpire; another, who dis-
puted the same unfortunate’s decision, was
suspended till next season; a third, who
merely argued with him, was put out for
three weeks. Also a boundary umpire, who
bogged into the discussion needlessly, found
his services dispensed with for all time. Fur-
ther, the club’s officials were notified that
if they couldn’t control players and bar-
rackers better they would be pushed out ’of
the association altogether. After that, the
officials disqualified till next season a player
of another team who had punched an oppon-
ent, though they thoughtfully proffered him
their sympathy for having his jaw broken
by a “supporter” in the melee that ensued.
The only matter for regret is that nobody
could —or would —identify the “supporter.”
* * * *
The first series of the N.S.W. Rugby
League competition ended on Saturday with
a ding-dong battle in the mud at Sydney
Cricket Ground between the premiers, South
Sydney, and St. George. South, with two
men short at the finish, won in the teeth
of the odds by 17 to 13. It was anticipated
that the fast and heavy St. George forwards
would set out to cramp South’s back division,
and, helped by the wet ground and the heavy
ball, they had some success. Nevertheless
South closed the first half with 13 points
to 5, and a forward sent off. Another fol-
lowed him in the second half, and the Sain Is
pounded hard at the weakened opposition,
now playing only three forwards. South
stood up to them manfully, and thanks to
two penalty goals with the sodden ball--
Quinliven was responsible—saved its bacon.
The game was worth watching by the 30,000
enthusiasts who attended in spite of the
beastly weather. Blair’s tactics and grip
of his men did South good service in the
dangerous second half. About the most use-
ful man on St. Geoi’ge's side, outside the
forwards, was scrum-half Benson, another
veteran, once of the Glebe and State sides.
North Sydney nicked its first win this' sea-
son by one point from Glebe —13 to 12;
Newtown outed University by 15 to 10, the
inter-State centre, O’Rourke, playing a great
game for the losers; and Eastern Suburbs
headed West by 10 to 8.
The N.S.W. team to meet Queensland on
Saturday contains few surprises, though the
inclusion of veterans V. Lawrence and Blair,
at centre and five-eighth, caused some heart-
burnings among the young division. Queens-
land is sending down a very hot side, includ-
ing two forwards and a three-quarter from
Townsville, the first from that N.Q. port to
find their way into a Queensland team.
“Stand Off”: The pull which a crack
player exercises in gate-money games -was
evidenced when the N.S.W. Rugby League
Council considered the case of Lapliam,
South Sydney’s star forward, w T ho was sent
off the field last Saturday for striking an
opponent. Though the exceptionally success-
ful try-getter was under suspension the
selection committee chose him on Saturday
night to represent N. S. IV. This cool antici-
pation of the verdict in a case sub judice
roused the wrath of the saner element of
the League Council, and it managed to carry
a motion for the player’s suspension for two
playing Saturdays, which cuts the offender
out of all the lucrative inter-State games.
But the victory for discipline was a narrow
one—l 3 votes to 12.
“Ross Island”: The tour of the North
Queensland football team, first of its kind
to visit Southern Queensland, was marred
by one of those little tiffs which seem to
be inseparable from gate-money football. The
northerners were to have played a final game
against the Brisbane League, but eventually
declined. The reason alleged by the Queens-
land League, which loves the Brisbane
League about as much as the Brisbane
League loves it—there are about six town
and country Leagues of consequence up
there, and they only agree when it comes
to the prospect of an inter-State gate—is that
the Brisbancites demanded such a cut of the
proceeds that the northerners decided their
share wouldn’t buy the necessary field dress-
ings after the game was over, and went
home. Brisbane heatedly denies that it tried
for a big bite, but its critics assert that
it asked much more than its hated rivals
of Ipswich and Toowoomba. The storm
of mutual recrimination was still ringing
when the northerners had trekked home-
wards.
* * * *
The Rugby Union games provided some
surprises; Manly’s forwards, playing on their
(Continued on page J/l.)
SPOOFED.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“A greyhound which had been coursing electrical
hares went mad in Annandale (Sydney), and stam-
peded the inmates of a Chinese laundry and a
bank before it was lassooed by the police. The animal
then collapsed and died.”
For centuries his dams and sires
Had chased poor Wat o’er dale and lea ;
The furry makebelieve on wires
Unhinged his canine sanity.
He couldn’t readjust, you see,
His views to this mechanic fad,
And having not the problem’s key
He went incontinently mad.
With flying feet and nimble gyres
He and his panting vis-d-vis
For days and days had chased the fliers
And never, never reaped the fee
Of gameness and velocity
When steel jaws close in gusto glad
Upon a gamey refugee.
What wonder that the dog went mad?
His heart consumed by gnawing fires,
Ilis doggy brain, I’ll guarantee,
A whirl with unfulfilled desires,
lie came a gutser mentally.
What rhyme or reason could there be
Chasing a thing he never had
.V Chance to seize voraciously?
And so the cheated hound went mad.
Envoy.
S.P.C.A. galoots, and ye ,
Who’ve saved the hares from torture sad,
What of the cruel agony
That sends the diddled greyhound mad?
N.S.W.
IFORD.


Choosing your motor-cycle
HO you want a motor-cycle for solo riding, a
■ touring combination for one or two passengers,
or a sports machine capable of road speeds of 60-70
miles per hour ? Perhaps you prefer a lightweight,
easy to handle and economical in upkeep, or possibly
the extra power that a 6 or 8 h.p. machine will give
appeals to you. Maybe you require a commercial
carrier for your business.
Do you want your machine for town riding, amongst
heavy traffic, where good brakes, quick acceleration
and ease of control are essential—or do you have
to ride over rough, country roads where sturdy
construction and first-class springing are vital ?
Whichever machine you want, you will find it in
the comprehensive B.S.A. range of 14 models in 6
engine capacities, from 2.49 h.p. to 9.86 h.p., includ-
ing four special sports models. All B.S.A. Motor
Bicycles have front and rear internal expanding hub
brakes, shock absorbers, mechanical lubrication to
engine and front chain, grease gun lubrication, etc.
B.S.A. service and B.S.A. reliability are world recog-
nised facts—that is why B.S.A. Motor Bicycles have
such a world-wide popularity. Choose your mount
from the B.S.A. range.
B.S.A. 2.49-h.p. de Luxe Model
3-Speed, k.s., shock absorbers,
Terry lightweight spring seat or
Brooks Supple Seat Saddle, etc.
B.S.A. 4.93-h.p. O.H.V. Model.
Inclined engine, duplex loop
frame, B.S.A. steering damper
and shock absorbers, Leckie
Super Sports or Terry Spring
Seat Saddle, etc.
B.S.A. 9.86-h.p. Colonial Model.
Exceptionally strong frame, Sc-
inch ground clearance, B.S.A.
steering damper and shock
absorbers, etc.
Lead the way
on a BSA
PRICES FROM £57/10/-
Send for catalogue and particulars of Easy Payment Terms
AUSTRALIAN DISTRIBUTING AGENTS:
N.S.W. V
Q’LAND]
BENNETT & WOOD , LTD.,
284 Pitt Street, Sydney.
VICTORIA- F//VL/I Y BROS. MOTOR CYCLES
PTY. f LTD.,
322 Elizabeth Street, Melbourne.
SOUTH AUS.-J. /V. TAYLOR & CO,, LTD.,
121 Grenfell Street, Adelaide „
WEST A US.-mortlock bros., ltd.,
890 Hay Street, Perth.
TASM ANIA - s/m king pty., ltd.,
63 Brisbane Street, Launceston.
B.S.A. Sub-Agents Throughout Australia.
D. Y. RENNIE ( Factory Representative), 49 ELIZABETH STREET, MELBOURNE.


NEW IMPROVED TORCH,
200-YARD BEAM.
Winchester Focussing Torch.
Everyone who has a Winchester Torch recog-
nises' a Winchester Torch is a necessity, not n
luxury. This new model is a wonderful torch.
Easily focussed to throw a narrow beam of light
a distance of 600 ft. or, if required, to show a
broad light at a distance of a few feet only.
Nickel ease, Biin. lens, 9in. in length. Complete
with 3-cell Winchester patent drawn seamless
cell Battery, 21 / -
SPARE BATTERIES, 2/6 each. SPARE
GLOBES, 1/3 each. Postage Torches complete
Batteries. Other models of Focussing Torches
from 15/- to 18/6. Standard non-focussing
types, 7/6 to 17/6. Direct Factory Distributors :
Gun and Cartridge Makers,
318 LITTLE COLLINS STREET. MELBOURNE
A GUN BUILT FOR AUSTRALIAN CONDITIONS
by WEBLEY & SCOTT, the makers of the world-famous British Service Revolver; of the same
excellent materials and high standard of workmanship ; and balance and finish superior to many
guns of double the price.
30in. barrels of Special Steel; bored full choke in both or full and modified: Anson & Declcy
action, Greener cross-bolt, automatic safety, and the high engine-turned rib so desirable for
close sighting. The half-pistol grip stock is composed of straight-grained English walnut, finely
chequered, and the modest hand engraving on the action parts is in keeping with the
symmetrical appearance of the gun.
COWLES & DUNN, Gunmakers, 453 Kent Street, Sydney.
’Phone: M33SB. Write for Catalogue “B.”
Exchange must he added to country cheques.
£2l
Post
Free
own ground, rubbed University in the mud
by 6 to s—two5 —two tries to a try and a goal.
Uni. had several of its best backs missing,
but it was mostly a forward battle, witn
the Villagers on top. Then a strong Glebe-
Balmain team was squelched by Y.M.C.A.,
of all teams, that usually dry-weather lot
beating the big fellows 24-3. Eastern Sub-
urbs won, 12-9, from West, and North
Sydney capped the day’s reversals of form
by downing Randwick, 12-6.
* * * *
The second Soccer Test against the Czechs
at Brisbane drew another big crowd, and
resulted in a draw, five goals each. The
Czechs were leading by a goal in the last
couple of minutes, Kyle, the Queensland
winger, equalising on time. Having won the
first match, the Czechs cannot lose, at least.
China beat an Australian side in Adelaide
by three goals to nil. The chief shock in
the Sydney metropolitan competition was
the 6-0 defeat of the leaders, Balgownie, by
Pyrmont-S. Sydney.
M.Q. (and Rafferty) Rules
Two Australians provided the big item at
the Sydney Stadium on Saturday night, so
naturally the attendance was poor; it is
doubtful if the fighters got £5O apiece. George
Thompson, sometime of Westralia, scaled
12st. 71b., and looked as if he could have shed
the 71b. to advantage; Wally Walker, of
Sydney, went 12st. 61b. Walker is a fine
type of young Cornstalk, but he has one big
handicap—lack of confidence in himself. He
was fighting a more experienced man for what
the management was pleased to call the
heavyweight title, and he seemed to think
that it was a foregone conclusion that he would
get licked —and he did. Thompson tried for
a knock-out from the first bell. Walker, how-
ever, showed good defence and a plucky dis-
regard of what looked like heavy wallops to
the head; moreover, he made Thompson miss
egregiously, while his snappy punches raised
lumps ai’ound George’s eyes and on his fore-
head. But when he found he could not
“get” the man from Jarrahland, Walker
dropped his tail. He was badly thumped in
the sixth round, and took delivery of several
good punches in the next. Then a right on
the point banged him through the south
ropes, where he silenced a Sunday paper
telephone by knocking its gadget off with
the back of his head. As he lay full length
on the running-board Walker was counted
out. When lugged inside he retained his
recumbent position for several minutes.
* * * *
From California comes the news that Billy
Grime, 9st., gained an unquestionable decision
over Pico Ramies, described as champion
featherweight of Mexico, in a 10-rounder at
Los Angeles. The Mexican, a tough left-
handed, boxer, had 31b. the better of the weights,
but the Australian was much more skilful,
and early had him cut and bleeding. Find-
ing himself a mile behind on points, Ramies
flung science to the winds, and his fierce
attack is stated to have won the 7th round
and also the Bth and 9th. But maybe Grime
loafed, carrying his man along, as we have
so often seen the brilliant lad do here. Any-
how, he took no chances in the 10th, giving
Ramies a hiding and a boxing lesson. Match-
makers are now chasing Billy with offers,
and he seems to have a decent chance of
becoming the next world’s champion in his
class.
* * * *
In a bout at Melbourne on Monday night
under the auspices of the National Sporting
Union, which is renewing its argument with
Stadiums, Ltd., Tommy Fairhall and Charlie
Purdy, both 9st. 811 b., Charlestoned their
way to a colorless draw. The most interest-
ing personality in the ring was third-man
.Toe Stokesbury. Joe spoke to the principals
as he would to a couple of recalcitrant chil-
dren, and frequently urged them in homely
fashion to cut out the ’uggin’. The blonde
Maorilander must have learnt boxing from
a dancing-master. He is a pretty mover and
claimer, but overdoes this branch of the
business. Fairhall fought Bill Grime to a
draw, and Purdy was reported to have run
the champion to a disputed decision. Bill
must have been having a little game on
each of these occasions.
* x- * *
“Skeeter ”: “Lofty” Franklin (B.
9/6/’27) was not the first headmaster to
encourage boxing at Melbourne Grammar
School. In 1911, when “Gussie” Blanch was
the head, Fred Porter was there as boxing
and wrestling instructor, and a tournament
was held with 6oz. gloves. I know, because
I was soundly thrashed in the final of the
“mosquito”-weight division.
“Kelby”: Melbourne Grammar must have
been different in its attitude to boxing from
its Sydney namesake. In the old College-
street place there is (or was in my day) a
disused asphalt tennis-court. Anyone who
wanted to have a bit of anybody else was sup-
posed to mention the matter to a prefect;
if that worthy thought the case had gone
beyond the narrow confines of arbitration he
gave permission for a mill, the time of which
was fixed then and there. The field of
battle was always the tennis-court, and the
prefect concerned was officially chosen as
referee. Excited cries of “mill on” was the
signal for an enthusiastic concourse of 500
at least to rush madly down to the school
stadium and separate into partisan
groups. The prefect always insisted on the
warriors shaking hands at the end of a
stated number of rounds, after which he
speeded them on their way with sound
advice and a pedal impulse a derri&re, as the
French say.
* * * *
Yank met Yank at Melbourne Stadium on
Saturday night, and for the first time this
season the referee had to give a points deci-
sion. It went to Ted Thye (12st. 101 b.),
who was assuredly faster and cleverer than
Mike Yokel (12st. 121 b.). whom a dozen
youngsters in Wyoming call “daddy.” The
bout lacked the thrills of previous weeks,
and spectators who had hooted Canadian
Bill Edwards for rough tactics clamored in
vain for their feelings to be harrowed again.
Ted worked his wristlocks as only he can,
but the old ’un bore them philosophically
and gained points in turn with a punishing
brand of headlock. A wristlock was the
means of securing first fall for Thye in the
fourth round. Mike caught his man with a
toehold two rounds later, but Ted countered
by grabbing one of Yokel’s “plates of
meat.” Mike worked desperately in the
eighth and caused a lot of customers to miss
their trains by scoring a last-minute fall
with a body press. The referee ordered
another round, which was even, and then
commanded them to toe the mark again.
This time Ted put the matter beyond doubt
by holding the tiring Mike in a short-arm
scissors for more than five minutes.
Racquet and Bawl
“Togo Smashumai”: The opening round
of the men’s singles at Wimbledon furnished
a surprise in the defeat of the Japanese
crack, Harada, ranked as one of the “world’s
best ten” last year. He went under, after
a five-set struggle, to the Frenchman, Lan-
dry, who is barely in France’s first half-
dozen. The Wimbledon people made a new
departure in connection with the draw. In
addition to “seeding” players by nations, so
that the closing games will take on an inter-
national character, a special committee
ranked eight selected players in each of the
singles, and four pairs in the doubles. Harada
was among the eight men selected.
“Renshaw-Doherty”: Showman Cochran’s
presentation of Suzanne Lenglen in opposi-
tion to Wimbledon was billed to take place
at a club near Henley. Dora Ivoering, ex-
champion of Germany, is to tackle Suzanne,
while the Czecho-Slav, Kozeluh, and Howard
Kinsey, of America, are the male members
DOING IT IN STYLE.
NEW MEMBER: “Where’s the dressing-room?”
CAPTAIN: “Oh, we gen’rally change at the ’Otel Australiah and motah to the ground.”
of the string to date. Cochran may find
that Suzanne will pull very little from the
attendances at Wimbledon, this year s
entries being exceptionally high-class. He
will, however, take his circus to Manchester,
where he expects a gate of 75,000, and Glas-
gow, where he hopes for 120,000. At Man-
chester Suzanne will have to compete against
a stiff counter-attraction in the mechanical
hare. Glasgow attendances will depend on
admission prices. If these are on the. pro-
posed English scale, with ss. the minimum
for the outer, the sturdy Glaswegian will be
conspicuous by his absence.
* * * *
“Reverse Service”: The Vic. Lawn Tennis
Association has gone one better than its
hesitant N.S.W. rival by attempting to give
a rigid definition of what constitutes an
amateur. It might have been a little longer
and more explicit, but brevity is always com-
mendable. Here it is: “A lawn-tennis player
is an amateur if he does not procure any
pecuniary advantage from the playing or
pursuit of the game.” Now, does the dealing
in tennis gear, which is the almost invari-
able rule among Australian champion ama-
teurs, constitute “pursuit”?
Ms * *
“Cut Short”: There are encouraging signs
that Australia will be able to make a brave
showing in the next Davis Cup series. Jack
Crawford has done great things, though still
a minor, and his pre-eminence is now threat-
ened by Harry Hopman, liis steady pal.
Plaving in the "Western Plains tournament
at Warren (N.S.W.), young Hopman fought
liis way successfully through all the open
events.' When one considers that he de-
feated Gerald Patterson in the semi-final
of the singles, and followed that up by
beating Schlesinger, another Davis Cup man,
in the final, it is evident that the young
Cornstalk has the big-match temperamenr
which counts for almost as much as tran-
scendent tennis ability. This was particu-
larly noticeable in the hard-fought _games
against Schlesinger, which went 7-5, 7-9,
6l?>. With Schlesinger. Hopman won the
men’s doubles from Patterson and Jim Wil-
lard. 6-4. 6-2, and he and Miss Meaney took
the mixed doubles as well, their opponents
being .1. Willard and Miss Cox.
Bully Off
The sturdy, short-kilted English lasses,
whose visit has revived interest in hockey,
had suffered a defeat at the sticks of a local
team during the week, so there was much
shrill feminine optimism amongst the 3000
who assembled at the Albert Ground in Mel-
bourne on Saturday to see them meet an
Australian eleven. The tourists, however,
ran over the home bevy; in the first half
they scored five goals to nil, largely
because of the Australian backs' and half-
backs’ habit of clustering together for warmth
or mutual encouragement or something. Also
the English feet seemed swifter and the
passing was automatic. In the second por-
tion the play was less uneven, but at the
end the English damsels were 8 to 2. A
feature of the exhibition was the fine con-
dition of the players. Time was when the
hockey girl looked hoydenish in action and
flushed and dishevelled at the finish. On
Saturday the 22 looked as graceful as so
many Bianas hunting, and as fresh after-
wards as if they had spent the afternoon
at the. pictures.
“Nakhoda”: Twenty years ago there was
a vague aroma of impropriety about the idea
of a woman playing hockey. At any rate,
a Perth weekly which specialised in
divorce-court stuff and the like thought it
worth while to send a reporter to the
Cricket Ground to write up a female hockey
match, the game being in those days the ex-
clusive pastime of the Six Families and
their retinue; and a ; spendid front-page
feature he made of it. He described deli-
cately nurtured girls—one of them is now a
sometime lady mayoress with a handle to her
name—throwing themselves on the ground
and kicking up their legs, while the young
males of the ruling class stood around the
boundary filling the air with their lasci-
vious laughter. The story created a major
sensation, and the editor narrowly escaped
a flogging at the hands of the indignant
young males aforesaid. It was even proposed
to play future matches in camera, and the
Governor’s daughter was prohibited from
taking part at all. And in those days hockey
was intensely ladylike. The players wore
such long skirts that, by bending their knees,
they could stop the hardest drive without
injury to their ankles. Time is a great healer.
To-day the scantily but more rationally
dressed maidens would be beneath the notice
of that weekly, even in its direst need.
The Nineteenth Hole
Erie Apperly, of Manly, is the Ma State's
amateur golf champion for the fourth time;
in the final at Rose Bay on Saturday he
defeated W. R. Smith, of the Long Reef club,
by 4 up and 3 to play. Since the pick of
Maoriland, Victoria and Queensland was
represented, the appearance of two Ma
Staters in the concluding tussle was credit-
able to N.S.W. golf. The morning round
showed Apperly 2 up, but Smith won the
first two holes in the afternoon, to square.
From then on, Apperley took the lead, finishing
a winner on the 15th green, when a halved hole
settled the question. The Manly player’s iron
shots and his capacity for getting well out
of trouble were features of his game. Smith
was over-anxious in the afternoon, and a ten-
dency to press possibly cost him the match.
His defeat of Alec Russell in the semi-final
was a great feat for a young hand —he is
only 24. Apperly had two hard nuts to crack
in Duncan and Ivo Whitton.
“Piriti”: Why is it that a man who can
step up to a golf ball with easy confidence
and bash it 250yds. takes the best part of a
couple of minutes to consider a putt of a
few feet? Neither Apperly nor Smith wastes
time setting himself for a real hit, but at
putting both are ridiculously slow. Apperly
approaches the ball with an air of painful
concentration, freezes himself into a tense
arc, and then frequently gives a futile poke
at a putt that he would probably knock in
with the back of the club if it were a practice
game. Smith examines every inch of the
ground between the ball and the hole,
crouches behind the pill for agonised seconds,
and takes a few practice swings before hitting
it. Like thousands of other players, they
over-concentrate. When it comes to hitting
the ball, they hardly know what they are
doing.
* * * *•
Caring for golf-clubs (B.
26/o/’27) is a simple matter. All you re-
quire is a bottle of neatsfoot oil and a scrap
of flannel. Warm the clubs and oil by put-
ting them out in the sun or standing them
close to a fire, and then apply the warm oil
to the clubs by means of the flannel, going
over the leather grips and iron heads also.
Give at least three coats, allowing the oil
to soak well in, and then put them away.
The leather grips will need no further oiling,
but the shafts and iron heads will require
an occasional rub-over with the oily flannel,
and the heads of the wooden clubs should
be cleaned, dried and well oiled whenever
they have been used. The result will be
wooden heads that will not crack or come
unglued, iron heads that won't rust, and
springy shafts that seem to defy you to
break them.
* * * *
“Scruff”: Paris has been making a fuss
about a golf “innovation” —a short course on
the roof of one of its big department stores,
where “tired business men” can enjoy recrea-
tion near their offices or receive the benefit of
instruction from a professional. The idea has
been in vogue in Sydney for some time, coach
and all; and when the craze for the game
first bit deep into Sydney life several firms
arranged demonstrations and lectures b.v
experts. The old brigade who learned their
golf by being turned loose on the links with
a cleek and a secondhand ball may scoff at
these elaborate instructional methods, but 75
per cent, of American golfers learn the rudi-
ments of the game in this way. And there’s
nothing wrong with the standard of play in
that country. 1 _
* * * *
“Excalibur”: Harry Vardon admits that
he always carries a couple of “mongrel”
clubs, having found them so useful for cer-
tain types of shot that he cannot bear to
give them up for more orthodox weapons.
Thjese beloved, if unfashionable, tools are not
rare in golfing bits. One the writer of
was a heavy, old-fashioned _ cleek which
parted from its stick on a flint-hard W.Q.
course. The owner split the middle section
out of a hickory pick-handle and fitted the
steel head. The stick, though not shaved
nearly as thin as the original haft, had a
tremendous driving capacity, and was un-
breakable; the owner was confident of
its ability to go through a sod-bank if neces-
sary. In the rough its scrub-cutting powers
were a boon, and it is as trustworthy to-day
as ever, though the pick-handle shaft is well
on to 30 years old as part of a golf club.
* * * *
“D —rat It” : The millennium must be heav-
ing in sight before its scheduled time —at
Barnsley, in Yorkshire, anyway, though no
one who has seen that delectable manufactur-
ing town would have suspected it. A non-
swearers’ golf club has been formed at
Barnsley. And the organiser is secretary of
the Yorkshire miners’ association, a body
whose members are not celebrated for
mincing their words. The founder admits
that his idea is “revolutionary,” but hopes to
prove that “profanity is not a good golfer s
handmaiden.” Many of us who have been
much exposed to golfers of the baser sort
good golfers are outside the argument, since
they are akin to the seraphim—will have
formed the opinion that with them golf is
the maid-of-all-work to sulphurous eloquence.
The writer will take fl to 4 that the member-
ship list will be a blank at the end of three
months.
(Continued on page 42.)


The “WILD CAT” MONTHLY for June
NOW ON SALE, PRICE 2/-
CONTAINS REVIEWS OF
AERATED BREAD CO.. LTD.
ANTHONY HORDERN & SONS
ARTHUR RICKARD & CO.
EXTENDED, LTD.
BAGOT’S EXECUTOR AND
TRUSTEE CO., LTD.
THE BANK OF ADELAIDE
THE BANK OF AUSTRALASIA.
BANKERS & TRADERS INSUR-
ANCE CO., LTD.
BON MARCHE, LTD.
BURNS, PHILB & CO.. LTD.
CHARLES BIRRS & CO.. LTD.
THE COLONIAL SUGAR REFIN-
ING CO., LTD.
DENTAL & MEDICAL SUPPLY
CO., LTD.
DOMARA RIVER PLANTATIONS
DUDLEY & DWYER. LTD.
THE ENGLISH ELECTRIC CO.
OF AUSTRALIA, LTD.
EQUITABLE BUILDING SOCIETY
FINNEY, ISLES & CO.. LTD.
GIBSON & lIOWES. I TIL
LUKE MTJRAS, LTD.
MOTOR FINANCE, LTD.
THE NEW ZEALAND FARMERS’
FERTILIZER CO.. LTD.
THE NORTHCOTE BRICK CO.
PROVIDENT LIFE ASSURANCE
CO., LTD.
TOWNSVILLE GAS AND COKE
CO., LTD.
WASHINGTON 11. SOUL. PATTIN-
SON & CO., LTD.
WEST’S, LTD.
THE WICKHAM & BULLOCK
ISLAND COAL CO., LTD.
YOTJN GHU SB AND, LTD.
Latest Share Market Prices and Returns to Investors. Tin Mining Reports.
NO INVESTOR, BIG OR LITTLE, CAN AFFORD TO MISS THIS ISSUE
“Fore”: Touching examples of injuries
while playing golf (B. 2/6/’27), it is worth
while noting that American accident insur-
anee cos. rank the royal and vituperative
game as the third most hazardous in exist-
ence. One would place Sydney Rugby League
football, Melbourne wrestling and judging at
a baby show ahead of golf, but actuaries
cannot tell lies, especially American ones.
It is stated that few of the accidents are
due to “direct hits,” as the naval gunnery
experts have it, with ball or club, but to
“slips and falls on the links.” The nine-
teenth hole has long been banished from
American golf by Mr. Volstead. The neces-
sary inspiration is, one understands,
absorbed on the links from a pocket-flask,
preferably in a convenient bunker. With
the far-flung reputation of American “hooch”
in mind, it is not easy to avoid the sus-
picion that the insurance companies, in blam-
ing golf, have got the wrong cow by the
tail.
•I’ ❖ * jjj
"Divat” : At the present rate of increase,
the. terrestrial globe will one day consist
entirely of golf courses. In England they
are already overlapping so much that a
large portion of Windsor Great'Forest, once
the zealously-guarded hunting preserves of
the Plantagenet kings, has been handed over
to the multitude for conversion into two
links. There is some talk of laying out a
residential area also, but the links, of course,
are the crux of the scheme. The forest is
the immemorial haunt of Herne the Hunter,
so there should be no difficulty in establishing
a bogey.
* * * *
“Joe’s Coat”; The brightest feature for
Australian golfers in the gloom of our defeat
by the Maorilanders in the Kirk- Wiudeyer
Cup contest was the magnificent apparel of
F. E. Headlam, the Victorian. Nothing quite
so dazzling as his chequered “pull-over”
and stockings has been seen in Sydney since
the Totem ballet in “Rose Marie.” Brilliant
ERIC R APPERLY, winner of tin' N.S.W.
amateur golf championship from the
strongest field, that has ever played
for it. He icon the same event in
1912, 1920 and 1922, and took the Aus-
tralian amateur title in 1920.
as was his form in defeating Dr. Ross in
the singles, the young Victorian’s vesture
outshone, it. It being winter, there were no
lilies of the field in evidence; if there had
been they would have had their colors low-
ered, as the doctor’s were.
Car and Cycle
“Geebung” : Some day a Westralian motor-
cyclist may win the Senior Tourist Trophy
race, held annually on the Isle of Man. Roy
('barman was to have been a competitor last
year on the unconventionally-designed Wal-
lis. He had some preliminary successes in
trial and open competitions, but a fractured
wrist put him out of the running. “Lon”
Stewart, who is still in his teens, piloted a
Norton in last week’s event, and is recorded
to -have done “a fine first lap” (there are
seven) at the rate of 65 m.p.h., but he
crashed in the second lap, though only the
machine was damaged. A. Bennett, the
winner, completed the 264 m. 300yds. on his
Norton in 3hr. 51 min. 42see., a record for the
race.
* * * X
“Musso”: Italy holds an annual motor
road-race known as the Targo Elorio —the
Elorio Shield. Start and finish are at sea-
leyel, and the course is laid to run over a
minimum height of 3000 feet; distance is a
little short of 350 miles. First, second and
third places were filled by Italian bars. So
were all the others, since none but Italian
cars competed. The Bugatti, well known in
; Australia, scored heavily.
* :!: * *
“Chevroford”: Melbourne’s new parking
; regulations have produced a fresh kind of
parasite—the unemployed gent, who buys a
peaked cap and poses as a parking-area
attendant. The green motorist is often in-
duced to hand out his bob even when the
spot in which lie has deposited his car is
one in which it is illegal to leave a ’bus
more than a few minutes. An owner of
my acquaintance totted up one day’s exac-
tions and found they came to six shillings.
There is always the uneasy suspicion on a
dark night that if the bribe is refused you
will find your spare wheel, or even your
car, gone when you return.
“Sudden Death” : They must manage these
things differently in England. Dr. J. F.
Waldo, one of London’s coroners, recently
stated that he had never known a case where
a pedestrian observing the rule of the road
had been killed by a car. In England the
pedestrian must keep to the right. All other
traffic keeps to the left. Wliat happens
when a rule-obeying pedestrian butts a rule-
obeying car is not quite clear. Either he
doesn’t count on the doctor’s score-sheet or
lie is not killed sufficiently to matter.
* * x x
“Run Down” : This is what we’ve all been
waiting for. An English firm has come on
the market with a battery-regeneration com-
pound which is expected to lengthen the
life of everyone who lias to use wet bat-
teries. A radio-active compound, it is claimed
to be able to desulphate and regenerate any
accumulator, however depraved, within an
hour, while plates and parts remain un-
damaged. A five-shilling carton of the stuff
will desulphate or maintain a 12-volt accumu-
lator for a year, or do the double service
for a 6-volter for the same stretch. It is,
in fact, the monkey-gland of the storage
battery, and its makers call it “Electrovite.”
Miscellaneous
“Speedy” : Tim Banner’s times, questioned
by “The Gaffer” (B. 16/6/’27), were taken
with a special split-second stop-watch. The
reason for his comparatively slow figures in
the 110 yds. was that he won pulling up,
even glancing round at his field. He was all
out in the 80 yds., about six inches separating
him from Byrne. Incidentally, Byrne fin-
ished second, after being left at the post, in
the Rugby League 100yds. championship last
season.
“Altcar”: Greyhound-racing, which re-
cently made its beginnings in N.S.W. and
was saved from an early death by a paternal
Labor Government permitting bookmakers to
field at the meetin’s, seems to have run into
a big boom in England. Its chief centres
are at Manchester, Liverpool and Birming-
ham, which are thronged with the class of
punter that is the life-blood of pony-racing
in Melbourne and Sydney. Shilling shares
in the small enclosures of the big manu-
facturing cities are being quoted as high as
£9.
*
“Shell”: Frank Hagney, once a well-known
figure in N.S.W. professional sculling
circles and now a Hollywood film actor,
has picked up some easy money in California
by winning a so-called “rowing Derby” worth
£2OO. The race was rowed across the 20-
mile strip of water between Santa Catalina
Island and the mainland, in open skiffs.
Hagney’s time was 51irs. 41min., and he
beat 67 others, including Major Goodsell.
Like all the old hands, Hagney served his
sculling apprenticeship in open skiffs, and
his earlier experience no doubt helped him
in his long pull.
“Bara Bara”: I am afraid the insidious
taint of professionalism is corrupting the
primitive innocence of Brown Brother in
Papua. The aquatic club at Port Moresby
retains crews of natives for its sailing-
canoes, and also for the paddling events.
The dusky watermen put their heads to-
gether and informed their taubadas that the
emolumentary scale for canoe-boys required
revising—upwards. The club decided to
throw itself on the sportsmanship of the
sophisticated savage and beg him to carry
on at the old rates. Failing that, it was
reluctantly resolved to meet the union’s de-
mands.
* * * *
“C. Bumpkin”: St. Kilda (Vic.), which
has just, seen Utiekah 111 depart on a
Pacific cruise, is again in the limelight as
the home of hardy yachtsmen. Frederick
Cullenger and Robert Kermodc, the two
young men who propose to sail in July in
a 33-foot 12-ton cutter from Finland along
the route Leif Ericsson took in the ninth
century when lie discovered Greenland, are
both members of the St. Kilda Dinghy Club.
I have yachted in Sweden in July and ihe
weather is as perfect as an Australian sum-
mer, though somewhat short of wind. If
their craft, the Dinkum Aussie, gets through
the ice of N. America, it will try to come
to Australia, via Panama or Suez.
❖ % ❖ ❖
“Splash”: E. W. Jones, the Westralian
swimmer, who holds the Australian quarter-,
half- and one mile championships, cannot
join the team leaving for Japan next month ,
a leg injury is the cause. This is unfor-
tunate, for Jones was distinctly Australia’s
best hope against the Nipponese. The Jap-
anese swimmers here last season demon-
strated that we have little chance in the
sprinting line against their best. But by
all accounts distance-swimming is at a dis-
count in Japan, and it is hard luck, since
Charlton was unavailable, that Jones can’t
So.
HARRY FINCH, the young South Sydney
and N JS.W. Rugby League three-
quarter. He has refused, an offer of
£200 and £6 a match to play with a
Yorkshire club.
"Nakhoda” : As “Tuan” says (B. 16/6’/27)
stengahs, not to mention pahits and slings,
bulk largely in all sporting fixtures in
Malaya. Annually a team of Dutch planters
from Sumatra used to cross over to the
British settlement of Penang for a week
of hockey, cricket, football and swimming
contests; and a hectic week it was. The
Hollanders’ chits for drinks at all the hotels
on the island were countersigned by the
club that invited them, and oceans of beer
and whisky flowed at banquets every night.
The Netherlander can stand up to his glass
with most people, and records were made, but
not on the playing-field.
“Oxmead”: English cricket critics are
fairly satisfied that no such star as Ham-
mond, the young Gloucestershire pro., has
risen _ since Hobbs began to make a name
for himself. Hammond was 24 this month
and he looks to be what Yankees call a
stemwinder. Two years ago the youngster
began to be recognised as one of the best
all-rounders in England. He was described
as a hard-hitting and determined bat, a
promising bowler and a brilliant field —
he made 56 catches for his county
in 1925. It looked as if he would
be one of the first men to be picked
against Australia, but fate intervened. Ham-
mond went with a touring team to the West
Indies, sustained an accident which was
followed by a severe illness, and spent all
last English summer in a nursing-home. This
year, restored to health, he opened in rare
form by scoring over 3000 runs in May.
Already he has eight centuries to liis credit
and a chance of getting his 2000 before June
is out. This rungetting is the more pheno-
menal because lie plays for one of the
weakest counties —Gloucestershire was 15th
on the list last year. Hammond is expected
to do for it something of the sort that
“W.G." did in the ’seventies and .Tessop a
quarter of a century later; unlike them,
however, lie isn't a west-county native, hav-
ing been born (according to Wjsden) in
Kent.
Business, Robbery, etc.
“Cuchulain”: “Quantas,” the Queens-
land-N.T. concern that runs air services,
has come to the rescue of Normanton
(N.Q.) with a once-a-week mail and passen-
ger service. It takes about 31 days to get
from Brisbane to Normantou by rail, but
the traveller in a hurry can do it in a few
hours over two days by air.
x * * *
“Demy” : One of the new commercial uses
for rubber is the manufacture of paper by
combining the fluid latex with paper-pulps.
The annual report of the United Sumatra
Rubber Co., which has reached Australia,
is printed upon the new material, which
is made up in white, or any desired color,
is finely surfaced, almost undamageable and
practically waterproof. Its adoption by the
daily papers would be relished by Domain
dossers, who complain that the wood-pulp
stuff used now doesn’t stand the weather.
“Chevroford” : A new Australian industry
is the Lagruta Cushee Tyre Co., which pro-
poses to launch out presently in Melbourne.
A. Lagruta, its promoter, is an orchestral
conductor, but this did not prevent him from
attacking the old problem of devising a
cushion tyre with the resiliency of the pneu-
matic. Lagruta has an option on a factory
in Richmond so that he can supply the
demand for his notion, if it catches the
public fancy.
“FY7”: It looks as if Queensland’s sheep
losses in the drought—certainly it has not
yet ended —have not been as disastrous as
was at first supposed. They were originally
estimated at from six to nine millions. A
comparison of the sheep census in the north-
ern State on January 1, 31)27, with that of
3.926 show a shrinkage of less than four
millions —16,965,481 in. 1927 and 20,663,222
the previous year. But the fact that Southern
Queensland had a good lambing detracts
somewhat from the value of the figures.
“Jumbuck” : During the latest two weeks
for which figures are available rabbit-skins
weighing 403 tons were offered at the Sydney
sales. The quantity represented about 5-1
million rabbits, and realised over £169,000,
or about 7M. per rabbit. Competition among
buyers became so keen in country towns
recently that prices above Sydney rates were
paid. A wideawake man bought skins at
Sydney, took them by lorry to a country
‘ town, and sold them to dealers at a profit.
Those dealers had to sell in Sydney on a
falling market, and lost substantially.
“Bouragi”: The De Haviland firm, now
established in Melbourne, has been testing
its first Australian-built aeroplane, a single-
seater Moth, designed for private use. It
aims at turning out 'planes on a commercial
basis, the price running to less than £BOO.
A dozen types of machine have been built
in this country, even to the engines, bur
they have been, for the most part, isolated
efforts. The efficiency of the Moth is shown
by the so-far-successful solitary flight to
Australia in one by the intrepid Rook.
“Larrapinta”: “Snooks’s'’ sarcastic re-
marks (I>. 26/5/’27) about the strength of
saffron-heart show limited experience. The
stronger timbers stand a more severe rigidity
test than solid steel rods of the same weight
over a short span. I put several pieces of
wood to the test that “Snooks” sneers at and
found that blackwood broke, Tassie stringy-
bark and English ash bent greatly but didn’t
break, a piece of American “shagbark” hic-
kory stood up well, and a piece of South
American greeiiheart stood as rigid as a crow-
bar.
x x x x
“Knee D.”: I wanted some cash in a
hurry, and bethought me of a philanthropist
who advertises that he lends on personal
security. lie greeted me cordially, but
when we came down to tacks all lie was
prepared to do was to lend me something
at about 150 p.c. p.a. if I could induce some
friend to give a lien over his motor-car or
house. That was no good, so I raked up
some assets —£300 they totted up to —and
tendered legal proof that they belonged to
me. Then he offered to lend me £l5 on
terms that worked out at 254 p.c. p.a. And
I’m told lie’s a lily compared to some.
x x x *
“Store” : The cash-order system has a trick
of working this way. The applicant gets an
order for £lO with which to purchase goods
at a store that negotiates such orders. He
pays £1 when he gets the order and 10s. a
week for 19 weeks, the theory being that
he pays 5 per cent, interest in advance and
thereafter works off capital. But instead of
5 per cent, he is paying at the rate of about
224 per cent. p.a.. since the transaction aver-
ages out as a loan of £4 10s. for 19 weeks
at a charge of 30s. And on top of that the
cash-order co. gets a commission from the
negotiator of the order on the value of the
goods sold. It seems a pretty high return
for a pretty slight risk.


% Li-A
f H
%
/
-V
%
\
i
M
W
'A
J
%
„
not tlll the race is run,
that we know the winner/
THEN some rejoice—others lament. Those who, unfortunately, were not on the winner blame their bad luck or the
absence of the “good oil.”
Yet there’s a race starting now in which everybody can participate—the race to strike oil in Australia or its
territories. Fortunately, in this race everybody can be on what appears to be the out-and-out favorite. In fact, those
who miss the winner will have only themselves to blame. Such a well-known authority as Dr. Jensen, one of our most
eminent geologists, unhesitatingly tips Barum River Oilfields, in the Mandated Territory of New Guinea, as a very probable
winner.
After a close survey of the Company’s area, Dr. Jensen concludes an extraordinarily favorable report with:—
“BETWEEN TADABU AND MAISA I EXPECT OIL TO BE STRUCK AT LESS THAN 1000 FEET.”
The portion of the Company’s area on which it is proposed to commence boring as soon as possible is situated between
Tadabu and Maisa, with good constructed roads direct to an excellent harbor at Erima.
Other Extracts from Dr. Jensen’s Report.
It is worth noting that Dr. Jensen has never reported so
favorably on any other oilfield. His complete report is
optimistic from beginning to end, and his statements are
distinctly definite:—
“The shale beds are definitely saline, a fact
strongly in favor of the discovery of oil.”
“Several gas-seeps of inflammable gas were
recorded. These gas-seeps are additional evidence
favoring oil.”
Two Other Significant Facts.
New Guinea is one of the most favorable countries
likely to produce oil in commercial quantities. It is within
the second known oil-belt within which all the great oil-
fields of the world, outside America, are situated.
And at the moment a party of experts is on its way
from England to investigate New Guinea. The Federal
Government has appointed Dr. Woolnough to represent
them with this party. This is very significant.
20,000 Contributory Shares are now offered for subscription under this prospectus, payable 5/- per share on
application, 5/- per share on allotment, and the balance as and when required in calls of not more than 2/6 per share,
payable at intervals of not less than one month.
Directors:
E. H. STIEFVATER, Esq., General Manager Merchants, Ltd.,
SYDNEY.
WALTER ALCOCK, Esq., Commonwealth Portland Cement Co.,
Ltd., SYDNEY.
C. T. ELMSLIE, Esq., A.1.M.M., F.R.G.S., Chairman Atlas Corpora-
tion, Ltd., SYDNEY.
No imagination is needed to realise what will happen
if oil is tapped in commercial quantities at Barum River. In
1911 the British Government took £2,225,000 worth of
shares in Anglo-Persian Oil Company, and has received
already £45,000,000 in dividends. In 1908 all the shares
in Royal Dutch could have been bought for £40,000. In
1911 they were worth £40,000,000. To-day, their value is
well-nigh incalculable.
Bankers:
E., S. AND A. BANK, LTD., Martin Place, SYDNEY.
COMMONWEALTH BANK OF AUSTRALIA, RABAUL.
Solicitors:
ALFRED ROFE AND SONS, O’Connell Street, SYDNEY.
Auditors:
RICHARD H. BROWN & CO., O’Connell Street, Sydney.
Secretary.
B. FORD, 19 O’Connell Street, SYDNEY.
The Directors are quite ready to admit that all oil
ventures are highly speculative, but in the case of Barum
River they feel that the discovery of oil in payable quantities
is far more a probability than a possibility. Such a favorable
report from so eminent an authority as Dr. Jensen is very
convincing evidence. If the Doctor is correct, and we really
cannot doubt his findings, there is a fortune in a few shares.
If you cannot call at the office, use the slip at foot to obtain
a prospectus.
/
\\
BARUM RIVER
on FIEIDS La*
m
rc.
V
<*. x-
OFFICE:
19 O’CONNELL SREET, SYDNEY.
USE THIS SLIP TO SEND FOR A PROSPECTUS.
ADDRESS
8.J.23.


Under
Royal
Warrant
To H.M.
Kin 6,
George V L
Vintage 1917.
CHAMPAGNE
CharlesHeidsieck
nm
Australasian Agents—
Swift & Company Limited
SYDNEY.
champagne
QiaifcsHeidsteat
REIMS
TTii—i w"* 1
PELLI3SON
Cognac Brandy.
lo YEARS OLD.
Australasian Asrerts—
SWIFT & COMPANY LIMITED, Sydney.
\
%
Ik St
m
4*
fILTJCW
THE WENTWORTH
CHURCH HILL.
Sydney’s Most Noteworthy Hotel.
JN the midst of the city, but sufficiently removed
from the racket to provide ideal accommoda-
tic a for the traveller in search of the perfect
hospitality.
Steam-heated in Winter. Air-cooled in Summer.
Rooms with or without Baths, or with Sitting-
rooms en suit;.
THE DELIGHTFUL WENTWORTH CAFE
is Sydney’s most magnificent Ballroom, and the
Social Rendezvous of Smart People.
All Reservations may be made by Ringing BWIB6I.
centre of Queens/onc/s
eft's Soc/o/ Ljfe*
ffiohl
RDTSFI
BRISBANE
Magnificent B a 11-
roora, Palm Court
and Lounges at the disposal of
guests and their friends at all
times.
Suites de Luxe —double and single
Bedrooms, with Bathrooms
attached. Hot and cold running
water and Electric Fans in every
Bedroom, and every modern con-
venience for the comfort of guests.
Telegrams and Cables: Lennon’s, Brisbane,
Telephone, Central 5180 —10 Lines.
hh
A WOMAN'S
LETTER
SAY-
Kayser
SLIPPER HEEL
[?]
STOCKINGS
Socially Girls’ Week was a magnificent
success, but financially it did not justify the
that was made. The objective of
ilo,ooo was only about a quarter in sight
when the festivities ended, but the appeal
w ill go along just the same.
The Girls’ Week Ball at the Palais Royal
was a joyous finale to the seven days of
great endeavor. Even the elders who
directed the campaign won back the spirit of
youth. They were girls together for the
evening, laughing, jazzing or cajoling the
smiling men to buy flower favors or lucky
balloons. Lady de Chair, although looking
so queenly in a side-trained and draped gown
of gold metal cloth with a small futurist
pattern of peacock-green and coral, and
wearing a fillet of pearls in her hair, danced
with as much zest as the youngest deb.,
Professor Radcliffe Brown squiring her
through a measure which was encored and
encored again. Elaine’s pretty frock was of
old-rose georgette with a fringed jupe.
But the charming debs, were the success
of the evening. They were all so very
youthful, and the expression of demure shy-
ness _ was general as they dropped their
curtsies to vice-royalty, each maid with her
eyes modestly downcast upon her little
posy of white blossoms. The buds were
all in white, and one little lass wore her
skirts right to her ankles. They were Mollie
McWilliam, Marjorie and Gwen Giovanelli,
Jean Morice, Marjorie Todd. Phyllis Atlee
Hunt. Nancie Fleming and May Seaward.
Mrs. A. G. Thomas brought them to the Vice-
reine, and Mrs. A. V. Roberts did the pre-
senting, while eight shy young men stood in
the background trying to look as if they
liked it. The debs, and their partners then
had the floor to themselves for a waltz, but
looked so lonely in the vast waste of polished
floor that a few sympathetic souls joined in
and set the jazz ball rolling again. Ben Fuller
gallantly did the rounds of the loges with Mrs.
Villoughby Rodman, a visitor from the
1 .8. V P> judge which was the best deco-
rated ; but the Tennis Association was the
only one in it, since it was the only one to
decorate. The American visitor sported
handsome platinum-grey wrappings in metal-
ised tissue, and calculated decisively that
she had never seen a more beautiful col-
lection of young people even in her own
wonderful country.
At the Wentworth the other night, when
the Limbless Soldiers’ Aquatic Club and
Provident Fund got a lift, such big ’uns
as haunt the dreams of the unsuccessful
fisherman sported in the paper waves of
an aerial sea between rock and coral caves
and paper sea-gardens. This synthetic ocean
was supposed to entirely surround the cav -
dwelling diners: but the waitresses jibbed
at having the soup endangered by floating
jelly-fishes and sea-anemones. Still, the fish
in the air looked happy compared with the
fisli-out-of-water V.C.’s and the Port Hacking
•shark-tragedy hero when they found them-
selves under the eyes of the congregation.
Josephine Marks, that indefatigable
charity worker, was the organiser. She host-
essed in ivory brocade crystal and sequin
trimmed, and carrying a mammoth bow o 1
maroon ribbons perched on one hip. She
brought over 50 of the 700-odd revellers,
among them Mayor Mostyn and his wife,
she in hyacinth-blue georgette. crystal
sprinkled. Brig.-General Lloyd smiled
approval and brought his wife, who banded
her dark hair in a gold Grecian-like fillet
to brighten up her black toilette.
It was like gilding the lily to decorate the
stately stones of St. John’s College, but
the youthful students wanted warmth and
color for the annual dance last week, and
achieved it, with golden-laden myrtle-green
orange-trees in green tubs standing in the
spacious entrance-hall—the college colors are
Emerald and gold. The handsome balustrading
of the stone stairway was garlanded with
smilax and mammoth red roses; mauve
water-lilies straying over a stone fount, and
red roses and smilax canopying the refectory
where the ball was held, gave warmth and
color; and a great log-fire in the reception-
room suggested a noble of ancient days hold-
ing feast in his haronial hall. The rector
Dr. O’Reilly, radiated hospitality at the
head of the stairway, and Mrs. Walter Bur-
lit was hostess for the evening, fortified for
her duties in pink georgette glittering with
crystals.
The N.S.W. branch of the English Speak-
ing Union lias (>O5 members and five were
absent on Friday evening when Henry Brad-
don presided at a dinner at Farmers, where
Mark Sheldon and his lady and Noel Mcln-
tosh were the guests of honor. Never has
Sydney seen such a big gathering of business
men in happier vein. It made the press
reporters gasp to see S. M. Herald’s general
manager Conley arise with the Rotary choir,
and rattle off "Tom, Tom, the Piper’s Sou.”
The lean Sheldon knight handed bouquets
to the organising secretary, Mrs. Wallace
Turner, when he said "Thank you" for him-
self and liis lady—she looking particularly
well in a silver lace gown that matched her
well-groomed hair. An interlude was the
presentation of prizes to the successful stu-
dents of the All Schools’ Essay Competition.
All the prize winners were girls. Margaret
Ilentze, a slim, apple-cheeked, brown-haired
lass of 17 from the University Coaching
College, got the senior ; and other winners
were Iris Love (2nd senior), Mona Cannon
(junior) and Lucy Spruson (primary).
The night of the eclipse was also chosen
by the Flying Corps for the fifth annual jazz.
The Wentworth was graced with a picturesque
company, for the officers wore their uniforms
of grey and blue. The G.-G. came in time
for a balloon flight, which the lads of the
wing enjoyed as heartily as a crowd of
youngsters watching a bubble-blowing con-
test. President George Hartman received
him, his pretty blonde wife sharing the honor
and dancing with his Ex. in a cloth of gold
frock, showing a bead garden in pastel tones
from waist to hips and a fall of crystal
fringe to the skirt hem. Captain Geoffrey
Forrest Hughes, president of the Aero Club,
was with liis tall wife; she took none of the
glory from his uniform, for she clothed her
self sombrely in black with a gold lace jupe
frill and a tiny shoulder posy.
The G.-G. as commodore of the Royal Syd-
ney Yacht Squadron will bring Lady Stone-
haven to the annual ball on July 27. Tile
club-house will see the festivities.
The Corpus Christi procession at Manly
on Sunday was an impressive enough spec-
tacle to pacify even those who had been buf-
feted in the crowd of 20,000 which flocked
to the Village. Coadjutor Archbishop Dr.
Sheehan carried the sacrament, and benedic-
tion was given in the open from an altar on
the steps of the College grounds. White-
robed small girls, and boys in scarlet cloaks
strewing leaves in the pathway of the pro-
cession, and the blue-cloaked, white-veiled
Children of Mary reminded one of a scene in
the southern French provinces.
The Concert Tours, Ltd., promoters, are
evidently men of discernment, for they have
just signed on Jack Griffiths as manager. No
one knows the Australasian circuit better
than the genial pilot of the Frederic Shipman
tours, of Althouse and Middleton, of Amy
Castles and a host of other artists. He has
American and Continental experience as
well.
Another Maorilander who has become a
good citizen of Australia displays her strik-
ing profile in this Bernice Agar picture. She
is Mrs. John Fuller, wife of the senior mem-
her of the
Fuller theat-
ric a 1 fir m.
The lady is a
great worker
for charity,
and brings
ideas and
quiet common-
sense to many
com m it tee
meetings. Her
favorite
char i t y is
Karitane, the
m o t h e rcraft
centre; to this
institution she
and her hus-
band have in
this year alone
given some-
thing like a
thou s a n d
pounds. Mrs.
Fuller leaves with her husband on a visit
to England and the United States this week.
St. Martha’s, at Strathfield, was flower-
fragrant for the marriage of Monica Seears,
a pretty local girl, with Dr. Sydney O’Rior-
dan, fourth son of the late Michael O’Rior-
dan, of Randwick. The bride looked like
a snow-maiden with clouds of tulle veiling
afloat over bouffanting white taffetas and
an armful of white hyacinths and lily of the
valley. A rose-and-silver frocked bridesmaid
and a pink-tulle clad flower-girl helped make
a pretty picture. Dr. McCafifery gave the
bridegroom the usual support, and Monica's
mother received the company at the Australia
in handsome black, crystal-trimmed.
Florence Shaw, of Drummoyne, and Frank
Adams, of Darling Point, had an important
engagement at St. Philip’s Church last week.
Florence made her vows in a white georgette
frock shimmering with crystals and sequins.
Dulcie Shaw and Nancy Adams, visions in
powder-blue and pink, held her shower of
white hyacinths while Vivian Adams and
Noel Tueggie minded the ring until it was
wanted. The bridegroom’s mother was
hostess at the reception at the Ambassadors.
There was an alliance of western and
northern suburbs at St. Philip’s on Thurs-
day night. Queenie Lobb, of Wollstonecraft.
was the silver-lace-clad and ivory-lace-veiled
bride; her best man was Walter Short of
Stratlifield. She had a matron-of-honor.
Mrs. Ronald Walker, and for maids Eva
Short. Betty and Joan Ward. Nonie Parish
and Twinkie Primrose, all pink and silver
visions.
Another St. Philip's bride was Beatrice
Cliff, of Greenwich. Her ’groom was J. A.
Knuckey, of Adelaide. White pussy willow
satin and Chantilly made lovely bridal
draperies. Daisy Cliff and Winifred Lane
'maided in the same soft material in a soft
pale-blue tone and wore big-black velvet hats.
The wife of Justice Langer Owen and
daughter of knight Frederick Chapman,
Judge of the Supreme Court of Wellington
(M.L.), looks out from this Bernice Agar
picture. Since
her marriage
Mrs. Owen has
identified her-
self with the
various
women’s move-
men ts in the
city. Baby wel-
fare, particu-
larly as repre-
sen t e d by
Karitane, the
Moth ercraft
Institution at
Woollahra, has
her unflagging
interest, an d
with M r s.
Dundas Allen
(another ex-
M a orilander)
Mrs. O w e n
w u s respon-
sible for the successful bridge and mali-
jongg afternoon and evening in the ball-
room of Retford Hall, the Tony Hordern
home. This was last week’s special effort
for Karitane. The ball at the Wentworth
the previous week netted £5OO,
The Synagogue had a wedding the night
of the eclipse. Vera, daughter of the late
Aaron Emanuel, of Auckland, was married
to Bernard Cohen, of Coogee, by Rabbi
Cohen and the Revs. Einfeld and Falk. The
bride showed originality in her choice of a
gown, having rainbow colors in sequins em-
broidered on silver tissue. The blue and
pink and mauve and pearl shone beneath the
tine tulle veil, which formed a train as it
cascaded from a coronet of orange-blossoms.
Her cousins, Hilda Rosenthal, Sophie Myer-
son and Muriel Emanuel, were bridesmaids
in faint pink velvet, defying wedding super-
stitions about wearing green by having
embroideries and bead dressings of the ver-
dant shade. The Maccabean Hall saw the
festivities.
Another wedding was that of Florence
Edwards, of Ruslicutter’s Bay, and John
Beverley Mackay, of The Overflow. Warren.
A taffetas sash and hip-bow silver-lined gave
a becoming girlish effect to the white wed-
ding-frock of silver-beaded georgette. Sister
Ena was in attendance in a pink georgette
frock covered in bi.scuit-unted silk lace. After
the ceremony at St. Canice’s the bride’s
parents entertained at the Ambassadors.
Bruce, Dr. Arthur’s only boy, took to him-
self a wife last week —Dorothy McLeod, of
Guerie. Her wedding finery, of ivory georg-
ette and silver lace and rare old lace veiling,
was beautiful; but her sweet smiling face
took all attention. Her sister Hazel wore a
pervanche blue frock with cyclamen velvet,
and the effect can be heartily recommended.
Another sister, Mrs. A. J. Stevenson, of
Dubbo, received the company at the Carlton.
Irene McDonell was another of last week’s
brides. She said her “I will” in the presence
of Alexander Rutherford, of Young, at St.
John’s, Darlinghurst. Her white georgette
frock glimmered with rhinestones. Mr. and
Mrs. C. McDonell served the wedding meats
at Warrabinga, Rose Bay.
Under a light mist of tulle and in a heavy
mist of rain, Esma, the North Sydney Wil-
liam Macintoshes’ only daughter, stepped into
St. Stephen’s, which had quite a martial
atmosphere. Lieut. Albert Fisher McDonald
was standing to attention at the chancel steps
waiting for the ivory satin, tulle-enveloped
vision, who wore grandmother’s lace veil
over her diaphanous frock. In similar rai-
ment of pink came attendant maids Pattie
Fitzsimons. Yalmai Ramsay, Doreen Callan,
Margaret Lethbridge and Jean Cohen. The
’groom’s fellow-officers formed a guard of
honor, and the congratulations were said at
the Australia.
Karitane Mothercraft Centre is fortunate
in its friends, and another successful func-
tion was arranged to augment funds last
week. Mrs. Toiiy Hordern lent lier ballroom
to Mrs. Dundas Allen and Mrs. Langer Owen,
who roped in 200 bridge players for the after-
noon and as many jazzers for the night.
Other ardent supporters of the Plunket sys-
tem sold tea and other trifles to those who
could take their attention off the rubber.
Miss Eaditli Walker sent a cheque for £lOO.
That big-hearted Salvationist, Mrs. Orames,
is transferring her activities to Victoria, and
to bid her good-bye the Women’s League
brewed tea at Bathurst and said it with
flowers. The guest also took away some in
formation about rice-growing at Leeton. Miss
Lois Grant, who has done it successfully,
reckons it’s a road to a modest fortune, de-
spite that rain ruined her last crop.
The exclusive gown artists will have their
staffs working at high pressure for the next
few weeks because the Queen’s Club intends
keeping the revolutions of society entertain-
ments going with a ball. The lucky guests
will be bidden to the Wentworth on July 28.
When last week Surgeon Dan Kelly walked
into what you might almost call his own hos-
pital. the Mater., at North Sydney, after six
Months in America, the sister in charge of
the operating theatre failed for a moment to
recognise him. He has regained that, boyish
figure and scliool-girl complexion which ail
the best hoardings recommend to us. He had
a perfect ’busman’s holiday. He visited clinics
and hospitals, and lectured and was lectured
to —especially on the great subject of cancer.
On one occasion he spoke on cancer-preventive
measures to an audience of over 2000 women.
But be has put his experiences into an article
for the Australian Medical Journal, and
until that appears the subject’s closed.
Mrs. Dan had a great time picking up the
threads of old friendships. The Nortons,
whom Sydney remembers as the most delight-
ful U.S.A. Consul couple it has known, are
now in a glittersome position in Washington.
Besides being among its most widely-experi-
enced diplomats, Mr. Norton is one of the
greatest linguists in the service—he knows
seven living languages and almost as many
dead ones. The Brittens, too, now live in
the shadow of the White House. The size of
the hospitals her husband visited amazed
Mrs. Kelly. Some of the private hospitals
held a thousand beds. But, she adds, there's
one place that holds more people at a time
than any hospital. It’s the new movie theatre
of N’York, the Boxy. Six thousand empty
themselves from it just on twelve o’clock
every night.
The Catholic Women’s Association is suf-
fering badly from growing paius, particu-
larly in the hostel department, and is
determined to cure the cramp in the com-
fortable “residentfal” for business-girls who
have no people of their own in the city.
For the building-fund an afternoon cabaret
provided a means of extracting a little casli
l’roin old friends as well as attracting a host
of new workers. The übiquitous shoulder-
posy was a source of thriving business in
the hands of pretty girls. President Mrs.
Barlow had a regiment of assistant organi-
sers, who brought along platoons of guests.
City Tattersall’s Club members are organis-
ing a ball for the Children’s Hospital at the
Palais Royal on July 19. As a preliminary
canter the members’ wives gave a bright little
dance at the club rooms last week.
Miss Hope Major, selected as the Hospice
Queen, has an enthusiastic band of supporters
working to make her one of the crowned
heads in the Firemen’s Art Union Queen
Competition for Hospitals and Ambulance.
A supper-dance will be one of the avenues of
profit. It is fixed for July 5 at the Went-
worth. Mrs. William Macleod is president
of the committee, which is lucky enough to
have Josephine Marks as lion, organising
secretary.
A few lines from Darwin: —
We’ve been very lively of late. The local cricketers
played a match with the Australian team that was
on its way to the Malay States, and, though beaten,
put up a good scrap. The visitors were motored to
various places of interest and were guests at the local
picture-show, where a special programme was put on.
Interested spectators at the match were the long-
distance motorists Mrs. Sandford and Miss Christie,
who had just arrived from south. Their closed car,
with its cloud of autographs, got a lot of scrutiny.
Mrs. Sandford met residents who remembered her
mother, who lived here 40-odd years ago. She wa-
a Miss Lassau, a brilliantly clever musician. Mrs.
Sandford has inherited her mother’s clear, sweet
voice, and the little talk that she gave at a meeting
of the Victoria League was a delight. Sirs. Sand-
ford hopes to return in six months’ time —by aero-
plane.
The survey ship Geranium made a call, and the
sailors played one or two games of football with
the local lads, but were beaten badly.
A fair number of visitors were at the local school
on Empire Day; but as one watched the crowds of
Chinese children, with their beady black eyes, and
noted the very, very small number of white youngsters,
one wondered whether the celebration wasn’t really
intended as satire.
Beryl Parer, -who is to be married before this
sees print, has been to tea with several local
hostesses.


_ ZSVAZS* v- ——
HAFCDY B FLO S LTD.
J EWELLE FLS
——
PEARL NECKLETS
■
■
m
m i
m
m
m
IP
■
and loose Pearls
Always fashionable and in per-
fect taste for every occasion, a
Pearl Necklet is a woman’s most
prized possession, no other Jewels
giving such lasting pleasure.
A small Pearl Necklet is often
purchased, and, on Birthdays and
other Anniversaries, extra Pearls
added until a large and valuable
string is obtained.
Hardy’s stock of Pearl Necklets
and loose Pearls are bought, only
on the most favorable terms, and
offer the best value and largest
selection in Australasia.
298-300
Pearl Necklets range from £lO/10/- to £5OOO.
Five per cent, discount for Cash.
Barfly’s Catalogue will be sent Post Free, to any address, on request
HARDY
JI6-JIB
COLLINS ST., BROTHERS LTD QUEEN SF.
MELBOURNE 'gg e ‘Jf ousc gP SoxluSUX, VeweUaq BRISBANE.
13 HUNTER STREET. SYDNEY.
And at LONDON.
golden
kernels
cur-r^g
CfS
™OsTli
mmi
°hqple eat the} n far crispness
...for balancednourishment /
and above aIIJorFLA VOURf
TASTE these golden grains! Get to know their
nut-like flavour, made even more tempting by a
delicate suggestion of malt sugar. Grape-Nuts are made
from wheat and malted barley; they supply, in readily
digestible form, food elements of vital importance to
health. Served with whole milk or cream they form
an admirably balanced ration. Your grocer sells Grape-
Nuts; give them a daily place on your table.
e=
Post Products also include Instant Postum and Post
Toasties —ask your grocer about these.
Wholesale Agents: LEWIS & CULL, 316 Pitt St.,
Sydney.
Plumbers and Steam Fitters
A Practical
Trade
Assistant
PRICE,
COMPLETE SET
OF 4 VOLS.,-
tm
&
AUDtLS 1 , AUDEtS
PIUMBERS ?iumm
Auoels.
PtOMBERS
Steam 1
Fitters!
Quids f
i .
sw
_ ANsAS
Steam
Guioi
Steam
Fitters.
Qu.d>
M 5
!Ofl
ft#
<S
»3» ■
\
\
T •
*J ‘ ;
', t,
PHYSICS t
•WTfgiAtS!
TOOLS: !
it At) '•s
WORK %
WATER i
SUPPLY T
Drain a. f
ROUSH si
WOHK
'TESTS '
PIPE Y
FITTJH&S
HEATSWS
VENtt&TIO
' .GAS ,S
STeAM
0 i
■■:>
MS
<r.;
30/-
POST
FREE
ASK
THE
GUIDE
The right answer
to every problem
is at your finger-
tips.
u
JSSSmisi
* ->
Mayes’ Australian
Builders and
Contractors*
PRICE BOOR
Practically Re-written in every Branch oj
Construction, greatly enlarged, illustrated
and, alphabetically arranged.
9th EDITION
Price 15/- Posted 15/4
RIGHT UP-TO-DATE. Invaluable for
ARCHITECTS, SHIRE ENGINEERS AND PROPERTY OWNERS.
ESTIMATES FOR
AH kinds of House Building Costs, Fitting and Lighting, Wire and other Fencing, Automatic
Closing Oates, Plough and Scoop Work, Tank and Well Sinking, Excavation, Dam Making,
Septic Tanks, Pumps, Windmills, Hydraulic Rams, Tractors, Felton Wheels, Oil and other Engines,
Wood Stave Pipes, Boring for Water, Tree Rooting and Logging Plants, Felling and Squaring
Trees and Working of Timber, Pneumatic Tools for all classes of Boring, Drilling and Hammer
Tools. Different Air Compressors illustrated, with prices. Concrete Mixers, Modern Road-making
Plant, Modern Construction Tables for Reinforced Concrete Facing- of Buildings (Faence) in
Terra-cotta, Sandstone, Ceramic, etc.
All Building Costs can be checked with the aid of
MAYES’ BUILDERS AND CONTRACTORS’ PRICE BOOK.
PUBLISHED BY
N. S. W. BOOKSTALL CO., LTD.,
CASTLEREAGH AND MARKET STREETS, SYDNEY.
J\io r<eed /Gr Grey
H<3!
*»*
atice. . is t i ie first; sift»
( Awjr°^;; r S duty to
,r«t*
her clnuncn L • aS P?
»vr g W/'SSi
young lo °'f"tue fuM
l sr.iS^ n ol
iw '»c ««t »S2SS 4-*
grey m*u J • aBsi „g yog*
nite siß» 1 imineff 1 !
___ s hou\i\ DO , vCT nedred u ''
attacked an This may
every hut there rs 11
>Sf ’if: «£“V
11 ri'iie remedy \Valn Q t
*££ -K'S sin^.»t,
harmless to use. s ot
s “a»® Ttintn the W« “
TSSSJ» t^fiAST,
A for the full/
t 0 name.
->v.
«2 YQUwCa AexicaK
WALNUT STAIN
CHRISTOPHER JOHNSON & CO., Sheffield,
FLAG BRAND CUTLERY. England
Registered Trade-mark.
BRITISH
SCISSORS of
HIGH QUALITY.
SOLID STEEL. A LIFETIME’S WEAR.
Representatives:
NORMAN BAKER & LONGHURST, LTD.,
Sydney, Melbourne, and Wellington, N.Z.
No. 1369


A. SAUNDERS’
English
A. Saunders’ English Cut Glass Water Set, with Ju
and Six Tumblers, 75/-
Larger Size, 84/-
jzjz. m
A. Saunders’ English Cut Glass Fruit
Bowl. Three Sizes, 25/-, 30/-,
40/-
98
m
A. Saunders’ English Cut Glass
Rose Bowl, Two Sizes, 60/-,
70/-
A. Saunders'
English Cut Glass
Flower Vase, Two
Sizes, 15/6,
20/-
Cut Glass
A. Saunders’ English Out
Glass Decanter, £2.
m
A. Saunders’ English Cut Glass Float Bowl,
WRITE FOR ILLUSTRATED PRICE LIST.
A. SAUNDERS,
Watchmaker—Jeweller—Optician,
805-813 GEORGE STREET (opposite Railway Station), SYDNEY.
Offset the hazards of
the road ahead
POOR roads hold no terrors for the driver
of the motor car or truck equipped
with Weed Tyre Chains.
He knows that no delays, inconveniences
or accidents will be experienced as a
result of slipping, spinning or skid-
ding wheels— because Weed Tyre
Chains Grip and Hold.
In mud, sand, clay or snow and on
wet slippery roads, they assure pos-
itive traction and maximum safety.
Weed Tyre Chains are made for all
tyres. They are easily identified by
their brass plated hardened steel
cross chains—galvanized side chains
and red lever locking connecting
hooks with the name Weed”plainly
stamped on them. Order from
your dealer.
AMERICAN CHAIN COMPANY. Inc.
New York. N. Y.. P. S. A.
Foremost in quality for more than 20 years 33
WEED TYRE CHAINS
Weed de Luxe
Pattern
DIAMONDS
SPECIAL. VALUE
D I AM ON D-CIRCLE-RINGS
FROM £|s 150
DIAMONDS
4
Vt
DIAMONDS
X
Ur
Drummond’s Diamond and Gem completely
fulfil the most exacting demands rightly attaching
to the purchase of the finest rin&s procurahle.
Speaking from an experience of over half a
century, the firm invite you to expect of their rin&s
a Quality, -a Superiority of Workmanship, and an
Individuality that can be found in no other rin£s.
Drummond’s rin&s are the supreme combination
of all of these characteristics, and a true reflection
of more than fifty years of specialised effort to
evolve the most beautiful rin£s that can be made.
WM-DMUMMOND <SI CO.
HOUSE FOR FINE QUALITY DIAMONDS-*
AND PEARLS
344.346 COLLINS ST. MELBOURNE
A
-
CHEKiial
TO
iwffir
>IM 1-T
«aim
uau»
L l
Why ENO in Winter
IN Winter time, you miss the warm sunshine, the
joy of the surf, and outdoor exercise. The whole
bodily system is apt to become sluggish and you
feel depressed. Let ENO’s“Fruit Salt” balance what
you lose in Winter—just a “dash” every morning,
sparkling in a glass of water, is all you need.
By gently promoting internal cleanliness, ENO
removes the causes of constipation, indigestion,
headaches, and depression. It contains no fla-
vouring matter, no sugar, no purgative mineral
salts, and may be given to the youngest child or
frailest invalid.
Prepared only V>y
J. C. ENO, LTD.,
London, England.
Sales Agents: The British
Harol-J F. Ritchie Co.,
Ltd., Sydney, N.S.W
t
IH
TWO SIZES
AT CHEMISTS
AHD STORES.
THE WORDS “FRUIT SALT” AND ENO ARE REGISTERED TRADE MARKS


THE
WOMAN’S MIRROR
Published Every Tuesday
Is the most popular 64-page
woman’s paper published in
the Commonwealth. It features
everything a woman ought to
know. Once you read it you
will never be without it.
Its up-to-date weekly pattern
is free for the asking.
Published by
The Bulletin Newspaper Co.,
314 George Street, Sydney.
‘WHERE ARE YOU STAYING IN MELBOURNE?”
“Oil, Scott’s, of course ! It’s handy to everywhere—l’ight in the heart
of the city, near offices, wharves, shops, warehouses, railway
stations and theatres. And they look after you well at “Scott’s”:
you can’t equal it elsewhere for comfort, excel-
lent table and personal attention. And there's
hot- and cold-water service and direct and inter-
communicating telephones in all bedrooms.”
Inclusive Tariff by Day or Bed and
Breakfast Rate.
WRITE FOR TARIFF CARD.
Scgtt’S
MELBOURNE _____
4
SYDNEY.
The Finest Restaurant and Dance
Re: dezvous in Australasia.
PATRONAGE CONTINUALLY INCREASING.
Capacity: Dining and Supper Dances up to 1000.
For Wedding' Receptions, Banquets, Dining and
Supper Dances, inquiries to Manager.
Mon., Tues., Wed., Fri., Special Dining, 7.30,
12/6. Suppers 10 p.m., 7/6. Value and satis-
faction without equal. No charge for three
hours’ dancing on satin-smooth spring Boors —•
a new thrill of real delight.
Thurs. and Sat. Late Gala Nights. Continental
Dinner from 7.30, 21/-. Suppers, 10 p.m., 12/6.
Phis evening in London costs £2/2/- upwards.
PEERLESS ORCHESTRA OF TEN.
Bewitching Cabaret, afternoons and evenings.
Deliffhtf.nl Afternoon Teas. 3.30 to 5.30, 5/-
Parties of 6 upwards, 4/6; 12 upwards, 4/-
Two hours’ entertainment of sheer delight.
Order Wines before 6 p.m. Ring M. 3666.
Melbourne
Chatter
Buckley's
Elizabethan
Tea Rooms
F[?] Contral 800for P[?]
Buckley e-Nunn, Lrimited.
So[?] so M[?]
Dante’s bottommost hell where the. traitors
freeze is the only one that daunts us on
rising just now. Anything with a rosy glow
in it looks inviting. Morning after morning
we find the world white and the thermometer
mercury shrunk almost out of sight. At
Buffalo winter sports are being indulged in
some weeks ahead of the usual time, and the
lakes in the Gardens are covered with ice.
But though nights and early mornings are
regular perishers, it gets warm and bright
in the middle of the day. There were a
couple of occasions last week when golfers
found the day too warm for a round, and
the Oaklands Hunt meet would have been
pleasanter if the sun hadn’t shown a tropi-
cal streak.
Saturday was fur day at Caulfield races.
With chill and rain in the air no one
attempted to achieve much more than
warmth in apparel. President James Grice’s
wife, whose black frock was worn with furs
and a black felt hat, spread the cloth in the
comfy committee-room for afternoon-tea.
Her daugliter-in-law, Mrs. Claude Grice,
wore a cloth topcoat of soft pink hue and
a darker toned felt headpiece. Secretary T.
it. Tabart’s wife and daughter Pixie and
Mrs. Ben Chaffey and her sister, Miss
McPherson, were entertained. Melbourne
saw its first full-length coat of calf-skin.
Its original owner must have been a nice
little creature, all white and very dark
brown ; but its hide didn’t look at all nice
on the wearer. Mrs. R. M. Cuthbertson,
wife of the new member for South Mel-
bourne, came out in a brown musquash coat,
topped _by felt millinery of pale tan. Mrs.
J. S. Fehon was wrapped in beaver fur
allied to a mushroom-pink hat. A jade-green
bat and earrings of the same color bright-
ened Mrs. E. A. Johns’s attire of black and
grey fox fur; Mrs. John Miller, who accom-
panied her, almost hid her frock of powder-
blue crepe de Chine beneath her coat of
black. Ann Willis, Enid Twoomey and
Jean McHarg were attractively-dressed re-
presentatives of the younger set. There was
a big smash in the opening hurdle race,
when two horses were killed in front of the
stand, but the jockeys got off fairly lightly.
The Chatterer lias been to the Stadium,
the home of stoush —it's quite the thing now
that the radio has accustomed the shingled
sex to the gory details. The star turn of
Saturday was the meeting of two wrestlers
from Dryland, Ted Tliye and Mike Yokel.
There were also boxing bouts, but they
weren’t very exciting. Quite a lot of women
and girls were scattered like foam among
the sea of masculinity. Bill of Avon liked
to push a hero into a wrestling bout occa-
sionally, so that his lady-love might witness
bis prowess with the scissors, the wrist-
locks and headlocks, the stopper, the crab,
and the other unpleasant tactics that wrest-
lers know. We saw all these things, and
gazed with awed admiration at referee Alf
Bridges, whose lengthy form, clad in flan-
nels, was poised like a bird in flight full
length on the ropes. He also crawled and
slid all over tlie mat, and dragged the com-
batants back to the mat when they rolled
outside the ropes in their enthusiasm. It
was a great night.
Eileen Castles, in Sydney just now, shares
with Betty of York and S. M. Bruce the
joy of being presented with a decorative
gold necklet by the Dewan Bahadur Ranga-
chariar. He liked her singing. Amy Castles
gave a party at the home of Dr. and Mrs.
C. N. Finn, Toorak, in honor of the Dewan
and his son the other night. She wore
pale blue with sparkling adornment and
sang some operatic numbers. Tenor Walter
Kirby, Aileen Mclnerney. whose fairness
was framed in black georgette, and Cecil
Parkes, with his fiddle, also made music.
Mrs. Finn, who made a name as a singer
when she was Dolly Castles, was clad in
a simple frock of apricot georgette. Mrs.
Mclnerney, the Barry Thomson couple, Dr.
and Mrs. Tuckwell and Miss McMahon were
amongst those who met the Indian potentate.
When the E.S.U. took the girl hockeyites
from Britain into its bosom at Scott’s, the
Percy de Vere Allens, of Kenya, and the
Stanley Argyle couple were guests, too. It
was a sea of hats, chiefly black, reds .and
fawn, and Iceland poppies were scattered all
around. Donald Mackinnon. as president,
greeted the guests with some rueful remarks
about the. Australian dialect. Percy Allen,
who is inspector of labor.in Kenya (call it
Keenya, please), said that a group of Queens-
landers run the biggest sugar-mill there. Dr.
Argyle spoke about his American travels, and
Consul Garrels said it was a gre.it occasion. J
Mrs. Mackinnon faced the wintry day in
black musquash coat and black millinery.
Mrs. Allen, known here as Viola Dickson,
w r ore clierry-red with a fur coat and a
tall black felt hat stabbed with a lofty orna-
ment. Mrs. Gipps, secretary of the E.S.U.,
flitted around in a smart tan-liued coat-frock
adorned with innumerable buttons and a
harmonising felt hat; Mrs. J. Watson Rob-
ertson, the Rutledge lady, Mrs. W. B. Adam-
son and Hester, the Rawson Frances couple
and Mrs. J. Salter Watts were there.
Charity and inclination linked hands at a
dance arranged by the younger set on Thurs-
day evening at “The Palms.” There was
a keen frost and the going was willing. The
Mayor’s fund benefited. Pretty Freda Wil-
loughby, in a cloud of sea-green georgette,
and Betty Watson, misted in midnight-blue,
wore the satisfied smiles of successful secre-
taries. A rainbow of colors swathed Grace
Power, and a dainty cloud of mauve peeping
through silver was Grace Mathew’s fancy.
A sea-green nymph caused a sensation by
being carried off the floor with a crushed
foot whilst dancing the blackbottom, but
that was the only casualty.
Jubilee celebrations of the Tintern Church
of England Girls’ Grammar School led off
on Saturday afternoon with a garden-party
at the historic seminary in Glenferrie-road.
About 700 were present, including several
ex-students from other States. Archgaiters
Lees and Archdeacon Ilaymen received the
guests. Speakers were Mrs. C. 11. Edmond-
son, president of the Old Girls’ Association,
the present Principal, Hilda Ball, and Mrs.
H. Mull, who represented the middle period
of the school, being head after Mrs. Cook,
who founded it. Miss' Mary Cook and her
two sisters, Mrs. A. Roe and Mrs. W.
Ross, came from Westralia.
Vanity- and woman are inseparable. At
least tlie Manufacturing Grocers’ Union
thinks that way, and on behalf of its femi-
nine members is putting in a claim that
mirrors shall be erected in all work-rooms
reserved for female employees. Some hard-
hearted employers have refused this request,
but whatever happens Eve will have a peep
at her nose.
The Adult Deaf and Dumb Society is
now oil the beggar’s corner, and the Charities
Board thinks the cause so good that it has
allotted September for a special canvas to
raise £26,000 required for additions and im-
provements to the headquarters of the society
in Jolimont-square. The Irvine lady, who
is president, has held a couple of meetings
at which the machinery has been oiled for
the campaign.
Mrs. Harry Emmerton, pictured here, by
Lafayette, was remembered with an 0.8. E.
in the Birthday distribution for her 87 years
of devotion to
charitable
causes. II e r
philantliro p i c
w ork began
with the Chil-
dren’s Hospi-
tal, and last
year this insti-
tution gleaned
£lO4O through
a fete held at
her South
Yana home,
Raveloe. She
is one of the
chief adminis-
trators of the
Queen’s Fund
mil- the poor cf
l his city. Mrs.
Emmerton was
a Balcombe,
whose family-
pasturage was
on Mornington Peninsula. _ Her husband,
who supports all his wife’s charities, is a
member of a well-known legal firm. Mrs.
Norman Brookes, wife of the tennis cham-
pion, is their only child.
The Christian Brothers’ Old Boys’ Asso-
ciation held its annual hop at the St. Kilda
Town Hall the other night, profits being-
earmarked for the Jubilee Fund of the school.
School colors mingled with decorations of
varying tones of gold in flowers and foliage.
Mrs. Rahiliy, the president’s wife, who was
given a posy, was clothed in black velvet,
and other engineers were Amy Goughian,
with lines of glisten upon a white frock;
Mrs. J. T. Conquest, whose apparel of hya-
cinth mauve had adornment of darker-toned
sequins; and Cis O’Halloran, softly clad in
clouds of amethyst-lined georgette.
Vivienne Knox-Knight changed her name
to Faulkner at the Grammar School Chapel
on Thursday afternoon. She is the eldest
daughter of the late Colonel E. Knox-Knight,
killed in the Big Scrap, and of Mrs. Knox-
Knight of Malvern, who is a social writer.
Douglas Faulkner is a son of the late Dr.
W. Cooke Faulkner of Sunbury. whose
widow married Dr. J. A. Nolan and lives
mostly in London. She is visiting Mel-
bourne and was at the wedding;. The bride,
who looked very young and radiant, made her
own wedding array of white taffeta, that
had a slight glimmer of opalescent embroidery.
A league or two of faint pink tulle formed
veil and train, that was anchored at the
back with a spray of pale pink roses and
further secured across the head with triple
bands of diamente. Her youngest sister
Elaine was attendant maid in a frock ot
delphinium blue taffeta and crinoline straw
hat of the same shade.
Hazel Bradshaw and her sister have been
packing their months with glad adventure
in Italy and France. Hazel’s first call in
England will be at Oxford on her fiance,
R. R. Shull, the Rhodes scholar, now lectur-
ing at Brasenose College. Afterwards tin 1
sisters will push on to Scotland to visit
some old friends and put in a few rounds
of golf. , . , r
A very charming, clever woman is Mrs.
I. H. Moss, pictured here by Lafayette. She
has been selected as Australia’s substitute
woman dele-
gate to the
Assembly o f
the League of
Nations. At
present she is
travelling i n
Europe with
her husband,
but when at
home she
works for the
Women’s Hos-
pital, Colling-
wood Creche,
Victoria
L e a g u e,
A.W.N.L., and
National Coun-
cil of Women ;
and she has
had 20 years
on the board
of management
of the News-
boys' Society. Mrs. Moss is the third Mel-
bourne woman to be chosen for the Geneva
gathering; she was attending a 10-days’ con-
ference of the International Council of
Women at Geneva as representative of the
N.C.W. of Victoria when she was asked
by cable to accept the greater mission.
The Sacre Cceur Association’s annual jazz
the other evening benefited the kindergarten
at Footscray. Pink blossoms, autumn leaves
and lights softened by pink shades made a nice
setting. The Vancooths’ daughter Marjorie,
arrayed in prettily-sprigged blue taffetas
cut in the Early-Victorian mode, and Amy
Byrne, in flounces of soft pink with a cape,
were joint lion. secs. The president, Kitty
Colliding, was in ivory georgette enriched
with gold. Madge Brcheny chose a gown
that mingled the green of spring with the
frosts of winter. Moliie Ryan, with a blue-
ahd-gold finish to a black robe, and Dorothy
Lloyd, taffeta-clad in peach tone, Jent a
hand with the management. Nell Wimpole,
in lettuce-green, Nessie Lillie and Rene Mae-
namara wore cheerfully frocked.
May Holman, the dark-eyed young woman
who sits in Westralia’s Parliament, has
gone on to the Harbor City after spend-
ing a tliree-weeks’ holiday in this State. She
admits that she made her maiden public
speech when she addressed her prospective
constituents for the first time, but the House
listened to her sympathetically when in her
first session she told it about the hardships
of the folk in the timber-camps—her dad
was their first union secretary. Her home
is in Perth, and she is one of a family of
nine, mostly keen on music and mumming.
The Austral Salon beckoned Muriel Starr
and some members of her company inside
for a cup of tea the other afternoon. The
actress-producer wore nutria fur on a coat of
fawn velour and a hat of dahlia-hued velvet.
Golden-brown millinery was worn by Mil-
dred Cottell, who was wrapped in a black
fur coat over a black gown. Wattle and
Iceland poppies with gum-tips decorated the
room. There was music—Elsa Stralia sang
—and Colonel Pottinger talked about the
movies and the chances of making Australia
love British flickers.
At the Austral Salon one evening last
week, a meeting was held to form a club for
the fostering of music and the arts. The
programme outlined by Mrs. Anne Macky.
who is director of our hew Conservatorium,
embraced musical drama and pageant plays.
The meeting didn’t get to any decision and
there’ll be another discussion in a few weeks'
time. Songs by Grace Evans, pianoforte
solos bv Katie Liddle, violin numbers by
fiddler Gillio, and verse-speaking by Beatrice
Tiernan rounded out the evening.
On Friday afternoon the foyer of His
Majesty’s was handed over for talk and tea
to arrange further Auxiliary help for St.
Vincent’s Hospital, George Tallis’s lady being
convener. Those who attended were told
how 30 years ago the institution was started
in a very humble way by the Sisters of
Charity, and now had 150 beds. The new
Auxiliary was formed right away with the
Tallis lady as president, Mrs. Charles Tait,
Justice Starke’s wife and Mrs. Van Cootli
vice-presidents, Mrs. George Bowcher ’ion
sec., and Mrs. Fred Nicholson as holder ol
the purse. The branch will be known as the
Grosvenor, the name of the Tallis domicile.
Eileen Starr, Joe Brennan, Carlton Chase
and 3LO orchestra entertained the gathering.
A jolly aftermath to the test hockey match
on Saturday uiglit was a hop at St. Marys
Hall, where the Victorians entertained the
English and inter-State visitors. Miss Grove,
Meredith Sutton, Sybil Taggart, Helen Green
and Marjorie Irving were hostesses. Repre-
sentatives of all the men’s hockey associations
and clubs, and officers of the Chitral, on
which the English girls were passengers, took
in the jazz.
Great bowls of holly and marigolds mad-
cheery the big reception-rooms of the Her-
bert Brookes couple on Saturday night, when
pianist Goll’s white locks and benign coun-
tenance appeared above the concert grand in
a programme of which the Beethoven ‘‘Sona-
ta Pathetique” was the big effort, with
excerpts also from Brahms, Bach, Handel.
Chopin and Mendelssohn. The hostess added
a Spanish shawl of mauve tone, much em-
broidered. to her covering of georgette of
the same shade. Mayor Morell and his lady
were there, she having a gold tissue coat
over a black robe. George Pearce and his
lady, the James Barretts and daughter Cara,
the" William Glasgow couple and Mrs. Eggle-
ston and her son were also listeners.
The Tallis wing of the Melba Hall at the
University Conservatorium was opened with
music and song on Friday night. Its com-
pletion was made possible by a cheque signed
“George Tallis.” The new wing contains
some teaching-rooms and a small hall.
The Australian Literature Society held out
a hand of welcome to Marie Bjelke Petersen
and Captain Donald McLean at the Ambas-
sadors the other night. Dr. Booth said the
proper things about the work of these two
Australian writers. Some speeches were
made by feminine members of the A.L.S., too,
and there were recitations.
Attorney-General Latham launched
Bananalander R. P. Parkinson’s show at
the Sedon Galleries, and mentioned an
English scheme that is helping artists. An
anonymous art-lover has given £lOOO a year
to finance exhibitions. A committee of
artists chooses the works to be shown, and
it is a condition that in no case must the
price exceed £5O. The first show was held
recently at Leeds, when a thousand works
were sent in, and 318 were hung. American-
Consul Garrels (who brought Senator Tink-
liam), the Basil Parkinson couple, Mrs. T.
M. Mclnerney and daughter Aileen, and
General Stanley attended the Parkinson
show.
Tara Hall, Studley Park, Kew. once the
home of Malcolm McEaeharn, Lud Mayor
of and member of the Reps, for Melbourne,
has passed into the hands of Edward Ryan,
the Coilins-street oculist. A trifle of £lO,OOO
clinched the bargain. It is a big house, but
the Ryan family is a fine, large one, and
will fill it. She was one of the McCarthy-
O’Learys. It’s a million to one that there
will be no change in the name of the shack.
A near-neighbor, across the roadway, is
Archbishop Mannix, who lias Henry Wrix-
on’s towered mansion, which was bought for
him by some of his flock.
Margaret Joy Wickenden, whose late father
was a well-known Christchurch resident, lias
smiled a consent to the proposals of Nairne
Gillespie Elder, from the Kurue-a-ruc acre-
age at Rokewood, and is wearing a hand-
some token of her engagement.
The Purple Cross Service of Victoria,
which is a foster-mother to forlorn gee-gees,
and made its presence felt during the war.
is losing Maude Harvie, lion sec. for 13
years. She is off next month with her sister
Louie for two or three years in England and
the Continent. Leila B. Mortley will carry
on her job.
Mary Fox, manager of the Tassy team
of hockey players, is going back with the
English visitors to look up old friends and
take a much-needed change of scene. She
is the adored Mistress of the Methodist
Ladies’ College, and since her residence in
Tassy has mothered hockey and persuaded
all her girls to take it up.
One of our smart ones, just back from
Paris, intrigued the dancers at a recent hop
with silk stockings one leg of which was
ringed with a woven line of gold to represent
an anklet.
Muriel Campbell, of the Albert-street Con.,
invited the social scribes to drink tea at
the Lyceum Club on Friday afternoon to
meet Dorothy Gordon, who’s here in advance
for Zimbalist. The dark-eyed lady hails
from the Harbor City, where she began a
stage career with the Firm, and later sought
fame at Hollywood, where she relieved some
of the most ornamental stars when there
was hairbreadth stunting to be done. Re-
turning to Australia full of technical wis-
dom, she helped with the scenario for “The
Term of His Natural Life.” Her beige
sleeveless frock, a study in tucks, was cov-
ered with a golden-brown broad-tail coat
topped by a toque of antelope-skin.


The Pass Word
a
foi^cmrjiealtka
v
IF
s&t
N
WOLFES
AROMATIC SCHIEDAM
SCHNAPPS
/ !
m
w
//
iIT-
V
\\
% j / m
%
Q
3Hc
3l
i'tOAln
%
/
I
,G - ii- v CHf I FJ-D
Wo l f e’s Schnapps is
obtainable in handy
quarter-size bottles, as
well as in the familiar
half - and large-size bottles


9
V '" A
*5 pn
THE
WINTON.
Write for List, of Crepe
Rubber-soled Boots.
The "WINTON"
IMPROVED
STOCK SADDLE.
DESIGNED TO INCREASE
THE CO M FORT AND
SECURITY OF THE RIDER
PRICE - - - - £l6/10/-
Fitted with Folded Girth, Bevelled
Leathers and Solid Nickel Stirrups.
Freight paid for cash with order to
any N.S.W. Railway Station.
Write for our catalogue describing
this any many other favorite saddles.
ding Head Bridle, with liu. Reins
aid Ring Bit 19/6
Shaped Felt Saddlecloth .... 8/6
Bush Spurs with Jin. n.p. Steel
Sides, with Straps 11/6
Solid Nickel Spurs 7/6
Saddle Pouch 15/-
Walther 8 Stevenson Ltd.,
395 George Street
SYDNEY.
Keep hopping and hoping if you wish
to succeed — . think of
-
SCHUTE,
BELL&Cu-
if you have
Wool & Skins
to Sell.
Personal Attention.
Officer: 44 Bridge Street, Sydney.
A IJ, AUSTRALIANS visiting London
™ should read the British Australian
and New Zealander, 6d. weekly—an illus-
trated pa-lier containing mail and cable news
from Australia and news of Australians in
Europe and at home. Australians are cordi-
ally invited to visit the British Australian
and New Zealander Reading-room at the
Offices, 414-17 Australia Mouse, Strand,
London, WC.2, where they can see the home
papers, meet their friends, use the telephone
and obtain information without charge.
Copies of the paper and general information
can be obtained at the Australian Advertis-
ing Agency, Ltd., 350 George Street, Sydney;
or 434 Collins Street, Melbourne,
If any illustration in “THE BULLETIN takes your fancy, write
to the MANAGER, who will quote you price for the original.
EUROPE S JEWELLED PLAYGROUND
m
m
~TME CASINO
MONTE CARLO
ffS
n/oi//
GLORIOUS RIVIERA
o/
R&O. Royal Mail Line
Jft aedcnaldj/amilton & Co. Agents
247 George Street Sydney
Brisbane —Melbourne—Perth.
BLENDING and color-perfect under brilliant
sunshine, the blue seas and sparkling 1 shores
of the French Riviera are the foreground
of the jewelled winter playground of Europe.
Casinos, theatres, luxurious hotels, golf links,
tennis courts, and picturesque resorts, innumer-
able tours and drives afford never-ending variety
and interest. Little further afield are moun-
tains and lakes, winter sports and ever-chang-
ing scenery-
All these await the Australian who wisely pre-
fers to travel by a P. & O. liner between Sep-
tember and January, picking his accommoda-
tion, avoiding all extremes of climate, and later
crossing to the freshness and fragrance of an
English Spring. May wc help you to plan tins
exquisite holiday?
The Little Sisters
Lennon's Hotel
BRISBANE
The Centre of Queensland
Distinguished Social Life!
QUEENSLAND.
Brisbane.
The weather did its best to recommend
Queensland to its new Governor; a blue-
and-gold day greeted the Goodwins, with a
cheery crowd assembled on the wharf to
wish them welcome. Her Ex. was handed
many beautiful flowers, amongst them a
sheaf of early wattle, which she carried off
to Government House. The new vice-regent
was brought face to face with the cow
straight away, and opened a dairy exhibi-
tion ; his first social affair was a ball in
aid of the Villa Maria appeal of the Sisters
of Perpetual Adoration, held in the South
Brisbane City Hall. Gum-tips and ribbons
of gold and ferubowls of poinsettia and golden
blossomry were the decorations. Lady Good-
win was in larkspur-blue velvet with drap-
eries of georgette and a white ermine stole.
Mrs. Campbell wore mist-grey; Airs. T. J.
Ryan, one of the reception committee, was
in jetted black, with lilies of the valley; The
Bulletin’s Nora McAuliffe Kelly, who came
with her, was in henna tulle over satin; Airs.
J. H. Sears chose apricot; apricot and henna
sheathed Airs. M. Crowe: Airs. Stafford wore
black, so did Airs. M. J. Gallagher. Joan
Case presented her Ex. with a bunch of
crimson roses.
Lady Goodwin made to the National
Council of Women what she admits was her
first public speech. She wore henna satin
with a cincture of diamente and white furs.
Airs. Campbell, who accompanied her, was m
black and gold. Airs. Cumbrae Stewart, the
president, wore black chiffon velvet with a
jet girdle caught with a mauve and silver
rose. Airs. A. L. Alallalieu chose black georg-
ette with an emerald scarf. Mrs. Cumbrae
Stewart made the speech of welcome and
spoke of our land of sunshine and fertile
soil. Ivy Plane sang “Back of the Sunset,
composed by Airs. Spencer Browne. Wattle
and poinsettia and crimson ribbons were
the decorations.
There is an old lady at Kangaroo Point
to be remembered when one talks of Gover-
nors. She saw Sir George Bowen drive
through cheering crowds in Queen-street, and
having welcomed and cheered every Governor
since that first one, she did the same for Sir
John Goodwin. For 61 years she has lived
at Kangaroo Point —that’s ever since her
marriage to R. F. Woodcraft.
St. Alban’s Chapel, Southport High School,
sheltered the wedding of Robert Greenhalgh,
Yeronga, to Gwen George, of Auchenflower.
The bridegroom is a master at the school,
and the head, Canon Dixon, tied the knot.
The bride was in ivory mariette broidered in
seed pearls and her veil was of Brussels. A
Columbine bouquet of white camellias and
narcissus was carried. Dora Greenhalgh and
Enid Gillingwater were maids in Alice-blue
taffetas appliqued with silver and pink.
The early-Victorian bonnet-hats were of
blue taffetas and silver with brilliant buckles.
The ’maids wore choker necklets of pale
pink and carried posies of pink sweet peas.
Ascot races were run in good weather and
the lawns were very green after the rain.
Mrs. Isaac Moore, Airs. W. J. Hooper and
P. J. O’Shea had tea-parties on the com-
mittee-room verandah. Mrs. Hooper was in
grey, Airs. Coldham wore navy, Airs. Stanley
Chapman was in sapphire-blue velvet and
grey fur, Airs. Ryan alt in cream, and Cecily
Cadell-Garrick in almond-green and silver-
grey.
WE STRALI A.
Perth.
This is Bernice Agar's picture of Anita
Fitz Gerald, a Perth exponent of the art of
speaking. She
teaches in the
s e e ondary
schools, and
special pupils
visit her pretty
studio at Mus-
grove’s. She
produced
“The Truth,”
“A Bill o f
Divorcement”
an d “Young
P e rson i n
Pink” for the
Repertory
Club. U n-
d auu ted b y
the cavernous
appearance of
Perth’s only
theatre, she
has filled it
ma n y times
by her success-
ful stagings of “Niobe,” “The Charm
School,” “A Little Bit of Fluff,” “Wanted —
a Husband,” “Brown Sugar” and “The Opti-
mist.” The last-named has just had a happy
week of life at His Majesty’s. Gela Ilardie
(Mrs. George Evans) cleverly impersonated
Paulette, Miss Fitz Gerald’s charming voice
made the most of Laetitia’s lines and Mrs.
J. N. Thomson’s Minty, the cook, won the
biggest laughs.
In July the Westralian bookstalls will
make room on their shelves for the feminine
petticoats of Town Talk. The little weekly
is being launched by women for women. At
a meeting held in the Mayoress’s parlor,
appointments were made and shares allotted.
Mrs. L. W. Matters. Perth’s oldest estab-
lished press-woman, has been made managing
editor. She took the first step on the Inky
Way a quarter of a century ago, when she
wrote the Woman’s Letter for Hal Cole-
batch’s weekly Argonaut. She has run
a paper of her own, the Social Kodak,
brought out a book in England, “Who
Counts?” pertaining to Australians in Lon-
don, and in the Argentine w r as editor of the
Buenos Aires weekly Observer and social
editor of her husband’s Herald.
Rachel Evans, who has given a promise
to Donald Cleland, followed in the footsteps
of her clever aunt, Mrs. Rischbeith, and
learnt a profession. Kindergarten and pri-
mary work for the little boys of Guildford
Prep. School keep her busy. Her lawyer
fiance has lately returned from a Toe H
mission in England.
TASMANIA.
Hobart.
Though our artificial silk industry may
never produce a stocking, after all, yet at
least we have started with our fur factory,
which aims to turn bunny into a national
asset. Mayor Wignall pressed the button
and set the machines going in the Sackville-
street premises while Ministers and sliare-
]), Iders and other well-wishers looked on.
The chief promoters are the Grain and Ken-
nedy brothers, T. A. Okines and Alt’ Ashbolt,
and there’s no Government subsidy.
Nancy, last unmarried daughter of the
late Dr. Harry Gibson, changed her name
at St. John’s last week. The lucky man
was G. Gillespie, of Iloneymah Station
(Q.). The bride was in white satin maro-
cain, with folds caught together by a large
diamente buckle, and the tulle veil fell from
under a close lace cap. Two wee nieces,
Belle Hinman and Juliet Gibson, and a
small page, Arthur Hinman. followed, the
maids in long straight frocks of pale-blue
velvet, worn with silver Dutch caps, and
carrying formal posies.
Conductor Glanville Bishop’s face was a
study in smiles at the reception he got at
the Orchestral Society's first concert of the
season in the Town Hall.
We’ve had “music wherever we go” lately,
the Orchestral concert being followed by the
Choral Society’s effort, when conductor G. A.
Jackson played his own Concerto in D minor.
Soloists were Lucy Atkins, Doreen Biden-
eope, G. Beaeham and Mrs. Richardson, the
fiddler.
The Natatorial Ball went swimmingly. It
was run by the Old Hobartians, whose func-
tions are always well managed. About 000
guests took the floor at the City Hall, and
a fearsome sea beast, “the Natator,” made
its appearance.
This is Mrs. Stourton, who, in 1903,
founded the first overseas branch of the
V' ictoria
League. She
was elected
president o f
the league in
1913, and in
1918 became
deputy 1i fe-
president, act-
ing as presi-
dent in the
absence of the
wife of the
Gove r nor.
Mrs. Stourton
is a very en-
thusiastic lea-
guer, and has
founded
branches all
over our
island. One of
th e league’s
many good
deeds is supplying lighthouse-keepers and
other lonely folk with reading matter.
Mrs. Stourton, Mrs. A. Cotton and Mrs.
Goddard have been appointed delegates to
the Victoria League Conference in Adelaide.
There’s to be a northern delegate also, but
she hasn’t been picked yet.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA.
Adelaide.
The opening of the Angorichina Hostel
puts a tall feather in the cap of the Tubercu-
lar Soldiers’ Aid Society, and especially in
that of its secretary, Miss E. Cleggett. Such
a hostel has been its dream ever since the
society was started five years ago, and a
gift of land in the Flinders Ranges, a Govern-
ment subsidy of £lOOO, and private subscrip-
tions that included an anonymous £lOOO have
made the dream reality. The Governor, a
keen supporter of the idea from the beginning,
went up for the opening, taking with him the
best rain the North has had for ages. He
presided the previous day at the S.P.C.A.
meeting, patted that organisation on the back
for its excellent work, and put in a timely
plea for riding-tracks round the suburbs (an
easy enough achievement with a continuous
belt of park land to make them in) where
the young idea could be taught to ride “with-
out being run down by a juggernaut of a
car.”
From England comes news of the marriage
of one-time A.D.C. Captain ITambleton to
Mrs. Douglas Mein, once of Melbourne.
Mrs. A. E. V. Richardson has gone to
London and will bring back daughter Yvonne,
now at school at Bournemouth. Mrs. S. H.
Ayers and Miss Estelle Edwards were passen-
gers by the same boat, and Mrs. Duncan
Hughes and Miss Wilma Clarke left via the
Cape a day or two later, as did Mrs. J. C.
Ross and her daughter.
The Kooyonga Golf Club has finished its
new dining-room and opened it with a dance
run by a committee of half a dozen of the
younger set. There was bridge in the lounge
and supper in the old dining-room: proceeds
for the new room’s furnishings. There was
dancing on the same night at the Liberal
Club Hall, where the “Wilderness” old pupils
had their annual dance, and in the Brookman
Hall, further down North-terrace, where
School of Mines students had theirs. For
the last there was a regular rainbow of ribbons
looped across the ceiling, stiffening on the walls
to panels—purple and yellow and scarlet
and blue —with ruby-sliaded lights and the
inevitable balloons.
The Moulden lady hostessed a ball at Cla-
ridge’s (London) for the coming-out of her
three daughters, and preceded it by a dinner.
The table decorations bent themselves into a
map of Australia. The guests included Lady
Burnham and Sir Edward Wallington.
The Conservatorium Opera Class, not yet
three years old. has given a couple more
operas—“ The Family Party” and “Prince
Ferelon” —to prove its own keenness and
Clive Carey’s flair for teaching.


Amusements.
EMPIRE THEATRE,
Railway Square, adjoining Saunders’ Corner,
in Quay Street, Sydney.
Rufe Naylor lias the honor to present
2/6 “SUNNY” 5/6
(By arrangement with Chas. Dillingham, N.Y.)
PLAYING TO CAPACITY NIGHTLY.
, SUNNX” commences at 7.45 sharp. Orchestral
items from 7.30.
Reserves at Theatre (M.A. 1000), Nicholson’s
Paling s, Hotel Australia, Usher’s, Carlton, Samuel’s.
r Matinfies Wednesday and Saturday at 2.
Theatre Box Office Hours: 9 to 3, 4 to 9.
S IJ) N B Y’s CHIEF THEATRES.
J. C. WILLTAM.SON, LTD., present
HER MAJESTY’S:
MADAME POMPADOUR.
CRITERION: THE GHOST TRAIN.
ROYAL: THE GREEN HAT.
PALACE: CRADLE SNATCHERS.
S T - JAMES THEATRE, SYDNEY.
(By arrangement with Sir Benjamin and
John Fuller.)
THE SHEIK.
file Play, not the Picture.
NIGHTLY at 8.
Matinees Wednesday and Saturday, 2.15.
Plan at Nicholson’s and Theatre.
PULLERS’ THEATRE, SYDNEY.
Twice Daily, 2.30 and 8.
STIFFY AND MO.
RICKARDS’ TIVOLI THEATRES
Lessees: Harry Rickards' Tivoli Theatres, Ltd.
MELBOURNE and SYDNEY.
TWICE EVERY DAY—2.3O and 8.
CELEItIUTY VAUDEVILLE.
The World’s Best.
1" OW N HAL L, SYDN E Y.
IGNAZ FRIEDMAN,
‘ The Colossus of the Pianoforte.”
SERIES OF MEMORABLE CONCERTS,
TO-NIGHT (Thursday), JUNE 23, and Next Saturday.
Box Plan at Nicholson’s
Direction E. ,T. Carroll.
J.
c. XV 1L L
MELBOURNE
IA M SON, LTD.,
ATTRACTIONS.
HIS MAJESTY’S: ROSE MARIE.
KING’S THEATRE:
LITTLE MARY.
THEATRE ROYAL: THE RINGER.
PRINCESS THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
COMMENCING SATURDAY NEXT, at the Matinee,
the Eminent actress, MURIEL STARR, in a new
version of the world-famed play,
EAST LYNNE.
Box Plan at Glen’s.
ATHEX .E U M THEA T R i;
MELBOURNE.
Proprietor: Frank Talbot Pty., Ltd.
Lessee: E. .T. Carroll.
EVERY EVENING AT 8.
The Uproariously Funm- Comedy
ELIZA COMES TO STAY.
Direction E. .T. Carroll, by arrangement with
Richard White and Eric Edgley.
Plan at Allan’s.
N K ' V BIJOU THEATRE, MELBOURNE
Tvvfco Daily, 2.30 and 8.
GEORGE WARD TIEXXE CO.
Popular Prices. Plan G en . 3251.
pALACE THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
EVERY EVENING AT 8.
CARTER THE GREAT.
The Monarch of Magic, Mystery and Mirth.
Box Plan at Glen’s.
|y| AJESTIC THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
PAULINE FREDERICK
in
JOSSELYN’-S WIFE.
Box Plan at Allan’s & Theatre. ’Phone 7076 & 7790.
H° Y T’S I) E LUXE THEATRE,
MELBOURNE.
CHARLIE MURRAY and CHESTER CONKLIN in
McFA DDEN’S flats.
A I,so
MARGUERITE DE LA MONTE in
SACRIFICE.
Prices as usual.
T H E AI.L A N XV ILIUE SHAI
1 SPEAREAN PRODUCTIONS
QUEENSLAND TOUR: Warwick, June 23
N.S.M.—Armidale, June 25 to 27.
.. , Sydney Manager: J. V. De Batvn.
Head Office: Pulsford’s Chambers, 178 Oastlerea-h <
Cable and Telegraphic Address: “Othello,” Svdnt
G.P.O. Box 2229 LL.
Missing Friend.
(/KRISTIE. —Tf JOHN MITCHELL CHRISTIE (son
of the late Detective-Inspector Christie, of Mel-
bourne, Victoria), who was last heard of in New
) ork, U.S.A., about the year 1908, will communicate
witli The Equity Trustees Co., Ltd., 85 Queen Street '
Melbourne, Victoria, he will hear of something
to his advantage. &
F. AY., son of William Rat-
clifte AX oodbine, or any person knowing
his death or whereabouts, please advise Public
I rustee. Sydney.
W V !' S ,V. X - CHARLOTTE A., daughter of
XX llliam Katcliffe XX oodbine, or anv
person knowing her death or whereabouts
please advise Public Trustee, Sydney.
FOR
ARCHITECTS, ARTISTS, DESIGNERS,
DRAUGHTSMEN & OFFICE USE.
>
: : :
m
BRITISH
made
Perfection
RUBBER
you are, I bring all the book
stores of Sydney to your finger-tips.
In regard to your wants concerning new or
second-hand books write to FRANK ROND.
Eox 4, Kensington P. 0., Sydney.
v |seline
Vaseline
TRADE MARK
PETROLEUM JELLY
FOR MINOR GUTS
Wash under running water,
and apply “Vaseline” Jelly.
Helps nature to heal, helps
prevent scars. Soothing,
pleasant, entirely safe.
Look for the Trade Mark " Vaseline”
It is your protection
Chesebrougli Mfg. Co., Cons’d
New York London Montreal
RUPTURE.
A FREE TRIAL.
J O* * re troubled with the complaint, write ui and
Ben< * y° u our catalogue, fully describing our
PATENT AIR CUSHION APPLIANCE.
this appliance does away with all cumbersome
springs, giving a feeling of ease and comfort from the
first day s use. ft is the most scientific appliance vet
invented for this complaint. It will hold a rupture
firmly and comfortably under all conditions.
To prove what we state
WE OFFER TO SEND IT TO YOU
ON A FREE TRIAL.
If It la net satisfactory we do not expect you lo keep
it, and the trial costs you nothing. It is suitable for
men, women and children, and the price is within
the reach of all.
ILLUSTRATED CATALOGUE
posted free anywhere.
THE WINSLOW CO.
104 Queen Street, Melbourne, Vic.
Legal Notice.
NIOTICE is hereby given that ANNIE
WINTER of Kandy Ceylon has in-
stituted an action No. 34950 in the District
court of Kandy Ceylon for a dissolution of
her marriage with WILLIAM EDWARD
DALY WINTER presently of Townsville
\\ owan Queensland Australia and for the
custody of children and for the recovery of
costs of suit on the ground of malicious deser-
tion since the year 1924 AND it is further
; notified that unless the said William Edward
! Daly Winter do appear before this Court
within sixty (60) days from the date of
publication of this notice and take necessary
steps to defend the said action the same
will be heard and determined in his absence.
By order of Court.
(S’d) P. MORTIMER.
Secretary.
District Court, Kandy, Ceylon,
20th March, 1927.
TN THE MATTER OF THE COMPANIES ACTS
1863 to 1919 and in the Matter of David
Peter Thomas and Ambrose John Madden, Merchants
trading under the style or firm of Thomas and
Madden at Cooktown, Port Douglas and Cairns.
Notice is hereby given that the creditors of the
abovenamed company are required, on or before the
ninth day of July, 1927, to send their names and
addresses, and the particulars of. their debts or
claims, and the names and addresses of their
Solicitors, if any, to The Public Curator of Queens-
land, the liquidator of the said company, and, if
so required by notice in writing from the said
liquidator, are by their Solicitors to come in and
prove their said debts or claims at such time and
place as shall be specified in such notice, or in
default thereof they will be excluded from the
benefit of any distribution made before such debts
are proved.
F. IV. MOLE,
Public Curator.
Dated this ninth day of June, 1927.
h
21/- Men’s
Pullovers for
13/6
at Murdoch's Rebuilding Sale.
Don’t miss this! Exclusive Pullovers,
Pure Wool, Smartest of Colored
designs.
Postage paid to Your Door.
Call or write to Desk R. Ask for Catalogue
MURDOCH’S IN PARK ST. LTD., SYDNEY
Answers to Correspondents.
Ao notice (except of a hostile character) will be
taken of communications insufficiently stamped.
Same and address must appear on the MS. No
liability is undertaken re contributions volun-
tarily submitted: and no MS. will be returned
unless stamps accompany.
Horton 8.. Ellimay, K.A. J., Fred O.:
Failed at the second reading. ...C.W.: Read it again ;
u-e didn’t say that these second mortgages would help
to solve the problem.... One of the Deputation: The
matter is now sub judice .... Bert B.: Far too long.
....Whyte L.: “Mosquito's” good finish nearly saved
it. . . .G.H.: We have read your poem about putting up
a tent. You take 25 verses to do it. Thank Heaven
it wasn’t a marquee. .. .Maud F.M.: But you can’t,
have that pen-name; it has long been taken. You’ve
got humor; go on writing in order to gain more
facility... .V.M.S.: No use for translations....
•T.P.C.: Very poor verse... .R.C.: You can’t use the
i word “origin” as if the gin in it is an alcoholic
stimulant. . . .Frank A.: Detailed description (rhymed)
of how you collect your food in a cafeteria doesn’t
give us an appetite. . . .W.S.H.: Why all the preamble?
The story starts in the middle of your screed. . . . M.G.:
Terrible. . . .G.B.A. ;■ We don’t object to a verse about
a rose —if it's done as Waller did his “Go, Lovely
Rose”.... Final: Pale humor. .. .J. 8.: “The wisky
ran low?” So there wasn’t room for an “h” in it?.. ..
Nana W.: Nearly E.E. (East Syd.) : The third
stanza is out of plumb with the others.... Wanderer:
It’s “Paddy the Next Best Thing” done in an Aus-
tralian setting—and not badly done. But learn to
get your own themes and to condense.... J.A.K.:
The Judge deserves a knock, but the stone you throw
is too rough.... Joseph B.: Too many impossibili-
ties have to happen to make it possible V.1.L.:
Misses the mark this time Margaret G.: Slight.
... .Sonnies: Immature, but shows promise. .. .Neil
J.: “Moon Haze” has dreadfully prosaic lapses....
R.G.W.: Come to think of it, it would be a darn
sight more marvellous if j-ou two, having learnt to
love one another, had never met. ..,Les M.: The
! whisper of the frail idea can hardly be heard in
I the clang of those mighty words.... Mary P.: To
j copy your style, your a-versifying is a-going back
a-hurrying. .. . G.P.M.: After struggling to find out
what you mean, we decided you don't mean anything.
.. . .Geo L.: “Volcano” is a mere lava of words... .
P.P.P.: What lias Byron done to you that you should
write that about him?... .Cobber M.: Presume that
“the river was in spats” in compliment to Bruce.. . .
Chas. H.: You don’t make enough of the real story.
.. . .8.8. A.: After they had been married a year a
baby arrived. Well, that isn’t a sufficiently iinusua l
happening, as yet, to turn into a story.... Geo R. :
The corpse makes very dead verse.... W.J.C.:
Dreadfully unpoetical statement of facts. .. .Wand
B.: Mere descriptive stuff in uneven verses.... Betty
L.: Gave us no thrill. . . .Cam D. : Why keep on throw-
ing “dost” in our eyes?... .Peter II.: The lullaby is
full of rough stones. Is that your idea of rocking
us to sleep?. . . .J.C. (Selwyn) : We like your style:
Behold the Bah black blight Satan’s apes silent
satellites,
Fueled and fanned the Hell where perished cattle
fell.
Masked men of white fouled all moral right,
Bleaching bones and brandings tell loathsome
sights as well.
Baby bovines cry for mothers dead,and bogged to
die.
From near and far invites feathers and a tar,
V here visions haunt and dim the human eye
There State depraved remnants save deport vour
Satan Bah.
....R.11.R.: Busy editors have no time to think
like that; and the main idea is over-used. .. ..T.11.5. :
That fearful ending was the end of you. .. .G.F.C.:
Doesn’t fit anywhere J.W.H.M.: Heaven above is
a very easy rhyme for love; it spoils a verse that
might have had a chance... .L.T. (Hastings, M.L.) :
Don’t expect the drawings by the child of five will be
much good, unless he (or she) is a miracle. We
have to reject drawings by children of 50... .N.S.M.:
Bill's burglar is dull.. ..A.G. (Adel.): Probably tlie
kookaburra’s suspicion of the “two-legged race of
men” was justified. It is only the four-legged race
of nian that can be completely trusted. .. .M.D.
(Dannevirke) : The story itself is not bad,* but the
telling reminds us that Dannevirke’s timber is not
yet cut out....J.D.MeD.: Mere jape.. . .A.E.W.: Put
to sleep. .. .John P.: Flounder story flounders....
Gwen A. 8.: Buccaneers walked the plank and went
plunk... .C.A.L.: Lamenting verses are too much in
a tear-worn groove H.G.L.: Wearisome J.G.R.:
j Verse isn’t up to the sentiment. .. .W.L. : The
folly of Archie is feeble humor. .. .P.M.B. : You
clothe your thoughts in rags of poetry.... ALMcL.:
“Memory’s Shrine” holds nothing suitable... .8.L.D.:
“But if our skeins weren’t wove, we would not know”
is a horrible example of a bad ending L.F.R.:
You say it is an “Original Poem.” We’ll admit it's
original.... C.L.C.: You’ve made your- sea of wood.
.. . ..Teannie S. B.: Lamentable... .Olive Try •
Amateurish Lucy H.: Good, but for the distorted
image—the march of the forests. It is the winds
that do the attacking E.M.H.: Absence of rhvme
accentuates the dreariness D.C. (Balook) : Fear
julh justified. Better —and more condensed—
thought is required....A.L.C.: Not badly told, but
a commonplace love story D.A.L.: Although the
course of true love always seems to smoodge, the
smoodge is mere padding for a tale 0.’.T.F.:
“Shearing” nearly got our wool off Roger II.:
A mere storm in a teacup.... Astor: Terrible
Tenby: The verse is dull advice. Take the volume
you mention to Lyster Ornisby, Hunter-street, Sydney.
. ...C.L.P.: Your piteous appeal gets space:—
Think! Think! Thou gluttonising brute,
Who eats until his rich foods cloy,
Think of the poor lad, destitute,
Who only eats a saveloy!
Think! 1 hink, as in thy bed thou lies,
Of that poor boy. When day is done
Into the darkling park he hies.
To sleep ’heath Hbkald, News'or Sun.
. ...M.L.L.: Too didactic Violet Iv.: You’re an
imperious lady : but you can’t alter the pronuncia-
tion of words' simply to get easy rhymes,.. .Tom M.:
Wish you’d take more pains, instead of giving them
to us.. . .Maud F.M.: It is crude, but shows possi-
bilities... .G.R.M.: Of the making of brooks
(by poets) there is no end, but this is the first en-
countered by us that “meandered up the hill, and
round about the dale” J.L.C.: “One More’ Un-
fortunate” has gone to its death.
T<> ARTISTIC (AND INARTISTIC)
CORRESPONDENTS.
E.H.: No chance of a cheque for that. .. . E.T.:
The light of the harem was extinguished. .. .T.L.P.:
Linework too delicate for reproduction D.P.:
Wooden figures apparently infested with white ants.'
. . ..R.D.U.: on must have got your lessons from
a pennv-in- the-slot machine... .F.G.M.: The time
Doris wastes on her complexion is nothing to the
time you waste on art E.E.K.: Very tame....
M.C.: Silhouette of Dave stropping razor on the
seat of his pants dumped K.S.: Have heard it
before. .. .'VY.H.tS.: Vour parcel ranges from verv
poor to just below the average. ... 11. W.: Flapper,
dog (oi is it, a pig?) and violet ink all annoyed
u 5.... E. J.: Your window curtains look like corru-
gated iron.
THE INKY WAY.
“Peter A.": What is the longest period
that a Bulletin reader has without a single
break bought his Bulletin from the same
shop? I am in the competition—my record
is 27 years.
“lan C.”: While no expense is being
spared to make Vic. M’s.P. comfortable in
their regained home in Spring-street, press
facilities are being cut down. The side
galleries in the Assembly chamber erected
by the Commonwealth have been removed,
and writing-room accommodation is scanty.
The Labor Ministry is not likely to improve
things, but if Alec Peacock should become
Speaker an appeal to him is pretty certain
to he effective.
"Orongo”: Most newspaper men can re-
call exasperating questions asked over the
‘phone during the busiest time of the day.
My temper-test came one day about 2.30, in
the subs’ room of an afternoon paper. The
dear old lady begged to be told if it rained
on the morning of Christmas Pay three
years ago!
“Strict Veg.”: “Australio: Lando Raj
Popup," by: kauri L.uiho and A. Delsudo,
is shortly to be published in Germany. It
is the first book in Esperanto written about
this country. A Finnish journalist who
gave us the 6n,ce-over recently has collabo-
rated in the work with Maurice Hyde, the
enthusiastic Australian Esperantist who
hides his identity behind the pen-name Del-
sudo.
The man who has the job of sorting out
tin; pile of inquiries that come to the Ser-
vice Department begins to think The Bul-
letin is a pretty quick traveller. The first
announcement about the Service Depart-
ment was made no earlier than March ; yet in
the past week —the middle of June—requests
for service of one sort or another came from
Kuala Lumpur (Malay Peninsula), Edin-
burgh (Scotland), Seattle (U.S.A.). Okana-
gan (Canada), and two each from India
and Fiji.
“C.Q.”: The field for beauty competitions
is getting constricted. but Melbourne
Morning Post reckons it has struck a new
idea in launching a search for Victoria's
most beautiful waitress. Melbourne’s fre-
quenters of restaurants aren't very thrilled
about if. The city's cafes are so crowded
at the mid-day crib-time that the average
male feeder is too busy with baser wants
to note the quality of the tea-llebe’s curves
and graces, and the lady herself is generally
too hustled to be able to display them to
advantage. A competition to discover the
waitress who slops the least fluid into the
saucer and never forgets that mustard goes
with ham would be more generally appreci-
ated.
From W. 11. Leighton Bailey (Worthing,
Eng.): “Mac" and “Tenakohe" state (B.
17 and 31/3/’27) that I was not the founder
of the Sydney Sunday Times. These state-
ments give me, at the age of 90, a severe
shock, for I thought everyone in Australia
knew that I was the pioneer of Sunday jour-
nalism in that country and the founder of the
Sydney Sunday Times. I spent my life's
savings in the project, and no one knows
what I went through. Notwithstanding all
the formidable opposition, I succeeded in
establishing the first Sunday paper in Syd-
ney. The late Edward Ellis had nothing
whatever to do with the foundation of the
paper. I wanted an editor entirely out of
the running with regard to New- South Wales
politics. I asked George Darrell if he knew
anyone in Melbourne who could carry out the
policy I had in mind, and he recommended
Ellis, to whom I subsequently gave the job at
a salary of £5 per week. But I was the sole
founder and owner of the Sunday Times and
its managing editor, and dictated to Ellis the
policy I wished carried out.
“J. 8.": Sydney journalists of all creeds
retain kindly memories of Cardinal Moran,
whose statue is to go up outside St. Mary's
Cathedral when it is completed, for no pre-
late has ever supplied them with better copy.
It was a rare day when the readers of tin
daily papers didn't get something special to
flavor their breakfast after a few remarks
from his Eminence, particularly if there was
an election in the offing. Nothing pleased
the Cardinal better than to be interviewed
on a burning topic of the hour, but it was
not always easy to get past the barriers.
“Your Eminence,’’ I said to him on one
occasion, “there are times wdien I must see
you or become very unpopular with my
editor, so if I bring a shotgun with me in
future to clear the course I hope you'll
understand that no ill-will is intended."
Tile Cardinal laughed softly, in the happy
manner he had of enjoying a joke with his
whole body, and after that it wasn’t so diffi-
cult: to obtain ingress. And for all the
violence of his frequent opinions on non-
sectarian matters, the average citizen, always
tolerant where the humor is apparent, would
grin and chuckle as he remarked to his
neighbor, “Well, dash me if the old Cardinal
isn’t a corker!”
THE WAR OF WORDS.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“Mr. B. made a fierce verbal attack on thi
Premier.” —Daily paper.
Now when I meet my enemies
I count it true economy
To pound them with periphrases
And maul them with metonymy;
I recognise that punishment
Is something they are better for,
And so with murderous inteut
I mince them with a metaphor.
Minutely I investigate
Their corporal geography,
Their vitals then I penetrate
With poisoned lexicography;
With little effort learning just
Where brains and lungs and bowels are,
More deadly than a dagger-thrust
My consonants and vowels are.
Since every man, as Byron knew,
By force of words is killable,
I riddle any foeman through
With piercing polysyllable;
From Roget deeply do I drink
To feed my spleen maleficent;
And this is War. But do you think
It truly is magnificent?
N.S.W.
MCBOYD.


MAGAZINE
Writers and Artists.
Kill Bowyang’s Magazine, to be pub-
lished in July, invites short, humorous
bush storiettes (not exceeding: 1000
words), paragraphs, verse and black-and-
white sketches from Australian writers
and artists.
Only humorous bush material required.
Highest payments made for everything
accepted.
Published quarterly. Annual sub-
scription, 4/6 post paid.
Address all communications to:
“Bill Bowyang’s Magazine,”
P.O. Box 164,
Bowen, North Queensland.
BANJO-
m
Uvular
ropuiar
8 Strincf
C Models
fa
m
The “GEM”
in Walnut, finished back and sides, nickel-
plated brackets and screws, walnut neck, perfect
fitting, best machine head.
Complete in Case. Price
(Freight Free)
Other Models from 63 1- to £lO
Descriptive Ca'alogue on application
75/-
OBTAINABLE FROM ANY MUSIC.DEALER.
OR DIRECT FROM
1
ĥ
When orde rinq plearc mention ifur pother.
A ROYAL
SMOKEI
All Good
Hotels and
Tobacconists
6d
each.
25 Cigars,
12/6
50, 23 9
/ 100,46/-
J Post paid to
/ any address.
/ Sampler Box
/ containing two
/ cigars, Is. Post
free.
Craig gAitken
6548 George Street,
Sydney,
Distributors for Club
Reil Cigar Factory.
Just Published!
Z&Oam-
SONG FOLIO
No. 3
Containing
102 Popular Songs
Including:
Demon King Marks
Skipper's Flag Bam
1 Love You Truly • • Carrie Jacobs Bond
Just a Wearying for You „
La Paloma (The Dove) ■ Yradier
Volga Boat Song -
and
Abe, Abe, Abe My Boy
Abide With Me
After the Ball
Ah, Little Girl Don’t You Cry
Ah! So Pure
Alas! Those Chimes
All through the Night
Aloha Oe (Fa ewell to Thee)
Am I not Fondly Thine Own
Au Clair de la Lune (Trilby)
Aura Lee
Back to Croajingolong
Bonnie Banks o’ Loch Lomond
Bonnie M ry of Argyle
Bridal Chorus (“Lohengrin”)
By the Big Blue Billabong
Carry Me back to old Virginny
Chime Again, Beautiful Bells
Cleansing Fires (Gabriel)
Clementine
Consider the Lilies
Darling Nelly Gray
Dear When I Look
Ensanguined and Lurid
(“Lucia”)
Even Bravest Heart May
Swell (“Faust”)
Every Flower (“Rigoletto ”)
Farewell
Feather Your Nest
Gaily the Troubadour
Genevieve (Bayley)
Gentle Maiden
(“ Sonnambula ”)
Gipsy Song (“Bohemian Girl”)
Glory Song
Go Down, Moses (Spiritual)
Habanera (“Carmen”)
Hail to the Happy Bridal Day
(“ Lucia ”)
Happy are We Tonight
Happy be Thy Dreams
Hark the Jingle Bells
Hen Convention
Here’s a Health unto His
Majesty
Here’s to the Maiden
Heroes of the Dardanelles
He’s a Jo ly Good Fellow
I Love Thee
I’m Rolling Thro’ an
Unfriendly World (Spiritual)
In the Time of Roses
I want to be Ready (Spiritual)
John Brown’s Body
John Peel
Just a Wee Deoch.an.doris
(Lauder)
King’s Prayer (“ Lohengrin ”)
La Golondrina (The Swallow)
Lass With the Delicate Air
Lead, Kindly Light (Sandou)
Let Me Gaze (“ Faust ”)
Life's Dream is O'er
Listen to the Mocking Bird
Londonderry Air (My Gentle
Harp)
Lovely Flowers I Pray
(“Faust”)
Many Happy Returns of the
Day
Miner's Dream of Home
My Pretty Jane
My Task (Ashford)
Nellie Was a Lady
Nobody Knows the Trouble
I See (Spiritual)
Of That Dark Scaffold
Old Log Cabin in the Dell
On the Banks of Allan Water
On Yonder Rock Reclining
(Auber)
Over the Garden Wall
Pilgrim's Chorus
(“ Tannhauser ”)
Prayer (“ Der Freischutz")
Rocked in the Cradle of the
Deep
Rose of No Man's Land
Sally in Our Alley
Solut Demeure (“Faust”)
Scenes that are brightest
(“ Maritana ”)
Serenade (Schubert)
Ship I Love
Soldiers' Chorus (“Faust”)
Solveig's Song (Greig)
Song that Reached My Heart
Sun of My Soul
Swing Low Sweet Chariot
(Spiritual)
Then You'll Remember Me
There is a Joy in Evr'y Day
Thou Hast Spread Thy Wings
(“ Lucia ”)
Trilby's Song (Ben Bolt)
Wait for the Waggon
When Song is Sweet
(Sans>Souci)
When We’re Together
White Wings They never
Grow Weary
Who's dat Calling So Sweet
Willow Song (Sullivan)
Will Ye No Come Back Again
Woman is Fickle
(La Donne Mobile)
Ye Banks and Braes
Price <£§/* posted 4/6
ALL MUSIC SELLERS, or
" Melbourne, Sydney, Bendigo, Adelaide
FOR PERFECT
Radio
B
IP*
WITH
The
*4
Milliard
THE •MASTER. ♦ VALVE
If any illustration in “The Bulletin” takes your
fancy, write to the Manager, who will quote you price
for the original.
MICK SIMMONS’
Dependable
Sporting Goods.
Recognised Standard
Quality,
Keenest Possible Values
Special Beginners’
GOLF SETS
Comprising Driver.
Mashie, Mid Iron, Putter,
two 3/6 Quality Golf
Balls, Tan Canvas Bag
with leather fittings and
copy of latest rules.
SPECIALLY ,
PRICED AT.. OU/-
Similar Set, complete with
two 2/6 Quality Golf
Balls.
SPECIALLY /C
PRICED AT .. 4//D
&
COMMANDS ATTENTION NOT
ONLY IN PRICE, BUT ALSO FOR,
ITS FINE CRAFTSMANSHIP.
The Lightning” Racket
Priced at .... 50 /-
Every material embodied in its construc-
tion lias been specially selected, with the
result that it will stand
up to the hardest usage.
The Frame is of Eng-
lish Ash, with con-
cave throat and
specially rein-
forced shoulders ;
strung wi t h
dependable Eng-
lish gut.
m
SS}
The
“Lightning”
Frame carries a full
Six (6) Months’
Guarantee.
Exclusively distributed by
Mick Simmons.
A Superb Little Rifle.
The Improved “Maine
.22 Calibre, fitted with elevating rear
sight; for .22 short, long, or long rifle
cartridges. It can be taken apart by
simply unscrewing the thumb-screw
underneath the forearm. The action is
of the safety-bolt type. Round barrel,
21in. long, bored and rifled with the
same care as the military weapon, and
guaranteed accurate; weight
about 3ilb. PRICE
Postage:
N.S.W., 1/9; other States, 3/2.
25/.
The “Teddy” Stainless
English Hunting Knife
3
*{'?•«* *'W«!
"'Teddy
11
An exceptionally well-ground knife. Ideal
for sticking, skinning, cleaning, slicing,
etc.: handle of bakelite, leather and
brass, aluminium tip, with •% A/n
sheath. 4|-in Blade 11/'O
(Postage fid.)
Illustrated Sporting Catalogues, post
free on request.
(Carriage Paid except where otherwise
specified.)
Mick Simmons, Ltd.
“The World’s Greatest Sports
Store,’’
Headquarters: 720 HAYMARKET,
SYDNEY.
Branches:
City, Suburbs, Newcastle, Brisbane, j


The Australian Provincial Assurance Association Limited
HEAD OFFICE: 77 KING STREET, SYDNEY.
Directors: Messrs. EDMUND S. W. PAUL (Chairman), ALEX. KING, Dr. E. MORRIS HUMPHERY, Senator J. D. MILLEN, and WM. NORTHAM.
Total Assets exceed. . .. .. £1,724,000
BRANCHES: Melbourne, Brisbane, Adelaide, Perth, Hobart NEW ZEALAND: Wellington, Auckland, Christchurch, Dunedin.
SOME REASONS WHY YOU SHOULD INSURE WITH THE A.P.A.:
(1) Because in the event of total disablement for life all future premiums
will be paid by the Association and no deduction made from policy or
bonuses.
(2) Hospital Benefits are given with every Life Policy applicable to public
and private hospitals, varying in amount according to the sum assured
and no deduction made from policy or bonuses.
(3) In the event of loss of eye or limb through accident, a quarter of the
sum assured will be paid forthwith, and the premium reduced propor*
tionately.
(4) PERSONAL ACCIDENT and Combined Benefit Policies provide for
almost every contingency.
NO EXTRA PREMIUM IS CHARGED FOR THESE BENEFITS:
Probate, Children’s Education and Finance Policies specialised.
Applications for Agencies invited from men of integrity.
GKO. PEACOCK, F.C.1.5., Secretary.
T. W. RAPLEY, General Manager.
SUNDRY SHOWS.
SYDNEY SHOWS FOIt COMING WEEK.
Her Majesty’s “Madame Pompadour”
Criterion “The Ghost Train”
Boyal “The Green Hat”
Palace “Cradle Snatchers”
St. James “The Sheik”
Empire “Sunny”
Fullers’ Vaudeville
*™ IVOLI Vaudeville
Town Hall Ignaz Friedman
MELBOURNE SHOWS FOB COMING WEEK.
His Majesty’s “Rose Marie”
King’s “Little Mary”
Boyal “The Ringer”
Princess “East Lynne”
Athenaeum “Eliza Comes to Stay”
Palace Carter the Great
Tivoli ~... Vaudeville
Buod Vaudeville
Majestic Moving Pictures
Hoyt’s Moving Pictures
.
That group of Sydney playgoers which
regularly follows the activities of the little
Players’ Club flocked to St. James’s Hall last
Friday and Saturday evening to view Gals-
worthy’s “The Silver Box.” The article in
question is a cigarette-case, stolen more in
pique than from any baser motive by a young
laborer who has been admitted to the house
of a wealthy Liberal M.P. by the son in the
course of a drunken spree. The thief is
arrested along with his innocent wife, who is
employed at the house as a charwoman. But
while the son of the house, whose sense of
humor has been displayed by the pilfering of
a demi-mondaine’s purse earlier in the night,
escapes any unpleasant consequences, there
is no such luck for the pair who are lower
in the social scale; the wife is acquitted, but
the husband gets a month —the old axiom
that there is one law for the rich and another
for the poor being thereby solidly re-estab-
lished. As Jones, the purloiner of the box,
J. A. Robertson was the outstanding success
of the evening, and Vera Keogh played the
part of the wife tellingly. Marcia Reardon
(Mrs. Bartliwick) shrilled and shrieked more
than her role warranted, and H. li. Howell
carried the irresolution of the son beyond the
author’s intention. When he wasn’t conduct-
ing a duct with the prompter, Francis Jack-
son (John Bartliwick) was excellent as the
well-meaning Liberal M.P. One-lialf of the
cast suffered from obvious under-rehearsal
of their parts.
The success of the matinee performance
of “The Green Hat,” unexpected after a cold
reception by Melbourne audiences, has led to
a sudden reshuffle in the Williamson theatres
of Sydney. “Tip Toes” finished last night
(Wednesday) and has stolen away to Bris-
bane ; “Madame Pompadour” brings her ele-
gance and charm to Her Majesty’s in its
place, and Judith Anderson is to sport her
verdant headgear at the Royal—-the last of
the matinees were played in the same house.
“The Ghost Train” is still steaming into
the Criterion with its cargo of mystery, and
“Cradle Snatchers” continues to maintain
big audiences at the Palace in a merry mood.
Ahmed Ben Hassan keeps his well-laun-
dered condition at Sydney St. James Theatre
in noble comparison to the villainous Omair,
who looks much too lifelike to be the mere
creation of a romantic woman’s imagination.
“The Sheik” is only allowed a few weeks
to set feminine hearts a-beating at the Fuller
show-house, after which the vivid desert
sandstorm will blow itself to exhaustion in
Melbourne. “Sunny” will cease to beam at
the Empire after Saturday of next week,
and the management is spreading itself for
the last night. A show which has been
viewed by over 300,000 people naturally ex-
pects a good send-off. On July 10 “The
Student Prince” is to be introduced to the
Empire; the management’s announcement of
eight imported artists suggests that the Aus-
tralian actbrs are to get more stage-space
than in “Sunny.” “Getting Gertie’s Garter,”
with Rose Duggan in the place of Gertie
Cremer, will laugh itself into the seventh
week on Saturday night. Nobody will grudge
Frank Neil the luck that has smiled upon
his enterprises.
* * *
Efrem Zimbalist, who lingered in M.L. to
travel by the n.orangi, which brought his
wife, Madame Alma Gluck, from Vancouver,
is to loose the magic of his violin at the
Sydney Town Hall on Saturday week (July
2). His introduction represents the first
venture of the new Concert Tours Ltd. man-
agement ; already it has a booked programme
extending over a couple of years. Next Satur-
day Alexander Watson will infuse some
variety into the entertainment bill of fare
with , the first of a series of recitals at the
King’s Hall. The elocutionist’s leading item
for the first night is Barrie’s “The Little
Minister.”
* ❖ ijc
Alec Kellaway, pleading “After I Say I’m
Sorry” to each of the six girls appropriately
dubbed “the Radio Six” by the management,
is one of the tuneful items in this week’s
reassortment at Fuller’s, where Stiffy and
Mo have become jockeys for one week only.
Mo s habit of running into College-street for
verv doubtful humor is deplorable. The
hueven Wonders ’ are a band of juvenile
acrobats and somersaulters. The turn is full
of pep and brightness. The Charleston Sym-
phony Band has made itself popular; the
accent of some of its non-Yankee members
suggests a firm conviction that nobody can
be a first-class jazz musician unless he speaks
through his nose.
* * *
Sydney Tivoli has added to the revenues by
staging a wood-chopping act. The flying
chips work up a good deal of excitement in
the audience, and the turn is a popular one.
Alexander Carr does well in his sketch of the
Jew who has chained himself to the wisdom
of an obscure philosopher named Tobblinzky,
the amusing Jovers are as entertaining as
ever, and that really capital item, Belmont’s
Canary Opera, is again on the bill.
** * *
He was a Barcelona knut, a raffish Span-
ish ruler, but he loved the gentler sex; no
fair adventure he refused, but always liked
to be amused —a Spanish gay Lord Quex!
His fancy on a nice girl fell, but she, of
cafe life the belle, preferred a sailor gay
whose ship had got to sail that night, and
since he failed to note the flight of Time
DE-MOBBED AGAIN.
"Evidence given at the Film Inquiry shows that ‘The Big Parade’ and ‘We’re in the Navy Now,’
American army and navy films, are being enthusiastically screened in Australian theatres, while ‘Ypres
Zeebrugge’ and other British films cannot get a show.”
AUSTRALIAN MOVIE MAGNATE: “Nothin’ doin’ You two ain’t got no sex-appeal. All
you guys is fit for is winnin’ wars.”
ho had to stay. The Spanish Governor pur-
sued Valencia in manner rude till she was
full of fears; but when he would not he
denied she cried and cried and cried and
cried, an avalanche of tears! “O take this
waterspout away!” exclaimed the lord, no
longer gay, “turn off those tears on tap!”
And so Mae Murray wept and wept; then to
the arms she gladly leapt of her nice sailor
chap! This gay picture, sumptuously set,
is at the Strand and Hoyt’s.
❖ * * if
In “Sacrifice,” a girl married to a young
American soldier learns, after her husband
has disappeared into the war maelstrom, that
it was no chaplain who united them, but a
deserter, masquerading as a priest. Her
husband volunteers on a forlorn hope; the
last seen of him is his prone body lit by
shell-bursts. After the war every effort to
discover him fails; but ultimately his identi-
fication badge is found. Meantime the un-
married mother, with her child, is driven
from home by her stern father. Then comes
the burial of “The Unknown Soldier - ’ at
Washington. The girl in desperation per-
suades a priest to allow her to go through
the form of marriage without the bridegroom.
At this stage the confirmed movie-patron
expects to see the missing husband appear
at the altar; but for once Hollywood has
avoided the obvious. The ceremony of mar-
riage is gone through to the end without the
bridegroom, but there is a subtle suggestion
that “The Unknown Soldier” at the moment
being buried at Washington might quite
conceivably have been the girl’s husband.
This impressive and beautiful drama may be
seen at the Piccadilly.
** # *
Two shows in Sydney:—
Jesse Jewhurst Hilder died at the age of 34 ; and
it is possible that his untimely passing has given
him a pre-eminence amongst water-colorists which is
not quite fair to others. Viewed in the mass, as
at the exhibition which has been in progress at
Farmer’s Gallery, there is an impression that his
work lacked enterprising adventures. Nevertheless,
the individual beauty and craftsmanship of the pictures
prevent aay sense of monotony; and the exhibition
is certainly a comprehensive one, including Hilder’s
first water-color, a sea-coast picture, and work which
displays his progress to the point where it was
lamentably cut off. The trustees of the Melbourne
National Gallery have been so impressed that they
have expended 504 guineas on four samples, one of
them a mere drawing of a rural scene which cost 14
guineas; but a water-color of Dora Creek brought
250 guineas—it is the smaller study of a subject
in a larger view priced at 1000 guineas, which gives
some idea of the value placed by collectors on
Hilder’s work. This picture was painted in the last
year of the artist’s life, and shows his mastery of
his medium ; ypjt one may be forgiven a preference
for “Evening Light,” with the poetry of the bush
in a golden flood. “Deviation Work” shows Hilder’s
ability to turn a prosaic subject into beauty; and
“Fog Lifting, Lake Macquuarie,” displays a mist
effect treated with wizardry. There are too many
good things for individual mention ; one leaves the
show wondering what masterpieces may not have
been lost to Australian art by Hilder’s early passing.
A decorative show is supplied by Miss Phil Mc-
Lachlan at the Australian Fine Arts Gallery, Boom-
erang House. The exhibition belongs to the class
in which sylph-like women of Bft. or so in height
are permissible as auxiliaries to the decorative
effect; but that is well secured, in spite of a weak-
ness in figure drawing, by an adroit and charming
use of color effects and a playful imagination. Tha*
the imagination is highly poetic as well as playful
is shown in “To Helen,” suggested by the lyric- „t
E. A. Poe.
Almost everything in Melbourne is in its
last weeks or penultimate days. Canadian
yodelling will shortly be off th e menu at His
Majesty’s, as Adelaide is stated to be clamor-
ing furiously for “Rose Marie.” “Six-
Cylinder Love” will spark for the last time
at the King’s to-morrow and on Saturday
Barrie’s “Little Mary,” massaged by Gregan
McMahon and interpreted by the Reper-
torians, will take the stage for seven even-
ings. Muriel Starr’s experience in “The
House of Glass” at the Princess suggests
that actresses who live in such residences in-
vite stones; “East Lynne,” with Miss Starr
as Lady Isabel, will take its place on the
25th. With “The Ringer” at the Royal.
Moscovitch is enjoying a longer run than the
play deserves. “Eliza Comes to Stay” is
still at the Athenaeum, though numbers of
playgoers don’t care very much whether the
lady stays or goes.
Hoyt’s Melbourne house is this week offer-
ing “Sacrifice,” a tale of the Great War.
The Majestic’s contribution is “The Sap,”
in which a soldier of the screen, hitherto re-
garded as a coward, goes over the top and
brings back 20 Huns. America’s part in the
late conflict may have been the tail, but
Hollywood is seeing to it that the appendage
wags the dog; and Australian picture-houses
help on the bad work.
* * *
The business of sawing a women in halves
has been resumed at Melbourne Palace, where
Carter, the international witch-doctor, is
inviting members of the audience to satisfy
themselves by walking round the severed por-
tions of the lady. The only item lacking in
the display, to the modern taste, is a bucket
or two of blood. When a dozen javelins are
passed through the body of a smiling girl it
is disappointing to see them come out the
other side as bright and shining as when
they went in. Carter is an ingratiating
wizard and commits his atrocities with all
the suavity of a villain of melodrama. In
this Showman’s opinion, the affair of the
materialising doves is more effective than the
one in which four flappers vanish into the
backcloth. Nobody can say -that the birds
actually existed before Carter snapped them
out of the ether; but if the maidens who dis-
appeared on Saturday failed to put in an
appearance again on Monday, there would be
a police inquiry. Carter is really wasting his
talents in Australia. He should go to some
savage kingdom, where the local shaman,
dukum or pawang grows rich on simple
sleiglit-of-hand, like producing a handful of
nails and asserting that they came out of
the stomach of a person suffering from colic,
tie would be elected maharaja in his first
week.
** * *
A sudden cry for help from Broken Hill
drew away the pick of Melbourne Bijou’s
first part last week, leaving “negro” Harry
Cash and other small change to step into
the breach. Leslie Elliott, a lady, sings
flintily to the piano and Gennett and Wallace
dance gracelessly in the modern modes. George
Ward’s new revue is “Social Vamps” and
Bert Le Blanc, Charles Sherman and the
rest extract amusement from a plot as lucid
as the directions of an intoxicated traffic cop.
* * •-!:
Dick Henderson, the man who made the
Queen laugh, is also making Melbourne
Tivoli giggle, though some of his business
was old when Hammurabi was a lad. Herb
Williams, the American comedian, grows
tiresome on a second hearing, but Marie
Lawton’s harp and voice blend pleasantly on
the ear when the orchestra w r ill let them.
The Flying Flacoris perform feats with their
teeth that suggest a long apprenticeship at
raihvay refreshment-rooms.
* * *
There was some really good pianoforte
playing at the recital by students of F. W.
Homewood, of the University Conserva-
torium, at Melbourne Assembly Hall on
Wednesday of last week, the honors
mainly resting upon the two young men
who were amid the eight girl key-
board _ demonstrators. George Findlay,
the blind musician who has already won
his Mus. Bac. degree, and also secured a
3LO scholarship, was heard in some artistic-
ally rendered Brahms pieces. Victor Stephen-
sen, who is giving a recital in October, pre-
sented another star turn in the first move-
ment of the Schumann Concerto in A minor.
His sympathetically-played second piano part
considerably enhanced a fine reading of the
Mozart Concerto in D minor (First Move-
ment) by Evelyn Cadd. Edna Williams’s
offering, the opening of the Beethoven Con-
certo in E flat, was rather overpowered by
the somewhat labored second piano accom-
paniment. Most of these young performers
exhibited well advanced technique; inter-
(.Continued on Page 51/.)


Keep Your Face Young
Correct shaving soothes and protects the skin. Every shave
is a correct shave with the “Valet” Auto Strop Razor. Its
freshly-stropped, keen-edged blade leaves the skin smooth
as velvet. Keeps the face young.
“Valet” Auto Strop Razor is more than a safety razor—
it is a safety razor and a stropper ingeniously combined.
A complete shaving service. Nothing to take apart —
nothing to put together, except when you occasionally
slip in a new blade.
No. 99 Set.
feet ‘'Valet"
three blades
case
Contains the essentials for c
shave—the razor, strop
in leatherette-covered
per-
and
3/6
OF ALL DEALERS.
BRITISH MADE.
OF ALL DEALERS.
“'VALET”
T*K>p
Safety Razor
The Auto Strop Safety Razor Co., Ltd.,
197-207 City Road, London, England.
Managing Agenls for Australia:
PHIPSON & COMPANY, LTD.,
181 Clarence Street, Sydney.
No. 55. Model “C” Set. Contains
self-stropping "Valet” Razor, three
blades and leather strop. In highly-
polished nickelled case with hinged
strop container and nickelled blade
sheath, lined velvet and satin. 4 r\ I
Complete as illustrated
WHERE THE RUD4E-SPORTS
«ETt ITS SUPREMACY
eo MILES AN HOUR
’""'"WSSSO
w
RUDGE-WHITWORTH PATENT PROPORTIONAL
COUPLED BRAKES
Reduce the bogey of skidding to a minimum.
MECHANICAL LUBRICATION
Ensures the engine being always
properly “fed.”
INTERCHANGEABLE
WHEELS
Save roadside troubles —you have
the advantage of a spare wheel
like a car.
FOUR OVERHEAD
VALVES FOUR SPEEDS
Give amazing cower and valve Give you the exact gear for every
reliability. variation of road, load and speed.
There are two other 4.99 h.p. models, the “ Standard ” and the
“ Special.” All models fully maintain the world-wide reputation of
Rudge-Whitworth for high-grade workmanship, and every detail has
been designed for the utoost comfort and convenience of the rider.
FACTORY REPRESENTATIVE: JAMES THORNELL, 312 PITT ST., SYDNEY, N.S.W.
Full particulars of all models may be obtained from — Sydney : Biden and Roberts*
150 Hay St. Melbourne : Rogers Bros. Pty. Ltd., 305 Swanstoti St. Brisbane :
Canada Cycle and Motor Agency (Q'lanS) Ltd., Creek S':. Adelaide : Behrens
Thiem Co., 3 Devon House, Chesser St. Perth : Flower, Davies and Johnson,
404 Murray St. Tasmania. Hobart: J.Bilyard, no Elizabeth St. Launceston:
Carl Mantach, no Charles St.
Rudge- Whitworth Ltd Coventry, England
Buy
Wear
WOLSEY
PURE WOOL UNDERWEAR
It is more durable
and gives better all-
round service than
any other make .
MADE IN ENGLAND BY
WOLSEY LTD., LEICESTER.
Makers of
RAMESES
Underwear and Hosiery t
SPORTSMAN
Knitted Sportswear.
WOLSEY LTD.,
316, Flinders Lane, Melbourne.


a
Wl
, -
Wm
Quality that ensures permanent satisfaction
WuRuIZEI?
®«« UIM o*9
PLAYER
PIANO
Because instruments are designed and built to the very highest
ideals of quality, they continue to give that beautiful tone and that perfection
of performance that first influenced your choice in their favor.
Inspect the various AVurlitzer models before you decide—demonstrations will
be gladly given and easy terms arranged by—
PRINCIPAL “WURLITZER” AGENTS:
NEW SOUTH WALES: Walter King & Sons, Burwood Road, Burwood; A. Cohen’s Music Depot, 97 George
c-rwTmTr »TTcrn£ r . e ? t T . West ’ S y dne y > M - Light & Sons, Ltd., Newcastle and Cessnock.
iTrVTcm .vu!£ TRA kLA : The Australasian Implement and House Furnishing Co., Adelaide.
WEST AUSTRALIA: Musgrove’s, Ltd., Murray Street, Perth.
' Findlay’s Pty., Ltd., 63-65 George Street, Launceston.
VICTORIA: Myer’s Emporium, Ltd., Melbourne.
" here an V difficulty is experienced in procuring a “Wurlitzer” communicate direct with the factory representatives:
Parker, Blau & Co., Ltd.,
8 O’CONNELL STREET. SYDNEY.
308 FLINDERS LANE, MELBOURNE.
pretation and rhythm were their weakest
points, particularly in the case of those who
grappled with Beethoven. Joyce Denniston,
Lorna Trist, Sybil Balding, Lilian Pattinson
(in the Liszt Hungarian Fantasia”), Jessie
Clarke and Morfyn Jones all won applause
from a crowded house.
Unlike snails, men don’t build the shells
they are compelled to live in but leave it to
architects to design them. Judging by the
very interesting international exhibition
sponsored by the Vic. Institute in Melbourne,
every architect has a different idea from his
fellows as to what constitutes the most suit-
able and becoming sort of shell for a human
being. The Germans, who submit some over-
whelming photographic enlargements, build
enormous conglomerations of shells called
hotels, which resemble the residences of Tibet-
an lamas. They are also fond of pylons,
obelisks and primitive monumental effects of
all sorts, which give the impression of the
nation having inherited its cities from a race
of extinct gigantosauri. The Czecho-Slo-
vakians build Buddhist dagobas for their
civil servants ; they are also rather keen on
cubes and pyramids. The Americans design
public buildings that help the people who
work in them to remember they are slaves,
though their domestic architecture is more
human. The English, Australian and Maori-
land architecture is not as enterprising as
any of the foregoing, but it is more cheerful.
The Maorilanders have a happy knack of
dropping a suburban bungalow into the
middle of a sheep-farm, where it looks sur-
prised and incongruous but presumably gives
satisfaction to its owners. Tli e English archi-
tects are wisely concerning themselves in
adapting traditional English designs to
modern uses. and so are the Vic-
torians and N. S. Welshmen, though the
Australian climate has made the latter also
look in the direction of Spain and Italy.
The efforts of John D. Moore, of Sydney, to
make us feel gay, even though married, are
to be commended, and Prof. Leslie Wilkin-
son’s housing scheme at Pyrmont is a plea-
sant substitute for a slum. The architect
is, in a sense, a playwright who uses brick,
stone and stamped metal ceilings to express
his emotions, and even liis attitude towards
questions of the day, if he has one.
Melbourne art:—
Up to date, E. Buckmaster shows as less an artist
than a dazzling performer on the tight-rope and the
high trapeze. Some of his gymnastic feats at the
Fine Art Gallery could hardly be excelled by the
oldest Blondins in the game. His fruit, flowers,
hardware and old ladies are brilliantly painted, if
not deeply seen. Out in the country, however, he
still loses himself in problems of tone. His valley
fogs are more suggestive of rheumatism than of
mystery, and his seas are stage-painters’ oceans.
In fact, his draughts of Sydney Harbor would go
better if he took less water with them. Indoors,
however, he is now technically quite at home. He
is easily the most promising of Victoria’s younger
tribe.
Good drawing—often remarkably good drawing—-
is the main weapon in the armory of R. P. Parkin-
son, a young Queenslander who is showing oils and
waters at the Sedon Galleries, Melbourne. The
anatomy of the gums in No. 11 has almost a Hans
Heysen keenness about it. and there is fine perspective
in the canefields spreading out to the mountains in
No 24. There is nothing slovenly about the com-
position, either. The artist needs to grasp tone in
one hand and color in the other, however, before
his onslaught on Nature will become really effective.
** * *
A brief season of G. and S. is in progress
at Adelaide Theatre Royal, the fare includ-
ing ‘‘Princess Ida” and “Ruddigore,” the
latter never previously staged in Australia.
Marie Burke follows with “Frasquita.”
At the Prince of Wales H. F. Maltby's
entertaining comedy “The Rotters” is being
presented by Bill Anderson’s company.
At the Majestic Henri French provides a
hair-raising stunt on a wheel and Laurence
Johnson ventriloquises with no little adroit-
ness. There is an amusing one-act comedy,
“After the Storm,” by the Gayle Wyer co.
At West’s the star turn is “Kid Boots,” with
Eddie Cantor in the lead. It opens like
the musical comedy, but finishes a panto-
mime. The supporting film, “The Honey-
moon Express,” is notable in having nothing
to do with honeymoons, or trains either.
The Wondergraph Theatre is screening “A
Little Journey,” with Claire Windsor as
the girl en route to marry one man who
perversely falls in love with another. “Simon
the Jester” features Eugene O’Brien and
Lilian Rich in a picture that proves doctors
are not always right. At the Grand “The
Flaming Frontier” is providing sufficient
thrills to draw every boy for miles;
Sitting Bull with 10,000 less-distinguished
Indians is engaged in the famous Custer
niassacre. Jack Fewster featured an original
idea at the Princess Theatre, Marryatville,
in the form- of “A Radio Revue,” an inter-
esting spoken resume of a visit to the Islands,
with Hawaiian songs and music, introduced.
Poverty
Point
THESPIA’S CHILD.
FOND MOTHER: “Please, sir, would you give my boy a chance
in your theatre? ’E acted in two Shakspeare plays at
the school concert, an’ was something lovely.”
MANAGER: “O-ho! What were the plays?”
FOND MOTHER: “‘Nothin’ Much Doin" an’ ‘The Temptress.’”
“Hamfat” : Loud applause is due again to
the Fullers, who are fitting Australian mum-
mers into some of the parts in “Sunny”
hitherto held by importations. The musical
comedy under its new management starts off
at Sydney Palace a week after its finish
at the Empire; and Fullers reckon on a
long season. They also reckon upon open-
ing their new Auckland theatre at the corner
of Wellesley and Queen streets on Boxing
Night with this bright piece. The new play-
house will probably be called the St. James.
It is built on the pleasant lines of the
Sydney theatre, and Henry White is the
architect.
“Naklioda” : I haven’t seen “Hamlet” on
the screen (B. 16/6/’27) but I have seen
him done in Malay. Ophelia was a Javanese
with th e flat chest and shrill warble of her
kind —they are said to swallow alive a cer-
tain worm with a penetrating note to im-
prove their voices. In the graveyard scene
two ghosts played hide and seek in a typical
Mohammedan cemetery. The far-from-melan-
choly Dane was a Bornean native, equipped
with an enormous kris and a style of elocu-
tion like John Cairn’s. He ran amok in the
end and murdered all the cast except
Ophelia, who was drowned already. Then
lie disembowelled himself realistically with
the aid of a parcel of butchers’ oddments con-
cealed inside his waistcoat. It was a great
show. Allan Wilkie’s wasn’t a circumstance
to it.
“Flaming Youth”: Nobody knows more
about the Australian film industry than Ray
(christened Raymond Hollis) Longford. He
was doing well before the coming of com-
bines ; there were nearly a dozen picture-
producing organisations then in Sydney
alone. As producer for Spencer, Ray was
the leading local man, and he has made the
most of the limited opportunities afforded
him since the American dumping era began.
When the Australian industry has the glori-
ous revival which is now certain, Longford’s
name will be honorably bracketed with that
of Vic. Senator Guthrie, that other indomit-
able fighter in the good cause.
“Caul Boy”: Harold Bowden (B.
16/(>/'27) misses my point. This is that it
hardly becomes him. as J.C.W.’s represen-
tative. to be too self-rigliteously critical of
American producers, since they do most of
the Firm’s spadework for it by risking their
dollars on new plays. Only those plays
which have proved their revenue-producing
value by long runs in U.S.A. arc looked at
by Australian buyers. Mr. Bowden uncon-
sciously confirms this fact when he speaks
of having purchased .Kelly’s “great success,”
“The Show-off.” Actually, Williamson’s
producers are really re-producers—they get
their script with all the successful business
carefully written in. I didn’t mention
O’Neill’s “Desire Under the Elms,” but
don’t consider his shocked resume of the
plot has any bearing on whether the work
is worth while artistically.
“Lud”: England has never produced a
more astute or many-sided showman than
Charles B. Cochran. Consider the man’s
activities. He is
“promoting” a box-
ing-matcli for the
world’s middle-
weight title, direct-
ing Suzanne Leng-
len as a profes-
sional, controlling
the varied enter-
tainments put on
at the Albert Hall
—a white elephant
before the Cochran
regime—and man-
aging the London
Pavilion. There the
title of his latest
show, “One Dam’
Thing After An-
other,” has given
the ball of energy
more advertisement
than any of his
previous pieces.
Next he has in
hand a season of
Ibsen plays in the
West End and the
London production
of a new musical
comedy, _ “Castles
in the Air.” which
has already bepn
booked for early
production in Aus-
tralia.
“Harry Stottle” :
Some people would
sooner watch the
movies than eat.
At Ivyneton (Vic.)
the local showman
screened “The Big
Parade” twice
nightly the first
house at 6 p.m.,
the second at 5.30
—and made money
hand over fist. Yet
Ivyneton has frost-
bitten more flesh-
and-blood actors than any other place of the
same size in Australia.
“E.T.”: Louis Esson (B. 2/6/’27) com-
mends Eugene O’Neill’s sordid tragedy,
“Desire Under the Elms,” as a work “which
good English critics regard as perhaps the
best play written in America.” English
critics could only have formed that opinion
on reading the printed play. The British
censor refused a license for its performance.
That the piece is unpleasant and depressing
there can be no doubt, and its moral tone, as
Mr. Esson tells us, shocked even America.
Yet Mr. Esson, presumably, would vote for its
public representation. Which shows once
more how difficult the path of censorship is.
“Curtain Raiser”: Harold Bowden, the
Firm’s N’York buyer, asks (B. 16/6/’27)
whether a play in which a young man
seduces his stepmother is the sort of play
“Caul Boy” would like Australian audiences
to see. Well, Mr. Bowden’s employers re-
cently let Australia see a play in which a
young woman, after marrying" a man suffer-
ing from syphilis, seduces another man on
his wedding night.
“Longshot”: “We of the Never-Never.”
Mrs. Gunn’s classic story of the N.T., is to
be filmed. The authoress will co-operate with
the adapters, and some of the characters sh“
immortalised—three are still alive—will be
transferred to the silver sheet.
“I. Phelps”: Casting about for a Trilby
for Moscovitch’s Svengali, the Firm has
alighted on Byrl Walkley, who has been long
known as a pleasing songstress in G. and
S. and music-comedy parts. Miss Walkley
looks the type and is more than bearable iii
most dramatic situations. She ought to
show at least some histrionic advance on
Ellen Pollock, whose Trilby in Sydney was
not built on Du Maurier lines.
“Schnorrer”: “Santander” (B. 16/6/'27)
is hopelessly wrong in his remarks about
Heifetz’s visit to Palestine. The musician
went there with no idea of making money,
but gave concerts to aid Zionist activities.
He has undertaken to help in the establish-
ment of a conservatorium in the land to
which the Chosen are returning with boiled
shirts that have gleamed in the front stalls
of the theatres of nearly every city in the
world.
“Julian”: Pity some of our old-timers
could not have been filmed in their particu-
lar lines of buslicraft. Lance Skuthorp or
the late Darcy Hyland, great horsemen both,
would have challenged the supremacy of
Tom Mix. Jack Hamilton, Queensland
M.L.A., was a great two-handed gunman ; I
have never seen anything on the pitchers to
equal some of his feats. Darcy Uhr and
Archie Meston would have been film kings
had the camera been available in their day.
And Jerry Jerome, the fighting abo., would
have out-mixed Tom in cutting out, riding
down, throwing and roping a steer.
“C. Ockney”: Wish Wynne, the “charac-
ter” comedienne, who has thrice toured
vaudeville circuits in Australia (and Aus-
tralia wasn’t kind to her the last time),
has returned to the “legit.” Before she went
on the halls Wish made a striking success
in London in Arnold Bennett’s “Great
Adventure,” playing the part taken here by
Marie Tempest. Now she is with Robert
Courtneidge at the Savoy in Edgar Wallace’s
“Double Dan.” A versatile artist, and a
true one.
“Caesar’s Ghost”: Marie Ley appears to
have assured her niche in London, always
in work that calls for thoughtful acting.
When the Incorporated Stage Society decided
to produce Karl Schonherr’s “Der Weibsteu-
fel” it requisitioned Marie for the leading
part. The Maoriland girl played a long sea-
son as leading lady at the Old Vic.; she was
Ruth in Eugene O’Neill’s “Beyond the
Horizon,” too.
“D.C.T.”: Public morality is a funny
thing. Some of the quips in “The Cradle
Snatchers” are fruity enough to make a
deep-sea stoker blush. But let a University
student make a coarse jest on Commem. Day
and “Mother of Seven” writes to the Akgus
or the S. M. Herald, and some young lion
of week-end journalism pens a philippic
for the garbage press. It would seem that
lewd remarks dre innocuous provided that
they come from the mummers’ side of the
footlights.
“Curtain Raiser”: How these American
ulaywrights give their countrymen away!
Prohibitionists would have us" believe that
the Volstead Act has added cubits to the
nation’s moral stature. _ In “The House of
Glass,” the new American crime in Mel-
bourne, every time the hostess refers to cock-
tails the men kick up their heels and burst
into imbecile laughter as they rush for the
butler. The Australian audience is so little
accustomed to these antics that it looks on,
merely puzzled.
“Miro”: As “Ancient Prompter” remarks
(B. 7/G/’27), it doesn’t matter who plays
the stage piano as long as the effect is right.
But on one occasion, when the heroine sat
down to play a little music appropriate to a
tender interlude with the hero, it mattered
a lot. The super, must have been suffer-
ing from self-expression or beer. As the
lady rattled off a gay little thing in the
treble there was a thunder of bass notes,
then silence, though her fingers still moved.
She hastily removed her hands and talked
with animation, but the piano burst forth
with a wild staccato effort. She left the
instrument, and the hateful thing inter-
rupted the conversation with malicious
chords and discords. Then someone, pro-
bable the s.-m., assaulted the miscreant, and
the noise of battle drowned the hero’s assur-
ances that he would be terew till death; but
the piano was heard no more.
“A.G.M.” (Lond.) : “Sir Johnston Forbes-
Robertson presents himself, his family, rela-
tions and friends in Shakspeare’s comedy,
‘Twelfth Night,’ at St. James’s Theatre”—
this is the remarkable bill announcing the
great Shakspearean actor’s last stage appear-
ance. Fourteen members of his family will
be in the cast.
THE ACTORS’ PARADISE.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
In London at his music-hall
He wasn’t deemed exceptional;
He did his little clever turn.
Though people liked to see him play,
He went his unregarded way,
Content his salary to earn.
But when across the seas he came
He found that he had gathered fame,
Though why he couldn’t clearly see.
And just because he trod the stage
He very soon became the rage
In Sydney’s best society!
He quickly left off.haunting bars;
They took him out in lordly cars;
He dined with people rich and “nice” ;
Among the moneyed smartest set
He soon became the social pet
In this the Actor’s Paradise.
Now lie’s a real personage;
His clothes, his manners, are the rage,
Familiar as Lang’s his face;
And when last week lie took the air
So many folks flocked round to stare
He caused a block in Martin-place!
N.s.w.
ARTHUR H. ADAMS.


Shipping.
WINTER TOURS
Escorted Tours to
JAVA : : MALAYA
SIAM : : JAPAN
Independent Inclusive Tours to
HONOLULU, CALIFORNIA,
BRITISH COLUMBIA,
SOUTH AFRICA, CEYLON,
NORTH QUEENSLAND.
WINTER SPORTS AT:
Mount Buffalo (Vic.), Mount Cook (N.Z.),
South Sea Island Cruises.
Special Programme Post Free from
THOS. COOK & SON,
MELBOURNE: SYDNEY:
269 Collins Street. Martin Place.
ADELAIDE: PERTH:
49a Grenfell Street. 22 Forrest Street (Opp. G.P.0.).
BRISBANE, via BYRON BAY
Through Tickets to Brisbane issued.
S.S. ORARA—Every Saturday evening; passengers
due Brisbane Monday afternoon.
S.S. WOLLONGBAR—Every Tuesday evening;
passengers due Brisbane Thursday afternoon.
Both vessels fitted with Wireless Receiving Sets.
BRISBANE:
FARES.—
Steamer and Motor throughout, Single, £4
Steamer and Motor throughout, Return, £7/5/-
Steamer and First-class Rail, Single, £3/15/-
Steamer and Second-class Rail, Single, £3/8/-
NORTH COAST S. N. CO., LTD.,
Passengers’ Booking Office:
TOURIST BUREAU, CIIALLIS HOUSE,
MARTIN PLACE, SYDNEY.
Brisbane Booking Agents: Burns, Philp and Co., Ltd.
PAUSE AWHILE IN SUNNY
HAWAII
Enjoy eternally balmy weather—in novel setting
of tropical moonlight and melody, quaint tea-
rooms, Oriental bazaars. Exciting surfing and
outrigger canoeing at Waikiki. Enchanted
cruises to the lovely islands of Kauai, Maui
and Hawaii. Golf and motor on all principal
islands. A vacation that is different. Good
hotels from 12/- to £3 per day, with meals.
No extra cost for “stop-over” privilege en
route to America or Europe. Round-trip,
Sydney and return, 8 weeks or less (3 or 4
weeks in Hawaii), £lOO to £l5O, inclusive.
Ask nearest travel or steamship agent; or
write Hawaii Tourist Bureau, Dept. 26, Box
241 D, G.P.0., Sydney, N.S.W., for full infor-
mation in attractive booklet, attaching this
advertisement.
PLAN NOW TO ENJOY
HAWAII
Banking, Public Companies, etc,
TheAustralianßankof Commerce Limited
Authorised Capital .. .. .. £5,000,000
Capital Paid Up and Reserves .. .. £2,685,303
Aggregate Assets at 30th June, 1926 ..£16,789,590
Directors: Sir Mark Sheldon, K.8.E., Chairman;
Prank N. Yarwood ; H. R. Lysaght, 0.8. E. ;
George J. Sly, LL.D. ; Lieut.-Col. T. L. P. Rut-
ledge ; James Kell.
General Manager: C. M. C. Shannon.
Chief Inspector lor N.S.IV.: W. G. Hull.
HEAD OFFICE, SYDNEY (Corner George and King
Streets).
Branches and Receiving Offices at 158 places in
New South Wales.
BRISBANE (264 Queen Street).
Chief Inspector for Queensland: L. Avetard.
Manager: G. H. Howell.
Branches and Receiving Offices at 27 places in
Queensland.
MELBOURNE (325 Collins Street).
Manager: M. B. Finney.
ADELAIDE (35 Bundle Street).
Manager: R. T. Moodie.
PERTH, W.A. (73 St. George’s Terrace).
Manager; A. C. Dibdin.
LONDON (37 Threadneedle Street, E. 0.2).
Manager: A. F. Jenkins.
London Directors ;
A. Dodds Fairbairn, Alfred Shepherd, James Tuke.
Agents throughout Australia. Tasmania and New
7.i aland, and at all the Chief Cities of the World.
Every description of Banking Business Transacted.
Bank of New Zealand.
SYDNEY BRANCH:
Corner GEORGE and WYNYARD
STREETS.
Guaranteed Stock .. .. .. £529,988
Preference Shares .. .. .. 1,875,000
Ordinary Shares . . . . . . 3,750,000
Reserve Fund and Undivided Profits 3,390,378
GRANTS DRAFTS Zealand, Fiji, Samoa,
Great Britain and Ireland, and other places.
RECEIVES DEPOSITS
at interest
for fixed
perioda and transacts all other usual Banking business.
The Bank of Adelaide
(■lncorporated 1865.)
BRISBANE OFFICE: 303-307 QUEEN STREET.
PERTH OFFICE: ST. GEORGE’S TERRACE.
\ Iso FREMANTLE, W.A.
MELB'M p.\E OFFICE: 267 COLLINS STREET.
SYDNEY OFFICE: 279 GEORGE STREET.
.. £2,000,000
• • 1,000,000
.. £1,000,000
850,000
£1,850,000
Reserve liability of shareholders,
increased to .. .. .. 1,000,000
£2,850,000
Head Office: ADELAIDE, SOUTH AUSTRALIA.
Also 114 Branches and Agencies in South Australia.
London Office: 11 LEADENHALL STREET, E.C.
Agencies in all Australian States and throughout
the world.
Drafts and Letters of Credit issued on London, America
and elsewhere. Bills from abroad collected and pro-
ceeds remitted. All usual banking business transacted.
Authorised Capital
Subscribed Capital, increased to
Paid Up Capital, „ „
Reserve Fund, „ „
If any illustration in The Bulletin takes
your fancy, write to the Manager, who will
quote you price for the original.
Shipping, eto.
CANADA, UNITED STATES,
UNITED KINGDOM
FORTNIGHTLY SAILINGS FROM SYDNEY.
CANADIAN-AUSTRALASIAN ROYAL MAIL LINE.
via Auckland, Suva (Fiji), Honolulu, Victoria and Vancouver.
UNION ROYAL MAIL LINE
via Wellington, Rarotonga, Tahiti and San Francisco.
AORANGI 17,400 tons, JUNE 30, for Vancouver.
TAHITI 7,900 „ JULY 14, for San Francisco.
NIAGARA 13,415 „ JULY 28, for Vancouver.
MAKURA 8,075 „ AUG. 11, for San Francisco.
Fast and splen-
didly equipped
steamers using
oil fuel.
Spacious Decks,
Unrivalled
Cuisine.
■V \
.
The Scenic
Routes to the
United Kingdom,
via South Sea
Islands, Canada,
United States.
TICKETS TO THE UNITED KINGDOM INTERCHANGEABLE FOR
RETURN BY OTHER LINES.
HONOLULU EXCURSIONS BY AORANGI AND NIAGARA.
UNION STEAM SHIP CO.
{
Union House, 24 7 George Street, Sydney.
William Street, Melbourne.
MACDONALD, HAMILTON & CO., Brisbane, Adelaide and Perth.
SOUTH SEA TOURS
Attractive Island Trips, occupying about Jji Weeks.
SIX-WEEKLY SAILINGS FROM SYDNEY TO
Now Rr ft a fi\ • S.S. “MONTORO” (5000 tons).
lit! TV Ulllfllll* Sails 2S and Ana-list 9.
tinman hlan/k' SS “MATARAM” (3500 tons),
OOIUIIIOU DKHUJL Sails July 20 and August 31.
A Delightful Holiday in Island Wonderlands .
For Particulars apply—
BURNS, PHILP & CO,, LTD.,
Sydney, Melbourne, Adelaide and Brisbane^
m
mm
BURNS, PHILP & CO., LTD.
Passenger Booking Agents for All Steamship Lines
ENGLAND
EUROPE
AMERICA
CANADA
AFRICA
INDIA
JAPAN
CHINA
JAVA, etc.
At regular passage rates. No extra charge.
Attractive Tour to
NOUMEA, JAVA, HONOLULU, COLOMBO, etc.
VISIT JAVA (The wonderland of the East).
Regular monthly sailings of the s.s. “Marella” and
m.s. “Malabar” to Java and Singapore via Queensland
ports, Thursday Island, Darwin, etc. Smooth-water trip,
Deck Cabins, interesting ports of call.
APPLY
BURNS, PHILP & COMPANY, LIMITED,
WORLD TOUR and TRAVEL DEPARTMENT.
7 BRIDGE STREET, SYDNEY.
BANK OF NEW SOUTH WALES.
Established 1817.
PAID-UP CAPITAL
RESERVE FUND ..
RESERVE LIABILITY
ħ
£6,875,000
4,750,000
6,875,000
£18,500,000
Directors:
Thomas Buckland, Esq., President.
The Hon Reginald J. Black, M.L.C.
Charles Binnie, Esq.
James Burns, Esq.
Robert L. Faithfull, Esq., M.D,
Robert W. Gillespie, Esq.
Franc B. S. Falldner, Esq.
Auditors: W. H. Palmer, Esq.; S. E. Laidley, Esq. General Manager: OSCAR LINES.
Head Office —George Street, Sydney. London Office—29 Tlireadneedle Street, E.C. 2.
477 Branches and Agencies in the Australian States, Federal Territory, New Zealand, Fiji, Papua,
Mandated Territory of New Guinea and London. Agents and Correspondents throughout tpe world.
Cable remittances made to, and drafts drawn on Foreign places DIRECT. Foreign Bills
negotiated and collected, Letters of Credit Issued, negotiable throughout the world.
The Commercial Banking Company
of Sydney Limited
ESTABLISHED 1834.
CAPITAL PAID UP £4,671,712 10 0
RESERVE FUND 3,850,000 0 0
RESERVE CAPITAL 4,723,187 10 0
£13,244,000 0 0
Divcctovs *
GEORGE J. COHEN, Chairman; Hon. SIR THOMAS HUGHES, M.L.f!., Deputy
Chairman: Hon. JAMES ASHTON, M.L.C.; Major-General the Hon. J. W.
MACARTHUR ONSLOW, V.D., M.L.C.; Sir WILLIAM VICARS, C.B.E.
General Manager: J. R. DRYHURST.
HEAD OFFICE: Sydney, 343 George Street.
London Offices —18 Birchin Lane, Lombard St., E.C.3, and 69 King William St., E.O.
Branches throughout Queensland, New South Wales and Victoria and Branch at Adelaide South
Australia. Agencies throughout Australia and New Zealand, and all other parts of the'World.
All Classes of General Banking and Exchange Business Transacted.
SAFE DEPOSIT VAULTS.—lnspection invited. Particulars of
Safe Rentals on application.
Shipping, etc.
Inter-State Steamship
Sailings,
(Passenger Sailings—Circumstances permitting.)
FOR MELBOURNE. ADELAIDE and FREMANTLE
( Transhipping at Melbourne for Geelong and other
Victorian ports; at Adelaide for S.A. Gulf ports;
and at Fremantle for Perth, Bunbury, Geraldton
and North-West Ports).
FOR QUEENSLAND PORTS
(Transhipping at Brisbane for Maryborough, Bunda-
berg and Gladstone, and at Townsville for outports).
♦Brisbane. Mackay (no cargo for Mackay), Townsville
ar o Cairns.
Huddart ParkerLiE'
Magnificent
Fast Passengai
Steamships
STEAMERS TO NEW ZEALAND—ReguIar sailings
from Sydney to New Zealand ports and vice versa.
Particulars to be obtained on application.
STEAMERS TO TASMANIA —From Sydney to Hobart
and vice versa as per daily papers. Between Mel-
bourne and Launceston as per daily papers.
For full particulars apply HUDDART PARKER LIMITED
Coll Ins Street, Melbourne; Bridge Street, Sydney.
Interstate Telegraphic address:
“NALDHAM.”
Cable address
“NALDHAM’
Macdonald, Hamilton § Co.
247 George Street, Sydney.
Shipping Agents, Merchants, Colliery
Proprietors, Tug and Lighter Owners.
MANAGING AGENTS FOR
Australasian United Steam Navigation Co., Ltd.
Uitzroy Estates, Ltd.
Blackheath Collieries, Ltd., • and Caledonian
Collieries, Ltd.
Eastern & Australian Steamship Co., Ltd.
AGENTS FOR
British-India S. N. Go., Ltd. P. & 0. S. N. Co.
Queensland Line of Steamers. Scottish Shire Line
(Turnbull, Martin & Co.). New Zealand Shipping Co.,
Ltd. Canadian-AUstralasian Royal Mail Line, San
Francisco Service (Union S. S. Co.), Union S. S. Co.
o{ New Zealand, Ltd. Hain Line. Huddart Parker,
Ltd. London Assurance Corporation (Marine). Mel-
bourne Agents for Messageries Maritimes Co. Queens-
land Agents for Sea Insurance Co., Ltd.
BRANCHES at Perth, Fremantle, Adelaide, Port
Adelaide, Melbourne, Suva (Fiji), Brisbane, Mary-
borough, Bundaberg and Bowen.
Australian Mutual
Established
1849.
Head Office:
87 Pitt St., Sydney
Provident Society
The Largest and Most Successful
Mutual Life Office in the British Empire,
Distributes a Cash Bonus Every Year.
Amount Distributed for single year 1926 £2,887,200
Yielding Reversionary Additions to
Policies of over .. .. .. £4,893,000
Accumulated Funds .. .. .. £63,600,000
Annual Income .. .. .. .. £9,600,000
The Society transacts Every Class of Ordinary
and Industrial Assurance Business.
H. W. APPERLY, F.S.S., General Manager.
Hotel
Kosciusko
Early Winter
Tourist Concession
Ticket.
First-Class Return]
Rail, Motor, [
3J Days Hotel. J
£846
July and August excepted.
Bookings and Further Particulars at —
N.S.W. Government
TOURIST BUREAU
Challis House, 8 Martin Place,
Sydney.


Graham Brothers
trucks
Confidence —
Around the world and
around the clock Graham
Brothers Trucks and
Dodge Brothers Commer-
cial Cars are at work.
Wherever they are,
whatever the work, they
operate dependably and at
low cost, inspiring owner
confidence.
Graham Brothers name
stands for fine materials
. . . skilled workmanship
. . . highest percentage of
high grade alloy steels . . .
genuine repair parts and
service always available.
Graham Brothers means
power for the hardest pull
. . . conservative ratings
of capacity . . . ease and
economy of operation . ..
endurance.
TT
ftjj
a
1
cP
n
A
4
IX
=556
3S
SOLD BY DODGE BROTHERS
DEALERS EVERYWHERE
1-Ton Chassis ------- - £325
1 2-Ton Chassis ------- £445
2-Ton Chassis ------- - £485
2-Ton Chassis (Long wheel base) £515
Canada Cycle & Motor Co. (Victoria) Pty., Ltd., Melbourne.
Austral Motors, Limited, Brisbane, Townsville.
The Standardised Motors, Ltd., Sydney.
Waymouth Motor Co., Ltd., Adelaide.
Winter bottom Motor Co., Ltd., Perth.
28/S/'2T.


1
-igi
‘ :
v' C
/ /■' If® !
/
i
Be Pretty!
Be Dainty!
Be
Attractive!
Be a
Rexona Girl!
Miss FRANCES BUCHRACE,
(i beautiful Rexona Girl, of Ift
Newman Street, Mortdale,
N.SAV., writes: ‘‘My motto is
Rexona Soap for health and
beauty. 1 ’
The Use of Rexona Soap
Ensures Beauty to Skin and Hair.
REXONA
SOAP.
Wealth
<ud<§ecauy
m.
s*m
Packed in the famous Red Boxes and
mailed to you the day they are made.
Prices; 3/-, 5/6, 6/-,
10/-, 12/6, 20/- & 30/-
Post free to any address
in Australia.
Send for Catalogue, illustrated
with Reproductions of our
Confectionery, in color.
1 '
X
Qi
162-166 PITT STREET
BRANCHES:
CR. GEORGE &• KING S 7 RESTS
CASTLE RE AGH STREET,
NEXT THEATRE ROYAL ,
SYDNEY.
u What a lovely
Good-bye, Sailing-ship.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“ ‘The doom of the sailing-ship is sealed,’ said
Captain Sterling, owner of the Sterling line of sailing-
vessels. ‘I shall be compelled to replace my sailers
with oil-burning boats.’ ”
The albatross has skimmed the west; the
gulls have swooped behind ;
Nor’ east by nor’ the wind has veered;
the tautened halliards hum;
The spume has raced above the decks the
helmsman’s eyes to blind;
The seas that board us hit the decks like
blows upon a drum.
Black cloud battalions in the east, night
marches on before;
And now the swaying masts reach up to tip
the evening star.
Ghosts, sick of towns and ivied towers, have
taken flight from shore;
The sails appear, and I can hear each
groaning rope and spar.
Drink deep, O bows, of salt-sea foam your
last and bitter draught!
Within tw r o days the fires will blaze inside
the wrecker’s yard.
They'll strip your sails and save your nails
to use in other craft;
For ways have changed and ships have
changed and merchantmen are hard.
Oil —oil and steam have tipped the beam in
balances of gold;
The consignees who own the seas have
issued their decree:
"The sailing-ship is done,” they say, “she’s
slow and far too old” —
And so their transferred cargoes now will
sweep us from the sea.
But faces from the gloom peer out across the
swirling decks,
And phantom forms stained red with blood
or black with graveyard loam —
Pale wraiths of sailors dead on shore or
risen from the wrecks
Have come to-night to see the last old
clipper safely home.
For by the tides and by the winds that take
the tracks of trade,
By fishing town and beaches brown, and
where the whalers run
Through surf and weed and lake and reed,
where’er romance has stayed
The news has spread unto the dead, “The
sailing-ship is done!”
And Dons in shining armor girt who trod the
poops of Spain,
And admirals who stood with Drake, and
saw in grim review
Their fleets advance, with foes of France
exchange salutes again,
And comrades dead a hundred years go
pacing two and two.
No sailorman who ever ran before a howling
gale
Or whistled for a pocketful of wind in
Southern seas
But comes to sing with us to-night the swan-
song of the sail,
And say good-bye for ever to a thousand
memories.
And Nelson’s men with captains of the
mercantile marine
Grant buccaneers the right of peers, nor
trouble to pursue
Their ancient feud, but each to each recalls
that evergreen
And spacious age of sailing-ships when all
the world was new.
In those dim days of men’s amaze the tall
ships sallied out
Across the west on peril’s quest, saw alien
lands arise;
And where the rovers through the surf could
hear the masthead shout
To-day the quays arc thick with ships and
piled with merchandise.
They raced with tea from far Cathay; with
wool from Sydney town ;
With Burma rice and teak and spice and
colonists and gin.
Their wings they spread and dipped the
lead or sent their anchors down
Off every cape, in every port, the seven
seas roll in.
Their galleons proud are like a cloud that
compasses the world.
It seems as though the magic names take
shape within the dark.
The Royal Sovereign rides the gale with
ne’er a tops’l furled ;
And half a fathom’s length behind looms
up the Cutty Sark.
Oh ! palely gleam the ships of dream in con-
voy overside!
And none can see the hands upon the
royals as they turn,
And none but I against the sky have seen
them where they ride,
Although our course is through the.
troubled track they leave astern.
Towards the west the white stars wheel; the
east grows wan and grey;
And, one by one, before the sun the hosts
of phantoms slip
Away from us to join the fleet bound back
to Yesterday ;
And down the wind I hear them calling,
“Good-bye, sailing-ship !”
N.S.W.
MERVYN O'HARA.
Kiddo Sees It Through.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
THE stewards cursed the trunk. It was
huge and heavy and required three
men to lift it. It was too big for
the cabin.
“Put it where you like,” said the owner,
a bashful little man.
The chief steward came along aggressively.
“You’ve no right to be on board this morn-
ing. You know we don’t sail till to-morrow
afternoon.”
The tin, trunk stretched across the deck,
an impassable barrier. The stewards were
holding a consultation when a cop. strolled
up. “What’s wrong?” he asked.
“It’s my trunk,” said the little man, who
seemed nervous at the trouble he was caus-
ing.
“Where are you going?”
“Brisbane.”
“It’s a cow of a trunk,” said one of the
stewards.
The cop. had a good look at it and then
turned to the little man.
"What have you got in. it?”
“I dunno.”
“You don’t know!”
“I know one thing that’s in it. A wooden
leg.”
The cop.’s eyes bulged. “What do you
want a wooden leg for?”
“It ain’t for me,” replied the little man
apologetically.
“That’s a funny thing,” said the cop.
“I want a look inside this trunk. You’d
better open it.”
“Sorry,” said the owner, “I can’t.”
“Why not?”
“Haven’t got the keys.”
“Isn’t it your trunk?”
“Not exactly. It’s security for a debt.”
“So that’s the game,” cried the cop. “And
you're going to Brisbane?”
“Yes.”
“Don’t you know you can't take security
out of the State?”
The little man looked surprised. “I’ve
right on my side.” be said at last. “What
can I do about it?”
“You come along with me,” said the con-
stable, “and we’ll take the trunk with us.”
When the huge trunk arrived at the police
station it caused another sensation. The
little man was ready to explain everything.
“What’s your name?”
“Jack Green.”
“Where do you come from?”
“Brisbane. Wish I was there now.”
“About this trunk—whose is it?”
“Mrs. Simpson’s.”
“Has she the keys?”
“Yes.”
“What are you doing with her trunk?”
The little man shook his head sadly.
“Never trust a woman,” he sighed. “It was
this way: I done some work for her, and
she promised me £3O when it was finished.
An agreement was drawn up between us,
but when I’d carried out my part of the
contract she wouldn’t pay me a penny. She
abserlootly refused.”
“What was the reason for that?”
“Don’t talk about reason where a woman’s
concerned,” observed Jack Green with a
cynical laugh. “There’s no reason for any-
thing that Mrs. Simpson does. It’s all
passion with ’er, sheer passion.”
The policemen seemed sympathetic.
“It was a love affair at the beginning,”
the little man said. “She asked me over from
Brisbane, and I ’ad to come. I knew ’er when
I was ’ere before. I was a fool, but many
a man’s been ruined before me for a woman
like ’er. A magnificent creature, I’ll say
that for ’er. with fine, dark eyes. I stayed
at ’er ’ouse.”
“Husband living?” they asked casually.
“Yes. Poor old Simmie, ’e lost a leg
when a derrick fell on him. ’Armless enough,
but useless; and ’e ’as one failing—rum.
We got on all right and he was never jeal-
ous. But Julia! Do you know what she
done one night when she found out I’d taken
a flapper to a picture-show? She came at
me like a fury and ‘Kiddo!’ she screamed —
that was the pet name she give me,' Kiddo—
‘l’ll throw a bottle of vitriol over your face !’
And she meant it, too. You’ll find the
bottle on the lower shelf at the left side of
the cupboard. She used to love me then.
But oh, what a passionate woman she was!
Passionate in ’er love and ’ate !”
The policemen consulted together for a
moment. “Better get Mrs. Simpson,” they de-
cided. “Where does she live?”
“Fitzroy.”
“What’s the address?”
“Gore-street. I- forget the number. Any-
body’ll tell you.”
Kiddo lit a cigarette. “After all I done
for ’er, the way she turned on me when I
asked ’er for the dough-like a blooming
tigress; it’s enough to destroy a man’s faith
in women for ever.”
When Mrs. Simpson arrived, in a state
of high excitement, she looked first at the
trunk, and then at Kiddo. “I give this man
in charge for larceny,” she said, in. a firm.
voice.
“You don’t mean it, Julia !” said the little
man softly.
“You bet I do.”
“You wouldn’t do a thing like that!”
Mrs. Simpson laughed scornfully. “You
can’t put it over me.”
“Ah,” murmured the little man, “all ’er
love ’as turned to ’ate. You’d never think
she used to call me ‘Kiddo.’ ”
Mrs, Simpson was a tall, stout woman of
forty, dark and florid, with big, staring eyes,
and dressed in a costume splashed with
bright bits of purple and scarlet. She must
have been ten years older than Kiddo, who
looked small and insignificant beside her.
She was quivering with anger.
“Steady, Julia,” he said quietly, “or you
may be sorry for it.”
Mrs. Simpson glared at him. “Shut up,
you little worm. You must have been shipped
over with a bunch of rotten bananas. Trying
to get away with my trunk!”
“We’ll open it.” said a cop, taking the
keys from Mrs. Simpson.
There was a motley collection in the huge
tin trunk; linen, cutlery, dresses, a silver
teapot, china ornaments and an artificial
leg. “There’s Simmie’s leg!” cried Mrs,
Simpson. “His best one. These are all my
things.”
“Careful, Julia,” said Kiddo gently.
“What about the thirty quid you owe me?”
“You funny little thing!” she screamed.
“Get back to the zoo.”
“Why don’t you pay me for the job I
done?”
Mrs. Simpson turned on him in a fury of
rage. “Fancy letting a thing like that into
the ’ouse!”
•“It was this way.” said Kiddo, as if con-
fidentially. “That blooming trunk’s full of
valuables. We ’ad to get a special-big trunk
to put them in. Don’t be too previous,
constable. It ain’t stolen property. Them’s
Julia’s towels and ornaments, and Simmie’s
best leg. It’s got a joint in it, and it’s worth
about twenty quid. It’s a sort o’ Sunday
best —an ordinary wooden leg’s good enough
for everyday use, and Simmie might break
it when ’e’s got a few extra rums in. No.
we wasn’t goin’ on our ’oneymoon, with
Simmie’s wooden leg and all. We put the
(Continued on next page.)


"■Every picture
(Zells a Story
3*
////':
rStpr
k!
m
iff
i
Help Your Kidneys!
Avoid that wearying backache !
IF THE KIDNEYS are weak, excess uric acid over-
loads the blood. Pains begin to strike across the
small of the back, and rheumatic twinges, headaches,
dizziness and urinary troubles quickly follow. Don t
neglect these warnings! You should strengthen the
kidneys NCVW. There is danger of rheumatism,
lumbago, sciatica, gravel or stone. Let Doan’s Backache Kidney Pills help you. Doan s Pills will relieve
your kidney troubles, as surely as earlier treatment would have prevented them.
A MAN’S CASE.
Mr. William Carroll, sen., ex-railway guard, 749 Harris
Street, Pyrmont, Sydney, says:—“Some time ago I strained
myself pushing some heavy trucks, and soon noticed the effect
in the small of my back. For three solid months I was unable
to work, and was laid up. I had a very lame back, and a dull
pain through the loins and kidneys, and my secretions became
unnatural and irregular. I consulted a doctor, who recom-
mended Turkish baths; but, though I got a little ease, I could
not work. I used Doan’s Backache Kidney Pills, and obtained
wonderful relief; in fact, so much so that I can now do heavy
work. I am fully convinced that Doan’s Backache Kdiney
Pills are a true Kidney remedy, and I never fail to recommend
them among my friends.”
Twenty years later Mr. Carroll says:—“l am still a
great believer in Doan’s Backache Kidney Pills. They cured
me many years ago, and by taking them now and again I keep
in splendid health.”
TWO SYDNEY
PEOPLE
CURED OF
BACKACHE
AND KIDNEY
TROUBLE.
A WOMAN’S CASE.
Mrs. M. Whitbread, sen., “Amherst,” Napoleon Street,
Mascot, Sydney, says:—“For years I suffered terribly from
backache and kidney trouble, and was at times so ill that I had
to lie up for days. My back ached terribly, and I was almost
crippled with the ailment, every movement making the pain
worse. My ankles and legs swelled considerably,, and I knew
this was a sign of dropsy. I also had trouble with the secre-
tions, was subject to dizziness, and felt tired and languid. I
was really far from well, and having seen Doan’s Backache
Kidney Pills advertised at different times, it at last occurred to
me to try this remedy. I got some, and it proved a blessing,
giving quick relief, and gradually effected a perfect cure. I feel
splendid now, and have only Doan’s Backache Kidney Pills to
thank for my wonderful recovery.”
Two years later Mrs. Whitbread says:—“My cure has
proved a permanent one, no sign of kidney trouble having
returned since Doan’s Pills cured me over two years ago.”
h
DOAN’S
Backache
Kidney
PILLS.
Price 2/9 per bottle, at
all Chemists and Stores,
or from Foster-McClellan
| Co., 15 Hamilton Street,
I Sydney.
trunk itt a railway cloakroom. And then
when evearyftlii&g was all O.K. Julia refused
to cough up the thirty quid she promised me.”
“What for?” asked a constable. “What
sort of a jc*b was it?”
Kiddo snailed vaguely. “I don’t want to
skite, but I must have made a neat thing
of it, for the insurance company’s going to
fork out to-morrow. Ain’t that right, Julia?”
Mrs. Simpsdkn stared blankly at him. “You
fool!” she said- —and plainly meant it.
“They’ve got no suspicions anything was
crook. It waS'fa simple affair. Julia wanted
money, so she had the ’appy idea of having
’er ’ouse burnt down. It was well insured,
and I was the bloke picked to do the job.
That was six weeks ago. Julia wanted to
save everything she could, even old Simmie,
useless as ’e is, so we sent him off for the
night to a cousin’s. We ’ad to store the
other things, and thait's why we’ve got this
’ell of a big trunk ’ere.”
“Arson!” muttered the fat policeman.
“If the ’ouse ’adrift been burnt down,”
said Kiddo, “it would ’ave fallen down.”
“But how did you get Mrs. Simpson's
trunk?” another copper asked.
“That was easy,” said Kiddo innocently.
“I just swore a declaration before a J.P.
that I’d lost the ticket. But it was
such a big, awkward trunk that it aroused
suspicions. Anybody would think I was
trying to get away with a Flinders-lane
warehouse.”
Julia glared at him with her magnificent
eyes, but Kiddo returned her gaze undaunted.
“It was her own greed spoilt it. She
wanted to keep all the insurance money to
herself. Ain’t that like a woman! But
she didn’t expect I’d blow the gaff.”
“You blithering idiot!” said Mrs. Simp-
son. “We could have both got out of it.”
“And now we’re both in it. You goaded
me to it. A man has to get a bit of his
own back sometimes.”
“If I’d only known in time wot I’d brought
into the ’ouse,” she said witheringly, “I’d
’ave got Simmie to murder you with his
wooden leg.”
Kiddo turned smilingly to the policemen.
“Give me pape_r and pen, constable, and I’ll
make a full confession. I’m going to see
it through.”
“I sacrificed everything for ’er,” said
Kiddo afterwards, when he was made com-
fortable at The Farm. “She ruined me life.
But she got ’er two years, the same as me.
The cop. told me she ’ad a beautiful flow
of language and never repeated herself when
she was put in the Black Maria. Julia was
a wonderful woman, as ’andsome as the
Queen o’ Sheba, and terrible passionate in
’er love and ’ate.”
LOUIS ESSON.
Cronin’s Personal Attendant.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“IT’S no good, Chief.” I said it wearily,
| heartily fed up. “We raided last night
as arranged. The same old traces of
dope. A container or two. Same style. Six
arrests and, the worst of it, two white girls
about sixteen or seventeen.”
The chief did not look up for quite a
minute.
“It's discouraging, certainly.” He broke
and shot away at another angle. “To-mor-
row we are going up to Cronin’s place. We
simply must stop this influx of dope into
Sydney. Be here at 9.30 sharp.”
I knew what it meant. If Cronin came
back to his old branch, instead of being
in charge of my department I’d be reduced
to subordinate. Not that I disliked the man,
but dropping back was distasteful. Cer-
tainly the force had missed his astuteness in
my branch, whose special mission was the
watching of such mysterious Celestials as
managed to elude the strictest vigilance of
the authorities, and drift into Sydney by
some uncanny means.
Cronin’s resignation had been unfathom-
able at the time, five years ago, and it had
always puzzled me how a man with such a
head for C.I.D. work could settle down in
even a prosperous market garden.
It had done me vast good, though, when
he resigned, as I was put in full charge of
the section, and till three years ago had
given every satisfaction. Then the first
signs of a new invasion of dope became
apparent, and were now so obvious that
serious alarm had been felt in authoritative
circles.
Three years of baffling search and toil.
Every method of scientific investigation
brought to bear on the means of transit had
resulted in nil. Every trail had dead-ended
in that non-committal “no savvy” of the
yellow men apprehended, until it gave one
the impression that, like other unexplainable
things on earth, it merely existed, untrace-
able to a definite source.
So now the chief must have Cronin take
the matter in hand! Cronin, with his unique
knowledge of Eastern matters, to probe and
pry and peer into those queer haunts which
to so many are mere places in the imagina-
tion, but to others are undeniable facts.
*i : *l :
Midday following found us at Cronin’s
garden, where acres of vegetables, young, old
and older, were being tended, mostly by the
Chinese whom Cronin knew so well.
“Something in cabbages!” exclaimed the
chief, shaking hands with our host and
glancing at the limousine standing close by
the house.
“There is,” assented Cronin heartily.
“But why this unexpected pleasure?”
“Business—help from you if you don’t
mind leaving your greens for a while.”
“Come inside. And don’t pay any atten-
tion to this chap. The poor devil is daft,
and has appointed himself my personal atten-
dant, for what reason I can’t make out; so I
just let him carry on. I’ve told him off till
I’m tired.”
Inside the well-appointed sitting-room Cro-
nin placed the Chinaman in a smaller hall
off the room we occupied, where he could
see everyone without necessarily hearing the
conversation.
The retired C.I.D. man had his back to
this smaller room, with the chief on his left,
and I, facing Cronin, could look past his
chair and see the crazy yellow man, being
the only one able to do so.
The chief stated his business, giving a
brief sketch of the futility of our efforts in
the past three years; and I, to whom the
subject was slightly distasteful, as the chief
unconsciously laid the failure on my shoul-
ders, fell to studying the crazy man.
I had never before seen a mad Chinaman,
and certainly this one was mad. He squinted
at me, pulled horrible faces, and then, as if
waiting till my attention was centred upon
him, commenced what seemed to be a series
of grotesque imitations. First he sat on
the floor and pulled steadily at nothing, con-
tinually looking over his shoulder to see if
I was still watching. Then lie leaned as if
over the side, to put something into the
water, and motioned as if the object drifted
away from him. A dozen times he did this,
each time the object drifting in the same
direction.
Having finished, he looked at me and made
a gesture that to me seemed to say quite
plainly: “Do you follow me?”
I completely forgot lie was mad. As he
progressed my interest increased, my imagi-
nation supplying details, till the whole thing
was clear. But even when my convictions
were confirmed by his most significant sig-
nals, the final shock found me quite unpre-
pared.
It must have taken me minutes to gather
my scattered wits, and recall myself to nor-
mal. The chief was drawing to a close, and
Cronin was shaking his head.
“Not on your life, Chief,” lie said at the
finish. “It means loss of time and money,
and I might, drop all I’ve made in the past
five years. Hunt your crooks alone. I’ve
had my share, and in the future I’m sticking
to this” —and he waved his hand towards
his garden.
“But I guarantee you ample recompense.”
A shake of the head was the only sign of
hearing.
In the lull that followed the deadlock I
asked a question: “Is Sydney your only
market, Cronin?”
“Practically, except the Port. Ships,” he
explained. “I’ve a bit of a branch depot
with an old Chow in charge who supplies
ships requiring greenstuff.”
I nodded and pulled an automatic from
my pocket.
“Don’t move, and I’ll tell you a story
that took three years to write. The chief
character was devilish clever, but now I’m
going to write the end.”
The training of Cronin and the chief
showed well in that second. Either of them
might have been expecting my sudden action,
so unconcerned was their manner.
“What’s the big idea?” inquired the for-
mer blandly.
“You understand perfectly,” I said. “You
know that this visit was a blind to find
proof of the story told us by prisoners taken
in Sydney- Here it is, if you want it.
“Some time ago—five and a half years,
to be exact —a detective of exceptional abili-
ties made a chance discovery of a queer
freak-tide at the Port which invariably car-
ried things to the same point on the beach.
Being, as I have said, a clever man, he
fell to wondering how he could make use
of this queer tide to his own advantage.
Finally he hit upon a plan that baffled the
police for a long time.
“Starting a market garden with what capi-
tal he possessed, he worked the thing up
gradually. Establishing a depot at the Port,
presumably for the supplying of ships with
greenstuff's, he made arrangements with
smuggling crews to have the dope dropped
into the water, where it would wash up con-
veniently for collecting.
“The goods w’ere transferred to his resi-
dence, and here a large number of special
cabbages were selected and treated by the
boss himself. From the butt end of the
heart-stalk a piece shaped like a key-
stone was removed, a container of dope of a
like shape inserted, and a piece of stalk
returned and fastened in such a manner that
nothing short of an examination could have
revealed any peculiarity.
“Further agents in Sydney, mere Chow
retailers, had sufficient knowledge to buy
these specials at any price.”
I paused. The chief never showed by a
sign that the story was a revelation.
Cronin smiled wryly. Then: “Who did
you get to tell you?”
“Three different prisoners,” I bluffed
boldly.
“Three out of four! Good work. I’ll bet
of the four I can name the one who is on
the road to China.”
“Have a guess,” I replied.
“Chen Wun Hing.”
“He is still at large,” I confessed, think-
ing at the time “Not for long.” I would
soon get the others now.
* * * *
We were in headquarters in private before
the chief mentioned the matter and it was
a relief when he asked how I discovered
things.
I told him of the performance of the sup-
posed crazy Chow in the adjoining room —
how he made his actions conclusive when he
produced a container and displayed it to me.
“But by the Lord Harry,” I said, “I
nearly gave things away when he tried to
tell me Cronin was the big head in the smug-
gling game. Such a look of hatred he gave
Cronin. At some time the Chow must have
had a fearful injury done him and took this
opportunity of getting square.”
“Unless he is really mad.”
“I don’t think so, but since we brought
him with us we can prove it. Have him
in.”
In our presence my belief was quite justi-
fied. He told his story in the unbelievable
manner of all slant-eyed sons of the East,
without emotion: “One time Boss wanfcee
lady-servan’. Me tellum my li’l’ siste’. She
welly goo’ cook, wash-up plenty, plenty
wolk. By-’n’-by she come. One night me
catchee Boss my li’l’ siste’. Me fight. No
good. He beatee me whip. By-’n’-by li’l’
siste’ die. Me hate Cronin. Pig! Him
t’inkee me mad. Him mad.”
The chief looked at me when he had gone.
“Queer cusses, Chows. Seem to have no
feelings, yet wait so patiently to square
their bills. Well, I’m glad it’s over; the
others will be pretty well rounded up by
now, and it’s a big load off my mind. But
Cronin of all men—l can hardly believe it
yet!”
GLAMIS.


get
m
WE STIN G H 0 USE
Morse Silent Rocker-Joint
CHAIN DRIVES
Ensure minimum wear—
Maximum life and highest
efficiency.
Chains in stock—wheels manu-
factured to suit requirements.
Write for particulars
and Booklet BM 414.
THE WESTINGHOUSE BRAKE CO.
OF AUSTRALASIA LTD.,
Queensland Agents—HOLMES ® CHURCH, Brisbane.
N.Z. Office~93-107 Featherston Street, Wellington. CONCORD WFST N
Victorian Office—99 Queen Street, Melbourne. *
South Australian Agents: Messrs. ELDER, SMITH & CO., LTD., Adelaid*
S. WALES
e, S.A.
CORKBOARD
We are Sole Agents for High-grade Com-
pressed Corkboard, “Non-Plus-Ultra” and
“Record” Brands, the finest insulation for Cold
Storage Rooms.
Supplied in standard sizes, 3ft. x Ift., thick-
nesses of lin., 2in. and 3in., and easily fixed.
Large Stocks always available.
* _
J. WILDRIDGE 8 SINCLAIR, LTD.,
97 PITT STREET, SYDNEY,
And at Melbourne, Brisbane, Perth and Auckland (N.Z.).
Marine
Engines
SATISFIED users are proofs 1
i of quality. Over 70% of
the leading boat-builders of
theworld regard Kermath Marine
Engines as standard equipment.
All Parts Standard and Inter-
changeable. American Bosch
Magnetos—impulse coupling.
'Ss
3 to 100 H. P.
1 to 6
Cylinder*
4 Cycle
Engines
HALL BROS., LTD.,
Careening Cove (foot of Willoughby St.)
Milson’s Point, North Sydney, N.S.Wi
Kermath Manufacturing Co.
Detroit, Mich., U. S. A,
Cable Address t-»KERMATH
C'U.
V *
If any illustration in “THE BULLETIN” takes your fancy, write
to the MANAGER, who will quote you price for the original.
THE
PLUM
The morning shave is never a
trial if you use a PLUM.
Guaranteed and kept in order for
two years Free.
CRAIG & AITKEN,
654 George Street, Sydney.
i2a
L POST FREE j
m
HARBOR TOURIST TRIPS
Weather and other circumstances permitting.
From Fort Macquarie at 10.15 a.m. and 2.15 p.m.
EVERY TUESDAY AND EVERY THURSDAY.
* Fares: All-day, 2/6: Half-day, 1/6, Children, 1/- and 6d.
Luncheon by reservation at Clifton Gardens Hotel. Afternoon Tea on Board
SPECIAL TRIP EVERY SUNDAY „ 3p No. 6 JETTY, CIRCULAR QUAY
Adults, 1/6. Children, 6d.
Tels.: 86276 (4 lines). Sydney Ferries, Ltd.
A Pill is the best
form of medicine
Handy to use - easy to take
If taken regularly
The best form of medicine
Provided it’s a good pill
BEECHAM’S PILLS are
The tried and trusted remedy
Of countless thousands
Contain finest ingredients
Requisite for the
Toning and strengthening of
Stomach, liver and bowels
Beecham’s Pills
Remove poisons from system
Prevent biliousness
Indigestion, sick headache
And evils which follow
Constipation.
CL PICCc the thaw
wecAanb
o
the Black Cat comes back for the New South Wales Fire Brigades.
£6666 ART UNIO
For the
and Ambulances of the State.
3475
Chances
for £1
ĥ
Kt
Jfr-
\y&
Fellow Art Unionists! I’ve come back! Three months ago I started off scratch to search
for gold to buy the Prizes in the Firemen’s Art Union for the Hospitals and Ambulances. After
days of travelling I neared the Bay of Dogs, and with one bound I landed in New Guinea, where I
rocked the cradle for two. months:. Uni here again, loaded up with prizes for the Lucky Dog that
looks me in the Green Eye. My Slogan is: “A Ticket in the Art Union.is worth Six in the Tram.”
Every Pocket has a silver lining. Try your, luck, and turji the lining into gold. Remember me!
I’m Peter the Luck Bringer! I have spoken.
£6666 IN PRIZES. FIRST PRIZE A SOLID GOLD HELMET VALUED
AT £lOOO.
Fjve Motor Prizes Valued at £2871, and 133 other Prizes Valued at £2795.
TICKETS I/-, SIX TICKETS FOB 5/-, TWELVE TICKET'S FOR 10/-,'
TWENTY-FIVE TICKETS FOR £l.
In addition, every ticket purchased entitles the holder to answer the following Shakspearean
Cryptogram, and to participate in a further distribution of £.lO in Prizes.
THIS Helmet that shines OUT like burnished gold in times of danger, we FIND was
in use in THE heroic ages, AND it still REMAINS the symbol of deeds of renown. No
matter what the CAUSE may be, when fires break out, when danger threatens life and
limb, WE look to the men in the golden helmets to EFFECT a save. And so it has come to
pass THAT all OF us NOW look to the Fire Brigades to help the Hospitals. Send your
Shillings along, for they help you and they help the community you live in.
Assemble the 12 words printed in Capital Letters and make them read as a quotation from
“Hamlet,” Act 11. Enclose the answer in an envelope with a shilling for a ticket in the Art Union.
The answers will be placed in a separate barrel, and the drawing will take place immediately after
the Art Union.
FIRST PRIZE FOR THE ANSWER TO THE CRYPTOGRAM, £2O; Second Prize, £5; Five
Consolation Prizes of £1 each; Twenty Consolation Prizes of 10/- each; and Forty Consolation
Prizes of 5/- each.
The Prizes .will be awarded according to the way in which the correct answers are drawn out
of the barrel. Every Ticket purchased through the post will carry an answer. Send on separate
slips as many answers as you take tickets, and remember—2s tickets for £l, 12 Tickets for 10/-
6 Tickets for 5/- ~
For tickets write to the Secretary of the Fire Brigades Art Union, Circular Quay Station, Sydney
N.S.W. Write plainly; state whether Mr., Mrs. or Miss. Jr
Drawing takes place at Fire Brigade Headquarters on August 10. Positively no postponement
Closing date, July 27.
Send Stamped and Addressed Envelopes for Ticket and Result Slip.
2 J- J. NEVILLE, Hon Sec.
QO
AO e 3 6>
S e
f
c* 6
4$
.- ■ .;• .-• Ad****
cyp < .•■** .-•'v
..•*’ .••• vvV V v J*
#■’ ..** ..••* c^Sf***


The whisky with the small
label and the big reputation
-that's Johnme Walker
Bom 1820 " Still going Strong
It’s easy to see why
‘JOHNNIE WALKER
has the largest sale of
any whisky in the world
Y
fN
/
Sid
’ll
W&M 2 '^S
91
A
%* . \
:: iw
II
5?
v .^•••?\'\!
M
■te
i
( > k
a M
m
award
S32SS •So^22&*«
\\ 1*
w
