

1 nrjyrffif
Br
The Genuine LAGER
DINNER ALE
AUSTRALIA'S BEST
DONT WISH FOE THE BEST- GET IT !
The Bulletin
Vol. 48.—N0, 2463.
See page 36,
Thursday, April 28, 1927-
Price 6cL
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.


WITHIN THE SHADOW,
By MAURICE C. GROOM. '
A book devoted to Australia’s problems.
6/- (Postage 3d.), ALL BOOKSELLERS.
THE New Library Catalogue is now
ready and will be forwarded post free, with full
particulars, on application to
DYMOCK’S BOOK ARCADE, LTD.,
428 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
LYSAGHT
O
K
AUSTRALIA
Support Australian Industries.
All users of Galvanized Iron should specify
Lysaght’s Australian-made
Galvanized Corrugated Iron.
Manufactured wholly from Australian Raw
Materials, and equal to the best imported.
Visitors to Brisbane! Book up at the
HOTEL CECIL
(FIRST CLASS)
Reasonable Tariff—Good
V,
V
Em
l
:
OPlt
mm
m
ttf.W
Self-filling
SWAN ”
130
22/-
Fair Lady,—
Times and ways have changed
since cc Swan 55 Pens were a novelty
thirty-five years ago. You have
more freedom in your correspon-
dence as well as your pastimes,
your sphere is wider.
There are cc Swan ” Pens made
for you—the size to go in your
handbag—along with your cheque
book—elegant pens but practical,
efficient and lasting.
cc Swan ’’ Pens form delightful
Wedding Gifts—make a note of it.
swan;
.
u Swan ” Self-filling Fountpens from 17/6 upwards
<c Swan ” Pens, « Swan ” Ink, cc Blackbird ” Pens
Of Stationers and Jewellers
sdf
Mabie, Todd & Co. Ltd.,Swan House, 133 & 13SOxford St.,London,W.l
Factory : Swan Works, London, N .W.
Agents and Repair Service Depot:
PHIPSON & COMPANY, LTD.,
Broughton House, 181 Clarence Street, Sydney.
sdfs
rm
-
56
7
i
Sold Everywhere.
PRICE I/.
&
*!*
m
4&* Asl‘^»
df
The Red Page
The Voice of the Oyster
Without pretending to be a prophet, I fore-
cast the demise of the poet. Poetry will live
on, but in form altogether different from
that which we accept to-day. This is no
mere guesswork; it is the only logical con-
clusion to be reached from an earnest study
of the volumes variously labelled “Poetry
in 1907,” “Poetry of To-day,” “An
Anthology of Modern Poetry,” edited* by
Septimus Stanza, and such-like. Anyone
who reads these volumes and doesn’t get the
trend of where poetry is heading for should
stick to such orthodox *stylists as Shelley
and the editor of the Girls’ Own, Annual.
Do not mistake me; I am not'bewailing
the prospective demise of the poet. Far
from it. lam exultant. lam a modern
of the moderns. Here, now, is a little thing
which I dashed off on a kerbstone the other
day:—
The oyster on the rocks
Doesn’t have to wash his socks
Because there’s water round the rocks;
And, anyhow, oysters don’t wear socks.
Is that not modern? Imagine Keats doing
it! Yes, imagine—that is the word. Imagin-
ing is the key to modern poetry; in the old,
imagination; in the modern, imagining. For
instance, take that powerful little thing of
mine and test your ability to appreciate
modern poetry: “The oyster on the rocks”
—what panamoric splendors does not that
conjure up. . . dawn at Woy Woy; fishing
boats in the offing; nets trailing in the
water; boys bending to open the bivalves!
“Doesn’t have to wash his socks”—
bachelors of the Back, o’ Bourke steal-
ing furtively down from the crowded
firelight to wash socks in the dry Darling!
If you cannot see the tragedy in that you
didn’t wear socks when you were out on
the Darling, and you should stick to such
stuff as Hamlet is made of. Again,
“Because there’s water round the rocks.”
How much water? How many rocks?
Swinburne would have counted them for
you—left nothing to the imagining. He
will die for that, and it serves him right.
Of course, as any modern will tell you,
my poem is spoilt by the detail in the
last line; but my defence is that the world
is nut yet sufficiently advanced to permit
even the greatest of us to do away with
detail altogether. But that day is coming;
we are arriving. Soon the poet will be
dead, and the making of poetry will be left
to the reader on the lines I have indicated.
We will give the bare bones, the impressions,
and let the reader’s imagining have a chance.
Literature will be turned completely turtle;
the reader himself will be the poet. Then
shall the great Shakspeare of the moderns
arise, strip away the absurd embellishments
that have been hung about the slopes of
Parnassus, climb to the uttermost shining
peaks, and through a megaphone (as used
by Miss Edith Sitwell) blare out to the
world the mystic and marvellous word
OYSTERS
and let that stand as the greatest poem
of all time.
CECIL MANN.
The Gentleman’s Agreement
All through the controversy over the very
important Archibald Prize, it is remarkable
that the artists’ point of view is never
stated. The whole discussion is conducted,
spasmodically too, by outside observers,
who can only guess at the artists’ motives
and opinions. Mr. Broomfield’s recent
utterance, supported by his personal know-
ledge of Archibald’s impulse in the begin-
ning, was particularly valuable, and cleared
the air. He washes his hands, though, of
the artists’ own problem, saying that Archi-
bald was to blame 1 for not making his
intentions clearer; and he leaves us, after
all, to infer that the artists, lacking Archi-
bald’s verbal prohibition, have simply run
away with the whole scheme. Then cofnes
“A.H.A.,” with his proposal of a “gentle-
man’s agreement,” by which artists could
be shown, very tenderly, something they
have known and shirked all along, namely,
that Archibald intended the persons painted
to be eminent Australians, whose portraits,
when collected, would form at least the
nucleus of a National Portrait Gallery. .
The artists have not joined in the-con-
troversy nor explained their position, but
they may have given their answer by their
own medium. Their brush has clearly said
that the cracks and leaks in Archibald’s
phrasing have made it possible for the artist
to paint just whomsoever he pleases. This
being so, he would rather paint someone
Avho would afterwards take the portrait off
his hands for a consideration: that is, he
usually paints a person who could in any
case afford to order his portrait. Now the
people who can afford to order a portrait
are not always the same people as those
who are doing the most important and
distinguished work in the country. The
creative people are often too busy, in their
own to make money: that is well
known. Therefore the distinguished per-
sons remain, on the whole, unpainted. The
very state of affairs which Archibald with
his Prize had intended to remedy!
Another point stressed by “A.H.A.” is
that even the winning portrait does not
become the property of the nation, without
the accident of special purchase bv one
gallery or another. So that Archibald’s
Pantheon,” even if the “right” person had
been painted, would remain as far off as
ever. A matter of faulty wording again?
Undoubtedly Archibald, the man who said
he wanted every Australian writer to have
two chickens in his pot, wished to make
the artist’s lot easier. At the time when
his will was made, though, .if not now,
most artists would consider their year well
salaried if it brought them the Archibald
four or five hundred pounds. It is difficult
to believe that Archibald intended the win-
ner to make another sum by selling the
picture to the highest bidder, the result
being that the Prize pictures may be dis-
persed in every direction.
Archibald s bequest has not so far pro-
vided litigation. It has not been contested:
it has simply been legally misinterpreted
and misapplied. Eager and benevolent,
Archibald felt that there would be many
like-minded Australians who would meet
his gift half-way. He probably thought
that once the desired portraits began to
accumulate (he certainly conceived of them
as an accumulation, not as a scattering)
someone would come forward and endow
a building expressly to hold them—his
‘'Pantheon'’ again. Then he would expect
the judges to have their minds balanced
as his own was, desiring goodness in the
painting and in the subject—that is, with
aims equally jesthetic and historical. He
wanted painted records to be made of, say,
Norman Lindsay. Douglas Mawson and
Marshall Hall; and he wanted them painted
as well as could be managed by the aid of
a large prize.
Suppose the trustees were to restate, in
clearer terms, what is already cleffi- to the
man m the street, that portraits of Mr.
Nobody-at-all are not' of interest to this
particular bequest, then the real study of
pur memorable figures would begin. The
immediate result would bd fewer entries for
the Prize, as artists would not hope to dis-
pose of their pictures to wealthy sitters.
On the other hand, suppose several good
portraits of the same interesting subject
were produced, surely such portraits would
be bought by various State or municipal
galleries/-as. portraits of Mr. Nobody-at-all
would not be! Each general gallery needs
its portrait-gallery, recording the life of its
valued citizens. Has Melbourne any por-
trait or bust of the late Alberto Zelman
for instance?
It remains to be seen whether “A.H.A.’s”
appeal for a “gentleman’s agreement” will
bear fruit. Mr. Broomfield seffined to show
that Archibald’s phrasing had left an im-
mense opening for consistent “ungentle-
manly conduct. The man in the street,
meanwhile, simply wonders when the con-
cert is going to begin. Of all the Archibald
prize-winning portraits so far, can it be said
that one of them would not have existed
but for the Prize? Can it be said that they
have begun to enrich the nation by a series
ot significant portraits? Is there any
responsibility for even housing them to-
gether, so that the public can gain some
idea of what is considered good portrait-
painting in itself? Finally, is it impossible
tor the trustees to care simultaneously for
the two parallel aims of Archibald,-historical
and aesthetic? If not, will they say so
openly? ‘
LALGE.
Mencken and Our Uncle
People \yho get their notions of the
United States from President Coolidge’s
White House revelations, the speeches of
Rotarians and the Qables miss a great deal
of quiet amusement. For gaps in the por-
trait of the American people, one must
consult the works of those two Rabelaisian
and Hogarthian pictorialists, Mencken and
Nathan.- These artist’s have been busily
engaged portraying the human fauna of
their native land for two decades, but only
in the last few years have they been able
to acquire a canvas large enough, a box of
colors sufficiently diversified and brush
hands technically skilled enough for their
needs. Their box of colors consists of the
S ar &°t °f Berlin, Vienna, Paris
and New York acquired in a long acquaint-
ance with the cabarets and theatres of those
cities; they acquired their technical profici-
ency in the hurly-burly of American jour-
nalism, and they wove their own canvas
with the American Mercury, a green-
backed monthly which is as like its Lon-
don namesake as Limbiirger is like tinned
cream cheese.
The American Mercury started in a
small way about three years ago, when
the country that gave it unwilling, harbor-
age was at the height of its post-war orgy
of self-gratulation, and it has reached a
circulation of close on 200,000. In the
shrieking symphony of American commer-
cial journalism it struck a new note. The
Comstocks, the Babbitts and the Prohibi-
tionists reared at the sound like startled
malres and forthwith attempted to suppress
it. The holy crusade culminated in
Mencken, editor, making an appointment
with the unofficial tyrant who guards
(Continued on page 5.)


L
a
V
Anthony Horderns’
are Sole New South Wales Agents for
John Deere’s Agricultural Implements
John TJeere No. 999 Accurate Drop Corn Planter.
Plants any kind of corn, beans, t jteas and sorghum. Can
be changed to drop two, three or foiif seeds.. Pie hill as
desired. Nine drilling distances can be obtained with
one plate. Simplicity of operation is a
feature of this planter. Price ....
£37/10/-
The man on the land who purchases
frugally will find much to interest him in
the comparison ©f Anthony Horderns’
values. The low prices and deperidable
qualities offer you considerable savings.
The workmanship of the Farming Imple-
ments sold by Anthony Horderns’ is of
such an excellent standard that absolute
satisfaction is assured one. We invite
you to inspect our display of Farming
Implements while in Sydney. It will prove
to be of much interest to you.
John Deere’s Solid Steel Crucible
Shares are only obtainable at
Anthofty Horderns’.
John Deere Shellers, all steel, built to give
durability. One hole. .... £5 15-
£l5
2-hole shellers. Price
John Deere
New Bantam
Plough.
sdf
sdfdsf
John Deere New Bantam Plough. All steel, strong and
beam is high arched, giving ample clearance; steel mouldboard,
7in. cut.
_£4;
9in. cut
..£4/17/6;
Circular Coulters, Price
light, channel steel
crucible steel share.
Wheels 12/6 extra.
25/-
John Deere
Red Jacket Plough.
sdf
John Deere Red Jacket Plough. All steel, channel steel beam, high curve,
givin° - plenty of throat clearance. Prevents clogging in trashy ground. Mou d-
board is of soft centre steel, double-shinned to resist wear. Heavy one-piece steel
frame, crucible steel share.
.£8; i2in. cm £9/2/6;
25/-
9m. cut £6/15/-;
Wheels 12/6 extra.
Circular Coulters. Price
I.oin. cut
John Deere
Dain Vertical
Lift Mowers
f a !'■
The John Deere Dain Vertical Lift Mower. Main Frame is made of one solid
heavy ribbed casting, fitted with wide-tyred wheels. Foot and hand levers ar;
convenient to the operator. Tilting rod is adjustable so that the cutter bar can
be set for either close or coarse cutting as desired.
Dain Mower, 3J feet, with shafts, weight 7201 b. jpOQ
Price • • •
£32
Dain Mower, 44 feet, with pole, weight 7441 b.
Price
John Deere
No. 226 Com Drills.
■ CIMHIgg
HUM
'Write for Illustrated
Price List of
Agricultural
Implements. A copy
will be posted free.
John Deere No. 226 Cora Drills. Fitted with tip-over hopper, steel drive wheel,
chain drive. Built to withstand severe usage. Q/E>/»
Price 0/
ANTHONY HORDERN & Sons Limiied.
Postal Address:
Box 2712 C G.P.O.
BRICKFIELD HIUL. SYDNEY.
Telephone: City 9440.


Engineered to Provide
Lowest Maintenance
and Operation Cost
w
1)1
NOW—THE ESSEX SUPER-SIX
Entirely new in Appearance and Performance
with New Bodies in a variety of Color
ESSEX SEDAN £345-
ESSEX COACH £325
ESSEX 4-PASSENGER SPEEDSTER £255.
The Super-Six principle, released to full capacity in
Hudson, is also amazingly revealed in the Essex Super-
Six. In performance as well as appearance, the Essex
Super-Six is an entirely new car
It reveals the capacity of the Super-Six principle. It
attains an engineering triumph in low maintenance
and operating cost.
It possesses such stamina that 50 miles an hour all day
long is an easy accomplishment. And so nimble and
alert is its action that no car will surpass the quickness
with which it may be driven through traffic or in tour-
ing, whether the trip is one of a few city blocks or
hundreds of miles. To both driver and passengers, there
is rare comfort in any kind of going.
Unusual accessibility means big savings in replacement,
service and all shop work. Economy in fuel and oil is
also a notable feature of the new Essex Super-Six.
It holds further exclusive advantages in its Super-Six
motor Four years of development has resulted in a
chassis that would permit full use of its capacity. In the
Essex Super-Six, performance, safety and reliability are
realized to a degree never approached in a car of its
size or price.
There are five new bodies on the Essex Super-Six
chassis—all beautiful, all smart in line, finish, appoint-
ment and upholstery They are easily the paramount
values of Essex history
70 %
Australian Built
Under this combination of resources Ameri-
can and Australian industry has achieved
manufacturing economies that no other
builder for the Australian market shares.
Essex 4-Pass. Speedster £255
Essex Coacli £325
Essex Coupe £335
Essex Sedan £345
Prices at some points slightly higher.
THE HUDSON MOTOR CAR COMPANY, Detroit. Michigan, U.S.A.
DALGETY & CO.. LTD.
Phillip Street, Sydney.
MOTORS. LIMITED.
Flinders Street, Adelaide
VEAL’S MOTORS PTY.. LTD.,
Exhibition Street, Melbourne
AUTOS, LTD.,
9ay Street, Perth.
LEADER MOTORS, LTD.,
Adelaide Street, Brisbane,
fl. C. REATHORN & CO.. LTD.,
Hobart and Launceston.
DEALERS EVERYWHERE-BUY FROM YOUR LOCAL DEALER.


Travel in Luxury by
ORIENT LINE
The three new 20,000-ton Liners and the
fourth now building are fitted with more single-
berth cabins than any other vessels afloat.
Their vast decks for recreation and exercise,
their palatial public rooms and their excellent
cabin accommodation, ensure a very comfort-
able and enjoyable voyage.
Write for Illustrated Literature,
2,4, 6 SPRING STREET, SYDNEY.
Branches and Agencies throughout Australia and New Zealand.
American morals by a process of mtimidat-
incr booksellers. The appointment was
fixed for a street corner in Boston, where
Mencken solemnly bought a copy of his
own paper from a newsboy, and thus broke
the law forbidding its sale in that one-time
centre of American light and learning. In the
subsequent judicial proceedings Mencken
scored a triumph, the Judge declaring that
as the journal was of a literary nature the
people whose standards it attacked would
never read it and even if they did they
would not understand it.
Mencken, despite his pose of cynical and
robustious indifference, is obviously some-
thing of a Puritan and hopes for a finer
world. Nathan, his assistant, harbors no
such illusions. He is content to paint Ins
picture in broad lines of roaring comedy
and leave any moral that may be in the
study to any observer who happens to be
a moralist. One of the most effective
devices in chiaroscuro employed by the two
painters is their monthly column entitled
“Americana.” Even Babbitt cannot ques-
tion the truthfulness of this particular
passage in interpretation, because “Ameri-
cana” consists of unexpurgated extracts
from Babbitt’s own sayings and doings
culled from his own newspapers and public
utterances. One extract will illustrate the
nature of the lot: —
Associated Press despatch from the town
of Goshen:
“A. E. Hundred, gladiolus grower of
Goshen, has been banned from the strict
orthodox church he attended. The church
cast out Mr. Hundred because authorities
decided that in hybridising his gladioli to
produce new varieties he was interfering
with the divine scheme of things!”
Besides his comic strip work in the Ameri-
can Mercury, Mencken has poured forth a
long series of verbal cartoons on his favor-
ite subject, homo Americanus, in book
form. “Prejudices” (five series) provide
rapid sketches of the species from every
available angle. “A Book of Prefaces” and
“In Defence of Women” are particular
studies. In his latest effort, Notes on
Democracy (Alfred A. Ivnopl), he has col-
lected all his preliminary observations into
one large full-length portrait. This work
comprises 212 pages of invective against
the current political and social dogmas
and practices of the United States. Carica-
ture, if you will, but caricature that never
seems to stray from the model’s essential
anatomy. Fear, according to Mencken, is
the fundamental emotion of the American
democracy. Rotary, which is merely a
retreat from the facts into the thicket of
optimism; the American Legion, which in
the name of patriotism hunted hyphenated
Americans down long after the war; the Ku
Klux Klan and Coolidgism, which is the
principle that a man of the mob can lead
the mob, are only sublimations of the
primitive reaction to the dangers and diffi-
culties of passage through this thorny
world. Fear being the mainspring of their
lives, American democrats are no sooner
presented with liberty than they proceed,
at the instance of professional bogey men.
to stamp it out—not only the freedom of
other people, but their own. They were
terrorised into denying themselves the
right of having an occasional long beer
by being told that if they retained the
right they would abuse it. They elected
President Wilson to keep them out of the
war, and when he landed them in it they
cheered him as soon as they learned that
the draft would exempt every nine men
out of ten. They persecute men who
attempt to teach the truth about evolu-
tion and even rise to the sublime absurdity
of gaoling the person caught reading their
own Bill of Rights.
Of course, Mencken’s indictment of
democracy is general. It applies to every
democratic country, though Britain he finds
less pathologically far gone because it
still retains a modicum of awe for the
superior man.
M.G.S.
Another “Close-up” of Woman
It is a toss-up whether Shakspeare or
Woman is the subject most written about
in England; but the bibliography of the
former is small compared with that of the
latter, if foreign writers are included. The
curiosity of Adam has been handed down
the ladder of heredity; and no man is
immune to the fascination of the female.
It is the fashion to-day to look at things
through the microscope. Woman has thus
been scientifically sectioned. She has been
psycho-analysed, and all her secrets have
been laid bare. She has been measured and
weighed, photographed and chronicled, until
there is nothing about her that is unknown.
Anthony Ludovici recently scattered the
skittles of Weininger: and now Bernhard
Bauer, a Viennese gynaecologist, has pub-
lished a series of “close-ups” of Woman
(Jonathan Cape, 1927), taking his cinema-
tograph into the clinic. The knowledge of
the centuries passes under his review; and
man’s enigmatic partner is imprisoned in
print for all who care to explore.
Yet one wonders whether the labor of
writing it all was not spent in vain. One
finds nothing new in this female physio-
logy; St. Bernard of Clairvaux probably
knew more about the essential nature of
woman. Journalists like H. L. Mencken
and the late W. L. George have shown
deeper psychological insight than any
gynaecologist that has so far appeared in
print. It is only because man generalU sees
woman as a kind of El Dorado of his dreams
that these text-books are written and read.
The mighty male is pretty generally hood-
winked by'the miracle he marries; and so
he reads these learned male treatises search-
ing expectantly for revelations, the woman
is wiser: she is seldom fooled by the fellow
she fascinates. Under the niagnate she sees
the mountebank; and behind our bombast
she beholds the booby. Women don’t write
text-books about Man. They don’t need to.
They know that their whiskered wiseacres
are no camouflaged archangels, but stalwart
sentimentalists, as gullible as they are
grumpy.
R.S.E.
An American Tragedy
According to the late George Henry Lewes,
Goethe and Shakspeare both belonged to
the objective class of intellect: —
“Goethe's constant striving was to study
Nature so as to see her directly, and
not through the mists of fancy or through
the distortions of prejudice: to look at
men and into them; to apprehend things
as they were. Hence we see why lie was
led to portray men and women instead of
demi gods and angels; no Posas and Theklas,
hut Egmonts and Clarchens. Hence also
his portraitures carry their moral with them,
in them, but have no moral superposed—-no
accompanying verdict as from an outside
judge. Shakspeare, too, was content to
let pictures of life carry their own moral
with them. He uttered no moral verdict,
he was no Chorus preaching the text of what
was pictured.”
One cannot help feeling that the mind
of Theodore Dreiser, the American novelist,
must be similar in many ways to those
of the two great writers mentioned. At
least, all that Lewes says of their two minds
would apply with equal force to Dreiser’s.
In An American Tragedy, which G. C.
Dixon reviewed for us here four months
ago, he draws in relentless, microscopic
detail the portrait, from one end of life to
the other, of a commonplace young man
living through commonplace surroundings.
But he never, from one end of the story
to the other, stands aside to philosophise, to
moralise. He is never the scientist, never the
pathologist, never the psycho-analyst, but
always, and always magnificently, the artist.
A wise man has said that “to know all
is to forgive all.” Having read this tre-
mendously told story of Clyde Griffith’s life
one does not know all. But one knows
much, and forgives much.
Looking about for a work to compare
this million-word novel with, one thinks
of Victor Hugo’s “Les Miserables.” It is
a vast work, too, with a tremendous
emotional appeal. But it is greatly different.
It stirs the emotional deeps of man through
his imagination. Dreiser reaches the
same emotions through the thinking mind.
Victor Hugo might be said to present
commonplace people and things to you
telescopically, whilst Dreiser presents the
same people and things to you micro-
scopically. Victor Hugo turns his vision
on a commonplace man in a commonplace
world, and the man becomes an Olym-
pian and the world an Olympian world.
Through Dreiser’s vision the man becomes
an infinitesimal but essential part of a vast
whole—a whole that is deeply embedded in
the past and the future, and the world he
suggests is even vaster than Victor Hugo’s
Olympian one. We project ourselves imagi-
natively into Victor Hugo’s magnificent
conceptions and become exalted. He shows
us the selves we might possibly be and a.
world that might possibly be. Dreiser’s
method of exalting us emotionally is
altogether different. He shows us the very
small, but always essential, purposeful,
Fate-touching beings we are, and the world
that really is.
We live in a practical world in a practi-
cal age, and to live we have to be more
or less practical. The fatalist who practises
fatalism dies. We have to put food into
our stomachs, and the murderer must be
hanged. But it is doubtful if the human
race would survive if it were not that its
instincts are always hinting at something
far beyond all this practicality. We have
all, as the poet puts it, got two soul sides
—the world-facing side and the side that,
like the other side of the moon, the people
who make up the world never see. And
it is our world-facing side that we will be
judged by. But the artist comes and
describes the side of him that faces away
from the world. And we read and see how
like this side is to the side we keep con-
cealed. We are comforted, exalted, wonder-
fully less lonely. He shows us that what
our instincts, in some way or other, are
eternally hinting at, is true. Possibly that
is what he is for.
ALAN D. MICKLE.
Beethoven and Bach
’ Keith Barry lately made some curious
comparisons between Bach and Beethoven
which seem to indicate that he has not yet
realised the wonderful humanity of the
great Cantor of Leipsic. Bach belonged to
a less restless age than Beethoven, and there-
fore perhaps his work must wait a while
before its appeal becomes universal. Both
composers represent the highest peaks of
two different types of music. Each took
the forms invented and worked out by his
predecessors, and made them vehicles to
express his astonishingly rich and varied
inner life. What Beethoven did for the
Sonata form, Bach did for the Prelude
and Fugue and the Oratorio. They used
these forms to express the richest, most
varied, and deepest human emotions.
Wagner never wrote anything more dra-
matic, rich in characterisations or in variety
and warmth of human feeling than Bach’s
"Passion according to St. Matthew.” His
Preludes for the Clavier are as individual,
expressive and poetic as Chopin’s Preludes,
and they express quite as great a variety
of mood. The great Organ Toccata and
Fugue in D minor is as full of man’s
struggle with Fate as Beethoven’s C minor
Symphony, while the passionate intensity
of the Chromatic Fantasia and Fugue is not
surpassed by Wagner’s .“Tristan and Isolda.”
Unfortunately, we persist in looking only
at the outside of Bach’s music. No one has
yet done for him what Wagner jd*d for
Beethoven —released him from the conven-
tional manner of performance in whi(jh tradi-
tion has imprisoned his works. Marshall Hall
was everywhere recognised as a greg,t inter-
preter of Beethoven, but that gregt con-
ductor was equally fine as an interpreter
of Bach. Unfortunately, only his gtudents
benefited directly by this, as he reached the
public chiefly through the medium of the
orchestra. His students, however,* were
made to realise the glowing warmth and
human sympathy of Bach, as well as the
infectious gaiety of his dances. Bqth men
had the reserve and restraint which ever
marks the greatest art, and though they
made their forms absolutely plastic, sub-
ordinate and expressive, they never broke
them, or degenerated into the formlessness
and confusion which distinguishes so much
art of the moment. Both were equally at
home in the highest realms attainable by
the human spirit, and for that reason belong
to the small band of immortals.
H. J. WOLFE.
A Satchel of Books
The Pageant of Pain, and Other Verses,
by John L. Glascock (E. A. Vidler, Mel-
bourne). F.a.q. Australian verses, showing
some facility and a good deal of thought.
Out of Bounds, by Sybil Campbell Leth-
bridge (Methuen). A child wandering from
her nurse loses her way and, taking refuge
in a barn, there comes upon a secret meeting
of lovers, the discovery of which affects the
tenor of her life. A story of boudoir inter-
ests.
Mrs. Newdigatc’s Window, by C. Lenanton
(Fisher Unwin). A quiet tale in which grey
patches take the place of purple. The
interest turns on the contrasting characters
and fortunes of two women, one the pro-
duct of pre-war days and the other
of the restless period that followed. A con-
fection of old lace and georgette.
Shakspeare’s Workmanship, by Arthur
Quiller-Couch (Fisher Unwin). A collection
of papers read in the University of Cam-
bridge. “They seek to discover, in some of
his plays, just what Shakspeare was trying
to do as a playwright.” The author, in ar
interesting .personal note, states that had he
to choose which one of all the books in the
world should be his, he would select not the
“Odyssey,” nor the “iEneid,” nor “The
Divine Comedy",” nor “Paradise Lost,” nor
“Othello,” nor “Hamlet,” nor “Lear,” but
“The Tempest,” because “it forces diviner
tears, tears for sheer beauty; with a royal
sense of this world, and how it passes away,
with a catch at the heart for what is t<»
come.... We feel that we are greater than
we know.”
A Companion io Mr. Wells's “Outline of
History,’’ by Hilaire Belloc (Sliced and
Ward). Wells and Belloc are both lusty
combatants and can give and take, though
Belloc has more of the Castilian manner in
the handling of his rapier. The object of
this work as stated by its author is “to
follow for Catholic readers Mr. Wells’s ‘Out-
line of History’ ; to point out the principal
popular errors, most of them now out of
date, which its author has repeated, and to
state the opposing truths with their support-
ing evidence and reason.”
Third Congress of the Universities of the
Empire, 1926 (Bell and Sons). A report of
the proceedings of the Congress held at Cam-
bridge at which delegates from all the Aus-
tralian States and the Dominion, as well as
from all other centres of university life
throughout the Empire, were present. Con-
tained in many of the papers read before
Congress are references to matters of interest
in Australian university life.
Numerous Treasure, by Robert Keable(Con-
stable). Since Padre Iveable went out with
his gun and shot “Simon Called Peter” into
the body of the pew-renters, he has done no-
thing more daring and perhaps more brutally
truthful than the present novel. “Treasure”
is a product of the South Sea islands without
a scrap of conventional morality to cover her
passionate little soul. If not chaste she
is charming, and a young man from Cam-
bridge finds her irresistible.
Ten Weeks with Chinese Bandits, b>
Harvey J. Howard (Angus and Robertson).
An Australian edition of an interesting
volume of adventures by an American
medical man captured by bandits in northern
China. The author found his medical know-
ledge of such great service to him that he
was proffered the headship of the band, an
honor he declined. Simply told, with illu-
strative sketches and photographs.
Mary's Ron, by Ada Barnett (Allen and
Unwin). Mary, Lady Ashinghurst, a young
and physically perfect woman, faces the duty
of giving an heir to her husband. “All her
fine, clean body cried out against it. The
son of an old worn-out man, conceived in
disgust and horror —would she hate the child
too?” Mary solves the problem by an act
of infidelity. On coming of age, influenced
by the spiritual force of character in an
intimate companion, Michael the son of Mary
sells his possessions and follows in the steps
of the Christ. A book transcending the realm
of reality, but written with a keen sense of
beauty and a charm of style.
The Moon Minstrel, by Marie Bjelke
Petersen (Hutchinson). The story of a
deserted child found under a myrtle-tree on
a bush road in Australia who from the
fantastic influence of Ghost Gully drew the
breath of music. IIow she found her true
love and became a great musician after
passing through the trials and adventures
which are so often deemed essential to the
padding of a novel is told in simple, un-
affected language with faithful local color.


I The Wonderful “Lock-Grip” Wire Strainer
(boo
Simple, Powerful, Rapid,
TIME, MONEY AND ENERGY SAVED.
Here is a tool that absolutel}' eclipses anything
invented for the straining of fencing -wires.
It saves hours on a job. Joins, tightens and
repairs with the utmost ease. Its enormous
concentrated power makes light of any fencing
work—the hardest tensile wire cannot slip
through the “Lock-Grip.”
Weighs only 41b., measures 14 inches. It can
be carried in your pocket, yet it will pull vour
motor-car out of a bog.
Get one and test it—there’s no risk. Failu-e
or breakage impossible. Thousands sold —
everyone delighted.
Price 30/- each. Victorian postage, 1/6:
Interstate, 2/8 (plus exchange).
Obtainable everywhere, or write the Agents:—
S. COHEN, SONS & CO. PTY., LTD.,
Hardware Merchants,
262 Queer. Street, MELBOURNE.
.4 nents wanted where, not re.wexented.
t
•jX
ill
BEST OF ALL
TO MARK LINEN
or any Woollen Article- invaluable
to every Household. Travellers
Scnool Outfits. &c. Any name
woven in fast color.
A few shtches and they’re o>i ''
G
D S Evans
Actual Size. Style No. 2
The Prices are moderate
12 doz. 7/6, 6 dor. 5/-, 3 dot. 3,8
SOLD BY ALL BEST DRAPERS,-
Write for Pattern Sheet to
J. & J. CASH Pty. Ltu.
85 Cubitt Street.
Richmond.
■“ Melbourne
S
“THE WOMAN’S MIRROR,”
PRICE 3d .
Contains everything a woman needs to know.
A ROYAL
smokeH
Ail Good
Hotels and
Tobacconists,
u
each.
ff-
25 Cigars,
12/6
50,25 9
100, 46/-
Post paid to
any address.
Sampler Box
containing two
cigars, Is. Post
free.
Craig gAitken
6548 Georgs Street,
Sydney,
Distributors for ciula
Reil Cigar Factory.
—a
n
Golf:The shoes
to wear!
They must be such as will allow
unhindered movement of the
muscles of the feet. They must
be lightweight, too. hard-wearing,
supple, smart-looking.
Abbey Golf Shoes meet every con-
dition. They’re designed on special
lasts and fit the feet naturally.
1 he soles are cushioned with tough
crepe rubber, sewn to a strong
leather foundation that preserves
the shape of the shoes. Willow
calf of a rich brown tone is used
for the uppers, which are finished
very neatly, as will be seen in the
photo.
Order by Post
No doubt about obtaining the
right measure. These shoes are
made in full and half sizes—each
in three fittings, narrow, medium
and wide. Specify width when
ordering. Price 47/6 per pair.
ABBEY
Established over 80 years,
313 George Street and
224 Pitt Street,
SYDNEY.
LlB.
JOHNSTONE*
TUTOR
EASIEST AND BEST.
Price 3/-; posted 3/3,
All Music Sellers, or
MELBOURNE _ SYDNEY _ ADELAIDI
(F.
Kite
o
r7\
r
Cuticura Promotes
Permanent Hair Health
Shampoos with Cuticura Soap,
with light applications of Cuticura
Ointment when necessary, tend to
free the scalp of dandruff and minor
eruptions, and to establish a per-
manent condition of hair health.
Soap Is., Talcumls.3d„ Ointment Is. and
j Soap and Ointment ad-
R.Towns & Co., Sydney, N.S.W.”
Cuticura Shaving Stick Is. 6d.
VARIOUS VERSE
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Independence.
I sowed my sorrow, and a crop of stars
Sprang from the soil I tended with my
tears,
Thank God, Who gives forgetting, I am free,
And with your broken spell go all my
fears.
And yet, because I know there are no chains
Chafing at wrist and ankle, I’m bereft
Of something I had never thought to prize—
My bondage. I have only freedom left.
MAORILAND. BETTIE RlDDELL.
The Trees Enchanted.
Above the amber morning mist the grey
gums towering high,
Toss glinting banners tipped with gold
against the morning sky.
When there I walk in solitude I feel but
cannot see
Something imprisoned in the wood that
strives to reach to me;
That calls one in an ancient tongue along the
whispering hollow,
In language old my stumbling mind gropes
vainly back to follow.
Ilalf-pagan longing unexpressed, low mur-
murings apart,
Something that stings the eyes to tears and
catches at the heart.
\ isions that slip the mesh of mind, remote
and out of reach,
Strange thoughts elusive that escape the
imperfect snare of speech.
Oh, valley of the talking trees, when
seasons many go,
Shall I be too a part of these and know the
things they know?
The things the south wind whispers and
the singing waters say
On nights of star-dust powdered thick along
the Milky Way?
Nights of enchanted roundelays, the musky
airs replying,
Sweep on iEolian harps of joy in silvered
she-oaks sighing.
So might I find Elysium there and healing
balm to sweeten
The bitter draught of wasted years the
locust long hath eaten.
VICTORIA.
KATHLEEN DALZIEL.
The Symphony of Death.
\\ lien I am dead, and there lias come an
end,
And conquered Life’s last vain appeal is
made,
They will turn back who whilom called me
friend,
Half-awed, and most unwillingly afraid.
For they will never know (how should they
guess ?)
The pain-veiled magic meaning of the
change—
And my still heart shall keep no bitterness
ior those whom Death’s illusion could
estrange.
I shall be dumb, and hear them month above
The smooth, cold phrases of decorous
grief,
Till, having laid the wistful ghost of love,
They leave me with a furtive shamed
relief.
And all the while—but this they will not
dream—
I shall be there, exultant in release;
Crowned with light’s self, in one ecstatic
gleam—
Clothed with pure darkness, like a robe
of peace!
They will turn back again, those friends of
mine,
Pale with compassion for the piteous dead,
bleeping so cold where never sun may shine
Across the curtains of his quiet bed.
And, haply, when they momently re-wake
The fading memory that once was I,
Half guiltily they’ll whisper, for my sake,
That men must needs forget, as men
must die !
Poor fools, to think that I should care for
this!
Though of all men none should remember
me,
He whom death makes immortal with a
kiss
Sleeps in the shadow of Eternity!
I P ar C w h° rest so blind and still,
Of oil the life of all the things that be,
One with the consciousness of vale and hill
One with the giant sentence of the sea.
Though flesh be not, though crumble bone
from bone,
W hile the earth’s self shall stay, I, too,
draw breath,
Whose heart of hearts is but a single tone
\\ oven in the deathless symphony of Death.
I shall be life (yet, this how should they
know?)
When I am dead, and there shall come
an end,
W hen with brief tears come men and mur-
mur low
Of the poor lost one who was once a
friend.
QUEENSLAND.
J. HOLLOWAY.
The Joy Bringer.
Slowly by the sombre mangroves
Drifts our boat beneath the moon,
Dancing on the silver water
Like a girl to some sweet tune;
Light of keel upon the ripples,
Bowing to their rise and fall,
Gay is she, like some bright damsel
Glad of life and glad or all.
Now a joyous mullet leaping,
Now a bream that shoreward shoots
Tells that in and inward creeping,
Stealing through dark mangrove-roots,
Making many little noises,
Comes a kindly tide that brings
Sweet refreshment, strength and succor
To a myriad shoreside things.
Mouths are gaping in the mangroves
Drinking deep of nourishment
That the sea, their mighty mother,
On its willing tide has sent —
On its making tide of midnight
i Inward moving, soft and cool—
To all life of shore and shallow,
Thirsty shore and shallow pool.
While upon the water's surface
Moonlit beauty lies adream,
Neath its surface fins are flashing,
Silver sides, swift-turning, gleam;
Stirred to movement as by music,
By the tide that landward hies
Weeds are swaying, reeds are swaying,
Fiery bubbles burst and rise.
O’er the mangroves, through the moonlight
Flies a noiseless hunting owl,
While, wings folded in shore-shadows,
Slumber hidden water-fowl;
Lullabying wavelets nigh them,
Crooning notes that soothe and lull.
Sleeps the blue crane in tree-darkness,
Silent sleeps the silver gull.
Beauty round us, beauty peerless,
Beauty vital, beauty wide.
Lonely in the lovely moonlight
Drift we thus upon the tide;
Here and there a sandspit glimmers
In the distance, white as pearl,
While our boat upon the ripples
Dances like a joyous girl.
N.S.W.
ROMRIC QUINN.
In Exile.
I never see on any hill
The -sunlight lying after rain
But to the hills of Cromarty
My homing spirit turns again.
I never see a road that winds
Between the bracken and the sea
But swift my eyes to follow it
And find the roofs of Cromarty.
I never hear the waters lap
Of a still morning on the shore,
I never feel the boat pull out,
But to myself I say, “No more,
“Ah nevermore, though I may turn
From all the ends of earth to thee
(Blow, winds of youth, the sail is set!),
Shall I again see Cromarty!”
MAORILAND.
H. E. F.
A Song of Years and Days.
The days are young about my feet,
The years go moaning by;
And when these twain at morning meet
There is nor word nor sigh.
The days have never known the years.
Tile years know not the days;
They walk beneath the sun’s white spears
By different paths and ways.
The years that go before are glad ;
But those that trail behind
Are heavy with their tears and sad,
And some with blood are blind.
But I may love the olden days
And I may seek the new,
Through evenings full of yellow haze
And mornings wet with dew.
The day that was, the day to be,
The day that holds me now
Are as a merry company
Beneath an orchard bough.
I walk among the solemn years
And I am sad and grave;
Beneath a hood of heavy fears
My heart will not be brave.
But bring a day from Babylon,
Or one from Samarkand,
Or seven hours of sun that shone
On spears in Holy Land;
Or set me in a ptirple day
Of some far age of stone,
Or in a meadow rich and gay
With wonders still unknown—
Yes, set me on the highest peak
Of utmost thought’s desire
To breathe the magic that men seek
Through ether waves and fire,
And I will draw that day to me
With all its sweetheart hours
And find the fragrance that must be
Among its words and flowers.
Fly up, clean spark! Turn, merry wheels
The gallant days move on.
O child, beneath your shining heels
The broken years are gone!
N.S.W.
DAVID MCKEE WRIGHT.


A Gilt-Edged Investment!
At last—an investment combining gilt-edged security with high earning-power i .
The first issue of 200,000 shares is now offered for public subscription. The holders of these shares will be an
option entitling them to take up at par value (£1) within a stated period further shares
share. This is a very valuable concession offered by the brokers for the purpose of securing the capital quickly, thus
enabling the company to begin earning profits immediately.
As soon as the capital is received it is transformed into absolutely sound and safe dividend-earning; securities on
money may be borrowed from the bank and re-mvested at a higher rate of interest. The company s capital Y
be earning interest, and will never be idle. And it will have the pick of the cream of such investments throughout
Australia. . , .
Scores of master-builders and others interested in the building of homes have called upon or written tothe brokersari
the company, enthusiastically supporting the company’s proposals. All are unanimous that there is abundant b
availaUe "hkt the security is gilt-edged, and that after taking into account all the avenues of profit open to the
company the earnings should range from 20 per cent, to 40 per cent, per annum.
A small private company financing second mortgages paid a dividend of over 30 per c * n ‘ a if®**!?*'
nublic comoanv such as Australian Mortgages, Limited, and the only one of its kind, can earn much more than m
f P o“ the rason y ’that it waY be able to take* Ml advantage of the profits derivable from other source of income,
including the re-investment of its funds, known by financial men as pyramiding the succession of investm
Although the directors have not in any way whatever asked for or solicited business for the company, they were
inundated with requests for second-mortgage finance a few days after the first public Ttdlest respS
supports the claim in the prospectus that there is abundant business available. The directors take the respo
bihty 0 for the C statement careful inquiries extending over a lengthy period, there is sufficient business to
absorb every pound of the large capital of £1,000,000.
The “Daily Sun” of April 19, 1927, said: “A significant feature in the local money-market recently has been a strong
and growing demand for accommodation on the security of mortgages.
The fact that many thousands of shares in this super-investment were placed BEFORE the publication of the prospectus
is eloquent evidence as to the soundness of the security and the profitable nature of the shares.
Bv reason of the fact that there will be a systematic return of the capital, the company will be able to turn the money
over many times a year, enabling it to earn profits up to 40 per cent, per annum in many hundreds of transactions.
The directors have themselves earned a great deal more than this in the same class of finance m individual cases.
The business is actually waiting for the company. The company does not have to spend one penny to get it. The
company deals in money only, lending it on the most highly-approved security, completely surrounded by pro.ec 101
and insurance against any kind of loss. ..... . . f
According' to the latest figures, the population of Australia now totals 6,110,515, and it is rising at the rate o
118 430 every year approximately 2,300 people every week! They will all need homes, and a great number wi
"qufre them through Australian Mortgages, Limited, as it is the only public company handling this class of finance
It is common knowledge that master-builders can utilise the whole of the company’s capital in discounting new second
mortgages without taking into account the vast number of existing second mortgages which can be safely and profit y
a l • i.L„ onnfiJenrp rtf the directors in the company’s prospectus, they have agreed to take between them shares
bTtheTapftalof thTlompany to the value of £25,000, Further, the brokers have firm underwritten shares to the value
of £lOO,OOO. Thus more than half of the first issue of capital is assured.
Th* crtrrmanv has made arrangements to insure every transaction against any loss that might arise through the forced
2: oHhe security m in any other way with a responsible insurance company, which places ,t m an .mpregnabe
rtrtdtion as regards the security of its investments. This gives the company the unique advantage of being able to
calculate the exact profit derivable from each individual transaction before entering mto same, and then, by msurance,
make certain of such profit, thus completely eliminating any element of speculation.
a lovrro of financial men have stated that the shares of Australian Mortgages, Limited, offer the finest invest-
ment yet placed before the public. All of them have commented most favorably on the abundant business available,
the soundness of the security and the highly profitable nature of the business.
As the company will lend its money only on real property, which is universally acknowledged to be gilt-edged security,
the element P of speculation is entirely absent, yet its dividend-earning capacity is enormous.
AUSTRALIAN MORTGAGES LTD.
CAPITAL: £1,000,000 divided into 100,000 9 per cent, cumulative preference
shares, and 500,000 ordinary shares at £l each are offered at par. The payments
are easy —2/6 per share on application, 2/6 per share on allotment, and the
balance in calls, 1/- per share per month.
200,000 ordinary shares of £l each may be issued as stated in the prospectus, and
200,000 shares are held in reserve for future issue.
DIRECTORS:
J. P. BOLGER, Esq., Kelburn Hall, Elizabeth Bay,
Director M. Bolger & Sons, Ltd., Graziers, Won-
bobbie, Warren.
THOMAS A. MILLER, Esq., Company Director,
Coronation Avenue, Mosman.
E. R. WALSH, Esq., Investor, Burfitt Street, Leich-
hardt. (Two others may be appointed.)
UNDERWRITING :
The Company’s Brokers, British-Australian Under-
writers (Amah), have firm underwritten 100,000
shares in the capital of the Company.
BANKERS:
Bank of New South Wales.
SOLICITOR:
Joseph P. McNamara, 35° George
St., Sydney.
AUDITORS:
W. K. Fullerton and Co., Hudson
House, 15 Bligh St., Sydney.
SECRETARY AND
REGISTERED OFFICE:
H. G. D butty, 29 Bligh St., Sydney.
UNDERWRITERS AND ORGANISING BROKERS:
British-Australian Underwriters fAmal.). Limited. Adyar House. Bligh St., Sydney.
Copies of the full Prospectus may be obtained
at the offices of British-Australian Underwriters
(Amal.), Ltd., Adyar House, Bligb St., Sydney.
This advertisement was prepared and inserted
by British-Australian Underwriters (Amal.),
Ltd., Adyar House, Bligh Street, Sydney.
Application for Shares.
TO the Secretary,
AUSTRALIAN MORTGAGES, LIMITED,
G/o Britisli-Australian Underwriters (Amal.), Ltd.,
Adyar House, Bligh St., Sydney.
I hereby apply for
(Cross out class not required.)
Preference
Ordinary-
Shares in the Capital of the above Company upon the terms
of the Company’s Prospectus, and I hereby agree to accept
the same or any less number as may be allotted to me, and
I authorise you to register me as the holder of such Shares.
I enclose herewith £ being 2/6 per share; on
application, and I agree to pay a further 2/6 per share on
allotment, and to pay the balance as provided in the said
Prospectus and to be bound by the Memorandum and
Articles of Association of the Company.
Dated this
day of
. 192 .
Name (in full) . .
Address (in . full i
Occupation
Signature •
BRITISH-AUSTRALIAN UNDERWRITERS (Amal.) LTD.
Adyar House, Bligh Street, Sydney.
I Est. 25 years, i I!.28/4/’27.


o
/
f
am*
r 1
■
: :
a
H
HI
1
Hi
aii
■■9
1H
1
mmm
m
iBS
BBaBBHwa
■
■
-
■MI
■
/
H
HH
■Hi


The Bulletin
Vol. 48—Xo. 2463.
April 28, 1927.
COMRADES.
“The leaders of the two factions within the N.S.W. Labor party are still breathing threats of excommunication against each other.”
BOTH TOGETHER: “Give me the pleasure, my dear sir!”


The Bulletin
THE NATIONAL AUSTRALIAN NEWSPAPER
“Australia for the White Sian.”
Printed and published by William Macleod, of
Musgrave and .McLeod Streets, Mosman, for _I HE
Bulletin Newspaper Co., Ltd., at the Office of the
Co., 214 George Street, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia.
.Melbourne Office: 154-162 Flinders Street.
London Office: No. 1 Wardour Street (near Picca-
dilly Circus), W.l.
PUBLISHED ONCE A WEEK.
TERMS TO SUBSCRIBERS
(In Advance only).
Posted to any address in Australasia, weekly:
12 months, £1 45.; 6 months, 12s. (id.; 3 months, is.
To any address Overseas: 12 months, &1 10s.; 6
months, ISs. 6d.; 3 months, Bs.
Cheques, drafts, etc., which should be crossed, and
all business Communications to be addressed to the
Manager.
Special Notice.
All correspondence to be addressed to Box 2521 8.8.,
G.P.0., Sydney.
Insufficiently stamped letters are liable to be
refused.
The contents of this paper are copyright by the
publishers. The right to reproduce or translate any
part of the contents of this number is hereby expressly
reserved by the publishers.
The Editor will carefully read and, where practic-
able, acknowledge in the “Correspondence” column
all contributions submitted, whether in the form of
Political, Social or other Articles, Verse. Short Tales
or Sketches (those dealing with Australian subjects
and not exceeding two columns in length, or, say,
3(100 words, are specially acceptable), Paragraphs,
Letters or Newspaper Clippings. All communications
will be regarded as strictly confidential.
Tiie Bulletin will return all unsuitable MS. when
the address is specified and stamps are enclosed. But
no MS. will be returned or preserved unless these
conditions are observed. When MS. is forwarded
without stamps for return it will be understood that
the copy is to be destroyed if not acceptable. Per-
sonal applications for return of MS. cannot receive
attention. Further. The Bulletin desires those
sending MS. to distinctly understand that it is not.
responsible for the preservation or transmission of MS.
To Amateurs in ltlaek and White.
Anyone supplying to The Bulletin original
humorous or other topical drawings in line or wash,
of sufficient merit and interest and adapted for
direct reproduction, or any interesting photograph
illustrative of a current event will be paid for same
on acceptance. Any picture containing a good idea
but unfitted for direct reproduction — i.e., any picture
which has to be re-drawn —will be paid for as a
suggestion only. The conditions under which such
artistic contributions will be received are those
applying to M.S.
To Travellers Abroad.
“The Bulletin’s” representative in London is
Ij. St. C. Gromlona. No. 1 Wardour Street
(near Piccadilly Circus), AV.I. Copies of
“The Bulletin” can be obtained from him or
the bookstall in the Main Hall at Australia
House. .1 Iso from Messrs. Gordon and Gotch. 15-
79 Farriugdon Street, London, E.C.4.; and IF. Daw-
son and Sons, Cannon House, Breams Buildings,
London, li.C.Jj.; E. T. Hole, llolertli Satire Ser-
vice, I/O Fleet Street, London E.C.; “The British
Australian and New Zealander,” 414-17 Australia
House, Strand, London, W.C.2; F. Algar, 58 Grace-
church Street, London, EC.3.
South Africa. — The Central News Agency, Cape-
town, Durban and Jo'lannesburg; Dawson and Son,
Capetown and Johannesburg; Havana House, Durban;
Hhodesia Neivs Agency, Salisbury; Benoni News
Agency, Benoni; Handel House, Kimberley ; and
others.
Canada. — G. S. Forsyth and Co., 441 Hastings
Street, Vancouver, B.C.
U.S.A.— Chicago: J. Roland Kay Co., 161 East
Erie Street, N. Michigan Boulevnrde; Post Office
News Co., 33 IFest Monroe Street, Chicago. New
York: Brenlano’s, sth Avenue and 27tli Street, New
York City;' Schultz News Agency. S.E. Corner 6th
Avenue and 42nd Street, New York City; llotaling’s
News Agency, 203 West 41st Street, New York City.
Washington: Liberty News Co., Seattle, Washington ;
Wheatley News Co., 704 Market Street, San Francisco;
Wallace, 'The New Orleans News Man, 105 Royal
Street, New Orleans, La. ; The Wide World News Stand,
5414 South Main Street, Los Angeles, Cal.
Egypt. — Jacques. Horn and Co., the Colonial
Hook and Neivs Stores. Port Said, Egypt.
Hong Kong.- —Brewei and Co., 696 Pedder Street,
Ilong Kong.
China. —Brewer and Co., 31 Nanking Road,
Shanghai, China.
Penang,, F.M.S. — K. Abdul Rahman, Bookstall,
Eastern and Oriental Hotel.
Ceylon. — T. L. De Silva, 39 Chatham Street,
Colombo.
Papua. —Whitten Bros., Samarai and Port Moresby.
Fiji. — A. Barker. Suva: Harry Gardiner, Metropole
Hairdressing Saloon, Suva.
Overseas Advertising Representatives.
London. — L. St. C. Grovdona, No. I Wardour
Street (near Piccadilly Circus), W. 1.; Gordon and
(latch, 75-79 Farriugdon Street. London, E.C.4.
U.S.A. — J. Roland Kay Co.. 161 East Erie Street,
N. Michigan Boulevarde, Chicago.
Postage Rates.
Single copies of The Bulletin (registered as a
newspaper): — Commonwealth, New Zealand and Fiji:
lOoz., Id. United Kingdom: 4oz. to 10oz., 14d.; each
additional 40 Id. All Sea Route: 160 z.. l\d.
British Possessions and U.S.A.: 4oz. or part thereof,
Id. Elsewhere, 20z., Id.
THURSDAY, APRIL 28, 1927.
[For all articles and paragraphs in this issue
which require a signature under the Commonwealth
Electoral Law, S. H. Prior, J. E. Webb and James
Edmond, all of 214 George-street, Sydney, hold
themselves responsible.]
DO YOU SMELL ANYTHING?
While the N.S.W. Labor Government was
rushing its Gaming and Betting Extension
Bill through the Leg. Assembly, H. V.
Jaques, a legal member of the Opposition,
suggested that one of the paragraphs would
admit of an addition being made to the
already excessive number of licensed race-
courses in and about Sydney. That city
has to support Rosehill, Canterbury, Moor -
field, Kensington, Ascot, Rosebery, Victoria
Park, Epping and several courses beyond or
deemed to be beyond the 40-mile limit, as
well as the two fine properties of the A.J.C.,
which could supply all the racing required.
Chief-Secretary Lazzarini, who introduced
the bill, assured the House that Jaques was
mistaken. “The paragraph,” he said, “gives
a permit for a license to be issued for an
extra 20 days’ racing [i.e., trotting] in Sydney,
but that can be held on any of the present
registered courses. There is no proposition
to register any new racecourse.” “What I
wanted to make clear,” Jaques proceeded,
“was that it did not provide for bringing a
new racecourse into existence.” “None what-
ever,” was Lazzarini’s answer.
* * * *
Naturally, Opposition-leader Bavin asked
the Minister to explain his explanation. The
principal Act, he pointed out, specified that
“the number of licenses for racecourses
situate within 40 miles of the General Post
Office, Sydney, shall not exceed the number
of racecourses so situate and in use for
race meetings within the three months next
preceding August 1, 1906.” Lazzarini’s
measure “amended” this clause by inserting
after the words “shall not exceed” the
words “by more than one.” The reply
of the misleader of the House for the time
being came in confused interjections. “I
am taking the right to give a license for the
right of running the extra 20 days’ trotting
per annum in Sydney,” he said. “You are
doing that by adding to the number of
licensed racecourses,” Bavin rejoined.
“The Minister is not quite certain
himself what the paragraph means,” inter-
posed Bruxner, formerly the Cocky leader.
“I’m quite satisfied in my own mind what
it means,” the misleader of the House said,
and went on to mumble that “the 20 extra
days may be held on a racecourse already
licensed, or if I like to give a license to
hold races on the Agricultural Show Ground
it can be done.” Three times he mentioned
the Show Ground in this connection. “Do
you think we want any more racecourses in
the metropolitan area?” asked Bruxner,
after the second reference. “No, personally
I do not,” the Minister said. But he resisted
an Opposition amendment to strike out the
words “by more than one,” and the Friends
of the Workers were numerous enough to
defeat it. A similar amendment was moved,
in the Leg. Council, and the Friends of the
Workers were victorious again.
* * * *
The sequel to these curious proceedings,
which took place in the first week of
March, was recorded in the Labor Daily
of April 15:—
“Night trotting meetings will be held at
Maroubra towards the end of the year. A
conditional permit has been given by the
Chief Secretary to the Maroubra Speedway
Co., Ltd., for the holding of meetings on
a track to be.laid down on the inside of the
motor-racing track. As the laying of the
track will occupy some months, and will
cost probably £lO,OOO, the actual use of the
speedway for trotting events will not be
taken advantage of until later in the year.
Tlie racing is to be conducted under electric
light, as in Westralia, where it has proved
a great success. The speedway is Govern-
ment property, held on a long lease by the
present company, which acquired the assets
of the original company last year, when the
first co. went into liquidation. The capital
of the company is £35,000 in £1 shares.”
The Maroubra speedway has so gruesome
a record—four car-drivers and one motor-
cyclist lost their lives there in a little over
13 months—that it is not surprising that
the company should interest itself in some
less hazardous and more promising means
of making money. But the possibility of its
being given a racecourse license, involving
the employment of bookmakers and totali-
sators, was not even hinted at by the
disingenuous Minister who suggested the
Show Ground as a suitable place for a
license, not once, but three times. As for
night meetings, the N.S.W. Trotting Club
asked the same Minister in September for
permission to hold them and was refused.
Yet the N.S.W. Trotting Club is a non-
proprietary body, as also is the Westralian
association quoted by the Labor journal.
All their profits go back into the game, tf
there is any case for the introduction of
night trotting in Lazzarini’s city—and in
Tile Bulletin’s judgment the thing would
be a curse—the permit should unquestionably
go to the non-proprietary concern already in
the business and not to a company which
is only after dividends.
The Labor party used to be opposed to
proprietary racing nourished by betting, as
all good socialists should be. Two or three
years ago some of its prominent members
were mainly responsible for a select com-
mittee’s recommendation that the Govern-
ment of the day should eliminate the pro-
prietary element from pony-racing. In the
Gaming and Betting Extension Bill, how-
ever, the party awarded four meetings p.a.
to one syndicate battening on the betting
craze, restored 16 meetings p.a. to another
which had lost its legal right to them, and
sneaked in a clause which permits the
establishment of a third. Of what good is
such a party to the workers, whose worst
folly it thus encourages?
OUR RECORD YEAR.
During the eight months which ended with
February the exports of merchandise from
Australia, mostly “primary products,” were
£25,000,000 short of the imports, which were
chiefly manufactured goods. The imports
were £10,000,000 more than for the corres-
ponding period of last year, and the moral
to be deduced is that the increase in the
quantity of local manufactures doesn’t any-
thing like keep pace with the needs of the
community, or that the insensate luxury of
the motor-car-loving community has ex-
panded far beyond its means. (Incident-
ally, “motor chassis and parts” -were the
biggest item on the import list, with “cotton
and linen piece goods” second.) The
exports of merchandise were £15,000,000 less
than for the corresponding eight months of
last year, from which it may be inferred
that the sale of the Commonwealth’s spare
raw materials is a broken crutch to rest
upon when the “standard of living” is on
such a lavish scale.
» * it *
Allowing for the export of our own gold,
the real deficit may be a million less than
it appears. On that basis the Common-
wealth exported 88 millions worth to pay
for imports costing 112 millions and also
to meet the eternal bill for “interest and
services abroad.” Th'at will make the total
deficit at least 44 millions for the period,
which is at the rate of 66 millions for the
whole year, provided the rate keeps up.
Even if it doesn’t keep up the position isn’t
likely to improve a very great deal. It- is
the consequence, first, of working too little,
or specialising on ill-paying industries. Thus
it is boasted that Westralia will, this year
or next, or at least soon, be the boss wheat-
growing State in these parts. But it has
been laid down as an axiom that wheat-
growing can’t be done at a profit more
than 12 miles from a railway, and in quite
decent country all the land within 12 miles
of a railway isn’t suitable for cultivation,
even if none of it was required for roads,
townships, cemeteries and the like. If there
are not ‘‘secondary” industries in the little
towns, and these are pathetically few, it
means the cqnstruction of a remarkable
quantity of loan railway to remove one crop
per year and shift groceries and oddments
in between whiles. The deficit is caused,
in the second place, by luxuriating to a
record extent in foreign products. And it
is due, in the third placq, to the ever-
increasing dead hoi'se of foreign debt. There
is no way of meeting the absurd and
criminal difference, on the wrong side,
between saleable assets sent abroad and
liabilities to be met abroad, save by raising
new loans abroad, and there, is no way out
if the loans aren’t forthcoming save to go
broke abroad. What steps some of the
people abroad might take, or attempt, in
the way of inserting the bailiff, and what
the bailiff would look like, are matters of
speculation. As regards this matter, which
is at the moment the supreme matter which
matters, there is not one speck of advan-
tage in abolishing or doubling the per
capita allowance; in arguing whether the
States, or the Commonwealth, or both, or
neither, should have the sole or partial right
to collect direct taxes, or indirect taxes
either ; or in counting up Page’s paper sur-
plus. Readjustment of seats is no good,
nor is Alex. Peacock's roar or Lang's
snarl.
Energy is being displayed, but not in
work nor in economy. The N.S.W. Govern-
ment of Slangs and Whangs has raised
£14,000,000 in months in foreign parts,
and mostly in dollars. The price obtained
for the dollar loans was low, and the terms,
as to sinking funds and non-renewal, were
stiffer than the Ma State has been accus-
tomed 1 to. At latest advices the State’s
overdraft in, London was over £6,000,000,
and £3,000,000 had been borrowed in Aus-
tralia. The Federal Government does the
loan-raising for the other five States. It
raised £14,000,000 for them last year, and
is going harder this year. All this golden
money is alleged to be for public works in
Australia. But it isn’t; it stays in London
and pays bills. McKell, of the Slang-
whang Cabinet, in expressing a hope that
no more loans would be required before
June 30, added that' the money was needed
for “commitments in London,” and there was
a ring of truth in the words. Australian
Governments have committed almost
everything in London except suicide; that
has so far been postponed. Yet serious criti-
cism is wholly lacking in political quarters.
Opposition leaders did much the same easy
swindle when in office because they knew
no better, and will do it when in office
again, their courage not having improved
by keeping. Bavin, for example, may
mildly denounce the loan racket as excessive,
but he doesn’t specify how excessive it is
and so commit himself to anything definite.
SHANGHAI.
All the tendencies of modern Asia meet in
Shanghai. They rush together without any
geographical obstruction to soften the
impact. The city is situated on a vast bed
of silt as flat as the Nullarbor Plain, though
better watered. You must travel 40 miles
to Quinsan, a tumbledown walled city which
General Gordon made sanguinarily famous,
before you find an elevation higher than
a grave mound. There is not even a wall
around Shanghai as there is around other
Chinese cities. A street may begin in the
foreign settlement in tall buildings with
lifts and modern conveniences, and end in
a slum in Chinese territory; and if you are
a patriotic Nationalist you may plant a
machine-gun at the Chinese end and enfilade
the European end.
Just as the streets are common property,
so the canals, which lace the surrounding
country, flow on through the European city.
During the 1913 troubles, when a defeated
army was driven back on to the settlement,
it loaded itself into barges, floated through
the foreign territory, emerged on the other
side and attacked its astounded victors in
the rear. On that occasion, too, the Chines?
fleet exchanged shots with its opponents
across the settlement, and, as the officers
favored one party and the gunners another,
the firing was erratic. And just as the
streets and canals are apt to be mixed, so
is the population. A Chinese admiral who
had given himself shore-leave until the
situation clarified itself sat at table with
me at Bickerton's Hotel on the Bubbling
Well-road, and explained things which might
otherwise have been puzzling. He indicated
two stately mansions standing alongside
each other in the foreign settlement as
belonging to two rival generals who had
urged their patriotic armies to deeds of
valor. When their respective coolie heroes
had duly massacred each other, the generals
returned to their spacious homes and gave
each other two splendid banquets,
To all outward appearance, European
Shanghai is another Sydney, except that its
bund is straight instead of curly and its
modern buildings are liable to have large
Chinese ideographs or dragons picked out
j n electric lights across them, by way of
bringing home to Chinese purchasers the
virtues of European goods. Also, although
the trams, telephones, motor-cars and all
the rest of its paraphernalia look as if they
] )a(: l been built by Westerners exclusively
f or Western use, closer inspection gives the
impression that, if white men made the
p ] aC e, they abdicated in favor of the yellow
race. In the public gardens white children
may be seen, followed closer than their
shadows by amahs on toothpick legs; but
y OU may walk for hours through the stifling
P urlieus and scarcely see a Caucasian face,
You may pass from your office to your
garden suburb through beautiful wide
thoroughfares, or you may take a dozen
steps Q ff those thoroughfares and smell
middle China, where half a boiled egg.
cigarette butts, orange peel and broken glass
are a ll merchantable goods. You may enjoy
a ]| the aesthetic pleasures of a mellow
civilisation, and after a while your
nerves will be strong enough to stand
the shock of seeing young girls with toes
an( j heels bent, in upon each other being
carr j e d to their work. You may indulge
dreams of a socialistic Utopia for all the
wor ld. including China; but only if you
refrain, from entering a modern factory
where n j n e-year-old infants swallow the
cotton dus t for 12 hours a day or until tliev
fall asleep . And if vou are inclined to rail
at the sight aud condemn the European
authorities out of hand, vou have only to
reflect that the factory is as likelv to be
Chinese as foreign-owned. and that there
are millions more of semi-starving children
eager to take the places of these,
Thig ig Euro Shanghai, its industry,
founded OR chinese labor shake n bv
chinese strikers; its trade depending on
Chinese goodwill, and that goodwill under-
mined bv the Chinese bovcott. It is almost
~ , • , , , , r T , • a
t he ,as * .stronghold of European influence
m .what is called further Asia. Yet its coif
dition is nothing new in the long history ot
t-, , e ~ i r
European contact with the Orient. Go;i
• T V -a i ■ o ay i
in India. Bencoolen in Sumatra, Malacca in
, T ’ ■ .
Malava and Bantam in Java were similar
. c , e ~ m ,
Caucasian oases. home of them hair
~,, , , .
changed hands and some have disappeared
mi v r v i r , e >; i
The chief article of export of one. which
, e •-. .
was once the glorv of its owners, is to-da>
, . T u „i„^,
half-caste ships stewards. I have clam-
, , ~ 1 , c ~ A . • >
bered over the ramparts of another and trier
. , f ~ „ • , •.
to trace the outlines of the ancient city
, ~ • , TU ~ ( a
underneath the jungle. 1 hev all fell owinp
, nmrrels of their European nroDrie-
, Tf «i l •r n t L.
tors. If Shanghai follows the same track
~ e ~
it. will be because of the same causes,
FENNG-SHUI.
PLAIN ENGLISH.
Oceans of Money in Australia.
A debate can be raised on most subjects:
even the question whether the sun is square
might not be amiss. So it came to pass
that suddenly a discussion arose in Sydney
as to whether this country could find, out
of its own local resources, all the loan
money required for local public works.
Violent but orthodox persons, with Foreign-
trade symptoms and importers’ earmark-
declared that the lunacy of the proposition
was visible to any discerning eye, it being
as plain as Premier Lang’s countenance that
if money was raised here, and spent on
works here, and went back into circulation
here, Australia would be drained of money
through all the coin going away.
Instead of arguing about the contents o
the box it is best to open the box and sp*'
what is in it, and in this case the test i-
easy. When the war commenced thf
Federal Government required an immensiq
of money, good in Australia even if it "
bad everywhere else, for military and navy
works and doings in Australia. Instead o.
trying the ruinous expedient of an innat< .
paper currency, it asked for loan monc
and this was how the community
sponded:—-
First War Loan .. .• £13,132.45i
Second „ „ .. .. 21,280,8*9
Third „ .. .. .. 23,208,485
Fourth „ „ . . • • 21, 284,lot
Fifth „ ~ .. .. 20,921,144
,Sixth .. 42,332,0 th
Seventh „ .. ..
First Peace Loan .. ..
Second „ 56,880.9 a/
C 236,598,018
That was ihe amount which k"'
its Federal Government inside six 3 e -‘ -


t a low rate of interest (less than 4f per
cent, in some cases), and despite the stress
of war. Nor was any great trouble experi-
enced. No sane person professed that the
country contained anything like the total
amount it subscribed, but the money was
spent here, and as it returned into circula-
tion. which at times might be a matter of
hours, it was lent over again, and the inter-
est was paid and circulated here, and the
Government borrowed it back again, and so
the cheerful circle went round.
The lesson is that if State loans were
really wanted, as set out in the glittering
prospectus which is accepted with reserva-
tions abroad, and as set forth in the loan
estimates here, purely for remunerative pub-
lic works here, there would be no necessity
to borrow in any other country than this.
Australians are quite as well able to lend
the States £40.000.000 per annum, which is
more than is necessary, in peace time, as they
were to lend the Commonwealth £47,000,000
per annum in war time.
♦
Raising the Suffrage Age.
Great Britain still attaches some frills to
its franchise, the most remarkable being
that while a man becomes qualified to vote
at the age of 21 a woman remains in the
shade until she is 30. Despite restrictions,
however, almost exactly half the popula-
tion of Great Britain and Northern Ireland
was on the roll used at the election of 1924.
The names on the Australian roll at the
Senate election of 1924 were not very much
more than half the total population, which
may possibly imply that people reach 21
at an earlier age in England than they do
here. Now the Baldwin Government has
undertaken to reduce the voting date for
women to 21, and a good many of its sup-
porters grumble heavily. They suggest
that it would be better to strike an average,
and make it 25 for both sexes.
This idea has brought forth much elab-
orate scorn, the hackneyed allegation being
that it is an effort to stagger back to the
dark ages of Conservatism. The analogy
is worse than far-fetched. In the dark ages
of Conservatism the root idea was that the
franchise should be based on the possession
of property, with very often a religious
qualification thrown in for both voters and
candidates. Often none save big landlords
could sit in Parliament. The possibility
of an unpropertied citizen acquiring the
suffrage at the age of 21, or 25, or even
250, was regarded by many Dedlocks and
Barnacles of the olden time as an out-
rage and a sinful anomaly. Woman suffrage
was viewed in the same or a worse light,
md Queen Victoria expressed the view T that
one lady who was somewhat noisy on the
topic should be whipped. The woman
member wasn’t even on the horizon. The
raising of the voting age, and consequently
the age of members, has no connection at
ill with these old Toryisms. It is neither
democratic nor undemocratic, but purely
a, matter of expediency. If Jack Jones
was shut out of participation in political
affairs for four more years than at present,
the same would happen to Lord Tomnoddy,
son of the Earl of Fitzdotterel.
A loud mass of newspaper opinion has
announced that any project for raising the
voter’s minimum age in Australia would
be counted out with not a moment’s hesi-
tation. This country, it is alleged, has
enjoyed and appreciated the blessing of
the universal 21-year suffrage too exten-
sively and too long to endure any tamper-
ing with the sacred institution. It is good
stereotyped oratory of the kind talked in
the best bunkum academies, but if it could
be proved that the 21-year franchise lias
had anything to do with making Australian
methods of government what they are, the
said franchise should be wiped out as an
accursed thing. No other white man’s
country with a knowledge of the English
language has made such a mess of its self-
government and its opportunities in recent
(and adult-suffrage) years. The States exist
in chronic beggary, and stave off the bailiff
by raising loans under false pretences. The
Commonwealth is little better. Power has
passed, in great measure, from the people’s
Parliaments to a crowd of union bosses and
other “uncouth crooks.” Whether the ex-
treme youth and inexperience of too
a proportion of the electors is responsible
The Bulletin does not know for certain.
It would like to find out; and the best way
to find out is to make the experiment of
raising the age for enrolment. If it was put
up to 25 it would be quite a non-committal
experiment. When, from whatever cause,
a Government of cranks and crooks adds
another four millions to the public debt
and wastes the proceeds, it does something
which binds posterity for a long time. Its
deed can only be undone by repudiation,
which is degrading, or by much toil and per-
spiration in the process of repayment. To
add four years to the voting age would
involve no liability whatever, and would
bind posterity not in the least. But it
would give posterity a valuable line for its
guidance in future.
It would be fairer to the youths them-
selves too. In thousands of cases they
commit themselves to some political party
before they have had time to look around
and acquire a mind of their own. After
which they spend their lives, not; searching
out, the truth, but seeking for bits of evi-
dence to convince themselves that they were
right all along.
Only the mouldy conservatism of peopL
in general, including Laborites and Com-
munists, makes the 21-year fetich the
Solemn Ark and Covenant it is.
Populating Australia.
Primin istek Bruces notion tliat the
Economic Conference at Geneva next
month is going to consider ways to populate
Australia and other countries that seem to
need populating will startle most people in
this continent. The old-fashioned idea that
population, like morals, climate, costume
and the choice of swear-words, is entirely
a domestic affair has still many adherents.
Apparently Mr. Bruce is not one of them.
It must be confessed that, despite the
exhortations of prelates who would like
to see the cradle industry get a good boost.
and multifarious and ingenious plans for
putting “migrants” on the land, Australian
population grows more and more slowly.
Here is a little table that shows the per-
centage increases for the last five years,
each computed on the total at the end of
the preceding year:—
Natural Migration Total
Increase. (Jains. Increase.
'p.c.' p.c. p.c.
1022 . .. 1.56 0.69 2.25
1923 .. .. IMO 0.60 2,06
1924 .. .. 1.39 0.70 2.15
1925 . . . , 1.38 0.63 2.01
1926 . . . . 1.27 0.70 1.97
The decline of the natural increase rate,
which connotes a steadily falling birth-rate,
since the mortality rate is decreasing, is
most marked; and gains by migration show
no great variation from year to year.
Actually Australia added 151 fewer souls
to the muster last year than were recorded
in 1925, and 5778 fewer than in 1921. The
birth-rate is not likely to improve now
that the philosophy of birth-control has
penetrated to all classes in this Common-
wealth, and the only hope of rapid expan-
sion lies in migration.
Ever since Australia was Australia the
idea of the Elder Statesmen of the Empire
has been that it is a farm, purely and
simply a farm. It isn’t. But on that
assumption every Imperial discussion about
migration has started and ended. At
least one of the Elder Statesmen is
beginning to have his doubts. W. M.
Hughes the other evening told an audience
at Sydney that he was convinced that all
the roseate post-war schemes of Empire
settlement had been sailing on the wrong
tack. Agriculture was becoming a science
and a comparatively few men equipped with
tractors, soil analyses, modern manures and
gumption could raise enough food to sup-
port thousands. The conclusion wasn’t new.
It had been arrived at by Kropotkin 40
years before and endorsed by Henry Ford
at a later date. But Hughes went further
and said that the main thing to worry
about was the establishment of a numerous
industrial population—people engaged in
making things—who, when there was enough
of them, would be so hungry as the result
of their labors that they would provide a
close-at-hand market for all the stuff Aus-
tralia exports to-day and a good deal more.
Folk would go on the land and grow things,
not because they were -shipped there for
the purpose, but because they liked that
kind of thing and could see a good living
in it.
When the sages of the Seven Seas gather
at Geneva they might do worse than ponder
on the idea that there are more ways of
disposing of superfluous population than
forcing them to aid in the production of
wheat and butter.
4
A New University for N. S. Wales.
Dear Bulletin, —One. of my main points
in advocating a new university for N. S.
Wales was the benefit of competition.
"S.N.R.” answers it by alleging that Oxford
and Cambridge have no competition. How
ridiculous! What have they been all these
hundreds of years but deadly, if friendly,
rivals? Who can estimate the value of
this rivalry and how much it has meant
to both of them? “S.N.R.” has been kind
enough to prove my statement that the
prospect of another university would not
only be a great thing for education In
the State, but also a great thing for the
Sydney University. Britain has many
universities of a high standard. London
University is probably the greatest and
best in the world. Edinburgh and Glasgow
are not far behind. The people in charge
of them are eminently sensible in the exei-
cise of their authority for the most part,
for the obvious reason that any unreason-
ableness would find students taking a half-
hour’s train journey , and linking up with
another institution.
If the Sydney University was the most
perfect institution elf its kind (which it
isn’t), I would still maintain that a popu-
lation of over two millions of people would
be better served by two university town*
than by one.
It is true that I made various statements
concerning some of the faults of the Sydney
institution. If “S.N.R.” wants to know a
few of the things that might be done to
improve it, here are four: —
(4) Tin- abolition of the “locked-door”
policy of conducting Senate discussions.
(2) The ignoring of the fact that one
of the Senators happens to be a newspaper
editor, and the fairer distribution of news
of their doings. , . ~
(3) The cessation of high-handed actions
like the muzzling of an under-graduate who
writes an article criticising the Senate
actions.
14) The appointment of at least one
under-graduate representative on the Senate.
There are dozens of minor suggestions
that might be made: for instance, the dis-
play of a keener interest by the staff in
undergraduate doings. The University has
excellent cricket and football teams which
play matches every week. During my seven
years there I do not remember ever seeing
more than half a dozen members of the
teaching staff at any of them. If, as
“S.N.R.” states, the undergraduates and
their parents look on the place as a “learn-
ing-shop,” the blame must be laid almost
entirely at the feet of the people who run
it, —Yours, etc., Double Graduate.
*
Insanity and Crime.
Year after year the medical departments
of the Public Service present their reports
and make recommendations based on
experience, and year after year the deaf
ear is turned in the Minister’s room. It
is small wonder that the new-comer, fired
at the outset with zeal and enthusiasm,
becomes wearied and develops what is
known as the departmental outlook.
The voice of Dr. C. A. Hogg, Inspector-
General of Mental Hospitals of N. S.
Wales, has lately been raised in lus
report for last year. Dr. Hogg inherited a
department which had been lifted from
mediocrity to efficiency by the late Eric
Sinclair. Sinclair installed trained atten-
dants in the institutions under his care,
introduced the system of voluntary admis-
sion and paid special attention to the men-
tally deficient. In other words, lie turned
lunatic asylums into hospitals for the insane
Dr. Hogg is trying to keep up the tradition
In his report he urges the amendment of
the present Lunacy Act (1898). He wants
first, to make provision for persons who
are in the early stages of mental disease.
These do not require to be forcibly
detained, but it needs to be made easier for
them to get hospital treatment—-treatment
as “ordinary sick persons in ordinary public
hospitals.” ' But it is not legislative reform
only that is called for. It is administrative
as well. The total number of patients in
the mental hosoitals at the end of the
year was 8130. Permanent accommodation
is provided for 7035 only. New beds have
been provided at Orange and Stockton, but
there is a leeway of 895 beds to be made
up during the current year. This is nothing
short of a scandal and calls for immediate
attention. The need for increased accom-
modation extends to the criminal insane.
At the present time many persons who
should be dealt with in hospitals are being
kept in gaol. This is a disgrace.
Dr. Hogg wants to do something more
with the gaols. He proposes that prisoners
sent to observation wards should be
examined by a committee consisting of two
psychiatrists and a psychologist, and that
this committee should have power to make
recommendations in regard to the disposal
of such prisoners. This is but the first
step. The examination should be made
to extend to the prisoners in all the ganls.
It has been done in Tasmania, and is a piece
of first-rate, preventive, psychological medi-
cine. It means that the mental age of
every prisoner is determined, and prisoners
are segregated according to their mental
ages. A defective of low intelligence who
has made the first ba,d step will not then
be associated with criminals of a superior
intelligence who will lead him further along
the criminal path.
+
The Wage-Slaves.
It’s about time something was done about
these wage-slaves. Some rebellious souls
among them find relief by buying tickets in
Tatt.’s, two-upping, coveting their neighbors'
wives and so forth—some even go fishing—but
they don’t find these diversions on the job.
What they really need is an interest in life
and in their job at the same time. A notable
attempt to give it to them happened in
one of the British motor-car factories a
few years ago. This factory was muddling
along, paying the rent with difficulty, selling
a car here and a car there and getting no
satisfaction out of it, when some bright
spirit suggested that piece-work should be
made the order of the day. The workers,
mostly young, were prepared to give it a
trial, though warned by their trades-union
leaders that they were opening the door to
all sorts of horrors. They held on. however,
and three years later the concern was able
to tell its shareholders that turnover had
increased by 209 p6r cent., profits by 93
per cent, and output per worker 73 per cent.
Of course the management pulled hard, too,
but the men who did the work got more
than their share of the profits, for average
earnings went up 108 per cent. Not only
that, but the co. estimated it was able to
sell its product at a price, based on value
delivered, 62 per cent, lower than when the
experiment was started. The workers have
more than doubled their pay, the share-
holders have nearly doubled their dividends,
and the purchasers of the output are getting
a lot more value for their money.
-♦
Goitre Belts in the Commonwealth.
“V.H.R.”: Apropos “Goitre in Australia”
(B. 7/4/’27), a recent report by Dr. Blanche
Chittick, medical inspector for the Tas.
Education Department, concerning the
schools in the Lyell district, shows alarming-
prevalence of the disease among children.
A peculiar feature is the much greater ex-
tent to which it affects girls; for instance,
at the Gormanston State School, of 48 boys
and 35 girls examined, only four per cent,
of the males were affected, compared with
20 per cent, of the girls. At the Gorman-
ston Convent 54 were examined, and 22.5
p.c. of the girls were found affected, while
the boys were free. In the Queenstown
State School, 36.4 p.c. of 115 girls examined
were suffering from the disfiguring com-
plaint, while of 157 boys inspected 27.4 had
goitres. At the Queenstown Convent, of
63 females, no less than 66.6 p.c. were found
affected, and 38.2 p.c. of the other sex as
well.
As to the cause, it would appear that
(here is something more to blame than an
iodine deficiency in food. Lyell, depending
entirely on mining, grows a very small pro-
portion of its food requirements, and meat,
fruit, vegetables and practically all the
other requirements are carried from the
North-West Coast, where goitre is almost
unknown. Obviously, then, there is some
other underlying cause, unless in the car-
riage of the foodstuff the iodine content is
lost.
Lyell is not the only Tasmanian district
where goitre is prevalent. Another belt is
in the Derwent Valley, and another the
Huon; and singularly, in all three locali-
ties named, there is a heavy rainfall and an
accompanying damp atmosphere. The min-
eral waters of the West Coast may also be
contributory, but upon this point nothing
definite can be said. At any rate, the iodine-
deficiency theory, so tightly embraced in
Maoriland, has received a hard knock in
Lyell. It is a matter in which the Com-
monwealth Medical Department might well
give the State Government a hand.
♦
Strychnine in the Bush.
“Jim Domino”: Little wonder that Black
Brother is getting too sophisticated in the
use of white man’s poisons (B. 14/4/’27).
Considering the manner in which poison
is used and distributed in the bush, it is
remarkable that tragedies are so few.
Practically throughout Australia some sort
of deadly mixture is employed to keep
weevils away from hides and sheep, kan-
garoo and rabbit skins. In most cases
arsenic and soda are used; and as this
poison is difficult to dissolve, in order to
save boilings large quantities are prepared
—say a month’s supply. This is usually
held in drums and should be kept under
lock and key, but too frequently it is
treated very casually. Some sheep-stations
have wire yards wherein sheepskins are
spread and painted with the solution. A
bit of fencing-wire is considered strong
enough to secure the gate. Three years
ago in western N.S.W. a gate was left
untied and two tots wandered in and played
tea-parties, dipping out of the arsenic
drums. Miraculously the boy aged four
was saved, but the baby girl died.
Fox hunters, rabbiters, etc., treat strych-
nine with contempt. One of them invited
me and a mate to a feed when passing his
camp one evening. When I searched for
some jam, he indicated a petrol case where
he kept various condiments. My mate was
extracting a tin from the box, when the
rabbiter checked him. “No, not that one.
That’s my rabbit-poison jam,” he said. The
same skingetter would cut fox-baits and
“doctor” the meat with the very knife he
might use a half-minute later to cut a hunk
of mutton for his meal. Many station
employees make extras by knocking over
a few rabbits, foxes or dingoes by poison,
and Black Brother may thus easily procure
the deadly crystal. On a station not far
from Winton (N.Q.) tins of arsenic array
the walls of a paint-shpp, and enough
poison to account for all North Queensland
may be had for the taking.
Strychnine users often refuse free pink
strychnine, although its potency is little if
any less than white, and buy their own white
grains. Pink strychnine reduces the possi-
bilities of tragic mistakes, and in bush
camps would hardly be used for baking pur-
poses, as white has been on several occa-
sions.
Not only should it be made a penal
offence for poison to be sold to Black
Brother, but carelessness in distribution or
in use should also be punishable.
♦
“X.N.0.”: A “prominent shipping man” in
Sydney expressed the opinion, in connec-
tion with the stranding of the Riverina, that
the Navy should have “despatched a power-
ful vessel at full speed to the scene.” There
is a prevalent impression that the Navy’s
first duty is salvage or rescue work. But
a warship is not one bit better equipped than
any other ship to deal with a case like
that of the Riverina. It is only in the
matter of speed that the Navy possesses
any advantage. In the Riverina case there
were many other vessels near at hand, and
there would have been no justification for
raising steam in a destroyer or cruiser that
couldn’t have done anything when she got
there that the ships already there or there-
abouts couldn’t do.
♦
“M. 8.”: After describing Lister’s use of
carbolic sprays and lotions in surgery, it is
stated (B. 21/4,/’27) that “his success was
immediate.” This needs qualifying. Car-
bolic sprays and disinfectant applications
embodying the principles of “antisepsis”
(destruction of bacteria) were Lister’s first
mighty blows against the hordes of death.
It was not, however, until later that he won
his most brilliant victories by the introduc-
tion of the principles of “asepsis” (the pre-
vention of sepsis) by scrupulous cleansing
of everything connected with operations.
It is the consummation of the technique of
asepsis that is saving so many lives to-day.


“TO-MORROW”
• n To-day that the Man on the Land is chiefly concerned, but
with I o-inorrow. It is for next season and for the years to come that he must
plan—o-day. It is not upon the problems of To-day that the board of business
mel i deliberates. To-day’s problems were, or should have been, solved Yesterday,
and To-day s work is to plan and build for To-morrow.
How many of us apply this principle to business, but fail to apply it to our-
selves, yet our own future needs are more vital to us than anything else.
In business we plan for the years to come, and establish reserves for further
contingencies. In private life so many of us are content to drift along without
plan and without reserving our own personal monies.
Not only Wise Saving, but Wise Spending will be a factor in your personal
success. To either, a Banking Account is nowadays almost essential.
For a start open a Savings Account. It will cost you nothing, but will
help you to plan for—TO-MORROW.
faiaonwealtb lank of Australia
(Guaranteed by the Commonwealth Government.)
; Vi
Ll_
Js.
\
3k
*Ai
FOR
THOSE
LITTLE
DRIVES
to be found
on all farm
machinery.
“ Mangrovite ”
Leather or Raw-Hide Belting
is by far the best.
It is specially tanned to withstand the effects of grease and grit, and does its
job without a hitch. On cliaffcutter, pump and saw drives —it delivers full
power all the time. Send for a “Mangrovite” belt. It will last you longer
and drive better.
MANGROVITE BELTING LTD.,
Charles Ludowici, Managing Director.
49 York Street (Wynyard Square), Sydney.
POLITICAL
POINTS
Opening the new offices of the Employers’
Federation in Melb., S. M. Bruce emitted
two ideas, one being that the connection
between politics and industrialism is a curse,
and the other that the Arbitration Court
causes more trouble than it cures. Bruce’s
notion, rather hazily expressed, was that
the Court ought to decide “certain great
fundamentals” and leave all the rest to con-
ferences between employers and employees.
If lie had defined what are fundamentals
and what are not the world would have been
wiser. There is something to be said for
the Maoriland system, where the parties are
compelled to talk over their differences under
an officially-appointed chairman before they
can get to the court. Quite often they settle
everything. But even talk shouldn’t take the
place of a vote of members. That is the
thing that wants to be nailed down hard.
Labor politics in N. S. Wales are just one
“crisis” after another. Following the Labor
Daily’s famous bribery plot; and the
struggle between Premier Lang and Lough-
lin; and the latter’s resignation from the
Ministry; and his setting-up of a Country
party with Labor M’s.L.A. Gillies and
Goodin; and the return of Goodin and Gillies
to the fold on their own terms ; and Mutch's
squabble with the Premier because an in-
crease was refused to a man in the Child
Welfare Department (the immediate result
is a Royal Commission and a huge Bar, with
the taxpayer footing all bills) ; and the
expulsion of Seale as president of the
A.L.P.; and the establishment of two
A.L.P. executives; and president Seale’s
Easter conference (president Conroy is to
have his hullabaloo in June) ; and the Pre-
mier’s association with the Seale confer-
ence, and therefore with the casting-out of
the Conroys, of Goodin and Gillies, and of
the old A.L.P. rules-—following these touch-
ing examples of comradely feeling, there has
been a vociferous demand for the political
head of Willis, leader of the Leg. Council
and controller of the Labor Daily. Like
Lang, Willis attended the Seale conference,
and, going further than his fainthearted chief,
warmly approved of all its proceedings,
especially the expulsion of Gillies and Goodin,
for which gentlemen and their friends in the
Ministry he expressed boundless contempt.
So the newspapers have returned to the
familiar story that the Ministry is breaking
up and an early election is certain. It may
be so, but the disorderly crowd will be false
to all its ignoble traditions if it doesn’t
hang on somehow.
Three candidates are already announced
for High Commissioner Ryrie’s constituency
of Warringah (N.S.W.). Archdale Parkhill,
who was gently pushed out of the way in
1922 that Hughes might have a safe seat, is
the Nationalist nominee. Coal-merchant Scott
Fell, who sat for North Shore in the N.S.W.
Assembly, proposes to nominate himself. And
T. P. Conway, who came within 25,678
votes of beating Ityrie at last election, is
the. official Labor man. But Seale’s A.L.P.
Conference has set its curse on him, and
will probably put up some horny-headed
representative of its own.
Queensland Premier Bill McCormack is
iu London and is going to New York, his
visit being “connected with floating a loan.”
So it is speculated that Queensland will
draw out of the Federal loan pool because
the Commonwealth doesn’t find it enough
money, and will go banging around on its
lonesome, as N.S.W. does. McCormack’s
Government already owes three debts in
Nyw York, at 5, 6 and 7 per cent., and is
quite getting to know its way about that
city.
This time there was no silly pretence of
injured pride about the firemen of the
Weeroona, the steamer deputed to take State
and Federal politicians down the bay to
meet the Yorks in Melbourne. When they
refused to budge in quest of the American
fleet they gave as their reason that they had
been insulted by Priminister Bruce. This
time it was just filthy lucre. They demanded
a tenner before they would move, and a ten-
ner they got.
A STICKLER FOR PRINCIPLE.
"When the question of defence was under discussion at the Vic. Labor Party’s Conference last week,
Mr. Scullin, M.H.R., urged that Labor should not .countenance the raising of forces to serve outside
Australia.”
MINISTER FOB DEFENCE AND COMMANDER-IN-CHIEF SCULLIN : “And are you really sure,
comrades, that the enemy has completely invaded our shores ?”
EXCITED COMRADES : “Yes, yes, absolutely!”
SULLEN : “Excellent! Now we know they really mean war, form a screen of the women
and children while we mobilise the army.”
News arrived at the week-end concerning
one of N.S.W.’s wandering Ministerial boys
who are doing Europe at the public expense.
It was as follows:
The N.S.W. Minister for Mines (Mr. Badly) spent
a fortnight on the Continent, principally in Italy,
where he conferred with the chiefs of the Mines
Department with reference to the possibility of utilis-
ing Italian mining methods in Australia.... Mr.
Badly conferred with many Labor leaders in the
mining and other industries, but prefers not to
state his deductions until he returns.
A new encyclopaedia states briefly that
“except for some mines in the former Aus-
trian territory of Istria Italy contains no
deposits of bituminous coal. A very little
anthracite and some lignite are raised annu-
ally. and peat is found in many districts.”
Still, old monarchical Italy is a pleasant
place to linger in when the spring is cold in
London.
There is an unholy row among Port Adel-
aide Laborites because Frank Condon, one
of the two Labor members for the district
in the late Assembly, was ousted from a
supposedly impregnable seat by an old union-
ist who stood as an “Independent Protestant
Laborite”; and wholesale expulsions are
threatened. But that kind of force is no
remedy. Condon’s friends would do much
better to work for single electorates, prefer-
ential voting, and the abolition of the pre-
selection system, which is so often a swindle.
This pre-selection business plays into the
hands of the small minority with racial and
religious prejudices. It is a small minority
everywhere in Australia, but when it can
colorably show that the dice have been loaded
in favor of a particular candidate or clique
it is apt to get formidable allies.
It is an uphill struggle to be a primary
producer and yet keep up the high standard
of living, but the record of the effort is inter-
esting. The Victorian estimate is that the
value of every kind of production during
1925-26 was £55 6s, 4d. for each inhabitant,
"cultivation” supplying £8 2s. 9d. The
£55 6s. 4d. was £4 14s. less than the figure
for 1921-22, and “cultivation” did a drop
of £5 2s. Id. Yet the 81 millions of loan
money spent on land resumptions were mostly
meant to foster “cultivation.”
The Maoriland Reform party, which won
a landslide election the last time, has to face
the electors next year, but isn't worrying
about it. So far there isn’t even a whisper
about a legislative programme for the session
that starts in a few weeks’ time. Of course,
something will be done to keep Parliament
chewing, but Priminster Coates might
make a unique bid for fame by de-
claring that lie has no proposals to
offer. It would be a pleasing innova-
tion, anyway, for over-legislation has
become a bad habit in Coates’s coun-
try as well as Australia.
Vic. Labor is trying to make out that
it had a great moral victory at the general
election. Moral triumphs, real or alleged,
are not counted when divisions are taken;
actually, the party is 28 strong, as it was
before, the only difference being that Drake-
ford (Essendon), Reid (Oakleigh) and Mc-
Kenzie (Wonthaggi) replace McDonald and
Wallace, who were defeated, and Clough,
who wasn’t pre-selected. What Labor didn’t
achieve, but what dissension or cussedness
has accomplished for it, is the breaking of
the 37 on the other side of the House into
fragments varying from 15 to one. Con-
solidation of the fragments is not likely for
many months, so the 28 will rule till it
comes about.
There was a touching artlessness in the
appeal of N.S.W. Premier Lang to his
enraged Caucus to do nothing to accentuate
the unhappy strife raging between the A.L.P.
executives. It was paralleled after a fashion
by another misunderstood person, Rykoff of
the Russian Soviet Government. The latter
humanitarian told a Pan-Russ confemn-
at Moscow that Russia would take radical
measures to abolish armies and armaments.
As a preliminary, it maintains the largest
standing army in the world, and is reported
to be making and storing more poison-gas
than the rest of Europe and America com-
bined.
The heavy, dignified Freetrade press is
driven to occasional admissions. S. M
Herald, after alluding to the stupendous
surplus of imports over the exports which
are supposed to pay for them, and to cover
as well an annual bill of 30 millions or so
for interest and sundries, said: —
This excess has been paid for in part by whatever
was left over from loans raised abroad after paying
interest on past loans raised abroad, and the remainder
has been made good by a reduction of cash balancer
held in London.... What is wanted is a measure of
imports restriction.
Certainly a measure, and not a pint measure,
of “imports restriction” is badly wanted.
But when a weighty and wise-looking organ
like the Herald explains exactly why Aus-
tralian Governments seek gold in London,
when paper in Australia would serve to
pay for local works just as well, it leaves
no room for futile explanations, such as the
Slangwhang Ministry furnishes. Especially
as the Slangwhang Ministry wants as much
gold in London as the other States put
together.
Duustan’s Fourth party of four Country
Progressives in Vic. Assembly is the same
size as Allan’s Cocky party was when it got
under way in 1917-18. The Allan group
induced Bowser, Downward and Carlisle,
who had been Liberals, to join and had gains
at each subsequent general election till the
tally was 13. Theii
Dunstan and Carlisle
became detached, and
Allison, because of
continued illness, de-
cided not to re-nomin-
ate. Weaver, the
wealthiest of the
bunch, was beaten for
the new Eaglehavk-
Korong seat by Dun-
stan. Moncur, a school-
master, has come in
for Walhalla. So after
10 years’ effort the
Allan party has 10, in-
cluding two who were
co-opted, so to speak.
Not very encouraging
for Dunstan.
r No ghosts are so
disconcerting as those
of dead speeches. One
of them rose and smote
Sydney Trades and
Labor Council's Gar-
den betwixt wind and
water on an unpleas-
ant Sunday afternoon
in the Domain. The
friend of Moscow and
comrade of Canton was
inveighing bitterly
against the Federal
Government for refus-
ing to let him visit his
pals in China. An in-
terjector drily referred
him to his own threats
to prevent the Indus-
trial Mission leaving
Australia for America
because he wasn’t a
member of it. Garden’s subsequent dumbness
w 7 as the most unusual performance he has
ever been known to put up.
If Ilogan gets a commission from Baron
Somers to form a Labor Government in
Vic. he will feel a sense of relief that it
will not fall to him, but to the Caucus, to
do the picking. Tunnecliffe, Lemmon, Slater
and Bailey were with Hogan and Prender-
gast in the last Labor Government, and all
six are in the new Assembly. Then Black-
burn is back again, and Cotter has had
nothing, and Jewell has done a lot of useful
whipping for very little reward, and Murphy
has been kept in the background, and the
Bendigo and Geelong men —Cook and Brown-
bill —must stand up for urban representa-
tion. Yet there will be only six portfolios
available for Assemblymen, unless the Labor
Legislative Councillors are to be given one
instead of two. Later on, no doubt, Hogan
will bring in a bill providing for more Minis-
terial plums, but it would be risky to do it
right away.
The Labor members of that Industrial
Commission which the Prime Minister sent
to the United States that it might gather
and disseminate information have become
solid on a policy of secrecy. The informa-
tion they are collecting being all against
the Australian union policy of 44 hours, dead-
level wages, compulsory union contributions
to party funds and the like, they have
demanded that the press shall be shut out
and the facts which are supplied them be
kept a dark mystery. Said facts may leak
out some day in a report weighing several
pounds, but reports are born dead.
THE GLANCE SINISTER.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
‘When I reached the Cabinet meeting,’ Mr. Willis
tuld the Easter Labor Conference, ‘Jack Lang said
to me, “Albert, they want your scalp.” When I had
made it clear that I would not vote to rescind any
of this Conference's resolutions they all rose up and
left the room. They looked at me queerly as they
went out.’ ”
They gave him just the sort of “screw”
Surcharged with menace inner
That Gabbett and his lawless crew
Bestowed upon the comrade who
Was doomed to die —for dinner.
They rose by general consent,
The biz being finished clearly,
And every portfolioed gent.
Before he grabbed his hat and went
Regarded Willis queerly.
Within those sombre eyes was that,
The metaphor to vary,
Which conjures up a lusty cat
Stretched negligent upon the mat
Surveying the canary.
The twitterer’s cage provides a shield
That's temporary merely,
And, but for Lang, his fate is Sealed,
That score of feline' orbs revealed
Which fell on Willis queerly.
In every face but one he met
Brows knitted grimly, greyly.
The secrets told in Cabinet
No scrivener in words shall set
For stickybeaking daily.
But looks are very often more
Than words to tell sincerely
A tale. When tongues had ceased their roar,
Each of the Ministerial corps
Half-turned before he reached the door
And looked at Willis queerly.
N.S.W.
MIDFORD.


Ol* e
tilts
hc»
S
[Hm
%
y,
s® *
44 Have a cigar, old man”—
said Brown with a polite flourish, “ I’ve just
bought these—two shillings for the two.
Ten minutes later, Jones, gazing at his
wrinkled, badly burning smoke, commented.
“A shilling for a cigar like this seems sheer
robbery to me—it’s very mean stuff.” “Oh *
was the answer, ‘‘l didn’t say I gave a shilling
each for both. Yours cost fourpence.”
A good story and a
good cigarette are
worth repeating!
Sw*
(XPi^ESS
20 for ¥6
ARDATH TOBACCO CO: LTD: LONDON
SOCIETY
"And it's
Printed with
WIMBLE'S INKS"
“Strict Veg.": Modern feminine fashions
are a distinct hindrance to persons wishful
to disguise their sex. A young man, sus-
pected of making away with his masters
money, dressed himself up as a giddy flapper
in Melbourne the other day, but his massive
calves and his large feet soon betrayed him
to the detectives at Spencer-street, lhere
ar<> plenty of massive calves that are genuinely
female, but they are massive in a somewhat
different way. Incidentally, the young man,
having no other garments, had to appear at
the watchhouse in his elegant array, spend
the night in them and reappear at the
Williamstown Court next day. Then he was
transferred to the Metropolitan Court at
Coburg, still sartorially of the wrong gender.
He must be pretty sick of bodices, waists,
etc., by now. # #
“TT.10.1v.": Not all the missing ships'
crockery is souvenired. When 1 worked as a
steward on a line of inter-State steamers
we used to heave all sorts of. eating geai
through the handiest porthole if the things
were late for the general wash-up, a job that
went through with lightning speed because
all the stewards had to lend a hand. Our
consciences refused to worry us either, be-
cause the company deducted a certain amount
out of our month’s pay for breakages and
other losses.
-X- * * *
“Wang” : Some years ago a common sight
in the southern suburbs of Melbourne was
a small man attached to a hand truck. His
headquarters were in Prahran, but he would
drag a load out as far as Daudenong. Though
obviously eccentric, he was reliable and
trustworthy, and many tradesmen employed
him to deliver parcels. Armed with a small
whip, he would urge himself on, snorting
gallantly, a steed of mettle. He would shy
violently at a piece of paper, and pull up
at every water trough till a flick of his own
whip set him in motion again. One day in
Chapel-street an old lady watched in utter
amazement; the old chap applying the whip
to himself, and ventured a mild query about
his antics. The man-horse stopped for a
second or two and regarded her with a looiv
that plainly showed he considered her a
spoil-sport. Then he snorted “Horses cant
tork, y’ ole fool,” and with a fresh applica-
tion of the whip he pranced up the street
with his load.
* -X- * *
“Birro Gurra”: The most quaintly-run
pub I ever came across was a roadside house
20 miles from a
large coastal town
in Queensland.
Bung was also
owner of an
adjacent selection,
and thirsty travel-
lers passing that
way on week-days
would always find
the bar closed and
locked. Those who
knew the ropes
would give vent
to some wild “Coo-
ees,” and if mine
host was handy he
would grumblingly
knock off from his
labors with axe or
crowbar to dis-
pense drinks. If
he happened to be
chasing poddies up
in the timber, the
traveller went o n
thirsty. Only on
Sundays would the
inn receive its
owner’s undivided
attention. On that
day lie would fling
wide the front
doors and roll iu a
fresh cask, in pre-
paration for the
influx of teamsters
a n d timber-get-
ters who would
come riding out of
the scrub to swell
his turnover. Only
once did I see the
front door of the
bar open on a
week-day—on the
hectic occasion of
the local races.
There is a marked
difference nowa-
days. A ne w
licensee now loun-
ges behind the
bar-counter every
day. and a dour teetotal John Hop pervades
the landscape on Sundays.
■» * * *
“W.1.U.” : Free and easy administration of
the licensing laws (B. 7/4/-7) is by no
means infrequent in country towns so long as
the boys do not go over the odds. I remember
a South Australian town where, after a
political meeting, both candidates and their
supporters all broke for the nearest pub.
Almost before glasses had been filled, in
THE BEAST!
“I’ m so sorry to hear your engagement is broken off."
"Yes, Charlie acted horribly.”
"But I thought you broke it off yourself!
"Oh, yes; but he made no fuss about it."
came the local John nop. “All boarders,
here” someone had the presence of mind
to call out. “AH boarders right oh, re-
joined the uniformed sport as he. faded ou..
At another countrv town in the same State,
although the bar had not been closed at six
o’clock, I felt a bit dmibtful about having a
spot, as the police station was next door. 4 thi,
that's all right!” exclaimed my host, ‘and
anyhow, even if he did come, I'm the J.l.
-X- * * *
“Coo-ee”: Chatham and Hugliesdale are
not the. only atrocious names recently in-
flicted upon Melbourne suburban stations
(B. 14/4/'2T). On the Heidelberg line, a
stopping place has been dubbed Dennis (not
after the creator of “The Sentimental Bloke
—one might forgive that—but to honor a
local Bumble) : further out a station is
cursed with the label of Montmorency!
Almost within a stone’s-tlirow of Dennis a
more recently built station has been
christened Rushall. In each case native
names were vainly suggested.
“Pulex”: Your true librarian is never
without a grievance. This one had discussed
governing councils, book-selection committees,
silverfish and the book-cutting “bug before
he turned to the deficiencies ot the rising
generation amongst his staff. "Yes, he
remarked, "would you believe it.' Uur cata-
logue clerk is a University graduate, and
I’ve just discovered ‘Chats on British Mam-
mals’ listed under Entomology.” #
“Vagrant Nib": Theodore, which is the
new name of Castle Creek in the Dawson
Valley (C.Q.), where the State Government
has sunk a mint of money in an irrigation
scheme, has become the subject or a novel
bet The township sits on the banks ot the
Dawson River, and old settlers have been
predicting that when the first full-sized flood
comes along the country will be submerged
feet deep. An enthusiastic supporter ot the
Government which has spent all the money
promptly offered to bet £lOO that no flood
would cover the irrigation centre by more
than 5-16th of an inch in the next five years.
A near-by grazier, with a hundred to spare,
promptly said “Done,” and the Moun..
Morgan hospital, which will benefit either
way. is holding the stakes. A 5-16tli inch
mark has been duly made at the central
tower at Theodore to await events. *
“Jack Cade”: There is a reminiscent
flavor in the cabled story of how an English
airman, flying on Good Friday, had Ins plane
riddled by a sliotgun in the hands of an
indignant Sabbatarian. ibis fashion ot
“abating a nuisance.” as the lawyers have
it, was much in favor in the days when tin
motor-car first invaded the sacred rights ot
English roadways. Not only the uncultured
Jacquerie flew to arms, but respected land
holders and chairmen of Quarter Sessions
who had been tipped out of their high dog
carts, sought surcease in putting a coup o'
of barrels of No. 4 shot into the back tyres
of the next iconoclast who banged and stanx
his way along the road. Local magistrates
refused to convict, while they fined motor-
drivers to the limit oil every pretext. It
took some drastic action by the Higher Ups
to straighten things out, too.
* * * *
“Pulex” : “Borom” contends (B. 7/4/’27l
that when a population is moving towards the
disappearing point male births are m the
preponderance. Does the converse hold true.
According to Montgomery Martin s ‘ Aus-
tralia” (published in 1853). in the earl>
days of settlement female births amongst the
live stock were three or four times m excess
of the males. This did not continue and
the births of the sexes soon became equalised.
Martin also claimed that the same phe-
nomenon occurred amongst the settlers them-
selves. According to the early records ot
baptisms in New South W ales, there actuall.i
was an excess of female children in the
community. If excess masculinity of the
total population was a responsible factor, tiic
same thing should have happened in West-
ralia in the ’nineties, but apparently it didn ~.
The theory underlying the Rodier system ot
exterminating rabbits and rats by an arti-
ficially indued excess of males seems to
have, if “Borom” is right, some relation to
Nature’s way of helping a dying race oiu
of existence.
* * * *
“X.D.”: A thief, presumably owning a
duplicate key, opened a showcase outside a
Swanston-strcet (Melbourne) shop the other
day in the luncheon hour, and, lifting out
£4OO worth of diamond rings, walked oft with
them under his coat, while scores of people
looked on admiringly, thinking, if they
thought at all, that he was an employee of
the owner of the gauds. This is the second
case within a few months in which the
apparent straightforwardness of the crime
has disarmed all suspicion. On the previous
occasion (in Collins-street) the thief even
conversed affably with the lookers-on, pointing
out choice item's in his haul.
AEROPLANES.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Whenever I see an aeroplane
My heart is back in France again;
Back in France on the last long night:
And the searchlights reach up coldly white;
Spread their white hands on the shrouded
skies,
And feel the folds for a thing that flies;
For a thing that flies with a droning sound,
And gleams with silver when it is found ;
When it is found, and the ground-gun shots
Dot the nimbus with futile blots;
And the great ’plane goes like a glittering
ghost
Beckoned by his invisible Host;
On and on, and the little puffs
Hang in the skies like maidens’ muffs;
And the droning sound goes up to drown
The hum of the scout ’planes gliding down ;
Gliding down on the flashing heels
Of the Lewis barrels’ whirring reels ;
Rut-tut-tut! and the spitting flames
Darting down in their bitter games;
Darting down on the plodding thing,
Lit in the white light, wing and wing;
Darting down ; and the jolt of it!
The dronings end, and “He’s hit! lies hit.
A BARGAIN.
“Those are lovely furs you are wearing, darling. May I ask how
much they cost?”
“Only three fits of hysterics, dear.”
The groundlings cry, and away above
A lover is coming down to his love;
A lover of Death with his ’plane aflame;
A meteor flight, and another name
To add to a hamlet’s Roll of Fame!
The searchlight fingers come from the sky :
The scouts’ soft dronings exultant die;
And the man beside me says, “Got that chap
I’m after the kitty I'll go nap."
N.S.W.
CECIL MANN.


“Jomac”: Two years
ago a bank clerk was
making the customary
bi-weekly trip by
motor-’bus from Cairns
<Q.) to Gordonvale
with some of the funds
of the institution in
his care. On arrival
at his destination he
missed liis bag _of
money, and. surmising
that it must have
been jolted out during
the i4-milc journey,
hurriedly hired a car
to take him back.
After going 84 miles
the car’s occupants
found the hag intact,
placed rather promi-
nently on a fence post.
A butcher boy had
picked it up and.
lodged it there. It
contained £1250.
* $ ❖
“Bjas”: A recent
cable from England
told of a head-waiter
refusing sdme absurd
sum from a Yankee
for the Prince of
Wales’s cheuue. said
cheque having been
given iu payment of a
£5 dinner bill. There
is nothing to show
whether the waiter’s
refusal to part with
the document was due
to national pride or
native shrewdness, but
I have s ecu the
Prince's signature sold
for much less than the
£5O or £lOO mentioned,
in 1017 the Prince
visited my O. Pin on
Mt. Kemmel in Bel-
gium during the week
or so of bombardments
and raids in prepara-
tion for the Messines
Ridge affair, and. like
all visitors, signed the
Report Book. I was
on duty soon after-
wards when a Tommy
sergeant from h.o.
asked if he could have
the signature. I was
quite willing and
thought no more of it
—until I heard him
“flog” it for 15 francs.
Then I kicked myself
for not having invited
the obliging young man
to sign every page in
the book.
* * *
“N’lmporte” : Th e
almost-forgotten “8 i x
Carpenters” case, men-
tioned in Halsbury’s
“Laws of England.”
was invoked success-
fu 11 y at Babinda
(N.Q.) the other dav.
An Italian club was
raided by the Cairns
police with a warrant
to search for liquor
and papers. The police
found and confiscated
bucketsful of liquor and yards of papers;
they also took some cash which they regarded
as the proceeds of illicit sales. None of the
evidence was challenged and a conviction
scorned to be assured until the lawyer for the
defence dug up the Six Carpenters out of
a musty-looking tome and demanded a dis-
missal. The Six, it appeared, became famous
through the police invading ye olde inn
quite legally; but, once inside, they took
possession of some articles belonging to other
people. In the case of the raided Italian
club the police had no authority under the
warrant or under the Act to take cash, and
the law, as laid down in the ancient case,
upset their applecart. Doubtless the health
of the Six Carpenters lias since been drunk
with honors in the Italian club.
“Baomata”: The pearling luggers in the
Celebes are fitted with oil-driven air com-
pressors, enabling two divers to work simul-
taneously on the bottom from each lugger.
The air is compressed in steel cylinders which
contain, at a pressure of around 2001 b. to
th(' square inch, enough air to supply the
divers for an hour, even if the engine is
stopped. Hori and Ivimura, mates on one
of the luggers, had anchored on a patch of
shell. Other luggers approached, scenting
a remunerative patch, and a lute-comer m
manoeuvring for position collided with Hold’s
lugger and sank her. The first news the
divers had of the accident was when they
came across their lately floating home repos-
ing on the sea bottom. Each man kept his
head. Shutting the outlet valves on their
helmets, they soon inflated the diving dresses
sufficiently to cause them to rise to the
surface, and they were almost immediately
picked up by the nearest lugger, none the
worse. Hori. when lie regained the schooner,
spoke of his experience almost nonchalantly.
"I no much fright, boss. I know nuff air
for one hour. All diver know s’pose shut
valve he must float on top water. My word,
that engine proper good one! He go ahead
underneath water all same on top. I look
see before I come up.” We raised the sunken
lugger the same day. but the engine had
stopped running. None of us believe Hold’s
tale that it ran below water, although he was
regarded as one of the most truthful Japs
on the fleet.
* * * *
“Glen A.” : All royalties must be given a
chance of seeing the native at close rang l .
When the Duke of Edinburgh visited Bris-
bane iu 1868, 60 blacks marched in a pro-
cession to Government House, where they
were halted and stationed at the entrance
gate, 30 on each side, while the Duke’s
carriage passed through. There was l no
vice-regal hospitality for the natives, but they
received a half-crown each and reciprocated
by giving three cheers (or as near as they
could get to it) for the distinguished visitor’s
mother.
After a week of that sort of thing,
We found ourselves doing this sort of tiling,
And now we’re wondering where it will stop.
THE MAGIC OP A SMILE.
“F.S.”: A 12-year-old boy confessed to the -
S. Melbourne police recently that he was one
of a gang of a dozen juvenile desperadoes who
had been responsible for thefts of jewellery
and other articles, and that they had buried
their housebreaking tools in a rockery and
sunk their treasure in the Yarra. It sounded
something of a fairy story of the Tom Sawyer
brand, but search disclosed that the informa-
tion about the tools was right. Now tin 1
Yarra is being dragged to confirm the rest
of the yarn.
“Macess”: I am indebted to an English
paper for the information that “Nuneaton’s
oldest woman, Mrs. Virtue Wilson, has died
at tlie age of 96. She smoked a clay pipe
for 50 years and never went to a cinema.”
For half a century she smoked her pipe,
Favoring a cheap and unassuming clay;
But howsoever slio in years grew ripe,
She surely must have grown... .well,
demodee.
Poor soul, how little could she know, per-
force.
Of Dope, Hootch, Murder, Arson and
Divorce!
“Dingo”: The news that a man at
Warwick (Q.) lias been suffocated by his
false teeth reminds me of a breathless night
off Banda, when an invalid passenger
wakened the whole ship by yelling that he
had swallowed his top plate. There was
no surgeon on board, but I, as a veterinarian,
immediately had greatness thrust upon me
bv the Old Man. We held a hurried con-
sultation outside the victim’s door, the
skipper assuring me that he had chloroform and
a good selection of instruments, and that the
bos'n was the handiest man in emergency
that he had ever sailed with. “But we
won’t open him up till we are certain,” he
added. I was just beginning to realise the
horror of my situation when a Chinese
steward found the missing teeth amongst
the bedclothes.
* * t *
“Retired Volt”: There are few jobs or
professions which have supplied so many
recruits to other lines of business as tele-
graphy. Half the rubber-planters in the
Malay States seem to be ex-cablemen, one
reason being that an attempt on the part
of their firm to pay them in depreciated
dollars about 18 years ago synchronised with
the outbreak of the rubber boom, when any-
body who could distinguish a rubber-seed
from an acorn could become visiting agent
for a London syndicate. But the chief reason
why the t.c. goes into other callings seems
to Ire that during the stilly watches of the
night he has opportunity for study denied to
other men. Among ex-telegraphists I know
a doctor, a dentist and an Australian navy
chaplain. In a Singapore hotel I once woke
up all standing from my afternoon siesta
with the familiar sound of Morse signalling
in my ears. It came from the bedroom of a
missionary next door. He had once watched
the relays at Deniliquin, and he told me
that nothing soothed him so much, after a
day of soul-saving amongst blaspheming sea-
men or suspicious Asiatics, as five minutes’
quick work on the old key.
* * * *
“Mako” : Auckland takes a lively pride in
the fact that so far nothing has visited the
Waitemata Harbor that the wharves cannot
accommodate. When Ihe Renown first
berthed there seven years ago, the captain
remarked that he would berth his vessel
in only three harbors in the world —Auckland,
Hobart and a port in the Philippines. But
the city’s chief triumph was the berthing
of the great Hood, which lay with her nose
almost on to Queen-street, the main thorough-
fare. Constant dredging is needed, for the
Waitemata is not deep close in to shore,
but what the harbor lacks in depth it makes
up in space. It can anchor a big fleet and
still look nearly as empty as on the morning
Cook sailed in.
“Wong” : I was waiting in the main street
of Bowjal (N.S.W.) the other day when
down the road came a flapper on a chestnut
horse, followed by a fine collie. The horse,
a young, nervous thing, objected strongly to
passing the long line of parked cars, and
began turning circles in the roadway. After
one startled glance the dog sized up the
situation and flew at the first car, barking
furiously. The horse, assured that all was
safe there, passed it confidently but paused
at the second. Down the line of about
20 cars went the collie, clearing possible
enemies out of each one in turn, and return-
ing to apprise the horse that all was well
so far. When the line was passed the three
concerned went racing happily down the road
in a cloud of dust.
“X.N.0.” : Horse wasn’t the only thing that
money was lost upon this Eastertide in Syd-
ney. Several pessimists had wagered that
the first real blow that came would pile the
Coogee Pier in ruins on the beach. The pier
is now over 100 yards out from the sea-
wall, and the seaward extremity was in
just about the worst condition to be sub-
jected to any violent stresses. As the storm
raged right up to the sea-wall, the unfinished
and practically unbraced last sections were
just at the point where the breaking waves ex-
pended their maximum force. Crowds came
down to Coogee in the wind and rain on
Good Friday and Easter Saturday and
Sunday to souvenir broken remnants, but
they were disappointed. The structure has
been so well built that the cyclones made no
impression on it.
“C.Q.”: A Kiri of
17 told a curious story
in a Melbourne court
the other dav in
answer to a charge of
being without lawful
means. Unhaony in
her home life, she
asked a sergeant of
police if she would
be justified in leaving
the parental wing, lie
told her that if she
could keep herself re-
spectably the 1a w
could not touch her.
So she left and got a
job with a drapery
firm at £2 I.os. a week,
and found a roof for
12s. 6d. Whereupon
her mother sent i
taxi-cab and, under
the pretence of taking
her to a doctor, landed
her inside the walls
of a convent. She
escaped from the con-
vent by swimming the
Yarra, together with
five other girls, but
her liberty lasted only
a day. The magistrate
considered that the
warrant for her arrest
was only a device for
getting her back into
the institution, and
that a girl witli £1
17s. 6d. a week above
her rent to maintain
herself with could
hardly be described as
being without lawful
means. So he dis-
missed the charge.
* * *
“Coot”: A motor
smash near Mel-
bourne's busiest rail-
way station recently
caused the policeman
on point duty at the
intersection to leave
his post to investigate
matters. A youthful
MffUAT.n bov dropped
his bundle of miners
and for several min-
utes stood at the point
and controlled the
traffic admirably. Upon
bei u g interviewed
later, lie remarked.
“They all did what I
wanted them to ex-
cept one bloke, and I
had to tell him oft'!'
* * *
“Ivoax”: The South
African way of throw-
ing open a new gold-
or diamond-field 18..
24/3/’271 has been in
vogue for many years,
but since I partici-
pated in one of these
“rushes,” the distance
to be run by the
would-be claim-negger
has been substantially
increased. In 1302.
when an extension of
the Rand reef was
gazetted, the starting
line was about 200yds. from the claim bound-
ary. I attended as peg-driver for one enter-
prising syndicate ; our party consisted ot tour
pegmen and a bodyguard of hefty toughs; we
had all practised the business under an ex-
perienced leader for the previous 10 days.
A huge crowd camped in the vicinity of the
starting line the evening before the opening.
At daylight we lined up, a whistle blew, and
I did my best sprint over the short course,
and dashed in a peg, which was immediately
surrounded by 50 others. When I crawled
out of the scrum, similar affairs were going
on for miles. Presently a warden with two
police took all names and pegmarks and we
retired for medical attention. 1 nev
attended the court at which the claims were
allotted; it must have been faced with a
tough job.
* * *
“J.T.C.” : A notice was recently gazetted by
the chairman of a M.L. rabbit-proot fencing-
board declaring that, at the unanimous
request of the ratepayers, the formal poll m
connection with a loan had been dispense
with. This seemed a ease of remarkable
unanimity, but at the foot of the gazette l
was casually mentioned that the total numfier
of ratepayers was three!
BALLADE OE THE OPTIMISTIC GUN.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“Sydney’s Easter Show has experienced the worst
weather in its history.”
Never you mind if the rain’s cornin’ down- —
Long as y’r confidence doesn’t go wet —
Wat if y’r pocket is short of a brown.
Plenty of chances t’ fill it up yet.
Keep up y’r pecker, an’ cut out tli’ fret.
Grousin’ ’ll never buy baby a frock.
Bite on the bullet, an’ never forget:
Goats is born every tick o’ th’ clock.
Sooner ’r later, I'll lay y’ a crown,
Somethin’ worth havin’ ’ll land in th’ net;
Take on an offer t’ show him th’ town ;
Dub up a wad to shove in on a bet;
Swear we’re th’ best mates he ever has
met,
Till he finds out lie’s been handed the knock.
W’at if tli’ Demons ’are all got us set)
Goats is born every tick o’ th’ clock.
Luck is as li’ble to smile as to frown.
Fortune’s a silly ole painted coquette.
< hip day, in fizz y’ can easily drown ;
Nex’ day, be hawkin’ a thirst_ that’s to let.
Don’t get the needle an’ fly in a pet.
Chuck up y’r marble, or do in y’r block.
Milk that is spilled wot’s the use to regret?
Goats is born every tick o’ th’ clock.
Envoy.
Never pays no one to lather a sweat.
Keep in y’r noddle, as firm as a rock,
Plenty of Jugginses owes us a debt.
Goats is born every tick o’ th’ clock.
N.S.W.
J. B. H.


iii
::::
S:
SS=
:S;:
:SS
=SSS:
5S
:S3
I
|I
s
SSS
SS
ISISg
:SS
SSS
■
::g
gi
SS
IS
:?:•
:l:
55
SSSS
SS-i
:IS
K-
5
SSISSkSk
SSSSS
!?. I &
I
SS
;55 5555-
jjllsiiJfeiSgiay
lliilflllttSl
SS=
:I:ISS
ISSI:
:S>:
:SS
S:
I
: :'S:
li
NNS
§BBB§B
SS:
%
Si
Sill
6
s
A
O.
:S
is
Y
?S
o
i:
SS
ESS
SS
;S;
ISI
ES
gggg
SS
SS
SS
IS
ESS
Tins of 2Z5 -
Tins of 50 - 2^9


St
Hi /
I /
ALWAYS ORDER
Schweppes’
Dry Ginger Ale
the Only Original.
REFUSE SUBSTITUTES
AND IMITATIONS.
Manufactured only by
Schweppes, Limited.
Legal Notices.
’■pO the Brothers, Sisters, Uncles, Aunts,
Nephews and Nieces of SABAH
PRANCES COURTNEY (nee Duke), who
died intestate at Napier, in New Zealand, on
the 20th March, 1910, and to all persons
claiming by, through or under them.
PURSUANT to an Order made on the
Ist April, 1927, by a Judge of the Supreme
Court of New Zealand you are hereby called
upon to send in to the undersigned on or
before the Ist November, 1927, your claims to
the estate of the abovenamed deceased, failing
which the said estate will be distributed
amongst those entitled thereto disregarding
your claims.
Dated at Wellington this Ist day of April.
1927.
G. G. ROSE.
Solicitor to the Public Trust Office,
Wellington, New Zealand.
Legal Notices.
nro FRANK STEPHENS, and to any
child or children of the said Frank
Stephens, and to all persons claiming by,
through or under him or them.
PURSUANT to an Order made on the
4th day of March, 1927, by a Judge of the
Supreme Court of New Zealand, you are
hereby called upon to send in to the under-
signed on or before the Ist September, 192 1,
your claims to the estate of Edward Ernest
Stephens, who died intestate on or about the
3rd December, 1925, failing which the said
estate will be distributed amongst those
entitled thereto, disregarding your claim.
DATED at Wellington this 10th day of
March, 1927.
G. G. ROSE.
Solicitor to the Public Trust Office,
Wellington, New Zealand.
“Mapee” : One morning last winter some
loaded trucks were shunted into a siding on
the Brisbane-Pinkenba line, and men work-
ing near by noticed two youths poke their
heads out from under a tarpaulin and look
ALL MET.
“What about goin ’ to the pictures, Billy?"
"We don't hare to-Dad and Mum are just going.”
round inquiringly. The stowaways were
hauled out by a railway official, and in reply
to questions frankly admitted that they had
jumped various trains all the way from
Fremantle (W.A.), and had been six weeks
on the journey; they were making for Win-
ton (N.Q.) and they had mistaken the label
on a loaded truck in iioma-street yards the
night before and hence got a bit out of their
way. The railwayman was so impressed by
their story that he not only refrained from
handing them over to the police, but
obligingly directed them to the nearest main-
line junction and even told, them when the
daily north-bound goods train went through.
“Narara”: Although the.
idea of teaching children to
write with the left hand as
well as with the right has
never been encouraged by
the N.S.W. Department of
Education, I know one
schoolteacher who firmly be-
lieves in it. Being unable
to apply compulsion to his
pupils in this regard, he con-
tented himself with making
his own three children ambi-
dextrous with the pen, and
one of them has good cause
to bless his dad therefor.
The lad entered the office
of a Sydney firm, and some
months ago, while on a holi-
day, was the victim of a
shotgun accident which left
him with his right arm
amputated at the elbow.
Thanks to his father, he can
still hold his job.
“Oxmead” : A touching cable told the other
day of a collision in Glasgow between a
tram and a jiistillery-lorry, with the result
that five barrels of whisky went, to waste.
Not altogether to waste, however, for such
hardy drinkers as happened to be handy
either went down on hands and knees and
lapped up the precious fluid or soaked hand-
kerchiefs and hats in it for subsequent
squeezing out. I can’t help hoping some of
the salvagers were wearing thick, woollen
Scotch caps; one might mop up a lot. of
wet in one of those. Nearly half a century
ago I remember witnessing a somewhat simi-
lar happening in Bristol. A quantity of
port wine had been condemned for some
reason by the Customs authorities, and the
wine merchants on whose premises it was
stored, after the slovenly fashion of those
days, instead of destroying the stuff scien-
tifically, simply piled the barrels in their
back yard and broke them up. A rich flood
of what British grocers label “Fine old
crusted” swirled out into an undrained
lane, and vultures never gathered quicker
to a carcase than a thirsty- crowd came to
that free port. But they showed finer
strategic qualities than the Glaswegians; or
it; may be that what helped them was that
all traffic went behind horses in those days.
Anyhow, in short order they had the gut-
ters down which the wine was flowing banked
up and dammed with all the street _ debris
they could lay hands on. Precious little or
that condemned port went to waste.
* * * *
“Bihai”: The statement that the native
population of New Guinea has started to
decline, and that in the vil-
lages there are now more
boys than girls (B. 7/4/'27).
may be correct as regards
Dutch New Guinea or the
Mandated Territory, but it
is not true of Papua. An
official census was taken
over 10 years ago which
listed every man, woman
and child, as far as it could
be done, and this has been
carefully checked every year
since at the time the poll-
tax is collected. The re-
turns show that practically
all over the mainland there
is a slight but definite up-
ward trend, while the male
and female births are in the
usual ratio. In the Island
Division of the S.E. a curi-
ous phenomenon is noticed.
Where natives live on com-
pletely coral islands, such
as Panaiet, they are in-
creasing, but those living on
islands of which coral forms
but little part are decreas-
ing. At Murua, within the
memory of the oldest living
white, settler, the native
population has decreased by
fully two-thirds.
“Flagwagger” : Many years ago two young
Geelong (Vic.) people of different religions
came to an understanding before the wedding
ceremony. They agreed that, should they
be blessed with children, their first would
be baptised a Roman Catholic, the second
C. of E., the third an R.C.. and so on. Fate
gave them a quiverful of six boys and three
girls, and, true to the agreement, five were
assigned to the Roman Catholic Church and
four to the Church of England. The humor
of it is that every one of the nine has since
found a life-partner of a different religion
to his or her own.
* * * *
“Koax”: Some of the unpopularity of
Australians in South Africa (B. 24/3/’27)
—in Cape Town, at all events—dates back to
a certain hectic week-end in 1901 when the
predecessors of the 1 )iggers broke out of
.Maitland camp, and, with some Canadian
assistance, took the city to pieces. They
finished up by storming the Cape Times
office and forcing the editor, whose unkind
aspersions they resented, to go for his life
over the roofs. That the rioters had some
legitimate grievances was no excuse in the
eyes of the suffering citizens. There were
some regrettable incidents on and off troop-
ships at the Cape during the last war which
served to revive this almost forgotten dislike.
At Durban, on the other hand, nothing
serious ever happened, and the Australians
seemed always popular in Natal.
* * * *
“M.G.S.” : The superstition that a needle
and thread will ward off calamity (B.
14/4/’27) arises from the old belief that
the spirits of evil fear steel worse than they
fear cockcrow, and (secondly) from the fact
that thread binds. Thus, it either keeps
good influences in or keeps bad ones out —
or both. The idea is not confined to Ireland,
it is world-wide. The Malay mother throws
the quinine into the dustbin, but never omits
to tie a colored thread round her offspring's
wrist or neck. The Madurese infant’s first
pair of plus-fours are sewed on him, and he
never takes them off till natural growth
bursts them at the seams. A Chinese variant
is the chain and padlock hung round
children’s necks and never removed until the
village priest, who holds the key, unlocks the
charm after the dangers of puberty have been
negotiated. A Yankee drummer of my
acquaintance did a brisk business with Yale
locks in one district on the grounds that
even the spirits had never succeeded m
forging a master key for Yales.
* * * *
“Lao-dah”: Now we know where some of
them get to. A girl of lb, after being miss-
ing from her Melbourne home for three
weeks, was found in a Chinese opium joint,
where she is alleged to have been living with
a Celestial who picked her up at a suburban
market. She was runner-up in a recent
much-advertised beauty competition.
“Chancery Lane”: Some of these yarns
about old-time Jay Peas might suggest that
wooden-headedness is rare onthemodern bench.
But is it? At Melbourne Children’s Court
the other day a youngster appeared charged
with having a wireless set and no license.
One of the unpaid arrived late, and after
evidence had been given remarked to a neigh-
bor on the bench that it was sad to see so
young a lad “charged with selling liquor with-
out a license.” The other corrected him m
a loud whisper : “No, no ; he used his wireless
GREED.
TTHE VAMP: Oh, yon men arc all alike!”
A VICTIM: “Then why do you darlings want two or three
of us?”
without a license.” “Is that so?” asked the
first. “Have you to pay a license? Why,
I’ve a set. and I never knew that.” Here ft
third magistrate chimed in: “I'm just like
you. I’ll have to see about it at once.” The
boy was fined, and two benevolent old admini-
strators of the law hurried off to obtain
licenses before they should be prosecuted for
infringing it.”
THE ETERNAL QUEST.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“The reptilian note is one of the most prominent
of the Winter season. The newest sports coats show-
crocodile or lizard markings introduced in silk m
a contrasting shade against a darker background.
Cuffs and collars made of reptile skin are very, smait
for tailored costumes, anil are replacing fur. ”
In the cave her man had burrowed, one day
back a million years,
Sat a woman with a furrowed brow and
eyes abrim with tears.
As tnrough piles of furs she hunted
Mot a thing was there, she grunted,
Fit to clothe her any more.
So she sat and suikod and mumbled
O'er the crude apparel jumbled
At her feet upon the floor,
Until her husband stumbled from the chase,
footsore was he,
And in peevish accents grumbled at the late-
ness of his tea.
Out all day to fill the larder had this strenu-
ous hunter been,
And the chase liad been the harder for that
little game he’d seen.
On the floor lie hurled a lizard
That was mostly tail and gizzard,
And a primal oath lie swore.
But the lady seemed delighted
From the moment that she sighted
The limp creature on the floor.
Though her hopes of food were blighted, she
remarked: "The very thing,”
And kicked up her legs, excited, in a smart
Cro-Magnon fling.
All that night as lie lay dreaming ’neatli his
patchwork quilt of fur
Lay his wife beside him scheming. And at
dawn she was astir.
For some hours with fingers nimble,
Sinewed thread and horny thimble
And a pointed bone and thin,
Did she stitch with zeal unbounded.
And the caveman was astounded
When he saw the lizard's skin.
For a skirt had been impounded by this pre-
historic .Jane,
And her figure it surrounded nattily, from
knee to mane.
With the upshot of her labors round her
loins she later strolled
Out among her women neighbors, and 'twas
plain she’d knocked them cold.
And had roused in them a loathing
For their wonted style of clothing
(Knicks of fur were then the mode).
Quite a furore she created
And she w r ent home much elated
At the jealousy they showed.
And it hardly need be stated that, within a
dozen days,
Gowns of fur were antiquated, and skin
frocks were all the craze.
With their languid airs and jaded, up and
down the tribal block,
The smart set of old paraded ev’ry day at
four o'clock.
Aye, the daughters and the mothers,
And the spinsters and the others—
Scarce a tribal butterfly
Who was not proudly wearing
Some new snakeskin model daring,
Cutely draped to catch the eye,
While the tribal knots stood staring, full of
quips and leering smiles,
And the husbands looked on glaring, and
deplored “these modern styles.”
WIRELESS—THE BEAM SYSTEM.
Now, since first the note reptilian into
woman’s raiment crept
Summers possibly a million has the first
inventor slept.
But the furs again grow fusty
And the last year’s fashion musty
.Tust as they were wont to do.
And the woman goes on questing.
Never ceasing, never resting,
For the “note” in style that’s new.
Ever daring is she testing whatsoever fashion
wills,
Blithely deaf to bitter jesting from the bloke
who pays the bills.
N.S.W.
LIN F. WHY.


SPEE
o*o
m
4RD
'AGON
A MAH SIZE TRUCK
EARNS MORE PROFIT
PER LOAD!
1
m
$ m
M.
Did it ever occur to you?
THAT —REO v S low depreciation and economy in operation
mean low-cost transportation service ?
THAT- -REO’S ability to move capacity loads at high
speed saves time —and that time is money ?
THAT —REO SPEED WAGON costs less than 4 pence
per ton mile to operate ?
THAT— YOU SHOULD INVESTIGATE TRANS-
PORTATION ACCORDING TO REO ?
Send for our free Booklet on
How to Operate Motor Trucks for Profit.”
Also details of our new Sales Policy, giving protection against loss of
truck by sickness, accident or death by accident.
REO MOTORS LIMITED
171-175 WILLIAM STREET, SYDNEY, N.S.W.


METROVICK.
HIGH TORQUE
HIGH EFFICIENCY
sdf
SQUIRREL CAGE
INDUCTION MOTORS
sdf
The leading features of our C.K.B. Motors
may be briefly summarised as follows:
1. Low initial cost.
2. Robustness.
3. High starting torque.
-1. High efficiency.
Quick starting.
<;. Lower starting current.
7. Reduced slip.
ers
Melbourne, Sydney, Adelaide,
Brisbane and Wellington (N.Z.).
NOBEL-GLASGOW EXPLOSIVES.
The Standard of Quality throughout the Empire.
Monobel
Samsonite
Gelatine Dynamite
Gelignite
Blasting Gelatine
Dynamite
Safety Fuse
Detonators
Cartridges
In the choice of an Executor or Trustee
it is important to look for Expert Management and Security. These essentials may be obtained
by appointing
THE TRUSTEES, EXECUTORS AND AGENCY COMPANY, LIMITED,
412 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE.
(The Pioneer Trustee Company of Australasia.)
Founded in 1878, this Company was specially incorporated and empowered Acts of Parlia-
ment to undertake the onerous and exacting duties ot Executor and Trustee, and has mirng
experience" of over 48 years administered Trust Funds exceeding £42,000,000 Funds at Present
under administration exceed in value £16,300,000. This is ample evidence of the confidenc
(lie Public in the Company. „ ac „ nnn
SECURITY: Capital (Paid and Uncalled) and Reserves exceed tsso.uuu
Arrange an interview or write for booklet.
DIRECTORS: .
Sir .Tolm Grice (Chairman), Sir J. H. MacFarland, M.A., LT..D. (Vice-Chairman),
Harry Emmerton, R. O. Blackwood, D. Stuart Murray, Alexander Sttwart Manager .
CHAS. R. SMIBERT, General Manager. V. G. WAlbon,
412 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE.
The WILD CAT
COLUMN
Wunderlich, Ltd., manufacturers of ceil-
ing, roofing and other building materials,
—etc. (the co. carries on business in every
Australian State) :
r~ Dividends s
Net Pref. To Re- Re-
Feb., Profits. 7 p.c. Ordinary, serves, serves.
£ £ £ £ £
1917.. 22,810 5600 8 p.c. = 11,407 5,803 28,675
1918.. 22,931 5600 9 „ „ 12,834 4,497 33,175
1919.. 25,961 5600 10 „ „ 15,739 4,622 37,794
1920.. 27,870 5600 10 „ „ 21,784 486 38,280
1921.. 45,837 5600 124 „ „ 37,500 2.737 41,017
1922.. 36,139 5600 10 „ „ 30,000 539 41,556
1923.. 36,800 5600 10 ~ ~ 30,000 1.200 42,756
1924.. 43,540 5600 124 ~ ~ 37,500 440 43,196
1925.. 36,209 5600 10 „ „ 30,000 609 43,805
1926.. 45,336 5600 124 „ „ 37,500 2,236 46,041
Added to goodwill, £3OOO . . . . 43,041
Premiums on new shares, £45,000 . . 88,041
1927.-64,143 5600 14 p.c. = 43,400 15,143 103,184
An outstanding feature of this co. has been
tiie management’s capacity to look ahead and
meet any new development in the fields in
which it operates. The board is giving itself
room to move in the future: capital is to
be increased from £500,000 to £1,000,000,
although nothing is said as to an early
issue—on the 120,000 £1 ordinaries issued
last year at a premium of 7s. 6d. each only
10s. per share had been called to February
28. The 12 months was. easily a record in
the co.’s history, and although the div. on
ordinaries was increased to 14 p.c., there
was ample for reserves and for employees’
shares and superannuation. Goodwill is
in at a substantial amount (£68,702) —£3000
having been added during the year. This
Column would be the last to declare that
there is no goodwill in the solid business
which has been built up, but it has not
taken the item into account. This ex-
plains the difference in reserves as disclosed
by the balance-sheet —£171,886 —and those
of the introductory table. In any case, the
substantial item would be better out of the
balance-sheet. The increased div. is in line
with the board’s policy that existing share-
holders are entitled to the benefit of current
profits. The disadvantage, of course, is that
divs. arc liable to fluctuate.
The co,’s relations with its employees
more or less safeguard it from industrial
trouble. It has inaugurated a profit-sharing
scheme to which it gives the title of staff-
partnership. At February 28 the staff-
partners’ and superannuation fund amounted
to £87,200. Allocations over the past eight
years have been as follows: —
Oerti- Divs., Certi- Divs.,
ficates. etc. ficates. etc.
1920 .. £2450 I 1924 .. £16,175 £2525
1921 ..£19,575 1278 1925 .. 9,675 2470
1922 . . 1572 f 1926 . . 15,000 3905
1923 . . 1,935 1585 1 1927 . . 15,000 5010
Whether earnings can continue for long on
the robust scale of last year is doubtful.
There has been great activity in the con-
struction of office blocks in the capitals, and
suburban building has been brisk; but the
big-building boom, at any rate, must have
an end, being based on the big-loan boom.
The co.’s position at February 28 was
verv strong:—
1920. 1926. 1927.
Shareholders’ capital .. £379,666 £380,000 £439,972
Employees’ ' capital .. • 14,040 72,700 87,200
Liabilities .. .. 38,244 116,595 90,856
Freeholds .. .. 151,559 225,786 272.211
Leaseholds .. .. 9,659 1,226 1,229
Plant, etc .. .. 108,926 148,095 181,890
Stocks 136.396 137,428 156,353
Book debts . . . . 64,342 123,089 135,719
Cash, etc 16,598 6,999 4,032
Lack of information regarding depreciation
makes it impossible to say whether the
allowance lias been sufficient to cover wast-
age and obsolescence. The management may
have made ample provision, but no figures
are given. On this point one can only be
guided by the co.’s past record, which is
excellent. It has been decided to close down
the Brunswick (Melb.) works and transfer
tile manufacture to Vermont. The plant is
to be the most up-to-date in Australia. At
present the clay is carried from the pit
at Vermont to the works at Brunswick. An
immediate query as to depreciation arises
there. Both properties and plant last year
showed substantial increases. Investors need
to note the board’s policy in the matter of
divs. Recent sales ranged from 335. to
375. 6d. with buyers now offering 365. 6d.
There are 300,000 £1 shares, 120,000 of
them paid only to 10s. There is visible
in tangible net assets nearly 275. for each
fully paid and 17s. for each 10s. paid ordi-
nary share.
The Union Trustee Co. :
Ordi- Investment
nary Fluctuation
Feb., Profits. Dividends. Reserves. Reserves.
£ £ £ £
1917.. 9,735 7*p.c.= 7,500 21,887 523
1918.. 10,889 84 „ „ 8,500 24,276 604
1919.. 12.119 94 „ „ 9,500 26,895 709
1920.. 12,420 10 „ ~ 10.000 29,315 734
Transferred to capital, £5,000 24,315 734
1921.. 15,670 10 p.c. = 10,500 29,485 682
Transferred to capital, £5,000 24,485 682
1922.. 14.020 10 p.c. = 11,000 27,505 736
1923.. 15,309 10 „ ~11,000 31,814 1027
1924.. 17,024 10 „ ~ 11.000 37,838 1047
1925.. 20,853 10 „ ~11,000 47,691 1047
1926.. 20,233 10 „ . 11,000 56,924 1063
1927.. 20,706 10 „ ~11,000 66,630 1097
Transferred to capital, £15,000 51,630 1097
The directors decided to call up u further
3s. per share, and “to avoid any inconvenience
to shareholders” a special div. of 3s. was
handed out. It’s a pleasant way of doing it.
The operation involves £15,000 and brings
paid capital to £125,000. Ten per cent, on
the full amount will call for about £BlOO less
than average earnings for the past three
years, and those earnings have been reduced
by writing off the furniture —-£2631 last
year. In the circumstances it is not sur-
prising that big prices are asked for the
shares when they come on the market.
Although there were sales last month at
41s. 6d. a few weeks earlier shares changed
hands at from 525. to 555. The latest
capitalisation is the third since 1920; the
previous two accounted for £5OOO each. (Com-
mission earnings indicate the quick growth
of the co.’s business :
Commission*,
Interest, etc. Expenses.
1895 .. .. £7,799 £4,151
1900 .. .. 5,927 4,861
1905 .. .. 8,916 5,489
1910 .. .. 11,840 7,565
1915 .. .. 17,318 9,728
1920 . . . . 37,029 24,609
1925 . . . . 80,658 59,805
1926 . . . . 81,607 61,374
1927 . . . . 86,869 66,162
The long jump taken between 1920 and
1925 was very largely due to the extension
of the co.’s activities to N. S. Wales a few
years previously. Although the total of
estates is not disclosed, the management
records that “the value of new estates and
trusts during the last six years has amounted
to £11,426,164 —-an average of £1,904,360.’’
Expansion increases administrative exes., of
course, and the fact that the office operates
in three States (Vic., N. S. Wales and
Queensland) does not lighten outgo. The
Union’s strong influence in pastoral circles
lias been one of the chief causes of the big
increase in figures; further, the high value
of pastoral properties and the increased in-
come from most pastoral estates have helped
the commission earnings and given the Union
second place among the trustee cos. of Aus-
tralia.
The co.’s own funds have been well laid
out:—
1915. 1920. 1925. 1927.
Capital .. £73,822 £lOO,OOO £llO,OOO £llO,OOO
Liabilities .. 1,231 6,084 24,401 15,200
Premises .. 50,474 83,925 94,015 93,990
Public securities 32,732 52,668 52.880 60,912
Mortgages and
debentures.. 1,724
Cash, etc. .. 7,117 2,235 21,826 39,004
Sundry debtors
and sundries 1,660 2,305 19,919 4,522
Even after the transfer to capital, reserves
are still substantial, net visible funds at
February 28 totalling £176,630. The 3s. gift
makes the 100,000 £2 10s. shares paid only
to 255., but 20s. of the balance is a reserve
liability, callable only in case of liquidation.
East year’s profits were equal to just on
19 p.c. on paid capital and 12 p.c. on average
funds, so that a continued 10 p.c. and further
plums appear to be as certain as anything
can be in this uncertain world.
* * * *
London Stores, Ltd., men’s outfitters,
etc. (Melbourne), which began with £26,368
of capital represented by goodwill, etc.: —-
Written To Re- Re-
Feb., Profits. Dividends. Off. serves, serves.
■£ £ £ £
1917.. 18,330 10 p.c. = 7,000 549 10,781 8,762
1918.. 19,040 10 „ „ 7,000 496 11,544 20,306
1919.. 22.111 15 „ „ 10,500 487 11,124 31.430
1920.. 28.829 15 „ „ 10,500 524 17,805 49 235
1921.. 29,142 171 „ „ 15,250 491 13,401 62,636
1922.. 31,822 17* „ „ 17,500 494 13,828 76,464
Alterations account disappears. . 2,066 78,530
1923.. 48,104 27*p.e.= 27,500 455 20,149 98,679
Dropped into reserves . . .. 5,317 103,996
Profit on sale of freehold . . 27,355 131,351
Reserves capitalised, £lOO,OOO . . 31,351
1924.. 50,327 15 p.e.= 30,000 447 19,880 51,231
1925.. 49,634 15 „ „ 30,000 524 19,110 70,341
Prefs. Ords.
9 p.c. 7* p.c.
1926.. 28,048 4500 15,000 583 7,965 78,306
1926.. 21,117 9000 15,000 623 74,800
Disorganisation due to the mess of building
new premises on the business site affected
earnings throughout the term. The result was
that, although gross profits were slightly
better than in the preceding 12 months, the
cost of handling the business was a good
deal heavier. When the building was put
in hand the year before last, the directors
estimated that there would be a loss of
£L r >.ooo during the period of construction;
instead, profits totalling almost ffiO.OOO were
earned, sufficient to justify two 7* p.c. divs.
to ordinaries, although last year the div. was
not quite earned. And shareholders did
even better than that, for in 1926 they
were given at par 100,000 9 p.c. prefs.
raised in order to help pay for the new build-
ing ; and only four years ago they got share
for share in a buckshee distribution. Now
that the premises are completed, “a very
satisfactory increase" in turnover is re-
ported. Gross profit figures are certainly
very heartening:—
1916 .. £56,396 1922 .. £115,892
191 T .. 61,809 1923 .. 139,695
1918 . . 67.740 1924 .. 139,436
1919 . . 75,983 1925 . . 157,226
1920 . . 95,160 1926 .. 127,644
1921 . . 101,332 1927 . . 133,202
It will be necessary, of course, to keep
expenditure well in hand: and as the greater
area will call for a bigger staff and heavier
stock, reduction of expenditure won’t be
easy. Nor will the speeding-up of turnover
in a concern which has already established
a high-speed standard in the matter of clear-
ing its shelves.
A heavy amount is sunk in premises. The
management has, however, lightened its
burden by obtaining £I29,<XX) on mortgage,
and that should help so long as business con-
tinues good. It is worth noting in this con-
nection that: the co. did very well in 1925
when £222,108 was sunk in property: profit
that year was equal to 18 p.c. on capital and
reserves. Balance-sheet movements have
been -
1920. 1924. 1926. 1927.
Liabilities .. £36,100 £137,664 £135,730 £136,721
Stock.. .. 98,819 102,837 141,043 135,437
Property, etc. 40,199 217,744 290,143 357,027
Book debts . . 5,054 55,207 4,850 4,301
Plant, etc. . . 4,714 3,658 4,803 5,004
Cash, etc. . . 20,465 28,150 76,697 28,252
Of the liabilities, trading debts were a mere
£7721. That and the smallness of book debts
disclose the chief source of the co.’s success
—cash buying and quick, selling on a cash
basis. The expansion of departments will,
however, probably bring some slower-moving
lines into the business. Goodwill still figures
in the accounts, but the amount is exceeded
by accumulations to the extent of £74,800.
Though it seems unlikely that the co. can
duplicate the past, with its war and post-war
booms and I in the earlier years) practically
all the funds in quick-moving stock, the mar-
ket likes the keenness of the management and
is optimistic—there are buyers at 355. 3d.
* * * -X-
McDowells, Ltd., formerly McDowell and
Hughes. Ltd., which was reconstructed in
1920, eight fully-paids being given for every
five shares held, goodwill given a book value
of £16,693. and leases written up (in the table
the goodwill of this Sydney retail drapery
store has not been treated as an asset) :
Towards
, Dividends > Re-
Feb., Profit. Pref. Ord. Total, serves. Deficit.
1921*. . £5,274 8 p.c. 7 p.c. £4970 £304 £16,389
1922 .. 5,579 8 „ 5 ~ 5742 16,552
1923 .. 11,464 8 „ 71 „ 8284 3180 13,372
£26,100 of capital written off; goodwill
expelled and leases and other assets written
down. Reserves.
1924 .. 14,606 8 p.c. 10 p.c. 8,630 6,976 9,297
1925 .. 27,760 8 „ 12* „ 10,588 17,172 26,469
1926 . . 23,668 8 „ 12* „ 18,902 4,766 31,235
1927 . . 40,127 8 „ 15 „ 27,539 12,588 43,823
* Eight months.
This progressive firm is making things hum.
Last year’s profit was almost twice as great as
that for the previous term, partly explained
by the fact that the capital raised in 1925 —
almost £lOO,OOO- -was at work all through
the last 12 months. Expenditure in-
creased, of course, but the amount,
available for distribution was £16,45S
greater than in 1926. Good buying
and brisk turnover were the chief factors.
The new capital was utilised chiefly to
buy the old established business of W. T.
Waters, including its King-street freehold
and a 40-years' lease, as well as the George-
street property in which McDowell’s had
grown and prospered. Results confirm the
wisdom of the purchase. The possession of
such valuable blocks near the heart of Syd-
ney’s shopping area means sinking a lot of
capital, but there was goodwill in both sites
and the directors attribute much of last
year’s success to that fact. Balance-sheet
movements reflect the year’s progress:—
1924. 1925. 1926. 1927.
Mortgages . . - £62,500 £62,500
Sundry creditors £6,955 £456 9,347 26,122
Freeholds, lease-
holds, etc. .. 11,276 11.583 \ m m 181,358
Investments .. 1,561 17.292 1 ’
Stock . . . . 63,011 58,800 61,114 100,216
Book debts .. 22,893 23,078 28,520 30,710
Cash, etc. .. 13,135 14,754 34,854 33,340
The modest amount owing to sundry credi-
tors was more than covered by cash in hand.
“Freehold property and investments” in-
creased a trifle at £164,217. It is obvious
that only a small part of that item is
composed of investments. In any case, the
inclusion of investments with freeholds in
the balance-sheet is without any point to
commend it. Despite the larger div., £12,000
was added to reserves, bringing the amount
to £42.000 plus £1823 undistributed balance.
That is a respectable addition, but substan-
tial reserves are desirable in view of the
heavy falls which recent history has shown
are liable in the retail rag trade. It must
be remembered that in a growing business
of this kind management plays an immense
part. The market thinks well of this co's
handling: there are buyers of its ordinary
shares at 38s. after sales at that figure.
The visible net assets are worth 25s per ordi-
nary share, after providing for the 10,000 £1
prefs.
* * * *
George A. Bond Cotton Mills, Ltd. -
This co. takes care of an important addition
to Australia’s growing textile industry. It
was formed last year to buy the cotton-
spinning and weaving section of the big
Bond concern. Of paid capital of £350,407,
£.100,000 is in 8 p.c. cum. prefs., divs. guar-
anteed by the parent co. for 20 years; prefs.
have priority as to capital in the event of
liquidation. George A. Bond and Co., Ltd.,
took the ordinaries for assets transferred.
Registered on April 9, the new co. took over as
from .Tan. 1, 1926. Accounts for the first
12 months show that operations, assisted
by a new Customs tariff, were satisfactory.
Profit was £29,260 less £5120 reserved for
income-tax. Prefs. received their 8 p.c. for
the nine months to December 31; ordinaries
were given 4 p.c.; £4OOO was written off
preliminary expenses, and £4124 was carried
forward. The directors say that during the
year they spun as large a proportion of
Australian-grown cotton as possible. Under
the .Cotton Bounty Act the use of at least
50 p.c. of Australian-grown is compulsory
where the bounty is to be claimed. For the
current year the crop is expected to be light,
but the promise has been given by the
Minister that the bounty will be paid pro-
vided all the available Australian cotton is
used. Bond and Co., in conjunction with
other Australian buyers, have purchased the
entire crop, and they can’t do more than
that. Factory production for the year was
considered highly satisfactory; but there are
cotton tweeds and many other cotton cloths
that could be manufactured in Australia and
should be removed from the free list. Already
the co.’s wages-sheet carries more than 600
names, and additional plant is being installed.
The directors declare that the profit was
struck after ample provision had been made
for depreciation. At December 31 sundry
creditors and bank overdraft stood at
£103,618, against which were £133,272 in
book debts, £65,288 in stock, £256,230 in
property and plant, with cash, etc., £2843.
There is still £2515 of preliminary exes., but
that is more than offset by the undistributed
balance. Pref. shareholders could see assets
approximating £3 for every share. The out-
look is promising, judged on the profit won
for the first year and the high quality of
the co.’s fabrics. The pref. shares are listed
and recent sales were at 225.
* * * *
The Perpetual Executors. Trustees
and Agency Co. (W.A.), Ltd., which
started with £1360 of its capital gone in
preliminary exes.:—
Towards
Profit. Dividends. Reserves. Deficit.
Dec., 1922.. £155 Nil £155 £1205
Additional preliminary exes., £BB6 .. 2091
June, 1923.. 222 Nil 222 1869
Additional preliminary exes., £lB .. 1887
Dec., 1923.. 660 Nil 660 1227
Reserves.
June, 1924.. 1601 Nil 1601 374
Deo., 1924.. 1674 5 p.c. =£1575 99 473
June, 1925.. 2903 5 „ „ 1575 1328 1801
Dec., 1925.. 2342 5 „ „ 1575 767 2568
June, 1926.. 2723 6 „ „ 1890 833 3391
Dec., 1926.. 2655 6 „ „ 1890 765 4156
Although the co. was formed in 1922. its
Act was not passed till February, 1923, so
it took less than two years to reach the
div. stage. As an opener, big six-storeyed
premises on St. George’s-terrace were bought
for £47,519. Rents last year were £7334,
including £936 the co. charged itself —a nice
return. Revenue for the December half,
other than rents, consisted of commission
£4571 and interest £263. The increase in
commission earnings shows that the number
of estates submitted to the co.’s care is
increasing, but the volume of trusts is not dis-
closed. The higher div. was not unduly
liberal, for respectable additions were made
to reserves during the term. Liabilities
were nominal. Assets consisted of premises,
£57,291; Government stock. £9150; cash,
£2108; and £2245 in book debts, etc. _ There
is additional security for trusts in the
£147,000 uncalled on the 210,000 £1 shares,
which are paid only to 6s. each; and it has
got a first-class board.
• * * *
The Farmers and Citizens’ Trustees
Co. (Bendigo, Vic.) :
To
Dec., Profits. Dividends. Reserves. Reserves.
1916. .£734 5 p.c. = £589 £145 £569
1917.. 995 5 „ „ 589 406 975
1918.. 835 5 „„ 589 246 1221
1919.. 911 5 ~ „ 589 322 1543
1920.. 1052 5 „„ 589 463 2006
1921.. 1188 6 „ „ 707 481 2487
1922.. 1239 6 „ „ 707 532 3019
1923.. 1092 6 „ „ 707 385 3404
1924.. 1064 6 „ „ 706 358 3<62
1925.. 1184 6 ~ „ 707 477 4239
1926.. 1323 7 „ „ 824 499 4/38
Commission earnings are increasing nicely :
but the securities in which the co.’s money is
placed don’t help profits very much: £IO,(HH
of the £17,411 of total assets at Dec. 31 was


THE WEARY-GO-ROUND.


Don’t Lose Your
MONEY!
The
" Wild Cat; Monthly"
Analyses the Position of Companies
and Stocks and Discusses New Issues.
The Story of Holden’s
April Number NOW ON SALE.
SINGLE COPY, 2/-
PER ANNUM, 22/6.
From
Principal Newsagents,
or
“The Bulletin” Offices,
Sydney or Melbourne.
We stock + GF + Malleable Fittings to suit
every requirement, and as there are over 7500
varieties to choose from, we can accommodate any
trade. For water, steam or gas. Will not split or
crack, and are correct in every detail. Obtainable
from William Adams & Co., Ltd., Sole Agents,
Sydney, Newcastle, Melbourne, Brisbane, Adelaide,
Perth.— ADVt.
Save time and expense by installing Pioneer Wooc
Pipe as the all purpose conduit iu your next water
. scheme. Pioneer Wood Pipe is made entirely ir
Australia, and is proving its economical efficiency all
over the Commonwealth. Light and convenient tr
freight, it can be transported and installed at a frac-
tion of the cost required by metal piping. Bust
and corrosion proof, Pioneer Wood Pipe gives year.*
of trouble-free and consistent full-delivery service.
The Australian Wood Pipe Co., Ltd., Burns Bay
Road, Lane Cove, N.S.W. —Adyt.
* * * *
WIRE ROPES—AUSTRALIAN MADE—Prices and
particulars from llullivants’ Australian Co.. Ltd.,
331-333 Kent Street, Sydney: B. K. Morton Pro-
prietary, Ltd., 85 Clarence Street, Sydney: J. K.
Reid and Sons, 401-403 Kent Street, Sydney, Success-
fully used all over the Commonwealth for all pur-
poses. AI)VT.
* * * *
In vectors. —Have you an idea worth patenting?
Griffith tc Hassel, Patent Attorney, 77 Castlereagli
Street, Sydney, obtain Commonwealth and foreign
patents.— Advt.
* » « •
IDEAS —Commonwealth and Foreign Patent*
obtained. Colli.son k Co., 483 Collins Street, Mel-
bourne. and Adelaide. Thirty years' practice. Write
us for Inventors’ Guide. — Advt.
If you are a producer of ores, mattes, metals ano
metalliferous residues of any kind, Burkard ane
Co., Ltd., 26-30 Bridge Street, Sydney, are buyen
for U.K., Continent of Europe and U.S.A. smelter*,
and will pay you the highest prices and give you
best terms. Advances made against ore —-and mark';
information, prices, assays at your disposal. Sene
samples and particulars.— Advt.
«■ * * *
Lepi.asthiers’ Concrete Mixers —of all necessary
sizes—are designed and manufactured in Australia by
expert engineers. Apply Goldsbrough House, Sydney
Collins House, Melbourne; 164 Edward Street, Bris-
bane : or 21 Morphett Street, Adelaide. — Advt.
The Mutual Life and Citizens’
Assurance Co. Ltd.
The “M.L.C,”
Probate Contract.
THE INVESTMENT TO MEET THE
INEVITABLE DEATH DUTIES.
As a man’s wealth accumulates he
should assist his executors by taking out
one of these contracts. They are issued
on a basis highly profitable to his estate,
besides providing the necessary cash to
meet the very substantial Death Duties
(State or Federal) on deceased estates,
without disturbing existing investments,
or necessitating heavy borrowing for
the purpose, a course which is bound
to involve a lengthy delay in the distri-
bution of tiie estate to the legatees.
JOHN J. OAR VAN,
Managing Director.
*
&
pOORD^SON
FINEST DRY GIN
&. OLD TOM
fa.
DT
-Swift & Company Ltd.. Australasian Audits. 26 30 Clarence St., Sydney
Insure with the
Australian Mutual Fire Insurance Society, Limited.
ESTABLISHED 1872.
Head Office: Dalton House, 115 Pitt Street Sydney.
The Oldest Mutual Fire Office in Australia.
Support the Australian Company which invests all its Funds in Australia.
Losses from Fire. Marine. Personal Accident. Workmen's Compensation.
Motor Car. Plate-Glass Breakage. Burglary, Guarantee, Give Stock,
Crops, Stacks, Hailstone, etc., Covered at Lowest Kates.
VICTORIAN BRANCH. 50 Queen Street, Melbourne.
QUEENSLAND BRANCH, 118 Eagle Street, Brisbane.
CLAIMS PROMPTLY AND EQUITABLY SETTLED.
AGENTS IN ALL PRINCIPAL COUNTRY TOWNS
SYDNEY H. CARY, J.P., Chairman.
G. HOWARD POPE, General Manager.
Queensland
Insurance Co.
Ltd.
Head Office:
Pitt & Bridge Streets,
Sydney.
The Largest
Australian Company
transacting
Fire, Marine, Personal
Accident and Sickness.
Burglary, Live Stock.
Public Risk, Boiler Ex-
plosion, Workers’ Com-
pensation, etc., etc.
in Victorian 3 p.c. stock. Of tlic other
investments £4300 was in Commonwealth
stock, £lO9B in mortgages and £1297 in cash.
However, divs. call for only a small sum
i capital is but £11,780), and commission
earnings should be sufficient to cover expenses
and 7 p.c. divs., leaving most of the income
from investments to build up reserves. Net
assets at l)ee. 31 amounted to £16,518, and
to that backing can be added £11,780 call-
able on the 23,560 shares paid to 10s.
The “Wu.d Cat" Monthly hasn't been
adding thousands to its circulation with
each succeeding issue as its parent, The
Bulletin, has been doing lately, but its pro-
gress, too, since its enlargement has been
very satisfactory. It is a good guide for the
investor —not as good as it should be, but
coming on. For May (the number will be
published on Saturday week) the question is
discussed “How do you pick investments for
safety?” and there are not many people
who won’t want to know liow to do it.
Wunderliclis’ most interesting career is dealt
with in the “Business Biography” of the
month ; and there is the usual large amount
of valuable advice re new issues, etc., along
with the dissection of recent balance-sheets.
* =!: $
In the past Westralia’s Geological Survey
and Mines Department have had little in
common, but there is likely to be soon an
end to such foolishness. Amalgamation of
the departments is talked of, and the Min-
ister cannot bring it about too soon. On
amalgamation, heads could confer on such
matters as suitable location for operating
diamond-drill plants. Old prospecting
methods have not brought in a winner for
some years, so a change is due. Systematic
drilling, with the brains of the joint depart-
ments behind it, cannot be less successful
than the other processes, and there is a
good chance of its being a great deal more
so.
Associated’s Canadian gold- and silver-
mines are doing better than ever. So far
this year’s output of silver from the Keeley
is well ahead of that for the corresponding
period of 1926, while the gold yield from
Vipond Consols still soars. Attracted by
Associated’s success, other Westralian gold-
mining cos. are trying their luck in Canada,
but so far have got nothing to boast about.
An attempt is being made to interest
London in the Wilga coalfield fW.A.). Wilga
is quite close to Collie, and is said to have
immense deposits “just as good as Collie”;
but if any more collieries are started in the
West they will have to either undersell the
older-established producers or share with
them in the limited trade available at ruling
prices. State Mining-Engineer Montgomery,
who delved deeply into the subject some time
ago, declared: “If the Wilga deposits were
opened up and competition in an open market
followed, some of the Wilga mines could
probably succeed in maintaining themselves
against the old concerns on their merits;
but while the existing system of high prices,
Jow outputs and sharing of trade by arrange-
ment instead of by competition persists, it
would only make tile position worse to open
new mines.” In short, the trading position
and policy of new mines at Wilga calls for
the serious consideration of investors before
they go any further.
Three working owners of New Mararoa,
which adjoins the old Mararoa at Norseman,
have one of the best privately-owned gold-
mining shows in the West. ■ Crushing's worth
£3 per ton are being got from a quartz reef
of fair width and length, and thousands of
tons of ore of this grade arc in sight. The
old Mararoa is also enjoying a new lease of
life, and present returns are giving the old
Mararoa Co., which abandoned the show to go
elsewhere, something to ponder over.
* * *
About 80 Westralian goldmines have paid
<?ivs., but only one—South Kalgurli—is
doing so at present. Perseverance, Lake
View and Star (with which is incorporated
the Ivanhoe and Boulder Main lieef) have
not yet finished, and Boulder and Horse-
shoe may distribute a little in the future. Of
the remainder, some provide a living or
more for tributors, and some serve as a
“source of production” for stolen gold.
* * * *
Great Boulder tributing parties—2B in
all—continue to show the co. where and
how to get gold. Last month they won
£14,930 worth out of 1874 tons of rock com-
pared with £6491 worth obtained bv the
co. from 4824 tons. Thirteen tributors’ par-
cels aggregating 877 tons gave an average
yield of £l3 10s. per ton. The richest of
these parcels returned £64 per ton and the
poorest £5. The recoverable value of the ore
treated by the co. was 265. lid.
Eldorado, Gaffney’s Creek (Vic.), after
spending £16,154, is getting near a dividend.
A 10-head battery ought to be at work in
about six weeks on 2000 tons of stone opened
up and said to be worth 3oz. For very
many years the mine has been notable for
short and rich reefs. A lot of dead work has
been done and the show is fairly well opened
up. Of course there is the usual Government
loan (£3166), which generally catches more
votes than it does gold. The Vie. State
goldmining grant has been reduced to £5OOO
a year—a mere dole which is mostly wasted.
Over £30,000 was outstanding last financial
year on this account. The Eldorado co. is
an exception ; its shareholders have put up a
gallant fight, which seems likely to be
rewarded.
'?■ : !>
Mining men at Broken Hill have been
deeply interested in recent geo-physical elec-
trical surveys made there. Briefly, current
coming from a battery is made to "make
and break,” this action giving a loud
knocking sound which is transmitted into
the earth. The current, under a pressure
of 10,000 volts or more, travels through
the earth in a series of parabolic curves fill-
ing a mass of ground, basin-shaped, the mass
varying according to the width of the trans-
mitting and receiving points. In ground
barren of mineral, the knocking from the
battery is heard quite distinctly in ear-
phones at the reception-point. In highly-
mineralised country, the knocking decreases
in volume or is lost altogether. Local ex-
perts display their usual caution, but it
is known that the instruments have accu-
rately mapped out ore bodies already
charted. The instruments showed bodies in
the Great Northern Blocks, which adjoin
the North mine leases although not in a
direct line with that mine, and at the Pin-
nacles. The accuracy of the surveys is to
be tested by drill.
* * * *
The new opal field at Grawin (N.S.W.) is
progressing. About 150 men are now at
work. The claims extend round and along
a range of hills about 40 miles from Walgett.
The country is much the same as that of
Lightning Ridge. One stone from the
Grawin field realised £450 in Sydney lately.
Water will be a drawback until the sub-
artesian bore is put down by the Government
—though Morendah station, on which the
digging is taking place, is allowing the
miners the use of a tank.
$ H: $
The swan song of Tingha Tin as an Aus-
tralian dredging concern has been broad-
casted. The dredge closed down last Novem-
ber, and makes one more on the list of
suction-cutters which have proved duds.
The go’s areas and plant at Tingha are being
disposed of. The dredge put through 120,000
yards in the year for 46.75 tons. This, which
would have been a good return in Malaya,
resulted in a loss of £lOB6 in Australia. So
far the plant has realised £12,500, and an-
other £4500 is hoped for. Capital is £54,971.
Cash balance was £2379, with creditors
£1760. Assets included mine, £24.732 ; plant,
£21,906; and oddments. The subsidiary co.,
Tingha Eastern Development, is testing a
property in Malaya. Tingha co. holds four-
fifths of the shares in the new co.; the
balance may be utilised in acquiring areas.
* * * *
Wilkinson’s Amalgamated, Yalwal (N. 8.
Wales), got 270 z. from a trial parcel of
82 tons treated by the battery and run
direct to the cyanide vats. This 6-Jdwt. yield
is expected to be much improved on when
the dry-crushing plant is in commission, and
further recoveries will not be looked for
until this is ready. In such an accessible
district as Nowra, costs should not eat up
all the earnings.
Flagstone's belated balance-sheet is avail-
able. “While the battery was running,” says
the report, “36 tons concentrates were
recovered, worth £5600.” Tin sales brought
in £4775. and £377 was the net working
result, out of which a 6d. die. lifted £290,
and left £B7 to go forward. The accounts,
are compiled to January 31. and show that
development mopped up £4331, and that the
co. owed £3463, while prelim, exes, of £434
are still running loose. Liquid assets are in
at £lO. and ore on hand at £250. Capital
is in 7500 fully paids of £5 each, and 4500
contribs. on which £11,208 had been received;
a ss. call has been struck since. The mine
is put in at £35,414, and plant at £9434.
The shares are unquotable at the moment.
So long as the emissaries of the Anglo-
African Corporation confined themselves to
the mines, it looked as though the big inter-
national concern would exercise its option
on 500,000 shares in Mt. Isa; but when they
began to inquire into the economics of the
proposition the outlook altered, and Cor-
bould, the managing director, was so little
confident that he had made arrangements
to rush to London to consider alternative
schemes on propositions before the co. had
sent in its verdict. That raises the question
whether the matter has been well handled
at* this end. If. for instance, the Anglo-
Afriean people had reason to believe that
the directors were ready to consider some
less favorable proposition, would they be
likely to make haste to accept the old one?
Anyway, the position so far as the mine is
concerned hasn’t been altered in the least.
A very great quantity of ore has been proved :
and if the Anglo-Afriean won’t come to terms
somebody else certainly will.
Queensland Board of Trade and Arbitra-
tion recently inspected the Mt. Morgan
mine, an application having been made by
the employees for a new wages award. The
claim was for a basic wage of £4 10s. as
against the £4 ss. declared a year ago. In
opposing the claim the co. shot in some
interesting figures. In 1021. when copper
was £7O 15s. 6d., 50 tons of ore furnished
a ton of copper. To-day, with copper at
£6l 6s. 6d. it takes 205 tons of ore io pro-
duce a ton of copper. The employees’ repre-
sentative, in pressing for the 90s. basic wage,
said that other Queensland industries had
suffered more heavily than the Mount, yet
were paying. the wage. The co., in applying
for an adjournment till June next, said that
the American copner-mining expert recently
brought to report on the possibilities of
open-cut working would not take the respon-
sibility of giving a definite opinion. “Con-
ditions were such and the margin of profit
so fine” that he preferred to consult other
expert opinion in America and would for-
ward a joint renort by the end of May. The
co., on receiving the report, would know
where it stood, and consider whether it was
worth while going on. The Court decided
to adjourn to June. Meantime the enter-
prising Minister for Mines might offer a
prize of £5OOO for a scheme acceptable to the
workers for reducing wages without also
reducing the standard of living. It would
do far more good than £lO,OOO spent on pros-
pecting.
Mount Morgan holders got a scare when
the Melbourne office received a wire saying
that sulphur fumes were noticeable in the
open cut over the old pyritic flux stopes.
There is no sign of fire below the 363 ft. level,
though every safeguard against another out-
break is being taken. The ore combustion is
probably purely local.
* * * *
Queensland Minister for Mines Jones has
been telling Melbourne about the revival in
tin-mining up north, and he was particularly
grateful to “southern interests” for investi-
gating N.Q. propositions, which had resulted
in many dredging and sluicing areas being
taken up. As a matter of fact, for many
years Queensland made not the slightest
effort to assist tin production, though gold,
silver and copper development was expen-
sively coddled. Barriug a few sluicing pro-
positions and an odd lode show, tin has been
left to the “scratchers.” The Minister’s ex-
pressed intention of providing, for the amal-
gamation _ of sluicing areas where bucket
dredging is called for has therefore come none
too soon. There are very large areas suitable
for bucket work. and the recognition of this
fact in the mining laws will probably result
in their being thoroughly tested, provided a
decent acreage can be taken up by the co.
desiring to set in.
* * * *
A co. has been formed in Melbourne to
work what is now known as the Metropoli-
tan at Kangaroo Hills (N.Q.), and mining
has already been commenced on a small
scale. For the past two years the owner
has been getting good returns from a shal-
low shoot. The lode produced a large ton-
nage, years ago when owned by the Mt.
Brown Tin Co., and is one of the most
extensive lode formations on the field. The
mine cost £2OOO in cash, phis £25011 in
shares.
Wet weather has been mainly responsible
for the small crushing# this year at Mt.
Coolon (Q.). Sands have been treated yield-
ing about 400 oz. Mining has been continued
at the Native Bear (Barclay’s) and the
Mt. Coolon, and returns from about 400
tons should brighten up the record in a week
or two. This will probably run between
3oz. or 4oz. The Empire mill is treating 50
tons from the old Golden Bar.
Queensland’s mineral wealth produced in
1926 was worth £1,608.741. or £403.936 Jes,s
than in 1925. Notwithstanding these figures.
Henry Marshall, Under-Secretary for Mines,
in his just issued annual report, takes a
cheery view. The decrease, he suggests, is
due not to the failure in quantity or quality
of the ore bodies or unreasonable industrial
conditions, but to obsolete methods of treat-
ment and out-of-date plants. He hopes to
see Mount Morgan and Mount Elliott sur-
vive. these drawbacks by means of increased
efficiency in concentration and treatment in
reverbs in the former and leaching in the
latter ease. It is rather unfortunate that
sla p on top of Marshall’s report came the
decision of the Anglo-Afriean Co. not to
exercise its Isa option on account of stiff
taxation, high freight costs and wages, and
onerous industrial regulations.
The long-drawn-out dispute over the Edie
('reek leases in New Guinea shows signs
of entering on the final lap. I*. C. Mac-
Gregor, the Queensland barrister sent up
by the Federal Government to investigate
the affair, is sitting- at Rabaul, and will
leave for the field on Saturday. Boyce, K.C.,
is for the leaseholders, W. B. Simpson for
the miners, and L. C. Badham for the N.G.
Administration —all are Sydney barristers.
There is going to be a good-sized clean-up
when that party finishes its work.
Guinea Gold, the Bulolo show which seems
likeliest to test the value of the New Guinea
field as a sluicing proposition, has received a
yardage report from field-engineer J. C. Cold-
ham. Measurements of wash in the eo.’s
original lease show an approximate 1,070,000
cubic yards. The Koranga section, said to
be the richest, contains 33,000 c.y., the upper
Kaili section 1,000,000 c.y., and the lower
37,000. Estimated working costs for the
Ivaili ground are lid. per yard, but whether
that embraces all the items is not clear.
* * * *
Pliin Soon has issued a detailed report of
its troubles. These are mostly due to old-
fashioned and wasteful working, including
the duplication of power units, inefficient
concentration plant., and the removal of over-
burden by hand labor. The scattered power
units will be concentrated into a central
system, electricity taking the place of the
present scattered and mixed units. The
necessary machinery is on the mine, and will
be duplicated when the necessity arises. A
power shovel will deal with ihe overburden,
and jigs and classifiers will be installed. A
pilot plant with a yardage equal to tin-
present system is to be installed at once, and
the complete modernisation of the plant will
be carried out after the results of the pilot
have shown wliat is wanted. O. B. Williams,
late of North Mount Farrell, Tasmania, is
the new manager.


Efficiency means
The five wonderful time savers illustrated on this page will ensure increased
office efficiency. Everyone is a profit maker. Ask for a demonstration or free tna .
V" .
m
fecJ
(SSPEh
"**^o
This Monroe Adder-Calculator
is the world’s most popular
calculating machine, because it
does not require a highly-
trained operator and is more
rapid. Models from £65
sterling and decimals combined.
Try it on your own work for a
week—no obligation. It will
amaze you!
r:
WS
M
sans
This Sundstrand Junior Adding-
Listing machine is universally
popular, because it is the
simplest, fastest and most
dependable. It has only 10
keys, and can be operated
rapidly by anyone after a few
minutes’ practice. Prices from
£33. Ten years’ guarantee.
Free trial.
1
m
mm.
v-
SBK*S
M . I
The Kardex Visible Recording system solves the problem of record-keeping for every class of business. One of the
features about the Kardex system is that it not only keeps records of past transactions, but renders a splendid
guiding and directing executives and department managers in regard to future operations. All vital information is
may be seen at a glance. Kardex renders all other systems obsolete. It is a revelation.
many great
service in
signalled—
a
The Remington Noiseless
Typewriter is the last word in
typewriters. It eliminates the nerve-
racking clatter of other machines, and
makes for much greater office efficiency. Where
office work is done quietly, it is done better.
The Remington Noiseless does everything that
any other machine can do—except make a
noise.
fr. >
The “Remington Rapid Rotary” Duplicator is
the simplest to operate. Perfect reproductions
from one original can be run off in a few
minutes in typewriting, handwriting, draw-
ings, sketches, etc. The machine auto-
matically inks, paper feeds and counts.
Ask for demonstration. Terms
arranged.
For Demonstration of any of the above machines, ring:
Chartres Ltd.
Chartres Ltd., Sydney.
(Late Stott & Hoare & Chartres, Ltd.)
Chartres Pty., Ltd., Melbourne,
Chartres Ltd., Adelaide.
/
/
/ *
/ NAME.
/ADDRESS.
/ 8.28/47’27,
PLEASE
SEND
FULL
PARTICULARS
OF


Usher’s Hotel Ltd
Castlereagh Street, Sydney.
A hrst-class new and up-to-date
modern hotel.
illuming hot and cold water in all b :d-
-rooms and many have Bath de Luxe.
Automatic bedside telephones.
English and Trench Cuisine.
New Marble Bar, spacious and airy.
For perfection of service, comfort
ntid cleanliness, Usher’s Ltd. is un-
equalled.
Inclusive Terms, apply
MANAGER.
STERLING SILVER
AFTERNOON TEASPOON
&m
'W
/
w
y
LASTING
SOUVENIR
of the visit of H.R..H.
THE DUKE OF YORK
and of the opening of
Federal Parliament House,
CANBERRA.
The bust of the Duke forms the handle of
the spoon. “Canberra, 1927,” is engraved
on the stem, and a reproduction of House
of Parliament, in relief, is in the bowl.
The length of the spoon is 4J inches.
Price 12/6 each.
FAIRFAX & ROBERTS, LTD.,
The Oldest Jewellery House in Sydney,
23 and 25 HUNTER, STREET.
PLAIN FTOURES. - CASH ONLY.
BIRKMYRE'S CLOTH
Regd. Trade-mark.
The best waterproof for motor-car
hoods, tarpaulins, horse and cow
rugs, etc. Canvas of all kinds, cot-
ton ducks and hessians, seaming,
bagging and shop twine.
Fishing nets and yarn. Samples
and prices on application.
-GOOROCIKSITft
379 Kent Street, Sydney.
Charlotte Street, Brisbane, Q.
460 Flinders Street, Melbourne, 1 i c>
Missing Friends.
U
N CLAIMED PROPERTY.
STANLEY PULLIN.
Stanley Pullin, formerly of Aponga, "
Zealand, settler, or any person knowing •
whereabouts, is requested to commiime.
with the Public Trustee, A'iiangarei, At*
Zealand.
PERSONAL
ITEMS
GLOBE
MEAT EXTRACT
GLOBE BRAND
Some May birthdays:—
C. H. Book (Vic. Crown Prosecutor), 32, and
Archdeacon Beresford, of Launceston, 76, on Ist;
Senator Cox, 64, Brig.-Gen. G. M. Macarthur-Onslow,
52, and Chas. Miscamble (Speck’s Railway Commis-
sioner), 65, on 2nd; Justice Rich (High Court),
64 ; Prof. Laby (Melb.) ; Colin C. Stephen (Syd.),
55, on 3rd ; Dave Gordon, M.L.C. (S. Aus.), 62,
Prof. McKellar Stewart (Adel.), 49, on 4th; T. R.
Bavin (N.S.W.), 53, and Edgar R. Waite (S. Aus.
Museum), 61, on sth; G. M. Prendergast, M.L.A.
(lie..), 73. on 6th; Alfred Langler (West Austra-
lian), 61 ; Colonel Annand (Town Clerk of Brisbane),
55, Federal Minister Pratten, 62, and J. T. Heather -
shaw (Federal Treasury), 52, on 7th; Prof. A. J. Per-
-1 ins (Director of Agric., S. Aus.), 56, on 11th; Major-
General Sellheim (Norfolk Island), 61, and Canon
Hughes (Melb.), 67, on 12th; Bishop James (St.
Arnaud), 50, and F. A. Coghlan (N.S.W. Auditor-
Gen.), 68. on 13th; N.S.W. Senator Colonel Abbott,
58, and Prof. Stable (Q.), 44, on 14th; Chief-Justice
Blair (Q.), 56, Colonel Graham Dixon, C.B.E. (().),
54, Colonel Semmens (Repatriation Commission), 59,
on 16tli; Bishop Langley (late of Bendigo), 91, W.
Cattanach (Vic. Water Supply Commission), 64,
poet Leon Gellert, 35, and Chas. A. Munt (Under-
Sec. for Works, W.A.), 65, on 17th; Percy R. Cole
(Sydney Teachers’ Coll.), 48, on 18th; Dame Nellie
Melba, Judge Scholcs (N.S.W.), 69, and author W. M.
E. A. DRAKE-BROCKMAN, who was sworn
in last week as a Judge of the Common-
wealth Arbitration Court.
Fleming (formerly M.H.R.), 63, on 19th: P.M.-G. Gib-
son, 58, and F. J. Rae (director of Mel It. Botanic
Gardens), 44, on 20th; W. R. Bayly (Prince Alfred
Coll., Adel.), 60, M. S. Sharman (Melb. Uni. High
School), 51, on 21st; Justice Gordon (N.S.W.), 69,
on 22nd; Justice Angas Parsons (S. Aus.), 55,
Judge ; Beeby (Federal Arbitration Court, 68, on
23rd; W. J. Colebateh (S. Aus. Irrigation Commis-
sioner), 50, and Ivor MacGillivray (formerly M.P.
for Port Adelaide), 87, on 24th; Jas. R. Fowler,
M.A. (Adel.), 62, on 25tli; Archgaiters Riley
(Perth), 73 on 26th; Dr. Fred Bird (Melb.).
69, ex-N.S.V Treasurer Arthur Cocks, 65, ex-Fed-
ornl S. Aus. Senator Charleston, 79, Knight Fred
W airy (Sydney), 67, and Colonel J. W. Castine (S.
Aus.), 81, on 27th; ex-Chief Justice Cullen, 72, Judge
Backhouse, 76, Prof. Scott Fletcher (Q.), 69, Fred
T. Robertson (Adel. Advertiser), 69, and Colonel D.
Murray McWhae (Perth), 46, on 28th; G. Gordon
MeCrae (Hugh’s dad), 94, and Dr. W. G. Armstrong
(Syd.), 67, on 29th; Prof. Berry (Melb.), 60, and
Prof. Steele (Q.), 57, on 30th; Q’land Senator Foil,
37, on 31st.
The Yorks were welcomed at St. Kihla
by a party that included three very old Par-
liamentary hands. One of them was H. R.
* Williams, Vic.’s senior Executive Councillor,
who was Minister for Mines under Graham
Berry in 1880. He was in the Assembly in
the stormy ’seventies, and in calmer times
was Railway Minister under Turner for five
years. He is well over 80. Another octo-
genarian Executive Councillor in Jimmy
McColl, and Downward, the new Minister
of Lands, who was 80 on April 1, also
nodded to Albert and Betty.
Ernest Turnbull, who leads Victoria’s
returned men, has been a busy organiser
lately. As chair-
man of the inter-
state conference of
dissatisfied soldier-
settlers the sturdy
fighter here pictured
has been, engaged in
translating the out-
spoken resolutions
of the plain men of
the bush into lan-
guage more suited
to the tender ears
of Cabinet. Minis-
ters. In between, he
collected for the
25th the biggest
roll-up of Anzacs
in the history of
the State; also, he
vv aged successful
war on the official
dug-outs for proper
recognition of Mon-
ash’s importance.
Turnbull’s latest
effort was to try to
arrange a date be-
tween the soldiers
■nd the Duke: but
for once the barbed-
wire entanglements
in front of his ob-
jective were too
plentiful.
E. TERN BULL,
Vic. State President
of the R.S.L.
General Monash stood up to G.-G. Stone-
haven when his Ex. wanted to revise the
arrangements for the salute business at Parlia-
ment House, Melbourne, on Anzac Day. P»oiled
down, Monash’s reply was that when he was
in command of the Australian forces he
never deviated from plans after he had
worked them out, and he thought the rule
good enough to follow “on this side.” Mon-
ash won.
Kurnell, where Captain Cook landed, was
rediscovered a decade ago by a group of
Sydneyites looking for open spaces to live
in. There are no roads through the bush
which separates it from Cronulla, and the
passage across Botany Bay, which is the only
connection with the city, has been associated
with a number of tragedies. The latest of
these, on Easter Monday, brought death to
Peter Marshall, a notable Laborite of the
early days, and ten others. Peter was
secretary of the Coachmakers’ Union and
president of the Labor Council at the time
of the 1908 coal strike. Ernie Farrar, the
M.L.C. now prominent in Nationalist coun-
cils. was vice-president under him, and Jack
Cochrane (subsequently an M.L.A. —he died
last year) secretary.
Captain Wilkins’s account of his tramp
back to his headquarters, after the aeroplane
on which he set out gave up planing, shows
a lack of dramatic appreciation. In such
cases the correct thing, endorsed by a long
line of Arctic explorers, is for the adven-
turers to eat up tlieir transport, usually
dogs, and then boil their boots for soup.
After that they die off one by one just in
time for the frozen remains to be discovered
by a relief party. The 70-miles’ tramp of
Wilkins and his partner took 17 days. When
they reached Beechey Point Wilkins re-
marked that he had sighted several seals in
open water and did not kill them, because
lie and his companion had all the food they
needed. The pair finished “sunburnt and
tired.” Sounds no more exciting than a
ramble with Matilda through the Riverina.
Darwin is getting into line. At next elec-
tion for the Town Council a woman can-
didate will stand. She is Jessie Sinclair Litch-
field. a valued contributor to The Bulletin
for. 20 years, and the mother of seven healthy
and happy young Territorians. She is one
of those who believe the North is a white-
man’s country, and has backed her belief by
living there for close on 20 years. The
climate certainly hasn’t sapped Mrs. Litch-
field’s energy and enthusiasm.
Robert Muirhead Collins, Secretary for
Defence for both Vic. and the Common-
wealth, and later Secretary to the High
Commissioner in London, passed out while
on a visit to N’York. When he became Sec.
for Defence in Melbourne, about 38 years
ago, he was a naval commander. The
dapper little civil servant, though he flitted in
and out of Melbourne Club, was not above
carrying into town in his attache-case an
old suit of clothes or a pair of boots for
some old shipmate down on his luck. He
had a warm corner in his heart and more
gentle words than chiding remarks for an
erring naval man. If Uncle Sam has given
Collins a naval funeral, he deserved it;.
The old town of Cobbitty (N.S.W.) has had
a celebration to mark the hundredth milestone!
since Thomas Hassall was appointed to be
Anglican vicar of the Cowpastures. The
gathering was held at Hassall’s old home.
Denbigh, which has been occupied for the
last half century by the Macintoshes, whose
name is well known in country show-rings ;
and Marsdens, Oxleys. Bettses, Hopes. Camp-
bells and other early-Australian families
were represented, beside Hassalls. Arch-
deacon Oakes, late of Kelso (N.S.W.), a
grand-nephew of Hassall. was there. Cob-
bitty's present vicar- is Allan Pain, son of
(he late Bishop of Oippsland (Vic.), who
himself succeeded Hassall in 1837.
Alexander McKinley, proprietor and editor
of Melbourne Punch before he sold out
years ago, was a member- of Vic. Assem-
bly and a Malvern municipal magnate, but
his best, work was done as chairman of
children’s courts. He believed that there
was good in every lad if he were given a
chance, and harsh measures were with him
the very last resource. His dream, not
realised when death came, was the estab-
lishment of a model farm for boys. McKin-
ley was out of his element in Parliament,
and one term 30 years ago was enough for
him. go taciturn was he in the House
that constituents remonstrated. Twice he
arranged to receive deputations from pro-
testing electors, but they must have thought
"What’s the use?” as they failed to appear.
On a visit to Australia is Canon Barry-
Doyle, a relative of the man who invented
Sherlock Holmes. A Wexford native, the
Canon was ordained at Waterford, and has
been chaplain to the British forces in the
Black Sea. He is 49, and has just completed
a lecturing tour in America on behalf of
folk in Asia Minor oppressed by the Turk.
He found at least one relative awaiting
him in Sydney—Sister Mary Ignatius of the
Convent of Mercy. She is a convert to Rome,
as was her father, who crossed over from
an English vicarage a quarter of a century
ago; he later took up journalism in
N. S. Wales. There is ink in the blood of
the Doyles, and the Canon has written
several books.
Pat Stephens, who died at Ipswich (Q.)
the other'day, had lived there, in one house,
for 64. years. He helped to make the first
road oyer Limestone Hill to Brisbane, and
when the first sod of the railway-line between
Ipswich and Grandchester was turned in
1864, Pat was on hand with pick and shovel.
Died at Sydney the other day, William
Johnstone Newbigin, one of the most not-
able of Australian- engineers. He came to
this country 30 years ago, sent out by the
Parsons firm, of Newcastle-on-Tyne, to look
after their Australian interests, and he
stayed on to use his exceptional technical
skill and administrative ability on behalf
of various engineering firms in this con-
tinent. He was a past-president of the
Institute of Engineers and at the time of
Ins death was one of the three members of
the Commonwealth Scientific and Industrial
Research Council. A brilliant career ended
at 53.
Annoyed by the persistent query of a
Laborite at one of his meetings as to the
number of times the Allan Government had
been defeated in Vic. Assembly, Dave Oman
paused, affected to consult notes in his hands,
and replied ‘Exactly the same number of
times as the Ramsay Macdonald Labor
Government was defeated in the House of
Commons. ’ He was left alone then by the
interjector. Making too sure of victory,
Oman failed to organise properly, and lost
the Hampden seat to Laborite Arthur
Hughes.
The passion for unadulterated learning
burns bright in the breast of George Ander-
son, of Melbourne, who. despite the fact
that he matriculated in 1907, has not yet
left the University examiners alone, notwith-
standing that already he can write himself
Master of Arts and Laws and Bachelor of
Commerce. A £2OO scholarship for economic
research fell his way, too. But what’s the
use? He’s a master printer by trade and his
hobby is astronomy.
Almost the last of the old-time sporting
soggarth aroons in Australia took his
chance m the Final Handicap the O tW
day in the Auburn (Sydney) Hospital Pete!
Paul Power, it was; he was born in Water
ford and educated at All Hallows eomiiw
to Australia nearly 40 years ago The
padre had a taste for horses, dogs and
cattle, and there were few better judges of
them around. A regular rider or driver of
trotters at country show’s, he more often
than not scored off the professionals.
Thomas Haigh, who is about to take over
the musical direction of services at St
Andrew's Cathedral, Sydney, the job in whwi
Frederick Mewton died, comes from a 10-
year term as an examiner at the Royal
College of Music, and has been composing
for the organ, pianoforte and voice for
years. His latest work was a book on organ
pedal play.
“Sim : Tile late George Henry Bond
(B. 21/4/’27) narrowly missed being a
pioneer Australian. In the ’sixties be de-
< ided that Condon was too ciwded, and felt
the lure of Australian gold. There was also
the pull of the U.S.A., where the Union
army was entering upon its last victorious
phase, and America won. He arrived in
Louisville, Kentucky, as the hands at. the
head of returning troops were playing "When
Johnny Comes Marching Home”; and there
his numerous family, including George A.
and Harry, the Australian representatives
of the clan, were born. He was a powerful
man, and though in his ninetieth year was
accustomed to diet to keep his weight down.
The young fellow who couldn't work 15 hours
a day at a pinch he regarded as a cripple.
Coming to Australia a few years ago, tlx;
old man watched the boys put up a light
for Australian cotton, which, if finally suc-
cessful, will write ‘‘Bond” large in the
industrial history of this country.
One of the first users of pyro in Sydney
was Charles Collins, who stopped dabbling
in it for good the other day. He flourished
in tin-type, and there was a time when no
Well-regulated family in the Harbor City
lacked an album filled with his works. He
set up his studio near the G.P.0., and his
sitters’ heads were held in an iron prong
while the slow-acting ferro-type of Daguerre
recorded the whiskers and peg-top trousers
of pa, the curls and crinoline of ma and
the little frilled panties of young Evangeline.
Collins “took” most of the notable men and
buildings of half a century ago, and intro-
duced the “finished-while-you-wait” idea still
in use on the beaches.
G. J. ANDERSON, Minister in charge of
the new Government Publicity Depart-
ment of Mooriland.
Old Jolm Berghofer waits at Mount Vic-
toria with hope in his breast that an in-
justice done to him will be rectified, and that
his name will again be fastened to what
is now known as the Victoria Pass. Although
Berghofer made the road to the pass, whica
provides the best access to Mount Victoria,
and had sons fighting with the A.1.F., the
German name was too much for the loyal-
ists of the early war period. Berghofer.
now 88 years old, has not seen Germany for
over 70 years, and reckons himself as good
an Australian as his sons and grandchildren.
He is known as “the father of Mount \ ic-
toria” ; and the congratulations the Duke and
Duchess offered him on the road over which
they travelled have given a push to the agita-
tion to right the old wrong.
ANCIENT LIBERTY.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“Members of Parliament used to be expected to
have minds of their own, but now this is regarded
in many quarters as a distinct handicap. Parties
now count for more and men for less.’' —IF. .)/.
Hughes, in Brisbane Daii,y Mail.
Said the old dog to the young pup,
“The good old days are dead.
When first. J found my tongue, pup,
We were not blindly led ;
No party packs could hold us;
In common mastery,
No kennel e’er controlled us;
Hans whip and leash were we.
Mach Towser was a bold dog.”
Thus sadly mused the old dog.
Said the old dog to the young pup,
“Ilow sadly changed your ways!
The sires from whom you sprung, pup,
Would view you with amaze;
ion do your tricksy stunting
In drilled and daunted troupes;
Where we went tree a-hunting.
You jump through little hoops.
You poor do-as-you’re told dogs,
We pity you, we old dogs."
T'pspake the younger Hover:
"Our souls your words have thrilled;
Alas! those times are over.
When howsoe’er you willed
You did. you and yoiir brothers.”
The old dog’s snarl came pal :
“I led the pack! The others
Followed—/ saw to that!
I mourn, an unconsoled dog
For those days,” growled the old dog.
QUEENSLAND.
HASEN.


lhese facts—
may prevent you from purchasing a motor
car of obsolete design
The Whippet has the specifications of a large car—-modified to meet
the requirements of buyers who want style and performance at a
reasonable cost. Compare these and other facts about the
Whippet before buying any low priced car.
Special Whippet Features
Smart Bodies— sturdily built —beautifully finished —more interior space than
most light cars.
4-Wheel Brakes —fully enclosed —mechanically controlled.
55 miles an hour and more —quick acceleration —wonderful top gear per-
formance.
Super-efficient engine, rated at 15.9 H. P., but developing 31 H. P. Smooth,
quiet flow of power—low tax rate.
30 miles per imperial gallon of petrol—low gravity centre —greater driving
safety—ample clearance.
Turns in 34 foot circle —only 14 feet curb space for parking.
Irreversible type of steering —no back lash —adjustable steering wheel position.
Large Balloon Tyres —water pump—full oil pump system.
Utmost quality —built to last for years.
An up-to-date design means efficiency—Smaller motoring bills —Higher resale
value —All around satisfaction.
We are proud of the Whippet and will be delighted to demonstrate it.
'V k OVERLAND
m\
i
t
-Ml
TOW®
m
/
&i
Overland Sydney, Ltd., 148-150 Castlereagh Street, SYDNEY.
Overland Victoria Pty., Ltd., 117-121 Lonsdale Street, MELBOURNE.
Overland South Australia, Ltd., 236-238 Victoria Square, ADELAIDE.
E. G. Eager & Son, Ltd., Breakfast Creek Road, Newstead, BRISBANE.
H. C. Heathorn & Co., Ltd., HOBART and LAUNCESTON.
Adams Motors, Ltd., 442-446 Murray Street, PERTH.
SEE YOUR LOCAL DEALER.
WILLYS - OVERLAND « FINE • MOTOR « CARS


CIK Equitable Cife
flssce.
64
F 10^5
S?m
of
Australasia Ctd.
Head Office:
Parbary House, Eagle Street, Brisbane
Branches:
N.S.W.: VICTORIA:
84 Pitt St.. Sydney. 360 Collins St., Melb
Transacts Probate, TAfe Endowment , Com-
bined Benefits (All Sickness ) Assurance.
(Vacancies for Producers with good records .)
PREDK. LEVY, Mg. Director.
ft
EDGEWORTH
EXTRA HICH GRADE >
SMOKING
TOBACCO
1
4
Australian Agents: R. TOWNS & CO., SYDNEY.
HERE’S the HAT!
YOU WANT.
si
-0,
f f
Only
£2/10/-
Post
Free
anywhere.
Only
£2/10/-
Post
Free
anywhere.
THE TOM MIX is a dinkum cowboy hat with
Tin. crown and plaited band, curl all round the
wide brim- they’re selling everywhere, bend
your cash to-day to
JOHN BRUSH,
Riding Outfitter,
371 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY, N.S.W.
Write for Catalogue of Genuine Wieneke_Saddk^
ABORIGINALITIES
MADE IN AUSTRALIA
BARNES LINSEED OIL
“Tamornie”: We were swapping yarns
about quick growth, and I mentioned having
been in Java and seeing there grass which
grew three inches in a night. Bill snorted
liis contempt. “That’s nothin’,” he said.
“A cocky I worked for in South Gippsland
had dozens of staall carts made t’ put under
the pumpkins t’ prevent them bein’ worn
out as the vines dragged them along the
ground. We had t’ cut the maize with axes
and snig it t’ the cutter with a horse. They
had a block and tackle t’ lift it inter the
feedin’-box. They left some f’ seed, and y’
couldn’t sleep at night fer the noise of the
bustin’ grains—like crackers goin’ off, it
was. The parrots weren’t game t’ go near
the crop. They useter get blown over ev’ry
time they nipped a grain. Then there was
the spuds. They grew so big that they
pushed up outer the ground and we had t’
NO DANGER OF DROWNING.
DRIVER : “Why did you tell me it wasn’t deep, you black cow?”
J ACKY: “It awright. Boss. Dribe on—it not ober your ’cad.”
cart loads o’ soil from the crick bank t’ cover
them with. Yous should have seen the
beans; they was” Bill’s reminiscences
were drowned by the heart-broken sobs of
old-man Muleahey, till then the champion
liar in the district.
* * * *
“Herodot”: The recovery by natives who
have had their kidney-fat removed (B.
31/3/’27) is astonishing both in speed and
completeness. In N.T. I once saw a young
abo. who had had practically every scrap
of his renal fat removed. Two other natives
had held him down while a third had made a
fearful gash in the victim’s side with a hoop-
iron knife. The operator had then inserted
liis hand. Pushing the intestines and other
organs to one side, he dragged out the fat
layer and cut it off. The victim walked
nearly a mile to the hut of a white man,
where he collapsed. The -wound, covered
with dirt and grit, was washed and sewn
up roughly with ordinary thread. Natives
then applied a large poultice of leaves and
mud. iu less than six weeks he had re-
covered.
* * * *
“Tiffy”: Few visitors to North Westralia
get a chance of seeing Berengarra Creek.
Situated between Condon and Wollal, it is
frequented only by the trading schooners and
luggers engaged in the pearling industry, for
which it often provides a valuable retreat
from the violence of the “cock-eyes.” The
chief asset of the creek is its spring of fresh
water. Situated in the mangroves about a
hundred yards from the main channel, the
spring, which wells up into a submerged
barrel, is completely covered by salt water at
high tide, but it is possible, by baling the
brine out of the barrel, to obtain from it a
supply of fresh water as soon as the tide
recedes. The transfer of the liquid to the
luggers is made by means of canvas bags
carried on the shoulders of the colored crews.
Each boy hoists a bag containing three or
four gallons, and sets off down the track
across the mangrove mud at a jog trot. The
bags are by no means leakproof, and the
track soon becomes so wet and treacherous
that a white man has great difficulty in keep-
ing upright on it, though this does not affect
the colored seamen, who are as surefooted as
cats.
* * * *
“J.C.”: How is this for a steady tramp?
On a recent Sunday a man at Hill End
( N.S.W.) received word that his wife was
ill in Sydney and he at once set out for the
rail at Bathurst. He travelled by the old
road, now called the bridle track, and did
the distance of 46 miles in lOhr. 40min. His
swag weighed 621 b., but he carried no water-
bag, preferring to rely on the river, which
keeps in touch with the road for most of
the distance.
* * * *
“Up North” : Scattered over the N.T. are
regular mines where for centuries the binglii
with his stone-age tools has dug out ochres
and coloring clays. They are fairly varied
in color and the flasher of the materials are
eagerly bartered against, the loved pitchuri
by unlucky tribes whose territory does not
contain a mine. Bark- and reed-encased
packets of ochres travel hundreds of miles
by binglii post. The colors are mainly red,
blue, white, brown and yellow. The earths
are painstakingly ground up between stones
and then sieved through plaited reeds; fin-
ally they are graded and sorted, as different
localities possess more or less vivid coloring
matter. The paints are mixed generally in
wood or earthen vessels, with water or
animal, bird or fish oils, as the materials,
custom and experience of the mixer dictate.
Sometimes the coloring base is merely
crushed, sieved and “made.” Occasionally
it is first roasted. Colored kaolins and clays
are often used and sometimes vegetable
resins. Chemical analysis of these might
possibly procure for the white man a base
for valuable dyes. In a few districts blue
copper ore and various shades of ironstone
are ground up. Other tribes, a little higher
in evolution, extract color-stains from roots
and plants. To add variety to the paint-
coloring, the dandies bedeck themselves with
tufts and beautifully-made balls of parrot,
cockatoo and crane feathers. Vividly-stained
grasses and berries and clinking armlets of
shells add to the barbaric effect.
WHERE CARE WAS MOST NECESSARY.
“One of them prescriptions is fur the wife and th’ other fer the Jersey cow.”
“Call hack in an hour, please.”
“For Gawd’s sake don’t make any mistakes in ’em, Mister. She’s the best cow I got.”
“Jesmond” : The flounder has a peculiarity
that counterbalances its cliameleon-like
habits (B. 17/3/’27). It is inquisitive.
When disturbed it will swim away, but only
to return in a few seconds. If you arm
yourself with a home-made spear—a pointed
stick will do—and wade in shallow water
just after sundown you can often get a
flounder, if there are any about. The fish
will dart away from your feet, but. provided
you are used to the game, you will be able
to stick it in a second or two on its return.
Of course, a stingray may get you instead,
but that is all in the game.
* * * *
“D.8.0’C.”: Tramping from Charleville
to Cloncurry through the west of Queensland,
I found flies far and away the worst of the
pests encountered. At Cloncurry they
swarmed in unbelievable millions, and with
both eyes closed and a face blown up like
a rubber tyre I went into the district hos-
pital. Here, though there were many cases
of bunged eyes and sandy blight, neither
gauze for doors and windows nor fly-figliting
devices of any kind were in use, though the
hospital is in other respects highly efficient.
The young doctor out there thinks nothing
of hopning a hundred miles or more into
the bush to bring back a sick stockman in
an aeroplane. Why doesn’t Australia tackle
this fly pest? The money would be well
spent.
* * * *
“Yarri”: Motor-waggons on far-western
tracks have wiped out the jobs of hundreds
of men and closed numerous wayside refresh-
ment houses, but they have also put an end
to the gruelling that animals suffered in dry
times. I have seen teamsters, after travel-
ling their day’s stage, drive tluir beasts back
to the previous camp to drink, then cut scrub
to feed them, and, after sleeping there for
a few hours, return with their hrute slaves
to pull the waggons a few miles further.
Sometimes the trips were prolonged into
bankruptcy. The most protracted known to
me was made by. two horse teams, which
left Nappa Merrie squattage, Koopa Creek,
on September 30. 1899. with 117 bales of
wool for Charleville: They lost 22 horses
on the road, and did not reach their des-
tination till July 24, 1901. It took nearly
two years to do 500 miles. Has any team
ever beaten that?
* * * *
“a.E.Y.” : “Oh, yairs, there’s plenty of liars
—good liars at that,” said Bill, “specially in
The Bulletin.’’ He was plaiting a green
hide thong for my bullock whip whilst alter-
nately chewing nigger twist and ejecting the
juice into the fire of mulga boughs, steering
it with wonderful skill between the damper in
the camp-oven and the stew in the billy.
“But there ain’t no lies as good as the truth,
w’en all’s said an’ done. Take that no-tail
Smithfield I bought orf a ’awker fer a quid,
up the river. There was a dawg. now, if
yer like. I useter count up t’ a thousand
sheep an’ let Stumpy keep tally. Wen a
’undred of ’em ’ad run through a gap in a break
of mulga I’d jist drop me yat an’ ’e would
bark once. Two barks at two ’undred an'
so on. W’en the thousand was through
Stumpy would sit up on his hams an’ bark
ten times. O’ course 1 useter keep a check
on ’im, fer safety, but I never knowed Stumpy
t’ make a mistake. But I lawst ’im in the
end. The missus ’ad read that the best cure
fer red ants was chalk, so she drawed a
chalk line right round the ’ouse. The ants
stopped at once, but fr’m the day the chalk
line was drawed Stump seemed t’ the missus
ter go barmy. I was away at the time,
loadin’ wool fer Cunnamulla. For three
days Stumpy done nothin’ but run up an
down an’ around that chalk line, barkin’ an'
snappin’ an’ fin’ll.v frothin’ at the mouth. So
the missus up an’ put a bullet in ’im. She
thought he’d gone mad an’ would bite the
baby. W’en I come ’ome at the end o’ the
week I found the ants was worse than ever.
Y’see, Stumpy ’ad been keepin’ ’em fr’m
gettin’ through the gaps in the chalk line.”
“Harry J.” : Flitting about the box-bushes
at Pipe Head. Guildford (N.S.W.), is a
jacky winter that gets more than a pass-
ing glance from all who sight him. He is
undoubtedly a “jacky,” stockily built, cheeky:
he sings in the pleasing manner of his kind
and is a keen lover of the chase, but his
color is a creamy white. If either of his
parents had an affair with a canary, that
might account for his whiteness; but this
is not the first case of freak coloring in
birds I have noticed. Is there any explana-
tion of the phenomenon other than that of
a cross ?,
* * * *
“Paul C.”: One of the greatest worries
of the man who has to deal with harness-
horses is the chronic jib. I saw a simple
method successfully applied to a quadruped
that stuck up a loaded cart of vegetables. The
Chow driver had tried every way he knew,
from monosyllabic heathen curses to battering
the beast's ribs with a waddy. A passing
teamster told the heathen to get into the
cart and to “look out,” as he’d soon set the
jib in motion. He drew a tot of -water from
his waterbag, and approached the horse while
the expectant Chow stood up in the middle
of his vegetables, a rein in each hand. The
teamster poured the water into the horses
ear. The animal threw his head to one sid->
and then with a snort and a plunge emptied
the Chow over the tailboard, and two seconds
later was only a cloud of dust in the distance,
leaving a streak of miscellaneous vegetables
to mark his progress.
(Continued on page 27.)
THE BUSH PHILOSOPHER.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“It- doesn’t matter such a lot,
As far as I can see,
The things I have or haven't got,
Or what a man might be.
It’s not a bit of use to grieve
That things are as they are,
As far as I can see,” says Steve—-
“Which maybe isn’t far.
"There’s this, and that, I might have done,
Or else have left alone;
There’s prizes that I might have won
If I had only known.
I might have played a different game,
But still and all,” says he,
“I’d finish up about the same
As far as I can see.
“I might have done things more in style
And socked away some pelf;
A man can kid the mob awhile
Though he can’t kid himself.
I might at times have shown more sense,
And used more energy,
But there’d be little difference
As far as I can see.
“Some things are hung a lot too high,
And some too low to touch;
No use to seek the reason wffiy,
It doesn’t matter much.
What though we fail, or we achieve,
There’s naught to thrill or jar
As far as I can see,” says Steve —
“Which maybe isn’t far.”
w.A.
OSCAR WALTERS.


MUM
m
MS
: V
✓
u
*
a
■ Y
H
■
M
i
-
n
MAKE SURE
of ECONOMICAL TYRE SERVICE
by using
DUNLOP TYRES
No higher grade covers or tubes are
made and none give better results on
Australian roads. For quality, value,
strength and mileage they are unsurpassed.
fit.J)unlop and you’ll be satisfiedl
« * *
Garages stock them.
DUNLOP RUBBER CO. OF AUST. LTD.
All States and N.Z.


\/ou couldhave Saved
\Money on that last Job!
■cfceUict Wav
Wv-n
\
i r-
nS
£
>
m
f)] With Pick and Shovel *1
/
r
r r f
With
s
/ 'UK
$
a?
r,
•A /
u W
6G
d V
TheOut-of-date Methods
Shillings versus Pence
per yard
'THERE are two ways of doing
1 jobs such as trench-digging,
road-making and loading: the old
costly way of employing picks and shovels and
the economical way of using modern machinery.
In King “Tut’s” time, the primitive pick and
shovel was right enough, but the old methods
are as dead as those times are. These are days
of strenuous competition —if you would survive
you must do this class of work the new way—■
the “Barber-Greene” way.
The Barber-Greene Ditcher.
The saving in trench excavation by using a
Barber-Greene Ditcher as compared with hand
labor is approximately 2/- to 3/6 per cubic
yard.
The Barber-Greene Loader
on a certain class of work has done a much
greater output than 40 men shovelling. It will
pay for itself many times over in the saving it
effects, loading Broken Stone, Sand, Gravel,
Scarified Road Materials, Coal, Clay, etc.
Portable Conveyors.
For loading or conveying loose materials from
pits, stock piles, etc., they may be fed by
hand or by bucket loaders.
We manufacture some of these
machines in our own works in
Australia under license to the
Barber-Greene Company.
Send Us Your
Inquiries.
J
rr\
7JU
u>
Pfre
f
5*
WithBarber-Greene Ditcher
x
r r r
c
, t
T
--T'
Y :
' 9
sZZ-
A
Barber-Greene 42 Loader!
r
AA A
a
\
V,
Si '
, The New Wai]
With Barber- Greene UType Conveyor
c H / rite /or
Illustrated'Pamphlets
STANDARDIZE
MATERIAL HANDLING
MACHINES
jfiillparticular/-
awuMCQ ? sviuav wmtiim
SYDNEY. ... 175 Clarence Street.
BRISBANE. . Edward & Mary Streets.
PERTH 33-35 King Street.
MELBOURNE., 521-523 Collins Street.
ADELAIDE., 157 Way mouth Street.
NEWCASTLE.. 17 Bolton Street.


sdf
The Life-blood of Business..
A plentiful supply of well-produced sales
literature is the, life-blood of business. Y\ ith
its assistance sales soar, prolits increase.
Literature of this kind —booklets, blotters,
price lists, folders, etc.—can be produced on
the Multigraph at a speed of 4000 per hour
and an average saving of 45% '
The Multigraph, too, turns out personal type-
written letters in any quantity a sheet at a
time. These demand attention and get
RESULTS.
To learn more of the EARNING and SAY-
ING power of the Multigraph in business
write our nearest address. No obligation is
involved.
Stott & Underwood, Ltd.,
9-11 O’Connell Street, Sydney.
91-93 William Street, Melbourne. 21 Grenfell Street, Adelaide.
MULT/GRAPH
A FEW
MULTIGRAPH
USERS:
Cadbury. Fry, Pas-
call.
Colonial Mutual
Life Assurance.
Reo Motors, Ltd.
National Bank of
Australasia.
Government Savings
Bank, N.S.W.
“C. Coral”: The boys on a trochus-fish-
ing cutter anchored off a reef in the Straits
struck something new in the way of adven-
ture. They had just got everything snug,
and were seated on deck rolling “cigarettes”
of trade tobacco and banana-leaf, when,
simultaneously with a flash of lightning, a
ball of fire alighted on the masthead and
ran down to the deck, causing consternation.
There was a loud crack, and when the crew
had sufficiently recovered to make investiga-
tion, they discovered that the mast was out
of action, split from the truck down. But
the chief concern was that a fish spear on
the end of a bamboo —which the crew had
lashed to the mast a couple of days before
to serve as a flagstaff—had gone west. “We
look round, can’t find that iron nowhere!’
SEEMED LIKE YEA RS.
CITY VISITOR: “You're having a long, dry spell up here,
are you not?”
SWAGGIE : “By cripes I am —I almost forgit wot a pint
of beer tastes like.”
said Taiwan mournfully; ‘‘that lightning
take him go, I t’ink, an’ all same make
big fool of We. Close up we finish, too; but
good t’ing some man he don’t carry that
iron for spear fish when that lightning come,
or might be jigger up altogether!”
“Emel”: “The Heart of Thunder Moun-
tain,” an American thriller, is recalled
by “Up Top’s” bull-fight (B. 3/3/’27). In
it occurs an exciting combat on a great
cattle ranch. It was, however, the ending
that made it memorable to me. The win-
ning bull, “a huge polled Angus,” gored his
opponent to death.
“Black Tracker”: Business brought me
to Tantanoola (S.A.),
the home of the “tiger,’
and the bright moonlight
tempted me to take my
dog for a run on the
honeysuckle flats adjoin-
ing the town. We had
not gone far when he
treed an enormous native-
cat. The honeysuckle up
which it sought shelter
had a leaning trunk, mak-
ing climbing easy. Think-
ing it would jump at my
approach, I went after it.
When about half-way up
I got the scare of my life,
for, instead of jumping, it
arched its back, opened
its claws, and with eyes
g lari n g like fireballs
charged. I can only
remember making a des-
perate grab at a twig,
and with it beating a
rapid tattoo in front of
my face as I clung to
the limb. The pat-pat on
the woo d suddenly
changed to a dull thud,
and I saw the cat within
a foot of my face draw-
ing itself as if electro-
cuted and rollinc off the
limb with stiffened limbs
into the mouth of the
waiting dog. When I re-
covered from the shock,
I looked at the twig that
had saved my life. It
was no thicker than my
finger, and quite brittle.
“Pfella” : My experience does not support
“X.O.D.'s” idea (B. 3/3/'27). that noise
deadens the sense of smell. During an hour s.
fierce thunderstorm at Ivelmscott (W.A.) a
constant rumble of heavy thunder, inter-
spersed with deafening claps, nearly shook the
scattered town off its feet. A farmer and his
wife stood out in the open watching the
lightning. Immediately after one ear-splitting
crash the man shouted in the woman’s ear,
“What did it hit?” She pulled down his head
and shrilled, “It struck our celery patch;
I can smell the-crushed celery.” An examina-
tion by hurricane-lamp later on proved the
statement to be a fact. A spade left lying
in the patch was splintered to shreds, and
the celery looked as if all the cats in the
world had mauled it over.
“Tamornie”: It’s good
news that a commission is
to investigate the _ “walk-
about disease,” which has
for many years attacked
horses in North Australia.
Known variously as “walk-
about,” Kimberley or Birds-
ville disease, it lias puzzled
us all. When first affected,
the horse becomes restless
and refuses to eat. As the
disease progresses, the ani-
mal becomes emaciated and
walks about day and night,
and is apparently unable
to avoid obstacles which may
lay in its path. I have seen
affected animals scramble
through fallen trees, over
rocky outcrops and through
lagoons where a normal
horse would not attempt to
travel. Death occurs very
soon after the horse is too
weak to walk, but in the
coastal belt of the N.T.
many horses arc drowned
before that stage is reached.
I have been present at many
post-mortems, and in every
case the large intestine was
found to be a seething mass
of reddish thread-worms.
This worm, or one very simi-
lar to it. is found in the
flesh and entrails of the
northern catfish, so there
may be some connection be-
tween the water-supply and
the disease. There is no
record of any treatment
having been successful.
“W.W.”: The Tassie native tiger is one of
the shyest of our Australian fauna: he lives
in the dense scrub of the highlands.and sel-
dom comes below the winter snowline. He
hunts in a pack, as a rule, though individually
at times. Tigers are fond of native game, and
like to kill tlicir food each night. They seldom
retrace their steps to feed on yesterday’s
prey. I have tracked them for 17 miles
through the mountains, even the flooded
Shannon River failing to turn them from
their course. They are a great menace to the
sheepbreeder; but owing to the Tasmanian
Government offering a reward, supplemented
by the squatters, for their destruction, they
are now almost extinct.
THE EN FIREMAN GETS A NEW JOR.
“Larrapinta” : Those bees “Kirk observed
(B. 10/3/’27) were gathering thin liquid
gum from the silver wattle-leaves. In autumn
the bees prepare for the winter by plastering
up all cracks and crevices in their hives with
' propolis, a substance composed of gum
gathered from trees mixed with wax. A care-
ful beekeeper always narrows down the en-
trances to his hives when the winter sets in,
and I have noticed that wild swarms in trees
often do the same by nearly closing up the
entrance with propolis, which they chew
away in the spring.
* *
“Kooragai”: In stating that both kinds
of edible birds’-ncsts are made from the saliva
of the builders (B. 31/3/ - 27), “Tongio-West
is mistaken. The edible nest, which is the
property of a swallow-like bird, known as
the salangane, is made of a species of algae,
gathered by tli e
bird, and is a very
delic a t e, semi-
transparent, gela-
tinous substance.
The birds take 30
days to build the
nest, and generally
have to construct
three each season,
the first two being
stolen as soon as
they are finished.
The third is taken
only after the birds
have reared their
young. In making
the soup, the nests
are well washed in
cold water, and
boiled for eight
hours, then mixed
with chicken broth,
seasoned and
boiled for another
quarter of an hour.
Another way of using l them is to pvu them
in a pot with a fat duck
“Lebroy”: I have scon taking eggs
in the manner described by “Gooni” (B.
17/3/’27), and I have also seen them lock-
ing tails, but for intelligence and co-opera-
tion these feats cannot touch a performance
I witnessed one hot night when sleeping
out on a farm at Ballan (Vic.)- A mob ol
about 20 rats silently crept up to a tree
on which chickens were roosting, and they
all, with one exception, formed a circle
under the tree by each taking the tail ot
another rat in its mouth. They then raced
swiftly round and round, while the un-
attached rat climbed the tree, knocked every
chicken off its perch into the midst
of the living circle, and, climbing down
again, killed the prisoners at his leisure.
“Bow” : One day this summer I went to
look over a cultivator that had been left
out on the edge of the fallow, and, pulling
about on the levers, slightly raised the tines
that had their points sunk in the earth. A
gasp of pleasure from my little boy and his
instinctive forward movement drew me to
his side. Snug under the iron shelter of a
tine lay an infant hare, the size of a small
fist, fast asleep. I restrained the youngster
from taking it up, and for a minute or two
we watched it as it slept; then its eyes
opened, and it looked out at us unafraid,
and presently slept again. Quietly letting
down its curious shelter, we left it un-
disturbed to await the return of its mother.
How any of these defenceless creatures
escape tile dog and the fox is difficult to
conceive, but what a tight little place this
one's mother had found for her baby!
“Colorado”: Can any member of the
Council explain the following? On putting
my small sons to bed, I was startled,
on turning down the rug and blankets,
to see a Hash of light run the full length
of the rug fringe. The nippers cried out
and jumped off the bed, and I had difficulty
in persuading them that it, was not on fire.
On several nights since we have bad a crackle
and display of fireworks on crumpling the rug
or blankets quickly. The bed is on an open
verandah facing north ; the sun beats on it
for several hours a day. The rug is an old
Mossgiel and the blankets are not new.
w. * -X- *
“Ailnros": A solution of the cicada phe-
nomenon (‘Till to,’ B. >ll/3/ -17), which
would account for a large number in different
trees starting their chorus at the same
moment probably lies in the difference in sen-
sitiveness between the human ear and that
of the insect. It is likely that when one
cicada starts its hullabaloo the vibrations are
so rapid as to be inaudible to the human ear,
whereas they arc plainly heard or sensed by
the other cicadas, who then crank themselves
up, with the result that when the vibra-
tions slow down they hit the human ear
simultaneously. But I think if “Euto” lis-
tens carefully he will sometimes detect just
one cicada a fraction of a second ahead of
the others. That would be the independent
chap that started the racket and didn't wait
for his pals to tune in before slowing down.
* * * *
“Bill R.”: Municipal authorities would do
well to consider tlie native “boobialla” when
seeking shade trees for the streets and
avenues of their suburbs. Plantlets may be
obtained in abundance from any South Coast
(N.S.W.) scrub. They are exceedingly
hardy, flourish in almost any soil, and grow
to maturity in seven years. Every tree has
a similar rounded form, is well foliaged, and
in springtime is resplendent in a wealth
of white and pink starred blossoms. Unlike
the foreign trees now generally grown, boobi-
allas never reach such a height that their
branches interfere with overhead electric
wires.
* * * *
“W.L.W.”: You can never tell what is
hidden behind a nicely-painted- wooden ceil-
ing. The Commonwealth Bank authorities
recently pulled down some old shops in the
main street of Gympie (QA to make room
FATHER FETES OFF THE HANDLE.
“Egbert, if you have no consideration for my feelings you might at
least 'choose your language before the children.”
for a modern structure. The rafters, which
were cut about (10 years ago, were of gum,
box, bloodwood, ironbark, hoop-pine and flin-
dersia saplings two or three inches thick and
all unbarked. The flindersia had proved a
feast for the borer, but all the other woods
were as sound as on the day they were cut.
* * * *
“Encsem”: An old-man kangaroo in the
Macleay district (N.S.W.) a few weeks ago
put up a desperate fight for life. Pursued
by three mounted men, the thumper was
cornered near a waterhole. It turned on
the leading rider, knocked him from his
horse and inflicted a nasty wound in the
chest of the gee-gee. Then it attacked the
fallen man, but his mates drove the beast
away and it took refuge in the waterhole.
One of the dogs, coming too close, was seized
and held under water until the men, attack-
ing with their whips, forced the ’roo to
release it. For half an hour the big fellow
was kept at bay, but in the end he managed
to elude his tormentors and escaped into
the bush.
THE DRIFTER’S WIFE.
[FOR THE BULLETIN. ]
My man’s been out of work for weeks,
Three months it is to-morrow.
There’s not a penny in the house,
I hate to try to borrow.
I'm losin’ interest in my clothes,
My skirts are long and trailin’;
The children have no Sunday things,
An’ baby's health is failin’.
Our home is mean an’ squalid like,
file walls are mostly baggin’;
They’re always leakin’ when it rains
An’ bulgin' out an’ saggin’.
The earthen floor has holes an’ bills
That badly need repairin’,
I've covered it with empty bags
But they’re for ever fearin’.
I've lined the walls with fashion-plates
An’ other readin’ matter,
But after we’ve had wind an’ rain,
They’re hangin’ all a-tatter.
An' where the walls reach to the ground,
The ragged ends arc swoopin'.
And when the wind blows in the night
They flap where we are sleepin’.
For years an’ years it’s been tlu* same,
Just settled down, then shiftin'.
Him gettin’ jobs an’ gettin’ sacked,
An' pitcliin’ camps and driftin'.
An’ wcarin’ rags an’ wasliin’ rags
That shame me when they're dryin’,
An’ makeshift beds an' makeshift, meals,
An’ hungry children cryin’.
I’ve borrowed food an' worked for food
Till every bone was achin’,
Then knelt an’ prayed for Heaven’s help
To keep my heart from breakin’.
They say some fall beneath a cross,
Or other loads they’re bearin’,
I worry for the children’s sakes
Lest I should drop—despairin’.
At times when frownin’ shopmen call
To see why we're not payin',
I feel ashamed an’ flustered-like,
An’ don’t know what I’m sayin’.
But when my man is in a job
A ray of hope is shinin’,
An’ on the clouds there seems to be
A kinder silver linin’.
N.s.w.
JIM GRAUAME.


WHEN ;N BRITAIN
You will wish to see
CAMBRIDGE : : YORK
HARROGATE, EDINBURGH
and other
Beautiful Cathedral Cities.
These are on the
London 8 North-Eastern Railway
The track of the “Plying Scotsman.”
SHORTEST AND QUICKEST
between
LONDON AND SCOTLAND.
Illustrated Booklets describing Resorts on
the L.N.E.R. will be gladly supplied on
application to Messrs. BURNS, PHILP & CO.,
LTD., 10 Bridge Street, Sydney, and Branches ;
or in London at the L.N.E.R. West End
Offices, 71 Regent Street, and 59 Piccadilly,
W.l.
Tour England and Scotland
by L.N.E.R.
Nation-Wide Popularity through
Fair Dealing.
The phenomenally rapid growth and nation-wide popularity of the
Producers and Citizens’ maj f be said to rest on the fact that it lives up
to the spirit as well as the letter of the ideal of Co-operation. For
example, its Policy-holders are protected against forfeiture of their
policies during seasonal emergencies; each year definite sums are
earmarked for loan purposes; while the Company’s intimate know-
ledge of the peculiar needs of the men on the land takes form in
sympathetic, understanding treatment.
The PRODUCERS & CITIZENS’
Co-operative Assurance Co. of Australia, Ltd.,
Gov. Dir.:
A. It. Trethowan.
114-120 Castlereagh Street, Sydney.
Gen. Man.:
H. Fell.
:t9
11,
always
accurate
They keep time
all the time
sdf
SOLD BY
ALL JEWELLERS
"Right with the Sun .
THE MAN
ON THE LAND'S
PAGE
THE NEWEST HEADERS.
The Sunshine people (H. V. McKay,
Ltd.) had a fine display of farming imple-
ments at the Sydney Show, but the big
attraction was the 12ft. auto-header. This
machine has no side draught, and does not
waste wheat by knocking it down with
wheels, as all parts of the machine are
behind the comb. It can go through a 12ft.
gate, while the horse-drawn 8-footer requires
a 16ft. opening; and it can turn in its own
length. The raising and lowering of the
comb are done by the built-in Fordson power-
plant. It should strip up to 40 acres per
day, and in a good crop take off a bag
per minute. Two men are required to
work it, one to drive and the other to
operate the double bagging apparatus. As
the full bags are taken off, they can be stood
on the platform, which holds 13 unsewn bags.
Another small platform close handy carries
cornsacks. Tangled crop won’t stop it. With
the false-comb attachments a tangled crop
can be picked off the ground and no wheat
wasted. In a 14-bag crop, working 94 hours,
this header has taken off over GOO bags.
Should heavy or boggy ground have to be
gone through, causing wheels to slip or pace
to slacken, the speed of the machine can still
be kept up. The Slattery Bros., of Jamestown
(S.A.), bought five of these machines for
last harvest and took off over 20,000 bags
with them.
The price of the auto-header is £575, and
it should do as much as, if not more than,
two Bft. horse-drawn machines. The latter
would cost £2OO each. Add this to the cost
of 16 horses for hauling two machines, plus
extra oil and wear and tear on almost twice
the number of parts, and it seems that the
auto-header is easily the better proposition.
An addition to the list of headers is the
10-footer. This is very much the same as
the 8-footer. The grain wheel has been
extended nearer the crop; more stays have
been given to the undercarriage and a dis-
tributor driven from the top elevator spindle
has been built in behind the threshing drum
to spread the uncleaned wheat evenly.
The rice farmer has been catered for with
the 6ft. header, somewhat similar to tjie
wheat header. It is engine-functioned and
pulled by four horses. The engine is a 7-li.p.
Sun Duo 2-cylinder petrol. It has a double
front wheel, to make sure that the front of
the machine won’t sink into damp ground.
This machine has been built to harvest any-
thing up to a 170-bushel crop; thus far 5000
acres have been worked on the Yanco irri-
gation area at an average of 80 bushels per
acre. As most of the blocks on the area are
fairly small, a big acreage cannot be done per
day. as small blocks mean a lot of turning.
Still, with a 6ft. machine, six to eight acres
per day can be harvested. Twentv of these
machines are going into the Griffith-Leeton
area this year. They cost about £4OO.
FORD FARM.
Motor Tractors, Ltd., had one of the larg-
est displays at the Sydney Show, including
Fordson tractors for farm use; Fordson
tractors fitted with built-in sawbenches,
cranes and winches; and Fordson tractors
fitted with most kinds of implements needed
for Shire work, such as road-graders and
wheel and drag scoops—these last useful on
the farm too.
The Howard power take-off is fitted to
those Fordsons which are coupled to Taylor
and Massey-Harris headers. It is an excel-
lent device and mechanically sound. It con-
sists of a main roller chain running in a
dust-proof housing from the belt-pulley
spindle to cross-bearings, and from there by
roller chains to both drives on the headers.
There are no belts to slip or slap, and much
more power can be obtained than by coupling
on in front of the machine without the take-
off. Fitte- 1 to an Bft. header 28 to 30 acres
can be taken off in a day in a 20-bushel
crop. A header fitted with this device should
handle any crop; if at any time it should
become choked, the engine can be stopped
and the. header left running until it has
cleared itself. Extension controls are fitted
from engine to header seat, and both
machines can be operated by one man.
The power take-off has also been fitted
to a Cliff and Hunting portable lucerne press.
By having the lucerne or straw in wind-
rows, the hay can be forked in and pressed
while the machine is slowly travelling.
The Howard rotary hoe has been built
for either the orchard or the wheat-field ; it
will cut up grass, stubble or weed, and
should be an excellent implement in an old
overgrown orchard. The wheat-field rotary
noe is a lifiidy-looking implement for work-
ing up ground immediately stubble has been
burnt; the makers claim that it will go into
ground that a plough will not touch, but
the writer has not seen it tested. For
orchard work the Howard subsoiler is also
shown. Other implements which can be
used with horses or Fordson are disc har-
rows, spike harrows and tine cultivators.
Another feature is the ‘‘Belle City,” which
is a Fordson from which the road-wheels
have been taken and a caterpillar drive fitted.
ROUND THE SHOW.
The machinery section of the Sydney
Show is always the one that draws the
farmer. This year, if lie was a wheat man,
McKay’s auto-header perhaps held him long-
est. Robinson’s new reaper-thresher also
had many visitors. It has a 9ft. cut and
the draught is very light. The Big E. strip-
per-harvester has a 10ft. cut, which can be
extended to 12ft. Among this firm’s tilling
implements is a new duck-foot stump-jump
scarifier. The scarifier has come into its
own again, especially in Victoria; and the
N. S. Wales farmer isn’t as keen on the
disc cultivator as ho was. It had advantages
for working stubble ground; but less and
less stubble ground is sown nowadays—
fallow is the thing. In these days, too,
when the copper-carbonate process is becom-
ing almost universal, the combined grader
and dry pickier is worth attention —it does
good work. Top-dressing experiments have
DIDN’T MIND SAYING NOTHING FOR ONCE.
BUD: “Say when!”
DUD: “What for?”
lately given such fine results that the super,
and sulphate of ammonia salesmen are
wearing their widest smiles. Good land is
increasing so much in price that more simply
must be got out of it somehow; and top-
dressing—-especially in districts where the
rainfall is fairly regular-—is the most obvi-
ous plan where the grazier is concerned.
Robinson’s showed the Federal fertiliser
spreader. It has a star force feed, and any
quantity from a few pounds to hundred-
weights per acre can bo sown in the machine
widths of 6, 9 and 12 feet.
Ruzacott’s exhibit, as usual, attracted the
dairy-farmer. For the out-backer, always
looking for some new weapon to use against
his enemy the rabbit, there was cyanogas—
a dust supplied in air-tight containers, and
applied by a small blower that can be
handled by one man. When it is forced into
a warren a smoky cloud comes out of un-
sealed openings, and these can be attended
to. The gas is . operative for 24 hours, and
by that time there shouldn't be many live
rabbits in that particular block of flats.
CLYDE ENGINEERING IDEAS.
Included with the Clyde (N.S.W.) Engin-
eering Co.’s exhibit at the Sydney Show was
die rotary manure-spreader. Although this
machine is only sft. wide it has a spread
of 20ft., and there is no reason why it
shouldn’t work in hilly or timbered country.
This co.’s chaffcutters, made in all sizes,
can be fitted with a creeping feed-box which
will keep the feed-box free from loose straw,
etc. The system of blowing the chaff instead
of elevating it was also shown. This
does away with the trouble of elevators block-
ing and belts slipping or breaking The
chaff falls into the pan drum at the bottom
side of the knife-box and is blown through
a. lOin. galvanised pipe into the shed or silo.
The blast can be easily regulated; it will
carry the chaff 40 feet or more.
HOME LIGHTING AND POWER.
The Australian General Electric had two
useful lighting sets at the Sydney Show. The
Austinlite is an Austin four-cycle water-
cooled engine, direct-coupled to and mounted
on the same base as the generator, fitted. with
magneto ignition, water and exhaust piping,
silencer and fuel tank, etc. The engine
starts up when the battery is run down, and
when the battery is charged up again the
generator set automatically stops. The en-
gine will again start up should a heavy load
be put on the set and does not stop until
the battery is fully charged. The other set
is a single-cylinder air-cooled four-cycle
kerosene engine coupled and mounted as in
the other. It must be started by hand, but
a charging regulator breaks the ignition cir-
cuit when the battery is fully charged. In
addition to, the house-lighting, the usual
domestic appliances may be run from either
of these two plants—hot points, dishwashers,
washing machines, vacuum cleaners, irons,
etc.
The Westinghouse'people had three light-
ing sets —popular-size .32-volt, a 110-volt and
a large-size 32-volt. These sets will run
on kerosene or gasoline, are started by press-
ing a switch and stop automatically when
the battery is fully charged.
The Gloria Light Co. of Australasia,
maker of a well-known petrol light, was run-
ning the Gloria Matador light and power
plant. This is made in three types. The
plants consist of driving motor from 1} to
4 h.p., 2 and 4 stroke single cylinder. Bosch
magneto ignition and water cooled. To start
a lever is turned, and in two minutes, when
the engine is warm, it is changed over to
crude oil, and the motor works on this,
Once the engine is started everything is
automatic. Separators, pumps, grindstones,
5 bUrun'from 3S?'JXr W * '"*"”**
‘ For those who cannof afford to instal power
plants, and if only light is wanted, the
Aladdin kerosene mantle lamp will serve a
good purpose. In a recent test an Aladdin
lamp set to 73 candle-power cost for 10
hours 3fd. for fuel. Any ordinary roiind-
wick lamp can be converted at a trifling
cost.
The improvement that has taken place
during the last few years in the lighting
of country homes is as important as the
changes that have been made in the
machinery shed. It has not only meant
economy; it has also relieved the awful
gloom of the long evenings and given the
cocky and his family a far better chance to
both improve their minds and get a bit more
enjoyment out of country life.
THE FARMYARD OF FIFTY YEARS
AGO.
“Penffeld” : Can the young farmer visualise
a typical well-equipped farmyard of 50
years ago?
The machinery, what there was of it, was
kept well covered. The roof of the sheds
was of straw ; sometimes it was thatch, some-
times just straw mounded over stout rafters.
Underneath, in the place of honor, was the
reaping machine. Bull and Ridley’s greal
invention, though quarter of a century old,
hadn’t been greatly improved upon. Along-
side was the winnower; and there was never
a dustier or more wearisome job than turn-
ing the handle of it. Barley was worse than
wheat to deal with, for the barley was rolled
out —the grain was left to ripen on the straw,
and the mowing machine —which did nothing
but cut the straw and let it fall where it
had stood —was put into the crop. A cir-
cular stack was built and in a slack time a
“bed” was thrown off around the stack, and
a couple of horses were hitched to a roller
to tread and knock the grain free. Then the
straw was carefully forked off, the grain,
well mixed with light chaff and dust, swept
up and winnowed. Oats were handled the
same way.
Rye, more grown then than now, because
there was more demand for the straw in
collar-making, called for even more labor.
As the straw mustn’t be broken, the ripe
crop was cut, often by scythe, and sheaved
by hand in the paddock. Twine —“binder
twine” —came in a few years later; until
then the binder was a wisp of the straw, tied
at the head-end, and twisted and turned
under at the other end. A man had to have
hands of leather to do this job. The grain
was beaten out by flaih —surely the awk-
wardest implement ever invented. Hay, of
course, was brought in unbound, and was
often cut and bound into half cwt. trusses
for delivery. The cutting had been done
from time immemorial by a fish-shape knife;
the Americans about this time sent us a
knife built on the same principle as the
modern bread-saw.
For trussing, the hay bands were made on
the farm. You wetted down a heap of straw,
then took a round stick 2ft. long, and with
it twisted a strand, using the stick as a reel
for the. strand as it grew in length. A hay-band
well made would lift more than 2cwt. Tin
stacks, being built loose, had to be thatched,
and the ropes for holding the thatch down
were farm-made in much the same way
except that the stick was stuck into a post
to carry the weight of the made rope. With
a small home-made extension of this contri-
vance a man could twist 150 yards of straw
rope in a short day. The cultivation was
done by a couple of long single-furrow ploughs
with perhaps a double-furrow; a few daring
men, it was said, were using tliree-furrows,
A scarifier, a set of harrows and a roller
completed the outfit. The sowing was done
by hand; some men used one hand, some
both. In either case the seed was carried
in a box suspended from the shoulders; the
very up-to-date had a tin shaped to fit around
the' belly, and some supposedly-mad people
had tried to scatter the grain in a small
machine whose handle they turned as they
walked. In fact, they walked whatever they
did ; the first machines to always carry the
man who worked them were the stripper ami
the mower, the latter, by the way, at first
always of English make until America arrived
with something lighter.
WHY OUR WOOL WENT WRONG.
“Jasper” : The real reasons why Austra-
lian wool in general, and N.S.M. wool in
particular, has degenerated have never been
set out. .
Meat prices have been unsatisfactory tor
years past, and the export trade is in a
chronically crippled condition, but wool has
been always payable. If graziers had pro-
duced sheep that were veritable mountains
of mutton they wouldn’t be worth much m
Homebush to-day. The fact is that sheep-
breeders didn’t deliberately set out to pro-
duce the type of animal at which Bradford
scoffs. The extraordinary wool boom of a
few years ago partly accounts for his pre-
valence. When any sort of fleece was bring-
ing an extremely profitable price, there wasn i
any special inducement to breeders to pre-
serve the purity of their flocks. Moreover,
the drought years 1917-18-19 so depleted
the flocks that for several years it was dim-
cult to discriminate. Any sort of mongrel
(Continued on page 31.)


REX-PYE, packed in 11b. and ilb.
hygienic cans, in a delicious jelly, is the
tastiest treat cooked ready to serve,
and the most economical meat meal you
can obtain. You will find, as thousands
have found, that each tin is consistently
of the same outstanding choice quality.
This, due to the facts set out below,
accounts for the triumphal march of
REX-PYE into popular favor.
m
m
V'j
G ■ 1350
I
tzzaan*
■':/' ■
creacrr*
7
>X~'
Sgß&Btmr
mm&m
WXAaiS*
asssw^
ca*£st3**
K3aaacnn»
/
■f '«ar
tosaaaza:
111
/
ail
5
All
This is why we claim that REX-PYEis the finest meat in the world:
1. The tin itself is unique, being stamped out and seamless; hermetically sealed without
solder (lead) or soldering flux—it is the perfectly hygienic container.
2. The meats (raw materials) are perfectly wholesome, being choicest quality, carefully
selected. Visitors from abroad, inspecting our works, have said that the meats are
superior to those used at any other factory in their experience.
3. The spicing by a recipe in our sole possession and the excellent jelly help to produce
the delicious flavor characteristic of REX-PYE.
4. The cooking en casserole preserves all the wholesome meat juices, and retains the high
food values.
All these facts combine to produce a meat product of unrivalled quality. Thus we account
for that delicate aroma as you open the tin, and that delicious flavor when the dainty is
eaten.
Ash your Grocer for REX-PY E
—the finest meat in the world.
Looh for the attractive label.
Imitations are offered for sale, but
they are decidedly not REX-PYE.
Its delicate aroma and delicious flavor
distinguish it from all other meats.
FOGGITT JONES LTD
Curers of the Choice REX Hams and Bacon,
and
Packers of the Choice REX Canned Delicacies.


SHIPS
MARINE
ENGINES
LOCOMOTIVES
MACHINE
TOOLS
FORGINGS
CASTINGS
HON
FERROUS
PRODUCTS
DROP
STAMPINCS
HIGH SPEED
STEELS
SMALL TOOLS
GAUGES
PNEUMATIC
TOOLS
ELECTRIC
LIGHTING-
SETS
COAL
HANDLING
PLANT
HYDRAULIC
MACHINERY
DOCK
EQUIPMENT
PUMPING
MACHINERY
WATER. TURBINES
AND
PELTON WHEELS
GENERAL
ENGINEERING
M.C.628
A New Steel Age
ONE of the most outstanding events
in recent engineering history is
the discovery of “Vibrac” Steel.
Its unique combination of very
valuable features has already been
taken advantage of by the leading
designers of locomotives, motor cars
and aero-engines, to whom its great
strength —which allows of con-
siderable reductions in weight —is
particularly important.
“Vibrac” opens a whole new field to
designers concerned with highly
stressed parts and it is fitting that, as
Engineers to the Empire, Armstrong
Whitworth should be responsible
lor this epoch-making discovery of
the Steel Age.
ENGINEERS TO
THE EMPIRE
You are invited to send for Cata-
logues of any A. W. products in
which you may be interested. If
you are a steel user, we particu-
larly welcome correspondence on
the subject of “Vibrac/’
Sir • W - G - ARMSTRONG ‘WHITWORTH 6? C°L TD
NEWCASTLE • ON * TYNE * AND * MANCHESTER * ENGLAND
London Ofrce: KINNAIRD HOUSE * PALL MALL EAST * LONDON * S ’ W ' 1
Code • BENTLEY’S Telegrams : ZIGZAG, PICCY, LONDON.
Agents for Australia : Messrs. GILBERT LODGE &? CO. Ltd., MELBOURNE and SYDNEY


r \
pH|
m
SHEARING SHEDS
STABLES
FLOORS FORWOOLSHEDS
FENCING DROPPERS
PLANS AND PRICES FREE
GLOBE TIMBER
MILLS
COY.
FLINDERS ST ADELAIDE, S. A.
YV&W26.
AUSTRALIAN
IT
T,ondon Office:
“Gresham House,”
Old Itroad Street, E;C.2.
ELECTROLYTIC ZINC
BRAND
BRAND
Containing about 99.95% Metallic Zino
(99.9% guaranteed).
ZINC CONCENTRATES
Various Grade*.
Zinc Producers’ Association ltd'.,
Contractors with the Board of Trade.
COLLINS HOUSE, 360 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE.
Ericsson Telephone Mfg. Co.
(Formerly James Paton & Co.)
Sole Importers of the Famous Ericsson Telephone and Switchboard
Apparatus, for Magneto, Common Battery and Automatic Working.
WIRELESS APPARATUS,
19 YORK STREET, SYDNEY; 509 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE.
sdf
There’s no gloom in the home
where Hypol is used. Children
nourished with this famous
energy food develop affability,
alertness of mind and body,
vigor, happiness.
Hypol also provides a valuable
treatment in tubercolosis, and
is a proved safeguard against
that widespread and most
damaging disease—Rickets.
The beauty of Hypol is its
delicious appetising flavour. It
looks and tastes like cream, yet
contains 50 per cent, of Cod
Liver Oil; pure, rich vitamin-
laden oil from the deep waters
of the great North Sea.
Hypol is just Hypol. You
should ask for it by name if
you want this distinctive life-
saving emulsion.
HYPOL
is good for sick people of all ages.
A rich food —A stimulating tonic
and healer all in one.
In large bottles 2/6, from your chemist or grocer.
Made by FELTON, GRIMWADE & CO. PTY. LTD., Melbourne.
7
sdƒ
f POLISHES—PRESERVES—PREVENTS CRACKS
BOSTOCK’S Shoe Creams are made in all
principal shades, and especially noted for the
New Shade of Bois-de-Rose, Putty, Sunburn
and Oak,
Price 6c? f per tube* Obtainable Everywhere .
®>3i4
was worth breeding from, and culling for
a while was almost abandoned.
The crossbred boom of the war years was
another influence. So far as statistics are
concerned crossbreds, from forming nearly
a third of our total flocks, have dropped to
insignificant numbers, but this mostly means
that the alien strain has now become dis-
seminated throughout our merino flocks.
What happened when mixed breeds became
unpopular was that the cross ewes were
mated with merino rams, and the ewe por-
tion of the resulting progeny was again so
mated until a merino (so-called) arrived.
Apart, however, from the foregoing rea-
sons why our fleece is coarser to-day than
heretofore, there is another special reason in
N.S.W. why the proportion of coarse to fine
wool is likely to be much greater in tin'
future than it has been in the past. Climatic
conditions have something to do with the
production of fine wool. Rich feeding Inis
a tendency to produce coarse fibre. It is
mainly at the expense of the fine wool regions
that agriculture is expanding. The country
which tends to produce coarse wool and hefty
sheep is not being encroached upon to nearly
the same extent. As a result of the fore-
going combination of circumstances a situa-
tion of a threatening kind has arrived in our
wool industry. This can only be relieved
by a widespread and continued use of fine-
wool merino rams, which would restore the
proper balance between frame and fibre.
A CHEAP FARM “WASH.”
“E. Mudliook" : For the man on the land
who wishes to “wash” his barns and out-
houses to make them look nice and preserve
the wood, at a low cost, the following should
fill the bill: 561 b. whiting (Spanish for
preference) ; 151 b. cheap yellow ochre
(more or less, according to color required) ;
lib. powdered alum. Mix this until it has
the consistency of ordinary paint with equal
parts of boiled and raw linseed oil, adding
one of the cheap turpentine substitutes as a
thinner. The result will be a good filling
and lasting paint, a long way cheaper than a
white-lead mixture and for rough wooden
outhouses even more suitable. Venetian red
may be used in place of the yellow ochre if a
pinky shade is desired. The mixture may be
used also as a primer on the homestead itself,
and ordinary paint can be put over it. It
is far superior to ordinary water paints and
is only a fraction dearer.
SAFETY CHAFFCUTTER DEVICES.
“Hayband”: Near Young (N.S.W.) re-
cently the always-hungry rollers of a chaff-
cutter snatched the feeder’s right hand. The
flying knives made short work of the fingers.
The victim was Reuben Rehane, country
tennis champion. Ellis’s safety-feed renders
this accident impossible. The hay is fed
to three dummy rollers, which are harmless.
Instantly the first dummy takes hold of the
sheaf the feeder is done with it. The re-
volving dummies carry it to the deadly pair,
which, under a pressure of approximately
a ton, wind it to the knives. Result, a
compulsory safety margin of about 18in.
Previous alleged safety ideas had the defect
that they interfered with the capacity of the
machine. Ellis’s device helps the feeder. It
can be fitted to all makes; and it, or some-
thing like it, should be compulsory.
MAIZE YIELDS.
“Mulgo” : In farmers’ barns there is much
argument as to t.lie best varieties of maize
to grow in particular localities and under
natural conditions. Six years ago a competi-
tion was conducted on the Manning (N.S.W.)
by the A. and 11. Association of Taree,
and the man who won it had no intention
of competing when he sowed his crop. It
was intended for bullock feed, and wms sown
thickly, in rows 3ft. apart and only Gin.
apart in the rows. The variety was
Silvermine, and yielded 157 bushels to
the acre. The crops that gained sec-
ond and third places, Improved Yellow r
Dent, 146 and 136 bushels respectively, had
been cultivated for the prize from the jump.
But the third man set his rows 4ft. apart,
and it is reckoned that if he had planted
closer he would have won the prize. Actu-
ally, the competition only made more argu-
ment. But the 157 bushels, I think, is
Australia’s record yield ; and another record
was established the same year when maize
reached 10s. a bushel in the Sydney whole-
sale market.
BANANAS AND BANANA LAND.
“Birre Gurra”: The article on “What
Crops Consume” prompts me to inquire if
there is any record of the relative quantities
of food constituents removed from the soil
by banana plants. The banana is, I should
think, the greediest feeder of all cultivated
plants. Even the rich, virgin scrub-lands
of tropical and sub-tropical areas will pro-
duce bananas of marketable quality, in pay-
able quantity, for a period of only six
years. Growers nowadays sow beans, peas
and other nitrogenous crops in their planta-
tions, with the twofold object of augmenting
the supply of nitrogen in the soil and mini-
mising the dreary hoe-work. But, as far
as I have been able to judge, the practice
does not materially affect either the quality
of the fruit produced or the life of the
plantation.
WOOLPACKS.
“Trepex”: Bradford is pricking up its ears
over still another form of improved wool-
pack. This time the idea came from Aus-
tralia. .Tute still remains the basic fabric
and the size is the same. But the jute, after
weaving, is chemically treated on lines sug-
gested by the researches of an Australian
chemist. It is believed that the material
for the pack is immersed in a thin solution
of rubber and put through heavy rollers.
This gives a smooth surface and a firm body
to the stuff, so that it will neither shed loose
fibres into the wool nor fray when it is cut.
The experiments in this regard have been
successful, but the tare seems rather light
to stand the racket of transport. If some-
thing serviceable can be developed on these
lines, and without too great an added cost, it
will deserve universal support in Australia.
One cannot deny the demerits of the present
pack. But radical changes like that to the
all-wool pack are unwelcome. Not only
would their cost be much greater, but the
size would not fit in with the big quantity
of woolpresses that are distributed through-
out the continent, nor the large amount of
plant that is installed to handle wool.
STARTING A FLOCK.
“Trepex”: Wool-brokers are asked for a
lot of advice by growers when they come
down to see their wool sold. Some of the
questions are wise; some are—well, other-
wise. About the silliest of the lot is the
inquiry as to what sort of sheep a man
should go in for. Of course, he should go in
for the sort of sheep that suit his land and
district. In the ’seventies Maoriland pastured
!)S per cent, of merinos and 2 per cent, of
crossbreds; to-day the position is the other
way about. And the farmers there didn’t
change because their brokers told them to;
they found out for themselves what was best
for'their own good. A great success they’ve
made of it. too. Many men start sheep-
grazing with a preconceived notion of what
they are going to do, before they have studied
the nature of their land. Worse still, others
stick their capital into a line of sheep be-
cause they think they’re cheap, irrespective
of whether they suit the land or not. Such
men don’t need their heads read —they need
their heads faced round to some other occu-
pation. Land is too precious to waste on
them.
“Gleufield”: The soldier settler in the
new Malice reaches the stage in his fencing
wlfen he can run a few sheep. What is the
most profitable type of sheep for him to go
in for? A good start can be made from,
say, 56 to 70 large-framed comeback ewes,
four- or six-tooth for preference, Joined
with a Border Leicester ram about Novem-
ber, they will give an early-maturing lamb
suitable as a freezer, which will be ready
for the market at least a month earlier than
those of the southern districts, and that
means top prices. In addition the ewes cut
a profitable fleece. Sow oats for grazing.
HINTS FOR THE FARM.
“Yancy”: If the Furphy or farm water-
cart is showing signs of rust-lioles, here’s a
gland treatment that will add years to its
life. Buy half a gallon of biturine, paint
inside and out. Procure a tin and perforate
the bottom like a pepper duster, and while
the paint is wet dust cement wherever the
iron is weak. If the water is for drinking
purposes, it will taste for two or three fin-
ings; but unless you overdo it this won't
hurt you.
“Glenfield”: The Mallee cocky up our
way (Onyen, Vic.) is waking up to the fact
that he must make better use of liis 640-acre
block, so lie is going in for a light form of
intense culture. He is beginning to use all
his land, one-third wheat crop, one-third
fallow, and the one-tliird in oats which for-
merly he let go to barley grass. This grass
is the best host of “take-all,” which can
wither up an entire paddock of growing
wheat. The oats give a good reserve of hay,
and, in addition, about three times as many
sheep can be carried as formerly ; the land
is cleansed of weeds, and consequently a
clean and healthy wheat crop results after
good fallow.
“B.B.”: Why don’t we grow cinnamon
in the tropical parts of Queensland? It
thrives in Ceylon, Java, and parts of India.
Years back hundreds of cinnamon plants
were distributed along the Queensland coast,
but only a few of them were planted on the
Daintree River. Worn-out sugar-lands, if
dry and sandy, would be admirably adapted
for the cultivation of the plant, and north
of Mackay there is no lack of such land.
Cinnamon may yield its first product in five
years, but if the trees are planted in wet
or heavy soils they will be much longer in
maturing, and the quality of the bark is not
as good.
“Nizam”: I should like to get advice as
to the best means of dealing with the gaiali
nuisance. These pests do damage at two
periods —when the crop is just sown and
when it is just through the ground. They
shell any seed left uncovered, and when the
young plants appear tear them up and eat
the milky grain underneath. They betray
an almost human intelligence in covering the
ground, and in my district (Hillston,
N.S.W.) a big mob will do more damage
in a few days than rabbits will in a year.
* * * *
“Taharangi” : I am not calling “ J.D.C.”
(B. 31/3/’27) in question, but merely seek-
ing information, as in Maoriland our lambs
are rather valuable, and we don’t like treat-
ing them rough. I take it that “J.D.C.” has
actually marked 1000 lambs (normal propor-
tion of rams) in 60 minutes, or has marked
a larger number at the rate of a lamb to
three and a half seconds. I should, like to
know whether there was a pretty high per-
centage of deaths and rigs subsequent to
the operation; whether he couldn’t have
made a cleaner job, thus ensuring a quicker
recovery, if he had taken a little more time;
whether he had a rouseabout with an oil-
stone keeping the knives up to him; whether
the lambs were his own property; and, above
all, did “J.D.C.” have time to spit or did
he simply swallow ’em?
* * * *
Some farmers in N.Q. are making money.
A Bowen tomato-grower recently sold a
plough for £5, and it was the same plough
his father bought 20 years ago for £1 10s.
“Spike”: A first-grade cow pasturing on
tip-top feed may successfully rear twins,
provided the calves are uniform when dropped
and the uniformity continues with their
growth. But should one be of stronger
development his mate, deprived of sufficient
natural maternal nourishment, will be com-
pelled to graze on the pastures at too early
an age, and resultant black scours will
mean physic or finis.
* * * *
“Lao-dali”: People interested in trees
often wonder why an odd guard here and
there is minus an inmate and why one of
a healthy row of street sliade-bestowers often
dies in the prime of life. One reason is
leakage from gas mains. Gas-permeated
earth will kill anything.


HPhe first puff convinces you
of the superior quality of
Armiji Cflyb
9* CIGARETTES 1/6
In pure ribbed watermarked rice paper .
CAVANDERS Ltd., London (Est. 1775), Pioneers of Hygienic Cigarette Packing.
Wi
€
CORK-TIPPED
or PLAIN
SMOKE-OH!
It’s no use putting the acid on a lemon.
Estate-agents never lose anything by
getting off their blocks.
A man who is game enough to nut liis foot
down is a husband of the right stamp.
Some men found guilty of murder are
hanged, others have the time of their lives.
❖ *
A Mr. Rice, of Brisbane, recently married
one of the Misses Hays. What will the
harvest be?
“The Poulti"' Council has decided to
increase the price of lien-eggs.” Tiie public
will now realise what it means to bow
beneath a heavier yolk.
* *
“What’s a defeecit, father?” the young son
of a Scotch immigrant lately settled on the
land at Orange asked his father. Sandy
hadn’t taken long to become interested in
N.S.W. politics. “A defeecit, my son,” he
answered, “is auld Lang’s sign.”
SHE WOULDN’T HAVE DONE IT
EITHER.
AUNTIE: “When I was a girl, my dear, we
never let gentlemen see us in a bathing-
dress.”
ANABELLE : “No, dear, and from what I've
seen of ’em I don’t blame you.”
Things had gone wrong with the miner
working down the shaft under the old-
fashioned whip. The day was hot, the tools
were blunt, the ground was hard, and there
was a new-chum braceman. Small things
had fallen down the shaft, with yells from
tlih brace: “Look out below!” At last the
wire rope slipped over the pulley and down
it Avent. That Avas the climax. After a
breathless interval came a voice from below:
“Now throw the flamin’ horse down, and
tumble in yourself, and then let’s have a bit
of peace.”
The small boy was being shown his new
baby brother, and evinced no enthusiasm.
“Why didn’t you get one big enough to go
the messages, Mum?” he asked.
The King has acknowledged the G.-G.’s
congratulations on the inauguration of the
beam service. References to local moles
were, of course, tactfully omitted from the
Royal reply.
* *
A Sydney Sun correspondent: —
I was surprised to read that the judges at the
Show would not have any opportunity to meet the
Duke and Duchess. These are honorable men of the
highest integrity, men who bring generally a wife
or relative with them. Surely this could be remedied.
Perhaps, it might; hut if the wife insists on
coming, what tire the poor chaps to do?
Bloggs, a local storekeeper, took the chair
at the meeting of South Coast dairy-farmers
called to hear an address from an expert
of the Department of Agriculture. “One
of the subjects the speaker will touch upon
is ‘Cows that don’t pay,’ which ought to be
'interesting,” he said, introducing the visitor;
and then he scowled at the audience.
THE MAN'S THE MAN FOR A' THAT.
Comparisons are odious —to those who
suffer by them.
The girls of Auburn resent their suburb
being called the Village of the Plain.
Many a poor fellow goes and drowns him-
self because he can’t keep his head above
water.
* *
A lot of people who claim to follow their
own conscience are not worried much by
dictation.
$ $
Though you may not be able to keep pace
with a fast set you may find comfort in
running them down.
“The British Budget—how Mr. Churchill
spent Sunday.” Well, that was some-
thing he didn’t get out of the people's pocket.
❖ ❖
Sleep, beautiful sleep, greatest of bene-
factions ! Heaven alone knows how some
married. men would get on if their wives
didn’t sleep sometimes.
❖ I.'
Man is said to be more profoundly retro-
spective than woman; but when she is facing
a mirror a woman can be as deeply interested
in her reflections as any man ever was in
his own.
IMMORTALITY.
This question has been Argument’s chief
friend,
“To be or not to be?” But why that
strife?
E’en if indeed Death’s fingers write The
Eno,
Let us at least deserve another life!
n.s.w. William Lucey.
Mistress: “My husband tells me there were
two policemen in the kitchen last night.”
Cook: “It wasn’t my fault, mum. I gave
one of ’em th’ office to buzz off, but ’e
wouldn’t.”
* *
If a girl has an engaging manner, it is
not long before she finds someone wanting
to marry her.
When a doctor gets his knife in, with the
patient it is a case of fork out.
* *
A doleful tale.he did recite —
All day he hadn’t had a bite.
“Please go,” she said, “for both our sakes:
The dog we have makes no mistakes.”
“Who won th’ argument between you an’
Brannigan at the Pig and Whistle after I
left last week?”
“It was a draw. We both took th same
number of yards of bandagin' to an inch.”
Many people qualify for keeping boarding-
houses by making a hash of life.
All who blither are not bold. On our
trams it is the bold that retain the fare.
The Duke and Duchess Avere welcomed at
Beaudesert (Q.) by a party of “garishly-
painted” natives. These official functions
seem inevitably the same in Sydney or Beau-
desert.
:|= C
MY PET OCTOPUS.
“Yer mightn’t believe it”—this is old
Dan’s yarn-—“but the comicalest pet I ever
had Avas an octopus.
“Years ago, when I used ter fish at the
Soav an’ Pigs—and, mind yer, fishin’ was
fisliin’ then; snapper and jewies, strewth! —
I bumped up against him. I’d just got
properly kellicked and started when I met
the shock of me life. Two flamin’ long
feelers comes up out er the water and inter
the boat alongside me.
“I ’ad nothing to dong ’im with, an’ if I
’ad I’d ha’ bin scared to use it, ’e looked
such a big cow. Without ’ardly knowin’
Avhat I Avas doin’ I fired a fish at ’im, an’ ’e
grabs it and disappears, and 1 don’t see any
more of ’im. But I’m bloAvcd if next day
’e don’t turn up again, an’ we goes through
the same performance. Then I thort to me-
self that the poor coav musta bin hungry, an’
after that it got to be a reg’lar thing. He’d
disappear soon’s I fed him, like as if ’e
didn't want to interfere with me fishin’.
“One day I fastened on to a decent snap-
per, about a 20-pounder, and I was just
loanin’ over-side to dig the gaff in ’im, when
overboard goes a presentation-watch outer
me pocket which I wouldn’t ha’ lost for
50 quid.
“While I was still sliakin’ me ’ead over me
loss, up comes ’is nibs again. 1 dooks ’im
Avith a fish, but instead of movin’ off ’e comes
a bit closer. And then I’m blowed if ’e
don’t uncurl one of ’is feelers and put me
watch down on the seat alongside me!
“And yet some people'll tell you that
fish ain’t got no gratitood.”
FANCY THAT!
It’s a long, long way to the land of Fancy
That,
Where the bolly-wobble juggles 'with a lizard
in a hat,
And the snakes talk French when they go to
Sunday-school.
And the pale moon swims in the Purple
Treacle Pool.
You have to pass the crocodile to get to
Ffincy That,
And you get there all the quicker if you rub
his feet with fat;
There are three green toads that will lielv> vou
up the beach,
While the bolly-wobble juggles and the
monkey sucks a peach.
But you Can’t Get Back if you go to Fancy
That —
’Cos your feet stick fast on the manzanilla
mat,
And the bolly-wobble juggles with the lizard
in a hat—
And you simply have to stay there —and
so that’s just that!
S.A.
C. H. S.
CERTIFIED ROMANCE.
Note : The tendency of the modern story is
towards exaggeration. The reader is expected to
take for granted anything the author likes to tell
him. Is it not time that some attempt was made
to popularise certified romance?
It was a beautiful balmy morning in
November; the 13th of November, 1926, the
year before Canberra was opened as the
Seat of Federal Government by the Duke
of York. The sun sent his scorching rays
with more than seasonable zeal on to the
parched earth. (See Weather Report for
November 13, 1926.)
With eyes cast down Lilian Mutely walked
slowly along the main street of Boomungen-
derri, lost in thought. There were lines of
care about her eyes and mouth. She was
the daughter of the wealthiest man in the
town. (Vide Occupational Index, Telephone
Book: Mutely N. C.; Sawmill Proprietor.
Mud-street, Boomungenderri.) The girl was
Ids only child, at that time just seventeen
years of age. (Births : Mrs. Sarah Mutely,
wife of Nocksplitlier Clydesdale Mutely, of
a daughter.—Boomungenderri Mercury,
November 13, 1909.)
The man wore a plain, green, inexpensive,
badly-fitting tweed suit. As he saw Lilian,
a flush overspread his large, unintelligent
countenance and he quickened his pace.
After their ardent embrace there was a
pause, during which Lilian anxiously scan-
ned Fortesque’s face. At last he spoke.
“Lilian,” he said, “I am a failure. I went
to Sydney intending to make a name for my-
self as a hot-water engineer, but I have not
done it. I have not been prosperous; at
times I have been very poor.
L. MANDLEBAUM.
Licensed Pawnbroker
and Dealer in Old
Wares.
October 13, 1926.
1 g. watch . . 30/--
1 g. chain . . 10/-
I. ROSENKRANTZ
October 15, 1926.
s. and.
1 pair tan boots . 5 0
1 Stetson hat ..49
1 overcoat 7 6
“I am afraid, dear. I shall have to try
another country. I have succeeded in pro-
curing my passage to Spitzbergen, and there,
perhaps, I shall bo able to start again where
competition, let us hope, is so keen and
merciless as it is here.” (Wanted, llot-
water Engineer, take charge bath-heaters:
voyage to northern clime. Apply instantly,
No. 4 wharf, Miller’s Pt„ 7.30 to-morrow
morning.— S. M. Herald.)
“I came but to say good-bye, he con-
tinued. “I have no money, but I will get
along somehow.” ... .
She thrust a paper into Ins hand: —
THE BANK OF AUSTRALASIA,
Boomungenderri.
Pay bearer tlic sum of
Uh 0 0.
N. C. Mutely.
He recoiled. “I cannot take it!” he cried,
slipping the cheque into his trousers pocket.
Then, with a choke in his voice, “Did you
endorse it?” . .
Unable to say more, but feeling somehow
lighter in spirit, he went away. (Departures.
.—Steamer Hoodoo Monarch for Spitzbergen,
with cargo bath-heaters. — Shipping Hist.)
Lilian stayed with her father at the mill.
Fortesque wrote often and she answered.
Then, one day, bad news came from Spitz-
bergen in the form of a message for laliaii
which contained, owing to the high cable
rates, merely this:
Fortesque Fizzleton Frozen.
LES ROBINSON.
RONDEAU OF RUSTIC RUMINATION.
“Owing to an outbreak of swine-fever a proclama-
tion has been issued declaring the County of Cum-
berland a quarantine area, and prohibiting the
exhibition or the movement of any pigs within this
area. Consequently there will be no pig exhibit at
the Show this year.” —Press item.
“No pigs this year!” Black words of dread
import.
With all their staggering implications
fraught,
Smiting on the dismayed bucolic ear,
Bring to the throat a lump, the salty tear
To blind the rustic eye. What hand hath
wrought
’Gainst our curled darlings such a telon
tort ?
Some blanky cow, indeed, and not a sport.
Who had the nerve to voice the ukase drear:
“No pigs this year.”
In vain for solace to the beer resort.
Or seek oblivion’s ease in many a port.
The Show is burst to bits; all's out of
gear,
Beloved bacons, now that none shall hear
Your grateful grunt, your soul-compelling
snort —
No pigs this year!
N.S.W.
J. H. B.
1, DEC’D.
When I go phut, and the lid is shut
Upon my little life,
I’ve had my run and a bit of fun,
And I shall be done
With tedium and strife.
Life, smooth or rough, once is enough;
I want. it not again.
Just let me lie; I’ve had my try;
Without a sigh
I surely won’t complain.
I’ll not look back upon the track
I had to take, because
No memory, if such there be,
Will come to me
To tell me that I teas.
STILL UNCLAIMED.
“If't wonderful how lie's got on. I remember
when he was a poor, abandoned baby."
“And from what I hear he's still abandoned.”
Just one protest: please let me rest;
To no rewards I cling.
I’ve life enjoyed, but in the void
I’ll be annoyed
If I am anything!
I know not why I live and die.
No answer comes from Space.
’Twill be a nark if from the dark
Of some dead spark
Vague memories I trace.
No, let me be eternally
Within my coffin shut.
Disintegrate, I shall await
The common fate
When I, content, go phut!
N.S.W.
ARTHUR H. ADAMS.


sdf
sdf
No. 99 SET.—Contains the essen-
tials for a perfect “Valet Shave —■
the razor, strop and blade in
leatherette case as illustrated |(%
below j O
Unequalled
Value for 3/6
A RAZOR that strops its blade without requiring a special
machine.
A* superfine blade of highest-quality steel, the edge of which is
originally tuned up to perfection and by means of the self-stropping
device —right in the razor head —shows actual daily improvement.
The tenth shave with a “Valet” blade is as good as the first, and the
fiftieth as good as the tenth.
A combination embodying the simplest and sanest principles—
nothing to take to pieces for either stropping or cleaning—simplicity
itself!
Sf*.
vO
sf%
CD
BRITISH
MADE.
99
Safety Razor
OF ALL
DEALERS.
The Auto Strop Safety Razor Co., Ltd.,
197-207 City Road, London, England.
Managing Agents for Australia —
PHIPSON & COMPANY, LTD., 181 CLARENCE STREET, SYDNEY.
Your Health!
1759
•y
m
■
m
Guinness’s Stout
I ■
m
■K
§ v: i
AUs
m
■ !927
The World Over
OBTAINABLE
EVERYWHERE


pplHi : ; ■
VK fV'-X "
*\ \ \ \ % k c- w ISP-I
Jk
i
:>
as
ft -.: \n
»jj4
■■■; ' Vx m& '
Ms 5 agfe ?■ i v ix'<n-t^4¥Mc4#l
■
§
**. m
'JUfMjt
■
arr- . -~ ■ lx
V;.,.
?
i
MM
.. ■
■
r V
V .
f M#w - v ",■;, l&K
v ■ .-
$m
:- /
HUH
TRAFALGAR STREET, PETERSHAM, NEW SOUTH WALES.
CONSTRUCTED FOR Petersham Council
OVERSEER OF WORKS E. Pearson, Esq,
CONTRACTORS Concrete Constructions, Ltd.
DATE OF CONSTRUCTION March, 1927.
sdf
sdf
B.R.C. Fabric is the ideal reinforcement for Roads.
It provides continuity, and the welded joint minimises
cracking due to shrinkage and temperature stresses. It
is easily handled on the job, and can be laid by
unskilled labor in the correct position in the concrete.
Australian Reinforced Concrete Engineering Co.Pty.,Ltd.,
Consulting and Designing Engineers.
Normanby Chambers, 430 Little Collins Street, Melbourne.
’Phone: Cent. 8861. Works: Sunshine, Victoria,
mm
mr
nrrrr
nrrrrr
Sole Distributing Agents
VICTORIA Gollin & Co. Pty., Ltd., Melbourne.
NEW SOUTH WALES . . J. Wildridge & Sinclair, Ltd., Sydney.
QUEENSLAND J. Wildridge & Sinclair, Ltd., Brisbane.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA . . Elder, Smith & Co., Ltd., Adelaide.
WEST AUSTRALIA ... Elder, Smith & Co., Ltd., Perth.
TASMANIA Hume Pipe Company (Aust.), Ltd., Hobart
NEW ZEALAND A. C. Gillies & Laird, Wellington,
• •
s
fs
fsdf


u
THE WOMAN'S MIRROR
tr
Contains everything that women should know, from kitchen to
drawing-room, from the cradle to old age.
FREE PATTERN EVERY WEEK.
It is the most remarkable Threepennyworth ever printed.
“THE WOMAN’S MIRROR.”
PUBLISHED EVERY TUESDAY,
Price 3d.
The Federal Mutual
sdf
Insurance Company of Australia, Limited.
FIRE, MARINE AND ACCIDENT.
Licensed to accept liability under Workmen’s Compensation Act 1926.
AGENTS WANTED.
Head Office: 129 I’itt Street, Sydney,
it. RAWNSLEY MOSS, Managing Director.
Victorian Branch: 360-66 Collins Street, Melbourne.
H. L. CARROLL, Manager.
Queensland Branch: Federal Mutual Chambers, Queen Street, Brisbane.
NORMAN M. MAIR, Manager.
South Australian Branch: 36 Grenfell Street, Adelaide.
E. M. MINOGUE, Manager.
SUPPORT THIS PURELY AUSTRALIAN COMPANY.
R. A. MANZIE, General Manager.
His Mate.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
FROM an evening newspaper point of view
Charlie was a failure as a murderer.
He had been an honest, sober, hard-
working miner all his life. He was as stupid-
looking asc any of tile twelve jurymen, and
looked less a criminal than the prosecuting
lawyer. One of the detectives had briefly
sketched the ease to the reporter.
"Married a showy little waitress on the
Barrier fifteen years younger than himself.
She ran away to Sydney, leaving him
and a seven-year-old son at the Hill. He
followed her, found her in the slum section,
and after getting wise, shot her ; then gave
himself up. He’s that harmless that it's
as interesting as watching a white rabbit
in a hutch.”
Charlie’s demeanor in the dock reminded
the repoiter of an onlooker wasting the best
grandstand view to watch a game that was
boring him to death. The police had been
presented with a case that was hand-made,
and all seams stitched. It was as dull as
a vagrancy prosecution, hut lie wrote: —
Brutal Murder.
Indifferent to Ills Fate.
The prisoner challenged no one. The Judge
strongly resembled a shift-boss lie knew on
the Barrier, and the prisoner felt more at-
home in consequence, lie was a thing of big
bones and big hands. ’Fracteur fumes and
lead dust had left his gums grey, with liis
teeth as loose as palings m an old fence. His
shoulders were slightly stooped, and he
carried himself with a stiffness about the
hips. lie saw no one whom lie knew. _As
he looked around, lie glimpsed a woman with
a red hat and high-heeled shoes looking at
him with pity in her eyes. Higli-heeled shoes
meant only one thing to Charlie, and he
wasn’t asking pity from anyone, particularly
from "her sort.” Back 6n the Barrier they
would understand he had merely dealt out
justice, and he wasn’t one to squeal. What
the final judgment was didn’t matter; any-
way, it would end this cramped-up inactivity.
In the wet subterranean world of glittering
stopes and gloomy drives some old cobbers
always drifted up through the fog of ’fracteur
fumes. Sudden death went on shift some-
times on the line of lode, and it was then
that the rough hands of a mate came to the
rescue. Charlie searched the faces of the on-
lookers for Ramrod Joe, who had saved his
life ten years previously. But he would have
done the same for Ramrod, because Ramrod
was as white a man as ever lived. But Ram-
rod wasn’t the sort of cove that’d hang
round a court looking at other poor blokes
being tried.
The nice clean-looking young toff bloke
with the wig on was talking like a dictionary
to the jury. Them blokes with the wigs on
must have good educations because they never
faltered for a big word ; and they never got
angry when they disagreed. Most likely their
fathers kept pubs, or big butchers’ shops, and
could afford to send them to college.
Charlie, on the other hand, was tipping
“flying foxes” into the lime-bins at Pirie
smelters at twelve years old, and hadn't got
much schooling, because the old man had
been killed in a mining accident when Charlie
was ten.
The old Judge talked to the twelve coves,
and they looked solemn and scared. Charlie
figured it out that they must be nearly as
tired as lie was, and anxious to get away. It
was with a deep sense of relief that, in
answer to a gesture from the warder, he. pre-
ceded him down the winding steps that led
from the dock to the narrow cells below.
Waiting for the inevitable verdict he had
barely time to realise that the palms of his
hands were growing white and soft for the
first time in thirty-odd years. It would be a
long time before lie was able to work again,
even if he got the chance.
Then the verdict. The nice, clean, good-
looking young toff was reading character
references from mine managers, business
people and shift-bosses and a petition from
thousands of people back on the Barrier.
Charlie was proud of the spirit that prompted
them to baftle for him. Someone was ask-
ing him if lie had anything to say. He
was not used to the sound of his own voice
in a crowd: and lie coughed nervously be-
fore hurriedly answering, as if refusing a
drink on a lint day: “No, thank yer, yer
Worship!”
The voice of him who strongly resembled
old Sam the shift-boss commenced to drone.
He caught “cold-blooded,” “callous,” “malice
aforethought,” “premeditated,” “duty to the
public,” “painful duty to perform.” And lie
caught a fleeting glance of horror in the eyes
of the high-heeled lady as he turned to the
warder and muttered under his breath : “The
ldnrsted thing is over at last—thank Christ!”
There was nothing blatantly antagonistic
to religion in his attitude, but what religion
he had was a matter of comradeship and
confronting death gamely together, hundreds
of feet down below. He had no grudge
against life, that hail always presented him
with good hard-earned money, bur. now he
was prepared to relinquish it all without a
trace of sorrow.
“There's no need for a parson to grease
the skids.'' he explained. “I'll go out quietly
without any 'elp and without any fuss.
I never understood them church blokes any
way. If a man only had a cobber by him
at the end, there’d be somethin' in it. As for
the kid. he'll be all right with my sister. 1
don't want him to sec me here. I'd rather
he always remembered his old man playing
with him on the grass in the little front
garden at home. I'm seein all the gaols the
two of us'll ever see, and when he grows up
a man, lie’ll —well, the kid'll understand.''
Charlie had refused to discuss his case
with the prison authorities. They had :o
do their job and lie could only unburden
himself to a mate lie could trust. But he
asked a question or two.
"Yer never knew a French bloke that
started a cafe or somethin’ here about five
years ago named —I can’t think of his proper
name—we called him Ramrod .Toe, because
he walked that way and was as straight
a man as ever lived !”
The warder shook his head.
“No, o’ course not. But he's somewhere
here in Sydney. He was a cobber o’ mine.
We worked in the same party in the Junction
North. Good fellow, Ramrod. Very saving
.... Kep’ to himself and never drank. I’d
know the name if I ’eard it.”
They gave him a telephone book, but it
proved futile. Inquiries would be made by
the C. I. Branch, so they assured him.
A masked, prison-clad figure preceded an
erect, well-dressed man into the condemned
cell on the morning of the execution. There
was a greeting of spontaneous friendship from
the condemned and the well-dressed man who
followed on.
“God! You Joe! They found yer, did
they? A man can die happy now. It wasn't
murder. It was justice.” The conversation
proceeded that far before Charlie released the
hand of Ramrod Joe.
"She was saved from a worse fate, anyway ;
and she can’t bring disgrace on the boy now.
l r ou wouldn’t know the lad, Joe. Fine big
bright kid. He'll have about £7OO when they
sell up.” The masked prisoner was tugging
at the gyves that bound Charlie’s arms to
his side.
Meanwhile, in an upstairs comfortable room
at Mosman. a rack-renting owner of slum
tenements was trying to thread a needle. He
was so mean that he patched his own pants.
“Tell the boy to go straight, and to think
the best of her,” said Charlie.
The two moved off together, with the
masked one walking nervously before, Ram-
rod’s hand resting gently on the other’s
bound arm.
Turning to the senior gaol official, he said:
“Thanks for what yer done, and thank them
for diggin’ up this old cobber of mine.”
With the instinct of the miner reaching
the surface, the sunshine that played on the
scaffold made Charlie take a deep breath and
fill his lungs with fresh air. Ramrod led him
to the centre of the trap doors and someone
commenced to drone nervously the prayers
for the dead.
Asked if he had anything to say. the con-
demned man turned to the masked prisoner
who. waiting to adjust the noose and the
white cap. was anxiously looking for a
sign from the hangman. “Don’t make a mess
of it,” he said. “That's all!"
A yell of pain was emitted by tin' tenement-
owner of Mosman, who had nricked his finger
with the needle.
The white cap covered Charlie's face, and
he never knew that it was his cobber, Ramrod
•Toe. the official hangman, who pulled the
lever.
SPHINX.
Too Late.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
BILLY WALLEN ami .Tack Cross were
“stonybroke and walking,” with the
afternoon sun blazing down on their
backs and reflecting the heat from the
white Gippsland road into their perspiring
faces. They would have passed Digger
Smith’s repatriation farm had it not
been for the fact that the Digger him-
self was just inside the boundary fence, slash-
ing down suckers on last year’s burn.
"Tley, mate,” shouted Billy, “any chance
of a job?”
The Digger straightened his back, and,
brushing the flies from his face, peered at
them from under the brim of his old military
lint.
"What can you do?” he inquired.
The two walked over to the fence and
dropped their swags with a sigh of relief.
“Well, we could do a drink for a start,
if yer got any water,” the spokesman said,
with a grin.
Smith brought a black billy from the shade
of a bush, and passed it to him. Then taking
out a packet of cigarettes he selected one,
and handed the packet around.
“I've got about ten acres of ringing here.”
ho said, as ho tapped the cigarette on his
thumb-nail. "Ever do any?”
"Ringin’!" exclaimed Billy. “I ain't done
any of it fer years. ’Ow ’bout you, mate?”
“Aw,” replied Cross, "I did a bit as a
nipper on tli’ old man’s selection, but I
reckon I can swing Douglas good enough to
walk round a tree.”
“Well,” said the prospective employer, "if
you feel like taking it on, you can have a
look at the timber and give me a price for
it-”
Billy shook his head. "Yer see, mate,” he
said, “we’ve spent most of our time over
th’ river in Noo South, among th’ avool an’
wheat, an' we wouldn’t know what was a
fair price. Tell yer what —if yer like to take
us on fer a while on day labor, till we see
'ow we go, we’ll be able to give yer a con-
tract price fer th' lot.”
The Digger blew a cloud of smoke through
his nostrils before replying "All right. I
want to get it done this summer. I suppose
I'll have to find axes and tucker for a start,
so you can’t expect too much. You blokes
find a place to pitch your tent while I go up
to the house and tell the wife to get you some
scran. Come up after and we'll give the
axes a touch on the stone ready for the
morning.” Picking up his billy he made
towards the homestead.
“Doesn’t seem a bad sort of a bloke,” was
Jack’s comment as he scrambled through the
fence.
“E’ll do me fer a bit of tucker and a few
bob fer th’ track,” replied Billy.
The travellers found a suitable place, and
after pitching the tent strolled up to the
house, and were introduced to Mrs. Smith,
and subsequently to the grindstone.
They started work next morning, with
Smith keeping a casual eye on them to see
they did a fair thing. About ten o’clock he
heard a shout from Cross, and knew
instinctively that something serious had hap-
pened. Hurrying over he found Wallen sit-
ting down, with blood streaming from a gash
in his boot, and Cross kneeling fumbling with
the knot of the lace.
“Here,” said the Digg'er, “I’ve seen more
of this kind of thing than you. Let me get
that boot off.” Cross gladly made way for
him.
Taking out his knife, Smith cut the laces,
and ripped the sock down, laying the foot
bare, and exposing an ugly gash in the ankle,
with a pulsing stream of blood running from
the centre of the wound. Lifting the injured
foot on to his knee, he pressed hard with
the ball of his thumb on the flesh just above
the gushing blood-stream, and was relieved
to see it disappear.
“Tli’ axe glanced off a bit of a branch,”
volunteered Wallen. “Bind it up an’ I’ll
’obble over to th’ ’ouse.”
“You can’t walk,” said Cross. “I’ll give
yer a hand ter carry ’im, Dig.”
Smith kept his eyes on the wound, and
shook his head. “No,” he said ; “lie has cut
an artery. I’ve managed to fluke it with
my thumb and stop the worst of the bleeding,
but if I shift it I’m afraid I won’t be able
to find the spot again. Can you ride?”
“A hit.”
“Well, listen. Lay him back with his
coat under his head. You’ll find a quiet pony
in the house paddock; catch him and ride
like hell into the town for the doctor. It's
only a bit over a mile along that road.” He
nodded towards the boundary fence. “Tell him
that your mate’s cut an artery, and that I'm
hanging on here to stop the bleeding until
he comes. Don't mention it to the wife. She
couldn’t do any good by coming down here.
It’s a doctor's job, anyway. Now go for your
life.” But Cross needed no urging. He was
already on his way.
“What’s all this in aid of, Dig?” inquired
the patient, with a sickly grin.
“You lay back and keep quiet, I'm running
this show.”
“All right. Don’t see that I can do any-
thin' else while yer got that toe-’old.”
Silence fell between them, and Smith kept
his eyes on the road until he saw the mes-
senger riding towards the town in a cloud of
dust. Then he set himself to wait.
Five minutes passed, and the injured man
lay back with his hat shading his face, and
appeared to have fallen asleep.
Smith's thumb began to ache intolerably,
but he set his teeth and made a resolution
not to ease the pressure. Gradually a pain
like the sear of a red-hot wire crept up the
arm, and he became conscious of a gnawing
ache in the wrist and shoulder. Each moment
it increased in intensity, until the joints at
the wrist, elbow and shoulder seemed to he
embedded in powdered glass. Beads of
perspiration gathered on his forehead, and
ran into his eyes, but the hard clenched jaw
and set face showed no slackening.
At the end of thirty minutes he was suffer-
ing the torture of the damned. What if the
doctor was not at home? He might....
A fantail flycatcher swooped gracefully on
to a twig a few feet away, chattering and
flaunting its tail, peeking at him the while
with first one bright eye and then the other,
as if in mockery. He glared savagely at
the little creature: “No dam’ wonder they
call you ‘cranky Fan’!” he thought. .Vs if
in answer the bird fluttered within a few
inches of his face, and snapped its tiny beak;
then disappeared into the scrub with its cap-
ture, reminding him of tile job on hand.
As he brushed the Hies from the wound
again, he heard a slight movement near him,
and turning his head found himself g£.«»ng
into the cold, beady eyes of a tiger st ate,
three feet away. Mastering the almost over-
whelming impulse to jump to his feet, he
watched the reptile as its head came slowly
from the ground, and the black forked tongue
flickered in and out of a small aperture under
the centre of the evil top lip.
“If you watch a snake it won t move.’
Who was it told him that? If he could only
hold the snake with his eye until the doctor
and Cross came! But, dammit, he wished
it would move and get out of his sight.
Never before had lie noticed the sinister
appearance of a snake's head. There was
a poisonous menace in those slaty green
plates, which he found himself counting until
they ran into one another. Yet there was
a savage beauty in every line of the arched
neck and gracefully curved body.
He noted the overhanging skin above the
yellow, baleful eyes, that gave the reptile
the appearance of frowning, and the wonder-
ful regularity of the flickering flashes of the
black tongue.
A faint humming sound penetrated his
senses. Was lie imagining it? No, it was a
car all right, and it had stopped at the fence.
He dare not take his eyes off that deadly
head, but lie sensed relief, and the realisation
caused him to move his foot slightly.
Instantly the shovel-shaped head flattened
out, the arched neck puffed; there was a
hardly-perceptible contraction in the muscles
of the glistening brown and yellow body, then
a flash forward like the flick of a wliip-lash,
and the fangs strick his boot as it jerked
into the air, and descended again on the neck
a foot behind the flattened head, which turned
and struck viciously once, twice, above the
boot-top; and hung on.
The injured man came out of his doze and
jerked himself into a sitting position.
“Good God !” he gasped. “Yer bit!”
“Keep still! I’ve got the now;
if I let him go he might get you yet!” gritted
the Digger through his teeth. He screwed
the heavy hobnailed hoot towards the venom-
ous head, and tore the fangs away from his
leg, crushing the snake’s head to a pulp as
the doctor and the messenger arrived.
“Doctor,” yelled Wallen, “look after ’im!
He's bit. Th’ dam’ thing bit ’im, an’ hung
on like a bulldog!”
“Here, Doc.,” interrupted Smith in a faint
voice, “grab this bloke’s foot. I feel a bit
shaky.”
“But —but,” stammered the doctor staring
in horror at the thrashing body of the snake,
“didn’t it bite you?”
“Yes, he bit me twice, but he came nine
years too late to hurt me on that leg.”
responded the Digger, as he pulled up his
trouser-leg and displayed a limb that was cork
from the knee down.
TARGO.
The Wiles of the Serpent.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
MR. DOBBIN came in wearily and
flopped into an easy chair. He said
that lie had had a hard day at the
office.
Mrs. Dobbin looked at him keenly. Years
of experience had taught her to dissemble
judiciously. That afternoon she had been
rung up by a friend who had two spare
tickets for a play she particularly wanted
to see. She had had a nice afternoon nap
and was dying to go.
“Thank Heaven,” said her husband, “that
I don’t have to go anywhere to-night! I
wouldn’t be dragged away from the fire for
all the tea in China.”
Mrs. Dobbin looked at him earnestly.
“You poor thing!” she exclaimed. “You
need a little stimulant.”
In a moment she had poured him out a
man’s dose.
Then they sat down to dinner, where she
found an excuse for repeating the stimu-
lant.
“Do you know,” said Dobbin, over bis
coffee, “1 feel much more like myself? Per-
haps, after all. it wouldn’t be a bad idea to
go out somewhere this evening.”
Mrs. Dobbin smiled triumphantly. The
moment had arrived.
“Oh, I’m so glad!” she exclaimed. “Of
course, I wouldn’t have spoken of it, but the
Bunkers want us to go with them to the
theatre to-night. Mrs. Bunker rang up to
say they had two tickets to spare.”
Dobbin looked at his wife anxiously.
“You didn't tell them that we would go,
did you, Maud?” he asked.
“Oh, no. But that will be all right. I'll
ring them up straight away.”
Her husband rose to liis feet.
“No, deal’,” he said hastily, “don’t do it,
please. Do you know, those two little drinks
and your excellent cooking, my dear, have
put me in just the right mood for an evening
with the boys at the club.”
LES ROBINSON.


“Bulletin” Service Coupon
28/41’27.
NAME AND ADDRESS
(for office use only)
Mr., Mrs. or Miss
Cut this out and send with your “Want” to “Service Department, 1
Bulletin office, Sydney or Melbourne.
I
2KS
sdfsd
FOR ALL
EMERGENCIES-
.NEVER FAIL
fsdf
Look for th* Trademark I Agrnu Ewiyolwn.
Write foe Illustrated Catalogue.
The Ever-Ready Co. (Gt. Britain) Ltd.
163 Pitt Street, Sydney
sdf
sdf
The TOP-NOTCH’SeotcM*
M3UAA*BS
2ft
fleadyinamoment
i always hatle
sdf
in the hone
‘ it is so handy
In 4 sizes
of all Chemists & Stores
Our Service Department
This page is set apart for the service of Bulletin readers.
If you want anything, including information, you are invited to write to the
Service Department.
The service is entirely free. All you have to do is to attach the coupon irom the
last Bulletin to hand.
Readers obliging with replies need not attach coupons.
The right of selection and rejection is reserved.
Wants.
(Replies should be sent to the number
set against the “Want,” c/o Service
Department, BULLETIN.)
To let for six or twelve months, a big, very
well-furnislied Sydney home, large grounds,
tastefully laid out. Splendid harbor views.
Never previously let; owner going on a
holiday to' England. To approved tenant,
£l2/12/- per week. —No. T>9.
Position as clerk to merchant in any of
the islands in the Pacific. Worked as a
clerk in England for four years.—No. 67.
Clerical work on a cattle or sheep station,
in North-Western Queensland preferred, by
very experienced accountant. —No. 76.
An orcliardist or cocky who would offer
a home and at least 30/- for the services of
an Englishman (ex), 30, fit, single. Five
years’ Australian experience. Guarantee any
square fellow a fair go. Can work a team;
and am generally useful. —No. 74.
Position on station as book-keeper. Am
20, temperate, fit, used to country, and four
years’ Bank service (Vic.). —No. 73.
Job as manager of station, the larger the
better, in N.S.W. or Queensland. Life ex-
perience of pastoral industry and upwards of
20 years as manager of important stations in
both States. References from owners and
business firms. Married, with daughter cap-
able of keeping station books.—-No. 71.
Address of Harold Barrington, formerly of
Broken Hill (N.S.W.). His daughter asks.
—No. 65.
Collie or kelpie male pup, UjJider six
months.—No. 60.
Will any ski-ing enthusiast living near
the Vie. snow-fields accept me as a paying
guest for the first fortnight in August this
year?—No. SS.
Single man, diploma Dookie (Vic.), ex-
perienced vet., able keep books, seeks en-
gagement.—No. 57.
Job on station by accountancy student, 18,
with good experience of office work. Refer-
ences. Willing to work hard. —No. 55.
Bulldog pup.—No. 50.
Position as sheep station manager. Have
been a manager for six years on two well-
known N.S.W. properties. Excellent refer-
ences, 35; in the business all my life.
—No. 49.
Position as head gardener or well-
experienced gardener in or near Sydney. Have
gained over 35 first prizes and special cham-
pions for flowers and vegetables. Married,
two children; like a position where a cottage
is provided. At present in Queensland.
—No. 53.
I ■ have some relatives in N.Z. whom I’d
like to reach. The last address that I know
of was Sheffield, Canterbury. Surname,
Bell; Christian names, John, Thomas,
Walter, Hannah, Margaret, the last
named Mrs. McQueen. —No. 41.
A cheap steam boiler of 50 to 80 h.p.;
there are many corroding on old minefields,
etc. One of your readers ma’- know of one
—two guineas reward for information if
purenase results. —No. 79.
Address of ex-private J. D, A. Goodall,
formerly 19th and 28th battalions. —No. 81.
To sell for £lOO0 —a well-built factory on
two acres of ground, with complete ice-
making and rabbit freezing plant, in pros-
perous N.S.W. country town. Outfit cost
about £4660 originally.—No. 82.
Job, boundary-rider or farmhand; can do
almost anything on the land.—No. 86.
Opening in advertising and publicity-
drawing office; young man, 26, good refer-
ences. Full of ambition. —No. 84.
Young man, 28. who has lost a leg, wants
a chance. Clerical job, time-keeping, etc.
—No. 62.
Information Sought.
Gan you give me information as to value
and separation method, if any, of the black
sands of Byron Bay (N.S.W,)? —No. 54.
Deposits of black sands exist on many
coasts bordering the Pacific. In no case
that we know of have they been exploited
successfully. Patches of Byron Bay black
sands have yielded temporarily both profit-
able and unprofitable returns to working
miners, but up to date nothing to warrant
operations on a large scale has been brought
to light.
Is “Kaleala” an abo. word, and what
does it mean? I understand “Caloola ” means
“to climb.” Also what is the abo. for “little
flower”? —No. 66.
“Kaloola” and “Kallalia” both mean
“hot,”. “Caloola” (N.S.W.) means “to
climb.” No abo. word for “little flower”
can be traced, but “Bullowa,” “Bunwin”
and “Woodyerabin” mean “a flower.” “Gir-
rahween” is “the place of flowers.”
My husband has been a resident of the
U.S.A. for eight years. We are both South
Australians and were married in this State.
(./) Can I sue for divorce in any other State
of Australia? (2) If so, how long would I
have to reside in such State? (3) If he is
Americanised would that make any differ-
ence? (If) Would I have to go to America
to divorce him? (5) What would be the
cost of such action in Australia (approxi-
mately) ? —No. 63.
The statutory requirements in N. S. Wales
are —(1) Domicile in the State for three
years and upwards—without having resorted
to the State for the purposes of the divorce.
(2) .Wilful desertion by the husband with-
out just cause or excuse for a continuous
period of three years and upwards. The
Court has power ,to divorce a husband who
has abandoned his domicile in N.S.W. and
acquired a foreign domicile. The law in
the other States follows broadly on these
lines, but you should make local inquiry
from the Court officials. It is impossible to
forecast costs.
I contemplate the purchase of a house in
an outer suburb of Melbourne on the terms
of deposit and balance payable at a weekly
rental. What would my legal position be
in the event of (l) death 'of the owner;
(2) insolvency of the owner; (3) mortgage
by the owner, who is subsequently sold up?
—No. 56.
Don t think of entering into the contract
without t'>.e assistance of a solicitor who
has specialised in that work.
What year and where teas Ned Kelly cap-
tured? What year was he hanged?—No. 77.
Captured Glenrowan (Vic.) on June 21),
1880, hanged on November 11 of the same
year.
The words of two short poems, “Sea
Fever" and “Ode to Beauty,” by Masefield.
—No. 70.
Replies may be sent direct to “A.J.,” 3
Carrington-street, Lewisham, N.S.W.
What methods are used to comply with
the Sludge Abatement Act of Victoria when
cleaning up ivorked creek beds? Ordinary
sluice-box to be used, and no new ground
to be worked. Does the fact of there being
an irrigation reservoir twenty miles lower
down prevent one from working the creek
for dll time? —No. 25.
What is the method of promotion in the
N.S.W. Police Force? Is it by seniority
alone, as I am told? —No. 30.
No. Seniority is a factor, but where a
man shows exceptional ability, or where lie
fails to meet all the requirements of the
post, seniority will not operate against or
for him, as the case may be.
I received a circular from the makers of
“Old Court” whisky offering to supply two
bottles of their whisky, packed and posted,
at a certain price. I have lost their circular,
but would like to test an Australian whisky.
Who are they? —No. 51.
Federal Distilleries Pty., Ltd., Rouse-
street, Port Melbourne (Vic.).
After seven years’ farming, I must, I’m
told, give it up—too strenuous. So I find
myself without a career or position at 21.
I cannot be apprenticed, and in most clerical
jobs juniors are required. Am familiar with
farming in nearly all its branches, and find
it hard to relinquish it. What can I do? —
No. 61.
I want to become an advertising specialist.
I have the means to go to America later on
for any special training required. What do
I do first?— No. 45.
Obtain a clerical position with a pro-
gressive advertising agency; the advertising
course of one of the big correspondence
schools will help. The next step will be
some art classes. By that time you will know
what branch of the business you will practise-
No standard rates of pay.
I applied for 200 £1 shares in a cash-order
co., Ltd. In the event of the co. going into
liquidation am I liable for any amount in
excess of the £2OO? —No. 87.
No.
Information Supplied.
No. 13.—The Lord Commissioners of the
Admiralty issued a warrant in 1908, as desired
by the then Federal Parliament, authorising the
substitution of a seven-pointed star for the
old six-pointer in the Red Ensign flown by
vessels registered in Australia. The design
of the corresponding star on the Blue Ensign
and in the G.-G.’s badge was also similarly
amended. Six points of this big star, which
should point direct to the centre of the St.
George’s Cross in the Union Jack, symbolise
the federated States and the extra one the
Commonwealth territories. The five smaller
white stars in the fly of the flag represent
the Southern Cross. The six stars do not
represent the six States, as is popularly
supposed.—W.E.F.
Business, Robbery, etc.
“Weaver”: “C.Q.” (B. 7/4/’27) heralds
a pioneer effort in Vic. to weave towels, and
says that the raw material will still have
to journey to England to be returned as yarn.
But George A. Bonds have for quite a time
been spinning Australian cotton into towel
yarn, and weaving it into the labelled
article, in N. S. Wales.
* * * *
Maoriland's latest marketing board is one
set up by the Government to control the
trade in kauri-gum, the digging of which
is a fairly important industry in the Wai-
kato. The Government buys a percentage of
the output each year, as a means of helping
to stabilise the market, but so far there has
been no attempt to commandeer gum or nx
prices. Instead the board devotes itself to
seeing the diggers get a fair deal from the
buyers, most of whom act for, or sell to,
varnisli-making concerns.
* * * *
“H.H.” : One of the activities of the Mel-
bourne Business Agents’ Association is to
keep an eye on fraudulent peddlers of allot-
ments. As a result bogus land-agents
assaulted the secretary in his own office and
nearly hacked off one ear with a knuckle-
duster. The land thug is spreading out. and
stories are told about threats of violence
levelled at the lonesome housewife unless
she signs the contract to buy some rocks
and sand in parts unknown. Something
ought to be done about it promptly. Only
licensed hawkers should be employable in the
business, for a start.
"YVollard : The Speck is reaching out
after tourists. Last year £500,000 was taken
into the island by holiday-makers, and the
traffic is increasing. On an average morn
than 400 people left Melbourne daily for
the Speck for several months in the year
The Tourist Bureau is endeavoring to get
a better steamer service, and the Federal
Public Accounts Committee will take evi-
dence on the subject in July.
* * * .
“Clerk": Vic. Railway Department is build-
ing, it claims, the highest bridge in Aus-
tralia —over the Maribyrnong River, not -’ll
miles from Melbourne. The causeway will
be 180 feet high, and is part of a scheme for
providing the environs of Melbourne with a
goods-line network that will relieve the con-
gestion in the Melbourne yards. Of the
£452.000 to be expended on the 71 miles of
track, nearly half is to go in bridges.
* * * *
A persistent inventor is 11. C. Baquie, a
Victorian, who went to London with an
introduction from the Defence Department to
place a pneumatic wheel for artillery trans-
port before the War Office. He has been
working on the thing for 15 years, and he
has got his reward in a promise from the
English authorities to test it. Incidentally.
Baquie has also a more peaceful notion in
his notebook. It is a gadget for giving an
extra twist to Jacobean table-legs.
* * * *
“Centurion”: British shipbuilding, over
which so many tears have lately been shed,
is still alive. The first quarterly return for
the year gave 1,216,000 tons under construc-
tion in Britain and North Ireland, or 456,0(H)
tons better than the figures shown on Decem-
ber 31 last. The tonnage actually begun this
year was 579,000 tons —a big jump from tm
152,000 tons of the last quarter in 1926. The
shipbuilding in other countries totalled
1,352,000 tons.
* * * *
“Mort” : Death of Fred Green, chairman of
several Australian companies, and one of the
founders of the Orient Steam Navigation
Co., brings up memories. It was in 187!)
that the firm of R. and 11. Green and Co.,
whose shipyard, dating back to 1612, boasts
of being the oldest in the Cold Country, allied
with Anderson’s to form the Orient Co.
Their first ship was the Orient, a vessel of
5400 tons gross, in those days considered a
leviathan. The line’s most recent additions
are four vessels of 20,000 tons.
* * * #
“K.P.8.”: The tariff indisputably needs
revision as regards replacement parts for
motor-cars (B. 31/3/’2f). Although very
few cars are wholly constructed by one fac-
tory, American manufacturers are enforciug
the clause in their agents’ contracts which
stipulates that only genuine factory-supplied
parts are to be sold by them. Another means
of preserving their trade is by fixing the
Australian wholesale price for their parts
(departure from which means losing the
agency) at a figure no higher than the
cost of the raw material in Australia.
There is no doubt about the high quality of
the local article, and the retention of the
parts industry is vital to Australia, but un-
less the Tariff Board acts soon it will go
to the wall.
* * # *
“Gougelr”: Owing to a revived icraze
abroad, tortoiseshell has been selling at £7
the pound weight. The back of the hawks-
bill turtle comprises 13 main pieces of com-
mercially valuable shell, and a good speci-
men will yield 51b., all saleable. The
primest shell is taken from the male. He
rarely comes ashore, but is harpooned by
natives and the crews of beche-de-mer
boats. The shell is often buried until the
flesh softens and decays. A quicker method
is to steam it, or throw a bag over the shell
and then pour boiling water over the bag.
the loosened shell flakes can then be detached
by a knife. I’ve seen fancy cigarette-holders
and hatpins made out of the discarded claws.
The “hoof” and belly plates could also be
utilised for ornaments, but in our wasteful
Australian fashion we throw all but the
finest plates away.
* * * *
“Robbo”: “Murkah” (B. 27/l/’27) con-
temptuously dismisses submarine cables as
“a communication system which can be
fished up and snapped or tapped by
any world-wanderer.” Apart from the im-
probability of any world-wanderer having
the necessary appliances, does “Murkah
realise that, even with specially-designed
ships and gear, it sometimes takes days or
weeks to locate and pick up a cable some
of them lie 2000 fathoms deep? In any case
every important route is duplicated or tripli-
cated, besides there being alternative routes,
so that cutting one or _ two cables won Id
not do more than cause inconvenience. Dur-
ing the late war the Fanning Islam.*
Vancouver and C-ocos-Perth cables were bot.i
cut (practically on the beach, so that any
wireless installation would have been equally
defenceless), but Australia was hardly enr
inconvenienced. As for the fighting nat,<>’>
showing “what they thought of the cable-
radio argument,” if “Murkah” had toiled
through the silent watches of the night i
the cable service he would know which sys-
tem the fighting nations preferred.


□ <
a*
i
l
V
\
\
m
(/ .
4'
Service!
Graham Brothers Trucks, Com-
mercial Cars and Buses are built
so simply and so ruggedly that
they need little attention.
But service is always right at hand
when needed. There are no long
delays waiting for repair parts.
Complete stocks of genuine parts
are carried.
Graham Brothers repair parts are
manufactured with the same skill
and care and high-grade materials
as the trucks themselves.
Graham Brothers Trucks are built
for dependable transportation, and
every facility is at hand to keep
them at work.
Qraham Brothers Trucks and Commercial Cars
meet 91 °/ 0 of all hauling requirements.
f-Ton Chassis, £260; 1-Ton Chassis, £325;
1 2 -Ton Chassis, £445; 2-Ton Chassis, £485.
Way mouth Motor Co., Ltd.,
42-48 Waymouth Street,
Adelaide.
Austral Motors, Ltd.,
Brisbane and Townsville,
The Standardised Motors, Ltd.,
252 Castlereagh Street,
Sydney.
Canada Cycle & Motor Co. (Victoria) Pty., Ltd.,
352-58 Latrobe Street,
Melbourne.
Winterbottom Motor Co., Ltd.,
199 St. George’s Terrace,
Perth.
Graham Brothers
Trucks
BUILT BY TRUCK DIVISION OF DODGE BROTHERS, INC.
SOLD BY DODGE BROTHERS
DEALERS EVERYWHERE
28/4/’27.


Details which help
to make B.S.A. value
Prices from
£57/10/-
sdf
Easy Payment
TERMS
IF DESIRED
B.S.A. 4.93-h.p. Motor Bicycle
•yHERE are many details in a motor cycle which are not always visible, but
*■ which are of vital importance to the life and reliability of the machine —
and it is by details you should judge value.
Quality in all the details is the standard set for B.S.A. Motor Bicycles. For
example—Finest quality weldless steel tubing for the frame, with drop-forged
lugs at every vital point. Connecting rods of high-tensile, fatigue-resisting
alloy steel. Valve springs that do not lose their temper through overheating.
Constant mesh gearbox—foolproof change.
Details all —but real reasons why B.S.A. Motor Bicycles lead the way in
length of service, in value and in popularity.
on a
the way
BSA
Send for Catalogue and particulars of Easy Payment Terms
AUSTRALIAN DISTRIBUTING AGENTS:
N.S.W. } BENNETT & WOOD, LTD.,
Q’LANDj 284 Pitt Street, Sydney.
VICTORIA- F/WZ.VI Y BROS. MOTOR CYCLES
PTY., LTD.,
322 Elizabeth Street, Melbourne .
SOUTH AUS.-«/. N. TAYLOR & CO., LTD.,
121 Grenfell Street, Adelaide „
WEST AUS.— MORTLOCK BROS., LTD.,
890 Hay Street, Perth.
TASMANIA -sim king pty., ltd.,
63 Brisbane Street, Launceston.
B.S.A. Sub-Agents Throughout Australia.
D. Y. RENNIE ( Factory Representative), 49 ELIZABETH STREET, MELBOURNE.


SHOE STORES
ow for Men u/ho Care ~
1
POST FREE
sdf
Men's HaUannald
Calf Shoe, circular
Vamp, mock, caps ~
calf lined; also in,
tan calf and patent
colt.
249 PITT ST Opp. Tatters all's Club -
Welcome the Coming-Speed the Parting Guest with
RESCH’S
LAGER, DINNER ALE,
PILSENER & STOUT
AUSTRALIA’S BEST BITTER,
RESCH’S BITTER ALE,
Ask for Them by Name—Keep in a Cool Spot.
Western Australian Distributors:
BURNS, PH I Ll* & CO., LTD., PERTH AND GER A LUTON.
SPORTING
NOTIONS
amita (25 to 33 to 1), Johnnie Jones (33
to 1), and Tibbie (50 to 1), but for nothing
else. ......
Piastoon, who had No. T 7 marble, was
not well served at the start, but he was
soon in a good position behind the 100-to-l
chance Gegla and Heroic, whom Cairns had
induced to leave with unwonted briskness.
Passing the public grandstand,, Davidson
let Piastoon go to the front, and nothing
ever passed him afterwards. At the mile
post the Queensland horse had Wioolita
(100 to 1), Heroic, Firefly (100 to 1),
Valamita and Limerick for attendants; at
the six furlongs Limerick had moved up
and Battlement briefly came into the pic-
ture ; at the half-mile Bunkie was second.
Heroic third and Limerick fourth. Lud-
denliam was the first to throw out a real
challenge to the leader, but he soon fell back
beaten, and Piastoon, increasing the gap as
lie approached the home turn, sailed into
the straight with a good lead. There were
cries of “Limerick! Limerick!” as the
Maori!and gelding came with a gallant run,
and at the leger stand the favorite had got
to within a neck of the leader, who had the
rails always. But Piastoon finished the
better of tlie pair. and. drawing away again,
won a grand race by three-quarters of a
length. Tibbie finished well in third place,
a head behind Limerick: Imitator was a
good fourth, Bacchus fifth, Johnnie Jones.
Tookarby. Count Cavour and Naos next,
and Valamita last. The time was Jniin.
33 if sec. —not great, even .when the going
is taken into consideration, hut Piastoon
could evidently have gone another mile at
the same gait and won even more com-
fortably
Piastoon is owned by R. H. Edkins, a
Queensland pastoralist, who bought him as a
Under the Whip
The A.J.C.’s gamble against the cyclone
came off on Saturday, when the Sydney Cup
was run in perfect autumn weather and in
the presence of 70,000 people-—not so many
as would have been there on a fine Easter
Monday but, in the circumstances, a very
satisfactory crowd. More rain had fallen
n Friday, but not enough to leave sheets
i f water on the track—the spectacle which
prompted the committee to postpone on Easter
Saturday and to cancel the arrangements
made for holding the Cup race on Wednes-
day—though the going was undeniably soft.
So much so that it took Persuasion (7 to
2) lmin. 16sec. to get to the end of six
furlongs in the Flying Handicap, which,
ridden in Pike’s finest style, she won by
a neck from Lile Queen (8 to 1). And there
was no loafing on the journey, for Persua-
sion’s speedy stable-companion, Bairn (20
to 1), who finished third, saw to the pace.
When the going is good either of these bril-
liant mares can do six in 1.12 with no
great difficulty. The seven furlongs of the
Easter Stakes, moreover, occupied lmin.
20|sec. First prize in this youngsters’ race
went to J. S. Brunton through the agency
of Jocelyn (10 to 1), a black filly by Rossen-
dale out of that good marc Maltine, who
has hitherto thrown nothing in her own
class; Ascalon (8 to 1), in the same stable
(Kelso’s) as Persuasion, was a good second
and Prime Don (9 to 2) third.
After his St. Leger victory Limerick was
a decided favorite for the Cup, and
there was such a rush for him on the course
that he closed at 9 to 2. Bnnkio was next
in demand at 13 to 2. a multitude of
backers following the lead of James Wilson
and John Wren ; then came Imitator and
l.nddenham at 8 to 1 (a point longer in
places), Bacchus, Heroic and Naos follow-
ing at ten's. Heroic's price was a surprise,
considering his inglorious exhibition in the
Autumn Stakes, and the deep hoof-prints
visible to everyone who took the trouble to
walk over to the rails; but perhaps one
should not be surprised at anything on a
racecourse. Tookarby receded to 14 to 1
and Battlement was quoted at two points
bnger. At the clubs The Bttixktin’s
selection, Piastoon, had figured at 40 to 1,
and a little 100 to 3 was available for a
time on the course. Most of tin; book-
makers, however, had him at 25 to 1. and
that was the price returned in the morn-
ing papers on whose quotations the s.p.
gentry pay out. Of the rest of the 18
starters there were a few inquiries for V al-
A BAD MEETING.
ISAACS: “Vot’s all dis aloud you huffin' such a pad dime at Rand riel, Solly?’
SOLLY (bookmaker): “Rad? I should sap it was pad! I bromised der wife a tiamont
neckliss an’ a drip to Enrobe after der meed in'"
ISAACS: "Yes, yes!"
SOLLY: “Veil, she’ll haf to vail for der drip to Enrobe , dot’s rot.”
yearling for 420 guineas; and for Edkins,
who bets in only a mild way, he has
earned £12.040 and two; gold cups—Satur-
day's money prize ran to £5158. He is trained
by Kelso, who produced him in first-class con-
dition, though sweeter on his own horse
Bacchus, and Kelso’s work was completed by
Davidson, who. albeit still an apprentice,
showed that ho had nothing to learn about
the difficult art of riding a waiting race m
front. By the 1912 Melbourne Cup winner
Piastre out of Zaratoon. Piastoon traces back
to St. Simon on the sire's side and to Musket
on the dam's; and it is a great cross, as
lias been shown on many occasions. Seeing
that he is bred to stay, had already won a
two-mile Cup. had shown good form within
the past month and had the services of the
leading N.S.W. trainer and jockey, it
remarkable that lie should have been allowed
to go out at such a long price. This Page
formed the opinion that he was a Sydney
Cup horse after his capital performances at
Randwick in January, when half lit, and
never wavered in its allegiance. There is a
lot of luck in the tipping business, and luck
was against The Bulletin when Naos, its
33-to-l choice, .ran second in the Melbourne
Cup. But Piastoon’s victory is ample con-
solation.^
Thus far the Victorians were having a
very rough spin, but a Vic. colt in Cannon
(8 to 1), ridden by Cairns, the Vic. rival
to Pike, won a Nursery Handicap very
nicely, soon disposing of Sion (2 to 1),
heavily backed by Moss, when it came to
serious business. And Cairns did well to
get a £IOOO race, the High weight Handicap,
out of Royal Sun (7 to 1) ; still, if Cool-
gong (12 to 1) hadn’t been blocked when
making his run there would have been no
Royal Sun, nor would Cumerlong (10 to 1)
have split the pair.
Following w.f.a. form, if anyone is fool
enough to do it, has been a heart-breaking
business this season. Within a year Vali-
care and ’fop Callant. have twice beaten
Fuji San in mile w.f.a. races, but in the
All-Aged Stakes, run over the same distance
on Tuesday, he beat them. Moreover, he
did it easily; Top Gallant was two lengths
behind .V. ,T. Matthews's big gelding;
Amounis was another two or three lengths
away; Valicare —favorite again—was fourth
and Metellus last; the time was Irnin.
38'fsec. Fuji San’s success, for which Pike's
riding was, in a measure, responsible, was
anticipated by the stable but not by the
public; he went out at 7 to 2. Coolgong
(12 to 1) conquered a big field in the Coogee
Handicap, nine furlongs; and 14 to 1 (nearly
Si to 1 on the totet was a good price, seeing
how well he had run on the Saturday. The
Valais —Military Cross mare Bravery made
a good fight of it with the massive chestnut,
and Windbag’s brother Bicolor was a decent
third his best race to date. Royal Feast's
supporters got a shock when Cannon (X
to 1), with I.olb. the better of the weights,
overcame him in the Champagne Stakes, ami
so did the Heroic crowd when their erratic
chestnut failed in the Cumberland Stakes,
which went to that good, but not great, tliree-
year-old, Limerick (evens).
The V.R.C. had tolerable weather and a
great attendance at Flemington for its King s
Cup meeting: the attendance included people
who look on racing as a mug's game, hut
took the opportunity of seeing the Yorks
at close quarters. There were 10 starters
for the King's Cup, which carried a £1250
stake as well as (.gorge V.’s gift, which is
valued at £IOO. and the betting took a very
wide turn. When business ceased Spear
Maiden. Bullline and Three Kings were co-
favorites at 0 to 1. Eridanus and Bombard
next at 7 to 1, Smoke Bomb (whom Duncan
had come back from Sydney to ride) and
Accarak at 12 to 1, Thracian and Duck-
shot at 14 to 1, and the others from 20 to
to 3. Llanthony (20 to 1) led out of the
straight at a smart pace and was still in
charge six furlongs from home, being a length
and a half clear of Duckshot, with Spear
Maiden next and Smoke Bomb, Longwortliy
and Lady Tattler nearest of the others:
Buffline, Eridanus and Bombard were a
long way back. As the field turned for home
at least eight horses looked to have chances,
but once in the straight Spear Maiden went
away from the field, and, despite the great
finishing runs of Eridanus and Bombard,
the Spearhead—Snow Song mare won well
by half a length from Eridanus, with Bom-
bard a neck away. Bombard got a rotten
passage and was the unlucky horse of the
race. Spearer was fourth.
Spear Maiden is owned and trained by
the astute Billy Leyshon, and was ridden
by little Fullarton. She has improved out
of sight in the last few months, and has
been consistency itself, winning four rao<*«
out of her last six starts. With 7st. 51b.
on her back she covered the distance in the
good time of 2min. .'!2{sec.
In the Duke of York Stakes, run down
the straight six, Quintus was favorite at 7
to 2, with Lady Thrill next at 5 to 1 and
Trey lon and Margaux at <! to 1. The win-
ner, however, was one of the long-priced divi-
sion, the three-year-old Kenilworth gelding
Ilawick (12 to 1); he landed a good race
by a neck from David Garrick (15 to 1).
witli Treylon third. In the Canberra Welter
punters, who had been faring badly, went
for a recovery on Hawick's stable-mate
Klang (7 to 2), on whom Duncan had the
mount. The favorite was in front at the
distance, but both Bed Sea (5 to 1) and
Pentola ((i to 1) beat him home. O'Dwyer's
Red Dennis gelding winning by a long neck.
Bowalla, a gelded son of Bowman —Blanche
Florence, who raced in Sydney last season,
won a Welter at the 8. Australian Tatter
sail’s meeting on Saturday and returned £l2
for £1 on the machine, which declared two
dividends. He never returned anything like
that price in Sydney, where he was a great
pet of suburban tote punters. Samoan, the
Lilyveil gelding who was also an inmate
of a Randwick stable —Dan Lewis’s —was a
popular fancy for S.A. Tatt.’s Cup, for which
the club gave £2OOO in prize-money, and
finished a close third. J. 11. Flannargan.
whose burly figure is familiar on the race-
courses of at least four mainland capitals,
collected the big money through the agency
of Frilford, a five-year-old chestnut stallion
by Swynford—-Nicely; imported, of course.
Ridden by 11. McKenna, who comes from
Westralia, Frilford won, running away, in
,‘’.min. 28sec. for the two miles. His div.
for £1 was £ll 18s.; Kellidle, the second
horse, earned his backers £7 7s.
']'■ & ❖
“Amateur TJrger”: Kcdron Park races,
which periodically occur in a remote Bris-
bane suburb, have some features unusual
elsewhere. For instance, it is nothing out
of the way for the stewards, after the bel-
ting on a prad or prads has been doing the
jumping-jack act, to hasten to the post and
there address moral homilies to the riders
of horses with fever-chart betting fluctua-
tions. Sometimes they send the steeds and
their steersmen back from the barrier in
addition to handing out disqualifications.
The value of a word in season appears in
the case of a nag called (lift Gun (delightful
name!), which recently opened at evens for
his race. After minor variations, he went
out co-favorite with Lee Town at 5 to 2.
It was then that the stewards interviewed
Gift Gun and his rider at the harrier, with
the result that the intelligent and conscience-
stricken animal “took charge approaching
Ihe straight, and was never headed,” to
quote a local report.
* * s *
The Sydney yearling sales found buyers
.of fashionable stock shyer than last year,
when Valicare's brother brought 5500gns.
Yaals’s brother 4100gns., Belgamba's half-
brother 3800gns., a Valais —Orvietta filly
MOOOgns, and one by Valais —Girilah 2400
gns. Of this lot only the Valais —Bunco colt,
now racing as Glenariff, gives promise of
doing anything out of the w r ay, and he has
disappointed in li is last three races. The
highest price of the 1027 sales, 5000gns..
was given for a Valais colt out of Glittering
Gold: dames Scobie. the veteran Victorian
trainer, called the final bid. A full-brother
to Rampion (Rossendale— Royal Pet) was
passed in by the Brians at “.OOOgns. They
must have a very high opinion of him ; last
year they let a sister to Rampion go at
l.jOOgns. A Crowdennis colt brought Nor-
man Falkiner in IMOOgns., while UOOgns.
was given for a stylish colt by Mountain
King—Lais. The Magpies sold pretty well,
though not so well as in former years, and
the defunct Claro’s progeny also realised
satisfactory prices, but there was no great
.(Continued on page .)/.)
BALLADE OF INEVITABILITY.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“The ring claims to have lost heavily over Don
.Moon’s Doncaster win, though he started at 12 to 1.”
Yon never can tell how the luck pans out
Till you’ve been in the game a goodish
while,
And tried your mettle in many a bout
With bagmen, ranged in vociferous file.
Kut you'll need a poultice of nerve and
guile
To beat, the lads with tins rod-ruled tome
Who book your bets with an urbane
smile—
It’s layin’ ’em brings the bacon home.
Sometimes, maybe, you'll have handed a clout
To the Ring, in spite of its endless wile.
That, as they say in Lancashire's, "nowt" —
You've not yet finished, by many a mile.
Though you may throw in the air your
tile,
The time will come when your pockets they'll
comb.
Sooner or later they’ll lighten your pile.
It's layin’ cm’ brings the bacon home.
At last, when you're sure you’re a cute old
scout,
The mob'll get busy to cramp your style ;
They'll put. your cleverest plans to rout;
They’ll get your goat, and they'll stir your
bile. '
Calamity, grim as a crocodile,
Will lay you as fiat as an aerodrome,
And cheap as the stockings the girls cal)
“lisle.”
It’s layin' ’em brings the bacon home.
Envoy.
Mugs, it is useless to rave or revile,
For punters’ winnings are lighter than
foam.
You’re up against this, though the thought
may rile:
It’s layin’ em’ brings the bacon home.
N.s.w.
J. B. H.


COMPARISON LEADS YOU TO
CHRYSLER “50”
Compared with the other cars of large production in
the four-cylinder field, it is exceedingly easy to recog-
nize the outstanding values of the Chrysler “50” and
decide which car to buy.
In point of comfort and roominess, beauty of design,
beauty of finish, power, long life and economy, the
Chrysler “50” stands out unmistakably as the greatest
offering ever made in four-cylinder cars.
At last it is possible for you to make a convincing and con-
clusive comparison of values and satisfy yourself almost
at a glance in which car you should invest your money.
Chrysler Standardised Quality is a fixed and inflexible
quality standard which enforces the same scrupulously
close limits —the same rigid rule of engineering ex-
actness—the same absolute accuracy and precision of
alignment and assemblage—in the measurement,
the machining and manufacturing of every part,
practice and process in four lines of Chrysler cars.
A
u
CH RYSLE
BUILT AS ONLY CHIkYSLEK BUILDS
//
AUSTRALASIAN DISTRIBUTORS:
N.S. W.: Larke Neave & Carter Ltd. Grenville House, William Street Sydney
Vtc.: Collins Motors Pty. Ltd., Chrysler House, Collins Street. Melbourne.
Old.: Ward Motors Limited, Wickham Street. Brisbane.
Sth. Aust.: O. T. Rodda Motors Ltd.. Flinders Street, Adelaida
West. Aust.: William Attuiooti, 299-301 Murray Street, Perth.
Tbs.; Chrysler Motor Co. Pty. Ltd., Hobart and Launceston.
N.Z.: Todd Motor Company. 97 Courtenay Place. Wellington,
PA B.


Dalgety & Company
Limited.
NEW SHARE ISSUE.
pHE Transfer Books will be closed from
tlic 29th April to the 13tli May next,
inclusive, preparatory to the issue of Allot-
ment Letters in connection with the new
share issue.
M. R. MACRAE, Manager.
“The Woman’s Mirror”
Published every Tuesday
PRICE 3d.
It deals with every subject of
interest to women.
Next Week’s “Bulletin”
“On Our Selection”
A NEW STEELE RUDD STORY:
“Dad and the Duke”
Steele Rudd Never Wrote a Better One.
ACCURATE SHOOTING
with a
COLT .22 CAL. AUTOMATIC
PISTOL.
Perfectly balanced; files 10 ordinary .22 Cal.
long-rifle rim-fire cartridges as fast as you can
pull the trigger for each shot. This model has
proved most useful to sportsmen requiring a
handy weapon of highest quality tiring a
standard cartridge which is both economical
and easy to procure. Length of barrel fit inches;
length overall JLOi inches; weight 2S ounces.
IDEAL 1011 TARGET SHOOTING -VXD
SMALL GAME, £8 ,10s.
ACCIDENTAL DISCHARGE WITH A COI.T
AUTOMATIC PISTOL IS ABSOLUTELY
IMPOSSIBLE.
CADET RIFLES, Cal. 297/230 Converted Mili-
tary Rifles, Martini Action, 000 yards rawge,
555.
Gun find Cartridge Makers,
1518 Little Collins St.. Melbourne.
Under the v^hip
(Contiv ued. )
demand for Nassaus, Sarchedons, or the
offspring of Chrysolaus. The prejudice
against Australian sires still lingers, and
with no more justification than in the past.
In spite of the remarkable success of Green-
stead’s sons and daughters the best price
paid for a Greenstead youngster—a bay
colt out of Riding Pad, a Paddington mare
—was 575gns.
M.Q. (and Rafferty) Rules
Bill Torrens (lOst. 41b.) received Wallis’s
verdict at the end of a gruelling fifteen-
ronnder with Yankee welter Eddie Smith
(9st. 121b.) at the Sydney Stadium on Satur-
day night. Every round was bitterly con-
tested, and at times it seemed as if Smith's
heavy punches would bring him victory. But
the local boy never gave ground when
attacked, no matter how hard he was hit,
and he scored so cleverly and continually
that Torrens’s title to the decision was inde-
feasible. In the other 15-round affair Joe
Hall (9st. 121b.) repeated his Brisbane vic-
tory over Billy Richards (9st. Bilb.). The
black usually poses as a lightweight:, and
when he boxes as a welter he seems to need
the spells of loafing on his job to which lie
treats himself. He dropped Billy heavily
in the third, and had no difficulty in out-
pointing him during the remaining rounds,
which were mostly dull.
* * * *
.Toe Gonsalvez, pounds heavier at 9st. olb.
than Tommy Swift, turned the tables on
Thomas in the fourteenth round of their
argument in Brisbane on Saturday night.
The lighter man had beeu outpointing the
Filipino when the latter desisted from box-
ing his man and bogged in. The change
of tactics was so effective that Tommy’s
towel came fluttering over the ropes.
* * *
“White Horse”: Mention of Jim Hall’s
defeat by Fitzsimmons (B. 21/4/’27) recalls
Jim's affair with “Starlight” at Foley’s in
the 'eighties. Hall and the black were part-
ners in a gymnasium and were, in a measure,
working in opposition to Larry Foley; in
addition, they had a little “school” on the
side. It was over a fair division of the
proceeds of this seminary that the partners
quarrelled. News of their dispute was
conveyed to the astute Foley, who made it
his business to see “Starlight” and urge him
to fight for his rights. Larry’s next step was
to get hold of Hall; and as James was a
hard drinker, and had a fresh grievance in
the nasty things “Star” had said to him,
after Foley had finished “sympathising,” this
was easy. ’Then one of Larry’s disinterested
friends suggested a fight—of course, at
Foley’s—to settle everything. 'The fight
drew a “capacity” house and provided a
tremendous contest, which was won by the
SAFETY FIRST.
white man. P>ut the pair were bitter enemies
light up to the time that Hall cleared out
to the U.S.A.
Racquet and Bawl
The Victorian tennis reps, are to meet
X.K.W. in Sydney in the second week in
May, and are expected to send a hot side
across. Gerald Patterson was billed to play
in the French championships at St. Cloud
on May 24, but lias decided to stay at home,
and will probably lead the side. N.S.W.
will be experimenting with some of the
young blood, but Crawford and co. will have
to go their hardest to beat the seasoned
southerners. Last year’s meeting of the
States in Melbourne was, in the absence of
J. O. Anderson, N. Peach and Jim Willard
from the N.S.W. side, a walkover for the
Victorians, N.S.W. failing to take a set.
“Cut Shot”: Gerald Patterson’s decision
to retire from tournament tennis will sur-
prise no one who has watched the trend of
tennis events. The recent decision of the
American and British authorities to refuse
the entries, as amateurs, of persons engaged
in making or selling tennis materials has
probably a good deal to do with the Vic-
torian crack’s action. Though nominated
for the Wimbledon and French champion-
ships, Patterson is not competing in them.
He is managing-director in Victoria of a
big overseas firm of sporting-goods makers,
and can hardly avoid the nctv ruling. This
has farcical possibilities, however. Nearly
every big warehouse and outfitting firm in
Australia sells all manner of sporting requi-
sites, in addition to clothing, mercery and
the like. Strictly speaking, every employee
and shareholder in such concerns would come
under the ban. And, of course, there is
hardly a leading tennis player in Australia
who is not connected, in one way or another,
with the marketing of tennis requisites.
Though the N.S.W. tennis team defeated
Queensland by 24 rubbers to 1 in the inter-
state tourney at Sydney, the visitors were
by no means disgraced. The N.S.W. cham-
pion, F. E. Kalins, was vanquished in three
straight sets by E. F. Moon. The country
player was not in his best form, but, even
so, the northern colt played su]>orb tennis,
his service and forehand being exceptionally
accurate and severe. This game took place
at Rushcutter’s Bay, after some of the
earlier singles had been played on hard-
courts at Alexandria, owing to the slippery
conditions at the White City; these were
still evident in the star event. G. R. Wil-
liams, of Barraba, gave an impressive show-
ing on his first appearance as a N.S.W. rep.
The doubles between J. Crawford and H.
Hopman on the one side and Moon and
Don Cameron on the other was a great go,
the Welshmen winning 2-6, 6-2, 7-5.
The Nineteenth Hole
“Voetganger” : The S’African Golf Union
was to have begun its annual championships
last Saturday on the Maccauvlei course at
Vereeniging, where peace was signed in the
second Boer War. The course has taken five
years to construct, and has cost £60,000, so
the Afrikanders evidently believe in doing
themselves well. In earlier days, as Austra-
lian golfers who. have visited S’Africa will
recall, there were difficulties, the sturdy
Hopper objecting to have his land mysteri-
ously invaded, especially on Sunday,
S'Africa’s usual day for sports. The mem-
bers of one newly-formed club at Ivrugers-
dorp. in the Transvaal, went out one Sunday
morning to find their home-made, nine-hole
course a ruin. The antbed greens had been
ploughed up, the bunkers filled in, and big
stakes driven deep into the holes. Later,
when they found the Kaffirs were making
good money at caddying, the burghers
waived their objections, on the understand-
ing that, little Piet, Dirk and the rest of
their offspring should receive preference over
Sixpenny and other sooty bag-carriers.
“Harvey” (London) : Ignorance of Aus-
tralian conditions dies hard
in the Cold Country. Playing
golf with a middle-aged soli-
citor. and doing rather well,
I was asked where I had
learned the game. I told
him. “Australia!” he re-
plied. “I suppose it took
you some time to get used
to our grass fairways.” With
crowding memories of happy
days at Seaton and Kensing-
ton, I said: “Yes; about as
long as it took me to get used
to seeing cattle feeding with-
out nosebags.” Ile was only
politely surprised.
“llotham”: One of Aus-
tralia’s pioneer golf clubs
will say good-bye to its old
home on Saturday, when
the Riversdale club course
at East Camberwell (Yic.)
will be sold for build-
ing allotments. Tlie original
club, known as Surrey Hills, started in a
humble way at Mont Albert, shifting, 20
years ago, to the links just vacated. It
now takes up new quarters at St. John’s
Wood. Only the Royal Melbourne and the
Geelong clubs antedate Riversdale, which is
known far and wide as the golf nursery of
Joe Kirkwood, now in the front rank of
the world's professional players.
■f * * *
“Flog”: The dreariest game to watch? It’s
a dead-heat. I think, between professional
golf and telegraphic chess. There is the same
maddening monotony in the drive from the
tee down the middle of the fairway as in
P to Iv 4 down the middle of the chess-board.
The only redeeming feature in each case is
that the player can smoke. Personally, I
can’t play chess, and my handicap is 24 —IS
or more.
Car and Cycle
“Lytt” : The lads who risk their lives on
two-wheelers, taken all round, are about the
best sports there are. At Maroubra on
Saturday night two American visitors, Eddie
HE HAD QUALIFIED.
PASSENGER: “ Hey! That man’s just fallen off the ’bus.”
COLLECTOR: “’S' a ll right; ’e’s paid ’ees fare.”
Brinck and “Sprouts” Elders, met for a
five-lap go that had been looked forward to
for weeks. To make the thing more interest-
ing, Brinck had dropped the English machine
he had ridden so successfully at earlier meet-
ings and put his leg across the American
single-cylinder mount that is in closest com-
petition with the Yankee contraption bestrid-
den by Elder. When they were nearly four
laps around Elder’s machine got internal
troubles and Brinck finished alone. By all
the rules of the game engine mishaps are
sporting risks, but it wasn’t good enough
for Brinck. He insisted on having the match
over again, and this time Elder won. Inci-
dentally, Brinck had bad luck all through
the meeting. His change-over to an Ameri-
can steed wasn’t at all a success.
*
“Trembler”: Recently the condition of the
road from Brisbane to the watering-place of
Southport became so infernal that eyen the
timber-getters hesitated to risk their logs
on it. Instead of forming a deputation to
chew the Government’s lug, or to persuade
the local shires to squeeze ratepayers harder,
the Q. Royal Auto Club resolved to do the
.job itself —at least, to make the track pass-
able till the promised new deviation has been
completed by the Government. About £SOO
was needed. At latest advices, club members
had thrown in well over £”>00 and were still
busy.
•!* V
“Fool’s Luck”: The latest thing in motor
escapes comes from Queensland. Going all
out along a stretch of gravel road, a driver
forgot a right-angled bend in the track, and
continued his let-’er-rip flight across a stump-
dotted paddock. By some miracle he missed
piling-up on the stumps, though he lost a
passenger, voluntarily or otherwise, on the
journey. Carrying on, the car bolted under
a house, raised, Queensland fashion, on rows
of high, wooden piles, and pulled up at last
in the front garden. Measurements showed
that the car had about two inches’ clearance
on each side from the aisle of stout support-
ing piles through which it bolted.
* * * *
“Feed Fort” : That wail of the tired motor-
ist for an easier method of lubrication (B.
21/4/’27) has already been answered. An
English firm has put a grease-gun on the
market which works with an air-compressor
attachment. The languid one won’t even
have to shove a piston ; by pulling a trigger
he can have the grease forced into the cups—
by proxy, as it were.
* * * *
“Plug”: Reference to the standardisation
of engine design (B. 21/4/’27) is right
'enough, but the possibilities of the internal
combustion motor haven’t all been exploited
yet. There are at least, three Australian
inventors who reckon they have improved on
the four-stroke engine of commerce. W. J.
Wege. of Adelaide, has produced a valveless
two-stroke engine that has made good records
in actual use in a car. M. K. Williamson,
from the same State, has designed the Kaye
engine, based on a little-known geometrical
discovery, which allows piston rods to be run
through stuffing-boxes, keeping the crank-
cases cool and clean. Worry, of Bendigo, is
in the field with a two-pistoued engine which
is claimed to be vibration less, and which has
stood some very
stringent ben c h
tests. The ideal, of
course, is the in-
ternal combustion
rotary or turbine,
but that’s a bit like
using dynamite to
rock a baby’s
cradle.
“L y 11” : The
smallest motor-car
known to commerce
at present is the
Austin “Tiger,”
with a chubby little
4-eyl. engine that is
rated at 7 h.p., and
a body that can
hold the missus and
three kids at a
tight pinch an and
still leave hubby
room to steer. It’s
a lovely little job,
with 4-wheel brakes
and every worth-
while gadget that
can be found on the
most expensive
chariots, and it
doesn’t cost much
more than a lizzie.
Uncle Samuel has
grown jealous, and
is putting into mass
production a rival
of about the same
engine-power bu f
with a 73in. wheel-
base for roadster
and sedan models,
as against the
Austin baby’s 7b
inches. It will
weigh 13001 b. (the
Austin weighs 806ib.), but will fit a rather
smaller tyre. Maximum speed will be 50
m.p.h., whereas the Austin can go 52 m.p.lv.
So far a name hasn’t been fitted to the thing.
* * * -X-
--“Exam.”: One of the things American
visitors to this country can’t understand is
the high price of petrol. On the western
coast of Uncle Sam’s domain, close to the
source, the gas costs about 14 cents a gallon,
and the tank can be filled in N’York at about
20 cents. The stuff that costs 20 cents has
to be freighted through the Panama Canal
for almost as long a stretch as that
between ’Frisco and Sydney, but in Sydney
all the change you get out of two bob a
gallon won’t pay a tram-fare.
Footbrawl
Sydney Rugby League opened its season
on Saturday, and the form shown suggests
that the clubs are not so unevenly matched
as was the case last year. At Sydney Cricket
Ground, Eastern Suburbs, with 11-0 against
them at half-time, gave the premiers, South
Sydney, a great go in the second spin,
South eventually wanning by 17-11. Wear-
ing, on South’s w 7 ing, and Toby, at full-back
for East, gave good displays, the former
Union player particularly. St. George,
greatly improved under Frank Burge’s coach-
ing and leadership, beat University 18-10.
while Glebe chewed up Balmain by 28 to 10,
Hickey, the Reds’ full-back, kicking 8 goals
out of 10 attempts. Newtown had the
best of a rough game against North Sydney,
thanks, to its solider pack: 16-12.
Asa result of the second round on Mon-
day St. George finds itself giddily perched
at the top of the competition table, instead
of in its accustomed possie at the other end.
Its victory over Eastern Suburbs was decisive
(the points were 23 to 7) and says much
for Burge’s coaching personality. Western
Suburbs beat Glebe, 12 —4, in a dreary game
at the Cricket Ground. University downed
North Sydney by 21 —9, the students show 7 -
ing improved form: and Balmain won a
bright and lively game against Newtown by
14—13, thanks mostly to three good goals
from Maizey’s boot.
“Percy Pawnticket”: A man w 7 itli a baby
in his arms and his wife by his side was
a centre of attraction in the smoking-pavilion
during the East-South match. Intensely
excited, he leapt to his feet at each nev
movement, and generally showed that his
whole being was absorbed in the changing
fortunes of the game. It was in one of his
most demonstrative moments that a word
of advice to his w ife came from behind. “Eh.
missus,” it said, “you’d better take the baby
from him or he’ll be starting a passing-rush
with it.”
(Continued on page J/2.)


MW
All the Wonders of the Motor Industry.
Come to Me Cjfeat
INTERNATIONAL
MOTOR/HOW
Continuous
session
11 n.m. to 10.30 p.m
ADMISSION
EIGHT ACRES OF
Motor Cars, Motor Cycles, Motor
Trucks and Accessories.
1/-
/k#/3///on
Bi/Z/d/nqs
M£LBOLWME
AUSTRALIA’S GREATEST DISPLAY OF MECHANICAL INDUSTRY
OPENS sth MAY: CJjOSES 14th MAY.
7 ... (a
Under the Auspices of the Chamber
of Automotive Industries.
H. W. HARRISON,
Sec. and Organiser.
m
QN
BANK
THE QUEENSLAND NATIONAL BANK, LIMITED.
Incorporated under the Companies Act 1863. Established 1872.
Directors —A. C. Luya, Esq., Chairman; James Love, Esq.; W. H. Hart, Esq..
M. J. Ryan, Esq.; D. W. Macdonald, Esq.
General Manager—M. G. HAYMEN.
HEAD OFFICE BRISBANE
With offices at London. Canberra (Federal Territory), Melbourne, Sydney, an'
95 branches in Queensland and Northern Rivers, N. S. Wales, also re P} T ‘ ■
through the leading Banking Institutions covering Australasia and the Wona, i _
Bank offers the fullest facilities for the transaction of all general banking bu.n
Road-Maker
and Crop-Raiser
The Martin Ditcher
Builds, Repairs and Maintains
Roads; Ditches, Terraces, Grades,
Levels, Fills In, Reclaims, Irrigates.
Exton House, Queen Street, Brisbane.
499 Little Collins Street, Melbourne.
T.T. B’l’gs, Light Square, Adelaide.
Queen Street, Perth.
A 1
I
Write
to
Desk B,
sdf
Challis House, Martin Place, Sydnej I
b ootbrawl (Continued from page J/l )
“Rucker” : There may be some important
changes in the rules when the Australian
Football Council meets in Melbourne during
the “carnival” in August. Chief of these
will perhaps be the proposed reduction in
the number of players from 18 to 16. It is
also suggested that the replacement of in-
jured players should be permitted; in fact,
the idea is that 18 players should be selected,
two to he “on the line” waiting to fill any
vacancy due to a casualty. The Victorian
Amateur Association has followed this prac-
tice for a couple of seasons, with satisfactory
results. The addition of a cross-bar to the
goal, as in Rugby, will also be considered.
If adopted, it will tend to further improve
the accuracy of kicking in the Australian
game, which already transcends that in any
other code of football.
BEN WEARING, the South Sydney wing
threequarter, who is, perhaps, the finest
exponent of that phase of football in
either of the Rugby codes.
The Sydney Rugby Union season, which
makes its official beginning on Saturday, is
one of the most momentous since 1908, when
the Wallabies packed up to tour Britain—
the first Australian team to do so. In those
days the side had some claim to represent
Australia, since it included a good few
Queenslanders. This year N. S. Wales alone
wall supply the men for the long tour of Bri-
tain and France. The Waratahs are due to
leave Sydney on June 22. They will play a
match against the Victorian Rugby Union
in Melbourne on the next day.
* * * *
“Stand Off”: The N.S.W. Rugby Union
team will have three games in France, all in
January, 1928. The opening match will be
played at Bordeaux, whence comes the “vang
rooge” ; the next will be at Toulouse, immor-
talised in the nursery rhyme, and the last
at Paris. All France will be the opposing
combination in each case. Whoever the
skipper and manager of the “Waratahs” will
be, both of ’em are hereby advised to prac-
tise kissing the opposition’s, leader, and the
umpire as well, if he gives a favorable
decision. According to accounts of the
Franco-Scottish match, both those eventuali-
ties must be provided for. What happens
to the ref. who gives an adverse decision is
not so clear. Perhaps the old revolution
panacea of a. la lantcrnc meets the case.
* * w *
“Hooker” : The combined Maoriland Uni-
versities’ 1 XV, which has been swapping
visits with Sydney Uni. for 20 years past,
will land in Sydney on May 17 and play a
programme of five matches. Apart from the
three games against Sydney Uni., the most
interesting event of the series promises to be
a combined M.L. and N.S.W. Uni. clash
with N.S.W.; the latter will be, as far
as possible, an experimental selection for the
side which goes to England in July. The
visitors play most attractive footer, and have
had a lot the better of the series of games in
Australia and their own Dominion, though on
their last visit here in 1923 honors were easy
—a win for each and a draw.
* * * *
“Everton” : For the first time in its his-
tory, the British Association Cup lias gone
to Wales. At Wembley on Saturday, before
George Rex and 100,000 others, Cardiff City
beat Woolwich Arsenal in the final by a
goal to nil. The Londoners had all the best
of the game until a stumble by Arsenal’s
goalie, Lewis, himself a Welshman, caused
him to drop the ball in the goal-mouth, with
the result that it spun across the line. Huge
crowds, unable to gain admittance, tried to
rush the gates, and the police had a busy
time.
"Shoot Laddie" : The Commonwealth Soc-
cer players have practically decided to send
a team to Europe in 1925. The principal
object will be to return the visit of the
Czecho-Slovaks, but it is also proposed to
have a shot at the Olympic Soccer tourney
at Amsterdam. The only Australian foot-
ball team to take part in the Olympiad, to
date, was- the Rugby Union Wallabies in
1908-9. when the side easily won the Olympic
championship. A good Australian team,
cemented together by a previous series of
games in Europe, should go near to repeat-
ing the feat of the Rugby men. Much will
depend on the form shown here by the
Czeclio-Slovaks, who are in the first rank
of Continental Soccer. Incidentally, the
crack British teams hold studiously aloof
from the Olympic contests.
The Watermen
“Leg Drive”: The N.S.W. crew for the
inter-State eight-oar race at Hobart on
May 7 left Sydney for the south last Sunday
by train. Their boat preceded them by
steamer, with sculler Bob Pearce in charge.
All six States will be represented in the
main event, which was won last year by
Tassie, the Speck's first win since 1914.
N.S.W., stroked by Ees Callaghan, will boat
the heaviest crew, averaging 12st. 41b. ;
Queensland’s lot are the lightest, going
list. 21b.. the Maunum club crew, which
represents South Aus., averaging just a
pound more. Form is difficult to gauge, but
the lads from the Swan River, who are very
keen on winning the right to go to Amster-
dam next year, are most in favor. The
sculls will be contested by Victoria, South
Aus.. Tas. and N.S.W. On form Pearce
should be a fair thing.
% * ❖ ❖
“F.S.”: Two days before Heuley-on-
tlie-Yarra last year fire destroyed Ed-
wards and Sons’ sheds, and 19 boats
and scratch craft had to be collected
from the numerous big events of the
rowing tourney. This followed on the
tragedy of the shooting of Lien 1.-Col. Tul-
loch, coach of the Melbourne Grammar
eight, on the morning of the head-of-the-river
race in May. Now, just as the crews are
once more warming up for the same event,
the Mercantile Club shed and most of its
contents have gone up mysteriously in smoko.
If somebody saw a hoodoo or taniwha or
something haunting the left bank of Mel-
bourne’s river, near Princes Bridge, rowing
men wouldn’t be a bit surprised.
* * * *
“Leander”: The inter-Uni. eight-oared
race for the Oxford and Cambridge Cup is
to take place this year on the Nepean River,
in that famous three-mile straight where so
many great sculling races have been held.
Sydney Uni., sick of the Parramatta River
crush and crowding, has secured all local
rights to the course. Penrith is the railway-
station, and the deep, sloping banks render
grandstands unnecessary; all the same,
reserved areas will be available for those
who want them. In referring to the change-
over to the beautiful country course, The
Bulletin expressed the pious hope that
the G.P.S. regatta would be transferred to
the same roomy venue. This has not been
the case, so far, and Sydney may expect the
usual jamb on the Parramatta.
G. R. HYDE. lie is one of the greatest dis-
tance runners Australia can boast. An
Australasian champion miler, the Vic-
torian is well in line for Olympic
honors.
“Slide” : Oxford’s long list of lickings at
the hands of the Cantabs may be broken in
next year’s boatrace, for two of Sydney
Uni.’s most promising oarsmen, Alwyn
Bloomfield and R. N. McCulloch, are going
into residence with the Dark Blues; McCul-
loch, indeed, is already there. Big fellows
and finished oarsmen, they are confidently
expected by Sydney watermen to secure seats
in the Oxford boat. Both were of the vic-
torious Sydney T'ni. crew in the inter-’Varsity
race last year: McCulloch was stroke.
Miscellaneous
By‘easily beating Collingwood in the final
(324 runs was the first-innings margin), St.
ivilda won its fourth consecutive cricket
premiership. Ponsford was not in his usual
scoring vein, but managed to get the 31 runs
required to bring his aggregate for the season
in all matches over the 2000 mark—an out-
standing record for Australia, where few top
the thousand, even when the visit of an over-
seas XI increases opportunities.
“Shrewsbury” : The decision of the Surrey
county cricket club to permit amateurs and
professionals to lunch together during
matches is being acclaimed by almost every
British journal, a possible exception being
the Police Gazette. It is doubtful whether
the old system of separating the castes or
the condescending blither being poured out
over the change is the more snobbish. Other
county clubs will be forced to follow suit,
and quite right, too. But no one seems to
have considered the question of how the
majority of the pros, will view the new idea.
The modern professional cricketer is often
able to hold his own in any company, but
there are plenty of the rank and file still left
who will feel the new feeding conditions irk-
some. The affable condescension of the aver-
age amateur will be one of the heaviest
crosses. Even a professional athlete has
some claim to consideration. The privacy of
the pros.’ dressing- and meal-rooms was a
privilege cherished by many cricketers the
writer has known. Tom Emmett, George
Ulyett and Bobby Peel, to name only three,
were apt to assume an air about lunch-time
on the last day of a big match which was
calculated to disturb even the Vere de Vere
repose—indeed, poor old Bobby’s retirement
from the Yorkshire XI was due to a char-
acteristic “lunch.” To the Australian, the
change appears the obvious thing. I have a
notion, though, that if a plebiscite of Eng-
lish pros, were taken on the question the
result might astonish the innovators.
* * * *
“Kelly”: Queensland scored in one of
Australia’s most characteristic athletic con-
tests when E. Ehlerth won the principal
wood-chopping contest at Sydney Easter
show. It was the 15-inch standing log cut,
and the winner got through his job in limn.
31sec., though he hadn’t much to spare
from L. Appo and M. McCarthy, of N.S.W..
who chased him home. As an example of
the devastating effect of the tropics on the
white race the burly Ehlerth is in a class
by himself.
* * * *
“Mapee”: I read in a Brisbane paper
the other day about a woodchop for the
championship of N.Q., the blocks used being
llin. and 12in. In another “competition” 7in.
and Bin. timber was used. Time was when
anything under 15in. was considered a school-
boy’s block. Why, Jack McKay and Bob
Kenman chopped 24in. of crowfoot elm at
Atherton for £lOO a side and no champion-
ship involved—Jack conceded Bob lOsec.
Seven inches! I’d wager a couple of beers
that men of the class of Darby Pretty
(M.L.), Gus Blanc (Vic.) and Tomasini
(Westralia) would have severed a Tin. block
with two blows, if it was any sort of soft-
wood.
“Naklioda” : A fish that apparently swam
from Spain was brought into the office of a
Melbourne newspaper the other day. . It was
a Spanish mackerel, and had been branded
by somebody, possibly a scientist studying
piscatorial migration.
* * * #
“Sandy” : Touching bait for black bream
(B. 7/4/’27). Angling with the lightest of
trout tackle at Mario, at the mouth of the
Snowy River, my brother and I have caught
these fish on blue, black and brown crabs,
shrimps, shell bait (not unlike a mussel,
and found in the sandy banks of the stream),
pickled prawns (sugared, and from Sydney)
and sandworms. The blue and black crabs
are far and away the best bait; moreover,
when using either you will not catch small
fish and will be free from vermin, such as
mullet.
* * * *
Tom Gordon, manager of the Vic. bowling
team that struck the deluge in Sydney, has
had a wide range in sport. A six-footer from
Armidale (N.S.W.), he figured in Rugby for
New England when the big N.S.W. country
. unions held their own with the metropolitans.
A good forward, he played against Mulli-
neaux’s British team in 1899. In the inter-
vals, he found time to become one of the best
tennis players outside Sydney. Tom was a
fine cyclist, too. As a bowler, he plays
with Elsternwick ; last year he skippered Vic-
toria against Tasmania with success. The
Easter visit was his seventh consecutive trip
to N.S.W. with the Victorian bowlers and
liis fourth as manager.
“Straight Wood” : Nothing has caused so
much bloodshed in bowls as the vexed ques-
tion of the standardisation of “woods”—
which, as often as not nowadays, have no
wood in their make-up. All sorts of ingeni-
ous appliances have been invented to test
the vagaries of the bowler’s lop-sided imple-
ments, but these tables seem as liable to vari-
ation as the bowls they test; in any case,
it is notorious that bowls which have been
tested and “corrected” are frequently found
to have returned to their former eccentrici-
ties. The Australian Bowling Council, sit-
ting in Sydney last week, made a heroic
effort to deal with the situation by evolving
a standardised testing-table. It is good bet-
ting, however, that the player who fancies
himself on the “drive” will continue to be
found in possession of “woods" with as much
bias as a billiard-ball, while the “draw”
specialist will cling to spheroids whose patli
is as circuitous ns that of .1. T. Lang’s lonely
furrow.
W. J. New bigin. the engineer whom pneu-
monia killed in Sydney last week, was an
enthusiastic yachtsman, though after he
moved on from Melbourne to Sydney a few
years ago he never sailed his own boat. On
the Victorian side he was best known for
his connection with that fast stepper, the
Sayonara, of which he was part-owner.
* # ❖ *
“The Gaffer”: Bundaberg (Q.) went off its
rocker when it heard that T. J. Miles had won
the Stawell Easter Gift. For Miles is a
native of Bundaberg, and the other natives
had backed him to win a couple of thou-
sand. The Gift is far and away the biggest
professional ped. race in Australia; first
home in the 130 yards gets £250, a silver cup
and a sash, besides his share of what his
party collect in bets. Miles cut out his
120 yards—he was “on” 10 yards—in 12 l-.i
sec.," so he is evidently a mover. At homo
he is a baker, who varies punching dough
with a bit of punching in the local ring and
playing Rugby football —which is much the
same thing, when you come to think of it.
Only 21, he is sft. lOin. high and 11 stone—
the ideal sprinter build. He is perhaps
destined to be a rival to Tim Banner, who
won the Gift in 1925. and whose backer-
are prepared to match him, against any
sprinter in the world, Paddock preferred.
* * * *
“Croquetted” : The South Aus. Croquet As-
sociation is in the throes of internecine war-
fare. First the founder and president re-
signed, and with him went treasurer, v.-p.’s
and most of the other executive heads. New
officials were elected, but these have been
declared “black,” or something. The portrait
of the original president and founder, which
hangs in the clubhouse, was found the other
day with its face turned to the wall; and
the worst is now feared.
* * * *
“Wang”: Prompted, perhaps, by the busi-
ness done by the vendors of bottled mussels
outside pubs, another street merchant has
started operations in Melbourne. He carries
a basket, too; but instead of bottled shell-
fish it contains Pomeranians or other pups ot
the toy persuasion, or Persian kittens. Tin
vendor takes his stand near the entrance r fl
populous pubs or clubs and offers his goods
for sale. The best business is done outside
the big betting clubs on race nights. Give",
a good day at the races, Moses McShortodd-
is a willing purchaser of the ball of fluff held
up for his inspection; it is generally a"
acceptable gift at home. He is a “mug" buyer,
as a rule; but, then, he can afford to be.


The best underwear
comes from England—
The best English made
underwear is —
Buy one
WOLSEY
Garment.
Compare it with
any other make
and you’ll realise
WOLSEYS
great value.
5^
Made in England by
WOLSEY OF LEICESTER
WOLSEY LTD.
316, Flinders Lane, Melbourne.
WHERE THE RUPtiE-SPORTS
GETS ITS SUPREMACY
80 MILES AN HOUR!
sdf
sdfs
RUDGE-WHITWORTH PATENT PROPORTIONAL
COUPLED BRAKES
Reduce the bogey of skidding to a minimum.
MECHANICAL LUBRICATION
Ensures the engine being always
properly “fed.”
FOUR OVERHEAD
VALVES
INTERCHANGEABLE
WHEELS
Save roadside troubles —you have
the advantage of a spare wheel
like a car.
FOUR SPEEDS
Give amazing power and valve Give you the exact gear for every
reliability. variation of road, load and speed.
There are two other 4.99 h.p. models, the cc Standard ” and the
“ Special.” All models fully maintain the world-wide reputation of
Rudge-Whitworth for high-grade workmanship, and every detail has
been designed for the utmost comfort and convenience of the rider.
FACTORY REPRESENTATIVE: JAMES THORNELL, 312 PITT ST., SYDNEY, N.S.VV.
Full particulars of all models may be obtained from— Sydney: Biden and Roberts,
150 Hay St. Melbourne : Rogers Bros.Pty. Ltd... 305 Swanston St. Brisbane :
Canada Cycle and Motor Agency (Q’land) Ltd., Creek St. Adelaide : Behrens
Thiem Co., 3 Devon House, Chesser St. Perth : Flower, Davies and Johnson,
404 Murray St. Tasmania, Hobart: J.Bilyard, 110 Elizabeth St. Launceston:
Carl Mantach, no Charles St.
dfs
df
Rudge- WhitworthLtd., Coventry, England
Macmillan’s
NEW BOOKS.
The prices advertised are those at which the
books are published in London. Prices outside
the British Isles must be fixed by the importing
bookseller.
Early Life and Letters of John
Morley.
By F. W. HIRST. With portraits and
other illustrations. Two vols. 28s. net.
Daily Chronicle : “Mr. Hirst has done his
work extremely well: a vivid and very agree-
able picture of Lord Morley as a young man.’'
A BURGLAR’S AUTOBIOGRAPHY.
You Can’t Win.
By JACK BLACK. 7s. 6d. net.
The Westminster Gazette: “A fascinating
b00k.... For nearly 400 pages we are con-
ducted through a maze of adventure, packed
with startling incident.”
Industrial Fluctuations.
By A. C. PIGOU, M.A., Professor of
Political Economy in the University
of Cambridge. With Charts. 255. net.
The Yorkshire Post : “The book, of its
nature, demands close study, and some of Pro-
fessor Pigou’s conclusions may be disputable,
but no more valuable work on the application
of economic principles to industrialism has been
produced in our time.”
A Treatise on Viticulture.
By A. I. PEROLD, 8.A., Ph.D., Pro-
fessor of Viticulture and Oenology n
the University of Stellenbosch. Illus-
trated. 250. net.
This treatise is the most complete and up-to-
date work on viticulture and grape products
existing in the English language.
To be Obtained from all
Booksellers.
MACMILLAN & CO. LTD.
MELBOURNE & LONDON, W.C.2
ectricity
gives
perfect
Refrigeration
CHILLED foods and ice-cold
drinks have a distinct comfort
that appeals universally.
You can now have a refrigerator as
cold as a snow-clad Alp, even if you
have no means of obtaining ice.
Kelvinator is a marvelous device
that furnishes crisp, frosty air by
electricity.
Kelvinator automatical!/ maintains an
even temperature —clean, dry, intensely
cold. It checks deterioration of food and
the consequent development of bacteria,
stopping the present waste of food caused
by spoiling.
3JS
m
m
A'i-.'-l. •
::Ai-
Moreover. Kelvinator freezes its own
crystal-clear cubes of ice for chilling bev-
erages and for other table uses. Once
Kelvinator is installed, you can forget all
about refrigeration and just enjoy the
most perfect refrigeration obtainable#
DANGAR, GEDYE & CO., Ltd.,
Young Street, Sydney. /
Kelvinator Showrooms: 75 William Street, Sydney.
’Phone: F 1778.
Kelvinator
Oldest Domestic Electric Refrigeration
The
10


Under
Royal
Warrant
Vintage 1917.
CHAMPAGNE
To H.M.
George V
UUB
Australasian Agents—'
Swift & Company Limited
SYDNEY.
CHAMPAGNE
Qiarlesllcidsico^
Reims
tjjiaaj]?
PELLISSON
Cognac Brandy.
10 YEARS OLD.
Australasian Agrents—
SWIFT & COMPANY LIMITED, Sydney.
JVS
A
muw
\M
iA
|:f
*> (;
\r,
/»
8W1361 for
Reservations.
Wentworth Hotel
Church Hill, Sydney.
SITUATED in a portion of old
Sydney, just a few minutes from
the Theatres, Shopping, G.P.0.,
Circular Quay and the Railway.
Attached to the hotel is the
famous Cafe, with its gorgeous
Palm Court, a splendid Dance
Orchestra and a sparkling Cabaret,
afternoon and evening.
Sydney’s Social Rendezvous.
_ 7hp cen/ne of Queens/onc/$
c/tshnsfatshec/ Socio/ Life.
m<At\
BRISBANE
sd
Magnificent Ball-
room. Palm Court
and Lounges at the disposal of
guests and their friends at all
times.
Suites de Luxe—double and single
Bedrooms, with Bathrooms
attached. Hot and cold running
water and Electric Fans in every
Bedroom, and every modern con-
venience for the comfort of guests.
Telegrams and Cables: Lennon’s, Brisbane,
Telephone, Central 5780—10 Lines.
A WOMAN'S
LETTER
SAY
Kayser
SLIPPER HEEL
[?]
STOCKINGS
Still the memory of our dead is quick
among us. To Monday’s Anzac service in
the Domain came in their tens of thousands
the mothers and fathers, the widows and
orphans and the cobbers of those who lie
buried on Gallipoli, in Palestine and under
the poppies of France. On the gentle slope
that falls from the National Gallery the vast
congregation gathered as the hour of eleven
drew near—sixty thousand spread like a
human sea about the flagged stage, and in it
every type and degree of human that the
city holds. Photographers like fantastic
orchestra-leaders swayed on the top of high
ladders, seeming to lead the tremendous
volume of sound that burst out in the Re-
cessional. Loud speakers proclaimed the
words of the day’s orators to the four
quarters of the heavens. But it was the
voice of the heart that dominated all.
On the far outskirts small girls swung
high, swung low between the green earth and
the blue sky; and near by other small
girls skipped merrily. Perhaps that would
make old Slouch Hat happiest—it was some-
thing like that he died for.
“That’s a fine mob, mother,” drawled the
leathery sun-dried man standing at the back
of the members’ stand watching the thou-
sands jostling their way about the ring and
tote. A second glance discovered “mother”
to be a small, hot-looking brown woman in
probably the most expensive fur coat in the
melee. It was a coat a queen might have
envied, but half a foot too long for the pre-
vailing fashion. Somebody—Heaven bless
him! —had struck it rich on good old Sod,
who is not quite so capricious as his cousin
Turf. It was indeed a fine mob, 80,000
strong, that turned out to see the running of
the weather-delayed Sydney Cup. And when
that Cup was won by the outsider Piastoon,
despised of the tipsters—only The Btjt.t.e-
tin’S racing man was faithful to him —it
was the last drop in a week brimming with
disappointment for the punter.
However, none of the women seemed to
have put their boots on the event, for even
to the end of the day there was a display of
the smartest footwear ever seen on the stands
at Randwick. Reptile skins are more used
as trimming now than as the complete shoe.
Blonde shoes, and the new tie shoe, and gay
little strapped shoes twinkled up and down
Ihe stands, making even the foot of middle
age look as though it was ready to dance
down the primrose way instead of turning
the corner straight to the corn-cutter.
Randwick was wrapped in blue and green
and the sun shone warm. Every woman had
come out in her prettiest, and only she who
had left home while the nip was in the
morning air wore her winter garbage. Georg-
ettes and marocains heavy with fringe were
as plentiful as the tailored suit and the fur
coat. Velvet was on countless shoulders,
and the little velvet coat with a checked
woollen or pleated crepe-de-Chine skirt is
already done to death. White fox furs are
so much in that one suspects them of being
the old-time foxaline. Hats were mostly
horrible —tall and hard and wrong for half
the faces beneath them.
The man who knows more than anybody
else in the world about bai.k reserves, Sir
Ernest Harvey, was in the vice-regal lun-
cheon party. This was quite a big affair, and
included the Justice Harvey couple, the
side-levered Radcliffe Brown, Roy de Mestrc,
the Naval Robins couple, Agricultural Minis-
ter Dunn and his wife, the Arthur Allens
and a group of Elaine’s friends. With her
rain-waslied blue marocains Lady de Chair
wore a blue felt hat, and Elaine mostly wore
a pink sugar smile above coral-pink maro-
cains. Mrs. Claude Macdonald was frocked
and caped in almond-green, and added
amethyst and jade ear-rings; Mrs. Claude
Reading’s check tailorings were very smart;
and Mrs. Colin Stephen exhibited a line of
smoked fox furs that won instant approval.
Mrs. Alec Hay framed her magnolia skin in
wine red, and Nan Garvan looked like a
Tatler picture of the English Country
Woman in her severe tweeds; Margaret
Osborne was bound in snakeskin; two of
the day’s nieest-looking women, Mrs. Percy
Wi lisa lien and Mrs. J ohn McKelvey, were
coated and hatted in sand tones; and sand
was the prevailing tone flown by Tom Dalton’s
fair young widow, who was blushing attrac-
tively over the congratulations of her engage-
ment to Reg Stafford, of Llangollan station.
The Race Week Ball was an easy winner
on the week’s dull and heavy track. The
affair was mixed dinner and dance, and
Lady de Chair was among those who brought
parties. She wore one of her Duke and
Duchess frocks, a Sargent-like arrangement of
old-rose and gold brocade, with Sybil Thorn-
dike sleeve effects of rose georgette, the sleeves
caught at the wrist, and the whole served
with pearls at the ear and throat. Quite
a Russian Ikon effect was gained by Mrs.
Claude Macdonald, of Wantabadgery, who
was at the vice-regal board. Her colorful
gold and rose tissues were ankle-length,
bestrewn with gold sequins, and topped by
a high gold and rose coronet. Mrs. Tom
Bavin kept the treasury in pink georgettes,
and pink-flowered chiffons enwrapped secre-
tary Mrs. Guy Blaxland, while flame tulle
meshed Mrs. Gore .Tones, organising sec-
retary for the Adult Deaf and Dumb Build-
ing Fund, whose f-s.-d. columns the flutter
will enlarge. Well-known people from the
country were at every table, and the hospi-
table Jack Campbells, as usual, entertained
an outsize party.
The Country Women’s Association cele-
brates its fifth birthday by publishing a
concise history of its life. With this are
bound the businesslike reports and balance-
sheets of its strenuous and useful career,
and the whole makes interesting reading to
the Australian woman in town or country
who has the well-being of the continent at
heart. Foremost on the honor-list is Miss
Florence Gordon, who not only had the
imagination to see a golden age for the
woman on the land, but the energy to set
about making the vision come true. But
before even Florence Gordon the problem
of improving the conditions of life in the Out-
back had been given serious thought by
splendid women like Ruth Beale, Alice Cur-
rie, Mrs. Francis Moore and Mrs. Wiggan,
the last two of Anglcdool. Little Dr. Arthur,
of course, cheered the Cause past its first
milestone, and another name connected with
the association’s earliest activities is Mrs.
Hugh Munro’s. She was the first president.
Mrs. A. J. Studdy, who is president now,
opened this year’s C.W.A. Conference at the
Adyar Hall while the rain beat out its
threnody on the already sodden roofs and
streets of Sydney. Such matters as'the care
of mother and baby, emergency help for sick
and tired mothers, and the establishment of
baby-clinics and maternity hospitals through-
out the country received, as usual, the
greatest attention of the conference. The
never-ending discussion of whether to turn
the association into a limited liability con-
cern or allow it to continue the grand gesture
of “unlimited” supplied the cud for nearly
one afternoon’s rumination. Finally, the
matter was settled, to the joy of the
capable treasurer, Mrs. Hazlett; and the
C.W.A. is now a corporate body. The State
Vice-reine, who was to have opened the con-
ference, could not come till the second day,
and then she lifted the veil that shrouds the
sacred workings of the vice-regal kitchens.
Evidently even in the higher circles the cook-
general threatens to leave if too much com-
pany is entertained above stairs. Lady de
Chair naively apologised for not inviting
the country ladies to take tea in the big
house-gardens as they did last year, telling
them it was a case of choosing between them
and her domestic staff—and any housewife
knows that is Hobson’s choice.
This Letter has discovered the only woman
novelist who looks exactly like her own
heroines. She is Cynthia Stockley, and the
picture alongside doesn’t do her justice.
Somebody remarked about “Poppy" that she
looked like a
girl in an Au-
brey Beardsley
drawing; and
that’s about
the easiest way
o f describing
her creator’s
ow n flowing
length of limb.
The day she
said “How do
you do?” to
The Bulletin
Cynthia wore
a caped frock
of dark blue
silk cre p e
whose surface
has that new-
dull look. Its
sleeves were
■long and where
they fell open
at the wrists
they were edged with gazelle, and the same
fur collared the cape and edged its uneven
hem. Neither cape nor dress was short,
and her legs were not obtrusive. The long
slim hands were heavy with rings, and on
the right one a regular rajah’s ruby flung out
as much glow as a large-size radiator. Yet
the wearer didn’t look like the Rue de la
Paix or Bond-street.
Cynthia Stockley looked a law unto her-
self. And indeed she must be, for she is
brave enough to stand up to her publisher
when lie wants the story changed—“just a
trifle more conventional. Miss Stockley!" To
him Miss Stockley very wisely says: “It
is just that savor of myself that my public
wants. If I become a weak imitation of
somebody else I am killing the goose that
lays the golden egg.” “Poppy” has been the
writer’s greatest friend. It broke the neces-
sity which had chained her to journalism;
anil it still continues to pour a little stream
of gold into the author’s coffers. But who
can give a woman more than half Irish, who
has been brought up amid the open-lianded-
ness of Rhodesia, a plug to keep the gold
from running out?
Cynthia, who shares her London home with
Australia’s old friend Sara Allgood, whis-
pers that “Peg o’ My Heart” suffers from
the same inability to stop spending. Sara
is now known as Juno from her triumph in
the name-part of Sean O’Casey’s “Juno and
the Paycock.” The successful filming of all
her novels has turned the South African’s
thoughts to playwriting, and she has two
vivid dramas ready for the theatre. Miss
Stockley intended to spend some weeks in
Broome among the pearl fishers, but busi-
ness on her Rhodesian farm caused her to
leave by the Tliemistocles on Saturday; her
friend of long standing. Lady Townley, who
travelled to Australia with her, returns direct
to Europe.
All Australia has heard of J. C. William-
son, founder of
the great tlieat-
tiical firm that
still bears Ms
name. Here is
his only child
the good-
looking girl
known to all
her Mends as
Tootles. She
is now Mrs.
Wallace Hors-
ley, of Yab-
tree station,
and as she is
as sure on
horseback a s
she is in driving
her car, coun-
try distances
have no terrors
for her. In-
deed, all round
she is as cap-
able as she is pretty.
Before beginning their discussions the
members of the Country Women’s Association
who were in town for their yearly confer-
ence had a glad-to-meet-you-again party.
This was housed in the Feminist Club rooms,
and everybody brought the family song-
album and passed an hour or so agreeably in
the singing of glees and catches and hearty
choruses. It was quite a jolly party, and
as most of the guests were too busy to know
whether the others were singing flat or sharp,
it passed without any necessity for calling
out Sister Kenny’s patent stretcher, though
a better occasion for its demonstration can-
not be imagined. Mrs. A. J. Studdy, who
comes from Boggabri, and is the C.W.A.
president, was impressive in black and white,
and the association’s first president, Mrs.
Hugh Munro, was another sheathed iii hand-
some black. Mrs. Sidney Herring put a
dash of mauve into the dress cocktail.
The English-Speaking Union held the floor
at the Ambassadors on Friday night with
its annual Shakspearean Ball. Ladies and
gentlemen from every land over which the
imagination of the immortal Will had roamed,
stepped out in the Pageant, which was
declared one of the finest by Mrs. Willoughby
Hodman, the much-travelled American, who
as far as one can learn has called on every
notability in Europe except Shakspeare him-
self —and that omission was only due to an
unavoidable clashing of dates. The proces-
sion took nearly an hour to pass the vice-
regal dais and the judges’ box—a more
prolonged affair than a Royal Progress, and
one of its delights was the little Mockbell
girl who came as a Nautch-dancer attendant
on Cleopatra. Her waist looked about 13&
inches round, and altogether she was just
a slim grace. Lawrence Campbell’s Falstaff
was a rollicking chap ; so was the Cardinal
Wolsey of Mr. Wilshire. Of the Eliza-
bethans, Mrs. Wolfcarnis deserves an honor-
able mention, and the Touchstone of Mrs.
Liddell was another faithful personification.
Among those with the Vice-reine and Sir
Dudley were the American Consular Law-
tons, the Mungo MacCallums and the Lane
Pooles.
French champagne took the place of Aus-
tralian sparkling hock at the Wentworth
Cafe on Friday night, when the French
Alliance opened this year’s social activities
with a well attended ball. Consul-General
Nettement’s wife was at once gracious and
girlish in deep coral georgette, which was
the groundwork for a garden planned in
tiniest seed pearls, and opened the dancing
with Jacques Playoust. Alfred Wunderlich
and his tall, slim wife brought a son and
daughter, the good-looking Estrepeant couple
—she looking like a newly-opened La France
rose in pink satin—and Marguerite liigin-
botham, smart in black and silver lace.
Alphonse Even and his lady entertained one
of the biggest parties, and were supported
by M. and Mme. Jean Brial. Paul Bonnet,
of the University, and his wife did the
honors at the Consular table, while the}
kept a benevolent eye on a party of French
students. The most admired group, however,
was with Fred Searl and his wife, who
celebrated daughter Valma’s birthday by
giving a treat to a party of sub-debs.
Sydney’s most talked of week-end wedding
was the linking up of Meta de Burgh Ander-
son, of Darlinghurst, and Victor Musgrove,
son of the George Musgroves. All Saints',
Woollalira, affixed the soldering; and other-
wise the wedding was tailor-made, the bride
and her maids wearing ensemble suits.
Kathleen Butler, the clever girl who was
secretary to Dr. Bradfield, engineer of the
Harbor bridge and the city underground
railway, last week went the way of the lesser
female who knows not the difference between
a centimetre and a centipede except by the
sting. In other words she got married, and
the pretty bronze head that is stuffed with
the higher mathematics was meshed in tulle
that flowed over her shoulders and formed
the train of her glitteringly embroidered
white satin frock. Her armlet of orchids and
lily of the valley had a tiny bridge contrived
in the heart of it. The young man who
called forth all this radiance is Maurice
Joseph Hagarty, of Strathlea station, Cunna-
mulla (Q.). Supported by best-man Larry
Dwyer, and interrogated wisely by Father
Boran, of Katoomba, he soon found lie had
.joined the ranks of the married men. Then
in honor of the bride, who is a member of
the Uni. War Memorial Committee, the
chimes of St. Mary’s rang out. To their
glad outburst the wedding party, including
bride’s sister Gladys in sky-after-ram blue,
mingled with cobwebby lace, and 'groom’s
sister Kathleen, in mixed lace and lilaey-
pink georgette, stepped out into the first
tine morning the city had known for a week.
The bride’s family was for many years resi-
dent in Mount Victoria, and the 'groom
comes from a well-known Brewarrina pas-
toral family.
A grand-daugliter of that Dr. Kelynaek
who was the most impressive orator the
Methodists ever had in N. S. Wales was
married at the Mosman chapel last week.
She was Nancy, the younger daughter of the
Rev. L. H. Kelynaek. of Stanmore; and
she exchanged her name for one as long and
well-known in the land as her own. Her
groom was Ivor Vaughan Manton, son of
the W. Mantons of Mandaloug House. Mos-
man. Dr. C. J. Prescott and Padre .1.
Colwell tied the knot; and the Warringah
Hall was the h.q. for the hospitality of the
bride’s parents.
Octavius Beale and his family are leaving
for Europe by the Aorangi. Daughter Ruth,
who is in the party, sits on a generous pro-
portion of women’s committees and was fare-
welled by Lyceum Club members (the hand-
some Cornstalk is on its council) on Satur-
day night. President Mrs. A. G. Thomas
counted her chicks at the main entrance of
Her Majesty’s, whence they dived down stairs
into the stalls to see Marie Burke in “Fras-
quita.” Supper at the Queen's Club, a posy
for Ruth and a speech or two followed.
Mrs. Walter Armitage poured out tea for
a party of young things at the Lyceum Club
the other afternoon when a pre-wedding
hanky-party nearly submerged dainty Mar-
jorie Macdonald of Mosman. The wedding
was this Wednesday in St. Clement’s, of the
leafy suburb. Marjorie is a daughter of
lawyer Evan Macdonald, and the man is
Rex Grogan.
In spite of the night being a dirty one
(it saw the passing of the cyclone), the
Women’s Country Club held its Reunion
ball at the appointed hour at Dungowan. in
Martin-place. Hither came men and women
groaning under the weather that had been
upon the city for days, but in spite of it
determined to enjoy themselves. Every vari-
ety of lucky novelty that could raise a laugh
and a silver coin had been thought out, and
the party, though small, merited the descrip-
tion merry and bright.
To-morrow (the 20tli) the suburbs of
Sydney will reverberate to the rattle of tin-
Hospital Friday collection-box. The city is
given a week longer in which to save its
tram-change. But on the 6th ! Mr. Whid-
don is as the sucking dove compared with
the ravening tiger that crouches behind the
gazelle eyes of the girl with the hox.
When the Mayor of Suva got out his robe,
which he hadn’t worn since the Prince o!
Wales's visit, he found that moth and silver-
fish had eaten all the fur off if. The Renown,
with the Duke and Duchess on board, was
due to arrive next day, so he realised that
if lie intended to uphold the dignity of his
office he would have to get a move on. AH
the shops were tried, hut no fur could b
found. Then some resourceful person had
a brain-wave. A toy dog was ripped up and
its wool expeditiously transferred to the
robe.


JiAI<PY BROTH ITD
Christening Gifts
A Selection from Hardy's Range
8A8433.
Child’s Heavy Silver Mug, in ease.
Capacity, .[ pint, £4/4/-
sdf
8A5431.
Child’s Solid Silver Spoon and
Fork, in case, 25/-
8A8427. (At Right.)
Child’s Silver-plated Mug.
Capacity, $ pint, 20 /-
8A8430.
Plain Solid
Silver Serviette
Ring, 9/-
sdf
8A8428.
Child’s Solid Silver Bowl and
Spoon; in velvet-lined case.
Diameter of bowl. 3J inches.
£5/10/-
sdf
8A8432.
Solid Silver Spoon, in case.
15/-
Five per cent. Discount allowed
for Cash.
Hardy’s New Illustrated Cata-
logue will be sent on request.
298-300
COLLINS ST.,
MELBOURNE
H i . R. DY
BROTHERS LTD.
< 3Re°Kous€> oP &ectusu:c SJeweUery
13 HUNTER STREET, SYDNEY.
And at LONDON.
116-118'
QUEEN SI.,
BRISBANE.
HANDY BOOR
of Practical Electricity
DELS
OOK
HR
% *VXTH
iNO
SRAMS
y
K^y
To A
. | Practical
UNDERSTANDING
of Electricity
PRICE
Postage
1/-
Extra.
INFORMATION in a Handy Form
for quick reference under the headings as shown below. The complete index in the back of the
book tells you quickly on what page to find complete information on the electrical subject in
which you are interested.
Electro-Therapeutics
Electric Shocks
X-Rays
Welding
Brazing
Soldering
Heating
Motion Pictures
RADIO
Radio Hook-ups
Telephone
Telegraph
Electric Bells
Cranes
Elevators
Pumps
Electric Ship Drive
Electric Railways
Electric Vehicles
Automobile Starting
and Lighting Systems
Ignition
Generation and Trans-
mission
Electric Tools
Plant Management
Power Station Plans
ARMATURE WINDING
Armature Repairing
A. 0. Motors
Alternator Construction
Alternators
D. C. Motors
Dynamos
Magnetic Induction
Wiring
Wiring Diagrams
Electric Lighting
Sign Flashers
Cable Splicing
Power Wiring
Underground Wiring
Outside Wiring
Wiring Finished Buildings
Tests
A. C. Apparatus
(Switch Devices)
(Current Limiting)
(Lightning Protection)
Rectifiers
Converters
Transformers
Power Factor
Alternating Currents
D. O. Apparatus
(Switches)
(Fuses)
(Circuit Breakers)
(Rheostats)
(Watt Hour Rules)
Electro Plating
Electrolysis
Storage Batteries
Magnetism
Electrical Energy
Conductors
Insulators
Static Electricity
Dynamic Electricity
Magnetic Electricity
Radio Electricity
Ready Reference
Recent Applications
Index on all subjects
Diagrams, Charts, Illustrations and Easily Read Text make hard jobs easy.
N.S.W. BOOKSTALL CO. LTD.
CASTLEREAGH AND MARKET STREETS, SYDNEY.
fl*
mm
Ok
3
K!
1 /
■ ta s
Qells and Peals
We have been Bell Manufacturers for over
50 years, and cast bells for Churches, Fire
Purposes, Ships, Schools, Clocks, etc.
We also cast Church Peals of an octave or over, correctly tuned
for Church and musical purposes. All our bells are designed
upon scientific lines, and are noted for resonance and beauty
of sound.
Iron lowers for fcells
Where towers or belfries are not available, we supply Iron
Towers for swinging the bell, with a weatherproof hood.
These towers are in demand where belfries are not available
—their low price making them available even in small parishes.
We erect lowers & Hells
in every part of the State. Inquiries invited.
; JOHN HANKS tSON
S-/32t330 PITT ST SYDNEV'39I-403 BOURKE ST. MELBOURNE'
PTY.
LTD.


A. SAUNDERS’
FIRST-QUALITY DIAMONDS,
SPECIALLY SELECTED,
A. Saunders’ Dia-
mond All Plati-
num Wedding Ring,
£25, £3O, £35,
£4O.
A. Saunders Three-
Diamonds, Octagon-
shaped, Platinum-
set 18ct. Gold King,
£lO.
Target' Diamonds,
£l5, £2O.
A. Saunders’ Dia-
monds, fancy plati-
num-set ]Bct. Geld
Ring, £2O.
A. Saunders’ Three-
Diamonds, Hexagon-
shaped, plati-
num-set 1 Set. Gold
Ring, £lO.
Targer Diamonds,
£l5, £2O.
<&W 12 / ->
©0 K
✓ G
JEgJgSS
.. Saunders «> imotid-set All-Platinum Jewelled
Lever - h. Silk Wrist-band, £75.
Smaller Diamonds, £6O. GUARANTEED.
EjStffiSSSl
(U;! "O
SBMffflgg
A. Saunders’ Diamond-set All-Platinum
Jewelled Lever Watch. Silk Wristband,
£3O. QUA KA N TRED,
I®
SPECIAL ILLUSTRATIONS
Forwarded Free on Request,
We Pay Postage on All Orders.
\\l2/
SSf? > - V,/
<7 N
f 6 6 Jm
m®
A. Saunders’ Diamond-set 18ct. White Gold
Jewelled Lever Watch. Silk Wristband, £35.
GUARANTEED.
i«asr «* wsj
cuts
O CO
A. Saunders’ Diamond-set All-Platinum
Jewelled Lever Watch, Silk Wristband,
£3O.
A. Saunders’ Two-
Diamond, Octagon-
shaped, platinum-
set 18ct. Gold
King, £5O.
A. Saunders’ Four-
Diamonds. set
Platinum 18ct. Gold
King-, £25.
Smaller Diamonds,
£2O, £l5.
A. Saunders’ Dia-
mond Button Cluster
set Platinum 18et.
Gold Ring, £35.
Smaller Diamonds,
£25.
A. Saunders’ 5-
Diamond-set Platinum
18ct. Gold Ring-,
£l2/10/-
Lai-gcr Diamonds,
£2O, £25.
A. SAUNDERS
Watchmaker—Jeweller—Optician,
805-813 GEORGE STREET (opposite Railway Station), SYDNEY.
WINTER TOURS
ARRANGED BY
THOS. COOK & SON
Railway., Steamship and Tourist Agents,
PASSAGES BOOKED BY ALL LINES.
Monthly Sailing List—Post Free.
TRAVELLERS’ CHEQUES
Issued in Sterling and Dollars.
PASSENGERS’ BAGGAGE INSURED.
ESCORTED INCLUSIVE TOURS
TO
JAVA
SIAM
MALAYA
JAPAN
Departures in June, July and August.
INDEPENDENT INCLUSIVE TOURS
HONOLULU - - CALIFORNIA
BRITISH COLUMBIA
SOUTH AFRICA and CEYLON.
Special Departures June, July, August, October.
CRUISES TO SOUTH SEA ISLANDS.
TOURS TO NORTH QUEENSLAND.
WINTER SPORTS
MT. BUFFALO (Vic.), MT. COOK (N.Z.).
, FULL DETAILS IN
WINTER TOURS PROGRAMME
POST FREE FROM—
THOS. COOK & SON
MELBOURNE:
269 Collins Street.
SYDNEY:
Martin Place
(Opp. G.P.O.)*
ADELAIDE:
49a Grenfell Street.
AUCKLAND:
N.Z. Insurance Building,
Queen Street.
WELLINGTON;
Government Life Building
(Next G.P.0.).
EXCLUSIVE
MINCS
XN
//
SPECIAL VALUE
DIAMONO-CIRCLE-D.INGS
FROM £ls IS-0
DIAMONDS
DIAMONDS
DIAMONDS
tAOS
Drummond’s Diamond and Gem Rings completely
fulfil the most exacting, demands rightly attaching
to the purchase of the finest rings procurable.
Speaking, from an experience of over half a
century, the firm invite you to expect of their rings
a Quality, a Superiority of Workmanship, and an
Individuality that can be found in no other rings.
Drummond’s rings are the supreme combination
of all of these characteristics, and a true reflection
of more than fifty years of specialised effort to
evolve the most beautiful rings that cart be made.
WM* DRUMMOND &. CO.
cn.tHE HOUSE FOR FINE QUALITY DIAMONDS-*
AND PEARLS
344-346 COLLINS ST. MELBOURNE
Itastertauch
The Music Roll of Distinction.
Attractive List of April Releases.
Fox Trots.
D.IG60 —Susie’s Feller
D.I6G2 —It Made You Happy When You
Made Me Cry
D. 1663 —Idolising
D.l6Bs—Half a Moon (is Better than
No Moon). (From “Honeymoon
Lane.’’)
D. 1667—Fire!
D.l 6 68 —I Can’t Get Over a Girl Like
You (Loving a Boy Like Me)
D. 1669 —Just One More Kiss
D.l67o—Pretty Cinderella
*D.l677—Baby! Pull up Your Socks
D. 1679 —Looking for a Boy. (From “Tip
Toes.”)
D.l6Bl—Sweet and Low Down. (From
“Tip Toes.”)
D. 1682 —That Certain Feeling. (From
“Tip Toes.”)
Waltzes.
D.l 661—Forget-Me-Not (Hawaiian)
D.l664—When You Waltz With the One
You Love
D. 166 Orphan Annie
D. 1671 —Am 1 Wasting Mv Time on You?
D. 167- —Ting-a-Ling
D. 1686 —Let’s Grow Old Together
Marches.
D.ICS9 —Semper Fidelis
D.l676—The Big Parade
Ballads.
D.l 654—One Fleeting Hour —Key of D
Flat
*0.1655—A Brown Bird Singing—Key of
F. E to D
0.1658 —Angel’s Serenade—Key of G
*o.l674—Advance Australia Fair —Key of
O. Cto F
*D.l67s—Look Down, Dear Eyes—Key of
F. Cto D
*D.1684 —Bird Songs at Eventide. Key
of G. Dto E
Operatic Numbers
(with Words).
*00.1673 —The Sunshine Girl (Selection)
*oo.l6B3—Ma Mie Rosette (Selection)
*oo.l6Bs—Tom Jones (Selection)
C Series.
XC.B79—An Old Sweetheart of Mine
(Descriptive) Lee S. Robert'
C.BB0 —1. Etude 28, Op. 32 .. Berth::
2. Tarnbourin Rameau
C.BB1 —Largo (Aria from the opera or
“Xerxes”). (With Organ KA*t=.i
Handel
OBTA TNABBE EVERYWHERE.
Also obtainable in Expression Rolls.
JVVASTERTOUCH
rtand Played jp
.Austc Rolls .
are the
LATEST AMD BEST
G. H. Horton & Co., Ltd.
Wholesale Distributors Only, 66 CITY ROAD, SYDNEY.


THE
WOMAN'S MIRROR
Published Every Tuesday
Is the most popular 64-page
woman’s paper published in
the Commonwealth. It features
everything a woman ought to
know. Once you read it you
will never be without it.
Its up-to-date weekly pattern
is free for the asking.
Published by
The Bulletin Newspaper Co.,
214 George Street, Sydney.
o
for \bu
IN MELBOURNE.
A
The appointments throughout this
modern residential hotel are complete,
the service and cuisine faultless, and
the central city location of the hotel
itself the acme of convenience.
Inclusive Tariff by Day, or Bed and
Breakfast Rate.
Suites on Application.
Tariff Cards Posted on Request.
Telegrams: “Scott’s,” Melbourne.
’Phone: Cent. 9012 (6 lines).
Ijdjtlii
Collins St. Melbourne
m
sir
■'**&*}'
SYDNEY.
The Finest Restaurant and Dance
Rendezvous in Australasia.
PATRONAGE CONTINUALLY INCREASING.
Capacity: Dining and Supper Dances up to 1300.
For Wedding Receptions, Banquets, Dining and
Supper Dances, inquiries to Manager.
Mon., Tues., Wed., Fri., Dining de Luxe, 7.33,
10/6; Suppers, 10.30, 5/6. Value and satis-
faction without equal. No charge for Three
hours’ dancing on satin-smooth spring floors —
a new thrill of real delight.
Thurs and Sat. Late Gala Nights. Continental
Dinner from 7.30, 21/-. Suppers, 10.30. 12/fi.
This evening in London costs £2/2/- upwards.
PEERLESS ORCHESTRA OF TEN.
Bewitching Cabaret, afternoons and evenings.
Delightful Afternoon Teas, 3.30 to 5.30, 5/-
Two hours’ entertainment of Sheer Delight.
Order Wines before 6 p.m. Ring A 1.5666.
Melbourne
Chatter
Buckley's
Elizabethan
Tea Rooms
F[?] Contral 800for P[?]
Buckley e-Nunn, Lrimited.
So[?] so M[?]
A dainty little lady with very blue eyes,
roses-and-cream complexion and fluffy dark
hair caught the eyes of Melbournit.es and
a lot of folk from the hinterland when a
battle-cruiser brought her to Port Phillip
last week. Betty of York and her nice,
fresh, well-laundered husband made an in-
stantaneous hit. “Isn’t she sweet!” was on
every feminine tongue. The Renown got
in on Thursday in time for eleven-o’clock tea,
in weather that was a mixture of chill, rain
and sunshine, used in various combinations.
The warship, mooring with stately grace,
like a great lady who has not lost the slim
lines of her youth, swam into sight sur-
rounded by a fussy group of courtiers —
cruisers, pleasure-steamers, and small craft
of all kinds. A contrary tide gave the
masters of maritime ceremonies some anxiety.
There was much megaphoning of orders by
gold-braided officers, a great deal of pushing
and pulling by tugs, and a prodigious amount
of hauling on hawsers by long lines of Jack
Tars on the station pier at Port Melbourne
before the order to dress ship was given
and the mooring accomplished. Even then
the gangway had to cover a wide span.
Amid much rustling of the feathers on cocked
hats and a subdued clanking of swords, the
guard of the Royal Marines marched out on
the wet deck. It took a long time to get
them in absolutely perfect alignment, but
Admiral Napier’s practised eye played over
them approvingly when he stepped aboard
to pay his respects. So the trouble wasn’t
wasted. Then with a fanfare of trumpets
the Duke, looking much younger than his
years, came ashore and. with the admiral,
gave the guard of the R.A.N.R. the once-
over. the band meanwhile exhorting Heaven
to save the King.
By midday the crowds had filtered back
into the city and many were searching for
good pussies behind the barriers, ready to
risk rain and cold for four hours. An enter-
prising person did a brisk trade in fruit-
oases at a bob apiece, and Collins and Swan-
ston streets were littered with dozens of them
afterwards. Though the street decorations
were not exactly artistic, they made a fairly
festive show, and the Town Hall’s display
of grouped flags was attractively arranged.
From St. Kilda to the city the route of the
Royal progress was crowded with humanity,
on its feet, perched on motor-cars and lorries
and packed into stands. The wind was cold
and strong, and the gale frolicked with the
crimson .carpet on St. Kilda Pier, threaten-
ing to roll it into the bay until men came
and nailed it firmly down. The arch of
welcome, too, rocked under the breeze and
had to be tethered with stout ropes. The
Army and the Navy sent out their big chiefs
in their fiercest war-paint, and these leav-
ened the mass of light-trousered, frock-coated,
top-hatted civilians. There was a faint odor
of moth-balls and some of the frock-coats
could have done with a pressing, but the
ensemble was magnificent. Premier Allan,
eschewing such vanities as belltoppers,
sported a felt Akubra, and a Parliamentary
colleague compromised with sinful pride by
displaying a black bowler. The G.-G. was
in full-dress military rig, overshadowing
Governor Somers, who was in civvies, but
not secretary Davidson, whose kilt and spor-
ran were admired by all. S. M. Bruce looked
as beautiful as ever, and Mrs. Bruce, who
watched from her car, must have been proud
of him. »
Twenty-eight ’planes helped to cheer the
wait, and there was no presage of the grim
disaster that later was to mar the day’s
rejoicing. The Digger Mayor of St. Kilda,
Burnett Gray, and his trusty aldermen
mustered on a Persian carpet to give a wel-
come to their bailiwick. The stage being
thus set, booming cannon proclaimed that
the Yorks were setting out across the bay.
In a few minutes sailing-boats, launches and
canoes were following in the wake of the
royal barge, a blue craft that flew the Royal
Standard and the White Ensign. Safely
landed on the pier, the Duke accepted the
loyal homage of St. Kilda, which gave him
an address done in scarlet and gold and a
casket of polished wood to hold it. Mayoress
Gray handed a big posy of orchids and roses
to the Duchess, who wore a georgette frock,
a small velvet hat of the hue of her eyes,
and a lovely coat of grey brocade bearing
traceries of brown and blue. At a spanking
pace the procession of open carriages with
Postillions in blue and gold and an escort
of Lancers conveyed the Royal couple and
their entourage through the crowded
thoroughfares amid the muffled roar of the
populace. The first big outburst of applause
came from the St. Kilda school kids, who
were drawn up on the lawn. They sang
the National Anthem, and then cheered and
waved Hags like mad.
Arriving at Melbourne Town Hall
an address was handed over by Mayor Morell,
and the Mayoress, whose mole cape covered
a black gown, had an armful of crimson
roses and autumn foliage for the Duchess.
Later, Mrs. Morell succored with tea the
womenfolk of aldermen and councillors
assembled on the Town Hall stand. Her
reception suite at the Town Hall was
adorned for the occasion with chrysanthe-
mums.
On Friday morning the Duke stepped on
to the treadmill. “Keep ’em moving,” evi-
dently was the slogan of those who planned
the tour, and the pace has been so Lot that
Duchess Betty has been obliged to cave in,
for the second time. Her husband has had
to go visiting on his own, and take the posies
that were intended for a smaller hand.
Crowds' of disappointed people, mainly
women and children, mustered around
Praliran and Malvern when he looked in at
the Town Halls on his way to the Diggers’
Hospital at Caulfield and the Anzac Hostel
at Brighton. A cedar cigarette-box inlaid
with various woods and a blotter for the
Duchess were gifts from the Diggers.
A preliminary to the public reception at the
Exhibition on Friday afternoon was a gather-
ing at State Parliament House. It was a dull
affair. Royalty, after running the gauntlet
of waiting crowds, was ushered into the hall
by Premier Allan, Frank Clarke and his
lady, Mr. Speaker Bowser and his wife. Mrs.
Allan handed the Duchess an armful of pink
carnations and maple foliage. Betty of York
was charmingly coated in lame, patterned
in gold and brown, topped by a hat of her
own pet particular shape in pale amber satin.
Ministers and members, with their womenfolk,
passed by the Royal pair with nods or bobs;
there was no touching of hands.
THE DUKE AND HIS DUCHESS.
That ceremony over, the guests were
escorted over yards of red carpet into the
Exhibition Building, which is under the same
roof. The two seated themselves upon a
platform in the centre of the hall, which
had a forest of palms and bamboos at the
back and a grouping of huge chrysanthe-
mums in front. Then the crowd seethed in,
and hordes of policemen kept them moving
at such a rapid pace that they were drafted
at the rate of 170 a minute. There was an
outbreak of enthusiasm when a hastily-con-
structed stand was brought in to give the
Duke a little more elevation; lie had been
invisible to many. It was a good-humored
mob that passed along; lots of old people and
plenty of babies, and most of them got a
friendly wave from one or other of the
Yorks. After about 45 minutes time was
called and teacups were brought round.
Then, being strengthened for their task, the
Royal couple went on for another three-
quarters of an hour. Some flowers and a
couple of brown-paper parcels were passed
up to the Duke. One parcel bore the address
“Babv Elizabeth, care of the Duchess of
York.”
The Somers ball, held in the State Gov-
ernment House at Malvern, was a very plea-
sant affair. There was a lack of stiff for-
mality, and everybody was as genial and
friendly as at a private party. The ball-
room was a huge marquee linked to the
front of the residence hy a white-and-gold
sprinkled canopy over the steps. Light
refreshments were to be had in the dining-
room and more substantial fare was served
to the 600 guests in relays on the balconies
upstairs. The fair guests laid their wraps
upon the vice-regal bedsteads in homely
style, and felt they were friends of the
family. The impromptu ballroom had a
lining of pink, and white York roses shaded
the electric lights, hung amid garlands of
greenery and pink roses. Chrysanthemums,
palms and autumn foliage gladdened cosy
corner and sitting-rooms, and one met a
log-fire again. Though there was a drizzle
of rain, the garden, aglow with roses,_ was
gay with the crimson and gold of fairy lights.
The Duke and Duchess, who had dined
with the Somerses, made entrance to the
marquee through lines of guests roped back
with crimson cord, and there was a rippling
line of curtsies that would have raised the
envy of the Totem ballet in “Rose Marie.
The diminutive Royal lady, whose first part-
ner was the Governor, was all cloth of silver
and silver lace, with ropes of pearls and
a halo of diamonds in rose design. A faint
pink tulle scarf, a shoulder posy of pink
roses and a feather fan were accessories.
Lady. Somers wore raiment of cape mode
in sunset pink, encrusted with. green and
pink glistening sequins. Her jewels were
diamonds and emeralds and the prettiest of
twinkling tiaras set upon a pink bandeau.
The Countess of Cavan was clad in wine
hue, and rubies and brilliants sparkled upon
her hairband of gold. Mrs. Gilmour had
a trellis effect of green sequins upon pink
georgette. Phyllis Holmes Hunt, a pretty
brunette frocked in jade green, was the
envied of the younger set when she was
bidden to tread a measure with the Duke,
and equally envious were the glances cast
upon a youthful aide who had a dance with
the Duchess.
The Mayoress, who was, with her husband,
one of the guests of the dinner, wore a
ripple of diamente upon tile cape and train
of a black robe. The handsome Mrs. Wil-
shire contrasted Parma violet covering with
tier grey hair. Two women of commanding
type were Mrs. Otway Falkiner, .clothed in
crystal fringe and white georgette, and Mrs.
Walter Cass, sheathed in what; looked like
beaten silver, with ropes of pearls. Charlie
Lyons’s good-looking wife had a huge, white
chrysanthemum perched upon the shoulder
of her black velvet gown. Alec 1 eacock s
lady shimmered in black, and Mrs. Harold
Clapp chose bois-de-rose with some sparkling
appendages. The debs, included the J. A.
Gilrutlis’ daughter Margaret, Mary Sewell
and Elsa Andrew, the last in early-Victorian
attire of pink georgette inlet with silver
lace. A slim matron in a longish frocK ot
pink lined with silver attracted attention by
sporting a monocle, and a flapper with a
corsage of silver tissue and a skirt of flounces
of georgette in rainbow shades dangled a
lorgnette from a silver ribbon round her
neck. Chiffon taffeta and georgette and lots
0 f tulle flounces were favorites with hosts
of growing-up lassies.
Beds of golden blossoms brightened the
verdan t lawns of Flemington on Saturday
w i len the V.R.C. laid itself out to show the
Yorks our national pastime. The big event
carried as prize the gold cup presented by
<4 r to mark the historic occasion. Travel-
]j llg by ear f rom Federal Government House,
, he Royal visitors rode all the way through
cheering multitudes. Arrived at the course
in time for the first race, they climbed into
a horse-drawn carriage and were driven round
to the front of the stand in royal state, with
postillions, outriders and escort of -Light
Horse. The chairman of the V.R.C., with
Governor Somers and his lady, met them,
and a great outburst of cheering and an encore
performance of the h'-uin that takes hats off
settled the guests of honor in the v.-r.
enclosure. Later the G.-G. came with Lady
Stonehaven, and the Yorks, deep in their
racebooks, failed to recognise the anthem.
Suddenly the Duke realised that “Dad’s being
saved again’* (as Edward P. used to put
it) and grinned quite boyishly at being
caught napping. The Duchess wore a georg-
ette frock with brocaded coat and fur collar,
all of soft grey tone, and a cluster of pink
blossoms toppled from one side of her pink
hat. The Duke’s staff sported white carna-
tions in their buttonholes, causing those used
to local customs to suppose they were having
a “mothers’ day” celebration on their own.
Lady Stonehaven was a study in ruby velvet
with cape attachment, topped by millinery
of the same hue. Lady Somers looked smart
in a suit of black and white check, with
biscuit felt hat banded in blue and silver.
At the midday repast the V.R.C. committee
gave food and drink to Royalty, Federal vice-
royalty and sundry knights and commoners,
the tables aglow with roses from the Alister
Clarke garden. The State Governor had a
lunch-party of his own, and president Clarke
and his wife, she in saxe-blue, fed another
bunch. In the members’ luncheon-room and
the public restaurant waitresses murmured,
“Lor’, what a day!” for the world and his
wife had come early to sec the Duke arrive,
and had breakfasted sketchily. There were
famine riots over tables booked twice, and a
long early-door queue turned itself into a
most willing scrum when the portals opened.
By half-past two, when the field was lined
up for the King’s Cup, many were still
hungry and howling for sustenance. The
Duke and his pretty wife saw the race from
the old stand, and strolled across the lawn
to hand the trophy to the winner, W. Ley-
shon, owner of Spear Maiden. Apprentice
A. Fullarton, who got a great reception on .
bringing the gee-gee in, had handshakes and
congratulations from both the Duke and
Duchess, and was a proud lad. When the
gold goblet had been handed over the G.-G.
presented a gold-mounted whip to the clever
little rider. After facing a battery of cameras
Royalty wandered a while amid the people on
the Hill.
The day, though grey, was rainless and
not very cold. Taking no risks, feminine
society aired its best furs and winter suits,
and the men showed more swank than usual.
Belltoppers were common, and frock-coats
Happed everywhere. Womenfolk, especially
in their headgear, leaned towards bright
reds and petunia shades. Velvet coats and
frocks were popular, and there were lots of
black satin wraps. Lady Cavan covered her
gown with a bronze satin coat bordered with
skunk, and wore a mole felt hat; and Mrs.
Gilmour favored burgundy hue in coat ami
millinery. Primiuister Bruce’s wife chose
mole fur, and the Robert Knox matron was
caped and gowned in fawn kasha with a
harmonising hat. Among the smartly-dressed
in the v.-r. enclosure was Mrs. Cyril Lansell,
in musliroom-pink. Mrs. St. Leger Robert-
son had gold tracery upon a cigar-brown
frock, with a golden-brown velvet, hat.
Thomas Hughes and his lady, from the
Harbor City, were patrons.
Once a soldier always a soldier was the
impression given to onlookers as 27,000 men
swung along past Parliament House on
Anzac Day. The Duke took the salute and
seemed immensely pleased with the turn-out.
A huge crowd gathered when he placed a
white wreath on the Cenotaph. The Duchess,
all in black, stood by the G.-G. Lord Somers,
who was in khaki, looked a real Digger.
Lady Stonehaven, Lady Somers, the Countess
of Cavan, Mrs. Gilmour, General Cliauvel’s
lady. Mayoress Morell, Mrs. S. M. Bruce and
the few others in the Royal enclosure were all
black gowned and- hatted. The march past
was preceded by a parade of invalid soldiers
and cot eases in lorries and cars. About the
first salute was that of a bed-ridden Aussie.
Most touching was the company of blinded
soldiers who marched arm in arm with their
own banner. Sightless eyes were turned
towards the Duke. The many King’s Colors,
with their guards, that headed divisions
added lustre to the scene. Hats were raised
and ladies in the Royal box stood as they
passed. The Renown band led the march,
with the Royal Marines. General Monash
was once more at the head of his Diggers.
Extra units from the Maoriland, South
African and Imperial forces helped to make
a memorable sight. There was a wonderful
display of flowers on the Cenotaph, the
Federal and State Government Houses being
among tribute givers. Thirty V.C.’s laid a
special wreath and were loudly cheered.
Though mostly a grey day, the sun shone
brightly during the march past the saluting
base.
The Duke went on to a memorial service
at the Exhibition Building, and the Duchess,
after afternoon tea, returned to Government
House. The policemen's lot was not a happy
one, for the crowd broke out of hounds many
times, and even with the assistance of
mounted troopers order was difficult. A day
not easily forgotten here was Anzac Day.
Quite a bunch of notables has dropped
on this city just in time to smile on the York
festivities. - Lord Hobart, eldest son of the
Earl of Buckinghamshire, who has _ been
sampling sunshine in Bananaland. is at
Menzies’, where his sister, Lady Dorothy,
and her husband, the Hon. Claude Morley,
are also located.


d
Colombo, Aden, Port Sudan and Suez
are rich in the mystery and gay colorings
of the Ancient East, and the passenger on
a P. and O. steamer finds every mile of
the delightful voyage from Australia to
Marseilles and London brimming with
interest, pleasure and education.
Write for booklet in colors No. 115
V 1 A
?o7
p aF£
P &.0 S.N.Co.
Macdonald, Hamilton & Co.,
Agents,
247 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY
A new and special line of
Jacket Sweaters
These distinctive Jacket Sweaters, made in Australia
•for Peapes, of the finest Australian wool, introduce an
entirely new standard of values in superior woollen
garments.
«Bi
Evenly and elastically
ivoven, they are both pro-
tective and comfortable.
They are excellent either
for sports or lounge wear
or for wear under a sac
coat for the street in lieu
of a heavy overcoat.
They have V neck and
button front, and are
available in Grey Heather
or Qrecn Heather
mixtures.
M.
17/6
o.s.
18/6
X.O.S.
19/6
Peapes pay postage
Please state chest measurement and colour
Peapes & Co. Ltd.
Men’s and Boys’ Outfitters
George St. (opp. Hunter St.) Sydney
Peapes’ Block Amber Cigar Holders
Gold-mounted, 27/6, 72/6, 87/6
COMMONWEALTH LOAN.
Cash and Conversion.
Interest 5i per cent. Price of issue Par.
Loan to be Repaid in 1933 9 1938 or 1943 .
Cash Subscriptions. Amount asked for £4,250,000
Full information may be obtained from, and
applications for the Loan lodged with, any Bank
or State Savings Bank, any Money Order Post
Office, or any Member of a recognised Stock
Exchange.
Cash subscribed may be paid in full or by
instalments.
Conversion of 6% Commonwealth Loan Maturing
on 31st May, 1927.
All Holders of Commonwealth 6 p.c. Inscribed
Stock and Treasury Bonds maturing on 31 st May,
1 927, are invited to convert their holdings into an
equal amount of per cent. Stock or Bonds or
this New Loan.
Any Stock or Bonds not converted will be paid off
on 3 Ist May, 1927; or, if desired, will be paid off
at any time between 20th April and 21st May,
1927, with interest calculated up to date of
payment.
The National Debt Commission has set aside
£1,000,000 of its funds for the redemption of
Stock and Bonds of this maturing Loan.
Interest will be subject to Commonwealth
taxation, but will be free of State Income Tax.
The issue is an investment authorised by the
Trustees Acts of the several States.
Commonwealth Treasury. EARLE P^CE,
ZJTtf
ti!M t
2
9
3
8
Three
Supreme
Essentials
In any watch three supreme
essentials are Accuracy,
Durablity, and Value. In
an Elgin these essentials
reach perfection, with the
added merit of supreme
beauty of design.
Elgin—the watchword for
Elegance and Efficiency
OBTAINABLE AT ALL LEADING JEWELLERS
THIS TRADE MARK
ď
IN THE WATCH CASE


The Bank of Adelaide.
SIXTY-FIRST ANNUAL REPORT OF THE
DIRECTORS TO THE SHAREHOLDERS.
The Directors have pleasure in submitting herewith for the information of Share-
holders the Balance Sheet of the Bank as on 28th March, 1927, and Statements of
Profit and Loss and the Reserve Fund on the same date: —
The Balance of Profit and Loss for the year ended 28th March, 1927
(including the Balance brought forward from previous year,
£24,974 ss. 3d.) amounts to .. .. .. •• •• ..£129,618 14 .)
Out Of which an Interim Dividend at the rate of 10 per cent, per annum (
was paid in November last .. .. . . . . • • • • • • 43,750 0 0
Leaving available . . .. .. .. . . . . .. . • • • £85,868 14 9
From which it is proposed to pay a Dividend at the rate of 10 per
cent, per annum on the old shares . . . . £43,750 0 0
and at the rate of 10 per cent, per annum calculated to
28tli March, 1927. on the instalments paid on the
new (Shares from the respective dates on which
such amounts were payable . . .. . . . . 2,291 13 4
£46,041 13 4
leaving a balance to carry forward of .. .. . . . • • • £39,827 1 5
The 25.000 new shares, the issue of which was authorised by the Shareholders on
27tli October, 1926, were offered to the Shareholders at £7 per share (£5 being Capita',
and £2 Premium). The shares have all been taken up and paid for, and the £5 per share
—£32s,ooo —has been added to the Bank's Capital, making it £1,000,000, (and the
Premium of £2 per share, £50.000. has been credited to the Reserve Fund, making it
£850,000.
During the year a Branch lias been opened at Gouger Street. Adelaide, and Agencies
at Glen Osmond, Ja'ouk, Poochera, Veitch, Wirrulla and Woodville; and the Agencies
at Kingston on Murray, Maggea, Mantung, Penong and Red Hill have been closed.
Premises have been purchased at Queen Street, Brisbane, Queensland, and are being
adapted to our requirements. On completion of the necessary alterations a Branch
will be opened there at an early date.
The General Annual Meeting will be held in .the Board Room at the Head Office
of the Bank, King William Street, Adelaide, on Wednesday, 4th May, 1927, at 10.30 a.m. .
at which the Shareholders will be called upon to elect two Directors in place of Arthur
Waterhouse, Esq., and Howard Watson Lloyd, Esq., who retire by rotation and, being
eligible, offer themselves for re-election.
The Shareholders will have to elect two Auditors for the ensuing year, and fix the
remuneration of the* retiring Auditors.
By order of the Board of Directors.
R. S. YOUNG, Superintendent.
Balance Sheet, 2Sth March, 1927.
LIABILITIES.
Capital paid
up ..£1,000,000 0 0
Reserve
Fund .. 850,000 0 0
Profit and
Loss .. 85,868 14 9
£8,926,355 19 1
Contingent Liabilities, con-
sisting of Letters of
Credit, etc. . . .. *333,407 17 10
ASSETS.
Specie, Bul-
lion and
Cash
Balances .£483,814 2 !J
A u s tralian
Notes and
Cash with
Com mon-
wealth
Bank .. 724,288 9 S
G o vernment
Securities 834,037 11 0
M u nicipal
Debentures. 4,350 0 0
Money a t
short call. 332,300 0 0
Balances due
from other
Banks .. 284,391 2 8
Notes of
other Banks 2,131 10 0
It c mittanees
in Transitu 661,232 2 6
£3,326 544 18
Bank Premises and Furniture 342,991 17
Bills Receivable and all
other Advances .. .. 5,256,819 3 4
£8,926,355 19 1
Liabilities of Customers on
Letters of Credit, etc., as
per Contra .. .. £333,407 17 10
lv
Profit and Loss Account.
YEAR FROM 29tli MARCH, 1926, TO 28th MARCH, 1927.
0 0
To Reserve
Fund, as
below . . . .£20,000
Dividend in
May, 1920 .. 43,750 0 0
Dividend in
N o v e in ber,
1920.. .. 43,750 0 0
'■ £107,500 0 0
Balance 85.808 14 9
£193,368 14 9
Bv Balance, 29tli March,
1926 £88,724 5 3
Net Profit, including Re-
coveries, and after mak-
ing provision for Bad
and Doubtful Debts, in-
terest accrued on Fixed
Deposits, and Rebate on
Bills Discounted, and de-
ducting Expenses at
Head Office and 62
Branches, including Sala-
ries, Rents, Taxes, etc.. . 104,644 9 6
£193,368 14 9
Reserve Fund.
To Balance at this Date
..£850.000 0 0
£850,000 0 0
By Balance. 29tli March,
1926 .£780,000 0 0
Transfer from Profit and
Loss, May, 1928.. .. 20,000 0 0
Premium on New Issue
Shares .. .. .. 50,000 0 0
£850,000 0 0
R. S. YOUNG, Superintendent.
W. P. COTTRELL, Accountant.
ARTHUR WA TERHOUSE
.lAS. R. FOWLER
HO WAR! > W. LLOYD
A. G. RYMILL
Directors.
We have compared the above Balance Sheet with the Books and Accounts of The
Bank of Adelaide for the Year ending 28th March, 3927, and certify that it is a correct
abstract of the same. We have counted the Cash and examined the Bills and Govern-
ment and Municipal Securities on hand at the Head Office —the Assets and Liabilities at
the Branches other than London have been taken on the certificates of the Managers
and Accountants of the respective Branches, and those of the London Branch as cabled
by the London Manager.
Adelaide, 13th April, 1927.
WILLTAM NEILL, F.C.P.A. 1
G. R. ANNELLS. F.O.P.A. J
Auditors.
THE LITTLE SISTERS.
QUEENSLAND.
Brisbane.
Brisbane confesses to a very quiet Easter
and less traffic on the railways than usual.
We can’t keep going all the time —the excite-
ment of the ducal visit left its reactions. Ihe
weather has been perfect: the nights have
been blue flowers with silver-moon hearts. A
crispness in the air whispers of winter not
far away in this most delightful autumn
climate of the world.
Red and yellow dahlias nodded in a light
wind on the lawns at Ascot for the first
Easter meeting, and the Q.T.C. band played.
Mrs. Isaac Moore and Mrs. Henderson gave
teas on the committee-room verandah. Mrs.
Glyn Connolly wore navy with touches o.
royal blue and gold; Mrs. Gilbert W llson,
just returned from a long holiday, was m
black mariette; Mrs. Edwin Lilley chose
mastic and navy; Mrs. .1. K. Jeffrey was in
plum tints with white fox furs; Tessa Read-
ing was in blue with white furs ; Olga Barnes
ivore a rose silk jersey; Iris Buchanan chose
blue with brown hat; Cecily Cadell-Garrick
was in blue and red patterned crepe de Chine,
with blue felt cloche.
The A. H. Whittinghams came back by the
< )rama last week, after a long stay in the
(’old Countries.
There were two wedding feasts in the Carl-
ton on one night last week. The McCarthy-
Abrahams party was at a table decked in
pink and blue tulle and rose petals, with
silver vases of roses and a crescent of pmk
dahlias, and the wedding guests were at
smaller tables, with chains of pastel-liued
dahlias and vases of pink dahlias. The mam
lounge housed the table of the Hayes-Lane
marriage. Pale tinted ribbons came from
the bridal cake, with looped pink streamers
and posies of roses. Puffings of pink and blue
tulle and silver vases of gladioli and chrysan-
themums were on the guests ? tables.
Mrs. Nettie Palmer read a paper on Aus-
tralian novelists before the Authors and
Artists’ Society. Professor Stable presiding.
Henry Handel Richardson, Chester Cobb and
Katharine Susannah Prichard were the
novelists chosen. Merna Gillies arranged
the music.
The Firm tried another week of vaudeville
at His Majesty’s, this time with a good deal
of success; even the matinees had full houses.
The French dancers, the “Athena” living sta-
tuary and Tom Kelly, the Irish comedian,
-were the best part of it, and the Spanish
Jovers pleased the crowd, too. Allan Wilkie
followed in “Henry VIII.” The Veterans of
Variety are back at the Empire.
Luis Amadeo Pares, Consul for Bolivia,
had a musicale at the Hall of the Muses on
a recent evening. Lieut.-Gov. William
Lennon, the Comte de Tournouer, members of
the Alliance Franqais and El Canto Espagnol,
the Tardeut famiiy, Mrs. M. Forrest, Senor
Ilia, Von Ploennies and others gathered to
hear Professor Eliu, the Russian singer, who
was leading baritone of the Marlinsk Grand
Opera House at Petrograd before it was
Leningrad. The cheerful Spanish olive and the
good red wine were passed round amongst
the guests by Majordomo Victor, himself at
one time in grand opera. He finished the
evening with “Funiculi Funicula,” tossing
roses amongst the audience to their delight.
Madame Bolhova wore silver tissue, her net
tunic being embossed in gold. Gertrude
Anderson was in coral charmante.
Mrs. Nicholson and Mrs. A. Moore had a
dance for Jean Anderson, who is shortly to
marry Mervyn Nicholson. Balloons, Orien-
tal sunshades and bright streamers decorated
the hall at Indooroopilly and pink roses
decked the supper-tables.
The Windsor Croquet Club had its after-
noon under blue skies. Mrs. Hall, who re-
ceived the guests, wore coral and a black silk
coat. Flags, early chrysanthemums and
greenery dressed up the club-house.
This is a Poulsen Studio portrait of Bar-
bara Sisley, Avho teaches what used to be
called elocution, and now is known, as speaking,
in all the prin-
cipal schools
i n Brisbane.
Her produc-
tion of A. A.
Milne’s com-
edy “Make
Believe” fo r
the Creche and
Kind ergarten
benefit raised
£2OO. All her
little pupils
took part. She
has also scored
many Eistedd-
fod wins with
pupils, and is
responsible for
the launching
of the Brisbane
Repertory. She
produced “The
Dover Road”
and “A Bill of Divorcement,” in which latter
she played Margaret. Also she produced the
Greek dramas “Trojan Women” and “Iphi-
geuia,” taking a leading part in each. Mrs.
Forrest’s welcome poem to the Duchess was
given by Miss Sisley and broadcasted. The
lndv is tall and graceful, with brown eyes
and hair.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA.
Adelaide.
Dances to come include one to help the
Oirl Guides —it’s to be in the new Masonic
Temple on Empire Day. Plans were made at
a meeting at Government House, where a
committee of 60 or so allied themselves with
Lady Bridges in a vow to make the show a
success. Mrs. Armstrong and Mr. W. G.
Gunson are secretaries. A St. Mark’s Col-
lege dance falls in Royal visit week.
The H. H. Wiggs leave for England in
May, and Mrs. Ross and her daughter sail
in the Anchises in June. Mr. Bob Melrose
was a guest at one of the teas the Queen is
giving at Buckingham Palace. The Vil-
leneuve Smiths are still on the Continent.
The Blue Sisters plan a general hospital
(free, or with low fees) as an adjunct to the
one they have run for years in North Adel-
aide —hence a fete opened by the Governor
a few nights ago. £lO.OOO is wanted for the
first wing, and £7OOO is in hand.
Paderewski’s visit reminds us for the nth
time of the nuisance of the Post Office chimes
-—just opposite the Town Hall and with a
malignant genius for striking at the moment
most trying to temperamental musicians and
their audiences. A request has now gone to
headquarters for them to be muffled during
concerts, as in Sydney. Meanwhile artists
might save some of the trouble by not begin-
ning a number at two minutes to nine.
Canon Milne, precentor of the Cathedral
since mother’s day, has resigned and is run-
ning the usual gauntlet of farewells.
There were debutantes in plenty at the
Dudley Turners’ dance—Phyllis Forwood, all
ivory and silver, for whom the frivol was
given, and eight of her friends. The eight
included a Slancy Poole daughter, Joan
Smeaton, the R. H. Hamiltons’ daughter,
Kathleen Cudmore, Margery Sabine, and an-
other Kathleen, daughter of the Claude
Lucases of Anlaby. The hostess herself was
in pink, and pink struck the color note of the
decorations —roses and delphiniums in the
drawing-room, a pink-and-white dancing mar-
quee, and more pink in the supper tent. In
the smoking-room the color deepened to
autumn leaves and golden roses, and in the
dining-room there were delphiniums, with
dahlias, gladioli and autumn leaves. Guests
included Lady Bridges, in black and silver;
Mrs. Gerald Armstrong, also in black; Mrs.
Giles, 'whose frock was a-shimmer with
sequins; Mrs. Compton Trew, whose cream
frock rioted in beaded flowers: Mrs. It.
Legoe, with rose-color gleaming through blue
georgette, and her sister, Ursula Barr Smith,
in filmv black.
Home-comers include the T. O’Halloran
Gileses and the Kyffin Thomases —Kyffin
Thomas quite fit again after his long illness
in England. Mrs. William Holden was
hostess at a farewell to Mrs. Guy Beres-
ford and Mrs. Clifford Cornell in her home
at Toorak, in a setting of Abel Chateney
roses and pink phlox.
And, speaking of Royal visits, the car-
riage that was brought to Australia for the
Duke of Edinburgh’s use in the ’sixties has
been auctioned and knocked down —for 36
shillings!
If there is a society in South Aus. to
which Easter spells no holiday, it is
the S.P.C.A.
Motoring has
done a lot to
relieve the
suffering o f
hard - driven
and underfed
horses, but
there are still
hundreds o n
the Oakbank-
road, and the
society scat-
ters its in-
spectors all
through th e
hills to keep
a protecting
eye on them.
Herewith i s
Miss R u t h
Robin, for a
good many
years now the
society’s secre-
tary and the mainspring of much of its
success.
WESTRAiiIA.
Perth.
The gods were kind for Easter. The gee-
gees galloped in glorious weather at Belmont,
and lady punters lost their money more or
less cheerfully in summery frocking. Lady
Campion enlivened the vice-regal pen with
bois-de-rose and cream lace. Mrs. Kerr-
Pearse chose mist-grey georgette, chairman
Ernest Lee Steere’s lady was handsome in
blue, and Mrs. Marrillier, who accompanied
her secretary husband, was gowned in navy.
Five days of champion play drew hundreds
of interested spectators to the King’s Park
courts for the Easter tournament. Bright
flower-beds, neatly clipped green hedges and
a score of velvety courts in perfect con-
dition made a striking background fov snowy-
garbed competitors. The O’Hara Woods came
from Vic.; Mrs. Pat, whose brilliant play
and winning personality captured all hearts,
set the fashion of pleated-all-the-way-round
tennis frocks. She carried off the singles
championship, helped Pat win the mixed
doubles, and, partnered by a promising junior.
Joan Eyres, annexed the ladies’ doubles. The
pavilion was crowded during the final days,
and his Ex.’s party took shelter under a giant
umbrella striped in salmon and black with a
gold fringe. Lady Campion applauded in a
smart gown of navy and petunia. Mrs.
McGibbon and Mrs. Buchanan helped Mrs.
Law and her girl helpers to provide teas and
lunches in the pretty restaurant under the
pavilion, and secretary “Jumbo” Evans and
an experienced committee oiled the wheels.
Fairbridge Farm School has a new matron.
Jean Birt. This energetic social worker is
fresh from an English trip, during which she
studied methods in Barnado homes, return-
ing as chaperon to a group of emigrant
lassies. She and her Fairbridge charges
are getting ready now for a Royal visit.
TASMANIA.
Hobart.
Kathleen Lawrence, only chick of the
Norman Pearces, made her vows to Robert
Baird, son of Bishop and Mrs. Hay, at St.
David’s Cathedral on a recent afternoon,
clad in pale gold, the long narrow train being
of a darker shade and finished at the foot
with gold lace. A rare old creamy lace veil
arranged cap fashion and caught with posies
of orange-blossom buds on either side made
a complete cover-all for the dainty little
bride. Her two ’maids were turned out in
pale delphinium blue and silver lace, topped
with black picture hats with long blue ostrich
plumes. Bunches of dark-lined delphinium
gave the finishing touch.
Little Princess Elizabeth’s first birthday
will live in the memory of over 50 girl
inmates of the Clarendon Homes. New Town,
who were given a party on that day by Miss
Mary Lilley: the huge birthday cake, with
its one candle, was a source of delight.
Among the 25 addresses pushed into the
hands of the Yorks in Hobart was one from
five women scribes, who proudly called them-
selves the “Southern Tasmanian Women
Journalists.”


FOR
ARCHITECTS, ARTISTS, DESIGNERS,
DRAUGHTSMEN & OFFICE USE.
| fviv'x,: !
’W
% J\
‘MADE
mat'
aaaarm MKiid
Amusements.
EMPIRE THEATRE,
Railway Square, adjoining Saunders’ Corner,
in Quay Street, Sydney.
Rufe Naylor has the honor to present
2/6 “SUNNY” 5/6
vfiy arrangement with Chas. Dillingham, N.Y.)
PLAYING to capacity nightly.
“SUNNY” commences at 7.45 sharp. Orchestral
items from 7.30.
Reserves at Theatre (M.A. 1000), Nicholson’s,
Paling’s, Hotel Australia, Usher’s, Carlton, Samuel’s.
Matinges Wednesday and Saturday at 2.
Theatre Box Office Hours: 9 to 3, 4 to 9.
SYDNEY'S CHIEF THEATRES.
J. C. WILLTAMSON, LTD., present
HER MAJESTY’S: FRASQUITA.
CRITERION:
THE CRADLESNATCHERS.
ROYAL:
SWEET NELL OF OLD DRURY.
PALACE: SIX-CYLINDER LOVE.
CULLERS’ THEATRE, SYDNEY.
. Twice Daily, 2.30 and 8.
STIFFY AND MO.
OPERA HOUSE, SYDNEY.
Prop.: Geo. Marlow. Direction William Russell.
FRANK NEIL’S COMEDIANS in
in
CHARLEY’S AUNT.
jOICKARDS’ TIVOLI THEATRES.
' * Lessees: llarrv Rickards’ Tivoli Theatres, Ltd.
MELBOURNE and SYDNEY.
TWICE EVERY DAY—2.3O and 8.
CELERI\ITY VA UDEVILLE.
The World’s Best.
BROS. LIMITED.
Governing Directors: Messrs. Philip & George Wirth.
THE GREATEST SHOW ON EARTH.
THIS YEAR’S ALL NEW PROGRAMME
Bewilders the Audience with its THRILLS,
VARIETY and NOVELTY ACTS that stagger the
Imagi nation.
HIPPODROME, Haymarket, Sydney,
at 8 p.m.
Matinees Saturdays, Wednesdays and Holidays.
J C. WILLIAMSON, LTD.,
MELBOURNE ATTRACTIONS.
HIS MAJESTY’S: ROSE MARIE.
KING’S THEATRE: THE GREEN HAT.
THEATRE ROYAL: THE RINGER.
pRINCESS THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
EVERY EVENING AT 8.
Welcome return of the Eminent Actress,
MURIEL STARR,
In Gladys Unger’s Brilliant Play,
THE GOLDFISH.
Box Plan at Glen’s.
A THBNJIUM THEATRE,
** MELBOURNE.
Proprietor: Frank Talbot Pty., Ltd.
Lessee: E. J. Carroll.
COMMENCING SATURDAY, APRIL 30.
E. J. CARROLL Presents,
By Arrangement with Richard White and Eric Edgley,
The Delightfully Funny Three-act Comedy,
THE UNFAIR SEX.
Plans at Allan’s.
JUJEW BIJOU THEATRE, MELBOURNE
Twice Daily, 2.30 and 8.
PHIL SMITH REVUE CO.
Popular Prices. Plan Cen. 3251.
|V|AJESTIC THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
ROYAL VISIT CONTINUED.
Warner Brothers’ Comedy,
THREE WEEKS IN PARIS,
featuring
MAT MOORE and DOROTHY DEVORE.
Scream from first scene to final fade-out.
Box Plan at Allan’s & Theatre. ’Phone 7076 & 7790.
UOYT’S D E LUXE THEATRE,
n MELBOURNE.
BIGGER THAN BARNUM’S,
With RALPH LEWIS and VIOLA DANA.
ALSO
DOROTHY MACKAILL and LEON ERROL IN
THE LUNATIC AT LARGE.
Prices as usual.
/TuDITORIUM, MELBOURNE.
H Commencing WEDNESDAY, MAY 4.
J. and N. Tait present that remarkable artist,
PADEREWSKI.
Plans at Allan’s.
&
&
0*
9?
Top Prices at Winchcombe-Carson’s sales
are an encouragement tor skin-getters to make war
on the rabbit.
The firm’s work is reliable and capable. As a
result buyers operate with confidence at Winch-
combe-Carson auctions, and owners consistently secure
full market values.
CONSIGN SKINS:
WINCHCOMBE, CARSON
LTD.
SYDNEY OR BRISBANE.
Short - Story Writing.
One of the most widely known Editors and
Journalists in Australia, at present conducting
a leading magazine, has prepared
A COURSE
which will set all beginners in the
Art of Short-Story Writing
on the road to earning cheques Here and
Overseas. For particulars apply
AUSTRALIAN AUTHORS’
LITERARY AGENCY,
Bank of Australasia Chambers,
28 Bond Street, Sydney.
To Authors and Musical
Composers.
Arrangements have been made for a
Branch in England to place Australian
Authors’ Novels, Musical Compositions,
Drawings, Short Stories, etc., to the
best advantage, on a commission basis
only.
MSS. retyped. Music copied, re-written, trans-
posed or orchestrated. For particulars apply
AUSTRALIAN AUTHORS’
LITERARY AGENCY,
28 Bond Street, Sydney.
aselme
SftSwJXSB
X
Vaseline
TRADE MARK
PETROLEUM JELLY
FOR MINOR CUTS
Wash under running water,
and apply “Vaseline” Jelly.
Helps nature to heal, helps
prevent scars. Soothing,
pleasant, entirely safe.
Look for the Trade Mark “Vaseline "
It is your protection
Chesebrough Mfg. Co., Cons’d
New York London Montreal
Position Vacant.
THE CAIRNS HARBOR BOARD.
A PPLICATIONS are invited by the Cairns
Harbor Board (North Queensland)
for a qualified and experienced Civil
Engineer for the position of Engineer to the
Board.
Applicants to state age, qualifications and
experience, and whether married or single.
Applicants must have practical experience
in concrete work, and reinforced wharf con-
struction, and general harbor works, and be
capable of taking control of the whole of the
Board’s Dredging Plant (Suction and
Bucket) and construction operations, includ-
ing Cold Storage Works, Mechanical Sugar
Conveyors (electrically driven), Electric
Cranes and other Plant and Workshop.
Applicants should have a knowledge of
electrical machinery.
No private practice allowed.
Salary at the rate of £750 per annum.
Three (3) months’ notice on either side
to terminate engagement.
Applicant to be in a position to take up
his duties on the Bth August, 1927.
Applications to be endorsed “Application
for Engineer” and addressed to the Chairman.
Applications close at 10 o'clock a.m. on
Tuesday, 14tli June, 1927.
T. R. HALL,
Secretary.
Answers to Correspondents.
So notice (except of a hostile character ) will he.
taken of communications insufficiently stamped.
Same and address must appear on the MS. So
liability is undertaken re contributions volun-
tarily submitted; and no MS. will be returned
unless stamps accompany.
P.C.C.: The snails eat up too much space.
... . 8.0. W.: Can’t believe that such a inan could not
write his own name... wP.L.B.: “Nocturne” is an E-
flat yarn... .N.McO.: You grill your story over a very
slow fire of interest... .L.F.Y.: Some lines are simply
awkward prose; but “Oratory” would be worth
rewriting... .W.H.L.: No.. . . Iv.D.S.: “Sinew our arms
to cleave in twain”—cleave what in twain?....
Jean W.: Merely a tinkle... .0.R.M.: Your rhymed
description of a fat man is a vast waste....
E.L.C.: Back it goes.... Salome Y.: Naughty,
naughty!... .Daphne L.; Still fails; and before you
use red typewriting ribbons, remember that lino-
men have the instincts of bulls about red.. .H.G.8.:
Good yarn peters 0ut.... Gen T.: Don’t care for
your old squires or ycur “manner” houses....
J.H.S.: Your “Old Tree” has a poor timbre....
C.L.S. : There is always an easier pardon for the man
who gets to his story, and does his worst, than for
the man who does his worst first. .. .E.E.8.; Long
drawn out for slight point. .. .W. 8.; Foggily told. . .
Sgt. 399; Sorry; commonplace... .J.8.L.: Glad you
paused in the middle of the ecstasy “to satisfy the
inner man.” It rather spoils the verse, though....
O. : Dull temperance tract... .E.W.0’8.: You
tried to climb a precipice and fell badly. You might
make a good thing of the idea... .Bil-Bul: Webster
defines “pointing” as “to designate in a special
way”—not necessarily with a finger. It might have
been better expressed.... Bismarck: Well, here’s your
heroine:—
Once she was so innocent,
Full of charm and sweet agility;
But upon the stage she did went—
But stay! Who is responsibility ?
....Sayso: That's silly. There are many hymns that
are not “just tripe.” Cowper’s, for instance....
Eileen G.: Not badly done, on the whole, but some
of your lines don’t scan.... Enid C.: Awkward
rhymes... .F.J.O. (Camberwell): Correct enough,
but uninspired T.H.C.: Nothing in it J.C.H.:
“The Answer” is in the negative... .D. Wish: We
don’t care for it... .E.G.P.: We try to assuage
contributors’ anxiety as soon as possible. If rejected
on first reading, stuff goes back (when stamps are
enclosed) inside five days. Most other matter for Red
Page or fiction pages is paid for within a week;
but sometimes an item that is balancing between
acceptance and rejection may hang fire. Either that
or no stamps is your trouble... .The Bear: Pencilled
writing was hard to read; but the reason of the
verses was harder to find.... J.G.J.: “Contentment
—ointment; enjoyment—moment.” Do you think
these are rhymes? Dorothy D.: Too thin... .Peter
Hope: Would make a par H.E.R.: Far-fetched.
John Henry: Gay dogl But it’s a joke that
has been told in four lines T.E.O’D.: Tails into
awkwardness R.D.: Very weak effort....M.G.:
The verses fall downstairs... .Ada H. B.: One may
do Ripponlea: Particularly we like the way Neme-
sis falls:—
“Harken to me, Honest Jonathan Brown,
Soap-maker, tallow-merchant and tanner I
You shall not establish a beastly boiling-down
Works near Cocqrooke Manor.”
Ere these words, Jan Brown had sagged humbly,
But now he gave a sudden, dazed start;
And with a stupid, incredulous mumble, he
Gazed at Sir Evelyn Byrdlyme-Haugh, Bart.
Th’ squire’s wife came in. No one heard her:
Else she’d never of seen that slaughterous deed,
Which culminated i’ th’ squire’s mutilating murder •
Nay, nor seen the rivulet of his cobalt bleed.
She rushed at the murderer with soul-straining screak.
To bewail him of his grim, bloody sin.
But ere did she ope her orifice to speak,
She tripped, striking her chin.
Then through the window Brown hastily got,
To flee protected by th’ nocturnal gloom.
But in his remorseful terror, he’d forgot
He was stepping out of an upstairs room.
. ...T.M.S.: The verse is as rough as the methods
it describes... .J.S.H.: Your heroine would be worth
a par Enid P. C.: Tom’s discovery of the Girl
Guides is too thrilling for words —in The Bulletin,
anyway. .. .Mary E. L.: The dream-story fails to
impress... .Pat: Those “wild one-eyed women who
want to wear trousers” are getting monotonous....
Pasca: The silence meant that it was worth further
consideration; this one has a chance Binji Bill:
Impossible to rectify their errors, but when you
adopt a verse-form stick to it till the job is done,
minding both the scansion and the rhyme... .R.C.H.
(Wellington, M.L.) : Forced effects F.S.M.: Too
slight for Bulletin .... James C. (Mosman) : Not bad ;
but in places it’s as tangled as a dog chasing its
tail. .. .Betty B.: Similes are overstrained A.E.M.:
The covering note is a gem: “Please find enclosed
MS. which actually happened in that country.”
Jim D.: Pencil your copy again, and you’ll be slaugh-
tered... .J.T.M.: “Seagull” flies home. One may
d 0.... A.H.A. (Melb.): There is no real lightning
in your storm.... G.E.W.: The man goes broke and
takes a job. Well, well! D.MeM.: Not even the
final “h —1” justifies it... .R.C.H.: Topical verse
must have snap. . . .J.H.S.: Too long-drawn-out.. . .
M.K.E.: Telling all about people and then killing
them is not the way to make a story. .. .Dorothy K.:
Neither is told in a workmanlike manner Leonore:
You spoil what should be a good sketch R. J.J.A.:
Not worth story-space Una C.: “The Tree” is
a wooden production F.8.C.: The humorous “Ode”
is almost as dull as a mayoral speech... .V.C.W.:
Done too often Paris: It lacks snap
Latham A.: A little thing like that should be per-
fect in form. A dawn-morn rhyme to end on
spoils it D.S.H.: Half-way through the second
page you say, “But we mustn’t linger.” Evidently
you know your own failing... .H.E.C.: “Medicine”
a shortweight in interest B. Wood: “Autumn”
is the same autumn.... Flip : Flop., . .Orion: Unsuit-
able. .. .C.W.J.: Just words... .Colin B.: (1) Double
rhymes spoil the symmetry; (2) slight and vague.
.. . .R.P.R.S.: Full of improbabilities, including the
captain.
TO ARTISTIC (AND INARTISTIC)
CORRESPONDENTS.
J.M.: The curate who mistakes the archdeacon’s
calves for a flapper’s has called on us before....
P. : Too stiff... .8.A.C.: Nothing to brag about
in that 10t... .E.N.W.: The joke is the tragedy of
it. .. . A.T.H.: You have committed every conceivable
artistic crime... .P.J.: Keep on trying, but not here
until you improve a t0n....W.F.: Your cook and
constable are duds... .S.R.D.: What causes the fur-
niture to float about the room? 8.C.: Illustra-
tion doesn’t fit the gag....R.G.: You don’t live up
to the laudation you hand to yourself... .C.R.:
Your picture of Bruce looks as if it had been
televisioned through a thunderstorm.
THE INKY WAY.
“Wingella”: Herewith an entry for the
Mixed Metaphor Stakes from a letter to the
Darwin Northern Standard (22/3/’27)
Should ambitious hopes burn to shed the light
on this sodden, sordid age, summed up in cents and
dollars, it is advisable to fire lower and lay them
out, so that the rebound will bear less bitter fruit.
“Mudguts”: Neither the Sydney Sun nor
Brisbane Courier is the first Australian
paper to utilise the aeroplane for distri-
buting its product. When C. J. De Garis
set going the Sunraysia Daily, in Octo-
ber, 1920, papers were delivered from Mil-
dura to Renmark (about 90 miles) every
morning for three months by ’plane.
“P.X.”: My old colleague, The Bul-
letin’s racing man, whose extraordinary
tipping was the most remarkable thing done
in any Australian newspaper office during
the Easter season, had a whole 30s. on his
choice, Piastoon, for the Sydney Cup. His
habit is to limit himself strictly to 10s.
This time he liked his choice so well that
he decided to plunge—and he trebled his
usual half-sovereign bet.
Syd Deamer, chief sub. of Melb. Herald.
has been re-elected general president of
the A.J.A. He will lead the representatives
of the Federal Council of the organisation
when they meet the Australian metropolitan
daily proprietors at the tribunal in Novem-
ber to revise existing conditions.
The correspondents of the Melbourne
dailies sounded hitherto unplumbed depths
when the Duke and Duchess struck Sydney,
but it remained for the special reporter of
the Argus to take the complete header:
“After a delightful trip to the Blue Moun-
tains, the Duke and Duchess of York re-
turned to Sydney late this afternoon to
receive from crow r ds at the Central Station
a demonstration of affection and loyalty
which clearly showed how much they had
been missed in their brief absence.”
Sydney Telegraph has at last tired of
struggling in the old way and has changed its
form—this mainly on the recommendation of
A. G. Wise, formerly of Melbourne Herald
and appointed to the Telegraph board at
the last annual meeting. The idea is to pro-
duce a paper as much like the London penny
pictorials as possible—a small sheet with
columns 17in. long. Run on the same lines,
the Sun Pictorial _in Melbourne was
thought well w r orth saving when the Herald
Co. bought out the Sun there, and it has
since done quite well. The change, so far
as the Telegraph is concerned, is, however,
a gamble. The paper still has a thoroughly
good country connection, which to a large
extent will be sacrificed; _ and it will still
be in violent competition with the Guardian.
which in form is midway between the old-
type and the pictorial newspaper.
“lan C.”: David Morrison, commercial
writer for Melb. Herald, who died suddenly
on Yic. election day, was a fine type 01
old-fashioned Scottish gentleman, as modest
and courteous as be was capable, and as
much liked by the young as by the mature
paper-stainers. Before coming to Melb. he
was on the Sydney Morning Herald and
Brisbane Courier. He got his early news-
paper training in Scotland, where he
speedily became such a favorite that _ on
one political tour his brother Caledonians
who kept pubs smashed all traditions by
declining to charge him for board. He
assured them that his office was paying, but
they waved the coin away.
“Old Wig”: A unique libel case came
recently before the English courts. Ihc
Grimsby Times, in its haste to be up to date,
overshot the mark, and two days before the
event published a full account by its special
reporter of the marriage of the plaintin
to a local lady whose charms of person and
dress were duly advertised. The account was
embarrassing to the prospective husband,
and the irritations of the dav so wrong I
upon him that with more precipitancy than
sense he rushed to a lawyer., who comforted
him by issuing a writ for libel against th<
newspaper. The Judge of first instance
failed to supply any balm, and cum
tossed the matter out. Plaintiff appeal?
but the Court of Appeal was no more sym-
pathetic. and declared flatly and without an.
show of sentiment that the case; must ie
struck out as “frivolous and vexatious.
TAKE OUT ME AD.!
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Phrases and words there are that chill the
ear
And make a fellow’s heart abruptly sink,
But nothing quite so pitiably drear"
Upon the outer Inky Way, I think,
Nothing that strikes a note so cold and sad
As that direction curt, “Take Out Me Ad.”
The foreman’s “Guilty” in the courthouse
packed
Comes many an optimist’s high hopes to
wreck;
And “No Account,” ’tis an undoubted fact,
Or even “N.S.F.” will make a cheque
A thing of woe. And mighty near as bad
I’ve felt the ukase grim, “Take Out Me Ad.”
The maiden’s “No” —when it’s beyond a
doubt
She means it —well may seem the knell of
doom
Unto the turned-down swain. The umpire’s
“Out”
Will fill the batsman’s atmosphere with
gloom.
But neither is with that malignance clad
You’re apt to notice in “Take Out Me Ad.”
You think that Stores or jocund Boniface,
For whom your lowest rate you gladly
quote,
Bought, just as you might buy their wares,
your space
And didn’t care a flicker what you wrote.
But tread too hard upon their corns, my lad,
You'll risk a peppery “Take Out Me Ad.”
Imperious editors in cities forge
Their bolts and hurl them with a crisp
“That’s that.”
We’re not so Jovian in Gumtree Gorge,
We tread more warily at Hogan’s Flat.
For there are downright readers here, begad!
Might counter with the bolt, “Take Out Me
Ad.!”
N.S.W.
IFORD.


THE BEENIE PATENT
Ideal Stay-on Horse Rug,
Easily Fastened.
Used on All the Crack Racers, Trotters
and Polo Ponies.
“A” QUALITY, for turning out, made of super white
flax canvas (not cotton duck) and lined with
warm wool check.
sft. 6in. 48/0, sft. 9in. 50/-, 6ft. 51/6.
“ES - ’ QUALITY, for stable use, made of white duck,
lined with warm wool check.
sft. 6in. 41/-, sft. 9in. 42/3, 6ft. 44/-
Add 2/9 per rug for freight and if we pay less we refund the
difference. Write for a full rug list showing other styles and
qualities.
WRITE FOR
SADDLERY
OUR
LIST.
POLO PLAYERS
Write for our Polo Booklet with Rules.
The “Witch” Polo Stick with the
Head that lasts longer.
The Bates Patent Polo Helmet.
English Polo Riding Breeches and
Riding Boots.
K’BURRA STOCKWHIPS are Guaranteed
Kangaroo right through. Post free.
Thongs:. 6ft. 7ft. Sft. Oft.
12-plait: 17/- 19/6 22/6 24/6
16-plait: 19/- 22/- 25/- 28/-
16-plait handles, 16/6 ; for Oft. thongs, 18/-
WALTHER 8 STEVENSON, Ltd, , 395 George Street, Sydney
‘De Reszke—of course.’
Ivory Tipped
or Plain
X'
5
3?
*2
S'.
L. \'
w<
V
N
/ W
w
\
iU
* ><fc
The Truth about
Sand in Tobacco
“ I love the flavour of these De Reszkes.
But do you think they’ve removed all the
sand from the tobacco ? ”
“ Now who’s been stuffing your pretty
little head with that nonsense ? Only cheap
tobacco has to be purged of sand, which
gets blown into the coarse leaves growing
on the lower part of the plant. But there
never was any sand in De Reszke tobacco,
for only the choice middle leaves that
grow high up are used, and no sand
\
reaches these. These, too, are the leaves
of expensive quality, so your liking for
De Reszke does credit to your taste, and
no harm to your pretty voice.”
DE RESZKE
Virginias
TEN FOR NINEPENCE
<_Also in 20’s, 50’ 's and 100’s
J. MIT.I,HOFF & CO., LTD., 86 PICCADILLY, LONDON, W.l.
Agents for N.S.W.: DALGETY & COMPANY LTD., Sydney.
IPOLFI
RfPOUN DPKS NOT REQUIRE POLISHING.
An Enamel which
Passes all the Tests
of Actual Service.
For all purposes, domestic and indus-
trial, also unrivalled for Motor paint-
ing. Many Car Owners like to paint
tlieir own Cars. Ripolin, being an air
drying Enamel, flows out without brush
marks when applied with a liberal coat.
RIPOLIN ’WILL NOT RUB OFF.
White and a large variety of shades procurable practically everywhere.
L. A. CORMACK (Factory Rep.), 4 Underwood St. (otf 35 Pitt St.), Sydney
d
ď
Be Prepared-On the road to Canberra /
If you are going to Canberra for the celebra-
tions, be sure to take adequate supplies of
Anchovette with you.
For tasty sandwiches during the motor trip, or
an appetising, quickly prepared meal in camp,
there is nothing to compare with this delicious
fish paste.
peck's
Harry
PeckJ:
a
I
If any illustration in “The Bulletin takes your
fancy, write to the Manager, who will quote you price
for the original.
iWAU
Sleeplessness
"My mind and strength are much
improved since I took Sanatogen
and my sleep is 50% better
writes Mr. John Burroughs, the famous
naturalist and author.
Conquer your sleeplessness by strength*
ening your nerves with Sanatogen.
Sanatogen provides your nerve-cells with
exactly that element—phosphorus—which
is wanted to build up New Strength.
Invest 3/9 in good health and sound
sleep. It’s worth while.
sanatogen
The True Tonic-Food
GENATOSAN LIMITED. LOUGHBOROUGH, ENGLAND.


The Australian Provincial Assurance Association Limited
HEAD OFFICE: 77 KING STREET, SYDNEY.
Directors: Messrs. W. NORTHAM (Chairman), ALEX. KING, Dr. E. MORRIS ItUMPIIERY, Senator J. D. MILLEN, and Mr. EDMUND S. W. PAUL.
Total Assets exceed. . . . . . £1,724,000
BRANCHES: Melbourne, Brisbane, Adelaide, Perth, Hobart. NEW ZEALAND: Wellington, Auckland, Christchurch, Dunedin.
SOME REASONS WHY YOU SHOULD INSURE WITH THE A.P.A.:
(1) Because in the event of total disablement for life all future premiums
will be paid by the Association and no deduction made from policy or
bonuses.
(2) Hospital Benefits are given with every Life Policy applicable to public
and private hospitals, varying in amount according to the sum assured
and no deduction made from policy or bonuses.
(3) In the event of loss of eye or limb through accident, a quarter of the
sum assured will be paid forthwith, and the premium reduced propor-
tionately.
(4) PERSONAL ACCIDENT and Combined Benefit Policies provide for
almost every contingency.
NO EXTRA PREMIUM IS CHARGED FOR THESE BENEFITS
Probate. Children’s Education and Finance Policies specialised.
Applications for Agencies invited from men of integrity.
GKO. PEACOCK, E.C.1.5., Secretary.
T. W. RAPLEY, General Manager.
SUNDRY SHOWS.
SYDNEY SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Her Majesty's “Frasquita”
Criterion “The Cradle Snatchers”
Royal “Sweet Nell of Old Drury”
Palace “Six-Cylinder Love”
Empire “Sunny”
Grand Opera House “Charley’s Aunt”
Fuelers' Vaudeville
Tivoli Vaudeville
Hippodrome Widths’ Circus
MELBOURNE SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Ills Majesty’s “Rose Marie”
King’s “The Fake”
Royal “Tea for Three”
L’rincess “The Goldfish”
Athenasum “The Ghost Train”
Tivoli Vaudeville
Hijou Vaudeville
Majestic Moving Pictures
Hoyt’s Moving Pictures
♦ -
If only for resurrecting seasons of joyous-
ness a revival of "The Geisha” is a treat ; the
performance at the Gonservatorium, which
will terminate on Saturday night, doubtless
set silvery-haired people in the audience
recalling how they courted in the shadow
of the auditorium when the opera and they
were young. The company of amateurs
gathered by Miss Rosenwax is vocally ofli-
eient, but the acting is hardly up to the
standard of the singing, Gwladys Rowlings,
who plays Molly Seamore brightly, being
the one notable exception. The O Mimosa
San of Rene Maxwell lacks the preliminary
vivacity that is necessary to establish the
lady in the hearts of her audience, but her
singing is attractive and clear-dictioned, and
Bryson Taylor is spirited as the naval officer
hero, Reginald Fairfax, putting a lot of
verve into his melody. John Mant, as the
Chinese tea-house proprietor, Wun-lli, shows
alternately an inclination to be confidential
and a determination to let the audience know
that he is playing comedy; the others acquit
themselves creditably enough, Dorothy
Ewbank discoursing of love with some very
sweet notes. It is a pleasant performance,
worth hearing for the well-sung numbers;
but the introduction of a spirited Charleston
into the proceedings is as out of place as
Molly Seamore’s E ton-crop.
❖ :*c
The success of Nellie Stewart and “Sweet
Nell of Old Drury” has disrupted theatrical
arrangements in Sydney. Booked originally
for two weeks at the Criterion, the revival
run has been extended to four, and on Satur-
day the show transfers to the Royal to
finish the last of them and make way. at
the Criterion, for “Cradle Snatchers,” which
starts on Saturday after being held back
for a week. Including “Sweet Nell’s” quite
recent run at the G.0.H., that makes six
weeks for an “old-fashioned” revival—a re-
markable performance, especially with an
actress ostensibly on the retired list as the
head and front of the draw. “Tip Toes,”
which was due to appear.at the Royal with
the finish of “The Cousin from Nowhere,”
gets a week’s postponement, also; it will
open at Her Majesty’s, instead of the Castle-
reagh-street house, on May 7, when maybe
“Frasquita,” which is going well at that
address, will pass over to the Royal. In
the curious shuffling “Six-Cylinder Love”
remains undisturbed at the Palace. The Firm
has been extraordinarily fortunate during the
last couple of years in the success which
lias attended the frequent alteration of adver-
tised arrangements.
The Vagabonds were as amusing as ever
in Arnold Bennett’s war-time brew, “The
Title,” which ran for three nights at St.
James’s and showed no signs of flatness. This
may have been due to judicious cuts in the
dialogue about rationing with which the
play abound, allusions which have little
meaning for us in Australia. That almost
brand-new knight, Ben Fuller, appeared in
the cast, and did his very little hit quite well,
but after the first act he was seen no more.
George Stokes, as Culver, the man who didn’t
want the baronetcy, made the best hit of the
evening. One felt all through liis arguments
with his insidiously sivect wife (Ruby Cox-
head) and Iris title-loving secretary (Hilda
Warr) that lie was quite conscious of having
the joker up liis sleeve. Yal Cohen gave one
of her excellent personations of the highly-
educated and brainful modern flapper ; and
Zita Harris’s parlormaid looked a model of
genteel discretion. The newly-formed Society
for the Prevention of Cruelty to Children
and the Girls’ Week funds share the loot.
“Sunny,” undamped by the rains of Faster,
will commence its tenth week at the Empire
on Tuesday, by which time, if averages are
in any way maintained, well over 200,000
people will have seen the show. The Grand
Opera House, with “Charley’s Aunt” as
a housekeeper who provides a rich diet of
laugh ter, continues a popular resort; and
Wirths’ Circus buzzes along merrily at the
Hippodrome without any of the animals or
performers showing the strain of the two
performances a day.
The magic fiddle of Heifetz is due at the
Sydney Town Hall on Saturday fortnight
(May 14). Tlie wizard would draw crowds
even if the Tait management had not men-
tioned that already, at the age of 25, lie has
turned his notes into gold to the tune of a
million or some such fabulous sum.
The Shakspeare Society ventures on "A
Midsummer Night's Dream" at the Con-
servatorium on Thursday and Friday of next
week. Arthur Greenaway, whose school-
master was Shakspeare, does the producing.
Maggie Forster, whose violin is always
popular with vaudeville audiences, has put
in an appearance at Fullers'. The Hawaiian
pair. David and Queeuie Kali, and the
Charleston Symphony Band are still well
in the picture, but Stiffy and Mo remain the
chief attraction. It, is a pity that a pair
who gather laughs so easily should think it
necessary to leap the fence so often. Sadie
Gale is a popular assistant; and a word of
appreciation is due to Daisy Merritt. Her
twice-a-day experience of being the comically
unpleasant female must give her an immense
desire to be an ideal companion olf the
stage.
The management emptied an almost
entirely new crop of acts on to the Tivoli
stage on Monday, and the Kwong Sing Wall
magicians, still expertly producing bowls
of goldfish from the air, had to take a back
place to some of the new turns. Six lively
Italian acrobats, the Galleno troupe, give
whirlwind exhibitions of how near it is pos-
sible to go to neck-breaking without doing it;
no better turn of the sort has been seen in
Sydney. The Gerardo and Enid Adair couple
arc almost as thrilling; the lady shows an
amazing faith in the strong arms and stiff
back of her partner when she is being whirled
about in rhythmic acrobatics. The Aerial
Smiths, one of whom supports ladders on the
soles of his feet whilst the other stands on
liis head at the lofty end, arc making a fare-
well appearance.
Among the many picture-shows stands out
the movie •‘Twinkletoes.” The story is by
Thomas Burke, and shows the characters
that lurk in dingy Limehouse lanes and slums.
There Colleen Moore a-dancing comes—a
star that lights the underworld. But into
tragedy she’s hurled. Encountering a bit of
luck, she’s loved by Mr. Limehouse Chuck;
and from the miseries and crime the two
souls rise above the slime. At Hoyt’s and at
the Strand a treat awaits in Colleen’s twink-
ling feet.
Even better than “Don Juan.” because
more human, John Barrymore's film creation
of Francois Villon as “The Beloved
Rogue” is well worth seeing. Here is the
Paris of Louis XI. in the depths of winter
with every roof smothered in snow. Barry-
more appears first as an ice-crusted gargoyle
on a building, and lie dares —this actor with
“FRASQUITA.” AT SYDNEY HER
MAJESTY'S.
Cecil Kellaway as Goneral Girat, the gay
dog, and R. Barrell-Lennard as Profes-
ser Gaddipot, masquerading to fool the
General.
classic features-—to disguise himself gro-
tesquely, as king of the revellers, with the
wide negro-minstrel mouth familiarised by
“Mo” at Sydney Tivoli. Yet the same Harry-
more, in the later torture scenes, presents a
figure as beautiful as in early Italian religi-
ous art. The picture touches high-water mark
in film artistry: it is to be seen for an
extended season at the Piccadilly.
An autumn art bloom :
W. Lister Lister regularly follows Easter with a
show of pictures; they are hung again iliis year
in the Hordern Gallery, and on the opening day
the show rapidly broke into the red spots that
indicate sales. Besides the local demand there are
regular buyers overseas, both in America and England,
for the work of the Royal Art Society’s president.
There are 23 oils and 40 water-colors, with no notice-
able left-overs from last year. The former are
the richer in quality; “Shadows Fall Upon the
Winding Road” lias well-used atmospheric effects
and there is nerve-soothing harmony of color in
No. 2, “The Valley of the Minnamurra,” as there
is, indeed, in all Lister’s work. Amongst the water-
colors “The Humpy” (No. 20) and “Where Shadows
Fall” (No. 40) especially appeal; some of the work
here seems hurried. But ilie picture, “Canberra,
1912,” is one that should certainly go on the
walls of the Parliament which has arisen in this
pleasant wilderness. The exhibition lasts until
May 12.
“THE GOLDFISHAT MELBOURNE
PRINCESS'S.
Jenny Wetherby and her second hush and,
Herman Krauss (Muriel Starr and
Charles Lawrence).
“Possum Paddock,” Kate Howarde’s Aus-
tralian-bush anthem, was thrown open for
agistment on Saturday at Melbourne Palace.
Alex. McPherson delivered some Elbert Hub-
bard aphorisms as the auctioneer who is
prevented from selling up the McQuade
estate by the timely arrival of Mona Thomas
as the rich and self-conscious widow from
Sydney; and Vivian Edwards abandoned his
evil courses of the past seven weeks and
appeared in the unaccustomed role of hero,
which he discharged in an elderly manner
and with a wealth of pious rhetoric that
made even the live kookaburra on the back
fence forget his pose of patient resignation.
All the familiar stereotypes were duly dusted
and brought out, and in having two semi-idiot
sons of the homestead making stuttering
advances to two moronic village damsels,
the authoress was in danger of overstocking
her available pasture. Molly Raynor was
thoroughly satisfying in the part of one of
the damsels. “Possum Paddock” makes no
serious pretence of being anything more than
an odd bit of stage bush scenery, beginning
anywhere and ending in the same locality.
In fact, its crisis occurs in the first act and
its remaining three are in the nature of a
comic epilogue. But loud laughs throng
around it like mosquitoes about a swamp,
and they thicken most when Walter Cornock
happens to be upon the stage. That gentle-
man has the best talent for buffoonish char-
acterisation of any practitioner on the local
boards to-day. His face is a saxophone of
low-comedy expression and his nuances of
tone appear to be as artless as the bellow-
ings of a spanked child. It is a pity no
playwright has appeared to write a part
commensurate with Co mock's gifts.
Lee White and Clay Smith arc contending
with Joseph Belmont’s feathered songsters,
for attention at Melbourne Tivoli, and Phil
Smith is completing his season of revolving
revues at the Bijou with “A Hot Night.”
The actor-manager-playwright has been a
draw, but not such a permanent magnet as
his predecessor, Gerald. Both are at bottom
assembly plants of other people’s notions, but
Lord Jim contributes in addition a fresh
and junior personality.
Viola Dana is indulging in some fashion-
able moments at Hoyt’s Melbourne emporium
in “Bigger than Baruum’s,” a well-populated
story of the ring; and Leon Errol is the
“Lunatic at Large” in a hilarious filming
of iClauston’s famous farce. The expensive
Betty Compson is a beautiful young star
who lures astronomical students to the stage-
door in “The Belle of Broadway” at the
Majestic. Villainy fails and virtue triumphs
in the supporting picture, “The Man Who
Paid.” If they didn’t, a movie audience
would have a just claim for a refund of its
money in these days.
Lashing heels and flying tan are the main
features at Melbourne Olympia this week,
where the Royal Federal Buckjumpers are
unseating the best-dressed rough-riders or
the suburbs nightly. From the spectators'
point of view, the show provided isn’t :><
varied as McConville's was last year
though the optimists who try to - earn an
easy £5O by attaching themselves to Fire-
fly's backbone for two minutes probably find
it various enough. Nor are the prads
assembled as sleekly covered or as devilish
seeming as their predecessors. Some of them
look as if they were suffering from the
drought. But there is no doubt about their
temper. One in particular seems to be nurs-
ing a perennial public sorrow. He lies down
and makes more mournful noises than a
politician explaining why he lost the late
election.
New shows will be bursting out all over
Melbourne town on Saturday. “The Ringer"
will be the mystery and the crime at the
Royal, where Moscovitch reigns. Judith
Anderson will be seen in “The Green Hat,”
a flick from the facetious pen of Michael
Arlen, at the King’s. “The Ghost Train"
steams out and “The Unfair Sex” streams
in at the Athenaeum, which promises a feast
in Zillah Bateman, an English actress who
paid us a visit previously with “The Sport of
Kings.” Alexander Watson will commence
reciting Shakspeare and Roderic Quinn
across the river at the Playhouse. A Polish
pianist called Paderewski is impending at
the Auditorium. Meanwhile “Rose Marie"
persists unshaken at His Majesty's, and at
the Princess “The Goldfish” and Muriel Starr
are moderately in the swim.
* *
Shows, home-grown and imported:—
J. Muir Auld (Sydney,), who is showing oils at
the New Gallery, Melbourne, is taking a long time
to get over his faults of weak drawing and hasty
observation, and it is just possible he won’t havi
time to overcome them in his present incarnation.
Which is a pity, for lie has romantic insight and
illustrative talent. One or two examples in this
show suggest an insipient Corot, but Corot was first
of all a sound draughtsman. There are some pleasing
bits of Sydney weather.
Laura Knight, of Yorkshire, has, in conjunction
with her husband, painted a name for herself in
oils. Here, at the P’inc Art Gallery, is the vigorous
and versatile lady in the etching medium. Mrs.
Knight haunts stage doors, dressing-rooms, and
circus rings, and her tired ballet girls and haggard
stars are illuminated by no sun kindlier than the
biting spotlight from the dome. But despite their
make-up, they are human beings and not marionettes
when she has finished with them. This is an arrest-
ing show.
** * *
Gilbert and Sullivan lias been a good draw
at the Adelaide Royal. Strella Wilson's
singing was the feature of “The Mikado,”
but her attempt to dwindle down to the size
a Japanese girl’ ought to be was less
successful. In “The Pirates of Penzance,”
where she dresses her part in modern style,
her “Poor Wandering One” was rapturously
received. John Ralston made a hit as the
police sergeant, and varied that characters
most popular song by giving the encore verse
in broad Scotch.
The revival of “The Silver King” at the
Prince of Wales Theatre makes one wonder
at the staying power of a play with such a
dead load of tearful sentiment. In “There
You Are,” at the Wondergraph, an eloping
couple find themselves burdened with some-
one else’s baby. Conrad Nigel and Edith
Roberts share the honors. West’s are delight-
ing dog lovers with Rin-tin-tin in “A Hero
of the Big Snows.” F. Gayle Wyers’ revue
co. still holds the boards at the Majestic
Theatre. “Oh, You Wonderful Girl,” being
the latest attraction.
* v •-:= *
The York is drawing big houses with
Reginald Denny, in “Take It from Me."
King’s Theatre has sidetracked the pug for
Carter’s Lilliputians in “Puss in Boots"
and “Goldilocks and the Three Bears.”
The Adelaide Repertory Theatre opened
the 1927 season with Harold Chapin's
comedy, “Art and Opportunity.” Thelma
Baulderstone as the designing little widow
Pauline Chevrelle vamped irresistibly. Cine
Carey comported himself with easy dignity
as the Earl of Worplesdon, and the part of
Bentley, the Duke’s secretary, was well
handled by Don Downey, one of the younger
members with a good stage presence. Yiolei
de Mole was inaudible as Lady O’Hoyle, and
.Tack Ham handicapped himself by jerky
mannerisms, but Charlie Langley presented a
likeable juvenile lover, while Frank Johnston,
who produced the comedy, was a butler of
distinction.
“Private Boxer” : Though hard to realise,
it is a fact that a play by a British author
just produced at the London Court Theatre
first saw the footlights in Australia. Tbe
piece is “Bert’s Girl,” a comedy by Eliza-
beth Baker, whose “Chains” has long been
known to Repertory stages the world over.
Originally titled “Alf’s Girl,” it was don>
by Gregan McMahon’s Sydney Repertorian*
a year or two ago when the authoress paid
a flying visit to these parts.


The Secret
of Dodge Brothers
Reputation
The secret of Dodge Brothers reputation
for building a dependable product can
be summarised briefly and forcefully in
two sentences:
Never a type that had to be with-
drawn.
Never a fundamental mistake
that the public was asked to forget.
Canada Cycle & Motor Co, (Victoria) Ply., Ltd., Melbourne.
Austral Motors, Limited, Brisbane—Townsville.
The Standardised Motors, Ltd., Sydney.
Waymouth Motor Co., Ltd,, Adelaide.
Wsnterbottom Motor Co., Ltd., Perth.
□ □DEE EROTHE-R5
MOTOR CARS
Standard Touring - - - - - £299
Sedan ----------- £4lO
Coupe ----------- £395
Equipped 5 Disc Wheels and
Balloon Tyres.
/y
A
V *
i // y &
\/ / /;£*
%/M
V/M
///
§l '/j*-
fp.
wjf
•s* >\
a t
6 f
Pi! I
V
if/
i m- v:
m
i 0 f *?
* i 1 •'
/
I
j/
'ft/;
I "9.
f, !
i '
h-
w
V/
v/M
x
m.
Wi
rA>Jam\ ~ F*
f:
w
%
fcv
.?
522
fr//g
V
Z 4
/ -
m ssssssw* 9 ""
’&/4/’27.


□
□
W 9
i
The
u
OC6 US M or»
PLAYER
PIANO
To hear the “Wurlitzer” is to at once recognise the glorious quality of its tone—a tone of rich mellow
beauty in the bass, bell-like clarity in the middle and upper registers—and marked throughout with the
true singing quality.
To play the “Wurlitzer” is a delightful experience to all true music lovers—for its construction is so
perfect that practically no effort is required to operate it, whilst the expression controls are so ingeni-
ous and simple that the veriest beginner can reproduce faithfully any class of music. Do not fail to
inspect the “Wurlitzer,” on view at most high-class music stores.
PRINCIPAL “WURLITZER” AGENTS:
NEW SOUTH WALES: Royal Player Piano Co., 21 Park Street, Sydney; M. Light & Sons, Ltd., Newcastle and
Cessnoelc; Jas. Loneragan Ltd.. Outgone: The Australian Stores, Ya.-s.
SOI; TH AUSTRALIA: The Australasian Implement and House Furnishing Co., Adelaide.
VICTORIA: Myers Emporium Ltd., Melbourne.
WEST AUSTRALIA: Musgroves Ltd., Murray Street. Perth.
QUEENSLAND: Young & Whatnall, Campbell’s Buildings, Creek Street. Brisbane.
Where any difficulty i* experienced in procuring a “Wurlitzer” communicate direct with the factory representatives:
Parker, Blau & Co., Ltd.,
8 O’CONNELL STREET. SYDNEY.
308 FLINDERS LANE. MELBOURNE.
Poverty
Point
“Curtain Raiser”: Melbourne Royal has
a hoodoo. One day Judith Anderson forgot
her lines in “Tea for Three,” and, the
prompter being unavailable, the curtain had
to be rung down and the show restarted.
In the same theatre the safety-curtain
crashed down on G. B. Post’s performance
of “The Bad Man” ; as it refused to go up
again, the public got half a show and all
its money back. It was at the Royal, too,
that Pauline Frederick, in “Spring Clean-
ing,” not only forgot her initial lines, but
what she had to do. Being more used to
facing a couple of movie-men than 2000 pairs
of eyes, Pauline rushed off the stage wailing
for the prompter, while the cloth came down
behind her. Margaret Anglin 15 years ago
encountered another aspect of the hoodoo.
One of her tensest situations in “The Truth”
consisted of a conversation on the tele-
phone, which a woman in the “gods” inter-
rupted with giggles. Finally, Margaret
slammed the receiver back and ordered the
curtain down. It took the persuasive powers
of the entire staff to make the emotional
lady resume.
“Faux Par” : “Hamfat” is wrong in sup-
posing that no other Australian play besides
"Mrs. Pretty and the Premier” and “On Our
Selection” has been staged in London by
dinkum Aussies. George Darrell produced
his “Sunny South” —a double-dyed-iu-tlie-
whiskers Australian play—in the Fog in the
’eighties. And what of “Robbery Under
Arms,” produced in London by Alfred
Dampier ?
“Caesar's Ghost”: Leon Gordon’s engage-
ment for “Tea for Three” and “The Green
Hat,” which is to shock Melbourne shortly,
is not going to put “White Cai’go” into dock;
it goes “on tour,” and that event gives sev-
eral good Australians a chance. Amongst
them are Gus Neville and Herbert Leigh.
Leigh isn’t Australian born ; but an actor
Avho has been hereabouts for over a genera-
tion can quite claim to be Australian. The
touring company will start “White Cargo”
sit Maitland.
“Wog”: “Klaw” (B. 14/4/’27) does not
settle the argument regarding Gladys Mon-
crieff. Gladys first appeared on any stage
as a ballad singer with Ike Beck’s Vaudeville
(’o.; that was long before she appeared in
"I Uirothy.” Hugh Ward was taken to hear
her in a Sydney suburb; and on his advice
Mrs. Ward trained her for comic opera. So
there!
“East Side” : Died suddenly in New York
last month the American playwright Roi
Cooper Megrue, whose work for the stage
was more worthy of respectful consideration
than that of many of his countrymen who
have been represented on Australian boards.
Megrue was the author of “Tea for Three,”
in which Judith Anderson and Leon Gordon
recently appeared ; he also was responsible for
“Under Cover,” done here with Muriel Starr
and Charles Milward. Perhaps his best-
known piece is that really funny farce, "It
Pays to Advertise,” written in collaboration
with Walter Hackett, which 10 years after
it was seen in Australia was staged in Lon-
don by Herbert Clayton and Jack Waller,
and laid the foundation of their fortune.
Megrue was only 43.
“Hamfat”: Harry Green has settled down
to good business at the Globe in London
with “Give and Take.” After a time he
means to swap parts with Edward de Tisne.
who is playing the comedy foreman, Roy
Rene’s role here. The change will create
new interest, he thinks. Grateful to a
country in w hich, having come for 10 weeks,
he stayed for two years, Green intends re-
turning to Australia directly London is tired
of him and some American engagements
have been covered.
“Expatriate” (N’York) : One meets many
Australians here and hereabouts. Cyril
Keightley is playing a minor role in "The
Shanghai Gesture.” O. P. Heggie, now in
great request as an actor of old-men
parts, is the greengrocer in a revival of
"Trelawny of the Wells." Harry Plimmcr
has the Tupman role in “Mr. Pickwick."
which has not yet reached N’York. Leon-
ard Willey is rehearsing as Mr. Tovc.v in
“The Legend of Leonora,” which Grace
BUILT BRICK BY BRICK.
“Jones is a witty bey gar, don't yon
think?”
“Well, I dunno. He would be if there
wasn't so much damn scaffolding
about his jokes.”
George is to revise. I saw David Glassford
recently in a realistic play called “The Seed
of the Brute” ; last season he was with Noel
Coward and Lilian Braithwaite in the long
run of “The Vortex.” Harry Sweeney
(Mowbray now) is stage manager of a
musical comedy. Irby Marshall is with
George Arliss in “Old English.” Hilda
Spong keeps a tea-room and acts occasion-
ally. Jos. P. Wilson has a small part
in Walter Hampden’s production of “Capon-
saechi.” Herbert Ashton, formerly with
Albert Norman in M.L., plays sketches in
revues. Charles Hammond, once. secretary
of the Launceston (Tas.) Club, is engaged
in moving-pictures, in which one some-
times also sees Mario Majeroni.
“Carisbrook, Jun.” : Either people in N.Q.
are fine liars or Gladys Moncrieff (B.
17/2/’27) was a local celebrity long before
she became stage-famous. Two residents of
Mackay told me they went to school with her
there. In Bowen I was introduced to the
chap “who taught her to swim” ; in Cairns,
to the lady from whom she learned ballet-
dancing. Old residents of Townsville and
Charters Towers reminiscently dwelt on the
days when (naughty girl!) she raided their
orchards. At Mareeba the house wheruoshe
lived was pointed out to me ; likewise at Koor-
boora and Chillagoe. Port Douglas and
Mossman asserted that she was born there :
but in Cooktown this was forcibly denied, the
latter place claiming the honor. Cooktown
also educated her: and an ancient inhabi-
tant produced a pair of skates, saying.
“Y’kuow. I taught Gladys to skate on these,
but I belcher she wouldn’t look at me now.”
“X.N.0.” : These Hollywood film-makers
and their correctness of detail 1 Twice in
a week or so I have seen the Union .Tack
upside down, once in “The Big Parade” and
once in “The White Black Sheep.” Yet
flag-makers invariably supply their flags lif-
ted so that it is impossible! to hoist them
upside down without altering the roping at
the head. Incidentally, the anaemic-looking
Union Jack used in the “prologue” (or what-
ever it is) to “The "Big Parade” was also
upside down the night I saw it.
“Blam”: One of the pieces which Frank
Tail: has brought from England for early
production by the Firm is “Interference.''
a thriller which has been staged at the Lon-
don St. James’s, with Gerald du Maurier and
Hilda Moore .in conspicuous parts. Remark-
able histrionic effects are produced by Hilda
as a vamp who has to be eliminated by
prussic acid, and some of the scenes are
warranted to rattle the vertebra 1 of a hang-
man.
“Lud": Dion Boucicault has not been
much in the English limelight lately : but,
of course, the little man is in the happy
position of being able to pick and choose
his jobs. IJc is now preparing ■ a musical
piece, a stage version of W. J. Locke’s novel,
‘'The Beloved Vagabond.”
“Flaming Youth”: When Zimbalist pre-
sents his most fancied numbers to Australian
audiences they will be able to have a look
at a fiddle for which £6500 was paid. The
“Titian” was one of four most famous
gtrads, and is the only one in active service
to-day. Like the other three, it was in a
private collection, but the violinist received
news that owing to the death of its owner,
to whom he had made several offers, it might be
bought. Zimbalist cancelled his engagements
and dashed from New York to Paris to grab
his prize, and made no bones about the
price. Anyway, he could afford it. When
in 1911 he gave his first concert in America,
he had a reputation but very little money;
but he has made fortunes since then.
“Hamfat”: Something will be clone to
remove the old-established grievance that
Australian managements give their public
nothing but stale operas when the new opera
company, which starts operations in Septem-
ber, unwraps its repertoire. Six operas pre-
viously unheard in Australia are on the pro-
gramme ; and although some of the com-
pany’s complete repertoire of 31 are bound
to be left out it seems definite that Monte-
inezzi's "The Love of Three Kings.” Mas-
senet's "Macon” and Strauss’s "Uosen-
kavalier” will be produced. Others which
owing to long neglect, will be as good as new
are Mozart’s “Cosi Fan Tutti” and Gior-
dan a's "Fedora.”
‘‘Caesar's Ghost”: The author of another
London success “This Woman Business."
which is doing well at the Ritz. after a
season at the liaymarket, is an Australian.
Bonn W. Levy was born in Sydney; and
both his father, who bore the queer name of
Octave Levy, and his mother, who was
formerly a Miss Joseph, of Melbourne, were
born, in Australia. Levy left Oxford to go
to France to improve his French, but settled
down to write the play instead. It went the
rounds of the managers for five years, during
which Levy got his degree and started in
business. Then the piece was accepted, and
was immediately successful. lie has since
dramatised “The Portrait of a Man with
Red Hair” —a novel that caused some discus-
sion—and had a farce. "Recurring Deciimi."
banned by the censor. The last fact indi-
cates that lie is well on the way to success.
"Goldilocks” : Those plucky Sydney sisters.
Miss Rita Lancester and Mrs. Dorothy
Larsen, who have already given Sydney
"Cavalieria Rusticana,” "Maritana" and
“The Bohemian Girl,” will produce "II
Trovatore” in August. It is only by a
blending of amateurs and pros, that success
can he achieved without bankruptcy; but any
deficiencies of the show can be excused; the
main thing is that Sydney will see these
operas. This writer reckons some of the
best-spent nights he had in London was when
he visited the “Old Vic.” to hear the good
old works. The principal tenor in some of
those productions was a particularly stilt
person who looked like a bootshop shop-
walker in his Sunday clothes: but the music
and the matter were there. The Hippodrome
and Oonservatorium shows of the Sydney
ladies were well above the “Old. Vic.” per-
formances.
“Expatriate” (A"York) : “Two Seas” (I!.
.■>o/12/'26), with his reference to the old
Mutual Imps, has brought up a Hood of mem-
ories. In addition to the convivial spirits
he mentions—most of them have passed on
—-I recall Ted Amery, the basso of lliscock's
Minstrels; Willie Warner, the comedian;
Tom Gilpin, baritone; Jimmy Nairn and
his Scotch songs: Tom Rainford, another
tine singer; Fred Statliam, the organist;
Warwick Gainor. W. 11. Woodfield, Harry
Skinner, Jack Mannix, Charlie Propsting,
Arthur Lawrence and Morton Selten. Law-
rence afterwards joined Bland Holt’s co. and
made a hit as Humpy Logan in “Master and
Man” ; he died in New York about six years
ago. The Imps started in a small social
way, to while away dull Sunday evenings, at
Christchurch (M.L.) in 1878: its founders
were 11. F. Towle, Edward Farley, F. H.
Yalpy, F. Digby and G. R. Hart. Towle
adapted the “Faust” music to club ritual
purposes. The Sydney branch was estab-
lished in June, 1884, by C. F. Searle, Agrati.
.1. J. lltting and Harry Power; I became a
member the same year. The verse quoted
by “Two Seas” (“Hurrah for the Mutual
Imps—hurrah”) is from the Imps’ song,
not from the closing hymn, which was always
“The Sweet Bye-and-Bye,” sung by all
the members standing.
“R.K.D.N.”; Is it a far-fetched idea to
suggest that prohibition is tbe primary
cause of tbe unclean plays now being served
up wholesale in the Land of the Free? Cer-
tainly, since the Volstead Act was passed,
amusement-seeking Americans have per-
mitted the exhibition of plays that would
have been hissed off the boards of any other
country. George Jean Nathan blames "the
torrent of movie scum” for “sweeping all
vestiges of taste from the countryside.” IF
forgets the torrent of synthetic liquor. Uncle
Sam knows lie is up against a tough propo-
sition. Failing to make the people sober by
Act. he is trying to make them moral by
gaoling them. Forty-one leading actors and
managers were arrested in New York
recently. All were lined; some did “time.'
Probably they deserved what they got, but
the sentences will hardly affect the taste
of the thousands of patrons of the porno-
graphic shows. It is more a matter for the
pathologist than the policeman. The depths
to which public taste has sunk may be gauged
by the reports of a play produced in Febru-
ary at Bridgeport, Connecticut, which, “hav-
ing received extensive publicity, did enor-
mous business.” The concoction was de-
scribed on the programmes as “A homo-
sexual comedy-drama, by Jane Mast, author
of ‘Sex’.” Its principal scene portrayed a
revel of male perverts!
“Peter Pan”: Pauline Frederick, speaking
to a London reporter, expressed horror at
the prevalence of “sex” stuff on the stage.
“I, personally,” she said, ‘would refuse to
act in a ‘smutty’ play.” Precisely! Sydney and
Melbourne will recall Pauline’s efforts in
those uplifting works, “Spring Cleaning
and “The Lady.”
A BALLADE OF OLD FAVORITES.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Where arc the stars that once we knew
When the world was young and a dream
of spring'.'
They shine no more in the public view.
For change plays havoc with everything.
Our good old actors have had their fling,
Supers and all will have to go.
"East Lynne." "Rob Roy” and "The Silver
King"—
But we'll hear them still on the radio.
Where is the Opera’s gallant crew,
When the chorus went with a joyous
swing,
And musical-comedy always drew
Baldheads with cash to its fairy ring?
The silvery tenor who used to sing
In the role of a gay Lothario?
And the high soprano carolling?
Their voices ring on the radio.
Where is the beautiful ingenue?
The village maiden who'd weep and cling
To the manly chest of her boy in blue
When he made his dash from the up-stage
wing?
And that well-dressed villain muttering
Dark threats as he raged and gnawed his
mo.,
Now trapped by the cop and doomed to
swing—
They speak a piece on the radio.
Envoy.
Though no more the stage embellishing,
The stars that shone in the long-ago,
No saddening thoughts their memories bring,
They’re going strong on the radio.
VICTORIA.
GANESHA.


Shipping,
BRISBANE, via BYRON BAY
Through Tickets to Brisbane issued.
S.S. ORARA—Every Saturday evening; passengers
due Brisbane Monday afternoon.
S.S. WOLT.ONGBAR—Every Tuesday evening;
passengers due Brisbane Thursday afternoon.
Both vessels fitted with Wireless Receiving Sets.
BRISBANE:
FARES.—
Steamer and Motor throughout, Single, £4
Steamer and Motor throughout, Return, £7/5/-
Steamer and First-class Rail, Single, £3/15/-
Steamer and Second-class Rail, Single, £3/8/-
NORTH COAST S. N. CO., LTD.,
Passengers’ Booking Office:
TOURIST BUREAU, CHALLIS HOUSE,
MARTIN PLACE, SYDNEY.
Brisbane Booking Agents: Burns, Philp and Co., Ltd.
Go North to Balmy Weather!
HAWAII.
Complete change in a paradise with average
temperature 75deg. Golfing, motoring, out-
rigger canoeing, surf-board riding, new fruits,
flowers, sun-kissed beaches; lunar rainbows
gleaming through cocoanut palms. Inter-island
cruises along mystic, tropical shores; steaming
volcanoes. Total cost of G—B weeks round-
trip, with 3 or 4 weeks in Hawaii and a day in
Suva or Pago Pago, about £lOO to £l5O. Free
stop-over privileges, en route to America or
Europe. All modern conveniences, good hotels,
12/- to £3 per day. Ask nearest steamship or
travel agent, or write Hawaii Tourist Bureau,
Dept. 26, Box 241-D G.P.0., Sydney, N.S.W.,
enclosing this advertisement.
Quaint Oriental Touches.
HAWAII.
Banking, Public Companies, etc.
The Australian Bank of Commerce Limited
Authorised Capital .. .. .. £5,000,000
Capital Paid Up and Reserves .. .. £2,055,303
Aggregate Assets at 30th June, 1926 ..£16,789,590
Directors: Sir Mark Sheldon, K.8.E., Chairman;
Frank N. Yaiiwood ; Duncan Carson ; H. R.
Lysaght, '0.8.E. ; George J. Sly, LL.D.; Lieut.-
Col. T. L. F. Rutledge.
General Manager: C. M. C. Shannon.
Chief Inspector for N.S.W.: W. G. Hull.
HEAD OFFICE, SYDNEY (Corner George and King
Streets).
Branches and Receiving Offices at 151 places in
New South Wales.
BRISBANE (264 Queen Street).
Chief Inspector for Queensland: L. Aveyard.
Manager: G. H. Howf.ll.
Branches and Receiving Offices at 27 places in
Queensland.
MELBOURNE (325 Collins Street).
Manager: M. B. Finney.
ADELAIDE (35 Bundle Street).
Manager: R. T. Moodie.
PERTH, W.A. (73 St. George’s Terrace).
Manager: A. C. DmniN.
LONDON (37 Threadnecdle Street, E.C.2).
Manager: A. F. Jenkins.
London Directors:
A. Dodds Fairrairn, Alered Shepherd.
Agents throughout Australia. Tasmania and New
Zealand, and at all the Chief Cities of the World.
Every description of Banking Business Transacted.
Bank of New Zealand.
SYDNEY BRANCH:
Coiner GEORGE and WYNYARD
STREETS.
Guaranteed Stock.. .. .. £526,988
Preference Shares .. .. .. 1,875,000
Ordinary Shares . . .. .. 3,750,000
Reserve Fund and Undivided Profits 3.390,378
GRANTS DRAFTS land, Fiji, Samoa,
Croat Britain and Ireiand, and other places.
DECEIVES DEPOSITS fixed periods, and
transacts all other usual Banking business.
The Bank of Adelaide
(Incorporated 1865.)
PERTH OFFICE: ST. GEORGE’S TERRACE.
Also FREMANTLE, W.A.
MELBOURNE OFFICE: 267 COLLINS STREET.
OFFICE: 279 GEORGE STREET.
Authorised Capital .. .. .. £2,000,000
Subscribed Capital, increased to . . 1,000,000
Paid Up Capital,
Reserve Fund,
. . £1,000,000
850,000
£1,850,000
Reserve liability of shareholders,
increased to .. .. .. 1,000,000
£2,850,000
Head Office: ADELAIDE, SOUTH AUSTRALIA.
Also 114 Branches and Agencies in South Australia.
London Office: 11 LEADENHALL STREET, E.C.
Agencies in all Australian States and throughout
the world.
Drafts and Letters of Credit issued on London, America
and elsewhere. Bills from abroad collected and pro-
ceeds remitted. All usual banking business transacted.
Australian Mutual
«j H p“fst f !s'in. y Provident Society
The Largest and Most Successful
Mutual Life Office in the British Empire,
Distributes a Casii Bonus Every Year.
Amount Distributed for single year 1926
Yielding Reversionary Additions to
Policies of over
Accumulated Funds
Annual Income ..
£2,887,200
£4,893,000
£63,600,000
£9,600,000
The Society transacts Every Class of Ordinary
and Industrial Assurance Business.
H. W. APPERLY, F.S.S., General Manager.
Keep hopping and hoping if you wish
to succeed
đsdf
THINK OF
SCHUTE,
BELL&Oud.
If you have
Wool & Skins
to Sell.
Personal Attention.
Offices: 44 Bridge Sired, Sydney,
Shipping, etc.
CANADA, UNITED STATES,
UNITED KINGDOM
FORTNIGHTLY SAILINGS FROM SYDNEY.
CANADIAN-AUSTRALASIAN ROYAL MAIL LINE
via Auckland, Suva (Fiji), Honolulu, Victoria and Vancouver.
UNION ROYAL MAIL LINE
via Wellington, Rarotonga, Tahiti and San Francisco.
AORANGI 17,490 tons, MAY 5, for Vancouver.
TAHITI 7,900 ~ MAY 19, for San Francisco.
MAUNGANUI . 7,527 ~ JUNE 2, for Vancouver.
MAKURA 8,075 „ JUNE 16, for Sail Francisco.
Past and splen-
didly equipped
steamers using
oil fuel.
Spacious Decks,
Unrivalled
Cuisine.
.1
■
Tli e Scenic
Routes to the
United King-
dom, via Soutli
S e a Islands,
Canada, United
States.
TICKETS TO THE UNITED KINGDOM INTER CHANGE A ISLE TO It RETURN
BV OTIIEIt LINES.
HONOLULU EXCURSIONS COMMENCE JUNE 2.
jlnion House, 247 George Street, Sydney.
\William Street, Melbourne.
UNION STEAM SHII* CO.
MACDONALD, HAMILTON & CO., Brisbane, Adelaide and Perth.
SOUTH SEA TOURS
Attractive Island Trips, occupying about Weeks.
SIX-WEEKLY SAILINGS FROM SYDNEY TO
Now Britain- S.S. “MONTORO” (5000 tons).
DlilQllla Sails May 10 and June 21.
Solomon Islands: s - s s ™^^'jui 5 35 T tons) '
A Delightful Holiday in Island Wonderlands.
For Particulars apply—
BURNS, PHILP & CO., LTD.,
Sydney, Melbourne, Adelaide and Brisbane.
<y v .
.x
mm
BURNS, PHILP & CO., LTD.,
Passenger Booking Agents for All Steamship Lines
ENGLAND
EUROPE
AMERICA
CANADA
AFRICA
INDIA
JAPAN
CHINA
JAVA, etc.
At regular passage rates. No extra charge.
Attractive tour to
NOUMEA, JAVA, HONOLULU, COLOMBO, etc.
VISIT JAVA (The wonderland of the East).
Regular monthly sailings of the s.s. “Marella” and
ni.s. “Malabar” to Java and Singapore via Queensland
ports, Thursday Island, Darwin, etc. Smooth water trip,
Deck Cabins, interesting ports of call.
apply
BURNS, PHILP & COMPANY, LIMITED,
WOULD TOUR and TRAVEL DEPARTMENT,
7 BRIDGE STREET, SYDNEY.
BAN ft OF
NEW SOUTH
Established 1817.
WALES.
Paid-up Capital
Keserve Fund
Reserve Liability
sdf
sf
£0,000.000
4,750,000
- - 6,000,000
£16,750,000
Directors:
Thomas Buckland, Esq., President.
The Hon Reginald J. Black, M.L.C.
Charles Binnie, Esq.
James Burns, Esq.
Robert L. Faithfull, Esq., M.D.
Robert W. Gillespie, Esq.
Franc B. S. Falkiner, Esq.
Auditors: W. H. Palmer, Esq.; S. E. Laidley, Esq. General Manager: OSCAR LINES.
Head Office —George Street, Sydney. London Office—29 Threadneedle Street, E.C. 2.
431 Branches and Agencies in the Australian States, New Zealand, Fiji, Papua, Mandated
Territory of New Guinea and London. Agents and Correspondents throughout the world.
Cable remittances made to, and drafts drawn on Foreign places DIRECT. Foreign Bills
negotiated and collected, Letters of Credit Issued, negotiable throughout the world.
The Commercial Banking Company
of Sydney Limited
ESTABLISHED 1834.
CAPITAL PAID UP £3,500,000 0 0
RESERVE FUND ------- 3,000,000 0 0
RESERVE CAPITAL 3,500,000 0 0
£10,000,000 0 0
Directors:
GEORGE J. COHEN, Chairman ; Hon. SIR THOMAS HUGHES, M.L.C., Deputy
Chairman: Hon. JAMES ASHTON, M.L.C.; Major-General the Hon. J. W.
MACARTHUR ONSLOW, V.D., M.L.C.; Sir WILLIAM VICARS, K. 8., C.B.E.
General Manager: J. R. DRYHURST.
HEAD OFFICE: Sydney, 343 George Street.
London Office.—lB Birchin Lane, Lombard Street, E.C.3.
Branches throughout New South Wales and Queensland. Agencies
throughout Australia and New Zealand, and all other parts of the World.
All Classes of General Banking and Exchange Business Transacted.
SAFE DEPOSIT VAULTS.—lnspection invited. Particulars of
Safe Rentals on application.
Shipping, etc,
Inter-State Steamship
Sailings.
(Passenger Sailings—Circumstances permitting.)
FOR MELBOURNE, ADELAIDE and FREMANTLE
(Transhipping at Melbourne for Geelong and oth. i
Victorian ports; at Adelaide for S.A. Gulf ports,
and at Fremantle for Perth, Bunb'ury, Geraldtcu
and North-West Ports).
sadf
FOR QUEENSLAND PORTS
(Transhipping at Brisbane for Maryborough, Bunda-
berg, and Gladstone, and at Townsville for outports).
* Brisbane, Mm kay (no cargo for Mackay), Townsville
ar,<l Cairns.
Huddart Parkei'L^SS
STEAMERS TO NEW ZEALAND —Regular sailings
from Sydney to New Zealand ports and vice versa.
Particulars to be obtained on application.
STEAMERS TO TASMANIA —From Sydney to Hobart
and vice versa as per daily papers. Between Mel-
bourne and Launceston as per daily papers.
For full particulars apply HUDDAIIT PARKER LIMITED,
Co lins Street, Melbourne; Bridge Street, Sydney.
Interstate Telegraphic address: Cable address:
“NALDHAM.” "NALDHAM.”
Macdonald, Hamilton S Co.
247 George Street, Sydney.
Shipping Agents, Merchants, Colliery
Proprietors, Tug and Lighter Owners.
MANAGING AGENTS FOR
Australasian United Steam Navigation Co., Ltd.
Fitzroy Estates, Ltd.
ISlackheath Collieries, Ltd., and Caledonian
Collieries, Ltd.
Eastern & Australian Steamship Co., Ltd.
AGENTS FOR
Biitisli-India S. N. Co., Ltd. F, & O. S. N. Co.
Queensland line of Steamers. Scottish Shire Line
(Turnbull, Martin & Co.). New Zealand Shipping Co.,
j.td. Canadian-Australasian Royal Mail Line, San
Francisco Service (Union S.S. Co.), Union S.S. Co.
of New Zealand, Ltd. Hain Line. Huddart Parker,
Ltd. London Assurance Corporation (Marine). Mel-
bourne Agents for Messageries Maritimes Co. Queens-
land Agents for Sea Insurance Co., Ltd.
BRANCHES at Perth, Fremantle, Adelaide, Port
Adelaide, Melbourne, Suva (Fiji), Brisbane, Mary-
borough, Bundaberg and Bowen.
A 1,1, AUSTRALIANS visiting London
r\ should read the British Australian
and New Zealander, 6d. weekly—an illus-
trated paper containing mail and cable news
from Australia and news of Australians in
Europe and at home. Australians are cordi-
ally invited to visit the British Australian
and New Zealander Reading-room at the
Offices, 414-17 Australia House, Strand,
London, WC.2, where they can see the home
[tapers, meet their friends, use the telephone
and obtain information without charge.
Copies of the paper and general information
can be obtained at the Australian Advertis-
ing Agency. Ltd., 350 George Street, Sydney;
or 434 Collins Street, Melbourne.
Hotel
Kosciusko
Early Winter
Tourist Concession
Ticket.
First-Class Return!
Rail, Motor, [
3J Days Hotel. J
£81416
July and August excepted.
Bookings and Further Particulars at —
N.S.W. Government
TOURIST BUREAU
Challis House, 8 Martin Place,
Sydney.


1111111!
is
mmm.
mm
Hi
rm ■
m
sd
Buying “Willard” is getting more
for your money every time—every
battery. A Willard Battery with
Threaded Rubber Insulation
comes CHARGED Bone Dry. It
stays brand new until it is pre-
pared for your use.
that's
Quality
STORAGE
BATTERY
fsad


G
3
a
ffi
W
DP
On
o
“Four years ago I con-
tracted Piles, and was
advised to try Rexona
Ointment, which abso-
lutely cured me. Three
months ago I had to
undergo an operation. In-
tend of the wound healing-
after leaving the hospital,
it turned sentic. I at
once applied Rexona Oint-
ment, and within a week
my wound was completely
healed. I can thoroughly
recommend Rexona Oint-
ment.”
Mr. J. GRAFTON,
Waterloo, N.S.W.
Here’s the Best Remedy
for Piles REXONA
The Rapid Hea/er
All who suffer from Piles are especially
unfortunate in that they cannot talk about
their complaint. They must suffer in
silence.
To all such Rexona comes as a groat
blessing, for it is easily obtained, easily
applied, and the result is always gratifying.
The distressing symptoms quickly subside,
and mind and body both feel relief from
the constant strain almost after the first
application. In this ointment are combined
juices and essences in an entirely new and
unique manner, forming a remedy justly
celebrated as a Rapid Healer.
Rexona is a remedy which is especially
valuable in the treatment of piles. Those
who try it will not be disappointed. Rexona
is sold everywhere at 1/6, or in pots holding-
over three times the quantity for 3/-.
REXONA-
The Rapid Healer.
r fl "
Cooling
Soothing
o'-
Miimu
Healing
dir flintm^nt
‘antiseptic Ointment
purifies 2 Absolutely
‘ i Heals Reliable
m
M»iiiaEa
y" A Reliable healer for all Eruptions
and Irritalions of Ihe Skin. foema. Sores Cuts
Bruises. Sores. Sciatica. Piles Stings of Insecb
and all kinds of Inflammation
REXONA DEP’ SHELDON ORU6 C° L TO SVDNEY
THE TRIANGULAR BOX
O <A O
Chocolates
‘ I do like my Daddy—see
what he's brought me home/"
The Famo.us Red Box of Chocolates.
Mailed to you the day they are made.
Prices:
3/-, 5/6, 6/-, 10/-, 12/6,
20/- and 30/-
Post free to any address in Australia.
162-66 PITT STREET.
BRANCHES:
CR. GEORGE AND KING
STREETS;
CAST LERKA GII STREET
(Next Theatre Royal),
SYDNEY.
Send for Catalogue illustrated
with reproductions of our con-
P ectione-y in colors.
sijgggsgi
§|||§if
mm -
* ■ J
x
a
i
I
E%
■
Ballad of the Paying Guest.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
/N Darlinghurst, that rendezvous of all
that’s new and strange,
Where actors thirst and scribes are curst
by constant lack of change,
When ghosts carouse each lodging-house is
haunted by the shade
Of that preposterous, weird and mythical
paying guest who paid.
yow Darlinghurst is full of folk whose tastes
are quaint and queer —
It might be something in the air or something
in the beer;
But there’s no fad so wholly mad, and there's
no richer jest
Than that ridiculous, unbelievable yarn of
the paying guest.
Potts Point is quite a dignified address to
give your friends,
And many a pretty place there is around
the leafy bends;
But you can double south and north or sally
east and west,
And wherever you go you'll never escape the
tale of the paying guest.
When first I came to Darlinghurst as an
innocent lad I met
An elderly woman dressed in brown who
treasured a rope of jet,
And while she fingered the beads and agreed
that the weather was certainly fickle
She told me about a wonderful man whose
name was Methuselah Pickle.
“He mostly did business in safety-pins,” she
droned, “but at times he travelled
For something to pick the stitches up when
crochet patterns unravelled.
I let him the second flat upstairs and he and
a Mr. Bodger
Were the best I’ve had, and / know a wrinkle
or two about a lodger.
“Mr. Pickles would bring me down a chop
or a bit o’ butter
And say, ‘I don’t know really how you are
managing, Mrs. Tuttcr ;
The rent I pay is quite absurd, and, although
your pride is splendid,
You can’t refuse these gifts, and I hope by
them you’re not offended.’
“But that was only a little thing to a man
like him,” she chattered ;
"It wasn’t that he was good, you know,
’twas how he did it that mattered;
And once when I was out he waited about
for hours and hours
To give me the tip that a friend of his was
sick and tired of ‘The Towers.’
“And then so quiet—you’d never hear him
one week’s end to another.
And well connected —been to school with a
son of a man whose brother
Was haud-in-glove with the sister-in-law of
an actual belted earl;
And that’s the truth, and I ought to know,
for I heard of him as a giri.”
But there remained one wonder still to beat
the rest to a frazzle,
The lodger’s perfect crown, my young imagi-
nation to dazzle;
It seemed each Tuesday morning, as sure as
the sunrise came and went,
That Methuselah Pickle fearlessly and cheer-
fully paid his rent.
He never declaimed, “I’m short this week:
I missed the first at the ponies,”
Or hinted at urgent loans required by impe-
cunious cronies,
Or blamed a family wedding-gift for swal-
lowing all his wages,
And thus his name was symbol of truth for
liars of various ages.
No flimsy tales of cheques delayed this virtu-
ous lodger uttered,
No piteous pleas for time to pay arrears of
rent he stuttered;
There was no shooting home of bolts to dodge
Olympian thunder.
No wonder the name of Pickles was one to
hold in awe and wonder!
Now many a tide has ebbed and flowed since
first I heard that story
By which Methuselah Pickles was clothed in
immemorial glory;
And, when the soul of Mrs. Tutter went out
on a wave of brandy,
I went next door to live, and heard of a
character called Mac Shandy.
“Mac Shandy was a wonderful man,” ex-
claimed my new landlady—
“ The soul of honor, he wouldn’t do a thing
that was mean or shady ;
Brought me presents—was well connected —•
cousin at school in France,
A Itochabite—and easily pleased and—paid
his rent in advance!”
And time went by and I transferred to seven-
teen different places,
And some were clean and some were mean
but most were sheer disgraces,
Yet still Mac Shandy followed me round and
still Methuselah came,
Although they masqueraded now under some-
body else’s name.
The like of them has never by man or
woman been heard or seen
Since the days when knights spurred furi-
ously to battle with dragons green.
If you were going for medicine you heard
the tales in amaze
Of the miracles done in surgery by Mac. in
his student days.
Or then, maybe, you followed the sea, but
none of your yarns could match
that tale of Pickles marooned for months
on a weevily booby hatch;
He lived on seaweed boiled in the sun, a
new but a succulent dish,
And caught the rain in his hat for drink and
studied the ways of fish.
On the other hand, perhaps you belong to
the band that builds defences
lor careless murderers; but none of your
legalised pretences
Looked anything at all beside Mac Shandy s
triumphs ot‘ pleading—-
Thirty murderers he'd got acquitted before
he finished his reading.
So whether you auctioned real estate or
swung on the skirts of Art,
Sold bricks or shares or mended chairs or
worked on a baker’s cart,
Though kings had trembled before your frown
and your name was heavily lettered,
You never could hope to wear them down —•
whatever you did they bettered.
One summer night when the stars were pale
and the trees were quiet in the gloom
The clocks struck twelve and a curious light
moved into my attic-room ;
I watched it grow from a faint green glow
to a bodyless, vaporish grey,
And then a queer voice spoke: “I hope you
are paying your rent to-day.”
I believe in being polite to ghosts; my
answer was prompt and pleasant:
“I’d forgotten to buy my rich old aunt her
usual Christmas present.
I blamed the delay on the P.M.G. and Par-
cels Office congestion,
So really I can’t —I mean—you see, that
the rent is out of the question.”
Then sharp and clear on my puzzled ear
broke a gust of unholy laughter,
While the veil of vapor took wings and fled
to hang on the highest rafter,
And there at the foot of the bed stood a
ghost who asked with the most unstately
Giggle if I had been hearing much of
Methuselah Pickles lately.
“Have I heard of Methuselah Pickles!” I
cried. “Have I heard of Mac Argus
Mac Shandy!
May rust spoil the pins of the Pickle, and
may the kine of Mac Argus be bandy;
They are twins of the devil, albeit their fame
is for virtue, and, if I could do it,
If a landlady spoke of the blankards at
dinner I'd bash in her head with the
cruet!”
Loudly the ghost laughed in applause, but
“Listen to me,” he said;
“The shadow of both these friends of yours
am I, though neither is dead;
While Darlinghurst is Darlingliurst, and
while there is bed and board
And rent, there Pickles will rise and there
his double will walk abroad.
“For I am Meth. and I am Mac., but I
am the ghost as well
Of an average paying guest who has rent to
pay for his room in Hell;
And because for three years now the devil
has had no tithe of his due
I’ve been evicted to earth to teach a lesson
to fools like you.
“It’s time you understood that even in resi-
dential life,
A sensitive soul can avoid a scene with the
aid of a gun or a knife;
And who would deny that this is better than
having acidulous quarrels
Concerning the rent with the dame from
‘The Towers’ or the lady in black of
‘The Laurels’?
“And I wish my time was over again,” he
said with a heavy sigh ;
“It’s good to be able to pay the rent, but
pleasant to see them die.
This house has memories for me: when I
was on earth before
I was here for a week — and / buried the old
girl under the kitchen floor.”
The shadows lightened; the wan moon died ;
a far-olf train whistled twice. . . .
“I must be going,” the ghost remarked, “but
—mind you heed my advice:
Conduct yourself as a gentleman, and pay in
advance if you can,
Or —if you do the job with skill, you’ll still
be a gentleman.”
The veil sailed down from the roof. “And
now,” said the ghost, “I’ll have to float,
I’m running late for the River Styx and
the all-night passenger boat.”
“Good-bye,” I called; “be sure I’ll do my
part as a paying guest—
The minute she mentions rent to me, she
travels the way of the rest!”
She did ... . Since then I pay the rent when-
ever I’m flush of money;
The few survivors are fond of me and their
smiles are sweeter than honey.
And the ghost of Methuselah Pickles and
Mac. drops in for a chat when he can
To tally the dead and to see me installed in
the role of “a wonderful man.”
N.S.W.
MERVYN O'HARA.
Ffoulkes.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
<t_ I~%AI Jove, you know, somebodai ought
I to speak to the blightah that taped
off the miles in these parts !”
The doctor and I turned to look at the
big man blocking the glare from the shim-
mering red plain outside.
“Tliirtai, they said it was” —his booming
baritone filled the bar—but I swear I did
sixtai before I saw this—er—jolly oasis
floatin' on the mirage, and I’ve been marchin’
behaind it for another tliirtai. Do some-
thin’ to it, somebodai —pinch it to make sure
it’s realil. Or, bettah still, ordah me a pew-
tah, and I maight believe it.”
“Flaming skite !” I thought, catching the
same thought in the doctor’s eye.
The skiter sauntered in with his hands
in his pockets and leaned against the counter.
Little channels of sweat ran down his dust-
grimed,- unshaven face, down his neck, and
over the great chest showing through his open
shirt. I pushed our empty mugs over the
counter.
“Walked in?” I said. “Come far?”
lie was a good specimen of the genus new
chum —well over six feet, and a figure a
sculptor would go dilly over.
“From Wilson’s Soak —tliirtai miles, or
leagues, or somethin’.”
“Wilson’s Soak!” The doctor glanced at
me. It was every inch of thirty miles ; and
not a spot of water along the fiery track
between the broken, red granite ranges. The
(Continued on next page.)


ver J/ picture
Cells a Si°ry
imp
*9
nj
9
w
Never neglect your kidneys!
Avoid that backache taking Doan’s Pills.
WEAK KIDNEYS spoil your joys, making
you feel old and wretched, and unfitting
you for either work or play. Why not prevent
such troubled Middle-aged people, in particular,
should tak e aii Occasional course of Doan’s Back-
ache Kidney Pills as a precaution. This helps the
kidneys to rid the blood of impurities that cause
backache, rheumatism, lumbago, sciatica, dropsi-
cal swellings and urinary disorders. In many
serious cases of kidney trouble Doan’s Pills have
proved highly successful.
SYDNEY MAN TELLS HIS STORY.
A (COMPLETE RECOVERY;
Mr: H. Holder, 233 West Street, North , Sydney, says :
“Doan’s Backache Kidney Bills are indeed a wonderful
kidney medicine'. I ha,v l e proved this. .For & long time
I suffered, Qgony, from, backache ahd kidney trouble, and
only those Who have been afflicted in this way have any
idea what I went through. My limbs swelled consider-
ably, the kidney secretions were thick and cloudy with a
red sediment, and I had agonising pains in my back. I
was treated by a doctor and tried all sorts of remedies,
but nothing gave me the slightest relief. I was naturally
very worried about the serious state of my health, and
when Doan’s Backache Kidney Pills were brought under
my notice I decided to try them. It was a grand thing
for me that I got this remedy, for seven bottles cured
me completely. I cannot speak too highly of Doan’s Pills
and recommend them with every confidence to other suf-
ferers.”
Eight years later Mr. Holder Says: “I have still the
same good opinion of Doan’s Backache Kidney Pills.
They cured me of kidney disorder eight years ago, and I
have had no return of the complaint since:”
At All Chemists anti Stores, 2/9 per bottle, or front
Foster McClellan Co. t 15 Hamilton Street, Sydney.
D OAN'S
Backache Kidney Pills.
DOAN’S OINTMENT CURES PILES.
SYDNEY PEOPLE SAY SO.
Mrs. R. Wark, 63 Eveleigh Street.
Redfern, Sydney, says: “A member of
my family suffered terribly witli Pro-
truding Piles. The pain was so great
that he could not sleep at night, and
would toss about for hours. He had been
suffering for three years, and we were
always having advice and using dif-
ferent remedies, but nothing did him
any good until we got Doan’s Oint-
ment. This remedy proved excellent;
it gave complete ease. I cannot say
enough in praise of Doan’s Ointment,
and recommend its use whenever op-
portunity offers.”
Eighteen years later Mrs. Wark
says: “I am pleased to tell you that
the member of my family who was
cured of Piles by Doan’s Ointment over
eighteen years ago is still free from
this trying complaint. This remedy is
a certain cure for Piles.”
Mr. .T. Mitchell, 26 Campbell Street,
Glebe, Sydney, says: “I was a sufferer
with Itching Piles for years, and I
cannot describe the agony of this ail-
ment. Scores of times I have ldst
my rest, sleep being out of the ques-
tion, I used a great many Pile reme-
dies, and was treated by a doctor, but
got no relief. Reading of cures effected
by Doan’s Ointment, I decided to try
it. A few applications gave me ease,
and by continuing the treatment I
found, to my great satisfaction, that
all the pain and irritation had gone.
I am very grateful to Doan’s Oint-
ment for my cure, and advise sufferers
to try this remedy, and am satisfied
that if they follow the directions they
will soon be cured.”
Ten years later Mrs. Mitchell says:
“My husband has been free from Itch-
ing Piles since Doan’s Ointment cured
him. but he still uses this remedy now
and then, just as a preventive
against any return of his old com-
plaint.”
Price 2/9 per tin.
KEEP A TIN ALWAYS ON HAND.
IT’S A MIGHTY FINE REMEDY.
Gulf breeze was parching our throats as
fast as we could set down our empty mugs.
“Didn’t you have a water-bag?”
“No. Messy things. Muck up a fellow's
clothes. Ah, thank you!” The languid bar-
maid put down three foaming mugs, and
took in 'the newchum with a sweep of her
half-closed eyes.
“The best of luck, boys,” he said. He
turned his back on us, slipped one hand fur-
tively out of his pocket, and drained liis pint,
putting it down on the counter and sneak-
ing his hand back before lie turned and faced
us again. I saw the barmaid make a grim-
ace and turn away.
“Have a cigarette?” I said.
“Thanks, old man.”
I pushed my pouch and papers along the
counter.
“D’you mind rollin’ it for me, old man?
I’m an awful ass at that sort of thing.”
I shot a glance at him as I did so, and I
fancied I could see that his teeth were set behind
the smile. When I offered him the cigarette
lie leaned forward with parted lips, so I
stuck it in his mouth, and lit it for him.
“Thanks so much, old top. Now could you
tell me where I’d find the pills here?”
“The .pills?” I repeated.
“Yes, the sawbones, you know. The quack.
I want to see him about a bit of a scratch.”
Bartlett took his elbow off the counter.
■“l’m the local butcher,” he said. “What’s
the trouble?”
“Nothin’ much. Damned hands crocked.
Thought they’d harden up after a few days ;
but they didn’t seem to improve. I stuck % it
out till yesterday, but I had to give in.
Couldn’t pick the axe up this morning, let
alone use it.”
“Show me.”
“Wouldn't it do when we get round to the
surgerai?”
“Show me!”
The chap looked at me, turned his back
on the barmaid and took his hands from
his pockets....
I’m not squeamish. After twenty years or
so with cattle in the unfenced country you’re
not finicky about raw meat. But—-those
hands !
“What the hell have you been doing?”
Bartlett growled. There was a slight twitch
about his hard mouth.
“Cuttin’ trees down—posts, you know, for
a fence, or somethin’. I’m not quait used
to it yet, and I’m afraid I made a mess of it,”
He stood there smiling, the grizzly objects
held before him as though they were hands.
Bartlett turned to me. “Will you run ils
up to the hospital in your ’bus?”
I waited about for half an hour, and
brought the doctor back to town.
“Whisky!” he said, when we were back in
the bar. “Worae than they looked, if that’s
possible,” he went on. “Sinews, bones —no-
thing but luck will save the hands. But the
Ffoulkses have the luck of the Devil—always
had.”
“You know him?”
“I know the family. This one was at
Sandhurst the last time I was over, if I
.remember rightly. Went through the war
with the Field Artillery. Fourth son, or
something like that. Always off on some
wild-goose chase. Family failing.”
“Seems a sticker,” I said, remembering the
hands and the axe he couldn’t pick up.
I saw him again when he came out of
hospital. Bartlett had asked me to meet him.
“Got some potty notion in the head about
going out to the Northern Territory,” he
said. “We’ll have to put him off, somehow.
Drag out some of your old ones —lay it on
solid. But don’t let him think it's arranged.”
I dropped casually into tlie doctor’s hotel
and heard Ffoulkes’s voice before I saw him.
He was sprawled in a big easy chair, still
in the shirt and trousers, but shaved and
sleek and as completely at his ease as if he
were in his Bond-street clothes.
“Wharton? Glad to see you, old bean!”
My hand felt like a haberdasher’s in that paw
of his, just out of the lint and bandages.
“Yes,” he grinned, “bit better than last time
we met, eh? Bartlett says you know all
about the Territrai. Wliat’s it like?”
I sat down and obeyed orders.
“Wide plains with no trees, waterlioles
about a hundred miles apart, flies and mos-
quitoes to beat the band, niggers you can’t
trust, months in the year with no rations—
hell of a place !”
I thought I’d packed it pretty full; but
Ffoulkes’s eyes glowed. “Wonderful!” he
said. “Ripping! I didn’t think there were any
places like that left. Gad! I’m glad I
came. I thought all the real cattle country
in the world was built over.”
I couldn’t think of anything to say for
the moment. The doctor sighed.
“The mits are in good shape again,”
Ffoulkes went on, “so I think I’ll buzz off
in the morning. Which is the way? Can
you point out the track for me?”
“But you’re not going to walk?”
“Of course I’m goin’ to walk, my dear
chap. I like walking.”
“It’s impossible! You’ll have as much as
a hundred miles to do for water in some
places, and”
“Well, I can do thirtai or fortai a day;
and I could take one of those beastly water-
bags.”
“But your food, blankets, clothes?”
“I don’t bother with ’em, old boy. These
are all the clothes I have ; and a few pounds
of rice will last me for a week. I don’t
trouble about blank,ets, either. It isn’t
cold here.”
I let myself out. Told him of long, dry
tracks, of men wlio’d perished of thirst—some
within a mile or two of their objective, some
on the banks of a waterhole they’d crawled
to for miles on hands and knees. But
Ffoulkes enjoyed it. He sprawled there,
drinking it in, with an occasional “Top hole !”
and “Corking!” till it was all his way. I
was a poor, snivelling mortal complaining to
this smiling Olympian how the cruel desert
had slapped my face and pinched my ear.
His half-patronising smile told me not to
cry; he’d go out and put the desert across
his knee. A poor little twelve-stone rough-
rider like myself, reared on the plains, might
have had a rough spin ; but that was only
to be expected. I wasn’t Ffoulkes. We
couldn’t all be Ffoulkeses.
Next day Bartlett told me he had gone,
early. From the twilight of the bar my eyes
seemed to follow the great shoulders toiling
through the simmering gorges of the Argylla
Range. I felt like a murderer for not liiav-
ing asked the police to arrest him on a
charge of vagrancy.
I thought that was the last I’d see of
him, but I was wrong. Bartlett dashed into
my pub next day with his outsize black bag
and asked me to drive him out to the Devil’s
Gap. He seemed in a hurry.
“It’s Ffoulkes,” he said, as I dumped a
drum of water and a case of petrol in the
back.
“r’erished?”
“No. Got messed up in a smash of some
kind. No details. Coach-driver rode one
of his horses over to Gidea Creek station and
telephoned through.”
“My fault,” I said. “I should have sand-
bagged the fool and put him on the train
tor the coast.” '
We were soon in the ranges, ploughing
through the loose, coarse sand in the creek-
beds, climbing vicious pinches of one-hi-four,
taking hairpin bends high up on the side of
sharp-toothed spui's; hugging the bits of good
going along the edge of villainous cliffs —and
Bartlett asking all the time what was wrong
with the ’bus. Even when I hit thirty, on
a bit of straight track a hundred yards long,
with the bend out of sight beyond a huge
balancing rock, he told me to step on her.
I began to suspect there was a little more
behind it than professional zeal; but lie
need not have Worried, because I was feeling
a bit that way myself. We 'Averaged fifteen
miles an hour for the whole trip out to
Devil’s Gap. I know that sounds slow for
a six-cylinder car equal to seventy on the
level; but I couldn’t have cut another minute
off the trip. I crawled the last mile down
to the Gap in low, with hand- and foot-brakes
jambed on most of the way; and then it
was a near thing.
At the bottom the track turns fOUnd, tilt
shoulder of a cliff, about eighty feet above
the level of the creek-bed, all strewn with
water-worn boulders. I felt the back wheels
skid jUst the least bit in the loose gravel.
A foot more would have done it; but the
tyres gripped again.
The mailman and the women passengers
had done all they could, but Ffoulkes, right
arm and left leg in splints and bandages,
was in a bad way when we arrived.
“ ’Lo Bart,” he said, t coUld'see it wdk
an effort for him to keep an. interest iii
his surroundings; .but tlie smile was. Still
there. “By Gad, I’m a Jtinah, you know.
This chappai was good Enough to give me
a lift in ljis coach ; and you see the pickle
I’ve landed them all in. Roll me a cigarette,
Wharton.”
I rolled a cigarette for him while Bartlett
went over his injuries. He was lying under
a fly that the mailman had rigged up as a
shade from the blistering sun.
“You seem to do things in pairs,” Bartlett
said. “Two forearm bones, two shin-bones
and two ribs. How did you manage it?”
“The same way I always make a mess of
anythin’,” he said wearily. “I was sittin’ Up
there beside the drivah, admirin’ the way lie
tooled his six-in-hand round the bends, hot in'
him to death askin’ questions, dnd thinkin'
what toppin’ scenerai it Was. Those . dips
you know, where yOU Can look right down
over the side of tlie coach and see About
six inches of dirt beyond tlie wheel, U'ilu then
that green carpety valley thousands 'of miles
below, where you wonder if the tops, Of tlie
trees would be as soft as they look if
you”— . .
He gritted his teeth, puffing hard on his
cigarette as the doctor did sOm'ething to his
leg.
-“if you were to go over the edge,” he
went Ori. “We were coinin’ down the slope
back here and bowlin’ along at a good clip.
It was toppin’, you know, and I told the
drivah so.”
“ ‘Great! You bloody idiot!’ he said, not
botherin’ to look at mai. ‘The brake’s gone
bung! If I don’t pull up before I hit the
gap it's good-night!’ ”
Bartlett was kneeling beside him, leaning
over and blocking my view of his face most
of the time. As he moved aside a little I
saw another spasm of pain try to oust the
smile; but Ffoulkes went on again in his
infuriating drawl:
“We had our feet on a bally pole, a spare
cross-tree for yokin’ the neddies, three abreast,
y’know. ‘What about spraggin’ the wheels
with this old pole?’ I said. ‘You sit tight!’
he growled at mai—watchin’ his horses....
I pulled the clotlies-prop from under his feet,
climbed over the top, and tried to stick it
through the spokes. They were whizzin*
round till it looked all hole, and I just made
a sort of a dab at it.”
The drawl fell to a half whisper. “I
muffed it the first try; the thing hit me
in the chest and nearlai poked me off the
caravan. I had another try, and it did some-
thing to my wrist; so I had to hang on to
the mailbag ropes with my teeth and muck
around with one hand.” (I bent down to
catch the words). “Then, when I did get
it through I got my leg jambed up against
the back of the coach. The drivah was right.
I was an idiot, an awful ass; because just
after that he pulled his team up and drove
them round the corner at an easy trot. If
I hadn’t fooled around and interfered with
his job, he would have been mailes and
mailes along his way by now.”
The mail driver looked up.
“Don't you believe a ——- word of it!”
he said. “Have a look at the polished wheel-
track back there. Look at the spokes in me
off hind wheel and the flat patch on the iron
tyre. If it hadn’t been for that Pommy
we’d all ha’ been in Hell be now!”
I had seen the shining wheel-track as we
came along, and wondered how it got there.
I knew now.
We went back to town at a snail's pace,
trying to ease the jolts on his battered frame.
It was six weeks before he was able to
got about again.
“Do you still want to get out to the Terri-
tory?” I asked him one day. “Still got the
fancy for cattle work?”
“Of course, old chap. I’m makin’ another
start next week.”
“Good-oli,” I said. “But don’t walk this
time. I’m going out to my place the other
side of Charlotte Waters on Monday. There’s
a job there if you care to take it, to get
experience.”
His merry eyes smiled.
“Toppin’! Thanks !” he said. “Roll me a
ciga.... No, never mind. Give us your
pouch. I’ll have to start learnin’ to do
things for myself.”
EENEST CHAPMAN.


fsd
WESTINGHOUSE
Morse Silent Rocker-Joint
CHAIN DRIVES
Ensure minimum wear—
Maximum life and highest
efficiency.
Chains in stock—wheels manu-
factured to suit requirements.
Write for particulars
and Booklet BM 414.
THE WESTINGHOUSE BRAKE CO.
OF AUSTRALASIA LTD.,
„ ® CHCRCH, Brisbane.
N.Z. Office—93-107 Featherston Street, Wellington. CONCORD WEST N S WALES
Victorian Office—99 Queen Street, Melbourne. bUm/UIU# nuoi.ll. O. OftbEO.
South Australian Agents: Messrs. ELDER, SMITH & CO., LTD., Adelaide, S.A.
NON-PLUS-ULTRA
CORKBOARD
for
Cold Storage Insulation.
Compressed Cork Sheets, Standard Size 3ft. x Ift.,
in various thicknesses.
Large stocks available for immediate delivery.
J. WILDRIDGE 8 SINCLAIR, LTD.,
97 PITT STREET, SYDNEY,
And at Melbourne, Brisbane, Perth and Auckland (N.Z.).
If any illustration in “THE BULLETIN” takes your fancy, write
r
to the MANAGER, who will quote you price for the original.
0
THE CRYPTOGRAM
THE GREAT SHAKESPEAREAN WHERE IS IT!
THE SEARCH FOR GOLD AND A CHANCE OF WINNING THE
£lOOO GO L DEN HELM ET.
£5O IN PRIZES FOR A CRYPTOGRAM SOLUTION, AND £6666
IN PRIZES IN THE
N.S.W. FIRE BRIGADES’ ART UNION.
For the Hospitals and Ambulances of the State.
_ (Sanctioned by the Attorney-General).
Special distribution of £5O in Prizes to those who can discover a quotation from Shake-
speare in the Cryptogram in this advertisement.
The Old Pot of Luck.
3475 Chances for £l.
The First Prize in the Fire Brigades’ Art Union for the
Hospitals and Ambulances is a Fireman’s Helmet of Pure
Gold, weighing over 201 b., and valued at £lOOO In Sterling
Cash.
THIS Helmet that shines OUT like burnished gold in
times of danger, we FIND was in use in THE heroic
ages, AND it still REMAINS the symbol of deeds of re-
nown. No matter what the CAUSE may be, when fires
break out, when danger threatens life and limb, WE look
to the men in the golden helmets to EFFECT a save.
And so it has come to pass THAT all OF us NOW look
to I'iro Brigades to help the Hospitals. Send your
Shillings along, for they help you and they help the
community you live in.
In the above paragraph there are twelve words printed in
capital letters Assemble these words and make them read
as a quotation from Hamlet, Act 11, Enclose the answer in
an envelope with a shilling for a ticket in the Art Union.
The answers will be placed in a separate barrel and the
FIRST PRI7C rno tucw^cdto J mmedlate,y after the Art Union.
FO 5 ,™E .ANSWER TO THE CRYPTOGRAM, £2O; Second Prize, £5;
FmS» C r«nS l^ t v ?n ?es ot , V, 6ach 1 i T wenty Consolation Prizes of 10/- each; and
Forty Consolation Prizes of 5/- each.
The Prizes will be awarded according to the way in which the correct answers are
drawn out of the barrel. Every Ticket purchased through the post will carry an
answer, send on separate slips as many answers as you take tickets, and remem-
ber 25 Tickets for £1; 12 tickets for 10/; 6 tickets for 5/.
The. solution of this Cryptogram, known only to the Secretary has been lodged
under seal with the Commercial Banking Company of Sydney/ Ltd. (Pitt and
.Bathurst Streets Branch).
Now, get busy. Consult 0 MEE’ATT, Father of Fortune, King of Luckbring-
ers, and Inventor of Send Round the Hat.
N-S.W FIRE BRIGADES’ ART UNIO N FOR THE HOSPITALS AND AMBUL-
ANCES OF THE STATE (Sanctioned by the Attorney-General).
FIRST PRIZE:—A Solid Gold Fiteman’s Helmet, Valued at £lOOO
This is a veritable Pot of Luck.
?J? er „. Pr j? es : ~“ 2nd » Studebaker Six, £845; 3rd, Thornycroft Motor Lorry, £641;
4th. Six-Cylinder Nash, £595; sth, Austin Five-seater, £395; 6th, Buick Touring
Car, £39a; 7th. Essex Coach, £299; Bth, Shulz Player Piano, £225; 9th, Victor
£212; and 130 other prizes valued at from £275 to £4/10/-.
™KETS, 1/-. BOOKS OF 25 FOR £1; 12 TICKETS FOR 10/-; 6 TICKETS
UUK 0/-.
3475 CHANCES FOR £l.
Write to the Secretary of the Fire Brigades’ Art Union, Circular Quay Station,
.“Taney, N.S.W.
write plainly, state whether Mr., Mrs., or Miss.
drawing takes place at Fire Brigade Headquarters on August 10. Positively
no postponement. Closing date July 27.
Send Stamped and Addressed Envelopes for Ticket and Result Slip.
J. J. NEVILLE. Hon. Sec.
f
A Pill is
Edsij to take
Hdndij to use
Placemen the tongue
Take a little water - it’s gone!
What could be simpler?
Can be taken at any time
There is no better pill
Than Beecham’s Pills
Their effect is prompt and certain
The results are lasting
Of vegetable origin
They contain no harmful drugs
For sick headache, indigestion
Biliousness, constipation
BEECH AM’S PILES are
A wonderful medicine
afMSi <Ae m y-
tat it matt fc
jSeecAanCd
Marine
Engines
SATISFIED users are proofs |
of quality. Over 70% of
the leading boat-builders of
the world regard Kermath Marine
Engines as standard equipment.
All Parts Standard and Inter-
changeable. American Bosch
i. Magnetos —impulse coupling.
fsdf
3 to 100 H. P.
1 to 6
Cylinders
4 Cycle
Engines
HAI L BROS., LTD.,
Careening Cove (foot of Willoughby St.),
Milson’s Point, North Sydney, N.S.W
Kermath Manufacturing Co.
Detroit* Mich., U. S. A.
Cable Addreaaj-rKERMATH
»/»
*L
p
. rr>
CHRISTOPHER JOHNSON & CO., Sheffield,
FLAG BRAND CUTLERY. England.
Registered Trade-mark.
BRITISH
SCISSORS of
HIGH QUALITY.
SOLID STEEL. A LIFETIME’S WEAR.
Representatives:
NORMAN BAKER & LONGHURST, LTD.,
Sydney, Melbourne, and Wellington, N.Z.
sdf
No. 1369.
asdf
The morning shave is never a
trial if you use a PLUM.
Guaranteed and kept in order for
two years Free.
CRAIG & AITKEN,
654 George Street, Sydney.
THEP.
POST FREE
HARBOR TOURIST TRIPS
Weather and other circumstances permitting.
From Fort Macquarie at 10.15 a.m. and 2.15 p.m.
EVERY TUESDAY AND EVERY THURSDAY.
Fares: All-day, 2/6; Half-day, 1/6, Children, 1/- and 6d.
Luncheon by reservation at Clifton Gardens Hotel. Afternoon Tea on Board
SPECIAL TRIP EVERY SUNDAY „3 Pra .„ om No. 6 JETTY, CIRCULAR QUAY
86276 « lie). * /6 - «"• Sydmj Ui
Tels.


JOHNNIE
WANKER
Born 1820 ~ Still going Strong
ft’s easy to see why
‘JOHNNIE WALKER’
has the largest sale of
any whisky in the world
Xs
..A GT
A' v\\
/'STILL 001 i
f smi COIN
V STILL GGiN ;
/smi coni.
VSTILL COIN-
iSTILL CO!s
!STILL COII
I STILL 010 If,
/STILL com
««'! RCO 0
ygjtagy
*r-' T A 1 A U*.
<5 SNX A N T
/ 1 \v' .AN TaV>
0 1820
lL COINO LI"
,40 mim still come sim
fRN 1820 STILL 0010# STRO\
RN 1820
ORN 18*20
ORN 1820
ORN 1820
ORN 1820
BORN 1820
lORN 1820
lORN 1820
lORN 1820
BORN 1820
ORN 1820
ORN 1820
ORN 1820
ORN 1820
ORN 1820
ORN 18
ORN
ORN
ORN I
ORN I
ORN I
ORN 18
ORN 18
ORN 182
ORN 1820
ORN 1820
ORN 1820
ORN 1820
ORN 1820
ORN 1820
ORN 1820
ORN 1820
ORN 1820
ORN 1820
ORN 1820
ORN 1820
STILL 0010 C ST 1100
STILL 00100 STROO\
still COIOC smom
STILL €lOlOO STRONG
STILL 00100 STRONG
STILL 00100 STRONG
STILL 00100 STRONG
STILL 001.00 STROf
STILL 00100 ST!
STILL 00100 S
STILL 00101
ANT S f $ .-A
vS /\\ T.V .W
OV\\VV A A
m s 0v ~kn
OX'S V
vA\'
aV\'
&
i 0 0V
lORN 1820
lORN IB2olliii
lORN 1820
lORN 1820
lORN 1820
lORN 1820
1820
LO
ooci
STRONG
m STRONG
100 STRONG
00100 STRONd
, 00100 STRONG
STILL 0010 C STRONG
STILL 00100 STRONG
STILL 001.00 STRONG
STILL 00100 STRONG
STILL 00100 STRONG
STILL 00100 STRONG
STILL GOING STRONG
STILL 00100 STRONG
A' aANV V X > v-XV .ANV A A> .AN
s > $ uyi
A' .ANA' A A' A> V ,V\A A\v AAA ,'\A
..A aaaa a a a aAA aAA\ V AN A A\V
$k k XO 1 04
.A' aSaA- V AV vA\A vv s . AV
S l ILL L-sLHNL*
sir
u-s
STRONG
STRONG
S T P L' ' G IT! 00
r s ?|
k _, , -
<4
v NX.'
"'V
r
X
t
:r
Ta
