

:
I
■» A
Tv
WO R-LD'S
ECONOMY
CAR v
Mr. Andre Citroen's Message
to Australia for 1927
Since 1922, the Citroen has been first in
everything:
First in Price
First in Equipment
First in Power
First in Economy
First in Comfort and Appearance.
1927 is going to be a wonderful Citroen Year
and all future years will be Citroen years.
Citroen unquestionably occupies an outstanding
position everywhere and all the time.
Citroen will always lead the Motor-Car Industry.
The Citroen Factories, organized to produce a single type
of Chassis, is, as far as Europe is concerned, THE
■ LARGEST—THE MOST UP-TO-DATE THE
BEST ORGANISED—THE BEST EQUIPPED.
■vS-
I
i
\itlOty
wm
m
-r
M
Worlds
yjecoid
\42j
lustres
>Node
pO/
CITROEN AGENTS:
Marquette Motors Ltd.
121-131 Flinders Street, Sydney.
Maughan-Theim Motor Co.
Brisbane Equipment Co.
453 Ann Street, Brisbane.
M. C. Farrington,
185-189 Pulteney St., Adelaide. Customs Street East, Auckland.
Messrs. Gormack 8C Pettigrew, Invercargill and Gore.
Messrs. Citroen Cars Ltd., 205 Stuart Street, Dunedin.
Factory Distributors:
W. A. CROWLE LTD.
Crowle House - - Castlereagh Street - • Sydney
The Bulletin
Vol. 48.—N0. 2454*
Thursday, February 24, 1927.
Price 6d.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.


THE New Library Catalogue is now
ready and will be forwarded post free, with full
particulars, on application to
DYMOCK’S BOQK ARCADE, LTD.,
428 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
' -
my
■
&vV>. fv
1Y
Carry an inkwell
in your pocket^
Forget steel pens and inkpots
—they are things of the past.
Carry a fountain pen and have
ink wherever you go. Own a
pen that seems part of your
hand, that will always write the
same, that makes writing easy.
Choose a cc Swan.”
<c Swan ” nibs, which are
tipped with osmi-iridium—an
indestructible and wonderfully
smooth point will last a
life-time. Remember there’s a
cc Swan ” nib to suit every hand.
Oblique, Broad, Med. Broad,
Turned-up, Medium and Fine.
ec Swan ” Self -filling Fountpens
from 17/6 upwards
“ Swan ” Pens,Swan ” Ink, <f Blackbird ” Pens
Of Stationers and Jewellers
MABIE, TODD & CO., LTD.,
Swan House, 133 & 135 Oxford Street, London, W.t
Factory : Swan Works, London, N.W.
ď
Agents and Repair Service Depot:
PHIPSON & COMPANY, LTD.,
Broughton House, 181 Clarence Street, SYDNEY.
đ
“THE WOMAN’S MIRROR’
Contains everything that women should know, from kitchen to
drawing-room, from the cradle to old age.
FREE PATTERN EVERY WEEK.
It is the most remarkable Threepennyworth ever printed.
“THE WOMAN’S MIRROR.”
PUBLISHED EVERY TUESDAY,
Price - - 3d.
NOT A GERMAN POWDER.
mustdie:
MUSTDIE
POWDER must not be mistaken for insecti-
cide or common insect powders, 901110
which are sold under fancy names, •
“MUSTDIE” contains an ingredient W
ticularly fatal to that common bouse
aptly termed “The Typhoid Fly.”
“MUSTDIE” is sold everywhere by Chemists, Grocers, Storekeeper*,
or forward 1/- in stamps to Box 1520 G.P.0., Sydney®
The Red Page
Shakspeare’s Purse
By the reckoning of Sir Sidney Lee,
Shakspeare had, during 14 or ■l5 of the
later prosperous years of his life, an income
of £7(X) per annum, which that authority
estimates would be equivalent to £3500 to-
day ; but that is probably much under the
true figure. Many writers still think in the
monetary standards of half a generation
ago; and never has money decreased in
value so quickly. Seven thousand pounds
a year seems better to fit Shakspeare’s afflu-
ence.
There is a veil of mystery over what
Shakspeare did during most of the time be-
tween his leaving Stratford in 1585 and the
appearance of his name in 1592 in the list
of licensed actors known as “the Lord Cham-
berlain’s men”; but he was probably asso-
ciated with one of the theatres, first of all
as an attendant. It must have been upon
the business side that he made his money,
for, though he was a leading member of
a leading company, which included men like
the tragedian Richard Burbage, and had for
its comedy-merchant William Kemp, his
name as an actor has not been greatly pre-
served ; and, anyway, the rewards for acting
and authorship were very poor, even allow-
ing for the standards of the time. Up to
1599 the highest recorded price paid to an
author for a play was £ll, the minimum
being £6, although an extra ten shillings
might be thrown in by a delighted manager
who found a play a winner: on a revival
an “author’s benefit” performance Was cus-
tomary, but that would not produce a for-
tune. On the acting side there does not
seem to have been much chance for a large
income either. The dozen members of a
company had to divide their share of the
profits; and an outright salary of £lBO per
annum was exceptional. Just what was
thought a good return, as far as the com-
pany was concerned, can be gauged by the
fact of £lO for the 'whole company being
regarded as a fair fee for performances given
in the Palace or the homes of distinguished
personages.
But much more might be made by a suc-
cessful manager. The Globe Theatre, where
the prices ranged from one penny to two
shillings aud sixpence, with some extras
made by letting out cushions to sybaritic
patrons, held 1200 people, and its average
gross revenue amounted to about £3OOO a
year, of which about half w r as absorbed by
actors’ salaries and expenses. Shakspeare
originally had a tenth share in the Globe,
but he sold some of it, and finally had only
a fourteenth ; he also had a seventh share
in the Blackfriars, the theatre de luxe of
the day—it was completely roofed —and the
higher charges in this exclusive show-house
probably made the profits more.
Income also flowed from patrons to whom
plays and poems were dedicated; but the
patron who came forward with more than
a couple of guineas was regarded as show-
ing a princely generosity. “Venus and
Adonis” and “The Rape of Lucrece” were
dedicated to the Earl of Southampton, who,
according to Nicholas Rowm, gave Shaks-
peare £lOOO to finance a purchase he wished'
to make; but that w T as probably a loan to
a man who had proved his business capacity.
The mystery is as to where Shakspeare
got the capital to invest in the. theatres
which provided the lion’s share of his in-
come in the later years of his life, and the
money which enabled him to pay £970 for
Stratford properties alone. Up to 1599 he
had produced 19 of his plays, and, accord-
ing to the rates previously mentioned, with
authors’ benefits and patrons’ fees he may
have made about £25 per year out of play-
writing. After 1599, liis plays having be-
come popular, he. probably made at least
twice as much. His salary as an actor was
not likely to be large until, as a manager, he
had a right to say what he should be paid.
There was no revenue from the sale of copies
of the plays; the plays were not published
during his lifetime. Both managers and
actors regarded books which gave the oppor-
tunity to patrons to read the play instead
of seeing it as bad for business.
The key to the mystery may be the misty
years when, a young man of 21, he arrived
in London and probably became an atten-
dant at one of the theatres. Theatrical his-
tory is full of instances of “front-of-the-
house men” becoming affluent in jobs that
were poorly paid but offered pickings. Traf-
ficking in seats, tips from determined patrons
for the discovery of vacant seats whose exist-
ence has been denied at the box-office, and
other methods give “the man on the doors”
his opportunity—or did before numbered
seats' came into vogue. Shakspeare idola-
tors may be indignant at the suggestion that
this was the foundation of their idol’s afflu-
ence, but it seems the most reasonable
explanation.
Shakspeare was able to retire to Strat-
ford while still in middle-age. The Rev.
John Ward, a subsequent vicar of Stratford,
recorded a rumor that the dramatist spent
in the last years of his life at the rate of
£lOOO a year; there would be his rents and
farm operations as well as his still-held
holdings in the London theatres to provide
the money. These interests are not men-
tioned in his will, which in those days did
not always disclose full details of an estate,
it being possible to gift property, the gift
to operate upon death, outside the testamen-
tary devises. The will left £350 in cash
and real property which had cost altogether
£l2oo—a very substantial estate according
to the standards of the time. It also left
the testator’s second-best bed to his wife
which w 7 as probably not the slight that has
been made of it. The best bed was reserved
for guests; so it may have been sentiment
which prompted the gift of the second-best
to the wife who had shared it with him.
H. M.
From Billingsgate to Optimism
A young library friend of mine the other
day took 14 rungs in one stride toward popu-
lar success. He had written a story in which
the hero was thrown from a horse, rolled on
and jumped on. Death was instantaneous.
Then, so he tells me. he read People , the
novelist Edgar Wallace’s autobiography
(Hodder and Stoughton), and so powerful
was the influence of its optimism that he at
once resurrected his hero, and sold the
story.
Edgar Wallace has written some two
dozen volumes of light fiction, several of
them quite entertaining. He is now able
to “watch the wondrous patience and cour-
age of those who are struggling up behind.”
He can class lnmseif “among the lowly who
grew to the stature of our faith, and are
growing still.” And, having reached that
line level, he is able to say: “There cannot
be' much wrong with a society which made
possible the rise either of J. H. Thomas or
Edgar Wallace, that gave ‘Jamie’ Brown
the status of a king in Scotland, and put
Robertson at the War Office as Chief of the
Imperial General Staff. We were the poor
who were not satisfied with our poverty.”
Without for a moment wishing to infer that
that is cant or bombast, I would meekly
suggest that it is moonshine. It is the
gilded upside-down of the sort of stuff which
is spouted in the Domain every Sunday. It
was not dissatisfaction which gave these men
their lift—-nearly everybody is dissatisfied —it
was ability plud energy, which has enabled mien
to rise in even the most deplorable societies
in history. Wallace, endowed with brains, gets
to the top and shouts in effect, “Society’s
all right—look at me!” The Domain orator,
addressing a lot of massed mediocrity, shouts,
“Society’s all wrong—look at you!” And
both talk nonsense.
Nevertheless, Wallace has had a pictur-
esque career, in the course of which he lias
developed a power of human sympathy and
understanding. When he was nine days old
he was saved from the Greenwich work
house by a Billingsgate fish porter named
Freeman. “She’s adopted,” said Mr. Free-
man, and that settled it.
At 11 Wallace started his career, selling
copies of the Echo, “a bilious-looking sheet
that was remarkable for its high moral tone
and the accuracy of its tips.” Followed
dozens of different job 3, type-slinging, cook
on a trawler, plasterer’s laborer and assist-
ant to a milkman, this last a passionate
abstainer when not on the drunk and a
chief noble of the Sons of the Phoenix. Then
Wallace enlisted in the permanent army, was
transferred to South Africa, discovered his
journalistic ability and a facility for writing
verse in the Kipling manner, and bought his
discharge. Soon after, the Boer War broke
out and he went through it as a correspon-
dent. Afterwards he became editor of the
Rand Daily Mail at £2OOO a year, and,
speculating in. mining stocks, made £12,000
in one week and lost £20,000 in three hours.
He arrived back in London with 35., much
less than he had when he sailed as a Tommy
six years before.
For a time he continued in journalism,
taking risks that would have made his edi-
tors' hair stand on end, or sprout again, had
they known about it. At one international
conference which he attended, the Italian
representative emerged from, the sitting in
camera and rushed tb the telegraph office.
Wallace followed, saw the delegate hand in
a thick bundle of telegrams, and, with no
other information than that, wired his paper
that the Italian mission had failed. He
simply deduced that, if the mission had suc-
ceeded, the Italian would have sent a'short,
jubilant wire; the bundle of telegrams he
guessed was a long explanation of failure.
He was right, as it happened, and on paper
it looks a very smart piece of journalism.
Rut this fancy for guessing let him down
heavily when a little later lie wired an
account of a warship mutiny that did not
come off. This little scoop cost the London
Daily Mail £5OOO and Wallace his job.
But in the meantime he had been discovering
his special ability—the writing of best-sellers
—and. after a shaky beginning, during
which he had a bailiff in and won enough from
him at piquet to buy him out, Wallace rose
to the position from which, he can thank
society for letting him up.
It. is an interesting life, breezily
written, sketched in with human touches
that make one think of Henry Lawson’s
outlook and people. He sees starvation
and dirt not as the hall-mark of poverty,
but as the normal condition of thriftlessness.
Side by side with his studies of social con-
ditions he has carried on a study of crime,
and devotes ope chapter of his book to
theorising upon it. Criminals he divides
into three classes: (1) Through opportunity;
(2) through real or imaginary necessity;
(3) through deliberate intention. With the
first two classes the "good time” motive
largely operates; to the second category
belong most murderers. For these two classes
he has mostly sympathy: for the third:—
There are judges who are divided in opinion a 8
to whether long or short sentences have the most
reformative effect, but the length of the sentence
matters very little. The only thing that will halve
and quarter the number of men who, are in and
out of prison year after year is the alteration of
the prison regime; until prison is a really horrible
place, at which the discharged prisoner turns and
shakes his fist, you will have little or no diminution
of professional crime.... There is only one effective
weapon in the hands of the law for dealing with
the Criminal, and that is the weapon of terrorisa-
tion.... Grime would be very considerably decreased
if a new form of punishment were instituted. There
should be disciplinary prisons, where file punishment
was short and sharp; where, within the limits of
humanity, a prisoner’s life should be made so un-
bearable that he would never risk a' repetition of
his experience.
On the other hand.Jie considers it absurd
to imprison an embezzling milkman for nine
months, depriving his family of his support,
when the same result could be achieved by
a fortnight’s discipline. A postman with 20
years’ service who has been detected stealing
letters should have only a technical con-
viction ; his ruin is complete before the
sentence is passed.
Apart from these theories, which have
obvious flaws, Wallace lets his own story
lapse a while to deal with the methods of
criminals. Receivers, he has discovered
usually buy the proceeds of a robbery before
it is committed. They visit the places that
are to be burgled, buy some small article
or other and fix their prices. Burglars, it is
(Continued on page S.)


2L
a
’ace
Men’s Clothing Appealingly Priced
at AntHony Horderns’
Motorists’ Needs.
I
L
Fitted Motor Cases.
Suit Case Style, for 2, 4 or 6 persons,
contains Stainless Knives, Forks, Spoons,
White Enamel Cups and Plates, quart-
size Vacuum Flasks, N.P. Food Tins.
Washable lining—
Covered Black Enamel Duck—
-4 persons, Price .... £7/15/-
6 persons, Price .. . £lO/10/-
Covered Solid Cowhide—
-2 persons, Price £5/5/-
4 persons, Price .... £lO/17/6
6 persons, Price .... £ll/17/6
Tablecase
Motor Table Case.
A suit case in appearance, this novelty
develops into an efficient outdoor dining
outfit. The Table Case, folded (see small
inset), measures 24 x 16 x 4 inches. It
contains four camp-stools of wood and
steel, with Pegamoid leather seats; also
Sandwich Tin, 12 x 8 x 3 inches. The
case, when opened, forms a sturdy table
24 x 32 inches. It has nickel-plated angle
shields, and is covered with Pegamoid
leather. The four telescopic legs are of
stamped angular steel. The whole outfit
is finished in hard-wearing black. ,
Price . /5/-
Thermos Flasks.
Genuine English Thermos Flask, well
made, a necessity to all motorists on long
trips. Will keep hot for hours. Nickel-
plated.
Size 1 1-| 2 pints.
Price 15/- 20/- 22/6
Vacuum Flasks.
Unbreakable Steel-lined Vacuum
Flasks. An exceptional value. cTh /
Size 2 pints. Price oU / “
Size 4 pints.
Price .. • .
60/
Enhance your personal
appearance. Select a dis-
tinctive Suit at Anthony
Ho rder n s\ Although
moderately priced, the
qualities and vatues are
paramount .
Ready-to-Wear Double-Breasted
Suits.
The workmanship of these Double-Breasted
Suits is of a character exclusive to Anthony
Horderns . The styles will last, not one, but
several seasons. Made from fancy worsted
materials brought direct from the mills, all
intermediate profits being eliminated.
Choose from Medium, Dark and Light
Greys. Exceptional value of outstanding
excellence.
Prices
115|-t0126|-
Guaranteed Indigo-dyed Navy
Serges. Price
126/-
£7|17(6
Made to Measure. A
perfectly-tailored suit
by Anthony Horderns’
own expert tailors, faultlessly made and fin-
ished throughout. Suits are cut and tailored
to your own individual style and taste, from
excellent quality English and Australian
Worsteds. You have a choice of either
Blue-Grey,
Navy shades.
Fawn
Price
£7/17/6
£6/61-
Made to Measure. Careful
tailoring, combining your
personal style preferences
with accepted decrees of Bond Street, is
assured if your order is placed with Anthony
Horderns’. Write to-day for self-measure-
ment form and patterns, posted free on
request, and select from New Worsteds in
shades of Greys and Brown, showing Her-
ringbone, Plain and Check de
signs; also Navy Indigo
dye Serge. Pries ........
£6/6/-
■im*.
s mm
1
m.
m
Exceptional Shirt Values.
Men’s Poplin de Luxe Golf Shirts —a
splendid wearing and washing shirt. In
a range of exclusive check de-
signs, on various
grounds. Price .. .
colored
14(6
Men’s Poplin de Luxe Golf Shirts, featur-
ing Satin stripes, in novel, con
trasting color effects.
Price
15/6
Men’s British Zephyr Golf Shirts, durable
weave, in smart neat stripes, on
White ground. Price,.
8/6
Men’s British Poplin Golf Shirts —a
super-weave, in smart satin stripes on
light and medium grounds—
a shirt popular with all
Price
men.
12/6
The Sports Shirt, made with roll back
collar, which also buttons close up to neck.
White Mercerised Twill. Price. . . 7/6
Cream Bradford Twill Price .... 7/6
White Poplin de Luxe. Price .... 10/6
Natural Fuji Silk. Price 19/6
(Mercery—Ground Floor, George Street.)
ANTHONY HORDERN & Sons Limited
G.P.O. Box 2 712 C.
BRICKFIELD HILL. SYDNEY.
Telephone: City 9440.


Owners of Morris cars
This letter interests you f
1
daw!
Go 4 **
6^
Vo>- 0
v .O# jV iv)' 4lC
C qO** >
aw 1
cP
ssP
»* (.!>
'c^vfO^
w o*f;>
y 5« v
Y 9* b '
,cl « ■'* °
yrA" *
0 V
SV ,
o.V
«*&s&*s£
v *&»*>*•• v** . . T'-'^
-J , s® r ’
U *“
,i.v>
There’s a Grade for
Every Car.
The Manufacturers of “Sternol,” the British Motor Oil, have received numerous letters
from owners of Morris Cars, all of which letters state the complete satisfaction that
“Sternol” is giving.
One Morris owner writes:—
“I shall recommend your wonderful ‘Sternol’ Oil to all my motoring friends, and my
opinion is ‘once tried always used.’
Another writer says: “Previously the engine got overheated on the road, which caused
delay, but I find lately she is running much better, and I can only put it down to the
change in oil.”
“Sternol” means easy starting, less carbon, fewer overhauls, minimum wear and tear,
greater power and longer life for the engine.
If you own a Morris, then, for the sake of the engine, you should use the oil which is
approved by the Morris Manufacturers. Get a tin of “Sternol” to-day and give it a
trial—then you will understand why so many Morris owners state they “will use no other.”
Obtainable from all reliable garages.
WILLIAM ADAMS € COMPANY
m LI M ITEP. ✓
SYDNEY: 175 Clarence Street.
BRISBANE: Edward and Mary Streets.
PERTH: 33-35 King Street.
MELBOURNE: 521-523 Collins Street.
ADELAIDE: 157 Waymouth Street.
NEWCASTLE: 17 Bolton Street.
rny
*?
'h.
N>
w?
V>7 N
> ?
\
lit"
m
j*
STERNOL 01
mmifiiiii
AKES ENGINES PURR
sss
BS3
Mil
II
i
i
WILLIAM ADAMS & COMPANY LIMITED
"** nlLmm **W£ ADEU.K
" *llln


OUR MEN’S SHOE SPECIAL
One Price.
The workmanship and materials are guaranteed
by David Jones’. Ten styles, made from se-
lected Black Box Calf, Tan Willow Calf, Glace
Kid or Patent Leather.
PI ere are five outstanding features:—
1. Linings are linen and leather.
2. Soles of solid Butt Leather.
3. Eyelets are celluloid covered.
4. Thread used to sew uppers is
strong silk and Egyptian Four-
Cord Cotton.
5. In full and half sizes.
We claim these to be the best Men's Shoe Valve in Sydney »
DAVID JONES’
For Service.
comforting to know, are a very timid class,
their nightmare the vision of a householder
armed with a revolver. lj iere . 1S > accoidmg
to Wallace, not one burglar in a hundred
who does not go through life with this
horror hanging over him. He deals witn
others—jargooners, confidence men, counter-
feiters; states that between the police and
the continuous criminal there is very excel-
lent feeling,” and rates the law-breaker s
cnance of escaping detection as almost nil.
And so, using, his experiences of crimi-
nals and the ordinary people of life for his
stepping-stones, this one pt the battling
millions who happened to be endowed with
special ability and energy can look back
now from the land of optimism to the lanes
of Billingsgate and announce cheerfully that
he will be broke again and rich again, but
whatever he is he’ll bet it will be interesting.
It will be, because lie will make it so. Nature,
not society, has been kind to him.
CECIL MANN.
W. Somerset Maugham
We who fancy ourselves as critics have,
of course, our own opinion of “Rain,” Somer-
set Maugham’s famous short-story, play,
epoch-marking work of art, literary master-
piece, and what not. We know that it is
the crudest, clumsiest rechauffe of an old
dreary melodrama, without the guts of melo-
drama and without one hint of originality
in treatment or conception. Assuming our
superior critical air, we think we can see
the cause of the shoddy story’s resonant
notoriety. The modern sliort-story is often a
psychological thesis propounded and proved.
When the writer is really at work he makes
this proof in a sort of delicate, deliberate
inadvertence subdued to his plot, atmo-
sphere and characters; so that the critical
reader, after he has admired the illusion
of reality, says: “That’s exactly what Jones
and Mary Smith would have done in those
circumstances; they couldn’t have done any-
thing else.” In “Rain” (wherein the mis-
sionary and the lady of easy virtue could
certainly have done nothing else, vide the
entire melodramatic tradition from Malory
to Hall Caine) this artistic duty of deliber-
ate inadvertence is ignored; the vocifer-
ously correct psychological reactions are
chucked at us solid in their resounding grada-
tions. As critics we know that the sky-
pilot will feel a call to convert the gay lady,
that the rain will drum on the roof like
never-ending tom-toms, that the good man
wall fall for and with the lady, that he will
compass his own end. As uncritical
readers we suspect all this from about the
third paragraph—and, by Jove, that is how
the yarn works out! So millions of un-
critical readers find themselves psychological
experts and critics. And what could be
better publicity than that?
With the critical air still in esse one
passes over the plays, too. They are all
good, capable jobs, achieving their passing
purpose and exemplifying the dialogue-sensi-
tiveness which is one of the really good
features of Maugham’s novels and stories.
They made and make a heap of money (at
one time there were four successful Maugh-
am plays running simultaneously in London)
and a heap of popular fame.
When “The Trembling of a Leaf” and “On
a Chinese Screen” came out I thought they
had also permanently “busted” an elusively
sensitive writer —not a strong writer, as
the publishers like to call him, but a man
who could do delicate things beyond the reach
of most modern popular writers. In The
Painted Veil and The Gasuarina, Tree (Heine-
mann ; Dymock’s) Maugham shows that his
literary conscience has weathered the storm.
One imagines him sitting back in the secu-
rity of his commercial eminence and say-
ing to this temporarily ignored conscience:
“Now, let’s see what we can do together.”
Hence the nuns in “The Painted Veil” —not
the gross psychological gesture of the book’s
opening nor the excellently-developed theme
of the story, but those still nuns, black and
still in the white glare of the cholera-stricken
town, like fixed notes of eternal thought
in a maelstrom of hysteria and terror. That
is one of the rare delicate things I mean.
The clamor of “Rain” and “Mrs. Dot,” “The
Explorer” and “Jack Straw” was shut away
that this artist should in little subtleties
and pungencies achieve the vigilance, the
spiritual power, the enveloping selfless
charity of these European strangers cast
for God's work in this Eastern dunghill of
fear and death.
A pungent reticence is to me the main
quality of “The Casuarina Tree.” All the six
stories have an austerity, an elegant auster-
ity of treatment, which is deliberately reti-
cent and yet vivid and effective. Some of
the yarns suffer the defects of their quali-
ties. “The Outstation,” for instance, is not
quite sure whether it is a character-study of
a snob or of a ranker; its central incident
being a murder, it is forced into a melo-
dramatic atmosphere demanding the over-
coloring of both characters, which elimi-
nates all chance of a convincing study of
either. The yarn is saved by the trimming
of all dialogue down to the absolutely bare
bones of need. Maugham works hard with
dialogue, hard and successfully; instead of
getting his effect by fulness or lightness
of touch, he keeps steadily to his formula of as
little as possible, and that little most directly
to the point. Thus he contrives that austere
reserve which makes his people real—a man
doesn’t lay out his whole soul and philosophy
of life for your inspection in a sliort-storv
about him.
“The Letter” is melodramatic, too, and so is
“Before the Party”—both ingenious situations
skilfully developed, but because of those
usually good qualities, poor yarns in the
formula that Maugham is working out.
Indeed, I think melodrama is still his pitfall;
he seems tor ever to be trying to fit “Rain”
to those nuns in “The Painted Veil,” and
that cannot possibly be done. “P. and O.”
is to me the most satisfying of the stories ;
it lias no psychological carpentry and no
rnelodramatic plot—merely the unloosening
of the inherent charity in a woman’s heart
under the impact of a shock. Here all the
good qualities of a man’s work are in play:
that subtly elegant austerity disdaining the
cheap and flashy short-cut; the bare-bones
dialogue, which is a lesson in how much
can be left out to the great improvement
of the picture; the straight simplicity of
narrative which is the hard way for the
short-story, but the best way.
All the world is asking Maugham to
write another “Rain” and to carry on writing
Rains ; but one salutes his obvious determina-
nation to work out some formula wherein
his conscience and the whole of his artistic
equipment can write together.
HILARY LOFTING.
Australian-made Music
Music, like religion, is an easy thing to
write about. The very vagueness and intangi-
bility of tbis art lead to the making of
much metaphysic and the spinning of many
critical cobwebs, in which the unwary and
lambent musical flies become entangled with
much buzzing. For, like religion also, it
is to the emotions that music makes strongest
appeal, and the human emotions are very
captious and volatile properties. Music has
its dogmas, its ritual and its traditions; and
many of its patrons and apologists wax
fanatical in defence, proving—very often —
that the less one knows about a subject the
more one can say about it.
“Second Fiddle” (R.P. 27/l/’27) subscribes
to one of the oldest musical dogmas—that
of the patent nationality of music. “Cosmo-
politanism,” he says, inter alia, “is all very
well, but. . . . Australians will never be music-
makers, in the larger sense, until they are
stirred into something like race-conscious-
ness.” Now, as a plain man, I ask what con-
dition of herd morality may be described as
“something like race-consciousness”? I fail
to see that to become conscious of one’s
racial shortcomings— i.e., of our national
youth, our lack of artistic tradition, our
isolation from the cultural centres of older
countries, our worship of wealth, our dearth
of great statesmen and our perilous position
in the Pacific —will in any way fire the
creative spirit in our composers. And if,
on the other hand, we overlook these things,
and in belauding our national virtues, real
and imaginary, swagger with the pride' of a
flag-flapping patriotism, it is hard to con-
ceive of the birth of any musical composition
transcending our arid anthem, “Australia
Will Be There.” For the braggart spirit
is entirely foreign to the best music, which is
in no way typical of the tribe.
Music, while not absolutely universal —for
who could imagine a Javanese audience
applauding the Schumann Concerto? —is
much less national in its appeal than practi-
cally any other art. All great music, from
Palestrina to Percy Grainger, belongs to the
Western world. Bach’s “Chromatic Fantasy
and Fugue,” Berlioz’s “Damnation of Faust”
and the songs of Pergolese find equal favor
in, say, America, despite the fact that their
composers w r ere respectively German, French
and Italian. It may be a pleasing fancy
to imagine one hears the woes of a crushed
nation throbbing in the compositions of a
self-immolated Pole; but Chopin’s music
charms every audience in Europe. Cesar
Franck was a Belgian ; but I defy the most
ardent nationalist to discover anything Bel-
gian in “The Beatitudes.” Liszt was a
Hungarian, who borrowed his themes from
the Gipsies. Mozart was an Austrian, but
his country’s “race-consciousness” was not
allowed to obtrude itself in his Requiem
Mass. Patriotic pride never galvanised the
genius of Richard Wagner; and one seeks in
vain for any “Marseillaise” motif in the
moonbeam sonorities of Debussy. It is only
in the music of mob-vanity, jingo jubilation,
vaudeville songs and the bagpipes that the
flag of nationality is seen to wave.
The composer who adopts certain distinct-
ive rhythmic figures and peculiar modal inter-
vals, combined solely to furnish “local color”
to a composition, may give his music a camou-
flage of nationalism, but cannot endow it
with the elements of universality and great-
ness. Henry Tate may, as “Second Fiddle”
claims, incorporate Australian bird-calls in
his melodies. He may monopolise the moke-
rhythm of the bushman, weave contrapuntal
conceptions of a kangaroo, or pattern a
pedal-bass on the platypus. But these will
never give his work the stamp of greatness.
The music of the mopoke is more for the
museum than the concert-hall. I have always
failed to hear anything Australian in “The
Colonial Song” of Percy Grainger. I have
never heard magnies in the melodies of
Roy Agnew, or seen wattle in the notes of
Molly Carew, or smelt gum-leaves in the
songs of I). J. Coutts. I have never been
reminded of the gold-diggings in the music
of Louis Lavater or of cattle-duffing in
Alfred Hill. I have searched in vain for
any distinctive insularity in the operas of
Fritz Hart. Fritz is a compound of Irish-
man and Jew, and his music, from “Ruth”
to “The Song of Mary,” is cosmopolitan to
a degree.
The air is thick with rag-time ;_we have
adopted this jejune American jingle as
our national goose-step. Trashy songs
and syncopated snippets of specious
melodies are churned out nightly by
every band that boasts a saxophone. But
apart from aboriginal war-cries and bar-
baric chants we have no folk-songs; and no
music will ever come by trying to interpret
our national “race-consciousness” in a trans-
lation of the characteristics of the crowd.
Idiomatic piquancy and interpretative pene-
tration belong to the composer as an indivi-
dual, not as a member of a mob. So that
when music written in Australia does finally
achieve a world-wide recognition it will be
found to possess neither the tonal sense
of aboriginal antiquity nor the doggerel har-
monies of the local jazz-palais. For the
greatest music is a language—not a tribal
dialect.
AUTOPSY.
Some Modern Art
Ethel Anderson (R.P. 20/l/’27) says of
pictures exhibited recently at the Grosvenor
Galleries, and more particularly those of
Mr. Roi de Mestre: “It is hard for me to
say how much I admire them. For since
they are great art —not illustrative art-
they cannot be described in terms of any
other art.” And later, that we cannot see
through any words of hers the “beauty of
these superb canvases. You must experience
this beauty for yourselves.” I must confess
to having seen the canvases without experi-
encing the beauty. It seems to me that if
these pictures are the great art Mrs. Ander-
son asserts them to be, it should be quite
unnecessary to describe them in terms of any
other art —they should speak for themselves
and at that in no uncertain voice for all
to hear.
A great poem, a fine piece of prose, good
music—all are recognisable of themselves.
Even if they fail to appeal to one’s indivi-
dual taste, they are still recognisable as
great works. (Surely this should also be true
of art. Art —pictorial art —is the surest and
greatest medium through which, if a man
has anything to say, he may speak to his
fellow-men. We do not all speak one
language, nor is the fine diction of our
great writers always familiar to the unedu-
cated, but surely we can all see the beauty
that is in truth. Mr. Roi de Mestre’s utter-
ances, along with those of most other exhibi-
tors in the show in question, if they mean
anything at all, were for the chosen few.
It was as if you went to hear someone
lecture who, coming into the hall, spoke a
few sentences in Hindustani and went away.
No doubt a chosen few in the audience who
knew Hindustani would be pleased, and
many who did not know it would look
pleased to cover their ignorance. Most of
us would know that, having nothing to
say worth saying, the speaker had masked
his speech in this strange form to deceive
us with a little superficial cleverness.
Mrs. Anderson goes on to say - in quota-
tion that the canvases have a beauty “which
may be envied by the natural beauty of
God Himself.” Surely it were better that
art should be a tribute to our Maker, a
means of pointing out to those with less
vision how beautiful are the things of
this world. That this is possible in modern
art was amply illustrated by Mr. George
Lambert's painting of an egg and a cauli-
flower. Many people who had previously
regarded cauliflowers as agreeable vegetables
exclaimed on looking at it “How beautiful
a cauliflower is !” So the egg and cauliflower
possess educational as well as artistic value;
these others find it difficult to justify their
existence.
D. E. PAUL.
A Satchel of Books
Human Bits, by Hildegarde Hume Hamilton
(Alden). A collection of short stories, readable but
without distinction.
Stead’s Books for the Bairns (Ernest Benn). A
series of cheap illustrated booklets for young folk.
Hans Andersen, Wilhelm Hauff, Charles Kingsley,
Lewis Carroll, Froebel, Le Fanu and many others are
drawn on.
As It Was, by H.T. (Heinemann). A love story
with all the intimacies £f passion, but refined by a
love of beauty, and written with a simplicity and
charm of style that lifts it out of the trough.
The Cambridge Platonists, by F. J. Powicke
(Dent). A study of the work of a succession of
Cambridge men since the seventeenth century who,
according to Dean Inge, made notable contributions
to Christian philosophy.
Essentials of Logie, by A. Wolf (Allen and
Unwin). Cordially recommended to Australian
legislators and others as a painstaking effort to
demonstrate the right road to a logical conclusion.
Clarity is its outstanding quality.
Why Tuberculosis Exists, by R. Goulburn Lovell
(Bale, Sons and Danielssohn). This book aims at
dispersing what its author describes as “the cloud of
prejudice, misstatement and incomplete information
•which, along with other factors, has retarded the
work of securing the large-scale application of Henry
Spahlinger’s tuberculosis cure to patients in the
British Empire.” With reference to Australia, trie
writer takes Neville Howse to task for stating in his
report to the Commonwealth Government that on tne
evidence submitted he was unable to recommenci
that money be spent on the treatment. Air Love
declares that from his intimate knowledge he can
affirm that General Howse did not go into tne
evidence at Geneva, but declined to do so.
Gurglings of an Australian Magpil, bv Jenny Wien
(Specialty Press, Ltd., Melb.). She gurgles nice.j,
but
“When I long to soar and fly,
Well —I have to make a pie.”
And a pie may be as satisfying as a sonnet.
The Orient I Found, by Thomas J. McMahon
(Duckworth). The author followed the usual touiiSi
route from Melbourne to China arid Japan, but no
saw more than the average tourist sees and has
recorded his impressions fairly well, though with a
tendency to lapse into hasty generalisations. He
found plenty of virtues in Japan and much latent
power in China, and counsels Australia to study hei
neighbor with a view to a better understanding.
Essays New and Old, by Aldous Huxley (Chatto
and Windus). Huxley’s pose of a bored and some-
times ribald cynic fails to conceal the fact that he
is a passionate devotee of the best in life, art and
literature. Whether he is discussing popular music,
the importance of being Nordic or the movies, he
never gets off his sound critical foundations and
he never forgets to be witty. A signed edition,
limited to 650 copies.
Citizenship, by E. J. S. Lay (Macmillan). The
author of this handy text-book on every-day social
problems wrote originally for the youth of England.
Finding it well appreciated, the publishers have now
adapted it to the special circumstances of the Com
monwealth by making certain necessary amendments
in the text. Several chapters have been re-written, as
for example those on education and government, and
a number of English illustrative examples changed to
Australian ones. A very useful little book for Young
Australia.
*
“C. H. Winter”: Some remarks I made anent the
Kudd family unduly agitated Bronson Elliott. Yet
while he hastens to pour scorn on my conclusions he
stumbles into agreement with them. For instance,
he says: “ ‘On Our Selection’ was a tour-de-force.
It was a faithful record of its time and place, a
photographic picture of one section only of the
pioneer selectors.” Then, dreading the label “ortho-
dox,” he continues: “The later books in the series
have falsely made typical of the whole body of
selectors that one section.” If Mr. Elliott will re-
read my article he will find that I specified only
two “Selection” books —“Our New Selection” was
the second. (The first, of course, was “On Our
Selection.”) These are the two that count in Steele
Rudd’s work. The “later books” have no place in
this discussion. Mr. Elliott is regarding the long
ago through the kindly eyes of the present. Bungling
was as common among the early selectors as among
other classes of the community. And many bungling
farmers have risen to affluence in the same way as
Dad —through the cheap labor of their families. If
Bronson Elliott will “think back” he will probably
recollect numerous farmers’ sons who claimed that
their own dads were “doubles” of Dad Rudd. Possibly
bush folk in those days were not so thin-skinned
as Mr. Elliott is to-day. At any rate, objectors to
the Rudd “libel” could have been counted on a
snake’s legs. It may be worth recalling that Steele
Rudd received a letter of appreciation signed by the
entire population of a bush town. Presumably the
people who gave this striking tribute knew as much
about selection life as Bronson Elliott; but if they
found Steele Rudd’s work “slanderous” they omitted
to mention the fact.


The New, Finer
CHRYSLER
The new, finer Chrysler “70” is a
turning point in motor car body
design—forecasting the new vogue
in motoring for years to come.
70'
It is a car whose fresh, new
beauty ignores the accepted and
strikes out into an even more pro-
nounced Chrysler leadership.
Newer, more exquisitely grace-
ful bodies of exclusive Chrysler
design—newer luxury of comfort
—newer, greater riding ease —
newer richness of upholstery—
newer, finer hardware and fit-
tings;—newer refinements in con-
trols and lighting—newer, more
attractive colour blendings—
And, while Chrysler sets this
new mark in motor body beauty,
the Chrysler “70” chassis remains
basically the same. Slight—but
valuable refinements have
been made, yet it is as emphati-
cally as ever years ahead of con-
temporary achievement in
proved performance, dependa-
bility, economy and long life.
Believe what Chrysler enthusiasts say t by all means —but
why not make the nearest Chrysler dealer show you proof ?
t
SLA
m
AUSTRALASIAN DISTRIBUTORS:
N.S. W.:LarkeNeave& Carter Ltd. Grenville House, William Street Sydney
Motors Pty, Ltd., Chrysler House, Collins Street, Melbourne.
§«*•• W ar d Motors Limited, Wickham Street. Brisbane,
rth' Aust.: 0. T. Rodda Motors Ltd., Flinders Street, Adelaide.
West, Aust.: William Attuioott, 299-301 Murray Street, Perth.
sler Motor Co. Pty. Ltd„ Hobart and Launceston.
N.£.: Todd Motor Company, 97 Courtenay Place, Wellington,
298.


\ \
X
hss*
o
mm;
A
V
m
** **
$ n\' »ss£%
\t
> N s
r>V
ILL
i n i i rr-rrrri rmn i i i i i 1 i 'll 11 I i 11 I l l n i i i i i i I i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i rrn inn rn n \ i i i rm
Keeping in touch
with Fashions for men
THE well-groomed man —the man who
knows the value of correct style—
chooses Pelaco Guaranteed Shirts.
He knows “they fit.” He knows, from
long experience that the Pelaco label
means long and satisfactory wear with
quality and style in every stitch. He
knows he’s assured of the newest patterns,
the latest tonings, faultless tailoring and
perfect comfort when he asks for Pelaco.
Pelaco Fashion Shirts in the new cedar
tones —the forecast for this coming season
—are showing at your nearest Mercer’s
Each garment guaranteed . Ask your Mercer what this means
r
II inHIII I II 11 i i i ill i i i i i IT7
§
'ly'n.
cLYcirvteecU
SHIRTS
27/1
COLLARS and PYJAMAS -
Pelaco Ltd., Richmond, Victoria and all States


d
The Rudge - Whitworth Patent
Proportional Coupled Brakes are
another important feature. This
device gives maximum stopping
power while reducing the possi-
bility of skidding to an absolute
minimum.
The Interchangeable Wheels for
cutting out roadside troubles; the
system of mechanical lubrication,
the new steering damper and the
improved clutch are other impor-
tant factors, all of which make for
the comfort of the rider.
RUDGE Motor-
cycles are quite
superior and will
reflect your pride
of ownership
I
For full particulars write to the Agent in your territory:
FLOWER, DAVIES and JOHNSON 404 Murray-street, Perth, W.A.
BEHRENS THIEM CO., 3 Devon House, Chesser-street, Adelaide, S.A.
ROGERS BROS. PTY. LTD., 305 Swanston-street, Melbourne, Vic.
BIDEN and ROBERTS, 150 Hay-street, Sydney, N.S.W.
CANADA CYCLE and MOTOR AGENCY (Queensland), Ltd., Creek-st
Brisbane, Queensland.
J. BILYARD, 110 Elizabeth-street, Hobart, Tasmania.
CARL MANTACH, 110 Charles-st., Launceston, Tasmania.
Factory Representative: JAMES THORNELL
Sheffield House, Pitt-street, Sydney, New South Wales.
Budge-Whitworth Ltd., Rudge Works, Coventry, England.
“Buy ‘BRITISH’ and be proud of it.”
If any illustration in “THE BULLETIN” takes your fancy, write
to the MANAGER, who will quote you price for the original.
*7& 7 & %
w
&
@fc.
fcXty
‘Q
V
,o
ND§
*L*dK^
on
A\
/r
\\
. »<'
o
»>££-*!*»
,15 fo»«
Demand
o VERTEX
When you wear AERTEX
Shirts and Underwear you
are clothed in air. An
AERTEX garment is corm
posed of thousands of tiny
air cells which insulate the
body against outside
temperatures.
This scientific principle
of weaving keeps you cool
and prevents chill afte*
strenuous play.
Obtainable from all Hosiers, Outfitter: and TDrapers ; or in case of dijfcv ty apply to
THE CELLULAR CLOTHING CO. LIMITED
313 Flinders Lane, MELBOURNE, Victoria, Australia
•who supply Wholesale Trade only
HteMa^s'V°wf
Records
1927.
.3
March,
Selections from
March Supplement
NOW ON SALE.
In this latest supplement there is a wide range of musical
numbers that will fill the hours with gladness. They prove
conclusively the supremacy of His Master’s Voice” Records.
Ask your dealer for a copy or write us direct.
Greatest Artists—Wew Electrical Recording—Silent Surface.
Wilhelm Backhaus.
In his third new process record the great pianist gives us four
Etudes and one Prelude by Chopin. Backhaus’ all-Chopin Recitals
in Sydney and Melbourne amply demonstrated that he is a wonderful
interpreter of the emotional and dramatic music of the great com-
poser. The sweeping arpeggios of the C Major Study and the
mighty chords of the “Revolutionary” Study are reproduced with
amazing effect.
12in. Red, 10/6.
D 8928 (a) Prelude in O Major, (b) Study in C Major .. Chopin
(c) Chromatic Study in A Minor Chopin
(a) Revolutionary Study Chopin
(b) Study in F Major Chopin
Chaliapin.
The superb re-recording of one of Chaliapin’s greatest records
makes a very memorable impression, for not only his singing but
also the orchestral and choral accompaniments are most realistically
reproduced.
12in. Red, 10/6.
DB934—Boris Godounov—Farewell of Boris.
Boris Godounov —Death of Boris.
Royal Opera Orchestra.
This is the first of a series of records made by the Royal
Opera Orchestra of Covent Garden, conducted bv Eugene Goossens
The two marches need no introduction to the'public, whilst the
orchestral reproduction, which is as fine as could possibly be
achieved, offers for the first time an orchestral record of the
highest standard at a popular price.
12in. Plum, 6/-
C 1279 —Marche Hongroise Berlioz
Marche Militaire Schubert
Granforte-Hislop.
The great Italian Baritone, who made such a splendid impression
in Australia during 1924 Grand Opera. Season, sings two well-known
duets reproduced for the first time by electrical recording. He is
supported by Joseph Hislop, the eminent English tenor, who will
visit Australia this year. One of the features of this great recording
is the wonderful volume of the orchestral accompaniment.
12in. Red, 10/6.
DB939—BohSme, 0 Mimi tu piu.
Forza del Destino, “Solenne in quest’ora.”
Marion Talley,
The vocal sensation of 1926, who at the
age of eighteen made her debut at the New
York Metropolitan in February, 1926.
Although in receipt of a very modest salary,
she created such a sensation within a short
time that last January the Metropolitan
Opera voluntarily cancelled her old contract
and offered her a fee of £750 per perform-
ance.
Marion Talley’s Records:
DB936—“Barber of Seville”—Una
voce poco fa.
“Rigoletto”—Caro Nome ... ]()/g
DA7B3—Home. Sweet Home (Bishop).
Cornin’ Thro’ the Rye (Old
Scotch Air) 7/Q
m
His Masters Voice
“His Master’s Voice,” Registered
Trade-mark.
“Gramophone,” Registered Trade-mark.
Zimbalist.
This favorite violinist makes this month his debut in electrical
recording. He plays very charmingly a Persian Song by Glinka
and one of Chopin’s most melodious waltzes. This record should
be of great interest to music lovers, because the artist will make
his first tour of Australia this year.
lOin. Red, 7/6.
DA7B8 —Persian Song Glinka
Waltz in G Flat, Op. 70, No. 1 Chopin
Herbert Dawson (Organ).
Herbert Dawson’s organ records have made quite a sensation
during the last few months, and he adds another fine disc this
month, achieving a very magnificent effect in the “Hallelujah
Chorus’’ from “The Messiah” and the equally popular “Wedding
March” by Mendelssohn.
12in. Plum, 6/-
C 1271 —Hallelujah Chorus (“The Messiah”) Handel
Wedding March Mendelssohn
Symphony Orchestra.
Many Gramophone enthusiasts who have in their collection the
recently made wonderful Wagnerian Records of “Ride of the
Valkyries,” “The Funeral March,” “Prelude to Tristan” and others
will be delighted with the “Entrance of the Gods” from “Rhine-
gold,” which entirely eclipses these records.
12in. Black, 8/-
Dlll7—“The Rhinegold”—Entrance of the Gods into
A r alhalla—Parts 1 and 2 Wagner
The Gramophone Co., Ltd.
163 Pitt Street, Sydney.


T
m
Hi
If you find new
shoes uncomfortable
Try a pair of these Abbey
Shoes—made on our own
special lasts, in supple tan
willow calf.
They’re available in full and
half-sizes—each size in three
different widths, narrow,
medium and wide. Comfort
is guaranteed. Wearers find
them easy-fitting from the
first time on.
The soles are thicker than
average, with handsome,
broad welts. The uppers are
lined with kid and canvas —
doubled at the heels.
These Shoes are finished in
an attractive, rich tan which
takes on a perfect gloss all
over. (Clean them with
Abbey’s Dark Tan Polish,
lightly applied, then well
rubbed with a soft cloth.)
Order by Post
Abbey Tan Willow Calf Shoes are
32/6 per pair. Shoes of the same
design, in black box calf, are sold
also at 32/6. Specify width when
ordering.
ABBEY
Established over 80 years,
313 George St, & 224 Pitt St,
SYDNEY.
LB.
THE CHEAPEST HOUSE
IN ENGLAND FOR
OFFICE FURNITURE
(Specialising in Roll Top and
Pedestal Dehks, Filing
Cabinets, Office Chairs and
everything for the perfectly-
equipped office, at prices
which are positively the
lowest in England.
SAVE TIME!
Send your indent direct to:—
The OXFORD CABINET Co.
146 Charing Cross Road,
London, W.C. 2, England.
■for a good
/ night's rest
%/ take
ď
' it will ensure
a good day 's
In 4 sizes WOrk
oFall Chemists
and Stores
“THE WOMAN’S MIRROR,”
PRICE . 3d.
Contains everything a woman, needs to know.
Safety First —and Last
u
For every Ruptured person wear-
ing DENVER’S ELASTIC
TRUSS. Best of all for Comfort,
True Support and Long Wear.
Particulars Free in closed en-
velope. Write or call.
Prices: Single 27/6; Double 37/6.
Postage extra.
DILNYER. BROS. LTD.
Dept. 1, 281 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
đ
lUHfeUlVuiSv'-Sfti'Fi
I
Ml
si
$
m.
e
m
Smoke and enjoy the exquisite
flavor of this Cigar.
Made of superb Havana Tobacco,
with a smooth, satiny wrapper.
At all good hotels
and tobacconists.
6d.
EACH.
BOX PRICES:
10 Cigars 5/6 (posted 6/-); 25, 12A (posted
12/6); 50, 23/- (posted 23/9); 100, 45/-
(posted 46/-).
Sampler box, containing 2 Cigars, 1/- post rree.
CRAIG 8 AITKEN, 654 George Street, Sydney,
Distributors for Club Reil Cigar Factory.
If any illustration in “THE BULLETIN” takes your fancy, write
to the MANAGER, who will quote you price for the original.
J
m
m
3>g
'Z
>B
S 3
X
e Ready for-
anythinejjreshness
SOME rr.orn : ng or other every man has started in with the
uncomiortable feeling of having had “ only half a shave.”
What is it : Razor ? Perhaps. Water ? Maybe. Soap ?
Quite likely. Lather? More than often.
Wouldn’t you welcome a sure, quick, safe and better way to
shave—smooth and clean, with a feeling that you look the
part as well ? Here it is—Shavex. No rubbing, no soap, no
brush, no lather 1 Years experimenting —perfected this mar-
vellous preparation. Just smear on the wet beard —your
razor does the rest. Shavex is a skin food, too. Obtainable
everywhere.
Large Tube 1/9 Larger Size (Double Quantity) 2/6
SHAVEX
"THE MODERN WAY" NO BRUSH, NO SOAP, NO PAIN
FREE SAMPLE—A Free Sample on receipt of 3d. from
Sole Australian Agents :
SALMOND & SPRAGGON (Australia), Ltd.,
(Dept. 4 ), Eagle and Globe Buildings, 379 Kent Street, SYDNEY.
Made by Zeekol Mfg. Co., London, Eng.
IF YOUR BOY WANTS A RIFLE
d
Model 02, 35/-
Model 04, 457-
Carriage Free.
he wants one that is ACCURATE, one that is RELIABLE, and one that is SAFE TO HANDLE
The celebrated “WINCHESTER” Models 02 and 04 possess all these qualities. They shoot
either the .22 short, long, long-rifle or extra-long cartridges—four different loads-—with that
deadly accuracy for which the name “WINCHESTER” is world-famous. Their actions are so
simple and strong that there is nothing to get out of order. The bolt action closes right over
the head of the cartridge and protects the shooter from any risk of blowbacks. And these
rifles are cheap.
COWLES & DUNN, Gunmakers, 453 Kent Street, Sydney.
’Phone: M 3388. Write for Catalogue “B.”
VARIOVS VERSE
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
In manacles of Time and Space we wait,
Immured each in his lonely universe,
As shut in as a corpse within a hearse,
Coffined by callous Circumstance and Fate.
I cannot see beyond the close-barred gate;
Nor can I for a moment lift the curse
Of solitude that binds me, nor disperse
My personality inviolate.
Each soul is like an atom lone in Space,
Immutable, fixed in its fated place;
Each has its orbit set, its work to do.
Apart and alien revolve our lives;
And sex itself we wear like leaden gyves—
Not even Love can let our longings through !
N.S.W.
ARTHUR H. ADAMS.
Answered.
I prayed for your swift returning,
The day that you went away,
Clinging hard in my bitter yearning;
But you could not, would not stay.
Then the months that were long and lonely
In silence moulded my prayer—
Not that you come quickly, but only
That when you come you will care.
And now you return to-morrow,
And I —l am glad. And yet
To-day when I sought for my sorrow
I found I had learned to forget.
W.A.
ETHEL DAVIES.
Ah Foo.
Before his little shop stands old Ah Foo,
Smoothing his wrinkled hands, his yellow
face
Inscrutable; and in that noisy place
Watches the heavy traffic rolling by
Under the great bridge-arches shadowed
blue,
To where the river masts prick all the
sky.
Within the little shop of old Ah Foo
Stand canisters of tea in green and red —-
Fat ginger-jars with lovely glazes spread;
Old scarlet lacquer lids, and bits of jade,
Like pools at evening; shallow bowls of
blue,
And tall, black cabinets with pearl inlaid.
Watching the street, unmoving, stands Ah
Foo.
The flooded rice-fields stretch before his
eyes!
He hears the coolies’ chants, remembered
cries;
Secs dim, lost places .’neath his gaze un-
fold
Then fumbles for the door, and shuffles
through,
And sits and feels that he is old —so old!
VICTORIA.
MYRA MORRIS.
The Magic Glasses.
Wliist ye ! Whist ye! The fairies have run
out!
In the dew-liushed garden they are scamper-
ing about.
The yellow cat is watching—does he take
them for a mouse,
Amazed at the enchantment that has come
about our house?
Whist ye! Wliist ye! Did ye think that
was a bird —
That rustling in the branches and that swish-
ing sound ye heard?
Was that a broken feather that hangs,
tattered, from a switch ?
I am peering through my glasses; and I
know it is a -witch!
When I was born the wind was high, the
garden plots were set
With tossing beds of roses and green
swathes of mignonette ;
And I had a wooden cradle, and a wooden
spoon at mouth ;
But a genie passed the window from the
deserts to the south!
He wasn’t a rich genie, and his streaming
robes were torn,
But he tossed into my cradle his great
spectacles of horn.
So while half , the world is puzzled, and the
other half is blind,
I can always see the witches racing storm-
clouds down the wind!
Whist ye! Whist ye! The fairies have
come out!
The leprechaun is swinging in his red coat
on the spout;
And when you think you see the moon
a-glimmering through the fog
He is “heading” magic shillings with the
goblin from the bog!
You make money in the market, and you sit
at home and frown,
While I am watching witches sweeping
starry cobwebs down.
I wear a threadbare coat and shabby shoon
—you’re clad in silk,
And the Little Folk in frolic rob your cattle
of their milk!
They put a spell upon your corn, a blight
upon your meal:
But the Good Folk cannot harm me, who
have nothing left to steal!
I can chuckle while I watch them at their
pranks at night and morn
For the joy of magic glasses with their
circling rims of horn!
I can see the young moon sprouting on the
blue tree of the sky;
I can see the old moon stagger through the
purple hills to die.
You are bald with too much thinking; you
are halt with rich man’s gout;
While / run among the roses seeing fairy
folk come out!
QUEENSLAND.
M. FORREST.


9
MARK TWAIN, in his
book “Following the Equa-
tor, on Page 233, writes
regarding the GREAT
WESTERN VINEYARDS:
“It yields a choice cham-
pagne .... The champagne
is kept in a maze of pas-
sages underground, cut in
the rock, to secure it an
even temperature during
the three-year term re-
quired to perfect it.”
am
W£?k
BHMi
' ,SS ' S vi i
Hi
m
m
AV ? , fe * "
,
.
v 3
111
■
■■
■
--
■
■ v -':
BHE
«
m
1
■
**'
■
TO#
1 II


The Bulletin
Vol. 48—No. 2454.
February 24, 1927.
ii 1
PLEASE TO MEECHA DOOK RDookESS.
WHAT ABOUT COMINQ HOME FOR ABIT6 TO E AT. T
U ’r—i"
- Just a minute whu_e \ ring, up U
The Missus To tell. her 7oure Conhc,
A.H Introduction Tc
£>U JURIES TT?/kVBUUMQ
On the way a few purchases HAYe "fo &e maoe j
«• H
Tlhis is Mun^DooK
After Dinner .
■The-7 miss the last tr*.»J
And arc HosPiiAßuy pUT up for the Hic»nt ;
MAKING THEM PEEL AT HOME.
"A correspondent to a Sydney paper suggests that the Duke and Duchess would enjoy tar better than the round of official engagements an opportunity to enter the
homes of average Australians and learn their ways.”


The Bulletin
THE NATIONAL AUSTRALIAN NEWSPAPER
“Australia for the White Man.”
Printed and published by William Macleod, of
Musgrave and McLeod Streets, Mosman, for The
Bulletin Newspaper Co., Ltd., at the Office of the
Co., 214 George Street, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia.
Melbourne Office: 154-162 Flinders Street.
London Office: No. 1 Wardour Street (near Picca-
dilly Circus), W.l.
PUBLISHED ONCE A WEEK.
TERMS TO SUBSCRIBERS
(In Advance only).
Posted to any address in Australasia, weekly:
12 months, £1 45.; 6 months, 12s. 6d.; 3 months, 7s.
To any address Overseas: 12 months, £1 10s.; 6
months, 15s. (id.; 3 months, Bs.
Cheques, drafts, etc., wliich should he crossed, and
all Business Communications to be addressed to the
Manager.
Special Notice.
All correspondence to be addressed to Box 2521 8.8.,
G.P.0., Sydney. ......
Insufficiently stamped letters are liable to be
refused.
The contents of this paper are copyright by the
publishers. The right to reproduce or translate any
part of the contents of this number is hereby expressly
reserved by the publishers.
The Editor will carefully read and, where practic-
able, acknowledge in the “Correspondence” column
all contributions submitted, whether in the form of
Political, Social or other Articles, Verse, Short I'ales
or Sketches (those dealing with Australian subjects
and not exceeding two columns in length, or, say,
3000 words, are specially acceptable), Paragraphs,
Letters or Newspaper Clippings. All communications
will be regarded as strictly confidential.
Tiie Bulletin will return all unsuitable MS. when
the address is specified and stamps are enclosed. But
no MS. will be returned or preserved unless these
conditions are observed. When MS. is forwarded
without stamps for return it will be understood that
the copy is to be destroyed if not acceptable. Per-
sonal applications for return of MS. cannot receive
attention. Further, The Bulletin desires those
sending MS. to distinctly understand that it is not
responsible for the preservation or transmission of MS.
To Amateurs in Black and White.
Anyone supplying to The Bulletin original
humorous or other topical drawings in line or wash,
of sufficient merit and interest and adapted for
direct reproduction, or any interesting photograph
illustrative of a current event will be paid for same
on acceptance. Any picture containing a good idea
but unfitted for direct reproduction —i.e., any picture
which has to be re-drawn —will be paid for as a
suggestion only. The conditions under which such
artistic contributions will be received are those
applying to M.S.
To Travellers Abroad.
“The Bulletin’s” representative in is
L,. St. C. Grondona. No. 1 Wardour Street
(near Piccadilly Circus). W.l. Copies of
“Tlie Bulletin” can he obtained from him or
the_J>oolcstaHinthelVlain]HaH < at_AustraUa
Also from Messrs. Gordon and Gotch, 75-
79 Farringdon Street, London, E.C.4.; and IF. Daw-
son and Sons, Cannon House, Breams Buildings,
London, E.C.4. ; E. T. Hole, Holerth Satire Ser-
vice, 46 Fleet Street, London E.C.; “The British
Australian and New Zealander ” 414-17 Australia
House, Strand, London, W.C.2; F. Algar, 58 Grace-
church Street, London, E.C.3.
South Africa. —The Central News Agency, Cape-
town, Durban and Johannesburg; Dawson and Son,
Capetown and Johannesburg ; Havana House, Durban;
Rhodesia News Agency, Salisbury; Benoni News
Agency, Benoni; Handel House, Kimberley; and
others.
Canada. — G. S. Forsyth and Co., 441 Hastings
Street, Vancouver, B.C.
U.S.A. — Chicago: J. Roland Kay Co., 161 East
Erie Street, N. Michigan Boulevarde; Post Office
News Co., 33 West Monroe Street, Chicago. New
York: Brentano’s, sth Avenue and 27th Street, New
York City; Schultz News Agency, S.E. Corner 6th
Avenue and 42nd Street, New York City; Hotaling’s
Neivs Agency, 203 West 41st Street, New York City.
Washington: Liberty News Co., Seattle, Washington ;
Wheatley News Co., 7 04 Market Street, San Francisco;
Wallace, The New Orleans News Man, 105 Royal
Street, New Orleans, La. ; The Wide World News Stand,
5414 South Main Street, Los Angeles, Cal.
Egypt. — Jacques. Horn and Co., the Colonial
Book and News Stores , Port Said, Egypt.
Hong Ivong. —Brewer and Co., 696' Pedder Streep
Hong Kong.
China. —Brewer and Co., 31 Nanking Road.
Shanghai, China.
Ceylon. — T. L. De Silva, 39 Chatham Street,
Colombo.
Papua. —Whitten Bros., Samarai and Port Moresby.
Fiji. — A. Barker, Suva; Harry Gardiner, Metropole
Hairdressing Saloon. Suva.
Overseas Advertising Representatives.
London. — L. St. C. Grondona, No. 1 Wardour
Street (near Piccadilly Circus), W. 1.; Gordon and
Gotch, 75-79 Farringdon Street, London, E.C.4.
U.S.A. — -J. Roland Kay Co., 161 East Erie Street,
N. Michigan Boulevarde, Chicago.
Postage Rates.
Single copies of The Bulletin (registered as a
newspaper) : — Commonwealth, New Zealand and Fiji:
10oz., Id. United Kingdom: 4oz. to 10oz., lid.; each
additional 4 0Z -< Id. All Sea Route: 160 z., lid.
British Possessions and U.S.A.: 4oz. or part thereof,
Id. Elsewhere. 20z., Id.
ffuTfyxiLlelzoi.
THURSDAY, FEBRUARY 24, 1927.
FRILLED AND FANCY FINANCE.
Edward G. Theodore, of Queensland, who
is in Sydney trying to put salt on the tail of
the “safe” seat which his own State failed
to produce, has propounded at length and
for the second time his wonderful scheme
for the easy extinction of the State debts. It
probably had its origin in “The Hunting of
the Snark,” or some similar volume filled
with pleasing unrealities. From 1915 to
1924 Theodore was first Treasurer and then
Premier of a Government which went on its
plain and simple way, borrowing, piling up
taxes, raising pastoral rents by breach of
faith, and seeing the Federal Treasurer
about aids of one sort or another. As an
education in the handling of huge and intri-
cate financial problems that sort of career
was much on a' par with cashiering in a uni-
versal providery or keeping books for a
bookmaker, and Theodore shows sign of no
other training. This is the plan at the
second time of presentation:—
Let the Commonwealth take control of all the
States’ external debts, and henceforward become the
sole borrower for Australia overseas. The aggregate
States’ debt held abroad is about £350,000,000.
The Commonwealth could afford to establish an
effective sinking fund on that debt, which would cost,
saj', £3,500,000 a year.... The Commonwealth
could not use its surplus funds to better advantage.
.... The States would continue, of course, to meet
the annual interest bill on the debts taken over by
the Commonwealth, but there would be a distinct
saving in interest charge as a consequence of the
more favorable conversions which could be effected
under Federal control. Moreover an arbitrary limita-
tion of overseas borrowing would be possible under
such a scheme if the situation at any time demands
such limitation. Under the plan I have outlined the
entire external debts of the States which exist at
present could be extinguished within 35 years.
It is all so beautifully simple that a blind
man could see it without even lighting a
match to look for his spectacles.
* * * #
It is quite true that a sovereign per annum,
invested at 5 per cent., if that high interest
rate can be secured all the time, which is
not quite certain, will wipe out a debt of
£lOO in about 37 years (not 35), so Theo-
dore’s calculation about £3,500,000 sinking
fund and £350,000,000 debt is near enough—
provided the sovereign is there. But it isn’t
there. And Theodore’s “scheme” is of no
more value for providing the essential coin
than a Communist’s open-air oration on a
pleasant Sunday afternoon. All the papery
amateurish projects for making Australia
solvent without hard effort strike against
the same floating mine. These are some of
the more obvious difficulties: —
The Commonwealth Government has no reliable
surplus of £8,500,000 01 £3500 or any other sum
per annum in <jold with which to begin an attack on
the States’ external debt of £350,000,000 or any
other amount, payable, principal and interest, in
real coin. Nor does it possess wool or wheat or
butter of its own, worth £3,500,000 a year or any
other important amount, which it can send abroad
and turn into the necessary funds.
It couldn’t raise the necessary amount in the
right kind of money by putting on new taxes. They
would be paid in paper, like the old taxes.
The Commonwealth has an interest bill of its
own, payable abroad in gold, amounting to over
£8,000,000 a year, quite apart from its Australian
interest bill (that, of course, can be met with a
cheque which the bank will turn into notes on
demand). Even if the Federal authority owned all
the gold output of the country (and as it isn’t the
owner of a single goldmine it owns none of it) the
whole lot (about £2,000,000 in the last 12 months)
wouldn’t meet more than a quarter of its own
liability.
The great Theodore fairy tale rests, among other
things, on the assurance that, during the 35 or a
good many more years in which the Commonwealth
sinking fund is to accumulate till the existing debts
are paid off, “the States will continue, of course, to
meet the annual interest bill,” and so on. “Con-
tinue” evidently means that they will go on doing
so as at present, and that alone damns the theory
irrevocably. During the last few disastrous years,
when freak politicians have freaked even worse than
usual, it has become the regular thing to pay interest
on old external loans, and contributions to old exter-
nal sinking funds and some other items, out of
new external loans. Formerly it was the partial or
occasional thing, but of late it has become quite
regular. And the supreme disaster of the situation,
which the Theodores and their kith and kin com-
pletely fail to understand, is that unless the com-
mercial situation radically alters, or is radically
altered, there is no other way of paying, though
there are ways of defaulting.
* * * *
Circumstances are possible in which there
would be no difficulty in turning our paper-
money, which now has a purely local value,
into all the gold required to meet external
obligations, but they ..re not the kind of
circumstances that preachers of the light and
airy life would care to mention, even if they
possessed the understanding. Supposing ex-
ports exceeded imports by something approach-
ing £30,000,000 per annum (that is the lia-
bility now), there would be money at Austra-
lia’s credit in external banks, for no one would
hump the bullion out here at great cost and
to no purpose. Then a Lang or a Theodore
might plant the State’s cheque for five mil-
lions, plus the customary exchange, on a
bank counter, and demand a five-million
draft payable in gold at the other side, and
provided the State had the necessary amount
of paper to its credit the reply would be
“Yep,” or words to that effect, and the docu-
ment would be forthcoming. But imports
have taken to exceeding exports in a ridicu-
lous fashion, and there is no credit-balance
in London with which to meet interest bills
and some other bills, and if Lang or Theo-
dore tried the cheque trick his reward would
be the astonished eye and the advice to float
a new British loan, and find sovereigns that
way. Or he might be offered notes and
'advised to take them personally to London
and sell them by the pound. The British
trade balance looks quite as adverse as the
Australian one, but Britain has an immense
foreign income from investments abroad and
from the earnings of its shipping in foreign
seas, and it can pay for its surplus pur-
chases without frantic loan-mongering in out-
side money markets, which makes all the
difference. There are methods, including
more work and severe restriction on the
influx of alien luxuries, by which the tangle
might be straightened out. But there is no
hope in frilled and fancy devices put together
by politicians who advocate the taking of
another four hours off the working week.
HOW THE LANG GOVERNMENT
STARVES THE CHILDREN.
“A great deal had been said lately about the
expenditure on schools. He had no hesitation in
disclosing to the public what the position was. Out
of £11,000,000 loan money, his department got a
miserable £156,000. It would not see him through
the financial year. Last year £650,000 was allo-
cated from loan money. That amount was passed
when half the financial year was gone, and because
the department was not able to expend 12 months’
money in six months he was told: ‘You can carry on
with what you have left. You have £400,000 to
spend.’ It was rubbish. That amount was all com-
mitted. So was the £156.000. It would all be
spent in March. If he did not get more money,
building would have to be stopped.” —Education
Minister Mutch., of A.,S'. IF.
The above is a sample of the long-winded
tale of Minister Mutch about the intellec-
tual starvation of the children of N.S.W. by
himself and by his colleagues and by
his squalid party in general. ,A fairly
copious literature is growing up on the
subject of the Ma State’s alleged educational
degeneracy—its insufficient schools, its over-
crowded , schools, its insanitary and out-of-
repair schools, and in places its total lack of
schools. On this matter the latest statistics
supply some facts which may be condensed
tllUS Teachers
and Scholars
Schools. Teachers. Scholars. per School.
1921.. 3216 9,594 315,228 163
1924.. 3259 10,400 333,074 100
1925.. 3216 10,777 336,810 108
The Lang-Mutcii Government took office
before the middle of 1925, and by the end of
1925 there were 43 fewer schools than at the
end of 1924. They were back at the figure ot
1921. This may be explained as the Lang-
Mutcii Government pleases, but it doesn t
look like progress.
* * * *
The narrative of Mutch is in a general
way that of Lang-Mutcii finance m all its
aspects. Revenue was ten millions more in
1925-26 than in 1919-20, yet it is .appa-
rently impossible now, in the Mutch view ot
things, to build new schools and repair or
replace old ones except out of loans. Last
year was the record year for loans bar one,
that being the one when Lang and Mutcii
were last in office. The present gives promise
of being the record loan year bar none, yet
Mutch says that his wretched Government
has cut down the allowance, for liis indispens-
able department to starvation point. It is a
rotten prospect in any case if the supply ot
the essentials of education is to depend on the
chances of the loan market, for that market
may give out, and then education may gradu-
ally leave off. The present situation, like
many other bad situations, is to a great ex-
tent of recent development. The system
was old and bad, and it naturally became
older and worse, and after braggart reformers
took hold it became worst. In the first year
of Dooley, Lang and Mutch the expendi-
ture on teaching accommodation was only
£183,975, and in their second year £237,977.
For a period of five years the Statistician
distinguishes between school construction
out of the State’s own money and the same
out of other people’s money, cadged at heavy
interest, the two ends of the rake’s progress
comparing as follows :
N.S.W. School Construction Expenditure.
From From Public
Loans. Works Fund. Total.
1920-21 Nil £183,975 £183,975
1924-25 . . £512,785 59,078 571,863
The year 1920-21 was the State’s record
period for loan expenditure, and the Gov-
ernment of Dooley, Lang and Mutch got
through £14,701,028. This was £6,000,000
more than the previous year’s loan expendi-
ture, but the windy talkers spared none of
it for school construction. And the gaseous com-
bination spared mighty little out of revenue
for the same good purpose, though revenue
was also a record up to then, amounting to
£34,031,398, an advance of about 54 millions
on the figure for the preceding year. The
achievement of that first year of the new
Labor party in office was that, by hard taxing
and hard borrowing, it contrived to have
£11,287.023 more to spend, and it kept down
the outlay on those new schools, for which
there is said to be such an urgent and long-
standing need, to £183,975.
• * * *
The loan vote for building purposes having
got clown to an average for two years of
£403,000 a year, Minister Mutch sees. a
crisis approaching, and his grumpy chief
begins to hint that it may arrive sooner than
Mutch expects, unless Mutcii ceases from
comment. Certainly, if loan expenditure
and revenue (Public Works Fund) payments
are added up a lot has gone out for new
structures (£1,945,873 between 1920 and
1925), but there is insufficient to show fqr
it. The difficulty with all public works in
N. S. Wales is that the first object in view
is to make them a means of preserving the
goodwill of a body of friendly voters, and
the second or third or tenth is to get the
work done. If a very minor job, such as
74 miles of new railway, can be stretched
out to cover two elections it is so much to
the good. This helps to explain why the
Lang Ministry, with a series of record
revenues and record loans, is busy mak-
ing its third and record deficit, and
why Minister Mutch’s department, which
is to a great extent non-party and
only a moderate vote-catcher, is under a
cloud. If Mutcii really wants to get down
to honest endeavor he is in very unsuitable
company.
BLACK SUNDAY AND THE SEQUEL.
My own investigations fully confirm The
Bulletin’s remarks (17/2/’27) that “the
dice are just as heavily loaded against the
settler in the Vic. bush-fire area this year
as they were at the same time last year.”
Near the anniversary of Black Sunday, when
39 men, women and children were burnt to
death in the ranges adjacent to Melbourne, I
bought a railway ticket to the nearest out-
break. Taking a train to a bush-fire seems
rather like taking a ’bus ride to a battle, but
let that pass.
Ten miles out I exchanged the train for
a motor, and, selecting the biggest pall of
smoke —there were at least five—-I speeded
towards it. Most of the conflagrations had
been smouldering for days without rousing
aught but a languid interest in the city.
Each district had been keeping a more or
less watchful eye upon its particular demon
of destruction, praying that no high wind
would spring up, or if it did that it would blow
the terror into somebody else’s department.
Outside one little township, half a farming
community and half a tourist resort, a dozen
smoke-blackened toilers were burning a fire-
break. Some of them hadn’t seen their bush
homes or felt a bed under them for 48 hours,
there being no arrangement about reliefs.
The break they were burning, according to
an expert by whom I was accompanied,
was quite inadequate, though it might save
the property of the landowner who was
directing operations.
We proceeded on our way, passing two
cliars-a-bancs full of city policemen who
knew more about fighting pushes than fires,
and who seemed to have lost their way. We
also passed several cars packed with excur-
sionists who had their coats off and were
eager to assist in putting out the flames, if
they could only find them. We even over-
took an automobile with a vice-regal crest
upon it. At one spot we came upon a
workmanlike band with someone in com-
mand. They .were a trained volunteer fire
brigade from a suburb 15 miles away and
were busy saviug a threatened block of
dwellings. We also met a local top or two
who knew their district and seemed to know
what needed to be done, if they could get any-
body to listen to directions.
After 2 p.m., it being Saturday, the usual
stream of city excursionists came tearing
to the scene, until every road was chock-a-
block with traffic. Although many came
merely to look on and photograph the tire-
fighters, others were prepared to lend a hand.
In face of such an onslaught, few fires, one
would imagine, would have a Buckley’s
chance, but the fact remains that this par-
ticular conflagration went raging on its way,
causing ruin and destruction for 20 or 30
miles. The fire-figliter that eventually put it
under cover was a providential shift:of wind;
and even the shift of wind only meant an-
other area of the State’s dwindling forest,
in which city and country are equally inter-
ested, being reduced to ashes.
The lack of proper official organisation
was patent even to a novice from the city.
How it impressed itself on the mind of a
bush-dweller who happens to bo an old Bul-
letin contributor may be usefully recorded.
Every town in V ictoria, this witness pointed
out, lias its own brigade, organised under
the Country Fire Brigade Board for coun-
try districts, or under the Metropolitan Fire
Board for Melbourne and suburbs; but when
a busli-fire starts there is no organisation to
fight the flames, and no proper equipment.
The volunteers generally have to waste valu-
able minutes securing limbs of bushes for
their weapons. If there are no trees or scrub
handy they have to rely on wet bags or
sacks, and these, if obtainable, soon become
useless unless there is water handy. Even
green boughs soon get worn out, and time is
lost looking for more.
In districts subject to bush-fires brigades
could and should be organised for this work
under officials responsible to the Country Fire
Board. A plentiful supply of leather or
basil fire-bcaters should be provided at
every township, and one or two water-carts
with force-pumps attached to them should
be in every village. These carts would be
found of real value in extinguishing burning
trees and fences, and in safeguarding the
work of burning fire-breaks. And. of course,
the officials of a bush brigade should need
no permission to go upon any property when
necessary.
“I once helped to fight a bush-fire
in a northern district,” said the old
Bulletin contributor. “There was no
hope of beating it out by a frontal
attack, so about 200 of us proposed to start
a counter fire in a cocky’s paddock where
two wide roads met at right angles. The
cocky, however, flatly refused to allow us
to burn his grass, so wc went away and
attacked the fire at another point, with little
effect. When we returned to where the two
roads met We found the fire had swept across
the obstinate cocky’s paddock, jumped the two
roads, and then licked up about 300 bags
of stripped wheat and about 80 acres of
good crop belonging to the same farmer.
Had we been allowed to burn a break
in the first paddock all the subsequent
damage would have been saved and the fire
got under. As it was, it raged for several
days, and swept over a strip of coun-
try nearly 30 miles square. Organised
fire-fighters should be allowed to go any-
where to tackle outbreaks to the best advan-
tage, in the same way as a city brigade is
empowered to tear down any building or
buildings to check a blaze.”
Black Sunday was a fearful lesson, but how
little Victoria learned from it was dismally
shown in the second week of February, 1037.
C.Q.
PLAIN ENGLISH.
The Shindy About the Subsidy.
S. M. Bruce, the more pliable partner in
the Federal firm of Bruce and Page, having
returned, it has been decided to ask the
opinions of the State Premiers about the
proposed withdrawal of the Federal allow-
ance —255. per inhabitant per annum. The
question to be put is, in effect, whether the
Commonwealth is offering to , surrender
enough taxation to make up for fhe subsidy
it proposes to take away. A unanimous and
negative yell may be relied upon. The S.
Australian Government, for one, has its
reply ready. It runs, though not exactly
in these words, that S.A. views the alleged
necessity for the severance of Federal and
State finance as a freak and a superstition,
and that it wants more subsidy rather than
less. There is a great deal to be said m
favor of keeping the Federal and State
accounts mixed, and in favor of mixing them
more than they are, and even cultivating
entanglement as a fine art. For instance:—
While the Commonwealth borrows on behalf of the
States or lends them money separation is impossible,
except in the foolish sense that the Commonwealth can
make the States so independent of it that it will have
no security for its money. Why attempt the
impossible ?
An alternative offer, which the Commonwealth
might make, is that the States should go entirely out
of the income-tax collecting. business, and receive in
return a very liberal increase of subsidy. The P ro '
vision would remain that the Central Authority
might, in addition, give assistance to necessitous
members of the family, but this should be done
strictly on its own conditions.
If a State defaulted, in whole or in part, the
arrears of interest could be deducted from its subsidy.
supposing such a' proceeding seemed advisable. It a
State departed from the agreement and resumed the
collection ■of income-tax, the amount of its dishone-
gains could also be deducted from its subsidy. Tb;
should have a salutary effect.
The Commonwealth having power to withdraw t <
present subsidy at any time, the position of aW
State which insisted on playing the lonesome >a r -"
and refused the Commonwealth’s liberal offer, wou
be not only invidious, but precarious in the extreme.
This method would simplify taxation qpit®*
much as anything the Bruce-Page Ministr.
has proposed, and probably a good deal mo 1 '•
And it would strengthen the Federal posino ■
whereas by the Ministerial scheme w
Federal position would be weakened,
can’t stand being weakened, as it is a '
poor position, and almost untenable fi'° m
military point of view.


Puss and Meddling.
T neke are features about the aggregate
iudustrial problem whieh present a tangled
•innearance to the common or gaicten inves
S For instance, a forest of Boards
exists and is kept busy adjusting wages.
Taking N.S.W. as a handy example, only in
one year of the last dozen or more have the
labors of the Boards failed to
rlfuRin a substantial rise to « o «ubrtantia
number of people. Between 19lo and 1921
the number of workers whose wages were
raised was over 1,750,000, and the increases
SS Sm 2 S llid. ti 9s. 10d. and 10s.. psr
week. The figures show that the same indi-
vidual was a successful applicant more than
once. In fact, every unionist in the State
is accounted for six times over. There were
increases in 1923, 1924, 1925, and as much
of 1926 as the figures cover. These were
awards of local application, but m _ addition
there were a number or increases
common to all States, in which N.S.W.
shared as a matter of course. If the results
were not up to expectation the probable rea-
son is that all-round increase of wages, where
there is no great margin of profit to begin
with, puts up prices and the cost of living
to correspond, and things are where they
started. If all-round higher wages are treated
as a justification for less work and less out-
put the rise in the cost of living is greater
than that in wages. Improvements in
machinery, which are large and continuous,
make the'lot of the toiler more easy, but that
is another story.
N.S.W., like Queensland, has also a Pair
Rents Court, which is an apparatus for
dragging down the worker’s rent, just as the
Arbitration Court is for hoisting his remu-
neration. The Fair Rents Court is a growing
concern. In 1926 it dealt with more cases
than in any previous year and made the most
sweeping reductions, cutting down rentals by
an average of £17 2s. per cent. This was
done because, in most eases, the premises
were becoming old and worn, and when no
sane individual who knows the law of the
F. R. Court builds small new homes for
rental purposes the existing premises natu-
rally grow old. Despite all this crude and
ignorant endeavor everything is upside down.
The landlord gets so little that he has no
inducement to continue supplying houses.
The ostensible tenant lives, in many cases,
rent free; and sometimes even makes a divi-
dend out of the premises. At the same time
a squalid, unwholesome, overcrowded and
often rack-rented race of sub-tenants has
arisen and multiplied. These people hire
rooms from the ostensible tenant and the
Fair Rents law gives them no protection.
They are such a shifty and indefinite class
that, being a fool of a law, it doesn’t know
how.
There has been an immensity of clumsy
effort, and N.S.W. is further from being
self-supporting, and more dependent on loans
and importations, and more troubled by strike
bosses w T ho want to deliver the “wage slave”
from his fetters, than it was before all the
effort happened.
4
Music for the Multitude.
“F.S.”: James Dyer has promised £10,000
towards the establishment of a permanent
orchestra in Melbourne. It is a noble sum
for one man to give, but a great deal more
will be required. An adequate symphony
orchestra would cost £25,000 p.a. There
would have to be about 60 performers, unless
they consented to work extra instruments
with their toes in the manner of the versatile
gentlemen in the right-hand corner of the
jazz orchestras. There are too many jobs
going in cinema theatres and “palays” for a
competent musician to accept less than £8 a
week, and conductors these days look twice
at a salary of a couple of thousands. Whether
a nation which docilely accepts its drama
rolled up in coils and its music potted,
canned, disced and delivered at the door with
the groceries is prepared to grant the
amount that would be required to provide
£25.000 a year remains a moot question.
Delightful organ recitals are provided free
in the Sydney Town Hall twice a week. To
slip in there out of the uproar of George-
street is like taking one’s business cares off
and slipping into a refreshing pool. Yet
slippers can be counted usually on the fingers
and toes, and most of them look anything
but subsidisers. And N. S. Wales had a
State orchestra which gave about the cheap-
est concerts in the world, considering the
class of music provided, but a democratic
Government decided that the money it cost
could be expended to better purpose in pro-
viding dirt-jobs for Bill and Dick, so the
State orchestra was disbanded. And muni-
cipalities are as “utilitarian” in these mat-
ters as State Governments. The view on
art of the average councillor was succinctly
revealed by that mayor of Manly who
remarked that the Spit bridge would have
justified its existence had it been ten times
as ugly. Capital-city symphonic orchestras
don’t justify their existence in that sense.
Nor is there much advertisement to be
gained from them. The music-loving public
is crassly intolerant of speeches at its enter-
tainments, and, anyhow, speeches on musical
subjects are not in the regular curriculum
of bumbledom. A large deputation of musi-
cal societies waited on Melbourne’s mayor
the other day to discuss the Dyer proposal.
One suggestion advanced was that a rate
should be struck on citizens to pay for the
annual upkeep. This scarcely sounds a
device that is likely to be long successful in
a democratic country. The music rate would
be the first to go when there was economy
in the air. Some people are quite deaf to
music through no fault of their own ; they
could listen to the best till they were black
in the face without learning to like it. A
symposium of litterateurs, including the
great Conrad, showed that the faculty isn’t
universal even amongst the intelligentsia.
The musically hard of hearing might ask
why they should be called upon to pay for
tlieir fellow-men’s amusement. The Lady
Northcote fund should be flung into the
pool, and when it has attained large enough
dimensions the 30-odd municipalities of Mel-
bourne might possibly be stampeded or ter-
rorised into giving straight-out donations,
not yearly grants subject to regrets and revi-
sion. But if Dyer’s dream is to be realised
other music-loving Melburnians who have
made money will have to feel in their
pockets.
“Crowner’s ’Quest.”
“But is this law?” “Ay, marry, ’tis; crowner’s
’quest law.”
A Case in which a coroner blundered has
attracted some attention in Sydney. A child
of five years had been fatally injured by
a motor-van. Whether the van had been so
negligently driven as to cause the child’s
death was a matter of evidence at the in-
quest, and the coroner considered such evi-
dence to be sufficiently strong to warrant his
committing the driver for trial on a charge
of manslaughter. Having done so, he
reflected on his action, and, sending for the
vanman, admitted that he had erred. The
vanman was thereupon discharged. The
fatal error was that the coroner had failed
to view the body. In accordance with what
was stated to be “the usual practice” where
there was no apparent suspicion that any
living person was to blame, permission had
been given to the parents to bury the child,
and the usual certificate issued.
“Crowner’s ’quest” law is very ancient;
it can be traced back to the days
of King Atiielstan. The coroner, accord-
ing to Blackstone, received his official title
from the fact that he had principally to do
with pleas of the Crown. It is not a cheer-
ful occupation, and it certainly would not
have suited Mr. Mantalini, for it involves
the viewing of many “demnition moist, un-
pleasant bodies.” The modern coroner does
not cultivate a morbid interest in this direc-
tion ; he takes a view only in such cases as
he reasonably believes will involve an inquest.
In other days coroners were much more
inquisitorial. It was Box’d Eixenborotjgh,
C.J., who called attention to the fact that
“there are many instances of coi-oners hav-
ing exei'cised their office in the most vexa-
tious and oppressive manner by obtruding
themselves into private families, to their
great annoyance and discomfort, without any
pretence of the deceased having died other-
wise than a natural death, which is highly
illegal.” The coroners of those days were
paid by fee; hence the indecent zeal thus
reprimanded. Nowadays the tendency is
wholly in the other direction. The coroner
and the police—upon whose reported in-
quiries he must largely rely in the exercise
of his discretion —avoid whenever possible
intruding without adequate cause upon the
privacy of families grieving over their dead
and preparing for their burial. Nothing
can justify official interference at such a
time except a reasonable suspicion that
death has been due to causes other than
ordinary illness. There are certain clearly-
defined cases in which an inquest should be
held. These are cases of violent and un-
natural death, casualties by which death
ensues, sudden deaths from not clearly-defined
natural causes, and deaths in gaols, by hang-
ing or otherwise. In many of these cases, such
as the happening which gave rise to the coro-
ner’s error in Sydney, the circumstances may
appear to be such as will render an inquest
a mere legal formality. Still, there is an
obvious risk in giving the body into the
charge of relatives for burial without the view
being taken that the law requires. Such a
course is tantamount to deciding an issue
upon inquii’ies and reports before such issue
is brought into court for determination. It
assumes that a finding of death by accident
will assuredly be returned.
An inquest can be taken by a coroner
super visum corporis, that is on a view of
the body, only. Therefore, a coroner who has
neglected to view the body finds himself on
the horns of a dilemma if the evidence dis-
closes facts which warrant a commitment.
He cannot commit, as he has not complied
with the law, so he has to discharge a man
who he believes ought to be committed. This
does not necessarily mean that there are
no means of bringing an offender, if he be
such, to trial in another way, but it does
mean that the coroner’s court has failed to
function. The only safe course to take is
to make it a fixed rule that in all cases of
death by casualty the old practice should be
followed. The view of the body has sound
reason behind it. Its object is that the
coroner and jury—where a jury has been
called for —should see any external marks,
stains, appearance of blood and so on which
may assist them to an intelligent under-
standing of the evidence to be placed before
them. Everyone will appreciate the . sym-
pathy which prompts coroner and police in
saving the feelings of parents and relatives
mourning the loss of a beloved life, but
departure from the letter of the law is
fraught with danger. And in this case the
law is backed by centuries of experience.
*
Railways in the North.
Dear Bulletin, —A friendly reference (B.
27/l/'27) to my association with the trans-
fer of the Northern Territory to the (Com-
monwealth has prompted me to jot down a
few notes which, as I hope, will make my
attitude clear. There was no hostility on
my part to railway connection with Queens-
land ; on that phase of the subject I had
friendly discussions with leaders in that
State, particularly at Bi’isbane in 1908. The
transfer of the Territory took place on
January 1, 1911. In 1913 the Federal Par-
liament, at my instance, passed the Pine
Creek-Katlierine River Railway Act, provid-
ing for the construction of about 52 miles
in the north of the N.T. In “Northern
Territory Outlines of Policy,” published
June, 1914, I wrote as follows:
Communication in a country of great distances
being essential, proposals will be submitted for the
construction of railways to connect Oodnadatta and
the Katherine River through the MacDormell Ranges ;
to connect Newcastle Waters, or some other point on
the Transcontinental railway, with the Queensland
border at Camooweal or elsewhere, when the great
western railways system of Queensland is in course
of construction to such place; and, as probably a
later project, to link Anthony’s Lagoon, on the
branch line to Queensland, with the Pellew Islands
at the mouth of the McArthur River. The lengths
of line would be: Oodnadatta to the Katherine, 1026
miles; Newcastle Waters to Camooweal, 360 miles;
Anthony’s Lagoon to Pellew Islands, 230 miles; total,
1616 miles. The cost, with water, roads, etc., would
probably amount to £10,000,000.
Another paragraph relative to railway con-
nection with Queensland may be quoted:—
The branch line by Anthony’s Lagoon, a convenient
centre, to Queensland will be begun from Newcastle
Waters, or some other point on the Transcontinental
railway, when the lines of Queensland to connect
with the border at Camooweal or elsewhere are suffi-
ciently advanced. Negotiations with a view to con-
nection with the Queensland system are now proceed-
ing with the Government of that State. At present
Queensland has three main lines running westward
from parts of the eastern coast, which that State
proposes to extend in a westerly direction from four
different points.
I never deviated from this policy, but the
war came, and everything else had to wait,
—Yours, etc., P. McM. Glynn.
♦
Repudiation, or What?
At a Labor picnic on Saturday, Theodora,
the great spiked gun from Queensland, dis-
coursed at length and with a fog of words on
Australian finance as it is to be run if a
Theodore Government comes into office :
We find ourselves cramped by the money power
whenever we attempt any forward movement involv-
ing radical reform. Coercion by the money mer-
chants is the root cause of sterility in Government
action. When Labor accedes to office in the Federal
arena it must give attention to this paramount prob-
lem. It must attempt a national control of credit.
It must free the country from the domination of
the private vendors of money, those who use the
people’s savings and the credit resources of the
nation for private gain, and wield enormous political
power because they are able to dictate the monetary
policy of the Commonwealth.
It is all very hazy and large, but a wealth of
detail should be filled in before anybody
trusts Theodore with a Prime Ministership
or even Bill Maiiony's seat. There is even
more need for complete plans and specifica-
tions in the promising of a perfectly new
and unheard-of national policy than in the
promising of a perfectly new species, of town
hall —say, one that will cost nothing, and
have its foundations on top and its roof in
the cellar. The root of the problem is
the fact that Australia owes roughly
£i .(KX).OOO.OOO, about half of this to persons
abroad. There are two imaginable ways by
which it might get wholly free from the
“coercion” or “control” or “dictation” or
whatever it may be called that a creditor
exercises over a debtor, especially a debtor
who comes round twice or thrice a year ask-
ing for more money. One is by paying off the
liability, but even if a financier who is as
unlike Theodore as holy water is unlike the
Devil took the matter in hand it wouldn’t be
accomplished just “when Labor accedes to
office,” nor in the lifetime of 20 Ministries,
Labor and otherwise. Theodore pre-
sents no resemblance to a paying politician,
and he wants to raise more money, rather
than to part with any that has been raised.
Even when he announced his idea of paying
off the States’ gold debts by accumulating
a paper-money sinking fund for 35 years lie
assumed that the States would keep incurring
new gold debts during these year, under
Federal guidance. The other method is blank
repudiation after the Russian fashion, always
assuming that repudiation would be allowed.
As a nation of six millions, ill-armed and
mostly living on the coast, isn’t in the same
position as a well-armed community of 120
millions in an almost inaccessible land, it
may be assumed that repudiation wouldn’t be
allowed. Anyhow, the breakage of savings
banks and other institutions which would
follow any attempt at it would create a heap
of ill-feeling. If there is any way to get rid
of the public creditor and to end “the domina-
tion of the private vendors of money” save
by paying said creditor or by public default
no Treasurer has yet discovered it, and the
world has many better Treasurers than
Theodore was. Hazy observations about the
“national control” of credit or even of rab-
bits mean nothing, though it would be a
comfort if the man from Queensland would
attempt to show that it means something.
The most obvious aspect of the case is that
he wants a lot more money to spend. Mean-
while the strikers of Brisbane have sent an
urgent message bidding Sydney Laborites not
to vote for Theodore, which is a cruel attack
from behind.
-
Maoriland’s Tariff.
Before Coates went away to take his right-
ful place as an Empire statesman, he made
some vague remarks about a pending tariff
revision. The Maoriland customs tariff is
one of the political paradoxes of the world.
Any Foreign-trader who likes to spend half
an hour among the blue-books can prove
without fear of contradiction that per capita
Maoriland citizens cough up more in
customs duties than the folk of any other
country in the world. Nevertheless the tariff
isn’t designed as an engine of Protection.
The farmers and the drapers have seen to
that. The drapers the other day, in confer-
ence assembled, laid it down that Parliament
ought to reduce the customs duties, since
such duties “operate at the expense of the
majority of the public.” The farmers have
said something similar in their conferences,
but they are hampered by the fact that those
of them who grow wheat have prevailed upon
the Government to impose a “dumping duty”
on Australian wheat. Their principal spokes-
man in the Ministry is A. D. McLeod, and
McLeod has an almost Carlylean devotion
to facts. His verdict is that farmers ought
to approve of “moderate protection” of
secondary industries. But his colleagues
don’t agree. Downie Stewart, who can
see the philosophical case for Protection as
well as anyone, got up on the heels of
McLeod to tell the manufacturers that if
they wanted anymore Protection they would
have to be darned diplomatic about how they
asked for it.
The manufacturers have put up a case.
They admit that the Maoriland farmer gets
only 20 per cent, more for his products than
he did in 1914, and that he has to pay 35
per cent, more for his farming plant and
50 per cent, more for wages. On the other
hand they plead that the manufacturer has
to pay 55. G per cent, more for materials and
50 to 60 per cent, more in wages than he
did in 1914. They further point out
concerning the Foreign-trade cry that on
£52,456,400 worth of imports in 1925 Maori-
land paid £8,287,288 of duty, which is 15.8
per cent., that a considerable proportion of
that impost was not a Protective duty at
all. but a duty intended to prevent people
drinking and smoking. The duties on spirits,
beer, wine, coffee, cocoa, tea and tobacco
amounted to £2,682,367, and then there was
a primage duty, which is placed on all
imports absolutely as a revenue measure,
which yielded £482,973. The residue—and
a lot of that was imposed on “luxuries.” like
silks and satins and the like, which Maori-
land has never even thought about producing
—amounted to only 9.7 per cent, on the
whole bulk of imports. Again, a substantial
proportion of the money raised through this
customs taxation is used for the direct bene-
fit of the farmer —to pay interest on the
cost of land the State has sold him or given
him (in some cases it looks more like a
gift than anything else) ; to relieve him of
land taxation; to provide him with cheap
loans; to instruct him in the milking of
Strawberry, and to pay salaries to gentle-
men who test his soil, experiment in seeds
on his behalf, and generally tend his inter-
ests with paternal care.
In effect, the Maoriland manufacturer
pays taxes on the city scale, has 28 per cent,
taken off the value of his vote in the country
interest, and has to listen to cable reports
of speeches by Coates about the duty Maori-
land owes to J. Bull in the matter of giving
preference to J.B.’s manufactures. He feels
that he is a worm whose right to turn is
just about next on the list.
In the Hurricane Belt.
“C.” : The cruel experience which part of North
Queensland has suffered, the Ingham district
in particular, is by no means the first of its
kind. From time to time hurricanes have
laid waste the N.Q. coast; every littoral
town, from Cooktown to Bowen, has known
what it is to be almost blown to matchwood,
some of them on two or three occasions.
Cairns had a bad visitation precisely seven
years ago. The cyclone or hurricane cannot
be stayed by human agencies, nor can the
floods which complete the ruin when 20 or
30 inches of rain fall in one day, and 50
or 60 inches in three or four days, as hap-
pened in the present instance. But both can
be guarded against, and their effects allevi-
ated, by foresight and commonsense. Cairns,
a town on a sea beach, is built mostly of
flimsy timber shacks raised on piles and
loosely roofed with galvanised-iron. In hur-
ricane belts in other countries the build-
ings, as a rule, are of brick and stone,
designed to resist the wind in its worst
moods, and adequately roofed. Of recent
years reinforced concrete has come into
favor; buildings of this type successfully
withstood the Miami hurricane in Florida
some months ago. There is sand, coral lime
and stone of all sorts within carting distance
of nearly every N.Q. coastal town. In the
rebuilding rendered necessary by the late
cyclone, matchwood and iron sheets should
certainly be abandoned for material of a
solider nature, reinforced concrete, where
possible; the Government should set the
example, and the financial institutions might
assist. The floods also emphasise the need
for preventive measures. Though many N.Q.
towns are periodically menaced by such
rivers as the Johnstone, the Burdekin and
the Tully, no attempt has ever been made
to build containing or diverting levees. Apart
from the tragic death-roll in Ingham and
elsewhere, the loss caused by destruction of
livestock, crops, works and buildings and
damage to public and private property is
estimated at the best part of a million sterl-
ing. Such a sum would go a long way in
flood prevention and the building of hurri-
cane-proof towns. North Australia has this
advantage over the West Indies, Florida and
other hurricane-threatened lands. It is not
subject to the earthquakes which in those
parts often wreck what the wind was power-
less to destroy.
♦ .
One Result of Langism.
Seven years ago a Sydney wage-earner de-
serted his wife and four children, the
youngest but three months old. Towards
their maintenance between that date and his
death he contributed £4O. On the deserted
wife fell the. burden, with this sole contri-
bution from their father, of maintaining
herself and the children. After the desertion
the father set up a second establishment
with a married woman who had one child
by her husband and gave a second child
to her paramour. The man was killed in
July last in some rock-blasting work he was
carrying out for the Water and Sewerage
Board. Under the Lang-Badly AVorkmen’s
Compensation Act, claims against the em-
ploying board were sent in by the wife and
by the other lady, in the case of the former
for herself and the four legitimate children,
and in that of the latter for the two children
—one by her illicit partner and one by her
husband. The claims came before the Work-
men’s Compensation Commission, which is
a law unto itself, as far as the fat-
headed Government could make it so.
The Commission arrived at the Gil-
bertian conclusion that the widow and
her four legitimate children, having been
deserted and thus forced to live on the
woman’s earnings at the wash-tub, were not
dependants within the meaning of the
remarkable piece of Lang-Badly legislation,
whereas the two children of the woman with
whom the wife-deserter had been living, hav-
ing been supported on the money which
should have gone to the maintenance of those
who were legitimately entitled to it, tv ere
dependants and entitled to receive compen-
sation. (Compensation was awarded accord-
ingly—£7so to the illegitimate child and £5O
to the other. A more damnable distortion of
justice can scarcely be conceived. And its
conception lies in the text of an Act of Par-
liament which, like a host of similar mea-
sures, was bustled through the Leg. Assem-
bly with the minimum of debate. The Com-
mission was bound by a clause defining
dependants as “those wholly or in part
dependent on the earnings of a worker at
the time of his death.” In effect, this
legalised robbery of a wronged woman is the
result of gross ignorance in the prepara-
tion of legislation, and of that quality
which invariably accompanies ignorance, the
mulish obstinacy which will not listen to
advice and criticism in open debate, but
slams the door in the face of all opposition
to the will of the legislative bully.
Oil, and a Letter to Page.
On the principle that everything is the other
man’s business, a shire president in the
N.S.AV. Blue Mountains lately wrote a strenu-
ous letter to Treasurer Earle Page, telling
him that it was the plain and obvious duty
of the Commonwealth to work the Newnes
(N.S.AV.) shale deposits and bring forth oil.
Failure to do so, it was almost stated, would
mark Page as a minion of United States and
Anglo-Persian oil interests, which “will not
allow Newnes to be worked.” As a matter
of fact, it is unlikely that the Yanks take
a shred of interest in Newnes, though thr


1
m
■L
m
saw
n
amii
DTT
111
m
I
*s®
an
3rn
NiiSeb
«t>
lit"
■lll*
■Rill
a
1
TMustralia
Capital Paid-up £ 1/22,100.
The Hotel of the Commonwealth, Sydney.
EASTER IN SYDNEY
ST si £'”* c=S
of “The Australia,” the comfort and convenience, the world-famous cuts,ne the
refinement and gkiety, the unobtrusive service. Telegraph reservahons a. oncel
Telegraphic, Wireless and Cable Address: “Austraotel, Sydney.”
Magnificent 20-pane folder free on request if you intend visiting Sydney.
discovery of real oii-wells hereabouts might
make them sit up. Shale-production in
N.S.W. went on for GO years (1865-1024),
and British companies lost a good. deal of
capital in it, and two oil refineries opened
and closed, and there were strikes and dis-
turbances, and the total result was 13,000,000
gallons. It was at least a month or two s
supply. Whatever else is doubtful, it is
pretty certain that attempts to found a genu-
ine oil industry on foreign capital, especially
if it is loan capital, will produce little.
It is estimated by very good authorities
that oil-hunting, even in the prolific United
States, has cost a very great deal more than
the value of the stuff produced. In the case
of the earlier finds, petroleum burst out of
the ground gratis in vast quantities, but
when men went boring for it in all manner
(if places, the proportion of duds was fright-
ful. Still, the' petroleum that was found,
and to a great extent exported, brought an
immensity of wealth into the U.S. And the
fortunes which were lost didn t go out ot
the U.S. The money went to local maclnii-
ery-makers and workmen and swindlers and
all sorts and conditions of men and hounds,
and it was taken from all sorts of men, also
women and children. But it remained inside
the republic, no matter how much it was
lost, and it was always ready for new enter-
prises. It is when a derelict railway or a
dry well has been financed out of an inter-
minable loan floated abroad that the dead and
disastrous horse remains on the premises,
and the loss can’t be cleared away and
forgotten. ...
Some reasons why the Commonwealth Go\-
ernment .should keep dear of oil are that the
loan habit is too prevalent, that oil isn’t its
business, and that there is lack of evidence
that there is enough oil to get excited about.
■
Giving Melbourne the Once-over.
Tiie programme for the Yorkist conquest of
Melbourne lias amiised some residents of that
city and infuriated others. The Duke ami
Duchess will berth at Port Melbourne on
Thursday, April 21, but the route from
thence to the city being a horrid thorough
fare hated of the Town Planning Commis-
sion, they will transfer to a “royal barge’
and land at St. Ivilda, where they will bo
greeted with approximately 1000 official
paws. They will proceed to the garden city
via St. Kilda-road, so that they may go
away with the impression that all high-
ways in the State are as broad as an oval
and as smooth as ; billiard-tables. They will
then inspect the city, engaging en route with
more aldermen at the Town Ilall and more
politicians at Federal Government House.
Some relief from the official plague will be
supplied by a parade of Boy Scouts and
Girl Guides. That evening their food will
he paid for by Lord Stonehaven, and they
will eat it with more politicians. The treat
on Friday will be to greet the President of
the Leg. Council, the Speaker of the Leg.
Assembly, the State Ministers and Premier
Allan. In the afternoon, at the Exhibi-
tion, there will be a People’s Ileception,
whatever that may mean; but lest the be-
wildered couple may run away with the
mistaken notion that the supply of politi-
cians is exhausted, there will be more of
them at the State ball in the evening. On
Saturday the Duke and Duchess will see a
race run at Flemington, if they get through
the cloud of politicians and racing officials
barring the way. Other entertainments will
be addresses of loyalty at Federal Govern-
ment House, still more assurances of the
same nature at Federal Parliament House,
another meeting with the übiquitous Allan
at the cricket ground, and the conferring of
a degree on the Duke at the University. In
between, the pair will creep away for a
private visit to a friend in the country,
who has poison laid for aldermen and poli-
ticians, and has threatened to shoot any
illuminated address approaching nearer than
a mile. There have been the usual outbursts
of indignation over the programme, on the
ground that it is undemocratic and does not
fulfil the Duke's wish to see things for him-
self. It is difficult to know how a royal
personage can see things for himself unless
he slips out of the barrage of official obscu-
rantists disguised as Haroun al Raschid
in the middle of the night. Then he might
stumble on an abandoned soldier-selection, or
try to walk across the Yarra on the Spencer-
street bridge; or fall into the hole where
the State sinking fund should be; and that
would be unpleasant for everyone concerned.
+
“M.G.S.”: No compensation has yet been
mooted by the Federal Government for its
servants "who are shortly to be uprooted
from their city homes to sojourn for the
rest of their lives in Canberra. Certainly
life in Canberra will not be comparable to
the existence of Witzel and his gangrened
Colleagues on the “White Cargo” coast of
Leon Gordon, but there is no disguising
the fact that certain disabilities will have
to be endured. The daughters of the civil
servant will have less chance of being satis-
factorily paired in Canberra, for instance,
than in Melbourne, where dance halls and
other marriage markets are open afternoon
and evening. The psychological effect on
the civil servant's wife of meeting none but
the wives of other civil servants is not to be
lightly under-rated, and the social landscape
is also liable to be disagreeably cluttered up
with politicians. Also, the cost of living
is already high and certain to go higher;
and the suburbs of the city of dreams at
present consist of handsful of houses
scattered at distances of two to three miles
from one another. The amusements _ for a
long time to come will consist of one picture-
show and the meetings of the Federal Par-
liament: and the higher education won’t be
obtainable nearer than Melbourne or Sydney.
Most private firms recognise the principle
that when their employees are obliged to
leave the centre of civilisation where they
were engaged to encounter the dangers, ex-
penses and discomforts of savage lands, they
are entitled to some compensation. A foreign
service, allowance, for instance, is paid to
Australian bank clerks, etc., transferred to
places like the Dutch East Indies. There
is no reason why one section of the people
should be asked to pay out of their own
pockets more than others for the luxury of
living in Canberra.
“X ’lmports” : The North Queensland coast
is accursed of mariners for its "black” lights.
There is nothing new in that information,
because for 20 years skippers have been
clamoring for a light or two in the darkness
of the Barrier Reef. In a voyage along the
coast you lose the North Barnard light as
BREAKING HER OF A BAD HABIT.
GENT.: “Half a gallon, m’boy.”
BOWSER BOY: “What, are yer try in’ to wean her, Mister ?”
you crawl past the Russell group, 27 miles
up. When you leave the gloom of the Rus-
sells, you creep along until you get a gleam
from the Low Isles, about (50 miles to the
north. Half-way between these two points
is Cape Grafton, and close to that cape
is Fitzroy Island. A light on Fitzroy
would send a gleam for 30 miles in good
weather. Opposite Fitzroy is Grafton Passage
through the Barrier. It is the best-known
passage into the coastal waters, because it
is near Cairns, the first and last port of call
for overseas steamers visiting Queensland. It
is five miles wide, deep in all its bearings, and
with no turnings or scattered reeflets in its
innards; but it cannot be picked up in the
dark. A light on Fitzroy would stare it in
the face. Once led inside the reef, the ship
would be safe there also, because the same
light would guide it up and down the coast.
There is no other passage through the reef
so favorable. Master mariners from the Sol-
omons, Fiji and other parts want this light,
and it is necessary for coastal shipping, nor
would the cost be great. Only last year the
Fiona stuck hard on Green Island, five
miles north of Fitzroy, and a few months ago
the oil-tanker Rio Claro found itself in a
predicament on Scott Reef, which would be
within the radius of a light on Fitzroy.
«
“Armidale” : The application of the Aus-
tralian sawmillers for adequate Protection
would have a better chance if the labor con-
ditions in Canada were more widely known,
Chinese and whites work side by side in
the logging camps and lumber mills of Brit-
ish Columbia. By employing Chinese lumber
companies are able to depress the wages of
all their workers. The wage for unskilled
labor is. 25 cents an hour, and skilled men
working on machines in many instances
receive only 35 cents. This is despite the
fact that a minimum wage of 40 cents an
hour has been granted to the lumber work-
ers by a wages board. Against this mini-
mum the employers are appealing, on the
ground that the board has not the power to
fix a rate for a single industry. Twenty-five
cents an hour is affluence to a Chinese coolie,
and there are many Chinese coolies m Brit-
ish Columbia. Without a substantial tariff
Australian millers, who have to observe
Arbitration Court conditions, will be forced
to surrender their own home market to
Canadians employing Chinese and other
cheap labor.
*
“Nakiioiia" : The early pioneers who broke
the back of this fair land came out to a
country which was mainly rumor, and horrid
rumor'at that. The present writer lias a
picture painted over 100 years ago which
purports to give a true version of the sort
of things the immigrant to S. Australia, then
in process of being tackled, would have to
encounter. It shows a colonist battling
with a python while an enormous alligator
with half of its length in a noisome swamp
has the hero by the slack of the pants.
There is no evidence that this sort of advance
information deterred a single prospective
migrant; yet, according to Australia House,
statistics show that the reports of Vic. bush
fires and Queensland floods, published in
London, caused a sharp drop in applica-
tions for assisted passages. It shows what
too much assistance may do to a “pioneer.”
“Blum” : With Maoriland’s Times lately
buried by a young rival, the Dominion, there
dies, temporarily at all events, the notion
that a newspaper in a country whose most
active political force is the farmer can live
by propagating Liberalism, as the thing was
understood a quarter of a century ago. The
Times started out with the best of inten-
tions. It mirrored the lofty reflections of
George Grey and Ballance, who both fell
in love with Maoriland and dreamed dreams
of an ideal State. Seddon found it a pillar
of strength, and Ward valued it so highly
that for a time he was the principal share-
holder. And then the evil times came and
men found no pleasure in the journal. There
was a wild interregnum during which a gentle-
man from the land of the wooden nutmeg
tried to put the paper on its legs. There was
also a delirious period when that most delight-
ful of socialist fanatics, Walter Thomas
Mills, sometime Milwaukee professor,
preached the co-operative commonwealth in
collaboration with the most open-minded
editor I ever met. But it couldn’t last. The
advertisers : revolted, and told the Times
that it could run along and die in the poor-
house so far as they were concerned. Then
Geddis came along, and the Times became
a sort of heeler for Massey and his Country-
party following. It applauded sometimes at
the right places and sometimes at the wrong
ones —to my way of thinking Massey was
as right as often as he was wrong—but it
was sailing under false colors and earned
the reputation of a renegade. Now it is dead,
and none so poor as to do it reverence.
- ♦
“Murkah” : “Tiie Listening-Insect'’ is
-sadly at sea when he states (B. 10/2/’27)
that the Allies trusted' 99.9 per cent of their
business to the cable. America, for instance,
trusted 0 per cent, to it; instead, two large
radio stations were erected —one at Anna-
polis and another at Bordeaux. Although
war traffic had priority over a dozen already
existing cables, business between Washington
and U.S. h.q. in France was conducted
exclusively through those two stations. Could
the opinion of a great engineering nation be
more clearly expressed? “T. L.-I.’s” state-
ment that he has been unable to detect any
development in radio is only another case of
the telescope to the blind eye. Some
examples. The British naval station at
Horsea, England, runs a daily 24-hour
schedule, during which period (at four-hour
intervals) communication is established with
naval stations dotted all over the Empire.
This earth-wide system was inaugurated in
1919 and completed, by the linking up of
Garden Island, Sydney, in 1925. Accord-
ing to his own statement “T.L.-I.” never
heard of it. A still more notable example
is the development of commercial radio
between . xVmcrica and Europe. Working
duplex (i.e., both ways at once) New York
Radio Central, 10 stations each of 200
k.w., operates continuously with Carnarvon
(Wales), Nauen (Germany), St. Assise
(France), Warsaw,' Stavenger (Norway)
and Buenos Ayres. Then there are the
Canadian-Britislv radio links, including the
recent “beam” ; all work at from 70 to 100
words per minute. These services, all in-
augurated since the war. and representing
millions in capital, established themselves in
the teeth of the fiercest opposition from the
cable cos. The recently-advertised reduction
of 6d. per word in the English-Australian
cable rate shows clearly what the cable cos.
are thinking. Incidentally, there is no
“miracle” about fishing up a cable. The
first trans-Atlantic cables frequently sawed
themselves through. They were brought to
the surface and repaired. But no one
thought it a miracle even 70 years ago.
*
“X2X”: The most glaring defect in the Anti-
Narcotic Act, now in force in N. S, Hales,
is the leniency shown towards those who
may be convicted of participation in the
traffic. It is fairly common knowledge that
the whole atrocious business is in the hands
of-a ring which, through its agents and depu-
ties, conducts the distribution of dope on
strictly commercial lines. The fines pro-
vided by the Act are less than the profits of
a single agent in the course of a. few days.
Another bad point in the measure is that it
makes no distinction between the ghoulish
trafficker in forbidden drugs and the
wretched victim of the habit. The experi-
ence of other countries lias shown, that there
is only one way in which the drug tramc
can be stamped out. This is by means ot
a vigorous and determined campaign against
the sellers and distributors, with terms of
imprisonment, not fines, as the penalty ot
conviction. The drug trafficker s victims
should be treated not as criminals, but as
sufferers from a disease often contracted
through no fault of their own.
4 —
“Med.” : An Australasian College of Sur-
geons, the necessity for which has been
referred to in Tiie Bulletin, is a reality
at last; it was founded the other day m
Dunedin, where the Medical Congress was
held. The objects, as set out in the con
stitution, are to cultivate and maintain the
highest principles of surgical practice and
ethics, to safeguard the welfare of the com-
munity by indicating . that Fellow's have
attained a high standard of- surgical com-
petency and are of high character, to edu-
cate the public to recognise that the practice
of surgery demands adequate and . special
training, to promote the practice of surgery
under proper conditions by securing the im-
provement of hospitals and hospital methods,
to arrange for adequate post-graduate sur-
gical training at universities and hospitals,
to promote research in surgery, _ and to brim,
together the surgeons of Australia and Maori-
land periodically for scientific discussion an
practical demonstration of surgical subjects
This is a movement which should be wel-
comed. and not only for the reasons set
out. While it is not desirable to minimise
the advantages to be gained _ from surgica
experience in England and in other par '
of the world, foreign travel should not 1
regarded as essential. Australasia ha-
trained, and will continue to train, surgeon'
of the first rank, surgeons not stamped witn
the approval of any corporate or charterei
body overseas,; The . Australasian hall-marl
should be sufficient guarantee of competenc
and skill.
[For any Plain English paragraphs which
a signature under the law, S. II. Prior, J. E. e 1
and James Edmond, of 214 George-street. Sydney,
are responsible.]


The Australian Provincial Assurance Association Limited
HEAD OFFICE: 77 KING STREET, SYDNEY.
Directors; Messrs. WM. NORTHAM (Chairman), T. W. RAPLEY (Managing Director), ALEX. KING, P. R. HIGGINS, and Dr. E. MORRIS HUMPHERY.
Total Assets exceed. . . . • • £1,724,000
BRANCHES: Melbourne, Brisbane, Adelaide, Perth, Hobart. NEW ZEALAND: Wellington, Auckland, Christchurch, Dunedin.
SOME REASONS WHY YOU SHOULD INSURE WITH THE A.P.A.:
(1) Because in the event of total disablement for life all future premiums
will be paid by the Association and no deduction made from policy or
bonuses. ~ ...
(2) Hospital Benefits are given with every Life Policy applicable to public
and private hospitals, varying in amount according to the sum assured
and no deduction made from policy or bonuses.
(3) In tlie event of loss of eye or limb through accident, a quarter of the
sum assured will be paid forthwith, and the premium reduced propor-
tionately.
(4) PERSONAL ACCIDENT and Combined Benefit Policies provide for
almost every contingency.
NO EXTRA PREMIUM IS CHARGED FOR THESE BENEFITS:
Probate, Children’s Education and Finance Policies specialised.
Applications for Agencies invited from men of integrity.
GEO. PEACOCK, A.C.1.5., Secretary.
T. W. RAPLEY, Managing Director.
POLITICAL
POINTS
The Newcastle coalminers made a sudden
stoppage lately with a demand for a solid
minimum wage as a sort of foundation
underneath the piecework rate, and when
they decided to resume as casually as they
had left off the start-work whistles
didn’t blow immediately. The owners wanted
to know if anything could be done to allevi-
ate the sudden-stoppage disease, and they
weren’t feeling very good over some other
matters. The Sydney Stock Exchange list
quotes the shares of 18 coal-mining com-
panies, and, allowing for preference and
ordinary capital, there are 25 different sorts
of shares. A recent list showed that 10
varieties received no dividend ; three aver-
aged 4 per cent., one returned 5 per cent.,
one 6. one 7 and one 74. These figures
are not very great, seeing that a coalmine,
and any sort of mine, is a perishing security.
The foreign export trade has fallen so much
that in 1925 it was a'million tons less than
in 1921, and it has continued the.fall since.
With the child-endowment problem looming
as an unknown quantity, the owners, or
at least the poorer ones, once their mines
had left off working, had a languid tendency
to “wait and see.’
When a Brisbane Trades and Labor Coun-
cil deputation called on Premier McCormack
to demand sustenance allowances for the
men who are striking for a 40-hour week, it
was spoken to in language such as no Queens-
land Premier had dared to use on such an
tccasion for years. It was quite a differ-
ent stage-setting from that of a few years
ago, when a similar crowd took possession
of a Minister’s office, and smoked and had
a sing-song there till closing-time, while the
Minister hid in his other business premises
at the railway station, and pretended not
to know that anything was happening.
McCormack’s remarks seemed to do the depu-
tation a lot of good.
Victorians expect that one of the early
achievements of the next Leg. Assembly will
be a. salary grab, though not a word has yet
been breathed by candidates about it. There
was an occasion in Vic. when members actu-
ally gave up some of their Salary. That
was after the bursting of the boom 35 years
ago when the emolument was lowered from
£3OO to £270. The crowd that gets in nowa-
days wouldn’t vote itself a reduction if
half the country was swept into the Pacific
by a tidal wave.
No doubt ex-Premier Theodore, of Queens-
land, is perfectly honest in his opinion that,
having a long experience at incurring debts,
making railways bankrupt, increasing taxes
and never paying off anything, he is the rignt
man to devise a plan for liquidating all the
State’s huge liabilities, and should be taken
seriously. Yet, it suggests the young man
who has lost his fortune at Monte Carlo
and sets up as a financial authority on the
strength of it.
In Westralia, as in South Aus., necessity
has forced an election truce on the State
Nationalists and (’ockies. A more or less
cordial understanding has been arrived at
by the Mitehellites and Mongerites of Jarrali-
land, who indulged in the luxury of quar-
relling for four years. Even so, Political
Labor begins the election campaign with
decided advantages, thanks to the distribu-
tion of seats which it pledged itself to alter
on democratic lines and the barrels of
money supplied by the simple-minded Bruce-
Page Government. One of the country elec-
torates into which bands of pick-and-shovel
men were rushed from the city in time to
get their names on the electoral roll is
Greenougli, which was represented by Harry
Maley. Minister of Agriculture and ,Country-
party-loader till the Nat.-Cocky split. Be-
fore 1924 it was never reckoned a Labor
seat, and in ordinary circumstances Maley
would easily win it back; but the other side
is confident that the pick-and-shovel men
will do the trick for the accidental Labor
member.
In 1926 Maoriland came within 45 of
setting up a new record for arrivals in the
country—the biggest year was 1863, when
45,730 souls flocked in. Last year 17,868
of the arrivals were immigrants intending
to stay, which is 2164 more than came in
1925. Maoriland, alone of the Dominions,
is now taking immigrants at the pre-war
rate of absorption, despite the fact that it
has less good land to offer settlers than any
other self-governing unit of the Empire.
The principal fruit of the policy is that the
number of unemployed in the cities each
winter is becoming an increasingly serious
problem. Coates has. therefore, decided that
immigration must be tapered off during the
winter months.
THE BABY THAT WON'T BE WEANED.
“The Commonwealth Government is striving desperately to persuade the States of the advantages of
foregoing the per capita payments.”
The N.S.W. Lang Government, which
started by giving the railwaymen the 44-
hour week, at a cost of about £200,000 p.a.,
and making 1917 strikers a privileged band,
lias been ordered to pass a Railway Bill
providing for many more concessions, and
to look sharp about it. The “demands”
include (1) the sacking of one of the pre-
sent Commissioners to make room for an
employees’ nominee; (2) depriving the Com-
missioners of the power to fire any member
of the union ; (3) making employees’ free
passes a legal right instead of a privilege ;
(4) reinstatement of the superannuation
privileges of men who lost those privileges
by striking;. and (5) the granting of holi-
days to all wages men on the scale now
limited to the salaried staff. This ultima-
tum, it was mentioned, came from “60,000
men whose vote can defeat any Govern-
ment.” The reply should have been that
the “demands” were all rejected, and that
to save the people, once and for all, from
being blackmailed by a section, the Govern-
ment proposed to segregate the vote with
which it was threatened, and to make Min-
istries elective. But the Lang crowd isn’t
that sort of Government, so the Railway
Bill is to be introduced “almost imme-
diately.”
Four years ago a Victorian Parliamentary
Commission, assisted by British harbor-
engineer Buchanan, recommended that Port-
land should be fitted out as a place Cor
overseas trade and some other harbors
equipped for coastal service, each being put
under a locally-elected board with extensive
rating powers. Nothing was done except to
borrow more money and put more settlers
on high-priced scraps of land. If something
had been done for the outer ports, the Allan-
cock Government might have staved off the
redistribution of seats on the plea that it
expected the country districts to fill up at
any moment, but that might have seemed
frivoloi**.
One of the “rich employers” whom the
Langs and the Slangwliangs regard as always
good for some more taxes stated his simple
ordinary case the other day in a Sydney
paper. He was a country storekeeper, and
paid over £lOOO a year in wages. For a
number of years he hadn’t averaged a clear
£3OO per annum for himself, and if he had
to pay £65 per annum for child endowment,
lie expected to have a little over £2OO. There
arc plenty of such cases. A daily paper like
Sydney Telegraph, with a weekly attached,
has an immense wages bill, and if the Langs
and the Slangwhangs add 64 per cent, to it for
their endowment scheme the bill will be
more immense. Yet, this, year the company
makes less than its own office-boy; that is
to say, the office-boy gets his wages, and the
proprietors get a loss of some thousands.
If the impost arrives and looks like stay-
ing, a lot of struggling concerns will consider
whether it wouldn’t be best to discharge
everybody and turn the premises into flats.
Queensland has decided not to repair the
flood damage on the Alma-den to Forsayth
railway—l 424 miles long, and an inveterate
money-loser. So another permanent and
reproductive asset goes to its long home.
Australian politicians are letting the legis-
lators of other countries get ahead of them.
The representatives of the German people,
who proudly claim that they already enjoy
the same travelling privileges as the Aus-
tralian politician, are now demanding free
passes over the air routes of the Fatherland.
No Australian lawmaker has yet suggested
that, although the commercial aeroplane has
established itself in the Commonwealth, and
is safer than the motor-’bus on flapper-
haunted routes.
Last week Vic. Executive Council approved
of the appointment of skirted Justices of the
Feace, thus bringing Victoria in line with
the march of progress in the other divisions
of the Commonwealth. Australian women
have had the vote in politics for a quarter of
a century without bringing the millennium
perceptibly closer or even giving a feminine
touch, like polite manners, refined deport-
ment or even a new style in hats, to the
nation’s government, so it is doubtful
whether the crime wave in Melbourne will
retire abashed at the news. But hope springs
eternal in the human breast, and feminist
circles are bubbling with exultation over
their victory.
There is a strong drive in Adelaide in
favor of getting a permanent post in the.
Federal Ministry for Senator McLachlan,
who did Attorney-General Latham’s work
during Latham’s absence abroad, and did it
well. The notion is that Bruce might be
induced to make a place for McLachlan by
taking Defence from Howse, who is a very
sick man, and handing it to Glasgow, leav-
ing Howse to administer Health alone, and
shunting Home and Territories over to
McLachlan. The trouble is that there are
already three Ministers in the Senate, and
a fourth would be superfluous. This objec-
tion would remain if Howse decided lie
could not carry on. One way of getting over
the difficulty would be to drop Pearce. Few
people have ever been able to understand
why Bruce picked Pearce in the first place.
It is unusual to find the Sydney Trades
and Labor Council approving of the High
Court. But J. Ryan, of the Red body,
voiced his appreciation of the tribunal last
week, and, what is more, suggested sooling
it on to Comrade Lang. Damning the latter’s
child-endowment scheme, which in its latest
phase provides for a p.c. tax on wages
bills, Comrade Ryan said the toiler should
not be frustrated by a measly endowment
scheme in the place of a basic-wage increase;
“it was merely a case of taking the matter
to the High Court and getting the whole
thing set aside.” And knowing what hap-
pened in the 44-hour-week case, and fearing
what will happen in the affair of the news-
paper tax, Lang once more felt his heart
go down to his boots.
Whatever may be the failings of Alec
Peacock, he is not so paltry as to have a club
waiter sacked because the man refused to
supply Peacock and his cronies with drinks
after hours. So he had no difficulty in
refuting a statement made by a waiter ; n
the Arbitration Court the other day that he
had been guilty of such meanness. Why the
union concerned should have launched such
a charge at a man who has done so much
to improve the conditions of all sorts of
workers is mysterious. Of course a general
election is coming on, and Labor still feels
sore over the seats redistribution scheme.
When Theodore and his heelers brag un-
duly about the progress of Queensland
during the Labor regime, note should be
taken that one-tliird of the cultivated area
of the State is under crops which are sub-
sidised by the Commonwealth taxpayer.
Sugar takes up about 24 per cent, of the
space, and is far the biggest item. The
Commonwealth Government has barred
foreign competition until 1028. Australia
pays £20 per ton for its sugar, while the
.outside price is about £11 (is. This helps
Theodore’s old State considerably, and the
very high wages which are thus made pos-
sible in the industry raise the Queensland
wage average. Theodore ascribes the result
to his own sagacity.
Unless the management is good, the Can-
berra opening may give the Prince and
Princess and other distinguished characters
a wrong impression about Australia’s drink-
ing habits. The Canberra working force is
divided into two sections, and these get their
fortnight’s pay week about, so that they may
not all get sozzled at once. If there were
pubs at Canberra, the ordinary workman
might have two or three drinks on an even-
ing and stop at that, but the capital being
technically dry it has become a custom to
go eight miles to the over-pubbed town of
Queanbeyan (N.S.W.) on the pay week-end.
This makes the event a sort of sacrament,
and turns a casual drink into a premeditated
drunk. It seems hardly worth while to do
the double journey without taking a few
horrors home as luggage. As the opening
will, of course, be a holiday occasion, it is
presumed that the whole working staff will
be in a position to get drunk at once, and
many will do so—earnestly. H.R.H. and
his partner in the struggle of life will
hear the sounds of revelry on the wind, and
with any luck they will meet the full force
of the revellers as they leave. It will be a
great sight.
[For any Political paragraphs which require a
signature under the law, S. H. Prior, J. E. Webb
and James Edmond, of 214 George-street, Sydney,
are responsible.]
BALLADE OF THE GRATEFUL BOOKIE.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“Mr. P. McGirr (Labor) declared in the N.S.W.
Leg. Council that, most of the money to be given by
the Family Endowment Bill would find its way to
the racecourses. He advocated increased taxation of
bookmakers and betting shops, so that some of it
would come back to the Treasury.”
The book may have had a tiring day—
It isn’t a weakling’s job, you know —
But before he drifts into Blanket Bay
To pound his ear till the roosters crow,
If he isn’t a thankless Ikey Mo
I see him drop on his bended knee
To call a blessing on Lang and Co.
Who keep the punters in £ s. d.
“O Powers above,” I can hear him pray,
“For many a year let them run the show'
Who hand out splosh in this bounteous way
The bulk of which will in wagers go.
The loot in our bursting bags we’ll stow.
For party platforms scant care have we,
But ever a debt to the chaps we owe
Who keep the backers in £ s. d.
“Bless good old Fiddo.,” I hear him say,
Though his face is hid in a quilt of snow
And the voice as deep as a bloodhound’s bay
Is sunk to a suppliant pitch and low,
“So higher wages may he bestow
His zeal for workers to guarantee.
It’ll help the kiddies, and stock —ho! ho!
The punters’ pockets with £ s. d.
Envoy.
He kneels by his bed or he ought to, eh ?
Fervent his prayers rise up and free
For Labor stalwarts, that brave array
Who keep the punters in £ s. d.
N.S.W.
MIDFORD.


o\QNEf/j>
rt
%
J>BuSHto‘^
GOOD JUDGMENT
Good business judgment means choosing the most efficient equip-
ment for every purpose.
PIONEER LEATHER BELTING
and Pioneer Mechanical Leather Goods are the accepted standards
of quality equipment in their respective classes.
Sixty-eight years of experience in tanning, belting and leather goods manufacture are you
guarantee that quality is right.
Your inquiries or orders will be promptly attended to.
Manufactured only by
J. C. LUDOWICI (SL SON, LIMITED
Pioneer House, 117 York Street, SYDNEY,
Pioneer Leather Belting Manufacturers since 1858.
INTERSTATE and NEW ZEALAND AGENTS:
VICTORIA: Benson Bros., Ltd., 107-109
Queen’s Bridge Street, Melbourne.
QUEENSLAND: Hoej , lry, Ltd.,
Edward Street, Brisbane;
Burns, Pfcilp & Co., Ltd., Townsville
SOUTH AUSTRALIA: John McKell and
Sons, Tinipson Street, Port Adelaide.
WEST AUSTRALIA: Horace Summers,
Howard Street, Perth.
TASMANIA: Charles I)avis, Ltd.,
Elizabeth Street, Hobart.
NEW ZEALAND: Friar. Richards &
Upton, Auckland. Blackburn, Smith
& Co., Christchurcn.
NOBEL-GLASGOW EXPLOSIVES.
The Standard of Quality throughout the Empire.
Monobel
Samsonite
Gelatine Dynamite
Gelignite
Blasting Gelatine
Dynamite
Safety Fuse
Detonators
Cartridges
ADFIELDS
(AUSTRALIA) LIMITED
The largest and best-equipped Crushing Machinery Works in Australia.
JAW CRUSHERS —DISC CRUSHERS—GYRATORY CRUSHERS.
PORTABLE CRUSHING PLANTS COMPLETE QUARRY PLANTS.
Hadfields’ Manganese Steel Wearing Parts for all makes of Crushers.
Works and ) Alexandria, Sydney,
Foundries j Bassendean, Perth,
Branch ( 422 Collins Street, Melbourne, Vic.
Office S T. & G. Building, Brisbane, Q.
The WILD CAT
COLUMN
Paterson, Laing and Bruce, Ltd., soft-
goods warehousemen of- London, Sydney and
Melbourne: —■
t Dividends >,
Pref. To Re- Re-
Profits. (6 p.c.) Ordinary. serves, serves.
1916.. 44,733 21,000 6 p.c. = 15,000 8,733 9,244
1917.. 45,714 21,000 6 „ „ 15,000 9,714 18,958
1918.. 69,804 21,000 84 „ „ 21,250 27,554 46,512
1919.. 70,499 21,000 10 „ „ 25,000 24,499 71,011
3920.. 94,105 29,750 12£ „ „ 31,250 33,105104,116
Loss.
1921.. 13,746 30,000 7J „ ~ 18,750 41,620
Profits.
1922.. 51,961 30,000 7J „ „ 18,750 3,211 44,831
1923.. 84,545 30,000 10 „ „ 25,000 29,545 74,376
1924.. 67,014 33,000 10 „ „ 25,000 9,014 83,390
1925.. 61,377 36,000 74 „ „ 18,750 6,627 90,017
1926.. 58,321 36,000 74 „ „ 18,750 3,571 93,588
Issued capital is £850,000 in 250,000 ords.,
350,000 “A” and 250,000 “B” prefs. The
latter are free of income-tax up to 6s. in
the £. The pref. capital is cheap money in
these days of 8 p.c. issues, and the co. is
nicely placed in its debentures (£230,000),
which carry only 4f p.c. Ordinary capital
represents the original issue to the old firm
of P., L. and B. in 1807 ; all capital raised in
the 30 years since has been 6 p.c. pref. The
public is interested only in the prefs.
Holders will note these figures:—
1921. 1924. 1925. 1926.
Ordinary .. £250,000 £250,000 £250,000 £250,000
Preference .. 500,000 600,000 600,000 600,000
Debentures .. 233,642 233,642 233,642 233,642
Liabilities .. 682,664 475,434 469,170 487,675
Freeholds, etc. 341,901 387,890 391,776 383,285
Stock. . . . 959,713 799.245 754,933 678,303
Book debts . . 305,085 369,745 397,923 509,457
Investments and
cash . . 125,542 124,211 125,571 121,233
Ahead of the prefs. are creditors for £721,317,
but they have fair protection, for more or
less liquid assets valued at £1,308,993 were
visible at July 21 and the freeholds, in the
books at £362,129, were valued a couple of
years ago at £600,000. The internal reserve
in that improves the net visible accumulation
which, after final distributions, amounted to
£93,588. Reserves as shown in the accounts
exceed a quarter-million; there is one
reserve of £lOO,OOO invested outside the
business, a general reserve of £125,000
and a substantial undistributed p. and
1. balance. But goodwill still appears at
£161,192, and that has not been considered
an asset in compiling the figures of the intro-
ductory table. The public can see fair pro-
tection for its money, and although only
£250,000 of ordinary capital is helping, re-
serves are increasing.
Profits have been ample for pref. require-
ments with the exception of 1921, when a
small loss was registered. Indeed, in addi-
tion to the 6 p.c. for “A’s” and “R’s,” ordi-
naries have had a fair time over the past
nine years. Prior to 1918 they received only
6 p.c., a restriction imposed until a reserve
of £lOO,OOO had been built up and invested
outside of the business. Nor have reserves
been neglected. Prospects are by no means
rosy for softgoods importers. This Column
has analysed the position and shown how
changed conditions have affected the earn-
ings of Flinders-lane and York-street. Last
year’s reduced profit adds point to the
remarks. At the annual meeting in London
chairman Truman recognised the facts:
“Conditions of trading have changed funda-
mentally during the past decade,” he said,
“and there are no precedents.” Last year’s
difficulties included variation in values,
changes in fashions and fluctuation in raw
cotton and wool. Experimental and punitive
legislation by Labor Governments did not
assist, and tlie importer, of course, sees no
good in the new tariff. Despite adverse fac-
tors last year was above ordinary, and loan
expenditure added to the glitter. The growth
of secondary industries in Australia, and par-
ticularly the extension of textile manufac-
tories, must affect the wholesale softgoods
importers, apart from the tendency of the
big retail houses to deal direct with pro-
ducers overseas. However, P., L. and B. has
the advantage of cheap money, solid reserves,
visible and internal, and is given the credit
of conservatism in its valuation of stocks.
In the circumstances pref. holders have no
reason to lose any sleep.
* * * *
The Newcastle Coal Mining Co., Ltd.:
To Re- Re-
Dec., Profits. Dividends. serves. serves.
1923 .. £7,667 5 p.c. =£so*oo £2667 £11,627
1924 . . 11,190 10 „ „ 10,000 1190 12,817
Loss.
1925 . . 4,575 Nil —■ 8.242
1926 . . 1,620 Nil 6,622
Some business drifted into the office as a
result of the English coal strike, and that
helped. But the net result of the year’s
operations was a loss, and again shareholders
had to do without. They have never had a
rich time. The 10 p.c. of 1924 was unusual;
1917 and 1907 were other bright spots, but
5 p.c. p.a. has been as much as most share-
holders have averaged. The co. made an
early start: in 1877 it was winning coal at
Merewether, Newcastle, one lot of workings
stretching out under the Pacific. These were
sealed up in 1921. Victoria Tunnel, the
second Newcastle mine, is still a regular
producer, but the output is small. When the
end of “A” pit was in sight an area at Greta
was taken up and Whitburn colliery started.
Shareholders haven’t benefited, except that
the co. was given a new lease of life. Un-
assisted by influential shipping or industrial
connections Newcastle Coal has had a hard
fight to win business, and the steady strang-
ling of Australia’s export trade owing to
strikes and heavy labor costs and port
dues has hit it harder than most. Overseas
trade is negligible, declare the directors, and
the demand for small coal is restricted.
Future prospects “depend very materially on
a revival in this latter trade”—but a revival
isn’t in sight. Twelve months ago the man-
agement decided to refuse orders for screened
coal from Whitburn without a proportionate
quantity of small coal, as “less loss was occa-
sioned by the colliery being idle than by
working and storing small.” During the
engine-drivers’ hold-up the co. succeeded in
lifting some of the accumulations. Balance-
sheet figures reflect the decline :
1922. 1924. 1926.
Sundry creditors . . £2,645 £5,373 £1,716
Overdraft . . .. 2,305
Mining property, etc... 85,880 81,144 82,595
Book debts . . . . 15,151 19,425 8,552
' Stores 6,267 8,054 7,009
Coal on hand . . .. 7,113 3,590 1,776
Investments .. .. 2,000 6,000 7,800
Cash 4,977 1,606
Capital is £lOO.OOO in shares of £ll each
paid to £lO. It has been unaltered since
the ’nineties. There have been no gift issues,
and the average div. has been meagre. At
December 31 creditors could see plenty of
cover for the amount owing. The assets
position looks solid enough, but although
the mine property seems to be modestly
valued, adequate provision to cover wastage
is essential. Whether sufficient allowance
has been made is not visible; the figures sug-
gest that it certainly hasn’t been overdone.
Not only has the co. difficulty in winning
markets, but it is not in a position to pur-
chase new areas.- The immediate outlook is
without promise.
* * »' «
Manly Gas Co. (N. S. Wales) :
To Re- Re-
Dec., Profits. Dividends. serves. serves.
1916 .. £5,626 7 p.c. = £4462 £1164 £4,046
1917 .. 5,595 6 „ „ 3825 1770 5,816
1918 .. 8,337 8„ „ 5430 2907 8,723
1919 .. 8,358 8 „ „ 5460 2898 11,621
1920 .. 9,788 8 „ „ 5460 ) ...
Written off renewals res., £3787 ) 04i lAio*
1921 .. 11,136 8 p.c. = 5460 K- r ,
Written off, £4112 f 1664 13 >‘ 26
Reserves written off, £13,001 .. 725
Net
Profit.
1922 .. 7,663 8 p.c. = 6180 1483 2,208
1923 . . 6,086 8 „ „ 7560 734
Premiums on shares, £517 .. .. 1,251
1924 .. 9,864 8 p.c. = 10,344 771
Premiums on shares, £BO4 .. .. 1,575
1925 . . 13,130 8 p.c. = 11,700 1430 3,005
1926 .. 12,040 8 „ „ 13,200 1,845
Adoption in 1925 of the calorific standard
permitted under the Gas Act enabled the
co. to reduce its price by 4d. per thousand
c.f., but on August IS last the amount was
put back; higher prices for coal, the opera-
tion of the 44-hour week and the added cost
due to increased premiums payable under
the Workers’ Compensation Act were given
as the reasons. During the year 25,055
yards of new mains and 8706 yards of new
services were laid, record figures both. It
is to be doubted if all that showed an imme-
diate profit; certainly some of the capital
was dead while the work was in progress.
An amendment of the Gas Act extended the
co.’s area of supply to the Narrabeen dis-
trict, and of the new consumers connected
in the 12 months almost two-thirds were
in the newly-developed Brookvale, Deewliy,
Collaroy and Narrabeen areas. As more
connections are made in the new districts
net earnings should increase. On the other
hand the management has committed itself
to. a policy of expansion, and the fact
that the new areas are sparsely settled
will not lighten the difficulties. ' At the
annual meeting nominal capital was in-
creased to £300,000 by the creation of
100,000 new shares, to clear the way for
further issues of capital, and, on the follow-
ing day 20,000 shares were offered in the
usual manner, most of them falling under
the hammer at 235. 6d. Reserves will bene-
fit by £3381. Expansion has been consis-
tent :
t, -x , 4923 ’ 1924 - 1925 - 1926.
Paid capital. . £102,000 £140,000 £165,000 £165,000
Loans. . . . 32,400 13,300 13.300 14 800
Overdraft . . 7,973 g 44^
Other liabilities 8,550 8,088 11,800 11, 954
Fixed assets.. 149.691 159,514 181.737 206 175
Stocks . . 4,486 6,501 8,744 77il
Book debts . . 6,356 5,540 6,018 0 ’677
Cash, etc. . . 229 1,136 12,842
In addition to main-laying and service work,
two reinforced-concrete tanks for the storage
of tar and ammoniacal liquor were erected,
and a new purifying unit and new boosting
plant installed. The result was the dis-
appearance of £lO,OOO the co. had in invest-
ments and a call on the bank for £9446.
Also the co. transferred only £2OOO to
the special purposes and depreciation fund,
compared wiili £5415 the previous year. The
new capital will not go far. Although the
gas cos. have awakened to the necessity of
educating the people as to the value of gas
and its by-products, the movement has not yet
reached that stage where the demand encour-
ages the initiation of expensive methods to
recover or handle residuals, and Manly Gas
is not doing as well in this branch of manu-
facture as it was several years ago:—
Revenue- 1923 - 1925 ‘ 1926 ‘
Gas sales .. .. £53,549 £60,042 £61,818
Residuals, etc. .. 8,232 7,280 7,764
Total . . .. £61,781 £67,322 £69,582
Expenditure—
Manufacture .. .. £37,211 £33,965 £38,110
Distribution .. .. 5,154 6,081 7,436
Taxes and rents .. 2,217 2,022 2,087
Management .. 4,785 5,841 6,997
£49,367 £47,909 £54,630
Legislative recognition should be given to
gas cos. for increasing sales of by-products
by the right to pay bonuses out of extra
profits. Under the Gas Act 8 p.c. distribu-
tions to shareholders are fairly secure so
long as management is efficient, for the city
electrical supply is subject to much the same
influences —wages and fuel costs. On the
other hand, competition from electricity is
increasing as electrical household appliances
are cheapened, and there is a point, of
course, where shareholders of a gas co.
might have to be content with less than
8 p.c. to enable their company to compete
successfully with electricity. Meantime, Manly
and its environs are growing, and the new
mains will carry increasing numbers of con-
sumers each term, thus insuring increasing
revenue without the necessity of expenditure
in that particular branch on the same scale
as in recent years.
* * * *
The Sulphide Corporation, Ltd.: —
Dividends. Written Nominal
June, Profits. (Pref. Shares.) Off. Reserves.
1916. .£376,404 30 p.c. = £315,000 £39,000 £317,367
1917.. 413,080 25 „ „ 262,500 134,264 333,683
1918.. 367,869 25 „ „ 262,500 76,969 362.05 S
1919.. 319,232 15 „ „ 157,500 86,807 437,007
1920.. 5,559 Nil 2,685 439,881
1921.. 32,926 Pref. 5p.c.=30,000 2,917 430,890
1 9 22.. 87,241 {gg: 10 5 } 4 > 408 440 ’ 222
All Shares.
1923.. 215,163 15 p.c.= 157,500 50,000 447,885
Reserve disclosed .. £lOO,OOO 547,885
1924.. 84,142 Nil 183,942 448,085
1925. .116,698 j oJ'^' ? ' p -°-” 45 ’ 000 j 65,600 454,183
1926. .192,034 10 p.c. => 105,000 601,000 481,217
A year ago shareholders were informed that,
given freedom from interruptions, the 1926
term would show a profit equal to that of
1923. It was a good forecast; actually the
figure was. within £23,000 of the earlier
year, despite serious checks. There was, for
instance, the dry spell at the Barrier, which
completely tied up production for a couple
of weeks. Zinc-distilling and sulphuric acid-
inaking at Seaton Carew (Eng.) were
affected from May 1 to the end of the co.’s
year by the big coal strike. The
board had no hesitation in handing out 10
p.c. (prefs. are 10 p.c. non-cum. and partici-
pate with ords. in any higher rate). Profits
were good, prospects better, and the effects
of the fire in the Central mine at Broken
Hill reduced to a minor problem. Not that
the distribution was over-generous. Sulphide
Corp. has always been conservative in its
treatment of profits. That policy enabled it
to meet the big trouble of the fire without
being crippled. In the first 12 months the
outbreak cost £187,123 in fire-fighting ex-
penditure alone, and the loss of trade with
metal prices at splendid levels was an addi-
tional blow. In the next term £125,403 fol-
lowed the first lot, and again metal prices
were high. Last year £85,588 was swallowed
up. The last account hasn’t been presented
yet, but the bill for the current term should
be moderate. High temperatures are still met
with at some points, but increasing quanti-
ties of ore are being raised from that section.
Expenditure to be charged under the heading
of “Fire” will now be chiefly the cost of re-
opening the southern section. Last year
43,875 tons of ore was raised from the
northern section. With extraction from the
southern area the quantity has been increased
to 1700 tons weekly. From the Junction
mine 36,578 tons were raised, the grade
being appreciably higher. The Junction was
purchased after the fire for £75,000 and,
apart from its value in keeping the milling
organisation intact during the months fol-
lowing the disaster, the investment should
prove profitable for a number of years. In
addition to the crudes, 35,078 tons of dump
slimes were treated, less than 33,000 tons
remain. Recoveries increased from 88.7 p.c.
to 90.9 p.c. of the silver, 86.2 p.c. to 89.6
p.c. of the lead and 91.2 p.c. to 92.7 p.c. of
the zinc. At the annual meeting in London
the chairman stated that costs were cut back
during the term: lead concentrates from
£l4 18s. 3d. per ton to £l2 125.; zinc ’trates
from 365. 3d. to 30s. lOd.—a 15 p.c. im-
provement. Production figures tell the story
of the fire and the recovery:—
Leadies.
Silver. Lead. Zinc.
1923 I 1,175,676 oz. 17,790 tons. 2617 tons.
1 43.7 oz. 66.1 p.c. 9.7 p.c.
1924 \ 196,451 oz. 2,949 tons. 484 tons.
( 41.1 oz. 61.7 p.c. 10.1 p.c.
1925 J 425,743 oz. .5,836 tons. 1303 tons.
1 41.4 oz. 56.8 p.c. 12.7 p.c.
1926 i 890,984 oz. 12,518 tons. 2501 tons.
£ 42.5 oz. 59.7 p.c. 11.9 p.c.
Zinc.
1923 $ 338,494 oz. 1,915 tons. 16,417 tons.
1 10.0 oz. 5.7 p.c. 48.7 p.c.
1991 i 54,275 oz. 336 tons. 1,936 tons.
) 12.4 oz. 7.7 p.c. 44.4 p.c.
iQ9i I 113,946 oz. 806 tons. 5,500t0i:5.
\ 10.0 oz. 7.1 p.c. 48.5 p.c.
19 >fi i 217,059 oz. 1,577 tons. 11,535 tons.
1 9.2 oz. 6.7 p.c. 49 p.c.
The Central Mine and the less important
Junction loom big in Sulphide Corp.’s
present-day operations, but the keen manage-
ment is steadily developing its industrial
activities against the day when the mines and
mills close down. These figures are satisfac-
tory :
Sulp. Acid. Superphosphates
(tens). (tons).
1920 .. 13,222 17,398
1921 . . 21,737 26,991
1922 .. 22,060 29,173
1923 .. 11,968 17,186
1924 .. 13,560 19,192
1925 . . 15,822 29,074
1926 . . 18,333 34,833
And the improvement was general. Output
of hydrochloric acid was increased from
77 tons to 258 tons. The greater
quantity of superphosphate—34,B33 tons
compared with 29,074 tons—w r as readily
placed. The management considers that it
will soon have a market for full production
of 40,000 tons. Success has attended the
cement venture: the first unit produced
24,328 tons, despite the usual interruptions
experienced by a new plant. A second unit
is under construction. When completed the
co. will have a capacity of more than 60,000
tons. The co. did its own smelting and
refining at Cockle Creek up to 1923, when an
arrangement was made with Associated
Smelters under which the lead concentrates
go to Piric. There is a dump of six to seven
hundred thousand tons of slag at the Creek
averaging 12 p.c. zinc. Experiments were
continued last year, and although the pro-
blem has not yet been solved, the Corp.’s
experts have not given up. At Seaton Carew
(Eng.) all operations were suspended from
April 30 owing to the coal strike, so that
production figures were smaller. Although
six months of the current term have been,lost
the management hopes to use the overhauled
and reconditioned plant to such good purpose
that much of the time lost will be made up.
“Sundry creditors and credit balances” were
higher at £519,078. Included in that sum.
however, are “very large reserves,” held
against taxation claims chiefly. Final settle-
ment had not been achieved up to Decem-
ber. However, shareholders have been
assured that much more has been put aside
than is likely to be called for. Capital
assets were £24,000-odd greater at £1,186,397.
They include: Central and Junction mines,
£543,500;-Cockle Creek works and Attunga
quarry, £381,711; Seaton works, £261,000.
The net increase in the total item was
modest, considering that more than £50,000
was spent on new plant at the Cockle Creek
works. And the £454,183 of accumulated
profit plus £27,034 carry forward is a sub-
stantial offset to any over-optimism in valua-
tion. Lessened expenditure on fire-fightiug
enabled the liquid position to be built up
by a substantial sum and, as the co. becomes
freed of the heavy drag, it can start the
climb to .tlm gilded days when it had
£852,674 in investments and cash alone.
This table covers the past four years:—
1923. 1924. 1925. 1926.
£ £ £ £
Liquid assets 1,387,570 997,405 906.686 1,034,948
Liabilities . . 551,922 511,978 513,889 519.527
Surplus . . £835,648 £485,427 £392,797 £515,421
“Sundry debtors and debit balances,
£434,148,” include £75,000 which represents
the Corp.’s shareholdings in various cos.,
chiefly Durelco, Ltd. (Eng.), and Lysaght
Bros, and Co., Sydney. Durelco holding was
62,985 shares, in the books at 10s. per
share. It had been decided in December
last to exchange 52,985 shares for the
stock of a large and successful listed co-
on a basis equivalent to 13s. 6d. per Durelco
share. The Lysaght scrip, purchased in 1922
and 1923, is in the books at Bs. s§d. a
share —a conservative valuation.
Sulphide Corp. is in its 31st year. Last
year’s divs. brought the total distribution to
shareholders to £3,129,375, and there should
be many a profitable year in the Barrier
properties apart from what may come out
of the expanding industrial activities. Im-
mediate prospects are bright. Metal prices
are easier, but the levels are decidedly profit-
able ; production in the Central is increas-
ing, and the grade of ore from the Junction


THE CHOICE OF
INVESTMENTS
HOW TO PICK THEM.
See
“WildCat’ Monthly”
for February.
Available at all principal
Newsagents, or direct from
“The Bulletin’’ Offices,
Sydney and Melbourne,
Price 2/-
We stock -|- GP -f- Malleable Fittings to suit
every requirement, and as there are over 7500
varieties to choose from, we can accommodate any
trade. For water, steam or gas. Will not split or
crack, and are correct in every detail. Obtainable
fiom William Adams . & Co., Ltd., Sole Agents,
Sydney, Newcastle, Melbourne, Brisbane, Adelaide,
Perth.— Advt.
* * * *
The economic adaptability of Pioneer Wood Pipe
to almost any type of water system is markedly-
evidenced by the great variety of purposes for which
it is being successfully used throughout the Common-
wealth. For town supply systems, large or small
pumping plants, and for high-pressure lines in
electrification schemes, it is proving daily to pro-
gressive engineers that it is the most economical
efficient, and trouble-free conduit that it is possible
to procure. The Australian AVood Pipe Co., Ltd.,
Burns Bay Road, bane Cove. N.S.AV.— Advt
*** • '
Patents. —Have you an idea worth patenting?
Griffith & Hassel, Patent Attorney, 77 Castlercagh
Street, Sydney, obtain Commonwealth and foreign
patents.— Advt.
# * * *
IDM AS —Commonwealth and Foreign Patents
obtained. Coi.i.ison & Co., 483 Collins Street, Mel-
bourne, and Adelaide. Thirty yeais’ practice. Write
us for Inventors’ Guide.— Advt.
* * * •
Are you interested in concrete mixing, etc.?
Arthur Leplastrier & Co. Pty., Ltd., Goldsbrough
House, Sydney; Collins House, Collins Street, Mel-
bourne ; 164 Edward Street, Brisbane; and 29
Morphett Street, Adelaide —manufacture in Australia,
the famous “Multimix” Drum-type Concrete Mixers
from small to very large sizes, and now cater for
the small user with their “Tiltamix” One-man
One-barrovvload Tilting-type Mixer. AVrite, wire or
telephone for full particulars to the nearest branch
of this Concrete Mixing Specialtv Firm. —Advt.
* * * *
A high-class line of Italian Microscopes, known as
the “Koristka,” pronounced by eminent authorities to
be equal to the best German instruments, are now
being offered by Messrs. Felton, Grimwade & Co.
Pty., Ltd., Melbourne, who have been appointed
sole Australian agents. Inquiries will be promptly
responded to. —Advt.
• * * #
Hydraulic Power Electric and Hydraulic Lifts
Limited (incorporated by Act of Parliament,
1888), hydraulic, electric and general engineers, lift
specialists. Maintenance and repairs of all classes of
lifts and other machinery. Mercantile Mutual Build-
ing, 14 Martin Place, Sydney.—Advt.
AH Right!
I’ll meet you at
YOUNG 8 JACKSON’S
The place of meeting of all men on
business and pleasure.
Standing on MELBOURNE’S most
historic corner, everybody who knows
MELBOURNE knows—
Young & Jackson’s,
on the corner of
Flinders and Swanston Streets.
Everybody who visits MELBOURNE wants to
see the FAMOUS PICTURE GALLERY, in
which is included the world-renowned “Chloe."'
First-class accommodation for visitors.
Nothing but the best in all liquors.
J. A. SAFE, Prop.
Ye Jolly Abbot.
MANUFACTURED ONLY BY
T TNFILTERED WATER
'-J contains innumerable
noxious germs, besides being
discolored and unpleasant to
drink.
To ensure purity see that
all cylinders (the filtering
medium) are branded
“Abbot.” The “Abbot” is
approved by all Boards of
Health.
ABBOT FILTERS,
Pressure and Drip.
Obtainable at All Stores.
GUTHRIDGE, LTD., 10 Parramatta Road, Camperdown, Sydney.
Queensland
Insurance Co.
Ltd.
Head Office:
Pitt & Bridge Streets,
Sydney.
The Largest
Australian Company
transacting
Fire, Marine, Personal
Accident and Sickness,
Burglary, Live Stock,
Public Risk, Boiler Ex-
plosion, Workers’ Com-
pensation, etc., etc.
improving; the market for cement super
” ac idV is increasing, and the English
position is likely to be stab e for a while
k e trouble in China has depressed silver
v- hies and each drop of 3d. per ounce below
1905 average represents £12,500 to the co.
\ " against that, the end of heavy expendi-
ture on the fire and the increasing produc-
tion from the Central and the Junction
should result in a fine increase in profit 111
next accounts. The board is very definite,
however, that the financial strength is to
be built up, which rules out the hope of lavish
distributions. * * »
The supply of new producing goldmines
being very scarce in the West, attention is
being feverishly directed over there to a few
old abandoned ones. The Sand Queen-Glad-
stone group at Comet Yale has just been
acquired by a moneyed Perth-Melbourne syn-
dicate, and the Menzies Consolidated at Yun-
daga is being looked at on behalf of another.
This show was closed down some time ago
after 23 years' continuous operations because
an outlay of a fairly large sum on new plant
and deeper development was urgently needed.
The State Government offered to assist, but
the London co. working the show wouldn’t
*° on '»
Ivalgoorlie is anxiously waiting to hear
what the Commonwealth technical committee,
headed by Wainright, has to say about its
past, present and future. The committee’s
report has been in the hands of the Fed-
eral Government for some weeks, and is
likely to be released for publication at any
time. An unconfirmed rumor states that
Wainright and the other members of the
committee fully endorse Royal Commis-
sioner Kingley Thomas’s pointed remarks
about out-of-date plants and behind-the-times
methods, and, like Thomas, reckon that such
a state of affairs has no right to exist.
They are also said to be in favor of sub-
stantial Federal monetary assistance for
development both at Kalgoorlie and Gwalia.
* * * •
A London report says that the Boulder
and Horseshoe, at Kalgoorlie (W.A.), are
as good as amalgamated, and that Lake View
and Star is about to join them. As other
amalgamations on the same field are spoken
of, members of the mining staffs there are
uneasy in mind, as mergers will mean staff
reductions and a reshuffling of positions.
* * * *
Star Mining Co., which has no connection
witn Star Exploration, Ltd., is whooping in
London about its emerald deposits on the
Murchison goldfield (W.A.). On the strength
01 the arrival of one or two small parcels
of stones and another “on the road,” its ss.
shares, of which 160,000 have been issued,
have soared to 155., and are being talked
much higher. The co.’s show is about 40 miles
north-west of Cue. A fair number of stones
have been found on it from time to time
during the past few years, but until the
Star crowd came along the gems were not
considered good or plentiful enough to attract
much attention.
* * * *
Mt. Bischoff did not do so well last year.
If tin had been at the £225 mark the profit
of £11,709 would have shrunk to small dimen-
sions. As it was £4525 more went into the
till than for the previous year, and so made
a ss. div. possible. As the Speck wants cash
the call for a distribution had to be recog-
nised. Otherwise seats on the board might
have been vacant, and the North Valley job
gone phut. Affairs shape comfortably for
that adventure. The co.’s liquid assets
stand at £57,682, with outside liabilities only
£(5749. The ss. div. only swallows £3OOO,
and so the outlook is better than for many a
long day. The big faces are all practically
done. Opening up from the Stanhope Tun-
nel, 125 ft. below the main tunnel shows a
lode carrying 1.78 p.c. tin, but with the
shoot only 14in. wide costs must be high.
The general average of the shoot is higher,
and as the country is favorable more work
may give better ore, and there is the off-
chance of hitting a fresh shoot. The cross
lode is worked out, and the Queen lode is
all that can be relied on; hence the outlook
is for limited yields until the North Valley
area is equipped. It has been thoroughly
sampled by Lindesay Clark and his son.
As they form a safe engineering card, pre-
liminary work is now being shoved ahead
preparatory to the landing of plant on the
ground. When there, the forecast is that
the old show will again have a decent yield
for some years to come.
* * * *
Although a dull year added liabilities to
the accounts of New Red, White and Blue,
the mine has so good a record that Bendi-
gonians still hang on. The last campaign
was on 7dwt. stone, 6015 tons giving 22220 z.
In the old days expenses would have been
covered, but times have changed because of
the Arbitration Court dictum that an indus-
try must comply with awards or give up,
and Bendigo is now down to bare bones. So
tribute work goes on in the mine on stone
which has been averaging a little better
than the co.’s own run-of-the-mine material.
Most of the work is from 1500 ft. down, and
to 1627 ft. in No. 3 shaft. There plenty of
quartz shows in the spurry ground, but a
larger leaven of the precious metal is needed
to get the co. back on to the div. list. The
programme ahead is to get No. 3 shaft down
another 206 ft., for which work the State
advances £2OOO.
Battling at Woods Point, the Morning
Star is on the look-out for Cherry’s and
the Age of Progress makes of stone. The
hunt is from the North Morning Star shaft,
which the co. took over in order to sink
another 200 ft. State aid is helping, and the
co.’s debt to the Treasury now amounts to
£6500, while other creditors are owed
£3670. Over the old mine the co. lost
£4958 in the last six months, and so let
tributors into the workings. They got some
ounce stone, but the quantity is small. The
latest disappointment is that the floor
revealed by No. 9 bore, when opened up,
was mostly poor stuff. Another example of
why mining in the mountains is so full of
devilment! Mostly the runs of stone in the
big diorite dyke-basins are duds,. but the
chance of striking the occasional rich patch
is so alluring a gamble that men stick
to the industry.
* * * *
“Y.”: A quiet little tin boom is progress-
ing gaily in Melbourne. The area supplying
the interest is Scrubby Creek, near the ham-
let of Mitta Mitta, on the river of that name,
midway between Glen Wills and Tallangatta
(Vic.), not far from Mount Bogong. A
motor can get within nine miles of the field.
The last six miles is rough going with an
ascent of 3000 ft. to reach the prospecting
holes. On the pioneer property, the Bowonga
Tin-mining Syndicate, it is said there are
14 lodes all well defined and covering about
a square mile. No. 1 lode is 400 ft. long,
separated in places by bands of country rock.
The prospectors won 10 tons of ore worth
15 p.c. of tin from one of the three sections
in which the lode is divided. No. 2 lode from
2ft. to 6ft. wide can be traced for 400 ft.
No. 3 outcrops for 11 miles, varying from
15ft. to 30ft. in width and showing tin —and
so on up to lode No, 12, which is 1000 ft. long
and may be a continuation of No. 1 lode.
Tin shows on most of the lodes, which are
wide enough and long enough not to be
merely streaks of ore impregnated with tin.
So far everything is on the surface, as 20ft.
is the deepest hole. The locality is very hilly
and the country rough and heavily tim-
bered. The lodes or dykes are of consider-
able size, up to 50ft. wide and standing from
10ft. to 50ft. above the surface. Ore varying
from a trace up to 15 p.c. tin has been shown
by the small amount of prospecting done.
There is plenty of water, though it is hun-
dreds of feet below the outcrops. Numerous
leases have been pegged, and the usual
swarm of companies is being floated. None
of them will succeed without plenty of
money, as there is a great deal of road-
making, clearing and building to be done
before work can be carried out on a business-
like scale.
* * , * •
Grawin opal-field, 40 miles n.-e. from Wal-
gett (N.S.W.) and 30 miles s.-w. from the
nearly-defunct Lightning Ridge field, is the
hustler among recent opal propositions. Nine
months ago there were only a dozen men
at Grawin. Christmas saw the _ number
increased to 65, and latest reports give “over
150, and more arriving daily.” Lack of mois-
ture is the greatest drawback. Huggard’s
claim last week yielded “an amazing show of
enormous opal stones of good quality.” A
note from the spot says: “No goldfield ever
produced more for the men employed than
did White Cliffs, and at Lightning Ridge
800 men won £200,000 worth of stones in a
year. A goldfield would have attracted five
or six thousand men, and prospecting would
have extended out for miles.” Other
reports state that over £3OOO worth
of opal is on hand at Grawin, and that
more than that amount has been marketed.
The opal belt extends through Angledool
and up to Chinchilla (Q.), and across
from Lightning Ridge to White Cliffs, thence
to Conver Pedy, in S.A.
* * * *
South Lucknow has discovered a lode of
pyrites ore s.-w. from the old shaft, at
125 ft. level. A winze is following and open-
ing up the ore body before money is spent
on a battery. The present discovery must,
of course, open up satisfactorily if South
Lucknow is to keep moving.
* * * *
Thabawleik, the Burmese show of Austral
Malay, gave holders a nasty jar last week
in announcing that, with luck, 2s. a share
“may be available during 1927.” There is
still £40,000 of indebtedness, and “a couple
of months must elapse before the dredge
can obtain full recoveries, as it is anticipated
that in the early part of this year there
will be a shortage of water, which will pro-
bably stop the dredge for a month.” It is
also explained that this contingency has
stuck out all along, but that in future dry
seasons it will be minimised. All this,
however, is not very palatable to recent
buyers at the inflated figure of 665. Th°
58s. offering now seems a healthy price in all
the circumstances.
* ' * * *
This is the season when the Malay tin
promoters hold their post-mortems and anti-
cipate the joys to come. The established shows
have done very well, though in one or two
instances the original ground— always the
cream, when a company sets in—has been
gone over. More than one co. is announcing
its acquirement of extra areas, which is sig-
nificant. Still, the cos., as div.-paying con-
cerns, look good in most cases for years to
come. That is quite apart from the extra-
ordinary prices paid for some shares in the
gamble now going on on the Sydney and
Melbourne Exchanges, with a little bit doing
in Adelaide. How far these are artificially
maintained it is not easy to say.
Eastern dredge returns for the first half of
February were poor. Surely the Chinese New
Year is not held responsible by the cos. con-
cerned for low tin contents? To justify
some of the present market quotations there
is need of improvement.
* * * *
Two of the directors of Sumatra Tin Con-
cessions, Ltd., have just returned with
further concessions, and it is reported that
these are to be incorporated in another co.
The suggestion is understandable: ss. shares
in Sumatra Concessions lately sold “in large
lumps” at over 20s. Apart from that fact
there is no obvious reason for an addi-
tional co.
* * * *
Pucliong Tin Dredging, Ltd., was floated in
1925, but, as the tin is very fine and the
ground very deep, the co. has had to give
consideration to the dredge design. The
prospectus stated that “a dredge with a
capacity of 200,000 yards will be ordered,”
and the design was stated to be then under
consideration. It must not be forgotten that
it generally takes 18 months to build a
dredge, another 18 months to erect, and,
say, six months’ initial difficulties, which
means, even if the dredge is ordered forth-
with, a further wait of three and a half years
before digging commences. Shareholders
would doubtless welcome a speeding up.
* * * *
Malayan tin-dredging returns for the first
half of February show a sharp drop, due
in most instances to lost time, including
the Chinese New Year holidays. The biggest
return, 38 tons, came from the Larut tin
amalgamation, which turned over 143,000
c. yd. to get it. Kampong did better with
15J tons from 40,000 yards, and Thabawleik
registered well with 13 : j tons from
17,000 yards, turned over in 167 working
hours. IJlu Yam took 10J tons from 30,000
yards, and Asam the same quantity from 45,000
yards. Rawang’s 52,000 yards gave 15 tons,
which about represents this show’s recent
averages. Malim Nawar worked only 185
hours and took six tons of tin from 33,000
yards, while Malim Nawar South, with 10
tons from 45,000 yards, showed a simi-
lar return. Both concerns dress their tin
in the'same shed. Kundang’s six tons from
a 22,000 yardage maintains last month’s
figures fairly well. Takuapa’s performance,
18 tons from 50,000 yards in 200 hours, may
be considered as satisfactory. Time lost by
the above ran from 152 hours in Kampong’s
case to 48 by Larut.
* * * *
Pungali shares have been sold at 12s. 6d.
premium. The prospectus is rumored to read
very well. In the meantime those with tin;
knowledge of a goodly parcel to be allotted
to them are on excellent terms with them-
selves and all the world.
* * * *
Oriental Tin has refused to take up its
option at Taroh, in Siam, if reports can
be believed. The field engineer’s cable, as
issued to the press, says that this is due to
the fact that bores and potholes have shown
only an average of “31b. of tin to the cubic
yard.” Quite a lot of promoters have lived
happy ever after on an assay of three ounces
to the yard—but that is another story. Any-
way, Oriental is getting to work on its
other options, and hopes to report better
showings.
* * * *
Selayang Tin had expected to get its new
dredge going by the end of 1926. but the
usual interruptions, plus the unusually severe
monsoonal floods, have sent plans awry. A
start is promised for April.
* * * *
Austral Malay, which fathers a lot of
Sydney tin shows, has confessed its past and
told its hopes for the future. Kampong
Kamunting, Thabawleik, IJlu Yam, and
Asam are among the co.’s original litter, and
all have been earning their rice, with a bit
over for the scrip buyers. Reckoning tin at
£2BO, the coming year is expected to beat
the last, which has been satisfactory. The
£1 shares are getting a divvy of 3s. each,
with 4s. promised during 1927.
* * * *
Kampong Kamunting struck what its
report calls “adverse dredging conditions.”
These are, probably, the usual limestone pin-
nacles and ridges which often confound the
estimates of Malayan prospecting engineers.
No. 1 dredge, which is now in the poor
ground, will be dismantled after Kamunting
village site, “garden” ground which should
be a rich patch, has been dug out. Then
dismantling will come, with the transfer of
the dredge to one of the other properties—
which, is not yet determined. No. 2 dredge
is getting a new bucket band, which means
that digging is proving heavier than was
anticipated when the dredge was designed.
Divs. paid were Bs. for the year; shares are
round about 455.
* * * *
A relatively non-inflammable motor spirit
is now being produced in France by the
Russian engineer Makhonine at his factory
at St. Maur. It is produced from the trans-
formation of heavy mineral and vegetable
oils, but the process is as yet a jealously-
guarded State secret. The spirit is known
as the Makhonine carburant, and during
1926 it lias been exhaustively tested by offi-
cers of the French Marine Minister with
such success that the inventor was lately
received by the Minister and congratulated
on the results obtained. The first tests as
to its inflammability were carried out by
chemists of the Ministry. Burning pine
sticks were quenched by a bucket of the
carburant ; and a drum of carburant was
spilled on soil and a lighted torch applied
without effecting combustion. The next tests
were carried out at Cherbourg on French
submarines—No. 57 (carburant) and No. 49
(petrol). The results stated by Minister
Leygues show that the carburant produced
a higher speed. Tests were then run on motor-
lorries and hydroplanes with unqualified suc-
cess as to running qualities. The spirit is
now being manufactured and is in use
already to a limited extent in the French
Navy. It is not suggested that it is going
to be a serious rival to petrol for general
use, but its special quality of non-inflam-
mability outside of the combustion chamber
is apparently going to introduce a new era
of safety for flying-machines and submarines.
* * * *


vncuc MEN
are-
■MEN
§©HJll
Wdtes
\ or
; For Mis CffllDM 0
V ///.*,
life
is tllif
life
NOTHING TO SAT TO THE PRESS.
“As a Senator in 1922, Mr. Victor Wilson said that ‘picture-shows had, in many instances, become a curse to the country’; but as. president of the Motion-Pieta[?]
Distributors in 1926 he asserted that the vogue of the movies had been accompanied by ‘a very considerable reduction in crime in N. S. Wales.’ In point of fact, the N.S.W.
crime statistics showed persistent increases between 1920 and 1925, particularly in respect of juvenile crime. The Police Department now reports that there were furt[?]
heavy increases last year.”
PRESSMAN: “Any remarks to make about this report of the Police Department?”
AUSTRALIAN SENATOR (that was): “Go ’way, ho; cain’t y’ see I’m busy!”


jflyou consider quality -
you must ash tor
20 Three Threes
fir
ARDATH TOBACCO CO: LTD. LONDON,
SOCIETY
"and it's
printed with
WIMBLE'S INKS”
THESE ACCIDENTS WILL
HAPPEN.
MISS BLOND : “See that chap over
there! He’s as variable as the
wind. Just now, before you came,
he was simply sweet to me. Now
he’s twisted right round and won’t
say a word.”
MIRS. BRUNETT : “Is that so? Well,
when I get him home I’ll make him
twist round that much he’ll think
he’s a weathercock!”
“Bill R.” : The luck of incendiaries? A
car-owner of my acquaintance, having decided
that the insurance money was worth more
to him that the rickety contraption, navi-
gated his Liz-Royce abush. Aboard her for
appearance sake lie left a new overcoat, a
suitcase and other articles of value. When
she was commencing to blaze merrily he
strolled away to view the scenery, returning
after a decent interval to find that a com-
pany of Boy Scouts had performed their
day’s good action. But though they had saved
the car they had arrived just too late to
rescue its contents.
* * * *
“The Deacon”: Recently a concert was
held in a one-pub Bananaland town to raise
funds for the local cemetery. The aged
accordion produced the requisite wailing
notes for the dance music, but it was really
the concert programme that ran true to form.
A peg-leg led off by chanting “The Old Sex-
ton,” whilst an octogenarian warbled “Don’t
Bury Me Deep.” Then a small girl obliged
witli “Sec That My Grave Keeps Green,”
and a pleasantly lugubrious evening ended
with a fine basso profundo rendering of
“Down Among the Dead Men.”
* * * *
“Tripod” : During the eight days C.M.T.
camp at Seymour (Vic.), “Digger” Brand, on
a flying visit, rode out to our outpost lines
to see how things were shaping and found
at least one sentry group wide awake. I was
just dozing off when a raucous voice frac-
tured the silence with “Halt, you blankard !
Who goes there?” Somebody admonished the
challenger in lower tones: “Steady, lad, it’s
the General.” “What General?”
“General Brand.” Loud, clear and unhesi-
tating came the sentry’s next: “What
brand?”
* * * *
“Geoloin” : Old George could neither read
nor write, as everyone knew, though George
himself had apparently no suspicion that
anyone knew it. Our railwaymen’s camp was
near his shack and a frequent visitor.
Whenever he saw anyone reading a paper, he
would take an adjacent scat and ask. “Well,
son, wot’s the latest noos?” The man addressed
always went through the form of handing
George the paper, but he would wave it
aside with “Readin’ alwus makes my eyes
ache.” After which the reader would regale
George with sufficient imaginary murders and
bank robberies in Melbourne and Sydney to
throw Chicago into the shade. These apo-
cryphal happenings George would subse-
quently hand on, with a few additions of his
own, during his meal-time calls on the
cockies in the neighborhood, giving as his
authority, “I jest read it in a paper over at
the railwaymen’s camp.” I have often won-
dered since what the neighborhood has done
for its daily horrors since we shifted camp.
* * * *
“Nakhoda”: It would surprise many of
the city people who get their romantic
notions of bush-fires from the progress
reports in the papers to see the real thing
on the spot. I motored the other day
th r ough a Yic.
township which
during the previous
48 hours had
acquired the dra-
matic interest in
the public eye of a
Rudolph Yale n-
tino pursued _by a
sort of cosmic vil-
lain. Actually it
was being threat-
ened at the moment
I was in it, and
fresh breaks were
being burnt in case
the wind changed.
But that fire had
been hanging round
the township for a
week, and there
had been other out-
breaks all the sum-
mer. Danger from
fire in that commu-
nity was as little
of a novelty as risk
of bullet-wounds to
the Diggers in the
trenc h e s. They
were bored with it,
and wanted to talk
of something else.
An old lady was
trotting down the
street with an arm-
fu 1 of gumtree
branches, but-they
weren’t for fight-
ing fires. They
were for decorating
the church hall for
the d a nee that
right. The same
church hall had
narr o w 1 y been
saved from destruc-
tion the previous
afternoon, and the big trees were still smoul-
dering all around it.
* * * *
“Centurion”: The old British regulars
may have died in France, but not their age-
old traditions. In the cabled account of
the landing at Shanghai of the Durham and
Gloucester regiments it is mentioned that,
while the Gloucesters marched w T ith their
rifles sloped and bayonets fixed, the Durhams
carried their bayonetless rifles at the trail.
The reason is that the Durhams are Light
Infantry, and, like all L.I. regiments, were
utilised as the “skirmishers” who, in the
days of the Peninsula and Waterloo, were
thrown out as a covering screen to the armies
A SIMPLE DISH FOR TWO.
“Hello, angel! What do you recommend for my bachelor roast — grass-widow sauce?”
“Did you ever try flapper salad, sir?”
“No. What’s in it—pepper and spice?”
“No—just lettuce alone.”
in the early stages of a great battle. All
L.I. movements then were performed at the
double, and since it is difficult to do that
with a sloped musket and bayonet, the L.I.
carried their bayonetless Brown Bess at the
convenient “trail.” The Gloucester, being a
line regiment, would march at the orthodox
“slope.” Rifle regiments observe the same
“trail” tradition as the L. 1., and, in addi-
tion, call their files “Rifleman” Blank —not
“Private” Blank. The A.I.F. will remem-
ber how punctilious the M.L. rifle regiments
were in keeping up the old custom, even with
the rifle regiments of the Anzac Mounted
Division.
* * * *
“Claude Duval”: If Hollywood has done
little else, it has revived the tradi-
tion of the courteous criminal, especially
where distressed beauty is concerned. There
was a real filJum flavor in the discovery by a
Bondi (N.S.W.) housemaid of a well-dressed
youth busily “ratting” her bedroom. He had
her wristlet watch on, and when she de-
manded it he returned it politely, adding as
an afterthought that he was looking for food.
Further polite conversation ended with the
youth emptying his pockets of various odds
and ends he had souvenired, and taking his
departure with impressive courtesy. It
was not discovered till later that the charm-
ing stranger had not strained his good breed-
ing to the extent of returning a roll of notes
he had collected in another room.
“Lao-dah” : The postman delivered a letter
to Mrs. T. H. Sarovich, 77 Beach-street, Port
Melbourne, the other day which had been
years on the way. No blame attaches
to on this occasion. The note
was put into a bottle and slipped into the
Indian Ocean, near Colombo, by a grateful
soldier who had just sampled one of the
parcels which the lady used to hand to the
troops as they marched past her shop on the
way to the wharves. The bottle, in an effort
to reach Port Phillip, stranded on the shores
of Spencer’s Gulf, S.A.
* * * *
“Mars”: “Ex-Dig.” (B. 10/2/’27) tells of
a hero who enlisted nine times and never
left Australia; a youngster of my acquaint-
ance got to the front without ever enlisting.
In 1914 he volunteered for home service, and
being too young was given a job at Keswick
(S.A.) Hospital. In 1916, with his dad's
consent, lie was transferred to a unit in Mit-
cham camp without the formal requisites of
an ordinary enlistment. Landing in France,
lie joined up with my crowd, and I remember
one day in our dug-out, during Fritz’s daily
strafe, the youngster propounding the pro-
blem : “What could they do to me if 1
nicked off? You know I never took the oath
of service.” He saw the whole business
through, and on liis return to Australia in
1919 was discharged “owing to the cessation
of hostilities.”
“Cro”: Have never seen British Navy
traditions knocked endways by the imposing
ceremony of “piping the side” being per-
formed for a mere lieutenant; but I have
seen other things that would be more suit-
able at Hollywood. Once when I was an
insignificant Tiffy we were at fleet
manoeuvres, and the port-side main circulat-
ing engine refused duty with a seized bear-
ing. I had to cross the quarter-deck to get
to the workshop for tools. The first lieu-
tenant nearly had a fit. “Good God, man!”
he shrieked, “the flagship is alongside—and
you in overalls on the quarter-deck! Get
down below. The Admiral might see you.”
I had a w T eek’s leave stopped, and 1 still
shudder to think what might have happened
if the Admiral had seen me.
* * * *
“The Undertaker’s Assistant”: Cabled
that London undertakers nowadays remove
corpses from fashionable hotels in coffins
which are disguised as settees, so that the
glorified pubs will not suffer from the.
Reaper’s visit to the premises being unduly
advertised. Some such subterfuge is often
employed in Australia. A client of my boss
died in the Hotel Pomposity, and out of
deference for the feelings of the proprietary
the coffin came out masquerading as a cottage-
piano—deceased was a short man. The
mild deception probably started in the
expensive private hospitals. To obviate
glaring evidence that patients have died on
their hands, these used to be invariably
equipped with side-entrances, from which
dead bodies were unobtrusively spirited
away during the night. Then some enter-
prising ghoul struck the idea that hotels
and boarding-houses would be glad of having
their dead removed with the minimum of
publicity. I know a long box marked as
if it contained a new kitchen range which
lias done service in a multitude of places.
UR.
[FOR THE BULLETIN. ]
“Complete manicure sets and vanity bags fitted
with aids to beauty, akin to those used by modern
flappers, have been found in a graveyard near Nebu-
chadnezzar’s tomb at Ur, in Upper Mesopotamia. An
expedition from the British Museum places the date
of the beauty equipment at 3000 b.c.”
Ho! wowsers for ever lamenting
As if ’twere a practice that’s new
The primping and painting and scenting
Of Doris and Elsie and Lu,
Have done! Why, the powder that vexes,
The lipsticks your anger that stir,
If hardly as old as the sex is
Which prey by such ’lurements annexes,
At least are as ancient as Ur.
From plains where old Abraham tended
In state patriarchal his flocks,
Where Nebuchadnezzar the splendid
Flopped down to eat grass like an ox
Though date-palms around him were fruity,
Antiquaries grave disinter
Proof certain that many a “cutie”
Had nought about adjuncts to beauty
To learn in primordial Ur.
In ferries that cross the Euphrates
She sat, you may bet, with her beau
And her bag of brand-new vanitates
Some centuries fifty ago.
Though they may have been shy on boronia
There was spikenard in plenty and myrrh
In the markets of old Babylonia
For the Mesopotamian Sonia,
The She who was petted in Ur.
Ho! flapper whose flipper so frequent
In that dainty receptacle dips
For the charm that makes noses more piquant
And the cherry that reddens the lips,
You may scoff at their strictures plebeian,
Should the heiress of ages demur
To do what the clyner Chaldean
Indulged in, a liberal iron
Ago, in the city of Ur.
N.S.W.
T. THE R.


“Pick”: Not long ago there
was a brisk controversy in The
Bulletin as to whether pre-
birth maternal impressions could
effect the coming offspring.
Proof that it can is available
at National Park, N.S.W., and
that of a sort to satisfy the most
incredulous. In this case, the
mother, while on a trip by
motor, was much perturbed by
her husband unsuspectingly
seating himself upon a lump of
waste saturated with motor-oil,
and thus ruining his white flan-
nel pants with an indelible
grease smudge. She upbraided
him for his carelessness, and he
playfully whirled a tent rope
around her, which in being-
dragged chafed her ankle. When
baby came along some time later
it had on its right buttock a
brown blotch —the exact coun-
terpart of an extensive grease-
spot, and a reddish ring en-
circling its left ankle that
resembled a rope scorch. Tin 1
child is now a year old, but the
birthmarks are as plain as ever.
* * *
“Iford” : Winston - Churchill’s
war-book, taken by and large,
should be read with more in-
terest in Germany than any-
where else. The German has
hardly had a chance before to
learn, on the authority of a
man in the inner counsels of
the A llies, how near he was to
winning the war more than
once; in fact, how he couldn’t
have lost it if he hadn’t dragged
in Britain by violating Belgian
neutrality, and how he could
have imposed his own terms on
France when Russia crumpled
up if he hadn’t brought U.S.A.
into the rough-up by submarine
frightfulness. And he will
doubtless read with special in-
terest —Churchill was Minister
for Munitions from 1917 on-
wards —how near France was
to throwing up the sponge in
the summer of that year. M.
Painleve, French ex-Minister for
War, makes some attempt to
discount Churchill’s picture of
entire French regiments revolt-
ing and starting to march to-
wards Paris by contending,
though that admission in itself
is sensational enough, that there
was “only a vague tendency
(hat way.” Also he maintains
with a sort of pride that dis-
cipline was re-established with
only 23 executions. But he re-
frains from saying how many
mutineers escaped the death
sentence, and how many suffered
lesser penalties. Some of these
disclosures help one to under-
stand how Caillaux, the de-
graded “defeatist,” could rise
again to high political office in
France within a few years of
his degradation. There must
have been many Frenchmen be-
sides Caillaux who regarded
their country as beaten in the
middle of 1917, and who couldn’t
but sympathise with him in the
price he had to pay for his
weakening.
* • •
“F.P.J.”: An elderly woman
cashed a cheque at a city bank
for £4O, then went to the Gar-
dens, where her husband was
to join her at four o’clock.
There was an hour to spare,
and she presently succumbed to
the afternoon’s soporific influ-
ences. When the husband
arrived and discerned his wife’s
temporary oblivion to the world,
lie transferred the contents of her handbag to
his own pocket, intending to teach her that
sleeping in a public place with £4O in one’s
lap is inviting disaster. On the journey
home, however, the pair became mixed up
with a crowd of roughs, and the bag changed
hands. It was a very relieved wife who
learned that her 40 winks had almost cer-
tainly saved her £4O.
# # + #
“Dry Land”: “X.N.0.” (B. 10/2/’27)
complains of civilian writers who lay down
(he law on naval strategy and tactics, yet
the Senior Service owes a great deal to at
least one civilian writer. This was John
Clerk, of Elden, a Scottish laird who revolu-
tionised naval tactics with his academic
theories. Clerk (1728-1812), struck by the
indecisive results of naval battles of his
time, owing to adherence to stereotyped
tactics, evolved the notion of concentrating
a superior force on one part of the enemy
line, thus forcing what he called the “melee,”
and a clean-cut result. Known later as
“breaking the line,” it had the advantage
that the ships to leeward of the break in
the line were practically put out of action,
while the portion to windward was cut off
by the superior attacking force, and com-
pelled to action against odds. Clerk issued
his theories in pamphlet form to naval offi-
cers and others, and to its credit the Navy
was quick to catch on. Even the French
were impressed, and Suffren, one of their
greatest admirals, was among the earliest
to utilise the idea, while in the British Navy
Rodney was the first to prove the theory
correct. From that day to Trafalgar it
dominated British tactics.
* * * *
“Historicus”: Re discovery of gold in
Australia. I have found a quaint claim in
an old book of newspaper cuttings. In 1899
a Mr. Hunt, a very old colonist, made the
following statement to the reporter of a
Parramatta paper:—
In the year 1851 I was staying at the White Horse
Hotel, Sydney. Hargraves was also staying there. He
had been to California, but did not do any good.
One evening, as we sat together in front of the
hotel, he remarked he thought he knew where he
could find gold in Australia. “Yes,” said Hargraves,
“Lewis Ponds, near Bathurst, is the place where I
expect to find it. The formation is the same as the
Californian fields.” As soon as he told me, I gave
notice to my employer in Sydney, and off I started to
Bathurst. It was a long trudge over the mountains,
“Dear ‘Bulletin.’—Landin' a fish in th’ crick
one day,
“An’ noticin’ an appealin’ look in 'is
pore eyes,
“I spares ’is life an’ takes ’im ’ome
** 'E soon became the pride of th’ ’ouse.—
“ Forgetful-like, 1 keeps lettin’ ’is water
get lower and lower, ——
“Until, strange to say, ’e gets able -to
do without it.——
“Gainin’ confidence, ’e useter toiler me
around like a dorg, ’e did
“ But one day ’e tripped while crossin’
|h' crick, and got
“ DROWNED !
Yours trooly, Cyril Cowbub.”
A VERY FISHY STORY.
and I arrived in Bathurst, whence I was directed
to Lewis Ponds. I was no miner, but when 1 struck the
locality I prosipected, and washed up over 17dwt. Then 1
met Hargraves. He had not found gold then, but three
days afterwards he washed up a couple of dwts. I
then intimated that I was going into Orange for
tucker, and he came with me. When we got to
Orange (on the 12th February) I missed him for a
couple of hours. He was too smart for me. He
was away reporting the find, and was thus credited
with being the first discoverer of gold in Australia.
He had been to California and knew too much for
me. But I found gold three days before him, on the
r>th February, which happened to be my birthday.
I want to see it recorded in the paper before I die,
and I will then be satisfied.”
Query: Did Hargraves wittingly jump Hunt’s
claim? After all, Hunt, on his own show-
ing, had tried to be too smart for Hargraves.
* * * *
“Pincher”: There are some kleptomaniacs
—what else can one call them? —addicted to
lifting articles which are not only no use
to the taker, but practically impossible to
dispose of. One of the tribe —it cannot be a
gang—has for some time past been stealing
life-saving reels and equipment from Sydney
beaches. His latest “swag” consists of tho
Bondi Club’s reel, rope and belt. Its absence
was not noticed until it was needed for a
rescue from the' surf one recent Sunday
morning. The things are ponderous, easily
identified, and are only used by reputable
clubs or seaside municipalities. It is pos-
sible,of course, that the peculator is a collec-
tor who has tired of Malay brass, Jap
cloisonne and katanas, or even late Alexan-
dria Jacobean furniture.
* * * *
“Herodot”: The tale still lingers in a
Sydney suburb of a mayor of the era when
an ex officio seat on the local Bench went with
the dignity. At a council meeting one torrid
summer’s night his Worship dozed while
the Town Clerk was reading the minutes.
Waking up as the droning finished, the
Mayor, who had helped to sentence several
drunks and disorderlies that morning, glared
over his spectacles at the amazed officer, and
announced: “Yer fined forty shillings or
fourteen days, an’ if yer come ’ere again
Hi’ll double it.”
* * * *
“D.C.T.”: Rc the artificial fertilisation of
sea-urchins' eggs (B. 10/2/’27), a 30th part
of one w’ill “hatch out” provided the
fragment contains part of the nucleus. A
frog’s egg can be fertilised with a hatpin,
and for many of the lower animals fathers
are quite superfluous luxuries. Delage fer-
tilised starfish eggs with chemicals, and by
altering the chemical he could produce out-
sizes. Eggs fertilised with tannin and
ammonia grew into adult starfish with six
rays instead of five.
* * * *
“Romeo”: A Westralian pastor has rather
a unique record. While on the goldfields
he officiated at a marriage, a christening and
a funeral in the same family, all within 24
hours. The marriage took place one evening.
The pledge of affection arrived early next
morning, was hurriedly christened before his
death, and buried the same afternoon.
* * * *
“Cwrw Bach”: Revenge by jilted swains
(B. 10/2/’27) ? At Howard (Q.) the young
man who had lost earned glowing encomi-
ums on his magnanimity when he weighed
in with a cord of firewood as his wedding-
present (the happy pair were not well
off). Gratitude, however, was completely
absent from the young husband's heart
after hours of muscle-rending struggle with
the knottiest and toughest consignment of
wood ever delivered in the township.
* * * #
“Jack Bee”: Notice in a Brisbane tobac-
conist’s window: —
Shaving brushes, only 1/- each and guaranteed
free from ant tracks.
* * * *
“C. Coral”: Straying cattle are not the
only danger on the Queensland railways.
The engine that hauls the sugar trucks along
the privately-controlled line from Mossman
to Port Douglas almost ran over a 10ft.
crocodile the other day. The line runs for
a short distance alongside an inlet, and the
reptile had evidently come out for a consti-
tutional. As a couple of passenger cars are
hooked on behind the trucks, pot-shotting at
crocodiles from the front platform might add
zest to the trip, and perhaps encourage an
influx of summer visitors.
* * * *
“C.Q.”: A most saving plutocrat was
revealed the other day in a Melbourne dispute
over a will. While alive he used to go into
town two hours before his first appointment
in order to travel on a workingman’s ticket.
He left £BO.OOO in consequence.
“31/5/1916”: Naval experts
do not argue much about the
Battle of Jutland (B. 17/2/’27).
It is the civilian expert that is
doing that, and the pukka naval
writer who chips in when lie
gets a chance and stands up
for Jellicoe. It is agreed that
Jellicoe might have lost the war
in an afternoon, but nobody sug-
gests that he could have won
it, or indeed have brought vic-
tory appreciably nearer. If
every German ship had been
sunk, the position would have
been little altered. The High
Seas Fleet hadn’t influenced the
war up to May, 1916, and its
disappearance at Jutland would
have made very little difference
to Germany’s prospects. Any-
thing less than its total destruc-
tion would merely have released
more German seamen for man-
ning submarines and more
material for building them. It
was Beatty who first invited
the Jellicoe-Beatty comparison
when he stated in a speech in
Paris just after the war that
he would, in effect, have gone
slap-dash at the Huns in face
of all risks because he knew the
French Navy still existed if the
< Irand Fleet were wiped out.
The. Navy never understood why
Jellicoe should have been re-
warded by Parliament with a
£50,000 viscountey and Beatty
with a £lOO.OOO earldom, especi-
ally as the latter took over a
going concern created by the
former and found no fault with
it. Jellicoe went to the Admi-
ralty after Jutland and with tire-
less organising ability fought
the submarine campaign, which
was the only thing that then
mattered, the High Seas Fleet
having been given its quietus.
* * *
“Herodot”: A cable was pub-
lished the other day about a
New Yorker who took a drink
of bootleg whisky and woke up
to consciousness on a liner in
mid-Atlantic. I remember a
shearer who had come to Syd-
ney, for the second time in his
life, with a cheque for nearly
£2OO. One night, after some
heavy drinking amongst the
hotels of lower George-street. he
escaped from a crowd of hang-
ers-on and went prospecting for
a quiet place to take a nap.
Crossing a small bridge near
the waterfront, he found a
secluded spot and promptly
curled up. When he was awak-
ened hours later it was by a
large boot in the ribs, and he
sat up to make the startling dis-
covery that the bridge he had
crossed was a vessel’s gangway
and that he was well out at sea
on a tramp steamer bound for
San Francisco. He accepted the
situation philosophically and
turned to with the crew, but it
was the best part of a year be-
fore he saw Australia again,
and ever afterwards he did all
his drinking in country towns.
* * *
“Momokeni”: A doctor sel-
dom gains kudos from the death
of a patient; but I once estab-
lished a reputation by this
means that would have made a
Macquarie-street specialist envi-
ous. It was in the Aird River
Delta, Papua, and a village con-
stable intervening in a fight had
been badly carved up with a
tomahawk. I set his fractured
jaw, and set about feeding him
with milk and eggs poured
through a kitchen funnel and a length of
stethoscope tubing. He chafed at the treat-
ment and finally informed me that my mum-
mura (medicine) was no good. “I go now.
lie said, “to sleep one night at my own village,
and that will cure me.” “If you. do,” I said,
“in three days you will be dead,” for I knew
that septicaemia would set in. Nothing
daunted, he had his friends carry him to a
canoe, and off the party went. On the even-
ing of the fourth day a party of natives
called to congratulate me on the correctness'
of my forecast. “You were right,” they said
“Koriki died in three days.” From that
time on my omniscience was never qu es '
tioned. “Remember Koriki” was sufficient
to ensure implicit following of my directions.
* * * *
“C.Q.”: Include among the firebugs ;1
rabbit. While fire-fighters at Branxhohn
(Vic.) were beating out the menace in ° m>
place a burning bunny burst from a hollow
log and plunged into the dry grass beyond
The grass immediately broke into flame that
spread over several acres.
VILLANELLE OF SUPEREROGATION.
[FOR THE BULLETIN. ]
“The word ‘obey’ has been omitted from the
.evised Church of England Prayer Book.”
Why fuss about this word “obey”
That was demanded of our wives?
They never did it, anyway.
Each spouse, on her insistent way,
Like Mister Lang, determined drives.
Why fuss about the word “obey” ?
In vain their charity we pray
To ease the gall of Hymen’s gyves—
They never do it, anyway.
But, in her hands, like potter’s clay,
Each moulds us as her mood contrives,
Why fuss about the word “obey”?
Useless against them to inveigh;
They promise, but, when hope revives,
They never do it, anyway;
While, unabashed as A. D. Kay,
The hottest comment each survives.
Why fuss about the word “obey” ?
They never do it, anyway.
N.S.W.
J. B. H.


*
&
yo
{fnsjf ds
nmnmrrwi
Yes! It seems years since I heard anyone
ask for a cigarette.
Nowadays one just says Kensitas,
which are, as everybody knows,
“as good as really good cigarettes
can be.”
Kensitas
®nsft
ys
S »A
S * E
20 for 1/6
50 for 3/9
J. WIX & SONS, LTD., LONDON.
KA2a.
“Tame”: A speedy little craft with an
adventurous history was the Ysabel, which
was burned to the water-line in the
Eastern Pacific the other day. This 150-
ton vessel was turned out in the yards of
Henry Niccol, at Devonport, Auckland, for
the missionaries; she was barque-rigged and
had auxiliary steam-engines, so that in a
gale she could log 13 knots. She was named
the Cross, but was better known amongst
sailors as the “rum” boat. The Cross
was put out of commission in 1892,
and the next year Captain W. Ross, an
island shellback, bought her for £9OO, rigged
her as a barquentine, and threw out the
SUITED HIM FINE.
OLE FLAME: “I expect that jealous husband
of yours would he wild if he saw us
dancing together.”
SITE: “He just would.”
OLD FLAME: “Goodo! Then we won’t dance
we’ll just sit it out together.”
engines; finally he pulled out 100 tons of
pig-iron ballast and sold it. The under-
writers reckoned this was tempting Pro-
vidence, and refused to cover him, but
for 22 years the old seadog poked in and
out of the M.L.-Pacific runs without ever
touching a reef, and several times riding out
hurricanes that compelled steamers to put
back to port. In 1914 the Ysabel was sold
to a Wellington firm, and went as far afield
as ’Frisco for war cargoes. In 1925, after
she had rotted several years in Auckland
Harbor, a French firm took her to the Tahiti
run; and now. after 53 years with her origi-
nal kauri deck, she has gone up in smoke.
Oifce the little sailer walloped the Union Co.’s
Taviuni from Ilaapai to Vavau; on another
trip she cut out the distance from Tahiti
to Auckland in 15 days.
“Rob P.”: A Brisbane detective recently
had to ring up headquarters for his mates to
come and release him from liis own hand-
cuffs. In attempting to arrest two men
whom he caught stripping an unoccu-
pied house of its fittings, he was
attacked and knocked out with a
waddy. When he recovered conscious-
ness he found himself manacled with
his own darbies. IBs assailants had
vanished —and the key with them.
“Ben Gun”: I once occupied a
room in a “residential” that was
not aggressively respectable, and
when the landlady
went to the pic-
tures I used to sit
in the office and
look after the joint.
One sw e 1 t e ring
evening a lady
arrived dressed in
a sealskin coat.
She also wore a
black eye and a
cut lip. She opened
her furs sufficiently
for me to see that
most of the gar-
ments underneath
were torn to rib-
bons, and asked if
she could have a
room for the night.
“I’ve had a few
words with me hus-
band,” she added in
explanation of her
appearance. “See
what lie’s done, the
coward, and I’m
sure no man ever
had a better wife
than I’ve been to
him.” I told her
mendaciously that
the place was full
up, and suggested
that she should go
back and make it
up with her old
man. She re-
jected the sugges-
tion, however. “It’s
no use me goin’
home, dearie, not
now nor never. Be-
cause the last thing
I did before I came away was to burn the
blasted house down.”
* * * *
“Feng-Shui” : Apropos “New Gold Moun-
tain,” not “Second Gold Mountain,” being
the name used by Chinese to denote Aus-
tralia (B. T7/2/’27). The belief _ that
mines, like cherry-trees, are practically
inexhaustible is an ancient superstition
in the Flowery Land, where it is _ popu-
larly supposed that if a tired mine is
left alone for a while the coal, gold or iron
will grow again. Native companies have
even been known to close their pits for a
few months to give the theory (and the
mineral) a chance. The persistence of this
article of faith may partly explain why
Chinamen still return again and again to
old mullock-heaps and deserted holes where
the Australian has long abandoned all hope
of finding anything payable.
* * * *
“ J.A.8.F.”: During the course of road-
widening operations at Glcnorchy (Tas.),
recently, part of an old graveyard was
resumed. One grave opened contained,
according to documentary and other evi-
dence. the remains of a man, his wife and
two daughters; the last to be interred was
the old man, who died of cancer 28 years
ago. The strange thing is that only three
sets of remains were found, and the sur-
viving daughter is convinced that body-
snatchers are responsible; she has an idea
that, her father having died of cancer, his
remains would have had a special interest
for the class of doctor who used to subsi-
dise persons like Jerry Cruncher to bring
them subjects. To me the occurrence is of
more interest as having raised the point—
does cancer accelerate the dust-to-dust
process ?
* * * *
“Triple Bob Major”: Sydney Uni. will
have its carillon very shortly, but unless some
very affluent and enthusiastic music-lover
(like Madame Melba, say) comes along with
a thumping donation it looks as if the bells
will have to struggle along with a makeshift
home in the present clock-tower. Hardly
had the roar of peppery professors and con-
troversial campanologists on the campanile
question died away in the dailies than it was
announced that the Senate had decided to
give the campanile committee until the end
of March to collect a sum estimated, accord-
ing to the taste and fancy of the computer,
at anything between £20,000 and £50.000.
If they couldn’t raise the money in that
time, the campanile project was to go over-
board. The task would probably have been
pretty hopeless anyhow, but it was rendered
utterly hopeless by the very Scawtcli vice-
chancellor of the Uni., Mungo McCallum,
who chose this moment to butt into the
barney with the assurance that the educa-
tional institution over which he presides is
being starved for necessities, and that a
costly campanile is the last word in luxuries.
CIRCUMSTANCES ALTER CASES.
MADGE: “Elsie traits and watches for only one thing—to see
Harold down and out.”
HECTOR: “ What a peculiar girl!”
MADGE: “Oh, I don’t know —you see he’s an aviator.”
Thereby, for good or ill, the frugal Mungo
rang the knell of the imposing edifice more
effectively than a whole peal of bells could
have done.
* * * *
“Cro”: Our suburb is blest with a philo-
sophical bottle-oh who always speaks with
genuine feeling on matters appertaining to
his profession. He called the other day
on one of our neighbors, and the lady of
the house directed his attention to a formid-
able array of “deads” in the back yard.
“Looks as though you’ve been ’avin’ a good
time, Missus,” remarked the dealer as he
fell upon the pile. The lady vouchsafed the
information, possibly in self-exculpation, that
her father, down for a holiday from the East-
West railway, had been staying with her.
“My Gawd!” the other commented simply,
“I’d give a quid to meet your father!”
* * * *
“Lao-dali”: The volunteer brigades that
rush- out from Mel-
bourne at a
moment’s notice to
stamp out bush-
fires in the sur-
rounding country
encounter some
curious fatalists.
Apprised by tele-
phone that a fire
was sweeping down
on an old-age pen-
si one r ’ s hut a
couple of dozen
fire-fighters piled
into motor-cars and
poured down on the
threatened spot.
When they burst
into the house they
found an old lady,
quite 80, sitting
peacefully knitting
in the kitchen. She
said she knew the
fires were about,
but got tired of
watching the m.
And when the
young men had
done their duty she,
hoped they would
leave her to her-
self. She knew the
fire would be close to her that night, but she
never could sleep under a strange roof.
“Bill Bowyang”: Some curious intimacies
were formed in war-time. Some time back
a Townsville (N.Q.) lady received a letter
from Turkey, addressed to her son. The
writer began by recalling the invitation to
visit Australia which had been extended to
him by the Queenslander after he (the
Turk) had been taken prisoner at Rafa,
adding that he proposed to take advant-
age of it and was looking forward
to again meeting his Digger friend. Un-
fortunately, the letter came too late, as
the Queenslander died shortly after return-
ing to Australia. I know another Dig-
ger who was placed in charge of several
Turkish prisoners at Lone Pine, among them
being a young officer who has since resumed
the practice of the law in Constantinople.
A friendship was formed during that one long
evening, and the pair regularly correspond
with each other. In his last letter, the
Turk forwarded a collection of photographs
of Anzac as it looks at present, and the ex-
Digger treasures them more than anything
else in his possession.
* * * *
“C.Q.” : One pleasing function grew out of
the bush-fire horror of last year. When
Noojee (Vie.) was wiped out, most of its
residents were forced to take a picnic to-
the seaside at Melbourne.’ The picnic has
now been turned into an annual event, and
on February 14, the anniversary of the
cataclysm, several hundreds of dwellers in
the danger zone were scattered along the
beach at St. Kilda. But even then bits of
the bush they had left behind were hanging
over them in a heavy bank of smoke cloud,
and there were few men amongst the holiday-
makers. The adult males of Noojee were at
home keeping an eye on this year’s fires.
* * * *
“W.J.D.”: Speaking of Diggers whose
wives pulled them out of the ranks in the
early war years, I knew a coot called Archie,
who always explained when any of his mates
joined up that he was just dying to get
into khaki, but his wife wouldn’t let
him. Every time he spoke of it, he would
declare impressively, she threw a fit and
tore great lumps out of the atmosphere.
Then one day some of us met his missus in
the Red Cross canteen. “My Archie's so
anxious to join up,” she told them, “only his
boss won’t hear of it. Can’t you boys per-
suade him to enlist?” she added wistfully.
* * * *
“Billy See”: Speaking of lucky escapes,
here’s my entry. Back in the days when
regulations were less rigid on the Golden Mile,
the shaft openings on the Chaffers mine
were merely protected by a wooden bar instead
of the picket-gate now in use. One night-
shift, on the 500 ft. level, the* usual fool left
the bar up as he stepped into the cage. A
little later the inevitable dreamy bloke
strolled out to the plat and, of course, walked
into the shaft. His number seemed to be
ALL ON HIS OWN.
“Don't you think Jim’s just heavenly?”
“May he that, dear. I certainly think he’s like nothing on earth.”
up, and he was falling at the rate of 30ft.
a second when, some 50ft. down, he over-
took the cage on its way to the 1000 ft.
level. As the cage was descending at the
rate of about 15ft. a second he landed on
the iron cover with no worse damage than
a jarred ankle.
IF.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
•• -This would be a moral thrill that would electrify
the world,’ said Mr. Upshaw, a militant prohibi-
tionist. The thrill he described would be ‘for the
president, the vice-president and every member of
the U.S. Cabinet to announce that they not only
will never take another drink, but will never attend
any function, social, commercial or diplomatic, where
intoxicants are served.’ ”
“If.” said the back-to-nature crank,
“Our rulers all would swear
That never when they walked abroad
Their garments they would wear,
In spite of days of sun intense
Or weeks of bitter chill—
Now, don’t you think ’twould give the world
A most surprising thrill?”
The lunatic, of course, agreed,
But said more was required.
He wished to see men’s leaders, with
A noble zeal inspired,
Walk with their waggling feet in air,
Each standing on his head:
“ ’Tis only by an aspect new
Man can be saved,” he said.
“Such things as these” (the anarchist
At this point had his spoke)
“Without a smashing down of law
Would only be a joke.
If every man to all men else
Would take a knife or bomb
A perfect world might be achieved —
The golden age would come! ”
The cranks with whirling arms spoke on,
Each talking wild and fast;
But merely did the saner world
.Smile at them as it passed.
Unmoved by thoughts of wickedness
In joys that made it glad,
It drank its wine and wore its clothes,
Refusing to go mad.
N.S.W.
HAMER.


Usher’s Hotel Ltd
Castlereagh Street, Sydney.
A first-class new and up-to-date
modern hotel.
Running hot and cold water in all bid-
rooms and many have Bath de Luxe.
Automatic bedside telephones.
English and Trench Cuisine.
New Marble Bar, spacious and airy.
For perfection of service, comfort
and cleanliness, Usher’s Ltd. is un-
equalled.
Inclusive Terms, apply
MANAGER.
đ
SWCr,
o*£v4,
. 23 •StyWHEH Msair
ME
The TOPNOTCHScotcK
• y special -me rthonlorddenww
APPOJNTMEMT 2LWW&I COV. GEN._OF _ THE
HIS EXCELLENCVKj
COMMOKWIAITHtfAUSTSAUA
eg
f-CsiahCssßcd JBB3
W. Chorley
8 Co. ltd..
313 George St., Sydney
Tailors
and Breechesmakers
EXCLUSIVE LADIES'
. TAILOR-MADES. _
PERSONAL
ITEMS
A bust of George Turner, offered by his
two daughters, has been accepted for the
Queen’s Hall, Parliament House, Melbourne.,
and will be erected to keep company with that
of Deakin when the Federal legislators shift
to ’Berra. A similar offer is to be made to
the Commonwealth for the Parliament House
in the new capital. Turner’s widow, who
died a few months ago, was very keen upon
having the memory of her husband perpetu-
ated in this way, and gave directions to her
girls. “The little man in the brown suit,”
as, Tiie Bulletin used to call him, deserves
the tributes; but why should his family have
to pay?
DR. INGRAM, Bishop of London, at present
visiting Australia in the cause of immi-
gration.
While Bananaland’s Premier McCormack
was in Melbourne attending the Loan Coun-
cil conference, a story was told at his
expense. The narrator said that the w r ay
in which McCormack strove to stave off ship-
ping strikes was.to arrange that, whenever
beer was part of a cargo, it was stored first
in the holds of steamers so that it must be
taken out last. To reach the beer it was
necessary to unload the vessels. McCor-
mack’s only comment was a grin.
Readers in the Mitchell Library come
and go. Most are fairly regular habitues.
A stranger is soon noticed —particularly a
large and imposing stranger. Hence perhaps
a rather slim, unobtrusive man, youngish,
and with a keen student’s face, didn’t raise
many notes of interrogation from old hands.
He is Professor Shaun, in Sydney on a
’busman’s holiday from Perth, and using the
long Westralian ’Varsity vacation to dig up
facts in Sydney’s brown stone habitat of
research workers. Born in Tassy, son of
a journalist, he graduated at Melbourne Uni.
after capturing a few bursaries, and was
one of the brilliant youngsters who arrived
quickly. History and economics are his
hobbies. He took a post-graduate course for
two years at London Uni., and writes as a
recreation.
Leaving the Vic. Railways Betterment and
Publicity Board, Bill McConnell takes charge
of the central district of Clapp’s new train-
control system. This system, in force in
South Aus. for some time and introduced
in Victoria under the supervision of one of
Commissioner Webb's officers, enables a cen-
trally-located authority to keep in touch by
’phone with all stationmasters in surround-
ing districts and to direct train running to
the best advantage. McConnell, a 1907 rail-
wayman, lias been the youngest traffic inspec-
tor in the service, boasts possession of every
railway certificate in existence, and —best
asset of the lot in these Clapp days—is not
yet 40.
When the Fifth-Judge Bill becomes law
in South Aus., Crown Solicitor Dr. F.
Richards, who has been acting-judge for the
past 18 months, seems likely to get a per-
manent seat on the Supreme Court Bench.
In this case acting-Crown Solicitor Hannan
will become C.S. Hannan, who has been in
the Grown Law Office for the past 14 years,
has steadily worked his way to the top. At
the ’Varsity he was a good oarsman and
lacrosse player, besides accumulating the
knowledge that nowadays enables him to
write law books and lecture at the ’Varsity
Law School.
A gift of £30.000 to endow a chair of
economics at Melbourne Uni. and a £lO,OOO
bequest to Trinity College is to be the war
memorial erected by his father to Captain
Robert Blackwood Ritchie, M.C. The
remembered soldier won his decoration for
bravery in leading a charge in France. He
was killed at the Somme in 1916.
Rear-Admiral E. T. Harper, recently
retired, is the first Maorilander to attain
flag rank in the King’s Navee. He is a son
of the late Leonard Harper, and a grandson
of Bishop Harper, Canterbury’s first wearer
of prelatical gaiters. Admiral Harper was
born in Christchurch in 1874. He took his
bag aboard the Britannia in 1888, and
climbed steadily. The official narrative of
the Battle of Jutland was drawn up in 1919
by a special committee of officers over which
Harper presided. It was a painfully honest
document—so much so that it was promptly
suppressed.
Disdaining to look for a soft snap, ex-
Senator “Jupp” Gardiner has gone back to
his trade. lie spends 44 hours a week at
Orange (N.S.W.) nailing down Lachlan
pine flooring-boards, and although 60 years
of age can hold his own with the young
fellows.
Eighty-year-old Dr. Milne, precentor of
Adelaide’s cathedral, has decided to give up
precenting after nearly 40 years of it and
go into retirement with his library, to accu-
mulate more and yet more erudition. He is
an authority on Hebrew and Greek, a lover
of music, and a man without an enemy in
the world.
Robert C. Kermode, whose fortunate and
happy life has ended at 80, won his blue
at Oxford as a fellow student with Asquith.
He was the Speck’s most enthusiastic letter-
writer—there is a tradition that he wrote 40
letters every week, year in, year out —and one
of its best walkers, having tramped over
almost every country in the atlas; church
mission work and photography were also
among his passions. He was grandson to
William Kermode, who came to Tasmania
in 1823 and was given the grant of practi-
cally the whole of what became Battery
Point, as well as the Mona Vale estate, Ross,
where the family took root and prospered in
sheep and cattle-raising. Robert Ivermode’s
father built Mona Vale House, about the
finest country mansion in the Speck, where
the Duke of Edinburgh was a guest in 1868.
Archdeacon Lupscombe, who rejoiced in the
rather startling Christian names of Popham
Street, has laid down the task of stirring the
Newcastle miner towards righteousness. A
Muswellbrook native, he went through Moore
College, Sydney, and in ISBS Bishop Pearson,
long since gathered to the bosom of Abraham,
invested him with the collar that buttons
behind. As even the poorest Newcastle
curate had to sport a University degree in
those days, Lupscombe entered Cambridge in
1893 and got his M.A., to find ecclesiastical
honors waiting for him on his return. He
died at the Psalmist’s span.
F. E. Wanke, the new sergeant-at-arms
of Vic. Assembly, is a young officer who has
justified his selection. The days have gone
by when the sergeant sat in lordly style on
the back Opposition corner bench w r aiting for
something to turn up. He is now second
clerk-assistant, clerk of committees and con-
troller of the general staff of doorkeepers,
attendants and the like. Wanke was previ-
ously clerk of papers. He will be succeeded
by 11. Iv. McLachlan. Conlan, accountant,
has been made also secretary of the joint
House committee, and G. R. Webb, clerk of
records, has been given a lift in classifica-
tion.
When the Australian Workman strug-
gled for existence in the ’nineties, Samuel
D. Townsend undertook the job of printing
Labor’s first newspaper, and showed a lot
of forbearance in the process. Townsend
learnt his trade with the Manchester
Guardian, and, coming to Australia as a
young man, was here only a couple of years
before he had a business of his own, which
grew to one of the biggest of its kind in
HERBERT HAYS, one of the Tas. Senators.
Sydney. In memory of his kindness in the
matter of its first publication, Townsend
was given a lot of business support from
Labor, which helped materially to build up
his success, but his main interests were in
Masonry, cricket and surfing. He was 65
when death came.
Priminister Bruce is not popular. wfitli
Victorian State politicians. They con-
sider that he does things in far too lordly
a fashion, whether he is dealing with the
disbursement of the millions of Federal
revenue or arranging his retinue for one
of his trips abroad. There is a cer-
tain amount of jealousy because Bruce did
not serve an apprenticeship in State politics,
and irritation is caused by the P.M.’s
apparent disdain of State Frights and his
support of Page in the matter of abolishing
the per capita payments. Just at present,
too, the transition from an atmosphere of
adulation to one of criticism is making
Bruce a little fretful.
A bright star that set soon after the world
was aware of its existence was Dr. R. B. P.
Mon son, who died in Sydney last week. Born
in Christchurch, M.L., 37 years ago, he gradu-
ated with honors at Canterbury College just
in time to take a hand in the 1914-18
disturbance. After that he stayed in
Europe and studied at Edinburgh, Paris,
Berlin and Vienna, and then chose Sydney as
a good place in which to screw up a brass
plate. He won a name as one of the most
brilliant of the younger school of surgeons in
Australia, and some of his pronouncements
on medical subjects have been translated into
many languages.
Percy Waddy, a grandson of General
Waddy, who had charge of the military in
N.S.W. in volunteer days, has just tacked
some more letters on to his name: lie’s art
LL.M. of Maoriland Uni. now. He gradu-
ated at Sydney Uni., went to England and
then to S’Africa to fight the Boers. While
in the Dark Continent he got himself
admitted to the Bar. Crossing over to Maori-
land he became secretary to Speaker Guin-
ness, and later picked up an honorary mem-
bership of the N.S.W. Institute of Bankers.
During the four years of the Big Scrap he
was able to add N.Z.E.F. to his collection.
Percy has a fluent pen, and on the nomina-
tion of Gilbert Parker was made a member of
the Royal Society of Literature of the TJ.K.—
he’s the only Australasian in the bunch.
Now he’s writing a book about the Maoris
and lecturing on law at a Wellington (M.L.)
commercial college.
A jubilee of particular interest to Aus-
tralia’s oldest parson took place at Vaucluse
(Sydney) last week; the Rev. S. Ilungerford,
now 101, read the prayers at the opening of St.
Michael’s Church 50 years ago. He wasn't
able to attend the jubilee doings, having got
a little frail, but he dreams in his Mosman
home of the days when parsons rode over
parishes as big as English counties.
W i!!^ urn North Melbourne, put
up 106 on life s scoring-board before he
was bowled out the other day. He could
remember an occasion 80 vears when
Melbourne trembled, more or less, under
threats of a mass attack of Binglii. If one
appeared in a Melbourne street to-day he
might be offered a long contract to star at
the Tivoli.
“Bouragi”: I saw Micky the Finn in
Sydney the other day. Micky cast up in
German New Guinea as a runaway seaman,
but, with the years, acquired a plantation
and affluence. . He never learned to
speak any English but the native pidgin
variety, and can neither read nor write.
That didn’t prevent him sending his only
son to an Australian school. When the
youngster came back there was rejoicing and
feasting. Said Micky to his offspring, as
he seized the carving-knife and -fork: “What
name you bin like it kai-kai?” “Some fowl,
please, papa,” replied the returned one.
“What name that fella talk?” demanded his
indignant parent. “You think it I bin
spendem money belonga me sendem you
skula, you make it talk all same that fashion.
What for you no speak it the Inglis,
all same your poor pappu?”
Professor W. A. Osborne, who this year
becomes Dean of the Faculty of Medicine
at Melbourne Uni., is a man with more than
one string to his bow. There is a story that,
when applying for a professorship in this
country 20 years ago, he tossed up to deter-
mine whether he would go for physiology
or English literature. Physiology won ; but
Osborne, while still occupying its chair, is
a recognised authority on literature, Red
Indians and boxing. He has published some
poems and a biographical study, and is
given to oratory.
Old Tasmanian memories revived when the
news of the passing of Sister Mary Ignatius
Murphy was received. In 1866 Archbishop
Murphy, of the Apnle Isle, made an appeal
for nuns in the Irish convent of which his
sister, Mother Mary Xavier Murphy, was
rectress. She, with the just-dead nun and
two others, volunteered, and they sailed from
the Cove of Cork in the Empress in July,
1866; two other dead Australian bishops—
Quinn of Bathurst and Murray of Maitland
—were also in the Empress. Sister Ignatius
returned to Dublin, and, having seen all the
others go, has just died, aged 88 years, 66
of which were spent in the convent.
A simple notion in the matter of under-
ground cable-laying, and one that is expected
to solve a lot of the Maoriland Telegraph
Department’s troubles, is the invention of
a Fernlander named J. G. Kirby. In
essence the thing is a heavy plough, to the
hinder end of which the cable to be laid is
attached. Practical trials have proved the
value of the device, which lays a line almost
as quickly as a military field-telegraph can
be strung. The department has bought the
patent rights, and expects to make money
out of other countries in the matter of royal-
ties. The fly in the ointment is that the
Kirby cable-layer can’t be used in cities,
where gaspipes and concrete kerbings con-
stitute obstacles.
HE : “There's an awful lot of girls who
don’t MANT to get married."
SHE : “How do you know?”
HE : “ I’ve asked them.”
Mrs. Merriman, of Merryworth, lass, dead
at 80, was the wife of a man who established
pride in the wool clip as a family tradition.
One of the events of the wool season in
Sydney for decades has been the arrival ot
the Merryworth clip. Buyers who cable to
any part of the world “Secured some Merry-
worth” have no fear that they will not be
understood.
BY ANY OTHER NAME.
[FOR THE BULLETIN. ]
“The ton most popular names in America are
John, William, James, Charles, George, Thomas,
Henry, Robert, Joseph and Edward.”- — Arcus.
Lord, how our fond illusions fly !
Before the statistician’s blast
Our dearest notions trembling die,
Our colors flutter from the mast!
With tried and, 1 thought, truthful pen
I’ve named you Hiram, Gideon,
Zacehary, Obadiah, when
Your name was Bill, or, maybe, John.
No more can Hezekiah K.
Or Phineas adorn my page;
Farewell to Jeremiah J.,
A George or Thomas takes the stage.
Charles, Henry, Robert, Edward, Joe,
How weak a choice awaits my whim!
And, hang it, how’s the world to know
I mean a Yank if I call him Jim?
A wistful thought within me stirs
That lifts me from the hopeless dust;
Perhaps the statistician errs,
As even statisticians must;
If not, when in my next romance
From U.S.A. I lift the lid,
Two characters alone I’ll chance—■
One I’ll call “Bo,” the other “Kid!”
For folk in Labrador and France,
In warm Penang and chill Penzance,
All, all may gather at a glance
The habitat of “Bo!” and “Kid!”
VICTORIA.
HASEN.


Twenty Points of Superiority Built into
Cletrac Thirty
This shows parts, design and
construction of plain bearing
lower track wheel.
Rear view of iCletrac 80,
showing attachment of power
take-off and belt pulley.
<tr
mmm
mmm,
Engine efficiently
cooled by pump cir-
culation. Radiator
capacity, 6 M gallons.
Fly ball
type governor.
Easily adjustable
belt tightener.
Only four points outside the
motor and transmission that
are not taken care of by the
“Snap” System (one oil cup
on magneto; one point on
clutch; one grease cup on
each front wheel).
Track shoes and detach-
able grouters of high
manganese steel.
Safety release spring allow-
ing for even tension and
relieving strain on frame
and tracks.
Unit power plant sup-
ported by semi-elliptical
springs.
Composition automobile
type steering wheel.
—i
mm m | n,
■I
Snap lubrication
system.
Il
iT
V-lm
Comfortable
bucket type seat
mmm
Extra heavy
steel fenders.
a
to
mm
Driving gears enclosed
in extra heavy housing.
'•v:
mm
Sprocket wheels are cast
steel with renewable
m
Cover over the “Snap” oiling
leads which are completely
enclosed in a hollow malleable
iron side frame, yet easily
accessible by removal of
cover.
* HHi
in
■:■
***«
'sail
Scarifying.
Pulling Trees.
■ ■
.j
- -
.. r
Grading.
Simple-Economical—Dependable
CLETRAC THIRTY is extremely simple and
accessible. Adjustments and replacements are
easily and quickly made. All units are designed to
facilitate the making of replacements and adjustments
in the field without disturbing the entire assembly.
LOW COST POWER.
Cletrac Thirty requires the least time and attention of any tractor built
to prepare for the day s work, as well as to keep running the full
number of hours without a stop. It is ready in ten minutes’ time. There
are only four grease-cups on the entire tractor. And all of the plain
bearing lower track wheels are perfectly lubricated — at the push of a
plunger. The "Snap” oiling system, an exclusive Cletrac feature, is
operated while the tractor is in motion. No time out for oiling.
Another big time-saver is the fact that there are no daily, weekly or
monthly adjustments necessary on the lower track wheels, rear or front
sprockets. Complete dust-proof construction thoroughly protects all
driving parts, thus prolonging the life of the tractor.
POSITIVE TRACTION—NO POWER WASTED.
Crawler construction providing maximum ground contact is the basic
reason for the outstanding efficiency of Cletracs. The full pulling power
generated by the motor is transmitted to the draw-bar by means of
two broad power tracks which give Cletrac Thirty 1800 square inches
of ground contact. This minimises slippage and “digging in and the
consequent waste of fuel that is met with in other types of tractors.
Cletrac power is working power —thoroughly efficient power in every
sense of the word. It is no wonder that this strictly modern tractor
handles the heaviest work with ease at surprisingly low fuel, oil and
up-keep cost. It is built right for the work it is designed to do. Workman-
ship of the highest order and quality materials, combined with modern
tractor engineering, have produced strength, endurance and power
efficiency hitherto unattained in tractors of similar rating.
THE CLEVELAND TRACTOR COMPANY,
16 Hunter Street, Sydney.
Telegrams and Cablegrams: “CRITE,” SYDNEY.
.Ditching.
$BBO
%
mgsasim
m
Maintaining.
ym
m
Full Power on Turn,
Australian and New Zealand Distributors —
Scraper Train.
Australian Machinery Co., Btd.,
371 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
British Standard Machinery Co.,
Bank N.Z. Chambers, George St., Sydney.
Traction Australia Pty.; Ltd.,
469 Flinders Street, Melbourne.
Subsoiling.
Bennett & Fisher, Limited,
Currie Street. Adelaide.
Cletrac Tractor Agency,
Royal Bank Chambers, Perth.
Parkinsons (N.Z.), Ltd.,
Wellington.
J. E. Watson & Co., Ltd.,
Invercargill and Dunedin.
WRITE OR WIRE FOR LITERATURE AND QUOTATIONS.
PROMPT ATTENTION—RELIABLE SERVICE ASSURED.


CYMA
KNOWN ALL OVER THE WORLD
AS THE BEST TIME KEEPER
ft q
SOLD BY ALI JEWELLERS
Elegant, Refined and Unusual,
“CHIPPENDALE”
SILVER SPOONS
AND FORKS
have the .same unique, artistic
effect on the dinner table as has
Chippendale furniture in the room.
Easy to clean and keep in order, these
spoons and forks are practically
sheaths of solid silver on bases of
the finest hard white metal—they will
wear for 40 years or more of daily
use.
Our prices are the lowest in Aus-
tralia for spoons and forks of a similar
quality, and this Chippendale set costs
very little more than those of ordinary
patterns. The knives are of highest
quality, stainless Sheffield steel.
Fairfax & Roberts, Ltd.,
The Oldest Jewellery House in Sydney,
23 and 25 Hunter Street.
PLAIN FIGURES CASH ONLY.
ď
Handsome Oak Cabinet, containing
Chippendale Spoons, Forks and best
Sheffield Cutlery. 48 pieces in all.
£lB.
EVER-READY
TORCHES *
The Worlds BesU
Yj.
AfMua 6««l" h * T, ‘
Writ' fie IfaMrf Uulopl
The Ever-Ready Co. (Gt. Britain) Ltd.
163 Pitt Street, Sydney
ABORIGINALITIES
MADE IN AUSTRALIA
BARNES-LINSEED OIL
* * * *
“Bouragi” : “M.G.5.,” scoffing at “native”
poisons in Java, declares that analysis has
shown them to be of the “crudest and com-
monest quality.” That may be, but a person
once poisoned is liable to be indifferent as
to the purity or quality of the dose. The
same sort of controversy has risen round
the alleged poisoning practices by Papuan
and Melanesian sorcerers. These gentry
claim an extensive knowledge of poisonous
plants, and impart it, with other secrets of
the profession, to the apprentices they are
accustomed to take. Nothing has been done
to officially investigate the practices, but
I’apua has one case of attempted poisoning
of a white official on record. The intended
victim was C. A. W. Monckton; it was just
after the first establishment of a Gov-
ernment station at Cape Nelson. The only
water available was a tiny spring, and he
and his police were soon taken violently
ill. This was later ascribed to the poison-
ing of the spring with the swimming bladder
of one of the many poisonous reef-fish in
those waters, and a local sorcerer was con-
victed of it. As late as the 1890’s there was
a notable university of magic and poisoning
on Malicolo, in the New Hebrides. Thither
came aspiring students from far and wide
to learn the mysteries, and amateurs, both
brown and white, to acquire the local manu-
factures. Even in these days, some of the
old sinister reputation clings to the poison-
ers of Malicolo.
* * * *
“Carisbrook, Jun.”: On Flinders River
(Q.) the mission natives think nothing of
humping a 1501 b. sack of flour two miles
across sandy country to the station. Four
bucks carted a 16ft. dining-room table from
the mission across to a plantation, 30 miles
away, and arrived back home next after-
noon.
* * * #
“Up North”: A much-hunted dugong was
harpooned by the Red Island (Torres
Strait) people recently. When cut up for
meat his thick hide was found to have em-
bedded in it two wooden and seven iron
harpoon-barbs, the
broken-off prongs
of several fish-
spears and a rifle-
bullet. Judged by
the fashioning ' of
the liarpoon-barbs,
this adventurous
sea-bull must have
voyaged the com-
plete coast of the
Territory, and have
been hunted by
primitive savages
as well as by their
comparatively civi-
lised brothers of
the pearling boats.
This fellow’s flesh
was cut up and
smoked into splen-
didly - flavored
bacon, his oil is
being used for
cooking and medi-
cinal purposes, and
his tusks are being
fashioned into or-
naments, but his
strong, thick hide
lies rotting on the
beach. In a plenti-
ful season the
natives grow very
fat upon the oil
and flesh of these
grass-eating sea-
cows. A mother
will make a rather
pitiful attempt at
rescue when her
baby is snared or
harpooned, and in
the effort is usually
slaughtered herself.
Among a school of
them, when the
mother comes to
the surface to
breathe, she often
holds her baby with a flipper in a manner
strangely reminiscent of the human mother’s.
* * * *
“Larrapinta”: I dodged Barcoo rot by liv-
ing as much as possible “all-same black-
pfeller” where food was concerned. I never
used jam when I could get honey, or white
sugar where brown was to be had ; I mixed
a handful of bran and pollard with the flour
for my dampers, and whenever possible added
to my menu goanna flesh, wambi-snakes, wood-
grubs, “fat hen” (native spinach), and once,
as a last resort, ants’ esgs, which I do not
recommend. The result was that I spent
over 15 years out back prospecting, droving,
etc., without a day's illness, barring an attack
of typhoid in Coolgardie; but most of my
mates, who scorned my blackfellow tucker
and saw T dust dampers, suffered from dysen-
tery. constipation, Barcoo rot or acute indi-
gestion.
* * * *
“Keg”: I hate to make “Toby C” (B.
20/l/’27) despondent, but When the
line was going through the Herberton Range
PROVED IT EVERY MINUTE.
FATHER DOOLAN: “ ’Tis a harrd worrld, Pat.”
CASEY: “Shure, ’tis us wid th’ pick know, yer riv’rince.”
to open up the Evelyn scrub (N.Q.) the
fleas assembled in millions. White blankets
became black by the morning. The only way
to get sleep was to smear one’s body from
head to foot with kerosene. Every other
method known to science, and a good many
that were not, were tried without the slight-
est relief. If “Toby C.” does not want to
be in the same condition as an abo.’s dog he
will have to go round smelling like a smoky
lamp.
* * * *
“Mat”: Since reading “Waranbini’s”
account (B. 6/l/’27) of the chap who hid
his clothes in a log just before a rainstorm
fell, and so kept dry, I have had a less happy
experience. I was in the bush some miles
from the nearest shelter when the first few
drops of rain made me decide to adont the
idea. No sooner was I in a state of com-
plete undress than the rain was followed by
hailstones —hailstones the size of pigeons’
eggs. It took me no time to hop into my
rig-out again.
“S.W.H.”: The suggestion of “N2X”
(B. 27/l/’27) that the body of a cockroach
contains some active agent akin to a drug
will be backed up by the small boys of our
neighborhood, who believe that once a cat
gets the habit of eating the insects he walks
to his doom. I have known three of our
household cats pass away in their prime,
apparently from no other cause than that
they had acquired the habit of gorging on
cockroaches. They caught the insects under
the street lamps and in the gutters at night
and devoured them. The victim of this
acquired appetite soon became emaciated,
and pegged out quietly after a few weeks’
haggard existence. What struck me as
strange about each case was that the cats
spent most of their time searching for the
insects, and apparently could not break
themselves from the desire for more and still
more. Perhaps even cats can become dope-
fiends.
* * * *
“Jesmond” : How’s this for a cat? It was
trapped at Cowes (Yic.) during the holi-
days, and was a domestic tabby gone wild.
It taped 3ft. 3in. from nose to tip of tail,
the tail measured Ift. 6in., and from tip
to tip of the ears was just over Bin. Caught
high up on the foreleg, it dragged the trap
over a mile through bracken and ti-tree
scrub. As it jumped our fence it managed to. get
the trap caught in the wire, and in its struggles
it wrenched two panels of wire and netting
from the posts. It was still too lively to
stun with a stick, and we had to give it a
charge of shot.
* * * *
“Creek”: Every bush-lover is familiar
with the blue-headed wren. Thirty years
ago, between Lismore and Grafton (N.S.W.),
I saw a wren with exactly the same mark-
ings, but in scarlet. I had never seen, nor
had I heard of, another until a few weeks
ago, when the bird was referred to by a
writing from the Northern Rivers
(N.S.W.). As I have never seen a specimen
m a museum, I would like to know whether
the scarlet-headed wren is a distinct though
rare type or just a freak in coloring.
* * * *
“Saaedi”: What “Werrimee” has to say
concerning the long hours worked by drovers
(B. 20/l/’27) may be true of cattle men,
but jumbuck jostlers aren’t overworked. A
six-mile stage per day is all they are
required to do —in N.S.W. at least —and that
shouldn’t take more than eight hours under
ordinary circumstances. Certainly in hot
weather it is necessary to get an early start,
but in such cases a midday camp of three or
four hours is usual. Drovers themselves don’t
reckon it to be hard work. As to pay, two
pounds per day is coming to be regarded as
a minimum throughout the sheep country.
With 500 free-moving wethers in front of
DO GNOSIS.
THE PUP : “ Father, does the saying ‘Alls
well that ends well’ apply to dogs?"
FATHER: “Certainly, my hoy. If your now
is cold and your tail wags you are per-
fectly well.”
you, a clear sky overhead, a good sheepdog
by your side, and two pounds pouring into
your pocket every day, you have a job that
would be hard to beat anywhere. But it
doesn’t invariably pan out as pleasantly as
all that.
THE CITY-BRED SWAGMAN.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
I’ve often wished that I could be a swagman for a
week
To tramp the open track and camp beside an out-back
creek,
To drink and yarn of bygone times in distant road-
side bars
And smoke and think ,on rhymes unsung by light
of western stars;
To pitch my tent ’mid mulga clumps along the
Warrego,
And take the risks of what mischance each angry
storm might throw;
To watch the lightning’s tendrils flash through sheets
of storm-spilled rain,
And hear the drenched sheep’s anguished bleats float
inward from the plain.
I’ve wished and wished for one clear night beneath
the hushed belars,
To dream and sleep quite undisturbed by trams or
motor-cars ;
To bake a damper on the coals of seasoned brigalow,
Or watch the flames of gidya fires burn down with
mystic glow.
I've longed to see the cracking whips, the wool-
teams strain and “scratch”
The heavy loads around the bend of some deep-
sanded patch;
To hear the distant border-sheds with combs and
cutters ring;
Then “jump” the inbound “rattler” back and to the
buffers cling;
To see the stockmen draft the mobs beside the brown
Bulloo,
Or laze beneath a turkey-bush where nesting wild
doves coo;
Or idly watch the broglas dance with graceful nod
and turn
Upon hot claypans, further west, near desert sands
a-burn.
And how the good home-folks would gape when I
told in a breath
TERRIBLE BUSY.
“How’rt ’ee gettin’ on, maate?”
“Braave and fine, m' son, hut too busy even for t’ see ’ee.”
llow “Quantas” ’planes-men rode the sky and wrestled
with quick death;
Or how the motor mail roared past with half an
hour to spare, , ’
And then I’d say in true bush style: “My oath,
they travel there.”
Now this for years has seemed to me the only
thing worth while:
To hump a bag o’er out-back roads for magic mile
on mile.
By night and day I’ve told myself: “I’ll do it!
I’ll be free!
I’’., bide my chance and seize the first sweet oppor-
tunity.”
So yesterday I bought a tent, some straps, and,
blankets blue,
A billy and a pannikin, and bluchers strong and
new.
My holidays are here. I’ve sworn to flee the city’s
ruck.
But now I find....it’s no dam’ use —/ haven’t got
the pluck.
QUEENSLAND.
ROB P.


MORE LAMBS! MORE WOOL!!
BETTER PRICES!!!
. Si
m
m
m
m
m
m
v
m
m
m
m
n
m
m
u
m
m
m
m
m
m
«
'
m
I
V -MoryZ ■?>::>
it
m
m
m
m I
m
PHOTO C
showing how HE& 1
THE SHEEP AB£
TO GET THE*#
HtGGSTTS NWTS
a
its
m
m
m
tifit
m
m
m
m
m
m
m
m
y iS:.
:
m
mm
pi
if
A
m
iitfS
giSsP
." \ '
Sfe
Hi
Mi
gBBBBB -
m
1 <M#-
1*
W
m
i
i m
i
:
xr \
V*
,*
in
, JsS
oBp k • s
■■ ■'
m
&
iii
;Se„.
■
m
HI
■H
»*•'' ■:
■
■
w
Ml
t
W^SSm
*■ .*■ -
•HBH
*
■ ;; $
N»
;;o* ..
i _
They can all be attained by
feeding
MEGGITTS
Linseed Sheep Nuts
HERE IS FURTHER PROOF.
[COPY.]
Meggitt Limited,
Sydney.
“Locherbie,”
Little Billabong,
via Holbrook,
February 8, 1927.
Dear Sirs,
I ordered two tons of your LINSEED SHEEP NUTS,
November twelve months, and' found them a great help
to my stock. They hold their condition better, have better
lambing, and grow more wool.
I only lost one ewe out of 840 last autumn lambing, and
marked 90 per cent. The lambs cut 51b. 2oz. at five months,
and the sheep cut 8001 b. more wool than the year before,
although I shore 250 less sheep this year.
My wool won’t be sold until 31st March in Albury, so I
can’t tell you the difference in price, but it will be a big one.
I have a little on hand, but am ordering more later.
I am,
Yours faithfully,
(Signed) ARNOLD W. HORE.
“The old order changeth”—Superphosphate has
doubled the profits in wheat growing; Meggitt’s
Linseed Sheep Nuts are doubling the profits in wool-
growing.
DON’T MISS THE OPPORTUNITY OF FEEDING
YOUR EWES DUE FOR AUTUMN LAMBING.
MEGGITT LIMITED
NEW SOUTH WALES—Head Office: 26 King Street, Sydney.
VICTORIA —Meggitt Limited, P.O. Box 4510, Spencer Street,
Melbourne.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA—EIder, Smith & Co., Ltd., Adelaide.
WESTERN AUSTRALIA—Messrs. Wm. Adams & Co., Ltd.,
Perth.
QUEENSLAND —Messrs. Denhams, Ltd., Brisbane; Messrs.
Denham Bros., Ltd., Rockhampton; Messrs. Gorser & |
Co., Maryborough; Messrs. Cummins & Campbell, Ltd., >
Townsville and Cairns.
TASMANIA —Messrs. F. W. Heritage & Co. Pty., Ltd.,
Hobart and Launceston.
1


ACCURATE SHOOTING
with a
COLT .22 CAL. AUTOMATIC
PISTOL.
Perfectly balanced; fires 10 ordinary .22 Cal.
long-rifle rim-fire cartridges as fast as you can
pull the trigger for each shot. This model has
proved' most useful to sportsmen requiring a
handy weapon of highest quality firing a
standard cartridge which is both economical
and easy to procure. Length of barrel 6i inches;
length overall 10J inches; weight 28 ounces.
IDEAL FOR TARGET SHOOTING AND
SMALL GAME, £8 10s.
ACCIDENTAL DISCHARGE WITH A COLT
AUTOMATIC PISTOL IS ABSOLUTELY
IMPOSSIBLE.
CADET RIFLES, Cal. 297/230 Converted Mili-
tary Rifles, Martini Action, 500 yards range,
555.
V
Gun and Cartridge Makers,
318 Little Collins • St., Melbourne.
SMOKINC
TOBACCO
Australian Agents: R. TOWNS & CO., SYDNEY.
The London and
North-Eastern Railway
of England and Scotland
Serves
Beautiful Cathedral Cities,
Seaside Resorts, Dales & Moors,
Inland Spas, Castles, Abbeys.
THE EAST COAST ROUTE
(Track of the “Flying Scotsman”) is the
Shortest and Quickest between
London and Scotland.
Illustrated Booklets describing Resorts on the
L.N.B.R. will be gladly supplied on applica-
tion to Messrs BURNS, PHILP & CO., LIU.,
10 Bridge Street, Sydney, and Branches; o
in London at the L.N.E.R. West End Office?.
71 Regent Street, and 59 Piccadilly,
TOUR ENGLAND & SCOTLAND
by L.N.E.R.
“Pfella”: I came across him sitting alone
on a seat at the Perth railway station, and
old associations with Bingliis all over Aus-
tralia made me flop down beside him and
open conversation. Casually I offered him
a cigarette, and told him to put the box
in his pocket. “How you bin likit Perth?”
I asked. All over his ebony dial spread a
grin, and liis white teeth flashed, but no
answer came. “How far you bin come?” I
followed with, only to encounter an enlarged
edition of his smile. “You down long pfella
time?” I pursued. His amusement now
nearly broke bounds. “Well, what the
deuce are you laughing at?” I demanded.
Instantly his face fell to normal. “Me bin
laugh,” lie explained, “because my bin tinkit
you bin takit me for a pommy.”
*’ * * *
“ J.D.C.”: Someone was inquiring re-
cently for an aboriginal name for his house.
I struck one the other day which was particu-
larly suited to the locality. “Dongmaron-
gawali” is the melodious moniker, and I was
told that it means “bunyip in the rushes.”
The homestead stands on the brink of a large
lagoon, and at night the booming of bitterns
and the roar of outsize frogs easily explain
why the simple savage applied the'title. A
colony of pelicans has taken up residence
there, and the owner assured me that if it
wasn’t for their services in reducing the
members of the orchestra, the place would
be uninhabitable. As a name for a modern
bungalow on some of the home sites in and
around Sydney suburbs it would be very
much to the point.
“Gouger”: Nine miles
north of McDonnell telegraph
station, Cape York Penin-
sula (Q.), is a rocky knoll
known as “Morton’s Knob.”
In its centre is a blowhole
3ft. in diameter and of un-
known depth. A small area
round the Knob is bare of
vegetation, and the rock it-
self suggests volcanic origin.
The natives will not venture
near the place, and invest it
with all the terrors of a
devil’s house. On moonlight
nights “devils” of fearsome
aspect chase one another
round and round a hole.
Those who have witnessed
the weird corroborees have
never come back, for tne
devils have snatched them
to their underground home
and there eaten them. But
when the witch-doctor is
asleep and dreams, he sends
his spirit to see what is hap-
pening around the hole. The
devils cannot harm his spirit,
they cannot even touch it, as
it slips through their claws
like air through a human
hand. It is not yet a being
of the other world, but still
belongs to the witch-doctor’s
body, and when it re-enters
its earthly home impresses
on the witch-doctor’s memory
everything it has seen, and
this the doctor in turn re-
lates to his awed listeners.
If ever you happen to be a
listener-in, and understand
the lingo, your hair will stand
on end like the teeth of a
currycomb.
“Avon”: Reference to roasting a bullock
whole (B. 27/l/’27) rouses pungent mem-
ories of similar performances in Fernland,
where the Maoris celebrate great occasions
that way. The last time I saw it done was
at Tuahiwi, near Christchurch, many years
ago. The huge carcase —it was a prize ox
—was covered with clay and roasted with
hot stones, and the stench was something
awful. For weeks I couldn’t look at roast
meat of any kind without a shudder. Since
the Maoris had no cattle prior to white occu-
pation, they must have adopted the custom
from white settlers who transplanted the
idea of whole-ox-roasting among other Eng-
lish traditions. But plastering the carcase
with mud doesn’t improve the aroma.
“Keystring”: The ox mentioned (B.
27/l/’27) was not the last one roasted
whole in N. S. Wales. At Lismore some
years later, when Bruce Smith turned the
first sod of the Lismore-Tweed railway, a
carcase was skewered on a pole in front of
HIS SLOGAN.
STEVE : “Wot teas yer idea in marryin’ ’er if yer like th' other one letter?”
BILL: “Safety first —’er brother’s a john.”
a fire behind which an embankment had
been raised. The body was kept turning
almost continuously by an attendant, who
frequently basted it from a large tray which
was placed underneath to catch the fat and
gravy. The operation, took the best part
of two days. Incidentally, free beer as
well as bread and butter was provided on
the occasion. The former was being ladled
out in pannikins, but the navvies thought
this too slow, so bumped the ends of the
beer-casks in and helped themselves to the
liquor with buckets or whatever came handy.
Then began a wild orgy, which a lot of
people were afterwards glad to forget.
* * * *
“Vincimus”: Any bushman can give the
explanation of “Coppertop’s” “raining” trees
(B. 6/l/’27). The “rain” is caused by the
micturition of countless cicadas. Walk quietly
under a tree where they are, and you will
experience only an April shower. Then make
a noise or move suddenly, and you will be
favored by a tropical downpour.
*•f• • • »
“C. Coral”: The query of “Coppertop”
concerning the “raining” tree (B. 6/l/’27)
reminds me of an incident in the islands on
the occasion of the visit of a certain Gover-
nor. His Ex., who had travelled extensively,
was being shown round, and paused beneath
a big tree by the roadside. “Ah! I see
you have the Indian rain-tree here!” he
exclaimed as a misty shower descended from
its branches; “but the foliage seems dif-
ferent.” His wife also expressed an interest
in the tree, which continued to “rain”
steadily. It was the native policeman who
spoilt the illusion. “Him no rain!” he
ejaculated scornfully. “Plenty fella cocoa-
nut-beetle he sit along branch, he make that
kind all time! I show you,” and he pro-
duced a handful of the black-coated speci-
mens to prove his statement.
* * * *
“,T>.D.iC.”: Crows are very fond of the
seeds of the kurrajong at the stage when
the pods are starting to open. Although the
seeds are comparatively soft at that time,
the bird’s digestive action seems to have an
accelerating effect. Oh the rotten top of
a big, old straining post I counted no fewer
than 134 young kurrajongs just bursting
from the seed, and evidently deposited there
by a crow. Apparently this is a provision
of nature for the propagation of native
plants. The same thing applies to quan-
dongs, of which emus consume great quan-
tities with similar results. Prickly-pear,
though not indigenous, is spread in the same
way. Some of the native plants, such as
the wattle, lie dormant until the hard outer
coating is cracked by fire, but for the pro-
duction of kurrajongs I recommend the crow.
# * * *
“Cog”: To date all attempts to destroy
flying-foxes with gas have proved failures.
Queensland banana-growers, during the last
dry spell, when scrub fruits were scarce, had
a bad time, and experiments were carried
out with poisonous gases, but they did
not prove effective. The poisoning of
fruit in orchards and the laying of baits
were too dangerous to other life to be con-
sidered seriously. Explosives were found
to be no good, and an elaborate attempt to
electrocute the flying-foxes proved a com-
plete failure. Flame guns were imported
from England, and found to be fairly effec-
tive but dangerous to the operator.' Indi-
vidual investigators have experimented with
the infection of fatal diseases, and have
claimed success. Samoa was supposed to
have exterminated the foxes by infecting
them with cultures of the bacillus typhi
murium, known as flying-fox typhus. The
Samoan authorities, however, do not, verify
this, and inquiry shows that the islands
are still infested and a great deal of damage
is still done by the pests. Further considera-
tion is being given to the question by the
Bananaland Government’s experts, and there
is hope that the germ theory will be tested.
Meantime, a bonus of threepence a head and
organised shooting parties are the methods
relied on.
* # * «
“Pills”: I’m backing “Nella Ray” and
“James” (R. 13/l/’27) in the washing-soda
stakes. At our little Blue Mountain retreat
(N.S. W.) we had a mandarin-tree which was
ready for the tire-lieap. As our visits were
too infrequent to do any systematic garden-
ing, we decided to root it out on our next
week-end visit, and had already started on
the job when an old swaggie appeared for the
usual bit o’tea and boiling water. While wait-
ing for the kettle to boil he inquired in a
friendly way what we were doing. “Why
don’t you give ’er a coupla pounds of washin’-
soda? That’ll fix ’er.” He looked such a
queer old bird that we only smiled; then, as
it was a hot morning, we thought we
would give ’er the soda. That’s over two
years ago, and nowadays that tree bears
as fine fruit as you could wish for.
* * * *
“Gouger” : Billy Turnbull is pioneering a
cocoanut plantation on Hicks Island, one
of the little-known Home Group. His white-
painted mansion rests on piles reached by
the "waves at the highest tides. One, still
night lately his 30 muscovy ducks upon the
beach clamored an alarm. Bill sprang from
his bunk and leaned over the balcony. In
the moonlight a 16ft. alligator leered up at
Billy’s rifle-barrel. Billy fired twice, reckon-
ing that two bullets point-blank from a ser-
vice rifle would kill any ’gator. He ran
outside. The ’gator lay motionless, sur-
rounded by hysterical ducks. The fowlyard
cackled applause. But the ’gator suddenly
became electrified. Bill fell over himself
dodging the swoosh of its tail. Ten fat
ducks were flattened, and four were flipped
out on to the bay. Bill beat, the ’gator by
a nose to the kitchen door. He had a misty
realisation of snapping teeth and a sharply-
bitten-off yelp from a dog. He did not know
until morning that the dog had tackled a
second ’gator. Shaken a bit, Bill raced to
the balcony and tore open a packet of cart-
ridges. The ’gator leisurely scoffed the
ducks, pausing for an occasional grunt as
a bullet ricochetted off his knobby back.
Bill felt a bit uneasy, but not having a
Mills bomb, crawled back to his bunk. In
the morning the dog’s head, the missing
ducks, the empty cartridges and the ruin
of the kitchen steps assured him that the
whole business was not a dream.
HUNGRY WORK.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
There’s a clatter in the kitchen and a bustle and
a din,
For it’s twelve o’clock gone over, and the men are
coming in
From the liayfield—sunbrowned toilers, strong of arm
and hard of hand,
With the nonchalance of every man who works the
stubborn land.
Now they gladly seek the kitchen to refresh the man
within;
For it’s hungry work is stackin’, an’ it’s steady
cartin’ in.
In a flutter there is Mary darting, flying, to and fro;
She is laying cups and saucers, with her pretty face
aglow.
It. is “Mary, strain the ’taters! Now, don’t let
that custard boil!
Miss Flighty, mind what you’re about, you’ll let the
gravy spoil!
From the dairy run and fetch me cream and butter
■ —plenty, mind !
For it’s hungry work is stackin’, pitchin’ sheaves
against the wind.”
This is mother’s proudest moment, fruit of all her
morning’s toil;
And she beams a happy greeting on each tiller of
the soil.
“Sit there, Jim, right next to father; you, Bill Casey,
over there.
On the form there, Jack, with Archie (Mary, fetch
another chair!).
Now, then, father, carve the mutton; give them
bigger helpings, do!
For it’s hungry work is stackin’, sewin’ bags an’
strippin’, too.”
They get busy, mum and Mary, handing round
delicious things,
Piles of creamy, mashed potatoes, golden marrow fit
for kings.
There are pies that melt like snowflakes, spongy
bread, their mother’s boast,
And the black tea of the bushman, fit to drink a
royal toast.
There are cookies, light as feathers—how they vanish
one by one!
For it’s hungry work is stackin’ in a fierce and
glaring sun.
And our Mary has her problem as she hands the
viands round,
Half her heart is set on Archie, strong and fine, and
weather-browned;
But he’s slow, and awful steady, and Bill Casey’s
eyes are blue,
And his heart is light and merry, and she wavers
twixt the two ;
But her service never slackens, and her heroes eat
away;
For it’s hungry work is stackin’, turnin’ sheaves
an’ cartin’ hay.
UNPLUMBED DEPTHS.
“There goes Long-hacked Mike—’e's a deep ’un, if
yer like.”
“Deep ain't the word fer it—why, ’e simply can’t get
full!”
Father skites of giant haystacks that he built in
days gone by ;
There’s a yarn about a fellow pitching sheaves that
hit the sky.
Barney Roach, who drives the header, chips about
the crops that grew
On his father’s old selection ’fore the drought of
nineteen-two.
And it’s “Stoke up, boys!” roars father; “Alary isn’t
watehin’ you ;
And it’s hungry work is stackin’ —more you eat
th’ more you’ll do!”
There’s a clatter in the kitchen and a bustle and
a din,
They are washing up the dishes—mother wields the
rolling-pin.
Then the dinner’s rush is ended, kitchen clean and
swept once more;
And the women start all over sending lunches out by
four.
Though the kitchen’s hot as Hades, though they toil
from morn till night,
“Oh, it’s hungry work is stackin’!” is the thought
that keeps them bright.
So there’s cheers for mum and Mary from each
honest harvest hand —
Come, join in, you merchants, shippers, all who
batten on the land!
Do they ask for higher wages when the season
doesn’t pay,
Down their tools, or knock off early, or demand a six-
hour day?
No! They stand behind the toilers in the work
they’ve got to do.
Oh, it’s hungry work is stackin’, but our women
see us through!
VICTORIA.
MARY CAHILL POTTER.


The Largest Batteries in the
Commonwealth.
‘AKxaAS ‘noiJjV&N-ans iM/d-ms jrriiHj
~
% ■ ~...v • “x
a
&&&&«(■**#&
The inset photographs show por-
tions of three Tudor Batteries
installed in the Sydney and
Melbourne Municipal Electrical
Systems,
Country House and Farm Lighting
Batteries, as made by the Tudor
Accumulator Co., Ltd., are de-
signed and built upon exactly the
same engineering principles as
the largest and most important
batteries for public-supply under-
takings.
Where Reliability and Efficiency
are Essential, engineers specify
TUDOR BATTERIES.
HEFFERN AN LANE SUBSTATION, MELBOURNE,
m
. ■
ill
gmm
***** '[>
'S,:
mm
Jtj
CASTLEREAGE STREET SUB-STATION, SYDNEY.
TUDOR BATTERIES are supplied
exclusively with
DELCO-LIGHT
plants by
Messrs. Warburton, Frank!, Ltd.,
Sydney.
Messrs. Warburton, Franki, Ltd.,
Melbourne.
Messrs. Parsons & Robertson, Ltd.,
Adelaide.
Messrs. W. F. & E. A. Stewart,
Launceston.
And with
plants by
Messrs. Dangar, Gedye, Ltd., Sydney.
For each of the above plants a special exclu-
sive type of TUDOR BATTERY is sup-
plied, specially designed to meet the individual
requirements of the plants.
TUDOR BATTERIES ARE
MADE IN ENGLAND.
tflUOOr ACCUMULATORS
The Tudor Accumulator Co., Ltd* (London), Culwulla Chambers, Castlereagh Street, Sydney.


Under
Royal
Warrant
To H.M.
Kin^
GeorgeV
Vintage 1917.
CHAMPAGNE
Charles Heiteck
mmiMß
Australasian Agents—
Swift & Company Limited
SYDNEY.
champagne
Q»arlfisllcidsieo^
HEIMS
U I $ MM*'***
r*G?
PELLISSON
Cognac Brandy.
lo YEARS OLD.
Australasian Agents—
SWIFT & COMPANY LIMITED, Sydney.
LIU b
s&*
\ m
BWIS6I for
Reservations.
Wentworth Hotel
Church Hill, Sydney.
SITUATED in a portion of old
Sydney, just a few minutes from
the Theatres, Shopping, G.P.0.,
Circular Quay and the Railway.
Attached to the hotel is the
famous Cafe, with its gorgeous
Palm Court, a splendid Dance
Orchestra and a sparkling Cabaret,
afternoon and evening.
Sydney’s Social Rendezvous.
lfcp cenfne of Queen s/onc/s
'eft'sft'ngutsteof 'Soc/of Life.
WM
ROIGR
BRISBANE
. Magnificent B a 11-
room. Palm Court
ar.l Lounges at the disposal of
guests and their friends at all
times.
Suites de Luxe —double and single
Bedrooms, with Bathrooms
attached. Hot and cold running
water and Electric Fans in every
Bedroom, and every modern con-
venience for the comfort of guests.
Telegrams and Cables: Lennon’s, Brisbane,
Telephone, Central 57 80—10 Lines.
(
A WOMAN'S
LETTER
SAY-
Kayser
SLIPPER HEA
(REG)
STOCKINGS
The “Sunny” ball started the rouge roll-
ing on a steamy night of last week. A
designing committee had named the ball
after the first production of the new Empire
Theatre, and the management of that theatre
and most of the actors and actresses in the
city made a grand descent on the Ambas-
sadors at knock-off time. In compliment to
the shining name of the flutter, the frocking
was of a glittersome variety. Silver and
gold sequins sheathed many a dancer; pearls
and diamonds (and rhinestones from Bir-
mingham) studded many a frock. The
blonde and shingled president, Mrs. Harry
Green, allied sea-green georgettes and silver
in her attractive raiment; Judith Ander-
son, who supped in Leon Gordon’s party,
scintillated in silver, and carried an enviable
gold and green shawl. Helen Stransky, who
must have sighed for the coolness of the.
bead and hibiscus outfit of Tondelayo, looked
almost Jane Austenish. in white organdie
over pink. Dr. Fanny Reading, president
of the Eastern Garden fete, to which the
gate-money of the dance will be directed,
was impressive in white georgettes, weighted
with rhinestones; Mrs. Percy Stewart Daw-
son looked as though half the gold of her
father-in-law’s stock was on her back in
sequins. Claud Kingston and E. J. Tait
were among the revellers, as were the Her-
bert Nelson couple, who leave for another
inspection of the States next month; and
not to be omitted is Ernest Rolls, producer
of the new piece, who brought his wife
and one of the largest parties in the room.
The real explanation of Judith Anderson’s
failure to turn up at the party the Feminists
had arranged in her honor was stage fright.
Judith wasn’t sure how a Feminist Club
might receive one who portrayed such a
perfect lady as the heroine of “Cobra.” But,
as a matter of fact, bets were being taken
in the club as to how she’d walk into the
room. Would she make her entry with the
kangaroo step which is her interpretation of
the flapper walk, or would her body undulate
and insinuate itself through the portals as
she does in the naughty frock of the third
act? Feminists from Manly, from Peter-
sham and from Bondi wanted to see either at
close quarters. A personal demonstration
followed up by a little bit of practice in
front of the wardrobe mirror, and a hundred
homes in suburbia would have been equipped
with a Cobra (of course for use on the
domestic hearth only) in addition to a
vacuum. However. Judith didn’t turn up,
and Feminists still serve behind the soup
tureen with a tranquil eye and a wifely
mien. And the home’s not torrid but cool
and serene.
Andy Watt, K.C., handed over good-look-
ing daughter Ruth to Doctor Michael Veech
at St. Patrick’s, on Church Hill, the other
night. Both bride and ’groom belong to the
suburb of Strathfield. Anemone-pink chif-
fons embroidered in silver, and one of the
wide-brimmed summer felts in a deeper tone
enveloped the vow-maker, while sister Mollie,
who stood by, wore a grey chiffon dress that
subtly crescendoed to a delft-blue hat.
Two ladies who have met and talked inti-
mately to Mussolini arrived in Sydney by the
Otranto last week. One was that charming little
Baroness Avanzo, who amuses herself with
a farm at Quaker Hill, beyond Parramatta,
and the other is Agnes Goodsir, one of the
finest of Australian women artists, who has
a commission to paint Mussolini on her
return to Europe. According to a news-
paper report Mussolini is too busy to sit
still for a portrait, so the artist will have
to transfer him to canvas while the dictator
“talks on the telephone, signs documents,
replies to deputations.” It looks as if the
job was more in a movie-director’s line, not
a portrait-painter’s.
Elsa Stralia gathered a few friends to-
gether on Saturday night to while away a
couple of hours musically. Perched amongst
a roomful of flowers which Elsa had received
at her performance earlier in the evening,
they listened to Madame and tenor Maxim
Brodi—-the two start on an Australian tour
in a week or so—in some new and unpub-
lished songs, as well as some old favorites.
If Wellington (M.L.) is ever haunted by
a ghost it will be the wraith of Theresa
Ward, born a Smith, who for nearly 40
years played a leading part in the capital’s
society. She was a native of Bluff, the little
Maoriland port that boasts the most south-
erly lamp-post in the habitable world, and
she married Joseph Ward when he had no-
thing but ambitions and ability to warrant
his future occupancy of the highest places
Fernland could offer him. She was only 17
—they married young in those days—and
he was 10 years her senior, full of the dig-
nity of being Mayor of Campbelltown, his
first taste of leadership. She was an ideal
helpmate for a climber, and they were good
pals always. The Girl Guides movement
appealed to her more than most of those
she had to take a hand in, but she was a
first-rate chairwoman of anything from a
Victoria League meeting to a coal and blan-
kets committee.
The Mitchell Library has bought the copy
of Omar Khayyam that has been delighting
John Flanagan’s admirers. The edition,
printed on hand-made paper in a rich old
leather binding, was picked up by the artist
m a second-hand shop in New York. For
sheer love he started to illustrate the beau-
tiful quatrains, until every margin exhales
Oriental atmosphere and brims with color,
though the medium of expression is plain
black and white.
Migration is, of course, the Bishop of Lon-
don’s pet topic, and part of his mission is to
ascertain for himself exactly what the Domi-
nions want, so that the Church of England
can do its share in supplying it. His speech
is linked together with a good deal of “the
red chord of sacrifice,” “the ties of Empire,”
etc., but it is seasoned with one or two
good stories, and the whole is served in a
voice here and there brittle as crystal and
with a smile mellow as old wine. The Bishop
has a head and profile of a type that would
ornament any coinage, and the spare figure
of an ascetic whose recreations include
tennis and fives as well as golf. The Mil-
lions Club lunch, which followed the Town
Hall reception, was spread at the Ambas-
sadors, with the newly-returned knight,
Arthur Rickard, presiding. Only once did
the Bishop’s speech cause a flutter among
the scribes, and that was when he described
Australia as “daughter in her mother’s
house, but mistress in her own.” The
youngest reporter grimly wrote it down with
the muttered comment that he hoped the
news editor was familiar with Kipling and
wouldn’t think it improper.
This clear steady gaze is characteristic of
Mrs. M. Bryant, who will go down to history
as the first Australian woman aviator. The
first solo flight
by a woman
was so success-
ful, her two
landings s o
easy and grace-
ful, that dozens
of Sydney girls
are already
longing to own
an air ’bus of
their own.
Captain Leg-
gatt was Mrs.
Bryant’s in-
structor, and
he and the
other members
of the Aero
Club who
watched her
first flights
were filled
with admira-
tion at her cool
efficiency. The ’plane that behaved so well
under the guiding hand of woman was a
Moth. When not on cloudland excursions,
Mrs. Bryant lives at Neutral Bay. May
Moore made the picture.
To see the Bishop of London lay the
foundation-stone of the Babies’ Home at
Havilali, the Anglicans turned out in starry
hosts (or, at any rate, in their best georg-
ettes and laces) last Friday afternoon. Not
only from Wahroonga, where Havilali stands,
did the visitors come, but from as far afield
as Darling Point. North Shore line sup-
porters of the institution were present in
force. The ceremony took place on a spot
now beplumed with wattle and gum, but of
shade there was so little that the prelate
wms guarded from the flickering glare of the
sun by a jaunty beach-umbrella effect. Seat-
ing accommodation, too, was inadequate, and
the percentage of those -who both heard and
saw must have been extremely small. How-
ever, the faithful trusted in the Bishop,
and no doubt the stone was well and truly
laid. The murmured responses to the prayers
rippled and beat on the sunwashed air like
surf on a sheltered beach. After the final
penny had flashed on the stone, tea was
served —in some cool and shady parlor to
the elect, and on the back lawn to the bulk
of the congregation.
Dr. Ingram and Bank of England mag-
nate Ernest Harvey (a cousin of our Jus-
tice Harvey) were the guests of the Insti-
tute of Journalists on Thursday of last week.
The Bishop and his companion, Mr. Ormond
Blyth, were 27 minutes late for the lunch,
owing, it was announced, to an engrossing
interview with Premier Lang. In addition
the visiting prelate sustained an enormous
Anglican reception at the Town Hall, dedi-
cated a new junior school at Cranbrook, and
laid the foundation-stone for the new infants’
school at Havilali. At Bathurst, too, he
has left his mark in stone at All Saints’
College and at Merrick House, the latter
an addition to the Marsden Anglican College
for Girls.
Manly by the sea presented a bride at
St. Matthew’s Church who might have been
compounded of moonlight and crested surf,
so silver and foamy was her raiment. She
was Janet Rees; arrayed in cloth of silver,
georgette and lace, misted over with tulle
veiling, she was followed by two ’maids in
flame and silver. Victor Forssberg, of
Manly, was the young man whom Padre J.
Ebbs empowered to share his worldly goods
with the lady. The bride’s mother, aided and
abetted by the ’groom’s sister Beatrice, later
did the honors at the Pacific.
Herewith a still further reason for the
Entente. She is Marie Segur, a French-
Australian in
whom the
amiable quali-
ties of both
nations are
seen at their
best. To show
their apprecia-
tion of the
blend her
friends are
organising a
supper - dance
at the Ambas-
sadors, which
should be one
of the finest
t e s t i m o-
nials Sydney
has seen.
Marie goes to
Paris next
month, and
will be there
two years. It
is her first visit to Europe since the war
caught her as a student in the French capi-
tal. With her was her mother, who, having
been through the Siege of Paris as a child,
was much more anxious than her daughter
to leave war-torn Europe behind. Miss
Segur is well known as a concert singer, not
only in N. S. Wales but in Queensland and
other parts. The picture. was made in the
Tlall studio.
As everybody who comes to these shores
is expected to do a bit for the hos-
pitals, the royal Yorks are to be given the
privilege of raising quite a sum by proxy.
The idea, as expounded by Hugh J. Ward
at a Town Hall meeting last week, is to
have flags printed—the Union Jack (why?)
with a natty picture of the Duke and
Duchess in the middle —and sell them at
2s. 6d. for the benefit of the hospitals. The
flags will be woven into civic decorations;
motorists will fly them on their wind
screens; they will float on ferries, punts,
public institutions and suburban verandahs.
No home will be sacred to them. Hugh J.,
wallowing in the idea, has bought 2000 and
will give them to charitable institutions,
whether they want them or not.
With nine titled ladies and three knights
on its committee, the Boy Scouts Ball timed
for the royal visit should be a financial as
well as a social success. The State vice-
reine is an active worker in the cause,
and the vi-king and G.-G. Stonehaven are
sooling the affair along with hearty goodwill.
The Army, the Navy, the Law Courts and
Macquarie-street are represented on the
Senior Committee: and youth and beauty,
headed by Elaine de Chair, form a younger
set of barrackers.
In a letter from London a correspondent
writes that the Royal Academy’s winter exhi-
bition was devoted to the sculptures of the
late Derwent Wood and the late Hamo
Thornycroft. For Australians the most
interesting of Wood’s portraits was that of
his son Oliver, whose mother was a helpful
consultant in the planning of the show. More
than one critic has commented on the undis-
guised Dutch influence which affected
Wood’s inspiration in the making of this
statue. Then there was an admirable por-
trait bust of Sydney’s old favorite singing-
teacher Signor Arturo Steffani, who guided
Florence Schmidt’s steps towards vocal emi-
nence in the days before she married Derwent
Wood. Other portraits showing the bold
treatment which marked most of Wood’s
work were those of Clemenceau, Cyril Scott,
William Archer, Augustus John and
Ambrose McEvoy. The allegorical sculptures
show less inspiration than any other phase
of this great artist’s varied achievements;
but everything he did was worthy, and com-
merce never touched him.
“A.G.M.” from Nice: Indian potentates
and their picturesque retinues are a regular
feature of the Riviera season. The Pudu-
kotas are always in evidence; the Ranee
has now left their lovely villa at Cannes
and gone to Paris. There have been few
fresh arrivals of late; the only one I have
seen was Mrs. L. Levy at the Hotel de
1 aris, Monte Carlo. The glaring profiteering
on the Cote d Azur and the dour attitude
of the natives towards English-speaking
people and, indeed, all foreigners, has had
its effect, and this is the worst season for years
The famous “blue train” on January 18
brought _ only one passenger to Nice, a rich
Irish widow, who had not troubled to ask
the prices. The through trains are generally
pretty full, but most of the passengers go
on to Italy, where the Government tax has
been removed from hotel receipts, and where
English-speaking and other visitors are
received not only with courtesy but with
kindness.
Actor Gus Neville became a father-in-law
when his daughter Dorothy, who lias been
a dancer with the Williamson firm, married
George Ikinger, of Melbourne. The cere-
mony took place at St. Canice’s, Darling
Point, and dad came back specially from
M.L. (he was over there with the Muriel
Starr co.) to give his daughter away.
Weddings aren’t a joy to all concerned.
Take the case of the verger at a suburban
church. “Careful, careful with the con-
fetti!” he implored of a group who stood,
packets poised, waiting for the exit of the
bride and ’groom. “I know you don’t mean
any harm, but that stuff can’t be brushed
out of the matting, and I’ve got to pick
up every piece like this,” and he demon-
strated by damping the tip of his middle
finger with his tongue, stooping slowly, and
placing the wet finger in a round of con-
fetti, brushing it when upturned, in panto-
mime, into a dustpan, and starting over
again. Here one of the wedding party
slipped him a silver coin—he said the job
gave him a two-bob thirst even to think of.
Miss Brisbane’s week: —
The Cran and Palmer marriage was staged in St.
Peter’s, Southport, where Thomas Neville Palmer,
son of the late T. W. Palmer, Mount Pleasant.
Dalby, joined hands with Jean, only daughter of
the Alec Crans, Southport. The bride’s girl pals
decorated the church with shasta-daisies and pink
roses. A bell, made of Dorothy Perkins roses, hung
from a delectable arch of pale pink hibiscus and
asparagus fern. The bride was in crepe beaute.
The veil had been worn by her mother, and -was
caught with orange-blossom posies. She carried a
shower bouquet of pink roses. Jean Palmer, in
lemon crepe de Chine with touches of bright orange,
’maided, carrying a bunch of red roses. The Grande
Hotel, decorated in pink and white gladioli, antignon
and fern, saw the feasting. Mrs. Alec Cran (in
black jnariette with a posy of pink roses) received.
Freda Bage, back from many far lands, was received
at the central station by Mrs. Cumbrae Stewart
(president of the National Council of Women),
Mrs. Longman, Mrs. Mallalieu, Martha Burns, Miss
Ross-Patterson, Ruth George (acting principal of
the Women’s College), Colonel and Mrs. Ray Stanley,
Anna Stanley, Mrs. E. E. Evens, D. Irving and L.
McMillan. In Hungary (she said) King Edward’s
picture remained hanging throughout the war in a
club to which he had once belonged. And she
thought the Hungarians liked the British.
The Spanish Club welcomed back to the Hall of
the Muses Luis Pares, who has been travelling in
the north of Queensland (fortunately before the
floods). Edward Decker (in Spanish) said the
number of Spanish in Queensland now was 500, and
Signor Pares had brought them in touch with one
another. The returned wanderer in his reply said a
word for the art, literature and music of Spain.
Then there was music.
Muriel Starr had a good reception and a big house
for her opening night in His Majesty’s. She made
a little speech at the finish, with her arms full of
flowers. The throng included Chief Justice and Mrs.
Blair, just back from Southport, the Mayor and
Mrs. Jolly, the Ken Dalzells, all the Cadell-Garricks,
the E. T. Reals, Mrs. A. P. Greenfield, Captain Pier-
son, A. Douglas Graham, Dr. Y. Duhig and a host
of other first-nighters.
The West End School of Arts saw the golden
wedding celebrations of the Robert Waddells. They
were married at Camelon, Falkirk, Scotland. The
decoration scheme was in white, and pipers
played the couple to their places at the breakfast
table, which had a large wedding-bell, a two-tier
cake and decorations of white and gold. Mrs.
Waddell wore black satin, and carried a bunch
of white dahlias. The old couple have a family of
three sons and five daughters. There are 12 grand-
children and two great-grandchildren, all Queens-
landers.
Ascot races had fine weather, and officers and men
from the Calliope (the men in blue and white uniform
and scarlet tasselled headgear) looked picturesque
on the green lawns, where gay summer frockings
•were in evidence. The officers were guests of the
Q.T.C. committee for lunch. Mrs. Jardine-Graham
wore black, Mrs. H. R. Carter sported Paris-tinted
voile with almond-green hat, Mrs. Cecil Palmer had a
floral georgette (on cream ground, with girdle and
shoulder-knot of ruby), Mrs. Baring-Gould wore bois-
de-rose, Mrs. Jack Cheshire ciel-blue and coffee lace,
and Mrs. L. H. Allen white crepe de Chine. Alice
Hawthorn was in flame. Mollie Gunn wore pink
silk and white. The Glynn Connollys, the Coldhams
and Stanley Chapmans were on the lawn.
Many friends mourn Mrs. W. F. Taylor (wife of
Dr. Taylor), who died on February 16 at 73. She
was Isabel Graham, of Bathurst, and a sister of Mrs.
John Jardine, of Brisbane, and mother of Mrs. George
Sampson. She lost a son in the Big War.
Lieut.-Gov. Lennon opened the new wireless for
the kiddies at the Sick Children’s Hospital. Mrs.
Lennon was with the Lieut.-Governor, and Mrs. J-
P. Peterson welcomed them.


r feggg:
Solitaire Diamond Rings
A
There is an aristocracy in Rings, and
it may be said of the Solitaire Dia-
mond Ring that it truly belongs to a
royal race. The flashing brilliance of
the exquisitely-cut Diamond, with its
many facets, cannot fail to arouse the
admiration, while the intrinsic value
of each stone is everlasting.
Illustrated here are four superb Soli-
taire Diamond Rings that are featured
in Hardy’s displays. The round,
square and Marquise shapes are all
fashionable, but the fancy shapes are
the most popular.
Five per cent, discount allowed on all
Cash purchases.
Hardy's New Catalogue will he sent
to any address on request.
hi m
HARDY
298-300
COLLINS ST.,
MELBOURNE.
BROTHERS LTD.
< 3fuzKo\A&t oP^yxlusvcc 'Jewellery
IJ6-118
QUEEN ST.,
BRISBANE.
13 HUNTER STREET, SYDNEY.
And at LONDON.
-K
No. 4
Watch
Pocket
Carbine
H
Best
Camera
Value
.Offering
BRITISH MADE
You are invited to call
at Harringtons and
inspect the No. 4
Watch Pocket Carbine
—see its fine leather
finish learn how
supremely simple it is
to get finest pictures.
A most casual glance at the No. 4 Watch
Pocket Carbine reveals its handsome
sturdiness. Unique construction and
specifications —found only with other
cameras costing twice as much or more —
make this a deservedly popular camera.
The low prices of this Carbine represent
the finest camera value offering anywhere.
Lens.
Single Achromatic Fll
Rapid Rectilinear F 8
Aldis-Uno Anastigmat F 7.7
Aldis-Uno Anastigmat F 6.3
Shutter. Price.
T-B-I ...... £2 10 0
3-Speed £3 2 6
3-Speed £3 17 6
3-Speed £4 7 6
Shutters: T-B-I, giving time, bulb
instantaneous; 3-speed, giving time,
and exposures l-25th to l-100th sec.
and
bulb
U 2
The House for Good Cameras.
386 George Street,
Near G.P.0., Sydney.
Established 38 years. Also at Katooiuba, Newcastle,
Melbourne, Brisbane, Adelaide, Wellington (N.Z.), Auckland (N.Z.).
iHastertauch
The Music Roll of Distinction.
Attractive List of February Releases.
Fox Trots.
D. 159- Sweetie Pie
*D.1594 —-Baby Face
D. 1595 —Mary Lou
*0.1596 —Beside a Garden Wall
*D.1598 —Just a Bird’s Eye View (of
My Old Kentucky Home)
*D. 1601 —A dorable
D. 1605 —Black Bottom (from George
White’s “Scandals”)
D. 1608 —Oriental Moon
D. 1609 —Any Ice To-day, Lady?
One-Steps.
*D.1615 —The More We Are Together
Waltzes.
D. 1593 —Parisian Nights
*D. 1597 —In a Little Spanish Town
*D.1600 —I’ve Lost All My Love for You
D. 1604 —Lover’s Lane
*0.1606 —The Prisoner’s Sweetheart
Ballads.
D. 1589 —I Love You, Dear
*D.1599 —My Ships. Key of D. Cto F
Sharp
*D.1602 —Chorus Gentlemen. Key of F.
C to C Sharp
*D 1614 —I Want a Pardon for Daddy.
Ivey of E Flat. F to K Flat
Operatic (with Words).
*0D1592 —Princess Ida (Selection)
*ODI6O3 —Les Huguenots (Selection)
*0D.1607 —La Sonnambula (Selection)
*0D.1610 —Semiramide (Selection)
Sacred.
*D.1613 —Hymn Medley
C Series.
* C. 858 —Fantaisie. F Minor. Op. 49
(Chopin)
*XCBS9 —Wedding of the Winds (Concert
Waltz). (John Hall)
* C. 860 —Prelude in G Minor. Op. 23.
No. 5. (Rachmaninoff)
*XCB61 —Loin Du Bal (Echoes of the
Ball). (Waltz.) (Ernest Gillette)
*XCB:62 —Caprice Viennois (Fritz Kreisler)
* C. 863 —Last Hope (Gottschalk)
* C. 864 —Whispering Willows (Victor
Herbert)
*X0.865 —Melodie Valse (Robert Billings)
*XC.B66 —Buona Notte (Good-might)—
A Day in Venice (Nevin)
*NC.B67 —Liebesfreud (Fritz Kreisler)
* C. 868 —Pirouette (Pas Seul). (Descrip-
tive.) (Herman Finch)
*XC.B69 —Grand March (from “Tann-
hauser”). (Wagner, Liszt)
*X0.870 —Valse Des Fleurs (Nut Cracker
Suite). (Tschaikowsky)
XC.B71 —Nautilus “Sea Pieces” Op. 55.
No. 7. (Macdowell)
XC.B72 —Song “Sea Pieces” Op. 55. No.
5. (Macdowell)
XC.B73 —Lights and Shadows (Novelette)
(Lee S. Roberts)
XC.B74—Moon Dreams (Novelette) (Lee
S. Roberts)
XC.B75 —Italian Nights (a Story in
Rhyme) (Lee S. Roberts)
* C. 876 —Spring Whispers (Earl Billings)
XC.B77 —T’Jours a ’Moi (Always Mine)
(Lee S. Roberts)
OBTAINABLE EVERYWHERE.
The Numbers indicated by a star are procurable in “Expression” Rolls also.
%
AVASTERTOUCH
Hand Played ■= /
r?..AVusic Rolls - =
- are the
LATEST and BEST
G. H. Horton & Co., Ltd.
Wholesale Distributors Only, 66 CITY ROAD, SYDNEY.
TO EUROPE IN 1927!
MAKE YOUR TRAVEL ARRANGEMENTS WITH
THOS. COOK & SON
Railway, Steamship and Tourist Agents,
ESTABLISHED 1841 165 BRANCHES.
PASSAGES Booked by All Lines at Tariff Rates.
Monthly Sailing List Issued Post Free.
TRAVELLERS’ Issued in Sterling and Dollars, in Notes
CHEQUES of £5, £lO, £2O and $lO, $2O, $5O, $lOO.
INCLUSIVE Tours arranged, including Hotel, Sightsee-
INDEPENDENT ing and Excursions. Any Route. Class of
TRAVEL Hotel and Travel optional. Itineraries
Prepared.
INCLUSIVE TOUR IN EUROPE 50 Days for £BO
Pleasure Cruises to the Norwegian Fjords.
Motor-coach Tours in Great Britain.
ESCORTED TOURS IN EUROPE,
Visiting
ITALY - - SWITZERLAND - - FRANCE - - BATTLEFIELDS
BELGIUM - - HOLLAND - - and GREAT BRITAIN.
Fares include
Travel, Hotel, Meals while Travelling, Transfers between Stations
and Hotels, Sightseeing, Excursions, Gratuities, Fees, Guides and
Experienced Conductor.
Automobile Tour de Luxe from NAPLES .... 49 days, £396
Select First-class Tours from MARSEILLES .... 71 days, £302
Select First-class Tours from NAPLES 66 days, £283
Popular Escorted Tours from MARSEILLES ... 53 days, £179
Popular Escorted Tours from NAPLES 48 days, £166
Moderate Escorted Tours from LONDON 46 days, £124
DETAILED PROGRAMMES ON APPLICATION.
Monthly “TRAVELLER’S GAZETTE” Post Free.
THOS. COOK & SON
MELBOURNE:
269 Collins Street.
SYDNEY:
Martin Place,
(Opp. G.P.0.).
ADELAIDE:
49a Grenfell Street.
AUCKLAND:
N.Z. Insurance Building,
Queen Street.
WELLINGTON;
Government Life Building
(Next G.P.O.)*


SYDNEY.
The Finest Restaurant and Dance
Rendezvous in Australasia.
PATRONAGE CONTINUALLY INCREASING.
Capacity: Dining and Supper Dances up to IDOO.
For Wedding Receptions, Banquets, Dining and
Supper Dances, inquiries to Manager.
Mon., Tues., Wed., Fri., Dining de Luxe, 7.30,
10/G ; Suppers, 10.30, 5/6. Value and satis-
faction without equal. No charge for three
hours’ dancing on satin-smooth spring floors—
a new thrill of real delight.
Thurs. and Sat. Late Gala Nights., Continental
Dinner from 7.30, 21/-. Suppers, 10.30. 12/6.
This evening in London costs £2/2/- upwards.
PEERLESS ORCHESTRA OF TEN.
Bewitching Cabaret, afternoons and evenings.
Delightful Afternoon Teas, 3.30 to 5.30, 5/-
Two hours’ entertainment of Sheer Delight.
Order Wines before 6 p.m. Ring M.&666.
FI
r
m
m
-i===saaaa
SttsuiowiAnxift
Fruit 8 Walnut Cake
A cake dainty of unrivalled delicious'
ness.
Its choice ingredients include walnuts
and a rich assortment of fruits such as
cherries, sultanas, and best quality
citron peel.
The unique circular shape
permits of easy cutting with-
out waste.
In Attractively-
Ornamented Tins
of 31b., 41b., 51b.
All Grocers.
THE
WOMAN’S MIRROR
Published Every Tuesday
Is the most popular 64-page
woman’s paper published in
the Commonwealth. It features
everything a woman ought to
know. Once you read it you
will never be without it.
Its up-to-date weekly pattern
is free for the asking.
Published by
The Bulletin Newspaper Co.,
214 George Street, Sydney.
Melbourne
Chatter
Buckley's
Elizabethan
Tea 'Rooms
R[?] C[?] 800[?] [?]
Buckley [?] Nunn [?]
[?]
Winter unpacked a day out of season on
Saturday. Grey skies and a biting wind
hung over Caulfield, hut a bigger crowd
than usual visited the course to see the
Futurity run, overflowing the stands and
spreading over the emerald-green lawns,
which show no sign of the water famine that
has reached suburban gardens. From the
backers’ standpoint the racing was flavored
with failure. Spearfelt, after giving his
admirers every encouragement, lost by a
length or so, and a 25-to-l outsider beat Pat
Osborne’s flying Valicare and secured the
Futurity. Manfred, despite Lewis’s efforts,
refused to budge, and Heroic was an
absentee. The dressing was of a sober order.
Most of the women were buttoned into top-
coats, but the bordered liem peeped out on
many of the frocks beneath. Even more
leg was visible than usual, for a strong
breeze played with scanty skirts when mount-
ing the stand, but it takes more than that
to upset modern feminine composure. The
G.-G., smartly tailored, arrived early. Her
Ex. was muffled in a fox choker and brown
coat, which gave only a glimpse of a mush-
room crepe gown beneath. Lady Bridges,
from State House, Adelaide, topped her faun
furnishings with bois-de-rose millinery. Her
daughter Alvilda made one of the party.
Something will soon have to be done to
limit the growth of women’s headgear, which,
like the ancient Tower of Babel, grows ever
higher. Colonel Leane’s wife paraded the
lawn in air-force blue tailorings and a
towering petunia erection on top. Her
daughter, looking fresh after the simple life
at Norfolk Island, had a pink chrysanthe-
mum the size of a saucer tucked into her
fur collar. Mrs. Lesley Macdonald sat
amongst the matrons in the committee box
looking pale and interesting in a black
toilette, and congratulations were poured on
her at the return of health. The camera
fiend hovered around Aida Tupper, a Ben-
digo lass, who struck a bright color splash
in pleated skirts of black and scarlet silk
crepe, worn with a black coatee fastened at
the front with a red enamel buckle. John
Tait’s daughter Cecil favored a mannish
felt hat, and carried a cane. Walking-
sticks, both slender and stout, formed part
of the equipment of matron and maid,
finished with gold and silver knobs of
designs decidedly grotesque. Betsy Consa-
dine was inside a mustard-colored coat with
narrow black stripes banded with black fox. A
visitor in the committee box was Mrs. W. M.
Singer, whose husband breeds racers in
Blighty. Her helmet-shaped hat of green
felt was the newest thing present, and a
collar of nutria fur cuddled round the neck
of her beige kaslia coat. In shades of brown,
nicely tailored, Cecil Maudsley was a wintei
study.
Moonee Valley endeavored to amend it
weather reputation by serving a perfect blue
and gold day for its mid-week meeting.
Despite the thermometer’s late sensational
climbs, everything in the garden was green
and lovely, and those wiio weren’t interested
in the gee-gees were able to admire the beau-
tiful collection of flowers. The sensation of
the afternoon was a floral sunshade, the
monster blooms being outlined with gold
thread. Even the birds in the air were
inquisitively attracted to it. Mrs. Wray, a
visitor from overseas, looked smart in a
blue and white combination made with a
bolero over a finely-pleated skirt inlet with
a white band. Another visitor, Mrs. Wash-
ington Singer, lately arrived, wore one of
the high chanel red hats encircled with
ribbon. Mrs. Garnet Leary’s frock was
heavily patterned in black and white, and
a sunset effect trimmed Mrs. Ben Chaffey’s
blue crepe gown.
Spring-street, which is tramless except for
a crossing from Bourke-street to Evelyn-street,
in front of Parliament House, and from Col-
lins-street to Gisborne-street, has been “dis-
covered” by motorists to such an extent that
pedestrians find it risky to cross. If the
Anzac-place and Parliament-square idea are
to be carried out effectively, it will be neces-
sary to tear up the trams in Gisborne and
Evelyn streets and do away with the short
cut through Parliament reserve, opposite the
Princess Theatre. The motor-taxi rank in
a little street on the south of Parliament
House will also have to he blotted out to
make room for lawns. At present the rank
is a sort of unofficial adjunct to a swell
pub. The ornamental high iron fences sup-
plemented by a galvanised-iron barrier
around the legislative reserve will have to
come down. Linaker. a State landscape
gardener, has prepared an ambitious plan,
and if Allan or his successor has the pluck
to carry it out, the east end of the city will
be one of its glories, just as the Alexandra-
gardens area is the joy of the southern end.
Lord Somers meant well when he rushed
from his vice-regal residence in Melbourne,
closely pursued by Captain Broadbent, to put
the bush fires out. and it is a shame that a
local paper should have spoilt the effect
thus: “Lord Somers led the fire-fighters
between Warrendyte and Kangaroo Ground.
He was clad in a khaki shirt.”
Evening gowns promise to sparkle more
than ever during the merry jazz of Royal
festivities, for the just-imported models
shine and shimmer with a wealth not of
crystal beads but of the tiniest of sequins.
Some confections are like a mermaid’s
sheath of wee scales of one color, from
shoulder-strap to skn\,-hem. Adorable blend-
ings of green, of rose and ruby, are of
the most fascinating that have caught the
eye so far. For the flapper there are some
lovely frocks of taffeta and georgette,
while the very last word in models for the
debutante is the dress that is billows of
white chiffon.
Summer idlers are hastening back to town
to pick up the threads of social activities,
for the season seems to have already begun.
Harry Sargood’s wife set the ball a-rolling
with a richly-decorated at-home. Lilies
decked in many hues were grouped artisti-
cally in the reception-rooms, and an orchestra
accompanied the chatter. The York shade ot
blue is already growing into favor. The
hostess was a mist of blue georgette and
lace, and her white hat was a pinky mauve.
Iris Muspratt showed the latest thing in
braiding in her French pink gown, and helped
Mrs. Sargood to receive her guests, amongst
whom was a bunch of members from the
Time and Talent Society, the lady’s pet
activity.
A faint blush hung over the nuptial occa-
sion of Jeanne Hames and Owen Dargon
Winter. It glimpsed through the train of
wonderful lace, and the white and silver
gown reflected the sheaf of pink blossom
which peeped shyly out from a mist of
tulle. ’Maids Kathleen Mansfield and Kath-
leen Dillon exhibited the same color com-
bination, and carried sheafs of pink lilies
and roses. The bride is the daughter of
the 11. H. Ilameses, of Armadale, and
Joseph Winter’s widow, now living at
Brighton, watched her only son make his
pronvses. The Oriental was decked with
trails of pink roses blushing in happy unison
for the wedding feast.
The Steele-Dunning knot was tied at All
Saints’, East St. Kiida. The pretty bride,
Muriel Florence, floated up the aisle on the
arm of cousin W. A. T. Davies in a billow
of lace, encircled with orange blossoms, and
more of these blossoms confined the tulle
veil which hung mistily down. Two water-
lily-green ’maids, Queenie Steele and Ger-
trude Dunning, in taffeta frocks, edged with
velvet flowers, and tulle hats, attended her
to the altar, where bridegroom Frederick
Dunning, of Caulfield, awaited. The bride is
the elder daughter of the late Herbert Sel-
wyn Steele and Mrs. Steele, of Malvern.
The maiden with the smart coiffure is
Alice Mallon, a South Australian singer, who,
after securing
the diploma
o f Adelaide
Con., came
across to Mel-
bourne for
further study.
As a pupil of
Mary Camp-
bell, of the
Albert - street
Con., she made
a success in
last year’s
operatic pro-
duction. “Eu-
rydice,” under
the Fritz
Hart baton.
She also got
some profes-
sional experi-
ence during
the Gilbert
and Sullivan
season at His Majesty’s. The stage is Alice’s
ambition, and she shows promise as an
actress, having made quite a hit as the
French girl in the Victorian Opera Co.’s
production of “The Geisha,” recently. She
is a daughter of E. M. Mallon, of Coward
Springs, S.A., and the picture is by Broo-
tliorn.
When Myrtle Dorgan glided up the aisle
of St. Pat.’s Cathedral on a recent evening
and became Mrs. Francis Vincent Poynton,
Father Burke, who worked the transforma-
tion, had before him a life picture of an
early-Victorian bride. The white satin gown
adorned with lace flounces was made with
a crinoline effect, and the tulle veil was held
in position by a chinstrap of pearls. Cousin
Alice Dalton and the bridegroom’s sister
Lilian attended her, the former in a frock
of apricot taffetas and the latter in del-
phinium blue. Hats and muffs of gold tissue
trimmed with floral sprays completed _ a
pretty effect. Afterwards friends were in-
vited to rejoice at No. 9.
Hymen beamed approvingly last week, for
there were several unitings. In the case of
Baleombe Quick and Hilary Stephens, the
prettv bride met the honorary surgeon of
the Alfred Hospital on an ocean liner going
to Europe some months ago. The notion
that Dr. Quick was a confirmed bachelor
had been strongly held by many, so naturally
the flower-decked Presbyterian Church _at
Toorak was crowded to see the crowning
scene of an unexpected romance. The bridal
gown was white georgette, all a-sparkling,
that glimmered over blush pink; and tulle
of the same delicate shade lined the Limerick
lace veil. The three attendant maidens stood
by in floral-traced taffeta frocks of deep apri-
cot hue, with orange-colored velvet hats. At
No. 9, afterwards, Mrs. J. Temple Stephens,
who wore black lace gown and hat, and the
bridegroom’s mother, Mrs. W. H. Quick,
welcomed the guests.
Lafayette pictures here a Melbourne girl,
Hilda Meadows, who gives promise as a
composer o f
music. She is
well known as
a pianist, and
she has a flair
for fitting mel-
ody to verso.
During a re-
cent tour
through Amer-
ica with her
parents and
her sister,
Mrs. Tom
Hanna (wife
of the “Dig-
gers” Hanna)
she received
more than
one manager-
ial invitation
to join hoi
sister on the
concert plat
form. In Cali-
fornia Miss Meadows signed up with the
Orpheum circuit for a while, and her audi-
ences liked her immensely. Two of her
more recent song compositions are “The
Hulk” and “A Lullaby,” the librettist
being George H. Gill. Both are attractive,
and likely to appeal to discerning singers.
The Grammar School chapel, after a long-
ish vacation, opened its doors and admitted
two of its old boys without any entrance
examination whatever to the degree of matri-
mony. A bower of pink roses was created
in which the bride, Alice Rattray, whispered
her vows to Harold Mitchell. Her quaint
pink bonnet was the commencement of a
tulle veil that mingled later on with a gown
of silken crepe; and the same blush extended
to the garb of the small ones who directed
the bride’s draperies.
The Y.W.C.A. had a full house to farewell
Elsie Hardie, retiring after 12 years of strenu-
ous service as general secretary. Suburban
gardens had been robbed ruthlessly to supply
the profusion of lilies and carnations nodding
their heads in all directions. President
Woodruff rushed back from Japan with her
Professor just in time to handle the proceed-
ings, assisted by vice-president Gato ; and Miss
Hardie, who sat on her left hand, was so
overwhelmed with the many nice thoughts
unfolded that a few tears escaped their moor-
ings into a pretty hankie. Over a thousand
girls pass through this growing association
weekly, and only a tactful head could shep-
herd such a Hock; but, though small, Miss
Hardie is big in purpose and firm in action,
and advance has marked her term. A hand-
some wallet stuffed with banknotes and a
gold badge showed what the Y.W.’s thought
of her. Mrs. Stuart Cowan, who is leaving
shortly with her doctor for a European
ramble, the Orme Mason lady and Nesta
Malcolm, from the Travellers’ Aid Society,
were in the gathering.
To plan a memorial to Mrs. Harrington
Lees, members of various women’s organisa-
tions met on a recent afternoon. Mrs. J. H.
Maddock was in the chair. Many schemes
were unrolled and much talk loosened ; but the
later trend of the discussion makes it likely
that the executive will consider the estab-
ment as a memorial of something that shall
be beneficial to young girls. Miss J. Neil
and Miss K. Shepherd were appointed joint
honorary secretaries, and Mrs. Jerram hon.
treasurer.
Grace Byron Moore gave her friends a
shock last week by announcing that she is
going to Rhodesia to keep house for brother
Carl. She is to sail by the Ascanius on
March 5. It seems likely that sister Linda’s
recital of the wonders she saw upon her
recent tour abroad has awakened the
wanderlust.
Alice Currie is shelving for awhile her
interest in holiday seaside camps for out-back
women and children, and has taken her pas-
sage by way of the Cape for England. At
the Lyceum Club the other afternoon Miss
Currie, wearing black-and-blue patterned
draperies and picture millinery, dispensed the
afternoon brew and said au revoir to many of
her friends. Her sister Edith, who lately
got back from a tour on the other side of the
Pacific, shared the duties of hostess. Miss
Currie should find plenty of new material
for her clever brush and pencil while abroad.
Keppel Palmer, who during the Strad-
brokos’ reign at Stonington, was private
secretary to his Ex., is back again in Mel-
bourne with his pretty dark-eyed wife, Nora,
daughter of Mrs. Sibbald Currie. Tin-
couple, who have been wandering round the
world, seeing Los Angeles, Panama, South
America and the Old World, hope to settle
in Victoria for some time. Their first home
will be on the Currie broad acres at Etterick.
State Attorney-General Eggleston’s wife,
daughter Jean and son Egan came home by
tin; Otranto after a year’s jaunting through
England, with some peeps at the Continent.
Mrs. H. B. Scotney. mother of Evelyn
Scotney, who sings, has set sail by the Nal-
dera to visit her famous daughter, now Mrs.
B. H. Russell, who resides in London.
Howard Edie launched a number of young
men and maidens at two new plays of
Laurence Housman at “Tlio Parthenon,”
East Kew, on Saturday night, starting un-
usually promptly for an amateur perform-
ance—not more than three-quarters of an
hour late. The regal effect of the couit
scene in “Brother Sun,” the first example
or the English playwright’s muse, was well
sustained until the throne fell over, but even
Allan Wilkie could have learnt something
from the way a turbaned file of two was
made to do duty for the Soldan’s illimitable
army, to the satisfaction of all.
The Makura will take away Clarrie War-
rington, bent on a matrimonial venture.
From ’Frisco she will go to Los Angeles,
where E. L. Merigan, an electrical engineer,,
with whom she has a date, will meet her.
Till the wedding-day dawns she will stay
with an aunt, Mrs. George Hayes. The
bride-to-be is the elder daughter of the
W. A. Warringtons, of Caulfield, and her
future husband is a Melbourne boy now
settled in New York, where the couple will
make their home.
Sister Adelaide—
As a preliminary to the Grant-Lewis wedding, Mrs.
J. H. Aldridge hostessed a party which had for its
guests the prospective bride and bridegroom, and for its
chief items bridge and music, with a speech or two
at supper. Dr. Powell was given the toast to pro-
pose, and then had to say a word or two of thanks
on his own and his wife’s account when someone
discovered it was the anniversary of their wedding.
The Darnley Naylors are letting no ground grow
under their feet in England. He is embarking on
a two months’ lecturing tour for the League of
Nations. It was his chief hobby here, and the local
organisation owes 90 per cent, of its success to hi-
work and enthusiasm. Mrs. Naylor, as keen as he,
goes with him on his trip.
From England comes news of the engagement ol
Kathleen, youngest daughter of Mr. William Honey-
will and a one-time Adelaidean, to Hugh Carson, a
British medico on the staff of a Birmingham hospital.
The wedding is to be in April.
The electrification of the Capetown-Simmons Town
railway (S’Africa) will be in charge of Houghton
Swift, eldest son of Dr. Swift of this village. He has
been in Japan on a similar job for the last four
years, and was shaken by the big earthquake.
Liberal women are girding themselves for the
electoral fray, and have had a combined council of
war and tea party at the Liberal Club, where the
prospective candidates were on view. Mrs. C. R.
Morris was hostess and she and D. J. Gordon were
the chief speakers. The National Council of Women
is getting into its stride for the year, too, and at
its opening meeting its president, Mrs. T. E. Bowman,
outlined a programme of work that will keep its
members busy.
Kingston Park, once the home of C. C. King-
ston and before that owned by his father, George
Strickland Kingston, has been declared open as a
public park. It lies just south of Brighton, on the
edge of a low cliff that gives a wide view over the
Gulf. The old house is being used as a tea-room
and hostel.
The Arthur Rymills and their son and daughter
have returned from Colombo. Passengers by the
same ship were Mrs. White (Miss Adelaide Napier)
and her small son, who spent a day here seeing old
friends.
The Amateur Turf Club had luck in striking a cool
change for its Cheltenham meeting. Mrs. W. B.
Carr presided over the official lunch and afternoon
tea.
The Powers, established at the South Australian
while the Otranto was in port, held there a continuous
and informal reception and a host of friends went
along to look them up. He has added R. I. (Royal
Institute of Water Colorists) to the R. 0.1. he already
holds; has spent some time in Paris and on the
Riviera as well as at his Bushey studio, and brings
word of a passion, in London, for “something new"
in art that is having all manner of freak results.
Alice Goodsir, on the same boat, put in the time
here with the Cecil Duncans, her cousins.
Bessie Davidson, a South Australian artist at
present in Paris, has found an appreciative customer
for her work—the French Government. Three of her
pictures have become the property of the Republic,
and one hangs in the Luxembourg Gallery, which is
seeking to secure the latest purchase also. Miss
Davidson is the only Australian woman painter thus
honored.


A. SAUNDERS’ SPECIAL VALUE
A. Saunders’ Silver-plated Teapot, daintily
engraved, “Empire” design, 35/-
Others, 20/-, 21/-, 25/-, 30/-
A. Saunders’ Biscuit Barrel, pure
Silver-plated A 1 quality, engraved
design, 50/-
Others, 42/-, 60/-, 70/-, 80/-
m
m
M
A. Saunders’ Cut Glass Butter Dish,
Silver-plated Mount and Knife, 12/6
Others, 5/6, 8/6, 10/6, 15/-, 17/6
A. Saunders’ Rose Bowl, pure
silver-plated on ebonised plvnth,
90/-
Others, 50/-, 60/-, 70/-,
80/-
m
A. Saunders’ Out Glass Salad Bowl, Silver-
plated Mount and Servers, 59/-
Others, 21/-, 25/-, 30/-, 35/-, 40/-,
69/-
A. Saunders’ Toast Rack, Pure Silver-plated
A 1 Quality, 50/-
Others, 20/-, 25/-, 30/-, 40/-
SENT POST FREE.
A. SAUNDERS
Watchmaker—Jeweller—Optician,
805-813 GEORGE STREET (opposite Railway Station), SYDNEY.
m
i ■
m
m
-
if «j§i
t ww
ttii
[ii
v L
mas
mmmmm
No. 10 High-power Universal Milling Machine.
MILLING MACHINES
High-powered Horizontal and Vertical Milling
Machines for rapid production, made by ALFRED
HERBERT, LTD., ENGLAND, who have 150
Milling Machines of various types and sizes in
regular use in their own shops.
This enables them to profit by their performance, on
work ranging from heavy roughing cuts in hard steel
to fine finishing operations, and so lead the way in
Milling-Machine design.
IN STOCK.
Alfred Herbert
( Australasia), Limited,
503-505 Kent Street, Sydney.
City TofotToUO. Telegram,: LATHE.
Branch Office, Melbourne.
TRY SUMMER FALLOWING!
hwmHH
MB
**. -
i : m
ms
mSms
■• •«•■
&§
-
Us
■
.
- : . Hl.
:
wm
■MiIPR
*4 •■ - ■. '... \«» V
HH
7W
■
■ 9m
>■:,
••• /
I*4a3
*7 ''Y* fr W
vs\'W r\:;,>v*
?' r ; v ■ * '
:
i
£
■
The Implement for
this work is
The
Sundercut
Turns very hard soil.
Copes with difficult weed growths.
Deals with a large acreage.
Tractor Levers if desired.
ASK FOR CATALOGUE.
H. V. McKAY PTY., LTD.
SUNSHINE HARVESTER WORKS, SUNSHINE
27-39 George Street West, SYDNEY.
Cor. Murray and King Streets, PERTH.
105 North Terrace, ADELAIDE.
664 Bourke Street West, MELBOURNE
H. V. McKay (Queensland 1 ), Ltd., Stanley Street, SOUTH BRISBANE.
A. G. Webster & Sons, Ltd., Hobart, Launceston, Devonport, tiurnie


NOT MADE DOWN TO A PRICE
It is NOT POSSIBLE to produce a
more VALUABLE Tennis Ball.
X
I
n
w
m
sm
m
Duck
Be Sure You Use Only
All-British
Cartridges
k
m
m
m
OBEL
Proved by the most
experienced shooters
to be
The Best.
Obtainable at all
Gunsmiths and Dealers
174 M.P.H Motorcar world's
record made on
The cable printed below tells of yet another great
triumph made on “Castrol.” This appalling speed of
X 74 miles an hour is an absolute world’s record for a
motor-car.
Cable received from Head Office, London: —
Malcolm Campbell Highest Motor
Car Speed ever attained 174 miles
per hour secured on Castrol
absolute world’s record.
There has been no greater test of the efficiency of a lubricant.
It can be understood readily with what care these drivers, who dice
with death, would provide lor the vital factor of lubrication. The
fact that “Castrol” was associated with this newest and greatest
record speaks for itself.
Most recent records, on road and track, in the air or afloat, have
been made on “Castrol.”
Warning to Motor Oil Users
Many advertisements telling of great performances and
claiming credit for some brand of motor spirit are ambiguous
about the lubricant. This may give rise to a belief that the
motor oil of the same brand was used. Inquiry will prove, in
nearly every case where no lubricant is specially mentioned,
that Castrol” was the motor oil used.
Obtainable from all Leading Garages.
C. C. WAKEFIELD & CO., LTD.,
The All-British Firm, .
Head Office for Australasia:
Atlas Building 1 , 8 Spring St., Sydney
By Royal Warrant
HisMaierty King George
5 5
UNDERWOOD
Portable Typewriter
gsSSKiSss
For a Few Pence a Day...
For an Outlay of just a few pence a day you can own the
world’s finest portable typewriter and enjoy the many
benefits it confers. You can use it with profit and
pleasure at the office, at home or while travelling. It
will reduce the time of your written work by half, give
you extra hours for leisure and recreation, and prove
itself a real friend in dozens of ways.
Use the Coupon to obtain a
copy of our illustrated descrip-
tive booklet . No obligation is
incurred .
Stott & Underwood Ltd.
9-11 O’Connell Street, Sydney.
The Underwood Typewriter Agency,
91-93 William Street, Melbourne.
Post to G.P.O. Box 1556 E Sydney, or 91 William Street, Melbourne.
Pd like full details about the
TJndcrwood Portable, without
obligation, of course.
NAME ..
ADDRESS
Bulletin 24/2/’27.


Motorists
Are delighted with the
speed and smooth run-
ning qualities of their
razors when they lather
with
VELVET
SHAVING STICK
18.1191 1. KITCHEN 1 SONS PTY. LTD.
VELVET
SHAVING STICK
AUSTRALIA’S BEST.
RESCH’S
LAGER, DINNER ALE,
PILSENER & STOUT.
RESCH’S BITTER ALE,
AUSTRALIA'S BEST BITTER.
Western Australian Distributors:
BURNS, PHILP & CO., LTD., PERTH AND GERALDTON.
HARVEY’S “SPECIAL” Whisky
MELLOWED BY AGE ALONE.
Sole Agents: RESCH’S, LTD., Retlfern, Sydney. [2
&/>e
W. W. GREENER
“EMPIRE”
Hammerless Gun
Obtainable from all Retailers.
Price £2l.
Wholesale Representatives:
W. P. THOMPSON 8 CO. PTY., LTD.
405-7 Lonsdale Street,
Melbourne.
SPORTING
NOTIONS
The 1927 autumn meeting of the V.A.T..C.
will be long remembered, and not for the racing
alone. The fire which destroyed the Guineas stand
at Caulfield : on the first day was followed on Satur-
day by a fateful steeplechase, in which six of the
ten starters came down. Percy Dinsdale, rider of
Wanwin, was killed, and so was the horse; D. M.
Glennon, who was on Bannock, sustained a frac-
tured skull, as did poor Dinsdale, and for a time
his life was despaired of. E. Rawlings and W.
Goddard are also in hospital, the former with a
compound fracture of the leg, and the latter with
a broken collar-bone. Poor Dinsdale was the leading
Vic. cross-country jockey, and no gamer fellow ever
rode over the big timber. The dreadful affair should
put an end to the business of hot-weather steeple-
chasing, which is as senseless an anachronism as
the 20-round fight.
The eleventh-hour scratching of Heroic and the
refusal of Manfred (7 to 2) to leave the post
(with Lewis this time) took a lot of the interest
out of the rich Futurity Stakes, but it provided a
very fine race for all that. Top Gallant (12 to 1),
who won last year, but is not so well as he was then,
made the running to the turn, where Valicare
(5 to 2) ran past him. At this stage, tiie Sydney
mare looked a sure winner, but Waranton (25 to 1)
tackled her and fairly worried her out of the
victory; the judge’s verdict was “a long head, ’
with Fuji San (5 to 1) a good third, only three-
quarters of a length away, Bicolor (4 to 1) a length
behind Fuji San, and Preposterer (100 to 1) another
half-length astern; the time was lmin. 26jsee.
Bicolor, who was interfered with by Manfred, was
tailed off for a time, and must have galloped a
very fast concluding half-mile. He is to start for
the St. Leger, from which Rampion has been
withdrawn, but whether he has been sufficiently
prepared for a long distance remains to be seen,
good colt though he undoubtedly is. It was
Waranton’s 23rd success, and he has earned £10,364
' in stake-money for R. and G. Chaffey. Jones rode
, an excellent race on the great old St. Anton
gelding.
It was like old times to see “Young Jim” Wilson
capture a double with horses of his own breeding.
With Puikami (6 to 1), a brown colt by Burrabadeen
—Kilrie, Wilson took the Alma Stakes for two-
vear-olds, his youngster getting a shade the better of
a desperate struggle with Sion (2 to 1), the brother
to Vaals; and with Bunkie (8 to 1) he collected the
big money in the Woodcliff Handicap, the 11 fur-
longs of which were run in 2min. 21sec. Bunkie,
who is a five-year-old gelding by Burrabadeen —
Florenza, carried 6st. 111 b., though handicapped at
6st. 71b., Lynch being unable to get down to the
weight. In the Australian Cup, for which he was
quietly backed before Saturday’s race, he will have
6st. 91b., and Spearfelt (2 to 1), whom he beat
by a length and a half, though the Melbourne Cup
winner was making up ground, comes down to 9st.
131 b had lOst. 2lb. in the Woodcliff. Cyden,
who is in the St. Leger, was a pretty good third.
Chrystal (5 to 2) enabled the Sydney crowd to
get square on the day in the Hawksburn Handicap.
When the over-raced Calmest (10 to 1) ran out wide
at the turn and took Chrystal with her, the grey
Chrysolaus pony looked to have little chance, but
Jones straightened her smartly and she made the
others (24 altogether) look cheap in the straight.
She won by nearly three lengths from the three-
year-old colt Treylon (33 to 1), who was a neck in
front of Gothic (20 to 1), in the good time (for Caul-
field) of lmin. 13jsec.
The winner of the Hawksburn Handicap is gener-
ally dangerous in the Newmarket, and it will be in
Chrystal’s favor at Flemington next Saturday that
her burden will be 7st. 61b., instead of 7st. 121 b.
Six pounds will make a difference to so small a
bit of stuff. However, if Heroic (lOst. 31b.) emerges
from the cloud of rumor and strips well on Saturday,
this Page will expect him to beat the grey and
everything else. In the absence of Heroic, Chrystal
may win, with Fuji San (9st. 131 b.) next best.
And The Bulletin will stick to Naos (7st. 111 b.)
for the Australian Cup, placing Spearfelt (9st. 131 b.)
second.
* * * *
There were some exciting finishes at
Moorefield (N.S.W.) on Saturday; two dead-heats,
and nearly a third. Among those who broke even
were St. Eaton (9 to 4) and Orange Prince (8 to
1) in the Moorefield Handicap, 10 furlongs. The
St. Eaton people were willing to divide, but the
Orange Prince party, although it had “got on’ at
10 to 1, demanded a run-off —and its steed lost by
a head. Punters were glad to see J. J. Garvan and
J. A. Murdoch in the list of winning owners; the
former’s colors were borne to victory by Helvetia, a
nice stamp of mare by Valais—Lady Swynford, and
the latter’s by the hitherto disappointing Jack
Point (Absurd —Margarethe). Plucky buyers both,
they deserve better luck than has come their way.
* * * *
“Centurion”: Frank Silva, who died in
Sydney last week, was, in his Charters
Towers (Q.) days, one of the biggest s.p.
merchants in Australia. A large propor-
tion of the punting of west and nor’-west
Queensland was done through his little
tobacconist’s shop in Gill-street, and, in
those days at least, there was plenty of
it. Some of Silva’s harvest went into
sound mining investments, and when he
came to Sydney some 20 years ago he
was a wealthy man. He ran a few horses
in N.S.W., among them being Cabin Boy
and Cabochon, but most of his later inter-
ests were centred in real estate and
Menangle Park racecourse, of which he
was part owner. Like his old friend and
contemporary, the late “Stepper” Davis,
Silva hadn’t had much school education,
but he found it no disadvantage in the
s.p. business.
Joe Hall was a cocksure coon while his
third contest with triple-crowned Billy Grime was
in the talking stage. He was sure he had learned
just exactly how to beat “dis yer Grime guy,” and
“dis time I’se goin’ to lick him, suah. Yes, suh.”
When the war started at the Sydney Stadium on
Saturday night, before almost a “capacity house,”
all Joseph’s good intentions went to patch the pave-
ment of Tophet. Many of the little black’s left and
right hooks and crosses would have rocked a bigger
man than Grime —who weighed in at Bst. 13flb. and
gave away 7fib. —to sleep if they’d landed; but
land they didn’t. Joseph may be said to have won
the fourth, in which he got home an ugly hook
between the eyes .and a right thump to the ear, but
before and after that particular round it was all
Grime. The coon was roundly hooted for ridiculously
claiming fouls in the seventh and in the eighth. He
stultified his claim in the eighth by instantly
launching a mad-dog attack, though one second
previously he had been down doing the anguish act.
Grime took full advantage of the darkie’s reckless
attitude. He chipped the chin sweetly, tore heavy
rips and drives to the body and, sending a tremend-
ously heavy right flush to the point, put Hall face-
down on the canvas- —out! It was a fine fight while
it lasted, and the finish in less than eight rounds
WHAT HE'D DO.
SHE: “What would you do if your horse
won and you discovered that you’d lost
your ticket?”
HE: “Five quid.”
gave one more demonstration that Grime is not only
a marvel of skill, but has developed a great wallop.
This was Billy’s last fight before leaving to try his
luck in the U.S.A.
* * * *
Except where Grime is concerned, Mel-
bourne boxing form is very in-and-out. There was
a cas“ in point at the Melbourne Stadium on Satur-
day night, when Harry Pearce, who had been soundly
thrashed by Bert McCarthy, got a points decision
over Mac’s‘ conqueror. Pedro Campo. Neither Pearce
nor Campo can claim any resemblance in style to
the late Jim Mace, and the scrap they provided,
though strenuously contested, was at times less uke
a boxing contest than a street brawl. In their canni-
balistic days the Filipinos must have been a hard
lot to digest, and Pedro displayed all the character-
istics of his race. Over the last few rounds, with
his strength spent by his early efforts to annihilate
the white boy, Pedro stood gamely up to a withering
bombardment, and never gave up hope of landing one
that would snatch victory for him. Weights: Pearce,
9st. 9 Jib.; Campo, 9st. 9Jib.
* * * #
“Hayband”: Followers of “legitimate”
coursing—the sort that ends in jugged hare —are
afraid that the introduction of the tinned variety, in
which an electric animal is coursed but never (well,
hardly ever) caught, may provide the S.P.C.A. with
an argument for putting an end to the game at Geelong
and Rooty Hill. Despite the element of comedy in
the spectacle of greyhounds streaking after a jam-
tin full of wheels, the innovation has caught on
properly in England. Should it prove successful here,
it will be hard "to justify the slaughter that goes on in
the coursing enclosures.
* * * *
“Camshaft”: “Lytt” (B. 17/2/’27) sug-
gests the racing of “standardised machines as an
alternative to the positive banning of motor-racing on
circular tracks.” His fatheaded idea is bound to fail
because spectators pay for speed and thrills, and
OF A SAVING DISPOSITION.
JOHNSON: “Good heavens, Maephcrson,
you’re holed in ONE!”
MACPHERSON : “Ah, weel, I always like to
save the wear and tear on the baall!”
won’t attend otherwise. “Standardised machines,”
which would need superfine tuning to touch 80 m.p.h.,
would soon drive speedway cos. into the Bankruptcy
Court, besides doing themselves no good, for liow
can anything “standardised” progress, or otherwise
be of “practical value from an engineering stand-
point” ? If it is decided to change the present
order of things, two courses are open to the Maroubra
management: (1) Reversion to daylight racing; (2)
reliance on motor-cycles alone. In the latter case,
more speed is required to provide the necessary enter-
tainment. There is nothing wrong with the local
lads’ riding—witness the dirt-track racers at the
Speedway Roj^al—but the local standard of tuning
is deplorable. Most machines are slower than when
they left the factory. The American riders imported
this summer have won most of the trophies without
putting up anything alarming in the way of high
speeds. Why not try England for rider-mechanics
of the Le Yack-Handley-Marchant order? If races
which are now won at 80 m.p.h., amid only mild
excitement, went up to 100 m.p.h. or so, Maroubra
would soon find its place in the sun.
“Avon”: Undeterred by Maroubra’s troubles, Maori-
land has decided to go in for motor speedway racing.
A quarter-mile wooden track, banked up to 50
degrees at the corners, is being constructed at
Monica Park, Christchurch; it will cost about £BOOO
and will be controlled by a company. On a track
of such relatively, small circumference and sharp
corners, very high speeds will not be safe, but the
promoters say they intend to limit competition to
small cars with a maximum speed of not more than
75 m.p.h.
* * * *
The well-advertised benefit match to C. G.
Macartney opened at Sydney Cricket Ground on
Friday, and though neither the Australian XI nor
“The Rest” were at their strongest, there was a
big attendance on the opening day, which was
increased to close on 28,900 on Saturday, takings
being £642 and £1731. The wicket was covered
and the match limited to four days, both conditions
making for faster scoring than is usually seen in
the Sheffield games. “The Rest” batted first and
compiled 305, a total mostly due to a flashing century
by Allan Ivippax and a scarcely less meritorious
knock by Guy Morgan for 89. This forcing innings,
remarkable for fine pulling of the fast bowlers, was
the best big cricket effort the Glebe batsman has
shown a .Sydney crowd. Victor Richardson was
moving well when Macartney skittled him at 36,
but save for a neat 22 from the young South
Australian, Alexander, and 18 by Williams, also a
Wheatfielder, there was not much doing. The
Queenslanders, Thompson and O’Connor, both failed,
as did young Jackson, who recently scored a century
against Victoria. Everett (3 for 49) obtained the
best average for the Eleven by rattling out the
tail-enders; the beneficiary’s one wicket cost 25 runs.
Ponsford and Woodfull made a good Friday even-
ing start for the XI, and next day took the score to
222, when Ponsford left, caught by McNamee off
slow bowler Williams, for 131. It was the innings
of a master, and his sixth century this season.
His partner ran to 140, after showing that
he has quickened up his game and eased his
style considerably since he went to England; by waj
of proving it, he took the crowd’s breath away by
hitting two sixes. Macartney, who had a v'onderful
reception, rattled up 26 and was stumped by O’Connor.
.Tack Gregory smacked up a lively 44. while Tom
Andrews took his time collecting 115 n.o. Save for
26 by Everett none of the others, including Taylor,
Bardsley, Ryder and Oldfield, did much. Williams,
bowling slow leg-breaks with, an occasional wrong ’un,
ended with 6 for 172. ’Keeper O’Connor stumped
two and caught another, allowing but one bve. in
the big total of 533. In their second try “The Rest”
had 32 up without loss at stumps before the bad
light stopped play at 5.30 on Saturday. The
weather had changed for the worse on Monday, and
play was not started till well past four, after
several inspections of the soaked pitch. The Rest’s
skipper fell into the Gregory-Mailey trap with 16 to
his name, but Morgan and Kippax batted freely on
a fairly easy wicket, the latter supplementing his
first innings century with 51 before he pulled a long
hop from Everett into Woodfull’s hands at mid-off.
On Tuesday Morgan and Jackson raised the score to
159, when the former was taken in the slips for a
sound 73. Jackson played carefully for 32, but
seven wickets were down before the possibility of
defeat by an innings was averted. O’Connor and
Smith made a stand, adding nearly a hundred for the
eighth wicket, but the innings closed for 344, of
which the Queenslander’s share was a pluckily hit
101.
* * * *
“Howzatt” : It is a curious fact that, save
in England, Australia and Maoriland, cricket, essen-
tially a turf game, is usually played on something
else. There are turf wickets at Philadelphia, but in
the West Indies, South Africa and Asia the pitch
is generally matting. South Africa, which can grow
good turf in places, is so obsessed with matting that
it spreads the stuff over turf pitches, as at the
famous Newlands ground at Capetown. Canada is
now to have its first turf wickets. These are to be
laid down at Vancouver, British Columbia being
the leading cricket province in the Dominion. H.
Tj. Collins was responsible for the innovation on
his recent trip through Canada, and Bulli soil may
be imported by the Canucks.
* * * *
“The Gaffer” : The Board of Control has
a notion of tying up members of future Australian
elevens with a contract proviso that they will not
sign up with English clubs for two years after a
tour. There’s nothing like healthy discipline in
matters of this sort. In the palmy days of pro-
fessional pedestrianism, a cove who had got together
a good stable of peds. had to exercise some similar
sort of control. It cost money to discover likely
sorts, or to persuade ’em to leave others who were
merely exploiting ’em. Then, perhaps, after feeding
’em, buying togs, giving ’em pocket money—you
might be asked twice in a day for a couple of bob
—some sneaking cow was always crawling round to
get ’em from you, or persuade ’em to sell you a
pup. The usual plan was to let ’em get well into
debt with you—easy enough with their sort then.
If trouble arose, you could hint at a judgment
summons and a spell in the cooler. One member of
the profession used to keep any doubtful ped. at
heel by slipping him a ring or a watch on the
quiet as a “present,” or, perhaps, planting something-
on him. After that, a chip about giving him in
charge for pinching would steady the flashest of
’em, a ped.’s word in those days being worth about as
much as a politician’s is now.
* * * *
“All Blue”: The returning Maoriland
League footballers seem to have enjoyed some stirring
experiences. When Australian pressmen boarded the
steamer with their notebooks, one of the joint man-
agers pointed to his shingle, saying gloomily, “Look
at these grey hairs —they’re a reminder of the tour.”
“It’s been a nightmare,” the other joint manager
remarked. The trouble seems to have risen from
the appointment of a Queensland official as manager,
the Maoriland League hoping that he would prove
more impartial than a Dominion product. That
irritated some of the party, which presently took
sides. The English N.U. supported the mutineers,
thinking thereby to get the team playing together
again, for the split was having a shocking effect on
the gates. Now the Maoriland body threatens sever-
ance of diplomatic relations.
* * * *
“Past Grammar” : One of the quaintest
features of American sport—and it bristles with
them —is the selection every year of the “All-America”
football eleven. No other country plays the dreadful
American game, so Uncle Sam just selects his team
every year and awards it a world’s championship.
It recalls a cartoon in Judge. Lord Hawke’s team
of amateurs, a second-rate lot, had been beaten in
Philadelphia in a cricket match. The same year,
America had won the big yacht races and a Canadian,
Gaudaur, held the world’s sculling championship.
The cartoon showed Uncle Sam modestly bedecked
with medals “captioned” with every sporting cham-
pionship on earth. He was saying to a troubled
John Bull: “Say, are there any more things I can
lick you at?”
Before the yachting carnival at the Sema-
phore (S.A.) came to an end, the Tassie gathered
a fresh laurel by winning the Albert Cup; it had
made its victory in the Forster Cup most convincing
by taking each of the three heats. The Tasmanian flier
suffered a defeat in an invitation race, the N.S.W.
boat E.O.J. getting home 3min. 4sec. ahead of her
in a race in which the wind died away towards the
enu. The best time put up by the Hobart boat over
the 12-mile course was 2hr. smin. 36sec. in the
second heat of the Forster.
* * * *
“Bouragi” : If Australia is going to be
represented at the Amsterdam Olympiad in July,
1928, it is time the authorities got a move on.
America and most of the European countries have
long since been busy in the direction of raising-
funds and organising; the Yanks have even chartered
a liner to transport and house their team in Amster-
dam. Australia has always had a lot of trouble
getting enough cash together, and arrangements have
generally been of a casual character, both at home
and abroad. The blame lies with the Australian
Olympic Federation, a Jovian body which has acquired
a habit of oversleeping itself. It should have been
stirring up the State Olympic'Councils long ago, and
they, in their turn, should have been hard at work,
months before this, with their States’ sporting and
athletic bodies. Probably it is in this multiplica-
tion of councils that the fault lies, each leaving it
to the other to make a start.
* * * *
“C. Bumpkin” : Professor Wilkinson, dean
of the faculty of dentistry at Melbourne Uni., gave
three students a rough time (rougher, perhaps, than
they will ever give anybody in the dental chair)
when he took them for a cruise to Tasmania in his
auxiliary ketch Sarguenay. They -were 52 days
coming and going, encountered 17 gales or there-
abouts, nearly lost a member by accident and sick-
ness, got near enough to a lee shore in a howling
hurricane to smell the rocks and had other adven-
tures usually .best read about in books. None of
the three had ever been on a yacht before, so the
Professor may -be commended for masterly seaman-
ship in bringing his ship through single-handed, if
not censured for foolhardiness in setting out with
a crew of amateurs.
HANDICAPPRD.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“Mr. Alldis, M.L.A. for Eastern Suburbs, expressed
surprise at the ignorance displayed by Caucus mem-
bers on matters concerning the racecourse. He
hoped to assist in educating them and making them
more conversant with various phases.”
He pores o’er Mill and Adam Smith from morn to
eventide;
He never has an hour to spare for books like Miller’s
Guide ;
Karl Marx he quotes with earnestness and Henry
George with vim
But racecourse odds, ’tis sad to say, are worse than
Greek to him.
His constant study’s how to lift the toiling- masses
up;
He never speculates on what may win the Melbourne
Cup.
In Arbitration Court awards the keenest stock he
takes
But none in Manfred’s kinks or what Heroic’s won
in stakes.
His workaday curriculum no leisure time allots
For Saturdays at Kensington or flutters at the Trots.
He hies himself to libraries and similar resorts
When Randwick: hums with affluent toffs and giddy-
minded sports.
He never hears, this serious chap, the wild triumphant
roar
That tells the straining favorite’s home by half a
head or more.
The only sporting thrill that glads or chills his
sober soul
Is when returning officers are busy with the poll.
Still, there’s a mentor everywhere who makes it his
concern
To put his fellows wise to things they’ve had no
chance to learn.
And e’en a Laborite will find enlightenment complete
On turfy matters if he sits at comrade Alldis’ feet.
x.s.w.
T. THE R.


5
You can
positively rely
on Shell Motor
Spirit to yield the
hest possible return
in power miles, no
matter what make
of car you are using.
Set your carbu-
rettor once —the
uniform quality
of Shell makes
any further adjust-
ments unnecessary.
JVlotor Oils
and Spirit
THE BRITISH IMPERIAL OIL CO. LTD
THROUGHOUT AUSTRALIA U NEW ZEALAND
f-
ft
r S
r '» jt
*s.
is ~
5
G
mjwim
(A
&
ut
m
A
'yf
IV.
\\ «:
*“***K»MfH
UJi
I (
re
:#
ICE COLD-
with Electricity
EVERYONE can now enjoy the benefits
of refrigeration no matter how far
away an ice source may be.
Kelvinator is the name of the device that
brings to the home the blessing of properly
preserved foods. Kelvinator automatically
keeps refrigerators a frosty cold by electric-
ity. It freezes its own dainty ice cubes for
table use, while it is silently protecting the
family health by preventing food deterio-
ration and the
bacteria.
Kelvinator electric refrigeration fur-
nishes intense, dry cold in which fresh
foods retain all their deliciousness day
after day. Kelvinator relieves you of all
the cares of refrigeration, while it gives
you all the advantages—and many new
ones besides.
development of dangerous
DANGAR, GEDYE & CO., Ltd.,
Young Street, Sydney.
Kelvinator Showrooms: 75 William Street, Sydney.
’Phone: F 1778.
Kelvinator
Oldest Domestic Electric Refrigeration
12
The
THE INKY WAY.
“Uramao”: The N. Z. Times (Welling-
ton ), lately absorbed by the Dominion, had
a long procession of managers and editors.
Among the former was one from Yankeeland,
known as a “sick-paper doctor,” whose
main notion was to encourage the inward
and discourage the outward flow of dahlers
There was a printer’s devil whose father was
in debt to the paper, and the accountant was
told to deduct a certain amount weekly from
the urchin’s wages till the debt was liqui-
dated. Immediately after the first deduction
a grubby face appeared before the manager
and a small indignant voice rasped out: “I’ll
Truck Act yeh.” The Yank tilted his long
cigar and called the foreman. “This tarna-
tion boy says he’ll Truck Act me. What
the devil does he mean?” “And they have
the cheek to call this Galid’s own country,”
was the manager’s bitter comment when he
was told.
The official opening of Canberra will be a
unique event, no matter what drawbacks the
place may have. In all history there is
no previous record of the construction of
a city, town or hamlet to be the metropolis
of an entire continent, especially of a conti-
nent speaking one language and almost
wholly peopled by one race. And in a mil-
lion years of history such a happening may
not be repeated. In view of the unparalleled
nature of the event, the S. M. Herald, the
richest paper the Commonwealth possesses,
has offered £25 for a commemorative ode,
also £lO and £5 for two inferior or branch
odes. It is to be hoped that it gets full
value for the money.
“H.P.” : After just on 40 years of country
journalism F. W. Punshon, proprietor-editor
of the Coleraine (Vic.) Albion, has gone to
Geelong to live. Son Alfred succeeds him.
The Albion is not without traditions. It
was owned and edited by W. T. Reay for
some years in the ’eighties. Jack Davidson,
of the Adelaide News and associated papers,
did his very first journalistic work for it.
“Hamer”: A motor-car rushed out of the
night along the dangerous Queen’s-square
opening and made an end of the likeable
“Polly” Andrews (his real Christian names
were Arthur Spaulding), who had worked on
most Sydney papers at one time and another,
and was a good enough journalist to make
his deafness no handicap. He was likewise a
Digger with the 2nd Battalion. One night,
when I had run short of money in a lively
Sydney club aiid was wondering whom I
could strike for five bob, Andrews suddenly
came up and pushed 3s. 6d. into my hand.
The amount struck me as curious, especially
as I hadn’t mentioned my financial need to
him, but I took what the gods had sent. The
next day I met Andrews in the street and
returned the money. He looked dazed.
“That’s what you lent me last night,” I ex-
plained. “I never lent you any money,” lie
said reproachfully. “Not being a member of
the club I wanted -you to get me a flask of
whisky—that’s why I handed the cash to
you.” A vision still haunts me of poor old
“Polly” waiting for his whisky whilst I spent
his money.
“Lytt” : Henry Brett, the “father of the
Maoriland press,” didn’t live long to enjoy
his knighthood. Sixty-five of his 84 years
were spent in Fern land —he was one of the
settlers who arrived in Auckland by the
sailing-ship Hanover in 1862. Becoming a
reporter on the Southern Cross, he showed
exceptional talent in getting shipping news,
and after eight' years at that, on the Cross
and the Herald, he had saved up enough
money to buy a modest interest in a new
evening journal, the Auckland Star. There-
after Brett devoted (himself to the Stab
and Auckland, and helped to make both bigger
and better. His leisure, which was never
extensive, was given to gardening and music,
and in his time lfe was .Mayor of Auckland
and chairman of most of its public bodies,
He gave the city of his adoption the biggest
organ in the Dominion;;, for its Town Hall.
He continued to write till the end. his last-
published book being one about the clipper
ships of his early reporting days.
“Nortram”: “Speculum” (B. 10/2/’27)
discovers a certain snobbishness in the space
devoted by the daily papers to the shooting
accident in the Burragorang Valley (N.S.W.),
when a similar accident which occurred at the
same place some 10 years ago received no pub-
licity. This is unjust. If the Crago incident
had ended with the journey down the “goat
track” by a medico to attend a wounded
patient there would have been little news
value. That sort of risk is taken by doctors
almost every day. Practically the whole
interest of the affair lay in the organising
ability necessary for the equipment of a
makeshift private hospital in a bush hut
miles from the amenities of civilisation, in
order that an eminent surgeon might perform
an operation to save a life. When one considers
that tents, blankets, operating table, instru-
ments and supplies all had to be carried on
men’s shoulders (horses could not negotiate
the track) the charge against the press of
“exploiting personalities” surely falls to the
ground. The parents of the boy probably
did not want, and the medicoes concerned
certainly did not need, the “advertisement
the whole affair gave them.
“F. J. 8.”: The name of William Henry
Gocher has been recalled to remembrance by
the Manly municipal jubilee celebrations. A
quarter of a century ago he founded and
edited the Manly and North Sydney News,
and the story of how he procured the abroga-
tion of the obnoxious police regulation which
forbade bathing in the ocean between 7 a.m.
and 7 p.m. has become a matter of history.
Subsequently he founded the Balmain
Banner, besides contributing to many pub-
lications, mostly- on finance, for he was an
enthusiastic bimetallist and currency re-
former. In his leisure time he was a bit ot
an author. The death of his son, Lieut.
William Whitely Gocher (M.M. and bar), at
the Battle of Messines greatly affected him.
and brought on paralysis; he struggled on
for three years, dying, at the age of 65, iu
1921. Three of his sons went on active ser-
vice during the Great War; all three were
noted life-savers of the Freshwater club.


mmi
wmmm
wmm
Ha
■fi
MJm
US
gj?M
mm
m
ms
Ills
Bg*
... -
M
H
ssSal
i
IHI
'H.
Hi?
ilii
m
:
i.Lj
m
m
1
p§i
i
%""’'
IS
mu
IS
■tit
.v
§§§
■. •■'■■-I
■MB
M
M
"
FIRST COST IS ONE
THING-ULTIMATE
COST IS ANOTHER!
Exide first costs are
now as low as inferior
batteries.
Their ultimate cost, by
reason of long-life and
freedom from repair bills,
always was lower. Now
it is MUCH lower
đ
THE
LONG-LIFE
BATTERY
i "
BH
m
11
He
m
m®
m :
Wt
m
ifim.
SB
■-
1
mm
i
Australian Distributors.
N, S. WALES: Gibson, Battle & Co., Ltd., Hun;
Street, off Wentworth Avenue, Sydney.
QUEENSLAND: ( “Exide” Battery Service (Q.),
Ltd., 472-474 Queen Street, Brisbane.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA: Unbehaun & Johnstone,
Ltd., Rosina Street, Adelaide.
WEST AUSTRALIA: Unbehaun & Johnstone
(W.A.), Ltd., Radio House, 308-387 Murray
Street, Perth.
VICTORIA: A. P. Sutherland, Queen’s Bridge (2
Maffra Street), South Melbourne.
New Zealand Distributors
Hope, Gibbons, Ltd., Wellington, Auckland and
Christchurch.


T he first puff convinces you
of the superior quality of
CIGARETTES
in pure ribbed watermarked rice paper *
CA\ANDERS Ltd., London (Est. 1775), Pioneers of Hygienic Cigarette Pacfetn
10
fot
9*
20
for
1/6
If*
m
CORK-TIPPED
or PLAIN
SUNDRY SHOWS.
SYDNEY SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Her Majesty’s “Tell Me More”
Criterion “Tea for Three”
Royal “The Mikado”
Palace “Hullo, Healo!”
St. James “Is Zat So?”
Fullers’ Vaudeville
Tivoli Vaudeville
MELBOURNE SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
His Majesty’s “Rose Marie”
King’s “The Last of Mrs. Cheyney”
Princess “Henry VIII.”
ATHENiEUM “The Ghost Train”
Tivoli Vaudeville
Bijou Vaudeville
Majestic Moving Pictures.
Hoyt’s Moving Pictures.
-♦
Brand-new costumes contributed to the
Oriental splendor of “The Mikado,” revived by
the G. and S. Co. at Sydney Royal on Satur-
day; but the Firm wisely kept to the old
designs instead of modernising the dressing,
as has been done in England. The production
shows playwright and composer in their best
music, verse and dialogue; and down to the
end, where Ko Ko clears up the tangled
issues by logically convincing the Mikado
that a reasonable excuse for not carrying
out an execution is that a man condemned
to death by the Mikado is already dead, the
performance runs brightly, though there are
directions in which it might be improved.
The casting of the G. and S. plays generally
is not altogether fortunate. In this one the
best work is shown by Bernard Manning,
who, with a weird make-up -to help him,
presents a humorously malignant Im-
perial jester whose mission in life is to
make the punishment fit the crime. Charles
Walenn portrays Ko Ko, the soft-hearted
Lord High Executioner, who never executed
anybody in his life; and John Ralston does
better than usual as Pooh Bah. It is a part
in which the comedy comes so easily that it is
impossible to miss, and Ralston’s voice is
used to advantage in “Young Man, Despair,”
amongst other things. James Hay is Nanki
Poo, singing as if he has sweets in his
mouth; lie got rid of them now and then,
notably in “A Wandering Minstrel, I.” Pish
Tush is mainly a hewer of the wood of
comedy and a drawer of the water of song
for others ; but “Our Great Mikado” gave
him a chance, and he was one of the four
in the madrigal which is one of the play’s
gems. Winifred Williamson lacks weight as
Katisha, but her make-up isn’t neglected this
“THE LAST OF MRS. CHEYNEY ,” AT
MELBOURNE KING'S.
Margaret Darner as Lady Maria Frinton,
and Reg Wykehdtn as Jim.
time; and Patti Russell is a charming Yum
Yum, with voice enough for the lighter
songs. Mabel Gibson and Effie Armstrong
were the other two who mattered, there
being no part for Strella Wilson, although
the unbobbed chorus and its masculine sup-
port always deserve a word. “The Mikado”
will run for three weeks.
sk 5;: sk sk
The lesson “Tea for Three” is apparently
intended to teach sober-sided husbands is
not likely to make any of them view from
a new angle platonic friendships between
their wives and devoted friends who have
been former lovers; withal, the triangle
story provides a good plot, upon which the
author, Roi Cooper Megrue, lias hung some
sparkling dialogue, with an intriguing series
of incidents. The former lover merely asks
for a continuation of his old privilege
of admission to the family circle; when the
husband plainly shows his objections, he
annexes a photograph so that he will at
least have his old sweetheart’s picture where-
with to solace his soul. The husband and
wife pursue the purloined portrait separately
to his rooms—the wife to recover it and put
it back in its own place, as substantiation
for her story that she has sent it to the
frame-makers for some repairs, and the hus-
band with suspicions stirring him into an
ugly mood. He forces his rival into a
suicide pact which will mean the elimination
of one of them ; but remorse comes to him
when a paper arrives with news of the
termination of his old friend, who drew the
marked card. When the allegedly deceased
arrives to prove the announcement premature
an atmosphere of friendliness is created for
the curtain-fall. There are only three char-
acters who really matter in the bright piece.
Leon Gordon handled the whimsical epigram-
matic lines of the friend with an adroitness
that kept the audience rippling at each shaft
of gay cynicism and satire; it was a much
more realistic piece of work than his rQle
of the embittered cynic of “White Cargo.”
Judith Anderson had a fine acting part,
varying from the inaction of the first
scene, where the interest had to be
sustained by the snappy dialogue alone,
to the emotional scene in which grief for a
supposedly dead friend mingles with reproach
for the husband, who. she guesses, has forced
him to his death. Wallis Clark was admir-
able as the jealous husband, the stolidity of
his unimaginative character furnishing a
powerful contrast to the other man’s lighter
vein. Although he had only a few lines to
speak, John Bedouin, as the friend’s valet,
helped the situation in the second act; and
Olga Lee played the maid of the married
couple capably. The play will run for as
long as the public likes it; it is an appetising
dish, well worth sampling.
sk sk s *k
It was a wise precaution to start the
farewell performance of “Rose Marie” last
Monday night at 7.30 ; even so the valedictory
rites lasted till near midnight. The mem-
bers of the other shows appearing in Syd-
ney apparently tore off costumes and grease-
paint and raced to Her Majesty’s directly
their own work was done; and, by cur-
tain-fall, not only was the theatre packed to
its last seat, but a jambed mass of people
standing at the back of the d.c. joined in the
congratulatory noises. From a flower-
embowered stage, Frederick Bentley, who
M.C.-ed the proceedings, claimed that the
317 performances in a city of Sydney’s size
was equal to a five years’ run in London :
then he introduced a shy and overwhelmed
Harriet Bennett to make a speech of thanks.
Harriet was followed by others of the prin-
cipals, whilst the massed chorus at the back
and the sides of the stage made a pretty
background. It was on May 29 last year
that the long-lived show started.
5k si: sk *
“Tell Me More” will take possession of
Her Majesty’s to-night. “Jack and the
Beanstalk” concludes at the St. James
Theatre on Saturday; and the old convention
of Saturday-niglit premieres will get another
knock when “Is Zat So?” takes possession
of the Fuller stronghold for a short revival
season—the intention to run big picture
shows in the theatre is pushed further back
by this arrangement.
sk 5k sk *
“Hullo, Healo!” keeps the Palace in a
very cheerful condition; and “Fair and
Warmer,” at the Grand Opera House, has
proved too popular for any change to be even
hinted.
He * He He
The big theatrical event of next week will
be the opening of the new Empire Theatre,
which derives an additional importance from
the threat of a theatre tariff-war which it
brings. The new house comfortably seats
3000 people, and the management is building
upon big houses at low prices—it will cost
only ten bob for Algernon to take his girl to
the best seats in the house to view “Sunny,”
which opens the ball on Monday night at a
gala charity performance. Fred Bluett is
appearing in the cast.
5;: sk sk sk
The Cansinos —relatives of the whirlwind
dancers who appeared in “Wildflower”—
introduced some lively and well-dressed
dances at the Tivoli this week; another new
turn is that of the Armand brothers, who
spice their hand-balancing and tumbling turn
with some fair comedy. But the Kwong
Sing Wall magicians and Baby Randall are
still the big draws at the vaudeville house,
where the vastly-improved Sid Beck con-
tinues to supply a large dish of laughter.
sk sk sk sk
The “mystery” of the “Mystery Girl” who
has made an appearance at Fuller’s Theatre,
doesn’t really matter except as ap aid to
the publicity merchant; the masked lady
sings some songs very effectively, and illus-
trates them with moving pictures. To click
with her Australian song she has followed
the beaten track of Harbor and mountains : a
new picture of St. Kilda, Black Rock, and
the Dandenongs will have to be compounded
for. Melbourne consumption if popularity is
desired in that city. Stumpy and Stella
introduce near-black faces,., loud voices and
remarkable activity in dancing which is more
athletic than graceful; and the Zig-Zag
revue co. keeps up its mirthful reputation
in “A Hot Night.”
Hollywooden plots are peteringout. Recently
“War Paint.” with a cast of Indian braves,
was shown in Sydney. Now “The Flaming
Forest,” at Hoyt’s and the Strand, follows
with the same mob of redskins, who carry
out exactly the same stratagem to capture
the white settlement as was utilised in “War
Paint.” The only different is that of locale
—in one case it is in early America and in
“ HULLO, HEALO!"
AT SYDNEY
PALACE.
Compton Coutts, as Mr. Andrews of “ Healo ,”
and Arthur Stigant, as Burnaby.
the other the Canadian North-West. Techni-
color films are used with effect in “The
Flaming Forest” when the British redcoats
ride picturesquely into the scene. But the
forest aflame is depicted quite unconvincingly
in black-and-white. Evidently the film is not
yet capable of producing realistic flames.
Australia should have its chance to show the
real thing: we have forests to burn.
•!* v n*
On Saturday night, having spent the week
in pressing its gala suit, Melbourne His
Majesty’s will break the hush of expecta-
tion with “Rose Marie.” No other recom-
mendation for the spectacle is required
locally than its Sydney run. On the same
night, at the Princess, whence “Puss in
Boots” has crept silently away, Allan Wilkie
will rise, phoenix-like, from his bashes to be
Hal the Eighth for a short reign. “Pins
and Needles” has had some of the brightest
of “Spangles” showered upon it at the
Royal, but only three nights remain to see
the merry show and gaze upon the ebullient
Ada Reeve. On Monday the same play-
house will consider the Repertory Society
in “Androcles,” by Shaw, and “The Man
Who Married a Dumb Wife,” by France.
The morals of Mrs. Clieyney are still evoking
controversy at the King’s, but the arguments
about them are only mildly heated, as a
rule. The Widow Neil-O’Brien is still in
occupation at the Palace, and “The Ghost
Train” rumbles nightly through the Athen-
seum.
** * *
Melbourne Tivoli audiences continue to
be impressed by Olsen and Johnson, the pair
of jazz comedians from U.S.A., and the sing-
ing of Estelle Mark, which is good, if a
trifle overrich, is almost overlooked in the
din. A new turn that is deserving of a
cheer is Zoe Delphine and Co. The act
reveals part of the firm sitting at its ease
around a cabaret-table behind a curtain
which is suspended in mid-air. Then the
curtain is removed, and the group is seen,
amid loud shouts of wonder, to be balancing
on a wire. Other newcomers are two young
men from Paris, who on Saturday danced
their way into favor on nimble, though not
sensationally nimble, feet. Dixon and O’Brien,
two probably counterfeit coons, also arrived
and let loose a flock of gags, some of which
should be impounded and returned to their
rightful owners. *
* •-:= H: 4
George Wallace’s long and well-populated
run at Melbourne Bijou draws to a close,
and the Australian comedian will only be
required to think of one more title for
his revue before the season ends. This
week he is Brutus, a bad egg, and judging
by the laughter that follows him as closely
as a famished moke trails the village chaff-
his vogue is as brisk as ever. The
stage behind him never actually pullulates
with peris, but the six damsels in backless
bathing-costumes who represent the chorus
make up for it by coming on as frequently
and vigorously as possible.
* * *
The latest and last of the “Lone Wolf”
mystery plays is pleasing and paralysing
Melbourne Majestic audiences this week.
Bert Lytell is again the elegant but uncon-
scionable scoundrel whose dazzling title
lures Billie Love to her destruction; which
destruction is postponed, at any rate for
the currency of the present film, bv an „„
expected softening of the villain’s heart
Another feature at this house is the id,.'
ture of the Caulfield racecourse fire “T,
Unknown Cavalier,” a wild and woolh-
Western tale, and “The Flaming Forest
both full of ruffians and good horsemanship
are Iloyt s contributions to the season's
intellectual pleasures. s
* He He He
Melbourne art shows :
Esther Paterson’s innate pictorial sense has appa-
rently been battling with a determination to bp
naturalistic, and 42 results of the Armageddon are
at present on view at the New Gallery. Figures
that move in a satisfactory manner are posed
against backgrounds that don’t always recede accord-
ing to the laws of perspective, and some of her seas
look a trifle too solid to be swum in. But Miss
Paterson is a valiant adventurer, and is tackling
new problems with a growing degree of achievement.
Some of her street scenes are full of light and the
uproar of color, even if the architecture is occasion
ally confusing. She has one clever little picture
of a seashore with some gulls fighting decoratively
in the middle distance. In her own pictorial depart-
ment she has a vivid sketch of a crisply modelled
lady and a charcoal study of a Dickens character
that may be Claude Flemming. But it is in oils
that she shows most advance. In the portrait
of her mother, in a hard, bright light, there lias
been an alert searching for contours with sharp
incisive brush strokes; but the subject is obviously
posing for her portrait, whereas the old woman
alongside her is concerned with her own inward
feelings. This last is a capable piece of painting,
the tones condensed and the face firmly planted!
The head of the laughing woman near by is masklike
but well drawn.
Carlyle Jackson, who has a show of water-colors
and oils at the Athenseum, is, artistically, a- com-
poser of light lyrics for the piano. One such lyric
is No. 3, a pizzicato sunlight effect on airy gums.
No. 8 is another soft run of notes in which a half-
hidden river enriched by reflections is the theme,
and a house which is difficult to find is a secondary
motive. There is technique in Jackson’s pictures, but it
is skilfully subjected to his emotions. He is manipu-
lating the quick-drying water-color with increasing
knowingness, and gets plenty of commotion into his
skies and depth into his oceans. He has got some of
the same qualities into his first efforts in oil. No.
3 is a choice study of a bridge bathing in warm
sunshine and chiming color, but in No. 8 he seems
to have gone a bit beyond his means and lost him-
self in a big dull landscape whose distant hills look
almost as handy as the foreground. He has been
looking as lovingly at haystacks as the farmer’s
flocks and herds in this dry weather. They—the
haystacks—look like meteorites just fallen and still
glowing. One in particular, laced with gum-tree
shadows, seems to live by an inward light, as if it
had absorbed a thousand sunsets. Emotional and
poetic expression in Victorian artists is rare, and
Carlyle Jackson’s contribution should be thank-
fully noted.
Some notice should be taken of the exhibition of
Ivan Romanoff, described as an exiled sculptor,
opposite the Athenaeum. His only tools are a piece of
wood, a meat skewer and a pencil “used in full jview
of the public,” so there is no doubt about the
authenticity of his “amazing reproductions from
memory” 0 f such wonders as “The Crucifixion,”
“Pygmalion’s Great Masterpiece, Galatea,” “Moses
on Mount Sinai” and others which “have startled
OLSEN AND JOHNSON AT
MELBOURNE TIVOLI.
the world.” The sculptor also suffers without flinch-
ing the distinguished patronage of nobility, scientists,
and the members of the medical profession, whose
verdict is, it is stated, unanimous, though it isn't
given. Romanoff is debarred from adequately treating
such historic spectacles as Ajax defying the tax-
collector or W. M. Hughes sidestepping an egg, since,
his medium being ordinary, unadulterated sand, he
is under the necessity of depicting all his subjects
lying down. Also there is no guarantee that a
purchaser of any of his works would be able to
distinguish it from a drayload of material for the
garden path when he got it home. As for the works
themselves, this commentator is willing to accept
the artist’s own opinion that he is “a genius with an
extraordinary knowledge ef anatomy.”


v. <r •% <
,
. ,
I^B
mm
■
I
,
t
»n
il
PP|gg|Mi|H
mz
'WF
I i
■
If i
■
im .
£•• 4r'- : ■■
% »*# -. ,')f
!-■■■-** .» * v Ss?
B ■
X
1 HP
sill
**!*?% ■
oAt the Sign of the “ White Horses"
That delicate heather “tang” you get in White
Horse Whisky is a secret in White Horse distilling.
There’s no other Whisky has it. It’s nature’s secret
really. White Horse Distillers discovered this
years ago, and it’s just this subtle heather flavour
which the real Whisky connoisseur appreciates all
the world over. Remember wherever you buy
White Horse Whisky it’s just the same grand old
Whisky made by the largest independent Whisky
firm in Scotland, from the original recipe of 1746
white house
"ILwhisky
WHITE HORSE DISTILLERS LTD.,
Glasgow and London.
DALGETY & COMPANY LTD.,
AgenU.


fife
A '$
m
ml
S?J
•'r
,-j
i«5rV
kl
h.
■
■
H
■
Sk
rw \
m
(
mmmmL
For all musical occasions—
The
PLAYER
PIANO
The impromptu dance at home, the entertainment of musical friends, the
accompaniment of songs—all these occasions find the “Wurlitzer” the
perfect musical medium. Dance Music or the works of the Great Masters may
be played with equal effect and beauty on the Wurlitzer Player Piano. Easy
terms and full particulars from “Wurlitzer” dealers.
PRINCIPAL WURLITZER AGENTS:
NEW SOUTH WALES: Royal Player Piano Co., 414 a George Street, Sydney; M. Light & Sons, Ltd., Newcastle and
Cessnoek; Jas. Loneragan Ltd., Gulgong; The Australian Stores, Yass.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA: The Australian Implement and House Furnishing Co., Adelaide.
VICTORIA: Myers Emporium Ltd., Melbourne.
WEST AUSTRALIA: Musgroves Ltd., Murray Street, Perth.
QUEENSLAND: Young & Whatnall, Campbell’s Buildings, Creek Street, Brisbane.
Where any difficulty is experienced in procuring a “Wurlitzer'’ communicate direct with the factory representatives:
PARKER, BLAD 8 CO., LTD.
8 O’CONNELL STREET, SYDNEY.
308 FLINDERS LANE, MELBOURNE.
Poverty
Point
“Jacky Roo” : There are disadvantages in
Sydney’s Sunday newspapers’ habit of .appa-
rently “writing up” first nights on Saturday
afternoon. After the first night of "The
Pirates of Penzance,” one Sunday sheet
waxed enthusiastic over Charles Walenn’s
Major-General, while another thought Walenn
not as good as usual. Neither of them knew
that Walenn was out of the cast and his
part had been taken by a young Austra-
lian, Elved Jenkins.
* “C.Q.”: It is time the wording of these
songs was brought up to date. One frequently
broadcast says:—
Take me to your bosom fair
And cover me with your golden hair!
Where is the woman who can do it nowa-
days?
“C.R.8.”: M. P. (“Storky”) Adams,
whose l,00(),()()()-h.p. energy makes even a
New Yorker look at him twice, was lately
managing a lecture tour for airman Cobham
in Canada. Cobham, who had planned to
talk to the Canucks on his African tour,
decided to include his very hurried impres-
sions of Australia, accompanied by inad-
equate lantern slides gathered from Heaven-
knowswhere. Adams spoke severely to the
birdman about his pictorial equipment, with
the result that Australia was struck out of
the programme.
“Lever de Rideau”: There is one thing
which may squash the whole movement for
a permanent orchestra in Melbourne. It
is the proviso, attached by James Dyer to
the £lO,OOO gift which started the agitation,
that the conductor must be imported from
abroad. In other words, if Australia pro-
duces a second Percy Grainger he will have
to go away in order to be invited back to
direct the band in his own home town. Who
is going to subscribe to a fund with such a
stuffy “old colonial” aroma? If the stipu-
lation were for the best obtainable conductor
there would be naught to cavil at.
Hamfat”: Death made a breach in a
happy theatrical family when it descended
suddenly upon Marty Ford, of the “Abie’s
Irish Rose” co., during the Newcastle season,
f ord at lunch complained of feeling ill, and
left the table for his room; he was found
there, lying dead on the floor, a little while
later. The dead actor had been playing his
part in the sentimental play for five years;
the tally of his performances as Isaac Cohen
was well over 2000 at the time of his death.
"O.P. Side” : I devoutly wished W. S. Gil-
bert alive again the other night at Sydney
Royal that lie might smite the perverters
of his excellent humor. Gilbert’s general
stage direction was that his lines should be
uttered seriously, so gaining a new humor
for nonsense gravely spoken. And here is
Ralston, the police sergeant of “The Pirates,”
giving bad imitations of Harry Lauder and
Cousin Slender, and using the trick wig of
Christy minstrels to simulate fear. The
cheapening of such a man as Gilbert is an
offence. Probably Ralston's only excuse
is the license of the imported Walenn, who
as Ivo Ko gives an excellent imitation of
the late John F. Sheridan as the Widow
O’Brien.
“Caul Boy”: “Canto” (B. 17/2/’27) is
afraid that the talking film will speak or
squeak in the accent of America. I doubt it.
Few Yankees can stand their own tongue on
the stage, except in American character
parts. Hence most American actors, like
the Australian in musical comedy, include
amongst their stage props, a knowledge of
llie Oxford patois'.
“Hamfat”: “No, No, Nanette!” which
must have made thousands for the Fullers in
the long Melbourne and Sydney seasons, is
pushing off on a new adventure which starts
in Brisbane on March 5. with M.L. to follow.
A shuffled cast gives chances to Australians.
Elsie Prince. Charlton Morton and Jimmy
Godden, with Olive Grant, who is to come
back from “Hullo, Healo!” are the importa-
tions that remain, but Madge White is out
of the cast—Nelle Dean takes the part of
Lucelle. Pauline, May Beatty’s part, goes
to Sadie Gale; Flsie Parkes is still the prim
Sue Smith; Gladys Hermes becomes Betty
from Boston, and Phyllis du Barry is to be
Winnie from Washington. Oliver McLen-
nan’s old part of Tom Trainor goes to Claude
Holland.
BUSINESS.
“But haven't you already engaged yourself to act with Crotter?"
“Reassure yourself—he has only my word.”
. “W. Spokeshave”: Melbourne has ambi-
tions to be the Los Angeles to a local Holly-
wood. At present the few Vic. pictures taken
by the trade are being “shot” in any old
barn; and when a troupe, suitably yellow-
faced and arrayed in fearsome duds, requires
a change of scenery, it has to run the gaunt-
let of the ribald small boy in the streets.
Now managers are inquiring about a large
block of suburban land where the* ornate
interior of a Potts Point home can rest
cheek-by-jowl with the hotel in which Ned
Kelly made his last stand. Apparently an
early result of the State legislation passed
in the interests of Australian producers last
session.
“Spearshake”: The question of the safety
of picture-theatres is raised by “Jones
John’s” par. (B. 17/2/’27). Projection-
rooms are adeouately shut off from the public :
but that is far from being the only pre-
caution required. There are theatres in
which occupants of. upper floors have to
climb up a narrow aisle before they can get
down to the. street exit. A stumble on the
stairs, blocking the rush, might easily cause
a catastrophe. With people sitting on the
stairs the danger is obvious. One theatre
I know allows patrons to occupy the stairs
temporarily as seats until other people go
out at the interval between screenings. This
sort of thing wouldn’t bo tolerated if Govern-
ments did tlieir duty, but crawling to the
American movie interest (which has the
effrontery to call itself an “Australian indus-
try”) has become a Ministerial habit.
“Jacky lino” : I disagree with “Caul Boy”
(B. 10/2/’27), who believes Crock will
suffer the fate of Little Tick from Tivoli
patrons. Little Tick is obviously past his
prime; Crock is comparatively a young man
when lie takes his grotesque make-up off.
Noni (Crock’s late partner) may have given
some of his principal’s comic stuff, but the
Frenchman can stnl present the funniest and
most original turn in the world—without
speaking a word. I think Crock will be the
only high-priced vaudeville importation to
Australia to justify his enormous salary.
“F.S.”: Professor Wallace, chief Federal
censor of films, took the star turn in a
wild-west drama near Melbourne the other
day. The big scene in the play was where
he entered a hut in a remote bush place and
arrested two armed men suspected of steal-
ing goods. He performed his part with dis-
tinction and handed his prisoners over to
the police at Hurstbridge. The goods stolen
were his own, abstracted from liis home at
Kinglake.
"N’Yoik”: If Australian theatregoers
thought “White Cargo” was the limit in mis-
cegenation dramas they were mistaken. Com-
pared with plays which have had successful
runs in America, the show attributed to
Leon Cordon is as mild as a curate’s curse.
Among examples which have recently made
fortunes for their owners may be cited “The
Love pity.” The town thus prettily described
is British Hong-Kong. The principal charac-
ters are a Chinese girl, who has been rescued
naked from a gutter in front of a llong-
Kong club by a native gentleman, manager of
a night school for training ladies of breezy
virtue, and a blonde young Englishman who
becomes an opium
addict but retains
enough manliness
to slioot the native
gentleman. In “The
Shanghai Gesture,”
a n other fruity
specimen, a “beau-
tif u 1 high - bred
daughter of an
English baronet” is
brought before a
dinner - party o f
English and Ameri-
can residents and
put up for auction
to a crowd of
Chinese junkmen
by an odoriferous
beldame of doubt-
ful nationality.
The beldame later
shows the baronet
his daughter hung
up in a cage before
her door, as a sort
of shop-sign indi-
cating what can be
obtained within.
Still another mas-
terpiece of smut is
“Lulu Belle,” which
rejoices in a cast
of 98 full-blooded
Senegainbian sav-
ages and 19 whites,
with a half-caste
girl as its yellow
star. Some Ameri-
cans have just re-
membered that,
even if they haven’t
got an Asiatic em-
pire ruled mainly
by prestige, they
have 12 million
negroes in their
midst. So the
other day the actors and owners of the
smelliest shows were swept up by the police.
“Veronal” : The first dramas published in
Australasia saw the light at Hobart in 1842.
They were the work of one David Burn,
“member of the Dramatic Authors’ Society
and author of ‘Van Diemen’s Land, Moral,
Physical and Political.’ ” Burn’s book of
plays is a two-volume octavo, and begins
with “The Queen’s Love,” a blank-verse
tragedy of James VI. of Scotland and his
queen. “Regulus,” begun in the “wilds of
Tasmania,” and “De Rullecourt, or Jersey
Invaded” (both tragedies) followed. An-
other effort, “Our First Lieutenant,” was
produced at the Caledonian Theatre, Edin-
burgh, on January 6, 1830, “continuing a
triumphant career of many successive nights”
elsewhere.
“Hamfat”: When the M.L. National
Repertory Theatre Society delivered itself of
“The Man with the Load of Mischief” at
the. Wellington Town Hall on January 29, it
registered its fifth successful production since
its start in May of last year. Its other pro-
ductions were Pshaw’s “Pygmalion,” Clem-
ence Dane’s “A Bill of Divorcement,”
Milne’s “Ariadne,” and Olipliant Downs’s “A
Maker of Dreams.” Included in the casts
is Mollie Plimmer, who should be the
daughter of actor Harkus Plimmer, brother
0 -S H 2ff y » wh ° m F“? and settled down out-
side the profession in M.L. du Cliatejfo.
who directs the society and its shows, was
at one time a comedian who favored broad
lines and red wigs; liis performance of a
stalwart and intensely serious hero in one
play was one of the funniest this writer has
seen. But with whatever show lie happened
to be, Leo was always pushed into a stage-
managerial job, and that speaks well for his
capacity as a trainer of the raw idea.
“Curtain-raiser”: A dramatic tire like the
Caulfield Guineas stand blaze is at any rate
a godsend to the local movie operator. \
new department of the movie business has
grown up in Hollywood called the “quickies ”
The “quickies” have no studio or definite
location. They get hold of a scenario, fre-
quently pinched, round up a few low-paid
supers and hire a noted film darling for a
day. The star then runs through the various
emotions demanded of him or her wherever
they occur in the story, not necessarily in
sequence; and if an ornate interior is re-
quired, the corner of a drawing-room or a
marble bath may be hired for 10 minutes
from one of the established firms. Then
there are innumerable bureaux which stock
indexed bits of lilm representing every pos-
sible line of scenery or background of inci-
dent imaginable, and collected from every
part of the world. The “quickie” producer
rings up for 20ft. of Paris cabaret or Mexi-
can bandit, and it is around in half an hour.
The rest of the drammer is thus inexpen-
sively put together and in due course
launched upon a gaping world as a million-
dollar spectacle. As there was a cinemato-
graph man on the job at Caulfield, punters
may yet see their favorite stamping-ground
figuring in an “all-American” film master-
piece.
“Gumsucker”: I witnessed a Christmas
production of “Hansel and Gretel” at one of
Berlin’s three opera houses. The show was
beautifully produced at popular prices. Any
amount of money was spent on it and there
was an orchestra of 50. The production we
saw in Melbourne a few years ago put
on in English by a local co. was better,
though on a smaller scale. Yet the Mel-
bourne co.’s production languished while at
about the same time people fought to get
into the shows of the Grand Opera Co.
delivered in a foreign tongue. The operas
in Berlin and Vienna are produced in
German, at Budapest in Hungarian, and
even at Bucharest in Roumanian, by law;
no foreign tongue will be tolerated in
operas in these countries except when a
distinguished foreign artist is invited to take
part, in which case he sometimes sings in
Italian or French. Yet in Australia, if grand
opera isn’t produced in a language we can’t
understand or by people who don’t under-
stand us, it can’t be any good. Why?
M. G. Skipper: I gather confusedly from
Randolph Bedford’s remarks (B. 17/2/127)
that I am not to say what I think of the
modern American play because I buy so
many things from U.S.A. that it has a trade
balance against Australia of 180 million
dollars; because I use American genius in
the construction of buildings; and because I
pay much money for American jungle noises
and jazz. I do none of these things, so I
shall continue with a light heart to say that
the type of Yankee play imported by Aus-
tralian entrepeneurs is a poor type, even
if it pleases Bedford more than Barrie does.
This isn’t to say that good plays are not
being written in the United States. I cite
the works of O’Neill, “What Price Glory?”
and others which the local student will have
to be content with reading until chicken-
hearted producers show a little moral cour-
age. To put all the blame upon the herd,
as Bedford does, is to ignore the existence
of that large body of discriminating citizens
who stay at home until a Pavlova, a Chali-
apin or a Backhaus comes along. If they
had offered to them drama as good as Pav-
lova’s dancing or Backhaus’s singing, they
would come to it—as the public came in
London to “Macbeth,” brilliantly staged and
acted, and hence the star attraction of that
metropolis for three months of the recent
Christmas season.
“Goldilocks”: Progress in picture-theatre
building is rapidly making the “gorgeous
palaces” of the past appear almost like
hovels; the last word—until the next —is to
be the £400,000 building going up on the land
where Sydney Evening News offices stood
in Market-street and the Globe Theatre was
in George-street. The building will go up to
the limit of 15 storeys; and, besides the
picture-house with an assembly hall outside,
having a ceiling 80ft. from the ground, there
will be room for a new arcade with shops.
The assembly hall will be furnished like an
art gallery, and have lounge seats and a band
to amuse the people who wait for some of the
4uoo cushioned seats inside the theatre to
become vacant. It is not 20 years since
the Lyric, the first house specially built
in Sydney for pictures, was opened with
a great shrilling of trumpets by J. D. Wil-
liams ; before that, the “flicks” were shown
in any old hall that might be available. But
the Lyric nowadays looks a mere barn com-
pared with places like the Prince Edward.
UP GOES THE CURTAIN I
[FOR THE BULLETIN. ]
The house is filled;
The “tra-la-la”
Of the orchestra
Is swiftly stilled
With a final bang of drums.
Out goes the light;
And forward bent,
We wait intent ;
For this first night
With expectation hums.
Intense the strain.
Upon the stalls
Deep silence falls.
We ask again
When will the curtain rise?
How long it’s been !
What shall we find
That cloth behind?
What pretty scene
Will beckon to our eyes?
In vain we stare;
The curtain waits;
All noise abates—
That moment rare
With expectation keen!
And boredom goes,
And comes a thrill
Our souls to fill,
When each one knows
Here comes the opening scene.
Our breath we hold
In deep suspense;
The moment’s tense.
What will unfold
When this grim pause is past?
The theatre’s packed
With hopes and fears.
The tension clears;
Here’s the first act.
The curtain’s up at last!
N.S.W.
A. H. A.


D
4
r
4
i
i ,
!!ii
il!' 1 ! 1
!|!!
i Hi!
ii I
liiiii iiiiliiiii
H h
i S'
Hi!
liiiimi
i iiiji j
I 111 l 111 Hill
With
immiii >
!M
II!!
i n
The Australian Invention
that is revolutionising Night Driving!
DAZZLE g GLARE POSITIVELY ABOLISHED
BRIGHT LIGHTS CAN BE SAFE
Hitherto strong headlights have been dangerous, lives have
been lost by the score —but now Casselite Reflectors positively
eliminate dazzle and actually improve the light. Night driving
is now as safe as in daylight. The difficulty, uncertainty and
continuous danger of night driving has at last yielded to
correctly-applied scientific principles, and now thousands of
motorists drive at night with the fullest possible confidence.
Danger and hardships are once again conquered by the skill
of man’s inventive genius. The weapon which has slain the
Demon Glare is the Casselite Glareless Reflector.
HOW CASSELITE ACCOMPLISHES THIS
The glare-eliminating medium is contained solely in the
CASSELITE Reflector, which is simply placed within any
standard head-lamp reflector. No alteration whatsover io
required to be made to existing equipment, and the conversion
of standard head-lamps from “glaring” to glareless is made
in only a few seconds without the aid of tools or complex
instructions. The usual glass bulb may be retained, and
illumination that is not only glareless, shadowless and
thoroughly diffused, but actually improved in quality, is
obtained. In order to secure road illumination similar to day-
light, it is desirable to employ as a light source a standard,
bluish-green ‘“daylight glass.”
THESE CASSELITE FEATURES ARE GUARANTEED
(1) Entirely eliminates all dazzle and glare.
(2) Actually gives more and better light.
(3) Cheap to buy.
(4) Easily installed by anyone, without tools or fittings, in a few seconds.
(5) Costs absolutely nothing extra to run.
(6) Permanent. Has no working parts, cannot wear out, requires no after-adjustment.
Fit CASSELITE Reflectors now! To do so is a measure for your own and others’ safety
that is the manifest duty of every motorist. Night driving is now made absolutely safe,
because dazzle and glare are positivelv and permanently abolished.
Already orders for more than thirty thousand sets of CASSELITE Reflectors have been
received; proof positive that this invention fulfils every claim made for it. You have only
to fit “CASSELITE” to recognise that here indeed is the most wanted invention of this
motor age.
A Money-Back Guarantee,
Every set of CASSELITE Reflec-
tors is sold on this condition in
your favor. You may use them for
14 clear days, and then return
them if not perfectly satisfied, and
your money will be refunded in
full without question.
30 1
Per Set.
All the light is used right with—
CASSELITE
GLARELESS
REFLECTORS
CHIEF AUSTRALIAN DISTRIBUTORS —
REG. LIINTON & CO.,
Australia House, Carrington Street, Sydney.
METROPOLITAN DISTRIB UTORS—
HIPSLEYS, LTD.,
Permanent Fitting Station, 27-37 Palmer Street, Sydney.
VICTORIAN AGENTS—
GEORGE DOWNER & CO.,
Henty House, 499 Little Collins Street, Melbourne. Tel.: F 2591.
TASMANIAN AGENTS—
C. LEE BROWN,
“Yaucluse,” Edington Crescent. Mowbray, Launceston. Tasmania.
Telephone: 973. Mail Orders: Box 1778 P. 0., Launceston.
[Goldberg.]
Showing simple method
of fitting.
• «08
•»e 0
30
SET
PER
FITTED
A* ** ■'
/&w
/ \° i* /A
/ A !-■
/ Q** aft'
e. ,ftV
v% .eN\c>
/&/&
K //r
(T// F*y ,-•■
• ' " A»'
o'(
.O / eft
X o
' \O % . "ft 1 A-A 6
/ cSVft
ft* N #
A<
•V
r c?
ft)-


V •
mm
gj 1 ;
■
m
m
1
m
■
m
mi
1
1
r ” ’
. m'js
1
‘ 1$ -
s
I!
I
mi.
M. 3
Before
Starting Out
Shopping, social duties and # ■
the many calls upon modern
women are fatiguing. A little
” sprinkled on the hand-
kerchief and inhaled will make you feel yourself
again.
Always ask for with the Blue and Gold
Label. It is the Eau de Cologne with an established
reputation of nearly 1 50 years, for sustained fragrance
and absolute purity.
Sole Agents for Australasia:—
PARKER, BLAU & CO.,
8 O Connell Street, Sydney. 308 Flinders Lane, Melbourne.
mu.
aude
oloPn e


Amusements,
jy|AJESTIC THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
Everybody’s Favorites,
MATT MOORE and MARIE PREVOST, in
HIS JAZZ BRIDE.
All about a flapper wife.
fiox Plan at Allan’s & Theatre. ’Phone 7076 & 7790.
HOYT’S DE LUXE THEATRE.
1 1 MELBOURNE.
James Oliver Curwood’s
THE FLAMING FOREST,
with RENEE ADORE and ANTONIO MORENO.
ALSO
THE UNKNOWN CAVALIER,
with KEN MAYNARD.
Prices as usual.
Legal Notices.
GEORGE JACKSON deceased.
PURSUANT to an Order of the Chancery Division
of the High Court of Justice dated the 17th
day of December 1925 and made in an action in the
Matter of the Trusts of the Will of George Jackson
deceased (late of Vale View Whitehaven in the
County of Cumberland England who died on the Ist
day of May 1887) McGowan v. McLaughlin 1924 J.
1896 Whereby the following inquiry w.as directed
viz.: (1) An inquiry whether Samuel Dyer one of the
children of the Testator George Jac-kson’s sister
Agnes in the said Will called Agnes Pearcy the wife
of E. J. Pearcy is living or dead and if dead when
he died and who is his personal representative.
NOTICE is hereby given that all persons claiming
to be entitled under the said inquiry are on or before
fie Bth day of June 1927 to send by post prepaid
to Oliver Fray Ormrod of Whitehaven aforesaid
their full Christian and surnames addresses and
descriptions and full particulars of their claims or in
default thereof they will be excluded from the benefit
of the said Order unless the Court or Judge on
application otherwise orders. Claimants are to
attend personally or by their Solicitor before Master
Hughes-Onslow at the Chambers of the Judge Room
No. 162 Royal Courts of Justice Strand London
England on Wednesday the 15th day of June 1927
at 11.30 o’clock in the forenoon being the time
appointed for adjudicating upon the claims.
A CLAIMANT not residing in England or Wales
must send with particulars of his claim the name and
address of a person in England or Wales to whom
notices to the Claimant can be sent.
Dated this 17th day of January 1927.
H. HUGHES-ONSLOW, Master.
Helder, Roberts, Giles & Co., 12 New Court, Carey
Street, London W.C.2, Agents for Brockbank, Helder
and Ormrod, Whitehaven, Solicitors for the Plaintiff.
HE CHARLES THORNTON DECEASED.
PURSUANT to an Order of the Chancery
1 Division of the High Court of Justice
dated the 7th day of December 1926 and
made in an action in the Matter of the Trusts
of the last Will of Charles Thornton deceased
(late of Leeds in the County of York who
died on the 3rd August 1881) Hirst against
Evans (1926.T.800) whereby the following
inquiry was directed viz.:—
“1. An Inquiry whether any and which of
the brothers and sisters of the said Testator
or his said wife were still living at the date
aforesaid (the Ist March 1925) and whether
any and what children of any of the said
brothers and sisters who died before the said
date were still living at such date and as to
each such brother or sister or child living at
the date aforesaid whether he or she is still
living or if dead when he or she died and
who are his or her respective personal repre-
sentatives.”
NOTICE is hereby given that all persons
claiming to be entitled under the said Inquiry
are on or before the 16th day of June 1927
to send by post prepaid to Donald Turnbull
of 98 Albion Street Leeds in the County of
York Solicitor their full Christian and sur-
names addresses and descriptions and full
particulars of their claims or in default
thereof they will be excluded from the benefit
of the said Order unless the Court or Judge
on application otherwise orders.
CLAIMANTS are to attend personally or
by their Solicitor before Master H. W. Jelf
at the Chambers of the Judge Room No. 315
Royal Courts of Justice Strand London on
Thursday the 23rd day of June 1927 at 12
o’clock noon being the time appointed for
adjudicating upon the claims.
A Claimant not residing in England or
Wales must send with particulars of his
claim the name and address of a person in
England or Wales to whom notices to the
claimant can be sent.
Dated the 17th day of January 1927.
HERBERT W. JELF,
Master.
NOTE. —Charles Thornton the Testator
was a son of David Thornton and Mary
Millner. He was married to Hannah Hobson
in 1854 and she died in 1886..
The persons more particularly inquired
after are the following brothers and sisters
of the Testator and their children namely:—
John Thornton and Samuel Thornton who
are believed to have died without leaving
issue. Thomas Thornton who was married
and had children of whom William Thorn-
ton and Henry Thornton are believed to
be still living, James Thornton who was
married and is believed to have emigrated
to Australia in 1854 and who was known
to have been in England in 1897 but to
have then returned to Australia, Abraham
Thornton who is believed to have died in
Leeds and to have had two sons who were
at one time living in London, Eleanor
Thornton who was twice married first to
James Warner Moxon by whom she is
believed to have had one son and secondly
to John Richardson by whom she had two
children one of whom John Richardson
is believed to have emigrated to Australia.
JACQUES AND CO., 8 Ely Place, Lon-
don, E.C.1.. England. Agents for Scott and
Turnbull, of Leeds, England, Solicitors for
the Plaintiff.
Missing Friends.
ROBERT JOYCE (JUNIOR).
WILL the above (formerly of Hampstead),
who emigrated to Western Australia in
November, 1919, please communicate with
LAKE & SON, Solicitors, 61 Carey Street,
London, when he will learn something to his
advantage.
if any illustration in The Bulletin takes
your fancy, write to the Manager, who will
quote you price for the original.
By Appointment to
&8
H.M. King George V .
NEW ROADS FOR
TASMANIA
The illustration shows the type of Leyland 4-ton
Tipping Lorry, fourteen of which have recently
been ordered by the Tasmanian Government for
road-construction purposes.
Large fleets of Leyland Lorries are used to a
remarkable extent by Government Departments,
principally for heavy work such as road-making,
where the utmost reliability and stamina are
necessary.
Leyland is proud of its association with the pro-
gressive building of National Roads throughout
the Commonwealth.
LEYLAND LORRIES FOR ROADS
PRICES OF STANDARD AUSTRALIAN CHASSIS
Ex Sydney and Melbourne Works:
2- £720
3- £B5O
4- £1075
5- £llB5
ENGLAND
HEAD OFFICE
24 GROSVENOR ST
- SYDNEY ••
SERVICE STATION
AUSTRALIA ST.
CAMPERDOWN
TELEPHONES 8.7951-8.7952 TELEGRAMS LEYMOTORS-SVDNEY


UNIQUE NOVELTY.
PENCIL-PENKNIFE COMBINATION, pro-
pelling and repelling pencil, with concealed
Penknife at rear. Xylonite finished in six colors.
ONLY 1/6 each, or 16/- per dozen.
Will sell at sight at 2/6 each.
AUSTRALASIAN MERCANTILE
COMPANY, LTD.,
167 CLARENCE STREET, CITY.
GOLFERS—IT PAYS TO PLAY
THE SUPER
CHALLENGER
The Ball that makes good golf a certainty.
Sole Wholesale Distributors:
NORMAN L. BURNELL & 00. (N.S.W.), Ltd.
Sydney, Melbourne, Adelaide, Brisbane, Perth. [ 2
Amusements,
SYDNEY’S CHIEF THEATRES.
J. O. WILLIAMSON, LTD., present
HER MAJESTY’S: TELL ME MORE.
CRITERION: TEA FOR THREE.
ROYAL: THE MIKADO.
PALACE: HULLO, HEALO!
SYDNEY’S BEST SHOWS.
Direction Sir Benjamin Fuller & Mr. John Fuller.
ST. JAMES: IS ZAT SO?
FULLERS’ THEATRE:
FULLERS’ VAUDEVILLE.
RICKARDS’ TIVOLI THEATRES.
Lessees: Harry Kickards’ Tivoli Theatres, Ltd.
MELBOURNE and SYDNEY.
TWICE EVERY DAY—2.3O and 8.
CELEBRITY VAUDEVILLE.
The World’s Best.
J C. WILLIAMSON, LTD.,
MELBOURNE ATTRACTIONS.
HIS MAJESTY’S:
ROSE MARIE.
KING’S THEATRE:
THE LAST OF NIRS. CHEYNEY.
PRINCESS THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
Proprietors: Sir Benjamin Fuller and John Fuller.
Sole Direction Allan Wilkie.
ALLAN WILKIE and MISS HUNTER-WATTS
IN A SEASON OF SHAKSPEAREAN PLAYS,
Commencing FEBRUARY 26,
with the Famous Pageant Play,
HENRY VIII.
ATHENAEUM THEATRE,
MELBOURNE.
Proprietor: Frank Talbot Pty., Ltd.
Lessee: E. J. Carroll.
EVERY EVENING AT 8.15.
E. J. CARROLL presents
THE GHOST TRAIN.
LAUGHABLE COMEDY WITH A THRILL.
Played by E. J. Carroll’s London Comedy Company.
|\|EW BIJOU THEATRE, MELBOURNE
Twice Daily, 2.30 and 8.
GEORGE WALLACE REVUE CO.
Popular Prices. Plan Cen. 3261.
Legal Notice.
'Y'O THOMAS ALFRED HUMBLE late of Payneham
in the State of South Australia Farmer.
TAKE NOTICE that a Citation bearing date the
third day of September 1926 has been issued in the
Supreme Court of South Australia citing you to
appear and answer the Petition of Mona Cranston
Humble of Wellington-road Payneham in the said
State Married Woman praying for a dissolution
of her marriage with you AND IN DEFAULT of
your so appearing you will not be allowed to address
the Court and the Court will proceed to hear the
said Petition and to pronounce sentence therein.
THEREFORE TAKE NOTICE that for the purpose
aforesaid you are within ninety days from the date
of the publication of this advertisement to attend in
person or by your solicitor at the Supreme Court
Victoria Square Adelaide aforesaid and there to enter
an appearance in accordance with the rules in that
behalf.
(L.s.) W. L. STUART.
Master.
BEASLEY JAMES WILLIAM KEARNEY, of National
Chambers, 22 King William Street, Adelaide,
Petitioner’s Solicitor.
If any illustration in The Bulletin tabes
your fancy, write to the Manager, who will
quote you price for the original.
THE
WOMAN’S MIRROR
Published Every Tuesday
Is the most popular 64-page
woman’s paper published in
the Commonwealth. It features
everything a woman ought to
know. Once you read it you
will never be without it.
Its up-to-date weekly pattern
is free for the asking.
Published by
The Bulletin Newspaper Co.,
214 George Street, Sydney.
1
What Chance Would
He Have
—if you suddenly surprised a fox while
the Colt .22 Automatic Pistol swung in a
holster on your belt ?
Ten vicious, expanding point bullets can be aimed, and fired
with the unerring accuracy of a rifle from this weapon in less
than half as many seconds.
If the first misses, there are nine more at the instantaneous
command of your trigger finger to follow relentlessly in pur-
suit ....
£7/17/6
Post
i Free
Could He Escape Such Deadly Machine-gun Fire Directed by YOUR Hand?
Write for further particulars and special leaflet “B” concerning this extraordinary weapon. It
is super-accurate, absolutely reliable, safe, and—well, nothing in the world is everlasting, but
this pistol is very nearly so.
COWLES & DUNN
(The Oldest-established Gunmakers in Australia), 453 KENT STREET, SYDNEY.
’Phone: M 3388.
I
mm
i
3?
i Treat t
(hat is different ...SehghifuLl
YOU CAN EASILY
SERVE IT AT
HOME.
Dissolve 8 level tea-
spoonfuls of Instant
Postum in half a cup
of boiling water. Mix
with three and one-
half tall glasses of cold
milk. Sugar to taste,
and serve with a little
cracked ice.
This is a sufficient
quantity for four tall
glasses. More, or
less, may be
made in the
same propor-
tions.
I
DOSTUM is made of whole wheat and
* bran roasted to bring out the full.
rich flavour. There isn’t a trace of
cafTein or any other artificial stimulant in
it. Prepared in the usual way, with
water, it is as wholesome a drink as you
could want —and combined with milk, it
is a wonderful body-builder. Children,
too, will gain from the milk drink a
wealth of growth-promoting nourishment.
Serve Iced Postum at dinner to-night, and
listen to the family’s praise of your dis-
covery! You’ll find Instant Postum at
your grocer’s.
Wholesale Agents:
LEWIS & CULL,
316 Pitt Street, Sydney.
Indigestion !
That’s its name, INDIGESTION—the enemy of health and all which
make for happiness and contentment and the joy of living.
But why allow this distressing, spirit-reducing complaint to hold
sway over you! Why allow yourself to be dejected and despondent
—to go through life with a peaked face and run-down look, when
at the nearest Store or Pharmacy you can purchase a bottle of
that renowned Indigestion Remedy:
KRUSE’S .
BuidM^ 9
Even one dose of this sterling preparation will convince yon of
its genuine character.
KRUSE’S FLUID MAGNESIA will gently-but surely-expel from
your system the cause of your digestive ailments. It will make
for health and wholesomeness in the stomach, sweeten the breath,
cool and purify the blood, and induce the feeling of
fitness and keenness of early youth.
For Family use the large bottles
at 2/9 each are more economical.
KRUSE’S benefits people of all ages; and is the purest, safest,
and most reliable medicine you can take for an upset stomach.
FELTON, GRIMWADE & CO. PTY. LTD.
MELBOURNE.
SOLO EVERYWHERE
m
ip ii
Answers to Correspondents.
No notice (except of a hostile character) will he
taken of communications insufficiently stamped.
Name and address must appear on the MS. No
liability is undertaken re contributions volun-
tarily submitted ; and no MS. will be returned
unless stamps accompany.
L.R.8.: The “Dance” verse is a break-
down.... 8.T.: He discusses a business proposition,
remembers the war, and decides to keep out of it.
No interest in that....P. Will: The co-operative
story isn’t bad, but you do wallow in words
T. MacC.: Humor, like grilled steak, is spoiled by
being overdone M.A.P.: Fails... .W.H.M.: Too
obviously manufactured... .CJ.A.T.: Try to break our
tender heart, would you?....Pat: “Australia—hail
her”—alas 1.... Isobel L.: Not sufficient interest....
G. 5.0.: It’s all p00r.... J.W.W.: Just joggles along to
its end... .D.1.L.: This reader... .oh, wowser
reader... .kind reader” habit makes a wooden story
more wooden. And it has completely woodened yours.
Dell W.: The deceptive jewel has been done
better. And she has done people better.... Paul 0.:
Below par....M.L. (S. Bris.) : “Weather-header” is
dreadful. .. .M.G.: A pathetic fragment:—
She was bred in far-off Dixie,
But she had no luck at all,
For the villain who betrayed her
Was the cause of Ettie’s fall.
She was young and so romantic,
With big notions in her head
To be a star in movie pictures;
And now my little friend is dead. ■
.... Mary J. G.: Parts of it have all the inspiration
of a catalogue W.L.: That sonnet must be get-
ting footsore —it’s going back again .H.W.: Your
martial song saddened us... .A.L.H.: Weak idea....
F. : Certainly... .Cam D.: Hanged itself in a
rope of verbiage... .F.K.: Too long-drawn-0ut....
N.L.S.: These dream stories are nightmares to us.
. ...P.W.: You must learn what to leave out, first.
The yarn is poor melodrama, anyway, and too long.
. ...W.8.: Lunacy story wanders to an ineffectual
end... .W.McA.: Dear Bill!... .Pat: The jogtrot
never gets you anywhere.... Mrs. D. B. (Gisborne):
Reference to Rupert Brooke prize last week....
J. J. 8.: “But before my weeping eyes she was
called to Paradise” is a burst of bathos....
B. : Only a par. in it....J.H.: Common-
place... .A.R.: We very nearly laughed.... Ken
C. : Poor stuff... .R.C.H.: Don’t know which is the
worse, the verse or the drawing... .A.R.J.: Inter-
ested in “the stream whose life has been eternal.”
When did it cease to be eternal?... .R.M.0.: You
want “the truth about its literary value.” Can’t
express it in print... .J.P.M.: There should have
been no need for the telegram M.L.L.: Sketch
too slight.... Eva G.: It went very near acceptance.
The theme is slightly artificial, however. .. .A.J.:
These “clever” conversations are usually dreadfully
stupid.... Mrs. S.: Found the parable du11... .Nellie
G. : Descriptive article not in our line... .H.M.: It’s
a curious hash. Here’s a helping:—
Land of space and sunshine, riches untold,
Here problems, all sorts, give promise to skill,
A great school, were britons may wings unfold,
Content when love only directs all will.
Grinding its people, a great emery wheel,
Droughts, fires, flies, some barren spaces, too;
But progress is real, the workroom’s ideal,
Heaven need not blush for the kangaroo.
Man is chief martyr in evolution’s wheel.
Cause and effect, that law, great, unchangeable,
Robbing him of loved ones, heartless deals,
Man the sinner? Away with such babel.
C.B. (Quilpie): Not quite up; have used
personal note... .W.H.C.: What sort of a man gives
his bride away like that?... .Cudg: A mere slinging
together of wooden poetic properties.... A.A. Y.: They
broke the engagement; they met again; they married.
Too thrilling... .D.G.S.: The argument is that when-
ever a new-fledged seagull’s cry is heard, some sailor
dies. And several sailors drink rum —that would
make a more cheerful conclusion... .J. 8.0.: Ode of
welcome basketed.... Ben G.: Might get a par or
two out of it....C.H.: Throats of black and white.”
Do you mean throats full of whisky?... .A.S.: Feeble.
. ...T.L.: Don’t be so dismal... .Bell erive: Nemesis
comes with commendable promptitude on the heels
of your “Mutiny”:—
Thro the tyrannous of the captain
Grim trouble did ensue,
Which developed into mutiny
Among the desperate crew.
Afloat on the wide Atlantic,
Outbound on a lengthy trip.
Tragedy most appalling
Did crimson the cargo ship.
Brained fell the hated captain,
By the corpse of he’s bullying son;
Like fiends of Hell the mutineer’s.
Revelled o’er the deed they’d done.
Up the rigging a spy did scramble.
From the grasp of a sailor named Tait.
Who blurted, “Shiver my timbers,”
And followed to seal he’s fate.
“Mongrel I’ll get you,” he bellowed,
“Like a wolf I thirst for your blood.”
At a height they grappled together,
When they fell to the deck with a thud.
The wretches encountered foul weather.
As they tossed o’er the frothy main.
Rum maddened they argued and blasphemed,
But never saw land again.
.... Mary C. E.: The brooklet verses flowed into the
w.p.b W.J.T.: No, We don’t “bind our hair with
holly”—not in The Bulletin. .. .Naida G.: Slight.
. ...L.G.W.: Might do elsewhere. .. .F. A. H.: Only
a long-drawn-out paragraph. .. .W. 8.: Goes very close.
. ...V.G.W.: Day’s three broad divisions are too
overworked poetically to carry your verses.... Pat :
You’d give yourself a better chance if you abandoned
the jog-trot for, say, a gallop... .G.A.R.: “Bellerive,”
who lives in Tasmania, and sends us his photo-
graph every Christmas, wanted the blood of the
last man who said he didn’t exist. .. .L.L.8.: They
probably fell off the doorstep of acceptance....
A.D.L.: Your landscape is full of dead timber....
Sadie J.: Beauties have to be unfurled to rhyme with
world, we know, but we don’t like ’em that way.
T.R.R.: Weak and trite. .. .W.E.8.: A light
thought like that should be tersely expressed....
L.A.S.: Not so much a story as a history.
TO ARTISTIC (AND INARTISTIC)
CORRESPONDENTS.
U.D.: Nine gags, mostly incomprehensible, attached
to nine incredible drawings... .R.C.: Not in our line.
... .J.S.: Lacking both in knowledge and application.
. ...T.R.: A subject that a Hogarth might envy,
but a drawing that Binghi might beat... .G.W.R.:
Now that you have got that off your chest we hope
you will give us a rest... .C.A.R.C.: Joke didn’t find
the g0a1... .McF.: You’re a flagrant artistic .sinner. ...
U. : What we took for Walter Raleigh kneeling
before Queen Bess turned out to be a couple of boys
playing marbles... .T.P.: As inspiring as an under-
taker’s trade advt... .G.T.C.H.: Marriage has been
viewed that way before. .. .U.S.: No punch in the
immigrant joke; other drawing off your beat....
E.R.A.: Not up to scratch.... K.U.F.: We would
never hold our heads up again if that were published.
. ...T.L.: Worse than the efforts children chalk on
walls.


Ml
QrO
l. H
6A
Learn to
DRAW
There are many things you see and
hear that can be turned into money
if you could draw.
There is an enormous, demand from
Newspapers, Magazines, Advertisers,
etc., for illustrations, and they pay
high prices for them.
THE HARRY J. WESTON
POSTAL SCHOOL of DRAWING
takes you step by step by simple lessons until you have mastered the
art of drawing, and all through the course you have personal
instruction from Mr. Harry J. Weston, Australia’s well-known
Poster Artist. Mr. Weston teaches you to DRAW—not to copy.
The lessons are pleasant and interesting and there is no drudgery.
Send your name and address and three stamps for Mr. Weston’s
Booklet, entitled “THERE’S MONEY IN THE PEN,’’ which tells
all about the course, fees, etc., and gives examples of the lessons.
THE HARRY J. WESTON
POSTAL SCHOOL OF DRAWING
50 Waltham Building,
24 BOND STREET, SYDNEY.
Si '
“There’s
Money
in
the
Pen.”
i outse
r cf
I &//
on fo/? o/* //r# world!
>e*rv
Take the Canadian Pacific route to
Europe and linger awhile at Lake
Louise —pride of Canada’s thou-
sand enchantments.
On every side of this famous Rocky
Mountain resort are scenes of beauty —
from towering snow-draped peaks to glisten-
ing glaciers.
From the time you board the
Motor Liner" AORANGI" or
the popular "NIAGARA" at
Sydney until you arrive in
England, fast Canadian
Pacific steamers and trains
carry you in luxurious com-
fort and from start to finish
of this wonderful journey
you are assured of the re-
nowned C.PR. courtesy and
service.
For Illustrated Literature
and particulars apply any
office of the Union S.S. Co.
of N. Z .any Tourist Booking
Agency or J. Sclater, Re-
presentative. Union House,
247 George Street, Sydney.
\dflll I!
mink
Vimn
EuPt
ffrt n'H-VT-Ti
/gtaoaaaj
YmsrgmEJ&
c Jrai/el via
CANADIAN PACIFIC RAILWAY.
HOLDS MORE INK
Onoto, the Pen, has for years been the busy man’s pen. The
ease with which it fills and cleans itself, its readiness to write when-
ever wanted, its absolute security from leakage, and the fact that it
holds 50 per cent, more ink than any other self-filling pen, has
gained for Onoto, the Pen, the first place.
THOMAS DE LA RUE & CO. LTD.
110 Bunhill Row, London, E.C. 1.
Representatives: Norman Baker & Longhuret
50 York Street. Sydney.
ONOTO INK —Best for all Pens.
d
Safety
Britain’s
Largest
Car
Distributors.
I I
■ »
in®
'\
A
m
p'
c
'(
A
<lll2
S
1 1-h.p. Clyno with 56in. Track. The light
car that has proved itself ideal for
Overseas conditions.
DEVONSHIRE HOUSE, PICCADILLY, LONDON, W.l
Cables: “Rootesmoti, London.” ENGLAND . Codes: Bentley’s and ABC sth Editioa
British cars have more than their origin to
recommend them —it is their sturdy, enduring
quality that has given them supremacy in the
markets of the world.
It pays the motorist to buy a picked British car,
specially designed for Overseas conditions,
from the Houses that are associated with
Rootes Ltd.’s export organisation.
Rootes, Ltd., were pioneers of
the group system of distribut-
ing. Their success is an asset
to the car purchaser, for they
handle only the best cars of
their class.
Home-coming motorists can
obtain from any Rootes author-
ised dealer particulars of a
scheme under which they can
avail themselves of a Guaran-
teed Re-purchase principle.
ROLLS-ROYCE
SUNBEAM
HILLMAN
CLYNO
THRUPP & MABERLY,
Coachwork.
DISTRIBUTORS:
CARS OF ENGLAND, LTD.,
173-175 Elizabeth St., Sydney.
BARLOW MOTORS,
20-28 Latrobe St., Melbourne.
CANADA CYCLE AND MOTOR-
CYCLE AGENCY,
Cr. Creek and Adelaide Sts.,
Brisbane.
ROBERT DICKSON & CO.,
900 Hay St., Perth, W.A.
REO MOTORS, LTD.,
96 Franklin St., Adelaide.


r f
How to Build an
yof Ideal Home c\
Plan to make your new home perma-
nently durable and artistie by build-
ing its exterior and interior walls and
ceilings with “FIBROLITE” Asbes-
tos Cement Sheets —the Fire Retard-
ant and White Ant Proof Building
Material that Improves with Age.
Consider, too, that a “FIBROLITE” Home
will cost you actually less to build than
a weatherboard house'. You will save 25
per cent, in insurance premiums. Not re-
quiring painting, the “upkeep” costs of a
“FIBROLITE” dwelling are practically nil.
Our large illustrated catalogue will give
you plans and full particulars.
Write for Free Catalogue " B
James Hardie 8i Coy. Ltd.
Cnr. York & Wynyard Streets, Sydney.
A.M.P. Bldgs. Queen Street, Brisbane.
581-83 Little Collins Street, Melbourne.
FIBROLITE
ASBESTOS - CEMENT SHEETS
A Clip Well Grown
may be half sold. But work half done does not hit
the mark. You want full value for the clip. And
the work of a competent salesman is essential to
produce it. That is where the advantage arises in
accepting this advice —
SEND THE WOOL TO
WINCHCOIVIBE, CARSON
LTD.
Selling Brokers, Sydney, or Brisbane.
Success constantly attends the firm’s efforts in
obtaining top figures for owners at the sales.
Death to
Fues AND
Ants/!;
9
ISS;
m
mw
OSAHT
ijERWNAK
&
"Cddi
uons
life- )FLY & AMT
XTERMINATOR
ii
Empty contents
of tin on a piece
of moistened flannel
and place on a dish
where flies, etc., are
numerous.
Kills
Flies, Fleas,
Cockroaches,
Borer, Ants,
Bedbugs, etc.
d
mam agents:- hi
DUERDIM & SAINSBURY LTD
ALL AUSTRALIANS visiting London
r\ should read the British Australian
and New Zealander, 6d. weekly—-an illus-
trated paper containing mail and cable news
from Australia and news of Australians in
Europe and at home. Australians are cordi-
ally invited to visit the British Australian
and New Zealander Reading-room at the
Offices, 414-17 Australia House, Strand,
London, WC.2, where they can see the home
papers, meet their friends, use the telephone
and obtain information without charge.
Copies of the paper and general information
can be obtained at the Australian Advertis-
ing Agency. Ltd.. 350 George Street, Sydney;
or 434 Collins Street, Melbourne.
“THE WOMAN’S MIRROR.”
PRICE 3d.
Contains everything a woman needs to know.
TUDOR
ACCUMULATORS
for Reliability and Long Life.
Australasian Office—
TUDOR ACCUMULATOR CO., LTD.,
Culwulla Chambers, Castlereagh Street, SYDNEY.
ď
“CLYDE
BATTERIES”
For RADIO, MOTOR-CARS AND
COUNTRY HOME LIGHTING.
THE CLYDE ENGINEERING COMPANY, Ltd.,
Granville; and Goulburn Street, Sydney, N.S.W.
or PLAIN
eiC De
—of course
£S>i
V' '/<«
k\
*
yjvm. i j
A new world
conquered
With De Reszke Virginias at ten for ninepence, the
name De Reszke conquers a new world of smokers.
Here at last is the famous “Cigarette for the Few”
brought within the reach of the many. You
will want to try it. Buy a packet early to-day f
while your tobacconist still has supplies.
Every cigarette that bears the name DE RESZKE
must needs be the very best in its class; otherwise
the “ goodwill” value of the name —at present
beyond compute —would be endangered. That is
your guarantee that the new De Reszke Virginias
will always preserve their present high quality.
De Reszke
(popularly pronounced “ DE RES-KEY”)
Virginias
TWENTY FOR ONE AND SIX
In 10’s, 20’s, 50’s and 100*5
J. MILLHOFF 8C CO. LTD., 86, PICCADILLY, LONDON, W.l
Agents for N. S. Wales: DALGETY & COMPANY LTD.
Business. Robbery, etc.
“Harold Hardupp”: The march of the
softgoods firms which are rapidly occupying
the George-Park-Pitt-Market street section
of Sydney went another step when Gowings
bought what used to be “John Hunter’s
Corner” —George and Market streets —for a
trifle of £145,000. Gowings have some more
land alongside their new purchase, and a
massive building is to rise on the
former blocks. The whole area will soon
be dominated by the four big mercery firms
which began there in quite a small way.
Adams’ Hotel, the Palace Theatre and the
new picture palace which is to go up on
the site of the old Evening News office
will be mere rocks in a sea of haberdashery.
* * * *
“Bill Bowyang”: The attempt to intro-
duce a £lO,OOO tomato-pulping factory to
Bowen (N.Q.) is meeting with very luke-
warm support from local growers. Before
parting with their cash the Bowen farmers
want to know where from 1500 to 5000 tons
of pulp can be marketed. Although there
has been a loud outcry about recently-
imported pulp, there is no real shortage of
the article in Australia, and growers in
southern Queensland and Victoria will meet
the demand if they receive reasonable prices.
Another point is that although Bowen grows
an excellent eating tomato it is not popular
with canners owing to the excess moisture
it carries.
* * * *
“Guy Fane”: Wyoming, the building in
Macquarie-street, Sydney, purchased the other
day by Frank Albert, was built in Bill, and
a few years later offered to the tenants,
mostly medical men, for £BO,OOO. The doc-
tors thought the price too high and declined.
The rents were then raised, alterations made,
and the building again offered to the scalpel
gentry—this time for £150,000. Again they
refused. Four years ago John O’Brien, a
Christian scientist, bought Wyoming; he
sold it quite recently to Emanuel Myerson for
£05,000. Myerson sold it to Albert for
£120,000.
* * * *
“Cog”: Queensland growers are cursing
the day their Agricultural Department im-
ported a number of Gros Michel banana-
plants- from Jamaica. In that way the
dreaded borer-beetle entered Queensland as
far back as 1920; its presence was noted by
the same Agricultural Department in certain
districts, “but it was not anticipated it
would give any serious trouble.” Growers
from Gympie to Currumbin are now up
against the borer. It is a hard-shelled
creature, less than half an inch long, which
flies from November to March inclusive and
deposits its eggs in the plant about ground-
level. These produce the grub, which does
the damage by tunnelling through the heart
of the plant.
* * * *
“Gregor” : Australia clings desperately to
the passport system, although it has been
discarded long since by almost every other
country which adopted it during the war
years. The official reason given for its
retention is that it enables control to be
exercised over the movements of all people
entering and leaving the Commonwealth, and
lessens the possibility of anybody getting
away with his or her income-tax unpaid. The
latter could be just as easily and much
more cheaply effected by a regulation pro-
hibiting shipping companies from booking as
a passenger anybody who did not have a
clearance from the Taxation Department.
But once a Government department has been
established it takes a lot of shifting.
* * * -X
“A.8.C.”: “Muggins, Jun.” (B. 27/l/’27),
is years behind the time in one respect. Since
the advent of the Bank Clerks’ Union the
bank clerk has little to complain about
regarding either his salary or his working
conditions. He is paid better than the aver-
age outside pen-pusher and his rights as
regards holidays, sick leave and pensions are
on a sound basis. Old customs and ideas,
however, are still making a stand against
some further demands of the union.
* * * *
“W.E.F.” : A grimy little canvasser poked
his head around the door of my friend’s office
with “Want any neckties?” He followed the
question with a bundle of colored strips, and
Jones produced a couple of bob and took the
nearest one. The canvasser having departed,
Jones opened the lid of a large chest and
threw his purchase in. “Want to see my
novelty dump?” he asked, and I walked over.
There were fountain-pens, pocket-knives,
kewpies, collar-studs, cakes of soap, tooth-
brushes, writing-pads, sticking-plaster, fly-
killer, crockery-mending solutions, jumping-
frog toys, plaster statues, feather-dusters,
pictures, jazz-caps, garters and a host of other
articles. “Poor devils!” he said; “I can’t
turn ’em down —most of ’em look so pitiful.
So I buy and chuck the rubbish into that
box, and when it’s full it goes to a city church
that’s doing good work among the poor.”
* * * *
“Borom”: In a recent case in the Adelaide
Bankruptcy Court, it was elicited that
the lay-by customers of the insolvent,
who carried on business in a comparatively
small way, numbered 1101. Lay-by is a fine
system for the retailer in that it gives him
a considerable sum free of interest where-
with to pursue his commercial operations.
As for the purchaser, the advantages are
not so manifest. Scores of suburban lay-
by businesses are holding some thousands of
their customers’ money, and the majority of
their customers belong to the wage-earning
classes. The system might profitably receive
some attention from the Legislature.
* * * *
“M.L.F.”: A newspaper sent me from
England recently tells of an aeroplane scat-
tering a chemical powder from the air over a
40-acre patch of potatoes as a protection
from disease. One of the largest growers
of potatoes in Britain chartered a private
aeroplane with which to experiment on a
field of Majestic potatoes. The powder used
was in two containers, one on either side
of the fuselage, and the machine worked first
down and then across the field. The aero-
plane flew so low that at times it seemed
to almost touch the tops of the vegetables. In
the ordinary way this.operation would have
taken two days to complete, whereas by
aeroplane it took 25 minutes. If the experi-
ment proves successful —as is believed will
be the case—then the spraying of crops by
’plane will be heard of in the future.


%
\ t
v
IN JELLY
‘.JTO
4 •
(cam)
o
1
m
\
PYE
In lib and \lb
hygienic cans .
Cooked en casserole
En casserole cooking is the most wholesome
and tasty way of preparing food; for no
iota of the natural meat juices and food
values is lost. Choicest quality raw mater-
ials, mixed and spiced according to a
recipe in our sole possession, packed in
clear Jelly in hygienic cans, and cooked
perfectly and scientifically en casserole —thus
we account for the delicate aroma, whole-
someness, and delicious flavour of REX-PYE,
The delicious flavour of
REX-PYE a7id its
delicate aroma , distinguish
it from all other meats .
REX-PYE is the finest meat in the World
Always say REX- PYE
FOGGITT JONES LIMITED
Curers of the Choice REX Hams and Bacon


Cuticura Treatment
Keeps The Hair Healthy
Before shampooing anoint the
scalp with Cuticura Ointment, let-
ting it remain on over night when
possible. Then shampoo with a
suds of Cuticura Soap and warm
water. Rinse thoroughly. A clean,
I healthy scalp means good hair.
i
; Smp l*.,Talcum Is. 3d., Ointment 1 s. and
; 2s. For sample Soap and Ointment ad-
dress: "R.Towns&Co., Sydney, N.S.W.”
J9MF** Cuticura Shaving Stick Is. 6d.
HEY are in each of the four
wheels—one set for each wheel where
they are needed and do the most good,
and they are so applied that a Bissell
sweeps better and lasts longer as well
as runs easier.
Rubber tired wheels against a wooden
brush pulley, exclusive with Bissells,
ensures perfect power transmission and
prevents glazing or slippage. Japan-
ned, instead of tinned, dust pans elim-
inate rust.
A selected brush of pure bristles with
just the right resiliency to do the
proper work gently combs the nap of
carpet and rug, and like a myriad of
tiny fingers gathers up dirt, lint, litter,
threads, saves you time, work, money
and does away forever with the old
weary arm and backache, the dust
clouds and the drudgery of old-fash-
ioned broom sweeping.
Little Bissells for little girls at trifling cost
make lovely gifts and happy children. Sold by
leading merchants everywhere. Write for
booklet.
BISSELL
CARPET SWEEPER CO.. GRAND RAPIDS. MICH.. U. S. A.
\Qnlu Bissell's
f Have“Cyco”
Ballbearings
The
“WILD
WEST”
Big Leaf
HAT
30/.
X
A wide leaf Bush
Hat, built to stand
rough wear. Big
crown, leaf 3m. wide.
Steel Grey or Fawn
shades. Kindly state
size when ordering.
Mail to Desk “SB”
PIKE
BROTHERS LTD.
In Queen St., Brisbane
If any illustration in The Bulletin takes
your fancy, write to the Manager, who will
Quote you price for the original.
QN
BANK
THE QUEENSLAND NATIONAL BANK, LIMITED.
Incorporated under the Companies Act 1863. Established 1872.
Directors —A. C. Luya, Esq., Chairman; James Love, Esq.; W. H. Hart, Esq,;
M. J. Ryan, Esq.; D. W. Macdonald, Esq.
General Manager—M. G. HAYMEN.
HEAD OFFICE BRISBANE
With offices at London. Canberra (Federal Territory), Melbourne, Sydney, and
95 branches in Queensland and Northern Rivers, N. S. Wales, also representatk:
through the leading Banking Institutions covering Australasia and the World, this
Bank”offers the fullest facilities for the transaction of all general banking busing
đ
Sf S ' •
*Jm WfW’Jtt fill
' POLISHES —PRESERVES—PREVENTS CRACKS
BOSTOCK’S Shoe Creams are made in all
principal shades, and especially noted for the
New Shade of Bois-de-Rose, Putty, Sunburn
and Oak.
Price 6d. per tube* Obtainable Everywhere .
®si4
Visitors to Brisbane! Book up at the
HOTEL CECIL
(FIRST CLASS)
Reasonable Tariff—Good Position.
THE MARK OF .
A GOOD RAZOp^THEj
1 PLUM
A«k any man you know who use* a PLUM—
ask him if he doesn't think it the best
Razor he has ever used. Hear him
answer, "Why, rather!"
d
ď
đ
SUPPLIED SET READY FOR USE
GUARANTEED A&D KEPT IN
ORDER FOR TWO YEARS FREE
12 6
Post Free.
CRAIG &ATTKEN,
654 George Street, Sydney.
See how alive ENO is!
ADD a “■dash” of ENO to a glass of water,
see how it springs immediately to bubbling
life. ENO’s “Fruit Salt” is so different from other
preparations —it does not require to be stirred into
activity, and there is no gritty residue nothing
nauseating —no waste.
In fact, ENO provides the most pleasant way
of eliminating waste products from the system,
removing the causes of constipation, indigestion,
Ever disorders, depression and sleeplessness.
To preserve good health, drink a glass of water
every morning sparkling with a “dash” of ENO.
Prepared only by
J. C. ENO, Limited.
London. England.
Sales Agents: The British
Harold F. Ritchie & Co..
Ltd., Sydney, N.S.'^-
£NOjr
r
IN
TWO SIZES
AT CHEMiSTS
AND STORES.
THE WORDS "FRUIT SALT" AND ENO ARE REGISTERED TRADE MARES'
“Vida”: A man who took his sister and
his betrothed out for a sail the other after-
noon on a M.L. bay had a harrowing experi-
ence. A sudden squall upset the craft when
about a mile from land, and in the choppy
sea it soon became evident that the girls
could not hang on indefinitely. He then
had to make up his mind which to save, as
it was obviously impossible to swim ashore
with both of them. He says he had just
made up his mind to start for land when
a launch hove in sight and effected a rescue,
but so far nobody has learned what the
decision was.
The chances of J. Bull having a China
presented to him, more or less against his
will, after he has given the other up, are
bright. In the first 11 months of last year
315,677 Chinese immigrants entered Singa-
pore, as against 187,243 in 1925.
George Whitelock succeeds Murtagh
Murphy as Vic. Deputy-Commissioner of
Land Tax. Joining the service as a junior
40 years ago (he is 59 now) Whitelock
has had a stiff climb from the fifth to the
first class. What he doesn’t know about
Vic.’s modest land-tax of a ha’penny in the
£ isn’t worth knowing, as he has been chief
clerk for years.
William Simpson, the patriarch of Black
Mountain (N.S.W.), had 278 living descen-
dants when he died, at 95 years, the other
day—l 2 sons and daughters, 93 grand-
children, 170 great-grandchildren, and three
infants of the fifth generation. Travellers
through the New England district during
winter-time reckon that Guyra, when the
keen wind whistles over the Lake of Ducks,
is Australia’s bleakest spot; but that is
because they don’t know its neighbor, Black
Mountain. It is in that sort of climate that
many of this hardy tribe have been reared.
Dunedin (M.L.) moves with Scottish
caution in selecting professors for its Uni.
It sought Ernest Rutherford’s aid in choos-
ing its Beverly-Mackenzie lecturer, and as
a result lias appointed Charles Melbourne
Focken, an Aussie youngster from Mel-
bourne, who went to Oxford as Rhodes
Scholar, and got his Ph.D. last year.
Terrigal (N.S.W.) appears to be a fate-
ful place for Antonio Dondero, one of the
survivors of the collier Galava. Fifteen
years ago, when he was a fisherman running
his own launch, it foundered in much the
same locality. But Terrigal has a record of
mysterious sinkings. The Austral went down
there in 1924 and the Myola in 1919, not
much further on than where the Galava took
her dive. The story of disaster goes right
back to 50 years ago with the loss of the
Lord Ashley.
“Feng-Shui”: Japan, which has reduced
Christian mission effort in the home field
to very small dimensions, is planning a
counter-offensive on Christianity. Count
Otani, Lord Abbot of one of the biggest
Buddhist sects, is organising a Buddhist
missionary campaign, and America is to be
the first step in the crus- or lotus-ade. If
the movement succeeds —and all movements
succeed in U.S.A. —New York should eventu-
ally see a 40-storey temple, equipped with
searchlights, radio and an effigy of the Com-
passionate One bigger than the statue of
Liberty, selling Sakyamuni to the bustling
Yanks. The originator of the project is
closely related to the late Emperor of Japan,
and is a leader in Nippon’s social and public
life, so the movement is probably as. much
political as religious.
Theodore Fink, chairman of Melbourne
Herald co., who is packing his suitcase for
another trip to the Cold Land, was the mem-
ber of Vic. Assembly who, in 1903, scotched
the attempt of Irvine (now Vic. C.J.) to
impose a charge of a shilling or so a week
on senior State-school pupils who had passed
a certain standard. Fink spoke for four hours
or more between midnight and dawn, and
made the Ministry and the House so ashamed
of the proposal that it was not persevered
with. It was Fink’s last speech in the
House.
A tough old bird, probably the last of the
old-time Sydney rockchoppers, was “Nugget”
Ringstad, who has just laid down his pick
for ever. He is remembered for the part
he took in the agitation for a 36-hour week
for rockchoppers. The rumpus helped to
put the Wade Government out, and the
Labor party in for the first time. While
striking rockchoppers were being gaoled at
Darlinghurst (one of them a dying man),
a North Sydney baker was fined for selling
short-weight bread. He appealed, and his
fine was considerably reduced. Labor came
out with a pamphlet, “The Rich Baker and
the Dying Rockchopper,” which did the trick
for Jimmy McGowen. “Nugget” liked his
beer. He and Martin Willis (long gone
before) used to line up at the bar of the
Golden Grove at Leichhardt and call on the
barman to fill up every pewter in the pub.
When a thin lead line of pewters occupied
the bar frontage, Ringstad would start at
one end and Willis at the other. The idea
was that the one who drank most drank free,
but it was often a tie.
Gone aloft, at 76, Commander John
Brown Peebles, about the best-known
shellback in Australian waters. A Scot out
of Fifeshire, he sailed the seaways so effi-
ciently as a lad that at 22 he secured his
first command. Tiring of tramping out of
Liverpool to Asiatic ports in the interests
of the Orient Co., he came south
and was appointed first of the pilots
of Torres in 1885. But the war found him
ready to thresh blue water again. He went
back to his piloting, but the sea had not
remitted its toll, and he retired a very sick
man a year ago.
It was on February 2, 1887, that William
Graham first became an alderman of Darling-
ton (Sydney), and he has been one ever
since, with a spicing of four periods as
mayor. The Darlington aldermen, who claim
the performance as a record (but it isn’t
really), have celebrated it by giving the old
boy an illuminated address.
Turkish baths were introduced into Aus-
tralia by Dr. Le Gay Brereton, father of
Professor Le Gay Brereton, who practised
homoeopathy in conjunction with Dr. Eben-
ezer Atherton over half a century ago in
Sydney. The first bath was in Spring-street.
Afterwards it was shifted to Bligh-streel.
Incidentally. Sydney possessed up-to-date
Turkish baths before either London or Paris
had them.


Shipping.
BRISBANE, via BYRON BAY
Through Tickets to Brisbane issued.
S.S. ORARA —Every Saturday evening; passengers
Brisbane Monday afternoon.
S.S. WOLLONGBAR— Every Tuesday evening;
Passengers due Brisbane Thursday afternoon.
Both vessels fitted with Wireless Receiving Sets.
BRISBANE:
fares.—
Steamer and Motor throughout, Single, £4
Steamer and Motor throughout, Return, £7/5/-
-T earner and First-class Rail, Single, £3/15/-
Steamer and Second-class Rail, Single, £3/8/-
NORTH COAST S. N. CO., LTD.,
Passengers’ Booking Office:
tourist bureau, challis house,
MARTIN PLACE, SYDNEY.
prisbane Booking Agents: Burns, Philp and Co., Ltd.
En Route to America Tarry Awhile in
HAWAII
Or take a six to eight weeks’ Round Trip for
about £lOO to £l5O. No extra passage money
to stop off in Hawaii. Quaint tea-rooms and
gardens; all modern conveniences, good hotels
with meals, 12/- to £3 per day; apartments,
furnished cottages. Entire cost Sydney to
Honolulu and return (2 or 3 weeks in Hawaii),
and a day at Suva or Pago Pago, about £lOO.
Unique vacation ; complete change in land of
music, sunshine, tropical coloring, fruits and
flowers. Balmy climate, golfing, tramping, out-
rigger canoeing, surf-board riding, outdoor
sports. Inter-island cruises. Ask nearest travel
agency or write Hawaii Tourist Bureau, Dept.
26, Box 241 D G.P.0., Sydney, N.S.W., for
beautifully colored booklet, enclosing this
advertisement.
See Lovely Hawaii This Year.
Banking, Public Companies, etc.
The Australian Bank of Commerce Limited
Authorised Capital .. .. .. £5,000,000
Capital Paid Up and Reserves .. .. £2,685,303
Aggregate Assets at 30th June, 1926 ..£16,789,590
Directors: Sir Mark Sheldon, K.8.E., Chairman;
Frank N. Yauwood; Duncan Carson; H. R.
Lysaght, 0.8. E.; George J. Sly, LL.D.; Lieut.-
Col. T. L. F. Rutledge.
General Manager: C. M. C. Shannon.
Chief Inspector for N.S.W.: W. G. Hull,
head OFFICE, SYDNEY (Corner George and King
Streets).
Branches and Receiving Offices at 151 places in
New South Wales.
BRISBANE (264 Queen Street).
Chief Inspector for Queensland: L. Avetard.
Manager: G. H. Howell.
Branches and Receiving Offices at 27 places in
Queensland.
MELBOURNE (325 Collins Street).
Manager: M. B. Finney.
ADELAIDE (35 Rundle Street).
Manager: R. T. Moodie.
PERTH, W.A. (73 St. George’s Terrace).
Manager: A. C. Dibdin.
LONDON (37 Threadneedle Street, E.C.2).
Manager: A. F. Jenkins.
London Directors ;
A. Dodds Fairbairn, Alfred Shepherd.
Agents throughout Australia. Tasmania and New
Maud, and at all the Chief Cities of the World.
Every description of Banking Business Transacted.
took of Mew Zealand.
SYDNEY BRANCH:
Comer GEORGE and WYNYARD
STREETS.
Guaranteed Stock.. .. .. £52a,988
Preference Shares .. .. .. 1,876,000
Ordinary Shares .. .. .. 3.760,000
Reserve Fund and Undivided Profits 3,390,378
CHANTS DRAFTS
Great Britain and Ireland, and other places.
RECEIVES DEPOSITS *5
transacts all other usual Banking business.
Australian Mutual E, “'“ ed
nmui-v ProvideatSociety
The Largest and Most Successful
Mutual Life Office in the British Empire,
distributes a Cash Bonus Every Year.
Amount Distributed for single year 1925 £2,428,000
Reversionary Additions to
Policies of over .. .. .. £4,150,000
Funds .. .. .. £60,000,000
Annual Income nearly .. .. .. £9,000,000
The Society transacts Every Class of Ordinary
and Industrial Assurance Business.
H. W. APPERLY, F.S.S.; General Manager.
HOTEL
METROPOLE,
. . . SYDNEY.
Union Club and Two Minutes
Sm Entrance to Domain an 7 Circular
Quay.
Tariff from is/e per day, or apart-
ments may be secured separately by the
' r u y from 6/6 and upwards. Cards of Tariff
all particulars posted on application
The Manager.
Keep hopping and hoping if you wish
to succeed
d
THINK OF
SCHUTE
BELL&Cuo.
if you have
Wool & Skins
to Sell.
Personal Attention.
Offices: 44 Bridge Street. Sydney.
Shipping, etc.
CANADA, UNITED STATES,
UNITED KINGDOM
FORTNIGHTLY SAILINGS FROM SYDNEY.
CANADIAN-AUSTRALASIAN ROYAL MAIL LINE
via Auckland, Suva (Fiji), Honolulu, Victoria and Vancouver.
UNION ROYAL MAIL LINE
via Wellington, Rarotonga, Tahiti and San Francisco.
MAKURA 13,300 tons disp. FEB. 24, for San Francisco.
AORANGI .. . 22,000 „ „ MARCH 10, for Vancouver.
TAHITI 13,300 ~ „ MARCH 24, for San Francisco
NIAGARA 18,600 „ „ APRIL 7, for Vancouver.
Past and splen-
didly equipped
steamers using
oil fuel.
Spacious Decks,
Unrivalled
Cuisine.
,
■HH
The Scenic
Routes to the
United King-
dom, via South
Sea Islands,
Canada, United
States.
TICKETS TO THE UNITED KINGDOM INTERCHANGEABLE EOR RETURN
BY OTHER LINES.
SPECIAL HONOLULU EXCURSIONS COMMENCE JUNE 2.
UNION STEAM SHIP CO. j
Union House, 247 George Street, Sydney.
William Street, Melbourne.
MACDONALD, HAMILTON & CO., Brisbane, Adelaide and Perth.
SOUTH SEA TOURS
Attractive Island Trips, occupying about Jj\ Weeks.
SIX-WEEKLY SAILINGS FROM SYDNEY TO
Me w Britain:
S.S. “MONTORO” (5000 tons).
Sails March 29 and May 10.
fvUrwk- s s “MATARAM” (3500 tons),
Ovlylllwll IoIGIAUu. Sails March 16 and April 27.
A Delightful Holiday in Island Wonderlands.
For Particulars apply—
BURNS, PHILP & CO., LTD.,
Sydney, Melbourne, Adelaide and Brisbane.
r**.
JtSB
BURNS, PHILP & CO., LTD,,
Passenger Booking Agents for All Steamship Lines
T ° ENGLAND CANADA JAPAN
EUROPE AFRICA CHINA
AMERICA INDIA JAVA, etc.
At regular passage rates. No extra charge.
A tti’fipfi vp friii p to
NOUMEA, JAVA, -HONOLULU, COLOMBO, etc.
VISIT JAVA (The wonderland of the East).
Regular monthly sailings of the s.s. “Marella” and
ni.s. “Malabar” to Java and Singapore via Queensland
ports, Thursday Island, Darwin, etc. Smooth water trip,
Deck Cabins, interesting ports of call.
APPLY
BURNS, PHILP & COMPANY, LIMITED,
WORLD TOUR and TRAVEL DEPARTMENT,
7 BRIDGE STREET, SYDNEY.
South Africa and England
ABERDEEN LINE
BLUE FUNNEL LINE
WHITE STAR LINE
Joint
Service
A combined service offering unequalled
facilities at moderate rates.
JRunic 12,500 tons Feb. 28.
fEuripides . . 12,000 „ March 12
*Nestor 14,500 „ March 25
$ Ceramic .... 18,500 ~ March 29
fThemistocles. 11,500 ~ April 25
*Ulysses .... 14,500 ~ May 9
i; Sue vie 12,500 ~ May 21
* First class only, thirst and Third class.
s“Cabin” class only.
For full particulars apply to:
Dalgety 8 Co., Ltd.
Gilchrist, Watt 8 Sanderson, Ltd.
Joint
Agents
Interstate Telegraphic address:
“NALDHAM.”
Cable address:
“NALDHAM.”
Macdonald, Hamilton 8 Co.
247 George Street, Sydney.
Shipping Agents, Merchants, Colliery
Proprietors, Tug and Tighter Owners.
MANAGING AGENTS FOB
Australasian United Steam Navigation Co., Ltd.
Eitzroy Estates, Ltd.
BlacUlieatb Collieries, Ltd., and Caledonian
Collieries, Ltd.
Eastern & Australian Steamship Co., Ltd.
AGENTS FOR
Britisli-India S. N. Co., Ltd. P. & 0. S. N. Co.
Queensland line of Steamers. Scottish Shire Line
(Turnbull, Martin & Co.). New Zealand Shipping Co.,
Ltd. Canadian-Australasian ltoyal Mail Line, San
Francisco Service (Union S.S. Co.), Union S.S. Co.
of New Zealand, Ltd. Hain Line. Huddart Parker,
Ltd. London Assurance Corporation (Marine). Mel-
bourne Agents for Messageries Maritimes Co. Queens-
land Agents for Sea Insurance Co., Ltd.
BRANCHES at Perth, Fremantle, Adelaide Port
Adelaide, Melbourne, Suva (Fiji), Brisbane Mary-
borough, Bundaberg and Bowen. ’ J
BANK OF NEW SOUTH WALES.
Established 1817.
Paid-up Capital
Reserve Fund
Reserve Pliability
Directors
£6,000,000
4,750,000
6.000,000
£16,750,000
Thomas Buekland, Esq., President.
The Hon Reginald J. Black, M.L.C.
Charles Binnie, Esq.
James Burns, Esq.
Robert L. Faithfull, Esq.,
Robert W. Gillespie, Esq.
Franc B. S. Falkiner, Esq.
M.D.
Auditors: W. H. Palmer, Esq.; S. E. Laidley, Esq. General Manager: OSCAR LINES.
Head Office — George Street, Sydney. London Office —39 Tlireadneedle Street, E.C. 2
431 Branches and Agencies in the Australian States, New Zealand, Fiji, Papua, Mandated
Territory of New Guinea and London. Agents and Correspondents throughout the world.
Cable remittances made to, and drafts drawn on Foreign places DIRECT. Foreign Bills
negotiated and collected, Letters of Credit Issued, negotiable throughout the world.
Shipping, etc,
Inter-State Steamship
Sailings.
(Passenger Sailings—Circumstances permitting.)
FOR MELBOURNE, ADELAIDE and FREMANTLE
(Transhipping at Melbourne for Geelong and other
Victorian ports; at Adelaide for S.A. Gulf ports;
and at Fremantle for Perth, Bunbury, Geraldton
and North-West Ports).
FOR QUEENSLAND PORTS
(Transhipping at Brisbane for Maryborough, Bunda-
berg and Gladstone, and at Townsville for outports).
Howard, Smith,
Ltd., Kembla Big.
58 Margaret St.
Howard, Smith,
Ltd., Kembla Big.
58 Margaret St.
A.U.S.N. Co., Ltd.
7 Bridge Street.
and Cairns.
Huddart Parker Lyn
Magnificent
Fast Passenger
Steamships
STEAMERS TO NEW ZEALAND— -Regular sailings
from Sydney to New Zealand ports and vice versa.
Particulars to be obtained on application.
STEAMERS TO TASMANIA —From Sydney to Hobart
and vice versa as per daily papers. Between Mel-
bourne and Launceston as per daily papers,
l-'or full particulars apply HUDDART PARKER LIMITED,
Collins Street, Melbourne; Bridge Street, Sydney.
P. & O. via THE CAPE
SERVICE.
ONE CLASS ONLY.
To LONDON, via Durban & Capetown.
BALRANALD .
BARRABOOL .
BALLARAT ..
BARADINE ..
BENDIGO ..
Tons.
13,100
13,100
13,100
13,100
13,100
BELTANA
BENALLA
BORDA
BERRIMA
Tons.
. 11,100
. 11,100
. 11,ICO
. 11,ICO
Fares, from £37 to £45 to England, and
from £2l to £27 to South Africa.
AGENTS—GILCHRIST. WATT, SANDERSON.
Tel. 86701-2-3. 6 O’Connell Street, Sydney.
Wills, Gilchrist & Sanderson, Ltd., Brisbane.
John Sanderson & Co., Melbourne.
Geo. Wills & Co., Ltd., Adelaide.
If any illustration in The Bulletin takes
your fancy, write to the Manager, who will
quote you price for the original.
RUPTURE.
A FREE TRIAL.
If you are troubled with the complaint, write us and
we will send you our catalogue, fully describing our
PATENT AIR CUSHION APPLIANCE.
This appliance does away with all cumbersome
springs, giving a feeling of ease and comfort from the
first day's use. It is the most scientific appliance yet
invented for this complaint. It will hold a rupture
firmly and comfortably under all conditions.
To prove what we state
WE OFFER TO SEND IT TO YOU
ON A FREE TRIAL.
If it is not satisfactory we do not expect you to keep
it, and the trial costs you nothing, it is suitable for
men, women and children, and the price is within
the reach of all. .
ILLUSTRATED CATALOGUE
posted free anywhere.
THE WINSLOW CO.
104 Queen Street, Melbourne, Vie.
WANT TO MAKE
MONEY ?
“The ‘Wad Cat’
Monthly,”
published on the first Saturday ot
every month, will help you in your
dealings with shares.
Hundreds of thousands of pounds
are lost annually in Wild Cat com-
panies. “The ‘Wild Cat’ Monthly"’
will help you to identify them.
As valuable for the Smallest
Investor as for the Largest. In fact,
the small investor needs it most.
Published by “The Bulletin/’ 2/-
per single copy; 22/6 per annum.


A Twelve Years’ Record
of Endurance
November 14, 1926, was the twelfth anniversary of
the manufacture of Dodge Brothers Motor Cars.
An eventful twelve years! During that time
Dodge Brothers manufactured 1,800,000 motor cars
so enduringly and honestly built that over 90 per
cent, are still in use.
Through these twelve years Dodge Brothers Motor
Cars have been more and more widely used as
time ha*s passed because the standards of sturdiness
and stability, which always marked them, have
continually been advanced.
Standard Touring - - £325
Standard Roadster £320
Sedan £420
Coupe £405
Canada Cycle & Motor Co. (Victoria) Pty., Ltd., Melbourne,
Austral Motors, Limited, Brisbane—Townsville.
The Standardised Motors, Ltd., Sydney.
Waymouth Motor Co., Ltd., Adelaide.
iWinterbottom Motor Co., Ltd., Perth.
rzz- s m
□□dee- Brothers
MOTOR CARS
B. 24/S/ ! Sf.


11
iAi
■Rexona
Soap
fifeal/h
a/u) (J^c&uty
“I want to be liappy and
I want to make you happy,
too, so I recommend you to
use Rexona Soap for the Skin
and Hair, same as I do.”
—Miss ELSIE PRINCE.
Be Pretty!
Be
Dainty!
Be
Attractive!
Be a
Rexona
Girl !
Miss
ELSIE
FRINGE ,
a beautiful
Rexona
Girl.
Packed in the famous Red Boxes and
mailed to you the day they are made.
Prices; 3/-, 5/6, 6/-, Post free to any address
10/-, 12/6, 20/- & 30/“ in Australia.
Send for Catalogue, illustrated
with Reproductions of our
Confectionery, in color.
iUlk\
r
Igggg^p
.
SfeflHl
* * fs.
Si 1
/
■
••
a
i&\
a
m
162-166 PITT STREET
BRANCHES:
CR. GEORGE KING STREETS;
CAS 7 HERE AGH S TREE T,
NEXT THEATRE ROYAL,
S YDNE Y.
‘ IVhat a lovely
Gzft!"
The Ballad of Queen Dergil's Pearls.
(A tale of the sack of Rome, 390 R.C.)
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
RED Brennan from the wars came home
Across the summer sea,
A necklet of the pearls of Rome
He brought to gladden me.
>Twas merry weather with the ships
XJpon the lough afloat.
He set his kiss upon my lips,
The pearls about my throat.
"Och, far we went and well we went,
The spoil of cities five
The bold men of the south land lent
To buy their souls alive.
"There’s store of gold, there’s weight of brass,
The ships are loaded deep.
And under new-sprung south-land grass
Lie fifty kings asleep.
“Oar swords have broken down the world.
Dear heart, ’tis good to see
My own grey turf smoke softly curled
Above the old fir-tree.
“’Tis fine to feel the moving air
Come down from Cona’s glen,
'Tis sweet to touch your woman hair
After long wars with men.”
’Twas merry weather in the land,
The bearded thistle flew.
King Brennan walked the brown lough sand
In dress of south-land blue.
I wore the pearls about my throat,
And sure they lay so light
With every breath they seemed to float
Like moon-kissed clouds at night.
And bright they were for all to see
Between my skin and hair,
As if spring rain had brought to me
Its largest drops to wear.
The holy man from Innisdare
Came down the summer way—
“Och, queen, and what is that you wear
About your neck so gay?
“'Tis sure the chain of Ancient Dreams
Lir's silent daughter made,
Mixing the moonlight with the streams
Her sea-wet hair to braid.
“Och, put the shining thing away.
The dreams are wrought so fine
They set a woman’s wits astray
Like shells of fairy wine.”
“Now why should I put off the gift
War-won across the sea?
Sweet dreams of sleep are good to lift
The woman soul of me.
“ ’Tis merry weather in the sky
Wakes merry dreams at night,
Close-clasped the happy thing shall lie
About my neck so white.”
The holy man from Innisdare
Passed up the summer way,
The sun above the land was fair,
The little winds made play.
There came a sleep upon my eyes,
A heavy sleep and strong,
Och, heart, but die grey man was wise:
I dreamt too strange and long.
I dreamt a life and half a death
Before the sun was low,
I spent a year with every breath,
A year of days made slow.
King Brennan came to where I lay;
He stirred me with his cry.
"What witch is this with hair of grey
Where Dergil queen should lie?”
I rose with trembling from that sleep,
Death-old in heart and limb.
The eyes of me too weak to weep
One woman tear to him.
"Och. give me back the life was mine,
Och, take your pearls from me.
They brought me dreams too long and fine
For woman sleep to see.
"For I have wandered foot and heart,
Five worlds mv eyes have seen,
In shames and shows I took my part
As beggar and as queen.
"I climbed all mountains to the head.
I walked all roads that are,
I saw the graves of all the dead
And counted every star.”
He snatched the pearls with sudden hand
From off my neck so thin.
"Dear heart,” he said, “the good south land
Has bitter wealth to win.”
The holy man of Innisdare
Came down the darkened way.
"Now word a spell or make a prayer
This south-land curse to stay.”
The holy man spake slow and wise.
"The middle sea is deep ;
Drown there the pearls before morn-rise
And let the woman sleep.”
They rowed a ship across the sea
To find the middle place,
Ihey tossed the necklet wide and free
upon the water’s face.
Cona’s house I lay as dead,
The sun came up to shine,
A yellow light was round my head,
A faint, sweet thought was mine.
,^ ew m y hair before my eyes,
Twas black as trees at night—
Dch, happy morning, let me rise
A bride for Brennan’s sight!
Back came the king from off the sea,
f IDs face was full of fears—
D'mj heart, he stooped and kissed from me
the pearls of woman tears.
N.S.W.
DACID MCKEE WRIGHT.
The Dead Hand.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
W r HEN the Zealandia Loan and
Investment Co. took over Duncan
Ferguson’s run in South West-
rand and sent a director’s nephew down to
manage the place, J. J. Donaghy, the grizzled
old general manager, congratulated himself
on having killed two birds with one stone.
Ilis dislike of Hughie Waller had come to be
almost an obsession. He had suffered the
insufferable young bounder —as Donaghy
deemed him —for three months, during which
period Hughie had played the very devil
with order and discipline amongst the head-
quarters staff. Had it not been that the
blessed prospect always loomed ahead of
eventually shunting Hughie—a Lincoln
Agricultural College product—on to the land
in some spot very, very remote from Dunedin
and Donaghy, the latter would have told the
avuncular Waller to take his blasted
nephew away somewhere and drown him.
The main trouble with Hughie was that he
was an incorrigible practical joker, and un-
tactfully indiscriminate in his choice of vic-
tims. To saddle him on such a peppery old
martinet as Donaghy was asking for trouble.
Donaghy had had his share of it, and he was
now grimly determined that the second help-
ing should go on Hughie’s plate.
If it had been anyone else but Waller
who was going out to Okarino Donaghy
would have let him go with no more than
the usual potpourri of instructions and
advice. Certainly he wouldn’t have breathed
a word about the circumstances in which
Duncan Ferguson’s run had become the
company’s property. The affair was seven
years old—forgotten by all but the police
and the people who keep crime scrap-books—
and as South Westland is about the most
sparsely populated region in Maoriland and
peopled only by nomads at that, it was
unlikely that anyone Hughie would meet
down there would be able to tell him the
story. Donaghy told it of malice afore-
thought, and to wipe out an old score.
It was a melodramic sort of story and it
lost nothing in the telling on this occasion.
Probably Donaghy embroidered it a, bit,
especially the tragic climax. In his career
as a stock auctioneer and land-agent the
old chap had not neglected to cultivate his
imagination, and in the realms of the higher
finance which he now inhabited they were
not exactly lying rusty. The actual facts
of the case, however, were sufficiently
striking.
The most interesting part of the evidence
at the inquest on the bodies of Duncan
n erguson and his shepherd, James Mcll-
wraith, was gleaned from a diary kept by
Ferguson—the man had been a confirmed
and copious diarist since boyhood. His
father dying when he was seventeen, he
succeeded to the lairdship of Ivinnich, in
the north of Scotland, and by his own
account was a man of some standing among
the Highlanders, though his holdings were
mostly barren mountain slopes and steep-
sided ravines. He married, at the age of
thirty, a very beautiful English girl, several
years younger than himself and with no pre-
tensions to either birth or education. He
met her in London, where she lived, taking
her back, after a courtship of only a few
days, to his lonely old stone house by Loch
Kathy 11. It seemed that the girl misunder-
stood Ferguson’s account of his position in
life. She thought he was a lord and lived
in a castle, and was bitterly disappointed
when she faced the realities of life in a
desolate country—the more so as Ferguson’s
marriage to a southerner, and one of no
birth at that, was resented by his neighbors,
so that young Mrs. Ferguson had but little
company outside her husband and a few
farmhands. And when her disappointment
was reflected in her manner, Ferguson took
mighty umbrage, and his wife soon lost even
the consolation of her husband’s presence
and affection. He kept out of the house
as much as he could, sulking blackly and
giving her neither word nor glance.
It was not very surprising that a lover
should have made his appearance on the
scene- —a young farmer named Colin Camp-
bell, an unimportant twig from a famous
family tree. He managed the Highland
estate of a titled relative and lived near
enough to Loch Rathyll to be reckoned as a
neighbor. At first, Ferguson welcomed his
visits as an indication that the gentry of
the district were beginning to overlook his
mesalliance, but his naturally suspicious
and gloomy nature soon struck upon the
right interpretation. He determined to lay
in wait, to confront the guilty pair and to
slay both. The better to carry _ out his
vengeance he concealed his suspicions and
gave the lovers endless opportunities of
meeting. But he either under-rated their
intelligence or —as he seems to have thought
possible —he talked in his sleep and dis-
closed his plans to his wife. Campbell and
Mrs. Ferguson fled the country and Ferguson
never found them, though with that dour
singleness of purpose so often found in the
people of the glens he sought them over
half the globe.
At last, an old man and grey, though
still of iron strength, he gave up the hopeless
search. In the course of his travels he had
acquired some mining property and he sold
this on arrival in Maoriland and bought
Okarino, which had been described to him
as the most remote and inaccessible estate
in the most isolated of countries. He took
up sheep-farming, which was all the place
was good for, but his heart was not in it.
He had his black fits, when he took a couple
of cases of whisky into his two-roomed hut
and did not come out again till the liquor
was finished —it might be ten days or a fort-
night later. He would sometimes go sober
for months, but he was not good company
for man or beast at any time. He led a
hermit life. His run was a huge one, being
mostly third-class hill country, but he em-
ployed only one shepherd—one at a time,
that is, for there was a succession of occu-
pants of the post. Ferguson insisted on
his employee living four miles away, at the
end of the estate most distant from what was
called by courtesv “the homestead” —a shack
which butted up against the tumble-down
shearing-shed. Ferguson did not encourage
his shepherds to cultivate the art of conver-
(Continued on next page.)


Daily Mishaps
Make ZAM-BUK a Daily Need
/
9
&
A CCIDENTS in the home occur when least expected—the slip with
the knife or tin-opener—the hot oven door against your bare arm
—the kettle that boils over —the bruises and bumps of play, and the
children’s cuts and hurts.
1 11 »•'
A
X
■*s
u
1
\
✓/
First wash away any dirt or grit from
the wound; cover it with a piece of
iint or any bit of dean rag on which
Zam-Buk has been spread. Rub gently
w ith Zam-Buk for bruises and sprains.
Then cover up (especially in burns and
scalds) and let nature and Zam-Buk
do the rest.
A HANDY BOX COSTS
ONLY 1/6
(Family Size 3/6)
Injury to the skin means a
breaking of the protective layer
and the admission of hordes of
harmful germs that set up a
kind of local poisoning. There-
fore, be ready to apply at once
to any injury a piece of lint
or clean rag smeared with
Zam-Buk, and keep the place
covered up.
This antiseptic balm kills
disease germs, draws out all
poisonous matter, soothes pain
and quickly ends what is a peril to even
healthy people.
If you had the eye of a microscope
and could see Zam-Buk knitting the edges
of a wound together you would witness
one of Nature’s miracles—the creation
cell by cell of new living tissue. You can
always feel safe in accident or skin trouble
with a box of Zam-Buk close at hand.
Unlike fatty ointments, it “keeps”
perfectly, and its soothing, healing and
curative powers never vary. Always
keep handy a box of this splendid anti-
septic healer. Whenever you cut, scrape,
bruise, burn or sprain yourself you can
soon heal it with Zam-Buk.
Sold by all chemists and storekeepers.
-ouk
am
ENSURES SAFE, CLEAN HEALING
sation. The less they said to him and the
less occasion he had to say anything to
them, the better he liked it. And after they
got to know him the sentiment was mutual.
Ferguson went on like this for about three
years. He was not making even a bare liv-
ing out of Okarino, and he mortgaged the
property in his first six months. When he
died the place was plastered with mort-
gages, some of which were arranged in a
manner so devious, not to say fraudulent,
that there was a pretty tangle for the lawyers
to unravel at the finish, and they spent seven
years on it before the Privy Council gave
a final decision. The manner of Ferguson’s
end was this. He engaged as shepherd a lad
named Jimmy Mcllwraith, a Westcoaster
by birth and a decent young fellow. He was
red-headed and blue-eyed, and, unfortunately
for himself and for Ferguson, he reminded
the latter very strongly of his old enemy,
Colin Campbell. After seeing Mcllwraith
installed in his lonely hut, Ferguson went
back to his own shack with his old hatred
strong upon him. He commenced to gulp
down raw whisky as soon as he got home
and by midnight was not a man, but an
alcoholic maniac. The terrible delusion had
fastened on his mind that Mcllwraith was
Campbell—found at last —and that his lost
wife was there in the shepherd’s hut with
her lover.
A week later the postman found
Mcllwraith lying in his bunk with his head
smashed in, and when they made a search
for Ferguson his. body was found lying
upder his horse at the foot of a cliff. A
pickaxe was still firmly gripped in his hand.
“I hope ye’re not nairvous, Mister Waller,”
said old Donaghy at the close of his story,
“but I warm ye it’s a verra lonesome decs-
triet, an’ they tell awesome tales aboot
ghosties an’ the like, in Ferrguson’s auld
hoose an’ the shepherd’s whare.”
“Won’t worry me in the slightest,” quoth
young Mr. Waller jauntily. “/ don’t be-
lieve in ghosts.”
“Oh! Don’t ye now?” snorted Donaghy
irritably. He began to think his dream of
vengeance on Hughie was a wash-out. “Well,
well,” he muttered to himself as the door
closed behind Hughie. “Wliaur there’s nae
sense we can’t expect feelin’.”
Old Donaghy would have been still more
perturbed if he had known that so far from
making things uncomfortable for Hughie he
had played into that cheerful young idiot’s
hands. Hughie had taken a keen interest in
the tale, for he saw in it a chance to scare
someone who was simply full of superstitions
—Johnnie Gibson, one of the yardmen, who
was to go with him to Okarino, Johnnie
was a good two years older than Hughie
and twice his size, but he was astonishingly
credulous and could always be strung along
by a plausibly-told yarn. Ho, in the train
on the way to the Bluff, on the little steamer
that took them to Jackson’s Bay, and on
the way to Okarino, Hughie bombarded die
unfortunate Johnnie with blood-curdling
stories of the ghosts that haunted the estate
that was to be their home. Johnnie’s nerves
were in so jumpy a condition by the time
Ferguson’s shack was reached that he fell
off his horse when a bunny shot across the
track.
It was late on a clear, cold winter’s after-
noon when they arrived, and by the time they
had unladen their two pack-horses and had
tea, night had fallen and a moon near the
full was climbing into the eastern sky.
“There’s only one bunk here,” remarked
Johnnie, in a low, husky voice. He spoke
as if he were afraid of being overheard by
someone.
“That’s all right,” said Hughie briskly.
“You have to sleep in the shepherd’s hut
to-night.”
“Not on your life I will not!” retorted
Johnnie fervently. “Not in that very bunk
where pore young Mcllwraitli was m-m-mur-
dered. You—you must be jokin’, Mr.
Waller.”
For a moment or two Hughie was tempted to
insist, but he thought better of it. He could
see himself in a more heroic role than that
of the petty tyrant. “Look here,” he said
to Johnny in a serious, reasonable way. “You
know I wouldn’t ask you to do anything I’m
afraid to do myself. If you prefer it you
can stay here at the homestead and I’ll go
to the hut. But we have to part company
for the night. Donaghy wants a tally of
the stock on the place as soon as possible,
and his idea was that, we ought to work
from the two ends of the place and make
that the first job. It’s a fool notion, of
course, but that’s his instructions and I’ve
got to carry them out.”
It was only very reluctantly, however, and
after much specious argument by the mis-
chievous Hughie, that Johnnie, clutching at
the lesser of two evils, elected to sleep
at the homestead. Hughie had some notion
of pretending to ride off and then creeping
back to scare Johnnie, but it struck him that
it was putting enough on Johnnie to leave
him alone with his terrors. Besides, he had
had a hard day and was tired. “It’s a braw
bricht moonliclit nicht for them Johnnie —
the Scotch spooks I mean,” was his parting
taunt to Johnnie as he mounted his horse.
He had little trouble in locating the hut.
There was a faint but easily followed
track all the way. Thouali he was not
much of a lover of Nature Hughie could not
help being impressed by the wild beauty of
the country through which he passed, wilder
and more beautiful than by day under the
moon’s eerie radiance. The cruel joke he
had played on poor Johnnie forgotten, he
thought of a girl he had been flirting with
in Dunedin, and that train of thought led
to a speculation as to what Duncan Fer-
guson’s errant wife had looked like, and
thence to the tragic consequences of her un-
faithfulness. “It might have been on a
night like this,” said Hughie to himself with
almost a shudder as he thought of the
madman’s last ride. He checked his nag to
a walk to light his pipe. Even as he dropped
the reins to set match to bowl his ear
caught a sound that set him immediately
upon the alert—the distant drum of gallop-
ing hoofs ! But even as he strained his ears
to listen the sound died away and the utter
silence of a frosty night reigned once more.
“Must be cows,” muttered Hughie, to re-
assure himself —but he knew those hoofs
were shod.
A few minutes later the old hut was in
sight. It was the usual weather-boarded
box with the corrugated-iron chimney that
serves all save the best buildings on the
West Coast, but though it was old it looked
sound enough. The door was locked, but he
had a key, and in a little while he was in-
side and his swag had yielded bedding and
supper. The billy boiled on a fire of twigs
and branches and a candle stuck in a beer-
bottle helped to illumine the interior. It
might have been worse, Hughie reflected.
There was a table, a chair, a bookshelf and
a leather-covered stretcher. Tacked on the
wall was a colored reproduction of Long-
staff’s “Breaking the News.” A few old pots
and a frying-pan lay in a corner and there
wms a split sack for carpet. As he climbed
on to the stretcher and drew his blankets
around him Hughie’s eye caught a dark
stain on the leather near the head of the
bed. It didn’t take a Sherlock Holmes to
guess how that got there.
But Hughie’s nerves were tough, and he
had been in the saddle since early that morn-
ing save for a short spell at the homestead :
so he blew out his candle and disposed him-
self to sleep. The moon threw a broad shaft
of light across the floor of the hut, and
Hughie noticed that the one window had no
blind, and that one of its panes was broken.
He fell asleep resolving to mend it with
brown paper.
He woke, not with a start, but with a
slowly-growing sensation of something wrong.
There is a sub-consciousness that never
sleeps, but maintains watchful touch with
all the senses. Sometimes it becomes so
active or perturbed that it arouses the
master-mind which presides over waking acti-
vities. When that happens we remember
a dream. Hughie’s dream was singular and
vivid. The corpse of seven-years-dead Jimmy
Mcllwraitli came and lay beside him on the
narrow stretcher, holding Hughie’s wrist in
an icy grip. And as consciousness of wake-
fulness grew clearer, the sensation of being
gripped as in a vice did not recede. It per-
sisted and grew stronger. Hughie cautiously
opened his eyes and then shut them again—-
hurriedly. The moon’s rays streamed across
the bed, and he saw that he had not dreamed.
There was a body—a cold, stiff body—lying
beside him. And a hand, cold as death,
attached to that body, gripped his arm.
As has been noted, Hughie was not imagi-
native, and his nerves were strong. But this
was unhinging. Ilis first instinct was to
wrench himself free from that awful grasp
and flee from the hut. But he found him-
self literally paralysed with terror and un-
able to make the effort. Inhibiting action
was a mad fear lest the thing beside him
should galvanise itself into dreadful energy
should he attract its attention by moving. He
had read somewhere a story of a skull that
leapt at people in the dark and tore at their
throats. ... and he wondered whether Fer-
fuson’s pickaxe broke Mcllwraith’s jaw. The
cold sweat broke out upon his brow. It was
awful to feel so utterly remote from human
aid. Johnnie Gibson was probably the near-
est human, and he was four miles away.
Hughie would have groaned, had he dared
to make a sound, at the thought of his folly
in insisting on a separation. He suddenly
sympathised most poignantly with Johnnie’s
antipathy to loneliness. When would th P
thing make a move? He would be found
dead in the hut, in the morning, and beside
him—but no, the ghost wouldn’t be there'
-they always went at dawn—or was it ai
cockcrow? It didn’t matter much since ther-
were no roosters at Okarino. It was iusr
possible, though, Hughie reasoned, that if
he could remain absolutely quiet and rigid
till dawn came, the evil presence at his side
might just dissolve away without doing him
any harm.
But even as the hope presented itself the
worst happened. The stiff carcase at his
side jerked convulsively. The grip U p on
his arm tightened, and the thing emitted a
beastly gurgling whine, inexpressibly revolt-
ing. The spell was broken. With a hys-
terical shriek Hugliie rolled from the bed.
Dashing aside the cold hand and tearing open
the door he sprang out into the moonlight. He
was searching frenziedly for his horse, which
had been picketed behind the woolshed, when
a quavering voice from the hut made him
leap like a startled stag.
But it was no ghostly visitant that
addressed him. The voice was the verv
human bleat of Johnnie Gibson. “D-don’t
be frightened, Mr. Waller,” implored
Johnnie. “It’s only me. I couldn’t stand
being all alone at the homestead, so I came
along here.”
It appeared Johnnie had set out about ten
minutes after Flughie, and it was his horse’s
hoofs Ilughie had heard on the way to the
hut. On nearing the hut Johnnie had dis-
mounted and lurked about in the cold until
Flughie put out his light. Then he crept
up to the hut, and hearing Hughie snoring,
went in and lay beside him. It was when
he started to snore himself that his terror-
stricken bedmate made his plunge for liberty.
When old Donaghy heard about it he
laughed till he cried.
CHARLES BLAKE.
A Song of Seasons,
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
What shall I sing now all the birds are
flown,
And the late-lingering roses nipped by
frost ?
Shall I lament because my summer’s gone
Where go all summers? Or because I’ve
lost
The careless rapture of enchanted spring?
No, I’ll not grieve, but rather I will sing
In thanksgiving for evcr-fresh delights;
For tempered sunshine and for tranquil days
And the grave beauty of the winter nights;
For friends and books and music and the
blaze
Of fire upon the hearth ; for daily bread,
And for the little house upon the hill
Wherein, when storms are beating overhead,
We sit together, safe and warm and still.
Lastly for sleep which puts an end to pain,
And rounds the year till spring return again.
N.S.W.
DORA WILCOX.


ď
đ
WESTINGHOUSE
Morse Silent Rocker-Joint
CHAIN DRIVES
Ensure minimum wear —-
Maximum life and highest
efficiency.
Chains in stock —wheels manu-
factured to suit requirements.
Write for particulars
and Booklet BM 414.
THE WESTINGHOUSE BRAKE GO.
OF AUSTRALASIA LTD.,
Queensland Agents—HOLMES & CHURCH, Brisbane. ~,r pCT « p uriipt
>.Z. Office—93-107 Featherston Street, Wellington. CONCORD WEST, N. 5. WALIIS,
Victorian Office —99 Queen Street, Melbourne. T rr ,,. . <a A
South Australian Agents: Messrs. ELDER, SMITH & CO., LTD., Adelaide,
THE MOST EFFICIENT MOWER ON EARTH.
Ifl TCO
HHi MOTOR MOWER
AT SPECIAL CUT PRICES FOR THE
1926 SEASON.
The “ATCO” will make a very strong appeal to those faced with the neces-
sity of keeping in order large areas of turf, i.e., secretaries of cricket, golf, lawn
tennis, and bowling clubs, proprietors of estates of an acre or more, members of
park committees, hotelkeepers, &c. .
It is fitted with a 23-h.p. engine, which develops more than sufficient power
both to propel the machine and operate the cutter, thus requiring only one at-
tendant for guiding purposes. .
The running cost of an “Atco,” thanks to the scientific precision of its con-
struction, is remarkably low. An operator can very easily and completely cut
1000 square yards of turf on a fuel consumption of a quarter-pint of petrol and
oil mixture. . .
A twin silencer and an extra exhaust pipe (turned sideways to avoid annoy-
ance to operator) ensure extra quiet running of engine.
With the object of making this ALL-BRITISH MOWER more popular on
the Australian market, we are offering them for season 1926 at specially reduced
Full stocks on hand.
PRICES: —l4in. cutters, £47/10/-; 16in., £57/10/
£67/10/-; 22in., £B2/10/-; 24in., £9O; 30in„ £llO each.
Printed matter supplied with pleasure on application.
REPRESENTATIVES:
D. AND W. CHANDLER LIMITED,
276-294 BRUNSWICK STREET, FITZROY,
And 234-236 FLINDERS LANE, MELBOURNE.
NEW SOUTH WALES REPRESENTATIVES:
WHYSALL AND BROWN,
BOX 16, KING STREET P. 0., SYDNEY.
18in.,
If any illustration in “The Bulletin” takes your
fancy, write to the Manager, who will quote you price
for the original.
Remington.
Model 17
•<_ & ' / >■’ 1 1 i
■
d
Repeating
Shotgun
20 bore
5 shot*
ALIGHT GUN makes wild fowl shooting doubly enjoyable,
This modern Remington weighs less than 6 pounds and its
smooth working action and hard hitting qualities are unequalled.
With 5 repeating shots it is fast and effective for duck, snipe and
all small game, particularly so when you shoot our 2-3/4 men
case loaded with one ounce of shot.
If/you prefer al2 bore repeater —
ask for the ‘Remington JXCodcl 10,
REMINGTON ARMS COMPANY, Inc.
D. D. BRYANT, Representative
G.P.O. Box 686 E Melbourne, Viet.
n
'
Mi
asssssssssSSSS^Ssssssa^^
- VS.W -Sw
im«
■
Take
far
Sick Headache
Indigestion
Constipation
Biliousness
Torpid Liver
and to secure
Sound Health
' •
m
boxes
find
216.
IRISH LINEN
DIRECT FROM THE MANUFACTURERS
Robinson & Cleaver have produced the finest linen on the
market for over 50 years, by purchasing. from them you
ensure a STANDARD QUALITY AT LOWEST PRICES
Delivery of Goods
is Guaranteed.
Orders of over £lO
Carriage Paid by
Parcels Post to
destination, or by
Steamer to port of
landing.
m
m
MB
W&m-
This beautifully
illustrated Cata-
logue of Fine Irish
Linens, together
with Samples will
be sent post free.
Ask for No. SSL>.
IRISH TABLE LINEN.
From the least expensive to the very finest.
Table Cloths 2 yards square from 11/3 each
with Napkins to match, 12/6 per dozen.
Extra Heavy Unbleached All Linen Damask,
by the yard. Width 56 inches 3/6 per yard.
IRISH HOUSEHOLD LINENS.
Heavy Plain Cream Linen Sheeting, by the
yard. Width 72 inches, 4/4 per yafd.
Extra Heavy Unbleached All Linen Huckaback
Towelling. Width 24 inches, 1/8 per yard.
Cream Linen Tea or Glass Towelling, 22 inches
wide, 1/1 per yard.
IRISH LINEN HANDKERCHIEFS.
Ladies’ Hemstitched Handkerchiefs from 4/9
per dozen; Men’s size from 8/3 per dozen.
SHIRTS AND COLLARS.
Cut, made and laundered in our own work-
rooms. Best quality materials used throughout.
Soft Fronted Shirts, Mercerised Twill, 5/11.
Zephyr and Oxford from 9/6; Linen from 12/6;
Poplin 15/- each.
Linen faced “Castle” Collars 12/- per dozen.
WRITE FOR LIST OF MEN’S WEAR.
ROBINSON &CLEAV
Irish Linen
Manufacturers _
NORTHERN IRELAND.
The Home of
Irish Linen
£
Host ffolhrooASays ~ 5
“Excellent with every
dish—cheese, meat, fowl
or fish.”
■ / T —-A ’
U i SAUCE
HARBOR TOURIST TRIPS
Weather and other circumstances permitting.
Prom Fort Macquarie at 10.15 a.m. and 2.15 p.m.
EVERY TUESDAY AND EVERY THURSDAY.
Fares: All-day, 2/6; Half-day, 1/6. Children, 1/- and 6d.
Luncheon by reservation at Clifton Gardens Hotel. Afternoon Tea on Board.
SPECIAL TRIP EVERY SUNDAY
Adults,
Tels.: 86276 (4 lines).
at 3 p.m. from No. 6 JETTY, CIRCULAR QUAY
1/6. Children, 6d.
Sydney Perries, Ltd.


a Hi
hi
is
t
y
strike first time
Individual design and luxury? /
at usual every-day prices /
Even if you felt disposed to pay an
enormous sum to have a car of the
utmost luxury built to your own
individual orders, you could con-
ceive of no more beautiful, no more
luxurious, no more completely
equipped car than the New Custom
Sedans which Studebaker recently
added to its regular line
STUDEBAKER
New Custom Sedans
For twelve months Studebaker held a
continuous show of the most exclusive
productions of America's foremost body-
builders in the Rose Room of the Hotel
Plaza before the design of the New Custom
Sedans was adopted. From all the wonder-
ful models there displayed the finest points
were noted, and incorporated in an ideal
combination in the New Custom Sedans —*
the most completely equipped of any cars
at any price.
Yet, because they are built entirely by
Studebaker in Studebaker plants, one profit
covers the whole of their production, with
the result that they can be offered at prices
which otherwise command only ordinary
cars of commonplace design.
Long, low-swung, exquisitely graceful in
contour, they are a joy to the eye—yet to
appreciate them to the full you must ride
in them. Thus only can you know the
complete joys of motoring.
Equipment: Front and rear bumpers, engine
therfnometer and petrol gauge on dash,
coincidental lock, oil filter and air purifier,
automatic windshield cleaner, rear-vision
mirror, traffic signal light, four-wheel
brakes, full-size balloon tyres, two-beam
acorn headlights, controlled from steering
wheel.
Standard Six 5-passenger New Custom Sedan, completely equipped - £570
120 in. Wheelbase Big Six 5-passenger Custom Brougham £695
127 in. Wheelbase Big Six 7-passenger Custom Sedan, ‘The President’ £845
Open Cars from ,£395 to £675. Closed Cars from £455 to £865
Prices quoted are for delivery at Sydney or similar ports of entry. For delivery at
interior points add cost of transportation from port of entry to delivery point,
Australian and New Zealand Distributors:
THE STUDEBAKER CORPORATION OF AUSTRALASIA. LTD-
-177 Elizabeth Street, Sydney Branch at Newcastle
TURNER BROS., 396-400 Swanston Street, Melbourne.
CANADA CYCLE and MOTOR AGENCY <Q.), LTD., Creek and Adelaide Streets. Brisbane.
THE ARMSTRONG CYCLE & MOTOR AGENCY, Hay Street. Perth.
DUNCAN & FRASER. LTD.. 42-48 Franklin Street. Adelaide.
ISLAND MOTORS PROPRIETARY, LTD., Hobart. Tasmania.
ADAMS LTD.. 152-154 High Street, Christchurch, New Zealand.
WMB2
