

CAPSTAN
m
'■'M
o'O 1 ,;
USs
■wSirfr/dn^
mmM
ip-fg
m
wm
n
&&
■»:
W^M:^X4
A »; •£ * • v*. *- 9> £^v£j
»//■,O-^
.*p ■ V.-‘ - J ’' C J '-*>
■///
am
vcCy.£r/ f 'V fji
(ffi
Si«
@0
5:
•M
fiO*
A-C
-V~O
it;
mm
§a
sp
£
■l3s
iS<
-i-\
,lo.i
ytf
&
£*&
m
•i)a.
&-CK&fe
ĥ
ħ
OVAL
HEAVY WEIGHTS
Tins of 25 and 50.
TINS OF 25- |/5
TINS OF 50-2^9
The Bulletin
Vol. 48.—N0. 2477.
See page 36*
Thursday, August 4, 1927.
Price 6d.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.


WITHIN the shadow,
By MAURICE C. GROOM.
A book devoted to Australia’s' problems.
0/- (Postage 3d.), ALL BOOKSELLERS.
for tlie 1927 New Library Cata-
whicb is now ready and will be
I with full terms und particulars
tioii to
DYMOCK'S BOOK ARCADE, LTD.,
428 George Street, Sydney.
W*P E
y ’ logue.
sent post f
on appliea
UYSAGHT
■•- r
o
D
R
AUSTRALIA
Support Australian Industries.
All users of Galvanized Iron should specify
Lysaght’s Australian-made
Galvanized Corrugated Iron.
Manufactured wholly from Australian Raw
Materials, and equal to the best imported.
'WuiuUrUeh
t %\\\ %
METAL CEILINCS
Obtain the benefit of low prices and ideal designs
by choosing Wunderlich Art Metal Ceilings for
your rooms. They are unequalled for (a) moderate
cost; (b) ease of fixing; (c) tasteful appearance ;
(d) permanent freedom from blemishes. Stocked
by your local supplier of building materials.
WUNDERLICH LIMITED, Baptist St., Redfern, Sydney.
Write to-day
ree
Catalogue
M. 27
h
ffl
The
BB
of Australasia Limited.
CAPITAL PAID UP j£?4, 68Z 885
Reserve Fund jPjo 775 154
TofaZ CZssets iib 19/7 _Z?IS, 017, 282
• * -J927 JZ 42,909,726
All classes of banking business conducted at
320 branches and 163 agencies in Australia
The Bank provides a complete service to its
customers and connections. This includes
Current Accounts, Fixed Deposits, Overdrafts,
Discounts, Collections, Drafts payable in Aus-
tralia or abroad, Travellers’ and Merchants’
Letters of Credit, Telegraphic Transfers.
ARRANGEMENTS FOR CONDUCTING
Foreign Banking Business
have been greatly extended and a world-wide
service is available through the Bank’s offices
in London and Agents in every important city.
If any illustration in “THE BULLETIN” takes your fancy, write
to the MANAGER, who will quote you price for the original.
HUDSON’S Eumenthol Jujubes
CAUTION. —The large sale of Eumenthol
Jujubes has led to a number of imitations
being manufactured under the . name of
menthol and other jujubes. It is’important,
therefore, when buying to be sure to get
HUDSON’S Eumenthol Jujubes. You may
be asked to buy other jujubes, and be told
they are “just as good” as Hudson’s Eumen-
thol Jujubes. This proves that these imita-
tions and substitutes have no reputation of
their own. and can only be sold on the good
repute and high character of Hudson's
Eumenthol Jujubes.
Sold everywhere, tins 1/6; or forward 1/6
in .stamps to the Manufacturers, Hudson's
Eumenthol Chemical Co.; Ltd., Sydney.
For Coughs, Colds and Sore Throats.
m
D,
A. The Larynx or
Organ of Voice.
B. The Trachea 01
Windpipe.
The Bronchial
Tubes of a dis-
sected luny.
A Lobe of one
of the LuoiCk
The Be d Page
On Being Important
Who is the most celebrated man in the
post-war world? Not Mr. Baldwin nor
G.B.S. Not Marshal Foch nor Earl Haig.
Not even Mussolini nor Mr. Ford. But
without question Mr. Charles Chaplin. As
A. Cl. Gardiner says in his new book, Certain
People oj Importance, “It is not merely
that Chaplin is the most celebrated man
in the world, using celebrity to imply one
who is personally familiar and personally
interesting to others; he is the most cele-
brated man the world has ever known.”
His daily audience is calculated at 12
millions, and it is said that more than half
the inhabitants of the world are familiar
with his appearance.
. Without the film, of course, there would
have been no Chaplin; but in him the new
medium has found its supreme artist. He
has learned that its language is gesture.
Almost alone in his craft, he, in Mr. Gar-
diner’s phrase, escapes from the hypnotism
of speech. An interesting comparison is
made of Chaplin and Dickens. In both
is to be found the comic and sentimental,
the vulgar and the innocent, an intimacy
and yet an aloofness. There is something
of Don Quixote iii Chaplin. He has an
irresistible personality, joined to a com-
plete technique, and to this fortunate
combination he owes his unchallenged
eminence. Perhaps he would be greater
in greater plays, but even that is not cer-
tain, for in the theatre the great virtuoso
is frequently hampered by the great drama-
tist. We agree, however, with Mr. Gar-
diner’s suggestion that a Chaplin film
should never have a happy ending. “He
should always be seen shuffling along a
lonely road fading away into the darkness.”
In this volume Mr. Gardiner has
collected 37 of his arresting studies of
modern men, the protagonists in the
contemporary drama of which he is a trained
and sympathetic observer. He does not
attempt the popular and somewhat tire-
some game of making villains into heroes,
nor heroes into villains, nor is there in
his writing that constant chase of the epi-
gram which we find extremely tiresome.
On the other hand he has a delightful
faculty of summarising a personality in a
sentence.
For example, he says of Mr. Baldwin:
“There are times when he seems to be
a prophet, coming with a message hot from
Sinai, and there are- times when he sug-
gests that Alice has wandered, round-eyed
and innocent, into the wonderland of West-
minster.” Equally true is the remark of
Lord Beaverbrook that “his vanity is be-
yond belief, and no sense of humor checks
the" wild comedy of his self-revelation.”
And there is accuracy and menace in the
admission that “it is impossible to discover
any purpose in _ his activities except the
satisfaction of being active. He pulls strings
not because he has any particular object
in view, but for the love of pulling them.”
And again how accurate and suggestive
is the description of Winston Churchill:
“He obeys no one, fears no one,, reverences
no one. He is his own superman, and is
so absorbed in himself and in his own fiery
purposes that he does not pay others the
compliment of even being aware of them.”
One of the acutest, essays in the book is
the study of Ramsay MacDonald. The
Labor statesman can only be understood
when “the raw Highland youth is remem-
bered.” MacDonald is the product of a
great and sombre tradition. In essence he
is a Scotsman of the sixteenth century
high-minded, disinterested, amazingly well-
informed, intensely able. But his mind is
obstructive. There are no wings to his
thought, Moreover, as a statesman, he
suffers from his characteristic loneliness. He
is remote from his own party, and there
is no one who ' can save him from the
blunders to which he is lured by an exag-
gerated self-confidence.
But the best of all these pen pictures
'• s tbftt °i Sir William Joynson-Hicks—
“.Tix.” Gardiner sketches the pompous, pro-
testing, posing Minister with superb ironic
skill. “He overstates every case, and over-
acts every situation.... He thinks, not as
a statesman, but as a talkative man in a
suburban train who has just read the head-
lines in his favorite paper.”
Dean Inge is dealt with very faithfully:
“There is no one who fills the Dean with
so much rage as a humanitarian, and nothing
which infuriates him so much as the senti-
mentalism of pity.”
As a good Liberal Mr. Gardiner is natu-
rally a severe critic of Mussolini, “a colos-
sal egoist to whom personal ascendancy is
everything, and principles and theories mere
counters on the table.” On the other hand
he declares that Lenin was the servant of
a tyrannical idea, never of personal ambi-
tion. This is surely misleading. Certainly
Mussolini is theatrical, and Lenin was sin-
ister and apart. But Mussolini is a Latin
and Lenin was a Slav. It is difficult for
the man imbued with the Liberal tradition
to find defence for the tyranny that Musso-
lini has created in Italy, but at least it is
effective tyranny. Moreover it is regarded
as beneficent by the overwhelming majority
of the -Italian people. Nor can we see
that there is any reason to suppose that
Bolshevism is permanently established in
Russia, while Fascism is only- a passing
phenomenon in Italy. It seems quite likely
that the'centuiy will see a struggle between
the two principles for European domina-
tion, and the tragedy is that, whichever
succeeds, there must be a temporary ffeturn
to barbarism.
Of course, you will not agree always with
Mr. Gardiner’s volume. But you will find
it charged with valuable contemporary
knowledge and understanding.
A. H. G
Motherless Heroines
Back to the best-known story in the Old
Testament, which concerns the love of a
gin-widow for her mother-in-law, one of
the most extraordinary things in the whole
range of literature is the habit of making
the heroine motherless, like Tennyson’s
Maud, when she is ‘'true as sweet” prin-
cipally because
Some peculiar mystic grace ' '
Made her only the child of her mother,
YV hen she is a heroine in spite of her
mother, that mother is sketched in full
detail.
1 ake Dickens as an example, since his
scope is widest, and he is the admitted
Master of real-life portraits. With only
three exceptions, where the mothers are
shown as a strong contrast—Dolly Varden,
Kate Niekleby and Bella Wilfer—his true-
and-sweet heroines are motherless; yet they
and the near-heroines cover nearly all other
relationships—daughters, sisters, a grand-
child, nieces, wards, nurses, girl-wives, David
Copperfield’s aunt and Florence Dombey’s
step-mother.
It is curious that, while he has no lack
of the conventional respect for motherhood,
and the generalisation that mothers are,
on the whole, better than fathers is spread
ireely over his work, he has given us some
most lovable fathers among his very mixed
collection. Yet among a group of mothers
so startlingly true to life that 50 years
after his death it is still possible to put a
finger on any one and say “That is Mrs.
So-and-so,” there is not one who would
not need the utmost forbearance. Mrs.
Markleham, who “thinks the only return
that can be made her for bringing an un-
fortunate young woman into the world—
God bless my soul, as if she asked to be
brought, or wanted to come!—is full liberty
to worry her out of it again”; voluble,
empty-headed Mrs, Niekleby, satisfied that
nothing could have gone wrong with any
of her circle “if they had only taken my
advice”; maddening Mrs. Wilfer, who tries
to march her family through life to the
tune of the Dead March in Saul; aristo-
cratic Mrs. Skewton, who meets slum-
dweller good Mrs. Brown on the common
ground that both consider a daughter sale-
able property; martyred Mrs. Varden;
helpless Mrs. Gradgrind—have we not met
them all?
Thackeray certainly creates Amelia Sed-
ley and Lady Jane as foils to Becky Sharpe,
but makes it clear that the memory of old
Mrs. Sedley’s querulous selfishness and
Lady Southdown’s tyranny have sent them
shuddering to the other extreme with then-
own children.
Even when an authoress w T ho is herself
a mother tries to make a heroine of one,
the result is generally as unconvincing as
Ethel Turner’s “mother of the wonder-
child” who “sacrifices” herself to travel in
luxury as the chaperon of a-musical genius-,
leaving four other little children with a
dreamilv-incapablo father to the mercy of
hired Jielp. The family falls on evil times
after departure, but through six years
of ease and comfort the Yearning Mother-
heart spreads itself beautifully on paper
without once suspecting the losing fight
with starvation, or asking any report from
the lady-help. The shocking lack of cour-
tesy shown towards the ladv-help, in ex-
cluding her from the correspondence and
sending all instructions through, a third
party, leaves the impression that it was
a precaution agginst hearing anything that
would compel her to drop the pretence of
perfect confidence that all was well, and
either admit it to be a pretence or "come
home.
From Shakspeare down to Ethel Dell, all
writers seem to agree on this point—that
there is no difficulty in sketching a mother
as tyrant, incubus or comic relief, but that
the only way to make her a convincing
heroine is to kill her before the story be-
gins, and so show her only through that
rainbow-haze in the memory which hides
the faults and magnifies the virtues'of the
dead.
ELLAE.
“MS. Only”
The other day a paragraph of about 200
words was returned to me by a weekly
newspaper, bearing the office date on the
back of it, “March 3, 1920/’ The par. had
been retyped and published elsewhere a
long while back, and if it had appeared in
(Continued on page 5.)


Anthony Horderns'
Feature Mens perfectly made
Ready-to-wear Suits
'■'•v'X
JL
ĥ
Worsted Sac Suits - - 105/-
Men’s Worsted Sac Suits. Made in Anthony Horderns’ work-
rooms and smartly cut by experts. The coat has a two-button
front, outside breast pocket; no vent. Vest has a fashionable
medium opening and four pockets. Trousers possess side or
cross and hip pockets; cuff bottoms. Selected from Fnglish and
Australian Worsteds. In medium or dark shades of -
Grey. Plain striped or check effects IUI3/”
Better qualities 115/- to 126/"
Ready-to-wear Suits - - 59 j 6
Men’s Superior Quality Sac Suits of All-Wool Tweed. Coat has
two-button front, double-breasted lapels; no vent. Vests have
medium opening; trousers have cuff bottoms, hip and side
pockets. The latest style features are embodied and the
material is of excellent quality. In dark shades ol
Grey and Brown
Also in Navy Serge. Guaranteed dye 95/-
Better qualities 105/-, 110/-, 115/-, 120/-
59/6
Excellent Shirt Values
Men’s Golf Shirts, Made in Anthony Horderns workrooms from
White Striped Madras. V-cased fronts; double cuffs 1
and collar to match. A reliable quality. Well finished JLU/V
Men’s Golf Shirts, In super-quality Poplin de Luxe. Well fin-
ished, V cased fronts; double cuffs and collar to match. All
the latest stripe effects in Blue, Fawn and Grey
tones
11/6
Men’s Silk Golf Shirts. Made from specially-selected super-
quality heavyweight Striped Fuji Silk. An excellent assortment
of newest stripe designs on light or colored grounds. Finished
with cased fronts; double cuffs and collar to match. ~ ,
Well fashioned in our own workrooms 1 /"
(Men’s Mercery and Clothing—Ground Floor, George Street.)
(}Ye Pay Carriage on Men’s Clothing and Merceiy in R.S.W.)
T
1
Postal Address
SYDNEY.
Box No. 2712 C G.P.O.


NEW PEAKS OF SPEED, POWER AND SAFETY.
~J£)
The Super-Six
Principle
/jiff 4^
70
% Australian
Built
Under this combination of resources, American
and. Australian industry has achieved manu-
facturing economies that no other builder
lor the Australian market shares.
ESSEX.
5-pass. Speedster (Aus. Body) £255
„ Touring „ „ 255
„ Coach „ „ 325
Coupe 335
4-door Sedan - - 345
HUDSON SUPER-SIX.
7-pass. Touring (Aus. Body) - £450
Brougham 550
7-pass. Sedan 635
Also
Hudson 5-pass. Coach*
Hudson Roadster.
Prices at some points slightly higher.
Nothing like it in the World
With the completion of a four year development and
building programme, Hudson and Essex each present an
entirely new line of bodies and an entirely new chassis
that gives new meaning to motor-car performance.
The Sup er-Six principle, long held m check, is released
to its full capacity.
That required chassis specially designed to permit full
expression of its wider, more flexible and nimble power.
It meant greater roadability; and a driving and riding ease
not heretofore known. It meant a reliability and sturdiness
that would meet uninterrupted and sustained performance
at top speed for any period of time.
Riding That is Like Flying.
In both Hudson and Essex, you will note at once, and always
remember, an effortless ease in all performance, that can
never be confused with any other car. It is the exclusive
characteristic of the Super-Six principle. Power is so
smoothly delivered in all ranges of performance that you
are scarcely conscious of it. You take the lead at the
getaway, you dart in and around traffic, or you travel all
day at sustained high speed, with only the way you out-
distance others to tell your supremacy. There is no sense
of mechanical effort, no explosive lunge of power, either
in your flashing getaway or in any phase of this flexible
performance.
The bodies are of such variety and beauty as will satisfy
all demands for luxury and exclusiveness as well as comfort
and price advantage.
HUDSON-ESSEX
Both Are Super-Sixes
THE HUDSON MOTOR CAR COMPANY, Detroit, Michigan, U.S.A.
DALGETY & CO., LTD.,
Phillip Street, Sydney.
MOTORS, LIMITED,
Flinders Street, Adelaide.
NEAL’S MOTORS PTY., LTD.,
Exhibition Street, Melbourne.
AUTOS, LTD.,
Hay Street, Perth,
WHATMORE, McINTOSH MOTORS, LTD.,
Adelaide Street, Brisbane
H. C. HEATHORN & CO., LTD.,
Hobart and Launceston.
DEALERS EVERYWHERE BUY FROM YOUR LOCAL DEALER.


Extensive decks characterise all steamers of
the Orient Line. And the route is the
shortest and by far the most interesting of
all routes to London —Ceylon, Egypt, Italy,
the Riviera and Gibraltar-
ORIENT LINE
2, Ji, 6 Spring Street, Sydney.
Branches and Agencies throughout Australia and hew Zealand.
both papers they would probably ha\e
demanded whaffor. But no freelance can
be expected to wait seven years foi a pai.
The doubleheader has happened now and
again to many contributors. As no answers
are given concerning pars, and the usual
custom is to drop rejecteds in the basket,
what is the writer to do ?
Another weekly paid me for a story after
holding it nine years, and in doing so raised
an interesting point. At the ruling rate
when it was submitted it was worth three
guineas, but in the nine-years interval the
contributor’s living wage had gone up a bit.
The paper wanted to pay me at the old
rate. When I totted up what I ought to
have got in interest in nine years on three
guineas, I received a cheque for the current
price. Incidentally, the story couldn’t be
found when it was paid for.
Lost MSS. are annoying. The contributor
doesn’t get any more when he has to retype
and partly rewrite a yarn in consequence of
somebody’s carelessness. But some careless
people are gentlemen. One paper lost halt
a dozen MSS. of mine, totalling £l4. After
worrying the office for a while, I was told
to make out an account. I did so, and was
paid the full amount. Probably it they
hadn’t got lost, some of them would have
been rejected.
Once I got a frantic wire from Melbourne
to telegraph the last three paragraphs of a
story that was being set up, and which I
had been paid for on acceptance. A puff
of wind had blown the last slip out of the
comp.’s hands through the window, and
though he had rushed after it and searched
the street, it couldn’t be found. I wonder
how many little hopes have perished in
the composing room through lost slips!
Sometimes a MS. comes back for altera-
tions, and sometimes the instructions are
a bit cryptic. I got a sheet of verse back
from E. J. Dempsey, then editor of the
Town and Countky, with this note: “Please
half-sole and heel the second verse.” A
temporary editor of the Evening News
returned me a yarn with the request to
alter the name of the chief character, as the
one I gave him was that of a man who had
been convicted of murder a while before. Mr.
Roydhouse, for a long time editor of the
Sunday Times, also jibbed at a name. It
was that of a real town, which I was asked
to alter to a fictitious one on the ground
that some person in the place mentioned
might take the yarn to apply to him—or
her. Some editors alter names themselves,
and perhaps in doing so keep authors out
of gaol.
But the freelance has many pleasant ex-
periences with MS., and an occasional
windfall. I sent a story to the Town and
Country, and received a note from the
editor that it was unsuitable. When I called
for the MS. it couldn’t be found. So I
retyped it and took it to the Sunday Times.
It was published in the Times Christmas
Number, and simultaneously, to my
astonishment, it appeared in the Town
and Country. Both papers paid me.
In 30 years’ experience I have several
times had MS. rejected and afterwards
accepted without any alteration by the
same papers. This happened once with The
Bulletin. A story was returned to me, and
when I read it over I decided that it was
quite suitable for The Bulletin. I kept
h, a couple of weeks; then, without alter-
ing a word, resubmitted it, and it was
accepted. The editor was J. F. Archibald,
but I have no doubt that neither he nor
M.\ Edmond, his associate, saw the MS. in
the first instance. Jim Ryan (“Narranghi
Boori”) and I were in the office together one
morning when he got a MS. back with a
little note attached. “That’s Alec. Mont-
gomery’s writing,” he said. “He’s just gone
on holiday; so I’ll drop it in again and get
another opinion.” To his delight, when
he called again, he got a cheque. The editor
in this case was James Edmond, beloved of
the freelance. When a MS. was lodged at
the office on Tuesday morning, the money
for it was * waiting on Friday morning.
J.F.A. occasionally got behind in dealing
with contributions, and at one time I had
several MSS. awaiting decision. One morning
I handed in a bundle of pars, and was half-
way down the stairs when I was called
back and asked to wait awhile. Presently
the messenger brought out a parcel, “from
Mr. Archibald.” I carried it home under
my arm in a depressed condition, thinking
that all my efforts of a month past had
been returned. When I opened it I found
the bundle was copy paper—enough to last
mo six months. My pars had been typed
on the blank side of a presentation almanac,
cut into squares!
Another morning I found a brother scribe
descanting irascibly about the treatment that
his precious MS. had been subjected to.
It had pencilling on the title page, and was
folded in a way different from that in which
he had folded it. “When you get your copy
back in the same good order and condi-
tion as you leave it,” he growled, “you can
place it elsewhere straight away. But this
mishandled masterpiece I’ve got to cart
home, and erase the marks and iron out the
superfluous folds and creases. If you don’t
present your child in the unsullied aspect
of a virgin, but in this outraged condition,”
he added, “there’s a natural prejudice against
it. before it’s read.” That may be so with
some, but every editor knows that travellers
drop in on him in search of a home. I
remember a MS. that was sent by a lady
to a city editor. It had been to all the
States, had many marks of disgrace on it,
and showed the stress of long travel. The
editor complimented her on her frankness
in not, removing the tell-tale marks, ana
accepted it.
Generally, when a MS. is rejected, the
author can see its defects, and improves
it before launching it again. But sometimes
the reason for rejection is hard to find. For
instance, I took a yarn one day to the
Sydney Mail and one to the Sunday Times.
Both declined. I then took the MS. from
the Times to the Mail, and the one from
the Mail to the Times. Both accepted.
What doesn’t 'suit one paper suits another.
Rejecteds, however, never worry the pro-
fessional. They go somewhere. The bane
of his existence is the time he has to wait
for payment from some papers for accepted
copy.
E.S.S.
Authors and Status
Arthur Adams and others have written
on “Status for the Author,” but with refer-
ence only to men. Mr. Adams says that when
authors come to Sydney and look for the
literary men of the place they find no centre
to which they can go except the Press
Club. This club, of course, is for jour-
nalists, and may or may not be literary.
With women writers the case is entirely
different. Women have the Lyceum Club
and the Society of Women Writers. Both
of these have open doors for visiting women
writers, as well as for women who liaye
done work in other directions. The Women
Writers are without a clubroom, but the
Lyceum Club, affiliated with the mother
house in London, has its own rooms in
Hunter-street, and there are few women
writers who do not visit us. Those who have
no time at their disposal, or, as sometimes
happens, are ill and cannot go about, are
called upon, and if they get nothing else
they get flowers as a token of friendship.
Many women visitors bring overseas greet-
ings with them from other parts of the
world. As a matter of fact, we have enter-
tained quite a cosmopolitan body of women
during our existence, and many lasting
friendships have resulted.
MARY GILMORE.
The Bookseller
“If you have tears, prepare to shed them
now,” says Mr. Brody in effect, on behalf
of Australian booksellers (R.P. 21/7/’27).
Poor devils! What magnificent structures
are bora of their “struggles with adversity”!
How refreshing to hear of their important
part in “building up the cultural side of the
community”! How base the thought that
dividends might have been their chief con-
cern! And now, it seems, evil days have
fallen on them because of “fierce competi-
tion,” chiefly engendered by the department
store having invaded their preserves. If
you are contemplating an original suicide,
talk to any Sydney bookseller of Tweed
and Muslin’s successful book department.
He’ll brain you on the spot with Webster’s
International.
The one burning topic at all his confer-
ences is the control of the uncontrollable
department store. “Shaking waddies” at
London publishers has been tried without
avail. The publisher relishes alike fat orders
from the bookseller and store, and he’d hate
to offend either. The fact is the department
store is a bogey to the bookseller, and
nothing more dangerous. The store has
successfully sold books to a public that the
bookseller hadn’t the wit to exploit. It
made phenomenal successes of lines he
hadn’t, the courage to handle. The book-
buying habit has increased remarkably
under its influence, and of greater import-
ance to the public has been the resultant
moderate prices in consequence of its
activities.
The store has been teaching the bookseller
how to sell books and he doesn’t like it.
But he is learning. The competition has
given bookselling a healthy fillip, and the
trade generally is much more alert and
audacious than it was a few years ago. It
is useless for the bookseller to waste his
time in futile conference over such retro-
grade questions as price-fixing and restraint
of trade. Better for him to use what grey
matter he has in developing his business in
possible channels. There’s more money in
that.
F. S. FENTON.
“Men, Beasts and Gods”
Alex C. Welsh, writing of the choosing
of school prizes, confesses that he is puzzled
by Ossendovski, and would “like to hear
some authoritative opinions.”
His Men, Beasts and Gods has been a
literary success all over the world. Its
truthfulness, however, has not only been
questioned but positively refuted. Dr. Sven
Hedin, the Swedish explorer, who has am
extensive knowledge of Mongolia and
Thibet, pointed out several grave errors and
false statements in the book shortly after
its publication. He declared that the book
ought to be regarded as fiction.
The ensuing polemic did not prove that
Dr. Hedin had been too severe in his criti-
cism. At last someone proposed that Ossen-
dovski and Hedin should meet in a public
disputation at Berlin. Hedin gave his con-
sent, and, if my memory does not fail, also
Ossendovski. However, when it came from
sounds to things the author refused to meet
his critic —an acknowledgment, I should
think, that his cause was weak.
FOLKE VILLNER.
Novels Worth Reading
This list has been compiled by a com-
mittee, nominated by the Associated Book-
sellers of Australia and Maoriland. It is
issued to sen e as a reliable guide to fiction
of merit: — ,
Books of Literary Merit: Brother Haul, by
Donn Byrne; The Lovely Ship, by Storm
Jamieson; Bernard Quesnay. by Andre
Maurois; The Allinghams, by May Sinclair.
Books for Popular Reading: The Hur-
cotts, by Muriel Mine; The Magic Garden,
by Gene Stratton Porter; Corson of the
J.C., by Clarence E. Mulford; Store of
Ladies, by Louis Golding; The Up Grade,
by George Gibbs; The House of Happiness,
by Ethel M. Dell; The Mocking Chevalier,
by A. G. Hales; The Brat, by E. J. Rath;
Sea Nymph, by 11. Iv. Weekes; I Pronounce
Them, by Studdart Kennedy; Paying the
Piper, by Sophie Cole ; The Small Bachelor,
by P. G. Wodehouse; The Crimson Clown,
by Johnston McCulley ; Madman’s Island, by
lon L. Idriess.
A Satchel of Books
This Believing World, by Lewis Browne
(Benh). A simple account of the great
religions of mankind.
The Usurper, by W. J. Locke (John
Lane). The present cheap edition will bring
before a new generation of readers a book
that was appreciated by their fathers.
Kismet in Kenya, by Florence Riddell
(Hies). The story of a farm in Fast
Africa. Romance, scandal, a human touch
and plenty of boisterous fun make up the
literary pudding.
The Permanent Value of the Ten Com-
mandments, by H. J. Flowers (Allen and
Unwin). The author puts the Decalogue in
its historical context and shows the social
significance of the institutions defended by it.
Mr. Sampson and The Banns of Marriage,
by Charles Lee (Dent). Two one-act plays
whose characters are drawn from homely
folk. The dialogue is natural and direct,
and in the first-named play has a note of
pathos.
The Hope of the Workers, by Austin Hop-
kinson (Martin llopkinson). The author is
an English M.F., and wrote this book for
his constituents in the large industrial dis-
trict of South-East Lancashire. It is all
vague and virtuous —chiefly vague.
The Westminster Alice, by “Saki” (John
Lane). Another section of the collected
works of 11. 11. Munro. In collaboration
with F. Carruthers Could, the well-known
caricaturist on the Westminster Gazette,
the author contributed to its pages a witty
political parody of “Alice in Wonderland,’
for which Could drew the illustrations.
Looking After Guinivere, by Robert Hay-
ley (Stockwell) . The mother of a Melbourne
girl, a coming Melba, catches the child read-
ing Brieux's “Damaged Goods” and warns
her of the perils of knowing too much. The
girl goes to Europe to complete her musical
education and marries an Englishman who
is damaged goods himself. He keeps him-
self aloof, but she leaves him to have a baby
by a lover. Tile lover is killed in a rail-
way accident, the husband cures himse.t,
adopts the baby and is taken back by the
wife. Reads like a parody of the late
Charles Garvicc written by Michael Arlen.
The Dead Ride Hard, by Louis Joseph
Vance (Geoffrey Lies). A dramatic story
against the background of Hungary ui the
revolutionary period when the llapsbuig
dynasty was overthrown and Soviet mie
established. The historical environment is
said to be drawn from authoritative sources.
Bac-Shak, by P. F. blockings (H. J. John-
stone, Sydney). Leaves from a cypher-
hunter’s notebook, vols. 1, 2 and o. ihis
is the third volume dealing with the Bacon-
Shakspearean cryptogram. The volumes are
printed by process line blocks, and the text,
co... Gating chiefly of the letters of the alpha-
bet arranged in weird circles and groups, is
quite incomprehensible to the average mind.
The Crooks' Game, by George Dilno.t
(Hies). Buck Shang, having served a term
of imprisonment in an American peniten-
tiary, comes out to find himself a million-
aire. I-Ie is unable to rid himself ot his
old associates who endeavor to prey on him,
and in the hope of escape goes to London
under an assumed name. Kxeiting tilings
follow. Quite a good yarn of its kind.
Ann’s Crime, by It. T. M. Scott (Heine-
miiun). Mr. Weatherby, of Wall-street,
had a daughter named Anu, who, according
to her mother, “hadn’t laughed out loud in
years.” An Englishman, Sir Richard Fen-
ton, sees fit to die on the front doorstep of
the Weatherby mansion. Now what was
Richard to Ann, or Ann to Richard / That s
where Aurelius comes in ; and the interest
of the traveller bound for Bourke is aroused.
Betsy, by Jane Ashmore (Ward, Lock;
Dymoc'ks).' An Australian story with Aus-
tralian-born Betsy for its heroine. Nothing
more dramatic than a misunderstanding
between the young lady and her handsome
and flirtatious lover fills its pages, but the
author by bright dialogue and happy por-
traiture succeeds in sustaining its interest.
Will appeal to youthful readers who simply
love Ethel Turner and Mary Grant Bruce.
The Son of- Learning, by Austin Clarke
(Allen and Unwin). A poetic comedy east
in the Middle Ages, and described as a
tribute to an Irish tale, “The Vision of
Mac Conglinne.” The principal figure is
a wandering scholar, who in his travels rests
at the Abbey of Core and is beguiled by
a woman. The author is a conspicuous
member of the little band of literary Irish
men seeking to revive interest in Gaelic
romance.
How To Identify Oriental Rugs, by
ffrida Wolfe and A. T. Wolfe (Fisher
Unwin). To determine the pedigree of a
pup is easy compared with fixing the authen-
ticity of a Persian rug. This handsomely
got-up and -illustrated book does justice to
its subject in its form. The outstanding
characteristics of each division, such as
the vase of roses in a Ivirman and the
jewelled mosaic of a Daghestan, are de-
scribed. The book adds advice on the judi-
cious use of these rugs in modern house
furnishing.


CUTICURA
Helps
Business
Girls
To look their best. The regular
use of Cuticura Soap, assisted by
touches of Cuticura Ointment when
required, keeps the complexion
fresh and free from eruptions, the
hair live and glossy and the hands
soft and smooth. Cuticura Talcum
is fragrant and refreshing, an ideal
toilet powder.
Soap Is.,Talcum 15.3 d.. Ointment Is. and
2s. For sample Soap and Ointment ad-
dress; “R. Towns & Co., Sydney, N.S.W.”
Cuticura Shaving Stick Is. 6d.
ħ
h
Water Can’t Wet
Your Matches
if you carry Mar-
ble’s Match Box.
Only big as io-
I
gauge shell, made of
seamless brass nickeled.
Rubber gasket in cover
makes it wholly moisture-
proof. Can’t lose cover.
50 cents —may save your
life sometime.
Can’t Lose This
Trusty Compass
ĥ
Waterproof screw case. I
Double safety pin bracket—
snaps on coat or belt TO '
STAY. Won’t mislead, and
may save your getting- lost.
This * ‘ldeal ’’Knife ’
made of GOOD steel, handy in
shape, great for sticking, skin-
ning, or camp use. Light and com-
pact but hugely strong. Blades 5 to 8 in.
11
MSrbles
Famous Safety Axe
Fits the pocket yet will fell an 8-inch
tree in five minutes. Lead-lined spring-
hinge guard precludes accidents. Staunch,
keen-edged and invaluable to campers.
These are 4 of 60 Marble Specialties you
should own, including Marble’s Great
Game Getter Gun. Drop in and see them,
or order now and your money back if j
r dissatisfied. g.pE
Write for illustrated catalog. Sent postpaid.
MARBLE ARMS & MFG. COMPANY
611 Delta Ave., Gladstone, Mich., U.S.A.
Representatives : Moltlen, Weber & Co., Ltd.,
Box 1 :-Ui).l. Sydney. X.S.W.
“THE WOMAN’S MIRROR,’’
PRICE 3d.
Contains everything a woman needs u know.
Monarch
A
ROYAL
SMOKE
ACTUAt SIZC
The cigar foi
particular
smokers.
All Hotels and
Tobacconists.
6d. each
10 cigars, 6/-
25, 12/6
50, 23/9
100, 46/-
i’ost paid to anj
address.
Sampler Box,
containing two
cigars, 1/- post
free.
CRAIG 8 AITKEN,
5548 George Street
Sydney,
Distributors for
Club Reil
Cigar
Factory.
m
m f
IHfes •
5
ABBEYS
mmmm
PiTT
'
mis
■■.> ■
.-■
'/M&H a '
~~4
r-:
EASY-TO-WEAR
Even when brand-new there’s a
feeling of snug comfort about these
flexible Abbey Shoes that ranks
them above the average.
They are made of tan willow, ir
black box calf, on specially-moulded
lasts. The soles are almost double
the usual thickness. The uppers fit
trimly at the ankle and are arched
to avoid tightness over the instep.
Order by Post . Made
in half -sizes each half-size in three
fittings, narrow, medium and wide.
Price 32/6 per pair. Specify width
needed.
ABBEY
313 George St. & 224 Pitt St., Sydney.
The Wonderful "Lock-Grip” Wire Strain
PO o
LOCK-GPiP PATnoi6l(yi6 f? C DuiCAN
on a iob? Joins, tightenjMand
Z~ the ease Itn /enormous
.I?., tight oMmy fencing
tensile wif# cannot slip
14 inches. It can
it will pull your
/ork—the
through ti
\Veigs!>fMy 41b.,
in your
motor-car out of
nr Gt h> n^i, aild test W—there's no risk Failure
ZwlTdli'S ‘ n ° M M ~
Immta?e^2/8 €a ?,ct , orfan postage, 1/6
ii Z * t plus exchange)
Obtainable everywhere, or write the Agents
X)HEN, SONS S CO PTY., LTD.
Hardware Merchants,
i«2 Street, MELBOURNE
where not junrw-nt.eri
t .t« treat eo
VJ worse-attf 2() year s «
out .:^ l re 'w e R^Ja^nt-ed
«your^ ore e f s o | and
o h°. . G giving ? broken
:o nditrons. lt g ho , dB the b« wes
comfort- . to gether, y
f re.e
We o«e r / 0 -re not et t-
TRIAE. “Jack and the
sosts% u ’discovery
This soeotthc o{ a u and®
within th e J men women
suitable l oi r . te JoT free
Winslows IMPROVED
Air-Cushion Appliance
WiNSLOW & CO.
104 QUEEN STREET. MELBOURNE, VIC.
The Sea-Changeling.
VARIOUS VERSE
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The crazy piper’s widow—
\\ eary and footsore she—
NVas gathering broken driftwood.
Beside the cold, blue sea.
The crazy pip ei .’ s widow,
With a ehild pale-faced and thin,
ladt it beside the rock-pool
When the tides were crawling in.
And seven wailing lapwings
And seven seagulls wan
Circled the weedy rock-pool
What time that she was gone.
the sand was grey and lifeless,
The scrawny trees showed black,
when the crazy piper's widow,
h ull-armed, came hurrying back.
Cut the thin child was laughing,
A seagull at her knee ;
And the mother cried her gladness
That this strange thing should be.
“The sun has sent her roses,
And her eyes are deeper blue.
I shall call her Mouth of Laughter,”
She said, and laughed anew.
And now through storm or sunshine,
__ In cabin or in byre,
No more the widow’s daughter
Would crouch beside the fire.
Out on the windy moorland
She’d run on eager feet,
Plucking the scarlet rowans,
Stamping the meadow-sweet.
She’d hear the heather tinkle,
And laughing she would chase
The wild bees in the pasture,
The pale foam’s flying lace.
She'd hear the grey geese calling,
The peewits from the shore,
And her wild feet would go dancing
Along the wet sea-floor.
‘'Come to the fire, heart’s darling,
Come sit beside the stone!”
The crazy piper’s widow
Sat at the hearth alone.
"I need no cosy fireside,
Though bitter sounds the storm:
The waves have held my feet and
Have kissed them pink and warm!”
"Do you hear the kettle singing,
Heart’s dear, upon the crane?”
"I hear the sea-wind, mother,
And the fall of sad sea-rain!”
"Do you bring a needle, heart’s dear,
And bind your scarlet hood.”
"I would bind the saltweed, mother,
Around the wet driftwood!”
The crazy piper’s widow
Would make the holy sign.
“O blessed grace of Mary,
Can this be child of mine,
“With her bare brown arms a-glisten,
And her black hair hanging free,
And her blue eyes full of laughter,
And strange things of the sea?”
And the years had passed to seven
And the spring tides churned the sliore-
Such tides, cream-tipped, long-spreading,
They had not seen before.
And little Mouth of Laughter,
As the moaning winds rose higher,
One night sat in the ingle,
Crouched down beside the fire;
With her black hair o’er her shoulders,
And her eyes blue like the sea,
And strange, sweet thoughts that harried
And would not let her be.
She heard wild voices calling
That answered each to each—
The full foam on the shingle—-
A crying from the beach.
She heard the lapwings wailing,
The frightened seagulls scream,
And the far-off seals a-barking.
Like sounds from some lost dream.
“Come,” said the weary mother,
“Heart’s dear, ’tis time to rest.
To-night I’d have you with me;
Your cold hands on my breast!”
The child wept in the ingle.
“Hark to the rushing tide!
Fasten the door-latch, mother,
Lest I wander forth outside!”
The crazy piper’s widow
Lay chill and lone in bed.
“No black head on the pillow;
No cold, wee hands,” she said.
“Hard is my Mouth of Laughter,
She cares no whit for me—
My brown-armed little daughter,
With her eyes blue like the sea!”
The cows stamped through the midnight,
Within the steamy byre,.
And the strange child sat listening
Beside the smoky fire.
The morning broke to brightness,
'l’lie sun was shining fair;
But no sweet Mouth of Laughter
Slept by the ashes there!
And all along the moorland,
Beside the curling foam,
They searched the shaken heather:
“Heart's darling! Hasten home!”
Yet no brown Mouth of Laughter
Came running glad and free,
With her hair like black weed floating,
Her eyes blue like the sea!
But close beside the rock-pool,
As seven years ago,
A pale-faced child was standing—
A puny child of woe,
Weeping among the seagulls,
With fretful face and wan—
“ You have been long, my mother,
You have been so long gone!”
The crazy piper’s widow
Night-long lies still in bed,
With a black head on her pillow,
But a heart a-creep with dread.
What if her child’s warm body
Against her own be prest?
There are no sea-cold fingers
Right there against her breast!
Her soul is sick with longing,
For the cliangeling-child has set
A love upon her spirit
That she can ne’er forget!
Hist! Are those running footsteps?
Brown fingers at the pane?
It is only the sea-wind, mother!
She will not come again!
VICTORIA.
MYRA MORRIS.
The Jester.
I take my cockscomb, cross litlie legs, ami
squat,
And roll my bells. Now, fool, the king
would smile.
The ukase has gone forth; and so a while
My wisely-foolisli, merry grin I've got
To wear. Now hear, oh mighty king, this
jest....
Your majesty laughs loudly—that is good.
(Her laughter rang like birdsong in the
wood ;
My love for her was always unconfess’d.)
11a ha! ho ho! Now, king, just gaze upon
This cockscomb.... Ah, I thought that one
would do.
(Her hair was palest gold; her eyes were
blue ;
Her lips were like a red, red rose. She’s gone
Big Giles the man-at-arms to wed to-
day)
Good majesty, that laugh, at least, was
gay.
N.S.W.
ALAN D. MICKLE.
The Song.
Once I made a song,
In an idle hour,
Of a spring-lit tree
And a wind-tossed flower.
Gaily as a boy,
To a dull-eyed throng
Joyously 1 sang
My bright little song.
First they looked around,
Then they looked about,
Then tapped their dull pates,
For they thought, no doubt,
I was mad. I laughed
In each dullard’s face;
Then I took my song,
To a green, quiet place
Where a blue bird sat
On a spring-lit tree,
Where a flower bloomed
Shaken friendlily
By the passing wind.
Here I sang, again
My bright little song,
And ’twas not in vain.
For the wind-tossed flower
And the spring-lit tree
And the small blue bird
Sang my song with me.
So I would advise,
If you make a song,
Never sing a bar
To the dull-eyed throng
Of soft-pated folk.
For they’ll aid and nod—
And they’ll swear you’re mad.
By their puny god.
M.L.
IVY GIBBS.
Fantasy at Dusk.
They stand against the twilight mist,
With curly spikes and tops that twist,
Two Chinese temples quaintly made,
Ebony black, with jet inlaid,
But from their windows specks of blue
Show where the deep’ning dusk peeps
through.
Reeking with pungent fumed incense,
Breathing out mystery, heavy, tense,
Ebony black, inlaid with jet,
They form a perfect silhouette,
Quaint little houses with tops like knots —
Or are they smoking chimney pots?
N.SAV.
WINSOME DURIE.


The Commercial Banking Company
of Sydney Limited
(with which is amalgamated THE BANK OF VICTORIA, LIMITED).
SEVENTY-NINTH ANNUAL REPORT OF THE DIRECTORS
FOR THE YEAR ENDED 30th JUNE, 1927.
Presented to the Shareholders at an Ordinary General Meeting held at the Head Banking House,
343 George Street, Sydney, on Friday, 29th July, 1927.
The Directors submit to the Shareholders a Statement of Profit and Loss and a Balance Sheet
showing the Liabilities and Assets of the Bank on the 30th June, 1 927, and present the following Report:
The balance at credit of Profit and Loss Account, after adding the amount brought forward and deducting Interim Dividend at the
rate of 10 per cent, per annum, paid on 25th January, 1927, rebate on current bills and accrued interest on fixed deposits, reducing premises
account, paying land, income, and other taxes, and providing for bad and doubtful debts, amounts to . .
out of which the Directors recommend the following appropriations:
To Payment of a Dividend for the past half-year at the rate of 1 0 per cent, per annum . .
~ Transfer to Reserve Fund (making it £3,950,000)
~ Transfer to Bank Premises Account
~ Balance carried forward . .
£226,817 14 2
100,000 0 0
50,000 0 0
60,184 4 3
£437,001 18 5
The amalgamation with The Bank of Victoria, Limited, as from Ist January last in terms of the Scheme of Arrangement signed
on 10th December, 1926, was completed on 21st March last.
The Directors desire to express their regret at the deaths of Messrs. W. J. T. Clarke, Director, and P. C. de Crespigny, General
Manager, of The Bank of Victoria, Limited, and also of Mr. H. E. Rowe, who, after serving The Bank of Victoria, Limited, as a Director,
joined the Victorian Board of Management of the Amalgamated Bank.
In terms of Article 94, Sir William Vicars, C.8.E., was appointed a Director to fill the vacancy caused by the resignation of Mr.
Owen Esmond Friend in December last. Sir William Vicars is now eligible for election and has given notice of candidature.
This Meeting is called upon to elect a Director, consequent on the retirement in terms of the Articles of Association, of the Hon.
James Ashton, M.L.C., who is eligible for re-election, and has given the requisite, notice that he is a candidate for the office.
In terms of Article 1 39, Mr. Harington Burrough Cowper was appointed an Auditor to fill the vacancy caused by the resignation of
Mr. Justin Joseph Brenan on 29th March last.
It rests with this Meeting to appoint Auditors.
and a
During the year branches of the Bank have been established at Eugowra, Guyra, Maroubra, Pilliga
branch has since been established at Canberra, the Federal Capital.
and Tullamore, in New South Wales,
GEORGE J. COHEN,
Chairman.
BALANCE SHEET OF
THE COMMERCIAL BANKING COMPANY OF SYDNEY, LIMITED
(with which is amalgamated THE BANK OF VICTORIA, LIMITED),
at 30th June, 1927 (Including the figures of the London Branches by Cable).
Capital Paid Up . .
Reserve Fund . .
Reserve Capital . .
Capital Paid Up . .
Reserve Fund . .
LlrtDlLl X IXI,O.
Notes in Circulation . .
Bills in Circulation . .
Deposits and other Liabilities
Profit and Loss Account . .
£8,560,412 10 0
' i 4,377 10 0
2,520,179 11 2
51,239,267 14 11
437,001 18 5
£62,771,239 4 6
ASSETS.
Coin, Bullion, . Australian
Commonwealth Notes and
Cash at Bankers . .
Money at short call . .
Short-dated British Treasury
Bills
British and Australian Gov-
ernment Stocks and other
Securities
Bills Receivable in London
and Remittances in transit
Notes and Bills of other
Banks
£10,356,690 5 9
1,640,000 0 0
1,135,000 0 0
5,218,071 3 0
5,080,847 3 0
831,450 2 2
Bills discounted, and other debts due to the Bank
Bank Premises, Furniture, etc. . .
£24,262,058 13 11
37,084,510 15 0
1,424,669 15 7
£62,771,239 4 6
PROFIT AND LOSS.
To Interim Dividend for the Half-year ended 31st
December, 1926, at the rate of 10 per cent, per
annum, paid on 25th January, 1927
Balance proposed to be dealt with as follows: —
To Dividend for past Half-year at
the rate of 10 per cent, per
annum . . . . ..£226,81714 2
~ Reserve Fund. . . . . . 100,000 0 0
~ Bank Premises Account . . 50,000 0 0
~ Balance carried forward . . 60,184 4 3
£175,000 0 0
£437,001 18 5
£612,001 18 5
By Amount brought forward from last year. . . . £55,296 12 I
~ Profit for Year ended 30th June, 1927 .. 556,705 6 4
£612,001 18 3
GEORGE J. COHEN, Chairman.
J. R. DRYHURST, General Manager.
We hereby certify that we have examined the bills, compared
Commercial Banking Company of Sydney, Limited, and have compared
in the foregoing Balance Sheet.
the balances and counted the cash in the Head Office of The
the returns of the Branches, and have found the same as specified
Sydney, 14th July, 1927.
F. W. HIXSON
HARINGTON B. COWPER
Auditors.


V
f '
■ >3m
Our registered Great Western
Sparkling Wine label has been
shamefully copied. We warn the
public against spurious imitations.


The Bulletin
Vol. 48—No. 2477.
August 4, 1927.
AT THE THRONE OF KING BOLSH.
THE CAPTORS: “This young devil persists in being happy.”
KING BOLSH: “Enforce my laws. He soon won’t be.”


THE NATIONAL AUSTRALIAN NEWSPAPER
“Australia for the White Man.”
Printed and published by William Macleod, of
Musgrave and McLeod Mosman, for ins
Bulletin Newspaper Co., Ltd., at the Office of the
Co., 214 George Street, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia.
Melbourne Office : 114-120 Flinders Street.
London Office: No. 1 Wardour Street (near Picca-
dilly Circus), W.l.
PUBLISHED ONCE A WEEK.
TERMS TO SUBSCRIBERS
(In Advance only).
Posted, to ant address in Australasia, weekly:
I! months, £1 1/S. ; 6 months, 12s, 6<1.; 3 months, 7s.
To any address Overseas: 12 months, £1 10s.; 6
months, 15s. (id.; 3 months, Ss.
Cheques, drafts, etc., which should he crossed, and
all Ilusiness Communications to be addressed to the
Manager,
Special Notice.
Alt correspondence to be addressed to Box 2521 8.8.,
G.P.0., Sydney.
Insufficiently stamped letters are liable to be
refused.
The contents of this paper are copyright by the
publishers. The right to reproduce or translate any
part of the contents of this number is hereby expressly
reserved by the publishers.
The Editor wilt carefully read and, where practic-
able, acknowledge in the “Correspondence” column
all contributions submitted, whether in the form of
Political, Social or other Articles, Verse, Short Tales
or Sketches (those dealing with Australian subjects
and not exceeding tiro columns in length, or, say,
5000 words, are specially acceptable), Paragraphs,
Betters or Newspaper Clippings. All communications
will be regarded as strictly confidential.
The Bulletin will return all unsuitable MS. when
the address is specified and stamps are enclosed. But
no MS. will be returned or preserved unless these
conditions are observed. When MS. is forwarded
without stamps for return it will be understood that
the copy is to be destroyed if not acceptable. Per-
sonal applications for return of MS. cannot receive
attention. Further. The Bulletin desires those
sending MS. to distinctly understand that it is not
responsible for the preservation or transmission of MS.
To Amateurs in Black and White.
Anyone supplying to The Bulletin original
humorous or other topical drawings in line or wash,
of sufficient merit and interest and adapted for
direct reproduction, or any interesting photograph
illustrative of a current event will be paid for same
on acceptance. Any picture containing a good idea
but unfitted for direct reproduction — i.e., any picture
which has to be re-drawn —will be paid for as a
suggestion only. The conditions under which such
artistic contributions will be received are those
applying to M.S.
To Travellers Abroad.
“The Bulletin’s” representative in is
1,. St. C. Grondona, No. 1 Wardour Street
(near Piccadilly Circus), W.l. Copies of
“The Bulletin” can he obtained from him or
the bookstall in the Main Hall at Australia
House. Also from Messrs. Gordon and Gotch, 75-
50 Farringdon Street, London, E.C.J/.; and W. Daw-
son and Sons, Cannon House, Breams Buildings,
London, E.C-.1/.; E. T. Hole, llolerth Satire Ser-
vice, 1/6 Fleet Street, London E.C.; “The British
Australian and New Zealander,” 1/P/-17 Australia
House, Strand, London, W.C.2; F. Algar, 58 Grace-
church Street, Loudon, E.C.3.
South Africa. — The Central News Agency, Cape-
town, Durban and Johannesburg; Dawson and Son,
Capetown and Johannesburg; Havana House, Durban;
Rhodesia News Agency, Salisbury; Benoni News
Agency, Benoni; Handel House, Kimberley; and
others.
Canada. — G. S. Forsyth and Co., I/f/1 Hastings
Street, Vancouver, B.C.
U.S.A. — Chicago: J. Roland Kay Co., 161 East
Erie Street, N. Michigan Boulevarde; Post Office
News Co., S 3 West Monroe Street, Chicago. New
York: Brentano’s, sth Avenue and 27th Street, New
York City; Schultz News Agency. S.E. Corner 6th
Avenue and l/2nd Street, New York City; Hotaling’s
Neius Agency, 203 West 1/ Ist Street, New York City.
Washington: Liberty News Co., Seattle, Washington ;
Wheatley Neius Co., 701/ Market Street, San Francisco;
Wallace, The Nerv Orleans News Man, 105 Royal
Street. New Orleans. La. : The Wide World News Stand,
51/li South Main Street, Los Angeles, Cat.
Egypt. — Jacques. Horn and Co., the Colonial
Book and Neivs Stores. Port Said, Egypt.
Hong Kong. —Brewer and Co., 696 Pedder Street,
Ilong Kong.
China. —Brewer and Co., 31 Nanking Road.
Shanghai, China.
Penang, F.M.S. — K. Abdul Rahman, Bookstall,
Eastern and Oriental Hotel.
Ceylon. — T. L. De Silva, 39 Chatham Street,
Colombo; Plate, Ltd., Bristol Studios, Kandy.
Papua. —Whitten Bros.. Samurai and Port Moresby.
Fiji. — A. Barker. Suva: Harry Gardiner, Metropole
Hairdressing Saloon, Suva.
Overseas Advertising Representatives.
London. — L. St. C. Grondona, No. 1 Wardour
Street (near Piccadilly Circus), W. 1.; Gordon and
Gotch, 75-79 Farringdon Street. London, E.C.i.
U.S.A. — J. Roland Kay Co.. 161 East Erie Street,
N. Michigan Boulerarde. Chicago.
Postage Rates.
Single copies of The Bulletin (registered as a
newspaper) : — Commonwealth, New Zealand and Fiji:
lOoz.. Id. United Kingdom: !/oz. to lOoz., lUl.; each
additional 1/oz., Id. All Sea Route: 160 z.. lid.
British Possessions and U.S.A.: 1/oz. or part thereof,
Id. Elsewhere. 20z., Id.
fflie'll&'uHelztfi.
THURSDAY, AUGUST 4, 1927.
THE WILLING FEDERAL HORSE.
The Commonwealth has many advisers, in-
cluding disgruntled taxpayers who want it
to make its bricks without straw, and shift-
less State Premiers who want it to make
their bricks without straw likewise in order
to save them trouble, and to deliver the
finished goods free at the door. Many of
the demands are based on a hazy impres-
sion that the Commonwealth is something
apart from the States instead of simply
being the States and an almost empty Terri-
tory or two. The demands most in evidence
just now are:—
That the Central Authority should retire
absolutely from the field of direct taxation
and leave it to the States.
That it should greatly reduce indirect
taxation (Customs of course), so that the
importer may import more to the detriment
of Australian industry, though imports are
already so much in excess of the exports
which should pay for them that as much as
£42,000,000 of the bill has been paid with
loan money in a single year.
That it should take over the States' liabili-
ties for soldier settlement and closer settle-
ment and so on—the bad debts, in fact.
That it should make itself responsible for
the State debts, past, present and future. It
is really doing this on a liberal scale, and it
has in addition uiulertaKen to subsidise the
State sinking funds. How much all this may
cost is purely speculative.
That it should always be ready with cash
assistance for impecunious States, no matter
how they came to be impecunious, and even
if they make a minimum of effort to help
themselves.
That it should make Child Endowment a
Federal or all-Australian matter and find the
money.
And new demands may arise in any quarter
at any hour of the day or night.
On taxation matters the shindy is great
and incessant. Regarding this issue, the
retiring president of the Sydney Chamber
of Commerce made a pronouncement the
other day, and he should speak as one hav-
ing authority and not as the Lost Tribes :
“I believe that the Commonwealth Govern-
ment desires to go out *of the field of direct
taxation ; but. unless the people keep remind-
ing them of the necessity, Governments
have a way of putting things off. The sooner
business men are released from the payment
of unnecessary taxation the better it will be
for the Australian people. What a fine ges-
ture the American Government made when it
returned a large amount of the taxation
found unnecessary! I do not think we are
optimistic enough to look for that, but we
do say ‘Begin to reduce at the earliest pos-
sible moment, and keep on reducing until all
direct Federal taxation has disappeared.’ ”
It is a familiar proposition, and not a bril-
liant one. In 1925-26 the Commonwealth’s
revenue from taxation was £54,373,005. If
“all direct Federal taxation had disap-
peared,” the amount would have been only
£39,198,878. Of that £27.839,888 would have
been derived from Customs, which was
£10,500,000 more than in 1921-22. The rise
was mainly due to the fact that Australia
added £130,000,000 to its debt in these few
years, and by recklessly piling up liabilities
payable in gold it created an insane boom
in imports. The duties collected on these
brought it a great revenue in paper, which
is of no value whatever for meeting external
liabilities. Customs revenue went up by
£10,500,000 in four years, mostly because
it rested on a loan boom which was large.
Excise receipts went up only a shade over
£1,000,000 in the same time, because their
expansion depended on the growth of certain
local industries, and that wasn’t large. The
extra £10,500,000 per annum of Customs
money is due to disappear again when the
cause of it can’t keep going any longer.
Then a Federal Government which had
abandoned direct taxation on very foolish
advice would be almost £26,000,000 per
annum short, in addition to being long a
great many new burdens, Child Endowment
among the rest.
* * * *
Premier Hogan of Victoria came forward
last week with a definite suggestion that .the
willing Federal horse should carry the loss
on the soldier-settlement business, and do
some other helpful acts.' Details remain to
be settled, but the willing animal responded
with its customary affability. The Common-
wealth lent the States £34,694,411 for the
specific purpose of settling soldiers on the
land. Of this Victoria borrowed £11,794,075
(nearly £7 per inhabitant, which is a re-
spectable debt in itself), and Westralia took
£5,431,202, or over £l4 per inhabitant, which
is far worse. All the States borrowed heavily
from the obliging Commonwealth under
other headings, and some of the pi'oceeds
went into the settlement business. Also
they borrowed from other sources as well.
Victoi’ia went into the foolish land-repurchase
business because it has very little Crown
estate left, and Westralia because 954 per
cent, of its area is still public property but
much of it insufficiently close to Perth to
satisfy the craving for congestion. The
Victorian Premier says he has delayed stat-
ing the vastness of the losses lest the revela-
tion should be “too bad a shock,” and the
Westralian man has made a vague announce-
ment to the effect that the full horror of
the situation can’t be much longer concealed.
The worst fears are entertained re West-
ralia’s Group Settlements. Should the Com-
monwealth take over the losses of one or
two badly-wrecked States, it will make them
common property, and let the other States
into partnership on the ground floor. As a
natural result the other States will doubt-
less demand that something be done for
them likewise.
* * * *
The time has arrived when the Federal
Government should appoint itself a Royal
Commission to inquire into its own affairs
and prospects. Despite its paper surpluses
and its alleged over-taxation, it is a pretty
constant visitor to the Anglo-American
money-lender on its own account, and it is
piling up permanent commitments at a
lavish rate on the strength of very tem-
porary funds. Its wisest course, while the
rainbow gold and the shoddy riches lasted,
would have been to spend all the paper
surpluses it could compile in constructing
the South-to-North railway and a few
branches, all free of debt, so that they
could supply cheap carriage and do some
real development. By doing that it might
have turned the N. Territory into a settled
province and a source of income against the
time when income will be much wanted,
instead of the ridiculous frost it is. Prob-
ably the opportunity has passed. Both the
present Federal Ministry and its predecessor
lost various big pioneering opportunities
while pottering round their familiar and
chronic old mouse-hole in the south-eastern
corner of the continent.
THE TOTE FOR VICTORIA.
A thing that has puzzled distant observers
of Victorian politics is the State Labor
party's opposition to the totalisator. The
machine that never stiffens or “takes the
knock” has been established in every other
State, and no Labor Government would
dream of abolishing it; but Vie. Labor has
fought every attempt to legalise it in the
Cabbage Garden. where there is more racing,
year in and year out, than there is in
Queensland, South Aus. and Westralia com-
bined. Certainly a few Labor votes have
been cast for the pro-tote resolutions of pri-
vate members, resolutions which were
patently doomed long before the divisions
were taken, but when the Allancock Gov-
ernment talked of introducing a Totalisator
Bill it was made clear that the whole
strength of the party would be thrown
against it. Circumstances are breaking down
this curious hostility. Labor has formed a
Government, though it is in a minority in
each House, and it has just announced a
deficit of £682,000. It can’t raise the income-
tax as light-heartedly as Lang did, for the
middle class, which pays the bulk of the
income-tax, is more powerful in Victoria
than in Lang’s State; and if it tried to
increase the land-tax Dunstan’s Country
Progs., who hold the balance of power,
might throw it out. In either case there is
the doubt as to what the Leg. Council,
which is strongly entrenched, w’ould do.
The Government could reimpose the enter-
tainments tax abandoned by the Bruce-
Pages — i.e., the rates on tickets of admission
costing less than 2s. 6d.—but that would be
unpopular among its own followers. It must
get more money from some source, how-
ever; so its thoughts are dwelling longingly
on the considerable tote revenues enjoyed
by the other States, particularly its neigh-
bors on the north and west.
* * * *
In South Aus. last year the Government
got £79,600 from the tote. Receipts have
increased annually from £38,700 in 1919-
20; at the same time the non-proprietary
clubs have grown so prosperous that even
the one ranked third can give £4OOO and a
gold trophy for a cup race, while the breed-
ing of thoroughbreds is becoming an import-
ant industry. Yet South Aus. races less, in
proportion to population, than any other
State. Perhaps because of this its city
workers are more comfortably housed and
much less addicted to striking and leaning
on the Government than the city workers
in States where they race nearly every day
in the week. Bookmaking is illegal, and the
Butler Government is not likely to make it
legal, even though a Royal Commissioner
has reported that bookmakers bet “under
the lap” on racecourses, having, in some
cases, bribed policemen to wink at their
operations. Westralia’s income from the
totalisator is between £50,000 and £60,000 a
year. In that State there are straightout and
place machines (place money being equally
divided), together with licensed bookmakers,
who are not numerous. The straightout
machine returns such fine dividends that
starting-price bookmakers refuse to pay
“tote odds for a win,” although they pay
“tote odds for a place”—with a limit. In
N. S. Wales, where there are also registered
bookmakers, the Government drew £237,000
in tote commission last year, though, con-
sidering that the population is six times
that of Westralia and has at least 10 times
as many racing dates, there ought to have
been at least another £lOO,OOO. As a mat-
ter of fact, the amount staked on the totali-
sators decreased from £3,303,000 in 1920-21
to £2,700.000 in 1925-26. This was mainly
due to the fact that the commission was
excessive, the Government taking 9 p.c.
from the pool and the clubs 3| p.c.; with
fractions and unclaimed dividends also de-
ducted, only 86.13 p.c. was returned to spec-
ulators last year. Thousands of punters
preferred to bet “each way” or “tote odds”
with the swarm of shop-bookmakers, who
pay their agents 10 p.c. Hoping to bring
these patrons back, the Government, while
retaining its outrageous 9 p.c., altered the
method of distribution in so fatuous a way
that backers of winners rarely get more than
2 to I—in one case the money was returned
on first, second and third—with the result,
of course, that the slump has become worse.
* * * *
If the Hogan Government decides to in-
troduce the tote, it should carefully avoid
the example of N. S. Wales. The adoption
of the Westralian system would probably
bring the best results. With an 84- p.c.
deduction—s p.c. for the Government and
34 p.c. for the clubs, fractions and
unclaimed divs. going- to charities —it
should yield Victoria at least £250.000 p.a.
This amount would be substantially in-
creased if a “double” machine were in-
stalled, as in South Africa, and it might be
trebled if betting were conrined to the race-
course, as it could be if publication of “the
weights” were made unlawful outside the
racecourse, with exemption for meetings
such as the Melbourne and Caulfield Cups.
But that would require a degree of courage
which it is exceedingly improbable that the
Hogan Government, or any other possible
Vic. Government, possesses.
THE ECONOMIST AND THE WORLD.
The test of the value of a conclusion on
any vital question affecting mice and men
is the extent to which a statement of it can
be condensed without injury. The Americans,
who like to have conclusions in concise
form, tell each other with relish that when
William Jennings Bryan, most spectacu-
lar of Democrats, was asked by a reporter
if he had attended the funeral of Theodobk
Roosevelt, the most sensational of Repub-
licans, he replied: “No, but you can say
that I approved of it.” The trouble about
the average professor of political economy
is that he seldom dares commit himself to
such a definite statement. After he ha.'
taken into consideration all the factors—or
all the factors he can discover—affecting tin*
tarantula industry of the Aleutian Islands
or the craving of the Eskimo for soap as
an edible, he answers those who want to
know whether the industry ought to be
protected or the craving cured by telling all
he has been told about (a) industry, (b)
tarantulas, (c) Aleutian Islands, or (a)
cravings, (b) Eskimos, (c) soap, and wind-
ing up with the sort of remarks that an
American would call “blah” and an Eng-
lishman “flapdoodle.” The World Economic
Conference held at Geneva last May issued
a whole library of reports of the (a), (b),
(c) order and purports to summarise its
conclusions in a Final Report that has
just reached these shores. The best that
can be said for them is that they are con-
clusions that don't conclude.
$ * * *
The general trend, of course, is Free-
tradish. Adam Smith, if he were still alive,
would nod solemn agreement with most >»f
the sentiments expressed, but would get
annoyed when he found that what looked
like a prelude to a re-statement of his doc-
trine was the whole piece. To tell the
nations that they should “remove or dimin-
ish” tariff barriers that “gravely hamper
trade” begs more questions than it answers.
Similarly, when the Geneva pundits say that
“the exportation of raw materials should
not be unduly burdened by export duties or
any other taxes” and that such taxes should
be “as low as possible,” they don’t give
much aid to the President of Czecho-
slovakia when he is wondering whether it
would be his duty to the nation, the lead-
pencil manufacturers and humanity to slap
a tax of a thrummer a ton on exported
graphite. Again, when, on the subject of
dumping, the report says that “every pos-
sible measure should be taken to establish
universally stable conditions of production
and commerce and to reduce the excessive
Customs tariffs of exporting countries,” it
speaks through the top of its hat. The
establishment of universally stable condi-
tions of production and commerce —an
attempt to restore the Adam Smithian
atmosphere so that the drooping blossom
of his creation may bloom again—is an
impossible condition, and Uncle Sam, for
instance, if he were asked to say what items
of the Fordney-McCumber Tariff he con-
sidered excessive, would reply that by Heck
it was a durned good tariff and any son-of-
a-gun who didn’t like it could send his stuff
to some other market.
* * * *
There is an impressive clause about the
“rationalisation” of industry, summarising
a long sectional report on the subject by
D. Houston, one of the leading Yankee
theorists on efficiency. But the word itself
begs whole rows of questions. No existent
industry can be wholly irrational, or it
couldn’t function. “Rationalisation,” as the
American college professors understand it.
seems to be a process of consolidation and
amalgamation of factories and factory man-
agement, the allotment to each co-ordinated
plant of a specialised job, and the cutting-
out of dispensable middlemen in distribution
and sale. But the process, rational enough
though it may appear and beneficial though
it may be to everybody concerned up to a
certain point, doesn’t end up in stability.
As soon as the trust gets to where it is
organised up to beat the band, with all the
little struggling competitors throttled or
pole-axed and a fine big melon lying ripe
to be cut up every half-year, its profits
begin to look so attractive to company-
promoters and its exactions look so wicked
to the public that the legislature is apt to
burst it up and open the gate to the re-
creation of a host of competitors. On the
subject of transport discriminations the
report is equally vague. Discriminations
mustn’t be “unfair,” but they can be of
“sufficient flexibility to permit of their being
adapted as closely as possible to the com-
plex needs of trade.” That leaves a lot to
the people concerned, and they are not
likely to be greatly influenced by the
report’s general flavor, which is against dis-
criminations of any kind.
* * * *
There is one urge most people will agree
with, and that is the plea for industrial sta-
tistics made on a basis uniform to all
countries. The figures ought to be prepared
on a comparable basis, of course, and the
League of Nations is right in the middle of
its bailiwick when it says they ought to be
But the admission that they are not. and
that it is difficult or impossible to collate
all the facts that ought to be taken into a
world view of trade and industry, dogsn t
stouten the legs on which the report itself
stands. It would be beautiful if the whole
world ran its work on lines that fitted as
neatly as bits of a jig-saw puzzle; if each
country gave according to its ability and
received according to its needs; if mankind
were so much a brotherhood that tariffs
weren’t needed nor taxes on trade required
But it isn’t built that way. and it doesn'
help Dr. Maloney, who thinks petrol
chariots ought to be made in Australia, or
the cocky who is worried about the world-


price of butter, to be told that all will be
well when the Millennium comes. Before
he League of Xations can commence to
convert the world to Freetrade it will have
to get a iot nearer to the abyss where the
copper tacks lie.
PLAIN ENGLISH.
A Prime Minister in Gaol
There is riot, mob violence and a disastrous
•stoppage of industry in North Queensland.
The State Government doesn’t interfere with
any energy, though it certainly has the
right ; but it is scared out of its wits and
almost out of its clothes. The Federal
Government doesn’t interfere because it is
lethargic and quite ready to accept the view
that it has no authority. On this matter the
Constitution makes one brief remark: —
IT.>. The Commonwealtli shall protect
every State against invasion and. on the
application of the Executive Government of
the State, against domestic violence.
Now. that doesn’t say that the Common-
wealth may interfere only on the applica-
tion of the State Executive —in fact, it
may be read as leaving voluntary Federal
interference an open question. The clause
is in quite a different category from No. 124,
which says that “a new State may be formed
by separation of territory from a State, but
only with the consent of the Parliament
thereof, and a new State may be formed by
the union of two or more States or parts
thereof, but only with the consent of the
Parliaments of the States affected.”
A really enterprising Prime Minister might
proceed to put down “domestic violence,”
if only to get a ruling on the point. If
the High Court ordered him to desist and
he didn’t—well, the worst it could do would
be to put him in gaol, and if he “purged
his contempt” by going there and immedi-
ately granted himself a free pardon, the
proceedings would, so far as we can see, be
quite in order. In this connection Clause
120 alleges:—
Every State shall make provision for the
detention in its prisons of persons accused or
convicted of offences against the laws of the
Commonwealth.
On the strength of that the Federal law put
some very noisy offenders into Westralian
gaols, and the State Labor Ministry sympa-
thetically let them out again. Compared
with that grossly irregular proceeding, the
act of the Federal Prime Minister in pardon-
ing himself for a breach of Federal law, if
it proved to be a breach, would be almost
oppressively orthodox.
: *
Witnesses fi'om Maoriland.
The Bruce-Page Government has had itself
measured for a Royal Commission to in-
quire into childhood endowment and kindred
matters, that being the orthodox way to
shift the Ministerial responsibility and spin
the matter out. Witnesses will naturally
be in demand. Therefore it would be a fine
idea to ask the Maoriland Government to
lend the local official who knows most about
the business to divulge all his information.
Though the Dominion has never possessed
a Labor Ministry, least of all a Slang-
whaxg Labor Ministry, it pays war pen-
sions. old age pensions, widows’ pensions
(this includes the wives of lunatics), and
pensions to the blind, to sufferers from
miners’ phthisis and to persons more or less
incapacitated by the great ’flu epidemic.
Its old age pensions date back 29 years.
In addition a child endowment system,
applicable to the third child and all subse-
quent children, began to operate last April
Measured by the sum actually paid to each
ancient, recipient, the Maoriland old-age
pension is a shade more liberal than that of
Australia. And in proportion to population
the whole amount donated to the needy and
infirm (not including the child endowment,
which hasn’t had time to appear in the
accounts yet) seems a trifle better than the
Commonwealth’s almsgiving, even with the
baby bonus thrown in.
The Maoriland child endowment of 2s.
per week is not up to Premier Lang’s
five-shilling election display, but it is paid
out of the Treasury, so it doesn’t produce
that disastrous increase in the cost of living
which followed so closely on Industrial
Commissioner Piano’s award. The Lang
child endowment method doesn’t consist in
Lang paying, but in ordering employers to
find the necessary funds with increased
wages thrown in, and the employers are
naturally and inevitably adding the amount,
or as much of it as possible, to the cost of
living, which tends to nullify the benefit.
Another matter to be taken into considera-
tion is that Maoriland doesn't use loan
money so lavishly and consistently and in-
discriminately as even the most honest of
the Australian States docs, so it has to cut
its coat more according to its cloth and
less according to the money-lender’s cloth.
The Dominion added £6 15s. 9d. per head
to the national liabilities between 1920 and
1926, which was rather bad; but N.S.W.
added £l9 ss. 7d., which was much worse.
Yet it is only since June, 1926, that the real
financial madness of the Slang Government
set in.
In many matters, including employers’
liability, the community across the Tasman
Sea has done splendid pioneering work, and
experts who could tell the Bruce-Page Com-
mission everything it wanted to know con-
cerning the Dominion’s “experimental legis-
lation” should be worth a shipload of the
habitual old witnesses, who • are largely
trades union secretaries and Foreign-trade
cranks.
Lang’s Strong Mixed.
The quarrel in the ranks of N. S. W ales
Labor had every appearance of splitting
the party as definitely as the conscription
business in 1916. But, the tumult and
the shouting having died, Lang steps out
in front of forces which the other side can-
not afford to treat lightly. They include
Communists and all manner of Socialists—
“members of the Communist party” can’t
belong to the A.L.P., but individual Com-
munists can—while “industrialists” who
believe in the 0.8. U. rub shoulders with
conservative craft-unionists. It is a queer
mixture, and Lang himself is an odd com-
bination of demagogue and provincialist.
But the mixture will certainly last till the
general election is over, and if there are
obvious elements of weakness there are
also elements of strength.
The left and right wings of “the Move-
ment" have; been struggling for the mastery
ever since the war. For years the right
wing was in the ascendant; its decline dates
from the revelations as to corrupt pre-selec-
tions, with sliding panels in the ballot-
boxes. In the fury which followed the
exposure, the leaders of the left-wingers
swung into the fight to “clean up the
Movement.” Solid Laborites of the kind
that followed Andrew Fisher, indignant
at. the dirty methods of the professional
ballotists, fell in behind. The fact that one
of those whom Labor’s tribunals found
guilty was a boss of the A.W.U. brought
many of the craft-union officials into the
line. The A.W.U. had taken under its
protection whole sections of workers that
the craft unions had looked upon as their
property. Thus when the fight reached the
stage where it was a matter of supporting
the Conroy A.L.P. executive, behind which
was the A.W.U., or the Seale executive,
which was against the A.W.U., it did not
take the rank and file long to decide.
Honest opposition to corrupt ballots and
fear of the “poaching” proclivities of the
A.W.U. have been skilfully exploited by the
Reds. They have no illusions. To them
Lang represents a leader prepared more
than any of his predecessors to swallow
the Moscow objective, to accept their
friendship and advice, and, above all, to
respond to the pressure which they exert
in the unions. They are convinced that
the great mass of people who have hitherto
voted Labor will accept accomplished
facts and continue to vote Labor, even
though Labor has changed so violently that
men like Loughlin and Minahan secede.
That conviction will probably be justified
as far as the coming election is concerned.
The result will be the certain return of Lang
unless every possible vote on the other side
is cast against him.
+
“Why Should Sheep Die in Millions?”
Dear Bulletin,— “C.J.H.” (B. 7/7/’27)
opens under the above heading with the
statement that “Seven million sheep have
recently died in Queensland and ten millions
are on the verge of starvation in New South
Wales. Can’t,” he asks, “the S.P.C.A. force
some law through to compel owners to make
provision for the inevitable droughts?” and
adds dramatically: “Ten million dead sheep !'
Twenty million hideous empty red eye-
sockets. And what a hell of lingering
agony!” “C.J.H.” then proceeds to tell
us why sheep should not die in millions.
The instructions are simple and direct, viz.:
(1) Green oats make fine ensilage suitable
for all kinds of stock, including ewes and
lambs.
(2) Ensilage is simply and easily made.
(3) Oats can be grown on any slieep run
in N.S.W. at least one year out of every
two.
(4) One hundred acres of oaten silage will
provide a full ration for 1000 sheep for a
year.
(5) Three thousand sheep will yield a good
living in any part of N. S. Wales.
(6) Each owner should be compelled to
store sufficient silage to feed practically the
whole of his sheep for one year.
(71 Then N. S. Wales could carry 100
million sheep.
Now, that is a very mischievous outpouring.
Thousands of good folk with no knowledge
of pastoral matters may swallow it wholly
or in part as a true indictment.
Drought losses are hideous, morally and
materially, and the men and women who
have to work through those droughts go
through a “lingering hell of agony” as well
as the sheep, and the “red eyesockets” are
more in evidence in the striving humans
than in the dead sheep. “C.J.H.” has not
discovered a remedy; he has merely “rushed
in where angels fear to tread.”
In Western N.S.W. and Queensland the
men who shoulder the responsibilities of
station management have their share of
brains, and more love for animals and
nature than the average man; but they have
not yet been able to solve the problem that
“C.J.H.” has disposed of so easily. Let me
state a few facts.
There are many properties in Western
N.S.W. where a crop of oats could not be
grown once in five years; but let us accept
“C.J.H.’s” statement that the crop could
be grown once in two years. To provide
food for 100 million sheep for one year
would require (at 100 acres per 1000 sheep) .
10 million acres, much of which would
require to be kept cultivated for the whole
12 months previous to sowing (by “adopting
the simple fallowing methods,” etc.). To
sow this area would require seed equal to
the whole of the oats produced in the
Commonwealth during the year 1919-20. The
crop would then have to be harvested and
turned into silage, by which time something
over £3 per acre would have gone west. Let
us say only a trifle of thirty million pounds
for the ten-million-acre crop! And this
little sum would be buried for five years
without interest, since “C.J.H.” says it would
be necessary to dig it up only once
every five years! In the year 1919-20, the
total area under cultivation in the whole
Commonwealth for wheat, oats, hay, green
forage and maize was under million
acres.
Again, re “C.J.H.’s” statement that the
product of 100 acres will feed 1000 sheep
for a year. If this were so, it would be
"farming made easy,” but it is not so. To
feed 1000 sheep for one year, Sundays in-
cluded, would require at least the equivalent
of 163 tons of prime hay, and even feeding
on these lines “C.J.H.” would be in danger
from the S.P.C.A. The average yield of hay
per acre in N. S. W., taking into considera-
tion only the farming districts, is about 112
tons per 100 acres, or 50 tons short of the
minimum required to give 1000 sheep one
war-time ration every 24 hours for a year.
But assuming that “C.J.H.” could grow
sufficient ensilage to feed his 100 million
flock for a year without financially break-
ing this optimistic grower. How does he
propose to carry on when two drought years
arrive in succession? This is happening in
the Central West of Queensland at present.
No! Sufficient fodder can not be grown
where the sheep are, to provide for drought
years; but what about taking the sheep to
where the tucker grows? Let “C.J.H.” sool
the S.P.C.A. on to the responsible Govern-
ments in an- endeavor to have the railways
linked up so that the sheep from drought-
stricken areas may be moved to more
favored districts. Had there been 250 more
miles of railway in operation, and more
rolling stock, in Queensland last year, five
million sheep that perished might have
been saved.—Yours, etc., O.M.
♦
Mr. Garden’s Navy.
While the recognised naval powers of the
world have been attempting to manoeuvre
each other into an inferior position at the
Naval Disarmament Conference at Geneva,
a new cloud has been rising in the Baltic,
where lies the naval- might of Russia.
It may be remembered that a year or
so ago the rehabilitated Russian havy held
its first annual manoeuvres, operations
being unfortunately brought to a close by
the seasickness of nearly all hands. As was
justly pointed out, even Nelson was always
seasick, and the. Soviet Navy’s experience
could not therefore be taken as proof of
inefficiency. Since then training has be-
come intensive, and last week the Naval
Commissar for War, who calls himself the
Steersman of the Fleet, addressed his com-
rades and requested them to be ready to
tackle the British Navy early next year.
The British Navy is in a dreadful condi-
tion—always has been, as all experts have
maintained, are maintaining and ever will
maintain. Nevertheless, nothing would
please The Bulletin' better than that the
might of Russia-on-sea should proceed to
expose Britain’s naval feet of clay. The
whole bizarre edifice of Russian Sovietism
has been built on a series of gigantic bluffs.
It is time one of the most transparent of
them, the alleged mighty armed force of
the Soviet, was called. But we haven’t the
faintest hope that Mr. Garden and his
friends will hear the call.
- ♦
Grievances Under the Palms.
The cause of most of the sporadic trouble
between residents of the Pacific Islands and
their Governments lies in the fact that the
Lieut-Governor of Papua and the Admin-
istrators of the other Territories and Man-
dates personally nominate both their legis-
lative and executive Councillors. The con-
sequence too often is that pliable men are
chosen for these positions, in preference to
such as would dare to assert their opinions.
Having no say in the selection of either
Council (the N.T. excepted)’, the citizens
murmur in vain. If they grumble too
loudly, the local hierarchy, through its
underlings, readily devises some ordinance
for their discomfiture. Being without
representation in the parent Parliament of
the Commonwealth or N.Z., the cry of the
settlers pioneering these places is the voice
of dogs howling in the wilderness. The
inevitable happens sooner or later. Griev-
ances which if discussed openly would
prove to be very small pumpkins acquire
mammoth proportions if they are repressed
long enough, and those who fancy they
suffer from them are then fit for almost any
violence. It looks as if something of the
sort is now happening in Samoa.
+
Lang and an Old Laborite.
Dear Bulletin, — Lining a plain, ordinary
person. I have nearly always voted Labor.
It seemed to me that the Labor crowd—
broadly speaking—were out to better the
conditions of 70 per cent, of the people; and
I was one of the 70 per cent. Their methods
were often crude and rather doubtful, but
at least Labor was striving for higher things
than thi' wealthy party of York and
Flinders streets seemed to be.
Yet in two months’ time I. in common
with a lot of people like myself, am going
to vote against Lang. In the first place,
I do not believe he is honest enough to be
trusted. I know there is only a very thin
line between diplomacy and dishonesty;
and I know and countenance the fact that
all political parties are forced by expedi-
ency to deviate from the straight path. But
there is such a thing as overstepping the
mark. I can stomach a lot of things, but
I can’t stomach the appointment of Kay.
I can nod understandingly at many
shady acts, but I can’t overlook a Premier
breaking his pledged word, as Lang did
the last time he postponed the elections.
When a man’s cobbers fall out with him
and call him dirty names (like half of
Lang’s Ministers have been doing lately),
there viust be a rather good reason for it all.
Besides, I don’t think he’s half as clever
as we are asked to believe. In fact, to me
he seems a proved incompetent. He had
three goes to abolish the Upper House and
missed the ’bus every time. Then, again, lie
brought in a newspaper tax without making
anjr inquiries into the legal aspect of the
thing. I know I had to fork out a lot of
pennies which I could very well have spent
on a new chair before the legal people
unanimously threw Lang’s plan out. If
a Premier doesn’t know what he can and
what he can’t do, he ought to make room
for someone who does know —especially
when, as in this case, his ignorance costs
people a deuce of a lot of money.
There are other reasons why I’m going
to vote against Lang; but those two ought
to suffice—that lie’s neither honest nor com-
petent enough. I shall go back to Labor
when Labor goes back to its old ideals.
—Yours, etc., Kelby.
♦
The Corpse and the Car.
Dear Bulletin, —“Death and the Motor-
car” (B. 21/7,/’27) is very timely. The posi-
tion is a most serious one and action on
the part of the police is urgently needed.
To my mind the remedy is quite simple.
There is one thing, and one thing
only, that will make motorists generally
drive with due care, and that is an amend-
ment of the present regulations to provide
a minimum suspension of license (say, three
months) on conviction for speeding or reck-
less driving, leaving the maximum period of
suspension (say, up to one year) in the dis-
cretion of the magistrate. This, together
with increasing the minimum fine to, say,
£5 or £lO, would bring the matter home to
motorists personally as no amount of talk-
ing or advice possibly could, and would
make them realise, as good drivers do, that
they must take no chances.
The present regulations leave altogether
too much to the discretion of the magis-
trates, who are far too lenient. They
already have the discretion to suspend a
motorist’s license, but rarely exercise it, and
the fines imposed are ridiculously small.
The average motorist is, I think, reason-
ably careful, but it is the wild and reck-
less driver whom the above regulations
would soon put an end to. Until motorists
are affected personally, on conviction for
speeding or reckless driving, by having their
licenses suspended, together with a fairly
substantial fine, the present very serious
state of affairs will continue on an increas-
ing scale.—Yours faithfully, F. E. McElhone.
»
The Railways Want a Mussolini.
The Canadian National Railways’ surplus
of £1,400,000 for last year shows what can
be done by unified control, uniform gauge,
freedom from political interference and
standardisation. The C.N.R. consists of
22,681 track miles, approximately equivalent
to the combined mileage of the mainland
States of Australia (22,723). But this is
unfortunately about the only point of simi-
larity.
When the railroads of Canada were
placed under the control of Sir Henry
Thornton in 1923, they were a heterogene-
ous collection of impecunious concerns at
variance in policy, sans standardisation in
permanent' way and equipment, and some
of them subject to erosion from the ebb and
flow of the tide of political interference,
but for all that they were not so thoroughly
damned as Australian railways to-day in
that they yet possessed a uniform gauge.
In 1925-26 the total loss on the Australian
railway systems was £7,103,000, and for the
financial year just closed the losses re-
ported include Queensland, £2,043,828; South
Aus., £930,729; and Victoria, £so,ooo—the
others have yet to speak. Only one rail-
way in Australia—the Commonwealth’s
Trans-Australian—has been able to show
consistently improved finances during the
past few years, and this notwithstanding
that it runs through a sparsely populated
territory and has to deal with a boiler-
water problem which has baffled the world’s
experts. According to Federal Minister
for Railways Hill, this railway will more
than pay working expenses for the year
just closed.
While our railway systems continue to
be exploited by vote-catching politicians
little better is to be expected in State rail-
way finances. Railway Acts designed to
remove from the political arena what Gov-
ernments are pleased to describe as their
“business undertakings” are not inviolate
from the depredations of successive political
packs, and until a system of independent
and unified control is introduced similar to
that operating in Canada (and also in S.
Africa, where the last annual surplus was
£1,083.998), Australians’ millions will melt
away year by year in railway deficits.
Visitors from abroad stand aghast at our
gauge muddle, which remains A T ery much as
it was when the Royal Commission sub-
mitted its report in 1921. No wonder the
American railwayman, who has a passion
for standardisation, marvels at the large
designing staffs of our many systems, each
striving independently in Bohemian enthu-
siasm to create records in multiple shapes,
sizes and descriptions of track equipment,
rolling stock and their multifarious parts.


STRENGTH, FLEXIBILITY, LONG SERVICE
ĥ
ħ
h
ĥ
are inherent in every inch of
MANGROVITE”
Leather or Raw-hide
BELTING
Special tanning processes fully preserve
the natural grain of the leather, and every
belt that leaves the Mangrovite factory
is guaranteed.
For the various little drives on farm machinery “Mangrovite” is ideal; it is unaffected by
extremes oi heat and cold, dust, etc., and will give years of unfailing service.
MANGROVITE BELTING LTD.,
Charles Ludowici, Managing Director,
49 York Street (Wynyard Square), Sydney.
JBEAM WIRELESS
of Science GtierDistance.
HIGH-SPEED TELEGRAPH SERVICE AT REDUCED RATES TO GREAT
BRITAIN, IRELAND, AND THE CONTINENT OF EUROPE.
RATES TO ALL PARTS OF THE UNITED KINGDOM:—
Vl-eek-end messages .... sd. per word (minimum 20 words).
Daily Letter Telegrams.. 6d. per word (minimum 20 words).
Deferred Telegrams I Od. per word (no minimum).
Ordinary Telegrams 1/8 per word (no minimum).
For all Classes of Business and Private Telegrams. All Registered
Addresses, and all private Codes can be used.
Monthly Accounts will be opened for regular users of the Beam Service.
Beam Wireless Messengers will call for telegrams anywhere in the city
upon telephoning 87051. Telegrams marked “via Beam” can also be handed
in at any Postal Telegraph Office in the cities, suburbs, or country through-
out Australia.
Accepting office is open always to the public at
THE BEAM WIRELESS OFFICE,
47 YORK STREET, SYDNEY (top Wynyard St.), one minute G.P.O.
Amalgama^d^j^Wireles;
' Lsiustrala*iaj
"Send Message* VIA BEAM'cmdSaveJVionei
POLITICAL
POINTS.
Customs Minister Pratten lias been nego-
tiating hard to induce British manufacturers
to open branch establishments in Australia
and become absentee capitalists. He is confi-
dent that £5,000,000 will be invested in this
way. Australia will get the wages, anyhow,
even if .J. Bull secures the profits. Still
£5,000,000 isn’t much, being equal to about
four months’ outlay on imported motors, and
when Australia has to coax distant manu-
facturers to come here and show us how to
do things, it almost sounds as if we were
a primitive rac e just beginning to take notice.
The fact that one tttate (S.A.) has started
to import coal from England also looks primi-
tive enough.
The question is being raised, and will be
raised a great deal more, whether some of
N.S.W. Industrial Commissioner Piddington’s
decisions are not null and void as well as
ridiculous. When “Piddo’s” colleagues are
evenly divided (and as they represent em-
ployers and employees respectively, they gen-
erally are) Piddo could make a majority
decision by coinciding with either party. But
when he gives his own verdict, which agrees
with neither of the others, he isn’t a majority
though he may think he is. He is a one-to-
two minority, or even less than that.
Vic. Railway Committee has turned down
t he that State should acquire,
for £12,000, the Mclvor Co.’s tramway be-
tween Heathcote and Tooborac. Beckett,
Minister for Forests, has also declined the
offer of a co. now in liquidation to sell the
Government a sawmill at Tatong, up Beech-
worth way, for £7OOO. Jones, Beckett, Wil-
liams and Bailey are keen business men as
well as Laborites, and Slater lia s a lawyer’s
way of coldly examining the details of a
proposition before touching it.
The position after the tumultous Labor
conference might be summarised thus: A
violent section captured Premier Lang and
his new Ministry, which was easy, and threat-
ened to divide the whole concern into Com-
munist and Labor sections. Therefore Fed-
eral L/abor-leader Charlton surrendered to
the section “to preserve the unity of
the party. It is inferred, in consequence,
that if Charlton belonged to the Christian
church, and if half of it turned Moham-
medan, and refused to come back, Charlton
would turn Mohammedan also “to preserve
the unity of the Christian church.” It is
.lust possible that J. Iscariot went over for
the sake of unity.
Queensland Labor Government’s decision to
permit the slaughter of native-bears shows
how desperate its position has become. It
isn’t a case of increasing revenue in the Land
of Misrule but of providing work for clam-
orous followers at no cost to the Government.
The cost of bears doesn’t count, of course.
The IJ.S. has consistently refused to join
the League of Nations, and it insists very
strenuously that no European State shall
meddle, under ai*y provocation whatsoever,
with the affairs of North or South America.
Yet it was President Coolidge who organised
the Geneva Conference and attempted.to lay
down limitations as regards the naval
defences of Europe. The central idea was
that Britain should be allowed no more
vessels of war than the U.S., though J. Bull
depends for the great bulk of his food sup-
plies on foreign countries, and must keep
the sea routes protected or perish, while
Uncle Samuel can live without any sea-borne
supplies at all. A recent report is that J.
Bull’s persistent refusal to acquiesce in this
arrangement has “caused amazement at
Washington.”
The usual sort of talk has broken out in
a fresh place at and around Sydney Town
Haul. This time the subject is a contract
with a Yankee firm for road material, which
was entered into in the first place without
public competition, and which it is proposed
to renew at an increased price, also without
public competition. In addition to this the
insatiable coal-mine hunger of Labor city
stepfathers is said to be breaking out in a
desire to purchase the Balmain (Sydney)
SIGNS OF SPRING.
“The Tasmanian Government has disclosed a surplus of £185,143 for the year.”
PREMIER LYONS: “How’s that, everybody? All done by kindness (mostly Federal).”
Colliery. This concern was floated in 1908,
and pursued the elusive mineral to a depth
of nearly 3000 ft. if closed in 1917 and
re-opened in 1923, and has done nothing
sensational since. This rather faded asset
is offered t.o the City Council at £300,000,
though the paid-up capital is only £265,000,
and the stock exchange valuation is much
less than that.
The Hogan Government has announced
its decision that Victoria shall be born again,
and if it keeps its job long enough and doesn’t
forget it will go down to history as the most
wonderful Ministry on the State’s record. The
idea is to create local elective harbor boards
for five ports, from Corner Inlet on the
extreme east to Portland in the far west.
These bodies are to have extensive rating
powers over their respective hinterlands, some
borrowing powers (without which nothing is
complete in Australia), the Government’s
blessing and the use of its experts when re-
quired. The one jarring note is the statement
that “some years must elapse” before there
will be much to show for the new endeavor.
When it was a matter of spending £20,000,000
of loan money on buying land at boom
prices for settlement, only four years elapsed
before the work was completed.
The N.S.W. Nationalists are churlishly un-
grateful to the young fellows who take on
hopeless fights which the old codgers of the
organisation avoid. W. S. Gee, who opposed
Theodore in Dailey and shaped well, has been
refused a nomination for one of the Assem-
bly seats which the party can win. So has
A. S. Henry, who came out for West Sydney
after T. J. Ryan’s death and polled better
than any Nationalist before or since—the
voting was 7557 for Lambert and 5237 for
the Digger lawyer. Henry’s showing on that
occasion so impressed some of the Labor
people that when it was all over they invited
him to come over to their side. Labor has
sins of its own to answer for, but it has
none of the mean-spirited mistrust of youth
which is so blighting a feature of N.S.W.
“Nationalism.”
Honorary Minister Disney, M.L.C.. of the
new Victorian Hogan Ministry, leaped into
sudden notoriety with a proposal for mending
the finances by putting a tax on all pas-
sengers who leave the State by sea. He pro-
posed £1 on first-class and iOs. on second-
class overseas passengers, and something less
on inter-Staters. Even if the scheme wasn’t
more absurdly illegal than Lang’s newspaper
excise it would only yield a trifle towards
the one-million deficit, 64,276 departures
being last year's record ; but Disney evidently
thought he had struck a goldmine.
It is regarded as certain that British
trades unions will shortly break off communi-
cations and friendly relations and everything
else of a breakable nature with the bullying
and bloodstained push at Moscow. “Can
anybody imagine,” asked a Labor M.P.. “why
we should allow’ Tomsky to call our leaders
‘lickspittles,’ and to attempt a Communist
dictatorship?” If Tomsky had applied his
offensive epithet to a number of leaders in
this country, he would have been on a better
wucket. Though absolutely ferocious in their
hostility to Australian employers who pay
good wages for short hours, they go down
on their bellies to accept any doctrines that
.Moscow cares to send out to them.
The N’.'S.W. Country party is showing a
refreshing sportsmanship in its arrange-
ments for the State election. While the
A.L.P. and the Nat. Federation complain
that it is hard to get candidates for “diffi-
cult” seats, Buttenshaw, the Cocky leader,
is taking on the very tough proposition, of
Lachlan. Hugh Main, M.L.A., who is going
for Temora, says he will stand down for
Buttenshaw if he wins and his leader loses.
In Byron there were three candidates for the
nomination —Stuart, M.L.A., A. E. Budd
and J. K. Williams. The electoral council
looked them over and said they were all
decent fellows and it didn’t believe in pre-
selection anyway, so all three will stand
with its blessing. This is the spirit that
wins elections.
Spencer-street Bx-idge, Melbourne, will be
built, after a wait of 60 years, if Vic. Parlia-
ment accepts the enabling bill which the
Hogan team has submitted to it. Cutting
the Mcßeath Board’s estimate to £350,000,
the Ministry proposes to debit the 26 metro-
politan municipalities with £200,000, the
cost of the structure and approaches; the
other £150,000, to he found by the Railways,
the Tram Board and the Government, in
equal shares, is to go to the Harbor Trust
as compensation for the loss of wharfage.
Of course the municipalities want to dodge
payment, but the clause fixing their contribu-
tions (which may extend over half a century,
with interest and sinking fund) is man-
datory. The bill will go through.
As a pre-election measui’e N. R. Wales civil
servants have been granted the five-day week,
and the Government offices in Sydney were
closed on Saturday and Monday, Monday
being a bank holiday. The beneficiaries
already get three weeks’ annual leave (on
full pay, of course), six months’ “long” leave
after 15 years’ service and all public and
bank holidays, with sick leave, where neces-
sary. Hundreds of thoughtful civil servants
didn’t want the idle Saturday and said so;
but they were overborne. The innovation
coincided with the news that Australia’s
greatest copper-mine was closing down, and
that imports exceeeded exports by £31,680,000
last year.
The flight of Chinaman Chen and the
Bolsheviks Borodin and Galens and the rapid
dissolution of their diseased Hankow Gov-
ernment recall the flight of Bela Kuhn and
his pals from Budapest. When Roumanian
interference loomed on the horizon, Bela and
Co. kept a special train ready, and at the
crisis they all crowded into it but one, and
found shelter in Germany. The exception
was Szamuelly, who was away torturing
people, and who wasn’t even informed about
the crisis and the train. He was disliked for
many reasons, including his insistence that
the Red troops should enjoy a three days'
sack of Budapest, and when he learned that
he was deserted he naturally ran for his
life. Legend has it that lie had one leg over
the frontier when a clutching hand dragged
him back. The crowd did the rest.
After a mighty storm of recriminations
and explanations, the Maoriland Dairy Con-
trol Board has decided that it isn’t either
expedient or profitable to tell Tooley-street
what price it must pay for butter. The
price-fixing resolution has been rescinded; the
London agency it not to be re-constituted,
and the appointment of a new London man-
ager has been held over. Resignations from
the M.L. and London boards have simplified
the position considerably.
Debates in Melbourne’s Spring-street talk-
foundry have seldom been largely attended,
whether State or Federal Parliaments were
in session. If a proposition put forward
by Chief, Sec. Prendergast is accepted they
are likely to be even more neglected in
future. Prendy proposes installing micro-
phones and amplifiers in the rooms occupied
by Ministers, leading officials and the press.
The Speaker will then function as a sort
of broadcasting announcer and the Chamber
will be the studio which members will only
enter when they have something to say. To
give the proceedings an air of reality an
automatic heckler should be added. A gramo-
phone arranged to remark “Shuddup
andgotoblitheringblazes” at frequent intervals
would do.
According to Dr. Sawayanagi, a delegate
to the Institute of Pacific Relations at Hono-
lulu, Japan can solve its population problem
only through the tolerance and co-operation
of the other nations bordeidng the Pacific.
Statistics show that there are 1,160,000
Japanese living outside the Japanese Empire
and 28.280 foreigners living inside it.
Although Britain has as big a population
problem as Japan, only 1061 Britishers have
slopped over into the Mikado’s land. There
is plenty of tolerance and co-operation
already, but it is all on the one side.
“lan C.”: Melbourne does not really be-
grudge Sydney the international exhibition
which Priminister Bruce proposes should be
held there in 1931. Much as the Vic. capi-
tal may like displays of Australian manu-
factures, it shivers at international shows.
It has not forgotten the loss of £250.000
(£220,000 greater than Alfred Deakin's
estimate) on the last international affair
held in 18S8.
THE ROAD TO MOSCOW.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“Mr. Lang stated that the secession of Mr. Minahan
from the Labor party would cause neither tears nor
surprise. He recalled the familiar saying, ‘The
dogs may bark, but the caravan goes on.’ ”
On with the caravan ! Disgruntled curs
May bark their disapproval till they drop.
Their clamor won’t perturb our passengers;
When we get fairly going, nought will stop
Our course, from agitated terriers
To a gesticulating traffic cop.
However villainous the roads or weather
We’ll whirl to our objective, hell-for-leather.
On with the char-h-banc, drag, chariot, sled
(Call the darned thing whatever you’re in-
clined) !
Those who dislike it now ’tis painted red,
As they aver, are free to stay behind.
Pity that critics should be so misled
Or biased—or absurdly color-blind.
’Tis they, footslogging it, who’ll soon be
sorry,
Not we who’re safe aboard. On with the
lorry!
On with the tumbril, van, pantechnicon !
’Tis filling fast—no earthly need to tout.
If chaps like Mutch or Dunn would clamber
on,
Or any others who were emptied out
For insubordination months agone.
Repulse them not. They’ve had beyond a
doubt
Their lesson, and they’re sadder now, you bet,
And wiser, too. On with the waggonette !
On with the- Labor coach! Secure we feel.
No qualm our smug complacency impairs,
Not though our lights should presently reveal
A road ahead that’s full of ruts and snares,
With Lang the masterful to grip the wheel
And Jock and Willis to collect the fares.
On with the ’bus, the jaunting car, the
drosky!
Yes, that’s the aptest. Any more for Mosey!
N.S.W.
T. THE R.


The best cigarettes
for years
at
lOfle
SnJTE ©PRESS
ĥ
ARDATH TOBACCO CO: LTD: LONDON
SOCIETU
"and it's
printed with
WIMBLE'S INKS"
“Harry J.”: One night at the camp-fire a
youngster just back from a trip to Sydney
gave us a vivid picture of coursing with
electric hares. Old Bill, who has to main-
tain his prestige as a yarn-spinner, w r aited
until questions and comments had fizzled out,
then put in his oar. “I seen that game
played in Holland 40 years ago,” he declared,
"only over there they’re not bloated with loan
money like us and they run things more
economical-like. They used ter have electric
pieces o’ cheese with rats chasin’ ’em."
* * * *
"Stellsby”: It wasn’t only in Scotland
that the stranger who bade a local inhabi-
tant “Good day” on the Sabbath invited a
rebuke a generation ago (B. 21/7/27). I
was reared in a similar atmosphere here in
Australia. Being of Scotch
parentage (both ways) and
the youngest, I had to clean
the family’s Sunday boots on
Saturday, chop and lay in
the Sunday fuel on the same
day and “whustled” at my
peril on the Sabbath. The
Holy Morn saw me at
church, the afternoon at
.'Sunday-school or Bible class
and the evening at church
again. All secular reading
was taboo, and after supper
a chapter from the Book
wound up the “day of rest.”
My youthful opinion was
that it was a day of flaming
hard toil.
K- * *
“Crojaek” : One almost un-
noted aspect of the native
trouble in Samoa is the
smouldering belief among the
brown people of the Pacific
Islands that some day men
of their color will become the
rulers of the lands in and
about that ocean. Nowhere
is this traditio n more
strongly held than among the
Maor i s, whose “prophet”
Ratana visited Japan partly
to discover if any informa-
tion on the subject was avail-
able in that country. A pro-
minent business man in
Sydney told me that he visi-
ted Samoa during the
Russian - Japanese war, and
was present at a great gath-
ering of chiefs at Apia. The
first thing they wanted to
know concerning the outside
world was how the war was
going. When they were told
the Japanese were winning
there was much excitement
and cheering, many openly expressing their
hope that the era of the brown man in the
Pacific was about to begin.
* *
“P.T.H.”: A false alarm of fire doesn't
always involve malice prepense. A work-
man at Christchurch (M.L.),
while operating on the road-
side with a pick, dislodged a
stone which flew up and;
striking the glass on a near-
by alarm-box, set the mech-
anism working. Two engines
arrived on the scene five
minutes later and found no-
body more puzzled by their
apppearance than the man
who had sent the call.
* * *
“Malakuna”: I never
heard of the belief which
“4X2” declares was widely
prevalent in France, that an
officer captured by Fritz with
an automatic in liis posses-
sion risked something worse
than imprisonment (B.
21/7/’27). I was one of
about a dozen officers cap-
tured at Bullecourt in 1917,
and in our possession there
were at least a half - dozen
automatics of various sizes—
empty, of course, or we
might have avoided a couple
of years of Hun hospitality.
I found my captors much
more interested in my papers,
wallet and light-tan puttees
—all of which they promptly
annexed than in my arm-
ory. When the more syste-
matic official searchers came
upon the brand - new little
automatic that I had spent
so much of my f u r loug li
money on, they showed no
interest in it after satisfy-
ing themselves that it was
not loaded.
“Dr. Nil”: Strange meetings? Many years
ago my old friend A. J. Park —formerly
chairman of the Hay (N.S.AAL) Land Board
—told me that once when he was travelling
to Grafton, as one of the only two passengers
on a small coasting steamer, he and the
skipper were at a meal in the saloon, the
other passenger not having yet emerged from
liis cabin. The captain addressed my friend
by his name, and at that the stranger’s berth-
door opened sufficiently to allow of the pro-
trusion of an ancient and completely bald
head, two piercing eyes, an eagle nose and
a long white beard. After a protracted stare
at his fellow passenger the apparition boomed
out —“Parrk? Did he say yer name was
Parrk?” —and upon being answered in the
affirmative, continued: "Ah’ve seen yer
grrandfayther tak up a barr’l o’ beer an’
drrink oot o’ the bung hole!” AA'ith that the
head withdrew and the door banged. Aly
friend —who was indeed a grandson of Mungo
Park—had never seen this deponent to bis
THE PROOF OF THE PUDDING.
BETSY: “But, darling, before you married him you used to say there wasn’t another
man in the world like him.”
PETSY: “I did, dear; and now I should hate to think there was."
forebear’s prowess before, nor did he ever see
him again.
* * * *
“Mako” : The Maoriland joy-rider is not
fussy as to the style or appearance of the
vehicle he commandeers. The other day a
police officer drove the Auckland Black Maria
to a suburban station to pick up a passenger,
and found to his amazement on coming out
of the station that the historic coach had dis-
appeared. Thrusting his charge into a common
taxi, he hastened home to report the loss,
and for hours afterwards all the police in the
district were craning their necks to spot
Maria going past. But the joy-riders evi-
dently kept to back lanes and country
roads, and there was no trace of the dark
lady at midnight. Next morning she was
discovered parked quite near the Mt. Eden
gaol, standing slightly a-tilt and wearing the
rakish air common to those who don’t come
home till morning. The. mileage ticked up
by her speedometer indicated a boisterous
night, but where Maria went and who were
the passengers remains a dark secret.
“777”: There is plenty of written testi-
mony available about the bathing habits (or
lack,of such) among Ivan and his woman-
kind’ (8.14/7/’27). In “Held by the Bol-
sheviks,” by Major Vining, a Tommy engi-
neer officer who was giving the Whites a
hand against the Reds in 1919-20, I find the
following: “Chiliabinsk, Liberia. —AA r ent
down to the big lake for a bathe. Many
people bathing. No bathing costume is used
in Siberia and parts of Russia. People of
both sexes bathe alongside each other and
no one wears a costume. If a costume is
worn it attracts attention, whereas without
a costume one is one of a crowd and treated
accordingly. After one has got accustomed
to seeing people Stroilling to and from the
water in the nude the shock soon wears off
and no further thought is given to the sub-
ject.”
* * * *
“Caveman”: The tattooing vogue (B.
14/7/27) began when sailors brought home
the mystic decorations from Japan, Maori-
land and various islands; now that sailing-
ships are nearly extinct the art is dropping
into oblivion. There used to be many little
dens in side streets near the water-front
where an artist would supply any design
from thousands exhibited on walls; to-day
I don’t know more than three regular prac-
titioners in Sydney, and two of them are
quite handy to The Bulletin’s own home.
Usually the operator is a mass of designs
himself, and sometimes his wife helps him and
is equally patterned. A very old shellback
whom I knew had a beautiful peacock on
one thigh, a fierce-looking tiger on the other
and a large dragon round his body, all in
colors, decorations acquired in Japan in his
early youth. Some tattoo artists, such as
Burchett, of AVaterloo-road, London, and
lVnn and Swift, of Sydney, could do very
fine work in six colors. Prices run from a
dollar for a butterfly to three or four pounds
for complicated work.
* * * *
“Malakuna” : In the Tasman Islands, east
of the German Solomons, it is not the youths
who are artistically tattooed as in Samoa (B.
21/7/27), but the young women, prior to
making their debut in the marriage market.
The process of adornment is laborious and
painful. Into a piece of split bamboo is
fastened a very sharp shark’s tooth, and after
the belle has been painted from knees to
hips with a black native mixture the imple-
ment is hammered into the flesh, and the
black paint goes with it to stay there. The
process continues until a few square inches
of skin have been decorated with the desired
pattern. The damsel is then ready for the
coming-out ceremony, at which the artist’s
work must not be obscured by any “tappa”
or other form of covering. To see the eli-
gible bachelors examining the decorative
scheme on the young debutantes is an experi-
ence worth having once.
* * * * ■
“Nikko”: A particularly cool young des-
perado came into the limelight of the police
court at New Brighton, near Christchurch
(M.L.), the other day. The lad, still in liis
early ’teens, hid in the scrub after removing
liis hat and coat. Presently a victim ap-
proached ; out he dashed, seized her hand-
bag and disappeared into the scrub again
with professional speed. There he removed
a purse containing 155., threw the bag away,
donned his coat and hat and joined a group
farther along the road who were listening
to the woman’s story and condoling with her
Sympathetically the juvenile robber asked
how much the purse contained, and on hear-
ing that there were 11 £1 notes tucked away
in a packet, left hurriedly in ostensible pur-
suit of the evil-doer. Having retrieved the
bag from the scrub lie verified the tale of the
notes, removed them, and buried the bag.
When another crime landed him in the police
station he supplied the details of the bag
episode with proper appreciation of liis own
cleverness. A magistrate isolated him in
gaol to await trial at the Children’s Court.
LIFE AND DAYS.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“Remember that there were no weeks —and conse-
quently no week-ends —in Arcadia.” —Melbourne daily.
Alonday is of days the worst,
All poor humans know it;
Each on wa king feels accurst,
Pauper, prince or poet.
Conscience or necessity
Back to work drives you and me.
Tuesday isn't quite so bad.
Quickening brain and muscle
Leave no leisure to be sad
In (he healthy bustle;
Teaching us (no use to shirk)
Fate sends blacker things than work.
Wednesday rather likes himself,
Getting in his stride,
Pities fossils on the shelf,
Feels a healthy pride
And a pleasurable throb
As he hammers at his job.
Thursday’s middle-aged and fat.
Just a little jaded.
Bread is stale and beer is flat.
Every color’s faded ;
Quite a chorus of heigh-hoing
That the week’s so slow in going.
Friday—ah. the end's in sight
( Incident’ly. pay day) !
Boredom feels the sun break bright,
Closer looms the play day.
For to-morrow’s revels rare
Strop the razor, clip the hair!
Saturday—and work is short,
A'ou shall clamber soon
Into gladdest rags for sport
In the afternoon.
Saturday’s a full-of-fun day
Warming up t 0.... Kissing Sunday.
In the gardens, on the beach.
Sunday’s rays discover
Every lad has found his peach.
Every lass her lover.
Life seems not so dark a muddle
When at twilight sweethearts cuddle.
AS IT IS IN 1027.
REGGIE: “Frightfully pathetic case —father drowned
himself: one child half-witted; another tuber-
culous” —
GWLADYS: "Oh, do let's get up a supper dance for the
poor things!”
How could Cupid go liis ways
Little flamelets fanning
With no Sun- or Satur-days?
Didn't it spoil liis planning
For direct or for oblique ends
AVhen there were no weeks nor week-ends?
victoria.
RIKKI T.


“Due de Borax": Another Queensland
flier with an unofficial and pleasantly de-
scriptive name (B. 21/7/’27) is the '“Boll
Worm Express,” plying between Kahnes and
Thangool, Upper Burnett. “Sweeper,” by
the way, although originally slang, has been
adopted as an official term and occurs fre-
quently on the time-tables.
* * sis *
“C.Q.”: Australia’s old friend the man
who is walking round the world is with us
again. The war and passport restrictions,
revolutions, bandits and disturbed conditions
generally interrupted the procession of these
tourists, just as the break up of the Mongol
empire blocked the missionary friars in the
twelfth century. Now it has begun again
with the ari-ival of a young Latvian doctor,
who does his walking on a bicycle, hotly
followed by a German actor and poet, who
lias dedicated himself to the task of propa-
gating Esperanto. The fraud about most of
these pedestrians is the amount of water
they encounter on the route, which compels
them to do most of their walking on the decks
of ocean liners. Of course, they could
arrange their itinerary so as to be on dry-
land nearly all the way, but that would
take them through bleak, inhospitable regions
where there are no gullible newspapers to
record their doings.
* * * *
“Vosadina”: “Malalo” is quite right in
crediting Papuan women with an extensive
knowledge of methods of contraception (B.
28/7/’27). It is customary for them to pro-
duce sterility after the birth of the second
or third child; it may even be after the birth
of the first. A concoction of banana, ashes
and salt water, taken a few days after the
birth of the child, is one of their specifics.
When twins occur one of them is killed to
save the mother from the shame of the native
explanation that there must have been two
fathers. If there are more male than female
children in the village, the male is killed, and
vice versa. Missions come in for much criti-
cism, but figures show that native women
who have embraced Christianity bear more
children than their sisters.
* * * *
“Ess” : One of the most curious monuments
I ever saw in the bush was a green tree-
stump near Frogmore (N.S.W.), on which
one George Baker, who lived in a hut hard
by, had carved his portrait and the usual
tombstone particulars. Later he marked out
his own grave, and left instructions that he
was to be buried there, according to specifi-
cations, when time came. Finally, being a
solitary with plenty of spare time on his hands,
he got to work on his own coffin. He used to
say in explanation of his curious hobby that
he didn’t want to be forgotten, or lost in a
cemetery. That was some years ago; but
I never heard how George finished, or if he
was planted in his chosen claim.
“Uramao” : X-ray photos, it has been de-
monstrated in Maoriland, are far from being
as infallible as the lay public has been told
they are. At an inquest on a woman in Christ-
church it was shown that she had been dis-
charged from the hospital after an X-ray
photo had been taken of her head to deter-
mine whether her skull was fractured, the
result being negative. Subsequently she was
readmitted to the hospital and died ; it was
then found that there was a fracture of the
skull three inches long. At Dunedin two
footballers had a head-on collision, and as a
result both were admitted to the hospital.
One had his head X-rayed, but no fracture
was disclosed. The man was discharged and
played in matches on the two following Satur-
days. _ Then his head was photoed again,
when it was found he had a fractured skull.
* * * *
“sth Q. 1.8.” : The postal authorities have
been putting on airs because of the safe
delivery of two cocoanuts in the husk to Mel
bourne residents. The things were “posted’
in Samoa, with the addresses pasted on them
Which reminds me that during the Boei
War it was a common thing for the army
biscuit of that era to be stamped and ad-
dressed as a postcard, and forwarded to
admiring liome-dwellers. It invariably came
to hand, the biscuit of the Old Contemptibles
being a sturdy thing. But when, in the
Great War, the same jape was attempted
with the modern biscuit—an effete produc-
tion which I have seen crumble at a blow
of a farrier s hammer —the experiment was
generally a failure.
* ❖ * ;j ;
Bouragi”: Few people have so much rea-
son to appreciate wireless and kindred inven-
tions as the white officials in isolated dis-
tricts of Papua. Nearly every out-station in
that wild country has its radio set nowadays
and ean listen to the very far-away world of
civilisation in the evenings. It is a> change
from the times when even the “overland
mail” which crosses the low ridge of 7000
feet or so between Port Moresby and the
Northern District, in charge of two native
policemen, had not been instituted. Sea
transport up and down the n.-o. coast avis
Aery fragmentary and casual in those days,
and a two months’ wait for a mail or outside
news was a trifle. It took exactly that time
for the news of the suicide of a Papuan
Acting-Governor to get round from “Port"
to Tamata, on tlie Gira goldfield, though the
distance over the “rise” before mentioned is
inside 150 miles and round the coast it is
under 500. Still, there is one drawback in
these _ new inventions. The bureaucrats at
‘Port” can now bung in their "Please ex-
plains” and get an answer in a few hours.
Once upon a time the same process some-
times took a few months.
* * * *
‘Spokeshave”: What presses most hardly
on the young Australian artist is not so
much the reluctance of patrons as the high
cost of frames. At a low estimate, the up-
and-coming painter has to pay £SO to put the
wood around an average show. If lie sells
£oo worth of pictures he is lucky, and most
of the gilded timber remains on his hands.
The artists should form a frame club. A
small contribution from each member would
provide a fund to purchase frames, and these
could be let out to each aspirant at a
moderate rental, any sold to be replaced.
Some of the artists who now get more for a
single picture than they got for a whole exhi-
bition in their struggling days might start
the thing.
* * * *
“Larrapinta”: Of the ancient windjam-
mers that raced round the Horn this year
with Australian wheat (B. 28/7/’27) the
five-masted Danish barque Kobenhavn had
perhaps the roughest spin. Hardly had she
left the Semaphore anchorage on the home-
ward run when, she ran into some floating
wreckage and her “feathering” propeller,
newiy repaired at Port Adelaide, was torn
NO GOOD FOR THE CAUSE.
“Australia, with a population of 6,000,000 in 1926, drank 1,000,000 fewer gallons
of grog than a population of 5,000,000 did in 1914. At this rate the Prohibition cause
seems doomed to die of inanition.”
MOTHER PROHIB.: “Drunk again! You selfish beast!”
AUSTRALIA: “No, soberer than ever.”
MOTHER PROHIB.: “Oh, sober are you? Then you’re an inconsiderate beast.”
completely off. Two days later the fourth
officer went over the side to put an extra
lashing on the port anchor, without tying a
lifeline around his waist. Pie was washed
off by a heavy sea, and the ships’ boats
searched for him in vain until darkness set
in. The Kobenhavn took 42 days to reach
the Horn, running through heavy storms all
the way. One day three of the apprentices
were washed off the jib-boom by a sea that
came green over the bows; when the ship
rose from . under it they were found, half-
drowned but otherwise uninjured, in the
netting under the bowsprit. Later on the
ship was becalmed in the doldrums for a
fortnight. She took 110 days to reach Fal-
mouth, “spoke” only one steamer, a French
one, on the voyage, and for two months
didn’t sight either smoke or sail.
* * * *
“Tiffy”: One of the first things that
strikes the visitor to Broome (W.A.) is
the number of buildings that are secured
by old anchor chains; after passing over
the roofs these are fastened at each end to
old anchors embedded in the ground. Many
years ago a pearler, whose house had been
blown away by a willy-willy, decided to
make use of sortie of the anchors and chains,
discarded from the luggers, which lay rust-
ing on the. foreshore. At first he received
a lot of ridicule, but it was not long before
others realised the soundness of his idea
and followed his example. To-day the
anchored house is quite a common sight.
* v * *
“Windsor”: Quite a new one was put
over the Geelong (Vic.) Bench last week
when a man was charged with having been
on licensed premises after 6 p.m. on Satur-
day. His defence was that he had been
waiting to hear the final football results
wirelessed from the city. The prosecuting
cop pointed out that Billy Bunny told bed-
time stories between 5.30 and 6.30 p.m.,
and suggested heavily that the defendant
would not have beeri deeply interested in
that part of the programme. A lenient
beak, however, rewarded the accused for his
originality by giving him the benefit of the
doubt.
Jfc & *
“Kayeff”: I saw several airmen come to
spectacular finishes, only one of which was
due to stunting. This was when five army
’planes were flying over the sea near Nieue-
port, on the Belgian coast, and diving in
formation as close to the surface of the
water as possible. Eventually one cut it too
fine, his landing wheels just catching the
tip of a wave. The ’plane somersaulted,
and both pilot and observer, handicapped by
their clothing, were drowned before a racing
motor-launch could reach them. On another
occasion two machines of a flight, crossing
the line near Le Verguier on a cloudy day,
with a gale blowing, emerged from the mist
of a cloud and locked wings before their
pilots had a chance to swerve, the entangled
machines whirling down in a sickening
spiral. Equally sudden was the fate of the
pilot of an artillery machine, who was flying
low to get in a few shots from his machine-
gun during a stunt. A German shell, land-
ing amongst the Yanks below, caught him
in its upward blast, the rush of gas tossing
the ’plane up and over as if it had been a
toy. But the stiffest luck in all my recol-
lection befell a Fritz who was flying about
3000 feet above Stcenwerck. An anti-air-
craft shell, landing fair on the engine,
clipped that useful adjunct out of his bus,
and left him driving the remnants, the only
occasion I know of where an anti, scored a
direct hit on a ’plane.
* * * *
“Kayeff” : Sailormen have their own nick-
names for the various shipping lines. One
line, which used to sport a white swan on
its _ house-flag and was noted for the poor
rations supplied, was invariably known as
the Hungry Goose.
* * * *
“Mugwumps”: In a Brisbane police-court
the other day the defendant in a two-up
case was giving his evidence, and under cross-
examination by the prosecuting officer blush
inglv admitted that he had done no real
work for the past two years. Quoth the
defendant’s man of law in a very audible
aside from the solicitor’s table: “He toils
not—neither does he spin.”
“C.Q.”: The world’s most persistent ’bus
proprietor owns an unauthorised line of pet-
rol chariots that toot their way through the
most congested parts of Richmond (Vic.).
Ilis special distinction is derived from having
been prosecuted 76 times.
* * * *
“Lily Beale’’: Our colored brother is mov-
ing with the times in the matter of trans-
port. In our small township five abo. bunny-
catchers are the possessors of second-hand
lizzies, while an Assyrian storekeeper and an
Afghan hawker do their business per motor-
lorry. Even Lee Gow, a local Chinese gar-
dener, has forsaken the reins for the wheel,
though he has been unable to abandon his
old habit of adjuring his motive power to
"giddap” or “whoa,” as the case may be.
$ $ $ *
“M.G.S.”: I agree with “Peter Paul” (B.
21/7/’27) that George Lambert’s figure of
youth in the Geelong Grammar School
memorial is far from lifeless, but if he is
supposed to be destroying Prussian militarism
typified by the eagle rampant, he is doing it
in the leisurely manner of an elderly officer
dug in far from the firing-line. If this is
"still technique” it doesn’t express what is
intended. When the Greeks made a winged
Victory she was certainly mafficking; and, to
take a modern example, Rodm did not
abandon movemeut until he reached the even-
ing of his dpys and perpetrated “The Bur-
ghers of Calais.”
* * * *
“Miro”: One' of the first things that
strike the visitor to Auckland is the old
windmill which rises from the hill above
the city, with its huge arms outspread to the
sky. To-day it claims to be the only wind-
driven flour-mill in Australia or Maoriland,
and is still in possession of the family of the
original builder. It ground all the flour for
milling. Built from clay bricks made on the
spot, the old mill ground all the flour for
the troops during the Maori war. The diffi-
culty nowadays is to get the pitch pine for
the repair of the arms, and as sail-making
for windmills is a lost art locally, the owners
themselves have to tackle the job. But in the
days when wartime made fuel prices almost
prohibitive, the old jigger fully justified its
retention, and as wind is always plentiful in
Auckand, it usually worked full time.
* * * *
“Nakhoda”: There is bad news for lovers
in the report of a committee of experts
which has been examining the tea-tree round
the shores of Port Phillip. The experts found
new r seedlings only where the scrub had been
enclosed. Elsewhere the screen of happy
couples is reeling before the attacks of leaf
miner-fly, sooty fungus, borer, witch’s broom,
gall, scale, wattle goat moth and murderous
picknickers who disturb the soil. The extra-
ordinary variety of insect pests is explained
by the theory that motor cars on the beach
road have put up a barrage of smell and
noise between the interior and the trees that
few birds have the courage to face. The
verdict is that the long ribbon of curious
herbage will have vanished like June frosts
within a very few years.
* * * *
“Glen A.”: Of all the volumes housed
at Sydney Public Library none approaches
in value the precious First Folio of Shak-
speare, which is worth anything up to
£lO,OOO. There is a tradition that Melbourne
might have had it if it had only known
how to entertain angels unawares. Back
in the ’eighties, Sir Richard Tangye, of
Birmingham, w r alked into the Melbourne Pub-
lic Library, and courteously asked to be
shown round. The librarian was busy; he
rang a bell, and handed the visitor over to a
subordinate a little brusquely. A week or
two later Tangye came to Sidney, where
he found a librarian who went out of his
way to show him everything worth seeing
in the institution. Some months later, Tan-
gye purchased the copy of Shakspeare and
presented it to the Sydney Public Library.
* * * *
“Native Fauna” : A friend of mine owns a
poultry store near the Western Market in
Flinders-lane, Melbourne, the stronghold of
softsgoodsmen. A country storekeeper pur-
chased a baker’s dozen of ferrets from some
rabbiters who had thrown up their job, and
sent them to my friend the poultry vendor
to be disposed of. They arrived by the last
train at Spencer-street, and were duly col-
lected by the caretaker of the poultry store,
who warehoused them in a cage near the
poultry which he was to take to Victoria
Market at 3 a.m. During the night the new
arrivals broke out and started prospecting on
their own account. The caretaker, arriving
at 2.45 a.m., was horrified to find 200 head
of saleable poultry dead, and six thoroughly
replete ferrets sunk in peaceful slumber. Not
knowing what further depredations mightn’t
be wrought by the missing killei’s he promptly
broke a fire-brigade glass and got the fire-
men to help him hunt for the escapees-
surely the queerest duty for which fire-
fighters have ever been requisitioned. All
search has so far proved vain, and the odds
are that some country storekeeper will find
a ferret or two in a bale of blankets or a
roll of tweeds from Flinders-lane during the
next week or two.
*!• H* V
A SAILOR BOLD.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Oh, twice a day I’m a sailor bold,
Afloat on the mighty deep,
And I ride the billows, crested white,
And laugh at their angry sweep.
I walk ashore with a rolling gait,
t»ut, as soon as I leave the Ouay,
A tame little chap nips into a tram;
And it’s hard to believe it’s me.
All day long to a desk I’m tied
To slave as a wage-plug must.
1 leave the sun and the good clean sjiray
For the city’s grime and dust.
Hut, at five o’clock, when the whistle blows,
1 head where my craft is moored,
And ever I hum a chanty brave
As I climb with a lurch aboard
It's “Yo-heave-ho, an’ a bottle o’ rum!”
Or, “Hey for the bounding main !”
The city is slipping far astern
And I’m out on the wave again.
We meet in the fairway a deep-sea roll,
That tells me I’m well afloat;
So twice a day I’m a sailor bold,
Aboard o’ the Manly boat.
N.S.W.
V. J. MAZZAROL.
GOLDEN RAIN.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
It’s golden rain !
And the almond-tree
Holds up her head
So daintily.
She fluffs herself out.
And preens again
Like a milk-white hen.
Oh ! it’s golden rain !
It’s wonderful!
For the sun’s red gold,
And the sea’s a flame
Itare to behold.
From the orange-tree
Your hands may pull
A golden store.
Oh ! it’s wonderful!
It’s golden rain
Like a fairy shower,
Or Dana S’s hoard
In her fortress tower.
The tired earth stirs
And is young again
With a lover’s youth—
Oh, it’s golden rain !
VICTORIA.
HELEN E. WALLACE.


The Australian BanK of Commerce
TWENTY-SEVENTH REPORT
Of the Directors, presented at the Annual General Meeting, held at the Banking House, Sydney, on Tuesday,
26th
Limited
July, 1927, at noon.
1. We submit the Accounts for the Year ended 30th June, 1027, which have been
examined and certified to by the Auditors, and show the following results:
The Balance of Profit and Loss for the year, after
making full provision for all Bad and Doubtful
Debts, deducting Rebate on Current Bills, and _
Expenses of Management, Directors’ and Auditors’
Fees, Interest on Fixed Deposits, Rates, etc.,
amounts to .. .. •• •• . .£2J7,286 4 11
Less Graduated Land and Income Taxes for the Year 54,180 0 0.
—— 4 11
Interest paid on Inscribed Deposits .. • ■ • • • • 5,038 10 0
From this amount the following
appropriations have been made :
Transfer to Reserve Fund..
Transfer in reduction of
Bank Premises Account. .
Interim Half-yearly Dividend at
the rate of 8 per cent, per
annum was paid in January
last, absorbing
and a final Half-yearly Divi-
dend at the rate of S per cent,
per annum is now recommended,
amounting to
Profit for the Year.. .. £218,007 5
£50,000 0 0
10,000 0 0
£60,000 0 0
£73,600 0 0
84.226 11 7
157,826 11 7
217.826 11
<>
Balance
Brought forward from last Year . . . • • • £55,303 2 3
Out of which the following appropriation has been made—
Transfer to Reserve Fund . . .. • • £28,880 5 0
240 13 7
26,422 17 3
Leaving to be carried forward . . £26,663 10 10
2. During the year Branches of the Bank were opened at 88 Hunter Street, Sydney,
and at Marrackville in the Sydney Metropolitan Area. Blacktown and Merriwagga
Receiving Offices were converted into Branches, and Receiving. Offices were opened at
Oollaroy, Goolgowi, Marulan, Riverstone and TJlong. The Receiving Offices at Erskme-
ville, Merrygoen and South Randwick have been withdrawn.
3. It was decided to pay off the balance of the Inscribed Deposits on 31st March last.
4. The nominal Capital of the Bank was increased at the last Annual General Meet-
ing to £5,000,000.: and in December last an offer was made to the shareholders of 368,000
new shares-of £1 each, at a premium of 7s. 6d. each —in the proportion of one new share
for every five shares held. The whole of these shares were taken up, and on oOtli
June 312 967 shares had been paid up in full; the amounts outstanding on the remaining
shares being £13,760 30s. Od. on Capital Account and £6,880 ss. Od. on Premium Account.
As the final instalments were made payable on the Ist July, 1927, all shares will rank
alike for future dividends.
5. The Reserve Fund, which on 30th June, 1926, stood at ..
has been increased as follows :
Appropriation from the profits of the year ended 30th June, 1927,
as shown above . .
Appropriation from the amount brought forward from the pre-
vious year, as shown above . . .. _ . . . •
Premiums received on the new shares up to 30tli June, 1927 ..
£790,000 0 0
50,000 0 0
28,880 5 0
131,119 15 0
Thus raising the Reserve Fund to .. .. ~£1,000,000 0 0
6. James Kell, having been appointed a Director during the year to fill the casual
vacancy occasioned by Duncan Carson’s absence abroad, retires in accordance with
Article 109 of the Articles of Association, but is eligible for re-election and offers him-
self accordingly. Frank N. Yarwood and T. L. F. Rutledge also retire in terms of
Article 104; both are eligible and offer themselves for re-election.
7. In terms of Article 171 of the Articles of Association, it is necessary to elect
two Auditors in the places of William Craig, F.C.P.A., and Milton F. Johnson,
F C.P A., who retire in accordance with the Articles. The latter is eligible and otters
himself for re-election, and William H. Perry, F.C.P.A., has given notice that he is
a candidate for election in place of William Craig.
Sydney, 19th July, 1927. MARK SHELDON,
Chairman.
BALANCE SHEET.
Dr
( Including
f oiidon Odioi'—by CnbloQ ■
30th JUNE. 1927.
Cu.
LIABILITIES.
Authorised capital
Subscribed capital
To Capital paid-up
„ Reserve Fund
„ Customers’ Deposits and other Liabilities
„ Government Deposits
Balances due to other Banks
Profit and Loss Account: —
Balance
For Dividend .. . . £84,226 11
To increase amount carried
forward ~ .. .. 240 13
Brought forward from 30th
June, 1926 .. • • £55,303 2
Less Transfer to Re-
serve Fund ~ . . £28,880 5
‘84,467 5 2
26,422 17 3
£3,194,239 10 0
15,061,167 12 9
110.890 2 5
£18.308.297 5 2
Contingent Liabilities, consisting of Letters of Credit, etc., for which customers are
responsible to the Bank, £980,436 13s. 10d, ?
ASSETS.
By Coin and Bullion . . . . .. • • • • £801,194 1 9
„ Australian Notes and Cash with Commonwealth Bank 1,404,784 0 0
„ Cash at London Bankers and at short call in London 849,542 0 1
„ British Treasury Bills and other Government and
Municipal Securities .. . . .. • • i 2
„ Balances due by other Banks.. •• •• •• 474,382 13 8
„ Bills Receivable and Remittances in Transit . . 3,090,712 2 0
„ Bills 1 Oscounted, Loans, Advances, all other Debts due to the Bank
and other Assets ... .. •• •• • • • •
„ Bank Premises .. .. .. • • • • • • 16 3
Less appropriation from Profits .. .. 10,000 0 0
£6,537,933 10 0
11,463,056 18 11
365,306 16 3
£18,366,297 5 2
Dr,
PROFIT AND LOSS ACCOUNT.
Cr.
To Transfer to Reserve Fund (now £1,000,000) . . £50.000 0 0
Transfer in reduction of Bank Premises Account . . 10,000 0 0
±60,000 0 0
„ Interim Half-yearlv Dividend paid . . .. .. £73.600 0 0
„ Final Half-yearly Dividend recommended .. . . 84.226 11 7
——£ls i ,826 11 7
217,826 11 7
240 13 7
£218,067 5 2
Balance to be carried down
By Profit for the year ended 30tli June, 1027 .. ..£277,286 411
Less Graduated Land and Income Taxes .. . . 54,180 0 0
£223,106 4 11
From which deduct Interest paid on Inscribed Deposits .. .. 5,038 19 9
By Nei! Profit for the Year ..
By Balance to be brought down —after payment of Dividend
£84.226 11s. 7d. recommended ..
„ Balance brought forward from last year
Less Transfer to Reserve Fund
£55.303 2
To be carried forward
. , £26,663 10 10
MARK SHELDON, Chairman.
C. M. C. SHANNON, General Manager.
WILLIAM CRAIG. I
MILTON F. JOHNSON, 5
Auditors, Fellows of the Australasian Corporation of Public Accountants.
The Annual General Meeting of the Shareholders of The Australian Bank of Commerce, Limited,
was held to-dav, Tuesdav, 26th July, 1927, at the Banking House, King and George Streets, Sydney, Sir
Mark Sheldon/ K.8.E., 'Chairman of Directors, presiding.
In moving the adoption of the Report and Balance Sheet, the Chairman said:—
Ladies and Gentlemen,
You will find in the Balance Sheet we are placing before you to-day alterations m various directions.
At the same time, you will see from the figures presented to you that during this year further progress
Amongst the more important features are the increase in the Paid-up Capital to £2,194,000, and
in the Reserve Fund to £1,000,000, the latter figure having been reached in the manner shown in
paragraph 5 of the report, namely: bv the appropriation of £50,000 from the Profits of the year, of
£25=880 ss. from the accumulated balance of Profits previously brought forward, and by Premiums
£131,119 15s. received up to 30th June on New Shares issued under the conditions mentioned in the
I take this opportunity of congratulating the shareholders upon the substantial amount to which
the Reserve Fund has now attained—the whole of this amount having been accumulated during a period
° f 8 The complete 8 " result is that during the year the Capital has been increased by over £354,000,
and the Reserve Fund by £210,000; while there is still to be received a further amount of over £13,000
of Capital, and over £6OOO of Premiums —the final instalments having been made payable on Ist July.
These amounts will be shown in our next Balance Sheet.
Deposits at £13,201,000 are greater by £738,000; and the total liabilities to the public at
£15,061.000 show an increase of £1,231,000, including the increase in Deposits referred to.
On the Assets side, compared with last year, you will notice a decrease in our holding of Coin
and Bullion; but this is more than counterbalanced by our larger holding of Notes.
Cash and other items of a specially liquid nature amount to £6,537,000, equal—as was the case a
year ago—to Bs. Bd. in the £ of our liabilities to the public—the proportion of our Liquid Assets
being thus maintained in relation to the growth of our Liabilities.
Advances at £11,463,000 again show an increase—on this occasion to the extent of £1,114,000.
Bank Premises Account, which on 30th June, 1920, stood at £499,000, has now been reduced to
The amount at which City House in Pitt-street —formerly the Head Office of the City Bank —stood
in our books is largely responsible for the reduction of £BB,OOO in this item, as compared with 12
months ago. As you are aware, last year we sold these premises, the Bank retaining a lease for 28
years of that portion used for Banking purposes.
Shareholders will note the disappearance from the Balance Sheet of the item “Inscribed Deposits.
It will be remembered that early in 1925 the Bank made an offer to its remaining Inscribed Deposit
holders to convert their holdings into shares; and those who availed themselves of that offer must be
well pleased with the result.
A year ago, the balance of Inscribed Deposits had been reduced to approximately £200,000 ; and
your Directors decided to pay off this balance on 31st March last —thus clearing the account from the
Bank’s books many years earlier than would have been the case if the original arrangement for gradual
reduction of deposits had been adhered to.
Although the Bank thus no longer enjoys the use of these funds at a moderate rate of interest, there
can be no doubt that the gain in prestige has already more than compensated for any such disadvantages,
and will continue to do so in the future.
Though there was no necessity on our part to repay these Inscribed Deposits other than under the
original arrangement, I feel sure that the shareholders recognise that—by dealing thus fairly with the
situation—we were at the same time taking a step which could not fail to enhance the reputation of
their Institution.
The Profits for the year amount to £218,067, out of which £50,000 has been transferred to the
Reserve Fund, and £lO,OOO applied in reduction of Bank Premises; while the dividend at 8 per cent,
absorbs £157,826.
The amount brought forward from the previous year has been reduced, by the special transfer to
the Reserve Fund already referred to, to £26,423 ; so that we carry forward £26,663 to the current
: year’s accounts.
It will be noticed that Graduated Land and Income Taxes, amounting to no less than £54.180,
absorb £8256 more than a year ago. It is worth while to record that since January, 1914, the Bank
has contributed out of its Profits over £462,000 in such taxation.
I do not think it would be amiss if I were to refer you back to the figures of the first Balance
Sheet presented to you, on 30th June, 1910 —17 years ago—and make some comparison; as this will
serve to show you clearly and definitely the progress your Institution has made.
On 30th June, 1910, the Paid-up Capital was £958,000. The Balance Sheet placed before you
to-day shows this at £2,194,000. The Reserve Fund, which in 1910 was Nil, has now reached £1,000,000.
In June, 1910, we held Inscribed Deposits to the extent of £1,859,000, which, together with certain
special Deposits £429,000 repayable in 1912, amounted to £2,288,000. All of these have since been
repaid. In 1910, our customers’ Deposits, and other liabilities, amounted to £1,753,000 as against
£13,134,000 to-day. Our Profits for the half year to 30th June, 1910, were £12,000 —and for the
year now under review they are £218,000.
For some time now, all Bank Advances throughout Australia have been growing more rapidly than
Deposits; and during the year ended 31st March last these increased by £31,000,000, as compared
with only £7,000,0(30 increase in Deposits. This tendency cannot continue. Those qualified to express
an opinion consider that new enterprise has obviously gone far enough for the present, and that some
curb is necessary-—either until Advances are reduced or until a considerable increase in Deposits has been
experienced.
In this connection, it is necessary to refer specially to the recent excess of Imports over Exports.
During the 11 months ending May last, Imports into the Commonwealth totalled £151,857,000, and
Exports £136,713,000 —the excess of Imports thus amounting to £15,144,000. I fear that much of
this excess of Imports is the result of expenditure by the community on articles of luxury, rather than
on necessities or oh wealth producing importations.
When it is considered that Australia has a heavy annual interest bill running into many millions
to be paid on very large borrowings abroad, it will be realised that—in order to maintain a sound
position—Exports should substantially exceed Imports; and it is sincerely to be hoped that some
rectification in the tendencies recently noticeable will be brought about at an early stage.
IJhe excess of Imports over Exports can only mean that our Interest Bill payable abroad has in
effect been met by new public borrowings; and this condition of affairs cannot continue indefinitely.
The hope is expressed that one of the chief advantages resulting from the recent understanding
between the Federal Government and the State Governments as to future borrowings will be that more
strict control will be exercised over Government borrowings in the future. In the past, the indiscriminate
competition of the various Government bodies in Australia seeking money not only in this market, but
in London and elsewhere, has not been in the interests of the borrower, nor of the Commonwealth
generally. With co-ordination in this direction, we can fairly hope for better terms; and at the same
time we do not think it too much to expect that future borrowing proposals will only be sanctioned
after the closest scrutiny.
I referred previously, in discussing the Balance Sheet figures, to the increased Taxation we have
been called upon to bear. In addition to the Taxation shown in the Balance Sheet, we have had to meet
the cost of various recent enactments—more particularly in regard to the “Workers’ Compensation
Act” ; and we are faced to-day with a Child Endowment Scheme. In addition, it is proposed apparently
to single out the Banks for an extra burden in this direction, which at no time, I feel sure, was ever
contemplated by the Legislature. The effect of these proposals, if carried out, must mean large
additional costs to the Banks; and as a consequence must ultimately affect rates of interest—with a
consequent charge on industry generally, and an increase in the cost of living.
An analysis of the Bank’s business shows that the average amount of our Advances is £1025. These
figures indicate the democratic nature of the Institution.
Throughout the greater part of New South Wales the season, until recently, was good; but rain
is now badly needed in many districts, and the continued dry weather is causing some anxiety. In
Queensland the drought in Central divisions has continued until quite lately, when some fair rainfall
has been experienced. .More will be needed, however, if the forthcoming season is to show' improvement.
Great losses of stock have resulted from the drought in Queensland. In Victoria and South Australia
very dry conditions have prevailed; and though in these States also some recent rains have fallen, it
cannot yet be considered that conditions are satisfactory.
A good demand for Wool has been experienced throughout the year ; and it is hoped that this will
continue. Practically the whole of last season’s wool has been disposed of, and the carry over to the
forthcoming season is trifling. This is the more satisfactory when it is borne in mind that last season’s
clip approximately 2,500,000 bales, was one of the largest handled in this country. Owing to the
very dry conditions, it is probable, however, that the forthcoming clip will be smaller.
Conditions! in the cattle industry show no improvement.
The motion was seconded by Mr. H. R. Lysaght and carried unanimously.
Mr. James Kell, Mr. F. N. Yarwood and Lieut.-Col. T. L. F. Rutledge were re-elected Directors; and
Messrs. Milton F. Johnson. F.G.P.A.. and William 11. Perry, F.C.P.A., were appointed Auditors.
A heartv vote of thanks to the Directors, General Manager and Staff was moved by Mr. Kelso King,
seconded by'Hon. Thomas Waddell, supported by Mr. Goulston and carried by acclamation.
The Chairman declared the dividend is now payable.
At a subsequent meeting of the Board, Sir Mark Sheldon was re-elected Chairman of Directors.


..
'Jhi dtHjvk, tAat p/eases tAe Pa/ate>
AN ORANGE DRINK
MANUFACTURED
WE ARE THE AGENTS
SS3IV3h/WVH
M ooanns H
the
■ ss
A GREAT
GUN AT A
LOWPRtCE
THE BUiu.OOG is the Wonder Gun for £B/10/-
Quadruple bolted with side clips, fluid steel barrels,
guaranteed Government tested for any charge.
It fits the shoulder perfectly, and is beautifully
balanced.
HOLLOWAYS are the Rolls Royce of English Guns.
Nothing to touch them in the field or over the traps.
World famous, £l2 to £65.
THE FOX D.B. —Wonderful Hammerless, with or
without Ejector. They kill at remarkable distances,
£lB and £l5.
WESTERN ARMS CO. Guns, £4 and £6. Great
Field Guns. A Week’s Free Trial Given.
Obtainable everywhere, or write the agents for
catalogue.
S. COHEN, SONS £c CO. PTY., LTD.,
Hardware Merchants, 262 QUEEN ST., MELBOURNE.
Agents wanted where not represented.
Usher’s Hotel Ltd
Castlereagh Street, Sydney.
A first-class new and up-to-date
modern hotel.
Running hot and cold water in all b3d-
rooms and many have Bath de Luxe.
Automatic bedside telephones.
English and Trench Cuisine.
New Marble Bar, spacious and airy.
For perfection of service, comfort
and cleanliness, Usher’s Ltd. is un-
equalled.
Inclusive Terms, apply
MANAGER.
“Sebrof” : The strangest thing I ever saw
in a tattooing “studio” had no connection with
the decorative art. The place was a room
on Slave Island, a suburb of Colombo,
the proprietor was a .Tap, and the exhibit
was a wall clock which had a live cat for
its pendulum. Puss was suspended in a
horizontal position by an ingenious contri-
vance at the neck and haunches. During the
couple of hours I was being operated on she
never ceased oscillating and occasionally she
purred. I was unable to probe the mystery
of the cat’s peculiar position, as I couldn’t
understand the Tap and he professed his in-
ability to understand me. The animal showed
no signs of discomfort, but I thought it as
well to recount what I had seen to the first
white copper I met.
* * * *
“IT. Horsecollar”: The brief tragedy of a
married couple was told lately at Richmond
NOT HALF GUILTY.
“The way you draw men around you is something disgraceful."
“Don’t be silly—more than half, the time I’m pushing them away.’
(Vic.) police-court. The parties had beenwhited
about three months and the wife was under
19, the husband being a little older. She
declared that he beat her before marriage,
and that after marriage, when they were liv-
ing with her mother, he not only beat
her but cut his throat. He denied beating
her or any other woman; in fact, unlike
Gilbert's coster, it appeared that he never
so much as jumped on his own mother.
Further he only scratched his throat to
frighten his bride into a better frame of
mind. Being ejected by mother he retired,
by his own account, with the inconsiderable
furniture to Moorabbin, which isn’t much of
a place, either; she refused to follow, and
charged him with desertion. During their
short and cloudy married life the bride got
mixed up with cash orders to the amount
of £lBl 65., and possibly closer investiga-
tion would prove that they caused most of
the trouble. A large cash order, operating in
a small house in a poor suburb can shatter
the cup of happiness as effectually as a large
bet and a slow horse and a strange female
and a big drunk.
* * * *
“Solo”: Pressed bales of wool were
“tapped” in the old days as neatly as casks
of liquor (B. !4/7/’27). Hindoo and
Chinese hawkers were often adepts at the
game. Obtaining permission to camp at the
woolshed, or camping alongside a loaded
waggon, they would insert an auger or brace
with a big gauge bit into the bale. The
operator would turn the handle and the wool
would twist out of the bale in a continuous
sliver. As fleece wool would be always
selected and 30 pounds or more would be
extracted it was a profitable venture. When
the auger or bit was removed from the
tightly-pressed bale there was not the slight-
est sign that it had been tampered with.
* # * *
“R.F.K.F.”: News of the great depth of
the valuable phosphate deposits in the man-
dated island of Nauru recalls the happy
accident by which that wealth was discov-
ered. When A. F. Ellis was transferred in
1900 from one of the islands off the Queens-
land coast controlled by the Pacific Islands
Co. to the Sydney office, bis curiosity was
spurred by an odd lump of rock used in his
new quarters as a door-jamb. Not satisfied
with the prevailing explanation that the
block was a bit of petrified wood, lie had a
chip of it chemically assayed, and found it
was a phosphate rock of highest quality.
The rock had actually come from Nauru, and
the phosphate deposit, thus discovered on
that little tropical island 12 miles in circum-
ference, is now estimated at 100,000,060 tons
—the basis of sufficient rich chemical manure
to meet Australia’s agricultural needs for
the next half-century.
* * * *
“X.S.” : The young man who shot a domes-
tic dead and then
killed himself in
the garden of a
South Yarra board-
ing-house seems to
have been a writer
of most unusual
love-letters. Here
is one: “My dear
Mabel, —lt is a
very happy mo-
ment when I think
of y0u.... and re-
alise that each day
and each month
you are building
into your life the
essence of nobi-
lity ; that you
know the value of
life, the precious-
ness of time, and
your responsibili-
ties, so that in
later life you can
bring into your hap-
piness the con-
sciousness'. of .hav-
ing upheld the dig-
nity of your sweet
young womanhood.
Do be true to your
higher self! Spurn
everything that
will tempt you even
to a wrong thought,
and much more, a
wrong a c ti o n !
Love the true and
the beautiful.
Serve your tea-
chers and your
parents with deter-
mination and stead-
fastness ! And be
assure d of my
deep regard for
you:” It almost
looks as if the im-
passioned fellow
had turned up the
wrong page in
"Letters for Every-
body.”
"Bad Australian": It would appear from
“Spare Sub's" remarks (R. 21 /7/’27) that
his. experience with the revolver, apart from
the Webley. has been confined to the old-
fashioned "bull-dog" contraption; he gives
no indication of acquaintance with the
modern long-barrelled .38 cal. Colt revolver.
I have sampled practically every make of
pistol, including the Mauser, and my ex-
perience has convinced me that for accuracy,
stopping qualities and absolute dependability
in all circumstances the Colt revolver lays
over them all. There is little need for insist-
ence on flat trajectory and high power in
a pistol which is seldom used to effect be-
yond 50 yards. I once saw a man walk
about 200 yards after three Mannlicher
bullets had passed through him : in the same
camp a truculent individual who stopped a
ball from a “recortada" or sawn-off shotgun
THE BETTER WAY.
“Isn’t this thrilling—Betty writes that Harold went on his knees when he proposed.”
“Silly rabbits! I went on Billy's — it’s ever so much huggier.”
was dead before he hit the ground. When
we overhauled the cadaver we found a por-
tion of the lung protruding from the hole
made by the ball in its exit.
“Rob P.” : “Spare Sub” (B. 21/7/’27)
gets away from his own argument in favor
of the auto-pistol when he quotes the German
Mauser. This is anything but a pocket
weapon, being quite as heavy as Colt’s .45
long-barrel revolver and requiring belt and
holster to carry it. It is easily the most
efficient of auto-pistols for flat trajectory,
muzzle velocity, etc., but a Colt’s .45 will
be found to surpass it for quick use, balance
and stopping power. I have fired thousands
of rounds from such a weapon without even
a hint of a blackened or scorched gun-hand.
The Weble.v service revolver is reliable but
lacks the balance of the Colt .45. Both
pistol and revolver are essentially short-
range weapons, and any gadget about either
that is likely to retard the user’s speed is
a premium on his own funeral.
* * * *
“Columba”: Apropos felling factory chim-
neys and other lofty structures (8.-21/7/’27),
there was at least one out-size edifice, the
Campanile at Venice, which must have seri-
ously injured some priceless building no
matter which point of the compass was
selected for its fall. So the authorities left
it alone and when it finally got tired in 1905
it collapsed vertically—just sat down —-and
hurt nothing, not even the pigeons of St.
Mark's. This seems to point to an abso-
lutely even weakening all round the base.
* * * *
“Nakhoda”: According to the press Syd-
ney business men were in a quandary when
they entertained the brother of the King of
Siam because nobody knew his national
anthem. It is “Owa tanali Siam” repeated
in rapid succession in a shrill monotone.
Anyone can try it.
“Amyl Nitrate”: He was a T.B. and occu-
pied the bed next to mine in a Repat. hospital.
His wife, a regular visitor, had a cough
almost as racking as his own, and when lier
visits suddenly ceased, his anxiety was piti-
ful. It was a pretty wild night in mid-
May, and the two night ward-sisters had
completed their job of distributing hot coffee
and milk, getting hot-water bags and, finally
placing the usual medicine glass of linctus-
lieroin for emergency use on each patient’s
locker. I was awake at two o’clock when the
sister came along and flashed her lantern
across my bed. “Where’s Brown?” she
demanded. “He’s gone and so are his dressing-
gown and slippers, also his glass of linctus.”
I could give her no information, and the
two sisters hunted high and low for the miss-
ing patient while a couple of night orderlies'
vainly searched the hospital grounds. “Look
here, sister." I presently suggested. "Why
don't you send to Brown’s home? It's only
about a mile from the hospital." "Rubbish!"
she replied. “The man couldn't walk half that
distance.” Next morning an ambulance pulled
up and I saw Brown being carried in on a
stretcher. The sister told me afterwards
they had adopted my suggestion and sent to
his home. When the messenger arrived he
found the missing patient lying across his
wife's bed hemorrhaging frightfully, and the
poor woman in a hardly less grievous plight.
On a table near the bed was the empty
hospital glass. “She needed the linctus for
her cough more than I did,” gasped her
husband, “but it was a terrible struggle to get
here, Dig.” He died that forenoon ; his wife
followed him a fortnight later.
H: * * *
“Koolonga”: Bank clerks, being members
of such a staid and serious profession, are
generally reputed to lack a sense of humor.
Don’t believe it! A client of a leading Mel-
bourne bank gave his tailor a cheque for a
small amount, making it payable to “Pants.”
The cheque was dishonored owing to lack of
funds, but the tailor, though momentarily
aggrieved, recovered his good humor when
he turned to the back of the cheque and read
“Refer to Drawers.”
* * * *
“Kerys”: A 10-year-old youth suffering
badly from a bout of “pitchers” fell into the
hands of the Maoriland police at two o’clock
on a recent morning, when a constable,
watching an untenanted house for the suspect
who nightly camped therein, was astounded
to see the kid cautiously approaching.
Scarcely crediting that he had caught the ruf-
fian responsible for a long series of small bur-
glaries. the policeman took the boy home
and unearthed a huge hoard of proceeds of
iniqxiity—books, cigarettes, clothing, money,
crockery and tools, the quaint mixture topped
with a volume entitled “Maxims of the Wise
and Good.” The youthful burglar, who worked
only at night and always single-handed,
took his place by day in standard two at the
local school. He was returned to his parents,
but after a day of unexciting domesticity he
robbed the family gas-meter of its contents
and again went forth to seek adventure.
* * *
“Rolling Stone” : “Kriz” (B. 14/7/’27) is
evidently unaware that none of the party
that left Goulburn (N.S.W.) in the ’eighties
with the MacDonalds’ cattle bound for Ivim-
berlev (W.A.) completed the journey. Willie
MacDonald was the last to leave; up to
that stage the party had a plain track to
follow, pioneered some few years before by
Nat Buchanan when stocking the Ord River
country in W.A. .Toe Edmunds took charge
of the MacDonalds’ cattle on the Negri River,
where the writer also joined the outfit; we
two, with a couple of black boys and a
Chinese cook, travelled the cattle and bullock
team safely through the unexplored country
from Ord River to their destination between
the Margaret and Fitzroy rivers. We were
there some time before the MacDonalds
arrived ; they came to Derby with the first
boatload of diggers bound for the Kimberley
rush.
STEAM-OATS.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“Ne\er half so good a stroll as down among the
steam-boats.” —Martin Chuzzlewit.
Down among the steam-boats, the steam-
boats, the steam-boats:
Down among the steam-boats—
It's there I like to be!
Tug-boats and tankers,
Ocean tramps and “swankers,”
Sturdy Dogger-Bankers,
All eager for the sea !
I love to see the whalers
And great Atlantic mailers,
Auxiliaries and sailers—-
They’re all good to me.
The smell of open hatches
And newly-painted patches, .
The sailors singing snatches
And swearing loud and free!
They mind me of the old times,
The bully times, the hold times,
The ramping, roaring gold times,
When I was young and free !
A id they’re sailing in the morning,
All land-bound lubbers scorning;
But me they've given warning—
I’m “too old for the sea!”
So I sit and watch the steam-boats, the
steam-boats, the steam-boats!
Tlie sailing-ships ami “dream-boats” —
Down beside the.quay!
S.A.
CHARLES HENRY SOUTER.


Efficiency pays
Dividends!
The five famous Chartres lines featured on this page are essential for
office efficiency—each of them saving much time, labor and worry. ey
quickly pay for their installation in increased dividends. Ask tos
demonstration or free trial.
ft-teriM,
: v «
■
This Sundstrand Junior
Adding-Listing machine
is universally popular,
because it is the sim-
plest, fastest and most
dependable. It has
only 10 keys, and can
be operated rapidly by
anyone after a few
minutes’ practice. Prices
from £33. Ten years’
guarantee. Free trial.
’/S*.
SSL
Here you see the Remington Rapid Rotary Duplicator, the finest duplicating
machine on the market. Produces 6000 copies per hour of any typewritten
or handwritten matter at a fraction the cost of ordinary printing. An
absolute necessity for every class of business. Terms arranged.
ITT
r ju
mm
yri
111
f m ;
iil
mm
if
i
'
$
a
IY>
At left is pictured a set
of Kardex Visible In-
dexing Cabinets in-
stalled in a department
of Dalgety & Co., Ltd.,
Sydney a system
which is proving a boon
to hundreds of pro-
gressive firms. Kardex
gives you all the vital
facts at a glance. Its
introduction has ren-
dered the old recording
systems obsolete. A
revelation in efficiency!
The Remington Noiseless Typewriter is the last word in typewriters.
It eliminates the nerve-racking clatter of other machines, and makes
for much greater office efficiency. Where office work is done quietly,
it is done better. The Remington Noiseless does everything that
any other machine can do—except make a noise.
FULL PARTICULARS OF ABOVE MACHINES FROM
Chartres Ltd.
Chartres Ltd., Sydney
(Late Stott & Hoare & Chartres, Ltd.).
Chartres Pty., Ltd
Melbourne.
tz-r
Wk*.'-' ; 'ft y&ZjM
M ’ " * #Jj
• t
a
mm
The Spool-O-Wire Fastener is a handy little
device for stapling paper, cardboard, fabric,
etc. It will bind from 2 to 50 sheets of /
paper neatly and quickly. Makes 15,000 /
staples from one Spool-O-Wire before ,/
reloading is necessary. In view of /
its great utility and modest price, /
the Spool-O-Wire stapler should /
be in every office. /
Chartres, Ltd.,
Adelaide.
/
SEND
/ ME
/ PARTICULARS
y OF
/
/ -
NAME.
ADDRESS


Metro vick” Products Include
The Marie of
ĥ
Efficiency
TURBO-ALTERNATORS
ROTARY CONVERTERS
AUTOMATIC SUB-STATIONS
SUPERVISORY CONTROL
TRACTION APPARATUS
GENERATORS, A.C. AND D.C.
INDUSTRIAL MOTORS
CONTROL GEAR
TRANSFORMERS
SWITCHGEAR, A.C. AND D.C.
INSTRUMENTS
PERMIT US TO QUOTE FOR YOUR REQUIREMENTS.
MELBOURNE,
SYDNEY,
ADELAIDE.
M§ra?N
—f Tfl
BRISBANE
AND
WELLINGTON, N.Z.
NOBEL-GLASGOW EXPLOSIVES.
The Standard of Quality throughout the Empire.
Monobel
Samsonite
Gelatine Dynamite
Gelignite
Blasting Gelatine
Dynamite
Safety Fuse
Detonators
Cartridges
SECURE A RELIABLE EXECUTOR
by appointing
THE Trustees, Executors and Agency Co., Limited,
412 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE.
(The Pioneer Trustee Company of Australia.)
Its experience of over 49 years in controlling all classes of Estates ensures a service that
will protect the interests of your dependents.
If you have already appointed a private Executor, the Company can be substituted by a short
codicil.
SECURITY: Capital (Paid and Uncalled) and Reserves exceed £BBB,OOO
Arrange an interview or write for booklet.
DIRECTORS: Sir John Grice (Chairman), Sir J. H. MacFarland, M.A., T.L.D. (Vice-Chairman),
R. O. Blackwood, D. Stuart Murray, Alexander Stewart, J. Fordyce.
CHAS. R. SMIBERT, General Manager. V. G. WATSON. Manager.
The WIECAT
COLUMN
The Australian Hank of Commerce
(Sydney) :
To Re-
June, Profits. Dividends. Reserves, serves.
1916.. £58,596 3 p.c. = £35,903 £22,692 £90,242
1917.. 02,477 3 „ „ 35,960 26,517 116,759
City Bank of Sydney purchased.
1918.. 80,255 4 p.c. = 47,947 32,308 149,067
1919.. 97,256 5 „ „ 59,934 37,322 186,389
i 920. . 108,391 54., „ 65,967 42,424 228,813
1921.. 129,578 64,, „ 78,000 51,578 280,391
1922.. 127,196 7 „ ~ 84,000 43.196 323,587
1923.. 130,678 7 ~ „ 84,000 46.67 S 370,265
1924.. 133,253 7 „ „ 84,000 49,253 419,518
Inscribed deposits ot' £958,307 exchanged
for tully-paid shares, of which £638,872
were issued, the balance, £319.435,
being added to reserves .. . . 738,953
Premiums on new shares, £441 . . 739,394
1925.. 170,766 7* p.c.= 115,600 55,166 794,560
1926.. 197.943 S „ ~147,200 50,743 845,303
Premiums on new shares, £131,120. . 976,423
1927.. 208,067 8 p.e. = 157,827 50,240 1,026,663
During the year City House, Pitt-street,
Sydney, was sold—-it was formerly the head
office of the City Hank, whose business was
bought by the A.B.C. in 1917. The only
visible result was a drop of £88,432 in the
premises item; but as property valties in
the heart of Sydney have leapt’ ahead in the
last 10 years the sale must have turned in a
fine profit. Inner reserves have no doubt
benefited ; from the start the board’s policy
has been to develop that shock-absorber.
When the last of the old written-down pas-
toral properties taken over from the A.J.S.
were sold in 1915 any profits that might
have been made did not show up in the pub-
lished figures; and regularly £lO,OOO p.a.
is struck off premises. To visible reserves
over half a million has been added in the last
dozen years. In the same spirit a premium
of 7s. 6d. was attached, to tlie 368,000 £1
shares issued in February. That disappointed
the market; but, of course, the issue was
quickly subscribeed.
The striking growth of the advance busi-
ness is shown in the next table
Advances Profits
Paid per £1 p.c. on
Capital. Advances. Capital. Profits. Capital.
1915. . £1,195,831 £3,980.587 £3.3 £55,335 4.6
1920.. 1,200,000 7,176,809 5.9 108,391 9
1921.. 1,200,000 8,141,832 6.8 129,578 10.8
1922.. 1,200,000 8,157,958 6.8 127,196 10.6
1923.. 1,200,000 9,172,613 7.6 130,678 10.9
1924.. 1,200,000 9,351,298 7.7 133,253 11.1
1925.. 1,840,000 9,123,345 5.0 170,766 9.3
1926.. 1,840.000 10,334,004 5.6 197,943 10.7
1927.. 2,194,240 11,463,057 5.2 208,067 10.5
The conversion of £958,307 4 p.c. inscribed
deposits into shares in 1925 added £638,872
to paid capital and £319,435 to reserves and
greatly enhanced the bank’s renutation. The
last of the inscribed deposits (£200,000-odd)
were paid off in March. The movements in
the matter of liabilities have been :
Inscribed Other
Deposits. Deposits. Liabilities.
1910 .. £1,859,022 £1,716,477 £762,813
1915 . . 1,614,689 3,016,323 347,081
1920 . . 1,413,657 8,108,526 1,063,051
1921 . . 1,372,683 8,560,114 1,357,941
1922 . . 1,330,507 9,403,111 970,589
1923 . . 1,287,625 10,257,268 991,595
1924 . . 1,245,116 10,342,440 1,250,361
1925 . . 244,079 11,294,435 1,149,263
1926 .. 200.963 12,463,529 1,366,196
1927 . . Nil 13,201,514 1,859,653
At June 30 the bank was holding £4 13s. 6d.
of the public’s money for each £1 of its own ;
that figure would be slightly reduced when the
balance of the new capital and premium
moneys came in. Including inscribed de-
posits with total funds its figures were
£4 15s. 10d., £4 6s. sd. and £4 os. lid. back
to 1924. It still is in a position to extend
its list of borrowers and at present can
select the risks. To meet every £1 of outside
liability there was Bs. Bd. liquid at June 30.
1925 1926 1927.
Coin and bullion.. 873 £1,025",605 £801,194
Aus. notes and cash
with C’wealth Bank 965,073 1,107,482 1,464,784
Gov. securities, etc. 535,773 487,634 351,318
Owing by other banks 418,542 439,567 474,383
At short call in
London .. . . 632,555 283,133 345,542
Bills on London.. 2,348,785 2,643,428 3,096,712
£5,823,601 £5,986,849 £6,537,933
Advances grew faster than deposits last
year, the ratio being 86.8 p.c. compared with
82.9 p.c. in 1926
Liquid. Advances. Premises.
1910 .. £1,185,979 £3,754,889 £367,727
1915 .. 1,921,588 3.980,587 357,237
1920 .. 4,374,093 7,176,809 499,145
1921 . . 4,192,382 8,141,832 478,914
1922 .. 4,631,672 8,157,958 465,163
1923 .. 4,507,720 9,172,613 453,421
1924 .. 4,694,626 9,351,298 438,511
1925 .. 5,823,601 9,123,345 433,991
1926 .. 5,986,849 10,334,004 453,738
1927 .. 6,537,933 11,463,057 365,306
Expectation or an increase in the div.
created a strong market, for the scrip, which
was in demand at 355. a month ago. Recent
sales were at 31s. (Id., giving a return of
£5 Is. sd. p.c. on an 8 p.c. basis. That low’
figure raises the question once again whether
the market is not too vigorously discounting
future issues.
North Coast Steam Navigation Co.
(N.S.W.) :
To Re-
Dec., Profits. Dividends. serves. Reserves.
1917. . £29,842 9 p.c. -£27,000 £2,842 £85,167
19]8. . 29,845 9 „ „ 27,000 2,845 88,012
1919.. 50,920 9 „ ~ 27,675 23.245 111,257
1920. . 52,430 10 „ .. 35,664 16,766 128,023
1921.. 60,973 10 ~ „ 39,471 21,502 149,525
June,
1922.. 25,737 10 „ „ 19,736 6,001 155,526
1923.. 51.469 10 .. .. 39,471 11.998 167,524
1924.. 44.498 10 ~ 39,471 5,027 172,551
1925. . 42,047 10 .. .. 39,471 2,576 175,127
1926.. 42,181 10 „ ~ 39,471 2,710 177,837
Transferred to capital. £48,986 .. 128,851
1927.. 53,503 10 p.c. = 41,920 11,583 140,434
The gift issue was a pleasant surprise—it
amounted to one share for every eight. The
N.C.S.N. Co. was one of the few’ shipping
cos. trading along the Australian coast w hich
had not handed out bonus shares; indeed,
its returns to shareholders did not reach
10 p.c. p.a. until 1920. The bonus was
the more surprising in that the year was
filled with troubles for North-Coasters. Al-
though increased freights operated over
almost the whole term, the shorter working
week and increased Workers’ Compensation
premiums came as burdens on the timber
industry, already sadly weakened owing to
the collapse of prices in an import-governed
market; and the threat of Child Endowment
fastened on industry darkened the outlook.
A number of timber mills closed dow’n, w’hich
must have affected earnings, for timber car-
riage is an important item of freight. And
the competition of the North Coast railway
is not losing in keenness, although water
carriage is still the cheaper. With the bridg-
ing of the Clarence at Grafton, the co. will
be affected in those northern areas from
which, at the present time, it is drawing
lucrative business; but there will be com-
pensation in increased settlement. Profits
claimed by the accounts amounted to
£46,766, but net additions to the insurance
and repairs account amounted to £6737,
included in the introductory table. Addi-
tions have varied considerably: in 1926 and
1925 nothing was added, and variations
between 1919 and 1924 ranged from £22,115
in the former year to £2500 in the latter.
A new steamer, the Aracoou, was placed
in commission in January. Two motor cargo
ships are building in Denmark: the first, a
thousand-tonner, to bo named the Nimbin,
is on its w’ay out; the second vessel is to
be delivered early next year. During the
term, five ships were sold. Balance-sheet
figures reflect the operation :
1922. 1924. 1926. 1927.
Liabilities .. £44,177 £33,818 £40,802 £30,644
Ships .. .. 250,101 364,015 393,689 385,012
Freeholds, etc. .. 30,313 28,912 36,487 35,970
Liquid . . .. 333,739 227,891 202,913 215,981
As usual, the directors report the ships “in
good order and fully covered by insurance.”
The amount of depreciation is not specified.
When the co. had to make big alterations to
comply with the new provisions of the
Navigation Act the fund was not visibly
drawn on, nor has there been any apparent
change when vessels have been lost. Of
the liquids, cash and deposits alone were
greater than the outside liabilities. The
co. is in a very comfortable position, and
though profits of the past few years have
not been greatly in excess of the 10 p.c.,
it is probable that better figures could have
been shown. Net tangible assets amount to
265. 4d. After sales at 295. 6d. there are
sellers at that price.
* * * *
Peters’ American Delicacy Co., Ltd.,
ice-cream manufacturers, from the 4921 re-
construction. Goodwill, £25,250 is not
treated as an asset hereunder: —
To
June, Profit. Dividends. Reserves. Deficit.
1922. . £25,647 13J p.c. = £15,000 £10,647 £14,594
1923.. 17,932 11 „ „ 15,005 2,918 11,676
Reserves.
1924.. 30,464 10 p.c. = 15,000 15,464 3,788
Unexplained addition .. 47,644 51,453
1925.. 36,200 10 p.c. = 20,224 15,976 67,408
Unexplained additions . . 30,614 98,022
1926.. 43,175 11§ p.c. = 26,250 16,925 114,947
Unexplained additions . . 43,964 158,911
1927.. 53,539 13J p.c. = 36,024 17,515 176,426
This co.’s ice-cream captured the taste of the
public; and a wide public it is, too. But it
takes keen management to foster demand
and hold it. Six years back the co. intro-
duced a special cake cone, and that set sales
on the up-grade. Since then the co. has pro-
vided refrigerating power-cabinets, which
have reduced retailers' risks and enabled it
to build up a country trade, thus greatly
increasing turnover. In addition up-to-date
plant has kept production costs down, and
all combined have given capital a remarkable
vitality.
Profits claimed by the accounts were
equal to 19.7 p.c. on average capital last
year; 19.1 p.c., 1926; 17.9 p.c.. 1925; 19.2
p.c.. 1924. The "Wild Cat"’ believes the real
profits were even better than the ratios just
stated. Depreciation was deducted from the
asset concerned till 1924; since then' it has
been lumped with general and taxation re-
serves on the other side of the sheet. Last
year £43,904 was slipped into that cupboard,
equal to 17.8 p.c. of the book value of plant
at June 30; this brought unexplained addi-
tions for the last three years to £122,222.
How much of that is depreciation and how
much, if any, is profit only those inside can
say—and they can’t tell for certain to within
a few thousands. Shareholders have fared
well. Over the last four years divs. have
averaged a shade more than 11 p.c. p.a., and
called for only £97,498 out of declared net
profits totalling £103,378. Last year’s 13J
p.c. was a shade over two-thirds of what, the
hoard said was net profit.
During the 12 months to June 30, £75,000
of new capital came in, bringing the total to
£300,000, or double the figure of three years
back, and there was £176,426 of reserves —
subject to depreciation figures—to help. . The
following table shows bow the money has
been put to work:—
1924. 192;">. 1926. 1927.
Paid Capital. . £150,000 £225,000 £225,000 £300,000
Liabilities .. 75,086 13,427 14,088 23,525
Freehold, etc. 137,855 139,572 140,329 162,129
Plant, etc... 83,262 134,429 152,419 251,425
Investments .. 4,313 4,313 4,313 28,288
Stock.. .. 7.238 28,278 7,633 15,301
Book Debts.. 3,694 8,189 8,949 10,331
Cash . . .. 12 2,146 55,392
Extensions .. 52,122
So there is nothing to worry about in the
financial position. Additions to plant and
freehold have absorbed most of the now
capital and surplus earnings. During the
year £99,006 was put into plant; 800
power cabinets were installed at an esti-
mated cost of £lOO each, and another 450
were afloat when the balance was struck.
The board had then ear-marked £28,288 in
investments to replace these machines. Addi-
tions to freehold called for £21,800, and
£52,122 had gone out in progress payments
on extensions, etc. A freehold has been pur-
chased at Melbourne, where a subsidiary is
to be formed and a new factory established.
Also the business is to be extended to Bris-
bane, where Fetors’ Arctic Delicacy 06.,
■Ltd., is to be formed with a capital of
£250,000 in £1 shares—the outcome of amal-
gamation with Arctic Ice Creams, Ltd., which
is to get 20,000 fully-paids, a similar parcel
going to Peters’ and 110,000 shares are
to be offered for subscription. Peters’ has
increased its nominal capital to £750,000 by
the creation of 250.000 new £1 shares. The
scrip paid to 15s. is in demand at 365. 6d.,
at which figure the investor buys (1) an
immediate return of 51 p.c. p.a. on last
year’s div; (2) net tangibles, including de-
preciation reserve, of 235. lOd.; and (3) pro-
spects in a new share issue.
Queensland Trustees, Ltd. (Brisbane) :
Dividends and Added to Re-
June, Profits. Dividend Tax. Reserves, serves.
1917.. £4829 10 p.c. = £2651 £2178 £21,183
Transferred to capital, £20,200 .. 983
1918.. 5044 7 p.c. = 3341 1703 2,686
1919.. 5799 9 ~ „ 4295 )
Provident Fund, £lOOO (
1920.. 6363 9 p.c. = 4295) . „ rR
Provident Fund, £lOOO j ’
1921.. 6321 10 p.c. = 4829 ( goo r
Provident Fund, £5OO ( “ ’
1922.. 6775 10 p.c. = 4829 ) 144fi
Provident Bund, £5OO )
Transferred to capital, £5050 .. 1,640
1923. . 7197 10 p.c. = 5365 ) - 901 9 oa7
Provident Fund, £541 \ ’
1924.. 9221 10 p.c. = 5365]
Written off premises, £l5OO ) 1762 4,699
Provident Fund, £594 j
1925.. 9172 10 p.c. = 5050]
Written off premises, £l5OO j- 1984 6,683
Provident Fund, £638 j
1926.. 9842 10 p.c. = 5050 ) aoQQ 1 n 7S^
Provident Fund, £693 J 4UJy
1927. . 7913 1° P' c - = \ 2127 12,909
Provident Fund, £736 j
The report says nothing as to the cause of
last year’s big drop in net profits ; on the con-
trary 2s. 6d. per share is to be capitalised
and another ss. called in, which suggests that
the board does not think there is much pitch
in the outlook. An all-round increase in
exes, was the trouble; they ate up almost
SO p.c. of the year’s income compared with
741 p.c. in 1926, and a good part of the
increase, which was in salaries, taxes, etc.,
looks as though it has come to stay. The
net result was that total funds (capital and
reserves) earned only 12.4 p.c. for the 12
months to June 30 as against 16, 16, 16.4
and 13.4 p.c. hack to 1923. On the other
hand, drought conditions affected income by
limiting the amount of real and personal
estate sold during the year. The trust busi-
ness has gone ahead in this way:—
1910 .. £2,135,244 j 1923 .. £6,096,957
1915 .. 3,382,095 | 1924 .. 6,326,019
1920 .. 4,770,752 | 1925 .. 6,596,698
1921 .. 5,363,333 | 1926 .. 7.016,953
1922 . . 5,679,335 j 1927 . . 7,331,236
Compared with its predecessor last year’s
growth in value of estates administered was
small. The capitalisation will eat up all
but £284 of visible reserves, and the ss. call
will bring in £25,250 of new money, the two
advancing paid capital to £88,375 in 101,000
50s. shares paid to 17s. 6d. each, and 7s. 6d.
of the latter will represent sifts since 1917.
During the year the co. went to its bankers
for £20,000 on account of a new building,
but that debt will be wiped out when the
new capital comes in and net profit should
benefit. Here are balance-sheet figures ex-
cluding trust business
1915. 1925. 1926. 1927.
Liabilities .. £7,185 Nil £13,937 £20,002
Freehold and plant 28,818 £41,203 53,231 62,534
Public securities. . 20,550 21,842 21,842 21,842
Book debts and
cash .. .. 3,727 1,806 7,539 5,761
The co. has 66 p.c. of its assets in city office
property, and most of the balance in public
securities. Buyers have been offering 20s. fid.
for the scrip without attracting sellers. At
that: price the return on a 10 p.c. basis is
a shade better than 71 p.c., after allowing
for the bonus and call.
Goooeet and Smith, Ltd. < Sydney), tim-
ber merchants and manufacturers of builders’
goods
.Tune, Profits. Dividends. To Reserves. Reserves.
1917. . £10,004 6 p.c. = £9,900 £lO4 £55,104
1918.. 10,027 6 ~ ~ 9,900 127 .<5,231
Capital returned, £55,000.
1919.. 9,006 8 p.c. = 8,800 206 55,437
1920.. 9,112 8 „ „ 8,800 312 55,749
Assets written up . . 55,000 110,749
Transferred to capital, £llO,OOO.
Balance of reserves ( £749) disappear.
1921.. 20,004 6 p.c. = 13,200 6,804 6,804
1922.. 17,404 7 „ „ 15,400 2,004 'B,BOB
1923.. 17,795 8 „ ~17.000 195 9,003
Inner reserves disclosed, £25,000 34,003
1924.. 17,621 8 p.c. = 17,600 21 34,021
Capital returned, £llO,OOO
1925.. 11,103 10 p.c. = 11,000 103 34,127
1926.. 11,008 10 „ ~11,000 8 34,12.-,
1927.. 11.876 10 ~ „ 11,000 876 35,011
Again the profits disclosed were only just in
excess of div. requirements. That, with a
couple of exceptions, lias been tin* general
practice of this co. Its timber-trading has
been a lessor part of its activities for some
time, brick- and tile-making being more
important. It was in the happy position last
year, on the expiration of the leases at I’.vr-
mont where its sawmills were situated, of
being able to dispose of its stocks and portion
of the plant, without apparent effect on
earnings. The disposal of the timber may
indeed have been a happy release. Certainly
the co. has decided, for the time being at
least, not to restart the mills, but instead to
expand its terracotta and brick works. The
fact that the tile works —destroyed by tire in
the previous year—were producing during the
term assisted by earnings, but tin* directors
content themselves with I lie bare statement
of the ‘‘profit for the year.’’ Balance-sheet
figures reflected the movements mentioned:—
1925. 1926. 1927.
Machinery, plant, etc... £lO,OOO £27,282 £35,000
Stocks .• 18,682 18,922 3,540
Book debts, shares in
other cos. and casli.. 125,879 133,772 123,749
£154,561 £179,976 £162,289
Liabilities .. .. 4,934 30,341 11,778
Net assets .. .. £149,627 £149,635 £150,511
The net increase in machinery, plant, etc.,
was £7718, which appears to be quite con-
servative remembering the new tile works.
Book debts and shares in other cos. were
£lO,OOO-odd lighter, and the amounts owed to
creditors £18,566 less than at the previous
balance. Share holdings are substantial, and.
although their nature is not specified, the
profit figures suggest their quality. Goodlet
and Smith to-day is largely an investment
co.
Although the co. was always conservative
in divs. —-only in the past three years has 10
p.c. been paid—-shareholders have been well
treated: in 1918, £55.000 of the capital of
£165,000 was returned and two years later a
bonus issue doubled the holdings of share-
holders. The co. was assisted in past years
by its sale of large timberyards, etc., which
the growth of the city had enveloped and in-
creased in value. The report contains the
customary statement that the machinery and
plant are in good order and stock has been
valued at cost. The profit-earning capacity
of the investments and the tile and terra
cotta works appears to be sufficient to justify
the belief that 10 p.c. divs. arc as sure as
anything can be in these days of high costs
and experimental legislation. The shares
are steady at around 325., which means that
the market is either influenced by the past
or knows something that is not . visible in th-
balance-sheet. Net tangible assets at tlici
conservative book values amount to 265. 1
for each £ of capital.
* * * *
Southern Hemisphere Assurance Asso
ciatjon, Ltd.: —This co. registered in Syd
ney, April 15, 1925, with a nominal capital
of £200,000 in 10s. shares. The idea was
to write life, accident and house-purchase
business. The promoter, C. A. Bull, go!
10,000 fully-paids, £lOOO in cash and a
job as Governing Director. To date, so far
as we can ascertain, no accounts have been
published, although the co. has been over two
years in existence. The Registrar General’s
files show that 50.032 shares had been issued


A LITTLE PLAY IN THREE ACTS.
"Mr. Lang continues to promise railways, underground or surface, to every suburb and country town, and rises in wages to ad.”
LANG: “What! Crying for the moon?”
“Here, have a moon each!”
THE PAWNBROKER: “Vasn’t he kind?
You always vear it on your leg like
this—for effer and effer.”


OVERTRADING.
Some Stocks in Danger
See the
“ ‘Wild Cat' Monthly’
AUGUST NUMBER ON SALE.
SINGLE COPY, 2/-
PER ANNUM, 22/6.
Principal Newsagents,
or
“The Bulletin” Offices,
Sydney or Melbourne.
We stock -(- GF -)- Malleable Fittings to suit
every requirement, and as there are over 7500
varieties to choose from, we can accommodate any
trade. For water, steam or gas. Will not split or
crack, and are correct in every detail. Obtainable
fiom William Adams & Co., Ltd., Sole Agents.
Sydney, Newcastle, Melbourne, Brisbane, Adelaide,
Perth.— Advt.
* * * *
Light weight and simplicity in handling and instal-
lation are big features in the success of Pioneer
Wood Pipe. They weigh only a third as much as
metal pipes and can be moved from one site to
another, as required, with little effort. Moreover,
they do not rust nor tuberculate, and are unaffected
by extremes of heat or cold or electrolysis. Those
interested in lasting conduit service should send for
a manual of complete information. Australian Wood
Pipe Co., Ltd., Burns Bay Road, Lane Cove, N.S.W.
(Ferry to Figtree) ; and at Footscray, Vic.— Advt.
: * J * 5*C ;jc
WIRE ROPES—AUSTRALIAN MADE—Prices and
particulars from Bullivants’ Australian Co., Ltd..
331-333 Kent Street, Sydney; B. K. Morton Pro-
prietary, Ltd., 85 Clarence Street, Svdnev; J. H.
Reid and Sons, 401-403 Kent Street, Sydney, Success-
fully used all over the Commonwealth for all pur-
poses.— Advt.
* * * *
Inventors. —Have you an idea worth patenting?
Griffith & Hassel, Patent Attorney, 77 Castlerengli
Street, Sydney, obtain Commonwealth and foreign
patents.— Advt.
* * * *
IDEAS—Commonwealth and Foreign Patents
obtained. Coi.i.ison & Co., 483 Collins St-cet, Mel-
bourne, and Adelaide. Thirty veais’ practice. Write
us for Inventors’ Guide.— Advt"
**’ * *
If you are a producer of ores, mattes, metals and
metalliferous residues of any kind, Burkard and
Co., Ltd., 26-30 Bridge Street, Sydney, are buyers
for U.K., Continent of Europe and U.S.A. smelters,
and will pay you the highest prices and give von
best terms. Advances made against ore—and market
information, prices, assays at your disposal. Send
samples and particulars.— Advt.
* * * *
Leplastriers Concrete Mixers — of all necessarv
sizes—are designed and manufactured in Australia bv
expert engineers. Apply Goldsbrough House, Sydney .
CoLins House, Melbourne; 164 Edward Street, Isn\
bane : or 21 Morphett Street, Adelaide. — Advt.
ThePadfic Cable Board
BEST ROUTE TO GREAT BRITAIN,
CANADA, NEW ZEALAND, etc.
TARIFF PER WORD “VIA PACIFIC.”
Ordi- Daily Daily Letter
nary. Deferred. Telegram.
GREAT 1 2/- 1/- 9d. (minimum
BRITAIN ( 15/-, 20 words)
Week-end 7jd.(minimum ehargel2/6, 20 words)
PRANCE 2/7 1/3* -Nil
1 2/6
HOLLAND
BELGIUM
GERMANY
SWITZERLAND J
CANADA .. 1/2
1/3
Nil
9*d. 7d. (minimum
_ , .... 11/8. 20 words)
Week-end sfd. (minimum charge 9/7,2owords)
U.S.A. . . 2/4 to 1/2 to Nil
2/8 2/4
f N.Z. Night Letter
NEW | Rate minimum charge
ZEALAND.. 4jd. ) 3/- for 20 words and
l 2d. per word thereafter.
THE PACIFIC CABLE BOARD,
261 George Street, and 55 Liverpool Street,
Sydney.
Tel. City 1346 and 87784.
Collins House, Collins Street, Melbourne.
lei. Central 2084.
Queensland
Insurance Co.
Ltd.
Head Office:
Pitt & Bridge Streets,
Sydney.
The Largest
Australian Company
transacting
Fire, Marine, Personal
Accident and Sickness,
Burglary, Live Stock,
Public Risk, Boiler Ex-
plosion, Workers’ Com-
pensation, etc., etc.
cr
YG
POORD&SO*
FINEST DRY GIN
_ & OLD TOM
'I
DT
Swift & C'onipunv l,id.. AiiHtruiusiun Agents. 26 20 Clamice St.. S.viiney
WHO IS THE EXECUTOR OF YOUR WILL?
IF you have appointed a friend, have you considered that he may die soon after you, and your
Estate may pass into the control of someone whom you would never have trusted? That he
may maladminister the Funds? Or your Estate may suffer losses through his.neglect or inexperience?
THESE RISKS CAN BE GUARDED AGAINST BY APPOINTING AS YOUR EXECUTOR
PERPETUAL TRUSTEE COMPANY (LIMITED)
OP 33-39 HUNTER STREET, SYDNEY,
■which offers undoubted security, combined with Expert Administration.
CAPITAL AND RESERVES.
Subscribed Capital .. .. .. .. .. £1,000,000
Uncalled Capital .. .. .. .. .. 825,000
Perpetual Deposit with Government .. .. . . 20,000
RESERVE FUND 105,000
Trust Funds Notv Under the Company’s Control Exceed £28,000,000
Write or Call for Booklet. Managing Director: R. Copland Lethbridge.
Manager: H. V. Douglass.
at January 14, 1920. Of these 40,032 were
subscribed by the public and called to ss.
each. That should have produced £lO,OOB,
but only £4744 had come in—unpaid calls
totted up to £5264. Out of the cash re-
ceived the promoter was to collect £lOOO,
and “the usual” brokerage (amount not
specified in prospectus) and formation exes,
were to be paid. As policy-holders might
like to know what protection they now have,
apart from uncalled capital, it is desirable
that accounts should be published at the
earliest possible moment.
Hs sjs Hs *
There is a good deal about overtrading and
its dangers in the August number of the
Wild Cat Monthly which will be pub-
lished on Saturday. As an illustration of
what it may lead to the remarkable history
of the Commonwealth Agricultural Service
Engineers, Ltd. (C.A.S.E.), is dealt with.
Companies’ accounts recently issued are dis-
sected and analysed; the net tangible assets
per share of all the principal investment
stocks of Australasia are given in a table
that is invaluable to the prudent investor;
the “Business Biography” of the month is
devoted to Metters, Ltd.; and recent develop-
ments in Malayan and other mines are re-
ported upon by experts. The Monthly,
which has lately been enlarged, is to be had
from most newsagents or direct from The
Bulletin offices, Sydney and Melbourne.
The price per copy is 2s.
* * * *
Zinc Corporation, which, though a treat-
ment co. to begin with, soon switched over
to mine-owning and bought Block 5, formerly
part of the Broken Hill South, found 1926
a much better year than 1927 will be.
Accounts to December 31 last show a work-
ing profit of £482.027 ; investments brought
in £77,957; royalties and taxes ate up
£120,714 and depreciation and other exes.
£15,222, leaving £424,04S net. Out of that
7s. per share was handed to the ords. and
Us. to the prefs., absorbing £363,728, the
balance bringing reserves to £160,320; and
there was another £lOO,OOO in mine develop-
ment account. The mill treated 243,141
tons ore (246,146 tons in 1925) for 51,920
tons lead and 46,552 tons zinc concentrates,
at an all-round cost of 365. sd. per ton,
which was lOd. down. At December 31 out-
side liabilities were £387,865; cash and book
debts, £352,872 ; concentrates (conservatively
valued), £154,176; plant and stores, £78,549;
and investments were lumped with the mine
at £934,716.
Paid capital is £572,261, of which
£245,692 is in prefs., carrying a cumulative
20 p.c. p.a. and sharing rateably with ords.
in any surplus. The income from invest-
ments is sufficient to meet their fixed charge,
and they seldom appear on the market. The
ords. (10s. fully paid) got an interim 4s. in
June and are selling at 425. 6d. The 1926
average price for lead and spelter was
£3l 2s. 3d. and £34 2s. Sd..respectively. Lead
has dropped more than £7 per ton below that
and spelter more than £5.
❖ ❖ ❖ ❖
The Commonwealth Oil Corporation
(N.S.W.) has reached its end. It has been
a. long while getting there, for the co. was
formed just over 20 years ago and proceeded
at once to throw money around—just like
Australia is doing now. The chickens, of
course, came home to roost in time, and,
falling into the hands of a receiver, the sub-
stantial assets were passed on to John Fell
and Co., who have struggled with them for
five years past. Rising costs have now
beaten them; and the whole concern is to
be sold. There is no question whatever about
the richness and extent of the shale in the
Wolgan Valley, and at Capertee and Hart-
ley ; but Australian wages and working con-
ditions —especially working conditions —more
than counterbalance all that.
* * # *
The decision of Mt. Morgan to go into
liquidation, arrived at last week, follows
upon the directors’ counsel of despair. It
is reckoned that there is still £l5 000,000
worth of metal in the mine—probably a
great deal more; that much has been proved
—but under existing conditions it can only
be got out at a loss; and, though every
recent year has bitten further into the co.’s
cash, the directors were given no hope that
costs would be improved. On the contrary,
further demands were lately made on behalf
of the employees. In the interests of share-
holders there was no alternative but to save
what was possible from the wreck that has
been made of the great mine. It is no use
dwelling upon the very large dividends of
past days, and saying that if they hadn’t
been paid away the mine could now be kept
open. If there were no prizes in mining
there would be no mining; if those dividends
hadn’t been paid, hundreds of shows which
have since been. opened up and worked, 95
p.c. of them without any profit at all, would
never have been touched.
Very few people want miners and other
workers to toil for less than they have been
getting. Most people would like them to
get a great deal more. But if they don’t
earn it they can’t get it. and there was a
time when they would scorn to take it.
Unfortunately, over-borrowing has masked
the real position, and a great part of the
community has been getting more than it
has earned. But the real position cannot
be masked for primary producers who have
to compete with the world’s markets; and
the copper-miner is among those who must
suffer. Nine-tenths of the properties that
employed him have already closed down;
and Mt. Morgan would have done the same
three years ago if it hadn’t had a long stock-
ing—in other words, if the past hadn't been
made to subsidise the present.
Australia has had great luck in being a
large producer of lead, zinc and silver, which
have all had a run of very high prices. But
those, high prices are fading, too: and what
is. going to happen in those industries isn’t
nice to think about. Whether the history
of Mt. Morgan will be repeated at the
Broken Hill mines rests chiefly with the
men employed in them. It is to’be hoped they
will argue the matter out for themselves
before it is too late. Brave words from
union and political leaders won’t fill empty
cupboards.
There is a vaeue proposal to work Morgan
on co-operative lines: the local Chamber of
Commerce and municipal council have been
colloguing with some of the workmen about
it. The co. has been begging for co-opera-
tion for years past. To talk about it now
is like the crew offering to man the ship
after the captain and officers have gone
ashore. Still, it’s better than nothing. If
the men got together and showed that they
seriously wart to save their jobs and the
old ship, no doubt at all the directors would
suspend the liquidation. They’re that sort
of men.
* * . * *
L. and N. Brown Coal, Ltd., London,
has been formed to buy 420 acres at Mor-
well (Tie.) containing 400,000,000 tons of
brown coal —the estimate many years ago
of James Stirling, then State Geologist. The
prospectus claims that for £35,000 a German
plant with three excavators can be installed
to open-cut the mine. The depth of the over-
burden is 64 feet, of red, white and yellow
clays of good quality. One excavator costing
£4OOO will, it says, shift 250.000 tons of
coal in a year of 250 working days of three
shifts of seven hours each. Three excavators
could raise 500.000 tons. Machinery to
make 100 tons of briquettes a day will cost
only £40.000. This all looks like an eye-
opener for the Electricity Commissioners at
Yallourn, three miles away. The co. says it
can make briquettes at 12s. n ton. including
2s. a ton for mining. It takes nearly two
tons of brown coal to make one ton of
briquettes. The average profit is estimated
at 12s. a ton, or 6s. a ton of coal treated.
The co. proposes to distil the coal for oil
and manufacture powdered fuel by the L.
and N. process. Vendors are the Australian
Commonwealth Fuels and Oils Co., West-
minster, London, who get 75.000 £1 prefer-
ence shares, 100.000 (less seven) ordinary
shares and £2O 000 in cash. With £195,000
in paper and cash, vendors are doing very
well. On top of that, L. and N. process
rights have been transferred by the Sensible
Heat Distillation, Ltd., for a recompense of
£25,000 cash and £50.000 fully-paid ordi-
naries. This amply proves that these pro-
moters are sensible about something else
besides heat. Together, these payments mop
up £270,000. The co. has arranged for
£l5O 000 of first-mortgage 8 per cent, con-
vertible debenture stock. After those two
active cormorants, vendors and promoters,
take £45,000 cash and their ancient and aged
colleague, Preliminary Expenses, absorbs
£12,000. there will be about £9O 000 in hand
for development purposes. Judging by the
£10.000,000 spent at Yallourn, it won’t take
long to use it up. Then when the concern
fails, somebody will throw another brick at
Australia. The Bulletin gets in first and
has its fling at the cormorants.
* * *
Westralian Miners’ Union executive met
the other day and cursed the new Arbitration
award, which provides for things to remain
mostly as they are. The Court was up-
braided for asking the workers to bear the
whole burden of the present bad state of the
industry, which the “greed of dividend-hunt-
ing directors, inefficient management and
obsolete worn-out plants have brought about.”
The union thought it had a good case, and
maybe the Court thought so, too ; but what’s
the good of awarding higher wages and better
working conditions if there won’t be any
industry left to provide them?
•!: * if. *
Great Victoria, which has been for years
trying to make a do of a huge ironstone
formation 25 miles south of Southern Cross
(W.A.) , has fared extremejy well in the cir-
cumstances. Mining and treatment opera-
tions have been capably performed, but low
gold content has brought the co. to its last
stand. With a view to improving the posi-
tion, the co. tried carting and treating ore
from French’s lease near by, but with poor
results. Its latest proposal is to acquire
the Broncho Horseshoe mine, about 40 chains
distant, which contains an ore deposit some-
what similar in size and character to its
own. The scheme does not offer much en-
couragement, but, by picking the best patches
from the Broncho, a small profit may be
won. If the co. does not achieve success,
it deserves to.
Another gold-mining resurrection is pro-
ceeding in the West. This time the Lazarus
is the old Riverina South at Mulline. Capi-
tal was recently found to unwater the old
workings, and now more capital is being
subscribed to begin where a Melbourne co.
which formerly worked the property left off.
A Mines Department expert reported some
time ago that the show had prospects, and a
recent sampling is said to have disclosed a
substantial tonnage of developed and par-
tially-developed payable reserves. The fact,
however, remains that the Melbourne co.
mentioned and others before it burnt their
fingers in the mine.
❖ * i*c i»:
“O.B.” : Monte Carlo shareholders (W..A.)
are advised to look into its affairs. Funds are
short and there is a danger of the co. letting
things rip, in which case no doubt the Perth
crowd that has a mortgage on the Glenelg
Queen option would foreclose, pay off the
balance due, treat the ore opened up and then
hop out.
* * * :[:
The starting in of Selayang’s long-delayed
dredge was announced last week, and since
the original vendors of the property were F.
G. Pratten and Malcolm Newman, and a
lot of the shares in the English co. are held
here, local interest has been aroused by the
news. The co.’s area is close to Kuala Lum-
pur, in the F.M.S., and the original lease
area was i>23 acres. F. W. Payne and Son
(London) close-bored 130 acres and re-
ported an average of .601 b. of tin oxide per
cubic yard, and the balance of the area
goes from .451 b. to .601 b. per c.y. Newman's
report on the property gave a higher value
—.Bolb. to .901 b. ner c.y. for IGO acres, with
an average depth of 50 feet, giving 12,000,000
yards of dredging. He also sized up the
balance of the acreage, now included in the
lease, as equal to the first area in value,
with a yardage of 12,000,000. The oxide
was reported to be good quality and easily
saved. The dredge, which was to have
started last April, will dig to 50ft. and has a
capacity of 150,000 c.y. per month, and
full modern tin-saving equipment. The pos-
sible catch in the proposition lies in the
allegation that Selayang has a “limestone
pinnacle” bottom. If so. the dredging will be
full of excitement, Something pretty defi-
nite should soon be known now. The £1
shares were quoted at 255. 4£d. sellers last
week-end in Sydney, 1100 passing. Capital
is £140,000.
❖ * =!: *
Commonwealth Malaya Tin, represented on
the field by E. J. J. Rodda, has discarded
a couple of its options, but thinks so well of
Bang Plire, near Renong, that it is turning
itself from a co. in 300 £5O shares into one
of 30,000 shares of £1 each in order to push
on the business ; 15,000 will go to the present
holders, 5000 will be offered to them at par
and 10,000 will be reserved. Bang Plire, ac-
cording to scout bores, has 341 acres with 23
million yards of 10.720 z. dirt and another 100
acres of lower but payable values; this is
to be check-bored. Half a dozen other
licenses and options in Siam, Burmah and
Johore are being investigated.
*!■ v *!- •!•
For July Takuapa Valley, Siam, reports
57 tons of tin oxide from 120,000 c.y. turned
over in 632 hours. This works out, if the
reported figures aren’t wrong, at a little
less than 21b. to the yard, which seems too
beautiful to be true. In June the harvest
was 27 tons; but then only 473 hours were
worked and 95,000 yards turned over. The
dredge equipment is high-class and the 1926
average value was .731 b. Dredge troubles
and the occasional striking of that buried
timber which the boring always seems to
leave to the dredges to discover have occa-
sionally impeded progress, but on the whole
the co. has given its shareholders a good
spin since the first dredge set in on May
22, 1925, and should do even better when
the duplicate Diesel electric-dredge starts at
the end of this year.
»S» »?»
Kuala Kampar is closing down the dredge
to change the top tumbler and effect other
alterations. The show is one of Alluvial
Tin’s propositions in the Kinta Valley, and
has been very highly rated. The dredge is
a facsimile of that which has proved success-
ful at Malim Nawar South, and like it is
designed to dig to 90 feet with a monthly
capacity of 150,000 c.y. Of the 50,000,000
c.y. of good dredging ground. 20,000,000 yards
are estimated to go lib. and 30,000,000 yards
,661 b. June returns were 30 tons black tin
from 175,000 yards, the May figures being
20 tons from 142,000 c.y. The July stoppage
for repairs will last a fortnight or so.
❖ ❖
“Old Warden” : A fragmentary report came
through last w’eek of the discovery of a
couple of reef formations in the upper regions
of the Bulolo (New Guinea). On.e discovery
is described ns that of a leader on Merri
Creek, an even more inaccessible spot than
the Edie, taken up by two experienced
Papuan old-timers, Les Joubert and Frank
Pryke. The pair took out of the creek a
lot of coarse, rubbly specimen stuff, but
neither seems to have tried for a reef be
fore they turned it in to go down to the
coast last January. A “leader" may. how-
ever, mean anything. The second find, in
the wild tangle between the Edie and tin*
Merri. sounds more promising. The Warden
has had a look at this, which shows con-
solidation at 16 feet. A cut was made
across the formation and showed a solid
quartz footwall 5£ feet wide averaging 2io r /..
per ton with a formation 26 feet wide.
Samples across the whole width averaged
20oz. to the ton! There was no hanging
wall. It may be quite 0.K.; but how to get
the battery up to Merri Creek or the ore
down to the comparatively accessible Bulolo
Valley is going to take som e thinking about.
Even a fly making his way up Merri Creek
has to spit on his hands to negotiate some
of the “sidings.”
* * * *
Straits Tin, Ltd., is a holding and pros-
pecting concern founded by J. R. Peberdy.
late secretary of Alluvial Tin, Malim Nawar
and other properties held by the same in-
terests. Peberdy was in the F.M.S. as secre-
tary of Rawang for some years, and then
decided to float Straits Tin. W. A. Ander-
son, chairman of Bundi, a show floated by
the Malaya Tin Corporation of Melbourne,
is understood to be associated with him in
the proposition. Peberdy was, at latest
advices, in Malaya, looking over areas with
a view to securing options. His co. is
registered in the F.M.S. with a nominal
capital of £25,000 in 50,000 10s. shares.


ABRIDGED PROSPECTUS
of
Edie Creek Consolidated Gold
Mining Leases (No Liability).
(To be registered under the Part II of the Companies Acts of New South Wales.)
NOMINAL CAPITAL - - £150,000
Divided into 150,000 Shares of £1 each
65,000 Shares of £1 each shall be issued to the Vendors, Edie Creek Gold Mining Leases, Ltd., m part
consideration for the sale of the Leases described herein. i
85,000 Shares of £1 each shall be offered to the public, payable as to 5/- on apphcation, and per shar
on allotment. Calls, if made, not to exceed 1/- per share at intervals of not less than one month.
DIRECTORS:
LESLIE HAROLD HINKS, Engineer, 19 O’Connell Street Sydney.
WILLIAM ALLISON GRANT, Master Builder, 1 4 Martin Place, Sydney.
WILLIAM WILLS HIGGINS, Grazier, Telegraph Road, Pymble.
Up to 2 other Directors may be appointed.
The Articles of Association provide for up to five (5) Directors.
The qualification for Directorship shall be the holding of contributing shares
of £lOOO.
The Directors may proceed to allotment when 40,000 contributing shares have
been applied for.
SOLICITORS:
CAMPBELL & CAMPBELL, “Sydney Morning Herald” Building, Pitt Street, Sydney
BANKERS:
THE AUSTRALIAN BANK OF COMMERCE, LTD., Head Office, George Street,
Sydney.
AUDITORS:
H. B. ALLARD, WAY & HARDIE, 26 O’Connell Street, Sydney.
MANAGING SECRETARIES:
F. I. W. HARRISON, SON & KNOX, 1 5 Bent Street, Sydney.
BROKERS:
HATTFRSLEY & MAXWELL, Members of the Sydney Stock Exchange, Dalton
House, 11 5 Pitt Street, Sydney.
OBJECTS OF THE COMPANY.
The principal objects for which the Company is being formed are:— interest thereof, and in particular the gold mining leases
(1) To acquire gold mining leases and rights and auriferous land in New Guinea a “. * * t^e Edie Creek, Bulolo Goldfields, Territory of New Guinea, and with a
known as the Hutchie, Dover, Doverian, Rockcliffe, Kai Viti, Ruth and Tucker, agreements as to the Directors may seem requisite and necessary,
view to the acquisition of any such miners' rights or land to enter into and carry • other mlneral subs tances (whether auriferous or
(2) To search for, win, get, quarry, produce, amalgamate, dust refine andLittons may seem conducive to any of the Company’s objects,
not) and precious stones, and generally to carry on any metallurgical operations which may
LOCATION OF COMPANY’S LEASES.
The Company’s leases are situated on Edie Creek, on the Bulolo Goldfields,
Territory of New Guinea. The field lies some sixty miles from the port of haiamoa,
and is accessible either by bush track or aeroplane. The establishment of the air
services has done away with one of the greatest difficulties that ha to e met,
namely, the transport of supplies to the field.
Edie Creek, until quite recently, was more or less unknown to the outsl£ j®
world, but has become famous owing to the discovery of very rich alluvial gold
deposits by Mr. W. G. Royal, whose name is now associated with Edie Creek when-
ever the name is mentioned.
The leases being acquired by the Company adjoin the Royal leases, and
extend from that point to the junction of Edie Creek with the Bulolo River. They
there join up with the leases of the Guinea Gold No Liability Company, w ose
shares to-day are quoted at a very high premium.
The climatic conditions are excellent, and, owing to the rapid fall in altitude,
vary from cool to warm, according to the particular spot on the creek that may
be chosen.
LEASES.
The Company has contracted to acquire the following dredging and sluicing
areas: The Tucker, Ruth, Kai Viti, Doverian, Dover, Rockcliffe and Hutchie. They
range in size from 1 8 to 100 acres, and are all 5 chains wide. Goldmining ground
is found outside the 5-chain limit, and no great difficulty is likely to be experienced
in obtaining extra leases to cover the area on either bank over and above the width
stated. Leases have been approved for the Ruth, Doverian, Dover and Rockcliffe,
and applications have been made in the three other cases.
All these areas are known to be rich in gold, but are distinctly of the hydraulic
sluicing type, and as such there is no possibility of their being worked under miners’
rights.
METHOD OF WORKING.
It is the intention to obtain the services of the best available Engineer who
has been accustomed to hydraulic sluicing, to take charge of the working of the
Company’s leases. Realising that good returns depend upon efficient management
and proper plant, it is felt that the only way to give shareholders the best results
is to obtain the most highly-skilled men and the most suitable and up-to-date plant.
The considerable fall in altitude between the top and bottom of the leases to be
acquired and the abundance of water from the creek simplify the problem of
working the areas, and the Company is already making arrangements for the
purchase of the most suitable plant and equipment, so that no delay will occur in
commencing operations.
VENDORS’ CONSIDERATION.
The Vendors Edie Creek Gold Mining Leases, Ltd., are asking by of
consideration 65,000 shares of £l each issued as fully paid, together with £I4,UUU
cash The whole of the cash goes in payments to the original leaseholders tor
their leases, with the exception of £2500 to be retained by Edie Creek Gold Mining
Leases, Ltd., to cover money spent by them in connection with the purchase or
the leases and formation of the company, reports and other expenses.
A large proportion of the shares above referred to will be issued through
Edie Creek Gold Mining Leases, Ltd., to the original leaseholders, who, in all cases,
are asking a much smaller proportion of cash than of shares.
CAPITAL REQUIRED.
As stated previously, it is the intention to issue 85,000 shares of £ 1 each, and
to call same to 10/-. This will make available £42,500, of which £14,000 will go
to the Vendors, leaving £28,500 to get the venture started. There seems little
likelihood of these shares ever being called beyond 10/- per share, as it is antici-
pated that the money received would be ample for all equipment, plant and running
expenses, until returns are obtained from gold won.
TRANSPORT.
It is expected that since the aeroplane services are now an accomplished fact,
running expenses per annum will be considerably reduced and many labor units
will be retained on the field which would, under conditions hitherto existing, have
been employed carrying supplies to and from the coast. The Company is prepare ,
if found necessary, to undertake its own air transport, and negotiations have already
been undertaken with the idea of securing the most suitable plant and management
FLOTATION EXPENSES.
The Company will pay all costs of Flotation, Preliminary and Formation
Expenses.
APPLICATION FOR SHARES.
Applications for shares in Edie Creek Consolidated Gold Mining Leases No
Liability should be sent direct to the Company Secretaries, F. 1. W. Harrison, o.i
& Knox, 15 Bent Street, Sydney, or to the Company’s Brokers, Hattersley &
Maxwell, 115 Pitt Street, Sydney, and should be accompanied by a remittance or
5/- per share of the face value of the shares applied for.
No application will be received for less than 100 shares.
CONTRACTS.
The following Contracts have been entered into, and may be inspected at the
offices of the Company’s Solicitors:
July 14, 1927. Contract for sale between Edie Creek Gold Mining
J Leases, Ltd., and Norman Fitzmaurice Leslie as Trustee for
the Company.
EARLY APPLICATION WILL BE MADE FOR LISTING THE
SYDNEY AND OTHER RECOGNISED STOCK
SYDNEY, JULY 14. 1927.
COMPANIES
EXCHANGES.


15-Jewel
Silver “Fx & R” Wrist Watch,
Lever, £6/6/-
Silver
“Fx & R” Wrist Watch, 15-Jewel
Lever, £7
For the Fastidious Man
Wrist Watches
Of Distinctive Elegance.
Men of taste who give attention to
detail will welcome these New
Models of the “Fx & R” Watch.
It is scarcely necessary to mention
their absolute accuracy and reli-
ability, for the “Fx & R” Quality is
famous. They are guaranteed for
1 5 years, and will be kept in order
free of charge (breakages excepted)
for 12 months.
FAIRFAX & ROBERTS, LTD.,
The Oldest Jewellery House in Sydney, 23 and 25 Hunter Street.
PLAIN FIGURES CASH ONLY.
Ok
'The cen/ne of
Queens/anc/s
‘Distinguished
Social Life.
ħ
Magnificent Ballroom, Palm
Court, and Lounges at the
disposal of guests and their
friends at all times.
h
Suites tie Luxe —double and single Bedrooms, with Bath-
rooms attached. Hot and cold running water and Electric
Fans in every Bedroom, together with every modern con-
venience for the comfort of guests.
TELEGRAMS & CABLES — LENNONS , BRISBANE.
TELEPHONE CENT. 5780 (lO LINES).
PERSONAL
ITEMS
Roy Bagnall will be missing from the next
N. S. Wales Parliament: he failed to get
the Nationalist nomination for Ryde, a safe
suburban seat. Bagnall used to be a process
engraver on Sydney Evening News, but
Famous artist JOHN LONGSTAFF, just
appointed a trustee of the Vic. National
Art Gallery and Library.
left the fumes of the “block” room for the
thinner gases of Macquarie-street as a Labor
member under Holman. He followed his
leader in the conscription rumpus and held
oil longer than most of the Labor conscrip-
tionists —there are very few of them left in
Australia’s 13 Houses. He has a useful job
as secretary of the Australian Preference
League.
Basil Riley, the Times correspondent who
is reported to have poked his head into a ban-
dits’ nest in China, is a son of Archbishop
Riley of Perth. Young Riley has crowded
much adventure into his 34 years’ span. He
went from Oxford to France and a German
prison camp in 1914; tried educating
Mesopotamians after the Armistice; gave
that up as hopeless and took on the job of
teaching Americans in Columbia University.
Then he got in touch with David Fraser,
Dr. Morrison’s successor in Peking, since
when he has been reporting the Chines
troubles, which look as if they might tun
into a war one of these days.
Major-General Nevill Smyth, V.C., who
lives near Balmoral (Vic.), got his cross at
Omdurman. He commanded the Ist Aus-
tralian Infantry Brigade on Gallipoli and at
Pozieres; lie also led the 2nd Australian Div.
for a time and had the 59th Div. at the
liberation of Lille. Ten times lie was men-
tioned in despatches. The General’s father-
in-law was Osmond Williams, a baronet, who
died at Hamilton (Vic.) this year.
In the course of a legal rumpus over funds
raised for J. P. Dunn, of Sydney, when he
was standing for the Senate in 1925, Dunn
artlessly mentioned that he had sent tickets
for one entertainment to every member of
the Ministry and received in return a pro-
fusion of good wishes. Only two, McKell
and Willis, sent money. Perhaps the others
had in mind the dictum of a Scot who sat in
the Reps.: “Gie freely o’ guid wishes an’
seempathy—they cost naethin !”
Kent Hughes, who bagged the Kew seat
at last Vic. election in spite of the machine,
got the ear of the House the other night
when he said that the rights pedestrians had
in the traffic-congested streets were becoming
last rites. Rhodes’s young man must be
shaping well, as he was suggested as Whip
and sec. to the Nats. He said he would not
mind being secretary, but lie didn’t feel
sufficiently broken in for the rounding-up
part of the job.
David Featherby, the Indian Mutiny vet-
eran who came to light when Albert of York
visited Queensland, is by no means the only
survivor of the mutiny who found a domi-
cile in Bananaland. Ensign Robert Gray,
who was at the relief of Lucknow, braved the
terrors of the northern climate for nearly 50
years as owner of Ilughenden station in
N.VV. Queensland, retiring to live in England
just before the Big War. His ninetieth birth-
day, a few weeks ago, found him still going
strong.
Victoria’s most versatile sky pilot, Arch-
deacon Aickin, of Mornington and Dande-
nong, goes to the job of Dean of Melbourne.
The new Dean beat all England for a his-
tory prize at Oxford and won a prize for
poetry, which Matthew Arnold judged. He
dabbles extensively in art, music and archi-
tecture.
Dr. Jethro Brown has resigned as presi-
dent of the South Aus. Industrial Court; a
couple of long holidays failed to bring back
the health which deserted him in 1923. Most
learned of Wheat Staters, Jethro Brown had
a distinguished career at Cambridge and was
a law professor at Tas. Uni, Uni. College,
London, the Uni. College of Wales and Adel-
aide Uni. before becoming president of the
Industrial Court in 1916. No industrial
Judge has had less trouble, and employees
and employers alike regret that he will
adjust their differences no more.
David Mitchell survived his retirement
from the job of managing trustee of the old
Savings Bank of N.S.W. for 13 years. He was
70 when amalgamation with the Government
Savings Bank ended the career of the old
Barrack-street institution. His whole work-
ing life was spent with the Savings Bank;
he joined it when he was 18 years of age. His
hobby was music.
Becoming fervid in advocacy of a national
war memorial for Melb., ex-Premier Lawson,
a son of the manse, compared the Labor
Assemblymen who favor a utilitarian tribute
with the Pharisees who protested against
the bathing of the Master’s feet with pre-
cious ointment. The outburst caused some
little stir. The few old surviving members
recalled that Lawson spoke from or near the
seat he occupied when he was first elected in
1899; he was then the proud trophy of the
Opposition led by the late George Turner, as
lie had beaten at a by-election one of the
McLean Government Ministers (James
McCay, soldier and lawyer). Lawson had to
wait for a taste of office as long as Jacob
had for Rachel, but when he got it he held
on for a decade.
Walter Augustus Gale, Clerk of the House
of Reps., who died suddenly at Canberra last
week, aged 62, came of a stock that arrived
early in the Swan River settlement. His
elder brother Hepburn, who was Cue’s first
mayor in roaring ’94, claimed to be “the first
son of the first white woman born in W.A.,”
but his mother wasn’t quite the first, though
well up on the list. Walter went to Oxford
with a scholarship from St. Peter’s, Adel-
aide. but some temporary setback in the
family fortunes recalled him to Westralia
before he could complete his course. John
Forrest found him a steady job as an officer
in the Groperland Parliament, and when
Federation came along John —always a
sturdy barracker for his own subordinates —
procured him an even better post in the same
line at Melbourne. There Walter stayed,
with several rises in status and salary, until
Canberra probably proved too inclement for
a man never very robust. He was a cour-
teous and well-informed officer, popular
among members of every party.
DR. SUGDEN, Master of Queen’s, Mel-
bourne, who goes to England to deliver
the Fernley Lecture in connection with
the next Methodist Conference there.
Walter A. Gale had a quiet wit. A coun-
try member introduced a constituent to the
Clerk of the Reps, in the deserted chamber.
Said the visitor in an awed voice, “I suppose
you hear a lot here.” “Yes,” replied Gale,
“you hear a lot [pause] of talk here.”
Fred Chapman, paleontologist to the
National Museum, Melbourne, since 1902,
has. been made a Fellow of the Geological
Society, London. Thirty years ago he was
elected an Associate of the Linnean Society.
In addition to collecting indefatigably Chap-
man has written more than 400 scientific
papers during the last quarter of a century.
His dad was assistant to Professor Tyndall
in London, and he himself prepared micro-
scopic sections for the great Huxley.
Peter Goyen, an author painfully well
known to schoolboys all over the Empire—
he wrote about Algebra and English com-
position and such bright topics—passed out
at Dunedin (M.L.) the other day at 82.
Born in Cornwall, he went to Victoria when
15, and became a dominie. Fifty years ago
he got a call from Fernland to be an in-
spector of schools and he stuck at it for 30
years, winding up as chief inspector for
Otago. He was a member of the Royal Com-
mission that inquired into the Speck’s educa-
tion system.
A new cottage in Lidcombe, Sydney, stands
as a monument to a deed of heroism and a
young man’s gratitude. Harry Horam was
saved from drowning by Clarrie Hill, the
amateur cyclist, although Hill himself was
drowned. Horam. who is only 20, set to
work to raise sufficient money to purchase
a home for the parents of his rescuer, who
are invalids. It was handed over to the old
people the other day.
Captain Donald Mac Lean, who tells
robust pirate yarns from 3LOj was once
the Baptist parson at Murrumbeena (Vic.).
A recent newspaper article on “a third-
class passage in a P. & O. (Branch) liner”
won for him the offer of a job to tour
Maoriland lecturing on the co.’s behalf.
Bishop James Whyte, who wields the R.C.
crozier in Dunedin (M.L.), is revisiting N. S.
Wales. Whyte, a Kilkenny man, arrived in
Sydney 40-odd years ago, when Kilkenny men
were much prized in Australian R.C. circles,
He was a professor in the Cardinal’s College,
had a long spell as inspector of schools, and
then became chancellor of the archdiocese. He
went to Dunedin in 1918, when Bishop Ver-
don doffed the mitre.
Charles Strong celebrates in August the
52nd anniversary of his arrival in Mel-
bourne to take the pulpit of Scots Church,
Colhns-street. Nine years later, through
doctrinal differences, he broke out of the
Scotchbyterian fold, taking with him a con-
gregation of about 1000. The following
year he founded a church of his own and has
remained its pastor.
“Ex-Dig.”: Horatio Bottornley, of John
Bull notoriety, has slipped out of prison
with two years clipped off his sentence.
Horatio believed up to the last minute that
he would escape imprisonment; he con-
tended that he had committed a mere techni-
cal breach of law, and was thunderstruck
when the Judge frigidly murmured “Seven
years.” I remember seeing Bottornley at a
big billiard match. Inman had paused, con-
sidering a very bad “leave” by his oppo-
nent; Bottornley arose, approached the table
and gave the champion advice. As he walked
back to his seat he acknowledged with a nod
the remark, “He’s bound to win now; Bot-
tomley’s shown him how to do it.” He obvi-
ously accepted the sarcasm as a well-merited
tribute to his greatness.
Frank Clarke, president of Vic.’s Plush
House, told the young lions of the Con-
stitutional Club in Melbourne the other day
that winning a seat in Parliament was not
a matter of platform work, but rather of
wangling' the support of “influential men,"
and then conducting a house-to-house can-
vass. He was cynical enough to add that
he had known men to win seats who had
never gone on the platform; their committees
had been cute enough to keep them off the
perch. But he must have had in mind the
type he has met in his own Dreary House.
Deakin, Gillies, Wrixon, Service, Berry,
Shiels, Isaacs, Watt, Trenwith, Irvine, .lack
Murray, Bowser, Wynne, McPherson and
Argyle did not adopt the methods Clarke
suggests.
Colonel John E. It. Campbell, who would
be the possessor of Canberra to-day if the
Commonwealth Government had not taken
it over, lives in England, a hale man at 72.
His grandfather, the merchant trader Robert
Campbell, received a grant of 5000 acres at
’Berra as compensation for the seizure of
one of his ships bound for Sydney with a
cargo of corn, /in employee named Ainslie,
who had served at Waterloo, selected the
land for Campbell and Mount Ainslie com-
memorates the incident. George Campbell,
son of Robert and father of John, extended
the holding to 30,000 acres and was a famous
breeder of horses. His son fought with the
Warwickshire Regiment in the S’Afriean
war.
“Knib”: Time has not been kind to some
of the members of Vic. Assembly who have
renewed acquaintance with the Spring-street
building. Prendergast, Chief See., looks all
his 73 winters, but he was a very young 43
when the House first saw him. Peacock,
who had been in four Governments before he
changed from the Spring-street House to
the temporary law-factory at the Exhibition,
retains his youthful voice but has an elderly
mien. Ten and a half years’ of office, includ-
ing six years as Premier, have helped to dis-
illusion Lawson, but he has compensations—
a fine family, for instance. Toutcher has not
realised all his expectations, but he has kept
his seat and had a nibble at some of the
sweets. Bowser looks thinner and taller.
The REV. R. B. S. HAMMOND, Sydney's
most violent Cold Ten crusader—such
a good chap that THE BULLETIN believes
he carries the teetotal banner because
otherwise so many people would ask
him to “have one” that he would never
get home sober.
Having had a turn at the Premiership port-
folios in two other Cabinets, the Speaker-
ship and a knighthood, he bears his years
contentedly. The G.0.M., Downward, head-
ing for 81, who rowed in the Bent, Bowser
and Allan ministerial boats, is at peace with
the world. On him time has smiled plea-
santly.
THE WEATHER PROPHET.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“Mr. David Mares, the N.S.W. Meteorologist, is
frequently complimented in the press on his accurate
weather forecasts.” —From Johns’s “Who’s Who in
Australia.”
There’s a weather-sharp or -seer
Name o’ Mares,
Wise as Solomon or near,
Who prepares
Daily tips for storm or shine,
Wet and cold or warm and fine.
Reg’lar wizard in his line,
Ain’t you, MaresV
Rides the whirlwind, so to say,
Don’t you, Mares'?
Tracks the tempest on its way
Trust me, there’s
Little knowledge meteoro—
Logic ’scapes him apropos
Suns that scorch and winds that blow.
Is there, Mares'?
Over-cautious, some opine;
Canny Mares!
With the dame of Delphi’s shrine
Oft-times shares
A repute for dictum dark
And oracular remark.
“Facing-both-ways,” sneers the nark.
“Janus” Mares.
Can’t invariably call
C’rectly, Mares.
Being fallible, like all
Adam’s heirs.
Must go sometimes on the blind,
Fail the souglit-for pea to find
And discover nests —the kind,
Known as mares’.
Still unquestionably nicks,
Lucky Mares!
Rather more bouquets than bricks
And compares
Advantageously with most
Of the tell-what’s-coming host.
“Fine. Some showers along the coast.”
Thank you, Mares.
N.S.W.
MIDFORD.


ĥ
Us
/
7
("O*
uc^r\s
U 24t\i
o '
For rail motors, for instance, the idea!
solution of the bearing problem is: One
SKP Spherical Roller Bearing and one
Cylindrical Roller Bearing.
Free Lateral Displacement
is facilitated through the use of
Cylindrical Roller Bearings
The chief difference between the SKP design and that of other cylindrical
roller bearings lies in the contour of the outer race. The curved surface provided
allows of greater flexibility and, at the same time, an equal capacity with less
friction—less than the plain cylindrical design. This is primarily due to the elimi-
nation of the skew effect responsible for the generation of friction.
The bearing is capable of slight response to mis-alignment of the shaft, and during
rotation can move laterally under temperature or other forces.
SKF* carries a complete stock of Ball and Roller
Bearings of all International Standard Sizes.
SELF ALIGNING
BALL BEARING
FOR NORMAL LOAD!
ħ
h
SELF ALIGNING ROLLEZt
BEARING FOR HEAVY
WADS AND SEVERE DUTY
THE SKF BALL BEARING CO. LTD.
Melbourne: 595BourkeStreet.
Sydney: 45 King Street.
Adelaide: Wm. Adams & Cp* Ltd.
Brisbane: Wm. Adams & Co. Ltd.
Perth: Unbehaun & Johnstone
(W.A.) Ltd.
Launceston: W. H. Knight 6?
Peter Bros. Ltd.
Hobart: Charles Davis Ltd.
ĥ


The Federal Mutual
QQJTCTQD&k
Insurance Company of Australia, Limited.
FIRE, MARINE AND ACCIDENT.
Licensed to accept liability under Workmen’s Compensation Act 1020.
AGENTS WANTED.
Head Office: 129 l*itt Street, Sydney,
ft. RAWNSLEY MOSS, Managing Director.
Victorian Branch: 360-66 Collins Street, Melbourne.
H. L. CARROLL, Manager.
Queensland Branch: Federal Mutual Chambers, Queen Street, Brisbane.
NORMAN M. MAIR, Manager.
South Australian Branch: 36 Grenfell Street, Adelaide.
E. M. MINOGUE, Manager.
SUPPORT THIS PURELY AUSTRALIAN COMPANY.
R. A. MANZIE, General Manager.
ĥ
BOSTOCKS
WBmmSSmmk
POLISHES— PRESERVES—PREVENTS CRACKS
BOSTOCK’S Shoe Creams are made in all
principal shades, and especially noted for the
New Shade of Bois-de-Rose, Putty. Sunburn
and Oak.
Price 6J. psr tube. Obtainable Everywhere.
®>3i4
ABORIGINALITIES
MADE IN AUSTRALLA
BARNES-LINSEED OIL
“Mapee”: It is stated by “Paul C.” (B.
7/7/’27) that bushmen are able to find their
direction from the white-ants’ nests on trees,
all nests being on the southern side of the
tree. He did not say what part of Aus-
tralia he referred to. In S.-E. Queensland
exactly the opposite is the case. If Paul
travelled in a straight line from Brisbane
to Bundaberg, it would be a safe bet that
lie would not see one nest that was not
on the northern side of the tree.
“Pick” : It is only wasting time to hunt
up a white-ants’ nest to give one the points
of the compass in bushland. Because the
sun shines from the north, gum-trees more
readily shed their bark on that warmer side,
and the buttress of hanging bark is always
found more thickly to the south of their
trunks. On mountain sides that catch the
morning sun and evening shadows, the east-
ern foliage is always a shade lighter in
tinge than the western. In our part of the
planet the strongest gales blow’ from the
west. Slender saplings therefore invariably
have a bend towards the east and blown-
downi trees generally sprawl eastward. But,
anyhow, a bushman never needs the points
of the compass to show him his way. He
just knows where lie wants to camp, and
lobs there without guide or direction.
* *i* =1: *
“Dimon”: The grass-tree has always been
a good friend to Binghi. In the days of self-
reliance it was a treasure to young and old.
The long seed stem, when dry, was one of the
handiest materials for making fire by friction.
It was also used for spears, with a piece of
hardwood, bone or glass fastened to the
business end. But scores of the stems were
gathered for fireworks on hig gala nights,
and at other times for the amusement of the
piccaninnies. For crackers, the ends were
thrust into a fire for a little while, then
smacked hard on a thin-shelled hit of hollow
log, like a wooden drum. The noise thus
made was like that of a large hunger, being
the result of the explosive qualities of the
grass-tree gum. An imitation of rockets was
provided by throwing burning spears high
into the air with a womerah. Other pyro-
technics were fiery rainbows and primitive
Catherine wheels. When a camp was near
a clump of trees, the big grassy tops, which
are usually dry underneath, were set alight,
and burned like huge torches. The tops
soon grow again, and in summer-time the
trees, which in some parts arc called black-
boys, send out fresh seed stems of spear-licads.
* * * *
“J. McG.” : At Mena Murtie station, out
from Wilcannia (N.S.W.), a red-hot meteor-
ite fell through the roof of the back veran-
dah of rhe house, and broke through the
floor. A woman who happened to be. sit
ting in the verandah told me that the heat
it gave out was so great that she thought
for a moment the whole place would burst
into flames before help could be summoned.
It fell about four o’clock in the afternoon.
Its dimensions were Bin. by 4in. Has any-
one heard of one falling on a house before?
* -f
“The Welkin”: Bushmen who consider
that .they follow’ the methods of the abo.
when cooking, overlook one little detail
in Binghi’s kitchencraft. After the fire is
made and the coals are exposed, the article
REINFORCEMENTS.
BILL : “Wot’s yer idea in talcin’ on th’ cornet?”
STEVE: “Oh, th’ missus beats me every time with the bare voice.”
intended for roasting is dumped down by
the bushman on the; fire and allowed to be.
covered with ashes. Binghi invariably forms
a layer of grass-blades between his dinner
and "the fire and this protection is so burned-
on as to form a skin. A grass-skin is .cer-
tainly preferable to one of wood-ash.
* * * *
“X2X”: Research is being carried out at
Brisbane General Hospital into the poison
mechanism of the stonefish and the nature
of its venom. The
knowledge acquired
should prove of value,
especially in the north,
where cases of poison-
ing are fairly fre-
quent. All at present
known about the fish
is that its venom-
gland is situated some-
where near the base of
its tail and that it
injects the poison by
means of a hard spike.
The primary action of
the venom is to para-
lyse almost the whole
muscular system with-
in a few minutes,
while its secondary
action is believed to be
on the blood, causing
a disintegration of the
red corpuscles, and
producing indescrib-
able agony so great in
some cases as to bring the sufferer to the
verge of insanity. The victims are as a
rule skin divers and bcche-de-mer seekers.
* * * *
“Momokeni”: There are few folk who
know which part of a cassowary to choose
for a meal. The tit-bit is_ what is known
in a fowl as the oyster piece, and lies on
each side of the backbone above the thigh.
This was reputed to be Napoleon’s favorite
morsel of poultry. In a cassowary it weighs
anything from one to four pounds and is
as tender and juicy, when roasted, as an
undercut of beef, which it closely resembles.
If cut from an old bird it becomes quite
tender when well basted. This may be a
tip to any of the Abo. Council who have
hitherto regarded the emu, to which it also
applies, as a tough customer.
* $ * :J:
“Sea Nomad”: The windows of the big
lighthouses dotting the Queensland coast:
are regularly and scrupulously cleaned. If
that were not done they would be blurred
within a week by a film of fine dust from
the contact of countless moths’ wings. The
automatic lights which flash at regular in-
tervals are not so affected, because the
periodic spaces of darkness destroy the
attractive effect a steady light has for insects
and night birds. If the windows of a station-
ary light were, left uncleaned, the continued
accumulation of moth-dust would effectually
dim the light. In another way, though for-
tunately it rarely occurs, the tiny moth is
responsible for putting out completely the
automatic light. Though the sensitive light-
ing mechanism is guarded by an ingenious
contrivance, the moth occasionally gets inside
and flutters out the minute pilot light, thus
causing the gas-bursts to ignite and flash.
In this way the automatic light on Clarke
Island, where the Tasman recently grounded,
went out. Some time back the same kind
of insect stopped the light on Hammond
liock, near Thursday Island. The going
out of the light op Clarke Is. was reported
on several occasions, and the lighthouse
people rushed up a vessel, only to find that it
had been sent on a wild-goose chase. On
the third report they waited for confirmation
—and the Tasman confirmed.
* * # #
“W.W.”: Some years ago four shearers
left a western N. S. Wales shed for Cobar.
Two decided to go by road and the other
two to cut across country. The roadsters
reached Cobar without mishap and waited
in vain for their mates. In the meantime
an overseer on one of the stations found
two swags with water-bottles on a fence
and reported the fact to the police, with the re-
sult that the swags and bottles were identified as
belonging to the missing men ; but the owners
could not be found. Some years afterwards
a number of rams were being driven across
a paddock near where the swags were found.
The morning was hot and some of the rams
rushed under a wilga-tree. The dogs failing
to get them out, the stockman had to go
in under the branches, and there he found
two skeletons. , They were only a quarter
of a mile from a tank.
* * * *
“Werrimee”: The crow is not without
friends in his own country. With some he
even finds favor as a cage bird. There is
a good trade done in crows by one Sydney
bird-seller ; the purchasers are mostly folk who
lean towards oddities. A few buy the sable
bird with the idea that he makes a good
talker if his tongue is split. The average
countryman has no compliments to bestow on
Waligan; when he sees or hears one his
sole desire is to get hold of a gun. In some
districts the destruction of the crow is a
profitable business, for the P.P. boards pay
from 3d. to Is. for the head, and many
Chinese give about, a shilling for the gall,
to which they attribute great medicinal vir-
tues. While I was camped once near a
Chinaman’s garden at Adavale (Q.), the
Chink brought m e a gun and three cartridges.
“Spose I lendee you gun, you _shoot.ee clow, ’
he said. “I give you shillin’.” “All right,
I agreed, “leave the gun, and I’ll shoot him
when he comes.” I got two ducks with part
of the ammunition, and when I returned
him one cartridge with the crow lie was
immensely pleased. “You welly goo’ shot,
he said. “I shootee tlee, four tain, no
hittee.”
(Continued on page 27.)
THE TRAVELLED AUSSIE.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
I’ve sat in great cathedrals in far-off coun-
tries where
The organs rolled their music deep and
solemn on the air.
’Twas glorious, uplifting, yet in my heart
I know
The wind among the she-oak leaves a-whisper-
ing soft and low
For me holds secret music which those
organs seemed to lack.
But of course I’m just an Aussie from a
homestead way outback.
I’ve heard the grand choirs singing till the
mighty volume swept
Like a tide across my senses —yet all the
while there crept .
Into my soul a longing for something dim
and far,
The music of the mopoke, weird beneath the
rising star.
I know no note; that’s sweeter, as it drifts
upon the breeze,
But of course I’m just an Aussie from a
homestead ’mongst the trees.
I’ve seen the wondrous paintings in storied
galleries,
And known the world holds nothing that’s
so superb as these.
And yet I’ve found them wanting, for never
artist’s brush
Can paint the scenes I gaze on when in
the scrubland’s hush
The sun . behind the gum-trees sinks crimson-
flamed to rest.
But of course I’m just an Aussie from a
homestead in the West.
I hate the sham of town life, with its mirth
that seems pretence ;
I’d rather hear the jackass out on my old
wire fence.
Oh townsfolk, keep your worries, your rolls
of tape so red —
TREATIN’ ’EM FAIR.
OFFSIDER : “Some of the pears are goin’ rotten, guv’nor.”
BARROWMAN : Aw right! Make it up to ’em—put in twelve to th’ dozen.”
A roll of good old binder-twine hangs in my
straw-thatched shed.
Keep your gaieties and movies and your
“possies” soft and “cush,”
I leave them unregretting for my homestead
in the Bush.
S.A.
NITA 0. THOMPSON.


r %, f '&
n - 1 .#
Hi
IP 7YR£S
m
&
■ -
'' W! ® ■ ■
Mrs. G. Sandford
Miss S. Christie
SRI S BANE.
What two women
oi\ a Dunlop-shod
Essex Coach did!
The longest Transcontinental motor trip
—in the history of Australian motoring—
has just been completed by two New
Zealand ladies, Mrs* G. Sandford and Miss
S. Christie, they having driven from
Sydney to Fremantle, back to Adelaide,
thence across the Continent to Darwin,
and back again via Adelaide to Melbourne.
Unaccompanied and in a closed car
they successfully negotiated the many
difficulties associated with a long trip
of this description. When one considers
the fact that, with camp equipment,
food, etc. the car weighed practically
TWO TONS then one realizes what the
DUNLOP
TYRES
had to withstand on this gruelling trip
into some of the roughest and wildest
parts of Australia. Upon arrival in
Sydney Mrs. Sandford will have finished
up her unique and adventurous
11,000 miles drive
and the Original Set of Australian-
made Dunlops has carried her
right through the strenuous
Transcontinental undertaking.
* ★ ★
They were not specially made
tyres for the trip just our
standard high-grade covers and
tubes that are available to all
motorists through Garages.
★ * ★
DUNLOP RUBBER CO. OF AUST. LTD.
All States and N.Z.
DUNLOP' and you will be satisfied J
..... ....
m
m
m ■
■
1
m
mm
The first closed car to be seen in Darwin. The car was
stuck at this wash-out for 30 hours.
I
H
Iggp**
I ■
Photograph of one of the original four Dunlop tyres that was continuously used
throughout this gruelling test—and the other three are in an equally good condition .


SO miles per hour
5 tO 2S miles in Bseconds
Endurance and Economy
Chrysler ‘‘so”
Tourer
Coupe « Two Seater
Coach « Saloon
The only full-sized car in the world that gives
these values at so low a price—
Full-Sized, Sturdy Construction With Ample
Seating Capacity For 5 Adult Passengers. Mohair
plush upholstery. Chrysler smartness and beauty
of line and colour. Full balloon tyres. Low-swung
bodies with more than usual road clearance.
Special spring front engine mounting.
Economical —Low consumption of fuel and oil.
1
fl
»jaaiaa.ia
CHRYSLER
//
BUILT A.S ONLY CHRYSLER BUILDS
AUSTRALIAN AND NEW ZEALAND DISTRIBUTORS.
N.S.W.: Larke Neave & Carter Ltd., Grenville House, William Street, Sydney.
Vic : Collins Motors Pty., Ltd., Chrysler House, Collins Street, Melbourne .
Old ■ Ward Motors Limited, Wickham Street, Brisbane.
Sth Aust.: O. T. Rodda Motors Ltd., Flinders Street, Adelaide.
West. Aust.: William Attwood, 299-301 Murray Street, Perth.
Tas.: Distributors Pty., Ltd., 162 Collins Street, Hobart.
N.Z.: Todd Motor Company, 97 Courtenay Place, Wellington.
h


The Australian Provincial Assurance Association Limited
HEAD OFFICE: 77 KING STREET, SYDNEY.
Directors: Messrs. EDMUND S. W. PAUL (Chairman), ALEX. KING, Dr. E. MORRIS HUMPHERY, Senator J. D. MILLEN, and WM. NORTHAM.
Total Assets exceed. . .. .. £1,724,000
BRANCHES: Melbourne, Brisbane, Adelaide, Perth, Hobart. NEW ZEALAND: Wellington, Auckland, Christchurch, Dunedin.
SOME REASONS WHY YOU SHOULD INSURE WITH THE A.P.A.:
(1) Because in the event of total disablement for life all future premiums
will be paid by the Association and no deduction made from policy or
bonuses.
(2) Hospital Benefits are given with every Life Policy applicable to public
and private hospitals, varying in amount according to the sum assured
and no deduction made from policy or bonuses.
(3) In the event of loss of eye or limb through accident, a quarter of the
sum assured will be paid forthwith, and the premium reduced propor-
tionately.
(4) PERSONAL ACCIDENT and Combined Benefit Policies provide for
almost every contingency.
GKO. PEACOCK, F.C.1.5., Secretary.
NO EXTRA PREMIUM IS CHARGED FOR THESE BENEFITS:
Probate, Children’s Education and Finance Policies specialised.
Applications for Agencies invited from men of integrity.
T. W. RAPLEY, General Manager.
“Ilerodot”: In 1907 the barque Colonial
Empire loaded a cargo of wheat in Sydney
for England and after she had been dis-
charged at her destination the sound of
squeaking was heard amongst the timbers
used for dunnage. Investigation showed that
it came from some young rabbits, and a
further search brought to light 14. The
theory wms advanced that they had come
from a doe which in some way had got
among the cargo just before giving birth to
a litter. But no doe yet born has pro-
duced 14 babies in one consignment.
WHO WOULDN’T?
“Wonderful the way them camels can go without water.”
“What’s wonderful about it?”
“Wingella”: I have never come across
fish smelling of iodoform (B. 26/5/’27), but
have found mushrooms heavily tainted with
it. They grew in open pasture, and the
first few lots gathered were delicious; but
at the end of a few days the rest were un-
eatable. I cooked some, but the smell of
iodoform was sickening; the house reeked
with it.
“Fitz”: Kangaroos are not afraid to take
a dip in the briny. Some observers on the
outside beach at North Shore, Port Mac-
quarie (N.S.W.), recently saw a well-grown
kangaroo come hopping down the sand and
enter the surf. Having had a good plunge,
he came out, shook himself vigorously and
re-entered the surf, this time penetrating
to the second line of breakers. When he
came out again lie had another good shake
and a scratch, then made for the bush.
* * * *
“Rossy”: Old Bill Fisher, still Johnnie
Walkering along the Darling, owns two
horses, and he never seeks a job. “Got to
look after me ’orses!” he tells you. They
are always in good condition, as the old
man won’t leave a patch
of feed till he is forced
to get on to the nearest
station for his bit of
rations. Any good patch
of grass will pull him up,
for all directions are the
same to Bill. His saddles,
both riding and pack, are
held together by string
and green hide. The old
chap will roll out of his
blankets in the middle of
the night if lie doesn’t
hear the bell to see why
they are not feeding. At
Willow Point station he
was once offered the use
of traps and free cyanide.
Poxes were plentiful and
their skins worth about
15s. each. Old Bill
would not take on the job.
“Your grass ain’t good
enough,” lie said. “I’m going out to the
Woodlands boundary where the grass, they
tell me, is knee high.” Next morning he
was gone.
* * * *
“Bluey”: If “Adamascus” (B. 30/6/'27)
wants to see a goapna descend a tree, let
him come to the Manning River (N.S.W.)
when the laughing jackasses are nesting. I
have often seen my dog chase one up a tree and
presently heard jack’s warning cry. Woe
betide the go. that didn’t make all speed
for the ground, for jack flew at him with
full force. I have seen a goanna knocked
six feet from the side of a tree by the
kookaburra’s assault. Sometimes they will
dodge the blow, and jack himself hits the
tree with considerable force. I have some-
times wondered that he did not get hurt,
so recklessly does he charge.
“Pfella”: The reason why “Adamascus”
has never seen a goanna descend from a
tree (B. 30/6/’27) is because the brutes
don’t come down via the trunk; they drop.
A go. will only tree itself as a last resort;
he depends on lightning speed for safety.
Come unexpectedly upon one and you will
certainly see the beggar streak for the nearest
big tree and climb the first few feet on
your side, then claw round out of view.
He will drop back to the ground the moment
he is concealed and bolt off again, but not
so far as to prevent him seeing a mystified
beholder walking round and round the tree
straining his eyesight in searching the
branches. A dog will tree a go. quicker
than anything else, but the reptile knows
the limitations of the barker, and will last
out a siege not more than four feet above
the attacker. In heavily-timbered country
I have seen goannas spring from the low-
hanging branches of one tree to another and
never miss a grip.
* * * *
“Gougcr” ; Along portions of the Northern
Territory shore, in the quiet bays and pas-
sageways where under the water grow’ fields
of luscious seagrass, stand structures look-
ing most eerie in the moonlight. They are
built of gaunt poles and cross-pieces, like
twisted snakes above the water, with spacing
which all but the most sure-footed Would
fall through. These are the dugong houses
NOT IN THE BOOKS.
THE KID ( reproachfully ): “Dad, you never taught me that. I’ve learned how to trot,
and how to canter, but you never taught me how to bolt.”
and upon their poles humped-up natives
squat, peering all night into the water.
These stagings are built over the particular
seagrass that constitutes the dugongs’ luxury.
On their flimsy structures the sentries hear
the dugongs grunting in wallowing play,
like a mob of air-puffing whippet submarines.
Presently a beast glides beneath the staging,
when straight down is flung the heavy wawp
and a harpoon is fast in the shiny black
body. The dugong dives in a whirlpool of
waves as the coir whizzes out. The end
of the long rope is lashed to a floating log
or to a canoe filled with eager hunters.
Inshore there are. generally, other canoes
waiting, and as the wild song of triumph
floats out they are rushed into the water
and the chase begins. The dugong is a
hefty creature, and occasionally overturns
a canoe before numerous spears secure him
for the cooking-fires.
$ »!•
“Bad Australian’’: I note that “Tassie”
(B. 14/7/’27) agrees as to t.lie impenetra-
bility of the horizontal scrub of the Speck’s
West Coast, but differs from me on minor
details. When I was in “the horizontal”
in the ’nineties we always used a heavy,
razor-edged, long-handled slasher. We car-
ried an axe as well, but it was sheer waste
of time and energy to use it on the laterals
and runners of the scrub and undergrowth,
as they had not sufficient resistance for
effective cutting. Speaking with a full
knowledge of the subject, I say that it is
feasible to construct not only a pack-track,
but a road capable of carrying the heaviest
timber traffic, over horizontal scrub.
* * =!= *
“Roka”: “Prop” (B. 23/6/’27), who heard
his dog’s feet rustling the grass after the
animal was dead, reminds me. We had a
big black Newfoundland which, after swim-
ming in a near-by creek, used to race home
and shake itself vigorously. Some time
after the dog’s death my brother said he
had heard the shaking sound several times,
but nobody paid much attention to his story.
One night when I was alone in the house, I
heard it myself—a dog padded across the
floor and shook himself, quite close to me.
In all I heard the ghost-dog three times.
Then, just as we bad decided that the
room was haunted, the sounds ceased, and
though we lived in the house for 10 years
afterwards they were not heard again.
* * * *
“Tongio West” : The musical instruments
of the Solomon Islanders are, in my opinion,
ahead of some of the negroid atrocities be-
loved of jazz “musicians.” A Solomon Island
jew’s harp, made from a piece of bamboo,
with a narrow groove in the centre, would,
if introduced, delight the youngsters, at all
events. A string is passed over the groove;
the end is placed against the mouth, and
the jerking of the string vibrates it and pro-
duces strange musical sounds. Native pipes
of Pan are also popular. These are com-
posed of small, hollow lengths of bamboo,
lashed together by strands of fibre, with fibre
streamers attached to the ends. Then there
is the native flute: a thick piece of bamboo
three feet long, hollowed out, but with the
ends closed. Each flute has four holes, one
five inches from the top for the musician’s
mouth ; another hole is for the first finger
of the right hand ; the other two are close
together at the opposite end. A band com-
posed of these instruments would be more
endurable than some jazzy combinations I
have heard.
* * * *
“Raja”: There are no alligators in Aus-
tralia. The croc, and ’gator belong to the
same family; but there are marked differ-
ences between the two. The alligator is
found only in South America and parts of
China. The crocodile has a much broader
snout than his Chink relative and the fourth
tooth from the end of the jaw protrudes
in much the same way as in a bulldog. In
the alligator these canines are hidden in
recesses in the snout. If “Up North” (B.
7/7/’27) stops the next “alligator” he meets
and examines its teeth carefully, he will find
it a crocodile.
* * * *
“Carisbrook Junr.” : Tommy was proud of
his family, and every week-end took Mary
and. the kids out for a buggy ride to the
neighboring native camp. Of the six young-
sters only one was full-black, the others
ranging from a dusky copper to nearly white.
“Why aren’t all your kids the same color
as you, Jacky?” he was asked as they lined
up in the buggy. “Well, boss,” he replied,
“one pfeller day I bin go in for te bun race,
and get covered with flour. Mine tinkit he
never rub out since.”
* * * *
“Wingella”: Did “Wandi’s” abo. (B.
19/5/’27) want the goanna for the dogs or
for himself? As a rule, every goanna the
niggers up here (N.T.) can spy is reckoned
good tucker, and the dogs get only what
their masters discard. A number of white
folk, too, consider goanna the daintiest dish
they know. Once a city man who had issued
stern orders against being served with any
“filthy bush tucker” complimented me highly
on the delicious meal of “curried chicken”
I had served him. If he had seen me pre-
paring that goanna
* * * *
“ J.H.S.”: The common belief is that a
snake twines round a tree like a climbing
vine. Such is not the case. While a wrig-
gler follows a spiral course in doing his
shinning-up journey, he does not encircle
the trunk of a tree 30ft, in height more
than twice, his body being at full length
and moving in the same way as when in
motion over the ground. The downward
passage .is made head-first to within five
or six feet of the ground, when the slitherer
as a rule lets go and tumbles the rest of
the distance. If a tree has drooping branches
that come to within eight or ten feet of the
ground, wrigglers of the lighter orders let
themselves down from the leaves, hitting
the ground with a soft thud.
JOE HAS HIS SAY.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
"Now. Jack, old chap,” I says to ’im, “I’ll
put it straight an’ square;
Do you,” I says, "as man to man. consider
that is fair?"
'K seen ’e couldn't come the bluff—-I ’ad
’im on ’is pat.
“Well, no,” ’e starts, and I says, “Right,”
and let it go at that.
No. I don’t beat about the bush ; what I
’ave got to say
I say it quick and lively like, and that’s the
proper way.
It ain’t no use to back and fill. I always
let ’em see
It’s waste of time to try and put a roughie
up on me.
I tell you straight, from what I see, these
’eads is all the same;
And I’ve been through the flamin’ mill, I
ought to know their game.
They like a bloke to kid to them, that seems
to make ’em pleased.
But I don’t want their blanky jobs—my
straps is always greased.
I’ve knocked about a tidy bit, and there
ain’t much I miss,
It’s all an open book to me, and I can tell
you this:
Don’t matter .just ’ow good you are, or when
or where you lob,
The bloke with ’air upon ’is chest don’t get
no easy job.
But they can go to ’Ell for mine, too flamin’
right they can;
I’ll see ’em there before I crawl or smoodge
to any man.
I’ve never done it yet and now it’s just a
bit too late,
And I ain’t quite forgot the way to roll
me six-by-eight.
My oath ! I put it to ’im straight; I reckon
that ’e knew
That ’e was listenin' to a bloke who wised
a thing or two,
And ’e can take it ’ow ’e likes. Who’s ’e?
And anyway
The blanky job's no good to me if I can’t
’ave me say.
W.A.
OSCAR WALTERS.


His
Sale
at top values is
our work at the
yards. We are Fat
Stock Salesmen.
ĥ
Through the facilities provided, the attention given
to business, and the energy and skill extended in
selling consignments, full market prices are invari-
ably obtained by Winchcombe-Carson senders.
Consign Cattle, Sheep, Lambs to
WINCHCOMBE, CARSON
LTD,
Homebush Yardft, or Enoggera Yards,
Sydney. Brisbane.
[l
EDGEWORTH
HIGH GRADE
SMOKINC TOBACCO
Australian Agents: R. TOWNS & CO., SYDNEY.
Cbe Equitable Cite
Hssce.
c a
<3 *
£oy.
Australasia EM.
Head Office:
Parbury House, Eagle Street, Brisbane.
Branches:
N.S.W.: VICTORIA:
84 Pitt St., Sydney. 360 Collins St., Melb.
Transacts Probate, Life Endowment, Com-
bined Benefits (All Sickness ) Assurance.
{Vacancies for Producers with good records.)
FRTCDK, LEVY, Mg. Director.
THE MAN
ON THE LAND'S
PAGE
SAVING SHEEP FROM DROUGHT.
"8.T.” : “C.J.II.’s” silage scheme crops up
regularly every drought. Rut except in
certain farming districts where the sheep-
owner possesses the necessary plant and
knowledge, it is hopelessly impracticable.
Used in this connection, the term “insurance”
is misleading.
The cost of saving a sheep’s life by means
of relief country, purchased feed, or stored
up silage varies with the length and severity
of the drought, but it rarely pans out at
less than half the animal’s market value,
and frequently amounts to the whole of it, and
a bit more. If, however, the sheep-owner
could, by paying a reasonable annual pre-
mium, be sure of being able to secure fodder
at a minimum rate, if or when he required it,
the case would be very different. If droughts
are correctly considered national calamities,
then a national move to counteract them may
be logically called for. Not by limiting the
number of stock in the country to the reserves
of individually stored silage, as “C.J.H.”
suggests, but by the accumulation in times
of plenty and glutted markets of sufficient
fodder to meet the demand of the inevit-
able drought.
As to the most suitable article, opinions
will very naturally differ. VVliat light-horse-
man has forgotten sucre-paille, the finer grade
of tibbin (crushed straw) dipped in a solu-
tion of molasses? The straw of this country
mostly goes up in smoke, and the molasses
into the ocean. Reinforced by a modicum
of grain and several of the ingredients to
be found in the many “licks” now on the
market, sucre-paille could be experimented
with till a cheap and effective fodder was
evolved.
A directorate of practical men presided
over by a John Higgins, freed from political
influence, legislatively armed, and provided
with the sinews of war, should be equal to
the task of accumulating the required reserve
of the most suitable article and retailing it
at the lowest possible price when necessary.
To raise the wind, tax racing. The resultant
din from the pony courses and stadiums would
be soon drowned by exultant baa-ing from
the back country.
DROUGHT PROVISION.
“Gill Guy”: When I read “C. J.H.’s”
statement of the case for the unfortunate
drought-stricken stock, I remembered a stack
of splendid wheaten hay grown at Nundora
station, 250 miles west of the Darling at
Louth. Occasionally it rains out there, and
following a mild flood this crop was put in
on a creek flat. No more rain fell during
the growing period, but the ground retained
sufficient moisture to bring that crop to a
stage where it cut excellent hay. I have
seen hundreds and hundreds of thousands
of drought-stricken stock, during a life’s
experience in the bush, dying on their home
runs, or travelling and dying in search of
grass; and in very case they came off country
with better facilities for growing hay than
Nundora.
I will join with “C.J.H.” and give evidence
before any inquiry that the suffering of
stock in drought periods can be eliminated,
and I can suggest some other witnesses. One
would bo A. T. Creswick, whose efforts to
cut out drought losses have come under my
notice. Our newest pastoral knight, Graham
Waddell, could be asked, too, whether it is
a fact that no animal starves to death on
his country, no matter what sort of season
it is.
A MULGA-CUTTING MACHINE.
“FY7”: In Queensland, where scrub-
cutting is too often the last resort of the
grazier for keeping his sheep alive, the heavy
cost of hand-cutting frequently offsets the
value of the feed. In addition, the old
felling method destroys the trees. In s.-w.
Queensland, where there are large areas of
mulga, this has been particularly noticeable,
for a patch once cut out never got a chance
again, stock keeping it down. Now a trac-
tor specially fitted for breaking down the
mulga has come into use, and is proving
effective and economical. It is fitted with
three bumper-bars in front of a steel-plated
radiator, while two projecting side-bars pre-
vent the brush spreading sideways from the
weight of the tractor. The mulga is levelled
enough for the sheep to reach it, but less than
25 per cent, of the trees are killed by the
machine, the balance continuing to send out
growth normally. Trees up to 44in. diameter
are flattened easily, and in thick mulga,
averaging 2Mn., one user of the machine
has in 10 hours rolled down enough to feed
5000 sheep for two days, the machine doing
five men’s work. As to costs, one man can
feed 7000 sheep a week at a cost of £5, in
addition to his wages. The same work,
done by hand, would call for live axemen
and a cook at a minimum of £25 per week.
MOTOR-TRANSPORT OF SHEEP.
“Kobbi”: “Matrix” (B. 7/7/’27) is wrong
in assuming that Sol Green’s experiment
in North-West Queensland proves that motor-
transport of sheep is a washout. Solomon’s
attempt to shift 19,000 sheep from Bedourie.
a distance of 300 miles, failed; but why?
Here are the reasons:—
(1) All the sheep were ewes on the point
of lambing, and some actually lambed during
the trip.
(2) The sheep were carried standing up,
so that many fell and were smothered;
while others, because they were in lamb,
suffered much injury.
(3) Vehicles used were of different types,
some travelling at 25 miles per hour and
others at 15. They didn’t keep together
so that all the men in charge could be of
assistance when any lorry got into diffi-
culties.
In a case where those pitfalls were avoided
the result was entirely successful. W. A.
Russell, of Jimbour, Dalby (Q.), shifted
6000 full-wool wethers from Listowel Downs
to Nardoo, near Cunnamulla, s 210 miles,
packing the sheep in a sitting-down position.
This prevents physical strain, smothering or
“gas”-ing. His first idea of using a trailer
25 feet long, the front only of which rested
on a turntable on the motor-truck, was
abandoned as unsuitable; but his prompt
design of a crate built wholly on to a high-
powered truck, giving 16 inches between
“the decks” instead of 19 inches in the
trailer scheme, was entirely successful. The
total loss en route and after delivery did
not exceed 3 per cent., even allowing, for
S 5 sheep killed outright by a capsize of one
of the trucks.
SALEYARD TIPS.
“Two Seas”: Don’t expect sheep to cut
as much wool in the shed as they do in the
yards. Auctioneers are incurable optimists.
If you are curious to know why one yard
is packed elmckablock with sheep for no
apparent reason, examine their eyes. The
owner may be a humane man who doesn’t
like to give blind animals a chance of butting
their heads against the rails.
If there’s “an odd broken-mouthed sheep in
the yard” look for him, and if you find him
too often, look for something else.
When you start to bid for a yard, don’t
continue until you and the auctioneer are
singing a duet.
If he gets “on the rocks,” don’t throw him
a line. He’ll probably get off without your
assistance.
Stand off sheep whose skins denote that
they are badly in need of pink pills.
If you hardly know a good sheep from a
hairy goat, follow the bidding of the man
who does. It may cost you a few pence
more to outbid him, but you get the benefit
of liis experience cheaply.
CORNER YARDS FOR MARKING
LAMBS.
“Bluegong”: “Waimea” (B. 7/7/’27), in
his description of temporary lamb-marking
yards, tells us that “the sheep are driven
quietly towards the corner across the hes-
sian.” How does he do it? Does he paint
the hessian green to look like grass, or does
he use a decoy? I shouldn’t like the job of
driving a mob of ewes and lambs over a strip
of hessian into the yard, and I think most
sheepmen will agree with me that, if you
want the mob to break, that’s the best way
to start them.
As an improvement I suggest a roll of
netting at each end of the line of posts, ready
to be run out to the middle behind the mob.
The netting could be unrolled and
tied to the posts almost as quickly as
the hessian could be put up, and would be
far more secure. It should be tied to the
inside of the line of posts. Apart from the
problem of yarding the sheep, it is a good
plan to use temporary yards so that, if one
corner of the paddocks becomes infected with
tetanus, the yards can be put up somewhere
else, whereas with permanent yards it would
mean either abandoning them or asking for
trouble. It is quite a common thing for
yards to become infected.
DROVERS ON SHEEP TRAINS.
“Prop”: Queensland railways will give a
pass to only one drover in charge of each
consignment of sheep, uuless the consign-
ment occupies more than one train. This is
not sufficient, particularly with w.eak-cou-
ditioued sheep. I have travelled with sheep
many times, mostly fats for Ilomebush, and
found the first 50 miles to be a most
strenuous stage for the drover, as before the
sheep find their train legs they get down in
heaps, piled one ou the other, and to get
them on their feet before they smother is
hard 'work with only half a dozen trucks of
fat strong sheep. When weak stores are to
be handled six trucks would be all one man
should be responsible for. A trainload of,
say, 2800 sheep, taking 16 trucks (the mini-
mum for a special), should be allowed three
drovers.
STRAWBERRY CLOVER.
“Leo Lear”: Subterranean clover, lately
praised on our page, is a winter fodder,
coming with the first autumn rains, and
grows well on poor, gravelly banks. Let me
advertise also strawberry clover, which is a
summer feed, thriving on wet, heavy soils.
This plant first appeared in the ’eighties
on the Tarwin River flats in Gippsland, and
has spread over most of the Victorian coast
land, where formerly rushes and useless rank
growth predominated. It has enriched hun-
dreds of landholders, keeping up the milk
yield well through the summer, and topping-
off trucks of fats for the city markets.
To propagate, press roots into the soft
mud about a yard apart; after these once
set seeds a top-dressing of super will in a
few years give a solid mat of strawberry.
It will grow under water during early spring,
so you can’t drown it. Understock if pos-
sible until the vegetable gets a proper hold.
Sheep especially will not give it a chance to
spread.
Strawberry clover is a great lover of the
sea and thrives almost lapped by the waves,
so all coastal farmers should give it a trial.
FLUKE.
“Gill Guy”: Fluke has been given the
K.O. by carbon tetrachloride. The result of
administering 1 c.c. of this drug in a capsule
or in 4 c.c. of medicinal paraffin oil is that
inside one week all adult flukes in the worst
infested liver are killed and passed out.
From my own recent experience, old, bottled
ewes, killed 48 hours after dosing, were
found to have no live flukes in the liver. The
gall bladder was full of fluky gall and fluke
remnants.
The use of carbon tetrachloride is well
past all experimental stages and is safe,
cheap and thoroughly effective. The genuine
drug must be obtained —no carbon bisulphide;
and kerosene shouldn’t be used in place
of medicinal paraffin. Given with paraffin
it is best administered with a syringe, as
the small dose and oily nature prevent it
flowing readily down the ordinary tin
drencher.
The capsule can be given with a pair of
long-handled forceps. Just release when well
back on the tongue. As the drug may not
kill all the very young flukes in the liver, and
the sheep are usually returned to the pad-
docks from which they picked up the para-
sites and will be sure to get another supply,
dose again in three to four weeks. Late
summer is the season in which to get busy.
FOOT-ROT.
“Leo Lear” : No doubt soil has something
to do with foot-rot, as “W. 8.” says (B.
•”0/6/’27), but there are other reasons. In
my experience foot-rot has been confined to
merino or fine comebacks, and almost always
when running on heavy soil. Another factor
has been rank green feed and rich English
grasses. Once footrot occurs it spreads very
rapidly and takes months to work itself out.
It probably is due to a germ that enters the
split hoof. The foot isn’t the first part to
he affected, either. Observant sheepmen will
notice that a sheep looks pinched and has a
high temperature before the hoof starts to
rot. Vagaries of the season also affect the
disease, which supports a germ theory.
The most effective cure in individual cases
is first to cut away and clean the hoof (gar-
den secateurs will sever the hard substance
that a knife won’t look at) ; then dip the
foot in a mixture of 2oz. of arsenic and 2oz.
of bluestone to the gallon of water. The foot
may then be brushed with Stockholm tar.
Largo mobs of slightly diseased sheep may
be run slowly through a 20ft. wooden trough
containing enough of the above mixture to
cover the hoofs. But don’t put bluestone mix-
ture in a tin. The chemical will quickly per-
forate it.
WHAT IS DAISY’S AGE LIMIT?
“Strawberry” : What is the extreme limit
of a milking cow’s age? So far, 25 years has
been, accepted as a fair thing, given favorable
circumstances. Now neighbors are discussing
the case of a milking shorthorn which has
just died at Boonah (Q.) at the age of 33.
She was in the hands of the same family all
the time, so there is no doubt about the
figures, and She had constantly supplied her
owners with milk for five and twenty years,
going over to the Drys only six years ago.
She was bred from a local dairy herd.
FERTILITY OF SOILS.
“Burrum”: Another point in the argument
that fertility, as far as chemical analysis
goes, isn’t everything in growing crops is
the ease or difficulty in obtaining a good
start off or “stand” in the young crop—
timeliness of sowing, in short. The right
time for sowing may extend over a few days
only, crop sown in that period being superior
to that sown before or after. A soil may
have all the chemicals necessary for a full
crop, but be of such a nature that it is
impossible to obtain a good mulch seed-bed.
Such recalcitrant soils may have their physi-
cal conditions improved generally in two
ways—by liming and by green manuring.
And both these methods better the condition
for a vigorous increase in bacterial activity.
“A.E.8.” mentions (B. IG/(5/’27) that “in
the past we have systematically starved our
invisible helpers.... and we must turn from
the chemical to the bacteriological view-
point.” In that he is wrong. If we have
chemically starved, as he hints, the azobac-
teria, it is only common sense to replace their
food or proper environment before inoculat-
ing with bacteria of the same type as were
previously starved out. The natural way
is the best way. And if we grow bigger
crops than nature ever would, then we must
multiply preparations for that crop in natu-
ral proportions and ways.
LOCAL FERTILISERS.
“Tongio West”: The example set by
farmers in the Cororooke (Vic.) district of
utilising all possible local resources might
well be followed elsewhere. The shores of
Lake Corangamite are generally covered with
deposits of tiny shell-fish. For many years
these were left untouched, till the vogue of
feeding shell-grit to poultry started. Local
farmers with poultry-runs found this fine
grit infinitely superior to the coarse sea-
shore variety; and now it is used far and
wide.
Three or four years ago a resourceful
local farmer tried using this shell on his
land, instead of sending to Melbourne for
manure; and his yields increased from Ito
tons per acre. Now all use it, both as a
fertiliser for cultivated paddocks and for top-
dressing grazing land. Joe Robinson, of
Eurackj, the top-dressing pioneer of the dis-
trict, has gained many converts just by writ-
ing their names on their paddocks with top-
dressing material, and letting the letters show-
up in grass after rain.
Cororooke farmers, hard-hit by the low-
price of onions, now find that it pays to
feed their onions to cattle and sheep, in
preference to flooding the markets; the milk
yield is greatly increased, while all kinds
of stock improve greatly in condition.
TREES ON STOCK ROUTES.
“Prop” : It’s time something was, done to
protect green trees on stock rout.es. All
through the back country of N.S.W. and Q.
are convenient camping places where stock
may be held at midday or night. A few years
ago there were trees by these that would
shade a man and his beast, but now at every
visit to these camping sites the trees are
found to be fewer. There is no hope of
fresh trees coming from seed, as the travel-
ling sheep will always eat or tread out the
young shoots. The crying need is to protect
what we have.
THROWING A BULL.
“R. McD.”: “Paul C.” (B. 16/6/’27) says
“J. McG.’s” method of throwing and tying
a bull needs corroboration. Let me assure
“Paul .C.” that the method is all that “J.
McG.” claims. I first saw a bull thrown
by a vet. using the rope as “.T. McG.” des-
cribes, except that after hitching round the
horns or neck a half-hitch was taken behind
the forelegs and then the rope was passed
along the back and another hitch taken
round the flank. The beast was then re-
leased and as he moved forward the rope
was pulled tight from behind. The bull
went gently to his knees and quietly rolled
over. I have since used this method success-
fully myself and have seen others use it on
several occasions. I do not know just how
it affects the beast, but it seems to numb
without causing pain. No one having seen
the trick done once would think of trying
any other way.
DRY-SEASON SOWING.
“Glenfield” : “Spud” (B. 30/6/’27) is not
quoting from Vic.’s N.-W. Mallee experience
when he writes about late and early sowing
in an exceptionally dry year. He says: "The
man in the best position is the one with
all his ground nicely worked up and not a
(Continued on page 31.)


o&DELCO-LIGHT
end your work
at the end of the dav
mm
Wmm
*
Plant No. 866, 850
watts, 52 volts, com-
plete with Tudor plante
type battery.
N °w, in the Winter and in the
early Spring—when every
hour of daylight counts —when
your whole year’s profit de-
pends on early planting—when
you are working against time
and weather —that’s when you
need the help of Delco-Light
As you come to the end of the
last furrow, or the last sheep
for the day is shorn —as you
look with satisfaction on what
you have done and think of the
work yet to do —think what
it would mean to have Delco-
Light.
Water at the turn of a tap,
time-saving power for turning
grinders, separators and all
small-power machinery, electric
light at house and out-buildings
—these are the things you can
have with Delco-Light.
And later, when the days grow
longer and warmer, Frigidaire,
the electric refrigerator, safe-
guards the health of your family
by keeping foods entrusted to
its care fresh, wholesome and
tempting—hot days and nights
are made pleasant by electric
fans —and ironing is done in the
coolest room m the house.
Think of all that it means to
have Delco-Light and arrange
to have it now.
WRITE FOR BOOKLET B.
WARBURTON, FRANKI, LTD., 307-11 Kent Street, Sydney
380-82 Bourke Street, Melbourne; 233-35 Elizabeth Street, Brisbane
PARSONS & ROBERTSON, LTD., Pulteney Street, Adelaide.
W. F. STEWART, 29 Cameron Street. Launceston.
DELCO -LIGHT
PRODUCT OF GENERAL MOTORS.


Wmmm
jk IRO 1811 111 I& 11
II
<K
LI
K«B=3S
«H . ,
IJm I 1
mm
m-r-m
u
m
m
9
V
'
- y V OJ
r/ v ~
.)/r r a
'J<r v
I\ v JSS
y~u/
W.
V\
s<y;M-
-_ -, I
1; .1
m
L
s&a
r
y
IVV /
BEALE-AMPICO
tyhe ‘"Perfect c Partnershih
The Beale Piano
The Beale Piano has reached the zenith of
its fame. After establishing a remarkable re-
putation in the land of its production it has
advanced to a world-renown.
Her Majesty the Queen, pleased with its
tone and impressed by its workmanship has
bought the Beale for Buckingham Palace.
The New South Wales Conservatorium of
Music possess nineteen Beale instruments.
Leading Educational institutions use it for
the training of their students. The Presby-
terian Ladies’ College owns twenty-three.
In thirty years over 60,000 Beale instru-
ments have been sold.
Beale Pianos gained every award at the
Franco-British Exhibition in 1908, and
they’re even better to-day.
Every important concert pianist in Australia
has spoken in the highest and most enthusi-
astic terms of the Beale Piano.
It is eminently fitted by reason of great
depth and richness of tone to meet the exact-
ing demands of the concert platform. Be-
cause of its mellowness and elegance it is
the ideal instrument for the drawing-room.
The Beale-Ampico
The Beale Piano combines with the Ampico
in the achievement of an almost-despaired-
of success in the re-enactment of great piano
performances. The Ampico, lacking the
powerful yet subtle co-operation of the Beale,
would be precluded from the achievement
of its remarkable results.
But in association with the celebrated Beale,
the Ampico is granted a medium of expres-
sion commensurate with its own powers. It
moves from triumph to triumph in preserv-
ing for perpetual repetition the finest efforts
of the greatest artists. Such performance is
that of a master always at his best—of him,
himself, in very essence and presence.
As"unto the bow the cord is”; as the haft is
to the blade, so is the Beale to the Ampico
and the Ampico to the Beale the Perfect
Partnership.
Exchange your Piano
Any piano that you now own will entitle
you to an allowance in buying a Beale-
Ampico. Convenient terms can be arranged.
Descriptive literature post free on request.
The Ampico
The Ampico is not a Player-Piano. It was
developed for those who are unsatisfied by
player-pianos.
The Ampico is capable of the one great
thing exact and perfect reproduction
in technic and volume—of the playing
of the world’s greatest pianists. So perfect
is its achievement that only a special word
—re-enactment —has been found adequate
to describe its performance.
The Ampico re-en?cts with an amazing
fidelity all that mastery of interpretation
from crashing chord to shadowy pianissimo
—that distinguishes great music from mere
sound.
Hear the Ampico
—for without hearing it you cannot appreci-
ate the marvel of its performance. The
Ampico—now in association with the Beale
Piano—may be heard at our George Street
Showrooms, Sydney, or any of the Branch
addresses as below. An inexhaustible store
of melody is yours to command with a Beale-
Ampico in the home the most modern
selection beside the musical treasures of
generations.
ħ
B EALE & COMPANY
Showrooms ;
340 George Street, Sydney.
LIMITED.
Head Office and Factories:
41-47 Trafalgar Street, Annandale.
BRANCHES: New South Wales: Bathurst, Lismore, Newcastle, Goulburn. Victoria: Maples in all Melbourne Suburbs.
Tasmania: Williams Bros., Hobart; Maples, Launceston. South Australia: Savery’s Pianos, Ltd., Adelaide.
Western Australia: Thomson’s, Ltd.
Queensland: G. J. Grice, Ltd., 90-92 Queen Street, Brisbane; Toowoomba, Maryborough, Rockhampton, Mackay.
Townsville and Cairns.
£/Jaf|us


•v.i «.
I
j'V"
GLOBE
timber mills c?
i-. FLINDERS ST ADELAIDE
TIMBER., JOINERY,
GALVANIZED IRON
Lowest - Prices, Highest- Qualify, Prompt" Service
M
#
WITH THEI
WONDERFUL 1
L filament/
***^flk
Milliard
THE • MASTER • VALVE
IVORY
TIPPED
or
PLAIN
w.
m
m
"V.
mm
m
m
* tC De cßeszke
—of course ”
A new world
conquered
With De Reszke Virginias at ten for ninepence, the
name De Reszke conquers a new world of smokers.
Here at last is the famous “Cigarette for the Few’
brought within the reach of the many. You
will want to try it. • Buy a packet early to-day,
while your tobacconist still has supplies.
Every cigarette that bears the name DE RESZKE
must needs be the very best in its class; otherwise
the “ goodwill” value of the name - at present
beyond compute —would be endangered. That is
your guarantee that the new De Reszke Virginias
will always preserve their present high quality.
De Reszke
(popularly pronounced “ DE RES-KEY”)
Vi rginias
twenty for one and six
In 10’s, 20’s, 50’s and 100'i
J. MILLHOFF 8C CO. LTD., 86, PICCADILLY, LONDON, W.l
Agents for N.S.W.: DALGETY & CO. LTD., SYDNEY
„.. a in sown.” Of course “Spud” would not
work his fallow up dry, after six rainless
months; but should ram fall after the no.
mal seeding period sufficient to work the
fallow, let “Spud” be advised to use it to
sow Ms crop, and get all the early growth
possible. The method he advocates is that
practised in the Wimmera, where late sow-
ing is, to an extent, necessary, to await tin
germination of the wild oats. As the Sep-
tember and October rains can usually be
relied on. there is not the same risk in late
sowing as in the Malice, where these rams
can't be depended upon. Evidently
has never had the job of cleaning up -00
acres of summer fallow with one team in
a wet spring and after a late cropping.
FIRE SAPPING.
“Mullarula”: I agree with “C.J.H.” (R-
-7/7/’27) regarding the efficacy ot fire sap-
ping as a means of killing timber. It he
errs at all it is in the direction of being
too thorough. Firewood piled to a height
of a foot round the butt will, as he says,
kill the tree at any time of the year; but
I have found that during a dry summer,
when there is little sap in the trees it is
only necessary to kick fallen leaves and bark
against the tree. Three inches of this rub-
bish all round the butt is often sufficient.
Trees treated in this way in winter will
die in about six weeks, but in summer the
leaves will wither in a few hours and the
trees may be burnt out a week later.
The man who intends to use a mouldboard
plough should not try fire sapping on bnga-
low or any other tree which sends up its
suckers from the ends of the roots. It lie
does he will do some Swearing later, unless
lm owns sheep to eat down the suckers.
If he intends to use a heavy disc plough he
need not trouble his head about suckers.
Summer fire sapping, of course, can only
be carried out in certain districts. A man
who started such an operation among the
dry grass of a Riverina summer would not
be popular either with his neighbors or with
the police.
BREEDING HENS.
“Jack Point”: I don’t agree with “Prac-
tical” <B. 23/6/’27) that second-year liens
are the" best to breed from. _ An August- or
September-hatched pullet will commence to
lay in February or March, and by the end
of July, if she isn’t well developed and laying
a full-weight egg, she never will be fit to breed
from. Any old mongrel will lay a larger egg
in her second or third year, but the aim
should be pullets which lay the full-weight
egg within, say, three months of their com-
mencing to lay, and the logical way to secure
this is to breed from birds that conform to
this. A 10- or 11-months’ old pullet is in
the very .pink of condition, full of vigor and
stamina, and provided she is well grown and,
as stated, laying a full-weight egg, it is folly
not to use her as a breeder.
I am not detracting from the merits ot
the older birds as breeders. If you have a
hen that has put up an exceptional per-
formance in her younger days, breed from her
by all means in her third, fourth or fifth
year, but mate her with vigorous young cock-
erels as she loses her vigor. But by all
means give the young birds a chance m their
youth. Small-egg layers come from hens that
themselves laid small eggs in tlieir first year,
and it is bad reasoning to say that if you
wait until they are laying full-weight eggs
before breeding from them the progeny will
show an upward tendency.
PICKING YOUR LAYERS.
“Jack Point”: “Hatter” says _ (B.
23/6/’27) there are three ways of picking
a layer. Altogether there are about a hun-
dred and three, and new ways, real and
imaginary, are being discovered weekly.
“Hatter” starts off by giving “the red
and plump-looking comb.” The comb cer-
tainly wants to be red, but not plump-
looking—it should be thin and wax-like to
the touch; a plump or beefy comb is an
almost infallible sign of a poor layer. We
have to thank the “fancier,” or monstrosity-
breeder. for raising birds with huge combs
which sap the birds’ vitality and obstruct
their eyesight. If “Hatter ooesn t believe
a large comb saps a bird’s vitality, let him
take two cockerels the same breed and age,
dub one and watch how much better it
grows than its fellow. The second mdica-
c’ation, loose and pliable abdomen, is a pretty
good indication of a bird’s laying ability,
but it must be taken in conjunction with
other features. A young pullet with very
yellow legs, lobes, beak, etc., is potentially a
good layer, because this indicates that she
has a good storage of fat to draw upon. As
“Hatter” states, this color leaves in regular
order, but the faster a bird loses it the sooner
will she crack up and moult early, whilst
the one which retains it will lay rigth on
and moult late.
Easily the most reliable method of culling
the flock is to discard the early monitors
and keep the late ones; if ever you get a
bird that lays through her moult, breed from
her until she dies of old age.
But there are many other indications of
the good layer. The head tells its tale to
the sophisticated. A bright eye, not too
prominent but brimful of life, with an eyelid
that doesn’t show even the merest tendency
to droop, is a good indication. Then there is
the “Hogan” system, named after its in-
ventor, one of the old-school of American
experts. This is a measurement test, the
space between the breast bone and pelvic
bones indicating “capacity,” and the thick-
ness of pelvic bones indicating, with large
capacity, the signs of the good layer. Most
practical egg-farmers agree that, taken in
conjunction with other signs, it is a useful
guide.
OLIVE-GROWING IN QUEENSLAND.
“W.P.D.”: Olives have been cultivated
successfully in South Aus. for over 50 years,
and the manufacture of olive oil is now well
established in the State. Parts of Queens-
land are as well suited for olive-growing as
anywhere else in the world, but the industry
has not been taken up. Much of the country
between Dalby and Roma is perfect for it.
The rainfall averages 35 to 40 in. and the
soil is congenial. More than 75 per cent, of
the olive oil used in the Commonwealth is
imported, mostly from Spain and Italy, and
it is not as good as the South Aus. product.
Consumption is steadily increasing.
The olive-tree begins to bear comparatively
early in Australia, and will give a crop
five years after planting; it takes 12 in
southern Europe. I know of a yield of 301 b.
per tree four years after planting in an
orchard at Blackwood, near Adelaide. A
leading South Aus. olive-grower obtained
from 14 acres of olive-trees, over a period of
20 years, 441 tons, averaging 22 tons per
annum, equalling about 31$cwt. per acre.
The average price paid for oil is from 10s.
to 20s. per cwt. The tree is remarkably
hardy, and when fairly established will stand
a reasonable amount of frost, dry spells or
extreme heat better than most fruit-trees,
and it requires no more care. The pests,
insect and vegetable, which attack it are
easily dealt with and the amount of cultiva-
tion reouired is small. Children can pick
the berries.
BANANAS IN BANANALAND.
“Cavendish”: “Grower” (B. 23/6/’27) is
right, when he says the banana is a voracious
feeder; but wrong when he says that lantana
will refertilise exhausted banana land in a
couple of years. It takes at least five years.
Banana-growing in S.Q. is not a great
gamble. The rainfall (so vital to success)
is certain, and has averaged 60in. per an-
num for the past 50 years. The market is
assured, while the pests “Grower” mentions
are mostly newspaper headlines, now that
“bunchy” has been knocked out by Pro-
fessor Goddard. Anyhow, there is no
“bunchy” on the Brisbane-Gympie belt. All
the so-called pests that are laughed at here
are also known in the far North, where
they also have to contend with a cyclone
every seven years at least. The S.Q. banana
area is outside the cyclone belt.
The outstanding fact is that 95 per cent,
of Australia’s bananas are grown within a
hundred miles of Brisbane, and as Cairns
and Innisfail are 1000 miles further away
from the markets this percentage will hold
for a long time. “Grower” says “the annual
output from these farvnorthern areas is
waxing enormously,” but he gives no sup-
porting figures. Growers near Brisbane are
wearing a fat smile, for they are getting
as high as 455. a case, which works out at
l|d. for each banana. Kin Kin —a small
district only 80 miles from Brisbane—pock-
eted £200,000 from southern merchants last
year, and there is a constant quest for ba-
nana land near Brisbane from former settlers
on the Tully and Johnstone Rivers.
HINTS FOR THE FARM.
“Emel”: Cincturing the main limbs, as
advocated by “Two Seas” (B. 7/7/’27) for
shy-bearing apple-trees, has been practised
with success on apricot-trees, not to increase
the yield of fruit, but to hasten its ripening.
The usual procedure is to cincture only one
or two linlbs on each tree so as to ensure
that an easily-handled portion of the crop
will capture the soaring prices of early
markets.
“Jumper” : The greatest mistake is to feed
turkeys, except when it is absolutely neces-
sary, as in time of drought and in the bare
winter months. The ramblers should be
allowed to forage for themselves. They are
largely insectivorous by nature, and if de-
prived of an insect ration and such odds-
and-ends as may be picked up in a well-
grassed paddock, thev never seem to do
well, and fall victims to every farmyard
malady going.
“Anthony Gloster”: Dorset Horns, men-
tioned by “R. Mort” (B. 14/7/’27) as a
good speculation for the fat lamb raiser,
have the advantage that the ewes, instead
of running from a fox, like ewes of most
other breeds, wall stand up to him, and can
generally protect their lambs from Reynard.
“Sylvester” : There are three rules to keep
in mind when fixing timber for concrete -
(1) See that all timber used internally is
well saturated with water. If this is not
done the wet concrete will cause the timber
to swell, and the work will fracture as it sets.
(2) Where possible, arrange that all timber
will come clear of the concrete once it is
moved. (3) Use no more nails than neces-
sary and, ■where possible, leave the heads
clear for withdrawing.
“Carisbrook Junr.”: A tested bait for
rats consists of pumpkin seeds. Boil half a
gallon of water with one ounce of arsenic
and two ounces of ordinary washing-soda
for about half an hour. Add half an ounce
of sugar and stir the mixture thoroughly
with a stick, which should then be. burnt.
Soak the pumpkin seeds in the solution and
scatter about the haunts.
“Yufu” : To get seedlings for sweet-potato
planting, cut off a length of vine, coil it
round and round, and plant it in an inch
or two of soil in a hot-bed. Every joint in
the vine will throw out roots, and these
roots will give a bunch of midget potatoes,
which, if planted in the spring, supply each
one or two sturdy plants. If your soil is
clayey, plant the seedling in the centre of
hills 'made by casting two furrows one way
and two on to them from the other side.
This allows good drainage and gives the
tubers room to swell.
“Eiss”: Re “.T.G.’s” switch to bind a
split post, etc. (B. 30/6/’27). Soft wire is
needed to v make a success. If only steel
wire is obtainable burn it in a good fire be-
fore using.
“Te Hipi”: Re jute fibre in wool. Easily
80 per cent, of the fibres are from the ragged
edges round the seams. What about turn-
ing the pack inside-out before putting in
the wool? It wouldn’t look very neat; but
a bale of wool isn’t meant to be a picture,
anyway.
‘Tick”: The opinion of “T.J.” (B.
7/7/’27) that sheep should be yarded as
seldom as possible is not upheld by the few
remaining shepherds of the Monaro
(NS.W.I. Diseases prevalent among jum-
bucks to-day were, they hold, unknown in
the flocks that were yarded from sundown
to sunrise. Certain it is that the healthiest
woollies are those regularly fed on dry coun-
try The ancients of the uplands declare
that early-morning browsing on the dew-
wet meadows is responsible for the fluke,
bottle and black diseases that in the yarding
davs were incidental only to swamp country.


Quality Quoted t/u> demand
Quality ■maintains tAe Sole
Army Club
lO for 9dL CIGARETTES 20 for 1/6
In pure ribbed watermarked rice paper.
CAVANDERS Ltd., London (Est. 1775), Pioneers of Hygienic Cigarette Parking.
1
saw?
£
&
CORK-TIPPED
or PLAIN
SMOKE-OH!V
Many spinsters seem to live a life of single
blizzardness.
We like a girl who lets us put our arm
around her waist and no bones about it.
* *
A newly-married man off to business is
often late through his wife's*permanent wave.
* *
A woman doesn’t know what she can do
till she cries.
Life on a dairy-farm isn’t all a bed of
rouses; but a lot of it is.
The latest A.T..P. Conference in Sydney
seemed to be a case of Mutch adieu.
Beauty hath not all the pleasure
In this giddy world of sin,
For when Beauty stoops to folly
Homely ladies push her in.
n.s.w. C. C.
When a man who takes up the law becomes
a Judge he lays it down.
The poet says, “Let us make this world
an Eden.” Women's fashion designers are
doing their bit.
NO BUTTING IN ALLOWED THERE.
“Very nice and all that. But I don’t like the color—
it doesn’t suggest Nature.”
“Nature, sir! Why should I let Nature dictate to me?”
Brcach-of-promise cases often prove the
most beautiful orchids to be but common
fly-catchers.
❖ *
A Melbourne citizen who flew over Cen-
tral Australia to see if land there was worth
selecting reports it a desert. A bird’s-eye
pooh.
* *
Melbourne Herald declares that the secret
of married happiness is to give and take.
But these evening papers always are evasive.
Which is to give and which to take?
With employees it’s the late worm that
gets the bird.
The courtship is the appetiser—
Cupid’s cocktail none may question ;
The honeymoon provides the feast....
And after that comes indigestion.
N.s.w. Two Seas.
Many pedestrians owe all their troubles
to a chance meeting with a motorist.
;!j ;J;
There is one thing we like about telephone
attendants; they keep on plugging away.
A doctor has a gbod reason for making a
complaint when lie can find nothing the
matter with a rich patient who has called
him in at midnight.
An honest man is Mr. Bly,
His candor often sears one:
lie says he cannot tell a )ie —
Not even when he hears one!
victoria. Bock.
* *
From the daily-paper report:—
In reply to bis Honor the co-respondent said that
when the petitioner arrived home he knew the cir-
cumstances would seem suspicious. It was not a
sense of guilt but because he lost his head that he
got through i lie window and ran away. “What
would your Honor do in such circumstances?” he
asked.
His Honor, of course, would avoid being
found in eo-responding circumstances.
A Sydney firm, dealing in farm implements,
having had an account on its books of long-
standing, finally wrote a letter accompanied
by a Blue Paper. This is what it got in
reply :
Deer Sirs, —You say if I don’t send money
soon You’ll make trouble fer me. Well if yous
can make more trouble than there is ere at present,
I’ll buy orl the pigs in the district a Coller and Tie
fer a Christmas present. You have as much charnse
of gettin money outer me as a celluloyd dorg as of
catchin an asbestos cat running through Hell. In
conclusions I don’t wish yous any harm, but I hopes
if any bushfires or droughts comes along, that they’ll
do the most damage in Little George-street.
"Fhe office of the co. is, of course, in Little
Geo.
When dressing a fowl, a
Portland (Vic.) wom a n
found the wedding-ring she
had lost. The hen had swal-
lowed the golden yoke.
* *
“Carisbrook, Jun.” : .Tacky
was before a N.Q. bench
charged with belting his soul-
mate, one Annie. “Shall I
ask a lawyer to defend you,
Jack.v?” said the P.M.
“Baal,” replied Jacky; “but
I like couple plurry good witnests.”
“They call my new frock the ‘Banana’,” said
she.
She had got, I was certain, a quip on.
Of course I asked why. She replied, “Don’t
you see?
Because it’s so easy to slip on!”
victoria. E. T.
“H.H.” : I have a neighbor whose garden
is rank with weeds, pickets hang out of the
fence and the gate is off its hinges. And
that last is strange, since he mends his gait
every night when he gets near home.
Eh-om the high prices that people will
pay for titles in England it appears that
honors are not without a profit in their own
country.
The man who can never get out of debt
has the consolation of knowing that there
are many who are not allow-ed to get into it.
A PROBATIONARY TERM.
FIRST CLUBMAN: “ How’s your wife?”
SECOND CLUBMAN: “Ask me another; I’ve
been divorced for a month!”
FIRST CLUDMAN: “Good heavens! Divorced
FOR A MONTH ! Does that mean
she’s got to take you back again?”
UP AND DOWN THE LADDER.
Smith a State-school pal o’ mine;
Smyth secured a scholarship:
Smythe w-as climbing line by line:
Smyjth an Oxford don, bai gad!
Smythe took up with girls and wine;
Smyth let horses get a grip;
Smith again a pal o’ mine
On a West o’ Sunset pad.
N.s.w. N. H. R.
When a man’s wife discovers the evidence
on the shoulder of his coat, lie wishes the
girl had kept her schoolgirl complexion.
The composer was writing an aeroplane
song,
When he cried in wildest despair:
“The words are all right, but tlie music’s
all wrong—
I can’t get the suitable air!”
VICTORIA. E. T.
A single-seater often runs on into double-
harness..
* *
The cost of keeping the hair short makes
many a husband think it a pity that flowing
locks were ever dammed.
At doing folks he was a dab;
People lie’s done in ev'ry clime;
At last the John Hops made a grab,
And now lie’s busy doing time.
n.s.w. Harold Hardupp.
In spite of many signs to the contrary
women are really becoming more economical.
Especially in the spring, for instance, they
buy only enough clothes to see them through.
NURSERY RHYME FOR BASIC-
WAGERS.
Sing a song of sixpence! However loud we
cry,
Eighty-five bright shillings must make our
weekly pie.
On Monday come our creditors, all with
charges deft—
Aren’t we very lucky if we have sixpence
left?
N.s.w. 11. IJ.
* *
THE EPITAPH.
“Bad men are never buried in cemeteries; go and
see the monuments.”
While John James lived all men shrank from
his clutch ;
But when death’s claw took John,
They gathered in top hats to say how much
They valued him now gone.
The slab they carved with many flattering
names
To show how all men prize
His sainted memory. “Here lies John
James” —
It is the stone that lies.
N.S.W.
B.
CONVERT.
H. Henpeck once would sneer and grin
At “wireless” friends who blabbed about
The way they tuned into Pekin
Or Paraguay. But now no tout
About his set makes such a din ;
Each dial now for hours he’ll spin,
Knowing, whatever he tunes in,
It tunes the missus out!
victoria.
MACESS.
THE DIFFERENCE.
Young .Dan is a joker whom
duty requires
To watch from his look-out
for summer bush-fires.
For him, as for us, it's no
sort of a joke
On a flaming hot day when
we hear him shout
“Smoke!”
It's a! different tale, though,
when shearing time
comes
And lie does a few steps to
the tune that lie hums ;
Then his antics recall the
old “dulce in loco”
As lie playfully taps the big-
shed bell with “Smoke-
cb !”
S.A.
BILL O'C.
“SIBERIA SPEAKING!”
“A Sydney lad the other night picked up station
R.F.N., Siberia, and heard a complete programme
of musical items.”
Out of the ether the other day
Came a voice from the very far away,
An answer insistently seeking.
A lad in Australia heard it say:
“Siberia speaking!”
He listened to hear of the Bolshie red,
Of the shootings and murders; but the ether
was fed
With no word of the shambles reeking.
And nothing of slaughter the Bolshie said—
“ Siberia speaking!”
And all the lad heard ’ueath his Southern
star
Was a song and a tune on a steel guitar.
No news of fresh murders came winging;
No doubt the police are particular—
They stick to singing.
N.S.W.
A. H. A.
AN ILLITERATE LAYING STRAIN
Mr. Foozey stood gazing thunderstruck at
what, tlie evening before, had been a pro-
mising bed of lettuces. Scratched out and
partially devoured, they were strewn about
the garden path, and, looking very pleased
with themselves, half a dozen fowls rested
after their labor, full of tender green nutri-
ment.
Mr. Foozey rushed at them and made a
wild sweep with a rake; but he tripped oyer
the water-can and fell sprawling, barking
both shins. During the next few moments
he quite forgot that he was a member of the
Better Language League.
Limping back to the house he thrust the
kitchen door open with unnecessary violence,
frightening Mrs. Foozey. “That settles it!“
he exclaimed fiercely. “I’m not going to
spend time and money trying to grow vege-
tables for other- people’s fowls to eat.”
“What, have they flown over again?”
asked Mrs. Foozey.
“You encourage them to fly over,” growled
her- husband.
“/ encourage them!” exclaimed , Mrs.
Foozey indignantly.
“Of course you do,” said Mr. Foozey in
an aggrieved tone. “You throw the house
scraps over the fence into the pen and the
fowls naturally conclude that our place is a
land flowing with milk and honey.”
“Don’t be absurd. Gideon !”
“I'm not absurd!” Mr. Foozey snapped
back, “and unless you can invent some way
of preventing those cursed fowls from getting
in here I refuse to do a tap of work in the
garden. If I had my way I’d lay poisoned
wheat”
“Stop a moment. Let me think,” said
Mrs. Foozey. “Oh, yes; I remember now.
It was in a book I was reading. Some
people were annoyed because a neighbor’s
fowls kept coming over into their place, so
they sent the neighbor a dozen eggs with a
polite note. ‘These eggs,’ they wrote, ‘were
laid in our yard by your fowls. Doubtless
you will be glad to either set or eat them.'
The nuisance ceased after that.”
“By George, that’s not a bad idea!” ex-
claimed Mr. Foozey. “We’ll try it.”
So the girl who came in to help Mrs.
Foozey twice weekly was sent down to the
grocer’s, when she arrived the following
morning, to buy a dozen eggs. Mrs. Foozey
gave her a note to hand with the eggs to
the lady next door on her way back.
Perusing at the tea-table a few evenings
later a letter that had been found in the box
addressed to him, Mr. Foozey scowled, en-
deavoured unsuccessfully to suppress a swear
word and then, to Mrs. Foozey’s astonish-
ment, burst into a shout of almost satanic
laughter.
“I don’t know whether you realise it or
not, Gideon.” she said severely, “but you are
always coming home the worse for drink
lately.”
“Read that,” roared her husband, ignoring
the accusation. Picking up the letter which
he pushed across to her, she read as fol-
lows :
Dear Mr. Foozey,—As the eggs you sent in to us
are branded “Producers’ Co-op. Soc., Guaranteed
New Laid,” our fowls, which, I grieve to say, are
most illiterate, could obviously not have laid them.
If, however, at any time, you find any unbranded
SHE FELT SHE NEEDED A CHANGE.
“Darling, I do wish you’d vary your drinks.
I get so tired of kissing cherry brandy!”
ones, we would be glad if you would return them to
us, as we have more orders on hand for settings,
especially at this time of the year, than we can fill.
We only use our own eggs for setting or those from
proved laying strains. My wife, however, joins me
in thanking you for the gift of the branded ones,
which will come in handy for culinary purposes.
—I am, Yours sincerely, John Pashmore Rumsey.
P.S.: Any orders for birds or settings with which
you care to favor us will always receive our prompt
attention.
LES ROBINSON.


#
/
■
THE
y
V.
X
V
sv
A
✓
V


SHIPS
MARINE
ENGINES
LOCOMOTIVES
MACHINE
TOOLS
Biirt
FORGINGS
CASTINGS
NON
FERROUS
PRODUCTS
DROP
STAMPINGS
HIGH SPEED
STEELS
SMALL TOOLS
GAUGES
PNEUMATIC
' TOOLS
ELECTRIC
LIGHTING*
SETS
COAL
HANDLINO
PLANT
HYDRAULIC
MACHINERY
DOCIC
EQUIPMENT
MC.633
Water Power
HTHE harnessing of water power is probably destined to be
A the greatest development of the present era.
Offering, apparently, unique opportunities of economical power
supply, the problem actually bristles with difficulties. Once
established, a water power station can supply electric power
over an ever-increasing radius, at a production-cost far lower
than by any other means. It is in the economic establish*
ment of water power stations, that such diverse and intricate
difficulties are so often found.
On this subject, now vital to world development, Armstrong
Whitworth are able to offer almost unparalleled assistance.
Mot only within the British Empire but in all parts of the
world, Armstrong Whitworth Water Turbines have been
successfully designed and successfully installed to give a full
md economic solution to widely differing problems.
In the successful harnessing of water power lies to a great
extent the future success of nearly every country in the
world. To the British Empire at home and Overseas, Arm*
strong Whitworth offer their full assistance in solving these
problems. We invite enquiries and correspondence from all
who may be interested.
ENGINEERS TO
THE EMPIRE
You are invited to send to
our Australian representa-
tives for Catalogues of any
A. W. Products in which
you may he interested
Sir W- G -Armstrong'WHlTWOßTH6? C°'L TD
NEWCASTLE * ON • TYNE * AND * MANCHESTER * ENGLAND
London Office: KINNAIRD HOUSE * PALL MALL EAST * LONDON ’S'W 1
Code : BENTLEY’S Cables : ZIGZAG, LONDON.
Sole Repretentatires for Australia : Messrs. GILBERT-LODGE & CO. Ltd., MELBOURNE, SYDNEY, & ADELAIDE. ,


Children
enjou
h
it makes them
u>ellandstrona
In 4 sizes
jfall Chemists & Stores
“THE WOMAN’S MIRROR”
Contains everything that women should know, from kitchen to
drawing-room, from the cradle to old age.
FREE PATTERN EVERY WEEK.
It is the mo3t remarkable Threepennyworth ever printed.
“THE WOMAN’S MIRROR.”
PUBLISHED EVERY TUESDAY,
Price ------- 3d.
Si
&
dl
a
Wm
1
i
IRS
=lB
ĥ
Look for dM Trademark I Agent* Every*
Write for Illustrated Catalogue.
The Ever-Ready Co. (Gt. Britain)
163 Pitt Street, Sydney
The Bad Man,
[FOU THE BULLETIN.]
THE night was humid and sweltering—
one of those black, opaque Papuan
nights that presage the breaking of the
monsoon. From Casey’s hotel came the grat-
ing rasp of a gramophone playing an air that
was old when gramophones were young. A
hum of voices rumbled from the bar, and on
the balcony a husky tenor was chanting an
indecorous ballad of the beach. Stannerd
sniffed the familiar odor of stale copra and
smiled wryly. It seemed incredible that ten
days ago he had been shivering in Sydney.
He crossed over to Casey’s and entered
the bar. There was a perceptible lull in
the clamor as he stood blinking in the glare
of the acetylene-gas jets. The scene was
familiar enough. Half a dozen miners were
solemnly “selling a horse” for drinks at one
end of the stained counter; a noisy game of
snooker w T as in progress in tlic billiard-room;
a couple of heavy-footed traders were shuf-
fling in close embrace to the tinny strains
of the gramophone, and from groups scat-
tered about the room came a continuous
babble.
Casey, red-faced and oozing perspiration,
boomed a greeting, confident in the know-
ledge that he had nothing to hide from the
inquisitorial eye of the resident magistrate.
“Evening, R.M. What’ll you take, sir?”
“Nothing, Casey—thanks,” returned Stan-
nerd. He hardly knew what had prompted
him to enter Casey's bar. After all, it was
no place for the R.M. of the division, even if
he had only that day resumed duty after a
long spell South, lie heard his name called
and looked up to recognise Jack Higgins and
Dawson, his mate, pioneers of the Dovara
Field, tight-lipped, unsmiling, lean men, but
good fellows. They were playing poker in a
corner of the billiard-room with two other
men. One, whose silk shirt and flamboyant
tie suggested prosperity, was a pearl-buyer
from the Trobriands known to Stannerd.
The other was a stranger. Stannerd strolled
over, and, straddling a chair, looked on idly.
Higgins was dealing, flicking the cards to
each player with a lightness and dexterity
that spoke of long practice.
“Care to take a hand, R.M.?” he drawled,
and he winked suggestively.
Stannerd grinned. “No cheek, Jack,” he
chided. “I’ve half a mind to bounce you as
it is—flagrantly breaking the law under my
very nose!”
The stranger gave an impatient grunt.
“Play cards,” lie muttered sulkily.
“Keep your hair on, Murdoch,” returned
Higgins easily. “It’s your speak, anyhow.”
Stannerd leaned forward with sudden in-
terest. So this was Murdoch —the bad man,
the mystery man, against whom little
Brookes, sent over to relieve him while on
holiday, had warned him so earnestly at Port
Moresby. He saw a slim-built, sallow-faced,
flashy man of thirty-odd, whose eyes were
furtive slits, and who had a trick of darting
quick glances about the room, at his cards,
at the stakes and at his opponents’ faces. A
half-empty tumbler stood at his elbow, and
it was evident that he was not quite sober.
An unpleasant-looking customer, reflected
Stannerd —the kind of man who would knock
a woman about, take a mate down, bilk
a- ——
“Think you’ll know me again, mister?”
Murdoch spat the words out venomously. A
flicker of annoyance came into Stannerd’s
eyes and his lips tightened. He was con-
scious that the room had grown strangely
quiet and that many a curious gaze was
focussed on him. He stared critically for a
moment at Murdoch’s lowering face and then
bent forward.
“Is there any particular reason why I
should know you again?” he said very dis-
tinctly. The effect of his words upon Mur-
doch was astonishing. He kicked back his
chair and leapt to his feet, quivering with
temper. Stannerd stared at him blankly.
Then he, too, sprang up as he saw Murdoch
clawing at an ominous bulge that showed on
his hip. Stannerd stepped back, and as lie
did so Jack Higgins rushed forward and
grasped Murdoch by the wrists. Murdoch
writhed and struggled in his grasp, mouthing
obscenities, but the digger hung on grimly.
“Clear out, R.M.!” lie gasped. “I’ll hold
him, but you clear —quick and lively!”
“Nothing doing!” said Stannerd curtly.
“Let him”
"Hop it, Mr. Stannerd!” Dawson was
urging him now. “You can’t afford to be
mixed up in a brawl here. Show a bit of
sense, and clear out.”
They were right, these two old friends,
and with what dignity he could muster
Stannerd crossed to the door. A little titter
of amusement followed him as he stepped
out into the darkness, and he colored with
vexation. What a fool he had been! What
an utter, priceless ass to go hunting trouble
—-in Casey’s bar of all places! A hand
tapped him on the shoulder and he looked
up' to recognise Jack Higgins. The digger’s
face was grave as he took Stannerd by the
elbow and led him along the road.
“I hope you’re not narked with me for
butting in, old man,” he said, "but that
fellow Murdoch is—well—dangerous.”
“I’m most grateful, Jack,” replied Stannerd
warmly. “Good Lord! The K.M. brawling
in a pub over a poker table! Pretty hard
to explain! In future I shall give Casey's
a wide berth.”
“And if you’ll take my tip, laddie, you'll
give Murdoch an equally wide berth,” re-
turned Higgins grimly.
For a moment they stood eye to eye.
Then Stannerd shrugged indifferently.
“That is quite another matter,” he re-
marked drily. “What is the strength of
friend Murdoch, Jack?”
“He’s a wrong ’un, Stannerd. A thorough-
going bad lot.”
“But why, man? Why?” There was a
note of exasperation in the magistrate’s
voice. “I know he put the wind up little
Brookes, but I’ve never set eyes on the
blighter before. Why did he pick on me?”
“Because you’re a police officer, Stannerd.
Because Murdoch is wanted by the Southern
police for attempted murder, or something
equally serious, and he swears he’ll drill a
hole through the man who attempts to serve
the warrant.”
Stannerd pondered this. He knew that
all kinds of malefactors seek sanctuary in
Papua, where it is an unwritten law to mind
one’s own business. He knew, moreover, that
if the Southern police took a notion to comb
the North-west Pacific the operation would
yield handsome returns. Nevertheless, he
found it difficult to believe that Murdoch,
who was obviously a man of some intelli-
gence, would seek l-efuge in a settlement that
boasted a wireless station and a monthly
steamer service.
“I think I’ll sleep on it, Jack,” lie said
after a while, “I’m all for a quiet life,
but”
“Then don’t be a fool, old man,” inter-
rupted Higgins earnestly. “Let the police
on the other side do their own dirty work.
Just sit tight.”
Stannerd laughed. “Sit tight?” he echoed,
“You seem to forget that Murdoch had a
win to-night; that all hands down to the
coons will be grinning to-morrow, and that
my name will be mud. I’ll sit tight, all
“HEY, MISTER, D’YEH KNOW Y’ DROPPED YER SADDLE-CLOTH!”
right, Jack, but it will be on Murdochs
chest.” Then he made his way slowly up
the hill to his residency.
As Stannerd made liis rounds the follow-
ing morning he was uncomfortably aware
that the story of his discomforture was
already a twice-told tale. There seemed to
be something cool in the -demeanor of his
friends; something lacking in the respectful
salutes of the natives. Even Sergeant Bab-
aka and his hard-bitten squad were—well—
too damnably polite. He felt himself stiffen
as lie passed Casey’s. Murdoch was leaning
carelessly against the door-post. He re-
garded Stannerd with a cool, appraising
stare, and, as their eyes met, a derisive
smile touched Murdoch’s lips, and his
shoulder moved in an almost imperceptible
shrug. Stannerd passed on, but he gritted
his teeth as he heard a burst of laughter
from the bar. The climax came when, as
he neared his office, a couple of loafers,
whom he had but yesterday put under the
“Dog Act,” sprang grotesquely to attention
and threw him a mocking salute. Stannerd
colored with annoyance, but when he reached
his room his sense of humor came to his
rescue, and he laughed, though a little rue-
fully.
“What an infernal pickle!” he murmured.
But he must find a way out. If Murdoch
was actually a fugitive from justice, and a
warrant existed for his apprehension, then
it was Stannerd’s duty to arrest him. If
there was no warrant, but evidence on file
indicating that Murdoch was “wanted, ’ then
it was his duty to hold him on some minor
charge, and await instructions from head-
quarters. If on the other hand Murdoch
was merely posing as a formidable person
with a criminal record, then Stannerd felt
it was his duty as a man to call his bluff.
Stannerd made a careful examination of
the records. There was no warrant for
arrest. File by file he searched the official
correspondence. Murdoch’s name was not
even mentioned ! Stannerd scratched his ear.
He was conscious of a feeling of vague
resentment.
A faint knock sounded on the door, and
a nondescript little white man shuffled into
the room. One glance at the quivering mouth
and the staring eyes told Stannerd that here
was a badly-friglitened man.
“Me name’s Bailey,” quavered the new-
comer, “Eddie Bailey. I want. pertection 1
’E’s ’unting me with a gun, ’e is!”
“Who is?” asked Stannerd patiently.
“Murdoch, mister!” Stannerd was sud-
denly alert. “ ’E’s took me woman, and
when I starts to argue the toss he goes, for
to blow me blasted ’ead orf!” The little
man gulped nervously and continued:
“Ses the girl went willin’, the liar! ’Er
wot I give her old twenty quid for,
not six munce since. Y’know wot native
women is, mister!”
“No, I’m damned if I do!” snapped Stan-
nerd. “I can’t undertake to return abscond-
ing village Flossies to their wrongful owners,
but if Murdoch has threatened you, the
law will protect you.” He paused. With
careful handling here was an opportunity to
see what Murdoch was made of.
“Your remedy, Bailey,” he continued, “is
to swear out a complaint against this man
and have him hound over to keep the peace.
I’ll make the complaint out now. You can
sign it, and I’ll serve the summons immedi-
ately.”
Bailey started back in alarm. “No fear!”
he cried, terror in his eyes. “Why—why—
’e’ll ’arf kill me!”
“I guarantee to protect you, Bailey,”
said Stannerd soothingly. “Just sign here,
and I’ll”
But the little man was already half
way to the door. “No ’ope!” he squeaked.
“Blime! ’e’ll do for you, and where the ’ell
will I be then?”
Stannerd, now thoroughly exasperated,
went on with his search. Lying in a
corner of the office was a heap of what
looked like newspapers. Idly he turned them
over with his foot, then with a startled
exclamation he bent down and carried them
over to the table. They were labelled
“Strictly confidential; for the information
of police officers only.” For an hour or
more, Stannerd was absorbed.
Presently a face 'stared out at him from
the printed page, and his heart gave a
startled thump.
“Murdoch I” he muttered. For a moment
he studied the photograph and the para-
graph that accompanied it. Then he thrust
the page into his breast pocket and stood up.
A native orderly nodded somnolently on the
front verandah. Stannerd stirred him gently
with the toe of his boot.
“You savee this taubada, Eddie Bailey?
Good! Go find him, and tell him Govern-
ment wants to talk.”
The “boy” returned in a few minutes
ushering in the unhappy trader.
“Now, Bailey,” said the magistrate, “here’s
your complaint ready for signature. What
about it?”
Bailey shook his head vehemently, and
started to retreat. “No fear I won’t!” he
croaked.
Stannerd gripped the other’s wrist, and
leaned forward so that his face was close
to that of the frightened man. “Sign it,
you dirty little sweep!” he blazed, “or I’ll —
I’ll wooden you!”
Bailey, protesting fearfully, affixed his
signature to the complaint, and with a little
whimper scuttled to the inner office, where
Stannerd locked him in. The magistrate
busied himself for a few minutes filling in a
formidable-looking document that he blotted
carefully and placed in his breast pocket.
Then he went out into the street.
It was high noon. Overhead hung a piti-
less sun and heat waves shimmered like blue
flames upon the corrugated-iron roofs of the
settlement. Casey’s bar was crowded with
thirsty men when Stannerd strolled in. There
was a death like silence as the magistrate
picked his way leisurely between the tables
to where Murdoch and a few of his cronies
were sitting. Murdoch slewed round in his
chair, and his expression changed subtly as
he glanced around in a furtive fashion —
at the door, at the magistrate, and at his
assembled friends.
“I believe, • Murdoch” —Stannerd’s tone
was coolly conversational —“that you intend
to —er —shoot the man who —er —serves you
with a summons. That so?”
Murdochs thin lips twisted in a snarl, and
his hand moved significantly towards his
hip.
“What tlr ”
“Shut up!” rapped out Stannerd. “I have
a summons here for you, my lad, and while
you’re loading up your artillery I'll read
it to you.” There arose a little sound like
a gasp-r-Ahe, noise court reporters call “sen-
sation.” Jack Higgins, who had been hover-
ing in the background, moved suddenly and
stood behind Murdoch’s chair. Stannerd
cleared his throat.
“In the Court of Petty Sessions,” he
began, “summons to defendant upon a com-
plaint.” He. went on in dry, legal jargon,
omitting neither a “whereas” nor a “herein-
before,” to summons John William Murdoch
to appear before the Court on a charge of
uttering threatening language to one Edward
Bailey so that the said Edward Bailey went
in fear of his life. Murdoch sat hunched
in his chair, his lips mouthing curses.
“Shut up!” snapped Stannerd, and he
rolled up the summons and stuck it into
Murdoch’s coat pocket. Then he turned his
back. Suddenly he wheeled round again.
“I have another document here, Murdoch”
—his voice was icy—“in which you are
interested;” He took a folded paper from
his breast pocket and held it up. He heard
a low murmur from the crowd, and the
uneasy shuffling of many feet. Murdoch
twisted in his seat and, clenching his fists,
glanced about the room from face to face.
“Listen!” barked Stannerd. “A warrant
has been issued, by the Kowonga Bench”- ——
Murdoch, white to the lips, sprang to his
feet. There was a short scuffle, and Higgins
had him clutched in a bear-like hug.
“You fool, Stannerd,” gasped the digger;
“I warned you to”
Stannerd ignored him. “.. . . by the
Kowonga Bench for the arrest of John Wil-
liam Murdoch (whose photograph appears
above), charged with ....”
A flood of invective poured from Mur-
doch’s lips, and he writhed impotently in
Higgins’s grasp. Stannerd read on, his voice
sounding clearly above the din.
“.... charged with —er — disobeying an
order for the , support of his wife and chil-
dren . . . . ”
Higgins’s face went blank, then he sent
his prisoner reeling. “Well, I’m damned!”
he growled.
“.... Amount due, with costs, thirteen
pounds seven shillings and sixpence....”
Somebody sniggered, then the pent-up
emotions of the crowd broke out in a burst
of wild, uncontrollable laughter.
“. ... Arrest not desired at present, but,
if traced, report whereabouts to ....”
But Murdoch, the bad man, Jhad fled.
TAUWARRA.


Nation-Wide Popularity through
Fair Dealing.
The phenomenally rapid growth and nation-wide popularity of the
Producers and Citizens’ may be said to rest on the fact that it lives up
to the spirit as well as the letter of the ideal of Co-operation. For
example, its Policy-holders are protected against forfeiture of their
policies during seasonal emergencies; each year definite sums are
earmarked for loan purposes; while the Company’s intimate know-
ledge of the peculiar needs of the men on the land takes form in
sympathetic, understanding treatment.
The PRODUCERS & CITIZENS’
Co-operative Assurance Co. of Australia, Ltd.,
Gov. Dir.:
A. K. Trethowan.
114-120 Castlereagh Street, Sydney.
flen. Man.:
FT. Fell. *
THERE’S ENOUGH PUNCH IN THIS .22 COLT
- «!
1
PRICE
£8
Post
Free
ħ
to make it a mighty fine gun for all-roupd use. It shoots the well-known
.22 W. R. F. Cartridge, loaded with 7 grains of powder, and a ao-gram
FLAT POINT bullet—either solid or hollow point. Being LNoiOJi
LUBRICATED, this ammunition is always clean to handle. There is
no exposed grease to pick up grit or dust, and it may therefore be
carried loose in the pocket without risk of its efficiency being lmpaned.
The slender 6in. barrel of this COLT, with its finely adjustable Target Sights and perfect rifling,
the full grip and the high quality of fitting and workmanship for which its name is famous,
combine to make it capable of such extreme accuracy that good shooting can be done with it
at 100 yards and over.
Every owner of a Model 90 Winchester Repeating Rifle shooting the .22 W.R.F.
Cartridge should consider the advantages of adding this Colt to his armory.
(The Oldest-established Gunmakers in
Australia),
453 KENT STREET, SYDNEY.
COWLES & DUNN
’Phone : MS 3 88.
Our Service Department
This page is set apart for the service of Bulletin readers.
If you want anything, including information, you are invited to write to the
Service Department.
The service is entirely free. All you have to do is to attach the coupon from the
inside back cover of last Bulletin to hand.
Readers obliging with replies need not attach coupons,
The right of selection and rejection is reserved.
To facilitate search it is desirable that questions be asked on only one subject at
a time.
Wants.
Wanted copies Bulletin July 1, 1926.
State price.—1020.
Young man, 27, wants position, Islands or
Northern Territory; used storekeeping, trac-
tor, cars, etc.; do repairs, handy with tools;
references. Small remuneration to get to the
Islands or Outback. —1028.
Engineer (26), single, wants job, go any-
where. Marine exp. Maintenance work.
Understands internal combustion, steam and
Diesel engines.—1040.
Scotsman, single, middle-aged, thoroughly
understands horses, drive car, do repairs,
handy all tools, good at concrete work, wants
situation on station. —1025.
_ Scotsman, engaged in men’s mercery, Adel-
aide, wants change to Sydney or Melbourne ;
ten years with best establishments in Scot-
land. Single, ex-soldier, first-class refs.—
103 S.
Refined, middle-aged lady like position
housekeeper, caretaker or any position of
trust, Melbourne or suburbs. Refs, can be
given.—1041.
Young woman, bright, active, conscientious,
unpretentious, seeks billet where ability in
nursing, housekeeping, car-driving is of value,
and/or as secretary. Good testimonials.
Go anywhere.—lo 46.
Well-educated young man, many years’ ex-
perience in car-driving, very capable at cleri-
cal work, wants evening and week-end
employment in Sydney.—lo6s.
Position as typist and stenographer (ex-
perienced) in the Islands, Java or Straits
Settlements. —1067.
Position in N.Q. or the Islands, as book-
or store-keeper or plantation assistant, 26,
good health; been book- and store-keeper,
salesman, Island supercargo (14 months on
Makainbo), handled successfully up to 35
“boys” and can speak beche-de-mer; motor
mechanic and can handle launch or surf-boat.
—lOB3.
Engineer, civil servant, about to retire, with
a son who has been jackerooing, wants to
buy farm, to run up to 1000 sheep ; can put
up £lOOO cash; land must be reasonable in
price and not far from coast (Vic. or
N.S.W.). Would consider partnership with
the right man. —1081.
Situation by electrician, 26, single; 10
years’ English industrial exp.; go anywhere,
but would prefer being away from Sydney
or Brisbane.—loSO.
Young couple want rent pleasant modern
brick cottage, Mosman. (Sydney), within
easy walk of wharves. No more than 325. 6d.
Take lease. —10S6.
To correspond with young persons in Syd-
ney interested in modern and expressionistic
drama. —10S5.
Copy of “Mostyn Steyne.” bv Roderic
Quinn (stiff covers only) ; also “Hits, Skits
and Jingles,” by W. T. Goodge.—loB4.
Bentley’s five-letter phrase-code. State
price. (Replies to Box 104, Broken Hill.)
Partnership or share in market garden,
either with beginner or someone with piece
of ground for vegetable growing, outside a
town; Queensland preferred. By energetic,
experienced, educated ex-soldier. (Replies to
L. G. Gothard, Boonjie Bag, Malanda, Q.)
Swap five vols. International Corres.
School’s Electric Lighting and Traction
Course for McFadden’s Encyclopaedia of
Physical Culture.—lo 23.
To sell home that would appeal very much
to the artistic temperament; at the head of
Little Sirius, Sydney Harbor, most beautiful
view; land terraced and planted with fine
palms, tree-ferns, etc.; weatherboard, five
rooms and kitchen; 40 feet of balcony.
Secluded yet accessible; 20 minutes from
the city.—999.
To sell collection cricket records, 1878-
1926, chiefly Wisden’s Almanacs, good con-
dition.- —1069.
To buy copy “Gay’s Fables” (verse) ;
also Carpenter’s “Reciter.”—lo7o.
I have been ordered to the North of Vic-
toria for my health. Does any reader know
of an opening for a butcher in a prosperous
Mallee town, or of a good business for sale'?
—1075.
To buy copies of “My Brilliant Career,”
by Miles Franklin.—loB2.
Information Sought.
What is the "best liquid, colored or clear,
to waterproof brick, stone or cement? —1042.
Equal parts of Stockholm tar and linseed
oil, thinned down, if necessary, with turpen-
tine. There is a preparation on the market.
“Solpar Weatherproof Oil,” 18s. 6d. per
gall. Do about 600 sq. ft.; can be got at
Nock and Kirby’s, Sydney. Or, if color is
objected to, procure the thickest linseed oil
possible—Meggitt’s may supply a special
quality—and give the wall two or three
coats.
How can I renew a mirror when the mer-
curial coating has started to peel off? —OS2.
Clean the glass carefully and allow it to
dry thoroughly. Then cover the back with
mercury or quicksilver, and apply a sheet
of unwrinkled tin-foil, smoothing out all
bubbles with one of the squeegee rollers used
in photography. When this is dry, cover
the back with a coat or two of liquid shellac,
varnish or paint. But it is a ticklish job
for an amateur.
Are shares in Amalgamated Textiles
( Aust .), Ltd., any good ? Though the eo.
was floated about four years ago, no divs.
have been paid, and the last balance-sheet
ivas not comforting. —9so.
The co. at last balance had over SO p.c.
of its capital represented by tangible assets;
and its mills had only lately got into their
stride. Whether it will pay dividends de-
pends on management and the strength of the
tariff. But, at any rate, earlier divs. could
not reasonably have been expected; and the
co. has got through the non-productive stages
at comparatively small sacrifice of capital.
Can a minor witness a will legally, or
would a will with one of the witnesses a
minor be illegal? —946.
It is inadvisable to have a will witnessed
by a person whom the law does not regard
as in all respects a responsible legal entity.
But the fact, in itself, that the witness is a
minor does not disqualify him provided he
is of an age and intelligence to enable him
to fully understand the act he performs and
the responsibility it carries.
llow do I become a dispensing chemist
(qualified)? I am a N.S.W. storekeeper
with plenty spare time. —929.
Before serving an apprenticeship of not
less than three years with a chemist in busi-
ness a preliminary exam, must be passed, or
proof of success in an equivalent exam, pro-
duced. During apprenticeship you should
attend lectures in botany, chemistry, materia
medica and practical. pharmacy at Sydney
Uni.; you must pass exams, in these sub-
jects, in addition to the final exam, in dis-
pensing and pharmacy. Some pharmacists
charge a premium (£5O to £100) for the
apprenticeship. Before entering into an
apprenticeship under the Pharmacy Act com-
municate with the secretary of the N.S.W.
Pharmacy Board, Richmond Terrace, Sydney.
Who was the maker of the first motor-car
and what year teas it put on the road? —9B6.
That can’t be answered without a defini-
tion of motor-car. There was a sort of
steam-driven carriage in France in 1769, and
a steam coach used to run between Chelten-
ham and Gloucester. But it was Gottlieb
Daimler who patented in 1884 an internal-
combustion motor using petroleum spirit and
thus took the first step towards the modern
automobile, the next step being the construc-
tion of a car in 1891 by Levassor and Pan-
hard, who had acquired the French patents
from Daimler.
When and where was the schooner Hes-
perus wrecked? —1060.
Towards the end of 1889 on the reef of
Norman’s Woe, a mass of rock standing out
from Gloucester, on the Massachusetts
(TJ.S.A.) coast.
Can you recommend a book for a novice on
principles of electric motors? —1068.
Two reasonably priced works that are
easily understood are “Electro Motors,” by
S. R. Bottone (65.), and “Electric Motors.
Direct and Alternating,” by D. P. Moreton
(95.). Dymock’s, 428 George-street. Sydney,
have them.
How much do brokers charge to buy or
sell investment shares?. —BB2.
In Sydney, up to Is., |d. per share; over
Is. and up to 35., Id.; rising gradually until
255. to 30s.> 5d.; 30s. to 405., 6d.’; over
405., li p.c. In other capitals there are
slight variations. For instance, Adelaide
starts at Id. up to Is., continues on the
Sydney scale up to 405., charges 71d. be-
tween 40s. and 60s. and up to Is. 6d. for
1505.-2005.; thereafter 1 p.c. Brisbane makes
it 1 p.c. for shares of 100 s. and over.
(1) The derivation of the word "parson"?
(2) Its proper meaning? —lo6l.
(1) We can’t take the word back beyond
the Latin personaj the parson is ‘’the per-
son,” or representative of the Church. (2)
It has a colloquial and a legal meaning.
Colloquially, in Australia, any clergyman;
though in England there is still a disposi-
tion in some parts to limit the term to the
clergy of the C. of E. In English law a parson
is a rector who is in holy orders. So a
vicar is not a parson, because he is not a
rector. And, of course, a rector may be a
layman—or a corporation, like the dean and
chapter.
Do Life Insurance offices pay out in full
in a case of suicide? —1074.
Every office has its own rule in the
matter. In most cases payment is made in
full after the policy has been in force for
two years upwards.
(1) How many revolutions per minute
docs a Ford engine make when the car is
travelling at 20 miles per hour? (2) What
is the ratio bcticecn crankshaft and road
wheels? (3) What is the best rust resistant
paint suitable for painting underneath side
of mudguards? —972.
(1) 810,126 revs, based on maximum
engine speed of 1600. (2 ) 3.63 to 1. (3)
A quick air-drying black paint is supplied
by Sherwin Williams, Ltd., P.O. Box 24,
Burwood (N.S.W.). Answers 1 and 2 are
based on the standard gear ratio.
What is present value of a Charles 11.
golden guinea (1668), good condition? —
1033.
Approx. £4 10s.—-depends on Mint mark.
(1) Is it necessary to have an education cer-
tificate and doctor’s cetrifieate to go into
a N.S.W. hospital to train as a nurse?
(2) If it is, where can I get coaching? —
1034.
(1) If you have not passed the Inter-
mediate or an exam, equivalent to it, you
will have to sit for one of the preliminary
exams, conducted by the Nurses’ Registration
Board, Dept, of Health, Macquarie-st., Syd-
ney. They are held during the first week of
February,'May, August and November ; fee is
55., and previous exam, papers can be got
at the Govt. Printing Office. (2) Metro-
politan Business College, 338 Pitt-st., Syd-
ney.
Are jobs to be had in Malaya by energetic
young men, as overseers, or something like
that, in connection with tin mines? —914.
Alluvial Tin, Ltd., 26 Jamieson-strcet,
Sydney, often requires young men, mostly as
winchmen on dredges. It will be glad to
hear especially from those who have had
experience on dredging plants in Victoria.
TV as Marconi the inventor of wireless? —
1019.
Many important discoveries had been made
before Marconi, in 1896, came on the scene.
In 1831 Faraday found that a current flow-
ing in one circuit produced effects in an
entirely separate circuit. That discovery
finally led to wireless. Clark Maxwell (1867)
and Hertz (1887) kept the ball rolling.
Oliver Lodge gave it a healthy push and
Marconi in 1896 gathered the loose ends
together and commercialised the discoveries.
What is the origin of the names “Bartle
Frere” and “ Bellendcn-Kcr” given to Queens-
land’s highest mountains? When were they
conferred ? —1066.
(1) Bartle Frere, the highest peak in
Queensland and in the Bellenden-Ker Range
(5287 feet), was named by C. E. Dalrymple
in 1873 after Sir Bartle Frere, president of
the Royal Geographical Society. London. (2)
Bellenden-Ker Range (5181 feet) was named
by Capt. P. P. King, R.N., of the Mermaid,
after .Tohn Bellenden-Ker, a friend of
botanist Alan Cunningham.
Is Ocean Island healthy and what is the
population, including whites? —1071.
Mr. W. Chambers, the Commission’s Syd-
ney agent, states that the island is healthy,
free from the fevers typical of the Islands,
has two hospitals and is sewered. Steamers
keep,, it well stocked with fresh provisions.
Population (1926) : Native, 598; European,
126; Chinese, 471; Pacific Islanders, 867.
Are coal ashes bad for the garden? If so,
why? —lo3l.
Yes. Too much carbon.
The best hind of paint for a house on the
sea front? —1031 A.
One having a zinc basis.
Information Supplied.
795. —Does a blue wash keep flies away?
I was renbvating a shop for a country
butcher. The building was painted a deep
blue inside, and the butcher asked me to do
it the same color again. “The flies don’t
seem to like that color,” he said. I have
been wondering since if this was known long
ago, and if “butchers’-blue” was the result.
—Sylvester.
G 36. —To make a kero, tin rust-proof.
Here are two busk methods. (1) Grease
tin inside with lard; then place over an
open fire for a few minutes. Expose inside
to flame. Stand for a while and repeat.
Then wipe clean with a piece of waste. (2)
Throw waste tea and tea-leaves for about
a week in tin. Fill with water and boil
three or four times, or until inside is stained
brown. Stain is fast and does not affect
anything boiled in it.—i Cog.
SSG.—To coax crows to take poison. If
suet is cut into dice, and a dab of S.A.P.
put in a slit with a match, then scattered
along a creek or near a fresh carcase or a
camp-fire,, often before a man is a hundred
yards away a crow will investigate and take
the bait and later die. S.A.I’. is the only
poison I know that crows cannot get rid of.
—Prop.
Does Anybody Know ?
Method of building a blacksmith's forge
in a ship’s tank?- —lO5O.
How to make a good surf ace on an earth
floor? —1051.
Name and address of Ihe firm that had thr
Melbourne agency for the Angus Sanderson
car? —lo72.
Brief Answers.
Nuces: Vnloss you are prepared to take
move than average risk, we don’t recommend either.
... .Annie L.: Sydney booksellers and publishers
all state they are overstocked with cookery books, and
expert opinion is against present publication. If,
however, you could persuade the society you are
connected with to give it official backing, you might
get a publisher to timidly tackle it... .G.A.M.:
Address Stall Board, Box 29, G.P.0., Sydney; endorse
envelope (left-hand top corner): “Application for
Employment”... .E. McK.: Hard to tell without
handling. Probably not Dresden, but an imitation.
The twisted rope is not a recognised mark of the
Dresden factories; it is a mark used in Staffordshire.
Probably not made before 1870... .G.S.M.: Sorry, this
is a Service, not a puzzle page... . M.G.L.: No, it isn’t
likely to do that. More likely it will sell its business
to some other c 0..., .P.C.U.: First see whether it
will issue you a paid-up policy... .G.R.McK.: We
don’t like those policies under which you back
yourself to live a certain number of years. Especially
if you’re fairly prosperous and have a young family
with the prospects of more, you want the largest
possible cover you can get for the years immediately
ahead of you; and the best policy for that purpose
is a whole-life. The next best (it may be the best
if you are not a first-class risk) is an endowment
maturing at, say, 65, or earlier death... .T.N.F.:
No doubt, Isa has the makings of a great mine; but
there will be many market ups and downs before
the first div. is paid.... J.R.N.: It’s a gamble; and
if you wanted to realise on your investment you
would probably find it difficult. .. ..J.V.: Stott and
Hoare and. Chartres, Ltd., 309-311 George-street,
Sydney; Re-built Typewriter Co., 305 George-street,
Sydney... .A.D.; Children’s Hospital, Herston-road,
Brisbane... .T.C.: One with considerable possibilities;
but you will probably have to wait for some years
for returns, and meantime you may find it hard to
sell if you want to. ... J.P.J.: If you put safety
first, there are scores better... .P. 8.: Probably will
see a lower figure. It is not the 44 hour week so
much as the fall in metals that has knocked the
share market to pieces. The metal market, though
there may be . temporary recoveries, will be weak
for some time to come. .. .R.M.: (1) William
Mitchell, built Londonderry 1892, 1885 tons, owned
by James A. Young, 20-28 Billiter-street, London.
Sydney agent, Capt. C. Green, 15 Spring-street.
(2) Gartlipool, built Dundee 1891, 2652 tons, owned
by Marine Navigation Co., of Canada, 42 St. Sacra-
ment-street, Montreal. London agent, H. J. Garth-
waite, 92-94 Gracechureh-street, London. Sydney
agent, American Trading Co., 40 King-street....
J.H.D. (Nuriootpa) : Sorry, but she has made herself
liable for the full face value of the shares. Don’t
know anything about the co. ; it has no history....
A.H.C.: Don’t take much notice of balance-sheet
statements of reserves. The ‘Wild Cat” Monthly's
table which shows “net tangibles” per share is
infinitely more valuable. And even then a large
amount of goodwill may really' be mixed up with
the machinery and plant. In other words, if the
goodwill ceases to be of any value, the machinery
and plant will have only scrap value.... Quest: But
that won’t tell you which is the better proposition.
An insurance office might, for instance, pay big
bonuses to-day at the expense of the. bonuses of the
next few years; and an office which is to-day making
large provision for contingencies, at the expense of
it;! present bonuses, may easily be the most profit-
able for a policy-holder during the next 20 years.
Better divide the risk.... Trelawny: N.S.W. Book-
stall Co., Castlereagh-street, Sydney... .F.G.C.: Don’t
know any drug called “Valencia.” If it’s Valerian,
you can get it from Elliott Bros., O’Connell-street,
Sydney. .. ..John T.: Manufacturing jewellers, such
as Angus and Coote, A. Saunders and Orchards, Ltd.,
all of George-street, Sydney, use cuttle-fish bone for
making moulds and occasionally buy from outsiders.
We don’t know of any other market. (2) If your
shells are rare, take or send them to Messrs. Tost
and Rohu, 26 Martin Place, Sydney; or write
describing them. .. .S.M. : W. Calnan, Thomas-street;
Evans & Co., 228 Pitt-street; William Inglis & Sons,
Ltd., Hunter-street —all Sydney.... (Many others
mailed.)


V
r
h
/
Tired?
Why should you be, when it
has been proved with facts
and figures that Sanatogen will increase
your vitality by about 23%, and when
a man like Cosmo Hamilton writes:
"Sanatogen enabled me to do
twice as much , twice as well.”
By infusing into the cells of blood and
nerves exactly those elements—phosphorus
and albumin—which are wanted, Sanatogen
conquers fatigue of both body and brain.
A few weeks’ use of Sanatogen will
give you back that youthful feeling
of energy and perfect health.
Determine to try
The True Tonic-Food ™ *5
Sanatogen is obtainable at all Chemists from 3/9 per tin.
GENATOSAN LTD., LOUGHBOROUGH. ENGLAND.
Peapes* Riding
Boots, 4R/“
Tan Ooze Hide Elastic-sided Riding Boots,
tuhole made, no seams, leather lining through-
out, leather tags, edge welts to suit stirrups,
double soles, narrow straps around anhles to
give a firmer grip and increase the durability
of the elastic.
Made of specially-selected leather to Peapes*
own specifications on Peapes* own lasts*
Sizes : 5-10. Fittings : E.F.
PEAPES
for Men and Boys
GEORGE STREET (opp. Hunter Street), SYDNEY
At Peapes’ Tobacco Department :
Ogden’s St. Bruno Flake Tobacco, 2 -tz. tins, 2/1 ; 16/- per lb.
Your Health!
1759
Guinness’s Stout
■ !927
The World Over
OBTAINABLE
EVERYWHERE


Graham Brothers
trucks
Low Costs
Low costs are a feature of Graham Brothers Trucks
throughout their long, profitable lives.
Initial cost is extremely low for such high quality
because Graham Brothers build more trucks than any
other exclusive truck manufacturer in the world.
Operating costs are low because of the low fuel
consumption of the famous Dodge Brothers engine.
Maintenance costs are low because Graham Brothers
Trucks, sturdily built of fine materials, seldom need
repair —and because genuine, fairly - priced repair
parts are always available when they are needed.
Parts and Service Here,
Canada Cycle & Motor Co. (Victoria) Pty., Ltd., Melbourne
Austral Motors, Limited, Brisbane—Townsville
The Standardised Motors, Ltd., Sydney
Waymouth Motor Co., Ltd., Adelaide
Winter bottom Motor Co., Ltd., Perth
1- CHASSIS ------
1 2 -TON CHASSIS
2- CHASSIS
2-TON CHASSIS (Long Wheelbase)
£325
£445
£485
£515
inn
A
A
•il J
r
UIl
V.
A
m
3
w
m
w
V'
S
*
4/8/'27
BUILT BY TRUCK DIVISION OF DODGE
BROTHERS, INC. SOLD BY DODGE
BROTHERS DEALERS EVERYWHERE.


The Royal Agricultural Society of Victoria.
Grand Annual Exhibition
NINE DAYS:
Thursday 15th to Saturday 24th September, 1927.
COMPREHENSIVE DISPLAY OF STOCK, AGRICULTURAL PRODUCE
AND INDUSTRIAL EXHIBITS.
SIXTY ACRES OF INTENSE INTEREST.
Liberal Programme of Prizes Amounting to Over £BOOO.
(Including Champion Prizes of Australia.)
Competitive Entries (except Ring Events) close Saturday at Noon, August 13.
Entries for Arena Events close Saturday at Noon, August 27.
Members’ Subscription, covering Badge and Two Ladies’ Tickets and Genera]
Privileges, £l/10/- per annum.
Life Members’ Subscription, £ 15/15/-. Extra Ladies’ Tickets, 10/6 each.
PRIZE SCHEDULES, ENTRY FORMS, ETC., ON APPLICATION.
HENRY SCHWIEGER, Secretary.
Xote Address TEMPLE COURT (9th Floor), 422 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE.
For They are Jolly Good Fellows
RESCH’S
LAGER, DINNER ALE,
PILSENER & STOUT.
RESCH'S
BITTER ALE,
AUSTRALIA’S BEST BITTER.
A nd so say all of us.
Western Australian Distributors:
BURNS, PHILP & CO., LTD., PERTH AND GERALDTON.
[1
SPORTING
NOTIONS
Under the Whip
Arcadius completed a memorable week for
A. J. Simpson, trainer R. VV. Evans and
jockey Don Wraight when he took the Gelli-
brand Hurdle, a two-mile affair, at Moonee
Valley last Saturday. Two hurdle races and
a jumpers’ flat was his record for the seven
days. T. M. Burke’s Longworthy, who had
not raced since his Flemington success, was
the early favorite for the Gellibrand, but
so much money came for Arcadius that the
pair went out at 9 to 4, Lough Ailoe (Frank
Leonard’s mount) being at 6 to 1 and Fiscus
at 7to 1. Bert Thompson took Longworthy
to the front, and he held that position for
a mile or so ; then Arcadius and Perchance
(20 to 1) went past him. Arcadius had the
outsider’s measure at the last hurdle and
beat him home by a couple of lengths ; Long-
worthy, who had jumped indifferently over
the last bit, was a length further back.
Piratic (unbacked) finished pretty well in
sixth place.
Clan Robert, who was making his first
appearance since Flemington, had the
steadier of 13st. in the Lindsay Gordon
Steeple, but w r as a 9-to-4 favorite neverthe-
less. Next in demand was Ancient Mariner
(4 to 1), while Nurse Maid (9 to 2) and
Glentronie (5 to 1) also had good support.
Clan Robert, Ancient Mariner and Glen-
tronie were always prominent, and
Mariner was just in front of the topw'eight
turning along the side the second time, Gion-
tronie and Pentagram being close up. Vt
the second last obstacle Pentagram fell, and
Clan Robert made a bad jump; Ancieu,'
Mariner, who never touched a fence, soon
settled Glentronie and won well by two
lengths, Melotte (20 to 1) beating Clan
Robert by a neck for third place. Bob
Inkson rode the winner, who carried lOst.
31b.; the time, 4min. 47lsec., was first class
for two miles and three furlongs.
Affirm (7 to 4) was a strong order for
the Glen Orla Handicap, 10 furlongs, but
never went like a winner, Duncan’s mount,
Vinstra (8 to 1), winning easily from the
ancient: Dukedom (5 to 2) and Military Lady
(8 to 1). By Lucknow —Auraria’s Daughter,
Vinstra is a half-brother to El Dorado. He
was a shocking disappointment to E. M.
Pearce, who sold him for 200 guineas or
thereabouts, but looks like coming good at
last. Duncan had another success —with
Bermosca (6 to 1) in the first division of
the Sunset Welter. The second division
went to the slippery Wolaroi mare Waranie
(4 to 1), who, like Arcadius and Ancient
Mariner, had scored the previous Saturday.
Seldom is form as trustworthy as that.
He * * *
Old Roisel (list. 121 b.) is favorite at pre-
sent for the V.A.T.C. Australian Hurdle,
which he has w t oii three times, in addition
to being placed twice. He is a wonderful
old horse, but Pildin (list. lllb.), whose
form in running second with 12st. 51b. to
Lough Ailbe at Aspeudale was really good,
is here preferred, .and so is Piratic (lOst.
131 b.), who looked well at Canterbury Park
recently and was finishing on at Moonee
Valley, a course which would hardly suit
him. Lady Rooka (lOst.) and Telarno
(lOst.) have chances; the marc is faster
than most hurdlers. However, this page is
going for Arcadius, whose recent perform-
ances have been quite out of the ordinary,
and who comes down from lOst. 21b. at the
Valley to 9st. 51b. Perhaps the judge will
place them: Arcadius, 1; Piratic, 2;
Pildin, 3.
* . * * *
There has been some very in-and-out run-
nine in Sydney lately, particularly in middle-
distance handicaps, and when Rawhetu (10
to 1) shot past Linatic (5 to 1) and Draw-
bridge (6 to 1) at the finish of the Club
Handicap, 10 furlongs, at Rosohill on Satur-
day a section of the crowd roared its dis-
approval. The ex-Maoriland gelding, when
heavily backed, had run badly in Draw-
bridge’s race at Canterbury Park the Satur-
day before; reckoning in Darby Munro’s 71b.
allowance, he was meeting the English horse
on 181 b. more favorable terms, and there is
no doubt that Rosehill, with its long
stretches, suited him Letter than Canterbury
Park, with its sharp turns. All the same,
reversals of form are trying even when the
’orse is to blame. Cadenza (16 to 1) also
pleased the bookmakers in the Auburn Han-
dicap ; she got a break on her field early and
did not come back to it, as in former races.
Boaster (9 to 2) began slowly but ran on
gallantly under his lOst. lllb. Chateau Tan-
HE WASN’T ON.
DR. SLASHER: “Hi there! ‘Safety First.’”
BILL (a good punter ): “W’at (hie) run shecond?”
unda (10 to 1), the only thing that ever
looked like catching Cadenza, was third and
Chris fourth; Cawnpore, the favorite, cut
up badly. Eric Connolly backed Little Coon,
one of his English purchases, in this handi-
cap, but left his money in the bags. The
keen Victorian, however, made no mistake
with Eaircroft (6 to 1) in tiie Rydalmere
Mile, this English selling plater making
hacks of an average lot of welter horses, of
which old Sea Risk (20 to 1) and the dis-
appointing Lady Clara (6 to 1) did best.
After the race there were inquiries about
Faircroft’s price for the Epsom, but he is
not engaged.
Bartle rode Faircroft in what was the
last race of the 1926-27 season. Oddly
enough, he was on the winner of the first
flat race of the new season—Exeeller (5 to
1) in the Bank Stakes at Canterbury Park.
Exeeller is trained by William Kelso, whose
own horse Fondant (6 to 1), by a
young brother ot Jimmv Pike-—the boy’s first
success —took the Holiday Handicap, though
Laird o’ Cockp Q n (3 to 1) would have won
if his rider hadn’t waited overlong for an
opening on the rails. Dr. Boazman had a
change of luck with his hitherto uncertain
chestnut The Dancer. Second to .7. R.
Hardie’s useful sprinter Golden Grist (7 to
2) in the Tellers’ Handicap, The Dancer
went one better in the Campsie Handicap,
for which he was 5 to 1 in a field of seven.
Possibly a mile is this Redfern gelding’s
pet distance, instead of six furlongs, as was
thought.
Some Warwick Farm fancies for Satur-
day :
Denham Court Handicap: Greenie, 1;
Lady Tliurza, 2.
Guildford Handicap: Glenariff, 1.
August Handicap: Edgardo, 1; Coello, 2.
Edenson Park Handicap: Zuleika, 1;
Hemisphere, 2; Bunting Wallace, 3.
* * * *
W. Kelso was the leading N.S.W. trainer
in 1926-27; his score was 24 outright wins,
four dead-heats, 22 seconds and 17 thirds,
and £20.000 in prize-money. He is not a
heavy bettor —on some of his winners he had
no more than a tenner —but he must, of
course, have shown a decent profit on that
side of his operations. W. Burke led among
fhe Victorians with 23 firsts, 17 seconds, nine
thirds and £12,000 in prize-money. S. David-
son was the outstanding N.S.W. jockey ; tak-
ing metropolitan meetings alone he had 58)
firsts, 42 seconds (including 3 dead-heats)
and 38 thirds —a wonderful achievement for
a lad who completed his articles during the
year. It is reported that Davidson received
£lOOO, for his winning ride on Piastre in the
Sydney Cup; whether ho did or didn’t, he
must have made more during the year than
the Prime Minister or the Chief Justice of
the High Court. W. Duncan topped the list
of Vic. jockeys for the third successive year.
His metropolitan total was 48| firsts, 35
seconds and 281 thirds.
* * * *
The N.S.W. Metropolitan Land Board has
unanimously recommended the refusal of the
Maroubra Speedway people’s application for
an amendment of their lease to permit them
to hold night “trots.” When ex-Minister
Lazzarini was piloting the Gaming and Bet-
ting Amendment Bill through Leg. Assembly
he obtained authority for increasing the
’mmber of metropolitan trotting meetings by
20 p.a. and for licensing another racecourse,
presently a member 'of the Speedway syndi-
cate was heard declaring that Lazzarini had
granted his co. a “provisional” license for
20 night “trots” p.a. at Maroubra, though
Lazzarini declared that it was not so. As
it happened, the terms of the co.’s lease made
it necessary to apply to the Land Board.
There was opposition from the police, local
residents and existing racing clubs, and the
application crashed.
Footbrawl
Beaten though it had been by Ipswich, as
well as Toowoomba, N.S.W. won the final
game of the Rugby League matches with
Queensland; it downed the Northerners at
Brisbane by 15 points to 11 and took the
rubber, three games to one. All four inter-
state matches were close things, total points
showing only 49 to 43 in the Light Blues’
favor; in Saturday’s affair Brain scored for
N.S.W. fight on time, the opening having
been made by Treweeke, and Hardy con-
verted. As in the Sydney tussles, tire N.S.W.
forwards must be given credit for the victory.
They have shown themselves possessed of
more dash and devil than the big fellows the
Queensland selectors have been affecting of
late for their vanguard, and were of greater
assistance to the backs in scrum and loose.
Treweeke (South Sydney) was in rare form
in the open work and Kelly (St. George)
again showed high merit as an all-round for-
ward. Queensland missed Aynsley and Gor-
man, both out of action through injury, but
the Ma State was again playing without
Wearing. Paten, in the backs, and the big
North Queenslander Christensen were notable
for the Reds. “Webby” Neill, the Sydney
referee, who had been specially invited to
Brisbane to take the match, in spite of earlier
Queensland objections to his refereeing in
Sydney, made a good fist of his job, but this
didn’t prevent him from being hooted by
some of the crowd at full-time. Still, referees
are born to that trouble as the sparks fly
upward.
In the Sydney competition South Sydney,
mostly composed of reserve-graders, made
Newtown look like change for thrippence,
winning by 34-9. A curious impression had
gained ground that “Newts” were going to
win, and a lot of people suffering from that
delusion attended. They left the ground con-
vinced that South’s reserve-grade side could
whip most of the alleged first-grade teams.
North Sydney scored again, this time against
Western Suburbs. 10-8; a good try by winger
Mulheron turned the trick. An improved
’Varsity team got home in an even game
against Balmain, 28 to 24, George Robinson,
Hie inter-State half-back of other days, taking
the base of “Bal’s” scrum. And St. George
scored 38-11 against a very scratch Glebe
side.
* * * *
The departure of the Waratahs and Univer-
sity’s commanding position—the Elue-and-
Gold cannot be beaten for the Schute Shield
if it loses all its remaining matches —have
taken a lot of interest out of the Rugby
Union premiership. Uni. overcame Eastern
Suburbs by 27 to 10, Bayldon playing an ex-
ceptionally good game in the ’Varsity for-
wards, though when at Sydney Grammar he
was a three-quarter. Manly continued in its
winning vein, beating Glebe-Balmain in a
boistei’ous game at the Village by 26-12.
North Sydney administered a 17-8 hiding to
the dispirited Western Suburbs, while
Y.M.C.A. avenged past wrongs by vanquish-
ing Randwick, 27 to 6.
The Victorian Rugby Union XV, which
did well against the Waratahs in Melbourne,
surprised N.S.W. critics by the game it put
up in Sydney on Monday against a really
strong Metropolitan side. The latter won
by 19 to 13, but was only a point ahead in
the closing minutes of the game; a deter-
mined try by Waddington settled matters.
The visitors were speedy, with a dashing
set of forwards, and have been well coached.
* * * *
Soccer’s star turn for the week was the
game at Wollongong between the perennial
Chinese side and Illawarra, the latter win-
ning by 6 goals to 3 after standing 5-0 at
half-time. The Chinese are to appear to-
night at Sydney Sports Ground in the first
electric-light game of football seen in Sydney.
The Canadian Soccer players finished up their
tour of Maoriland by beating Auckland 6-2;
they leave with a record of 19 games won,
two lost and one drawn.
* * H= X
The Australian-rulers staged their first
inter-State match of the season at Erskine-
ville, where N.S.W. easily beat Queensland by
111 (14-27) to 45 (6-9). The visitors are
a fine lot physically, but as “rough as bags”
where the standard of the game is concerned.
Yet time was when the Australian code had
it all its own way in Queensland —that is to
say, till the Rugby Union was formed in the
1880’s. Nearly every Queensland Rugby
Union rep. of those early days had learned
his football in the home-grown game.
* * * *
On Saturday 37,000 persons squeezed into
the little Richmond ground—the turnstiles
incidentally squeezing £ll2O out of them—
to view the collision of Collingwood’s Mag-
pies and the local Tigers, the teams being
then level for first place. The game was
fast and furious, without apoolgies but with-
out spite. The Tigers were better iu the
air and indulged in spectacular runs; their
forward work, however, was weak, or the
Magpie backs were too strong, and they
missed their captain, Geddes —out through
an injured shoulder. ’Wood, on the other
hand, is a solid, even, determined team,
rather business-like than showy, and it held
the upper hand throughout, winning by 84
points to Richmond’s 61. A noticeable
feature of the play was the Magpies’ superior
tactics ; they employed low, skimming kicks
against the wind and lofty punts with the
breeze behind them, and methodically played
to their wing forwards while Gordon Coven-
try, with two men minding him at centre,
was left alone. ’Wood is now in the lead
and has a capital chance of staying there.
Geelong, which outed North Melbourne, 123
points to 29, is next, level with Richmond;
Carlton, having beaten Essendon by 71
points to 63, is fourth. Melbourne, crashing
before Fitzroy with 77 points to latter’s S 9.
is at present out of “the four,” though, if
luck holds, it may yet squeeze in. Footscray
smashed Hawthorn, 85 to 67: and South
Melbourne walloped St. Kilda, 98 to 57. This
rout was enlivened by a copious brawl among
the barrackers. whose enthusiasm was only
cooled by a liberal application of police
batons.
* * * *
“Coot”: South Adelaide holds a unique
record among senior footbrawl teams. For
over 20 years it has not had a single player
reported for undue roughness or any other
offence on the field.
(Continued on page Jfl.)
THE SQUARED CIRCLE.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“ ‘lt was a strange fight,’ says the New York
Hf.hald, ‘as strange as the rumors which were flying
through the stadium when the bout started, as
strange as the shifting of the odds that made Dempsey
favorite an hour before the men entered the ring.
All the circumstances are startling, not to say
peculiar.’ ” — Cable.
Now seethes the tense, expectant throng,
Now sounds the loud, momentous gong,
Now supermen, as fierce as strong,
In bloody battle clash;
Now tapped are lountain-heads of gore,
Now knuckles bending ribs explore ;
They fight... .no, not because they’re sore,
For laurels, lad —and cash.
No shrine defiled, no pride defamed,
No memory of maiden shamed
Might loose such savag’ry untamed;
No knightly gage or vow
Gould to such valiant deeds impress,
Such heights of fury (or finesse)
As thoughts of fame one may possess—
Plus a few hundred “thou.”
Pause not to ponder, ’midst the squeals
That rise as a near-champion reels,
On somersaulting bets, and wheels
Half-hidden wheels within ;
To dream of doubting such affairs
Where men are men, and rings are squares,
And pugs potential millionaires,
Would be, my son, a sin.
Think not of curious rumors spread,
Think but of heroes who have bled,
Who’re wounded sore, but hardly “dead,”
E’en when the fight is done;
And though a din rude papers make,
And though wfithin you doubts awake,
Be glad that, if it was a fake,
’Twas a million-dollar one!
VICTORIA.
HASEN.


'lf/ M N\7j\r\\
urn.
m
m
Vl'
I
'
wsk
m
m
f?
’’fur
m.
s/‘
m
■-X
m
|f
in
s
m.
m
m
&
I§
A
Hi
KS
wr
iir
W&.
W
m
V
HARDT'S
SJPA RJKLIJVG


The New Reinforced Breech
ĥ
34-in. Barrel.
22 Cartridges.
AUSTRALIA, more than any other country in the world, requires a gun strong in the breech
because our varying temperatures generate such high pressures in Explosives Having
a long experience of sporting conditions here, we have all our Guns made to suit these reauirement«
and the latest addition to Specially Made Models is the long distance Reinforced Breech Sino-lo
Barrelled Gun. It has full choke, finelv-bored 34m. steel barrel, snap fore-end top lever !
ejector, half-pistol grip. Weight 71b. 6oz. p le ' er ’ automat!c
Va
LTD
PTY
Price 75/-. Also 36in. ( 80/-
Postage 4/- all over Australia.
518 LITTLE COLLINS STREET,
MELBOURNE.
HEWSO
THE WONDER CLEANSER,
Removes TAR, GREASE, PAINT, etc., from your hands instantlv
in COLD WATER.
Unexcelled for cleaning BATHS, SINKS, KITCHEN UTENSILS,
etc. Removes RUST AND BURNS from SAUCEPANS.
Can be used as a BODY SOAP.
NO SODA.
Leaves Your Hands Like Velvet.
lid. PER Boz. TIN.
ASK TOUR GROCER, OR DIRECT FROM
GENERAL DISTRIBUTING CO., LTD.,
Wembley House, Railway Square, Sydney.
COUNTRY AND INTERSTATE AGENTS WANTED.
Footbrawl
(Continued from page 39.)
“Squish'': There is something intriguing
in the news that two Bathurst (N.S.W.)
colleges are playing a combination of Rugby
and Australian football. For years the two
schools had played Rugby Union; then one
of them went over to the League code, and
t'other abstained. They stood the separation
for 12 years, and have now met on common
ground again. How they have reconciled
the apparent polarity of the two codes is a
puzzle. The fundamental of the Rugby game
is that a ball cannot be passed forward;
Australian rules say it not only can but
should be. In between are a million minor
variations, but that is a tough enough hurdle
to surmount. Apparently the Bathurst
schoolboys have solved a problem which
baffled the Sydney Rugby League.
* * 4? *
“Flagwagger”: A Melbourne football
crank of my acquaintance has invented a
sort of parlor football, and runs a competi-
tion of his own, playing one game every
afternoon except Saturday. His “oval” is
lift, by 9ft., and is marked out with chalk
on the floor of a spare room without fur-
niture. At each end are miniature goal and
behind posts. The players consist of 12 sets
of half-inch squares of cardboard, each set
representing a League club. The sets are
colored, and on the reverse side of each piece
of cardboard is the name of a League player.
The “ball” is a small cotton-reel with one
rim pared to make the thing roll in a slight
curve, thus simulating the effect of wind.
The crank is the umpire, as well as other
things. To play a game, say, between Rich-
mond and Geelong, he places his “men” on
the miniature oval in the positions occupied
by the flesh-and-blood ’bailers in the last
match between the clubs mentioned, and
drops the “ball” in the centre. When it
comes to a standstill he picks it up and
places it against the nearest player. Then,
putting a finger on the ball, he sets it gently
rolling towards a player of the same side.
If it touches a player a mark is awarded
and that player “kicks” towards one of his
team mates; if it stops without having been
marked it is given a slight knock in the
opposite direction; in fact, it is knocked
backwards and forwards until marked. Free-
kicks are awarded only when the ball is
kicked or knocked out of bounds, and goals
can only be compassed by forwards after a
mark. As there is not much room between
the full-back and each goal-post, and as the
ball travels in a slight curve, goal-kicking is
difficult. There are four quarters of 25
minutes each, and the teams change ends
after each quarter, as in dinkum football.
It seems a ridiculous pastime, but the in-
ventor swears that he gets a lot of fun out
of it and that it would brighten the lot of
many an invalid.
M.Q. (and Rafferty) Rules
Billy Harms, the latest imported middle-
weight to make his bow at the Sydney
Stadium —he came from S. Africa by way
of U.S.—has added to his reputation at the
expense of Charlie Ring. Harms scaled
list. If lb. when he met the Victorian, lately
returned from a long visit to Britain : Ring's
weight was given as list. 511 b., but he
looked the lighter man. Harms set about
Ring from the bell, pasting him about the
body with both hands, while Ring .made a
lot of threatening gestures. Billy has a
useful left hook and it repeatedly made pain-
lul contact with the Melbourne man’s jaw.
The third round was not a minute old when
William sent a left rip to the base of the
stomach. It was a low hit, beyond a shadow
of a doubt, but the referee, being right be-
hind Harms, did not see the foul. Ring
went to the canvas and Wallis placidly
counted him out. It was a poor fight (though
Harms is by no means a poor fighter), and
the attendance was not a tenth of that at
Upping, where the hounds rush after the
tin hare.
* * * *
Walter Miller (12st. 41b.) made his re-
appearance on the mat at Melbourne on
Saturday opposed to Louis Pergantas (12st.
51b.). The American opened proceedings by
securing a toehold that made Louis pull
faces. So diligently did Wally concentrate
on the toes that the Greek must have wished
he could have left ’em at home; he spent
much of the evening enduring what he
couldn’t evade. Miller, for his part, slipped
through the ropes whenever danger threat-
ened ; he was a frequent visitor to the press
table, though uninvited. Miller secured the
only fall of an uninspiring match with a re-
verse wristlock in the fifth round.
* * * *
“8.M.”: Sydney Stadium has been the
scene of many interesting incidents quite
outside the fights themselves. There was
one the night Rudie TJnlioltz was fighting
Johnny Summers. Rudie had been making a
post of himself around the two-up schools,
and the master of one seminary was justifi-
ably sore. So he attended the Stadium,
knelt right up against the reporters, and
gibed at Unholtz as lie was being groomed
between rounds till the alleged Boer was
raving mad. “Geddoud, you big stiff,” he
shouted. "I dot you in here vos vish ; I you
vould keel, you loafer!” “Why don’t you
kill Summers—he’s half killing you,” was
the retort. And so it went on, till the
fraudulent “Boer” was licked like a dinner-
plate in a dog-kennel.
Racquet and Bawl
“Base Line”: S. G. hum, who has.played
for Victoria in inter-State matches, has been
“claimed” by China to represent that country
in the lawn-tennis tourney at the Far Eastern
Olympic Games, which open in Shanghai on
August 27, and has left Australia accordingly.
China’s right to his services is dubious. Aus-
tralian and South African cricketers playing
in England have been requisitioned by visiting
cricket teams from their own countries, and
there is a definite ruling on the subject.
But hum is a British subject, and under
Olympic rules cannot represent any other
than a British country, and that the one of
his domicile. As a player, Lum will be an
acquisition to the Chinese team, for he is a
first-class doubles man, at least.
* * * *
“Cut Shot”: Not all the “solidarity” is con-
fined to Trades Hall circles. The other day
the N.S.W. Tennis Association notified ail
its affiliated members, as well as those con-
nected with the hard courts body, that the
Dulwich Hill organisation is “black.” From
the date of the notification, any player from
the union who tackles pat-ball with the out-
laws will be reckoned (though one hates to
use the dreadful word in connection with such
a genteel pastime) a “scab.” There seems
THE VALVE OF ATHLETICS.
Mr. Smith, the old international half-back, and Mrs. Smith, who skippered her basket-
ball team at college, experience no difficulty in keeping baby amused.
to be ground here for an approach to the
Arbitration Court, but perhaps Dulwich Hill
will retaliate by declaring the association
“black.”
* * * *
The Davis Cup competition was carried
a step further When Japan outed Mexico
and won the right to meet Canada in the
next round. The match was played at St.
Louis, U.S.A. “Mexicans" Kinsey and But-
lin. won the doubles from Ilarada and
Shimizu, but Ilarada beat Alfonso Unda in
three straight sets, while Yoshero Oata de-
feated Kinsey in a five-set battle and later
downed Unda.
The Nineteenth Hole
“Divot Digger": Joe Kirkwood, the finest
golfer that Australia has yet produced, has
told the truth about himself. It is a truth
that the great majority of golf players will
acquiesce in, in their secret souls—and the
secret soul of a confirmed golfer is a solemn
thing. Joe has confessed to an interviewer
that he has acquired every point of mastery
over the game Save one—the ability to hit
the ball in the centre. Unhappily for him,
and for most of us, that faculty is the very
keystone of the game, and one that has never
been acquired, with all clubs, by any living
genius, unless one excepts Bobby Jones —
and they tell me that even Bobby is so
shaky on his shots through the green that
he takes every advantage of his tremendous
driving power to put him up within iron
distance of the pin. Joe says he is going
back to America to get that “centre.” Players
like myself and Harry Vardon have been
trying to get it these 40 years. I can’t
speak for Vardon, of course, but, personally,
I'm feeling inclined to tear up my card.
* * * :|:
“O’Smith”: The Avoca (Vic.) Golf Club,
with only 26 male members, paying an annual
sub. of 55., has just held its yearly tourna-
ment. There were 1500 entries —a record,
I should think.
* * * *
“Ananias, Jun.”: That story of the lizard
and the golf ball (B. 28/7/’27) will appeal
to every golfer who can spare the time from
his chief reason for existence on occasional
nature study. I am thinking of Blenkinson
of our club, who is a past grand president of
the local S.P.C.A. one day he rescued a frog
from the attentions of a group of caddies
and restored the grateful creature to a small
swamp beside the fairway. Some days later,
competing in a stroke competition, lie found
himself on par with Bogey at the 17th. The
last was a five hole, and a splendid drive
put him in high hopes of a winning card,
but the ball, with a final, malignant effort,
crawled into the swamp referred to. When
Blenkinson gloomily reached the spot, he
was amazed to See the rescued frog climb out
of the water carrying the ball under one
arm. Carefully placing the ball in an excel-
lent lie, the grateful creature put a finger to
its lips and, winking significantly, plunged
into the water. There was no witness near
by—B.lenkinson’s caddy had gone to rescue
his driver from the rough where Blenkinson
had hurled it when he saw his ball take
water, and his adversary was engaged in a
bunker. A most upright individual, Blen-
kinson, though a golfer, was human. He
was on the pin with his mashie shot in 2,
and holed in 3, taking the competition. It
was later, when elected to Parliament, and
left with no character to lose, that he
brazenly confessed his guilt.
* * * *
Arthur Havers, who did so well in the
recent British open championship and the
rich Gleneagles tourney for professionals, is
usually acclaimed an American, but he is
English-born. He qualified for the open in
1913 when only 16. and won it from the
American crack. Walter Hagen, in 1923. In
America later he beat Bobby Jones, then
American open champion, and also Gene
Sarazen in matches. Nowadays he is pro-
fessional at Coombe Hill Club in Surrey.
* * * *
“Ploughman": Playing at Kensington
(N.S.W.) on Monday, Frank Eyre, the Long
Reef club’s professional, did tlie 18 holes of
the first round in 69 (35 out and 34 in),
breaking the course record of 60, -which had
stood to the credit of Arthur Spencer, now-
in Queensland. Eyre took 75 for his second
18 holes—l 44 for the match, or 154 plus
his handicap. Five twos were included in
the score.
“Cash Amateur”: Next cricket season
will be a bumper in N.S.W. if the agreed-on
programme is carried out. In addition to a
full home-and-home Sheffield Shield series
among four States, Tasmanian, Westralian
and Maoriland sides will figure on Sydney
Cricket Ground. The Maorilanders, fresh
from their English tour, are due in October.
Car and Cycle
“Hip-Hip”: Everyone who has been
roused from slumber or half-deafened by the
shattering exhaust of a motor-cycle will re-
joice to hear that an absolutely silent jigger
of the breed has been discovered. The writer
was the discoverer, and the modern miracle
was bowling along College-street, Sydney,
with a nice-looking girl in breeches and
gaiters guiding, it. There was not a whisper
of sound from the contraption. Closer inves-
tigation showed that the driving chain was
missing and that the cycle was being towed
by a motor-car, behind which it seemed, at
first, that the riderette was sheltering.
* * * %
“Rolls-Liz”: Those optimists who assert
that the modern car has got as near per-
fection as possible are talking through their
bonnets. What is wanted now is an inventor
who can think of a means of utilising more
of the potential energy of motor spirit than
any ear can accomplish at present. The
actual conversion into propulsive power is
only about 20 per cent, of the fuel con-
sumed, the remainder being wasted. Of, say,
2.000,000 gallons only about 500,000 do any
worth-while work. With petrol supplies visi-
bly diminishing the problem is an important
one. Designers will have to try to get a
maximum thermal efficiency by using the
highest compression ratio compatible with
freedom from “knocking,” the efficiency of
all i.c. engines being proportionate to' the
compression ratio.
* ❖
“Hush”: There is reason for rejoicing in
roadmaking circles, to say nothing of rubber-
growing interests, in the report of London
City Council’s chief engineer on some recent
experiments in rubber-block street-paving.
Six months ago, this paving was laid down
in New Bridge-street, which runs from
Blackfriars Bridge to Ludgate Circus, be-
tween the Thames Docks and the great city
markets, and carries the heaviest motor and
general traffic in London. Examined the
other day, the paving shows no sign of creep
or disturbance. The blocks give no indica-
tion of wear, and the paving is noiseless.
* * *
“Chevroford” : I name the overloaded motor-
cycle as the worst peril of the road. The
too-burdened car still more or less main-
tains Its centre of gravity in the right place,
but nobody knows where the c.o.g. of a
cycle is when all available space is packed
with passengers. The other evening a Mel-
bourne young man put his mother, father
and baby sister in the sidecar and his best
girl behind him. He struck a bad patch of
road, and to avoid a car tried to swerve to
the left. Instead of responding to the helm
the unbalanced machine went straight on
and hit the car. Mother and father were
distributed over the landscape and baby
sister was killed. The best girl escaped un-
scathed. She just stepped off when she saw
trouble was brewing.
“Chevroford”: The Yic. Railways Com-
missioners took a census of motorists pass-
ing two well-known death-traps, the cross-
ings at Werribee, on the Geelong-road, and
on the Cranbourne-road, Dandenong. Out of
1895 vehicles 690 reduced speed. Of 1205
that didn’t 706 looked both ways, 339 one
way and 160 down their noses. Of the
slowers-down 426 looked both ways. 186 ope
way and 78 no way at all. And this is
actually an improvement on last year’s
figures.
* * * $
“Chevroford” : In the usual Monday morn
ing list of motoring accidents in Vic. there
were tw T o curiosities recently. One was a
man who was picked up unconscious and
was unable to say what put him in the
trance until some boys said he fell off a
motor-car —apparently the other occupants
didn’t miss him or hadn’t time to stop and
pick him up. Another mysterious item was
the story of the driver who was bumped out
of his seat in a motor-lorry crowded with
football barrackers coming from a match.
He was picked up dead, but nothing was
said about the motor-lorry. Presumably it
is running still.
(Continued on page 1)2.)


QN
BANK
THE QUEENSLAND NATIONAL BANK, LIMITED.
Incorporated under the Companies Act 1863. Established 1872.
Directors —A. C. Luva, Esq., Chairman; James Love, Esq.; W, H. Hart, Esq.;
M. J. Ryan, Esq.; D. W. Macdonald, Esq.
General Manager— M. G. HAYMEN.
HEAD OFFICE BRISBANE
With offices at London. Canberra (Federal Territory), Melbourne, Sydney, and
05 branches in Queensland and Northern Rivers, N. S. Wales, also representation
, through the leading Banking Institutions covering Australasia and the World, this
dullest facilities for the transaction of all general banking business.
Ericsson Telephone Mfg. Co.
(Formerly James Paton & Co.)
Sole Importers of the Famous Ericsson Telephone and Switchboard
Apparatus, for Magneto, Common Battery and Automatic Working.
WIRELESS APPARATUS,
19 YORK STREET, SYDNEY; 509 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE.
Visitors to Brisbane! Book up at the
OTEL CECIL
(FIRST CLASS)
Reasonable Tariff—Good Position.
v >!
ħ
Write
to
Dr si: B.
MARTIN DITCHER’S TRIUMPH.
Mr. H. L. Tooth. Murami Irrigation Settlement, on
the Murrumbidgee, writes: —
“The ten acres of rice field yielded me 144*
bushels. I consider the-use of the Martin Ditcher
reduced the cost of ditching and check bank work
by 50 per cent.”
The photograph shows a section of Mr. Tooth's
fine field which was recently described in the Agri-
cultural Gazette. Many other rice farmers are
now using the Martin Ditcher.
CHAEEIS HOUSE,
MARTIN PEACE, SYDNEY.
490 Eittle Collins Street, Melbourne.
Campbell’s Buildings. Creek Street, Brisbane.
T. T. Buildings. Eight Square, Adelaide.
Queen Street, Perth. S.B.
Car and Cycle
“Chevroford”: Amongst the procession of
round-Australia motorists, F. Woodward and
R. Mayor, who pushed off from Melbourne
on July 2.‘> in a standard Buick Six shod
with Dunlops, are unique. The trip has
been done so often that merely getting round
is commmonplace. Woodward and Mayor
propose to do it with all speed ; barring acci-
dents. they reckon that the 8000 miles should
take them less than five weeks.
“Disc Clutch”: A fine motoring exploit
came lo an end when Mrs. Sandford and
Miss Christie reached Sydney after an ad-
orer-Australia tour which covered 11,050
miles. The run was from Sydney to Perth,
and back to Adelaide; then on to Darwin
by way of Alice Springs and back to Adelaide
again ; and home, via Melbourne, to Sydney.
It is claimed to be the longest single run
ever covered by a woman motorist, and very
likely it is. The car was an enclosed Essex
Six. tlu> first enclosed car ever seen in the
N.T., and the most serious trouble encoun-
tered was bush-fires when coining south
again from Darwin.
“Garry”: After pondering over the used-
car problem till their heads are ready to
bust. Yankee motor traders have come to the
conclusion that the best thing to do with the
old-uns is to tear them to bits and put them
on the junk heap. The example was set
years ago by one of the biggest sewing-
machine manufacturers. Whenever an old
machine was taken in as part payment for
a new one the concern paid a fixed price for
the old contraption without even looking at
it. Then it sent someone round to take the
head off. and as soon as he got back to the
depot with his trophy a man with a sledge-
hammer gave the mechanism five or six
mighty welts. Competition for motor sales
in America has now got so keen that used-
car allowances have to be written off as
almost total loss, and it seems wise to sales-
department heads to cut off that source of
lofjs at the meter.
“The Juice”: A couple of Queenslanders
have been doing their bit to solve the motor-
fuel problem. A week or so ago Captain
Saunders and T. Tjeigh reached Brisbane
from Mackay in a Ford, having driven the
whole way—and it is a long journey over
infernal roads —on power alcohol produced
from molasses. The pair, as well as Captain
Plant, Avho was a passenger, are connected
with the National Power Alcohol Co., of
which so much is expected in Queensland.
That portion of Mackay’s molasses that
wasn’t tipped into the river has hitherto been
devoted to the manufacture of rum. With
the use of alcohol as a fuel for internal-
combustion engines becoming increasingly
recognised there will be little to spare for
even that worthy purpose in the days to
come.
Miscellaneous
“The Gaffer”: That 10,000-metre cross-
country race in Sydney (B. 28/7/’27) re-
minded me of the walking and go-as-you-
please matches that once drew a lot of
money—they wouldn’t pay shoe leather now.
The seven-day contest —eat, sleep and travel
as you liked —had a great vogue, in England
and America especially. I was concerned
in one myself in Queensland. There was no
place we could walk it in, so a road hoof from
(’roydon to Charters Towers was arranged.
We had a couple of mounted* men for each
walker as guides, with packhorses for swags
and tucker, and readied the finish at Charters
Towers, placing our bets accordingly. But
some of the talent squared the coves in
charge of the winner that should have been
to take him to Cloncurry, and their man
finished at The Towers on his pat. A
dirty lot of dogs hang round the best of
sports.
* * * *
“P.D.” : The French Senate went sour on a
grant of frogskins for the show at Amsterdam,
and the local lads were thinking of calling it all
oil’. M. Caty, of Figaro, a Parisian publica-
tion which resembles the Sydney Herald as
far as general prosperity goes, hopped in
with an offer of a million frogs to pay the
amateur lads’ expenses to Holland, whether
the Government throws in or not; so to
Holland they will go. Considering the dead-
broke condition of the Australian Olympic
funds, and the announcement that at least
flO,OOO will be required, the time seems
cherry-ripe for some of Australia’s leading
journals to pass the hat. Exhibitions of
female flesh in one-piece bathing costumes
have closed, temporarily at least, and it’s
too early yet for the October brides. Give
the poor cows of men a chance for once!
There would be more joy in Australia over
one winner at Olympia than over 99 also-
rans at Hollywood.
❖ * J*.: *
“Bamboo”: The N.S.W. Polo Association
had a fine crowd at Kensington (N.S.W.)
racecourse when the finals of the Dudley
and Garvan Cups were decided. The coveted
Dudley event was carried off for the third
successive year by the Harden team, who
beat Goulburn, after a splendid battle, by
8 goals to 0. The game was uncommonly
fast and willing, and both ponies and riders
were glad to cry enough at the finish. The
combined work of the Ross brethren was
the chief factor in Harden’s success. The
Garvan Cup, after a neck-aud-neck go, went
to Scone, whose team beat Sydney No. 1
7-6. Crane did great things for the country-
men.
“Number Three”: The most attractive
feature of the Dudley Cup polo in Sydney
-—and that is not said in any disparagement
of the standard of play—was the show of
polo ponies which was inaugurated at this
year’s meeting. It is an accepted axiom of
polo that the better the ponies the better
chance their riders have of winning; a badly-
mounted team of high ability and combina-
tion may worry through, but in the general
average the ponies tell. And even their
qualities of breed and conformation do nor
count so much as their “handiness.” That
explains, perhaps, why, at the pony show,
the mounts of the Ross brothers, who make
up three of the Harden club four, practically
wiped the floor with the other entries. In
the judging only 30 points were awarded
for conformation: handiness and perform-
ance were given 70. The perfect handling
of the Harden ponies by their riders brought
them home. It was a case of good show-
manship on horses.
“Oxmead”: Mead, the Hampshire pro., has
just added himself to the select bunch of
batsmen —the late W. G. Grace, the retired
Tom Hayward and the evergreen Jack Hobbs
—whose centuries in first-class matches run
into three figures. Woolley and Hendren
may yet arrive at this crowning glory of a
cricketer’s career; they were both in the
seventies at the end of last season. C. B.
Fry, with 94 hundreds, got nearest to the
magic circle among those who must for ever
remain outside it. Of Australians, with
much more limited opportunities, only Bards-
ley and Macartney have secured over 50
centuries, their tallies being 56 and 51. There
follow, teste Wisdom Armstrong (46). Hill
(45), Trumper (43). Noble (37) and Col-
lins (36). The figures don’t include last
season’s play, but. I don’t think they were
altered thereby.
* * *
“Tenth Slip”: There is a Gilbertian flavor
in the news that Arthur Richardson is to
go to England to play professional cricket
with the Bacup League club while Patsy
Jlendren is to come, to South Aus. as a
coach. ' It seems rather like swapping cheese
for chalk to let a bowler go abroad and
replace him with a batsman, great as Patsy
is. Hendren will be eligible to play for
South Aus. after three months' residence,
though he is unlikely to do so if it means
that he will be unable to reappear for Middle-
sex. It is improbable that Richardson will
follow in Macdonald’s footsteps and figure
in the Lancashire XI.
W. WILLIAMSON, vice-president of the
Maoriland Hockey Association, and
manager of the All Black side now in
Australia. In their first match at Mel-
bourne they dreW, 4 — 4. with Victoria.
“Shrewsbury”: When Syd Smith was
absent in England with the Australian XI
some of his friends in Sydney manoeuvred
him out of office in the Cricket Association
councils, in which he had been a prominent
figure for years. He could climb in again
only as a delegate from the juniors, who
went out of their way to defeat the cabal.
Later he was dropped from the Board of
Control, whose secretary he had been. In the
breast of the N.S.W. Association, between
which and the Federal body there is as much
love lost as would cover the point of a needle,
at once revived the apparently dead embers
of the old, old love. Anyway, the annual
meeting elected Syd vice-president the other
day, and he is reported as having received
an ovation. What the Board of Control will
do by way of riposte remains to be seen.
* * * *
“Gate”: The annual report of the N.S.W.
Cricket Association puts that body in the
capitalistic class, for it is now worth £.‘10,165
16s. Bd. Receipts from Sydney Cricket
Ground were £2258 16s. 6d.. and the Shef-
field Shield games yielded £2025 10s. 4d.,
Colonel J. F. WHITE, of the Wanderers,
who made their first appearance in the
Dudley Cup competition. He is mounted
on Posy, one of the best polo ponies
in Australia.
while rents from the association's George-
street building totalled £3327 2s. 6d. Profits
on the English tour brought in £2333 (is. Bd.
One pleasant featui’e of the report, which
does not appear in many others of the kind,
is the fatness of the cricketers’ fund. This
now totals £lB4O 15s. Id., and only £lO had
to be paid out last year. With all that brass
standing on its edges, it is now up to the
association to persuade the Board of Trustees
to cut, something off the Ned Kelly charges
for admission to the Sydney Cricket Ground,
which have been a sore point with the pay-
ing public for a long time.
M. L. Hayes has won the N.S.W. amateur
billiards championship from Nick Winter, of
Olympic liop-step-and-jump celebrity, by 1800
to 1171. He averaged 14 for the match and
had 87 for his highest break, Winter’s best
being 45. Hayes collected, both State and
Australian titles last year, the latter in
Brisbane.
“Slide”: Sydney University’s annual re-
gatta on Blackwattle Bay (N.S.W.) pro-
vided a couple of surprises. One was the
defeat of JYlosman by Uni. in the Invitation
Eights, and the other the victory of Scott,
of the Ilaberfield club, over R. Pearce, the
Australian amateur champion, in a sculling
handicap. Scott, who was receiving 15sec.,
won by two lengths, with the champion, who
waited too long, catching him fast. The
Inter-Faculty Eights were won by the “Yets”
from Science, while St. Paul’s took the
Inter-Collegiate Eights.
“Alwyn” : The Royal Sydney Yacht Club
had a birthday last month. The oldest club
of its kind in Australia, it dates back to
•Inly S, 18(52, when it was solemnly formed
in an office in Bridge-street, Sydney. The
document drawn up on that occasion is still
extant: it contains the names of James Mil-
son (junior), William Walker, J. P. Rox-
burgh, T. Rowntree, S. C. Burt, S. Spain,
,T. Josephson, James Freeman, R. Garrett,
Charles Parbury. ,T. Jackson. 11. Threkeld,
R. Harnett, 11. Milford. A. W. Pockley, H.
C. Hangar, 11. S. Russell, J. T. McLean and
■T. W. Brooks.
“Stump Jump” : Touching blind men who
play cards (B. 14/7/’27), I travelled in the
same railway carriage with three blind
musicians who played poker with a Braille
pack. Bets were paid over after each hand.
What struck me most was the poor chaps’
faith in one another. The dealer had un-
limited opportunities of dealing with the
pack face upwards and feeling each card he
handed out.
Business, Robbery., etc.
“F. J.E.”: Within a few weeks the Queens-
land Government took delivery of a hopper-
dredge built on the Clyde and 25 locomotives
from England. Meantime, retrenchment is
the order of the day at \\ alker s shipyards,
Maryborough, and at the Ipswich Goi em-
inent railway workshops.
-i- * * *
“A.H.C.”: “T.AY.’s” old windmill, 29ft.
in diameter (B. 7/7/'27), may be the big-
gest in Australia, but it would be called
a baby in M.L. Partington’s windmill in
Auckland has a diameter of (Oft. It has
been running SO years, operating a tiour-
mill, and will run a lot longer when re-
pairs, now being undertaken, are carried
out.
... ... * *
“Caesar Borgia”: Cattle sold at Fleming-
ton (N.S.W.) saleyards have been branded
with gas-tar for the past 40 years. ' Prop
(B. :>O/6/’27) might note that the Meat
Board, following on a complaint by the
S.P.C.A. before the war, tried to compel
drovers to use a non-irritant paint as a
substitute. However, the cheap tar product
won. The board still has the power ro
enforce a by-law dealing with the matter.
* * * *
“A.A.S.”: Coal isn’t sent to Newcastle yet,
but the time may come. Adelaide’s tramways
and gas co. have imported 14.000 tons of
coal from Yorkshire. Not so far back the
foundry coke used in S.A. and Westralia
came from the Illawarra (N.S.W.) district.
Recently these States have been using Ger-
man supplies, and the latest price increase
in N.S.W. will add to the foreign advantage.
“Matar”: The shelves of the average dis-
pensary contain dozens of medicines and
preparations which arc prescribed only once
in 10 years, if ever. The chemist has to
slock them, and stand a considerable capital
outlay on which there is no chance of a
return. The British pharmaceutical organisa-
tions are endeavoring to induce the medical
profession to agree not to prescribe any of
these out-of-date remedies. Australian drug-
gists might copy with advantage.
❖ ❖ ❖ *
“Nikki” : The extent to which the tobacco
trade has been Australianised is shown in a
booklet issued by the British-Australian
Tobacco Co.. Ltd. The co. manufactures in
Sydney 36 brands of pipe tobacco (one all
Australian-grown and another a mixture of
Australian and American), 14 brands of
cigarettes and 15 brands of cigars. Each
brand is made up in a variety of styles, and
an exhibit of one sample of each item in
the range would comfortably fill the average
city tobacconist's show-window.
“Neil”: Despite “Bill R.” (B. 23/6/’27)
the freezing-works on lVlonaro (N.S.W.) were
forced to shut down because the trappers
found it paid better to trap for the skins only,
and not because of the shortage of bunnies.
Skin-buyers at Nimmitabel, Adaminaby and
Jindabyne, at all of which places freezing-
works were forced to put up their shutters,
are buying well over a ton of skins at each
place weekly, and a ton of skins represents
at least 6000 pairs of rabbits. It was tie*
fact that butchered skins are worth only
about half the value of sleeved skins in the
market that put the freezers out of business.
“Retired Volt” : Mussolini, in his zeal for
Italianisation, has given the Italian wireless
operator something to ponder over by for-
bidding the use of foreign words. Although
French is the official language of inter-
national communication, Britain was the
pioneer in telegraphy, and British words and
phrases are in common use wherever men
tap the key. Even the Chinaman translates
“telephone” into characters, which, although
they mean “virtue-doctrine-wind,” have more
or less the correct sound of the English word.
With a small assortment of English phrases
and a few signs like “O.Tv.” and “G.A.” (“go
ahead”), a Dutchman may exchange mes-
sages with a Turk.
“O’Pinion”: Many folk, having read that
thrippenc-e invested in the year 1 a.d. at
compound interest at 5 p.c. would to-day
have grown to a lump of gold bigger than
the sun. have had a wild idea that they
could thus provide immense wealth for
descendants a hundred or a thousand years
hence. But it can’t be done—under the
Union Jack, anyway. The Accumulations
Act. better known as the Thellusson Act.
an Imperial Statute of ISOO, provides that
no property shall be accumulated for more
than 21 years after a testator's death. Peter
Thellusson, a London merchant who died
in 1707, made a will that tied up his pro-
perty for about five generations, and so
much litigation ensued that Parliament took
a hand. The Statute has just been cited,
successfully, in the Maoriland Supreme
Court.


h
ABDULLA THE CRACK!
THE FOAL.
“That’s a wonderful foal, Bill!—the best I’ve ever
bred. What shall we call him?”
“Well, Sir, he’s by ‘The Superb’ out of ‘Quality.’ ”
“I’ve got it, then, he shall be named ‘Abdulla’ after
these exquisite cigarettes.”
superb CIGARETTES
TURKISH EGYPTIAN VIRGINIA


Under
Royal
.Warrant
ĥ
To H.M.
Kino
George V
Vintage 1917.
CHAMPAGNE
Charles Msieck
imi
Australasian Agents—
Swift & Company Limited
SYDNEY.
CHAMPACNt^
'iarleslloidsieCN
Reims
ft i i
»iiWßang27
PELLISSON
Cognac Brandy.
lO YEARS OLD.
Australasian As'erts—
SWIFT & COMPANY LIMITED, Sydney.
h':W
VD
V'f,;
THE WENTWORTH
CHURCH HILL.
Sydney’s Most Noteworthy Hotel.
JN the midst of the city, but sufficiently removed
from the racket to provide ideal accommoda-
te n for the traveller in search of the perfect
hospitality.
Steam-heated in Winter. Air-cooled in Summer.
Rooms with or without Baths, or with Sitting-
rooms en suit
THE DELIGHTFUL WENTWORTH CAFE
is Sydney’s most magnificent Ballroom, and the
Social Rendezvous of Smart People.
All Reservations may be made by Ranging 8W1361.
a®
SYDNEY.
The Finest Restaurant and Dance
Re dezvous in Australasia.
PATRONAGE CONTINUALLY INCREASING.
Capacity: Dining and Supper Dances up to 1000.
For Wedding Receptions, Banquets, Dining and
Supper Dances, inquiries to Manager.
Mon. Tues., Wed., Iri., Special Dining, 7.30,
12/6.' Suppers 10 p.m., 7/6. Value and satis-
faction without equal. No charge tor three
hours’ dancing on satin-smooth spring floors—
a new thrill of real delight.
Thurs and Sat. Late Gala Nights. Continental
Dinner from 7.30, 21/-. Suppers,’ 10 p.m., 12/6.
This evening in London costs £2/2/- upwards.
PEERLESS ORCHESTRA OF TEN.
Bewitching Cabaret, afternoons and evenings.
Delightful Afternoon Teas. 3.30 to 5.30, 51-
Pa rties of 6 upwards, 4/6; 12 upwards, 4/-
Two hours’ entertainment of sheer delight.
Order Wines before 6 p.m Rina .'1.3666.
HI
JVlr
AWOMANS
LETTER
SAY-
kayser
SLIPPER HEEL
STOCKINGS
The statue of Victoria turns a comfortable
presence upon the Queen’s Club, and some-
thing of the solid Dowager-like worth of her
who was called the Good permeates the
hardy perennials who are the club's mem-
bers. For being a member of the Queen’s
is the same as being a drinker of the elixir
of life ; Death and Age turn baffled from its
door. That is why younger sisters and
daughters and nieces had in desperation to
open a business of their own, which they
did last year. But the ladies of the old
institution know how to stage a dance, and
the night in the season on which they emerge
in their pretties is the subject of much letter-
writing from young and not-so-young ladies
of fashion to friends in London, or even as
far away as Crow’s Nest.
This year, after saving up all last year
in the hope of snaring the Duke and Duchess
early in this, the members woke up to a
sense of their social obligations. The Went-
worth was chosen for the event, and to the
nice old Church Hill hostelry on Thursday
night limousines and sedans plied swiftly
and suavely with their chiffoned and sequin-
ned and fur-enwrapped cargoes. The big
ballroom, cleared of the usual moss of din-
ner- and supper-dance tables, looked like a
bower. Trails of tender green twined with
flowers of the spring we are all on the look-
out for panelled the walls, and the room
was like a hanging garden with baskets of
fern and juicy shoots, with daffodils and
violets and stock. A trio of Governors and
their ladies had answered the call. Lady
Stonehaven was in black georgettes; Vic-
toria’s Vice-reine was fair and slim in un-
relieved black; Lady de Chair favored the
same over silver. Even Elaine mourned Fer-
dinand from knee to neck. Mrs. Philip
Street, the club’s president, in misty lilacs,
glad-handed the personages first and then
passed them on to a line of vice-presidents
and important people, among whom Mrs. J.
Macarthur Onslow looked impressive in old-
rose lace attire.
Mrs. Lowther, whose Commander husband
saw that neither shot nor shell (but powder
doesn’t matter) should harm the King’s
appointed, was wrapped in blameless white
satins. Mrs. Claude Reading seemed to bo
dressed as Brisbane on a June day—in a
frock that might have been poinsettia blaz-
ing in gold sunshine. Mrs. Pat Levy, in
horizon blues, Mrs. Douglas Levy, all pale
green, and Mrs. John McKelvey, in gold tissue,
were an attractive trio of young matrons.
Mrs. Geoffrey Hughes, too, in grass-green,
deserves an honorable mention. George Ful-
ler's lady, very blue and silver, was a notable
figure. Mrs. Stuart Osborne, in rich sapphire-
blue. brought daughter Margaret in the green
of the young spring leaf. The debutantes
were eight, and there was the usual back-
ground of diamonded matrons, which gave
an air of heavy respectability. The James
Fairfaxes brought their son and his charm-
ing Betty Wilson. Mrs. Sep Levy's frock
looked at first glance like the change from
innumerable banknotes —an eye-dazzling affair
of silver sequins. Mrs. Clarence Read brought
a large family party, including daughter
Margot, who made her bow to society in the
regulation white satin and tulle. Mrs. Farn-
comb, a recent bride of the Ross Nott clan,
wore an early-Victorian frock of jacaranda-
blue moire, whose Jane Austenish skirt
reached her ankles. Her quaint attire went
well with the rather demure little face and
figure and the soft knot of unshingled hair
at the nape of her neck. Philippa and
Helen Stephen, Susan Spencer, Doreen Hig-
gins and Elizabeth Macarthur Onslow, she
collared in ermine, w T ere in the dazzling
horde.
Saturday saw the end of the plutocrats’
struggle for the Dudley Cup, with the Har-
den team the winner; and now Kensington
has gone back to be the playground of the
proletariat for another 12 months. Again
three sets of Governors and their ladies hob-
nobbed in the vice-regal pew, supported by
the Siam royalties; and Elaine de Chair,
the Princess Mauraehatra and two small
Stonehavens also played around. Of others
a notable dresser was Mrs. Percy Willsallen
in coral-red kashas.
The crowning celebration of Polo week
was the great foregathering at Government
House on Friday night. The Governor and
Lady de Chair had put their best foot for-
ward to greet their town and country
friends. The result was a jolly party where
jazz superseded the irusic of the great com-
posers —it always does when the socially
best people get. together. Lady de Chair,
her black georgettes latticed in diamente,
was lassoed in pearls as big as marbles,
and her ears were warmed by the fires of
magnificent diamonds. G.-G. Stonehaven
and his lady, who seem really pally with the
State Governor of Victoria and Lady
Somers and are giving them bed and break-
fast at Admiralty House, arrived early.
Lady Stonehaven whirled the pointed
flounces of the black chiffon frock she had
sported at the Ivirribilli Yacht Club's dance,
and Lady Somers's black was patterned in
silver and cheered by diamonds and sap-
phire earrings. Elaine de Chair's wistaria
chiffons were misted with silver lace. White
moire and silver lace were .allied, in a strik-
ing gown worn by Mrs. Jim Litchfield, of
Cooma; and another eye-net was of sea-
green fringe and swirled about Mrs. J. 11.
White. Queenslanders Aileen and Una Bell
were there in white and mauve respectively.
Mrs. Ken Austin cuddled a Paisley shawl ;
Mrs. W. H. Mackay was crusted with
greeny-bronze sequins; Mrs. John Martin
was bound in cloth of gold. Pearl Apple-
ton, in billowy lilac organdie, looked like a
youngster out of a nursery rhyme. The
naval’ Robinses brought Joselyn to make her
grown-up bob before th e family sails back to
Plymouth Hoc ; Mrs. Harold White, of Mus-
wellbrook, had her ivory laces weighted with
coral and silver sequins; and Mrs. Leo Wat
son of Goulburn. in black, and Barbara Allen,
in gold, were among those who were, men-
tally inventoried for future copying, if pos-
sible.
Out at the Rose Bay Golf House on
Saturday night the polo players and their
front-line barraekers all turned up again.
There were dinner-parties first and then
feet got busy to the music of two bands.
Everybody who has been mentioned already
in this Letter was once more among the
pleasure-hunters as well as. many who
haven’t been. Moira Brady, for one, looking
like a picture in black lace, Nell Charley, in a
coat of vellum velvet, Mrs. F. B. S. Fal-
kiner, in lush-black fringings, and the three
nice Coyle girls, who threaten to outrival
their mother and father in popularity.
Tony Hordern, too, assembled the essen-
tial parts of a successful dance in the ball-
room of Retford Hall. Here the cerise-
and-black of his own polo team, the Wan-
‘ derers, supplied the dominant note in the
decorations. The path to the garden ball-
room was enclosed and lined with the colors
of all the competing teams.
Here is a lady who is preparing to ascend a
throne at the end of the month. At the Moore
Park Palais, iti view of their State Exes.,
and surrounded by far more maids of honor
tli a n Queen
Mary can
afford, she will
be crowned the
F i r e men’s
Queen. Mrs. J.
A. Roles was
the candidate
who carried
St. Vincent’s
colors during
the recent
Queen Compe-
tition for the
hospitals, run
in conjunction
with the Firc-
men’s Art
Union. She
topped the list,
he r subjects
voting for her
to the tune of
£12,49G125. 3d.
Roth sexes and
all religions worked hard for the smiling
subject of this picture. Members of the
Jewish community gave two outsize parties
in her interest at the Maccabean Hall; and
City Tatts. alone handed in nearly £2OOO.
The Art circle of the Millions Club is
growing strong, and with a loud voice it
demanded that the guest of honor at the
yearly jollo should be Jascha Heifetz. The
rest of the members w 7 ere charmed. Such
doings would hall-mark them of the elect,
and the charge of the Philistine could no
longer be levelled against them. As a matter
of fact, the nice old and not-so-old boys who
form the club often give a quiet boost to the
various arts. So, on Thursday night, Jascha,
forgetting that catgut existed, ate festive food
with the Millions at the Ambassadors.
Arthur Rickard, whose brother had died a
few days earlier through a motor accident,
was not present, so vice-president Mulligan
did the honors, and at his table sat the D.
R. Halls, Deail Talbot’s lady in black and
gold brocades, the F. E. Penfolds, Jascha’s
accompanist Isidor Acliron and concert-man-
ager Drake. Jascha’s speech was the speech
of a schoolboy who feels he is expected to be
funny while inside he is raging with nervous-
ness. Then he smiled with relief and friend-
liness, evidently quite overwhelmed by the
ardor with which the club told him he was
a jolly good fellow. The club colors —pale
blue and royal blue —decorated each table.
The frocking was superb—the men of the
club are all mighty hunters. A new spring
model was viewed with forbearance by every
second woman, while the wearer treated the
affair with the nonchalance of the dancing
daffodil.
The lady in this picture is Miss Williams,
principal of the Women’s College within the
University. With all her powers she is sup-
porting the
much - argued-
about appeal
to the public
for more
funds. T h e
Uni. finds it-
self in need
o f £250,000.
the amount of
the biggest be-
quest that has
enriched it—
the Cliallis
endowment. So
far the work
lias been sus-
tain e d by
gifts from
men who have
had a reverence
for education
and the wel-
fare of the
State the
Government subsidy of first £ot«tO and now
£lO,OOO would certainly not keep the wolf
far from the door. Very much more is needed
in these days of high costs ; and the Women's
College is standing firm behind the Uni.
Chancellor and Vice-Chancellor in their raid
on the public purse.
Jascha Heifetz is trying to establish a Con-
servatorium of Music in Palestine as his
share in re-establishing Jewry on tin* old
stand. The better-educated of those who are
following the Zionist movement don’t want
any 40 years in the wilderness ; so a univer-
sity is already going up, and no place would
be a real home for Hebrews without evening
shows for the display of boiled shirts and
diamonds. Meanwhile Heifetz had joined
with the Sydney Conservatorium orchestra
in a concert at the Sydney Town Hall; and
a cheque for £385, his share of the takings,
has gone along to our own Con. It is to be
spent on establishing a music library—that
was Heifetz’s own good idea.
Mauve of the wistaria gleamed softly in
the big lounge of the Royal Sydney Yacht
Club at Ivirribilli one night last week. With
pink it made a festival lattice overhead and
it trailed gracefully about the big mantel-
piece in the billiard-room. Squat bowls of
sweet pea and lupin made every corner
fragrant, and proud camellias gleamed every-
where. The electrics wore shades frilled from
top to stern; and all the daintiness was
the work of the club’s handy men. _ But
there really wasn’t much time to take in the
decorations, for everybody on the awninged
verandahs or in the reception-rooms was busy
greeting some neighbor or old club friend;
and then “God Save” announced that the
G.-G. Stonehavens had dropped in from
almost next door, and. partners stepped out
in the real business of the night.
No place in Sydney provides a prettier set-
ting for a party than the Kirribilli Club
House, with Its views across the Harbor and
its picturesque lantern-lit old gardens, and
its furnishings of polished wood topped by
gleaming trophies. The notable thing about
Lady Stonehaven’s dressing was the rope of
pearls twisted twice about her throat. Rear-
Commodore Paul Ross received his C.O. (the
G.-G. is the club’s commodore), supported by
Mrs. Ross in the palest of lilac georgette
sprayed with crystal and buttressed by dark-
eyed' Mrs. Don. Taylor in daffodil chiffons
and her husband, who keeps the G.-G.’s yacht
in condition. With Mrs. Don Taylor came
her sister from Calcutta, Mrs. Marquis,
wrapped in flame georgettes. The Rossetti-like
Hannah Jones managed to retain a Blessed
Damozel atmosphere in a setting of white
satin coat collared and cuffed in palest pink
marabout. Jessie Tait was in summer-sky
blue chiffons, the educational Miss Tildes-
leys were among the dancers, and here and
there appeared the club die-hards, Milsons,
Goddards and Saxtons.
The Moore Park Palais was crowded with
tennis devotees early last week in an effort
for the “Save the Ground” fund. Secre-
taries G. 11. McElhone and Roy Nutt were
responsible for loud sounding of the tocsin,
and from every crag and cranny, from every
court and green, lads and lassies with tennis
bats rampant leaped to the call. The result
was a great roll-up, and thereby at least
a sod or two of the White City is saved
from the white ant of Progress. A pageant
and fancy costumes helped to beguile the
rosy hours.
The Prince of Siam isn’t merely an Orien-
tal butterfly. A man alongside him sug-
gested the other day that he probably found
this rush of Sydney rather bewildering. “All.
but I’m just a busy business man myself,”
said the potentate. "At home I begin w or
at nine every morning; I'm at my I f )l r ce
few minutes earlier. With one small urean
I keep going—pretty hard, I think—till two
o’clock. Mostly public business, of course.
After that I have time for some relaxation
and social duties.” He has been inciiiirin.-,
into Australian banking, among other tniiig>,
and was particularly intefested in the Com-
monwealth Savings Rank. It wasn t a meie
glance through he wanted. He knew, as it
turned out, a surprising lot about savings-
banks ; but he wanted to know more and
did before he smiled his good-byes.
Only once did a stalwart dancer flash out
a sudden “Where’s your license/ 1 hen a
touch of his partner’s fingers reminded liim
that he wasn’t on point-duty at the corner
of King and George. There was joy in a
policeman’s lot all right when the frame
bobbies side-stepped and jay-walked and did
all sorts of unheard-of things in answer to
the signal of the band at the Town Hall.
Ferns and Hags and trailing vines mellowed
the somewhat rugged outlines of the civic
stronghold. Commissioner of Police Mitchell
and his lady smiled on the gathering; so did
the Mayoral Mostyns and Clarence Moss,
secretary for the Kiddies’ Hospital, winch
the dance benefited.
The Vagabonds were responsible for three
nights’ fun at St. James’s Hall last week.
Comedy is the Vagabonds’ strong card, and
this time the play chosen, “Billeted,’ by H.
M. Harwood and Tennyson Jesse, gave Ruby
Coxhead a chance to shine in her favorite
part of provocative grass-widow. Clive Cop-
pard, as the errant soldier husband who gets
billeted on the wife lie had vowed never to
speak to again, played up very well. And
Hilda Warr earned compliments for her
clear diction.
The Vagabonds, having set up one young
ward who was an invalid kiddie when they
gave him a hand a few years ago and who
is now an upright youngster earning his
own living, have adopted another. This
little chap is in worse case, for lie has been
maimed from birth. On Saturday night the
performance was for his benefit. Still, the
Taxation Department dropped in and
claimed its entertainment tax —the first time
in the club’s lifetime of 12 years that tax-
ation lias been demanded.
Even those disciples of glowing color,
Roy de Mestre and Agnes Goodsir, must
have been a bit dazzled by the daffodil fires
that blazed around them on Sunday after-
noon. The setting was the music-room of
Mrs. Swinson’s home at Turramurra, and
the occasion a party to the glory of the
already-arrived Agnes and the speeding-to-
fame Roy. The artists were served to an
accompaniment of really good music, Betty
Armstrong, Lionel Lawson and the hostess's
own brilliant fingers being the weavers
thereof. Soldier-poet and art-lover General
Anderson was among those who turned a
rapt ear and eye on the gathering. Justice
Gordon, the Roystone Daveys and Elaine de
Chair were among those who motored from
town, and the best people from the North
Shore line grew bulbous and confidentially
herbaceous between draughts of the music
and compliments to the lions.
On an uplifting wave of choral music
Muriel Spanswick, a pretty dark-liaircd
Wollstonecraft girl, was launched into mat-
rimony last week at St. Philip’s. Hence-
forth her pilot will be Philip Westcott. of
the same North Shore suburb. Foamy white
and silver moored by orange buds clothed
the bride, and her one maid, Nell Johnson,
glowed in chiffons. Bride’s mother dispensed
the wedding meats in black lace and red
roses.
A niece of the Arthur Eedys. Vivien Val-
lentine, is among the season’s ring-annexers.
Her diamond-provider is Lawrence Nutter, of
Killara.
Without sirens or Jolly Rogers or any-
:hing spectacular, Captain Showman, of the
Niagara, was married in old St. John’s at
Darlinghurst one evening last week. The
lass who loved this sailor was Elsie
Buchanan, formerly of Maoriland. Diamente-
studded peach-pink georgettes formed the
wedding garment, a pink tulle turban was
worn instead of a veil, and a notable adjunct
was a coat of marmot. Hilda Sharpe, the
only ’maid, was in a souffle of pale-blue
chiffons, and carried a posy of chiffon roses
outlined in silver. Secretary of the Millions
Club Bailey and his wife were among the
few intimate friends at the dinner-party
at the Ambassadors, and present in the
bride’s interest were old family friends Mr.
and Mrs. Watson, of Christchurch.
There is nothing unlucky about the color for
Billie Lockwood, the clever girl who stepped
into the lead in “The Green Hat” when poor
Judy Anderson fell ill. A £25-a-week contract
till the end of the year is her swag. Forth-
with she -went out and paid the deposit on
a holiday cottage for the family. Judith
Anderson, by the way, has been ordered an
operation for sinus trouble. The minute
she is well, enough she is booked straight back
to Broadway for a new Belasco play.


HAFCD'Y' blos ltd.
J EWELLER.S
PEARL NECKLETS
?
£' :
'
m
m
c
m&EBm ,
► m
. H
H
..
:
and loose Pearls
Always fashionable and in per-
fect taste for every occasion, a
Pearl Necklet is a woman’s most
prized possession, no other Jewels
giving such lasting pleasure.
A small Pearl Necklet is often
purchased, and, on Birthdays and
other Anniversaries, extra Pearl.s
added until a large and valuable
string is obtained.
Hardy’s stock of Pearl Necklets
and loose Pearls are bought only
on the most favorable terms and
offer the best value and largest
selection in Australasia.
Pearl Necklets range from £lO/10/- to £5OOO.
Five per cent, discount for Cash.
Hardy’s Catalogue will be sent Post Free, to any address , on request.
HARDY
298 300 r» rj /~\-pI FCt> C T TPI ns--us
COLLINS ST., iVv 1 nCiVO LI U QUEEN Sl'.
MELBOURNE. Op £&xlusivC tJeUtelLoy BRISBANE.
13 HUNTER STREET. SYDNEY.
And at LONDON.
10,000 Recipes that will
Save You Money
ms,
*»23P*.
PRO^SSES
on the hundreds of things you
use daily in your home, your
factory, office, store or farm.
Price 20/-
Postage 1/4 extra.
HENLEY’S TWENTIETH CENTURY BOOK
RECIPES, FORMULAS AND PROCESSES
New Revised and Enlarged Edition.
IN every can of baking powder or paint you buy—in tbe hundreds of tilings you use in
your home or business—is a goodly profit you can now save and make your own
through the priceless knowledge contained in' HENLEY’S TWENTIETH CENTURY
BOOK OP RECIPES, FORMULAS AND PROCESSES.
It places at your finger-tips over ten thousand separate recipes, preparations, formulas
and processes, containing the latest scientific discoveries.
in simple, non-technical terms it explains how you can make every conceivable thing
in general use, from inks and toothpastes to asphalt cement and battery solutions, it
contains the discoveries of civilisation itself!
Thousands of Unpublished Secret Processes.
Here and there in costly volumes and scientific works are some of tbe rare recipes
included in HENLEY’S amazing book, but no other volume published to-day oilers you
such complete authoritative information on so wide a range of subjects as HENLEY’S
TWENTIETH CENTURY BOOK OF RECIPES, FORMULAS and PROCESSES.
Thousands of secret processes and formulas are here published for the first time —
many of them gleaned from the private papers of leading French and European scientists
and never before translated into English.
Many a fortune has been built on a good formula.. Think what it would mean
to have ten* thousand to choose from! - .
All Yours for a Small Sum.
The housewife will find it valuable, in making beautifying creams, baking powders
or insecticides. With it the factory can save money on belt dressings, amalgams or boiler
compounds. The farmer will find its latest scientific information on fertilisers, cheese
making, tanning and Portland cement, it is indispensable.
Hardly a day passes but what you require authentic, up-to-the-minute information
on these very recipes, formulas and processes. Why not send for a copy of this remark-
able one volume encyclopedia to-day'?
N.S.W. BOOKSTALL CO., LTD.,
CASTLEREAGH AND MARKET STREETS, SYDNEY.
Will your boys
thank their mother
in after years for their beautiful teeth? Will
the charm of their smiles, and their freedom
from tooth decay, be constant reminders of
your loving care and attention?
Teach them now to safeguard their teeth.
Teach them the necessity of brushing their
teeth after every meal. Tell them why you
chose Colgate’s Ribbon Dental Cream . . . tell
them of its safety, its efficiency in washing
and polishing the teeth, its freedom from grit
and harmful drugs.
L*3
a
F
•=S»
t MeSil
removes causes of tooth decay
mr
'■(lf/'
- ill)'/
- 1 , (4i
“"cVpv liaiv is tuc Ri' st s, ' iU
»4-&sr«~
:IS younss ‘‘>o* bv kcepvim
sibie. >'-' n ,r and n ctl )?=
young 100 the full benefi-
yonng 0 f life be en-
an<U> leasme rf
joy Tbe ** SgSgrA
•wpv in tbe b‘in . vo uth
nitc °' h( P ‘ immediately
—should be luH i bj
attacked a"? n iel This
every }™®J t ' bu t there vs a
seem (bmeei . rcm edy-
,i,.finite and sum • Dr.
Tim -medy Walnut
Allen' s { simple and
Stain. I> s “’ u will t«-
Uarnvless to use- sign Sot
rAnTISSi-tbe Uaiv *>
any' ft aU chemists
Obtain sib'e a bottle-
nnd stores at j*/ Agents,
or direct | l g a bvsbury,
Duerdin e- * (4 /p, to covci
Alelbouvn _ Remember
, for the full /
name.
*%%(
GvQVi
v
V
SFQUmCa Mexican
WALNUT STAIN
If any illustration in “The Bulletin” takes your
fancy, write to the Manager, who will quote you price
tor the original.


A. SAUNDERS’
CLOCKS
THE LARGEST DISPLAY
IN THE COMMONWEALTH.
Over 5000 Clocks for
You to Choose From.
ALL GUARANTEED.
sMSsttl
m§
■ms
aa&sj
s»EKaEir:
A. Saunders’ Hall Time Clocks, bevelled
glass doors, full Westminster Chimes,
Solid Oak Cases, £lO/10/-
£ Westminster Chimes, £B/10/-
A. Saunders’ Mantel Chime Clocks, Inlaid
Mahogany Case, Solid Brass Movement,
} Westminster Chimes, £lO/10 /-
Others, £l2/10/-. £l5,
SENT FREIGHT FREE.
A. SAUNDERS,
Watchmaker—Jeweller—Optician,
805-813 GEORGE STREET (opposite railway Station), SYDNEY.
Buy only this
X
RED Ticket
And Be Eligible for Prizes
Totalling £2222
In the Limbless Soldiers’ Art Union
Trusted by the people and with a reputation gained by
the conduct of our last three Art Unions, which paid
full prize money and were drawn to time, the Limbless
Soldiers will again keep faith.
The proceeds are in aid of the Provident Fund of the
Limbless Soldiers’ Association, and are invested at
interest by Trustees to provide for the old age of limbless
returned men.
Ist PRIZE, HUDSON COACH £465
2nd PRIZE, „ „ £465
3rd PRIZE, „ „ £465
And 870 Valuable Prizes from £275 to £5,
including Player Piano and Linen Chest.
TICKETS: 1/- BY POST 1/IJ.
6 TICKETS 6/- POST FREE.
0. BEYERS, Hon. Sec.,
19 Bligh Street, Sydney.
Great Austral No. 4 Art Union
By Permission, Attorney-General, N.S.W.
mms
*
d
m
m
m
i
fen
1312
FINEST TORTOISESHELL WITH SILVER MOUNT.
Mirror, length lOlin. £5 10 0 Silver-mounted Comb £2 0
Hair Brush, length 9in. Powder Jar, diameter 4in... 110
each £3 10 0 Trinket Box, diameter 3Jin. 2 10
Hat Brush, length Glin. 2 2 0 Boudoir Clock, with 30-hour
Cloth Brush, length 61 in. 2 2 0 Lever Movement 7 0
0 %
0 1
A. Discount of 5 per cent, will be allowed on all Cash Purchases.
W-M -DR LHWO'ND a 00
DIAMONDS PEARL MERCHANTS
344-346 COLLINS ST. MELBOURNE
ilastertouch
MUSIC ROLLS
LATEST LIST OF NEW RELEASES
in
Popular Hits and Standard Numbers.
Fox Trots.
D. 1747 —Ain’t She Sweet?
D. 1758 —I’ve Got the Girl.
D.l7s9—Don’t Sing Aloha When I Go.
D. 1760 —Moonbeam, Kiss Her For Me.
D. 176- —If You See Sally.
D.l763—My Blue Bird.
D. 1764—Here I Am.
D.1765—1t All Depends On You.
One Steps.
D.l7s3—Bridget O’Flynn f Where’ve Ya
Been?)".
D.I7C6 —Where Do You Work-a, John?
(Push-a, Push-a, Push).
Waltzes.
D.l7s2—The Good Bad Girl.
D.l7s4—Because I Love You.
D. 1767—50 Blue.
D.l77o—Honolulu Moon.
Marches.
D. 175 Conqueror.
D. 1761 —Top of the World.
Ballads.
D. 174 Here is My Heart. Key
of E Flat.
D. 1745 —Irish Songs.
D. 1750 —Serenade (from “The Student
Prince”).
D.l7sl—Drinking Song (from “The
Student Prince”).
D.l769—Deep in My Heart, Dear (from
“The Student Prince”).
Operatic Numbers.
D. 1742 —F.lsa’s Dream (from “Lohen-
grin”).
D. 1746 —Celeste Aida.
0D.1748 —The Student Prince (Selection).
D. 1749 —Bridal Chorus (from “Lohen-
grin”).
0D.1756 —Ruddigore (Selection).
0D.1768 —Gilbert and Sullivan Medley.
OBTAINABLE EVERYWHERE.
JVVASTERT OUCH
Hand Pla/ed -_=■
A\usic Rolls
_ " ' a.re the ,
L ATEST APiID BEIST
G. H. Horton & Co., Ltd.
Wholesale Distributors Only, 66 CITY ROAD, SYDNEY.


NATIONAL HOTEL,
BRISBANE.
Charges are for Room Only. European Plan.
Dining Service a la Carte
STRICTLY FIRST CLASS.
TARIFF:
Write for Descriptive Folder.
jBBBSBSSSSSSii
Address Manager—
ROWES, LTD.,
Cafe and Hotel Proprietors,
BRISBANE.
n*»
You positively COULDN’T get a more centrally-situated hotel —a stone’s throw
from everywhere—railway stations, steamship wharves, offices, theatres, etc. And
"Scott’s” has always kept abreast of the times, supplying everything you would
expect of the best hotel of its kind in the State. All
bediooms equipped with hot and cold water and direct
exchange and inter-communicating telephones.
Inclusive Tariff by Day, or Bed and
Breakfast Rate.
WRITE FOR TARIFF CARD.
Telegrams • “Scott’s,” Melbourne. ’Phone, Cent. 9012..
MELBOURNE S.-25.
Iff!
lli
mitm
Httn
THE HOTEL RANELAGH,
ROBERTSON, N.S.W.
Australia’s Tourist Hotel De Luxe.
Accommodation tor 130 guests.
Outdoor sports: Golf, Tennis, Riding, Croquet.
Indoor amusements: Dancing, Billiards, Bridge, etc.
WINTER TARIFF: Mon. to Fri., 17/6 per day;
Sat, Sun. and Holidays, 21/- per day.
Inclusive Weekly, £6.
Booking Office: 84 Pitt Street, Sydney. ’Phone: 86491.
Melbourne
Chatter
Buckleu's
Elizabethan
Tea Rooms
P[?]
B[?]
[?]
The sun, after being a casual worker or a
striker for weeks, put in a whole day on the
job on Saturday, and enticed hordes of folk
out to Moonee Valley races. But though
Sol did his. best for the other Sols, the wind
was keen and cutting, and torn betting tic-
kets whirled around like snowflakes, enhanc-
ing the blizzard effect. The Ben Chaffeys,
E. C. Cooper couple, Mrs. A. Crozier,
Kogers-Thoinsons and daughter Kathleen,
Norman Carsons and Dr. Jack Merrilees and
his wife were amongst the crowd on the
lawn. Furs were almost universally worn,
the handsomest, perhaps, being the sable
full-length cape of Mrs. Henry Rosenthal,
which covered a lettuce-green gown topped
by the same hued felt millinery. Those
who braved the blast in tailor-mades took
the precaution to add fur chokers. Mrs. J.
S. Fehon was one of these, in a turn-out of
cocoa-hued gabardine with felt hat to match.
Quite unique was a coat and skirt of squir-
rel. the fur being in stripes. It was belted,
cuffed and collared in tan suede. Dr. Guthrie
Plante’s wife was smartly clad in black,
her satin coat being edged with white fox
fur, a chic felt hat completing the picture.
Mrs. Claude Matthews was another success-
ful wearer of black.
A dance planned at a tea-gathering at
Priminister Bruce’s South Yarra home some
weeks ago materialised on Friday night at
the Embassy, Melbourne Hospital benefiting.
A committee with Mrs. Russell Clarke as
president ran the show, she wearing blend-
ings of pale amber with gold embroidery.
Mrs. Fred Krcrouse,' in chenille-embroidered
georgette of blue-green tone, and Betty Shack-
ell, who danced in clouds of cream ninou,
looked after ticket sales. Dorothy Mollison,
in black lace over silver, was hon. secretary.
Mrs. Dudley Trenchard, in brocaded velvet
of rust hue, and Mrs. Walter Bayles, in rose-
colored velvet, turned salesladies, and with
some pretty young assistants vended bal-
loons and novelties.. Thurza Rogers gave an
exhibition dance in floatings of primrose and
orange georgette, and Marie Tait, a glimmer
of shaded red sequins in plaid design, danced,
as ‘'The Geisha” has it, “in quite another
way.” Herbert Bentley as auctioneer added
£35 to the pot. Mrs. Robert Knox, in black
lace; Mrs. Alec Russell, who displayed crim-
son roses on a radiance of silver sequins;
William Glasgow’s lady, in a robe of rose
tone with sparkling finish, and Col. David-
son’s wife, all aglitter, were there. Mrs.
Rupert Downes was a tall good-looker whose
silver lame gown was just right. The Charles
Armytages (Kurtuk). Phillip Russells
(Carngham), Sam McKays, John Turnbulls,
Mint-Master Robins’s wife freshly coined in
oxidised silver, and Mrs. Richard Fitcher,
frocked in white georgette with a few hand-
fuls of silver sequins and coral beads, also
took the floor. Among crowds of charm-
ingly-dressed pretty girls Betty Trenchard
set a new note in a frock that was ecru lace
frills from corsage to knee. Phyllis Holmes
Hunt came in lace covering of gladioli-red.
The cars of members of the Royal Auto-
mobile Club were parked in close formation
outside the Wattle Path Palais on Thursday
night for their annual jazz. All was on
top gear, about 800 joining the syncopated
run. President Alured Kelly and his wife,
whose gown was a glitter of gold sequins
and beads, gave supper to many fellow-
motorists amid decorations of wee autos, of
moss, jonquils and violets stationed around
a plate-glass lake with stray model swans.
Vice-president E. W. Cox was accompanied
by his life-partner in robe of pale green
with a glow of crystal; Mrs. H. J. Robertson,
who is leading light of the women’s motor
club, also favored green; and so did Mrs.
Stan Love. The Elmer Pauly couple were
there, and Mrs. Jim Angus, who had Kerry
Kelly along with her, showed some gold tissue
beneath draperies of nattier blue; Kerry,
who is having a holiday off stage, was looking
bonnie in a white frock well weighted with
crystal fringe and sparkling spots. F. Hooper
and Charles Hodges secretaried an unusu-
ally successful show.
The Junior League of the Women’s Hos-
pital, which w T as instituted to provide apparel
for welcome little strangers, had a bridge
party at Cliveden Mansions the other night.
Mrs. Percy Russell, the president, who lives
there, was chief engineei*, and Nan Robin-
son was secretary, looking nice in a frock of
rose-pink hue, with harmonising bridge coat.
Mrs. W. Riddell, who scintillated in a robe
that had embroidery of green and black
sequins, checked tickets; and some of the
younger set, headed by Peggy Bruce, in a
frock that suggested frost-covered grass, sold
sweets and cigarettes. Mayoress Morell, Dr.
Georgina Sweet and Mrs. Merson Cooper
were there.
St. Vincent’s Nurses’ Association let itself
go in a jazz at No. 9 on Saturday night.
Mrs. John Gray, whose gown sparkled with
beads, was president of the committee. Mrs.
W. R. Burston, the lion, sec., hod a starry
glitter on clouds of black georgette, and Miss
A. Cavanngli dressed demurely, as became the
purse-holder, in black with a slight sparkle of
crystal. A nurses’ room at the hospital
be furnished out of the profits.
The Old Paradians—that means folk who
went to school at the Christian Brothers’
College in Victoria-parade, East Melbourne- -
had their annual ball at St. Kilda Town
Ilall the other night. Eight hundred dancers
took the floor and 26 debs, bent low to
president Percy Matthews and his wife. Mrs.
Matthews’s apricot-hued gown was overlaid
with tiny gold sequins and silver beads.
Mrs. J. A. Gorman, whose black frock
glistened with silver embroidery, and Mrs.
Peter Lucini, in black with gold tracery,
shepherded the buds, and a women’s com-
mittee 50 strong helped the old boys with
the party. ! #
Dame Nellie’s sponsorship ensured fiddler
Zimbalist a splendid house on Saturday night.
The diva’s rose and silver coat and glittering
bandeau made a nice splash of color in
the front row. She had promised to sing at
one of this week’s recitals, and to play accom-
paniments for Zimbalist. He, not to be out-
done, had consented to take the piano-stool
for Melba’s items —it was a toss-up whether
lie became a Kreisler or a Paderewski. At
half-time on Saturday night the front-rowers
arose en masse to go behind to congratulate
the star, Melba heading the procession. Amy
and Eileen Castles renewed their acquaint-
ance with the Russian. When they were
studying in London, their flat was a meeting-
place of promising musicians.
The Uni. Symphony Orchestra’s concert
came so smartly on the heels of a Zimbalist
recital that Comparisons were inescapable,
odious though they might be. However,
though there weren’t any Zimbalists or
Strads to listen to, there was a decent pre-
sentation of Tschaikowsky’s most famous
Cantabile movement, and the Jarnefelt
“Praeludium,” full of color and attractively
rhythmic, was re-demanded. Cesar Franck’s
“Le Chasseur Maudit” found the brasses
blatant and the horns wobbly. Isobel .Carter
was soloist in, the Rachmaninoff Pianoforte
Concerto in C minor, and showed skill and
feeling. Bernard Heinze got the best results
out of his instrumentalists in the “Romeo
et Juliette” overture-fantasy of Tschaikow-
sky.
When the Victorian Opera Company puts
on Leslie Stuart’s “Florodora” at the The-
atre Royal next week.the J,ady Hollyrood
will be this
nice- looking
mortal. She’s
the wife of Dr.
Fleming Dun-
stftn, of El-
sternwick, and
has a voice
that has been
heard and liked
at many a
concert. Origi-
nally a student
at the Adelaide
Con., she got
further train-
ing, after she
came to Mel-
bourne wi t h
her husband,
under Mary
Campbell a t
the Alberc-
street Con.
When Henry
Bussell was selecting singers for the Melba
Grand Opera Company he offered her a
place, but a home, a husband and a family
weighed more heavily in the scales. But
she hasn’t neglected her gift and for two
years past Walter Kirby has had her in
hand.
The Music Club gave a concert at the
Victorian Artists' Society’s Galleries on
Friday night. Pianist Aileen Estcourt played
pieces by Glazounov, Cesar Franck and De-
bussy impressively, and Jessie McMicliael,
who wore draperies of grape-hyacintli shade,
made good use of her mezzo-soprano notes
in the Schumann cycle, "'Woman, Love and
Life,” and some Brahms numbers. Harold
Smith showed that accompanying isn’t quite
a lost art. There were posies for the ladies.
A. A, Milne’s “Belinda” had another
Melbourne showing last week, when Mrs.
Maurice Dudley, who was in the name role,
put the comedy on at the Austral Salon.
Violet Dyson and Olive Jenkins took parts,
and there was a well-filled house. Myrtle
Liddy mobilised some instrumentalists to fill
the interludes with music.
The golf tournament at Bendigo brought
together folk from near and far. Queensland
sent Captain and Mrs. Lyon-Inston; Ida
O'Dwyer, of Caulfield, was a guest at the
Edwards home; Dr. Eadie welcomed the
Evan Pearse couple from Toorak, and Christa
Laidlaw came from Hamilton. As a wind-up
to the week 15 bachelors commandeered the.
local town hall and 300 guests took the
floor.
This happy smile, caught by a Dickinsoii-
Montcath camera, is the characteristic ex-
pression of Margaret Nicholson, one of the
younger set whose talent as a dancer is well
known. The “Patchwork Revue,” which is
being engi-
neered in aid
of the Civil
Ambulance
funds, will
bring her
again into the
limelight. A
company o f
nice boys and
girls headed
by Biddy Tal-
lis will pre-
sent the show
at His Ma-
jesty’s on the
nights of the
18th and 19th.
Ilay Whiting
and Les Ra-
plia e 1 are
stage - mana-
ging the revue,
and the dan-
cers will be
coached by Jennie Brenan and Margery
Bray.
Mrs. Jim Angus is indefatigable—a trite
word, but the only one that fits the case.
Now that the hostel for blind women
workers is firmly established, she has turned
her energies to securing a similar residence
for blind men. The first blow in the campaign
will be struck in November, when there will
be a fair in the grounds of the Blind Institu-
tion. Christmas gifts will be sold. At a
preliminary meeting, 11 mayoresses promised
assistance.
The Madden clan has been plunged into
gloom by cables announcing the death of two
young relatives. One was Gordon Daunte,
a cousin, whose mother, Winifred Travers,
was a social favorite here during the Madden
regime. Gordon Daunte went into the motor
business, married a Russian dancer and
settled in Cannes, where he passed out so
suddenly that his mother, now living in
Paris, was unable to outpace the scythe-
bearer. The other relative, lan Yallange, was
an only son, and was killed in an accident.
The family are trying to persuade the be-
reaved ones to take a health trip to Australia
with the returning Mrs. Pat Osborne.
Lord Novar’s wife, who represented Aus-
tralia at the Red Cross conference in Paris
lately, was the only woman delegate. The
council here has decided to ask Robert
Nettlefold, a member of the Central Council,
who is on a jaunt overseas, to look in at
the Junior Red Cross week which is to be
held in Brussels. Rapid progress is being
made in J.R.C. circles in all States save
the Little Isle, where the Minister of Educa-
tion does not favor its introduction into
the schools.
The Maurice Levinsons’ daughter Jean
announces her engagement from Fogtown.
Lionel Abrahams is the man of her choice.
Mrs. Herbert Claxton has received news of
the passing of her sister, who married the
Hon. Anthony Pelham, a brother of the late
Earl of Chichester, and afterwards settled in
Gloucester. The home of the sisters’ father,
Captain Lindeman. in Sydney, was widely
known for its hospitality.
Lady Airedale, who was one of the Majola
passengers, has made the Australian trip to
visit her daughter, Mrs. 11. O. Nevitt, who
is settled in the Camperdown district with
her husband.
Thurza Rogers had a sudden call to musi-
cal comedy on Saturday morning, and the
afternoon found her with her dancing part-
ner Robert Lascelles and a few hurriedly-
packed suit-cases aboard the Adelaide ex-
press, to play the lead in “Tip Toes.” When
the Firm first put on this piece the Maori-
land lass of the Russian ballet was asked to
be the dancing heroine, but she was diffident.
Now she’s taken the plunge, and the grit of
the herring-gutted islands will see her
through.
Dr. and Mrs. Barry Thomson were looking
forward to a visit from their son Jack, who
has taken to the boards in Blighty, but, a
cable received last week announced that he
had accepted a leading part in a New York
production.
The latest in women’s fashions is a Bridge
suit —a sleeveless jumper of ninon or georg-
ette, a pleated skirt of gold or silver lame
and a short, tailored coat of the same
material. The Collins-street firm that, intro-
duced it here is being rushed with orders.
Mrs. Britoraarte James was hostess at a
farewell to a fellow “Waac,” Edith Thomp-
son, who managed the English girls’ hockey
team. Ex-service women here sent an arm-
ful of wattle and violet, with a boomerang
pendant, to make the visitor feel that there
were kindred souls in this quarter.
Constance Laver, who runs a registry
office in Queen’s-walk, feels bucked up. The
English mail brought a creamy sheet of note-
paper inscribed “Buckingham Palace,” to
say that Queen Mary was pleased to accept
a copy of her booklet, “Extracts from My
Diary.” Edward P. and the Yorks have had
copies, too, and have acknowledged receipt
on almost as good stationery. Miss Laver’s
hobby since the war has been to watch
over Diggers who crook the elbow too often.
The Repertory Society put on three short
plays at Queen’s Hall the other evening—
Isabel Handley’s “Mistress Betty Treads a
Measure,” which had a premiere recently at
the Lyceum Club, and two bits of play-
wrighting by Maurice Baring—“ Alexander’s
Horse” (historical —-Henry VIII. and Kath
Parr) and “The Drawback,” which hinges
on the reluctance of a sweet young thing to
marry a hangman’s son. Isabel Handley and
Edith Appleton did well in the play about
the lady who would jazz, and Colonel White’s
wife dressed the part of bluff King Hal’s lady
in oyster-grey satin and the tall head-dress
of the period. Hilary Blake and Alton
Lilley divided honors in the birthstain piece.
The death of a member of a well-known
squatting family whose stations spread over
two States recalls an ancient romance. The
seven sons—the just dead one, who was <S4,
was the youngest—showed a majority in-
clination towards bachelorhood, and being
very desirable life-partners their aloofness
was resented. Resentment reached boiling-
point when one of them became engaged
to his cook-housekeeper. She was really
a rather cultured woman; but cook-house-
keeping offered her the best livelihood when
she decided to leave a wastrel husband. Upon
the engagement being made the bridegroom-
elect provided the bride-to-be with a modest
home in town, from which he himself kept
away because of the blackmailing threats of
the husband. The husband threatened such
trouble over the divorce —such matters were
of importance in those days—that, the
squatter lover not wanting to expose his
bride to public scandal, there was 10 years
of waiting before the wedding took place.
Dion Titheradge, who has got more limelight
through his divorce, married in 1009 when
lie was only 18 and a bit. His wife was
a pretty Australian nurse. They have a son
of 14, and some other children.
Agnes Murphy’s line from London :
The E. J. Carrolls are getting quite chummy
with the Royal family, and at the third Court, on
June 21, as on the occasion of the royal garden
party last year, Mrs. Carroll received many com-
pliments on her appearance, and her gown of shim-
mering gold called for much admiration in the
Press. Mrs. Carroll was fortunate in having for spon-
sor Mrs. Amery, wife of the Secretary of State for
the Dominions. Another old Australian friend, Sir
Edward Wallington, was the groom-in-waiting on
this interesting occasion.
The Duchess of Buckingham and Chandos, who
made a real tour of Australia when, the Jerseys were
at. Government House, Sydney, is having an exhibi
tion of her paintings at her home in Cadogan Square,
where the conservatory has been turned into an
excellent studio. Much of her sketching is now done
from a ear or carriage moored to some picturesque
spot, for her Grace is not so young as she used to
be when she clambered through the most difficult
passages of the Jenolan Caves. A prominent place
in the collection is given to a Maori pah.
George Lambert’s son Maurice has a show at the
Claridge Gallery, where his sculpture has pleased
the critics. Bearded, bronzed and robust, young
Lambert looks more than his 25 years, and has lots
of time to bring a promising career to a rich harvest.
Sydney girl Lute Drummond has been very
busy lately, her ordinary labors being increased
through her appointment as one jof the Sydney
delegates to the International Lyceum Club Congress.
She has also been displaying a lively interest in
eurhythmy as inaugurated by Dr. Rudolf Steiner —
the new' art which has been described as visible
song.
Mrs. Eric Stevens, of Wellington, is having a
gay time in London as the guest of her parents,
the M.L. High Commissioner and his lady. They have
been interesting themselves in Stella Murray, who
has just given a recital at the ,'Eolian Hall. A
feature of the programme was that she sang all
her songs in English, and was generally complimented
on her beauty of tone.
One of the curious incidents in connection w'ith the
return of the Yorks was the absence of Princess
Mary. On the day of the return the Court Circular
announced: “Princess Mary and Viscount Lascelles
left Chesterfield House to-day for Egerton House,
Newmarket, where they will spend a few' days before
going on to Goldsborough Hall.” That Princess Mary
should go out of London for a holiday jaunt to one of
her country houses, where she was not entertaining,
without waiting to welcome her brother on his return
from a- long and trying official voyage, has set all
the town asking “What is the matter?” It may be
that even the most philosophical of mothers could
not take calmly the idiotic gush over the York baby
while her own equally attractive children were to
a great extent ignored.


'4 A
m
wuwm'M
OJ.N)
»:
? s ( su vM
<V>
/
ii Itii
1.,/XN3ld ON)3 n
N 0 aSHXVT w N 5
. _ _ cirt ,
x° a S on "a VHc .%L
I gna ONV 30v. i-'..
OS s,Wi 3 So Q^iS
Williams* Holder
Top S h a v i n <7
Slid.' is held /> 7
a threaded, metal
ring. _\'o chance at
its tvorkina loose
■ : n the Holder.
NEW REDUCED PRICES;
Holder Top Shaving Si h k
2/'-
Keloads 1 • r.
Williams .Shaving Cream.
Its lather is famous
and the holder holds
Williams’ Shaving Stick works up quickly into a rich
lather—saturated with moisture—easy on the razor,
easier on the skin. But it has another great advantage.
That is the Holder Top. Each Williams stick and re-load
io made with a carefully threaded metal ring at its base
which fits easily and smoothly into the Holder Top.
Don’t expect to get Williams results from other shaving
soaps. Williams soothes the skin, leaving it glove-smooth
and thoroughly conditioned. Buy a stick to-day and
brighten to morrow's shave. Men who prefer Shaving
Cream, be sure to ask for Williams.
Williams
Holder Top Shaving Stick
Distributors: FRAZER & BEST LIMITED,
Brisbane, Sydney, Melbourne, Adelaide, Perth.
(aMacliaEo3cifiello^jel/ ,
Mmmmmmmrn M p— n wk v
ism
p
r
Chateau,
fionJ^ac
■^QurhfiCi
m
r-
ni
suj
mm
ft****»
8t ill
i*
.... 7^*^*
A LONG the Canadian Pacific route from Van-
f \ couver to Quebec a chain of 15 wonderful
C.P.R. hotels offer a distinctive service to people
of taste who desire exceptional comfort in travel.
To stay at these hotels, with their every modern con-
venience, assures the traveller of the renowned Canadian
Pacific service from beginning to end of his journey to
England.
Learn more of these magnificent hostels by writing for free illustrated
literature and particulars to any office, Union S.S. Co., of New
Zealand, any Tourist Booking Agency, or J. Sclater, Traffic Manager
for Australia and New Zealand. CANADIAN PACIFIC RAILWAY
COMPANY, Union House, 247 George Street, Sydney.
elf ivife you fo
r&rt awfailo
iMJdrtfhp glories
of Canada
ONADL4N
/£
PACIFIC.
IT SPANS THE WORJLD.
ħ
CHRISTOPHER JOHNSON & CO.,
FLAG BRAND CUTLERY.
Sheffield,
England.
Registered Trade-mark.
IiRITISH
SCISSORS of
HIGH QUALITY.
SOLID STEEL. A LIFETIME’S WEAR.
Representatives :
NORMAX BAKER & LONGHURST, LTD..
Sydney, Melbourne, and Wellington, N.Z.
h
No. 1369.
The confidence of a shaver
in the choice of a razor is
never misplaced when his
choice is a
KROPP cr^
It never requires grinding
ĥ
KRQPP
ALL - BRITISH
Supplied with Black, Xylonite or Ivory Handles.
* Each Razor in a case.
Obtainable (rom all Hairdressers, Cutlers, Stores, etc.
Wholesale only —
OSBORNE. GARRETT & CO. LTD., London, England
<£>lgi
in
iiM i
s
9
3
8
4-
Three
Supreme
Essentials
In any watch three supreme
essentials are Accuracy,
Durablity, and Value. In
an Elgin these essentials
reach perfection, with the
added merit of supreme
beauty of design.
Elgin—the watchword for
Elegance and Efficiency
OBTAINABLE AT ALL LEADING JEWELLERS
THIS TRADE MARK
ħ
IN THE WATCH CASE
16 H P. 6-c W;
SUNBEAM
A WONDERFUL specification at a moderate price. A powerful
smooth-running engine. Four speed, right-hand, gate-change
gear-box. Smooth operating four wheel brakes. A chassis
designed for strength without an ounce of superfluous weight. Long,
cantilever rear springs with shock absorbers for the maximum of
comfort. Coachwork roomy, comfortable and exclusive in the refine-
ment of its line. Specially constructed for arduous conditions, having
a minimum ground clearance of 10 inches.
Radiator designed with sufficient capacity and a fan to ensure efficient
cooling in tropical heat. Write for full par ' ulars to:—
AUTHORISED DEALERS.
THE ALL BRITISH MOTOR CO. PTY., LTD., 111-113 Russell Street, Melbourne.
WILLIAMS, HILL & CAMERON, LTD., 205-207 Castlereagh Street. Sydney.
AUSTRAL MOTORS, LTD., Corner Hay and Pier Streets, Perth; and Queen Victoria
Street, Fremantle.
RASCH MOTORS, LTD., 69 VVaymouth Street, Adelaide.
MANUFACTURERS:
THE SUNBEAM MOTOR CAR CO., LTD.,
Wolverhampton, England.
SPECIAL EXPORT DEPARTMENT:
12 Princes Street, Hanover Square, London, W.l.
Cables: “SUBEAMOCO,” London.
OTHER MODELS.
20 and 25 h.p. 6-cylinder with open or cdosed eoachwork.
ALL SUNBEAM OVERSEAS MODELS ARE BUILT WITH CORRECT TRACK AND
NECESSARY GROUND CLEARANCE.


It’s So
■
\i
A
NS*
WBSSf
/, \o>
/Uj
; -
£
. 4m.r -
W«
N
jffluj day/
HE deliciousness of Grape-Nuts is certain
* to win you to this healthful, nourishing
food. Its irresistible appeal to appetite—its
ideally balanced nourishment and its crisp
crunchiness—these are strong reasons why
you should always give Grape-Nuts a daily place on
your table. From wheat and malted barley come the
food elements you need for health and energy; you
have these elements—every one—in Grape-Nuts.
Other Post Products
your grocer sells are
Instant Postum and
Post Toasties. Ask
about them.
Wholesale Agents:
LEWIS & CULL,
316 Pitt Street.
Sydney.
Grape=Nuts
Missing Friends.
TO DANIEL JOHN PAGE, formerly of Torrum-
barry Lock, in the State of Victoria, but now
of parts unknown, Chef. TAKE NOTICE that your
wife, Maud Page, has instituted proceedings against
you for divorce on the ground of desertion. Unless
you enter an appearance in the Prothonotary’s Office,
Supreme Court, Melbourne, on or before the Sixth
day of September, 1927, the case may proceed in
your absence. McLaughlin Eaves and Johnston, of
440 Chancery-lane, Melbourne, Solicitors for the
Petitioner.
If nny illustration in The Bulletin takes
your fancy, write to thi Manager, who will
quote you price for the original.
Missing Friends.
“pUTTLEFISHfrom N.Z. Cicely de-
sires communicate, but L. Davis (New
York) has lost address.
“THE WOMAN’S MIRROR.”
PRICE 3d.
Contains everything a woman needs to know.
MERITESTS
PLAINWORDS PUZZLE
IN AID OF SYDNEY HOSPITAL.
£lOO WAITING FOR YOU
Certain letters in the story below have
been purposely omitted.
FILL THEM INTO THE WORDS IN
THE WAY YOU THINK THE AUTHOR
HAS WRITTEN THEM ORIGINALLY,
AND IF YOU ARE CORRECT YOU
WIN £lOO.
If no all-correct solution is submitted
£5O will lie awarded to the competitor
with the fewest mistakes and £5O added
to the next competition, and so on until
the accumulated prize is won outright.
RULES OF ENTRY.
Prizes are awarded strictly and only on
merit. In the event of a tie, the prize
will be divided.
No competitor can win more than pne
share of a prize in any one competition.
Meritests decision shall be final and
binding on all competitors.
Messrs. Perry and Johnson, public
accountants, will supervise adjudication.
ADDITIONAL ENTRIES MAY BE MADE ON PLAIN PAPER.
Each Entry 1/-.
______ No. 6 Story
During/Springti . e/in/the /sanctuary/of/the/city s/b . s . y/
parks/the/lea . y/trees/h . ld/myriads/of/beautiful/ . . . ttering/
birds/while /way/out/back/the/scrub/holds/infinite/variety /of/
insect/life/Butterflies/ . . ecked/in/brilliant /colourings/with /
gau . y/wings/that/gli . te . /brightly/in/the/radiant/sun/and/
. . mble / bees/that / . ive / among / the / trees / and / shrubs /
All / kinds /of / . . . mals /ro . . / about /at / large /
but /in / places / where / the / . ank / grass/grows/sna es/
cunningly/concealed/lie/with/ . umb/yet/grim/intent/waiting/
for/unwary/ones/to/come/within/their/dreaded/ . oils/
Each Dot ( . ) represents One Omitted Letter.
TO MB RITE STS, 210 ELIZABETH STREET, SYDNEY.
[ enclose postal note, value numbered as entrance fee for
enclosed solutions and agree to abide by your Rules of Entry.
NAME '
ADDRESS
TOWN
No G riainwords Puzzle is published in advance in order to give readers in all parts
of the Commonwealth, New Zealand and the Islands a chance to compete.
Entries Must Reach Meritests On or Before
MONDAY, AUGUST 29, 1927.
Four Competitors in First Two Puzzles Won £5O Each.
One Competitor Won £lOO in No. 3 Puzzle.
The Little Sisters
Tennon's Hotel
BRISBANE
The [?] of Queensteads
Disting[?]hed Soc[?] Life!
QUEENSLAND.
Brisbane.
The Governor and Lady Goodwin have
been putting in some time at suburban shows,
Ithaca and Mount Gravatt principally. At
Mount Gravatt the Governor admired the
roses and the cabbages. He said the Klumpp
roses would compare with any in the world,
and he has been in Kashmir, where roses arc
roses.
Brisbane is forming a branch of the Vic-
toria League, and her Ex. was at the inaugu-
ral meeting. Beulah Bolton explained the
objects of the league. Lady Goodwin also
went to speech day of the Brisbane High
School. The M. T. Wilsons did the honors.
Their Exes, were at Ascot races for the
first day of the July meeting. Stocks and
sweet-peas filled flower-beds and air with
fragrance. The Governor lunched with the
Q.T.C. committee. Lady Goodwin, who was
entertained in a setting of roses, wore a
fawn tweed tailor-made, with a copper-straw
hat; Mrs. Campbell matched her fairness
with black cloth and a mastic hat; Mrs.
Cadell Garrick wore coral jersey cloth;
Strella Wilson was in mr.stic crepe de Chine
with black-furred coat: Mrs. Isaac Moore
wore a raisin-coat frock, and Irma Dearden
was in coral pink.
At the opening night of “The Gondoliers,”
at His Majesty’s, a vice-regal box was
arranged in the centre of the dress-circle, and
a bouquet of violets and daffodils greeted Lady
Goodwin.
Edward Colclough and Luis Amadeo
Parfes have dated the opening of the new
Hall of the Muses for Saturday. Ned Col-
clough’s work is to be the first exhibited.
This is a snapshot of Mrs. Coungeau, one
of the talented women whose verse appears
from time to time in The Bulletin.
Those who believe that environment influ-
ences destiny
will find cor-
roborative evi-
dence in the
fact that she
has lived her
life amidst
p i c t u r esque
and romantic
s u r roundings.
She was
brought up in
the little vil-
lage of St.
Osyth, in Sus-
sex, a county
of folk whose
proud boast is
that they look
bigger fools
than they are
—“Seely Sus-
sex” is a title
prized within
the boundaries
and valued at its ironic worth -by neighbors.
She lived in a habitable part of a priory
built in the twelfth century, and imbibed a
love of hoary relics with her mother’s milk.
Now she has taken up her abode in Bribie
Island, in Moreton Bay, and finds in her
surroundings an endless source of inspira-
tion. A book of her verse is in the press.
His Majesty’s bubbles with Gilbert and
Sullivan. People speak quite cheerfully of
standing from two till seven to wait for the
gallery doors at “The Mikado,” and the
reserveds have been comfortably full—just
as well on these exceptionally cold nights.
However, we are not as cold here as they are
in Stanthorpe, where the thermometer went
down to 25 below freezing-point.
We are feeling very bitter here about the
battue on the little native-bear which began
on Monday. It will probably mean the
koala’s entire finish. They are such sensitive
little beggars, and pine at the death of a
mate or offspring. But all letters and beat-
in ers at political gates were in vain. So
Norman Lindsay’s pictures of Billy Blue-
gum may have archaeological interest soon.
The Australian film “The Term of His
Natural Life” is voted here as good as any
American picture. One girl cried all through
it.
Percy Brier has been talking about the
educational value of music at the Women’s
Club. Marie Knight Corkran sang, among
other things. “Butterflies,” the words of
which are by Mrs. Forrest and the music
by Percy Brier. The second week in October
is to be sacred to music in Brisbane.
Dame Marie Cowley, the widow of the
knight who was once Speaker of the Assem-
bly, has left to visit her sister, Lady Camp-
bell. in South Africa. The Cowleys came
from Durban to these parts in the early
days of Queensland sugar-growing. The
Ascanius carried her away.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA.
Adelaide.
The Wallace Bruces held a dance for eldest
daughter Gwen’s coming out, with such
spring-like things as almond blossom, Coota-
mundra wattle and sweet-peas to give the
lie to the coldest snap we’ve had for IS
years. There was jazzing in one marquee
and supper in another, with bridge for non-
dancers.
The J. H. Gosses (he is the club’s presi-
dent) did the honors at the Rowing Club
hop at the Osborne Hall, reinforced, when
the mayoral party arrived, by a committee
of members in blazers who held oars aloft
for an entrance archway. The club colors
were the keynote of the decorations; scarlet
and black and gold streamers from the ceil-
ing to meet scarlet and black and gold panels
on the walls.
For the Dalcroze committee’s dance Mrs.
H. C. Cave, Mrs. C. A. Scales, Mrs. A. S.
Blackburn and Mrs. Frank Stevens headed
a committee of a dozen or so of the younger
set, and there was an attendance that should
warrant a useful cheque being sent London-
wards to help Marjorie Bonnin to continue
her studies.
For the rest, life has been mostly placid.
We’ve had a Repertory performance of
Ibsen’s “Little Eylof,” in which Beryl
Kekwick won honors as the Rat-Wife; a
hunt at Strathalbyn—shorn, alas! of the
glories of former days when ’twas an affair
of a week-end with dancing and dinners and
a picnic as well as hunting; and Horace
Trennery's exhibition of attractive pictures.
The Girls’ Club, 21) years old and with a
club-house, always full, that gives a home
to 32 girl workers, has read its annual re-
ports and elected its officers.
From England comes news of the Talbot
Smiths, in London now after six weeks’
motoring in the south of England and with
a visit to the Seton-Watsons in the north of
Scotland as their next objective. There is
news, too, of the Cloughs, once well known
to the elder generation here but living in
England since he retired from the South
Australian railways. They’ve just had their
golden wedding. Of their three sons one,
Eric, was killed in France; another was
decorated for his practically-expressed dis-
like of “U”-boats, and the third has a seat
on Fogtown’s Wool Exchange.
A London note about an old friend: —
Years ago Margot Asquith set the whole town
talking when she allowed her London house to be
used for a mannequin parade, and several society
matrons are aiming at extra-smartness by reviving
Margot’s scheme. Lady Weigall lent her house in
Berkelev-square for such a show on June 10, the
favored frock-seller being Lady Egerton, who brought
over the goods and some mannequins from Paris.
Several London girls also donned the gowns for the
inspection of a very exclusive set of visitors. Princess
Mary was among the patrons.
TASMANIA.
Hobart.
The opening of Parliament took place in
bad weather with as much pomp and circum-
stance as is permitted in these practical times.
The O’Grady was there on time as usual, but
he had to wait till the. guard of honor could
be mobilised. After the opening ceremony
Speaker Woods entertained his fellow-Parlia-
mentarians, their wives and friends and a
number of visitors at afternoon tea. Mrs.
Woods wore brown crepe de Chine, hat to
match and fox fur; Mrs. W. B. Propsting
was in dull green, and Margaret O’Grady
wore a beige frock and hat and musquash
coat with fox collar. Tea was served in the
dining-room, which, was crowded. Members
are proud of the fine new carpet in the Legis-
lative Council chamber, but now are realis-
ing—any housewife could have warned them
—that it makes the seats look shabby.
Rotarians, at their weekly luncheon, heard
a reading of Lady Gregory’s play “The Work
house Ward.” E. E. Unwin talked about the
aim and scope of the Repertory Theatre
movement, which is in its infancy here but
is rapidly getting a hold.
Mrs. Stella Montefiore. who, as Stella Mac-
farlane, has been one of the brightest lights
of our Repertory co., and who. as “Aunt
Stella,” is well known to the kiddies through
7ZL, is spreading her wings for a trip to
the Cold Country.
The O’Grady takes a stricter view of the
obligations of “official mourning” than—
well, some people. A fortnight of official
sackcloth and ashes having been prescribed
by the Empire’s authorities on the deatli
of poor cancer-tortured Ferdinand, the
O’Grady has strictly barred all social func-
tions, and the opening of Parliament and
everything in connection therewith, so far as
he was concerned, had to be strictly an
official matter.
WESTRALIA.
Perth.
The Children’s Hospital dance in the
Y.A.L. Hall was a very bright affair. Mrs.
Sliortland-Jones was the hostess and Mrs.
I). D. Paton, Mrs. Ambrose, Mrs. Thompson,
Mrs. Lindsay Male and Mrs. S. .Male of
Melbourne vied with each other in frocks
bought in Paris during recent visits. Horde?
of doctors and medical students took their
minds off clinics and capsules for the night.
To finance the Dental Hospital ball Mrs.
G. O. Tebbutt, assisted by Mrs. S. W. Mun-
sie, wife of the Minister for Health, and
other dentists’ wives, organised a monster
bridge party, which took place in the Green
Room Club.
Albert Lynch’s concert in the Town Hall
was a pronounced success. The violinist’s
technique has been greatly improved by four
years’ study abroad.
Mrs. A. H. Malloch, pictured here by
Bardwell Clarke, is an earnest worker for
the welfare of women and children. For
years, as State
secretary o f
th e Country
Wozpen’s As-
sociation, she
has travelled
over the State,
doing her best
to find out
what the wo-
men and kids
of the Back-
blocks most
need and going
back to see
what can be
done about it.
One of her
triumphs is the
rest-room that
has been estab-
lished in Perth
for country visi-
tors. Mrs. Mal-
loch and her
husband are now on holiday. They have
seen the Eastern States and were in Hong
Kong when last heard from. Java comes
next in their itinerary.
Colin Ednie-Brown, one of our leading
architects, at present in London, was booked
to marry Hilda Cox, in Christ Church, May-
fair, on August 3. The bride has been in
England for some time. They return in
October.


Amusements.
EMPIRE THEATRE,
Railway Square, adjoining Saunders’ Corner,
in Quay Street, Sydney.
Rufe Naylor has the honor to present
2/6 the student prince 5/6
liy arrangement with J. J. and Lee Shuhrat,
of New York.
NIGHTLY, 7.45 SHARI’.
Reserves' at Theatre (M.A. 10001. NiehoLon
Paling’s, Hotel Australia, Usher’s, Carlton. Samuel -.
Matinees Wednesday and Saturday at 2. (
Theatre Box Office Hours: 9 to 3, 4 to 9.
SYDNEY’S ('HI EE THEATRES
J. C. WILLIAMSON. LTD., present
HER MAJESTY’S:
MADA ME POMPADO UR.
CRITERION: THE GHOST TRAIN.
ROYAL: THE RINGER.
PALACE : JACOB’S LADDER. _
gT. JAMES THEATRE, SYDNEY.
Sir Benjamin and John fuller Present
LADY, BE GOOD!
The Musical Comedy Supreme.
Matinees Wednesday and Saturday, 2.15.
Plan at Nicholson’s and Theatre.
RICKARDS’ TIVOLI THEATRES.
r * I i '.>ees: Harry Rickards’ Tivoli Theatres, Ltd.
MELBOURNE and SYDNEY.
TWICE EVERY DAY 2.30 and 8.
CELEBRITY VAI DEVILI.I .
The World’s Best.
J.
C. YV ILLIA M S O N, LID.,
M EL BO URN E ATTRACTIONS.
HIS MAJESTY’S: ROSEMARIE.
KING’S THEATRE:
CRADLE SNATCHERS.
THEATRE ROYAL: FRASQ UIT A.
TMEN Hi U M TIIE A l RE,
MELBOURNE.
Proprietor: Frank Talbol Pty., Ltd.
Lessee: E. J. Carroll.
EVERY EVENING AT 8.15,
E. J. CARROLL PRESENTS
OUTWARD ROUND,
One of the most remarkable plays of this generation
Plans a! Allan’s.
DAL ACE THEATRE, MELBOI 11NE.
■ Proprietors: Sir Benjamin and John Fuller.
PHILIP I.YTTON Presents
THE SHEIK
THE PLAY, NOT THE PICTURE.'
Nightly at 8.
Matinees Wednesday and Saturday, 2.15.
Plans at Glen’s and Theatre.
|U| YJESTIC THEATRE. MELBOURNE.
,VI FOUR BIG ATTRACTIONS. A New Series of
PICTURES THAT TALK.
HELEN CHADWICK and DOROTHY REYII.K m
STOLEN PLEASURES.
Also BILLIE DOVE in
THE SENSATION SEEKERS.
And
ROUND THE WORLD IN AN ARM-
CHAIR.
Box Plan at Allan’s and Theatre. ’Phone 7(L0A7i90.
LJOYT’S DE LUXE THEATRE
n MELBOURNE.
COLLEEN MOORE in
ORCHIDS AND ERMINE.
AI.SO
JOHN GILBERT in
THE SHOW.
Prices as usual.
AUDITORIUM, MELBOURNE.
Sole Lessees: J. & N. Tait.
E. J. CARROLL Presents
THE W ORLD-FAMOUS PIANIST
IGNAZ FRIEDMAN.
AUGUST 6,9, 11, 13 and 10.
rH E ALL A N WIL K I E SHAK-
-1 SPEAREAN PRODUCTIONS.
NEW ZEALAND TOUR:
DUNEDIN - H. IM. Theatre, July 30 to August 19.
Sydney Manager: J. V. De Batyn.
ead Office: Pulsford’s Chambers, 178 Castlereagh St.
able and Telegraphic Address: “Othello,” Sydney.
G.P.O. Box 2229 LL.
Legal Notices.
Q E JOHN FRANCIS MAJOR, late of
A Laura, near Cooktown, in the State of
Queensland, Saddler, Deceased.
NOTICE IS HEREBY GIVEN to MAX
OERTEL MAJOR, a brother of the above-
named, and to his children (if any) that lie
or they are required to send in particulars of
Lis or their claim or claims against the
Estate of the said deceased to THE LOCAL
DEPUTY PUBLIC CURATOR. TOWNS-
VILLE, on or before the Thirty-first day of
October, One thousand nine hundred and
twenty-seven, otherwise the Estate of the
said deceased will be distributed amongst the
parties entitled thereto disregarding the
claims of the said MAX OERTEL MAJOR
and his children (if any) and all persons
claiming by. through or under them or any
of them by derivative title or otherwise how-
soever.
Dated at Townsville, in the said State,
this Twentieth day of July. 1927.
ALAN FORD,
Local Deputy Public Curator.
Townsville.
THE next of kin of CHARLES HAY-
A WARD, born in Somerset. England, but
late of Reef ton, Cambridge* Taurauga and
Auckland, New: Zealand, or anyone knowing
tlieir whereabouts, are requested to com-
municate with the
DISTRICT PUBLIC TRUSTEE,
Auckland, New Zealand. i
Jl
L
Smart and Dressy
Shoes made of
the highest quality
leather . . . extremely
durable . . • always in
good taste.
Shoe 6
FOR MEN
Many Styles —
Priced Moderately
32/6 to 50A
the pair.
Ask your nearest
Retailer or
Storekeeper
MS 8
ARCHITECTS, ARTISTS, DESIGNERS,
DRAUGHTSMEN & OFFICE USE.
MADE
BRITISH
Perfection
RITX K. RUBBER
h
85/- “W inner”
Tennis Racquet for
651-
A Great Special at Murdoch’s. Super
excellent hand-made frame of two
pieces, rent ash. Strung with finest
English gut.
Postage Free. Write to Desk R.
MURDOCH’S IN PARK ST. LTD., SYDNEY
lit
0
Vaseline
TRADE MARK
PETROLEUM JELLY
FOR SCALDS AND BURNS
Cover affected area with
“Vaseline” Jelly spread on
linen or gauze. It’s pure and
safe to use on all minor cuts,
wounds, bruises, bumps.
Look for the Trade Mark “ Vaseline "
It is your protection
Chesebrough Mfg. Co., Cons’d
New York London Montreal
Legal Notice.
MI S SING BENEFICIARY.
ANY ]>crson knowing the address of MRS.
CHRISTINA GODWIN (nee Corbett),
who left New Zealand or (i years ago. and
whose last known address was c/o G.P.0.,
Sydney, is requested to communicate with the
DISTRICT PUBLIC TRUSTEE,
Dunedin, New Zealand.
Missing; Friends.
IF PHILIP AMPHLKTT GRAY, or
01 ' knowing his whereabouts, will
munieate with Gladys, c/o Bulletin,
Flinders-street, Melbourne, he will hex
something greatly to his advantage.
any-
com-
-114
tr of
Answers to Correspondents.
A'o notice (except of a hostile character) will he
taken of communications insufficiently stamped.
Same and address must appear on the MS. Ao
liability is undertaken ve contributions volun-
tarily submitted: and no MS. will be returned
unless stamps accompany.
Billy Deb.: Just missed R.L.P.: Ditto.
.. . . K.A.J.: Too obstetric. ... A.R.M.: Has good
qualities ; but you haven’t persuaded us that the lad\
is real.. . .C. 8.8.: “Big Things” has one good par.
in it.... E.J.: Rhymed copybook maxims....
0.H.5.: Pale, indefinite fancies... .T.K.McI..: For
one tiling, our moon does not “its picture paint on
worlds unknown to us”. .. .K.M.K. : The lover "ho
“feared to brush her slender shoulder with his for
fear of ignition” is certainly an out-of-the-wa\
creation... .Eden: Contains no apple to tempt u 5....
A. 8.: Human document all right in its way, but
not our way;.. .Z.V.W.: The good old property of
the changed infants, even to the identifying birth-
mark. ... J.E.S.: Weak craftsmanship....R.G.: “Moon
Song” is moonshine. . . .G.K.W.: With all Australasia
for story plots, we don’t want any dug out of the
Frozen North 1.15/I’.: The doctor who said it
was no use attempting to cure the disease you
indicate by discreet dashes is an impossibility....
. ...N.J.8.: Wants a better finish H.N.S.: Each
one is likeable but has weaknesses. Try them again ,
and keep off stilts Don E.: Good subject poorly
treated.... .S,M.L.: Bring the perambulator for that
infant effort Phil G.: “The Hole in the Sock”
took a lot of darned trouble to read. And then
wasn’t worth it.....81ue Blazes: Once knew a ludj
named Helen Blazes; and we liked Helen better....
Norm. F.: The elegy is too discursive:.. .Komik:
Glad to hear that music “quells life’s bitter squall.
T.G.W.: Admire your simple confidence that
they are no good. It’s justified M.11.M.: Arti-
ficial idea and treatment. “Music inaccessible to sin”
is nonsense, anyway... .Jim i). (Mildura): Referring
the question to a. Real Poet, we learnt that the best
thing about wattle is that it rhymes with “bottle.”
Clyde 0. (Club) : That extra-word line sticks
out from the verses like a dog’s wounded log. .. .
Jim M.: You strike some ruts in your song about
the drive Betty 15.: May do; good imagery
W.B. (Sydney) : Interested in your wish for “a shady
spot,” where you can rhyme “grass” with “past.
Keep on looking for it. .. . D.J.K.C.: A our verses
to a sundial are even worse than the average lines
written to a lady’s dial....T. Mac: “Grandmother’s
Portrait” goes back... .A.P.R.: Dreary. A satire
has to be crisp.... Gerald H.: Story doesn’t carry
conviction; but the verse would if there "as a la"
against bad poetry.... Ruth: Nice; but watch youi
form.. .‘.1.G.: “Eve” not wanted in our Garden of
Eden Helen 11. ; The average priest does the same
thing better without calling it poetry.... E.M.S.:
None of the sea verses reach port Billy 1).:
Pleasing story, but not enough in it A.S.W.:
Why “the garden suburb of X —”? Are you afraid
ef the aldermen waiting for you with bottles? Why,
also, invent a fictitious name for a horse that won
the Melbourne Cup in 1903 ?... .R.W.N.: Too much
like a newspaper report of the happening....
W’.J.T.: Indefinite... .Matt R.: The man with
the desert delirium has died too often... .Dick 15.:
Forced jesting. .. .Rabbi Rah: Not pointed enough.
....Cos L. M.: Well, it’s not true of Thk Bulletin,
!at any rate. It fought for Protection when manu-
| facturers were far too poor to advertise MAY.:
(Neutral Bay): Separate right of republication
i belongs to the author. Neither suitable, however
; T.McD.: Faint idea N.L.S.: Why make a Bunyan’s
i Christian of your inky wayfarer? Jim Horn:
!No thrill in that thieving J.L.P.: So the proud
j Earl prayed by ttie cot of the little street arab ?
How very Australian!... .A\m. C.: What is golden
lavish” ?.'.. .N, W.: Nearly.... R.H.8.: Long, dreary
yarn in poor doggerel... .W.8.M.: Wattle verse fair
in form, but poor in matter... .A.E.W.: Too many
leaves have floated on the rough eddies of life....
Ego: A hundred bards have told us that the wattle is
a whisper of Spring Banjo S. : Unless you
had mentioned that it was poetry, we wouldn’t have
guessed. .. . S.T.L.: “f forward a prose stoiy. A
prosy 0ne.... Cam D.: “The soul still needs its
medicine.” Is that why you write verse that seems
like a pill? 8.Y.N.: “Clift's of Dover” too rugged.
Jim G. O.: Too late now to, cry over “Spilt
Milk” J.M.C.: Our tame curate went wild over
the idea of the parson going round to take the
offertory.... 8.J.M.: “And still my bride doth silent
weep..”” Well, dam her! C.L.1).: Your Pegasus
needs grooming.... Percy Prelate: So the sinner
succumbed, ell? Knocked out with the piiestb rite,
I ...K.O. (Albany, W.A.) : That’s what happened
to the story Irene R.: Almost thou temptest
us; but it is (as a story) too frail.... Pat: Suspect
vour tigers were dogs. The verse barks. .. .W.B. S.:
i Slight. . .Raja: Full of cheap, overused phrases....
Billy 1).: Good idea, inadequately expressed
Gab L.: “Tut, tut,” said the old man. So did we.
B.F.C.: That fly story is swatted... .Ivy G.: The
carry-over from verse to verse disorganises it....
Mrs. George W.: Too like a memoir.... Esta L.: The
crux of the story is not developed in a convincing-
manner ; there is some good work, and a good idea in
it P.T.C.: “Student Days” is a mere riot of anec-
dotes Brid: The ’orse verses ran dead W.H.R.:
The rhyme about the friend in-kneed knocked us
bandy S.F.P. (Kaini) : Raw subject poorly cooked.
j H.E.T-C.: Its long sentences condemn it
Abe: Crude 0.M.R.: Trite thoughts.. . .M.W.
j (Wanganui) :It carries no story E.M.C.: Too
'frail to stand print.... Richmond: No use for that
j sort of disquisition Harold C.: Improving. There’s
| a good swing to it A.M.: It’s mournful that any-
j one should think that item laughable. .. .William C.:
“Vale” has beauties, but there are marks of the spade
| and trowel on it W.T.M.: Short of predicates and
other desirable things Mignonette: It’s too frail a
little bloom that we expected to find an aphis colony
at the back of every leaf A.W.R.: Ho be a
little more cheerful J. 8.5.: You're quite wrong.
“C.J.H.,” the man who asked “Why Should Sheep
Die in Millions ?” wrote liis article from the West of
N. S. Wales, where he has lived for many years
E.M.: Nothing new in it.... Alice Y.: Ditto, though
the style is good E.D.C.: Much too long
g.V.0.: Sorry, but space won’t let us discuss un-
acceptable articles submitted for Red Page. Theie
is nothing the matter with scores of them ; -simply
there, isn’t space for them.
TO ARTISTIC (AND INARTISTIC)
CORRESPONDENTS.
V.M.: The landlady is about as picturesque as a
half-plucked Black Orpington A.E.T.: Not bad
from the eyebrows upwards; the rest, is as bad as it
could be.... E.J.: The salesman sold the car, but
you couldn’t get rid of the drawing... .T.S.: There
is not an artistic fault you haven’t jambed in
V F • We’ve never seen a golfer strike an attitude
like 'that.... D. 0.: D —n J.S.: Your fears were
warranted....N.M.N.: Art isn’t your game. Have
you tried tuckpointing?...-J-M.: The men who
fought at Minden chuckled over that gag.
THE INKY WAY.
■'Jouy Shoo": Purchased my lirst Bul-
letin on landing in Melbourne in and
for 2tJ years received it direct from the head
office; the other IT* from the nearest agent
in MX. Only one mailed copy failed to
materialise on time: it arrived many weeks
later, stained and bedraggled, and across the
wrapper was stamped in reddish-brown ink.
"Ex Wairarapa.” 1 kept it as a memento
until a human survivor of the wreck annexed
it.
"Old York": Nat Gould’s first book was
certainly written as a serial for the
Referee : but it was not "With the Tide"
(15. 2<S,/7/'27). The story in question was
based on the venture of .Tames White in
breeding two colts in Australia and entering
them for the English Derby—and it was
called “Blue and White.” those being
White’s racing colors.
“Coot": Oswald Pryor's illustrated joke
concerning the sick Cornisliman and the
heavenly choir 1 15. 2S/7/’27) recalls the little
boy’s addition to his evening prayer when
his grandmother died: "Please God. give
granny a harp and not a trumpet, 'cause
she's short-winded.”
“Tenakohc” : The historic siege by bailiffs
of Sydney Truth office in the pre-Norton
era (B. 7/7/'27) did not take place at the
King-street premises for which John's execu-
tors have just refused £II.‘•.(MM). The scene
of the siege was the original office of the
paper at the bottom of Bank Court, next
to (lie corner of King and. George -streets.
Built by convicts as a depot for stores in
bulk, the old warren, fortified by barred
windows, was not difficult to defend. A. G.
Taylor would sit at the ground-floor window
and receive copy passed in through a size-
able slit, cut in the three-inch timber of the
massive door. Occasionally he would admit
a friend when the besiegers slackened in their
vigilance. Food, beer and other necessities
for the garrison were hoisted in a basket
hung on a pulley attached to one of the old-
fashioned projecting “loft beams” that stuck
out over the lane. That old rat-infested
building was also the birthplace of the Star,
the paper which subsequently developed into
the SUN and nowadays boasts “the largest
circulation in Australia.”
“A.G.M.” (Loud.) : I ran across Miles
Franklin the other day. en route to have
"a flow of soul” with Mary Fullerton. This
Victorian pen worn an shares a charming flat
in Kensington with her friend Mrs. Single-
ton. Her recent novel. “The People of the
Timber Belt,” was very favorably reviewed,
and the cognoscenti who have had a chance
to read her “Bark House Days” want it
reprinted for London consumption. Mary is
at work upon another full-length novel, and
her poems and short articles find acceptance
in the Sunday Times, the Westminster
Gazette and Manchester Guardian. Miss
Franklin still hopes to be in Australia
before Christmas. Free from a devouring
job. she is going home "to worship the trees
and sit under her mother’s guava bush.”
“Boulder Block”: The Sunday press of
Groperland wallowed in alliterative head-
lines in its early days, an unconscious tri-
bute possibly to the catchpenny Norton
methods. Some of the captions were start-
ling enough. Hugh Mahon, into whose hands
had fallen some early-day indiscretions of a
State Minister in the form of one or two
passionate love-letters to an actress, briefly
labelled his chronique scundateuse “V —'s
Vows to Venus” —the initial letter of the
assailed person’s name was the one which
DickeilS’s cockneys were prone to convert
into “w.” Another editor genially headed
a diatribe on a rival broadsheet, whose editor
was standing for a Federal seat, “A Jelly-
fish journal and a Jimcrack .Toss.” Finally
Tommy Walker, now the decorous Speaker of
the TV.A. Assembly, on the eve of a general
election sternly stigmatised the outgoing Min-
istry in the boldest type the foreman could
find as “A Cabinet of Cunning Criminals,”
which possibly remains highwater mark in
the domain of alliterative abuse.
“Ignotus” : I once served under an editor
on a Labor daily who used to run a sort of
serial leader. “Things true,” he called it, and
it was a recital of all the wrongs of humanity
from pole to pole. “ 'Tis true that Japan has
enslaved Korea,” “ 'Tis true that trial by
jury lias been abolished in Ireland,” “ ’Tis
true , that the capitalists are libelling Rus-
sia,” “’Tis true that the wealthy grind the
faces of the poor in Australia,” and so on,
day after weary day. He used to write on
the top of the first slip “Cut off where neces-
sary,” this because the directors had tied
hini down to two columns for the leader.
We subs, used to run a little sweep on tin-
number of countries that would be men-
tioned in the daily editorial; it was seldom
less than 40 or 50.
The Bagmen’s Association is running its
usual Children’s Portraits competition in con-
nection with its 23rd Australia To-day
Christmas annual. Entries should be in by
October 1.
"Oxmcad” : ,T. M. Drew, who has held a
portfolio in every Labor Government in
W.A. since 1904, is an old journalist and
one of the few who have had the rare experi-
ence of a period of imprisonment over a lib 4
action. That was 32 years ago. when in Ids
local paper, the Geraldton Express, lm
published a letter reflecting seriously on the
local hospital and the R.M.O. The latter
brought an action for damages which was
tried before then Chief Justice Onslow.
Drew left the outspoken F. C. B. Vosper in
charge of liis sheet while he went to Perth
to face the music, and relations between th?
defendant and the Judge immediately be-
came strained when Vosper, the day before
the trial began, published a paragraph stat-
ing that the .Court would probably resemble
a siege hospital, owing to the number of wit-
nesses who had been subpoenaed to testify
to the doctor’s indifferent surgical methods.
There were some further allegations of con-
tempt of court, including the defendant's
flat refusal to throw any light on the identity
of the writer of the defamatory letter. Li
the end the doctor got a verdict for £5OO
damages and the future Minister was com-
mitted to gaol for a fortnight for the con-
tempt in question, lie went there in tin-
capacity of a stickler for principle and
emerged to find himself somatiling of a
popular hero.


1 ve tried
REX-PYE
as a
Hot DisH.
, It is
delicious
i i
'V* v
I
V.
Off"
ĥ
You like REX-PYE cold.
Now try it as a hot dish.
No bones, no waste—just perfect- wholesome meat
in ielly. every morsel eatable and delicious !
Punch a small hcle in the bottom of the hygienic can,
cut around the can just below the top edge and the
KEX-PYE falls on the dish in a compact
easily cut into slices. Note its delicate appetising
aroma.
A delicious lunch prepared in a moment— PsEX-PYE
served with salad! You’ll like it with mint sauce,
too. And it is equally as tasty, wholesome and
delicious WHEN EATEN HOT. Just place the
can in boiling water for about twenty minutes and
serve the steaming contents with the ordinary vege-
tables fo* dinner. Or turn the 'REX-PYE cold into
a dish and bake with a covering of paste or potatoes.
R.EX-PYE, in lib and }4ib cans, is the finest meat in
the world.
Always say REX-PYE,
Foggitt Jones Ltd,
Carers of the choice BvEX Hams and Bacon


TWO BANKS IN ONE
The General Banking Department opens current (cheque) accounts and
transacts every kind of Banking business associated with cheque accounts,
such as the accepting of fixed deposits at interest, the issue of drafts and
letters of credit; and the transaction of international business.
The Savings Bank Department provides a most efficient service for the
thrifty and for the people of smaller means, a service that includes interest-
bearing Savings accounts, the money-box and many banking facilities.
Both Departments will be found in every one of the Bank’s 87 Branches
and in addition practically every Post Office in Australia is an agency of
the Savings Bank. J
You can do business with either department, or both.
Open an account now with the
Commonwealth I# of flustrali
(Guaranteed by the Commonwealth Government.)
la
V #W'l'%/
CaSburvy*
C.D.M
DAIRY
MILK
NUT
CHOCOLATE
SUNDRY SHOWS.
SYDNEY SHuIVS FOR COMING WEEK.
Her Majesty’s “Madame Pompadour”
Criterion ••The Ghost Train”
Royal “The Ringer”
Palace “Jacob’s Ladder”
St. James “Lady, Re Good”
Empire “The Student Prince”
llvou Vaudeville
MELBOURNE SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
His Majesty’s “Rose Marie”
King’s “Cradle Snatchers”
Royal “Frasquita”
Atiienjjum , .... “Outward Round”
Palace “The Sheik”
Auditorium Ignaz Friedman
I_ivoli Vaudeville
Majestic Moving Pictures
Hoyt’s Moving Pictures
♦---
The thread of plot in “Lady, Be Good,”
staged at the St. .Tames on Saturday, is
thin enough to be barely visible in places,
but the players certainly keep the audience
entertained with bright songs, better dances
and some good comedy, of which Jimmy
Godden is the principal merchant. Judy and
Dick Trevor, thrown out of their ancestral
home by one of the reverses of fortune so
frequent in musical comedy, only occasion-
ally remember to be sorrowful about having
to “live on the sidewalk” ; and although they
are hungry enough to steal buns from a
butler’s tray it doesn’t occur to them to pawn
their dress clothes, which are presumably
kept hidden under some convenient bush for
use when required. Judy, who is Elsie
Prince (as rubber-legged as ever), on the
suggestion of a solicitor, J. Waterson Wat-
kins. masquerades as the Mexican widow of
a certain Jack Robinson in order to inherit
a fortune of a million dollars or so; and
Rufus Parkes (George Willoughby), who
seemingly carries that handsome sum in his
pants pockets, is just about to hand it over
when the young tramp who has made casual
love to Judy is revealed to everybody as the
supposedly dead Jack Robinson, who never
having acquired a wife couldn’t have left a
widow if he had died. T],'- happy chance
relieves brother Dick .r . ragedy of his
engagement with the wea .y Josephine Van-
derwater (who had him turned out of house
and home so that ho .could propose to her)
and enables all hands to sort themselves into
the proper couples—even Josephine finds her
real affinity in the lawyer—for the curtain-
fall.
* * *
Elsie Prince, who gambols gaily through
the part of the girl who seems as unsubdued
by starvation as she is unconcerned by piles
of dollars, scores her chief effect in the “Swiss
Miss” dance, in conjunction with Leonard
Rich : Jimmy Godden, a great deal more like
Jimmy Godden than a lawyer, extracts all
the comedy possible irom the preposterous
Waterson Watkins; and Charlton Morton, as
Bertie Bassett, makes a really passable silly
ass. A good voice helps out Claude Hol-
land's rather colorless representation of Jack
Robinson; Gladys Hermes is perky and
bright as Daisy "Parke, and Nellie Dean
(Josephine Vanderwater) and Elsie Parkes
perform all that is expected of them. An
avalanche of pretty chorus girls pours on
to the stage every now and again to supple-
ment the dancing activities of the principals;
but the star dance items are provided by
Helen and Frank, who indulge in more vio-
lent exercise in five minutes than the average
city man takes in as many years.
Maurice Moscovi’ch will introduce “The
Ringer” to the Sydney Royal on Saturday;
on the same night th 1 Repertory Society will
set up “Jacob’s Ladder” at the Palace
Theatre for one week only—Drinkwater’s
“Mary Stuart” is to fill the balance of a
fortnight’s season. t This means that the
grass-widows of “Cradle Snatchers” will
frivol with their immature lovers for the
last time to-night (Thursday) ; the show
has 112 performances to its credit. “The
Ghost Train’ will be shunted from the
Criterion after Friday week to allow Mar-
garet Laurence to introduce herself in “The
Road to Rome” ; Louis Bennison is with her,
and Billie Lockwood has the second feminine
lead in the part of Meta, a slave girl. Mean-
while “Madame Pompadour” is commanding
full audiences at Her Majesty’s; and “The
Student Prince” is making the box-office
receipts look good at the Empire. The chorus
of 28 male voices, sometimes belonging to
students and sometimes to soldiers and cour-
tiers. is more effective than ever now that
the play has been trimmed down to reason-
able limits. “Not To-night, Dearie,” is still
holding up Frank Neil’s end at the Grand
Opera House.
When the State Con. decided to burst
into grand opera with Weber’s “Euryantlie”
the Firm lent scenery and Gregqn McMahon
helped with the production, but Con. students
had to do the rest, and they did it remark-
ably well, all things considered.* The plot
of “Euryanthe,” depending as it does upon
the revelation of a supposedly dark and
dreadful secret which turns out to be a
rather tame disclosure, seems inadequate to
stir up all the brainstorms the characters
indulged in. For three acts the tide of
passionate melody dashes into foam on a
rock too small to warrant the disturbance.
On Saturday night Alfred llill ruled prin-
cipals. chorus and orchestra with his usual
good judgment. Millie Hughes, a dramatic
soprano of some promise, as Euryanthe;
and Nora Mack, a contralto with a good
stage sense, as Eglantine, played up well to
Molyneux Phillips, the engaging tenor, who
was Adolar, and Harold Tollemache, the
truculent Lysiart, who sang the baritone
solos tunefully. In subsequent perform-
ances there was a change of principals,
Daisy Mangan becoming Euryanthe, Violet
Rogers Eglantine and Bryson Taylor Adolar.
All shaped well.
** * *
“Julius Omsar,” which Arthur Greenaway
is to produce at the (Jonservatorium for three
nights beginning on Friday week (August
12) has had too many showings in Sydney.
Allan AVilkie, of course, did it; and Oscar
Asche presented a very unconvincing Antony
five years ago. Incidentally, the little Playbox
company has struck a winner with Sean
O’Casey’s “Juno and the Paycock.” The
Playbox repeats its performances every Wed-
nesuay; tins one has been so successful that
its run will not conclude until the last week
in August.
This week’s Eyceum offering, “Blighty,”
works on the theme of a whole nation’s
suffering, using the family whose war his-
tory is sketchily outlined, as a fair example.
The war scenes of the English picture, which
has El Inline Terriss as a central figure, are
worked with a stronger artistic verity than
the Yank cares to use. “That Model from
Paris,” which is joined in the bill, is a
spasm of hysteric sentimentality strung on a
thin story. Jules Verne, as a mine for
film stories, is levied on at Hoyt’s, in
“Michael Strogoff.” The story of Alexander
ll.'s courier has strong dramatic moments;
and some color photography is excellently
worked into the film. “See You in Jail” is one
of tlic impossible American stories which are
in places uproariously funny. At the Royal
“Ypres” is to finish to-morrow (Friday) ;
and the German picture, “Variety,” one of
the most artistic seen in Sydney, is shortly
to disappear from the Piccadilly. “The
Term of Ilis Natural Life” is rapidly re-
paying its producers by drawing crowds to
the Crystal Palace, and the spectacular “Ben
Ilur” has established itself firmly at the
Prince Edward.
** * *
The American boat due to arrive on Satur-
day will bring Frances Alda, with a voice
valued at thousands of pounds and new
frocks worth thousands more. The return-
ing Australian has the added recommenda-
tion of having made good in New York opera
since she left these shores. Her tour, which
“LADY, BE GOOD.” AT SYDNEY
ST. JAMES THEATRE.
Jimmy Godden giving his “kids” a blow out,
and George Willoughby masquerading
as Rufus Parke, of the Anchorage Hotel.
is the second venture of the new Concert
Tours, Ltd., is to open at the Sydney Towm
Hall on Saturday week.
* * ❖
Amy Rochelle, warbling “Pretty Little
Cinderella” and “Brown Eyes,” seems to
add to her popularity every night at Fullers’.
The Charleston Band justifies its retention;
and Stifty and Mo pad out the comedy
in much the same old way—-a way that
certainly never tires the Fuller audiences.
The three monkey stars, Max, Moritz and
Akka, not forgetting the kid, are holding
two receptions a day at the Tivoli. Tlieir
bicycle-riding is rather remarkable —especi-
ally when they circle the stage, three abreast;
and although the Simian boxers are not up
to Grime form, the bout is amusing. Elsie
Bower and Billy Rutherford have returned to
be received with tumults of applause; their
comedy is often too forced, but there is no
question about their earnest desire to please.
Rebe Kesslova, a “gipsy” violinist, and Linda
Bradford and Russo, provide acceptable con-
cert items; and Fink and Ayres are as dare-
devil as ever on skates.
“OUTWARD BOUND," AT
MELBOURNE ATHENAEUM.
The defunct Mrs. Midget gleans a few ideas
of Heaven from the Examiner—
(Henrietta Cavendish and Peter Gaw-
thorne).
A lady returns : $
Her show at the Macquarie Gallery, Bligh-street,
Sydney, suggests that Adelaide Perry, who went to
London in 1922 on the Melbourne National Gallery’s
travelling scholarship, has made up her mind to be
original. Occasionally but not often she is artistic,
too. Some of the broad, sweeping effects she favors
give a result more like linoleum than picture-painting ;
but there is an uncatalogued picture of a storm
approaching over the sea which is very well handled;
and there are a few others to match it. A still
life, “The Chinese Figure,” is effective; and the
portraits, although suffering from pallor, show
character.
* * * *
Fiddler Zimbalist deliberately challenged
comparison with Heifetz at Melbourne Audi-
torium one night last week by drawing his
bow at one of his predecessor's pet pieces,
Mendelssohn’s concerto in E minor, Op. 64.
He brought it down with a beautiful accu-
racy of aim, a cleanness of execution and
a warmth of emotion that not only lifted
Daine Nellie Melba to her feet- —that was
inevitable —but nearly made the small audi-
ence follow her example. If Heifetz turned
Mendelssohn from a musical Beau Nash into
a man of feeling, Zimbalist transformed him
into a reckless and impassioned superman.
He did much the same for Max Reger, alleged
by the programme to be unknown in Aus-
tralia, and he even made the frequently
enacted demise of Saint-Saeus’s : “Swan” a
new and poignant experience. Nevertheless
concert-going Melbourne remains largely un-
responsive. and entrepreneurs will think twice
before they are so consecutive with their
virtuosi again. When Dame Nellie, whose
admiration for the little Russian’s playing
has sometimes got in the way of her near
neighbors’ hearing, generously offered to sing
at one of his fixtures, the management pro-
bably went out and shouted itself a con-
gratulatory lemonade.
St. Peter Gawthorne, as the Examiner of
“Outward Bound,” continues to admit the
sheep and the goats into his unusual heaven
at the Athepseum with less support from the
public than the brightest show in Melbourne
deserves. It is father surprising the piece
isn’t rushed seeing that it is infinitely better
done and far more entertaining than the
company’s previous exhibits. Still those who
do go seem to enjoy themselves each after
his kind. When Zillah Bateman and J. B.
Rowe, after their attempt at suicide, slide
back into life, the gallery girls bury their
heads in their bangles and weep quietly on
to the heads of the intelligentsia in the stalls
who are appreciatively savoring the re-
strained and beautiful comedy of Henrietta
Cavendish as Airs. Midget, a creation whose
simple belief that the next world can’t be
half as good as tliis_ deserves to rank not far
below the famous heaven dreamed by Jur-
gen’s grandmother.
The forecast at Melbourne Princess is still
“Sunny,” whatever the weather prophet has
to say. The show in question continues to
contrive to push itself through three acts by
its own weight, much in the manner of aii
optimist trying to raise himself off the
ground by taking a vicious pull at his braces.
The effervescent thing has been tightened up
in places, however, and is easier to sit out
than it was. Although she does not give it
its name. Beatrice Kay is still far and away
the sunniest thing about it.
After Saturday “Frasquita” will be as if
she had never been as far as Melbourne
Royal is concerned. The hot breath of the
sirocco will commence to blow on the same
date at the Palace, where “The Sheik” is
due —the management is blowing about it
already. “Trilby” and Maurice Moscovitch’s
season ceased together at the King’s on Wed-
nesday, and “Cradle Snatchers” will com-
mence its gay career on Saturday. Else-
where business is as usual.
❖ * *
Ignaz Friedman, the Polish pianist, will
be next in the procession of world-famous
virtuosi passing through Melbourne. He will
lift the lid of the Auditorium piano on Satur-
day.
** * *
At Melbourne Majestic this week Irene
Rich is catching “The Honeymoon Express”
to happiness, with wayside stops at Tempta-
tion and Repentance. “The Music Master”
gives Alec Francis the opportunity to show
that lie is an unusually convincing shadow on
the screen. Hoyt’s multitudes are flocking to
see John Gilbert and Renee Adoree (pro-
bably family name of Smith) exercise their
well-known capacity for intensive loving, in
“The Show”; and “Orchids and Ermine,”
the follow-on, provides a display of purple
and fine wimmen.
** * *
“Florodora,” by the Victorian Opera Co.,
will follow on “Frasquita’s” scarlet heels at
Melbourne Royal on the Bth. A chorus and
ballet of 60 local belles and boys will be a
feature of the show, and another will be the
old duds George Lauri wore as Tweedle-
punch. These will be hung on the frame of
Mason Wood, who w r as the eerie Chow of
Oscar Asche's “Cairo.”
* * =|: si:
Victoria’s first feature film, “Environment,”
is still unwinding at Melb. Palace, but only two
opportunities remain for audiences to enjoy
the unusual experience of recognising their
own streets and lanes instead of the paste-
board ones of Hollywood, and the pleasant
hills of Warrandyte as a background for a
hero instead of the Rockies.
Clarence Weber, a beautifully designed
athlete, is at Melbourne Bijou demonstrating
the latest improvements in the wrestling art,
such as toeholds, thumb-screwings, eye-
gougings and neck-wringings, for the benefit
of those who are unable to listen or squeeze
in to the Stadium. Lorna, Lance and co.
are providing fair evidence that they arc Aus-
tralia’s Cleverest Children, and the George
Ward revue season shows no signs of abate-
ment.
Will Whitburn has returned to Melbourne
Tivoli with his old-time harmonies and his
colleagues with blackened faces, and the air
is likewise filled with negro music emerging
from Joe Aronson and liis Australian band
of synco-symphonists. Sid Beck, comedian,
is another revival of interest, and anybody
who missed Heifetz and Zimbalist can get
the gymnastic side of their genius from
violinist Hamilton Bateman.
Melbourne Art shows :
A varied show of etchings, woodcuts and lithos at
the Queen’s Hall, Melbourne, constitutes a history
of European graphic art over a considerable period.
Rodin, Rops, Zorn, Kirchner and 50 or so others
are represented, and anybody who wants to bring his
information on the subject up to date need only
walk round.
Judging by his first show (at the Athenaeum),
Edgar Finlay has been practising his vaulting ambi-
tion in a variety of styles, and he has knocked off
some startlingly good pictures by the way. His
still-lifes are arrangements of brilliant color hover-
ing between flat decoration and an atmospheric
manner. His large landscapes in oil are straight-
forward transcripts of the bush, and one in particu-
lar is as honest an attempt to put down the varie-
gated foliage of the gum as this commentator has
seen for some time. The water-colors are distinctly
attractive, and the artist mixes line-drawing with
an effect of aerial perspective in wash very success-
fully. He will bear watching.
The accurate Ure Smith, the pictorial Fulhvood,
the romantic and old-masterly Van Raalte and the
slightly prosaic Gayfield Shaw are filling the Sedon
Galleries with new etchings. Van Raalte’s forestry
(Continued on Page s f /.)


o
>3
m
's'.
s
m
2* X
*Hvi
‘Ah
ill
&
Consider
Your Face
Isn’t it worth the best razor you could buy—the razor that will
provide a smooth, keen-edged blade for every shave?
The cutting edge on all razor blades is dulled after each shave.
The infinitesimal teeth which make up the blade edge should be
stropped hack into alignment—or your skin will be scraped and
roughened with a dull, rough-edged blade.
Save your face! Valet Auto Strop Razor is
the only razor that sharpens its own blades
—while the blade remains in the razor. A
smooth, keen-edged blade for every shave.
Each outfit is complete with case, razor, strop
and extra blades. For sale at all stores
carrying shaving supplies.
The Auto Strop Safety Razor Co., Ltd.,
197-207 City Road, London, England.
Managing Agenis for Australia:
PHIPSON & COMPANY, LTD.,
181 Clarence Street, Sydney.
The illustration shows the new No. 55 Set.
With genuine “Valet” self-stropping razor,
strop and three blades in beautifully-finished
nickel case, lined purple velvet, with nickelled
strop container, complete as illustrated
for
10s.
BRITISH MADE.
iynt
Save Trouble
and a Mix upof Apparel
Which often nappens at the Laundry,
when Linen or Woollen Articles are not
plainly marked—so, be wise, save trouble
and loss, and
Mark all Linen with
CASHS NAMES
They are “BEST BY TEST” - absolutely
Fadeless and Durable.
“A Few Stitches and They’re on.”
Actual Sire Style No 6
PRICES
12 dot. 74
6 do?. s^'
3 doj. 3^
Sold by all Best Drapers
Write for Name Style Circular to
J. & J. CASH Pty. Ltd.
85 Cubitt Street, Richmond,
Melbourne
if any illustration in The Bulletin takes
your fancy, write to the Manager, who will
quote you price for the original.
ALL AUSTRALIANS visiting London
should read the British Australian
and New Zealander, 6d. weekly—an illus-
trated paper containing mail and cable news
from Australia and news of Australians in
Europe and at home. Australians are cordi-
ally invited to visit the British Australian
and New Zealander Reading-room at the
Offices, 414-17 Australia House, Strand,
London, WC.2, where they can see the home
papers, meet their friends, use the telephone
and obtain information without charge.
Copies of the paper and general information
can be obtained at the Australian Advertis-
ing Agency, Ltd.. 350 George Street, Sydney;
or 434 Collins Street, Melbourne.
Look for the Blue Machines-
YOU SEE THEM EVERYWHERE—
THERE MUST BE A REASON-
ASK ANY USER!
Pio
(131,
SVSe •
champion No. 1 High Efficiency Hoist
The Builders’ Favorite. Renders the Horse Whip or Hand Hoist obsolete.
Quick hoisting speeds up the whole job.
CAPACITY: 4001 b., i.e., fully loaded barrow of bricks or concrete at up to
1 40ft. per minute.
POWER UNIT: The Famous 3i-h. P . “CHAMPION” PETROL ENGINE.
Can also be used for driving saw or pump.
STRONG - - PORTABLE - - EASY TO WORK - - LOW IN PRICE
A PRODUCT OF
ARMSTRONG-HOLLAND, LIMITED,
4 Bridge Street, SYDNEY, and at Collins House, MELBOURNE.
DISTRIBUTORS—
BRISBANE: Australian Machinery Co., Adelaide Street.
ADELAIDE: Mechanical Supplies, Ltd., 79 Grenfell Street.
PERTH: Saunders Stuart Pty., Ltd., James Street.
NEWCASTLE: W. Savage & Co., Ltd., Parry Street.
V>,
JOIN THE ARMY
OF SILENT WALKERS
and enjoy the comfort
of Crepe Rubber-soled
Footuiear.
Great for rough roads
-and easy ——
on tender feet
Wonder
wearing.
For the Man Who Has to
Stand On His Feet All Day,
We Strongly Recommend
This Footwear.
Write for catalogue 11, allowing a full
range of styles.
88113. Black Boot,
good quality, leather-
lined, wide fitting,
crepe soles.
38/6
Post 1/ -
i
8811.3
B9l2o.—Tan Working Boot, same
style as B 8 I 13, in strong elk leather,
wide fitting. Stout crepe soles, 36/6.
Post 1/-
BBUB. Fine Tan
Calf Walking Shoe,
medium fit, lighter
crepe soles,
37/6
Post I/-
v:.-
88118
89115. Riding Boot,
tan or black, with crepe
soles, elastic sides.
35/- Post 1/-
84823. — Rid-
ing Boot, or-
dinary soles,
black or tan,
22/6.
Post 1/ -
ħ
89115
81330. Lady’s
Strap Shoe, nigger
brown, medium or
wide fit, light crepe
sole.
29/6
Post I/-
h
81380
Bl44l.—Lady’s Strap Shoe, in black,
medium fit, crepe soles, 27/6.
Post I/-
Walther 8 Stevenson, Ltd.
395 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.


The “WILD CAT” MONTHLY for August
PUBLISHED SATURDAY NEXT.
CONTAINS REVIEWS OF—
ALLEN TAYLOR & CO.
ASSURANCE & THRIFT ASSOCI-
ATION.
AUST. BANK OF COMMERCE.
ATJST. GLASS MANUFACTURERS
CO.
AUST. METROPOLITAN LIFE
ASSURANCE CO.
AUST. PROVINCIAL ASSURANCE.
AUTOMOBILE & GENERAL
FINANCE.
C.A.S.E.
CASTLE SALT CO-OP. CO.
EDWARDS. DUNLOP & CO.
FAIRYMEAD SUGAR CO.
GOODLET & SMITH, LTD.
h. McKenzie, ltd.
MALLEY’S, LTD.
MARCHANT’S, LTD.
MARK FOY’S, LTD.
MT. MORGAN GOLD MINING CO.
NORTH COAST STEAM NAVIGA-
TION CO.
PACIFIC INSURANCE CO.
QUEENSLAND NATIONAL
BANK.
QUEENSLAND TRUSTEES.
ROBERT HARPER A CO.
SWALLOW & ARIELL, LTD.
SWAN BREWERY CO., LTD.
(PERTH. W.A.).
TYLDESLEY COLLIERY.
WALTER REID & CO.
A Market Guide for Investors. Tin Mining Reports.
NO INVESTOR, BIG OR LITTLE, CAN AFFORD TO MISS THIS ISSUE - - 2'~
methods command the most attention. He breathes
strong Dutch and Flemish influence, though his trees
are thoroughly Australian. Sometimes his Old-World
ioregrounds don’t match the realism of his local
backgrounds, and vice versa; but at his best, especi-
ally when he has an immense, wind-tortured red-
gum standing for its portrait, he is very beautiful
and impressive. A little study of “Lakes at Dawn”
is as clear and ringing as a bell. All four workers
have tickled the purse-strings of the National Gal-
lery.
** * *
At the Adelaide Theatte Royal, vivacious
little Elizabeth Morgan has made quite a
hit iu “Tiptoes,” but Gus Bluett can’t get
folks to take him seriously iu liis emotional
hits. Muriel Starr, always a favorite in
Adelaide, opens at the Prince of Wales on
Saturday night, in “Cornered.” Kate
liowarde has just concluded a good 10-nights’
season with “Gum-tree Gully.” At West’s
Pictures, “For the Term of His Natural
Life” harrows large crowds nightly. At the
Majestic, “The Singing Parson” (Frank Gor-
man), Graham and Wattie, George Storey
and Dulcie Milner are still doing their stunts
with vigor, and the Gayle Wyer Band-box
Revue Company is about to conclude a season
that has run into months. The Repertory
dropped back into drama on Saturday,
Ibsen’s three-act play, “Little Eyolf,” being
produced by Esmond George, who also played
the lead. He can be congratulated upon both
efforts. Thelma Baulderstone gave a con-
vincing view of the temperamental wife, and
Beryl Kook was good iu the less •exacting
part of Asta Allmers, the poet’s half-sister.
A creepy character study was that of the
“Rat Wife,” played by Brenda Kekwick.
Little Joyce Strickland was pleasingly natu-
ral as Little Eyolf. The production was well
mounted. At the York, “The Lady iu
Ermine” presents Corinne Griffiths as the
Italian Countess Mariana, who scores over
the arrogant General Do: >l. The Locking
is beautiful. The Australian actress Enid
Bennett is featured in the humorous “The
Wrong Mr. Wright.”
“Schnorrer”: The latest Shylock intro-
duced to Loudon is Joseph Greenwald, of
the “Abie's Irish Rose” crowd, who was
invited by the Fellowship of Players—one
of the subscription societies that give Sun-
day performances—to play the part. Grcen-
wald was programme- and messenger-boy in
the Thalia, the Yiddish theatre in the Bowery,
when Maurice Moscovitch was playing “The
Merchant of Venice” there, long before
Maurice learned to do it in English. The
mantle of Elijah seems to flop about pretty
freely in the theatrical world.
"Sandtander” : Mary Garden, classed as an
American songstress, though born in Scot:-
land. has astounded the Paris Opera Comique
by her impersonation of Najezda in an
Italian operatic version of Tolstoi’s “Resur-
rection.” Julius Knight and Maud Jeffries ap-
peared in the pretty dramatic distillation of
the morbid theme some 20 years ago in Aus-
tralia ; the opera has been going in Italy
for some years, but this is its first appear-
ance in French. Mary Garden sings only in
French, with an accent that n subtle French-
man described as “over 500 miles west of
New York.” Mary is one of Chicago’s
greatest prides.
Hamfat : Dickens plays are becoming
the fashion in England. At the Lyric The-
atre, Hammersmith, Nigel Playfair has
staged the latest, “When Crummies Played.”
The thing concerns the incidents when
Nicholas Nickleby joined the Crummies
Troupe. _ The murder scene is followed by
three ladies of .the east dancing a skipping-
rope hornpipe; the “Ode to an Expiring
t rog, ’ dragged out of “Pickwick,” is recited
by a heavy actor, and the show ends with
a harlequinade. Hermione Baddeley, sister
to Angela, makes a hit as The Infant Phe-
nomenon. Australia is unlikely to see the
production, which is full of matter for laugh-
ter ; yet there is a large Dickensian public
that would love it. Booksellers say Dickens
is a regular seller.
‘lrving Phelps’: The winsomeness which
was a characteristic of Angela Baddeley dur-
ing her recent season in Australia is probably
responsible for her appearance at the Lon-
don Kingsway in an “Arcadian comedy”
entitled “Marigold.” She plays the part of
an Edinburgh sweet one of 1542, betrothed
to a stereotyped squire, but developing a
heartache for a younger man; and part of
the drama is adroitly interwoven with Queen
Victoria’s first visit to Edinburgh, her
Majesty being off-<“ . of course, but
cleverly suggested as likely to invade a scene
at any moment. Hubert llarben, who imper-
sonated sundry elderly gentlemen with Miss
Baddeley in Australia, is also in the show,
and the production is in the hands of Nor-
man Page, who did “The Blue Bird”
here, whilst also presenting a divertingly
flippant aspect as one of the twins in a rare
showing of Shaw’s “You Never Can Tell.”
Poverty
Point
Caul Boy”: Professional etiquette isn't
what it was. It used to be considered bad
torm for actors (unless they were amateurs
or understudies) to take seats in the audi-
torium during a performance of their own
show, but the other day at Melbourne Tivoli
J saw Lee White and Clay Smith surveying
Elsie Bower and Billy ltutherford from the
circle, and later B. and R. returning the
compliment. Incidentally, Lee and Clay were
a good audience for Sid Beck, hut Bower
and Rutherford failed to see anything funny
in the carp-faced Australian humorist.
“Peter Pan”: “Outward Bound,” which
has reached Melbourne Atlienauim, first came
18 months ago to the Prince of Wales,
Hobart. It was staged by Joseph Cunning-
ham, who is also running the Athenaeum
production, but only two of the Hobart
cast remain in the Melbourne Show —Zillah
Bateman and Frank Bradley.
“Early Turn”: Australia evidently stands
high in the London theatrical and vaudeville
world these days. Hardly surprising when
so many capable performers from this coun-
try have made good in what is still looked
upon as the critical hub of the theatrical
world. At the Victoria Palace the last week
of June was an “Australian week,” when
the variety bill was made up of turns by
natives of the Commoinvealtn. "Mr. Flot-
sam” (otherwise Malcolm McEachern). Jack
Hooker and Dorothy Seaward, Keith Wilbur,
Athol Tier and Peggy Ross were a few of the
stars.
“Emer”: “Simula" 18. 21/7/'27) wants
to know what the movies would be like
without music. In Darwin I
watched them many long nights
lo the accompaniment of nothing
hut the hum of mosquitoes, and
they were Blanky Awful. But,
then, we didn’t really go to see
the show, but simply to silence
horrible suggestions of what else
we might be doing.
“Spokeshave”: The death of Harry
Quealy in Sydney removes another testi-
monial to that fine school for actors, Tom
Pollard’s Opera Co. Quealy was with that
organisation almost as long as anybody, and,
like many others, profited by an unusual
method. Pollard had no use for the star
system; the principal of to-day was back
in the chorus to-morrow, and vice versa. The
result was that, whatever the public thought
about it, the co. became a university of
histrionic graduates, May Beatty, Billy
Percy and Jack Ralston among them. Quealy
himself, after a term with Rickards and
Fullers, went to America, and was successful
there until his health failed.
“Lud”: As “The Blue Mazurka” vanished
from the Daly’s Theatre boards on June 18
“Aussie’s” cable from London (B.
28/7/’27) announcing that it was still draw-
ing packed houses must have been “delayed
by white-ants in the wireless.” As a matter
of fact a new management (Lee Ephraim,
Gillespie and Jack Buchanan) was busy re-
hearsing an American song-and-dance piece
at Daly’s weeks ago.
“Caul Boy”: If the De Forest speaking
film improves in quality it will be a danger-
ous rival of vaudeville theatres and ordinary
motion-picture halls. The variety showmen
will be at a disadvantage because they have
to observe provisions of Theatre Acts which
don’t touch a flat image yapping on a cloth.
The exhibitors of non-speaking films will have
to look to themselves as soon as people get
so accustomed to hearing as well as seeing
the heroine’s skirt swish that they simply
can’t do without it. Watching the new device
the other day, I noticed as soon the the vocal
part was switched off the moving porti >n
seemed to lose what little life it had.
“F.S.”: The weighty Peter Gawthorne.
who is Examiner for Heaven in “Outward
Bound,” gave the gallery an opportunity
before the curtain at Melbourne Athenaeum
on the opening night. He remarked that
he had enjoyed the play so much that he
wished he had been in the audience. “Hear,
hear!” came the retort, and the house roared.
“Stellsby”: The late Harry Hill (not
Hall) appeared with Nellie Stewart in
“Sweet Nell” in 1902; “Curtain Raiser” (B.
21/7/’27) was live years out. To my mind
one of the finest pieces of acting Hill ever
did was the flippant aristocrat in the guillo-
tine scene in “The Only Way” (Tyrone
Power and Edith Crane). It was not over-
done ; men can die with a joke on their
lips. The war proved that.
“Felix”: Union Theatres’ expensive pro-
duction of “The Term of Ills Natural Life”
recalls the version made in Sydney about
20 years ago; it was financed by E. J.
Carroll, McMahon, Gunn (M.L.), Osborne
and Jerden. Rufus Dawes was played by
Martin Keith, S- Vickers by Rosie Ivnight-
Phillips, Mrs. Vickers by Mrs. Barry Lane,
Lord Bellasis by Frank Kenny (latterly with
Allen Doonc), Gabbett by Gus Neville (now
with “White Cargo” on tour), Rev. North by
Roland Conway, Rev. Meekin by Jerden,
Lieut. Frere by Fred Francis, and Veitch by
Charles Morse. The thing cost a mere £5OO
and returned twenty times that amount.
There was afterwards another film named
“Rufus Dawes.”
“Caul Boy” : Warde Morgan gets around
on his lame leg with a fair semblance of
agility as Armand in “Frasquita,” but his
nimbleness can't compare with Sarah Bern-
hardt's art when that tragedienne was suffer-
ing under a worse disability. In her last
stage Sarah took to the screen and plumbed
depths of passion undreamed of by Pola
Negri and her kind. In one film the action
took her all over Paris, in and out of motor-
cars, up and down staircases and over garden
walls. Nobody not in the know T would have
detected that she did it on one leg.
“Wood’s Green” (Lond.) : The new Arts
Theatre Club, which hangs out near Leicester-
square, has added another small theatre to
those in London where plays not acceptable
to commercial managers can be put on pri-
vately. The club’s first production was a
revue; the second was “The Lady of Bel-
mont,” by St. John Ervine; the latest is
“The Bridge,” by Kate O’Brien, whose first
play of cockney suburban life, “Distin-
guished Villa,” aroused interest last summer.
“The Bridge” is set in an English country
house; the theme, that of a woman who
didn’t, is sincerely and poetically treated,
and the playwright was fortunate in having
Fay Compton to portray her heroine.
“M.G.S.’ : I dropped in to see an Aus-
tralian picture, billed as Victoria’s first fea-
ture film. An elderly artist and his nefari-
ous friend dogged a girl across a city inter-
section in a motor-car. Having tracked her
into a lane, they proposed point-blank to this
perfect stranger that she should come along
and pose _ for the artist in the semi-nude.
After taking a day off to battle with her
modesty, she consented, as her father was.
conveniently dying of starvation. The result
was a hideous daub depicting a woman with
twice as much clothing on as a Collins-
street flapper and four times as 'much as a
St. Kilda beach siren. Yet when the villain
later got hold of this picture and left it at
the house of the'hero, who had in the mean-
time espoused the girl, that remarkable young
man registered more shocked horror than a
bench of bishops at a variety show, and pro-
posed to disown his mate. I wonder why
local producers dredge up their stories from
the card indexes of the silliest studios in
Hollywood instead of consulting the short-
story pages of The Bulletin.
“Goldilocks”: A monument in the old
Camperdown (N.S.W.) cemetery is associ-
ated with some tangled musical history. It
is to the memory of Nicholas Charles Bocha,
who, after being employed as harpist by
Napoleon Bonaparte and Louis XVII., bolted
from France to escape a sentence for for-
gery. He popularised the harp in England,
but bolted from there also with Anna Riv-
iera, later known as Anna Bishop, wife of
the man who composed “Homo, Sweet
Home.” That was one of the songs included
in Anna Bishop’s first concert given in
Sydney on December 22, 1855, after the
pair had wandered Europe and America,
giving concerts. Bocha died at the Royal
Hotel (now being demolished) only two
weeks later. The monument in the Camper-
down cemetery was erected by Anna Bishop.
TO A HARDY ANNUAL.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
East Lynne! East Lynne! The spruiker's
din
At picture-shows now crowds them in
To cowboy stunts and mystery,
Or false, salacious history,
The lurid deeds some gunman did
Or pranks of some precocious kid.
They beat you in a common canter.
For tempora, alas, mutantur!
East Lynne! East Lynne! Our precious
tin
We keep. It matters not a pin
That once you gave our aunt heart-throbs,
And drove her into smothered sobs.
We need no outsize handkerchief
To furtively mop up our grief;
Yet we’ll admit, though dry as stone,
Your honest, leaky moral tone.
HEREDITARY, NO DOUBT.
Ah, there s a, lot of Mother Eve about Gladys. She’s always turning over a new leaf.”
East Lynne ! East Lynne ! Your passe sin
Fails now our interest to win.
No midnight-act disrobing scene,
You really are a quaint lias-been !
You’ve no blue innuendoes spread,
Not ev’n a man beneath the bed
To whet our hopes or thrill our spines
(Unless he’s squeaking Willie’s lines).
East Lynne ! East Lynne ! Though worn
and thin,
You have a heart beneath your skin.
The pictures show us ladies free,
Kissed and forgiven in act three.
While .Coward, Lonsdale and that lot
Serve up their drama spiced and hot
And epigrams suggestive fly,
You only make grandmother cry.
East Lynne! East Lynne! You’ve had
your spin.
At Archibald Carlyle we grin.
While heroines,, the modern dated,
Show faces too sophisticated,
O tearful Lady Isobel,
Stay not your shop-worn tale to tel],
A mark for ribald gunnery.
Go. get thee to a nunnery!
S.A.
BILL O'C.


Shipping. _____
THOS. COOK & SON,
.Railway and Steamship Agents.
Tlxe Only Firm in the World with Permanent Offices
in An Countries to give Service and Assistance to
Travellers.
PASSAGES BY ALE LINES.
Lowest Rates; All Classes.
TRAVELLERS’ CHEQUES
In Sterling and Dollars, Safe, Convenient.
BAGGAGE INSURANCE.
ESCORTED TOURS:
JAPAN.—Leaving Melbourne August 3, 89 Days’
Tour; 12 .days in Japan. Hotels, Sightseeing,
Interpreter, Inclusive Return Tare .till. Also
leaving Melbourne August 20, Inclusive Return
Fare £202.
( KYLON AND INDIA. —Leaving Melbourne December
t>, 53 days in Ceylon and India, Escorted by
European Conductor. This tour can be taken en
route to Europe or returning direct to Australia.
EUROPE.- Select, Ideal and Popular Tours, Leaving
January to April, Inclusive Fare £llO to £330.
ALGERIA, TUNISIA, SPAlN.—Special Tours leav-
ing Melbourne 28th February and 13th March.
AMERICA:-—Special Tour eu route to Europe, Leav-
ing Melbourne April 20.
Sailing Lists and Programmes from
THOS. COOK &. SON,
MELBOURNE: SYDNEY:
209 Collins Street. Martin Place.
ADELAIDE: PERTH:
49n Grenfell Stieet. 22 Forrest Street (Opp. G.P.0.).
BRISBANE, via BYRON BAY
Through Tickets to Brisbane issued.
S.S. OItARA —Every Saturday evening; passengers
due Brisbane Monday afternoon.
S.S. WOLI.ONGBAR —Every Tuesday evening;
passengers duo Brisbane Thursday afternoon.
Both vessels fitted with Wireless Receiving Sets.
BRISBANE:
I'A RES.—
Steamer and Motor throughout, Single, £4
Steamer and Motor throughout, Return, £7/5/-
Stearner and First-class Rail, Single, £3/15/-
Steamer and Second-class Rail, Single, £3/8/-
NORTH COAST S. N. CO., LTD.,
Passengers’ Booking Office:
TOURIST BUREAU, CUALLIS HOUSE,
MARTIN PLACE, SYDNEY.
Brisbane Booking Agents: Burns, Philp and Co., Ltd.
Banking, Public Companies, etc.
THE AUSTRALIAN BANK
OF COMMERCE LTD.
Authorised Capital .. .. £5,000,000
Capital Paid Up and Reserves .. .. £2,685,303
Aggregate Assets at 30th June, 1926 ..£16,789,590
Directors: Sir Mark Sheldon, K.8.E., Chairman;
Frank N. Yakwoop ; H. R. Lysagiit, 0.8. E. ;
George J. Sly, LL.D.; Lieut.-Col. T. L. F. Rut-
ledge ; James Kell.
General Manager: C. M. C. Shannon.
Chief Inspector for N.S.W.: W. G. Hull.
HEAD OFFICE, SYDNEY (Corner George and King
Streets).
Branches and Receiving Offices at 158 places in
New South Wales.
BRISBANE (264 Queen Street).
Branches and Receiving Offices at 27 places in
Queensland.
MET,BOURNE (325 Collins Street).
ADELAIDE (35 Bundle Street).
PERTH, W.A. (73 St. George’s Terrace).
LONDON (37 Threadneedle Street, E.C.2).
Manager: A. F. Jenkins.
London Directors :
A. Dodds Fairbairn, Alfred Shepherd, James Tuke.
Agents throughout Australia, Tasmania and New
Zealand, and at all the Chief Cities of the World.
Every description of Banking Business Transacted.
Bank of New Zealand.
SYDNEY BRANCH;
Corner GEOKGE and WYNYARD
STREETS.
Guaranteed Stock
Preference Shares
Long Term Mortgage Shares
Ordinary Shares
Reserve Fund and Undivided Profits
£529,988
1,875,000
374,197
3,750,000
3,609,655
GRANTS DRAFTS
on Australia, New
Zealand, Fiji, Samoa,
Great Britain and Ireland, and other places.
RECEIVES DEPOSITS f or
periods and transacts all other usual Banking business.
The Bank of Adelaide
(Incorporated 1865.)
BRISBANE OFFICE: 303-307 QUEEN STREET.
PERTH OFFICE: ST. GEORGE’S TERRACE.
Also FREMANTLE, W.A,
MELBOURNE OFFICE: 267 COLLINS STREET
SYDNEY OFFICE:
Authorised Capital
Subscribed Capital
Paid Up Capital
Reserve Fund ~
279 GEORGE STREET.
£2,000,000
1,000,000
. . £1,000,000
850,000
£1,850,000
Reserve liability of shareholders.. 1,000,000
£2,850,000
Head Office: ADELAIDE, SOUTH AUSTRALIA.
Also 114 Branches and Agencies in South Australia.
London Office: 11 LEADENHALL STREET, E.C.
Agencies in all Australian States and throughout
the world.
Drafts and Letters of Credit issued on London, America
and elsewhere. Bills from abroad collected and pro-
ceeds remitted. All usual banking business transacted
Keep hopping mi hoping if you wish
to succeed——
x/ '
THINK OF
SCHUTE,
BELL&O tta.
if you havo
Wool & Skins
to Sell.
Personal Attention.
Office*: 44 Bridge Street. Sydney.
If any illustration in The Bulletin take.'
your fancy, write to the Manager, who wil'
quote you price for the original.
Shipping, ere.
CANADA, UNITED STATES,
UNITED KINGDOM
FORTNIGHTLY SAILINGS FROM SYDNEY.
CANADIAN-AUSTRALASIAN ROYAL MAIL LINE.
via Auckland, Suva (Fiji), Honolulu, Victoria and Vancouver.
UNION ROYAL MAIL LINE
via Wellington, Rarotonga, Tahiti and San Francisco.
MAKUK A .... 8,075 tons AUG. 11, for San Francisco.
AORANGI 17,490 AUG. 25. for Vancouver.
TAHITI 7,900 SEP. 8, for San Francisco.
NIAGARA .... 13,415 ~ SEPTEMBER 22, for Vancouver.
Fast and splen-
didly equipped
steamers using
oil fuel.
Spacious Decks,
Unrivalled
Cuisine.
• ■
The Scenic
Routes to the
United Kingdom,
via South Sea
Islands, Canada,
United States.
TICKETS TO THE UNITED KINGDOM INTERCHANGEABLE FOR
RETURN BY OTHER LINES.
HONOLULU EXCURSIONS BY AORANGI AND NIAGARA.
UNION STEAM SHIP CO. { H ° USe ’ 2^ 7 „ Ge ° rge Street * Sydney -
( William Street, Melbourne.
MACDONALD, HAMILTON & CO., Brisbane, Adelaide and Perth.
SOUTH SEA TOURS
Attractive Island Trips, occupying about ] t \ Weeks.
SIX-WEEKLY SAILINGS FROM SYDNEY TO
Now Britain - S.s. “MONTORO” (5000 tons)
W D 1 £1(1111. Sails August 13 and September 24.
mataram (3500 tons)
OOIOIIIOn lMdnaS, Sails August 31 arid October 12.
A Delightful Holiday in Island Wonderlands.
For Particulars apply—
BURNS, PHILP & CO., LTD.,
Sydney, Melbourne, Adelaide and Brisbane.
3*3
ħ
h
ĥ
BURNS, PHILP & CO., LTD.,
Passenger Booking Agents for All Steamship Lines
To
ENGLAND
EUROPE
AMERICA
CANADA
AFRICA
INDIA
JAPAN
CHINA
JAVA, etc.
At regular passage rates. No extra charge.
Attractive Tour to
NOUMEA, JAVA, HONOLULU, COLOMBO, etc.
VISIT JAVA (The wonderland of the East).
Regular monthly sailings of the s.s. “Marella” and
m.s. “Malabar” to Java and Singapore via Queensland
ports, Thursday Island, Darwin, etc. Smooth-water trip,
Deck Cabins, interesting ports of call.
APPLY
BURNS, PHILP & COMPANY, LIMITED,
WORLD TOUR and TRAVEL DEPARTMENT.
7 BRIDGE STREET, SYDNEY.
BANK OF NEW SOUTH WALES.
.Established 1817.
PAID-UP CAPITAL
RESERVE FUND ..
RESERVE LIABILITY
ħ
h
£6,875,000
4,750,000
6,875,000
£18,500,000
Directors:
Thomas Buckland, Esq., President.
The Hon Reginald J. Black, M.L.C.
Charles Binnie, Esq.
.Tames Burns, Esq.
Robert 1.. Faithful], Esq., M.D.
Robert W. Gillespie, Esq.
Franc B. S. Falkiner, Esq.
Auditors: W. H. Palmer, Esq.; S. E. Laidley, Esq. General Manager: OSCAR LINES.
Head Office—George Street, Sydney. London Office—29 Threadneedle Street, E.C. 2
477 Branches and Agencies in the Australian States, Federal Territory, New Zealand Fiji, Papua,
Mandated Territory of New Guinea and London. Agents and Correspondents throughout the world
i aide remittances made to, and drafts drawn on Foreign places DIRECT. Foreign Bills
negotiated and collected. Letters of Credit Issued, negotiable throughout the world.
The Commercial Banking Company
of Sydney Limited
ESTABLISHED 1834.
CAPITAL PAID UP £4,671,712 10 0
RESERVE FUND 3,850,000 0 0
RESERVE CAPITAL- ----- 4,723,187 10 0
Directors:
£13,244,900 0 0
General Manager: J. It. DRYHURST.
HEAD OFFICE: Sydney, 343 George Street.
Loudon Offices—lB Birchin Lane, Lombard St., E.C.3, and 69 King William St.. E.O.
Branches throughout Queensland, New South Wales and Victoria and Branch at Adelaide South
Australia. Agencies throughout Australia and New Zealand, and all other parts of the World.
All Classes of General Banking and Exchange Business Transacted.
SAFE DEPOSIT VAULTS.—lnspection invited. Particulars of
Safe Rentals on application.
Shipping, etc.
Inter-State Steamship
Sailings.
(Passenger Sailings—Circumstances permitting.)
FOR MELBOURNE, ADELAIDE ami FREMANTLE
(Transhipping at Melbourne for Geelong and other
Victorian ports; at Adelaide for S.A. Gulf ports;
and at Fremantle for Perth, Bunbury, Geraldton
and North-West Ports).
*Brisbnne. Mackay (no cargo for Maekay), Townsville
and Cairns.
Muddarf ParkerljM'
Magnificent
Fast Passenger
Steamships
STEAMERS TO NEW ZEALAND—ReguIar sailings
from Sydney to New Zealand ports and vice versa.
Particulars to be obtained on application.
STEAMERS TO TASMANIA —From Sydney to Hobart
and vice versa as per daily papers. Between Mel-
bourne and Launceston as per daily papers.
For full particulars apply HUDDART PARKER LIMITED
Collins Street, Melbourne; Bridge Street, Sydney.
Interstate Telegraphic addn
“NALDHAM.”
Cable address
“NALDHAM’
Macdonald, Hamilton 8 Co.
247 George Street, Sydney.
Shipping Agents, Merchants, Colliery
Proprietors, Tug and Lighter Owners.
MANAGING AGENTS FOR
Australasian United Steam Navigation Co., Ltd.
Fitzroy Estates, Etd.
Blackheath Collieries, I.td., and Caledonian
Collieries, Etd.
Eastern & Australian Steamship Co., Etd.
AGENTS FOR
British-India S. N. Co., Ltd. P. & 0. S. N. Co.
Queensland Line of Steamers. Scottish Shire Line
(Turnbull, Martin & Co.). New Zealand Shipping Co.,
Ltd. Canadian-Australasian Royal Mail Line, San
Francisco Service (Union S. S, Co.), Union S. S. Co.
of New Zealand, Ltd. Hain. Line. Huddart Parker,
Ltd. London Assurance Corporation (Marine). Mel-
bourne Agents for Messageries Maritimes Co. Queens-
land Agents for Sea Insurance Co., Ltd.
BRANCHES at Perth, Fremantle, Adelaide, Port
Adelaide, Melbourne, Suva (Fiji), Brisbane, Mary-
borough, Bundaberg and Bowen.
Australian Mutual
Established
1819.
87 H piltSt , ' l |ydn.y
Pf OVI dfi 111 SoCI21 Y
The Largest and Most Successful
Mutual Life Otfice in the British Empire,
Distributes a Cash Bonus Every Year.
Amount Distributed for single year 1926 £2,887,200
Yielding Reversionary Additions to
Policies of over £4,893,000
Accumulated Funds .. .. .. £63,600,000
Annual Income .. .. .. .. £9,600,000
The Society transacts Every Class of Ordinary
and Industrial Assurance Business.
H. W. APPERLY, F.S.S., General Manager.
JENOLAN
CAVES
IN WINTER
Three
Days :
RAIL AND
MOTOR
£4/7/-
MOTOR ALL
THE WAY
£5/5/-
Invigorating Air
Glorious Scenery
Wonderful Caverns
Dancing Every
Evening
Billiards
Card-room Lounge
Cosy Firesides
Tour Programme and Booking at
N.S.W. Government
TOURIST BUREAU
Challis House, 8 Martin Place,
Sydney.


Why pay train fares ?
A
%
m
k
MRS
T/i
S
=4=
' rvn
rm
-cry.' r^—
li HU LI Li U
Why pay train, tram or bus fares, and be tied to time-tables, when by
owning a motor cycle you have a healthy, speedy, inexpensive means of
travelling always at your service ?
But for really enjoyable motor cycling a high-class machine is essential.
See that your mount is a B.S.A.—world-famous for its sturdy construction,
low running costs, and value. You can buy a B.S.A. Motor Bicycle for
as small a sum as £57 10s. cash or by easy payment terms.
Remember, too, B.S.A. reliability! You don’t need to be a mechanic to
ride a B.S.A. The modern engineering methods employed in the manu-
facture of B.S.A. Motor Bicycles, and the high quality of the materials
used, ensure absolute reliability under all conditions. An outstanding
proof of B.S.A. reliability was the recent 100 ascents of Blacks’ Spur on
a standard B.S.A. 4.93-h.p. combination under official V.M.C.U. observation,
the machine being found mechanically perfect at the finish.
There are 14 different B.S.A. Motor Bicycles, from 2.49-h.p. to 9.86-h.p.,
including sports models, lightweight solo machines, touring combinations, or
tradesmen’s delivery outfits. Visit your nearest B.S.A. agent and inspect
his stock and
Lead the way on a B*SA
Prices From £57/10/-
Send for catalogue and particulars of Easy Payment Terms
AUSTRALIAN DISTRIBUTING AGENTS:
N.S.W. \BENNETT & WOOD, LTD.,
Q’LANDj 284 Pitt Street, Sydney .
VICTORIA - F/iVL/l Y BROS . MOTOR CYCLES
PTY., LTD.,
322 Elizabeth Street, Melbourne.
SOUTH AUS.-«/. w. TA YLOR & CO., LTD.,
121 Grenfell Street, Adelaide.
WEST AUS. /viortlock bros., ltd.,
890 Hay Street, Perth.
TASMANIA-s/zw king pty., ltd.,
63 Brisbane Street, Launceston.
B.S.A. Sub-Agents Throughout Australia.
D. Y. RENNIE ( Factory Representative), 49 ELIZABETH STREET, MELBOURNE.


h
Girls!
Imagine your
Complexion Clear,
Rosy and Velvety!
Are you sometimes discouraged and feel
that your skin is unattractive instead of
being clear, fresh and smooth ? If so,
look to the soap you are using.
Many soaps are more injurious to the
skin than actual neglect, for they contain
harmful alkali, which tends to dry up
the skin and destroy its delicate texture.
Rexona Skin and Facial Soap is a speci-
ally prepared skin soap, entirely free from
harmful alkali. It will do more to im-
prove your skin than you ever thought a
soap could do, for it is medicated on the
same principle as the famous Rexona
Ointment. Thus it is able to exert the
hygienic effects of Rexona upon the skin
with every cleansing operation.
Simply use Rexona Soap once or
twice a. day, and see if it does not
relieve the clogged pores, reduce the
tendency to blotches, redness and
oiliness and leave the complexion
clear, rosy and velvety.
Miss Elsie Prince, a beautiful Rexona
Girl, writes; “I want to be happy and l
leant to make you happy too, so 1 recom-
mend you to use Rexona Soap for the
skin and hair, same as I do.”
REXONA
SOAP.
m
c?or Wealth
1
Hillier’s
Chocolates
Packed in the famous Red Boxes and
mailed to you the day they are made.
Prices: 3/-, 5/6, 6/-,
10/-, 32/6, 20/- & 30/-
Send for Catalogue, illustrated
with Reproductions of our
Confectionery, iu color.
Post free to any address
in Australia.
dn£6tl£MU\
m
m
5t5
ms.
\
mm
. y-
mm
mmmm
' mm
H .
o
m
162-166 PITT STREET
BRANCHES:
CR. GEORGE 6- KING STREETS;
CAS 1 LERF.AGH S TREET,
NEXT THEATRE ROYAL ,
.S’ YDNE Y.
IVhat a lovely
The Magic Draught.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
fP you wake ami rise at the break of day,
Your bed and blankets scorning,
You’ll find there’s something to charm
your eyes
When you go out in the morning.
Though summer it be or autumn time,
Though it be spring or winter,
You’ll see the Dawn in her morning-gown
With red or gold to tint her.
And ever and ever as you walk on,
A breeze your forehead kissing,
You’ll garner a joy that sluggish folk
Who slumber at home are missing.
Though down to the sea you take your way
Or stroll tall gum-trees under,
Your thirsting soul will drink of a w ine
Poured out for you by Wonder.
For Wonder waits with a magic draught
For those who, musing, wander
By waves that roll on a golden coast,
Or ’neath tall trees that ponder.
And whoso swallows that magic draught
Shall know strange things thereafter,
And quit this world of sorrow and age
For one of youth and laughter.
Akin he’ll be to the morning birds
Through shade and sunshine winging;
And he shall know what the winds and waves
By night and noon are singing.
Hi' shall not crave for the dross of earth,
Nor, wistful, seek to borrow
\ coin of joy from the world to-day—
Paid back with pain to-morrow.
Yea. lie who drinks of that potent wine,
That magic draught down tosses,
Oh great, oh great shall his riches be,
And slight and slight his losses!
Ml those who would walk with Wonder then
Must wake when birds are Avaking,
And sally forth at the dewy hour
When golden day is breaking.
N.S.W.
RODERIC QUINN.
Nature Study and a Bad Egg.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
NATIVE cats had raided the fowl-roosts
and killed some of Professor Phegan’s
best hens. At the same time farmer
Cobb, whose barn we used for school, com-
plained that bandicoots were rooting up his
corn and goannas were stealing his eggs. So
Phegan decided to devote the afternoon to
Nature Study.
There was a lot to be learnt from the won-
derful works of Nature, Phegan said; and
• very boy and girl should know something
about the habits and peculiarities of birds
and animals and other wild creatures. The
knowledge was particularly valuable to
people who lived in the bush. In dry regions
the birds and animals guided the thirsty
traveller to water. Even the insects had
something to teach us. It was the wasp that
showed man how to make paper from wood
pulp; and the breast of a fowl was the first
model of a ship’s keel. The bush was a
great school, where Nature was always
teaching something, provided you had tiie
right faculty of observation and a great fund
of patience.
The special subjects that afternoon were
native cats, bandicoots and goannas; and the
pupils were let loose in the grass paddock
In hind the barn to collect specimens.
“And while you’re searching.” said
Phegan. “let me see who can find the most
"ggs. Many of the hens are laying away in
the grass, and that’s where the goannas do
most harm.”
There was nothing we liked better than
field study. We were practically free hunters
and enjoyed ourselves, when Phegan couldn’t
see us, climbing after possums and searching
for birds’ nests, besides probing hollow logs
for wild cats. But we did not rob the nests.
That sort of vandalism was severely punished
—unless the nests were those of white cocka-
toos or brush pheasants. Phegan was a lover
of birds that did not do him any harm.
The paddock, hemmed on two sides by the
curving river, with the plantation in the
bend, and a strip of jungle across the outer
points, was about 100 acres in area. We
roamed all over it, boys and girls together.
The girls did not like native cats. They
were more interested in butterflies and wild
flowers, for which they were reproved for
wasting time.
“Recollect that you are at school, if you
are running about the paddock ; and to-day’s
lesson is noxious animals,” said Phegan, who
Avas sauntering about directing operations
and now and again discoursing on the habits
of the bandicoot family.
The girls were moving off in a chastened
spirit when a noxious animal of an unex-
pected kind appeared in front of Phegan. It
was Cobb's brindle cow. an aggressive and
unsociable beast that kept mostly by herself.
She rose from behind a small clump of box-
tree suckers and observed the intrusion in
her domain with obvious disapproval. The
children that had to cross the paddock to and
from school were always warned to look out
for Brindle. rhegan had forgotten her. lie
Avas lighting his pipe in a complacent mood,
and merely glanced aside as the girls ran
helter-skelter for the scrub. lie thought they
had remembered a likely place to find a cat.
After pressing the glowing tobacco down
Avith his matchbox and belching smoke like
a miniature engine, he discovered Brindle in
bis path and abruptly stopped. She Avas
walking deliberately towards him, her head
held Inch, and her eyes rolling. Phegan’s
eyes rolled, too. He yelled to Punty Bing-
ham to attack her in the rear: but that
youth ay us too busy getting up a tree.
Phegan was in the open. The only haven
near him was a gum stump, about three feet
high and five feet in diameter, lie leaped on
to it as Brindle rushed at him, and dancing on
the opposite edge he waved his hat and
“shoo’d” at her with a frenzied burst of
energy. But the pantomimics only aggra-
vated Brindle. She made frequent rushes,
shaking her head and snorting across the
stump. The hot blasts she blew against
Phegan’s shins sent thrills all through him.
In her determined efforts to get at him she
rushed half round the stump, with her neck
sweeping the edge, and in his hurried effort
to get to the opposite side Phegan fell off.
The cow wheeled so sharply that he had to
scramble partly round on his hands and
knees before getting erect again. In doing
so he disturbed a nest of bulldog ants that
was built around a tussock. Then the
stingers swarmed after him on one side,
whilst Brindle menaced him on the other. In
desperation he hopped on to the stump again
and called to Punty to get down and throw
sticks at the beast. Punty looked around,
and decided that the tree was the safety
zone.
“Throw your boots at her,” he suggested.
“Smart boy!” sneered Phegan, nearly
breathless with his exertions. “If I had hold
of you I'd tan some smartness into your hide,
Where’s Peter Possum? Coo-ee!”
Peter, the black boy, was on his hands
and knees behind another tree, contorting
hysterically and shedding copious glad tears.
Billy Flynn, his nearest companion, was
sitting on the plantation fence, but on hear-
ing the teacher’s “coo-ee,” he dropped off and
adopted a neutral attitude in the grass. The
other boys were hunting along the river
bank, unaware that Phegan was intensely
engrossed in the study of a brindle cow.
The sweat was running into Phegan’s
eyes. The bull-ants were running on to the
stump, and between crushing them with his
boots and dodging Brindle lie was the busi-
est nature-student in the paddock that after-
noon.
The girls were perched on a low limb at
the edge of the jungle. They were enjoy-
ing the spectacle, and swinging gently up
and down, with their hats and bonnets in
their hands. All except Mary Irvin, who
looked serious, and disapproved of the other
girls laughing at the teacher.
“Why doesn’t he call out for Mr. Cobb?’
she asked them.
“If dad saw that he’d fall down laughing,’
Sarah Cobb answered her.
At last Phegan got a brain wave. Putting
his fingers in his mouth lie whistled loudly
for the dog. In a moment Bluclier came
bounding to the rescue. lie attacked
Brindle with a vim that soon sent her bel-
lowing after the other cows; and Phegan
stepped down with a sigh of relief. Punty
had slipped down before him. Peter and
Billy were specimen-hunting on their hands
and knees in the longest grass. When
Phegan glared around the paddock there was
not a boy or a girl to be seen.
“Wonderful brats for looking after them-
selves !” he muttered testily.
Nobody appeared until he had got his pipe
alight again. Then he was considered calm
enough to resume the business of the after-
noon.
Shortly afterwards Peter Possum ran up
with the first specimen, and little Jimmy
Irvin ran after him with his hat in his
hand.
“I saw it first,” Jimmy panted. “I
Hushed it from the grass.”
“What’s the good of seeing it first if you
can’t catch it?” demanded Phegan. “You
want, to practise shifting yourself with more
celerity, Jimmy.”
“I knocked it over with a waddy,” said
Peter proudly.
“That’s the way,” commended Phegan. “If
you were as good with a pen as you are with
a waddy or a boomerang, you’d be a fine
scholar.”
Half the youngsters gathered round as
Phegan examined the specimen, which was
a common bandicoot.
“Do you notice the emaciated appearance
of the creature?” he said.
“AH these bandicoots have that poverty
100k —that’s why people use the simile, ‘Poor
as a bandicoot.’ Have any of you ever
eaten the beast?”
“I have,” I said, “and it’s good. When
it's stuffed and roasted it's like suckin’ pig.”
“So I’ve heard,” said Phegan. “I’ll take
it home and try it.”
The group was dispersing again when
Punty Bingham found the first hen’s nest.
There were only three eggs, and they were
addled. After shaking one against his ear,
he stood up cautiously and threw it at Peter
Possum, who was standing on a small log.
Peter stepped down in time to miss it, and
Phegan turned round behind him in time to
meet it. The egg broke on the bridge of his
nose with a noise like an explosive.
For a moment Phegan stood and gasped,
with his neck stretched forward, while egg
dripped off him and filled the air with an
obnoxious odor. Phegan appeared to be
more affected by the smell than by the blow.
Gropingly he plucked some grass and wiped
his face and eyes. Then lie spat viciously,
and glared at Peter.
“Who did that?” he cried in an unneces-
sarily loud voice.
“I didn’t see him,” Peter answered.
“Find him, then!” roared Phegan: and
Peter went off in the wrong direction to
avoid getting into trouble with his mates.
The girls had retreated to a safe distance,
and were bending convulsively over tussocks,
pretending to be absorbed in looking for
nests. Punty had ducked down in a fright,
and was crawling away through the grass
when Phegan blew his whistle.
Peter promptly returned, and said he
thought a crow had dropped the egg. Phegan
merely scowled. From other parts of the
paddock the Nature students raced up and
fell into line. Two had native cats, one
had a goanna and three had eggs. The col-
lection slightly softened the angry look on
Phegan’s face, but it did not modify the
awful smell that wa.s about him, leaving a
rankling sense of humiliation.
Billy Flynn and Curly Spencer had been
close to Punty, and they had ducked down at
the same time as the culprit, partly from a
(Continued on next page.)


Completely
Encased
JL
Dustproof
Leakproof
Perfect
Lubrication
The Best
Wind wheal
II
Double
if.
v&a-
-•'srt;
/«>,<
m
B
>#
SSSttS®
55^^;.-.
wt'^'4i«..- : -».i’y
r: :,^:C
Billabong.
' " CilHilii liLUi® 1 *
w
*-v. <%'. Jft 1 Jf
nzmmL
W$M
• 2*J
m-
x-?Ssreh /’■». J^l
ja«SOTK'*T' ; tf '• ♦ ..JJ 2® #:’*3
IP®
StSS
, \
.*k
ffts*
”“* J# T Na 2176
. > *"s'&,« '‘V.M'^j w^t« t »*egjg
Wf#&
Windmills
Pumps
Troug'hs
Those needing Windmills, Pumps or Troughing cannot do
better than investigate the merits of the Billabong Brand—*
the Products of our Melbourne and Sydney Factories. The
High Quality Materials used and skilled Engineers employed
have made Billabong Goods exceedingly Popular throughout
the Commonwealth,
Made in Australia
Billabong Pumping Plants have this advantage over imported
lines-—-replacements are available at short notice, thus but
little inconvenience is caused through a breakdown; and our
many years’ experience in the manufacture of these goods has
helped us to produce Mills, Pumps, etc., best suited for the
conditions of this country.
The Encased Billabong
has already been acclaimed the one practical Encased-gear
Windmill—-the head being completely enclosed in a strong
Cast-iron Casement which, also, forms the oil well for the
gears, etc. No rain nor dust can enter this, nor can the oil
escape—the perfect lubrication of the Billabong makes it a
most easy running Mill.
The Inset in Illustration
Gives you some idea of the great strength embodied in this
Double-geared Windmill. It is built for heavy work and yet,
with its Ball-bearing Bed-plate, the Billabong is most sensitive
to light breezes. And the most constant worker of the
Windmill Family.
Prompt attention to all inquiries and Full Particulars and Prices
(F. 0.8. Melbourne) Post Free on Request.
JOHN DANKS &SON PTY.LTtt
WP
391-403 BOURKE ST. MELBOURNE
324-330 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
fear that they might be suspected, and partly
because they didn't want to know anything
about the offence when questions were asked.
The three crawled away to a hollow, then
appeared in a great hurry from three
different points. Phegan eyed them sternly as
they took their places in the line.
"Which of you three boys threw the bad
egg?” lie asked them, liis linger aiming
slowly across from one to the other. No-
body spoke.
“One of you threw it, and the one who did
is known to the other two,” said Phegan.
"Now then, out with it quickly, or I’ll tan
the lot of you.”
Curly gave Punty a dig with his elbow
as a hint that it was liis duty to his mates
to own up. Instantly there was a double
explosion that astonished him and startled
the whole line. It was followed by a vile
smell that caused everybody to grip their
noses and edge away from Punty. That
miserable youth had indiscreetly put the other
two addled eggs in his pocket, with an idea
of having some fun with them on the way
home.
“Ah,” said Phegan. “there’s the villain !
Punty Bingham, that’s been a bad example
since he came to the school.” He paused,
while everyone looked at the abashed Punty.
"You’re the bag egg, Punty Bingham,” Phe-
gan went on. “Here’s other boys, and girls,
too, can find cats and goanuas and bandi-
coots and good eggs; and you can only find
an abomination, and with that you have the
audacity to assault your teacher, and come
among respectable children in a condition
that’s disgusting. What do you mean by
it?”
“Please, sir, I didn’t see you,” pleaded
Punty.
"Come out here, you rascal, and you’ll
feel me,” said Phegan.
He broke a switch from a bunch of gum
seedlings, picked the leaves off it, and made
it whistle through the air a couple of times
to see if it would break. Then lie gave
Punty six cuts on the hands with it*
“Now go and hang your dirty coat on the
fence,” lie ordered. “You stink.”
■Turning to Billy Flynn and Curly Spen-
cer, lie glared at them for some seconds as
if meditating what to do with them.
“1 don’t believe in using the cane any
more than is necessary,” he said at last. “So
to-morrow at playtime, you grind the wood-
axe, Billy Flynn; and you stop in, Curly
Spencer, and turn the grindstone for him.”
He slewed sharply as a giggle reached his
'ear. “Come out, Henry Cobb!” he called,
and Henry stepped sheepishly from the
ranks.
“What were you laughing at?” asked Phe-
gan.
“At the stink, sir,” said Henry.
“Oh,” said Phegan. “Laughing at a
stink? Well, see here, Henry, I noticed a
foul odor about the school this morning, the
result of you boys neglecting your work on
Saturdays. So go you now and clean out
the pigsty. Maybe you’ll find plenty to laugh
at there.”
Then we were marched back to school
to hear a lceturette on wild cats and goanuas.
E. S. SORENSON.
The Man Who Wasn’t Romantic.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
TO Phil I had remarked that our waitress
was a regular little Mary Pickford.
Phil jestingly told her about it when
she came to see if we wanted anything more.
Am! our bill, which should have been 3s.
<>d'., was 2s. lid. Obviously I had made a hit.
I inched her up again at a far-removed
lunch-shop. She smiled in remembrance;
and 1, too, smiled on recalling the 2s. !)d.
The other day 1 saw her in this lunch-
shop just after her marriage. Six months
previously she had told me she was leaving;
but she didn't leave then. Now, however,
she had left; but she had come back to have
a. wedding breakfast—it was a cheap lunch,
really—at the spot where her girl associates
could see the triumph of her matrimonial
bow and spear. I cannot reproach her for
that; the glory of triumph is enjoyed by
most of us—surely it is pardonable.
The man with the thick hands, who loved
her. told me all about it. His face is rather
piggish—coarse like his thick hands. He is
not: at all the _ sort of person one would
expect a Mary Pickford to love, even although
Mary's original name was Smith and she
came from a factory, as the film-factory’s
world’s-sweetheart did.
The thick-handed man had faced me oAer
pie and tea pretty often, and he had told
m<> how he had once sold papers in the streets
of Sydney. Then he had become, a buggy
boy, driving for what he now called “Our
People.” For a certain good nature, and
the fact that he did once sell papers, I like
the thick-handed man in spite of his idea
that ‘Our People”—some second-rate but
prosperous firm—arc the centre of the uni-
verse.
"That little girl deserves happiness,” he
said to me, gulping a mouthful of roll. “As
good as gold she is—and I know it. She
ga\e me a pretty good lesson; but a man
who cant laugh at a joke against himself
don t deserve to live.
1 hadn t seen her here long before I made
up my mind she was the best thing in the
s op, but she was a long time before slic'd
go for a spin with me. Didn’t think I had
the car, probably. Finally she did come :
but it was the properest joyride you ever
saw. When I took her to a cabaret an’
i? ve , iei l a s h c simply wouldn’t
o , o '. a f the hard stuff; but she waded into a
whole lot of ice-cream and seemed to get as
joious on if and the dancing and so on, as
if she Avas full o’ cocktails. Still it wasn’t
i n lo ™ S T- rit y° u Sot with a
?" ! "ho takes those things. When I tried
to press that on her she got cold and quiet;
and it tamed me down so that I was as
limith less as a curate.
“Still 1 hoped, if .1 Avas a good bov. there’d
T a e ia ” ce : and I reckoned it had come
r In.n. Sunday, she came out for a drive.
V' S[>t a real good hamperful; and when
Sic sipped the champagne I was glad I’d
chosen a quiet spot for our camp.
She was so siveet to me that T thought
end h?/ ° n i y PUttl, i 8 V" tho usual pretence:
ami beloie 1 guessed what Avas happening she
timed up tlie car, hopped in, and was
oft. It astounded me, but I cliasod after
her: and she pulled up.
“ 'lf you come any nearer, I’ll go,’ she
said: and, seeing her determined look. I
stopped. 'lt’s this way,’ she said, 'I went
out with a man I trusted once, and I had to
walk home. After that I made up my
mind to learn to drive. Now I’m going to
drive back to the nearest place where I Can
get a tram; and then I’ll get someone at a
garage to take your car back to you. You'll
have to pay the man ; but that’s your fault’
I tried to get her to let me drive liet back,
promising to behave; but she wouldn't trust
me. So, cursing her—and myself—l set
on the tramp after the Car •; -And, sure enough,
it presently came back and picked me up.
When I got to the tram terminus I found
her waiting. She said she wanted to make
sure I had got the car back.
“I drove her home; Very silent all the
way she was; but as she got out I said: ‘lt
beats me; you wouldn’t take my promise to
behave, and let me drive you back from the
picnic place, but you haven’t minded me
bringing you home.’
’Oh, I knew you’d be all right once we
got back where there were trams,’ she said,
'and 1 was short of tram-fares.’
"That shocked me, and made me admire
her too —poor little kid, putting up the
bluff on me when she hadn't a tram-fare in
her pocket! Later on I learnt all about it,
when I’d practically kissed the doormat in
this shop apologising to her for that picnic
business. She wouldn’t go out with WC
again, at least not for a long time > alid
when at last she did she said she would
only go if I took one of her little si Stefs
and brothers with her. By this time 1 Whs
glad to take her for it tide just to nave the
poor kid with Bio; and that's the way I go)
to know the family-. invalid father, only
getting a pension ; mother doing a bit of
needlework; elder children putting in all
they could to keep flu; house and the younger
children going—that explained the shortage
of tram-fares.
"Well. I tell you, it gave me as good fun
as I’ve known taking out things to that house
—a couple of chickens, and flowers, and
lollies for the children and a cloak or some-
thing for mother. You don’t realise wliat’s
the pleasure of giving things till you meet
people who really want them. But I don’t
suppose I’d have wanted to marry Mary
if I hadn’t met the feller who was going to
do it.
“I’d got in the way of just enjoying my-
self taking Mary out, without trying any
tricks with her, when I found out she had
a boy. Later I met him, and found he was
a young clerk in the office of Our People;
weedy young fellow and God knows what
Mary saw in him! But when I saw the
way she looked and turned to meet him it
stirred something in me.
“Y’see,” he continued, in a manner that
was half-apologetic, “I’m a ruthless sort of
chap; ,y’ got to be ruthless in this world
if you’re to get what you want. It suddenly
came to me that it was time I got married,
and that Mary was just the girl to do the
liousekeepiu’; but I wouldn’t have done what
I did to Ilarkins if it hadn’t been for what
I thought of Mary. I wanted her t;o be
happy, and her people to be happy—which
would mean her being happy; an’ I could
see her marry in’ Harkins and missing it all,
just through silly foolishness. I’m not a
romantic man myself, but it made me feel
crook to picture her wakin’ out of her
dream to find herself up against just the
same old, tawdy poverty, with a chap not
likely to do much getting on—Harkins is
a nice enough feller, but not pushing
enough to get anywhere. As far as me and
him was concerned, I’d have given him a
fair go; but it was Mary I was tliinkin’ of.
"Next day I told young Harkins that Our
People wanted him to go to the Melbourne
office, on a rise. He seemed reluctant, so
l told him he’d better think it oVer—hard ;
and I came over hero, got Mary to let me
drive her home, and told her I wanted to
marry tier.
“She turned me down, in spite of my
telling her all that I could do for her folks;
and next day Harkins, who said ho didn’t
want to go to Melbourne, got the sack. I
wasn’t goin’ to let Mary make a fool of
herself, if I could help it.
"After that, when I came in here Mary
wouldn’t even wait ou me—used to get some
other girl to run my order. I’d wait for
her outside sometimes, but she avoided me.
One, day I saw Harkins come in, looking
pinched, and hesitating, and I saw Mary go
up to him quickly, with her face aglow,' and
take him to a seat. Somehow I got an
understanding that she had made him pro-
mise to come in, and she was going to pav
for his feed.
“I went over and sat opposite him. and
when Mary came up I said: ‘Give me the
ticket, please : Harkins is lunching with me,’
and then I said to him, quickly, so that she
could hear: ‘Better look in at th e office
to-morrow. There’s something for you, I
chink.’
"I said it quickly; I wanted Mary to hear
it. to put me in good with her. My idea
ut the time was that now Harkins would be
-lad to take what was going and go off to
Melbourne, leaving the field free; so I was
to score both ways. But when I got back
to the office, somehow things seemed changed.
I had in my mind the look of Mary for
that weedy bloke.
“ ‘Look,’ I says to Perkins—he is Our
People’s head, but he leaves most things to
me; ’[ made a mistake in Harkins; lie’s a
smart young chap. There’s that junior
traveller’s job; he’d be just the man for it.’
! vc asked him to come in to-morrow; per-
haps you’d better offer it to him —it’d come
hotter from you than me. There may be a
bit of soreness in him still.’ ”
At this point of the storv the wedding
party moved out, with “Mary Pickford’’
laughing gaily as she waved' to all the
waitresses, who stopped work to wave back
She was ou the arm of a long, thin young
fellow. “That’s Harkins,” said the thick-
handed man, as he reached for the docket
the girl had put under his plate. “Thinks
I’m his enemy; they didn’t ask me to have
a look-in at their wedding. But I don’t
mind so long as the little girl’s happy. I’ve
made up my mind it’s time I got married :
and, though T’d have liked it to he her. I’ll I
find a girl to suit, no doubt. There’s no- I
tiling romantic about me.”
HAMER.


m
M
WESTING HOUSE
Morse Silent Rocker-Joint
CHAIN DRIVES
Ensure minimum wear—
Maximum life and highest
efficiency.
Chains in stock—wheels manu-
factured to suit requirements.
Write for particulars
and Booklet BM 414.
THE WESTINCHOUSE BRAKE CO.
OF AUSTRALASIA LTD.,
Queensland Agents—HOLMES « CHURCH, Brisbane.
>'.Z. Office—93-107 Featlierston Street, Wellington.
Victorian Office—99 Queen Street, Melbourne.
South Australian Agents: Messrs. ELDER, SMITH & CO., LTD., Adelaide, S.A.
CONCORD WEST, N. S. WALES.
CORKBOARD
We are Sole Agents for High-grade Com-
pressed Corkboard, “Non-Plus-Uitra” and
“Record” Brands, the finest insulation for Cold
Storage Rooms.
Supplied in standard sizes, 3ft. x Ift., thick-
nesses of I in., 2in. and 3in., and easily fixed.
Large Stocks always available*
J. WILDRIDGE S SINCLAIR, LTD.,
97 PITT STREET, SYDNEY,
And at Melbourne, Brisbane, Perth and Auckland (N.Z.).
i...
m
%
&
m
c Uhese Ronnie Cherubs Owe their Precious
Lives to the Building-up Power of
fEEBLE and fretful, unable to as>
similate nourishment from their
natural food, HYPOL was ordered.
Almost the first few doses put the
joy of living into their little beings
by promoting fresh impulse, vigour,
and bodily health. Now it’s romp
all day, and sweet, refreshing sleep
at night. Mother says the HYPOL
treatment was “Just Wonderful.”
KYPOL is a Cod Liver Oil Esoul-
sion of peculiar distinctiveness
—full of valuable elements for
health, and famed for its richness,
freshness, and restorative power.
Only those who have taken HYPOL
know how good it is—how it streng-
thens and sustains. For severe
Colds,Bronchitis,Unhealthy Lungs,
HYPOL is without equal.
You protect yourself by asking for the Original and Genuine
An Sigh- dais Cfcemfct* *tuck it. Made by FELTON, GRIMWADE & CO. PROP. LTD., Melbourne.
'Ar
2ey c *»
a>
s:
Guaranteed x Kepr
in order for two years free^
CRAIG s AITKEN.6S4 GEORGE ST.SYONEE
1000 SATISFYING SHAVES
IgMSBB— -
■
IN ONE
RAZOR
A Pill is the best
form of medicine
Handy to use - easy to take
If taken regularly
The best form of medicine
Provided it’s a good pill
BEECHAM’S PILES are
The tried and trusted remedy
Of countless thousands
Contain finest ingredients
Requisite for the
Toning and strengthening of
Stomach, liver and bowels
Beecltam’s Pills
Remove poisons from system
Prevent biliousness
Indigestion, sick headache
And evils which follow
Constipation.
(t PWU I the tAmf
4
2b
a>
i.
Marine
Engines
For all boats of the medium duty
type, Kermath Marine Engines of 3
to 100 horsepower have proved
themselves best by actual, hard, un-
failing service.
All parts Standard and Interchange-
able. American Bosch Magnetos—*
impulse coupling.
3 to 100 H.P.,
1 to 6 cylinders,
4-cycle Engines.
HALL BROS., LTD.,
Careening Cove (foot of Willoughby
Wilson's Point, North Sydney, N.
KERMATH MANUFACTURING CO.
Detroit, Michigan, U. S. A.
Cable Addrc.s. KERMATH
If any illustration in THE BULLETIN” takes your fancy, write
to the MANAGER, who will quote you price for the original.
HARBOR TOURIST TRIPS
Weather and other circumstances' permitting.
From Fort Macquarie at 10.15 a.ni. and 2.15 p.in.
EVERY TUESDAY AND EVERY THURSDAY.
lares: All-day, 2/C; Half-day. 1/6, Children, 1/- and 6d
I.iineheon by reservation at Clifton Cardens Hotel. Afternoon Tea on Board
SPECIAL TRIP EVERY SUNDAY at a P . m . iron, No. 6 JETTY, CIRCULAR QUAY
Tels.: 86276 (4 line,). A(1^U8 • A/ * CbildrP "> 6d ~ Bydney Ferries> Ltd .
0°
6)
z
r»
!&??$•
»' x
«&■ V ,v tf


*
- £
is
~v
HI
fiL*
r
e
#
1
i
m
ss
M
ayyfe
i
ii
■•• •:
gg
Ask
for a
Him
Light
WHEN next you hear a patriotic Australian assert
that he believes in supporting Australian
industries (and most Australians do); when
next you hear , him say that he makes a rule of using
only Australian-made goods — ASA HIM FOR A
LIGHT!
In about three cases out of five he’ll be carrying
foreign matches:
Not that they’re any better—nor even as good—nor 'that
he thinks they are. Not that he isn’t sincere in his desire
to support Australian industry, but because he took
the first matches that were offered. He simply didn’t
bother. He didn’t realise what it means to thousands
of his fellow-Australians.
Bryant & May’s matches are not inferior to matches
made in any other part of the world, and they are
cheaper to buy. They are made by Australians, working
under ideal working conditions —conditions that aren’t
I *
wen dreamed of in most other countries where
matches are made.
ASK HIM FOR A LIGHT! Make
that a test of his AUSTRALIANISM:
HE'S A GOOD AUSTRALIAN
ALRIGHT BUT HE DOESN'T THINK
Because a match is such a little thing —because it only
costs a trifle—he simply doesn’t realise the huge
number of Australians who deperd on it for a liveli-
hood. A thousand Australians directly employed in
the match factories—many thousands more engaged in
making cardboard, paper, stearine, glue and chemicals,
axemen in the bush, teamsters, railway men, seamen
and wharfies—all engaged in work for the match
factories. All Australians, and all standing to gain by
your use of Australian matches ; all standing to lose by
by your use of foreign matcheSr Insist on getting
BRYANT & HAYS
AUSTRALIAN
MATCHES
