

M&mi
vm
iZ7/.
ssSs=-
>i'' ->r
im
¥
WJ
m
m
v \
S£
»bmb
m
S
XAVS
Si
<v\i^
“X
Eix
IWTOKK
ttltt
!j)|mf|!!iiH'»)»/f||li'ti
\'
MDIfI&XX
,\' v '' , r< 7m.
fc'-iiMlwi' 1 ' •■'' .im£S*=^'-
r
Qusivaliari 771 acle
NONE GENUINE WITHOUT BRAND.
The Bulletin
Vol. 48.—N0. 2449.
Thursday, January 20, 1927.
Price 6dr
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.


THE New Library Catalogue is now
ready and will be forwarded post free, with full
particulars, on application to
DYMOCK’S BOOK ARCADE, LTD.,
428 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
LYSAGHT
o
3
R
AUSTRALIA
Support Australian Industries.
All users of Galvanized Iron should specify
Lysaght’s Australian-made
Galvanized Corrugated Iron.
Manufactured wholly from Australian Raw
Materials, and equal to the best imported.
wk
V
See that you
get-A ER TEX
Tennis Shirts
AERTEX
The scientifically woven texture of
AERTEX material is designed to keep the body
at a Uniform temperature by maintaining a
constant supply of even temperature air to the
skin. You can wear AERTEX in the hottest
weather without discomfort. You are fitter,
fresher, more vigorous when you wear
AERTEX.
Obtainable from all Hosiers. Outfitters and or in
case of difficulty apply to
•a
•a
AEKTEX
Me'
♦a
LOndOH
on all Garment
SEE THIS LABEL ON
ALL GARMENTS,
THE CELLULAR CLOTHING CO. LIMITED
313 Flinders Lane, MELBOURNE, Victoria, Australia
<wht supply Wholesale Trade only A gg
REVOLUTION in SHAVING!
m
vs:
Old Way; Rubbing
Soap made with Soda
into skin
NO SOAP! NO BRUSH!
Why the Shavex Way has come to stay
ShaveX
New
Way
Smear lightly
•aver face
Is it not strange that, for hundreds of years
man has been scrubbing his face with 'soaps
containing soda, and has never reasoned that
under such treatment the skin may suffer? Noth-
ing is more ugly than a face that looks raw.
Shaving soaps are always the same old method
of shaving. They are made with soda. But
now we have discovered SH A VEX, the natural
method, where no brush and soaps containing
soda are needed. «
FREE SAMPLE !
One can shave with Shavex in half the time and
you will get a smoother and closer shave than
you have ever had, and shaving will become
a pleasure. Your skin will look and feel like
satin, and your face under this treatment will
look twice as young'. No after lotions are
required when using Shavex, for it is a skin
food as well.
Large tube, 1/9; larger tube"
(double quantity), 2/6.
A Free Sample oq receipt of 3d. stamp
from Sole Australian Agents:
SALMONT) & SPRAGGON (AUSTRALIA), LTD.,
(Dept. 4) KAOLE AND GLOBE BUILDINGS, 379 KENT STREET, SYDNEY.
Manufactured by The Zeekol Mfg. Co., London, Eng.
J/ost //o/6rooASaj/s ~ 1
“I blend. I stir and 1 brew
the Sauce of the House of
x Holbrook. Aye, and then
3 I mature it in vats of
J English oak.” ,
t
ROOKS
UCE
J
KILL THE TYPHOID FLY.
“MUSTDIE”
THE NON-POISONOUS POW-
DER, is Infallible in Destroying
all Insect Pests, but is Abso-
lutely Harmless to Canaries,
Dogs, Poultry; in fact, all
Animals and Man.
NOT A GERMAN POWDER.
Sold Everywhere. Price V*
BOUSE
FLIES
ARE
POTENT
CARRIERS
ntr
■
The Red Page
Shaw the Novelist
With “Saint Jit>an” and “Back to Methu-
selah” in mind, cA'ie may say that the time
has gone past when it was necessary, to
apologise for an .admiration of Bernard
Shaw. His strong and original mind, his
arresting method of’ utterance, no less than
his perfect command of the technique of his
chosen method of writing—the theatre —have
ensured him a place in the history of drama.
Without him the drama might have re-
mained as artificial as Wilde, as tedious as
Henry Arthur Jones, as sentimental as
Pinero, for another two decadies. He found
the theatre in the mire where a century of
loose thinking and shoddy craftsmanship
had placed it. He left it, not vested with a
new beauty, certainly, but the vehicle of
ideas. That is a Shaw of whom we hear
too little nowadays. There is much written
of Shaw the mountebank, Shaw the char-
latan, Shaw the paradoxical, Shaw the per-
verse, Shaw the disciple of Ibsen, Shaw and
Nietzsche, Shaw the despiser of Shakspeare.
We need to hear more of Shaw the pioneer,
Shaw who transformed the dramatic tech-
nique of liis time, Shaw the thinker, Shaw
the poet. For, despite Mr. J. M. Robert-
son, “Saint Joan” must be ranked with
“Hassau” and with “The Playboy of the
Western World” as one of the most poetical
plays of the century.
It is very possible that dramatic art
would have developed with no Shaw to help
it. But it would have had to wait for
many years. And can one see in our crowd
of dramatists since Shaw anyone big enough
to have made a new tradition? Would many
of them even have written as they did if
Shaw had not lived before them? Gals-
worthy perhaps, Granville Barker perhaps;
but what of the lesser men, Sutro and
Barrie and Bennett and Milne and Somerset
Maugham? And just liow nearly dramatic
art had no Shaw to help it I think we do
not realise.
Shaw is known to us as playwright and
a successful one, but he began as a novelist,
and had he received anything more than
“an encouraging compliment or two from
the most dignified of the London and Ameri-
can publishers,” who unanimously declined
to venture their capital upon him, he might
have remained a novelist to this day. He
was forced into the theatre by the need to
seize public attention if he was to live, by
a tiring of the work of criticism and by the
flat failure of his novels, not because they
were bad novels, “since it is clear that a
novel cannot be too bad to be worth publish-
ing, provided it is a novel at all, and not
merely an ineptitude,” but because they
did not see the light. It was the theatre’s
gain, for Shaw was naturally a novelist.
And the innovations which he brought into
the drama were the result of the application
of the methods of the novel to the stage.
This explains his new technique, his unusual
situations, his bringing of things upon the
stage which had never been seen before.
Thus the arrival of a warship off the Moorish
coast and the bombardment in “Captain
Brassbound.” Thus the burning of the
library at Alexandria in “Caesar and Cleo-
patra,” burned, it proves, by the old fox
Ca'sar to distract attention from his military
operations. This explains, too, the faults
in the Shavian drama, the frequent collapse
of his plays into speech without action, the
desire to talk all round a thing. But it
was the drama’s betterment that resulted.
Shaw’s novels were the product of his
youth. “The Irrational Knot” was written
at 24. “An Unsocial Socialist” a year later.
“Love Among the Artists” followed, written
in two sections, and before it was finished
Shaw confesses that he had to read back
to the beginning, as he might have read any
other man’s novel, to learn the story. “Cashel
Byron’s Profession” has been the most suc-
cessful, and there was even a threat to
dramatise it. To protect it from the fate of
piracy, Shaw was forced to dramatise it
himself, which he did in blank verse and
under the title ‘‘The Admirable Bashville,”
the merits of which may be gauged from the
speech
Then call a cab and let a cab be called
And let the man that calls it be thy footman.
"An Unsocial Socialist” is mere propaganda
and not particularly well done; “Love Among
the Artists,” as one might expect from its
is sprawling and disjointed, with
abrupt breaks in the narrative. It contains
one. excellent sketch of how a musical society
of standing—the “Anticnt Orpheus”—with a
rejuvenated committee, “three of whom were
under 50,” decides to perform a work by
a modern English composer, and takes care
to neutralise the repellent effect on the
public by engaging a young Polish lady
pianist who has recently made an extra-
ordinary success .abroad to make her first
appearance in England on that occasion.
But the novel gives no more than a hint
of what. Shaw might have done had lie con-
tinued in this field. “The Irrational Knot”
on the other ha.nd, is one of the cleverest
pieces of writing that Shaw has given us
<k S n * ver keen sufficiently appreciated.
It suffers from the usual Shaw defect—the
superman hero—but it is an acute study
of character and its development. Marian
land and Sholto Douglas, two of the prin-
cipal characters, are as well drawn as any
portrait that Shaw has done, and the one
s( rious flaw- in the novel is the infinitinn
cooiness and self-sufficiency of Edward Con-
oily, the mechanical genius whom Marian
m Yet u that extr emely irritating atti-
tude of Conolly towards his wife is neces-
sary because it drives her to elope with
Douglas and then to realise her mistake.
Of course it is early stuff. Still I think that
had Shaw remained a novelist he would
have abandoned his Shavian-pattern hero,
who masquerades under different names from
Arms and the Man” to “Man and Super-
man, and created something more lifelike
aj’n with richer blood in his veins. But
then, one remembers what would have been
the position of the stage to-day, in that
eventuality, and is glad that he didn’t
QUENTIN PAGE
Concerning Elegies
Of beauty competitions and exhibits —of
a sort —there are more than enough. Even
the greedy eyes of fleshly connoisseurs are
becoming surfeited by them. 'Of the beauty
that strikes the inward eye no newspaper
-stunter has ever said anything—at least,
within recent memory. Yet there are people
in Australia, tens of thousands of them,
who care a good deal for this sort of thing;
and there are others, not so numerous but
far from negligible, who work and weave in
the non-material atmosphere. The Christ-
mas Bulletin gave a hearing to some
dozens of writers who express, with varying
degrees of artistry, what is not expressible
in the ordinary language of prose. Dozens
more did not get a hearing because, presum-
ably, their execution was not equal to their
intention.
This annual outcrop—it is really a weekly
and a daily outcrop—is a sign of a too little
remembered fact. It is a sign that the
poetic instinct is neither dead nor dormant,
however overloaded and discouraged it may
be by most of- the stuff that gets into print.
By “poetic instinct” is meant that quality
of the mind that appreciates loveliness of
thought and is eager to welcome it when
clothed (as it is not easily or often clothed)
in loveliness of language. Of Australian
verse-writers few—l was going to say none
—seem to realise quite so well as Roderic
Quinn that a poet’s highest mission is to
make abstractions real; to give a voice to
what is normally and in every-day language
voiceless; to make the existence of subtle
and pervading essences and influences known.
Some such idea of the functions of the
highest poetry is behind Quinn’s poem, “The
Young Mother,” in the Christmas Bulletin.
It is an elegy on Australia’s dead in the war.
It recalls in some of its imagery the greatest
of all elegies, Shelley’s “Adonais.” In both
there is the incarnation of spirit forms, the
personification, as mourners, of pantheistic
essences and forces. Among the lesser
themes that versifiers play with, this is
surely the greatest. So far there has been
no supreme dirge, no really deathless song
over our dead in battle. Quinn’s is the
attempt of a man with a poet’s vision and
something of a poet’s equipment. He sees
what is wanted—something more than a
mere personal lament—and essays, not un-
successfully, to give it form. The grief of
Australia is not all grief, but changes to a
song of triumph, just as the grief of Urania
does in “Adonais.” In the Quinn verses
There is mute appeal in the hushed night air,
In the heaving sea and the breathing land.
And again there is
A breeze that sighs and a lonely bird
That calls afar in the brooding trees.
Not transcendentally novel imagery, of course
but yet appropriate within its limits to the
subject in hand. No living man talks the
language of Shelley, and not many can move,
even in fancy, among his orchestra of the
stars. It is something to Quinn’s credit
that he suggests, in “The Young Mother,”
the way Shelley goes.
The greatest of all elegies was written
over a young man, Keats, who died in a
foreign country at the age of 25. Where
will you find, as in “Adonais”—where to
the same extent as there—a symmetry of
form, itself the product of consummate met-
rical artistry, wedded to, like grandeur of
ideas? Built in the empyrean, yet linked
with the sorrows and hopes of earth; a
gorgeous temple that shines steadily above
us, visible always ,to the inward eye. and
joined by chains of light to whatever is
responsive and eternal in the spirit of man !
As to symmetry of form, that is best illus-
trated by quotations, and there is no space
to quote. Besides, if one' started to quote
“Adonais,” where would one stop? The
fabric never fails iii quality—not in any
one of the 55 nine-line verses. Each verse
is woven, as a wonderful piece of mosaic,
into what comes before and after. It is not
a long elegiac poem—short, indeed, by com-
parison with “Lycidas” or “In Memoriam”
—but long enough to permit the working out
of a great conception, and short enougli to
forbid any flagging of interest. The mourn-
ing Urania strikes the opening note of sor-
row ; then every spiritual and impalpable
entity of which the mind can conceive—-lost
Echo, the young Dawn, the quick Dreams,
Pleasure blind with tears, Sorrow with her
family of sighs—become incarnate before
the bier.
This splendid pageantry sweeps in melo-
dious mourning through the first half; but
in the second half other voices are heard,
each more resonant and more hopeful than
the last. In the final passages the note of
triumph rises magnificently oyer the muted
strings of grief. The one mourned for is
not dead ; “he does not sleep—he has awak-
ened from the dream of life;” Every phrase,
every line, becomes transfused with a white
light, as of something not earthly, but undy-
ing. “He is made one with Nature”—the
whole mystery and glory of Pantheism is in
that line—-and in its final and death-defeat-
ing flight
The soul of Adonais, like a star,
Beacons from the abode where the Eternal are.
Paraphrases are poor tilings, and prose
comments just as poor to convey anything
of what has not only a glory of its own, but
a language of its own. Yet we can see that
word-symbols which . embody a great hope
and a great aspiration are among the price-
less possessions of any nation.
A. J. B.
Mrs. Besant and Mr. Krishnamurti
[Dr. Bean, the writer of this article, was formerly
the general secretary of the Theosophical Society.]
“M.G.S.’s” able review of Dr. Annie
Besant’s life is, in the main, just and sympa-
thetic, but nevertheless leaves in the mind
an impression that Mrs. Besapt wa s impul-
sively inconsistent in her sudden changes of
viewpoint. That is not so, as I shall hope
to show. Her most striking change of all
from an idealistic atheism, filled with the
(Continued on page S.)


Cidhesu/ftotdefasjfye
X
4
n
31VS
ran
#
Hu
si m
*
s
■Ai4» ry p uy f^ 7l ll^
Phenomenal, Unparalleled
are the Bargains at
Last day
Saturday,
February 5
Manchester Bargains.
White Turkish Towels, all reliable British
makes.
Sizes ..20x40 24x47 20x48m.
Usually 2/2 2/6 3/6 each
Reduced to .. 1/11 2/3 3/2 each
White Hemstitched Towels, Christy’s genuine
qualities.
Sizes 22x45 25x52 30 x5B in.
Usually 3/3 4/3 5/6 each
Reduced to ...2/11 3/11 4/11 each
Unbleached Turkish Towels. Qualities every
housewife will appreciate.
Sizes 17 x 32 20 x 43 21 x 45 23 x4O in.
Usually 1/1 1/11 2/2 2/8 each
Reduced to lid. 1/7 1/11 2/5 each
Turkish Bath Towels, strong wearing quality;
red stripes on cream ground with knotted fringe.
Size 30 x 55 inches. Usually 3/9. 0/0
Reduced to, each O' O
Unbleached Turkish Rollering, 16 inches
wide. Excellent for Kitchen or bathroom
towels. _ ,
Usually 1/- 1/3 1/6 1/9 yd.
Reduced to 10 d. 1/1 1/4 1/7 yd.
Kitchen 'Towelling. A strong _ hard-wearing
quality that will give service. Union Towelling.
Widths 27 36 ins.
Usually 1/2 1/6 yd.
Reduced to 1/- 1/3 yd.
(Manchester —First Floor.)
Amazing Silk Values.
Lingerie Spun Crepe-de-Chine, 40 inches
wide. Something new and different —a silk that
will launder well. In White, Nil. Reseda, Bois-
de-Rose, Sand, Almond, Nattier, Saxe, Fawn,
Biscuit, Cinnamon, Powder, Cedarwood, Lemon,
Mauve, Amethyst, Pink, Grey, Vieux Rose,
Salmon and Sky. Usually 14/11 and q/1 1
12/11 yard. Reduced to 0/11
Heavyweight French Crepe-de-Chine, 38
inches wide. In a splendid range of colors.
Black, Apricot, Sky, Pink, Cardinal, Saxe,
Maize, Helio, Turquoise, Violet, Tomato,
Powder, Brown, Putty, Cinnamon, Bois-de-Rose,
Saxe, Vieux Rose and Tan. Usually Q/1 1
12/11 yard. Reduced to ° “ x
French Black Marocain, 38 inches wide.
Think what you can save at these worth-while
reductions. A splendid wearing quality with
excellent finish. Usually -l (\/(? 0/11
12/11, 10/11. Reduced to IVU C*, O/ 1 1
Striped Crepe-de-Chine, 36 inches wide.
Something new and distinctive ; designs are most
exclusive —there’s a splendid range to select
from. A silk on which you can save
2/1 Od. per yard. Usually 11/9 yard. Q/1 1
Reduced to w * *
(Silks—First Floor.)
Dress Fabric Reductions.
Seal Brown Sealette, 50in. width. Ifl/fi
Usually 21/- yd. Reduced to . . xv w
Seal Brown Sealette, 50in. width. -i 1/O
Usually 22/6 yd. Reduced to . . x
Black Italian Cloth (Special), 54in. O/fi
width. Usually 3/6 yd. Reduced to v
BLACK SERGES.
54in. Black Fine Rib Coating. Usually Q/1 1
10/6 yd. Reduced to O/ X X
54in. Black Fine Rib Coating. Usually 11 /g
13/6 yd. Reduced to ••• • •
54in. Black Fine Rib Coating. Usually *» O/fi
16/6 yd. Reduced to
Luvisca —good washing and wearing material;
suitable for dresses, shirts, pyjamas, etc.
31 in. White and Colored grounds, with 0/11
colored stripes. Usually 3/6. Red. to 6 A *
(Dress Material —First Floor.)
Hosiery Inducements.
Full-Fashioned Cashmere Hose, All-Wool,
featuring fancy vertical patterns in Black wit 1
White, Brown with Self, Navy with Con- O/ 1 1
trasting Stripe. Usually 6/11. Ked. to O 11
Plain Black Pure Silk Hose, Pnma Donna,
full-fashioned, medium weight, perfect uttin ß ,
high spliced heels, wide lisle suspender y/1 1
tops. Usually 13/11. Reduced to., ' ll
Black Ribbed Heavy Art Silk Hose, full-
fashioned, fine wool soles and tops, splice
heels and toes. Usually 10/0. 5/3
Reduced to
Heavyweight Pur© Silk and Art Silk Hose,
with aeamed leg, reinforced lisle suspender tops
nnd soles Every pair guaranteed perfect. Sim
Sver knee In Bark, Sand. Cork, Sunrise Sun-
set, Champagne, Cream, Peach, Gazelle, Fawn,
Silver, Parchment, Black or W hite. 3/9
Usually 4/9 pair. Reduced to **
(Hosiery —First Floor.)
Women’s Shoes to Clear.
Clearance of High-grade Nu-Buck Shoes
in various styles and shapes —all ends of rcguiai
Sock lines! including Paragon.farmed and
other well-known makes. Usually 27/6 g/_
to 59/6 pair. ALL TO CLEAR
Special Clearance of Bally’s High-grade
Grev Suede Court Shoes, with handsome
Beaded Tabs, Pump Soles and new style rrenc
Louis Spike Heels. Usually 59/6 pair. 25/-
Reduced to
The “Leda” Sports Shoes in White Canvas ;
a nerfect-fitting ankle-strap design with White
Rubber Soles. Ideal for tennis or beach wear.
Best Canadian make. Usually 9/11 pair. 7/ 11
Reduced to
Special Clearance of High-grade Two-tone
Shoes, featuring Patent and Grey, Patent an
Nigger and Patent and Fawn. Usual luces
ranged from 32/6 to 42/- pair.
TO CLEAR AT LESS THAN HALF- g/_
PRICE
(Footwear —Second Floor.)
Save on Smokers’ Sundries.
Bronze Metal Smokers’ Stands, with Glass Ash
Tray Cigar Rests and Match Holder. •» O/0
Usually 15/-. Reduced to ....
Oxidised Smokers’ Stands. Usually 21/- 10/0
Reduced to
Jacobean Wood Stands. Usually 35/- 00/0
Reduced to **** v
Wood Smokers’ Stands, assorted poker- 37/0
work designs. Usually 40/- Red. to V
Ejector Cigarette Tubes. Usuallj 1/- ,/9
Reduced to
Ejector Cigarette Tubes. Usually 1/3. Jy m
Reduced to
Baccalite Cigarette Tubes, 4in. long. /IQ
Usually 1/-. Reduced to x v
Baccalite Cigarette Tubes, sin. long. I/O
Usually 1/6. Reduced to *■' **
Vulcanite Cigarette Tubes, Gold Mounted n/Q
sin. and 6in. long. Usually 8/9. Red to O/ V
Erinoid Cigar Tubes, Silver Mounted. 0/0
Usually 4/6. Reduced to v
Metal Ash Trays, Daisy Pattern. 1/0
Usually 1/6. Reduced to 1 «
Ash Trays, with Safety Match Holder -1 -1 /
and Pipe Stand. Usually 14/6. Red. to IP
(Tobacco —Ground Floor.)
Men’s Mercery Savings.
Striped Golf Shirts —made in our own work-
rooms, the fit and finish being all that could
be desired. The materials are British ana
reliable in wear. , , ~
Woven Striped Zephyr, V-cased front, double
cuffs, in a wide range of stripes, no collar, e
Usual Price, 6/6. Reduced to . . . ... « J/ V r
British Cambric, Y-cased front, double cults,
detached collar, fine and block blue (*/(!
stripes. Usual Price, 7/6. Reduced to. . vJ/U
British Twill and British Crepe, double cults,
detached collar, in the latest stripe effects. O/C
Usual Price, 9/6. Reduced to • u
Good Quality British Zephyr, V-cased front,
double cuffs, detached collar; neat stripes on
light ground. Usual Price, 8/6. n/£*
Reduced to * u
(Mercery —Ground Floor.)
Back to School Bargains
in Boys’ Durable Shirts.
Bovs’ White Oxford Shirts, with collar and
pocket attached. Size 11 to Well
made and finished. Usually 4/6. Q/f?
Reduced to • • u
Boys’ White Chrysilka Sports Shirts with
smart sports collar. All sizes are avail- A/ Q
able. Usually 5/6. Reduced to . . **
Boys’ Striped Drill Shirts. Serviceable dark
grounds with stripes or plain Navy. Collar
and pocket attached. Usually 7/-. C/£*
Reduced to ,7
Boys’ Ranger Shirt Blouses. In a Hard-
wearing Nurse Cloth. Light and dark stripes
or checks. Sizes 11, Hi- Usually A/ 0
4/11. Reduced to
Sizes 12 to 14. Usually 5/3. 4/0
Reduced to
Ranger Shirts, in Duro Zephyr; neat light
stripe designs. All sizes. Usually a /
4/11. Reduced to O
Fuji Silk Ranger Shirts, in a range of attrac-
tive striped designs. Made from a reli-
able all-silk Fuji. Usually 13/6.
Reduced to IU/ O
Natural Fuji Silk Rangers —well made and
finished. Excellent quality Fuji. i/\'g
Usually 12/6. Reduced to 1U- O
(Boys’ Mercery—Ground Floor.)
Razors Astoundingiy Priced.
HOLLOW GROUND RAZORS.
“Uni Invicta” Full Hollow Ground Razors, fin.
Blade, White Xylonite Handle. Usual. Price, o /
9/6. Reduced to "
“Uni Invicta” Full Hollow Ground Razors, #m.
Blade, White Xylonite Handle. Usual Price, H/ m
8/6. Reduced to *
“IJni Invicta” Full Hollow Ground Razors, jin.
Blade, Black Handle. Usual Price, 8/6. » /
Reduced to . . • / “
“Bengali” Razors, fin. Blade, Black,Handle. j
Usual Price, 6/-. Reduced to .. .; O/"
Bengali Razors, fin. Blade. Black Handle. A/Ck
Usual Price, 5/9. Reduced to ......... ** /
Bengali Razors, fin. Blade, White Xylonite fi/Q
Handle. Usual Price, 8/-. Reduced to . . V *7
(Razors —First Floor.)
MAIL YOUR ORDERS.
If you cannot shop personally, do so by
mail in perfect confidence that an
expert Mail Order Staff will skilfully
and expeditiously execute your orders.
Postage Paid on Fashion Gioods, Family
Drapery, Footwear, Men's and Boys’
Clothing in N.S.W., and to the nearest
Interstate Port.
ANTHONY HORDERN & Sons Limited.
BRICKFIELD HILL. SYDNEY. Telephone:*City 9440.
G.P.O. Box 2712 C.


Now AustraHanlndustiy
Helps Create These
Famous Values
HUDSONESSEX
70 Per Cent Australian Built
The acknowledgment of Hudson-Essex values as
expressed in years of outstanding sales success has
made possible this important combination of Austra-
lian and American industrial resources in the produc-
tion of the greatest Hudson-Essex values ever offered
in this market.
It has required years of study and development to
organise material, manufacturing and distributing
resources in America and Australia and merge the
contributions of each in Hudson-Essex cars now 7Q %
Australian built. The result is not only a stimulation
of Australian motor manufacturing, the employment
of Australian management, capital, skill and labor,
the increase of prosperity in this industrial field, but
it creates a great series of exclusive economies which
are passed on to buyers in the lowest prices for the
finest Hudson and Essex cars ever built.
Hudson-Essex have long held a leadership in perform-
ance, smoothness, and long-lasting reliability that
is in no way limited by the price advantage they offer.
Now they are finer than ever in those respects. Per-
formance is bettered. Economy is greater. Reliability
is increased. To these advantages are added more
beautiful bodies, new lines, new colors and new dis-
tinction. And think of the advantages of the new
prices in these models, 70 % Australian built—the
Essex Touring at £239, the Essex Coach at £299, and
the Hudson Touring at £399. Is there any car that
ever offered so much within scores of pounds of
the price?
Priced the
Lowest in History
New Lines, New Colors, Richer
Upholstery and Appointment.
Essex Touring - £239
Essex Coach- - - £299
Hudson Touring £399
Any comparison will satisfy you
that such automobile values were
never before offered.
Also on Display—
Hudson Coach, £465.
Hudson Brougham, £525.
Hudson 7-Pass. Sedan, £560.
Prices some points slightly higher.
fHE HUDSON MOTOR CAR COMPANY, Detroit, Michigan, U.S.A.
NEAL’S MOTORS PTY., LTD.,
Exhibition Street, Melbourne.
. AUTOS, LTD.,
Hay Street, Perth.
LEADER MOTORS, LTD.,
415 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
H. C. HEATHORN & CO., LTD.,
Hobart and Launceston.
DALGETY & CO., LTD.,
Phillip Street, Sydney.
MOTORS, LIMITED,
Flinders Street, Adelaide.
1162-16#


See how alive ENO is!
DD a “dash” of ENO to a glass of water,
/Vand see how it springs immediately to bubbling
life. ENO’s “Fruit Salt” is so different from other
preparations —it does not require to be stirred into
activity, and there is no gritty residue nothing
nauseating—no waste.
In fact, ENO provides the most pleasant way
of eliminating waste products from the system,
removing the causes of constipation, indigestion,
liver disorders, depression and sleeplessness.
To preserve good health, drink a glass of water
every morning sparkling with a “dash” of ENO.
Prepared only by
J. C. ENO, Limited,
London, England.
Sales Agents: The British
Harold F.RitchieSt. Co.,
Ltd., Sydney, N.S.W.
?
IN
TWO SIZES
AT CHEMISTS
AND STORES.
THE WORDS "FRUIT SALT" AND ENO ARE REGISTERED TRADE MARKtb
spirit of Universal Brotherhood, to Theoso-
phy-even that was led up to gradually aim
inevitably, and was but an honest and logi-
cal re-adjustment (such as great scientists
are constantly making) to meet a sudden
great expansion in her philosophy ot nte.
It is characteristic of supremely spiritual
people that they should, from time to time,
have marked changes of viewpoint, startling
to the casual critic. Their progress m
spiritual vision is exactly in proportion to
their intense earnestness of effort in the
service of mankind. Hence, just as an ex-
plorer, toiling up some final mountain-range
beyond which lies a land of promise, gains,
stage by stage, an survey,
and has to keep periodically revising his
estimate of the unfolding prospect, so, too, is
it with these great climbers of the heights ot
spirituality. What may seem to most an
inconsistency, a contradiction, is really no-
thing but a logical, honest and fearless re-
adjustment necessitated by ever-increasing
knowledge and experience. With Walt Whit-
man all such may ask: “Do I contradict my-
self? Very well, then; I contradict uiyself.
(I am large. I contain multitudes.)”
St. Paul is an outstanding example of such
sudden re-adjustments. His favorite descrip
tion of the spiritual state of himself and
other earnest truth-seekers is not gnosis
(realisation, or spiritual vision) but epi-
gnosis (an ever-expanding, progressive reali-
sation). Moreover, equally in St. Paul’s
day and to-day, world-conditions (and hence
world-problems) change with enormous
rapidity. Standpoints had and have to be
reviewed from time to time to square with
these changed conditions. So Mrs. Besant’s
changes are not a sign of erratic inconsist-
ency, but of rapid progress, of capacity for
logical re-adjustment and of fearless honesty
of purpose.
In one matter, “M.G.S.” is misleading. I
allude to his reference to Krishnamurti. I
don’t know to what particular incident he
refers, but I do know Mr. Krishnamurti, and
beyond question he has never publicly given
utterance to anything which could rightly
be interpreted as a shallow distaste for or
lack of realisation of his “exalted mission.”
Moreover, both he and Mrs. Besant have
repeatedly repudiated the statement that he
is “the Messiah” or “a New Messiah.”
What Mrs. Besant does claim is that the
physical body of Mr. Krishnamurti wifi be
used by the Christ as His instrument of
physical contact with our world during His
“second coming,” said to be now “at our
very doors.” The title “Messiah,” I believe,
is not in favor with Mrs. Besant, since it has
a too exclusively Jewish or Christian signifi-
cance, whereas Christ is the world-teacher,
and comes to all religions alike, as well as
to those outside any “labelled” religion.
Christ, it is claimed, took over the body of
His holy disciple Jesus at the moment sym-
bolised by the baptism in Jordan, when
“the Spirit descended upon Him in the form
of a dove and abode with Him.” The same
experience, Mrs. Besant declares, will happen
to Mr. Krishnamurti — has, indeed, happened
on more than one occasion, already, for a few
short moments. Another entity, a spirit far
diviner and more exalted than Mr. Krish-
namurti himself, has already, it is asserted,
taken possession of the latter’s body and on
one occasion spoken through it, to an audi-
ence of some thousands, words of world-com-
fort congruous only if coming from our
blessed Lord Himself.
Time, which proves all things, will eventu-
ally prove or disprove this tremendous thing.
In the meantime, no one who has the
privilege of personally knowing Mr. Krishna-
murti, or who has studied his books, “At the
Feet of the Master,” “Education is Service, ’'
“Editorial Notes” and other writings, can
for one moment accept as accurate the asser-
tion made in “M.G.S.’s” reference to him.
That Mr. Krishnamurti has genial social
instincts and is fond of tennis is, no doubt,
true. Why should he not be a simple and
natural (though ideal) expression of the
twentieth century, since it is to the world of
to-day that he comes, not to the world of
2000 years ago?
J. BEAN.
Art—and an Artist
“Day breaks! And still your door is
closed!” sang the Victorian lover who
delighted our grandparents. As a caller he
was, perhaps, exacting. Day broke in
Europe in 1824, when Turner, Delacroix,
Courbet and Daumier threw open their can-
vases to the influence of light. And still
our minds are shut to it.
“The more opposition in color the more
brilliance,” wrote Delacroix. He, having seen
Constable’s three famous landscapes in the
Salon of that year, went home—and re-
painted his masterpiece. He had learnt (it
was Constable who told him) that several
conflicting greens are better than one green.
He had found, too, that “it is good not to
let each brush stroke melt into the others:
they will appear uniform at a certain dis-
tance by the sympathetic law which governs
them.” These theories, invented by Turner
and Constable, and postulated by Delacroix,
were perfected by Manet, Monet, Pissarro
and the giant Renoir. “Fee! Fo! Fi!
Fum! I’ll paint the flesh of a French
woman!” cried that Colossus. And he did
—flushed with rose; rounded ; firm.
All great men take certain liberties with
form. The Impressionists found that “sun-
light disperses matter by obscuring some
points and emphasising others.” Renoir, “dis-
torting volumes for the purposes of organisa-
tion,” distorted light. In the pictures of
Cezanne, who produces harmony of line by
accentuating its differences (just as Dela-
croix produced harmony of color by accentu-
ating its differences), the argument of the
Impressionists is, by the first Post-Impres-
sionist, brought to a logical conclusion.
“Form is color, color form,” is the closing
diapason of these movements. By treating
line as color is treated, a more perfect ex-
pression of form has become possible. So
limned it gains depth: it suggests recession :
it projects: it is enveloped in a unity as
profound as Nature’s. “Which will ' you
have, form or color?” Tradition with her
hands behind her used to ask the artist.
But we have left the nursery. We can have
both.
“Shut your eyes and open your mouth, and
gee what the fairy will send you,” was
another of the games which Tradition plays
with the neophyte. “Inspiration” was the
name she gave it. But we have learnt
(Sir Joshua Reynolds continually stresses
this point) that an artist must work with
his eyes open, wide open. He need not keep his
mouth shut. The notebooks of Leonardo da
Vinci, with their reasoned studies in perspec-
tive; the pathetic utterances of Van Gough;
Millet’s peasant murmurs; all Goya said,
and Manet, and Velasquez, and Hogarth
(whose self portrait shows him with liis
line of grace and beauty drawn on liis
palette), all Tintoret said, and Titian and
Gauguin prove to us with what ardor great
men pursue their ideals'.
I will not cease from mental strife,
Nor shall the sword fall from my hand,
Till 1 have built Jeiusalem—
said Blake. They do not cease from mental
strife. It is the secret of genius.
“Thank God,” said a clever woman to me
—“thank God that Australia has escaped
the succeeding diseases of European art!”
This is one way of dismissing the acclaimed
masterpieces of four generations of great
artists. It is a common attitude. It ac-
counts for the abuse which our critics (but
vituperation is not criticism) have levelled
at the masterpieces of Mr. Roi de Mestre.
These pictures, “The Path,” “The Fountain,”
another garden piece, a still life, a figure
study, two landscapes, were recently exhibited
at the Grosvenor Gallery, Sydney. It is hard
for me to say how much I admire them. For
since they are great art-—not illustrative
art —they cannot be described in terms of
any other art. If I tried to write about
them I should be like that Babu who para-
phrased Keats: “Nightingale not good table-
bird; therefore, sportsman him not shoot.”
It is possible to recognise in that the
lines:—
Thou wast not born for death, immortal bird,
No hungry generations tread thee down.
As little you could see, through any words
of mine, the beauty of those superb can-
vases. You must experience this beauty for
yourselves. For my part, they have brought
home to my mind the truth of these words
of Arthur Clutton-Brock :
The art of mankind is the offering of its wise
men; it is the adoration of the Magi, who are one
with the simplest in their worship:
“Wise men, all ways of knowledge past,
To the shepherds’ wonder come at last.”
But they do not lose their wisdom in their wonder.
When it passes into wonder, when all the knowledge
and skill and passion of mankind are poured into
the acknowledgment of something greater than
themselves, then that acknowledgment is art, and
it has a beauty which may be envied by the natural
beauty of God Himself.
ETHEL ANDERSON.
“I Seen Him”
While agreeing that mimicry of their
parents is largely responsible for the un-
grammatical speech of children, how account
for the parents’ lack of grammar? Most
of them were children themselves 20 to 30
years ago, and even in those days education
was by no means confined to the favored,
wealthy few. Is their use of “You was,”
“We was,” “We have went,” “Would of
went,” “We seen,” and so forth, their
ignorance or deliberate choice? To a
very large extent, I think, it is the latter.
To suggest that it is ignorance is to sugges*'
that our educational system, in one ver„
important respect, has been, and still is, a
failure. A year or two back a youth of 15,
who had just completed eight years at a
country public-school, was questioning me
about a couple of beagles I keep on the farm.
“Does them ’ounds ’unt?” he asked. Shortly
afterwards he went to work in a near-by coal-
mine, and I had a long letter from him. The
grammar was practically faultless. That
boy’s father is a miner, too. He is about 40,
was well educated and writes quite decent
English, but speaks it atrociously. Why?
Because he prefers to.
To explain this amazing and very wide-
spread preference is rather difficult, but I
would suggest that behind it lies “class-
consciousness.” Many of our self-styled
wage-plugs, the majority of whom probably
spent several years at school and should
be able to speak fairly correctly, regard
decent English as an attribute of the em-
ployer, the high-brow, the boiled-shirt
brigade. “There’s nothin’ good about them,”
they reason, sub-consciously—“not even their
blinkin’ language. They say ‘I saw.’ We'll
say ‘I seen’; an’ be damned to ’em.” And
so on to the bitter end. The result is that we
have two languages, both standardised.
Now, having diagnosed the case, let us
seek a cure. There are two. (1) Eliminate
class-consciousness. A century or two may
do this. (2) Let the employers, the high-
brows and the boiled-shirt brigade discard
their own language and forthwith adopt the
other. Make a thorough job of it. Let “I
seen,” “I done,” “I would of went,”
be used freely in our universities, in our
papers and magazines, in our schools and
churches, and in our law courts. Our Houses
of Parliament will do very much as they
are. It will entail a trifling sacrifice on the
part of 5 p.c. of the people; but what of
that when it will confer the boon of Eng-
lish “pure and undefiled” on 95 p.c.? And
it will do that beyond all doubt. Pure cussed-
ness will work the oracle.
BUTTENDERRY.
A Satchel of Books
By Gordon’s Grave, and Other Verses, by J. L.
Menzies (Brown, Prior, Melb.), is f.a.q. verse and
not quite that at times.
The Boss of the Diamond A, by Robert Ames
Bennet (McClurg). Another story of the Wild West
and the usual girl.
These Old Shades, by Georgette Heyer (Heinemann).
A brightly and skilfully told and picturesque his-
torical story cast in the days of Louis the Fifteenth.
The Blithe Sheriff, by E’. R. Buckley (Geoffrey
Bles). The usual story of old Bill Garfield, sheriff
of Three Pines county, in the State of Texas —where
the cowpunchers punch.
The Gilt Cage, by Marguerite Steen (Geoffrey
Bles). It tells you how Paula Countess of Oraye
looked in bed, how she looked when she got up and
what happened to her in Merry Mayfair—as under-
stood by Jenkins. No better and no worse than a
thousand Others.
Coff’s Harbor District (Daily Examiner, Grafton).
Fifty-six years ago Walter Harvey settled in the
foresft of Ooff’s Harbor and shipped cedar logs from
the then exposed port. Since then hundreds of
millions of feet of timber have been carried bv sea
and later on by rail from the magnificently wooded
district. On the cleared land hundreds 'of farms
have been settled, and its rich soil probably compares
with anv to be found in the Commonwealth. To
bring before the public the resources and potential
wealth of this beautiful and fertile territory of the
N.S.W. North Coast is the object of an admirably
produced and comprehensive illustrated booklet pre-
pared under the direction of the Goff’s Harbor
Chamber of Commerce.
A Little Book of Burns Lore, compiled by J. D.
Ross (Eneas Mackay). Dr. Ross is the author of
“Burnsiana,” ‘‘Burns Clarinda” and 20 other volumes
on the same central figure. The present little
pleasant book will be a delight to most Scots and
many Sassenachs.
An African Attila, by P. A. Stuart (Fisher
Unwin). These tales of the Zulu reign of terror
are the narrations of an old warrior to the author.
They move round Tshaka, the great Zulu chief, and
the reader may prepare himself for a few hours
of gore.
Broken Waters, by James Murray (Cecil Palmer).
A novel with a new theme and a strong tang of
the sea. Interwoven with a romantic interest is the
narrative of a gun-running venture in a yawl, between
Scottish waters and the coast of Ireland during the
Sinn Fein trouble in 1921. Told in the breezy
fashion of the sailorman.
Uncle Ben’s Book o’ Fun. The bedtime stories
wirelessed to countless homes have filled a want,
and the amusement and instruction given by broad-
casting stations in every State must have an appre-
ciable informative effect upon the minds of the
youngsters. This illustrated storybook is admirably
written and produced by 4QG, Brisbane: —-
“Old King Tut was a radio nut,
And a radio nut was he;
He called for his set and his cigarette,
And he listened to 4QG.”
Sugar and Spice, by Lady Kitty Vincent (John
Lane). “You aren’t man’s equal, you never will
be, but the good God gave you wheedling ways and
a pair of warm arms and you may as well use them”
• —that is a fair specimen of the sugar and spice.
The wit is kittenish and the illustrations are by
Fish. A book to pick up—and easy to put down.
Dream Island, by Florence Riddell (Geoffrey Bles).
In the roar of London Town, Linn Morrison dreams
of the lotos peace of some far palm-girt island.
By a shuffle of Life’s cards she reaches her island,
only to find that peace of soul is not ensured by
environment alone. But of course love came, and
the manner of it is the theme of an entertaining
effort of imagination.
Great Short Stories of the World (Heinemann).
The editors of this collection —Barrett H. Clark and
Maxim Lieber —have in 1066 pages of closely printed
matter gathered short stories or narrative frag-
ments from Ancient Egypt, Greece and Rome, Ancient
India, Persia and Arabia and from the literatures of
Britain, France, Italy, Germany, Spain, Scandinavia,
Russia, the Balkan States, the Americas and other
quarters of the globe. It is a Scotch haggis of
confused eating.
The. Problems of the Slutkspeare Sonnets, by J.
M. Robertson (Routledge). Wars and pestilence
may stalk through the land, but tucked away some-
where, regardless of the world and by the world
passed by, is surely a student of the sonnets, trying
to worry out which and how many came indubitably
from the pen of the master. The present learned
writer thinks that only some two-thirds are Shak-
speare’s—“thus pro tanto altering our conception of
Shakspeare for the better.”
The Novels of Jane Austin (Clarendon Press). The
editor of this library edition (5 vols.), R. W. Chap-
man, says that “for nearly a century the vulgate
text was'deformed by accidental errors and injudicious
alterations and these blemishes are now rectified.”
The spelling and characteristic punctuation of the
original text are retained, and all admirers of the
popular writer of the last days of the eighteenth and
early years of the last century will welcome a
faithfully edited and admirably produced set, with
its illustrations! from contemporary sources.
The Quest of the Holy Grail (Dent). T^ ls
lation by William W star Co® rt . “
College, Pennsylvania, from the old * t l,uii a n
has a special interest for students of the A 4l
legend. The reader will also find in it tne .
of a modern romance in a setting of a \ liar ' ellt |y
The quest is dated about 1220, and jS of
conceived by someone writing unde! the picture
the Cistercian Order; it was intended to be a pc tu
of the victorious Christian life asvisioned
mediaeval humanity by the White r riars.
Mothers and Daughters, by Jfflßica O. Cosgiave
(Methuen). The lady, who offers advice to mothe
in the training of their daughters, wntes out ot
25 years’ experience of girls in an edu c a
institution and is herself a mother. On the subject
of marriage: “It is my experience that nappy
marriages in the vast majority of cases come between
the age of 25 years and 28 or 30 years °f age-
the earlier marriages are sometimes made m ti >
but in far too many instances are the result oi
weariness with the old round of pleasures at d
desire for a complete change of surroundings.
A History of Siam, by W. A. R. Wood (fishei
Unwin). Siam'has a written history extending back
to a. i). 1370. It is mainly a record of wars, leoei-
]ions and murdered members of the royal family.
The Siamese were great imperialists in their aay.
Thev even measured bludgeons with China, and attei
one "argument “80 p.c. of the inhabitants of Szechuan
were wearing artificial noses and ears. Neverthe-
less, running through the barbarous tale is a vein
of sturdy self-reliance and commonsense which per-
haps explains why Siam has survived the impact o
Western imperialism while neighbors have succumbed.
There was never any nonsense about law-enforcement
in Siam. The person who shook the royal barge
promptly parted with his headpiece. For kicking
the King’s front door one lost one’s foot. Hence
the ruler was respected and all were happy—as
long as they -kept away from the palace. lhey
will probably remain happy until someone arrives
to show them how much happier they might be it
everybody had a vote.
The Romance of Evolution, by W. E. Leggatt
.(Sydney Worker Print). The man in the moon is
given a new significance in this volume, which is
ottered as “a scientific review of the phenomena sur-
rounding the mysteries of evolution and the advent
of man.” The Darwinian theory of the descent of
man does not, in the author’s opinion, supply an
adequate explanation of his appearance on our earth.
The conclusion he draws from the whole body of
scientific knowledge is that man when he did arrive
upon earth was in a more or less advanced state of
civilisation. He says: “We invariably find man by
his remains as a creature far removed above the
animal races. A social creature with a variety of
prerogatives, a species standing alone, mentally
superior to all other species.” He does not discard
the principle of evolution. Natural selection he
admits may have done its part in developing man
in past ages, but —and this is hisl point—prior to his
advent on this world. The evolutionary process-
assuming such a process—was carried out not on the
earth, but in the moon, whose developmental period
was well in advance of our own earth’s; “its
cycle of organic evolution started much sooner.”
At a certain period in cosmic history there was, he
concludes, a general disturbance in the solar system
and a vortex of air and water from the moon to the
earth took place and man had to follow it or perish.
He followed it. Just how he performed this aerobatic
feat the author frankly admits he does not know, but
assumes that the human being of that period was
“a masterpiece of athletic and physical development
compared to the modern man.” He had need to be.
Thus, according to Mr. Leggatt, came man from the
moon. He supports his theory, which is at least
quite as plausible as the Adamic one, by a whole
sheaf of miscellaneous matter which if not acceptable
as conclusive evidence furnishes as much material
for, the solution of the mystery of life as any other
body of mixed theory and fact.


Holden s contribution
to Australian Enterprise
a ( u /// x
“T
9
m
m
p»
pjm
©
«w-
-mvM
JUUL i
i
£TTING NEW STANDARDS in
charm of design, as well as in
excellence of interior and exterior
finish, Holden’s Australian Motor
Bodies offer unequalled factors of safety,
which add considerably to the comfort
and confidence of thousands of Australian
Motorists.
The remarkable rate of progress since 1921
can best be realized by these extracts from
the Balance Sheets
1921-2
Turnover - - £357,643
Wages and Salaries £75,869
Number of Bodies
Produced - 4,190
1925-6
£2,251,281
£652,566
32,398
AND NOW TO-DAY
by virtue of their supremacy the number of Holden Motor Bodies Manu-
factured at the Works in Adelaide- One of the Largest in the World—is
1,200 A WEEK!
Such facts as these cannot but offer incontrovertible proof of this
fine product’s infinite superiority
II?
zs.
ADELAIDE. WOODVILLE [S.A.] MELBOURNE. SYDN EY, BRIS BAN E..


Plume is
Famous for
ACHIEVEMENT
w>.
l &
PLUME
&
4:i|
£ll
lit I'
-J
li:. It
Kffli
y<
a
I
s ■ r: raj
Plume Motor Spirit was used in the
following events:
EVERY
’Round-Australia Motor Trip
EVERY
Inter-Capital Speed Record
THE ONLY
Aeroplane Flight ’Round Australia
THE ONLY
Seaplane Right ’Round Australia
OUTRIGHT WINNER
Alpine Contest—l 926
Australasian 24-hr.
Tracts Record (1468 Miles)
Surely an unequalled record and the greatest proof of the high standing
of Plume in the motoring world.
In the performance of your own car this dependable motor spirit will
giye you the same Service and Satisfaction as is experienced by
thousands of car owners throughout Australia and New Zealand.
Procurable Only
in Australia
and New Zealand.
LooK for the PLUME Disc
on the Kerb Pump
VACUUM OIL COMPANY PH Lm


The
IMPROVED PACKARD SIX
n.
%'
% ", *
ft
4
SINGLE.SIX FIVE.PASSENGER PHAETON
"Ask the Man Who Owns One”
«
THOSE who know, say that there is no finer car on
on the road than the Packard. Now, more than ever
is the time to "Ask the Man who Owns one.” Packard
owners, almost without exception, are motorists of long
standing and of discriminating tastes, and the fact that
their ultimate choice is Packard is only a logical conclu-
sion to their search for the best in motoring.
Packard has long excelled in distinction, comfort, dependability and econ-
omy. Greater than ever in all of these attributes the improved Packard
now excels in performance. As a by-product of recent improvements in
engine design and construction the Packard has been given increased
power far in excess of ordinary requirements but giving an added as-
surance of reliability.
For the man who wants a really fine car at a moderate outlay there can be
nothing better than a Packard.
Single-Six Five-Passenger Phaeton s
£875
*%}ng BJV 1517 ftr demonstration .
IRA L. & A. C. BERK (Packard) LTD.
Distributors: Berk House, 72-76 William Street, Sydney.
Write or call for Catalogue.
Kellow, Falkmer Pty. Ltd., The Universal Motors Ltd., S. A. Motors (Packard) Ltd. , H. C. Heathorn & Co. Ltd „ Denny Bros. Ltd.,
206 Russell St., Melbourne. Petrie’s Bight, Brisbane. 141 Flinders St., Adelaide, Hobart, Tasmania. 439 - H y Murray St. Perth
PACKARD
THE RESTFUL CAR


ABBEY GOLF SHOES
Made of special brown willow
calf with uppers finished in a neatly-
punched design that looks the part.
They’re lined from toe to heel
with soft leather —no canvas. Even
the tongue is lined, to prevent
folding and ensure greater comfort.
Trim-fitting at ankle and instep,
Abbey Golf Shoes do not cramp
the foot anywhere. They are cor-
rectly proportioned and notably
good-looking.
And, although stoutly made, they
are supple and light in weight-
giving a pleasant effect of springi-
ness.
The soles of tough crepe rubber
are sewn to strong leather with a
smart welt that continues around
the heel.
Abbey Golf Shoes cushion the
roughest track. Try a pair. They
are easy-fitting right from the start.
Order by Post
Abbey Golf Shoes are made in
half-sizes, with narrow, medium
and wide fittings for every half-
size, as illustrated, at 47/6 per
pair. Send your order and we will
forward the shoes by return post.
ABBEY
313 George Street and
224 Pitt Street, Sydney.
L. 3
4y
CASH’S
WASHABLE
RIBBONS
( Brocaded )
Ideal for Unaerie
IMPARTING a Charm of
Daintiness and Distinc-
tion-made of Guaranteed
Fast Washing Silks with
Pretty Brocaded Effedts in
Dainty Pastel Shades—
once threaded there’s no
need to remove for Wash-
ing. 1-in. width is largely
used for Shoulder Straps.
s QAsk Your draper
IF UNOBTAINABLE WRITE TO
J. & J. CASH PTY. LTD.
Cubitt St., Richmond
“THE WOMANS MIRROR,
PRICE
»
3d.
Contains everything a woman needs to know.
’ZSFZBgr jsjj
GLOBE
TIMBER MILLS C?
%ft FLINDERS ST ADELAIDE
TIMBER. , JOINERY,
GALVANIZED IRON
lowest- Prices, Highesh Qualify, Prompt* Service '
r r.
V-2
Genuine Baltic
AMBER
IS ALWAYS IN FASHION
INGE time immemorial Amber
has been favoured by Royalty*
No Queen of the East was
adorned without it. The Greehs and
Romans believed Amber to be magic-
al. The Chinese held it to be the
one stone worthy of being coloured
with the Blood of the Sacred Dragon.
For centuries all nations have con-
sidered that the wearing of Amber
brought good fortune and its magnetic
properties warded off illness.
This is very fashionable jor Ladies’ Necklet wear, and
is obtainable in the following:
,n cl AZl acM .. Aml . er -e7 /6 , «/-, « i,m/-, utth
1,1 mw-, wu/-. »/»/-
Stewart Dawson & Company
(N.S.AV.) Ltd.
Two Sydney /185-187 PITT STREET, near King Street.
Establishments 1 412 GEORGE STREET. Strand Corner.
a
(•
4»
9
V.
\v\
r
l
The Purity of
AMAMI
SHAMPOOS
is GUARANTEED by the
LONDON INSTITUTE of
HYGIENE.
Amami is the beauty shampoo in
almost universal use. Its purity
and efficacy are guaranteed by no
less an authority than the British
Institute of Hygiene. Blending 47
ingredients, and including the
special Lemon Juice Rinsing
Powder, Amami is the perfect
tonic-treatment for your hair.
dmmtinifM f
You can buy Amami at any Chemist’s,
Hairdresser’s or big Store. No. 1 for Dark
Hair, No. 5 for Fair Hair. 9d. each, com-
plete with Lemon Rinsing Powder.
0 SATISFYING SHAVES
IN ONE
RAZOR
THIS RAZOR and sharewith thousands of others the
rfort that shave after shave of satin smooth-
es brings to flsers of THE PLUH RAZOR-.
Presentation Case
roughout
LAusirJaj
to
v
Guaranteed fcKepT _
in order for two years free.
CRAIG & AMN.654 GEORGE ST.SYDN
£
VARIOVS VERSE
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The Cemetery Road.
Under the vague, blue arches of the sky,
Where seeding grasses grow pale-stalkeu
and high,
Hemmed in between their narrow stones, the
dead do lie.
Yr.d I could weep with pain that not one
knows
That summer hangs upon each briar a rose.
“O wake!” I cry. “O wake! You’ve had
too long repose!”
The wind comes wheeling, empty-armed, and
hot,
Speaking with whispers in that lonely spot.
'Be still! The dead have found a peace that
you have not!”
VICTORIA.
MYRA MORRIS.
The Minor Note.
1 have a little reed
Of one stop, two stops;
And, oh, the sorrow’s on it of faint rain-
drops !
I, who feel the strong surge of great deeds
and knightly,
Deeds that go with trumpets and banners
and loud drums,
Blow them upon my reed, and it answers
brightly
vVith scent of summer grasses where the
drugged bee hums.
1 have a little reed
Of one stop, two stops;
What knight or lady would pause to give it
heed?
If I had the grand word, the great word, the
true word
’Tis all the hearts of men would grow
mighty with my song.
But my frail reed has the note of a timid
bird,
And where’s the man or woman would be
thinking of it long?
I have a little reed
Of one stop, two stops;
And, oh, the sorrow’s on it of faint rain-
drops!
N.S.W.
NORA McAULIFFE.
Love’s Bondage.
Beside the worn, white banister
The pink rose faints for lack of rain—
Miraculous in this parched spot
That any rose should bloom again!
Red lilies, sprung from generous soil,
Defiant as my own full heart,
In one fierce leap of color from
The rough and splintered palings start.
How have they courage here to grow,
When hopes and crops all frustrate lie?
How make such brave and martial show?
I fear they do not crave, as I,
A distant spire; a landscape green ;
Blue hills rain-washed in opal eves;
Shadows of ships on moonlit sands:
Reefs that the king-tide loves and leaves!
No, scarlet pomp and pale-rose swoon
All Life’s enigmas may ignore;
But I, too, fade, and long to heed
The siren-singing at my door
Of Chance and Change and Heart’s
Desire !....
But should my restless feet now roam,
Here are blue eyes and small, brown hands
From farthest lands to draw me home!
QUEENSLAND.
E. M. ENGLAND.
I’ve Walked Abroad.
I’ve walked abroad in English lanes,
Beheld the meadowsweet,
The daffodils and hyacinths
That bloomed before my feet,
And heard above the snowy thorn
The soaring lark salute the morn.
I know the name of every flower
In coppice, field and hedge,
The marsh plants and the water-weeds
Beside the river’s edge.
And I have seen a sea of gold,
The yellow gorse upon the wold.
The English lanes are green and sweet,
And very fair to see.
I hold them treasured in my heart—
Yet what are they to me?
I know them but in dreams, and here
Are birds and blossoms doubly dear.
On plain and hill, by creek and swamp,
The grey-green bush among,
Are flowers of scent and symmetry
Unheeded and unsung,
And birds whose lilting melodies
Are little known beyond the seas.
The scrub is white with tea-tree bloom,
A glory in the sun;
These crimson petals that unfold
In secret places—seen by none
But me —have glowing hues no less
Than old-world flowers of loveliness.
And here within the forest aisles
And chantries redolent
Of gum and wattle surely dwells
One with the light and scent,
One with the beauty and the hush
Amid the purple bottle-brush,
The very spirit of the bush,
An immanence divine,
A hallowed presence that pervades
The forest heart and mine.
I know not how the wonder stole
Within my stilled and reverent soul.
But this I know —fo-r primrose bank
And hedge I would not change
This grey, untidy bush, the gums,
The rugged purple range, *
Nor these wild flowers that to my shame,
Although I love, I cannot name.
VICTOBIA.
ETHEL MARTYR.


9
MS
Mi■
II
mamMm
■HE..
ran
a
M
ilk
■wgiliHl
iWysamyß g Sljfeapl
■R
as/.


The Bulletin
Vol. 48—No. 2449.
January 20, 1927.
LOVERS OF LIBERTY, HAIL TO OUR NEW COMRADE!
“A message from Paris states that the Soviet Government has bought two guillotines.”— Cable.


The Bulletin
THE NATIONAL AUSTRALIAN NEWSPAPER
“Australia for the White Man.”
Printed and published by William Maci.eod, of
Musgrave and McLeod Streets, Mosman, for The
Bulletin Newspaper Co., Ltd., at the Office of the
Co., 214 George Street, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia.
Melhourne Office: 154-162 Flinders Street.
London Office: No. I Wardour Street (near Picca-
dilly Circus), W.l.
PUBLISHED ONCE A WEEK.
TERMS TO SUBSCRIBERS
(In Advance only).
Posted to any address in Australasia, weekly:
12 months, £1 )s.; 6 months, 12s. 6d.; 3 months, Is.
To any address Overseas: 12 months, £1 10s.; 6
months, 13s. Od.; S months, Bs.
Cheques, drafts, etc., which should be crossed, and
all Business Communications to be addressed to the
Manager.
Special Notice.
All correspondence to be addressed to Box 2521 8.8.,
G.P.0., Sydney.
Insufficiently stamped letters are liable to be
refused.
The contents of this paper are copyright by the
publishers. The right to reproduce or translate any
part of the contents of this number is hereby expressly
reserved by the publishers.
The Editor will carefully read and, where practic-
able, acknowledge in the “Correspondence” column
all contributions submitted, whether in the form of
Political. Social or other Articles, Verse, Short Tales
or Sketches (those dealing with Australian subjects
and not exceeding two columns in length, or, say,
3000 words, are specially acceptable), Paragraphs,
Letters or Newspaper Clippings. All communications
will be regarded as strictly confidential.
Tun Bulletin will return all unsuitable MS. when
the address is specified and stamps are enclosed. But
no MS. will be returned or preserved unless these
conditions are observed. When MS. is forwarded
without stamps for return it will be understood that
the copy is to be destroyed if not acceptable. Per-
sonal applications for return of MS. cannot receive
attention. Further. The Bulletin desires those
sending MS. to distinctly understand that it is not
responsible for the preservation or transmission of MS.
To Amateurs in Rlack and White.
Anyone supplying to The Bulletin original
humorous or other topical drawings in line or wash,
of sufficient merit and interest and adapted for
direct reproduction, or any interesting photograph
illustrative of a current event will be paid for same
on acceptance. Any picture containing a good idea
but unfitted for direct reproduction —i.c., any picture
which has to be re-drawn —will be paid for as a
suggestion only. The conditions under which such
artistic contributions will be received are those
applying to M.S.
To Travellers Abroad.
“The Bulletin's” representative in tiondon is
L. St. C. Grondona. No. 1 Wardour Street
(near Piccadilly Circus). W.l. Copies of
‘The Bulletin” can lie obtained from him or
the_i>ookstall in the Main Hall at Australia
House. Also from Messrs. Gordon and Gotch, 15-
78 Faningdon Street, London, E.C.lt.; and W. Paw-
son and Sons, Cannon House, Breams Buildings,
London, E.C.). ; E. T. Hole, Ilolerth Satire Ser-
vice, 1/6 Fleet Street, London E.C.; “The British
Australian and Neiv Zealander,” )1)-Ti Australia
House, Strand, London, W.C.2; F. Algar, 5S Grace-
church Street, London, E.C.3.
South Africa. —The Central News Agency, Cape-
town, Durban and Johannesburg; Dawson and Son,
Capetown and Johannesburg; Havana House, Durban;
lihodesia News Agency, Salisbury; Benoni News
Agency, Benoni; Handel House, Kimberley; and
others.
Canada. — G. S. Forsyth and Co., hht Hastings
Street, Vancouver, B.C.
U.S.A.— Chicago: J. Roland Kay Co., 161 East
Erie Street, N. Michigan Boulevarde; Post Office
News Co., 33 West Monroe Street, Chicago. New
York: Brentano’s, stli Avenue and 21th Street, New
York City: Schultz News Agency. S.E. Corner 6th
Avenue and lf2nd Street, New York City; Ilotaling’s
News Agency, 203 West 1/lst Street, New York City.
Washington: Liberty News Co., Seattle, Washington;
Wheatley News Co., 10) Market Street, San Francisco;
Wallace, The New Orleans News Man. 105 Royal
Street, New Orleans, La. ; The Wide World News Stand,
5)1) South Main Street, Los Angeles, Cal.
Egypt. — Jacques. Horn and Co., the Colonial
Book and News Stores. Port Said, Egypt.
llong Kong. —Brewer and Co., 696 Pedder Street,
Hong Kong.
China.— Brewer and Co., 31. Nanking Road.
Shanghai, China.
Ceylon. — T. L. De Silva, 39 Chatham Street,
Colombo.
Papua. —Whitten Bros., Samarai and Port Moresby.
Fiji. — A. Barker. Suva: Harry Gardiner, Metropole
Hairdressing Saloon. Suva.
Overseas Advertising: Representatives.
London. — L. St. C. Grondona. No. 1 Wardour
Street (near Piccadilly Circus), IV. 1.; Gordon and
Gotch. 15-19 Faningdon Street. London, E.C.).
IT.S.A.— J. Roland Kay Co.. 161 East Erie Street,
N. Michigan Boulevarde. Chicago.
Postage Rates.
Single copies of The Bulletin (registered as a
newspaper) : — Commonwealth, New Zealand and Fiji:
100-., Ul. United Kingdom: )oz. to Kloz., lid.; each
additional .)<>.?., Id. All Sea Route: 160 z., lid.
British Possessions and U.S.A.: )oz. or part thereof,
Id. Elsewhere. 20z.. Id -
%r%xdleiza.
THURSDAY, JANUARY 20, 1927.
TRADE UNIONS AND FRIENDLY
SOCIETIES.
Membership of trade unions is compulsory
for wage-earners in N. S. Wales; generally
speaking, a man has to join a union or he
can’t get a job. Membership of friendly
societies is, of course, voluntary. One would
therefore expect the unions to have two or
three times as many names on their books
as the friendly societies; but the report of
the Government Registrar proves that this
is far from being the case. The latest figures
the Registrar could collect show that there
were 250,915 members of unions (223,928
males) on December 31, 1924, and 226.576
members of friendly societies (209.098
males) on June 30, 1925. And the official
points out that the union total, though
“apparently” 250,915, is really “somewhat
less, as men sometimes belong to more than
one union.” No doubt the adult male mem-
bers of friendly societies are, in most cases,
unionists as well. And those who are get
a much better return from their voluntary
organisations, as far as direct financial bene-
fits go, than they do from the bodies to which
they are compelled to belong, whether they
believe in unionism or not.
* * * *
At the end of 1924 the unions (250.915
members) had funds amounting to £262,559,
or £1 os. lid. per head. At the end of 1924-
25 the friendly societies (226.576 members)
had funds amounting to £3.093,216, or £l3
13s. per head. In contributions (£381,324)
and “other receipts” the 250,915 unionists
shelled out £416,620 and got back £152,809
in “benefits.” one union, the Northern Col-
liery Employees, drawing £115,231 in bene-
fit money, evidently to finance strikes. Of
177 unions enumerated, the members of 108
received no “benefits” whatever. On the
other hand, the 226,576 lodge members paid
£732,194 in contributions and fees and col-
lected £601,673 (£2 17s. 6d. per adult mem-
ber) in benefits —£249,915 in sick pay,
£288,456 in medical attendance and medi-
cine and £63,302 in funeral donations.
Expenses of management were kept down to
£145,634, although the receipts, including
interest (£160,801), reached £945.568; the
amount paid in salaries and personal
expenses was equal to 7&10d. per head of mean
membership. By contrast, expenses of manage-
ment accounted for £235.058 of the £416.620
extracted from the 250,915 unionists. The
printing-trade organisations, with 5618 mem-
bers, had £23,567 to their credit, after spend-
ing £1726 in benefits. This shows that there
is no good reason why a union with a numer-
ous membership in steady jobs should not
be solidly financial. On the other hand, the
Clerks’ Union had 2706 members and a bank
balance of £49; the shop assistants, 4783
members and £127; the public-service em-
ployees, 2859 and £392; the meat-workers,
5315 and £259 ; and the N. S. Wales branch
of the Australian Railways Union, 10,885
and £413. In none of these cases was there
any expenditure on benefits, except £7
proudly recorded by the clerks.
The administrative staffs of the friendly
societies do a great deal of good which never
sees the light of print, for no newspaper
glory awaits them. Men like the State presi-
dent and State secretary of the M.U.1.0.0.F'.,
which has more than twice as many mem-
bers as the biggest N. S. Wales union and
more than four times as much money as all
the N. S. Wales unions put together, are un-
known to the general body of newspaper read-
ers, although imported wreckers like Garden,
the Moscow pilgrim, and the Dutch ship’s fire-
man Joiianson, or Johnson, have been
taken from their obscurity by the Sydney
dailies and made public characters. The
friendly societies work under an Act of Par-
liament which insists, among other things,
on annual audits, periodical Government in-
spections of books and valuations of liabili-
ties and assets, and reference to the Regis-
trar of disputes between individual members
and the lodge. There is no corresponding
system of safeguards in the case of the
unions. Though the Government forces men
to join these organisations, it doesn’t exert
itself to see that their money is wisely, or
even legally, expended. There is a great
deal lacking, in many instances, in the
returns furnished under the Trade Union
Act, and if no returns are furnished no tiling
ever happens to the offending parties.
* * * *
An impression exists that a lot more
money than is shown in the statements
supplied for official consumption is dragged
from the members of certain militant
and certain political unions, but the
Labor Government asks no questions. And
it is the kind of Government that would
burst into hoarse laughter if it were re-
quested to amend the Act in the direction of
(1) obliging union executives to spend a
specific proportion of their revenues in reliev-
ing the necessities of sick and unemployed
members and families deprived of their
breadwinners, and the like; and (2) giving
individual members a right of appeal to the
Registrar against arbitrary exactions and
savage sentences of expulsion. In effect, the
Government says to the union bosses: “Here
is the means of forcing every wage-earner,
however unwilling, and as many salary-
earners as we can reach, into your unions—
charge them as much as you can extort in
the interests of ‘the movement,’ and do what
you like with the money (also in the inter-
ests of ‘the movement’) so long as you don’t
actually steal it.” Not all union bosses are
prepared to act in that spirit. Unions like
the boot-trade employees, the carpenters
and joiners, the tramway employees, the gas-
men and the school-teachers are steady-going
and solid, like the printers. But for those
who are not of their type there is no place
like N. S. Wales. For union bosses who
practise the worst lessons of the Tammany
school the Ma State is an earthly paradise.
LABOR’S RECORD IN SOUTH AUS.
Lionel L. Hill, who succeeded John Gunn
as leader of the S. Aus. Labor Government,
is reported to be preparing a “fighting”
policy for the State general election, which
is to take place on March 26. If the policy
proves to have any fight in it South Aus-
tralia will be surprised, for the Government
has given no evidence of pugnacity during
its three years on the Treasury benches. The
Leg. Council tested it very early in the piece,
and found it quite tame. Having satisfied
itself on that score, the Second Chamber
rejected, or mangled, dozens of the Ministry’s
measures, which were introduced at the rate
of about a hundred per session, with a bold-
ness which it would never have shown had
a Kingston, or even a Price, been Premier.
It even threw out a bill conferring the Leg.
Council franchise on the wives of house-
holders—a blameless Liberal measure if ever
there was one—having previously trampled
on a proposal for adult suffrage. But the
Government could never be baited into active
hostility. On no occasion did it threaten
to go to the country—it did not even take
advantage of the deadlock provisions in the
Constitution, though challenged to do so more
than once, or seek to strengthen its hands
by means of a referendum. In its relations
with the Second Chamber it is certainly the
most lamb-like Administration that South
Aus. has ever had.
* * * *
In other respects the Government has dis-
appointed those of its supporters who
thought it would emulate the Theodores
and Langs. It has not given them the 44-
hour week. Neither has it started a flock
of State enterprises—cattle-runs, canneries
and the like —for “comrades” who find the
competitive system too onerous. It might
have obliged in both directions had the
finances permitted, but the finances never
have permitted. The position in that respect
was pretty bad when Gunn and Hill took
office, the Barwell crowd having spent loan
money like water, and it has grown a lot
worse. Before Gunn quitted the Premier-
ship for his job on the Migration Commis-
sion, he announced that 1925-26 had closed
with a credit balance of £13,151. In his
Budget speech Hill admitted that payment
of railway accounts amounting to £295.992
had been postponed, so there was really a
deficit of £282,841. He also admitted that
the railway rehabilitation programme
launched by the Barwells and continued by
his own side was costing a lot more than
the estimate (£4,500,000), that the public
debt had reached £79,251,332 on June 30,
1926 (it was £70,016,829 on June 30, 1924,
when his Government had been a couple of
months in office, and £39,364,280 on June
30, 1917), and that a large and growing
proportion of the revenue from taxation was
required for interest on “works” which were
“not fully productive,” and others which
were not productive at all. He concluded
by saying that there would be a 10 p.c.
super-tax on existing income-tax rates, and
that the land-tax would go up “50 per cent,
all round,” loan expenditure on “works”
which will be burdens on the tax-revenue
to be continued, of course. With the aid of
the new taxes a surplus of £5OOO was pro-
mised. but when half the financial year had
gone there was a deficit of £1,555,000, which
was £7( >7.000 worse than the position at the
coresponding period of 1925-26. As a finan-
cial prophet Hill is apparently in the same
class as the egregious Lang, but the elec-
tion will be over before the year’s accounts
are made up; and, in any case, deficits,
actual or probable, won’t influence the aver-
age elector for or against a party until the
loan money gives out. And it hasn’t given
out yet.
* * * *
The S. Aus. Assembly is divided into 46
seats. In the last Parliament 26 seats were
held by Laborites, 18 by Liberals and two-
by Cockies. If the Libs, and Cockies had
an agreement of the Bruce-Page variety
they could beat the Ministerial party easily.
As it happens, they are wrangling, as they
did in 1924, and if they keep on wrangling
the Government will scrape back. In a
divided Opposition lies Hill’s only hope.
His Government excites no enthusiasm in
any quarter; even unionists “speak disparag-
ingly of it,” a Worker writer admits, “and
say any other Government would be as
good.” All the same, the Administration
has an exalted opinion of its own merits.
Replying to an interjector at a meeting of
unemployed—notwithstanding the vast loan
expenditure, there are more unemployed in
the State this summer than there have been
for many summers —its leader claimed that
“its record stood higher and better than
that of any other Ministry since the estab-
lishment of responsible government.” If
that is true, the present crowd’s predecessors
will need a lot of praying for. Especially
those- who share with it the disgrace of
having doubled the State debt in nine years,
with nothing to show for the money in the
way of profit-earning enterprises and not a
sou of war expenditure to meet.
A PROPOSED NEW YEAR
REVOLUTION.
Mi.. De Valera, the irresponsible half-Span-
ish Irish gentleman who was born in New
York, apparently did liis best to present Ire-
land with a revolution for a Christmas-box,
and the gift may be only delayed. There is
always a sporting chance of something revolv-
ing in the Irish Free State. The Govern-
ment at Dublin, anyhow, took the situation
serious! and proclaimed a “state of emer-
gency,” which reads like a watered-down
form of martial law. The offices of republi-
can newspapers (number uncertain and un-
specified ) were searched and the current
issues seized, and it was all mildly suggestive
of the olden times, when George 111. was
king and Britons arc said to have set the
world ablaze. In the midst of the excite-
ment De Valera went under an assumed
name to Glasgow, which is largely Irish
itself, and preached a bit of gospel there.
The gospel was the customary one, that
Ireland must be an independent republic,
which it never was before, and re-assert its
absolute unity, about which there has always
existed a doubt. There certainly were some
kings of all Ireland, but the periods of unity
combined with independence seem to have
been very fitful. A time is on record when
the Piets lived in Scotland and the Scots
(Scoti) in Ireland. In fact, the early Scots
have been described as Irish bushrangers
from Spain. Their coming from Spain, or
from somewhere further off via Spain, is a
persistent old legend. What these arrivals
did to the earlier population is uncertain,
but it was doubtless something unpleasant.
History doesn’t represent these Irish Scots
as a people who kept to themselves and
minded their own affairs.
When the Piets and Scots began to harry the
splendid but insufficiently-defended civilisa-
tion of Romanised Britain the inhabitants
there regarded them frankly as savages.
When the Jutes, Saxons and Angles arrived
from another point of the compass on a
similar errand the people who spoke Latin
and tried to hang on to their Italian civilisa-
tion viewed them in a similar light. This
mixed and retrograde crowd made a great
destruction of culture and Christianity in old
Britain, and if the Continental tribes ulti-
mately annexed practically all the profit it
wasn’t because they were the first and least
scrupulous marauders, but because they
were the more capable ones.
Being still restless and quite unable to leave
their neighbors alone, a quantity of armed
men from Ireland ferried themselves over
to Scotland (or what was to be Scotland)
about the end of the fifth century and stole
an area of land on which they founded the
kingdom of Dalriada. It was the second
place of the name, there being already one in
Ireland. The fate of the earlier owners is
a mystery. Naturally the invaders got into
holts with their old accomplices, the Piets.
What exactly happened to the Piets is un-
certain, but it must have been something dis-
agreeable, for they made a very complete
disappearance. Domiciles or cellars vaguely
described _as “Piets’ houses” remain, but
there isn’t an authentic Piet boiling his
frugal meal in one of them. The extended
Scot settlement spread in a general way
over the regions north of the Forth and
Clyde, and the inhabitants were divided into
clans or septs which scrapped vigorously
among themselves, spoke Gaelic, and con-
tributed very little, if anything at all, to
the culture of the later and enlarged king-
dom of Scotland. This enlarged kingdom
was old Irish as regards the upper end and
Saxon-Norman lower down.
It is related, though without much detail,
that when the Norman conquest of England
was in progress an Irish army went across
to take stock of the situation, possibly to see
if there was room for a bustling race to take
a hand. The theory has been advanced that
the Normans made a note of the visit.
A casual old record has it that Bristol
which once filled a much bigger place in
English life than it does now, made its
original fortune by exporting slaves to
Ireland. In these times a Gaelic gentleman
avoided personal and horny-handed toil to
the best of his ability, which was consider-
able.
The difficulty created by the existence of
a small dominion in the north-east of Ire-
land which stands aloof from the Free
State arises chiefly from the fact that a
number of Scotch Scots returned, in the
sixteenth and seventeenth centuries, the
visit which the Irish Scots had paid to Scot-
land (which wasn’t Scotland then) in the
fifth and sixth. And while the Irish Scots
made themselves very much at home at Dal-
riada, in Scotland, the Scotch Scots did the
same at what used to be Dalriada in
Ireland. This was a coincidence as well as
an exchange.
When the Scottish sceptre passed from
the Irish Scots (imp.) to the Saxon-Nor-
man Scots (imp.) the latter made no dis-
guise of the fact that they regarded the
former as savages, or, as one legal definition
put it, “clans of thieves, for the most part
companies of wicked men, coupled in wicked-
ness by occasion of their surnames or near
dwelling together, or through keeping society
in theft or receipt of theft.” Apart from
meetings for purposes of bloodshed, there
was little intermixture of the races till
comparatively recent times. In Ireland
there was less aloofness, but the incivility
and the opinion which one crowd had of
the other were very similar. It was much
the same as that expressed by Mommsen,
the historian, when he said that the Celt
was a good soldier but a bad citizen who
had “convulsed all States but founded none.”
If the historical happenings above out-
lined have driven De Valera (imp.), a
half-Celtic gentleman from New York, to
the point of a New Year’s revolution, I sup-
pose it may be urged that they are con-
fused enough to drive almost anybody to
something. Still his attitude isn’t logical.
He seems to be a bad winner, inasmuch as
his mother’s race has won a lot and he is
wild : also a b id loser, because it has missed
winning a trifle, for the time, at least, and
is, therefore, wilder.
GRIPFITH MOSES.
PLAIN ENGLISH.
Twenty-seven Visits to the Pawnshop.
Henry Braddon, Australian head
of D algety and Co., just back from mixing
in the financial society of London, has said
that on several occasions “he asked the ques-
tion in England why they were so uneasy
about N. S. Wales” —not “if” they were un-
easy, but “why,” the feeling being obvious.
The financial magnate returned bearing with
him a document of serious portent. It set
forth how often ten Governments within
the Empire (seven States and three Con-
federations) had turned up in the outside
loan market within 15 years, and the
amounts they had gone there for, including,
of course, some renewals. The result was
that N. S. Wales had appeared oftenest,
having 27 visits or convictions to its dis-
credit, the next worse case being the Aus-
tralian Commonwealth with 13. The Ma
State also asked for the biggest amount
(£117,919,000), the next largest record being
the Australian Commonwealth again, with a
request for £71,250,000. Third on the list was
the Union of South Africa, which borrowed
£53,340,000, but that included the Central
Government’s borrowings both for war and
for peace purposes, and also the loans of the
States, for the Central Authority raises the
wind on their behalf when necessary. When
all Australia and Tasmania were added up,
their public appearances in 15 years num-
bered 79, which was pretty often, and the
amount asked for amounted to £318,899,999,
which was pretty large, even though a fair
proportion was for renewal of previous loans.
The renewal business was an unpleasant
reminder of the lack of sinking funds to
meet obligations on pay-day, and an inti-
mation that J. Bull had a very slim chance
to get his money when it fell due, unless he
was able and willing to lend the whole sum
necessary to pay himself. The fact that in
Australia most, but not all, of the railways
are national property is less reassuring than
it seems. Many other indebted, but not near
so heavily indebted, States own their rail-
ways, and most of them present a uniformity
of gauge which is grievously lacking here.
Then, as if the situation wasn't bad enough
before, it began to take on a new aspect
about 1920. It is shown by official statistics
(Australian statistics) that J. Bull is now
called on to lend a part, and sometimes the
whole, of the money with which to pay
himself his interest as well as the
amount required to repay himself his
principal on maturity, and that isn’t
cheering news. A very big reduction of im-
ports would mend the situation, but nobody
tackles the problem. Braddon, M.L.G..
made the flat statement that the credit of
N. S. Wales is worse even than that of
Westralia, though the latter has the largest
debt per head; and because Westralia
has a sinking fund of ten million* with which
to face loan-renewal day, while N. S.
Wales has barely three-quarters of a mil-
lion. Certainly N. S. Wales was paying,
when stock was taken last, a higher rate of
interest than any other State, S. Australia


only excepted. And now, when the raisin-,
of even small sums in real money is difficult,
the uncouth amateurs in office have inaugu-
rated a debauch, and have published speeffi-
cations of more debauch.
*
Victoria Starts Another Sinking Fund.
The natural desire to do a little good in a
small way, all its ways being small, .induced
the Allancock Government to provide vic-
toria with some new sinking-fund arrange-
ments before it took its undignified way into
recess and prepared to appear before its
makers. The proceeding lacked the cliaim
of novelty, for the State had at least nine
baby sinking funds already, lliey were or
various shapes and sizes. One law, dated
1923, enacted that surplus railway revenue,
when there was any, should be used to reduce
the railway debt. This was well meant but
precarious. Another (1922) decreed that
2 per cent, per annum should be set aside in
reduction of the debt incurred for certain
unproductive works such as schools, gaols
and lunatic asylums, and 10 per cent, m
reduction of the debt on tourist resorts.
Thanks to these and other pottering
endeavors, the Victorian sinking funds m the
bulk increased by £1,330,256 in three
while the debt increased by £19,348,366. rhe
whole accumulation is quite a brilliant
affair by Australian standards, being a matter
of four millions trying to pay off 128 mil-
lions. The new arrangement of the Allan-
cock Government is that ss. per £lOO and
2s. 6d. per £lOO shall be set aside annually
for repayment of railway and waterworks
loans respectively, and it is reckoned that,
by abolishing some of the present casual con-
tributions to make way for these fixed con-
tributions, no extra burden will be laid on
the taxpayers, and the repayment of the
public debt won’t be accelerated, excessive
speed being abhorrent. Something approach-
ing a century is the time fixed for clearing
off existing railway and waterworks liabili-
ties. But if borrowing continues the ques-
tion resolves itself into this: Suppose a
boy on a “scooter” chases a moving train for
a century, how much nearer will the boy be
to the train at the end of that time? In
addition, what are the chances of the boy
giving up the chase in disgust?
#
Proposed “Stern Action” in the West.
A violent and ungrateful, or it may be only
a misguided, man is Patrick Joseph Lynch,
a Senator for Westralia. In a passionate
tirade at Perth he declared that Westralia
has been cruelly debased to the position of
a “tributary” member of the Commonwealth,
and said that, “unless there was a more
friendly attitude towards the undeveloped
third of Australia on the part of the Fed-
eral authority, any act short of open rebel-
lion or open disruption would be fully justi-
fied.” Pie added that it was impossible to
continue “as a vassal of the eastern people,”
and advocated “stern action—something that
would make the eastern people take notice.”
But as refusal to pay Federal taxes, especi-
ally if it included seizure of the Federal tax-
ing departments, would constitute open rebel-
lion, and as secession would do the same,
and as P. J. Lynch says lie stops short of
both these measures, though he may not
always stop short, there isn’t much “stern
action” left available. In fact there seems
to be none save bushranging or midnight
burning of houses, and the Senator is re-
garded as incapable of either crime. The
great Westralian grievance is hard to define,
and the Lynches throw no steady light on
it. The State has its full share of Parlia-
mentary representation —more than it is
entitled to on a population basis. Its alleged
sufferings under the tariff can’t be taken
seriously until it decides what they are. The
common story is that W.A. is flooded with
goods from the Eastern States because there
is inter-State Freetrade, and at the same
time it sends to Parliament a crowd of back
numbers who demand all-round Freetrade,
so that their country may be flooded by all
and sundry. Then Westralia has been an
indomitable and amazingly fortunate collec-
tor of “tribute” or doles from its neighbors,
and has contrived to be on the gratuity-list
in one way and another almost since the
Commonwealth’s beginnings. However much it
got its politicians never failed to ask for more.
If the big State removed out of the Common-
wealth and forgot to take its share of the
Federal debt (about £73 per inhabitant)
with it, as seceding States often do, that
might look like an advantage, and then it
would be in a position to start a note issue
of its own, which might be profitable, or
again it might not. But when the doles
stopped and the Commonwealth ceased to
put its name on the back of Westralia’s I OF,
that would be something on the other side.
It is quite possible that if P. J. Lynch
looked into the depths of his large, inco-
herent and really generous soul, he would
be surprised to find that his anger arises
from something that happened, or was sup-
posed to have happened, to Michael, his
father, in County Meath, a very long time ago.
New Guinea Administration.
It is rumored that the Administrator of New
Guinea, now on his way south, is to reply
to a report from an undefined source that
a machine-gun was fired in the recent Gov-
ernment expedition against the natives whe
murdered a party of white prospectors. The
Minister for Home and Territories, General
Glasgow, gave orders that the m.-g. was not
to be used save in the last extremity of self-
defence. That he permitted the taking of
the thing, or that New Guinea officials
desired it, is to be regretted. It suggests
lamentable ignorance of the requirements of
such an expedition. The body of whites
and native police numbered nearly 100 with-
out carriers; it marched a few miles in-
land, occasionally spotting a derisive native
capering on a distant hilltop. then
marched back again and re-shipped in an
aura of martial glory and expense. Papua
has tackled 50 far more dangerous jobs with
one white official and 25 native police at
the most. But Papuan officialdom has
always had authority to use forthright
methods in dangerous situations. Sir
William Macgregor laid it down that the
levelling of spears, the shooting of an arrow
or an onward rush of club-men, after due
warning, justified the use of force. This has
been much modified in later years, as Gov-
ernment prestige spread, but the old mem-
ories remain to back up the methods of
milder days. In New Guinea matters are on
a very different footing. The murders in
New Britain have been followed by the kill-
ing of native carriers on the goldfields road,
and villagers have been openly defying and
threatening with arms white miners escort-
ing their boys to the field from Salamoa.
The only Government action has been the
arrest of some of the offending natives, most
of whom have escaped, while further mur-
ders of carriers have taken place. The
situation is a most unfortunate one of its
kind. To blame the New Guinea officials
for permitting it to develop would, however,
be unfair. The situation lias been forced
on them by the bureaucrats of Melbourne.
They iii turn have been impelled by their
anxiety to administer Australia’s mandate
in New Guinea in such a way as to give the
least opportunity to eager overseas detractors
to run hotfoot to a sympathetic Mandates
Committee with a tale of bloodshed and
oppression. If, however, the Federal Gov-
ernment made up its mind to risk annoying
the Mandates Committee it would probably
command more respect from that body than
it seems to do at present. One thing is cer-
tain. To carpet officials because a solitary
member of a tribe of murderers was acci-
dentally killed by “covering fire” in a remote
jungle, while permitting the evil conditions
on the New Guinea goldfields to continue, is
to bring the Administration into contempt.
v
Why Smith Leaves Home.
Dear Bulletin, —Much has been said in
doleful vein about the drift from the country
to the city, and the love of pleasure, bright
lights and hustle has been blamed for it. But
the problem may be purely an economic one.
Country-dwellers are divided in the main
into property-holders, small tradesmen and
rural workers. By property-holders is not
necessarily meant property-owners. Time
was when a thrifty land-holder, blessed with
average seasons, could view with hope the
periodical reduction of his overdraft, the
payment of his store bill, and the perceptible
approach to his toil-worn hands of the free-
hold title-deeds to the land he tilled. But
that was in the days of cheaper land-values
and lower cost of living. To-day he is too
often content to hope hazily for eventual
relief before his working days are over. Small
wonder, then, that he refuses to glance at
the spectre of Mortgage that sits grinning
beside him as he drives his new unpaid-for
motor-car into the country town. Some lucky
few start free from debt on a generous
living area, and make a do of it. They are
the men with initial capital. But too many,
setting out with little else but a stout heart
and a strong arm to move a mountain of
debt, never get out of the shadow of the
mountain until they sky the towel and go
citywards to drive a lorry. Enters then into
residence on the “improved”—and hence dearer
—property, victim No. 2; and once more the
grind goes on. In days gone by the venture-
some settler had at least this advantage—he
knew the amount of his obligations. But
now, while his head is in the clouds of too
high finance, his feet are in the quicksands
of the rural cost of living. “London parity”
is a term that has made many a primary pro-
ducer blink when he had something to sell.
Nowadays in N. S. Wales “Sydney parity”
has been added when he has to buy some-
thing. Locally-grown products are sold at
prices based on the distant Sydney marker.
Even petty vendors consult the metropolitan
quotations before knocking at one’s back door
with a peck of peas grown over the road.
The bigger stores in some country towns go
one better, and charge prices which make
the city quotations for identical articles look
like bargain-sale figures. On a £lO grocery
order which a neighbor procured from the
city the saving on jam alone compared with
the local quotation paid the freight on the
consignment. The inapplicability of the
“Fair Rent” law to country towns makes the
lot of the tenant extremely hard. My enter-
prising friend pays £2 ss. per week for a
four-roomed weatherboard cottage jerry-
built out of second-hand material. He lias
to. The internal decorations of his mansion
are illuminated by gas at Us. 3d. per 1000 ft.
The “own-your-own-liome” enthusiast is de-
barred from this independence by the pro-
hibitive tenders submitted by the local
builders. It is a slander to say that the dis-
gruntled ones drift citywards because they
are afraid of hard w r ork, and worship
pleasure. Most of them go (second-class) to
the eitv and dead-end occupations because
unduly high prices, bleeding rents and un-
liftable mortgages have well-nigh if not quite
bankrupted them. What are we going to do
about it?-—Yours, etc., S.N.R.
♦
An Epistle to the Carinthians.
A covey of full-fledged and half-fledged
American millionaires, making a world-tour
on a marine palace, have given a few hours
to Australian cities. They have seen through
the windows of taxi-cabs what we have to
display, and are apparently dissatisfied at
their welcome. What they expected is difficult
to conceive. “It is the stinging ridicule that
we resent,” said one lady passenger. “What-
ever the feeling towards Americans may be,”
she continued, “I think there should be a
change of sentiment when we come as visi-
tors.” Apparently the only lack of courtesy
was on the part of the press, and its sin
was that of “disrespect and ridicule.” But
—though this, of course, is no war-
rant for personal discourtesy—is America
so deaf and so blind as not to know
that she has since 1920 been steadily losing
the high respect she had previously won?
When the millionaires set foot in Australia
they were in a land whose people, a small
population with comparatively little wealth,
had made their utmost contribution of lives
and money to a war the loss of which would
have made the United States an easy prey
to the Germans. They stepped into the
ranks from the first. They saw America
delay till her money-chests were filled with
dollars coined out of munitions, saw her even
hesitate when Germany treated her with
scarcely-veiled contempt on the highway of
the sea. But at last she came in, and all
seemed well again. But all was not well.
With the close of . the war President
Wilson came forward with the pro-
posals which touched with a glow of enthusi-
asm the millions of hearts bleeding for
the loss of husbands and sons: there was to
be no more war. The noble conception of
a League of Nations to preserve the world’s
peace was formulated. During those two
years, in which the constitution of the
League and the terms of the Treaty of Ver-
sailles were decided, America stood high
in the respect of all English-speaking people.
She was regarded, in a sense, as the coming
saviour of the world. Her President for
the time being lifted mankind into a high
moral plane. He and his colleagues talked
like angels. Then, in 1920, the American
nation, by an overwhelming vote, repudi-
ated the whole business. It refused to be
enrolled in the League of its own President’s
creation. It withdrew into its national isola-
tion, refusing to accept any responsibility for
righting the chaos of Europe created by the
war. As to the outside world, let it stew in
its own juice! America was concerned only
with herself. Then she reminded the broken
nations that they were her debtors, and she sent
in her bills. Great Britain paid; all the con-
cession she asked for was time. For 62
years she will go on taxing herself
to rid herself of the debt. Every
year about 38 million pounds will have
to be found for America. Every year
in Australia in our day and our child-
ren’s day the interest on our war debts
will have to be paid, and something put into
the sinking fund. Every nation but America
has been impoverished and plunged in debt
over the Great War —she only profited and
stands apart. What did these visitors from
the Carintliia expect? Joybells ringing and
carpets laid for their feet?
<2>
British Interests in China.
“Feng-Shui” : Several years ago in the
Chinese portion of Hankow I saw Chinese
under Jap supervision laying the foundations
of a modern fort, and, in telling The Bul-
letin about it, I pointed out the precarious
situation of the British settlement below it,
660 miles up the Yang-tse, should those guns
ever be turned its way. The other day the
white authorities of the Shanghai foreign
settlement issued a warning to their million
white and yellow charges not to be alarmed
if they heard heavy firing—-it would only
be the trial of a big gun manufactured in
the arsenal on Chinese territory adjacent.
That gun is at present in the hands of a
general who finds it temporarily convenient
to be friendly to Europeans. I have visited
the concessions at Wuliu and Kiukiang. They,
too, are mere nicks out of Chinese cities and
are strategically unsound. There are no less
than 35 of these settlements and concessions,
many of them acquired after the Boxer busi-
ness, when a temporary coalition of Euro-
pean Powers defeated a native movement
largely armed with bows and arrows. Only
an army could defend them against a modern
army, and the Chinese armies are now com-
paratively modern. From time to time I
have pointed out in The Bulletin the risks
(largely falling on women and children) in-
curred by an imperialism advancing too far
from its base and not properly securing its
rear. I have also tried to calculate the
strength of the forces mounting up against
it, and to describe the foreign actions which
help to make those forces more uncontrollable
year by year. For these serious warnings,
many of them written on the spot, apparently
I have incurred the disapproval (B. 6/l/’27)
of one “Griffith Moses.” This “Moses”
quotes China’s seizure of Mongolia and
Japan’s grabbing of parts of China in the
long ago as justification for the British
retention of Hong Kong. Such levity in the
face of the present serious threat to British
prestige in Asia is of no use to anybody.
Japan has given up, with the return of Shan-
tung, the attempt to coerce 400 millions; and
Britain’s position is now the most vulner-
able in China. That the new British Minis-
ter to that country is aware of this is shown
by his endeavors to reach an honorable com-
promise with the triumphant Cantonese. It
is certain that the compromise will not in-
clude the handing over of Hong Kong, which,
incidentally, I did not suggest should be
handed over; but it may be that the system
of foreign tutelage in China will be consider-
ably modified, if a stable Government emerges.
If it does not and the Powers take advan-
tage of present weakness to enlarge their
privileges, the deluge will only be postponed.
These things apparently don’t matter to
“Griffith Moses,” and lie throws the
catchword “anti-European” at those to whom
they do matter. It would be interesting, by
the way, to know how he would practise
“Europeanism” in China to-day. Would he
applaud Italians for their benevolent neu-
trality towards an anti-British faction,
Americans for standing by while Chinese
seize the Customs revenue which is Britain’s
only security on her loans, or French for
looking on while British sailors are shot down
b, Chinese soldiers? The fact is, unfor-
tunately, that “G.M.’s” Europeanism is a
sentimental fiction, and to build on it would
be a dangerous folly.
*
Tropical Industries in North Queensland.
Dear Bulletin, —My remarks on the possi-
bility of successfully growing cacao-beans on
the coastal scrub lands of N.Q. (B. 9/12/’26)
seem to have angered “Myall.” Notwith-
standing anything that that correspondent
has to say to the contrary, when I visited
Kamerunga in (I think) 1912 with Howard
Newport, the officer in charge, I saw trees
bearing a good crop of well-grown, market-
able pods, although the conditions at Kamer-
unga were deplorable; Mr. Newport’s con-
stant complaint was that he could not get
sufficient funds to pay for necessary labor.
As to yield per acre, the bulletin issued by
the Philippine Bureau of Agriculture states:
“In Surinam. .. .the average at maturity is
6|lb. In Mindanao there are reports of more
than 10 catties taken in one year from
a single tree (a catty equals 1.331 b.). As
there are well-authenticated} instances on
record of single trees yielding as much as
301 b., I am not prepared to discredit the
Mindanao report.” As regards the number
of trees per acre, the authority above quoted
says: “In rich soil the strong-growing Foras-
tero variety may be planted 3.7 metres apart
eacli way, or 745 trees per hectare, and on
lighter lands this, or the more dwarf-growing
forms of Griollo, may be set as close as three
metres, or rather more than 1000 trees to the
hectare.” The hectare equals 2.4711 acres.
This works out at about 270 trees of Foras-
tero or about 410 of Criollo per acre. Re-
ports from other sources agree in the main
with that of the Philippine Bureau. “Myall”
says that my reference to banana shades
amounts to little more than parading igno-
rance. Well, to quote my Philippine Bureau
report again : “The almost universal custom
is to plant, for temporary shelter, suckers of
fruiting bananas.... At present prices, the
four or five crops which may be secured from
the temporary shelter plants ought to meet
the expenses of the entire plantation until it
comes into bearing.” The labor difficulty is
the real obstacle to successfully cultivating
the cacao-bean; but this. I believe, will be
overcome by co-operative partnership.—•
Yours, etc.. W.P.D.
When the Soviet Ruled at Darwin.
“Carlsbrook, Jun.” : “Moricf.” notwith-
standing (B. 30/12/’26), I adhere to my
account of the “revolutionary disturbances”
at Darwin (B. 21/10/’26). “Morice,” on
his own showing, obtained his facts by talk-
ing to one of the rioters ; I was one of them,
although, as I shall show, it was not from
choice. I don’t dispute that the rabble were
cowed by one man, Dr. Gilruth, facing them
alone, and that they attacked him when he
turned his back. But as to other matters
“Morice” is inaccurate. To be precise, the
mob numbered 1084, not 150; and they were
counted as they passed through the gates
to the Darwin Oval, where their names were
taken. Among them were Vestey’s meat-
workers, the railway employees at the 24-
mile workshops, and the town, railway and
wharf workers. “Morice” says there were
two demonstrations. As a matter of fact,
there were four, the first two taking place,
as lie states, in front of Government House
and on the Darwin Oval. The third demon-
stration occurred in the Town Hall, at a
meeting convened by the Mayor, when the
letter from the recalcitrant Jack Tars
on 11.M.A.5. Encounter was read out.
and subsequently tested by removing the half-
burnt effigy of the Administrator over which
the sailors stood guard. After that the En-
counter, with Dr. Gilruth aboard, departed.
Messrs. Carey, Bevan and Evans were not
the subjects of the first three demonstrations.
Their turn came later when they were told
to pack up and leave by the first available
steamer ; they duly left on the Bambra. It'
“Morice” had said that there were only 150
willing participants in the demonstrations
against Dr. Gilruth, I would have agreed
with him. lie probably doesn’t know that even
some of Vestey’s heads were forced to par-
ticipate in the march on town. After tne
demonstrations, six meatworkers who didn’t
Standing for Judgment.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
To a shout of “Silence!” and rustle of silk,
Enter his Honor with dignified feet.
His smile, like his wig, suggests mildness of
milk
As he bows in front of his high-cushioned
seat.
Then someone announces, as all settle down,
"Standing for judgment, Smith against
Brown !”
It seems like a tableau all set for the stage:
Reporters on qui viva their stylographs
grip, , ...
And eagle-like poise o er a virginal page.
From his glass the great man takes a ten-
tative nip.
The silks and their juniors take part in the
“stunt,”
With “briefs to hear judgment” displayed
well in front.
“This case,” says the Judge, “took more
time than it ought”
(He gets this oft slowly to let it soak in),
“Though on both sides most capably argued
and fought”
(The Bar here suppresses the ghost of a
grin).
“The bones of contention are dried now and
bleached;
I congratulate all that finality’s reached.”
(“Finality” in the connection he quotes,
Has some, few reservations, but that’s by
the way.)
Then his Honor proceeds to read from his
notes
His convictions, beliefs and where doubts
led astray,
While reasons profound pour forth from his
lip,
With authority high we’re permitted to skip.
But reason and learning, however so pat,
Have limits; at last he gets down to boiled
fact.
The plaintiff gets this, the defendant does
that;
Appropriate damages thereon are tacked—
“ All subject to further decree of this Court;
The Master hereon will inquire and report.
“In chambers we’ll deal with reports and
advice
Of the Master, thus further informing our
minds.
There’ll be ‘leave to apply’ on points doubt-
ful or nice,
As precedent sanctions or artfulness finds;
But the cause lists are full, and all I can say
Is I’ll hear you again—on some future day.
“And this addendum I think would be wise:
If maturer reflection fresh doubts should
reveal,
Each party may move as counsel advise,
And proceedings be stayed to permit of
appeal;
The whole ground isn’t covered, but that is
enough.
And now as to costs, Mister Brief? Mister
Bluff ?
“Dear, dear! That seems matter of further
dispute;
Into chambers it also must stand as
referred.
You can argue it there, with costs in the suit.
I’ll decide it when all have most fully
been heard,
With anything else to my notice you bring;
But finality’s always the requisite thing.
This Court stands adjourned. Silence ! God
save the King!”
S.A.
BILL O’COSTS.


Mere words cannot express
their infinite superiority.
Army Club
lO for 9d. CIGARETTES 20 for 1/6
/» pure ribbed watermarked paper.
CAVANDERS Ltd., London (Est. 1775), Pioneers of Hygienic Cigarette Packing.
a
€
s
CORK-
TIPPED
or PLAIN
participate were haled before a tribunal, or
Soviet, and asked to give reasons. Four of
them gave explanations that were not
accepted as satisfactory, and they were
promptly blacklisted and hounded out of the
Territory. The other two (my dad was one
of them) pleaded illness and were “pardoned.”
Finally, I did not say that the Darwin dis-
turbance was the most serious outbreak that
ever afflicted Australia. What I did say was
that the mutiny on the Encounter was more
serious than that on 11.M.A.5. Una, which
formed the subject of a recent paragraph.
— : # ,
The Two Types.
“T. Jasper” : In Australia during recent
years two distinct types have been evolved.
In the city is found most of what is cos-
mopolitan in our constitution ; in the coun-
try most of wliat is original or distinctly
national. It is largely a matter of environ-
ment. The city of Sydney, for instance,
resembles in essentials a great American or
English city, but out-back Australia is like
nothing else on earth. The man who is
attracted to country life is, to begin with,
a rather different man from the one whom
city life entices, and he tends to become
infinitely differentiated as time goes on. A
comparison between the two psy-
chologies is interesting and illu-
minating. The city man is more
impressionable and less reflective
than his country cousin; he is
more versatile and less reliable;
lie is less conservative and more
parasitical, more gregarious and
more predatory. He is the more
interesting companion, but the
country man is the better mate.
The city man has the municipal
and Parliamentary authorities near
at hand, and he spends a lot of
time on their doorsteps; but the
country dweller must practise self-
help. Then there is a brotherhood
in the bush that is absent from
the city. Disasters such as fires,
droughts and floods are
frequent, and they are endured in
common and combated to some
extent in common. Thus a com-
radeship is engendered like to that
of brothers in arms. One finds the
relations between employer and
employee much more cordial in the
country than in the city. Per-
sonal contact may have something
to do with this. Old Woolbale
will know Bill, the shearer, well;
probably he shore with Bill’s
father in the ’nineties. And Bill
will declare that Woolbale is a
good, poor old blankard who had
a tough trot in the last drought.
Many a time have Bill and old
Woolbale boiled the billy together,
and yarned for hours in the shade
of the sleepy old gums. Industrial
strife is never very venomous in the
country, and would never be venom-
ous at all were it not for the city agi-
tators. The man who, having seen
the pathetic dependence of the city
toiler upon his union leader and
noted his preference for day labor,
should have a look at the country
worker before denouncing the Aus-
tralian as lacking in ambition and
enterprise. Out back most things
that can be done by contract are
done that way for preference.
Shearing, crutching, clearing, fenc-
ing, sewing wheat-bags and cart-
ing wool and wheat—to mention
only a few things—are done by
contract. Wheat - farming and
dairying on shares are eagerly
sought after, and in N. S. Wales
were, moreover, easily secured
until the crazy Workers’ Compensation
Act intervened. All this indicates that
the Australian out-back toiler is enterprising,
ambitious and self-reliant. It shows a
healthy spirit, a nation-building spirit, and
a spirit that is in keeping with country psy-
chology generally. There is a certain vast
impersonality about city life that is not
encountered in the country. In the city you
don’t amount to much whoever you are ;
your identity is swamped in the countless
hordes of identities that surround you ; but
in the country you are always a someone,
If you are born or die, the community will
discuss the matter for days. Everyone knows
all about you, and who your people were,
and so forth. This sort of thing has its dis-
advantages, but it may serve a spiritual pur-
pose. Fewer persons are crushed and ren-
dered impotent by a sense of personal insig-
nificance and loneliness in the country than
in the city, despite morbid tales to the con-
trary. Much has been written concerning
the sinfulness of pride, but the feeling of
self-importance is essential to all individual
achievement. It is better, for instance, to
see the Australian toiler swinging along, all
puffed up with sinful pride, than to observe
him crawling humbly in the wake of an
imported agitator. iCertainly it does not
follow that because a person lives in a city
he will become stricken with humility, but
in Australia country conditions are certainly
more favorable for fostering pride and inde-
pendence, and there are no qualities of which
we stand in greater need.
O
The more the Langs and McTiernans
study the Piddington child-endowment
scheme the less they like it. A tax of “six
per cent, on the wages bill” to provide for
employees with children numbering 820,590
altogether—the Government might tolerate
that. But, in addition, “there are 254.000
children in the families of non-employees,
the vast majority of whom are farmers,
dairymen, fruitgrowers, professional men and
traders in a small way of business,’ 7 arid
are electors all. Doles for this class, Pid-
dington kindly mentioned, would have to be
supplied “through the medium of the con-
solidated revenue.” But there was a defici-
ency of £1,274,000 in the consolidated
revenue last year, while the first six
months of 1926-27 showed a retrogression
of £204,000. Another hurdle was outlined
by the Labor members of Piddington’s com-
mission, who pointed out that 50 p.c. of the
N.S.W. employers were working under Fed-
eral Arbitration awards, and that the “six
per cent, on the wages bill” might be ruled
out in their case as unconstitutional. There
are other objections to the scheme on politi-
SOMETHING WRONG WITH THE RECTPE.
“How interesting, Mr. Brown, that your wife has never let a "birthday of yours pass without
baking a cake!”
“M', yes. I look back on those cakes as milestones in my life.”
cal grounds, notably the unsatisfied demand
of the single men for increases. They also
have votes. Although Badly has been given
leave to introduce some sort of a bill, the Gov-
erment is sorry it didn’t send Piddington
to the Antarctic to study the sociological
peculiarites of the penguins, instead of ap-
pointing him a sort of industrial dictator at
£3OOO a year.
7-$
In all sorts of public places there are signs
of strain and anxiety and ill-temper owing
to money shortage. The Queensland Gov-
ernment has decided to put the last of its
15 cattle-stations on the market. They lost
£152,545 of good money last year, and served
no good purpose to compensate for it. The
State smelters have closed, likewise the State
arsenic-mine, which has been a fine con-
cern for making losses, though a private mine
close by has made profits. State coalmines and
some of the railways are expected to go
into the discard soon. Queensland is in the
remarkable position that it had, at latest
advices, 1219 miles of new railway author-
ised, and regarding many of the lines the
demand for prompt construction was insis-
tent; another 506 miles of railway on which
work was in progress, though the problem
of how to keep up the progress causes
insomnia in high places; and 130 miles
(five separate lines) on which work was
suspended for lack of money, though interest
goes on. In other words, Queensland has
35 more miles of railway waiting completion
than all the other States put together, and
the loss on the lines which are working is a
heartbreaking problem. Old friends now
call the Premier sometimes “Bill” and some-
times “Rat !” because he can’t feed them on
the old financial scale. In N. S. Wales
1000 railway-construction men have already
been discharged because the money-bag pre-
sents a flabby aspect. The same trouble no
doubt explains the warning issued by Syd-
ney's new Labor Lord Mayor, that certain
“pampered workers” must give better value
for their municipal pay.
“Feng-Shul” : “Bildad’s” refusal to believe
(B. 13/l/’27) won’t make Chinese shipping
figures any smaller. Here are a few more
culled from the returns of the Chinese Mari-
time Customs, which, as they are super-
vised by Britishers, should meet his require-
ments. Out of 2295 vessels engaged in the
steam navigation of inland waters in 1923,
1591 were native-owned. Out of 182,722
vessels of (round figures) 131 million
tons entered and cleared at all ports
in the same year, 102.245 of 32 million
tons sailed under the Chinese flag. Others
flew foreign bunting to avoid suffering the
same fate as the China Merchants Co., whose
30 steamers of 57,359 tons have mainly been
commandeered by the military pushes. The
32 million tons previously alluded to was
Chinese shipping cleared at the.open ports
and for overseas. It was 25 per cent, of the
total and was only surpassed by the British
and Japanese, as I said. As for Chinese
shipbuilding, Lloyd’s List, another British
publication, says:-
The development of coasting and river shipping
in China by Chinese companies is quite remarkable,
and pi’actically all the vessels used in these trades
are built locally.
1 wonder if “Bildad” met the stories of
Japan’s marine beginnings 30 years ago with
the same incredulity. Doesn’t he want Aus-
tralia to know that yet another Asiatic race
will outdistance her upon the sea unless she
gets a move on?
*
“X2X”: The cleanly practice of cremation
should receive a lift from the discovery of
a Sydney doctor that whenever it has been
necessary, for removal or resumption pur-
poses, to open an old cemetery, the ex
liumation of the bodies lias been followed by
an epidemic in the surrounding locality. In
one country centre the removal of a number
of coffins from a graveyard which had been
swallowed up by the town’s progress was
the signal for an outbreak of typhoid and
influenza which continued for several months.
In another, the same operation was followed
by an epidemic of diphtheria. When the
old Deyonshire-street cemetery in Sydney
was being moved to make room for the
present Central Railway Station, all sorts of
sicknesses raged in the locality, and the
death and sickness rate amongst the meii
who were employed on the work was pro-
portionately high. It makes one wonder
what sort of a problem Sydney is laying up
for itself with the great Rookwood necropolis
right at its entrance.
*
Statistics compiled in Victoria and N. S.
Wales show that those roads which are
straightest and freest of obstacles to vision
are precisely the ones where the most acci-
dents of collision occur. A straight bit of
road to the mentally unbalanced is as intoxi-
cating as cocaine to a drug-fiend, and even
to the sober-minded it is something of a
temptation. Though he occupies a vehicle
of extraordinary complexity and great value,
the driver may be, psychologically, no better
than a savage. From the point of view of
the rest of society the only difference between
him and the nude gentleman in the jungle
who stalks little children for their heads may
be that his potentialities for doing damage are
rather greater. He opens the exhaust, steps
on the gas and there is a
sickening bump. He awakes,
not to a sense of respon-
sibility towards his fellow-
man, but often to a wild impulse
to escape the consequences. There
is a hue and cry, the police-patrol
car gets on his track, and there
ensues a headlong race, in which
pursuer and pursued are hunter
and wild animal again. Some-
times the chase ends in a more
disastrous crash than the one that
started it. It is a curious spec-
tacle for civilisation to present,
and the best way of avoiding it is
to tighten up licensing regulations
and penalise more drastically
motorists who endanger public
safety. If that doesn’t answer, the
time must come when psycho-
analytic tests will be employed,
and licenses denied absolutely to
persons devoid of the qualifications
necessary for safe driving.
*
“M.G.S.”: The outbreak of rebel-
lion in Java has produced an out-
break of nonsense in the Austra-
lian press similar to that which
accompanied the Macfie murder
last year. One returned traveller
told a Melbourne reporter that the
entire Javanese nation had become
possessed of a magical power, and
by its means held the trembling
Europeans in the hollow of its
skinny brown hand. One manifes-
tation of this astounding power was
that when one set of naked coolies
asked for a two-cent rise, the coolies
on the neighboring job wanted it
too ! Still, they didn’t trust alto-
gether to their magic, because,
according to the same observer, they
communicate in a secret code from
one end of the archipelago to the
other by banging wooden gongs.
One night they will send out a sig-
nal, “Death to the Europeans!”
and that will be the end. I know
those wooden gongs. They are
used to warn villages of amoks or
fires in the sugar-cane. As the Gov-
ernment owns them, it has only to
remove them to postpone the re-
volution. As for the thaumaturgic
powers, I have met some of the
best examples, and any one could
be exercised by the ordinary vaude-
ville “magician.” They are on all
fours with the romantic notion that the
simple native possesses the secret of deadly
poisons unknown to Western Borgias. A
Dutch doctor of eminence analysed the lot,
and found them of the crudest and common-
est quality. Another fairy-tale teller from
Java, starred by a Melbourne paper, sees the
Javanese, after a successful revolt, seizing
Singapore, invading New Guinea, and, pro-
bably in dug-out dreadnoughts, descending on
this Commonwealth and exploding Sydney
with blowpipes. He doesn’t say it in exactly
)] ]ose words, but that is how it would have
r ri
♦ “
The closing days of the London wool sales
were marked by a more than satisfactory
demand for Australia’s keystone product,
even if no sensational heights were reached.
Greasy merino averaged about 24d., which
shows good enough profit for anyone'. Ger-
many has again been a heavy buyer, but the
f ea ture of the sales was the entry of Russia
~ , , , r , ~, T > i 9 • u
° n market. Most of the Bolshie Repub-
lies interest has centred on fine, scoured
merinos, mainly from Queensland, super-
combings going as high as 64|d. With new
buyers showing up plus the generally good
seasonal ending to 1926, growers are feeling
that it isn’t a bad old world.


The Federal Mutual
CaO'u’QD&k }
Insurance Company of Australia, Limited.
FIRE, MARINE AND ACCIDENT.
Licensed to accept liability under Workmen’s Compensation Act 1026.
AGENTS WANTED.
Head Office: 129 Pitt Street. Sydney.
it. KAWNSLEY MOSS, Managing Pirector.
Victorian Branch: 360-66 Collins Street, Melbourne.
H. L. CARROLL, Manager.
Queensland Branch: Federal .Mutual Chambers, Queen Street, Brisbane.
NORMAN M. MAIR, Manager.
South Australian Branch: 36 Grenfell Street, Adelaide.
E. M. MINOGUE, Manager.
SUPPORT THIS PURELY AUSTRALIAN COMPANY.
R. A. MANZIE, General Manager.
AUSTRALIA
Offers yon endless opportunities, for there is health, wealth and content to be
won in this great land.
But here, as elsewhere, success and fortune mainly follow wise planning and
thrifty practice.
Let Australia’s own Bank help you with both. Its officers are ready at all
times to extend to you any assistance within their power, and the bank's efficient
service will be available to you in whatever district you make your home.
There is a Commonwealth Savings Bank Agency in every Post Office and full
branches in the principal towns.
Commonwealth JBank of Australia
(Guaranteed by the Commonwealth Government.)
POLITICAL
POINTS
Bill Mahony, M.-H.R. for Dailey
(N.S.W.),_ is resigning in favor of Theodore.
Theodore is sure of election, and few riien
ever had greater chances of service to their
country and their party. He is in the suc-
cession to the leadership, and his counsels
will at once have great influence. The over-
whelming question is simply whether the
party is going to be honest or dishonest —
whether it is going to stand in all things
for national solvency or for the easy pur-
chase of votes with borrowed money. Tc
adopt the former policy will be a shock to
thousands of men who may find their jobs
gone; but it will save hundreds of thousands
from a greater shock in the future.
“Australia stands to-day where the United
States stood a hundred years ago,” said the
ecstatic Prime Minister Bruce to a Chicago
audience. Well, perhaps 91 years ago is
near enough, and the simple entry in a
United States diary of events reads :
1836.—National debt paid off. .
Do we stand there or thereabouts?
N.S.W. unionists with no Bolsh in tlicir
composition are laughing at the discomfiture
of Sydney’s silly Trades and Labor Council.
That rabbit-brained body nominated Garden,
the Moscow pilgrim, as a member of the
industrial delegation that the Bruce-Pages
are sliding to the U.S.A., and issued the
cheeky ultimatum “No Garden, no delega-
tion.” But when the personnel was an-
nounced, Grayndler, of the - A.W.U., figured
as the representative of N.S.W. unionism
instead of the windbag who went to Mos-
cow ; and whom they broke their dazed silence
Garden and his fellow-Reds could only rage
impotently. For Grayndler carries more
weight where Australian unionists fore-
gather than all the Reds of the T. and L. C.
put together.
By way of “enforcing the 40-hour week,”
several hundred Brisbane building-trade
unionists stayed away from their jobs on
Saturday morning. When they turned up
on Monday they were advised to go home
again, having sacked themselves. The Labor
Government is backing up the employers
who are resisting the infraction of an indus-
trial agreement. Being face to face with
a grim financial situation, it regards “en-
forcing the 40-hour week” as a singularly
bad joke, and the present as an appalling
time to make it.
Many might hesitate in ascribing feminine
traits to Lang, but the N.S.W. Premier
is under suspicion. His refusal to send Edu-
cation Minister Mutch to the Empire Educa-
tion Conference, while offering his personal
supporters, Baddeley and McKell, free trips
to London on futile errands, is a case in
point. Mutch is an able Minister for Edu-
cation, and the cost of sending him to the
Conference, at which his attendance is ex-
pected, would not be sheer waste, as was the
case with the expenditure on McTiernan’s
silly visit to Downing-street. But Mutch has
publicly scorned his leader, and that’s a
thing no lady as is a lady can overlook.
It was a blessed relief when we knew
that S. M. Bruce, who shows signs of wear,
had embarked with his retinue. His utter-
ances in the United States went from bad
to worse :• —-
America should invest her capital in Australia for
her own sake. Though Australia was a great un-
developed source of wealth, it could not be exploited
without increased capital and population. The
United States was the country which must supply
much of that capital. Americans must not heed
statements that Australia did not want American
money.
If the United States invested its capital here
it certainly would be “for her own sake.”
THE LISTENER-IN.
“The Commonwealth Government has issued 500 invitations to the Canberra opening ceremony. Over
200 of these are for politicians and their wives.”
It wouldn’t be for ours. And as this luck-
less land is called upon to find £30,000,000
a year interest to the absentee capitalists
who have invested here already, it wants
to be darned careful before it adds to the
bill. The American who comes here and
establishes his factory and operates it at his
own risk is one proposition; the American
who merely lends his money at Our risk arid
remains an absentee is quite another.
The five months’ trade returns to November
30 have been issued, and Australian exports
are already £35,000,000 short of the amount
required to pay for imports and meet interest
on foreign loans. The return of £8,500,000
of the gold which the banks borrowed abroad
in 1.925 made the exports look better, but
the above was the actual situation. Yet
Beebys and Piddingtons lend a copious ear
to proposals for reducing hours and produc-
tion, and consequently the amount of goods
available to pay the country’s debts with.
If nine-tenths of the aggregate public-works
jobs and schemes were closed up and the
men supplied with productive employ-
ment, it would improve the situation, but
most of them don’t know any productive
occupation, and, if they did, employers and
apparatus must be found. Therefore, the
prohibition of a long list of imported goods
that the community can do without looks
imminent. If the Bruce-Page knows any
other remedy which will be a real remedy,
it had better speak promptly.
In N. S. Wales 930 “factories” (about one-
eighth of the whole) don’t boast of a scrap
of machinery, and 2081 “factories” (over
on e-fourth of the whole) employ less than
four hands; indeed, the average is the pro-
prietor and one hand. It is quite possible
for the proprietor to make less than the hand
after paying the basic wage and a trifle for
accident insurance, and he would naturally
do his utmost to become an employee, him-
self, if by doing so he could collect 18s. per
week for his three children under Lang’s
endowment scheme, instead of contributing
to the support of other people’s children.
Even the lone hand-worker who never em-
ployed anybody would be 6s. per week per
child better off if he could find a boss to
work for, only the boss might show no cor-
responding anxiety to be found. The adven-
turous but stone-broke Ministry is wearing
itself to a shadow over the problem of how
to pay every parent 6s. per infant per week
without collecting the 6s. from anybody, and
badly wants to pass it on to the Federal
authorities.
The work of providing the growing popu-
lation of N.S.W. with “homes of their own,”
subject to 5)0 or 100 per cent, mortgage, is
to absorb £2,100,000 of savings-bank deposits
this year, so this' line of business is likely
to need all the new money that comes in,
and some of the money already there as well.
In the case of the toiler who pays no
deposit—and he is sure to be pretty numer-
ous—the bank is to risk advancing the
depositors’ money up to 90 per cent, of the
alleged value with only the cottage as secu-
rity, and the other 10 per cent, on the
cottage plus a Government guarantee. Even
the 90 per cent, isn’t a business transaction,
but is in part hazardous philanthropy with
other people’s money. To make matters
worse, the no-deposit man with a roving
instinct is apt to be a difficult bird to retain
in the cage, and very careless about keeping
the cage in repair.
The S. Aus. Government, which received a
Commonwealth grant of £685,000 last year,
to which has been added a heap of Federal-
aid road money (the National Government
being under no obligation to furnish either),
has appointed a Disabilities Commission to
draw up a catalogue of the State's griev-
ances against Federation. Such disabilities
as exist are due to spendthrift State poli-
ticians, “Liberal” and Labor, having raised
the State debt from £37,993,000 in 1916-17
to £79,251,000 in 1925-26 (and the Hill
Government reckons on playing up another
- £0,500,000 this year), and the annual in-
i terest bill from £1,339,000 to £3,860,000.
. But the Commission is to probe for the mote
in Page’s eye and ignore the timber in Hill’s.
As soon as three hot days followed one
' another last week, Melbourne, whose water-
works have cost over six millions, ran short
of 1120, and householders received the
usual warnings and threats. The official
explanation is that there is plenty of mois-
ture in the reservoirs, but the mains are
too small. Perhaps it would be better if
the business was handed over to the people
who supply the city with beer. There is
never any shortage of beer.
Sir Thomas Smartt, a front-rank South
African politician, recently revisited Aus-
tralia with the Empire Parliamentarians,
and some of his remarks relating to Aus-
tralia’s employment of labor-saving devices
in agriculture, and the stress he lays on the
great superiority of the results compared
with those of similar undertakings in South
Africa, are notable. Particularly should
they be noted by such persons as Senator
Barwell, who believe that this country can
only be saved by filling portions of it with
cheap nigger. In the Kaffir South Africa
has black labor which is not only cheap but
efficient, especially in agricultural and pas-
toral pursuits. Yet, on the confession of
one of her best-known public men. South
Africa can’t pretend to compete with this
niggerless country in getting results.
A paragraph that throws a sirle-light on
the Federal Government’s scheme to spend
millions on roads throughout the States: —
All hands on the road now under construction
from Juandah to Taroom (Q.) were paid off for
the holidays, and as Juandah is the nearest railway
terminal, of course there was a rush of workmen
to catch the train. A downpour of rain caused
delay, but many lorries filled with the navvies made
the journey of 30 miles in something over eight hours.
Much of this was over newly-formed road, and the
damage caused must run into thousands. But as one
man put it, “It doesn’t matter. It means another
three months’ work to fix it up again, and the
Commonwealth has plenty of money.” Yet if an
ordinary teamster were to take his waggon in wet
weather along a main road in the making he would
certainly be fined.
In the course of liis daily published rage,
Premier Gang explained the whole situation:
As to New South Wales borrowing more money in
London than any other part of the British Empire,
he presumed it was because it was the most im-
portant portion of the British Empire.
And presumably Lang is the most important
man in the British Empire because lie has
certainly tried to borrow more than any
other Premier of N. S. Wales. But it is u
humorless cuss who measures the importance
of a community or a business by the vastness
of its liabilities.
The Town-Planning Association has been
looking up Sydney’s Lord Mayor to propose
a conference of mayors and other Bumbles
re “a greater and better Sydney.” What is
most particularly the matter with Sydney
is that it is too great already, and the im-
mediate question is not so much one of
making it better as of saving it from becom-
ing worse. If the Greater Sydney bill is
gagged through, and the 40-odd municipalities
become one, and the one is of the present
city pattern—as it is meant to be-—with
aldermen who have friends in the motor trade
and with a craving for buying coalmines
and floating £4,000,000 loans, there will be no
need for a Town-Damning Association. The
place will damn itself automatically.
It is harder for a camel to go through
the eye of a rich man than for a Labor
Lord Mayor to do his duty. Mostyn, Sydney’s
latest figurehead, earns his living as organiser
for the Electrical Trades Union, and many
members of that union are in the city’s
employ. Moreover, like other Labor alder
men, Mostyn depended on funds raised by
the council’s employees for his electioneering
expenses, and will have to depend on the
same source next time if he wants to get
re-elected. The new Mayor made a brave
gesture when he climbed on the throne and
talked about service and economy, but he has
already been plagued by men who demand
that their organiser, Mostyn, shall see Lord
Mayor Mostyn, and insist that they shall be
paid whenever they choose to take a holiday.
The man Mostyn is feeling a bit like the
chameleon who strayed on to a Scotch plaid.
Although the trade agreement with Canada
was going to do wonders for the Australian
raisin-grower, Canadian purchases of Aus-
tralian raisins amounted to a mere 75,5551b.
in 1925-26, the agreement operating for six
months, as compared with 158,4581b. in
1924-25. At the same time Canadian pur-
chases of Spanish raisins increased from
1.547.2701b. to 1,773.3971b. Nevertheless, the
modest Canucks asked Bruce, when he was
stopping at Vancouver, for several more one-
sided concessions, notably the removal of the
present embargo on blighted Canadian
apples, the extension of preferential duties
to undressed Canadian timber, and the
admission of Canadian onions duty free. And
the applicants quitted the Presence with
polite platitudes ringing in their ears, instead
of the roaring refusal for which the case
called.
THE SONG OF THE STATES.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“Dr. Earle Page's announcement that the Federal
Government is determined to legislate for the with-
drawal of the per capita payments to the States as
soon as Parliament meets is expected to provoke a
vehement protest from the State Treasurers.”
Mother, our teeth we never cease to gnash
For petty cash,
While happier you, from all that one can learn
Have stacks to burn.
What new expedient will you devise
To minimise
The scanty pittances from which you part?
Where will you start
To skimp us next? O mother, have a heart!
See, Queensland sits among her canes and such,
Stiff as a crutch ;
And such a tightness in the chest assails
Poor New South Wales
That Mr. Lang beneath compulsion's stress
Taxes the press ;
And Tassie, stony-broken, needs must stand,
Lorn little land,
Upon your doorstep always, hat in hand.
No surplus ever met Westralia’s gaze
Since pre-war days ;
“c million sterling to the bad they’ve gone
ide the Swan.
.ctoria, ’tis a cert, and eke South Os-s
Gould put across
A tale, a plea almost as piteous pitch;
They’re in the ditch,
Mother—that is, compared with you, who’re rich.
O Mother, tip us five and twenty bob
For each one’s nob,
Or listen to an anguished, angry roar
From shore to shore,
So flush are you, you cannot stomach more,
And we so poor.
See how from souls distraught and eyes that smart
The quick tears start.
O Mother, Mother, Mother, have a heart!
N.S.W,
T. THE R.


“ Metrovick” Products Include
The Mark of
Efficiency
TURBO-ALTERNATORS
ROTARY CONVERTERS
AUTOMATIC SUB-STATIONS
SUPERVISORY CONTROL
TRACTION APPARATUS
GENERATORS, A.C. AND D.C.
INDUSTRIAL MOTORS
CONTROL GEAR
TRANSFORMERS
SWITCHGEAR, A.C AND D.C.
INSTRUMENTS
PERMIT US TO QUOTE FOR YOUR REQUIREMENTS.
MELBOURNE,
SYDNEY,
ADELAIDE,
1C
BRISBANE
AND
WELLINGTON, N.Z.
NOBEL-GLASGOW EXPLOSIVES.
The Standard of Quality throughout the Empire.
Monobel
Samsonite
Gelatine Dynamite
Gelignite
Blasting- Gelatine
Dynamite
Safety Fuse
Detonators
Cartridges
i
an
3
Write
to
Desk B.
MARTIN DITCHER’S TRIUMPH.
Mr. H. L. Tooth, Murami Irrigation Settlement, on
the Murrumbidgee, writes:—
“The ten acres of rice field yielded me 1444
bushels. I consider the use of the Martin Ditcher
reduced the cost of ditching and check bank work
by 50 per cent.”
The photograph shows a section of Mr. Tooth’s
fine field which was recently described in the Agri-
cultural Gazette. Many other rice farmers are
now using the Martin Ditcher.
CHALLIS HOUSE,
MARTIN PEACE, SYDNEY.
Campbell’s Buildings, Creek Street, Brisbane.
519 Little Collins Street. Melbourne.
T. T. Buildings, Light Square, Adelaide.
Queen Street, Perth. S.B.
The WILDCAT
COLUMN
The New Zealand Loan and Mercan-
tile Agency Co., Ltd., which is in the
pastoral-finance and agency business in Aus-
tralia and Maoriland: —
Dividends.
t A \
5 p.c. Written
Profit. Prets. Ordinary. Oti. Reserves.
£ £ £ £ £
1916. .137,131 49,460 6 p.c.= 50,059 10,000 589,017
1917. 49,460 7 „ ~58,401 30,000 636,134
1918. .184,177 49,460 8 ~ ~66,745 30,000 674,106
1919. .163,22 S 49,730 8 „ ~75,858 10,000 701,746
1920. .185,338 50,000 6* „ ~ 65,000 48,593 723,491
Loss.
1921.. 16,186 50,000 4 „ ~40,000 617,305
1922.. 28,857 50,000 2 „ ~ 20.000 518,448
Profit.
1923.. 92,583 50,000 4 „ ~ 40,000 521,031
1924. .126,725 50,000 6 „ ~ 60,000 10,000 527,756
■1925. .141,590 50,000 7 „ ~70,000 10,000 539,640
1926. .135,640 50,000 7 „ ~70,000 10,000 545,286
Once every 10 years, for the good of our souls
and maybe of our bodies too, it ought to be
obligatory to read the history of this co. to
all Parliaments, company meetings and Stock
Exchanges in Australia and Maoriland, along
with a plain statement of the causes that
produced certain results. The co. was formed
in 1865 and for some years had a very good
time. Then Maoriland had such a boom as
Australia has been having lately; and, while
the country was acting as though the razzle
was going on for ever, the creditors began,
in the absurd way that creditors have, to
ask for their money, and people began to
move round furtively trying to sell things,
only to find other people moving round just
as furtively. Then both lots of people got
the wind up—the expression hadn’t been
invented then, but the feeling had —and the
harder things were to sell, the more clamor-
ous creditors became. While this co. struggled
in that morass another sea of trouble poured
in on it in Australia, where there had been
something we didn’t recognise as a boom at
the time, but which we knew was one pre-
sently. In that respect booms are like
addled eggs: you can’t swear to them till
they break, and then it’s too late to do any-
thing except clean up the mess. For a while,
of course, we try to bluff ourselves that it
isn’t really so bad as it smells; in this case,,
after various attempts at patching, the old
co. was thrown out and a new one formed
in 1894; but three years later something
much more drastic had to be done —no less
than £1,042,142 of share capital was written
off and £1,448,325 of debenture capital. By
that time the devil was feeling very sick, and
in his excessive saintliness he made it prac-
tically impossible, in the interests of old
creditors, for shareholders ever to get a divi-
dend. So in 1903, values having improved
greatly in Australia, a bill was put through
the British Parliament modifying the terms;
and that is how it stands to-day. Mean-
time, of course, on the growth of the busi-
ness with the natural (and unnatural) devel-
opment of Australia and the Dominion, it has
become necessary to get in new capital from
time to time, until at present there is a
million each of 5 p.c. pref. and of ordinary
stock. In addition there is two millions of
4 p.c. debenture stock; and now it has been
decided to issue half a million of 6| p.c.
second prefs.
All things considered, the co. isn’t much of
a money-spinner. Notwithstanding what
ought to be the great help of the two millions of
cheap debenture capital and the half-million
of reserves, ordinaries have averaged not
quite 6 p.c. during the past 10 years. Cer-
tainly the bad times of 1921-22 pulled down
the average, and that knock was probably due
to earlier poor investments. About that
time a new chief officer arrived in Maoriland
and made a revaluation of securities, which
produced a loss for that year. Recent profits
have been better, probably due in large part
to some excellent investments made outside
the pastoral business ; at any rate, it may be
assumed that the -xew general manager, who
was in Australia last year, is satisfied that
the new 6* p.c. pref. capital can now be
profitably employed. No doubt some of it
will be used to reduce temporary loans, etc.,
which have been moving up lately:—
1922. 1925. 1926.
Liabilities other than
debentures. . .. £690,688 £961,236 £1,101,060
Advances . . . . 3,000,361 3,618,340 3,762,216
Property . . . . 4,617 959 859
Premises . . . . 280,290 316,910 380,369
Merchandise . . . . 144,255 234,542 285,739
Shares in other cos. . . 36,873 206,638 192,012
Liquid assets . . 1,487,740 918,492 790,152
The liquid assets are chiefly solid Govern-
ment stocks, and the holding looks large;
but the co.’s Australian clients have no
reason to complain. The commonest trouble
with the Australian “man on the land” is
that he can’t tide himself over a run of bad
seasons, and the best pastoral finance co. is
the one that keeps a long stocking from which
he can get help in his distress.
The National Trustees, Executors and
Agency. Co. of Australasia, Ltd. (Mel-
bourne) :
To
Oct., Profits. Dividends. Reserves. Reserve*,
1916. .£3509 10 p.c. = £3OOO £509 £30,991
1917.. 3347 10 „ „ 3000 347 31,338
1918.. 3680 10 „ „ 3000 680 32.01 S
1919.. 4118 10 „ „ 3000 1118 33,136
1920.. 3921 10 „ „ 3000 921 34,057
Transferred to Capital, £3750 .. 30,307
1921.. 4603 10 p.c. = 3375 1228 31,535
1922.. 4680 10 ~ „ 3375 1305 32,840
1923.. 4117 10 ~ ~ 3375 742 33,582
1924.. 4109 10 „ ~ 3375 734 34,316
Transferred to Capital, £3750 . . 30,566
1925.. 5503 12 p.c. = 4500 1003 31,569
1926.. 5502 12 „ „ 4500 ) 9 01571
To Superannuation, £lOOO j ’
The chief immediate interest in those figures
lies in the light they shed on the problem
whether the 12 p.c. distribution can be
maintained. These are points to be kept in
mind: —
(1) The board does not even suggest that there
might be difficulty ; on the other hand, it calls 2 p.c.
a bonus, and that suggests uncertainty.
(2) Although only £2 was sent to reserves out of
last year’s earnings, the staff bonus was £366 more
than in the previous year; and £lOOO went toward
a superannuation fund, which the co. has undertaken
to endow to the extent of £5604, contributing further
a 50 p.c. subsidy on staff contributions, which range
from 2* p.c. to 5 p.c. of annual salaries. All this
means cutting into profits for a while.
(3) A 12 p.c. div. and bonus requires £4500;
and in only four of the past 10 years have the
visible profits reached £4500. The question then
arises whether profits have been made and not
shown ; also whether business has so increased lately
that the figures of earlier years don’t mean much.
The published accounts don't provide material on
which an opinion can be formed.
(4) One is thus driven to consider what sort of a
board it is—would it be likely to collar a few
pounds of profit and distribute them whenever they
were made, whether the distribution was likely to be
continued or not? Actually the board is a very
sober old body strengthened of late years by the
inclusion of C. R. Murphy, who did fine work on
the board of Bawra. It doesn’t look at all like a
board that would care to see erratic dividends, with
consequent uneven quotations for its shares.
The co.’s own funds are in this form; —
1910. 1920. 1924. 1925. 1926.
Liabilities .. £705 £1,207 £617 £1,481 £1,620
Public securities,
cash. etc. . . 15,239 12,332 14,189 12,157 11,684
Freeholds . . 28,600 50,802 54.151 56,479 56,762
Foreclosures . . 7,684 Nil Nil Nil Nil
Mortgages . . 4,906 Nil Nil Nil Nil
Other assets .. 2,966 3,711 2,104 4,718 5,789
The property item is very heavy, but it
often is in businesses of this kind, where
appearances of vast solidity help to win
clients. Beyond the paid capital and reserves
beneficiaries and others can see the further
protection of £112,500 of uncalled capital. At
October 31 there were net tangibles amount-
ing to 18s. Bd. for each of the 75,000 £2
shares paid up to 10s. The market adds
something for prospects and values the scrip
around 235., giving a return a shade over
5 p.c. p.a. as long as. the 12 p.c. distributions
continue. The chances are that as soon as
the directors can see their way with certainty
they will capitalise some of the reserves and
then restore the old 10 p.c. dividend.
* * *
Lamson Paragon, Ltd. (Melbourne),
manufacturers of counter-sales books and
other commercial stationery :
Towards
Oct., Profits. Dividends. Reserves. Deficit.
1915.. £2,750 6* p.c. = £2418 £332 £714
Added to goodwill items, £l5 .. 729
1916.. 3,638 8 p.c. = 2976 662 67
To Re-
Reserves. serves.
1917.. 3,732 8 p.c. = 2976 756 689
1918.. 6,130 10 „ „ 3720 2,410 3,099
1919.. 6,103 12* „ „ 4650 1,453 4,552
Added to goodwill, £2OO . . 4,352
Premium on new shares, £1792 6,144
1920.. 15,193 10 p.c. = 5811 9,382 15,526
1921.. 3,947 10 „ „ 7500 11,973
1922.. 12,632 10 „ „ 7500 5,132 17,105
1923.. 17,736 10 „ „ 7500 10,236 27,341
1924.. 14,123 10 „ „ 7500 6,623 33,964
1925.. 14,307 12* „ „ 9375 4,932 38,896
1926.. 13,913 12* „ „ 9375 4,538 43,434
The extra 2* p.c. is still called a bonus; but
as dividend and bonus together took but a
minute fraction over two-tliirds of the year’s
profit, the 12-1 p.c. looks fairly safe. Cer-
tainly last year’s profit was the smallest
since 1922; but new plant is going in, and
while payments on that account probably
reduced interest earnings slightly, the future
should see an increase in gross revenue with-
out a corresponding increase in costs. The
increase of outgoings last vear was rather
marked; it was this that was solely respon-
sible for the slight reduction in net profits.
The turnover showed further improvement;
and the outlook from that point of view is
good. In addition to the business carried on
directly by the co. it has £13,334 invested in
a pup co. in Westralia, from which it drew
the usual 10 p.c. dividend; any profit made
in excess of this 10 p.c. belongs to this co.,
but is not shown in the table. Nor are any
reserves held by that co. included in this
co.’s reserves. The position may therefore be
better even than it looks. The finances are
as usual thoroughly sound: —
1923. 1924. 1925. 1926.
Liabilities . . £8,339 £11,613 £7,792 £8,361
Assets:—-
Premises . . 25,426 41,363 38,300 34,800
Plant, etc. . . 27,635 30,422 33,503 33,437
Stock . . 18,919 19,345 24,421 25,110
Book debts . . 20,602 21,219 18,738 20,824
Cash and sundries 9,514 543 2,017 8,915
Shares in other cos. 13,334 13,334 13,334 13,334
Cash and sundries are climbing up, notwith-
standing the outlay on plant; it is pretty
good evidence that in arriving at their profit
the directors don’t under-estimate deprecia-
tion, etc. There is no goodwill in the accounts,
and net tangible assets are equal to 31s. 6d.
per share. The market values the stock at
buyers 335. 6d.
The Australian Mont de Piete Loan
and Deposit Co. (Melbourne) :
To Re- Rc-
Oct., Profits. Dividends. serves, serves.
1915.. 10 p.c. = £1292 £775 £7,462
1916.. 2276 10 ~ „ 1292 984 8,446
1917.. 2942 10 ~ „ 1292 1650 10,096
1918.. 4005 12* „ „ 1614 2391 12,487
1919.. 4380 15 „ „ 1937 2443 14,930
1920.. 6319 15 „ „ 1937 4382 19,312
Transferred to capital, £18,324.. 988
1921.. 4995 7* p.c. = 2341 2654 3,642
1922.. 3477 10 ~ „ 3121 356 3,998
1923.. 3348 10 „ „ 3296 52 4,050
Net Depreciation Fund, £719 .. 4,769
1924.. 4346 10 p.c. = 3934 412 5,181
Property reserve, £9907 .. 15,088
1925.. 4580 10 p.c.= 3996 584 15,672.
1926.. 5808 12* ;, „ 4995 813 16,485
This co. has been in the business for the
last 45 years, and, though they got a nasty
knock 20 years or so back, shareholders
have had a long run of good divs. It has
11 branches in and around Melbourne; the
one at Brunswick was opened in 1925 and
another at Northcote last year, and the two
youngsters have made a good start. That and
the £1228 increase in net profits induced the
board to sweeten the year’s 10 p.c. div. with
a 24 p.c. bonus. The growth in earnings
was helped by a small cut in overhead,
but the chief factor was the growth of the
business, partly, no doubt, the result of the
new branches. Profits have improved steadily
since 1923; and, though in that year the
margin was slender, last year the co. earned
very nearly 15 p.c. on its capital.
Here is a view of how the co. employs its
own and borrowed funds :—-
1920. 1924. 1925. 1926.
Deposits .. .. £18,934 £14,810 £14,420 £18,148
Mortgages.. .. 41,370 34,390 25,950 24,950
Other liabilities . . 9,341 15,233 8,698 6,038
Total liabilities £69,645 £64,433 £49,068 £49,136
Advances, stock, etc. 40,751 40,554 39,828 46.706
Freeholds, etc. . . . 58,432 62,084 45,229 45,640
Liquid assets . . 4,773 8,935 21.642 15,733
The board’s policy of property purchase—
over 80 p.c. of shareholders’ funds is repre-
sented by freeholds, etc. —means leaning
heavily on outside support. For every £1
in the business owned by shareholders there
was 17s. 4d. of outside money at risk at the
close of accounts. No doubt that is good
policy while money is easy and property
values on the increase, as illustrated by the
fat profit made on the 1924 property sale;
but when mortgages and deposits are not so
easily got, it may mean a struggle to keep the
div. steady. After paying the final div. there
were net tangibles of 28s. 3d. for each £1 of
share capital paid up at October 31 last.
The scrip is tightly held.
* * A ;
The Kauri Timber Co. :
Written
Aug., Profits. Dividends. Off. Reserves.
1915. . £61,445 8 p.c. = £46,800 £12,894 £175,573
1916.. 46,668 6* „ „ 38,025 11,233 172,983
1917.. 59,108 64 „ „ 38,025 6,554 187,512
1918.. 72,385 7 „ „ 40,950 9,838 209,109
1919.. 71,412. 8 „ „ 46,800 11,901 221,820
Capital returned, £135,000. Co. reconstructed.
Assets written up. £300,000 of reserves capi-
talised, one fullv-paid 255. share issued for
every 15s. paid in old co.
Reserves.
1 5g
1921.. 134,001 8 p.c. = 60,000 23,382 209^502
1922.. 87,044 8 „ „ 60,000 19,896- 216,650
Contingency fund ( £11,084) taken in 227,734
1923.. 102,858 8 p.c. = 60,000 14,889 255,703
1924.. 104,569 8 „ „ 60,000 15,822 284,450
1925.. 109,459 8 „ „ 60,000 14,691 319,218
Special depreciation . . 27,861 291,357
1926.. 71,255 8 p.c. = 60,000 13,880 288,732
The slackness in the sawmilling industry in
Australia and the Dominion alike, following
heavy imports, with keen competition and
price-cutting in the trade, ate deeply into
last year’s profits. These figures show what
happened:—
1922. 1925. 1926.
Gross profits .. .. £192,828 £184,020 £152,582
Management and all
office exes 60,001 52,269 51,706
Taxes 30,147 17,742 12,290
Repairs and maintenance 16,652 14,930 13,385
So gross profits fell away another £31,438,
and the previous year’s was £3312 short of
its predecessor. Management charges
remained practically unaltered, and the saving
of £5452 in taxation was offset by £2005
written off for bad debts, £lO7O paid out for
insurance and an unexplained reduction of
£1303 in reserves. The net result was a
profit of £2025 short of the amount that the
S p.c. div. called for after setting aside
£13,880 for depreciation. Since the recon-
struction in 1919, £102,500 has been struck
off the book value of freeholds and plant,
and only the board’s sound policy of con-
stant provision for contingencies excused that
last 8 p.c. div. This is how the various
reserves are apportioned :
1923. 1925. 1926.
Contingency reserves .. £156,929 £156,929 £129,069
Contingency fund . . 15,471 28,953 28,612
Div. equalisation . . 20,000 50,000 50,000
Fire insurance fund . . 23,134 37,862 40,000
Fire ins. consequential
loss 9,657 24,809 24,809
Log reserve . . . . 911 962
Marine ins. fund .. 1,832 3,590 4,195
During the last term one of the co.’s mills
in Westralia was scrapped because the tim-
ber on the leases had cut out, and £27,861
from the contingency reserve went with it.
That and the disappearance of the log
reserve (£962) and £341 from the contin-
gency fund left the total £26,420 less than
it was 12 months earlier. As the result of
recent developments the board anticipates
changes during the current term that will
call for another £27,000 from the contin-
gency reserves. That would mean nearly
9d. per share off the net tangible backing
for the scrip. On the other hand, stocks
are probably undervalued.
Some important movements have taken
place in balance-sheet figures:—
1 Q 99 IQ9K IQ9fi
Liabilities .. ..£161,178 £72,768 £80,630
Freeholds . . .. 155,646 147,946 146,048
Leaseholds . . .. 133,409 150,240 88,962
Plant, etc 162,605 134,586 182,576
Stocks and stores . . 412,997 298,911 364,333
Book debts . . . . 116,718 137,301 124,178
Shares in other cos. . . 93,166 93,471 143,471
Mortgages, loans, War
Loan and cash . . 94,072 209,280 99,569
Whether the cutting-out of the Westralian
leases accounted for the whole of the £61,278
shrinkage in the book value of leaseholds
isn’t disclosed. The probabilities are that
something was also lopped off elsewhere.
At the annual meeting in 1925, the chair-
man said “a larger and better mill is being
erected in another district,” and the £47,988
that has been added to the value of plant sug-
gests that progress Ims been made with the
work, although no reference is made to it
in the last report. A good deal of timber stuck
in the yards, and there is evidence of lean
trading in the £65,422 increase in stocks and
the shrinkage of £13,123 in book debts. Also
£96,000 was taken out of War Doans and
£50,000 of it invested in the Vanikoro
Kauri Timber Co., in which San Christoval
Estates is also interested. That movement
didn’t help the year’s profits either. The
subsidiary works timber-concessions in the
Solomon Islands, where, it is said, in addi-
tion to other woods, there is sufficient kauri
to last for many years.
The co.’s financial position is very strong;
excluding the £143,471 invested in other cos.
there were more or less liquids totalling
£558,080 to meet outside liabilities' of
£80,630 at August 31. Including the hold-
ings in other cos. shareholders could then
sec 275. Bd. in net tangibles for each of the
600,000 shares fully paid to 255. each.
Sellers have been asking 30s. for the scrip
without attracting buyers.
* * * • *
Broomfields, Ltd. (Sydney), hardware
merchants and ship chandlers, from the time
the co. took its present title:—-
. To Re- Re-
Profit. Dividend. serves, serves.
1920. . £23,540 12* p.c. =£9,657 £13,883 £33,716
Reserves capitalised, £31,500 .. 2,216
1921.. 12,166 7* p.c. = 11,693 473 2,689
boss; Deficit.
1922.. 45,644 Nil _ 42,955
Capital written down, £42,657... 29S
Profit- Reserves.
1923.. 3,740 2* p.c. = 3,165 575 277
Loss. Deficit.
1924.. 4,859 Nil 4,582
Assets written down, £38,340 .. 42,922
Profit.
1925.. 266 Nil 266 42,656
Capital written down, £42,656..
Reserves,
1926.. 15,894 3 p.c. = 2,544 13,350 13,350
Freed of the deadwood, Broomfields has
made a promising start. The 3 p.c. div.
was a poor thing, but less than one-sixth
of net earnings were distributed, and in the
circumstances that is worth an honorable
mention. Certainly, to those who bought in
when shares were at a premium the 3 p.c,
represents only about 1 p.c.; but its chief
value lies in the confidence it suggests on
the part of the directors that there is some-
thing better to follow. They don’t, it is
true, break out into any hosannas; they
soberly report that “special attention has
been given with a view to the further
development of new departments and addi-
tional stocks have been added, which it is
anticipated will materially help to show


IS TIN TOO HIGH ?
See
“Wild Cat Monthly”
for January.
Now available at all principal
Newsagents, or direct from
“The Bulletin” Offices,
Sydney and Melbourne,
Price 2/-
We stock -f- OF -)- Malleable Fittings to suit
every requirement, and as there are over 7500
varieties to choose from, we can accommodate any
trade. For water, steam or gas. Will not split or
crack, and are correct in every detail. Obtainable
fiom William Adams & Co., I.td., Sole Agents,
Sydney, Newcastle, Melbourne, Brisbane, Adelaide,
Perth.— Advt.
* # * *
Under a great variety of conditions throughout
Australia, Pioneer Wood Pipe is proving its un-
qualified success as a modern, economic conduit. It
is generally known that saturated wood is practically
indestructible. It is immune from rust and cor-
rosion, and offers no foothold for tubercles and
fungi. The smooth interior bore of Pioneer Wood
Pipe therefore cannot choke or harbor impurities, and
actually increases in efficiency with constant use.
The Australian Wood Pipe Co., Ltd., Burns Bay Road,
Lane Cove, N.S.W. —Advt.
* * * *
WIRE ROPES—AUSTRALIAN MADE—Prices and
particulars from Bullivants’ Australian Co., Ltd.,
331-333 Kent Street, Sydney; B. K. Morton Pro-
prietary, Ltd., 85 Clarence Street, Sydney; J. R.
Reid and Sons, 401-403 Kent Street, Sydney, Success-
fully used all over the Commonwealth for all pur-
poses.-— Advt.
Inventors. —Have you an idea worth patenting?
Griffith & Hassel, Patent Attorney, 77 Castlereagh
Street, Sydney, obtain Commonwealth and foreign
patents. — Advt.
* * * *
IDEAS —Commonwealth and Foreign Patents
obtained. Coi.uson & Co., 483 Collins St-cet, Mel-
bourne, and Adelaide. Thirty veais' practice. Write
us for Inventors' Guide — Advt.
Are you interested in concrete mixing, etc.?
Arthur Leplastrier & Co. Pty., Ltd., Goldsbrough
House, Sydney; Collins House, Collins Street, Mel-
bourne; 164 Edward Street, Brisbane; and 29
Morphett Street, Adelaide—manufacture in Australia,
the famous “Multimix” Drum-type Concrete Mixers
from small to very large sizes, and now cater for
the small user with their “Tiltamix” One-man
One-barrowload Tilting-type Mixer. Write, wire or
telephone for full particulars to the nearest branch
of this Concrete Mixing Specialty Firm.— Advt.
The Pacific Cable Board
DUST ROUTE TO GREAT BRITAIN'.
CANADA. NEW ZEALAND, etc.
TARIFF PER WORD “VIA PACIFIC.”
On!i- Daily Daily Letter
nary. Deferred. Telegram.
GREAT \ 2/6 1/3 9d. (minimum
BRITAIN f 15/-, 20 words)
Week-end7Jd.(minimumchargel2/6, 20 words)
FRANCE
HOLLAND
BELGIUM V 2/6 1/3 Nil
GERMANY
SAVTTZERLAND '
CANADA .. 2/- 1/- 7d. (minimum
nr i jrjj , . . 11/S. 20 words)
Week-end 5Jd. (minimum charge 9/7,20 words)
U.S.A. .. 2/4 to 1/2 to Nil
2/8 2/4
f N.Z. Night Letter
(vr. Au J Rate minimum charge
ZEALAND.. 44d. ] 3/- for 20 words and
l 2d. per word thereafter
THE PACIFIC CABLE BOARD,
261 Ceorgfe Street, and 55 Liverpool Street
Sydney.
Tel. City 1346 and B 7754.
Queen’s House. Qu rri Melbourne.
Tel. Central 2084.
Queensland
Insurance Go.
Ltd.
Head Office:
Pitt & Bridge Streets.
Sydney.
The Largest
Australian Company
transacting
Fire, Marine, Personal
Accident and Sickness,
Burglary, Live Stock,
Public Risk, Boiler Ex-
plosion, Workers’ Com-
pensation, etc., etc.
YG
v<>
rOORD & SON
tOMDON. emclamd.
FINEST DRY GIN
& OLD TOM
DT
’-Swift & Company Ltd.. Australasian Agent*. -6 30 Clarence St.. Sydney
ARE YOU AWARE
TH\T IT IS NOT NECESSARY FOR YOU TO IMPOSE UPON YOUR FRIENDS THE ARDUOUS
DUTIES OF EXECUTOR OR TRUSTEE?
PERPETUAL TRUSTEE CUMPANY (LIMITED)
Was specially incorporated by Act of Parliament to undertake these duties, and its Wide Experi-
ence and Reasonable Charges ensure for Estates entrusted to it Specialised Administration at a
Minimum of Expense. The value of Estates and Agencies at present under the Company’s care
exceeds £28,000,000. which is evidence of the confidence in which it is held by the Public.
DIRECTORS;
Hon. R. J. BLACK, M.L.C. (Chairman) Dr. R. L. FAITHFUL!,
T H KELLY WALTER T. BRUNTON
Sir SAMUEL HORDERN HERBERT R. LYSAGHT
Managing Director: R. COPLAND LETHBRIDGE.
RESERVE FUND £105,000
SUBSCRIBED CAPITAL £1,000,000
PAID-UP CAPITAL £160,000
Write or call for Booklet.
33-39 HUNTER STREET, SYDNEY. H. V. DOUGLASS, Manager.
further improvement.” Also, as trade
prospects appear to be better than for some
time past,” they “consider that shareholders
may look for an increasing return. xne
going will not be easy. The co. is giving
more attention to general hardware, and
this is a difficult and. of late, a by no means
rich field. Still, shareholders may be reason-
ably sure that there is no overstatement
in the balance-sheet; there may even be a
little reserved in some of the assets items,
and the £5OOO put by against bad debts may
not all be needed. The position at August
31 was fairly comfortable :
1920. 1923. 1924. 1926.
Liabilities.. .. £29,255 £22,703 £23,689 £25,950
Mortgage .. .. 25,000 25,000 25,000
Premises and plant 15,319 55,313 54,969 44,420
Stock .. .. 89,463 85,095 79,244 <5,744
Book debts .. 52,020 37,058 35,076 31,347
Cash .. . • 1,689 269 1,77 i 133
An expansion of almost £ll,OOO in stocks
is solid, but there is nothing against that if
the buying was good. On that point the
management has yet to prove itself. Prob-
ably with that in mind the market hasn’t
allowed itself to be optimistic, and £1 shares
have been sold at 12s. 9d. Latest quotes
are : buyer 12s. 6d., seller 13s. 6d.
* * * *
Malayan tin shares are just now almost
the only wear with mining speculators in
Sydney. A drop in the price of tin did not
prevent the New Year market opening with
a profession of brisk confidence, and later
improvement enhanced this. Whether this
tone is justified is another matter. Much
Malayan stock is inflated. There is more
than a suspicion that backers and boosters
are being forced to “mother” their pets to
keep share jirices at their present absurdly-
liigh standard: that is, apparently, what the
recent market amounts to —the men who
started the joke have to keep it going for
their own sakes. An excuse for the danger-
ous over-pricing of many shares is the alleged
shortage of tin supplies. Reference to the
figures for the last three months of 1926
will show that actually stocks are increas-
ing. In November they were a little over
14,000 tons; in December 14,257 tons; on
January 1, 1927, they were 15,000 tons. The
quantity coining to hand in those three months
rose from 1495 tons to 1985 tons. That must
have a steadying effect on prices. Yet if tin
were £5OO a ton, some of the cos. whose esti-
mates went a pound and over to the yard
could never hope to give a fair return
on the prices now ruling for their shares.
One of the best-known Sydney-Malayan con-
cerns, and a good one, too, may serve as an
example. A f ••»■ ? a long and rich run it is
now in poo.r ground. Whereas in Octo-
ber it was lifting out 70-odd tons of tin, the
harvest dropped gradually until it was under
40 tons in December. To justify the price
of its shares that dredge should be getting
out 100 tons a month. And what is true in
this instance is true of many another pro-
position.
* » * «*
Rawang, one of the Pratten interests, has
started the New Year by adopting yet
another infant. This, known as Rawang
Concessions, is quite well grown, and lias
been worked for several years by open-cast.
Though much tin was taken out, the owners
found the old methods too expensive. An
option was given to Rawang, and has now
been taken up. Alluvial Tin. Ltd., under
the guidance of Malcolm Newman, has
finished testing the 1000-acre area, which is
near the Rawang holding but further up the
valley. Bores indicate that 360 acres will
be available for bucket-dredging or gravel-
pumping, and the estimate is 22,000,000
yards, averaging 1 Alb. of concentrate per
c.y. These are brave figures, and will take
a lot of living up to, and nobody can tell what
the bottom is like. The new co. has a
nominal capital of £200,000. Vendors of
the Concessions get £45,000 cash and 45,000
fully-paid £1 shares in the new co. Rawang
takes 45,000 f.-p. shares and subscribes all
fhe tialance of 110,000. A minimum of
60,000 shares in the new co. wall be retained,
and the balance will be dealt with as the
directors decide later.
* * * *
Nawmg Tet (F.M.S.) lost £11,890 on
operations for the year to March 31 last:
the treatment of 173,400yd5. gave 128 tons
oxide, and brought in £20,207. The mon-
soonal deluge in November, 1925, played
havoc among three of the co.’s dams, and
repairs ate up £15.427. All this informa-
tion is so old now 7 as to be almost worthless,
still it shows, what the co. is liable to meet.
Indeed, it still struggles with the surplus-
water problem, and the shrinkage in oxide
recoveries is pronounced.
* * *
Eastern. Tin, a Siamese venture, reports
on its boring at Ngow with unusual candor.
Twelve bores averaging 22ft. down went
12.40 z. per c.y., but five were put down 20ft.
without any tin.” Banngow, an adjoining
lease belonging to the same co., returned
10.30 z. per yard in 16 bores, averaging 25ft.
Here, again, seven bores w 7 ere tried “without
any tin.” The writer of that report didn’t
learn his business in Pitt-street.
The Teddy Miles group has registered
Satulpulo Extended as another ruby-tin gem
from the Orient. It is to exploit 101 acres
which H. H. Miller testifies should average
B.Boz. tin oxide to an average depth of 48ft.
In the old days 48ft. would have been a
stunner, but big, high-powered bucket plants
eat down to that depth nowadays with ease.
Funds for plant are to come from 60,000
shares of 20s. each, of which holders of scrip
in Siam Concessions are to be given first
bite. The issue has been underwritten by
Teddy Miles, Ashbolt, Palfreyman, A. Temple
Miles, and solid old Kliaw Joo Tok of
Penang. For the underwriting they are satis-
fied with 3000 paid-up shares. A cheap job,
but as the same people become directors, a
bit more may be ahead.
* * * #
Mt. Isa is the one visible field that may
restore Queensland’s mining prosperity. The
northern State produced in 1926 a pitiable
85500 z. fine of gold, thus dropping 35,7930 z.
fine on the 1925 production. This was due
to the position at Mt. Morgan. Recovery
at the Mount is not yet certain. By the end
of the year the problem may be solved.
Gympie and Charters Towers are dead; the
State’s gold yield for last year totalled that
of a normal crushing from one of the good
Towers mines in its palmy days. Mt. Coolon
is strangely quiescent for a group which, it
is reported, was valued at a sum running
into six figures, and to which Broken Hill
interests were attracted sufficiently to send
an emissary to investigate. The figure asked
was said to be excessive. The field ought to
be capable of producing 20,0000 z. p.a. Ravens-
wood has a thread of prill ore to mine, but
it is too thin, and it is too costly now to
look for thin threads in virgin ground. The
outlook for Queensland gold is drab every-
where.
Mt. Isa is a potential giant. Engineers
Titcomb and Geppert are now on their way
to the field for the purpose of advising their
Anglo-American employers on their contract.
That the corp. has taken 50,000 £1 shares
at par is some assurance that they have been
impressed by development graphs and assay
plans. It is satisfactory to this Column to
look back several years and find, when Isa
had more detractors than friends, that the
paper’s information was once more essen-
tially sound. It pointed out that Isa and
Broken Hill were totally different in occur-
rence, that the latter had all the enrich-
ment and the former hardly any, but that
Isa had prospects of such immense tonnages
of medium- and low-grade ore that it would
possibly be on development a field of world-
wide importance. It is not there yet, but
is well on the way.
Rare-metal mining is still in the dol-
drums in one of the world’s most richly-
dowered territories in molybdenite, bismuth
and wolfram combined. The market is too
low, and beyond a little scratching round
Wolfram Camp and Bamford there is no
activity.
With the tin market buoyant Queensland
has recovered in this industry, and has pros-
pects while top-notch prices last. Ilerber-
ton and Kangaroo Hills at the moment are
the principal producers, with Stanhills an
unknown potentiality. The two former are
capricious, but the tin shoots are abnormally
rich. Stanhills even now is on its initial
crushing, long waited for on account of the
drought. St. Smith thinks poorly of the
field; Jensen and Williams think highly of
it, and the latter has not wavered in his
faith. It will take a few adverse knocks to
uproot the McClellands from Stanhills.
Stanthorpe will increase its production this
year due to small rich patches of freehold
country now available under an amendment
of the Mining Act. The Wild Cat cannot
see Glen Aplin tin producing in the quan-
tities predicted by its promoters and their
advisers. The Far North, however, is the
tin country par excellence, right throughout
the granite massifs extending from Kangaroo
Hills to Cooktown, and there lie almost un-
known alluvial stretches which will be
ignored while tin is so easily won in Malaya
and while Australian capital invested there
reaps such a generous reward. North
Queensland alluvials will have to wait, but
their turn will come.
With electrolytic at £62 there is of course
no prospect for Queensland copper by smelt-
ing methods. Copper gouging is going on
to a limited extent in the Cloncurry district.
Gougers are trading in ore running from
20 p.c. to 40 p.c. metallic copper. Mt. Oxide,
one of the world’s big copper-mines, sleeps
peacefully. No mines are yet worked out in
the Cloncurry district on the standards of
other countries —they are simply abandoned
because they could not keep on producing
10 p.c. ore.
The locally-boomed Nigbtflower, near Chil-
lagoe, discovered at the same time as Mt.
Isa. lias failed. It was looked on as the
probable saviour of the costly State Smelters
at iChillagoe. The splitting of the lode and
its adulteration by antimony spoiled its
chances. Its place has been more than taken
by the Redcap mine at Mungana. Develop-
ment work there during 1926 has been singu-
larly promising and has caused locally an
entire revision of its future prospects.
Hampden Cloncurry Copper, Ltd. (N.Q.),
has disposed of a number of its mines to
gougers; and various sections of the pro-
perty have been let to tributors, who are
earning good returns.
In liydro-carbons coal and oil —no
advance was made last year. Over-develop-
ment and over-production characterise coal-
mining, in which the State is a business com-
petitor to a large degree. Its string of
operating mines are Mt. Mulligan, Bowen,
the Styx and Baralaba. Throughout the
trade business is dull. There is.no export
market, and bunker trade is negligible. As
a result most of the collieries are working
half-time. lii oil no discoveries of commer-
cial interest have been made, and the search
has been practically abandoned, except in the
third Orallo bore.
The reappearance of Flagstone (N.S.W-)
on the stock sales list at 15s. for £5 paids
must have been galling news for contribs.
who had parted up the last 2s. 6d. call to
make the face value of their holdings 525. 6d.
With plenty of water available it is up to
Mackenzie to ask the battery to justify his
bonanza reports; and the office might do
worse than call holders together for the long-
overdue annual meeting.
* * * *
Big ideas circle round North Mount Farrell
now that a new hand wields the broom. A
new shaft is projected to save at least 360 ft.
of crosscutting for the lode at each new level
below No. 10. With the formation under-
lying fairly fast away from the shaft, the new
sliaft is essential. The fly in the butter is
that West Coast lead-zinc shows so far have
not justified deep work; still, “if you don’t
specerlate you won’t accumerlate.” Three
years’ work is in sight off the present levels.
The programme is to get the shaft down be-
fore ore reserves are depleted and to have
a fresh level or two opened up so as to restore
reserves to at least present dimensions. Then
output can be enlarged and costs cut. To
help a bit the co. has a dump of about
300,000 tons of tailings and slimes, and
£BOOO is to be spent on a plant to handle
1200 tons of this material weekly. The
residues have been subjected to experimental
treatment and the estimate is that a profit of
10s. a ton can be wrung from them. If so
it won’t take long to pay back the capital
which the board is obtaining by floating
20,000 shares of a new issue. To get within
the law the board has to call up 3s. 6d. a
share of uncalled capital on the present
80,000 shares issued, but it pays that sum
back out of reserves.
* * * *
John Brandon and broker Long have floated
Aberfoyle, Avoca (Tas.). Ideas have changed
regarding lode tin, or even this little co. of
1000 shares of £25 each would not have slipped
off the stocks like a charmed thing. Terms
denote a practised hand: 200 paids go to the
vendors, Haas, Lawson and Shepard, of Fin-
gal, for their 80-acre plot, and if the option
acquired from them be exercised they also
get £5OO from the money subscribed by the
floating of 500 contributing shares of £25
each directly the option is exercised, and
another £5OO six months later. For their
brain fag the promoters and underwriters are
rewarded with 50 fully-paids. The draw is
that the Storey Creek mine, 21 miles distant
on a like formation, has won £170,000 of
oxide to a depth of 300 ft. J. Muller, its
manager, and H. LI. Miller, who does inspect-
ing work for the Miles group in Malaya, each
has a good word for the Aberfoyle, because
its two prospecting shafts carry good ore and
because the gangue is quartzite.
* * * *
Jack McDermott and his London partners
are finding their option on the Glenclg
Queen rather short, and will probably apply
for and get an extension. Surface indica-
tions on the show were good enough to go
on with, so the option-holders sank two shafts
200 ft. apart on the strike of the lode, and
in the bottom of one at 60ft. down exposed
6ft. of 4oz. ore. Further developmental work
is being done, and in a few months it should
be easy to say whether the property is worth
London’s while or not.
* * * *
Efforts are being made to re-open the
Golden Horseshoe (W.A.). The directors
recently blamed the “onerous conditions im-
posed on the mining industry” for the clos-
ing down of the property, but said nothing
about the £50.000 they obtained from the
Government last year to keep the mine work-
ing for a time, or their gross neglect to pro-
vide for the rainy day in the co.’s opulent
years when millions were paid away in divs.
* * * *
Westralian gold-production is now lower
than at any period since the discovery of
Coolgardie in 1892. It is true that last
year’s yield was only a little below that for
the previous 12 months, but as smaller
returns from the Ivalgoorlie mines, which
now furnish the great bulk of the
metal won in the State, are expected, the
output for 1927 is likely to show a further
drop. New producers might prevent this,
but Wiluna will not be able to render much
assistance for a year or two, and nothing
else of any size is in sight.
* * * *
The Administrator of New Guinea recently
called at Salamoa, the port for the new gold-
fields, on his way south to Melbourne. His
object was to gather information in connection
with the disputed claims on Edie Greek, and
other causes of discontent among the Bulolo
miners. This is to be embodied in the report
he is to make to the Federal Government,
in reply to the list of grievances forwarded
by the Miners’ Association. Most of the
complaints have been expressed in The Bul-
letin, but there is one hitherto unnoticed
item on the list. It is alleged that when
the official acting as Warden granted the
now notorious Edie Creek leases without
visiting the ground, the objecting miners
appealed against the decision to a Rabaul
official known as the Reviewing Magistrate.
That official is alleged to have criticised the
Warden’s finding “in scathing terms.” Un-
fortunately, the Ordinance which gave him
the power of review did not give him
authority to upset the finding, or even to
remit the case to the Warden for a new
hearing. Such stupidity seems incredible.
If the facts are as alleged, no one concerned,
from the man who drew the Ordinances to
the official in Melbourne who approved of it,
can be held free from blame.
* * * *
Westralia produces about 1000 tons of
gypsum monthly. The mineral is found in
shallow salt lakes, dry in summer, from 150
to 250 miles from the coast. Three or four
small cos. in Perth and Fremantle are
engaged converting the mineral into plaster
of Paris, from which various building requi-
sites are manufactured. They are doing well.


COMPLICATIONS AT THE POST.
“The newly-arisen Liberal party in Victoria promises to contest every seat at the forthcoming elections, a procedure which will further help to divide the anti-Lnbor vote.”


Ihe
smoke them
20 for V 6
Sole Manufacturers ■ Ardath Tobacco Company Ltd : London
333
CIGARETTES
SOCIETY
“and it's
printed with
WIMBLE'S INKS”
WHAT THE SURGEON FOUND.
“What was Maude operated on for?”
“Twenty guineas.”
“Ted Lewis” ; One go-getter struck a new
vein the other day by making a pilgrimage
to a settlement of Kanaka, peanut-growers
outside Rockhampton (Q.) and collecting
fl per head from all the males for “income-
tax.” He made an excellent impression on
his victims by offering, if they shelled out
promptly, to let bygones be bygones and not
bother about unpaid arrears. This act of
magnanimity earned him not only effusive
thanks but many offers of water-melons,
pumpkins and the like. It also made him
w T isli he had made the tax thirty bob. The
ingenious rascal was helped in pulling off
the ramp by the picturesque regalia in which
he attired himself, suggesting a cross be-
tween a lieutenant in the Salvation Army
and the wild-animal tamer at a circus. The
simple colored folk could hardly have been
more impressed had they received a visit
from Big Bill McCormack, Queensland's
Fremier-Treasurer. And the chances are
McCormack’s Treasury wanted the pound
more urgently than the smart gentleman who
bagged it.
“Julian”: When the ferry-steamer Pearl
sank in the flood-waters near the broken
Victoria Bridge on the Brisbane River in
1896. there were 20 or 80 casualties reported,
but few bodies recovered. The name of a
near neighbor of ours appeared in the list
of drowned, and after considerable delay his
widow collected the insurance. But there
were other claims, moral if not legal. He
had been holding a public position, and his
books showed a serious shortage. For the
sake of the children the widow made good
his' defalcations. We felt sorry for her, for
we knew there had been another woriian in
the case. In W.A. about five years later
it was my business to make out the union
cheques for the fatal-accident death-benefits,
and it gave me great pleasure to sign one
payable to the Brisbane lady—a man killed
in the mine was the citizen who was supposed
to have gone down with the Pearl. The
receipt of our cheque was the first she knew
about it. The dead man’s unofficial wife
threatened trouble, but the union rules gave
her no chance.
* * * *
“Jim Domino”: Hearing that a Chinese
herbalist had worked almost miraculous
cures, a well-known West Melbourne manu-
facturer who has been in poor health for
some time decided to give the Chink a trial.
“You know,” he told the oily Oriental, by
way of opening the interview, “I’m inclined
to be sceptical.” The yellow man mourn-
fully shook his head and said: “Welly bad —
welly bad. Him cum flom stomach.”
* * * *
“Patrick” : This is an age of marvels all
right. Bearup, the studio manager for 3LO,
resides in one of the rural suburbs of Mel-
bourne, and awakened on a recent morning
when he was due to leave by an early train
to find that liis watch had stopped. Worse
still, the dining-room clock had gone out of
order. He had no idea of the time, so he
went to liis powerful wireless-set for assist-
ance. Tuning in to various overseas station-
lie picked up Bordeaux, France, which broad-
casts a time-signal at regular intervals. One
of these came through as soon as he started,
and by making the calculation of the differ-
ence between Bordeaux and Melbourne he was
able to set liis watch within five minutes
of the correct time.
* * * »
“Akran” : it hap-
pened a few days
ago to an old-age
pensioner near
Wardell (N.S.W.).
The weather was
hot and a bush fire
was raging. The
old chap filled a
tub in the kitchen
a n d, stripping,
crawled into it.
Three feet of whip-
snake, startled by
t. h e approaching
fire, insinuated it-
s elf ' through a
crack, and in a
t w inkling was
slithering around
in the tub. There
wasn’t room for
two, so the old
chap hobbled out
with more speed
than he had worked
up for years. The
nearest weapon
was a crutch, and,
after sweeping a
few articles o f
crockery from the
table in errant
swipes, he man-
aged to find the
snake’s top - piece
and lay him out.
Th en he co 1-
lapsed.
“Wang”: Some years ago there was in
Gippsland a bootmaker who, when anybody
died in the township or surrounding district,
would promptly send in to. the executors
an account for boots supplied to the defunct
and allegedly not paid for. As it was seldom
easy to ascertain whether the amount was
actually owing, old Hobnails generally scored.
His claims finally became quite a joke in
the district, and when anybody pegged out
somebody would be sure to wonder how much
he owed old Hobnails for boots. _ It was
with a determination not to be victimised by
the old reprobate that a local octogenarian,
Lambswool, the grazier, had it set forth
specifically in his will: “I do not owe a
farthing to anyone for boots,” the word
“boots” being heavily underlined. The laugh
was against old Hobnails when Lambswool
went west. But only for a few days. At the
end of that time the executors received a
claim from Hobnails for two pairs of slipper;-:
supplied to the deceased. They paid up.
* * * *
“X.N.0.”: ‘Tiping the side,” referred to
in the cable accounts of the Yorks’ departure
from England in the Renown, is a survival.
THE COLLISION.
“They seem to have all the money they need.”
“That's the trouble. They both need it at the one time.”
The pipe is a shrill whistle capable of two
or perhaps three notes. It will carry in a
gale where no shouting will do any good..
Such common orders as “Hoist.” “Lower
away,” “ ’Vast hauling,” etc., can be and
often are given by pipe alone, and were
always so given in the old sailing-ship days
when inter-ship visits at sea by admirals
and captains in all weathers were necessary
for conferences, receiving instructions, etc.
Those entitled to be “piped” on board are
royalty, flag officers ( i.e ., commodores and
above), all officers commanding ships and
all foreign naval officers. A boatswain com-
manding a third-class bug-trap would be
piped, but a commander second in command
of a ship would not, unless he were flying
his pennant, which he only does on the way
to a court-martial. Military officers are not
entitled to the honor, and many enthusiastic
young officers of the watch have been hauled
over the coals at combined naval and mili-
tary stations (e.g., Malta) for “piping the
side” for a General Officer Commanding.
* * * *
“Spare Corp.” : Without knowing it, the
Y.M.O.A. head, Frank Grose, saved my life.
He was the Y. Emma rep.
on the boat that took me
overseas. By the time the
voyage was drawing to an
end my impecuniosity was
inches 'thick. I started the
trip with only a few shil-
lings, and the 50s. which was
all the A.I.F. allowed on a
transport was badly riddled
by leave ashore at Durban
arid Capetown, though it
had been augmented by
some cash prizes won on
board in various competi-
tions, mostly organised by
myself. In the depth of my
despair, Grose came to me
with an apologetic air and
mentioned that lie had ex-
hausted all the sports prizes
provided by Y. Emma, and
there were no articles left
for the ship’s chess cham-
pionship. “Perhaps yo u
wouldn’t mind accepting
your prize in money.” he
suggested, blushing rosily. It
was only fifteen bob, but
fifteen bob was a million to
a hard-up soldier, and my
amateur status had long been
irreparably damaged. But
I believe Grose never quite
got over the idea that it was very kind of
me to take the insult so nicely.
* * * * ■
“Bad Australian” : It was the occasion of
the Potts-Poyntz golden wedding. When
the rite of cutting the cake was approached
the knife specially provided squibbed on its
job. A carving-knife was requisitioned from
the kitchen, and when that also failed to cut
ice, Papa Poyntz, who by this time was a
very flustered' and angry papa, took a long
breath, called for a chisel and hammer, and
tackled the mass of confectionery once more.
At the first vicious skelp it collapsed into a
heap of lath and plaster, whereupon the
harassed housefather cast the tools from him
with violence and invective and fled into outer
darkness amidst the sniggers of the assembled
guests. It appears that Pa had chosen the
“cake” from an assortment in one of the con-
fectioner’s show-cases, and the attendant, who
was new to her job. had packed and de-
spatched it in ignorance of the fact that the
highly ornate creations in that case were
nothing more than pine and plaster-of-pans
representations of what a wedding-cake
should be.
* * * *
“Borom”: There is apparently one little
group in which identification by finger-prints
may prove untrustworthy. An English ex-
pert recently examined about 120 double sets
of prints taken from twins. His re-
port states that there was little or no resem-
blance in 70 of the sets, but that in the other
50 the likeness was so marked that it was
only with the greatest difficulty that they
could be distinguished. There has never yet
been a case in the Australian courts in which
the finger-prints of twins have been put in ;
and when it occurs, the jury will have a head-
ache.
* * * *
“X.N.0.” : One doesn’t need to be a light-
house-keeper (B. 6/l/’27) to “get to think
in Morse.” I have actually seen an expert
wireless-operator read two different mes-
sages—one with each ear —and write down
one with the right hand and the other with
the left. This would be impossible to anyone
who couldn’t “think in Morse.”
THE SHATTERED DREAM.
THE BOY : “Say, Kid, will you marry me?”
THE GIRL: “Oh, Bertie, I’m so disappointed!”
THE BOY : “Why — what’s the matter?”
THE GIRL : “ I’ve always thought you’d go down on your
knees to ask me.”
MIRABILE VIST!!
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“The Duchess of Westminster turned a somersault,
but was not injured.”— Cabled account, of the Quorn
(Eng.) meet.
Where the tropic beach is blazing,
Where the cold Aurora crackles,
I have walked this world amazing,
Vagabond, whose only shackles
Are the ties that ever bind me
To a quest, alert though smiling.
All about, before, behind me,
For the quaint, bizarre, beguiling.
Foolish things I’ve seen and clever,
Sights debasing and exalting,
But —ah, woe is me ! —l’ve never
Seen a duchess somersaulting!
You have viewed a king his crowning?
All the pomp and pride and splendor !
But I’ve seen a monarch clowning,
And a bishop on a. bender;
Looked behind the tricks confounding
Of an Orient magician.
And the wiles, no less astounding,
Of a home-grown politician.
Strange events are crowding ever
On my way, my footsteps halting ;
But I’ve never—no, I’ve never—
Seen a duchess somersaulting.
Far and wide this world of wonder
Have I searched, palace and hovel ;
Yet it seems one still can blunder
On a sight to me quite novel,
Listen, friend ! A batsman hitting
Have I seen, too stunned to cheer him,
And a movie-actor sitting
Where the limelight.came not near him!
But, as from this life I sever,
Must I own this sad defaulting:
May I never. . . .never. .. .never
See a duchess somersaulting!
VICTORIA.
HASEN.
THE POET LOOKS FOR COLOR.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Ho fov a rainbow rhyme, sapphic or runic,
Blue as the John Hop's close-buttoned tunic;
White, dazzling white, like his hot-weather trousers;
White as the chokers of whiskery wowsers;
Red as the pillar-box painted but r.ewly,
Red as the Cray bought at six by yours truly;
Pink? Here the poet somewhat at a loss is—
Pink as a frost-bitten dosser’s proboscis!
Hint of a tint of a sea opalescent,
And here ends (thank Heaven !) the rhyme iridescent!
VICTORIA.
EARDLEY TURNER.


A little picture from an Australian in
Honduras (Central America) :
Honduras, the only British possession in Central
America, lives mainly by cutting logwood and
mahogany ; the latter is the mainstay of the colony.
The timber is scattered, and an
average of one mature tree to the
acre is good. Only within the last
couple of years has forest conserva-
tion received attention, and that is
because British Honduras mahogany
is unrivalled for aeroplane propeller
blades. The peninsula of Yucatan,
including the northern portion of Bri-
tish Honduras, also supplies all the
“chicle,” or sapodilla gum, used as
the base for the manufacture of chew-
ing-gum. I trust the habit is not
spreading in Australia, as supplies
are getting short.
This country was the home of the
Maya civilisation, the greatest in
America before the Spanish Conquest.
It is supposed to have reached its
zenith about a.d. 500, but although
the Maya calendar was superior to
the contemporary one of Europe, these
people were ignorant of the arch, the
wheel and transport animals. London
Daily Mail is at present making a
special stunt about the explorations
of Mitchell Hedges and Lady Rich-
mond Brown. Their hardships are
mainly of their own manufacture.
The primitive natives “discovered”
actually live in surveyed villages, and
are sufficiently civilised to maintain
a properly lie ensed grog-shop in addi-
tion to schools. My own work neces-
sitates my having a thorough know-
ledge of the country, and I can
assure the Mail there is scarcely a
spot more than 20 miles away from a
survey peg.
Belize is our capital city, with the
best roads of any town in Central
America—when the tide is out —-but
does not possess a footpath. It is
built on a sandbank at the mouth of
the Belize River, and the back por-
tion has been reclaimed with maho-
gany chips and rum bottles. It is a
miniature Venice, the 18-inch tide
and the catfish being relied upon to
sweeten the canals. Yet it is a re-
markably healthy place; Death’s chic!
weapons amongst the Europeans are
old age and liquor. The port is now
dredged to take ■ boats of six-feet
draught, and the running of liquor
into the dry U.S.A. has provided the
funds. Tiie local dollar is the
U.S.A. dollar, and the gold reserve
behind it is kept in the States for
safety.
Our mails come from New Orleans
by the fruit boat which calls weekly
to pick up the few canoe loads of
bananas still produced, but if the
Panama disease is not overcome we
shall soon have no bananas.
The great day here is September
10, the anniversary of the Battle of
St. George’s Cay in 1798, when,
according to local tradition, a
juvenile Spanish Armada was de-
stroyed. The official records mention
that the British casualties consisted
of one nigger—who got drunk and
fell overboard. But of course Aus-
tialian school children are conversant
with this historical incident whereby
British Honduras retained its place
amongst the brightest gems of the
Empire. Incidentally, the British
West India Regiment (8.W.1.) con-
tained the local war contingent
which was attached to the Aussies
during portions of the operations
afiiiinst the Turks. The 8.W.1.
< laims a wonderful war record, but
the Diggers’ honest opinion of the
Black Anzacs might be interesting.
“Harold Hardupp”: Long ago the Com-
monwealth Bank set out to popularise sav-
ing by issuing pay-envelopes to employers.
Possibly in order to add an inducement to
the wage-earner to take the envelope home
to his missus, who, after all. is the real
money-saver, cookery recipes are now
prmted on the back of the envelopes One
of them—a vivid description of the making
ot lemon-cheese—mentions as one of the
ingredients “the yoke of an egg.” A
puzzled person who showed me the recipe
wanted to know if this is a reference to the
white collar surrounding the yellow stuff.
* * *
Wang : One of our road workmen had
his push-bike stolen the other day, and in
reply to my condolences remarked uncon-
cernedly that the loss didn’t worry him. He
might be lucky enough to get another as
easily as the one he had just lost, he added.
Then lie explained. The bike in question had
been picked up on the beach some months
before, and handed over to the police. While
they were waiting for a claimant they were
in the habit of using the machine on official
business. One day a policeman rode on it to
a house near where my friend was grafting,
and while the Law was inside transacting its
business our laborer proceeded to inspect the
mount. When John came out the laborer
put in a claim for it. The constable
wanted proof, and the laborer lifted the
thing up, and turning it upside-down pointed
to his name and address written on the under
side of the saddle. “An’ I’d only picked up
th’ stub of pencil five minutes before,” he
added with a grin.
* * * *
“A.G.M.” (Loud.) : Bertram Mackennal’s
description of Sydney as “sordid” —cabled to
the English press—is accepted in Anglo-
Australian circles as the unkindest cut which
any Victorian has ever made against the
N.S.W. capital. Garish in spots and unsym-
metrical in others —that would have been
accepted from the hypercritical; but “sor-
did” is a term that has raised the blood of
Sydneysiders to boiling-point. In London
their city is always spoken of as a minor
paradise. Phil May’s idea of Heaven was
Sydney within an hour’s journey of London.
* * * *
“Mako” : And now how about some tardy
rescues of men overboard? A youth I knew,
wishful to see life afloat, left the Bluff
(M.L.) in a famous and much post-carded
barque, and two days out, on a squally day,
added to his experiences by falling overboard.
He managed to catch the lifebuoy flung
out, and half an hour later was relieved
to see that a boat had been lowered. lie
THE AUGEAN STABLES AND THE NEW HERCULES.
“The new Lord Mayor of Sydney is also the paid organiser of a union which comprises many
municipal servants ; and immediately after lie had announced a policy of economy and efficiency, he was
called upon by members of his union to make them large concessions.”
went overboard at 10 a.m. and it was 4 p.m.
before he was picked up. During his long
immersion he sighted the barque a dozen
times, but the rescuing boat was not seen
again by him until just before it picked him
up.
* * * *
“Romney”: Delightful Margaret Cooper
had a short way with late-comers. Once in
Sydney she had just sat down at the piano
for her first item when a dowager of heavy
tonnage sailed up the centre aisle with two
daughters in tow. Margaret kept on with
her prelude, twiddling away till the dowager
had reached her destination; then as she
sank into her seat, down crashed Margaret’s
two hands on the bass.
* * * *
“H.C.”: When the Earl and Countess of
Stradbroke went overland from Adelaide to
Darwin and back through Cloncurry and
I.ongreacli in 1924, they travelled in four
dilapidated-looking Fords. At one of the
big stations on the Barkly Tableland where
they spent a night they were told of an
interesting local identity named Peter, who
was pumping at one of the bores on the road
they would follow, and who, incidentally,
had helped Allenby to win the war in Pales-
tine. His Ex. professed a desire to make
Peter’s acquaintance, and when the party
pulled up at the Arm Chair bore he strolled
over to the plant where two men were work-
ing. After a few amenities he asked if either
of them had seen service in Palestine, where-
upon the bigger of the two dropped his
wrench with a “Hell, yes. I thought I knew
your blanky face. Shake, Digger!” They
yarned for some time, and when the dusty,
travel-stained Governor was preparing to
rejoin his party, Peter took a sudden and
violent fancy to his brown suede shoes,
and ingratiatingly offered him ten shil-
lings for them, an offer which his
Ex. smilingly refused. Peter and his
mate came into the station a few days later
and asked who the four cars belonged to.
Their opinion was that “the old cove what
got outer the last car an’ come buzzin’ about
askin’ questions muster been the cook.”
* * * *
“Percy Pawnticket”; For real sports-
womanship I hand the prize to Mrs. Binks.
Binks had got on the scoot, and in the
course of his jamboree had mislaid himself
so effectually that his home had not seen
him for several days. At this stage of the
proceedings I happened to be one of a few
choice friends who were drinking with
Binks in his office, it being after hours,
when the telephone tinkled. 1 answered
it, and covered the receiver whilst I told
Binks that it was his wife speaking; then,
at his urgent signal, I conveyed to the lady
that Binks wasn’t there. “Well, would you
mind taking a message?” said a soft, cooing
voice. “Please tell Mr. Binks that Mrs.
Binks would be charmed if he would call
on her when he has got through his rush of
engagements.” We sent Binks home; a wife
who put it like that deserved to see her
husband occasionally.
* * * *
“Hayband”: There are other urgent
reasons why “Gor’ Save” should be rendered
at the beginning of a show. Recently I
attended a booked-chair affair at Sydney
Town Hall. The lady next door was so
wide that a lot of her overflowed on to my
seat. I got a leverage against the next
chair and applied a 13-stone shove. It was
like leaning on the Commonwealth Bank.
Then the orchestra set up the old Anthem.
Everyone stood—and I got down first.
* * * *
“Frequent Lover”: Some hurried matri-
mony was witnessed in the wedding of
Honor Scott, a Chatswood (Sydney) girl,
to E. J. Rondahl, of Rabaul, last week.
The ’groom, on a holiday to Sydney, pro-
posed to the lady, and they decided to
discuss wedding details on a motor-run.
The discussion was to such purpose that on
their way back from South Head the sweet-
hearts picked up a spare parson they saw
waiting for the tram; and that night he
married them. The quick marriage gave
an opportunity to get through the honey-
moon before the boat left for Rabaul. It is
not the most sudden wedding Sydney has
known; that happened when a couple who
had merely met by the accident of being
neighbors in a picture-show walked straight
out of the show-house to the altar.
* * * *
“Echo”: How’s this for “love at first
sight”? At the end of 1916 three of us, on
leave in London, were on a ’bus turning out
of Trafalgar-square and bound for Ilorse-
ferry-road. Suddenly one Digger “hopped
it,” ana from our o.p. we saw him amble
up to a damsel who was busy sketching from
the pavement some of the surrounding archi-
tecture.. The same evening we met the pair,
whose acquaintance had evidently ripened
rapidly, in one of Lyons’s dug-outs. Early in
T 9 I was on the bow of a Melbourne cable-
car, when a Prahran-bound ditto whizzed
by, and I had ample time to recognise the
Digger and his London charmer. They
looked like a married couple, and I have
since found they are.
“The Master of McHaggis”:
Maoriland is just now afflicted
with that epidemic for claiming
mislaid or imaginary fortunes
which is liable to infect any
community. Two persons alleg-
ing themselves to be “Royal
Stuarts,” but at present just
plain Dunedinites, are inter-
ested in an alleged sum of a
million—these missing moneys
seldom get below that figure—
a share in which depends od
ability to trace a connection
with the Stuarts aforesaid. It
is as well the claim was not
made during the war, or the
fact that Ruppreclit of Bavaria
is the foremost representative
of the family might have led to
trouble. But another anomaly
appears. The claimant family
has been traced “rigfyt back to
the Duke of Argyll.” The Camp-
bells of Argyll have been the
deadly enemies of the Stuarts
ever since either family began
to acquire publicity—and that
was long ago. It was the Camp-
bells of Argyll who chased the
Stuarts off the British throne,
and did more to keep them off
and their successors on than
any other great family in Bri-
tain. In short, a Campbell in
a Stuart family tree could only
have been there under circum-
stances of grave suspicion.
* * *
“Elgar” : Having been nearly
run over by a mob of these
Carinthia tourists, and haying
inspected them as casually as
they did this country, I am lost
in wonder at their luck. Here
are some 300 of Uncle Sam’s
most opulent citizens casually
trapesing around the backblocks
of the Seven Seas and never a
pirate has so much as looked
hungrily at them. It’s enough
to make Bully Hayes turn in
his grave. Any enterprising
buccaneer could hire some sort
of gunboat from a S. American
republic, with a crew of certifi-
cated cut-throats thrown in, and,
catching the Carinthiaj some-
where between here and no-
where, what a haul he might
expect! It just shows that the
loneliest places in the world are
the safest. A party of this
financial tonnage would be
afraid to travel along the streets
of, say. Chicago except in an
armored car.
* # *
“Nikko” : The parson is not the
only man who has to accept
payment in kind. I was at a
small up-country M.L. school
when two boys proudly rolled
a huge pumpkin up the road.
They trundled the monster
through the gate and into the
schoolhouse, where the school-
master cast on it a look of
resignation unmingled with ad-
miration. “Please,” explained
the elder youth, mopping his
damp countenance, “this is for
our books and liberry money,
and father says he’ll send the
rest when the turnips is in.”
The harassed dominie merely
said “Thanks. Roll it into the
corner,” and went on correcting
exercise books. “Please, sir,”
said the aggrieved donor, “it
took first prize at the Show last
week, and father says lie could
have sold it ten times over.” “I wish he
had,” muttered the recipient, dourly.
* * * *
“C.C.”: The China banana, now better
known as the Cavendish and a general favo-
rite, found its way into the South Seas a
century or so ago through the good offices
of the Duke of Devonshire, who sent it arid
some other plants in a consignment going
out to emissaries of the London Missionary
Society. Portion of the consignment was
thrown out op the rubbish heap as dead; but
a mission worker named Mills retrieved the
banana root, stuck it in the soil and had
good luck. From that plant have come all
others of the same species in the South Seas;
and when the missionaries came over to
Torres Strait and New Guinea in 1871 they
brought a supply for introduction there.
Being of a much hardier type than their
own. and of fine flavor, it is now cultivated
pretty extensively.
* * * *
“Retired Volt”: Despite individual ex-
amples of originality printed in The Bul-
letin, statistics show that there is no body
of citizens more conservative than the sui-
cides. Of the 91 self-immolators in Vic.
last year, 27 selected poison, 18 took the
hempen route, 13 drowned themselves, 11
cut their throats and nine lay down on rail-
way-lines. Although liigh-power transmis-
sion lines now run all over the country,
only one chose, electrocution, and he was
an inmate of a mental hospital.
THE DESIDERATUM.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
A politician is an unfortunate person who, what-
ever he does, gets very little appreciation. No man
works harder, or takes more pains to please his
clients. \et the pains he takes are frequently
unrecognised.” —Wail of N. S. Wales M.L.A,
For legislators our regard
Is seldom more than cynical;
We find, unless they’re hanged, ’tis hard
To place them on a pinnacle,
hike other pests who suck our blood
Their name collectively is Mud.
But if, instead of taking pains,
They took to taking laudanum,
Above their stiffened, stark remains
We might begin applaudin’ ’em:
For, politicians, it’s been said,
Are never statesmen till they’re dead.
N.S.W.
HAROLD HARDUPP.


Usher’s Hotel Ltd
Castlereagh Street, Sydney.
A first-class new and up-to-date
modern hotel.
Running hot and cold water in all bed-
rooms. and many have Bath de Luxe.
Automatic bedside telephones.
English and French Cuisine.
New Marble Bar, spacious and airy.
For perfection of service, comfort
and cleanliness, Usher’s Ltd. is un-
equalled.
Inclusive Terms, apply
MANAGER.
Cbe Equitable Cife
Hssce.
o O
O
'Mzr
Coy.
of
Australasia 01
Head Office:
Parbury House, Eagle Street, Brisbane.
Branches:
N.S.W.: VICTORIA:
81 Pitt St., Sydney. 360 Collins St., Melb.
Transacts Probate, Life Endou,ment, Com-
bined Benefits (All Sickness) Assurance.
(Vacancies for Producers with good records .)
FREDK. LEVY, Mg. Director.
/
■4 A:u
‘ » I m'<
A 7
y>
ALWAYS ORDER
Schweppes’
Dry Ginger Ale
the Only Original.
REFUSE SUBSTITUTES
AND IMITATIONS.
Manufactured only by
Schweppes, Limited.
A story was printed some time ago in
Brisbane that a lady who had kept dis-
orderly houses had repented on her death-
bed, and had left large sums of money to
various churches, including something con-
siderable to an R.C. prelate “on condition
that she was readmitted to the fold and
buried in the odor of' sanctity.” The Bul-
letin, referring to the story (B. 25/11/’26),
said that “when the whole proposition was
put before the prelate, he made a condition” :
in his own words “this woman sought to be
reconciled to Holy Church, but I would not
give her the sacrament or Christian burial
until she promised to close all her houses.
She did so, and now they are closed for
ever!” There was no reflection whatever
there upon the prelate; it was not even sug-
gested that he had accepted the bequests.
Still, to make matters quite clear, on Decem-
A SHOCK CASE.
“Like my frock?”
“Frightfully little of it, isn’t there?”
“All depends on how easily frightened you are.”
ber 9 a paragraph was printed to the effect
that “the R.C. prelate referred to came into
the matter, not as a beneficiary, but because of
an insinuation that this money had influ-
enced him in allowing the sacraments to be
administered.” Of course no such insinua-
tion had been made in The Bulletin; such
a thing was neither stated nor implied nor
even hinted at in the most remote way. On the
contrary, it was expressly said, in the pre-
late’s own words, that the one condition on
which the sacraments were given was the
closing of the houses. The Bulletin is
sorry that some doubt about the matter still
seems to exist in Brisbane, and has caused
the prelate distress; it therefore now makes
the matter, it hopes, plain beyond all ques-
tion.
“Elea”: The most ingenious incendiaries
can hardly improve on pure accident. I
was sitting on my verandah the other night
without a light in the house, when a
sudden little gust through the open window
drove a long lace curtain into the front
room, tangled it with a tin box of
matches on a side-table, and landed the lot
on the floor. The matches exploded, and
up went the curtain in flame. My house
and furniture are insured, and if I hadn’t
been there to put out the blaze no doubt
there would have been the usual sniffs.
“Oxmead” : Effigy-burning was a favorite
amusement in the roaring ’nineties of the
W.A. goldfields. When Bigjohn Forrest
refused to consider the claims of Dead Horse
Soak to a railway, or the Minister for Mines
jibbed at providing a public battery for
Liars’ Gully, it was customary for the
aggrieved district to take this method of ex-
pressing its gnawing sense of injury. The
Postmaster-General of the period, a worthy
old muddler named Sholl, was naturally sub-
jected to this metaphorical form of cre-
mation, more frequently than any other Min-
ister, simply because the mail and telegraph
services were always breaking down. The
ceremony pleased the crowd, besides provid-
ing opportunity for a lot of turgid oratory,
and it couldn’t have harmed the victims
hundreds of miles away. At closer range it
was liable to be more scarcsome. I remem-
ber once assisting at the obsequies of a
highly-unpopular resident medical officer; he
was so rattled when the news reached him
that he made a bolt for the hospital, and
(it is alleged) hid in the deadliouse for
safety. I suggest that the reputed secession-
ists of Groperland who, according to Senator
Paddy Lynch, are justified in taking any
measures “short of disruption or rebellion”
to draw Australia’s attention to the state
of vassalage to which they have been
reduced by Federation, might get quite a lot
of satisfaction (and publicity) by bonfiring
counterfeit presentments of Bruce and Page
and Senator Pearce and other of the hard-
hearted tyrants beneath whose oppression
they groan. It’s a cheap and thoroughly
filling way of registering undying enmity or
even mild annoyance.
“Loco” : Personal
experience a n d
observation running
over nearly 40
years have convinced
me that stout men
make the best loco
engine-drivers. They
are not troubled
with nerves, and
nerves are the devil
of our calling. Were
I an examiner of
candidates for con-
trol of the throttle-
valve, I would
make one of the
qualifications for
the job a fair
amount of flesh on
the examinee's
bones. I have
known many, lean
enginemen, but
never one who was
not a nuisance to
himself and every-
body working with
him. On the other
hand, I can’t recall
a man with plenty
of adipose tissue
who has not been a
success. Look at
“Paddy” Zinnow,
for years head
driver on Wirtlis’
circus trains all
over Victoria. He
/ has never been
known to deliver
Alice and the other
elephants late at a
stopping - place.
Paddy is about 19
stone. If ho wasn’t
an engine-driver lie
might easily get a
job as the strong
fat man of the
circus.
“P.X.”: Had little Joan Smith disap-
peared from Poolamacca station 30 years ago
there would have been no lack of trackers
to follow her footprints—and anybody else’?.
In those days Jack Brougham was King of
Poolamacca and monarch of the Poolamacca
tribe. Really it wasn’t a tribe; but Johnny
was the kindest-hearted boss in the West
Darling, so derelicts with colored skins
gathered near the homestead and made a
more or less permanent camp. The appalling
collection of wurlies distressed him so much
at last that he decided to build a big-pfeller
camp. It was duly erected and handed over
to them. For a week or so all hands occu-
pied it; then one by one, or two by two.
they sneaked out when darkness covered
HIS SAVING GRACE.
BOB: “Yes, that’s poor old Sims. Ills wife’s people give him leans —find fault with all
he says and does. There’s only one thing about him they admire”
KATII : “And that’s?”
BOB : “His choice of a wife.”
them, and within a month the big galvanised-
iron home was deserted. Black brother and
sister were happy again with their dirt and
their dogs and their fleas.
•<f -K- * *
“C.Q.” : Like horses, illuminated addresses
run in all shapes. In a Vic. boarding-house
during the holidays I found one that had
been handed to William and Mary Anne
Smith (both born in 1831, married 1556)
on the “important occasion of your reaching
your diamond-wedding anniversary.” “In
our early days,” continues the manifesto,
“you taught us the Ten Commandments as
a basis upon which to mould our lives, and
we have endeavored to act in accordance
with. your teachings. . . It is evident you have
done your share in perpetuating the family
name, and there is no chance of its dying out
for very many generations.” As many as
were available of nine children, 78 grand-
children and 26 great-grandchildren have
signed the document in witness of the old
people’s services to the country.
* * * *
“Nakhoda”: It was a queer SOS that
3LO, Melbourne, broadcasted the other even-
ing—an appeal for malarial volunteers to
attend at the Alfred Hospital. None of them
knew what they were wanted for, but they
turned up next day in a steady stream,
which, incidentally, indicates how many poten-
tial infectors of Anopheles quadrimaculatus
there are in the community even of the
Southern city. The diseased blood of the
volunteers was needed for injection into the
veins of paralytics. This is the method
developed by the Austrian Wagner-Jauregg, at
Vienna. It was found that lunatics ceased
to regard themselves as Queens of Sheba
when suffering from high fever, and that
the advance of G.P. was definitely stayed by
subjecting the patient to graduated doses
of the tropical nuisance. Thus many a sick
Australian planter and tin-mining man will
find a new use for himself in life. Person-
ally, being an old sufferer myself, I am not
at all elated at the news. Not half so
pleased, in fact, as when I learned that the
insect that gives us the complaint suffers
acutely from it, too.
* * * *
“M.G.S.” : Strange survivals crop up even
in Australia sometimes. A Melbourne wine-
shop proprietor, charged with having persons
on his premises after hours on January 1,
pleaded that his wife so ardently desired
that a dark-eyed man should be the first
to walk through the house in the New Year
that a friend with suitable optics had been
invited to perform the ceremony. If the
excuse was genuine—and the magistrate
thought it was —then we have here a resur-
rection of the ancient Greek practice of
loading on to the back of a human scape-
goat, always selected for some physical
peculiarity, such as red hair, all the ill-luck
and diseases of the household and sending
him with them out of doors. If the friend of
the Melbourne winery got a glass of pinkie
for his services he escaped more lightly
than his predecessors in the good old days.
If he had been born in the Greek colony of
Marseilles, where one ceremony served for
all the city, he would have been fed at the
public expense for a year and then thrown
from the city walls. If he had been an
Athenian he would have been stoned to
death, and if he had been a Greek of Asia
Minor lie would have been stripped, gar-
landed with flowers, stuffed with figs, an
unmentionable operation performed on him,
and finally, while flutes played cheerful
music, he would have been burned on a
pyre of forest trees and the ashes flung into
the sea.
* * * *
“Kea”: As domestic help was urgently
required, I walked over to the Maori kainga
near by to look for it. Leaning against a
post was Henarc, whose buxom wife occa-
sionally could he persuaded to lend a hand
when needed. I consulted Henare about the
matter, and he assured me that Itoka would
be over at the house early on Monday morn-
ing. She wasn’t, and I gathered from her
relatives that she had no intention of taking
any interest in the relief of the domestic
problem. This I mentioned to Henare when
I met him at the store in the afternoon.
“Tat’s funny she not go,” said Henare, “but
she go to-morrow orright.” “Oh, I don’t
suppose she will,” I remarked. “Too right
she will,” said her husband, enthusiastically;
“after I go home and kick her round te
prace, she go anywhere I say.” As Itoka
arrived in the morning I concluded, despite
her cheerful grin, that she had learned when
obedience was the better part.
tHE LAUGHING SAXOPHONE.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The violin chirrups a sleepy song,
A foolish thing and sweet,
And the ’cello thrums an undertone,
Hut a devil laughs in the saxophone
Down in the sunny street.
The high brown buildings are sliced with shade ;
Half in shadow and half in sun,
Tearing jazz out of themes superb,
A rag of a band strums by the kerb —
Like a saint who swears for fun!
There are golden notes in the darkest place,
A summer day with a rising wind.
And a black man marketing gay balloons
That seem to dance to the modern tur.es
Adrift in an empty mind—
Orange balloons and almond-green
And red, the shreds of a sunset flown ;
The merry jig-saws of carnival
Bl;.w puffs of shadow along the wall,
While a devil laughs in the saxophone—
Laughs at girls that were lily fair,
At sodden women that reel and whine,
At men who suffer for honor’s sake,
At hearts for barter and hearts that break,
At poison-berrv or eglantine;
Laughs at love that was time and brave;
Laughs at lust that has weary grown ;
Laughs at a faith that we tried to keep,
With robber hands on the safest sleep—
The naked hate in that saxophone !
As I dream old dreams in a quiet room
(A scent of wet gardens inward blown),
Of children praying at women’s knees,
Of the strength in the old fidelities,
How that devil laughs in the saxophone!
QUF.ENSLAND.
M, FORREST.
THREE OF A KIND.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Tobias was a sober lad ;
But, oh, the summer season !
The earth in gaiety was clad
To rob him of all reason ;
And Toby sighed, “A lass I need
To frolic wi’ me; yes, indeed!
We'll wander where the gay seaweed
Bedecks this gracious season,
What better fate for a man,” said he,
“Than a smiling maid and a laughing sea?”
Young Toby picked him out a lass
Of daintiness undoubted,
And praised the gods it came to pass
She fled him not nor flouted ;
A most romantic ship they sailed
But, Lord ! the sea and season failed ;
The maiden smiled, but — Toby ailed,
So fierce the high waves spouted,
“What harder fate for a man,” said he,
“Than a ‘Do, now !’ maid and a ‘Don’t, now 1’ sea?”
~ , .
Young Toby tried his luck again,
Another day and maiden ;
The sea was like a moonlit plain
Wlth silver glamor laden ;
And Tob . v guessed the going fine,,
But soon he learned another line,
For *o him she would not incline,
Uncompromising maiden,
“°h, bitter fate for a man,” said he,
“With a ‘Don’t, now !’ maid and a ‘Do, now!’ sea!”
Tobias bought, him honest beer
(« was the summer season)
Thb ™ oral • Theie is none, I fear,
“ or ® ° f , | han reas ° n;
Toby sighed, w ith treble X
* ll sta - v; my so y l 110 more 111 vex
For - , comc to ‘ he - v re of a sex ~
. lass > a sea > a season.
T) s tempting fate for a man,” said he,
To expect em a11....at 0nce.... t0 agree!’
victoria.
MACESS.


Crnnon's Wotd
cenfr>p of
Queenc/ando
( Dio/inpuis/i<?d
Social Li/p.
Brisbane
Magnificent Ballroom, Palm
Court, and Lounges at the
disposal of guests and their
friends at all times.
V s
00-
Suites de Luxe—double and single Bedrooms, with Bath-
rooms attached. Hot and cold running water and Electric
Fans in every Bedroom, together with every modern con-
venience for the comfort of guests.
TELEGRAMS A CABLES— LENNONS, BRISBANE.
7 TELEPHONE CENT. 5780 (lO LINES).
12
11
io
2
0
3
»■«
B
4
¥5
Fx & R” Watch, 15-jewelled Lever, in Oxidised
Steel Case, open face, pocket type, 66/-
The “Fx & R” Watch
The Most Extraordinary
Value of the Age.
The movements are on the lever principle.
They have brequet over-coil balance springs.
They are f-plate Levers.
They are jewelled in 15 holes.
They have compensated and adjusted balances.
They have jewel ruby rollers.
They are specially made to stand rough riding
and knocking about.
They keep time to within seconds a months.
They are guaranteed for 15 years, and kept in
order (breakages excepted) for one year.
They are made in every style of case.
Fairfax & Roberts, Ltd.,
Tlie Oldest Jewellery House in Sydney,
23 and 25 Hunter Street.
Plain Figures—Cash Only.
PERSONAL
ITEMS
Arthur Graham Butler, the new medical
officer at Duntroon, will be remembered by
many Diggers, not for his distinguished war
services and as the compiler of the history
of the A.A.M.C., but for a drink of water
that came when it was most needed. On the
first day on Gallipoli, although he had his
work cut out to deal with the wounded, and
only two stretcher-bearers, one with a broken
leg, to help him, he succeeded in damming
a muddy trickle, and by filtering it through
sand and a tow r el made it drinkable.
The late William Edward Shaw has left
a more imposing memorial than many who
were more flamboyant with their gifts for
public purposes during the war period. This
is the beautiful home at Summer Hill (Syd-
ney) which he gave to the Edith Cavell
Memorial Association as a rest-house for
nurses, and which is known and appreciated
as Cavell House. Shaw was one of the most
generous of Anglicans—if there was any-
thing in church or missionary or charitable
work in the diocese he was not actively asso-
ciated with, it was because he didn’t know
of it. He was 74 at the finish.
BERNARD HALL, director of the
Melbourne Art Gallery.
A shy young Sydney doctor, Warnford
Moppett, who was appointed biologist in the
Cancer Research Department at Sydney
University five years ago, is credited with
the important discovery that the use of
X-rays of different wave-lengths produces
different results. As previous investigators
found that X-ray treatment was sometimes
the reverse of beneficial, there is a prospect
of medical science making another stride
forward when the exact results of the differ-
ent wave-lengths are tabulated. Moppett
was the John Knox scholar at the Sydney
Grammar, where lie won an exhibition which
took him through liis medical course at the
University. He is to attend the Medical
Congress in Dunedin next month and read
a paper.
There is a curious coincidence behind the
circumstance that just-dead detective ,T. M.
Christie was selected to look after the Duke
of Edinburgh in 1868, and later to perform
the same service for the present King when
as the Duke of York he travelled Australia
in 1001. The motto on the Scotch family’s
crest is “Pro rcgc.” One of Christie’s ser-
vices to royalty was to intercept a girl in
Auckland who had bet her fiance that she
would pinch the Edinburgh princeling’s arm.
Being a sport, Christie took the adventurous
damsel up to the royal guest, who obligingly
lent his limb and let her nip it.
Victoria has lost perhaps its most promi-
nent nun, Mother Mary Magdalene McDon-
nell. Educated at Dublin, she joined up
with the Vic. Sisters of Mercy in 1879, and
at various times filled all the offices in that
Order. When the amalgamation between
the Victorian and the Tasmanian sisters took
place she was appointed their first Mother-
General. She was 66.
Patrick Stone, who passed out at Gerald-
ton (W.A.) the other day, was about the
best-known inhabitant of that seaport for a
period of nearly 40 years. Pat left Donegal
an infant, and grew to manhood in his new-
home before education was compulsory, but
he had a good deal of native shrewdness to
compensate him for a merely nodding
acquaintance with the three IPs. Through-
out his fairly long life his desire to sit in
Parliament was quenchless, and he con-
tested numerous elections, but the cockies
of the Greenough Flats were the only elec-
tors who ever took him seriously. He repre-
sented them for a couple of terms in the
State Legislative Assembly between 1901 and
1908, and lived on the memory of his brief
span of celebrity ever afterwards. And Pat
certainly had one remarkable achievement
to his credit. Few speakers more handi-
capped by early upbringing ever appeared on
a platform; yet in 1905 he defeated ex-
Senator Ned Harney, later a K.C. and now
a member of the House of Commons, the
most eloquent speaker W.A. ever heard
either in the law courts or on the hustings.
The Greenough cockies listened to Harney’s
purple periods like men entranced, but they
voted for Pat.
“Ben Zine” : Professor “Dad” Rennie, who
ceased from pursuing the atom in Adelaide
the other day, was the patriarch of Austra-
lian chemists. Born in Sydney 74 years ago,
he took his B.A. when the ’Varsity there
had less than a hundred undergrads., but it
was not until he reached London, where he
took his D.Sc., that lie made the acquaint-
ance of a test-tube, for his Alma Mater in
those days was not provided with a “lab.”
For over 40 years he was Professor of
Chemistry at Adelaide, and hundreds of
students first learnt to fear, then respect and
finally revere him. The legend, passed down
by successive generations of undergrads, that
“Dad” never smiled was very far from
the truth. Last year he was installed as
president of the Australasian Association for
the Advancement of Science, and also as pre-
sident of the Australian Chemical Institute.
Apart from chemistry, fishing was his hobby.
Robert Stout, of Maoriland, recently cele-
brated the fiftieth anniversary of the day
he kissed his bride, Annie Logan. There
never was a better-matched couple, though
he was 32 and she just turned 18 when they
set up housekeeping together. She was a
daughter of John Logan, a staunch Presby-
terian, well furnished with lands and gear—
Lake Logan, where the exhibition was held,
was named after him. She loved Robert
from the time she was 15, and wrote him
letters that contained at least as much of
comment on current politics as they did of
love. The capture of Annie for his own is
probably Stout’s most-prized achievement.
A fine Australian was John Moyes, dead
in Adelaide at 68. He was born at Parra-
matta (N.S.W.). and as a youth played
against Shaw’s English XI for an XVIII
of the Orange district. He joined the South
Aus. Education Department in 18S2, and
worked up to the top. He was a great force
in the Schoolteachers’ Union and the Head-
masters’ Association; and among his sons
are an archdeacon, a commander in the Navy
and the N.S.W. cricketer.
There is always the welcome of an old
pal at E. J. and Dan Carroll shows for
Dr. Bradfield when he can spare time from
the Sydney city railway and bridge construc-
tion jobs. The Carrolls and Bradfield were
schoolboys together in Ipswich (Q.), where
the engineer’s father was a railway worker;
the son earned his own way, through scholar-
ships. The Carrolls’ course was through a
produce business to an early interest in
picture-shows. Another member of the old
schoolboy company was Jimmy Blair, now
Queensland Chief Justice.
Bishop Crick, of Rockhampton (Q.),
recently had a look at some of his flock in
the vicinity of the sapphire fields of Central
Bananaland. At Emerald he paused to put-
tile Anglican brand on the local cleanskins.
His bag in one home ranged from grandma
to an eight-year-old grandson; in between
came the mother, three aunts, two uncles and
four cousins.
Edmund Sullivan, a 25-year-old R.C. priest
who has just returned to Kalgoorlie, his home
town, is nominated as the Empire’s youngest
D.D. He is also a Ph.D.
George Searcy, dead in Adelaide at 72,
was cousin to the better-known Arthur and
Alfred, of South Aus. George was promi-
nent as a young man in the East Melbourne
Cricket Club; he moved to Adelaide over
40 years ago, and did good work as cricket
umpire, football official and accountant.
One of Thursday Island’s pioneers dis-
appeared the other day when old David Mills
got the last call. In the days when T.I. was
in the making and pearl-shelling was some-
thing to flutter in, Davey set up boat-slips
and put in good work. But he lived to see
the whole of the ship-building business pass
into Japanese hands.
Yic. Upper House is hard up for lawyers.
As Donald Mackinnon is still comparatively
young-looking, although he is getting on for
(iS, lie is spoken of as one possibility. R. G.
Menzies is another —if he is not picked for
the Supreme Court Bench. Neither would
have to wait long for a portfolio.
Neil Galbraith, dead in Dunedin (M.L.),
came to Australia as manager of the original
All Black football team in 1905. A brother,
Percy, was well known to the last genera-
tion of Queenslanders as an officer of the
famous Black Police.
“Muggins, .Tun.”: Just celebrated his
“golden” wedding, the Rev. Thomas Quin-
ton, of Leopold (Vic.), the oldest clergyman
at work in the Melbourne diocese. Three
Sundays of the month he drives a buggy and
pair 14 miles, and conducts three services,
and on the fourth Sunday travels 24 miles
unperturbed by bad weather or bad roads.
He is 80.
R. F. O’Bryen, retired the other day from
his job as stock inspector at Toowoomba,
comes of Irish sporting stock, and has car-
W. G. MAHONY,
who is resigning
the Dailey seat in
the House of Reps,
to make room for
Theodore, ex-
Premier of
Queensland.
ried on its tradi-
tions. An accident
in the hunting field
in Ireland inter-
rupted his veteri-
nary studies at
Dublin College,
and a medical re-
commendation that
he should lead an
open-air life sent
him to Banana-
land, where he be-
came famous as an
amateur rider and
owner of some of
the finest hacks
known in the
State. Moscow,
Talisman and
W rangle belonged
to him. His father
owned The Lamb,
the great ’chaser
that won the Liver-
P o o 1 Grand
National twice in
succession.
The nearest modern approach to the old
missionary friars who padded the hoof
across Asia in the Dark Ages is E. A. Gollan,
one-time membership secretary of Melbourne
Y.M.C.A. With£2o in his pocket, he worked his
passage to Honolulu, where he earned enough
at various jobs to take him to the Y.M.C.A.
World College at Springfield (U.S.A.).
Working in garages, shops and farms, he
won enough to pay for a four-year course
and buy a motor-cycle. On the motor-cycle
he set out to work his way back to Aus-
tralia. His finances were low when he was
run over by a motor-car; he spent three months
in hospital and was awarded handsome
damages. With this unexpected windfall he
went to a conference in Finland, visited 23
European countries, looked at the Balkans
and Gallipoli, and returned to Australia as
welfare officer on the Bendigo. His motive
for the little jaunt was to fit himself for an
executive position in the new Y.M.C.A. build-
ing in Melbourne.
When Con. Wallace, M.H.R. for West
Sydney, made way for Tom Ryan, Theo-
dore’s then leader, he was given a small Bris-
bane wharf job by way of recompense, and.
returning to contest the West Sydney selec-
tion ballot on Ryan’s death, was cynically
passed out—to die broke a few months after-
wards. Will Bill Mahony, who makes way
for Theodore, see that better provision is
made in his case?
A Maorilander who suffered a lot before
his death was Joseph Myers, of a Hebrew
family well known in Wellington. Things
started to happen to him when he crossed
over to Canada 15 years ago and became
interested in goldmining. He was the pro-
moter and subsequently managing director
of the Bingo Goldmining Co. in Manitoba.
“What —-drunk as usual?"
“No — hi c -drunker.”
and a couple of years ago some disgruntled
shareholders accused him of having salted the
property. The case was fought with tremen-
dous bitterness, and was decided only a few
weeks ago .wholly in Myers’s favor. The
Manitoba newspapers that recorded the ver-
dict also contained the defendant’s obituary
notice. An attack of influenza carried hinr
off. “Micky” Myers, Maoriland’s leading
K.C. now that Skerrett has mounted the
Bench, was a younger brother, and he got
the news while appearing before the Privy
Council in London.
It has always been the proud boast of the
Adelaide furniture-man B. M. Matthias that
tuppence was all he had left in his pockets
when he stepped ashore in Australia 48 years
ago, and as a matter of necessity he took
the first job that offered—carting furniture
at 16s. per week for Pengelleys. He grew
with the job, became manager, and helped
the firm to become one of the biggest furni-
ture-making concerns in the Commonwealth.
Then he opened up for himself, and has since
established another big business on similar
lines. Now, at 67 years old, he has returned
on a rich-man’s holiday to his little native
town of Llanelly, in Wales, and, according
to the cables, is telling Britain what a man
may do for himself in this land of oppor-
tunity.
The Messenger family, well known to all
N.S.W. sailing and rowing men, and better
known to a much wider public by the
achievements of “Dally” and Wally on the
football field, lost one of its original Aus-
tralian members when Herbert Henry Mes-
senger (“Dally,” his nephew, was named
after him) died at the age of 64. The
family traces _ back its genealogy through
many generations of Thames watermen- —
incidentally, a waterman in a Dryden play
was named Messenger. The just-dead man’s
father was winner of many Thames sculling
champions, and barge-master to Queen Vic-
toria, and his brother had charge of the
boats in the Livingstone expedition that
went in search of Stanley. Herbert Mes-
senger was a handicap sculler of note, but
never aspired to championship honors.
Father Geer, lately a professor at the
R.C. Ecclesiastical College at Springwood
(N.S.W.), has been transplanted io
Katoomba. This is the cleric who created
a stir 15 years ago by ’verting to the
Roman fold. At the time he was a well-
liked minister serving at All Saints’, Wool-
lahra, with an uncle well up amongst Angli-
can dignitaries.
“Schnorrer”: The Duchess of St. Albans,
who died lately, married a step higher into the
British peerage than any other Jewess,
although the Bernal family to which she
belonged had abandoned the Jewish faith.
Her ancestor was Jacob Israel Bernal, a
West Indian merchant, who quarrelled with
his Synagogue in 1744. His son, although
remaining a Jew himself, brought up his
children as Christians. Seventy years ago
there was a fight, ultimately successful, to
secure the admission of Jews to the British
Commons; but long before that Ralph Ber-
nal, who had abjured the faith of his fathers,
represented the City of London in Parlia-
ment. His son, who took the additional
name of Osborne, was also an M.P. and
father of the late Duchess.
THE VIGIL OF THE KNIGHT.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“McCubbin’s life-sized painting of the late Samuel
McCaughev now hangs in the vestibule of the Yanco
Agricultural High School, which during his life-
time was North Yanco homestead and the old
knight’s home.”
1 think he listens to the tramp
Of phantom horses racing by,
While swiftly skimming overhead
A passing airman flecks the sky.
He scans the hills that skirt the plain
Where roamed his herds and spread his flocks,
And sees a thousand gleaming roofs,
And hears the chiming of the clocks.
And wistfully he vainly seeks
The belts of gum and cypress-pine;
But where they stood is waving wheat
And orange grove, and trellised vine.
He sees the great grey chimneys rear
And belch their rolling curls of smoke,
And hears the hissing of the steam
Where his sleek oxen strained the yoke.
On gable high above his head
A gaping weathercock is set,
And golden sunsets of the west
Beam in a tiny minaret.
Strong-faced and resolute, he waits—
When all have gone he’ll wait alone,
And well content to guard the walls
Till they may crumble stone by stone.
N.S.W.
JIM GRAHAME.


O
V-
<o
m
m
a
H
m
v~
o
m
m
m
m
co
m
&
o
m
o
<o
%
m
m
10
m
mm
S
w
wll
b»i
m
mm
WiVi
»
i
i
m
Wm
Q
u
v
&
fm
m
m
(hz
w.v
m
m
m
m
m
m
m
&
m
tf
a


©
sdf
Look for »h* Trademark! A genu Everywhere.
Write for Illustrated Catalogue.
The Ever-Ready Co. (Gt. Britain) Ltd.
163 Pitt Street, Sydney
«
m
SHIRTS
COLLARS
PYJAMAS
"Good Pfellah
Chri&mas Gifts”
Jack Calling!
m
hJ
I
to EVERY MAR in Aus-
tralia who can RIDE.
LET ME PUT YOU WISE
ABOUT SADDLES. I was
the FIRST man to
make .a real strong
stock saddle that
will stand Station
Wear. And the
GENUINE
WIENEKE
is recognised to be
the best Saddle in
the World to-day.
My New Book is
writing for. Post
TO YOU. WRITE
worth
FREE
NOW.
Jack Wieneke,
THE EXPERT SADDLER,
371 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
AND AT
432 Queen Street, Brisbane.
ABORIGINAUTIES
MADE IN AUSTRALIA
BARNES LINSEED OIL
PERHAPS HE KNEW MORE THAN THE INSPECTOR.
SCHOOL INSPECTOR: “You should always finish your sentences, my hoy. You know what
that means, don’t you?”
BOY: “Yes, sir; it means your father comes home, an’ you get a larrupin’.”
“Ida D.”: Some Abos. have been debat-
ing whether a horse will, or can, recognise
horses or other animals in pictures. Well,
I can vouch for this. At the corner of
Goldsmith and Auburn streets, Goulburn,
there is, or was, a large hoarding depicting
a charging buffalo. My father and I were
driving past this one day, and our horse eyed
it fearfully and then shied violently. He
was not a young, frisky horse either, but
an old, seasoned stager who had been doing
stock work for years.
“Rmel”: Some shears ago, in the Warrack-
nabeal (Yic.) district, I knew an old chest-
nut horse which, like “Black Tracker’s” mes-
senger (B. 2/12/’26), could be trusted to
do a familiar trip alone. His owner was
working on the road two or three miles from
home, but if he wanted supplies taken to
or from the house he could trust Dobbin
to draw them in the cart. When the load was
on, and the horse’s head turned in the right
direction, lie made steadily for the spot.
Once only, through turning too short at the
corner and running a wheel into a post,
did the chestnut fail to deliver his goods,
and then lie waited patiently until some-
one came alone to back him off the obstacle.
When the children were old enough to go
to the nearest school, four and a half miles
away, he was selected as the most suitable
steed for their use. I remember him well,
for, the eldest child being only seven and
there being no big boys in that rural school,
I was obliged to harness him up each after-
noon. His appearance was unique, for, owing
to a too close acquaintance with barbed wire
in liis early life, his ears had withered off.
“X2X”: There’s nothing unusual in a
tom-cat killing and eating his new-born kit-
tens (B. 30/12/’26). It is a circumstance
which occurs with other species, even some
primitive humans being given to the slaying
and the devouring of their offspring. There
are many biological hypotheses to account
for the habit, and probably the one which
comes nearest the bull’s-eye is that which
explains it on purely economic grounds-
the male animal, invariably the food-provider
of the family, fears that there will not be
enough tucker to go round if all survive, and
so he limits the local population.
“Ailuros” : The truth about tom-cats eat-
ing their newly-arrived kittens has been
known to cat-students since Noah embarked
the two original members of the species
on board the Ark. If “Porangi” is interested
he can find out many things about these
fascinating animals that are not widely
known, things that will perhaps enable him
to understand why the semi-mystical Egypt-
ians worshipped cats while the hard-headed
and materialistic Scots burnt them. A cat
does nothing without good reason, and differs
therein from every other animal usually
described as “intelligent”—dogs and horses
particularly—which do things because they
are told to. For all a dog’s so-called intelli-
gence no one ever yet taught one to keep
clean. A cat does it without being taught,
and for au excellent reason.
* * * *
“AdeL.”: An interesting little amphibian
inhabiting the streams in the Gulf Country
is a small species of water-rat, fairly abun-
dant, yet rarely seen, being nocturnal in its
habits. It lives almost entirely on fresh-
water mussels. During the night, with its
long, pointed nose, it systematically ploughs
the mud and sand in the shallow water
where the bivalves secrete themselves. It
piles the captives in small heaps on the
water-edge, and there extracts the fish from
the shells. Does the Council know how it
does this? It seems an impossible feat for
so small an animal. The numerous heaps
of shells neatly arranged on moss-covered
shelves along the running water testify to
the number of mussels it destroys.
“Geoloin” : A par. of mine about an intelli-
gent bullock appeared in B. 18/11/’26 and
one from “Wang" on the same theme in
B. 9/12/’26. Being curious as to which
animal would be considered the more intelli-
gent by an expert, I took the two cuttings
and a couple of bottles of beer to an oxen
persuader of many years’ standing, for his
opinion. Old Dan appeared to be more
interested in the beer than in either of the
pars., but, after dealing with the liquor, he
read the printed matter, and said: “I serpose
your two blokes think their bullicks wus orful
clever?” “I think they were, Dan,” I re-
plied. “Well, I’ll tell yer they’s only ordi-
nary bullicks alongside o’ any o' mine. I
wns once doin' up me waggon when the
wheel slipped an' rolled on me leg, hreakin'
it at the ankle, so I whistles up Nugget, one
of me polers, who wus feedin’ near by. He
comes over an’ ’as a look an’ sees ’ow
OH, HARD HEART!
THR MANAGER (paying over the insurance cheque) : “This is your third fire. We can’t
take any further risks of yours.”
CINDERVISKI : “ Vot! You vould take the precud out of mine children’s mouths!”
things wus. ’E didn’t go cookin’ johnny-
cakes, or killin’ snakes or gatherin’ firewood,
or messin’ erbout fer a coupla days, an’ 'is
boss lyin’ in pain, not ’e. ’E just ’ooks ’is
’orn in me belt an’ takes me inter town ter
the quack, a matter o’ five miles or more.
Now that’s what I call a real intelligent
bul lick.”
* * * *
“A.G.C.” : Can any Abo. tell me how to
free dogs from ticks? I have tried unsuc-
cessfully all sorts of dope, including tallow
and kerosene, sulphur, dips and so on.
“Billy See”: Is there any limit to the
depth to which the roots of a tree may pene-
trate into the ground? Back in 1902, when
working a show on the famous Ivanowna
pug (W.A.), we often found fine gold crusted
round tiny rootlets which spread through
the pug. A Mines Department geologist in-
formed us that the roots, being carbonaceous
matter, precipitated the gold from solution.
Further investigation showed that the root-
lets came right down from trees growing on
the surface 70ft. overhead.
* * * *
“Carisbrook, .Tun.”: I was bitten by a
death-adder nine months ago and am still
alive. But can any Abo. tell me what’s the
cause of the blisters that have broken out
on my foot every three months since, and
is there any cure for them? Also, am I
going to die when 12 months are up, as some
kind-hearted people have told me I shall?
“Hod”: The strongest liquor
I have ever heard of was de-
scribed to me by Mick the Cane-
cutter, who knew something
about such things. According
to him it was made in one of
the sugar districts of northern
Queensland. “Bein’ a stranger
in the districk,” he told me, “I
wuz walkin’ along wonderin’
where I could get a booze, w’en
I comes ter a little bit uv a
shanty standin’ back orf the
road. A thirsty-lookin’ blolts
goes in ahead uv me, an’ the
girl behind ther bar serves ’im
first. She puts down a bottle
uv rum, a glass and a clo'es-
brusli in front uv ther bloke,
an’ I watches ter see ’ow ’e'd
take it. ’E fills the glass erbout
arf-full, swallows it an’ then
falls flat on ther floor. Gettin’
up again, he reaches fer ther
brush, knocks ther dust orf
’imself, an’ goes out. Then
ther girl sees me, an’ pushes
ther bottle an’ glass an’ brush
over. ‘Ther same fer you?’ she
ses; but I’m off ther clo’es-
brush brand.”
“Saaedi”: In Australia the grazier is a
person of financial and social tonnage, but
in Palestine he doesn’t amount to much.
Pastoralists there are usually Bedouins, a
pacific race, who are regarded with con-
tempt by the fighting Arabs. During the
Great War a cobber and myself were con-
versing one day with an Arab in Cairo,
when the latter questioned us concerning
our pre-war occupations. My mate Bill was
rather proud of the fact that his dad was a
big man in the sheep business, and he
hastened to explain to our dusky acquaint-
ance that he used to-run sheep. A look of
intense scorn came into the Arab's face, and
lie spat at Rill's feet. “Ugh,” he said con-
temptuously, “Bedouin !” Then drawing his
filthy robes more closely around him he
turned away. It was well done, and' even
after Bill had kicked him three times in the
stern, the “Bedouin” declared ruefully that
he still felt the blighter had had the best
of it.
*****
“Diggernum Ole”: During the last few
months the locality in which I live, situated
in the far north-west of N. S. Wales, has
been the home of thousands of seagulls and
of another bird very similar in appearance.
These birds came in with the Bulloo River
floodwaters about last May, and are appa-
rently from off the Queensland coast. The
floodwater has now dried up. but hundreds
of the birds still remain on the tanks, and
I often see them five miles from water feed-
ing in the plains and on the sandhills. As
this locality must be at least 700 miles off
the eastern coast, I think it must be a
record distance for sea-fowl to be inland.
* * * *
“Longo”: The Aussie axeman can strike
trouble without going to M.L. to chop the
tree with the unpronounceable name men-
tioned by “Riverina” (B. 9/12/’26). In
the scrub areas of the South Burnett (Q.)
the glass-wood tree still grows in the inter-
ests of the Yankee axe-manufacturer. In
felling these trees, which fortunately seldom
exceed 12in. in diameter, the only way to
save a sharp axe from destruction is to chop
with very light blows, having the under-cut
of the scarf sloping upwards at an acute
angle, and even then I have seen valuable
THOSE PICNIC LUNCHEONS.
FIRST .CANNIBAL : The chief's very crook with ptomaine
poisoning.”
SECOND DITTO : “It’s his own fault. I warned him that
that last cove he ate lived in a tin house.”
axes ruined. The contractors for the felling
of one large area of scrub, after continued
disaster, solved the problem by using a cross-
cut saw for levelling the glass-woods, even
where they were only three inches in
diameter.
KNIGHT-ERRANT.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Soft sleeps the township’s one long street
By summer sun caressed,
As slow you pass on lagging feet,
Face set to bournes unguessed ;
And men who beaten paths had fled
For far lone ways untried,
Ghosts of knights-errant long since dead,
Your shadowy escort ride.
Oh, brave through hist’ry’s page they ride,
Knights-errant, lance in rest,
Helmed, armored, spurred, good sword at side,
Wide through the world tliej r quest.
But you ride not in mailed state,
Knight-errant of to-day,
Like Galahad the celibate,
Or Lancelot bold and gay.
Friendless as rode those knights of old,
Yet daily finding friends,
So do you learn what earth can hold
Kre the long journey ends.
Your home a camp-fire by the way,
Chance shade of kindly roof ;
Yours are the feet that cannot stay,
Doomed aye to march aloof;
Through bushland sweet with wattle-gold,
By capeweed-gilded trail,
When honey-cups the box-trees hold,
Or chill is winter’s hail;
Through parching dus't or clogging mud,
’Neath hot blue skies or grey,
The old lure whisp’ring through your blood,
You plod upon your way.
Of weight of memories you pack
God only knows the tale
As, Steadfast on your lonely track,
You seek your vanished Grail;
That Grail, scarce-glimpsed, whose subtle spell
Can hold a life in thrall,
Instinct with promised Heav'n —or Hell —
You follow on through all.
VICTORIA.
EMEL.


Hundreds of Thousands of
u
□
I
G
were made and sold in Australia during 1926, and yet we
were unable to satisfy the demand for more Dunlops.
Increased Plant and more Australian Artisans
will be required to enable us to cope with the call
for more Dunlop covers and tubes during 1927.
Highest quality materials, best workmanship and ample
rubber and fabric to withstand many thousands of miles
of hard driving—have made “Dunlop” easily the most
serviceable and popular on Australian roads.
( ""‘Vfwio o
V(& J fi'ffl'j ®„0 _©■
id ®
® 0)
5*
v\
r.
\
1
OUNIOP
TYRES
1
ii,
ii,
JL
O*
.
&
ii
£
,
\
A
\
Mil
\
X
mil 4
< *aJ»
IV
Garages stock them
DUNLOP RUBBER CO.
of Aust Ltd.
AH Statfci and N.Z.


MARTELLS
BRANDY
For Over Two Hundred Years
a household word in sickness
and health*
i
Martell’s for Age and Quality
From the Cognac District
of France only .
cr.
w
i.S“3
&
gpG i WORTH
“ EXTRA m
HIGH GRADE
SMOKING TOBACCO
Australian Agents: R. TOWNS & CO., SYDNEY.
“Retired Lunatic”: In my street lives a
man who knows all about dogs. The other
day a dog-hater passed through the street
and left a trail of poisoned animals behind
him. The expert in canine matters pre-
scribed for three of the suffering hounds by
cutting nicks in their ears so that the toxin
would run out. They all survived. The
owner of the fourth refused to submit it to
STIFF LUCK.
“What did YOU get at Christmas, jackie?”
“The mumps.”
the operation and it died. Was the dog-
man merely a witch doctor or a scientist, or
was it just luck?
4f * * *
“Herodot” : Does the glass bottle cause bush
fires as frequently as is generally supposed?
On a recent hot day a series of tests was
carried out. Although the paper used w r as
very inflammable, it was not ignited once
in seven attempts. The closest result was to
scorch it brown after 21i. 30min. of continu-
ous concentration through the broken heel of
a white-glass bottle, the kind reckoned most
dangerous in the bush. In the majority of
the other tests the paper was not even dis-
colored, nor did a microscopic inspection
reveal that any changes had occurred in it.
“Emel” : Another method of woolly aphis
extermination (B. 23/12/'26) is to spray
the affected trees when leafless with a solu-
tion of 61b. of washing-
soda and 41b. of bluestone to
50 gallons of water, as used
for the winter spraying of
peach-trees. Mixed among
our peach bearers are several
Ilokewood apple-trees, which,
as orchardists know, are
peculiarly susceptible to the
attacks of woolly aphis.
These, which are sprayed
with the soda-bluestone solu-
tion at the same time as the
peaches, are remarkably free
from the pest. We find this
a much more effective means
of checking woolly aphis
than the usual plan of
adding either tobacco or the
more up-to-date nicotine sul-
phate to the ordinary spray-
ing solution of arsenate of
lead.
“Billy See” : A Fremantle
angler was fishing in Cock-
burn Sound for skipjack and
tailer. Taking two linked
hooks he baited them with
a thick strip of mullet. The
bait was taken before touch-
ing bottom, but, on attempt-
ing to pull in, the gut line
snapped. Three weeks later,
fishing on the same reef, he
landed a 101 b. snapper, and
hanging from its posterior
vent were the two big hooks
the angler had lost. The
linked hooks, which mea-
sured quite four inches, had
evidently passed through the
fish’s gut and been dis-
charged with the exception
of the final barb, which had
caught as the vent con-
tracted. A patch of inflam-
mation the size of half a
crown showed that nature
was preparing to free the
fish of its final encumbrance.
* * *
“rick”: Here is the shearing record for
the N.S.W. 1926 season, and the year that
beats it has not yet rolled away its wool.
At Wondong station, in seven and a half
hours, 2472 jumbucks were undressed. The
ringer, Fitzsimmons, a Mudgee man, poured
out 332, his runner-up cleared 316, and Herb
Healey cut out one less. Bill McLean, 299;
Bede Donnelly, 273; and Arnold, 249, also
shore. The slowest tomaliawker on the
board accounted for a mere 176.
* r . * * *
‘TJnity”: Has any Abo. writer come up
against the superstition that the hedgehog
is unlucky? I
picked up a fine
specimen outside
Captain’s Flat, be-
yo n d Braidwood
(N.S.W.)', t h e
other day, and, to
earn the gratitude
of a city friend
who inclines to
garden pets, I col-
lected the spiky
one and placed him
carefully in the
car. About an hour
later another car,
pursuing an erratic
course, met me in
a smashing em-
brace and made my
’bus look like the
aftermath of a tor-
nado. The local
law-keeper arrived
to take a few notes,
and found the som-
nolent hedgehog the
only unperturbed
passenger. He
paused and eyed
me with intense
scorn. “You might
know,” lie said
scathingly, “that
something'd ha p-
pen with one o'
them things in the
car. Didn’t you ever hear that hedgehogs
is unlucky?” Has anyone?
* * * *
“Lao-dah”: The likeliest explanation of
“Clerk’s” burning gum, it seems to me, is
that it was lighted before the flood rose.
Travelling at night on a timber drogher
down the Myall River (N.S.W.), we passed
a largo gum blazing beautifully. The skip-
per told me it had been fired by a farmer,
and that it had served him (the skipper)
for a lighthouse on a very tricky bend for
three weeks.
* # * *
“E.S.”: Gum-leaves make a healthy doss
for anyone who has chest or back complaints,
Binghi recognised that ages ago. A patient
with a severe cold was put by Dr. Budgeree
on a bed of eucalyptus-leaves, heated with
stones, and was then covered up with rugs.
THE CONVERT.
MISSION GIRL : “You'll be sure and come to the mission
to-night? A service will be held at seven o'clock
and supper at nine.”
BOY FROM THE BUSH : “Right! I won't be a minute
after nine.”
The heat sweated the cold out of him, and,
at the same time, his body absorbed the
eucalyptus. Poultices were also made of the
leaves, partly boiled, and put on as hot as
the patient could bear them; and bruised
gum-leaves were bound over wounds to heal
them. The bruising was sometimes done
with stones) sometimes with the grinding
jaws of the apothecary’s assistant.
* * * *
“Toby C.”: There are millions of fleas
here on the Queensland section of the Bris-
bane-Kyogle construction job, and many of
the most hardened battlers have been driven
to drink. All the boosted flea-banisliers have
failed, and the navvy womenfolk talk fleas
when they meet at the water-tank. Can any
member of the Council suggest a really
effectual remedy? We want something that
spells death —and no toying with the matter.
“Omega”: The explana-
tion of the clockwise spin of
whirlwinds offered by “Ven-
turino” (B. 23/12/’2(5) is far
from satisfactory. He lias con-
fined his remarks to two
points: the cause of the
clockwise spin of cyclones
and the fact that whirlwinds
are miniature cyclones. While
the offspring shows a family
resemblance to the parent,
there are vital differences.
In the case of a cyclone, the
disturbance covers a vast
area, whereas a whirlwind
is confined to a comparatively
small spot. Again the move-
ment of a cyclone is gov-
erned by the prevalent winds
of the hemisphere—n.-e. in
the tropics and s.-e. in the
temperate zone whilst
whirlwinds are driven in the
direction of the particular
local breeze at the time blow-
ing. quite irrespective of the
point of the compass from
which it blows. Why, then,
does the whirlwind revolve
from left to right both when
travelling from west to east
and also when moving from
east to west? It certainly
does not seem to be caused
by the earth's rotation.
“X2X” : In desperation the orchardists of
the Manly and Newport districts (N.S.W.)
recently organised a grand battue of flying-
foxes, which was attended by scores of
shooters armed with double-barrelled guns.
Though several resorts of the pests were
attacked, and at least 20 to 30 thousand of
the creatures slain, the slau ,r hter" does not
seem to have markedly diminished their num-
bers. One wonders why the attackers did
not use some toxic gas, such as chlorine,
which is cheap and easily prepared, and
may be used without danger to humans. It
would kill hundreds where guns account for
single foxes only. A few applications, in-
deed, would certainly wipe out entire colo-
nies. The cost would be very small, pro-
bably less than the damage half a dozen
foxes can do in a single night.
“Kooragai”: If the North Coasters ever
get control of their own fertile bit of N. S.
Wales they will open up the little-known
caves in the Dorrigo hills. There is a
wonderland there that will some day rival
Jenolan and Yarrangobilly. The caves at
present are inhabited by myriads of bats.
The. ages-old accumulation of their manure
covers the floors in immense piles, and w T hen
the way is opened up for a clean-out, some-
body will get a good divvy from the fertiliser.
The main thing at present against the caves
becoming immediately popular, even if made
easier to reach, is this bat ordure, which
smells to Heaven.
* * * *
“Redraw”: I never knew until the other
days that snakes were considered weather
prophets. During the recent long dry spell
snakes were very plentiful on our river
frontage. Talking to an abo. a few days
before the drought broke, I asked him, “How
long you think before rain?” He said, “Two
or three days. All the snakes going back
quick.” The rain came four days after-
wards.
* * * #
“Chlor” : If about half a million “Koor-
agis” made a start, by voluntary and united
effort, Australia might have a world’s record
in leafy avenues. We have the most beauti-
ful of' the world’s flowering forest trees.
Take the W.A. orange-flowering oak (Christ-
mas-tree), with its long sprays of vividly-
cojored and closely-packed blossoms; the
crimson-, scarlet- and rose-colored eucalypts
that when in flower transform King’s Park
and Mount Eliza at Perth into one of the
most colorful areas of the world. The South
American poinciana is probably the only
other tree on this earth that can touch the
two mentioned for color. Then we have
sycamore, cedar, hoop-pine, the bottle-tree
and a dozen other varieties hardly known
to Australians themselves. We should have
devoted the millions spent in the erection of
insignificant and often ugly soldier-monu-
ments to the planning and planting of
Memorial Avenues.
* * * *
“Cartot”: Many scientists have specu-
lated concerning the origin and significance
of the cat’s cradles which are so popular
; amongst the native people of Northern Aus-
tralia and the Pacific Islands. Possibly the
device may really be a degenerated descen-
dant of a form of communication in vogue
for. some thousands of years from prehis-
toric times. When the Spanish conquista-
dores first reached South America they
found amongst the Incas a method of send-
ling messages by means of pieces of colored
string. By tying knots in these in various
ways it was possible to convey different
meanings, and even intricate sentences could
NOT TIED TO FIFTEEN.
BELLE : “You must think I have no ambition, to stay here
and milk fifteen cous every morning and evening
for the rest of my life!”
BILL : “Oo, no! I was goitern ’ ter buy a few more for you
when we was married.”
be constructed. Also, what were really pic-
tures could be formed with them. As much
of the Inca civilisation came originally
from Asia across the Pacific with the great
culture migrations of the prehistoric ages,
the beginnings of the cat's cradles may have
been dropped by the way, subsequently to
de-'-Aop into the forms in which they now
exist.
GATES: A CURSE.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
[Written, after consultation, to express the opinions
of my fellow bush-travellers.]
If at city life you’re railing,
And you! find your zest is paling
For the city pleasure staling
Till it sates,
You should seek that famous cure-all,
The simple life and rural,
And on lone tracks extra-mural
Meet the gates !
Some have whips of wire to brace ’em—
Often barbed —you’ve got to face ’em ;
Some you lift while you embrace ’em
(And they’re weights) ;
A synod of good clerics
Would burst into bad hysterics
If they travelled, minus derricks,
To those gates.
When you’re through, and donned your coat is,
While your speech unfit to quote is.
Then you spy the “Please Shut” notice,
And it grates;
You must shut, though'you abuse il.
But a jury would excuse it
If you took an axe to use it
On such gates.
Oh, they’re wicked and abasin’
And the trav’ler who would hasten
They harry and they chasten
Till, in straits.
And with rancor—-black, unsmiling—
Those who own them he’s reviling
For their ruddy cheek in styling
Such things “gates!”
Ev’ry man who knows them quite shares
The belief that they’re not light cares,
But a mob of flaming nightmares—
And he states
That they’d drive to drink the dry narks ;
While his cussing would gain high marks,
As his blankies float like skylarks
O’er those gates.
May the cocky or the squatter
Sporting gates that jam or totter
Find a future ever hotter !
May the Fates
Bring him torture in all phases,
Ev’ry pain perdition raises—
Drag the beggar down to blazes
With his gates !
N.S.W.
CECIL POOLE.


Three Vital Facftors in
Livestock Feeding
MEGGITT’S LINSEED MEAL and MEGGITT’S LINSEED SHEEP NUTS differ only in form, one
being in meal form and the other in walnut-sized pieces. In composition and feeding value they are identical
MEGGITT’S MEAL forms part of the rations of 95 per cent, of the Stud Horses, Cattle and Pigs
exhibited in Australia, and is invariably used by feeders of Dairy Cattle on official test.
MEGGITT’S LINSEED SHEEP NUTS were used in the preparation of 95 per cent, of the successful
exhibits at the last Sydney Sheep Show, and over 15,000 tons of this food were consumed by Australian
flocks during 1926. This in itself is remarkable testimony of feeding value, and represents the greatest
achievement towards ’fodder conservation in the history of the Commonwealth.
The remarkable popularity of these foods is due to the results they secure. These results are in turn due
to a combination of three valuable qualities, which are:
(a) Richness in Mineral Matter. (b) Richness in Protein. (c) Richness in Oil
MINERAL MATTER is necessary to all forms of production and growth. MEGGITT’S MEAL and
SHEEP NUTS are rich in combinations of Calcium, Potash, Sodium, Chlorine, Magnesium, Sulphur, Iron
and Phosphorus.
PROTEIN governs the formation of all lean meat, wool, hair, hide, hoofs, horn, organs, the secretion of
milk and the repair of muscular wear and tear.
TThe following graph shows the percentage of
Digestible Protein in Meggitt’s Meal compared
with other foods, and illustrates its tremendous
superiority in this respect,
Pollard —-Beau
Oski
'CxixUy
Claim Hav
MeUftd
30% 12.5 10.6 9.2
ULtinCß
Feeders are warned that all protein is not digest-
ible. Feathers contain 84% protein, but are not
a food. When we refer to protein in Meggitt’s
Meal, we refer to protein which is available to
the animal.
OIL. The oil contained in MEGGITT’S MEAL is Linseed Oil. Nevens, Alleman and Peck have recently
succeeded in increasing both the butter-fat content and yield of milk by adding LINSEED OIL. to a
ration. Linseed Oil is medicinal as well as nutritious, and by its action on the digestive tract is cooling in
effect. This oil content is invaluable for all stock at all times, be it summer or winter, for it causes: —
(a) Improved Digestion; (b) Perfect Food Assimilation; (c) Regularity of Habit; (d) Sleek, glossy
Coats; (e) Improved Powers of Resistance to Disease; (f) Perfect Health.
Any deficiency in oil content, therefore, must mean definite loss to the feeder.
It is important to see that, when ordering, you obtain the genuine Meggitt’s Meal or Sheep Nuts.
The season is fast approaching when practically all stock will require supplementary food. If carried out
correctly, the feeding will pay for itself and then show" a handsome profit.
We are in a position to offer you the most authentic data on all feeding matters. Should you contemplate
feeding your sheep write to Meggitt’s, who will advise you on the most successful and profitable methods.
If you are feeding Horses, Dairy Cattle, Calves, Pigs or Poultry and are doubtful of the “balance” or
efficiency of your rations, Meggitt’s will put your rations on a correct scientific basis. When writing on
feeding matters kindlv give all possible information, such as breed of animals, foods available, condition
of pasture, etc. Valuable literature is also obtainable upon request.
MEGGITT
NEW SOUTH WALES—Head Office: 26 King Street,
Sydney.
VICTORIA —Meggitt Limited, P.O. Box 4510, Spencer
Street, Melbourne.
S. AUSTRALIA —Elder, Smith & Co., Ltd., Adelaide.
W. AUSTRALIA —Messrs. Wm. Adams & Co., Ltd.,
Perth.
■M **. :
% 1 ZMFw
LIMITED
QUEENSLAND —Messrs. Denhams, Ltd., Brisbane;
Messrs. Denham Bros., Ltd., Rockhampton; Messrs,
Corser & Co., Maryborough; Messrs. Cummins &
Campbell, Ltd., Townsville and Cairns.
TASMANIA—Messrs. F. W. Heritage & Co. Pty., Ltd.,
Hobart and Launceston.


Under
Royal
Warrant
sdf
To H.M.
Kin 6
George V
Vintage 1917. /
CHAMPAGNE {
Australasian Agents
Swift & Company Limited
SYDNEY.
champagne
c «arie s Heidsicdc
Reims
jj)
PELLISSON
Cognac Brandy.
lO YEARS OLD.
Australasian Agrents—
SWIFT & COMPANY LIMITED, Sydney.
\
i! ,i .ifi*
p'll"
3
WHERE YOU’LL
ALWAYS STAY IN SYDNEY—
The
Wentworth Hotel
Steam-Heated in
Winter.
Air-Cooled in
Summer.
Cuisine
Unparalleled
Australasia.
THE ENCHANTING CAFE.
The Wentworth Cafe is world famous as the beautiful and picturesque
rendezvous of Sydney’s social set.
The Wentworth Symphonic Dance Band plays divine music afternoon and
night. A delightful cabaret of charming artists.
8W1361 for reservations.
nmwm
SYDNEY.
The Finest Restaurant and Dance
Rendezvous in Australasia.
PATRONAGE CONTINUALLY INCREASING.
Capacity: Dining and Supper Dances up to 1000.
For Wedding Receptions, Banquets, Dining and
Supper Dances, inquiries to Manager.
Mon., Tues.,-Wed., Fri., Dining de Luxe, 7.30,
1/6; Suppers, 10.30, 5/6. Value and satis-
faction without equal. No charge for three
hours’ dancing on satin-smooth spring floors —
a new thrill of real delight.
Thurs. and Sat. Late Gala Nights. Continental
Dinner from 7.30, 21/-. Suppers, 10.30. 12/6.
This evening in London costs £2/2/- upwards.
PEERLESS ORCHESTRA OF TEN.
Bewitching Cabaret; not on dull moment.
Deiightful Afternoon Teas, 3.30 to 5.30, 5/-
Two hours’ entertainment of Sheer Delight.
Order Wines before 6 p.m. Ring M. 3666.
WOMAN'S
LETTER
SAY
Kayser
SILK OR
CHAMOISETTE
GLOVES
So feeble was Tirranna on its 72nd birth-
day that it is not likely to pass its century
unless it is re-glanded. The just-ended meet-
ing is said by the oldest inhabitant to have
been the poorest on record. The fields for
the two days didn’t average three horses,
and those who didn’t trouble to move out
of the shade to look at the procession of
two nags would have been less bored if
the trophies had been raffled. Some men
looked gloomy in long dust-coats, which con-
cealed the fact that they had put their shirts
on the second (and last) horse in the first
race and took no further interest in the
obsequies. Of course the loss of such men
as Dudley Gibson and A. A. Dalgleish has
given Tirranna a big set-back, but it is surely
up to the younger bloods to take heed of the
club’s president, Lucian Faitlifull, when he
exhorts them not to let such a bit of true
Australia die out. But, truth to tell, Tir-
ranna, with its urban airs and Paris frock-
ing, is as much like the old-fashioned picnic-
race as a pantomime is like the simple fairy-
story from wdiicli it borrows its title.
Of course, all the old sporting families
of the district hung their signs out on the
usual eunyahs, and Sydney’s unhurried hun-
dreds drifted Goulburnwards for the rally.
So the paddocks bloomed exotically and press
photographers clicked busily, though city
newspaper women were conspicuous by their
absence. One of the notables of this year’s
gathering was Dickie Daniel, who met
a chaff-barrage concerning the bathroom
floor with a good-natured grin. It seems
last year, when Dickie, who is tall and thin,
was riding, he scaled 16st. 101 b. with the help
of a leaden vest which had been moulded,
so they say, from part of the bathroom fit-
tings. This year he didn’t ride, and instead
of a leaden vest he brought a charming bride
Mrs. Lucian Faitlifull, the president’s
popular little wife, sustained the first day’s
heat in a lieavily-beadcd black and white
ensemble; and among the sweet things Sur-
geon McCormick’s youngest suggested a
crystallised cherry in her brave reds, topped
by an outsize in white hats. Mrs. Harry Bud-
den, of Brewon, entertained a crowd of Syd-
ney’s young things; and the Cripps Clark
party was stage-managed by son John’s new
wife. Mrs. Charles Peterson came all the way
from far Rabaul to have a peep at the famous
Bachelors’ Bag; and Mrs. Jimmy Gordon’s
swagger-whites, punctured with red eyelet-
holes, looked the coolest thing on the field.
Enid Falkiner, whose horses pulled off two
events, wore the most admired ensemble
present. It was of old Paisley, banded in
straw-colored silk. Her trophies, too, raised
a cheer. They were a whisky-decanter and
glasses and a set of military hair-brushes.
A couple who call for honorable mention are
the .Elwyn Blomfields. He’s the popular
president of the Bong Bong Picnic Race
Club; and she is as picturesque as he is
popular.
The final ball was very gay, the frocks
dazzling, and the decorations very Oriental
—the Showground pavilion was turned for
the event into an Algerian scene. If any-
body was so “up” in the interior decora-
tions of Algiers that he could criticise, he
remained silent, and the effect was all that
could be desired. And this much can be
said for the girls, that they looked just
as pretty having ham and eggs with their
men kind (all still in evening dress and only
just home from the ball) at 6.60 a.m. at
their various hotels. Many of them were
facing an all-day journey, as they were,
hurrying back home owing to the menace of
bush fires. _As it was, several owners had
to drop their teacups on the second after-
noon and rush off to reported fires on their
properties.
The neighboring shire council did its part
m the annual rejoicings by tarring half the
width of the main Southern-road for five
miles and leaving it unsanded. The heat
of Thursday and Friday kept this tar so
Huid that cars were almost smothered and
coats and hats hopelessly ruined.
The newly-returned Henry Braddon couple
told something of their American Odyssey
to eager English-Speaking Unionists at that
society s new club-rooms last week The
party was a double-barrelled affair, combin-
mg a welcome to the wanderers and the
formal opening of the rooms in Frazer
House. After the knight and his lady had
been greeted and compliments exchanged on
the pleasant rooms with their gay chintzes
and their well-selected prints and pictures,
came tea, followed by the formal introduc-
tion of the club as a fully-launched member
of society. But for once Henry Braddon’s
speech was as sounding brass compared with
his lady’s. She described in a vivid way
the new quarters of the English E.-S.U. in
Berkeley-square, and the listener saw in a
flash its marble stairway, its carved wood-
work, its panelling mellow with time; saw,
too, the army of workmen still in happy
occupation, with their wood-shavings and
bolts and screws and bits of plumbing that
are turning the old ducal home of a past
regime into something that will link up
America and England—a sort of suspension
bridge built of the hopes and aspirations
and common ideals of two great nations.
And then, stimulated by a becoming cinna-
mon frock and hat, the lady finished off with
the old joke against Eve, told differently.
Somewhere in America she saw for the first
time an aspen-tree. And as it shimmered
and quivered in the mountain air, somebody
murmured to her its musical Red Indian
name. “And what does that mean in Eng-
lish?” she inquired—and then wished she
hadn’t. It means ‘a woman’s tongue’
never still.”
The party to ex-Mayoress Cecilia Walsh
promises to be one of the crowded events of
next month. It is dated for the third at the
Wentworth. A portrait of Cecilia, to hang
in the Town Hall in the gallery of Mayor-
esses, is the form the citizens’ testimonial
is to take.
Sydney’s new Mayoress, Mrs. Mostyn, made
her earliest official appearances last week.
Her very first party was at the Trades Hall,
where she was the guest-of-honor of the
women employees. Her second bow was
made in rose-beige georgettes over a bouquet
of blue delphiniums and white gladioli at
the cabaret in aid of St. Augustine’s Church,
Balmain.
Surely £1252 is the record harvest from a
dinner dance. This was the amount of the
cheque handed by Cecilia Walsh to the
Mother-General of St. Vincent’s last week,
the result of a September event at the
Ambassadors.
The Museum has just published an extra-
ordinarily beautiful series of Australian-
bird postcards,
and both
scientists and
artists are ex-
claiming over
their perfec-
tions. They
are the work
of the clever
artist in the
picture along-
side. She is
Mrs. Tom Ire-
dale, an Eng-
1i s h girl,
whose English
birds have
been compared
with those of
Thorburn. Her
husband is
Tom Iredale,
con chologist
and ornitholo-
gist attached
to tlie Museum. This unassuming couple
met when Mr. Iredale was compiling with
G. M. Matthews their “Birds of Australia.”
Mrs. Iredale was the artist responsible for
the plates illustrating that work, an amazing
effect being the downy look of the nestlings.
The Millions Club spread the welcome-
home to president Arthur Rickard and his
lady at the Hotel Sydney; and a great sur-
prise was this caravanserai to many who
have only bowed to it from a passing tram
or taxi. There’s an unsuspected ballroom of
great size lurking at the top of the build-
ing, which leads on to a roof garden. Only
the indiscreet among the guests muttered
inquiries as to tlie direction of Campbell-
street and the Haymarket; your real lady
and gentleman spoke of the poetic effect of
moonlight. The knight and daughters Gwen
and Mona were nearly whirled away in a
stream of felicitations, but mother was at
home nursing a sou sick of the measles.
Gwen and Mona, who have done the great
tour with father and mother, wore pink
georgettes, beaded in the newest manner,
which is not too heavily; and their
shoes were the last word, which is black
satin with embroideries. Brooks, M.L.C.,
was the chief toast-maker of the evening:
and, of course, when the guest spoke all the
clouds put ou linings of heavy gold.
Even an intimate knowledge of anatomy
and the precise effect on lungs, heart, kid-
neys and other interior decorations of breath-
ing a heated atmosphere for two or three
hours cannot keep your woman doctor from
indulging in the cabaret. On one of the
hottest afternoons last week half the medi-
cine women of the city gathered at the
Ambassadors to help along the Rachel Fors-
ter Plospital. The equipment of a maternity
ward and an ante-natal clinic was the goal,
and half-way through the afternoon the
treasurer could be visioned skimming down
the clear with every prospect of scoring. A
red-haired jade of a doll masquerading as
Luck sold numbered discs, and if you found
favor with her you later exchanged these for
prizes; but whether you lost or won your
silver bit made the goal a still surer thing
for the treasurer.
Here’s a lady who is helping to populate
Australia with the right sort of immigrant.
She is Mary Wall, and she is secretary for
one of the Fair-
bridge Farm
Schools. These
schools are go-
ing to be one
of Westralia’s
assets if the
subject of this
Ma y Moore
picture can
make them so.
Miss Wall has
just passed
through Syd-
ney on her
way back to
England, where
she hopes to
persuade the
powers that
Fair b ridge
Farm Schools
are the right
thing to estab-
lish in every
State. The boys of the school are trained as
farmers, the girls as domestics, but should a
studious kiddie show signs of talent above the
ordinary, then the higher education is to be
provided. At the head of the school in W.A.
is a real Australian—Padre Frank Hanlin,
M. B.D.—who has been everything from
a timber-hewer in Queensland to a chaplain
with the A.I.F.
Jack had the natural leaning of the Celt
to the Greek classics, and so it came about
that when he arrived in America his cases
bulged with illustrations of “The Iliad.”
American editors admired their imagery, but
wanted pictures to accompany stories about
go-getters, hundred per cent, efficient young
men, and chocolate eclair ladies in organdy.
So Jack worked hard, only breaking off like
a good Australian for his eleven- and four-
o’clock tea, and peopled dozens of magazines
with these fanciful citizens. He drew them
so well that presently editors listened to
him when he said what he’d prefer himself.
Now he has left the human comedy behind
and illustrates stories of the jungle, of
mysticism and of Castilian romance. He
has brought back with him some powerful
works, and of these he will make an exhibi-
tion within the month.
The other afternoon Dattilo Rubbo, Jack
Flanagan’s proud early teacher, beckoned a
group of literary and artistic Sydney into the
Australia Winter Garden to meet the lean
and blushing young man. Old artist friends
like Balfour, John Banks and Charlie Bryant
were in the gathering about the rose-decked
tea tables, and later everybody went up to
Jack’s rooms and had a private view of the
stunning work he has brought back.
Tragedy lias descended on the household
of bird-artist Neville Cayley, whose wife
has been buried with their little daughter.
They were married in 1917.
A Sydney woman in London writes of the
great doings at Sydney-girl Marguerite Mor-
eau’s wedding to Delruar Cavendish, the dash-
ing P. and O. purser who was the subject of a
widely-cabled divorce last year. The wed-
ding was celebrated at the sumptuous fiat of
Dr. Collier, one of the ’groom’s pals. Mar-
guerite looked radiant in brown chiffon
velvet and a large brown hat, and her
bouquet was of mauve and brown-spotted
orchids. Delmar, besides his usual impec-
cable tailorings, sported a white carnation
in his buttonhole, and among the 60 smart-
setters, many of them known to Australia,
who broke bread at the feast, were Mrs.
Ernest Brookes, of Melbourne, wearing mag-
nificent pearls; Garvan Sheridan; P. and
O. notables, including the captain of the
old Maloja; and Edna Tliomas, the enter-
tainer lady.
Probably no bride in Sydney lias had her
wedding-feast amid such a wealth of flowers
as the brand-new Mrs. Herbert J. Solomon
did last week. As Beryl Frost she and her
doctor-groom had exchanged their vows at
St. Francis’s Church in Paddington, and the
wedding meats were spread at Urara, the
N. J. Solomon home at Darling Point. Here
in the reception-rooms were great masses of
prize pink roses, the marquee had thick hedges
of gladioli, and standard pink rose-trees glowed
on every table. With the horticulture were
gold hoops and laurel wreaths and gold satin
streamers and festive Chinese lanterns. The
bride’s dress, too, calls for a note. It was
made with a straight sleeveless coat of
white ninon heavy with silver sequins over
white satin. A jaunty bolero was a feature
ot only ’maid Olga Solomon’s lilac georg-
ette outfit.
Echoes of a two- or three-year-old mystery
are re-awakened by the announcement that
Harold Campbell Macfie is engaged to be
re-married._ Mr. Macfie’s bride-to-be is one
of the city s best looking and most charming
widows. She is Mrs. Florence Moss, of
Darling Point, and she has a way with her
would charm the bird from the lough. Her
only child, Lalla, was married a few weeks
ago to “Billy” Curtis, K.C.
Mrs. Bull has given up being secretary of
the Australian Motliorcraft Society. ‘She
sailed away a week or so ago for England
and matrimony. This time she will be the
wife of Lieut.-Commander Douglas King-
Harman, who is in H.M.S. Carlisle on the
China Station.
Millicent Rennie Lovett, of Warren, and
solicitor Eric Reginald Green, of the same
town, added their engagement to the glad
tidings of Christmas. Millicent is the fourth
daughter of H. W. Lovett, a well-known
Warren solicitor; her own man of law hails
from Dubbo.
Two Killara girls have gleaned engage-
ment-rings far afield. They are Winifred
Baylis, who is to marry Padre John Walker,
of Winnipeg, and her sister Freda, who has
promised to wed another reverend gentle-
man of that most neutral of all countries,
Switzerland.
Water-colorist Charles Tindall laid down
his palette the other day to give a blessing
to daughter Phyllis when she introduced him
to his future son-in-law. The young man
is Oswald Piper, eldest son of the George
Pipers, of Murwillumbah, and is in a bank.
At a wedding in London the other week
there were 10 bridesmaids. On a recent night
a Sydney girl went to the altar escorted by
five. It’s all very well, but what about the
poor man who has to buy the presents?
Still he gets out of the actual festivities very
cheaply. It wouldn’t really matter if he
didn’t even have a new suit. Nobody looks
at him, and if he does try to capture the
gaze with grey spats and lavender gloves
he is merely pitied as an eccentric, and the
bride’s parents whisper apologies for him
to family friends.
Joe Brennan puts a touch into “Jack and
the Beanstalk” that must cheer the home-
sick cocky. .Toe, who lives in the panto, as
Dame Trot, decides to swell her non-existent
income by opening a beauty parlor. She
prints a huge poster to this effect, and, not
to be stumped for advertising space, spears
it to the horns of Jessie, her cow.
Sister Brisbane’s P.S.:—
Some friends of the late Judge McOawley com-
missioned J. T. Muller to make a bronze bust of
the popular Chief Justice, to be placed in the
Industrial Arbitration Court. Muller worked from
photographs and from a death-mask taken on the
day the Judge died. The bust is now ready for
casting in bronze, and will be unveiled later in the
year.
Glory and Joyce Jennings had a lavender tea at
their home in honor of Maie Musgrave, who will
soon be married. African daisies decked the supper-
room, and mauve asters the tearoom.
The Anglican Church, Boonah, housed the marriage
of Royston Ball, elder son of the George Balls, to
Ruby Hooper, of the Booalba clan. Honiton lace and
ivory mariette frocked the bride, who whs given away
by her father, and she carried asters and tuberoses.
Maisie Hooper and Enid Ball ’maided. The future
nest will be in Townsville.
Went out rather suddenly, but at the age of 91,
Mrs. Warren White, who was born in Dublin and
came to Victoria in the early ’fifties. In 1860 she
married an Irishman, John Warren White, of County
Clare, and they came to Queensland in ’B2. He
died also at 91, some eight years ago. The surviving
children include Mrs. Echliii, wife of Captain R. B.
Echlin; Mrs. Hutchinson, widow of Colonel Kenneth
Hutchinson (originally of Canning Downs) ; Colonel
Dudley White, now in England; and Major-General
Brudenell White.
Georgina, wife of Major Jack Bisdee, who died
in the south of France on Christmas Day, was well
known in Queensland. A daughter of Bishop Hale,
she started the first tennis club in Brisbane, known
as the Casuals. After the Bishop’s resignation she
went with her parents to Bath, returning later to
Westralia. Her mother was a daughter of Colonel
Molloy, said to be the original of Charles Lever’s
“Handsome Jack.” Mrs. and Miss Hale settled in
Tasmania, where, after the S’African war, Miss Hale
married Jack Hutton Bisdee, V.C.
Alpin Charles Cameron waited for Grizel Gibson,
only daughter of the Lockhart Gibsons, on the 11th,
in St. Andrew’s kirk, and the Rev. Norman Millar
attended to their business. The bride was in oyster-
white mariette mounted on white satin and beaded
in sequins and diamente. Her plain tulle veil had
been worn by her mother. She carried a Columbine
posy of eucharist lilies and stephanotis and a
cluster of russet-pink roses, with narrow white
ribbons. The ’maids, Lilian Cannan, Margaret
Wilson and Bessie Ogg, were respectively in blue
mauve and pink shot taffetas, the bodices scalloped
on to a French shirred skirt, the hems vandyked
over silver lace. They wore forget-me-not bands on
their hair, and carried Victorian posies of pink, blue
and mauve flowers, veiled in tulle. Pale-pink and
blue decorated the Bellevue for the reception.


BRQTHER^ITp,^
Oak Canteen of Table Plate
i
8A8599.
Handsome Inlaid Mahogany Cabinet, fitted with Hardy Brothers’
A 1 quality “Chippendale” pattern Spoons and Forks. Containing
8 Table Forks
8 Dessert Forks
4 Table Spoons
8 Dessert Spoons
8 Tea Spoons
8 Soup Spoons
2 Sauce Ladles
Price, £lB.
Five per cent, discount allowed for Cash .
Hardy Brothers 9 New Catalogue will be sent post free on request .
HARDY
298-300
COLLINS ST.,
MELBOURNE.
BROTHERS LTD.
S& 7/ouse gP tjaxlusiue, Ueuxzll&y
13 HUNTER STREET, SYDNEY.
And at LONDON.
116-118
QUEEN ST.,
BRISBANE.
NOVELS THAT THRILL!
The Famous Bookstall Series of Novels hold the Reader. They are virile, they
tell of
ADVENTURE, LOVE, TRAGEDY AND HUMOR.
Every Writer of Bookstall Novels gives of his best. That is why they are
best sellers.
5,000,000 Copies Have Been Sold.
A POPULAR SELECTION FROM THE CATALOGUE.
Queen Vaiti Beatrice Grimshaw
The Coral Queen.. Beatrice Grimshaw
White Savage Simon
Beatrice Grimshaw
The Mystery of the Boxing Contest
Bert James
Double-Bed Dialogues
James Henry James
A Curate in Bohenv
Norman Lindsay
Dawson’s Uncle George
Sumner Locke
Mum Dawson, Boss. ..Sumner Locke
Übique Clarence W. Martin
Pagaloa’s Daughter . . Jack McLaren
Feathers of Heaven . . . Jack McLaren
Oil Seekers Jack McLaren
Red Mountain Jack McLaren
Savagery of Margaret Nestor
Jack McLaren
The Skipper of the “Roaring Meg”
Jack McLaren
Hack’s Brat A. lan McLeod
At Holland’s Tank . . Edward Meryon
Yellow Silver Edward Meryon
Harry Dale’s Grand National
Jack North
Son of the Bush Jack North
Black Opal Jack North
Bodger and the Boarders
E. O’Ferrall
The Mount Marunga Mystery
Harrison Owen
The Plantation Manager
Ernest Osborne
The Copra Trader . . Ernest Osborne
Shantykeeper’s Daughter
Vance Palmer
The Boss of Killara . . Vance Palmer
Mystery of Wall’s Hill
Sydney Partrige and Cecil Haworth
A Maker of Pearls .... S. Wi Powell
Great Jade Seal S. W. Powell
Hermit Island S. W. Powell
The Pearls of Cheong Tali
S. W. Powell
Trader of Kameko .... S. W. Powell
Dan Kelly—Outlaw . . Ambrose Pratt
Price 1/-, Posted 1/1 2.
COMPLETE CATALOGUE, COMPRISING 150 TITLES, POST FREE.
N.S.W. BOOKSTALL CO. LTD
PRICE
Posted
16/-
Please add exchange on inter-
state and Country Cheques.
HODGSON’S
Modern Carpentry
and
Joinery.
2 VOLS.
Elementary and Advanced.
A new and complete Guide containing
hundreds of quick methods for performing
work in Carpentry, Joinery and General
Woodwork, written in a simple, everyday
Style that does not bewilder the working-
man. Illustrated with hundreds of
diagrams which are especially made so
that anyone can follow them without diffi-
culty. These two volumes show the most
modern and practical methods known in the
Arts of CARPENTRY AND JOINERY.
N.S.W. Bookstall Co. Ltd.
Castlereagh & Market Streets,
Sydney.
sdf
COLUMBIA
GRAFONOLAS
FOR
EXCELLENCE
OF
REPRODUCTION
sdf
WITH COLUMBIA RECORDS.
Columbia
Grafonola
Models
Portable ----- £9 9
19A 14 10
25A 22 10
26A 25 0
27A 27 10
29A 45 0
0
0
0
0
0
0
SOLD ON
VERY EASY TERMS.
WRITE FOR
FULL PARTICULARS.
Catalogue and Lists
Free by Post.
Columbia
Records
9096 6/'
Praludium Jansfelt
Scottish Fantasia. Squires Celeste Octet
3972 */-
Nell Gwyn Dances.
Pastoral and Merrymakers.
Jacobs’ Ensemble
1751, 1752, 1753, 1754-
Death and the Maiden (Schubert).
In 8 parts. London String Quartette.
In Art Album with descriptive notes.
Price 34/-
338 George Street, Sydney; 206-210 Pitt Street (next Lyceum Theatre).


.17/,.
ss^L?N?ia,
sd
/6 tfld
only
NONSCRATCH
PHONOGRAPH
C7/te Gre<\t
Toti Dal Monte obt&inoibltf
°^, LY
Home Recreations | d
*3BB George St. Sudneu
(°PP Beo.rd WaJsorr’sj
fsd
In the Heart of Melbourne
Howwer far you go yon cannot fare better than at Scott’s.
h J?" tral Position, it is within a few minutes of busi-
ness establishments, theatres, railways and boats. It is replete
with every luxury and convenience that the most modern
hotel service can devise. All bedrooms fitted with direct
and intercommunicating telephone and hot and cold water.
'X
Inclusive Tariff by
Day or Bed and Break-
fast Rate.
Suites on Application.
Tariff Cards Posted on
Request.
Telegrams: ‘Scott’s,’ Melbourne
l 4
A
w/.
n
m
CYMA
KNOWN ALL OVER THE WORLD
AS THE BEST TIME KEEPER
SOLD BY ALI JEWELLERS
Melboune
Chatter
After Friday’s 107 degrees of scorching
wind the cool change on Saturday drew to
Caulfield with renewed vigor and sanguine
hopes (mostly crushed later on) what was
left of the populace after the exodus to hills
and sea. It was very pleasant under the
trees on the lawn and saddling-paddock; and
though there was but a mere fraction of
society present, with nothing remarkable in
the way of dressing, this v .A.T.C. meeting
had compensations. Somethinc new in para-
sols was black, with appliqued oranges and
lemons and their foliage—a gentle reminder
perhaps of the Cl aon slogan. Mrs. E. M.
Pearce’s gown of reseda-green topped by a
black hat touched with gold contributed a
cheerful note to the committee’s ladies’ box.
Mrs. Watt, a recent arrival from England
with a colonel husband, wore well-cut black
satin, with soft plume mounts upon black
millinery. Mrs. T. G. White, just back from
Europe, had ensemble attire of black satin
allied to blue-and-white floral georgette,
topped by an almost brimless navy felt hat.
Barrister George Flannery’s wife, over from
Sydney, wore upholstery of navy blue prinked
up with fawn; her sister, Mrs. Warwick
Armstrong, had a suit of lime-toned gabar-
dine, pink roses decking her mole straw hat,
Ann Willis figured in smart fawn and blue
sprigged silk and harmonising hat.
The G.-G. is to be accompanied by son lan
on his Tasmanian walking tour.
The Meteorological Bureau ran up the
Red Flag last week, when hot days were
followed by hotter nights and bush fires.
The latter being no respecter of persons,
select Frankston was among the first to
hoist signals of distress, and part of society
had to bundle its goods and chattels into
motor-cars and flit. Much volunteer help
caused the evictions to be only temporary.
A quaint sight during the hot spell was the
interested groups that collected all day
around the big thermometers where half-
hourly scores were posted. Municipal baths
had capacity patronage. Splashing at the
seaside was a continuous affair, and many
people slept on the beaches, or tried to.
A chronic state of limpness descended upon
the city, while Cuban and Louis heels left
their prints in rivulets of molten tar.
As usual, Melbourne’s streets became burb-
ling brooks of tar as soon as the weather
warmed up last week, and pedestrians forded
them at their own risk. One dainty damsel,
haying lifted one foot clean out of an im-
prisoned shoe, walked ashore on her stock-
inged foot, and then, carefully removing
the silk-arto ruin, put her bare foot back
into the shoe and went on her way; her last
action was to hurl the stocking at the street
with a blessing on civic authorities that
would not stand print.
A story was told some time ago of an
assistant in a Sydney jeweller’s supplying a
real string of pearls instead of the imita-
tion article that was being paid for, and
of the customer’s husband discovering the
mistake. In that case, the bauble being re-
turned, the lady received from the firm a
nice little present by way of thanks. A
similar episode happened in Melbourne the
other day. At a hills resort a girl took off
her inevitable neck adornment and carelessly
laid it down. A male guest advised her to
treat her jewels a bit more carefully, for
real pearls were valuable. “But they aren't
real,” replied the lass; “I paid 255. for the
string.” gtill the man persisted that they
were genuine, and later an expert confirmed
this opinion. Being honest, she as soon as
possible handed back her purchase, to be met
with “Oh, we have searched for those every-
where ! They are worth hundreds.” But
this girl received merely her 25 shillings’
worth, no more.
The Bush Nursing Association had remem-
brances last week from Lady Novar; and
her lord, whom we knew as G.-G. Munro
Ferguson, always practical, wrote his good
wishes on a cheque form. The State’s vice-
regal domicile was represented by communi-
cations from the willowy Lady Stradbroke.
who wrote accepting a life membership, and
irom Stanley. The Victorian associa-
tion, like that of N.S.W., was founded by
the late Lady Dudley, known in these parts
as the White Countess, in 1910. To date
the V.B.N.A. has 52 centres, about 60 nurses
looking after the sick and injured in the
back country—some of it the backmost
country. Within the past five years the
work has spread to the Malice, where the
Tongala War Memorial Cottage Hospital is
in charge of the local branch. Other hospi-
tals have been staffed in outlying districts;
shortly the central council expects to have
at least 12 of them. A grant from the
Wilson Trust will enable B.N.A. nurses to
take a special course in midwifery and baby
health. To Margaret Gillis is entrusted the
duties of superintendent of centres, and May
Mathieson is her assistant.
S’Rupert’s death brings back memories of
the time when the first baronet played the
lord of the manor in traditional English
style at Rupertswood, perhaps the most
beautiful house in the Commonwealth. The
great occasion each year was Rupert’s birth-
day, when not only Sunbury and Aitken’s
Gap and Digger’s Rest, but hundreds of
visitors from Melbourne, brought in special
trains, were feasted. The headmaster of the
Aitken’s Gap school used to propose the
health of the heir, and there was turkey,
ham, tongue and lashings of beer for all,
with toys and cakes for the youngsters.
Among the week’s linkings was that of
Nurse Evelyn Louise Chugg and Louis Vou-
mard, a promising young legal light, at
t rinity, Kew. The bride, who collected her
professional knowledge at the Children’s Hos-
pital, had lots of tulle as train and veil
clouding a frock of ivory georgette. Robed
m blue and silver, Rosie Macintosh played
the attendant ’maid.
Without even consulting the Board of
Control, cricket captain W. M. Woodfull
chose Gwenda Muriel King for his batting
partner. She is the younger daughter of the
John Kings of BeaConsfield-parade, St. Kilda,
and they signed a contract at the Albert
Park Methodist Church last week. The
bridegroom’s father, the Rev. T. S. B. Wood-
full, and the Rev. H. Styles Heath witnessed
the event, which had a large and admiring
gallery within and without the church. The
pretty, vivacious and slim maiden, who car-
ried many water-lilies, faced the crowd in
ivory georgette girdled with pearls; her train
of brocade had a shimmer of pink, and she
was haloed with Limerick lace. Two small
girls frocked in white guarded the depending
length of cobweb. Flo Burnside, wearing
pink georgette that melted into petals about
the skirt, was the attendant maid. Prahran’s
fast bowler, Percy Wallace, passed the ring
to the bridegroom; and the after-remarks
were made at Carlyon’s.
( On Sunday afternoon at St. Andrew’s,
Brighton, with water-lilies and roses trailing
oyer the font and backed by a choral ser-
vice, Canon Hancock baptised the infant
daughter of the Rupert de Burgh Kers —
mother is the English contralto Phyllis Lett,
and father is of Wyaldra, Julia Creek,
Bananaland. The infant is Patricia Phyllis
Elizabeth—which will be plain Pat pre-
sently. At the after-teaing the contralto,
whose fawn georgette and lace raiment had
touches of blue and pink, said her thanks
in song for the good wishes and gifts given
her small daughter. Owing to the break of
the drought, Rupert Ker is now able to
leave his little bit of Queensland for a
while, and will see his wife off on her
Maoriland tour, meeting her in Sydney on
Sunday. Patricia Phyllis Elizabeth remains
in Melbourne.
Every schoolgirl knows the books of Mary
Grant Bruce, for the Billabong series and
her other
stories are
legion among
the awards on
Prize Day.
This is the
lady herself,
pictured b y
Broot horn.
U n fortunately
Australia is
saying good-
bye to her, for
she is off to
make her
home in Ire-
-land, where
her husband,
Major Bruce,
has a pro-
perty. By the
way, he is a
distant cousin
of his wife,
and also has
leanings towards literature, a novel of his
having appeared firstly in serial form in a
leading daily. During the war he was of
the regulars, and had already seen service in
West Africa. He married his Gippsland girl
in Melbourne; they have two small sons,
Jonathan and Pat.
Trustees of the National Gallery last
week issued the first postcard reproductions
of their pictures, statuary, etc. But, this
being a business spec., why couldn’t the job
have been done properly? All are in black
and white. With one or two Melbourne
houses doing as fine color printing as any
in the world, surely it was up to those re-
sponsible to see that picture-lovers were
offered the nearest possible approach to the
originals. Corot’s “Bent Tree” in black and
white might be a bit of ti-tree scrub around
Brighton beach. Aussie painters who con-
tribute to this first issue are Longstaff,
Streeton and George Lambert, and Bertram
Mackennal’s “Circe” is also on the list.
When Helen Serjeant White, of the Coun-
tryman, came back from a visit to London
the other day she brought with her an Eng-
lish cousin for a year’s stay in Victoria. This
maiden, Marjorie Serjeant, has a dramatic
soprano voice which has been guided by
Charles Santley and Stirling McKinlay; she
is well known on concert platforms in London
as Eileen June. Her special line is Early-
Victorian songs in costume. No doubt we
shall hear her.
Author Leonard Merrick and his daughter
Dorothy are saying good-bye to friends made
during their long stay in Melbourne. They
leave by the Demosthenes on the 26th.
The Mayor’s fund that assists metropolitan
hospitals and charities will receive the gate
money of a carnival arranged by the A.N.A.
in celebration of Foundation Day—Monday,
the 81st. The Exhibition will be the rendez-
vous that evening, when military, police and
massed bands will supply star turns.
The earnest-looking man in this picture is
I’ercival Serle, whose fine and self-sacrificing
labors for Aus-
tralian verse-
writers en-
titles him to
be regarded as
the late Ber-
tram Stevens’s
successor. Per-
cival, who is
a n Elstern-
wi c k native
and a Scotch
College o 1 d
boy, toiled for
over 20 years
in a life-assur-
ance office, and
there received
a training
that he found
invaluable in
his later work
as a biblio-
grapher. He
spent a decade
then in the office of the Registrar of the
Melbourne Uni., and retired in 1920 to take
up literary research work. Since then he
has published a privately-printed edition of
Christopher Smart’s “A Song to David” and
his amazingly comprehensive and admirable
“Bibliography of Australasian Verse.” The
latter records invaluable data concerning over
2700 volumes by about 1420 authors, and is a
reference book that should be, but unfortu-
nately is not, on the shelves of every public
library. In addition, he has compiled a new
anthology of Australasian verse for Collins,
of London, and the volume is now in the
press. He is at present at work on a history
of Australian poetry. He confesses that he
is considerably out of pocket as a result of
his ventures, but gets consolation from think-
ing that his work is making some Australian
poets better known. And he doesn’t mind
confessing that he got the means to thus
employ himself by another sort of study.
A close reader of The Bulletin’s Wild Cat
columns, he profited by its advice to the
extent of winning for himself a modest inde-
pendence.
The Wattle League, which has an all-
Australian programme arranged at the
Lyceum Club for Foundation Day, is making
a double-event of the evening fixture —it
will have Knight Brunton and his ex-Mayor-
ess as guests-of-honor. Farewells will be said
to the popular pair, who are just off to
Europe.
The Ormuz next week carries away artist
Marion Jones, of Bendigo, who has had a
hectic time getting commissions completed.
On the ship will be another clever Bendi-
gonian, Alison Smalley, whose manipulation
of the fiddle gained her a gold medal at the
Associated Board exams, a year or so ago.
She goes to the Royal College of Music for
further study. Her parents are making the
journey with her.
After meeting the wife for some weeks at
the Athenaeum, patrons on Saturday night
renewed acquaintance with “The Best
People,” no longer purely ’Murcan. Beatrice
Day, the chief addition to the select circle,
adopts the hysterics of the worried Mrs.
Lenox whom we knew before, but not the
dame’s trailing negliges. With a coiffure
nigh golden, she airs the fairly abbreviated
apparel of the moment in white voile and
Irish crochet, beneath which is black satin ;
and for the end of the family revolt she
dresses in fawn georgette with much flowing
sleeve and crimson-and-gold embroidery.
Helen Audiffred, the spoilt Marion, makes
entrance first in apricot-pink georgette with
inlets of jacaranda-blue, and flappers were
smitten with her summery white frock that
was touched up with embroidery and gera-
nium-colored pipings. The dressing is quite
a feature of the revival —a long way ahead
of that of the first season. Chorus-girl Millie
(Marion Lord) officiates at the supper-party
in cheery red., and later figures in a very
smart sports suit of the jumper mode. Bertie’s
best girl, Alice, is the sweetest of lassies that
ever wore pale-blue taffeta aud cream lace
sprinkled with wee roses and tabs of silver
ribbon.
The annual getting-together of those minis-
tering angels who won their earliest profes-
sional knowledge at the Children’s Hospital
was held in the shady retreat of the kiosk
by the lake in the Botanic Gardens on an
afternoon of last week. About 40 members
of this league and covenant braved the heat
to win much pleasure from the reunion.
Matron Walsh, out-door hon. secretary
Annie Smith, and Marion McKenzie (ditto
in-doors) were of the present reign who
joined in the jollo.
News has been received that Mrs. Hugh
Buckler, contrary to the medical forecast,
is again standing on her feet after a long
and serious illness caused by blood poison-
ing. Hugh has a good part in “The Ladder,”
a play of Theosophical tendencies; and their
boy, following in father’s footsteps, is in
the cast of “The Green Hat,” Michael
Arlen’s book dramatised.
The cabled account of a raid on the fashion-
able Kit Cat Club in London recalls an occa-
sion when the police had planned a similar
kindly inspection, with its accompanying
fines and confiscation of fizz. All was ready
for the thrilling entrance, when Edward P.
spoilt the whole thing by deciding to visit
the select rendezvous himself that night. The
path of duty hastily led in another direction.
Miles Franklin, the Australian writer who
has been the life and soul of the National
Town-Planning Association in London, lias
been obliged by ill-health to relinquish her
post as secretary, and is taking three months’
complete rest.
English society was shocked in 1873 when
the Hon. Eliot Yorke, younger son of the
Earl of Hardwicke, married Annie de Roths-
child, daughter of Sir Anthony and cousin
of the future Lord Rothschild. It was the
first alliance between a peer’s son and a
Jewess who clung to her own faith, and it
stirred Jewish circles as well as patrician
ones. The bride’s father, who was president
of the United Synagogue, offered to resign,
but was assured that the disgrace was not
his. The incident is recalled by the death
of the lady in her 83rd year. She remained
a Jewess throughout her life; with her sister
Constance she wrote at least one text-book
for Jewish schools. The sister later became
Lady Battersea; since those days the but-
tressing of old titles with Jewish wealth has
become quite common.
From Adelaide-on-the-Grid: —
A bursting thermometer has given a quietus to
social activities. The only festivity attempted was
a soirSe at the Harold Davies home for ’Varsity
feminine swimmers (their daughter is Adelaide’s
champion), and that was wisely turned at the last
moment into a beach motor-run and a bathe. There
was polo, with the Colleys to dispense afternoon-tea
before the mercury got really angry; and telephones
of the younger set have been kept busy over the
engagement of Ellie, second of the McMahon Glynn
daughters. The man is Captain Macgillieuddy, of
Duntroon.
The Theosophists get £5OO from the estate of the
late Mrs. Knox, one of their keen supporters and a
daughter of the late Judge Gwynne. More of her
money goes to found a Knox home for distressed
gentlewomen.
The heat has taken heavy toll of older colonists.
Among them is that Mrs. H. E. Fuller whose hus-
band gave a mayoral ball for the Duke of Edin-
burgh, and who was specially presented to that
visiting Royalty’s great-nephew when he was here
in 1920. Dr. Robert Brummitt, one of Lady Gal-
way’s chief henchmen in the Red Cross, has died too.
The Governor is back from Kangaroo Island; his
vehicle an aeroplane, and in his luggage the break-
fast fish caught that very morning.
Invitations are out for the Bowden-Tolley wed-
ding on January 27. The Duguid-Robertson wed-
ding took place at Chalmers Church —the bride-
groom a brother of the Dr. Charles Duguid who
arrived here from Scotland in time to serve in
Palestine as M.O. with the Light Horse; the bride
is from the north of Ireland.
Keith Minehin’s proposed “snake park,” on a slice
of the North Adelaide parklands, is being hotly
fought over. Owners of property a stone’s throw
away have written forecasting the invasion of their
homes by serpents in ease of fire or even of negli-
gence in the enclosure, and the news that Minchin
has received and unloaded a consignment of the worst
horrors S. Africa can produce has done nothing to
allay the scare. Enthusiasts up-country, where snake-
bite is common, jump in on the other side, and say
it is a disgrace that Adelaide should have gone so
long without a snake clinic and serum-laboratory for
their benefit. Moderate supporters argue “Why not
use a bit of the Zoo itself?”
It is not often that in law-abiding Adelaide any-
body announces his intention to flout the law ; but
the dreadful thing has just been done by the motor-
’bus owners. Tne Corporation announced tliat it
would license them only on condition that they
agreed not to run in King William-street. Fortified
by counsel’s opinion they announced that they would
run in King William-street, licensed to do so or not;
and the City Council didn’t do a thing.


MINGS
//“
SPECIAL VALUE
DI AM ON D-CIRCLE-RINGS
FROM &15-15-0
DIAMONDS
diamonds
DIAMONDS
O H° S
AT/
Drummond’s Diamond and Gem Rings completely
fulfil the most exacting demands rightly attaching
to the purchase of the finest rings procurable.
Speaking from an experience of over half a
century, the firm invite you to expect of their rings
a Quality, a Superiority of Workmanship, and an
Individuality that can be found in no other rings.
Drummond’s rings are the supreme combination
of all of these characteristics, and a true reflection
of more than fifty years of specialised effort to
evolve the most beautiful rings that can be made.
WM-DRUMMOND & €
-THE HOUSE FOR FINE QUALITY DIAMONDS-
AND PEARLS
344-346 COLLINS ST. MELBOURNE
Reduce Your Correspondence
Time by Half!
Just a gentle tap here and there on its easy, glistening
keyboard, and the Underwood Portable sets down
the most difficult characters immediately. There is
no “going back” to cross “t’s or dot i s ; no
slurred characters; no brain-fag and physical effort
needed to guide the hand through involved move-
ments. All the attention can be concentrated on the
work in hand, resulting in a greater output of ideas,
recorded neatly, legibly and permanently in half
the time. You should have a copy of our illustrated
booklet “a-5.” It’s free on request.
UNDERWOOD
Portable Typewriter
fsd
Specifications.
Made in two Models —3-bank
and 4-bank keyboards. Two-
color ribbon, back-spacer, stencil
switch, shift keys and locks,
variable line spacer and margin
stops and release.
Stott & Underwood Ltd.
9-11 O’Connell Street, Sydney.
The Underwood Typewriter Agency,
91 William Street, Melbourne.
A. SAUNDERS’ EXCLUSIVE
GIFTS
A. Saunders’ Silver-plated Cake Basket, pierced design.
25/-
A. Saunders’
Crystal Cut Glass
Honey Jar,
■ •
i
■
-
si®
. .
A Saunders’ Coffee Set and Tray, pure Silver-plated A 1 Quality, hana-
burnished, £7/10/-. Others, £lO, £l2/10/-, £l5.
A. Saunders’ Milk .lug, Hand-
glazed China, Nickel Swing-
ing kid, in three sizes,
15/6, 20/-, 25/-
WE PAY POSTAGE.
••SftßiSiSiSfiSiSSffi
rww
m
m
'iomM
TOM
A. Saunders’ Beat English Cut Glass
Rose Bowl, in two sizes, 30/-, 407-
WRITE FOR CATALOGUE.
A. SAUNDERS
W atelimaker —J eweller —Optician,
805-813 GEORGE STREET (opposite Railway Station), SYDNEY.
TO EUROPE IN 1927!
MAKE YOUR TRAVEL ARRANGEMENTS WITH
THOS. COOK & SON
Railway, Steamship and Tourist Agents,
ESTABLISHED 1841 - - 165 BRANCHES.
PASSAGES Booked by All Lines at Tariff Rates.
Monthly Sailing List . Issued Post Free.
TRAVELLERS 5 ’ Issued in Sterling and Dollars, in Notes
CHEQUES of £5, £lO, £2O and $lO, $2O, $5O, $lOO.
INCLUSIVE Tours arranged, including Hotel, Sightsee-
INDEPENDENT ing and Excursions. Any Route. Class of
TRAVEL Hotel and Travel optional. Itineraries
Prepared.
Pleasure Cruises to the Norwegian Fjords.
Motor-coach Tours in Great Britain.
ESCORTED TOURS IN EUROPE,
Visiting
ITALY - - SWITZERLAND - - FRANCE - - BATTLEFIELDS
BELGIUM - - HOLLAND - - and GREAT BRITAIN.
Fares include
Travel, Hotel, Meals while Travelling, Transfers between Stations
and Hotels, Sightseeing, Excursions, Gratuities, Fees, Guides and
Experienced Conductor.
Automobile Tour de Luxe from NAPLES .... 49 days, £396
Select First-class Tours from MARSEILLES .... 71 days, £302
Select First-class Tours from NAPLES 66 days, £283
Popular Escorted Tours from MARSEILLES ... 53 days, £179
Popular Escorted Tours from NAPLES 48. days, £166
Moderate Escorted Tours from LONDON 46 days, £149
DETAILED PROGRAMMES ON APPLICATION.
Monthly “TRAVELLER’S GAZETTE” Post Free.
THOS. COOK & SON
MELBOURNE:
269 Collins Street.
SYDNEY:
Martin Place,
(Opp. G.P.O.)*
ADELAIDE:
49a Grenfell Street.
AUCKLAND:
N.Z. Insurance Building,
Queen Street.
WELLINGTON:
Government Life Building
(Next G.P.0.).


A
Kingly Drink
with a
Kingly Title.
TOP
NOTCH
RING
GEORGE IV
Scotch WhisKy
THE
D
ISTIEEERS
JTN
GENCY TIMITED,
(of Edinburgh)
Branches s Melbourne, Sydney, Adelaide, Perils,
Brisbane, Townsville, Cairns*
OF
SCOTCH
Bottled in Bond under the supervision of the Customs.


y A\'
M
t
The TOP-NOTCH "Scotch
'StyWHEfi
\
For They are Jolly Good Fellows.
RESCH’S
LAGER, DINNER ALE,
PILSENER & STOUT.
RESCH’S
BITTER ALE,
AUSTRALIA’S BEST BITTER.
And so say all of us. .
Western Australian Distributors:
BURNS, PHILP & CO., LTD., PERTH AND GERALDTON.
[l
SPORTING
NOTIONS
Toolioy, tlm Sydney jockey, has been riding
i lot of winners this season, and the money came
in huge parcels for five of his six mounts at Rosehill
an Saturday. It wasn’t the young gentleman’s day
out ; a second on Valora (6 to 4) in a division of
the Maiden Two-year-old Handicap—Valora, a daugh-
ter of Valais—Orvietta, for whom E. J. Watt gave
3000 guineas, was downed by the Wedge gelding
Wedara, a 9-to-2 shot —was the nearest he got. He
is a very good horseman when things are going
his way, but is apt to ride a bad race occasionally,
as they all are. Backers had to wait till the eighth
and last race for the victory of an absolute favorite ;
then Spring Days (7 to 4), a four-year-old daughter
of October—Pleasant Days, just beat the useful
Don Moon, whose apprentice jockey was outridden
by the accomplished Munro. Bagpipes (6 to 1) led
all the way in the January Handicap, 10 furlongs,
Attractive (10 to 1) and Sea Risk (9 to 2) being
nearest to him when the judge had to place them ;
and the people who own the English gelding (he
is by Polyphonic—Corry Inville) must now be sorry
they didn't nominate him for the A.J.O. Anniversary
Handicap. Bairn (7 to 4) and Father’s Voice (anv
price) set such a pace in the Flying Handicap that
the six furlongs were left behind in 1 min. 12 (see.
Bairn settled the ex-Maorilander at five furlongs, but
the weight settled her; Lovebox (7 to 1) and
Calmest (7 to 1) beat her into third place, Lovebox,
who had the services of Goddard, a smart youngster,
prevailing by a head.
For the A.J.O. Challenge Stakes at Randwick next
Saturday, Bairn comes down 21b. to 9st. 10lb., Calm-
est lib. to Bst. 121 b., Periwoo 71b. to Bst. lib., Love-
box 41b. to 7st. 51b. and Lausanne 61b. to Bst. 51b.
On Rosehill running, Lovebox ought to be the best
of that lot, but Janitor (7st. 91b.) and Chrystal
(7st. 51b.), who did not run at Rosehill, look dan-
gerous on paper. Perhaps the three will fight out
the finish, and maybe Chrvstal’s number will go on
top. And Sea Risk, albeit he is getting up in
years, m«v rapeat his last year’s success in the
January Handicap.
* * * *
The Caulfield track suits Comus and
Godby’s importation broke up another f.a.q. field in
the Anniversary Handicap, 11 furlongs, at the
V.A.T.C. January meeting on Saturday. From 4 to 1
he firmed to 5 to 2, Eridanus being next in order at
7 to 2 ; Tookarbv was 5 to 1, Longworthy 7 to 1,
and the others (there were 10 starters) from 10 to
33 to 1. The favorite dashed to the front as soon as
the machine lifted, and had a lead of 15 lengths
when they had gone three furlongs. Paced by Corn-
crake (33 to 1), the others made up some ground,
but little Godby kept at Comus all the time and
landed him a winner bv 34 lengths from Tookarby,
with Corncrake half a length further back. Comus
carried 9st. 3lb. and covered the distance in 2min.
20sec. —an exceptionally good gallop. There was a
boil-over in the Holiday Stakes for two-year-olds, for
which Querida was a 9-to-4 favorite; a 25-to-l shot
in Nereus (Sea Prince—Brakette) won in good style
from another outsider in Woornack (33 to 1), with
Marsias (9 to 2) third. Tullius (7 to 2), now racing
in Jack Holt’s colors, beat Poetaster (14 to 1),
Perspective (3 to 1) and other decent sprinters in
the Tooronga Handicap, and enabled some of jockey
Duncan’s followers to get square; but three of the
six races were very much in favor of the person
behind the bag.
* # * *
It has yet to be proved that Au Fait is
in the same class as Lilvveil, Lilypond, lan Or, New
Tipperary and Mistico. not to mention Eurythmic, but
the Ayrville—My Country gelding is obviously much
the best horse racing in Westralia at the present time.
With 6st. lllb. he won the Perth Cup on the bit in
3min. 26fsee., nearly a second better than Lilypond’s
time; and with 2st. more he carried off the Mid-
summer Handicap at the last W.A.T.C. meeting just
as easily, in 2min. 6 4-ssec. for the 10 furlongs. Au
Fait is owned by the Gaby on Pastoral Co., and was
used as a hack on its station in the Yalgoo district
before being introduced to the racecourse by one
Gosden, from N.S.W., who leased him from the co.
Gosden will probably bring the interesting ex-hack,
who is still only a four-year-old, to the effete East,
for there is nothing much left for him in the West.
* # * *
“Bouragi”: The Papuan Turf Club (B.
16/12/’26) duly brought off its first meeting.
“Though the track was very uncertain” there was
only one accident, which ended in nothing worse
than a broken collar-bone for the jock. The
“majority” of the races were won by two nags, Fire-
fly and Romany Love; these, with their owner, T. L.
Sefton, of Kokiri, will now assume in Papuan racing
lore the deathless fame which clings to Archer and
Ettie de Mestre, joint acquirers of the first Melbourne
Cup. That the new game will be popular with the
indigenes is certain. They have shown themselves
inordinate gamblers, and the Kiwai people, who are
loud-mouthed, assertive, acquisitive and have noses
like bent Bologna sausages, will naturally compile
the Papuan libretti.
* * * »
“S.T.S.”: Edward Woodward, an English-
man who evidently aspires to fill the shoes of the
late Nat Gould, has two quaint blunders in his latest
book, “Black Sheep.” He describes, at Aintree, on
Grand National day, a crowd including “the man
from Down Under, with thoughts of the Sydney
Flemington course in his mind, examining the jumps
and comparing them with the four-feet-six red-gum
back-breaker’s to which he is accustomed.” And the
heroine’s brother loses money at poker, “searching
for fives and straight flushes; they proved to be
deep-buried treasures.”
The inimitable Grime, who despises the
tallies of the scales, scorns inches in human altitude,
and doesn’t care a dump whether the aspirant
to one of his three titles is white, black, brown or
yellow, was seen at the Sydney Stadium on Saturday
night opposed to a muscular American Hebrew
THE RIGHT GAME FOR THE RAGE.
ABY : “Tennis —vat you get out of tennis, eh?”
IKEY : “Inderest, Aby, inderest.”
named Johnny Reisler. Weighing in at Bst. 1341 b.
(the Jew was 9jib. heavier), Grime looked hollow-
eyed and appeared to feel the heat. All the same,
he won every round of the 20 fought. He fooled
Reisler to the top of his bent, and hit him whenever
and wherever he pleased. Johnny’s stance and
awkward arm-work suggest that he never had a
lesson in his life. His principal asset is a swift
left swing at the stomach, but when the swing got
home on Grime, which was seldom, it generally landed
on the side with the open glove. Reisler might
chance to hurt a wide-open slow slogger, like himself,
but he is more likely, to get hurt first. The affair
had a ludicrous low-comedy prologue. As the prin-
cipals seated themselves, a queer figure climbed
through the ropes—a sartorial vision in orange
shirt, scarlet neckerchief, breeches, top-boots, Mexi-
can spurs and an enormous hat of ivory felt accu-
rately punched in three holes. It was Reisler’s
stable-companion, “Cowboy” Moore, who is to box
Billy Edwards if he can be extricated from his cow-
boy'rig.
* * * *
“Frisco” McGale and Billy Samuels pro-
vided the headliner in a mixed programme at Melbourne
Stadium on Saturday night. “Frisco” was the
heavier by 71b. and much the more nimble; it was
early apparent that the abo. had a poor chance of
getting home properly with his pulverising right.
The coon hit him with everything but the bucket.
Billy was down for several counts in the fifth, and
took three sudden trips to the canvas in the sixth.
He was trying to struggle up in the eighth when Val
Quirk pointed to the negro, much to that humane
warrior’s relief.
* * * *
“Jim Domino”: Mrs. Tyncke (B.
13/l/’27) is far from being the only woman glove-
pusher in Australia. Out at Charleville (Q.) there
used to be (and may be still) a family of three girls
and a boy who lived in a tent home on Warrego’s
banks. Good musicians all, and no mean performers
on the trapeze, two of the girls were particularly
good boxers. One of them distinguished herself by
knocking out a noisy person who was pestering her
with his attentions. I never saw a prettier right
hook.
* -X- * *
Andrew Charlton put up a great perform-
ance in his second meeting with Takaishi at Sydney
Domain baths. The Australian won the quarter
mile championship of N. S. Wales by 10yds. in 4 min.
59 4-ssec.-, beating his own Australian record by
12sec. Arne Borg holds the world’s record of 4min.
52fsec., but the Swede’s time was made in a 25yd.
tub, with all the advantage of numerous kicks-off at
the turns. Takaishi’s time was smin. 9sec.—2 4-ssec.
faster than Charlton’s previous record, established
in 1924. The Japanese turned tire tables on Charl-
ton in the 220yds. championship of N.S.W. at Manly
baths; he won by Byds. in 2min. 17see., beating
Charlton’s Australian record by 6 4-ssec., and get-
ting within 1 2-ssec. of Weissmuller’s world’s record,
also made in tidal water at Honolulu. As Charlton
lowered his own record by a second, he was obviously
at his best, but he is no match for Takaishi at
220, just as Takaishi is no match for him at 440
or 880. “Takky” has done 2min. 16 4-ssee. in
Japan, and may do even better before he leaves
Australia. Saito, the Japanese backstroke expert,
carried off the 100yds. championship in that style,
defeating M. Campbell and Dr. Kirkland, holder of
the title, in lmin. 13sec., l-ssec. slower than Kirk-
land’s best time. The crowd gave both Japanese a
great reception in recognition of their fine swimming
and sportsmanship ; nor was Charlton forgotten.
* Jfr * *
South Aus. completed its Sheffield Shield
programme for the season by inflicting a severe
defeat on N. S. Wales at Sydney. Thanks largely
to a patient 146 (out of 399) from little Schnei-
der’s bat, the visitors set the Ma Staters 547 to
make in the home team’s second innings and dis-
missed them for 206, only Kippax (52) and the
youthful Jackson, who contributed a brilliant 104
n o in 117 minutes, doing anything notable. Lee
got 5 wickets for 36 ; he and McKay have certainly
earned their places in the side. Having lost two
of its five matches, South Oss’s only hope of captur-
ing the shield lies in the weakened Vic. XI getting
licked at Sydney and Brisbane. The Crow-
eaters’ batting averages for the season are:
A. J. Richardson, 67.44 ; Vic. Richardson, 63 ;
Rymill, 55; Schneider, 54.22; Alexander, 36.33;
McKay, 33 ; Grimmett, 29.14 and Pritchard, 27.
In bowling, the best averages are: McKay, 16 ; Lee,
20; Williams (29 wickets), 32.27 ; Grimmett (30
wickets), 34.33; Schneider, 34.5; Alexander, 46;
A v J. Richardson, 47.5 ; Halc-ombe, 51.25 and Scott,
62.66.
“Corbie”; South Aus., in agreeing to Queensland’s
admission to the Sheffield Shield competition, stipu-
lated that it should play only one match against
the Banana State every year. By doing so it has
lessened its own chances of ever winning the com-
petition. The Central State has beaten Vic.,
N.S.W. and Queensland this season, and lost to Vic.
and N. S. Wales. Vic. has beaten the other three
States and lost to S. Aus. If it goes under- to
N.S.W. in the return match its record will be no
better than S.A.’s. Nevertheless, if it overcomes
Queensland it will regain the shield, for rule 4 says
“The side winning the largest percentage of matches
shall be holders” of that trophy. Again, how can
a State playing only five matches take advantage of
rule 5: “In the event of a tie the position shall be
determined bv the best batting and bowling averages
(mean, 20)”? Of course, if Vic. is represented by a
second eleven in the remaining matches it may lose
both, in which case the shield will go to Adelaide
for the first time since 1914. But, barring flukes of
that description, S.A.’s refusal to play home-and-
home matches with Queensland will mean that it
won’t capture the shield unless it wins four games
out of five, whereas four out of six may do the
business for any of the other States.
In the face of all the press hysteria about
the shabbv treatment of the Australian XI by the
Board of "Control, Ernie Bean, Victoria’s downright
representative on the Board, has given a few facts
that are worth considering. The team received
£4OO per man, with a £250 bonus, for 37 weeks,
or just on £lB per week apiece. Hotel accommoda-
tion, travelling, tips and washing were paid by
the Board. The latter also insured the players
against accident,, and provided a masseur and medi-
cal attention free. Three weeks’ holiday with all
these privileges was also allowed after the tom-
finished. There seems little to complain about in
all that, even where the most importunate amateur
is concerned. The unsavory wrangle has made one
thing certain—there will be positively no bonuses
in the financial arrangements with future touring
teams.
* * * *
“J.H.” (Loud.) : Bobby Abel, now nearly
blind, told me the other day that, although living
next door to the Oval, he did not attend a single
day of the last Test match. “My eyesight doesn’t
travel more than a few inches nowadays,” said
Bobby pathetically. Abel considers Trumper the
finest batsman of all time. “The quickest starter
1 ever saw,” he said, “he treated every ball on
its merits, even if it was bowled in a Test match.
Macartney is the only batsman I know who does
that nowadays.”
*'* * *
The M.C.C. XI led by Gilligan has closed
a successful tour of Hindustan with a match
against All India. Sandham headed the batting
averages with 73 and an aggregate of 1442. Tate
took 73 wickets for 13 each, and Geary, who so
impressed the Australians in England on the tour
lately ended, averaged 14 runs for 64 wickets.
These figures, and, the fact that all the team save
one averaged over 20 with the bat, suggest that
Indian form is not quite as high as it was cracked
up to be.
* # * *
“Lansdowne” : The most simple and obvi-
ous of all ways to stop long-drawn-out cricket
matches and curb mammoth scoring would be the
addition of a couple of stumps and bails to the
present outfit. The experiment was actually tried
at Lords as long as 90 years ago. Altham tells
about it in his “History of Cricket.” The Gents
of that remote period had been utterly outclassed
by the Players for’ several years, although they were
allowed numerical odds up to 15 or 16 men. So
another method of handicapping was devised, and
the famous “bai;n-door” match of 1837 was the
result. The Gents defended stumps of the ordinary
size, while their opponents were required to keep
intact “wickets 36 inches in height and 12 inches
in width.” Even so they won by an innings, which
suggests that the amateurs of that year must have
been a truly deplorable bunch. But think what
a chance a timber-yard of five wickets and four
bails would give the bowler to come into his own
again; surely it would make even a three-day match
a rarity. With a target like that, there would hr
no need for wearisome off-theory and leg traps. Best
of all, we could scrap all the old records, which are
becoming a burden and an infliction enough to
smother any game, and start with a clean sheet
under the new conditions. But of course gates would
suffer, and I suppose that rules it out.
*-* * *
“Guyver” : Something quite new in mis-
sionary effort was seen when a Sydney mission
invited some of the leading brethren of sport to
stand up and testify to the good it does to the
sons of men. Brother M. A. Noble led off with an
exposition of the virtues inculcated by cricket, and
’keeper IV. A. Oldfield spoke of the gifts that fol-
lowed in its train, though he said nothing of
bonuses. .T. O. Andersbn’s sermon on lawn tennis
was not followed- by a collection, which suggests
that he has not yet abandoned his amateur status.
“Pup” Raymond ; eulogised that beautiful spirit of
self-control which underlies the seeming ferocity
of Rugby. Tommy Howard spoke prayerfully of
golf, though not in conventional terms, while Harold
Hardwick showed that swimming taught one to be
as abhorrent of sharks by land as by sea. None of
the crowd from the Stadium, the ponies or the two-
up joints gave corroborative evidence, but I expect
we’ll get that next time.
* * * *
The star event of the British Rugby Union
season, the meeting of England and Wales, tooic
place at Twickenham on Saturday, England winning
a great battle by 11 to 9. On the same day the
Maoriland League players went down in the third Test
with the Northern Union, the Englishmen scoring
32 to 17. Played at Headingley in Yorkshire, this
match —the Maorilanders’ last—drew 8000 specta-
tors, and the deficit on the tour was reduced to
£7OO. The Northern Union Council, which con-
sists of canny Yorkshiremen and Lancashire lads,
anticipated a profit of £2OOO, so its agony may
bo imagined.
“S.T.S.” : Some sidelights are thrown on
the infancy of the Australian code of football in
the new history of Scots’ College, The
first intercollegiate match was in August, 1857, be-
tween “the juvenile presbytery and episcopacy,” as
the newspapers put it, in other words between
Scotch and Melbourne Grammar. The teams were
40 a side, and roasters were included. _ After three
hours a goal was scored. When “evening’s anxious
shades cut short the amusement,” the score was
one all. The match was “resumed” on two more
days, without any, scoring at all. As late as 1877
there was a match without any score. In 1881
Wesley kicked 1 goal and 1 behind—and won, Seotcn
having 33 behinds. that counted nothing. Only six
years later, in the same fixture, Scotch made its
biggest score, 25 goals, a record that still stands.
Ono of the chief troubles confronting
Olympic teams in the past has been the acquirement
of adequate housing. This problem has been
characteristically tackled by the Yanks, who will send
their reps, to the 1928 Olympiad at Amsterdam in
a special ocean liner. The vessel will also carry
“several millionaires,” who will “help to defray ex-
penses,” and will tie up in dock at Amsterdam
as a floating hotel and gymnasium during the Olym-
piad. Britain is talking of following suit, though the
British ship will be in commission only during the
Olympiad, the athletes doing all but the final
stages of training in England, across the way. Not
only will the teams get decent accommodation and
training facilities in this way, but the food to which
they are accustomed, an important matter to men
in training and one not easily come at in strange
countries. It is suggested that the Dominions
charter a ship for themselves, starting from Aus-
tralia and picking up South Africans and Canadians
en route. It seems almost a pity that they sunk
the Australia and' burned the Inca, now.
THE BURNING QUESTION.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Say, what is cricket’s chiefcst charm?
The drive that finds the pickets?
The ball propelled by wily arm
That spinning sends the wickets?
The thund’rous roar of glad acclaim
From crowds that fain would throne us?
They’re glories, granted, of the game
That lure and thrill, but all the same
They can’t obscure the bonus.
Of course we love it for itself,
The finest sport invented;
To hint our main objective’s pelf
Would hotly be resented.
Withal the burden of the day
We’ve borne, and with the onus
The eommodum should come our way,
The hire for many a hard-fought fray,
And, top o’ that, the bonus.
Greek athletes of the olden days
Were garlanded, and sparsely.
For victory with sprigs of bays
And wreaths of humble parsley.
They deemed- —pool' cows !- —reward enow
For feats that out had blown us,
A bit o’ greenstuff on the brow !
We, more enlightened, raise a row
At fifty off the bonus.
Brothers in suffering—and sport—•
This sweating biz enrages,
Let’s unionise and move the Court
For less penurious wages.
We brought the boodle homo, a stack;
A more six-fifty’s thrown us.
Was it because (alas! alack!)
We failed to bring the Ashes back
They’ve bilked us with the bonus?
N.S.W.
T. THE R.


1 9 Days
io United
States
T
r -
SO Days
to
London
Call at Fiji, Samoa and the Hawaiian Islands;
a steady, comfortable trip in latitudes that are
remarkably calm throughout the year.
Broad decks for sports and dances. An outdoor
swimming pool, choice foods in appetising variety.
Attractive social hall, novel entertainments, and
an enlivening orchestra. Regular programmes by
the ship’s cinema. Spacious state-rooms are well
ventilated by forced draft systems; cabins de luxe
have private baths.
S.S. SIERRA
S.S. SONOMA
S.S. VENTURA
Every three weeks.
FREE Sailing Lists.
Descriptive
Booklets.
1
ic Steamship C?
MATSON NAVIGATION TO - MANAGING AGENTS
12 Bridge Street, Sydney
1 ccal Agents: Mcllv.raith McEcchain Ltd., S'4-i>6 William St., Melboi rne, 117-119 King
William St., Adelaide, Inmat,tic, lath end Albany., Hcuaid Smith Limited, Bxtsbane.
=E
Antiseptic
Hospital Lavatory
Made up with one, two, three and four Tip-up Basins of
Nickel-plated Copper, in best Porcelain Enamelled White
Fireclay or Nickel-plated Copper Receptacles. The Basins and
Trunnions are removable for sterilising. 1 hese are supplied
either with Treadle Valves for fixing on walls as shown, or
with Floor-type Pedal Valve.
Hospital
Steel Furniture
Our Manufacture of Modern Hospital Steel Furniture includes
OPERATING TABLES, EXAMINATION CHAIRS,
INSTRUMENT TABLES, DRESSING CARRIAGES,
THEATRE TROLLEYS, OBSERVATION STANDS,
etc., etc.
High and Low Pressure, Hot and Cold Water Sterilisers for
Dressings, Instruments, etc., and all Hospital Equipment.
JOHN DANKS &SON PTY.LTD.
Pi
391-4oT BOURKE ST. MELBOURNE
AND AT SYDNEY.
THE INKY WAY.
“Carisbrook, Jun.” : Brisbane’s four dailies
continue to hurl challenges at one another
over the matter of circulation. At a recent
Mayoral luncheon the toast of the Press was
proposed. The reporters showed their usual
reluctance to get on their feet. Then Mayor
Jolly jocularly called for the representative
of the paper with the biggest circulation
to open the ball. The representatives of four
papers sprang to their toes simultaneously.
A newspaper centenary fell upon the first
day of this year; on January 1, 1827, the
Sydney Gazette (established 1803 as a
weekly) was converted from the bi-weekly it
had become in 1825 into a daily. The change
was a blow to its rival, W. C. Wentworth’s
Australian ; but both papers were threat-
ened with a worse shock when, about the
same time. Governor Darling tried to force
through Council a bill taxing the papers at
Id. per copy. Chief-Justice Forbes ruled
that out.
M. C. Hocking, a well-known and valued
Adelaide sporting writer, whose pen-name of
"Tatiara” had been familiar to Advertiser
readers for close on 40 years, has filled his
last engagement. The Hocking family has
been closely associated with journalism;
three of the brothers heard the West calling
in the roaring days of Coolgardie, and helped
to give the Old Camp one of the dailies that
had a short and merry life there. Then they
moved on to Kalgoorlie at precisely the right
time, and founded the Miner, of which
Sydney Hocking, an ex-mayor of the gold-
fields metropolis, is still managing director.
M. C. Hocking was OS at his death.
“Hamer”: One after-election morning
Henry Lawson met Steve O'Brien coming
from watching an all-night count of votes—
lie was secretary for Labor-man J. E. West s
campaign committee when West was making
his first unsuccessful assault on the East
Sydney seat. Lawson was curious about
tiie colors in O’Brien’s buttonhole. “Don’t
yon know, Harry V” said Steve. “Those are
the beaten colors!” Two hours later Lawson
was drawing the money for his “Who’ll
Wear the Beaten Colors Now?” O'Brien, a
Laborite in the days when a tremendous
amount of work for the cause was done from
pure, unpaid enthusiasm, is in serious ill-
health these days.
“Lao-dah”: Maoriland’s Inky Way is
buzzing. The new Sun rises at Auckland in
February, and Percy Crisp, who has driven
the parent organ’s chariot in Christchurch,
will go to edit the new one, with R. Riley of
the same paper as associate. The old Sun’s
new editor will be J. H. Hall, from the
II awe r a Star; and his associate will be
J. H. E. Schroder, who, while teaching
English to Christchurch High School boys,
proved himself one of the Trembly Isles’ most
brilliant scribes. Meanwhile, in Wellington,
the Times will close up shortly and its
remnants be absorbed by the Dominion. The
Dominion rose to power with Premier
Massey, while the older-established paper
sank rapidly from lack of a policy and direc-
torial parsimony. I once wrote an article at
the request of the Times, and, to avoid pay-
ment presumably, they printed it as an inter-
view with the distinguished Mr. Lao-dah,
“by our representative.”
“Hartley”: In the middle ’eighties John
Farrell, poet and journalist, ran the Land
Nationaliser in Litligow (N.S.W.), while
J. P. T. Caulfield, “the boy politician.”
looked after the Mercury, which had been
founded by W. S. Targett, one-time member
for the district. Farrell was a Georgite
Freetrader and Single Taxer, while Caulfield
was, up to the time of his “conversion” by
Henry George in 1800, a voluble Protection-
ist. In ’S7 the papers were merged under
the editorial control of Farrell, while Caul-
field, who aspired to the Hartley seat, car-
ried on his activities from platform and bal-
cony. In one of these outbursts the Boy
Politician virulently attacked Farrell and his
associates. Farrell summarised the proceed-
ings in a short par., describing Caulfield’s
deliverance as “indecent exposure of the
mind.” A writ claiming £5OO damages for
defamation followed. Ultimately the little
difference was adjusted without court pro-
ceedings, so it was never settled whether a
charge of “indecent exposure of the mind”
does really constitute libel.
PLACE AUX DAMES.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“Women in public offices interfere with efficiency
and cause delay, introducing by their , presence obli-
gatory deference.”— Mussolini.
My dear, you spoil efficient toil
In quite a multitude of ways
Where whir and whiz the wheels of biz—
At least so Mussolini says.
No plethoric boss, at blunders cross,
Can growl “You’re fired” or rasp “Get hence”
To you, niv dear, whose claim is clear
To “obligatory deference.”
In Treasury jobs the thrills and throbs
You cause, the charms that you display,
Leave, I infer, the manager
More grey—or bald —from day to day.
Whate’er mistake your fingers make
In casting up the pounds and pence,
He may not rave, or rate you save
With “obligatory deference.”
They hardly thought how well they wrought,
Those voters chivalrous who sent
Miss Preston S. to voice and stress
Their sentiments in Parliament.
The bolde.-t dare not question there
Her logic or assail her sense ;
Her lightest word by men is heard
With “obligatory deference.”
Aye, favored treatment’s yours, my sweet,
As Mussolini finds in Rome!
What though one feels you sprag the wheels,
We needs must pet you, nearer home.
This pencil stub wherewith I “sub”
The screeds of males, hangs still and tense
Above the prose that you compose.
I shrink to mar your verse that glows;
And so I pass them both, God knows,
With “obligatory deference.”
N.S.W.
MIDFORD.


Commencing January 20.
7 ' N x \\\\ \ \ I !/////
n
£
i;
V
&
m
m
/
rsv
V
J)
i
<*
/
/X
33
[}CH 5
13
MU«°
ST I L-L-
-risino
IP
u
ef
s
r
on
is-a
miAiL ai MM M«il>W» m
i
\
/I I \
ir«sjli
Huge Additions to the Mammoth Store ! Builders demand
working space. Great Stocks Clearing Regardless of Cost!
- * i
m
t I’"ra
. \
• •
,
■
• . J
®SS
1
f#
&
■ m
m
&
v
mm.
xm
m
m :
:
m
%
...
POSTAGE
PAID
TO YOUR
DOOR.
Customers who have Murdoch’s Summer Catalogue have the option
of ordering any line listed therein during the Sale period (with the
exception of Tobacco, Cigars, Cigarettes and a few proprietary lines)
and will be allowed the usual Sale Reduction of 10 per cent., or
2/- discount in the f.
BECAUSE every moment counts ! because huge stocks must be cleared
in quick time, prices have been cut irrespective of cost or profit. All
high-grade Merchandise for which Murdoch’s are famed now offered
at amazing savings. Truly, bargains were never so great.
Everything throughout the Great Store (except a 1A 0/
few proprietary lines) reduced at least J-VJ / 0
Stacks of Goods Uolf
Clearing as low as 1 ICC
A Genuine 7- Guinea
Worsted or Serge Suit to
tn
£5-12-6
HIGH - GRADE Pure Wool Worsted Suitings, unsurpassed for smart-
ness and real wearing ability. Included are popular Greys and Powder
Blues, Fancy •basket and Criss-cross weaves, etc.; also Pure Indigo Fine
Twill or Herringbone Serges r — guaranteed. Sac Suit of the highest
order, faultlessly tailored to your measures and accompanied with binding guarantee.
Usually £7171- RED SPOT PRICE £5/12/6
Other Red Spot Tailoring Bargains at
13/1516, £4/8/11, £5/2/5, and £7/10/-
IVRITE FOR FREE PATTERNS.
Send this coupon NOW and save pounds on your Suit. Actual examination of
the materials supplies best proof of their value. No cost or obligation whatever.
DESK k,
Murdoch's in Park-street, Ltd., Sydney.
Dear Sirs, —
Please send me, free of all cost, a complete range of your latest Suiting
Patterns, including the £5/12/6 Special Value, also free simple measure
outfit.
Name
Address
Jan. 20, ’27.
Hundreds of other Bargains!
Red Spot
Usually. Price.
30/- Men’s English Fur Felt Hats 22/6
6/6 Men’s English Zephyr Golf Shirts 4/8
17/6 Men’s Fawn Gabardine Working Trousers 11/9
65/- Youth’s Tweed 3-Piece Sac Suits 54/-
30/- Boys’ All-Wool Cotswold Suits 23/8
6/11 Boys’ Strong Flannelette Pyjamas 4/11
47/6 Celebrated “Lissen” Radio Loud Speaker 42/-
45/- Spalding’s “Victory” Tennis Racquet 30/-
Big illustrated Red Spot Bargain Catalogue Free!
When writing, kindly address your letter to Desk R.
copyright.
■>
“The Worlds Largest Men's and Boys' Wear Store"


4
P' : : •
&$* ‘'''SSiS^sS
’
Spend Your Summer Holidays
at the new “Hotel Manly”
Right opposite the Manly Wharf is
this new luxurious Hotel. Expense
has been no object in making it one
of the finest resorts of its kind in
the Southern Hemisphere. From the
moment you step into the Reception
Hall you are surrounded with com-
fort and personal service. Large and lofty
bedrooms, with tasteful, new furniture and
spotless linen, give restful invitation, and
the constant supply of hot and cold water
to each room is a refreshing boon to every
guest. You can lie abed with reading-lamp
and. telephone at your elbow....you can
enjoy the artistic atmosphere of the perfect
music-r00m... .or wield a racquet on the full-
sized roof Tennis Court.
Motoring guests have the convenience of
an ample basement garage—and the surf is
only four minutes distant.
Make early summer reservations at the
Hotel Manly and be certain of holiday con-
tentment.
Exclusive accommodation from £7/7/- per
week.
Full particulars and complete tariff will
be posted immediately in response to your
inquiry to
Hotel Manly,
Manly, N.S.W.
Manly 1961 (4 lines) and Manly 27.
SUNDRY SHOWS.
SYDNEY SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Hek Majesty’s “Rose Marie’’
Criterion “Cobra”
Royal “lolanthe”
Palace “White Cargo”
Grand Orera House “Aladdin”
St. James “Jack and the Beanstalk”
Puller's Vaudeville
Tivoli Vaudeville
MEI.BOURNE SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
His Majesty’s “The Cousin from Nowhere”
King’s “The Naughty Wife”
Royal “Pins and Needles”
Princess “Puss in Boots”
Athenaeum “The Best People”
Tivoli Vaudeville
Bijou Vaudeville
Majestic Moving Pictures
Hoyt’s Moving Pictures
♦ '
“lolanthe” will scatter the fragrance of
a fresh musical bouquet at the Sydney lioyal
on Saturday; “The Yeomen of the Guard,”
like good soldiers, have to obey the schedule
and march off to-morrow (Friday) night in
spite of continued public approval. The
Palace sees a change, too; “White Cargo,”
starting from Saturday, gives a brief season
of three weeks, the theatre having been pro-
mised to the Repertorians after that time.
Judith Anderson unfolds the serpentine
charms of the vamp in “Cobra” at the
Criterion so well that she makes a poor play
seem an almost good one. Last week was
“Rose Marie’s” 33rd, which means that
even in the record of weeks the bright musi-
cal comedy has now beaten “Our Miss
Gibbs,” which ran for 32|; but, as the older
success lived in the days of one matinee per
week, the tally of performances is much in
favor of “Rose Marie.” “Jack and the
Beanstalk” is a very profitable tenant of
the St. James; and at the Grand Opera
House “Aladdin” has convinced the manage-
ment that there is magic in lamps. Sydney
never before showed such a hunger for panto.
Though somewhat far off, the arrival of
“Sunny” and the opening of the New Empire
Theatre is being proclaimed ; the event takes
place on February 28.
❖ ❖ % He
The Archibald-Mclnnes prize :
George Lambert is a notable absentee from this
.Year’s competition for tile prize which J. F. Archi-
bald devised for the encouragement of young Austra-
lians in painting the portraits of distinguished Aus-
tralians. Lambert was very annoyed that his por-
trait of George Judah Cohen did not win last year;
and apparently he declines to play, speaks with the
competition any more. For the fifth time the prize,
now worth about £550, goes to W. B. Melnnes, who
doesn’t need encouragement. He was not a competi-
tor last year—lie was in Europe—and Longstaff won ;
but that is the only time he has missed. His picture
“Silk and Laces” is a portrait of Bulletin artist
Esther Paterson—a finely executed work, vivacious
in expression and remarkable in the treatment of the
dress textures. A special commendation is given by
the Trustees to the portrait of William Slade, by J.
Lawson Balfour; but even if it had been decided that
Melnnes had won the prize often enough, it would
have been a surprise to see it go to Balfour. His
pictures have some very good points, but there are
others present in which you get more vivid per-
sonality. In Longstaff’s offering one of John Grice
stands out; there is strength, and sure workmanship
also, in those of A. Consett Stephen and Lauehlan
Mackinnon. In the latter the subject seems delight-
fully poised between a sense of his legal duties as a
sportsman and his sporting instincts as a solicitor.
Averaging Longstaff’s work it eclipses that of
Melnnes, YY'hose offering includes a stodgy “Por-
trait” of a gentleman in hunting coat and boots.
People in Bohemian circles or thereabouts have a
better look-in this year than usual. A “Portrait” by
Charles Wheeler is a very good likeness of Norman
Li Hoy, Argus sub-editor, dramatic critic and good-
fellow, although the picture runs too much to furni-
ture. Another of Wheeler’s, Mrs. George Benson, is
very sympathetically done. A pair of lively contri-
butions are made by J. S. Watkins, and A. D.
Colquhouh has a salloYV Fritz Hart. George Bell has
painted Mrs. George Bell in a manner not calculated
to cause her annoyance ; J. S. Watkins also makes his
wife one of his subjects. George Finey has left the
portraiture of his wife to Percival Norton, and the
result in that case is enough to shatter friendship.
In an excellent picture Joe Wolinski presents A. H.
Fullwood ; but his study of his father, the Rev. A. D.
Wolinski, the veteran Jewish minister, is a crime
against part of the decalogue ; a worried-looking W.
A. Holman is even worse. A. H. Fullwood has a
portrait of “Bob” Bonar, a Sydney identity who
taught many of the now large Sydney hatless brigade
their hatlessness ; but he has made merely a colored
sketch of a good subject.
The show tails from a good level into aYvfulness.
P. White represents Monash as something resembling
a Chinese joss, rather badly made; Ray S. Gower
makes a hash of her own features; Christopher Mur-
ray produces an angular lady in a greenish dress
that lacks texture; Marion Jones provides Col.
T. F. Rutledge with a face of painted wood and a
basilisk stare; and C. W. Peck, in a self-portrait,
puts ’ himself in a khaki uniform which has turned
green in streaks. And beyond that depth there is
despair.
** * *
This Showman went to the fourth M.T.A.
Motor Exhibition at Sydney Agricultural
Grounds this week. He happened to be the
only person left in Sydney who does not know
anything about motor-cars, except what it
feels like to be occasionally pursued by one.
He doesn’t know how to sound the carburet-
ter, or even step on the magneto. But it
was a brave sight, even for the scarred
pedestrian, to view those rows and rows
of gallant gas-steeds in their luxuriously-
furnished stalls. Their glossy coats, then-
calm insouciance, their self-satisfied pride,
purring their happiness, made the visitor
wonder whether the human race would ever
become as proficient and as well dressed.
Around these beautiful beings fussed untidy
specimens of the 11)27 model of homo sapiens,
extolling the ‘virtues of their giants. Tim
glimpse of a 1-h.p. car, progressing wearily
and clumsily on four legs, indicated how
wonderfully had the breeding improved in
the brief space of a single decade. And it
was a significant thought that this parade of
such haughty excellence was staged in the
stables of the ground given up each Easter
to the original strain of the 1-h.p. moke.
* * * *
Further reflections at the motor show:—
The time seems to be coming when the rebellious
flatite will be able to make his motor-car his home.
Some of the luxurious saloon cars are drawing-
rooms, and can be turned into bedrooms quite
simply; tent attachments provide sleeping-out veran-
dahs ; and there are lockers, cunningly concealed
behind cushioned seats, where an entire larder can
be kept.
Apart from the luxury vehicles, this year’s show
is rich in exhibits in the plain utility class. The
most remarkable advance is in light delivery wag-
gons; even the milkman nowadays brings the juice
of the cow to the door by motor. Another feature
is the elimination of labor in regard to keeping a
car in order. Gone are the days when the car-
owner (unless he could pay someone to do the job
for him) had to climb under his car to apply an oi'-
can where it was needed. Even in this show are
cars which need oiling at 50 Widely-scattered
points; but there is one up-to-date model in which
a mere pressure on a pedal squirts lubricant to
every point that needs it. This and a hundred
other little contraptions providing for saving of
work, economy in fuel and safety shows how
necessary it is for the intending motor-owner to go
through a course of motor study—such as the show
provides—before making a purchase.
The work of Australian mechanics is shown to
good advantage. It is hard to imagine anything
more artistic than some of the body work; and
there is no reason in the w'ide world why Australia
should not build whole cars as well.
❖* * *
Santrey’s band will crash out its farewell
at Sydney Tivoli on Saturday night, having
made a much longer stay on the circuit
than was originally intended. The polished
wire-walking turn of Zoe Delphine and Co.
is back, and fills a large space in the bill;
and Clement May, although his Dickens
characterisations are over-melodramatised, is
a welcome returnee. J. Francis Haney,
“THE YEOMEN OF THE GUARD,” AT
SYDNEY ROYAL.
Charles Walnut as Jack Point, and John Ral-
ston as Wilfred Shadbolt, the Tormentor.
witli a team of dancers described as stars
and said to be of the whirlwind variety—
Catherine wheels, probably—-make next
week's big attraction.
The Eleven Rascals are a lively combina-
tion of girlish acrobats, some of them very
young, who give a good deal of move-
ment to the first part of the pro-
gramme at Fullers’ Theatre (Sydney) ;
Paul Deburr, who does remarkable
stunts with pieces of paper, shares with
them the honors of the first part. The
Zig-Zag revue company has recruited Flor-
ence Hunter and Sydney Smith, who were
in “Mercenary Mary”; this week they help
in sowing “Wild Oats,” which, instead of
being a mere revue, is a “musical comedy
playlet.” Anyway, it is a swift-spinning
chapter of incidents and accidents.
•I 1 *!* ‘l*
The search for the week’s picture in Syd-
ney :
“The Barrier” that Rex Beach penned, though it
lias got a. peaceful end, is full of fierce and fervid
fights, in which the hero much delights, and storms
that rage in Arctic seas—these storms will every
patrdn please! The captain, with a sneering
lip, commands an ancient whaling ship; a
mother and her lovely child are picked up in the
ocean wild. The daughter has a fateful flaw—her
mother was an Indian squaw! The mother’s mur-
MELBOURNE TIVOLI.
Baby Joy Randall, the four-year-old pianist
who plays popular selections when
encouraged by stage-manager Maurice
Rodin.
dered, and the mate abducts the maiden—-but just
wait! The years pass on (the screen relates), but
on the film there are no waits. The captain (Lionel
Barrymore) now bosses an Alaskan store; despite
the interval’s elapse the two are just as fond of
scraps. Meantime a soldier laughs at Pate and in
the half-breed finds a mate. What does he care for
Indian squaws ? He laughs at all the social laws!
(Last reel.) The captain of the ship is swallowed
in the ice-pack grip, still with that sneer upon his
lip! The icebergs quite a picture make, but are
they, after all, a fake? Yet every patron will adore
the sneer of Lionel Barrymore. “The Barrier” is
on the screen; at Hoyt’s and Strand it now is seen.
The wild-west cowboy known as Mix will have
to learn some better tricks; Ken Maynard’s now
the cowboy king (he started in the circus ring).
He rides four mokes—not circus hacks —and gallops
standing on their backs. So, bo.ys, “The Unknown
Cavalier” is something good, and now he’s here!
His name is printed large in caps, this hero in his
sheepskin “chaps.” So here’s sensation, and a
treat—the stuff that every lad will eat! And Tarzan,
quite a human horse, will share the limelight stuff,
of course. This is a film that Youth enjoys—-and
Dad will surely take the boys! Their pleading he
will not withstand: it’s on at Hoyt’s and at the
Strand.
* * * *
A belief is current that, although Austra-
lian actors can represent Venetian Jews,
Moors, Frenchmen and others, they are
mysteriously incapable of portraying the
modern white American. Hence, whenever
a play arrives which deals with American
society, a complete cast of persons who talk
through their noses, which millions of real
Americans never do. is invariably imported
with it. Under such conditions “The Best
People” was first introduced to Melbourne.
Unfortunately for the popular theory before
mentioned, for one reason and another,
several leading members of the original col-
lection have drifted home, and there being
no shortage of native mummers, for the pur-
poses of the short revival that began on
Saturday at the Athenaeum their clothes
were worn by Australians. Despite the
closest critical observation, the present
Showman was unable to detect any descent
from the heights of the original production.
Beatrice Day. who has manipulated a few
characters in her time, graced the part of
Mrs. Lenox, the aristocratic lady who can’t
bear the marriage of her children with a
chorus-gal and a chauffeur. Although to a
Manhattan connoisseur Miss Day’s accent may
have been open to objection, the deficiency,
if it was a deficiency, didn’t matter. The
business of drama is not with fussy details
but with the creation of emotional reactions
in. the audience. Miss Day was definitely
aristocratic, whereas the aristocracy of her
predecessor had to be taken largely for
granted, and the futility of her anguish,
while her children callously removed each
successive stone of her foundations, was
admirably rendered. She had for husband
J. B. Rowe, who was the idiotic Englishman
of the earlier setting. He, too, ably carried
a heavy burden without the aid of the
S ™ H ; Lane-Bayliff obtained
J f "! tale ° f laughs for Lord Itockmere,
and Eileen Morris, as the middle-class spin-
wt W , l °ri a l nM ’ re principle than her social
betteis, didn t jar. Helen Audiffred, as the
rude, rebellious daughter; Robert Adams, as
n , asal , love l’.: Richard Ehlers and that
casual but effective comedienne Marian
Lord renewed their earlier successes, and
got ripples of laughter in their first pav-
envelopes. The comedy is light, interesting
and amusing. The difficult last act, with
its lack of action and its mort of explana-
tions, was shrewdly stage-managed. It
could easily have been made as null as a
wet Sunday.
One quite natural consequence of the war
was that Herman music fell into disrepute,
and there was even an attempt to make it
a punishable offence, along with the buying of
German goods. The most obvious results
were that high-class concerts lost interest
for music-lovers, and a symphony concert
worth listening to became as rare as wet
days at Wilutia. _ Another consequence was
the repetition of familiar Italian operas
to the verge of boredom. The Taits think
the time is now ripe artistically to let by-
gones be bygones. The Italian curriculum of
their forthcoming grand opera season in Sep-
tember will be leavened with Wagnerian
examples, including “Lohengrin,” “Tann-
hauser,” “The Flying Dutchman” and “The
Valkyrie.” And German artists are to be
engaged to sing them.
** * *
Ada Reeve is still the custodian of “The
Empty House”; but the remark has nothing
to do with the condition of Melbourne Royal.
The Naughty Wife” has been given eight
days notice to vacate the King’s in favor
of the enigmatical Mrs.- Cheney; “The
Hottentot” provides comedy, loud if not low,
at the Palace; and at the Princess “Puss
in Roots” clings tenaciously to its two per-
formances a day. “The Cousin from No-
where ’ is still arriving at His Majesty’s.
Raby Joy Randall, a four-year-old musical
phenomenon, is interesting Melbourne Tivoli.
The curtain- goes up to reveal Joy mounted
on a rocking-horse. Her “father,” who may
be stage-manager Nodin thinly disguised in
evening dress, enters and presents her with
a grand piano. Unshaken by the magnitude
of the gift, Joy sits down and plays any
popular tune requested with the arch com-
posure of a Dal Monte and the ruthless pre-
cision of an electrically-controlled pianola.
One wonders what will become of Joy, and
whether, having picked up semibreves and
quavers from the passing milk-boy, she will
ever essay the harder task of learning to
recognise them in cold print. Otherwise her
vogue will only last if she refuses to grow
bigger.
** * *
Melbourne Bijou is being preyed upon by
singing comedians who hunt the shy laugh
in pairs. Of such are Keith and Witt, with
voices that should hang up half the receivers
in the State and fuse the connections of
the rest; and Taylor and Summers, who
however, are genuinely funny as a parson
and parsoness. Henri French is a juggler
who is versatile but does too many things
and nothing long; and Harold Walden, the
Yorkshire humorist, left his warmest mot
smoking on the air and departed on Satur-
day. George Wallace is engaged on a new
outpouring of his genius, called “Some
Night.”
A hurricane was obtained to provide a
background for the crimes of Lionel Barry-
more as the brutal whaler of “The Barrier”
at Hoyt’s Melbourne house this week. Pris-
cilla Dean returns to the screen of her Majes-
tic labors as “The Danger Girl,” a secret-
service lady who bluffs a gang of thieves
with more pluck than plausibility. “Love
Your Wife,” the supporting picture, is a
pul tor husbands, coated with comedy.
*❖ * *
Barring Billy Maloney’s evening show in
the open at the Exhibition Gardens—where
Rupert Ilazell is now lending a hand with
the humor—the _ weather has been no good
ut all to Adelaide shows, there being* six
consecutive days of over 100 and the nights
only a trifle better. Sundry juvenile panto-
mimes did well to get out of the furnace.
l>ut George AV&rd, with a revue co., draws
to the Majestic crowds whom the weather,
doesn t seem to worry. Pictures are on
the adventurous side. Fairbanks is a roman-
tic Black Pirate at the York, Hoot Gibson
brings Ins horse to the Pav., and Tom Mix
Ins to the Grand. Jack Holt hovers between
duty and the girl—and manages to com-
bine both, in a way that film heroes have—
West's. Also Little Willie bobs up again
ui “East Lynne” at the Empire; that kid
absolutely refuses to die —with any finality.
O. Ocfcney”: Shakspearean leading men
delight in playing Shylock—-perhaps the
easiest and most effective character-part
created by the actor-bard. Sir Frank Ben-
son. though ill, lately played “the .Tew that
Shakspeare drew” for the 2000th time.


Mic
0
0
“Australia’s Recog'nised Home of Every Sport’*
©
Golf Bags
Mick Simmons’ have a most extensive range from which to select.
Whether it is a serviceable Canvas Bag or first-quality Leather Bag you
seek, you will find just that particular one at this great Store. Here are
some of our special Bags attractively priced:—
Brown Canvas, leather fittings throughout 12/6
Brown or Blue Canvas, superior leather fittings, cane supports, very light
and strong. The ideal Bag for the Lady Golfer, inch 15/6
Fawn Canvas, superior leather fittings, cane supports. Extremely light
and durable, it is suitable for lady or gentleman.
4i inch ■ 18/6
5 inch 21/-
Willow Hide, white green-hide lacing, .2 canes, highly polished finish.
A most popular Bag amongst all classes of Golfers . 37/6
Fawn Canvas, with lightning hood and padlock, superior leather fittings,
cane supports 45/-
Willow Calf, white Buckskin facings. Lightning Fastener up full length
of Bag, on pocket and hood. 6 inch. Makes an excellent presentation
Bag £6/ 6/ -
Special “Will Corry” Clubs
A New Shipment Just Landed of These Popular Clubs.
Fitted with A-Grade Hickory Shafts, and specially pre-
pared grips, these Clubs undoubtedly represent the
finest examples of the club-maker’s craft. Each club i 3
individually tested and inspected by Mr. Corry.
Brassies, Drivers and Spoons , . 25/-
Irons 18/0
Special Graded Irons 20/ *
Free Practice
The Golf Nets on our Roof Sports Ground are open to Golfers
at any hour of the day.
All Clubs and Balls Supplied.
The Famous “ Gleneagle ” Clubs
Ideal for the Beginner and Average Player.
Dependable in every way, these Clubs are undoubtedly
the Finest Value Offering.
Brassies, Drivers, Mid Irons, Mashies, Mashie Niblics
and Putters 10/6
Golf Tuition
Learn the Fine Points of the Game from an Expert.
Secluded Private Lessons are given by Mr. Will Corry and Mr.
Harry Sinclair, two of Australia’s foremost Professionals, on
our Roof Sports Ground.
A
worthy of the Skill of the Greatest Tennis
Champion
The “ Masterstroke ”
Australia’s Finest Tennis Racket.
A product of fine Australian craftsman-
ship, constructed of the best obtainable
in materials, it is thoroughly dependable,
beautifully finished, and perfect in weight,
shape and balance 77/6
TENNIS REPAIRS
A Feature of this Great Store’s Complete Service.
EXPERT WORKMANSHIP - - - - LOWEST CHARGES.
The “Haymarket Selected”
The Most Reasonably-Priced High-Grade
Racket on the Market To-day.
Made of Specially-Selected English Ash, bevelled frame,
shoulders bound with gut, and throat reinforced with
green-hide. Perfectly balanced and dependable in every
way, it is a Racket that also stands in the front rank .. . 45 /-
TENNIS TUITION
Lessons are given on our full-size Roof Tennis Court. Strict
privacy is observed, and' rapid proficiency assured. The fee is
reasonable.
DEPENDABLE GUNS and RIFLES
Attractively Priced
B.S.A. D.B. Hammerless Shot Gun, 12-gauge, 30in.
barrels, both choke, nitro proof, fluid compressed steel
barrels, automatic safety pistol grip; weight about
611 b
(Carriage Paid.)
£l3/5/-
No. 10.
Winchester Single-Shot Rifle, 1904 Model, for .22 short,
long or long rifle rim-fire cartridges; 2 1 in. heavy round
steel barrel, plain trigger, bolt action, ladder rear sight;
length of rifle over all, 37^in.; plain front sight, weight
about 41b
45/-
(Postage: N.S.W., 1/9; Other States, 3/2.)
GUN AND RIFLE REPAIRS.
Send your damaged Gun or Rifle along to us. However small the repairs, every care is taken, and only the best workmanship put into the job.
SPECIAL GOLF, TENNIS AND SHOOTING CATALOGUES POST FREE ON REQUEST.
r td
m
“THE WORLD’S GREATEST SPORTS STORE,”
Headquarters: 720 HAYMARKET, SYDNEY.
BRANCHES: CITY, SUBURBS, NEWCASTLE and BRISBANE.


300-YARD BEAM,
fsd
THE IDEAL TORCH FOR
ALL USES.
THE NEW WINCHESTER FOCUSSING
TORCH throws a narrow beam of light for a
distance of 300 yards. Ideal for all outdoor
purposes. In the car, on the land, boatin- or
fishing. Nickel Case, 31-inch lens. Length of
torch 10 inches. Price o| /
WINCHESTER 100-YARD FOCUSSING TORCH
Fibre case, well finished. 6-iin. long Neat
and compact. Price ".. <- /
WINCHESTER PLAIN TORCH, '*6 Jin. ion-
Fibre cue, Strong and serviceable. Price, 8/fi
AH Winchester Torches are fitted with patent
Safety Switch, and are remarkably stron-.
Spare Batteries for the large torch, 3-cell JJ /r-
Spare Batteries for the smaller torch, 2-cell’ 1 /q
Postage on Torches, 9d. Spare Batteries. 6dl
SPORTS CENTRE
318 Little Collins St. 'iplbonrne.
What Insurance Do You Carry?
Fire? Flood? Burglars? Accident?
Death? But have you insured the Comfort
of your Home and the Health of your
Family?
SEWAGE
OXIDATION
Is Best Policy.
Water-Flush Your House. Remove Pan, Cesspit, Filth, Smell,
Rlownies and Danger. Place Your Suburban, Seaside or
Country Home on the level of the Water-sewered City Residence.
USED IN 7100 AUSTRALIAN HOMES.
Send to 'Nearest Address for Free Booklet describing Sewage Oxidation Plan.
Your Name
Your Address
DESK
Bn.
fsd
Price Complete
from £BO up.
SYDNEY: Hoskins Buildings, 3 Spring Street. MELBOURNE: 187 a Flinders Lane.
BRISBANE: Queen Street. ADELAIDE: Bennett’s Buildings, Currie Street.
PERTH: Economic Chambers, William Street. [S.B.
Babies
thrive on
d
is so
nourishina and
easy to digest
In 4 sizes
of all Chemists & Stores
Poverty
Point
“Scrutator”: A list of “memorable plays”
staged in London during 1926, compiled by
the well-known critic S. It. Little wood for
the “Daily Mail Year Book,” includes Scan
O'Casey’s "The Plough and the Stars”
(almost as great an attraction as the same
author’s “Juno and the Paycock”) ; “Autumn
Fire,” by T. C. Murray (like O’Casey, a pro-
duct of the Dublin Abbey Theatre) ; a costume
comedy founded on incidents in the life
of Pepys, by J. Bernard Fagan, “And So to
Bed.” Amongst British comedies that had
good runs were “The Cat’s Cradle,” by A.
and P. Stuart, in which Marie Tempest and
Graham Browne appeared; “This Woman
Business,” 4>y Ben Levy; and Phillpotts’s
"Tellow Sands,” which, produced in early
November, looks like staying at the Hay-
market for a year or more. John Gals-
worthy’s "Escape” (recently put on in Paris
by an English co.) and Edgar Wallace’s
“The Ringer,” described as “a brilliant
crook play” (which started at Wyndlmm's
in May last and is still in the bills), were
the outstanding drama hits. And not one of
these pieces has been seen in Australia.
“Lud” : Alfred Woods and Maud William-
son, after a long sojourn in the U.S.A., are
again in England on tour. They are appearing
in what purports to be a new American farce,
“Naughty Nights,” which looks like a
winner. The author is “Watson Bay,” who
may be Alfred or Maud, or both.
“Goldilocks”: The lire which damaged the
Auckland Opera House is going to benefit
the capital of the northern province; a
theatre on the lines of the .Sydney St. James,
costing 150,000, will be made out of the
edifice. That is not the only work architect
Henry White has on hand in M.L. for the
Fuller firm; a theatre to be known as the
Majestic is to go up on the Christchurch
clock-tower square—it also will follow the
St. James model—and the big Empress pic-
ture-house in Wellington is to be replaced
by one holding 3000.
“Topee”: Dual-voiced people (B.
13/l/’27) V Elderly Sydneyites may re-
member Amy Rowe who, billed as “The
Australian double-voiced vocalist.” per-
formed at the old Haymarket, Alhambra
and kindred variety shows in the ’eighties.
Amy's voices were soprano and baritone,
both of them pleasant in quality, sufficient
in compass and equally under control. Her
showpiece was a sloppy ballad of the
period. -‘I Dreamt, My Little Boy, of Thee.”
Sung in soprano, her baritone was intro-
duced as a chorus refrain.
“John s Wood" (Loud.) : Florence Austral,
who made such a hit on her last American
tour, is off again to the States, where an
extended list of important engagements has
been arranged for her. Her farewell London
appearance was timed for December 12 at
the Albert Hall.
A.G.M. (Bond.) : John Coates seems
to have entered on an Indian summer in his
art, and at every fresh appearance enhances
Ins reputation as a master singer. His recital
or Christmas and festive songs at the Chenil
Galleries in early December extended over
a wide range of English aiid French com-
positions from the sixteenth century to the
present day. The audience of intelligentsia
paid the tribute of a real ovation to the
singer s great art.
(Bond.) : Melba’s appearance at
the Old \ ic. has been advertised as her last
before departure for Australia. The phrase-
ology is just the same as it was 80 years
aao. so it looks as though her farewells may
gladden the hearts of her friends for many
? d »y yet. The proposed final appearances
m Paris and Brussels did not materialise,
which shows that even peerless prime domic
cannot always have things their own way.
The superb artistry with which she still
uses the golden voice, so as not unduly to
expose the toll of time, is a delight to all
who love beauty of tone and impeccable
technique. Much disappointment has been
felt over her decision to have Percy Pitt
conduct for her at the Old Vic. instead of
entrusting that task to the very competent
permanent conductor of the house, Charles
Corri. The Dame generously defrayed the
entire cost of the increased orchestra, and
used the occasion to give a helping bit of
publicity to John Brownlee, Thomas Minogue
and Gertrude Johnson, whose fees she made
her own charge. The Willow Song and the
Ave Maria from “Otollo” were broadcasted,
the transmission occupying nearly half an
hour.
“8.F.8.”: It will be interesting to see if
the Firm produces “Madame Pompadour”
this year. It has been in hand for over three
years. Williamsons would not give the
part to Gladys Moncrieff for some unknown
reason, and they have no one else who could
possibly do it. After testing a few they are
now talking of importing someone. Yet the
role just shrieks aloud for Gladys.
“Curtain Raiser’’: Now that the Melbourne
Repertory Society has apparently ceased to
be the real thing, the plucky solo effort of
Berosford Fowler and his Bittle Art co. gains
in importance. Fowler has a lot of dis-
advantages to contend with at the Queen’s
Hall. Impressive entrances are difficult, as
the stage has to be reached by a flight of
steps, and dramatic exits are harder, since
the character departing usually has to climb
NOT WATERLOGGED, ANYHOW.
“They tell me Brown was a perfect wreck
at the supper last night.”
“Oh, no—he pulled himself together, and
was sailing into port when I left.”
over or under the stage furniture. But with
a crisp dramatic situation and a good cast
nobody notices these drawbacks—the import-
ance of elaborate staging may be over-rated.
The co. even proposes to produce a new play
weekly. Tcliekhof's “The Seagull” will be aii
ear-ly issue.
“Digger Stror-’At”: When “The Yeomen
of the Guard” was first produced in 1888 it
was necessary to discover a successor to
Rutland Barrington, who had gone into man-
agement on his own. The part of Wilfred
was handed to W. 11. Denny, an actor just
returned from Australia, whose face, proved
liis fortune. He was an instantaneous suc-
cess. Few could look grimmer in a comic
manner: and his voice was as churcliyardy
as his forbidding black countenance. Albert
Kavanagli, our last excellent Wilfred, who
had a big job when facing the well-remem-
bered triumphs of Howard Vernon in the
unctuous role, died a few weeks after return-
ing to England from the last Australian tour.
He and Charles Walenn had been bosom
friends for years.
“C. Ockney” : Charles Heslop, the brainy
comedy-merchant who was seen here in vari-
ous musical frivolities a while ago, has found
a congenial role in England as the hero of
a farce called “His Wild Oat.” The piece
introduces the counterfeit presentments of
Hall Caine and Bernard Shaw amongst its
dramatis persona'. G.R.S., on being
approached regarding the innovation, cheer-
fully joined in the fun, even writing an
imaginary scene between himself and the
author of “The Christian.”
THE ARTIST : “Maudie has a wonderful
figure:’
THE LADY : “Yes, hasn’t she? She can put
her waistline just anywhere she likes.”
“Flaming Youth”: The adventure of
“Bis” (B. 13/l/’27) is one amongst a hun-
dred. Our show was stranded in Danne-
virke (M.L.) two days before Christmas.
The show was billed for Gisborne on Boxing
Day, but had no hope of getting there; there
was only enough money to take the co. to
Waipukarau, then a little untouched one-
pub town. The co. arrived there with two
bob all told. The men dossed in the hall,
the women in a boarding-house. Then the
pianist met a friend and borrowed ten bob.
That night the male members of the com-
pany, taking a salvaged watering-can, made
a midnight revel of “billing” the town ; and
the next day everybody knew we were there.
The food at the dingy-looking boarding-
house proved unusually good ; residents came
in in buggies to show us the beauties of the
district, on Christmas afternoon we took
part in a Married v. Single cricket match,
and on Boxing Night the “house” was so good
(£37) that another night was played.
“Chesar's Ghost” : A hard-hearted creditor
pursued the Stonebroke Dramatic Co. into
another town with legal authority to collect
the amount by levy upon the co.’s goods.
Stonebroke, in the act of “opening up the
house,” received him calmly. He suggested
that the creditor should go into the ticket-
box, sell the tickets himself and take the
money. Then Stonebroke got all the co.’s
goods out of the theatre and sent the co.
on the road to a new town before the doors
were opened. Ilis creditor rejoiced as he
reckoned that every bob that came in was
helping to liquidate his debt. “The
cow didn’t know what was coming to him,”
Stonebroke told me afterwards. “I’d been
round the town that day and sold a few
quids’ worth of tickets. He must have won-
dered what had happened when he found he
had to pay back a lot more money than lie
had taken.”
“Simula” : In announcing the glories of an
American pitcher the publicity hound proudly
asserted that the camera-man “had filmed one
spot in particular which had never been
visited before by a motion-picture group.”
Particular picturesque locations have done
good service in more than one film.
The same barren sands are met with
again and again; apparently there is
only one handy desert island for trea-
sure research; there are stretches of
prairie that are recognised by the picture
patron; and there is one group of cliffs that
must now be almost worn away by continual
“shooting.” There is one island scene which the
hardened filmabuster is sure to recognise. At
any moment an ancient galleon is due to
round that bluff and steer straight into the
cove where the pirate ship is lurking. I’ve
seen that galleon in “Roinola,” and once be-
fore that—l think in “The Sea Hawk”; and
now it pops up again in “The Black Pirate ”
Must be a Mort’s Dockyard for galleons iust
round that point.
“Mid Channel”: The Bulletin's Show-
man says that he can't remember Leslie Victor
being guilty of an inartistic bit of stone-
work “since lie was Cayley Brummie in
Broughs ‘Second Mrs. Tanqueray’ some ‘>s
years ago.” Surely he is in error here When
the original production of Pinero's work took
place, Boucicault was the Cayley 1 >rummle
When Boucicault severed from Brough and
the Brough co. played the piece. Brough
himself took the part of Cayley Brummie
Joseph Came being Tanqueray. Later on
the Pl l mmer-Denmston co. produced it. but
Victor was not in that production. Victor’s
part in the Brough production was Sir
George Orreyed, the bibulous baronet.
“Bobette" : Madame Boult was surely one
of Australia’s most prolific if not most suc-
cessful playwrights, She was a cultured
woman ; and she anticipated Bernard Shaw
by her production—-for some charity—of
"Joan of Arc.” She wrote many semi-histori-
cal plays which I imagine had little hope of
seeing .the light, though Oscar Asdic, on his
first visit here, was seriously contemplating
the possibilities of one called “The Ethio-
pian.”
. ,* ‘Bobette” : When Dorothy Cummings (B.
b/1/27) played lead in a farce written and
produced by Madame Boult, she had had no
professional experience, and that was not
so many months before she appeared in
“Everywoman.” Dorothy’s talent was 'cer-
tainly eclipsed by her beauty; but she did not
do so badly, and improved vastly after a few
months’ touring. Then she made as creditable a
showing as many of the imported young
actresses who use the Australian stage as a
training-school.
“Ilamfat”: Arnold Bennett put a lot of
hard work into his scheme for providing
good theatrical fare on the outskirts of
London, where the rents would not eat up
the takings ; but lie declined to put any money
into The Beggar s Opera” at Hammersmith,
lie got Lord Beaverbrook interested to the
extent of £1000; Beaverbrook brought in
Lord Rothermere and Sir Edward Hulton
with £lOOO each, and the backing of their
Papers was valuable. Marion Wilson, left
£7OO by her father, put it into the show, and
made £17,000; but she lost it all in trying to
establish British ballet at the unlucky Kings-
way.
“Sclinorrer” : How hungry London-is for
Sunday theatrical performances is shown by
the number of Christian members of the
Jewish Drama League, which had been given
a good pusli-off by Zangwill. As a society
selling its tickets only to its members, it is
entitled to have its shows on the Sunday.
The Chamberlain’s regulations merely pro-
hibit the sale of tickets to anyone who lias
not been a member of the league for seven
days. Now some Jews are complaining that
they can’t get seats because of Christians
who have joined the league and got in ahead
of them. For a performance of “Yellow
Sands” at the Ilaymarket all the good seats
were sold out two weeks ahead of time.
Caesar’s Ghost”: The habit of going
“round the back” has almost died out; but
it is stated of “The Ghost Train,” which
the Carrolls are introducing to Australia,
that King George’s curiosity was excited
enough to make him take the pilgrimage; and
Alphonso of Spain, when in London, showed
a similar curiosity. The tendency to reim
troduce elaborate scenic sensations, exhibited
in this piece, shows that tile wheel is work-
ing round again.
“F.M.1.”: “Two Seas” (B. 23/12/’26)
asks how many of the members of the “Fra-
ternity of Mutual Imps” are alive to-day.
There are, I think, but six: Harry and Fred
Skinner, Louis Nicholson, Dick Stewart
(manager of the Criterion Theatre), W. A.
Roberts and another whose name I cannot
think of. Our first lodgerooms were at Com-
pagnoni’s Cafe. E. 1). Tollemaclie, A. F.
(Arch Fiend) Tolly, Dick Stewart, Charlie
Propsting and myself used to prepare the
regalia. Once we occupied rooms opposite
the G.P.0., Pitt-street. After a stay at
Baumann’s we occupied our own quarters
on the site of the old Victoria Theatre—in
1885. My brother Imp has omitted the
names of several of our best entertainers,
Willie Warner, Walter Keen, E. C. Dunbar,
John Gilpin and Chris Sheppard. Walter
Carle was steward. Our orchestra included
the conductors of all the metropolitan
theatres, Rivers Allpress, Fransic, Gus
Kusler, Percy Pagnotti and many others.
Dave Clyne, mentioned by “Two Seas,” after-
wards made a name for himself in England
and America, supporting Mrs. Patrick Camp-
bell, Tree, Geo. Alexander and other stars.
“Strict Veg.”: Pavement artists are usu-
ally conservatives, but there is one operat-
ing in front of St. Paul’s Cathedral (Melb.)
who shows originality. lie is exhibiting
authentic portraits of Christ, Shakspeare,
Tom Mix. and Henry Lawson, and sells
pencil copies of the masterpieces at two
shillings. There is little business doing in
the sacred and literary departments, but
Tom Mix is selling like hot cakes.
A DANCER.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
She’s a woman—that is all.
Grant that she is magical,
She is womankind, no less,
Given much of loveliness;
Beauty, rhythm she may claim—
Other women have the same.
Here and there in every race
God has given charm of face,
Gracious body, figure slim,
Firm young breast and lissom limb ;
All these graces are too rare—
Beauty should be everywhere!
But that in one lovely line
All these gifts she should combine:
That she stands .supreme, alone,
Queen of rhythm on her 'throne;
That in all she is supreme—
That a miracle I deem !
Only as a memory
Can this dancer captured be.
Nothing Of the painter's art
Can contribute any part
Of her wonder and her grace !
Who can limn that fleeting face?
She has just a memory made;
T.ike a dream her art must fade.
Flowing motion is her theme,
Loveliness that we may dream.
So it reads like some romance—
-1 have seen Pavlova dance!
Posed before the lens’s eye,
What of beauty we descry?
Fixed for aye—that fluid thing ?
Killed —the bird upon the wing !
Just a memory we prize:
She is Motion—or she dies !
Like a drifting snowflake dead,
In a moment she has sped.
Posed upon a perfect toe,
As we gaze we see her go.
Breathless, as we w r atch her sway,
Time has carried her away!
Melodies around her come;
Music flows—but she is dumb.
Poised upon the top of Time,
Can I fix her in a rhyme?
Carved and caged in marble cold,
She is almost. .. .almost... .old !
N.SAV.
ARTHUR H. ADAMS.


L.
No. 99 SET.—Contains the essen-
tials for a perfect “Valet Shave -
the razor, strop and blade in
leatherette case as illustrated
below
3/6
Unequalled
Value for 3/6
A RAZOR that strops its blade without requiring a special
machine.
A superfine blade of highest-quality steel, the edge of which is
originally tuned up to perfection and by means of the self-stropping
device —right in the razor head —shows actual daily improvement.
The tenth shave with a “Valet” blade is as good as the first, and the
fiftieth as good as the tenth.
A combination embodying the simplest and sanest principles
nothing to take to pieces for either stropping or cleaning—simplicity
itself 1
13
si
3)
BRITISH
MADE.
“VALE
Safety Razor
OF ALL
DEALERS
The Auto Strop Safety Razor Co., Ltd.,
197-207 City Road, London, England.
Managing Agents for Australia —
PHIPSON & COMPANY, LTD., 181 CLARENCE STREET, SYDNEY.
'TO USE THIS SOM
'THE FACE AND RUB Will
'"eShavino Stick.
'll UP A LATHER ON T
HUSH,USING PLENTY
SB
n
m
k:
§
1
New Reduced Prices:
Holder Top Shaving Stick 27-
Reloads
Williams Shaving Cream.. 2/-
Brighten to-morrow’s shave
—by using Williams Shaving Stick
Williams Holder Top Shaving Stick gives a rich, thick lather
that bulks large on the face. Its wetness penetrates the
oil film on the beard, so that almost instant softening takes
place. Its mild quality leaves the skin, at the end of the
shave, feeling wonderfully softened and soothed.
You will see a decided improvement the first time you shave
with Williams. It is made by shaving-soap specialists. No
wonder it gives a better shave. Buy a stick to-day.
Williams sticks are unusually long lasting and therefore
economical. Men who prefer shaving cream, be sure to
ask for Williams.
Williams
Holder Top Shaving Stick
Distributors: FRAZER & BEST, LIMITED.
Brisbane, Sydney, Melbourne, Adelaide, Perth,
Ask the Man who has used it
WAKEFIELD
La
FARM TRACTOR OIL
Ask all the farmers who once used ordinary oils and then
switched over to AGRICASTROL —they all tell the same
story. They had to contend with any or every kind of lubri-
cation trouble and many other difficulties which do not always
seem to arise from faulty lubrication, but disappear when
“AGRICASTROL” is put into the sump and reaches the
moving parts.
The first noticeable improvement is in the condition of the
lubricant and its lasting power. The consistency of
“AGRICASTROL” acts as a seal between cylinder and piston,
preventing the fuel leaking into the sump.
This provides higher mechanical efficiency and preserves
engine parts. It protects bearings and gears, and, by saving
adjustments, repairs and the very life of the vital parts, it
more than pays for its own cost.
‘Agricastrol’
is recommended for the following British, Continental
and American Tractors:—
BRITISH WALLIS
(Huston, Hornsby, Ltd.)
CASE
CLETRAC
FORDSON
FIAT
MOGUL
PETERBOROUGH
(Farmers’ Co-op. Implement Co.,
Ltd.)
RONALDSOX TIPPETT
(Moffat-Virtue and Co.)
TITAN
TWIN CITY
Dangar, Gedye & Co., Ltd.)
If you cannot get it locally order it direct, mentioning
your usual supplier, from Head Office for Australasia:
C. C. WAKEFIELD & CO., Ltd.
The All-British Firm .
By Royal Warrant to H.M. King George V.,
ATLAS BUILDINGS, 8 SPRING STREET, SYDNEY.
Tel.: 87465-6. Tel - 87465-6
We shall he pleased to answer lubrication queries, and invite correspondence
from tractor users.


1
a
\\v
WOT
\\\\
SK
,-^c
I
I
M\
J.
m
r.v».
mm
m
I
m
7//,
VA
V'j
%
i
ft
I
f
m
4
m
c!ii
m
ASHFIELDS’
pytWICH H
Model 80 Republic
’Bus with tram type
©t body for city me.
Low steps make en-
trance and exit easy.
The VITAL factor!
TEADERSHIP In the transportation field
1 undoubtedly belongs to Republic. Leading
users of commercial transport have been quick to
realise that such power as Republic delivers assures
most miles and most years of profit-earning service.
That’s one reason why Republic trucks are in big
and consistently increasing demand.
There’s a
Republic Truck
for every
haulage need
REPUBLIC
Refiu6/ie
A&enfs
C? -
NEW SOUTH WALES.
Larke, Hoskins & Co., Ltd-
-177 to 185 William Street,
Sydney.
VICTORIA.
Preston Motors Pty., Ltd.,
114-122 Franklin Street,
Melbourne.
QUEENSLAND.
Canada Cycle & Motor
Agency (Q’land), Ltd.,
Creek and Adelaide Streets,
Brisbane.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA.
Rasch Motors, Ltd.,
69 Waymouth Street,
Adelaide.
WESTERN AUSTRALIA.
Republic Truck Sales Co.,
Ltd.,
905 Hay Street, Perth.
NEW ZEALAND.
Inglis Bros. & Co., Ltd.,
Taranaki and Cable Streets,
s_ Wellington.
Factory Distributors: W. A. CROWLE, LTD., Crowle House, Castlereagh Street, SYDNEY, N.S.W.


TWO NEW MODELS
that give a new meaning
to household cleaning
These New Models of the
UNIVERSAL Electric
Vacuum Cleaner are a
revelation in efficiency.
Only just placed on this
market, they are supreme
in every feature that com-
mends a cleaner to the
busy housewife.
You can hardly believe
that a cleaner could do
what the UNIVERSAL
does.
\
uCQ3j
|THE TBAPE MAft* KWCWN tW gVgffV MOMg'~|
m
I LANDERS* FRARY 4 CLARK, NEW BRITAIN, CONN, r
VACUUM CLEANER
This brushless Vacuum Cleaner is fitted with
patented, thread-picking nozzle, which removes
threads and litter from carpets, rugs, floors, etc.
—cleans curtains, drapings, covers, furniture, etc.,
thoroughly.
The UNIVERSAL removes both surface and
embedded dirt —its high-suction efficiency gives a
wider scope to attachments. No troublesome or
insanitary brush to clean—no belts to buy—self-
cleaning fan with broad blades —solid moulded
rubber nozzle bumper prevents scratching of furni-
ture. This better cleaner is easy to operate, and
is a boon at all times.
Obtainable from electricians, stores and hardware
dealers.
We regret that
owing to the
heavy demand
we have not
been able to fill
all orders.
Stocks now in
hand and com-
ing forward will
enable ns to
meet all de-
mands.
Factory Agents for Australia and New Zealand:—
W. G. WATSON & CO., LTD
279 Clarence Street, Sydney. 28 Coromandel Place, Adelaide
29 Hunter Street, Newcastle. 55 Charlotte Street, Brisbane.
200 Queen Street, Melbourne. 933 Hay Street, Perth.
The “Tropic”
A Special Peapes* Importation
for Summer days on the land.
This English Felt is of the highest quality, to
ensure uncommonly long service under the most
trying conditions of constant wear.
It is of a favun shade on tuhich dust cannot be
detected, and has a very high croum —for coolness —
a brim 4i in. wide with unbound, curled edge,
and a 1| in. band with bow at side
PEAPES PAY POSTAGE.
58/6
Please state size.
PEAPES & CO., LTD.,
Men’s and Boys’ Outfitters,
GEORGE STREET (opp. Hunter Street) SYDNEY.
Ogden's “ St. Bruno ”
The Standard Dark Flake Tobacco
*1- per 4 os. tin, 8/- per B ox. tin, 16/- per ft
Obtainable only at Peapes'.
TRY SUMMER FALLOWING!
m m
" • v
m
Wmm
V
■ '
rj
gpfgfiss
- -
a
rt
:
.
: ■- i
'> >v
(I
Mm* MMygKjij
*
K
ft ite; -■
ill
.
WWffiSi
■
The Implement for
this work is
The
Turns very hard soil.
Copes with difficult weed growths.
Deals with a large acreage.
Tractor Levers if desired.
ASK FOR CATALOGUE.
a V, McKAY PTY., LTD.
SUNSHINE. HARVESTER WORKS. SUNSHINE.
27-39 George Street West, SYDNEY.
Cor. Murray and King Streets, PERTH.
105 North Terrace, ADELAIDE.
664 Bourke Street West, MELBOURNE.
H. V. McKay (Queensland), Ltd., Stanley Street, SOUTH BRISBANE.
A. G. Webster & Sons, Ltd., Hobart, Launceston, Devonport, Burnie.


FOR
ARCHITECTS. ARTISTS, DESIGNERS,
DRAUGHTSMEN & OFFICE USE
BRITISH
ADE
Perfection
PINK RUBBER.
Amusements.
j§ YDNE Y’S CHIEF THEATRES.
J. C. WILLIAMSON, LTD., present
HER MAJESTY’S: ROSE MARIE.
CRITERION: COBRA.
ROYAL: YEOMEN OF THE GUARD.
PALACE: WHITE CARGO.
GRAND OPERA HOUSE: ALADDIN.
SIDNEY’S BEST SHOWS.
Direction Sir Benjamin Fuller & Mr. John Fuller.
ST. JAMES: JACK & THE BEANSTALK
FULLERS’ THEATRE:
FULLERS’ VAUDEVILLE.
PICKARDS’ TIVOLI THEATRES.
Lessees: Harry Rickards’ Tivoli Theatres, Ltd.
MELBOURNE and SYDNEY.
TWICE EVERY DAY—2.3O and 8.
CELEBRITY VAUDEVILLE.
The World’s Best.
J C. WILLIAMSON, LTD.,
w * MELBOURNE ATTRACTIONS.
HIS MAJESTY’S:
THE COUSIN FROM NOWHERE.
KING’S THEATRE:
THE NAUGHTY WIFE.
-J- HE AIRE ROYAL, 3IELBOURNE.
Proprietors .... J. C. Williamson, Ltd.
Direction Ada Reeve.
EVERY EVENING AT 8.
ADA REEVE, with JACK MORRISON, in
PINS AND NEEDLES.
“A Revue with points.”
DRINCESS THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
The Theatre Beautiful.
Sir BENJAMIN FULLER and JOHN FULLER
present
PUSS IN BOOTS,
London’s Greatest Fairy Pantomime.
Every Evening. Matinees Daily.
Plan at Glen’s.
Reserved Seats 7/- plus tax. Matinees 5/- plus tax.
Children half-price to all parts.
A TH E N EU M THE ATR E,
** MELBOURNE.
Proprietor: Frank Talbot Pty., Ltd.
Lessee: E. J. Carroll.
SHORT FAREWELL SEASON OF
THE SPARKLING THREE-ACT COMEDY,
THE BEST PEOPLE.
Direction E. J. Carroll.
‘‘THE GHOST TRAIN” IS COMING.
|V|AJESTIC THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
JOHN HARRON and DOROTHY DEVORE in
THE GILDED HIGHWAY.
Romance of Sudden Wealth.
Box Plan at Allan’s & Theatre. ’Phone 7076 & 7790.
(VIEW BIJOU THEATRE, MELBOURNE
Twice Daily, 2.30 and 8.
GEORGE WALLACE REVUE CO.
Popular Prices. Plan Cen. 3251.
HOYT’S D E LUXE THEATRE,
1 MELBOURNE.
REX BEACH’S
THE BARRIER,
Featuring Norman Kerry, Lionel Barrymore and
Marceline Day.
ALSO
COLLEEN MOORE in
IT MUST BE LOVE.
Prices as usual.
Legal Notice.
PUBLIC NOTICE.
JF any person knows the whereabouts or is
able to give any information concerning
the movements from June, 1921, of JAMES
WILLIAM REGAN, formerly of Port
r f e ! * n of South Australia,
Solicitor, and at the date above mentioned
believed to have been residing in Melbourne,
at Carlyon’s Hotel, such person is requested
to communicate at once with
KELLY, HAGUE & TRAVERS,
Solicitors.
Insurance Chambers,
Pirie Street, Adelaide,
South Australia.
Missing Friends.
W IL J; STANLEY WILLIAM NOBLE, formerly o:
Brisbane, Queensland, or any person knowing hi:
whereabouts, please communicate with HAWTHORI
AND LIGHTOLLER, Solicitors, of 303 Queen Street
Brisbane, Queensland.
T IIE , next-of-kin of GEORGE ALEXANDER, late of
East Sydney, or any person acquainted with
their whereabouts are requested to communicate with
L. J. PAYNE, Public Trustee, Sydney. Claimants
should state relationship claimed and date and place
of birth of deceased.
WINTON”
Write for List of Crepe
Rubber-soled Boots.
The"WINTON”
IMPROVED
STOCK SADDLE.
DESIGNED TO INCREASE
THE COMFORT AND
SECURITY OF THE RIDER
PRICE - - - - £l6/10/-
Fitted with Folded Girth, Bevelled
Leathers, and Solid Nickel Stirrups
Freight paid for cash with order to
any N.S.W. Railway Station.
Write for our catalogue, describing
this and many other favorite saddles.
Ring Head Bridle, with lin. Reins
and Ring Bit 19/0
Shaped Felt Saddlecloth .... 8/0
Bush Spurs with Jin. n.p. Steel
Sides, with Straps 11/0
Solid Nickel Spurs 7/0
Saddle Pouch 15/-
iVALTHERg STEVENSON, LTD.
395 George Street,
Sydney.
Hardtmuths
COPYING PENCIL
Also tn colours <
Violet, Black, Red, Blue, Green,Yellow and Carmine
m
CHRISTOPHER JOHNSON & CO.,
FLAG BRAND CUTLERY.
Sheffield,
England.
Registered Trade-mark.
BRITISH
SCISSORS of
HIGH QUALITY.
SOLID STEEL. A LIFETIME’S WEAK.
No. 1369.
Representatives :
NORMAN BAKER & LONGTUTRST, LTD..
Sydney, Melbourne, and Wellington, N.Z.
FAIRBANKS SCALES
m
MEW
//
Fairbanks Motor
Truck Scale
THE peculiar conditions
surrounding motor truck
weighing demand a
special scale construction.
From 70% to 95% of the load
is carried on the rear axle,
consequently the weight is
not evenly distributed on the
four scale bearings. The
Fairbanks Motor Truck Scale
is designed to withstand the
Sounding and jarring of
eavily loaded motor trucks
and to weigh them with con-
tinuous accuracy.
Representative for Australia:
R. W. WINNING,
380 Sussex Street, Sydney; £35 Queen Street, Melbourne-
THE FAIRBANKS C0.,4168r00me St.,New York, U.S.A.
ACCURATE DEPENDABLE
sdf
Models:
lk/hOh.V; 20/60h.p.,
SO/90h.p. and 3-litre.
Fitted with Four-wheel Brakes.
Authorised Dealers:
WILLIAMS BROS., Ltd.,
255-259 Elizabeth Street,
SYDNEY.
British Cars for i
British People •
The new Sunbeam three-litre sporting
car is the finest ever produced. It
embodies all the experience in engine
design and chassis construction which
has Sunbeam cars supreme in the
racing world. Its body work is typical
of Sunbeam easy luxury and fine
appearance, and it comes as a worthy
addition to the fine range of touring
models which are already famous for
their inimitable performance and re-
liability.
THE SUPREME
Sunbeam
Further particulars are available from
THE SUNBEAM MOTOR CAR CO. LTD.,
Export Department, 12 Princes Street,
Hanover Square, London, W.l.
Cable Address: “Supermoco, London.”
Works, Wolverhampton.
Answers to Correspondents.
No notice (except of a hostile character') will be
taken of communications insufficiently stamped.
Name and address must appear on the MSS. No
liability is undertaken re contributions volun-
tarily submitted; and no MS. will be returned
unless stamps accompany.
A.T.H.: Good enough for a second reading,
but failed to stay the full distance V.G.W.: Such
reticences as “the town of ” are dashed un-
necessary .... Dora G.: A speck of gold in a ton of
mullock.... Pesca: It’s breathless as it stands; but
the yarn’s good. See if you can’t improve the telling.
. ...G.8.D.: “Some months had passed wearily.’
We thought it was years by the time we reached
page 16. .. .C.J.8.W.: The sudden corpse at the end
was a surprise, but seemed unnecessary... .P.M.S.:
The verse starting “All hale, thou golden orbe of
mourn, That smacks the black night in the eye”
runs down a steep abyss into nothingness.-... Jim S.:
Tou dined at the girl’s house and then wrote those
verses about her. Indigestion, perhaps. .. .G.P.S.: It
won’t have a chance to “look well in print”....
Pat: Your charming immigration verse is, as immi-
gration verse should be, intensely practical:—
Bet us try first for British, men of our own race
IVho settled Australia though at a slow pace;
We can take all their surplus to go on the land
Which would make trade and commerce quite quick
to expand.
Then after the British, Italians and Serbs
And Spaniards, who also live largely on herbs;
Rumanians, Bulgarians and Greeks we would wish
Which last would well keep us in the best of fish.
....V.G.W’.: It has material for a good yarn; but
the telling leaves it formless.;. .Jean B.: Long,
breathless lines jumbled themselves ; but the imagery
is good. Try again. ...G.D.: Tame old Christinas
tale. .. .Evelyn M.: Amende little song. . . .Anon: “A
Wish” and “A Memory” are both too slight... .R.L.:
The sonnet moves heavily to a dimly religious con-
clusion. .. .John O.: Chopped out with a meat-axe.
... .Peter B.: Your recording angel is a dull person.
. ...M.L.P.: The yarn is a mere mass of mathe-
matical detail Betty W.: Delicately done ; but
weaknesses will creep into this free verse. . . .Marquita:
The tragedy of the kitten nearly broke our heart. .. .
Margaret A.: Polish them D.8.M.: This star
glimmer from your “Tropical Evening” shines here:
.... Love of beauty returns ;
Where Strife reigned, Philosophers discuss Art.
Loneliness
W rites home, telling how much he earns,
Telling of this and that and won’t she come out?
it is so lovely on these peaceful nights,
The daily heat and strife so far away;
All is again worth while.
....Alexander IT.: Not bad; yet not quite up to
standard Tiptap: Interested to hear that G. B.
Shaw “the Nobel Prize. .. .declined with neither
groans or sighs”.... Gus R.: The lover who “sits
upon the rustic stile” is too exotic for The B
S.R.T.:—
“The dawn is red”.... “Green are the trees”
“Blue is the sky”....“The gentle breeze”....
Much overworked are things like these. .. .L.F.: No.
.. . .Doug W.: “Why, oh why, did we have to part?”
Don’t know ; only know that these why-why partings
grow monotonous. .. .W.L.T.: Oidy the recentness of
the tragedy prevents the verse being published as a
humorous example.... Chum D. W.: “His engine—
unfortunately, though through no fault of his own—
ran over a man” implies that he regarded running
over lesser animals as a sport... .W.D.8.: Your
verses about the fading abo. have faded out... .
A. 8.8.: “Enjoy” is not a wonderfully good rhyme
for “j0v”.... Cam D.: The “Converted Punter”
introduces a unique character: —
He longed to leave his life of sin.
But how to live? How make his tin?
For Heav’n’s guidance prayeth he,
And his reward is given free
One week more he ’sues the punter’s trade,
Then joins the Church, his fortune made.
By backing horses on the nod
On inspirations sent from God.
.... Woodki: What’s the “myriad maze” ?... . 1.G.:
“Along the Road” has a limp... .T.8.-W.: There’s one
line that’s been left out in a game of musical chairs.
Try to fix it; it’s worth while. . . .Q. Cumber: Dawn
doesn’t “rouse the stars”.... S.T.R.: “I ardently
would adumbrate the anthropological fact” is an
amazing verse line G.L.P.: No; it is a factory
conclusion, rather than a satisfactory one... .-E.E.:
The path you travel is too rocky Roy S.: ’Tis a
dull chronicle.... A.H.: The garden is weedy....
Gol d. T.: Verses may suit elsewhere; yarn still
doubtful. .. .S.E.M.: Weak and formless. Get some-
thing to say and some rhymes to say it with....
M.R.C.: The last line kills one of them. “Moons”
is obviously pushed in to make the rhyme.... C.R.C.:
The Indian priests and the dagger make it no more
a story than would be the description of the funeral
of Maggie Smith, with Bill Jones cutting his throat
over the coffin as a finale W.M.F.: The big open
spaces are big and open and spacious. We had
suspected it....T1.G.: Look up a few points on
rhythm and scansion. . . .Q.8.M.: Pretty good ; pretty
pretty. .. .A.C.T.: Nice little sob story; not in our
line, though well told J.P.Q.: These yarns about
bargains with Satan are the very devil. And yours
is 6000 words long, which is Hell thrown in... .
John H. L.: Thanks, same to you. But there isn’t
much meat in the enclosure.... Somi n: Merely the
drippings from an encvelopcedia... .E.M.F.: Also
ran, but not badly....C., Jun.: At least a score
older. .. .Arthur R. : Fair story, tame conclusion.
... .T.C.: Said many times and much more interest-
ingly... .John O’H.: Make a better sermon than a
sonnet —quite correct, and thoroughly dull. . . . L.L. :
Man trite... .Fan: Sounds pretty; but too many
words are just thrown in to make the jingle.
TO ARTISTIC (AND INARTISTIC)
CORRESPONDENTS.
J.A.: Instead of being a querulous, irascible old
joker, your professor looks like a waggish dancing-
teacher. .. .N.F.: We read the Riot Act over your
crowd of shabby little men.... Jay Bee: The office
chaplain wouldn’t pass it. .. .H.S.: Pose of the vener-
able golfer reminds us of Moses in the act of strik-
ing the rock... .Walgee: Sydney block-boys’ new-
uniform not of wide enough interest... .W.A.H.: So
drink was his downfall; yours is careless penmanship.
C.S.O.: Your motor-hog is nothing more than
a tender suckling. .. .E.G.: Did the inkwell run
dry, or hadn’t you the heart to complete the job?
F.J.K.: Smudgy study, and the subject is hope-
less, anyway.
“Quiz”: Tlie Sprightly, a Melbourne
harbor tug, is having a jubilee. Built of
iron, at Johnson’s Tyne Foundry on the
Yarra half a century ago, she towed the
You Yangs and the Barrabool, pioneer
steamers of the old Howard Smith line, up
the river on their first arrival, the depth of
water there being then about 12ft.


1- Chassis,
£325.
TJ-Ton Chassis,
£445.
2- Chassis,
£485.
d
Trucks That Do The Work
When men and equipment are
put to the test, it is power,
strength and reliability that
count.
These are the very qualities
most desirable in commercial
hauling for any business.
Give Graham Brothers Trucks
or Buses hard jobs that take
unyielding endurance and they
do the work • They d° it at
low cost throughout their long
lives.
Qraham Brothers Trucks, with Dodge
Brothers l-Ton Commercial Cars,
meet 91°\ Q of all hauling requirements
Waymouth Motor Co., Ltd.,
42-48 Waymouth Street,
Adelaide.
Winterbottom Motor Co., Ltd.,
,199 St. George’s Terrace,
Perth.
Austral Motors, Ltd.,
Brisbane and Townsville.
Standardised Motors, Ltd.,
256 Castlereagh Street,
Sydney.
Canada Cycle & Motor Co. (Victoria) Pty., Ltd.,
352-58 Latrobe Street,
Melbourne.
Graham Brothers
Trucks
Built by Truck Division of Dodge Brothers, Inc.
SOLD BY DODGE BROTHERS
DEALERS EVERYWHERE
B. 20/l/’27.


Get the Skins
That is the first necessity. But the last essential is
not least. It is most important with your
RABBIT, FOX, KANGAROO and all other
skins. Get top values for them.
SEND YOUR CONSIGNMENTS TO
WINCKCOMBE,CARSON
LTD.
Salesmen,
SYDNEY OR BRISBANE.
They are live, reliable selling agents, and sell on
commission only. They make it their sole business
to secure top market prices for all clients.
[3
AEL AUSTRALIANS visiting London
should read the British Australian
and New Zealander, Gd. weekly—an illus-
trated paper containing mail and cable news
from Australia and news of Australians in
Europe and at home. Australians are cordi-
ally invited to visit the British Australian
and New Zealander Reading-room at the
Offices, 414-17 Australia House, Strand,
London, WC.2, where they can see the home
papers, meet their friends, use the telephone
and obtain information without charge.
Copies of the paper and general information
can be obtained at the Australian Advertis-
ing Agency, Ltd., 350 George Street, Sydney;
or 434 Collins Street, Melbourne.
Monarch
A ROYAL
SMOKE
actual size
The cigar for
particular
smokers.
All Hotels and
Tobacconists.
6d. each
10 cigars, 6/«
25, 12/6
50, 23/9
100, 46/-
Post paid to auj
address.
Sampler Box,
containing two
cigars, 1/- post
free.
CRAIG & AITKEN,
6548 George Street
Sydney,
Distributors for
Club Reil
Cigar
Factory.
WANT TO MAKE
MONEY ?
“The ‘Wild Cat’
Monthly,”
published on the first Saturday of
every month, will help you in your
dealings with shares.
Hundreds of thousands of pounds
are lost annually in Wild Cat com-
panies. “The ‘Wild Cat’ Monthly”
will help you to identify them.
I
As valuable for the Smallest
Investor as for the Largest. In fact,
the small investor needs it most.
Published by “The Bulletin,” 2/-
per single copy; 22/6 per annum.
Ericsson Telephone Mfg. Co.
(Formerly James Paton & Co.)
Sole Importers of the Famous Ericsson Telephone and Switchboard
Apparatus, for Magneto, Common Battery and Automatic Working.
WIRELESS APPARATUS,
19 YORK STREET, SYDNEY; 509 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE.
Visitors to Brisbane! Book up at the
HOTEL CECIL
(FIRST CLASS)
Reasonable Tariff—Good Position.
Cooling in Summer j
—Reliable Always
KRUSE’S .
mar BlB
Ortie Celebrated
Stomack Medicine
A cooling and sooihing
Aperient, containing no
harmful drugs.
Mothers can gi\>e it to
Infants \tfidi perfect safety.
ffn
FLUDMACWESIA
Manufactured and
bottled under tbe
strictest hygienic
conditions.
‘Bottled in three
sizes.
DON’T TAKE CHANCES —Get &e genuine KRUSE’S, Ttfitk 4ie
blue Wrapper and our name, Felton, Grimwade & Co. Ptp. Ltd.,
on tke label.
cOJS o
across/
J
PANADA—that wonderland teeming with
romance and adventure—opens unknown
beauties to those who would escape from the
hustle and bustle of life in a crowded city.
The glories, splendour and majesty of the Canadian
Rockies form an effective background for the shining
lakes and other beauty spots that lie at their feet—and
far away from all the worries and cares you can rest for
awhile in a cosy, jolly bungalow camp—or in a luxuri-
ous hotel.
The Canadian Pacific Railway
system of transportation is the most up-to-date and modern
railway system in the world. The equipment is designed for
the greatest comfort, while the service of all employees is
unequalled.
Plan ahead—book your accommodation for trains, hotels and steam-
ships prior to your departure. Through tickets to England and the
Continent of Europe are obtainable in connection with the Canadian-
Australasian Royal Mail Line to Vancouver, and the Canadian Pacific
Steamship services across the Atlantic. The New Quadruple-screw
Motor Ship ‘‘Aorangi’ (23,000 tons displacement) in connection with
the favorite s.s. “Niagara” afford an unrivalled service to and from
Vancouver, B.C.
for lull information apply, any office of the Union S.S Co., of N.Z., any
Tourist Booking Agency, or J. Sclater, Representative, Canadian Pacific Railway
Co., Union House, 2 47 George Street, Sydney.
a
G
Business, Robbery, etc.
“N.K.C.” : A group of 16 unusual immi-
grants was lately welcomed tp Bendigo. They
were Swiss girls, bound for the Bendigo
woollen-mills, each an expert in her own
branch of weaving. Only one was married,
her husband being the foreman ; the rest, as
one mentioned shyly through the interpreter,
were “quite unattached.” All the newcomers
are in the twenties or thereabouts, a bloom-
;ng and alert-looking bevy.
* * * *
“Sturt”: Denmark, the earliest-founded
irrigation settlement on the Murray, gets its
through railway from Adelaide completed at
the end of this month. The route is by the
Melbourne line to Murray Bridge and Tailem
Bend, thence nearly due north. The line has
till now stopped at Faringa, on the south
side of the Murray, which, however, has now
been bridged, (It is the only bridge be-
tween the aforesaid one on the Adelaide-
Melbourne line and Swan Hill away up in
Vie.) An Adelaide-Renmark night express,
both ways, is promised.
* * * *
“Forward One” : During 1925 new shops
to the number of 1304 were registered in
Victoria, making a total of 34,692. In-
creases : Bread, confectionery, pastry, boots
(including repair shops), butchers, cycle
and motor mechanics, fuel and fodder, hair-
dressers and tobacconists. Largest decreases:
Fancy goods, grocers and drapers, of which
145 disappeared in the metropolis. The
figures for 1926 ought to be interesting, the
growth of the big department stores having
wiped out many suburban counters.
* * * *
“C.Q.”: The railway-engine is a proved
offender in the matter of bush fires, and the
puffing-billies that run along the little branch
lines to the sawmills are the worst. Powell-
town (Vic.) residents therefore turned out
with interest the other day to see a test of
the Cheney spark-r.ullifier. It proved a
striking success. The belching volcano that
ordinarily burns holes in the passengers’
clothing and covers them with soot was
subdued. The nullifier acts as a sort of
baffle-plate, and the large lumps of charcoal
hitting it are broken into harmless frag-
ments. It is stated to improve the draught
instead of reducing it; but I can’t swear
to that.
* * * *
“Bis”: Immense sums of money and much
labor have been spent on the rabbit-proof
fence erected to keep the pest from entering
western Bananaland and from the N.T. Un-
repaired damage in many places extends for
miles, and in some sections no sign of a
fence is seen ; it is covered with sand and
overgrown with spinifex. No attempt is ever
made to repair the damage and keep faith
with the payers of the tax originally levied
for its erection and upkeep. A bad section
runs from tlie S.A. to N.S.W. and Queens-
DANGEROUS GROUND.
ISSACS : “Gome avay from der vindow,
REPECCA. You might see something you
might vant!”
land border almost to Camooweal. At one
place is a gate near a notice warning tra-
vellers of dire penalties if they leave it open.
On either side no sign of a fence is visible
except an occasional post that marks the
original alignment.
* * * *
“Carisbrook, Jun.” : Australia seems to be
always ready and willing to give Eng-
land preferential tarilf, but come nearer home
and what do we find? Papua and the Man-
dated Territories, which are under the juris-
diction of the Commonwealth, are open gates
to America. The recent price-lists issued
by the Expropriation Board (paid by the
Commonwealth) for commodities sold at the
Government store are practically filled with
American goods. Tinned meats of well-
known Yankee brands, sliced bacon, camp-
pies and such like predominate. In Queens-
land the cattleman can consider himself
lucky if he obtains 20s. per 1001 b. for his
beef; the Yank gets 40s. per 1001 b. in
Chicago—nearly as far from New York as
Babaul is from Cairns. Yet Uncle can still
beat Australian meats to the New Guinea
market. There’s something radically wrong
somewhere.
* * * *
“N.K.C.” : During the school vacations I
earn a crust by managing a railway book-
stall, and am already becoming adept at
sizing up approaching customers and guess-
ing what paper they require—the Age, The
Bulletin, social journals, sporting sheets
and what not. The regular reader scans
the date before handing over his money.
He does not trust bookstalls. The riskier
class of papers I mainly sell to flappers,
usually with a daily to slip them in. There
is no great demand for books except the
cheap shilling paper-covered editions of such
authors as Nat Gould and Ethel Dell. This
week I tried an experiment in psychology.
We had some “Women’s Knowledge” books
left on our hands at the shop, full of harm-
less recipes, etc., with nothing ambiguous
about them except the title. I took some
up to the stall and placed one (at a time)
in the centre of the row of doubtful novels.
Flanked by the “Woman’s Sin” and “Flighty
Florrie” it immediately took on an intriguing
aspect. I sold out by the end of the week.
What fat commercials and fishy-eyed hobble-
dehoys thought of their purchases I am
never likely to learn. But such is salesman-
ship.


Madame Elsa Stralia —
The World’s Famous Dramatic
m
/■'
ie
v
m
Madame
Elsa Stralia,
a Charming user of Rexona Soap.
Soprano-Praises
Rexona Soap
“I would never think of using anything but Rexona
Soap as a shampoo for my hair and I find it par excel-
lence for the skin. lam a good Australian, and I like
a good Australian Soap, and think there is no soap in
the world better than Rexona Soap.”
(Sgd.) ELSA STRALIA.
Why is Rexona Soap Superior
to all others for
the Skin and Hair?
Because Rexona Soap is medicated with Rexona itself, which
gives it unique qualities which no other soap possesses.
Rexona Soap is the purest of the pure and when medicated with
Rexona, as it is, it is a super-soap for toilet use. Infants, with their
tender skin, must have a particularly pure soap, one that soothes and
does not irritate, one that heals and removes chafing; and Rexona Soap
is just the Soap for Babies and Rexona Babies are known all over
Australia as “Australia’s most beautiful Babies.
Australia’s sun is severe on the skin—the winds are likewise, and
people who care for themselves know that there is nothing for the toilet
so important as a pure Medicated Soap that keeps their skin in perfect
condition. The beautiful complexions of the Rexona Girls are world-
famous, for Rexona Soap keeps their skin in the pink of condition and
if there is any tendency to pimples or other defects, Rexona Soap
quickly overcomes them.
In nearly every home in Australia, Rexona, the Rapid Healer, is
the Ointment that is always on hand, kept in every household to over-
come injuries to the skin, Eczema, Sores and all skin defects, and Rexona
Soap, being freely medicated with Rexona itself, is a great article
which should be used by every man, woman and child in Australia who
wish to keep their skin and hair in perfect condition.
;TTP",
m
7T"J-
-m
m
<s-
-
TP'/,
m/
tv//
m
W-n.
W:
C\fc-=
b
VAS
s* 4
ft/#.
f\V>
9vJ^ x
V;<k : p,
m/m
Wh/m
"iii.
nnn
''//iigSi
Jvexena
Soap
o&r Health
and Reauty
A beautiful study of
Madame ELSA
STRALIA, as she ap-
peared iu the prologue
to the “White Sister”
at the Crystal Palace,
Sydney.
f m
ilf 'lk
m,
H.
■;:i
11
I ■:
1
mmk:
;
B
m
■ 1
■
m
I
m
i
'


fiiticura
'■'SOAP
(uticuraSoap
MEDICINAL&TOILET
Best For The Skin
Because it cleanses, invigor-
ates and preserves the skin,
scalp and hair. Used daily,
assisted by Cuticura Ointment
when required, it prevents
pore-clogging, pimples, black-
heads, and other annoying
irritations.
Soap ls.,Talcum.ls.3d., Ointment Is. and
2s. For sample Soap and Ointment ad-
dress: **R.Towns & Co.. Sydney, N.S.W.”
DBS“ Cuticura Shaving Stick Is. 6d.
Don’t forget to ask your dealer for
THE SUPER
CHALLENGER
The very much better Golf Ball.
Sole Wholesale Distributors:
NORMAjM L. BURNELL & CO. (N.S.W.), Ltd.
Sydney, Melbourne, Adelaide, Brisbane, Perth. [3
RUPTURE.
A FREE TRIAL.
If iyou are troubled with the complaint, write us and
we will send you our catalogue, fully describing our
PATENT AIR CUSHION APPLIANCE.
This appliance does away with all cumbersome
springs, giving a feeling of ease and comfort from the
first day s use. It is the most scientific appliance yet
invented for this complaint. It will hold a rupture
firmly.and comfortably under all conditions.
To prove what we state
WE OFFER TO SEND IT TO YOU
ON A FREE TRIAL.
If it is no 6 satisfactory we do not expect you to keep
it. and the trial costs you nothing. It is suitable for
men, women and children, and the price is within
thereach of all.
ILLUSTRATED CATALOGUE
posted free anywhere.
THE WINSLOW CO.
104 Queen Street, Melbourne, Vic.
Macmillan’s
NEW BOOKS.
The prices advertised are those at which the
books are published in London. Prices outside
the British Isles must be fixed by the importing
bookseller.
Natural Man: A Record from
Borneo. By CHARLES HOSE,
Hon. Sc.D. With illustrations
and Map. 30s. net.
The Westminster Gazette: “The most com-
plete and instructive study we have jet had
of the people of Borneo and their way of life.”
A Short History of Marriage. By
EDWARD WESTERMARCK,
Ph.D., author of “Ritdal and
Belief in Morocco,” etc. 10s. 6d.
net.
The New Statesman : “Those who had neither
the leisure nor the courage to face the three
volumes of Dr. Westermarck’s monumental
‘History of Human Marriage,’ should welcome
this shorter monograph.”
DOMINIONS EDITION.
Debits and Credits,
BY
RUDYARD KIPLING.
Also Uniform Edition, 7s. 6d. net.
Pocket Edition, Cloth, 6s. net.
Leather, 7s. 6d. net.
Reality: A New Correlation of
Science and Religion.
By CANON BURNETT HILLMAN
STREETER. Bs. 6d. net. A plain
and popular answer to the ques-
tion “Are Science and Religion
Antagonistic?”
Holism and Evolution. By General
the Right Hon. J. C. SMUTS.
18s. net.
The Observer: “An important contribution
to the new world-outlook that is preparing.”
To bo Obtained from ail
Bookseliers.
MACMILLAN & CO. LTD.
MELBOURNE & LONDON, W.C.2
QN
BANK
THE QUEENSLAND NATIONAL BANK, LIMITED.
Incorporated under the Companies Act 1863. Established 1872.
Directors —A. C. Luva, Esq., Chairman; Jarrles Love, Esq.; W. H. Hart, Esq.;
M. J. Ryan, Esq. ; D. W. Macdonald, Esq.
General Manager —M. G. HAYMEN.
HEAD OFFICE . . . . . . BRISBANE
With offices at London, Melbourne, Svdney and 91 branches in Queensland and
Northern Rivers, N. S. Wales, also representation through the leading Banking
Institutions covering Australasia and the World, this Bank offers the fullest facili-
ties for the transaction of all general banking business.
fsd
Cream
POLISHES—PRESERVES—PREVENTS CRACKS
BOSTOCK’S Shoe Creams are made in all
principal shades, and especially noted for the
New Shade of Bois-de-Rose, Putty, Sunburn
and Oak,
Price 6 d. psr tube* Obtainable Everywhere .
® 3i4
IVORY-
TIPPED
or PLAIN
< De > cßeszke
—of course
k
tm
Price: 10 for ninepence
Quality: De Reszke
In these few words is summed up the case for the
cigarette that has created a record demand in record
time. People have only to hear of the existence
of the new De Reszke Virginias to want to try
them. And the verdict of their palate fully
justifies their faith.
Every cigarette that bears the name DE RESZKE
must needs be the very best in its class ; otherwise
the “ goodwill ” value of the name—at present
beyond compute—would be endangered. That is
your guarantee that the new De Reszke Virginias
will always preserve their high quality.
De Reszke
(popularly pronounced ,<C DE RES-KEY ”
Virginias
TWENTY FOR ONE AND SIX
In 10’s, 20’s, 50’s and 100’s
MILLHOFF & CO. LTD., 86, PICCADILLY, LONDON, W.l
Agents for N. S. Wales: DALGETY & COMPANY LTD.
“Geoloin”: The most expressive trading
name I ever saw was over business premises
at Ballarat. Simply: “Adam Strong, Boot-
maker.”
“Sturt”: Late entry for the Pernicketty
Stakes. A firm I know is registered as
“Jones & Brown, Ltd.” One of the
partners lately endorsed a document "Jones
and Brown, Ltd.” It was turown out, by
a Government department, as incorrectly
signed!
Recently dead, “Polly Longstockings,
daughter of Tom Sullivan, the notorious
Maungatipu (M.L.) bushranger, who escaped
the rope by turning Queen’s evidence. Sul-
livan swore to his dying day that he was
innocent of murder, and “Polly” certainly
believed it.
W. R. Barstow, who has just been pro-
moted from Sergeant-at-Arms to Clerk-
Assistant of Vic. Assembly, began as a tele-
graph messenger. For a while he was a kind
of orderly to Duncan Gillies when he was
Premier. Desiring to get on to the Parlia-
mentary staff, he took a chance as door-
keeper and climbed up.
Adin Parsons, who at S 4 is N.S.W. s
oldest native-born Methodist shepherd, and
who still preaches when he is needed, has
a versatile brain. He was superannuated
owing to chronic throat trouble as long ago
as 1896, and has since supplemented his
pension by practising as an architect, and
he has patented several inventions.
“Clerk” : Who says we don’t get publicity
overseas? Under the heading of “Lonely
Australia —the Land of the Kangaroo,” the
following appears in an advt. in a recent
issue of a Yankee monthly with a circula-
tion of 167,000: —
A wise and cautious friend in Sidney [sic], Aus-
tralia, over 10,000 miles away, sends his sayings to
the Farmers’ Deposit Savings Bank of Pittsburg
to be certain of the safety of his money.
Lionel Hill, Premier of S.A., has taken
a turn at speaking in the “Labor ring” used
for Botanic Park oratory on Sunday after-
noons. He received the usual barracking,
and for a while stood up to it well, reply-
ing to one insult with “You should not call
a better man than yourself a liar—especi-
ally a man weighing 15 stone.” But after
that he felt for his pocket-handkerchief and
almost wept into it over the ingratitude of
the world.
“Muggins, Jun.”: Australian Boy Scouts
who went to England in 1924 will remember
James Marr —nearly all went out of their
way to meet him. He was the Scotch boy
chosen by Sliackleton from amongst a few
thousand of the bare-knee brigade to accom-
pany him on the famous Antarctic expedi-
tion. Marr has just gained the degrees of
M.A. and B.Sc., and has been appointed zoolo-
gist on the Discovery for a scientific survey
trip to the Antarctic.
“L. 1.”: The country listener is going to
be better off in Victoria than in any
other State. Bendigo is shortly to have
a relay station which will pick up the
canned music disseminated from Melbourne,
and after strengthening it will send it forth
again. Later on, other centres will be
served. One advantage of this system is that
the cheap crystal set will be as useful to
the owner as the five-valve expensiveness
so far as the Melbourne programmes are con-
cerned.
A very old and grey Parliamentarian, but
one possessed of sufficient optimism to ex-
press the hope that he “may go to Heaven
from Brisbane,” is James Cowlishaw, who
for 43 years sat in, Queensland’s Plush
Chamber and would doubtless be there
yet if it hadn’t been abolished. He is 92,
was born in Sydney, remembers seeing the
first sod of the first • railway-line in this
continent turned, and was there when the
first lines of both Victoria and Queensland
were opened for traffic. In the latter years
of his working life he was managing director
of Brisbane Telegraph.
It is ages since the R.C. Church was the
principal patron of the arts, the aesthetic
foster-mother of such painters as Michel-
angelo, and such musical composers as
Palestrina and Mozart; but it continues
to encourage its priests to develop secular
talents. Young Eric O’Brien, who gradu-
ated at the Cardinal’s College at Manly
and who wrote a “Life of Father Therry,”
has composed a Mass which was performed
successfully at Christmas in a Sydney
church; and another young Manly cleric,
Ellis Ilerlihy, the son of a Sydney school-
master, is directing liturgical concerts, a
novelty in the Australian musical world.
“Centurion”: Australian civil aviation is
not much advertised, but it is becoming more
firmly established every day. “Quantas” is
now one of the regular institutions of
Queensland, and the same can be said for
W.A. Airways, Ltd., which has just an-
nounced an extension. Extra services and
reduction of fares and freights will be the
policy for the New Year, tins having been
justified by the strong support received from
Government and public. Mails, passengers
and freights have increased out of all know-
ledge, and big future extensions are in sight.
What a godsend the ’plane is, and will be,
to out-back Australians can only be realised
by those who have lived out back.
“Werrimee”: Though the drover gets a
healthier bulge in his pocket now than he
used to, lie rides the same long day on the
long trail as he always did. The problem
has been tackled, and has busied many
minds, but the creaking saddle has not borne
the genius that could shorten the drover’s
working day. Every day, including Sunday,
is practically two working days, measured
on the eight-hour principle, and leaders of the
"work less” movement want to know how to
bring the business into line. If a man camped
24 hours he would have to ride 24 miles to
reach the next camp, and then start to
work again. If three shifts of men were
put on to make an eight-hour day of droving,
the two resting shifts would have to travel
12 miles a day to keep up with their job
and their dinner. They could do it in less
time and get more rest, but 18 men in place
of six would cripple droving on the far
tracks. If the mob travelled only eight
hours a day they would still have to be
watched through the other 16 hours, and if
they could be yarded every night and left
unwatched they would smash half the yards
and get away.


Shipping-
BRISBANE, via BYRON BAY
Through Tickets to Brisbane issued.
S.S. ORARA—Every Saturday evening; passengers
due Brisbane Monday afternoon.
S.S. WOLLONGBAR —Every Tuesday evening;
passengers due Brisbane Thursday afternoon.
Both vessels fitted with Wireless Receiving Sets.
BRISBANE:
FARES.—
Steamer and Motor throughout, Single, £3/15/-
Steamer and Motor throughout, Return, &T
Steamer and First-class Rail, Single,
Steamer and Second-class Rail, Single, £3/3/o
NORTH COAST S. N. CO., LTD.,
Passengers’ Booking Office:
TOURIST BUREAU, CHALLIS HOUSE,
MARTIN PLACE, SYDNEY.
Brisbane Booking Agents: Burns, Philp and Co., Ltd.
HAWAI I
LOVELY HOLIDAY LAND.
All expenses of round-trip to this Island
Paradise —land of melody—£loo to £l5O in
8 weeks or less, including 3-4 weeks in
Hawaii and a day at Suva or Pago Pago.
Balmy weather, tropical fruits and flowers,
golf, tramping, outrigger canoeing, surfboard
riding, excellent motor roads. Inter-island
cruises; volcanic marvels. Quaint tea gardens;
good hotels with meals, 12/- to £3 per day.
Ask steamship or travel agencies or write
Hawaii Tourist Bureau, Dept. 26, Box 241 D,
G.P.0., Sydney, N.S.W., for beautifully-colored
booklet, enclosing this advertisement.
EN ROUTE TO AMERICA OR EUROPE
STOP-OVER PRIVILEGE FREE.
HAWAI I
Banking, Public Companies, etc.
The Australian Bank of Commerce Limited
Authorised Capital .. .. .. £5,000,000
Capital Paid Up and Reserves .. .. £2,685,303
Aggregate Assets at 30th June, 1920 .. £16,759,590
Directors: Sir Mark Sheldon, 1v.8.E., Chairman;
Frank N. Yarwood; Duncan Carson; H. R.
Lysaght, 0.8. E.; George J. Sly, LL.D.; Lieut.-
Col. T. L. F. Rutledge.
General Manager: C. M. C. Shannon.
Cinef Inspector for N.S.tV.: VV. G. Hull.
HEAD OFFICE, SYDNEY (Corner George and King
Streets).
Branches and Receiving Offices at 151 places in
New South Wales.
BRISBANE (264 Queen Street).
Chief Inspector for Queensland: L. Aveyard.
Manager: G. H. Howell.
Branches and Receiving Olfices at 27 places in
Queensland.
MELBOURNE (325 Collins Street).
Manager: M. B. Finney.
ADELAIDE (35 Bundle Street).
Manager: R. T. Moodie.
PERTH, W.A. (73 St. George’s Terrace).
Manager: A. C. Djudin.
LONDON (37 Threadnecdle Street, E.C.2).
Manager: A. F. Jenkins.
London Directors:
A. Dodds Fairbairn, Alfred Shepherd.
Agents throughout Australia. Tasmania and New
7a aland, and at all the Chief Cities of the World.
Every description of Banking Business Transacted.
Bank of Mow Zealand.
SYDNEY BRANCH:
Corner GEORGE and WYNYARD
STREETS.
Guaranteed Stock.. .. .. £52:*,988
Preference Shares .. .. .. 1,875,000
Ordinary Shares .. .. .. 3,760,000
Reserve Fund and Undivided Profits 3,390,378
GRANTS DRAFTS
on Australia, New Zea-
land, Fiji, Samoa,
Great Britain and Ireland, and other places.
RECEIVES DEPOSITS
at 1 nterest for
fixed periods, and
transacts all other usual Banking business.
The Bank of Adelaide
(Incorporated 1865.)
Pertli Office: St. George's Terrace.
Also, Fremantle, W.A.
Melbourne Office: 267 Collins Street.
Sydney Office: 279 George Street.
Authorised Capital .. £2,000,000
Subscribed Capital .. 875,000
Paid Up Capital £875,000
Reserve Fund .. .. .. .. 800,000
£1,675,000
Reserve liability of shareholders .. 875,000
£2,550,000
Head Office: ADELAIDE, SOUTH AUSTRALIA.
Also 114 Branches and Agencies in South Australia
London Office: 11 LEADENHALL STREET, E.C.
Agencies in all Australian States and throughout
the world.
Drafts and Letters of Credit issued on London,
America and elsewhere. Bills from abroad collected
and proceeds remitted, All usual banking business
transacted.
Australian Mutual
Established
1849.
Head Office:
87 Pitt St., Sydney
Provident Society
The Largest and Most Successful
Mutual Life Office in the British Empire,
Distributes a Cash Bonus Every Year.
Amount Distributed for single year 1925 £2,428,000
Yielding Reversionary Additions to
Policies of over .. .. .. £4,150,000
Accumulated Funds .. .. .. £60,000,000
Annual Income nearly .. .. .. £9,000,000
The Society transacts Every Class of Ordinary
and Industrial Assurance Business.
H. W. APPERLY, F.S.S., General Manager.
Keep hopping and hoping if you wish
to succeed .think of
ď
SCHUTE,
BELL&Cud.
if you have
Wool & Skins
to Sell.
Personal Attention.
Office): 44 Bridge Street, Sydney.
Shipping, etc.
Past and splen-
didly equipped
steamers using
oil fuel.
Spacious Decks,
Unrivalled
Cuisine.
CANADA, UNITED STATES,
UNITED KINGDOM
FORTNIGHTLY SAILINGS FROM SYDNEY.
CANADIAN-AUSTRALASIAN ROYAL MAIL LINE
via Auckland, Suva (Fiji), Honolulu, Victoria and Vancouver.
UNION ROYAL MAIL LINE
via Wellington, Rarotonga, Tahiti and San Francisco.
MATJNGANUI. 11,340 tons disp. JAN. 27, for San Francisco.
NIAGARA .... 18,600 „ ~ FEB. 10, for Vancouver.
MAKXJRA .. • 13,000 „ „ FEB. 24, for San Francisco.
AORANGI .. . 22,000 „ „ MARCH 10, for Vancouver.
■}. .
v.
"
The Scenic
Routes to the
United King-
dom, via South
Sea Islands,
Canada, United
States.
TICKETS TO THE UNITED KINGDOM INTERCHANGEABLE FOR RETURN
BY OTHER FINES.
SPECIAL HONOLULU EXCURSION FARES.
UNION STEAM SHIP CO.
f Union House, 247 George Street, Sydney.
\William Street, Melbourne.
MACDONALD, HAMILTON & CO., Brisbane, Adelaide and Perth.
SOUTH SEA TOURS
Attractive Island Trips, occupying about Weeks.
SIX-WEEKLY SAILINGS FROM SYDNEY TO
Now Britain- S.S. “MONTORO” (5000 tons)
"~ ” UliJttlll* Sails TTphruarv 1 and March 29.
Sails February 15 and March 29.
S.S. “MATARAM” (3500 tons),
vjvlvlllvll lalislllla a Sails February 2 and March 16.
A Delightful Holiday in Island Wonderlands.
For Particulars apply—
BURNS, PHILP & CO., LTD.,
Sydney, Melbourne, Adelaide and Brisbane.
./'A*,*
I
BURNS, PHILP & CO., LTD.,
Passenger Booking Agents for All Steamship Lines
ENGLAND
EUROPE
AMERICA
CANADA
AFRICA
INDIA
JAPAN
CHINA
JAVA, etc.
At regular passage rates. No extra charge.
Attractive tour to
NOUMEA, JAVA, HONOLULU, COLOMBO, etc.
VISIT JAVA (The wonderland of the East).
Regular monthly sailings of the s.s. “Marella” and
in.s. “Malabar” to Java and Singapore via Queensland
ports, Thursday Island, Darwin, etc. Smooth water trip,
Deck Cabins, interesting ports of call.
APPLY
BURNS, PHILP & COMPANY, LIMITED,
WORLD TOUR and TRAVEL DEPARTMENT,
7 BRIDGE STREET, SYDNEY.
BANK OF
Paid-up
Reserve
Reserve
Capital
Fund
Liability.
NIC W SOUTH
Established 1817.
#1%
WALES.
£6,000,000
1,750,000
- - 6,000,000
£16,750,000
Directors:
Thomas Buckland, Esq., President.
The Hon Reginald J. Black, M.L.C.
Charles Binnie, Esq.
James Burns, Esq.
Robert L. Faithfull, Esq., M.D.
Robert W. Gillespie, Esq.
Franc B. S. Falkiner, Esq.
Auditors: W. H. Palmer, Esq.; S. E. Laidley, Esq. General Manager: OSCAR LINES.
Head Office—George Street, Sydney. London Office—-29 Threadneedle Street, E.C. 2.
431 Branches and Agencies in the Australian States, New Zealand, Fiji, Papua, Mandated
Territory of New Guinea and London. Agents and Correspondents throughout the world.
Cable remittances made to, and drafts drawn on Foreign places DIRECT. Foreign Bills
negotiated and collected, Letters of Credit Issued, negotiable throughout the world.
The Commercial Banking Company
of Sydney Limited
ESTABLISHED 1834.
CAPITAL PAID UP £3,500,000 0 0
RESERVE FUND 3,000,000 0 0
RESERVE CAPITAL 3,500,000 0 0
£10,000,000 0 0
Directors :
GEORGE J. COHEN, Chairman: Hon. SIR THOMAS HUGHES, M.L.C., Deputy
Chairman: Hon. JAMES ASHTON, M.L.C.; Major-General the Hon. ,T. W.
MACARTHUR ONSLOW, V.D., M.L.C.; Sir WILLIAM VICARS, K. 8., C.B.E.
General Manager: J. R. DRYHURST.
HEAD OFFICE: Sydney, 343 George Street.
London Office.—lB Birchin Lane, Lombard Street, E.C.3.
Branches throughout New South Wales and Queensland. Agencies
throughout Australia and New Zealand, and all other parts of the World
All Classes of General Banking and Exchange Business Transacted.
SAFE DEPOSIT VAULTS.—lnspection invited. Particulars of
Safe Rentals on application.
Shippin
Inter-State Steamship
Sailings.
(Passenger Sailings—Circumstances permitting.)
FOR MELBOURNE, ADELAIDE and FREMANTLE
(Transhipping at Melbourne for Geelong and other
Victorian ports; at Adelaide for S.A. Gulf ports;
and at Fremantle for Perth, Bunbury, Geraldton
and North-West Ports).
f
FOR QUEENSLAND PORTS
(Transhipping at Brisbane for Maryborough, Bunda-
berg and Gladstone, and at Townsville for outports).
♦Brisbane, Mackay (passengers only), Townsville and
Cairns.
Huddart ParkerL
Magnificent
Fast Passenger
Steamships
STEAMERS TO NEW ZEALAND— Regular sailings
from Sydney to New Zealand ports and vice versa.
Particulars to be obtained on application.
STEAMERS TO TASMANIA—Krom Sydney to Hobart
and vice versa as per daily papers. Between Mel-
bourne and Launceston as per daily papers.
I' .or full particulars apply HUDDAIIT PARKER LIMITED,
Collins Street, Melbourne; Bridge Street, Sydney,
Interstate Telegraphic address
“NALDHAM.”
Cable address:
“NALDHAM.”
Macdonald, Hamilton 8 Co.
Collins Street, Melbourne,
Shipping Agents, Merchants, Colliery
Proprietors, Tug and Lighter Owners.
MANAGING AGENTS FOB
Australasian United Steam Navigation Co., Ltd.
Fitzroy Estates, Ltd.
Blackheath Collieries, Ltd., and Caledonian
Collieries, Ltd.
Eastern & Australian Steamship Co., Ltd.
AGENTS FOR
British-India S. N. Co., Ltd. P. & O. S. N. Co.
Queensland line of Steamers. Scottish Shire Line
(Turnbull, Martin & Co.). New Zealand Shipping Co.,
Ltd. Canadian-Australasian Royal Mail Line, San
Francisco Service (Union S.S. Co.), Union S.S. Co.
ot' New Zealand, Ltd. Hain Line. Huddart Parker,
Ltd. London Assurance Corporation (Marine). Mel-
bourne Agents for Messageries Maritimes Co. Queens-
land Agents for Sea Insurance Co., Ltd.
BRANCHES at Perth, Fremantle, Adelaide, Port
Adelaide, Sydney, Suva (Fiji), Brisbane, Mary-
borough, Bundaberg and Bowen.
“The Woman’s Mirror”
Published every Tuesday
PRICE 3d.
It deals with every subject of
interest to women.
For your
Summer Vacation
HOTEL
KOSCIUSKO
(Altitude 5000 ft.)
Golf, Tennis and Croquet.
Snow Sports, Ski-ing and
Tobogganing on the
higher ranges.
Motoring on excellent roads.
Special arrangements for parties.
Bookings and further particulars
at
N.S.W. Government
TOURIST BUREAU
Challis House, 8 Martin Place,
Sydney.


Outstanding Features of 1927 B.S.A.’s
SM.
Be*
INTERNAL
EXPANDING
HUB BRAKES
FRONT and
REAR.
IMPROVED
TYPE
OF
SILENCER.
LOW RIDINQ
POSITION and
TAPERED
TANK.
NEW
LUBRICATION
SYSTEM,
■with separate '
feed to
front chain.
Other distinctive features of 1927 B.S.A’s include screw adjustment on
gear box for accurately setting front chain tension; and shock absorbers
on all models. B.S.A. steering damper is fitted to 3.49-h.p. O.H.V. Super
Sports, 4.93-h.p. De Luxe, 5.57-h.p., 7.70-h.p. and 9.86 h.p. models.
Never was the value offered in B.S.A. machines so great as it is to-day, or
the choice so comprehensive. In the B.S.A. range of 13 models there is a
machine to suit you —lightweight solo, touring combination, or sports
model —a machine that embodies every essential to the full enjoyment of
motor cycling —easy starting, quick acceleration, comfortable riding
position, economical upkeep and reliability.
Send for Catalogue and Particulars of Easy Payment Terms
Motor Bicycles
PRICES FROM £57/10/-
AUSTRALIAN DISTRIBUTING AGENTS
N.S.W. \
Q’LANDJ
BENNETT & WOOD, LTD.,
284 Pitt Street, Sydney.
VICTORIA- f/ml/i y bros. motor cycles
PTY.j LTD.,
322 Elizabeth Street, Melbourne .
SOUTH AUS.-t/. N. TA YLOR & CO., LTD .
121 Grenfell Street, Adelaide
WEST AUS ,-MORTLOCK BROS., LTD.,
890 Hay Street, Perth .
TASMANIA-s//w king pty., ltd.,
63 Brisbane Street, Launceston .
B.S.A. Sub-Agents Throughout Australia.
D. Y. RENNIE ( Factory Representative), 49 ELIZABETH STREET, MELBOURNE.


Miss SHIRLEY MILTON, of lf>i
William Street, Darlinghurst, N.S.W.,
writes: "I would highly recommend
Dr. Sheldon’s Gin Pills to anyone
suffering from backache. I think tliev
are wonderful.”
f
\
II
Gin Pills Will Help You!
If you feel that your Kidneys are the cause of your sickness, your run-down
feeling, begin taking Dr. Sheldon’s Gin Pills for Backache and Kidney Trouble,
because as soon as your Kidneys improve they will help the other organs to health.
Dr. Sheldon’s Gin Pills for Backache and Kidney Trouble relieve the worst
cases, because they remove the cause of such troubles; they get to the root of the
matter, clean out the Kidneys and make
them filter out all the poisonous waste mat-
ters and uric acids that lodge in the joints
and muscles, causing Rheumatism. They
soothe and heal the bladder, and quickly
relieve you. They are.a unioue remedy, en-
tirely different from anything you have ever
used. There is nothing else to compare with
them. No matter how old you are, or how
long you have suffered, the very principle of
Dr. Sheldon’s Gin Pills is such that it is
•ractically impossible to take them into the
tuman system without obtaining results. Dr.
Sheldon’s Gin Pills, 1/9 and 2/9.
g&'Sg
as
&
m
W
9
3 3
ij
Q&JtX
HILLIERS
CHOCOLATES
J.
■ * i 3
« ’ .
a
W' j
w
, V .. ,
■ '•;•••••
m
m n
. J
“And he’s brought me
one of those lovely
Big Red Boxes!”
Made to-day and mailed
to you to-day.
Send for Catalogue Illustrated
with reproductions of our Con-
fectionery in color.
PRICES:
3/-, 5/6, 6/-, 10/-, 12/6„
20/- and 30/-
Post Free to any address'in
Austraiia.
162-166 Pitt Street; also
Corner George & King i Streets,
Sydney.
The Warden.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
ON night-veiled rock and hidden sand
The river rang a star-dim chime;
The forest slept on either hand,
More strange than some grey goblin-land
Lost out of time.
The late moon glimmered like a mist
Of shapeless and of scarlet flame;
Pale shadows seemed to writhe and twist
About a blind house keeping tryst
With things past name.
The forest mocked its sagging door,
Its windows blank and shutterless;
O’er gaping walls and rotting floor
The creeping briars clutched and tore
Its nakedness.
I do not know why in my heart
So deep a sorrow woke to life.
I felt alone ; the swift tears start
As though I, too, had borne my part
In that vain strife.
Or was it that I half believed
Some sentience forever clings
Where men have dwelt; or that, bereaved,
A sense of loss and longing grieved
Insensate things?
To me it would have seemed that night,
God knows, not even strange to see
In panes long dark a lonely light—
A phantom candle burning bright
And steadfastly.
I knew not then who long ago
Had called it home —nor know to-day—
At what lost looms of joy and woe
They wrought their hour, ’neath skies aglow,
So blue and gay!
“What matters it? What matters it?”
The river’s voices seemed to cry:
“Their lives were little candles lit,
Amid great shadows, where gods sit
To watch men die!
“What matters now what dooms befell?
Their fingers wrought Fate’s tapestries
A little while, or ill or well—
Ah ! what avails it to retell
Dead destinies?”
Yet, sure, not wholly dead were they,
Though in dark panes no ghost light
gleamed.
The house they loved seemed crouched at bay,
Blind warden to their dreamless clay
Of dreams long dreamed!
QUEENSLAND.
J. HOLLOWAY.
The Architect.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
MR. Francis Howard Greenway, lately
of the City of Bristol, architect,
stepped ashore in Sydney Cove,
under guard, on a bright and sunny morning
in the beginning of February, 1814.
An unhappy man was Mr. Greenway, a
man of more than one sorrow and regret. His
regrets and sorrows were those under which
many men have suffered who have raced
with Debt and been outrun; but in Green-
way’s case they had been intensified by that
unaccountable and inconvenient thing which,
for want of a better name, has been termed
the Artistic Temperament. Sensitiveness,
foolishness, coneeitfulness, deceitfulness, cow-
ardice and great courage are amongst the
many elements that combine in the com-
position of this remarkable phase of psychol-
ogy. Almost every contradictory ingredient
is included, so that the unfortunate indi-
vidual possessed of it may'be, at the same
time, a saint and a satyr, a\hero and a pol-
troon, a generous man and \ a mean one, u
gross sensualist and one who*is appreciative
of the things of the spirit. All his life it
was to afflict Francis Greeirway; all his
tradition and memory was to be'enriclied and
ennobled by it. He owed to it all his un-
happiness as well as all that endures of
him in the story of Australia.
He was thirty-seven years of age when he
came ashore at the King’s Wharf that morn-
ing and stood in an apprehensive and un-
promising parade of felonry upon the door-
step of the Newest World; but he looked
older. There were lines in his face which
should not properly have been there for
another ten years, and his spare figure was a
little inclined to stoop, as though his affliction
had been heavier than his shoulders were
capable of bearing. When he straight-
ened himself to regard the world into which
he had been pitchforked with cruel careless-
ness, it was with an air of nervous shame
that was pitiable and pathetic.
There was not much in the aspect of
Sydney Town that could be expected to
cheer an architect of reputation and achieve-
ment. The buildings were primitive and
generally hideously utilitarian, with little
claim or pretence to adorn their neighbor-
hoods. You may see a very fair sample
of the more imposing of them on the west
side of the Circular Quay to-day, in the old
Commissariat Stores, their ancient stones
marked by the signs' manual of the unfor-
tunates who toiled in their construction so
long ago—an ugly, grim building *of the sort
to be met with inside the walls • of a gaol.
The streets running inland from the strand
were little better than cart-tracks,, unbear-
ably boggy in wet weather and dusty in dry,
which were bordered by mean little cottages
and huts standing in paling enclosures that
surrounded untidy gardens. Nothing could
mar the beauty of the town’s position, it is
true, but the place itself was an abominable
eyesore, well calculated to depress and daunt
the new arrival — most particularly 4-wiien he
or she happened to be about to begin a
rigorous course of penal servitude. That, to
the best of his belief, was Mr. Greenway s
unfortunate position, and he found nothing
to cheer him in the scene he contemplated.
Blustering and bullying Overseer Clancy,
of the Convict Department, however, was
to act the part of a messenger from gods
more propitiously disposed towards him than
he had allowed himself to expect. Clancy
slouched down the line of prisoners, eyeing
them malevolently, with their muster-roll in
his hand, and an expression in his face that
seemed to bode them little good.
“Ye’re a dam’ ugly lot o’ gallows-birds,"
he informed them in his hnsky fashion —“an
there don’t seem to be a decent man among
ye. Which on ye is Greenway—Francis
Howard Greenway, Bristol Assizes, fourteen
year? Step forward, Greenway, an’ look
alive about it.”
Nervously the architect took a pace out
of the irregular rank, and received a rude
and unpleasant welcome from the overseer.
“Ho — you, ye ! An’ a pore mis’ble speci-
ment you looks to be, too. Are ye quite
sure ye're Greenway—’tain’t no use a-comin
hany games wi’ me. Now then, ain’t ye got
a tongue in y’r gob, damn ye?”
Mr. Greenway gulped, and replied shyly:
“Yes, my name’s Greenway.”
“Ho, is it? Well, lemme tell ye, Mister
Greenway, ye’ll say ‘sir’ w’en ye haddress
a hofficer. SIR, ye rubbish! Say it.
damn ye.”
“Yes, sir,” faltered the prisoner—“l'm
Greenway.”
“Well, then, Mister Greenway, would you
kindly be so good as to step up to Gov’mint
’Ouse? ’ls Hex’lency wants a word wi’ ye.
Look alive, now, an’ don’t stand heyin’ me.
Git up th’ ’ill an’ see Gen’ral Macquarie. ’
So Mr. Greenway departed vaguely inland
from the edge of Australia, and in due course
made the acquaintance of his saviour from
a despair that had threatened to overwhelm
him.
» » * *
Mr. Greenway’s advertisement in the
Sydney Gazette —you may read it in the
issue of December 17, 1814 —indicates some-
thing of his standing in the society of early
Sydney, after Governor Macquarie had given
him a ticket-of-leave on the recommendation
of Admiral Phillip. Here it is:—
F. H, Greenway, 84 George Street, from a practice
of many years as an Architect in some of the most
extensive concerns in England, public, speculative
and private ; and having been several years connected
with one of the ablest Improvers of Estates, as
well in the agricultural part as in the beautifying,
wishes to improve estates; giving them all the
advantages Nature has designed they should receive
from the Art and Labour of Man. He flatters him-
self he may be of service to those Landholders who
may be aware of the present as well as the future
Advantages of such Improvements in this Colony.
Plans, Elevations and Sections of the Building, from
the simple Cottage to the most extensive Mansion;
making out a bill of Quantities) for the workmen to
estimate from, and to ascertain the Expence of the
Building for the Proprietor; plans of the most
approved Staircases; of Shop Fronts; of Chimney
Pieces; Awnings and Verandahs; Ornaments' of
every Description and models of Buildings, he is
anxious to provide; and his terms are Five-per-cent.
In spite of this compendious statement of
his qualifications, Greenway had not done
well at the practice of his profession in
Sydney; but he was fortunate enough to find
a friend and patron in Macquarie, who saved
him from a second failure—he had been
transported for concealing some of his effects
at his examination in bankruptcy—and
placed him in the way of making a name
for himself in this country, as an architect,
which has not yet been bettered. By every
instinct the Governor was a builder, culti-
vated a policy of kindness and encourage-
ment to the emancipist class, and had an
inextinguishable faith in the ultimate destiny
of the province he had been sent out to
govern and guide. Greenway was to him
a gift from the gods. He determined to
make the fullest possible use of his protege’s
talents, and the many buildings scattered
about the County of Cumberland which bear
liis own name, and the unmistakable impress
of Greenway’s genius, testify to the fact that
he fully availed himself of them. So wm
come to a very notable day in the biography
of Mr. Green way. This is Macquarie’s own
record of it as he entered it in his journal
under date of December 16, 1817: —
Capt, Gill, Acting Engineer, &c., being about to
take his departure for England, and the whole of
the stone-mason works of “Macquarie” Tower and
Light House at the South Head of Port Jackson,
including the cutting of the inscription, being now
completed, Mrs. Macquarie and myself made up a
Party of Friends to breakfast this day in honour of
Capt. Gill to view this noble magnificent edifice;
the Party consisting of our own Family, Capt.
Gill, Lt.-Govr. Erskine, Rev. Mr. and Mrs. Cowper,
Dr. and Mrs. Redfern and Mrs. Riley, with her own
and Colonel Molles’ children; most of the Party
having gone down with us in the Government Barge.
Having breakfasted and remained at Macquarie
Tower some time, we returned home by water;
stopping at Bennelong’s Point, where the ceremony
was performed of laying the Foundation Stone of the
New Fort proposed to be erected on that Point,
and which was this day named “Fort Macquarie.”
At 3 p.m. this same day, I also laid the Foundation
Stone of the new stables for Govt. Horses, &c., &c.,
intended to be erected on the site of the old Bake
House within the Government Domain, and con-
tiguous to the present Government House. This
being altogether a very interesting day, and an
auspicious one, I presented Mr. Greenway, the Govt.
Acting Architect, his emancipation—dated this day
—it being delivered to him at Macquarie Tower this
morning before we breakfasted.
Mr. Greenway stood upon the beach at
Watson’s Bay, close beside where Mac-
quarie’s little obelisk marks the completion
of the new road from Sydney to this point
on the coast of Port Jackson some six years
before this date, and watched the procession
of boats containing the Governor’s party come
round the Bottle and Glass rocks on the
other side of the pretty bay, at whose head
was situated the estate so lavishly improved
by that redoubtable knight in exile, Sir
Henry Browne Hayes, to which he had
given the name of Vaucluse. With him was
Andrew McNab, his clerk-of-works in the
erection of the Macquarie Tower on the
hilltop behind them. A famous slave-driver
was Mr. McNab, and as trustworthy to the
architect as he was severe to the convic*
workmen employed under his direction.
Mr. Greenway was gloomy and preoccu-
pied, and his companion made terse and sar-
castic comment on the fact.
“Man,” he said, “what ails ye? Ye look
as solemn as a doxy at a christ’ning. ’Tis
(Continued on next page.)


"€W ry picture
Zells a S for y‘
"IM - Ill'll l''i
a
'>-0'
m
'Vv
■» • ! \\.r"jrs,Mi
m
i
'•-•
«N
KEEP DOAN’S IN THE HOUSE!
PROMPT TREATMENT PREVENTS KIDNEY COMPLAINT
BACKACHE, urinary disorders, puffiness about the
eyes, swollen ankles, rheumatic twinges and dizzi-
ness are early signs of kidney trouble. Never neglect
such warnings! Rheumatism, stone, dropsy or incurable
stages of kidney disease may result. Keep a bottle of
Doan’s Backache Kidney Pills always in the house.
Doan’s Pills are not only curative in their effect —they are also a preventive kidney medicine. Even
when well, you should take an occasional course of Doan’s to fortify the kidneys.
TWO COMPLETE CURES.
Mrs. S. T. Burrows, 19 Springside Street, Rozelle, Sydney,
says:—“ln common with many others I have nothing but good
to say for Doan’s Backache Kidney Pills. Some few years ago
I was suffering a lot with my kidneys, and in consequence was
troubled with pains across the small of my back and dizzy
feelings, besides having no energy for anything. One day my
attention was called to Doan’s Backache Kidney Pills, and in
the hope that they might benefit me I got a bottle. After taking
them for a few days my health began to improve, and by the
time I had used, six bottles I was completely cured. I am
grateful to Doan’s Pills for the good they have done me, and
hope many will profit by my experience and use this splendid
remedy. I never suffer with backache now, in fact, feel splendid
in every way.”
►six years later Mrs. Burrows says:— “l have had no reason
to alter my good opinion of Doan’s Backache Kidney Pills. They
cured me some years ago, and I am still well.”
TESTIMONY
FROM
SYDNEY.
Mr. W. J. Frappell, who has been in the employ of Messrs.
Wright, Heaton and Co., Sydney, for nearly thirty years, says:
“It gives me pleasure to testify to the curative value of Doan’s
Backache Kidney Pills. I had been suffering with an aching
back for a number of years, and at times it was very severe.
After trying many remedies without getting any ease whatever,
I was advised to take Doan’s Backache Kidney Pills. I did so,
and from the first few doses got relief, and after using three
bottles I was entirely free of backache. I am thoroughly cured,
and hope this statement will meet the eye of other sufferers and
be the means of them getting relief through the use of Doan’s
Backache Kidney Pills.”
Twenty-two years later Mr. Frappell says:—“l am still
a great believer in Doan’s Backache Kidney Pills. They cured
me many years ago, and I find by taking this remedy now and
then that I am able to keep free from the torture of backache.”
sdf
DOAN'S
Backache
Kidney
PILLS.
Price 2/9 per bottle, at
all Chemists and Stores,
or from Foster-McClellan
|f.Co M 15 Hamilton Street,
H Sydney.
nae tae be dootit ye’re an exceedingly ill-
used body wi’ y’r lang face an’ a’. No
man i’ th’ Territory has suffered th’ like
o’ Francis Greenway—oh, surely not! Not
a favor’s been done tae ye a’ th’ days ye’ve
been here—-has there, noo? His Excellency
canna' bear for tae hae ye a-nigh tae him,
let alone neglectin’ y’r talent tae sic an’
extent ye might ha’ deed o’ star-rvation.
Indeed no! Shamefu’ I ca’ it; an’ little
wunner ye look so lanesome an’ a picture
o’ mis’ry. Pray, what’s he done th’ noo,
Mr. Greenway? Is he for a-sendin’ ye tae
work on th’ roads that ye look sac doon i’
th’ mouth?”
The architect shook his head impatiently.
“Ah,” he said with a certain bitterness,
“ ’tis all very well for you to have your
little joke, Mr. McNab. Of course, I know
that Mr. Macquarie has favored me more
than I have had any right to expect, and
has allowed my poor talents to have a scope
which I had never anticipated when I came
to the colony. But there’s something rankles.
I trust I’m not ungrateful, but indeed I
have a grievance. And a legitimate one,
too.”
“Well, then, oot wi’ it, man. Never did
one improve by being kept lockit in a man’s
own breast. Pray, what is it, noo? I’ll
no gie it away, whatever ’tis.”
, Mr. Greenway sighed. He waved a hand
towards the approaching boats, already well
into the bay. “Well, there it is,” he said
slowly, frowning a little—“there on the
water. And not only there, Mr. McNab, but
everywhere I turn in the town, and in all
the settlement beside. Whenever I look at
one of the buildings I’ve designed, and whose
erection I’ve supervised, I think of it—and
such thinking hurts me. Here, now, behind
us up on the edge of the cliffs is this new
lighthouse. I planned it—nay, ’twas your
humble servant who conceived its very exist-
ence and suggested it to his Excellency, and
I watched over its birth and growth. Ably
assisted, I must admit, by your very good
self, to whom I am vastly indebted. Here
we are, on the day when it receives the
approval of authority, and is to be opened
in state by Mr. Macquarie himself, with some
manner of celebration and ceremony, and in
the presence of a distinguished party of
lookers-on. But where do I come in? Where
is the parent of this fine work —for I know
that it is good work, soundly executed—-
where does he stand? Is he one of the party
that the Governor delights to honor? Is
he credited with the labor of his brain and
the labor of his hands? Does any honor
come his way? Nay, Mr. McNab, he’s but
a fraudulent bankrupt, transported for what
has been harshly adjudged a felony, and
merely an unconsidered convict on ticket-
o’-leave. Frank Greenway doesn’t count.
He’s a mere cog in the wheel of the public
works, whilst this Captain Gill, who’s had
next to nothing to do with the whole busi-
ness, is specially invited to make a day of
it as a guest of authority and a person of
distinction. Ah, well,” he sighed, “I know
my place—damme, I’ve been taught to know
my place.”
“Man,” said Mr. McNab in a whisper—
the boats were in shoal water, and the lead-
ing crew had tossed its oars —“man, ’tis ma
verra cer-rtain opeenion that ye’re naething
but a gomeril. Bide y’r time, Mr. Green-
way, bide y’r time. And remember, General
Macquarie’s no’ a damned English body—
he’s a guid Scot. An’ though a Scot may
ca’ canny, he’s no ungrateful when grati-
tude’s desairved. Man, as I’ve obsairved,
ye’re just a dam’ fule. Bide y’r time, laddie
—bide y’r time.”
* * » *
The Macquarie Tower stood close to the
position of the present lighthouse, which
succeeded it in 1880, on a spot 277 feet
above sea-level. It was 76 feet high, and
the light itself was visible from a ship’s deck
on a clear night at a distance of 24 miles.
The tower, with the light-keeper’s residence
at its base, was an admirable and beautiful
piece of architecture, and Mr. Greenway did
little work that was finer in all that he
accomplished in New South Wales. It was
Australia’s first lighthouse, and, so far as
its architectural merit is concerned, has not
been bettered on the coasts of the Common-
wealth since, its completion, more than a
hundred years ago.
Up the winding track that led through
the scrub-clad gullies behind Watson’s Bay
to the crest of South Head, the Governor
and Mrs. Macquarie led the procession from
the boats grounded on the strip of sandy
beach where the vice-regal party had been
met by Mr. Greenway and Mr. McNab.
These two followed in its wake, immediately
ahead of the servants carrying material for
the feast that was to mark the great occa-
sion. And when they came to the base of
the tower, the whole party grouped them-
selves respectfully about his Excellency, well
knowing that an oration was inevitable.
Such an opportunity was not one that would
be neglected. Came a sudden surprise for
Mr. Green way. An orderly touched him on
the shoulder and whispered.
“Th’ Gov’nor’s lady’s wantin’ ye, Mister
—Mrs. Macquarie. Ye’re to go to her at
once.”
Bashfully Mr. Greenway stepped from be-
hind the little crowd, and made his way to
Where Mrs. Macquarie stood beside the Gov-
ernor near the verandah-covered entrance to
the new building. He was woefully con-
scious of the shabbiness of his attire in con-
trast with the full-dress uniform of Mac-
quarie and the other military officers, and
felt that lie cut a poor figure in the face of
so much gorgeousness. But the gentle, pretty
little woman took his hand and smiled at
him in a fashion that cheered his sad and
discontented heart. There were few whom
Mrs. Macquarie’s friendly greeting could not
cheer.
“Mr. Greenway,” she said, “I want you
to stand beside me and listen to what my
husband has to say. ’Twill interest you, I
think.”
“Morning, Mr. Greenway,” said the Gov-
ernor, taking his hand and shaking it vigor-
ously. He turned to face his audience with
a folded paper in his grasp. Mr. Greenway
was bewildered. He was not used to such
honors, and was not a little confused when
he considered the group of people in front
of him, who, he felt sure, had small approval
of this exaltation of a humble prisoner on
ticket-of-leave. He was well acquainted
with the snobbery, almost vindictiveness, of
the class which constituted “society” in
Sydney in 1817, and knew that there "was
hardly a person present who did not tacitly-
resent the smile that Mrs. Macquarie had
for him, and the Governor's hand-grip.
Macquarie began to orate. He threw out
his broad chest, and extended a hand towards
the tower, standing out against the morning
blueness of sea and sky. His audience braced
itself, and prepared to receive some ponderous
truths and platitudes.
“Ladies and gentlemen, it affords Me the
Extremist Gratification to find you here
assembled in contemplation of this Very
Elegant and Strong Stone Tower and Light
so Gloriously and Auspiciously about to be-
gin the fulfilment of its part of the Beacon
leading the ocean traveller into this Land of
Promise.” (Macquarie not only used them
lavishly in his literary efforts —he also talked
in capitals.) I cannot disguise my Feelings
on such an Occasion. And what are those
Feelings'? They are many; but before I
proceed to enumerate them in detail, I will
define that which principally Stirs my Bosom
here this morning. It is one of Deep Grati-
tude to my Friend, Mr. Francis Howard
Greenway, the talented Gentleman whose
Indubitable Genius has raised this Noble
Monument to —ah—the Enterprise of the
Administration of this Territory in the pre-
sent Era, and to be a Sign and Portent for
all time of the beginnings of Architectural
Culture and the Refinements and Blessings
of Civilisation in New South Wales. We
are gathered here to do Mr. Greenway honor,
and I Myself”
He went on to enumerate, in a guilelessly
bragging fashion, all the good things he had
done for the country during the seven years
through which he had ruled it. It was never,
to do his Excellency justice, mentioned, or
even hinted, that Lachlan Macquarie was
responsible for these public benefits —always
the reference was to “Government”—but
every one present was quite well aware that
the only form of government in all Australia
was Lachlan Macquarie. Presently he came
to the point.
“So I hereby inaugurate this Magnificent,
Useful Work, and dedicate it to the Service
of Contemporary Humanity and of Pos-
terity, under the name and title of the Mac-
quarie Tower, to be a Guide and Succor
to Mariners, and an Eternal Credit to Gov-
ernment. Mr. Greenway, it affords me the
Deepest Gratification to hand to you now
this document, which restores you to that
position in Society of which Misfortune had
deprived you. I would call, Ladies and
Gentlemen, for Three Cheers for Mr. Green-
way. Mr. Greenway, pray allow me to
proffer you your full Emancipation. Come,
Ladies and Gentlemen —Hip, hip, Hip”;
When the polite but not too warm cheer-
ing had subsided, the abashed Mr. Greenway
struggled to return his faltering thanks, which
the Governor received graciously, and with
great benevolence. Mrs. Macquarie mur-
mured in the reddened ears of the architect:
“Oh, Mr. Greenway, I am so pleased.”
And bashfully and diffidently Mr. Green-
way retired behind the crowd, which the
Governor continued to harangue.
J. H. M. ABBOTT.
Apple Isle.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
WHEN the night hours gather grey,
I am back to days of old,
Where the seeding grasses sway
By the Capeweeds’ cloth o’ gold.
Dimmed by dust and choked with drouth,
How my spirit longs awhile
For the havens of the south,
Far away in Apple Isle!
For the russet roads and green
Through the brackens and the musk—
Dappled ways that wind between ;
Bronzewings crooning in the dusk.
When the west flames into flower,
Fern and feathery grasses mark.
Goblin crickets call the hour,
First the daylight and the dark.
Purples on the eastern hill;
Towering spurs of eucalypt;
Dells where dusky blackwoods spill
Scented showers, downward dripped.
Night along the range remote,
Stirring to a seaward breeze,
With a brown owl's haunting note
Mourning from the myrtle trees.
When the month’s enchanted smile
Past the blue dividing sea,
All along by Apple Isle
(Land of yesterday for me)
I remember moonrise hours,
And the molten paths that lay
Where the starsliine breaks in showers
Eastward over Emu Bay.
Love and youth have left me lone,
Faith and friendship fallen behind;
Still I hear the woodnotes blown—
Pipes of Pan—along the wind;
Find enchanted asphodels,
Dream immortal melodies,
In the swing of wildflower bells
And the surge of summer seas.
When the whispering trees are bowed,
Still I find the glamor grows
In the color of a cloud
Or the ruffling of a rose;
By the rainbowed w r aterfalls
Catch the faery light that gleams,
Hear the wondrous madrigals
Weaving through my misty dreams.
Could I take my way to-night
Down the bracken-bordered road,
Find the lanes of lost delight
Where the saffron sunset glowed,
I should ask no other boon,
When the blossoming orchards smile
Underneath a curving moon
Far away in Apple Isle.
VICTORIA.
KATHLEEN DALZIEL.


f mm
i Jf jtf Jlilii'dPf
Hi ■-
f! ilf 1 >-
iS
WESTIHCHOUSE
Morse Silent Rocker-Joint
CHAIN DRIVES
Ensure minimum wear—
Maximum life and highest
efficiency.
Chains in stock-wheels manu-
factured to suit requirements.
Write for particulars
and Booklet BM 414.
THE WESTINGHOUSE BRAKE CO.
OF AUSTRALASIA LTD.,
Queensland Agents—HOLMES & CHURCH, Brisbane.
N.Z. Office—93-107 Featherston Street, Wellington.
CONCORD WEST, N. S. WALES.
Victorian Office—99 Queen Street, Melbourne. , mirk . . , ., CA
South Australian Agents: Messrs. ELDER, SMITH & CO,, LTD., Adelaide, S.A.
NON-PLUS-ULTRA
CORKBOARD
for
Cold Storage Insulation.
Compressed Cork Sheets, Standard Size 3ft. x Ift.,
in various thicknesses.
Large stocks available for immediate delivery.
J. WILDRIDGE 8 SINCLAIR, LTD.,
97 PITT STREET, SYDNEY,
And at Melbourne, Brisbane, Perth and Auckland (N.Z.).
BEST FOR THE HAIR ON
ALL OCCASIONS
’ -” v
' | St •
■ i
Anzora will master the most un-
ruly hair and keep it in place all
day. Anzora Cream for greasy
scalps, Anzora Viola for dry
scalps. Sold by chemists, hair-
dressers, stores or from our agents
REFUSE ALL SUBSTITUTES
MASTERS THE HAIR
Agents for Australia:
Lyall Willis & Co., Ltd.
Melbourne—Baldwin & Slattery
Pty.y Ltd.
Sydney—Jones & Joseph, Ltd.
Adelaide —Arthur Glover.
Brisbane —Gregory & Collins.
Perth —L. M. Cullen & Co.
Manufactured by
ANZORA PERFUMERY Co., Lid.
Willesden Lane, London, England.
£25
05°
I
CREAM
MASTERS THE HAIR
Antoni Ptrfuffl«vy Co Vid
LONOON MW 6
0
Remington. UMC
Shotgun Cartridges
are really “Wetproof”
NOT MERELY the paper case but
over shot wad and turn over are sealed
against dampness or submersion for
several hours.
No swollen bodies, no jamming at a critical moment but
quick firing, hard hitting cartridges - at all times - in all
weathers.
Shoot out the facts /
REMINGTON ARMS COMPANY, Inc.
D. D. BRYANT, Representative
G. O. P. Box 686 E Melbourne, Viet.
F 21
<
Are of vegetable origin
Best suited to purposes
Of purification
A Wonderful Pill
Simple to take - easy to use
Contain nothing harmful
Contain no gas - not oily
A Safe Pill
You can rely upon
BEECHAM’S PILLS
To give natural assistance
To stomach, liver and bowels
And promote sound health
A Sure Pill
BEECHAM’S PILLS
Afford positive relief
when you suffer from
Biliousness, sick headache
Indigestion, constipation*
the (Amf-
4u£ it nuutH
3>
O
Have you tried the New
LODGE
MADEIH ENGLAND
SAMSON
CLARK
ftiODGE
PLUG
on your Morris T
The feature of this new plug is that
you can maintain full power from your
engine as long as you like with no
fear of the plug overheating.
This new Lodge plug is also excep-
tionally good for easy starting and per-
fect slow running.
Lodge plugs are made in dif-
ferent models to suit all makes
of engines, arid are obtainable
from leading accessory dealers,
garages, and stores. *
Note long reach.
Ask for Lodge C. 8.3 for Morris,
Packed In Cream Metal Box (sealed).
S/b
liODGE PDTJGS I/TD.,
S to 100 B. P.
lto«
Cylinders
4 Cycle
A
Jl
A
r»>
MARI WE ENGINES
Marine Engines are made
with the precision of a watch, all parts
evenly balanced, eliminating vibration
friction. More power with less fuel.
All Parts Standard and Inter-
changeable. American Bosch
Magnetos—lmpulse coupling*
HALL BROS.,
Foot of Willoughby St.,
North Sydney, Australia.
Kernsath
Drtroii, raicn., u. a* a*
. Cable Addhreia:—KEßM ATH
HARBOR TOURIST TRIPS
Weather and other circumstances permitting.
From Fort Macquarie at 10.15 a.m. and 2.15 pm,
EVERY TUESDAY AND EVERY THURSDAY.
Fares: All-day. 2/6; Half-day, 1/6, Children, 1/- and 6d.
Luncheon by reservation at Clifton Gardens Hotel. Afternoon Tea on Board
SPECIAL TRIP EVERY SUNDAY at 3 p.m. from No. 6 JETTT,'CIRCULAR QUAY
m , Adults, 1/6. Children, 6d.
Teis.: 862 j 6 (4 lines). Sydney Ferries, Ltd.


o
&USON
HARO
U©
DEWAR’S
THE SPIRIT OF ENTERPRISE
Enterprise plays the principal part in the dramatic
glory of achievement* So many good things con-
tribute to its make-up; courage and chivalry, resolution
and fortitude; vigour and that unfailing spring of
healthy optimism . .
DEWAR’S
