

•••‘in cl
delight
Pour a brimming glass of K.B. Lager. See the
rich, tawny hue of the sparkling liquor . . . bright
as liquid sunshine . . . clear . . . enticing . . . and
absolutely pure.
For at every stage in its brewing by every known
scientific and hygienic means —the most scrupulous
care is exercised to place K.B. on your table in
this state of perfect purity. And with it there is
health . . . enjoyment . . . refreshment . . . where
the glittering beads are dancing in a goblet of
delight. K.B. is a TRUE Lager.
§llil
il3
i\
t \
■:
m
,>\
i rM
<o>
£»/
TOOTHS
Brewed and Bottled by TOOTH & Co. LIMITED, Kent Brewery SYDNEY.
The Bulletin
Vol. 48.—N0. 2459.
See page 36.
Thursday, March 31, 1927.
Price 6d.
Registered at the General Post Office, S) T dney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.


WITHIN THE SHADOW,
By MAURICE O. GROOM,
A book devoted to Australia’s problem*.
6/- (Postage 3d.), ALL BOOKSELLERS. /
THE New Library Catalogue is now
ready and will be forwarded post free, with full
particulars, on application to
DYMOCK’S BOOK ARCADE. LTD.,
428 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
LYSAGHT
o
0
R
AUSTRALIA
Support Australian Industries.
All users of Galvanized Iron should specify
Lysaght’s Australian-made
Galvanized Corrugated Iron.
Manufactured wholly from Australian Raw
Materials, and equal to the best imported.
Gr m
QU
life* V is the first slgU
0 ,%« r 0a%“|.t drf» <°
It '« a « m Ss*a»4 an.l
ne, *uijK»» tat,p m l pi
JoSV'afil
a j? W c Only »J d aC ung
“o®g '“Sue &
Voung can tM Ui{e be en-
and pleasures
i%L first .B^KKfad
«. «»* kTrASrA
* Massing y°?Si
®£v§£|
“™/mS"UA«Iaa
A«a?: s
.. 4-rv n«Ps *- b V _
mpw .
itaiu. J -r:"v, S e It will im
ssr|s^“
S' shade. ..
lUtt" - fT
Stam. 1
harmless
«4nntlV
to use
any
md stores Ageng-
or dire c ■
Duerdm & ( '; ‘V4/6 to «® vel
Melbourne erob er
/
f J Vi Wm
/
mlcwics
WALNUT S I
r
ŕ
PLUM
The morning shave is never 9
trial if you use a PLUM.
Guaranteed and kept in order for
two years Free.
CRAIG & AITKEN,
654 George. Street* Sydney.
*
m
POST FREE
"1
Wd
Sure Death to All Insects.
THE TYPHOID FLY,
A Messenger of Death to Man.
Kill that Fly with
"MUSTDIE"
The Non Poisonous Powder.
Kills Cockroaches, Fleas, Bugs,
Mosquitos.
Sold everywhere, Chemists, Grocers,
Storekeepers, 1/- a tin.
Or forward 1/- in stamps to
BOX 1520 G.P.0., SYDNEY.
The House Fly
aptly
termed
the
Typhoid Fly
ŗ
Showing tin
rough hair;
body an;
head asc
legs, on
which
Microbes a
Disease adhsrt
RILL
MAT FLTf
The Red Page
Katharine Susannah Prichard
[A powerful short story by this author, written for
The Bulletin, is printed elsewhere in this number.]
Katharine Susannah Prichard may be
described as the most “modern” of Austra-
lian writers. She has discarded a great deal
of useless literary baggage, preferring to
travel freely and make direct contact with
life. Nothing matters except this sense of
life, and we feel that her best novels have
been drawn from vital sources. They are
always real and intensely alive in every
page. “A novel can’t exist,” as D. H. Law-
rence puts it, “without being ‘quick.’ The
ordinary unquiet novel, even if it be a best-
seller, disappears into absolute nothingness,
the dead burying their dead with surprising
speed.” Whatever faults they may possess,
Miss Prichard’s novels are decidedly
“quick.” They are an interpretation or
revelation of life, hot literary confectionery
or so-called entertainment. This is the
modern attitude; and in her outlook on
life, as well as in her technical method,
the author of “Black Opal” and “Working
Bullocks” belongs to the twentieth century.
Her contribution to Australian literature
is not bulky', but it is important. Her first,
novel, “The Pioneers,” which won the Hod-
der and Stoughton prize in a £1000 Empire
competition, had a good theme and -many
good passages, but essentially, to my taste,
it w r as little more than a first-rate example
of the conventional novel. An enqrmous
advance was made by “Black Opal,” pub-
lished by Heinemann’s, a beautifully-writ-
ten book, full of the shimmer of the opal-
fields, and with delicate impressions of the
bush landscapes that are suggestive of cer-
tain wonderful passages in Lawrence, though
written before that great seer had visited
Australia. “Black Opal” is an original and
unusual book, with more power and beauty
in it than in a score of more popular Aus-
tralian novels. The method is now much
' subtler than in “The Pioneers,” the flow
of life being regarded as more important
than a well-rounded story. The old-fash-
ioned English novel might be good or bad,
but it was always written to a set plan.
It followed rigid rules of composition, and
was as carefully constructed as a well-made
play. B characters and situations didn’t
happen to fit in, they had to be altered to
suit, the author’s pre-arranged scheme. The
scheme, of course, was fixed, and on no
account could be altered to suit the char-
acters and situations. If life ran on wheels,
this method would have served very well;
but, unfortunately, life refuses to go like
that, and the chief impression we gather
from the majority of the good old novels
is their falsity and unreality. We simply
don’t believe in them. We know the poor
author made it all up in his head to please
or edify his readers, and the result is bore-
dom. That is why so many of these novels
are exactly the same, like one of those
typical British faces mentioned by Wilde,
that, once seen are never remembered. The
modern writer at least tries to get closer to
life, and he is much freer and more daring
in his attack. It is not that the modern
novel is chaotic and formless; it has its
own natural form which is determined by
its content and not by any arbitrary liter-
ary convention.
“Working Bullocks,” Miss Prichard’s
latest novel, recently published by Jonathan
Cape, is her finest work, and probably the
best novel ever written in Australia. W.e
live through it rather than merely read it.
We forget the printed pages, and seem actu-
ally to be among the big timber with primi-
tive working people. It is a life experience,
for this is an elemental work, powerfully
realised, without a thought of concession or
compromise. From the moment Red Burke
appears against the sombre background of
the bush, with his team of bullocks, to
his last defiant cry to Mrs. Colburn, we are
with real people in real situations. They
are all bush folk, taken simply as human
beings and treated without a touch of
sentimentality or caricature. There are no
heroes, no supermen; but the grekt jarrah
forest has got into the book and filled its
pages with glamor and mystery. ' Nothing
is common or matter of fact. Life moves
to a large and noble rhythm inf this primi-
tive Western world. The characters, rough
as they are, have a natural dignity, so when
Red Burke lifts his bullock-whip, or a split-
ter swings an axe, it, becomes an impressive
and significant, gesture. It is a wonderful
gift to see life as intensely as that,': For we
feel that, the Writer’s vision is authentic.
She has no mere prettiness or cleverness
derived from the naughty 'nineties, and none
of the inhibitions and insipidities associated
with the great Victorian age. She adds no
meringue-cream that Anatole France tells
us often badly dissimulates the poverty of the
cake. It, is absolutely sincere work, deeply
felt and truthfully expressed. Take Mary
Ann Colburn, with her huge family, the
elemental Earth mother: she is as rich and
full-blooded a creation as a character in an
old piaster. Her animal cries, when her
son is killed in a mill accident, are irra-
tional, but perfectly natural to a purely
natural creature. The company we meet
in the sawmills boarding-house are living
people with their curious idiosyncrasies,
turns of thought and scraps of vivid dia-
logue. And surely we know Red Burke and
Deb as intimately as our own friends.
Every little twist of thought and emotion,
conscious and unconscious, is made clear to
us. At the beginning Red Burke with his
bullocks is a splendid figure, but as the
story advances he becomes sullen and inarti-
culate —unnecessarily so, it seems to me. On
the other hand, Deb’s love of the trees be-
comes vocal. It is beautifully expressed,
but the treatment seems objective in the
one case and subjective in the other. Doubt-
less there are faults to be found, Leslie De
Gaze, a very minor character, appearing, for
instance, almost as a caricature of one of
Lawrence’s splendid English heroes. But
whatever faults there may be are trivial
and non-essential. The important thing is
that “Working Bullocks” is undoubtedly a
work of genius, and a novel of which any
country might be proud.
LOUIS ESSUS.
An Author in Search of Reality
No dramatist has aroused greater inter-
est in post-war Europe than Pirandello,
whose work was introduced to Sydney last
year in “Six Characters in Search of an
Author.” A man nearing 60, he suddenly
found himself launched on that tide of
notoriety which carries an author into the
ports of a thousand little theatres all over
the world and makes him an international
figure.
What is the “something new” that has
been Pirandello’s contribution to the
drama? Most people who saw “Six Char-
acters in Search of an Author” found origi-
nality in the method, the play that was
built up within the framework of another
play. But this idea is hardly new in
itself. From “Hamlet” to “Fanny’s First
Play,” it has been frequently used by
dramatists, either for the Sake of pure
piquancy or else to throw the drama fur-
ther back and so deepen the perspective,
as Conrad does in his novels. To be sure,
Pirandello has deepened the perspective
still more b} r adding other factors—the
originals of the characters in the play who
step from the audience to take part in
the drama—but that is merely an extension.-
Sojne of his other devices are equally old-
fashioned. The raisonneur who helps the
author along with his exposition (Cayley
Drummle, in “The Second Mrs. Tan-
queray,” is a bad example) has been nearly
banished from the modern play, but Piran-
dello brings him unblushingly to life
again. He cannot do without such exposi-
tors as Nota, in “Naked,” and Diego, in
“Each in His Own W T ay,” and uses them
freely.
No, the originality of Pirandello has
very little to do with his method, though
he is a clever enough craftsman to use
every device that has ever been found
handy in the theatre. What is really novel
in him is the dazzling way he plays with
illusion and reality, transposing them or
identifying one with the other. There is
no more overworked word in our criticism
of books or plays than “reality.” It is one
of our highest terms of praise, and yet no
one attempts to define its exact relation
to the world of art. Everyone agrees as to
what reality is in life, of course. It lies
in the physical presence of people, in the
way they talk, act and move through a
visible world; and the writer tries to cap-
ture it by minute descriptions of faces,
tones of voice, landscapes. His aim is to
create characters that will give a strong
illusion of being living people through the
consistency and vividness with which they
talk and act; but he is never in doubt that
his models are real and his own characters
an illusion.
Along comes Pirandello and jumbles the
two worlds together. Life is not the solid
substance you are copying, he insists; it
is fluid, a continually flowing stream of
consciousness. Take any human being.
What is there that is permanent about
him? The composition of his body is
daily changing; even his affections change;
how much more, then, that fortuitous col-
lection of opinions he calls his view of
life? All his contacts with the world differ
one from another; he does not present the
same surface to any two people. What
you call his fixed character is a snapshot of
him in a particular set of circumstances.
It can only remain really fixed by being
withdrawn from the changing currents of
life and placed on the plane of art. The
characters of fiction have a permanent real-
ity, but any attempt by a human being
.to live incharacter Only ends in his
. creating a mask for himself and maintain-
ing an illusion.
So most of Pirandello’s plays are con-
cerned with people who, by creating masks
for themselves, try to assert their individu-
ality against the warring impulses, emo-
tions, animal instincts, that would -blot
out all their fixed outlines. In “Henry
IV.” the chief character becomes “fixed”
by a fall from a horse at the time he is
acting the part of a mediaeval monarch, and
his friends have to play up to the illusion
that he Teally is the ancient king. But
that is an extreme case. Pirandello’s figures
are : rare]y pathological; they are merely
ordinary human beings whose extreme
(Continued on page 5.)


JL
a
m
uae
Furniture of Beauty and Refinement
unprecedented for Value and Quality
at Anthony Horderns’
The “York”
Jacobean Dining Room Suite
Sv.
n.^
'-ci'o:
>3
The “Universal.” This Bedroom Suite is of
Oak. Wardrobe is 4ft. 6in. with large mirror
and exquisite carved panels. Fittings include
hat-shelf and hanging-rod. 3ft. 6in. Dressing
Table features a large mirror, a pleasing
shaped top and three drawers. Pedestal
Boot Cupboard is 2ft. wide and has shaped
top to correspond. Beautifully designed
and excellent workmanship,
the “Universal” is excellent _ _ , .
value at £26/lo|-
The “Concord” Bedroom Suite
The “York” Jacobean Dining Room Suite
in Oak of rich antique finish. 6ft. Sideboard
has 3 drawers and 2 cupboards tastefully
panelled with carved headings. The low
back is similarly treated with the addition
of fretwork, which is enriched 1 1 f\l
with bosses. Price .. . dL& 1 / lU|*
Circular Dining Table, 4ft., which will
extend to 6ft. with 2 spare aproned leaves.
Rich rope edging and fitted ~ ~ al+r\ I
with telescopic screw. Price ©L I~r /1 Uj ■
8-Piece Dining Suite, 6 dining and 2 carver
chairs. Detachable seats beautifully uphol-
stered in Fabrikoid. i *
Price £2l/10/-
Service Waggon, with loose tray fitted with
SS inBhandl “:. f3llB/6
The “ Universal ” Bedroom Suite
m
m
Ifj
ssagJSg
The “Concord” Bedroom Suite is one of
Anthony Horderns’ latest designs. The
Wardrobe is 5 ft. wide, with a large mirror,
and neatly carved swags on either wooden
door. Two-thirds is devoted to hanging
space and hat shelf; one-third to sliding
trays. The 3ft. 6in. Dressing Table has a
wide landscape mirror. Pedestal Cupboard
has one drawer. In Figured Oak. All
panelled ends and fitted with brass handles.
An exceedingly handsome Suite, strongly
made and built for service. _ ,
Price ... £29/10-
ANTHONY HORDERN & Sons Limited.
Postal Address:
Box 2712 C G.P.O.
BRICKFIELD HILL. SYDNEY.


HUDSON
ESSEX
Are Now IOX
Australian Built
This Adds a Further Great Price Advantage
to These Already Outstanding Values
While Insuring the Same High Quality
in Materials and Manufacture
Now 7Q % Australian-built, Hudson and Essex
more than ever represent that leadership of value
which gave their long leadership of sales.
The collaboration of Australian and American
efficiency in building these products changes the
relative values of all automobiles in this market.
The low price you now pay for Hudson or for
Essex by no means expresses the high degree of
performance, reliability and distinction these cars
afford.
For under this combination of resources, American
and Australian industry has achieved manufac-
turing economies that no other builder for the
Australian market shares. It assures a value
position above all comparison through this pro
gramme which has required years to organise,
bringing together the material resources, executive
ability and industrial skill of the two continents.
Consider the outstanding position Hudson and
Essex values held under the former regime, before
these exclusive economies multiplied their advan-
tage. And now compare these 70 % Australian-
built cars —the Essex Touring at £239, the Essex
Coach at £299, and the Hudson Touring at £399
—with any car on the market within £3O of their
prices.
To-day you get the finest Hudson-Essex cars in
material, quality and workmanship. In both you
get the advantages in performance, smoothness
and long car life of the famous Super-Six principle
on which more than 900,000 motors have been
built.
Priced the
Lowest in History
Essex Touring - £239
Essex Coach £299
Hudson Touring £399
Any comparison will satisfy you
that such automobile values were
never before offered.
Also on Display—
Essex Sedan, £345.
Hudson Coach, £465.
Hudson Brougham, £525.
Hudson 7-Pass. Sedan, £560.
Prices some points slightly higher.
THE HUDSON MOTOR CAR COMPANY, Detroit, Michigan, U.S.A.
LEADER MOTORS, LTD.,
415 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
R. C. HEATHORN & CO., LTD.,
Hobart and Launceston.
DALGETY & CO., LTD.,
Phillip Street, Sydney.
MOTORS, LIMITED,
Flinders Street, Adelaide.
SEAL’S MOTORS PTY., LTD.,
Exhibition Street, Melbourne.
AUTOS, LTD.,
Hay Street. Perth-


Travel in Luxury by
ORIENT LINE
The three new 20,000-ton Liners and the
fourth now building are fitted with more single-
berth cabins than any other vessels afloat.
Their vast decks for recreation and exercise,
their palatial public rooms and their excellent
cabin accommodation, ensure a very comfort-
able and enjoyable voyage.
Write for Illustrated Literature,
2,4, 6 SPRING STREET, SYDNEY.
Branches and Agencies throughout Australia and New Zealand,
desire for individuality has led them to
adopt some rigid conception of themselves,
as in the everyday world, the average busi-
ness man plays at being Napoleon in the
presence of his typist.
The underlying metaphysic is subtle and
not free from sophistry, but what a base
for a writer of ironic comedy! Comedy
lias always depended on those slight con-
tradictions that everyone recognises in
character—the lion-tamer proving a lamb
in conflict with his wife, and the loud-
voiced democrat showing as a snob when
a windfall places him among the bourgeois.
Pirandello, by penetrating a little deeper
into life, has extended the range of these
contradictions extraordinarily. And his
comedy is most intriguing when it does not
deal with people ostensibly comic, but
when it reveals solemn, intellectual people
like the Marquis Fabio in “The Pleasure of
Honesty” being swept away from their
illusive conceptions of their own char-
acters by the stream of life.
Too much has been written about Piran-
dello’s philosophy, as if it were the most
important thing about him. There is a
type of reader who darts at epigrams in a
play, or formal statements about life in
a novel, as if they were sixpences in a
Christmas pudding. They want short-cuts
to wisdom. But the great writers all know-
more about life than they can put into
their formal statements. It comes out of
them unconsciously when they are occu-
pied with creative work and their vision
is at its keenest. A deeper sense of life
is embedded in “War and Peace” than in
Tolstoi’s essays, and Shakspeare’s view of
the universe was probably a good deal nar-
rower than Hamlet’s.
So Pirandello is richer and more lively
as a dramatist than heavy talk about his
metaphysic might make him seem. If
he lacks anything it is that indefinable
binding substance we call poetry, and he
comes near it by the moods of mystery
his changing characters create.
VANCE PALMER.
What is an Ode?
A reader of English verse, having before
him a number of the most famous poems
bearing the title “Ode,” might well be
puzzled by their variety of form and
method. Milton’s famous “Ode on the
Nativity” runs in even stanzas of peculiar
shape, with an introduction in equally even
stanzas. Dryden’s “Ode on St. Cecilia’s
Day”—generally known as “Alexander’s
Feast”—is built up of irregular masses of
rhythmic rhyming lines of varying length.
Tennyson’s “Ode on the Death of the Duke
of Wellington” may be described in the
same way, while Gray’s “Ode on a Distant
Prospect of Eton College” is formed in
stanzas following a rhyme scheme with an
absolute regularity which yet suggests
something of irregularity and freedom. The
three best-known odes of Keats are in
even stanzas, while his fragment of an “Ode
to Maia” appears as if the intention had
been to continue with a total disregard of
regular shape.
A hundred other famous instances might
be cited to show that as far as form is
concerned the ode in English is governed
by no strict laws. Commonly it is defined
as a poem intended to be sung, but it is
hard to feel that there was any such inten-
tion in the mind of the writer of the “Ode
on the Intimations of Immortality” or of
Coleridge when he threw his soul into the
“Ode to France.” If the possibility of being
set to music is its main quality, it is rea-
sonable to ask in what it differs from other
poems which are simply labelled “song.”
The answer would seem to be that the ode
is intended for a loftier setting. Something
more exalted and dignified is demanded of
verse which carries the title. It bears very
much the relation to other lyrics which an
epic bears to a narrative poem. Some length
and expansiveness are also almost neces-
sary to the development of such work.
Theodore Watts is probably close to the
mark when he says: “Enthusiasm is, in the
nature of things, the very basis of the ode;
for the ode is a monodrama, the actor in
which is the poet himself.” Accepting that
as an approach to definition, it is still to be
admitted that it is very vague; for the
same description applies to thousands of
fine lyrics which could never be called odes.
To regard an ode as a poetic address to
some person or object which maintains
throughout the high levels of feeling and
thought, taking all liberties, save that of
lowering the lofty tone, to attain its object,
is to be on fairly safe ground. The thing
is lawless and, in a very wide field, must
be allowed to have its own way; but it
must keep soaring. It is far too tall to
dance gracefully, unless it has a universe
for its gyrations, and it cannot walk or
creep. Still, anyone who writes a fine-
enough poem and calls it an ode will be un-
likely to have his title challenged.
DAVID MCKEE WRIGHT.
The Unwanted Book
Has there in recent years been a marked
increase in the production of books? The
casual observer strolling the city streets and
making his deduction from the row after
row of novels in crudely-colored jackets
that strike fiercely at his eyes would say
“Yes.” But according to that excellent
authority, Stanley Unwin, of the publishing
firm of George Allen and Unwin, who has
in a recent work declared The Truth About
Publishing, the facts are to the contrary.
Fewer books were born during the five years
ending December 31, 1923, than during the
five years ending December 31, 1913, the
periods before and after the war. Even
in 1923 fewer new books were issued than
in 1913. For 1923-24 Britain, France and the
U.S.A. showed comparatively small advances,
none exceeding 250 vols. Germany showed
a falling-off of 2800 vols., which was more
than counterbalanced by the increase of
2888 vols. in Japan. Spain and Czecho-
slovakia look as though they were compet-
ing in a race for the vanishing book As
Mr. Unwin points out, these figures are
made more significant by the fact that in
recent years a quite vast amount of litera-
ture has been published on entire 1 } 7 new
scientific and technical subjects, such as
relativity and wireless.
Mr. Unwin’s figures include, and in some
instances in quite disproportionate num-
bers, the little unwanteds. Into this
class fall books which are published
“on commission” and they enter into
it in quite large numbers. They com-
prise for the greater part novels floated
on the book market to gratify the personal
vanity of authors who, having failed to
find a publisher with sufficient courage to
take the expensive risk of launching their
paper boats on either the basis of a straight-
out purchase or the payment of royalty on
sales, make the. perilous venture themselves.
In a contract of this kind, the author
assumes entire liability for the cost of pro-
duction and advertisement, the publisher
being called upon to put his organisation
for production and distribution at the
author’s disposal in consideration of a lump
sum and a commission on sales. In such
cases the publisher is entitled to the exclus-
ive sale in the territory he is expected to
cover for a specified period of time, but
to no other rights. The balance of rights
as well as the stock remain vested in the
author.
The ambitious young lady who enters
into a “commission” agreement will require
to bring all her business faculties into play
if she is to avoid burning her ink-soiled
fingers. She is the piper who calls the tune,
but very frequently the tune is not at all
the one she had in mind. It was probably
contracts of this kind that Miss Corelli had
in view when she likened the publisher to
Barabbas, for no form of agreement has
been more prolific of disputes and conten-
tions than publication on commission. Some
publishing firms refuse to handle books on
these terms, and others accept no more
than a small fraction of those offered. With
firms of no particular reputation the posi-
tion is different, and in some cases the
reference to Barabbas may not be uncalled
for. “Authors,” says Mr. Unwin, “would
be well advised to take as much care in
choosing a publisher as they would exer-
cise in selecting a solicitor or a doctor —
no wise man would choose either on the
score of cheapness.”
These are the further words of wisdom of
an experienced man: “It should be obvi-
ous that if a publisher is unwilling to
assume the responsibility for financing any
particular venture, he is doubtful of its
commercial prospects. No author, there-
fore, should step in and take the risk .in
such circumstances, unless he is willing to
lose a substantial part of his outlay. The
publisher who shows any sign of wanting
authors to provide him with capital is
XU'obably one to be avoided.” There are
certain obvious exceptions to the rule of
never publishing at one’s own expense.
Such, for example, is the case of the pro-
fessional man to whom the fact that a book
has been published under his name—it may
be a textbook —gives him a distinction
which is an asset. But as a generalisation
the rule stands good.
Not so many years ago the task of find-
ing a publisher for even a marketable novel
was sufficient to break the heart of a stoic.
The author, convinced of the value of his
lambkin, had to cart it from publishing-
house to publishing-house; and often its
most piteous bleatings had no effect upon
the stony hearts of the publishers’ readers.
After months of circulation, in which the
MS. became soiled and dog-eared, witness-
ing to its numerous peregrinations, it might
at last find a home—or the author, sick
of the whole business, would consign it to
an incinerator. Nowadays, the author’s
agent comes to his rescue. There are, of
course, agents and agents, but in the case
of a well-accredited member of the class, the
commission he takes is well earned, and in
the case of the oversea author he is a boon
and a blessing. At the back of all stands
now that powerful body which owes its
inception to Walter Besant. It is the
Authors' Society, which will lift the burden
of finding a publisher for anything worthy
of publication from the shoulders of the
untried man.
T.C.
Novels Worth Reading
This list has been compiled by a com-
mittee nominated by the Associated Book-
sellers of Australia and Maoriland as a guide
to new fiction of merit:—
'Books of Literary Merit. —Four O’Clock
(stories), by Mary Borden; Daphne Adeane,
by Maurice Baring; Summer Storm, by
Frank Swinnerton ; Galahad, by John Ersk-
ine. .
Books for Popular Reading.— Doomsday,
by Warwick Deeping; Sir Percy Hits Back,
by Baroness Orczy: These Old Shades, by
Georgette Heyer: Slow Burgess, by C. A.
Seltzer; Behind the Fog, by H. N. Bashfield :
Pharisees and Publicans, by E. F. Benson ;
The Fortunes of Hugo, by Denis Mackail;
Secret Harbour, by Stewart Edward White :
The Stronger Hand, by John Goodwin : The
Kingdom, by Frank H. Shaw; The Devil’s
Jest, by Elizabeth Oarfrae; An Old Man’s
Folly, by Floyd Dell.
A Satchel of Books
Moteley’s Concession, by C. Nina Boyle
(Allen and Unwin). A picturesque and
exciting novel.
And Then Pace to Face, by Susan Ertz
(Fisher Unwin). A volume of short stories
by the author of “Madam Claire.” The creepy
first story which gives the book its title is
not an index to the contents, which include
many sketches written in lighter vein.
Love’s Echo, by Mrs. Fred Reynolds (John
Lane). “ ‘lt seems to me,’ said Aspen, with
sudden wisdom, ‘the husbands that die young
are the only ones that are altogether success-
ful.’ ” A story of more than average merit,
but with an effect of striving after smart
dialogue.
Benvenuto Cellini. A recent addition to
“The World’s Classics” issued by the Oxford
University Press. It is a revised text with
many commonly expurgated passages re-
stored —all showing Benvenuto as a cheerful
rascal without a rag of principle to cover
his merry soul.
The Great Days of Versailles, by G. F.
Bradby (Ernest Bonn). An account of the
Court of Louis XIV., his Ministers and his
many mistresses. The author does not raise
the work to the dignity of history, but
attempts to reconstruct from familiar
materials a picture of Court life in the
later years of the king’s reign.
The Queen of Seven Swords, by G. K.
Chesterton (Sheed and Ward) :
“And men looked up at the woman made
for the morning
When the stars were young,
For whom, more rude than a beggar’s rhyme
in the gutter,
These songs are sung.”
Such is Mr. Chesterton’s own appraisement
of this volume of verse; but, then. G.K.C.
has the wisdom of the serpent in disarming
criticism. The Seven Champions of Christen-
dom are used as types of the different
nations whose swords gird the person of
Our Lady. If here and there the verse is
rugged and its edges frayed, there is yet
much to charm the ear. Take “The
Trinkets”
“The standing whirlpool of the stars,
The wheel of all the world,
Is a ring on Our Lady’s finger
With the suns and moons empearled,
With stars for stones to please her
Who sits playing with her rings
With the great heart a woman has
And the love of little things.”
The Road to the Temple, by Susan Glas-
pell (Benn). The romance of an American
brought up on the Mississippi and buried in
Greece beside the Temple of Apollo at
Delphi, as told by his wife. It is the story
of a visionary into which is woven the
affectionate indulgence of a wife who might
have served her spouse better by rousing him
to some appreciation of the practical duties
of life.
Johnson’s Rassclds (J. M. Dent). This
reprint of the eighteenth-century English
classic, which in these days is more fre-
quently referred to than read, has all that a
preface by Mr. Chesterton, some excellent
woodcuts and an attractive format can do
to give it a breath of new life. “Rasselas”
was the nearest Johnson ever came to
writing a novel. He intended it to be a
novel, and produced instead a sort of philo-
sophical satire in which all the little fish
talk like whales.
The Making of Modern Journalism, by
Harold Herd (Allen and Unwin). The author
attributes the change of method which, begin-
ning at the close of last century, has revolu-
tionised the English newspaper as mainly the
work of three men—Lord Northcliffe, YV. T.
Stead and Sir George Newnes. Mr. Herd
claims for modern English popular journal-
ism that it is essentially a native product
and not an adaptation of the American form.
An essential difference between the two is
that, whereas on the other side of the Atlan-
tic size is worshipped in newspapers as in
all else, the keynote of the British news-
sheet is compactness. In one respect, how-
ever, American journalism has had a distinct
influence on the modern British paper—in
the exploiting of the human interest in the
news. The book gives a bright and chatty
account of the men who shook Fleet-street
out of the stodgy condition into which
journalism had lapsed during the greater
part of the Victorian reign.
Luigi Pirandello, by Walter Starkie (J.
M. Dent). “What the word Shavian means
to the English theatre the word Pirandellian
means to the Italian.” But whereas Shaw
may be described as “a social preacher
dressed up as a mountebank,” Pirandello has
no pose whatever; he has no message for
humanity and invents no slogans of pro-
gress. He runs amok to all the conventions
of the theatre. “When Pirandello has set
on the stage his incredible characters, with
their far-fetched situations, he delights in
resolving the problems in accordance with all
his brilliant metaphysical devices.” His char-
acters, instead of being various and manifold,
appear to be one and the same character
“set amid conditions that are ever different
and yet identical.” The author submits liis
book as an attempt to reconstruct this in-
teresting literary personality from the mass
of his published works.
Truth, a Path to Justice and Reconcilia-
tion, by “Verax” (Cecil Palmer). This book,
its author asserts, is primarily intended for
the English-speaking nations, in order to
create a better feeling and understanding
between them and the Germans, as, in his
opinion, it is upon such an understanding
the future peace of the world will greatly
depend. “Yerax,” whose real name is prob-
ably Von Swogglestein, or something like
that, essays a review of the circumstances
leading up to the Great War, and a survey
of the condition of affairs which ensued after
the signing of the Treaty of Versailles. “Foul
and lying war propaganda,” he shouts, “has
accused the German Army and people of
horrible atrocities which have not been
proved.” As a set off, lie publishes “a small
part of the war crimes with which the allied
nations were charged by the German Govern-
ment.” How far “Verax” sees the truth
through German spectacles under the judicial
wig the reader, if any, must determine for
himself.


}>
f l
-as*, ‘
pßif
SHEARING SHEDS
STABLES
FLOORS FOR WOOLSHEDS
FENCING DROPPERS
PLANS AND PR/CES FREE
GLOBE TIMBERS 8
FLINDERS ST ADELAIDE, S.A.
The Wonderful “Lock-Grip” Wire Strainer
iLiimiv
LOCK-CRIP PATN9l6i(yi6 R.( Du
Simple, Powerful, Rapid.
TIME, MONEY AND ENERGY SAVED.
Here is a tool that absolutely eclipses anything
invented for the straining of fencing wires.
It saves hours on a job. Joins, tightens and
repairs with the utmost ease. Its enormous
concentrated power makes light of any fencing
work —the hardest tensile wire cannot slip
through the “Lock-Grip.”
Weighs only 41b., measures 14 inches. It can
be carried in your pocket, yet it will pull your
motor-car out of a bog.
Get one and test it—there’s no risk. Failure
or breakage impossible. Thousands sold—
everyone delighted.
Price 30/- each. Victorian postage, 1/6:
Interstate, 2/8 (plus exchange).
Obtainable everywhere, or write the Agents:—
S. COHEN, SONS & CO. PTY., LTD.,
Hardware Merchants,
262 Queen Street, MELBOURNE.
__AgeWts wanted where not represented.
ř
IS
r
These new models are specially recommended
on account of their solid construction, powerful
tone and perfect scale.
The Regal in brown mahogany, finished
with inlaid spruce top, brass machine head.
Complete in Case
( Freight Free)
Other models from 50/- to £6
55/-
Descriptive Catalogue on application.
OBTAINABLE FROM ANY MUSIC.DEALER
OR DIRECT FROM
A.P. SYKES
Z7£ Lit. Collins St
cMelbourne.
When order in q pleare mention Ihir baher.
W« - ■—■ ■«'. 1 pasa«saa»m»aM
A ROYAL
'm.
All Good
Hotels and
1 obacconists,
6d.
each. J
25
12/6
50, 25/9
100, 46/-
Post paid to
any address.
Sampler Box
containing two
cigars, Is. Post
free.
Craig# Aitken
6548 Georrge Street,
Sydney,
Distributors forClufc
Roil Cijfar Factory.
Foot ease!
No tightness, no discomfort
anywhere with Abbey Black
Velour Calf Oxford Shoes.
They’re smart looking! The
photograph proves that. The
uppers are made of supple
leather, handsomely finished.
They fit snugly at ankle and in-
step. The soles are flexible but
tough. And Abbey Shoes are
noted for their durability.
No difficulty about the right
measure. These shoes are made
in full and half -sizes—each in
three fittings, narrow, medium
and wide.
Order by Post
Price 39/6 per pair. Specify
required width when ordering.
ABBEY
Established over 80 years,
313 George St. & 224 Pitt St.,
SYDNEY.
1.. 14.
JOHNSTONES
TUTOR
EASIEST AND BEST.
Price 3/-; posted 3/3.
All Music Sellers, or
MELBOURNE SYDNEY ADELAIDE.
BIRKIYRE'S CLOTH
Regd. Trade-mark.
The best waterproof for motor-car
hoods, tarpaulins, horse and cow
rugs, etc. Canvas of all kinds, cot-
ton ducks and hessians, seaming,
bagging and shop twine.
Fishing nets and yarn. Samples
and prices on application.
GOUROCK LTD.
379 Kent Street, Sydney.
Charlotte Street, Brisbane, Q.
460 Flinders Street, Melbourne, Vic.
VARIOUS VERSE
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Questioning.
I have gone out in the great woods where
the trees are very high
Making black shadows under the leaves if
a man would look for the sky.
There is no star in the morning, there is
no star at night;
ut I have guessed by the dew-fires that the
moon walks white—
Walks white in the valley and walks wliit<
on the hill,
’Vitli the wind tossing the bracken where
the small waters spill.
There is no yellow of nooning; but tin
green shadows are sweet
All day long in the dead leaves and the
soft moss at; my feet;
Via 1 " " - is a white blossom on long vines
spun
under the bushes that dream's ana
dreams of the sun.
- r -d I look upward and upward; and how
would a man know
■ bother the clouds are sleeping or whether
the winds blow?
I have made a song of the blossom ; I liavi
made a song of the moss ;
I have written of roots growing and the green
ways that cross;
Hut what the stars are thinking and how
God would walk
I have no word to tell me but a small flower
on a stalk.
July the trees growing, only the green
below
And the sound of a man talking can my
heart surely know.
('an the trees that are years tell me, car
the leaves tnat are thoughts find
. acre the long ways are going that turn
and cross and wind?
bey all come up from the valley and they
all go down to the glen ;
i d near and far in the shadows I hear
the voices of men.
'he trees whisper together and they say
“God saith” ;
Hut what does He say to the people who
walk down to death?
N.S.W.
DAVID MCKEE WRIGHT.
The Painted Ship.
The painted bowl bears a painted ship
Adrift on a sapphire sea:
The sunset limns the sails with gold
Of this fairy argosy.
A scarlet shield crowns the high-built poop.
And the decks are mother-of-pearl,
While above the carvcn and fretted prow
Shines the head of a marble girl.
The captain wears a long curled wig
And his suit is slashed with flame;
let he bears bis sword with a jaunty air,
Though his gait be a trifle lame.
1 >evils of fellows” —the only words
For the ship’s gay company,
Who show no fear of Heaven or Hell
As they plough their painted sea.
I wish I could take a boat like this
And sail o’er the outer bar,
tluided alone by a magic sun
Or some white and witching star.
ly palm-clad isles with their scented breeze.
Where the belts of coral glow,
And the waters shade through beryl and jade
To cobalt and indigo.
'lours of stress and hours of calm.
Nights when the light dice glance,
The clang of the silver drinking-cups
And the figures of old romance.
While perchance sometimes in the twilight
grey,
Like ghosts, would flutter past
’•reat battle galleons with a tattered flag
Nailed to each tapering mast.
Those were the restless, roving days
When a thousand feuds were rife, '
And a rapier twist or a subtle wrist
Might counter the game of life.
Here, to-night, in the sheltered room,
With each quiet and ordered thing,
The painted bowl and its painted ship
Breathe a gay adventuring.
QUEENSLAND.
A. GORE-JONES.
God’s Out of Doors.
I know a little secret place
Where rata buds unfold.
And a brown stream tinkles under
The kowhai’s cloth o’ sold;
But I must turn to baking
And the labor of the churn,
Not sunny hillside places,
Nor shady dells of fern.
From out the bent old willow
A bird calls high and sweet;
Cool ways along the river
Invite my aching feet;
They’d go a-vagabonding
To where my heart explores—
The while my hands clean windows
And polish knives and floors.
Oh. men malm churns and windows
And ovens, knives and floors:
But hill and stream and bird are God’s,
For He made all out-doors.
M.L.
PHYLLIS GAVIN.
Icarus.
Around the bodv of Icarus, fallen dead,
Gathered the country folk with peering
eyes,
Scorning the unroughened hands, the youthful
head
That had outdared the agony of the skies.
They had no pity for the wild dismay
That rested like a cloud upon his face,
Nor could they see the grace
That still shone from his strong frame’s dis-
array.
The old man said, “Was there not work
enough
Upon the old brown earth with plough and
spade?
Are not the tasks and burdens many and
rough
Before the harvest in the barn is laid?
Why should he thus affront the wrath of
Jove,
Storming his lonely battlements on high?
Why should be wish to fly?
Are there not ships and steeds for those that
rove?”
The maiden frowned, “Was human love too
slight
That he must seek some goddess in the
clouds ?
Why in the cold blue sky should he delight
When the warm earth has hearths and
friends and crowds
Whose work and chatter fill the joyous day?
Those strong, brown arms could have up-
held a home—
What needed he to roam?
What waste of life and love in this mere
clay!”
They went, but, eager-eyed, a tall youth
came,
“Honor to pioneers! To you who first
j Dared face the terror of the heidit and
flame
And break the ban of mystery, rehearsed
Through many an age by coward and king
! and priest!
Many shall follow thee towards the light.
Heroes, to whom the nieht
And sloth are worst of ills, but death the
j least.”
N.S.W.
R. G. HENDERSON.
Apology.
P>e still, O singing woman, with your lift!:
song-caresses,
With your singing joys and sorrows, ami
your fanciful distresses.
Past the ocean there is war,
There is famine —aye, and nearer,
There is hunger at your door!
Be still, O singing woman, or be shamed
for evermore.
Be still, 0 singing woman! Have you no
hands for healing,
Have your eyes no pause for pity, has your
heart no room for feeling?
Past the ocean there is pain;
There are nations breaking, broken.
They are crying out in vain—
Be still, 0 singing woman; you must not
sing again !
Oh the little birds are singing in the tree-
tops in the morning.
And the flowers are gay in springtime, and
you give them not your scorning.
Past the ocean there is fear.
Here perchance my sorrow waits me,
But my joy is very near,
And my heart goes singing, singing, with a
song you cannot hear.
Though she has strong hands for serving,
and her feet are very willing.
Give to- her a space for singing, all her
happiness fulfilling.
Past the ocean there is ill;
There are shadows, nearer, nearer,
And the coming night is chill.
But the sad world goes more sadly with the
singing women still.
W. A.
ETHEL DAVIES.
Brown and I.
;Brown and I wo were boys together;
Brown was a lad that they could not rule —
Could not fetter, or bind, or tether;
Brown and I we were mates at school:
Brown, the lad with the sea-winds singing
Low in liis ears through the day’s routine,
The rolling surf on the sandspits ringing,
The deep-sea gales and the breakers green.
Cloud-capped ranges with waters falling.
Jungles and forests and lands of snow
These in the soul of him always calling.
How could he other than one day go?
Brown went out in the world's wide spaces.
Hither and thither, and here and there,
Fresh scenes fronting and fresh new faces,
Taking his chance in the do and dare.
Eyes for the wide horizons ever.
Seas and skies, and women and men,
Spurning the “don’t,” the “can’t,” the
“never,”
The jargon of street and shop and den.
Ilis the zest and the joy of rising
Each new morn upon something strange,
His the glory of realising
Life to the fullest in change and range.
Staunch to his star for worse or better.
Ah. richer his life than mine has been—
Brown, the boy that they could not fetter.
Could not imprison in dull routine!
QUEENSLAND.
FRANCIS KENNA.


J]
r
a to
f 1
Rexona Girls are beautiful girls. To be
beautiful you must have a good complexion
and bright, fresh, clear skin. This is what
Rexona Soap does for its devotees.
No matter if your features are irregular, beauty
is not denied you, for every woman can have
a good complexion if she but cares for her
skin by using Rexona Soap. Rexona Soap is
the ready aid to those in search of skin health
and beauty. Everything that is necessary for
overcoming complexion ills is combined in its
generous creamy lather. Rexona Soap refreshes
and invigorates at the same time, removes the
tendency to blotches, sallowness, oiliness or
roughness of the skin. No matter how particu -
lar you may be, Rexona Soap is sure to satisfy
you, for it is the aristocrat of soaps, pure and
free from harmful dry chemicals. It is a facial
soap, specially suitable for the most delicate
skin.
Rexona Soap has no heavy perfume, only the
delightful Rexona fragrance. It lathers freely,
cleanses perfectly, and leaves the face and hair
in the pink of condition.
It
m
MKE/J * '•& &fmf;
W, Wm
■K>
H
f
■
Wmmmm
m
%
ii
■
■ >
i
A
I
\
«
<5?
>s^
MISS DOKIS
HENDERSON,
the pretty Aus-
tralian Pianist,
who recently re-
turned f r o m
Hollywood, and
who appeared at
the Tivoli Theatre
Sydney with Mills
Nancy Fair, is a
Rexona Girl. She
writes: “I find
Rexona Soap used
regularly enhances
the beauty of the
complexion and
makes the hair
soft and glossy.'’
\ T ms NELLE DEAN, a Beautiful Rexona Girl, who played Lucille in the
musical comedy “No, No, Nanette!” at His Majesty’s Theatre, Brisbane,
writes “Having used Rexona Soap for some time past, I wish to express
my appreciation of its merits in keeping the skin and hair in perfect
condition.”
'or
Health ar^§eaidij


jrf'
‘ J
wm
m
*««>»
»s
V■ :.r% /h
" .1
MM!
■l
«•:
PH
m
mm
» ::
■ : ■ :
J—
-1
l«
ki
u
k
■ I
■
■B
'. v l, w
i
s»
m
M^,_.
I •, -•":
IMS
' :• '
■
d /JgSfP 1 <*s?»
W '■*«§!
mmM
*v>
f


The Bulletin
Vol. 48 —No. 2459.
March 31, 1927.
THE VISITORS.
“The Duke and Duchess of York arrived in Australia on Saturday.”
DIGGER BILL: “Jolly glad to see you—we’re cobbers with your dad and your brother. Sit down and have a pitch while the billy boils.”


The Bulletin
THE NATIONAL AUSTRALIAN NEWSPAPER
“Australia lor the White Alan.”
Printed and published by William Macleod, of
Musgrave and .McLeod Streets, Mosman, tor i* l *
Bulletin Newspaper Co., Ltd., at the Office of the
Co., 214 George Street, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia.
Meluourne Office: 154-162 Flinders Street.
London Office: No. 1 IVardour Street (near Picca-
dilly Circus), W.l.
PUBLISHED ONCE A WEEK.
TERMS TO SUBSCRIBERS
(In Advance only).
Posted to ant address in Australasia, weekly:
1,2 months, £1 J/s.; 6 months, l‘2s. b id.; <1 months, Js.
2'o any address Overseas: 12 months, A I 10s.; 0
months, 15s. (id.; 3 months, 3s.
Cheques, drafts, etc., which should he crossed, ana
all Business Communications to be addressed to the
Manager.
Special Notice.
All correspondence to be addressed to Box 2521 8.8.,
0.P.0., Sydney.
Insufficiently stamped letters are liable to oe
refused
The contents of this paper are copyright by the
publishers. The right to reproduce or translate any
part of the contents of this number is hereby expressly
reserved by the publishers.
The liditor will carefully read and, where practic-
able, acknowledge in the “Correspondence” column
all contributions submitted, whether in the form of
Political, Social or other Articles, T erse, Short Tales
or Sketches (those dealing with Australian subjects
and not exceeding two columns in length, or, say,
3000 words, are specially acceptable). Paragraphs,
Letters or Newspaper Clippings. All communications
will be regarded as strictly confidential.
The Bulletin will return all unsuitable MS. when
the address is specified and stamps are enclosed. But
no MS. will be returned or preserved unless these
conditions are observed. When MS. is forwarded
without stamps for return it will be understood that
the copy is to be destroyed if not acceptable. Per-
sonal applications for return of MS. cannot receive
attention. Further. The Bulletin desires those
sending MS. to distinctly understand that it is not.
responsible for the preservation or transmission of MS.
To Amateurs in Black and White.
Anyone supplying to The Bulletin original
humorous or other topical drawings in line or wash,
of sufficient merit and interest and adapted for
direct reproduction, or any interesting photograph
illustrative of a current event will be paid for same
on. acceptance. Any picture containing a good idea
but unfitted for direct reproduction —i.e., any picture
which has to be re-drawn■ —will be paid for as a
suggestion only. The conditions under which such
artistic contributions will be received are those
applying to M.S.
To Travellers Abroad.
“The Bulletin’s” representative in London is
JL. St. C. Grondona, No. 1 Wardour Street
(near IMccadilly Circus), W.l. Copies of
“The Bulletin” can be obtained from him or
the bookstall in the Main Hall at Australia
House. A Iso from Messrs. Gordon and Gotch, 55-
5'J Farringdon Street, London, E.C.I/.; and IF. Ilaw-
son and Sons, Cannon House, Breams Buildings,
London, E.C.1,.; E. T. Hole, Holerth Satire Ser-
vice, lib Fleet Street, London E.C.; “The British
Australian and New Zealander,” hH-17 Australia
House, Strand, London, 1F.C.2; F. Algar, 58 Grace-
church Street, London, E C. 3.
South Africa. —The Central News Agency, Cape-
town, Durban and Johannesburg; Dawson and Son,
Capetown and Johannesburg; Havana House, Durban;
Bhodesia News Agency. Salisbury; Benoni News
Agency, Benoni; Handel House, Kimberley; and
others.
Canada. — G. S. Forsyth and Co., HI Hastings
Street, Vancouver, II.C.
U.S.A. — Chicago: J. Roland Kay Co., 161 East
Erie Street, N. Michigan Boulevarde; Post Office
News Co., 33 West Monroe Street, Chicago. New
York: Brentano’s, sth Avenue and 25th Street, New
York City: Schultz Neivs Agency. S.E. Corner 6th
Avenue and Ji2nd Street, New York City; Hotaling’s
News Agency, 203 West 1/lst Street, New York City.
Washington: Liberty News Co., Seattle, Washington;
Wheatley Neivs Co., 501/ Market Street. San Francisco;
Wallace, The New Orleans News Man. 105 Royal
Street, New Orleans, La.; The Wide World News Stand,
5/itlt South Main Street, Los Angeles, Cal.
Egypt. — Jacques. Horn and Co., the Colonial
Book and News Stores. Port Said, Egypt.
Honu Kong. —Brewer and Co., 696 Pedder Street,
Hong Kong.
China. —Brewer and Co., 31 Nanking Road.
Shanghai, China.
Ceylon. — T. L. Ve Silva, 39 Chatham Street,
Colombo.
Papua. —Whitten Bros., Samarai and Port Moresby.
Fiji.— A. Barker. Suva : Harry Gardiner, Metropole
Hairdressing Saloon, Suva.
Overseas Advertising Representatives.
London. — L. St. C. Grondona, No. 1 Wardour
Street (near Piccadilly Circus), W. 1.; Gordon and
Gotch, 75-79 Farringdon Street. London, E.C.b.
TT.S.A. — J. Roland Kay Co.. 161 East Erie Street,
N. Michigan Boulevarde. Chicago.
Postage Rates.
Single copies of The Bulletin (registered as a
newspaper): — Commonwealth, New- Zealand and Fiji:
lOoz., Id. United Kingdom: 1/oz. to lOoz., lid.; each
additional l/oz.. Id. All Sea Route: 160 z.. lid.
British Possessions and U.S.A.: l/oz. or part thereof,
Id. Elsewhere. 20z., Id.
s^S&xxlleZzm,,
THURSDAY, MARCH 31, 1927.
AUSTRALIAN FINANCE: NEXT?
The Federal Parliament having passed the
bill to abolish the per capita payments to
the States, and the financial relations of
Commonwealth and States being thus in
the melting-pot, whatever that hot and
hackneyed vehicle may be, it might be as
well to go the whole hog, if we can discover
what that animal is. An ideal arrange-
ment would be the transfer by the States to
the Commonwealth of their entire external
debts, together with the external debts of
municipalities within their jurisdiction, and
their absolute surrender of the right to incur
external liabilities in the future. Once the
transfer was fixed up the rest of the bargain
would not entail hardship on the States, as
no need for outside money would remain
unless it was wanted for dishonest purposes.
The Commonwealth might suffer from a
powerful craving for London and New York
loans until it contrived to put the national
house in order, but the minor Govern-
ments would be relieved of their troubles
The circumstance which makes their
foreign loans inevitable now is that exports
consistently fail to equal the national bill
for imports and for “interest and services,”
and very often they fail to equal imports
alone, leaving “interest and services” at
a loose end. While these conditions last
the only way to acquire gold abroad with
which to pay interest in gold abroad is to
borrow gold abroad. It is a disastrous situ-
ation, but still it is the situation. After
the States -had got rid of their outside
difficulties the local paper-money market
should, however, meet all their require-
ments and more. If it was unable to do so
requirements could always be cut down.
•*•***
The megatherium in the path is the re-
markable variation in the size of debts.
Victoria owes some £33 per inhabitant
abroad; Queensland about £77; Westralia
between £lOO and £llO. The interest which
States and municipalities have to meet in
Europe and America is £20,000,000 or more
per annum, and it will be larger than that
before the most rapid kind of transfer can
be arranged. The stoppage of the yearly,
subsidy to the States of 255. per head will
provide the Federal Treasurer with
£8.000.000 towards meeting this. For the
rest it is evident that the States must
surrender the right to collect income-tax
and some other imposts, and that Westralia,
which would be relieved of the biggest
load, must give up its special grants and
doles. The Commonwealth might possibly
help out of its chronic surplus, but the
surplus depends so much on big customs
receipts, based on absurdly large importa-
tions, that it is uncertain. When sufficient
taxation was levied on the flat-rate prin-
ciple to meet the case of the State with
the record liability, there would be a sur-
plus to be returned to the other States; in
the case of Victoria it would be a very
handsome surplus. The States which have
done most of their financing on the local
market, and have bulky annual local respon-
sibilities in consequence, would certainly
find the subsidy, or return of surplus con-
tributions, very useful. Possibly the big
State with the outside burden of over £lOO
for each man, woman and child might sell
some of its superfluous and unoccupied
territory to the Commonwealth at a good
price, and obtain relief in that way. A
constitutional amendment might be neces-
sary to ensure that States, after vacating
a field of taxation, did not return by night
and dishonestly graze therein. Or possibly
a “gentleman’s agreement” would be suffi-
cient.
# * * #
"When the Federal Authority became re-
sponsible for all public liabilities outside
Australia, an unprecedented situation would
be established. A whole new drama would
be staged. The reckless accumulation of
extraneous obligations payable in real money
has supplied the nation with a problem.
When Federal, State and local affairs are
added together, there is need to turn some
30 millions of notes into gold each year, or
to work some miracle of the sort. For lack
of gold production, which is now hardly
worth a mention, the Earle Page of the
hour may pay by sending away sufficient
wheat, butter, wool or other saleable wares.
The business of finding these is distinctly
that of the Government which controls the
tariff and the shipping laws and runs the
remarkable, not to say astounding, Com-
monwealth shipping line. It has outside
debts of its own to manage, and it is logical
that it should take over the rest and make
one miracle of the lot. Supposing the
Federal finance man failed, just like the
State men, he would doubtless follow their
example, and try to sell new lOU’s, so
that he might pay interest on old ones with
the proceeds. About here a complication
might arise. The State Governments
camouflage each new loan by issuing with it
a long list of public “works.” The money
raised in London is vaguely supposed to be
brought here and expended on the works,
though actually that habit is extinct. As
such a camouflage would hardly be possible
to the Federal Treasurer, he might be driven
to think out other means of meeting his
obligations abroad. So far as this paper
knows, there is only one way of doing it
—reducing imports and increasing exports
and thus righting the staggerv “balance of
trade.” Sooner or later it will have to be
done.
THE LONDON REFUGE FOR
ELDERLY POLITICIANS.
When Neville Howse, as Minister of De-
fence a nd Health, accompanied the Prime
Minister to London last year, there was a
eneral expectation that he would be
appointed High Commissioner, in succes-
• ’ T -t u a • Lie
sion to Joseph Cook, if lie decided that his
, ~ , ,', • „ * T
health could stand the rigors of London
life Ag it happe ned, he fell ill, and was
f ar f rom we ll when he returned to Aus-
tralia; so the Government had to alter its
plans and consider the claims of other can-
didates. There is evidence that it medi-
tated the egregious folly of sending Pearce
to London. That gentleman was even con-
gratulated by fellow-Senators on the im-
pending appointment. But Bruce and Page
realised before it was too late that to give
Pearce the job would mean more heavy
weather for their Ministry, which has
emerged from the referendum and State-
grants storms in a rather battered condi -
tion, and they shrank from the prospect,
To the surprise of nearly everyone, they
sent for Granville Ryrie, M.H.R. for War-
ringah (N.S.W.), and when that bluff
Australian got over his astonishment he
agreed to go to London for five years.
Ryrie has served in two wars, ancj dis-
tinguished himself in both. He was for three
years in the N. S. Wales Leg. Assembly
as member for Queanbeyan, and has been
a member of the House of Reps, since 1911,
representing North Sydney till 1922, when
the North Sydney electorate was cut up.
Hughes made him Assistant-Minister of
Defence, with a seat in the Cabinet, and
he held that post for four years, with Bruce-
as a colleague most of the time. But when
the latter went Cabinet-making he left
Ryrie out. It was a severe blow to “the
old Brig.,” but he took it gamely, and,
though previously a devoted follower of
Hughes, publicly rebuked that sore-head
for unsportsmanlike snarling at his suc-
cessor. He refused to join the revolt
against the State Grants Bill; in fact, except
for an occasional grumble, he has given
the Bruce-Pages a steady support for which
they are obviously grateful. As honest
as the sun, and forthright in speech, he gets
on well with most people, even men who
have no use for his politics, which are im-
penitently Tory. A pastoralist and the son
of a pastoralist, he has a thorough know-
ledge of at least one Australian industry,
which is more than Cook and Fisher and
Reid possessed.
* * * *
But, to put it mildly, the member for
Warringah did not shine in Ministerial
office, and he lacks one essential qualifica-
tion for the London billet. He has no head
for business, and it is pre-eminently a job
for a business man. To realise this, it is
only necessary to glance at the High Com-
missioner’s annual report. That for 1925
was spread over 41 pages, of which eight
pages were devoted to the operations of
the Commercial Branch, eight more to a
financial review, four pages (nearly) to the
transactions of the Customs and Supply
branches, three and a half pages to migra-
tion, two and a half to publicity, one and
a half each to the Pacific Cable Board, the
British Empire Exhibition and the Veter-
inary Officer’s work, the remaining para-
graphs coming under the headings of Com-
mercial Office in Paris, Pensions, War
Graves and Memorials, Military, Naval,
Clearing Office and Trustee Branch, British
Trade and Industry, Accommodation, Ad-
ministration and Hospitality. Australians
eminent in business are sent across the
Pacific to represent the Commonwealth in
New York, where their talents are, to a
large extent, wasted. Australia House has,
however, been reserved, all the parties
tacitly consenting, as a refuge for elderly
politicians whom Governments are anxious
to please or to get rid of; and the larger
interests of the country are left out of
account.
THE SCHOOLMASTER.
We schoolmasters shall never be anything
but an imitation profession, poorly paid and
treated with condescending tolerance or un-
disguised contempt, until it becomes a well-
recognised fact that all teachers are persons
who have deliberately set out to become
teachers, and have done their best and
made sacrifices in order to qualify for a
definite career in life.
Anyone at all can become a schoolmaster.
No qualifications of any kind are required.
Doctors, lawyers, dentists, plumbers, even
bottle-ohs, have to produce some kind of
credentials before they can ply their trade.
Not so schoolmasters or schoolmistresses.
It is nobody’s business to inquire into their
qualifications, antecedents, or character;
and some queer birds are in the farmyard.
In a comparatively short experience of nine
years in N. S. Wales, I have come across
several cases of trading on fictitious degrees
even in the Great Public Schools. Whether
these frauds produced forged credentials, or
whether their mere word was accepted by
school authorities, I do not know. The
fact that such a thing could happen at all
shows that something is radically wrong.
In the ranks of the G.P.S. and the Educa-
tion Department there are probably very
few downright crooks with unsavory pasts.
In other schools there may be none. How
many misfits and drifters-in from other
walks of life there may be it is impossible
to say.
If one may generalise, after nearly 30
years’ experience of teaching, it would
appear that, in the departments and the
well-known secondary schools of Australia,
the masters as a body are self-respecting,
well qualified and keen on their work. But
the profession, as such, is undoubtedly
despised, and it is certainly not because
the pay is poor. That is a false point of
view altogether. It is the converse that
is true. The pay is poor because the pro-
fession is despised, and it will continue to
be poor until teaching is put on a level
with other professions. The average teacher
probably receives more pay than the aver-
age clergyman. He certainly gets more
than many a Roman Catholic priest, and
I have yet to hear of anyone who, because
of its poor pay, despises the Roman Catholic
priesthood.
Clergymen, doctors, lawyers, dentists, en-
gineers, all have had to sacrifice time and
money in order to qualify for their pro-
fessions, and the status of each is in pro-
portion to the sacrifice made. Every true
profession has its own quite definitely-,
specified course for qualification. There is
no short-cut or back-door entrance by
which anybody can drift in. Everyone
knows what a doctor is, and when he con-
sults one is quite prepared to pay him a
sum of money that he would never dream
of paying to a herbalist. Behind the doctor
is the guarantee that he spent some years
of his life doing his best to fit himself
for his job, and that he satisfied some im-
partial body that he was qualified. Whether
he is a good doctor is another question
that depends on himself alone. At anv
rate, he has not drifted into the medical
profession after trying other occupations.
Behind the teacher there is no guarantee
of this kind at all, neither in the depart-
ments, norm the Great Public Schools, nor
in any other kind of school. The pay is
consequently on the herbalist basis. In
public estimation we are all lumped to-
gether as “teachers.”
Compulsory registration by itself is no
panacea. Teaching will become a true pro-
fession only when universities recognise it
as such by creating a Faculty of Education
on the same lines as the other Faculties.
This could be done, at any time and with-
out cost to the universities, by a simple
drafting, from existing courses, of a parti-
cular course of study for aspiring school-
masters. Graduates in Education would
then be on exactly the same footing as
graduates in any other Faculty. They only
would be allowed by law to call themselves
“schoolmasters.” Lower grades of teachers,
called by some other name, there would
need to be also, but the “schoolmaster”
would have come into his own.
J. CAMERON.
PLAIN ENGLISH.
The Ma State’s New Tax on Industry.
N. S. Wales Premier Lang's Family En-
dowment Bill has become law, with all its
fundamental errors of statecraft thick upon
it. Surrendering to the claim that the bill
is a humanist measure, and obviously mind-
ful of votes, the Nationalist party has
swallowed the camel of a tax on industry
to benefit wage-earners, while straining
feebly at such gnats as the methods of col-
lecting and applying the tax. The flat basic
wage had few economic merits. It rested
on the unstable foundation of the idea that
wages can be based on something other
than the value of production. But it had
at least the redeeming feature that the
family man was constrained to work harder
and better and increase his skill and use-
fulness in order to discharge his paternal
obligations, while those unable to earn more
than the minimum were discouraged to
some slight extent from propagating exces-
sively large numbers of children likely to
be hereditarily afflicted with the same in-
dustrial disability.
Mr. Lang and his colleagues of Caucus
and Cabinet are not skilful in their methods
of obtaining what they want, but they know
what they want well enough, and on this occa-
sion, with the blessing and co-operation of
Mr. Bavin and Miss Preston Stanley, flier
have come pretty near getting it. The mm
with four children who is at present earn-
ing a pound over the basic wage will find
when his family is “endowed” according to
the Lang recipe that his modest little
advantage over the man at the next bench.
who has the same-sized family, but is con-
tent to earn, or is unable to earn more than,
the basic wage, has, disappeared. That is
precisely what suits Mr. Lang best as a
politician. His political strength, as he i?
very well aware, lies in the ranks of the
bare basic-wage earners. His latest, legis-
lative achievement will bring within his
ambit a considerable number of men with
big families who hitherto, driven by the
spur of necessity, have been able to reach
a higher wages-plane than that prescribed
for the slowest and least skilful worker?.
There is levelling-down as well as drawing-
up involved in “family endowment,” and
whereas the drawing-up is bound to prove
illusory, since it depends on a direct tax on
industry, the levelling-down will remain a
fact.
The political importance of the scheme,
from the Lang standpoint, may be gauged
by the ruthlessness with which other mea-
sures have been set aside in its favor. The
plan for rewarding the martyrs of the 191/
railway strike, making the Railway Com-
missioners the puppets of a Caucus-con-
trolled Minister, and virtually handing the
control of the railways over to the politi-
cal unions, to which the rank and file be-
long, has been shelved. The bright notion
of lending up to 90 per cent, of face-value
to finance workers’ homes —in the thick ot
a building boom and a land boom— must
also languish in a pigeon-hole till next ses-
sion. From Mr. Lang's point of view, the
sacrifices are doubtless. worth while. But ij
is strange that his Nationalist allies did no
smell a large, fat, predatory rat.
4
An Anti-Australian Boycott.
Minister of Customs Pratten was asked
in Parliament recently a question about tin
boycott, by certain American motor fin ll '
in Australia, of Australian-made spare part?.
The Minister said he was surprised to hear
of a boycott and promised to make inquiries
on the subject. The matter is worth mqui
ing into. At one time the business of ma
ing replacement parts for imported mo
cars was quite an important one. Ihe W*
itself estimated that about £lOO,OOO "
of spare parts was sold each year m
South Wales alone. But now the ou
is said to be gloomy. Where importe
American cars used to send orders
gross or half-a-gross of parts a wee '•
now call on the Australian m aml ' _
for just one or two occasionally P , ,
ably when they happen to run s


imported parts. The Australian parts
makers aver that this is all part of a de-
liberate policy of boycotting the local in-
dustry. They say that the parts they make
ire as good and, given a fair field, can be
sold at the same price as the imported stuff,
or lower. '
The trouble started, strangely enough,
just after the tariff on parts imported
from America had been raised from
10 to 55 per cent. An illustration of what
happened can be given in the case of the
part known as a crown wheel. The price
charged by the agent of an American car
for this part, imported, under the 10 per
cent, duty, was £8 ss. When the duty rose
to 55 per cent, the price was dropped to
£6 10s. Those are retail prices. The spare
part importers, who supply the car agents
wholesale, charged £6 10s. for this part for
the car in question, with duty at 10 per
cent., and dropped to £4 9s. 6d. when the
duty was raised. An Australian-made wheel
is sold to the trade at £4, but there are
spare-part houses which now base their
wholesale prices for imported parts on the
price of the Australian-made article—and
under-cut the local price every time. The
case taken as typical is one of many in
which the same strange perversion of prices
has taken place.
The net result, of course, thus far has
been a saving to the pockets of motorists
in this country, greater, perhaps, than would
have been the case had there been no drive
to put the local manufacturer out of busi-
ness. But if he goes out of business—and
he can’t live on orders for one bolt or one
cog-wheel a day—then it may be expected
that profits on the old scale will be again
enjoyed by the importers. Not only that,
but an important branch of the Australian
steel industry will disappear, and the country
to that extent will be the loser in both
peace and war, since the development of
steel manufactures is of fundamental im-
portance to any nation. The Australian
makers of parts ask only for a fair deal.
They say the tariff protection they enjoy
is ample, and that if importers of cars to
Australia are allowed a free hand to supply
either imported or locally made replace-
ments to their customers they can cope with
the other difficulties that beset them. But if
there is an organised restraint of trade such
as the parts makers complain of, then those
responsible for it ought to be told that they
are guilty of an unfriendly act. which Aus-
tralia will resent to the utmost of its
powers.
♦
The Growth of the Drug Habit.
The report on the illicit drug trade pre-
sented to the League of Nations has much
interest for Australia, since this country
is rapidly developing the disastrous habit.
The report states, among other things, that
the forbidden drugs can only reach coun-
tries where they are not manufactured
through two channels—lax Customs control
and lax supervision after legitimate impor-
tation for medical or other scientific pur-
poses. Apart from the ruin directly pro-
duced by the use of such drugs as cocaine
and heroin, the latest American opinion is
that the great increase in callous, cold-
blooded killing in the States is largely or
entirely due to the “hop habit.” There has
grown up in the big cities a class of gun-
man who kills without reason or excuse,
and without any apparent pleasure in the
act, such as actuated the old-time Bad Man.
This attitude is considered, rightly or
wrongly, to be due to the destruction of all
sense of responsibility by habitual drug-
taking. It may be worth noting that a
recent disturbing police report on N. S.
Wales crime mentioned the increasing habit
of drug-taking and the rise in the murder
curve in the same breath, so to speak. We
have not yet evolved the professional gun-
man, but an increasingly large numbe>’ of
youths are being found in the possession of
concealable firearms, and quite often the
police refer to them as drug addicts, though,
no doubt, the “pictures” have helped to
upset their moral equilibrium. Lazzarini’s
Drugs Act is not nearly stringent enough.
The community is full enough of worthless
parasites as it is; and this country should
risk incurring the displeasure of a lot of
people rather than dabble in namby-pamby
methods for the obliteration of the new
peril.
4
Mrs. Lirriper’s Profession.
“Whoever would begin to be worried with
letting lodgings that wasn’t a lone woman
with a living to get is a thing inconceivable
to me, my dear,” Mrs. Lirriper said over
60 years ago, and all the lone women of
to-day will sigh a sad assent to the good
lady’s lamentation. The boarding- and
lodging-house keeper is, if not invariably,
at least very frequently, a widow.
A very well-intentioned manufacturer in
A T . S. Wales drew up a document which it
was his custom to distribute among young
men as a stimulus to thrift. It was a most
depressing statement, showing in statistical
form what happened if you did not sedu-
lously save your coppers in the days of
youth. Running down a diagonal life-line
from 20 to 50 years, the schedule offered
the information that at the age of 40 years
'5 p.c. of men “meet with reverses and lose
their entire accumulations.” At 45-50 years,
it remarked, “97 p.c. have lost all.” and at
50-60 years “only 1 in 5000 can recover his
financial footing.” Arrived at 60, according
to this statistical Jeremiah. “95 p.c. of men
are dependent upon their daily earnings or
upon their children for support.” No wonder,
then, that there are so many lone widows
and pinched spinsters in Mrs. Lirriper’s
profession.
It must seem a complete withdrawal of
Providential care that at the present time
this particular class of elderly women, as
the greater number are, should have to meet
the drastic and expensive changes embodied
in the recent N.S.W. State award relating
to employees in boarding-houses. This
award makes every possible provision for
the male and female employees with regard
to both wages and hours. Perhaps no com-
plaint can be made on that score from the
point of view of fair conditions for cooks,
housemaids, laundresses and other domestic
servants. They are all provided for, from
the message-boy to the chef. The only
person omitted is the lone widow who runs
the establishment. At present she is spend-
ing sleepless nights in trying to cudgel out
of her brains some scheme by which she
may finance her little business. The obvious
one, of course, presents itself —increasing her
charges. But that way is fraught with
danger. If she suggests it to Mr. Jones,
who has the small bedroom next to the
bathroom, that young gentleman will
assuredly pack up his trunk and depart. He
will become a “paying guest” in the desir-
able home of some suburban family with
more polish than pence. If she tries it on
with old Mrs. Fitzfarthing, who has the
small back room on the first floor, Mrs. Fitz.
will beyond doubt make a prolonged visit to
some reluctant relative in the country. Look
where she will, not only difficulties but hot
words will have to be met. Petty economies
such as cutting out morning tea and omitting
cake from the afternoon food-dalliance
won’t go far when cook demands her legal
rights of wage and leisure. One housemaid
alone would eat up the gross receipts from
Jones, and Mrs. Fitzfarthing’s weekly con- ■
tribution would be utterly swamped in
“boots.” Perhaps old Major Jackman, “be-
ing so much a gentleman:” might take the
suggested increase with philosophy and
courteously suppressed blasphemy, but as to
the rest she can see them departing here
and there into the obscurity that envelops
“the refined home” and “the cheerful adult
circle.”
Poor lone widow! Beyond the immediate
problem of how to meet this new domestic
calamity looms, somewhat bitterly, the pros-
pect also of having to contribute out of
her meagre income towards a Workers’
Compensation fund and, it may be, to the
endowment of other people’s children. Well,
there is the old-age pension—and the end
of her fight for independence.
— +
Competition for Carting Things.
Dear Bulletin,— Victoria’s railway bosses
certainly “are up against a tremendous prob-
lem” in road competition (B. 17/3/’27) —so
are all present-day railway administrations,
/or that matter —but the reason for their
heathen-like rage against the motor pirates
is that the problem wouldn’t be so tre-
mendous if the dice weren’t loaded so
rottenly against them.
Victoria’s annual eight million tons of
railway goods is divided into low-grade and
high-grade traffic. The low-grade stuff—
nearly 75 per cent, of the traffic—comprises
agricultural products, coal, firewood,
manures, timber, gravel, stone and the like.
It pays freight rates which have been deter-
mined with the amiable idea of encourag-
ing development, and which in many cases
barely cover costs. There is no competi-
tion for this loading. The depredations of
the road-motor are directed against the
more valuable and highly-paying freight, to
which the railways look to balance the loss
made in carrying low-grade cargo. The
rail chiefs contend—surely not unreasonably
—that the low rates can be expected to remain
only so long as they can bank on clear-
ing their usual profit from the high-grade
traffic, which the road pirate with a broad
grin is now carrying away.
Another aspect of the matter is that the
road-merchant tears up a road which lias
been constructed by the railway sharehold-
ers, and pays a ridiculously disproportionate
contribution towards its upkeep. (The
“metal” which built that road, and which
is periodically carried to repair it and thus
facilitate the inroads on the railways’ profit-
able freight, is one of the very items which
the foolish Iron Horse trucks at the low-
grade rates.) Chief Commissioner Clapp’s
bellows are therefore directed along two
alternative channels. Either these subsidies
to shire councils and primary producers
must be cut out (in which case there will
be the hades of a row), or else the road
competitor must be compelled to disgorge a
more equitable amount towards highway
construction and maintenance (in which
case, also, there will be the hades of a row).
The motor has come to stay, and it is
in the best interests of the country that it
should stay; but it does seem rather a
damfool business for the community, in
effect, to subsidise the private road-man so
that increasing losses are piled up against
the public railway, which, after all. still
has a bigger say in development than the
road vehicle. Yours. — Railwayman.
*
Judicial Affectations.
“Of course all Judges are right,” said a
celebrated Master of the Rolls, whose miss-
ing aspirates occasionally discounted his
doctrine of perfection. In a patent case
where a question of the application of heat
to a poisonous chemical compound arose, he
asked a French witness what would happen
“if you ’eat it.’ ” The interpreter translated
“si vous le mangez?” Whereupon the
witness lifted his eyes and exclaimed fer-
vently “0 del!”
These little affectations of a perfection
that lifts the Bench above the frailties of
the Junior Bar and the general public fre-
quently ally themselves with protestations of
ignorance of such very secidar matters as
the existence of a popular actress or even
of a pet of the Stadium. Some Judges have
gone so far as to express unawareness of
“the movies.” Others require current slang
expressions to be translated into what they
are pleased to call “English.” A step still
lower down the judicial ladder would bring
their Honors into a realm where English as
they know it is practically unknown—the
Police Court.
An incident that happened the other day
in the Court of an Australian Judge of the
minor judiciary aptly illustrated the very
old and very silly affectation of being unac-
quainted with the colloquial language of the
folk to whom justice is dispensed. Counsel
asked a witness whether a certain person
was “a pal” of his. At this his Honor
shuddered and requested the barrister to
refrain from using slang. “Why not say
•friend,’ Mr. Stuff?” The embarrassed Mr.
Stuff explained that he had used the dread-
ful word thinking it would be more familiar
to witness. “Do you know what a friend
is?” the Judge asked the witness, and the
witness naturally answered promptly “Yes.”
Later on his Honor took occasion to thank
the gentleman in the box for teaching the
Junior Bar English. It seems unnecessary
to say that the members of the Junior Bar
have a love for the Judge which it would
strain the language to express.
If the word “pal” connoted something in-
decent or vulgar, there might be just
ground for withholding it from the sen-
sitive ears of his Honor; but as it is in
its modern use a clean word expressing
a close comradeship, it seems to be merely
petty to quibble at its use. What would
happen if the word “cobber” were to strike
the supefsensitive ear of this Judge? That
rough lingual gem holds in its heart the
fire of infinite suffering and infinite loyalty.
“He was my cobber in France”—his Honor
has missed pretty well half of what life
can hold if he fancies that that means
merely “companion.” or even “friend”!
And, anyway, Judges are not paid to give
lessons in'English. When they break away
from their job to do it, they are “pinching”
some of the public’s time—though what
“pinching” means of course no Judge of
this pattern will know.
♦
Bark and Bite.
Senator Pearce, as V.P. of the Executive
Council, has directed attention to this
country’s “unsatisfactory position with re-
gard to tanning material.” Australia, the home
of the wattle, was, he said, importing bark
from S’Africa, which had got its seed from
Australian sources. The Senator added,
vaguely, that the Council for Scientific and
Industrial Research was convinced that the
Commonwealth possessed all the tanning
materials required, wherefore it was proposed
to erect “a semi-commercial plant”—precious
phrase!—at Perth University for the pro-
duction of tannins, the Research Council
and the W.A. Government whacking the
cost. Senator Pearce is responsible for the
further statement that the cost of the im-
ported material is so high that Austra-
lian hides are being sent abroad for treat-
ment. If that is true, it is all the more
reason for quick and definite action. The
general impression has been that S’African
wattle-bark, from plantations scientifically
laid out and cultivated by cheap Hindu
labor, could be landed here so cheaply that
the Australian “stripper” could not make
a decent living. If that is a wrong
idea, the sooner it is put beyond all ques-
tion the better. It is possible that quite
a lot of Australians would be prepared
to take up wattle-bark production if they
could see an assured market. Besides
wattle, Australia has unlimited supplies of
mangrove. Mangrove-bark gathering, like
wattle-bark stripping, is at present in the
hands of casual and unorganised adven-
turers. Here again—for the article is in
good local demand—inquiry must be made
as to the best means of encouraging organ-
ised exploitation. Little Natal, chroni-
cally hard up, subsidised and nursed the
wattle-growing industry for years, till it
became one of the Province’s most valu-
able assets. Down to the present it has
been thought that, at any rate, if we were
not selling bark, we were getting cheap
material for the benefit of our tanning
industry; that we are doing neither the
one nor the other makes action much more
urgent.
4
The Communist’s Brotherly Love.
“Feng-Shui”: The police in Java took a
long time to catch the leader of the Com-
munist outbreak, but they got him at last
and he told a picturesque tale. He was a
graduate of the Dutch school for training
“doktors Jawa,” or native mcdicoes. It was
the usual story. He found his foreign edu-
cation no passport to a career commensurate
with his ambitions, but it led him into the
rose-strewn revolutionary bypaths of Euro-
pean literature. He became interested in
the revelation of the prophet Lenin, got in
touch with the local h.q. in British Singa-
pore and acted on its instructions. The
plan was simple. The I’ising was to begin
with the assassination of white officials. The
municipal buildings in the capital were then
to be stormed and the unassassinated re-
mainder of the civil service imprisoned.
A national council, composed of a Javanese
agitator, last heard of as being in Moscow,
two Russian advisers and himself, was then
to take over the machinery of government.
The Communist doctrine being adjustable,
foreign consuls and property were to be
respected, and the favor of the British in
particular was to be cultivated, lest Java
should be reconquered from Singapore. But
the Blanda (Dutchman) was to be extermi-
nated, all officials being hanged in public,
in fact, the convert to Communism admitted
that he was less interested in imposing
that doctrine on his fellow-countrymen
than in ridding the Indies of the Hollander.
He declared that the scheme only went
awry because the arms and ammunition
that had been collected were placed, in the
hands of people who had never fired a shot.
in anger or otherwise. One has to go back
200 years to find a similar example. Pieter
Erberfeld plotted with the native princes
to wipe out the Dutch. The native princes
aimed at restoring the dynasty, but, like
the latest rebel, Erberfeld's aims were
simple. He wanted to murder ail the
whites because they were to him a symbol
of fancied degradation—he was a half-
caste. On such foundations of hate are
revolutions, or attempted revolutions, built.
Monkey Glands and Wool.
“J.L.”: “Strict Veg.’s” par. (B. 17/3/’27)
denouncing the Steinacii rejuvenation
operation as a sham is another illustration
of the fact that an open mind, eagerly
expectant of new discoveries and ready to
remould convictions in the light of added
knowledge, is the rarest and most difficult
to achieve. The Steinacii method is in
the experimental stage at present, but there
is absolutely no doubt at all concerning the
success of Dr. Serge Voronoff’s gland
operations. He has succeeded in curing dia-
betes without the use of insulin by grafting
pancreas glands from monkeys. Voronoff
says monkeys provide us with sets of glands
which act on the heart and the brain—a
gland that gives intelligence where none
existed, and a gland which controls our
growth. These operations have not been
performed in England, because of the anti-
vivisection law which bars a monkey being
robbed of his glands, but permits of a man '
giving his. Hence all operations are per-
formed on the Continent, where go large
numbers of Englishmen and Americans.
Voronoff (as per cables a few days ago)
has been most successful in carrying out
experiments in co-operation with the French
Government for the production of super-
wool-producing sheep. In Algiers the French
Government has established a farm where it
has 10,000 sheep, including 3000 rams. These
rams, as a result of gland treatment, have
produced super-wool producers. As France
buys about £20,000,000 worth of wool annu-
ally from Australia, the results of these
experiments are of great interest here.
Voronoff asserts that France will in six
years be able to reduce her purchases of
wool from Australia by £10,000,000. Further,
the sheep which would ordinarily die at 14
years now live to 20, and they are 81b.
heavier at five months than lambs from
untreated sheep. Finally, in order to assist
Voronoff in his pursuit of monkey glands,
practically all Continental Governments
possessing territory in Africa are “pro-
tecting” chimpanzees.
♦
A Country School.
“M.L.F.”: Granted that £156,000 was a
paltry sum for the Lang Government to
hand out in a year for new schools; but was
even that amount spent to the best advan-
tage? During 1925 I took charge of a small
N.S.W. country school that had been opened
in 1924. The district —not 50 miles from
Wagga—was regarded as being in a heat
area. Apparently the architect, with
no knowledge of how the bitterly bleak,
cold winds sweep across those inland areas,
planned it with his mind dwelling on the
regions round Port Darwin; and I could
not find that any person from the Works
Department supervised the building. The
room itself was 18ft. x 18ft. The fireplace
was half oval shaped, the opening being in
all only 3ft. high from the floor, and no
matter how big the logs were that you piled
into it, the heat went chiefly up the
chimney. (Incidentally, a whole 10s. yearly
was allowed for firewood.) On cold and wet
days, whilst the Upper group did arithmetic
at their desks, the Lower group were seated
on a form before the fire, taking a lesson:
then for the next lesson the groups changed
places. A ventilator in the centre of the
ceiling, roughly a yard square, with wide
open mesh through which the wind whistled
tunefully, lowered the temperature a few
degrees. The floor was so wonderfully put
in that a good stream of fresh air rushed up
—a nice, freezing current of cold air. The
porch and cloak-room was 18ft. by 6ft.. built
in one with the school and divided off.
There was no weather shed, and during
rainy weather the children had to cluster
in the porch whilst enjoying an hour’s
freedom. At night the school and porch
had to be locked up, so children arriving
on a wet morning before the teacher were
supposed to stand out in the rain as a
penance for being early. I had had charge
of four schools in South Australia and five
in Westralia; the only one where con-
ditions approximated to those of this new
building in New South Wales was a small
affair to which T was asked to go for three
months, and that building was reputed to
be the oldest in W.A.!


CONSERVATION
is just thrift. Tlui farmer conserves fodder in the good years against the season
or drought or flood, and by his preparedness for such times his progress may
largely be estimated.
Thrift does not mean the mere hoarding of anything, but the wise use of
such material, whether it be foodstuff, money or other material.
The conservation of money is a necessity in all walks of life, and the Savings
account a simple, easy method of effecting it.
1 o the wise spending, the use of the facilities offered by a modern Bank will
contribute very largely.
se !’ vices are offered by every Branch, and Savings Bank service by every
Post-Office Agency of the
(tomweallb JBaiik of Australia
(Guaranteed by the Commonwealth Government.)
BELTING
ji jp;' 1/tmost Strength
mi
everj/ Length
rn
m
- -W
sa * :s *?fec£
tiVWM
ySr*«.v iteMJ.^kx
EVEN ON STEADY
DRIVES,
such as Pumping^
“MANGROVITE”
Leather or Rawhide
Belting
proves its superiority by consistently driving with that steadiness and
precision essential to even wear and permanent alignment of bearings
and shafting. And it does not lose an ounce of power on heavy,
irregular drives, such as sawing, threshing and chaff-cutting, but
transmits with the utmost force and regularity. With ordinary care
Mangrovite lasts for years, and cuts costs to a minimum.
MANGROVITE BELTING LTD.,
Charles Ludowici, Managing Director.
49 York Street (Wynyard Square), Sydney.
POLITICAL
POINTS
South Ans. has emphatically declared for
a change of Government. In the last Parlia-
ment Labor had 26 of the 46 Assembly
seats, but at the general election on Satur-
day it lost S. R. Whitford in North Adel-
aide, L. C. Hunkin in East Torrens, M. R.
O’Halloran and probably S. AlcHugh and
A. R. G. Hawke in Burra Burra. F. R.
Stamford in Murray, A. Robertson in Woo-
roora, and maybe J. O’Connor in Flinders
and L. A. Hopkins in Barossa. Also, F. J.
Condon, one of the pair selected for Port
Adelaide, which was thought to be impreg-
nable, was beaten by a “Protestant” Labor
man, and all the party’s assaults on Oppo-
sition seats failed. So Liberal-leader Butler
becomes Premier, with Alclntosli, of the
(’ountry party, as chief lieutenant, and Labor
goes into opposition—a little disheartened
but with no cause to be ashamed, for it
fought a clean fight.
The most striking personal triumph of the
S.A. election was that of Dr. Basedow, who
may top the poll for Barossa. He stood as
an independent Cocky, having been forced
into that position by the refusal of Lib.-
Cocky officialdom to endorse him, though he
bad nursed the constituency for years and
was a strong candidate in every way. With
the doctor on their ticket the allies would
very likely have captured the three Barossa
seats; as it is, they will be lucky to get one.
The electoral-boundaries and roll-stuffing
jokes saved Westralian Labor from a decis-
ive defeat on Saturday, but the party is not
out of danger yet. Unopposed returns gave
it a lead of nine seats (there are 50 alto-
gether), and it ran candidates for 30 of the
36 seats contested on Saturday, but it is
definitely assured of 15 only; in effect. 24
Laborites and 21 Oppositionists have been
returned, and Greenough, in which a Labor
member is fighting a Nationalist and a
Cocky, is in doubt. So the Government’s fate
will be decided in the four nor’-west elec-
torates, polling in which is always a week or
so later than in the southern lot. All four
were Nationalist for years prior to 1924,
when Labor captured Pilbara and Wyndham
by narrow majorities, so anything may hap-
pen. Indeed, the whole business may end in
stalemate, with 25 members on each side.
In an election leaflet attacking the Allan-
cock redistribution scheme, the Vie. Labor
party asserts that “the Queensland Act pro-
vides for equal electorates.” If this is so,
tin; Queensland Labor Government treats the
Act, with contempt, for at the general elec-
tion last year 38,228 electors in Labor dis-
tricts returned nine members and 38,537 elec-
tors in Opposition districts returned four
members. The Labor districts were Flin-
ders (2741), Gregory (3905), Charters
lowers (4127), Balonne (4274). Queen-
ton (4339), Alt. Morgan (4573). Cook
( At»o6), Chillagoe (4722) and Warrego
(4941) ; the Opposition districts were King
(9980), Oxley (9907), Enoggera (9679)
and Toowong (8971). There will be no Vie.
parallel to this Queensland swindle, bad as
the Allaneock scheme may be—and, for that
matter, it isn’t a tenth as bad as the West-
ralian Labor crime, with 17,348 electors in
Canning, 265 in Alenzies, 555 in Cue and 659
in Hannans. But the election leaflet doesn’t
mention the Westralian Labor crime.
Some of Lang’s ingenious little taxes on
industry got very little attention as they
were being rushed through. One of them
made itself known to factory-owners for the
first time a few days ago—a so-called regis-
tration fee for factories. It is really a tax
on factories, factories being shameful things
which supply work and wages; none escape,
and for one of any size £lO is the poll-tax.
The owner gets nothing in return except that
his outfit will be entered in a book, pre-
sumably as a guide to the Government when
i! wants more money.
The Queensland Government is withdraw-
ing its trains from the utterly unpayable
Etheridge line, and is being loudly cursed.
.Stoppage of trains and trams is hard on men
who have come into a district and spent
money because those* things were there, but
what can be done about it? Turn the thing
on its other end. If a line is built on the
strength of a mine or a farm, and the mine
or farm doesn't pay, how many men will
keep the thing going, losing money all the
while, merely in order to give the railway
employment?
Senator Pearce told Federal members the
other day that, to shield Alelbourne from
the indignity of again being plunged in dark-
ness by striking laborers at Yallourn. the
Government might be obliged to lay a cable
across Bass Strait to connect Victoria with
the Speck’s hydro-electric system. Drastic
TROUBLE IN THE CIRCUS.
“Having produced an election platform which carefully sidestepped . all the Socialistic planks in Labor’s platform, Vic. Labor-leader Hogan bad to
issue a frantic appeal to the Yallourn strikers, whose actions plunged half Melbourne into darkness.”
TIGER-TAMER HOGAN: “ Here, cut it out there behind —spoiling the act just when I'm convincing the public how docile and harm-
less you arc!”
enforcement of industrial contracts would be
more effectual, and the cost would be rela-
tively trifling, but it is a course from which
flabby politicians shrink.
“Bildad" : The strike for a 40-hour week
in the Brisbane building trade ended on St.
Patrick’s Day, and the ending was another
of the saint’s good works. The stoppage was
engineered by a comparative handful, but
the handful arrived early at the meetings,
pre-empted the front seats, threatened vio-
lence, and roared down opposition. In fact,
a time came when it had the meetings almost
to itself. But on March 17 a great part of
the obstreperous faction was absent. In its
absence a mass meeting was held, and an
overwhelming majority declared the strike off.
At its last sitting in Melbourne the Com-
monwealth Legislature voted £50,000 to pro-
vide “a permanent memorial” of its 26 years’
occupancy of Victoria’s Parliamentary build-
ings. l-he object could be secured by letting
the Vic. Government have the £50,000 as
a loan. Loans are the only permanent
memorials Australia knows.
The shindy in tlie N.S.W. A.L.P. executive
was marked last week by two executions, the
victims being ex-president Seale and S. Bird,
of tlie old executive. Seale was expelled from
the A.L.P. for refusing to admit that he was
no longer president, and for setting up a
show of his own ; Bird’s offence was that of
aiding and abetting the ex-president. Seale
is expected to retaliate by expelling the
comrades who expelled him. Meantime each
faction is talking about proceeding against
the other for collecting funds on —er —repre-
sentations that are not in strict accordance
with fact.
The British Labor party, which loves a
bit of color, has endorsed one Fung Shaw,
a Chinese, as Labor candidate for Holborn.
Fung, who is an organiser or something
among Chinese seamen on the London docks,
“deplores” the sending of British troops to
Shanghai. If they hadn’t been sent there
would have been a first-class massacre in
the international settlement, as the frenzied
attacks on foreigners which succeeded the
Cantonese occupation of Nanking indicate;
but no doubt Fung w r ill go on deploring, as
also will the queer crowd that has adopted
him.
Lang’s Minister Badly, who has made
heavy weather with Labor and! Alines, lias
had an awkward little trouble that Sydney
didn’t hear much about. The cost of living
governs the wage rate at Broken Hill, and
when the prices of metals started to slither,
some of the cos. decided to reduce the cost
of living (and therefore their labor bill) by
supplying their workmen with stores at cost
price. Badly might have given three cheers
for “the elimination of the middleman,” only
the little middleman of Broken Hill is a
Labor voter if be is handled properly. Where-
fore Air. Badly sternly informed the mining
eos. that the State had issued them their
leases for mining and not for trading, and if
they continued the latter they would be
ehancing forfeiture.
Ministers Bourchier and McDonald, Grand-
master Snowball, ex-Premier Prendergast,
Rents-Court Murphy, Deputy-Chairman
Cotter and ex-Minister Beardmore were the
lucky seven who had no opponents when
Vic. Assembly nominations closed. For the
58 contested seats there are I(J6 candidates.
Of Labor’s 48 about 35 are among their
first-raters, and on tlie whole they have been
well placed. But the Yallourn strike will
certainly alienate portion of the “floating”
vote, and the party doesn’t even dream of
being returned with a majority; the other
side concedes it no more than 34 seats.
Never has there been a tamer campaign.
If Scott Fell, M.L.A. for North Shore,
resigns to contest the Wafringah Federal
constituency, the N.S.W. Lang Government
will have an opportunity of getting another
Assembly seat without buying it with a fat
billet, as it did in the Kay case. For Scott
Fell was labelled an Independent, the same as
Kay, and the fact that he has voted with the
Opposition on no-confidence motions wouldn’t
matter if the Government needed his seat.
When a casual vacancy occurs under propor-
tional representation an unscrupulous Gov
eminent can do anything, and the present
crowd showed in the Kay case that it was
capable’ of anything.
Objecting to a newspaper charge that he
and fellow-Laborite Lemmon had used their
positions on the A.N.A. board of directors
to secure a declaration of hostility to the
Allaneock redistribution scheme, Bill Slater
M.L.A., asked the annual conference a‘
Hamilton to absolve him. The delegates did
what Willie wished. They like him too well
apart from politics, to disoblige him on a
little matter like that, especially when the
conference was meeting in his home town—
the centre of a constituency for which lie is
seeking re-election. Incidentally, the con-
ference adopted a resolution declaring for
elective Ministries. No charge of Labor in-
fluence can be brought in that regard. When
the elective-Ministry principle was put to
the vote in Vic. Assembly on September 30.
on Dick Toutcher’s motion, only one Laborin'
(Wallace, of Albert Park) ranged himself
with the five Nats., three iCockies and one
ex-Cocky who constituted tlie 10 Ayes. The
27 Noes comprised IS Laborites, 6 Nats,
and 3 Cockies.
The meek unionists who support Sydney
Trades and Labor Council have been ordered
to subscribe between £9OO and £lOOO so that
secretary Garden and delegates Wright.
Middleton and Bennett may visit Canton and
three of them go on to Moscow. For “the
All-China Labor Federation,” which seems
to be mostly Borodin alias Grusenberg, lias
summoned “a Pan-Pacific Labor Congress"
commencing in Canton on May Day, and the
opportunity of proclaiming that Australians
stand side by side with Chinese coolies. Rus-
sian moujiks and Mexican peons in the fight
against “Western imperialism” is too glori-
ous to be missed.
N.S.W. Premier Lang's announcement to
his Caucus that he intends to bring in some-
one with experience of trading banks as n
commissioner of the State Savings Bank
when O’Malley Wood retires is thought
by some to indicate that Mr. Willis’s hopes
of taking,a hand in the “nationalisation of
credit” have been dashed. But that doesn't
follow. If Mr. Kay is a meat expert Mr.
Willis is a banker.
Australia has had a successful argument
with the Mandates Committee of the League
of Nations. The crux of the argument was
whether dissatisfied inhabitants of a man-
dated territory—for example, the relatives
of an obscure savage who is knocked on
the head while trying to murder a prospector
—should have the right of a personal appear-
ance before the committee in Geneva. Such
a condition of things would be an almost un-
bearable thorn in the side of a mandatory,
as the Australian Government pointed out; and
the Council of the League decided that com-
plaints and evidence must be presented in
writing. The incident was a move in a cam-
paign to embarrass the "C” mandatories, Aus-
tralia and Maoriland, a campaign obviously
inspired by the German League for the
return of the “stolen colonies.”
To the surprise of militant unionism
Federal Arbitration Judge Beeby has laid
down the principle that people mustn't ask
the Court to arbitrate unless they intend
to accept the award. The watersides in
some ports —Sydney, of course, among them
—while committed to acceptance of a Fed-
eral award, made go-slow rules of their
own. Their Federal executive, as usual,
knew nothing about the thing officially, and
was pained when told it is responsible. But
if it isn’t responsible it shouldn’t pretend
to represent the watersiders in a Federal
Court. Judge Beeby’s acute perception ox
this logical aspect of affairs is likely to mak
him unpopular.
THE RETURN OF JOSEPH.
[FOR THE BULLETIN. ]
“It is rumored that Joseph Cook contemplates re-
entering Federal politics. His term in London
expires on May 11.”
A cushy billet, this, an envied lot—
And yet how readily are men forgot,
Wliate’er the eminence to which they’re
hurled
For half a dozen years across the world.
Reid, as liis time for exit nearer drew,
Forlornly offered to forego his screw
Sooner than quit his job to try and find
Another in tlie land he’d left behind.
Implacably they told him that his day
Was done and his successor on the way.
He found a haven at St. Stephen’s, true,
But strokes of luck like that are passing
few.
Fisher, inexorable Fate decreed,
In turn should be as loath to leave as Reid,
And, outed, face a world more blank and
grim.
Where’er he turned there was no place for
him.
He crossed the seas and found the cupboard
bare,
The niche he filled of old no longer there,
And crept unwanted to his native Ayr.
Ex-Kings scarce harder find the rolling years
Than superseded High Commissioners.
Will Parramatta, shedding tears of joy.
Clasp to her arms again her wandering buy?
<)r will he find a generation—woe
The thought!—arisen up that knows not Joe?
N.S.W.
MIDPORD.


?
O**®
A
%
“And what do you
mean to make of your little man,
Mrs. Briskett ? ” asked the Squire.
“ A butcher, sir ” replied Mrs. 8.,
“ *E’s bound to be a butcher ; why, ’e’s
that fond of animals we can’t keep ’im
out of the slaughterhouse.”
A good story and a
good cigarette are
worth repeating!
5t$TE
(XPi^ESS
20 for Y 6
ARDATH TOBACCO CO: LTD: LONDON
SOCIETY
"and it's
printed with
WIMBLE'S INKS”
HE THOUGHT SO STILL.
MRS. : “You used to sou Heaven sent me to you.”
MR.: “Well, I still believe it; but note I think it was as a punishment, old girl .”
“Riverina” : Speaking of unconventional
forms of greeting to travelling vice-royalties
(B 17/2/’27). I still retain pleasant recol-
lections of a South Island (M.L.) small-
town mayor's welcome to Lord Jellicoe and
family. Our first citizen—a bachelor and
a rough diamond—greeted the great sailor
with boisterous enthusiasm: “So you’re Jel-
licoe eh? I’ve heard a lot about you. and,
bv Jove, old man. you’ll do me!” Her lady-
shin came in for similarly warm approval,
but the most glowing tribute of all was
reserved for a Jellicoe daughter. “There’s a
finV young girl for you, boys,” said his Wor-
shin, appealing to the youth of the township,
“I t e ]i you straight, if I was a few years
younger”- His eloquence was cut short
by some admonishing coughs, and several of
the local Pooli-Bahs reddened with indignation,
but the crowd cheered; and the man of Jut-
land, good sport that he is, seemed rather
to enjoy the situation. It must have been
a relief after the soul-wearying addresses
encountered at most places on his tour.
* * * *
“Wang” : In a Melbourne suburban court
the other day a woman proceeded against her
husband, a huge hulking specimen, for
assault. The plaintiff was almost m the
heavyweight class herself, but she gave her
evidence in such a low tone that the diminu-
tive chairman of the bench presently grew
testy. “Speak up, madam,” he adjured, ‘ a
big woman like you can surely speak louder.”
Then, by way of encouragement, he added,
“Try and speak to me as if I were your hus-
band, and had come home late on pay night.
You’d find your voice then, eh!” This roused
the lady. “Yes,” she shrilled, “an’ if me
ole man wus no bigger than you are I
wouldn’t be here. I cud manage half a dozen
th’ size of you without doin’ much torkin’.
either.” The case proceeded without any
further helpful suggestions from the Bench.
• * * *
“Bill R.”: At Itoyalla (N.S.W.) the other
day roadside residents might have been
excused for thinking some new sort of go-as-
you-please contest was in progress. First a
motor-lorry whirled along the highway m
clouds of dust at about 70 miles an hour.
Two horsemen followed at top speed, their
arms and legs working like weavers’ shuttles.
Then an agitated swagman burst into view,
covering the ground in a series of frantic
bounds. The station dogman, with his com-
pany of mongs, which seemed in more hurry
than anyone, brought up the rear of the pro-
cession and vanished into the scrub. It sub-
sequently transpired that in bumping the
guard-log of a culvert the lorry had dislodged
a colony of hornets. For three days after-
wards all speed records were liable to be
broken when anybody attempted to pass the
enraged insects. It took a night call with
a charge of blasting-powder to quieten them
down.
“L.C.M.”: I once stayed at a seaside
boarding-house not far from Sydney where
there was quite a pleasant globe-trotting
atmosphere about meals. At breakfast,
for instance, your porringer might be
labelled “S.S. Maheno,” your bread-and-
butter plate sport the flags of the P. and
O. Company and your coffee-cup bear the
name of a Transatlantic liner. The explana-
tion was simple; the landlady’s father-in-
law had been a ship’s steward, and had
apparently served on quite a number of
lines. I never learned whether the souvenirs
were re-souvenired in course of time or
whether mine hostess tired of the spectacle
of young boarders pouring their soup over
their ears m tlieir anxiety to see the in
on the bottoms of their plates, but the last
time I dropped in the intriguing crockery
had all been replaced by a stock pattern from
the local store.
*. .. * . * ... *. ~
“Oilskin : The irapendmg visit of the
Duke of York to Caulfield Military Hospital
recalls that when Edward I. visited the m-
stitution in 1920 a battalion of civilians
with a pull at headquarters gathered in
the Red Cross rooms m the grounds, and pre-
pared to extend a gorgeous welcome to the visi-
tor. The Prince turned up all right, but after
a glance at his expectant hosts lie remarked
that he had come to see sick Diggers, and
promptly shaped a course for the wards.
NO DAWDLER.
"They say she doesn’t know the first thine about love."
“Quite likely, dearie. She skipped a lot of things, I know.”
The incapacitated men who survive still
recount the incident with appreciation.
* * * *
“M.G.S.”: The belief in the efficacy of
rings in warding off disease (i.e., evil spirits)
goes further back than Benvenuto Cellini
(B. 17/3/'27). Primitive man regarded
anything strange with superstitious venera-
tion, and metal must have at one time been
strange to him. Iron was so regarded. A
metal so potent could be Used against the
spirits. Hence a nail in your pocket is
weight enough to prevent the fairies carry-
ing you off on your way home from a braw
Scots nicht. A piece of iron laid on an
open wound will effect a cure in Ceylon.
Australian tinned goods have a ready sale
among some tribes in Borneo because their
metal casing insulates them against the
demons of bacteriological decay. But iron
in the flat is an awkward thing to carry
round. The man who first thought to twist
it into a ring was the medical genius of liis
age, just as much as the late Professor
Hunter was of this.
* * * *
“Mulga”: The trick of handing over a
pound-note and getting change for a fiver
or a tenner (B. 10/3/’27) is no new one.
I knew a pair of crooks who worked it in
quite a number of Melbourne pubs before
they enlisted and took to manipulating one
of the first “crown-and-anclior” boards ever
seen on a military transport. One of them
would enter the saloon bar with a chance
acquaintance when the peak rush was on,
order drinks and tender a £5-note as pay-
ment. Shortly after, liis confederate would
breast the counter at the other end and
pay for his nobbier with a £l-note. Nine-
teen shillings-odd would be counted out as
change, and No. 2 would loudly voice his
indignation—No. 1 had disappeared by this
time. Hot words would follow between the
customer and the barmaid or barman, but
the spieler would always remark that he pre-
ferred to talk with the manager of the hotel.
On the latter’s arrival the aggrieved cus-
tomer would supply the number of the £5-
note in the cash register. Arguments during
rush hours are not conducive to brisk busi-
ness. and Bung almost always paid.
“Naklioda” : Coming nearer home than the
Congo (B. 17/3/’27), bamboo is the Javan-
ese substitute for powdered glass as a
means of getting rid of inconvenient white
men. Soft bamboo shoots are a vegetable
that may be safely, or even gratefully, eaten,
but the fibre of oid plant shredded into food
provides a different story. I was once pain-
fully prostrated by what may have been the
administration of a dose. The finish of the
adventure was rather comic. The Dutch
doctor, whom long residence had made some-
what of a madman, thought it might be
cholera, and rushed away to test a slide of
my blood. A few days later I met him in
the street. “God verdikken !” he exclaimed.
“Still alive, eh? I forgot about your slide,
and when I found it it was too late. If it
was cholera, I said, the poor fellow he is
dead already. So why worry?”
* * * *
“Tabac”: The other day a N.S.W. Judge
recorded sentence of death against a pri-
soner on one count of an indictment, and
gave him two years’ imprisonment on an-
other. This, though perfectly judicial, has
a somewhat Gilbertian suggestion about it.
It recalls an extraordinary condition of
affairs I met with 40 years ago ■in the
French penal settlement of Noumea.
of humanitarianism was going over France
at the time, and the death penalty had been
suspended except in very exceptional cases.
The consequence was that some of the irre-
claimables in He Nou, the island reserved
for the worst class of criminals, had recorded
against their names a series of sentences of
imprisonment that far exceeded the term
of a natural life. A simple calculation
showed that Thibauld would shake off
his chains in the year 1987 and Pauf-
fert would need to live till 2006 to
regain his freedom. But the show case was
that of Adeline. He had originally been
transported for 10 years with hard labor.
On the island lie piled up 153 years in addi-
tion for various crimes, and these years car-
ried with them a further 150 years of sur-
veillance. Only death could open the prison
gates for most of these foreats; and I sup-
pose it has done so long since.
, f * * *
“Momokeni”: There is more variety in
the fare of the natives in the Papuan deltas
than “Molokilii’s” par. conveys (B.
17/3/’27). Living amongst them for some
years, I found that, though sticks of plain
baked sago formed the staple food, they were
varied whenever possible by the addition of
grubs, bits of fish, meat and bananas,
moulded in with the sago, as a white baker
puts in currants and raisins to make a bun-
loaf. Every delta native, though he builds
his village house in the soupy mud of the
lower river, has a chosen spot on the upper
reaches where he builds his koniubati (lean-
to shack) and plants his garden. Traversing
the waterways, one meets at all times canoes
bound for the villages, laden with sweet
potatoes, taro, yams, bananas, sugar-cane
and cocoanuts, all good-keeping commodities.
The deltas teem with life, and there is no-
thing that creeps, crawls, wriggles, swims
or flies that the natives will not eat to vary
the monotony of sago. It is a tribute to
tlicir diet that they are one of the brawniest
of the Papuan races.
THE DIVORCE-COURT KISS.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
"Shortly afterwards a resounding kiss was heard
in court, and the reunited couple departed.’'
—Sydney Divorce Court item.
It rang like the crack of a stockwhip in the
calm of a summer night;
It started the drowsing counsel, and so very
well it might.
There are noises, disturbing mostly, float in
through that courthouse door.
But the sharpest ears can seldom have
pricked to this sound before.
It rose, with a pop and a gurgle, on the de-
corous atmosphere
Like the cork that a barman wrenches from
a bottle of humming beer.
Though his Honor forebore the chestnut at
which Costs has so often smiled
About “filing an affidavit” —still, that’s what
it was being filed.
It might, for its full, moist timbre, have been
a horse or a cow
Extracting a heavy forefoot from a clinging
swamp or a slough.
And the copper who bellows “Order in
Court” every now and then,
He opened his mouth for action —then, grin-
ning, shut it again.
It sounded, a pressman told me, like a motor-
lorry’s chug,
Or a bath when the water’s leaking because
of a faulty plug,
Or a pancake fried in butter that the cook
turns deft in the pan—
If that doesn’t bring it before you, I’ll swear
no simile can.
But if it be true, as some poet insisted long
ago,
There’s a chink in the world above us where
they listen for words from below,
Or even for mere caresses, I’m pretty certain
of this:
That the angels smiled when it reached them
—the sound of that courthouse kiss.
JT.S.W.
T. THE R.


“Morehead”: Old Syd-
ne y directories sho w
many streets and lanes
which have utterly van-
ished in the last 70 years.
Among them is Carter-
street. which once ran
into Elizabeth-street and
had for residents Jere-
miah Higgins, chief con-
stable of the Sydney
police, and Michael
Furey. sexton of the
adjacent Protestant
Burial-ground. I won-
der how many could
“place” it now. When
the North Shore bridge is
finished traffic will
rumble on the city side
close to where Bunker’s
Hill stood, a vanished
thoroughfare in the Rocks
urea. Here in the mid
fifties dwelt seamen, sail-
makers, wharfingers and
stevedores. Pedestrians
In Lower George-street
to-day can no longer
turn into Brown Bear-
lane, where the licensed
watermen of the harbor
were to be found in those
day s. George - street,
especially from the Ilay-
market up to Central
Square, is a cemetery of
forgotten streets, such as
Maguire-place. Bull’s
Yard and Sells’s-lano.
Daily’s Y'ard once emptied
itself into Hunter-street,
and Elizabeth-street dip-
ped right down into Farm
C o v e. Sussex - court,
Fowler’s-square and Para-
dise-place are just a few
old - time thoroughfares
that have vanished as
effectively as the Tank
Stream.
“Kulka”: At the Dar-
win Supreme Court last
two abos. were
found guilty of inflicting
grievous bodily harm
upon a 14-ycar-old lad of
the tribe. There was a
terrible wound on the vic-
tim’s stomach, and a
strong suspicion (though
no proof) that something
had been taken out of it,
possibly the kidney fat.
In previous cases of can-
nibalism, special store is
known to have been set
on the kidney fat, the
idea being that the con-
sumer assimilates certain
vigorous qualities, and
there is a tendency to re-
gard this latest case as
one of attempted canni-
balism. But the explana-
tion may be erroneous.
Among the natives of the
Gulf Country, which isn’t
so very far away, the
removal of the kidney fat
is a tribal punishment
sometimes inflicted for incest. An ancient
Gulf native died at the Norman ton (Q.)
Hospital a few years ago, and scars on his body
were evidence that he had experienced this
form of tribal surgery in his youth. The
wounded youth in the Darwin case was
treated at the Pine Creek hospital by the
nursing sister in the absence of a doctor, and
made the quick recovery that could only be
expected from a native.
* * * #
“Nakhoda”: Yic. will be the first main-
land State to follow the Speck in reducing
the full-blooded abo. to a museum curio-
sity. There are only 55 Binghis left, and
the vital statistics concerning them are sig-
nificant. Twenty-eight adult males and IS
adult females have only nine children between
them. Is it a judicious dispensation of
Nature that all the children are males?
* * * *
“Conklin” : The matrimonial agency busi-
ness flourishes in Sydney, as in most big
cities. There are two of these establishments
in Oxford-street within a stone’s-throw of
each other and competition is keen. One
concern advertises itself as a 41-year-old
enterprise, and claims that during the last
quarter of a century it has sent 17,000
couples to the altar —about 13 a week. Its
nearest rival is content to describe itself as a
“conscientious” matrimonial agency ; possibly
this is what enables it to charge a shilling
more for an intro, than its competitor. A
third bureau issues a leaflet from which one
learns that many of the fair sex on the
books “are wealthy and own businesses, city
property and homes, others are poor but
honorable and all are lonely.” This agency
bars colored people and offers to refund your
money if you do not pick a suitable partner.
* * * *
"Alwyn”: The statue of Queen Victoria,
Queen’s-square, Sydney, gaily decked with
bunting and brightly illuminated for her
great-grandson’s visit, was unveiled by Lord
Carrington on January 24, 1888, the foun-
dation-stone of the pedestal having been
laid seven years before by Prince Edward
of Wales, afterwards Duke of Clarence. The
statue which was to have been placed there
was a wooden one, originally erected in the
Garden Palace, but that scheme was upset by
the fire of September 22, 1882. The Govern-
ment of the day decided to replace the cre-
mated statue, and in 1883 the sum of £3OOO
was voted for the purpose. An attempt was
made to obtain designs for the new monu-
ment. from local artists, but the result not
being satisfactory recourse was had to Lon-
don. The present statue was the work of
Joseph Edgar Boehm.
* * * •*
“Ming”: A Sydney man had two brothers,
twins, one resident in London and the other
in Maoriland. Just as he was leaving for
town one morning last week lie was handed
a cable announcing the sudden death of the
brother in England. He called in at the
cable office, and sent the news on to Maori-
land. When he reached his office there was
GETTING NEAR.
“There are now only 56 full-blooded aboss. left in Victoria.”
KING BILLY THE LAST : “Mine tinkit we soon he there note, Mary.”
anotlier cable lying on his desk informing him
that his Maoriland brother had also died
suddenly. The pair must have gone out
about the same hour.
* * * *
“Oilskin” : An elderly lady who has for
years been distributing reading matter among
the Diggers in the Caulfield Hospital in-
variably searches the magazines beforehand
and tears out the pages containing corset
advertisements and pictures of bathing girls.
A week or two back the old dame suggested
to the sister in charge of one of the wards
that she (the sister) might censor the pic-
torial publications. “Oh!”' exclaimed the
angel impatiently, “I haven't the time to
spare. And why not let the boys sow their
wild oats? They’ve finished teething, any-
way.” The magazines now reach their desti-
nation unexpurgated.
* * * *
“Stellsby”: Tie “firing on the King’s
enemies without the King’s permission” (B.
17/3/’27). Two of our stokers deserted when
we were refitting in a Scottish port, and
joined up with a kiltie regiment. They actu-
ally served three months in the line in
France before the long arm of the inexor-
able R.N. located them and dragged them
back to the North Sea. For once a breach
of King’s Regulations was winked at, and
a modest 14 days’ apiece sufficed to wipe out
the “deserters’ ” defection from the senior arm
of the fighting forces in the face of the
enemy.
“Troy”: I was passing along the back
street when the row began. From a distance
I saw the lady enter the front door, and a
moment after several children sped with
immense alacrity into the middle of the
road. Then a teapot hurtled through space,
followed by cups and dishes. By the time
I had reached the house, the presumable
breadwinner, removing tea-leaves from his
face and hair, was making hurried exit.
Inside, his wife, having effectively cleared
the table, was engaged in jumping on the
family pictures. She accounted for most of
them' in quick succession, but for some
reason spared one which hung over the dilapi-
dated dresser. After the police had arrived
and quelled the disturbance by removing the
cause, curiosity led me to examine the work
of art that had escaped. It bore the pertinent
query “What is Home Without a Mother?”
“Saaedi”: The Sydney house-agent had
finished showing his prospective purchaser, a
lady, over a house with which she seemed
well pleased; she only desired to be con-
vinced that it was within easy distance from
the station. “Jump in my car and we’ll
measure it,” suggested Sales. His client
assented, and was helped into the back seat
of the car, the agent and his offsider occupy-
ing the front. The former, who was
driving, engaged his prospective victim in
animated conversation while his assistant
tinkered surreptitiously with the mileage
register. After about half a mile the lady
leaned over the front seat and scanned the
register closely. “How interesting,” she re-
marked sarcastically. “We haven’t started
yet.” The assistant had overdone it.
* * * *
“T. 8.” : A steamer rounds a bend against
the current of the stream. A little girl is
steering with two immense stagliounds stand-
ing alongside her. A couple of pigs are
sniffing round the decks. About a hundred
fowls are roosting on-every available spot,
their wings held out because of the sweltering
heat. Rabbit-skins strung on w r ire are hang-
ing from railings, or are tacked to the wood-
work. A chained cockatoo is' screeching to
its bushmates circling over the boat. It isn’t
a moving zoo, but just a craft on the Mur-
ray. She toils hard against the current, and
eventually enters the Darling. A man stand-
ing on the rail signs me to look at the steam-
er’s name, and when she gets close enough
I see, in newly-painted letters, the word.
“Renown.” “Say, where’s the Duke?” I
call out. “I’m just breaking him in,” comes
the answer. “He’s down below peeling spuds
for the Dookess’s dinner.”
* * * *
“Bihai”: When I first joined the Andrew
Miller (Royal Navy, in lower-deck par-
lance) it was impressed on me that I must
salute the quarter-deck (R. 17/3/’27), be-
cause the Sovereign was present there in
spirit on every ship in commission. My eap-
tain (now a rear-admiral) emphasised this
point in one of his lecturettes to the ship’s
company; during the whole of my service
I never heard any other version. Certainly
it is not the White Ensign which is saluted,
as “X.N.0.” insists, for on many ships the
White Ensign cannot be seen from the q.-d.
Furthermore, boatloads of men, returning
from overnight leave on shore, salute the
q.d. as they come inboard before ever the
White Ensign is hoisted for the day. In
ships where discipline is rigid, the q.-d. must
be saluted each time of stepping upon it.
but in “Callao” or “glass-bottomed” ships!
where men are treated more as human beings
than as automata, a salute when first step-
ping on the sacred spot will usually suffice
for the day. Also, despite what King's
Regulations and Admiralty instructions may
lay down, in actuality “piping the side” is
only carried out for officers of flag rank or
commanding officers in full dress. When a
C.O. leaves or returns to his ship in the ordi-
nary rig of the day, there is no particular
fuss beyond the attendance of the officer of
the day and the standing to attention of
everyone in the vicinity.
* * * *
“Lao-dah" : The herb woman of tradition
is a witchlike hag who creeps forth on nights
when the moon is in a fit and gathers her
simples from the edges of haunted woods.
The herb woman in my suburb is a polite
old lady who lives in a commonplace brick
cottage exactly like its neighbors on the
main road. The high hedge all round the
property is probably less a screen against
public curiosity than a shelter for the trim
cultivation patch in which she raises her
allegedly deadly night-
shades and other subtle
vegetable poisons and
panaceas. It looks
exactly like any otnev
suburban cabbage plot,
and a botanist friend tells
me it contains nothing
more potent or mysteri-
ous than the senna beans
one can buy at any chem-
ist’s shop. Nevertheless,
so great is the demand
for her products that a
cart calls weekly for her
hellebore and henbane
just as it does at the
market gardens for cauli-
flowers and artichokes.
The proprietress is a per-
fectly respectable old dear
who used to be a dairy
farmer, and took to herb-
growing because there
was more money in it.
Exactly how much money
there is in it, for the
Chinese middlemen, at
any rate, few people real-
ise. In a Victorian case
the other day, in which
a herbalist sued an un-
grateful patient, it was
divulged that the victim
of his own gullibility had
already paid £225 and
still owed £llO 15s. for
magic draughts consist-
ing of soups made of the
cheapest common herbs.
plus liquorice powder,
peppermint and suchlike
ingredients of children’s
lolly packets. The dupe
who gulped this down
complained that he had
got no relief from a seri-
ous internal lesion.
“Due de Borax”: I
can assure “Recurrent
Factor” (B. 17/3/’27)
that the naval codes em-
ployed in war-time —-and
I put in 56 months of
war service in naval
wireless stations had
nothing in common with
the “secret lingoes little
boys delight to converse
in.” One system had
grotesque groups of let-
ters arranged like the
words in a dictionary
with their meanings
alongside, with the differ-
ence that every column of
code words was num-
bered downwards. B,v
means of a celluloid strip
of different numbers, this
code was altered out of
recognition daily, recur-
rent factors and all. An-
other device consisted of
different groups of five
figures by which the re-
ceiver would count back-
ward or forward in the
alphabet for the required
letter. There were no
recurrent factors that
mattered there, either, as
the groups were changed daily. H
the code-book fell into the hand oi
an outsider the rest would of course
he easy, hut it was quite common for
a bulky volume to be in and out of force
in a few hours, through becoming "com-
promised” by accident or act of war. _ Inci-
dentally, it was always understood in the
service that our recent visitor, Arthur Hen-
derson. M.P., was the expert at the Admi-
ralty who decoded German signals.
* * * *
“Gilbert Mant” : In October, 1026, a short
story of mine was published in The Bulle-
tin entitled “Paradise Lost.” It concerned
a girl, brought up in the slums, who found
her self-expression in dancing. When a
farmer married her and took her away into
the country, the loneliness and lack of ja® s
drew her back to her old life in the city
The two principal characters were Sally am
Dan. The other day I read in the Cosmo-
politan magazine of November, 192 a. a
story called “Jazz.” The theme was practi-
cally the same as mine, and the two mam
characters were Sally and Dan. The co-
incidence is more striking because my stoi.
was originally conceived in 1923-7-anri
have the early MS. beside me with its hm
title, “Jazz” ! Yet in a court of law I shou
probably have a difficult time in disproiMo
a charge of deliberate plagiarism.
BALLADE OF THE COLORED MACK.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Time was when Sydney streets in rain and
slush
Were infinitely dreary to survey;
There was no color for a painter’s brush
Save dull, repellent drab and muddy grey.
A pall of gloom upon the city lay
Sufficient to induce a mood of black.
I sense the dawning of a brighter day
Now Phyllis wears a brightly-tinted mack.
From ferry, station, ’bus and tram there rush
The petticoated legions on their way.
Some dainty forms one notes in rose a-flush
And some in green that shimmers through
the spray.
Wise girls! They read wliat Mares has
got to say
Ere from suburban homes they hit the track,
And even rain’s not all discomfort —eh? —•
When Phyllis has a fetching-colored mack.
The butterflies whose garb is Nature’s plush
Their radiant hues must in the sun display
And fold their gorgeous wings in bough or
brush
When skies are overcast or storms dismay.
Our human lepidoptera, happier they,
Can shine the brighter for all color’s lack
In sky and earth, save that of slate and
clay.
Now Phyllis drapes her in a violet mack!
Envoy.
Soon may the leaden floodgates cease to gush,
The rainbow flaunt aloft its pigment-stack.
Can it outdo the pavement’s streaming crush
Now Phyllis has a bravely-colored mack?
N.S.W.
MIDFORD.


r
Na X3fi
m
m
4
CA
nS'
m
r O v: 4f rr»..- 0
\
«4S
ir >
;\
M
*
w&
m
i
agaigw •
!
ftbs^-re
•aBP??s§p@§
r
ps
2r*
Ses
mat
m
m
mm
■
’
<r
ms
(i»R((W
, Xv.VvW«v.-.v/ti .
■’•'Vi^yfe
S"M&
m
OVAL
HEAVY WEIGHTS
Tins of 25 and 50.
TINS OF 25- 1/5 TINS OF 50- 2/9


r
ALWAYS ORDER
Schweppes’
Dry Ginger Ale
the Only Original.
REFUSE SUBSTITUTES
AND IMITATIONS.
Manufactured only by
Schweppes, Limited.
EVER-READY
mt." 11 !'"" V ■/''//*
v m
FOR ALL
EMERGENCIES-
NEVER FAIL
r
Look Cmr the Trademark! Ag»ni» Evcryakdti
Write for Illustrated Catalogue.
The Ever-Ready Co. (Gt. Britain! Ltd.
163 Pin Street, Sydney
Usher’s Hotel Ltd
Castlereagh Street, Sydney.
A first-class new and up-to-date
modern hotel.
Running hot and cold water in all b3d-
rooms and many have Bath de Luxe.
Automatic bedside telephones.
English and Trench Cuisine.
New Marble Bar, spacious and airy.
For perfection of service, comfort
and cleanliness, Usher’s Ltd. is un-
equalled.
Inclusive Terms, apply
MANAGER.
“Hash-Hish”: Tasman Island, off the
south-east coast of the Speck, is an outcrop
of precipitous rocks exposed to the full
force of the Pacific. The only permanent
residents are the three lighthouse-keepers and
their families. While riggers were engaged
in installing a new crane for hoisting stores
to the lighthouse, the structure collapsed.
One man was thrown on to the rocks below
and killed instantly; another was seriously
injured. There is no wireless installation
on the island, so some carrier-pigeons (kept
for such an emergency ) were loosed to send a
call to Hobart for medical assistance, but the
birds never arrived; it is conjectured they
were killed by hawks. Some 15 hours later
BEING UNCERTAIN ABOUT WHAT TO WEAR, THE DUKE
DOES HIS BEST TO PLEASE EVERYBODY.
the. Port Hunter passed the lighthouse and
noticed a signal of distress flying; it was too
rough for her to send a boat ashore, but a
message was conveyed to her by flag signals
and she transmitted it to Hobart, where it
was picked up by one of the warships in the
harbor.. The river steamer Cartela was
requisitioned and a doctor conveyed to the
island in record time, and landed with a
good deal of danger and difficulty. As the
crane had collapsed, he had to scramble lip
the, face of the cliff to the lighthouse, assisted
by ropes from above. After that such a gale
came up that the Cartela bad to run for
FIRST PREFERENCE.
“Don’t you just love the ‘Volga Boat Son g’?”
“Oh, yes, hut I think there’s more in ‘Paddlin’ Madalein Home.’ ”
shelter, and neither doctor nor patient could
be taken off till next day, when the injured
man was duly conveyed to hospital.
* * * *
“Lao-dah”: A man of my acquaintance
never wakes up mentally till eight o’clock at
night. From then until so lons- as he can
get anyone to sit up with him, he shows him-
self a sociable, lively and intelligent com-
panion. During the daylight hours he is
second cousin to a moron, and probably be-
cause of this disability he has drifted into
a poorly-paid night job. Did he have more
owls, fruit bats or wombats for ancestors
than the average person?
* * * *
“Clerk” : The first steel dining-car to run
in Australia, the Avoca, is undergoing its
preliminary trials
in Victoria. It
was designed in
Clapp’s drawing-
offices and built at
Newport. About
75 per cent, of its
material and the
whole of its work-
manship is Austra-
lian. It is 73ft.
long and 10ft.
wide, will seat 48
diners, is fitted
with anti-telescop-
ing brackets, and
would not splinter
or burn in an acci-
dent. The kitchen
is equipped with a
coal-burning stove
and coke griller,
and all wooden fur-
nishings are of
Australian maple.
The car will be
used for the first
time on the Duke’s
train. It is the
forerunner of other
steel cars to be
built by the Vie. railways for inter-State
traffic in the next three or four years,
* * * *
“Rlieingelder” : It’s not often that a snake
is the subject of a prosecution for stealing,
but in Brisbane the other day a boatshed
proprietor charged a garage conductor with
pinching a large carpet-snake and converting
the reptile to liis own use. The case for the
prosecution was that the snake was kept
as a pet in the boathouse, and that the
defendant had abstracted it and employed it
as a rat-catcher in his garage. Defendant
said he had been looking for an assistant
snake to supplement one he already em-
ployed, and having found this one wander-
ing near the boatshed had engaged it. No
evidence as to brands or earmarks was pro-
duced, but the P.M. convicted, and fined
defendant 55., with costs. The snake was
ordered to be returned to its owner, who
would do well to hobble it in future.
* * * *
“Birre Gurra”: The one bright spot in
the stodgy proceedings of a civic reception
accorded the Governor-General at Longreach
(Q.) occurred when the infant who had
been deputed to present a bouquet to the
Governor’s lady ambled up and (the care-
ful coachings of teachers and parents for-
gotten in the stress of the moment) addressed
her Excellency as “Missus Stone’enge!”
“Nakhoda”: Pedestrians in Swanston-
street, Melbourne, the other day, were seen
to stop, as if struck, opposite a certain
butcher’s shop and then turn and bolt with
their handkerchiefs to their noses. The
ribald were inclined to attribute the phe-
nomenon to the quality of the meat in the
window until an old lady was seen to col-
lapse altogether, an effect not usually pro-
duced even by the ripest piece of pluck. The
explanation was a burst ammonia pipe in
the basement, which was pouring an invis-
ible death ray across the pavement from a
skylight. It smote one like a bar of iron.
A badly-burnt butcher was the only casualty,
and a fireman in a gas-helmet stopped the
leak.
* * * *
“Bihai”: The famous “Rum Corps” (B.
17/3/’27) was stationed at Wiseman’s Ferry
in the early years of last century to guard
the convicts employed in making the Great
North Road to Maitland. One Solomon
Wiseman was appointed superintendent of the
convict road gangs. Also he was given the
contract for the supply of the workmen’s
food, and became a wealthy man thereby.
On the hill overlooking this pioneer’s estate
at Wiseman’s Ferry was the Court House
cave, where the first magistrate, David Dun-
lop, dispensed justice; and across the river
was Judgment Rock, where several hangings
took place. On both sides of the river were
stockades where the chain-gangs were quar-
tered, with the red-coated soldiers of the
Rum Corps to look after them. Solomon’s
surname is still borne by a good many Aus-
tralian descendants. One is or lately was a
hard-worked and ill-paid Sydney suburban
curate.
***■}{■
“Birre Gurra”: During a drought in
Western Queensland a station manager re-
ceived a telegram from his Melbourne
employers asking for a report concerning the
cattle which remained alive. The report
was duly forwarded in the form of a parcel
weighing several pounds. Two lines of writ-
ing ran : “The enclosed is all that remained
at Mount Marlowe to remind me that cattle
once existed here.” The enclosed was a
dilapidated bullock-bell.
* * * *
“Uramao” : Methodism in Maoriland cele-
brated its centenary on March 16 at Man-
gunga, on the Hokianga liiver, where the
first mission station was established in 1827
by Rev. John Ilobbs, after a few years of
unorganised warfare against Satan for the
benefit of Brown Brother waged by this min-
ister and the Rev. Samuel Leigh. On the site
of the original mission station, a Celtic cross
on a granite base, in wdiich is set the bell
that summoned dusky worshippers to devo-
tions 100 years ago, will commemorate the
event.
* * * *
“Strict Veg.”: St. Paul’s, Melbourne, is
marching with the times. The other Sunday
worshippers in the back of the big building
heard the voice of the preacher satisfactorily
for the first time, while those amidships
heard two voices, the speaker’s own and a
rather disconcerting echo. Eight loud-
speakers, like the trumpets before Jericho,
performed the miracle; also there were two
microphones, one of which amplified the ser-
mon for local consumption, while the other
disseminated it about the State and, no doubt,
to the heathen in his blindness in the South
Sea islands. The innovation recalls the sub-
stitution of electric fans for sweating coolies
pulling punkahs above the worshippers in the
Anglican Cathedral at Singapore. One
wealthy parishioner opposed the suggestion
on the ground that the spectacle of the half-
naked Tamils toiling at the ropes helped one
to remember the transiency of worldly riches.
* * * *
“Nakhoda” : An old Malay who has never
spoken his own language lives in a charit-
able institution in Melbourne. Eighty years
ago a Union steamer picked him up in the
bottom of a drifting dugout in the South
Pacific. He was given the name of the
commander, learnt English, and, after serving
his rescuer for some time, ended on the water-
front at Melbourne. He was luckier than
hundreds of his fellows who get blown to
sea annually without being picked up. I
was once on a P. and O. liner which pulled
up in response to signals of distress hoisted
HE KNEW ’EM.
“Gan you keep a secret, Midge?”
“Why, yes, of course.”
“Oh, then, it’s no use telling you—you
wouldn’t get any pleasure out of it!”
by a nigger, dhow SOO miles off the east
coast of Africa. Their clumsy box couldn’t
work to windward, the south-west monsoon
was blowing and would continue to blow
for several months, the nearest land was
2000 miles to leeward. Yet all the Malays
asked for was a little water. I have often
wondered how they ended.
ITCHY FEET.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
When my father died, a widower, in a mean
and dirty street,
There was little he bequeathed me but a
pair of restless feet.
So one morning, bright and early, down I
wandered to the quay
And I saw a coaster loading, and I shipped
away to sea.
But the rolling and the pitching
Never cured my feet from itching,
Itching, ever itching, to move on.
I stayed at sailorising, though I changed
from run to run,
Till away in Serajevo somebody fired off a
gun.
Then I trudged along the trenches, tramped
through Flanders’ mud and sleet.
Till some bits of German shrapnel came and
hit me in the feet.
Surgeons mended them with stitching,
But they couldn’t stop them itching,
Itching, ever itching, to move on.
When .the war at last was over I’d another
wander round,
Doing odd jobs as I found them, earning
here and there a pound—
Fencing, milking, ploughing, navvying,
sleeper-getting, cutting cane—
Till I tired of terra firma and I sought the
sea again.
Digging, sinking shafts or ditching,
Still my feet were always itching,
Itching, ever itching, to move on.
In the islands fiction-writers are entranced
with now I’m found
Where you sniff the smell of copra, and you
hear the slumbrous sound
Of the surf upon the coral and the wind
amongst the trees.
(Casuarinas, swishing softly, in the gentle
south-east breeze).
But the languor so bewitching
Cannot stop my feet from itching,
Itching, ever itching, to move on.
Time for me to get a move on, singing “Leave
Her, Johnny, O !”
Whither? How do I know? China? Mada-
gascar? Mexico?
But I’ll board the next tramp sailing—she
will take me somewhere sure,
Take me roving, searching, even if I never
find a cure _
Which will keep’ my feet from itching
(For this travel’s not enriching),
Itching, ever itching, to move on.
NEW GUINEA.
ALSO RAN.


IMPORTANT
*#
tsonfslv
ANNOUNCEMENT.
LAB El.
COLD
****“*** or SCOTCH WMSKT..
vdimlnvrgh/. tw«\
'<*&»?? TotaredM*
produced in seoT*- AH ‘ >
Recognising that only the best will satisfy
the patrons of
“ KING GEORGE IV”
The Distillers Agency, Ltd., have taken
advantage of the larger stocks of fine
Old Scotch Whisky now available to
substitute for their well known Top
Notch” Brand a new
SUPERFINE
“GOLD LABEL”
Quality, which can be confidently said
to be unequalled in any market of the
world.
The accompanying illustration will show
the get-up of the new brand, which is
now obtainable from all Merchants and
Hotels at the same price as ruled for
“Top Notch.”
The Distillers Agency, Ltd
EDINBURGH - - - SCOTLAND
MELBOURNE --- SYDNEY --- ADELAIDE --- PERTH


METROVICK
HIGH TORQUE
HIGH EFFICIENCY
ŗ
SQUIRREL CAGE
INDUCTION MOTORS
ř
The leading features of our C.K.R. Motors
may be briefly summarised as follows :
1. Tjow initial cost.
2. Robustness.
3. High starting torque.
4. High efficiency.
5. Quick starting.
6. Rower starting current.
7. Reduced slip.
Melbourne, Sydney, Adelaide,
Brisbane and Wellington (N.Z.).
NOBEL-GLASGOW EXPLOSIVES.
The Standard of Quality throughout the Empire.
Monobel
Samsonite
Gelatine Dynamite
Gelignite
Blasting Gelatine
Dynamite
Safety Fuse
Detonators
Cartridges
Road-Maker
and Crop-Raiser
The Martin Ditcher
Builds, Repairs and Maintains
Roads; Ditches, Terraces, Grades,
Levels, Fills In, Reclaims, Irrigates.
Exton House, Queen Street, Brisbane.
499 Little Collins Street, Melbourne.
T.T. BTgs, Light Square, Adelaide.
Queen Street, Perth.
'TVS
l
Write
to
Desk B.
r
Challis House, Martin Place, Sydney.
The WILD CAT
COLUMN
Howard Smith, Ltd., proprietors of coal
and shipping and other interests: —
, Dividends-
Pref. To Re-
Dec., Profits. 6 p.c. Ord. Reserves, serves.
1916.. 449 30,000 10 p.c.= 147,169 44,280 57,833
1917.. 195 30,00010 „ „ 148,597 18,598 76,431
1918.. 794 30,000 10 ~ „ 149.790 17,004 93,435
1919.. 201.823 30,000 10 „ „ 150.(100 21,823 115,258
Dropped into reserves, £523,456 .. 638,714
1920.. 265.880 30,000 15 p.c.= 225,000 10,880 649,594
1921.. 784 30,000 15 „ „ 225,000 5,784 658,378
Pref. capital ( £500,000) returned;
1922.. 256.272 24,534 15 p.e.= 225,000 6,738 665,116
Profits. Ordinaries.
1923.. 189,410 15 p.c. = 225,000 629,526
Reserve capitalised, £500,000 . . .. 129',526
1924.. 265,464 12 p.c. = 240,000 25,464 154,990
Profit on liquidation of subsidiaries £91,976 246,966
1925.. 221,041 10 p.c. = 200,000 21,041 268,007
Taxation reserves taken in, £lO,OOO .. 278,007
1926.. 211,608 10 p.c. = 200,000 11,608 289,615
Howard Smith’s is a holding co.. but it turns
an honest pound or two as manager and agent
for some smaller concerns in which it is
interested. As to what the latter bring in.
the accounts, of course, say nothing. They
say very little about anything. Chief source
of profits is the old Howard-Smitli line, now
Australian Steamships. Ltd. Other sources
of last year’s £211,608 were:—
Caledonian Collieries
Invincible C'plliery
Australian Sugar Co.
Brisbane Wharves Ltd.
Commonwealth Steel Products
Other cos.
Interest from Government and other debentures.
Earnings as managing agent.
The co. holds all the shares in Australian
Steam, but as that concern publishes no
accounts it is impossible to ascertain its
contribution. It must have had a prosperous
12 months. Its last published accounts before
it disappeared from public view showed paid
capital of ±839,623, and. as that was prior
to the bloated profits of the war years, it
may be taken that its stock represents the
greater part of the £2,435,688 at which the
parent values its “shares in other cos.” Cer-
tainly it is the chief suspect in the matter of
the capitalisation of reserves or writing up
of assets or both that happened in 1920. The
holding in Caledonian Collieries —capital
£1,487,894—is about a million. As the public
is interested in this huge coal-winner,
accounts are published, but they disclose very
little. Invincible does the same thing. In
1925 £91,976 was received as return of capi-
tal from some small subsidiaries which had
been liquidated. The fact that that amount
was added to reserves shows that the parent
had, or then believed it had, undervalued its
investments by that amount at least. Not-
withstanding that movement the book value
increased £20,625 to £2,463,734. Last year
the item was £28,000-odd less at £2,435,688;
but, in accordance with custom, no hint is
given by way of explanation.
Reserves, for a holding co., are substantial.
A taxation reserve appeared in 1925, but has
now been merged with the general fund. In
addition to the visible accumulation of the
parent it is most unlikely that Australian
Steam lias distributed all its profits, and
Caledonian Coal has more than £lOO,OOO
visibly laid aside, though the reserves of a
coal co. don’t always means what they say.
It doesn’t, moreover, follow that no part of
these reserves of subsidiaries has been taken
into account. The “shares in other cos.” are
included “at valuation,” and in this valua-
tion reserves may be included, though it isn’t
likely. The liquid position at December 31
showed improvement:—
1924. 1925. 1926.
Liquid assets .. £347,716 £331,432 £438,796
Liabilities .. 674,002 583,526 644,717
i
Excess liabilities £326,286 £252,094 £205,921
Assets other than book debts and shares in
other cos. consist of freehold property
£89,869. leaseholds £11,925, plant £58,054,
stocks £69.711, cash and public securities
£39,134.
Apparently the market considers the possi-
bilities worth quite a lot. There is in this
a fair amount of optimism, because the half-
million issued in bonus shares had its basis
in tlie huge profits of tlie war years. On the
other hand accounts of the majority of Aus-
tralian shipping cos. indicate that, strength-
ened by past easy going, they have, of late,
been able to show very nice profits. Certainly
Howard-Smith control is worth a lot, and it
is plain that the market is counting that
fact in to the full. Later* price ex div. was
about 31s. The visible assets are worth a
shade under 235.
* * * *
Caledonian Collieries. Ltd.: —
f —Dividends.— Nominal
Net Pref. To Re- Re-
Profits. 6 p.c. Ord. serves, serves.
£ £ £ £ £
1916.. 17,192 15,150 Nil 2,042 62,056
1917.. 59.131 16,224 6 p.c.=38.148 4.759 66,815
1918.. 77,666 21,935 6 „„ 49,570 6,161 72,976
1919.. 71,631 21,935 6 „ ~49,570 126 73,102
(8 p.c.)
1920. .133,218 29,247 10 „ ~ 82,617 21,354 94,456
Totai Div.
1921. .147.790 8 p.c. 12 p.c. =146,250 1,540 95.996
1922. .130,266 8 „ 9 „„ 129,268 998 96,994
1923.. 79,540 6 ~ 5 „ „ 79,038 502 97,496
1924.. 93,842 6 ~ 6 „„ 89,274 4,568102,064
1925.. 89,242 6 „ 6 „ „ 89,274 102,0.32
1920.. 76,147 6 „ 4 „ „ 68,802 7,345 109,377
Australia’s greatest coal-owner had another
lean experience last year. Shareholders re-
ceived 4 p.c., the hungriest div. since this
Howard-Smitli offshoot took over the old
Caledonian Coal Co. in 1913. Prefs. received
their 6 p.c.—they go with ordinaries to 8
p.c. The co. has never done as well as has
been expected of it. Despite the value of
the Howard-Smith control, and possession of
well-equipped mines on one of the best coal-
fields in the world, its distributions have
been disappointing. The co. has been sus-
pected of hiding things, and certainly over a
number of years it has been obviously draw-
ing on profits for equipment and develop-
ment work. But its board, which is com-
pletely Howard-Smith in personnel, says as
little in its accounts and report as it docs in
those of the big holding concern. The col-
liery engine-drivers’ strike adversely affected
profits last term, and Caledonian had troubles
of its own. Their effect was evidently very
considerable judged by the reduction in not
earnings. No profit and loss is published, a
bare balance for tlie year being shown.
The following comparison goes back to the
eo.’s first year :
1913. 1923. 1925. 1926.
Pref. capital. . £252,500 £464,295 £464,295 £464,295
Orel, capital. . 600,007 1,023,599 1,023,599 1,023,599
Creditors .. 39,710 188,930 208,399 j Qf7 .
Overdraft . . 16,671 39,021 ] rf^b ’»74
Collieries, etc.. .904,904 1,645,29 S 1,660,600 1,774,382
Stores . . 14,734 103,724 58,032 55,552
Coal stocks .. 8,868 6,306 10,470 8,868
Rook debts . . 41,108 48,662 86,069 74,181
Shares . . 51,302 51,302 51,302
Cash, etc. . . 1,801 809 632 14,733
Since 1913 mine properties and fixed assets
have grown by £869,478. In that period,
however, new capital amounting to £635,387
has been raised. The book value of the pits
and plant does not appear to overstate things.
Not only are there the old collieries on the
Newcastle fields —although expensive to work
they are still good mines—but there are the
four Aberdares, the best pits in the north,
working on the Greta seam where the coal
can be won easily. In 1924 and 1925 elec-
tric winding machinery was installed at
Aberdares Central and South and £lOO,OOO
was expended on a central power-house. This
should complete tlie large-scale expenditure;
and shareholders have a right to expect some-
thing better now that the heavy outlay on
development appears to have been ended.
There is. naturally, the uncertain quantity of
labor, but that is common to all cos. operat-
ing in the industry, and there have not been
wanting signs that the miners are at last
awakening to the boomerang nature of the
incessant and irritating strikes. True pro-
fits are dependent, of course, on the ade-
quacy of the allowance for amortisation and
depreciation. The market is apparently con-
tent to accept the Howard-Smith control as
sufficient guarantee in this respect.; the big
concern, which doesn’t build for a day, is not
likely to neglect making every safeguard
before it discloses the amount available for
distribution. The fact that sellers are ask-
ing 225. 9d. (last sale was at 215.) indi-
cates an optimistic view of the future: some- ■
thing better than 4 p.c. is expected. Past
disappointments make forecasting an unfruit-
ful pastime, but the outlook seems brighter.
* * * *
The British Tobacco Co. (Australia),
Ltd.
, Dividends ,
6 p.c. To Re- Re-
Profits. Pref. Ordinary. serves, serves.
Jun., £ £ £ £ £
1916.. 538,532 89,084 12 p.c.= 443,495 5953 30,45]
1917.. 536,974 89,084 12 ~ „ 447,175 715 31,166
1918.. 539,543 89,084 12 ~ „ 449,562 897 32,063
1919.. 541,951 89,084 12 „ „ 451.762 1105 33.168
1920.. 544.773 89,084 12 „ „ 454,587 1102 34.270
1921.. 552.979 89,084 12 .. ~ 491,987 1908 36,178
Special div. from subsidiaries. £628,591.
distributed as bonus shares.
1922.. 751,373 59,084 12 p.c.= 661,067 1222 37,400
1923.. 773.202 89,084 12 „ ~ 682,400 1718 39 118
1924.. 776,535 59.084 12 ~ ~ 685.844 1607 40,725
1925.. 779,452 89,084 12 „ ~ 089,034 1334 42,059
1926.. 783,453 89,084 12 ~ ~ 692,684 1085 43,744
1927.. 786,870 89,084 12 ~ „ 696,354 1438 45,182
Each year’s figures are just a trifle more
than tlie amount necessary to pay prefs. their
0 p.c. and give 12 p.c. to ordinaries in quar-
terly instalments. Each year the directors
report that the business continues to make
satisfactory progress, and that the annual
figures .do not include the co.’s interest in
the undivided profits of tlie subsidiaries. It is
this interest which intrigues the market. Six
years ago a special div. from the subsidiaries
amounting to £628,591 was handed out in gift
scrip, and the prices which buyers are pre-
pared to give—recent sales were at 525. 3d.—
show that an encore is expected soon. As
actual profits of the business are not dis-
closed and those inside don’t belong to any
broadcasting station, the expectations are
governed by the belief that the huge organ-
isation is doing so well that a further issue
—or issues—is inevitable. Last distribution
was on the basis of one to eight; to dupli-
cate that effort would call for £726,291.
Trade conditions have been favorable of late
and that has added more than a trifle. But
in any case “smokes” are a necessity and
the lean years affect British Tobacco less
than most, which fact, of course, adds to the
attractiveness of the scrip.
Creditors and creditor balances at £55,501
were within a few pounds of the previous
year. Assets w T ere :
Shares in subsidiary cos. (book value) .. £5,398,061
Commonwealth loans .. .. .. 350,000
Debtors and debit balances .. .. 1,635,356
Cash 12,320.
What is in the debit and credit balances can
only be guessed at. During the 12 months 'a
quarter-million was placed in Commonwealth
stock, making £350,000 so held. That sug-
gests that tlie co and its subsidiaries have
more money than they can find ready use for.
A year ago the chairman stated that the sub-
sidiaries had engaged one of the leading
American authorities on leaf cultivation to
investigate conditions in N. S. Wales and
Victoria. In addition, two of their own
experts had spent a year in America, and
their services were at the disposal of local
growers. If the big concern will swing the
knowledge of its specialists and its financial
weight into the development of the tobacco-
growing industry in Australia it will have
removed one recurring complaint from poli-
ticians eager to attack anything which oper-
ates on a large scale. At 525. 3d. the ordi-
nary shares show a return of only £4 11s. 9d.
p.c. If there was a bonus issue of one in
eight the return on the investment would be
thereby increased to £5 3s. p.c. The first
table shows that there has been a steady
though not large increase of capital during
the last few years. But ordinary shareholders
have not benefited. It has gone to the
employees, who participate in a fine profit-
sharing scheme as well as many other social-
welfare benefits.
* * * *
R. H. Gordon and Co., Ltd., furniture
and time-payment salesmen, etc. (Sydney) :
Dividends.
Pref. To Re Re-
Dec., Profits. 6 p.c. Ord. serves, serves.
£ £ £ £ £
1916.. 20,394 1200 10 p.c. = 12,000 7,194 35,080
1917.. 30,465 1200 HI,, ~13,500 15,765 50,845
Transferred to capital, £20,000 .. 30,845
1918.. 30,186 1200 15 p.c. = 21,000 7,986 38,831
loin j 31,096 1200 15 „ ~21,000 8,896 47,727
• (Transferred to capital, £40,000 .. 7,727
[ Internal reserves disclosed and other 1
iQ9o j additions to reserves, £32,721 I , m .
' ) Reserves capitalised, £36,000 [
[28,766 1200 12* p.c.=27,000 566 J
1921.. 40,612 1200 12* „ ~ 27,000 12,412 17,426
1922.. 41,338 1200 12* „ ~27,048 13,090 30,516
£36,000 of internal reserves disclosed and capitalised.
1923. . 46,600 1200 12| p.c.=31,642 13,758 44,274
1924.. 49,464 1200 12* „ ~ 31,805 16,459 60,733
1925.. 57,842 1200 14" „ ~35,728 20,914 81,647
£50,400 of internal reserves disclosed and capitalised.
1926.. 64,131 1200 15 p.c. = 42.480 20,451 102,098
Little wonder there has been such a growth
of t.-p. cos. when the brilliant career of R.
H. Gordon and Co. is available to tempt, the
fancy of company promoters. Disclosure of
internal reserves and transfers to capital
have become almost regular features ; remark-
able as have been the gift-givings, the co. has
shown on the last two occasions no visible
impoverishment of reserves. And not alone
that, but there is no reason to believe that
the whole of the contents of the family stock-
ing has been brought into daylight even now :
last year’s gift distribution amounted to
£50,400, that sum “being part of the inner
reserves of the co.” Shareholders benefited then
to the extent of one fully-paid for every five
held. The accounts claim profits for the 12
months of £44,575. but that ignores additions
made to reserves during the period, which
amounts are included in the figures of the
introductory table. Here are the doings for
the past 10 years
Profit as per Unexplained
P. and L. Additions to
Account. Reserves.
1916 .. £15,133 £5,261
1917 . . .. 15,895 14.570
1918 .. .. 22,644 7.542
1919 .. .. 26,132 6,964
1921 .. .. 29,682 11,430
1922 .. .. 29,800 11.538
1923 .. .. 34,125 12,475
1924 .. .. 36,069 12,795
1925 .. .. 39,479 18,364
1926 .. .. 44.575 19,556
Such considerable amounts thrown casually
into visible accumulations is evidence of the
co.’s remarkable freedom from mishaps for
which provision had been made. The ques-
tion remains whether that freedom lias not
been due to the extra-prosperous conditions
of the country. If it has. then, of course, we
must look for a change some day. In any
case, as capital increases it becomes more
difficult to maintain the old rate of profit-
earning. In its earlier years the eo. traded
from a modest building, most of its activities
being with its orders through other houses.
In 1925 a big citv freehold was purchased at
the cost of approximately £lOO,OOO. Not
only was that a substantial sum to sink in
bricks and mortar, but it carried with it the
necessity of stocking a big floor space, and
some of that stock, obviously, must be ex-
pected to move slowly.
The mixing of stock with hire agreements
makes it difficult to follow the co.’s progress
very closely; but here are some recent com-
parisons :
1920. 1924. 1926.
Sundry creditors, etc. .. £39,915 £40,815 £4l 711
Overdraft 12,84 9 19,182 342
Property and plant . . 28,399 14,152 118,409
Stock and hire agreements 72,090 107.376 212,301
Book debts 82,88 7 84,867 97,678
Shares, debentures and short
loans 62,813 123,046 1 Qn ...
Mortgages 43,445 85,525 ) BU,UB
Government securities .. 19,895 19,744
Cash, etc 200 274 690
Building went up by £5439; extensive addi-
tions and alterations were made during the
year to permit of greater facilities for trad-
ing. As the report states that “ample pro-
vision has been made against possible depre-
ciation of assets,” it may be taken that the
addition does not overstate the position. Rook
debts increased by £33,563, and there was a
slight decrease in shares, short loans and
mortgages. What is contained in that mix-
ture might be made clearer.
Shareholders have had a wonderful time.
Of paid capital of £326,850 (including 4450
employees’ shares), as far as can be seen the
public has put up in cash only £89,306. And
in addition to rich divs. and the bonus shares,
£102.098 has been accumulated apart from
what is hidden. Buyers are seeking shares?
at 495. 6d. without any response. On this
basis the market values the goodwill at
about £400.000, and is prepared, in short, to
pay almost as much for the co.’s trading
name and connection as for its tangible
assets.
* * * *
Sydney Exchange Co.: —
Writ- To
ten Re- Re-
Profits. Dividends. Off. serves, serves.
£ £ £ £ £
June, 1920.. 1001 6 p.c. = 900 269 - 13,110
Dec., 1920.. 1578 6 „ „ 900 491 187 13,297
June, 1921.. 957 6 „ „ 900 57 13,354
Dec., 1921.. 1753 6 „ „ 900 16 1 69 2 14,040
June, 1922.. 957 6 ~ „ 900 57 14.103
Dec., 1922.. 2080 7 „ ~ 1050 575 455 14,558
June, 1923.. 1271 7 „ ~1050 230 14,549
Dec., 1923.. 2360 8 „ „ 1200 1160 15,709
June, 1924.. 1323 8 „ ~ 1200 123 15.832
Dec.. 1924.. 2678 8 „ ~ 1200 1478 17,310
June, 1925.. 1144 8 „ „ 1200 17,254
Dec., 1925.. 2658 8 ~ ~ 1200 1488 18,742
June, 1926.. 1371 8 „ ~1200 171 18,913
Dec., 1926.. 2775 8 ~ ~1200 • 1575 20,488
Ten years ago the Exchange property was
written down from £69,000 to £55,000, since
when it has stood unaltered in the books,
although the increment in values has made
the block—a hotel building forms part of it
—worth perhaps twice as much. (An average
10 p.c. annual increment for the past 10
years is a fair estimate for the city of Syd-
ney. Suburbs have varied from nothing or
thereabouts to 20 p.c. p.a. or thereabouts.)
Were revenue the .only aim, the building
could have been handled much more profit-
ably, but the Royal Exchange is a part of
the commercial life of the city, and the
board is content with little better than
bank interest. For 20 years the div. was
a modest 6 p.c., and only since 1923 has
8 p.c. been paid. In addition to the sub-
stantial inner reserve the visible lay-by has
been _ steadily added to. Apart from the
building the balance-sheet position is:—
1 Q 1 Q I 1 QOfv IQOfi
Liabilities.. .. £16.292 £13,573 £8,432 £8.558
Liquid assets . . 4,716 5,482 3,374 5,246
Excess liabilities £11,576 £8,091 £5,058 £3,312
In 1925 £12,000 of debentures fell due:
£5OOO was paid off, and the balance renewed
for five years. Revenue comes from rentals
and members’ subscriptions, which last
year amounted to £12,047, of which expen-
diture absorbed £BOO2. Shares rarely come
into the market, and when they do they com-
mand fancy prices. Last sale sighted of the
£lO shares, was at £22.
* * * *
Automobile Finance Co. of Australia.
Ltd. (Melb.) —Although the co. did not start
financing until August, 1924. it moved freely
as soon as capital began to flow in, and last
year shareholders got their first div. No
difficulty has been experienced in raising
funds. The 1925 accounts showed paid capi-
tal of £78,366, 187,275 shares being in vari-
ous stages of payment. At December 31 last
capital had increased to £131.110 in 13,600 S
p.c. prefs. paid to 10s. and 280,490 ordi-
naries (including the promoters’ 1500 fully
paids) ranging from ss. to 10s. paid, with
some calls outstanding and more paid in
advance. In addition to its own money the
co. went outside for £80,069, that sum repre-
senting deposits and the bank overdraft.
Demand for accommodation is keen, and the
management has had no trouble in utilising
funds—“advances for the year exceeded


THE HEN CONSIDERS THE POSITION.
"The Labor party suffered a severe set-back in the elections here on Saturday; it was made obvious that large numbers of the rank and file realise that they have
latrarly been putting too much dependence on Parliamentary action and too little on personal effort ."-Adelaide message.
THE HEN: “One egg doesn’t look much, certainly; but perhaps I’d better set on it. I know it IS an egg, because I laid it myself; the others look a bit
like stones.”


Don’t Lose Your
MONEY!
The
“ 'Wild Cat' Monthly"
Analyses the Position of Companies
and Stocks and Discusses New Issues.
The Story of Holden’s
April Number Published Saturday,
April 2.
SINGLE COPY, 2/-
PER ANNUM, 22/6.
From
Principal Newsagents,
or
“The Bulletin” Offices,
Sydney or Melbourne.
We stock -f- GF Malleable Fittings to suit
every requirement, and as there are over 7600
varieties to choose from, we can accommodate aar
trade. For water, steam or gas. Will not split or
crack, and are correct in every detail. Obtainable
from William Adams & Co., Ltd., Sole Agents,
Sydney, Newcastle, Melbourne, Brisbane, Adelaide,
Perth.— Advt.
* # * *
Consistent full flow delivery in any water system
demands the highest efficiency in pipe construction,
and experienced engineers throughout the Common-
wealth find that Pioneer Wood Pipe is without
equal for permanent, cost-free water-mains. It cannot
rust, corrode nor choke with interior growths, and is
totally unaffected by frosts or electrolysis. If you
are contemplating the installation of a water system
do not fail to investigate the merits of Pioneer Wood
Pipe. Illustrated booklet free on application. The
Australian Wood Pipe Co., Ltd., Burns Bay Road,
Lane Cove, N.S.W. — Advt.
* * * *
WIRE ROPES—AUSTRALIAN MADE—Prices and
particulars from Bullivants’ Australian Co., Ltd.,
331-333 Kent Street, Sydney; B. K. Morton Pro-
prietary, Ltd., 85 Clarence Street, Sydney; J. R-
Reid and Sons, 401-403 Kent Street, Sydney, Success-
fully used all over the Commonwealth for all pur-
poses.— Advt.
* * * *
Inventors. —Have you an idea worth patenting?
Griffith & Hassel, Patent Attorney, 77 Castlercagli
Street, Sydney, obtain Commonwealth and foreign
patents. — Advt.
* • * *
IDEAS —Commonwealth and Foreign Patents
obtained. Colhson & Co., 483 Collins Street, Mel-
bourne, and Adelaide. Thirty years’ practice. Write
us for Inventors’ Guide.— Advt.
* * * •
If you are a producer of ores, mattes, metals and
metalliferous residues of any kind, Burkard and
Co., Ltd., 26-30 Bridge Street, Sydney, are buyers
for U.lv., Continent of Europe and U.S.A. smelter?,
and will pay you the highest prices and give you
best terms. Advances made against ore—and market
information, prices, assays at your disposal. Send
samples and particulars.— Advt.
* * * *
Leplastriers’ Concrete Mixers — of all necessary
sizes—are designed and manufactured in Australia by
expert engineers. Apply Goldsbrough House, Sydney;
Collins House, Melbourne; 164 Edward Street, Bris
bane; or 21 Morphett Street, Adelaide. — Advt.
The Mutual Life and Citizens’
Assurance Co. Ltd.
The "M.L.C.”
Probate Contract.
THE INVESTMENT TO MEET THE
INEVITABLE DEATH DUTIES.
As a man’s wealth accumulates he
should assist his executors by taking out
one of these contracts. They are issued
on a basis highly profitable to his estate,
besides providing the necessary cash to
meet the very substantial Death Duties
(State or Federal) on deceased estates,
without disturbing existing investments,
or necessitating heavy borrowing for
the purpose, a course which is bound
to involve a lengthy delay in the distri-
bution of the estate to the Legatees.
JOHN J. GARVAN,
Managing Director.
6*
O
, boord^son
FINEST DRY GIN
&. OLD TOM
m
DT
Swift & Company Ltd.. Australasian Agents. 26 30 Clarence St.. Sydney
Insure with the
Australian Mutual Fire Insurance Society, Limited.
ESTABLISHED 1872.
Head Offices Dalton House, 115 Pitt Street Sydney.
The Oldest Mutual Fire Office in Australia.
Support the Australian Company which invests all its Funds in Australia.
Losses from Fire. Marine, Personal Accident, Workmen’s Compensation,
Motor Car, Plate-Glass Breakage, Burglary, Guarantee, Live Stoek,
Crops, Stacks, Hailstone, etc., Covered at Lowest Kates.
VICTORIAN BRANCH. 50 Queen Street, Melbourne.
QUEENSLAND BRANCH, 113 Eagle Street, Brisbane.
CLAIMS PROMPTLY AND EQUITABLY SETTLED.
AGENTS IN ALL PRINCIPAL COUNTRY TOWNS
SYDNEY 11. CARY, J.P., Chairman. G. HOWARD POPE, General Manager.
Queensland
Insurance Co.
Ltd.
Head Office:
Pitt & Bridge Streets,
Sydney.
The Largest
Australian Company
transacting
Fire, Marine, Personal
Accident and Sickness,
Burglary, Live Stock,
Public Risk, Boiler Ex-
plosion, Workers’ Com-
pensation, etc., etc.
£300,000,” says the report. Gross earnings
for the 12 months amounted to £43,231; for
1925 the total was £15,197. Expenditure
was on the heavy side, but included £2722
for brokerage. Net profit was £14,565, and
the divs. (10 p.c. on ords. and 8 p.c. on
prefs.) .took £9746; £2500 was put into
general reserve and the balance (£2319)
written off establishment, reducing it to
£7550. _
A more modest div. and a heavier cut at
the dead wood would have looked better. As
it is, present subscribed capital, with all calls
in, on a 10 p.c. basis (prefs. 8 p.c.), will
wipe up £29,137 —-twice as much as last
year’s net income. The task may not be
beyond the co., but until the accounts have
been cleared and something laid by against
contingencies the div.-policy should be more
conservative. The car-owning bug still bites
a large number of people—sufficient to keep
the t.-p. financiers occupied—and decreasing
prices are extending the life of the boom. But
danger signs are showing. Purchasers who
have gone beyond their means find upkeep
difficult or impossible once their ’bus has
passed its youth, so the second-hand market
is becoming* glutted, affecting the sale of new
cars to an increasing extent. And the lean
times so often spoken of surely must come;
Australia has had an amazingly good run,
with the partial drought in Queensland last
year the only serious blot. Alert, careful
management is essential in these proposi-
tions, particularly as competition is increas-
ing in the field of motor hire-purchase and
interest rates will almost certainly be
affected. Already one finance co. has cut its
charges. Apart from the £80,070 owed the
bank and depositors at December 31, £7738
was owing to sundry creditors. Assets con-
sisted of hire-Durchase agreements £228,237,
other debtors £1577, shares and debentures
£14,039, furniture £9OO and some loose
change. Recent sales of the 10s. paids were
at 11s. 6d.
* # * *
Wiluna Gold Mines (W.A.) has nearly
completed its pilot plant, and expects to
reach the “exhaustive tests” stage very
shortly. These tests will be made to ascer-
tain what type of gold-extraction process is
most suitable. Ample capital is available
in London for the co.’s requirements in
regard to plant and further development.
* * * #
Great Boulder shareholders in the
West; are astonished at the good returns
now being obtained by tributors. For
some time before tributes were let
the average grade of ore treated was
barely enough to make ends meet, but
immediately tributors got to work rich
stone was exposed. Since then thousands of
tons of high-grade stuff have been raised by
the tribute parties, and from all accounts
there is plenty more in sight. During Feb-
ruary the co. crushed 6342 tons for itself for
£10,533, while the tributors put through 1722
tons for £11,380. Something similar
happened in the adjoining Perseverance,
where tributors extracted hundreds of
thousands of pounds’ worth of gold after
the co. had announced that there was prac-
tically nothing payable left, and called in
the liquidator.
* * * *
Parkerville gold find (W.A.) has been
bowled out. The first lot of samples taken
by a Mines Department expert averaged only
14gr. per ton, but to make certain the bottom
of the well from which these samples were
obtained was cleaned out and another lot
taken. Gold contents, nil. Mining men
who inspected the “find” were not surprised.
* # * *
Something new in mining reports—
“E. and O. E.” was tagged to a statement
issued in London the other day by the direc-
tors of Star Emerald Syndicate (W.A.).
They claimed to have received 3000 carats,
including one stone of 40 carats, and 5 men-
tioned that a further parcel containing eight
stones of 20 carats each was on the way.
They added tlifct Hatton Garden experts are
very pleased with the stones, some of which
have been cut.
* # * *
If South Australian Oil Wells bubbled oil
as freely as it does optimism, the Cabbage
Garden would be a grease spot. A year ago
the co. trotted out expert 11. S. Lyne’s sur-
prise at the quantity of oil brought up by
the bailer; also the quartzite in which the
drill stuck at 1530 ft. was considered to be the
cap covering of an oil-pool. It is now
written that a good showing of crude petro-
leum developed; “but, owing to the intrusion
of new water from below the cemented
casing, a flowing well could not bo brought
in.” Full of faith that crude petroleum was
got, they have put the drill down to 1860 ft.,
“where a richer oil sand is confidently
expected to exist.” Charlton Dod, in his
chit-chat, has a bit to say about what he
calls the misinterpretation of analysis of
scum taken from the water during the swab-
bing test. It was on this subject that Dod
and geologist Baragwanath got to nasty talk.
Dod declares: “We have truly found crude
petroleum in our bore, and but for the un-
expected water we could have produced oil
in quantity.” So he plumps for starting
more bores with larger and heavier plants
and casing, because tile structure “is very
favorable, and we know now where to drill.”
C. Dod is on safe ground in saying that it
often takes a lot of bores to strike oil. So
far £50,000 has gone in the hunt from Robe
to Point Lonsdale and back to the Glenelg
River. The debit for the year is £7500, but
with £2OOO in hand the co. gets on with the
job.
* * * *
Willie Watt, now that he has the run of
Collins House, might brighten up the pub-
licity department of Taranaki Oilfields. A
formal little note tells that the Moturoa drill
is to be removed from near New Plymouth to
28 miles south of Gisborne, on the east coast
of M.L. That scrap isn’t very satisfying to
holders who paid good money for scrip on
the strength of geologist Clapp’s opinion.
The Gisborne area is a second selection and
facts about it are promised later on. What
would be real nice would be a notification
that Anglo-. Persian approves of the transfer.
Any other little item that Ted Shackell might
spare off the office file would help to keep
up the interest of the stranded investor dur-
ing his wait for something to gush up.
“Kiteh” gives a prospector’s view of it: —
I have just spent a couple of weeks in the
Bogong country, north of the divide, in Victoria,
along the Snowy Creek and Dean’s Creek spurs,
picking up a lease or two for tin. Local chaps are
pegging anything they reckon has a tin lode on it
and offering it for sale. It may be the making of a
good field; schist country with big granite dyke
intrusions. There are very few prospectors out
in the hills, but a number knocking about the
roads, picking up anything that doesn’t need hard
work to get. There are such a lot of leases applied
for that one has to be careful not to prospect
another man’s ground for him. The lodes are easy
enough to find, but to find a fair percentage of tin
is like picking a winner on Cup day. I thought I
had found a Mount Bischoff, but the black splashes
turned out to be tourmaline, which had forsaken
its streaky, needly nature and taken on a tin appear-
ance. The country is mountainous, and water can
be obtained in most ol the creeks. There is good
horse-feed on the spurs, but man-feed has to be
packed 20 miles or more on horses; and as the bags
of food are just thrown across the horses, your
bread is likely to arrive well soaked in sweat. Tin
was found over 30 years ago, when it wasn’t worth
finding, while prospectors were looking for gold.
Now some of the tin shows are being refound, and
lots of the finds will be lost again after flotation.
There is, however, every prospect of some having
a profitable life.
* * * *
“G.D.M.” suggests an alternative: —
Tas. Director of Mines Mclntosh Reid has been
in Melbourne discussing with H. W. Gepp, Director
of Markets and Migration, the question of making
a geophysical survey of the Speck by the “Elbof”
method of electrical prospecting. The cost of the
work will come out of the State’s share of the
£35,000,000 which Australia is borrowing from
Baldwin, Churchill and Co. for immigration pur-
poses. It would be far cheaper and more practical
to buy a test-distillation plant for treating 10 tons
of oil shale or cannel coal every 24 hours. Julius
Pintseh, of Pintsch gas fame, can supply such a
plant for a little over £lOOO f.0.b., Hamburg.
His distillation plants are being used on a large
scale in Esthonia upon oil shale inferior in oil con-
tent to the Tasmanian.
* * * *
High prices for tiu sent scouts down to
the old Ruby mine area, near St. Helens,
in the Speck. They have pegged out leases
near the George’s River, and a £30,000 co.
in 10s. shares is on the stocks. Each origi-
nal member in the 200-share syndicate will
have ISO shares for his fiver. J. B. Lewis,
of the Anchor, has run the rule over the
ground, and gives the little show a fatherly
pat. The ground is shallow, and the plan
is to sluice it with water pumped from the
near-by George’s River.
* * * *
Wilkinson’s Amalgamated, the hope of Yal-
wal (N.S.W.), has got the Golden Crown and
Usher leases to the productive stage, and at
last has persuaded its suction gas-engine to
behave. The battery is being run until the
dry rolls arrive, when they will be installed
for use in connection with the cyanidation
of the ore. Early in the piece Wilkinson’s
thought there w T ould be a div. for last Christ-
mas, but most holders will feel satisfied if
they get one before the next turkey season.
* * * *
The New Hope, a £lO,OOO float, proposes
to work the Banner, Lady Belmore and
Brown’s reefs at Bell’s Creek, near Braid-
wood (N.S.W.). Of the £1 shares 2000
fully-paids go to J. Heinrich as promoter
and 2500 to the Banner Syndicate for the
leases. A five-head battery is to be erected;
a good supply of water is available. A
shaft has been sunk 255 ft., and there are
two levels, one at 160 ft. and another at
240 ft., both driven along the reef 180 ft.
east. The average of 44 samples w r as 2oz.
sdwt. per ton. A. Vincent is permanent
director, and Reuben King, of Nowra, secre-
tary. The shares are payable in full on
allotment.
* * * *
The high price of the metal has galvan-
ised tin-scratching in North Queensland, and
the Herberton country is quite like old times,
with out-o’-works pegging claims all over the
landscape. The once rich Wild River is
again giving good returns, especially below
the Great Northern battery dam, which was
washed out in recent floods. The thick
couch grass on the river banks has acted as
a blanket, and from it a few lucky prospec-
tors have, it is said, been making £l2 a week
with little trouble.
* * * *
Mt. Morgan’s latest report indicates that
the co. will still have some time to wait be-
fore getting on with the open-cut scheme.
E. E. Barker, the American mining engineer
who was brought over to advise on open-
cut mining, has returned to the States, where
he will go into the question of plant and
costs, and confer with other engineers on the
result of his examination. A report from
the combined experts is now awaited. This
will show whether the scheme as outlined
at present is practicable, or whether modi-
fications are called for. The new reverb,
furnace has been started, and is treating
calcines and purchased ore. It is expected
that it will run for four months or so, treat-
ing reserves of material and the concentrates
produced in the experimental work.
* * * *
Tanami (N.T.) got its battery ready for
crushing, but the suction gas-engine jibbed.
‘‘lt is necessary to secure the services of an
expert,” says the official report. Tanami
is a long way out of_the beaten track —if
there is any such track—of experts in suc-
tion gas, and the delay aggravates the posi-
tion of holders, already dog-tired and
grumbling that the Excuses Fund is bottom-
less. Meantime, however, consolation is offered.
“The reef is being driven on,” the report
says meekly. There are so many reefs in
the prospectus that holders will wonder which
one has been selected for driving on pending
the arrival from somewhere of the suction-
gas expert.
* * * *
Guinea Gold has a litter of pups, North,
South and Central. Shares in the new float
will not be offered to the public until
sampling results are available. Indeed, it
might have been best to wait and see whether
the parent was worth breeding from at all.
* * * *
Missionaries at Yale Island (Papua) re-
cently obtained assays of some mineral dis-
closed by a big landslide which had hap-
pened several wet seasons ago. The returns
showed that the stuff was a mixed sulphide
of iron and silver-lead, containing from
6dwt. to lOoz. gold. Several persons who
have seen the country, but who don’t know
much about ore bodies, state that there are
millions of tons still in situ, besides a million
or so already toppled down as a talus into
a steep gorge. The spot is hidden GO miles
inland behind mountains 6000 ft. high.
* * * *
Driller Moore, of New Guinea Oil, is still
optimistic regarding the chances when the
additional casing, about £l5OO worth, has
been received from the U.S. The gas escap-
ing from the bore is so weighted with oil
globules that it appears to Moore that an oil
pool must lie somewhere near. “It is quite
easy to pass through an oilfield,” says the
driller; “that has often been done in Ameri-
ca when mud from the drilling has been
allowed to accumulate and so dam back the
oil. This danger makes it necessary to keep
the mud well away from the hole during bor-
ing operations.”
* * * *
“Papuan” on the island’s gold history:—
A writer in a Sydney paper, commenting on the
Bulolo find, declared that the Germans knew of the
gold there but would not allow it to be worked.
This is incorrect. The country was worked by the
Berlin Syndicate for years; some of the miners
from the Mambar, in Papua, went over and worked
for the syndicate. A ‘few years afterwards a small
party from the Papuan goldfields went prospecting
by way of German New Guinea, and the German
Governor gave them assistance in procuring “boys.”
Later, after the trip had proved a failure, he gave
the party permission to shoot birds-of-paradise to
recoup themselves for the loss. Mat Crowe was the
leader of the party. The Germans were keen
enough to realise that the best way to open up the
country was by encouraging the diggers; hence their
willingness to assist in finding a payable field.
* * * •
Kampar River (F.M.S.) has paid 14s. 6d.
a share as an advance against its liquida-
tion, and there should be another 6d. from
residual payments, enabling holders of the
120,000 20s. shares to salvage three-fourths
of their capital. At one time, when the
show appeared likely to join the great dud
class, and shares fell to 3s. 6d., the black
outlook forced some out. The check boring
that decided the London co. to go ahead with
the purchase seems to indicate that the 160
acres held may return good interest when
the dredge has been installed.
* * * *
Sydney Siam, one of the many Australian
flotations now transferring their affections
from the F.M.S. to Siam, has received a
boring report from its field engineers. The
co.’s options are in the Renong district,
whither more than one disappointed F.M.S.
show is turning. The report says that 500
acres of the area have been close-bored. Aver-
age depth, 371 ft.; average values, 14oz. As
the co. has 340 acres still to bore, anything
like that depth and average should turn out
well. Siamese titles take a while to negoti-
ate. Further, with the lesson of the F.M.S.
before their eyes, Siamese proprietors, or
the Chinese towka.vs who are the real ven-
dors in most cases, are not inclined to let
things go lightly. On top of that, the Siam-
ese Government is showing itself a harder
taxmaster than the F.M.S. —and the latter,
with its rising scale of royalties, is hard
enough. None of the eos. now flocking to
Itenong have made any particular mention
of these facts.
* * * #
The Marvel goldmine, at Dalmorton, on
the Grafton-Glen Innes road (N.S.W.) one
of the best fields on the Nortli Coast in
the ’nineties, has been re-opened, a rich
shoot —dimensions unspecified—having been
found. Dalmorton has been deserted for
years.
* * • *
Changkat Tin started out in life with
the courage of its convictions, at any rate—
it began with a capital of £120,000, fully-
paid-up. Shares have been bumping about a
100 per cent, premium for a long time-
recent sales were at 38s. 9d. The co. is
going to increase its capital by £lO,OOO, mak-
ing a total of 130,000 shares. The co. may
justify itself when the dredge-work gets
going. Incidentally, it is about time the
premium-paying public realised what a long,
long way it is between the flotation of a tin-
dredging proposition and the first published
yardage return.


And now for
Business Efficiency /
The six machines illustrated on this page will do much to install office efficiency, saving a great
deal of noise, time and labor. The service they render pays for them very quickly —the rest is
added profit. Let a Chartres representative substantiate these claims by a demonstration.
The Remington Noiseless is the last word in type-
writers. It eliminates the nerve-wracking clatter of
other machines, and makes for much greater office
efficiency. Where office work is done quietly it is done
better. The Remington Noiseless does everything that
any other machine can do—except make a noise.
The Monroe-Adder-Calculator is the mechanical
marvel that will do your figure work rapidly and
accurately. Adds, multiplies, subtracts or divides
automatically. The Monroe is simplicity itself, and
can be operated by an untrained junior. Week’s free
trial given. Easy terms arranged.
The invention of the Kardex Visible Recording
System ushered in a new era in the methods of record-
keeping, an era of facts and figures under control, of
instant reference, of INSIGHT instead of OVER-
SIGHT. It is infinitely faster, simpler, more accurate,
adaptable and efficient than any other system. A
demonstration will convince you. Terms arranged.
The Spool-o-Wire Fastener, or stapling
machine, is a handy little device of great service
in an office. It saves filing costs, filing time and
filing space. It cuts its own staples—15,000
—from one spool of wire. Free trial arranged.
The Sundstrand Adding and Listing Machine is
the fastest, simplest and most reliable of all adding
machines. Its features are: Only ten keys, capacity
£100,000, sub-total and total keys, automatic repeat
keys, non-add listing feature, etc. Guaranteed for 1 0
years’ hard work. Ask for week’s free trial. Easy
terms arranged.
ŕ
The “Remington Rapid Rotary” Duplica-
tor is the simplest to operate. Perfect repro-
ductions from one original can be run off in
a few minutes in typewriting, handwriting,
drawings, sketches, etc. The machine auto-
matically inks, paper feeds and counts. Ask
for demonstration. Terms arranged.
For Demonstration of any of the above machines ring*
Chartres Ltd.
Chartres, Ltd., Sydney. Chartres Pty., Ltd., Melbourne. Chartres Ltd., Adelaide.
(Formerly Stott & Hoare & Chartres, Ltd. ) Dobell &. Co., Brisbane*
Please
send us
y full
/ particulars
of
Name
/
/ A ddress
B. 31/3/'27.


REMARKABLE RETURNS.
Properly run financial institutions are among the best paying' businesses on the market.
In the front rank of these, as regards dividends, stand the Cash Order houses.
For instance, R. H. Gordon & Co., Ltd., has been paying dividends of from 10 p.c. to 14 p.c.
per annum with machine-like regularity for years, and have this month declared, just by way of a
change, .a 15 p.c. dividend in addition to the 50,000 free bonus shares which it distributed during
the year.
The Australian Cash Order Company paid a 15 p.c. dividend in 1924, besides presenting
its fortunate shareholders with bonus shares to the extent of another 15 p.c. In 1925, it paid
dividends and bonuses amounting to 37A p.c. Last year, the dividend declared was no less
than 224 p.c.
Now, the latest recruit in this field, viz., Cash Orders (Amalgamated) Limited, although it
has been operating only six months, lias made such remarkable progress that the Directors are
contemplating declaring an interim dividend at the rate of 10 p.c. per annum.
Should this be done, there will be a great rush for shares, as many of the public have
been waiting to see the Company in actual operation. Furthermore, the fact that the Directors
have signed a contract with the A.C.8., Ltd., of Queensland —which has 29 centres and a turnover
running into millions—by which Cash Orders (Amalgamated) Limited has the exclusive right to
issue orders on that firm, is bound to add to the confidence of investors.
Consequently, the time to come in is NOW, before the dividend is declared and shares
go up in price. As applications for shares will be treated in the exact order in which they are
received, the early bird will catch the early worm. Prudent investors will, therefore, lose no
time in either writing or personally applying for the necessary application forms to
Cash Orders (Amalgamated); Ltd., J. T. Walton, Broker,
OR
3 Spring Street, Sydney. 4 Bridge Street, Sydney.
DIAMOND RINGS OF QUALITY
FLAWLESS GEMS IN INSPIRED SETTINGS.
Two Choice Dia-
monds in hexagonal
settings with small
diamonds at the
sides. £22/107-
Three Pine Din -
monds in hexagonal
settings with small
diamonds at the
Bides, £3O.
Pour Choice Dia-
monds set in plati-
num and 18et.
gold, £l5/15/-
Fine Diamond with
small diamonds at
the sides, set in
platinum and 18ct.
gold, £65.
Two Choice Dia-
monds set in plati-
num and 18ct
gold, with small
diamonds at the
sides, £27/10/-
Three Fine Dia-
monds set in plati-
num and ISct.
gold. Claw set
ling, £4O.
FAIRFAX & ROBERTS, LTD.,
The Oldest Jewellery House in Sydney, 23 and 25 HUNTER STREET.
PLAIN FIGURES CASH ONLY. -
PERSONAL
ITEMS
CLOBE
MEAT EXTRACT
GLOB BRAND
Some April birthdays:
Vic. Minister Alfred Downward, 80, and Arch-
deacon Adams (Bunbury), 57 on Ist; Bishop Arm-
strong (Wangaratta), 70, Alex. Jobson, 52, and
Walter J. Young (Elder, Smith and Co., Adel.), 55,
on 2nd; Col. Bourchier (Vic. Minister), 46, on 4th;
Archdeacon Boyce (Sydney), 83, on 6th; Alf
Roberts (pres, of S.A. Lawn Tennis Ass.), 64, on
7th; Arthur Streeton, 60, on Bth; ex-Prime Minister
.T. C. Watson, 60, and T. Trumble (Secretary for
Defence), 55, on 9th; Elliot Johnson, M.H.R., 65,
and Prof. Priestley (Q’land), 44, on 10th; Bernard
O’Dowd, 61, on 11th; Dr. Maloney, M.H.R., 73,
on 12th; Justice Douglas (Q’land), 44, on 13th;
W. C. Hill (Fed. Minister of Works), 61, on 14th;
Prime Minister Bruce, 44, Alfred W. Meeks (chair-
man A.M.P.), 78, Geo. Brookman (Adel.), 77, and
Adelaide’s ex-Mayor Allen Simpson, 52, on 15th;
Lieut.-Gen. Harry Chauvel, 62, on 16th ; Rev. John
Walker (Canberra’s first Presbyterian minister), 72,
Melb. merchant William Mcßeath, 62, and Harry D.
Gell (Adel.), 82, on 17th; David Barclay (Hobart), 81,
on 18th ; Dr. MaoFarland (Chancellor Melb. Uni.), 76,
and Thomas Hughes (Sydney’s first Gaud Mayor), 64,
on 19th; L. A. Adamson (Wesley Coll., Melb.), 67, on
20th; W. L. Baillieu (Melb.), 68, Clifford Hay
(N.S.W. Premier’s Dept.), 49, Dr. C. B. Blackburn,
(Syd.), 58, and Dr. B. H. Morris (S.A. Inspector-Gen.
of Hospitals), 59, on 22nd; Arthur Robinson (for-
merly Vic. Attorney-Gen.), 55, on 23rd ; N.S.W. Chief
Sec. Lazzarini, 45, on 24th; Knight-medico. Carr
Maudsley (Melb.). 68, G. H. Prosser, M.L.C. (S.A.),
60, and' Jas. Davies (Commercial Travellers’ Ass’n
sec.), 62, on 25th: Queensland ex-Senator Drake,
77, W. J. Sow'den (sometime of Adel. Register),
GENERAL BRUDENELL WHITE. who is
responsible for the Duke and Duchess
while they're in Australia.
69, and J. MacCallum Smith, M.L.A. (W.A.), 59,
R. W. M. Waddy (formerly S.A. Deputy P.M.G.), 19.
and Dr. R. Greig Smith (Syd.), 61, on 26th; Gov.-
Gen. Stonehaven, 53, Henry Braddon (Dalgety’s),
64, Prof. Agar (Melb.), 45, ex-W.A. Premier Jas.
Mitchell, 61, and Vic. Railways Commissioner
Shannon, 59, on 27th; J. Arthur Dowling (grandson
of Chief Justice Dowling), 77, and Owen Dixon, K.C.
(Melb.), 41, on 28th; W. L. S. Cooper (Clerk of
N.S.AV. Parliaments), 62, on 30th.
Granville Eyrie, named as the next High
Commissioner, may not speak the language
of diplomacy, but he has an even rarer
linguistic gift. He can talk at least two
dialects of the Monaro abos.
When Bruce decided to give Eyrie the
High Commissionership. he wrote to the
old Brig, care of the Melbourne Club. So
the exclusive Collins-street caravanserai has
once more been associated with a big appoint-
ment. The last notable one was the eleva-
tion of William Irvine, then M.H.R. (like
Ryrie), to the State C.J.-ship; on that
occasion, Premier Lawson, then newly-
fledged, sent by hand a letter to the Iceberg,
making an appointment. Irvine's retirement
from politics left Flinders open for Bruce,
who got it and the top political job as well.
Nearly every Vic. Cabinet has had one or
two Ministers who belonged to either the
Melbourne or the almost equally exclusive
Australian Club; sometimes a member or
two of each.
Things have changed since Roy McDonald
went to Tamwortli (N.S.W.) as a clerk in
the petty sessions office. First he decided
that there was more money in land-agency
than in clerking; next, having been inocu-
lated at Broken Hill, he took up Labor poli-
tics and became State member for the dis-
trict ; then his agency business and his
M.P.’s pass helped him into various specs,
which turned out well. The Kandos cement
business was his biggest venture in company
promotion, and he lias made such a reputa-
tion for shrewdness that the other day he
was entrusted by a syndicate—-largely him-
self —with negotiations for the purchase of
the W.A. Portland cement works. He
brought off a deal; price, £llO,OOO. Nowa-
days he isn’t seen much around Parliament
House, though a seat was found for him in
the Leg. Council.
P. J. Dillon, who has retired from the
secretaryship in Queensland's London office,
made many friends among London's writing
men, for literature is his passion. He has
a volume of verse to his credit, and a book
of reminiscences is to see the light. Dillon
is a noted Gaelic scholar, and sports the
badge which signifies that lie is fluent in the
ancestral tongue.
Former Labor Premiers John Verran and
Crawford Vaughan spoke for the license-
reduction people in the S. Aus. local-option
campaign which ended last week. John cuts
so little ice in politics nowadays that he
recently failed to get a nomination for a
suburban councillorship, but he won’t worry.
On his daily tram journeys to and from
Adelaide the veteran has a great time. All
the passengers know him, and someone in-
variably entices him into an argument on a
current topic. Having laid down the law,
John looks round for applause, and any sym-
pathetic glance in his direction is acknow-
ledged with an affable wink.
For the second time the Vic. A.N.A. has
a J. Hop as its head; Senior-Constable
Jimmy Green was elected chief president at
the Hamilton conference last week in suc-
cession to Digger Bill Slater, M.L.A. When
the board-of-directors system was established
in 3877. after a loose sort of confederation
of branches for six years, Detective Tommy
O'Callaghan was made first president. Tommy
afterwards rose to be Chief Commissioner of
Police, and retired from the force about 18
years ago. Green is not quite of the O’Cal-
laghan calibre, but he is a bundle of energy.
At. 16 he read and wrote indifferently, but
he went to night-school and astonished his
teachers by his rapid progress. He was
king of Mirloo North for a few years, and
had a higher elementary school established
there. Still a student, he has passed the
exams, necessary to carry him up to super-
intendent.
A. D. Davidson, the “Quantas” pilot who
was killed with his two passengers when his
’plane crashed at Tambo (Q.) last week, was
the youngest son of .1. E. Davidson, managing
director of Adelaide News and sometime
editor of Melbourne Herald. The young
fellow joined the Queensland company
only a few weeks ago. coming from the Point
Cook (Vic.) school, where he took his
pilot’s ticket in 1923. He had a first-class
flying record at Point Cook and with his new
employers in his short period of service
before the tragedy. He was only 28.
Will Donaldson, one of the victims of the
first fatal crash on the Western Queensland
air route, was a fine type of Australian. Born
at Mackay fN.Q.Pin 1886. the second son of
Robert Donaldson and a nephew of Robert
Philp, he w r as educated first at the King's
School, Parramatta, and afterwards at Gatton
College (Q.). He worked for some time at
his father’s sugar plantations in Fiji, and
married Helen Hewitt, of Banlkliam Hills.
His first big appointment was as manager of
Carlton Hills, on the Gregory; later he
transferred to Riversleigli, another cattle-run
in the same territory. He remained in charge
there till two years ago, when he accepted
the management of Redlands (N.Q.), near
Camooweal. It was while returning from
Melbourne on the firm’s business that he
met his end. A widow and seven children
are left. Incidentally, the two eldest girls,
Nancy and Ethel. 16 and 14, recently saiiii-
tered down by themselves from Camooweal
to Normanhurst School, at Sydney, although
tlie journey meant a flight of 850 miles by
air-route to Toowoomba and thence by train.
•Timmy McDonald, the bachelor honorary
Minister of the Vic. Allancocks, got a walk-
over for the remodelled Polwarth constitu-
ency because George Henry Stonehouse, a
Geelong engine-driver, forgot to sign his
nomination-paper. Stenhouse turned up in
Colac at the eleventh hour to complete his
nomination-paper, and in the excitement of
racing the clock overlooked the essential
thing. In any case, Stenhouse would have
had no show. He was quite philosophic over
missing the ’bus, and explained that his
GENERAL GRANVILLE RYRIE, just
appointed Australia's High Commis-
sioner in London.
main purpose in having a shot at polities
was to secure a. hearing for a scheme, lie
had worked out for supplying pure milk
at a moderate price. He was once a milk-
oli in Colac, and had done some ruminating
as his gee whirled his cart from customer
to customer.
As was anticipated after the passing of
the Fifth Judge Bill, acting-Judge Richards
has received a permanent appointment on
the S. Aus. Supreme Court Bench. As the
health of Poole, J., is still bad, AY. L.
Stuart becomes acting-judge. A son of a
former Crown Solicitor, Stuart joined the
Supreme Court staff as a Judge’s associate,
and in 1916 was made Master of the
Supreme Court. A military enthusiast, lie
was rejected for active service, but held
various home-service posts during the war;
thousands of Diggers remember him at
Mitcham Camp. He is now a major in the
C.M.F.
Professor Anstruther Lawson had not
finished receiving congratulations upon being
made a Fellow of the Royal Society of Lon-
don when he was taken suddenly ill. Then
his friends learned with sorrow that lie had
died. Lawson came to Australia in ,1913
to open the Botany school at Sydney Fni.,
and made it one of the best known in the
world. Ilis own discoveries regarding the
seeds of Australian plants won him universal
recognition. The devoted scientist was 55,
but would have passed for 10.
Big-hearted Jim Mathews. M.TT.R. for
Melbourne Ports, is so infirm nowadays that
he has to be led in and out of the Chamber,
and, at times, propped up in his seat. Dur-
ing the division on Charlton's amendment
to the Supply Bill, he was unable to cross
over to vote with his party, but the AA'liips
arranged that his vote should be recorded in
favor of the amendment. So Jim sat with
the Noes and voted with the Ayes—a thing
without Parliamentary precedent, anti-
quarians assert.
It is easy to forget the dead, but the
Queensland South African Veterans’ Asso-
ciation is not built that way. The other
day it laid a wreath on the grave of Captain
“Ironbark Jim” Berry, who. sleeps in Sher-
wood Cemetery, near Brisbane. As an officer
of the 4th Q. I. Bushmen, Berry helped in
the pursuit of De Wet when Phimer’s
column chased the broken invader- out of
Cape Colony. It was the height of the rainy
season, and guns and other units dropped
behind, dead beat, but “Ironbark” and his
band held on, picking up Boer stragglers
and abandoned machine-guns until they
reached the flooded Orange River and saw
the remnants of De Wet’s rearguard scram-
bling out of the water on the opposite bank.
The epic got little publicity, nor did “Iron-
bark” achieve any official kudos.
An impressive relie of the early days of
Vic. is Councillor T. W. Delves, of Fitzroy
Tim sailer Tiptree brought him from the
Cold Land m 185 <, and amongst his fellow
passengers were Frank and John Madden
who became Speaker of the Leg. Assembly
and C. .T. respectively, and received handles
to their names. Delves has lived in Fitz-
roy for 70 years, and his 77th birthday gave
the local bumbles an excuse for pouring con-
gratulations on him.
Pentridge is losing the capable Governor
Barclay, whose eyesight is failing. As
Burke, of the adjoining metropolitan
Coburg gaol, has only about six months to
run till he reaches 65, the retiring age. Mick
Stapleton, the deputy at Pentridge, has a
good chance of succeeding Barclay.
Charles Eley, the Silverton Tramway Co.’s
first general manager, survived his retire-
ment only a few months; he was 36 when
he took the job, and he kept it for 38 years.
Probably no railway man ever handed his
shareholders bigger dividends: they put up
£50,000 share capital, and in his time they
drew £2,700,000, most of it earned by carry-
ing Broken Hill ore and supplies. On those
figures he ought to have been the most un-
popular man on the field. Actually, he was
the big, genial friend of all the world. If
they had picked him from a million men
they couldn't have got one to serve them
better.
Alfred Downward, Vic. Minister for
Lands, will be 80 to-morrow, tlntroubled
by the weight of years, he is conducting a
vigorous campaign in Mornington, hitherto
devoted to the old man. Downward was
first elected in 3894, when he beat £ £ Smith,
and, including a by-election when he joined
the Bent Ministry in 1908, the affair on
April 9 will be his 15tli poll. It is no novelty
for Vic. Assembly to have a member of four-
score. Within the past 17 years E. H. Cam-
eron and Tommy Langdon, now under the
sod, had eightieth birthdays while in the
I louse.
Jim Deany, who succeeded ex-Premier
Murray as member for Warrnambool in Vic.
Assembly 11 years ago, has voted in his last
division. Stricken with paralysis at the
end of last year, lie rallied after a few
weeks,’ but another attack on the eve of
nomination-day was fatal. Good fellow
though he was, Deany hadn’t a tithe of
Murray’s ability, and the only political pick-
ing he secured was a place on the railway
committee, which yielded an extra £240 a
year. It looks as if Laborite Bailey, who
was member for Port Fairy till the dissolu-
tion on March 5, will collar the Warrnam-
bool seat now, as Mayor Swan, the last-
minute Nash, nominee, is a raw hand at
the game.
Closed his minute-book, Charlie liocher,
for 49 years Town Clerk of Launceston
(Tas.). Charlie was born at Bocherlea (a
suburb of Launceston named after his
father), educated at the Launceston Gram-
mar School, and called to the Bar at th-
Middle Temple, London, in 1868. He lived
to be the oldest Cent. One on the Tas. list.
For a time he was Solicitor-General, and
G. E. STATHAM the newly[?]
Speaker of the M.L. House of Heps.
thou he hung out a brass-plate of Ins own
also, he was elected for the North M u ’ lC ?
ton seat in the Assembly. This job '
resigned to become Town Clerk, in wn
capacity he was guide, counsellor and m
to two generations of aldermen.
wrote a couple of books, a short account 1
the growth of Launceston and a legal t0
1901-1927.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Prince, we have looked on memorable things
In six-and-twenty summers of renown
Since the old barriers ’twixt State and State
(Meridian, river, parallel and strait
And sundering range) went down,
And one and indivisible were we
From shore to shore at last, from sea to sea.
Ambassador of empire, honored guest
Who comes, as came your royal sire, to
write
.V name upon a landmark by the way,
With red to letter yet another day
And mark it with a stone of fadeless white,
Your father saw a nationhood begun,
A nation grown to manhood greets his son.
N.S.W.
IFORD.


SHIPS
M A JUNE
ENGINES
LOCOMOTIVES
MACHINE
TOOLS
FORCINGS
CASTINCS
NON
FERROUS
PRODUCTS
*355
DROP
STAMPINCS
HIGH SPEED
STEELS
SMALL TOOLS
CAUCES
M
PNEUMATIC
TOOLS
ELECTRIC
LIGHTING
SETS
COAL
HANDLING
PLANT
HYDRAULIC
MACHINERY
PUMPING
MACHINERY
GENERAL
ENGINEERING
DOCK-
EQUIPMENT
M;C.;6r
in
USTRALI AN trains are hauled by Armstrong
locomotives —the largest and most powerful
the Commonwealth. South Africa’s
leading ports are equipped with Armstrong
cranes and machinery. Passengers to the
Dominions travel in liners built or engined in the
Armstrong shipyards. The map of New Zealand
is studded with townships that depend on
Armstrong installations for their light and power.
There is no department of engineering in which
the name Armstrong Whitworth is not known
and respected throughout the world. It is a name
which assures quality of material, skill in work-
manship and soundness of design.
Armstrong Whitworth is an Imperial House,
whose aim to-day is more than ever to be of
service to the Empire to which it belongs.
Buy Armstrong Whitworth Products
ENGINEERS TO
THE EMPIRE
You are invited to send
for Catalogues of any
A. W. Products in which
vou may he interested.
Sir •W- G - Armstrong Whitworth & C O -L TO
NEWCASTLE ' ON ' TYNE ' AND ' MANCHESTER • ENGLAND
London 0»ce: KINNAIRD HOUSE ' PALL MALL EAST ' LONDON ’ S ' \\" 1
Code ■ BENTLEY’S Telegrams : ZIGZAG, PICCY, LONDON
Agents for Australia : Messrs. GILBERT LODGE CO. Ltd., MELBOURNE and SYDNEY


Cbe Equitable Cife
ř
Bin
Coy.
of
Australasia Ctd.
Head Office:
Parbury House, Eagle Street, Brisbane.,
Branches:
N.S.W.: VICTORIA:
84 Pitt St., Sydney. 360 Collins St., Melb.
Transacts Probate, Life Endowment, Com-
bined Benefits (All Sickness) Assurance.
(Vacancies for Producers with good records.)
FREDK. LEVY, Mg. Director.
EXTRA HIGH GRADE
SMOKING
TOBACCO
Australian Agents: R. TOWNS & CO., SYDNEY.
Every Horseman Knows
comes to saddles
knows what a horse-
man requires for every
purpose. My cus-
tomers keep me so
busy making saddles
for them nowadays 1
have no time left for
riding like I used to.
r
There is no better saddle than the Genuine Wieneke
made personally by me, bearing my signature as a
guarantee.
Write for my latest saddle book.
JACK WIENEKE,
C/O JOHN BRUSH,
871 GEORGE STREET,. SYDNEY:
ABORIGINALITIES
MADE IN AUSTRALIA
“A.E.Y.”: Bill squatted on his hams in
the saddle-room while his collection of wall-
eyed, spotted, hungry-looking cattle- and
sheep-dogs imitated him outside the door,
and the station storekeeper selected from the
array of leather goods overhead a saddle
and a pair of greenliide hobbles. “Yairs,”
said Bill, “I seen in The Bulleteen where
they’re skitin’ about tlieir intelligent bul-
licks. If they’d a-seen the old roan leader
I sold to Stiff-fingered Jimmy up the Ange-
lala Creek they’d a-had sumpthin’ ter mag
about. Stiff-fingered Jimmy sold ’im back
ter a butcher, an’ the butcher sold ’im ter
a feller that was bringin’ a mob back down
through my place. That was before the
drought starved me out. The old roan bul-
lick must a-remembered the country an’ the
floggin’s I give ’im, fer, gettin’ near the old
place, this feller in charge of the mob useter
miss Roany from the camp every night, an’
lie had ter track ’im back in the mornin’.
One mornin’ the old roan bullick is missin’
again, an’ there ain’t no tracks ter foller
him. A cracked hoof useter make his track
easy, but there was no cracked-lioof track
this mornin’. Any’ow, they found Roany
without the tracks, and then tried ter track
’im back, but there wasn’t a track. It was
so mysterious that they watched ’im that
night, an’ stone the crows if old Roany
don’t break off a limb of mulga with 'is
horn an’ drag it backwards alawng the
ground, ter wipe out ’is tracks!”
* * * *
“The Jumper” : The plumage of the male
of most breeds of bird, if not entirely distinc-
tive, usually takes on a brighter hue at mat-
ing time; but the difference is often so slight
that only the most practised eye would notice
it, and then only from a short distance. In
the case of the black-throated butcher-bird,
the female is often the brighter-colored of the
two, particularly if the husband happens to
be a young bird. Daddy Butcher, however,
can easily be distinguished by his song, which
is distinct from that of his partner. On the
other hand, the singing magpies carol to tin;
one tune, although either sex may have a
distinctive call-note or two.
* * * *
“Paul,C.”: “A.Y.Y.” (B. 3/3/’27) wants
to know how to feed the young birds he
expects to come out of the eggs of a Major
Mitchell cockatoo mated with a white sul-
phur-crested companion. Well, if young ones
do come out of those eggs, all “A.V.V.” need
do is to give the adult birds enough feed and
look on. The hen will attend to the young-
sters’ upbringing. In the circumstances, the
husband couldn’t be blamed for disowning
them. But, in my opinion, all “A.V.V.” will
get out of those eggs will be a bad smell.
* * * *
“Black Tracker”: I christened her Juliet.
She was a small grey garden spider, and sat
in the centre of a cleverly-constructed dia-
gonal web. I knew by her restless state
that there was something doing. She appeared
to be expecting a visitor. She was not dis-
appointed, for Romeo, somewhat smaller than
herself, arrived on
the scene. He an-
nounced himself by
gently tapping one
of the thread stays
that reached the
centre. The effect
was magical. The
lady was suddenly
all excitement and
started to dance in
her web in a way
that threatened
damage. After
much manoeuvring
the lady shyly and
coyly advanced.
As she did so her
lover retreated, so
by the time she got
to th e trysting
place he was out
of reach. But once
she fixed the glad
eye on him he was
spellbound and re-
luctantly drew
closer until within
a couple of inches.
Then followed a
lightning dash and
a kiss, followed by
a lightning retreat
and all was over.
The lady slowly
returned to her spot and the lover raced
madly away, lucky to have dodged being the
victim at a lovers’ feast.
“Colub”: The essential factor in the
recent death of a child at Hornsby (N.S.W.)
from the bite of a spider has been over-
looked. It is that the toxic action of the
venom may have proved fatal only because
the victim was a child. Had the case been
that of an adult in good health, the poison
would probably have produced only com-,
paratively trifling results. The spider which
inflicted the bite was identified as Eueti-
mena tibialis, known generally as the “black
trapdoor” variety, and research has shown
that its venom contains no specially-active
principle. The chief effect of the poison is
on the blood, in a disintegration of the cor-
puscular bodies; there is also a secondary
action on the central nervous system. This,
however, is in the case of small mammals
only; in that of the insects which form the
spider’s natural food, the paralysing action
on the nervous system is the principal, and
that on the blood the secondary, one. In
the Hornsby case, probably when the spider
bit the child on the hand, its venom-injecting
apparatus penetrated a small blood-vessel,
so that the full quantity of poison was
received directly into the blood-stream, and
was thus able to exercise an effect far in
ANOTHER OF MR. BRUCE’S CRIMES,
“Hofful ’ot to-day, Maggie, ain’t it?”.
“Yes, hut my old man he’s bin tellin’ me as it’s humility that’s been put in the atmo-
sphere since the Commonwealth Go r’mint took over the weather.”
excess of what it would have done if absorbed
through the tissues in the ordinary manner.
Also the child’s power of resistance was
below that of an adult. The case is only
the fourth on record in Australia in which
death has been caused by a spider-bite, and
in the others the victim was either a child
or an elderly adult in poor health.
* * * *
“Ento”: It is hard to swallow the sug-
gestion of “Adam’s Apple” (B. 27/l/’27)
that his king beetles deserted their gummy
retreat for a peppery one because of the
screechy cicada chorus. All beetles are sup-
posed to be oblivious to external noises, and
these scarabs prefer pepper-trees to euca-
lypts, as a rule, whilst the invasion of one
tree from another by a crowd takes place
suddenly without the cicadas determining
the exodus. I have seen a sudden strong
gust of wind set them going, and I have also
seen them swarm suddenly in the stillest
time of a scorching day without apparent
reason. Their numbers on one occasion were
so large that two birds enjoying a quiet
siesta were driven away. Can “Adam’s
Apple” offer an explanation for the pheno-
menon of quite a number of cicadas on
different trees starting their chorus simul-
taneously after a long period of silence? I
have repeatedly heard this, but have no
explanation why it should be so.
* * * *
“Geoloin” : As “Dimbar’s” Joe Meldon (B.
10/2/’27) was talking about the bullocks and
drivers of 70 years ago, -he must expect more
humane treatment.' in the present day. I
asked a modern bullock-driver about it, and
he replied, “By what I read -Meldon must
have been one of those cruel men who beat
the poor bullocks with a whip, and I think he
also used bad language to them —a most
repreliensive practice, rightly condemned
by all present-day drivers. That the
bullocks respond is shown by the fol-
lowing incident. One of our drivers
got stuck with his load in a creek cross-
ing, and in making the load lighter for
the poor animals one of the logs rolled and
killed him. We took his body up to the
house and then released the bullocks. They
all marched up to the house and, lining up,
mooed in subdued, tones. Tlieir grief was so
obvious that there was not a dry eye amongst
the mourners present. Next day all'the bul-
locks followed the cortege to the cemetery
and joined in the hymns.”
“ J.D.C.”: Can any of the timber experts
account for the “explosive" pine found in
most-parts of inland Australia. On still, hot
mornings, when the pine is in flower, a puff
of thin, bluish vapor is sometimes ejected a
short distance into the air and disappears in
a few seconds. It is not dust or pollen shaken
out by the movement of a bird or breeze,
but seems to be a kind of gas given off by
exploding flowers. Every branch on the tree
discharges at the same second, and it is so
sudden that, when watching from a short
distance, one expects a report to follow the
explosion. The discharge is, however, with-
out sound, and is noticeable only when there
is no movement in the atmosphere. There is
sufficient explosive force to drive the gas-
cloud eight or ten feet in the air before it
begins to disintegrate, and it is always driven
straight up without the slightest lateral
spread until the force is spent. Many casual
observers conclude that’ it is dust deposited
on the leaves by storms, but it sometimes
occurs immediately after rain, and only when
the pines are in flower. The fact that the
pine is the only tree that gives off the cloud
points to the fact that it cannot be dust.
What is the explanation?
* * * *
“Tasiriki” : While engaged in fishing trochus
shell in the New Hebrides I took up turtle-
hunting as a side-line. There was a local
market, but the price was not good. Our
method of capture was to run them down
with a fast-pulling boat inside the reef. A
turtle will go at a fair bat for a hundred
yards, but then usually tires, and has a
A BIT OF IT WOULD BE SO HANDY .
ALFRED (skiting about his dog) : “The bloke
wot bred ’im told: me ’e’d fetch fifty
quid any day.”
ALICE : “Goodness! I wish he’d fetch some
of it no!"
spell on tin l bottom. One of the crew would
jump in as soon as he propped and turn
him over on his back, in which position he
is easily handled. This part ef the business
demands skill, as Mr. Greenback carries a
claw which can inflict a nasty gash. It
was great sport, if poor business.
(Continued on page 27.)
THE PASSING OF PETER GREEN.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
A year ago my old mate died,
My old mate Peter Green,
And in the home and on the farm
Great changes there have been.
Demolished is the old thatched barn
And, painted raucous red,
With iron roof and fibre walls,
They’ve built a long, low shed.
A motor-car is tucked inside,
A polished pampered thing,
Cloth covered, lest the dust might soil
Its soft upholstering;
But Peter’s buggy-wheels are warped—
The sun has cracked the wood ;
Beneath the seat is growing wheat,
And fowls roost on the hood.
The seed-box of the drill has gone,
Its discs are rusty now;
The binder’s beaters bend and break,
All rusty is the plough.
The boys are restless, and the girls
Are yearning for the town;
All seem content to leave the load
Where Peter laid it down.
They’ve sold the team of Clydesdale mares—
They’re scattered far and wide —
And with them went the saddle hack
Old Peter used to ride.
The yearling calves run with the cows
Without a mark or brand,
While dock and thistles overrun
The hard, unfallowed land.
Sedate and prim was Peter’s wife
In days before he died,
High-necked her blouse, her hair was knobbed,
Her skirts were long and wfide;
And spotlessly she kept the home,
With ne’er a smudge or stain ;
Eew callers came, few calls she made,
The home was her domain.
“AMONG THOSE PRESENT.”
“Wot’s she puttin’ on side about?”
“She’s goin’ to Canberra.”
“Wot —ter the opening?”
“Yes; ’er ’usban’ got ’er a job in a laundry.”
But when I met her yesterday
I thought she was a girl;
Her greying hair was bobbed and waved,
She watched her “fag”-smoke curl;
Sieek silken hose her legs encased
(She has a shapely pair);
A pleated skirt scarce hid her knees,
ner chest and arms were bare.
A year ago my old friend died ;
His grave lies deep in grass—
Ao rail or stone to check the feet
Of those who careless pass.
But one chum daily finds the spot,
His grief a living cross—
To Peter’s dog it’s holy ground
That covers his dead boss!
N.S.W.
JIM GRAHAME.


-c^
u
m
ssssss
w
(
M
<$S5
U^
i^-
. «-•==
777
■ 7 «si
ftp
77
/
&z m .
s$
7$
liiVTili? !
X
7X
IrircMl J ' _cd
mmm
m
§S
'r-
-774
- m
>*
$55~
1
«H«I,P<7
7
• .n'
H : ■ ■
7
|I»K
1
fk
'm
X pi' l,ir VgT
( v\
-zr/yr"
vr
VU!
7:3
ss
-Or-
7
fW
v-
IP
-it
helping the
Duke and Duchess see Australia
All sections of the community in city and country will be
proud and pleased to welcome the Duke and Duchess to
Australia. In no small measure the automobile will enable our
Royal visitors to see many parts of the Continent which would
otherwise have been impossible owing to lack of time. A fleet
of CROSSLEY “ SIXES” was shipped from England for the
use of the Duke and his Staff—but AUSTRALIA SUPPLIED the
DUNLOP TYRES
which will enable the itinerary to be successfully carried through.
★ * *
All States DUNLOP RUBBER CO. of Aust. Ltd.
and N.Z.
More Miles
when
DUNLOP
TYRES
are used!'


y*
•O
HA
nr*#*’**
’»*■>»
; JM*rX**“
Power/
Power is an absolute necessity to-day. To construct and maintain roads, to
perform agricultural work, to haul loads, consistent and dependable
mechanical power is required—at a low cost. Mechanical Power is the
fastest means to progress and prosperity.
Visit our Stand No. 129 at the Show. Here you will find specialised
machines, and you will find also that these machines perform their work
faithfully and economically and possess long lives of continued usefulness.
Sentinel.
Super-Sentinel Steam Waggons are ideal for
the hauling of heavy loads. Fuel costs
to id. per ton mile depending on conditions.
They have the fewest and slowest moving
parts of any heavy-duty road vehicle—hence
their low operating costs and great relia-
bility.
M
Adams Road Roller.
The Adams Road Roller is an efficient and
economical lightweight Roller for main-
tenance and preparation of sub-grades, etc.
Self-Feeding
Model
Barber-Greene 42
Loader.
This Loader in certain class of
work has done greater output
than 40 men shovelling. By the
saving it effects, it pays for itself
many times over. Loads sand,
gravel, broken stone, coal, clay,
etc.
Barber-Greene U Type
Conveyor.
These portable Conveyors are for loading loose
materials such as sand, stone, gravel, etc.,
into lorries and drays. Such great savings
can be. effected that the original cost is soon
paid for.
m
Adams Patent Leaning-
Wheel Grader.
Engineers and Contractors are cutting grad-
ing costs enormously with Adams Patent
Leaning-Wheel Graders. These Graders do
the grading more economically than any
other machine or method.
WILLIAM ADAMS ( COMPANY
- LI M ITEP ■■■■■■
SYDNEY. . ~. 175 Clarence Street.
BRISBANE. . Edward & Mary Streets.
PERTH. ..... 33-35 King Street.
MELBOURNE.S2I-523 Collins Street.
ADELAIDE. ... 157 Waymouth Street.
NEWCASTLE.. 17 Bolton Street.


ŕ
A Proven Way to Bigger Profits!
The sales of a Sydney firm increased 450%
in eight months with the aid of Direct Mail
Advertising produced plentifully and cheaply
on the Multigraph.
Hundreds of similar instances are on record
where the Multigraph has built business.
increased profits and cut “overhead” 50%.
Multigraph methods of selling have been
tested and proved by 50,000 firms through-
out the world. .
An investigation costs you nothing. Write
our nearest address for full particulars.
Stott & Underwood, Ltd.,
9-11 O’Connell Street, Sydney.
91-93 William Street, Melbourne.
207 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
21 Grenfell Street, Adelaide.
55 William Street, Perth.
ŗ
A FEW
AUSTRALIAN
USERS:
Dalgety & Co., Ltd.
Ford Motor Co.
(Aust.).
Aust. Gaslight Co.
A.M.P. Society,
Ltd.
British Imperial Oil
Co.
“Gouger”: Monkey, the witch boss of
Port Stewart, recently mentioned in a Bul-
letin par., gave the Cape York Peninsula
police a long chase. Almost all the native
trouble occurring over an extensive district,
from woman-thieving to the pilfering of lug-
gers and spearing of cattle, was planned
in Monkey’s cliarm-filled gunyali. When he
became “wanted,” one Coen constable trailed
him, more or less continuously, for 18
months. His favorite camp commanded a
view of Princess Charlotte Bay. No boat
could sneak into Port Stewart without being
visible to him miles away. At night the
shallows fronting the camp made it unsafe
for a boat to approach. Dense mangroves
on his flanks and rear made it impossible
for him to be rushed, and also afforded
cover into which he could disappear in the
space of seconds. This was Monkey’s sanctu-
ary when 'the police trail grew “hot.” At
other times he camped in the open forest
country amongst the tribe. The camp was
frequently surprised when the police had
reason to believe that Monkey was visiting
it. The constable and his trackers would
make a lightning raid from the 50-miles dis-
HIS OTHER ACCOMPLISHMENT.
TOURIST (after boomerang display): “H’m, is that all you can show me?"
ABO.: "No, boss. I bin show you how to drink harpa bottle rum s'posen you shout.”
tant Coen, camping by day at the foot of
the range and by night pressing forward with-
out horses. Then at the peep of dawn they
would rush the camp. Every known native
would be found to be present with the excep-
tion of Monkey. On one such surprise Mon-
key had shinned up a tree, and drawing the
foliage around him, had crouched there whilst
the timber was being searched by the native
trackers. In the end, the white mans per-
sistence conquered. He was taken to Coen
tamed, and finally a metal plate was put
around his neck. A proud man now, King
Monkey preserves comparative order in his
tribe, and has occasionally proved himself a
handy ally to the police.
* * * *
“Sea Nomad” : Around the shores of Thurs-
day Island (Q.) there are sometimes caught,
especially off the hospital, a species of
snapper which, after lying for 20 minutes in
the dinghy, pervades the atmosphere with
a strong odor of iodoform. The hospital is
built on the sea beach, and a far-fetched
theory is that the fish feed on the drainage
from it. The generally-accepted explanation
is that the fish live largely on a seaweed
heavily impregnated with iodoform, and that
on contact with the air a chemical reaction
takes place within the fishes’ internal organs,
and liberates the iodoform. The belly of the
sea chemist is invariably stained yellow. The
same fish have been caught in the surrounding
islands, but their capture has not been fol-
lowed by the iodoform smell. They make
capital eating.
* * * *
“Six and Eight” : The bite of a lizard is
dangerous, as “Colub” points out (B.
3./2/’27), not by reason of any venom ejected
by it, but because it may set up septicaemia.
There is no venomous lizard known other
than the hclodcrma, found in Mexico. This
lizard’s sub-maxillary gland is enormously
developed, and in its anterior teeth, just as
in those of Australian venomous snakes, is
a deep groove, down which the poison runs.
The fatal effect on mammals of this lizard’s
bite has been proved by experiment.
There is in Townsville to-day
a well-known fisherman who knows some-
thing about poison spikes (B. 3/2/’27), • arid
the after effects of their wounds. Twenty-
four years ago he found a shark in one of
his fish-traps in the vicinity of Cape Cleve-
land, and whilst endeavoring to spear the
intruder he was so unfortunate as to tread
on a stingray, which promptly lashed out
with its tail, the spike entering his leg mid-
way between the knee and the ankle. The
agony was intense, and it was eight hours
before he readied the hospital, where he
occupied a bed for the following four months ;
during that time he had two big operations
for the scraping of the bone, and only just
managed to get out with his leg intact and
apparently cured. Eight months ago, after
an interval of 23 years, trouble again set
in, and the medicoes have informed him that
it is absolutely necessary that he should
be operated on again. The same man has
THE RIG[?] RESISTANT.
“What dost put on tools, bony, to kape ’em from rustin’?”
"Black grease an’ tallow. Ain’t to be baat e— why, even of Teddy Trevarrow’s billy-
goat caan’t lick it!”
been spiked twice in the fingers by the
dreaded stonefish. He avers the pain is worse
than that of the stingray. The fingers were
so numbed that lie was able to hold them for
a time in a billy of boiling water; his other
remedies were tears, prayers and running
up and down the beach.
» * * *
“p-.nl C” • “Plain lane's” plan (B.
rnnslar^ 1 . 1 ? cat localise bleeding!..
give him beaten-up eggs and milk with
brandy or whisky”-—what prodigal extrava-
gance! Give him the emetic, by all means,
but don't cut his ears. You cut
your mate’s ears if be had taken poison.
Well, don’t waste any of the dog either,
Some bush folk suffer from this bleeding
craze so badly that I have come across un-
fortunate curs as bare of ornament as an
egg through having 'their ears and tails
amputated when poisoned or when bitten by
snakes. Get the tyke to vomit thoroughly,
and if you have any brandy or whisky handy
drink it yourself.
.‘* * *
“Sommolo” : W hen “Wingella” (B.
25/11/’2G) asserts that niggers, in their wild
state, use neither salt nor sugar, one won-
ders what breed of black brother has come
within her ken. Here, in the Solomons, a
common article of trade, at native markets
in past days, was sea-water, which was sold
by coastal natives to those from the bush;
and nowadays jars of salt form part of the
ordinary stock of the trader. Any housewife
will confirm the rapacity of the local native
for sugar. Mine keeps hers under lock and
kev, otherwise the depredations of the cooky-
bov would be ruinous. In addition to his
m-ArHlpotinn for* wild lionev the native in
some places manufactures a - kind of molasses
from the fermented juice of the cocoanut.
He suffers as much from malaria as does
the average white man; but, judging by my
own experience, it is more probably due to
the fact that quinine is seldom available to
him in his native state. I consume the aver-
age person’s quantities of salt and sugar, but
have also taken five grains of quinine every
day of my life in the Solomons since, at the
end of my first year of residence, a severe
dose of malaria put me on my back. There
has been practically no recurrence, though it
is now 18 years or more since I became a
“Sorrowful” Islander
Sorrowful Islander. # #
“rp , owi Wpsi” • The birds’ nests from
wlnVh ?be Chinese make soup Se found
mostlv in Borneo thou'di some come from
bSLThV fro
rif iwfi lnnrl«? hlnf»k and white each beinsr
made’by 1 a l ’different variety of swallow ths
bird that builds tbe former being more than
twice as big as its fellow-builder. The white
nests look very clean, like pure white ge a-
tine, and are pactically free from featheis.
They are worth double the price of the black
feather-coated nest. Both made
from the saliva of the birds. If 03 ?® ,
be missed by the nest-collectors,. the birds
forsake their caves, as no room is left toi
them to build again, consequently the gather-
» «*. of excitement to the meet robbers,
*** . *
“Black Tracker”: How’s this for a case
Q f reasoning? Roany was owned by a young
harum-scarum who galloped his mount from
p U fo to pub, using whip and spur freely, but
neglecting the nosebag. One cold morning
on on e of his mad journeys, he pulled up at
a teamster’s camp-fire, and stooping down
began to warm his hands. Roany saw his
chance, and placing liis nose under the
owner’s back quarters, capsized him into the
fire. The next moment the horse was gallop-
j n g away for its life. The teamsters, who
knew the man’s record, pulled him out, but
told him he deserved all he got. I gave a
fiver for the horse, and we learned to love
one another.
* * * *
“Tamornie”: Near the Queensland-N.T.
border I killed a peculiar snake. It was
a b o ut ISin. long, a pasty white in color, with
nume rous orange spots along the back. Pres-
sure at t j le base 0 f two well-developed fangs
caus ed poison to squirt several inches in the
air The blackboys said it was the first they
ha( j seen Cun any Abo. identify the reptile?
* * * *
. „ 01>0
Sigma : White kiddies ait not the y
ones who can weave ingenious cat
cradles.” The little abos. up
string games which throw such homely
designs as the candles and the so dier
bed” into the shade. The little brown imps
industriously make intricate patterns to
represent the wallaby, boomerang, emu, tui tie
and snake, a round rock, the sun, rain and
various kinds of fish and birds. There are
probably several hundred distinct figure
designs. I have seen those I have mentioned,
* * * *
“Bihai” • To stop a leak in a tank of
. a WO rried official at Port Moresby
““ ’ “ , ~ , ~ ~ •,
(Papua) lately set a native to stir the oil
vigorously with a canoe paddle, and then
poured in several bags of cement, buckets of
water and bags of sawdust. Subsequently
the engines of several boats which drew their
oil supply from thtat a„k were succjful y
stopped, but the leak In the tank is still
there Can an, Abo. liar give the necessary
remedy.
OLD MARTIN.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
He followed all the rushes from Kimberley
to Cue,
When Hope kept close beside him and life
seemed ever new.
He dreamed of lodes and leaders, but most he
treasured then
The tales he’d have to tell them when lie got
home again.
The years their toll have taken. Hope walks
with him no more,
And gone the careless courage of those glad
days of yore.
His old mates long have vanished, but still
he stays behind;
The track that led men homeward he never
seemed to find.
But if by chance you ever should pass his
camp by night,
You'll see him sitting, dreaming within the
candle light.
And if you hear him talking, the days where-
of he’ll speak
Are those upon Kurnalpi or, maybe, at the
Peak.
The years slip from his shoulders and still
his eyes are bright
When Martin tells his stories, with none to
hear, at night.
And though he’s old and feeble his knock-
off time seems far
It hen he is back in Magnet—or is it Marble
Bar?
A long farewell to Nannine! Farewell to
Nullagine !
He only now shall travel the road that’s
yours and mine.
And when they put their questions, be it for
good or ill,
Few men will tell their stories as well as
Martin will.
w.A.
OSCAR WALTERS.
“Bill Bowyang” : An English newspaper in
my possession is responsible for the statement
that naked pearl-divers in Torres Strait have
been known to stay under water for a period
of 12min. I’ve watched naked aboriginal
trepang divers in Barrier Reef waters, and
never knew one of them to remain below the
surface longer than 3min. The newspaper
also states that these natives are vastly
superior to any white race at remaining under
water for long periods. But James Finney,
of England, frequently remained under water
for 4min., and the Wallendo Sisters ( U.S.A.)
have a record of smin.


The Australian Provincial Assurance Association Limited
HEAD OFFICE: 77 KING STREET, SYDNEY.
‘Directors: Messrs. W. NORTHAM (Chairman), ALEX. KING, Dr. E. MORRIS HUMPHERY, Senator J. D. MILLEN, and Mr. EDMUND S. W. PAUL.
Total Assets exceed.. .. .. £1,724,000
BRANCHES: Melbourne, Brisbane, Adelaide, Perth, Hobart. NEW ZEALAND: Wellington, Auckland, Christchurch, Dunedin.
SOME REASONS WHY YOU SHOULD INSURE WITH THE A.P.A.:
(1) Because in the event of total disablement for life all future premiums
will be paid by the Association and no deduction made from policy or
bonuses.
(2) Hospital Benefits are given with every Life Policy applicable to public
and private hospitals, varying in amount according to the sum assured
and no deduction made from policy or bonuses.
(3) In the event of loss of eye or limb through accident, a quarter of the
sum assured will be paid forthwith, and the premium reduced propor-
tionately.
(4) PERSONAL ACCIDENT and Combined Benefit Policies provide for
almost every contingency.
NO EXTRA PREMIUM IS CHARGED FOR THESE BENEFITS:
Probate, Children’s Education and Finance Policies specialised.
Applications for Agencies invited from men of integrity.
• GEO.-PEACOCK, F.C.1.5., Secretary.
T. W. RAPLEY, General Manager.
THE MAN
ON THE LAND'S
PAGE
WHAT CROPS CONSUME.
Dr. F. E. Allison, an expert of the Research
branch of the U.S.A. Department of Agri-
culture, lias written a report upon recent
investigations. The most important part of
it is contained in this table:—
Plant Food Constituents Removed From the
Soil by Crops.
Av. Yield Phos-
per acre Nitrogen plioric Potash
Crop. 1924. lb. acid, lb. lb.
Corn (maize).. 23 bu. 36.1 12.7 25.4
Wheat 16 bu. 27.2 10.6 13.4
Oats . . . . 36 bu. 34.6 13.0 29.4
Buckwheat . . 20 bu. 77.5 13.5 60.5
Potatoes .. 124 bu. 26.0 11.2 37.2
Cotton . . 4451 b. 68.2 21.2 47.8
Beets .. 17,8001 b. 44.5 17.8 89.0
Tobacco . . 7231 b. 42.7 5.6 56.4
The nitrogen supply is causing the American
experts the most concern. Dr. Allison says
that lack of this element is mainly respon-
sible “for the low crop yields in the United
States”; and the Department adds: “What
is done with the nitrogen problem in the
next 10 years will probably determine whether
present American standards of living can be
maintained.”
Nitrogen can be —and very largely is—
given to the soil as sulphate of ammonia:
and it is with the production of ammonia
that the chemists are now principally con-
cerned. Of the world’s total annual con-
sumption of 1,500,000 tons of nitrogen, the
sources of supply are: Chilean nitrate de-
posits, 480,000 tons; coke and gas (as by-
products) , 420,000 tons; the atmosphere,
chiefly 600,000 tons. The production of nitro-
gen from the atmosphere is one of the modern
romances of science. It is only 25 years ago
that the world’s first small plant for thus
winning the chemical was set up at Niagara
Falls, and it was followed by a German
plant for winning lime-nitrate; afterwards
came the German ammonia works, which are
already greater than all the others. The
largest of these, at Merseberg, has a capacity
of 1000 tons a‘day and this is to be exten-
ded to 1500 tons. An interesting feature
of these latter works is that they use brown
coal; and of this material Victoria has large
deposits, and probably other Australian
States also.
Australia’s consumption of ammonia is
as yet small; but it is increasing, and must
increase with the use of the soil. At pre-
sent most of the supply comes from coke and
gas works; but there is a small import of
nitrates from Chili, chiefly for use in sugar-
growing in Queensland. The Broken Hill
Proprietary is the largest producer of ammo-
nia at its Newcastle works ; and the exten-
sion of these works is thus a matter of
very practical concern to the agriculturist.
THE PRICE OF FARM LAND.
“Penfield” ; The valuation of land for farm
and grazing purposes is far too loosely done.
I have helped to put a rental value literally
on millions of acres of land, and yet I con-
fess that I never saw a satisfactory formula
for arriving at a fair rental or other value.
The best we could do was to see that Jones
was not paying too much compared with
Smith, and that Smith’s rent was a fair
thing compared with Brown’s. Brown’s was
assumed to be a fair thing because it had
been fixed some years ago and Brown had
since been able to afford to go down to the
Cup pretty regularly. That was pastoral
country, of course. And even that was a
better price-fixing plan than is followed in
connection with most agricultural land.
There are nearly always in an old district
one or two men with earth-hunger who,
wanting to be known as the big men of
their parts, will pay for land more than their
neighbors honestly think it is worth; and
that fixes the price for the neighborhood.
Wheat land has been sold lately on Yorke
Peninsula (S.A.) for over £29 per acre. Cer-
tainly the Peninsula has had an amazing run
of good seasons; in fact, since 1904 it has
had practically only a single bad one. But
prices have been climbing very high in dis-
tricts not so well favored. Part of a Vic-
torian Mallee farm, sold about six years ago
for £5 10s., was again sold this year for £l7.
“But,” you will be told, “eight baas have
been got from that land.” We often mislead
ourselves when we talk of eight bags and go
into a few figures as to what that means.
“Eight bags at ss. 2d. a bushel is £6 45.;
and it doesn’t take long at that rate to pay
off £17.” First, though, the crop was almost
for certain taken off fallow; and that means
a crop in two years. And, though fallow land
is not idle land, he is a lucky wheat-farmer
who can get a crop off more than 40 p.c. of
his holding. The farmer doesn’t make enough
use of the professional accountant and audi-
tor. If he put £5OOO into Government stock
lie would expect to get—and could certainly
get—£27s a year for his money without any
labor whatever. How often does he, when
valuing a farm at £5OOO, reckon that he must
get even £275 a year from it in addition to
the value of his labor?
Certainly this loose valuation of land is
not confined to Australia. In 1890, in lowa,
one of the great central agricultural States
of America, the average value of all farm
land was $28.13 per acre; in 1900 it was
343.31; in 1910, $96; in 1920, $227.09.
The rise was, of course, far too rapid; and
in 1925 there was an awful slump to $l4B.
The cables mentioned a tremendous number
of bank failures in lowa as a consequence.
The farmer ought to beware of land in a dis-
trict with rapidly rising values —that is to
say, if he is a real farmer and not a specu-
lator. On the Stock Exchange men are every
day paying far more for shares than they
know they are worth at the moment; they
figure upon something or other happening
which will put the stock still higher, when
they will be able to sell at a profit. The
same thing happens with farm lands; specu-
lators will pay more than the land is worth
because they believe that somebody else who
is looking for a profit will pay still more,
and the farmer, who has to depend on what
the land will produce, is caught in the
process.
THE LITTLE THINGS THAT COUNT.
“Two Seas”; It was at a clearing-out sale,
and walking around with a brother-cocky
looking at the tools and implements laid out
by the auctioneer’s
assistant in suit-
able lots, my friend
remarked : “I can't
understand h o w
this man failed on
a decent farm like
this.” I pointed to
an axe that lay on
the grass before us.
“T ha t tells,” I
said. He looked at
it and laughed.
“Yes,” he said,
“q u i t e tru e.”
What he saw was
that the head of
the axe was put on
the handle upside
dow n. A small
thing, but to us it
told a story. The
man who was being
sold up had spent
most of his life in
a city drapery
store. But he had
listened to the fools
who told him that
the land is the royal road to fortune that
any mug can travel.
THE “BAD” HORSE.
“Up Top” : In a mob of horses, as of men,
there is nearly always one bad ’un ; he slyly
awaits a chance to attack his cobbers, chooses
critical occasions to take his master at a
disadvantage, and schemes to dodge his legi-
timate labor. I’ve known horses to sham
lameness, and the cunning with which a
beast will stand with silent bell under a
tree and watch his boss searching for him
is a proverb in bushland. A devout bush-
man drew my attention to a particularly
vicious beast with narrow nose and head and
retreating forehead. “By their foreheads
ye shall know them,” he remarked. Then I
recalled a vicious beast of my own. First
I thought it had no brains at all (it had
that sort of head) ; then it kidded me for
seven months that it was really a docile
pet; finally it took me unawares, and knocked
sparks from the stones while trying to kick
out my brains.
A NEW BREED OF GAME FOWL.
“Miller”: A S.A. farmer found a nest
of young hawks in his wheat crop. They
were nearly fledged. Taking them home, he
found that the missus had a crate of young
cockerels ready to ship to the city. In a
spirit of mischief he put the hawks in with
the poultry. In due course the lady received
a return from the produce merchants which
showed that while the cockerels had brought
only Is. 6d. each, the “game fowls” had
“realised the very satisfactory figure of 4s.
apiece.”
LAMB MARKING.
“J.D.C.”: To get through a big mob
in a limited time the expert requires
two small yards adjoining (one fill-
ing as the other empties), at least
eight catchers, and the lambs drafted
from the ewes. In this way there is no
lost time, and the man who can’t knife 1000
an hour doesn’t know his job. Of course ear-
marking is not part of the cutter’s job, and
where more than one mark is put in, or two
different pliers have to be used, two ear-
markers will be required to follow the knife.
The knife man has to throw the tails into
two heaps so that a tally will give the num-
her of each sex. An occasional “stumpy” is
met with, and this is got over by cutting
the next tail in two.
Feeling for the tail joint with the thumb-
nail is quite unnecessary—if the knife-blade
is held at a slight angle it can’t help slip-
ping into the joint. It should be pushed
upwards towards the butt of the tail, carry-
ing the skin with it, so that when docked,
the skin will completely cover the joint. If
it is cut off square, the bone will project
and the wound take much longer to heal.
There is a difference of opinion as to
whether the purse should be “topped” or
“split,” but the latter has the advantage of
being faster, and also leaves the fat wether
with a bigger “cod” and better appearance.
For the actual extraction several patents are
on the market; but for pace, accuracy and
convenience none of them equals a strong set
of teeth.
TARBRANDING.
“Bidgee”: Wool manufacturers in Eng-
land and elsewhere have of late been raising
a considerable outcry re injury to wool as
a result of branding sheep. This operation
is still referred to as “tar” branding, though
tar is now rarely used. Various paint, oil
and dye mixtures have been tried, but it
has been found from long experience that
to be effectual as a brand the material used
must be ot such consistency that it is almost
impossible to scour out, and traces of it may
still be found in the finished commodity. A
Dunedin chemist reports having discovered
a cheap and effectual material which, after
scouring, leaves no deleterious effects in the
wool, and samples have been forwarded to
“Did you hear what happened to Mrs. Wyandotte? She was in
training for the egg-laying competition, and had a
nervous breakdown.”
“I always said she was too highly strung for a professional life.”
Australia to be tested under field conditions.
This may alleviate or remove the trouble.
To many sheepowners the tarbranding of
sheep seems a quite unnecessary trouble and
expense. The primary object of branding
was identification. The nose-mark and fire-
brand used for the same purpose, though
much more effectual, are both practically
abandoned. In these days of compulsory
registration of earmarks, not one practical
man in ten ever refers to the tarbrand to
identify a sheep. In any case, the brand is
always applied straight “off the board,” and
in cases where the sheep are poor or hollow
not half of them are properly branded. A
further number of the branded sheep are
hopelessly smudged by climbing on each
other in the branding race while still wet;
and a small percentage is missed altogether.
In dusty yards and during dry weather the
brand becomes nearly invisible for the first
month or two. but shows up better as the
wool begins to grow. As the fleece reaches
three-quarter growth to full length, the tips
often become ragged and more open, and even
one brand in three is very hard to identify.
The Department of Stock compels all
stockowners to register and use a brand. This
is certainly required for big stock, but as
regards tarbranding sheep the procedure is
unnecessary, useless, and a detriment to the
wool. Plenty of small owners never used
a tarbrand until compelled by Act of Par-
liament, and even now the brand is often
merely dabbed on the animal for no other
reason than to comply with the require-
ments of the law. A considerable amount of
time and money has been spent by the
Research Association in Great Britain, first
as to the material to be used, and then as
to the proper method of removing it from
the wool. As tarbranding is of little or no
service to the sheepowner, and is a decided
drawback in the clip, why not abandon the
performance outright?
TOMATO DISEASES.
“Bar K.” : When 1 first started to grow
tomatoes —it was a good many years ago—
my crops were assailed by every known and
unknown disease. 1 was told all sorts of
remedies —especially to push a nail through
the stem of the plant to prevent wilt. They
weren’t much good. Time and bitter experi-
ence have taught me a few better things.
I have obtained good results by, first, plant-
ing the seed in drills four inches apart, and
not too thick, in the seed beds. Spray with
nicotine solution, and also with Bordeaux
mixture, in the seed boils, and about every
two or three weeks in the field. Destroy every
plant that shows signs of disease. Spotted
or bronze wilt is described by its name; and,
while no cure for it has yet been discovered,
it can be controlled by destroying all insect
carriers with the nicotine solution, and de-
stroying all diseased plants. Bordeaux mix-
ture controls blight, which causes the leaves
and stems to wilt off in black patches, and
later turns the fruit black and spongy and
rotten at the crowns. The black spot on the
ends of the fruit is really more of a mechani-
cal trouble than a disease, and is caused by
an uneven or inadequate supply of moisture
while the bulk of the fruit is setting. Tli"
sap-carrying veins dry off and rupture, and
portion of the fruit dies, and is then attacked
by a fungus, which is the result, rather than
the cause, of the trouble. Good rains, or
regular watering, followed by cultivation, will
stop this ailment.
Putting a nail through the stem of the
plant is as effective as bowing nine times to
the new moon.
PINE TIMBER.
“ J.D.C,” : The native pine constitutes the
great bulk of the inland timber trees of N. 8.
Wales, and lias increased in value nearly five-
fold in the last 20 years. Well-grown and
properly-seasoned pine is almost unprocur-
able, and young, sappy stuff, which a few
years ago would not have been used in a
“drop” fence, is being sent to tin* mills.
There is little prospect of the supply increas-
ing, as this tree is quite unsuitable for arti-
ficial production and is of slow growth,
requiring, in some cases, nearly 50 years to
reach a diameter of Ift.
The method in vogue for the preservation
of pine forests is wrong, and results have
been far from satisfactory. After an area
has been proclaimed a “timber reserve,” the
usual procedure is to begin thinning out the
young growth and useless trees, the object
being to stimulate the development of the
better types. This is the first mistake, and
is entirely against Nature. If young pines
are given room they will always spread later-
ally, the growth going mainly into the
branches at the expense of the trunk, and
only a rough, knotty log will result. Nature
plants the pine in mass, as thick as a crop
of wheat. There is only one way for the
young stuff to grow—straight up. Any
attempt to throw out lateral branches is
checked ; they wither away and fall off, leav-
ing a clean, straight barrel. As the trees
develop, the weaker ones are gradually
choked out, and the space occupied by those
of stronger growth. So dense is the natural
growth of a pine forest that even in the best
seasons there is little or no grass on the
ground, and the risk of fire is slight. There
is practically no debris beneath the trees;
the limbs, being small, are rarely broken off:
and the leaves, or “needles,” decay rapidly
and do not accumulate. Once the thinning-
out and cleaning-up process begins, Nature's
scheme is interfered with, the bushy top
develops, grass grows in the cleared spaces,
the wind wrenches the trees about, uproot-
ing many, and the first fire to start wipes
out the whole show.
The pine, having no taproot, does not
stand up well without support, and it i*
common to se,a miles of long, straight trunks
flattened out when a big rainfall is followed
by heavy wind. Scattered pines sometimes
left in a cultivation paddock eventually blow
down if of any size, and the younger ones
have a tendency to become “pipey.” The
latter peculiarity is attributed to the fact
that the plcfugh breaks the lateral roots,
which decay and carry the rot to the heart
of the tree. In pine plantations the young
trees are invariably too widely spaced, and
as a result develop limbs instead of logs.
The only way to get results is to select belts
of dense natural growth, reserve them from
lease or sale, and allow them to develop natu-
rally. Any attempt to combine forests and
grazing on the same area will never produce
decent timber.
TOMATOES AND FAT.
“A.G.F.”: The old-fashioned doctor ir
Australia hasn’t been a very good friend of
the tomato-grower; one very well-known city
diagnostician was accustomed to say that “you
might' as well take a meal out of the bel-
(Continued on page 31.)


For Summer Fallowing
M
m '
Hi
’
: >
i
is
m:
H
wm
1
Wm
■
lllfi
i
v 1
SI
1
■
Mi
a
mm
:
.
■
1
■: H
■
I
Sill
m
£
■
H
I'
The
Svmdercut
Summer Fallowing means a great increase in yield. It is best done with the Sundercut, which
will turn very hard soil. It is also the only tool to cope with paddy-melon and other difficult
weed growths on the fallow.
Sow Scientifically
The
Suntyne
JBt
The Tyne Cultivator and the Grain and Fertiliser Drill combined in one implement. Its method
of sowing conserves moisture, hastens germination, and increases the yield.
Write for illustrated catalogue of all Sunshine Implements and Engines. Prices are lowest, and terms most liberal.
H. V. McRAY PTY., LTD.
SUNSHINE HARVESTER WORKS
BRISBANE, SYDNEY, MELBOURNE, ADELAIDE, PERTH


Missing Friend.
EORGE GILMOUR. Information is
V-X required as to death of George Gilmour,
who is believed to have died by accident in
Sydney during the past three years as a
result of a fall from a window. Any person
who can give particulars of the death should
communicate with the undersigned. A reward
will be given.
SEWELL & SEWELL,
Solicitors, Colac, Victoria.
Legal Notice.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF QUEENKI
1 TO JOHN FREDERICK WATTERS
TAKE NOTICE that an action ha, been "eminence,
against you in the Supreme Court of OueensW
No. 471 of 1920 by Bertha Watters your wife ,
which the Plaintiff claims a dissolution of he,
marriage with you arid by .‘the Petition tiled in thi-
matter on the twenty-first; day of October
Plaintiff alleged that in or about the month jl
June 1919 you deserted- her without cause anc
since ,that date deserted and remained absent from her
without cause continuously for five years and upward-
and prays to have the custody of the child to wit
JOHN,. HERBERT , and TAKE NOTICE that the
Court has by order dated the twenty-fifth dav of
February • 1927 authorised service of the Writ* ami
Petition herein .on : you by filing in the Registry
of the Supreme Court on the notice-board in the
said Registry a copy. of the Writ of Summons and
Office Copy of the Petition and also by the insertion
of an advertisement once in the following newspaper-
namely: The Bulletin (Sydney) and The Queens
lander and TAKE NOTICE that you are required
within thirty; ; ; days from 'the date of the last act
done in pursuance of the said Order to cause an
appearance to be- entered for you at the Rcgistrv of
the Supreme Court of Queensland at Brisbane and
that in default of your so doing the Plaintiff may
proceed in the action and that judgment may be
recovered against-you in your absence.
F. S. KENNEDY,
Registrar.
J. J. O’Connor, Solicitor for Plaintiff, Brisbane.
ALT, AUSTRALIANS visiting London
should read the British Australian
and New Zealander, (id. weekly—an illus-
trated paper containing mail and cable news
from Australia and news of Australians in
Europe and at home. Australians are cordi-
ally invited to visit the British Australian
and New Zealander Reading-room at the
Offices, 414-17 Australia House, Strand.
London, WC.2, where they can see the home
papers, meet their friends, use the telephone
and obtain information without charge.
Copies of the paper and general information
can be obtained at the Australian Advertis-
ing Agency, Ltd.. 350 George Street, Sydney ;
or 434 Collins Street, Melbourne.
RUPTURE.
A FREE TRIAL.
II Tow*ra troubled with the complaint, write in and
we will tend you our catalogue, fully describing our
PATENT AIR CUSHION APPLIANCE.
This appliance does away with all cumbersome
springs, giving a feeling of ease and comfort Irom the
first day s use. It-is: tile most scientific appliance yet
invented for. this complaint. It will hold a rupture
firmly and comfortably under all conditions.
To prove what we state
WE OFFER TO SEND IT TO YOU
ON A FREE TRIAL.
If it it not satisfactory we do not expect you to keep
it, and the trial costs you nothing. It is suitable for
men, women and children, and the price is within
the reach of all.
ILLUSTRATED CATALOGUE
posted free anywhere.
THE WINSLOW CO.
104 Queen Street, Melbourne, Vic.
If any illustration in The Bulletin takes
your fancy, write to the Manager, who will
quote you price for the original.
324-330 PITT 5T
SYDNEY
391-403 BOURKD ST-MELBOURNE*.
for
No. 1 LESSON.
Hot Water Supply
Hot water for baths and kitchen is so much a necessity that, under thb
new regulations, establishments catering for tourists, travellers and the
general public must provide it.
Ideal
DdmestiC
■TL BOILERS
*°* hot water sup**
nt snugly into any kitchen scheme. They maintain a constant supply of
hot water to every “hot” tap in the house at a nominal charge for upkeep.
Thousands of installations all over Australia are maintaining the lead for
cheap and copious hot-water supply.
Tell us the number of points you require hot water delivered to and we
will quote an approximate price.
No. 2 LESSON
Super Electric Cooking
If you have electricity in your home no
range offers so many advantages as a
modern Electric. So clean, so sure, so
easy to operate. And best.of all is:—
Ipfe
1|
8:
m
ř
r
ŕ
equipped with all the newest features. Oven has seamless porcelain enamelled
interior. All parts removable. Cooking surface has Speediron Protected
Cooking Elements —smooth, damage-proof and trouble-proof— the elements
that heat faster, last longer, are removable, renewable and- repairable. Range
beautifully finished in black enamel with white enamelled door panels, high
back and bright nickelled trimmings. A in every detail.
Five designs just to hand. 7
CALL AND INSPECT OR WRITE FOR LEAFLET.
324-330
PITT STREET,
SYDNEY.
JOHN DANKS & SON PTY., LTD
, , 391-403
BOURKE STREET,
MELBOURNE.
THE PORT OF NORTH
QUEENSLAND.
THE CLAIMS OF TOWNSVILLE.
The report of Sir George Buchanan
upon Queensland harbors contains a sug-
gestion that Cairns and Rockhampton
or Gladstone should be marked down as
future oversea ports and Townsville main-
tained as a coastal port only. Now, Towns-
ville is the seaport serving that immense
tract of country tapped by the Great North-
Western Railway, which penetrates into the
interior a distance of 561 miles, and is being
still further extended. Sir George Buchanan
did not have an opportunity of visiting this
great western district, and his report leads
one to believe he has given it no considera-
tion. Its main products, wool, frozen meats,
tallow, hides, skins, etc., are oversea exports,
whereas the principal products of the Cairns
hinterland, viz., timber, sugar, maize, etc.,
are mostly used for home consumption. The
aim of all shippers of frozen products in
view of climatic conditions is that as little
delay as possible shall occur between the
time of tlieir goods leaving their chambers
until they are safely stowed upon the export-
ing steamer, and yet Sir George calmly
ignores all such considerations and ventures
what appears to the undersigned as an ill-
considered opinion that oversea steamers
should pass this port whilst journeying to
find from Cairns and that shipments after
reaching Townsville, which is at present the
principal port of call for oversea steamers
in North Queensland, should be conveyed a
further 210 miles by railway, over a line the
traffic on which in the wet season is subject
to dislocation, to Cairns, where the harbor
dues and berthage charges are much higher
and the facilities less. At present the mini-
mum width of the entrance channel to Towns-
ville Harbor is 250 feet, which is to be in-
creased to 350 feet, and a section has already
been completed. The wharves accommodat-
ing oversea and inter-State steamers have a
frontage of 2800 feet, to which 650 feet is
about to be added, whilst for small vessels
there is a further 700 feet of wharfage in the
inner harbor. The outer swing basin has a
width of over 1000 feet. The minimum depths
of water are : Entrance channel, 22 feet at low
water, ordinary spring tides; and berths, 26
feet at Lw.o.s.t. The tidal rise is: Springs,
8 feet to 12 feet; extraordinary springs, 18
inches higher; neaps, 4 feet to 8 feet. At
Cairns the present wharfage is 1500 feet, to
which an addition of 400 feet is to be made.
The depth of water at the wharves is from
22 to 24 feet at 1.w.0.5.t. The approach to
the Inlet is a channel which has been dredged
a distance of over three miles through the
soft, oozy mud of Trinity Bay. The width is
given in the Sailing Directions for 1926 as
130 feet, and the depth as approximately 21
feet at 1.w.0.5.t. The tidal rise at Cairns is:
Springs, 6 feet to 9 feet; neaps, 4 feet to
7 feet. The difference between the existing
facilities of the respective ports is apparent.
Trinity Bay is a very shallow bay and the
bottom soft mud, through which a narrow
channel, as previously mentioned, has been
artificially created. The Barron River,
which discharges into the bay, brings with
it extensive deposits of silt. One therefore
wonders what influenced Sir George to refer
to Cairns as a "natural harbor.” The Marine
Department’s report for twelve months ended
30th June, 1926, shows the Port Dues Col-
lections at Cairns under the provisions of
“The Navigation Act 1876-1920” amounted
to £3846 Os. 9d. and : at Townsville to
£7089 13s.
Before embarking on enterprises of magni-
tude in this country one naturally studies
successful ventures in others ; and looking to
Great Britain, we find the successful fulfil-
ment of the antithesis of Sir George's views
m Manchester, an inland city a few miles
from the great port of Liverpool, converted
by means of a canal, docks, etc., into a port,
for the express purpose of reducing the cost
of rail and other transport. Yet Sir George
recommends to North Queeiislanders the
passing of an established port where much
greater interests are centred than exist at
Cairns, and adding to present costs a further
210 miles of transport! A leading article
in the Townsville Daily Bulletin of
February 7 points out the distance between
Rockhampton and Cairns is over 600 miles,
and draws attention to the absurdity, of the
proposition to exclude the most central port
in North Queensland from filling this enor-
mous gap in the littoral. The following
remarks taken from the same article con-
stitute a further conclusive reply to Sir
George’s contention: “Townsville is essen-
tially the port of export for oversea stuff
because its wool, meat, hides and tallow,
worth about £4,500,000 to £5,000,000 per
annum, before the 1926 drought, formed over
two-thirds of Townsville's total exports.
About 99 per cent, of the wool produced in
North Queensland is sent from this port, and
the oversea freight value is equal to all the
other North Queensland ports put together.
This, too, in face of the fact that
£2,500,000 worth of wool a year from Towns-
ville sold in Brisbane is credited to the
latter port. If Sir George Buchanan had
only consulted the ‘Australian Year Book,’
the highest official authority in the Common-
wealth, he would have found it difficult to
justify his recommendation for the exclu-
sion of Townsville from consideration as an
oversea port. The figures relating to ton-
nage entering the various ports are impres-
sive, but the values of exports and imports
of the various Queensland ports render Sir
George’s recommendations still more surpris-
ing, Because of the remarkable preponderance
in favor of Townsville. The ‘Australian Year
Book’ for 1926, the last issued, page 244.
gives the total shipping tonnage, oversea,
inter-State and. coastal, for the year ended
June, 1925, in Queensland, as follows :
Brisbane 3,245.938
Townsville 1,035,706
Cairns 607,982
Mackay 486,953
Rockhampton .. .. 436,275
Bowen 321,990
Thursday Island . . . . 313,985
“Then we come to the same authority as to
the value of oversea exports and imports
for the year ended .Tune, 1925. As Sir
George lias ruled out Townsville as an over-
sea port, these figures are especially interest-
ing; they appear on page 211, ‘Australian
Year Book’ for 1926
OVERSEA TRADE, PRINCIPAL PORTS.
Year 1924-25.
Imports.' Exports. Total Trade.
Brisbane .. 10,864,222 18,859,472 29,723,694
Townsville .. 846,152 1*970,706 2,816,858
Rockhampton. . 490,292 1,180,869 1,671,161
All oAher
Q’land ports 632,709 . 2,430,553 3,063,262
“From the above table it would appear that,
although at least three-fourths of the wool
exported from Townsville which finds its
way to London is first shipped to and sold
in Brisbane, and thus not credited to Towns-
ville’s oversea trade, this port has an over-
sea trade almost equal to all the Queensland
ports put together outside Brisbane and
Rockhampton. With such a pre-eminence in
oversea trade to show, it is amazing to find
Sir George excluding Townsville from over-
sea trade possibilities.
“It is also worth while to detail the posi-
tion of Townsville amongst Australian ports
as set forth on page 244 of the ‘Australian
Year Book’ for 4926. The figures are:— l
Total Shipping TonnAgf of Principal Ports.
Year 1924-25.
Port. Tons.
Sydney .. .. .. 9,131,675
Melbourne .. . . 6,939,642
Newcastle .. .. 5,120,541
Adelaide .... 4,935,155
Brisbane .. .. 3,245,938
Fremantle . .. .. 3,032,845
Townsville . . .. 1,035,706
Hobart ... .. .... . 737,633
Port Pirie.. .. 730,550
Albany . . .., 648,585
Port Keinbla .. .. 630,429
Cairns . . . . .. 607,982
Geelong .... . . 562,379
Mackay . . . . . . 486,953
Bunbury ... ~ .. 440,378
Rockhampton . , . . 436,275
Burnie 399,909
Launceston ~ .. 380,881
Wallaroo .. .. .. 334,116
Devonport .. .. 326,511
Bowen 321,990
Thursday Island . . . . 313,985
“Why Sir George should ignore Towns-
ville’s seventh on the list of Australian ports
and seek to place it among the coastal har-
bors only, in the face of the above convincing
figures, requires explanation. In the past
Townsville has easily led in trade outside
Brisbane, a fact largely due to its geographi-
cal position, which makes it the port, not
only for coastal areas, North and South, but
for the great West, extending 1000 miles into
the Northern Territory.”
J. E. CLEGG,
Chairman, Townsville Harbor Board.
Townsville (N.Q.), 14/3/’27.


WiW'26.
iulfllSfi
mm
I/ondon Office;
"Gresham House,”
Old Broad Streetj E.C.2.
ELECTROLYTIC ZINC
BRAND BRAND
Containing about 99.95% Metallic Zinc
(99.9% guaranteed).
ZINC CONCENTRATES
Various Grade*.
Zinc Producers’ Association ltd!,
Contractors with the Board of Trade.
COLLINS HOUSE, 360 COLUNS STREET, MELBOURNE.
Ericsson Telephone Mfg. Co.
(Formerly James Paton & Co.)
Sole Importers of the Famous Ericsson Telephone and Switchboard
Apparatus, for Magneto, Common Battery and Automatic
WIRELESS APPARATUS,
19 YORK STREET, SYDNEY; 509 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE.
PO
ř
I POLISHES—PRESERVES—PREVENTS CRACKS
BOSTOCK’S Shoe Creams are made in all
principal shades, and especially noted for the
New Shade of Bois-de-Rose, Putty, Sunburn
and Oak.
Price 6<f, per tube. Obtainable Everywhere .
If any illustration in “THE BULLETIN” takes your fancy, write
to the MANAGER, who will quote you price for the original.
V
V
Sanatsgen is
obtainable at all
Chemists from
3/9 per tin.
The key to
Better Health
The strain of modem life is too great
for most people. Something is wanted
that will give extra vigour to nerves
and blood. Sanatogen does just that;
it infuses into the cells of blood and
nerves those elements —phosphorus and
albumin which build New Strength.
Dame Sarah Grand, Mayoress of Bath,
writes:
"Nothing ever does me so much good
when Fm run-down as Sanatogen.
It has set me up, and kept me up,
again and again.”
Sanatogen is the key that fits, the key
that will open a new era of healthy,
happy life for you. A few weeks
will show you.
SANATOGEN
The True Tonic-Food
GENATOSAN LTD., LOUGHBOROUGH, ENGLAND.
lows.” Of course he didn’t know; probably
lie never had seen an analysis of the vege-
table. Tomatoes are high in mineral matter
—phosphates, limes, potash, sulphur and
iron. American authorities declare that the
iron makes the tomato an excellent bone
and body builder. A leading Chicago doc-
tor lately said that it could be regarded
almost as a medicine: (1) it is rich in vita-
mines ; (2) it is a blood cleanser; (3) its
acids tone up the stomach; (4) it aids the
kidneys; (5) it is a help in diabetes. A
Chicago hospital doctor reported: “The vita-
mine content of tomatoes is accomplish-
ing undreamed-of things in the feeding of
children in this hospital.” But there is
another effect upon which great stress is
now being laid. Excessive fat is not
only unfashionable; it is unnatural and
dangerous, and in the great Presbyterian
Hospital in New York tomatoes are used
for fat reduction.
WHEAT PROSPECTS.
From a review of census figures by the
U.S.A. Department of Agriculture:—
Largely as a result of war-time prices, about
40,000,000 acres of pasture land had been ploughed
up and put into crops between 1909 and 1919, and
about 5,000,000 acres of forest land had been
rleared for crops. Had there been the same rate of
increase from 1909 to 1919 as during the previous
decade relative to the increase in population, only
about 23,000,000 acres additional of crop land
would have been brought under cultivation.
Canada, Argentine and (it is believed) Rus-
sia also have opened up large areas. On
the other hand, world-consumption has in-
creased enormously. The figures, neverthe-
less, suggest that no very high prices can be
expected, and that the Australian farmer
cannot be safely loaded with any heavier
charges.
THE “POMMY.”
“P.H.S.”: The “pommy,” as. he is called
id there really, is no reason why he.
should be touchy about it—does not always
get a fair deal from us. We expect too much
from him; and he expects too much from
us. We don’t allow enough for the differ-
<nce in the conditions under which the two
of us have been brought up. The Austra-
lian —especially the back-country Australian
—is the most ingenious person in the world
at “making things do.” Also he has the
most initiative. 71 is conditions have made
these qualities inevitable. The “pommy” has
been brought up in conditions which have
not developed these qualities to any extent
worth mentioning. We shouldn’t have them
i itlier if we had lived as he has lived; and
In will probably have them long before lie
dies, and if he hasn’t them liis children will
be just as good as we are. Perhaps, in fact,
the qualities will be better developed in him
than in those of us who have been longer
in the land and have managed to get into
the easier places. For, after all, the struggle
nf the Australian farmer’s son to get to the
city means that he has got tired of “putting
'i:i with things” and of “making things do.”
Thirty years ago the farmer had to be pretty
well able to do everything that had to be
one on a farm, and of doing it with a
niece of fencing-wire or something of the
- rt. To-day, when he can ring up the near-
er township or run there in his car, he is
getting more like the “pommy” with whom
lie often has so little patience.
There is one person who ought to have a
good deal of sympathy with him, and that
is the farmer’s wife. She has no doubt
admired her husband’s resourcefulness. But
she has been a great sufferer from his habit
of “making things do.” Things have im-
proved a bit lately; but there is still a lot
of room for improvement in the average farm-
er's home. Though the mortgage doesn’t
press like it did. and though there is no
longer a year-old bill owing at the store, she
still has to suffer inconveniences which a
very little labor and a very little outlay
would remove.
“Two Seas” : A fact that is very difficult
to make the “choom” on a farm understand
is that to leave an axe or any other steel
tool exposed to the heat of the sun all day
spoils the temper of both the tool and the
boss.
• * * *
“Pick” : The deep soil along the Snowy at
Orbost (Vic.) is the place for record pump-
kins. On Jack Stevens's holding this season
one vegetable at the end of a 40ft,. vine
weighed 3901 b. The shell hollowed out made
a playhouse for the grower’s children, four
of whom were photographed seated com-
fortably inside.
i . * * •
“Jesmond” : According to apiologists of the
U.S.A. Department of Agriculture, the aver-
age working bee makes only 82 honey-gatlier-
ing trips during its lifetime, and collects
only about 12 large drops of nectar alto-
gether. In tlieir opinion lib. of honey repre-
sents the lifework of 567 bees. Who is right?
Do the opinions of Fabre, Quimby and Others
still hold good, or are the Yankee experts
correct ?
* * * *
“J.McG.” : There would be much more in
breeding tailless sheep than the mere sav-
ing of the cost of the marking operation. The
animal would mature at least a month sooner
and be much better able to endure the other
essential operation. My experience is that
the fatter the lamb is at the time of tailing
the more it suffers and the greater is the
set-back. But I doubt whether a tailless
sheep can be evolved comparable to the one
nature has endowed with a tail.
* * * *
“Centurion”: According to Weddel and
Co.’s annual report, a sort of Bible of tlio
meat trade. Britain is becoming the greatest
meat-eating country in the world. Every
man. woman and child in Britain ate over
21b. per week in 1926: the_ imported meat
consumed rose from 886.655 tons in 1925
to 930.035 tons. To an Aussie. 21b. a week
does not seem a high average. If it went up
to 11b. a day, now. the Australian cattle-
raiser might bid dull edre begone.
» # * *
“Saaedi”: Iron is likely to play a large
part in the fencing of sheep-runs throughout
Australia. Owing to the short-sightedness
of early pastoralists far too much valuable
fencing-timber was destroyed. Bush-fires
have been responsible for the destruction of
hundreds of miles of fencing during recent
years, and time has accounted for many
miles more. To get the best out of coun-
try, sheep must be kept in small mobs, so
a wholesale resort to iron posts is inevitable.
* * * *
“T.S.”: The corrugations in his dome
warned me that ’Orace was thinking deeply.
’Grace is our new jackeroo, and, like all
city youth in the bush, is always asking
questions. “What does a-slieep-to-the-acre
country mean?” he inquired. “I’m always
coming across it in the stock papers.” I ex-
plained the term carefully, as I thought; but
my answer didn't satisfy ’Orace’s thirst for
details. “Then why,” he inquired, “do I
never see a sheep with an acre to itself?”
* * * *
“Bill Bowyang” : If experiments now being
carried meet with success, X.Q. and N.S.W.
fruit-growers will not be troubled, much
longer with the flying-fox. A Bowen (N.Q.)
man has forwarded a parcel of fox-skins to a
Sydney tanner, and later on they will be
sent to U.S.A.; it is believed that the furry
portion of the skin will find a market for
trimming cuffs and collars of coats. The
film-like skin on the wings of the creature
may also suit for covering the tops of medi-
cine-bottles.
* * * *
“M.G.S.”: A modest but interesting
attempt to plant men and trees at one and
the same i-ime is being made by the Vic.
b crests Department. Basing its scheme on
the hope that the Development and Migra-
tion Commission will splurge the money, the
department proposes to put settlers, prefer-
ably trained foresters from Britain, on 100-
acre lots in the Otway and Beech forests.
In between the intervals of farming they will
be asked to spend their surplus energy in
planting spruce and pine, and will be paid
wages for it.
* * * *
“G.8.L.”: In my garden is a young and
dinkum Australian tree of which, I believe,
there are only four or five other specimens
in Australia. It is the scarlet-flowering
kurrajong. It is said that the original tree,
a hybrid, is growing somewhere near Went-
worth (N.S.W.). A few young branches
were taken from it and grafted on to ordi-
nary black kurrajong stocks. My tree was
so grafted, and is now growing vigorously.
When, in time, it bursts into crimson masses
of blossom, as I anticipate it will do, it
should be the envy of my neighbors.
• * * *
“Hayband” : On Jack Kelly’s farm at Gan-
main (N.S.W.), Kelly Brothers’ chaffcutter
put through 12 stacks of wlieaten hay, total-
ling 960 tons, in the 26 working days of
April, 1928. Admittedly the days were mag-
pie to mopoke; but that doesn’t matter —
they’re the only kind the bustling ’cutter
knows. It is the best chaffing performance I
know of, averaging over 36 tons daily. The
machine had to be shifted and re-set six
times. The chaff-stack at one time contained
2660 bags—l 9 high by 14 long. That is the
biggest open-air stack I’ve seen. Incident-
ally, though two inches of rain alighted on
the stack, the “cut” consistently topped the
Sydney market.
*****
“D. Bee”: I have so often heard old
stagers in South Australia insist that sum-
mers are not so hot as they were “when we
were boys,” that I determined to see if statis-
tics supported that contention. The Adel-
aide records, carefully kept since 1857, cer-
tainly show a consistent decline since early
times, though the peak year (five years above
average) was 1914, and the lowest (five
degrees below) was in 1873. The Common-
wealth Meteorologist suggests that “the fall
may be due to changes in the instruments
or to growth of trees and building altera-
tions or to both.” He leaves it at that,
though he has some good words to say
of the old instruments and the old-time
meteorologists.
* * * *
“Cartot”: Quite recently in Sydney a
valuable stud mare which should have foaled
about the end of November last did not do
so until January 21. or eight weeks over
the proper date. Also, in 1925 a Vic-
torian racing mare carried her foal for nine
weeks and five days beyond the approximate
date on which the foaling should have taken
place. In both instances there was not the
slightest, possibility of a mistake in dates
having been made, since, the mares being
blood-stock, the most careful records were
kept. Biologists and stockbreeders have
advanced a number of theories to explain
the occurrence, but so far the majority of
them seem to be wide of the mark and none
of them really feasible. This phenomenon is
almost unknown in other animals.
*** - *
“Toongooroo” : This is true. A boundary-
rider on Ularunda, out in S.-W. Queensland,
reported a bad rent in the dog-proof fence
somewhere on his beat. It was about three
feet from the ground and about 2ft. in diam-
eter. Investigation didn’t yield anything
definite, and the wound was sutured with
fencing-wire. A few days later the boundary-
rider reported a similar rent about the same
elevation and about two yards to the left.
This time the rent was left undarned and
a shot-gun set in a way calculated to do
most damage. A few days later a fine,
healthy dingo, well filled with shot, was found
near the opening. He was returning from
a foray that must have been particularly
attractive, for he had eaten and clawed his
way through that bit of dog-netting twice.
* * * *
“Sylvester” : To dairymen troubled by cows
that jump fences let me tell how one was
cured. Having got tired of searching the
patldocks for this heifer, my son tried an
experiment. He got a piece of timber about
4ft. 6in. long and fastened it vertically to the
neck with No. 8 wire. He then bored a hole
in the bottom end and, drove a 4in. bolt
through, allowing it to project in front. The
idea, of course, was that if she jumped the
bolt would catch in the wires. That evening
she was found in a fresh paddock with the
yoke broken, but she has never jumped since,
although that was months ago. The bolt
catching in the wires caused her t< turn a
somersault, and as her neck was not broken
she no doubt said, as the prisoner confided to
the hangman when the rope broke, “This
is a damn dangerous game.” For a cow that
crawls through or under wires a bolt in
the top would be a preventive.


Quality Cheated the de/na/tid
Quality maintains the Sale
Army Club
lO for 9d. CIGARETTES 20 for 1/6
In pure ribbed watermarked rice paper .
CAVANDEHS Ltd., London (Est. 1775)« Pioneers of Hygienic Oignrette Pncking,
»w
•law •-
$
m
CORK-TIPPED
or PLAIN
SMOKE-OH!
Discretion is something that comes to a
man when lie is too old to benefit by it.
'!• 'l'
A prude is a young woman who knows
too much.
Every man has his price, but few are
worth it.
* *
“D.8.0’C.”: Discipline is tightening up
on the Queensland railways. I heard the fol-
lowing remark from an engine-driver last
week: “Why, they’re even going crook on
us for pulling up and doing a bit of shooting
along the line!”
They have found out now that Eve had
been to a business college before she took
on the job in the Garden of Eden. Other-
wise, how would she have known about the
loose-leaf system?
* *
“Her Neighbor”: The fisherman was hav-
ing a rough time with the suspicious house-
wife, who sniffed at his assertion that they
were “fresh caught this mornin’.” “They
don’t smell fresh,” she said acidly. A bright
idea struck the hawker. “That’s not the
fish, Mum,” he said humbly; “it’s me.”
* *
“Percy Pawnticket” : The most loyal man
I saw at Sydney’s welcome was a neighbor
who threw his hat up towards the sky,
jumped several times in the same direction,
and howled incoherent cheers as the ducal
couple passed. Then he seemed to notice
something wrong. “Where’s yer ’at?” he
demanded sharply, turning on me. I men-
tioned that I was one of the no-hat brigade.
“Cripes, a man oughter stoush yous blokes,”
he said hostilely. “If yer blanky loyal y’
oughter wear an ’at so’s you can take it off
an’ wave it!”
* *
“Hamer” : We eyed him with dark suspi-
cion as he started pulling the luggage from
the rack in our compartment and depositing
it on the seat; then with a tremendous effort
lie lugged himself upwards and scrambled
into the rack, pulling over the rug he had
trailed after him. “By cripes,” he remarked
generally, “the bunks in the Northern River
boat I come down by are narrer, but they
ain’t nothin’ to these.”
❖ *
A few years back in Gippsland Little and
Biggar were a leading firm of stock and
station agents.
»*»
DEAR WOMAN!
Jones is a man with cares beset;
Bills dominate his life;
Even the fact that lie’s in debt
He owes to his dear wife.
N.S.W. P. p.
He is a lucky soldier-settler who can be
contented with liis lot.
* *
The oldest of monopolies is the marriage-
ring.
A married man carries his marriage lines
on his forehead.
A romantic writer declares that men fre-
quently have their desire to marry awakened
by a woman who ignores them. Love at first
slight.
* *
Freetraders would like to “rock” the
cradle of Australian industry.
* *
Shopkeepers like to remove the scales from
the eyes of their customers.
* *
If there’s a future life, a lot of the Fat
will be in the fire.
* *
“Yus,” said old Bill, “one time I had a
narrer squeak—got jambed against a tree
with the bullick-waggon and bruk me flamin’
leg. I’d lia’ been there fer a month without
anyone finding me, bein’ off the track, only
fer getting a handsaw out of the front of
the waggon and crawlin’ over one of the
polers and sawin’ his horn off. I sat on
his back and blew that flamin’ horn all day,
and at nightfall help came. If I had ha’
had horses, where’d I liev been?”
“T.V.T.”: Two hefty young fellows, as
stalwart and healthy as the young eucalypts
that grow in the bush they came from, seated
themselves opposite me at the restaurant
table. Judging from their comments they
“I suppose your hippopotamus is a male.”
“ No, sir; it belongs to the fair sex.”
found the beef rather tough. “Struth! This
bit o’ bullick is like er flamin’ lump o’
leather!” exclaimed one. “No wonder,” said
the other, “w’en it’s orf a blanky old
,worker.” Wonderingly, I inquired how he
came to know that the ox in life had been
a worker. The young busliman eyed me to
make sure I wasn’t a gold-brick expert;
■then he told me. “Struth, mate, yer only
got ter look at me plate to tell that. Can’t
yer see th’ blanky whip-marks on the
gravy?”
* *
According to the report
One of the women fell to the ground, and the
other, bending over her, deliberately struck her
nose with her clenched fist.
She stoops to conk her.
* *
“Up Top” : This epic I found carved on
a huge baobab-tree in the Territory:—
Damn this land of sins and Satan,
Damper rations / and stinking bacon,
Gins and bucks and chows and dagoes
Salt beef, twist, and curried sagoes!
Give me Queensland’s spicy breezes,
With its bacon and its cheeses;
With its girls all white and natty
And its men folk not all batty.
* *
“Ess”: “Talkin’ of whiskers,” said Bill,
“reminds me of an old farmer by the name o’
Dad Ragweed, who had the thickest tangle
of chin-scrub I’ve seen. He encouraged it to
go wild -in the buslirangin’ days, an’ was
so proud of the fame it brought him that he
hardly ever put a rake through it afterwards.
He was makiu’ out from Forbes one day
with a lump o’ money on him, when he heard
that Ben Hall an’ his gang were on the
road. That set Ragweed strokin’ his beard
an’ meditatin’ in a blue funk; an’ then he got
a brain-wave. The bushrangers, who knew
about the money from their agents, stuck
him up about an hour afterwards. They
overhauled him an’ his saddle; they made him
take off his boots, coat and vest; but all
they got was three coppers from his trousers
pocket. They thought they’d been hoaxed;
but when Ragweed got home he thrust his
fingers into the underside of liis beard an’
drew out the purse. He’d made a little hiding-
place in the hairy entanglements, and after
wards, whenever he was out in wet weather,
he put his matches there to keep ’em dry.
Qne day, while potterin’ about the premises,
he picked up a bantam’s egg an’ put it there
—then forgot it. About a fortnight later he
was dinin’ at the pub in town, an’ half-way
through the meal the company was astonished
to hear him start squeakin’ like a young-
canary. Ragweed looked innocent and puzzled
at first, but suddenly an awful look of under-
standing came into his face.”
Half the world doesn’t know how the
other half lives; but the builders of run-’em-
up fiats and apartment houses are doing
their best to dispel the ignorance.
* *
An utterly impeccable chorus-siren has a
way of seeming to challenge the baldheads.
A chum of hers says: “She has had more
champagne suppers wasted on her than any
other girl in the profession.”
Marriage soon finds many a man out.
A Californian paper announces that a
marriage has been arranged to take place
between a picture-actor (named) and a
lady “immediately after the gentleman’s
divorce.” Shows you the popularity of
advance-booking in the U.S.A.
Old Mother Hubbard
Went to the cupboard
To get her poor Fido a bone.
“No good to me,”
Said the d-o-r-g,
“I can eat a rump-steak on my own.”
❖ *
The difference between Prime Minister
Bruce and N.S.W.’s picturesque old Premier
John Robertson is that one wears spats and
the other spat swears.
* *
Suburban scandal is frequently over the
fence.
H* *
The Bishop of London says that life would
not be worth while to many people unless
they had their hopes of Heaven. So even
our hopes are on the higher system.
A milkman charged with adulteration
denied the accusation, suggesting that the
heavy rain might have caused the watery
quality of the milk. Well, on the day we
want to go for a picnic, rain’s a cow, any-
way.
Rich women seem to be fond of the Poms,
and vanities of this world.
Man always owes his worst tumble to
some slip of a girl.
Give her time, and a woman with a Will
to conquer will do it.
“Harold Hardupp” : They were wetting the
baby’s head —somewhat in advance —at
Murphy s pub, and Muggins, anxious to m
back home in case of sudden happening
was forced to listen to older parents wti ’
talked of dire happenings in childbirth But
his spirits were not damped. “Oh ’ vom
blokes only had some old Sairy Gamp ter
•see it through,” he said, proudly “Uv
wife’s all right; she’s got a trained opti-
mistic nurse.”
GIRLS.
.Mamie thinks she’s winsome,
Walking down the street,
Vith her pretty, peevish features
And her dancing little feet.
And lots of boys look sideways
As Mamie passes by,
And nudge each other’s elbows
And try to catch her eye.
But what they say about her
When Mamie isn’t near
Are not the kind of compliments
That mother’d like to hear!
Susie thinks she’s soulful,
And keeps her lashes down ;
But nothing much escapes her
When walking through the town.
The boys look in the windows
To titivate their ties,
And touch their hats to Susie—
Who looks demure and wise.
But what they think of Susie
When dancing at the ball,
They never tell a single word
To anyone at all!
And Mary, going homeward,
Is neither bold nor shy;
Her honest eyes are smiling
At all the passers-by.
Her dainty face is freckled.
Her shining locks are curled ;
But Mary’s heart is troubled
By nothing in the world !
And when the boys meet Mary
Their fancies wander free.
And something setsLthem thinking,. „
Now, that’s the girl for -ire!"
S.A.
C. H. SOUTER.
KING OR COCKY?
Go, Duke, with your Duchess,
Be done with de luxe,
And me.et people such as
You read of in books;
Meet swagman and shearer
And rouseabout-kand,
And thus approach nearer
The heart c»f our land.
See lonely and white fall
The moon on dead logs,
And listen at nightfall
To mopoke and frogs.
See fires of men camping
In pine clump and brush,
And hear the wild tramping
Of steers in a rush.
Awake from your sleep by
The jackass’s chime;
See drovers count sheep by
Ten thousand a time.
Come, tramp with the tramper,
And learn how to bake
A down-the-road damper,
An emu-egg cake.
Go out and play cricket
In leggings and spurs;
There are stones on the wicket
But no one demurs.
Play polo on ponies
You blind with a hat—
The chance of a throne is
Less thrilling than that!
SCOTLAND.
W. H. OGILVIE.
THE GENTLE BARRACKER.
“Hi, Butch!”
“Whatsamatter, Dick? Hunting for camels
or mushrooms?”
The plump butcher wriggled round on his
stretcher, and, brushing away a small cloud
of flies, sleepily focussed on the long, lean,
grizzled stockman lounging in the doorway.
Slipping his horse’s rein on to his fore-
arm, and drawing a long and noisy breath.
Dick prepared to enjoy himself. “Sleeping
in the daytime?” he began, fixing the bul-
cher with a steely-blue eye and spitting out
each word separately, like a string of pistol
shots, each of which seemed to set the hairs
bristling as it slammed out through his ragged
ginger moustache. “Halways sleeping!
Heither playing that there liorgan | the
gramophone] or dreaming erbout them tarts."
He spat contemptuously, and waited eagerly
for a bite.
Dick was not disappointed. The butcher
snapped like a deepsea mullet. “You forget
I’m up every morning at three cutting up
this blarsted tough beef of yours,” he
grumbled. “I’d like to know how long you'd
last at my job, you ignorant old centenarian
centipede!”
“Don’t you call me higerant!” howled Dick
with skilfully-concealed delight, and baring
his three yellow fangs like a cornered dingo.
“Not a centurion centipede heither. Ili’m
not suffering from phenile decay! Hi can
domesticate my tucker better’n many of you
boys that has still got a mouthful of teeth.
Higerant! Why, Sambo here’s a damsite
more knowin’ than any of you ’uman pups
nowadays!”
“Call that a dog!” snorted the butcher. “I
had a dog worth twenty of that thing.
Dinkum. I had a dog down at Menzies that
knew his Bible from A to Z. Talk about
yarding hides [cattle] and monkeys [sheep].
My oath, old Sudah could put ’em in. Why.
I’ve seen him put a chicken into a jam-tin."
“That’s quite freezable,” Dick reluctantly
admitted, scratching his grizzly, close-
cropped, bullet poll with a hairy fist. This
was a palpable score to the butcher, but it
was a point of honor with the old stockman,
never to abandon the field to any opponent
until he had got him “com-pletely flabi-
gasted.” So now his fierce blue eyes nar-
rowed to needle-points, the thick gingery
brows that gabled them lowered and thatched
together, and you could almost hear tin
wheels creaking round inside the leathery,
corrugated forehead.
“Yairs,” Dick spat out reflectively, “and
don’t you forget Hi had two good dawgs
once.” A pause to allow the already germina-
ting idea to mature. Then on once more
with deadly, unhurried precision. “Two good
dawgs. In fact, Hi might even venture to
call one of them a very good dawg. Old
Dimple could put two flies into a pickle
bottle.”
The butcher, resigned to the inevitable
defeat, capitulated with a grin. “I’ll buy u
What about the other dog?”
Grave as the Sphinx, Dick replied in a
deprecating growl, “Oh, he wasn’t much good
com-pare-atively speaking. He just used
to put the cork in.”
PETER HOPEGOOD.


£
Scotland
Admits it
v\JJk
■r i
H*
#-
«s-«
x^V/
SsV
~<*R
(C
mr?
XU
X'S
Kre
X
>“■
* V’i ii MJ i lr' 1 M /V/!lr,U)! t
h
A
;-0
s**
'A
\L
Cu&lraua. cax> ,
make Good. Whisky, —
A Tribute, to Australian Quality
After maintaining that good Whisky could not
be made in Australia, the Scotch Companies, by
their proposal to produce whisky here, have ad-
mitted that they were wrong. When dust can no
longer be thrown in Australian eyes, the throwers
resort to other tactics. What has caused the
change of face? The answer is obvious the
amazing popularity deservedly gained by Old
Court Whisky, the Pure Australian Spirit.
A Challenge Still Unanswered
Some months ago a challenge was issued offering
to donate £l,OOO to charity if it could be proved
that Old Court Whisky was not superior to
Scotch or any other imported brand. That chal-
lenge was not taken up by any of those who for
years have misled many unthinking Australians
into the false belief that the imported article was
better than this purest Australian Spirit.
A Killing Blou) at Prejudice
Prejudice dies hard, but once the average Aus-
tralian investigates, he quickly picks out the best
and insists on getting it. That is the simple ex-
planation for the rise of Old Court Whisky, and
the decline of the imported. In Whisky, as in all
things, merit tells.
Superiority Wins the Day
Safe in the knowledge that Old Court Whisky
is the best produced, we challenge competition
from wherever it may come. Old Court Whisky
has entered what were considered impregnable
fortifications, and by reason of its own true worth,
has compelled the opposition to strike its colors.
To taste this pure Australian spirit is to be won
to it.
The Writing on the Wall
In the past year or two Old Court has
made wonderful strides, and it is only a matter
of time when all imported brands will be swept
off the Australian market. Hence the Scotch
distillers have decided to distil whisky in Aus-
tralia.
Why Old Court is Supreme
Because it is the purest whisky, is health-giving,
health-sustaining, and because it exceeds the Com-
monwealth standard, which is the highest in the
world. Old Court is Australian and therefore
is the BEST.
7/6 per Bottle 7cL per Nobbier
♦
£jhc Vorlcfc Pures'b
SO
iCOy
"I'r
>3
- - J.
lERAL OiSTIILE


N
mm
> '*■;
mm.
7
sP
A
I
§
*
CT
I&sJ
a
i
■
m
V
fca
Crv v
j.
s
£
assr
ar
y
r"
Conservative Ratings
Graham Brothers Trucks and
Commercial Cars are in general
use all over the world—wherever
there is commercial transportation
of passengers or goods.
They have met all conditions of
road, load and weather—and have
won respect by their performance.
Their capacity ratings i-T on,
1 -Ton, 1 i-T on and 2-T on are
so conservative that their depend-
ability, at all times, is a by-word
the world around.
No other truck equals Graham
Brothers in the percentage of
high grade alloy steel used. The
strength is there, in all capacities.
And so is the power.
Qraham Brothers Trucks and Commercial Cars
meet 91 °/ 0 of all hauling requirements .
|-Ton Chassis - -- -- -- -- £260
1- Chassis £325
TJ-Ton Chassis £445
2- Chassis £485
Way mouth Motor Co., Ltd.
42-48 Waymouth Street,
Adelaide.
Austral Motors, Ltd.,
Brisbane and Townsville.
Canada Cycle & Motor Co. (Victoria) Pty., Ltd.
352-58 Latrbbe Street,
Melbourne.
The Standardised Motors, Ltd.,
256 Castlereagh Street,
Sydney.
Winterbottom Motor Co., Ltd.,
199 St. George’s Terrace,
Graham Brothers
Trucks
BUILT BY TRUCK DIVISION OF DODGE BROTHERS, INC.
SOLD BY DODGE BROTHERS
DEALERS EVERYWHERE
31/'3/’27.


“THE WOMAN S MIRROR”
Contains everything that women should know, from kitchen to
drawing-room, from the cradle to old age.
FREE PATTERN EVERY WEEK.
It is the most remarkable Threepennyworth ever printed.
“THE WOMAN’S MIRROR.”
PUBLISHED EVERY TUESDAY,
Price 3d.
The Federal Mutual
C ]fig'vTUD^
Insurance Company of Australia, Limited.
FIRE, MARINE AND ACCIDENT.
Licensed to accept liability under Workmen’s Compensation Act 1026.
AGENTS WANTED .
Head Office: 129 I’itt Street, Sydney.
R. UAWNSLEY MOSS, Managing Director.
Victorian Branch: 360-66 Collins Street, Melbourne.
H. L. CARROLL, Manager.
Queensland Branch: Federal Mutual Chambers, Queen Street, Brisbane.
NORMAN M. MAIR, Manager.
South Australian Branch: 36 Grenfell Street, Adelaide.
E. M. MINOGUE, Manager.
SUPPORT THIS PURELY AUSTRALIAN COMPANY.
R. A. MANZIE, General Manager.
Their Answer.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
ONE morning when the sun rode high,
With golden light endowing
Green field and brown,
I, fresh from town,
Came on a ploughman ploughing.
To him I said, “Why work to-day
While down the sun is flinging
His lavish light
On plain and height,
And all the birds are singing?”
"I work,” said he in accents grim,
His sturdy shoulders bowing,
“Through rain and heat
That you may eat’’— ■.
And he went on a-ploughing.
Once more, months gone, at harvest time,
When wind-made waves wire sweeping
Through fields of gold,
As forth I strolled,
I saw a reaper reaping.
To him I said, “Why work to-day
When sunny is the weather,
And birds a-tlirong
With lifted song
Rejoice, rejoice together?”
“I work.” said he in accents grim,
His scythe a wide swathe sweeping,
“Through dust and heat
That you may eat” —
And he went on a-reaping.
Now, when the mills had done their work,
My way one morning taking
Through street and street
With lightsome feet,
I saw a baker baking.
To him I said, “Why work to-day
While golden light is falling
On harbor-reach
And shining beach,
And wind and wave are calling?”
“I work,” said he in accents grim,
Red oven-embers raking.
“Through smoke and heat
That you may eat”—
And he went on a-baking.
N.s.w.
RODERIC QUINN.
Seductive Little Devil.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
YOU must have noticed her? .
She was there to be noticed, any-
how. She was the final product of
flapperdom, and her name was Edna, though
her boy friends usually called her Kid for
short.
Why shouldn’t the men —young, middle-
aged (but not always as medium as you
thought) and the ancient (you can’t always
trust white hairs) —why shouldn’t mankind
in general straighten up and stare at her
as she sidled past with her well-known slinky
slink? In her heart—or what, for conveni-
ence sake, we will call her heart—Edna
knew that she was, as an ensemble, well
worth a glance. However, she always
expected two glances, one prow on, so to
speak, and the other astern. It was one
of Edna’s few unsatisfied longings that she
could never know those backward glances
that followed her adown the street. She
knew she was all right from the back. And
her callow instinct told her that for so slim
a figure she left a most agitated wake.
In the beginning of this earth there were
created male and female, which was lucky
for Edna and her type. Otherwise there
would have been nothing doing for Edna.
In those days, immeasurably earlier than the
post-crinoline era, the earth was the habitat
of dank and sloppy vegetation, slimy seas,
and vast and ungainly animals; a curious
stage for such a being as Edna to make her
debut upon—millions of years later. Yet,
from the unpromising beginnings of ape-man
and ape-cub, Evolution got to work, patiently
and with many set-backs, to produce Edna.
The time, of course,.was not yet ripe, but
Time kept going on and going on ; and all
the while, through those countless aeons of
the past. Evolution labored to evolve and
perfect this Edna of ours. In those dark
ages Edna, an uncouth . and snarling cub,
never glimpsed her secretly-prepared and
glorious future.
The cicada that lives for three years in
the earth, sucking its nutriment from the
roots of a tree, never imagines its emergence
from the dark into the glorious sunlight,
never guesses that some day it will possess
wings and enjoy the rapture of its shrill
music in the dusk of the summer day. So
it was with Edna. She existed in the pupa
stage for millions of years before the stage
was set for her triumphal d€but. When
one considers how complicated an Edna is,
it is obvious that Nature has not wasted her
time and toil.
From the first revolution of the first im-
mature atom and the creation of matter, up
into worlds and suns and universes, Edna
was designed. The exact time for her pro-
duction was fixed. Had she emerged in all
her complexities in the ice age, she would
have promptly perished of cold. It was
inevitable that the Edna of the glacial period
would have insisted on wearing a skirt to
her knee, a deep and delectable “V,” and
arms bare to the armpits, and immediately
would have perished in the glacial blizzards.
No, the eartli had to be comfortably
warmed before she could emerge and sur-
vive. Had she precociously presented her-
self in the Early Victorian era, her main-
stays, her nubbly legs, would have never
been revealed, and Edna Angelina would have
died of shame.- Even in the great bustle age
her natural contours would have remained
hidden and her ankles would have been unex-
plored territory.
No; it needed genial warmth and tin;
Georgian era before this quaint cicada broke
forth upon a grateful earth.
When the time came for her to be christ-
ened, what other name than Edna could be
given her? It suggested youth and innocence
and simplicity—and Edna was all those.
To take her least obvious qualities first,
it must be admitted that Edna is not con-
spicuous for her brain-power. Her ideas are
few and simple—dress, boys, chocolates,
sheik-novels, jazzes, picnics, silk stockings,
picture-shows, powder, shingles, flirtations and
cocktails. On all these subjects she was
amazingly bright and fully informed. And
she was endowed by her out-of-date mother
Avith a lot of “common.” And though she
would feel insulted if you fold her she was
normally moral, she was at heart a decent
citizen and knew what Avas over the odds.
As for brains, she did not really need them—
she had so many substitutes that brains did
not matter. Instead of brains, she had the
female heritage of cunning.
That’s Edna.
There Avas a time, to which Edna looked
back with a deep contempt, the days of her
callow childhood, when she was merely one
of the family, just a kid. How unsuspecting
Avas her outlook upon the world! To her
then boys Avere horrible things avlio pulled
her decorous plait of hair, and allowed her
on sufferance to join in their games, and
regarded her as a nuisance. She often Avon-
dered Avliy boys were alloived in the world —
she learnt later. Men. of course, were
different. They liked to play Avitli her in a
paternal way; and Edna did not mind at
all. Even in that immature age she felt
that men liked her.
Then, suddenly, she became aware of boys.
She found them hanging around; she found
them interested in her. SJie felt a new poAver
over those rough school-friends of her brothers ;
she inwardly felt that she could manage
them. Instead of being regarded as a nuis-
ance she discovered that she Avas secretly
admired. She felt the beginnings of her
power over the poor things. She thrilled
secretly when they became sheepish. She
noticed, with this keen little, brain of hers,
evolved for its special purpose, that they
approached her in a mixed mood of liking
and fear. She tasted the beginnings of her
power over the slow, awkward, blushing
beings. She instinctively noticed that they
were humble to her, that they were attracted
to her, that they were afraid of her. She
kneAV herself a queen over a croAvd of helots.
She noticed, too, lioav they loved to show
off before her, lioav they hung about her and
how they bragged about themselves to her,
lii later years, when she was quite old,
seventeen, she found that this breed of beings
retained their boyish attributes ; and in the
pictures she saAV this masculine trait raised
to its nth power —and gloried in it.
When these friends of her brothers began
to cluster around, Edna became a despotic
queen. If Bill, Avho used to tAvist her arm,
appeared before Her Majesty Edna with his
hair painfully smooth, she Avould scornfully
remark. “SAvauk!”
And Bill would blush and remove himself
in shame from her regal presence. Yes, it
Avas as easy for Edna as that. She could put
Bill in his place all right! And Avhcn Bill
appeared with a iicav pair of boots and felt
all through his being the newness of those
boots, Edna knew. Her scorn scorched him
and he slunk away in misery.
That was, hoAvevef, only the beginning of
her amazing power over these big. hulking
brutes. Her liking for them —and secretly
she thrilled over their strength and their
roughness—she never allowed them to know.
She felt that she, weaker as she knew she
Avas, had a magic strength that nullified
their poAver. She could boss them ;thout as
she liked, and they actually liked being
bossed! The world Avas made for her, and
she was going to use it.
Of course, it Avas hard for Edna to have
an elder sister. Edna Avearily wondered Avliy
she should have an elder sister, who bossed
her about horribly, and had the good time
that Edna felt she should have herself. Mar-
jorie was a trial. She was three years older
than Edna, and the way she snubbed her
little sister and treated her as a child was
most annoying. Marjorie could go to the
pictures any night she wanted to; Edna had
to stay at home and help in the housework.
Marjorie went to dances and wore daring
frocks; and there was a rumor that Mar-
jorie had a “boy.” What would Edna give
to have a boy! It is a hard, hard world
where there is an elder sister in it.
Edna worked in a city office; though per-
haps it could hardly be called work. She
hammered on a typewriting machine, like
thousands of her flapper sisters. She did
not aspire to be a business woman; she knew
an easier way to earn her living than that.
Some day she would get married, though life
was too pleasant for her to worry about
that dim and distant future. Hammering a
typewriter didn't get her anywhere, but she
didn’t want to get anywhere except the
bridal veil, the confetti and the diminutive
flat. And you hadn’t to laboriously acquire
any efficiency in acquiring a husband. Not
that she wanted a husband for many, many
years. Life was too gloriously exciting for
that.
Edna, of course, had a chum. Her name
was Dorothy. Having a chum makes things
so much easier. Two girls can smile at two
boys on the Manly boat. It doesn’t look so
.pointed, it doesn’t mean so much, as one
lone girl hinting a smile at a solitary boy.
Two's dangerous; four’s company. A lone
girl takes a risk.
It must not be imagined that Edna went
around looking to pick up a boy; but in
flapper society there is an easier etiquette
than is usual between adults. And Edna
and Dorothy knew their way about. Any
excuse suffices to introduce a flapper and
a youth. There is a well-understood camara-
derie at that age. Tin', boy is not seeking to
lure the flapper away to haunts of iniquity—
for one thing, he doesn’t know of any, and
Avould not know how to behave if he did.
There is a healthy innocence about tlieir
rencontres. They may kiss, but a kiss
doesn’t mean anything, though it is rather
comforting. It means that he likes you.
Their kisses are not film kisses. They are
usually blurred. There is no click in them.
Of course, Dorothy AA r as dark. She had
to be if she was a clium of Edna’s. Edna,
you know, is fair, and taller than Dorothy.
There must be these differences so that a boy
can choose which one he likes. He doesn’t
want to mix them up when he has to meet
them again. Youth’s memory is short.
Every lunch-hour Dorothy meets Edna at
the door of the office where Edna puts up
a brave pretence of Avork. In the early
stages of their acquaintance the two used to
stroll down King-street hand in hand, like
children; but as they grew up into the
flapper stage, they dropped that —too silly,
like a couple of kids.
They have lots and lots to say to each
other, though their interest in their conversa-
tion —and it is thrillingly absorbing—do *s
not render them blind to the passers-by in
the street. They take in, with.feminine alert-
ness, the apnearance and attire of every
youthful male who passes them. Yet, despite
their bird-like scrutiny, they are blind to
two-thirds of the strollers. They never see
mature women, aivl they never notice grown
men.
To Edna and Dorothy any man in the
thirties is invisible to those quick, acquisitive
glances. They look right through you. You
do not exist. You do not belong to their
world at all. Though, if you noticed Edna
and Dorothy in the street, and you couldn’t
really help it, you might, for a fleeting
moment, Avish that they might notice you.
Vain hope! To them you are incredibly old.
“Oh. Dorothy darling, what do you think?”
Edna whispered.
“00-er!” murmured Dorothy.
“Listen! You knoAV that clerk in our
office? I pointed him out to you in the
street.”
“The one with the slim waist, who’s
always so polite in the office, Edna?”
“Yes, him. Well. I told you he was always
hanging round; leaning over my typeAvriter,
though, of course, there Avas nothing in that —
there arc three of us in the same room. The
other girls in the room were horribly jeal-
ous. Jealous of that! Pouf! And I found
out I hat he smoked those oval-shaped cigar-
ettes. He called me in once, and took one
of them out when I avus there. Oh no,
dear, nothing happened. You see, his office
is in one of those glassy cubby-house sort
of things.” ,
“Rotten, aren’t they?” sighed Dorothy.
“We’ve got them in our office.”
“And Avhen I was Avaiting for the lift
in the morning,” said Edna, reluctantly turn-
ing UAvay from the regal Avax-figure in the
gorgeous gown in the shop AvindoAV, and
vividly imagining herself in it. “he always
lifted his hat to me —not just pretending to,
like, the other boys do.”
“I knoAV,” said the sagacious Dorothy.
“And I know lie liked my legs—watched
me going up in the lift one day through the
screen. I can’t help it, can 1. if I’ve got
good calves?. Ooh, wouldn’t it be awful for
us girls if tliey went back to long dresses!”
Both girls shuddered.
“And when I came into the office last
week with my new katsanjammer pull-over
sweater I could see him blink. They do show
your figure, don’t they?”
“Well, go on, dear! Did he”
“Oh,” said Edna, “I know all about men.
I don’t mind telling you I used to play up
to him a bit. And I rather liked him—
till yesterday. He thought I was all right.
It wasn’t what he said, it was what he
looked.” ,
“I know,” said Dorothy, from the depths
of her experience. “Men are so simple,
aren’t they?”
“Well, I had a busy day typing a few
silly letters for the boss; and then, just
when I was going to put mjf hat on, he
butted in with some more letters to be done
in a hurry. lie said to me, ‘You don’t mind
staying back a bit, I hope? These letters
are important; I’ll have to wait to sign
them. Let me have them, please, as soon
as you can.’ I hadn’t a suspicion, of course,
dear.”
“Oh no, of course not!” sniggered Dorothy.
“Anyhow,” said Edna, “I thought it would
be only a bit of smooging. I could see
that lie was looking for it. So I had a squiz
at myself in my vanity-box, and got to work
with'the lip-stick. Men like the taste of it,
don’t they ?”
“You don’t meanter say,” said Dorothy,
“that you were going to let him mug you?”
“Of course not, darling; but I always like
being prepared. So I rattled off those letters
and took them in to his office. There was
nobody else about. He looked at me, quite
excited. He didn’t trouble to read the letters
through. Just signed them anyhow. And
then—oh, look at that girl there! Well,
if she can get away with it, I can. I’ll
shorten another inch, but goodness knows
where they’re going to stop! Oh, where was
I? Oh, yes!
“ ‘Thank you,’ he. says to me, and I was
just turning round to go out —I’d left the
office-door wide open—when he jumped up
from his chair and grabbed me!”
“00-er!” said Dorothy.
“I was that surprised I couldn't do any-
thing!” And do you know what he called
me? ‘You little devil! You seductive little
devil!’”
“Oo! How perfectly thrilling!” sighed
Dorothy.
“‘Seductive little devil!’” murmured
Edna. “Spice, wasn’t it?”
“Oh, do go on, dear!”
Simultaneously both girls caught sight of
a new mirror. The city is really one long
hall of mirrors. No matter how artistic is
a flapper's make-up when she lehves the office,
there lurks in her mind the possibility of im-
provements. She is always wondering
whether that flush of youth has really stayed
put, or whether a little more lip-stick at
the corners of her mouth might not possibly
help.
Both girls stopped and scrutinised. All
minor preoccupations left them. Serious busi-
ness was at hand.
“ ‘Seductive Little Devil,’ ” murmured Edna,
in capital letters. “When he said that it
made me go all floppy. I never thought
he was so strong!”
“1 know,” sighed Dorothy reminiscently.
“Like a jelly, all wobbly.”
“And then the brute mugged me!”
“00-wer!”
“Sloppy sort,” said Edna.
“Why didn’t you slap his face?”
“I wasn’t going to waste it, dear. It
isn’t often I get one like. that. I shut my
eyes-—he’s quite ugly, you know. I pre-
tended it was Cyril, though Cyril can’t kiss
anything like that. And then I kicked his
shin, good and hard. I bet. he’s got a bruise
there now.
“ Won cowardly brute,’ I said; and he did
look a silly fool, rubbing his shin. ‘How
dare you touch me! I’ve a good mind to tell
the boss, and then, where will you be?’ That
frightened him. He did look a fool. Dorothy.
Isn't it wonderful the power we have over
those men! I can’t understand any girl
getting dippy over any of them. And then
I drew myself up and swept from the room.”
“Yes, I know,” murmured Dorothy. “I’ve
set'll Pauline Frederick do it.”
“I got it from that,” said Edna. “And
that’s that, darling.”
“But this morning? What was he like?”
“I looked straight through him. I was
quite polite; but I shrivelled him up. The
brute. To try that sorter game on me! He
looked so miserable that I nearly burst out
laughing. And then I found out all about
him from one of the other girls.”
“I know,” said Dorothy sagely. “He’s
married?”
“Oh no, darling,” said Edna with a shud-
der. “Worse than that!”
“00-er!” gasped Dorothy.
“Would you believe it, darling, that man
was ticenty-scrcn!”
Dorothy gaped.
“Yes,” said Edna, “fancy an old brute
like that mugging me about!”
JAMES JAMES.


“Bulletin” Service Coupon
31131’27.
NAME AND ADDRESS
(for office use only)
Mr., Mrs. or Miss
('nt this out anil send with your “Want” to “Service Department,'’
Bi lletix office, Sydney or Melbourne.
}
>*
* *• « /
V s - '€ < - " }■
.
1 'TfrW
The
u
A. Sound Musical Investment—
WuRLIIZER
PLAYER
PIANO
Wurlitzer tone will retain its full resonant beauty throughout the years, and
Wurlitzer performance will continue to give absolute satisfaction when ordinary
player pianos are “showing signs of wear.”
“Wurlitzer” workmanship is just as good as one of the largest piano-buil'ding
organisations in the world can make it.
Inspect the Wurlitzer before you finally decide.
PRINCIPAL WURLITZER AGENTS:
NEW SOUTH WALES: Royal Player Piano Co., 21 Park Street, Sydney; M. Light & Sons, Ltd., Newcastle and
Cessnoclc; Jas. Loneragan Ltd., Gulgong; The Australian Stores, Yass.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA: The Australasian Implement and House Furnishing Co., Adelaide.
VICTORIA: Myers Emporium Ltd. Melbourne.
WEST AUSTRALIA: Musgroves Ltd., Murray Street, Perth.
QUEENSLAND: Young & Whatnall, Campbell’s Buildings, Creek Street, Brisbane.
Where any difficulty is experienced in procuring a “Wurlitger” communicate direct with the factory representatives:
Parker, Blau & Co., Ltd.,
8 O’CONNELL STREET, SYDNEY.
308 FLINDERS LANE, MELBOURNE.
Business, Robbery, etc.
“Alastor” : At Mt. Morgan (C.Q.) the other
day nine houses were sold by the bailiff for
arrears of rates amounting to £416. They
brought £44 —an average of under a fiver
apiece!
-X- * * *
“Coot”: The durability of Australian tim-
ber was again exemplified when one of Mel-
bourne's most venerable taverns, the Apollo
Inn. at the corner of Knssell-street and Flin-
ders-Jane, was demolished. The bluegum
umber used extensively throughout the build-
ing was found to be as in good condition
as when it was placed there.
* * * *
“.Jim Carew”: Has anyone ever seen a
Chinese bootmaker in Australia? I haven’t,
and I can claim to have visited practically
every town of any size in the Commonwealth.
Yet Chow “snobs” may frequently be encoun-
tered both in England and Yankeeland, and
in some parts of the latter they have man-
aged to secure a grip on the trade almost
amounting to a monopoly.
* * * *
“Similimus Ballenae” : Whales are having
an unhappy time in the Antarctic. From
Stewart Island, Maoriland, comes news that
a factory-ship, the Sir James Clark Ross,
with five chasers, has brought back 22,734
barrels of oil, the product of 245 whales. The
C. A. Larsen, with three chasers, still down
below, reports having secured 40,000 barrels
of oil; she is staying inside the ice until she
fills 50,000 barrels. The Neilsen Alonzo
reports having gathered 27,000 barrels, and is
waiting for more.
* * * *
“Maurice G.”: The popular fallacy that
weight imposes a heavier strain upon roads
than speed doubtless accounts for 157 Vic.
councils out of 198 being in favor of restrict-
ing loads to eight tons maximum. But a
heavy, slow-moving vehicle will do less
damage to a metalled road than a lighter
vehicle moving at twice the speed. The
wheels of a fast-moving motor-lorry strike
into all ruts with greater force, and as the
road deteriorates the injury becomes worse.
Motor-lorry traffic should be controlled, but
speed as well as weight should be taken into
consideration.
* ■» * *
“P.X.”: I read in a Sydney paper the
other day that the new Canberra postage-
stamps were being sent to outback offices “by
Ford and jinker, by camel and coach.” All
the stamps that go by camel these days
wouldn’t weigh many ounces. A few years
ago a good camel was worth £7O at Broken
Ilill, the centre of the West Darling dis-
trihuting trade. To-day it is worth less than
a hansom-cab in Sydney, and dozens of them
have been sold for less than 40s. apiece. The
motor-truck has thrown “the ship of the
desert” right out of commission.
* -X * *
“One Who Knows” : I would like to cor-
rect “W.P.D.” and “Jackerooster” (B.
3/2/’27) as to the Corricdale flocks. Tin;
progeny of the 1000 pure merino ewes and
selected Lincoln rams mated in 1874 by Mr.
Davidson, then manager of the Levels estate.
South Canterbury (M.L.), were not found
to be too small —that applied to the flocks
of subsequent experimenters who used Eng-
lish Loicesters instead of Lincoln rams. After
heavy culling the progeny were then inbred,
thus founding the oldest-established Corrie-
dale. flock in existence. The standard of
Corricdale wool adopted both in Maoriland
and in the Commonwealth is 50-5 Gs.
* * * *
“John Cow”: How completely Germany
is recapturing its pre-war Australian trade
is indicated by the item that the Nord-deut-
scher Lloyd is completing six new 12,000-
liners, the first of which will reach Sydney
iu August. German cargo ships have been
doing, nicely for some years, but passenger-
carrying has been at a minimum. On the
eve of the war the German passenger fleet
consisted of the Bremen (11.000 tons) and
five ships of 8000 tons. None of these was
captured by the Allies. The new fleet will
thus exceed the old by 21,000 tons, and will
be much more economical on fuel.
* * * *
“Rob P.” : During the last quarter of 192(5
40lb. lloz. of opium were seized at vari-
ous Commonwealth ports—nearly half in
Queensland. The amount represented 36
seizures, but there were only three terms of
imprisonment allotted of nine, six and three
months respectively. The remaining 38
seizures resulted in fines totalling £268 —
about £8 2s. sd. per conviction. The aver-
age fine for dope peddling, it will bo seen,
is only about a third of the lowest inflicted
for sly-grog selling. Is the pernicious traffic
in drugs likely to be stamped out by such
preposterously lenient penalties?
* * * *
“F.N.W.”: “Sierra” (B. 10/3/’27) em-
ploys a warped method of reckoning marine
progression when lie quotes the Ballarat's
passage to Sydney (55 days) as a modern
sample to be measured against the exceptional
trip of a windbag that made a G4-da,vs I’ly-
mouth-Melbourue voyage half a century ago.
The steamer mentioned is a P. and (). unit
or a class primarily designed to jog along at
an economical sea-speed of 134 knots and
she calls at four ports at least en route to
Sydney, otherwise her time might be bettered
by some 11 days. To single out a ship of
this type is about as logical as dragging in
a Sydney Uansom-eab to symbolise present-
day land transport. The I’. and O. possesses
ships capable of spinning out over 20 knots
if required, and would probably oblige still
further if the Governments and public
would support the higher tariff that would
be necessitated by the extra speed. Experi-
once shows that travellers prefer comfort
and luxury instead of increased pace, and it
is on those lines that shipping has devel-
oped. A fair standard of comparison may
be found in the fact that fast cargo-ships
proceeding direct to London can and do
make the passage in 33 to 35 days against
the crack clippers’ 80 days of 50 years ago.
"Momekeui” : Although the natives of New
Guinea never heard of patent laws or trade-
marks, they scrupulously respect the rights
of ownership of patterns and designs 1
bought a native jar from a lianuabada
woman, adorned with what appeared to me
the usual meaningless dots and dashes which
constitute a pattern amongst these primitive
potters. Wishing to have a pair for flower-
pots, I asked another woman to make me
its twin. She looked at me as if I had
asked her to pick a pocket. “No, Sinabada.”
she replied. “That’s Kari’s pot shape and
pattern. Look, there’s her mark.” She
pointed to some hieroglyphics indented in
one side of the pot. No other woman in the
village would infringe Kari’s design. Later
on I found this unwritten law extended to
basket patterns, every one of which had to
native eyes the mark of the maker upon it
in some little individual variation. It is
the same with canoe designs and facial
decorations.
* * * #
“Uramao” : John Bull is being invited to
take a fill for his pipe out of Maoriland's
tobacco-pouch. A reauest for State assist-
ance by those interested in the proposition
has resulted in the Government giving a
guarantee to finance a shipment of five tons
of leaf to London. An area of 80 acres in
Nelson has been under the supervision of
a departmental horticulturist for some time.
The reception of the tobacco and the price
it brings will determine whether M.L. can
cut into the 90 per cent, of foreign tobacco
that the Gold Country sends up in smoke
annually.
* * * *
“C.Q.”: Clapp claims to have gone one
better than the rest of the world again. His
latest is a luxurious sedan motor-car, C-
cylinder, strong, fast and silent. Instead of
stirring up the dust of the roads, it runs on
rails, and anybody can hire it to travel any-
where in Vic. where the railways penetrate,
at a rate of Is. Gd. a mile, or £5 a day. It
is said to be the only bird of its feather in the
world, and its sponsor has high hopes of it.
Still, unless the tegular services are required
to stand aside for the private party intliesedan
—which is unthinkable —the private party
will have to spend drab hours or minutes on
country sidings, a prospect that will hardly
enhance its popularity.
One of the results of Protection prophe-
sied by the foreign traders was that Capital
would leave the country. But in Australia,
as in every other country, it is having the
opposite effect. As soon as it becomes no
longer absolutely necessary for the mountain
to go to Mahomet, Mahomet goes to the
mountain. Last year saw Bapson Tyres,
Hanks Embroidery, Dunlop-North British
Sand Shoes, Henry Ford, General Motors
and George. Bond’s cotton established in the
Commonwealth. This year already Good-
year Tyres and Austral Silk and Cotton (the
capital of which is two-thirds English) have
made themselves Australian homes. Peek
Frean, and Co., the English biscuit people,
are thinking about a factory in Launceston,
and English brewers, condiment-makers, cot-
ton-manufacturers and makers of artificial
silk are going seriously into the question
of establishing Australian manufacturing
branches. And the capital thus bi'ought in
doesn’t have to go back.
* -X- * *
“Two Seas” : The conditions for drovers
have vastly improved since “Clancy of the
Overflow” rode singing behind his charges
for a pound a week and tucker; but the job
is still far from being as cushy as “Saaedi"
iB. 24/2/’26) represents. The six-mile stage
per day is the minimum enforced by the
Droving Act, but the average stage, especi-
al ly on short trips, is double that distance.
Of course, if the owner is shearing and wants
to have a clean board for the sheep on the
road, he may give his drover instructions to
loaf on reserves or tracks where the grass is
good, and if the sheep are travelling for
grass or for sale time is not the essence of
the contract; but, as a rule, the jumbucks
have to be hustled along much more than the
minimum distance. And how many owners
would pay Clancy £2 per day for barking at
a little mob of 500? That wage may be
“coming to be regarded as a minimum,” but
it isn’t in sight yet.
* X - * *
“Borom” : There is no place like Sydney's
waterfront for being offered bargains. A
friend of mine, whose place of business is
within a stone’s-throw of the principal
wharves, kept a note of his callers on a
recent day. The first pressed on him crepe-
de-Chine blouses for 3s. 6d. each, subsequently
lowering the figure to half-a-crown. Next
came a shifty-eyed longshoreman seeking to
dispose of imported boots for 2s. a pair. He
was succeeded by a visitor who produced a
roll of silk from under his coat and offered
to take £1 for it. My friend went out for
lunch at this stage ; on his return he found
an accommodating individual waiting for
him with a job-lot of musical-instru-
ments, some silver-mounted, for which he was
willing to take less than either freight or
duty Would have amounted to. Next there
arrived a slightly sozzled person trying to sell
some cut-glass bottles of expensive perfumes
for the price of a couple of drinks. Finally
two gentlemen who spoke in whispers behind
their horny hands inquired if my friend
wished to buy a gas-stove, brand-new and
worth about £l7. for 80s., delivery to be made
as soon as it was dark enough. One of these
mornings he expects to be offered a grand
piano for 7s. Gd.
Our Service Department
1 his page has been set aside for the use of Bulletin readers. If you
want anything you are invited to write and tell us about it.
If you are seeking a job in the country, write to The Bulletin
Service Department, and we will see if there is anybody who wants you.
If you are looking for a farm, or an orchard, or a sheep-station, tell
us your requirements, and we will try to find out if there is anybody
wanting to sell one.
If your car or your horse or your cow goes wrong and you can’t put
it right, write to this Page about it.
Ii you have had an argument about the date when Ned Kelly was
making history, we will settle it for you.
If you want to discover what other people’s experience has been in
growing linseed or red cabbages, or anything else, we will invite them to
help you.
If you want to get in touch with an old mate; if you want to swap
something; if you want to find an opening for your boy or your girl; if
you want.—well, no matter what you want, The Bulletin Service Depart-
ment has been created to help you get it.
There are thousands of things not known to anybody in The Bulletin
office, but there are Bulletin readers who are experts in most things, and
it won’t cost, you anything to ask.
If any Bulletin reader has struck an idea which he is glad to think
might benefit, other readers, there is a place waiting here for him to
pass it. on.
Thousands of young men and women on the land are continually
meeting difficulties. Old hands have, in most cases, met them before and
overcome them, and will, we believe, be glad to pass on their knowledge.
This is the meeting-place for them.
If you write for information about anything at all, and that informa-
tion, if we can procure it, seems to be of general value, it will be printed.
In other cases the replies will be sent by post.
No charge whatever will be made for the service. All you have to
do is to cut out the coupon from the last Bulletin to hand (the coupon
will be.printed week by week in this page), and attach it to your “Want.”
Of course, people who oblige with replies need not send coupons.
The right to exclude objectionable inquiries is reserved.
Now, fire away! “Wants” will be printed first on April 14, and
weekly thereafter.


Vincent
7
"s'
Lopez
(188
K
r
"My toes just can’t keep still
when Lopez plays * fox-trot
£
*
r n
M
\'
The Giant of Jazz /
WHEN Jazz first burst on an astonished world it was crude, rough,
disordered. Its producers did not understand it ; nor did the
players, nor did the public.
But a decade of development has made Jazz "something else again.’’ It fills its own
appointed place in the musical scheme of things Now, there are many fine exponents
of Jazz, on the piano. And the greatest of them all is Lopez.
When this harlequin of the keyboard plays for the Ampico, his performance is caught
exactly, unerringly. The re-enactment through Beale-Ampico is the real Lopez. Ask
him for an encore, when you will. He’ll give it again and again Not a bar, not a
note, not a shading ever different from the original
Great to listen to, greater still to dance to —jazz is a tonic and an exhilaration. Not till
you hear Lopez do you know it at its best And he plays it only for the Ampico.
As fine a master in his own sphere as the leading exponents of the orthodox, Lopez is a
possession always within your reach. Use him, when and how you will. He’ll beat a
rhythm into your blood that will set your feet a-cruise on a blue sea of delight. He’U
make you tingle with the joy of living.
BEALE-AMPICO
brings this priceless service to devotees of the dance, home-makers and others. It offers
all the latest dance music played by the ablest exponents o f rhythm, including (in ad-
dition to Lopez) Ferdie Grofe, Adam Carroll, J. Milton Delcamp, Ralph Reichenthal and
others who record their playing exclusively for the Ampico.
NOT ONLY DANCE MUSIC
Of course dance music is not the only thing that
the Beale-Ampico provides it brings also the
playing of the greatest pianists in the world*
Godowsky, Rachmaninoff, Levitzki, Ornstein,
Schnitzer and hosts of others.
INVITATION TO HEAR IT
lr is impossible to describe the Beale-Ampico—
you must hear it to appreciate how marvellous it is
—come at your convenience and spend a pleasant
half hour listening to a programme of your own
choosing, in the Beale Salon or at any of our
Branch Addresses.
Exchange your piano for a Beale-Ampico
The Beale-Ampico may be yours to-day. A moderate initial payment, and the
value of your present instrument deducted from the price, and the balance
arranged on easy terms, makes possession of the Beale-Ampico possible for
almost anyone.
Catalogue and other descriptive literature post free on request.
BEALE & COMPANY
/
*1 .<&
y~'i
KTO?i
lms
c A Lopez re-enactment on the Beale-Ampico
is never a shading different from the original.
Showrooms:
340 George Street, Sydney
LIMITED
Head Office and Factories:
41.47 Trafalgar St., Annandale
The life of the Birthday Party
it the Beale-Ampico
BRANCHES: New South Wales: Bathurst, Lismore, Newcastle, Goulburn. Victoria: Maples in all Melbourne Suburbs. Tasmania: Williams Bros.,
Hobart; Maples, Launceston. South Australia: Savery’s Pianos Ltd., Adelaide. Western Australia: Thomson’s Ltd.
BEALE & COMPANY (Queensland) LTD.
90-92 Queen Street, Brisbane.Toowoomba, Maryborough, Rockhampton, Townsville, Maclcay and Cairns.
xni|np


For economical & speedy delivery
IN these modern days of hustle every
progressive tradesman should realise
the need for speedy delivery of goods.
This delivery service must be economical.
B.S.A. Commercial Carriers deliver goods
of practically any type more quickly and
more economically than any other form of
transport, and are being adopted by far-
seeing tradesmen in rapidly increasing
numbers.
There are several models specially designed for use
with the different B.S.A. Motor Bicycles—the machines
which have a world-wide reputation for consistent
reliability and long service under the most arduous
conditions.
All B.S.A. Tradesmen’s Carriers can be fitted with a
special arrangement which enables the bodies to be
readily changed to a passenger-carrying type. You
therefore can have a dual-purpose machine to be used
for delivering your goods or for pleasure touring.
There are over 600 B.S.A. Agents throughout
Australia. Send for catalogue and name of your
nearest agent and then arrange for a demonstration.
B.S.A. Light Box Carrier.
Suitable for B.S.A. 3.49-h.p. and 4.93-h.p.
5„27 Motor Bicycles. Size: 4ft. by Ift. 6in.
by Ift. 6in.; 8£ c. ft. Load not to exceed lcwt
B.S.A. Box Carrier.
Suitable for B.S.A. 4.93-h.p. de Luxe, 5.57*
h.p., 7.70-h.p. and 9.86-h.p. Motor Bicycles.
Size: 4ft. 2in. by 2ft. by Ift. 7in.; 12 c. ft
Load not to exceed 2«-cwt.
B.S.A. Commercial Van Carrier,
Suitable for B.S.A. 7.70-h.p. de Luxe and
9.86-h.p. Motor Bicycles. All-metal body;
size: 4ft. 9in. by 2ft. 3in. by 2ft. 6in.; 20 c. ft
Load not to exceed 3cwt.
Commercial Carriers
Send Tor catalogue and particulars of Easy Payment Terms
AUSTRALIAN DISTRIBUTING AGENTS:
N.S.W. \BENNETT & WOOD, LTD.,
Q’LANDJ 284 Pitt Street, Sydney.
VICTORIA- F//VL/I Y BROS. MOTOR CYCLES
PTY. f LTD.,
322 Elizabeth Street, Melbourne.
SOUTH AUS.-«/. N. TAYLOR <& CO., LTD.,
121 Grenfell Street, Adelaide ,
WEST A US.-MORTLOCK BROS., LTD.,
890 Hay Street, Perth.
TASMANIA -s/A7 king pty., ltd.,
63 Brisbane Street, Launceston.
B.S.A. Sub-Agents Throughout Australia.
D. Y. RENNIE ( Factory Representative), 49 ELIZABETH STREET, MELBOURNE.


■
r
r
6
POST FREE
Mens All Patent
Shoe, smart style,
easy fitting, also
inTan. Black Kid,
6 Black Calf Half
Sijes. DcEfitting >
Qi
JL,
JL-
-249 PITT ST ' Opp.Tattersalis Club
.; .■ .. v --
Welcome the Coming—Speed the Parting Guest with ,
RESCH’S
LAGER, DINNER ALE,
PILSENER & STOUT
AUSTRALIA’S BEST BITTER,
RESCH’S BITTER ALE,
Ask for Them by Name —Keep in a Cool Spot.
Western Australian Distributors:
BURNS, PHTLP & CO., LTD., PERTH AND GERALDTON.
[3
SPORTING
NOTIONS
Under the Whip
The A.J.C. Doncaster Handicap and Syd-
ney .Cup are very open this year—they are
generally that way, though a good thing
like Valicare occasionally comes to light—
and the racing at Rosehill did not simplif.v
the task of the optimists who try to pick
the double. In the first division of the
Renown Handicap, seven furlongs, such
fancied Doncaster candidates as Don Moon,
Cave Dweller and Boaster were well beaten
by Triplex (Kenilworth— Lacerta), who has
been scratched for the Doncaster. Owned by
P. H. Osborne and trained by B. R. Payton,
the Yalicare combination, Triplex had dis-
appointed the stable so often that he was
allowed to run loose at 38 to 1. The same
price was on offer about Golden Grist, yei
the pair had the finish to themselves, Triplex
beating the other outsider by half a length.
Highland (12 to 1) was third, a length
and a half away, and Boaster a fast-finishing
fourth: Don Moon was never sighted, and
Cave Dweller, after flattering his backers for
five furlongs, failed to come on. Lausanne
was a 7-to-2 favorite, but he squibbed it
when the pressure was put on. and the odds-
layers lengthened his price for the Doncaster,
whereas they shortened Boaster's several
points.
The Kelso stable had a much worthier
representative than Lausanne in the second
division- —Persuasion, to wit. This beauti-
ful daughter of The Welkin —Flowery Speech
was the early favorite, but money came so
freely for Yaals that she eased from 4 to 1
to 6 to 1, the chestnut going from fi to 1 to
7 to 2. The Victorian contingent declared
for Manacre (7 to 1), and there was a bit
of money for Hemisphere at 10 to 1, but
nothing else was backed with any confidence,
though there were 19 starters. Pike bounced
Persuasion to the front, and there she stayed.
First Yaals (always prominent) and then
Calmest (20 to 1) challenged her, but she
struggled on gamely, and won well by a
length or so from the Newcastle filly, who cut
Yaals out of third money by a head ; Hemi-
sphere finished best of the remainder, though
Giggle was actually fourth. Persuasion
carved out the seven furlongs in lrnin. 26sec.,
2sec. faster than Triplex’s gallop, and it
being a race with an 8st. minimum, she car-
ried 231b. more than her Doncaster weight,
8st. 21b., whereas Yaals’s Doncaster burden
of 8st. 121b. was increased by 201b. Of the
two. however, Yaals is the more likely to
improve. His appearance suggested that he
was short of a gallop—at all events, this
Page will keep him on its side.
Another daughter of The Welkin in
Welina, whose dam was Angelina, kept up
the family reputation in the first division ot
the Juvenile Stakes. Beckwith, who is fan-
cied for the big two-year-old races at Easter,
was favorite at 7 to 4, Welina being next in
demand at 4 to 1 and the rest from 10 to 3;>
to 1; there were 22 starters. AVelina got
away smartlv, and Beckwith was trailing her
at the turn, but he could not pass her and
fell back among the beaten division; then
Greensil (10 to 1) made a run at the leader,
but was beaten a head; Prime Don (14 to
1) was third. It was a fine exhibition of
pace and grit on Welina’s part, and loohey
rode her well. The second division went to
I O U (10 to 1), a nice cut of a gelding by
imported Paper Money —Esther, trained _ij
Pat Nailon for Walter Brunton; Greenwich
(12 to 1), a Greenstead youngster like Beck-
with and Greensil, was second and Volunteer
third. .
Although Bacchus did not win the Duke
of York Handicap, 10 furlongs, for Kelso,
he pleased those who fancy him for the
Sydney Cup immensely. Five furlongs from
home he was lengths behind a strung-out
field, but over the remainder of the journey
he travelled so fast for Toohey that lie
was beaten only a head for first place and
would have been first himself in a few more
strides; and they ran it in 2min. Gsec. Lyon-
down (Amberdown —Eenstep), ridden a wait-
ing race in front by that clever youngster
Ellis, credited the Queensland owner-trainer
McLaughlin with the big money, and un-
lucky Luddenliam was only a head behind
Bacchus, so the handicapper was on good
terms with himself. Spaghetti, who cut up
badly, w r as favorite at 4to 1; Bacchus was
8 to 1, Luddenliam tens and Lyondown
twelves. Bacchus, who carried 81b. more
than his Sydney Cup weight, Bst., is now one
of the Cup favorites.
There was another exciting finish in the
Holiday Handicap, eight furlongs, heads
separating Star Rocket, Chris and Pigeon
Pie. A protest was entered by the Chris
people against Star Rocket, interference
being alleged, but the stewards dismissed it
after the bagmen had vainly tried to lay
5 to 1 Chris. This was tli e best betting
race of the day, substantial commissions
going on Piastoon and Pigeon Pie (4 to 1),
Star Rocket and Little Coon (7 to 1),
Buchanan (8 to 1) and Chris (10 to 1), and
the bags were bulging when McSliortodds
went home.
* * * *
There will be another meeting at Rosehill
next Saturday, and a very attractive one.
A few remarks on the prospects follow: —
Railway Handicap, seven furlongs. Boaster
and Vaals are in with 9st. 41b. and
NO POINTS IN FOURTHS.
FIRST PUNTER (on the way to the races): “Wonder what the day will briny forth?"
SECOND PUNTER: “I'd rather know what it will bring first."
9st. respectively, and one or both will
take beating—last Saturday’s outing should
improve them. Hemisphere (Bst. olb.)
may also be expected to show up more
prominently; he seemed to get into difficul-
ties in the Renown Handicap. As there
were 54 nominations this race is sure to be
run in divisions. ,
Rawson Stakes, nine furlongs, w.t.a. with
allowances. Windbag, who is recovering well
from a recent mishap, has 9st. 21b, V alicare
Bst. 121 b., Amounis Bst. 111 b. and Limerick
Bst. -31 b., among others. Limerick has done
a lot of work, and will give trouble, though
Yalicare will no doubt be favorite.
Autumn Handicap, 12 furlongs. Bacchus
has gone up to 9st. 21b., and may be with-
drawn in favor of Piastoon (Bst. 81b.), who
should be better suited by the distance than
by the mile he essayed on Saturday. Lud-
denham (6st. 131 b.) is well and may be grow-
ing more trustworthy, and another with a
chance is Imperial Spark (7st. 61b.). But
Piastoon reads best.
Throe-and-Four-Year-old Handicap, seven
furlongs, with a 7st. 71b. minimum. V aals
(10st. 31b.), if reserved for this, should be a
fair thing. In his absence Manacre (9st.
31b.) may do it; this Melbourne horse looks
a ball of condition.
Parramatta Mile, with an Bst. 71b. mini-
mum. Buchanan (9st. lib.) takes the eye;
lie sweated profusely on going out last
Saturday, and was evidently backed too soon.
Pigeon Pie (9st. 31b.) also impresses, and
Cajole (lOst. 21b.) carries weight well, and
has done a bit of racing.
* * * *
With Heroic, Waranton, Royal Feast and
the like gone to (or under orders for) Syd-
ney, there was little to break the monotony
of an ordinary suburban programme at Men-
tone (Vic.) on Saturday. The Spearhead geld-
ing Smoke Bomb has disappointed the Holt
stable on several occasions this season when
heavily backed, but lie stood out from the
six commoners who opposed him in the Men-
tone Handicap, 10 furlongs, and McShort-
odds demanded 11 to 8, Lady Kingsburgh
being at 4 to 1. Duckshot (12 to 1) had
a four-lengths’ lead into the straight, but
the favorite caught him a short distance
from the post and won well by a length, the
Bucklaw gelding being six lengths ahead of
the Lanius mare Meshalim (15 to 1). Smoke
Bomb races in the colors of Holt and Major
Billy McCulloch; he was ridden by Duncan,
and covered the distance in 2min. 6sec.
Duncan, who is back to his old form, was
also successful in the Mentone Plate on the
hitherto unlucky Solus (7 to 4). This King
Offa mare snatched a half-head victory from
Valoden (5 to 2) literally in the last stride.
Results favored the ringmen—but, then,
they generally do.
The charity meeting at Moonee Valley
on Monday was chiefly remarkable for the
victory of Lady Tattler, owned by V.R.C.
chairman L. K. S. Mackinnon, in the Queen
Victoria Handicap, 10 furlongs. Going out
at 6 to 1, this taking three-year-old filly
won in really good style by a length from
T. M. Burke’s gelding, King Osric (5 to 1),
with Lokohu (12 to 1) third. Lady Tattler
belongs to a staying family; she is by Spear-
head from Royal Charter’s sister, Queen
Gossip. Though no beauty, she came home
well in fast time —-2min. Rlsec.—and there
are so few decent stayers about that she
should score again in better company. She
is trained by the one-time crack jockey,
Charlie Cooper.
“H. Hardupp”: The sociable owner of
one of Saturday’s winners had taken our
street into his confidence, and the street
shared in the financial trophies of victory.
The aftermath struck the neighborhood
some time after midnight. Sleeping on the
verandah, I heard the taxi drive up, and
the woman next-door rather timorously answer
the driver's ring. “ ’Scuse me, missus are
you married, an’ is yer ’usband missing?”
he asked in a worried manner. “My hus-
band is not yet home,” she said haughtily.
“Well, missus,” said the taxi-man, “I’ve
got three ’usbands who live in this street in
me ear, an’ they don’t seem able to sort
themselves out. You might step down an’
’ave yer pick.”
The Liverpool Graud National, the world’s
leading “lepping” race, was won last week
by an old stager in Sprig, Bovril 111. being
second and Bright’s Boy third. Only seven
out of 37 starters completed the course
of four miles and a half over the stiffest
jumps in the world. Sprig, who started at
8 to 1, is owned by a Mrs. Partridge, to
whom he was left by a soldier-son, killed in
the war. It was his third try at the big
race: he was fourth last year.
* * * *
M. (and Rafferty) Rules
Jack (or “Yank”) Hannaberry, a heavy-
weight from the Riverina, shaped so disap-
pointingly at the Sydney Stadium on Saturday
night that the small crowd was sorry it
hadn’t gone to the pictures. Scaling 12st. 71b.,
and looking about a stone more, Hannaberry
met the dour negro who is facetiously
nicknamed “Sunny” Jim Williams (12st.
2Hb.), and was knocked out in the sixth
round. So vigorous was the spurious
“Yank’s” backpedalling that the spectators
were soon raucously exhorting him to fight.
But when he did have a lash, his crude efforts
had as much effect on the coon as the buzz-
ing of a domestic mosquito. As usual, Wil-
liams played his man till he’d got the strength
of him, and then methodically knocked him
out. He had floored the novice for “nine”
in the fourth round.
* * * *
“Ole Grump”: Geore-e Cook, billed in
Britain as an Anzac (he never left the home
front), returned to Australia with an English
wife. The lady installed herself as Cook's
manager, dictated whom, when, where and
how “she” w r ’ould fight, dragged the big boy
out of a Newcastle engagement while the
sports were waiting in their seats, did not
trouble to defend the case when the promoter
sued for breach of contract, and finally
bundled her capture off to S’Africa without
even letting his uncle (and backer) know,
And Cook could have made at least £1000 in
Sydney by boxing Payne and Williams, whom
he outweighed and would assuredly have
outpointed. No more she-managers in the
N. boxing business!
* * * *
The reign of 15-round bouts was aus-
piciously ushered in at Melbourne by Alf
Stewart (list. Glib.) and Frisco McGale
(10st. 1211b.) ; the speed with which the
pair battled would probably have been lack-
ing over the old Marathon course. The
oft-defeated Alfred needed a victory badly to
restore his confidence, His refusal to take
unnecessary risks perhaps helped the' coon to
see it through. As it was, the consistency of
Alf’s body blows hurt the colored gent, who
occasionally entreated his opponent in a
hoarse bass to “keep dem up": but not
one of the white boy’s blows was below the
Plimsoll line. The black had a bad time
from the 12th onwards, and Alf ran out a
comfortable, winner.
* * * *
“The Gaffer" : All this yap about organised
boxing and stadiums leaves me cold. In
the good old N.Q. days, when the ped. game
used to get blown to a bubble, it was worth
while, sometimes, to change, over to the mitt
business. One or two of the boys
always shove a glove, and we used to bill em
(in places that didn’t know us) as cham-
pions. I’ve had “Otto Cribb” and “Mick
Dunn” doing a frame-up at Bogantungan
show, and next week they’d be at Emerald or
Jericho as “Herb McKell” and “Tli Sydney
Incog.,” say—that last was _ a good draw,
for the crowd could make him out anyone
they could kid themselves he measured up
to. Mostly, our talent was quite good enough.
Sometimes we struck something good, usu-
ally an amateur in from a station for a spree.
Well, if he couldn’t be squared, he could
usually be “fixed” at the pub he stopped at—
I’ve known some hungry cows of landlords
ask as much as 50 per cent. If the worst
came to the worst, we sooled our snak<-
eharmer and contortionist on to him—we
travelled with a booth show, of course. She
never failed.
* * # *
Racket and Bawl
E. T. Rowe, the South Aus. lawn-tertnis
champion, successfully defended his title
against the redoubtable O’Hara Wood in
the final at Adelaide on Saturday. The
Victorian took the first set, 7 —5, but the
South Australian ran away from the Davis
Cup crack in the remaining sets, 6 —0, 6 —3.
G—2, a fine showing against a player of
Wood’s calibre. It was the Wheat State’s
only ray of light in the general gloom of
the championships, for Victoria walked off
with all the other events. The junior singles
was won by S. G. Lum from D. P. Turnbull
—a promising lad, nevertheless —while Miss
Boyd took the women’s singles back to Vic-
toria, as well as the doubles, in company with
Miss Anthony. Mixed and junior doubles
were also pouched by the Cabbage Gardeners.
* * ■* >*
“15-30”: Accurate as is the game of E. T.
Rowe, I always find myself wandering away
from any match in which he occupies one
half of the greensward. Technically, there
is nothing wrong with the man’s play, but
it is about as unadorned as an oration by
Granville Ryrie. The connoisseur who takes
has seat at a Rowe demonstration in expec-
tation of some tonic passes of the stop-, half-
or lob-volley persuasion is sure to be dis-
(Continued on page £1.)
OPENIN’ OUT.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
If Ike kad one obsession worse
Than any others which controlled him,
One which his punters oft would curse.
And often caused his clerk to scold him,
It was for safety betting, and
This little failing stood revealed
Each time he opened up his book,
And cried, “Come on, each flamin’ Rook;
I’m layin’ 6 t’ 4 tlv field!”
There came a day when Ike, alas!
Got “shot,” aud failed to watch the
scratching.
The punters rushed at him en masse —
The spirit of emprise was catching.
Ike laid them all, with bliss sincere,
Till someone in his earhole squealed,
‘•There’s only two prads startin’!” Biff!
Ike took the knock and went out stiff —
They laid him level on the field.
Later, amid a motley crew,
Ike took his pitch by Peter's portal,
lie watched the M’s.L.A. go through;
The Heads, the Tugs, each erstwhile
mortal;
All types he knew too well on earth,
Each one to face the Judgment steeled.
“I’ll open out for vunce,” he cried,
“I’ve got these blighters home an’ dried:
I’m laying 10 t’ 1 th’ field.”
N.S.W.
*
THE AMATEUR URGER.


r\
•l
&S
1 «: fl
jj
1
••
SI
toU "i in i
F | I
* 11
loNsofJ T o^
* *
i-ONOO^
« ' w '--
s in -
ftp
t
' 'HI
m
-
LONDON STORES, MELBOURNE.
CONSTRUCTED FOR: LONDON STORES, LTD.
ARCHITECTS: MESSRS. H. W. & F. B. TOMPKINS,
CONTRACTOR: W. E. COOPER, Esq.
DATE OF CONSTRUCTION: 1926.
Floors reinforced with B.R.C. Fabric.
Strength, safety and accuracy of spacing are features of
B. R. C. Fabric that are definitely recognised by
architects and builders, combined with the increased
speed with which constructional work can be carried out.
E
m
Concrete Reinforcement's
nrrrnrnrrrrnrr;
rrrrrrrrrmrm
have proved themselves under most varied and severe
conditions and have never been found wanting.
Australian Reinforced Concrete Engineering Co. Pty., Ltd.,
Consulting and Designing Engineers,
Normanby Chambers, 430 Little Collins Street, Melbourne.
’Phone: Cent. 8861. Works: Sunshine, Victoria.
Sole Distributing Agents:
VICTORIA Collin & Co. Pty., Ltd., Melbourne.
NEW SOUTH WALES .. J. Wildridge & Sinclair, Ltd., Sydney.
QUEENSLAND J. Wildridge & Sinclair, Ltd., Brisbane.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA . . Elder, Smith & Co., Ltd., Adelaide.
WEST AUSTRALIA ... Elder, Smith & Co., Ltd., Perth.
TASMANIA Hume Pipe Company (Ausfc), Ltd., Hobart.
NEW ZEALAND A. C. Gillies & Laird, Wellington.


Legal Notice.
yO FRANK STEPHENS, and to any
child or children of the said Frank
Stephens, and to all persons claiming by,
through or under him or them.
PURSUANT to an Order made on the
4th day of March, 1027, by a Judge of the
Supreme Court of New Zealand, you are
hereby called upon to send in to the under-
signed on or before the Ist September, 1927,
your claims to the estate of Edward Ernest
Stephens, who died intestate on or about the
3rd December, 1925, failing which the said
estate will be distributed amongst those
entitled thereto, disregarding your claim.
DATED at Wellington this 10th day of
March, 1927.
G. G. ROSE.
Solicitor to the Public Trust Office,
Wellington, New Zealand.
S\ONEfs
rt
$
fj »T 14 5%
GOOD JUDGMENT
Good business judgment means choosing the most efficient equip-
ment for every purpose.
PIONEER LEATHER BELTING
and Pioneer Mechanical Leather Goods are the accepted standards
of quality equipment in their respective classes.
Rixtv-eight years of experience in tanning, belting and leather goods manufacture are your
guarantee that quality is right.
Your inquiries or orders will be promptly attended to.
Manufactured only by
J. C. LUDOWICI SON, LIMITED
Pioneer House, 117 York Street, SYDNEY,
Pioneer Leather Belting Manufacturers since 1858.
INTERSTATE and NEW ZEALAND AGENTS:
VICTORIA: Benson Bros., Ltd., 107-109
Queen’s Bridge Street, Melbourne.
QUEENSLAND: Hoey, Try, Ltd.,
Edward Street. Brisbane:
Burns, Philp & Co., Ltd., Townsville
SOUTH AUSTRALIA: John Mclvell and
Sons. Timpson Street, Port Adelaide.
WEST AUSTRALIA: Horace Summers,
Howard Street, Perth.
TASMANIA: Charles Davis, Ltd.,
Elizabeth Street, Hobart.
NEW ZEALAND: Friar, Richards &
Upton, Auckland. Blackburn, Smith
& Co., Christchurch.
ACCURATE SHOOTING
with a
COLT .22 CAL. AUTOMATIC
PISTOL.
Perfectly balanced; fires 10 ordinary .22 Cal.
long-rifle rim-fire cartridges as fast as you can
pull the trigger for each shot. This model has
proved most useful to sportsmen requiring a
handy weapon of highest quality firing a
standard cartridge which is both economical
and easy to procure. Length of barrel 6$ inches;
length overall 10$ inches; weight 28 ounces.
IDEAL FOR TARGET SHOOTING AND
SMALL GAME, £8 10s.
ACCIDENTAL DISCHARGE WITH A COLT
AUTOMATIC PISTOL IS ABSOLUTELY
IMPOSSIBLE.
CADET RIFLES, Cal. 297/230 Converted Mili-
tary Rifles, Martini Action, 500 yards range,
555.
Gun and Cartridge Makers,
318 Tuttle Collins St., Melbourne.
Racquet and Bawl ( Continued)
appointed. E. T. is a steady ball-puncher
with a patience that amounts to genius. He
fin go imperturbably smacking the ball down
the lines and to the corners, never wavering
in his intention of making 17 drives achieve
what one Brookes placement would do m
,, fraction of the time. I am not uncon-
scious of the deadly precision of his shots m
a bombardment. Rowe never causes the
linesman to retire from voice-strain. His
quota of “outs” in recent tournaments was.
I believe, rather below than above the
average.
* * * *
The final of the Rushcutter’s Bay Ground
championship between .Tack Crawford, N.S.W.
junior champion, and R. E. Schlesinger was
the principal item in N.S.W. tennis last
week. Crawford had decisively defeated Jim
Willard in one of the semi-finals, but he
found Sclilesinger too strong for him, the ex-
Yictorian winning 6 —4, 6 —8, 6—-2. The
more experienced player drove with great
power on his pet forehand strokes, while
backhand and service were equally good.
Crawford made a great recovery in the
second set, but the effort took too much out
of him, and he was lacking pace and punch
in the third.
* * * *
“Linesman”: Though France will be with-
out Lacoste’s racquet for the 1 •avis Cup
this year, there seems no ground for the
cabled belief that the Gauls will have a
tight to reach the challenge round. Unless
the Germans unearth another young Krupp
of the calibre of Landmann, the European
half of the engagement ought to be a minuet
for the Frenchmen, if they are Borotra,
Brugnon and Cochet, who, barring accidents,
will be available. There is nobody in Eng-
land capable of beating that trio, and if
there is anybody in the other countries we
have yet to bear of him. In singles Cochet
and Borotra are international stars, and
Brugnon would be well up among the best
dozen doubles players on earth. Should these
players ultimately cross the Pond, as seems
likely, they will probably have to face Japan
in the final round.
* * * •
The Nineteenth Hole
“Buffing Spoon”: Golf, once the obsession
of the few, has now become the possession
of the multitude, whose mad pursuit of the
game has made it impossible for many people
who could once afford it to continue. The
rash has jambed the doors of every club
within a reasonable distance of Sydney, in
spite of increased entrance fees and sub-
scriptions. To venture on the municipal
links at Moore Park is to court sudden death
W. F. GARDEN, a well-known Victorian
sportsman.
or mayhem. The obvious remedy is for other
municipalities to utilise their Avaste sites for
public links, or to acquire such sites as
dividend-paying propositions. Hundreds of
American cities with smaller populations than
Sydney are making handsome profits out ot
their public golf courses, in most cases
acquired by purchase outside the city boun-
daries.
“Ploughman”: Sydney golfers got a mild
shock when they read last week-end that
G. C. Glancey, in Concord club’s Bogey han-
dicap, had towelled the Colonel from scratch
—and 5 up, at that. Glancey went out in
35 and came home in 37, and though the
Concord course is no 'Sandwich the figures
are meritorious. Nevertheless, they eonvey
the impression that the Concord Colonel is a
kindly old bird who is not too hard on his
opponents. But, even for a scratch man, 5
up is a severe set-back, and the club mig’ht
well consider the question of revising its
Bogey or stiffening up the course.
“Divot Digger”: Indooroopilly (Q-), one
of Australia’s youngest golf clubs, is now
set in friendly rivalry
with the Brisbane
G.C., which lives at
Yeerongpilly. T he
neAvcomer’s course is
far up the wooded
river, above Brisbane.
The first annual re-
port states that the
original nine-hole
course is now being
rapidly extended to
the full 18. The In-
dooroopilly terrain is
very hilly, and carries
more forest than the
average southern
golfer is accustomed
to, but it is sporting
enough for anything.
Brisbane’s original golf
course Avas laid out 30
years ago at Sher-
wood, but suburban
builders have long
chased it further
afield. Among the
chief hazards of the
Sherwood course were
the goannas, Avhich
were plentiful, and
suspected of SAvallowing the golf balls. No
complaints of the kind have come from Indoo-
roopilly.
* * * *
“Good Iron” : The committee of the Heales-
ville (Y T ic.) club aims at providing its
members with the very best in the State.
Operations are in hand to convert the course
into one of 18 holes, and there are to be
improvements to the club house. An added
kick is to be given to existence by the pro-
vision of facilities for “spots” in the case of
visitors dubious of the local water. The lack
of a nineteenth hole has been a draAvback in
the past.
* X- * *
The Ins and Outs
“Trevdee”: Victoria seems to be the home
of family cricket teams. The Carracher
family, from Edenhope, recently furnished an
eleven to play a combined association team;
it Avas beaten but not disgraced. The fam-
ily’s bowling averages, as published, make
unusual reading: “Allie, 3 for 13; Tom, 1 for
4; Jim, 1 for 5; Dick, 1 for 11 ; Arthur,
2 for 62.” Other family teams of the Cab-
bage State are the Rankins (Geelong), the
McConchies (Richmond) and the Hogans
(Birchip).
* * * *
“C.Y.L.”: Scores have been on the big
side in Goulburn (N.S.W.) district cricket
this season. This is largely due to a local
rule designed to liven up the game so as
to make it a gate-money proposition. Ordi-
nary boundaries count 6, and over-the-fence
is 10. But sloav batsmen are as sloav as
ever, and the crowds keep away. The only
effect noticeable is the murdering of bowling
averages, and the bowlers had troubles enough
as it was. If Goulburn is keen on brighten-
ing up the game, why doesn’t it try a time
limit of, say, 100 minutes per innings—120
minutes would be better still —a side dismiss-
ing its opponents with, say, ten minutes to
spare to have the ten minutes tacked on to
its own period?
**. * *
“Shrewsbury”: Britain has been indulging
in a mild controversy as to the sex of a
cricket ball. Modern writers use “it” in
this connection, but unbending conservatives
insist that the gender is feminine, and point
out that the reply of the English umpire
Avlien giving a decision against the batsman
is generally “Chuck ’cr up.” All doubt has
been set at rest by reference to the original
rules of 1774. These say: “When ye ball is
hit up, either of ye strikers may hinder ye
catch (!) in his running ground, or if she
is hit across ye wicket ye other player may
place his body so as to hinder ye bowler
from catching her, but he must not strike
at her or catch her with his hand.” Evi-
dently there was ample material for trouble
in old-time cricket, with the eternal feminine
as the primary cause.
* * * *
“Hotham”: The Board of Control has
decided to abolish the eight-ball over where
visiting English teams are concerned. It
seems a retrograde step, for the time saved
to the public and the fatigue spared to the
fieldsmen by the lessening in number of the
change-overs was an emphatic point in favor
of the innovation. No doubt the procedure
hampered English players unaccustomed to
it, but that could have been avoided by
adopting the idea in England. It would not
have been the first change, either. The
writer can remember the four-ball over, and
the yells Of fury from the diehards of English
cricket when an iconoclastic Marylebone com-
mittee made it five balls. There was later a
change to six balls, but the old order had
been so shattered by the five-ball atrocity
that it could only protest^feebly.
“Howzatt”: Alderman Billy McElhone, of
Sydney, Avho has some authority to speak
on the subject of Australian cricket, had
something to say to interviewers when he
came back to Australia after a long tour
in Europe. Most of his dissertation was
TAKING THREE CHANCES.
BARBER: “What are you having to-day, sir?”
CUSTOMER : “’Aircut an’ shave fer meself, shingle fer the
stress-an’-strife, an’ a dollar each way on Buglepumpkin
in the Welter.”
against the Board of Control’s now notorious
refusal to increase the bonus to the players.
That is as may be, but William’s suggestion
that the board should pay a lump sum to
members of the eleven before the team leaves
Australia is just plain foolishness. Most
of the crowd, no doubt, would be glad to get
their allotment for the tour before starting,
and would arrange their expenditure accord-
ingly. But unless human nature has
changed a lot of late years, there are always
one or two individuals on a side who wrnuld
be broke to the wide before they struck
Australia again. Just as it takes a
thoroughbred to stand corn, so it needs a
very level-headed chap to carry through with
his contract on full advance payment.
* * * *
W. M. Woodfull did not commence the
cricket season particularly well, but he is
winding it up characteristically. Following
on his dashing 140 in the Macartney benefit
match in Sydney he has knocked up 142 for
Carlton v. Hawthorn-East Melb., and 125
n.o. for Carlton v. Melbourne. Woodfull’s
club, however, is out of the running for the
Melbourne premiership. The four clubs in
the final round are St. Kilda, Collingwood,
Hawthorn-East Melbourne and South Mel-
bourne.
* * # *
“Percy Pawnticket”: The midget brothers
Biliks being the champion bats of the team
which gets the applause of our neighborhood,
it was a surprise when we learnt that the
usual order was changed, and, whilst Joe
opened the innings, Jim was not going in
until fifth wicket down. Joe got sot early
and piled on the runs; but other batsmen
failed dismally. We looked for an improve-
men when the fifth wicket fell, but, instead of
Jim, Harding appeared, and was promptly
bowled; then Pearce, who once nearly made
a run, came out. Really concerned, I went
to the team’s room, and saw the absent
midget champion, who should have been out
helping his midget brother make runs, sit-
ting on a chair staring glumly at the pro-
ceedings. “Y’see,” he explained, “I’ve torn
me pants so badly that I daren’t get off this
chair ; and me brother’s are the only ones that
’ll fit me. He was goin’ to pass ’em over to
me w’en he got out, so’s I could ’ave me
strike ; but it looks as if the coav’s goin’ to
carry his bat.” He did; and Jim Binks
Avas marked as “absent” when the innings
closed with nine wickets down ; but right up
to the last moment I had hopes that ho
would have faced the embarrassing position
in a more heroic spirit and exposed shirt-tails.
* * * *
Footbrawl
“Pineapple”: Queensland Soccer players
are pulling their weight in the matter of the
forthcoming visit of the Czecho-Slovakian
team. The Australian association asked the
State for £7OO, a big sum considering that
the round-ball game is practically confined
to Brisbane and the Ipswich coalies; but
the money Avas on hand almost before the
letter of requisition had been filed. Not the
least noteworthy contribution Avas a fiver
from the Toowong Government school team.
* * * *
“Frog’s Hollow”: Sydney’s old Rugby
League acquaintance Duncan Thompson,
about the best attacking scrum half the code
has boasted since Chris. McKivatt, has been
appointed coach of Toowoomba (Q.) Rugby
League. “Tommo,” it may be remembered
—fame, alas! is fleeting—after representing
N. S. Wales on Australian, Maoriland and
English fields, shook the dust of the Ma
State off his Dally Messengers because an
umpire had “sent him off” for alleged foul
play and was upheld in the action by the
appeal committee. Since then, he has be-
come a dealer in sporting goods at Too-
woomba. Duncan stepped into his new job
in place of W. J. Renwick, who goes as
coach to Blackall, a once-festive hamlet on
the Upper Barcoo which has enlarged its
outlook with the years.
* * * *
“Przemsyl”: All the horrors of endeavor-
ing to distinguish between the numerous
Chinese generals fade into nothingness when
one considers the names of the Czecho-
slovakian Soccer eleven which will be upon
us in May. There are 16 players, each with
at least two names, and hardly a dozen
vowels among the lot. The only monnickers
to be approached with confidence are Hoch-
man and Wimmer, but most of the rest are
like Knizek, which the initiated pronounce
“Kneezejek,” and Hybs, whose proper style
is “Hypsch.” It is a fearful thing to
hear a bookie in his agony struggling with
the classical cognomen of some hitherto un-
heard-of two-year-old, but. Australian Soccer
barrackers will be parties to even more dread-
ful struggles this coming season. .
* • •* * *
“Past Grammar”: Some of the N.S.W.
Rugby Union officials have been complaining
at the smallness of the daily spending allow-
ance to the players who will tour Britain
with the N.S.W. team next season. It will
be 3s. a day, and, since the rules of the
Amateur Federation permit a maximum of
55., it is urged that this should be the figure.
For many years before the “allowance ’ sys-
tem crept in, men were glad to tour the Aus-
tralian Rugby States and Maoriland for their
bare travelling and housing exes., finding all
their own kit, save jerseys—-a fairly expen-
sive item. Few of them were affluent, but
they played good footer and enjoyed them-
selves as much as the present generation
docs. I never heard of a player standing
down for want of pocket-money either. There
is far too much coddling in amateur sport
nowadays, and in the matter of allowances
and free supplies, such as clothing, boots
and the like, the line between the amateur
and the pro. is often a mere technicality.
* * * *
“Gash Amateur”: The Sydney. Rugby
League press is once more suggesting that
the amalgamation of the League with the
Rugby Union is highly desirable, and not
beyond the bounds of possibility. The
League is given to these attacks of optimism,
as its ambitious attempt to weld its code
and Australian rules into one some time ago
showed. It is insinuated that amateur con-
trol would solve the problem, and that ama-
teur and pro. might then play Rugby—under
which code is not stated—side by side. The
pious aspirers overlook the fundamental fact
that the Union game is based on amateur-
ism, and even if the antagonism of the Eng-
lish R.U. to modernisation has been the
cause of occasional friction with the
THE MAXIMUM FOR HILL-
GLIM BIX G.
PEDESTRIAN: “Fee that, Constable? Went
right over me, and didn't even hesitate."
POLICEMAN: “Yes, sir. Great hill-climber,
that car, sir.”
Dominion Unions, there is not the slightest
chance of that base being undermined. The
Iiugby Union, most catholic of amateur
organisations, bars as a “pro.” only the man
who plays, or is associated with, paid foot-
ball. The professional pug., ped., cyclist and
all the rest of them are accounted amateurs
provided they play their footer under R.U.
rules, and without remuneration. Still, the
feeler put out by the League is interesting.
There is a suggestion of anxiety for the
future about it.
(Continued on page -42.)


THE
WOMAN’S MIRROR
Published Every Tuesday
Is the most popular 64-page
woman’s paper published in
the Commonwealth. It features
everything a woman ought to
know. Once you read it you
will never be without it.
Its up-to-date weekly pattern
is free for the asking.
Published by
The Bulletin Newspaper Co*
214 George Street, Sydney.
SDA
SAD
TheTOP-NGTCH'Scotch
Say WHEN Mao!!
I
idr.
Children
enjoy
it makes them
Well and strong
In 4 sizes
of all Chemists & Stores
Footbrawl ( Continued from page Jfl )
“Hugh Stone”: Jim Phelan, one of the
pioneers of the Australian game of football
in N. S. Wales, has dropped out of the
secretaryship of the Newtown club. A.
native of Ballarat, he came to Sydney 40
years ago, and in the ’nineties played the
game on Moore Pax-k, no enclosed grouixd
being then available. He was one of the
founders of the Newtown club, and for a
time was secretary of the League. Now-
approaching three score and ten, Jim is not
likely to witness the fulfilment of his pre-
diction, made in his enthusiastic youth, that
the Australian game would become supreme
in N. S. Wales, but his coixviction that
it is the fastest and cleverest of all forms
of football remains unshaken. A son has
represented the Ma State against Victoria.
* * * *
“Stand Off”: The English Rugby world
has been convulsed by the result of a trial
game under the Maoriland-Australian
amended rule as to kicking into touch.
Briefly, the rule, used in Australasia for
some yeai’s past, penalises the side kicking
the ball out “on the full.” It must bounce
inside the line; this greatly minimises the
stoppage of the game for a line-out, while
it has made kicking much more accurate.
The English game, between Barbarians and
East Midlands, two crack clubs, was won
by the first-named by 24—11, and the
increased speed and open movement evi-
dently impressed spectators. Major Trevor
doesn’t like the change, however, because
“a back division which cannot indulge in
hand-to-hand passing will have no chance”!
Well, ought it to have Buckley’s? Another
bright comment was that the innovation
would ruin forward play. It hasn’t harmed
the All Blacks much in that respect, or the
Cornstalks, either.
The Watermen
The great event of the rowing year, the
inter-State contest for the King’s Cup, will
take place next month at Hobart. Westralia
and N. S. Wales are boating mixed crews ;
South Aus. and Queensland are pinning
their faith to club crews. The S. Aus. test
was held under an unusual condition; the
selectors were empowered to ignore the fact
of a win and to choose whichever of the
contesting crews they considered best suited
to the job ahead. Mannum made their task
easy by winning hands down, and the river
men will l’eprcsent their State. They are
exponents of the short, nippy stroke, and the
Derwent water is supposed to favor the
style, while the Westralians—who have been
training since October and are very con-
fident —are also cxpci’ts in it.
* * * ■ •
The Queensland test was —as usual, now-
adays—won by a country eight, Bunda-
berg, with Brisbane, the only metropolitan
candidate, hopelessly out of it, behind Mary-
borough. The Queensland reps, are also un-
orthodox oarsmen, and it may be worth
noting that Queensland’s two wins in the
series-—the last in 1924—were achieved by
crews trained in the traditional style.
Success in the King’s Cup will practically
mean that the winning eight will have first
call as representatives of Australia at the
Olympiad next year.
* * * *
O. J. Wood, whose presentment appears
herewith, is coach to the N.S.W. eight which
hopes to bring the King’s Oup to Sydney
from Tasmania; that State’s crow won it
in Brisbane last year. Steeped in rowing
lore and experience, Wood was cox of the
No. 2 A.I.F. eight which rowed in the fam-
ous race on the Thames in 1919, when the
A.I.F. No. 1 crew lifted the trophy. He
was assistant coach of the winning crew,
in addition to looking after his own. His
work on this year’s “mixed” crew from the
Sydney clubs which will represent N.S.W.
at Hobart on May 7 is inducing optimism
in Ma State barrackers.
* * * ■*
“Slide”: The Oxford-Cambridge boatrace
looks like being mucked by a measles epi-
demic at Oxford. The race has special Aus-
tralian interest, since Bell, of Geelong
Grammar, whose Adonis-like features caused
him to be followed in his training runs last
year by hordes of gasping flappers, is in the
Cambridge boat again. English critics still
bewail his crouching seat and his “bent arms
at the catch” —a deadly sin. All the same,
the power is there, and that’s what counts.
* * * *
“Glen A.”: Sydney Rowing Club had a
birthday last month. On March 7, IS7O, a
handful of enthusiasts met at the old Oxford
Hotel, King-street, and drew up a set of
rules. The president was George Thornton ;
the captain, Q. L. de Loitte; the secretary,
H. Freeman. Thornton held the presidency
for 31 years, and was succeeded by de Loitte,
who lias retained the position ever since,
establishing a record run for an official in
any branch of Australian sport. The vete-
ran rowed his first race on March 17, 1859,
winning the double sculls for youths under
17 at the Balmain regatta; his comrade in
victory was the late Charlie Mansfield.
Car and Cycle
In a motor-paced cycling match at Sydney
last week H. Opperman (Vic.) beat Frank
Corry (N.S.W.) in two straight heats—five
miles in 7min. 47 4-ssec. and seven miles in
llmin. 18 l-ssec. On the same night “Fatty”
Lamb, the Vic. amateur, smashed the quarter-
century-old record of A. Smytlie by covering
five miles behind pace in 7min. 16 l-ssec.
LamFs sectional times were: 1 mile, lmin.
29 2-ssec.; 2 miles, 2min. 56 4-ssec; 3 miles,
4min. 24sec.; 4 miles, smiu. 50 2-ssec.; 5
miles, 7min. 16 l-ssec. AH. Shepherd holds
the pro. record of 7min. 15 2-ssec.; it was
established at Sydney in 1912.
* * -X- *
The Dunlop Co., which organised a mili-
tary despatch relay test of 1149 miles from
Adelaide to Sydney in 1912, is meditating
something more extended. In the 1912 con-
test cyclists, motor-cyclists and car-drivers to
the number of 190 passed on the flaming
spear. In the. new proposal motor-cars
representing Britain, U.S.A. and continental
Europe will cover the 5000 miles between
Townsville (Q.) and Perth in stages of 150
to 300 miles, ostensibly to show how fast
military despatches can be conveyed but
actually to test the durability of the various
makes. Sixty cars and sporting owners will
be needed to make the stunt a success.
* * * -X-
The Royal Automobile Club’s ten-days’
reliability and touring contest was won out-
right by R. C. Nelson in a 3394 c.c. Buick,
with 767.39 points out of a possible 800.
K. A. Carter, whose 3581 c.c. Chrysler was
driven by Norman Smith, was a fraction less
than five points behind, with a score of
763.01, while A. G. Barnard’s 990 c.c. Fiat
was third, the tally reading 751.44. The
winner scored full points' for reliability,
slow-running and flexibility, while main-
taining a high standard all through. The
tests which brought about this fine per-
formance from ear and driver were: Relia-
bility, 500 points; first hill climb, 70; second
hill climb, 70; flying mile, 70; slow-running,
30 ; flexibility, 30; acceleration, 30. Loss of
points in all cases was mostly due to failing
to keep schedule time on the daily stages.
The class events for “A” cars up to 1500 c.c.
fell to A. G. Barnard’s 990 c.c. Fiat, which
scored 751.44 points out of 800; in “B ”
class cars, 1500 c.c. to 3000 c.c., A. W. Fair-
fax’s 1505 c.c. A.W.F Special scored; and
Nelson with his Buick won the “C” class
event for cars of over 3000 c.c. The high
average of points for general reliability all
through the contest, ranging as they did
from the “possible” of 500 to 432 for the
lowest performance, was a striking testimony
to the complete and almost foolproof de-
pendability of the modeni motor-car.
X * * *
“C.Y.L.”: For queer rules and ideas of
amateurism in sport, commend me to cyclists.
Amateur cyclists—in my neighborhood, at
least —race for “open orders” which are
designated on the programmes by their cash
value. Prizes of Is., 2s. or 3s. a lap are
given—paid out as open orders —and a visit-
ing cyclist who is a good draw gets generous
expenses. All this happens without th(
slightest effect on the riders’ amateur status.
But the most amazing of the cycling rules
are those governing match racing. The other
night I saw a match between two young '
amateurs—l don’t know what the prize was
—in which were used tactics that would not
be tolerated in any other branch of sport. It
was a half-mile race, and the contestants had
won a heat each. In the final they crawled
round for a lap; and one of them “jumped”
at the boll. The other chap went with him,
ran his opponent up the bank into the fence,
and scuttled for his life. Of course he won
easily. Some of the spectators hooted; but
an old hand scornfully explained that they
didn’t understand the game. The “sports”
: who did cheered, and, I suppose, eol-
, lected. Now what would be illegal iu
[ a game like that, and what is the difference
between a cycling amateur and a pro. any-
how?
This is a portrait of Ruth Leplastrier, of
. Sydney, who, being an expert motorist: of
some years’ experience, decided to originate
an independent career for herself. Having
made several round-the-world trips in
her short life, she decided that her experi-
ences and her capacity for finding her own
way ai’ound ought to be worth something in
selling goods; so she set herself up as a
car demonstrator and saleswoman. She doesn’t
tie herself to one brand of car; she has
learned them all pretty well, and when a
buyer comes along she" finds out her needs
(it is mostly her so far) and proceeds accord-
ingly.
* * # »
Speculations as to how much power can
be applied to a motor-car before the limit of
speed is reached may be set at rest by a
car with which experiments are being made
at Dayton Beach, Florida, by the English
driver Segrave. lie has mounted a couple of
500-h.p. engines—they started life in an
airship and were then used in motor-boats —*
fore and aft of a chassis, the under-side of
which is sheathed with armor-plate. The
notion is that if a wheel comes off the car
will toboggan on the sand. Segrave reckons
lie can attain 200 m.p.h., which is near the
limit speed of aeroplanes, but lie hasn’t done
it yet, though he got up to 166| m.p.h. last
week. Campbell, holder of the present sand
record of 174 m.p.h., used a considerably
lighter car of lower power. One of the diffi-
culties of very high speed is that tyres must
have very thin treads, or the rubber lifts off
under centrifugal force. For this reason, and
because of the tremendous petrol consump-
tion— Segrave’s car scoffs up a gallon a
minute—top speed can be maintained only
for comparatively short distances.
* * * *
The increasing vogue of the motor vehicle
in Australia is illustrated in the Common-
wealth Statistician’s compilation of the
monthly totals of car registrations through-
out the. Commonwealth. Nearly all the
States differ in their methods of registration,
which complicates the issue. N. S. Wales
and. Victoria lump their figures, thus in-
cluding renewals and secondhand-car regi-
strations ; Queensland gives net figures, show-
ing renewals separately; South Australia
divides them into new and secondhand regi-
strations; Westralia also lumps all together.
Averaging . the broken periods referred to,
the . total increase of registrations in Aus-
tralia for 1926 was in the neighborhood of
105,000, and that applies to “vehicles” only,
motor cycles being excluded. The greatest
proportion stands to the credit of Victoria
and Queensland, with 20,000 and 21,000
respectively, while N.S.W., with its much
greater population, could claim only some
24,000. South Aus.’s figures are approxi-
mately 10,000, while Westralia also ran, with
a total increase of 2235. No figures are
available for Tassy. The total number ol
registered cars in Australia can only be
guessed,, for the numbers in South Aus.,
Westralia and Tasmania cannot be got at.
N.S.W. had 126,000 motor vehicles other
than cycles in December. 1926. Victoria
97,000 and Queensland 46,905; total for the
three States, 269,905.
Miscellaneous
“Beam”: “Spare Sub.” (B. 17/3/’27)
omitted to include in his list of American
sporting novelties the gum-spitting cham-
pionship of a Missourian town ; it was cele-
brated with a wealth of front-page detail
in the local sheet. The winner, who con-
fessed afterwards that he had trained hard
in his back yard on Sunday mornings, fired
liis chew 22ft. and some inches, which wa<
pronounced brilliant under the exacting con
ditions of the contest, one of which limited
the weight of the missile. After receivin’
the trophy, a handsome silver cup, he was
publicly embraced by his wife and’ escorted
home by the town band.
“S. S. and S.”: One who achieved local
fame without waiting to have it poured over
him was Tom Smith, dead in Rockhampton
(Q.), where lie spent the last 86 years ot
a reputable life as a compositor on thr
Morning Bulletin. His was the foot tha-
kicked the first field goal, thus recording the
first score, ever seen in a Rugby Union match
in Rockhampton, which had previously
played Australian rules. Tom attained addi-
tional celebrity as a cricketer, an oarsman
and a runner, but that goal always remained
the greater glory.
* * * *
“Hamer” : The compartment was occupied
by five members of the Fishermen’s Club
—that temple where each member tells tall
stories expecting to be believed, and scoffs
at the stories told by others—when the par-
son entered. Although regarded dubiously
at first, he proved a congenial companion, anil
it was in a friendly spirit that one of the
anglers asked him: “Ho you believe in the
Bible story of the five loaves and the two
fishes?” “1 do,” replied the sky pilot, firmlv.
The angler’s face beamed joyously. “Weil,
all right,” he said. “I’ll tell you the yarn
about the big fish I caught at Port Hacking
last August.”
* * * «
An ugly customer for the push to bump
against is Bill Payne, of the N.S.W. polico,
who has taken the Naulker Cup for field
events in the N.S.W. athletic championships
for five years in succession. The cup was
presented by the late K. J. Naulker, Consul
for Finland, himself an athlete of European
reputation in these events. The field
games, which require big, hefty men for
their accomplishment, are hammer-throwing,
putting the 1,61 b. shot, javelin-throwing and
discus-throwing. They have been practically
monopolised by trained men of the Austra-
lian police-forces, nearly all the States having
produced a champion at one time or another.
Payne’s record this year is: first in javelin
and discus, second in hammer and third
in shot putt.
* * * #
“Two Blues”: Upwards of 2000 firemen,
representing nearly 150 brigades (there was
a team from Kellerberrin, W.A.), took part
in the annual demonstration, held this year
at Ballarat. It is a purely amateur gather-
ing, and is to be kept amateur; a hint that
“a leading sportsman” would guarantee flOOti
for prize-money if the next affair were held
at Melbourne Motordrome was douched with
ice-water when referred to the representatives
of the _ brigades. An old identity at these
competitions is W. J. Trengrove, of Bendigo,
who has taken part in the one-man ladder
race for 24 years, holding the record of 6 1-5
seconds. He won last year at Bendigo in
6 2-5 seconds, and was second this year to
Chipman Turner, of Ballarat, who has also
been competing for many years. There werr
88 entries.
* * * *
“Splice”: That yarn about the fish that
hauled the unattended rod into the Snowy
River (N.S.W.), and was found still hooked
on when the rod was recovered (B. 17/3/'27i.
reminds. me. Having played in a cricket
match in Brisbane, I walked straight off
the ground to join a launch party going
down to Moreton Bay for week-end fishing,
and, there being no time to leave it else-
where, dumped my bag on board. Its contents
included a cherished bat. One of the party,
setting a shark line at Amity Point next
morning, tied one end to a tree root, and
stood the bat on end with a double hitch
round the handle, as an “indicator,” while we
had breakfast. Suddenly the, bat was dis-
covered to be a.w.1., as also was the shark-
line, save a snapped fragment tied to the
root. It took me some minutes to recovet
control of my language; shark, line and bat
were never recovered at all.
* * # •
“Reformed Gun” : Though the broads still
do well on outback trains and the little pea hops
round country shows, some of the good old-
fashioned spiels are dropping out of mind.
Snail-racing, f’r instance. On a wet day
in a Queensland shed, when the boys were
sick of everything else, I’ve seen a bagftil of
money cross over on the snails. All you
had to do w*as to get some snails —easy if
there was salt-bush—put the owner’s brand
on each, and draw a circle on the ground.
The field was Started from the centre of thr
circle, and the first to cross the line won.
It was always a sweepstake event, and then 1
was plenty of betting, and when it came to
shutting up or running out no Robbery Park
pony could have given those snails points.
Some, of course, were good steady per-
formers, but even these could be made to run
a bye, if necessary. A touch from a finger
which had been dipped in the salt-pot would
stiffen the best of them. I sigh wheu I
think of the bunce we cleaned up till the
mugs tumbled.


Mick Simmon
YM
Football
tal^es
the
Field
With the pre-knowledge of the highly-specialised
service that Mick Simmons are able to accord to
Sportsmen, Footballers have long made this great
Store their yearly buying centre for every requirement
of the Game.
In commending their splendid new stocks of Football Jerseys,
Knickers, Stockings, Footballs, Bladders, Boots, etc., to Players and Club
Secretaries again this season, Mick Simmons do so with a confidence born
of many years’ experience in dealing with every class of Sporting Goods,
and that they offer more exclusive quality, wider scope and infinitely
lower prices.
The Famous “Dally M.”
Rugby Ball.
increasing sales each season of the “Dally
are sufficient testimony as to its undoubted
popularity. This ball was originally designed by
IJ. H. (Dally) Messenger, the world’s greatest foot-
baller. An exclusive feature is the RAISED RIBS,
which deflect the air current, thus ensuring accu-
racy in passing and trueness in flight. Used by
leading (flubs and acclaimed by leading Australian
Rugby players, as the finest ball made.
Every ball is of regulation size and weight, made
from specially selected oak-tanned leather and
thoroughly guaranteed.
Mick Simmons are sole distributors.
PRICE 22/6
Men’s All-Wool
Rugby Jerseys.
Keenly Priced at 9/9
Made from the highest-grade knitting yarns, with
strong linen collar and unbreakable button front.
4in. Horizontal Bars and Plain Colors of all
leading Clubs.
Special Rugby
Match Footballs.
Nicholsons’ Royal, strong practice 7 /-
Nicholsons’ Royal, superior .... 9/6
Nicholsons’ Royal Special . .... 15/-
Nicholsons’ A.N.A. Special .... 20/-
Fords’ Interstate ....... 21/-
Gilberts’ Best English 28/6
(All Rugby Match Balls are fitted with best
quality octotropical red rubber bladders.)
Men’s Cotton
Soccer Jerseys.
Keenly Priced at 7/6
Splendid quality and English make, turn-down
woven collar, button front. 2in. Vertical Stripes
of all leading Club colors.
Special Soccer
Match Footballs.
8-panel 8/6
Albion, 8-panel superior . . 15/6
Special Capless .... 18/6
Official League, 12-pan:l . . .... 22/6
Fords’ Interstate .... 24/-
Cert Special, selected chrome, with
patent vent, 1 1 -panel . 27/6
(All Soccer Match Balls are fitted with best
quality octotropical red rubber bladders.)
Football Boots.
“Dally M ” Patent, Special Rugby
Boots, studded, pair
1611
M.B. Fawn English Chrome Association Boots,
blocked toe and outside ankle pad. strap
over instep, fitted with toe-bar and studs, or * ,
pair ZD/-
\ v
%
And Everything for the Game — Bladders, Shin Guards, Ankle Guards, Ankle Support Straps, Ear
(laps, Elastic Bandages, etc.
The new Football Catalogue is ready. Copy post free-
Got Him!
And with it comes the feeling of
exultation in using a
Mick Simmons Gun or Rifle.
No. 22.
No. 22.—RIVERSIDE ARMS D.8.8.L. GUN, 12-gauge,
bolt, steel barrels, both choke, matted rib, rebounding locks,
pistol grip; tested for nitro. powders ; weight 7 Jlb. to 81b.
30in. barrel
32in. barrel
top lever, cross
£4/17/6
£5/2/6
(Carriage Paid.)
No. 11.
No. 11.—‘WINCHESTER SINGLE-SHOT RIFLE, 1902 Model, 22ca1.,
rim five, ISin. round steel barrel, bolt action; V sight, scroll trigger guard;
rubber heel plate; weight about 31b.
PRICE 35/-
(Carriage: 1/6 N.S.W.; Other States 2/8.)
The Special Shooting Catalogue is a Mine of
Information for the Zealous Sportsman.
Copy Post Free.
No License i
FREE AT LAST,
now required for Guns and Sport-
ing Rifles.
©
IC
irnmonyf^,
‘THE WORLD’S GREATEST SPORTS STORE,”
Headquarters: 720 HAYMARKET, SYDNEY.
Branches: City, Suburbs, Newcastle, Brisbane.


Under
Royal
Warrant
Vintage 1917.
To H.M.
Kin^
GeorgeV
CHAMPAGNE (
mi
Austral? Blan Agents
Swift & Company Limited
SYDNEY.
Champagne
Qjarleslleidsie(K
Reims
& 1 5/ tat!**
WmMwrgg
PELLI3SON
Cognac Brandy.
10 YEARS OLD.
Australasian Agrents—
SWIFT & COMPANY LIMITED, Sydney.
ius.
AS
BJVJ36I for
Reservations.
Wentworth Hotel
Church Hill, Sydney.
SITUATED in a portion of old
Sydney, just a few minutes from
the Theatres, Shopping, G.P.0.,
Circular Quay and the Railway.
Attached to the hotel is the
famous Cafe, with its gorgeous
Palm Court, a splendid Dance
Orchestra and a sparkling Cabaret,
afternoon and evening.
Sydney’s Social Rendezvous.
The cen/ne of Queens
c/ts/tnguts/>&c/ Soc/o/ i-jfe .
Mote I
Magnificent Ball-
room. Palm Court
and Lounges at the disposal or
guests and their friends at an
times.
Suites de Luxe —double and single
Bedrooms, with Bathroom
attached. Hot and cold running
water and Electric Fans in ever)
Bedroom, and every modern con-
venience for the comfort of guests.
Telegrams and Cables: Lennon’s, Brisbane,
Telephone, Central 5780 —10 Lines.
r
A WOMAN'S
LEETER
SAY-
Kayser
SILK OR
CHAMOISETTE
GLOVES
In sparkling sunshine threaded through
with little winds, with the boom of cannon
and the flash of military salutes, with a
swagger of navy blue and gold and a touch
of military crimson and khaki fired with
decorations, Sydney landed the royal Duke
and Duchess at Farm Cove on Saturday
morning. Bunting and garlands and a carpet
that flashed its crimson stream from the.
steps of a white and green emblazoned pavi-
lion across the landing-stage to the blue rim
of Port. Jackson were the still-life decora-
lions of the foreground. In the background
rose the steep, grassy banks of the Domain,
where a wind whispered through the tree-
tops ; and to the sea-wearied travellers there
was Hie refreshing sense of Mother Earth
that even the thousands of humans who
stood to attention, or sat at ease in official
preserves, or craned from the outer edges
of the crowd could not altogether destroy.
To the forefront of the scene of action Min-
isters of the Crown and members of Parlia-
ment stepped with the resolute tread of those
who know they are born to greatness. Pre-
mier Lang, in a grey suit and a grey felt
hat, was supported by his Ministers in the
same millinery; Nationalists were silk-
hatted ; Prime Minister Bruce wore a shin-
ing morning face; Town Clerk Layton was
resplendent in black mohair robes, much
be Fogged, and with point-lace jabot, knuckle
t rills and. a full-bottomed wig. It must be
said for him that his six-feet-odd carried the
regalia with an air. The civic glory that
should radiate from a Lord Mayor was extin-
guished by the.befurred garment that flapped
about Sydney’s first citizen. Australia’s
High Commissioner-designate and his lady
sat meekly behind a barrier in one of the
poorest positions. Chief Justice Street’s
lady was near by. Men with cameras and
the new phono-film were neither meek nor
lowly, and had to be spoken to by the
M.C.’s. Police-chief Mitchell was all things
to all men, and a bit more to the ladies.
’Planes flashing back the light like a sun-
god’s chariot swooped and wheeled overhead.
There was a false alarm when the first
National Anthem rang out —it was only the
Governor-General in a glittersome uniform
and a headpiece that the proudest bird
across the harbor might have envied. Mr.
Layton, with an anxious eye, settled the wigs
and cravats of his charges. A whisper went
around that the Duchess was not to be at
tlie ceremony! Extraordinary bulletins as
to her health were circulated. Everybody
had heard it direct from Somebody. ‘ The
King, the Queen, the Duke, ■ the Priminister
and Clif Hay were quoted; almost the only
person not mentioned in support was the
Pope. But presently came the thunder of
cannon, the dizzying sound of sirens, a roar
of cheers, and flic brass-bound royal barge
cut through the blue water to the landing-
stage.
H.R.H. wore his naval uniform, and the
Duchess was in raiment that looked as
though a garden of pink cosmos had gone
lo its weaving. It was of georgette, floating
as to skirt but swathed as to hip, and about
it flowed a knee-length cape collared with
softest coque feathers of the same lilaey pink.
A hat of the same color, close-fitting, ami
wearing a sparkling brilliant, in its turned-
up rim, champagne shoes and stockings,
lobelia-blue eyes, pretty ankles and the
famous smile became the focus of unwaver-
ing eyes. The Duchess is smaller than her
pliotograjffis give any idea of. She has the
ideal figure for a dancer—firm but light and
small-boned. None of the roses of England
bloomed in her cheeks in the morning, but
her charm lies in a radiance —a sort of all’s-
well-with-the-world air that’s as good as a
course of Coue. The Duke looked worn-out.
But he stood up to the addresses of welcome,
and, having replied unfalteringly and clearly,
was allowed to proceed with his Duchess up
the men-o’-war-lined stone steps that lead to
the higher reaches of the Domain-
From early morning the crowds had been
gathering. First, they footed it around the
harbor fronts to follow the impressive silver-
grey Renown up to her moorings in Neutral
Bay. Motor-cars and lorries poured out to
Bradley’s Head and Watson’s Bay; some
people, it was said, had even camped over-
night on the different headlands. When
these hordes had seen the Renown anchored
to their liking, they rushed citywards to join
the standing armies along the four-mile
procession route. But, alas for sightseers,
and for the decoration committees that had
so painstakingly obscured the beauties of
Sydney behind a veil of bunting and arches
and festoons, there was rightly speaking no
procession at all. In a few seconds the
whole cavalcade, mounted police, lancers,
royalties and outriders, were past any given
point. It was a stingy procession. The
tired-out waiters looked like a kid to whom
some dazzling toy has been offered and then
snatched away. They told one another over
and over again that they liked her smile, but
there were sore hearts as well as sore feet
on the homeward-bound ferries and trams.
About the grounds of Government House
were small companies of V.C.’s, war nurses,
Girl Guides and Boy Scouts waiting for the
royal ohce-over. Standing up to her tailor-
ings in fine style was Matron Kellett, the
grey tunic of her service uniform ablaze with
ribbons and decorations. Behind her a little
company of army nurses braved headache in
their white lawn caps. The Duke greeted
the V.C.’s and the blinded soldiers, and
H.R.H., the .lilac-pink of her dress thrown
into relief by the delphinium-blue of Lady
de Chair’s tailor-made, walked slowly along
the drive. She paused near the V.C.’s, and
stopped further along for a word with
Matron Kellett. She exclaimed over the
number of Matron’s medals, and stole thun-
der from her ducal husband, for he. coming
along a second later, passed exactly the
same remark, adding a rider about the heat,
which he found excessive. His lady had the
better of him there; for her saunter she
had hoisted a wide-stretching brolly—the
creamy sort that is used in the tropics, but
which Miss Sydney would think rather dull.
Neither glistering nor luscious was the offi-
cial reception staged by the State Govern-
ment in the Town Hall the same evening.
Walking-costumes and grey and brown sac
suits pushed their way as tranquilly but as
persistently as bare backs and tiaras and
their accompanying dress-suits towards the
dais, which, seen in the distance over the
heads of the surging hundreds, suggested
THE DUKE AND THE DUCHESS.
the canopy of Macbeth’s four-poster. The
Really Important sought the aloofness of the
galleries till the Royal advent. This occurred
at a quarter to ten, when, preceded solemnly
by Town Clerk Layton and Clif Hay, George
Caun gallantly armed the Duchess to the
dais. At the back Mrs. Cann ruffled in
demure black velvets by the side of the
Duke. Yice-regals followed, and in the pair-
ing-off Mayor Mostyn was forgotten and
only secured Elaine de Chair as a partner
at the last moment. H.R.H. wore cyclamen-
pink velvets, made with side panels that fell
into little flappy train-ends. The dress
snuggled to her slimness, and was crusted
with pearls on its left. The one feather of
her fan was plump and blushed from shell-
to rose-pink. Her pearls were big and
numerous enough to seem cultured on any
but a Royalty and her coronet blazed a
white fire above her blue eyes.
The Duke, more nervous than his lady,
appeared to shrink from' the eye of the
Cyclops, as the concentrated unblinking
stare of those thousands of eyes trained on
him must have seemed before the signal
to move came. The guests were indeed
intent on getting an eyeful of Royalty. They
pushed up in solid phalanx, and the one
diversion of the evening was to gaze. Im-
portant people like ex-Premiers, who should
have been presented, were overlooked. Many
who had rehearsed that bow for weeks
beforehand were not called upon to put it
in motion, while many were called up to
the carpet who, taken unawares, got through
with a frightened smile and a hurried nod.
One white-haired courtier bent deeply over
the Royal hand and gave it the salute of
fealty, and portrait-painter John Longstaff
put a dash of grace into his curvet before
the dais. The Mayor’s lady dropped her
curtsey from a swirl of pink georgettes
glittering with silver. Priminister Bruce’s
wife gave distinguished support, to black
and silver. Lady de Chair’s Oriental bro-
cades were topped by her favorite coronet
of opals and pearls. George Coates, who
looked as though he had a sonorous speech
bottled up within him, brought Mrs. Coates,
who wore black velvets. Dean Talbot wore
his gaiters, but what he lacked in breeks
his bronze-haired wife made up in the length
of her skirts, which were to the ankle.
There was a Jane Austenish look of short
waist and long narrow skirt, about this rever-
end lady's taffetas. Mrs. Clif Hay was
wrapped in Lorelei greens and a pensive air.
The Countess of Cavan wore her shoulders
out of mulberry georgettes, and the graceful
Mrs. Little-Gilmour, who is cut. on straight
lines, was thickly beaded in emerald over
silver tissue. The Duke, as one awe-struck
lady remarked, was in ‘‘faultless evening
clothes.” She seemed to be under the impres-
sion that the men of the Royal family, as
a rule, hired their dress-suits by the evening.
The one real delight of the crowded night’s
sliivoo was the decoration of the basement.
Here the green of early soring draped the
pillars, and red roses rioted thereon, or were
garlanded, valentine-fashion, with streamers
of cerise ribbon. The lights filtered through
shades of the same hue; and gold blazonings
wreathed with roses gladdened the walls.
Overcoats, umbrellas and last winter's cos-
tumes went to the garden party at Govern-
ment House on Monday. Sydney had one of
its sulky days. The skies lowered all morn-
ing, and got tearful and sniffy in the after-
noon. Towards five o’clock the bursting-
point was reached, and just after the Duke
and Duchess were safely locked in the draw-
ing-room, and the most persistent starer was
about to depart, the rain came tumbling
down. It was a horrible moment for the
unprotected. But the party was a great
success; about 5000 turned up. not to wander
about the paths and chatter of the things of
everyday, but to stand about with both eyes
glued on the long French doors that lead on
to the terrace of Government House. The
Duke and Duchess were the party. Along
whichever path instinct whispered they must
walk, crowds gathered like swarming bees;
it reminded one of the never-bet'ore-believed
story of the beautiful Miss Gunnings who
had to be preceded and surrounded by a
guard to force a way through the over-eager
crowds.
H.R.IL suggested a sugar-plum fairy in
her La France rose-pink satin coat with its
deep applique about the lxem. It was col-
lared and cuffed with tawny fur, and above
it snuggled the small hat with its feather
mount at the side—as recognised a bit of
Elizabeth of York as her toque is of Queen
Mary. Down one path, tall-hatted and with a
look of not being at ease with the crowd even
when lie smiled, the Duke strode beside Lady
de Chair, whose raiment was the grey of the
sky. Down another came the Duchess under
Sir Dudley’s escort. The meeting-place was
evidently the marquee on the lower lawn,
and for this point the two made, with thou-
sands surging after. There were moments
when it looked as if something would
break and the front-liners cannon against
Royalty. But by the grace of Providence or
the hefty shoulders of the bodyguard this was
prevented. Outside the iron railings that
skirt this lower part of the grounds, the
uninvited had gathered to gaze; at a whis-
pered word from Elizabeth (Betty for short)
a flap of the tent was buttoned back, and
those on the wrong side of the fence got
as good a look at her as many among the
guests.
One dear old lady who had obtained an
early seat at the tea-tables remained undis-
turbed by the nearness of Royalty. She
cast a puzzled gaze over the pushing," edging,
swaying crowds that beat against her little
possy like an ocean around a coral islet;
then she took a ruminative bite out of a
Marzipan cake, and bent her head once more
to the task in hand. There was something
awe-inspiring in her calmness in the middle
of the maelstrom. It was more arresting even
than the hair of Paderewski that flowed
under liis tall hat; or the Fpon-this-rock-I-
will-build-My-Church look of Archbishop
Kelly.
It was at this point that the party sud-
denly turned and with one accord made for
the wide verandah. Sydney hates to get wet.
The ballroom at Government House is now
a sort of bronze-gold, and the Lady of the
House is afraid it will prove too dull by
night light. However, it looked spruce for
the presentation of dutiful addresses and
gifts for the baby. Through the long win-
dow’s of the ballroom could be seen the guard
of the Lancers and the Australian Air Force.
After these had been certified free of spot
and stain, the important pair seated them-
selves in gilded throne chairs on the dais.
H.R.H. wore his naval uniform, and his
lady’s attire mingled blonde satin and lae n .
Loyal addresses came pouring in. There were
bronze caskets, and a silver tea set, specially
bound Billies, and fairy tales for the baby.
A boomerang from the Bogan River, carved
by stone axes from myall wood, w T as perhaps
the one dinkum-Australian trophy in the
collection.
These father dull proceedings filled Monday
morning. Before eight o’clock hundreds who
had been buffeted on the storm of Saturday
night’s traffic were waiting like patient
sheep for the Town Hall fastness to be
opened to them on Monday night. There
were important people, too, cooling their
heels on the stone steps, and huddling from
the cold blast. Military nabobs and civic
dignitaries jostled and pushed just like yon
and me. Harry Budge, from Government
House, arrived with his ostrich feather-
wrapped wife and small daughter Elise.
Colonel Cox-Taylor made his way to the
top of (lie steps, cast one look at the door,
and —behold it swung wide! Amid the gold
and green of the. hall—the decorations had
the effect of sunlight streaming through the
bush —the Mayor and his pink-taffetas lady
received their guests—Received and received
for over an hour. By a quarter to nine the
hall was so crowded that only heads and
shoulders were visible —-yam couid have worn
plus-fours and your next-door neighbor not
known it.
At something to ten, when the procession,
headed by the Mayor and the Duchess, all
ivory satin and glittering crystal flounces,
did appear, there was such a solid push from
the crowd on the outer edges that crowd
and procession got mixed up, and all but
the Very Mighty had to just about club
their way to the dais. Still, nobody’s temper
was ruffled. Even later, when to keep th
ardent loyalists from crowding in on the
Duchess as she started to dance, a cordon
of aides and civic attaches had to be formed,
nobody looked annoyed.
There were some exquisite frocks. H.R.H-
in her fringed and beaded chiffons, with her
pearls and her diamond tiara, was a radiant
figure. The State vice-reine flew with her
moss-green georgettes pearls that could
greet those of York on terms of equality.
Mrs. Little-Gilmour had found a smile or
two to flash above the gold and silver sequins
on her lilac frock; and the Countess lor
Cavan again saved a yard or so of material
by wearing her sappliire-blue chiffons back-
less. Mrs. Sep Levy was as brilliant as the
great lustre in the vestibule —she looked as
though moulded in minted silver. Judge
Rolin’s lady, in misty-blue georgettes, wa-
one of the evening’s decorations; and the
rich burgundy of Miss Egan’s raiment and
the dewy pink and crystal of Mrs. Fm
Watson’s (she brought deb. daughter Isabel
in white lace) were other notable splashe>
in the picture. Another of the best-looker;
was surgeon McKelvey’s lady, in white aiw
silver, and 'one of the week’s most graceful
wearers of black w T as Mrs. Mulligan. Mrs
Gordon Wesche, Mrs. James Ashton aiut
Clif Hay wore their decorations with an an.
and Leader-of-the-Opposition Bavin brougin
his lady, in coral georgettes.
Of course comparisons are the brand of tlm
Outsider. But Sydney has already noticed
that our present visitors can’t cast that
glamor over a party which the mere entry or
Edward P. always created. It is the dittei-
ence between still and sparkling wine*
served at the banquet. Perhaps if t |v
Duchess's ladies-in-waiting would give her a
bit of support in her smiling, things nugn
froth along a bit. But their dimples snov
no sign of being overworked, and the Lari m
Cavan looks as though his face and not lm
leg had been set in plaster-of-paris for nai
the tour.


Khaxdy bkQthej^itd.
Hardys Whisky Set
of English hand-cut Crystal.
Extra Goblets can
always be ob-
tained.
m
WEB.
m
m
f m
Five per cent,
discount allowed
for Cash.
Kncli piece is
hand-cut and of
the finest English
manufacture.
8A8448 —The gleaming clearness and delicate cutting in
this set of six Crystal Goblets is but faintly conveyed
by the illustration. The height of each goblet is 4|in.
Price, set of six, 72/-
BAB44C—Crystal Water
Jug to match the Gob-
lets. Capacity 2 pints.
Height 6in. Price,
8A8445 —This cut Crystal Spirit Bottle is of
same pattern as Goblets, is 9in. high, and will
take full bottle of whisky. Price, 92/-
¥
%
298-300
COLLINS ST„
MELBOURNE.
HARDY
brothers ltd.
cfi&*UustA&3ew€ll&y
13 HUNTER STREET, SYDNEY.
And at LONDON.
H 6-118
QUEEN ST.,
BRISBANE.
ŗ
DIESEL ENGINES
MARINE—LOCOMOTIVE-STATIONARY.
By DAVID LEWIS JONES,
Commissioned Chief Machinist, U.S. Navy.
JUST
PUBLISHED
Price 25/- Poiius< ‘
1/- Extra.
A complete, thoroughly practical and compre-
hensive treatise, describing and illustrating
American types of Diesel engines: Installation,
operation and maintenance.
Among the Chapters Are:
The Diesel Engine—Elementary Thermodynamics
—Elementary Principle's—Comparative Efficien-
cies—Details of Construction—Spray Valves—
Fuel Pumps, Governors, Fuel Systems—Valve
Gears —Starting and Reversing Gears—Lubri-
cating and Circulating Water Systems—lndicator Cards and Engine testing -
Operation of Diesel Engines—Representative Types of Engines—A 1000 Horse-
power Submarine Diesel Engine—Diesel Engines for Railroad Servict Diesel
Electric Drive for Ships—Properties of Lubricating and Fuel Oils—Marine Rules
for Vessels Propelled by Diesel Oil Engines—2oo Diesel Engine 1 ointeis.
N.S.W. BOOKSTALL CO. LTD., Castlereagh and Market Streets, Sydney.
A Thrilling Australian Detective Story
By AIDEN DE BRUNE
(The man who walked round Australia).
THE CARSON LOAN MYSTERY
Since Fergus Hume wrote “The Mystery of a Hansom Cab” there lias been
nothing to equal this fascinating mystery story. It carries the reader from
chapter to chapter with feverish interest, and only when the last chapter
has been reached a glimmer of light is thrown upon the screen ; then, with
dramatic suddenness, the denouement is reached —and the mystery solved.
THE CARSON LOAN MYSTERY,
PRICE, 1/-; Posted 1/14.
Please mention The Bulletin when ordering.
N.S.W. BOOKSTALL CO. LTD.
CASTLEREAGH AND MARKET STREETS, SYDNEY.
Your Health!
Guinness’s Stout
8
AIJS
mm
The World Over
1759-1927
OBTAINABLE
EVERYWHERE


A. SAUNDERS’
“DIAMONDS”
A. Saunders’
Two-Diamond
Octagon-shaped,
Platinum-set,
18ct. Gold Ring,
£2O,
A. Saunders’
Fine Diamond
Ring, Set Plati-
num. 18et. Gold,
£7O.
A. Saunders’
Diamonds, Octagon -
shaped, Platinum
1 Set. Gold Rim.
£2O.
A. Saunders’
Single Diamond,
Octagon-shaped.
Platinum setting,
18et. Gold Ring,
£2O.
A. Saunders’
Diamonds, Fancy
Platinum Setting,
lSet. Gold Ring,
£2O.
FIRST QUALITY,
SPECIALLY SELECTED,
FANCY PLATINUM SETTINGS.
Hi 111
MIIIS
A. Saunders’ Fine Diamond-Set 18ct. White Gold,
Jewelled Lever Watch, Silk Wristband, £32/10/-
Guaranteed.
A. Saunders’ Three-Diamonds, Octagon-shaped, I’lati-
num-set, 15ct. Gold Bar Brooch, £2O.
W-
A. Saunders’ Single Diamond Knife-edge Bracelet.
£4O.
Smaller Diamond, £2O, £3O.
A Saunders’ Single Diamond Octagon-shaped Plati-
num-set 15et. Gold Brooch, £5.
Larger Diamond, £7/10/-
\Y *— /
!®
Saunders’ Fine Diamond-set 18ci* Gold, Jewelled
Lever Watch, Silk Wristband, £l7/10/*
Guaranteed.
Sent Per Regd. Post Free.
A. Saunders’
Three-Diamonds
Octagon-shaped,
Platinum Setting,
18ct. Gold Ring,
£25.
A. Saunders’
Single-Diamond
18ct. White Gold
Ring, £l5.
A. Saunders’
> Diamond Button-
cluster, set Plati-
num, 18ct. Gold
Ring, £25.
A. Saunders’
Five Diamonds,
set Platinum,
18ct. Gold Ring,
£l2/10/-
A. Saunders’
Diamonds, Fancy
Platinum-set, 18et.
Gold Ring, £2O.
A. SAUNDERS
Watchmaker—Jeweller—Optician,
805-813 GEORGE STREET (opposite Railway Station), SYDNEY.
w
ii
SIIIBS
,v‘V
IK
'T'HF-SE Rings; fashioned in the most beautiful designs and set with carefully selected
' gears of perfectly choice,quality, represent but a few of a wide selection, equally
magnificent, that is always available for inspection at the firm’s showrooms. The
exceptional facilities at the firm's disposal enable them to select their gems from
the. world’s finest offerings, while the experience gained by more than fifty years’
experienced specialising permits them to offer quality and workmanship that is not
obtainable elsewhere.
SPECIALISTS IN FINE DIAMOND 6 GEM RINGS
3+4-346 COLLINS STREET MELBOURNE
TO EUROPE IN 1927!
MAKE YOUR TRAVEL ARRANGEMENTS WITH
THOS. COOK & SON
Railway, Steamship and Tourist Agents,
ESTABLISHED 1841 165 BRANCHES.
PASSAGES
TRAVELLERS’
CHEQUES
INCLUSIVE
INDEPENDENT
TRAVEL
Booked by All Lines at Tariff Rates.
Monthly Sailing List Issued Post Free.
Issued in Sterling and Dollars, in Notes
of £5, £lO, £2O and $lO, $2O, $5O, $lOO.
Tours arranged, including Hotel, Sightsee-
ing and Excursions. Any Route. Class of
Hotel and Travel optional. Itineraries
Prepared.
INCLUSIVE TOUR IN EUROPE 50 Days for £BO
Pleasure Cruises to the Norwegian Fjords.
Motor-coach Tours in Great Britain.
ESCORTED TOURS IN EUROPE,
Visiting
ITALY - - SWITZERLAND - - FRANCE - - BATTLEFIELDS
BELGIUM - - HOLLAND - - and GREAT BRITAIN.
Fares include
Travel, Hotel, Meals while Travelling, Transfers between Stations
and Hotels, Sightseeing, Excursions, Gratuities, Fees, Guides and
Experienced Conductor.
Automobile Tour de Luxe from NAPLES .... 49 days, £396
Select First-class Tours from MARSEILLES .... 71 days, £302
Select First-class Tours from NAPLES 66 days, £283
Popular Escorted Tours from MARSEILLES ... 53 days, £179
Popular Escorted Tours from NAPLES 48 days, £166
Moderate Escorted Tours from LONDON 46 days, £124
DETAILED PROGRAMMES ON APPLICATION.
Monthly “TRAVELLER'S GAZETTE» Post Free.
THOS. COOK & SON
MELBOURNE:
269 Collins Street.
SYDNEY:
Martin Place,
(Opp. G.P.0.).
ADELAIDE:
49a Grenfell Street.
AUCKLAND:
N.Z. Insurance Building,
Queen Street.
WELLINGTON;
Government Life Building
(Next G.P.0.).
Hgstertauch
The Music Roll of Distinction.
Attractive List of March Releases.
Fox Trots.
*D.16l7 —I've Grown So Lonesome Think-
ing of You
*D.1619 —Black Shuffle
D. 1620 —Angry
o.l623—Drifting and Dreaming (Sweet
Paradise)
D. 1625 —My (,'utey’s Due at Two-to-Two
To-day
*o.l626—She’s Everybody’s Sweetheart
(But Nobody’s Gal)
0.1630 —Me Too
I >.l632—Meadow-Lark
o.l633—Give Me a Ukelele (And a
Ukelele Baby)
0.1634 —Sunday
0.1635—My Girl Has Eye Trouble (I
Want This! I Want That!)
0.1639 —She Knows Her Onions
0.1640 —Here Gomes Fatima (With Her
Ta-Ra -Boom-Dee-Ay)
*0.1643 —Bella-Donna (Spanish Six-Eight)
*D,1645 —Oh, Marie !
*0.1656—0h, Sydney I Love You
Waltzes.
D.l63l—Blame it on the Waltz
0.1636 —Danube Waves
0.1638 —Zenda Waltzes
0.1646 —Hawaiian Lullaby
0.1647 —Golden Memories (Of Hawaii)
0.1648 —Drigo’s Serenade
D. 1651 —Drowsy Waters (Wailana)
D. 1653 —Venetian Nights
Marches.
0.1611 —Peace on Earth
0.1612 —Top Notch
0.1616 —Royal Ambassadors
0.1649 —Fire Patrol
o.l6so—March of the Sharpshooters
Ballads.
D. 1621 —Magnolia Blossoms (With Man
dolin Effects) :
1— Swanee River
2 Old Black Joe
3 Turkey in the Straw
4 Marching Through Georgia
5 Sing me a. Song of the South
D. 162 Breath of the South: —
1 — My Old Kentucky Home
2 Old Black Joe
3 Old Folks at Home
4 Massa’s in de Cold, Cold Ground
5 Turkey in the Stfaw
I). 1624—Kiss Me Again (If I Were on
the Stage). Key of A.
*0.1627 —-The Admiral’s Yarn. Key of D.
B to E.
1). 1628 —A Dream of Paradise. Key of F.
C to B.
*0.1629—1 Fear No Foe. Key of C.
G to E.
D. 1662 —Popular Songs of Other Days:—
1— Just One Girl
2 Sidewalks of New York
3 Sweet Rosie o’Grady
4 Annie Rooney
5 Good Old Summer Time
6 Daisy, Daisy
7 Two Little Girls in Blue
8 — After the Ball
Operatic (with Words).
*00.1644 —Duchess of Dantzic (Selection)
*OD.l6s7—Frasquita (Selection)
OBTAINABLE EVERYWHERE.
The Numbers indicated by a star are procurable in “Expression” Rolls also.
MASTERTOUCH
• rtand Played -= /
. ; -?..A\usic Rolls - =
' ' are the -
LATEST and BEST
G. H. Horton & Co., Ltd.
Wholesale Distributors Only, 66 CITY ROAD, SYDNEY^


I
mwmm
rats'
SYDNEY.
The Finest Restaurant and Dance
Rendezvous in Australasia.
PATRONAGE CONTINUALLY INCREASING.
Capacity: Dining and Supper Dances up to rIOO.
For Wedding Receptions, Banquets, Dining and
Supper Dances, inquiries to Manager.
Mon., Tues., Wed., Fri., Dining de Luxe, 7.80,
10/6; Suppers, 10.30, 6/6. Value and satis-
faction without equal. No charge for three
hours’ dancing on satin-smooth spring floors —
a new thrill of real delight.
Thurs. and Sat. I,ate Gala Nights. Continental
Dinner from 7.30, 21/-. Suppers, 10.30. .12/6.
This evening in London costs £2/2/- upwards.
PEERLESS ORCHESTRA OF TEN.
Bewitching Cabaret, afternoons and evenings.
Delightful Afternoon Teas, 3.30 to 5.30, 5/-
Two hours’ entertainment of Sheer Delight.
Order Wines before 6 p.m. Ring M. 3666.
The Convenience
of “Scott’s”
In the heart of the eity, with commanding views and convenient to
trains, trams, steamship wharves and all places of public interest,
“Scott's” is ideal in location and ideal in the service it offers.
Hot- and cold-water service, and both direct and inter-communicating
telephones in all bedrooms.
Scott’s Lounge is Melbourne’s recognised social rendezvous.
Write for
Tariff Card.
I!
Collins Street, Melbourne.
Telegrams <£* Cables:
“Scott's ” Melbourne.
All Rig'ht!
I’ll meet you at
YOUNG $ JACKSON’S
The place of meeting of all men on
business and pleasure.
Standing on MELBOURNE’S most
historic corner, everybody who knows
MELBOURNE knows—
Young & Jackson’s,
on the corner of
Flinders and Swanston Streets.
-who visits MELBOURNE wants to
see the FAMOUS PICTURE GALLERY, in
which is included the world-renowned “Chloe/'
First-class accommodation ior visitors.
Nothing but die best in all liquors.
J. A. SAFE, Prop.
Melbourne
Chatter
Buckley's
Elizabethan
Tea 'Rooms
R[?] C[?] 800[?] [?]
Buckley [?] Nunn [?]
[?]
The question of clothes fox* the winter is
a serious one in Melbourne. When the
weather turns cold no costume or gown
seems warm enough, and out must come top-
coats and fur wraps. This season’s cover-
ing leans to severity of line with deep pleats
only as adornment. Though the fashion is
supposed to favor narrow collars and cult's
of fur, these wide finishes of last winter are
not yet being cast aside. There is nothing
so attractive in sight at present as the femi-
nine sports clothes. Of the smartest cut,
these suits are materialising in varied styles
—charming jumper suits of knitted woollen
nature with additional sleeveless coats; plaid
or check skirts allied to pullover sweaters;
and sac coats finished with neat belts, buckles
or buttons. Striking also again are the
costumes of patterned fabric skirts linked to
black or colored velvet coats like the smoking
jacket of the male. A new material makes
some of the latest sports wear look like velvet
that has been left out in the rain, or was
near the sprinklers when the warehouse had
a lire. It has the shine and thickness of
velvet but appears of looser texture. It looks
rauier well, but the cautious shopper mur-
murs “Will it wear?”
Decorations for the Royal visit are be-
ginning in earnest. Already Collins-street
has innumerable pitfalls in the way of mast-
holes; paint is being applied by sturdy
fellows regardless of expense; pavements
coated with newly-spread tar cling as poor
relations to one’s footsteps; many buildings
present an electrically-wired front to the
world; even Federal Government House is
being touched up with the whitewash brush.
The first building to show the White Rose of
York is a business house in Bourke-street
run by two returned soldiers.
It looks as if the Duchess of York will
have to put aside georgette and crepe de
Chine when she says “Hello, Melbourne,” for
Jack Frost lingered around last week; and
ilie fireside, with its crackling log, was the
cnmfiest place at night. The winter seems
dose at hand, for the leaves of the silver
birch-trees on St. Kilda-road present a golden
face to the world, and in the gardens brooms
are busily sweeping up the fast-falling
foliage. If the Duchess doesn’t hurry the
trees will be mere skeletons, naked and
austere.
Ercildoune, outside Ballarat, where the
Yorks will be introduced to Victorian station
life, has not been vei*y long in the possession
of the Alan Currie couple, who will entertain
the visitors. The Learmonths were the
original owners, and then the property passed
into the hands of A. J. Wilson, who left
Wilson Hall at the University as a memorial
to Ms generosity.
Bishop Winnington Ingram arrived on
Tlitfrsday, and at once began the round of
receptions and meetings. It was a weary
prelate who cheerfully faced a gathering of
the E.S.U. which met in the pallid pink
glow of the Embassy to hrinqr the great
man. Suited and gaitered in- deep purple,
the visitor was welcomed by president Donald
Mackinnon, and, humorously Contemplating
the centrally-cleared space of the dance ren-
dezvous, wondered whether he was expected
to give an exhibition of the Charleston. He
told of his movements since leaving Europe
"ii what was termed a holiday, including
addresses at 22 universities to E.S.U. and
other bodies. The Bishop has a leaning
towards the E.S.U., having been the first
gaiters to give- a garden-party to it; on
that occasion the first h and he clasped was
that of a Melburnian. Papua’s Gov. Murray
was a guest of the evening also,, and Dr.
Brodie, Chief Rabbi of the Jewish commu-
nity here, seconded the vote of s thanks to
the Bishop and Governor- —it was proposed
by American Consul-General Garrels. Much
clerical collar was noticed around the tables,
including his Grace of Melbourne, Canon
and Mrs. Cranswick, the Bishop of Wau-
garatta and Rev. Dr. and Mrs. Law. Pro-
minent E. S. Unioners were Mrs. Donald
Mackinnon, the Harold Clapp couple (she
in pink shot taffeta), secretary Richard
Eipps and his wife, the Ivan Gutmans and
the Masson lady.
There was a fashionable congregation at
St. John’s, Toorak, on Thursday afternoon,
when Dorothy Brooke, daughter of the Goul-
burn Bi'ooke couple, of Glenberie station
IQ.) and Lister House, Collins-street, took
lan Derek Sargood for life-partner. The
church, though wearing Lenten garb of plain
severity, glowed with lovely youth. Looking
like a fairy princess, in a mist of white
"eorgette dripping with silver and a cloud
of tulle bound with orange blossom, the
pretty bride floated to the altar followed by
her particular pals, Nanette Stuart, Betty
Mills and Biddy Tallis, poems of spring, in
apricot crepe georgette and hats to match.
The bridegroom, known to his familiars as
jimmy, is the son of the late Herbert and
Mrs. Sargood, of Toorak; the liable is woven
into the early history of Flinders-lano and
recorded in stone. The young man recently
returned from a world trip.
Lorn a Mclntyre, who runs an acreage
with brother Peter in the Wmclielsea dis-
trict, slipped away to Sydney and kept a
date with Chief-Officer Alexander Mcßride,
of the Cathay, without fuss or special fur-
nishings. pprna is not a social butterfly.
She loves a country life and knows more
about soil values than most men ever will.
Matrimonially linked at Toorak the other
day were Lieut.-Colonel Henry (-row ther ami
Doris Douglas Umphelby, elder daughter ot
the Harold Umphelby couple of Cawood,
Toorak. The bridegroom, a son of the late Dr.
G. H. Crowther, headmaster of the Brighton
Grammar School, was a dominie him-
self. but has retired from tilling the
brain of Aussies’ youth for perhaps the less
irksome and more responsive occupation ot
tilling the land, his acreage being the Lea,
Hillston (N.S.W.). The bride was demurely
clad from neck to ankle and from shoulder
to wrist in cloth of silver, top-dressed with
white chiffon and much tulle veil. Her sister
Eunice and Rosalind Spowers made delightful
harmony in layers of mauve blue georgette
over silver lace, with some silver touches
upon blue felt hats. There were many guests
after the ceremony at. the home of the leading
lady’s parents.
The youngest Miss of the late James
Warne, who lives with her mother at Lppei
Hawthorn, is wearing an engagement token
given her by a Queensland boy, Harold,
second son of J. J. Kingsbury, of Toowong.
Painter Mrs. Elsie Barlow has a show of
water-colors staged in the right surroundings
those of her own studio. Much ot her
recent work was done during a motor-tour
of the Apple Isle. Mrs. J. G. Latham opened
the show, which will last till April o, at
Rusden House, Punt Hill, South Yarra.
Many parents around Toorak and Malvern
voiced genuine regrets when the three Misses
Hamilton announced their intention ot clos-
ing Toorak College, one of the oldest semi-
naries for girls in Melbourne. Having receiv-
ed a splendid offer for tlieir property—it is
in the shade
of Government
House in Glen-
ferrie - road —
they decided to
sell, and se-
cured, as they
thought, suit-
able premises
else w h e r e.
Some hitch
delayed th e
purchase, how-
ever ; then a
number of busi-
ness men who
did not like
'the notion of
letting the old
educational
e s t ablishment
pass out de-
cided to form
a company to
found a mod-
ern seminary in the fashionable seaside resort
of Frankston. While an up-to-date college
is being built temporary premises have been
found in Lansell-road, Toorak, and Miss
Isabel Hamilton, pictured here by Broothorn,
will carry on the scholastic side of the ven-
ture. Toorak College came into being as a
boys’ school in' 1874. About 30 years ago
it was converted into a girls’ college by Miss
Tripp, who later sold it to Miss Ellen Pye.
It has turned out some brilliant students, dis-
tinguished in medicine and science. The
present head and her sisters, daughters of
the late Robert Hamilton, M.A., formerly of
Learmonth, began their career at Alex-
andra College, Hamilton, and took over
Toorak in 1907. The proposed new col-
lege will cover 12 acres of ground; and
the first council includes, besides the busi-
ness' men, 10 women, all Old Girls of Toorak.
It is expected that £40,000 will be raised by
subscriptions and the issue of debentures.
Lady Somers, wearing a navy suit and a
bois-de-rose hat, added to the mementoes
of her reign at State _ Government House
the gold key with which she opened the
new wing for girls of the Brighton Technical
College. The vice-regal visitor was once
more impressed with all the chances and
means that the rising generation gets here
to help it along. A minuet and folk
dances in fancy costumes were given by the
students after the guests had seen how the
wheels go round. The girls boiled the kettle
and made the buns for the afternoon repast.
Lady Somers is proving an efficient chair-
woman. Presiding at the afternoon session of
the Victoria League Conference, held last
week at the V.L. headquarters, the lady s
interest was pleasant to sec, and she had some
practical suggestions to offer. Delegates
reported excellent progress in country dis-
tricts, where women’s institutes affiliated to
the V.L. have brought new interests and
social intercourse to many bush-dwellers.
Miss Chisholm, of the Emily McPherson
College, stepped in during the afternoon to say
a word or two of such movements in Canada,
known there under the name of rural clubs.
Yarra Golf Club will hit off the first tee
for the season on April 27. For the ladies
doubles two trophies have been presented by
the president. Mrs. G. Brboke-Hutcliings.
The good-looking lady is also scattering
invitations for the afternoon’s refreshment,
which will have a decorative setting.
Three women were among the candidates
in Westralia on Saturday, but the only
member of the sex standing for election in
Victoria on April 9 is Florence Johnson,
here portrayed; she is putting up in the
Labor interest at St. Kilda. A native of Mel-
bourne, Miss Johnson is well-known in all
women’s move-
ments ; v she
was a teacher
in the Educa-
tion Depart-
me n t for
nearly 19
years, and is
at present sec-
retary of the
feminine Tea-
chers’ Ass. In
this capacity
she led a depu-
tation which
wanted to
know from the
Minister why
certain teach-
ers had not
been deputed
to train the
children for
the big parade
when the Duke
and Duchess come along. The lady is a
member of the executive of the National
Council of Women. She learned her femi-
nism at the feet of Vida Goldstein, who was
the leading spirit in the Woman’s Political
Association long ago.
A capacity audience re welcomed Maurice
Moscovitch and son Nat Madison on Satur-
day night at the King’s in the unpleasant
play “They Knew What They Wanted.
Wreaths of the leaf of the laurel well gilt
and silvered were tributes to these actors
popularity; and the clever leading lady, Kllcn
Pollock, carried off many blooms m baskets
and sheaves when Moscovitch _ breathed
thanks for the success of the piece. The
one-scene setting of a living-room in a farm-
house in California, with glimpses of sur-
rounding vineyards, is attractive, streamers,
Chinese lanterns and a wedding-cake being
additional effects for the Italian festa accom-
panying the nuntials of Tony and Amy. The
bride’s sweet filmy white frock girdled with
silver tissue, and with a tulle veil, is the
only bit of feminine finery of note. There
must have been a mighty slaughter of white
rabbits of late, judging from the wrappings
seen in the d.c. and r.s. Littleton Groom and
his lady, Mr. and Mrs. Arthur Moore (she
wore a silver-grey velvet cloak over a steel
embroidered gown), the 11. I. Cohens, Mrs.
Montague Cohen, Mrs. Douglas Stewart
(with gold and pink roses strewn upon a bro-
caded wrap) and the Sol Greens were
present.
The plain talk of “Measure for Measure ’
didn’t seem to scandalise anyone in the
large audience of Saturday at the Princess,
for all laughed joyously at the naughty
quips, and chortled on their ho’meward jour-
ney, too. Mrs. Allan Wilkie wore the parch-
ment-tinted robes and flowing veil of the
novice Isabella; and Lorna Forbes, the Mari-
ana of the moated grange, had gold lace de-
pending from her tall head-dress, falling
over draperies of brocade in tones of blue
and green. Dulcie Cherry’s fair coiffure,
much puffed, appeared above a dull gold
cloak and raiment in the role of Juliet,
who slipped. The sable velvet garb of
Angelo Allan Wilkie contrasted with the
gorgeous and gaily-plumaged Duke and other
gallants, whose attire must have caused tail-
ors of those days most anxious moments.
The Melbourne Music Club was the only
one of the city’s numerous musical societies
and coteries that got its tribute to
Beethoven’s centenary in on time. Friday
night saw a full house at the Victorian
Artists’ Society’s Galleries, with Fritz Hart
breezily and interestingly chatting about
the Great One. Louise Gargurevich played
admirably the Sonata in D Minor, the only
regret being that the piano was not more
worthy of the master and the interpreter—at
times there was decided magneto trouble and
suspicious jangling within the bonnet. Gert-
rude Healy, and Ida Scott added with honors
the Romance for Violin and Piano in F
Major.
That the Melbourne public has still time
to listen to some of its own local talent
was shown by the large audience and intelli-
gent reception given to those two youthful
musicians, Cecil Parkes and May Broderick,
at the Assembly Hall on Thursday night.
The violinist, whose work has matured won-
derfully of late, did some notable playing
in the great Beethoven C Minor Sonata,
well backed by the pianist, whose rose-pink
gown, with a crystal-scattered blossom
perched on one shoulder, melted into a back-
ground of blue curtains and bowls of pink
flowers. Cecil didn't forget to say "Thank
you” publicly to Mrs. Itichard Fitclier.
who lent an artistic hand in decorating the
platform.
Mrs. .Timmy Dyer had to hurry off from
a State Government House dinner to say
“Thank you” for flowers and farewells
handed oVer by the old collegians of the
Presbyterian Ladies’ College, to their depart-
ing president. A reading of Edith Bishop’s
essay on “Migration,” which gained the
Rupert Brooke prize founded by the
P.L.C.0.C., was an item of the evening's
entertainment.
Nellie Stewart, in raiment of eau-de-nil
hue and shady millinery, joined a tea-
drinking at the Ambassadors which brought
in some coin for the Fitzroy Creche. Nell
stepped from out the rain laden with a
big doll for the children and an autographed
photograph to cheer the walls of the insti-
tution. The actress received a welcoming
posy of pink blooms, and a packed house gave
her glad greeting. The energetic organisers
were Mrs. P. Lucini, Mrs. ,T. Dwyer and Mrs.
M. Hunter; they had strong support in run-
ning auctions and raffles. During lulls in
conversation and business deals, Mrs. 8.
Herman, Marie Levy and Effie Wall lifted
voices in song; Amy Lucini played some
pianoforte pieces; Edgar Veitch recited and
the Brassey Allen Quartette also lent aid,
Hilda Williams being accompanist. Among
tlie visitors were Nellie Stewart’s sister Doey.
who is Madame Chamboissier, and Mrs. T.
Foley. Fitzroy’s mayoress.
The annual recording of the Arts and
Crafts Society is to take the form of an at-
home at headquarters. 323 Bourke-street, on
Friday, April 8. Painter and etcher Jessie
Traill will illustrate the fine art of advertis-
ing by means of posters collected by her at
Wembley.
As Monday, April 4, is a public holiday,
the gift afternoon for stocking the Austral
Salon’s stall at the Blind Institute fete is
moved on to Tuesday. Fancy articles,
novelties, pot plants, sweets and so forth
are wares required.
From all sources come offers of help to-
wards raising funds for the building and
equipping of the hostel for blind women
workers. In connection with the Diamond
jubilee Fair, engineered by Mrs. Jim Angus
for April 8 and 9, T. M. Burke has donated
a block of land; the Belgian Lamberts have
volunteered as their contribution a combined
recital at Ormond Hall on April 14. Edouard
Lambert, violinist, and his young pianist
son are established popular soloists here; and
Madame Lambert is credited with a grand-
opera reputation in Brussels.
“Rose Marie” Harriet Bennet has had a
worrying time of late, for a few days ago
her mother was obliged to enter Mt. St.
Evins Hospital. The patient is doing well,
and is feeling quite like a leading lady,
since her room blooms with early autumn
flowers. Mrs. Glasgow, a sister of Mrs.
Bennet, came across from ’Murca lately to
companion both her niece and the invalid
during the trying period.
Members of the just-revived Australian
Ladies’ Kennel Club will comb and curl then-
pet bow-wows for a show early in May, when
the gate-money will be earmarked for the
Children's Hospital. Mrs. E. 11. Davidson is
president and chairwoman, and the Lauchic
Mackinnon lady, Eileen Heinze and Miss
Patterson, who is hon. sec., are new associ-
ates.
Vera C. Jennings has returned covered
with honors and resumed her old post
as resident English tutor at Janet
Clarke Hall, Trinity. Students have ac-
corded her a welcome suitable to such
a learned young thing. The three years
spent abroad acquiring final honors and
much lettering were put in at St. Hilda's
College; and Oxford conferred the degree.
Miss jennings graduated at our local Cni-
versity, and was a student at Trinity, which
will now profit by the learning of a former
girl grad.
Melbourne is promised something ultra-
smart in eating-houses early next mouth.
The second floor of Nicholas Buildings in
Swanston-street is the place where food de.
luxe will be found all day and after the
theatres close up to any old hour, right in
sight of St. Paul’s.
Fdward Cahill and George Brooke put on
two evening concerts and a matinee last week,
as farewell to Melbourne prior to taking their
talents to the U.S. A. On the first occasion they
had the support of the Victorian Railways
Institute orchestra, under the baton of the
new conductor, Arthur Belcher. The pianist
was heard in conjunction with orchestra in
Weber's "Concertstuck.” and the baritone
sang “Au Pays” and “The Trumpeter” with
similar assistance.


Windproof, Rainproof
Leather Motor Coat,
£B/8/- at Peapes’.
y
$
/
\ur
Tr
A
A
A Special
Importation
for the Netu
Season.
The increasing
vogue of the
leather motor*
coat has been
amply provided
for by Peapes’
selection of
smart new goods
for Autumn and
Winter this year.
This particular
coat is of Dark
Brown yearling
leather —particu-
larly soft yet
durable.
Smartly cut in
double - breasted
Raglan style, it
allows ample
freedom at the wheel while affording the wearer perfect
protection from cold and rain.
Though so strong, it is of light weight, thus overcoming
the one objection ever raised against these most service-
able motor coats.
PEAPES PAY POSTAGE.
Please state height and chest measurements.
PEAPES & Co., LTD.
Men’s and Boys* Outfitters,
GEORGE STREET (opp. Hunter Street) SYDNEY.
Peapes ’ Pipes, natural briar, silver mounted,
all shapes, 14/6 each.
rw
:> m
Iftil
Sm-
wm»
mm
m
/<
W-.
W'
m
S'
%
y,
v'./AW/',,'
'"■y'A/W'"
'it#-.* '■s£s&
m
s?
m
w,
///>.
K'A
m.
vs/.
V
V‘
jkm
«s
TIME-KEEPING accuracy and life-time service
combined with peerless beauty of design and
workmanship, are the virtues that have won for
“ROLEX” a reputation for pre-eminence the world
over . . . On the wrist or in the pocket “Rolex”
Watches tick out the time with minute precision, and
once you have made the wise investment, you can
rest assured that your “watch worries” are over
FOR LIFE . . . “ROLEX” FOR RELIABILITY.
Kill I \
Wrist and Pocket Watches
MADE FOR MEN AND WOMEN * *
u
SOLD BY ALL LEADING JEWELLERS
te-
P
LAFFARGUE
and
VICTOR
ř
NATURAL EXPRESSION
PLAYER PIANOS
A new departure in the construction of Player Pianos and Rolls. The Natural
Expression Rolls have been played by skilled Pianists, and their exact playing is
faithfully recorded with every shade of phrasing and expression, together with
crescendos and diminuendos as intended by the composer.
Can you imagine anything finer than a classic of Beethoven played by an eminent
pianist? This and hundreds of other rolls, including Dance, Vocal and Jazz items,
in your home at a moment’s notice.
These truly wonderful Players can be bought on Easy Terms. We will take your
used Piano in exchange and allow you its full value.
WRITE FOR FULL PARTICULARS. CATALOGUES FREE.
338 George Street,
Sydney.
r
206-210 Pitt Street
(next Lyceum Theatre)


ROYAL AGRICULTURAL SOCIETY OF NEW SOUTH WALES.
Royal Easter Show
11th TO 20th APRIL, 1927.
NINE DAYS. FIVE NIGHTS.
£14,000 PRIZES - - - £14,000
Finest Show of Stock in the Commonwealth.
Magnificent Display of Agricultural and Primary Products.
Most Attractive Ring Events.
Grounds and buildings brilliantly illuminated by Electricity on Five Nights.
Spacious Halls of 110,000 square feet floor space for the display of
Machinery, Manufactures and Motor-cars.
Magnificent and Commodious Grandstands, providing every comfort, convenience
and accommodation, unsurpassed anywhere.
60,000 Persons can view, from the ringside alone, the Greatest
Spectacular Panorama of Events provided' in any part of the world.
Lectures on Stock Raising, Scientific and Practical Agriculture, and on Topics of
Everyday Interest to all Classes of the Community delivered hy Experts and those
best qualified in the new Lecture Hall, back of Poultry Pavilion, day and night.
GRAND MUSICAL PROGRAMME DAY AND NIGHT.
Admission: Outer Gates—Day Adults, 2/-; Children, 6d.
Night. . . . Adults, 2/-; Children, 6d.
PARKING AREA FOR MOTOR-CARS WITHIN THE GROUND.
Endeavour House, G. 0. SOMERVILLE,
33 Macquarie Place, Sydney. Secretary.
PROSPECTUS
OF
New Hope Gold Mining Company
(No Liability).
(To be registered under Part 2of the Companies Act of New South Wales.)
CAPITAL £lO,OOO
1
Divided into 10,000 Shares of £1 each, of which
2,000 Shares will be issued as fully paid to Johannes Heinrich, Promoter
of the Company, as stated below.
2.500 Vendors.
5.500 Shares are now being offered for public subscription on the
following terms: Payable 10/- per share on application; 10/-
per share on allotment; 2,500 of these are already taken up.
10,000
A.
PERMANENT DIRECTOR:
VINCENT, Engineer, 8 Goldengrovo Street,
Redfern,
Sydney.
PROVISIONAL DIRECTORS :
.T. HEINRICH, Director, Victorian Yalwa Gold Mining Company, Valval.
,T. REICHELT, Company Director, Yahval, New South Wales.
BANKERS:
AUSTRALIAN BANK OF COMMERCE, LIMITED.
SOLICITOR:
HAROLD MANION, Nowra, New South Wales.
SECRETARY:
REUBEN KING, A.F.1.A., A.A.1.5., Nowra, New South Wales.
AUDITORS:
(To be appointed.)
Objects.
The Company is being formed to carry on the business of Gold Mining, and for this
purpose to acquire from Johannes Heinrich his option over certain Mining Leases known
as Private Lands Lease Number 1894, 25 acres, and Private Lands Lease Number 1895,
20 acres, situated in the Parish of Seymour, County of St. Vincent, both dated 29th May,
1925, which Leases are for twenty years.
To work and develop the three valuable reefs known as Browns, Banner and the
Lady Belmore, at Bell’s Creek, near BraVlwood, New South Wales, and to erect a 10-head
battery on the Banner Mine.
Leases and Ore Reserves
There are some 3000 tons ready for stoping. The average of 47 samples taken out
of this mine disclosed, on analysis, 2 ounces sdwt. per ton.
Average analysis of 39 samples taken by Alfred Vincent, Engineer, of Redfern,
Sydney, from the Banner Mine was 3 ounces 12dwt. per ton. A shaft has been sunk
on this reef 255 feet, and two levels, one at 160 feet and another at 240 feet, the sump
15 feet lower, and at the bottom gives an assay of 8 ounces 15dwt.; both levels haw
been driven along reef 180 feet east, the bottom level as well as the top showing good
values. The country rock is granite. Average width of reef is 12 inches.
About 200 yards west of main shaft seven samples taken eight feet apart give an
average of 3 ounces 4dwt. 15gr.; there is a shoot 56 feet long.
The 240-foot level samples were taken every ten feet apart; it will be seen by assay
on plan that there are no blanks and one gave an assay of 9 ounces 4dwt. 6gr.
Assays of the bulking of 47 samples concentrates, 43 ounces lOdwt. per ton.
These leases are right on the divide of the Great Alluvial Flats, Jembaicumbene.
and Araluen, therefore these reefs must have a great future ahead, where 90,000,000
pounds sterling of alluvial gold has already been won.
For further information, see or write to Inspector James, Department of Mines,
Sydney, who has been down the mine and has seen the lield.
The investor can rest assured that this is a sound investment. The company will
not be registered until £3OOO is subscribed. This will ensure completion of plant. The
mine will be under sound management. When plant is complete, Mr. R. J. Larsen, A.S.
of Mines, Bendigo, Vic., will be mines manager. He is well known to most mining men.
CUT OUT THIS COUPON AND POST NOW.
To REUBEN KING, A.F.1.A., A.A.1.5., Secretary, Nowra, N.S.W.
Please forward me a prospectus of the New Hope Gold Mining Company.
NAME ..
ADDRESS
THE LITTLE SISTERS.
QUEENSLAND.
Brisbane.
The Duke-hungry world has been notified
that the Government House book has been
withdrawn from its customary possie, as
not more than "half of those who have signed
it can possibly be squeezed into the building
where the vice-regal ball will be held. The
Koval train is at the moment being given a
preliminary canter, and electricians are furi-
ously busy all over the city. In the mean-
time there is some outcry from the suburbs
about the jungle growth of grass on the
footpaths.
The Lieut.-Governor presided over the
meeting of the Bush Nursing Association, with
Mrs. E. S. Jackson, president, and Mayor
jolly to help. The council now controls nine
centres. Over 16,000 patients were attended
during the past year, and more than 1800 visits
paid to people in their homes.
Rain has interfered with play at the Royal
golf links, but there was a good roll-up
of members at the reception to the presi-
dent's wife, Mrs. George Brown, and daugh-
ters Nancy and Miriam, who are just back
from the Cold Country. Orient-hucd dahlias
decked the tables, and the president of the
associate-members, Mrs. W. F. Coe, did the
welcoming. Mrs. Brown wore bois-de-rose
and a black velour hat. Miriam Brown was
in beige-crepe with a felt cloche; Nancy in
Hame-colored crepe dc Chine with black felt
cloche. The secretary, Mrs. Gerald Ander-
son, has just gone off to the Islands on the
Mataram. A brooch and sleevelinks, bearing
the chib’s badge, were presented to her at
the close of her four years’ penning. Jessie
(Jibson and Ruth Tilston went to the Solo-
mons with her.
In St. Stephen’s, at Toowoomba, Canon
Reid, of Dalby, joined the hands of Falkiner
Hewson, son of the iate F. M. Hewson, to
Jean Alison Grant, the General’s younger
daughter, whose pretty sister Mary, now
Mrs. Sword, was one of Prince Edward's
favorite dancing partners. The bride, who
was given away by father, was in silver
moire, the straight, sleeveless bodice van-
dyked on a wide skirt with flat silver roses
at the liem; a buckle of French brilliants at
the waist. The Limericlc-lace train, lined
with shell-pink, was lent by Mrs. H. Mort.
The white tulle veil had a coronet of orange
blossom, and water-lilies and tuberoses made
the bridal bouquet. Helen Hewson (Eng.).
Freda Stewart and Phyllis Billington ’maided
iu ’broidered white georgette over pink, with
girdles of sliell-pink ribbon and long-stemmed
pink roses at the shoulder. On their heads
were Russian bandeaux, in pink and silver,
and white and pink roses were carried. Gen-
eral and Mrs. Grant received some 60 guests
at the Club Hotel: gold and flame dahlias
and zinnias decked the lounge, and pink
and white roses dressed the drawing-room
for the breakfast. Mrs. Grant, in black
georgette, wore a fringed shawl broidered in
roses and carried red roses. Mrs. R. Sword,
Longreacli, wore silver lace veiled in blue,
with a white crepe-de-Chine shawl, broidered
in pink. Mrs. Frank Hewson, Charleville,
wore lettuce-green, with a cape-coat of
ermine and black hat.
Popular Ernest Lissner, whose “well-liket”
face has long been a feature at theatre first
nights, died after a short illness in Holy-
wood private hospital. Illness overtook him
at the races. He was a son of Mcllwraith’s
Minister for Mines, and was not much over
■lO. In his working hours he was on the
Stock Exchange.
Heart failure carried off Mrs. M. Ryan,
wife of a well-known grazier and sportsman.
She was cider daughter of the Mackenzies
of Blackall, and has brothers and other
kinsfolk squatting all over Queensland,
AVith four bonnie boys and a handsome
wife, F. Curr went off by the Nestor to
Africa, bound for Nairobi, where he will
settle on the land. He belongs to a family
of hard-doers ; he himself is a noted buffalo-
hunter. Grandfather Curr was the first man-
ager of the old Yan Diemen’s Land Company
and a sturdy R.C., who was foremost in giv-
ing Hobart its first Catholic church.
D. Wells, younger son of the E. S. Wellses,
of Sydney, took charge of Florence Martin,
in St. Paul’s, the Rev. J. Walker aiding and
abetting. The bride, in ivory mariette, beaded
in silver, was given away by her father.
The silk tulle veil was worn with orange
blossom; and white rosebuds and stephanotis
made the bouquet. Winnie Smith and Nita
Knudsen ’maided in shell-pink.
Several traycloths have been spread for
pretty Phyllis Brown, who is soon to marry
Fred Derrick. At one. in the Eastern
lounge at Lennon’s, with Mrs. Sullivan as
hostess, a kewpie bridal-party was among
the decorations.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA.
Adelaide.
The week has moved chiefly to an accom-
paniment of Rotarians and farewells. For
the former, here in conference, the chief
frivols were dancing at ,the Glenelg Palais,
ii garden-party at the P. J. Lawrences, at
Mount Lofty-—he is the Adelaide president
—and a reception at the TJrrbrae Agricul-
tural College, where Mrs. Richardson did
the honors single-handed, Professor Richard-
son being in Melbourne. At the Palais,
where local Rotarians were hosts, the flowers
were amazing masses of gladioli, coral and
scarlet and flesh-colored, springing from beds
of petunias and stocks, and on the supper-
tables more stocks and ragged mauve
dahlias.
Mrs. Lawrence and her daughter, bound
over-seas next month, have themselves been
guests of honor: the hostess was Miss Edith
Alexander, and the programme tea-drinking
at the Wentworth. There have been croquet
club farewells, too —to cattle-king Kidman's
lady (she sailed with her sovereign in the
Euripides), at Unley. and to Mrs. Ellis
Smith, the Croquet Association’s president,
also booked for Europe.
The Hunt Club lias had its annual meet-
ing, given an excellent account of itself for
last year, and reinstated Mr. F. W. Whyte
as president and Paul Teesdale Smith as
master.
The estate of the late Dr. M. .T. Symons,
sworn at £41,000. goes to his widow.
The Guy Makins gave a dance and dinner
as a farewell to the Kenneth Duftiohls the
Bight before they sailed for England.
Ada Wordie, one of the best-known of
Adelaide songstresses and one of the most
generous in the cause of charities, is now
Mrs. L. It. Barker; both he and she are
pillars of the Methodist Church.
WE STRATA A.
Perth.
Miss C. Crichton Imrie, formerly of M.L.
and Sydney, now of Savoy House, Condon, is
in Perth, where endless parties are being
held in her honor. She was also the guest of
the W.A. Government at Cave House and
on a visit to the sights of the district. Miss
Imrie has continued the good work she did
in London of helping to increase the imports
into Britain of our products, and has visited
all our factories. After travelling in the
other States in pursuance of her mission,
she will return via South Africa.
“Oh, I Say,” produced for the W.A.
Society of Concert Artists, has been a great
success. For the first time the society quitted
musical for straight comedy. The excellent
presentation of the highly amusing French
farce makes His Majesty’s resound for eight
nights with peals of laughter. The movement
of the play is at times so rapid that it
leaves the audience gasping with puckered
brow trying to remember who’s in the bath-
room now, the bride or the best man, and
how many people are hidden in the broom-
cupboard. Honors went to Dr. Donald Smith,
who is coveted by theatrical managers and
promised jam witli his bread and butter if
he will forsake his X-ray machinery for the
footlights. Miss Doris Gilliam (Mrs. Millard)
played excel leutly the trying part of the
bride’s interfering and hysterical mother.
Mrs. Cowan, on behalf of the National
Council of Women, entertained Mrs. Henry
Dobson at the Karrakatta Club. Mrs. Dob-
son, who has passed her 84tli milestone,
founded the Tasmanian branch of the
National Council of Women, and since the
first congress, held in Chicago in 1890, has
attended every congress—in London, Berlin,
Toronto, Rome, Christiania (now Oslo) and
Washington. A charming personality, a bril-
liant conversationalist, she has probably
travelled as extensively as any woman
of her time. Accompanied by her two daugh-
ters she is en voyage to Geneva, where the
next conference will be held during June.
Mrs. Rose Atkinson organised an after-
noon at the Repertory Club to give Perth
presswomen an opportunity of meeting Miss
Clelia Genoni. This young Westralian-born
singer spent four and a half years in Milan,
where Palini trained her beautiful soprano.
She gives recitals in April.
The Mooltan brought Margaret Gavan
Duffey back from Ceylon, where she was the
guest of Mr. and Mrs. Bridge on a rubber
estate out of Colombo. Mrs. Bridge is a
sister of Katharine Susanna Prichard, the
authoress. Hugo Throssell, Y.C., Katharine’s
husband, recently joined a well-knowm S.
Australian firm of property agents.
TASMANIA.
Hobart.
(Jt course, w r e are all agog over the visit
of the Duke and Duchess. The usual argu-
ments and controversies have raged, and are
raging, baca and forth—whether the public
reception shall take place in St. David’s
Park, with its beautiful band rotunda and
its space for every humble citizen, or in
Franklin-square, where a certain exclusive-
ness can be attained; whether the ball shall
take place in the City Hall, which holds
thousands, or in the Town Hall, which holds
only hundreds; whether the Victoria League
alone shall have the high privilege of decid-
ing who shall, and who shall not, be the
debutantes. Some of us are getting as much
interest and entertainment out of these argu-
ments as we can ever hope for out of the
visit itself.
A present is to be sent to the little Prin-
cess Elizabeth from Tasmanian children. It
is to take the form of a set of bedroom fur-
niture made from specially-selected black-
wood. And if unkind people say we only
seek advertisement- —well, we can reply that
we need it.
Women here are making ready for two
conferences —the Pan-Pacific Women's Con-
ference, to be held in Honolulu in 1928, and
the Inter-State Conference of the Australian
Federation of Women’s Societies for Equal
Citizenship, which meets in Sydney in May
this year. For the former the National Coun-
cil of Women has already appointed its dele-
gates, Mrs. Dobson, Mrs. Stourton and Miss
Jay. For the Inter-State Conference 12 women
will represent the Tasmanian Non-Party
League, the local affiliated body. The two
questions which the Non-Party League in-
tends to bring forward are the alarming
death-rate amongst Australian mothers, and
the need for training every girl in the Com-
monwealth for home-making.
Captain Charley Bean, the war historian,
has been on a visit to his people, and whilst
here gave an address at Toe H, which drew
a big number of hearers.
We have recovered from the excitement of
Dame Nellie’s visit, but it shook little Hobart
up considerably. A big crowd turned up at
the City Hall to pay homage to the great.
Diva, who appeared in all the bravery of
the celebrated diamonds, but wearing an all-
too-sliort frock which drew all eyes away
from them. There was one queer little hitch
in the proceedings. When his Ex. and party
appeared, no one was ready with the National
Anthem, and when this omission was repaired
two verses were gone through, reminding one
of someone’s estimate of the Russians in
action —“They begin too late and they go on
too long.” An original note had been struck
in the stage decorations, which took the
form of a garden, a path in the centre, in
which the singers stood, being flanked by
masses of gladioli in every shade. The
baritone and the pianist were both excellent,
and of course John Lemmone brought his
own welcome.
Things have changed in the life of a whaler
since the days of Moby Dick; and we shall
go to see the Sea, Beast on the movies with
quickened interest since w T e know something
of present-day whaling conditions from the
fleet which returned to the Derwent this
week. The ships are quite comfortably
equipped nowadays. Captain Gjertsen. com-
mander of the N.T. Neilsen-Alonso. made a
speech at the function arranged in his honor
by the Hobart Marine Board, and gave the
men he had picked up here great praise for
their freedom from work-shyness and their
general cheerfulness and competence.


ARCHITECTS, ARTISTS, DESIGNERS,
DRAUGHTSMEN & OFFICE USE.
mm
BRITISH
MADE
Perfection
ritsk: rubber.
Amusements.
£ YDNE Y’S CHIEF THEATRES.
J. C. WILLIAMSON, LTD., present
HER MAJESTY’S: H.M.S. PINAFORE.
CRITERION: SIX-CYLINDER LOVE.
ROYAL: TELL ME MORE.
PALACE: THE OLD ADAM.
3YD N E Y’S BEST SHO W S.
Direction Sir Benjamin Fuller & Mr. John Fuller.
ST. JAMES: THE BIG PARADE.
FULLERS’ THEATRE:
FULLERS’ VAUDEVILLE.
PICKARDS’ TIVOLI THEATRES.
Lessees: Harry Rickards' Tivoli Theatres, Ltd.
MELBOURNE and SYDNEY.
TWICE EVERY DAY—2.3O and 8.
CELEBRITY VAUDEVILLE.
The World’s Best.
yyiRTH BROS. LIMITED.
Governing Directors: Messrs. Philip & George Wirth.
THE GREATEST SHOW ON EARTH.
THIS YEAR’S ALL NEW PROGRAMME
Bewilders the Audience with its THRILLS,
VARIETY and NOVELTY ACTS that stagger the
Imagi nation.
HIPPODROME, Haymarket, Sydney,
at 8 p.m.
Matinees Saturdays, Wednesdays and Holidays.
J.
WILLIAMSON, LTD.,
ILBOURNE ATTRACTIONS
HIS MAJESTY’S: ROSEMARIE.
KING’S THEATRE:
IHEY KNEW WHAT THEY WANTED.
THEATRE ROYAL:
COMMENCING SATURDAY NEXT:
TEA FOR THREE.
|"HE ALLAN WILKIE SHAK
SPEAREAN PRODUCTIONS
VICTORIAN SEASON:
Melbourne.—PßlNCESS THEATRE, to April 8.
Sydney Manager: J. V. De Batyn.
Head Office: Pulsford’s Chambers, 178 Castlereagh St
table and Telegraphic Address: “Othello,” Syuney
G.P.O. Box 2229 LL.
ATHEN J 3 U M THEATRE,
MELBOURNE.
Proprietor: Frank Talbot Pty., Ltd.
Lessee: E. J. Carroll.
EVERY EVENING AT 8.15.
E. J. CARROLL presents
the ghost train.
LAUGHABLE COMEDY WITH A THRILL.
Played by E. J. Carroll’s London Comedy Company.
N KW BIJOU THEATRE, MELBOURNE
Twice Daily, 2.30 and 8.
PHIL SMITH REVUE CO.
Popular Prices. Plan Cen. 3251.
|V| UTESTIC THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
CLIVE BROOK, PATSY RUTH MILLER,
in
WHY GIRLS LEAVE HOME.
Box Plan at Allan’s & Theatre. ’Phone 7076 & 7790.
H () T’S D E LUXE THEATRE
MELBOURNE. ’
ELINOR GLYN’S GREAT PRODUCTION
LOVE’S BLINDNESS.
Ar.so
COR] NX K GRIFFITHS in
SYNCOPATING SUE.
Prices as usual.
CARLYONS’ BALLROOM
ESPLANADE, ST. KILDA.
A 14 YEARS* LEASE,
including
Plant, Furniture, Fittings,
will be offered at Auction on
Tuesday, April 5.
TLRMS; £lOOO cash, £l5OO within 14 days,
balance over io years.
PERCY HENRY", Auctioneer,
Jo 2 Collins Street, Melbourne.
Missing Friends.
WILLIAM HARRY HARRISON, or any-
one knowing his address, kindly writ,'
Mrs. L. Harrison. Tinana, Maryborough, Q.
The
Bids
for
Him
J
ma y not start on the right level, but thev will finish
on the right basis if he is offered at Wincheombe,
Carson’s sale.
The firm’s determination as stock salesmen never
swerves from that goal. And Wincheombe, Carson
nave the energy, skill and experience to constantly
reach it. For highest prices—
CONSIGN SHEEP, LAMBS AND CATTLE TO
WINCHCOMBE, CARSON
Homebush Yards,
Sydney.
JL* JL MJ •
or Enoggera Yards,
Brisbane.
LTD
Short - Story Writing.
One of the most widely known Editors and
Journalists in Australia, at present conducting
a leading magazine, has prepared
A COURSE
which will set all beginners in the
Art of Short-Story Writing
on the road to earning cheques Here and
Overseas. For particulars apply
AUSTRALIAN AUTHORS’
LITERARY AGENCY,
Bank of Australasia Chambers,
28 Bond Street, Sydney.
Cnticura Talcum Is
Cooling And Comforting
Daily use of this pure, fragrant,
antiseptic Talcum Powder helps to
overcome heavy perspiration and is
soothing and refreshing to the skin.
Soap Is., Talcum 15.3 d., Ointmentls. and
2s. For sample Soap and Ointment ad-
dress: “R.Towns & Co., Sydney ,N.S.W.”
Cuticura Shaving Stick Is. 6d. |
r
a
ror odd jobs
in the home-use
RIPOLIN
An enamel which will
dry hard, with a
very beautiful lustre,
IS ALWAYS OF INTEREST.
THE various colors of Ripolin make
it possible to use it on many dif-
ferent articles to suit the particular
taste of the owner.
Ripolin has many virtues. It is easily
cleaned, and stays fresh-looking. Kitchen
walls, dressers, chairs, also bathrooms,
baths, and all woodwork throughout
the home are always attractive when
Ripolined.
Procurable from practically all paint
distributors.
Write or telephone for Color Card.
Booklet, etc., to
L. A. CORMACK,
(Factory Rep.),
4 Underwood St., Sydney.
(off 35 Pitt St.), Telephone 83284.
Inter-State Agents:—
BRISBANE: S. J. Squires & Co.,
171 Elizabeth Street.
MELBOURNE: Standard Agencies Ptv., Ltd.,
379 Flinders Street!
ADELAIDE: Clarkson, Ltd.,
122 Rundlo Street.
Missing Friends.
tTRNEST LORAINE DOBSON, son of
L -' Joseph Dobson, late of Brighton, Vic-
toria, or his wife Ellen, or any of his child-
ren, advantage communicate HEDDER-
WICK, FOOKES & ALSTON, Solicitors,
103 William Street, Melbourne.
Answers to Correspondents.
No notice (except of a hostile character) will bt
taken of communications insufficiently stamped.
Name, and address must appear on the MS. No
liability is undertaken re contributions volun-
tarily submitted; and no MS. will be returned
unless stamps accompany.
1.M.5.: It died in the office-boy’s arms.
. ...J.R.P.: Drivel.... Cal G.: Not poetry; pottery.
... .H.B-L.: Invitation to stroll “to old familiar
spots” declined; there's no refreshment in your
“spots”.... J.G.J.: One has a rough chance. But why
import your ideas? D.K.P.: Pretty little story;
sent to Mntaoß... .Vincent B.: Dreadful. If you want
to write verse, study form. ...Velo: Not quite; but
keep 0n... .Will L. (Redfern) : The alarm-clock rang
on your dream of ecstasy Bill G. M.: “The sun
went down with solemn boom” is an impressive line
to secure the “tomb” rhyme... .A.O. (Auckland):
Neat; but while a story may be a lie a lie is not
necessarily a story T.R.R.; The fabric of your
dream, which starts well, fades out at the end....
Douglas McA.: The verses tangle their feet, and
some of the rhymes are dreadful.... Gordon J.: A
chaotic fragment C.T.D.: Gets nowhere....
H.G.8.; Why the variation in rhyming form?....
Paul C.: We prefer you out of your misery....
D.L.; Slight stuff, padded out. Try re-writing the
lover’s oath in about 14 lines, not 40, leaving out
the thee-ing and thou-ing... .1.A.5.: Very weak....
Gordon P.: Why make your gum-trees tyrants ; and
what do the last two lines mean ?.... Corinda C.:
No great promise... .M.R.C.: It’s a jerky affair....
G.D.: Doesn’t even resemble a story... .F.E.C.F.:
It’s a slight story for all that padding... .McC.M.:
Take, oh take, your “Lips” away... .H.F.8.: Your
habit of leaving nouns without verbs is tiresome....
Moore R.: Percival was pipped on the post....
F. : Building up an elaborate love story merely
to drop the dressed-up hero in the creek is waste of
effort.... Doris G.; No religion ? Our religion is to
produce a bright paper Dave R.: “Trousers”
clumsily tailored H.D.W.8.: Unsuitable Della
C. ; A single sentence of 300 words is a sentence
of death... .W.H.C.J.: Your “gentleman’s” one
accomplishment seems an ability to quote a few lines
of Omar.... J.F.B. (Balldale) : Verse goes lame here
and there... .M.A.S.: Not tartly enough t01d....
Israel: Yours is not a pleasant “Surprise” Dorothy
D. : Ran very close J.V.O’L.: Glad to hear your
shark “knows no pillow onward through the spray.”
Come to think of it, a shark wouldn’t know even
that “pillow” rhymes with “billow”... .G.R.P. : The
men who write on both sides are bad enough ; you
writhe on both sides... .E.J. (E. Melb.): Your
“Freedom” shrieked, and in the basket fe11....
D.A.G.; Can’t give you a run for our money....
P.R.N.: Your picnic at which nothing happens is
too, too thrilling.... Geo. N.: We can’t miss this
pathetic fragment:—
And whilst I do my own housework ;
Which for. long years. she did not shirk,
And whilst the chops are frying;
And even whilst I drink my beer,
I needs must think, and drop a tear,
About my loved one dying.
....Phil M.: We liked your “sturdy son of the
bush” who said “Gadzooks!” and “Yes, zur”
G. : Some of your lines are like sore-footed
centipedes... .Gil G.; We took “Shy” as a com-
mand. It was shied into the w.p.b P.R.P.: Kind
of you to enclose the parson’s testimonial that it’s
“a good poem.” The parson is no judge.... Gwend:
Maternity yarn good but needs a crisper finish....
Spadger: The menagerie lacks interest... .C.0.L.:
People who use free verse are mainly too free with
it.... Leander: It’s a little bit overstrained ; cut
down the introduction and submit again... .G.R.M.:
She talked to him from page 1 to page 16, and then
he went away brokenhearted because she refused to
marry him. He didn’t know when he was well off.
. ...C.P.L.; Your prodigal is a fat-headed c0w....
Dora G.: “A rather long poem, I’m afraid.” The
what-you-eall-it is 10ng.... E.R.M.: Cheap humor
Pamb. P.: “And still the grave rolls on” is a really
remarkable conclusion... .Syd B. (Wanganui) : Twelve
lines, 12 question marks, and then four lines with
a trite answer! That’s questionable verse T.R.R.:
Trite thought, not well expressed... .Pat: “Defiance—
lions” destroyed it.... 8.A.V.: You should be able
to do better... .Visconti: Doyle will be grateful
The great detective sat at ease;
He passed the time in picking fleas
From off the canine by his side,
And Watson watched his friend with pride.
“’Tis strange,” said Holmes, “what men will do
To raise a paltry quid or two.
I know a man who killed his wife
To get insurance on her life.
I know another stranger case
About a man whose name was Grace.
He stole a watch and, sad to say,
They shot him as he ran away.
They shot him dead; they’re not to blame—
I daresay we might do the same.
. »..W.B. (Sandringham, Vic.): Crudities spoil it.
Solicitors don’t usually brand their trade on their
bags... .E.R.M.: Poor jingle... .Exeter: Those trick
verses are as entertaining as the drawing-room con-
jurer. .. .G.M.P.: “Thank God!” says your hero in
the last par. So he must have been very tired of it,
too.. ..8.5.; The Fasoli yarn is ponderously told.
.... Marg C.: The Duke has enough to endure
without those verses.... Scottie: Shows promise....
Cam D.; “Fits the great occasion”? Yes, it seems
like fits... .E.J.O’D.: Thanks for that yarn about
“Stepper” Davis and the goat-race. It it didn’t
come in a dozen times a year we should feel neg-
lected .... Leicayles: Here’s the tangled happening:
I bumped my nose on Brooklyn Bridge—wallop!
And all Manhattan roared its mirth,
(O impertinent, jejune Democracy,
With your ululant uvulas and raucous larynxes!)
Sparks bright as a houri’s belladonna’d orbs
Danced furiously Charlestons before me;
A dull dark-green pain, like gumboils, assailed my
nostrils.
I burst out into nettle rash;
I longed for Analgesia,
For some analeptic catholicon ;
And then somebody chucked a hot-dog at me—wump!
(O the Incomprehensibility of the Indeterminate!
O, the Pusillanimity of the Isomorphous!)
Bring me some turmeric, camarado,
I’m fed up to the back teeth with Manhattan.
....Orestes: Very dull stuff.... Barwon: Too many
snags in your stream.... E.M.P.: Sorry; but already
covered.
TO ARTISTIC (AND INARTISTIC)
CORRESPONDENTS.
C.P.P.: Joke almost long enough for a vaudeville
turn... .S.C. (Port Melbourne) : Either learn to draw-
hands or hide them in pockets... .S.C. (Collie) : You
must have picked up your ideas of anatomy from a
maker of rag d 0115... .N.K.E.: Oxford-bags joke is worn
at the seat.... J.N.K.: You’re a mincing penman with
a passion for trivial lines... .C.W.H.: Deadbeat
manicuring finger-nails given a soup-ticket and passed
0n....8.H.: Is it a human being or a deflated bal-
loon?... .A.G.F.: Sluggish humor and mediocre art.
. ...F.H. : The fowlyard snob has crowed on our
fence before... .J.M.8.: Muddled linework makes
parson in pulpit look like a prisoner at the gallows.
. ...E.V.: Original jokes without drawings always
find a market at The Bulletin Office.
THE INKY WAY.
“C.Q.”: A friend has just come back from
U.S.A. with an interesting story. A plebis-
cite was taken at a leading N’York club as
to which was the favorite newspaper in the in-
stitution’s reading-room. The name that
came top was unexpected. ■ It was The
Bulletin’s.
“Spare Sub.”: Sydney Sun last week in-
formed its readers that it had purchased
an aeroplane, and had been congratulated
by the makers as the first Australian news-
paper to own one. Brisbane Courier has
been delivering papers to the Darling Downs
and other middle-west areas by ’plane for
months past.
“Jaynib”: Jennings, late C.S.M. at
Sydney Central, has emerged from his
retirement and reappeared in the police-
court over which he once presided, as con-
tributor to Truth. Ostensibly his action
is to augment his allegedly inade-
quate pension. He: could probably do much
better in his own calling; for the ex-beak
has two solicitor sons to whom his legal
experience would be worth much. Mean-
while, his copy for Truth is well blue-pen-
cilled into shape, but as a cub reporter
some of his phrases show considerable pro-
mise !
“Tenakolie”: “Mac” is correct (B.
17/3/’27) ; Edward Ellis was the first editor
of the Sydney Sunday Times. Indeed, he
founded it, having convinced a York-street
wholesale ironmonger and an affluent tea mer-
chant, newly arrived from England, that
Sydney’s aching need was a smart Sunday
paper. The tea merchant, one Evans, pre-
sently gave up his offices and warehouse
next to the corner of York and Market streets
—west side —to the rag, and blossomed out-
into a newspaper proprietor. The Times
was an offshoot of the Referee, also founded
by Ellis. It was the. first paper to discern
that there was plenty of payable copy in
Saturday Carrington Handicaps, Larry
Foley’s monthly fights, and _ football; and
after an initial struggle, its circulation went
rapidly ahead.
“Kerys”: I have a lively- recollection of
a “Mug Book” on Yankee lines (B. 24/3/’2'<)
compiled in Maoriland just before the war.
Those wishful of a place within its pages
paid the fee demanded and, in order that
the information given might be _ veracious
and pleasing, mostly wrote their life history
themselves. Quite a few of those featured
in the book were Germans, and the extreme
usefulness of the publication became appa-
rent on the outbreak of war, when it was
brought forth triumphantly by the M.L. offi-
cials as proof of birth in an enemy country.
Some of - those who had indiscreetly scat-
tered particulars of their early days tried
to convince the authorities that the informa-
tion was erroneous, but most of them meekly
accepted internment on their owm state-
ments. . .
THE POET’S PLAINT.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
I met him in the premises that house The
Bulletin ;
He told me every page but one he’d had his
lyrics in,
But this, it seemed, was closed to him—which
tilled him with chagrin.
His harp he’d smote for Various Verse and
eke the Page that’s Red ;
He’d put a Sundry Show in rhyme, he hinted,
on his head ;
Vers de Societe he deemed his softest job, he
said.
He’d pen the swinging staves for Aboriginali-
ties
Or spin a snappy roundelay of Sport with
equal ease,
And weave Political lampoons as he were
shelling peas.
On Personal he’d made his mark with many
a lively lay,
Or saddled up his Pegasus and rode him,
blithe and gay,
Around the Point o’ Poverty, along the Inky
Way.
In English Plain I might have seen his
stanzas flowing free;
Ev’n in the Answers page at times he took
no shame to be
With realistic “Bellerive” and mellifluous
“Ripponlea.”
“But where the Wild Cat crouches low upon
the windlass bare .
I have no luck,” complained the man I met
upon the stair;
“Try as I will I cannot get a scrap of jingle
there.
“Have they no taste for poesy? No ear for
lines that dance?
Or is it on the Muses Nine they’ve learned to
look askance,
The chroniclers of mining and the pundits of
finance?”
“Come, try a rhyme,” I counselled him, “on
gold that lures and vamps.
Bring in a lilt about the luck of bygone
roaring camps,
The tinkle of the dolly pot, the hum of
pounding stamps.
“Is there no scope in figures for rondeau or
triolet ?
No balladry in balance-sheets? Buck up!
You still may set
Your feet upon Parnassian peaks no bard has
trodden yet.”
“Climb up”—’twas thus I heartened him—
"where glory waits, my son;
With laureate’s bays we’ll wreathe your brow
when to that Page you’ve won.
For you will have achieved a thing that
no one else has done!”
N..S.W.
T. THE R.
“Bill Bowyang” : The owner of the quaint-
est printing office I ever struck in my wan-
derings was Jimmy Lee, who passed out in
Brisbane the other day .aged 84. In the
golden days of Charters Towers, Lee opened
a small jobbing office, and for a time dm
well, but when business slumped lie becam •>
restless. So he purchased a caravan, aim.
placing within it several cases of type and a
small hand press, started out on the roads
leading to the Gulf Country. His plant con-
tained sufficient fonts of type to turn on.
passable letter-heads, visiting cards and other
small jobs. Finally he sold his turnout iu
Norniauton, and drifted back to Brisbane.


THE BEENIE PATENT
Ideal Stay-on Horse Rug,
Easily Fastened.
Used on All the Crack Racers, Trotters
and Polo Ponies.
"A QUALITY, for turning out, made of super white
flax canvas (not cotton duck) and lined with
warm wool check.
sft. 6in. 48/6, sft. 9in. 50/-, 6ft. 51/6.
"ES” QUALITY, for stable use, made of white duck,
lined with warm wool check.
sft. 6in. 41/-, sft. 9in. 42/3, 6ft. 44/-
A/d 2/9 per rug for freight and if we pay less we refund the
difference. Write for a full rug list .showing other styles and
qualities.
WRITE FOR
SADDLERY
OCR
LIST.
POLO PLAYERS
Write for our Polo Booklet with Rules.
The “Witch” Polo Stick with the
Head that lasts longer.
The Bates Patent Polo Helmet.
English Polo Hiding Breeches and
Riding Boots.
K’BURRA STOCKWHIPS are Guaranteed
Kangaroo right through. Post free.
Thongs: 6ft. 7ft. Bft. 9ft.
12-plait: 17/- 19/6 22/6 24/6
16-plait: 19/- 22/- 25/- 28/-
16-plait handles, 16/6; for 9ft. thongs, 18/-
WALTHER 8 STEVENSON, Ltd., 395 George Street, Sydney
12
10
An Easter Gift
Th OR an enduring and beautiful friendship
you need an enduring and beautiful
symbol—and what more perfect in these
qualities than an Elgin Watch ?
The artistry of design, wafer-like daintiness,
durable strength, and unvarying accuracy of
an Elgin make it pre-eminent.
An Elgin Watch is the perfect Easter Gift.
OBTAINABLE AT ALL LEADING JEWELLERS
g otgin
THE WATCH WORD FOR ELEGANCE AND EFFICIENCY
Jfiip Jrade Mark WjjiW/ in the Watch Cape
O. MEE’ATT —Father of Fortune, King of Luck-
bringers and inventor of Send Round the Hat.
V
m
m
\uit\
V ii
m
rr
V
m
m
s.
m
m
N.S.W. Fire Brigades
Art Union
For the Hospitals and Ambu-
lances of the State (Sanctioned
by the Attorney-General).
£6666
in Prizes.
Tickets
II-
First Prize, a Solid Gold Fireman’s Helmet,
valued at £lOOO. This is a veritable Pot
of Luck, for it can be converted into
sovereigns at a moment’s notice.
AS GOOD AS GOLD FROM THE MINT.
Consult 0. Mee’att, who invented Lucky Brain
Waves from Hats. Listen to his words:
“Good luck to those who meeteth man or
woman with their Considering Cap at the
right angle. Should you meet one with a hat
brought forward to shade the eyes, it means
hasten, he is dazzled by the splendor; tilted
to the right, do not waste time dreaming;
tilted to the left, pursue your wish at once;
titled to the back of the head, a sure sign of
confidence and luck. Beware of the man who
hath no hat, for he seeketh what thou hast
got, and hath nothing to pass round for
charity.”
Other prizes: 2nd. Studebaker Six, £845;
3rd, Thornycroft Motor Lorry, £641 ; 4th,
Six-cylinder Nash, £595 ; sth, Austin Five-
seater, £395; 6th, Buick Touring Car, £395 ;
7th, Essex Coach, £299 ; Bth, Sliulz Player
Piano, £225 ; 9th, Victor Player Piano,
£212 ; and 130 other prizes valued at from
£175 to £4/10/-
TICKETS ONE SHILLING. BOOKS OF 25
FOR £l. 12 TICKETS FOR 10/-
6 FOR 5/-
Write to the Secretary of the
Fire Brigades Art Union,
Circular Quay Station, Sydney,
N.S.W.
Write plainly. State whether
Mr., Mrs. or Miss.
Drawing: Takes Place at Fire Brigade Headquarters on August
Positively no postponement. Closing Date. July ‘27.
send stamped and addressed envelope fot lexult slip.
J. J. NEVILLE.' Hon. Sec.
3475
Chances
for £1
QN
BANK
THE QUEENSLAND NATIONAL BANK, LIMITED.
Incorporated under the Companies Act 1863. Established 1872.
Directors —A. C. Luva, Esq., Chairman; James Love, Esq.; W. H. Hart, Esq.;
M. J. liyan, Esq.; D. W. Macdonald, Esq.
General Manager—M. G. HAYMEN.
HEAD OFFICE . . . . . . BRISBANE
With offices at London, Canberra (Federal Territory), Melbourne, Sydney, and
95 branches in Queensland and Northern Rivers, N. S. Wales, also representation
through the leading Banking Institutions covering Australasia and the World, this
the fullest facilities for the transaction of all general banking business.
Visitors to Brisbane! Book up at the
HOTEL CECIL
(FIRST CLASS)
Reasonable Tariff—Good Position.
ŕ
Registered Trade-mark.
BRITISH
SCISSORS of
HIGH QUALITY.
SOLID STEEL. A LIFETIME’S WEAR.
Representatives :
NORMAN BAKER & LONGHURST, LTD.,
Sydney, Melbourne, and Wellington, N.Z.
CHRISTOPHER JOHNSON & CO., Sheffield,
FLAG BRAND CUTLERY. England
ŗ
No. 1369.
If any illustration in “THE BULLETIN” takes your fancy, write
to the MANAGER, who will quote you price for the original.
hory Tipped
or Plain
“ De Reszke
of course
f/m.
y
m
// .i
A
Wo**
*1
/i
L
Sand
and Moonshine
“ What’s this they’re saying about
sand in tobacco ? ”
“Moonshine, my child, where good
cigarettes are concerned. Some cigar-
ettes are made of the coarser, cheaper
leaves that grow on the lower part of
the tobacco plant and therefore get
sand-blown; so the sand has to be
extracted from the tobacco.
“But these De ReszkeVirginias are made
only of the choice middle leaves,
which escape the ravages of wind and
sand. There’s no sand to be extracted
from them, and it’s the expensive
quality of the leaf that produces the
fine flavour and freedom from ‘ bite
you like so much.”
DE RESZKE
Virginias
TEN FOR NINEPENCE
Also in 20's, 50V and ioo’s.
J. MILLHOFF & CO., LTD., 86 PICCADILLY, LONDON, W.L
Agents for N.S.W.: DALGETY & COMPANY, LTD., Sydney.


HULL
Britain’s Third and
Cheapest Port.
The Natural Gateway
to a large Industrial Area of
12 MILLION PEOPLE.
11 DOCKS
Owned and Served by the
London 8 North-Eastern Railway
MODERN EQUIPMENT,
RAPID HANDLING,
LOW CHARGES.
EXPRESS GOODS TRAINS
to all parts of the country.
Regular Fast Steamship Services to the
Continent of Europe for Re-Export Trade.
AUSTRALIAN SHIPPERS are invited to
inquire for further information at the offices
of Messrs. BURNS, PHILP & CO., LTD.,
10 Bridge Street, Sydney; and Branches.
L.N.E.R.
Largest Dock-owning Railway
in the World.
Nation- Wide Popularity through
Fair Dealing.
The phenomenally rapid growth and nation-wide popularity of the
Producers and Citizens’ may be said to rest on the fact that it lives up
to the spirit as well as the letter of the ideal of Co-operation. For
example, its Policy-holders are protected against forfeiture of their
policies during seasonal emergencies; each year definite sums are
earmarked for loan purposes; while the Company’s intimate know-
ledge of the peculiar needs of the men on the land takes form in
sympathetic, understanding treatment.
The PRODUCERS & CITIZENS’
Co-operative Assurance Co. of Australia, Ltd
114-120 Castlereagh Street, Sydney.
Gov. Dir.:
A. Iv. Trethowan.
Gen. Man.
H. Fell.
CYMA
KNOWN ALL OVER THE WORLD
AS THE BEST TIME KEEPER
SOLD BY ALI JFWELLERS
SUNDRY SHOWS.
SYDNEY SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Her Majesty's “Pinafore”
Criterion “Six-cylinder Love”
Koyal “Tell Me More”
Palace “The Old Adam”
St. James “The Big Parade”
Fullers’ Vaudeville
Tivoli Vaudeville
Hippodrome Wirths.’ Circus
MELBOURNE SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
His Majesty’s “Rose Marie”
King’s “They Knew What They Wanted”
Royal “Tea for Three”
Princess Shakspearean Productions
Atjienjsum “The Ghost Train”
Tivoli Vaudeville
Bijou Vaudeville
Majestic Moving Pictures
Hoyt’s Moving Pictures
♦
“Pinafore,” staged at Her Majesty’s, Sydney,
on Saturday, keeps its freshness wonderfully
for a 50-year-old satire on the ways of
authority. The buoyant chorus and the cheeky
melodies, with their blend of humor and
jingoism, have lost none of their appeal.
The weakness in the casting is not so much
in evidence as in some of the productions.
As Sir Joseph Porter, Charles Walcnnisseen
to real advantage, and tellingly recounts how
the key to success lies in the polishing of the
door-knob. The good airs Strella Wilson has
to warble show her at her best; it is a
pity that James Hay, who is the Rackstraw
to her Josephine, has some indications of fog
in his upper register, but he comes up to the
dialogue requirements a bit better than usual.
Lance Fairfax seizes to the full the oppor-
tunities that the part of Bill Bobstay, the
bos’n’s mate, affords; and Bernard Man-
ning is an excellent Dick Deadeye. As in
previous parts, Winifred Williamson lacks
buxomness for an ideal Little Buttercup ; but
the handicap is less noticeable than usual.
The fruitiness of John Ralston’s voice is
not out of place in Capt. Corcoran; he
makes an impressive Old Man.
* * * *
The farce “Trial by Jury ” goes in as a
curtain raiser; but Bernard Manning as. the
learned Judge, Lance Fairfax as the Usher,
and the six bridesmaids make the trifle worth
while. The dual bill, which will be given a
run of nine nights, finishes the present series ;
but on Wednesday night next a sequence of
nightly revivals will follow, until the show
has to make way for “Frasquita,” which
opens on April 16.
** * *
Six concerts were announced as the
limit of the Paderewski enterprise in Sydney;
but it is significant that in the announce-
ments of the sixth, to take place on Saturday
night, there is no mention of finality. Direc-
AT SYDNEY TIVOLI.
Ole Olsen, with the fiddle, and Chick
Johnson, with the dinner-suit.
tors are seldom addicted to cold-shouldering
opportunity, and the appetite of Sydney for
the music of the master is still as keen as
ever. On Tuesday of last week, for the*
fifth concert, the Town Hall was packed to
its last seat; it is warranted to hold 3500
people, and chairs were crammed into all
sorts of spare spots. Each number stirred
reverberations of applause; but it was in
“Four Songs without Words,” selected from
Mendelssohn, and the “Etudes Symphoniques,”
Op. 13 of Schumann, that the wealth of emo-
tion that weds itself to Paderewski’s tech-
nical greatness was shown to its fullest.
The pianist’s own “Capriccio & la Scarlatti”
was played with a fantastic gaiety. Pader-
ewski is a generous entertainer; after the
end of the concert proper, his response to
the thunders of applause was an extra half-
hour of melody.
Six-cylmder Love,” which sounds like
something swift, is to make its appearance
at the Criterion Theatre on Saturday, cross-
ing over to the Palace when the Reper-
tonans have done with that house. Richard
-Laber and Hale Norcross lead the list of
those who will deal with passions reduced
to motor-car terms. To-night (Thursday)
lea for Three will be dispensed at the
vi fo i‘ the last time; and Judith Anderson,
with the teacups and the unfinished re-
hearsals of her next production “The Green
Hat, will make her way to Melbourne. As
Leon Gordon is conducting the rehearsals
his intention of returning to England is
evidently deferred indefinitely. “The Cradle
Snatchers comes to the Criterion on April
f , .. 3 ell 3 fe Mo re” made the Royal its
habitation last Saturday, and the ffianage-
ment ’is satisfied with its tenant. The
J lontre People have proudly tallied
the attendances that have thronged to see
inrmnn '• m reok 9 u them now as exceeding
T ; “T' - a coU l’ lc of days over four weeks"
1S crammed with items
cYr tw T 1 I ? anaf ' ernent '-s loath to dis-
cs) 1 that the show has to start at 7 45
nightly. America's Wild West continues to
be exposed by Frank Neil as a place filled
down P( T )' ?i the verge of a nervous bre.uk-
kmn, but there are no box-office appre-
i r::r^ bont n the f T cess ot: a season which
sjmited as well as that which opened with
The Nervous Wreck" at the G.O.H. There
is no present indication of a change of bill.
tries'er-,f is °! 1 u tbe numerous coun-
fw itod - )y . autllors to give the puppets
of their imagining a free spin; but the dis-
guise is thin in the case of “The Old Adam ”
lvdnev by o t n% R f Pe a tory So . dety at the Palace,
aim mad 3 r S r i day i Seemg that references
e, ) W? dl f 1° suc £ P laces as Piccadilly, an
enthusiast from Borneo volunteers to raise
fI.rSW-*? as l! s f motherland, and
\ e attitudinising Prime Minister is given
ThTnaffifi Va ,? Uely Lloyd George.
J he pacific Government of Paphlagonia is
Snlu? fr Sta n te 0f hy ? terics by th e know-
-1 - .T w V tS nheoseparing of defence votes
ml p 1 u at ’ the , ?? rey of its relentless
hv scoiSfni tani ? (whlch may be recognised
eonL? . ml reference to its “conscript”
P«opIe) ; but the war is gladly decided on in
preference to humiliation when ProfessoJ
Lilley gives the Paphlagonians what seems
to be a supreme weapon in a “negative rav ”
guaranteed to paralyse all machinery in the
area against which it is directed. Even
same rav S th&t R , uritania ha s got the
enlG * two peoples rush enthusiasti-
cally to war with swords salvaged from
museums for weapons and fishing-smacks for
battle-cruisers. The proposition having been
satisfactorily established that under all its
civilisation humanity loves a scrap (“We
enem . ies as badly as we need our
friends sometimes more,” says one of the
rS; W ) e l 0^ g for tbe S* ot conflict
to prove ourselves”) one is not surprised
wlm fi ? d fi eV ? n n the Rl , sh °P of Stephensbury,
who is the leader of the Pacifists’ party, bless-
mg the volunteers as they march out. In a
play that has a nice balance of humor and
pathos, the Repertorians did very well,
Sl t ere W^ e ? ne or two weak props.
which let down the interest. S. R. Irvine
as General Cuncliffe, is the main strong
prop., who makes the character of the Paph-
lagoman Chief of Staff a very real one; the
posturing, platitudmising politician, who looks
like Lloyd George and is always either mak-
ing speeches or looking for somebody to take
the responsibility for his errors, is well done
by Montgomerie Stuart, with Harold Watch
as a nervy Foreign Minister, and John Cox
as a philosophising War Minister, giving
him the sort of support he deserves.
J ho _ others don t reach the standard
of this group, Elwyn Campbell making a
colorless business of the juicy part of the
professor who introduces the ray Still
Ber y l Lynox was brightly natural as Betty
Cuncliffe, and a lady who disguises herself
under the stage-name of Erna Living gives
a hvel y nnpersomiti 011 of the talkative being
who (although single in the play) might be
almost anybody’s wife in her most trying
mood. The play is to run for a fortnight.
Stiffy and Mo have the freedom of the pro-
gramme at Fullers’ Theatre; and audiences
show entire approval of the arrangement.
* * * $
The star performers at Wirths’ Circus are
the bears, who do all sorts of acts with
cycles, scooters, skates and stilts, including
tailing oft them occasionally; but the red-
skinned wonder who turns a somersault,
cycle and all, through a circle of fire whilst
riding a bicycle, and the gent, who stands
on his head on the top rung of a ladder
near the ceiling, are also entitled to honor-
able mention. The Hippodrome show has a
full hand of thrills blended into the usual
pack of circus tricks.
The withdrawal of Olsen and Johnson
from their strong-post at the Svdney Tivoli
at the end of this week will be a grief to the
younger generation who have found the tempo
of the twins in entire keeping with their
craze for breakneck speed. The 20-stone
Moore and his diminutive offender Shy con-
tinue to patter in an amiable manner in
the intervals of whacking at each other’s
anatomy. The Jovers, newcomers to the bill,
are at their best in the burlesque on the Rus-
sian ballet, although their dancing and acro-
batics are brisk and fresh. The elongated
Donald Stuart and Les Zenga Freres are
holding their own, and if Estelle Rose would
discard her old turns as she does her old
clothing the Tiv. bill would be hard to
improve on.
* =:» * *
Don Juan was the first and most distin-
guished sheik in history, the life of Byron’s
hero being just one darn love-affair after
another. Ilis adventures took him all over
Europe, but his most famous exploits were
“SWEET NELL OF OLD DRURY" AT
MELBOURNE THEATRE ROYAL.
Nellie Stewart as Nell Gwynne, Arthur
Greenaway as King Charles II.
not achieved in Rome. It is in Rome, how-
ever, that the t ween-play “Don Juan,” now
at the Prince Edward, has been set with the
picturesque and hectic accompaniment of the
Borgias. The incorrigible seducer is shown,
with much sly humor, sorting out his love
affairs with neatness and despatch. Though
Byron’s great poem was never finished, the
amorous Spaniard’s end, according to the
poet’s intention, was to be “either in Hell or
in an unhappy marriage.” In the play, how-
ever, Don Juan finds one chaste girl, and
disappears with her over the horizon on horse-
back —the Spanish frontier being apparently
only one day’s ride from the Tiber —to settle
down into a happily married life. All this
is rubbish, but there is abundance of film art,
and every setting is romantic. Finally, John
Barrymore, with his classic profile and his
apparently amazing youth, again proves
himself one of the very greatest of modern
screen actors. The picture is one of the
most memorable yet seen in Sydney.
“They Knew What They Wanted,” at
Melbourne King’s, is the story of native
Americans with starved souls and immi-
grants from the Old World with full ones.
A miserable little bruised waitress in a
’Frisco spaghetti joint receives by post an
offer of marriage from an elderly Italian
vinegrower with a primitive desire for pro-
geny to leave his money to. To make sure
of catching his bird he encloses as his the
photograph of a young member of the
I.W.W. who happens to be working on his
farm. To celebrate his nuptials he drinks
heavily of his own wine, and in Fording to
the railway station to meet his bride, breaks
both his legs. The ceremony is performed,
however, the bridegroom is put to sleep with
morphia, and the first curtain descends on
the girl fleeing into the night with the
Industrial Worker of the World. It is her
only burst of real liberty. In due course
the crippled viticulturist learns that his wife
is to have a child, which will be only his
by courtesy. After a display of natural
indignation he implores her to remain with
him instead of taking to the road with her
wobbly lover. An ex-waitress does not need
to be told that the most important thing in
this world is three meals a day, and she
remains.
* * * *
Maurice Moscovitch produced this tragi-
comedy of frustration on Saturday with con-
siderable shrewdness. He painted the old
vigneron’s philoprogenitive hopes and fears
very humorously and understandingly. Ellen
Pollock portrayed the. hungry soul of the
genomic product of the ’Frisco slums with
a nervous velocity of diction that was
astounding. .Nat Madison, who has a laconic
style which is often remarkably impressive,
was a sulky misfit as her lover. A doctor
(Richard Webster) and a priest (Alex.
Sarner) represented the pale world of con-
vention. and a band of real Italians, as the
vineyard workers, loved, fought and sang,
like Nature’s lusty children, very richly in
th<3 background. The performance was defi-
cient on the score of length, but it had more
breadth and depth than a harem of Mrs
Cheneys; so, despite the weakness of much
of the dialogue, it deserves to be thankfully
received.
* $ *
At Melbourne Princess last week Allan Wilkie
added a ghost to the merriment of "Twelfth
Night. Seldom has this Showman heard
more unrestrained laughter than greeted this
offspring of the Wilkie Muse; nor did the
laughter slacken greatly throughout the rest
of the burlesque. For a burlesque it was.
and one of the most obvious absurdities was
Lorna Forbes Olivia’s indifference in the
earlier scenes to the gross pretensions of her
steward, Malvolio Wilkie, whom the orches-
tra announced with conquering-hero music.
The performance showed the general com-
pany in a better light than in any previous
exposition. John Cairns, as Sir Toby Belch,
swallowed an ocean of imaginary sack, and
the impression gained was that he could not
have got drunker on any of the best-known
local brands of beer. Arthur Keane’s Aguc-
oheek was an amusing fop, Dennis Barry
rhythmically danced the part of Feste, anil
Ellis Irving elocuted the lovesick Orsino
admirably. Miss Hunter-Watts gave her
well-known interpretation of Viola, and
Dulcie Cherry emerged from the background
which she has haunted up to date, and took
the important part of Maria. Why Wilkie hid
this jolly little light under a bushel for so
long is something of a mystery.
The most important theatrical event in
Melbourne last week was “Measure for
Measure” at the Princess. This play,
damned by some numskulls as “unpleasant."
is one of the greatest works of the greatest
English playwright, which is probably a good
enough reason why it has not been played
in London for donkey’s years and in Aus-
tralia for 60. Wilkie is to be commended
for his courage in tackling a piece so
unanimously avoided.
* * * #
Shakspeare loaded his frail plot almost
below the Plimsoll with sombre thought—
Wilkie proved himself an able seaman to
bring it into port, with colors flying. He
himself wore the mask of Angelo, and was
an arresting exclamation mark 'in black
velvet and furs who held the attention of the
audience while he was on the stage, and kept
it uneasily aware of him while he was off
it. It was refreshing to see Miss Hunter-
Watts in a new part and one that suited
her so thoroughly. In her hands, Isabella's
nobility and virtue shone wliitely against the
murky background of unregenerate Vienna.
Dennis Barry made the proposed beheading
of the ardent Claudio seem a violent and
bloody way to treat a human butterfly. Frank
Clewlow as the fantastic Lucio looked as if
“THE GHOST TRAIN," AT MEL-
BOURNE ATHEN EUM.
Betty Ross Clarke creates an atmosphere of
mystery, in which Mascotte Ralston
finds it difficult to breathe.
he had been let loose in Myer’s basement to
obtain his wardrobe, and John Cairns gave
dignity to the part of the ducal busybody
with a delivery that ushers of the Black Bod
would do well to imitate.
j*. a.
Phil Smith and Nat Hanley are the most
prominent jokes in this week’s outburst of
hilarity at Melbourne Bijou. Sam Stern,
who decorates the first part with Yiddish
humor, and Stompy, a negro who dances,
and Stella, a negress who accompanies him
dolefully on her voice, are poor compet-
itors for the free entertainment provided
outside by the new buildings going up in
every street; and the McLaglens, classical
posers, supply an act which has perhaps
been a little overdone of late. Anyhow, a
few minutes of it start one longing for a
cigarette. As has been said before, however.
Phil Smith’s revue is the unserious business
of the day.
(Continued on Page 5{.)


No. 99 SET.—Contains the essen-
tials for a perfect “Valet Shave—-
the razor, strop and blade in
leatherette case as illustrated
below
3/6
Unequalled
Value for 3/6
A RAZOR that strops its blade without requiring a special
machine.
A superfine blade of highest>quality steel, the edge of which is
originally tuned up to perfection and by means of the self-stropping
device —right in the razor head—shows actual daily improvement.
The tenth shave with a “Valet” blade is as good as the first, and the
fiftieth as good as the tenth.
A combination embodying the simplest and sanest principles
nothing to take to pieces for either stropping or cleaning—simplicity
itself 1
5 C*
BRITISH
MADE.
“ VALET ”
Ax\Xo' Strop
Safety Razor
The Auto Strop Safety Razor Co., Ltd.,
197-207 City Road, London, England.
Managing Agents for Australia —
OF ALL
DEALERS.
PHIPSON & COMPANY, LTD., 181 CLARENCE STREET, SYDNEY.
Portable Crushing and Screening Plants
FOR ROADMAKING
ALL AUSTRALIAN-MADE
m
i
am
. •-»
m
-x. •Cxsss
A “Ruwolt” Portable Crushing, Screening and Storage Plant—Capacity 100 tons per day.
We manufacture all classes of spare parts for Stone Crushers for all makes of machines,
including Hadfields, Jaques, Champion, Blake Marsden, Robey, Hope, Fraser and Chalmers,
Bigelow, Baxter, etc.
MANGANESE STEEL JAW FACES A SPECIALTY.
SEND YOUR INQUIRIES TO:—
CHAS. RUWOLT PTY. LTD.
VICTORIA STREET, RICHMOND, VICTORIA.
TELEPHONES: J2161 (3 lines).
TELEGRAMS AND CABLES: RUWOLT, MELBOURNE.


The “WILD CAT” MONTHLY for April
ON SALE SATURDAY, APRIL 2. PRICE 2/-
CONTAINS REVIEWS OF
Amalgamated Textiles
Automobile Finance Co.
Australian Distilleries
British Tobacco
Caledonian Collieries
City Mutual Life
Commonwealth Bank
“Daily Telegraph”
D. Mitchell
D. & W. Chandler
F. T. Wimble
Hackshalls
Hotel Sydney
Howard Smith
Hud dart.. Parker
J. C. Williamson
Mangrovite Belting
Manly Hotels
North Shore Gas
Perpetual Executors & Trustees
Pelaco
R. H. Gordon
Robertson & Mullens
Southland Frozen Meat
Sydney Exchange Co.
Trufood
Wellington Gas
Latest Share Market Prices and Returns to Investors. Tin Mining Reports.
The Story of Holden’s. Commonwealth Stock Prices and Returns.
NO INVESTOR, BIG OR LITTLE, CAN AFFORD TO MISS THIS ISSUE -
- 2 7 -
Tom Kelly, the K. S. Walls, the Oansinos
and Mantell's Mannikins are still the chief
items on Melbourne Tivoli’s agenda-paper;
but Frederick Sylvester and his nephews
arrived with a wad of English humor on
Monday and further crowded it with matter
of importance.
Betty Balfour, in “The Sea Urchin,” a
mixed grill of English and French emotions,
is sharing the interest of Melbourne Majestic
patrons with the Duchess of York, wno is
seen stepping on to Australia at Sydney.
At Hoyt’s gay home Corinne Griffith is
pounding a Broadway piano as “Syncopating
Sue”; and in “Love’s Blindness,” Antonio
Moreno and Pauline Starke are directing the
searchlight of truth on what is described as
Hie unusual problem of mixed marriage,
though all marriages are mixed, as far as
this commentator knows —at any rate, they
are male and female, which is mixed enough.
A brilliant theatrical scandal will be
revealed on Saturday at Melbourne Royal,
when Judith Anderson, the Austral-Ameri-
can star, and Leon Gordon, who was short-
shipped when “White Cargo” sailed away,
will pass round “Tea for Three.” Nellie
Stewart completes a run twice as long as
was projected at the same play-shop to-
morrow evening; judging by the box-office
returns her farewell will be a major riot.
“Rose Marie” still flourishes at His
Majesty’s, and so does “The Ghost Train”
at the Athenamm. The last act of “Gum-
tree Gully,” the Australian laugliter-raiser
at the Palace, has been remodelled, and the
results are good enough, in this Showman’s
opinion, to warrant operations on the re-
mainder of the piece.
“The Judgment,” which features the acu-
men of Solomon when two mothers claimed
the same infant, was presented by the Dra-
matic Class of the Albert-street Con. on
Tuesday night of last week. A Maorilander
who writes under the name of “Marsyas” is
responsible for the dramatic effort, which is
suitable only for convent and church college
entertainments. Laurence Housman’s plays,
“Brother Sun” and “Sister Death,” founded
on legends that cluster round St. Francis of
Assisi, completed a triple bill of the correct
atmosphere. The last, portraying the death-
bed scene of the founder of the Franciscans,
with the usual religious accompaniments, is
a decidedly harrowing novelty. Allan Hark-
ness collected the honors first as Solomon,
and later as a quite likeable Brother Sun.
Clever Beatrice Touzeau was the dying saint,
her fellow wearers of the habit being of the
same sex. and she was previously in the pic-
ture as the rightful owner of the man-child
of “The Judgment.”
* * * Hi
A cold snap at Adelaide and the immi-
nence of “The Last of Mrs. iCheney” have
sent Billy Maloney and his “New Ideas”
from Garden Theatre to Theatre Royal.
Rupert Ilazell and Elsie Day are strong-
cards in the programme. iColin Crane’s throb-
bing baritone voice is encored nightly. Marge
Ramage is another favorite, and the Statler
sisters score by sheer bubbling vivacity.
The Majestic is running a capital show with
the Lorna Lance co. Four clever children
make a hit in song, dance, piano and
violin numbers. Norah and Lance Kennedy
do a snappy act, with some smart sketching
by the former. Gayle Wyer and his Band-
box Revue co. make “The Honeymoon Trail”
good to travel. “Seven Days’ Leave,” a
William Anderson production at the Prince of
Wales, features Guy Hastings, George Cross,
Hilda Dorrington, Agnes Iveough and others
of unquestionable drawing power. It is to
be followed by another old favorite, “Within
the Law.”
❖ ❖
The Rex Ingram production of “Mare
Nostrum,” from the book by Blasco Ibanez,
has proved a record-beater at the York,
Adelaide. Alice Terry and Antonio Moreno
are starred, and appear four sessions a day.
James Riley and his astonishing tenor voice
command much applause in the intervals.
At Wondergraph David Torrence and
Myrtle Steadman serve up strong stuff in
“The Man in the Shadow.” In support
there is “Born to the West,” with Jack
Holt and Raymond Hatton providing thrills.
The Yorks’ tour of MX. helps to fill the
hill, and “Know Your Own Country” brings
up the rear—which it shouldn’t.
“Drummer”: “Caul Boy” (B. 24/2/’27)
can justly be .afraid of the talking-film. I
was in N’Yark last year, and some of the
stage renderings of the English language were
too appalling for words. Of course, the Barry-
mores, the Drews, George Arliss, Holbrook
Bonn and other fine actors are of English
stock, and their diction is perfect. J. Barry-
more’s “Hamlet” would pass anywhere in the
world. And men like’ A 1 Jolson, W. C.
fields, Leon Errol (Australian, of course)
and Frank Tinney are remarkably free from
twang, unless they purposely imitate negro
dialect.
Poverty
Point
WHEN MUSIC WAS MUSIC.
“Second Fiddle”: Little Dr. Maloney
asked in the House of Reps, whether Nellie
Stewart, who sang an Australian ode at
the State concert to George and Mary in
Melbourne Exhibition building in 1901, had
offered to sing to the present Duke and
Duchess of York at Canberra, and whether
such an offer had been declined, and why. Of
course, Nellie couldn’t sing a note now. She
even cuts her song as Sweet Nell, although
she warbles “Oranges” as of yore. What
she did want to do at Canberra was to
speak a piece just as she did to the Prince
of Wales at the gala performance in Syd-
ney. Nellie Stewart last sang on any stage
at Cairns (N.Q.).
“Erna Ivrust”: Are they ever too old?
Before Nellie Stewart started tripping about
as Nell Gwynne once more she received sev-
eral letters from inmates, both sexes, of the
Old Actors’ Homes at North Fitzroy asking
for a chance in any small (or other) parts
available in “Sweet Nell of Old Drury.” Old
Drury, forsooth!
“Ilamfat”: “The Gondoliers” w T on in the
vote taken by the Williamson management
to decide which should be the first G. and
S. opera revived during the Sydney season
now drawing to a close. That opera secured
more votes than all the others put together;
its supremacy was no surprise, but it was
not guessed that it would be so over-
whelming. In “The Gondoliers” Charles
Walenn is at his best; the Duke of Plaza
Toro is, in fact, the one part in which
he gives complete satisfaction when the work
of other Lord Chancellors, Jack Points and
Bunthornes is recalled.
“Up Stage”: With the revival of “Daddy
Long Legs” Miss Kelly is acclaimed as the
original Judy, which is not correct. Ruth
Chatterton was the first to play the part in
New York. 1915; Charles Waldron was male
lead. The thing ran for over 12 months.
“Blackpan”: Can quite understand “Cur-
tain Raiser’s” (B. 8/3/’27) timidity regard-
ing Apdale’s baboon. En route to Sydney
by the Dimboola, Apdale’s animals were
given an airing on the deck. The baboon sat
on a winch looking very docile, but a dog
was sorry when it approached too near. The
baboon grasped it around the middle and
squeezed heartily, only releasing it when
reprimanded by the boss. The dog slunk away
vomiting. Next, the baboon clutched the
purser by the legs; he was advised to keep
still, and was released. But, to the amaze-
ment of all, a young girl, heedless of warning,
walked up and let the ape hold her. Beauty
had conquered the beast.
“Csesar’s Ghost”: General Ryrie, who is
to be High Commissioner, gave Pat Hanna’s
Diggers an advertisement when on a visit to
the show at Manly. A burst of laughter
shaking the warrior-politician’s weight
proved too much for the canvas chair in
which he sat —Ryrie has a figure that per-
mits no liberties with canvas chairs. Rising
from the wreckage, “the old Brig.” got a new
laugh by telling the house he gave every-
body 28 days’ C.B.
“Sulphide”: Allan Wilkie (“M.G.5.,” B.
17/3/’27) has some justification for making
Roman Senators shake hands by clutching
each other below the elbow. I saw Benson’s
company do likewise at Stratford-on-Avon
in 1906.
“A.G.M.” (Loud.) : Gladys Moncrieff got
an uproarious welcome on the first night of
“The Blue Mazurka” at Daly’s. She deserved
it all, for she was laboring under many diffi-
culties. and yet sang with greater effect than
any other West End star now on the light-
opera stage. Having been called upon to
replace Madame Pechy, the Hungarian prima
donna, Gladys had very little time for pre-
parations. This is not the first occasion on
which the Queensland girl has been asked
to take another actress’s part in London.
Her refusal to supplant Ivy Tresmaud in
“Yvonne” must have cost her £2OOO, for the
piece had a very good run. The entire Lon-
don press gave Gladys high praise for her
singing. Scott, of the Westminster
Gazette, likened her to a nightingale.
* “Goldilocks”: Sydney Jewry has been
gladdened by the news that Helene Esser-
man, trusted with the lead in an opera in
Paris, has made a distinguished success.
When Melba expressed the view that Helene
had a voice deserving the best cultivation,
the Jewish community decided to give her
the opportunity which would otherwise have
been lacking. A committee, each member
undertaking a share, guaranteed the girl a
sufficient income for three years. When Sam
Cohen, who, as the first-born of George Judah
Cohen, is one of the mighty men of Israel
here, was in England he found that the three
years weren’t enough. Not only did he per-
sonally come to the rescue, but he interested
prominent musical Jews in Paris and London
in Helene’s behalf. Apparently it was well
worth while.
“Adam Ant”: Why do so many para-
graphers—the usually-well-informed “Caesar’s
Ghost” among others —insist that “Henry
VIII” has not been done since Creswick
did it nearly 50 years ago? Genevieve
Ward and W. H. Vernon put it up at the
Theatre Royal, Melbourne, in ’BB or ’S4; and
a good show it was, too, although Vernon
as Wolsey refused to sacrifice his military
moustache, and wore that strange adorn-
ment for a priest carefully soaped down
and camouflaged with grease-paint. The
late Gus Glover made a gross and stentorian
king.
“C.Q.” : Rufe Naylor, who built the new
Empire Theatre near the Central Station in
Sydney, has followed the same strategy in
securing the Morning Post building in Mel-
bourne for the site of his second playhouse.
Melbourne’s existing theatres become more
inaccessible as the suburbs grow. Merely
to struggle up from Flinders-street station,
negotiate the rapids at Collins-street. Swan-
ston-street, Russell-street, etc., and climb the
hill to His Majesty’s or the Princess is enough
excitement for one evening without troubling
to go inside. Clapp carries at least 60 per
cent, of the city-bound population past the
site of the new venture, and if Naylor gives
his theatre the usual wedding-cake architec-
ture, and floods it with hooded lights, the
frosted beauty will prove an irresistible
attraction to thousands of suburban moths.
“Bisley”: During the filming of the Aus-
tralian picture, “Greenhide,” now showing
in Sydney, Bruce Gordon mounted and rode
a buckjumper after it had thrown a well-
known professional rough-rider, and gave a
better exhibition than the pro. himself. The
horse, in seeking to dislodge its rider, rolled
over and broke its neck. “Greenhide” is
the second production of Charlie Chauvel.
nephew of General Harry Chauvel. There
is a bit too much Hollywood inspiration in
his pictures, but the talent is there, and he
should go far.
“Niliko”: There died not long ago a
respected MX. bank manager who earned
in a youthful escapade the nickname of “Car-
rots.” When an opera company was per-
forming in his native city he marked his
disapproval of the leading lady’s efforts by
hurling on the stage a bunch of carrots.
The lady’s husband broke off an impassioned
speech, cleared the footlights with a flying
leap, and dealt out summary justice. Then
he climbed back to the stage, bowed to the
cheering audience, and continued his speech.
“Rotorua”: The two sections (Whaka and
Ohinemutu) of the Arawa tribe of Maoris
at Rotorua were to give the Duke and
Duchess a welcome on the night of their
arrival. Neither section would perform at
the other’s pah, but they offered to give a
combined show on neutral ground. As
ley McKay’s pantomime co. had the Kings
Theatre, he offered to move into the smaller
Lyric Theatre for the night and let the
Maoris have the King’s. This was arranged.
For the change-over Stanley received £lOO,
and the Lyric was packed.
“Ilamfat”: Fred Carpenter is going to
America next month with producer Harry
Hall. Harry, who ought to know, reckons
that with some extra training the athletic
young Australian should reach the top.
“Archie”: Anachronisms both of costume
and custom disfigure Fairbanks’s “BlacK
Pirate” film. The vessels employed belong to
Drake’s time ; but the captive princess on boar]
the pirate ship drinks coffee from an urn of
the Victorian period. The Mediterranean
war-galley was obsolete before coffee
introduced into Europe. Again, walking the
plank was a method of disposing of captives
adopted years subsequent to the early days ot
piracy on the Spanish Main; it was employed
to avoid the noise of explosion, which might
have brought a war-ship on the scene.
“Nero” : There’s an enterprising youth iu
Napier (MX.). He lives a couple of doors from
the municipal theatre, and has a collec-
tion of hundreds of empty benzine-tins stored
in his back yard. Whenever a show visits
the town a long queue assembles; and the
youngster rents his tins as seats at Id.
per sitting. The night I was in Napier them
were 400 people waiting and two out of three
occupied the tin seats. When the doors
opened the tins were kicked into the road
with a din resembling a barrage.
“Mid-Channel”: When Howard Vernon
Ivo-Ivoed in Sydney he invariably gave Nanki
I'oo’s address as “Lower George-street, at
that time well known as Celestial headquarters.
In Melbourne, Vernon made it “Little Bourke-
street.” On the one occasion that treorge
Lauri played Ko Ko in Sydney, he gave the
address as “Woolloomooloo. Walenn lost
the whole point by the way be blurted the
address out. Vernon used to affect great
embarrassment, consult silently with the t\
others of the trio, and then come out with
“Lower George-street.” He always got a
great laugh. In Walenn s case the line
fell flat.
“Middle Blue” : Gerty Cremer, now playing
lead with Frank Neil in “The Nervous
Wreck.” practically began her career as lead
in “The Blue Bird,” and was in the unique
position of having no understudy. A;
Williamson provided her with a specia
doctor to watch her health f h e gets he
remarkable memory from dad and mum,
Brandon Cremer and Kathleen Arnold, vho
coached her from babyhood.
THE PROMPTER.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
A word for the prompter man!
A place most important he fills;
But ever since drama began
His name’s never seen on the bills.
In his cluttered-up possy he lurks.
Unguessed at, unhonored, unseen ;
In the show he’s the clerk of the works,
And often the show he has been.
He never is seen though lie's heard,
And often he pulls a scene through;
He discovers the right missing word
When the heroine’s mislaid her cue.
The hero may muck-up his speech,
The comedy man may go dumb,
But % waiting to rush to the beach
With a lifeline lie’s ready to come.
He’s often the lead in the co.;
Officially speaking no word.
In many an amateur show
His voice is most frequently heard.
No curtains lie gets, and no fun ;
His job is the hardest of all.
Though most of the talking he’s done,
They never give prompter a call.
x.s.w.
A. H. A.


Shipping. ______
BRISBANE, via BYRON BAY
Through Tickets to Brisbane issued,
5.5. OHARA —livery Saturday evening ; passengers
dm' Brisbane Monday afternoon.
5.5, WOLLONGBAR —Every Tuesday evening;
passengers due Brisbane Thursday afternoon.
Both vessels fitted with Wireless Receiving Sets.
BRISBANE:
FARES. —
Steamer and Motor throughout, Single, £4
Steamer and Motor throughout, Return, £7/5/-
Steamer and First-class Rail, Single, £3/15/-
Steamer and Second-class Rail, Single, £3/8/-
YORTH COAST S. N. CO., LTD.,
Passengers’ Booking Office:
TOURIST BUREAU, CHALLIS HOUSE,
MARTIN PLACE, SYDNEY.
Brisbane Booking Agents: Burns, Philp and Co., Ltd.
Have a New Holiday in
HAWAII
Break your next trip to Europe or America
without extra cost in the isles of eternal
springtime. Tropical scenery, fragrant flowers,
luscious fruits. Haunting melody ’neath moon-
lit palms. Outrigger canoeing, surfboard
riding, golfing, motoring and outdoor sports
the year round. Inter-island cruises, volcanic
spectacles.
Or take a round-trip from Sydney, 8 weeks or
less, for about £lOO to £l5O all expenses,
allowing 3 to 4 weeks in Hawaii and a day
at Suva or Pago Pago. Good hotels with meals,
12/- to £3 per day. Ask steamship or travel
agencv or write Hawaii Tourist Bureaus, Dept.
26, Box 241 D, G.P.0., Sydney, N.S.W., for
beautifully-colored booklet, enclosing this adver-
tisement.
On Your Next Trip Include Hawaii
Banking, Public Companies, etc.
ihe Australian Bank of Commerce Limited
Authorised Capital .. .. .. £5,000,000
Capital Paid Up and Reserves ~ .. £2,085,303
Aggregate Assets at 30th June, 1926 ..£16,789,590
Directors: Sir Mark Sheldon, K.8.E., Chairman ;
Fiiank N. Yauwood ; Duncan Carson ; H. R.
Lvsacmt, 0.8. E.; George J. Sly, LL.D. ; Lieut.-
Col. T. L. F. Rutledge.
General Manager: C. M. C. Shannon.
Chief Inspector for N.S.IV.: W. G. Hull.
HEAD OFFICE, SYDNEY (Corner George and King
Streets).
Branches and Receiving Offices at 151 places in
New South Wales.
BRISBANE (264 Queen Street).
Chief Inspector for Queensland: L. Avf.tard.
Manager: G. H. Howell.
Branches and Receiving Offices at 27 places in
Queensland.
MELBOURNE (325 Collins Street).
Manager: M. B. Finney.
ADELAIDE (35 Rundle Street).
Manager: R. T. Moodie.
PERTH, W.A. (73 St. George’s Terrace).
Manager: A. C. Dihuin.
LONDON (37 Threadneedle Street, E.C.2).
Manager: A. F. Jenkins.
London Directors;
A. Dodds Fairiiairn, Alfred Shepherd.
Agrnts throughout Australia. Tasmania and New
Zealand, and at all the Chief Cities of the World
Every description of Banking Rusiness Transacted.
Bank of New Zealand.
SYDNEY BRANCH:
Coiner GEORGE and WYNYARI)
STREETS.
Guaranteed Stock.. .. .. £529,988
Preference Shares .. .. .. 1,875,000
Ordinary Shares .. .. .. 3,750,000
Reserve Fund and Undivided Profits 3,390,378
CUNTS DRAFTS **%£.
Great Britain and Ireland, and other places.
RECEIVES DEPOSITS
at Interest for
fixed periods, and
transacts all other usual Banking business.
The Bank of Adelaide
(Incorporated 1865.)
Perth Office: St. George’s Terrace.
Also, 'Fremantle, W.A.
Melbourne Office: 267 Collins Street.
Sydney Office: 27!) George Street.
Authorised Capital .. £2,000,000
Subscribed Capital ~ 875,000
Paid Up Capital .. .. £875,000
Reserve Fund .. .. .. .. 800,000
£1,675,000
Reserve liability of shareholders .. 875,000
£2,550,000
Head Office: ADELAIDE, SOUTH AUSTRALIA.
Also 114 Branches and Agencies in South Australia.
London Office: 11 LEADENHALL STREET, E.C.
Agencies in all Australian States and throughout
the world.
Drafts and Letters of Credit issued on London,
America and elsewhere. Bills from abroad collected
and proceeds remitted All usual banking business
transacted.
Australian Mutual
n l msgs’iw Pro v i de ht Soc ie ty
The Largest and Most Successful
Mutual Life Office in the British Empire,
bistributes a Cash Bonus Every Year.
Amount Distributed for single year 1925 £2,428,000
Yielding Reversionary Additions to
Policies of over .. .. .. £4,150,000
Accumulated Funds .. .. .. £60,000,000
Annual Income nearly .. .. .. £9,090,000
The Society transacts Every Class of Ordinary
and Industrial Assurance Business.
H. W. APPERLY, F.S.S., General Manager.
Keep hopping and hoping if yon wish
to succeed — . think of
SCHUTE,
BELL&Cua.
if you have
Wool & Skins
to Sell.
Personal Attention.
Offices: 4d Bridge Street, Sydney.
ŕ
Shipping, etc.
CANADA, UNITED STATES,
UNITED KINGDOM
FORTNIGHTLY SAILINGS FROM SYDNEY.
CANADIAN-AUSTRALASIAN ROYAL MAIL LINE
via Auckland, Suva (Fiji), Honolulu, Victoria and Vancouver.
UNION ROYAL MAIL LINE
via Wellington, Rarotonga, Tahiti and San Francisco.
NIAGARA 13,415 tons, APRIL 7, for Vancouver.
MAKITRA 8,075 „ APRIL 21, for San Francisco.
AORANGI 17,490 ~ MAY 5, for Vancouver.
TAHITI 7,900 „ MAY 19, for San Francisco.
Fast and splen-
didly equipped
steamers using
oil fuel.
Spacious Decks,
Unrivalled
Cuisine.
ŗ
The Scenic
Houtes to the
United King-
dom, via South
Sea Islands,
Canada, United
States.
TICK UTS TO THE UNITED KINGDOM INTERCHANGEABLE FOB RETURN
BY OTHER LINES.
HONOLULU EXCURSIONS COMMENCE JUNE 2.
UNION STEAM SHIP CO.
/Union House, 247 George Street, Sydney.
\William Street, Melbourne.
MACDONALD, HAMILTON & CO., Brisbane, Adelaide and Perth.
SOUTH SEA TOURS
Attractive IsiavA Trips, occupying about Weeks.
SIX-WEEKLY SAILINGS FROM SYDNEY TO
Now/ Rritain ■ S.S. “MONTORO” (5000 tons).
New Dlliaill. Sails May 10 and June 21.
Solomon ?\lni\d\ * mataram (3500 tons),
OUiUUIVII IMdllUd. Sails April 27 and June 8.
A Delightful Holiday in Island Wonderlands.
For Particulars apply—
BURNS, PHILP & CO., LTD.,
Sydney, Melbourne, Adelaide and Brisbane.
i
ř
p@b.
•-■-C
BURNS, PHILP & CO., LTD.,
Passenger Booking Agents for All Steamship Lines
EXGLAND
EUROPE
AMERICA
CANADA
AFRICA
INDIA
JAPAN
CHINA
JAVA, etc.
At regular passage rates. No extra charge.
Attractive tour to
NOUMEA, JAVA, HONOLULU, COLOMBO, etc.
VISIT JAVA (The wonderland of the East).
Regular monthly sailings of the s.s. “Marella” and
m.s. “Malabar” to Java and Singapore via Queensland
ports, Thursday Island, Darwin, etc. Smooth water trip,
Deck Cabins, interesting ports of call.
APPLY
BURNS, PHILP & COMPANY, LIMITED,
WORLD TOUR and TRAVEL DEPARTMENT,
7 BRIDGE STREET, SYDNEY.
BANK OF
Paid-up Capital
Reserve Fund
Reserve Liability - -
N£W SOUTH
Established 1817.
WALES.
- - £6,000,000
- - 4,750,000
6,000,000
£16,750,000
Directors:
Thomas Bueldand, Esq., President.
The Hon Reginald J. Black, M.L.C.
Charles Binnie, Esq.
James Burns, iisq.
Robert L. Faithfull, Esq.,
Robert W. Gillespie, Esq.
Franc B. S. Falkiner, Esq.
M.D.
Auditors: W. H. Palmer, Esq.; S. E. Laidley, Esq. General Manager: OSCAR LINES.
Head Office —George Street, Sydney. London Office—29 Threadneedle Street, E.C. 2.
431 Branches and Agencies in the Australian States, New Zealand, Fiji, Papua, Mandated
Territory of New Guinea and London. Agents and Correspondents throughout the world.
Cable remittances made to, and drafts drawn on Foreign places DIRECT. Foreign Bills
negotiated and collected, Letters of Credit Issued, negotiable throughout the world.
The Commercial Banking Company
of Sydney Limited
ESTABLISHED 1834.
CAPITAL PAID UP £3,500,000 0 0
RESERVE FUND 3,000,000 0 0
RESERVE CAPITAL 3,500,000 0 0
£10,000,000 0 0
Directors *
GEORGE J. COHEN, Chairman; Hon. SIR THOMAS HUGHES, M.L.C., Deputy
Chairman • Hon. JAMES ASHTON, M.L.C.: Major-General the Hon. J. W.
MACARTHUR ONSLOW, V.D., M.L.C.; Sir WILLIAM VICARS, K. 8., C.B.E.
General Manager: J. R. DRYHURST.
HEAD OFFICE: Sydney, 343 George Street.
London Office.—lB Birchin Lane, Lombard Street, E.C.3.
Branches throughout New South Wales and Queensland. Agencies
throughout Australia and New Zealand, and all other parts of the World.
All”ciasses of General Banking and Exchange Business Transacted.
SAFE DEPOSIT VAULTS.—lnspection invited. Particulars of
Safe Rentals on application.
Shipping, etc,
Inter-State Steamship
Sailings.
(Passenger Sailings—Circumstances permitting.).
FOR MELBOURNE, ADELAIDE and FREMANTLE
(Transhipping at Melbourne for Geelong and other
Victorian ports; at Adelaide for S.A. Gulf ports;
and at Fremantle for Perth, Bunbury, Geraldton
and North-West Ports).
FOR QUEENSLAND PORTS
(Transhipping at Brisbane for Maryborough, Bunda-
borg, and Gladstone, and at Townsville for outports).
*Brisbane, Mackay (no cargo for Mackay), Towua\*..c
and Cairns.
Huddart Parker L='*SS"
STEAMERS TO NEW ZEALAND—ReguIar sailings
from Sydney to New Zealand ports and vice versa.
Particulars to be obtained on application.
STEAMERS TO TASMANIA From Sydney to llolmrt
and vice versa as per daily papers. Between Mel
bourne and Launceston as per daily papers.
For full particulars apply HUDDART PARKER LIMITED,
Collins Street, Melbourne; Bridge Street, Sydney.
Interstate Telegraphic address: Cable address :
“NALDHAM.” “NALDHAM.”
Macdonald, Hamilton 8 C).
247 George Street, Sydney.
Shipping Agents, Merchants, Colliery
Proprietors, Tug and Lighter Owners.
MANAGING AGENTS FOR
Australasian United Steam Navigation Co., Ltd.
Fitzroy Estates, Ltd.
ltlackheath Collieries, Ltd., and Caledonian
Collieries, Ltd.
Eastern & Australian Steamship Co., Ltd.
AGENTS FOR
Britisli-lndia S. N. Co., Ltd. P, & O. S. N. Co.
Queensland line of Steamers. Scottish Shire Line
(Turnbull, Martin & Co.). New Zealand Shipping Co.,
l.td. Canadian-Australasian Royal Mail Line, San
Francisco Service (Union S.S. Co.), Union S.S. Co.
of New Zealand, Ltd. Ilain Line. Huddart Parker,
Ltd. London Assurance Corporation (Marine). Mel-
bourne Agents for Messageries Maritimes Co. Queens-
land Agents for Sea Insurance Co., Ltd.
BRANCHES at Perth, Fremantle, Adelaide, Port
Adelaide, Melbourne, Suva (Fiji), Brisbane, Mary-
borough, Bundaberg and Bowen.
“THE WOMAN’S MIRROR,”
PRICE 3d.
Contains everything a woman needs to know.
For your
Summer Vacation
HOTEL
KOSCIUSKO
(Altitude 5000 ft.)
Trout Fishing - - Golf,
Tennis and Croquet.
Motoring on excellent roads.
Petrol for sale and parage
accommodation available.
Summer Tariff:
From £5/5/- per week.
£1 per day.
Bookings and Further Particulars at —
N.S.W. Government
TOURIST BUREAU
Challis House, 8 Martin Place,
Sydney.


Mi
MM
mmmm
mm£:
m i
m:
{■■■'■*■' '
r
Buying “Willard” is getting more
for your money every time—every
battery. A Willard Battery with
Threaded Rubber Insulation
comes CHARGED Bone Dry. It
stays brand new until it is pre-
pared for your use.
that's
Quality
ŕ
STORAGE
BATTERY


41
TiERE is nothing more beautiful than a
perfect skin, clear, soft and healthv;
that is the kind of skin that compels
admiration. If you have become dis-
couraged of ever attaining a perfect com-
plexion and have used various creams and
treatments and your skin is still sallow,
oily, coarse or blotchy, try Rexona Soap.
You will be both amazed and delighted to
find what a difference this pure, super-
excellent facial soap will make to your com
plexion. Doubtless it seems incredible to
you that anything so simple as daily bathing
the face with Rexona Soap and fresh water
could make such an improvement in the
skin when so many other complexion treat-
ments have failed to do so, yet you will find
that such is the case, because Rexona Soap
contains, in addition to its unusual cleans-
ing qualities, all the soothing, healing, c or-
rective properties contained in Rexona, the
Rapid Healer, so that its use quickly over-
comes any facial imperfections.
After using Rexona Soap you will feel that,
your skin has been refreshed and invigorated
to the very depths of its tiny pores, and
you will inhale the delightful out-door
freshness of the Rexona fragrance that is
typical of Rexona itself. Use Rexona Soap
with hot or cold water, hard or soft water.
It is always good and gives abundant foamy
lather in every case. Use Rexona Soap for
Health and Beauty and be a Rexona Girl.
Rexona Soap—the best soap it is possible to
produce.
yllMmsm
H- i
Miss N ELLE
DEAN, a dainty
Rexona Girl,
now playing
Lucille in the
Musical Comedy,
“No, No, Nanette!”
at His Majesty’s
Theatre, Brisbane, writes. .
“Having used Rexona Soap
for some time past, I wish \,
to express my appreciation of
its merits in keeping the skii
rnd hair in perfect condition.”
:
m
m
*
n
m
L
m
I
* % - ' i X'?
■ ■
WM 1
Miss DORTS
II E NDERSON,
the pretty Aus-
tralian Pianist
who recently
returned' from
Hollywood, is
a Rexona Girl.
She writes: “I
fi n d Rexona
Soap, used
regularly, en-
hances the
beauty of the
complexion and
makes the hair
soft and
glossy.”
Chocolates
1 l do like my Daddy—see
what he's brought me home!"
The Famous Red Box of Chocolates.
Mailed to you the day they are made.
Pr'ces: «
3/-, 5/6, 6/-, 10/-, 12/6,
20/- and 30/-
Post free in any address in Australia
OewzAi ttfiCCiiA
162-66 PITT STREET.
BRANCHES:
CR. GEORGE AND KING
STREETS;
CASTLEREAGH STREET
{Next Theatre Royal).
SYDNEY'.
Send for Catalogue illustraed
with reproductions of our con-
fectionery in colors.
mm
} [ c A;
V
w
mm
t.
m
W
1 : I
Reuben Ranzo.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
f MHE Captain on the quarter-deck,
I I think I hear him say
He’d rather kiss the chambermaid
Than smoke a Henry Clay.
Ranzo, boys, Ranzo !
Though Reuben Ranzo comes no more
Down from the Wild Goose nation
To leave upon Long Island shore
Ilis pay and reputation.
Many a heavy topsail-yard,
The charm of his old chanty,
Hoisted in days when work was hard
And pay but poor and scanty.
Many a deckhand, dead and still,
Many a seedy rover,
humbled the chorus with a will
The salt seas out and over:
Ranzo teas a New York tailor,
Ran away to join a whaler.
Ranzo, hoys, a-Ranzo!
Ranzo went to school on Monday,
learned to read and write hy Sunday.
Ranzo, hoys, a-Ranzo!
The proud Black Ball, the south-bound fleet,
The San Francisco clippers,
Bore overseas with flying feet
And roaring crews and skippers!
The pioneers, over roving sires,
Our mothers and relations,
Who lit by west and south the fires
Of two fraternal nations —
They’ve had their day: their tired bones rest
About the rolling oceans—
Aye, west and south, and south and west
Around the Seven Oceans!
heuben Ranzo was a Turk
Who took to navigation,
Left his wife to weep and work
Upon a big plantation.
Many a dark night when they woke,
And sudden storm was on them,
The name of Reuben they’d invoke
With all their weird upon them.
I hear them now, with tarry hands
The stiff sheets inward bringing;
I hear them yet in straining bands
On swept decks strident singing:
Reuben came from Sunday-school
To join a Yankee whaler.
Ranzo, hoys, a-Ranzo!
Reuben was a longshore fool
Who sighed to he a sailor.
Ranzo, hoys, a-Ranzo!
A myth, mayhap, a patron saint
Of careless old-time sailors.
Redeeming all the ancient taint
Of swabs and seaside tailors.
This hero of a lost sea-life
Was doomed to be a roamer;
He left behind a faithful wife,
And me—to be his Homer!
So here’s to Reuben o’er and o’er,
Son of the Wild Goose nation!
Here’s to the wild geese who no more
Sweat over navigation!
Here’s to the steamers—damn their hulls !
Killing the sea’s romances!
Here’s to the spindrift and the ’gulls,
The new life and its chances !
Aye, here’s to Reuben whom I met
Fresh from a seminary—
I hear the wool screws clanging yet
His story light and airy:
Ranzo was a Wapping tailor,
Ran away to be a sailor.
Ranzo, hoys, Ranzo!
Aye, here’s to Reuben who would wend
Just like a goose to water!
Oh. here’s to Reuben! In the end
He wed the Captain’s daughter!
Though Reuben Ranzo comes no more
Down from the Wild Goose nation,
His name is ’scribed for evermore
On scrolls of navigation.
VICTORIA.
E. J. BRADY.
The Cooboo.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
THEY had been mustering all day on
the wide plains of Murndoo station.
Over the red earth, black with iron-
stone pebbles, though mulga and curari
bush, across the ridges which make a blue
wall along the horizon. And the rosy,
garish light of sunset was on plains, hills,
moving cattle, men and horses.
Through red dust the bullocks mooched,
restless and scary still, a wild mob from the
hills. John Gray, in the rear with Arra,
the . boy who was his shadow; Wongana,
on the right with his gin, Rose; Frank, the
half-caste, on the left with Minni.
A steer breaking from the mob before
Rose, she wheeled and ivent after him.
Faint and wailing, a cry followed her, as
though her horse had stepped on and
crushed some small creature. But the steer
was getting away. Arra went after him,
stretched along his horse’s neck, rounded
the beast and rode him back to the mob,
sulky and blethering. The mob swayed;
it had broken three times that day, but was
settling to the road.
John Gray called: “Yienda (you) damn
fool. Rosey. Finish!”
The gin, on her slight, rough-haired
horse, pulled up scowling.
“Tell Meetchie, Thirty Mile, to-mor-
row,” John Gray said. “Miah, new moon.”
Rose slewed her horse away from the
mob of men and cattle. That wailing, thin
and hard as hair-string, moved with her.
“Minni!”
John Gray jerked his head towards Rose.
Minni’s bare heels struck her horse’s belly;
with a turn of the wrist she swung her
horse off from the mob, turned, leaned for-
ward, rising in her stirrups, and came up
with Rose.
Thin, dark figures on their wiry station- jj
bred horses, the gins rode into the haze of {
sunset towards the hills. The dull, dirty -j
blue of the trousers wrapped round their ;
legs was torn; their short, fairish hair
tousled by the wind. But the glitter and
tumult of Rose’s eyes—Minni looked away
from them.
At a little distance, when men and cattle
were a moving cloud of red dust, Rose’s
anger gushed after them.
“Koo!”
Fierce as the cry of a hawk flew her last
note of derision and defiance.
A far-away rattle of laughter drifted back
across the plains. The men had heard and
were laughing at her.
The women walked their horses across
country. Alone they would have been
afraid, as darkness coming up behind was
hovering near them, secreting itself among
the low, writhen trees and bushes. Afraid
of the evil spirits who wander over the plains
and stony ridges when the light of day is
withdrawn. But together they were not so
afraid. Twenty miles away, over there,
below that dent in the hills where Nyedee
Creek made a sandy bed for itself among
white-bodied gums, was Murndoo home-
stead and the uloo of their people.
There was no track; and in the first
darkness, which would be thick as wool
after the glow of sunset faded, only their
instinct would keep them moving in the
direction of the homestead and their own
low, round huts of bagging, rusty tin and
dead boughs.
Both were Wongana’s women: Rose, tall,
gaunt and masterful; Minni, younger, fat
and jolly. Rose had been a good stockman
in her day: one of the best. Minni did
not ride or track nearly as well as Rose. I
And yet, as they rode along, Minni pat-
tered complaisantly of how well she had
worked that day; of how she had flashed,
this way and that, heading-off breakaways,
dashing after them, turning them back to
the mob so smartly that John had said,
“Good man, Minni!” There was the white
bullock —he had rushed near the yards.
Had Rose seen the chestnut mare stumble
in a crab-hole and send Arra flying? But
Minni had chased the white bullock, chased
him for a couple of miles, and brought him
back to the yards. No doubt there would
be nammery for her and a new gina-ginu
when the men came in from the muster.
She pulled a pipe from her belt, shook
the ashes out, and with reins looped over
one arm stuffed the bowl with tobacco from
a tin tied to her belt. Stooping down, she
struck a match on her stirrup-iron, guarded
the flame to the pipe between her short,
white teeth, and smoked contentedly.
The scowl on Rose’s face deepened, dark-
ened. That thin, fretted wailing came from
her breast.
She unslung from her neck the rag rope
by which the baby had been held against
her body, and gave him a sagging breast to
suck. Holding him with one arm, she rode
slowly, her horse picking his way over the
rough, stony earth.
It had been a hard day. The gins were
mustering with the men at sunrise. Camped
at Nyedee well the night before, in order
to get a good start, they had been riding
through the timbered ridges all the morn-
ing, rounding up wild cows, calves and
young bullocks, and driving them down to
the yards at Nyedee, where John Gray
cut out the fats, left old Jimmy and a
couple of boys to brand calves, turn the
cows and calves back to the ridge again
while he took on the mob for trucking at
Meekathhrra. The bullocks were as wild
as birds —needed watching all day. And
all the time that small, whimpering bundle
against her breast had hampered Rose’s
movements.
There was nothing the gins liked better
than a muster, riding after cattle. And
they could ride, were quicker in their move-
ments, more alert than the men; sharper
at picking up tracks. They did not go
mustering very often nowadays when there
was work to do at the homestead. Since
John Gray had married, and there was a
woman on Murndoo, she found plenty of
washing, scrubbing and sweeping for the
gins to do; would not spare them often to
go after cattle. But John was short-handed.
He had said he must have Rose and Minni
to muster Nyedee. And all day her baby’s
crying had irritated Rose. The cooboo had
wailed and wailed as she rode with him
tied to her body.
The cooboo was responsible for the
wrong things she had done all day. Stupid
things. Rose was furious. The men had
yelled at her. Wongana, her man, black-
guarding her before everybody, had called
her “a hen who did not know where she
laid her eggs.” And John Gray, with his
“Yienda, damn fool, Rosey. Finish!” had
sent her home like a naughty child.
Now, here was Minni jabbering of the
tobacco she would get and the new gina-
gina. How pleased Wongana would be
with her! And the cooboo, wailing, wail-
ing. He wailed as he chewed Rose’s
empty breast, squirming against her; wailed
and gnawed.
She cried out with hurt and impatience.
Rage, irritated to madness, rushed through
her; rushed like waters coming down the
dry creek-beds after heavy rain. Rose
wrenched the cooboo from her breast and
flung him from her to the ground. There
was a crack as of twigs breaking.
Minni glanced aside. “Wiah!” she gasped
with widening eyes. But Rose rode on,
gazing ahead over the rosy, garish plains
and wall of the hills, darkening from blue
to purple and indigo.
(Continued on next page.)


m
ro
“i—j
-
m
<ji
Oh,
jN'S?
I
'III
3i2S
?!||
I 1
J
C ells a Story
Stop that backache!
Look to your kidneys!
When your kidneys are well again, take
WHY be a martyr to backache? Nine times
out of ten it is quite unnecessary. Back-
ache, in common with headaches, dizziness and
urinary disorder, sciatica, rheumatism, lumbago,
stone in the kidney, gravel, and dropsy, is frequently
due to weak kidney action. Don’t waste precious
time! So long as your kidneys allow impure blood to
circulate through the system, you cannot hope to get
well. Be quick to strengthen the kidney action by
using Doan s Backache Kidney Pills; they will not fail,
an occasional course of Doan s to keep them healthy and active.
A MAN’S TESTIMONY.
q . Mr - W - H. T|»tt, “Fairview,” Gannon Street, Tempe
Sydney, says: Off and on foy years I suffered a good deal
backache and kidney trouble. Sometimes my back used
to ache terribly, the pain being particularly severe when I
stooped. One day Doan’s Backache Kidney Pills were recom-
>fler f Lk° me ’ f° bO " Sl T ®° me and the y worked wonders.
. * akiap: a few oses 1 felt much better, so I continued
with the treatment for a few weeks, and I am glad to say
* „ d r e m 410 pain out m y back and made me feel
splendid Two years have elapsed since then, and I am still
mp G ie ’ J 3Ut 1 koep loan’s Backache Kidney Pills by
e, and take a dose or so whenever I feel a little off color
and they always do me good.” Color>
TCiH,I We rsn years , later ’ Mr - Trott says: “Doan’s Backache
Kidney Pills cured me of backache 14 years ago and T om
still free from this trying complaint.” 1
TWO SYDNEY
PEOPLE
CURED OF
BACKACHE
AND KIDNEY
TROUBLE.
A WOMAN’S TESTIMONY.
Mrs. Emily Osborne, 5 Queen Street, Petersham, Sydney,
says: “Some years ago I had a very bad attack of disordered
kidneys,, and as a result suffered agony from backache and
rheumatic pains all over my body. I was often so bad that I
could hardly get about the house, every movement giving me
increased pain. My rest at night was very disturbed, as it was
impossible for me to lie in one position for any length of time,
owing to the nagging pain in my back. My ankles and arms
swelled a good deal, and were very painful if I touched them.
I had no energy for anything, and wasl really far from well.
Doan’s Backache Kidney Pills wmre recommended to me, and
after taking a course of these grand Pills, I was completely
cured.”
Ten years later, Mrs. Osborne says: “Ten years have
elapsed since Doan’s Backache Kidney Pills cured me, and I
am still well, a fact that speaks volumes for this splendid
remedy.”
ŗ
DOAN'S
Backache
Kidney
ř
Price 2/9 per bottle, at
ftll Chemists and Stores,
or from Foster-McClellan
Co., 15 Hamilton Street,
Sydney.
When the women came into the station
kitchen, earth, hills and trees were dark;
the sky heavy with stars. Minni gave his
wife John’s message—that he would be
home with the new moon, in about a fort-
night.
Meetchie, as the blacks called Mrs. John
Gray, could not make out why the gins
were so stiff and quiet—why Rose stalked
scowling and sulky-fellow, sombre eyes just
glancing, and away again. Meetchie wanted
to ask about the muster; what sort of con-
dition the bullocks had on; how many
were on the road; if many calves had been
branded at Nyedee. But she knew them
too well to ask questions when they looked
like that.
Only when she had given them bread
and a tin of jam, cut off hunks of corned
beef for them, filled their billies with
strong black tea, put sugar in their empty
tins, and they were going off to the uloo,
she was surprised to see Rose without her
baby.
“Why, Rose,” she exclaimed, “where’s
the cooboof”
Rose stalked off into the night. Minni
glanced back with scared eyes, and fol-
lowed Rose.
In the dawn, when a cry, remote and
anguished, flew through the clear air, Meet-
chie wondered who was dead in the camp
by the creek. She remembered Rose: how
she had looked the night before. And the
cooboo —where was he?
Then she knew that it was Rose wail-
ing for her cooboo in the dawn; Rose
cutting herself with stones until her body
bled; Rose screaming in a fury of un-
availing grief.
KATHARINE SUSANNAH PRICHARD.
Goliath.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
EVEN in death Darby was formidable:
he looked Cyclopean as he lay upon
the bunk in the chief’s cabin glaring
upwards at us from his one good eye. We
had taken off his shirt and staunched the
flow of blood from his wound. His mas-
sive arms and chest gleamed brown in the
sunlight that streamed through the open
port. Staining his left side, just beneath
the ribs, was the : crimson puncture from
which his life had run.
Ahmed, the Indian who had murdered
him, stood sullenly near the door, his arms
tied behind his back. He was small, with
a hungry, fanatical sort of face, and it was
evident that neither remorse for his crime
nor fear of consequences was troubling him.
At times he gesticulated, pointing to the
nerveless giant across the room, while with
infinite patience the skipper, who had a
smattering of native tongues, tried to piece
together his confusing statements.
I don’t know why Darby should have
awed us to the last. But he did. We were
uneasy from the time he came aboard at
Calcutta, the only passenger on a tramp
steamer bound for Sydney. He was scarred,
with an evil, sombre face that might have
gazed upon all the iniquities of human exist-
ence. Nor was he amiable; and it was not
long before we found ourselves shrinking
from the scrutiny of his steel-blue eyes that
seemed to strip us, and were ruthless and
fierce. Each eye had a different expression,
the left having an uncanny knack of star-
ing through you without blinking; it was
made of glass, an odd mixture of vacancy
and menace.
We took it without asking questions that
he had been everywhere and had seen
everything under the sun. It was also evi-
dent, that he was a man without settled
occupation, an adventurer flitting from land
to land engaged in sinister enterprises. His
nationality was obscure; he might have
been Australian, American or even Rus-
sian. We didn’t care to ask.
Even now, with the grim evidence before
me, I found it difficult to think of Darby
as dead. He had been so vital, so pre-
datory a figure, possessing our imagination
every minute of the day. Hard to think
of him as stilled, with that glass-eye burn-
ing through us as if all the malignancy
of the man were pouring through it in a
last desperate endeavor! The eye seemed to
settle upon every one of us, captain and mate
and engineer in. turn. We were uneasy.
Only the Indian was undaunted. He con-
tinued to point at Darby and mutter
crazily.
Summers, our captain, turned to us,
scratching his face, a trick of his when he
was puzzled. He indicated the native.
( “He says that Darby stole a pearl of his.
Seems to have been pretty valuable. Darby
got it at Thursday Island. Killed this chap’s
mate, he tells me.”
We looked with curiosity at the frail
human who had had the temerity to stalk
Darby across two oceans. The role of
avenger fell incongruously on him. There
was nothing impressive about his appear-
ance, absolutely nothing to indicate the
fierce, unrelenting purpose he had shown.
“Darby went to Calcutta from Singa-
pore,” I said.
“He told you that?”
“Yes.”
Summers turned to us with the gravity
of a man who deals in facts. “Well, it’s only
a step from Thursday to Singapore.”
That seemed to settle it. The thing was
feasible enough. Darby had stolen the
pearl. Committed murder as well. None
of us was surprised, or even thought to
doubt the' Indian’s statement.
A- few steps took Summers across the
room; he touched Darby’s trouser-pockets
with his fingers. “Nothing there.”
It remained now to find the pearl, and
we knew at once that with a man of Darby’s
resource the task would not be simple. It
was easy to imagine his devious mind dis-
covering a hiding-place in some remote por-
tion of his cabin. The pearl might be on
him, not lying carelessly in a pocket, but
ingeniously concealed in the lining of a
coat, or even secreted in a possible false
heel to his boot.
And all the time, while we speculated,
planning a course of action, Darby watched
us, inscrutably, with a sort of grin, as if
a little amused at our hopes to ferret out
the dark secrets of his mind.
“We’ll ransack his cabin,” said Summers.
“If he did take the pearl it is bound to be
there. This is the sort of thing you’d
expect him to be mixed up with.”
We nodded in agreement.
He threw a coat over Darby’s naked
chest. “Reminds me of David killing
Goliath. Darby here might easily be
Goliath.”
“Pretty lousy-looking David!” Smith, the
first mate, grunted.
At first it was our intention to bring the
body on to Fremantle, the first port of call,
but we were a week out, and Summers de-
cided that it was best to get the business
over. It was not as if Ahmed had any de-
fence to offer; he admitted the crime. His
only concern was the recovery of the pearl.
The pearl! How we searched for it, turn-
ing inside-out, you might say, every pocket
of the ship! We went through every article
of his clothing, ripped open the linings,
pried into all the corners of his cabin. There
was a velvet bag in his case, and when we
opened it there were revealed gems of
every description, rubies, sapphires, dia-
monds, even pearls.
We brought in Ahmed. His eyes lit up
eagerly as he dipped his fingers into the
riot of blue and red and cream. Though
stones of minor value, each had a beauty
of its own; they lay upon a dark cloth,
siren-like in their attraction, exquisite but
cold, luring men to death, to passion and
crime.
The Indian turned away with a quick
gesture, muttering, his disappointment very
evident.
“Not his,” translated Summers. “His was
better,” he says. “Much bigger and whiter.”
Smith was staring at .the jewels, his eye
caught by the gleam of a big ruby. “I’ve
a hunch we won’t see it again,” he said.
But we didn’t give up the search at that
stage. Darby had been in the habit of
wandering aft, and upon the bridge, and
we examined closely those' quarters of the
ship in case the pearl was hidden there.
Then it occurred to us, for the first time,
to doubt Ahmed’s story, to wonder whether
he had not been actuated by an entirely
different motive. As Darby was a jewel
thief—we had established that from 1
pa per s-it ( was more than possible th-‘
Ahmed, knowing his practices, had hunm
him to steal his treasures. As the hou-
went by and our search for the pearl vielrl'
no result, we inclined more and moreY
this theory. The Indian denied it vehe'
ently, but in the continued absence of tin
pearl his statements did not carry the sam
conviction.
We gathered aft, practically the whole
ship s company, very solemn, a little awed
m the presence of one whose mode of life
and of death, set him apart from the ord
nary run of men. The body was placed on
two planks nailed together, and at the end
stood two seamen ready at the command
to tilt up the contrivance. Twenty of in-
formed a semi-circle on the deck, Captain
Summers standing a little aside to say a
few words of prayer. Although not a reli-
gious man, the skipper had his profound
moments.
Owing to a shortage of canvas, part o:
Darby’s head was visible; we had wrapped
his body in a blanket, then round and round
with sail, the last few stitches showing just
above the mouth. That same creepy im-
pression of life was imparted by the glass-
eye, which seemed to catch the sun, spark-
ling evilly. Below, the sea was green, and
from time to time it licked at the sides as
if impatient. The decks were none too
steady. Away up in the lookout a seaman
stared at the curious scene.
The prayer over, Captain Summers gave
the word. The planks were tilted. Darin
did not move. They were tilted higher
Still, he hung there, tenaciously, as if, so it
seemed to me, afraid of what might be in
store for him when away from human sight.
Summers cursed audibly; the thing was
getting on his nerves, playing upon deep-
rooted superstitions. The rest of us were
still, in tense silence. Smith stepped for-
ward, and at his command the planks were
lowered. Except that the boards were rough,
be could perceive no reason why the body
did not start.
Then, horribly, we saw Darby’s eye move
It protruded from his head, sticking out like
the eyes of crabs. We saw it roll, then fall
right away from the socket. Smith, in a
panic, gave the head a sharp push. It
started forward, slowly, unwillingly. As it
did something fell away from the eye-socket,
something that was round and white. It was
lustrous, creamy. It spun down the chute
before our eyes.
Darby followed, with a sort of rush, the
canvas around him rustling against the
planks. It; was the only sound. He hit
the water heavily.
Someone gasped aloud. Smith said phleg-
matically : “There goes the pearl.”
V. C. WRIGHT


r
WESTINGHOUSE
Morse Silent Rocker-Joint
CHAIN DRIVES
Ensure minimum wear—
Maximum life and highest
efficiency,,
Chains in stock-—wheels manu-
factured to suit requirements.
Write for particulars
and Booklet BM 414,
THE WESTINGHOUSE BRAKE CO.
OF AUSTRALASIA LTD.,
Queensland Agents—HOLMES « CHTJKCH, Brisbane. ~f ro T m e uritrc
jf.Z Office—93-107 Featherston Street, Wellington. CONCORD WES I, N. o. WAL/Htf.
Victorian Office—99 Queen Street, Melbourne. TTn Adelaide SA
South Australian Agents; Messrs. ELDER. SMITH * CO., LID., Adela , •
NON-PLUS-ULTRA
CORKBOARD
, for' "
Cold Storage Insulation.
Compressed Cork Sheets, Standard Size 3ft. x Ift.,
in various thicknesses.
Large stocks available for immediate delivery.
J. WILDRIDGE S SINCLAIR, LTD.,
87 PITT STREET, SYDNEY,
And at Melbourne, Brisbane, Perth and Auckland (N.Z.).
A
&
Host ffoJkrooASai/s -
“I brew my sauce in the
good old fashioned way.
Aye, and then I mature it
like an old wine.”
mt
SAUCE
Nature's Loving Proxy—
OKe
Watchful Mother
and watchful mothers are
cautious mothers, who
take risks v?ifh “His Rosal
Highness”— the babj?—but
keep him health 3) and bomyp
b}> giving small doses daity
of
ŕ
ŗ
ř
r
KRUSE’S .
FliitdM® 3B
Bottled in three sizes.
CTKis safe and reliable family I
Medicine minimises {be dis-
tress caused b$ teefking and
vaccination, besides checking
{be development of o{ber
ailments that retard the
progress of young children.
Cooling in Summer —Reliable Alwayt
After 60 years KRUSE’S
Fluid Magnesia is more
popular {Kan ever, because
it does all {Hat is claimed
for it —and more.
See {Hat 2?ou get {he genuine
Kruse’s, with our name,
Felton, Grim wade & Co,
Ps. Ltd., on the label.
A Pill is the host
form of medicine
Handy to use - easy to take
If taken regularly
The best form of medicine
Provided it’s a good pill
BEECHAM’S PILES are
The tried and trusted remedy
Of countless thousands
Contain finest ingredients
Requisite for the
Toning and strengthening of *
Stomach, liver and bowels
Beecham’s Pills
Remove poisons from system
Prevent biliousness
Indigestion, sick headache
And evils which follow
Constipation.
Q. the thmf
mm
!E ENGINES'
ŕ
ŗ
ř
All Paris Stand-
ard and Inter-
changeable.
American Bosch
Magnetos - im-
pulse coupling.
> ' l '
3 to 100 H. P. (
1 to 6 cylinders,
4-cycla Engines.
Built with the greatest care so
that only ordinary care is required to
keep them in perfect running order—
Kermath Marine Engines are first in
service, economy, and dependability.
HALL BROS., LTD.,
Careening Cove (foot of Willough.by St.),
Milson’s Point, North Sydney, N.S.W.
XERMATH MANUFACTURING CO.
Detroit, Michigan, U. S. A.
Cable Address, Kermath
r
e ►
c
\
\
Neatly brushed
HAIR
adds much to a man’s personal
appearance. Anzora will keep your
hair tidy all day. It is clean, easy
to use and delicately perfumed.
Anzora Cream for greasy scalps,
Anzora Viola for dry scalps.
Sold by chemists, hairdressers,
and stores, or from our agents.
REFUSE ALL SUBSTITUTES
MASTERS THE HAIR
Agents for Australia: LYALL, WILLIS & CO., LTD.
Melbourne. .Baldwin & Slattery Pty., Adelaide Arthur Glover
Ltd. Brisbane Gregory & Collins.
Sydney........ Jones & Joseph, Ltd. Perth............L. M. Cullen & Co.
Manufactured by
ANZOR A PERFUMERY CO., LTD., Willesden Lane, London, ENGLAND.
HARBOR TOURIST TRIPS
Weather and other circumstances permitting.
From Fort Macquarie at 3 0.15 a.m. and 2.15 p.m.
EVERY TUESDAY AND EVERY THURSDAY.
Tares: All-day, 2/6; Half-day, 1/6. Children, 1/- and fid.
Luncheon by reservation at Clifton Gardens Hotel. Afternoon Tea on Board.
SPECIAL TRIP EVERY SUNDAY « 3 p.„.. r0m N0. 6 JETTY, CIRCULAR QUAY
Adults, 1/6. Children, 6d. . , •
Tels.: 86276 (4 lines). Sydney Ferries, Ltd.
asi


Full
and no delau
in shearin*
i|Ou insta
■V-'
A
O
%
. ,1
E;B
4>t<,*a»u
vv : » >
A
A
Two things govern a shearing machine’s
worth—its design, its construction. In both
these essentials the Lister can offer a unique
guarantee of efficiency and reliability.
'
LISTER DESIGN has been evolved by men who
pioneered the use and maintenance of shearing machines ever
since these were introduced to the world. They are still
concerned with the continued improvement of Lister Machines.
LISTER CONSTRUCTION is in the hands of R. A. Lister
& Co., Ltd., whose products unfailingly uphold the world-wide
prestige of British engineers. Constant touch is maintained by
the Australian distributors with the factory in order that the
exacting standards set for the Lister Shear will be maintained
in every detail.
In shearing efficiency the Lister stands second to none:
in reliability and ease of upkeep the Lister has proved
superiority. No machine provides as many low-cost replace-
ments arid no machine allows of as many vital repairs being
carried out in the shed as the Lister.
Australian-designed, British-built, it is YOUR best buy
for the next shearing. Let the agent in your State quote your
installation. *
Dangar, Gedye & Co., Ltd.,
Young Street, SYDNEY, N.S.W.
Winchcombe, Carson, Ltd.,
Eagle Street, BRISBANE, Q’LAND.
Mitchell & Co. Pty., Ltd.,
West Footscray, Melbourne, Vic.
Clutterbuck Bros. (Adel.), Ltd.,
Bindley Street, Adelaide, S.A.
Malloch Bros.,
William Street, PERTH, W.A.
A. G. Webster & Sons, Ltd.,
HOBART, TAS.
Levin & Co., Ltd.,
WELLINGTON, N.Z.
RAUSTEReC? II?
DURSUEY* * E N C LAN D
